WASHINGTON — The dispute over Hillary Clinton’s email practices now threatens to shadow her for the rest of the presidential campaign after the disclosure on Monday that the F.B.I. collected nearly 15,000 new emails in its investigation of her and a federal judge’s order that the State Department accelerate the documents’ release.
华盛顿——周一，有消息透露，联邦调查局(F.B.I.)在对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的调查中搜集了近1.5万封新邮件，一名联邦法官命令国务院加快公布这些文档的步伐。有关她邮件操作的争议，如今有可能给她剩下的总统竞选活动蒙上一层阴影。
As a result, thousands of emails that Mrs. Clinton did not voluntarily turn over to the State Department last year could be released just weeks before the election in November. The order, by Judge James E. Boasberg of Federal District Court, came the same day a conservative watchdog group separately released hundreds of emails from one of Mrs. Clinton’s closest aides, Huma Abedin, which put a new focus on the sometimes awkward ties between the Clinton Foundation and the State Department.
这样一来，或许在距离11月选举短短几周时，那些上万封克林顿去年没有主动提交给国务院的邮件会被公之于众。这项法庭令由联邦地区法院法官詹姆斯·E·博斯伯格(James E. Boasberg)下达。就在同一天，一家保守派监督团体另外公布了克林顿的亲信胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)的数百封邮件。这批邮件又一次将聚光灯导向了克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)与国务院之间有时会令人不安的联系上。
The F.B.I. discovered the roughly 14,900 emails by scouring Mrs. Clinton’s server and the computer archives of government officials with whom she corresponded. In late July, it turned them over to the State Department, which now must set a timetable for their release, according to Judge Boasberg’s order.
通过仔细排查克林顿的服务器及她联络的政府官员的电脑存档文件，联邦调查局发现了大约1.49万封邮件。今年7月底，联邦调查局将它们转交给了国务院。根据博斯伯格法官的命令，国务院当下必须为公布这些邮件定下时间表。
While the emails were not in the original trove of 55,000 pages that Mrs. Clinton’s lawyers handed to the State Department last year, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said in July that he did not believe they had been “intentionally deleted.” Still, he characterized Mrs. Clinton’s handling of classified information during her years at the State Department as “extremely careless.”
尽管这批邮件并不在克林顿的律师去年提交给国务院的那5.5万页文档之列，但联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)在今年7月表示，他并不认为它们是被“故意删除”的。不过，他还是将克林顿在国务院供职期间处理机密信息的方式定性为“极其大意”。
Under the likely timetable, the soonest the new emails would be released is October. The State Department released the original emails in monthly installments over nearly a year, through February, though it missed several court-ordered deadlines as its staff and other agencies scrutinized the documents for classified information.
依照可能的时间表，这批新邮件最早会在10月公之于众。国务院公布最初那些邮件的方式是每月一批，花了近一年时间，到今年2月结束。不过，国务院的员工及其他一些机构对文档进行了梳理，以剔除保密信息，因此有几次错过了法院规定的期限。
Despite Mr. Comey’s conclusion that Mrs. Clinton mishandled classified information, he said last month that the F.B.I. would not recommend criminal charges against her, which finally seemed to ease the threat that her handling of emails has posed to her presidential campaign. But the prospect of further disclosures from Mrs. Clinton’s emails suggests that the issue will not be put to rest so easily.
尽管科米做出了克林顿处理机密信息不当的结论，但他在上月宣布，联邦调查局不建议对她进行刑事指控。这似乎终于缓解了她处理邮件的方式对其总统竞选带来的威胁。然而，眼下出现的进一步公布克林顿邮件的前景表明，这个问题并不会轻易消失。
“Hillary Clinton seems incapable of telling the truth,” the chairman of the Republican National Committee, Reince Priebus, said in a statement. “The process for reviewing these emails needs to be expedited, public disclosure should begin before early voting starts, and the emails in question should be released in full before Election Day.”
“希拉里·克林顿似乎不会说实话，”共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)主席雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)发表声明称。“需要加快审核这些邮件的进程，应该在提前投票开始之前启动公众披露工作，还应该在选举日之前悉数公布相关邮件。”
The Clinton campaign said Mrs. Clinton had turned over all the work-related emails she had in her possession in 2014 to the State Department. “We are not sure what additional materials the Justice Department may have located,” said the campaign’s spokesman, Brian Fallon. “But if the State Department determines any of them to be work-related, then obviously we support those documents being released publicly as well.”
克林顿的竞选团队则表示，她已将2014年掌握的所有与工作相关的邮件提交给国务院。“我们并不确定司法部可能找到了什么额外资料，”竞选团队的发言人布赖恩·法伦(Brian Fallon)称。“不过，假如国务院认定其中有任何内容与工作相关，那么显然我们也会支持将这些文档公之于众。”
A State Department spokesman, Mark C. Toner, said it would have to review the documents to determine which were personal or work-related, and whether any duplicated emails had already been released in response to lawsuits brought by the conservative watchdog group, Judicial Watch, under the Freedom of Information Act.
国务院发言人马克·C·托纳(Mark C. Toner)称，国务院需要审阅这些文档，以便确定哪些为私人邮件、哪些与工作有关。此前保守派监督团体司法观察(Judicial Watch)援引《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information Act)提起了诉讼，国务院还需确定这些邮件是否与因该诉讼而公布的邮件有重复。
The group said that the 725 pages of documents it released Monday demonstrated efforts by the Clinton family foundation to leverage its influence with Mrs. Clinton. The emails, drawn from Ms. Abedin, included an appeal by Douglas Band, a Clinton Foundation executive, for Mrs. Clinton to meet with Bahrain’s crown prince, whose family had contributed millions of dollars to the foundation.
司法观察称，他们周一公开的725页文档证明，克林顿家族的基金会试图利用它对克林顿的影响。这些邮件从阿贝丁那里取得，其中包括克林顿基金会的高管道格拉斯·班德(Douglas Band)发出的请求，想让克林顿与巴林的王储会面。王储的家族给克林顿基金会捐赠了大笔资金。
“Good friend of ours,” Mr. Band wrote.
“我们的好朋友，”班德写道。
Ms. Abedin, after expressing Mrs. Clinton’s reluctance to schedule a meeting “until she knows how she will feel,” then wrote back to Mr. Band to offer the crown prince an appointment the next morning. She encouraged Mr. Band to let the prince know, “if you see him,” though she said the State Department had also contacted him through official channels.
阿贝丁先是转达了克林顿不那么情愿安排会面，“要等到她弄清自己的想法”，然后回复给班德，提出可以第二天上午会见王储。她鼓励班德“若是见到”王储便可让他知晓此事，尽管她表示国务院也会通过官方渠道与他取得联系。
But Ms. Abedin expressed qualms when Mr. Band appealed to her to help arrange an interview in the British Embassy to get a visa for a member of the Wolverhampton Football Club, who had a criminal charge against him. Mr. Band was helping Casey Wasserman, a sports marketing executive who had donated money to the Clinton Foundation. Mr. Wasserman is a co-chairman of a fund-raiser Mrs. Clinton will attend this week in Beverly Hills, Calif.
不过，当班德请求她帮助在英国大使馆安排面签，好让伍尔弗汉普顿足球俱乐部(Wolverhampton Football Club)一名背负刑事指控的成员获得签证时，阿贝丁表达了自己的不安。班德是在帮助体育营销高管凯西·瓦瑟曼(Casey Wasserman)，此人曾给克林顿基金会捐款。瓦瑟曼是一场筹款活动的联合举办人，克林顿本周将前往加州贝弗利山庄(Beverly Hills)出席该活动。
“I get this now, makes me nervous to get involved but I’ll ask,” Ms. Abedin wrote.
“我知道了。参与这样的事，让我感到不安。不过我会问问看的，”阿贝丁当时写道。
“Then don’t,” Mr. Band replied.
“那就算了，”班德回复。
Judicial Watch’s president, Tom Fitton, said the emails included 20 exchanges with Mrs. Clinton herself that were not among those her lawyers turned over to the State Department. The emails, he said, showed how Ms. Abedin served as a conduit between the department and the Clinton Foundation, citing the exchange over the crown prince’s meeting.
司法观察组织负责人汤姆·菲顿(Tom Fitton)表示，其中有20封是与克林顿本人的邮件往来，它们没有出现在她的律师向国务院提交的邮件中。他表示，这些邮件显示出阿贝丁充当了国务院和克林顿基金会之间的通道，指出就与巴林王储会面一事进行的邮件沟通就是证明。
“It is hard to tell where the State Department ended and where the Clinton Foundation began,” he said. “They were working hand in glove.”
“很难断定国务院和克林顿基金会之间的边界在哪里，”他说。“它们在进行紧密无间的合作。”
Under the process set by Judge Boasberg on Monday, the State Department will review the new emails and documents and present the court with a schedule for releasing them. Mr. Fitton said that process could begin in October, or could be delayed as the department reviews which are personal and which are work-related.
依照博斯伯格法官周一设定的程序，国务院将对新提交的邮件和文件进行评估，然后给法庭一个公布邮件的时间表。菲顿表示，邮件可能会从10月开始公布，也可能被推迟，因为国务院需要评估哪些是私人邮件，哪些与工作有关。
“The question is how many of those are truly personal,” he said.
“问题是其中有多少真的是私人的，”他说。
Separately, a prominent House Republican pressed the F.B.I. on Monday to explain why it had redacted emails and summaries of its interview with Mrs. Clinton, which it turned over to Congress last week.
此外，一位地位显赫的共和党众议员周一向联邦调查局施压，要其解释为何要对邮件及其询问克林顿的摘要进行涂黑。该机构上周将这些材料提交给了国会。
Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah and chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, said in an interview that nearly half the material was redacted, including “a lot of redactions for things that aren’t warranted.” He also said there were inconsistencies in the two copies of the documents that the F.B.I. submitted to Congress.
犹他州共和党众议员、众议院监管和政府改革委员会(House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform)主席贾森·沙费特兹(Jason Chaffetz)在接受采访时表示，联邦调查局提交的材料有近一半经过了涂黑，包括“对许多没有被授权的东西进行涂黑”。他还表示，联邦调查局提交给国会的两个文件副本存在不一致的地方。
In a letter to Mr. Comey on Monday, Mr. Chaffetz demanded that the F.B.I. explain its legal basis for the redactions and why the two copies were inconsistent. He said the F.B.I. should submit an unclassified version of its report, which presumably could be made public.
沙费特兹在周一给科米写了一封信，要求联邦调查局提供对文件做出涂黑的法律依据，并解释为何两个副本不一致。他表示，联邦调查局应该提交一份非机密版本的报告，这样一个版本应该是可以公开的。