WASHINGTON — If Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew was not aware that Americans have strong opinions about what, and who, is in their wallets, he certainly is now.
华盛顿——如果说财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)此前并不清楚美国人有多在意自己兜里的钞票上印着什么，现在他肯定知道了。
Several million people have responded since Lew issued an invitation to the public in June to help redesign the nation's cash. His question: Which woman from American history should be chosen as the first on paper currency since Martha Washington briefly graced the $1 silver certificate in the late 19th century?
自从卢去年6月向公众发出邀请，要他们帮忙重新设计美国的纸币之后，千百万美国人予以响应。他提出的问题是：应该选谁作为美国历史上第一个出现在该国纸币上的女性？此前只有玛莎·华盛顿(Martha Washington)的头像曾在19世纪晚期短暂地装点过1美元银币券。
The outpouring of responses about the forthcoming redesign of the $10 bill has surprised administration officials both by its numbers and by the volume of unanticipated complaints, forcing Lew to miss his self-imposed December deadline for an announcement and leaving unclear when he will decide.
美国公众对10美元纸币即将重新设计发行一事的反应之热烈，让美国政府官员大吃一惊，不管是反馈的数量，还是抱怨言论之多，都超出了他们的预期，这迫使卢撤销了原定于去年12月发行新版纸币的决定，并且没有确定新的期限。
“I think it took us all by surprise just how much interest there really was,” Rosie Rios, the treasurer of the United States, said in an interview.
“我们真没想到人们对这件事会有这么大的兴趣，”美国财政部出纳局长罗茜·里奥斯(Rosie Rios)在接受采访时说。
Lew intended to inspire a national conversation about women's contributions to the nation and to generate ideas for new symbols to reflect democracy on currency — “to make a statement about who we are and what we stand for,” as he said.
卢原先打算掀起一场有关女性对美国的贡献的全国大讨论，产生一些关于民主新象征的想法，用在货币上——就像他说的，“做一个有关我们是谁，我们代表什么的声明。”
What he got instead was something of a tempest that included reflections about the worth of women and about the relative merits of two particular men, Alexander Hamilton, a founding father, and President Andrew Jackson, whose portraits are on the $10 and $20 notes. The comments showed Jackson to be as reviled as Hamilton is revered, reviving an argument that the $20 bill should be redesigned before the $10.
结果，他引来一场暴风雨般的争论，其中既包含有关女性价值的思考，也包括对两名男性历史人物优劣衡量，他们一个是美国开国元勋亚历山大·汉密尔顿(Alexander Hamilton)，另一个是头像被印在10美元和20美元纸币上的安德鲁·杰克逊(Andrew Jackson)总统。这些评论显示出，人们对汉密尔顿有多崇敬，就对杰克逊有多不满，由此再度挑起那个旧话题，即在对10美元纸币进行重新设计之前，应该先把20美元纸币换了。
All of this simmers as Lew is preoccupied with more typical matters for a Treasury secretary. In the last week he was in Puerto Rico to deal with its debt crisis, then in Davos, Switzerland, for the annual World Economic Forum.
在卢忙于其他更典型的财政部事务时，人们的这种情绪也在慢慢发酵。上周，他在波多黎各处理该国的债务危机，之后又去瑞士的达沃斯参加一年一度的世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)。
Yet the issue of how the $10 bill looks could well be the one for which he is best remembered.
但是，10美元纸币上应该印谁的头像这件事，却很可能会成为他以后被历史铭记的原因。
By law, the honoree must be dead. Surveys from advocacy groups and social media postings suggest that the contenders include abolitionist Harriet Tubman; suffragist Susan B. Anthony; civil rights pioneer Rosa Parks; and Eleanor Roosevelt, the reformist first lady, who was a member of the first U.S. delegation to the United Nations.
按照美国法律，被选中将头像印上纸币的人，必须是已经去世的。多个倡导组织进行的调查问卷和多个社交媒体上的意见显示，目前主要的被提名人物包括废奴主义者哈丽雅特·塔布曼(Harriet Tubman)；主张扩大妇女参政权利的苏珊·B·安东尼(Susan B. Anthony)；民权运动先锋罗莎·帕克斯(Rosa Parks)；还有美国驻联合国首批代表之一、主张改革的第一夫人埃莉诺·罗斯福(Eleanor Roosevelt)。
The problem for the critics is not the administration's idea of choosing a woman — with the exception of a few respondents, like the man who posted on Twitter that he would demand “two fives” if ever handed a 10 featuring a woman. Rather, the common gripe is that the $20 bill was not chosen instead of the $10 bill for a woman's portrait.
批评者的意见不在于政府有意将一名女性的头像印在纸币上——有少数回应者除外，比如有一名男子在Twitter上说，如果有人给递给他一张印着女性头像的10美元纸币，他会要求对方换成“两张5美元纸币”。相反，比较常见的抱怨是，政府没有选择将20美元纸币换成女性人物头像，而是选择了10美元纸币。
To the bureaucrats, the choice of the 10 was natural and justifiable. For security reasons, the $10 bill was recommended for revision in 2012 by the Advanced Counterfeit Deterrence committee that is led by Rios and has representatives from the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the Secret Service and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
对于政府官员来说，选择替换10美元纸币是一个比较自然而且有理有据的选择。出于安全因素考虑，高级防伪指导委员会(Advanced Counterfeit Deterrence)在2012年就曾建议重新设计10美元纸币，该委员会由里奥斯领导，其成员有来自财政部、美联储(Federal Reserve)、特勤局(Secret Service)和铸印局(Bureau of Engraving and Printing)的代表。
So the $10 note became the vehicle for an administration eager to make a historic statement about women before President Barack Obama leaves office. Despite the complaints, officials say, they cannot switch bills.
因此，对急切地想在贝拉克·奥巴马总统离任前发表一通有关女性的历史性表述的联邦政府来说，10美元的纸币成了一种载体。官员称，尽管民众有怨言，但他们无法更换至20美元纸币。
Yet they might have better anticipated the blowback, critics say.
但批评人士称，官员们本应对民众的反馈有更好的准备。
Even before Lew announced last summer that a woman would be on the $10 bill, a group called Women On 20s encouraged Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., and others in Congress to introduce legislation calling for a woman's portrait on the 20. The National Organization for Women got behind the campaign, according to Terry O'Neill, president of the group.
其实在卢去年夏天宣布10美元的纸币上将出现一名女性的头像之前，一个名为“20美元纸币上的女性”(Women On 20s)的团体便鼓励新罕布什尔州民主党参议员珍妮·沙欣(Jeanne Shaheen)和其他国会议员提出法案，要求把女性头像印在20美元的纸币上。据该团体的负责人特里·奥尼尔(Terry O'Neill)称，相关行动得到了全国妇女组织(National Organization for Women)的支持。
Barbara Ortiz Howard, the founder of Women On 20s, was at Lew's announcement in June. “They were all excited with their plan, and we had some cautions,” she said. “We thought there might be some issues with it — like the fact that it's not the 20.”
卢在6月宣布相关计划时，“20美元纸币上的女性”创始人芭芭拉·奥尔蒂斯·霍华德(Barbara Ortiz Howard)就在现场。“他们都对自己的计划激动不已，但我们持谨慎态度，”她说。“我们觉得这件事可能存在一些问题，比如要重新设计的不是20美元面值的纸币这一点。”
The $20 bill is more numerous by far than the $10 note, and the common currency of the ubiquitous ATM. For a woman to be put on the $10 note instead suggests women are of lesser worth, some people complained. Several of those critics, however, said wryly that the lesser note would aptly symbolize that women still earn less than men on average.
面值为20美元的纸币在数量上远比10美元纸币多，是无处不在的自动取款机上使用的通用货币。一些人抱怨说，把女性头像印在10美元而不是20美元的纸币上表明，女性的价值较小。但其中几名批评人士挖苦地说，印有女性头像的纸币面值更小这一点，恰如其分地象征着女性薪资平均仍不及男性的现实情况。
But the bigger issue turned out to be Hamilton versus Jackson. Many respondents asked: Why displace Hamilton, the first Treasury secretary and the architect of the American financial system, rather than eject Jackson from the $20 bill given his record of violence against Native Americans and opposition to national banking?
但更重要的问题被证明是汉密尔顿与杰克逊之间的对比。很多受访者问道：考虑到杰克逊对美国原住民采取暴力手段并反对建立全国性的银行业的历史，为什么不把他的头像从20美元的纸币上去掉，而是要换下首任财长、美国财政制度的缔造者汉密尔顿的头像？
Treasury's initial assurance that Hamilton would somehow remain on the $10 bill, presumably as a secondary figure, only provoked more objections. “If she is worthy of being on a bill, she is worthy of not sharing it,” a woman wrote on The New York Times' Facebook page.
财政部起初保证，汉密尔顿的头像会以某种形式留在10美元的纸币上，大概是作为次要人物。不料此举引发了更多反对。“如果有资格出现在纸币上，她就有资格单独出现，”一名女子在《纽约时报》的Facebook页面上写道。
Women On 20s has proposed a compromise, supported by NOW, to keep Hamilton and change the opposite side of the $10 bill, replacing the image of the Treasury building with a vignette of nearly a dozen female historical figures.
“20美元纸币上的女性”提议让一步，保留汉密尔顿的头像，改变10美元纸币的背面，用十余名女性历史人物组成的图案取代财政部大楼的图像。
“That's not in lieu of having the prime territory, which is the portrait side,” Howard said. A woman's portrait could replace Jackson's the next time the $20 note is redesigned, she said.
“不是替代主要区域，主要区域仍是有头像的一面，”霍华德说。她表示，可以下次重新设计20美元的纸币时，再用女性头像替代杰克逊的头像。
Treasury officials continue to promote the $10 redesign, however. Besides relying on social media, emails and letters, Lew and Rios have held town hall meetings around the country and round tables with interested groups, including historians. Rios has mingled among tourists at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing's “money factories” here and in Fort Worth, Texas, soliciting opinions from scores at a time.
但财政部的官员依然倡导重新设计10美元纸币。除依靠社交媒体、电子邮件和信件外，卢和里奥斯还在全国各地举行公民集会，并和包括历史专家在内的利益群体举行圆桌会议。此外，里奥斯还和参观铸币局(Bureau of Engraving and Printing)设在这里和德克萨斯州福特沃斯的造币厂的游客交谈，以征求民众的意见。