HANCOCK, MASS.
马萨诸塞，汉考克(HANCOCK, MASS.)
WHAT: A contemporary with five bedrooms and three bathrooms
房源：一座现代住宅，五卧三卫
HOW MUCH: $1,100,000
房价：110万美元（约合人民币720万元）
SIZE: 5,363 square feet
面积：5363平方英尺（约合498平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $205
单位面积房价：每平方英尺205美元（每平方米约合人民币14911元）
SETTING: This contemporary sits on top of nearly 27 acres overlooking the countryside and mountains, three and a half miles from Jiminy Peak ski resort. The property backs up to conservation land; the area is quiet and rural. Hancock has about 720 residents and is on the Massachusetts-New York border. Shopping, theater, museums and other amenities are in the Berkshires towns of Pittsfield and Williamstown, Mass., both within 15 miles.
周边环境：这座现代住宅占地近27英亩（约合11公顷），俯瞰乡村和山区，距离吉米尼峰(Jiminy Peak)滑雪度假村3.5英里（约合5.6公里）。此房产背倚保育用地；该地区宁静，富有农村气息。汉考克大约有720名居民，地处马萨诸塞州与纽约州的边界。商场、剧院、博物馆和其他设施位于马萨诸塞州伯克郡的皮茨菲尔德(Pittsfield)和威廉姆斯敦(Williamstown)，二镇都在15英里（约合24公里）的范围内。
INDOORS: The three-story house was built in 2005 by the original owner, a carpenter, using locally milled wood. It was updated over the past five years. The foyer opens to a great room that takes up the entire first floor, with walnut floors, a wide brick fireplace and chestnut ceiling beams salvaged from an old mill. Track lighting was designed to highlight artwork. The living room gives way to a den. Walls of glass throughout the house face the countryside, while decks and sunrooms double as heat sinks and sources of passive solar energy.
室内装潢：这座三层住宅由原业主建于2005年，原业主是木匠，建房时采用的是当地加工的木材。此住宅在过去五年内有过翻新。门厅通向一个大房间，大房间占据了整个一楼，铺设了胡桃木地板，配备了宽敞的砖砌壁炉，采用了栗木天花板横梁，横梁是从一个旧磨坊回收利用的。导轨灯具的设计，是为了突出艺术品。客厅旁边是一间私室。整间屋子的玻璃幕墙面朝乡野景观，露台和太阳房既能起到散热板作用，又是被动式太阳能的来源。
The kitchen is organized around a central island with a five-burner BlueStar cooktop. Other appliances include a Sub-Zero refrigerator and Wolf double ovens. Both the kitchen and the adjoining dining room have heated marble floors and open to a three-season sunroom. A deep ipe-wood deck extends along the full width of the entry level and connects to another, similar deck on the lower level.
厨房在布局上以中央岛台为中心，配备蓝星(BlueStar)五灶炉具。其他用具包括Sub-Zero冰箱和Wolf双层烤炉。厨房和毗邻的餐厅都铺设了制热大理石地板，通向一间三季太阳房。一座进深较长的重蚁木露台沿着入口层的宽边延伸，并与低层另一座类似的露台相连。
Bedrooms are on the second floor. The master suite has cherry floors, a vaulted ceiling with exposed beams, a walk-in closet and a private bathroom. A sitting area with windows on three sides juts out from the face of the house toward the mountains. Also on the second floor are a bathroom with a jetted tub, and an enclosed balcony, accessible from two of the bedrooms. The third floor is a large open loft with walls of windows on all sides, used as an office. There’s also a walkout lower level with an exercise room and a game room opening to the lower deck. Past the deck are a hot tub and an outdoor shower.
卧室在二楼。主卧套房铺有樱桃木地板，采用横梁外露的拱形天花板，设有一座步入式衣橱和一间私人浴室。休息区带有三面窗户，它从屋子前侧朝群山方向伸出。同在二楼的，还有一间带按摩浴缸的浴室，以及一座封闭式阳台，阳台通向两间卧室。三楼是一个开放式的大阁楼，它设有四面落地窗，被用作办公室。较低的平层还有一间健身室和游戏室，游戏室通向低层露台。穿过露台，是一座热水浴缸和一个室外淋浴间。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The landscaping around the house includes a rock garden and a cubist-inspired pavilion for outdoor dining. A stone-lined path leads from the house to a meadow with apple trees and a swimming pond.
户外空间：屋子周围的造景包括一片岩石花园和一座用于户外就餐的、立体派风格的凉亭。一条石块夹道的小径从住宅延伸到一片草地和一座游泳池。草地上生长着苹果树。
TAXES: Approximately $1,845 a year
税：每年1845美元（约合人民币12082元）
CONTACT: Chapin Fish, Brockman Real Estate — the Berkshires, (413) 528-4859; berkshiresforsale.com
联系方式：Chapin Fish, Brockman Real Estate — the Berkshires, (413) 528-4859; berkshiresforsale.com
•
SEATTLE
西雅图(SEATTLE)
WHAT: A midcentury modern with three bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms
房源：一座世纪中期现代主义（Mid-century modern，是指20世纪中期的1933至1965年，在美国发展的现代主义设计风格——译注）风格的住宅，带有三间卧室和两间半浴室
HOW MUCH: $1,100,000
房价：110万美元（约合人民币720万元）
SIZE: 3,300 square feet
面积：3300平方英尺（约合307平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $333
单位面积房价：每平方英尺333美元（每平方米约合人民币24233元）
SETTING: This midcentury modern is in a residential area in northeast Seattle called Maple Leaf. The house is one of a handful in the neighborhood set along Thornton Creek, which runs through the yard. The lot is buffered by wooded lots owned by the city; migratory herons visit the property on occasion. The nearby Northgate neighborhood has a mall, a light-rail station under construction, international grocers and light commercial development; Interstate 5 is close by the mall.
周边环境：这座世纪中期现代主义住宅位于西雅图东北部的枫叶(Maple Leaf)社区，是社区内少数毗邻桑顿河(Thornton Creek)的房屋之一，桑顿河从院子里穿流而过。市政府拥有的多片林地构成了此处地皮的缓冲带；候鸟苍鹭偶尔会光临此地。附近的北门(Northgate)社区有一家商场、一座在建的轻轨站、多家国际食品杂货店和少量商业开发项目；5号州际公路(Interstate 5)位于商场附近。
INDOORS: The two-story cedar clapboard house was built in the early 1950s and renovated within the past year. It was designed by Alfred Fenwick Simonson, an architect whose postwar projects ranged from high-end houses to banks and beauty salons. Renovations were done by House Healers.
室内装潢：这座两层雪松木隔板住宅建于上世纪50年代初，在过去一年内有所翻新。其设计师是阿尔弗雷德•芬威克西蒙森(Alfred Fenwick Simonson)——一位建筑师，其战后的设计项目既包括高端住宅，也包括银行和美容院。装修工程由House Healers完成。
The exterior is gray, with a ceramic tile roof and walls of windows facing the creek and the woods. The interior blends Mr. Simonson’s original design with new and cleverly repurposed materials, creating a look at once clean and rustic.
外饰为灰色，采用瓷屋顶和落地窗，落地窗面向桑顿河和树林。内饰融合了西蒙森的原始设计和巧妙改变用途的新材料，第一眼就给人以干净质朴的观感。
Set on a slope, the house opens on its top floor. The pitched ceiling in the living room is paneled in the original cedar. The floors are oak with slate accents. Recessed lighting and walls of windows create an airy space, while a large brick fireplace with a copper hood and a mahogany mantel gives the room an anchor, and separates the living room from the kitchen.
此住宅坐落斜坡上，出入口设在顶层。客厅的倾斜天花板采用原有的雪松木镶板。地板为橡木，带有石板质地。隐藏式照明和落地窗营造出一个通风的空间，同时，硕大的砖砌壁炉搭配铜罩和红木壁炉架，给整个房间定下了基调，并将客厅与厨房分隔开来。
The kitchen island is made from a cross-section of a Washington sequoia tree with a live edge, and has a built-in four-burner Wolf range. Other fixtures include concrete countertops and LED lighting. The dining room has a tile floor and walls of glass on three sides, with sliding glass doors that open to a deck cantilevered over the creek.
厨房岛台由一棵华盛顿红杉树的横截面制成，采用原木自然边，带有嵌入式Wolf四灶炉具。其他家具包括混凝土台面和LED照明。餐厅铺设瓷砖地板，设有三面落地窗，滑动玻璃门通向一座露台，露台悬在桑顿河上空。
A pair of black steel doors from the Palladian Hotel in Seattle open to the entry-level master suite. The room has a wood window seat and a sliding door to a deck. A midcentury Brutalist mosaic sideboard by Lane Furniture was repurposed as a bathroom vanity; the cast concrete tub is set under walls of glass.
一对黑色铁门通向入口层的主卧套房，这对铁门取自西雅图帕拉第奥酒店(Palladian Hotel)。房间里有一把靠窗的木椅和一扇通往露台的推拉门。由Lane Furniture出品的世纪中叶野兽派镶嵌餐具柜被改变用途，用作了浴室梳妆台；现浇混凝土浴缸设在落地窗边。
The entry level and the lower level are bridged by a mezzanine with slate floors, rough-cut cedar paneling and a creekside entryway. An industrial door from an old Filson clothing factory is now used on the coat closet; a chandelier, also salvage, was fashioned from copper tubes, each with its own electrical cord.
入口层和低层由一个夹层连接，夹层铺设石板地面，采用粗切雪松木镶板，在河畔一侧设有入口。目前衣柜上使用的工业门取自以前的菲尔森(Filson)服装厂；枝形吊灯也是回收利用的旧物，它由铜管制成，每根铜管都有各自的电源线。
In addition to the second and third bedrooms, the lower level has a den and a study. Floors here alternate between bamboo and polished concrete, with the original wood-paneled ceilings and a stone fireplace in the den. The bathroom’s vanity is a cabinet salvaged from an elementary school in Tacoma, Wash., while two wall cabinets are from a West Seattle high school. A bathroom connects the downstairs bedrooms, both of which face the creek. The property also has an attached two-car garage with cedar walls and a vaulted ceiling.
除了第二、三间卧室，低层具还有一间私室和一间书房。此楼层采用竹地板及抛光混凝土地板，搭配原木镶板天花板，私室设有一座石砌壁炉。浴室的梳妆台是从华盛顿州塔科马(Tacoma)的一所小学回收利用的橱柜，另外两个吊柜取自西雅图西部的一所高中。低层的两间卧室都面朝桑顿河，由一间浴室相连。此房产还设有一个附属车库，车库可停放两辆车，采用雪松木墙壁和拱形天花板。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is about a third of an acre, thick with Douglas fir.
户外空间：此房产占地约三分之一英亩（约合0.13公顷），室外生长着许多道格拉斯冷杉。
TAXES: $5,049 a year
税：每年5049美元（约合人民币33063元） 
CONTACT: Edward Krigsman, Windermere Real Estate, (206) 387-6789; heronhouse.net
联系方式：Edward Krigsman, Windermere Real Estate, (206) 387-6789; heronhouse.net
•
FORT WORTH
沃斯堡(FORT WORTH)
WHAT: A midcentury ranch with four bedrooms and five and a half bathrooms
房源：一座世纪中叶牧场住宅，带有四间卧室和五间半浴室
HOW MUCH: $1,100,000
房价：110万美元（约合人民币720万元）
SIZE: 5,755 square feet
面积：5755平方英尺（约合535平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $191
单位面积房价：每平方英尺191美元（约合每平方英尺人民币13900元
SETTING: This house is on a quiet dead-end road in an older residential neighborhood called Ridglea, inside the main highway loop of Fort Worth. The road the house is on winds into the Ridglea Country Club, which has two golf courses. Neighbors are on acre-plus lots. Supermarkets and shopping centers are along Vickery Boulevard, a couple of miles away; museums, theaters, gardens and zoos are in the city’s cultural district, about five miles away; downtown is a few miles beyond that.
周边环境：此住宅位于老社区Ridglea的一条安静的独头路上，地处沃思堡的主要高速环路内。房屋所在的道路蜿蜒曲折地延伸到Ridglea乡村俱乐部，该俱乐部有两座高尔夫球场。相邻房产的占地面积都超过一英亩。超市和购物中心都设在几英里以外的维克里大道(Vickery Boulevard)；博物馆、剧院、公园和动物园都位于本市的文化区，距离约五英里（约合8公里）；市中心更远，文化区过去还要几英里。
INDOORS: The low-lying ranch was built in 1950 and last updated about 10 years ago. A circular driveway leads to a courtyard with a wrought-iron gate, rose bushes and a water fountain. The large living room and adjoining sunroom form an open-plan space totaling nearly 750 square feet, with walls of windows facing the yard and pool.
室内装潢：这座牧场住宅地势较低，建于1950年，最后一次翻新大约是在10年前。一条环形车道通往一座庭院，庭院带有锻铁门，生长着玫瑰花丛，设有一座喷泉。大客厅和旁边的太阳房形成了一个开放式空间，共计近750平方英尺（约合70平方米），其落地窗面向院子和游泳池。
The brick floors in both rooms are original, as are the living room’s white brick fireplace and unusual copper wall. The sunroom has a wall of cabinets and entertainment storage. Glass doors in the living area open to a fire pit and outdoor kitchen with a sink and a grill; the pool, patio and hot tub, off the sunroom, are fenced.
两个房间的砖石地板是原有的，客厅的白砖壁炉和罕见的铜墙亦然。阳光房带有一墙的橱柜和娱乐设备储物空间。起居区的玻璃门通向一个烧烤火炉和一间室外厨房，那里设有盥洗池和烧烤架；日光浴室边的游泳池、露台和热水浴缸都带围栏。
The kitchen was updated with granite surfaces, stainless-steel appliances and plenty of storage, both overhead and under counters. An island separates the kitchen from a family room with a gas fireplace and walls of glass facing the front courtyard and a large Japanese maple.
厨房的翻新包括采用了花岗岩台面和不锈钢设备，且无论是在高处，还是在橱柜下，都留有充足的储物空间。一座岛台将厨房与家庭娱乐室分隔开来。家庭娱乐室带有燃气壁炉和多面玻璃墙，玻璃墙面向前院和一棵巨大的日本枫树。
There is a butler’s pantry with mirrored walls and glass shelves. A hallway leads to a suite with its own living area, bedroom and bathroom.
餐具室设有镜墙和玻璃搁架。一条走廊通向一间套房。套房自带起居区、卧室和浴室。
The rest of the bedrooms, including the master suite, are at the other end of the house. The master suite has an office, and opens to a side yard and a flagstone patio. The suite includes a walk-in closet and a bathroom with double vanities, three sinks, a soaking tub and a steam shower. Floors in the bedrooms are the original hardwood, while custom storage, for books, entertainment and clothing, was installed during renovations. There’s also a library.
其他卧室，包括主卧套房，位于房屋的另一端。主卧套房设有一间办公室，通向一座侧院和一座石板露台。套房带有一座步入式衣柜和一间浴室。浴室带有两个梳妆台、三个盥洗池、一个浴缸和一个蒸汽淋浴间。卧室地板为原有的硬木，定制的储物空间是在装修期间安装的，用于存放书籍、娱乐设备和服装。此住宅还带一间书房。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is just over an acre, with front, back and side yards beyond the patios and pool. The outdoor kitchen area has built-in seating.
户外空间：此住宅占地刚过一英亩（约合0.4公顷），除了露台和游泳池以外，房屋正面、背面和侧面带有庭院。户外厨房设有嵌入式座位。
TAXES: Approximately $19,654 a year
税：每年约19654美元（约合人民币128701元）
CONTACT: Zareen Khan, Briggs Freeman Sotheby’s International Realty, (817) 841-9505; 4225ridgehaven.com
联系方式：Zareen Khan, Briggs Freeman Sotheby’s International Realty, (817) 841-9505; 4225ridgehaven.com