A Japanese man who was the world’s oldest living person, and the longest-lived man in recorded history, died Wednesday at the age of 116 at a hospital near the city of Kyoto.
一名日本男子于本周三在京都市附近的一家医院里去世，享年116岁，他曾是全球最长寿的人，也是有史以来最长寿的男性。
Jiroemon Kimura, a retired postal worker who was born in 1897, and who worked before World War II in what was then the Japanese colony of Korea, died of natural causes in the city of Kyotango, local media said. He had been hospitalized for a month for pneumonia and blood-sugar problems, the reports said.
据当地媒体报道，这位名叫木村次郎右卫门(Jiroemon Kimura)的男子生于1897年，是一名退休邮递员，因自然原因死于京丹后市。第二次世界大战(World War II)以前，他曾在日本当时的殖民地朝鲜工作。报道说，他去世前已因肺炎和血糖问题住院治疗了一个月。
In his final years, Mr. Kimura was widely quoted as advising people to “eat light to live longer,” attributing his own longevity to consuming only healthy food in moderate portions. Japanese media said he had seven children, 14 grandchildren, 25 great-grandchildren and 15 great-great grandchildren, though they did not say if all were still alive.
在人生的最后几年里，人们广泛引用木村次郎右卫门的建议，他把长寿秘诀归功于适量而健康的饮食，建议人们“要长寿就少吃一点”。日本媒体说，他膝下有七个子女，孙子辈14人、曾孙子辈25人、玄孙辈15人，不过，媒体没有表明他们是否仍然健在。
With Mr. Kimura’s death, the title of oldest living person goes to another Japanese, Misao Okawa, a 115-year-old women in the city of Osaka. Japan has the world’s longest life expectancies, a fact that Japanese themselves often attribute to a low-fat diet heavy in fish, and also to affordable health care.
木村次郎右卫门去世后，全球最长寿老人的名号落到了另一名日本人、现居于大阪市的115岁女性大川美佐绪(Misao Okawa)头上。日本是全球最长寿的国家，日本人常常把这个事实归功于包含大量鱼类的低脂肪食谱，以及价格合理的医疗保障制度。
Like Mr. Kimura, Ms. Okawa, who was born in 1898, is one of the last people who has lived through three different centuries. Both were born while Queen Victoria still reigned in Britain.
曾在三个不同世纪生活过的人已经所剩无几，和木村次郎右卫门一样，生于1898年的大川美佐绪也是其中之一。他们二人出生时，英国的维多利亚女王(Queen Victoria)依然在位。
According to the Guinness World Records, Mr. Kimura became the oldest living man in documented history on Dec. 27, when he surpassed the mark left by a Danish-born American, Christian Mortensen, who died in 1998 at 115 years and 252 days.
根据吉尼斯世界纪录(Guinness World Records)，木村次郎右卫门于去年12月27日刷新了在丹麦出生的美籍男子克里斯蒂安·莫滕森(Christian Mortensen)创造的记录，成为有记载以来最长寿的男性，后者于1998年去世，享年115岁零252天。