SEATTLE
西雅图(SEATTLE)
WHAT: A midcentury modern with four bedrooms and three bathrooms
待售房产：一栋四卧三卫的20世纪中期现代住宅
HOW MUCH: $1,200,000
价格：120万美元（约合人民币745万元）
SIZE: 2,560 square feet
大小：2560平方英尺（约合238平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $469
每平方英尺单价：469美元（约合每平方米人民币3.13万元）
SETTING: This 1958 house is in Seward Park, a neighborhood in southeast Seattle on the shores of Lake Washington. The neighborhood is named for a 300-acre park a short walk from this house, about 120 acres of which are covered in old-growth forest containing Douglas fir, hemlock, madrona and Alaskan cedar. Walking and biking trails throughout the park connect to a network of trails following the shoreline of the lake. Though mostly residential, the neighborhood has a handful of coffee shops, natural food stores and restaurants.
周边环境：这栋1958年的房屋，位于西雅图市东南部、华盛顿湖岸边的一处名为西沃德公园(Seward Park)的社区内。该社区是因一座面积300英亩（约合121公顷）、从这栋房屋短途步行可达的公园而得名。这座公园当中大约有120英亩（约合49公顷）的面积覆盖着原始森林，其中有花旗松(Douglas fir)、铁杉、野草莓树(madrona)和阿拉斯加雪松(Alaskan cedar)。几条穿过公园、可供散步和骑行的小径，与湖岸线后方纵横交错的蜿蜒小道相连。虽然此社区主要是住宅区，但还是有数十家咖啡店、天然食品店和餐厅。
INDOORS: The two-story house is textbook midcentury: open floor plan, pitched ceilings, walls of windows. The great room is punctuated by a partial brick wall with a gas fireplace. Walls of windows face Lake Washington, Mount Rainier and the Cascade Range. The stainless-steel kitchen appliances were installed during a major renovation about five years ago. Sliding glass doors in the great room open to a deck that spans the front of the house. Both indoors and outdoors are wired for surround sound.
室内环境：这栋两层楼的房屋是20世纪中期住宅的典型样本：开放式的户型设计，倾斜的天花板，成排的窗户。那间硕大的房间，被一面带燃气壁炉、有着部分裸砖的墙壁面分隔开来。成排的窗户面对着华盛顿湖(Lake Washington)、瑞尼尔山(Mount Rainier)和喀斯喀特山脉(Cascade Range)。不锈钢的厨房电器是大约五年前的一次大修期间安装的。大房间里的推拉玻璃门通往房前横贯的一处平台。室内外都连接了环绕立体声。
Three bedrooms are on the main level, including the master. Sliding glass doors in the master open to a courtyard, and the en-suite bathroom has a skylight and a whirlpool tub. On the lower level, there is an additional bedroom, a family room with a fireplace, an exercise room and an office. The office has a sleek built-in desk and storage cabinets. There is a two-car garage.
包括主卧的三间卧室都为于主楼层。主卧里的一道推拉玻璃门通往一座庭院；与之配套的浴室中有一扇天窗和一个涡流式浴缸。楼下那层另有一间卧室，还有一间带壁炉的家庭娱乐室、一间健身房和一间办公室。这间办公室里有一张阔气的嵌壁式书桌和几个存储柜。这栋房子还有一间带两车位的车库。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house has a landscaped backyard. The large palm trees shading the courtyard were planted when they were about six inches tall by the original owner.
户外空间：该房屋有一座经过景观设计的后院。几棵遮蔽着庭院的大棕榈树是由原屋主在树苗高约6英寸（约15厘米）时种下的。
TAXES: $6,070 a year
税收：每年6070美元（约合人民币37683元）
CONTACT: Chris Doucet, Realogics Sotheby’s International Realty, (206) 819-4663; seattlesgreatesthomes.com
联系方式：克里斯·杜塞特(Chris Doucet), Realogics Sotheby’s International Realty, (206) 819-4663; seattlesgreatesthomes.com
PHILADELPHIA
费城(PHILADELPHIA)
WHAT: A stone house with seven bedrooms and four-and-a-half bathrooms, plus a garage apartment
待售房产：一栋包括七间卧室与四间半浴室的石砌庄园，外加一套车库公寓
HOW MUCH: $1,200,000
价格：120万美元（约合人民币745万元）
SIZE: 5,960 square feet
大小：5960平方英尺（约合554平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $201
每平方英尺单价：201美元（约合每平方米人民币1.34万元）
SETTING: This house is in Chestnut Hill, a neighborhood and historic district. Its two-and-a-half-acre lot slopes directly into Wissahickon Valley Park, which has 1,400 acres. A former suburb and farming community folded into the city during the 19th century, Chestnut Hill has some of the most distinguished housing stock in Philadelphia: Italianate Victorians; manor-style estate houses; and some early modern structures designed by luminaries like Robert Venturi and Louis Kahn.
周边环境：这栋房屋位于契斯纳山(Chestnut Hill)社区当中，这座社区同时也是一个历史保护区。这处房产的2.5英亩（约合1公顷）斜坡属地，直接延伸至占地1400英亩（约合567公顷）的威萨西康山谷公园(Wissahickon Valley)。契斯纳山作为19世纪并入这座城市的一个曾经的乡村及农耕社区，拥有费城一些最引人注目的存量住宅：意式维多利亚风格房屋、庄园式地产，以及由罗伯特·文丘里(Robert Venturi )和路易斯·康(Louis Kahn)等杰出人物设计的一些早期现代住宅。
Though primarily residential, the neighborhood has a commercial strip along Germantown Avenue, which is lined with one- and two-story buildings. Among its hundred-plus businesses are candy shops, antiques stores, cafes, a food co-op and a farmers’ market.
该社区虽然主要为住宅区，但沿着日耳曼敦大道(Germantown Avenue)是一片商业地带，道路两旁排列着许多一层或两层的建筑物。那里的上百家门店中，有许多糖果店、古董店、咖啡馆，还有一家食品合营店及一个农贸市场。
A Septa rail stop is just off Germantown Avenue; the ride to Center City Philadelphia takes about 30 minutes.
一座由宾夕法尼亚州东南地区交通局(Septa)运营的火车站就在离日耳曼敦大道不远的地方；搭乘火车到费城的中心城区大约需要30分钟。
INDOORS: This three-story stone manor house was built in 1919. Its architect, George Howe, built mansions throughout the city, collaborated with Louis Kahn at the Philadelphia Housing Authority and served as chairman of the architecture department at Yale.
室内环境：这栋三层高的石砌庄园宅邸建于1919年。建筑师乔治·豪(George Howe)在全市建造过多座豪宅，并且与费城房管局(Philadelphia Housing Authority)的路易斯·卡恩(Louis Kahn)有过合作，还在耶鲁大学的建筑系担任过主席。
Hardwood floors are mostly original, as is the crown molding, the hardware and the hand-carved mantels. Most rooms face south, with views of the gardens and yards. The living and dining rooms are on either side of a stone entry hall. Both have wood-burning fireplaces.
屋内的实木地板大部分是原有的，正如顶冠饰条、五金制品与那座手工雕刻的壁炉架一样。房屋的多数房间朝南，有着花园和庭院景观。起居室和餐厅分别位于石砌正门大厅的两侧，两间房内都有燃木壁炉。
French doors in the living room open to a two-story greenhouse. The dining room has panel wainscoting. The kitchen has a marble island, a five-burner gas range and a Sub-Zero refrigerator. Also on the first floor is a library.
客厅里的法式双开门通往一座两层的暖房。这间餐厅有护壁嵌板。厨房里有一座大理石岛台、一个带五个炉头的燃气灶和一台Sub-Zero牌冰箱。另有一间图书室也在一楼。
The bedrooms are on the second and third floors. The master has a wall of closets, and an en-suite bathroom with a jetted tub and a glass-enclosed shower. Both the master bedroom and bathroom have French doors that open to Juliet balconies inside the greenhouse. The finished basement has a family room, an exercise room and a sauna. Also on the property are stables, a stone spring house and a two-car garage with a studio apartment upstairs.
卧室位于二楼和三楼。主卧中有一排衣橱和一间带喷水浴缸与玻璃淋浴房的配套浴室。主卧和浴室内，都有通往暖房内几座朱丽叶阳台的法式双开门。在装修过的地下室中，有一间家庭娱乐室、一间健身房和一间桑拿房。这处房产中还包括几个马厩，一座石砌的泉水屋（spring house，建造在泉水上的单间小屋，在以前没有冰箱的时候用来保存食物——译注），和一栋楼上是单间公寓的两车位车库。
OUTDOOR SPACE: Two-and-a-half acres with gardens and lawns that slope down to Wissahickon Valley Park. Off the kitchen is a garden surrounded by a stone wall, used for herbs and vegetables.
户外空间：占地2.5英亩（约合1公顷），带花园和草坪，地势倾斜向下伸入威萨西康山谷公园。厨房外是一片围着石墙的花园，曾被用来种植草药与蔬菜。
TAXES: $16,285 a year
税收：每年16285美元（约合人民币10万元）。
CONTACT: Loretta Witt, Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Fox & Roach, Realtors, (215) 264-3074; lorettawitt.com
联系方式：洛雷塔·威特(Loretta Witt), Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Fox & Roach, Realtors, (215) 264-3074; lorettawitt.com