LITTLE ROCK, ARK.
阿肯色州的小石城
WHAT: A contemporary with four bedrooms and four bathrooms, overlooking the Arkansas River
待售房产：一栋远眺阿肯色河的四卧四卫当代住宅
HOW MUCH: $1,200,000
价格：120万美元（约合人民币764万元）
SIZE: 4,830 square feet
面积：4830平方英尺（约449平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $248
每平方英尺单价：248美元（每平方米约合人民币1.7万元）
SETTING: This house is perched over the Arkansas River on a winding road in Overlook, a wooded neighborhood in the northwestern part of the city. It has broad views of the river and the Big Dam Bridge, which connects the city to North Little Rock. A nearby bike path winds along the river toward downtown, home to the Clinton Library and the River Market district, a neighborhood of shops, restaurants and bars along the river’s edge.
周边环境：这栋房屋俯瞰阿肯色河，位于奥弗洛克(Overlook)社区内一条蜿蜒曲折的小路旁，这是一个绿树成荫的社区，坐落在小石城的西北边。这栋房屋周围有开阔的视野，可眺望阿肯色河与大坝桥(Big Dam Bridge)，该桥是小石城与北小石城(North Little Rock)之间的通道。这座住宅附近有一条自行车道，曲曲折折沿着阿肯色河通往市中心，那里有克林顿图书馆(Clinton Library)和阿肯色河集市区(River Market district)，是一个沿着河边形成的聚集了商店、餐厅与酒吧的社区。
INDOORS: The 1972 contemporary was designed by Noland Blass Jr., an architect whose clean designs can be seen throughout the city, including the Justice Building on the grounds of the Arkansas State Capitol. This house is constructed of stone and stucco, with a steel frame. Built on a slope, it has an entry level and a lower level that opens to a patio and pool.
室内环境：这栋1972年的当代住宅由Noland Blass Jr.设计，这位建筑师风格简洁的设计作品在小石城内随处可见，其中包括按阿肯色州议会大厦(Arkansas State Capitol)风格修建的司法大楼(Justice Building)。该房屋以石材和灰泥建造而成，带有钢骨结构。由于修建在一段坡道上，这座房屋分为进门层和坡下层，后者通往户外的一座露台和游泳池。
In the foyer is an unusual copper-and-bronze ceiling with lights made of acrylic cylinders. Past the foyer is a formal dining room suspended over the living room.
门厅内是一片特殊的纯铜与青铜天花板，上面安了有机玻璃的圆柱形灯具。走过这间门厅就是一间正式的餐厅，这里的位置略高于客厅。
Kitchen appliances, including a Sub-Zero refrigerator and two dishwashers, were updated within the last 10 years during a series of renovations. The informal dining area has sliding glass doors onto a screened porch; stairs lead to one of several terraces.
厨房里包括一台Sub-Zero冰箱和两台洗碗机在内的电器都在近十年内数次翻修的过程中重新配置的。这处非正式的餐厅区内有一扇滑动玻璃门正对着一处封闭的门廊；有几级台阶可通往户外的一处平台。
The master suite is on the entry level. Its bathroom has a Duravit soaking tub and heated floors. The downstairs living room incorporates a 30-foot-tall wall of glass overlooking the pool, its large deck and the Arkansas River. The fireplace is faced with blue-gray slate. The three other bedrooms are also downstairs. One has a separate entrance, as well as a private deck. Also downstairs is a wood-paneled den with a bar. Like most rooms in the house, it has sliding glass doors that open to a patio. The property has a three-car garage.
主卧套间位于进门层。该套间的浴室里有Duravit品牌的沉浸式浴缸和地暖。楼下的客厅里有一面高30英尺（约9米）的玻璃墙可以眺望外面的游泳池、大平台以及远处的阿肯色河。这座壁炉外贴着灰蓝色的石板。另外的三间卧室也在楼下。其中一间卧室有独立的入口和一处私家平台。楼下还有一间墙面上镶嵌着木板的小房间，里面有一座吧台。正如这栋房屋内的大多数房间一样，该房间也有一扇滑动玻璃门可通往一处露台。这处房产带有一间可停放三辆车的车库。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house is on just under a half-acre. The yard is landscaped with fruit trees and a grape arbor.
户外空间：这栋房屋的占地面积将近半英亩（约2023平方米）。院子里种了一些果树，还有一个葡萄架。
TAXES: Approximately $6,749 a year
税：每年大约6749美元（约合人民币4.3万元）
CONTACT: Keith Moore, River Rock Realty, (501) 529-2000; riverrockrealtycompany.com
联系方式：Keith Moore, River Rock Realty, (501) 529-2000; riverrockrealtycompany.com
•
MAPLE BLUFF, WIS.
威斯康辛州的梅普尔布拉夫(MAPLE BLUFF, WIS.)
WHAT: A Mediterranean-style house with five bedrooms and four bathrooms, on Lake Mendota
待售房产：一栋位于门多塔湖边、地中海风格的五卧四卫住宅
HOW MUCH: $1,200,000
价格：120万美元（约合人民币764万元）
SIZE: 3,813 square feet total
面积：共3813平方英尺（约354平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $315
每平方英尺单价：315美元（每平方米约合人民币2.2万元）
SETTING: Maple Bluff is a village, less than three-quarters of a square mile in size, surrounded by Madison. Most houses here, including the governor’s mansion, are on Lake Mendota. A beach park offers free kayak and canoe rentals for adult residents; the lake is good for ice skating in winter. A bike path on the isthmus between Lake Mendota and Lake Menona leads to downtown Madison, a few miles away.
周边环境：梅普尔布拉夫是一座村庄，面积不到0.75平方英里（约2平方公里），周围被麦迪逊市（Madison）环绕。这里包括州长府在内的大多数房屋都建在门多塔湖旁边。湖滩公园提供了免费的划船场所，也为成年居民提供了小船租赁服务；这座湖在冬季还是个滑冰的好地方。在门农纳湖(Menona)与门多塔湖之间的地峡区内有一条可供骑行的小径，这条路通往几英里之外的麦迪逊市中心。
INDOORS: The three-story Mediterranean house was built in 1927 and substantially updated in 1999. Original features include some leaded-glass windows and arched windows and doorways.
室内环境：这栋地中海风格的三层住宅建于1927年，并于1999年大面积翻修过。屋内一些原有的特色包括几扇有铅玻璃窗、几处拱形窗户和门道。
Common rooms are a half-flight of stairs up from the street, through the original front door with a porthole window. Most interior walls are the original plaster, with a beehive fireplace in the living room. The sunroom, an addition, has tiled floors, a pitched wood ceiling and French doors opening to a deck on the lake. The kitchen was updated during renovations.
屋内的几间公用房间建在比街道高半截楼梯的地方，穿过那道原有的带一扇舷窗的大门可达。房间内的墙壁大部分是原来的灰泥粉饰，这间客厅里还有一座蜂巢式的壁炉。新增的阳光房里铺着瓷砖地板，有倾斜的木质天花板，以及通往湖边平台的一扇法式双开门。这间厨房在翻修时更新过。
One of the bedrooms is on the entry level. The rest are split between the second and third floors, with the master suite overlooking the lake.
有间卧室位于进门的这一层。其他卧室分别在二楼和三楼，其中的主卧套间可眺望湖景。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house has 50 feet of lake frontage, with a boathouse and pier. Part of the yard is landscaped with perennials, with mature trees shading the deck.
户外空间：这栋房屋带有50英尺（约15米）长的一段湖边地块和一座船库与码头。院子里有部分地方种了一些多年生的植物，其中有几棵大树遮挡着这座平台。
TAXES: Approximately $17,776 a year
税：每年大约17776美元（约合人民币11万元）
CONTACT: Shelly Sprinkman, Sprinkman Real Estate, (608) 220-1453; sprinkmanrealestate.com
联系方式：Shelly Sprinkman, Sprinkman Real Estate, (608) 220-1453; sprinkmanrealestate.com
•
KETCHUM, IDAHO
爱达荷州的凯彻姆(KETCHUM, IDAHO)
WHAT: A cabin with two bedrooms and one bathroom, and a one-bedroom, one-bath garage apartment
待售房产：一栋两卧一卫的小木屋和一套一卧一卫的车库公寓
HOW MUCH: $1,200,000
价格：120万美元（约合人民币764万元）
SIZE: 1,288 square feet in the cabin, 1,024 square feet in the garage apartment
面积：小木屋为1288平方英尺（约120平方米），车库公寓为1024平方英尺（约95平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $519
每平方英尺单价：519美元（每平方米约合人民币3.6万元）
SETTING: This property is on a winding dead-end lane in Board Ranch, a neighborhood of rustic cabins and newer construction a few miles from Bald Mountain, which has some of the most challenging slopes in the Sun Valley ski resort. A former mining town, Ketchum and neighboring Sun Valley became resort destinations in the 1930s. The area is surrounded by trails for hiking and biking in the Sawtooth National Forest, which spans over 2 million acres across Idaho and Utah, as well as places to hunt and fish. There is a swimming hole in Warm Springs Creek, which runs along the edge of the property, as well as hot springs a few miles down the road.
周边环境：这处房产坐落在博德兰奇(Board Ranch)的一条蜿蜒曲折的死路旁，这里是一个有许多乡村小木屋和新建住宅的社区，几英里外就是巴尔德山(Bald Mountain)，那里有整个太阳谷滑雪胜地(Sun Valley ski resort)中最陡峭的山坡。凯彻姆和旁边的太阳谷曾经是一座矿业小镇，上世纪30年代变成了旅游胜地。这片区域被索图斯国家森林(Sawtooth National Forest)里的几条可供徒步与骑车的小径环绕着，森林覆盖了超过200万英亩的面积，横跨了爱达荷州和犹他州。这个区域内还有许多地方可以打猎和钓鱼。在流经这处房产边缘的温泉小溪(Warm Springs Creek)中有个可游泳的山洞池塘，这条路下游的几英里处还有几座温泉。
INDOORS: One of the cabins was built in 1966. It has two bedrooms, a kitchen and a living room with a wood stove, as well as a loft overhead.
室内环境：两栋木屋中有一栋建于1966年。该木屋内有两间卧室、一间厨房和一间带一座燃木壁炉的客厅，上面还有一处跃层结构。
The newer cabin, with a garage below and living quarters overhead, was built in 2009. Construction is hand-hewn timber with chinking on the lower part and board and batten at the top, with cornflower-blue barn lights designed by a local company, Ketchum Lighting.
较新的那栋木屋建于2009年，下层是一间车库，上层则是生活区。建筑材料用了手劈木条，在下端带有缝隙，上端是木板和板条，屋内还有矢车菊蓝的谷仓照明用具，这些灯具是由当地的凯彻姆照明公司(Ketchum Lighting)设计。
The interior of the newer place has bamboo floors and pitched ceilings throughout, with dark window trim and beams. Common areas are on an open plan, with picture-window views of the mountains. Glass doors open to a deck. The kitchen is separated from the rest of the room by a breakfast bar with a concrete countertop. Tiles in the bathroom were handpicked in India and Morocco, as were the closet knobs. The bedroom has a pitched ceiling and a wall of windows.
较新的那栋小木屋里全是竹木地板和倾斜的天花板，还有黑色的窗户边沿与横梁。公共活动区采用了开敞式格局，有取景窗可以看见山脉景色。这扇玻璃门通往一处平台。厨房由一个带混凝土台面的早餐吧台与房间的其余部分隔开了。浴室里的瓷砖是在印度和摩洛哥精心挑选的，几个衣柜的把手也是。这间卧室里有倾斜的天花板和一排窗户。
Part of the garage is a sitting area designed as a place to tune skis or dry off after sitting in the hot tub or using the outdoor shower. It is wired for surround sound, as is the rest of the house.
车库里有一部分是休息区，可用作专门保养滑雪板的地方，也可作为在户外泡过浴缸或淋浴后弄干的地方。这里和屋内其他地方一样，都布置了环绕立体声。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is just under an acre, with mountain views in all directions.
户外空间：这处房产占地将近1英亩（约4047平方米），全方位可见山景。
TAXES: Approximately $2,965 a year
税：每年大约2965美元（约合人民币1.9万元）
CONTACT: Katherine Schroder and Martha Hausmann, Sun Valley Sotheby’s International Realty, (208) 721-1326 / (208) 721-0342; sunvalleysir.com
联系方式：Katherine Schroder and Martha Hausmann, Sun Valley Sotheby’s International Realty, (208) 721-1326 / (208) 721-0342; sunvalleysir.com