NEWPORT, R.I. 
罗德岛的纽波特市(NEWPORT, R.I.)
WHAT: A waterfront cottage with two bedrooms and two bathrooms
待售房产：一栋两卧两卫的水滨小屋
HOW MUCH: $1,250,000
价格：125万美元（约合人民币799万元）
SIZE: 1,576 square feet
大小：1576平方英尺（约146平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $793
每平方英尺单价：793美元（每平方米约合人民币5.5万元）
SETTING: This shingled cottage is in the Point, a neighborhood of wood-frame houses, many Colonial, originally built for merchants and artisans. The neighborhood, facing Newport Harbor and part of Newport’s historic district, is about a 10-block walk from the center of town. This property comes with deeded riparian rights across the street, where a sea wall drops off into the harbor.
周边环境：这栋木瓦风格的小屋位于波因特社区(Point)。这是个木屋社区，建筑多为殖民地风格，最初为一些商人和艺术家而建。这座社区面对着纽波特港(Newport Harbor)和纽波特历史区的部分地方，到市中心大约有十个街区的距离。这处房产带有街对面河岸土地的可转让所有权，那里有一道海堤向下延伸至海港中。
INDOORS: The two-story 2005 cottage was built on the foundation of a 1915 house. The designer was Peter Twombly of Estes/Twombly, an architecture firm that specializes in contemporary variations on New England traditions.
室内环境：这栋2005年的两层楼小屋是在一栋1915年房屋的基础上建造的。小屋的建筑设计师是Estes/Twombly建筑事务所的彼得·通布利(Peter Twombly)，该公司专门设计各种带有新英格兰传统特色的当代建筑。
The custom mahogany front door opens to a foyer with stairs and an elevator. Common areas are bright and open, with walls of windows facing Newport Harbor. Floors are Brazilian cherry with radiant heat. The living room has a fireplace with a slate surround, flanked by oak cabinets.
这扇定制的红木大门通往一间带有楼梯和升降梯的门厅。屋内的公共区域非常明亮，采用了开敞式设计，有几面墙的窗户面对着纽波特港。地上铺着带有辐射供暖的巴西樱桃木地板。这间客厅里有一座周围贴了石板的壁炉，两边配有橡木橱柜。
Kitchen appliances include a Sub-Zero refrigerator and KitchenAid cooktop and oven, along with a Doulton water filter in the sink. Cabinets are red oak; surfaces are rough-finished black granite. Mahogany doors open to a mahogany deck.
厨房电器包括一台Sub-Zero的冰箱和KitchenAid的炉灶与烤箱，水槽中还装了Doulton的滤水器。这里的橱柜都是用红色橡木做的；台面是有粗糙质感的黑色花岗岩。这里还有一扇红木的房门可以通往外面的一处红木平台。
Both bedrooms are upstairs. The master bedroom has a small loft overlooking the water. The master bathroom has stone counters, slate floors and a wall of small bowed cedar panels. A jetted tub is set under shoji screens that slide open to reveal the water view. There is a detached one-car garage.
两间卧室都在楼上。主卧带有一处可以俯瞰水域的小跃层。主卧浴室中有石砌的台面和石板地面，还有一处镶嵌着波浪形雪松木板的墙面。一座喷水式浴缸安置在一扇日式推拉窗下，推开这扇窗户就可以看见外面的水景。这栋房屋还有一间半独立式单车位的车库。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is 0.11 acres. Behind the house, there are a granite patio and a fieldstone wall with curving granite seats, shaded by Sawara cypress. A walkway is edged with Japanese maples, and has a wall of steel tiles taken from an old carriage house. The brick driveway is heated to melt snow.
户外空间：这处房产占地面积0.11英亩（约445平方米）。屋后有一处花岗岩露台，还有一面由散石砌成的、带有曲形花岗岩坐椅的墙面，旁边有一棵日本花柏树可以遮阴。一条走道边种着几棵日本枫树，还有一面来自一栋老式马车房的钢砖墙壁。这条砖砌的车道铺有地暖，可以融化积雪。
TAXES: Approximately $12,406 a year
税：每年大约12406美元（约合人民币79338元）。
CONTACT: Stephanie Guinan, Re/Max Professionals, (401) 965-8433; stephanieguinan.com
联系方式：Stephanie Guinan, Re/Max Professionals, (401) 965-8433; stephanieguinan.com
CHAPEL HILL, N.C.
北卡罗来纳州查珀尔希尔市(NEWPORT, R.I.)
WHAT: A midcentury modern with three bedrooms and three bathrooms
待售房产：一栋20世纪中期三卧三卫的现代住宅
HOW MUCH: $1,250,000
价格：125万美元（约合人民币799万元）
SIZE: 3,671 square feet
大小：3671平方英尺（约341平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $341
每平方英尺单价：341美元（每平方米约合人民币2.3万元）
SETTING: Chapel Hill is a low-key college town in North Carolina’s Triangle region, which also covers Raleigh and Durham. This house is just south of the University of North Carolina, not far from the restaurants and cafes along Franklin Avenue, or the farmers’ markets, boutiques, record shops and craft brewers of neighboring Carrboro.
周边环境：查珀尔希尔是位于北卡罗来纳州三角地带的一座低调的大学城，该区域还包括罗利(Raleigh)与达勒姆(Durham)两座城市。这栋房屋坐落在北卡罗来纳大学(University of North Carolina)的正南方，距离富兰克林大道上的那些餐厅与咖啡厅不远，附近的卡勃罗市(Carrboro)还有几个农贸市场、一些服装精品店、几家唱片行和一些出售自酿酒的商家。
INDOORS: The low-lying cypress house was built in 1964, commissioned by Dean Smith, a former basketball coach at the university. It was designed by Arthur Cogswell and renovated in 2007-8 by Philip Szostak of Szostak Design, a Chapel Hill architecture firm also responsible for the Durham Performing Arts Center. Fixtures, finishes, surfaces and other interior details were selected by Cindy Spuria of Sitzer Spuria Studios in Carrboro.
室内环境：这栋地势较低的柏木房屋建于1964年，由北卡罗来纳大学前任篮球教练迪安·史密斯(Dean Smith)委托建造。这栋房屋由亚瑟·科格斯韦尔(Arthur Cogswell)设计，并由绍斯塔克设计公司(Szostak Design)的菲利普·绍斯塔克(Philip Szostak)于2007年至2008年期间翻修过，查珀尔希尔市的这家建筑公司还承接过达拉姆表演艺术中心(Durham Performing Arts Center)的设计工作。屋内的灯具、家俬、台面和其他布置都是由卡勃罗市西泽·斯普里亚工作室(Sitzer Spuria Studios)的辛迪·斯普里亚(Cindy Spuria)挑选。
The interior is bright and open, with floors of light-colored North Carolina ash, pitched ceilings and walls of glass. The living and dining area is nearly 450 square feet, punctuated by a white brick column with a see-through fireplace. Fixtures include Lutron shades and light fixtures by Artemide; clerestory windows bring in extra sun. The living and dining area opens to a deck and a sunroom. There’s also an office.
屋内明亮宽敞，有浅色的北卡罗来纳灰木地板，倾斜的天花板和几面玻璃墙。这间客厅与餐厅区面积大约450平方英尺（约42平方米），由一根砖砌的白色立柱隔开，这根立柱上还带有一座双面壁炉。室内的灯具包括Lutron的灯罩和Artemide的照明设备；屋内的高侧窗加强了采光。这间客厅与餐厅区通往一处平台和一间阳光房。这里还有一间办公室。
Kitchen features include Lido granite countertops, Pratt & Larson tiles and a custom banquette. Bedrooms are off a hall leading away from the living room. The master bedroom has walls of windows overlooking the grounds. Its bathroom has a glassed-in shower with pale-blue glass-tile walls, as well as a dressing room. Another bedroom has the original wood wall paneling and storage that includes a built-in dresser.
厨房里的一些特色包括Lido的花岗岩台面，Pratt & Larson的瓷砖和一条定制的窗口凳。几间卧室就在客厅外的一条走廊旁边。主卧有几扇大玻璃窗，可以俯瞰地面。主卧浴室里有一间玻璃淋浴房，里面有贴着浅蓝色瓷砖的墙壁，还有一间更衣室。另一间卧室里保留了原来的墙面护壁板，还有一个带嵌壁式衣柜的储藏室。
Downstairs, on a walkout lower level, are a recreation room, a family room, a study and a kitchenette. Here, floors are slate. The study has walls of built-in bookshelves, and is separated from the family room by a columnar brick fireplace similar to the one upstairs. The recreation room opens to a patio.
在楼下步出式的底层有一间休息室、一间家庭娱乐室、一间书房和一间小厨房。这一层的地面铺着石板。这间书房有几面墙的嵌壁式书架，该房间以一座与楼上相似的立柱砖砌壁炉与家庭娱乐室分开。这间休息室通往一处露台。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is 1.26 acres, part wooded, part landscaped by Caroline Siverson, with pebble paths, a lawn, walls of stacked stone and lichen-covered boulders.
户外空间：这处房产占地面积1.26英亩（约5099平方米），部分地方覆盖着树林，部分地方由卡洛琳·西沃森(Caroline Siverson)设计了景观，其中包括几条石径、一片草坪、几面堆砌的石墙和一些覆盖着青苔的岩石。
TAXES: Approximately $10,600 a year
税：每年大约10600美元（约合人民币67788元）。
CONTACT: Chloë Seymore, 501 Realty, (917) 863-5569; 501realty.com
联系方式：Chloë Seymore, 501 Realty, (917) 863-5569;501realty.com
KNOXVILLE, TENN. 
田纳西州诺克斯维尔市(KNOXVILLE, TENN.)
WHAT: A Tudor with three bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms
待售房产：一栋带有三间卧室与两间半浴室的都铎式房屋
HOW MUCH: $1,250,000
价格：125万美元（约合人民币799万元）
SIZE: 3,725 square feet
大小：3725平方英尺（约346平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $336
每平方英尺单价：336美元（每平方米约合人民币2.3万元）
SETTING: This house is on a winding road overlooking the Tennessee River, across the road from an 87-acre park. The neighborhood, Sequoyah Hills, was one of the city’s first suburbs, developed in the 1920s. A shaded walking trail along the median of the road connects to an 18-mile-long network of greenways that runs through the city. Downtown Knoxville and the University of Tennessee campus are about five miles away.
周边环境：这栋房屋坐落在一条蜿蜒的公路旁边，俯瞰着田纳西河(Tennessee River)，这条路的另一侧就是一座面积87英亩（约35公顷）的公园。这座名为塞阔雅·希尔(Sequoyah Hills)的社区是诺克斯维尔市于20世纪20年代最早开发的一批郊区社区之一。沿着这条公路的中间地带，有一条绿树成荫的散步小径连接着一个长达18英里（约29公里）、贯穿这座城市的绿道网络。诺克斯维尔市的市中心与田纳西大学(University of Tennessee)的校园大约相距5英里（约8公里）。
INDOORS: The two-story stone and stucco Tudor was built in 1935 and renovated within the last 20 years. Original features include floors, dark-wood molding, built-ins and a few wooden doors; some period millwork was matched by Ernie Gross, a Knoxville-area woodworker.
室内环境：这栋灰泥粉饰的两层楼石砌都铎式房屋建于1935年，近20年内曾经翻修过。原有的建筑特色包括了地板、乌木装饰线条、嵌壁式家具和几扇木质的房门；诺克斯维尔地区的木工欧尼·格罗斯(Ernie Gross)还给这栋房屋搭配了一些当时流行的木制品。
Most of the first-floor common rooms are separated by arched doorways. The living room has a fireplace; the dining room opens to the patio and pool. The kitchen is part of a large contemporary addition with tiled floors, skylights and rounded walls of glass overlooking the river. The first floor also has a study.
一楼大部分的公共房间都由几个带拱顶的门廊隔开。客厅里有一座壁炉；餐厅通往露台和游泳池。厨房是一间增建的当代风格的大房间的一部分，房间有瓷砖地面、天窗和弧形的玻璃墙，可以俯瞰田纳西河。一楼还有一间书房。
The staircase leading up to the bedrooms is original. The master has river views, and is part of a suite with a bathroom and an office. The bathroom has a soaking tub set under a picture window; the office has a sharply pitched ceiling with tongue-and-groove paneling and river views. French doors in another bedroom open to a small balcony.
这段通往楼上几间卧室的楼梯是原有的设计。可观赏河景的主卧是一个套间的一部分，该套间还有一间浴室和一间办公室。这间浴室有一座沉浸式浴缸安置在一扇取景窗下；这间办公室里有大角度倾斜的天花板和榫槽式契合的护壁板，这里也可以观赏到河景。另一间卧室中的法式双开门通往一座小阳台。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house is on a little over a half acre, with a lawn past the pool. The pool house has an additional bathroom.
户外空间：这栋房屋的占地面积略超半英亩（约2023平方米），游泳池后面有一片草坪。这栋带游泳池的房屋另有一间浴室。
TAXES: Approximately $8,773 a year
税：每年大约8773美元（约合人民币56104元）。
CONTACT: Debbie Holloway, Gables & Gates, Realtors, (865) 777-9191; homesinknoxvilletn.com
联系方式：Debbie Holloway, Gables & Gates, Realtors, (865) 777-9191; homesinknoxvilletn.com