WASHINGTON, D.C.
华盛顿特区(WASHINGTON, D.C.)
WHAT: A Tudor rowhouse with five bedrooms, three full bathrooms and two half-baths
房源：都铎风格联排住宅，带有卧室五间，全浴室三间，半浴室两间
HOW MUCH: $1,249,000
房价：124.9万美元（约合人民币811万元）
SIZE: 2,873 square feet
面积：2873平方英尺（约合267平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $435
单位面积房价：每平方英尺435美元（每平方米约合人民币31367元）
SETTING: This semidetached Tudor rowhouse is in Cathedral Heights, a neighborhood between the Washington National Cathedral and the nearly 200 wooded acres of Glover Archbold Park, about three miles from downtown. The neighborhood is known for its single-family Tudor and Edwardian houses, with some apartments and condos along Wisconsin Avenue. A trail through the park, which is part of the larger Rock Creek Park, extends two miles south to Georgetown University and the Potomac River. The nearest Metro stop is a mile and a half away.
周边环境：这座都铎风格的半独立式联排住宅位于大教堂高地(Cathedral Heights)。大教堂高地是一片社区，位于华盛顿国家大教堂(Washington National Cathedral)和格洛弗·阿奇博尔德公园(Glover Archbold Park) 近200英亩（约合91公顷）的林地之间，距市中心约3英里（约合5公里）。该社区的闻名之处在于建有都铎风格和爱德华风格的单户式住宅，此外，威斯康星大道(Wisconsin Avenue)旁边建有一些单元式住宅和共管公寓。格洛弗·阿奇博尔德公园是岩溪公园(Rock Creek Park)的一部分，在这里，一条穿园而过的步道向南延伸两英里（约合3公里）至乔治敦大学(Georgetown University)和波托马克河(Potomac River)。最近的地铁站在1.5英里（约合2公里）以外。
INDOORS: The four-story house was built in the late 1920s and updated within the last 10 years, retaining most of its original architectural detail. An arched door opens to a side hall, with the living room to the right, followed by the dining room and the kitchen. The living room has a broad bay window facing the street, as well as a gas fireplace with the original plaster mantel and ornate surround. The hardwood flooring throughout is original, as is the raised wall molding in the living room and the decorative door frames.
室内装潢：这座四层住宅建于20世纪20年代末，在过去10年内有所翻新，保留了大部分原有的建筑细节。一扇拱门通向一间侧厅，客厅在右侧，然后是餐厅和厨房。客厅设有一扇临街的大飘窗，配备了一座燃气壁炉，壁炉附带原有的石膏架和华丽边饰。整间屋子的硬木地板是原有的，客厅的凸纹墙面线脚和装饰性门框亦然。
French doors open from the living room into the dining room, which has a coffered ceiling. A second set of French doors opens to an informal dining area in the kitchen, where sliding glass doors open to a deck, creating a sunny corridor from the front of the house to the back. Stainless-steel kitchen appliances, including a Garland range and oven, were installed during renovations; countertops are granite.
客厅的法式对开门通向餐厅，餐厅设有格子天花板。第二对法式对开门通向厨房的一个非正式用餐区，厨房的滑动玻璃门通向一座露台，造就了一道阳光明媚的走廊，从屋前一直延伸到屋后。不锈钢厨房用具，包括一台Garland炉灶与烤箱，都是在装修过程中安装的；台面为花岗岩材质。
Three bedrooms, including the master suite, are on the second floor, as is an office. Most have transoms; one has a wall of built-in cabinetry and is used as a den. The attic is finished, with a bedroom and a half-bathroom.
三间卧室，包括主卧套房，设在二楼，办公室亦然。多数房间有横梁；其中一间设有一墙的嵌入式橱柜，目前被用作私室。阁楼装修完备，带有卧室一间，半浴室一间。
The fifth bedroom is part of a suite on the lower level, which follows the grade of the land. Also downstairs are two storage rooms and a family room with a corner fireplace and a wall of glass that opens to the back patio.
第五间卧室为套房，位于低层，与地面层齐平。同在楼下，还有两间储物室和一间家庭娱乐室，家庭娱乐室设有一座角落壁炉和一面玻璃墙，玻璃墙通向后院。
OUTDOOR SPACE: A side yard and a back patio, as well as two off-street parking spaces.
户外空间：此房产带有一座侧院，一座后院，以及两个街边停车位。
TAXES: $7,860 a year
税：每年7860美元（约合人民币50749元）
CONTACT: Kornelia Stuphan, L & F Christie’s International Real Estate, (202) 669-5555; longandfoster.com
联系方式：Kornelia Stuphan, L & F Christie’s International Real Estate, (202) 669-5555; longandfoster.com
•
OVERLAND PARK, KAN.
堪萨斯，欧弗兰帕克(OVERLAND PARK, KAN.)
WHAT: A contemporary with five bedrooms and five and a half bathrooms
房源：一座现代住宅，带有卧室五间，浴室五间半 
HOW MUCH: $1,275,000
房价：127.5万美元（约合人民币823万元）
SIZE: 5,135 square feet
面积：5135平方英尺（约合477平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $248
单位面积房价：每平方英尺248美元（每平方米约合人民币17789元）
SETTING: Overland Park is a suburb of Kansas City, Mo., about 11 miles from downtown. This house is on a cul-de-sac in a subdivision with about 10 neighbors, all on about three-quarters of an acre. Architecture in the neighborhood ranges from Victorian-style to contemporary, all of it custom, according to the listing agent. The area’s public high school, Blue Valley Northwest, was ranked by Newsweek in 2015 as among the top 500 in the country; the school is within minutes of this house, as is an 18-hole municipal golf club and a 96-acre soccer complex.
周边环境：欧弗兰帕克是密苏里州堪萨斯城的一个郊区，距离市中心约11英里（约合18公里）。此住宅位于一片细分地块的一条独头路上，邻里约有10座住宅，占地均为四分之三英亩（约合0.3公顷）。据经纪机构表示，社区建筑包括从维多利亚式到现代的多种风格，所有住宅都是定制的。该地区的公立高中——蓝谷西北部高中(Blue Valley Northwest)由《新闻周刊》于2015年列入了全国500强；学校距此住宅几分钟之遥，同在附近的还有一家市立18洞高尔夫球俱乐部和一座96英亩（约合39公顷）的足球场馆。
INDOORS: The two-story house, which takes its shape from a traditional American farmhouse, was built in 2000. The exterior is primarily stucco and concrete, with limestone inserts flanking the front door, and walls of glass.
室内装潢：这座两层住宅建于2000年，其形态源自传统的美国农场。外饰主要采用灰泥和混凝土，前门两侧嵌有石灰石，房屋建有多面玻璃墙。
A bright two-story foyer with clerestory windows steps down into a living room with a pitched ceiling and walls of windows rising 20 feet to the lowest point in the pitch. A two-inch band of glass runs vertically through the floor-to-ceiling limestone chimney, designed to catch and focus sunset light; sliding glass doors open to the back deck. Floors in this part of the house are recycled bamboo; shelving is a light-colored oak.
采光充裕的双层挑高门厅带有天窗，从门厅拾级而下，即可进入客厅。客厅采用倾斜天花板，设有落地窗，落地窗高20英尺（约合6米），窗顶已达倾斜天花板的最低点。一道两英寸（约合5厘米）的玻璃带从石灰石落地烟囱当中纵向穿过，这是为了捕捉和聚焦夕阳的光辉；滑动玻璃门通向屋后露台。房屋此处的地板由再生竹制成；搁架采用浅色橡木。
A partial wall separates the living room from the kitchen, whose oak cabinetry echoes the living room’s shelving, all made by C.S. Humphrey & Company in Kansas City. Stainless-steel appliances include a Sub-Zero refrigerator and a Gaggenau range, as well as a built-in Miele espresso maker. The curving breakfast bar that runs along the kitchen island is topped by a copper sheet finished by an auto body shop. The dining room has a glass-brick wall. Between the kitchen and dining area, there’s a wet bar.
一堵半墙将客厅与厨房分割开来，厨房的橡木橱柜与客厅的搁架遥相呼应，它们都由堪萨斯城C.S. Humphrey & Company公司制造。不锈钢器具包括Sub-Zero的冰箱、嘉格纳(Gaggenau)炉灶，以及嵌入式美诺(Miele)咖啡机。弧线形早餐吧台沿着厨房岛台延伸，其顶端覆盖着一块铜制薄板，此薄板加工于一家汽车车身车间。餐厅采用玻璃砖墙。厨房和用餐区之间有一张吧台。
The entry-level master bedroom is part of a suite with a private balcony overlooking the woods. It has three large closets, one walk-in. The spacious master bathroom measures nearly 200 square feet, anchored by a step-up tub in the middle of the room; it can also handle mud baths. There are double sinks and cabinets running along opposing walls. The colorful glass tiles here and in the other bathrooms are from Ann Sacks.
入口层的主卧室为套房，带一座私人阳台，阳台处可俯瞰树林。卧室设有三个大衣柜，其中一个为步入式衣柜。宽敞的主浴室面积近200平方英尺（约合19平方米），主打中心处的一座带台阶浴缸；这里还可以洗泥浆浴。两侧各有水槽和橱柜靠墙而设。这里及其他浴室的彩色玻璃砖购自Ann Sacks。
The other bedrooms are up a steel staircase in the living room, designed by Zahner, a design and fabrication firm in Kansas City. Two have private bathrooms, one with a tub, while another has an office alcove. The other two bedrooms share a connecting bathroom.
从客厅走上一段钢制楼梯，即可进入其他卧室。楼梯的设计方是Zahner——堪萨斯城的一家设计和制造公司。楼上有两间卧室带有私人浴室，其中一间带有浴缸，另一间设有一处壁凹，用作办公间。其余两间卧室共用一间浴室，浴室夹在两者之间。
The basement is finished as a family room, music room and home theater. It has stamped, stained concrete floors. Around the corner is an additional kitchen with stainless-steel appliances, designed by tp://www.kleweno.com/">Kitchens by Kleweno of Kansas City. The bathroom here has an unusual countertop made from petrified wood.
地下室已装修为家庭娱乐室、音乐室和家庭影院。它铺有彩色印花混凝土地板。拐角处另有一间厨房，里面配备不锈钢器具，其设计方是堪萨斯城Kitchens by Kleweno公司。这里的浴室台面较为罕见，由石化木制成。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house is on three-quarters of an acre, edged by woods.
户外空间：此房产占地约三分之一英亩（约合0.13公顷），挨着树林。
TAXES: $8,068 a year, plus a homeowner’s fee of about $950.
税：每年8068美元（约合人民币52406元），另加约950美元（约合人民币6171元）的屋主协会费。
CONTACT: Capri Swanson, Keller Williams Realty Partners, (816) 308-3069; papasinthehouse.com
联系方式：Capri Swanson, Keller Williams Realty Partners, (816) 308-3069; papasinthehouse.com
•
STOWE, VT.
佛蒙特，斯托(STOWE, VT.)
WHAT: A house with five bedrooms and seven bathrooms, with a one-bedroom guest apartment
房源：一座五室七卫住宅，带有一间一室客用公寓
HOW MUCH: $1,300,000
房价：130万美元（约合人民币844万元）
SIZE: 6,134 square feet
面积：6134平方英尺（约合570平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $212
单位面积房价：每平方英尺212美元（约合每平方英尺人民币15300元）
SETTING: Stowe is a ski town in northern Vermont, just east of the Green Mountains. This house is in a local historic district near the center of town, about two blocks from restaurants and shops and seven miles from the slopes, which are surrounded by state forest and trails. The listing agent notes that while mountain and resort properties have long been popular in the area, buyers have more recently started to modernize and preserve older houses in the town’s historic core, like this one, which dates to 1850. A town walking path winds through a lightly wooded area just past the lawn.
周边环境：斯托是佛蒙特州北部的一个滑雪城镇，就在绿山(Green Mountains)以东。此住宅位于当地的一片历史街区，靠近镇中心，距离餐馆和商铺约两个街区，距离滑雪山坡7英里（约合11公里），山坡周围环绕着国家森林和步道。挂牌经纪商指出，虽然山区和度假房产在当地素来很受欢迎，不过购房者最近开始在城镇的历史核心区翻新和保护年代较为久远的住宅，比如这座住宅，其年代可追溯至1850年。一条城镇步道蜿蜒穿过一片稀疏的林区，林区就在草坪另一端。
INDOORS: The house has two wings, the street-side 19th-century section, and a newer addition behind that. These are bridged by a heated three-car garage. Both have full kitchens and living rooms, with broad mountain views throughout.
室内装潢：此住宅有两座耳房，一座临街，建于19世纪；另一座年代相对较新，是之后增建的。将二者相连的，是一间带供暖的车库，里面可以停放三辆车。二者都配备了完整的厨房和客厅，整间屋内都可以观赏广阔的山景。
The older wing retains some of its original architectural detail, including exposed ceiling beams and some wide-board pine floors. The living and dining areas are part of a bright open-plan space with windows on three sides and a brick fireplace in the living area. Many of the windowpanes are the original wavy glass. Kitchen updates include granite countertops, stainless-steel appliances and custom cabinets. The older wing has three bedrooms.
年代较为久远的耳房保留了部分原有的建筑细节，包括裸露的天花板横梁和一些宽板松木地板。起居和用餐区位于一片采光充裕的开放式空间内，三面有窗，起居区设有一座砖砌壁炉。许多窗玻璃为原有的波浪形玻璃。厨房的翻新包括添置了花岗岩台面、不锈钢用具和定制橱柜。年代较为久远的耳房带有三间卧室。
Common areas in the newer wing are on an open floor plan with brick floors and a large wood-burning fireplace. The fireplace has a brick surround and a simple wood mantel with some decorative paneling.
在年代较新的耳房内，公共区域采用开放式格局，铺有地砖，设有一座大型燃木壁炉。壁炉带有砖砌边饰，采用简约的木制壁炉架，搭配一些装饰性镶板。
French doors built into a wall of glass open to a stone patio, while a bay window in a dining nook takes advantage of mountain views. An island separates the living and dining areas from the kitchen, which has granite countertops and stainless-steel appliances, as well as wood cabinets in the same blue-gray as the mantel in the living area.
法式对开门嵌于玻璃墙内，通向一座石砌庭院，用餐角落的飘窗坐拥山景。一张岛台将起居区和用餐区与厨房分隔开来，厨房配备花岗岩台面、不锈钢器具和实木橱柜，橱柜为蓝灰色，和起居区的壁炉架色调一样。
The newer wing has two bedrooms upstairs, including a large suite with a fireplace and a pitched beamed ceiling, as well as a small sitting area. A hallway leads into a bright family room over the garage with windows on opposing walls. The lower-level apartment is an open-plan space with a kitchen, a wood stove and glass doors opening up to a patio.
年代较新的耳房有两间卧室设在楼上，包括一间大套房。套房配备一座壁炉，采用带横梁的倾斜天花板，设有一小片休息区。走廊通向一间采光充裕的家庭娱乐室，家庭娱乐室位于车库楼上，其窗户设在相对而立的墙上。低层公寓为开放式空间，设有一间厨房和一个柴炉，其玻璃门通向一座露台。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house is on 0.57 acre, with stone walls and a lawn edged by trees.
户外空间：此住宅占地0.57英亩（约合0.23公顷），设有多面石墙和一片草坪，草坪边缘生长着树木。
TAXES: $20,136 a year
税：每年20136美元（约合人民币130793元）
CONTACT: Brydon Beasant and Sharon Bateman, Pall Spera Company Realtors, (802) 793-4110 / (802) 253-1806; thebatemangrouprealtors.com
联系方式：Brydon Beasant and Sharon Bateman, Pall Spera Company Realtors, (802) 793-4110 / (802) 253-1806; thebatemangrouprealtors.com