NEW DELHI — Those wishing to know the secret desires of the people of Delhi can find them here, in petitions pinned to the wall of a 14th-century castle, addressed to supernatural beings created of smokeless fire.
新德里——如果想知道印度德里人的私密愿望，在这里可以找到答案：在这座建于14世纪的城堡的墙壁上，钉满了祈愿信，那是写给由无烟之火创造的神灵的。
The people who pour into Firoz Shah Kotla every Thursday hold a variety of views about the djinn, or genies, wish-fulfilling but capricious creatures described in Islamic cosmology and “The Arabian Nights.”
每周四，人群如潮水般涌入菲罗兹沙古堡(Firoz Shah Kotla)。对于伊斯兰教旨和《一千零一夜》中描绘的可以满足愿望的神秘莫测的精灵(djinn)，他们有着各自的看法。
There are those who believe that djinn take the form of talking crows, or airborne fireballs, or bearded men in white robes. Some contend that they number 40,000, and that they have their own prime minister, or that they register their presence with a peculiar scent.
有些人认为，精灵能化身为会说话的乌鸦、空中飞来飞去的火球，或是身披白袍的长须长者。另一些则主张，神灵有四万之多，也拥有自己的总理，或以特殊的气息彰显着他们的踪迹。
Everyone agrees that djinn are very fast readers, which is good, because by sunset on Thursdays, when the humans stream out of the castle onto the Grand Trunk Road and leave the premises to their rightful owners, they are drowning in paperwork.
大家一致认为精灵读东西飞快。这是幸事一桩。因为当周四夜暮降临，人潮散去、重回大干路，将城堡还归其主时，精灵们会被大量的请愿信淹没。
“Oh Allah, my sister should never talk nonsense and should not answer back,” reads one letter, left for a famously magnanimous djinn known as Nanhe Miyan, or “Little Mister.”
“哦，安拉，我的姐妹不该再瞎说，也不该回嘴，”一封信上这样写道。信是留给一位名叫“小先生” (Nanhe Miyan)的待人宽宏的精灵的。
One female applicant, after some prefatory flattery, asks Little Mister to knock down the charges against her sons so that they can make bail. Another asks the djinn to provide for the construction of a new latrine, and also to do something about her husband’s disposition.
另一名女请愿人，在写完开篇的奉承话后，请求“小先生”减轻她的几个儿子受到的指控，让他们得到保释。另一人则请求精灵，帮助修建一座新的厕所，同时改变她丈夫的性格。
“Please seal his lips,” the letter reads. “He spits dirty abuses. He should become gentle and stop consuming liquor. He should not keep bad company. He wastes money like anything.”
“请封上他的嘴，”信上写道。“他口出恶言，挥霍无度。希望他变得和善，不再酗酒。不再与恶人为伍。”
And so it goes. A woman clad all in white, who estimates her age at 80, or possibly 90, visits every Thursday to petition for improvements in her “three nasty daughters-in-law.” A snub-nosed tailor from Old Delhi visits when he is racking his brain, unable to complete an especially difficult dress, and wondering why he calls himself a tailor at all.
如此种种。一位自称耄耋之年的全身素白的老妇人，每周四都会前来祈祷，希望她那“三个坏媳妇”改邪归正。一个来自旧德里的塌鼻子的裁缝，每当绞尽脑汁也没法裁剪出一件特别难做的衣服、沮丧自己不配成为裁缝的时候，都会前来祈祷。
“When I go home, I find that I can make the dress,” he said happily. “That happens because of the djinn.”
“我回家后，就发现能做出那件衣服了，”他开心地说。“这完全是精灵的功劳。”
Delhi has been reinvented so many times by so many powers that it can be difficult to know where its heart is — in the edifices left behind by the British or the austere medieval tombs of the Mughals. By comparison, there is nothing so extraordinary about the ruins of the castle, built by the sultan Firoz Shah Tughlaq, now squeezed between a cricket stadium and the Ring Road, except that they have survived the metastasis of the city for 700 years.
德里曾无数次在不同政权手中跌宕变换。很难决定，究竟是英国人留下的宏伟建筑，还是莫卧儿王朝留下的中世纪古朴陵墓，更能代表这座城市的灵魂。相比之下，这座城堡由图格鲁克王朝苏丹菲罗兹沙(Firoz Shah Tughlaq)修建，它的废墟如今挤在一座板球场和环路当中，除了历经这座城市七百年的变幻风云，也并没有那么非同寻常。
But if you sit long enough on a Thursday, you can see the past in living people. Anand Vivek Taneja, an anthropologist at Vanderbilt University who is writing a book about djinn veneration here, traces the letter-writing tradition to a form of governance that was common in 14th-century Delhi, when royal guards were removed and subjects were allowed to enter the palace to directly petition the Tughlaq sultan.
在周四，若坐得久些，便可以从此刻的人群身上感受到历史的痕迹。范德比尔特大学(Vanderbilt University)大学的人类学专家阿南达·维维克·塔内加(Anand Vivek Taneja)正在写一本关于此处精灵崇拜的著作。他将写信请愿的传统追溯至14世纪的德里，当时这是一种常见的统治形式。彼时，皇家侍卫会让开戍守的大门，让庶民进入皇宫，直接向图格鲁克王朝的苏丹请愿。
Among the most faithful is Shyam Lal, 63, who has been coming on Thursdays for 45 years. He credits the djinn with a series of wondrous occurrences, including the great luck of getting a job with the Railways in 1973 and the blessing of his retirement in 2012. He acknowledged, with a shrug, that he is Hindu, as are many of the visitors.
63岁的希亚姆·拉尔(Shyam Lal)是最虔诚的请愿人之一，他45年来每周四都会来到这里。他将很多神奇事件归功于精灵，比如精灵让他行了大运，帮他在1973年得到印度铁路公司的一份工作，并保佑他在2012年顺利退休。他耸耸肩承认，像很多来访者一样，他是印度教教徒。
“I know djinn are Muslim, but I have faith,” he said. “I don’t care. The distinctions are meaningless.”
“我知道精灵是穆斯林，但我有信仰，”他说。“我不在乎。这种区别没什么意义。”
Last year, after his son and daughter-in-law were catastrophically wounded in a motorcycle accident, Mr. Lal’s requests to the djinn were reduced to one: That, though his daughter-in-law had died, his son, Deepak, a 34-year-old software executive, should somehow live. To pay for treatment, Mr. Lal sold his house. He lost 37 pounds. He came to the djinn every Thursday.
去年，他的儿子和儿媳在摩托车事故中严重受伤，拉尔将向精灵提出的愿望减少到一个：尽管儿媳丧了命，他希望儿子迪帕克(Deepak)——34岁的软件公司高管——能活下来。为了支付治疗费用，拉尔卖掉了房子。他的体重减轻了37磅，每周四都前来向精灵祈愿。
In March, after Mr. Lal had emptied his savings to pay for 10 months of care, Deepak died. Asked if the djinn had failed him, Mr. Lal replied that the thought had not occurred to him. Instead, he noted a piece of amazing luck. On the day of the accident, perhaps because it was so hot, his son and daughter-in-law had left their baby at home.
今年3月，在拉尔花光积蓄，支付了10个月的医疗费用后，迪帕克最终离世。当被问及是否对精灵感到失望时，拉尔回答，他从未这样想过。相反，他指出了一个神奇的幸运之处。发生事故的那一天，可能是因为天太热，他的儿子和儿媳将年幼的孩子留在了家中。
“We see our son in that child,” he said. “We spend the whole day with him.”
“看到那孩子就好像看到了儿子，”他说，“我们整天都跟他待在一起。”
It was getting late. Shadows were slanting down over the blackened walls of the castle, and in a row of cavernous, smoke-filled alcoves where people go to establish contact with the djinn, bats chirped at frequencies inaudible to the human ear. Mr. Lal stirred and rose to his feet; he was expected home for dinner.
天色渐晚。阴影覆盖到被熏黑的城堡墙壁上，一排排烟雾缭绕的幽深龛窟，是人与精灵联络的地方，蝙蝠发出人耳几乎听不到的鸣叫。拉尔站了起来；家人在等他吃晚饭。