Rupert Murdoch has filed for divorce from his wife of 14 years, Wendi Deng Murdoch, with whom he has two daughters, according to a filing with New York State Supreme Court.
根据纽约州最高法院(New York State Supreme Court)接到的一份申请，鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)已经申请与结婚14年的妻子邓文迪离婚，两人育有两个女儿。
A spokeswoman for Mr. Murdoch’s media company, News Corporation, confirmed that Mr. Murdoch had made the filing, which said that the “relationship between husband and wife has broken down irretrievably.”
默多克的媒体公司新闻集团(News Corporation)的女发言人确认默多克已经提交了离婚申请书，申请书写道，“夫妻关系已经破裂，无法挽回。”
Mrs. Murdoch was informed in advance of Mr. Murdoch’s decision, according to a person close to the family. Ira E. Garr of the law firm Garr Silpe is representing Mr. Murdoch in the divorce.
据一名与默多克家关系亲密的人士透露，在默多克做出决定前，邓文迪已提前获得通知。此次，加尔·希尔泊律所(Garr Silpe)的艾拉·E·加尔(Ira E. Garr)将担任默多克的离婚律师。
The filing — which was first reported by Deadline Hollywood — comes after years of whispered comments that the couple had largely grown apart, pursuing separate interests, often from different coasts.
网站“好莱坞截稿时间”（Deadline Hollywood）最先爆出了默多克申请离婚的消息。此前，有关夫妇二人已在很大程度上各自生活的小道消息已经传播多年。传言称，他们经常在不同的海岸追求各自的利益。
Mr. Murdoch, 82, first met Wendi Deng, 44, on a business trip to China when she was a young executive at his company’s Star TV division in Hong Kong. They wed in front of 82 guests in 1999 aboard Mr. Murdoch’s 155-foot yacht, the Morning Glory, in New York Harbor.
82岁的默多克与44岁的邓文迪第一次相见是在去往中国的一次商务旅行中，邓文迪当时是星空卫视 (Star TV)香港分公司的一名年轻管理人员，星空卫视属于默多克的公司。两人于1999年结婚，有82名宾客参加了他们在纽约港举办的婚礼。婚礼的具体地点是默多克的Morning Glory游艇，该游艇长达155英尺（约合47米）。
A year before they were married, Mr. Murdoch left his wife, Anna, to whom he had been married for 31 years. That divorce is reported to have cost Mr. Murdoch $1.7 billion, including $110 million in cash. He and Anna had three children — Lachlan, James and Elisabeth. Mr. Murdoch divorced his first wife, Patricia, in 1967. They had one daughter, Prudence.
他们结婚前一年，默多克离开了与他结婚31年的妻子安娜(Anna)。据报道，默多克为此付出了17亿美元（约合104亿元人民币）的代价，其中包括1.1亿美元的现金。默多克和安娜育有三个孩子——拉克伦(Lachlan)、詹姆斯(James)和伊丽莎白(Elisabeth)。1967年，默多克与自己的第一任妻子帕特里夏(Patricia)离婚。两人育有一个女儿——普鲁登丝(Prudence)。
The divorce from Wendi Murdoch and decisions about the place the couple’s daughters, Grace, 11, and Chloe, 9, will have in Mr. Murdoch’s media empire are expected to be contentious.
据预计，与邓文迪离婚一事，以及夫妇二人的两个女儿——11岁的格雷丝(Grace)和9岁的克洛艾(Chloe)——将在默多克的媒体帝国中处于何种位置，都将成为颇有争议的话题。
In 2006, a battle broke out when Mr. Murdoch said in a TV interview with Charlie Rose that Grace and Chloe would have an equal economic interest in the family’s trust, but would not have the same voting rights as his children from his previous two marriages. The couple worked out a more mutually acceptable agreement.
2006年，默多克在查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)的电视采访中说，格雷丝和克洛艾将在家族的信托基金中享有平等的经济利益，但不享有与他之前两次婚姻中的子女相同的投票权。夫妇二人由此发生争执，后来又协商制定了一个双方都更容易接受的协议。
In recent years, Mrs. Murdoch, who was born to humble beginnings as Deng Wen Di in Jiangsu Province in eastern China, has taken on a wider range of professional endeavors, including producing the movie “Snow Flower and the Secret Fan.” The movie was released by News Corporation’s Fox Searchlight division in July 2011 and was eclipsed when news surfaced that Mr. Murdoch’s British tabloid News of the World tabloid had hacked into the voice mail of Milly Dowler, a kidnapped and murdered teenager.
邓文迪出身于中国东部省份江苏省的一个普通家庭。近年来，她开始在事业上进行更广泛的尝试，如制作电影《雪花秘扇》等。2011年7月，新闻集团(News Corporation)旗下的福克斯探照灯(Fox Searchlight)发行了这部电影。然而，当新闻爆出默多克的英国小报《世界新闻报》(News of the World)曾利用非法手段进入被绑架后遭杀害的少女米莉·道勒(Milly Dowler)的语音信箱后，邓文迪的电影便被抢去了风头。
Mrs. Murdoch became a viral sensation during the phone hacking crisis when Mr. Murdoch testified in front of a British parliamentary subcommittee about the scandal. Wearing a pink blazer, Mrs. Murdoch, a former volleyball player, instinctively lurched toward a protester to protect her husband from a pie attack.
在默多克因窃听丑闻在英国议会小组委员会接受质询的时候，邓文迪成了这场电话窃听危机中快速蹿红的风头人物。当一名抗议者试图用蛋糕袭击默多克时，身着粉色上衣的前排球运动员邓文迪本能地扑向这名袭击者，为的是保护丈夫。
The News Corporation spokeswoman said the divorce would have no impact on the company. On June 28, the corporation will complete the split of its publishing and entertainment assets into two separate companies, to be called News Corp and 21st Century Fox, respectively.
新闻集团的女发言人说，离婚不会对公司造成影响。6月28日，新闻集团将完成把旗下出版和娱乐产业分拆成两个独立公司，这两家公司将分别名为新闻集团(News Corp)和21世纪福克斯(21st Century Fox)。