Lawrence F. Gall, an entomologist at the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale, bushwhacked his way through the muddy thickets leading to the River Road colony here, the epicenter of what is believed to be the world’s only preserve dedicated to Magicicada septendecim, the 17-year periodical cicada.
耶鲁大学(Yale University)皮博迪自然历史博物馆(Peabody Museum of Natural History)的昆虫学家劳伦斯·F·加尔(Lawrence F. Gall)在一片泥泞的灌木丛中开路，这片灌木林通向本地的河路地区，该地区据信是全世界唯一一个专门保护十七年蝉（又称周期蝉。——译注）的保护区的中心地带。
“They’re super-de-duper dense,” he observed, examining some of the roughly one million cicada nymphs that call this place home — about 1,500 to 2,000 of them per square yard.
“它们的分布非常密集，”他观察到。这里有大约100万只若虫，每平方码（约0.84平方米）大约1500到2000只，他研究了其中的部分若虫。
Just in time for graduation, the East Coast from Connecticut to northern Georgia is alive with newly emerging adults — only they make far more of a racket than the ones in caps and gowns. It is 17-year-cicada season, and grown men like Dr. Gall — who as a boy would get up in the middle of the night at summer camp to collect moths under a bathroom light — may be seen crawling on their hands and knees to confront insects with vermilion eyes, black thoraxes and golden gossamer wings, the sharp, entomological equivalent of a zoot suit.
正好赶上毕业，从康涅狄格州到乔治亚州北部的东海岸到处是刚刚长大的成虫，只有它们能比那些戴着学位帽、身穿学位服的毕业生还要喧闹。这是十七年禅的季节。人们可能会看到，像加尔这样的成年人趴在地上，正对着红眼睛、黑胸脯且有着金色轻薄羽翼的十七年蝉，它们完全就是昆虫学里的阻特服(zoot suit)一族。孩提时代的加尔参加夏令营时，会在半夜就着浴室的灯光收集飞蛾。
Over two to three weeks, periodical cicada nymphs, which have the longest developmental cycle of any insect, emerge from the ground after 17 years of sucking xylem from tree roots to molt into adults. They latch on to stable vertical surfaces — trees, telephone poles, rural mailboxes — to shed their exoskeletons, a tricky gymnastic maneuver.
十七年蝉若虫的发展周期是所有昆虫中最长的。在树根木质部吮吸了17年的汁液后，若虫会在两到三周的时间里从地下冒出来，蜕皮变成成年蝉。它们会附着在稳固的垂直表面，比如树木、电话线杆、农村地区的邮箱，以便蜕去外壳，这是一件复杂且又耗费体力的事情。
Five days later, their wings elongated, their bodies pumped and tan, the cicadas are ready to make music together — the males congregating to sing together in chorus, usually on high, sunlit branches; the females flicking their wings in response. Thus begins a complex and deafening courtship, each cicada a tiny bit of drama.
五天后，它们的翅膀会变长，身体会变大，变成褐色，这些蝉已经准备好要一起奏乐了。雄蝉会聚集起来，一起歌唱，它们通常会停歇在高高的、能晒着太阳的树枝上；母蝉会扇动翅膀作为回应。于是，一种复杂、震耳欲聋的求爱便开始了，每一只十七年蝉都会演奏出一出小型戏剧。
Although Connecticut lies at the northern fringes of this year’s emergence, known collectively as Brood II, the state is hallowed ground for cicada history and scholarship. The Peabody Museum, where the exhibition “Return of the 17-Year Cicadas!” is on display until Sept. 3, contains specimens of Magicicada septendecim from 1843, the oldest at any museum.
今年出现的是一种统一被称作布鲁德2号群蝉(Brood II)的十七年蝉，尽管康涅狄格州地处其活动区域的最北边，却是蝉的历史和学术圣地。皮博迪正在举行名为《十七年蝉的回归！》(Return of the 17-Year Cicadas!)的展出，展出将持续到9月3日。该博物馆收藏着1843年的十七年蝉标本，是所有博物馆藏品中最古老的。
The preserve (not open to the public) is on 90 acres of land owned by the South Central Connecticut Regional Water Authority, just north of Sleeping Giant State Park, a popular hiking spot. It was the brainchild of Charles Lee Remington, a longtime professor at Yale who was the Peabody’s first curator of entomology.
保护区位于一片90英亩（约合36.4公顷）的土地上，不向公众开放。土地的所有人是康涅狄格州中南地区水务局(South Central Connecticut Regional Water Authority)，就在远足的热门去处——沉睡巨人州立公园(Sleeping Giant State Park)的北边。将这个区域划为保护区的主意来自在耶鲁大学(Yale University)担任教授多年的查尔斯·李·雷明顿(Charles Lee Remington)，他也是皮博迪博物馆的首位昆虫学策展人。
Though a pioneering lepidopterist, Dr. Remington did much to popularize the periodical cicada, once organizing a tasting at the Peabody and creating his own recipes. His popular class, “The Biology of Terrestrial Arthropods,” inspired generations of scientists, who would go on to study not only cicadas but butterfly genetics, cave crickets and the ant ecology of the Thimble Islands in Long Island Sound, to name a few.
身为鳞翅昆虫学先驱的雷明顿博士还为推广十七年蝉的知识做了大量工作。他曾经还在皮博迪组织了一次品尝会，调制了自己的菜谱。他的《陆地节肢动物生物学》(Terrestrial Arthropods)课程很受欢迎，启发了一代又一代科学家，这些科学家不仅会继续研究蝉，还会研究蝴蝶遗传学、洞穴蟋蟀、长岛海湾顶针岛的蚂蚁生态等。
Dr. Remington, who died in 2007, appreciated the thoughtful gesture, like a box of mounted cockroach specimens from Ghana sent by a former student, Leonard E. Munstermann, the Peabody’s current head curator of entomology. “He had a particular flare for extinct and endangered creatures at the edge of their range,” said Dr. Gall, another of his protégés. “Cicadas have an extraordinary and intriguing lifestyle, even for insects.”
雷明顿博士于2007年离世。他对一些体贴周到的做法很感激，比如，他以前的学生、皮博迪博现任昆虫学总策展人伦纳德·E·芒斯特曼(Leonard E. Munstermann)就曾经从加纳寄来了一箱裱好的蟑螂标本。“他对绝种或是处于濒危边缘的物种特别感兴趣，”同是他的学生的加尔博士说。“即便对昆虫而言，蝉的生活方式也很特别，很有趣。”
Dr. Remington established the Magicicada Preserve a year before the 1996 emergence, to protect what he viewed as “an endangered phenomenon.” He visited his forest frequently, writing elaborate field notes by hand that sometimes transcended cicadas.
在周期蝉1996年破土而出的前一年，雷明顿博士建立了周期蝉蝉保护区(Magicicada Preserve)，旨在保护他所说的“一种濒危的现象”。他频繁去自己那片森林，用手写下详尽的实地笔记，有时不仅限于周期蝉。
On April 26, 1996, for instance, he helped an 85-year-old man who had fallen on the trail. “Left leg crumpled & he cut face falling,” he wrote. “Remembered 2 Magicicada hatches (‘Noise Extremely Loud’).”
比如，1996年4月26日，他就帮助了一个摔倒在小路上的85岁男子。“他左腿受伤了，摔倒时脸还划破了，”他写道，“记得两处蝉窝（‘噪音非常大’）。”
Today, scientists from the Cicada Molecular Systematics Lab at the University of Connecticut are using GIS-GPS technology to map Magicicada populations with an accuracy unimaginable when the preserve was founded — some 10,000 individual locations so far (including the hot-off-the-press discovery of a Brood II pocket in northeastern Georgia, posted on the project’s Web site, magicicada.org).
现在，来自康涅狄格大学(University of Connecticut)蝉分子系统学实验室(Cicada Molecular Systematics Lab)的科学家正在用地理信息系统-全球定位系统(GIS-GPS)技术绘制周期蝉种群的地图，其准确性是当年建立保护区时无法想象的。迄今为止，已经发现了大约1万个独立的地方（包括媒体最新报道在乔治亚州东北部发现的一小批布鲁德2号群蝉，相关内容发布在了该项目的网站magicicada.org上）。
One of those scientists is John R. Cooley, who studied with Dr. Remington as an undergraduate. He has become the Alan Lomax of cicadas, recording and analyzing their songs. He and other University of Connecticut researchers are comparing GIS-GPS to crowd-sourcing data from citizen scientists, an effort called Cicada Watch, to map emergences at the margins.
本科时师从雷明顿博士的约翰·R·库利(John R. Cooley)便是这些科学家中的一位。他已经成了蝉收集领域的艾伦·洛马克斯(Alan Lomax)，会录下并分析蝉的歌声。他和康涅狄格大学的其他研究人员正在比对通过地理信息系统-全球定位系统技术得到的数据和通过向大量民间科学家求助得来的数据，这项工作被称作观蝉(Cicada Watch)，旨在通过比较更精确地绘制出十七年蝉出现地区的地图。
In creating the Magicicada Preserve in Hamden, Dr. Remington wanted to raise awareness of cicadas and their special biology in an untouched habitat, said the University of Connecticut lab’s founder, Chris Simon, a professor of ecology and evolutionary biology. “He could see that their territory was being taken away,” she said.
蝉分子分类学实验室创始人克里斯·西蒙博士(Chris Simon)称，通过在哈姆登成立周期蝉保护区，雷明顿博士希望能在一片未被破坏的地区提高人们对周期蝉及其特殊的生物学知识的认识。“他当时可能看到，它们的领地正在遭受掠夺，”身为生态学及进化生态学教授的她说。
Although it may seem counterintuitive, periodical cicada populations have been shrinking and even disappearing. The reasons, scientists suggest, have to do with climate change and land development. Among the endangered populations is Brood VII, in upstate New York, now largely restricted to the Onondaga Nation south of Syracuse. On Long Island, a Walmart in Port Jefferson Station was built on top of a large cicada population, Dr. Simon said.
你可能想象不到，但周期蝉的种群数量正在减少甚至灭绝。科学家表示，原因和气候变化以及土地开发有关。濒危种群中包括纽约州北部的布鲁德7号群蝉(Brood VII)，这种蝉现在主要只出现在锡拉丘兹市南边的奥农多加。西蒙博士说， 在长岛杰弗逊港站一座沃尔玛(Walmart)所在地曾生活着大量的周期蝉。
Chris T. Maier, an entomologist with the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station, said that between 1945 and 1979, the state lost roughly 5 percent of its cicada population, much of it as a result of Interstate System highway development.
康涅狄格农业试验站(Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station)的昆虫学家克里斯·T·梅尔(Chris T. Maier)说，在1945年至1979年期间，康涅狄格州蝉的数量减少了5%，大部分是开发州际公路系统(Interstate System)的结果。
Among the mysteries as yet unsolved, Dr. Simon said, is the “internal clock that lets them count the passing of years and the genetic control mechanism for when they arrive early or late.” Those growing up in suburban Chicago, as this writer did, may recall the emergence of Brood XIII in 1969, four years early, blanketing verdant summer lawns with exoskeletons that made a satisfying crunch when walked upon, like spilled popcorn at a movie theater.
西蒙博士提到了一些未解之谜，其中包括“它们体内在计算已经过去了几年时间的时钟，还有决定它们早或晚于预定时间出现的基因控制机制”。那些和本文作者一样在芝加哥郊区长大的蝉可能会让人想起1969年出现的布鲁德13号群蝉(Brood XIII)，它们的出现提前了四年。在那个夏天，葱绿的草坪上全是它们蜕下的外骨骼，踩上去会发出令人愉快的嘎吱声，就像在电影院里踩上溢出来的爆米花一样。
A major goal of the mapping projects is to develop a baseline for future researchers so that population loss can be tracked.
绘图项目的主要目的是为将来的研究人员制定一条基线，以便跟踪周期蝉种群的规模缩减情况。
Dr. Simon laments the telephone calls she receives from freaked-out suburbanites wanting to get rid of their cicadas. “It’s crazy,” she said. “They’re only inconvenienced for two weeks every 17 years.”
被吓坏了的郊区居民给西蒙博士打来电话，想除掉周围的蝉，这让他很不满。“太荒唐了，”她说，“它们每17年才不过带给你两周的不便。”