It took Adam Reed Tucker several exhausting months to build what he considers the masterwork of his career, up to this point. In fact, what he built was the masterwork of Frank Lloyd Wright’s career, only with tiny plastic bricks.
亚当·里德·塔克(Adam Reed Tucker)筋疲力竭地付出了数月心血，才将他心目中的大师杰作搭建成现在的样子。其实，他所打造的是弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)的杰作，只不过，是用小小塑料积木搭建成的。
Mr. Tucker, 43, was once a practicing architect, but when the financial crisis hit and his business dried up, he became the Howard Roark of Legos. Now he builds scale models of world-famous skyscrapers and creates structures for corporate clients like Snap-on Tools and eBay. His latest project is a model of Taliesin West, Wright’s winter home and school in Scottsdale, Ariz. The model was commissioned by the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation, and is scheduled to be unveiled there on Thursday.
塔克今年43岁，曾是一名执业建筑师，但是当金融危机袭来，生意做不下去的时候，他就成了乐高公司(Legos)里的霍华德·洛克（Howard Roark，小说《源泉》[Fountainhead]的主人公，一个不得志的建筑师——译注）。如今，他的工作是制作世界著名摩天大楼的等比例模型，并为实耐宝(Snap-on Tools)、eBay等企业客户创作迷你建筑。他最新的项目是制作赖特的冬日住所和建筑学校——位于亚利桑那州斯科茨代尔(Scottsdale)的西塔里耶森(Taliesin West)的模型。该模型由弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特基金会(Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation)委托制作，拟于周四（1月8日——译注）发布。
As one of only a dozen Lego certified builders in the world, Mr. Tucker must grapple with the demands of scale, the limitations of his chosen material and the perception that Legos are a toy, which aggrieves him.
作为全世界仅有的12名乐高认证建筑师之一，塔克有三个问题必须解决：压缩比例的需要、所选材料的局限性，以及乐高作为玩具的定位，最后一点让他感到苦恼。
He does not consider his efforts to be child’s play: To replicate the sprawling Taliesin West, he used 180,000 Lego brick pieces in 11 colors. He built the 6-by-8-foot model in his studio in Arlington Heights, Ill., and had it transported by truck to Scottsdale, where it will remain on display in the Pavilion at Taliesin West through April.
他并不把自己苦心完成的作品看做儿童玩具：为了复制西塔里耶森，他用到了18万块乐高积木，共有11种颜色。这件6×8英尺（约合1.8×2.4米）的模型，是他在伊利诺伊州阿灵顿高地(Arlington Heights)的工作室里建造、再用卡车运到斯科茨代尔。直到四月，他的模型将一直陈列在西塔里耶森的展馆内。
Despite the housing rebound, Mr. Tucker said he has no plans to return to human-scale architecture, calling Lego modeling “my life’s work.” He spoke to a reporter during the final deadline rush to complete the Wright commission.
虽然住房市场在回暖，但塔克说，他并不打算重操旧业。用他的话说，制作乐高模型是“我一生的工作”。为完成赖特基金会的委托，他正在加急赶工。在此期间，他接受了记者的采访。
Q. What does it take to be a professional Lego modeler?
问：怎样才能成为一名专业的乐高建模师(modeler)？
A. You have to be an artisan. You have to be creative. You have to be able to interpret subject matter into brick form. In my mind, I have a catalog of over 14,000 unique shapes. I know every single shape Lego has ever made, and the colors those shapes are available in. I look at Taliesin West and I can break it down in my head and figure out the techniques to build it.
答：你必须是个手艺人。你必须具备创造力。你必须有能力把作品题材诠释成积木的形式。我在脑子里记住了超过14000块形状独特的积木。我知道乐高每一款积木的形状，也知道这些形状所对应的颜色。我看着西塔里耶森，就可以在大脑里将它解构，再想办法通过各种技术重新构建它。
As a Lego Certified Professional, do you get your Legos free?
问：作为一名获乐高认证的专家，你得到的乐高积木是免费的吗？
We’re allowed to purchase the parts at an employee discount. I can order as many as the budget allows. But last night, I needed a piece that was a 1-inch by 4-inch slope, and I needed it in dark red. That part was only made in two Lego sets. One of them was the Star Wars V-Wing Starfighter. I had to run around to seven Toys “R” Us stores and three Walmarts. I ended up spending $435 to get 16 pieces. I’m not going to suffer an aesthetic situation.
答：我们可以按员工折扣购价买积木。只要在预算范围内，我想订购多少都可以。但是昨晚，我需要一块1英寸×4英寸（约合2.5×10厘米）的坡道积木，而且颜色必须是暗红色的。这块积木只有两款乐高玩具里才有，其中之一是星球大战的V翼星际战斗机(the Star Wars V-Wing Starfighter)。我不得不跑了7家玩具反斗城(Toys “R” Us)门店和三家沃尔玛。最后为16块积木花了435美元（约合人民币2718元）。我可不想让作品的美感被破坏。
How do Legos stack up as a building material?
问：乐高积木是如何变成一种建筑材料的？
It has benefits. You don’t have to wait for glue to dry. You can snap and unsnap them. The problem is the stigma that it’s a boy’s toy. When I bring Taliesin West out to Scottsdale, there will be a bunch of architects and critics there who will think it’s going to look like their son built it. I will sit there and be silent. I’m using a toy product as a three-dimensional creative medium.
答：它有它的好处。你不必等待胶水干燥。你可以把它们扣紧或分开。问题是，它总背负着男孩玩具的名声。等我把西塔里耶森的模型带到斯科茨代尔，就会有一群建筑师和评论人到场。他们会觉得，自家小孩建出来的模型就会是这个效果。我会坐在那里保持沉默。我是在用玩具产品作为三维创作的媒介。
Do you ever modify the pieces?
问：你有没有修改过积木？
There’s a debate about that. Some people are purists. Some people will cut or glue pieces. I strive to avoid modifying any pieces. But if the model is small enough, in terms of the scale, detail and proportions, and there’s an aspect of the structure that is so identifiable you can’t remove it, then I have had to modify. I’d say I do it 1 percent of the time. I don’t condone it.
答：关于这个问题是有争论的。有的人是纯粹主义者，有的人则会切割或粘连积木。我努力避免对它们做出任何修改。但是，如果模型的规格、细节和比例小到一定程度，而且其原型建筑上又有某个不可或缺的标志性特征，那么我就必须修改积木了。可以说，我只有在1%的情况下会这么做。我不大能容忍这种做法。
Has it been tough to replicate one of Frank Lloyd Wright’s masterworks?
问：复原弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特的一大杰作是不是很难？
This has been the most challenging model I’ve ever done. The architecture is so radical: the topography, the walkways, the different reflecting pools. There are so many level changes. At first I told Sean Malone, the president and C.E.O. of the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation, it wasn’t going to happen. I’m a pretty confident guy, but I was apprehensive. It has to be amazing or I won’t associate my name with it. My reputation is everything.
答：这是我做过的最具挑战性的模型。这座建筑太极端了：从它的地形、那些步道，还有不同的倒影池中就可以看出这点。它的变化层次太过丰富。一开始，我就告诉弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特基金会的总裁兼首席执行官肖恩·马龙(Sean Malone)，这个模型不可能做得出来。我是一个非常自信的人，但我也有顾虑。做出来的模型一定要令人惊艳，否则，我就不想让自己的名字跟它扯上关系了。名声是我的一切。
So what convinced you that you could pull it off?
问：那是什么让你确信，你可以把它做出来了呢？
I spent about two weeks just studying the building. Like a Rubik’s Cube. I was slowly able to solve this corner, solve that intersection, solve this detail. I got my hands dirty with the bricks.
答：我花了大约两星期时间来研究这座建筑。它就像一个魔方。我慢慢摸出了门道，知道怎么构建这个角落、那个路口、这处细节。我用积木进行了各种各样的尝试。