The New York Times has the biggest newsroom at 620 Eighth Avenue. But not the only one.
《纽约时报》拥有第八大道620号大楼内最大的新闻编辑室。但那并不是唯一的一间。
Most Times employees would be surprised to learn that on the 18th floor of our headquarters is another newsroom that looks like the rest of our space. It’s furnished identically. The journalists maintain their desks with equal fastidiousness. The resemblance ends there.
大多数时报员工会惊讶地发现，总部大楼的18楼还有一间新闻室，和其他空间没什么两样。室内布置摆设一模一样。记者们对办公桌整洁的坚持也是差不多的。但相似之处也就这么多了。
This is the New York bureau of The Asahi Shimbun, a venerable and influential Japanese newspaper and website. Four correspondents, three assistant reporters and an office manager are stationed here. They cover, for their readers who are primarily back in Japan, American society, politics, business, culture, immigration policy, terrorist incidents and mass shootings, supplementing the work of their colleagues in Washington, Los Angeles and San Francisco.
这里是《朝日新闻》(The Asahi Shimbun)纽约分社办公室，它是一个久负盛名、影响深远的日本报纸与网站。四名记者、三名助理记者和一名办公室主任驻守在这里，为主要由日本国内读者构成的受众报道美国社会、政治、商业、文化、移民政策，乃至恐怖主义和大规模枪击事件，配合在华盛顿、洛杉矶和旧金山的同事工作。
It sounds like a very contemporary kind of arrangement: two large international media companies sharing quarters.
这听上去像是一个非常现代化的安排：两家大型国际媒体公司共享办公地点。
In fact, it goes back 89 years.
事实上，这种情况可以追溯到89年前。
That was when an agreement was reached between Adolph S. Ochs, the publisher of The Times, and Kichinai Kitano, The Asahi’s New York-based correspondent, for the lease of office space in our headquarters at 229 West 43rd Street.
那时，时报出版人阿道夫·S·奥克斯(Adolph S. Ochs)和朝日驻纽约记者北野吉内(Kichinai Kitano)达成协议，把我们位于西43街229号总部内的办公室租给朝日。
“As a result of this,” The Asahi told its readers on July 1, 1928, “our New York correspondent will be in The New York Times newsroom and able to use all of the communication advantages provided, and along with our relationship with The London Times, there is no doubt that our foreign news will be furthermore even more brilliant.”
“其结果是，”1928年7月1日，朝日告诉读者，“我们的纽约记者可以置身《纽约时报》新闻室，使用它所提供的所有通讯优势，加上我们与《伦敦时报》(The London Times)建立的关系，毫无疑问，我们的国外新闻会更加精彩。”
The relationship between the newspapers can be traced to a meeting a year earlier between Seiichi Ueno, whose father was a co-founder of The Asahi, and Mr. Ochs and his son-in-law and eventual successor, Arthur Hays Sulzberger. Mr. Ueno had stopped in New York on his way back to Japan from an international newspaper conference in Geneva, said Daisuke Nakai, 45, a correspondent currently stationed here.
两家报纸的关系可以追溯到一年前，奥克斯和他的女婿及最终继任者阿瑟·海斯·苏兹伯格(Arthur Hays Sulzberger)同上野精一(Seiichi Ueno)举行的一次会议。上野的父亲是朝日的联合创始人。据现驻纽约的记者、45岁的中井大助(Daisuke Nakai)说，参加完在日内瓦举办的一次国际报纸会议之后，上野精一在返回日本途中到纽约稍事停留。
The Times charged The Asahi $50 a month in rent (roughly $700 today) and $250 monthly for the use of its news wires. Telephones and typewriters were furnished at no charge.
时报向朝日收取每月50美元的租金（约合现在的700美元），以及每月250美元使用其新闻电报的费用。电话和打字机都是免费提供的。
Mr. Kitano returned to Japan in 1929 aboard the Graf Zeppelin. He went on to be a senior editor and board member, then a board member of The Asahi Evening News, an English-language publication that is now defunct.
北野于1929年乘坐齐柏林伯爵号(Graf Zeppelin)航空母舰返回日本。他继续担任朝日的高级编辑和董事会成员，后来又成了《朝日晚报》(The Asahi Evening News)的董事会成员，那是一份现已不存在的英语出版物。
Relations between the companies were quite amicable. When the time came to send a letter by air over the Pacific Ocean in 1931, Ryuhei Murayama, a co-founder of The Asahi Shimbun, chose Mr. Ochs as the recipient of his greeting. (Mr. Murayama was in a position to send this letter because The Asahi had put up a $25,000 prize for the first nonstop flight between the countries.)
两家公司之间的关系相当友好。1931年，当航空信件可以跨越太平洋时，朝日新闻联合创始人村山龙平(Ryuhei Murayama)选择以奥克斯先生为收件人，送出了自己的问候（村山能够发送这封信，是因为朝日为两国之间的第一次直飞提供了2.5万美元的奖金）。
In this letter, first in the history of America and Japan ever to be carried by airplane across the Pacific Ocean, the Asahi newspapers, Tokyo and Osaka, of which I am founder and president, tender to The New York Times and, through its columns, to the American people at large, heartiest congratulations upon the splendid achievement of the two American fliers, Hugh Herndon and Clyde Pangborn.
本信乃日美两国史上首封飞越太平洋送达的信函，由敝人创办并任社长的东京和大阪朝日报社，向《纽约时报》——也藉由贵报专栏向全体美国人民表达由衷的祝贺，这是两位美国飞行员休·赫恩登(Hugh Herndon)和克莱德·潘伯恩(Clyde Pangborn)的辉煌成就。
The aviators, it should be said, carried the letter as far as their landing spot in Wenatchee, Wash. Then they popped it in a mail box.
值得一提的是，两位飞行员携着这封信一直飞到了华盛顿州韦纳奇的着陆点。然后他们把信投入了一个小邮箱。
Mr. Murayama expressed his conviction that the Herndon-Pangborn flight “must greatly contribute toward promoting friendly relations between our countries.”
村山表示，他相信，赫恩登与潘伯恩的飞行“必将为促进我们两国之间的友好关系做出巨大贡献。”
Unfortunately, darker forces were at work. Ten years later, the two nations were at war.
不幸的是，一股更黑暗的力量在运行着。十年之后，两国开始交战。
Kyozo Mori, who was then the New York correspondent for The Asahi, was among the Japanese journalists rounded up by American authorities after the attack on Pearl Harbor. He was detained in Virginia until the next year. Ryugen Hosokawa, another New York-based correspondent, was in Buenos Aires at the time of the attack.
时任朝日驻纽约记者的森恭三(Kyozo Mori)是珍珠港袭击事件后被美国当局逮捕的日本记者之一。他被关押在弗吉尼亚州，直至翌年获释。另一位驻纽约记者细川隆元(Ryugen Hosokawa)在袭击发生时身处布宜诺斯艾利斯。
In Tokyo, The Times’s correspondent, Otto D. Tolischus, was arrested at his home in the Akasaka district, which doubled as the bureau. He was accused of spying and imprisoned, but was released in 1942.
在东京，时报记者奥托·D·托利舒斯(Otto D. Tolischus)在赤坂的办公室兼住宅中被捕。他因间谍罪被判入狱，但于1942年获得释放。
The Times reopened its bureau in 1945, at the end of the war, when it moved into The Asahi Shimbun building. (The reciprocal arrangement continues, as Motoko Rich reports from Tokyo.)
1945年在战争即将结束的时候，时报重新开放了它的日本办事处，搬进了朝日新闻大厦（正如素子·里奇[Motoko Rich]在东京报道的，这种互惠安排持续至今。）
Though it is unclear when The Asahi reclaimed its New York office, it may have been as late as 1952. Bureau lore has it that the Japanese journalists discovered their old keys still worked. They opened the door to find the place undisturbed — exactly as they had left it in December 1941, except for a thick layer of dust, Mr. Nakai said.
朝日在何时恢复纽约办事处已不得而知，可能晚至1952年。中井说，分社流传着这样的说法，当时的日本记者们发现自己的旧钥匙仍然可以用。他们打开门，发现整个地方完全没有被动过——和他们在1941年12月离开的时候一模一样，只是积了一层厚厚的灰尘。