What did Spring Festival mean to a child like me, growing up in rural China in the early 1970s, in the aftermath of the Cultural Revolution? Chocolate? Not at a time when even table sugar was a luxury good. We hadn’t even heard of chocolate. Candy? Impossible. How could a poor family like ours, which was never even issued the official ration coupons, purchase it? Rice, then? No, not even that.
对我这样一个在上世纪70年代初、文化大革命末期的中国农村长大的孩子，春节意味着什么？巧克力吗？不是，那是一个连食糖都是奢侈品的时代。我们甚至都没听说过巧克力。那是糖果吗？不可能。像我们那种甚至从来都没分到过配给券的贫困家庭怎么可能买到糖果？那么是米饭吗？不是，连米饭都不是。
In those years, folks like us, living near the banks of the lower Yangtze River — a so-called home to rice and fish — barely scratched out a living, feeding ourselves on sweet potatoes, beans and tulip bulbs all year round. A bowl of rice was a luxury meal. Rice, white crystalline rice, was never to be had, except in our dreams.
在那个年代，我们这些生活在长江下游所谓“鱼米之乡”的人只能勉强维生，一年到头都用红薯、豆子和大头菜充饥。一碗米饭就是一顿奢侈的大餐。除了在梦里，我们从来没有吃过米饭，亮白剔透的米饭。
One Spring Festival, which marks the Chinese New Year, left an indelible impression on my mind, and taught me a lot about the world. It was 1972, if I recall correctly, and I was 6 years old.
有一年，标志着中国新年到来的春节在我心中留下了难以磨灭的印象，让我知道了这个世界的很多事情。如果没有记错的话，那是1972年，当时我6岁。
It was three days before the festival, and the weather was unusually cold. Cracks formed in our frozen water jugs, and the spoons in the kitchen felt as if they were made of ice. By midafternoon, ominous clouds began to form, and the wind, blowing in heavy gusts, kept all children indoors. Just then, two little girls from nearby Anhui Province knocked feebly at our door.
离春节还有三天，天气异常寒冷。已经被冻住的水壶出现了裂缝，厨房里的勺子摸上去像是冰做的。到了下午三点左右，天上开始出现乌云，阵阵狂风让所有孩子都待在了屋里。就在这时，来自附近的安徽省的两个小女孩有气无力地敲响了我家的门。
Mom let the girls in. They were about 7 or 8 years old and spoke a kind of dialect peculiar to Anhui. It was hard to follow, but at long last Dad made out what they were saying. Their parents were so poverty-stricken that they left their daughters to wander off, begging for food. Mom spread some dried bean stalks on our mud floor, over which she added a small mattress and a quilt. She prepared some warm soup with minced tulip slices and carrots for supper. I felt a little disheartened, for two more mouths meant less food in our stomachs that night, but sympathy for the girls prevailed. They ate with us, in silence. The next morning, two days before the festival, some faint light leaked out of a crack in the sky. Later, snow began to fall. Something deep in the recess of my mind was triggered. What caused it, I don’t know. I only know that an unspeakable impulse coursed within me, and all of a sudden I began to hallucinate the white flakes of snow as grains of white rice!
母亲开门让她们进了屋。她们7、8岁的光景，说着安徽特有的一种方言。那种方言很难懂，但最后，父亲听懂了她们的意思。原来是她们的父母实在太穷了，只好让自己的女儿出门讨饭。母亲在我家的泥土地面上铺了一些干豆茎，再在上面铺一床小褥子和一床被子。她把大头菜片和胡萝卜切碎煮成汤当晚饭。我觉得有点沮丧，因为多两张嘴就意味着那晚我们的吃的减少了，不过对那两个小女孩的同情占了上风。她们和我们一道默默地吃完了午饭。第二天早上，离春节还有两天，一些微弱的光从空中乌云的缝隙中照射下来。后来，开始下雪了。我内心深处的什么东西被触发了。我不知道是什么引起的。我只知道自己心里涌出一种无法形容的冲动。突然，我开始产生幻觉，在我眼里，白色的雪花变成了白米粒。
In no time, I brought into play my talent of commanding my peers, by ordering the two little girls to help me carry out buckets, basins and every container we could get hold of. I forgot they were strangers. We aligned these containers in one straight, neat line, waiting for the grains of snow to fall into them. I began to jump around, and my excitement infected A-huang, my dog, who shot out of the house like an arrow off a bow, and joined me, wagging his tail. Seeing this, the two little girls joined as well. They mimicked us, jumping around for a while, but before long their little legs grew tired. They must have been exhausted, and unbearably hungry. They continued to watch half-attentively.
很快，我发挥自己指挥同龄人的才能，命令那两个小姑娘帮我把桶、盆子和我们能找到的所有容器搬了出来。我忘了他们是陌生人。我们把这些容器整整齐齐地排成了一条直线，等着雪粒掉进去。我开始蹦来蹦去，我的兴奋感染了我的狗阿黄。它像离弦的箭的一样从屋里冲出来，摇着尾巴和我一起又蹦又跳。见此情景，那两个小姑娘也加入了我们。她们也学我们，跳来跳去了一会儿，但不久，她们的两条细腿就累了。她们之前肯定已经筋疲力尽，饥饿难耐了。她们继续有一搭没一搭地在一旁观看。
The more densely the snow fell, the more intensely I jumped. Below the gray, sullen sky, I raced from one end to another of the alley before our door, all the while crouching as if I were weaving through bushes of rice stalks. I imagined myself on a bright rice paddy, a merry rice paradise. Then I opened all my pockets and my mouth, and stood there, ready to receive the grains.
雪下得越密，我跳得越起劲。在昏暗、阴沉的天空下，我从门前那条小路的这一头跑到那一头。我一直猫着腰，像是在稻田里迂回前进一样。我想象自己身在一片明亮的稻田，一个充满欢乐的大米天堂。然后，我撑开所有的衣服兜，张开嘴，站在那里，等着白米粒落进来。
This was an extreme yet natural reaction for children in those days, a demonstration of extreme longing, of the painful rounds of expectation, frustrated expectation, renewed expectation, disappointment and, ultimately, despair. I was like the children who, on midautumn nights, opened their mouths toward the full moon and howled, “mooncakes, mooncakes!”
对那个时代的孩子来说，这也是一种极端而又自然的反应，显示出了极度渴望，一次次地从期望、期望落空、重燃期望、失望到最终绝望的痛苦往复。我就像那些在中秋节晚上张开嘴，对着一轮圆月狂喊“月饼、月饼！”的孩子一样。
When the snow turned into bigger, whiter flakes, I suddenly realized that it was time to harvest the crop. I ordered the two girls to help collect the vessels, and brought them into the house, for Mom to cook our New Year’s Eve dinner. But when I finished, and looked down into the buckets, all I could find was pools of water. I was dumbfounded. “Where is the white rice?” I asked Mom, drenched and exhausted. “It has been eaten by heaven,” she replied wryly.
当雪开始变成更大、更白的雪花时，我突然意识到该收粮食了。我命令那两个小姑娘帮忙把那些容器收起来，搬进屋，让母亲可以用来准备年夜饭。但当做完这一切后往桶里看时，我只看到了一滩滩的水。我目瞪口呆。“白米哪儿去了？”全身都湿透了的我精疲力尽地问母亲。“被老天爷吃了，”她面无表情地回答道。
By now the warmth from my body had melted the grains of snow on my clothes. The mud floor below my feet was dimmed by the water drops. I sat down on a little wooden stool, gasping. My dog, with his wet fur, cuddled slavishly at my feet, at times sniffing my shoes, at times my trouser bottoms, as if he, like me, were searching for something to put in his stomach. My eyes grew tired, as I stared out through the crack of the doors into the snow-filled world. The two little girls looked at me for a while, perplexed. I felt water running down from my head into my mouth, with a salty taste. Was it melted snow, or tears? I don’t know.
这时，身体的温度让我衣服上的雪粒融化了。脚下的泥土地面被水滴弄湿了。我气喘吁吁地坐在一个小木凳上。我的狗温顺地卧在我的脚边。被淋湿了的他有时嗅嗅我的鞋，有时嗅嗅我的裤脚，似乎也像我一样在找吃的。我透过门缝，盯着外面被皑皑白雪覆盖着的世界，眼睛渐渐感到疲乏。那两个小姑娘不知所措地看了我一会儿。我能感觉到，水从我的头上淌下来，流进了嘴里，带着一股咸味。那是融化了的雪，还是泪水？我不知道。
When Spring Festival came, it meant nothing at all to me. Once again, we had tulips and sweet potatoes. Probably I stayed indoors reading storybooks with pictures of sallow-faced American children going hungry in the streets, their disheveled and thickly mustached fathers carrying bowls begging from house to house. Seeing those children, I felt more at ease, for we were relatively happier and merrier than those poorer kids from the capitalist world.
到了春节那一天，它对我来说毫无意义。我们一如既往地吃了大头菜和红薯。我当时可能一直待在家里看故事书，里面的图画上有一些脸色蜡黄的美国孩子在街头忍饥挨饿，他们的父亲衣衫不整，留着浓密的胡须，拿着碗挨家挨户地乞讨。看着这些孩子，我感到放松了一些，因为相对而言，我们比资本主义世界那些可怜的孩子更幸福、更快乐。
One day, after many years, I chanced to look up the definition of the English word “mania” — “an irrational but irresistible motive for a belief or action.” There is no exact word for that feeling in Chinese, but I understood deeply what it meant. As a 6-year-old boy, overcome with extreme hunger, I had known it. Today, I still wonder: Was it “snow mania” or “rice mania,” and what caused it?
多年后的一天，我偶然去查了“mania”这个英语单词的意思——“对某种信念或行为怀有的缺乏理智而又无法抗拒的冲动”。中文里没有一个词能确切地表示这种感觉，但我却完全理解它的意思。还在6岁时，被极度的饥饿笼罩着的我就已经知道它的意思了。到现在，我还在想，我当时是“雪狂热”，还是“大米狂热”？是什么导致的呢？