President-elect Donald J. Trump is following in Fidel Castro’s footsteps.
候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)跟随着菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)的足迹前进。
At least, as far as visiting the New York Times headquarters.
至少在前往《纽约时报》总部这件事是这样的。
Mr. Castro came to New York in October 1995 for the celebration of the United Nations’ 50th anniversary. On the final day of his five-day trip, he spent more than two hours at The Times, which was then at 229 West 43rd Street.
卡斯特罗曾于1995年10月来到纽约，参加联合国成立50周年的庆祝活动。他的行程为期五天，最后一天他在《纽约时报》的总部待了两个多小时，当时时报的总部还在西43街229号。
Times executives and employees are well accustomed to V.I.P. visits, but they are usually given days — if not weeks — of advance notice. Jay McKillop, the company’s security director, had 14½ hours to prepare for Mr. Castro.
时报的高管和员工都习惯了贵宾的来访，但通常会提前数天接到通知，有时候是提前数周。但那次公司的安全主管杰伊·麦克利洛普(Jay McKillop)只有14.5小时的时间为卡斯特罗来访做准备。
World leaders were not typically brought into The Times by its conspicuous main entrance, but through an adjoining truck bay, which was connected to the lobby by a path in the mail room. A tall partition would be installed in the lobby to block views of the elevators closest to the mail room door, allowing guests to be escorted upstairs in privacy.
国外领导人通常不会走大楼显眼的主入口进入时报总部，而是要经过毗邻的货运场，它通过收发室连接到大厅。大厅里会安装一道高隔板，距离收发室门最近的几部电梯就有了隐私，方便把客人护送到楼上。
Newspapers were still being printed at the headquarters building in 1995. On any day, The Times consumed so much newsprint that deliveries of fresh rolls were made every 10 or 20 minutes. But 43rd Street had to be closed to traffic during Mr. Castro’s visit. “Someone needed to figure out where we were going to stash a few hundred tons of newsprint,” Mr. McKillop said in a 1995 interview with the house organ, Times Talk.
1995年的时候，报纸仍然是在总部大楼印制。每一天《纽约时报》都要消耗大量的新闻纸，每10或20分钟就有新的纸卷送到。但是43街在卡斯特罗来访的时候必须关闭。麦克利洛普在1995年接受时报的内部刊物《Times Talk》采访时说：“得有人想办法把那几百吨新闻纸究竟放在哪里。”
And that was not the end of the logistical challenges that turned Mr. McKillop’s already gray hair even grayer. Bill Keller, the foreign editor, was supposed to be the official greeter. But as the Castro entourage pulled into the truck bay, there was no sign of him. “I was thinking, ‘What do we do if Bill Keller’s not there?’ ” Mr. McKillop said. “I knew the Cubans weren’t going to go for having Castro standing there waiting.”
让麦克基洛普已经花白的头发更添白发的后勤挑战，还不仅仅是这个。国际编辑比尔·凯勒(Bill Keller)理应是正式的迎接者。但当卡斯特罗的随从进入卡车场的时候，却看不到比尔·凯勒的人影。“我在想，如果比尔·凯勒不在，我们该怎么办？”麦克基洛普说。“我知道古巴人不会高兴让卡斯特罗站在那里等着。”
With seconds left to avoid a diplomatic crisis, Mr. Keller materialized as Mr. Castro got out of his vehicle.
离发生一场外交危机只有数秒的时候，凯勒出现了，当时卡斯特罗刚刚下了车。
“It looked perfect,” Mr. McKillop said.
“看起来真是恰到好处，”麦克基洛普说。
Mr. Castro was taken to the 14th-floor boardroom to meet with the publisher and several top editors. He had apparently left his fatigues at home, because he showed up in a charcoal-gray suit with peak lapels, a starched white shirt with French cuffs, and a subtly figured tie. (Red, of course.)
卡斯特罗被带到14楼的会议室，在那里与出版人以及几位高层编辑会面。他显然把自己的工作服留在了家里，而是穿了一件峰翻领的深灰色西装，内搭法式袖口的上浆白衬衫，配一条暗花领带（当然是红色的）。
His attire, however, seemed to be the only accommodation he cared to make. “He showed no signs of bending his political will to suit others, defending his rule in Cuba as a form of democracy that enjoys deep public support,” Lizette Alvarez reported. Mr. Castro acknowledged that his government was holding about 600 political prisoners, but added that Mexico, Argentina and France were among other countries that jailed opponents of the state.
但他的衣服似乎是他唯一愿意做出的迁就姿态。“他完全没有表现出想缓和自己的政治意愿来和他人拉近关系的迹象，坚称自己在古巴的统治是民主的一种形式，获得了广泛的公众支持，”丽莎特·阿尔瓦雷斯(Lizette Alvarez)在报道中写道。卡斯特罗承认，他的政府关押了约600名政治犯，但他表示墨西哥、阿根廷和法国等国也关押了与国家作对的人。
Mr. Castro also gave his listeners a sense of how cunningly he manipulated the press, even in his early 30s.
卡斯特罗还给听众留下了一种他可以狡猾操纵新闻的印象，即便是在他30岁出头的时候。
He recalled a famous interview in 1957 with Herbert L. Matthews of The Times at his hiding place in the Sierra Maestra, while he was an outlaw whom the world believed to be dead. Mr. Castro said he had ordered the same small bunch of rebels to march back and forth within eyeshot of The Times’s correspondent.
他回忆起1957年时，时报记者赫伯特·L·马修斯(Herbert L. Matthews)前往他在马埃斯特拉山的藏身处，对他所做的一次著名的采访。当时他是一个法外之徒，全世界都以为他已经死了。卡斯特罗说，他下令让人数不多的同一群叛军在马修斯面前反复走来走去。
“We tried to give Matthews the impression that there were more of us,” Mr. Castro said.
“我们想给马修斯留下一种我们有很多人的印象，”卡斯特罗说。
Unlike most V.I.P.s, he was not content to end his Times visit in the polished confines of the executive floor but asked to be shown the workers’ quarters. That meant the newsroom — a dark, claustrophobic, overcrowded, ill-ventilated, cheesily decorated and poorly maintained space.
与大多数贵宾不同的是，他不满足于只参观高管楼层精致的办公空间，还要求看看普通员工的工作地点。也就是新闻室——那里黑暗、幽闭、过度拥挤、不通风、装饰俗气，而且维护不佳。
“It looks as though you could use a union,” Mr. Castro said, through an interpreter, when he saw the space.
卡斯特罗看到这里，通过翻译表示：“看起来好像你们该有个工会了。”
Deborah Sontag, a Times reporter who accompanied Mr. Castro with Ms. Alvarez, said the moment of his arrival in the newsroom “did feel surreal, but also very real and charged.”
陪同卡斯特罗与阿尔瓦雷斯一起参观的时报记者黛博拉·桑塔格(Deborah Sontag)说，在他抵达新闻室的那一刻，“确实有一种超现实的感觉，但气氛也非常真实、令人激动。”
“He seemed very attuned to his surroundings and interested,” she wrote in an email this week.
“他似乎和周围的环境很协调，而且也很感兴趣，”本周她在一封电子邮件中写道。
“There was a palpable awareness that this almost mythic figure had stepped out of history and into our gritty, rodent-infested newsroom,” Ms. Sontag wrote. “I was surprised by how star-struck our senior leaders were, editors and editorial board members. I had never seen anything like it, and have never seen anything comparable since.”
“有一种感觉很明显，这个近乎神话传说般的人物已经走出了历史，走进了我们这个真实的、有老鼠出没的新闻编辑部，”桑塔格写道。“我们的高层领导、编辑和编辑委员会成员有一种追星族的感觉，让我很惊讶。我之前从来没有见过类似的阵仗，以后也没有见过可以相提并论的状况。”
Tim Race, an editor, noticed the same thing. “I recall being put off by how many of my colleagues (or should I say Comrades) seemed to be falling over one another to have a chance to shake hands with the wily old despot,” he wrote in an email. “That said, I did think Fidel looked extremely dapper in his business suit. Sort of like the World’s Most Interesting Man. With a longer beard.”
编辑提姆·瑞斯(Tim Race)也注意到了这一点。“我记得看到不少同事（或许我应该说同志）为了有机会与这个狡猾的老暴君握手而差点绊倒，挺反感的，”他在一封电邮中写道。“虽然如此，我确实觉得菲德尔穿西装看起来非常精神。看起来像是世界上最有趣的人。就是胡子更长一些。
Another editor, James Schembari, said Mr. Castro gave a little talk. (The idea that the long-winded leader was capable of brief remarks might have qualified as a news story in 1995.) “I don’t remember what he said, but by standing near his left shoulder, I was close enough to see that he had bad dandruff,” Mr. Schembari added. “That I haven’t forgotten.”
另一位编辑詹姆斯·斯巴利(James Schembari)说，卡斯特罗做了简短发言。（这位说话啰嗦的领导者能保持发言的简短，这在1995年可以成为一个新闻故事）“我不记得他说的话了，但我站在他的左边，距离近到可以看见他左肩有头皮屑，”斯巴利。“这个我没忘记。”
Joseph Lelyveld, who was then the executive editor, was asked this week whether he thought the day’s events had been surreal. No, he replied.
约瑟夫·莱利维尔德(Joseph Lelyveld)是当时的执行主编，本周我问他是否觉得那一天有种超现实的感觉，他说没有。
“I’d previously had a marathon dinner with Castro in Havana,” Mr. Lelyveld said. “That was December 1994 as I recall. Lasted five hours or so.”
“我之前在哈瓦那与卡斯特罗吃了很长一顿晚餐，”莱利维尔德说。“我记得是1994年12月。总共持续了五个多小时。
“Now that was surreal.”
“那次有超现实的感觉。”