Argentina, the United States and Iran appear to be the most disliked World Cup teams. Brazilian fans enter the World Cup as the most confident, though Argentines and Spaniards aren’t far behind in their home-country optimism. And fans across many countries agree that the Brazilians play the most attractive form of soccer.
阿根廷、美国和伊朗的球队看起来是最不受欢迎的几支世界杯球队。虽然巴西的球迷是作为最有信心的群体进入本届杯赛，但阿根廷和西班牙两国国内的乐观情绪也相差不远。来自各个国家的球迷都认为，巴西队的球踢得最具有魅力。
These are among the results from a study of people in 19 countries conducted by YouGov, the online survey firm, in collaboration with The Upshot. The study offers insight into the psyche of fans around the world as they prepare for the most watched tournament in sports. Highlights include:
这是对19个国家进行调查结果的一部分，来自网络调查公司YouGov与本报的“结语”(The Upshot)板块一起做的一项研究。这项研究对世界各国球迷在准备观看这个体育界观众数量最多的赛事时的想法提供了了解。调查的主要结果如下：
■ Politics, geography and good old schadenfreude seem to play a strong role in rooting. A plurality of Mexican respondents named the United States as their least-favorite team. Brazilians chose Argentines, and vice versa. Greeks named their bankers: both Germany and the United States. Elsewhere in Europe, the wounds of an old war seem long forgotten; few fans named Germany as their most disliked team. In Asia, by contrast, Japan and South Korea do not like each other. The United States, Argentina and Iran each have more than their share of haters around the world.
■ 政治、地理以及老牌的幸灾乐祸看来在决定给哪个球队加油上起重要作用。相对多数的墨西哥受访者表示，美国队是他们最不喜欢的球队。巴西人和阿根廷人最不喜欢彼此的球队。希腊人最不喜欢的是他们的两个债主：德国和美国。在欧洲的其他地区，旧日的战争创伤似乎早已被人遗忘，很少有球迷表示德国队是他们最讨厌的球队。在亚洲，情况则不同，日本与韩国对彼此都没有好感。美国、阿根廷和伊朗各自都在世界上有较大数量的厌恶者。
■ A strong plurality of fans in only three countries — Argentina, Brazil and Spain – predict their own country to win the tournament. (A plurality in the United States also picked the home team to win, against all odds, but that plurality consisted of only 14 percent of Americans; the rest picked another team or said they didn’t know who would win.) Everywhere else, the most common prediction was Brazil. In many countries, the home team was the second- or third-most commonly predicted winner. One notable exception: England. The English just don’t believe in their team anymore. 
■只有阿根廷、巴西与西班牙这三个国家的球迷中有未超过半数的多数人预测，他们自己国家的球队能赢得这次世界杯的冠军。（也有不到半数的多数美国人认为，自己国家的球队能够夺冠，尽管这个可能性很小，但这部分人只占所有美国受访者的14%，其余的人则选择了其他球队，或者说他们不知道谁将夺冠。）在其他国家中，最常见的冠军预测是巴西队。在很多国家中，预测本国队夺冠是第二或第三最常见选择。一个值得注意的例外是英格兰。英国人已不再相信他们的球队了。
■ There is little debate about who plays the beautiful game; Brazil does. A plurality of fans in the countries we studied, when asked who plays the most appealing brand of soccer, named Brazil. We didn’t allow people to name their country on this question; Brazilians picked Spain, the defending champion.
■关于哪个国家的球踢得最漂亮，几乎没有争议：巴西。在我们调查的各个国家中，当被问及哪国的足球踢得最具招牌水平时，都有不到半数的多数球迷选择了巴西。在这个问题中，我们不允许人们选择自己的国家，巴西人选择最多的是卫冕冠军西班牙队。
■ Colombians are among the world’s biggest soccer fans. Only 6 percent of Colombian respondents said they were “not interested” in the sport, the lowest level among our 19 countries. More broadly, the highest levels of interest are in Latin America.
■哥伦比亚人是世界上最大的球迷群体。只有6%的哥伦比亚受访者说他们对这项运动“不感兴趣”，这在我们调查的19个国家中是最低的比例。更广泛地说，对足球感兴趣的比例在拉丁美洲最高。
■ The least interested country, not surprisingly, is the United States: 60 percent of Americans reported being uninterested. The fact that about half of people in England and France say they have little care for the game may surprise outsiders, even if it is unlikely to surprise people living in those countries.
■对足球最不感兴趣的国家是美国，这并不令人惊讶。60%的美国人坦承他们对足球没有兴趣。英国和法国各有约一半人表示他们不关心足球，这个事实也许会令其他国家的人吃惊，尽管对生活在这两个国家的人来说，这没有什么可奇怪的。
■ Just as striking, given the passions that surround the sport, was how many people — about a third in many soccer-loving countries — said they did not have a least-favorite team.
■同样引人注目的是，尽管人们对这项运动充满激情，但是说没有自己最不喜欢的球队的人也相当多：在许多热爱足球的国家中，有三分之一的人这样说。
■ A small but noticeable minority of people are ready for the World Cup to end before it has begun. Asked to name their least-favorite team, a plurality of Brazilian respondents (34 percent) named Argentina. But second on the list? Brazil itself. Almost 7 percent of respondents in Brazil will be rooting hard against the home team. That unusual level of home-team dissatisfaction may relate to the recent political turmoil in Brazil. Similarly, 7 percent of French and 5 percent of Americans report rooting against the home team.
■有为数不多、但值得注意的少数人说，他们在世界杯开始之前就盼望其结束。在被问及最不喜欢的球队时，有不到半数的多数巴西受访者（34%）选择了阿根廷。但巴西人提名的第二个最不受欢迎的球队又是谁呢？是巴西队本身。有接近7%的巴西受访者表示，将为本国球队的失利而加油。这种反常的对本国队的不满态度可能与最近巴西国内的政治骚乱有关。类似地，有7%的法国人和5%的美国人表示要为自己国家的球队失利加油。
■ Brazil is the only country where a full majority of respondents (64 percent) were confident enough to predict their country as the winner. Next most confident: Spain (where 48 percent of respondents predicted a Spanish victory), Argentina (47 percent), Colombia (25 percent), Portugal (23 percent), Russia (21 percent), Italy (21 percent), Chile (17 percent), Germany (16 percent). By comparison, oddsmakers list Brazil, Argentina, Germany and Spain — in descending order — as the favorites. In the United States, 14 percent of respondents predicted an American victory — an optimism evidently not shared by Jurgen Klinsmann, the coach of the United States team.
■巴西是唯一一个有超过半数的受访者（64%）拥有足够信心预测本国队将夺得世界杯冠军的国家。接下来比较有信心的国家是西班牙（有48%的受访者预测西班牙将得胜）、阿根廷（47%）、哥伦比亚（25%）、葡萄牙（23%）、俄罗斯（21%）、意大利（21%）、智利（17%）以及德国（16%）。作为比较，博彩公司给出的概率则认为巴西、阿根廷、德国与西班牙——可能性从高至低——是最有可能夺冠的队伍。在美国，14%的受访者预测美国会夺冠，美国队主教练尤尔根·克林斯曼(Jurgen Klinsmann)明显并不认同这种乐观情绪。
For more on the views of fans around the world, we invite you to read our other posts on the subject:
如果想了解全球球迷更多的看法，我们邀请您阅读我们关于这个主题的其他报道：
■ Simon Romero (The Times’s Brazil bureau chief, who has reported widely in Latin America) and Jonathan Gilbert (a reporter based in Buenos Aires) look at why so many fans in other countries seem to be rooting against Argentina — and how Argentines feel about it.
■西蒙·罗梅罗(Simon Romero)（《纽约时报》巴西分社社长，对拉丁美洲事务有广泛报道）和乔纳森·吉尔伯特(Jonathan Gilbert)（一位驻扎在布宜诺斯艾利斯的记者）对为什么有如此多的其他国家球迷为打败阿根廷队加油的分析，以及阿根廷人对此的感受。
■ Justin Wolfers, an economist from Australia, discusses the strange strand of optimism running through some Aussie fans, despite their team’s low ranking and terribly difficult draw.
■澳大利亚经济学家贾斯汀·沃夫勒斯(Justin Wolfers)讨论部分澳大利亚球迷之中存在的一种奇怪的乐观心态，尽管该国的球队在国际上排名很低，而且将在分组赛中面临强劲对手。
■ We compare England’s pessimism with the relative optimism of fans of other traditional soccer powers.
■我们将英格兰人的悲观心态与其他传统足球强国球迷的相对乐观心态进行了比较。
■ We provide details on the study’s methodology. In brief: YouGov conducted 19,780 online interviews, in 19 countries between May 19 and June 2. In nine countries with lower Internet access rates, the results are intended to reflect the views of Internet users in those country, who tend to be more urban. In 10 countries with higher Internet usage, the results are intended to apply to the full population. YouGov also conducted interviews in a 20th country, Iran, but determined that the sample consisted of too narrow a slice of the population.
■我们还提供这项研究所使用的方法的细节。简言之：在5月19日到6月2日之间，YouGov在19个国家中进行了19780份网络问卷调查。在网络使用率较低的9个国家中，调查结果更多地倾向于反映这些国家中网络使用者的看法，也就是更多地倾向于那些生活在城市的国民的看法。在网络使用率较高的10个国家中，调查结果趋于代表整体人口的看法。YouGov还在第20个国家伊朗进行了问卷调查，但最终认为该国的样本只代表人口中过少的一部分。