GARY, Ind. — As a tower of black smoke rose above this blighted city last week, a group of neighbors huddled across the street from a burning house, trying to guess which other vacant properties on their block would be arsonists’ next target.
印第安纳州加里——上周，随着一股黑烟在这座衰落的城市上空升起，一些邻居在街边彼此依偎着，看着对面着火的房子，试图猜出街区里哪些空建筑会成为纵火者的下一个目标。
“There’s so many,” said Tasha McMiller, 50, a resident dismayed by the estimated 10,000 abandoned homes here. “They’re a burden.”
“这样的房子太多了，”50岁的塔莎·麦克米勒(Tasha McMiller)说道。周遭约1万处废弃的房屋让这位居民感到沮丧，“这些真是累赘。”
Officials say that a third of the houses in Gary are unoccupied, hollowed dwellings spread across a city that, like other former industrial powerhouses, has lost more than half its population in the last half-century.
官员们说加里有三分之一的房屋没人居住，这些废弃的房屋散落在城市四处。和其他旧时工业重镇一样，这里的人口在过去50年中已减少了一半多。
While some of those homes will be demolished, Gary is exploring a more affordable way to lift its haggard tax base and reduce the excess of empty structures: sell them for $1.
一些废弃建筑会被拆除，但加里同时在探索更为合算的解决办法来提高萎靡不振的税基，减少过多的空建筑：把它们以1美元的价格出售。
The program, announced in June, will offer Gary residents a chance to pay less for a house than for their morning coffee, as long as they meet a minimum income threshold (starting at $35,250 for one person) and demonstrate the financial ability to bring the neglected property up to code within six months. Those selected would have to live in the home for five years before receiving full ownership.
这个于6月宣布的计划为加里的居民提供了以低于早晨咖啡的价格来购买住房机会，只要他们的收入达到最低收入标准（个人年收入不得低于35250美元），并能证明有足够经济实力在半年内将购买的废弃房产整修至合乎标准。那些被选中的购房者在所购买的房屋中居住5年后才能拥有完整的房产。
Nearly 400 people picked up applications on the first day they were available. After an extensive preselection process, the city will choose 12 out of 25 finalists in a lottery next month.
大约400人在申请表出台的第一天就领取了申请表。经过最初的海选后，下个月市政府将通过抽奖从25名入围者中选出12个幸运儿。
“My target would be to sell 50 houses a year,” Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson said. “We’re getting these people to contribute as taxpayers. They can be part of the group that moves out, or they can be part of the group that invests.”
“我的目标是每年售出50套房屋，”市长卡伦·弗里曼-威尔逊(Karen Freeman-Wilson)说道。“我们让居民作为纳税人来出力。他们可以成为迁移大军中的一员，或者加入投资者的队伍。”
Efforts to revive distressed postindustrial cities across the country are being watched closely since last month when Detroit became the largest American municipality to file for bankruptcy. Indiana is one of 21 states that does not allow its cities to file for bankruptcy protection, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. While Gary does not carry the same debt load that led the Motor City into bankruptcy court — officials say its liabilities are around $8.4 million compared with Detroit’s estimated $18 billion — the decline of both manufacturing hubs are strikingly similar.
自从上个月底特律成为最大的破产城市后，全美都在密切关注种种振兴衰败的后工业化城镇的举措。根据国家立法机关全国大会(National Conference of State Legislatures)的数据，美国有21个州不允许其城镇申请破产保护，印第安纳就是其中之一。虽然加里的负债总额没有导致汽车城进入破产法庭的那么高——官方计算其负债约为840万美元，而底特律约为180亿美元——但两个制造业中心的衰退经历却惊人地相似。
Just 30 minutes from downtown Chicago, Gary was once a vibrant steel town with close to 180,000 residents in the 1960s. It is now home to less than 80,000 people and battered by decades of industry layoffs and racial friction that caused waves of suburban flight, shrinking city coffers drastically.
加里距离芝加哥市区仅30分钟的车程，曾是一个生机勃勃的钢铁城，上世纪60年代有近18万居民，如今仅剩不到8万人。过去几十年间饱受工业裁员和种族摩擦之苦，大批人迁往市郊，市政收入大幅缩水。
Gary, which is 85 percent black, has since wrestled with high rates of unemployment, crime and fleeing businesses, as well as fewer resources to invest into 50 square miles of infrastructure that continues to decay. The city department that handles road repair, snow removal and other public maintenance has reduced its staff to 17 employees from 100 employees in 2006.
加里居民中85%为黑人，深受高失业率、高犯罪率和商企撤离的困扰，此外该市50平方英里土地上的基础设施也在不断老化。市政府负责维修道路、清除积雪和其他公共维护服务的部门从2006年的100人已裁员至17人。
A graduate of Harvard Law School and former attorney general of Indiana, Ms. Freeman-Wilson is seen as taking a different approach to saving Gary, coming on the heels of her recent predecessors, whose plans for urban revival hinged primarily on blockbuster projects like building an independent league baseball stadium and hosting Miss USA beauty pageants. A proposed museum dedicated to Michael Jackson, who grew up here, has yet to become more than a pipe dream.
毕业于哈佛法学院(Harvard Law School)、曾任印第安纳州总检察长(attorney general of Indiana)的弗里曼-威尔逊女士接任后采取了截然不同的方法来挽救加里。她的前任们曾把城市复兴计划的重点放在大型项目，比如兴建独立联盟棒球馆和举办美国小姐选美比赛。而为在这里长大的迈克尔·杰克逊(Michael Jackson)兴建纪念馆的提议也不过是空想，尚未得到落实。
Ms. Freeman-Wilson has some big projects, too. She has invested heavily in the city’s airport to attract more commercial and freight traffic. But other initiatives, like the $1 housing program, have also put a strong emphasis on smaller neighborhood stabilization projects that she hopes will slowly increase property values and local ownership in the city’s future.
弗里曼-威尔逊女士确实也有大项目。她大力投资该市的机场，以吸引更多的客运飞机及运输机到来。不过如1美元购房计划等其他倡议则把重点更多地放在了稳定小型社区上。她希望借此慢慢增加土地价值，提高居民对于城市未来发展的主人翁意识。
“It’s not flashy,” S. Paul O’Hara, a historian and author of “Gary: The Most American of All American Cities,” said about the so-called Dollar Home program. “It doesn’t come with promises, but it does come with possibilities.”
“这并非华而不实，”历史学家、《加里：最美国化的美国城市》(Gary: The Most American of All American Cities)一书作者S·保罗·奥哈拉(S. Paul O’Hara)在谈到所谓的“1美元购房计划”(Dollar Home program)时说道。“购房计划并不作出承诺，但确实为购房者提供了更多的可能性。”
The effort was modeled after a similar program by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development that sells foreclosed homes to local governments. Not all of those were resold to residents, but Mayor Freeman-Wilson did get her first home as a result of that program decades ago for $1.
这一计划效仿了联邦住房及城市发展部(Department of Housing and Urban Development)向各地政府出售抵押房屋的举措。虽然不是对所有的抵押房都进行了二次出售，但几十年前弗里曼-威尔逊市长确实是通过该计划以1美元购得了她的第一处住所。
Critics say Gary’s problems are too great for the approach to make a noticeable dent. Many of the people who could afford to fix up a dilapidated home have already left the city, said Maurice Eisenstein, a political scientist at Purdue University Calumet. “Nobody wants to live there.”
批评家则认为加里的问题十分严重，这样的举措不会带来明显改善。大部分有钱修缮废弃房屋的人都搬走了，普渡大学盖莱莫分校(Purdue University Calumet)的政治学家莫里斯·爱森斯坦(Maurice Eisenstein)讲道，“没人愿意住在那儿。”
Felicia Goodman does. A lifelong Gary resident, Ms. Goodman, 50, has rented the same two-bedroom apartment in the city for 13 years and only seriously considered buying a home when she heard about the Dollar Home program, which she applied for last month.
菲利希娅·古德曼(Felicia Goodman)愿意。现年50岁的她在加里生活了一辈子，在过去13年里一直租住在一个三居室公寓。在听说1美元购房计划后，她才开始认真考虑买房，并于上个月递交了申请。
She said her brother and his son have been living with her since an injury left him unemployed two years ago. He owes around $35,000 in medical bills, which Ms. Goodman wants to help him pay with the money she would save by buying a $1 house.
她说2年前她弟弟因受伤失业后一直带着儿子和她住在一起。弟弟欠了3.5万美元的医药费，而古德曼女士希望通过1美元购房能够攒下钱帮助弟弟还债。
“You have no mortgage,” she said. “All you to do is pay the taxes, utilities. It’s the American dream.”
“都不用按揭，”她讲道，“你只需纳税，交水电费。这就是美国梦。”