The genome of a young boy buried at Mal’ta near Lake Baikal in eastern Siberia some 24,000 years ago has turned out to hold two surprises for anthropologists.
大约2.4万年前，一个小男孩被埋葬在东西伯利亚贝加尔湖畔的马尔他。他的基因组给人类学家们带来了两大意外发现。
The first is that the boy’s DNA matches that of Western Europeans, showing that during the last Ice Age people from Europe had reached farther east across Eurasia than previously supposed. Though none of the Mal’ta boy’s skin or hair survives, his genes suggest he would have had brown hair, brown eyes and freckled skin.
首先，小男孩的DNA跟西欧人的一致，这显示，在最后一个冰河时期，来自欧洲的人类在欧亚大陆上东行的距离比之前估计的要远。虽然马尔他男孩的皮肤和毛发没能保存下来，但他的基因显示，他应该有着褐色头发和褐色眼睛，皮肤上有雀斑。
The second surprise is that his DNA also matches a large proportion — about 25 percent — of the DNA of living Native Americans. The first people to arrive in the Americas have long been assumed to have descended from Siberian populations related to East Asians. It now seems that they may be a mixture between the Western Europeans who had reached Siberia and an East Asian population.
第二个意外是，他的DNA还跟当代印第安人的很大一部分的DNA吻合，吻合比例大概在25%。长期以来，人们认为最先抵达美洲大陆的是与东亚人有血缘关系的西伯利亚人的后裔。而现在，似乎第一批到达美洲的，是到过西伯利亚的西欧人和东亚某地人的混血。
The Mal’ta boy was 3 to 4 years old and was buried under a stone slab wearing an ivory diadem, a bead necklace and a bird-shaped pendant. Elsewhere at the same site about 30 Venus figurines were found of the kind produced by the Upper Paleolithic cultures of Europe. The remains were excavated by Russian archaeologists over a 20-year period ending in 1958 and stored in museums in St. Petersburg.
马尔他男孩大概三四岁左右，戴着象牙王冠、珠链和鸟形吊坠，被埋在一块石板下。在同一处遗址的其他地方还发现了约三十个维纳斯小雕像(Venus figurines)，这跟欧洲旧石器时代晚期文化的文物类似。经过二十年，俄罗斯考古学家于1958年完成了对这处遗址的挖掘工作，并将文物保存在圣彼得堡的各大博物馆中。
There they lay for some 50 years until they were examined by a team led by Eske Willerslev of the University of Copenhagen. Dr. Willerslev, an expert in analyzing ancient DNA, was seeking to understand the peopling of the Americas by searching for possible source populations in Siberia. He extracted DNA from bone taken from the child’s upper arm, hoping to find ancestry in the East Asian peoples from whom Native Americans are known to be descended.
而它们就这样在博物馆里静静躺了50年，直到哥本哈根大学(University of Copenhagen)的埃斯克·威勒斯雷夫(Eske Willerslev)带领的研究小组对这些文物进行了检测。威勒斯雷夫博士是分析古代DNA的专家，他想弄清美洲大陆居民的构成，方式是在西伯利亚搜寻可能的种源群体。他从马尔他男孩的上臂骨上采集了DNA标本，希望能够从中发现东亚人的血缘，后者正是公认的印第安人的祖先。
But the first results were disappointing. The boy’s mitochondrial DNA belonged to the lineage known as U, which is commonly found among the modern humans who first entered Europe about 44,000 years ago. The lineages found among Native Americans are those designated A, B, C, D and X, so the U lineage pointed to contamination of the bone by the archaeologists or museum curators who had handled it, a common problem with ancient DNA projects. “The study was put on low speed for about a year because I thought it was all contamination,” Dr. Willerslev said.
但是最初的结论让人大失所望。马尔他男孩的线粒体DNA属于U系族谱，这种线粒体DNA常见于4.4万年前首次进入欧洲的现代人类。而印第安人的DNA谱系被标记为A，B，C，D和X，所以U系族谱的发现就意味着这份标本已被接触过它的考古学家或者博物馆员污染了，这种问题会经常出现在研究古代DNA的项目中。威勒斯雷夫博士说，“因为我认为标本被污染了，所以在将近一年时间里研究进度非常慢。”
His team proceeded anyway to analyze the nuclear genome, which contains the major part of human inheritance. They were amazed when the nuclear genome also turned out to have partly European ancestry. Examining the genome from a second Siberian grave site, that of an adult who died 17,000 years ago, they found the same markers of European origin. Together, the two genomes indicate that descendants of the modern humans who entered Europe had spread much farther east across Eurasia than had previously been assumed and occupied Siberia during an extremely cold period starting 20,000 years ago that is known as the Last Glacial Maximum.
不过，他的研究小组还是继续分析了标本的核基因组。核基因组包含了人类遗传的主要信息。他们惊讶地发现，核基因组的分析结果竟然也证实了小男孩有部分欧洲血统。在另一个西伯利亚墓葬遗址里，他们获得了一位死于1.7万年前成年人的基因组，通过研究，他们发现了同样的欧洲人血统的标记基因。这两份基因组共同显示，那些进入欧洲的现代人的后裔在欧亚大陆上东进的距离远比之前设想的要远。并且，在两万年前开始的那段称为末次冰盛期(Last Glacial Maximum)的极端寒冷的时期里，这群人就居住在西伯利亚。
The other surprise from the Mal’ta boy’s genome was that it matched to both Europeans and Native Americans but not to East Asians. Dr. Willerslev’s interpretation was that the ancestors of Native Americans had already separated from the East Asian population when they interbred with the people of the Mal’ta culture, and that this admixed population then crossed over the Beringian land bridge that then lay between Siberia and Alaska to become a founding population of Native Americans.
马尔他男孩基因组带来的另一大发现是，他的基因组跟欧洲人和印第安人的基因组都有吻合之处，但是和东亚人的却不一致。威勒斯雷夫博士的解释是，当印第安人的祖先跟马尔他人混血之时，他们就已经从东亚种群中分离出来，而这一群经过混血的人随后穿过连接西伯利亚和阿拉斯加的白令大陆桥，从而成为印第安人的祖先。
“We estimate that 14 to 38 percent of Native American ancestry may originate through gene flow from this ancient population,” he and colleagues wrote in an article published Wednesday in the journal Nature.
威勒斯雷夫博士和他的同事在一篇发表于周三《自然》(Nature)杂志的文章中写道，“我们估计，通过基因流动的形式，14%到38%的印第安人的祖先都源于这一支古老种群。”
A European contribution to Native American ancestry could explain two longstanding puzzles about the people’s origins. One is that many ancient Native American skulls, including that of the well-known Kennewick man, look very different from those of the present day population. Another is that one of the five mitochondrial DNA lineages found in Native Americans, the lineage known as X, also occurs in Europeans. One explanation is that Europeans managed to cross the Atlantic in small boats some 20,000 years ago and joined the Native Americans from Siberia.
而理解了欧洲人也是印第安人的祖先，就能够解释两个有关印第安人起源的历史难题。其中一个是，许多古代印第安人的头骨，包括著名的肯纳威克人(Kennewick man)的头骨，跟当今印第安人的头骨差异很大。另外一个难题是，印第安人的五大线粒体DNA谱系中，X这一系也出现在欧洲人身上。对于这些问题的其中一个解释是，大约两万年前，欧洲人不知怎地借助小船跨越了大西洋，从而跟来自西伯利亚的印第安人相聚。
Dr. Willerslev thinks it more likely that European bearers of the X lineage had migrated across Siberia with the ancestors of the Mal’ta culture and joined them in their trek across the Beringian land bridge.
威勒斯雷夫博士认为，那些带有X谱系线粒体DNA的欧洲人从西伯利亚出发，跟马尔他人的祖先一道，结伴跋涉走过白令大陆桥。
He said his finding does not solve the much-disputed question of when the Americas were first settled. Archaeologists long believed the people of the Clovis culture, dated from 13,000 years ago, were the first Americans, but several recent finds point to an earlier date. “We need the sequencing of more ancient genomes to address this question,” Dr. Willerslev said.
他表示，他的发现并没有解决人类最早什么时候定居美洲大陆的问题，而这个问题引发了大量争议。长期以来，考古学家相信，起源于1.3万年前克洛维斯文化(Clovis culture)的先民是第一批美洲大陆居民，但是最近的几项发现则提出了更早的日期。威勒斯雷夫博士表示，“我们需要将更多的古代基因组排序，来解决这个问题。”
Theodore G. Schurr, an anthropologist at the University of Pennsylvania, said Dr. Willerslev had provided an interesting new perspective on Native American origins that helped explain the presence of the mitochondrial X lineage in North America and enlarged the understanding of population history in Siberia. But the time and place of the East-West population mixing adduced by Dr. Willerslev is not yet clear, he said.
西奥多·G·舒尔(Theodore G. Schurr)是一位宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)的人类学家，他表示，就印第安人的起源，威勒斯雷夫博士提供了一个有趣的全新视角，这能够帮助解释X线粒体谱系为什么会存在北美人身上，同时加深了对于西伯利亚人类历史的了解。但是他也说，威勒斯雷夫博士引述的东西方人类种群混血的时间和地点仍然不太清晰。
An unexplained feature of the mixing is that the Mal’ta people did not pass on their mitochondrial DNA since the U lineage is unknown among Native Americans. Since mitochondrial DNA is passed down only through the female line, the population ancestral to Native Americans could have been formed by men of the Mal’ta culture who acquired East Asian wives.
关于混血，还有一点问题没有交代清楚，就是马尔他人并没有将它们的线粒体DNA遗传下去，因为印第安人身上并没有发现U族谱系。因为线粒体DNA仅通过母系遗传，印第安人的祖先很有可能是马尔他人的男性跟他的东亚妻子的后裔。
Dr. Willerslev sees this as one possibility, another being that mitochondrial DNA lineages are easily lost through genetic drift, the random change in DNA patterns through the generations. “One has to be careful setting up detailed geographical scenarios at this stage,” Dr. Willerslev said.
威勒斯雷夫博士认为这是一个可能的解释。还有一种可能就是，线粒体DNA谱系很容易因为基因漂变而丢失。所谓基因漂变是就是DNA模式在代际遗传中发生的随机改变。威勒斯雷夫博士表示，“现阶段，人们想要拿出详细的地理学假说，还必须得谨慎些。”