Late on the morning of April 3, the expedition ship Alucia rocked violently on the South Atlantic Ocean in the middle of a squall. On the aft deck, the crew huddled together in rain slickers and gazed across the heaving seas to a yellow blur on the horizon. This was an unmanned reconnaissance submarine carrying 15,000 photographs that they were nearly desperate to see. But it had buoyed to the surface just as the squall sprang up, and with 30-knot winds and four-foot swells that splashed over the stern, it was too dangerous to retrieve the sub. So they watched and waited.
2011年4月3日上午稍后，“阿卢西亚号”科考船在南大西洋一场暴雨狂风中剧烈地颠簸着。船尾甲板上，船员们披着雨衣挤在一起，目光越过波涛汹涌的海面，盯着远处一个黄色的模糊东西。那个模糊东西是一艘无人侦察潜艇，上面载着他们迫不及待想看到的15000张照片。但就在潜艇刚刚浮出水面之际，狂风暴雨凶猛袭来，7级的大风和1米多高的巨浪不断冲击着船尾，这时候去收回潜艇过于危险，船员们只好在注视中等待着。
For eight days, the Alucia had been trolling the ocean near a spot known as the L.K.P., or the Last Known Position of Flight 447, the Air France jet that vanished in June 2009, about halfway between South America and Africa. In the nearly two years since, three other search teams went looking for the wreckage, but this was the Alucia’s first try. The ship carried three Remus 6000 submarines, some of the most advanced underwater search vehicles on earth, which swept the seafloor in 20-hour runs, then surfaced to deliver sonar imagery to the Alucia’s scientific team, who pored over the data in 12-hour shifts around the clock. So far, they had not found the plane, but the day before, one scientist pointed at something unusual on the monitor and said, “What about this?” And ever since, the air on the Alucia was charged.
“阿卢西亚号”科考船在法国航空公司447号班机的最后已知位置附近海域进行搜寻已整整八天，法航447号班机2009年6月，在南美洲和非洲之间航线上距离南美大约一半的地方，从空中消失。在之后的近两年里，先后有其他三只搜寻队伍寻找过该机的残骸，这是“阿卢西亚号”科考船的首次尝试。考察船上载有三艘里莫斯6000型潜艇，这种潜艇是世界上最先进的水下探测设备，它们能连续20小时对海底进行扫描，然后浮出水面把声纳图像交给“阿卢西亚号”上的科学团队，这些科学家们12小时一班、连轴转地仔细分析着采集的数据。这之前，他们还没有找到失事的飞机，但就在此前一天，一位科学家指着显示屏上一个不寻常的东西问道：“这是什么？”从那时起，船上的气氛变得紧张起来。
Everyone knew the stakes. This wasn’t a scan of the Sargasso Sea or a study of salinity samples. The families of 228 passengers were restless for results. The search had already taken two years and cost more than $25 million. Another $12 million was committed to the Alucia this year, but French investigators had quietly decided that this year would be the last. If the Alucia did not find the plane, no one ever would.
每个人都知道这次工作的重大意义，这不是一次对马尾藻海的扫描、也不是一项采集海水盐度样本的研究。228名乘客的家属们等待答案已等得不耐烦了。搜寻工作已经为时两年，耗资超过2500万美元（相当于1.63亿元人民币）。本年度又拨给了“阿卢西亚号”1200万美元的资金进行搜寻，法国的调查机构已经悄然决定，这将是搜寻工作的最后一年。如果“阿卢西亚号”还找不到失事飞机的话，那就没可能找到了。
As expedition leader, Michael Purcell was equal parts colleague and boss, with a raspy voice and a sonic laugh and a playful sarcasm, but he knew the Remus subs as well as anyone. Looking at the fuzzy mark on the monitor, he knew they had found something unnatural. It was too long and straight to be geologic. It was unlike anything else on the seafloor. On the other hand, if it wasn’t Flight 447, Purcell knew the disappointment would be palpable. As he prepared the photographic sub to return to the bottom for an 18-hour mission, Purcell whispered to another scientist, “I’m 95 percent sure that’s it, but man, if it’s not, it’s going to be a long two and a half months.” The sub went down at 9:45 p.m. At 2 a.m., Purcell was still awake in his cabin. He picked up his journal. “Tired but not sleepy,” he wrote. “May have found the plane today. Everyone is on edge.”
科考队队长迈克尔·普塞尔(Michael Purcell)既是队员们的同事，也是整个队伍的主心骨，他声音粗犷，笑声爽朗，喜欢开玩笑，他对里莫斯型潜艇的熟悉程度不亚于任何人。看着显示屏上模糊的标记，他知道到他们发现了自然界不存在的东西。那东西太长、太直，不可能是某种地质结构，它与海底的任何东西都不一样。然而，从另一个方面来看，如果那东西不是法航447号班机的残骸，普塞尔也知道人们的失望会很明显。所以在他准备将摄影潜艇再次送到海底、进行一次18个小时的搜寻任务时，普塞尔对另外一位科学家悄声说，“我有95%的把握，但如果那不是的话，老天爷，未来的两个半月可就难熬了。”晚上9点45分，潜艇下潜，第二天凌晨2点，普塞尔在他的船舱里仍未入睡，他打开了自己的日记本写道，“虽然很累但毫无睡意，今天可能找到了飞机残骸，每个人都显得紧张不安。”
Four hours later, Purcell was up with the sun, and by late morning he was on deck with the crew, watching the Remus bob in the distance. A little after 1 p.m., they pulled the sub onboard and attached two thick cables to upload its data into the computers in the mission-control room. They drew the curtains around the room, so nonscientific crew members could not see in, and yanked the satellite uplink offline, so no one could leak the news. Then they crowded around the computer monitor as the first images of Flight 447 came onscreen: engines, landing gear and sections of fuselage, all unmistakably vivid on the ocean floor. But as they turned the satellite back on and began sending the first photos to air-crash investigators in France, the deeper implications of their discovery were just beginning to surface.
四个小时以后，普塞尔随着太阳的升起而醒来，上午稍后，他和船员们一起来到甲板上，看着远方的里莫斯潜艇在海面上漂浮。下午一点多，他们把潜艇拉到了船上，然后用粗粗的缆线将上面的数据下载到任务控制室中的计算机上。他们拉下了控制室的窗帘，以免非科考队成员的船员偷看，他们还切断了卫星的上行系统，这样就没人能把消息泄露出去。然后，他们挤在计算机显示屏前，法航447号班机的第一批图像一幅幅地展现在眼前：引擎，起落架，机身的部分，它们都确定无疑地、栩栩如生地躺在海底。他们重新开启卫星通讯，向法国负责调查这次事故的部门传出第一批图片，只是在这时，他们发现的更深层意义才刚刚开始浮出水面。
The vanishing of Flight 447 was easy to bend into myth. No other passenger jet in modern history had disappeared so completely — without a Mayday call or a witness or even a trace on radar. The airplane itself, an Airbus A330, was considered to be among the safest. It was equipped with the automated fly-by-wire system, which is designed to reduce human error by letting computers control many aspects of the flight. And when, in the middle of the night, in the middle of the ocean, Flight 447 seemed to disappear from the sky, it was tempting to deliver a tidy narrative about the hubris of building a self-flying airplane, Icarus falling from the sky. Or maybe Flight 447 was the Titanic, an uncrashable ship at the bottom of the sea.
法航447航班的失踪很容易被人蒙上神秘的色彩。现代史上，还没有任何一架喷气式客机像法航447号班机那样，消失得如此无影无踪：没有求救信号，没有目击者，甚至没有在雷达上留下任何痕迹。这是一架空客A330机型的飞机，是被认为最为安全的飞机之一。空客A330具备了全自动的线路控制飞行系统，这种设计的目的是，通过计算机控制涉及飞行的许多方面的操作，减少人为的失误。而当法航447号班机在深更半夜消失于大西洋之中后，对制造能自我飞行飞机的这种狂妄已经有一个有条理的诱人叙述，那就是古希腊神话中的伊卡鲁斯从空中跌落的故事。或者也可以将法航447号班机比作“泰坦尼克”，那艘号称永不沉没、却安睡海底的邮轮。
But the mystery of Flight 447 demands real answers, and not only for families of the dead. Every airplane, like every car, is built from thousands of parts made by dozens of manufacturers, and many of those parts appear in multiple aircraft. Until we know which parts, if any, failed on Flight 447, it is impossible to know which other planes might be at risk. As Jean-Paul Troadec, the director the French Bureau of Inquiry and Analysis (B.E.A.), which is investigating the crash, told me: “If there is a technical problem on this aircraft, we have to know. But this is not just an Airbus question. This accident could apply to every aircraft.”
但是，法航447班机的神秘失踪需要真正的答案，这不仅是为了那些遇难者家属们。每架飞机，就像每辆汽车那样，由几十家厂商制造的上千个的零部件组成，而许多这些零部件用在不同的机型上。在我们知道法航447班机上的哪些零部件（如果是零部件的问题的话）出现故障之前，就不可能知道还有哪些飞机有潜在的危险。正如负责调查此次空难的法国调查和分析局局长让·保罗·特洛阿德克(Jean-Paul Troadec)对我说的那样，“如果这架飞机出了技术故障的话，我们需要知道出在哪里。这不仅是空中客车的问题。这种事故可能会在任何一架飞机上发生。”
Over the last two years, several theories have emerged to explain the crash, but there is still no clear consensus. Early reports suggested terrorism — two names on the passenger list seemed to match those of Islamic radicals — but this was quickly ruled out. Weeks after the crash, as thousands of pieces of the airframe were scooped from the ocean surface and collected in a French government warehouse in Toulouse, some aviation experts speculated that the plane may have come apart in the air; others, looking at the same evidence, insisted that it landed in one piece and then shattered. There are mysteries about the plane’s flight path as well. Just before Flight 447 went down, it charged into a massive cluster of roiling clouds, even as three other planes made wide turns to avoid the weather. Why Flight 447 flew into the clouds may help explain why it never flew out.
在此前的两年中，人们给这次空难提出过几种理论，但没有一个大家都认可的共识。早期的报告提到过恐怖袭击的说法，因为乘客名单上有两个名字似乎与伊斯兰激进分子的相符，但这种可能性很快被排除了。空难发生后数周，随着机身的数千块碎片从海洋表面打捞起来，收集和存放到法国图卢兹的政府仓库中，一些航空专家曾推测，飞机可能在空中发生了解体；而另一些专家在观察了同样的这些碎片证据后，却坚持认为飞机是整体坠毁后分裂的。此外，飞机的航线也存在谜团。就在447号班机坠毁前不久，它飞进了一片巨大的翻滚云层之中，而其他三架飞机为了避开极端天气都绕开这片天空。447号班机为什么飞入这片云层的原因，也许有助于解释它为什么再也没有飞出来。
In the hours before the flight took off from Rio de Janeiro, there were no signs of mechanical trouble. Pilots who flew the plane in from Paris just a few hours earlier had reported problems with a radio panel on the left side of the cockpit, but mechanics swapped that panel, and there was a duplicate on the other side. Flight 447 was, or seemed, perfectly safe to fly.
在里约热内卢起飞前的几个小时里，飞机没有任何机械故障的迹象。几个小时前把飞机从巴黎飞过来的飞行员曾报告了驾驶舱左侧无线电通讯面板的小故障，而机械师也已更换了那个面板。而且，在驾驶舱右侧还有一个备用的无线电面板。447号班机应该或似乎能绝对安全地飞行。
A little after 6 p.m., the passengers filed onto the plane, the cabin door closed and Flight 447 pushed back from the gate. The flight has since been renumbered Flight 445 but otherwise remains the same. You barrel down the runway on an Airbus A330, then sweep up over the water, the lights of Rio shrinking to a yellow haze around the city’s black lagoon as you climb toward 35,000 feet, coursing north along the edge of the continent before turning east to Africa.
晚上6点刚过，乘客开始陆续登机，舱门关闭，447号班机退离登机口。虽然这趟航班的号码在事故发生后已改为445号，但其他的都没有变。这架空客A330飞机在跑道上加速，然后陡然上升到水面上，随着飞机向着11000米的高度爬升，里约热内卢的灯光逐渐变化为城市黑色潟湖周围的黄色迷雾，飞机沿着南美大陆的边缘向北飞行，然后向东转，飞往非洲。
All flights over the ocean cross certain checkpoints, and the most critical one for Flight 447 was Tasil Point. Almost halfway between South America and Africa, it serves as a switching station for air traffic control. On one side of Tasil, pilots report to Brazil; on the other, they belong to Senegal. In theory, it’s a place where air traffic controllers on both sides are watching; but in practice, it’s often a dark spot on radar, too far away from either continent to see. It’s also a place where high-frequency radios often cannot be heard, and it falls on top of the meteorological equator, where the winds of the hemispheres collide. Some days they die, and the stillness can be transfixing — sailors call the region the doldrums. But other times, the winds whip together into a black anvil storm that blooms through the depths of the troposphere, with a luminous violet glow gathering around ship masts and airplane wings — sailors call this St. Elmo’s Fire.
所有飞越大洋的班机都要经过一些特定的检查点，对于447班机来说，塔希尔检查点(Tasil Point)无疑是最重要的一个。这个检查点位于南美洲和非洲航线的几乎正中的位置上，起着空中交通管制的中转站的作用。在塔希尔的一侧，飞行员向巴西方面报告；在其另一侧，飞行员向塞内加尔方面报告。在理论上，双方的空中交通管制部门都在看管着塔希尔检查点。但实际上，这个位置在雷达上通常是一个非常暗的点，因为它离美洲大陆和非洲大陆的距离都太远。这也是一个经常接收不到高频率无线电波的地方，而且这个飞行区处于气象赤道之上，在这里，来自南半球的气流和来自北半球的气流撞到一起。有时候，这种撞击导致气流相互抵消，结果是风平浪静，让帆船动弹不得，水手们管这叫无风带。但也有时候，撞击的对流互相加强，形成一个黑色风暴，一直延伸到对流层，在围绕着船舶桅杆和飞机机翼的地方形成明亮的紫色光芒，水手们把这种现象叫做“圣艾摩尔之火”。
As Flight 447 began its journey toward Tasil Point, the skies seemed reassuringly clear. In the cockpit, the pilots chattered with Brazilian air traffic control, calling out altitude and radio frequencies. Sometime around midnight, the waxing moon, which had been gleaming through the port-side windows, dropped below the horizon, and Flight 447 was alone in the sky.
法航447班机飞向塔希尔检查点时，天空看似令人宽慰地晴朗。在驾驶舱内，飞行员在和巴西的空中交通管制人员对话，报告着飞行高度和无线电频率。午夜前后，曾把光线洒在机身左舷窗上的渐满月亮，慢慢地落到了地平线下，只留下447号班机独自在天上。
At 1:35, the pilots called Brazil to read off their altitude and flight plan. Three seconds later, controllers called back to ask when they would reach Tasil Point. Seven seconds passed, and Brazil called again. Another six seconds, and again. Flight 447 was gone.
凌晨1点35，飞行员向巴西方面报告了飞机的高度和飞行计划。三秒钟后，交管人员回了话，并询问了班机何时会到达塔希尔检查点。七秒钟过后，巴西方面与飞机又通了一次话。又过了六秒钟，再次通话。法航447班机却已消失。
To a pilot, the distant nowhere of Tasil Point is a treacherous cone of radio silence, but to an oceanographer like Purcell, there are few better places to be. The bottom of the ocean, after all, is not just a great expanse of sand; it is covered with hills and steppes and valleys, each with its own unfathomable intricacies, and among these the underwater mountains of the midocean ridge are among the most mysterious places on earth.
对于飞行员来说，塔希尔检查点是一个遥远的哪儿都不是的地方，是一个无线电波达不到的危险区域；但对于像普塞尔这样的海洋学家来说，地球上简直没有比那里更好的地方了。大洋的底部毕竟不是巨大无垠的沙漠，而是布满了山丘、平原，以及峡谷等地貌，每处有其自身的深不可测的复杂性，其中位于洋中脊的水下山脉是地球上最为神秘的地方之一。
The mountains date to the beginning of the planet as we know it today. Two hundred and fifty million years ago, as the supercontinent Pangaea broke into the seven continents, the stretching landmass tore fissures in the crust of the world, gaping canyons that spread apart and filled with the modern oceans. But under the water, volcanoes continued to erupt, sending up magma and forming mountains of basalt. Today, that mountain range still zigzags down the Atlantic and across the South Pacific and through the lower Indian Ocean, wrapping the globe like a crudely stitched soccer ball. Together they make the largest mountain range on the planet, 50,000 miles long and almost entirely unexplored, as tall as the Andes but two miles deep.
这些水下山脉在我们如今知道的地球形成的时候就存在了。两亿五千万年前，当盘古大陆分裂成七块时，大陆块的拉伸，撕裂了地球的地壳，形成了分开的峡谷，这些峡谷后来被水充满形成了现代的海洋。但是在水下，火山继续喷发，把岩浆输送上来，形成了玄武岩的山脉。时至今日，这些山脉在大西洋底部曲折蜿蜒，穿过南太平洋，一直延伸到更低的印度洋。这些山脉环绕着地球，就像是把一个足球胡乱缝起来的缝线。它们组成了这个行星上最长的山脉，足足有8万公里长，几乎未曾被探索过，它们的高度堪比安第斯山脉，但位于水下3公里多的深度。
Until the last few decades, the tools to explore these underwater mountains did not exist. Early submarines could go deep enough, but the terrain was impossibly forbidding. Even today, the machinery for a journey to the midocean ridge is prohibitively expensive for most teams. In the oceanography world, it is common to spend more than $1 million on an expedition, but a trip to the mountains at Tasil Point can easily cost 10 times as much and require submarines so advanced that only a handful of scientists know how to use them.
直到几十年前，能探索这些水下山脉的工具和技术都还不存在。早期的潜艇虽然可以到达足够的深度，但那里的地形令人望而生畏，让下潜几乎不可能。就算是今天，那种可以前往洋中脊的机器造价昂贵，让大多数科考队伍却步。在海洋学家的圈子里，一次科考探险活动的花费超过百万美元的很常见。但是，探索塔希尔检查点附近海下山脉所需的费用，很容易就是通常费用的十倍，而且需要具有特殊先进技术的潜艇，只有极少数的科学家掌握如何操作这种设备。
In the weeks after Flight 447 went down, as the French and Brazilian navies trolled the ocean near Tasil Point, they found more than 3,000 pieces of debris scattered across the surface, including fragments of the wings, most of the tail fin and the seats of cabin crew. They also found the bodies of 50 passengers, some still clothed and some still wearing jewelry. But as they transported the bodies to a morgue in Brazil and assembled the wreckage at a warehouse in Toulouse, the glimmering surface of the ocean remained as impenetrable as a shield of diamonds. When French investigators began calling oceanographers and deep-sea adventurers in a desperate effort to reach the bottom, the name of one organization kept coming up.
在法航447号班机坠落后的几周里，法国和巴西的海军在塔希尔检查点附近进行了仔细的搜寻，他们找到了散落在海面上的3000多块机身残骸，其中包括机翼的碎片，机尾的大部分，以及乘务人员的座椅。他们还找到了50具遇难者的遗体，一些遇难者仍穿着衣服、戴着首饰。但是，尽管遇难者的遗体被送往巴西的停尸房，收集到飞机残骸也被送到了位于法国图卢兹的仓库，大洋的粼粼海面却仍像钻石做成的盾牌那样，让海底的秘密牢不可破。当法国调查人员开始寻求海洋学家和深海探险者的帮助、为探测海底做出一次最后尝试时，一个机构的名字被不断提起。
The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution is a sprawling complex of shingled houses, brick laboratories and cavernous warehouses spread across two campuses in southern Cape Cod. In the 1970s, Woods Hole scientists discovered hydrothermal vents brimming with life at the bottom of the Pacific. In the 1980s, they discovered the Titanic under more than 12,000 feet of water. In the 1990s, their submarine laboratory pushed boundaries in underwater technology, building the first Remus in ’95, then adding cameras and new sensors and smarter computers, culminating in the Remus 6000. No other organization had more experience with the Remus than the scientists like Purcell who built it; and the director of special projects at Woods Hole, David Gallo, is an expert in the underwater mountains. In fact, he wrote his dissertation on the midocean ridge. When I asked Michel Guerard, a vice president at Airbus, how Woods Hole was selected to lead the search, he shrugged and said, “Because no one else in the world can do it.”
伍兹·霍尔海洋研究所位于美国马萨诸塞州科德角南部，由两个研究园区组成，园区中分布着木瓦结构的建筑群，砖墙覆盖的实验室，以及洞穴似的库房。上个世纪的70年代，研究所的科学家们在太平洋底发现了生机勃勃的热液喷口。80年代，他们在3600多米的深水下发现了"泰坦尼克号"。90年代，他们的潜艇研究室将水下技术推向新的深度，在1995年建造了第一艘里莫斯潜艇，后来又给潜艇添加了摄影机、新传感器，以及更先进的计算机，最终以里莫斯6000型潜艇达到了世界上最先进的水平。没有其他海洋研究机构有比像潜艇的制造者普塞尔那样更了解潜艇的科学家了。还有伍兹·霍尔海洋研究所的特别项目部主任，大卫·加洛(David Gallo)，他是研究水下山脉的专家。其实，他的博士论文就是关于洋中脊的研究。所以，当我问空客公司副总裁米歇尔·古哈德(Michel Guerard)，是怎么选择伍兹·霍尔海洋研究所来领导搜寻行动时，他耸了耸肩说道：“因为，在这个世界上，没有别人能干这件事。”
To find one of the most advanced airplanes in the sky, they would have to travel to one of the most primitive places on earth — and seek out one of the most archaic devices in modern aviation, a relic that has barely changed in the last half-century of flight: the black box.
为了找到飞上天的最先进飞机之一，他们不得不前往这个地球上几乎最原始的地方之一，去寻找现代航空史上一个最古老的装置，一个在过去半个世纪里几乎没有任何改变的老古董：黑匣子。
“It’s ridiculous,” Peter Goelz says. “There is absolutely no reason not to have live-streaming data.” As managing director of the National Transportation Safety Board in the late 1990s, Goelz saw his share of accidents, but the disappearance of Flight 447 got under his skin. The fact that in an era of wireless technology, when passengers on some jets can surf the Internet, the most valuable information about a flight is still stored on the very airplane that has, by definition, crashed before the information is needed, did not sit well with Goelz.
“这很荒唐，”彼得·戈尔兹(Peter Goelz)说道，“没有任何理由不使用实时数据流来传送数据。”在20世纪90年代末期担任美国国家运输安全委员会执行主任的戈尔兹，在任期内经历过几次事故，但法航447号班机的失事却让他感到了切肤之痛。在这个无线网络技术发达的时代，有些航班上的乘客已经可以在飞行途中上网浏览，而有关飞行的最有价值的信息，却仍存储在飞机本身上，在人们需要这些信息之前，已经按照定义，跟着飞机一起坠落，这让戈尔兹不可接受。
“I’ve had arguments with pilots over this,” he told me. “They don’t want anyone monitoring their performance. But every 7-Eleven clerk in America has a bank of cameras on him. Why can’t pilots?”
“我和很多飞行员就这个问题有过争论，”他对我说，“他们不想让任何人监督他们的飞行表现，但是，美国每家7-Eleven连锁店的店员头上都有一堆摄像头。为什么飞行员就不能（接受监督）呢？”
The technology to stream data from planes does have some limitations. To stream all the data from every plane might well require more satellite bandwidth than the total amount in orbit. But some companies have found a solution: instead of streaming all data, they equip planes with a system that streams on demand. In case of trouble, a pilot pushes a button to begin sending down data, and in some conditions, like the failure of autopilot, the data streams automatically. Airlines could also simply stream the data from select flights, like those crossing rough terrain — the Himalayas, for example, or the midocean ridge. When I mentioned that idea to Alain Bassil, the chief operating officer of Air France, he nodded and said, “That would be a good solution.” Then he added, “Hopefully soon.”
从飞机上传送数据流的技术确实面临一些限制。如果从每架飞机上实时传送所有数据的话，就需有比现有的在轨卫星所能提供的总带宽还要多的带宽。有些航空公司想出了一种解决方案：不实时传送所有的数据，而是给飞机装上一种系统，这种系统可根据需要实时传送数据。遇到麻烦时，飞行员一按键钮就可以开始下传数据，在某些情况下，比如自动驾驶系统出故障时，飞机会自动开启数据流传输。航空公司也可以有选择地给某些航班配置数据流传输，比如那些穿越像喜马拉雅山脉或者洋中脊这些复杂地形的航班。当我把这个想法告诉法航的首席运营官阿兰·巴希尔(Alain Bassil)时，他点头说道：“那是一个不错的解决方案”，然后他又加了一句，“希望不久能投入使用。”
In late April, after analyzing pictures from the Alucia, French investigators returned to Tasil Point and deployed a recovery submarine to a spot that appeared to hold one of the black boxes. Sure enough, the box was there — but its data was gone. At some point, the cylinder that holds the data apparently broke off. On May 1, the cylinder was found on the ocean floor nearby; and on May 3 the other black box’s cylinder, which contains the cockpit voice recording, was also located and recovered. In the days ahead, both cylinders will be delivered to the basement of the B.E.A. in Paris, where investigators may still be able to decipher them, even after two years underwater.
2011年4月底，在仔细分析了从"阿卢西亚号"上传回的照片以后，法国的调查人员重返塔希尔检查点，并派出一艘能从海底取回物品的潜艇，前往看似失事客机的一个黑匣子的所在地点。果然，黑匣子从那里被打捞上来，但黑匣子里的数据却不见了，保存数据的圆筒不知在何处断裂离开了黑匣子。5月1日，圆筒在那个黑匣子附近的海底被发现；5月3日，另一个黑匣子的圆筒也被找到，并打捞上来，这个黑匣子里有驾驶舱内声音的录音。接下来的几天里，这两个黑匣子都将被送往位于巴黎的法国调查和分析局的地下室里，那里的调查人员能够将它们破译，尽管它们在水下已沉睡了两年之久。
But even without the black-box data, several things are clear. From the meteorological charts near Tasil Point, the safety record of certain Airbus parts, the flight protocols of Air France and the air traffic control logs, it is possible to piece together some events from the fall of Flight 447 that answer some pivotal questions and raise others.
但即使没有黑匣子的数据，一些事情已经水落石出。从来自塔希尔检查点的气象记录、某些空中客车零件的安全记录、法航的飞行操作程序，以及空中交通管制的日志记录等信息中，可以拼凑出有关447号班机失事的一些关键问题的答案，但同时也提出一些其他问题。
In the last four minutes before the crash, the airplane sent a series of 24 automatic fault messages to a maintenance center in France. Among these, the first to jump out at experts involved a part called the pitot probe. Pitots (pronounced PEE-toes) are small cylinders that sit outside the body of the plane to calculate airspeed. The cost of a pitot probe is not high — about $3,500 each for the model on Flight 447, which disappears in the $200 million cost of a plane — but their importance would be hard to overstate. Without them, a plane’s flight computer has no way to determine speed, and the automatic pilot shuts down. That means that if any of the pitot probes, sticking out into the wind, happen to get clogged with dirt or ice, the plane will suddenly revert to manual control, forcing pilots to take the stick of a half-million-pound aircraft in whatever conditions disrupted the pitot in the first place.
在坠毁前的4分钟里，这架飞机向位于法国的维护中心自动发送了24条故障信息。其中马上引起专家注意的是有关被称为皮托管探针的信息。皮托管是装在飞机机身外部的小圆管，是测量飞行速度用的。皮托管的造价不高，装在447航班机型上的皮托管大约3500美元一个，这在飞机两亿美元的造价中简直微不足道，但其重要性却怎么说也不过分。如果皮托管不工作了，控制飞机飞行的计算机就无法知道飞行速度，自动驾驶系统就会关闭。皮托管的探针是伸到风中的，就是说，如果任何一个探针被灰尘或冰晶堵住了，飞机就有可能突然切换到手动控制状态，迫使飞行员用驾驶杆来控制这个重达200多吨的庞然大物，不管最初导致皮托管失灵的情况究竟是什么。
In theory, this shouldn’t cause a crash. The probes can be compared to a speedometer in a car: steady on the gas, and you’ll be fine. Pilots are trained to respond to pitot failure by maintaining pitch and thrust until the probes resume working. Most of the time, they do.
从理论上来说，皮托管失灵并不应该导致飞机失事。这个设备可以比作汽车上的速度表：只要不改变速度，肯定不会出事。飞行员在接受训练时也学过如何应对皮托管故障：只需要保持飞机在空中的俯仰角和飞行推力，直到探针恢复工作就没问题。在绝大部分情况下，探针会恢复正常。
But during the period of manual control, the margin of error is thin. For a passenger jet like the A330, the ideal cruising speed is about 560 miles per hour. If you go much faster, the center of lift moves back on the wing, pushing the nose down and increasing velocity, until you soon approach the speed of sound. At that point, shockwaves develop on the wings, interrupting the flow of air and reducing lift. The nose of the plane then gets forced into a dive that the pilot may not be able to pull out of. Then again, if you go too slow, the airplane stalls and falls. A plane must maintain a minimum speed to generate lift, and the higher it travels, the faster it must go. At 35,000 feet, the gap between too fast and too slow narrows ever closer. Pilots call it coffin corner.
但在手动控制期间，几乎没有可以犯错误的余地。一架像空客A330型号的客机，其理想的巡航速度是每小时大约900公里。如果飞得太快的话，升力的中心会向机翼后部移动，使飞机的机头朝下，导致飞行速度增加，直到飞机接近音速。在那一刻，冲击波会在机翼上形成，扰乱气流，降低飞机的升力。这时，飞机的机头会被迫进入近乎垂直下降的状态，飞行员可能无法将飞机拉出这种状态。而如果飞行速度太慢的话，飞机就会失去上升力，飞机随之下坠。所以，飞机必须保持一个最低速度以产生升力，而且飞行的高度越高，飞机维系升力的速度也越高。在11000米的高空，过快和过慢之间的安全飞行速度的范围很小，飞行员们把这个范围称为“棺材角”。
Looking over the recent history of pitot failure can be unnerving. Peter Goelz, the former N.T.S.B. director, recalled several episodes during his tenure, but one in particular stood out: the crash of Birgenair Flight 301 in February 1996. “We had a Boeing 757 that had been on the ground in the Dominican Republic for a month,” he said. The investigation concluded that “during that time, one of the pitot probes got an insect nest built in it. Well, the crew took off and flew the plane right into the ocean.” All 189 people onboard died.
回顾几起因皮托管失灵而导致事故的近期历史很让人心惊。美国国家运输安全委员会前主任彼得·戈尔兹回忆了他任期内的几起事故，有一起显然与众不同：1996年2月失事的Birgenair 301号班机。“那架波音757飞机在多米尼加共和国停放了一个月，”他说道。调查结果是：在那个月里，一种昆虫在皮托管的一个探针内安了家。机组不知道，照常起飞，把飞机一头飞入大洋，机上189人全部遇难。
The pitot probes on Flight 447 were even more vulnerable than most in conditions like those at Tasil Point. They were produced by a French company, Thales, and the model was known as AA. In the years leading up to the crash of Flight 447, the Thales AA was problematic in places where the meteorological conditions do funny things with water. At high altitude and low temperatures, water sometimes doesn’t freeze. Instead, it hovers, but as soon as something solid — like a pitot tube — flies through it, the water flash-freezes to form ice. Until heaters can melt the ice, the pitot probes are out.
法航447号班机上装的皮托管比其他厂家生产的更脆弱，尤其是在飞越像塔希尔检查点附近的环境时。法航的皮托管由法国的泰勒斯公司生产，型号为AA。在447号班机失事前的几年里，泰勒斯AA皮托管一直在气象条件让水的状态变得很奇怪的环境中表现不佳。在高海拔和低气温的环境下，水有时并不结冰，而是处于一种不稳定的状态，一旦有像皮托管那样的固体物质从中经过，水会附着在其表面闪冻成冰。除非用加热器将冰融化，否则皮托管的探针就会失效。
This could happen to any kind of pitot probe, but by the summer of 2009, the problem of icing on the Thales AA was known to be especially common. Why the probes were still in use is a contentious question, but here is what we know for sure: Between 2003 and 2008, there were at least 17 cases in which the Thales AA had problems on the Airbus A330 and its sister plane, the A340. In September 2007, Airbus issued a “service bulletin” suggesting that airlines replace the AA pitots with a newer model, the BA, which was said to work better in ice.
这种情况有可能发生在所有类型的皮托管上。但在2009年夏天以前，人们已经知道泰勒斯AA型皮托管结冰的问题有尤其常见。为什么这种皮托管仍然在使用是一个有争议的问题，但有些事实我们可以肯定：从2003年到2008年间，空客A330及其姊妹系列空客A340的客机发生过至少17次泰勒斯AA皮托管故障的案例。2007年9月，空客公司曾发布一个“技术服务公告”，建议将所有的AA型皮托管更换成新的BA型，BA型皮托管据称能更好地在结冰环境中工作。
In response, Air France’s official policy was to replace the AA pitots on its A330 planes “only when a failure occurred.” In August 2008, executives at Air France asked Airbus for proof that the BA pitots worked better in ice, and faced with the question, Airbus conceded that it did not have proof. So it removed the claim from the service bulletin. Another five months passed.
作为对公告的响应，法航的官方政策是，在A330客机上“只是皮托管出故障后”，才更换AA型皮托管。2008年8月，法航的高管曾要求空客公司拿出BA型皮托管能在结冰环境更好工作的证据来，面对这个要求，空客公司承认并没有证据。所以，空客公司将这个建议从其技术服务公告上撤了下来。又有五个月过去了。
During that time, another airline, Air Caraïbes, experienced two close calls with the Thales AA on its Airbus A330s. The company’s chief executive immediately ordered the part scrapped from the fleet and alerted European regulators, who then began asking questions. In their conversations with Airbus, regulators learned of the 17 cases of icing, and they also discovered, looking at those cases, that the failures seemed to be happening more often (9 of the 17 occured in 2008). None of the failures seemed to signal an immediate danger, so the Thales AA was not removed from service. Regulators simply asked Airbus to watch the problem and report back in a year.
在那期间，加勒比航空公司的两架空客A330型客机，由于泰勒斯AA皮托管的问题险些失事。该公司的首席执行官立刻下令，将公司所有飞机上的那个部件报废、进行更换，他还提醒了欧洲的监管人员，他们这才开始询问调查。在与空客公司的交谈中，监管人员得知了那17起皮托管冻冰的案例，通过这些案例他们还发现，故障似乎正在以更高的频率发生（在17起事故中，9起发生在2008年）。这些故障中没有一起似乎预示了即刻的危险，所以泰勒斯AA皮托管并没有从飞机上拆下来。监管人员只是要求空客公司注意这个问题，来年再汇报一下。
It wasn’t until April 2009 that Airbus delivered test results to Air France showing that the BA really did work better in ice. By then, 19 months had passed since the service bulletin suggesting the same thing, but now Air France made the change. At the end of April, the airline ordered replacement BA probes for its A330s, and on May 26, the first batch of probes arrived. Five days later, when Flight 447 took off in Rio, the probes were still in an Air France warehouse, and none of them had been installed. All three pitots on Flight 447 were the Thales AA.
直到2009年4月，空客公司才向法航提交了测试报告，报告证明泰勒斯BA皮托管的确能在结冰环境中更好地工作。此时，距技术服务公告中所提出同样建议的时间，已过去了19个月，但这次法航决定进行更换。4月底，法航为其所有空客A330型飞机订货更换泰勒斯BA皮托管；5月26日，第一批新皮托管到货；五天后，当447号班机从里约热内卢起飞时，新皮托管仍放在法航的一个仓库里，还没有一个新的被装到飞机上。447号班机上全部的三个皮托管仍是泰勒斯AA型的。
The headquarters of Air France is a huge white box that squats near the runways at Charles de Gaulle Airport. One day this spring, I visited the building to meet with the company’s chief operating officer, Alain Bassil, in his office overlooking the tarmac. Bassil is a trim man in his mid-50s, with a tight smile and a mustache so neat that it seems penciled in.
法航总部位于戴高乐机场跑道附近的一座巨大的白色建筑内。2011年春季的一天，我来到这座大楼，在其俯瞰停机坪的办公室里，和法航的首席运营官阿兰·巴希尔见面。巴希尔身材均称，50多岁，挂着勉强的笑脸，他的一撇上唇胡子修剪得如此整齐，简直像是用铅笔画上去的。
Since the disappearance of Flight 447, some of the passengers’ families have come to regard Bassil and the other executives at Air France and Airbus as a cast of corporate villains. In Brazil, for example, I met with Maarten Van Sluys, a soft-spoken man in his late 40s who lost his sister, Adriana, on the flight and now leads the official association of Brazilian families. “There is a cover-up,” Van Sluys told me. “There is no doubt about it.” His claim was that French investigators located the wreckage long ago, already knew the cause of the crash and were keeping it secret to protect Air France and Airbus. “They don’t want to disclose problems with the fly-by-wire system,” he said.
自从法航447班机消失以来，一些遇难者家属已把巴希尔和法航以及空客公司的高管看做一群企业恶棍。比如在巴西，我曾采访过一位名叫马尔滕·范·斯路易斯(Maarten Van Sluys)的人，他不到50岁，说话轻声轻语，他的妹妹阿德丽娜(Adriana)乘447航班遇难，他现为官方的巴西遇难家属联合会的领导。范·斯路易斯对我说，“毫无疑问，他们在隐瞒真相。”他声称，法国调查人员早就确定了失事飞机残骸的位置，也知道客机失事的原因，但为了保护法航和空客两家大公司而在保密。“他们不想让线路控制飞行系统的问题暴露出来”，他说。
This may sound extreme — and there is no evidence of a cover-up — but among the families of Flight 447, there is a range of opinion on the French investigation, and many of them express a sense of frustration. In Paris, I spoke with Gwenola Roger, whose boyfriend, Nicolas Toulliou, proposed to her a week before the crash on a moonlit walk by the Louvre. Sitting quietly in a friend’s apartment, Roger cut a vaguely regal figure as she spoke of her love for Nicolas and of her loss — then she lowered her voice and said: “They still haven’t said what they know. One day we will learn the truth.”
这听起来也许有些过分，没有证据表明有人要隐瞒真相，但447航班遇难者的家属们对法方的调查有各种不同意见，许多人都表示相当失望。在巴黎，我采访了一位名叫格温诺拉·罗杰(Gwenola Roger)的女士，她的男友尼古拉·图里洛(Nicolas Toulliou)在遇难的一周前，在一次卢浮宫前的月光漫步时，向她求了婚。格温罗娅静静地坐在一个朋友的公寓里，看上去依稀有点贵族风度，她向我诉说了她对男友的爱、以及失去男友的痛苦，然后，她放低声音说：“他们仍还没有说出他们知道的东西。总有一天，我们会了解真相。”
Over the last two years, the B.E.A. has in fact issued two bound reports, which include more than 200 pages of extensive data on the crash. From the first page, each report makes clear that “the investigation is not conducted in such a way as to apportion blame.” This is the formal mandate of the agency, which is expected to rise above the contentious aftermath of tragedy and deliver just the facts. All of which sounds very reasonable, until you are a grief-stricken family member, two years after the crash, holding the only official accident reports, which seem to announce on Page 1 that any wrongdoing will be ignored. “If you don’t want to find out who was at fault,” Van Sluys asked, “why do the investigation?”
在此前的两年间，法国调查和分析局曾发布了两份装订起来的报告，其中包括200多页的有关飞机失事的大量数据。在每份报告的第一页上都明确指出，“这项调查不是以那种为了追究责任的方式进行的。”这个调查机构的正式授权就是如此，对它的期望是，它能超越悲剧带来的有争议的后果，只提供事实。所有这些听起来都很合理，直到你成为一位沉浸在悲痛中的遇难者家属，在飞机失事的两年后，你得到了这份官方的调查报告，报告似乎在第一页上就宣布，将忽略任何不当行为。范·斯路易斯问道，“如果不是为了找出是谁的过错，为什么要调查？”
In private, some B.E.A. investigators agree that they have found things that disturb them. After the plane’s final communication, for example, it took nearly 11 hours for a search team to be sent to Tasil Point. For the first hour, air traffic controllers generated a “virtual flight” on their computers, as is common practice, passing the plane along its intended route. For the next two hours, controllers checked periodically to see if anyone had seen the plane, and when a controller in Brazil asked a controller in Senegal if the plane had reached Cape Verde, the controller in Senegal said that Cape Verde hadn’t talked to them but not to worry; so the controller in Brazil didn’t. By the time Air France alerted a satellite search-and-rescue, 4 hours and 20 minutes had passed, and then it was another two hours before anyone notified the B.E.A. A search team lifted off in Dakar 10 hours after the last radio contact and for the next 45 minutes flew toward Cape Verde, where they assumed the plane had gone down.
法国调查和分析局的一些调查人员在私下表示，他们也认为所发现的一些问题令他们不安。比如，在飞机最后一次与控制中心联系之后，几乎过了11个小时，才向塔希尔检查点派出了救援队伍。在失去联系后的第一个小时，空中交通管制人员在计算机上产生了一个“虚拟飞行”图，好像飞机在按既定航线行驶，这是一种习惯做法；之后的两个小时中，控制人员定时检查，看是否有人联系到了航班，当巴西方面向塞内加尔方面询问飞机是否抵达佛得角时，来自塞内加尔方面的答复是，佛得角方面还没有飞机的消息，但不用担心，所以巴西方面没有担心。等到法航向一个卫星提请搜救的时候，已经过去了4小时20分钟；又过了两个小时才有人通知了法国调查和分析局；距飞机发出最后一次无线电联系10个小时之后，一支搜救队伍从达喀尔起飞，45分钟后抵达佛得角，因为他们假定那是飞机失事的地点。
When I asked the director of the B.E.A., Jean-Paul Troadec, if this was a suitable response time, he practically jumped from his seat and cried: “No! It’s not! The alert should have been much more quick!” Yet the reports from Troadec’s office draw no such conclusion. When I asked another B.E.A. investigator, Olivier Ferrante, whether it is difficult to write the reports without pointing out mistakes, he acknowledged that it is a matter of craft. “This requires discipline in report writing,” he said. “For example, we don’t use the word ‘fault.’ We prefer to use the word ‘error,’ which has more proactive connotations.”
当我提问法国调查和分析局局长，让·保罗·特洛阿德克，这是否是合适的响应时间时，他几乎从椅子上跳起来喊道：“不是！当然不是！报警应该更快地发出！”然而，来自特洛阿德克办公室的调查报告却没有给出这个结论。我问法国调查与分析局的另外一位调查人员，奥利维·费兰特，撰写一份不指出错误的调查报告是否很困难，他承认那是一个写作艺术的问题。他说，“这需要在写报告中严守纪律。比如，我们不使用‘过失’一词，我们倾向于用‘差错’这个词，这个词有更积极的内涵。”
Air-crash investigators at the N.T.S.B. say the American approach is very different. Jim Hall, a former N.T.S.B. chairman, told me that American investigators in the same position would have no trouble acknowledging if a search team took too long or if a plane was flying with faulty parts. “That would not be a problem at the N.T.S.B.,” he said. “If the board found that a part needed to be recalled, they would make that recommendation.” Hall explained that the difference in France is largely systemic: every crash is supposed to involve two parallel investigations, one by the B.E.A. to compile technical data and the other by a judge to consider liability. But when the judicial inquiry takes 22 months to begin, as it did for Flight 447, the half-scope of the B.E.A.’s work stands alone and incomplete. Hall told me that the French approach is “a mistake.” Goelz was less diplomatic. “There’s always been a sniff of politics at the B.E.A.,” he said, recalling the crash of Air France 4590, which erupted in flames just after takeoff at Charles de Gaulle in 2000. After a four-year probe, B.E.A. investigators decided that the crash was not caused by anything on the French plane but by a thin strip of metal that fell on the tarmac from a Continental flight minutes earlier. In Goelz’s opinion, “there was never any question that somebody else was going to be pointed out as the blame; and Continental became it.”
美国国家运输安全委员会的事故调查人员说，美国的方法与法国的有很大差别。美国国家运输安全委员会前主任吉姆·霍尔(Jim Hall)告诉我，处于同样位置上的美国调查人员，指出搜救队伍是否姗姗来迟、或者飞机是否在零件有故障的情况下飞行，不会遇到麻烦。“这样做对国家运输安全委员会来说，不是个问题，”他说，“如果委员会发现飞机的某个零部件需要召回，他们就会做出那种建议。”霍尔解释说，法国调查的最大不同主要在于体制：法国的每起事故原则上要有两个平行的调查，一个由法国调查与分析局进行，目的是收集技术数据，另一个由法官进行，为的是考虑责任问题。但是，当447航班空难的司法调查在事故发生了22个月才开始时，法国调查与分析局负责的那半工作是唯一开启了的调查，而且还很不完整。霍尔告诉我，法国的做法是“一个错误”。而戈尔兹的说法就更直截了当。“法国调查和分析局的工作总带着政治气味，”他说，他回顾了法航4590班机2000年失事的调查，这架班机刚从戴高乐机场起飞，就失火了，之后坠毁。经过4年的调查，法国调查与分析局给出的结论是，班机的坠毁并非由于客机本身的任何原因，而是因为几分钟前从一架美国大陆航空公司的班机上掉落在停机坪上的一个金属薄片。在戈尔兹看来，“在要将责任推给别人这点上，从来都没有疑问，所以大陆航空公司成了替罪羊。”
The French state is not just investigating Air France and Airbus but is also a prime investor in them. In fact, the French government, which nationalized Air France in 1945, currently owns nearly 16 percent of Air France-KLM, a stake worth about $830 million, and controls 3 of the 15 seats on the company’s board. The government also owns about 15 percent of the parent company for Airbus, which is worth another $3.8 billion. Of course, other countries also have a financial stake in their national airlines, and there is no evidence that the B.E.A. investigation has been compromised. But for a government to investigate a company it owns is the very definition of conflicted interest. It also turns out that the underwater search this spring was entirely financed by Air France and Airbus — and as one Air France executive told me, directly “by cash.” (Air France made a point of saying that it did not control the investigation and gave no directive to the search team, and this is confirmed by people at Woods Hole.) One day during the search, I asked Troadec what would happen if the Woods Hole team asked for additional funds for something the companies were unwilling to provide. Troadec sighed. “Any problem like that,” he assured me, “should be resolved in good faith.” When I asked Goelz if the N.T.S.B. would allow the target of an investigation to control the purse strings in the same way, he laughed. “No, no, no,” he said. “We would charge parties for underwater retrieval, but we would control the money.”
法国政府不仅负责调查法航和空客公司，但同时也是这两家公司的主要投资者。实际上，法国政府在1945年将法航收归国有后，目前拥有法航-荷航集团16%的股份，股权价值（在2011年本文发表时，译注）约为8.3亿美元，法国政府在集团董事会的15个席位中占有3席。法国政府还拥有空客母公司15%的股份，价值38亿美元。当然，其他国家政府也在本国的国有航空公司占有一定股份，而且也没有任何证据表明，法国调查与分析局的调查工作打了折扣。但让一个政府调查自己拥有的公司，这是典型的利益冲突。事实表明，2011年春季进行的水下搜寻工作，也完全由法航和空客公司资助，某位法航高管告诉我，是直接给的“现金”。（法航强调指出，公司不控制搜寻工作，也没有给搜寻队伍下过任何指令，这点得到了伍兹·霍尔海洋研究所的证实）。在搜寻工作进行中的某天，我问特洛阿德克，如果伍兹·霍尔海洋研究所的搜寻团队，要求公司提供更多的资金，来从事某种公司不想支持的工作，那会怎么样呢？特洛阿德克叹了口气，他向我保证，“任何类似的问题都应该靠诚意来解决。”当我问戈尔兹，美国国家运输安全委员是否会允许被调查的对象来控制调查机构的钱袋子时，他大笑道，“不，不会，不可能。”他说，“如果需要从水下取回东西的话，我们会向对方收费，但我们会控制如何使用资金。”
In the absence of a more critical public examination, Air France has conducted its own safety review and implemented its own improvements, though it has not explained what it has found or what it is changing or why. This is not to say that the airline hasn’t looked inward. In December 2009, five months after the crash, Air France commissioned an internal review of nearly all aspects of its operations. But when I asked Bassil and two other executives — Etienne Lichtenberger, the director of flight safety, and Bertrand Lebel, an executive vice president—– to explain what lessons Air France drew from the accident, they declined to say.
在缺少更严格的公共监督的情况下，法航自己进行了内部安全审查，即使它并没有公布发现了什么问题，也没有解释有哪些方面需要改变、为什么要改变。这并不是说，法航没有调查内部的问题。2009年12月，航班失事的五个月后，法航委托一个机构来审查公司内部操作的几乎所有方面。但当我问巴希尔以及法航其他两位高管：飞行安全中心主任埃特尼·里希滕伯格(Etienne Lichtenberger)和执行副总裁伯特兰·勒贝尔(Bertrand Lebel)，法航从这次事故中得到什么教训时，他们都拒绝回答。
“The problem,” Bassil said, “is that we still don’t know what happened.”
巴希尔说，“问题在于我们仍然不清楚到底发生了什么。”
“We do know certain facts,” I offered.
“我们确知某些事实，”我指出。
“There are very few facts,” Lebel said.
“所知的事实非常少，”勒贝尔说。
“There are two interim reports full of facts,” I said.
“两份中期调查报告中有那么多事实，”我说。
“We are not able to draw any conclusions,” Lebel said.
“我们无法从中做出任何结论，”勒贝尔说。
“You haven’t drawn any conclusions?” I asked.
“你们没有从中得出任何结论吗？”我问。
“We are drawing conclusions,” he said, “and they will be explained.”
“我们正在得出一些结论，”他答道，“这些结论将会解释给大家听。”
Bassil leaned forward. “We are not in a position to say anything else.”
巴希尔身子前倾强调说：“我们没有能说其他任何话的资格。”
“Can you explain why you’re not in a position to say?”
“能解释一下，为什么你们没有说话的资格吗？”
“Because we do not have anything else to say,” he said.
“因为我们没有什么别的可说的，”他答道。
As I asked repeated questions about the pitot probes, the service bulletins and the search delays, they responded either in prepackaged talking points or by saying they had no comment.
我多次问到有关皮托管探针、技术服务公告、以及救援缓慢的问题，他们要么用事先准备好的谈话要点来回答，要么就干脆说“无可奉告”。
On March 18, four days before the Alucia set sail, a French magistrate finally began the requisite judicial probe of the crash, and as that investigation makes its way toward court, it is joined by nearly a dozen civil lawsuits filed by family members. Perhaps as the legal discovery process moves forward, and if the black box data can be deciphered by analysts, new light will shine on the regulatory and corporate decisions that preceded to the crash. In the meantime, one of the only places in either B.E.A. report that offers any hint of criticism is directed toward the Brazilian morgue where the bodies of 50 passengers were taken to be identified. “At this stage of the investigation,” the report notes, “the B.E.A. has not had access to the autopsy data.”
2011年3月18日，“阿卢西亚号”起航前四天，一位法国法官终于启动了对空难的必要司法调查，随着司法调查向走上法院的方向进展，十几件由遇难者家属提起的民事诉讼也在进行中。在法律发现过程向前推进的同时，如果黑匣子中的数据被分析人员破译，也许将有对飞机失事发生之前的监管和企业决策的新一轮审视。在新东西出来之前，那份法国调查和分析局的报告中唯有的几处批评暗示之一，是把矛头指向了那个巴西停尸房，50名遇难者的遗体被送到那里辨认。报告指出：“调查进行到这个阶段，法国调查和分析局仍未能得到任何尸检数据。”