BEIJING — From taxi tailpipes in Paris to dung-fired stoves in New Delhi, air pollution claimed seven million lives around the world in 2012, according to figures released Tuesday by the World Health Organization. More than one-third of those deaths, the organization said, occurred in fast-developing nations of Asia, where rates of cardiovascular and pulmonary disease have been soaring.
北京——根据世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)本周二公布的数据，从巴黎的出租车尾气到新德里的烧粪的炉灶所造成的空气污染在2012年夺走了全球700万人的生命。世卫组织表示，这其中有逾三分之一的死亡病例发生在亚洲那些发展迅速的国家，那里的心血管疾病和肺病发病率一直在飙升。
Around the world, one out of every eight deaths was tied to dirty air, the agency determined — twice as many as previously estimated. Its report identified air pollution as the world’s single biggest environmental health risk.
世卫组织认定，在全球范围内，每八宗死亡病例中就有一宗和污浊的空气有关，是之前预计的数值的两倍。该组织的报告把空气污染明确为全球最大的单一性环境健康风险因素。
“The big news is that we have a better understanding of how large a role air pollution plays in strokes and coronary heart attacks,” said Dr. Carlos Dora, coordinator of public health and the environment at the organization. “Given the astronomical costs, countries need to find a way to prevent these noncommunicable diseases.”
世卫组织的公共卫生与环境司协调员卡洛斯·多拉(Carlos Dora)说，“一条重大的消息是，对于空气污染对中风及心血管疾病的诱发作用有多大，我们有了更清晰的认识。考虑到它们带来的巨大成本，各国需要寻找途径来预防这些非传染性疾病。”
The report found that those who are most vulnerable live in a wide arc of Asia stretching from Japan and China in the northeast to India in the south.
报告发现，最脆弱的群体居住在亚洲境内一条宽广的弧形地带上，从东北部的日本和中国一直延伸到了南部的印度。
Exposure to smoke from cooking fires means that poor women are especially at risk, the agency said
世卫组织表示，贫穷女性因为接触灶火产生的油烟而格外具有风险。
Indoor air pollutants loomed as the largest threat, involved in 4.3 million deaths in 2012, while toxic air outdoors figured in 3.7 million deaths, the agency said. Many deaths were attributed to both.
世卫组织透露，室内空气污染物已森然逼近，成为最大的威胁。2012年，有430万人死于室内空气污染，还有370万人死于室外有毒空气。其中许多人的死是两种污染共同造成的。
The bank estimated that China will spend $5.3 trillion on urban infrastructure over the next 15 years, as it plans to move 100 million farmers to cities and to better integrate another 100 million who already live in urban areas.
世行估计，随着中国计划把1亿农民迁入城镇，并让另1亿已在城市生活的农民更好地融入城镇生活，今后15年，中国将在城镇基础建设上投入5.3万亿美元（约合33万亿元人民币）。
The study said the Chinese government could save $1.4 trillion of that cost — or about 15 percent of the country’s total economic output last year — by planning its cities more rationally.
该研究认为，通过更合理的城市规划，中国政府能都节省1.4万亿美元成本，大约相当于中国去年的经济产出的15%。
The bank said that building more densely in city centers would be more efficient; for example, Guangzhou, with 8.5 million residents, could accommodate 4.2 million more in the same space if it were as densely developed as Seoul, South Korea.
世行表示，加大城市中心建设密度会更有效；比如，如果能以开发韩国首尔的密度开发现有850万居民的广州，那么相同的空间就能再多容纳420万人口。
China has said it wants one billion of its people, about 60 percent of the population, to be living in cities by 2020 — up from 54 percent now. But the bank said urbanization is moving much faster than that, and so are the problems it creates.
中国提出，希望到2020年让10亿人，即60%的人口在城镇生活。目前的比例为54%。不过世行认为，中国城镇化的速度及其带来的问题，均比规划的步伐迅猛得多。
Sri Mulyani Indrawati, managing director of the World Bank, said in an interview that to follow the bank’s recommendations, China would need major changes in how cities finance new infrastructure.
世行常务副行长英卓华(Sri Mulyani Indrawati)在采访中表示，如若遵循该行的建议，中国需要在城市新基础设施的融资方式上发生重大转变。
Currently, local governments cannot levy taxes, so they rely on land expropriation instead. The Chinese leadership has good intentions to overhaul the system, but no specific plan yet, Ms. Indrawati said: “I don’t think that, at the moment in this case, there is clarity of when you are going to achieve what.”
目前，地方政府不能征税，因此转而依赖土地征收。中国领导层具备全面改革这一制度的良好意愿，但尚未提出具体方案。英卓华说：“我想，目前在这件事上，还没有何时能做到什么的清晰蓝图。”
The reports by the World Bank and World Health Organization each said the burning of noxious fuels — coal, wood and animal waste — was among the greatest threats to human health.
世行与世卫组织的报告均表示，不管是煤炭、木材，还是动物垃圾，有害燃料的焚烧是对人体健康最大的威胁之一。
In India, the health agency estimated, 700 million people rely on biomass fuels like agricultural waste for indoor cooking.
世卫组织估计，印度有7亿人口靠农业废弃物等生物质燃料来进行室内烹饪。
Kirk R. Smith of the University of California, Berkeley, measured pollutants from smoky indoor ovens, and said they were comparable to burning 400 cigarettes an hour.
加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的柯克·R·史密斯(Kirk R. Smith)测算了室内烟炉释放的污染物，结论是相当于每小时燃烧400根香烟。
“Unfortunately, we have not made a lot of progress in the past decades, and household air pollution is still the largest single health risk factor for Indian women and girls,” the health agency quoted Dr. Smith as saying.
“不幸的是，过去几十年我们没有取得多大进展，而室内空气污染仍是印度女性最大的单一健康风险因素，”世卫组织援引史密斯博士的研究写道。
In China, the bigger culprit is coal, which supplies two-thirds of the country’s energy.
在中国，更大的元凶是煤炭。在该国的能源供应中，煤炭占到三分之二。
A study published last year in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences estimated that people in northern China, where the air pollution is worst, lived an average of five fewer years than those in the south.
《美国国家科学院院刊》(Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)去年发表的一篇研究论文估计，生活在大气污染最严重的中国北方地区的人口，比南方的人均寿命短五年。
Alarmed by the worsening smog and the rising discontent among urban residents, Chinese leaders have taken note, promising to reduce reliance on coal and introduce cleaner-burning motor fuels and more energy-efficient construction methods. Prime Minister Li Keqiang declared a “war against pollution” in his annual report to the nation this month.
忧心于日益恶化的雾霾现象与城镇居民逐渐升温的不满情绪，中国领导人予以了关注，承诺减轻对煤炭的依赖，并引入更为清洁的机动车燃料及能效更高的建筑方式。李克强总理在本月做的年度政府工作报告中呼吁“向污染宣战”。
Though the winter heating season has ended, Beijing was still suffused with a familiar acrid haze on Tuesday. The United States Embassy’s air monitor rated the air as “very unhealthy,” a level at which outdoor activity should be avoided.
尽管冬天采暖季已经结束，北京本周二仍笼罩在惯常的酸性雾霾中。美国驻华大使馆的空气监测设备将当天列为“非常不健康”。这一水平意味着，应避免户外活动。
Dr. Dora of the health agency said he hoped the stark mortality figures released on Tuesday would prompt people and governments alike to confront the scourge of filthy air with greater urgency.
世卫组织的多拉博士称，他希望周二公布的死亡数据会同时促使民众与政府，以更大的紧迫感应对肮脏空气的毒害。
“What’s needed is collective action,” he said. “The air you are polluting is the same air you breathe.”
“这里需要的是携手行动，”他说，“我们污染的空气正好就是我们呼吸的空气。”