HONG KONG — China may be the world’s fastest-growing major economy, but it can also lay claim to a more dubious superlative: home of the worst-performing stock market in Asia.
香港——中国可能是世界上增长最快的主要经济体，但它也可能拥有一个不怎么好的最高称号：亚洲所有股市中表现最差的国家。
The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ended 2013 on a low note on Tuesday, closing at 2,115.98 points for a decline of 6.75 percent from a year earlier.
作为基准的上证指数周二以跌落结束了2013年，收盘报2115.98点，比一年前下降了6.75%。
The slump comes despite signs that China’s policy makers have been acting to rejuvenate the country’s languid financial markets. On Tuesday, five companies announced they had received approval to conduct public share offerings — the first batch of deals to be approved since regulators announced on Nov. 30 that they would resume share sales after a yearlong ban.
尽管有迹象表明中国政策制定者已在采取行动来振兴该国疲软的金融市场，但股市仍表现萧条。周二，五家公司宣布它们已经获得进行公开募股的批准，这是监管机构在11月30日宣布解除为期一年的募股禁令后，首批获得批准的几笔交易。
The lackluster performance of China’s domestic stock markets also comes in sharp contrast to the United States, where both the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500 have in the past year overtaken their peak levels before the financial crisis to set record highs. The Shanghai index, by contrast, is trading at slightly more than a third of its value at its 2007 peak, when it reached 6,092.06 points.
中国国内股市表现平平也与美国股市形成鲜明对比，在过去一年中道琼斯(Dow Jones)工业平均指数以及标准普尔500指数(S&P500)均超过金融危机之前的峰值，创下了新记录。相比之下，上证指数却一直徘徊在其2007年峰值的三分之一稍强的上下，上证指数2007年的峰值曾达到6092.06点。
Shanghai’s stock market came in last place among Asian markets in 2013. Its performance was slightly worse than the 6.7 percent annual decrease in the main share index in Thailand, where street protests have been disrupting the nation’s capital for weeks.
上海的股票市场在2013年的亚洲市场排名中位居最后。其表现比泰国主要股指的6.7%年度下跌幅度略差，泰国街头的抗议活动已连续几周使该国首都陷于混乱。
The only other Asian market to see a decline for the year was Indonesia, where the main index finished down 0.98 percent from a year earlier as investors grew concerned over lofty stock valuations amid signs of slowing growth.
亚洲股市中仅有的另外一个表现出年度下跌的国家是印度尼西亚，其主要股指年底收盘时比一年前下降了0.98%，因为投资者看到该国经济增长放缓的迹象，担心股票估值过高。
All other Asian indexes rose in 2013, led by Japan, where the benchmark Nikkei 225 share index rallied 56.7 percent for the year, its biggest annual gain since 1972. Shares were bolstered by a weaker yen and hopes for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s bold economic and monetary policies.
其他的亚洲股指在2013年均有所上升，以日本居首，作为标准的日经225指数(Nikkei 225 share index)在一年内上涨了56.7%，这是自1972年以来的最高年度增幅。日本股票上涨得益于疲软的日元，也受到人们对首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)大胆的经济和货币政策充满希望的影响。
China’s market slump has taken shape over a comparatively long horizon due to a number of factors.
中国股市的萧条是由于几种因素在相对较长的时间内形成的。
Domestic shares are still mostly off limits to foreign investors. China’s largely closed capital account means Chinese savers have few options for investing their money; property and stocks have been the traditional favorites.
国内市场上的股票大部分仍不对外国投资者开放。中国的资本账户在很大程度上是封闭的，这意味着中国储户在如何投资上没有多少选择；房产和股票一直是传统的热门投资选择。
But since a robust rebound in 2009, China’s stock markets have been stuck in a downward spiral, leaving many investors disheartened. The Shanghai index saw trading volumes decline for three straight years, from 2010 to 2012.
然而自从2009年出现了强劲反弹之后，中国股市一直在螺旋式下跌，这让很多投资者失望。上证指数的成交量在2010年到2012年间已连续三年下降。
Many ordinary Chinese have instead invested their money in recent years in wealth management products. These securitized debt instruments pay much higher interest rates than bank deposits but, as loosely regulated products of the country’s murky shadow banking sector, they tend to offer minimal disclosure and entail significantly greater risk.
很多普通的中国人在最近几年中将钱投资到理财产品上。这些证券化债务工具的利率比银行储蓄利息高很多，但作为该国不透明的影子银行业监管不严的产品，它们一般只公开最少的信息，具有显著的更大风险。
Still, moves by Chinese policy makers in the year since President Xi Jinping came to power have given investors cause for encouragement. A key plenum of the Communist Party leadership in November concluded with pledges that would represent China’s most significant financial overhauls in decades.
然而，自习近平上台以来中国政策制定者在一年中采取的行动让投资者有理由感觉受到鼓舞。11月召开的中国共产党十八届三中全会提出保证，要对中国金融系统进行几十年来的最重大改革。
Following that meeting, the securities regulator announced on Nov. 30 a series of new policies designed to strengthen investor protections and corporate disclosure requirements, as well as to resume share sales. China’s domestic markets have not seen an initial public offering since October 2012.
三中全会之后，证券监管机构在11月30日宣布了一系列新政策，旨在加强保护投资者，以及加强对公司信息披露的要求，还要重启新股发行。中国的国内股市自2012年10月份起暂停了首次公开募股。
Chinese I.P.O.'s appear on track to resume in early January. On Tuesday, five companies announced to the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges that they had received approval to conduct share sales. They include Guangdong Qtone Education Company, Guangdong Xinbao Electrical Appliances Holdings, Neway Valve (Suzhou) Company, Truking Technology Limited and Zhejiang Wolwo Bio-Pharmaceutical Company.
中国的首次公开募股看来将在1月初重新恢复。周二，五家公司在上海和深圳的股票交易所宣布，它们已获得募股批准。这五家公司分别是广东全通教育、广东新宝电器、苏州纽威阀门、楚天科技，以及浙江我武生物公司。
All five companies intend to list in January, the first among a backlog of about 760 firms waiting to sell shares in China.
这五家公司均拟于1月份上市，它们是等待在中国招股的积压下来的约760家公司中的第一批即将上市的公司。