YOU’VE mastered the art of modern travel savings: your airfare alerts are set up on Kayak; you flit around Europe on cheap carriers like EasyJet and Ryanair (with vacuum-packed clothing in a carry-on to avoid baggage fees). You stay in apartments rented through Airbnb when you’re not bunking with locals through CouchSurfing, bidding on Priceline or snapping up last minute rooms on HotelTonight. From the remotest corners of the earth, you stay in touch with your significant other over Gchat and your folks over Skype — when Grandma will let you off FaceTime, that is.
你已经掌握了现代旅行的省钱方法：在Kayak网站设置机票信息提醒；乘坐易捷(EasyJet)、瑞安(Ryanair)等廉价航空玩遍欧洲（为了节省行李费，把真空压缩的衣服塞入随身行李箱中）。如果你没有通过沙发客网站(CouchSurfing)寻找在当地人家里借宿的机会，也没有在Priceline网站竞价或今晚酒店(HotelTonight)网疯抢最后一分钟特价房的时候，就通过Airbnb网站租赁旅游目的地的公寓民房。即使在世界最偏远的角落，你也能通过Gchat或Skype与爱人和朋友保持联系——前提是奶奶同意你中断你和她的FaceTime视频聊天。
You could probably shave a few more cents off travel costs by downloading five new apps and bookmarking 10 new sites. But in 2013, the real savings will come to those who go retro — not by sending postcards with actual stamps (that’s what the Postagram app is for), but by stepping away from the screen, or using it differently, to find old-fashioned tactics that can save you big. Here are nine old-school tips for getting the most out of your travel buck this year.
下载几款新出的App，再将几个新网站放进收藏夹，你可能还会再省下几毛钱旅费。但2013年，真正省钱的方法是回归传统——不是寄出贴了邮票的明信片（应用程序Postagram就有这个功能），而是离开显示屏或以一种别样的方式使用显示屏，寻找可以省大钱的传统方法。以下的9个贴士可以帮你大幅度节省今年的旅行预算。
1. PICK UP THE PHONE
1. 打电话
We think we can get everything done online these days, but sometimes a simple phone call is your best bet for saving money. Speak with an innkeeper and learn of potential discounts on extended stays or information on how to get there from the airport by public transit. Contact the specific location where you’ll pick up your rental car and reserve a compact to avoid getting “upgraded” to a bigger vehicle that will increase (sometimes even double) your gas costs. Call travel agencies that strike special deals with airlines to get you prices below anything you’ll find online.
在当今社会，许多人都认为什么事都可以在网上办妥，但有时打个电话是省钱的最佳方式。与旅馆管理员在电话上聊几句，了解多住几天是否可以打折或如何从机场借助公共交通到达旅馆。租车之前，致电提车点工作人员并预订好合同，以免提车时被“升级”成油耗更高（有时油耗甚至有两倍之高）的大车。致电与航空公司有特殊协议的旅行社，也许能让你找到比所有网站都便宜的机票。
2. CHOOSE CHEAP COUNTRIES 
2. 寻找便宜的国家
Goodbye Norway, hello Bolivia. Or as Gary Arndt of the Everything Everywhere blog put it, “Cheapest dorm bed in Zurich = nice room in Bangkok.” Extrapolate that to tour guides, museum entries, food and more, and the savings start to add up. Of course, keep in mind how much it will cost you to get there in the first place. Luckily, a lot of the cheaper countries are also cheap to fly to; Matthew Kepnes, the blogger known as Nomadic Matt, put together a list of 10 “Cheap Places to Travel on the U.S. Dollar,” which includes Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Peru, Hungary and Romania. Another option: put together the 10 places you’d most like to go and price out the basics — a task most easily done by browsing guides in the travel section of your local bookstore.
再见挪威，你好玻利维亚。或者像“所有地方所有事”(Everything Everywhere blog)博主加里·阿恩特(Gary Arndt)所言，“苏黎世最便宜的床位=曼谷高档旅馆。”以此类推，导游费、博物馆门票、饭钱和其他费用加到一起，能省下一大笔钱。当然，首先要考虑到那里需要多少钱。幸运的是，到许多消费低的国家的机票也很便宜。昵称“流浪者马特(Nomadic Matt)”的博客写手马修·凯普尼斯(Matthew Kepnes)曾列过一个“让美元顿显超值的廉价旅行目的地”(Cheap Places to Travel on the U.S. Dollar)，包括哥斯达黎加、尼加拉瓜、秘鲁、匈牙利和罗马尼亚。另一种选择是：将你最想去的10个地方列出来，然后算出基本费用——只需在当地书店的旅游图书区浏览几本旅行指南，就能轻松完成这个任务。
3. SPLURGE WHEN IT MATTERS
3. 在重要事项上挥霍一把
Most travelers will never be across-the-board cheapskates. Street food, nosebleed theater seats and bunk beds are not for everyone. But you don’t have to be a purist. For each trip, decide on a themed splurge or two — transportation, food, arts, lodging — and save on the rest. You don’t need to fly business class, stay at the Four Seasons, sit in the front row on Broadway and have the 27-course tasting menu at Chez Truffle. You’ll be surprised what a thrill it is to ride a crowded public bus to a Michelin-starred restaurant, or step out of a Vienna youth hostel gussied up for the Opera Ball.
大部分旅行者都不是随时随地锱铢必较的人。街头美食、剧场偏远座位和宿舍床位并不适合每个人。其实你没必要成为彻底的省钱主义者。每趟旅行你可以设定一两个可以挥霍的主题，比如交通、食物、艺术或住宿，然后在其他方面省钱。你没必要乘坐商务舱或住在四季酒店、坐在百老汇剧院的前排或在Chez Truffle饭店享受27道菜的精选大餐。你会发现乘坐拥挤的公共汽车去米其林星级饭店或盛装走出维也纳青年旅社去往歌剧院，感觉有多么美妙。
4. PICK UP THE LOCAL PAPER 
4. 阅读当地报纸
No listings are more up-to-the-minute than Friday arts supplements, alternative weeklies or the local editions of Time Out magazine (now free in London, by the way). Get ’em on actual paper while they last. You’ll not only find the nontouristy (read: cheaper) scene laid out for you in one handy package, but often come across coupons or specials you certainly won’t find on Yelp.
任何榜单都没有当地报纸的周五艺术增刊、另类周刊或《Time Out》杂志本地版（顺便说一句，这个杂志的伦敦版现在免费了）的信息那么即时。请使用纸版，因为有形且持久。你不仅会发现大批不面对游客（也即更加便宜）的实用资讯，还能找到优惠券或特价信息——这些在Yelp点评上显然是找不到的。
5. NO MORE SIM SWAPS 
5. 不用再换SIM卡
Cellphones aren’t exactly old-school, but here’s what is: attempting the complicated dance of swapping out SIM cards as you cross borders or choosing among the confusing options for international SIM cards. In 2012, though, most big American cellular providers came out with reasonably priced international overseas data and texting plans. I once used SIM cards from around the world; my collection is now gathering (tiny amounts of) dust atop my bureau now that I’m a happy customer of AT&T’s international package. Actual phone calls are still expensive, though, so be sure you’ve got money in your Skype or Google Voice accounts to call for that restaurant reservation.
手机不能算传统，但是下面这种做法却很老套：跨越国境时频繁地更换SIM卡，或者在众多复杂的国际SIM卡中选一种。但在2012年，大多数美国电信运营商都推出了价格合理的跨国数据和短信服务。我以前去各国旅行都要更换SIM卡，那些用过的SIM卡放在抽屉里已落上了薄薄的灰尘。现在我很高兴成了AT&T跨国服务包(AT&T’s international package)的顾客。但跨国打电话仍然很贵，所以请确保你的Skype或Google Voice账户仍有话费，才能打电话到餐馆订座。
6. ADJUST YOUR MENTAL BUDGET 
6. 调整心理预算
Appalled that a romantic weekend getaway for two will cost you $1,000? Don’t worry; it won’t. For some reason, people always assume that the alternative to travel is to stay home and spend nothing. Instead, you should be subtracting what they save by not being home. Surely you would have gone out for dinner and a movie one night, at least, so knock off $100. Add in gas, groceries, electricity, etc., and you’ve got at least another $50. Your weekend now cost $850.
一趟浪漫的双人周末之旅要花1000美元，你吓坏了吗？不要担心，事实不是这样的。不知道为什么，人们总认为如果不旅行的话，大家就会待在家里，一分钱也不花。其实，你应该减掉那些因不在家而省下的钱。显然，如果你不旅行就可能去饭店吃饭或出门看电影，这至少要花掉100美元。加上汽油、日用品、电费等，至少又是50美元。所以，掐指一算你的周末之旅只花了850美元。
7. USE A GUIDEBOOK — YOUR OWN
7. 使用你自己的指南
I still carry a Moon or Lonely Planet or Frommer’s travel guide around when I travel — as backup, if nothing else. But those books are pricey, and there’s so much free information online that, with a little copying and pasting (and printing out), you can come pretty close to matching them with your own bespoke travel guide. So, in a retro twist, no Wi-Fi needed.
如果没有其他选择的话，我出门仍然会带一本Moon、Lonely Planet或Frommer’s的旅行指南，作为备用。但这些指南都很贵，而现在网上又有那么多免费的信息，只需复制和粘贴（以及打印）一下，你就能炮制一份可以与之媲美的为自己定制的旅行指南。所以用这种传统的方式旅行，你不需要Wi-Fi。
Even better, turn it into a PDF file (easily done through programs like Microsoft Word) and send it to your tablet device. I’ll admit that some additional technology can make things even easier: Stay.com helps you create a guide with maps that can be printed or retrieved on your mobile device, and TripAdvisor’s new City Guides allows you to download 60 cities’ worth of maps, information and user reviews to be used offline, free.
更好的办法是，将网络攻略转成PDF文件（通过Word等软件可以轻易实现），然后发送到你的平板电脑。我承认再加些高科技工具会让事情更简单：Stay.com可以帮你制作含有地图的指南，还可以打印出来或在移动终端读取。TripAdvisor网站最新的“城市指南”系列可让你下载60个城市的指南，内容包括地图、信息和用户点评，全部免费并可离线使用。
8. BUY DIRECT 
8. 直接购买
There was a time not so long ago when we bought airline tickets by calling airlines instead of logging onto sites like Travelocity and Expedia.
不算很久以前，我们是致电航空公司购买机票，而不是登录Travelocity或Expedia之类的网站。
Southwest long ago opted out of those online travel agencies, but other airlines are edging away from them as well. In other words, buying direct is coming back, only nowadays in online form. George Hobica, founder of Airfare Watchdog, has been seeing more and more airlines offer special fares that show up only on their own Web sites, or restrict certain features (like seat selection or discounts on checked luggage) to those who book directly through them. “It’s more important than ever for consumers to sign up for the airlines’ e-mail feeds to get promo codes and sale fares,” Mr. Hobica said.
西南航空很久以前就选择了摆脱网络旅行社，其他航空公司现在也在陆续远离它们。换句话说，直接购票的模式正在回归，只不过如今是在网上直接购买。“机票观察”(Airfare Watchdog)网的创始人乔治·霍比卡(George Hobica)发现，越来越多的航空公司开始在官网上出售别处买不到的特价机票，而且只有在它们网站直接购买的顾客才能享受某些服务（比如挑选座位或行李托运费折扣）。“现在，订阅航空公司的广告邮件以获取优惠代码和促销机票，比史上任何时候都重要。”霍比卡说。
9. STAY PUT
9. 宅旅行
No, this is not another call for the by-now clichéd “staycation,” in which you explore your wonderful home city as a tourist. (This is why we have weekends.) It’s simply a call for less frantic trips.
不，这不是当前流行到烂大街的“宅旅行(staycation)”概念的另一种说法。宅旅行指的是以游客的方式来探索自己居住的城市（这也是我们拥有周末的原因）。但我们这里主张的，只是一种不那么匆忙的旅行。
Sure, you could use discount airlines to dash between London, Paris, Barcelona, Rome and Florence during your two-week break. Instead, try staying a week in just two of the places you most want to go. You’ll reduce transportation costs, get discounts on metro passes and longer-term lodging and, best of all, find local spots you’d never come across on a rushed attempt to tick off top tourist attractions. Frequent the same restaurant and you might even get a dessert on the house once the staff starts to recognize you.
当然，利用两星期的短假，你可以用打折机票迅速飞遍伦敦、巴黎、巴塞罗纳、罗马和佛罗伦萨。但我们建议只游览你最想去的两个城市，每地各待一周。你会节省交通费用、买到打折的地铁通票，连日住宿还会有优惠。最合算的是，你会发现在走马观花、只看最热景点的快速旅行中永远看不到的当地景观。多次造访同一饭馆，工作人员跟你熟了以后甚至会免费送你一道甜点。