In a striking departure from past years, World Press Photo’s top prize for 2013 was given not for a hard-news image, but to John Stanmeyer for a photo of African migrants in Djibouti trying to capture a faint signal that provides a tenuous link to relatives in Somalia, Ethiopia and Eritrea.
世界新闻摄影大赛（World Press Photo，中文常称为“荷赛”）一反往年的常态，没有将2013年度的最高奖项授予“硬新闻”图片，而是颁发给了约翰·斯坦梅耶尔(John Stanmeyer)。在他的获奖图片中，吉布提的非洲移民在努力搜寻手机信号，试图与索马里、埃塞俄比亚、厄立特里亚的亲人维持飘摇不定的联系。
Eschewing the usual themes of war, poverty or violence, the image touches on universal themes of migration, technology and globalization, said Mr. Stanmeyer, a founding member of VII, a photo agency.
斯坦梅耶尔是VII图片社的创始成员。他说，这张照片没有探讨战争、贫困、暴力这些常见的话题，而是触及了移民、科技和全球化的普世主题。
“We migrate looking for a better life, but we always need to connect home,” Mr. Stanmeyer said in a phone conversation from his home in western Massachusetts. “I could be any one of those people trying to reach my family. I’m on the road 250 days a year.”
斯坦梅耶尔在他位于马萨诸塞州西部的家中接受电话采访时说，“我们会为了寻找更好的生活而迁徙，但总是需要与家人联系。我可能就是努力联络家人的那些人中间的一个。我一年有250天都在外面。”
The announcement of Mr. Stanmeyer’s win was overshadowed by the disclosure that 8 percent of the finalists’ images were disqualified because information had been removed after processing. An outside expert studied the raw and jpeg files and found evidence indicating that information had been removed through cloning or extreme toning, said Gary Knight, the jury chairman. He said it was obvious that the offending images were “materially and substantially changed.”
斯坦梅耶尔获奖的消息宣布的同时，还传出了一个负面的消息。入围者的图片中，有8%因为经过处理后有信息被移除而丧失了评奖资格。评审团主席加里·奈特(Gary Knight)说，一位外部专家研究了原始(raw)文件和jpeg格式的文件，发现有证据显示，在克隆和过度润色的过程中丢失了信息。他表示，很显然，违规图片“经过了内容上的实质性修改”。
“As a photographer, I reacted with real horror and considerable pain because some of the changes were materially trivial but they were ethically significant,” said Mr. Knight, who is a founding member of VII. “In every single case it was a meaningless and stupid process. None of the photographers improved their work and if they hadn’t done it they may well have been up for consideration.”
“作为一个摄影师，我的反应是强烈的反感和沉重的痛苦，因为一些修改在内容上微不足道，但在道德上却意义深重，”奈特说。“具体到每个案例，都是毫无意义而且愚蠢的处理。这些摄影师中，没有任何实际上对作品做出了改进，而且如果没有经过处理的话，他们的照片或许能够入围。”奈特也是VII图片社的创始成员。
World Press publicly announced last year that raw files would be reviewed in future contests after a controversy over the toning of the winning photo of 2012,showing two men carrying their dead nephews in Gaza City. Mr. Knight said World Press would notify the offending photographers that they were excluded.
在2012年的获奖照片显示的是在加沙城里，两名男子抬着他们死去的侄子。因为经过润色，它的获奖引发了争议。荷赛组委会于是在去年公开宣布，未来的竞赛作品都需要审阅原始文件。奈特说，组委会将通知违规的摄影师，他们被除名了。
Mr. Knight said that although he had asked to be removed from the final judging because of his friendship and professional relationship with Mr. Stanmeyer, the World Press rules did not allow for it. He emphasized that at every level there was complete transparency. “If anything,” he said, “I was a hindrance for John getting the award, not a help.” Philippe Lopez, of Agence France-Presse, won first place in spot news for a photo of a religious procession after Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines (Slide 3). Alessandro Penso received first prize in general news for a photo of an abandoned school in Bulgaria used to house 800 Syrian refugees (Slide 7). Goran Tomasevic of Reuters won first for spot news in photo stories for his photos of the Syrian war (Slide 2)and Tyler Hicks of The New York Times was awarded second place for his photographs of a terrorist attack in a Kenyan mall (Slide 8). Tanya Habjouqa was awarded second prize in the daily life category for an essay on Palestinian pleasures that was first published on Lens.
奈特表示，因为他与斯坦梅耶尔是朋友，也有工作上的关系，所以曾要求回避，不参与最终的评审，但荷赛的规则不允许这样做。他强调，每一个阶段都完全透明。“如果说有影响的话，”他说，“我也是约翰获奖的一个阻碍，而不是帮助。”法新社(Agence France-Presse)的菲利普·洛佩兹(Philippe Lopez)获得了突发新闻类一等奖，获奖作品是台风“海燕”席卷菲律宾之后的一场宗教仪式（图3）。亚历山德罗·彭索(Alessandro Penso)获得了一般新闻类一等奖，获奖作品是保加利亚一所废弃学校改建的收容所，那里容纳了800名叙利亚难民。路透社(Reuters)的格兰·托马塞维奇(Goran Tomasevic)获得了突发新闻类组照的一等奖，获奖作品是他在叙利亚战争中拍摄的一组照片。《纽约时报》的泰勒·希克斯(Tyler Hicks)因为他在肯尼亚一所购物中心遭遇恐怖袭击时拍摄的照片（图8），获得了二等奖。坦娅·哈布朱卡(Tanya Habjouqa)获得了日常生活类组照二等奖，获奖作品是反映巴勒斯坦的娱乐方式的组照，最早是在Lens上发表的。
Other winners include Andrea Bruce, second place for daily life in the singles category for The New York Times; Sara Lewkowicz, first place in contemporary issues for the stories category for Time magazine (Slide 7); and  Brent Stirton of Reportage by Getty Images, first prize in staged portraits in the singles category (below). Mr. Stanmeyer’s winning image was taken in Djibouti, a common stop-off point for migrants in transit from Somalia, Ethiopia and Eritrea, as they seek a better life in Europe and the Middle East. The picture also won first prize in the contemporary issues category, and was made on assignment for National Geographic.
其他获奖者包括安德里亚·布鲁斯(Andrea Bruce)，她为《纽约时报》赢得了日常生活类单幅二等奖；莎拉·卢科维奇(Sara Lewkowicz)，她为《时代》(Time)杂志赢得了当代热点类组照的一等奖；盖蒂图片报道(Reportage by Getty Images)的布伦特·斯特顿(Brent Stirton)赢得了表演肖像类单幅作品一等奖（下图）。斯坦梅耶尔的获奖作品拍摄于吉布提，来自索马里、埃塞俄比亚、厄立特里亚的移民在前往欧洲和中东寻找更好生活的途中，常常把这里当成中转站。这幅照片是为《国家地理》(National Geographic)拍摄的，同时赢得了当代热点类单幅照片的一等奖。
David Guttenfelder, a juror who has won seven World Press awards, including two first prizes, said he considered the image to be a news photo because it touched on important issues, like migration, that often dominate the news. He also said the jury knew that it might be controversial.
评委戴维·古登菲尔德(David Guttenfelder)曾赢得过七个荷赛奖项，包括两个一等奖。他说，他认为这幅照片属于新闻图片，因为它触及了重要的议题，也就是时常被大量报道的移民问题。他还说，评委会知道这个决定或许会产生争议。
“It might provoke debate, but will signal to photographers that they can cover events with a different visual language and they will be taken seriously,” said Mr. Guttenfelder, an Associated Press photographer.
古登菲尔德说，“可能会引发争论，但是可以向摄影师发出一种信号，他们可以用不同的视觉语言来做报道，而且也会受到认真对待。”古登菲尔德是美联社(Associated Press)的摄影记者。
Mr. Stanmeyer said his own mother had a “tenuous” journey to the United States from Austria after World War II.
斯坦梅耶尔说，自己的母亲在二战后从奥地利来到美国，途中也走过了一段“飘摇不定”的旅程。
“It could be any one of us trying to talk with our families far away,” he said. “But I am particularly happy to be receiving this award while at my home in the Berkshires with my wife and three children, who are home because of a snow day.”
“我们任何一个人都可能需要与远方的家人联系，”他说。“但是，尤其让我高兴的是，得悉获奖时我正在伯克夏的家中，因为那天下雪了，我的妻子和三个孩子也都在身边。”
Updated: In an email exchange, Michiel Munneke, managing director of World Press Photo, provided more details on the disqualification of finalists in this year’s contest: 
更新：通过电子邮件交流，世界新闻摄影大赛执行总监米歇尔·穆内克(Michiel Munneke)就今年的竞赛中入围者被取消决选资格的事件提供了更多的细节：
After reviewing the expert’s report and debating the issues, the jury decided that 10 entries were not eligible to proceed in the pre-final round. That is 8% of the entries at that stage in the competition. It is important to add that the jury, in applying the contest rules, affirmed the content of an image must not be altered. The jury based their decision on the outcome (whether significant material had been added or removed) irrespective of the technique (cloning or toning) used. They applied accepted standards in the industry, which for example, allow for the cleaning of dust and scratches. The judgement was applied in the same way to each entry in each category.
“在查阅了专家的报告，并对问题进行讨论之后，评委会决定，10个参赛作品没有资格进入预决赛阶段。这些参赛作品是跻身该阶段的作品总数的8%。需要补充的是，评委会在应用竞赛规则时申明，不得修改图片内容的规则。评委会做出决定的依据是结果（是否添加或删除了重要内容），而非技术手段（克隆或润色）。评委采用了行业通行的标准，比如允许清理尘点和划痕。每个竞赛类别的入围作品都适用了同样的判断标准。”