Here are my 12 favorite television shows of 2013 — the ones you won’t find piling up on my DVR, because I have to watch each new episode as soon as it appears. (Which means, of course, by the end of the next day.) Are they the 12 best shows of the year? Who knows. I didn’t come close to watching everything on TV, and neither did anyone else. All I know is that 10 wouldn’t have been enough.
下面是我2013年最喜欢的12部电视剧。它们不是堆积在我的DVR里，因为新一集一播出，我就必须马上看（当然我的意思是在第二天结束之前看完）。它们是不是本年度最好的12部电视剧？天知道。我又不是每天盯着电视什么都看，也没有其他人会这么做。我只知道只选10部是不够的。
The list has a provisional feel to me, because two of my top three shows from the previous year — the BBC and PBS’s ‘Sherlock’ and FX’s ‘Louie’ — were absent in 2013; each will have been off the air for more than a year and a half when it returns in 2014. They’ve been two of the smartest shows on TV in recent seasons, and there’s no reason to think that will change.
对我来说，这个名单只是暂定的，因为去年我最喜欢的三部电视剧中，有两部在2013年没有播放续集——BBC和PBS联合制作的《神探夏洛克》(Sherlock)以及FX频道的《路易不容易》(Louie)。到2014年这两部电视剧回归的时候，它们停播都已经超过一年半了。它们是过去几个电视季中最精良的其中两部电视剧，我没理由认为这会改变。
It’s often said that we’re living through a golden age in American television, but not a lot is said about how much this perception is driven by the greatly increased availability of foreign shows, on TV and online. Three of my top 10 shows are from abroad (‘Prisoners of War,’ ‘The Hollow Crown’ and ‘Moone Boy’), and in my extended listing, nine of 36 shows — 25 percent — were made in other countries (sometimes with American financing).
人们常说，我们生活在美国电视的黄金时代，但是人们很少谈论这在多大程度上是因为我们能在电视和网上看到更多外国电视剧。我的十佳电视剧中有三部来自国外（《战俘》[Prisoners of War]，《空王冠》[The Hollow Crown]和《男孩穆恩》[Moone Boy]），在我加长名单的36部电视剧中，有九部是在其他国家制作的（有时得到了美国资助），占25%。
1. ‘The Good Wife’ (CBS) The opening episodes of the current, fifth season of Robert and Michelle King’s legal drama were about as good as episodic TV gets, a fast-moving story of ambition, betrayal and gamesmanship that could knot your guts like a Formula 1 car taking a dangerous corner. After a poky 2011-12 season, the show’s restored verve seems to have energized its excellent cast.
1. 《傲骨贤妻》（The Good Wife，CBS频道）：罗伯特和米歇尔·金(Robert and Michelle King)的这部法律剧第五季的开头几集很像系列剧。这个关于野心、背叛和手腕的故事快速发展，像一级方程式赛车转过危险弯道时那样让你的心提到嗓子眼。经过沉闷的2011-12季之后，这部电视剧重新焕发的活力似乎也给优秀的演员们充上了电。
2. ‘Prisoners of War’ (Hulu) This Israeli series, on which “Homeland” is (extremely loosely) based, continued in its second season to be a quiet, intelligent, moving and profoundly sad examination of the wages of permanent conflict.
2.《战俘》（Prisoners of War, Hulu网）:《国土安全》(Homeland)就是根据这部以色列电视剧（极度松散地）改编的。它的第二季仍旧平静、聪明、感人而十分哀伤地审视永久的冲突。
3. ‘Frontline’ (PBS) It’s not that hard to be the best investigative current-affairs documentary series on American television when no one else is even trying. But given the lack of competition, it’s even more impressive that “Frontline” is as consistently good as it is. Reports that stood out in 2013 included the harrowing “Syria Behind the Lines” and “League of Denial,” about the National Football League’s handling of concussions.
3. 《前线》（Frontline，PBS频道）：想成为美国电视上最好的调查性时事纪录片并不难，因为没有其他人在做同样的尝试。但是尽管没有竞争对手，《前线》能始终这么优秀更是让人印象深刻。2013年格外显眼的报道包括令人痛心的《防锁线背后的叙利亚》(Syria Behind the Lines)以及关于美国橄榄球联盟处理脑震荡事件的《否认联盟》(League of Denial)。
4. ‘The Hollow Crown’ (PBS) This BBC production offered an opportunity to see Shakespeare’s linked history plays “Richard II,” “Henry IV” Parts 1 and 2 and “Henry V” consecutively, in filmed adaptations helmed by major British stage directors, with wonderful performances, the kind theatergoers would fly around the world to see: Ben Whishaw as Richard II, Jeremy Irons as Henry IV, Simon Russell Beale as Falstaff.
4.《空王冠》（The Hollow Crown，PBS频道）：BBC出品的这个系列剧集让我们有机会连续观看莎士比亚相互关联的几部历史剧——《理查德二世》(Richard II)，《亨利四世》(Henry IV)第一部和第二部，以及《亨利五世》(Henry V)。这些剧集把舞台剧改编为电视电影，由英国的几位重要戏剧导演掌舵，其中的精彩表演是戏剧迷们愿意飞越重洋去观赏的：本·惠肖(Ben Whishaw)扮演理查德二世，杰里米·艾恩斯(Jeremy Irons)扮演亨利四世，西蒙·拉塞尔·比尔(Simon Russell Beale)扮演福斯塔夫(Falstaff)。
5. ‘The Newsroom’ (HBO) In the second season of Aaron Sorkin’s cable-news drama, TV’s best and most frustrating romance — between the anchor Will and his producer MacKenzie, beautifully played by Jeff Daniels and Emily Mortimer — got better and (up to a point) even more frustrating.
5. 《新闻编辑室》（The Newsroom，HBO频道）：在艾伦·索金(Aaron Sorkin)的这部关于有线电视新闻的电视剧的第二季中，电视上最美好也最令人沮丧的恋情——也就是由杰夫·丹尼尔斯(Jeff Daniels)扮演的主播威尔(Will)和由埃米莉·莫蒂默(Emily Mortimer)扮演的制作人麦肯锡(MacKenzie)之间的恋情——变得更美好，（在一定程度上）也更令人沮丧。
6. ‘Grimm’ (NBC) Among the plethora of supernatural series on TV at the moment, this show about vaguely Germanic fairy-tale creatures infesting Portland, Ore., is the most sheerly entertaining.
6.《格林》（Grimm，NBC频道）：在当前电视上太多关于超自然的电视剧中，这部关于德国童话生物骚扰俄勒冈州波特兰市的电视剧是最有趣的。
7. ‘Moone Boy’ (Hulu) Chris O’Dowd of “Bridesmaids” created this charming comedy about a 12-year-old Irish boy and his not-very-helpful imaginary friend for the British network Sky. Mr. O’Dowd plays the friend, but the real star is the young actor David Rawle, who plays the irrepressible title character, Martin Moone.
7.《男孩穆恩》（Moone Boy，Hulu）：曾出演《伴娘》(Bridesmaids)的克里斯·奥多德(Chris O’Dowd)为英国Sky电视台创作了这部迷人的喜剧，讲述的是12岁的爱尔兰男孩以及他那位不是很有帮助的想象中的朋友。奥多德扮演那个朋友，但是这部戏里真正的明星是年轻演员大卫·罗尔(David Rawle)，他扮演难以驯服的主角马丁·穆恩(Martin Moone)。
8. ‘The Americans; (FX) The first season of this cold-war spy story was tense and engaging, with a nasty edge and a performance by Keri Russell as a Soviet agent undercover in 1980s Washington that was a minor revelation.
8. 《美国谍梦》（The Americans，FX频道）：这个冷战间谍故事的第一季紧张而迷人。凯里·拉塞尔(Keri Russell)在剧中扮演20世纪80年代潜伏在华盛顿的苏联卧底（这是个小小的剧透），具有阴险的性格。
9. ‘Southland’ (TNT) Never able to attract an audience, Ann Biderman and John Wells’s gritty, convincing Los Angeles cop show faded away after five seasons, ending with what felt like a silent rebuke to the TV gods: the apparent suicidal death of a despairing main character.
9.《南城警事》（Southland，TNT频道）：安·比德曼(Ann Biderman)和约翰·韦尔斯(John Wells)创作的这部逼真、可信的洛杉矶警匪剧从未能够吸引住观众，在五季之后悄悄落幕。它的结局像是对电视诸神的沉默的谴责：绝望的主人公显然是自杀而死。
10. ‘The Walking Dead’ (AMC) The acting can be spotty, the writing can lapse into solemn melodrama and the story tends to shuffle around in circles, but in its fourth season this zombie drama still has a pure, visceral intensity unmatched in prime time.
10.《行尸走肉》（The Walking Dead，AMC频道）：该剧演员的表演水平可能不够稳定，剧本可能接近严肃的情节剧，故事可能在原地打转，但是这部僵尸剧的第四季仍在黄金时段让观众感到纯粹的、无与伦比的、发自内心的紧张。
11. ‘Bunheads’ (ABC Family) Amy Sherman-Palladino’s serious comedy about a dedicated dancer (Sutton Foster) who finds herself stuck in a small town teaching classes to young ballet hopefuls was canceled after one low-rated season.
11.《心舞》（Bunheads，ABC家庭频道）：埃米·谢尔曼-帕拉迪诺(Amy Sherman-Palladino)的这部严肃的喜剧未受到好评，仅播出一季就结束了。它讲述的是一个有献身精神的舞者（萨顿·弗斯特[Sutton Foster]饰）被困在一个小镇上教授有前途的年轻芭蕾舞者的故事。
12. ‘Breaking Bad’ (AMC) Some aspects of AMC’s recently concluded modern noir didn’t merit the inordinate praise it attracted. One thing that fully deserved the plaudits, however, was Bryan Cranston’s watchful, perfectly measured performance as Walter White, the high school teacher turned drug kingpin.
12.《绝命毒师》（Breaking Bad，AMC频道）：AMC频道这部现代黑色剧集最近收场了，它在某些方面不配拥有它获得的过度赞扬。但是，其中完全值得喝彩的是布莱恩·克兰斯顿(Bryan Cranston)谨慎、精准的表演。他在剧中扮演的沃尔特·怀特(Walter White)从一名高中教师变成了大毒枭。
Honorable mention, in alphabetical order: ‘Bates Motel’ on A & E, ‘The Big Bang Theory’ on CBS, ‘Boardwalk Empire’ on HBO, ‘Elementary’ on CBS, ‘The Fosters’ on ABC Family, ‘Foyle’s War’ on PBS, ‘Legit’ on FX, ‘Out There’ on IFC, ‘Real Husbands of Hollywood’ on BET, ‘The Returned’ on Sundance, ‘The Simpsons’ on Fox, ‘Veep’ on HBO.
其他优秀电视剧有（按字母排序）：《贝茨旅馆》(Bates Motel)，A & E频道；《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)，CBS频道；《大西洋帝国》(Boardwalk Empire)，HBO频道；《基本演绎法》(Elementary)，CBS频道；《如此一家人》(The Fosters)，ABC家庭频道；《战地神探》(Foyle’s War)，PBS频道；《做个好人》(Legit)，FX频道；《就在那里》(Out There)，IFC频道；《好莱坞好丈夫》(Real Husbands of Hollywood)，BET频道；《回归》(The Returned)，Sundance频道；《辛普森一家》(The Simpsons)，Fox频道；《副总统》(Veep)，HBO频道。
And 12 more, because there’s an awful lot of decent TV: ‘Archer’ on FX, ‘Being Human’ on BBC America, ‘Broadchurch’ on BBC America, ‘Dexter’ on Showtime, ‘Getting On’ on HBO, ‘Inspector Lewis’ on PBS, ‘Justified’ on FX, ‘The Middle’ on ABC, ‘Orange Is the New Black’ on Netflix, ‘Person of Interest’ on CBS, ‘Treme’ on HBO, ‘A Young Doctor’s Notebook’ on Ovation.
我再提12部不错的电视剧，因为好看的电视剧太多了：《阿切尔》(Archer)，FX频道；《我欲为人》(Being Human)，BBC频道美国版；《小镇疑云》(Broadchurch)，BBC频道美国版；《嗜血法医》(Dexter)，映时频道；《继续下去》(Getting On)，HBO频道；《督察员刘易斯》(Inspector Lewis)，PBS频道；《火线警探》(Justified)，FX频道；《中产家庭》(The Middle)，ABC频道；《女子监狱》(Orange Is the New Black)，Netflix频道；《疑犯追踪》(Person of Interest)，CBS频道；《劫后余生》(Treme)，HBO频道；《年轻医师的笔记》(A Young Doctor’s Notebook)，Ovation频道。
Finally, a few bandwagons I couldn’t get on: ‘Girls,’ ‘Orphan Black,’ ‘Mad Men.’
最后说几个我欣赏不了的流行剧集：《都市女孩》(Girls)；《黑色孤儿》(Orphan Black)；《广告狂人》(Mad Men)。