1. Lorde “Pure Heroine” (Universal) In hip-hop, keyboard-centered processionals often accompany self-congratulatory boasts. “Pure Heroine,” the debut album by Lorde — the songwriter and singer Ella Yelich-O’Connor, from New Zealand — commandeers those wide-open spaces with her lustrous voice and angel-choir harmonies carrying serious thoughts. Lorde writes about suburban provincialism, peer pressure, insecurity, determination and — in the irresistible “Royals” — about pop-culture fantasies and class-conscious realities. She’s 17.
1. 洛德(Lorde)，《纯粹女英雄》(Pure Heroine)，环球(Universal)。这些以键盘为核心的嘻哈游行圣歌往往伴随着洋洋得意的自夸。《纯粹女英雄》是洛德的处女专辑，这位来自新西兰的歌手兼词曲作者原名艾拉·耶里克-奥康纳(Ella Yelich-O’Connor)，用她光芒四射的嗓音与天使唱诗班式的和声承载严肃的思想，填补了巨大的市场空白。洛德的歌曲是关于城市郊区的褊狭、同龄人带来的压力、不安全感和决心，特别是在那首令人难以抗拒的《贵族》(Royals)中唱出了流行文化幻想与阶级意识真相。她现年17岁。
2. Laura Marling “Once I Was an Eagle” (Ribbon Music) A seven-song suite that accelerates from folky contemplation to fierce East-meets-West strumming is the sweeping start to Laura Marling‘s fourth album. The songs could be the chronicle of a breakup, but they lead her through legend and family memory, lament and accusation and hymn. Her nimble guitars and her serenely knowing voice make every conundrum intimate.
2. 劳拉·马林(Laura Marling)，《我曾是雄鹰》(Once I Was an Eagle)，Ribbon Music。这是劳拉·马林的第四张专辑，一开头便是由七首歌构成的组曲，从民谣的沉思逐渐加速，成为东西部风格结合的凶猛弹拨。这些歌可能是对分手的记载，但它们带领她穿过了传奇与家族的记忆、哀歌、责备与赞美诗。她那敏捷的吉他与安详而世故的嗓音让歌中的谜语变得可亲。
3. Vampire Weekend “Modern Vampires of the City” (XL) Gravity and cleverness seesaw all the way through Vampire Weekend‘s third album. The characters in the songs now face grown-up responsibilities and questions of faith. Meanwhile, the tunes are full of manic invention and nutty juxtapositions: Baroque pomp and trash-can drum sounds, rockabilly twang and digitally chopped-up vocals. Overthinking pays off.
3. “吸血鬼周末”(Vampire Weekend)，《城市现代吸血鬼》(Modern Vampires of the City)，XL。这是“吸血鬼周末”的第三张专辑，庄严和聪敏在其中不断交替。歌中的人物如今要面对长大成人的责任与信仰问题。与此同时，歌中充满狂躁的创意曲与怪异的交叉重叠：巴洛克式的华丽与敲打垃圾桶般的鼓声，山区乡村摇滚的拨弦与数码制作的破碎声音。他们的深思熟虑换来了成功。
4. Nine Inch Nails “Hesitation Marks” (Null/Columbia) Restarting Nine Inch Nails for the first time since 2009, Trent Reznor didn’t return to blasting and shouting. Instead of guitars, pointillistic keyboards build the tension in many of the songs. The music makes every sparse syncopation matter, and it pulls inward instead of lashing out — just right for songs that are more a battle with himself than with the world.
4. “九寸钉”(Nine Inch Nails)，《迟疑的迹象》(Hesitation Marks)，Null/哥伦比亚(Columbia)。重组的“九寸钉”自2009年以来首次发行专辑，特伦特·雷诺(Trent Reznor)并未回到尖锐的高音与喊叫，而是在大多数歌曲中采用吉他和细密的键盘营造紧张气氛。音乐令每个偶尔一用的切分节奏格外突出，它是内敛而不是向外爆发的——因为专辑中的歌曲更多是他与自己的战争，而不是与外部世界的斗争。
5. M.I.A. “Matangi” (Interscope) M.I.A. brags a lot on “Matangi,” her full first name. And she earns it, not entirely for her lyrics — though she delivers some sociopolitical zingers in her defiant singsong — but for the dizzying cross-cultural barrage that surrounds them, mashing up geography and technologies. Her sounds are shinier than ever, her refrains are purposefully catchy and her attitude is newly cheerful, which just lets her pack more jolts into each song.
5. M.I.A，《马坦吉》(Matangi)，Interscope。《马坦吉》这个名字来自M.I.A的原名，她在专辑中夸下不少海口，这不仅是通过歌词实现的——尽管她那充满挑衅的平板歌唱中有若干涉及社会政治话题的隽语，但围绕这些隽语的那密集而令人晕眩的跨文化批评完全超越了地域与技术，它们才更加醒目。她的声音比以往更有光彩，副歌部分刻意做得格外上口，她的态度变得欢乐，令拥趸们更加迷恋她的每一首歌。
6. Janelle Monáe “The Electric Lady” (Wondaland Arts Society/Bad Boy) This installation of Janelle Monáe‘s continuing sci-fi epic — about a fugitive android, power, discrimination and rebellion — is actually a romantic prequel. That’s her opportunity to write love songs and invoke strong female role models — her mother included — as she continues to traverse pop history from hip-hop back to big bands, lingering at R&B and soul. Multiple agendas don’t hold back her exuberance.
6. 简妮尔·蒙纳伊(Janelle Monáe)，《电子女士》(The Electric Lady)，Wondaland Arts Society/Bad Boy。这是简妮尔·蒙纳伊延续的科幻史诗，唱了逃亡的机器人、权力、歧视和反抗，但它其实是一部浪漫的前传。她在其中有机会写爱情歌曲，召唤出强大的女性角色范式（她的母亲也在其中），同时又继续穿越整个流行音乐史，从嘻哈乐回归到大乐队风格，在R&B与灵魂乐之间徘徊。多重主题并没有影响她的丰富性。
7. David Bowie “The Next Day” (Columbia) After nearly a decade, David Bowie re-emerged bleak and brittle with “The Next Day,” an album that confronts mortality with bitter fury. The music looks back to his 1970s Berlin albums, with brusque drums and bristling guitars; as he sees time ravage youth, idealism, love and hope, the lush moments are disconsolate and the glimmers of pop are sardonic. “Just remember, duckies,” he sings. “Everybody gets got.”
7. 大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)，《翌日》(The Next Day)，哥伦比亚。将近十年之后，大卫·鲍伊带着《翌日》阴郁而冷漠地重新浮现，专辑带着痛苦的愤怒，直面必死的命运。音乐可以追溯到20世纪70年代他在柏林制作的那些专辑，有着粗鲁的鼓声和活跃的吉他；他回顾着残酷的青春、理想主义，爱与希望，这些丰富的时刻都显得惆怅，流行音乐的闪光时刻则显得颇具讽刺意味。“要记住，快乐的家伙们，”他唱道，“所有人都逃不掉。”
8. Tal National “Kaani” (FatCat) The repeating patterns of funk stay unpredictable in the frenetic grooves of Tal National, a band from Niger. The music keeps leaping ahead with one surprise after another: guitar parts that align and diverge and reconfigure, drumming that pounces on offbeats. The patterns are crisp, complex and tireless, but Tal National is no funk machine: It’s alive.
8. “塔尔族”(Tal National)，《卡尼》(Kaani)，FatCat。“塔尔族”是一支来自尼日尔的乐队，狂乱的律动中有着不断重复的放克模式，却无法预测走向。音乐不断跳跃向前，一个惊奇跟着另一个惊奇：吉他时而整齐，时而分散，时而重新组合起来，鼓在后拍重击。他们的模式新奇、复杂而又不知疲倦。但他们不是一架放克机器，而是活生生的乐队。
9. Laura Mvula “Sing to the Moon” (Columbia) Laura Mvula, an English singer and songwriter, arrives like an emissary from an alternate pop timeline, where Nina Simone, Gil Evans, the Swingle Singers and epic film scores loom larger than anything plugged in. Her voice is deliberately modest, and her songs take eccentric shapes; as she ponders her place in the world, orchestras and choirs materialize around her, rising toward a purely sonic redemption.
9. 劳拉·马优拉(Laura Mvula)，《对月亮歌唱》(Sing to the Moon)，哥伦比亚。劳拉·马优拉是一位英国歌手兼词曲作者，就像来自另一个流行音乐平行世界的使节，在那个世界里，妮娜·西蒙尼(Nina Simone)、吉尔·伊文思(Gil Evans)、“斯温格尔歌手”(Swingle Singers)和史诗电影配乐比任何插电的东西都重要。她的声音从容谦逊，歌曲有着怪异的形式；她思索着自己在世界上的位置，管弦乐队与合唱真切地环绕着她，渐渐升起，迎向声音的救赎。
10. The Haxan Cloak “Excavation” (Tri Angle) Bobby Krlic, who records as the Haxan Cloak, plunges deep for the sounds of the ambient, austerely suspenseful “Excavation.” There are throbs aimed for subwoofers, depth-charge descents, crackles of static and kick-in-the-head impacts. A beat or a pulse might appear and vanish. The tracks are amorphous and unmelodic, but too eventful and sometimes too brutal to recede into the background. This could be the sound of looking into the abyss and having the abyss look back.
“哈克森·克洛克”(The Haxan Cloak)，《发掘》(Excavation)，Tri Angle。鲍比·克里克(Bobby Krlic)以“哈克森·克洛克”这个名字出唱片，在这张质朴而令人紧张的氛围音乐《发掘》中，他深深沉浸其中，寻找音效。专辑里有为超低音音箱设计的搏动，深水炸弹般的下潜，静电的劈啪声和冲击大脑的效果。节奏和脉冲时隐时现。音乐模糊而不成旋律，但充满变数，有时十分直接，无法当做背景音乐而忽略；不禁使人想起“当你凝视深渊时，深渊也凝视着你”这句话。
TOP SONGS
最佳单曲：
Kanye West featuring Frank Ocean “New Slaves” (Roc-a-Fella/Def Jam)
坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)，弗兰克·奥申(Frank Ocean)客串，《新奴隶》(New Slave)，Roc-a-Fella/Def Jam。
Kacey Musgraves “Follow Your Arrow” (Mercury)
凯西·马斯格雷福斯(Kacey Musgraves)，《跟随你的箭》(Follow Your Arrow)，水星(Mercury)。
Atoms for Peace “Before Your Very Eyes” (XL)
“原子和平”(Atoms for Peace)，《在你眼前》(Before Your Very Eyes)，XL。
Danny Brown “Lonely” (Fool’s Gold)
丹尼·布朗“孤独”(Danny Brown)，《孤独》(Lonely)，Fool’s Gold。
Kelela “Enemy” (Fade to Mind)
吉莉拉(Kelela)，《敌人》，Fade to Mind。
Yeah Yeah Yeahs “Despair” (Interscope)
“耶耶耶”(Yeah Yeah Yeahs)，《绝望》(Despair)，Interscope。
The Knife “A Tooth for an Eye” (Rabid)
“刀”(The Knife)，《以牙还眼》(A Tooth for an Eye)，Rabid。
The Blow “A Kiss” (Kanine)
“打击”(The Blow)，《一个吻》(A Kiss)，Kanine。
Phosphorescent “Song for Zula” (Dead Oceans)
“磷光”(Phosphorescent)，《祖拉之歌》(Song for Zula)，Dead Oceans.
Robin Thicke featuring T.I. and Pharrell “Blurred Lines” (Star Trak)
罗宾·西克(Robin Thicke)，T.I.与菲瑞(Pharrell)客串，《含糊的话》(Blurred Lines)，Star Trak。