As I argue in this year’s Movies Issue, sometimes the theater experience is irreplaceable. These five movies are proof.
就像我今年在《纽约时报杂志》电影特刊中说的那样，有时在电影院的观影体验是无法替代的。下面五部电影就是例证。
1. Gravity: Alfonso Cuarón’s astronauts-in-peril action opera needs to be seen big, and in 3-D, so you can feel the disorienting vastness of space, the rush of danger as things fly through the air and the eerie calm of looking at the earth from orbit.
1.《地心引力》(Gravity)：阿方索·卡隆(Alfonso Cuarón)这部讲述陷入险境的宇航员的动作影片需要你戴上3-D眼镜在大屏幕上观看，这样你才能感受到宇宙让人失去方向感的浩瀚，感受到物体在空气中疾驰而来的危急，以及从太空看地球时那种诡异的宁静。
2. 12 Years a Slave: Steve McQueen’s depiction of mid-19th-century American slavery is horrifying, heartbreaking and enraging, and you don’t want to endure these emotions alone. Not because misery loves company, but because this is a communal story, reflecting a shared history that we need to contemplate together.
2.《为奴十二年》(12 Years a Slave)：史蒂夫·麦昆(Steve McQueen)对19世纪中期美国奴隶制的描绘让人惊骇、心碎、愤怒。你肯定不想独自经受这些情绪。不是因为痛苦需要人陪伴，而是因为这是我们共同的故事，反映的是一段需要我们一起思考的历史。
3. At Berkeley: Frederick Wiseman’s four-hour documentary about life at the University of California’s flagship campus is a complex portrait of an institution in crisis. It can teach you more than just about any other film about the state of American life today, but you must give it your full, hypnotized attention.
3.《在伯克利》(At Berkeley)：弗雷德里克·怀斯曼(Frederick Wiseman)的这部四小时长的纪录片讲述的是加利福尼亚大学旗舰校的生活，复杂地描绘了这个处于危机中的学院。它能告诉你的关于当今美国生活状态的东西几乎超过其他任何电影，但是你必须全神贯注地去看。
4. Computer Chess: This one is counterintuitive — but you appreciate the lo-res analog format of Andrew Bujalski’s tale of early-’80s competitive geekery only if you observe it in the most antithetical conditions. Flat, blurry and black and white, it doesn’t look anything like a movie, and you get that only when you watch it as if it were one.
4.《电脑棋局》(Computer Chess)：这部电影可能不在你的预料之中。安德鲁·布西内斯克(Andrew Bujalski)的这部电影讲述的是80年代初喜欢竞争的极客。只有在极端对立的环境中，你才能欣赏这部低分辨率的模拟格式的影片。没有立体感，模糊，只有黑白两个颜色——它看起来完全不像电影。只有把它当成一部电影来看时，你才能理解它。
5. Spring Breakers: You might feel more comfortable seeing Harmony Korine’s allegory of late-capitalist spirituality — and its young, barely dressed stars — in your own home. But the walk of shame after seeing it, especially if you are a male over 40, is a necessary (and perhaps redemptive) part of the experience. 
5.《春假》(Spring Breakers)：哈莫尼·科里奈(Harmony Korine)的这部寓言电影讲述的是新资本主义精神。你可能觉得在自己家里看这部电影以及其中着装暴露的年轻明星会更舒服些。但是，看完之后的羞愧感是观影体验不可或缺的（同时也是获得救赎的）组成部分，尤其是对40岁以上的男性来说。