“Scenes of Provincial Life” would be an apt title for an account of the 2013 New York art world, a white-bread band going about its practiced rounds. Galleries pushed painting: schooled, skilled, dull. Marquee items that went on view in museums only mildly thrilled or chilled.
“外省生活景观”(Scenes of Provincial Life)这个题目很适合用来描述2013年的纽约艺术世界，典型白人中产阶级品位迎来了实质性回潮。画廊推出的作品都是专业的、技巧娴熟的、沉闷的。走进博物馆的那些户外作品也只是令人觉得稍微有点兴奋刺激。
The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s peak moment was a decorating job: reinstalled European painting galleries that had a slow-burning splendor. MoMA clung to West-is-best in an abstraction survey that didn’t budge beyond Euro-America — North America, that is. The Guggenheim’s rotunda, with back-to-back James Turrell and Christopher Wool solos, has felt more or less empty since June.
大都会艺术博物馆的高潮时刻是它的内部装修：画廊被重新装修为欧洲画廊的样子，有一种缓慢燃烧般的华丽。MoMA有过一个抽象艺术的展览，仍然坚持西方艺术才是最好的这个观点，其展出的作品没有脱离欧美范畴，准确地说都来自北美的艺术家。古根海姆的圆形大厅虽然自6月以来持续迎来詹姆斯·特里尔(James Turrell)和克里斯托弗·伍尔(Christopher Wool)的个展，但多少显得没什么东西。
Like all insular communities, the art world is a consensus culture. Week after week, the same people say the same things about the same shows. All surprises are in reality predictable. In 2013 the auction houses did what they are programmed to do: get ever more cash for ever-crummier art. (Francis Bacon paints Lucian Freud. There’s a dreary duo.) And the rest of us played our scripted part — gasping, cheering, jeering — to keep business strong.
艺术世界如同一个与世隔绝的社区，形成一种保持舆论一致的文化。周复一周，同样的人就同样的展览说些同样的话。所有的“惊喜”其实都可以预测。2012年，拍卖行也做了他们该做的事：把更烂的艺术品用更贵的价钱卖出去——比如弗朗西斯·培根(Francis Bacon)画的卢西安·弗洛伊德(Lucian Freud)画像，真是无聊的二人组。至于说我们这些负责书写台词的人呢？——我们屏息、欢呼、嘲讽——好让这个行业保持强势。
Still, there were memorable breaks in the flow of events. A dozen follow.
不过，这一串事件中，还是有些值得记忆的时刻，列举如下。
‘Paul McCarthy, WS’ Installed in the drill hall of the Park Avenue Armory, this ambitious Dante-esque gross-out consisted of seven hours of film surrounding a full-size sculptural ranch house and a sequoia forest. Blood, excrement, alcohol and M & Ms flew through the air as Mr. McCarthy took down targets ranging from Walt Disney (“WS” stands for Snow White backward), himself (the ranch house was a replica of his childhood home) and America’s lust for bigness and waste. Some Armory visitors fled from the scene. Others, like me, stayed around.
“保罗·麦卡特尼，WS”(Paul McCarthy, WS)。该展览在公园大道军械库演习厅举行，这个雄心勃勃的但丁式下三路惊人之作包括七个小时的电影，中间是一栋真实比例农舍和红杉林。鲜血、粪便、酒精和M & Ms巧克力豆满天横飞，麦卡特尼影射的对象包括沃尔特·迪斯尼（Walt Disney，“WS”是“白雪公主”的缩写倒过来），他自己（那栋农舍是模仿他小时候的家），以及美国对宏大和浪费的欲望。有些来军械库参观的人匆匆溜走了，包括我在内的其他人则流连不去。
Ninth Shanghai Biennale This show, which opened in October 2012 and ran well into 2013, was big, set in a former power plant. When it was over, the building was turned into a permanent museum of contemporary art, joining several new private museums in town. Still more have popped up since. In China these days, art equals power in ways we barely grasp. To watch that power accumulated before your eyes and museumized overnight is like seeing the New York art world reflected, at fast-forward speed, in a fun-house mirror.
第九届上海双年展。这次盛大的展览于2012年10月举行，一直持续到2013年，会址是由旧发电站改造的。展览结束后，这栋建筑将成为永久性的当代艺术馆，同时这座城市还新开了几家私人艺术馆。将来还会涌现更多。近来在中国，艺术以我们很难理解的方式等同于权力。看着这种权力在你面前不断壮大，一夜之间就进入博物馆，感觉就像看见了纽约艺术界的映像——以快进的速度，从一面哈哈镜里映照出来。
‘Medieval Treasures from Hildesheim’ Small, but this exhibition (through Jan. 5) automatically makes the Met one of the most potent spiritual-power spots in the city. The objects — religious sculptures, liturgical vessels, a bronze baptismal font — are, aesthetically, among the great surviving treasures of Northern European Christendom. More than that, they are soaked in the sanctity of centuries of devotional use. You can feel their heat from here.
“来自希尔德斯海姆的中世纪瑰宝”(Medieval Treasures from Hildesheim)这个展览很小（只持续到明年1月5日），但它顿时令大都会博物馆成为整个城市最富于精神力量的地方之一。展品包括圣像、礼拜用品、一座青铜圣洗池等，它们在美学上属于北欧基督世界伟大的幸存珍宝。不仅如此，几个世纪在仪式上的使用令它们笼罩了一层圣洁的光辉，你可以亲身感受到它们的温暖。
‘Steve McQueen’ One of the year’s strongest museum solo shows, although it made it just by a squeak, closing in early January at the Art Institute of Chicago before heading to Europe. (That it didn’t stop in New York seems nuts.) A retrospective for a brilliant British artist at midcareer (and the director of “12 Years a Slave”), the work is visually rich and politically goading. And if you ever wondered how films could be turned into objects for gallery display, here’s your answer.
“史蒂夫·麦昆”(Steve McQueen)，今年最为强劲的艺术馆个展，尽管它只在芝加哥艺术协会短暂展出，一月初就要移师欧洲（不在纽约展出很奇怪）。这是这位正处在事业中期的优秀英国艺术家的回顾展。此外他也是《为奴12年》(12 Years a Slave)的导演。该展视觉效果丰富，富于政治挑衅。如果你想知道电影怎样成为艺术馆的展品，就到这个展览上寻找答案吧。
‘Dancing Around the Bride: Cage, Cunningham, Johns, Rauschenberg and Duchamp’ This exhibition at the Philadelphia Museum of Art offered a curatorial object lesson of another kind: how to bring art, music and dance together, just as the figures listed in the title did more than half a century ago. The mix worked. Enchantment.
“围绕新娘跳舞：凯奇、钱宁汉姆、约翰斯、劳申伯格与杜尚”(Dancing Around the Bride: Cage, Cunningham, Johns, Rauschenberg and Duchamp)。该展览在费城艺术馆举行，堪称一次策展主题课：如何在展览中把艺术、音乐与舞蹈结合起来，就像本展览标题里的人们在半个世纪之前所做的那样。这个组合成功了，令人着迷。
‘The Encyclopedic Palace’ This presentation, organized by Massimiliano Gioni of the New Museum in New York, was the centerpiece of the 55th Venice Biennale. It was carefully thought out, masterfully paced, often moving, but flawed. It paid homage to the recently intensified fetishism surrounding “outsider art,” which has always been the mainstream art world’s acceptable version of identity art. “Outsider” is a complicated label; it can easily lead to the exoticizing and primitivizing of art and its makers. It did in this show.
“百科全书宫”(The Encyclopedic Palace)。该展览由纽约新艺术馆的马斯米利亚诺·吉奥尼(Massimiliano Gioni)组织，是第55届威尼斯双年展的核心展览。它经过深思熟虑，作品间的距离设置得当，经常变化，但却有缺点。它向最近对“局外人艺术”(outsider art)愈演愈烈的盲目崇拜致敬，这种艺术其实一直采取主流艺术世界能接受的个性艺术形式。“局外人”是个复杂的标签，它可以轻松指向异国情调和原始风情，乃至作品的创作者。这些在这个展览上都体现出来了。
‘Blues for Smoke’ Coming to the Whitney Museum of American Art from Los Angeles, this show might have gone the route of the Venice centerpiece, but didn’t. It took a potentially “racial” theme — blues as music — and flexed and stretched it to include artists of various ethnicities, sexualities, generations, dispositions and disciplines to define a state of mind. The expansion worked subtly, beyond category, and for that reason, grippingly.
“烟雾布鲁斯”(Blues for Smoke)，展览在洛杉矶的惠特尼美国艺术馆举行，它本可以成为威尼斯双年展的重头戏，但最后却没有。它有一个潜在的“种族”主题——布鲁斯音乐——并把这个主题扩展到不同种族、性别、世代、地域与门派的艺术家们，最终定义了一种心理状态。这种扩展十分微妙，超越了音乐种类，因此格外吸引人。
‘A Different Kind of Order’ The International Center of Photography’s fourth triennial show and its best so far. The goal was to acknowledge that photography has been utterly transformed by digital technology and to demonstrate that in the work of two dozen fantastic international artists. Importantly, the curators didn’t regard that change from a distance. They approached from inside, as a done deal, with belief.
“不同的命令”(A Different Kind of Order)，这是国际摄影中心的第四次三年展，也是最好的一次。展览的目的是为了表明摄影已经被数码技术彻底改变，并通过20多位世界各国艺术家的作品展现这一点。重要的是，策展人并没有站在远处审视这种改变，而是从内部接近这个改变，带着信仰，把它视为既成事实。
‘Jay DeFeo’ Further evidence that the Whitney Museum of American Art was having a good year with a succession of offbeat exhibitions. DeFeo (1929-89) lived most of her life in and around San Francisco, where this retrospective originated, and had close ties to the Beats. She is best known for a single work, a monumental relief painting called “The Rose.” But the show, like DeFeo herself, seemed indifferent to “greatness.” It told the story of one person’s life in art, not an easy life, but one lived with love.
“杰·迪菲奥”(Jay DeFeo)。惠特尼美国艺术馆举办了一系列不落俗套的展览，度过了丰收的一年，该展览是又一个证据。迪菲奥(1929-1989)几乎毕生都住在旧金山一带，和垮掉派关系密切，这次回顾展也是从旧金山开始的。她最著名的作品就是那幅纪念碑般令人安心的画作，名叫《玫瑰》(The Rose)。但这个展览正如迪菲奥本人一样，似乎对“伟大”无动于衷。它讲述了她的艺术人生，这一生虽然并不轻松，但是始终伴随着爱。
‘Jane Alexander: Surveys (From the Cape of Good Hope)’ This show, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, had the advantage of appearing in a charismatic non-art-world environment, and lived up to it. Born in Johannesburg, Ms. Alexander has for years been creating sculptural figures, part-human, part-beast, to dramatize the existential purgatory that is modern South African politics. Arranged in tableaus in the cathedral’s chapels, they looked like beings from another world and emanations of a collective psyche.
“简·亚历山大：调查（来自好望角）”(Jane Alexander: Surveys [From the Cape of Good Hope])。该展览在圣约翰神明大教堂举行，那里迷人的非艺术世界氛围让它占了一点便宜，它也完全没有辜负这个环境。亚历山大女士生于约翰内斯堡，多年来都在创作雕塑，有人类，有动物，旨在戏剧化地展现现代南非政治中存在的涤罪。这些雕塑以静态画的形式被陈列在教堂的礼拜堂里，仿佛来自另一个世界，是一种集体精神的发散。
Ernesto Pujol, ‘Time After Us’ This one-day performance also took place outside the art world, at St. Paul’s Chapel in Lower Manhattan, which, in 2001, was a refuge for emergency workers responding to the attacks on the World Trade Center. The event had 24 performers — dancers, actors and visual artists, along with Mr. Pujol — and lasted without a break for 24 hours. Silent, dressed in white, the participants simply walked counterclockwise and backward in an expanding and contracting circle in the center of the church. No spectacle, no props, no expense. Viewers, most of them tourists visiting ground zero, wandered in from the street. Many lingered. I had planned on a quick trip but stayed for two hours. I was in a sense still there when, just before falling asleep in my apartment late that night, I remembered that Mr. Pujol and company were at that very moment still in the church silently circling. I loved that.
厄内斯托·普约尔(Ernesto Pujol)，“我们之后的时间”(Time After Us)。这个演出持续一天时间，也是在艺术世界之外举行——下曼哈顿的圣保罗教堂，2001年，这里曾充当911事件紧急救援者们的急救所。这项演出中有24个演员，包括舞蹈家、演员和视觉艺术家，还有普约尔本人，演出不间断地持续24小时。表演者们身穿白衣，静静地在教堂中心，按照一个时而扩大，时而收缩的圆形路线逆时针后退行走。没有奇观，没有道具，没有大笔开销。观众们大都是来参观9·11遗址的旅游者，他们从街上信步走进来。许多人都会在这里逗留。我本来只想去看一眼，结果却呆了两个小时。深夜回公寓入睡前，那一幕还在我眼前挥之不去，眼前浮现出普约尔和那一群人那一刻在教堂里宁静地转圈时的情景。我喜欢它。
Detroit Institute of Arts I hated the news coming in throughout the year, like a bad dream, of the threatened dissolution of the Detroit Institute of Arts. Detroit is broke. Creditors are pounding at the door. The institute, one of the country’s great old museums, has a valuable collection, a chunk of which the city could possibly legally sell. That such a move would even be considered is a civic outrage, a trashing of the city’s future to plug some holes in its present. If it proves that the worst seems about to happen, the art world should get itself out to Detroit en masse and put its communal spirit to good use: Form a human circle around the building and, in one voice, just say no.
底特律艺术学院(Detroit Institute of Arts)。我讨厌底特律艺术学院恐将面临解体的这个消息，今年它不时传来， 就像噩梦一样。底特律破产了。债主们在大声地敲门。而艺术学院是这个国家最伟大的老博物馆之一，它拥有珍贵的藏品，底特律很可能合法地卖掉其中一大部分。为了解决眼下的困境就丝毫不顾城市的未来，这样的举动简直可以被视为暴行。如果最糟的事情真的就要发生，艺术界应该全体赶往底特律，把他们的公民精神用在正当的地方：在艺术学院周围组成人墙，众口同声地说“不”。