No one really talks about fabulous, must-have clothes anymore. Have you noticed? Instead, in 2013, the conversation focused on business deals (which luxury brand would go public next, the further designs of Amazon) and how celebrities faced their baby fat. Still, the year had its ironic moments and left-field surprises, plus a few artists who refused to be complacent.
没有人再谈起难以置信、非买不可的服装了。你注意到没有？2013年，话题聚焦在业界新闻（什么奢侈品牌要上市了、亚马逊下一步有什么动作），还有名人怎么处理他们的婴儿肥之类。不过，今年还是有许多令人啼笑皆非的时刻和偏门的惊喜，还有位数不多的一些艺术家拒绝沾沾自喜。
1. John Galliano helped Oscar de la Renta with his fall collection and then shared his addiction-recovery story with Vanity Fair and Charlie Rose. It was a classic, P.R.-managed bid to reclaim a reputation. While some were skeptical of this media performance, Mr. de la Renta heaped praise on their brief collaboration, saying that Mr. Galliano’s designs were commercial winners. Mr. de la Renta, 81, is looking for a successor. But maybe Mr. Galliano wants to buy back his eponymous label from LVMH, if he can.
1. 约翰·加利亚诺(John Galliano)协助奥斯卡·德拉伦卡(Oscar de la Renta)推出秋冬系列，还在《名利场》(Vanity Fair)杂志和查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)的节目上分享自己的戒酒经历。这是由公关人员安排的经典活动，旨在重获声望。有人对他在媒体上的亮相冷嘲热讽，德拉伦卡先生却对两人的短暂合作给予高度赞赏，说加利亚诺的设计是商业赢家。81岁的德拉伦卡正在寻找继任者。但加利亚诺可能更想从LVMH买回自己的成名品牌，假如他能做到的话。
2. At Dior, Raf Simons elevated the fashion conversation in a way that few could have imagined in 2012, when he was hired by the Paris house. He linked his own modern sensibility to that of Christian Dior’s, surprising the audience at his fall ready-to-wear show with calm and beautiful clothes that evoked Dior’s 1950s silhouette yet broke free of it. A flaring black skirt seemed to crash through the opening of an elegant red coat. There were references to Surrealism and Warhol, in color and embroideries. Mr. Simons said he was trying to recreate the reality of having strong sensitivities — clashes are inevitable. This was much more than a postmodern riff.
2. 在迪奥(Dior)，拉夫·西蒙(Raf Simons)把时装交流提升到2012年无人能够想像的地步，当时他刚刚被巴黎的迪奥聘任。他把自己现代的时尚感同克里斯汀·迪奥(Christian Dior)的时尚感联系在一起，在他的秋冬成衣秀上，那些宁静而美丽的服装令人想起迪奥20世纪50年代的身影，但不仅仅局限于此，令观众们大吃一惊。有一条喇叭裙似乎是从一件优雅的红色外套的开口跃然而出。它在色彩和刺绣方面，借鉴了超现实主义和沃霍尔的风格。西蒙说，他试图重新缔造一种富于强烈敏感性的现实——这样难免会有不协调。这远远不止于一次后现代主义的复现。
3. Baz Luhrmann’s “Great Gatsby” attempted to be a modernized version of the liberal 1920s, but, oddly, despite the Prada dresses and music by Jay Z, the director completely missed the decade’s real sense of freedom, especially among women. Adolescent flappers wore practically nothing: just a shift, step-ins and shoes with rolled stockings. That near-naked look would have certainly given Mr. Luhrmann’s movie a modern edge. Night life was also far more decadent than the noisy scenes he created.
3. 巴兹·鲁赫曼(Baz Luhrmann)的《了不起的盖茨比》(Great Gatsby)试图为自由的20世纪20年代勾勒现代版本，但奇怪的是，尽管片中有普拉达(Prada)裙子和Jay Z的音乐，导演完全忽视了20年代真正的自由精神，特别是女性的自由精神。那时候，青春期的少女们差不多什么都不穿，只有上衣、内裤、鞋子和长筒袜。那种近乎裸体的打扮本来可以为鲁赫曼的电影赋予现代感。那时的夜生活也远比他片中那些吵闹景象要颓废得多。
4. Nicolas Ghesquière took over Louis Vuitton as Marc Jacobs exited to devote himself to his label (and a possible I.P.O.). Mr. Jacobs once characterized Vuitton’s clothes as “window dressing” for its bags. That may be, but he helped define fashion at Vuitton. And clothing and shoes do not represent insignificant sales. A year away from the limelight and Balenciaga, where he made his name, Mr. Ghesquière now has a chance to do something powerful. We can hardly wait.
4. 马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)离开路易威登(Louis Vuitton)，专注发展自己的品牌（有可能公开募股）之后，尼古拉·盖斯奇埃尔(Nicolas Ghesquière)接替了他的位子。雅可布曾经说过，和路易威登的包相比，它的衣服就是用来“装点门面”的。或许是这样，但他的确帮助路易威登确立了风格。它服装和鞋子的销量也不小。盖斯奇埃尔远离聚光灯和令自己成名的巴黎世家(Balenciaga)品牌已经有一年了，如今终于有机会做一番大事业。我们都拭目以待。
5. At the Grammys in February, Adele shed black for a sumptuous red floral number by Valentino. She looked borne from a Renaissance painting to the red carpet, where typically the choices of celebrities are cushioned against complaint. Adele’s choice suited her beauty and charms, and, no, the cut was not “old lady,” as some moaned. It was a couture classic. She followed up in December with a similar cut by Stella McCartney, in a blue-and-green feather pattern.
5. 2月的格莱美颁奖仪式上，阿黛尔(Adele)穿了一件华伦天奴(Valentino)黑底红花豪华裙装。当她走在红毯上时，看上去犹如从文艺复兴时期的油画里走出来一样。名人们在走红毯时的着装难免遭人品头论足。阿黛尔选的衣服衬托出她的美貌与美丽，不，剪裁也不是像某些人埋怨的那样，像个“老妇人”。那是一件经典的服装。12月，她沿用了类似式样的服装，由斯黛拉·麦卡特尼(Stella McCartney)设计，是一件蓝绿相间的羽毛图案服装。
6. After Rick Owens’s men’s show in late June, when he featured a crazy bunch of guys from Estonia in werewolf masks, nobody could complain that runway shows lacked energy. The men, members of a band called Winny Puhh, performed while suspended upside down. Then, for his women’s show in September, Mr. Owens invited a bunch of American step dancers. Fierce they were as the young women got up in people’s faces, and the designer gracefully created a more inclusive experience.
6. 6月底，瑞克·欧文斯(Rick Owens)的男装秀上，请来了一群疯狂的爱沙尼亚男人，戴着狼人面具。没人能抱怨那几场秀缺乏活力。那些人是一个名叫“Winny Puhh”的乐队成员，他们表演时被头朝下地悬空倒挂起来。在9月的女装秀上，欧文斯又请来了一群美国踢踏舞演员。这些年轻女人的热情咄咄逼人，而设计师则优雅地献上了一次内容丰富的体验。
7. In 2012, bloggers were a big story. This year, the influence seemed to shift to YouTube, as more and more fashion companies, as well as editors and photographers, used it for mini-movies and other programming.
7. 2012年，时尚博主曾是大气候。今年YouTube似乎更有影响力，愈来愈多时装公司、时尚编辑和摄影师开始在YouTube上上传微电影和其他节目。
8. Americans will continue to buy clothing made overseas, but this year U.S.-made gained ground as more foreign-owned apparel makers invested in textile and yarn-spinning factories in this country, mainly in the South. That’s because of rising energy and labor costs in Asia. Meanwhile, manufacturers like Robert Kidder of the New England Shirt Company, in Fall River, Mass, have shown that there’s a creative reason to have a factory close by. You can actually get products that are distinctive, something the local-food movement has long understood.
8. 美国人还将继续购买海外生产的衣服，但今年“美国制造”在市场上赢得了一席之地，与此同时，愈来愈多的外国服装生产者开始投资于美国的纺织品与纺纱工厂，特别是在南方。这是因为亚洲的能源与劳动力成本增高的缘故。此外，马萨诸塞福尔里弗的新英格兰衬衫公司的罗伯特·基德尔(Robert Kidder)等生产商证明，附近如果有家工厂，是有利于创作的。这样一来可以生产出有特色的产品，这和本地食品运动是一个道理。
9. In September, New York Fashion Week drew enough boos for the cheesy atmosphere of its Lincoln Center hub that the Council of Fashion Designers of America (that is, Diane von Furstenberg and Steven Kolb, the organization’s chief executive) stepped in. The council will now be involved in the show calendar, just as its counterparts in Paris and Milan control their schedules. That’s a start, but with headliners saying they will leave the tents — Vera Wang and Carolina Herrera, among them — N.Y.F.W.’s new owners, William Morris Endeavor and Silver Lake Partners, still must fix an image problem.
9. 9月，纽约时装周在林肯中心的核心走秀因其低劣的氛围遭到嘘声无数，因此美国服装设计师协会（就是黛安·冯芙丝汀宝[Diane von Furstenberg]和斯蒂芬·考博[Steven Kolb]担任会长的那个协会）也介入了。今后协会将参与走秀的日程安排，就像巴黎和米兰的设计师协会也会安排当地时装周的日程一样。这只是个开始，但报纸上说，有些设计师会离开林肯中心的帐篷——其中包括王薇薇(Vera Wang)和卡洛琳娜·海莱拉(Carolina Herrera)——纽约时装周的新主办者威廉·莫里斯奋进公司(William Morris Endeavor)和银湖伙伴公司(Silver Lake Partners)仍然必须修补时装周的形象。
10. Hundreds waited in line at the opening of the Azzedine Alaïa retrospective in September at the Palais Galliera. The evening was a celebration of both Mr. Alaïa’s remarkable fashion and his long association with Paris. Olivier Saillard curated the starkly dramatic exhibition. Mr. Saillard, who in the last year staged a Paris couture exhibition and a performance piece with Tilda Swinton, works from the premise that visitors will engage with historical fashion when there are no hyper effects.
10. 9月，数百人在加列拉宫外排队等待阿瑟丁·阿拉亚(Azzedine Alaïa)回顾展开门。当晚既是庆贺阿拉亚在时装业的非凡成就，也是纪念他与巴黎的长期关系。奥利维·塞拉德(Olivier Saillard)为这次激动人心的展览担任策展人。塞拉德去年在巴黎做过一次时装展，还与蒂尔达·斯维顿(Tilda Swinton)合作了一场表演，他的策展工作旨在令观众沉迷在有历史内涵的时尚之中，同时又不做过度的渲染。
11. Ann Demeulemeester, one of the original Antwerp Six, transmitted a handwritten note to the news media saying she was leaving her company, bowing out. The decision, while initially surprising, didn’t seem as eventful as it might have a few years ago.
11. 曾为“安特卫普六君子”(Antwerp Six)之一的安·迪穆拉米斯特(Ann Demeulemeester)向新闻界发布了一条手写简讯，说自己将离开目前所在的公司，彻底退出。这个决定一开始颇令人震惊，但假如发生在几年前应该更轰动吧。
12. Just before Christmas, Dover Street Market, a creation of the Japanese designer Rei Kawakubo and her husband, Adrian Joffe, opened a New York outpost at Lexington Avenue and 30th Street. There’s a lot to discover, even among the familiar labels, because the edit is sharp. Having Rose Bakery on the ground floor is a treat, too.
12. 圣诞节前，日本设计师川久保玲(Rei Kawakubo)和她的丈夫亚德里安·卓菲(Adrian Joffe)打造的品牌丹佛街集市(Dover Street Market)在纽约莱克辛顿大道与30街交界处开设分店。因为选编眼光犀利，店里有许多东西可供发现，甚至在熟悉的品牌中也有新意。门店一层有Rose Bakery面包房也是一种享受。