According to the Chinese lunar calendar, the Year of the Snake began on Feb. 10. But by most other standards, 2013 is shaping up to be the Year of the Cat. In the first week of February, Hasbro, makers of the Monopoly board game, announced they were replacing one of the traditional tokens, the flat iron, with a curvaceous silver pussycat. Ailurophobes howled, blaming the “all-powerful cat lobby” (so teased a reporter on NPR), but the evidence suggests that public taste alone explains the switch. There are 86 million cats in American households, and in a Facebook survey, the nimble cat instantly leapt ahead of the regular Monopoly retinue to become players’ piece of choice — nearly twice as popular as the Scottie Dog, and three times more popular than the Car and Battleship. Take that, cat detractors!
从2月10日开始是中国农历的蛇年。但是从其他很多方面来说，2013年大有成为猫年之势。2月的第一个星期，大富翁(Monopoly)桌面游戏的生产者孩之宝(Hasbro)公司宣布，他们将把传统的“熨斗”棋子换成一只颇具曲线美的银色猫咪。恐猫者不禁大声咆哮，抱怨“万能的猫咪游说团”（这是NPR一个记者开的玩笑），但有证据表明公众的品味本身足以解释这个改变。美国现在有8600万只家养猫咪；根据Facebook的一项调查，这只机敏的猫咪很快就远远超过大富翁游戏中的其他常规棋子，成了玩家们的首选——它的受欢迎程度几乎是“雪纳瑞犬”的两倍，是“汽车”和“战舰”的近乎三倍。猫的诋毁者们，接受现实吧！
In March, Grumpy Cat, a scowling feline who receives one and a half million hits a month on her Web site, grumpycats.com, further heightened the profile of her species with a multistop media blitz. On the 6th, she traveled to Austin, Tex., where she was met by her sponsor (Friskies) and her agent, Ben Lashes (who manages many memes), and attended the South by Southwest 2013 festival. Two weeks later, she flew to New York, where she appeared on “Good Morning America,” gave an interview to Forbes, and dropped by Time Magazine for her close-up as meme of the moment.
“暴躁猫”(Grumpy Cat)是一只长着一幅怒容的母猫，3月里，她的网站grumpycats.com被点击了150万次，通过多站式媒体闪电战进一步提高了猫族的地位。6日，她到得克萨斯州奥斯丁参加了2013年“西南以南”(South by Southwest)音乐与媒体节，与赞助商（喜悦[Friskies]）和经纪人本·拉舍斯(Ben Lashes)会面——拉舍斯也为很多“网络米姆”（meme，指作为一种流行的、以衍生方式复制传播的互联网文化基因，可以是卡通形象、动物、当红视频等——译注）担任经纪人。两周后，她坐飞机来到纽约，上“早安美国”节目，接受《福布斯》杂志采访，《时代》杂志则选她作为时下当红米姆，登出她的特写照片。
There is no word on a reality TV show: the bases on that are covered, what with “My Cat From Hell” having just begun its fourth season on Animal Planet (hosted by the tattooed “cat listener” Jackson Galaxy), and a family-friendly new program, “Psycho Kitty,” set to be broadcast on Discovery UK this fall, hosted by the Nashville-based animal behaviorist Pam Johnson-Bennett, who is the author of seven books on cat training. (Yes, apparently, you can train a cat.)
电视真人秀更不用说：最基本的节目包括《我家的地狱猫》(My Cat From Hell)由满身刺青的“猫语聆听者”杰克逊·加拉克西(Jackson Galaxy)主持，第四季刚刚在动物星球(Animal Planet)开播；还有适合全家观赏的新节目《变态猫》(Psycho Kitty)今年秋天将在英国Discovery频道播出，由纳什维尔动物行为专家帕姆·约翰逊-本奈特(Pam Johnson-Bennett)主持，她曾经写过7本关于训猫的书（是的，显然，猫是可以训练的。）
Still, Grumpy Cat nabbed a book deal, even though clowders of other cats have beaten her to the punch. April saw the publication of “Lost Cat: A True Story of Love, Desperation, and GPS Technology” (Bloomsbury, 176 pp., $20), written by the amateur pilot and seasoned cat lover Caroline Paul and illustrated by her partner, the artist Wendy MacNaughton. Last year, while recovering from a bad accident in an experimental plane, in which she smashed her ankle and broke her leg, Ms. Paul suffered the further trauma of having her cat Tibia (Tibby) go missing for weeks — “waving his wild tail, and walking by his wild lone,” as Rudyard Kipling once put it.
此外，“暴躁猫”还抓住机会出书，不过早已有一大群猫抢在她前面了。四月出版了《迷失的猫：一个关于爱、绝望与GPS技术的真实故事》(Lost Cat: A True Story of Love, Desperation, and GPS Technology, Bloomsbury, 176 pp., $20)，作者是业余飞行员和资深爱猫人卡洛琳·保罗，由她的伴侣、艺术家温迪·麦克诺顿(Wendy MacNaughton)创作插画。去年，保罗女士在一场严重的试飞事故中撞碎了脚踝，摔断了一条腿，在恢复期间，她的猫提比亚（爱称提比）丢失了几个星期，令她遭受了更深的创伤——正如拉迪亚德·吉卜林(Rudyard Kipling)所写，“他挥舞着狂野的尾巴，在野性的驱使下独行。”
Tormented by visions of “catnappers, vivisectionists,” Ms. Paul blanketed her neighborhood with fliers and even consulted a psychic, to no avail. Luckily, the cat came back. Upon Tibby’s return, Ms. Paul clipped a GPS tracker to his collar in an effort to reconstruct where he had strayed (seedy juke joints, she thought, or a Russian bathhouse, or Antarctica). In the book, her text and Ms. MacNaughton’s ink and wash drawings record the sometimes true, sometimes fanciful results of her sleuthing (and guesswork) in memoir form.
对“捕猫者、动物活体解剖者”的想象折磨着保罗女士，她寻遍了住处四周，散布寻猫启事，甚至向灵媒求助，但都没有用处。幸运的是，猫咪自己回来了。提比回来后，保罗女士在它的脖子里植入了GPS追踪器，希望能再现他曾经逗留过的地方（她认为他去了一个有点唱机的破烂小酒吧，或者俄式澡堂，要不就是去了一趟南极洲）。在书中，她的文字以及麦克诺顿女士的水墨画以回忆录的形式记录了她时为真实、时为幻想的侦查与猜测。
In a different memoir, “Another Insane Devotion: On the Love of Cats and Persons” (DaCapo Lifelong, 304 pp., $24), Peter Trachtenberg tried to figure out what motivated the various women and cats in his life (particularly his cats Bitey and Biscuit), and failed entertainingly at both endeavors. “I’m always conscious that my judgments about what a cat is thinking or feeling aren’t really judgments but projections,” he writes.
另一本回忆录是《又一次疯狂的风险：带着对猫与人的爱》(Another Insane Devotion: On the Love of Cats and Persons, DaCapo Lifelong, 304 pp., $24)是彼得·特拉腾伯格(Peter Trachtenberg)的作品。在书中，他试图探寻自己生命中各种女人与猫咪的动机（特别是他的猫“咬咬”和“饼干”），二者都以有趣的失败而告终。“我一直都明白，自己对猫咪的想法与感受所做出的判断其实不是判断，只是推测而已，”他写道。
Far from frivolous, such meditations lie at the heart of the scientific quest. In her optimistically titled book, “The Cat Whisperer: Why Cats Do What They Do — and How to Get Them to Do What You Want” (Random House, 336 pp., $24), Mieshelle Nagelschneider explains that cat owners’ D.I.Y. inquiry follows the time-honored research practice of “speculative tracking.” Her findings may come in handy for Mr. Trachtenberg. And if Ms. Paul and Ms. MacNaughton had been able to read Ms. Nagelschneider’s chapters on “The Compulsive Cat,” and “Mind-Throwing: Inside the Being of the Cat,” Tibby might not have strayed in the first place.
这样的思考可不是什么无聊的想法，它也是相关科学研究的核心。米歇尔·纳格施内德(Mieshelle Nagelschneider)在她的《猫语者：猫为什么这样做——怎样让它们听你的话》(The Cat Whisperer: Why Cats Do What They Do — and How to Get Them to Do What You Want, Random House, 336 pp., $24)一书中，阐述了若干猫咪主人遵循历史悠久的“推理追踪”方法对猫自主进行的DIY研究。她的发现对特拉腾伯格可能很有用处。如果保罗女士和麦克诺顿女士读过纳格施内德书中的《难以控制的猫》和《疯狂：猫的内心世界》这两章，提比可能一开始就不会出走了。