If someone mentions the phrase “high-tech glasses,” you probably assume that person is talking about Google Glass, the smartphone-on-a-headband that Google hopes to offer for sale next year.
如果有人提到“高技术眼镜”这个词儿，你可能以为那个人在说谷歌眼镜(Google Glass)。谷歌希望这种戴在头上的智能手机能在明年面市。
The truth is, though, that 2013 has been the Year of the High-Tech Glasses in other, quieter ways. At least three new eyeglass technologies have arrived. They’re not intended to bring the Internet to your eyeball. They have a more traditional goal: improving your vision.
然而实际上，2013年已经以其他一些更安静的方式成为高技术眼镜年了。至少有三种新的眼镜技术已经到来。它们不是为了把互联网带到你的眼球前面。他们有更传统的目的：改善你的视力。
Here’s a look at three.
让我们来看看这三种技术。
ADLENS VARIABLE FOCUS Yes, it’s an unfortunate name; Adlens glasses may be the one place in today’s world where you won’t encounter advertising.
ADLENS可变焦眼镜(ADLENS VARIABLE FOCUS) 是的，这个名字有点遗憾；因为在当今世界上，Adlens（英文有广告镜片的意思，译注）眼镜或许是一个为数不多的你不会遇到广告的地方。
“Ad,” in this case, is short for “adjustable”; these are variable-focus glasses. The lenses of the Lennon and Hemispheres styles ($80 and $100; adlens.com) are filled with liquid, and cylindrical plastic knobs protrude from the sides. By turning the knobs, you precisely adjust the liquid pressure on a curved membrane inside the lens, affecting its power (from –4.5 to +3.5 diopters). They can handle even severe nearsightedness or farsightedness. They don’t work for the blurriness of astigmatism, but they’re perfect for presbyopia (better known as “over-40-reading-glasses-syndrome”).
在这里，Ad是adjustable（可调节）的字头；它们是可变焦眼镜。列侬式(Lennon)和半球式(Hemispheres)两款眼镜售价分别为80美元（约合500元人民币）和100美元；Adlens（网站是adlens.com）的眼镜片里充满了液体，两边各有一个圆柱形的塑料调节钮。通过旋转调节钮，你可以精确地调整镜片内部的一层弯曲膜受到的液体压力，从而改变眼睛的焦强（屈光度可在-4.5到+3.5的范围内调节）。它们甚至能校正严重的近视或远视。它们对散光导致的视线模糊无能为力，但对老花眼（或叫“40岁以上人群需戴眼镜阅读综合征”）而言，它们却是完美的选择。
There are distinct advantages to variable-focus glasses like these. First, you can tweak the lenses independently for each eye. Second, you can adjust them for different situations — tired eyes often need more help — or even different people. They’re a natural for restaurants, which can hand them out to patrons who’ve forgotten their reading glasses.
像这样的可变焦眼镜拥有独特的优势。首先，每个眼睛的镜片所需的屈光度可以独立调节。其次，你可以根据不同情况来调节镜片，比如，眼睛疲劳时需要更多的帮助，甚至还可以针对不同的使用者来调节它们。这对饭馆有用，饭馆可以给那些忘带老花镜的顾客临时提供这种眼镜。
Third, you can adjust them yourself, without requiring an eye doctor or a prescription. That’s a big deal in poor countries like Rwanda, where, Adlens says, there are 10 million people but only 14 optometrists. Even though a million Rwandans need glasses, almost nobody has them, according to the company. When you buy a pair of these glasses, Adlens donates a pair for distribution in Rwanda.
第三个优势是，你可以自己调节眼镜，不需要眼科医生或验光处方。在像卢旺达那样的贫穷国家，这点很重要。Adlens称，卢旺达有1000万人口，但只有14名验光师。据该公司称，卢旺达有100万人需要眼镜，但几乎没人有眼镜。如果你买一副这样的眼镜，Adlens便会给卢旺达捐一副，给那里需要眼镜的人。
The Lennon and Hemisphere styles look goofy because the lenses are perfect circles, like half dollars, which isn’t a design that will suit many faces. (They’re available in a wide range of frame colors and lens tints.)
列侬式和半球式这两款眼镜看起来有些笨拙，因为镜片是正圆形的，像半美元的硬币那样，许多人的脸型不适合这种镜片形状。（这些眼镜的镜框有多种颜色可选，镜片的颜色也可选。）
Furthermore, the adjustment knobs are big, ribbed and absurd looking, sticking out beyond the frames. Once you’ve dialed up the perfect focus, you can snap off the knobs, but then the glasses are no longer adjustable. You’ve locked in that “prescription” forever.
而且，镜片的调节钮很大，钮上有棱纹，看上去怪怪的。一旦调到最佳焦距，你可以把调节钮折断取下来，但这样一来就无法再调节焦距了。你已经永久性地锁定在了那个“度数”上了。
You can leave the knobs on, so that you can dial up different focal powers at different times. That’s fine if you don’t care what you look like (at home in bed, say), but you wouldn’t want to wear them in public like that.
你可以把调节钮留在眼镜上，这样就可以在不同时间调节不同的焦强。如果你不在意自己的外观（比如躺在家里的床上时）完全可以这样做，但你是不会戴这样的眼镜出现在公共场所的。
The third Adlens style, Emergensee ($40), is slightly more conventional-looking. Its adjustment knobs are much smaller and less conspicuous. They stay on, so you can always adjust the focus.
Adlens眼镜的第三种款式叫Emergensee，售价40美元，外形略显保守。这款眼镜的调节钮更小而且不太明显。调节钮可以一直留在镜片边上，这样你总可以调节焦距。
These glasses don’t have liquid inside; instead, each lens has two panes that slide past each other when you turn the knobs, so they still look a little odd. But Adlens promotes them as an ideal spare pair for the glove compartment or kitchen drawer.
这款眼镜镜片内部没有液体；镜片由两片镜面组成，当你调节焦距时，这两个面可相对滑动，所以看上去还是有点怪。但是Adlens推荐这款眼镜为最佳备用品，可以放在汽车仪表贮物盒或厨房的抽屉里。
The best, Adlens says, is yet to come. This fall, it will offer liquid-lens technology, for the first time, in normally shaped, designerlike frames. Stay tuned.
Adlens称，最佳产品还没上市。今年秋天，该公司将首次推出一款镜片形状正常、镜框类似名牌设计那样的液体镜片技术。让我们拭目以待吧。
O2AMP COLOR-ASSISTING GLASSES O2Amp makes tinted-lens glasses for the medical profession. According to the company, these glasses give doctors a “clearer view of veins and vasculature, bruising, cyanosis, pallor, rashes, erythema, and other variations in blood O2 level, and concentration,” especially in bright light.
O2AMP辅助辨色眼镜(O2AMP COLOR-ASSISTING GLASSES) O2AMP公司为医疗行业提供有色镜片眼镜。该公司称，这种眼镜可以让医生“更清晰地看到血管脉络、瘀伤、紫绀、苍白的脸色、皮疹、红斑，以及其他血氧含量的变化或浓度问题”，在强光下效果尤其明显。
But the purplish pair, the Oxy-Iso ($302), has an unintended side effect, the Web site says: they “may cure red-green colorblindness.”
但是，略带紫色的Oxy-Iso（售价302美元）有一种意外的副作用，网站上说，它们“或许能治愈红绿色盲”。
I just about hit the ceiling when I read that. Like about 8 percent of the male population, I’m colorblind; I have severe red-green colorblindness. That is, I see far less red and green than you do. I can’t tell blue from purple, or green from brown. And I fail miserably on those colorblindness tests where you try to see hidden numbers among colored dots (Ishihara plates).
读到这一点时我兴奋至极。我属于大约8%的男性，患有色盲症；我有严重的红绿色盲。也就是说，我比你们看到的红色和绿色要少很多。我无法区分蓝色与紫色，或者绿色与棕色。我每次色盲测试都惨遭失败，这种用名为石原氏色盲检测图(Ishihara plates)做的测试，让人从不同颜色斑点组成的图像中找出隐藏的数字。
Unfortunately, the Oxy-Iso glasses did nothing for me. I still failed the Ishihara tests.
不幸的是，Oxy-Iso眼镜对我毫无帮助。我还是无法通过石原氏色盲测试。
“We do have about one or two in 20 that don’t get any benefit, and it’s due to their colorblindness being too severe,” the inventor wrote to me. “What our technology does is amplify weak red-green sensitivity. But if there’s basically no red-green sensitivity at all, then there’s nothing to amplify.”
“确实有5%到10%的色盲者无法从中受益，这是因为他们的色盲太严重，”发明者在电子信中告诉我。“我们的技术只能放大对红色和绿色的敏感性。但如果对红色和绿色根本没有感受，就无法放大了。”
If the Amazon reviews are any indication, these glasses do permit many colorblind buyers to distinguish colors for the first time.
如果以亚马逊(Amazon)网站上的评论为标志的话，这些眼镜的确让很多色盲顾客第一次分辨出了颜色。
But the company notes that the Oxy-Iso filter amplifies the red-green discriminations “at the expense of their intact yellow-blue discrimination. In a sense, the Oxy-Iso spreads the color confusion more evenly around the color wheel.” That’s why you shouldn’t wear them for driving, because “yellow lights will become nearly invisible.”
但是，公司指出Oxy-Iso用的滤光镜之所以能放大红绿色的分辨力，是以“损失原本没有问题的黄蓝色分辨力为代价的。从某种意义上来说，Oxy-Iso更均匀化了对色轮上各种颜色的分辨困难。”这就是你为何不能在开车时带这种眼镜的原因，因为“黄灯变得几乎不可见”。
But if you’re red-green colorblind, and it’s worth $300 to be able to distinguish colors for the first time, you should try them. You get your money back if they don’t help you.
但是，如果你是红绿色盲，如果花300美元来使自己能够首次分辨这些颜色对你来说值得，那你应该试试这种眼镜。如果没有效果，他们会把钱退给你。
GLASSES.COM 3-D VIRTUAL TRY-ON APP Nothing is more design-dependent, fit-dependent or person-dependent than glasses. And few things make a bigger difference to your looks. That’s why most people buy glasses at a store, trying on pair after pair in a mirror, accompanied by trusted friends or family.
GLASSES.COM 3D虚拟试戴应用软件(3-D VIRTUAL TRY-ON APP) 没有什么东西比眼镜更讲究设计，更要求合适，而且更因人而异的了。而且很少有东西能让你的外貌看上去有那么大的变化。这就是为什么大多数人在实体店里买眼镜时，对着镜子一副又一副的试戴，而且往往有信得过的朋友或家人陪同的原因。
Most people would never trust buying glasses from a Web site. Pity the entrepreneur who tries to sell glasses online.
大多数人绝不会放心地从网站上购买眼镜。我对那些试图通过网络销售眼镜的创业者深表同情。
The online store Glasses.com has created some exceptionally slick, polished, useful software to address this problem. Its free iPad app creates a 3-D, photo-perfect model of your head — and then lets you “try on” thousands of different colors and styles of glasses and sunglasses. (Android and iPhone apps are coming.)
网络商店Glasses.com创造了一款能够解决这个问题的软件，它非常新潮、精致，也有用。它的免费iPad版本的应用软件能够为你的头部创建一个逼真且完美的3D模型，然后你就可以借助这个模型来“试戴”各种不同颜色和款式的眼镜和太阳镜了。（Android手机和iPhone版的应用软件也快出来了。）
You hold your iPad flat against a bathroom mirror. The app’s voice prompts you to turn your virtual head slowly from fully left to fully right; in a second step, you hold the iPad facing the mirror against your chin while it measures your face. You see it create a wire-mesh 3-D model, “Terminator”-style, and then boom: there’s a perfect, photographic, 3-D model of your head.
把你的iPad平靠在浴室的镜子上。应用软件的提示音会告诉你慢慢地把头从完全面向左边转为完全面向右边；第二步，你把iPad放在你的下巴下，让它面对镜子，测量你的脸部。你会看到它创建一个三维网丝状模型，像《终结者》(Terminator)那样的；转瞬之间，就能看到一个你头部的完美、逼真的三维模型。
Now the fun begins. You can “try on” any of 2,000 glasses designs in the company’s catalog. They’re well organized by style, color, price, brand and so on.
现在好玩的事情来了。你可以在该公司商品目录上2000款眼镜中“试戴”其中的任何一款。眼镜按照风格、颜色、价格和品牌等清晰地分了类。
Using your fingers, you can turn your head 90 degrees left or right. You can view four copies of your head on one screen, turning them in sync, to make it easier to compare glasses. You can even adjust how you’re wearing the glasses — lift the earpieces higher on your temples, for example, or slide them down your nose as if you’re peering at someone cute on the beach.
你可以用手指将你头的模型向左或向右旋转90度，在屏幕上可同时看到四个头部的图像，可以让他们同步旋转，这样就可以轻松地比较不同的眼镜。你甚至还可以调整自己戴眼镜的方式，比如把眼镜脚往太阳穴方向抬高一点，或是让眼镜从鼻子上滑下来一点，就像你在沙滩上偷窥某个可爱的人那样。
In a store, you can’t wear your existing glasses to see what you look like with a new pair on; now you can. In a mirror, you can’t see the side view of your head, either. And your entire online social circle can now give you feedback on your frames finalists, since it’s easy to send images by e-mail or to Facebook or Twitter.
在商店里，你不能戴着现在的眼镜去看自己戴新眼镜时的样子；而现在你可以这样做了。你在镜子里也不能看到自己头部的侧像。而且，现在你可以通过网上的整个社交圈子来征求最后侯选的几款镜框的意见，因为你可以轻松地将图像通过电子邮件、或Facebook、或Twitter来分享。 Now, Glasses.com is not, ahem, a purveyor of cheap eyeware. You won’t find $7 reading glasses or $10 sunglasses here. The sunglasses, for example, range from $50 to more than $450 a pair.
不过现在，（让我提个醒），Glasses.com还不提供低价眼镜。你在这里找不到标价7美元的阅读眼镜或者是10美元的太阳镜。这里的太阳镜价格从50美元到450美元不等。
Fortunately, Glasses.com offers an equally impressive try-at-home program. You can order four pairs at a time, wear them for a week and return the ones that didn’t make the cut; the company pays all the postage both ways.
但是一个好的地方是，Glasses.com提供一种同样令人印象深刻的家中试用服务。你可以一次订购4副眼镜，试戴一周，然后将不合适的退回去；该公司承担全部来回邮费。
Without question, the Glasses.com app represents the state of the art in virtual style shopping. It’s superb technology that really works and could save a lot of people a lot of embarrassment. Come to think of it, the world would be a better place if there were similar apps for other things that people should try on virtually before committing to — like hairstyles, tattoos and plastic surgery.
毫无疑问，Glasses.com应用软件代表着虚拟时尚购物的最新水平。这是一款的确实用的卓越技术，还能免去不少人的很多尴尬。想想吧，如果在其他问题上，比如发型、纹身，或整形手术，能用类似的软件帮忙，让人们在做出决定前先看看视觉效果的话，这个世界也许会更美好。