SINGAPORE — China’s private jet market could be summed up as a small pond with big fish. But the pond is not really so small — and it is growing fast.
新加坡——中国的私人飞机市场可以被形容为“池小鱼大”，但这个池塘并不是真的那么小——而且它还在快速扩张。
In all of greater China, which includes the mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan, there are only about 400 private jets, of which about half are based in Hong Kong and Taiwan. But because larger jets are favored, buyers are spending more per plane than in other countries, making it an important market for manufacturers to crack.
包括大陆、香港和台湾在内的大中华地区目前只有约400架私人飞机，其中半数左右在香港和台湾。但由于这里的买家青睐较大的飞机，他们在每架飞机上花的钱比其他买家多，所以这里成为了制造商争夺的一个重要市场。
“Chinese buyers are mainly selecting larger, transcontinental private jets, and the average cost of such planes is around $30 million,” said Jason Liao, chairman and chief executive of the consulting firm China Business Aviation Group. “That’s three times more than the world’s average of about $10 million” spent on a private jet.
“中国买家主要购买的是机身较大、可以跨洲飞行的私人飞机，而这种飞机的平均价格大约在3000万美元（约合人民币1.82亿元）左右。”中国公务航空集团(China Business Aviation Group)董事局主席兼首席执行官廖学锋表示，“这是全球私人飞机价格平均水平的三倍”。全球私人飞机价格平均水平约为1000万美元。
“So, 400 aircraft times three; suddenly we are talking about a dollar value worth 1,200 aircraft somewhere else,” Mr. Liao added. “That’s not a small market anymore. That puts China into the top five consumers in the world.”
“所以，400架飞机乘以3，相当于其他地方1200架飞机的市场规模。”廖学锋说，“这可就是一个不小的市场了，足以让中国进入全球前5名。”
Owners of private jets are typically either wealthy entrepreneurs or large companies, but Mykolas Rambus, chief executive of Wealth-X, a market intelligence firm that tracks ultrahigh-net-worth individuals, said that in China the two categories very often overlap. “In China, businesses and individuals are inextricably tied together,” he said. “Look at almost every major company in China, with the exception of the state enterprises, and you’ll find a very wealthy owner behind.”
拥有私人飞机的往往是富有的企业家或大公司，但追踪超高净值人士的市场资讯公司Wealth-X的首席执行官米科拉斯•拉姆布斯(Mykolas Rambus)说，在中国，这两大类别经常是重叠的。“在中国，企业和个人有着千丝万缕的联系，”他说，“看看中国的大公司，除了国有企业之外，你会发现每个公司背后都有一个非常富有的老板。” 
Calculating personal wealth is difficult in China, especially since a clampdown on corruption last year, but Wealth-X says that two separate trends appear to have emerged recently: While the number of people with net assets of more than $30 million fell about 5 percent last year, to 10,675, the number of people worth more than $500 million rose 10 percent, to 507.
在中国计算个人财富很困难，特别是在去年的反腐行动之后，但Wealth-X表示，最近似乎出现了两个独立的趋势：去年拥有3000万美元以上净资产的人数减少了约5%，为10675人，身家超过5亿美元的人数却增加了10%，达507人。
“These are your prime candidates for private jet buying, as their liquidity is on average $60 million or higher,” Mr. Rambus said, adding that the number of super-rich individuals was likely to grow a further 6 percent this year.
“这些都是私人飞机的优质潜力买家，因为他们的流动资金平均达6000万美元或者更多，”拉姆布斯表示，中国超级富人的数量今年有可能继续以6%的幅度增加。
A lack of infrastructure and flight paths has historically held back the growth of private flying in China. But government moves to address these constraints could make this the year that the Chinese market takes off, Mr. Rambus said, forecasting a potential 30 percent growth in ownership.
在过去，基础设施和航线的匮乏阻碍了中国私人飞行市场的增长。但政府放宽了相关限制措施，这可能让今年成为中国市场的“起飞年”，拉姆布斯说，他预计今年私人飞机的拥有量将增加30%。
The plane maker Bombardier’s most recent 20-year market projection anticipates that greater China will take delivery of 2,420 business jets from 2013 to 2032, including 1,000 by 2022.
飞机制造商庞巴迪公司(Bombardier)最近发布的未来20年市场预测报告预计，从2013年到2032年，大中华区将购买2420架商务机，到2022年会购买1000架。
According to Mr. Liao, Chinese buyers favor bigger aircraft not just for their range but also for business entertainment.
廖学锋表示，中国买家青睐较大的飞机不仅因为它们航程远，也是为了方便商务应酬。
“In the West, a private jet is seen typically as a transport vehicle,” he said. “In China, that is certainly a very important part of that, but it is also used very differently, reflecting how the Chinese conduct business. First, they have to know each other well, build trust. And this is often done in less formal ways compared to the West.”
“在西方，私人飞机通常被视为运输工具，”他说。“在中国，运输肯定也是一个非常重要的方面，但私人飞机还有大不相同的用途，它体现了中国人怎样做生意。首先，双方必须了解彼此，建立信任。而这往往是用跟西方相比不太正式的方式进行的。”
“It’s done around a dining table, playing cards, karaoke,” Mr. Liao continued. “So private jets in Asia not only serve as a business tool, but also as an important socializing tool, hence their size.”
“这些方式可能是一起吃饭、打牌、唱卡拉OK，”廖学锋说。“所以在亚洲，私人飞机不仅是一种商务工具，同时也是一种重要的社交工具，这就需要飞机的机舱比较大。”
On balance, wealthy Chinese are “younger than their Western counterparts, and the implication of that is that they are much more active in business right now,” Mr. Rambus said. “They are also looking outside of China for investment opportunities, acquiring luxury brands, natural resources further afield. They see private planes as a business accelerator, and also a platform for entertainment and — frankly — favors.”
总的来说，中国富人“比西方富人更年轻，而这意味着现在他们在生意场上更活跃。”拉姆布斯说。“他们也在寻找中国以外的投资机会，收购国外的奢侈品牌和自然资源。在他们看来，私人飞机不仅是一个生意加速器，也是一个娱乐以及——坦率地说——人情平台。”
“In China, people turn to their friends who have access to a private jet, whether it’s a favor or not, and there is a huge gray market for charters that is done through personal networks,” he added.
“在中国，人们会去找可以提供私人飞机的朋友帮忙，无论这是不是一份人情，通过人际关系网使用私人飞机是一个巨大的灰色市场，”他说。
While a government anti-corruption drive has dampened conspicuous spending, private jet use “is far beyond the view of the traditional public eye,” Mr. Rambus said. “It’s one thing to be photographed with a substantial timepiece, it’s another to be photographed boarding a private jet.”
虽然政府的反腐行动打击了显眼的奢侈现象，私人飞机的使用却“远远超出了传统的公众瞩目的范围，”拉姆布斯说。“被拍到戴着贵重手表是一回事，被拍到登上私人飞机则是另一回事。”
Guan Dongyuan, president of the Chinese operators of the Brazilian plane maker Embraer, said “big demand for large-cabin, long-range jets in China” would continue to drive the market in the near term.
巴西飞机制造商巴西航空工业公司(Embraer)的中国运营总裁关东元说：“中国对机舱大、航程远的飞机有很大需求”，这将在短期内继续推动市场发展。
Restrictions on both domestic and international private flying have until recently held back growth — just five years ago there were only 30 private planes in mainland China, according to Mr. Liao.
直到不久前，对国内和国际私人飞行的限制还在阻碍这项业务增长——就在五年前，大陆还只有30架私人飞机，廖学锋说。
Still, regulations have been eased in the last few years and in November, the Civil Aviation Administration of China announced that it would further simplify flight approval procedures. It also eased requirements for obtaining a private pilot’s license, lowering the fitness criteria, which were previously the same as for a commercial pilot’s license.
但是在过去几年里，法规已经有所松动。去年11月，中国民航总局宣布将进一步简化飞行的审批手续。此外它还放宽了获得私人飞行员执照的要求，降低了之前跟商业飞行员执照相同的体检标准。
Guidelines issued in 2010 by China’s State Council and the Central Military Commission point to a gradual loosening of military limits on low-altitude flight. The plan is to open up airspace for flights below 4,000 meters, which could be a big boost for private flying.
中国国务院和中央军委2010年颁布的准则指出，将逐步放宽对低空飞行的军事限制。中国计划开放4000米以下的空域，这可能会对私人飞行起到巨大的推动作用。
Still, Mr. Liao said, China will need more infrastructure to cope with growth. It now has about 183 civil airports, for example, compared with more than 4,000 in the United States.
不过廖学锋说，中国需要增加基础设施来配合这种增长。例如，目前中国有大约183个民用机场，比较而言，美国则有4000多个。
Mr. Guan of Embraer agreed. “Improved airfields, creation of modern passenger and crew facilities, more efficient air traffic control, the recruitment and training of pilots and mechanics,” he said — China needs more of everything.
巴西航空工业公司的关东元同意这个说法。“改进机场，提供现代化的旅客和机组设施，进行更高效的空中交通管制，招聘和培训飞行员和机械师，”他说，在每个方面中国都需要加强。