From the theater to visual arts, opera to pop, critics for The New York Times anticipate the highlights of their fields in the coming year. Among the events that whet their appetites: the cinematic provocation of Lars von Trier, the Big Ears music festival, Hindu and Buddhist sculpture at the Met, Italian Futurism at the Guggenheim, the history of Polish Jews, a new Caryl Churchill play and a John Updike biography. GRAHAM BOWLEY
《纽约时报》从戏剧到视觉艺术、从歌剧到流行音乐的评论家们纷纷展望明年各自领域里的亮点。他们特别期待的事件包括拉斯·冯·提尔(Lars von Trier)引发争议的电影、大耳朵音乐节、大都会博物馆的印度教和佛教雕塑展、古根海姆博物馆的意大利未来主义展、波兰犹太人的历史、卡里尔·邱吉尔(Caryl Churchill)新写的戏剧以及约翰·厄普代克(John Updike)的传记。——Graham Bowley
ART
艺术
I’M LOOKING FORWARD to the Guggenheim Museum’s filling more or less top to bottom on Feb. 21 with “Italian Futurism, 1909-1944: Reconstructing the Universe.” It will be the first American museum survey of the most obstreperous, contradictory and possibly least loved of all strains of early European Modernism. Brace yourself.
我期待古根海姆博物馆2月21日的“意大利未来主义，1909-1944：重建宇宙”(Italian Futurism, 1909-1944: Reconstructing the Universe)展，它几乎对意大利未来主义进行了完整的梳理。它将会成为第一个检视早期欧洲现代主义所有门类中最不守秩序、最矛盾、最不被喜爱的流派的美国博物馆。做好准备吧。
First glimpses of the unbound catalog bode well for the lavish “Treasures From Korea: Arts and Culture of the Joseon Dynasty, 1392-1910,” opening at the Philadelphia Museum of Art on March 2, before touring to the exhibition’s co-organizers, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. Some 150 works from the National Museum of Korea in Seoul will summarize the heights of classical Korean culture, achieved during what may be the world’s longest-running Confucian dynasty.
我匆匆看了几眼“朝鲜珍宝：朝鲜王朝的艺术与文化，1392-1910”(Treasures From Korea: Arts and Culture of the Joseon Dynasty, 1392-1910)未装订的目录，感觉这会是场丰富的展览。它将于3月2日在费城艺术博物馆开幕，之后将搬到该展览的共同举办单位——洛杉矶县艺术博物馆和休斯顿的美术博物馆。来自首尔韩国国家博物馆的约150件珍宝将囊括传统朝鲜文化的巅峰之作。朝鲜文化差不多是在世界上统治时间最长的儒家王朝中孕育出来的。
What else? “Laure Prouvost: For Forgetting,” at the New Museum on Feb. 12, will give New York its most extensive view yet of one of the immersive video installations of Ms. Prouvost, the unexpected winner of the 2013 Turner Prize. The Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art will unveil its redesigned gallery on May 8 with an exhibition devoted to the singularly sculptural garments of the legendary British-American designer Charles James (1906-1978).
还有什么？2月12日在新博物馆开幕的“洛尔·普鲁沃：为了遗忘”(Laure Prouvost: For Forgetting)将向纽约人最全面地展示2013年特纳奖意外得主普鲁沃的其中一件沉浸式视频装置作品。5月8日，大都会艺术博物馆服装学院重新设计的展厅将通过一场展览揭幕，这场展览将展示传奇英裔美国设计师查尔斯·詹姆斯(Charles James, 1906-1978)独特的、具有雕塑感的服装。
And on March 7, the Whitney Museum of American Art will present its 77th biennial — and the last in its Marcel Breuer building at Madison Avenue and 75th Street, for at least a while. This incarnation is not your mother’s by-committee biennial. It has been selected by three curators from outside the museum, working independently, and each taking a floor. Look forward to some interesting contrasts of curatorial visions and installation approaches. ROBERTA SMITH
3月7日，惠特尼美国艺术博物馆将举办第77届双年展，这是它在自己位于麦迪逊大道和第75街交界处、由马塞尔·布鲁尔(Marcel Breuer)设计的大楼里的最后一次双年展——至少在一段时间内是这样的。它不是那种传统的由委员会主事的双年展。展品由馆外的三位策展人选择，各自策划，各占一层。期待能看到策展理念和装置方式的一些有趣对比。——Roberta Smith
I’M EXPECTING “Lost Kingdoms of Early Southeast Asia: Hindu-Buddhist Sculpture from 5th to 8th Century,” at the Metropolitan Museum, to be a spring sensation with early sculpture from Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia and Myanmar that is dew-fresh and beyond beautiful.
我期待大都会博物馆的“早期东南亚遗失的王国：5世纪至8世纪的印度教-佛教雕塑”(Lost Kingdoms of Early Southeast Asia: Hindu-Buddhist Sculpture from 5th to 8th Century)展，它会成为这个春季里的一件盛事，来自柬埔寨、越南、泰国、马来西亚和缅甸的早期雕塑如露水般清新，美妙绝伦。
I’m intrigued to see what Quentin Bajac, the new chief curator of photography for the Museum of Modern Art, has in store in his first big outing there in a historical survey called “A World of Its Own: Photographic Practices in the Studio.” Everything was made within four walls, but, if you judge by the names, the sky’s the limit.
我特别想看到现代艺术博物馆新的首席摄影策展人昆廷·巴耶克(Quentin Bajac)在他的首次大型展览中将展出什么。那场展览是个历史考察，名叫“它自己的世界：工作室里的摄影实践”(A World of Its Own: Photographic Practices in the Studio)。所有都是在室内完成的，但是从名字你就能判断，它将是天马行空的。
I look forward with huge relief to the arrival of El Museo del Barrio’s new director, Jorge Daniel Veneciano, and to seeing that indispensable institution back on its economic feet. Finally, I’m hoping against hope that the New York art establishment will wake up to the fact that by continuing to pile all its money on a minute handful of artists in a minute handful of galleries, it’s killing this city as a home to experimental new art. Spring’s the time for a palace revolution. HOLLAND COTTER
我十分欣慰地期待巴里奥博物馆的新馆长豪尔赫·丹尼尔·维尼西亚诺(Jorge Daniel Veneciano)的到来，期待看到这个不可或缺的机构重新在经济上站稳脚跟。最后，虽然我知道希望渺茫，但我依然希望纽约的艺术机构能够清醒过来，意识到如果它继续把所有的钱都投入到少数几个画廊的少数几个艺术家身上，那它是在扼杀这座城市作为试验性新艺术之家的美誉。春季是发动“宫廷政变”的最佳季节。——Holland Cotter
TELEVISION
电视剧
IT MAY SOUND TREASONOUS to favor the K.G.B. over the C.I.A., but the best thing coming up is the second season of “The Americans,” on FX in February. This clever, complex series about Soviet spies posing as an ordinary suburban couple makes it a lot easier not to care when “Homeland” returns for a fourth season on Showtime.
如果我说自己更喜欢克格勃而不是美国中央情报局，那我可能听起来像叛徒，但是即将发生的最让人高兴的事是2月份《美国谍梦》(The Americans)的第二季将在FX频道回归。这个聪明、复杂的电视剧讲述的是两个假扮成普通郊区夫妇的苏联间谍。有了这部电视剧，我就可以不必关心《国土安全》(Homeland)第四季能否在映时(Showtime)频道回归了。
“The Americans” stars Matthew Rhys and Keri Russell (“Felicity”) as a husband and wife in a K.G.B.-arranged marriage who have deep, conflicted feelings for each other and fluctuating faith in their own masters, even as they scheme to undermine Reagan-era America. (All their impostures are made more perilous by their neighbor, who happens to be an F.B.I. agent secretly assigned to counterintelligence.)
《美国谍梦》由马修·瑞斯(Matthew Rhys)和凯莉·拉塞尔（Keri Russell，曾主演《大学生费莉希蒂》[Felicity]）主演，他们是克格勃安排的一对假夫妻，对彼此有着深厚而矛盾的感情，对自己主人的忠诚也在不断波动，尽管他们计划阴谋破坏里根时代的美国（他们的邻居碰巧是个秘密从事反间谍活动的联邦调查局探员，因此他们的假冒身份面临着被揭穿的危险）。
It’s a 1980s period piece that doesn’t feel dated, partly because the ideological allegiances and betrayals of Cold War politics are filtered through more abiding themes of marital loyalty and mistrust. ALESSANDRA STANLEY
它是一部关于20世纪80年代的历史剧，但你并不觉得它陈旧，其中一个原因是冷战政治中意识形态的忠诚与背叛和婚姻的忠诚与怀疑这个更永恒的主题交织在一起。——Alessandra Stanley
REALITY TELEVISION has been around long enough to have its village elders, still trucking but a little creaky and worse for wear. Of late, producers have taken some of these shopworn franchises and, in the interest of revivifying them, injected ready-made strife. With “Survivor” this past season, it was adding family members to the game.
电视真人秀已经存在很长时间了，其中有些已显老态，它们还在向前进，只不过吱嘎作响，破旧不堪。最近，为了让某些陈旧的节目复兴，制作人们给它们注入了预先备好的冲突，比如让上一季《幸存者》(Survivor)节目中的幸存者的家庭成员加入到游戏中来。
On the new installment of MTV’s durable but increasingly blank “Real World,” it’s former lovers. “The Real World: Ex-plosion,” which has its premiere next Wednesday, will probably be slimy and gross, likely to hasten the show’s descent into “Bad Girls Club” mayhem territory, with an added helping of bed-hopping. This season takes place in San Francisco, which previously had the distinction of hosting the most socially aware “Real World” cast, and now, given the tease in the trailer about a possible cast pregnancy, could end up better known for spawning a “Real World” baby. JON CARAMANICA
《真实世界》(Real World)是MTV频道的老牌节目，近些年变得越来越单调。在最新一季中，他们增加了前任恋人。下周三首播的《真实世界：前爆炸》(The Real World: Ex-plosion)很可能会令人反感和粗俗，会让这个节目更快地像《坏女孩俱乐部》(Bad Girls Club)那样堕落到极端混乱的状态，频繁变换性伴侣这一点更会助长它的沦落。这一季将在旧金山举办，该市曾因孕育了《真实世界》里最有社会意识的演员而闻名。如今，鉴于预告片中拿一个可能的演员怀孕的事开玩笑，该市更出名的事可能会变成孕育了《真实世界》里的婴儿。——Jon Caramanica
SHOWTIME HAS TURNED OUT some of the quirkiest, most enjoyable shows of recent years — “Shameless,” “House of Lies,” “Weeds” — and a new series scheduled for spring seems as if it could find the same skewed sweet spot. It’s called “Penny Dreadful,” after the pulp publications popular in Victorian Britain, and John Logan, its writer and creator, intends to toss some famous fictional characters from that era into a pot and see what bubbles up.
近些年，映时频道曾制作过一些最离奇、最有趣的电视剧，比如《无耻之徒》(Shameless)、《谎言满屋》(House of Lies)和《单身毒妈》(Weeds)。今年春天即将播出的一部新电视剧似乎也能找到同样恶搞的最佳着力点。它的名字叫《低俗怪谈》(Penny Dreadful)，是根据英国维多利亚时代流行的廉价杂志编写的。该剧的编剧兼创作人约翰·洛根(John Logan)打算把那个时代的一些著名虚构人物放到一个锅里烩了，看看能做出什么。
“In practically a 10-year span, ‘Dracula,’ ‘The Picture of Dorian Gray,’ ‘Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,’ ‘The Island of Doctor Moreau,’ ‘War of the Worlds’ were all written,” Mr. Logan, whose screenwriting credits include “The Aviator” and “Sweeney Todd,” says in a video blog about the making of the series. “And I started thinking, ‘How amazing that all of those essential texts of the horror genre were written within 10 years. What was in the water in Victorian London to make this happen?’ ”
“在十年时间里，《惊情四百年》(Dracula)、《道林·格雷的画像》(The Picture of Dorian Gray)、《化身博士》(Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde)、《莫洛医生的岛屿》(The Island of Doctor Moreau)和《世界大战》(War of the Worlds)都被编写了出来，”洛根在关于本剧制作的视频博客中说。他创作的优秀剧本包括《阿凡达》(The Aviator)和《理发师陶德》(Sweeney Todd)。“我开始想， ‘恐怖片的这些重要剧本都在十年内被写出来真是不可思议。维多利亚时代的伦敦到底有什么独特之处会让人写出这样的剧本？’”
Among the stars who will help him explore that question: Josh Hartnett, Timothy Dalton, Eva Green and Rory Kinnear. NEIL GENZLINGER
将帮他寻找答案的明星包括：乔什·哈奈特(Josh Hartnett)、蒂莫西·道尔顿(Timothy Dalton)、伊娃·格林(Eva Green)和罗里·金尼尔(Rory Kinnear)。——Neil Genzlinger
ATTENTION-GRABBING CASTING doesn’t always work for HBO: James Carville and Mary Matalin polled poorly in “K Street,” and Dustin Hoffman and Nick Nolte couldn’t save “Luck.” (Dead horses were the least of that show’s problems.) But the pairing of Woody Harrelson and Matthew McConaughey as partners chasing a serial killer in the first season of the anthology series “True Detective,” beginning on Jan. 12, feels particularly promising.
引人注目的演员阵容并不总能在HBO频道获得成功：《白宫前街》(K Street)中的詹姆斯·卡维尔(James Carville)和玛丽·马塔林(Mary Matalin)并未受到好评；达斯汀·霍夫曼(Dustin Hoffman)和尼克·诺特(Nick Nolte)未能拯救《马场风云》（Luck；马匹死亡是该剧最不重要的问题）。但是伍迪·哈里森(Woody Harrelson)和马修·麦康纳(Matthew McConaughey)在多段式电视剧《真探》(True Detective)的第一季中搭档追踪一个连环杀手，让人感觉很有希望获得成功。该剧将于1月12日开播。
Mr. Harrelson is one of our most reliable film actors, and Mr. McConaughey has been on a roll, sometimes referred to as the McConnaisance, since “The Lincoln Lawyer.” As a bonus, the show’s fractured narrative, spanning 17 years, allows him to play his character as both a button-down, classically handsome leading man and a longhaired burnout, covering all bases for his fans. MIKE HALE
哈里森是最值得我们信赖的电影演员之一，麦康纳一直表现优异，在主演《林肯律师》(The Lincoln Lawyer)之后有时被称为“麦康纳复兴”(McConnaisance)。另外让人兴奋的一点是，该剧断裂式的叙述跨越17年，让他时而以一个温文尔雅、典型的英俊男主角的形象出现，时而以骨瘦如柴的长发吸毒者形象出现，全方位地满足他的粉丝。——Mike Hale
THEATER
戏剧
WHENEVER CARYL CHURCHILL comes up with a new a play, she seems to create an entirely new idiom. Surely the most adventurous and multifarious dramatist in English today, Ms. Churchill has taken apart and reassembled the languages of gender (“Cloud Nine”), high finance (“Serious Money”), the classic fairy tale (for the dystopias of “The Skriker” and “Far Away”) and Anglo-American politics (“Drunk Enough to Say I Love You?”).
卡里尔·邱吉尔不管何时写一出新戏剧，她似乎都在创造一种全新的风格。邱吉尔无疑是当今最大胆、风格最多样的英语剧作家，她曾经剖析并重组了性别语言（《九重天》[Cloud Nine]）、高级复杂的融资（《认真看待金钱》[Serious Money]）、经典童话故事（反乌托邦的《妖女》[The Skriker]和《远方》[Far Away]）以及英美政治（《醉到能说我爱你？》[Drunk Enough to Say I Love You?]）。
With her latest work, “Love and Information,” opening on Feb. 4 at the New York Theater Workshop (her customary Manhattan base of operations), Ms. Churchill is giving our fragmented, terminally impatient world an appropriately splintered mirror in which to regard itself. Directed by her longtime collaborator James Macdonald, this import from the Royal Court Theater in London has 57 scenes (crammed into less than two hours) and more than 100 characters (played by 16 actors). As with any new play by Ms. Churchill, attention must be paid; this time, though, attention will also be smashed into atoms. BEN BRANTLEY
她的最新作品《爱与信息》(Love and Information)将于2月4日在纽约戏剧工作室（她在曼哈顿的一贯演出基地）开演。在这部戏中，邱吉尔给我们这个碎裂的、极其没有耐心的世界一个同样碎裂的镜子，让它能从中看见自己。该剧的导演是她的长期合作伙伴詹姆斯·麦克唐纳(James Macdonald)。这部从伦敦皇家宫廷剧院引进的戏剧有57幕（塞在不到两个小时的时间里）和100多个角色（由16名演员扮演）。邱吉尔的任何一部新戏都应该引起我们的关注，但是这一次，关注也将被击成碎片。——Ben Brantley
TWO OF THE MOST ORIGINAL playwriting voices to emerge over the past decade are brightening the spring season: Will Eno and Sarah Ruhl both have new-to-New York plays planned in the coming months. After a foray onto Broadway with the Tony-nominated “In the Next Room, or the vibrator play,” Ms. Ruhl returns to her Off Broadway roots with “Stage Kiss,” a playful riff on romance and the theater in which two ex-lovers find life and art colliding when they are cast in the same play. Ms. Ruhl’s gift for blending surrealism, lyricism and sincere feeling is unmatched by any other playwright working today, and the casting of Jessica Hecht, who shares a similar ability to be funny, strange and touching all at once, augurs something special. The production opens in March at Playwrights Horizons.
过去十年中最有独创性的两位剧作家将照亮这个春季：威尔·埃诺(Will Eno)和莎拉·鲁尔(Sarah Ruhl)在未来几个月里都有新剧登陆纽约。鲁尔在用获得托尼奖提名的《在隔壁房间或振动按摩器游戏》(In the Next Room, or the vibrator play)突袭百老汇之后，带着《舞台之吻》(Stage Kiss)回到她的非百老汇根基上。这是一部关于爱情和戏剧的幽默剧，两位曾经的恋人发现生活和艺术发生了冲突，因为他们被选中参演同一部戏剧。鲁尔把超现实主义、抒情和真挚的感情融于一体的天赋是当今任何其他仍在创作的剧作家都无法匹敌的，而主演杰西卡·赫克特(Jessica Hecht)也同样具有集滑稽、奇特和感人于一身的能力，这些都预示着我们将看到一部特别的戏剧。这部戏将于3月份在“剧作家地平线”(Playwrights Horizons)剧院上演。
Meanwhile, after having his work produced exclusively off Broadway in New York, Mr. Eno is primed to make his Broadway debut with “The Realistic Joneses,” which I saw during its premiere run at Yale Repertory Theater. A darkly funny drama about two couples whose friendship is complicated by the shadow of mortality, the production has lined up the spring season’s most enticing ensemble cast: last year’s Tony winner Tracy Letts (who appeared in the Yale production), alongside Toni Collette, Michael C. Hall and Marisa Tomei, with the still white-hot Sam Gold (“Fun Home”) directing. A theater has not yet been announced, but the opening is slated for March. CHARLES ISHERWOOD
埃诺的作品在纽约都不是在百老汇演出的。现在，他做好准备携《现实的爱炫富的邻居》(The Realistic Joneses)在百老汇首次亮相。该剧在耶鲁储备剧院首演时我看过。它是一个黑色幽默剧，讲述的是两对夫妇的友谊因为死亡的阴影而变得复杂的故事。该剧汇集了今春最吸引人的演员阵容：去年托尼奖的获得者特蕾西·莱茨（Tracy Letts，她曾在耶鲁的首演中亮相），以及托妮·科莱特(Toni Collette)、迈克尔·C·霍尔(Michael C. Hall)和玛丽莎·托梅(Marisa Tomei)。导演是依然炙手可热的山姆·戈尔德（Sam Gold，曾导演《玩乐之家》[Fun Home]）。该剧将在3月份上演，演出地点尚未确定。——Charles Isherwood
EXHIBITION
展览
HOW DOES A museum in a nation’s capital tell the story of a people once deeply knit into that nation’s history and culture — until they were systematically murdered by the millions? The Museum of the History of Polish Jews opened last spring in Warsaw (on a site once in the walled-off Warsaw Ghetto), but the answer will not come until sometime this year, when its core exhibition — including eight galleries occupying more than 40,000 square feet — will finally be complete.
一个位于国家首都的博物馆要如何讲述该国一个民族的故事呢？这个民族曾深深融入该国的历史和文化，直至被成百上千万有组织地屠杀。波兰犹太人历史博物馆去年春天在华沙开幕（馆址所在地曾位于华沙的一处被围墙围起来的犹太人聚居区），但是这个问题的答案在今年的某个时候才能揭晓。届时它的核心展览将最终完成——包括4万多平方英尺的8个展厅。
Developed by an international team, with the museum’s curators led by the Canadian scholar Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett, the exhibition, in its size, ambition, location and importance, will instantly become a touchstone. If successful, it may influence the evolution of Jewish museums and other identity museums everywhere. EDWARD ROTHSTEIN
该展览由一个国际团队开发，该博物馆的策展人由加拿大学者芭芭拉·科申布拉特-吉姆布利特(Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett)领导。它的规模、雄心、地点和重要性将很快成为一个标杆。如果成功，它将影响世界各地的犹太博物馆以及其他同类博物馆的演变。——Edward Rothstein
FILM
电影
IN JUNE 1962, François Truffaut asked one of his “masters,” Alfred Hitchcock, to answer some 500 questions about his career. On Aug. 13 (Hitch’s 63rd birthday), the men, along with Truffaut’s collaborator the translator Helen G. Scott, met in Beverly Hills to commence work on the first of two epic interview sessions that resulted in more than 40 hours of tape. Their conversations covered the sweep of Hitchcock’s astonishing career — from his early stint creating title cards for silent pictures to a gruesome, lengthily staged murder in “Torn Curtain” — and led to the publication of Truffaut’s “Hitchcock,” one of the most influential books on its subject.
1962年6月，弗朗索瓦·特吕福(François Truffaut)请他的“导师”阿尔弗雷德·希区柯克(Alfred Hitchcock)回答约500个关于他的事业的问题。8月13日（希区柯克63岁生日那天），他们两个以及特吕福的合作者、翻译海伦·G·斯科特(Helen G. Scott)在比佛利山会面，开始了两段巨长的采访，获得了40多个小时的录像带。他们的对话覆盖了希区柯克令人震惊的事业的方方面面，从早期为默片制作字幕卡到《冲破铁幕》(Torn Curtain)中阴森、冗长的谋杀。最后特吕福出版了《希区柯克》(Hitchcock)一书，它是同主题图书中影响力最大的一本之一。
This year, Bruce Goldstein, the director of repertory programing at Film Forum, will turn that legendary Hitchcock/Truffaut encounter into a pair of complementary, back-to-back retrospectives. The Complete Hitchcock, a five-week series, begins on Feb. 21 and includes nine silent features that have been restored by the British Film Institute. (Hitchcock’s television oeuvre will be shown at the Paley Center for Media.) On March 28, the day after the Hitchcock series ends, with his 1928 feature “The Manxman,” Tout Truffaut begins. The three-week series will allow you to trace Hitchcock’s influence on Truffaut, including in “The Bride Wore Black,” a Hitchcockian tale with Jeanne Moreau, which he shot in 1967 — the year the American edition of his Hitchcock book was published.
今年，电影论坛(Film Forum)的剧目规划总监布鲁斯·戈德斯坦(Bruce Goldstein)将把希区柯克和特吕福的这次传奇会面变成两个互为补充、紧密相连的回顾展。“完整的希区柯克”(Complete Hitchcock)展将于2月21日开幕，持续五周，其中包括英国电影学院修复的九部默片（希区柯克的全部电视作品将在佩利媒体中心展出）。3月27日，希区柯克展以他1928年拍摄的故事片《曼岛人》(The Manxman)收场。第二天，“完全特吕福”(Tout Truffaut)展开始。为期三周的展览将让你追寻希区柯克对特吕福的影响，其中包括《黑衣新娘》(The Bride Wore Black)——这个希区柯克式的故事由珍妮·莫罗(Jeanne Moreau)主演，拍摄于1967年。那一年特吕福的《希区柯克》美国版出版。
“I especially liked the scene of Moreau watching the man who had taken poison Arak dying slowly,” Hitchcock later wrote Truffaut. “I think my particular sense of humor might have taken them a little further, so that Moreau could have picked up a cushion and put it under his head so that he could die with more comfort.” MANOHLA DARGIS
“我特别喜欢曼罗看着那个男人喝毒酒后慢慢死去的那场戏，”希区柯克后来写信跟特吕福说，“依照我独特的幽默感，我可能会让他们做得更夸张一些，我会让曼罗拿起一个靠垫，放到他脑袋下，好让他死得舒服点。”——Manohla Dargis
WITH ITS AUSTERE black-and-white cinematography, its stark images and its boxy frames, Pawel Pawlikowski’s “Ida” looks as if it were shot in the early 1960s, when it takes place. But there is much more than period nostalgia to this movie, which floated through festivals in Warsaw; London; and Telluride, Colo., in 2013 and is expected to have a North American release this spring. Reckoning with the Holocaust in Poland and the Communist rule that followed World War II, “Ida” is both a study of memory and an act of remembering, telling the story of a young religious novice and her aunt, a bitter Communist Party official. It is also something of a homecoming for Mr. Pawlikowski, a Polish filmmaker who has worked mostly in England. It haunted me as much as anything I saw in the past 12 months, and I can’t wait to see it again. A. O. SCOTT
帕维尔·帕夫利科夫斯基(Pawel Pawlikowski)的《艾达》(Ida)采用简朴的黑白拍摄手法、质朴的形象和四四方方的画面，看起来像是在20世纪60年代早期拍摄的。这个故事是在那个年代发生的，但这部电影不仅是对那个时代的追忆。2013年它在华沙、伦敦以及科罗拉多州特柳赖德市的电影节上接连受到好评，今年春天有望在北美上映。《艾达》反思的是波兰的犹太人大屠杀以及“二战”后共产党的统治。这部电影是对记忆的研究，而它本身也是在回忆。它讲述了一个年轻、虔诚的新党员和她的姑姑、一个尖刻的共产党官员的故事。它也是帕夫利科夫斯基的归乡之作，他是波兰电影制作人，但大部分时间在英国工作。在过去12个月里看过的电影中，这一部一直萦绕在我心头，我迫切地想再看一遍。——A. O. Scott
NYMPHOMANIAC,’ LARS VON TRIER’S sexually graphic four-hour, two-part erotic epic that recently opened in Europe and is scheduled to arrive in the United States on March 21 (Volume 1) and April 18 (Volume 2), poses a question: When the simplest Google search can yield an almost infinite variety of explicit pornographic images, what is the appeal of a movie about a woman named Joe (played as a teenager by Stacy Martin, and as an adult by Charlotte Gainsbourg) who relates her sexual history, Scheherazade style? Her audience is an older man (Stellan Skarsgard) whose questions and observations supply the movie’s intellectual superstructure. Each episode consists of four chapters. Shia LaBeouf plays the young man who deflowers her. Willem Dafoe, Jamie Bell and Christian Slater also appear.
拉斯·冯·提尔的《女性瘾者》(Nymphomaniac)是一部含有露骨性爱场面的色情叙事电影，长四小时，分为上下两集。它最近在欧洲上映，计划于3月21日（第一集）和4月18日（第二集）登陆美国。这部电影提出了一个问题：如今只要简单地在谷歌里搜索一下，就能找到各种露骨的色情图片，那么这部关于一个名叫乔（Joe，史黛西·马丁[Stacy Martin]饰演十几岁时的乔，夏洛特·甘斯布[Charlotte Gainsbourg]饰演成年的乔）的女人像《天方夜谭》(Scheherazade)中的苏丹新娘那样讲述自己性爱史的电影有什么吸引力呢？她的听众是一个年纪更大的男人（斯特兰·斯卡斯加德[Stellan Skarsgard]饰），他的提问和评论是这部电影的智力上层建筑。每一集包括四个部分。希亚·拉博夫(Shia LaBeouf)扮演夺去她童贞的年轻男人。威廉·达福(Willem Dafoe)、杰米·贝尔(Jamie Bell)和克里斯蒂安·斯莱特(Christian Slater)也在片中亮相。
Because Mr. von Trier is a cinematic provocateur with a grand visual imagination, “Nymphomaniac” is likely to be at least intermittently captivating, and the initial reviews have been guardedly respectful. The version being shown is an edit of this Danish director’s original five-and-one-half-hour version. STEPHEN HOLDEN
冯·提尔是个电影颠覆者，具有很强的视觉想像力，所以《女性瘾者》很可能至少会让人间歇性地着迷，第一批评论都谨慎地对该片表示尊重。这位丹麦导演的这部电影最初长达五个半小时，公映的是剪辑版。——Stephen Holden
BEFORE ‘STAR WARS’ persuaded Hollywood that budget-sucking sci-fi epics could be profitable, the Chilean director Alejandro Jodorowsky — the blissed-out force behind such trippy fare as “El Topo” and “The Holy Mountain” — had a magnificent vision. He would turn Frank Herbert’s operatic novel “Dune” into a picture that would deliver the hallucinatory equivalent of LSD.
在《星球大战》(Star Wars)让好莱坞相信极其耗费成本的科幻史诗电影可以很赚钱之前，智利导演亚历杭德罗·尤杜洛斯基(Alejandro Jodorowsky)已经有了个宏伟的计划。他是能引起幻觉的电影盛宴《鼹鼠》(El Topo)和《圣山》(The Holy Mountain)幕后的狂热推手。他计划把弗兰克·赫伯特(Frank Herbert)歌剧风格的小说《沙丘》(Dune)变成一部能像致幻药一样引起幻觉的电影。
“Jodorowsky’s Dune,” a look-what-we-missed documentary by Frank Pavich, currently slated for release in March, details this failed 1970s enterprise through the eyes of its creator, now 84, and others, some of whom would go on to collaborate on Ridley Scott’s “Alien.” Whether this grand obsession would have flunked or flown, we will never know, but with Orson Welles and Mick Jagger lined up for roles, Pink Floyd on soundtrack duty and a special-effects burden that (according to Mr. Jodorowsky’s “Unseen Dune” website) sent Dan O’Bannon to a psychiatric hospital, it might have made David Lynch think twice before diving into his own adventure with spice and sand. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
《尤杜洛斯基的沙丘》(Jodorowsky’s Dune)是弗兰克·帕维奇(Frank Pavich)的一部纪录片，它似乎在说“看看我们都错过了什么”。该片计划在3月份发布，它透过那部电影的创作者、84岁的尤杜洛斯基以及其他一些人的眼睛详细回顾了这部未能完成的70年代电影。这些人中的一部分人后来在雷德利·斯科特(Ridley Scott)的《异形》(Alien)中继续合作。我们永远也无法知道这个宏伟的计划如果完成，到底是会失败还是会成功，但是奥森·威尔斯(Orson Welles)和米克·贾格尔(Mick Jagger)想出演该片，平克·弗洛伊德(Pink Floyd)负责给电影配乐，（据尤杜洛斯基的“见不到的沙丘”[Unseen Dune]网站说）影片的特效压力让丹·奥巴农(Dan O’Bannon)住进了精神病院，所以如果它完成，至少会让大卫·林奇(David Lynch)在开始自己的香料、沙丘冒险之前考虑再三。——Jeannette Catsoulis
VIDEO GAMES
电子游戏
A RAFT OF BIG-BUDGET TITLES for Sony’s PlayStation 4 and Microsoft’s Xbox One will be released in 2014. Some, perhaps many, will be excellent. But the two I’m most looking forward to playing are from the vibrant independent movement in video games: Brendon Chung’s Quadrilateral Cowboy and Jonathan Blow’s the Witness.
2014年将发布大量为索尼的PlayStation 4游戏机和微软的Xbox One游戏机设计的大制作游戏。其中一些——也许其中很多——将会很优秀。但是我最期待的两款游戏来自两家有活力的独立游戏公司：布伦登·钟(Brendon Chung)的《四边形牛仔》(Quadrilateral Cowboy)和乔纳森·布洛(Jonathan Blow)的《目击者》(Witness)。
That’s a bit of a cheat, because I’ve already played some of both: Quadrilateral Cowboy at the Museum of the Moving Image in Queens, where it’s on display as part of the “Indie Essentials” exhibition, until March 2 (go play it!); and the Witness at a Manhattan hotel in 2011, when Mr. Blow was demonstrating a prototype of the game. It is, he said, designed to convey meaning nonverbally, through the player’s interaction with puzzles. I can’t wait to try to explain whether that works — in words. CHRIS SUELLENTROP
这多少有点算作弊，因为这两款游戏我都玩过一点儿：我在皇后区的动态影像博物馆玩过《四边形牛仔》，它是在那里的“独立要素”(Indie Essentials)展上展出，该展览将持续到3月2日（去玩吧！）；2011年我在曼哈顿的一家酒店玩过《目击者》，布洛当时是在展示这款游戏的原型。他说这款游戏传递信息的方式不是通过语言，而是通过游戏者与谜题的互动。我迫不及待地想解释一下它是否行得通——当然我是用语言。——Chris Suellentrop
DANCE
舞蹈
WHEN I WAS NEW TO DANCE, I soon learned that the choreography of Frederick Ashton repays endless rewatching, and there are several ballets of his of which I hated to miss a single performance. Watching the casts change was merely incidental. For me, these creations were like detective stories. Every step was a clue that played its part in the fascinatingly intricate whole. Today, I haven’t changed; I’m still learning from Ashton.
我刚接触舞蹈的时候，很快就发现弗雷德里克·阿什顿(Frederick Ashton)的编舞值得一看再看，他的其中几部芭蕾舞剧，只要上演，我都舍不得错过。看看演员阵容有哪些改变只是附带性的目的。对我来说，这些创作就像侦探故事。每一步都是一个线索，在这个迷人的复杂故事中发挥自己的作用。如今，我依然这么认为；我仍在向阿什顿学习。
In June, American Ballet Theater (abt.org) will bring its first production of his “Cinderella” to the Metropolitan Opera House. This is actually one of his few imperfect creations. Although the score is Prokofiev’s greatest — far more rhythmically fascinating than the better-known “Romeo and Juliet” — it has a few ugly moments, and the final act, though irresistible, is not its finest. And the roles of the Ugly Sisters, played by men, have seldom been remotely funny in the last 25 years.
今年6月，美国芭蕾舞团(abt.org)将首次在大都会歌剧院演出阿什顿的《灰姑娘》(Cinderella)。这实际上是他的几部不完美的作品之一。虽然里面的配乐是普罗科菲耶夫最伟大的作品——在节奏上比更出名的《罗密欧和朱丽叶》(Romeo and Juliet)更迷人——但是其中有几处很难看，最后一场戏虽然很诱人，但也不是最好的。由男人扮演的两个丑姐姐在过去25年中极少不引人发笑。
What I hanker to see again are those steps. The ballroom of Act II is like nothing else in ballet. In this tight, dense dream world, steps echo one another as if in a hall of mirrors, and Cinderella reigns — until the astounding strokes of midnight, when everyone around her turns into an implacable but classical machine. ALASTAIR MACAULAY
我渴望再次看到的是那些台阶。第二幕中的舞厅在芭蕾舞剧中极为罕见。在这个紧密、拥挤的梦幻世界里，台阶彼此呼应，就像是在一个充满镜子的大厅里，灰姑娘主宰着一切，直到令人惊骇的午夜钟声响起，突然之间她周围的每个人都变成了无情的、传统的机器。——Alastair Macaulay
MUSIC
音乐
LOOKING AT VIENNA as a hotbed of artistic innovation may not seem like such a novel idea for a festival. But Carnegie Hall is doing it right with Vienna: City of Dreams, an ambitious, three-week celebration presenting more than 90 events, many of them at partnering institutions and ensembles across New York City. The festival will look at developments that took place in Vienna not just in all the arts, but in history, science and politics as well.
把“维也纳视为艺术创新的温床”作为举办音乐节的旗号，似乎没什么新意。但是卡内基音乐厅的“维也纳：梦想之城”(Vienna: City of Dreams)做得很好。这个为期三周的雄心勃勃的庆祝活动将举办90多场演出，其中很多是在纽约市的各个合作机构和歌舞团举办的。这个音乐节不仅将回顾维也纳各个艺术门类的发展，也将回顾其历史、科学和政治的发展。
And of all the offerings in this comprehensive festival, I am most eager to attend the concert performances of two seminal early-20th-century operas by the Vienna State Opera, featuring the glorious Vienna Philharmonic, at Carnegie Hall (carnegiehall.org). On Feb. 28, Daniele Gatti conducts this renowned orchestra in Berg’s “Wozzeck,” with a cast headed by the compelling baritone Matthias Goerne in the title role of an oppressed and delusional soldier in an Austrian garrison town in the 1820s who supplements his meager pay by performing menial tasks for an overbearing captain; he is undone when Marie, his beleaguered, common-law wife, is enticed by a dashing drum major. The soprano Evelyn Herlitzius sings Marie.
在这个综合性音乐节的各种演出中，我最渴望观看的是维也纳国家歌剧团两部很有影响力的20世纪早期歌剧，出色的维也纳爱乐乐团负责伴奏，在卡内基音乐厅(carnegiehall.org)举行。2月28日，达尼埃尔·加蒂(Daniele Gatti)将指挥这个著名的交响乐团演出伯格(Berg)的《伍采克》(Wozzeck)，由引人注目的男中音歌手马西亚斯·戈埃内(Matthias Goerne)领衔主演。伍采克是19世纪20年代奥地利一个驻防小镇上的一名受压迫的、患有妄想症的士兵，他为一个傲慢的队长干些杂活来补贴微薄的收入。当他烦恼重重、未办理正式手续的妻子玛丽(Marie)被一个潇洒的乐队指挥引诱之后，他崩溃了。女高音歌手伊芙琳·赫利泽斯(Evelyn Herlitzius)扮演玛丽。
The next night (March 1), Andris Nelsons, the music-director designate of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, conducts the Vienna Philharmonic in Strauss’s “Salome,” with the German soprano Gun-Brit Barkmin in the title role, and the baritone Falk Struckmann as Jochanaan. For this look ahead, each critic was asked to pick just one event. Technically, I’m cheating a bit by choosing two. But these concert performances on successive nights are like a paired offering at the festival. For sheer impact, they should be an operatic one-two punch. ANTHONY TOMMASINI
第二天晚上（3月1日），波士顿交响乐团的候任音乐总监安德里斯·内尔松(Andris Nelsons)将指挥维也纳爱乐乐团演奏施特劳斯(Strauss)的《莎乐美》(Salome)。德国女高音歌手古恩-布利特·巴克敏(Gun-Brit Barkmin)扮演莎乐美，男中音歌手福尔克·施特鲁克曼(Falk Struckmann)扮演约克兰(Jochanaan)。在这个展望中，每个评论家只能选一个活动，所以严格说来，我算是作弊，因为选了两个。但是这两场音乐表演是在前后相连的两个晚上举行的，就像音乐节上的一组活动。纯粹从影响力的角度讲，它们应该算是歌剧上的组合拳。——Anthony Tommasini
THE MOST WIDELY repeated judgment on the Greek violinist Leonidas Kavakos is that he’s “a violinist’s violinist,” and “a musician’s musician.” I’d like to disagree. With a clean, singing sound and an approach to phrasing that is as elegant as it is intelligent, Mr. Kavakos’s playing requires no special training to appreciate. His recording of the complete Beethoven sonatas with the wonderful Italian pianist Enrico Pace is one of the finest introductions to the cycle. The conversations, arguments and flirtations between violin and piano are rendered with spirit and impeccable taste, as are the sublime moments of contented calm that are all the more magical because they appear so hard won.
人们对希腊小提琴家列奥尼达斯·卡瓦科斯(Leonidas Kavakos)最普遍的评价是，他是“小提琴家中的小提琴家”，是“音乐家中的音乐家”。我想对此表示异议。卡瓦科斯干净、歌唱般的音色以及优雅、智慧的阐释手法连未经特别培训的观众都能欣赏。他和出色的意大利钢琴家恩里科·佩斯(Enrico Pace)合奏的贝多芬奏鸣曲全集唱片是各演奏版本中最好的。小提琴和钢琴之间的对话、争执和调情带着灵性和无可挑剔的品味展示出来，能让你获得无与伦比的、心满意足的平静，这种感觉如此难得，所以更显神奇。
Hear them live over the course of three evenings from March 2 through 4 in Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall (carnegiehall.org) — no instrument case required. CORINNA da FONSECA-WOLLHEIM
3月2日至4日连续三晚在卡内基音乐厅(carnegiehall.org)的赞克尔厅你能听到他们的现场演奏。不需要其他演出器材。——Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim
THE ONLY DISAPPOINTMENT of a visit by William Christie and his brilliant Baroque ensemble, Les Arts Florissants, in April is that audiences will get only part of “Platée,” Rameau’s uproarious, unexpectedly affecting opera. The music will all be there, of course, but unlike Vienna and Paris, where the company is mounting a full production (directed by Robert Carsen, who did the Metropolitan Opera’s new “Falstaff”), New York will hear “Platée” only in concert, at Alice Tully Hall (lincolncenter.org). Perhaps the problem was insufficient funds, or a lack of an appropriate hall: The city doesn’t have a really good space for Baroque opera. Whatever the reason, the bittersweetness will likely dissolve into pure joy when these consummate artists start to play and sing.
威廉姆·克里斯蒂(William Christie)和他杰出的巴洛克式歌舞团繁盛艺术合唱团(Les Arts Florissants)4月份将来纽约演出。唯一令人失望的是观众只能看到拉莫(Rameau)令人捧腹大笑又意外感人的歌剧《普拉蒂》(Platée)的一部分。音乐当然会全部演奏，但是与他们在维也纳和巴黎的演出不同，在那里，该公司装备了全套人马（由罗伯特·卡尔森[Robert Carsen]导演，他曾在大都会歌剧院导演过新版《法尔斯塔夫》[Falstaff]）。而纽约人只能在爱丽丝·杜莉音乐厅(lincolncenter.org)欣赏《普拉蒂》的音乐会。也许是因为缺乏资金，也许是因为找不到合适的音乐厅：这座城市没有真正适合上演巴洛克式歌剧的好空间。不管为何，当这些完美的艺术家们开始演奏和歌唱时，这种苦乐参半的感觉将融化为纯粹的欢乐。
As a bonus, Mr. Christie is staying on for a short residency at the Juilliard School (juilliard.edu), leading its crisp Baroque group, Juilliard415, in a program of French Baroque chamber music at the Vélez Blanco Patio of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and then in Charpentier’s short, exquisite “Actéon,” as part of the Music Before 1800 series at Corpus Christi Church in Morningside Heights. ZACHARY WOOLFE
另外让人高兴的是，克里斯蒂将在朱丽亚音乐学院(juilliard.edu)短期停留，领导这里新的巴洛克歌舞团朱丽亚415(Juilliard415)在大都会艺术博物馆的贝莱斯·布兰科中庭演出一部法国巴洛克室内音乐剧，然后演出卡彭特(Charpentier)的精致短剧《阿克迪翁》(Actéon)，它是莫宁赛德高地基督圣体教堂的“1800年之前的音乐”(Music Before 1800)系列表演的一部分。——Zachary Woolfe
THE INEXORABLE LOGIC of a pop career has called for ever-larger audiences: club to theater to arena. The xx, an English band whose songs whisper about love and uncertainty in rigorously sparse, intimate arrangements, has been ambivalent about that ascent. In “Chained,” from the band’s 2012 album, “Coexist,” Romy Madley Croft and Oliver Sim sing, “We used to get closer than this/Is it something you miss?”
流行事业的一个不可改变的逻辑是要求更多的观众：从俱乐部到剧院到舞台，莫不如此。英国乐队xx的歌曲以特别稀疏、私密的编曲吟唱爱与不确定。该乐队对表演舞台的这种提升持矛盾的态度。在该乐队2012年专辑《共存》(Coexist)的《束缚》(Chained)一歌中，罗米·麦德利·克罗夫特(Romy Madley Croft)和奥利弗·西姆(Oliver Sim)唱到，“我们曾经很亲密/你是否想念那种感觉？”
This spring, they are briefly and conceptually scaling down, bringing to the United States an event they staged last year in Manchester, England. From March 19 through 29, they are playing 25 shows — two or three per day — in a specially constructed space within the Park Avenue Armory (armoryonpark.org; sold out with a waiting list). For those 1,000 concertgoers, the promise isn’t exclusivity, it’s intensity. JON PARELES
今年春天，他们暂时概念性地缩小演出规模，将把去年在英国曼彻斯特上演的一个活动带到美国。从3月19日至29日，他们在帕克大道军械库(armoryonpark.org)特别搭建的舞台上演出25场，每天两到三场（票已售完，可以在等待名单上登记）。对那1000名去听音乐会的观众来说，他们不一定能看到独一无二的演出，但是一定能看到震撼的演出。——Jon Pareles
BIG EARS IS BACK: It’s an extraordinary music festival in Knoxville, Tenn., drawing and serving the intersections among classical minimalism; detail-oriented indie-rock; experimental electronics and improvisation; drone-based or ambient music; and complete wild-hair whatever.
大耳朵回归啦！它是田纳西州诺克斯维尔市的一个特别的音乐节，吸引各种流派并为它们的相互交流服务：经典极简派，注重细节的独立摇滚，试验性电子乐和即兴音乐，单调连续的音乐或氛围音乐，以及完全狂野的音乐。
During its first two editions, in the spring of 2009 and 2010, I was amazed to see challenging music take over a relaxed, midsize city, presented with attention to sound and comfort — in renovated historic theaters, a museum, a large club and a cheery warehouse district dive. Then it went away for three years because of scheduling difficulties.
在2009年春天和2010年春天的前两届音乐节上，我惊奇地看到撩人的音乐接管了这座悠闲的中等城市，呈现出音乐和舒适——在重新布置的历史剧院里，在博物馆里，在大型俱乐部里，在欢乐的仓储区低级酒吧里。然后因为日程安排的困难停办了三年。
The whole thing seemed too smart and feisty and multigenerational to live, at least in this country. But it’s not presented by a scratchy nonprofit; it’s run by AC Entertainment, one of the founders and producers of the enormous Bonnaroo festival, and manager-operator of those historic Knoxville theaters. It has a fighting chance.
这个音乐节太时髦、太活跃、太跨越辈分，似乎无法存活下去，至少在美国是这样。但它不是由草率的非盈利公司举办的，而是由AC娱乐公司(AC Entertainment)举办。该公司是庞大的波纳罗音乐节的发起人和举办方之一，也是那些历史悠久的诺克斯维尔剧院的经营管理者，所以这个音乐节有获得重生的机会。
This year, Steve Reich, 77, and his music will serve as its centerpiece. (The festival is scheduled for March 28 through 30.) John Cale, once of the Velvet Underground, will be there, as will the reunited New York City band Television, and the ambient-sound artist Laraaji. The loud, riveting, improvisational power trio Nazoranai will make its first American appearance. And three significant contemporary electronic composers — the Canadian Tim Hecker, the Finnish Vladislav Delay and the American Daniel Lopatin — will work with totally different conceptions of melted or erased pop languages.
今年，77岁的史蒂夫·里奇(Steve Reich)和他的音乐意愿将是重头戏（音乐节将在3月28日至30日举办）。地下丝绒(Velvet Underground)乐队曾经的成员约翰·凯尔(John Cale)将参演，重组的纽约乐队“电视”(Television)和氛围音乐艺术家拉拉吉(Laraaji)也将参演。喧闹、迷人的即兴音乐三人组Nazoranai将首次在美国登台。三位重要的当代电子乐作曲家——加拿大的蒂姆·赫克(Tim Hecker)、芬兰的弗拉季斯拉夫·迪莱(Vladislav Delay)和美国的丹尼尔·洛帕廷(Daniel Lopatin)——将用全新的逐渐消失或抹去的流行音乐语言概念进行创作。
Go, and try to hear things that may not be in your normal aural diet; pay attention to the connections it draws; make your own. BEN RATLIFF
去吧，听听那些你通常不会听到的音乐，注意它们获得的联系，找出你自己的联系。——Ben Ratliff
BOOKS
图书
FIVE YEARS AFTER HIS DEATH, John Updike seems like a very Dead White Male indeed. He’s on few academic reading lists. Young novelists spurn him the way the ‘60s generation spurned their parents’ martinis. The consensus is that Updike lost the marathon to Philip Roth, who turned on the afterburners in his late decades. I’m less certain, agreeing with Ian McEwan that “the Updike opus is so vast, so varied and rich, that we will not have its full measure for years to come.” Adam Begley is a smart writer, and his forthcoming biography of Updike is tantalizing. There are hints of darker shadows behind the man Martin Amis once called a “psychotic Santa of volubility,” a man who made it all look easy, probably too easy. DWIGHT GARNER
在约翰·厄普代克(John Updike)去世五年后，他似乎非常符合“去世的男性白人作家”这个概念。他很少出现在学术性阅读的书单上。年轻小说家们像60年代的人摒弃父辈的马提尼酒一样摒弃他。人们一致认为，在这场写作马拉松比赛中，他输给了菲利普·罗斯(Philip Roth)，后者在最后几十年里再次发力。我不那么确定，而是更同意伊恩·麦克尤恩(Ian McEwan)的评价：“厄普代克如此广博，如此多样化，如此丰富，在未来很多年里我们都不能充分认识他的价值。”亚当·贝格利(Adam Begley)是个聪明的作家，他即将出版的厄普代克传记很吸引人。我们都注意到厄普代克背后有些阴影，马丁·埃米斯(Martin Amis)曾称他为“健谈、发疯的圣诞老人”，他让一切看起来那么安逸，也许有点太过安逸了。——Dwight Garner
‘OPEN CITY,’ Teju Cole’s 2011 novel, meanders with its narrator, Julius, a young German-Nigerian doctor with a deep reservoir of political and cultural knowledge who takes long walks around New York City, remembering his past and closely observing his present. The book casts a spell that’s hard to classify.
泰茹·科尔(Teju Cole)2011年的小说“开放的城市”(Open City)跟随它的叙述者朱利叶斯(Julius)一起漫步。朱利叶斯是个年轻的德籍尼日利亚医生，他拥有丰富的政治、文化知识，他在纽约市各处长时间漫步，追忆自己的过去，密切观察自己的现在。这本书拥有了一种难以描述的魔力。
Mr. Cole’s novella, “Every Day Is for the Thief,” came out in Nigeria in 2007, and Random House is publishing it here for the first time in March. In it, a Nigerian returns home for a visit and assesses the country and his life through a series of encounters with family and old friends. “Open City” earned its author comparisons to the German writer W. G. Sebald, whose work wanders and ruminates in a similar way. The American edition of “Thief” includes photos that Mr. Cole took in Lagos, a Sebaldian touch that is likely to keep the comparisons coming. JOHN WILLIAMS
科尔的中篇小说《每天都是为了那个贼》(Every Day Is for the Thief)2007年在尼日利亚出版，今年3月兰登书屋将在美国首次出版本书。在这本书中，一个尼日利亚人回故乡短住，在与家人和老友的交往中反思这个国家和自己的人生。《开放的城市》让人们拿科尔和德国作家W·G·西博尔德(W. G. Sebald)比较，后者的作品也同样是漫步和反思。美国版的《每天都是为了那个贼》包括科尔在拉各斯拍的一些照片，这些照片具有西博尔德的格调，很可能会让这种比较继续下去。——John Williams