1. Cape Town, South Africa
1. 南非开普敦
A place to meditate on freedom, and the creative life that followed.
在这里，领悟自由与随之而来的多彩人生。
When Nelson Mandela was incarcerated at Robben Island prison, he found inspiration in Cape Town. “We often looked across Table Bay at the magnificent silhouette of Table Mountain,” he said in a speech. “To us on Robben Island, Table Mountain was a beacon of hope. It represented the mainland to which we knew we would one day return.”
纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)身陷罗本岛监狱期间，从开普敦获得了无穷的鼓舞。“我们经常眺望桌湾对面桌山壮丽的身影，”他在一场演讲中说道，“对于我们这些罗本岛的囚徒，桌山就是希望的灯塔。它代表着我们深知自己总有一天能回去的那片大陆。”
Cape Town’s importance to Mandela, who made his first address there as a free man, will doubtless draw many visitors in the wake of his death. The country has transformed itself since Mandela’s imprisonment, but there’s still much to be done. Many in Cape Town have been grappling with that challenge, including its creative class, which has been examining whether inspired design can solve some of the issues stemming from years of inequality.
在曼德拉心中，开普敦是个举足轻重的地方，他坐了27年牢、重获自由之后的第一场演讲就是在这里举行的。毫无疑问，随着最近曼德拉的离世，以及南非欢庆其真正意义上的民主选举20周年，开普敦会吸引更多的游客。在过去的二十年里，南非就已经有所改变，但需要做的仍有很多。开普敦的许多人都在努力面对挑战，包括创意工作者，他们思考是否可以用充满灵感的设计来改变因多年的歧视政策所造成的问题。
The city formally takes up that issue this year during its turn as World Design Capital. Cape Town is celebrating design in all its forms, putting on fashion shows by students and established designers alike, hosting architecture open houses, welcoming the public into artists’ studios and folding the annual visual arts spectacular Design Indaba conference in February into the design capital program. Also part of the lineup are locals seeking to rejuvenate impoverished black-majority townships: The Maboneng Lalela Project turns township homes into galleries and performance spaces; Foodpods constructs sustainable farms, giving residents access to healthy produce; and the Langa Quarter project seeks to make the precinct a cultural tourism destination.
今年，这座城市正式面对这个难题，它一举改变形象，化身为世界设计之都。开普敦2月份举行的年度设计博览会(Design Indaba)异彩纷呈，成为设计之都的一场视觉盛宴。各种形式的展会与庆典上展出五花八门的设计作品，学生与专业设计师都在时尚舞台上展示魅力，举办建筑开放日活动欢迎观众进入艺术家的工作室。作为盛典的一部分，一些当地人也参展，试图帮助贫穷的、主要是黑人居住的那些小镇焕发青春：Maboneng Lalela项目把当地民居改建成艺术馆和演出场所；Foodpods项目建造了几座可持续发展的农庄，居民由此可以获得健康的农产品；Langa Quarter项目则试图将这片地区变成文化旅游胜地。
Cape Town is again reinventing itself, and the world is invited to its renaissance.— SARAH KHAN
开普敦重新焕发活力，邀请全世界来见证它的复兴。— SARAH KHAN
2. Christchurch, New Zealand
2. 新西兰基督城
The rebirth of a quake-ravaged city.
一个城市的震后重生。
Three years after two large earthquakes devastated central Christchurch, the city is experiencing a rebirth with creativity and wit — thanks to the ingenuity of its hardy residents — and is welcoming tourists back again. Though much of the central city has yet to be rebuilt, entrepreneurs and volunteers are finding surprising ways to make temporary use of empty lots and bring life back to the downtown. The Gap Filler program, begun a couple of months after the first quake in September 2010 and expanded after a more destructive second quake in February 2011, has created an open-air performance space made of blue pallets, a dance floor with coin-operated music and lights, and even a nine-hole mini-golf course in vacant lots across the city. The Greening the Rubble campaign has since the 2010 quake been planting temporary gardens on the sites of demolished buildings. To replace the badly damaged 19th-century ChristChurch Cathedral, a magnificent transitional church by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban opened in August with sturdy cardboard tubes for the roof. Businesses are also trickling back downtown. One bar, built inside shipping containers, has a name that encapsulates the spirit of the entire city: Revival.— JUSTIN BERGMAN
三年前，两场大地震摧毁了基督城的市中心，而今，坚强而智慧的市民们已经凭借创意帮这座城市实现了重生，欢迎游客再次到来。尽管市中心的大多数区域需重建，但企业家和志愿者却让许多空屋派上了令人惊喜的临时用场，为市区带来了勃勃生机。2010年9月，这座城市遭遇了第一次地震，两三个月之后，Gap Filler方案出炉。2011年2月，地震再次来袭，破坏力更大，该项目也随之扩大了规模，现在已经建成了用蓝色地垫组成的露天演艺场与一座用投币控制音乐与灯光的舞厅，甚至在城市对面的空地上建造了一座九孔迷你高尔夫球场。自2010年地震以来，“变废墟为绿地”(Greening the Rubble)运动一直在损毁的房屋遗址上种植花草树木。建于19世纪的基督城大教堂(ChristChurch Cathedral)在地震中夷为平地，2013年8月，日本建筑师坂茂带领人们用坚硬的纸卷撑起屋顶，建起一座壮丽的过渡期教堂。商家也渐渐向闹市区回流。一座在集装箱内建造的酒吧用自己的名字展示了整个城市的精神——苏醒(Revival)。— JUSTIN BERGMAN
3. North Coast, California
3. 美国加州北海岸
A glorious new preserve for the public.
这片新开发的保护区美不胜收。
One hundred and thirty miles north of San Francisco, the moody bluffs of the Mendocino Coast have long been a spectacular place from which to observe marine life: passing humpback whales, sun-happy sea lions, foamy waves strewn with kelp. The incorporation of the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands — nearly 1,300 acres — gives hikers new access to a contiguous 12-mile stretch of coastline and fields of wildflowers, cypress forests and cliff areas (some overlooking dramatic blowholes, pinnacles and sea caves), much of it previously off-limits to the public. And Congressional proposals to include the north coast lands as part of the California Coastal National Monument have been introduced, which would mean better protection and more funds for maintenance; plans also exist to extend the California Coastal Trail through the new preserve.— BONNIE TSUI
旧金山以北130英里处门多西诺(Mendocino)海岸肃穆的悬崖向来是观赏海洋生物的绝佳地点：座头鲸悠然而过，海狮愉快地晒着太阳，浪花里夹杂着海藻。最近，这片海岸将1300英亩的Arena-Stornetta角公地纳入管辖，此后徒步客将能够领略12英里狭长海岸线上的田原、野花、柏树林和绝壁（在有些悬崖上你可以居高临下地观赏鲸鱼喷水孔、海上尖峰与岩洞），其中大部分景观过去是不对公众开放的。专家还向国会提议，将北海岸的土地纳入加州海岸国家保护地(California Coastal National Monument)，这意味着能够申请更优质的保护与更多维护资金，也有人提议将加州海岸步道(California Coastal Trail)延长，穿过这片新保护区。— BONNIE TSUI
4. Albanian Coast
4. 阿尔巴尼亚海滨
On a rugged shore, Europe at its best.
崎岖海岸上绝美的欧罗巴风景。
What if you could combine the rugged beauty you’d find on Croatia’s Dalmatian Coast with the ruins of an undiscovered Turkey or Greece, all wrapped in the easygoing nature characteristic of rural Italy — at a fraction of the cost? Turns out you can, on the coast of Albania. The roughly Maryland-size country, between Greece and Montenegro, sits about 45 miles east of Italy on the eastern shores of the Adriatic and has limestone-ringed beaches, ancient ruins like Butrint and waterfront inns where you can stay for less than $50 a night. Rampant development threatened to turn it all to concrete in the years after Communism, but a new government took office in September on promises of keeping the coast authentic. Head to villages like Qeparo, within sight of Corfu, where you can kayak past Cold War submarine tunnels, swim by abandoned forts and watch the tide rise during a dinner of fresh fish at an inn called the Riviera. This is Europe when it was fresh and cheap.— TIM NEVILLE
能不能只花很少的钱，就同时享受克罗地亚蛮荒的达尔马提亚海岸风光、土耳其或希腊未经发掘的古迹与意大利的安逸氛围？事实证明，在阿尔巴尼亚海岸，你可以做到。阿尔巴尼亚地处希腊与黑山共和国之间，领土面积与美国马里兰州相若，坐落在亚得里亚东海岸意大利以东大约45英里处。这里环绕着石灰岩海滩、布特林特(Butrint)等古代遗址和廉价的海滨客栈，每晚房费不到50美元。共产主义年代的大肆发展几乎要将海岸变成一片水泥森林，但是，9月份新政府上台后，承诺将保持海岸的原生态。游客来到之后可直奔几个渔村，比如位于科孚岛(Corfu)视野之内的Qeparo村，在这里，你可以划着小艇穿过冷战时期的潜艇隧道，或者游过荒废的古堡，在Riviera客栈一边饱餐鲜鱼，一边看潮起潮落。当年欧洲景物新鲜价格低廉的时候，就是这个样子。— TIM NEVILLE
5. Downtown Los Angeles
5. 洛杉矶商业区
Downtown? Really? Yes, thanks to a thriving food scene.
商业区？真的吗？没错，因为这里出现了欣欣向荣的美食城。
Gone is the musty, lifeless, only-open-for-Kings-hockey-games reputation of downtown Los Angeles. While the museums in this corner of the city are thriving (the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art is nearby), the growing dynamism of downtown is the food scene. Most notable is the Grand Central Market, an arcade of over 30 of the best food vendors in the city. Originally built in 1917, the market has been redone in the past year, attracting popular purveyors like G&B Coffee and, soon, Belcampo Meat Co. Just down the street is Alma, which was named the best new restaurant in the country by Bon Appétit magazine. And where there is good food there is good shopping. Stores will be adding cachet to the neighborhood soon; an outlet of the fashion label Acne Studios opened in December, with Aesop, a skin-care specialist, soon to follow. Diners and shoppers alike will soon have a hip place to stay: AnAce Hotel is scheduled to open nearby this month.— DANIELLE PERGAMENT
人们对洛杉矶商业区的老印象——发霉、沉闷，只有洛杉矶国王队比赛时才有活力——已经是过去了。这片区域内的博物馆越来越蓬勃（洛杉矶当代艺术博物馆就在附近），美食图景更是一派欣欣向荣。最有名的中央大市场(Grand Central Market)拱廊里汇聚了全城最好的30多家美食店铺。市场始建于1917年，经过重建，吸引了许多深受欢迎的店家（如G&B咖啡），Belcampo Meat Co.公司也即将入驻。沿街向前走就是Alma餐厅，《好胃口》(Bon Appétit)杂志曾将它评为全国最好的新餐馆。此外，哪里有好餐厅，哪里就有好商场。各种商店在社区内争相开张，12月，时尚品牌Acne Studios将在这里开分店，护肤专营店Aesop也将随之而来。前来吃饭和购物的顾客很快也将有个新潮的住处：本月，这里将新开张一家Ace酒店。— DANIELLE PERGAMENT
6. Namibia
6. 纳米比亚
Africa’s latest conservation success story is a boon for travelers.
近年来非洲在自然保护领域获得的成功是旅行者的福祉。
Namibia’s communal conservancy movement, which pairs sustainable tourism with rural community outreach, has been a much-heralded success: In 2013, the country’s 79 conservancies received the prestigious Gift to the Earth Award from the World Wildlife Fund, and the stunning Namib Sand Sea Desert joined Unesco’s World Heritage list. Options abound for travelers who want to help the effort, including theDesert Rhino Camp, which Wilderness Safaris runs in partnership with the Save the Rhino Trust; the camp directly supports the conservancy, which has reversed dwindling rhino populations. In 2014, Wilderness Safaris also plans to open the Hoanib Skeleton Coast Camp, on the Hoanib River in the north. And Namibia’s Tourism Board is introducing three self-drive routes in 2014 to point visitors toward less-visited parts of the country. — ADAM H. GRAHAM
纳米比亚的全民自然保护运动是一场广受赞扬的胜利。它融合了旅游业的可持续发展和农村社区的扩张，2013年，全国79片自然保护区荣获了一项大奖：世界野生动物基金会授予的“献给地球的礼物”(Gift to the Earth Award)，美轮美奂的纳米布沙海大漠(Namib Sand Sea Desert)也进入了联合国教科文组织的世界遗产名单。如果旅行者也想贡献力量，机会可太多了：大荒漠(Wilderness Safaris)公司与拯救犀牛信托会(Save the Rhino Trust)合作的沙漠犀牛营(Desert Rhino Camp)项目帮助保护自然资源，扭转了犀牛总数日渐减少的局面。2014年，大荒漠打算在北方的Hoanib河流域开设Hoanib骷髅海岸营。纳米比亚旅游局也将在2014年引进三条自驾游路线，引领旅行者深入更多人迹罕至的好地方。— ADAM H. GRAHAM
7. Ecuador
7. 厄瓜多尔
Epic biodiversity, and a newly renovated railway to get you there.
乘坐修整一新的火车，去见识史诗般的奇花异草与珍禽异兽。
Ecuador is famed as the home of the Galápagos, the beloved islands off the coast that feature mind-boggling wildlife — but the mainland is no slouch either. One of the most biodiverse countries in the world, Ecuador has over 1,600 species of birds, 4,000 kinds of orchids, one of the largest condor shelters on the planet — and one-fifth of the country (including the Galápagos) is protected. And there is a new way to see a good chunk of it: the recently refurbished Tren Crucero. The luxury vintage train starts in Quito (the first city ever to be declared a World Heritage site by Unesco) and travels through the Andes, over snow-capped mountains, past volcanoes, around a harrowing turn called the Devil’s Nose and through the countryside until arriving in the bustling city of Guayaquil. The four-day trip includes an excursion to Cotopaxi National Park — a place where you might see deer, wolves, bears or one of those condors. — DANIELLE PERGAMENT
厄瓜多尔享有加拉帕戈斯群岛之家的美名。这片远离海岸的群岛深受喜爱，岛上的亮点是种类惊人的奇花异草与珍禽异兽——但是厄瓜多尔陆地上同样瑰丽，不会让人失望。这是世界上生物多样性最突出的国家之一，拥有1600多种鸟类，4000多种兰花，有地球上最辽阔的秃鹫栖息地之一，五分之一的国土（包括加拉帕戈斯群岛）都划为自然保护区。而今，有一种新的途径让你饱览奇观：乘坐修缮一新的火车进行旅行。豪华火车之旅始于基多(Quito，第一个被联合国教科文组织宣布为世界遗产的城市)，穿越安第斯山脉，翻过雪顶群山，与火山擦肩而过，途经一段名为“魔鬼鼻子”的惊险拐弯路段，驶过田野，最后到达繁华的瓜亚基尔(Guayaquil)。为期四天的火车之旅包括在科托帕希(Cotopaxi)国家公园内的远足，公园里你可以看到鹿、狼、熊和某种秃鹫。— DANIELLE PERGAMENT
8. Quang Binh, Vietnam
8. 越南广平
Now open: One of the world’s largest caves.
现在，世界最大的岩洞之一对外开放了。
Son Doong Cave in the Quang Binh province of central Vietnam is one of the world’s largest caves and is now, for the first time, accessible to tourists, thanks to the tour operator Oxalis. Huge shafts of light penetrate its vast caverns, allowing forests of 100-foot-tall trees to thrive in spaces big enough to accommodate 40-story skyscrapers. Colossal 260-foot stalactites are also present. Monkeys, hornbills and flying foxes have all been spotted in this surreal habitat, first fully explored in 2009. While trips into Son Doong are limited in number (only 220 permits for the year) and to visitors with deep pockets (over $6,000 per trip), the nearby and more affordable Tu Lan Cave is also now open to adventurous travelers.— DAVID LLOYD
越南中部广平省的韩松洞是世界最大的岩洞之一，最近，多亏旅游公司Oxalis的努力，韩松洞向游客开放了。巨大的阳光柱穿透空旷的洞穴，照耀着密林，林中的树木高达100英尺，洞内的空间足以容纳一座40层的摩天大楼，巨型的钟乳石高达260英尺。自从2009年开始彻底的岩洞探索以来，人们在这片梦幻般的栖息地中曾发现过猴子、犀鸟和飞狐的身影。由于进入韩松洞有人数限制（每年只发放220份入洞许可证），价格也相当可观（每次旅行花费6000美元以上），附近的图兰(Tu Lan)洞价格适中，也向爱探险的旅行者开放。— DAVID LLOYD
9. Perth, Australia
9. 澳大利亚珀斯
For Australian panache, go west.
若想领略澳洲的瑰丽，去西部吧。
Perth, the capital of western Australia, has long been feted for its beaches, laid-back vibe and Aboriginal heritage, but lately Australia’s fourth-largest city is exhibiting the signs of a trendy transformation. Regional wine lists? Check. Modish new restaurants in repurposed spaces like stables (the Stables Bar), cottages (the Old Crow) or a printing press building (the Print Hall)? Check. International celebrity chefs including Jamie Oliver, whose Italian spot Jamie’s Italian recently opened? Up-and-coming neighborhoods like Mount Lawley and Northbridge, chockablock with cafes and vintage shops? Check and check. Transformation is evident on a larger scale, too: The Riverside project is infusing the eastern side of the city with parks, shops and housing plazas, while expansion of the new Crown Perth complex includes hotels — Crown Metropol and Crown Promenade — and posh restaurants like Nobu and La Vie Champagne Lounge. And with first- and business-class lounges opening at Los Angeles International Airport this year, the national airline Qantas makes it easy to get Down Under in style. — BAZ DREISINGER
珀斯，西澳大利亚州的首府，长久以来就因碧海银沙、慵懒气息和土著民俗而闻名于世，但是近年来，这座澳大利亚第四大城市呈现出向时尚转型的迹象。有本地红酒产品吗？有。有旧屋改建的新潮餐馆吗？有，譬如马厩改成的马厩吧(Stables Bar)、农舍改成的老乌鸦(Old Crow)和印刷厂改建的印馆(Print Hall)。国际名厨Jamie Oliver是否在此地开张了自己的意大利餐馆Jamie’s Italian？Mount Lawley与Northbridge之类前途无量的街区是否遍布着咖啡馆与古董店？是的是的，都到位了。在大局上也有明显的转型迹象：河岸项目(Riverside project)正在为城市东部增建更多公园、商店和住宅区，同时，珀斯皇冠住宅区新近开张，其中包括多家酒店（Crown Metropol与Crown Promenade酒店）和餐馆（Nobu与La Vie Champagne Lounge）。今年，随着其在洛杉矶国际机场的头等舱和公务舱的休息室投入使用，游客乘坐澳大利亚航空(Qantas)的航班可更轻松时尚地到达澳大利亚和新西兰。— BAZ DREISINGER
10. Rotterdam, the Netherlands
10. 荷兰鹿特丹 
First-class architecture in the Netherlands’ second city.
荷兰第二大城市鹿特丹最棒的建筑。
Post-World War II reconstruction has changed the face of one of Europe’s largest ports, where striking, cubed architecture gives shape to the most modern skyline in the country. But it’s not done yet. This is a banner year for ribbon cuttings to celebrate both new and reconfigured space: An overhaul of Rotterdam Centraal train station (scheduled for completion in March) has already unveiled a new shop-lined pedestrian passageway and the city’s first Starbucks. The renovated Kunsthal museum reopens in February. François Geurds, chef of the two-Michelin-starred restaurant FG, opens another restaurant this month. Come October, the massive arch of the Markthal, whose interior displays 3-D food photographs, becomes the country’s first indoor food hall. Need a launching pad? Check into a brand-new gem: the Rem Koolhaas-designed nhow hotel. — ELISA MALA
“二战”之后的重建已经让欧洲最大的港口之一鹿特丹旧貌换新颜，惊艳的立方建筑为这个国家赋予了最为摩登的天际线。但是精彩还在继续。今年是全新建筑与翻修场所的剪裁落成之年：鹿特丹中央火车站全面大修（预计3月份完工），目前，一条店铺林立的崭新步行街已经揭开帷幕，全市第一家星巴克咖啡馆也已经开业。翻修一新的Kunsthal博物馆2月份重新开放。米其林二星级餐厅FG的主厨François Geurds本月又开了一家餐馆。大型拱廊市场Markthal即将在10月份开张，内部将展示许多3D美食照片，是荷兰第一家室内美食广场。只想好好休息一场？这儿有个好地方：建筑大师Rem Koolhaas设计的nhow酒店。— ELISA MALA
11. Taiwan
11. 台湾
Urban and outdoor pursuits in one (reasonably) compact package.
一场精简的旅行，将都市旅行与户外运动一网打尽。
The traveler who wants to do it all should consider Taiwan. This island, roughly the size of the Netherlands, has an easy-to-navigate public transport network that links a cosmopolitan capital with a bounty of natural and man-made wonders. Taipei, whose robust art scene recently earned its selection as the World Design Capital for 2016, will soon have more places to lay your head: In the coming months the Mandarin Oriental and a boutique hotel from the homegrown bookstore chain Eslite will join the recent arrivals Le Meridien and W. All of these should be a convenient base from which to do some sightseeing on 17 bike trails along the shores of Taipei’s many rivers and inlets or to take a foray into the city’s vibrant street food scene with a nightcap at the reservations-only bespoke bar Alchemy, which opened in 2012 to much acclaim. Four hours south by high-speed rail and bus, 70-square-mile Kenting National Park is home to wetlands, white sands, fishing villages and, starting this year, a ferry point for the deep sea fishing and diving paradise of Orchid Island. Up north in Keelung, a new National Museum of Marine Science and Technology opens this month, part of a revitalization project at Badouzi Harbor, which is linked to nearby headlands by color-coded walking routes. And it all becomes cheaper to get to later this year, with the launch of budget carriers from China Airlines and TransAsia Airways. — ROBYN ECKHARDT
若想收到这样的效果，不妨考虑台湾。这座岛面积与荷兰相若，公共交通系统简明易懂，四通八达，可从国际大都会台北去往多个天然旅游景点与人工胜地。最近，台北市凭借自己雄厚的艺术实力，赢得了2016世界设计之都的桂冠，很快这里将会有更多地方让你流连忘返：不久之后，文华东方酒店及本土连锁诚品书店(Eslite)的精品酒店也将开业，加入不久前开业的寒舍艾美酒店(Le Meridien)和W酒店。从这些住处去往台北沿诸多河岸和水湾修建的17条单车道都很方便，你可以骑车观光，也可以奔赴市内活色生香的美食街。睡前，不妨在Alchemy（必须预约）小酌，这家酒吧从2012年开业以来就好评如潮。搭乘高铁与巴士向南只需四个小时就可来到占地70平方英里的垦丁国家公园，这里有美丽的湿地、白沙滩与小渔村，从今年起，游客还可以乘渡船去往海钓和潜水的天堂——兰屿。在北边的基隆，本月新开张了一家国立海洋科技博物馆，它也是八斗子港口复兴工程的一部分。游客还可沿着彩色的步道，去附近的海边峭壁探险。今年晚些时候，随着中华航空公司与复兴航空廉价航班的推出，去往这些旅游胜地的费用都会更加低廉。— ROBYN ECKHARDT
12. Frankfurt, Germany
12. 德国法兰克福
An infusion of hip night life wakes up a humdrum city.
时尚的夜生活唤醒了沉闷的城市。
Frankfurt, long considered strictly a financial capital and major travel hub, used to land on the culturati map once a year, during its annual book fair. A recent boom of restaurants and clubs, though, makes the case for permanent placement. Leading the city’s transformation is its fast-evolving red light district, where spots like Maxie Eisen, a deli-style cafe by day and a speakeasy-inspired bar by night, offer a sexiness that isn’t unseemly. In the city center, a buzzy pan-Asian restaurant called Moriki was just opened by the Berlin-based chef Duc Ngo with a menu that includes envelope-pushing courses like sushi pizza; and the new sleek Lamoraga, a modern Spanish restaurant, is pulling in the shopping crowds for lunch. By the end of next year, the developer Ardi Goldman plans to reinvent and reopen the famed King Kamehameha Club, which had its original heyday in the 1990s and 2000s. And growth extends to the art world: The 32,000-square-foot underground extension at the Städel Museum earned accolades from around the globe when it opened last year. — GISELA WILLIAMS
长久以来，法兰克福仅被视为金融之都与重要的旅行枢纽，每年书展期间在文化地图上露一次脸。最近几年，城内涌现出的大批餐馆与俱乐部让这个城市的转型尘埃落定。引领转变的是飞速发展的红灯区，比如Maxie Eisen这样地方，白天是个熟食餐馆，晚上就成了地下酒吧，它展现的性感也并非不登大雅之堂。市中心忙碌的泛亚餐馆Moriki是柏林大厨Duc Ngo最近开的，菜肴包括挑战陈规的寿司比萨。新开张的时尚西班牙餐厅Lamoraga吸引购物人潮前来享用午餐。明年年底，开发商Ardi Goldman打算将远近闻名的King Kamehameha Club彻底翻新之后重新开业，这家俱乐部的黄金时代是90年代至本世纪头十年。产业增长也扩展到了艺术领域：去年末，Städel博物馆增建的32000平方英尺的地下展馆正式开张，赢得了来自世界各地的赞誉。— GISELA WILLIAMS
13. Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
13. 埃塞俄比亚，亚的斯亚贝巴
An ambitious art scene heads toward the international stage.
野心勃勃的艺术界走向国际舞台。
Building on a strong historical legacy (Addis boasts one of East Africa’s oldest art schools) are a host of events scheduled for 2014: a photography festival, two film festivals and a jazz and world music festival. Thanks to the city’s diverse art institutions and galleries, including the artist-in-residence village Zoma Contemporary Art Center and the Asni Gallery (really more an art collective than a gallery), there is an art opening at least once a week. Even the local Sheraton puts on “Art of Ethiopia,” an annual show of new talent. But it’s the National Museum that, in May and June, will host this year’s blockbuster exhibit, “Ras Tafari: The Majesty and the Movement,” devoted to Emperor Haile Selassie I and Rastafarianism. — GISELA WILLIAMS
亚的斯亚贝巴不仅有着雄厚的历史遗产（有东非最古老的艺术学校），2014年，它还将举办一系列艺术盛会：一个摄影节、两个电影节、一个爵士及世界音乐节。这座城市有多家风格迥异的艺术机构与美术馆，包括艺术家常驻的艺术村Zoma当代艺术中心及Asni艺术馆（真的，它更像一座艺术精品盛会，而不是展览馆），几乎每个星期就有一场艺术开幕式。甚至本地的喜来登酒店也将举行“埃塞俄比亚艺术展”，这是一场专门展示各界艺术新秀作品的年度盛典。5月至6月，国家博物馆将举办今年最为盛大的展览“塔法里：威严与运动”，主题是皇帝Haile Selassie一世与塔法里教(Rastafarianism)。— GISELA WILLIAMS
14. Fernando de Noronha, Brazil
14. 巴西费尔南多-迪诺罗尼亚群岛
A world-class World Cup getaway.
世界级的世界杯消遣地。
The street parties, samba sessions and festive chaos surrounding the World Cup soccer tournament in Brazil this summer are bound to be exhausting for everyone. When the action’s over, escape to Fernando de Noronha, a 21-island archipelago about 330 miles off the coast of one of the host cities, Recife. Here you’ll find 250-foot-high black cliffs muscling against peach-sand beaches, Portuguese hilltop forts and blue coves where humpbacks and spinner dolphins linger. Only one of the islands, Noronha, is inhabited, and the entire chain is protected as a park with just 246 visitors allowed per day. Regulations have kept Noronha relaxed, with only small hotels and roads rough enough to make dune buggies the rental cars of choice. Hike along cliffs to gorgeous beaches like Sancho, dive with sea turtles or climb Morro do Pico, a 1,059-foot-high volcanic pinnacle. — TIM NEVILLE
这个夏天，围绕世界杯举办的街头派对、桑巴舞会和喧闹的狂欢必将让巴西的每个人都精疲力竭。球赛结束之后，赶紧逃到费尔南多-迪诺罗尼亚群岛吧，这座拥有21座岛屿的群岛距离世界杯举办城市之一累西腓(Recife)的海岸大约330英里远。在这里，你可以见到250英尺高的黑色悬崖反衬着海滩上的桃色细沙与葡萄牙时期的山顶堡垒，座头鲸与飞旋海豚在蔚蓝的港湾里悠闲地游来游去。只有Noronha岛屿有人居住，而整片群岛链都是国家保护公园，每天只允许246名游客进入。在法规的悉心保护之下，Noronha岛的生活十分安逸，岛上仅有几座小酒店和若干条路，由于路况很差，能租赁的只有沙滩车。你可以沿着悬崖徒步旅行，欣赏桑丘(Sancho)等海滩的绝美风光，与海龟一起潜水，或者攀登1059英尺高的Morro do Pico火山。— TIM NEVILLE
15. Nashville, Tenn.
15. 美国田纳西州纳什维尔
Leather jackets and skinny jeans, join cowboy boots.
穿上皮衣和紧身牛仔裤，加入牛仔靴战队。
Country music lovers have long made the pilgrimage to Nashville, but now the city has fast gained cachet among rock fans and foodies. The city’s vibrant scene is home to the Black Keys, Kings of Leon, Jeff the Brotherhood and Diarrhea Planet, who all play in town occasionally. And a youthquake is transforming scruffy neighborhoods like 12South and East Nashville into hipster hubs. New hangouts include Pinewood Social, a bar, restaurant, bowling alley and karaoke joint, and the 404, a restaurant and boutique hotel in a former auto garage. Add to that a thriving culinary scene, exemplified by the Music City Eats Festival, back for a second year in September. And Nashville’s old standbys — like the honky-tonk Tootsie’s Orchid Lounge and the venerable Ryman — are as fun as ever. — STEVEN KURUTZ
长久以来，许多乡村音乐的粉丝曾踏上去往纳什维尔的音乐朝圣之旅，但现在，这座城市在摇滚乐迷与吃货中迅速赢得了声望。它活力十足的氛围催生了“黑键”(Black Keys)、“里昂国王”(Kings of Leon)、“杰夫兄弟”(Jeff the Brotherhood)与“腹泻星球”(Diarrhea Planet)等乐队，他们都不时在城市里演出。一股强劲的青春风潮正将纳什维尔东南12区(12 South and East Nashville)这样的旧街区转变成潮人中心。此地的新丁包括Pinewood Social，这家店既是酒吧、餐馆，又是保龄球馆兼卡拉OK厅。还有404，由车库改建而成的餐厅兼精品酒店。此外，9月份城市音乐美食节第二次在这里举办，必将为这座城市增添欣欣向荣的美食风景线。纳什维尔的那些一直受人喜爱的场所——比如Tootsie’s Orchid Lounge夜总会和古老的Ryman——乐趣依旧。— STEVEN KURUTZ
16. Scotland
16. 苏格兰
New reasons to play, and watch players, in Scotland’s yards.
去苏格兰玩、观看赛事，现在又有了新理由。
Riddled with lochs and crested by moody Highlands, Scotland adds to its already considerable outdoorsy appeal this year. In April, the John Muir Way, named for the conservationist originally from Scotland, will expand to 134 miles from 45 miles, newly spanning the farmland and forests of the country’s midsection. Organizers estimate it will take eight to 12 days on foot or four to six by bike to complete the coast-to-coast route running from Muir’s boyhood hometown Dunbar west to the Loch Lomond area. The attractions extend beyond amateur workouts. This summer, Glasgow will stage the 2014 Commonwealth Games, Olympic-style competitions for Britain and the former British colonies, and in September Gleneagles resort in the Highlands will host the Ryder Cup golf competition. Sports and hospitality will meet at Cromlix House Hotel, a 15-room resort that the tennis champion and local hero Andy Murray plans to open in April in a Victorian mansion in Dunblane. — ELAINE GLUSAC
苏格兰遍布湖泊与肃穆的高地，本就相当具有户外魅力，而今又添一个理由。4月，约翰·穆尔之路（因苏格兰环保活动家约翰·穆尔[John Muir]而得名）的长度将由目前的45英里延长至134英里，新扩展了英国中部一片农田和森林。组织者估测，沿着这条从东海岸到西海岸的路走完全程，步行需要八到十二天，骑车需要四到六天。道路的起点是约翰·穆尔童年生活的地方——罗蒙湖(Loch Lomond)地区东部的邓巴(Dunbar)镇。这种旅行超出了业余爱好者的能力。今年夏天，格拉斯哥将举办2014公益运动会，这场奥林匹克式的赛事只限不列颠及过去英国殖民地的运动员参加。9月，苏格兰高地的格伦伊格尔斯(Gleneagles)度假胜地举办莱德杯高尔夫对抗赛。体育与好客天性将在Cromlix House Hotel酒店完美相融，这座有15间客房的度假村由邓布兰(Dunblane)一座维多利亚风格的楼房改建而成，是本地名人、网球冠军安迪·莫瑞(Andy Murray)的产业，预计在4月份开张。— ELAINE GLUSAC
17. Calgary, Alberta
17. 加拿大亚伯达卡尔加里
An oil boom town gets its cultural legs.
石油新兴城市更具文化内涵。
Flush with oil money, Calgary has morphed from ho-hum city on the prairie into a cultural hub, with offerings far beyond the Stampede, the annual rodeo and festival. Locals stroll over the tubular Peace Bridge, designed by Santiago Calatrava, opened in 2012. Public art is part of life; in 2013 Jaume Plensa completed Wonderland, a 39-foot-tall steel mesh head installed in front of the new skyline-transforming Norman Foster-designed Bow Tower. They join beloved cultural institutions like the One Yellow Rabbit Performance Theater,whose dancer and choreographer Denise Clarke was in December named to the Order of Canada, one of the country’s highest honors. — ELISABETH EAVES
卡尔加里因石油而大富大贵，而现在，大草原上这座昔日的乏味工业城已经变成了文化枢纽，亮点则不止是一年一度的Stampede牛仔节。居民在管状的和平桥(Peace Bridge)上悠闲地走过，这座桥由大师圣地亚哥·卡拉特拉瓦(Santiago Calatrava)设计，2012年通行。公共艺术成了生活的一部分，2013年，西班牙艺术家乔米·普伦萨(Jaume Plensa)完成了他的作品Wonderland，一座39英尺高的钢网结构人头，在它的对面，由建筑大师诺曼．福斯特(Norman Foster)设计的弓楼(Bow Tower)已经成为卡城的新地标。除了它们，深受本地人喜爱的文化机构还有“一只黄兔”剧团(One Yellow Rabbit Performance Theater)，团里的舞蹈演员兼编舞丹尼斯·克拉克(Denise Clarke)在2013年12月荣获加拿大勋章，这是加拿大公民的最高荣誉之一。— ELISABETH EAVES
18. Ishigaki, Japan
18. 日本石垣
Sand and surf, now a (low-cost) hop from Osaka.
金沙与冲浪正值平价，快从大阪飞过来吧。
The yen is the weakest it’s been against the dollar in years — down 25 percent from a year ago — putting Japan more within reach in 2014. For low prices coupled with laid-back attitudes, look way south to the island of Ishigaki, 250 miles south of Okinawa Island and far from the bustle of Tokyo. The 85-square-mile island, largely undiscovered, is home to sunburned surfers, sandy beaches and beautiful coral reefs. And it’s never been easier to reach: A new airport opened here in March 2013, and Japan’s new low-cost carrier, Peach, just began service from Osaka. — INGRID K. WILLIAMS
现在是多年来日元兑美元的最低谷，比起一年前，低了25%。2014年，日本之旅更加容易。让我们把目光投向南边的石垣岛，它距离冲绳南端250英里，远离东京的喧嚣，有着低廉的物价和慵懒的氛围。这座岛屿占地85平方英里，大半未曾发掘，举头一望，只看见麦色皮肤的冲浪健儿、细腻的沙滩和美丽的珊瑚礁。现在来石垣再便捷不过了：2013年3月石垣推出了一座新机场，而日本的新兴廉价航空公司桃子航空刚刚推出了从大阪到石垣的航班。— INGRID K. WILLIAMS
19. Laikipia Plateau, Kenya
19. 肯尼亚，莱基皮亚平原
A pristine slice of biodiversity is home to a new luxury eco-resort.
这片新兴的奢华生态旅游胜地上到处是原始而瑰丽的生物。
Set between Mount Kenya and the Great Rift Valley, the Laikipia Plateau teems with wildlife: elephants, leopards, endangered rhinos and one of the highest concentrations of zebras on the continent. Now the area has also become a conservation success story, sustained and protected through an unusual mix of public and private partnerships and a network of environmentally minded ranchers. With the 2013 opening of Segera, a resort owned by Jochen Zeitz, a German-born executive, there is also a new spot to admire its pristine landscapes. The 50,000-acre property includes an enviable collection of contemporary African art, an organic and solar-powered farm and a wine collection focusing on African labels. And more sustainable travel may be on the horizon: A new national park on the area’s southwestern border has been proposed by the government. — ONDINE COHANE
莱基皮亚平原位于肯尼亚山与东非大裂谷之间，遍布种类繁多的野生动植物：大象、豹子、濒危的犀牛以及非洲大陆最密集的斑马群。而今，这片草原成了环保传奇，公众、私人公司与一群关注环保的牧场主齐心协力地维持、保护着它。2013年，生于德国的高管约亨·蔡茨(Jochen Zeitz)所拥有的度假胜地Segera正式开业，游客有了领略草原蛮荒之美的新地方。这片50000公顷的庄园收集了令人艳羡的当代非洲艺术精品，还拥有一座有机太阳能农场与非洲品牌的精品红酒系列。更加环境友好的旅行指日可待：政府已经提议在这片地区的东南边界建造一座崭新的国家公园。— ONDINE COHANE
20. Yogyakarta, Indonesia
20. 印度尼西亚，日惹
A volcano, a temple, a shrine and now a place to stay.
火山、佛寺、神庙，而今是旅人驻足的地方。
This central Javan sultanate draws crowds for its proximity to bewitching attractions: the monumental, wedding cake-esque Buddhist temple Borobudur, the soft-serve-ice-cream-shaped Hindu shrines of Prambanan, and pre-sunrise hikes to summit Indonesia’s friskiest volcano, Mount Merapi (which most recently erupted in 2013). But finding a decent room has never been easy, until now. Thanks to tax breaks for hotel development, 20 new starred hotels, to complement the city’s existing 30, will open through 2015. Among them are Zest Hotel (a Swiss-Belhotel brand) in 2014 and, according to a director of the Tourism Promotion Agency of Yogyakarta, three new properties from Accor, whose brands include Sofitel and ibis. — SANJAY SURANA
爪哇岛上这片伊斯兰领地因临近多个迷人的旅游景点而吸引了大批游客：造型如结婚蛋糕的壮丽佛塔婆罗浮屠(Borobudur)、造型如软冰激凌的印度教神庙普兰巴南(Prambanan)，日出前还可去往印尼最活跃的默拉皮火山（Merapi，最近一次爆发是在2013年）徒步登顶。但想找一个体面的住处从来不容易，直到最近，多亏酒店业的税收减免政策，目前日惹已有30家酒店，从现在到2015年，还将有20家星级新酒店开张，包括2014年开业的泽斯特酒店（Zest Hotel，是Swiss-Belhotel酒店集团旗下品牌）。根据日惹旅游促进局一位负责人的说法，拥有Sofitel与ibis品牌的法国雅高酒店集团(Accor)将会新开三家酒店。— SANJAY SURANA
21. Tahoe, Calif.
21. 美国加州太皓湖
A ski area spruces up with new terrain, lodging and an entire base village.
滑雪胜地新建了雪道、酒店和设施齐全的基地村，旧貌换新颜。
For decades Northstar-at-Tahoe, on the north end of Lake Tahoe, was a mostly overlooked ski hill. Since 2004, however, more than $1 billion has poured into the resort. Though weather in the region has been fickle so far this season, the improvements are impressive. And they aren’t limited to the base village that has risen at the renamed Northstar, centered around a huge ice rink ringed by couches and fire pits. The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Tahoe opened a few years ago, and Vail Resorts, since buying the ski resort in late 2010, has built an on-mountain day lodge, added more terrain and installed the new Promised Land Express lift on the resort’s Backside. Tahoe is resurgent, as resorts from Squaw Valley to Homewood undertake improvements with an eye toward bidding for the 2026 Winter Olympics. In the next few years expect to see everything from the Cal Neva Resort, once owned by Frank Sinatra, open after a big renovation, to a South Lake Tahoe with new waterfront hotels. — CHRISTOPHER SOLOMON
数十年来，太浩湖北端的太浩北极星(Northstar-at-Tahoe)山滑雪场总被忽视。但从2004年起，10亿美元的投资源源不断地注入这片滑雪场。尽管这片雪山在今年滑雪季的气候一直变化无常，但是新工程还是让人刮目相看。改进项目不仅包括基地村。村庄中心有一座巨大的溜冰场，周围是沙发与篝火坑，村名改为北极星(Northstar)之后村子就兴旺起来了。太浩湖几年前开业的丽思卡尔顿酒店(Ritz-Carlton)和2010年下半年收购了这片滑雪场的威尔度假村(Vail Resorts) 在山上新建了一座日间住宿小屋、新增了一些地形，后山安装了乐土快速电梯(Promised Land Express)。太浩湖地区正在复苏，斯阔谷(Squaw Valley)与Homewood等度假村都在努力改进，试图申办2026年冬奥会。几年之后，人们会见到一座尽善尽美的Cal Neva Resort，这座度假村过去属于歌手弗兰克·辛纳塔(Frank Sinatra)，经过一场大规模的改建翻新之后，它将新增若干水滨酒店，在南太浩湖地区重出江湖。— CHRISTOPHER SOLOMON
22. Yorkshire, England
22. 英格兰约克郡
A photogenic (and historic) ale trail.
风景如画（而且有历史意义的）的麦酒之路。
The sprawling northern county of Yorkshire is becoming a big destination for beer lovers, thanks to a recently published guidebook called “Great Yorkshire Beer” and a renewed interest in historic breweries like Samuel Smith (founded in 1758) and Timothy Taylor (from 1858). Spend an evening crawling through the Fat Cat, the Kelham Island Tavern and other award-winning pubs in Sheffield — recently called Britain’s best beer city by the connoisseur Adrian Tierney-Jones — then travel to Leeds, whose compact center is home to the Victoria Hotel, the Cross Keys and other public houses that pull pints on traditional hand pumps. A final stay in the photogenic city of York offers a Tudor-style pub at the end of every cobbled lane, as well as modern beer temples like York Tap, Pivni and the House of Trembling Madness. — EVAN RAIL
由于最近出版的啤酒指南——《伟大的约克郡啤酒》(Great Yorkshire Beer)，英国北部的约克郡成了啤酒爱好者的热门旅游胜地，参观史上著名酿酒厂（比如1758年建厂的Samuel Smith、1858年建厂的Timothy Taylor）的热潮也卷土重来。最近，品酒专家阿德里安·蒂尔尼-琼斯(Adrian Tierney-Jones)将谢菲尔德评为不列颠最佳啤酒城，所以游客可以先去谢菲尔德一些备受赞誉的酒吧（比如Fat Cat与Kelham Island Tavern）消遣一个夜晚，然后旅行至利兹市，它紧凑的市中心有几座酒吧，如Victoria Hotel和Cross Keys倒酒时都使用传统的手泵。在风景如画的约克郡做最后的停留，可以去每一个卵石铺就的小巷尽头找一家都铎式客栈，或者走进摩登的啤酒馆，比如York Tap、Pivni及House of Trembling Madness。— EVAN RAIL
23. Dubai
23. 阿联酋迪拜
Reborn, relentless and still over the top.
这座劫后重生的城市从不止步，魅力依然。
Five years ago, one of the planet’s most ambitious cities appeared to be dying. Crushed with debt, Dubai found its megaprojects and skyscrapers scuttled or scrapped. The city went from juggernaut to joke. But now, it’s back. Economically surging, Dubai has won its bid to host World Expo 2020 and has unveiled its Tourism Vision, also for 2020, a plan to attract 20 million tourists — double the current crowd. October witnessed the first passenger terminal at Dubai World Central Al Maktoum International Airport, and travelers will discover colossal new hotels like the 555-room Conrad Dubai and the 77-story JW Marriott Marquis Dubai, which Guinness World Records recognizes as the tallest hotel in the world. This year, a new tram system will be inaugurated, along with some theme parks, including the first phase of Dubai Adventure Studios, the first phase of IMG Worlds of Adventure, and Holy Quran Park (devoted to the Islamic holy book). — SETH SHERWOOD
五年前，地球上最具野心的城市之一迪拜貌似到了生死关头。由于债务缠身，迪拜的许多大型项目或摩天大楼都已烂尾或废弃。这座城市从世界的主宰变成了个笑话。但现在，它已经满血复活了。随着经济增长，它赢得了2020年世博会的主办权，又公布了2020年的旅游愿景，打算吸引二千万名游客，达到目前游客流量的两倍。2013年10月份，迪拜世界中心阿尔马克图姆国际机场建成了第一座航站楼，游客走出大门，映入眼帘的是宏大的新酒店，比如有555间客房的康莱德迪拜酒店(Conrad Dubai)和77层高的万豪侯爵酒店(JW Marriott Marquis Dubai)，后者被吉尼斯世界纪录认定为全世界最高的酒店。今年，一套全新的电车系统将会投入使用，同期开通的还有几座主题公园，包括迪拜探险工作室一期、IMG冒险世界一期以及古兰经公园。— SETH SHERWOOD
24. The Vatican
24. 梵蒂冈
New saints, a new(ish) pope and newly restored treasures beckon.
新圣徒、新教皇和修复的珍宝召唤着我们。
Pope Francis, who has nearly 3.5 million followers on Twitter and routinely makes headlines for doing things like inviting atheists to join the cause for peace in his Christmas message, is widely viewed as reinvigorating the scandal-plagued, conservative-leaning Roman Catholic Church. (Just ask Time magazine, which last month named him the 2013 Person of the Year.) The first South American pope is so popular that the Vatican is anticipating record pilgrim attendance at its celebrations this year. Well over a million visitors are expected in April when Holy Week will be followed by the canonization of John XXIII and John Paul II. Services commemorating the new saints will continue throughout the year. In 2014, the faithful can also enjoy the fruits of restorations that have taken years, like that of Bernini’s colonnade in St. Peter’s Square and the reopening of the Via Triumphalis necropolis, a vast ancient Roman cemetery first uncovered in the 1950s. And pilgrims can stay up-to-date on news and events, including restorations and exhibitions, thanks to the Pope’s new mobile app. — KATIE PARLA
教皇方济各(Pope Francis)在推特上有将近350万粉丝，经常因行事独特而登上报纸的头条，比如在圣诞致辞中邀请无神论者共促和平大业，人们普遍认为他在努力振兴最近几年丑闻缠身的保守派罗马天主教会。（12月份，《时代》杂志还把他评为2013年度人物。问问他们吧。）方济各是第一位出身于南美的教皇，由于深受欢迎，今年去梵蒂冈参加各种庆典的朝圣人数有望破纪录。预计4月份会有超过一百万名的游客参加圣周及其后的约翰二十三世(John XXIII)及约翰·保罗二世(John Paul II)的封圣典礼。为庆祝新圣徒而举办的宗教活动将持续整年。2014年，虔诚的信徒还可以享受耗时数年之久的文物修复工程的劳动成果：圣彼得广场上贝尔尼尼的柱廊以及重新开放的凯旋大道公墓(Via Triumphalis)，这片古罗马时期的大型墓地群初次发掘于20世纪50年代。有了教皇的手机应用，朝圣者可以随时了解梵蒂冈的最新动态，包括文物修复与展览活动。— KATIE PARLA
25. Uruguayan Riviera
25. 乌拉圭，里维埃拉
South American beach towns, before they go upscale.
南美海滨小镇，物价还没涨。
Around glamorous Punta del Este and boho-chic José Ignacio, there’s no deficiency of boutique hotels, expat art galleries and exclusive waterfront brasseries. But farther east along the Uruguayan Riviera, a relatively untrodden stretch of Atlantic coast tucked between Argentina and Brazil, sun, sand and simplicity remain the draw — for now. In the Rocha region, villages like Cabo Polonio, La Pedrera, San Antonio and Punta del Diablo are just starting to attract serious international attention, bringing a sprinkling of first-rate accommodation — like Brisas, a clifftop 14-room inn restored by an Argentine tech mogul — without compromising the area’s natural charms: miles of undeveloped beach, rolling pastures and a culture where gaucho cowboys and fishermen with wooden boats aren’t just props. — REMY SCALZA
在光芒四射的埃斯特角城(Punta del Este)与放荡不羁的何塞伊格纳西奥(José Ignacio)附近，永远不缺少精品酒店、侨民艺术馆和私人水滨酒吧。但是沿着乌拉圭的里维埃拉一路向东，阿根廷与巴西之间隐藏着一段游人较少的大西洋海岸，此地的阳光、细沙与单纯的生活深深吸引了我们，至少目前如此。在Rocha，Cabo Polonio、La Pedrera、San Antonio与Punta del Diablo等区域刚刚开始吸引海外游客的渔村内有一流的住宿，比如悬崖顶上的Brisas客栈，它有14间客房，由一位阿根廷科技大亨用古屋改建而成，周围的天然美景没有遭到任何破害：绵延数英里的纯净沙滩、起伏的草地与异域风情的文化，在这里，高乔族牛仔与划着木舟的渔夫不仅仅是村里的顶梁柱，也是风景的一部分。— REMY SCALZA
26. Chennai, India
26. 印度，金奈
A cultural capital springs to life.
文化之都生机盎然。
Chennai, in the state of Tamil Nadu (and formerly known as Madras), was long considered the gateway to popular South Indian tourist destinations like Kerala but was overlooked as an attraction itself. It is, however, a national cultural capital and home to several dance and music schools like Kalakshetra for dance and the Music Academy for Carnatic South Indian music, which both regularly hold performances around town. There are also historic sites aplenty, including the Kapaleeswarar Temple, built in the name of the Hindu god Shiva. Fresh buzz makes this city especially enticing: Several major hotels including the Park Hyatt have recently opened, and there is a slew of new and trendy clubs, boutiques and restaurants, including Ottimo for excellent pizzas. — SHIVANI VORA
金奈过去叫马德拉斯(Madras)，位于印度泰米尔纳德邦(Tamil Nadu)，长期以来被视为通向南印度大热旅游区喀拉拉邦(Kerala)的大门，其本身的吸引力却被低估。它是全国的文化之都，有七所舞蹈与音乐学校，比如Kalakshetra舞蹈学校、专注于南印度卡纳蒂克音乐的音乐学院，两所学校都定期在城里各处演出。这里还有许多名胜古迹，包括供奉印度教湿婆神的格巴利斯瓦拉(Kapaleeswarar)神庙。新鲜事物让这座城市格外迷人：最近新开了几座大酒店（比如Park Hyatt）、时尚酒吧、精品店及餐馆，其中Ottimo的比萨特别美味。— SHIVANI VORA
27. Seychelles
27.  塞舌尔群岛
An African luxury hot spot that’s become easier to get to.
奢华的非洲旅游热点，而今更容易抵达了。
This archipelago of 115 islands in the Indian Ocean now has one of the world’s most expensive hotels. The listed price for a villa at the North Island resort, on a private island where the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge stayed during their honeymoon, ranges from 2,582 to 4,079 euros (about $3,670 to $5,800) per night; the Doubletree by Hilton Seychelles, which opened last year is, thankfully, more affordable. The appeal goes beyond pampering and powdery beaches: The Seychelles is also home to some 100,000 giant Aldabra tortoises that live on a coral atoll that is a Unesco World Heritage site. Air Seychelles recently signed code-share agreements with Air Berlin, Cathay Pacific Airways and other airlines, making these islands about 1,000 miles off the east coast of Africa more accessible. — RACHEL B. DOYLE
现在，印度洋中这片由115座岛屿组成的群岛有着世界上最贵的酒店。英国的剑桥公爵与剑桥公爵夫人（即威廉与凯特）的蜜月是在北岛度假区一座私人小岛上度过的，岛上别墅的报价是每晚2582至4079欧元（大约3670至5800美元）。幸好，去年开业的希尔顿逸林酒店(Doubletree by Hilton Seychelles)价格低得多。此地的魅力不止是柔软而细腻的沙滩。塞舌尔群岛的亚达伯拉(Aldabra)环礁上生活着约十万只巨大的象龟，这片珊瑚环礁是联合国教科文组织所认定的世界遗产。塞舌尔航空最近与柏林航空、国泰航空以及其他航空公司签订了代码共享协议，从此，抵达这片距离非洲东海岸1000英里的群岛将更加容易。— RACHEL B. DOYLE
28. Krabi, Thailand
28. 泰国，甲米府
A Phuket-like hideaway, but still unspoiled.
这片隐逸的乐土颇似普吉岛，但未遭破坏。
The southern Thailand town of Krabi lies just a 45-minute boat ride across the Andaman Sea from Phuket. But you can spare yourself the trip to Phuket — plenty of riches lie here, and you don’t have to fight the crowds to enjoy them. Krabi sits next to the Mu Koh Lanta National Park, a prime spot for hiking, rock climbing and elephant trekking. If you do get restless, there are about 130 pristine islands nearby that are ripe for exploration and virtually undeveloped save for a few ancient monasteries. And Krabi, which used to have few options for accommodations and was hard to get to, is now more tourist-friendly. A number of hotels have opened in recent years, including Phulay Bay, a Ritz-Carlton property. A marina, Port Takola, is in the works and will be home to restaurants, night life and shopping, and a new terminal that has opened at Krabi Airport means that there are more flights to and from this gem. — SHIVANI VORA
泰国南部小镇甲米府与普吉岛隔海相望，中间的安德曼海只需乘船45分钟即可跨越。但普吉岛不必去了。那里躺着太多的有钱人，你何必跟众人争抢美景？甲米府旁边是兰塔岛(Mu Koh Lanta)国家公园，在这片纯净的公园里，你可以徒步、攀岩或者骑象旅行。如果你确实心神不宁，附近有130座原生态的岛屿非常适合静心游览，上面只有几座古寺。甲米府过去住宿条件欠佳，交通不畅，而现在已经变得更加便利了。最近几年开张了许多新酒店，包括丽嘉集团的普雷湾(Phulay Bay)度假村。Port Takola港口正在修建，完工之后将会涌现出一批餐厅、夜店与购物中心。甲米府机场新增一座航站楼，这意味着从此有更多航班往返这片乐土。— SHIVANI VORA
29. Aspen, Colo.
29.  美国科罗拉多州阿斯本
Ditch those poles. Art and bike trails await.
躲开那些杆子。大量的艺术品以及单车道都等在前方。
This ski town has a big development off-piste: The long-awaited reinvented Aspen Art Museum will open its doors this summer. The 33,000-square-foot space, designed by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban, is meant to reflect the mountain experience. Visitors first take a lift to the roof and take in the view from the sculpture garden before descending to tour the galleries. There is also plenty of news for outdoor types this year, too, with new mountain biking trails planned throughout Aspen and Snowmass, a new mountain skills center and expanded lift-serviced biking. — BONNIE TSUI
这座滑雪镇在滑雪之外也有大发展：今年夏天，期待已久的阿斯本艺术博物馆将在彻底改建之后重新开馆。占地33000平方英尺的场馆由日本建筑师坂茂设计，旨在展现爬山体验。游客先坐电梯上屋顶，从屋顶的雕塑公园展望风光，然后再下来游览各个画廊。今年也有许多关于户外运动的好消息，从阿斯本到斯诺马斯地区都在新修山地骑行道，还将新建一座山地特技中心，扩建一条配备了电梯的单车道。— BONNIE TSUI
30. Highlands, Iceland
30.  冰岛高地
Natural wonders are in danger. Go see them before it’s too late.
天然奇景濒临灭绝。快去看吧，不然就来不及了。
The Icelandic government has spent decades protecting its glaciers, pools, ponds, lakes, marshes and permafrost mounds in the Thjorsarver Wetlands, part of the central highlands, which constitute some 40 percent of the entire country, mostly in the interior. But last year, the government announced plans to revoke those protections, allowing for the construction of hydropower plants (instead of glaciers and free-flowing rivers, imagine man-made reservoirs, dams, paved roads and power lines). “If they get into this area, there will be no way to stop them from destroying the wetlands completely,” said Arni Finnsson, the chairman of the Iceland Nature Conservation Association. More bad news looms: A law intending to further repeal conservation efforts has been put forward, so if you ever want to see Iceland in all of its famously raw natural beauty, go now. — DANIELLE PERGAMENT
冰岛政府花费了数十年时间保护中央高地上Thjorsarver湿地的冰川、湖泊、池塘、沼泽与永冻丘陵，这片高地占据了国土面积的40%左右，大部分都在内陆。然而去年，政府宣布打算废除部分保护性法规，允许建造水电站（想象一下吧，那里不再只有冰川与自由奔流的江河，而是充斥着人造的水库、堤坝、平整的道路和电线）。“一旦他们踏入这片地区，我们就无法阻止他们彻底毁掉湿地的脚步。”冰岛自然保护协会主席阿尔尼·芬森(Arni Finnsson)说。还有更多噩耗即将来临：一项意在废除更多环保政策的提案已经提交。所以，如果你想亲眼目睹冰岛闻名于世的天然美景，现在就出发吧。— DANIELLE PERGAMENT
31. Umea, Sweden
31. 瑞典，于默奥
Soundscapes and culture shine in northern Sweden.
瑞典北部的音乐风景线与文化之光。
A hotbed of hardcore and heavy metal music through the 1990s, this northern city will welcome all genres during its tenure as a European Capital of Culture this year. Music will take center stage at outdoor opera performances, a crowdsourced music festival and an orchestral tribute to the local hardcore band Refused. Visual arts focused on the culture of indigenous Sami people will be exhibited at Bildmuseet, the city’s contemporary arts museum that reopened in 2012 in a glass-and-wood building designed by Henning Larsen Architects. And it’s all easier to reach thanks to a new higher-speed rail connection from Stockholm. — INGRID K. WILLIAMS
从20世纪90年代以来，瑞典北部城市于默奥就是硬核与重金属音乐的温床，今年，在它担任欧洲文化之都期间，将欢迎各种艺术流派。无论是户外戏剧表演、人山人海的音乐节和一支向本地硬核乐队“Refused”致敬的管弦乐队，舞台的焦点都是音乐。于默奥当代艺术博物馆Bildmuseet内将举行本土萨米人文化视觉艺术主题展，这座于2012年重新开放的艺术馆是一座玻璃木头结构的建筑，由亨宁·拉森建筑事务所(Henning Larsen)设计。最近，一条到斯德哥尔摩的新高铁线路开通了，游客来这儿更容易了。— INGRID K. WILLIAMS
32. Xishuangbanna, China
32. 中国西双版纳
Skip smog-choked cities — and face masks — and head out to China’s wild frontier.
躲开雾霾笼罩的都市与口罩，去往中国蛮荒的边疆。
With pollution skyrocketing in China’s showcase cities, visitors to the country are increasingly seeking out greener pastures to explore. Set deep in the tropics of southern Yunnan province, Xishuangbanna is about as lush as you can get — the region boasts the richest biodiversity in China, including some of the country’s last wild elephants. Last February, the area went upscale with its first five-star hotel — the Anantara Xishuangbanna Resort & Spa, which organizes tea-leaf picking trips in mountainside plantations. More action-oriented experiences are possible, as well, such as the tour group WildChina’s jungle biking trips or treks along the caravan route plied by tea traders centuries ago. — JUSTIN BERGMAN
中国的各大招牌城市污染日益严重，越来越多的游客想在这个国家探寻更加翠绿的地方。中国南部云南省的西双版纳深藏于热带地区，与你渴望的一样青翠。这里有中国种类最丰富的动植物，包括几种濒危的中国野象。去年2月，本地第一座五星级酒店西双版纳安纳塔拉度假酒店开始营业，整片地区顿时上了一个档次。该酒店可以组织山茶园采摘之旅，游客还可领略更多行动导向的体验，比如旅行公司WildChina组织的丛林单车骑行之旅，或者沿着几百年前商人赶着大篷车曾经走过的茶马古道旅行。— JUSTIN BERGMAN
33. Andermatt, Switzerland
33.  瑞士安德马特
A mountain makeover from overlooked to opulent.
雪山旧貌换新颜，从默默无闻到欣欣向荣。
Andermatt has long been a quiet town of Alpine farmers and bargain-seeking skiers. But this winter, the former Swiss Army outpost began its transformation into a bona fide ski destination with the opening last month of the Chedi Andermatt. The 104-room resort, housed in a modernized chalet with a Japanese restaurant among several dining options, indoor and outdoor pools and a 10-treatment-room spa, is just the first phase of a big new development of apartment buildings, homes, five more hotels and a golf course in the coming year over 321 acres. The pedestrian village will offer skiers access by gondola to the nearly 9,800-foot Gemsstock Mountain, with future lifts to the larger nearby ski area of Sedrun planned to open in 2015. — ELAINE GLUSAC
安德马特一直是个宁静的小镇，出现在这里的只有阿尔卑斯山农民与寻找廉价游玩项目的滑雪爱好者。但去年冬天，随着12月份安德马特切蒂酒店(Chedi Andermatt)的开业，这个瑞士军事的前哨战开始转型为一个名副其实的滑雪胜地。这座度假酒店位于现代化的森林木屋中，有104间客房、一家菜肴丰盛的日本料理、室内和露天泳池及十个有疗愈功能的水疗馆，而且这仅仅是一期工程，等到2014年整个大型项目完工之后，将会包含公寓楼、住宅、另外五座酒店和一座高尔夫球场，总面积超过321公顷。在步行村，滑雪爱好者可乘坐缆车，到达附近9800英尺高的Gemsstock山。按照规划，附近规模更大的Sedrun滑雪场将在2015年开业，从安德马特乘坐电梯即可抵达。— ELAINE GLUSAC
34. Indianapolis
34. 美国印第安纳波利斯
In the land of cars, cycling (and culture) get the limelight.
在汽车王国，自行车（与骑行文化）受到了瞩目。
An urban cycling model has arrived in Indianapolis: the new $63 million, eight-mile bike-friendly Indy Cultural Trail. The path connects five downtown neighborhoods, including arty Fountain Square, to top downtown sites, including the Capitol Building, City Market and White River State Park, a 250-acre park that hosts the Indianapolis Zoo and six more major attractions. Bicycles can be rented along the paved and lighted pathway, allowing riders to cruise past public art, including a motion-activated fireflylike swarm of LED lights. City officials say that planners from Cologne, Germany, to Portland, Ore., have come to see how the city most famous for a 500-mile car race managed to swap auto for bike lanes and still keep everything rolling smoothly. — ELAINE GLUSAC
印第安纳波利斯出现了一个都市骑行模范：耗资6300万美元新修的8英里长的印地文化步道。这条步道连通了五个繁华街区（包括艺术气息浓厚的Fountain Square）与闹市区若干一流的公共场所，包括州议会大厦、City Market和白河州立公园，这座250公顷的公园内有印第安纳波利斯动物园和另外六个重要的旅游景点。在平整的路灯道旁有自行车租赁，骑行客可以一路骑车巡游，游览公共艺术，比如一组萤火虫般的动画风格彩灯。该市的官员说，城市规划师们从俄勒冈波特兰、德国科隆等地前来，研究这座曾以500英里汽车赛道闻名的城市是如何让位给骑行道的，而且过渡得如此行云流水。— ELAINE GLUSAC
35. Mekong River
35. 湄公河
River cruising swells on the Danube of Asia.
湄公河上美妙的巡游。这条河堪称亚洲的多瑙河。
Like the Danube in Europe, the Mekong River in Southeast Asia has become a vital river cruising course, with a variety of small-ship itineraries linking Vietnam and Cambodia. Late last year, Pandaw River Expeditions upgraded two of its ships, the Mekong Pandaw and Tonle Pandaw, enlarging public spaces, adding gyms and stocking cabins with iPads. In 2012, the company launched the 32-guest Angkor Pandaw, offering three- to seven-night itineraries, while Avalon Waterways set the 32-passenger Avalon Angkor sailing between Ho Chi Minh City and Siem Reap over seven nights. Next August, Aqua Expeditions will introduce the 20-suite Aqua Mekong, offering guide-led shore excursions to temples, villages and wildlife-rich areas via skiffs. — ELAINE GLUSAC
湄公河之于东南亚，正如多瑙河之于欧洲，已经成为至关重要的河流巡游路线。越南与柬埔寨之间有多条小型轮船旅游航线。去年末，Pandaw River Expedition公司升级了两艘轮船——Mekong Pandaw号与Tonle Pandaw号，拓宽了船上的公共空间，增设了健身房与配备iPad的舱位。2012年，该公司能容纳32名乘客的Angkor Pandaw号起航，旅客可选择三至七个夜晚的旅行路线，而Avalon Waterways公司能容纳32名乘客的Avalon Angkor号在越南胡志明市与柬埔寨暹粒省之间通行，一次航程超过七天。今年8月，Aqua Expeditions公司将引进含20间套房的Aqua Mekong号，提供有导游带领的河岸旅行，游客可乘坐小艇，观赏佛寺、渔村与种类繁多的野生动植物。— ELAINE GLUSAC
36. Athens
36.雅典
Out of an economic crisis, a city surges back.
经历经济危机之后，雅典东山再起。
Vibrancy and innovation can bloom even in hard times. Exhibit A is Greece’s ancient capital, which was hit hard by the global economic crisis and yet is seeing change at sites old and new. First the old: At the Acropolis, the famous Caryatids statues continue to get a restoration in 2014; the process will be on view in the Acropolis Museum through the end of the year. And the new: The National Museum of Contemporary Art opens this spring in a former brewery complex. Neighborhoods have also seen a resurgence, including the quickly gentrifying Monastiraki and the still gritty Kerameikos-Metaxourgeio; the latter will get a cultural lift in 2015 from the biannual ReMap art event. Travelers will have a new lodging option by summer, when a revived Emporikon Hotel opens on Aiolou, a street that is also home to a host of new dining spots. — GISELA WILLIAMS
哪怕是艰难时世，也有活力与创新绽放。证据：希腊的古老都城雅典遭受了全球经济危机的重创，但它的景点无论新旧都在寻求变革。先说旧景点：2014年，雅典卫城的女像柱继续修缮；雅典卫城博物馆将展示修缮过程，直到2014年底。新景点：国家当代艺术博物馆春天开馆，它的原址是一座酒厂。社区也在振兴之中，包括飞速改善的Monastiraki 与仍然质朴的Kerameikos-Metaxourgeio社区，后者将在2015年举办两年一度的ReMap艺术节，由此获得文化领域的飞跃。今年夏天，游客将有更多住宿选择，Emporikon Hotel酒店将在Aiolou街道装修一新之后再次开业，这条大街上还将有许多餐厅相继开张。— GISELA WILLIAMS
37. Barahona, Dominican Republic
37. 多米尼加共和国，巴拉奥纳
A scenic, low-key destination on the verge of discovery.
刚刚发现的旅游胜地，绝美却低调。
Most vacationers to La Republica hole up in the all-inclusives north and east, overlooking the rarely traveled southwest. The port town of Barahona is the gateway to the cactus-strewn region’s riches, like the hauntingly beautiful Bahia de las Aguilas beach and the eight climate zones at the geological depression Hoyo de Pelempito, both blissfully devoid of people. But there are signs of the government’s vision to develop the area. The abandoned former Barcelo Bahoruco Beach Resort will partly open in 2014, and two separate 300-room projects — near La Canoa and San Rafael Beach — are in the final stages of design approval. For now, you can experience the quiet life at the thatch-roofed Casa Bonita, or at Rancho Platon, which has a tree house raised between the palms. — SANJAY SURANA
来这个共和国度假的人大多是去包罗万象的北部与东部，忽视了少有人去的西南。从港口小镇巴拉奥纳出发，可以通向仙人掌丛生之地的天然瑰宝，比如Bahia de las Aguilas海滩，美得让让人梦萦魂牵；Hoyo de Pelempito洼地横跨八种气候。而且庆幸的是，两个地方游人都很少。但也有些迹象能看到政府对这片地区旅游业发展的雄心。一度荒废的Barcelo Bahoruco海滩度假村将在2014年部分开放，另外两个单独的地产项目各有300间客房，距离La Canoa和San Rafael海滩很近，已经进入了设计审定的最后阶段。而今，你可以在茅草覆顶的Casa Bonita客栈感受宁静的生活，或者下榻在棕榈林中的树屋客栈Rancho Platon。— SANJAY SURANA
38. Arctic Circle
38. 北极圈
Chasing the northern lights? This might be the year.
想要追逐极光？就今年吧。
There aren’t many reasons to visit the frigid region surrounding the North Pole, but the coming months offer the most stunning of them: Some are predicting a double peaking of maximum solar activity, which usually means especially dramatic northern lights, that colorful spectacle of solar particles entering our atmosphere. And there are some comfortable ways to see them, thanks to hotels offering northern lights safaris, including the newly opened Ion Luxury Adventure Hotel in Iceland and the Icehotel in Swedish Lapland (and actually within the Arctic Circle). — GISELA WILLIAMS
没有太多理由让人想去造访严寒的北极圈，但是很快你会大开眼界：有人预测在未来的几个月内，太阳活动强度将达到平时的两倍，这常常意味着极其强烈的北极光——太阳粒子进入大气层之后产生的缤纷奇观。想要抵达北极圈，有几种舒适的方式。值得庆幸的是，有些酒店提供北极光之旅，包括新开业的冰岛Ion Luxury Adventure Hotel和瑞典拉普兰（真的位于北极圈内）的Icehotel。— GISELA WILLIAMS
39. Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
39.  坦桑尼亚，达累斯萨拉姆
On the African coast, music thrives in a commercial capital.
音乐在非洲海岸的商业之都欣欣向荣。
Tanzania may be best known for the snow-capped peaks of Mount Kilimanjaro and the game-packed plains of the Serengeti, but the real pulse of the country is found in its largest city, Dar es Salaam. An eclectic mix of music echoes through the beach clubs, open-air bars and nightclubs of this Indian Ocean coastal city. Old-school dance music competes with Swahili hip-hop and traditional drumming, all drawing from the city’s African, Indian and Arab influences. Add in the street food, the beaches and the fact that the year-old African low-cost carrier Fastjet uses Dar as its hub, and it’s easy to see that this commercial capital is more than a stopover on the way to Tanzania’s natural splendor. It is an African metropolis coming into its own. — RACHEL B. DOYLE
坦桑尼亚最为著名的是乞力马扎罗山的雪顶群峰与野生动物云集的塞伦盖帝平原，但这个国家真正的脉动却在全国第一大城市达累斯萨拉姆。风格各异的音乐在这个印度洋海岸城市的海滩俱乐部、露天酒吧和夜总会里回响。老式的舞蹈音乐与斯瓦西里嘻哈音乐、传统的鼓点相得益彰，融合了非洲、印度和阿拉伯人对这个城市的影响。街头小吃与美妙的沙滩也都吸引着游人。去年建立的非洲廉价航空公司Fastjet将达累斯萨拉姆作为交通枢纽，游客会发现，这座商业之都不仅仅是去往坦桑尼亚其他天然瑰宝的落脚点，还是一座正在形成独有风格的非洲都会。— RACHEL B. DOYLE
40. Downtown Atlanta
40. 美国亚特兰大，繁华市区
A revitalized city center welcomes new museums and streetcars.
复兴的市中心新增了不少博物馆与街车。
Atlanta plans several ribbon cuttings in 2014, but the main event is the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, scheduled to open in May next to the Centennial Olympic Park and the Georgia Aquarium downtown. The 42,000-square-foot, environmentally friendly museum will feature permanent galleries devoted to domestic and international rights struggles and will house the Martin Luther King Jr. papers owned by Morehouse College. By midyear, visitors will be able to take the new Atlanta Streetcar on a 2.7-mile loop that will link the park to the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site and other stops. Another parkside attraction, the 94,000-square-foot College Football Hall of Fame, is expected to open in time for fall kickoff of the N.C.A.A. season. — ELAINE GLUSAC
2014年，亚特兰大有好几场剪彩活动，但最重要的盛事是5月开馆的国家民权与人权中心博物馆(National Center for Civil and Human Rights)，它临近百年奥林匹克公园(Centennial Olympic Park)与佐治亚水族馆(Georgia Aquarium)。这座占地42000平方英尺的环保友好型博物馆的特色，是国内外民权活动主题的永久展馆，它将收藏莫尔豪斯学院拥有的小马丁路德金(Martin Luther King Jr.)的论文。到年中，游客可以乘坐新开通的亚特兰大街车，沿着2.7英里长的环线，游览奥运公园、小马丁路德金国家历史遗址和其他景点。公园旁边还有个旅游胜地，即占地94000平方英尺的大学足球名人堂(College Football Hall of Fame)，等到秋天，全美大学体育协会(NCAA)赛季开始时同期开馆。— ELAINE GLUSAC
41. Nozawa Onsen, Japan
41. 日本野沢
Skiing, soba and snow monkeys.
滑雪、荞麦面和雪猴。
For nearly a century, visitors have been lured to this ski destination, a 90-minute drive from Nagano, by affordability and a host of charms: fine powder, long slopes and charming cobblestone lanes lined with traditional ryokan inns, generations-old soba noodle shops and natural hot spring baths. But the recent arrival of stylish, foreigner-friendly restaurants, cafes and bars have infused the area with new energy, offering travelers just the right mix of old and new. Microbrews and excellent coffee are served at ski-in/ski-out Craft Room, while Tamon prepares innovative kaiseki cuisine using local ingredients. The lantern-hung rooms at Jon Nobi are popular among international skiers, as is its chic izakaya restaurant Himatsuri, inspired by the town’s fire festival, held annually on Jan. 15. The Asian operator Backyard Travel offers 10-day itineraries to explore Nozawa and nearby sights like a seventh-century temple and a refuge for the area’s famed snow monkeys. — NAOMI LINDT
几乎一个世纪以来，来此滑雪胜地的游客都络绎不绝。他们从长野开车90分钟就可以到达。这里物价适中，却魅力十足：细腻的雪粉，长长的坡道，迷人的卵石路旁到处是传统的日式旅馆、数百年历史的荞麦面面馆与天然温泉浴室。但近几年街上又添新丁，比如对外宾友好的时尚饭馆、咖啡厅与酒吧，为这片地区注入了新的活力，为旅行者提供了新旧混合的魅力。在可以滑雪进出的Craft Room餐厅，供应微酿啤酒与美妙的咖啡，而Tamon则用本地食材烹饪独创的怀石料理。Jon Nobi的客房挂着灯笼，深受国际滑雪爱好者的欢迎，它新潮的居酒屋“火祭”(Himatsuri )也很红火。“火祭”也是这个小镇烟火节的名字，每年1月15日举行。亚洲旅行社后院旅行(Backyard Travel)提供为期十天的旅游团，在野沢与周边景点游玩，包括七世纪的寺庙与该地区著名的雪猴栖息地。— NAOMI LINDT
42. Subotica, Serbia
42.  塞尔维亚，苏博蒂察
Serbian wine? Time to take a sip.
塞尔维亚酒？该尝尝了。
The Balkan Peninsula has a wine culture that dates back hundreds of years, but war and political unrest over the last century decimated Serbian vineyards. As recently as a decade ago, Serbia produced virtually no wine that met international standards. But progress has been swift. Recently, small producers have revived the Subotica-Horgos wine region near the northern border with Hungary. Here, the Palic Wine Route has been attracting domestic wine tourists who spend days sampling local cabernet sauvignon in wine cellars, sipping dry Trijumf white during dinner at Bosscaffe and unwinding in the Hotel Galleria‘s high-tech spa. — INGRID K. WILLIAMS
巴尔干半岛的红酒文化可追溯到几百年前，但在过去的一百年中，战争和政治动荡摧毁了许多塞尔维亚葡萄园。仅仅十年前，塞尔维亚出产的的葡萄酒几乎都不符合国际标准。但进步也是神速的。近年来，塞尔维亚北部毗邻匈牙利的苏博蒂察-霍尔果斯(Subotica-Horgos)红酒区涌现出许多小型酿酒厂，这里的帕里克红酒之路(Palic Wine Route)吸引了许多红酒游客，他们流连数日，品尝酒窖里本地特产的卡百内红葡萄酒，在Bosscaffe一边用餐，一边啜饮Trijumf干白，在Hotel Galleria酒店的高科技水疗馆放松四肢百脉。— INGRID K. WILLIAMS
43. Elsinore, Denmark
43.  丹麦，艾尔西诺
A museum’s entrance makes for something new in the state of Denmark.
在丹麦，走进博物馆，眼前一片新世界。
Even angst-ridden Prince Hamlet, literature’s most famous Dane, might be cheered by the new Maritime Museum of Denmark, which recently opened in his hometown Elsinore. Designed by the architectural firm Bjarke Ingels Group, the glassy structure is built into a U-shaped dry dock and filled with slanted floors and zigzag passageways that evoke ocean-rocked ships’ decks. Maritime relics — from torpedoes to Lego pirate ships — mix with electronic maps and films that explore the romance of the sea, shipboard existence and trade, both centuries ago and today. Interactive exhibits allow you to run your own trade company, navigate by the stars and ink a sailor’s tattoo. For additional watery wonders, head to Copenhagen’s new Blue Planet aquarium, billed as the largest in Northern Europe. — SETH SHERWOOD
哪怕是文学史上最著名的丹麦人——忧心如焚的哈姆雷特王子——也会展开笑颜，因为最近，丹麦航海博物馆在他的故乡艾尔西诺开馆。该馆由建筑事务所比贾克·英格尔斯集团(Bjarke Ingels Group)设计，用玻璃结构筑成U型干船坞。倾斜的地板和之字形曲曲折折的步道让人想起随着浪涛起伏的甲板。航海时代的纪念品（从鱼雷到乐高海盗船）、电子地图、展现海上爱情的电影、船舷实物与贸易，时代从数百年前到今天，五花八门，应有尽有。互动展览允许你运营自己的贸易公司、按照星象航行或者为自己印上水手纹身。如果想看其他的水上奇观，可以去哥本哈根最新的蓝色星球水族馆，那是北欧最大的水族馆。— SETH SHERWOOD
44. Cartmel, England
44. 英格兰卡特梅尔
Haute cuisine comes to the lush landscapes of the Lake District.
水草丰美的湖区也有高端美味了。
The British dining scene is expanding beyond London, and the chef Simon Rogan deserves much of the credit, having helped elevate the Lake District village of Cartmel into one of England’s most unlikely culinary destinations. His three restaurants in the medieval village — the Michelin two-starred L’Enclume, Rogan & Company and his most recent addition, the Pig & Whistle — have menus featuring whatever’s fresh on his nearby farm. Cartmel is also home to a celebrated farmers’ market, Cartmel Cheeses and the Cartmel Village shop, renowned for its sticky toffee pudding. What’s more, the village is a cozy base from which to explore the Lake District, once an inspiration to William Wordsworth and Beatrix Potter. — DAVID SHAFTEL
英国美食风景线延伸到了伦敦之外，名厨西蒙·洛根(Simon Rogan)功不可没，在他的帮助下，湖区(Lake District)的卡特梅尔小村摇身一变，成了英格兰最出人意料的美食胜地。他在这个中世纪小村开了三家餐厅：米其林二星级L’Enclume、Rogan & Company以及最近开业的Pig & Whistle。附近农庄什么新鲜，这里就做什么。卡特梅尔村还有一座著名的农贸市场、卡特梅尔奶酪店与卡特梅尔村商店，该商店因粘稠的太妃糖布丁而远近闻名。此外，如果你想去游览湖区，这座村子不失为一个舒适安逸的落脚点，过去，湖区曾是诗人威廉·华兹华斯(William Wordsworth)与童书作家兼画家毕翠克丝·波特(Beatrix Potter)的灵感来源。— DAVID SHAFTEL
45. Nepal
45.  尼泊尔
New peaks open up for alpine adventurers.
高山探险者的新巅峰。
This Himalayan republic is the mother lode of alpinism, home to eight of the world’s 10 highest summits (including Everest). So when a Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation subcommittee recommended last September that Nepal allow access to 165 new peaks in the Kanchenjunga massif this year — 13 of them above 23,000 feet — the world’s mountaineering community was aflutter. Some welcomed the announcement, while others dismissed it, saying the government had stretched the meaning of “peak” in a few cases to include subpeaks within mountains that were already accessible in order to rake in more in fees. Even so, the proposal is significant since it is the first such release in a decade. If the approval process progresses as expected, the territory will open for the spring season. — SANJAY SURANA
喜马拉雅山麓的尼泊尔共和国是全球高山运动的大本营，全世界最高的十座山峰这里有八座（包括珠峰）。所以，去年9月，当尼泊尔文化旅游民航部一个小组委员会建议尼泊尔今年把干城章嘉(Kanchenjunga)的群峰再向游客开放165座（其中有13座都在海拔23000英尺以上）时，整个世界的登山爱好者一片沸腾。有些人对这份声明表示欢迎，有些人却不肯苟同，他们说尼泊尔政府扩展了“山峰”的概念，把一些明明早就可以登顶的山也算了进去，目的不过是为了多收钱。即便如此，这份提案也意义深远，因为这是十年来第一份此类宣言。如果提案如愿通过，那片新巅峰将会在春季开放。— SANJAY SURANA
46. Vienna
46. 维也纳
Feel like reminiscing? A city is awash in anniversaries.
想要追忆吗？这座城市里到处都是纪念庆典。
Vienna is home to some 450 balls each year, from traditional waltzes to the “seriously outlandish” Rosenball for the gay community, and this year is the 200th anniversary since the city’s ball culture took root. You could mark the occasion by attending one, but it wouldn’t be the only date to celebrate in the capital city this year. Visitors can pay homage at the Sigmund Freud Museum since it has been 75 years since the psychoanalyst’s death. The city is also commemorating the 100th anniversary of World War I with special exhibits and the European Peace Walk, a permanent route from Vienna to Trieste through five countries. There are also new art spaces, a new transportation hub, more direct flights from the United States and offbeat places to stay, like Urbanauts’ former storefronts or Chez Cliché’s themed apartments, with décor inspired by fictional hosts, such as Marie Therese, who loves Baroque furnishings and classical music. — TANYA MOHN
维也纳每年有450场舞会，有传统的华尔兹，也有面向同志社群的“真的很怪的”玫瑰舞会。今年是这座城市舞会文化诞生200周年。为了纪念这场活动，你可以参加一场舞会，但在这座首都里，这并不是唯一的纪念日。游客可以到西格蒙德·弗洛伊德博物馆缅怀这位精神分析大师，今年是他逝世75周年。维也纳也在纪念“一战”一百周年，比如特别展及欧洲和平大道，这条永恒存在的通道从维也纳穿过五个国家，通向意大利的里雅斯特(Trieste)。新开的艺术馆、新的交通枢纽、更多直达航班从美国通向维也纳，还有更多奇趣的住所，比如Urbanauts过去的临街店面或Chez Cliché的主题公寓，这里的装饰风格以虚构的主人为主题，比如Marie Therese，她喜欢巴洛克风格的家具与古典音乐。— TANYA MOHN
47. Siem Reap, Cambodia
47.  柬埔寨暹粒
Even a 1,200-year-old lost city has some new draws.
哪怕是两千年的古城也有会新的吸引力。
If you’ve seen the temple complex of Angkor Wat in Cambodia, then the country’s lost city of Mahendraparvata, its majestic temples on Phnom Kulen and the stone animal carvings at the site of Srah Damrei (elephant pond) should be next on your list. About 30 miles from Siem Reap, Mahendraparvata predates Angkor Wat by about 350 years and was the birthplace of the Khmer Empire in A.D. 802. Although the city has been known about for several decades, researchers in June discovered new temples and a network of roads and dikes that had been concealed under thick mountain vegetation. — ROOKSANA HOSSENALLY
如果你已去过柬埔寨的吴哥窟寺庙群，那你旅行清单上的下一站应该是这个国家遗失丛林的千年古城摩醯因陀山城(Mahendraparvata)、荔枝山(Phnom Kulen)壮丽的佛寺与象池(Srah Damrei)古迹的动物石雕。摩醯因陀山城距离暹粒省大约30英里，比吴哥窟的历史还早360年左右，公元802年，高棉帝国就诞生于此。尽管几十年前人们就知道这座古城的存在，但直到去年6月，研究人员在厚厚的高山植被下，又发掘出了新的古迹，许多寺庙群、四通八达的道路与堤坝由此大白于世。— ROOKSANA HOSSENALLY
48. Varazdin, Croatia
48. 克罗地亚，瓦拉日丁
Croatia’s architectural and musical gem lies inland.
克罗地亚的建筑与音乐瑰宝都在内陆。
Forget Croatia’s beloved coast: The inland city Varazdin is one of the country’s most picturesque and well-preserved areas. One hour north of Zagreb, this small metropolis of 50,000 has an immaculate cobblestoned town center and is stocked with Baroque churches and palaces like the Draskovic. The theme continues with an annual Baroque music festival, but that’s where it ends. Other music-themed festivals and concerts are decidedly modern and change from year to year: One, the Radar Festival, for contemporary stars, has drawn names such as Bob Dylan and Carlos Santana, and various other festivals throughout the year such as Spancir Fest, celebrated from the end of August to September, attract artists and musicians from around Europe. — SHIVANI VORA
忘掉可爱的克罗地亚海岸吧。内陆城市瓦拉日丁才是全国风景最美、保护最好的地区。从萨格勒布(Zagreb)出发，向北一小时，就来到了这个五万人口的重要小城。完美无瑕的卵石镇中心到处是巴洛克教堂和宫殿，比如Draskovic宫，这一主题还将延续至一年一度的巴洛克音乐节，但也就到此为止。其他主题的音乐与演出内容相当现代，且年年都在改变。雷达音乐节(Radar Festival)以当代群星为主题，已经吸引了鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)、卡洛斯·桑塔纳(Carlos Santana)等名人。音乐盛典全年不休，比如8月底至9月举行的斯潘瑟艺术节(Spancir Fest)吸引了欧洲各地的许多艺术家与音乐家。— SHIVANI VORA
49. St. Petersburg, Fla.
49. 美国佛罗里达州圣匹兹堡
Reinventing a Florida city’s reputation.
重新塑造佛罗里达州这座城市的声名。
Once mocked for its thousands of green benches dotted with senior citizens, St. Petersburg is anything but stationary. With a redeveloped waterfront, a stunning Dali Museum, and sophisticated restaurants in place, the downtown energy is now heading up historic Central Avenue, thanks in part to the craft beer scene. Among the many recent arrivals, artsy Cycle Brewing features Fixie and Endo ales, while Green Bench Brewing Co., the name a nod to those erstwhile icons, invites winter escapees to its sunny taproom and beer garden. Refuel at the ambitious Rococo Steak, set in a renovated 1920s YWCA, then hit the Tap Room of the reinvented Hollander Hotel. — DIANE DANIEL
过去人们总是嘲笑圣匹兹堡公园里的无数绿色长椅上坐着的都是老人，而现在，它却不再是个粘滞不动的城市。水滨的达利博物馆修缮一新后令人惊艳，精致餐厅比比皆是。在市中心，沿着古老的中央大道(Central Avenue)，活力向前蔓延, 这多少要感谢此地的精酿啤酒。近几年新开了许多酒屋，其中艺术气息浓厚的循环酒屋(Cycle Brewing)有Fixie与Endo麦芽酒，而绿长椅酒厂(Green Bench Brewing Co.)以自己的名字向这座城市昔日的图标致敬，邀请那些避寒而来的游客到它阳光明媚的酒吧与啤酒花园中。雄心勃勃的洛可可牛排(Rococo Steak)由20世纪20年代的一座基督教女青年会改建而成，在这里多喝几杯，然后不妨去修整一新的霍兰德酒店(Hollander Hotel)的酒吧间。— DIANE DANIEL
50. Belize
50. 洪都拉斯伯利兹
More flights and lodges in Central America’s eco-frontier.
中美洲生态前沿的航班与住宿更加便利了。
Twenty years ago, when Francis Ford Coppola opened Blancaneaux Lodge in western Belize, relatively few travelers had ventured into this small Central American country. Slowly they arrived, many of them curious to witness the scenery that had captivated the film director, which he described in an email as “completely remote, with a beautiful pristine river you could drink the water out of and the most star-studded night sky I had ever seen.” Since then, upscale rustic hotels have cropped up all over Belize — there’s the one-year-old El Secreto in Ambergris Caye, for example, and Belcampo, an eco-lodge and sustainable farm in the south that’s about to unveil a sophisticated redesign — adding to the lure of rain forests, Mayan ruins and coral reefs. It helps that Belize is easier to reach: Delta recently announced nonstop flights from Los Angeles to Belize City, and regional carriers like Tropic Air have expanded their routes, connecting Belize to resorts like Cancún and making remote towns like San Ignacio more accessible. — PAOLA SINGER
20年前，弗朗西斯·福特·科波拉(Francis Ford Coppola)在伯利兹西部建造Blancaneaux Lodge客栈时，洪都拉斯这个中美洲小国连游客都很少。后来游客渐渐多了，很多人怀着好奇之心，想看看究竟怎样的风景迷住了这位大导演。科波拉在一封电子邮件中说，这个地方“格外偏远，小河纯净绝美，河水可以直接饮用。繁星璀璨，我从没见过这么美的夜空。”从那以后，伯利兹涌现出许多高端田园客栈，比如龙涎香岛(Ambergris Caye)一年前开业的El Secreto客栈。城市南部的生态旅馆兼可持续农庄Belcampo将在一场精巧复杂的重新设计之后再次开业，那场再设计扩展了地盘，涵盖了热带雨林、玛雅遗址与珊瑚礁。伯利兹便利的交通更增添了旅行的魅力：达美航空最近宣布开通从洛杉矶至伯利兹市的直达航班，而Tropic Air等区域航空公司增加了航线，连通伯利兹与坎昆(Cancún)等旅游城市，抵达圣伊格纳西奥(San Ignacio)等遥远的市镇也更容易了。— PAOLA SINGER
51. New Caledonia
51. 澳大利亚，新喀里多尼亚
What you’d expect (natural beauty) and not (world-class museum).
（因自然风光）你如愿以偿，（因世界一流的博物馆）又喜出望外。
This semisecret gem of the South Pacific, a three-hour flight from Sydney, is attracting visitors like never before. Thank infrastructural upgrades like a refurbished international airport, improved roads and bridges, and the arrival of high-profile properties like the new Hilton Noumea La Promenade Residences and the Sheraton New Caledonia Deva Resort & Spa, opening this summer. An island itinerary reads like a fantasy novel: snorkeling and diving in one of the world’s largest lagoons, an aquamarine stunner populated by thousands of coral and marine species and home to the world’s second largest reef (after the Great Barrier); horseback riding through verdant mountains and indigenous Kanak villages; kayaking by moonlight among the submerged forest of the Blue River Provincial Park. The cosmopolitan capital, Nouméa, has its own allures, like Le Roof, where you might spot dolphins diving in the distance while savoring the fresh oysters, and the Tjibaou Cultural Center, a Renzo Piano-designed museum housing one of the world’s largest collections of Pacific art. — NAOMI LINDT
南太平洋这块半秘密的珍宝从未像今天这样吸引游人。从悉尼出发，乘坐三个小时的飞机即可来到这里。感谢此地的基础设施更新，比如修整一新的国际机场、改进的道路和桥梁以及几座新近开张的高端酒店，包括希尔顿努美阿广场度假酒店(Hilton Noumea La Promenade Residences) 和去年夏天开业的谢拉顿新喀里多尼亚天后度假与水疗酒店(Sheraton New Caledonia Deva Resort & Spa)。在岛上巡游，感觉就像打开一本奇幻小说：在世界最大的潟湖里浮潜与潜水，这片碧蓝色的水域里有成千上万的珊瑚鱼海生动植物，美得让人震惊。这里有世界第二大的珊瑚礁（仅次于大堡礁）。骑马穿行于青翠欲滴的山林与卡纳克人的村庄；在蓝河省立公园(Blue River Provincial Park)的月光下划着小艇穿过水下森林。新喀里多尼亚的首府努美阿(Nouméa) 作为一个国际大都会也有自己独特的魅力，比如Le Roof餐馆，你可以一边品尝新鲜牡蛎，一边观看远处海豚潜水表演。芝贝欧(Tjibaou)文化中心由伦佐·皮亚诺(Renzo Piano)设计，是世界上太平洋艺术杰作藏品最多的博物馆之一。— NAOMI LINDT
52. Niagara Falls, N.Y.
52. 纽约尼亚加拉瀑布城
Once a kitsch capital, now earning a reputation for food and sports.
一度是媚俗之都，而今因美食与运动赢得美名。
Known for its remarkable natural beauty and tourist kitsch, Niagara Falls is now evolving into a draw for those who love food as well as those who seek thrills. A year ago, the Niagara Falls Culinary Institute opened a high-end restaurant, deli, patisserie and gelateria steps from the American Falls, transforming the area’s dining scene overnight. A gastro pub called the Griffon Pub, which features 50 beers on tap and creative New American dishes like gnocchi poutine, opened a few miles east of the falls in August. On the Canadian side, oenophiles can get a taste of the region’s growing wine scene just a short bike ride from the falls along the Niagara River Recreation Trail. Nondining attractions are plentiful, too. This year, Canadians will host two major War of 1812 bicentennial re-enactments in the area, and, beginning this spring, visitors will be able to see the falls from a new luxury catamaran. Tourism officials on the Canadian side appear poised to allow daredevils to zip line across or rappel down the Niagara Gorge later this year. — DAVE SEMINARA
尼亚加拉瀑布城因美妙的天然风景和媚俗旅游而闻名于世，现在正在吸引越来越多的吃货与冒险家。一年前，尼亚加拉瀑布城烹饪学院新开了高端餐厅、熟食店、法式糕点屋与冰激凌店，距离大瀑布只有几步远，一夜之间提升了这片地区的餐饮业层次。去年8月，Griffon Pub餐厅开业，距离大瀑布只有几英里远。它的特色是随时供应的50种啤酒与创意十足的美式新菜肴，比如肉汁奶酪薯条。在加拿大那边，品酒大师可以从大瀑布出发，沿着尼亚加拉河休闲步道(Niagara River Recreation Trail)骑一会儿车，到达那片欣欣向荣的酒吧区品尝几杯。当然，不提供餐饮的景点也很多。今年春天开始，加拿大瀑布城将举办两场重要的庆典，以重演的方式纪念1812年美加战争两百周年。游客可以乘坐新型豪华双体船观赏大瀑布。加拿大方面的旅游局官员似乎相当淡定，今年晚些时候，他们将允许大胆的游客经由滑索从尼亚加拉峡谷降下。— DAVE SEMINARA