Imagine you could pry off the back of Wes Anderson’s head as if it were a vintage TV set and rummage around inside. What would you find there? A mind like a junk drawer crammed with kite string, Swiss Army knives and remote-controlled toys, or one that springs open as neatly as a well-organized tackle box? A memory palace assembled ad hoc from brownstone apartments, underground caves and submarine compartments, or a diligently designed, continuously flowing and elegant old Alpine resort?
想像一下你可以从后面撬开韦斯·安德森(Wes Anderson)的脑袋，就像撬开一台老式电视机，然后在里面翻找。你会找到什么？他的大脑是像一个装满垃圾的抽屉，里面塞满了风筝线、瑞士军刀和遥控玩具，还是一个能自动弹开的井井有条的工具箱？是一个用豪宅、地下洞穴和潜水艇舱临时组装起来的记忆宫殿，还是一个精心设计、人来人往、优雅古老的阿尔卑斯山度假酒店？
It is this mountain getaway structure that is suggested by Mr. Anderson’s new movie, “The Grand Budapest Hotel,” and not just by its title.
安德森的新片《布达佩斯大饭店》(The Grand Budapest Hotel)里展示给观众的，正是这样一座山脉度假酒店，而且不止像名字这样简单。
Written by Mr. Anderson, the idiosyncratic 44-year-old filmmaker of “The Royal Tenenbaums” and “Moonrise Kingdom,” from a story by him and Hugo Guinness, “The Grand Budapest Hotel” is the tale of a finicky but charismatic concierge named Gustave H. (played by Ralph Fiennes) in the fictional European nation Zubrowka, and a comic caper he shares with a lobby boy (Tony Revolori) in the early 1930s.
44岁的另类电影导演安德森曾拍摄过《天才一族》(The Royal Tenenbaums)和《月升王国》(Moonrise Kingdom)。《布达佩斯大饭店》是安德森根据自己和雨果·吉尼斯(Hugo Guinness)的一个故事编写的，讲述的是20世纪30年代初过分讲究而极富魅力的礼宾员古斯塔夫·H（Gustave H.，拉尔夫·法因斯[Ralph Fiennes]饰）在虚构的欧洲国家朱布罗卡(Zubrowka)和一个大堂服务员（托尼·里弗罗里[Tony Revolori]饰）从事滑稽的不法活动的故事。
Like the hotel of its title, this movie is filled with Mr. Anderson’s distinctive and pored-over touches: pastel color schemes, baroque costumes and delicate pastries that mark it as one of his films.
像片名中的那个饭店一样，这部电影充满了安德森独特而讲究的风格：柔和的配色方案，巴洛克式的服装和精致的糕点——这些都表明这是安德森的电影。
But beyond the archness and deliberation of “The Grand Budapest Hotel” lurks a sense of foreboding and menace uncommon to Mr. Anderson’s work — a feeling that this carefully constructed realm is in danger of slipping away.
但是《布达佩斯大饭店》的调皮和审慎背后潜伏着安德森的作品中不常见的一种不祥和危险的感觉，好像这个精心建造的王国有崩溃的危险。
And while this film, perhaps more so than Mr. Anderson’s seven others, presents a time and place he has never seen nor inhabited, and experiences he has never undergone, it might also offer his most personal invitation yet into his world, and the thoughts and feelings that shape it.
与安德森的其他七部电影相比，这部电影更是展示了他从未见过或生活过的时代和地点，以及他从未经历过的体验以它或许也是一份私人邀请，邀你走进他的世界，去了解塑造这个世界的思想与感受。
In his travels, “I’m a total foreigner, I have a real outsider’s point of view,” Mr. Anderson said last Saturday night in his halting stop-and-start delivery, having just arrived at a downtown New York hotel after a flight from Paris.
上周六晚上，安德森从巴黎飞到纽约，在市中心的一家酒店入住后不久，以犹豫不定、吞吞吐吐的方式说，在旅行中“我完全是个外国人，我具有真正的局外人的视角”。
As he has encountered Europe and its populace, he said: “I don’t share their cynicism. I’m shielded from it, because I’ve been through nothing like any of the things these people went through.”
关于他见到的欧洲和那里的民众，他说：“我没有他们那种愤世嫉俗。我和那种感情是绝缘的——因为我从未经历过这些人经历的任何东西。”
But when he makes his movies, “I’m much more adventurous,” he said, then added, “when I’ve got a reason to be.”
但是他说，在拍电影时“我冒险得多”，又补充说，“在我有理由这么做的时候”。
Raised in Texas (the setting of his first two features, “Bottle Rocket” and “Rushmore”), Mr. Anderson now lives in New York but has spent much of the last two years in Europe — not only on the “Grand Budapest Hotel” set, in Görlitz, Germany, but also in the head space of Stefan Zweig, the early-20th-century Austrian writer.
安德森在德克萨斯州长大（他的头两部电影《瓶装火箭》[Bottle Rocket]和《青春年少》[Rushmore]就是在这里拍摄的）。他现居纽约，不过最近两年的大部分时间在欧洲度过——在《布达佩斯大饭店》的拍摄地德国格尔利茨，或者在20世纪初奥地利作家斯特凡·茨威格(Stefan Zweig)的笔下世界里。
Zweig, whom Mr. Anderson cites as a crucial inspiration for his new film, cataloged Europe before it was overrun by fascism, in works of fiction and an autobiography, “The World of Yesterday.”
安德森说，茨威格是他的这部新片的主要灵感来源。茨威格在自己的小说和自传《昨日的世界》(The World of Yesterday)中记录了欧洲被纳粹蹂躏之前的状况。
“No one thought of wars, of revolutions or revolts,” Zweig wrote in this book. “All that was radical, all violence, seemed impossible in an age of reason.”
“没人想到战争、革命或叛乱，”茨威格在传记中写道，“所有那些太激进，太暴力，在一个理性的年代似乎是不可能的。”
Mr. Anderson, who was fascinated by Zweig’s psychological insights into his characters and by his elaborate framing devices, said: “They’re not old-fashioned stories in the least. They’re post-Freudian, by a guy who actually knew Freud.”
安德森深深着迷于茨威格对人物的心理洞察以及精致的构造手法。他说，“它们绝不是老式的故事。它们是后弗洛伊德式的。而作者真的认识弗洛伊德。”
In Mr. Anderson’s hands, this setting becomes the playground for Gustave H., an old-school dandy — part Peter O’Toole, part David Bowie — who keeps the titular hotel running like clockwork.
在安德森手中，这个背景变成了古斯塔夫·H的游乐场。他是一个老派花花公子——有点像彼得·奥图尔(Peter O’Toole)，也有点像大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)——把这个有名无实的酒店管理得井井有条。
Mr. Fiennes, best known for his coldly villainous performances as Amon Goeth in “Schindler’s List” and Lord Voldemort in the “Harry Potter” series, said in an interview that he was happy to have “exorcised those characters” in “Grand Budapest Hotel.”
法因斯以在《辛德勒的名单》(Schindler’s List)中扮演冷酷、邪恶的阿蒙·格特(Amon Goeth)、在《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)系列中扮演伏地魔(Lord Voldemort)而闻名。他在采访中说自己很高兴能在《布达佩斯大饭店》中“驱除那些角色”。
He recalled that when Mr. Anderson offered him the screenplay, “He actually said, ‘Who would you like to play?’ Which was rather odd, because clearly the most prominent role was Gustave. He was an attractive figure on the page, with his fastidiousness and his love of perfume.”
他回忆说，安德森给他剧本的时候，“居然说，‘你想扮演谁？’ 这很奇怪，因为古斯塔夫显然是其中最耀眼的角色。他在剧本中是个很有魅力的人物，做事一丝不苟，酷爱香水。”
For the shoot, which took place largely at a converted department store, Mr. Anderson also had no trouble tapping into the eclectic roster of actors who have become his unofficial repertory company: Bill Murray, Owen Wilson and Jason Schwartzman turn up as hotel staffers; Edward Norton plays a police captain and Willem Dafoe a sinister enforcer; and Tilda Swinton, under layers of cosmetics, plays an octogenarian dowager named Madame D.
拍摄主要在一个改造过的商场进行。安德森毫不费力地把他非正式剧团中的演员安插到了电影中：比尔·默里(Bill Murray)、欧文·威尔森(Owen Wilson)和詹森·施瓦茨曼(Jason Schwartzman)扮演酒店员工；爱德华·诺顿(Edward Norton)扮演警察队长；威廉·达福(Willem Dafoe)扮演邪恶的执法人员；蒂尔达·斯温顿(Tilda Swinton)涂上厚厚的油彩，扮演一个八十多岁的贵妇人，名叫D夫人。
When Mr. Anderson asked if she’d be up for “a bit of hard-core prosthetics work” and the “full-fledged old-age makeup routine,” Ms. Swinton said by email, her reply was “Count me in” (with an X for a kiss).
斯温顿在邮件采访中说，当安德森问她能否接受“非常厉害的假体化妆”和“一整套老年化妆程序”时，她的回答是“我要加入”（还加了个X，表示亲吻）。
Asked why she made the sacrifice, Ms. Swinton replied, “Because why ever not? And what sacrifice, by the way?”
当被问及她为什么愿意做出这种牺牲时，斯温顿回答说，“为什么不呢？何况有什么牺牲吗？”
The actors were offered access to a library that included Zweig’s work and films by directors like Ernst Lubitsch, Rouben Mamoulian and Frank Borzage. They also had the option of watching an animatic (a rough film of storyboard images edited together) Mr. Anderson had made of the entire movie, as he envisioned it, with him voicing all the characters.
演员们可以去一个图书馆阅读茨威格的作品，或者观看恩斯特·刘别谦(Ernst Lubitsch)、鲁本·马穆利安(Rouben Mamoulian)和弗兰克·鲍扎格(Frank Borzage)等人导演的影片。他们还可以观看安德森按自己的设想制作的整部电影的样片（把故事梗概图片编辑到一起的粗糙的影片），其中所有的人物都由他自己配音。
“I thought: ‘This guy doesn’t even need actors. The film is already made,’ ” Mr. Dafoe said.
“当时我想，‘这家伙根本不需要演员。这电影俨然已经拍好了嘛，’”达福说。
Mr. Dafoe, who first worked with Mr. Anderson on his 2004 film “The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,” recalled the production of that movie as more haphazard.
达福第一次跟安德森合作是在2004年的影片《水中生活》(The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou)中。他回忆说那部电影的制作要随意得多。
“I found that he was making the world as we were shooting it,” Mr. Dafoe said. “It wasn’t clear what my character was or was going to do. I was on the set pretty much all the time, and he would fold me into things or invent things.”
“我当时发现他是一边拍，一边构建那个世界，”达福说，“我扮演的角色是什么、要干什么都不清楚。我差不多一直在片场，他会把我插到故事中或者创造点故事。”
On “Grand Budapest Hotel,” Mr. Dafoe said, he was glad to have the animatic and other references to ground himself in Mr. Anderson’s domain. But Mr. Fiennes said he preferred not to study Mr. Anderson’s designs too closely. “They were helpful because you thought, ‘O.K., he has his plan,’ ” Mr. Fiennes said. “But you don’t want to act the storyboard. You want to be alive in the present moment.”
达福说，在《布达佩斯大饭店》里，他很高兴有样片和其他参考资料，可以让自己降落在安德森的领地上。但是法因斯说自己更喜欢不要太认真地研究安德森的设计。“它们有帮助，因为你当时想，‘好的，他有个计划’，”法因斯说，“但是你不想按照故事梗概图片表演。你想在当下这一刻保持活力。”
Mr. Fiennes said that for him and Mr. Anderson, the character of Gustave H. presented a continuing question of tone: Should he be extreme and over the top, or should he be underplayed?
法因斯说，对他和安德森来说，古斯塔夫·H这个人物始终存在一个基调的问题：他是应该极端、夸张，还是不要表现得那么明显？”
“Wes likes to do a lot of takes,” Mr. Fiennes said, “which I like, because you get to play. And in playing, you’re slightly numbed by repetition, and you discover something that hasn’t been thought of.”
“韦斯喜欢拍很多预备镜头，”法因斯说，“我喜欢这一点，因为你能去表演。在表演的过程中，你因为重复而稍微有点麻木，这时你就会发现之前没有想到的东西。”
Mr. Anderson may have come to the interview in a tweed suit, and he casually peppered the conversation with words like “nevertheless,” but he is hardly disconnected from everyday life. He is a fan of mainstream movies like “Inception” and “The Wolf of Wall Street,” and his peers describe him as a committed friend who has supported them with their own work.
虽然安德森接受采访时穿着花呢西服，谈话中偶尔会说出“尽管如此”这样的词，但他几乎没有与日常生活脱节。他喜欢《盗梦空间》(Inception)和《华尔街之狼》(The Wolf of Wall Street)这样的主流电影，他的同行们说他是个忠诚的朋友，会支持朋友们的作品。
The writer-director Noah Baumbach (“Frances Ha”), Mr. Anderson’s co-writer on “Life Aquatic” and “Fantastic Mr. Fox,” recalled their first meeting in the late 1990s, when both were celebrated young directors, though Mr. Baumbach was struggling to figure out his next project.
作家、导演诺亚·鲍姆巴赫（Noah Baumbach，曾执导《弗朗西丝·哈》[Frances Ha]）和安德森合写了《水中生活》和《了不起的狐狸爸爸》(Fantastic Mr. Fox)。他回忆起90年代末他们首次见面的情形。当时他们都是著名的年轻导演，不过鲍姆巴赫正在努力考虑下一部电影拍什么。
Though he and Mr. Anderson could have approached each other with “backstabbing jealousy,” Mr. Baumbach said with a laugh, they instead bonded over the similar notebooks they carried and their mutual love of Peter Bogdanovich (whose next film the two are producing).
鲍姆巴赫大笑着说，虽然他们的关系可以是“因嫉妒而背地里中伤”，但实际上因为身上携带着类似的笔记本以及对彼得·波格丹诺维奇（Peter Bogdanovich，他们是他的下一部电影的制片人）的共同喜爱，他们建立了亲密的关系。
Mr. Anderson let Mr. Baumbach read a draft of the “Royal Tenenbaums” screenplay and asked him to collaborate on later work, invitations that Mr. Baumbach said helped loosen the creative gears for his 2005 film, “The Squid and the Whale.”
安德森让鲍姆巴赫读了《天才一族》的剧本的一个草稿，请他合作进行后期工作，鲍姆巴赫说这些邀请有助于放松他2005年的电影《鱿鱼和鲸》(The Squid and the Whale)的创作压力。
“Wes came right out of the gate, in real control of what he was doing, and knew very early on how to execute it,” Mr. Baumbach said. To see that in action, he added, “was huge for me.”
“韦斯开门见山，对自己做的事情有真正的掌控，一开始就知道如何实行，”鲍姆巴赫说。他补充说，要做到这一点，“对我来说要求很高”。
Yet even as Mr. Anderson has matured, the thread that connects all of his movies is the desire to create “stuff that he wants to experience,” Mr. Schwartzman said.
施瓦茨曼说，不过，虽然安德森已经成熟了，但是贯穿他所有电影的线索仍是创造“他想体验的东西”的欲望。
Back when they were shooting a memorable go-cart scene in “Rushmore,” Mr. Schwartzman recalled, “he asked one of the other kids to pull over, and he kind of commandeered his go-cart. And he’s like, ‘Let’s go!’ And we took off into the suburbs of Houston, just smiling and hooting.”
施瓦茨曼回忆说，他们在拍摄《青春年少》的一个难忘的驾马车的场景时，“他让另一个孩子把车停到路边，他差不多算是霸占了那辆马车。他说，‘我们走吧！’我们就笑着喊叫着向休斯顿的郊区进发。”
“That,” Mr. Schwartzman said, “is still there in every movie.”
施瓦茨曼说，“现在每部电影都还有这样的时刻。”
Mr. Anderson has not completely shaken off all his youthful fixations in “Grand Budapest Hotel.” To the extent that there is any romance in the film, it exists only between two chaste young lovers played by Mr. Revolori and Saoirse Ronan, and between the comically age-inappropriate Gustave H. and Madame D.
在《布达佩斯大饭店》中，安德森也没有完全摆脱他年轻时的定位。从某种意义上讲，如果影片中有恋情的话，那只存在于里弗罗里和萨奥斯·罗南(Saoirse Ronan)扮演的两个纯洁的年轻恋人之间，以及年龄悬殊得有点滑稽的古斯塔夫·H和D夫人之间。
(“Maybe lovers are always 9 years old at heart,” Ms. Swinton said. “Or 90. Same difference. Wes notices this.”)
（“也许恋人们心里永远都只有9岁，”斯温顿说，“或者90岁。9岁和90岁是一样的。韦斯注意到了这一点。”）
What is unusual for Mr. Anderson in this film is the feeling of loss that hovers over his characters, as even a made-up version of decadent Europe is forced to give way to the brutal approach of World War II.
安德森的这部电影不同寻常的一点是盘旋在人物身上的失落感，因为连这个假想的颓废的欧洲也被迫屈服于残酷的“二战”的到来。
Mr. Anderson said this was probably his first movie with real villains and real violence, which he said must be an expression — conscious or otherwise — of what history was about to do to these people.
安德森说，这很可能是他的第一部含有真正的坏人和暴力的电影。他说这应该是历史对这些人的评价——有意或无意之间的评价。
“I mutilate somebody about every 10 minutes of the movie,” he said, slightly exaggerating. “I’ve never done that. I’ve never had people getting torn limb from limb.”
“在这部电影中，我差不多每十分钟就肢解一个人，”他略带夸张地说，“我从没干过这种事。我从没让人被一块块地撕裂。”
Beyond its antic comedy, “The Grand Budapest Hotel” portrays Gustave H. as a man seeking to preserve a time and place that is already lost — a description that could as easily apply to Mr. Anderson.
在滑稽的喜剧之外，《布达佩斯大饭店》把古斯塔夫·H描绘成一个努力保护已经失去的时代和地方的人——这个描述也可以轻松用在安德森身上。
Still, some of Mr. Anderson’s actors stopped short of endorsing the idea that Gustave H. was his stand-in.
不过，安德森的一些演员决定不承认古斯塔夫·H是他的化身。