Architecture generally involves creating monuments to permanence from substantial materials like steel and concrete. Yet this year, the discipline’s top award is going to a man who is best known for making temporary housing out of transient materials like paper tubes and plastic beer crates.
一般来说，建筑是指用钢筋、混凝土这样的材料建造永久性的建筑物。但是今年，这个领域的最高奖项将颁给一个以用纸管和塑料啤酒箱等不耐用的材料建造临时住所而闻名的人。
On Monday, the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban was named the winner of this year’s Pritzker Architecture Prize, largely because of his work designing shelters after natural disasters in places like Rwanda, Turkey, India, China, Haiti and Japan.
周一，日本建筑师坂茂(Shigeru Ban)被宣布为今年的普利兹克建筑奖(Pritzker Architecture)得主，主要基于他在卢旺达、土耳其、印度、中国、海地和日本等地的自然灾难之后设计的避难所。
“His buildings provide shelter, community centers and spiritual places for those who have suffered tremendous loss and destruction,” the jury said in its citation. “When tragedy strikes, he is often there from the beginning.”
“他的建筑为那些遭受巨大损失和破坏的人们提供了避难所、社区中心和精神栖息地，”评审团在获奖评语中说，“当灾难降临时，他通常很快赶到那里。” 
In a telephone interview from Paris, Mr. Ban, 56, said he was honored to have won, not because the Pritzker would raise his profile but because it affirms the humanitarian emphasis of his work. “I’m trying to understand the meaning of this encouragement,” he said of the prize. “It’s not the award for achievement. I have not made a great achievement.”
56岁的坂茂在巴黎接受电话采访时说，他为获奖感到荣幸，不是因为普利兹克奖将提高他的声望，而是因为它肯定了他的作品对人道主义的关注。“我正在努力理解这个鼓励的意义，”他说，“它不是对我的成就的嘉奖。我还没有取得很大的成就。”
The prize, established in 1979 and viewed as the Nobel of architecture awards, suggests otherwise.
该奖项设立于1979年，被认为是建筑界的诺贝尔奖。该奖项的评委会与坂茂的看法不同。
Mr. Ban is credited with challenging traditional notions of domestic space and what it means to have a roof over your head. His Naked House in Saitama, Japan, features four rooms on casters within a house clad in clear corrugated plastic and surrounded by rice fields. He stepped in after the 19th-century Christchurch Cathedral in New Zealand was ravaged by a 2011 earthquake, designing a transitional sanctuary fashioned mainly from cardboard tubes.
他们认为坂茂颠覆了人们对室内空间的传统观念以及头上有屋顶的意义。他在日本埼玉县设计的“裸之屋”在一个房子里放了四个带滑轮的房间，房子上覆盖着洁白的瓦楞塑料，四周都是稻田。新西兰19世纪的克莱斯特彻奇大教堂在2011年的地震中被毁坏后，他开始介入，设计了一个主要用硬纸管做成的过渡性避难所。
Asked to create something related to the Pont du Gard, a Roman aqueduct on the Gardon River in the south of France, he came up with a footbridge, using his signature cardboard tubes and recycled paper as a counterpoint to the ancient structure’s heavy stone. And his Curtain Wall House in Tokyo links interior and exterior with white curtains that can be opened and closed.
当被要求创造一个与法国南部嘉德河上的罗马水道桥相关的东西时，他设计了一个人行桥，用的是他标志性的硬纸管和再生纸，与那座古代桥梁厚重的石头材料形成了对比。他在东京设计的幕墙房用可以开关的白窗帘把内部和外部连接起来。
“His works are airy, curvaceous, balletic,” Michael Kimmelman wrote in The New York Times in 2007. “An heir to Buckminster Fuller and Oscar Niemeyer, to Japanese traditional architecture and to Alvar Aalto, he is an old-school Modernist with a poet’s touch and an engineer’s inventiveness.”
“他的作品很通透，具有曲线美和芭蕾舞的美感，”迈克尔·基梅尔曼(Michael Kimmelman)2007年在《纽约时报》上写道，“他继承了巴克敏斯特·富勒(Buckminster Fuller)、奥斯卡·尼迈耶(Oscar Niemeyer)、日本传统建筑以及阿尔瓦·阿尔托(Alvar Aalto)的风格，他是老派的现代主义者，具有诗人的格调和工程师的创造性。”
Mr. Ban is also known for somewhat more conventional projects, like the Pompidou Center’s satellite museum in Metz, France (with a roof inspired by a woven bamboo hat) and his entry for the competition to redesign the World Trade Center as part of a team that included Rafael Viñoly, Frederic Schwartz and Ken Smith. Mr. Ban’s Aspen Art Museum, a 33,000-square-foot structure in Colorado with a woven exterior wood screen, is to open in August.
坂茂也因为一些更传统的项目而闻名，比如法国梅茨市庞毕度中心的卫星博物馆（satellite museum,屋顶的灵感来自手工编织的斗笠）；作为一个团队的一部分，他申请加入重新设计世界贸易中心的竞争，团队其他成员包括拉斐尔·维诺利(Rafael Viñoly)、弗雷德里克·施瓦兹(Frederic Schwartz)和肯·史密斯(Ken Smith)。坂茂设计的阿斯彭艺术博物馆(Aspen Art Museum)将于今年8月开幕。它是科罗拉多州的一个建筑面积为3万3000平方英尺的建筑，外部装着交织的木挡板。
Yet, in a way, Mr. Ban also represents a kind of anti-architecture, a rejection of the aura of celebrity status pursued by many in the profession. In public remarks this month, for example, Mr. Ban took architects to task for not putting their expertise to work for a greater social good.
但是，从某种意义上讲，坂茂也代表了一种反建筑态度，一种对这个行业里的很多人追求的名人光环的排斥。例如，坂茂本月在公开评论中责备建筑师们没有把自己的专业技能用于更大的社会公益上。
“I’m not saying I’m against building monuments, but I’m thinking we can work more for the public,” he said in London at Ecobuild, an annual conference on sustainable design. “Architects are not building temporary housing because we are too busy building for the privileged people.”
“我不是说我反对建造永久性建筑，但是我在想我们可以为公众做得更多，”他在伦敦的生态建筑(Ecobuild)大会上说。它是一个关于可持续设计的年度大会。“建筑师们没有在设计临时住所是因为我们太过忙于为特权阶层做设计。”
Each year the Pritzker goes to a living architect whose work has contributed to humanity and the built environment. Mr. Ban will receive a $100,000 grant and a bronze medallion to be awarded on June 13 in a ceremony at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. Previous winners of the prize have included Philip Johnson, Frank Gehry, Zaha Hadid and Norman Foster. 
每年，普利兹克奖授予一位对人类以及人造环境做出贡献的在世建筑师。坂茂将获得10万美元奖金和一个铜质奖章，颁奖典礼将于6月13日在阿姆斯特丹国立博物馆举行。之前的获奖者包括菲利普·约翰森(Philip Johnson)、弗兰克·盖里(Frank Gehry)、扎哈·哈迪德(Zaha Hadid)和诺曼·福斯特(Norman Foster)。
Mr. Ban was originally drawn to disaster relief by the squalid condition of Rwanda’s refugee camps in 1994. “I thought we could improve them,” he said. He traveled to Geneva to work with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on designing prototype tents with paper poles.
坂茂是在1994年看到卢旺达难民营的脏乱情况后开始对灾难援助感兴趣的。“我当时想我们可以改善那种情况，”他说。他到日内瓦和联合国难民署高级专员一起设计了用纸杆建造的模范帐篷。
He then turned his attention to the aftermath of the 1995 earthquake in Kobe, Japan, designing emergency housing with beer-crate foundations and paper-tube walls. He has since become a familiar presence on the scene of major international disasters, arriving with architecture students to teach them about developing solutions at such sites.
之后他把注意力转到了1995年日本神户地震后的情况上，设计了用啤酒板条箱做地基、用纸管做墙的紧急住所。从那以后，他成了重大国际灾难现场的常客，和建筑学的学生们一起到达，教他们在这样的地点想出解决方案。