Overcoming death-defying odds — modest ticket sales, little-known stars and limited appeal to tourists — “A Gentleman’s Guide to Love & Murder” won the Tony Award for best musical on Sunday night, in a ceremony that stood out for spreading the wealth among many shows. As for performers, one reigned supreme: Audra McDonald made history by winning her sixth prize for acting, the most ever.
《爱与谋杀的绅士指南》(A Gentleman’s Guide to Love & Murder)票房不佳，演员名气不大，对游客吸引力有限，尽管有着这些致命的不利因素，周日晚上，它还是获得了托尼奖最佳音乐剧奖。此次颁奖礼决心要把荣誉广泛分配给众多戏剧。在表演奖方面，有人再次登上顶峰——奥德拉·麦克唐纳(Audra McDonald)第六次获得表演奖，成为获得该奖最多的人，创造了历史。
Ms. McDonald’s portrayal of a broken-down Billie Holiday, in “Lady Day at Emerson’s Bar and Grill,” was one of several Tony victories that honored real-life figures. Jessie Mueller won best actress in a musical for the persevering title character in “Beautiful: The Carole King Musical,” while Bryan Cranston (Walter White in “Breaking Bad”) won best actor as the irascible Lyndon B. Johnson in Robert Schenkkan’s “All the Way,” which also took the Tony for best play.
麦克唐纳在《哈乐黛在爱默生酒吧的日子》(Lady Day at Emerson’s Bar and Grill)中饰演衰弱的比莉·哈乐黛(Billie Holiday)，本届托尼奖中，还有几个奖项也颁给了以真实人物为题材的戏剧。杰西·米勒(Jessie Mueller)凭借在《美丽传奇：凯洛·金音乐剧》(Beautiful: The Carole King Musical)中扮演不屈不挠的凯洛·金获得了音乐剧类最佳女主角奖；布莱恩·克兰斯顿（Bryan Cranston，《绝命毒师》[Breaking Bad]中沃尔特·怀特[Walter White]的饰演者）凭借在罗伯特·斯坎卡恩(Robert Schenkkan)的《一路到底》(All the Way)中扮演暴躁的林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)获得了话剧类最佳男主角奖，该剧还获得了托尼奖最佳话剧奖。
Those prizes weren’t especially surprising, nor was the award for best actor in a musical to Neil Patrick Harris, a sitcom star and four-time Tony broadcast host, in the change-of-pace role of Hedwig in “Hedwig and the Angry Inch.” A resonant production of Lorraine Hansberry’s “A Raisin in the Sun” took prizes for best revival of a play, best supporting actress (for Sophie Okonedo) and the director Kenny Leon. In those major categories it bested the recent revival of “The Glass Menagerie,” which did win the first Tony (for best lighting) in the history of all seven Broadway productions of that Tennessee Williams classic.
这些奖项并不特别令人意外，音乐剧类最佳男主角奖颁给尼尔·帕特里克·哈里斯(Neil Patrick Harris)也不令人意外。他是情景喜剧明星，曾四次主持托尼奖颁奖礼，本次获奖是凭借在《摇滚芭比》(Hedwig and the Angry Inch)中扮演一个不同以往的角色——黑德维希(Hedwig)。洛林·汉斯伯里(Lorraine Hansberry)的《日光下的葡萄干》(A Raisin in the Sun)的复排版引人共鸣，获得了最佳复排话剧奖、最佳女配角奖（索菲·奥克妮多[Sophie Okonedo]）和最佳导演奖——肯尼·利昂(Kenny Leon)。在那些主要类别中，它打败了最近的复排剧《玻璃动物园》(The Glass Menagerie)。后者是田纳西·威廉斯(Tennessee Williams)的经典之作，曾七次登上百老汇舞台，今年获得了第一个托尼奖（最佳灯光奖）。
Mr. Harris, as Hedwig, delivered one of the most rousing numbers of the CBS telecast, singing “Sugar Daddy” while roaming the audience, licking Samuel L. Jackson’s eyeglasses and giving a lap dance to Sting. After an energetic hop through Radio City Music Hall in homage to a 1950s movie, the show’s host, Hugh Jackman, stayed largely in lady-killer mode, serenading the best actress nominees and dancing with those from the musicals.
哈里斯展示了哥伦比亚广播公司(CBS)直播中最活跃的一段歌舞，他扮成黑德维希，一边在观众席漫步，一边演唱《甜爹》(Sugar Daddy)，舔塞缪尔·L·杰克逊(Samuel L. Jackson)的眼镜，在斯汀(Sting)面前跳大腿舞。为了向20世纪50年代的一部电影致敬，主持人休·杰克曼(Hugh Jackman)绕着无线电城音乐厅跳了一圈，他仍然主要走大众情人路线，给最佳女主角提名演员们唱小夜曲，和音乐剧女演员们跳舞。
The best musical win for “Gentleman’s Guide” was hard to predict, as the show, a sly operetta, was locked in a tight race among Tony voters with the crowd-pleasing “Beautiful” for the one prize that typically lifts the box office. Joey Parnes, the lead producer of “Gentleman’s Guide,” spoke for his dozens of investors (some of whom were crowded onstage with him) when he declared, “The little engine that could — did!”
《绅士指南》获得最佳音乐剧奖很难预测，因为这部调皮的轻歌剧和讨观众喜欢的《美丽传奇》在争夺托尼奖投票者的竞赛中势均力敌，该奖项能够极大地提高票房。《绅士指南》的主要制作人乔伊·帕内斯(Joey Parnes)在代表几十位投资者（其中一些和他挤在台上）讲话时宣布：“这个小发动机——成功了！”
“Gentleman’s Guide” ended up with four prizes, including for its director (Darko Tresnjak in his Broadway debut) and its book (by Robert L. Freedman).
《绅士指南》最终获得了四项大奖，包括最佳导演奖（达尔科·特里斯雅克[Darko Tresnjak]，这是他在百老汇导演的第一部戏剧）和最佳剧本奖（罗伯特·L·弗里德曼[Robert L. Freedman]）。
Ultimately, though Tony voters went for the show with comic verve and an original score rather than the jukebox musical, they anointed the relative newcomer, Ms. Mueller, over a field of veterans like Sutton Foster and Idina Menzel.
虽然托尼奖投票者们更喜欢具有喜剧活力和原创音乐的戏剧，而不是点唱机式的音乐剧，但是他们最终选择了相对来说的新人——米勒女士——而不是老将，比如萨顿·福斯特(Sutton Foster)和伊迪娜·门泽尔(Idina Menzel)。
After thanking God and her parents, Ms. Mueller paid homage to Ms. King, with whom she performed “I Feel the Earth Move” just moments earlier.
在感谢上帝和父母之后，米勒向刚才和她一起演唱《我感觉地球在转动》(I Feel the Earth Move)的凯洛·金致敬。
“You teach me so much every night as I try to go through what you went through and come out of it with kindness and love and forgiveness and a pure heart,” Ms. Mueller said, to wide applause.
“每天晚上，我努力感受你经历的一切，然后带着仁慈、爱、宽恕和一颗纯净的心走出来，你教会了我很多东西，”米勒说。她的话赢得了热烈的掌声。
The other major ovation of the night — a lengthy, standing one — came for a weeping Ms. McDonald for her sixth victory, which also included becoming the first performer to win Tonys in all four acting categories. Her previous Tonys had tied her with Julie Harris, who had a sixth special Tony honoring her theater career.
当晚的另一次长时间起立鼓掌是献给第六次获得托尼奖的麦克唐纳，她激动得热泪盈眶。另外，她还成为第一位获得托尼奖全部四个表演类奖项的演员。她之前获得的托尼奖与朱莉·哈里斯(Julie Harris)密切相关，后者第六次获得表彰其戏剧事业的托尼特别奖。
Ms. McDonald’s win is all the more extraordinary because she is only 43. She credited her parents for ignoring doctors’ recommendations to medicate her hyperactivity during childhood, encouraging her to act instead, she said.
麦克唐纳只有43岁，所以她的获胜显得更加特别。她说感激自己的父母不听医生的建议，没有对她儿时的多动症进行药物治疗，而是鼓励她去表演。
She went on to pay tribute to “all the shoulders of the strong and brave and courageous women that I’m standing on,” naming Lena Horne, Ruby Dee and others, especially Holiday. “You deserve so much more than you were given when you were on this planet,” she said of the singer, who died at 44 after years of heavy drinking and drug use.
然后她称赞“所有坚强、勇敢、有胆量的女人们”，认为自己是从她们身上汲取力量才取得了现在的成就，她指的是莱娜·霍恩(Lena Horne)、鲁比·迪伊(Ruby Dee)和其他一些人，特别是哈乐黛。“你在世的时候值得拥有更多，”她提到这位歌手时这样说。哈乐黛在多年酗酒、吸毒之后于44岁去世。
Mr. Cranston, one of the few Hollywood stars nominated for a Tony this year, seemed awe-struck by his victory, peppering his speech with “oh my goodness,” “oh dear” and “oh Lordy.”
克兰斯顿是今年的少数几个获得提名的好莱坞明星之一。他似乎被自己的胜利震撼了，他的获奖感言中充满了“哦，天哪”，“哦，上帝”和“哦，主啊”这样的话。
Mr. Schenkkan, the play’s author, was more wry, noting that his last Tony nomination came in 1994 for “The Kentucky Cycle.”
这部戏剧的作者斯坎卡恩更喜欢自嘲，说他上次获得托尼奖提名是1994年凭借《肯塔基循环》(The Kentucky Cycle)。
“You go a long time between drinks of water in this town,” said Mr. Schenkkan, who lost the Tony but won a Pulitzer Prize for that earlier play.
“在这个领域，你要隔很长时间才能尝到成功的滋味，”斯坎卡恩说。他的上一部作品没有获得托尼奖，但是获得了普利策奖。
In all, seven musicals and six plays won at least one Tony Award, compared with four musicals and six plays last year. “Gentleman’s Guide” and “Hedwig” received the most awards, four, a relatively small number, while the three awards for “Raisin” were the most of any play.
总的来说，有七部音乐剧和六部话剧至少获得了一项托尼奖，而去年只有四部音乐剧和六部话剧获奖。《绅士指南》和《摇滚芭比》得的奖最多——四项——这是个相对较小的数字。《葡萄干》获得了三个奖项，是话剧中得奖最多的。
Other acting awards went to Mark Rylance for playing a woman, the giddy countess Olivia in “Twelfth Night,” and Lena Hall for playing a man, the bedraggled singer Yitzhak in “Hedwig.” It was Mr. Rylance’s third Tony; he previously won for lead roles in “Jerusalem” and “Boeing-Boeing.” Ms. Hall’s win augured a good night for “Hedwig,” which later won best musical revival. She used her acceptance speech to thank virtually everyone working on the show and family — including “my soon-to-be-born niece.”
获得其他表演奖项的还有马克·赖伦斯(Mark Rylance)和莱娜·霍尔(Lena Hall)。前者是男扮女装——《第十二夜》(Twelfth Night)中令人眼花缭乱的女伯爵奥利维亚(Olivia)；后者是女扮男装——《摇滚芭比》中蓬头垢面的歌手伊扎克(Yitzhak)。这是赖伦斯第三次获得托尼奖，前两次获奖是主演《耶路撒冷》(Jerusalem)和《波音-波音》(Boeing-Boeing)。霍尔获奖对《摇滚芭比》来说是好兆头，后来它获得了最佳复排音乐剧奖。她在获奖感言中感谢了参与该剧的所有人和家人——包括“我即将出世的侄子”。
James Monroe Iglehart won a best featured actor Tony for the musical “Aladdin” and stopped by the press room and elaborated on a “praise shout” he made accepting his award. “The praise shout was not planned,” he said. “If it’s planned, it’s not real. I had to give praise because my mama told me to keep God first and blessings would happen.” Also, he added, “The Tonys is the most dignified awards show, and I wanted to undignify it a little.”
詹姆斯·门罗·伊格尔哈特(James Monroe Iglehart)凭借《阿拉丁》(Aladdin)获得了最佳音乐剧男配角奖。他到新闻发布室解释他在领奖时发出的“欢呼”。“欢呼不是计划好的，”他说，“如果它是计划好的，就不真实了。我必须得欢呼，因为妈妈对我说要把上帝放在第一位，然后就会交好运。”他还补充说，“托尼奖是最庄重的颁奖礼，我想让它稍微不那么庄重。”
Speaking of not too dignified, Mr. Iglehart said he would not be having dinner at a fancy restaurant Sunday night. He and his wife were going to hit McDonald’s because it keeps him humble, he said. Then “we go back to our house, and we kick it with our cats, and this lets us know that this is still real life.”
提到不太庄重，伊格尔哈特说周日晚上他不会去豪华餐厅用餐。他和妻子将去麦当劳用餐，因为这能让他保持谦逊。然后“我们回家，和猫玩一会儿，这能让我们知道生活仍是真实的”。
Mr. Leon, the best director in a play, began his acceptance speech by naming one of his stars — “Denzel, Denzel, Denzel” — Denzel Washington, who missed out on a Tony nomination (though he won in 2010 for “Fences,” which Mr. Leon also directed). Ms. Okonedo thanked, among others, the lead producer of “Raisin,” Scott Rudin, for believing that “a Jewish Nigerian Brit could come over the pond and play” Ruth Younger, one of the great female roles in American theater.
最佳话剧导演奖获得者利昂在获奖感言的开头提到了他的明星演员之一——“丹泽尔，丹泽尔，丹泽尔”——丹泽尔·华盛顿(Denzel Washington)。丹泽尔没有获得今年的托尼奖提名（虽然他2010年凭借《樊篱》[Fences]获得了托尼奖，那部戏也是利昂导演的）。奥克妮多除了感谢其他人，还感谢了《葡萄干》的主要制片人斯科特·鲁丁(Scott Rudin)，因为他相信“一个尼日利亚裔英国犹太人能够到大西洋彼岸扮演”露丝·扬格(Ruth Younger)——美国戏剧中最伟大的女性角色之一。
While many winners are still running on Broadway, one musical, “The Bridges of Madison County,” was two-for-two in Tonys midway through the ceremony despite closing last month because of poor ticket sales. Jason Robert Brown won for best orchestrations and then for best score for “Bridges,” which was one of the few nominees not represented by a production number on the CBS telecast. (Each Broadway show’s producers have to pay five- and six-figure sums for these numbers; those for “Bridges” lost millions of dollars when the musical closed.)
大多数获奖剧目仍在百老汇上演，但是两项提名获奖的《廊桥遗梦》(The Bridges of Madison County)由于票房不佳上个月已经停演了。詹森·罗伯特·布朗(Jason Robert Brown)凭借《廊桥遗梦》获得了最佳编曲奖和最佳配乐奖，它是少数几个在哥伦比亚广播公司的直播中没有表演节目的提名剧目之一（每个百老汇剧目的制作人们必须为这些表演节目支付五至六位数的金额。《廊桥遗梦》停演时，该剧的制作人们损失了成百上千万美元）。
“I hope you enjoyed that intro because that’s all the music you’re going to hear from ‘The Bridges of Madison County’ tonight,” said Mr. Brown, a past Tony winner for “Parade,” referring to the music that played before he accepted the best score Tony. (He went on to thank several people.)
“我希望你们喜欢简介里的那段音乐，因为那是你们今晚唯一能听到的《廊桥遗梦》中的音乐，”布朗说。他说的是他领取托尼奖最佳配乐奖之前播放的那段音乐（他接着感谢了几个人）。他曾经凭借《游行》(Parade)获得托尼奖。
The Tonys ceremony on Sunday differed from years past in its lack of clear front-runners in several major categories. In some cases this was good: The races for best play revival and for best actress in a play and in a musical allowed for some surprises because, rather than one obvious choice, there were so many strong contenders. But in other top races, like for best musical and best play, the nominees didn’t fire up many voters.
周日的托尼奖颁奖礼和之前几届的不同之处在于几个主要门类中没有明显的领跑者。从某种意义上讲，这是好事：最佳复排话剧以及最佳话剧类和音乐剧类女主角的竞赛会出现出人意料的结果，因为很多候选人都很优秀，没有哪个明显优于其他人。但是在其他一些顶级竞赛项目中，比如最佳音乐剧和最佳话剧，提名剧目没有点燃很多投票者的热情。
The Tonys ceremony itself had more of a ratings-driven, commercial-entertainment feel than in some recent telecasts. The telecast featured numbers from two shows that weren’t part of the 2013-14 season, an unusual but not unprecedented move. One of those shows, “The Last Ship,” is opening on Broadway in the fall; Sting, who wrote the score, performed a song. (The broadcast also touted a forthcoming musical based on the life of other pop music performers, Gloria and Emilio Estefan.)
托尼奖颁奖礼本身比最近的其他一些直播颁奖礼更像追求收视率的商业娱乐。颁奖礼中有些表演来自非2013-2014季的两个剧目，这不常见，但也不是前所未有。其中一个剧目《最后的船》(The Last Ship)将于秋季在百老汇开演。该剧的音乐作者斯廷演唱了其中一首歌（这次颁奖礼还宣传了一个即将上演的音乐剧，它是根据流行音乐表演家格洛丽亚和埃米利奥·埃斯特芬[Gloria and Emilio Estefan]的人生改编的)。
The other show, “Finding Neverland,” is opening this summer in Cambridge, Mass., but has no official Broadway plans; the song from “Neverland” was performed by the Oscar winner Jennifer Hudson, who is not a part of the “Neverland” cast. The Hudson performance — which received the prime 11 o’clock number spot in the CBS telecast — was engineered by Tonys executives and Harvey Weinstein, the movie mogul who is making his debut as a lead theatrical producer with “Finding Neverland.”
另一个剧目《寻找梦幻岛》(Finding Neverland)今年夏天将在马萨诸塞州剑桥市上演，但还没有在百老汇上演的正式计划。《寻找梦幻岛》中的歌曲由奥斯卡获奖者詹妮弗·哈德森(Jennifer Hudson)演唱，她不是《寻找梦幻岛》的演员。哈德森的演唱在直播中的11点黄金时间进行，这是托尼奖主管们和哈维·温斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)策划的。电影大亨温斯坦正凭借《寻找梦幻岛》以主要戏剧制作人的身份首次亮相。
The Tonys were determined by a pool of more than 800 voters, about 70 percent of whom usually cast ballots. (Many of the others decline to vote because they did not see many shows.) The voters are a mix of theater producers, directors, designers, actors and tour operators, some of whom have financial and personal interests in the outcomes.
托尼奖由800多名投票者决定，其中约70%通常会投票（其他很多人拒绝投票，因为很多戏剧他们没看）。投票者包括戏剧制作人、导演、设计师、演员和巡演承办者，投票结果牵涉到其中一些人的经济和个人利益。