FICTION
小说
DONNA TARTT
唐娜·塔特(Donna Tartt)
“The Goldfinch” (Little, Brown)
《金翅雀》(The Goldfinch)，利特尔，布朗出版社(Little, Brown)
Ms. Tartt’s best-selling novel is about a boy who comes into possession of a painting after an explosion at a museum.
塔特的畅销书讲述了一个男孩在一次博物馆爆炸后得到了一幅油画的故事。
In a phone conversation on Monday, Ms. Tartt, 50, said the novel “was always about a child who had stolen a painting,” but it was only two years into writing the book that she saw “The Goldfinch,” a 17th-century work by Carel Fabritius.
50岁的塔特在周一接受电话采访时说，这部小说“是关于一个偷油画的孩子的故事”，但在开始创作这本书两年后，她才看到《金翅雀》，这幅17世纪画家卡莱尔·法布里契亚(Carel Fabritius)的作品。
“It fit into the plot of the book I was writing in ways I couldn’t have imagined,” she said. “It had to be a small painting that a child could carry, and that a child could be obsessed by.”
“它出乎意料地适合我创作这本书时的构思，”她说。“它必须非常小，一个孩子可以拿得动，也会令一个孩子迷恋不已。”
Finalists Philipp Meyer, “The Son”; Bob Shacochis, “The Woman Who Lost Her Soul.”
最终入围名单：菲利普·梅尔(Philipp Meyer)，《儿子》(The Son)；鲍勃·沙克奇斯(Bob Shacochis)，《失去灵魂的女人》(The Woman Who Lost Her Soul)。
DRAMA
戏剧
ANNIE BAKER
安妮·贝克(Annie Baker)
“The Flick”
《电影》(The Flick)
Ms. Baker’s wry drama about three misfits who work at a movie theater features long, lifelike silences in sometimes-awkward conversations.
贝克这部嘲讽的喜剧是关于三个在影院工作，无法适应环境的人，漫长沉重的沉默不时出现在笨拙的对话中间。
One of the fastest-rising playwrights in New York, Ms. Baker, 33, drew inspiration for her play from its unusual setting: a theater where the rows of seats faced the play’s audience.
贝克33岁，是纽约迅速崛起的剧作家之一，这部剧本的灵感来自它那非同寻常的背景：一座剧院，椅子面向舞台剧的观众们。
“I thought about it for years before I started writing — the idea of characters looking up at the screen, but facing the audience,” Ms. Baker said in a telephone interview.
“我在动笔之前已经构思多年——就是这个角色们仰头看着屏幕，但是面向舞台剧观众的创意，”贝克在接受电话采访时说。
Finalists Madeleine George, “The (Curious Case of the) Watson Intelligence”; Lisa Kron, book and lyrics, Jeanine Tesori, music, “Fun Home.”
最终入围名单：玛德琳娜·乔治(Madeleine George)，《人工智能华生（奇事）》(The [Curious Case of the]Watson Intelligence)；丽莎·克朗(Lisa Kron)：原著与歌词，吉尼娜·特索利(Jeanine Tesor)：音乐，《搞笑之家》(Fun Home)
HISTORY
历史
ALAN TAYLOR
艾伦·泰勒(Alan Taylor)
“The Internal Enemy: Slavery and War in Virginia, 1772-1832” (W.W. Norton)
《内部敌人：奴隶制与弗吉尼亚的战争，1772-1832》(The Internal Enemy: Slavery and War in Virginia, 1772-1832)，W·W·诺顿出版社(W.W. Norton)。
At the heart of Mr. Taylor’s book is the War of 1812, when thousands of slaves sought liberty by escaping to the British side, in what Mr. Taylor, a professor at the University of Virginia, calls “incredible acts of resourcefulness and courage.”
泰勒这本书的核心是关于1812年战争，当时有上千名奴隶为获自由投靠英国一方，弗吉尼亚大学教授泰勒说，这是“不可思议的行为，显示了智慧与勇气。”
Mr. Taylor, 58, drew on records of a commission to compensate slave owners for their lost property. “It was a great opportunity to be able to tell a story about the nature of slavery and freedom in the early years of the Republic,” he said.
泰勒现年58岁，本书主要依据当时一个赔偿奴隶主损失的委员会的记载。“这是个好机会，可以用来讲述共和国早年的奴隶制与自由的本质”
Finalists Jacqueline Jones, “A Dreadful Deceit: The Myth of Race From the Colonial Era to Obama’s America”; Eric Schlosser, “Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus Accident and the Illusion of Safety.”
最终入围名单：杰奎琳·琼斯(Jacqueline Jones)，《可怕的欺骗：从殖民时代到奥巴马的美国的种族神话》(A Dreadful Deceit: The Myth of Race from the Colonial Era to Obama’s America)；埃里克·施洛瑟(Eric Schlosser)，《命令与控制：核武器，大马士革事件与安全的幻觉》(Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus Accident and the Illusion of Safety)。
BIOGRAPHY
传记
MEGAN MARSHALL
梅根·马歇尔(Megan Marshall)
“Margaret Fuller: A New American Life” (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
《玛格丽特·富勒：新美国生活》(Margaret Fuller: A New American Life)，休顿·米弗林·哈科特出版社(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)。
Ms. Marshall used to think that Margaret Fuller — the pioneering writer, critic and women’s rights advocate who died in a shipwreck in 1850 — was too well known to need a new biography.
玛格丽特·富勒是一位先锋作家、评论家与女权主义的鼓吹者，1850年死于船难，马歇尔本来觉得她太有名，并不需要一本新的传记。
But when mentioned, her name drew only blank looks, said Ms. Marshall, 59, who teaches at Emerson College. “I had to go back and rectify that.”
但是，当她向人们提起富勒时，却只换来茫然的眼神。马歇尔现年59岁，在爱默生大学任教，她说，“我只好回过头去，纠正这个问题。”
She added, “As I immersed myself in her life and began hearing her voice, I fell back in love with her.”
她还说，“当我沉浸在她的生平之中，开始倾听她的声音时，我开始爱上她了。”
Finalists Leo Damrosch, “Jonathan Swift: His Life and His World”; Jonathan Sperber, “Karl Marx: A Nineteenth-Century Life.”
最终入围名单：里奥·达姆罗施(Leo Damrosch)，《乔纳森·斯威夫特：他的生平与他的世界》(Jonathan Swift: His Life and His World)；乔纳森·斯珀波(Jonathan Sperber)：《卡尔·马克思：19世纪的生活》(Karl Marx: A Nineteenth-Century Life)。
GENERAL NONFICTION
非虚构类
DAN FAGIN
丹·费金(Dan Fagin)
“Toms River: A Story of Science and Salvation” (Bantam Books)
《汤姆斯河：科学与救赎的故事》(Tomes River: A Story of Science and Salvation)，班塔姆出版社(Bantam Books)
Mr. Fagin, 51, was cited by the board for his book “that deftly combines investigative reporting and historical research to probe a New Jersey seashore town’s cluster of childhood cancers linked to water and air pollution.”
费金现年51岁，评奖委员会称赞他的书“巧妙地把调查报道与历史研究结合起来，探索了一座新泽西海滨小镇与水质和空气污染相关的儿童群发癌症事件。”
He was able to finish the book when he joined New York University to teach science journalism. He said that he wanted to show readers how patterns of illness are studied “to figure out the relationship between what is happening in our environment and human health.”
费金在进入纽约大学教授科学新闻之后完成了这本书。他说自己希望向读者展示，疾病模式的研究可以“发现环境与人类健康之间正在发生的联系”。
Finalists Gary J. Bass, “The Blood Telegram: Nixon, Kissinger and a Forgotten Genocide”; Fred Kaplan, “The Insurgents: David Petraeus and the Plot to Change the American Way of War.”
最终入围名单：加里·J·巴斯(Gary J. Bass)，《血之电文：尼克松·基辛格与被遗忘的种族灭绝》(The Blood Telegram: Nixon, Kissinger and a Forgotten Genocide)；弗莱德·卡普兰(Fred Kaplan)，《叛乱者：大卫·佩崔斯与改变美国战争模式的计划》(The Insurgents: David Petraeus and the Plot to Change the American Way of War)。
MUSIC
音乐
JOHN LUTHER ADAMS
约翰·路德·亚当斯(John Luther Adams)
“Become Ocean” (Taiga Press/Theodore Front Musical Literature)
《成为海洋》(Become Ocean)，泰加出版/西奥多前沿音乐文学(Taiga Press/Theodore Front Musical Literature)
The Pulitzer committee called “Become Ocean” a “haunting orchestral work that suggests a relentless tidal surge, evoking thoughts of melting polar ice and rising sea levels.”
普利策评奖委员会说《成为海洋》是一部“余音绕梁的交响乐，描绘出无休无止的海潮，令人联想到正在融化的极地冰山与升高的海平线”。
Mr. Adams, 61, said he composed the piece while on the Pacific coast in Mexico, but that it was also inspired by Alaska, where he lived for decades. “What I really hope is that the music now has become its own place,” he said of the work, which the Seattle Symphony will play on May 6 at Carnegie Hall.
亚当斯现年61岁，他说自己是在墨西哥的太平洋海岸谱写了这首乐曲，但也从他生活了几十年的阿拉斯加获得灵感。“我希望这首乐曲真的成为海洋，”他说。这首乐曲将由西雅图交响乐团于5月6日在卡耐基音乐厅演奏。
Finalists John Adams, “The Gospel According to the Other Mary”; Christopher Cerrone, “Invisible Cities.”
最终入围名单：约翰·亚当斯，《根据另一个玛利写下的福音书》(The Gospel According to the Other Mary)； 克里斯托弗·克罗恩(Christopher Cerrone)，《看不见的城市》(Invisible Cities)。
POETRY
诗歌
VIJAY SESHADRI
维杰·赛沙德利(Vijay Seshadri)
“3 Sections” (Graywolf Press)
《三个片段》(3 Sections)，格雷沃夫出版社(Graywolf Press)
In his third poetry collection, Mr. Seshadri explores contemporary American life and identity in a triptych consisting of short, lyrical poems, a long poem titled “Personal Essay” and a prose essay about fishing in the Canadian Pacific. “I always wanted to write a book whose title reflected its form,” Mr. Seshadri, 60, said in a telephone interview from his home in Brooklyn. “I envisioned seven, but I only made it to three.”
这是赛沙德利的第三部诗集，其中有一组短小、歌词般的三联诗探索了当代美国的生活与身份认同，还有一首名为《个人散文》(Personal Essay)的长诗，以及一首关于在加拿大的太平洋海域捕鱼的散文诗。“我一直都想写一本书，书名就能反映出这本书的形式，”现年60岁的赛沙德利在布鲁克林家中接受电话采访时说，“我本想写七首，但最后只是三首。”
Finalists Morri Creech, “The Sleep of Reason”; Adrian Matejka, “The Big Smoke.”
最终入围名单：莫里·克里奇(Morri Creech)，《理性的沉眠》(The Sleep of Reason)；阿德里安·马特耶卡(Adrian Matejka)，《巨大烟雾》(The Big Smoke)。
PUBLIC SERVICE
公共服务类
GUARDIAN U.S.
《卫报》美国版(Guardian U.S.)
THE WASHINGTON POST
《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)
The Post and Guardian U.S. were recognized, separately, for their reporting based on classified documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden that revealed “widespread secret surveillance by the National Security Agency.” The revelations have led President Obama to call for a public debate over “the right balance between protecting our security and preserving our freedoms,” even as the United States government has charged Mr. Snowden — who was granted asylum by Russia — with violating the Espionage Act.
《华盛顿邮报》与《卫报》美国版分别因报道爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的机密文件而获奖，这些文件揭露了“国家安全局大规模秘密监控计划”。尽管美国政府指控斯诺登违反《反间谍法》，但这些披露报道迫使奥巴马总统公开讨论“保卫安全与保护自由之间的平衡”。斯诺登已获得俄罗斯庇护。
Using material leaked by Mr. Snowden, a former agency contractor, Guardian U.S. — an offshoot of the British newspaper The Guardian — and The Washington Post revealed a once-secret world of court rulings and surveillance tactics that allow the government to track domestic and international communications.
《卫报》美国版是英国《卫报》的旁支，它与《华盛顿邮报》使用前国安局承包商雇员斯诺登泄露的材料，披露出一个一度不为人知的世界，法院规定和监控手段令政府可以追踪国内外的各种通讯情况。
The documentary filmmaker Laura Poitras, 50, who was researching government surveillance, put Mr. Snowden in touch with Glenn Greenwald, 47, a lawyer and civil liberties advocate who was a columnist at Guardian U.S., and Barton Gellman, 53, a former Washington Post reporter who returned there to publish his work.
50岁的记录片制作者劳拉·博伊特拉斯(Laura Poitras)在研究政府监控措施时，帮助斯诺登与47岁律师、公民自由宣传者与《卫报》美国版的专栏作家格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)，以及53岁的《华盛顿邮报》前记者巴顿·戈尔曼(Barton Gellman)取得了联系，戈尔曼随后回到《华盛顿邮报》发表了这篇报道。
Finalists Newsday, Long Island.
最终入围名单：《新闻日报》(Newsady)，长岛。
BREAKING NEWS REPORTING
突发新闻报道
STAFF, THE BOSTON GLOBE
《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)员工
The Globe was awarded the prize for its reporting on the Boston Marathon bombing and the subsequent manhunt that left a terrified city in a daylong lockdown. The committee cited The Globe’s “exhaustive and empathetic coverage” and also its use of “photography and a range of digital tools to capture the full impact of the tragedy.” On its own website, the paper struck a somber note: “With the one-year anniversary of the bombings on Tuesday, and the 118th running of the race scheduled for next Monday, the region is remembering the pain of the bombings and vowing to move resolutely forward.”
《波士顿环球报》因报道波士顿马拉松爆炸案及其后对疑犯的搜捕而获奖，该搜捕令这座惊恐的城市在一整天内都处于一级防范状态。普利策委员会称《波士顿环球报》的报道“详尽无遗，令人感同身受”，并且使用“组照和各种数码工具，捕捉到这场悲剧的整体冲击。”《波士顿环球报》在报纸网站上发表了一条忧郁庄严的声明：“周二我们将迎来爆炸案一周年纪念日，下周一将举行这项马拉松赛的第118届赛事，这一地区铭记爆炸案所带来的痛苦，决心继续坚定前行。”
Finalists Staff, The Arizona Republic; Staff, The Washington Post.
最终入围名单：《亚利桑那共和报》(The Arizona Republic)员工；《华盛顿邮报》员工。
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING
调查性报道
CHRIS HAMBY
克里斯·汉比(Chris Hamby)
The Center for Public Integrity, Washington.
公共诚信中心，华盛顿
Mr. Hamby’s three-part, 25,000-word series exposed how coal miners suffering from black lung disease were denied benefits through “a rigged system” of industry-hired doctors and lawyers, in the words of the Pulitzer committee. The reporting by Mr. Hamby, 28, which also was the basis of ABC News reports, earned the first Pulitzer Prize for the nonprofit, nonpartisan center, which is 25 years old. Mr. Hamby said, “The backbone of the articles were the documents and the data, but the heart of this was the miners themselves, the stories of all the suffering they have gone through and the hardships they have faced.”
汉比的报道分为三部分，共25000字，普利策委员会说，该文披露了患上黑肺病的矿工们如何被企业聘用的医生与律师所组成的“舞弊体系”拒付福利。汉比现年28岁，这篇报道亦成为ABC新闻报道的基础，同时也为这个拥有25年历史的非盈利、无党派中心赢得了第一个普利策奖。汉比说：“这些报道的主轴是文件和数据，但核心却是矿工们自己，他们所经历所有的痛苦，以及他们面对的所有困难。”
Finalists Megan Twohey, Reuters; Cynthia Hubert and Phillip Reese, The Sacramento Bee.
最终入围名单：梅根·吐赫(Megan Twohey)，路透社；辛西娅·赫伯特(Cynthia Hubert)与菲利普·里斯(Phillip Rees)，《萨拉门托蜜蜂报》(The Sacramento Bee)。
LOCAL REPORTING
地方报道奖
WILL HOBSON
威尔·霍布森(Will Hobson)
MICHAEL LaFORGIA
迈克尔·拉福尔贾(Michael laForgia)
The Tampa Bay Times, St. Petersburg, Fla.
《坦帕湾时报》(The Tampa Bay Times)，佛罗里达州圣彼德斯堡
The Pulitzer committee singled out Mr. Hobson, 29, and Mr. LaForgia, 30, for articles that documented how a county agency placed homeless people, including children, in unsafe living conditions. Their series chronicled a trail of money from public coffers to operators of squalid rental units across the county.
普利策评委会将该奖授予29岁的霍布森和30岁的拉福尔贾是因为他们的文章记录了一个县机构如何把无家可归的人，包括儿童，置于不安全的生活环境中。他们的系列文章详细记录了该县公共金库中的钱如何流入了肮脏的租赁公寓的经营者手中。
The committee praised the reporters for “their relentless investigation” and noted that the revelations led to “swift reforms.”
评委会称赞这两位记者进行了“不懈的调查”，指出他们的报道引发了“迅速的改革”。
“They fired one manager overseeing the agency,” Mr. Hobson said in an interview. “Another manager resigned. They shuttered the agency. And they outsourced homeless services to several nonprofits.”
“他们解雇了监管该机构的一个主管，”霍布森在采访中说，“另一个主管辞职了。他们关闭了该机构。他们把对救助无家可归人员的服务外包给了几个非营利机构。”
Finalists Joan Garrett McClane, Todd South, Doug Strickland and Mary Helen Miller, The Chattanooga Times Free Press; Rebecca O’Brien and Thomas Mashberg, The Record, Woodland Park, N.J.
最终入围名单：琼·加勒特·麦克兰(Joan Garrett McClane)，托德·索思(Todd South)，道格·斯特里克兰(Doug Strickland)和玛丽·海伦·米勒(Mary Helen Miller)，查特怒加自由时报(Chattanooga Times Free Press)；丽贝卡·奥布莱恩(Rebecca O’Brien)和托马斯·马什伯格(Thomas Mashberg)，《纪事报》(The Record)，新泽西州伍德兰公园区。
EXPLANATORY REPORTING
解释性报道奖
ELI SASLOW
伊莱·塞斯罗(Eli Saslow)
The Washington Post
《华盛顿邮报》
The board praised Mr. Saslow, a 31-year-old staff writer, for his “unsettling and nuanced reporting” in a series of articles about the prevalence of food stamps in communities throughout America, including a town in Rhode Island whose economy revolves around the monthly payments and a family in Washington coping with cuts to the program. “These people have let you into their lives at these vulnerable times,” Mr. Saslow said of the subjects of his reporting, “and the way to repay that is to write full, honest stories about the things they are dealing with.”
评委会称赞31岁的特约撰稿人塞斯罗的“报道令人不安，细致入微”。他写了一系列文章，讲述在美国各地许多社区普遍存在的食品券，包括罗德岛的一个小镇，那里的经济围绕着每月补贴进行，以及华盛顿的一个家庭，他们在想办法应对该计划的补助金额缩减。“在这些脆弱的时期，这些人让你进入他们的生活，”塞斯罗谈起自己的报道对象时说，“我回报的方式是完整、诚实地写出他们正在应对的事情。”
Finalists Dennis Overbye, The New York Times; Les Zaitz, The Oregonian, Portland.
最终入围名单：丹尼斯·奥弗比(Dennis Overbye)，《纽约时报》；莱斯·扎伊茨(Les Zaitz)，《俄勒冈人》(The Oregonian)，波特兰。
NATIONAL REPORTING
国内新闻报道奖
DAVID PHILIPPS
大卫·菲利普斯(David Philipps)
The Gazette, Colorado Springs, Colo.
《公报》(The Gazette)，科罗拉多州科泉市
A series by Mr. Philipps won the award for covering the treatment of often severely wounded veterans of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and how they sometimes lose benefits for life after just minor offenses. The board cited the piece for using digital tools to tell the story and instigating a congressional investigation. Mr. Philipps, 36, was a finalist in 2010 for another series about violent crimes committed by veterans.
菲利普斯撰写了一系列文章，报道在阿富汗战争和伊拉克战争中严重受伤的退伍老兵受到的治疗以及他们有时因为轻微犯罪而失去生活保障的情况。评委会表彰这一系列文章，是因为它采用数字手段讲述故事，引发了国会的调查。36岁的菲利普斯在2010年因为另一个关于退伍老兵暴力犯罪的系列文章而入围最终入围名单。
Finalists John Emshwiller and Jeremy Singer-Vine, The Wall Street Journal; Jon Hilsenrath, The Wall Street Journal.
最终入围名单：约翰·埃姆什威勒(John Emshwiller)和杰里米·辛格-瓦因(Jeremy Singer-Vine)，《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)；乔恩·希尔森拉特(Jon Hilsenrath)，《华尔街日报》。
INTERNATIONAL REPORTING
国际新闻报道奖
JASON SZEP
杰森·赛普(Jason Szep)
ANDREW R. C. MARSHALL
安德鲁·R·C·马歇尔(Andrew R. C. Marshall)
Reuters
路透社
Mr. Szep, 45, and Mr. Marshall investigated the plight of the Rohingya, a persecuted Muslim minority in Myanmar who have frequently fallen into a web of trafficking and slave labor while trying to escape the country. The board noted the “courageous reports” that exposed the violent actions of Buddhist monks and the complicity of officials in Myanmar and Thailand. Stephen J. Adler, the editor in chief of Reuters, said the articles brought “the international dimensions” of the Rohingya to wider attention.
45岁的赛普和马歇尔调查了缅甸受迫害的穆斯林少数族裔罗辛亚人的困境，他们在试图逃离这个国家时经常陷入走私和奴役网络。评委会指出，这些“大胆的报道”揭露了佛教僧徒们的暴行以及缅甸和泰国官员们的勾结。路透社的主编斯蒂芬·J·阿德勒(Stephen J. Adler)说，这些文章让罗辛亚人的“国际境况”得到了更广泛的关注。
Finalists Rukmini Callimachi, The Associated Press; Raja Abdulrahim and Patrick McDonnell, The Los Angeles Times.
最终入围名单：鲁克米尼·卡利马基(Rukmini Callimachi)，美联社；拉贾·阿卜杜勒-拉希姆(Raja Abdulrahim)和帕特里克·麦克唐奈(Patrick McDonnell)，《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)。
COMMENTARY
社论奖
STEPHEN HENDERSON
斯蒂芬·亨德森(Stephen Henderson)
The Detroit Free Press
《底特律自由新闻报》(The Detroit Free Press)
The committee cited Mr. Henderson, the editorial page editor for The Free Press, for writing passionate, unsparing columns on the financial crisis in his home city. Mr. Henderson, 43, said, “I always tried to put a little speck of hope into the darkest chapter in the city’s history. We’re down but we’re not out.”
评委员表彰《自由新闻报》的社论版编辑亨德森是因为他写了很多激情澎湃的、毫不留情的关于底特律金融危机的专栏。43岁的亨德森说，“我总是努力给这个城市历史上最黑暗的时期加入一点希望。我们在衰落，但是我们没有出局。”
Finalists Kevin Cullen, The Boston Globe; Lisa Falkenberg, The Houston Chronicle.
最终入围名单：凯文·卡伦(Kevin Cullen)，《波士顿环球报》；丽莎·法尔肯贝格(Lisa Falkenberg)，《休斯顿纪事报》(The Houston Chronicle)。
CRITICISM
评论奖
INGA SAFFRON
因加·萨弗隆(Inga Saffron)
The Philadelphia Inquirer
《费城询问报》(The Philadelphia Inquirer)
As the paper’s architecture critic, Ms. Saffron, 56, has covered everything from the relative beauty of different bike racks to threats to the city’s river views by new garage complexes. “I’ve been a finalist three times and I’ve been nominated by The Inquirer at least 10 times,” she said. “Because I have been a finalist a lot, I just thought I would never win this. It feels amazing; really nice, but also kind of unbelievable.”
56岁的萨弗隆是该报的建筑评论员，她报道的内容广泛，从不同自行车停放架的相对美感到新汽车修理厂综合建筑对该市河景的影响。“我三次入围最终入围名单，至少十次获得《询问报》的提名，”她说，“因为我进入决赛太多次了，我想我永远也得不了这个奖了。这让人吃惊；太棒了，还有点难以置信。”
Finalists Mary McNamara, The Los Angeles Times; Jen Graves, The Stranger, Seattle.
最终入围名单：玛丽·麦克纳马拉，《洛杉矶时报》；珍·格拉夫斯(Jen Graves)，《陌生人》(The Stranger)，西雅图。
EDITORIAL WRITING
社论写作奖
THE EDITORIAL STAFF
编辑部
THE OREGONIAN, PORTLAND
《俄勒冈人》，波特兰
The Oregonian was recognized for 10 editorials that were part of its extended commentary on a long-term preoccupation in Oregon: public-employee pension reform.
《俄勒冈人》获得评委会肯定是因为它的十篇社论，这些社论是它关于长期困扰俄勒冈的一个社会问题——公务员退休金改革——的扩展评论的一部分。
The winning editorials particularly pressed a Democratic governor, John Kitzhaber, and a Democrat-dominated Legislature to trim what were described as unsustainable public-pension programs, though many Democrats have been supported by the state’s public employee unions, The Oregonian’s submission letter noted.
获胜的社论特别敦促民主党主管约翰·基察伯(John Kitzhaber)以及一个由民主党主导的立法机关削减难以维持的公共退休金计划，不过《俄勒冈人》的推荐信提到，很多民主党人得到了该州公务员工会的支持。
Finalists Dante Ramos, The Boston Globe; Andie Dominick, The Des Moines Register. 
最终入围名单：丹特·拉莫斯(Dante Ramos)，《波士顿环球报》；安迪·多明尼克(Andie Dominick)，《得梅因纪事报》(The Des Moines Register)。
EDITORIAL CARTOONING
社论漫画奖
KEVIN SIERS
凯文·西尔斯(Kevin Siers)
The Charlotte Observer
《夏洛特观察家报》(The Charlotte Observer)
Mr. Siers, 59, was singled out by the Pulitzer committee for cartoons on subjects like health insurance, the new pope and secret surveillance. The prize committee praised his work as “thought provoking.”
59岁的西尔斯被普利策奖评委会选中是因为他画的关于健康保险、新教皇和秘密监听等主题的漫画。评委会称赞他的作品“引人深思”。
Finalists David Horsey, The Los Angeles Times; Pat Bagley, The Salt Lake Tribune. 
最终入围名单：大卫·霍西(David Horsey)，《洛杉矶时报》；帕特·巴格雷(Pat Bagley)，《盐湖论坛报》(The Salt Lake Tribune)。
BREAKING NEWS PHOTOGRAPHY
突发新闻摄影奖
TYLER HICKS
泰勒·希克斯(Tyler Hicks)
The New York Times
《纽约时报》
Mr. Hicks, who had recently married, was picking up wedding gifts in central Nairobi when Somali militants opened fire with machine guns at a nearby mall. He arrived moments later at a chaotic scene — blood and bodies were everywhere and the terrorists remained at large — and went to work with the small camera he always carried. Mr. Hicks, 44, who was cited by the committee for his “skill and bravery,” began working with The Times in 1999 and was part of a Times team that won the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting.
新婚的希克斯在内罗毕市中心领取结婚礼物时，索马里武装分子在附近的购物中心用机关枪开火。他很快赶到混乱现场——到处都是鲜血和尸体，恐怖分子仍未被控制——用总是随身携带的小相机拍照。44岁的希克斯因其“技巧和勇敢”得到评委会的表彰。他1999年加入《纽约时报》。本报2009年获得普利策国际新闻报道奖时，他是团队成员之一。
Finalists John Tlumacki and David L. Ryan of The Boston Globe; Goran Tomasevic of Reuters.
最终入围名单：约翰·特鲁麦基(John Tlumacki)和大卫·L·赖安(David L. Ryan)，《波士顿环球报》；戈兰·托马舍维奇(Goran Tomasevic)，路透社。
FEATURE PHOTOGRAPHY
专题摄影奖
JOSH HANER
乔希·哈纳(Josh Haner)
The New York Times
《纽约时报》
Mr. Haner spent nearly three months documenting the painful recovery and early rehabilitation of Jeff Bauman, a 28-year-old man who lost both his legs in the Boston Marathon bombings. Cited by the Pulitzer committee for his “moving essay” of photographs, Mr. Haner, 34, joined The New York Times in 2004 and is now a staff photographer and the senior editor for photo technology.
哈纳花了差不多三个月时间记录在波士顿马拉松爆炸案中丧失双腿的、28岁的杰夫·鲍曼(Jeff Bauman)痛苦的恢复和早期复原过程。普利策评委会称赞哈纳为照片配上了“感人的文字”。34岁的哈纳2004年加入《纽约时报》，现在是特约摄影师兼照片技术高级编辑。
Finalists Lacy Atkins of The San Francisco Chronicle; Michael Williamson of The Washington Post.
最终入围名单：莱西·阿特金斯(Lacy Atkins)，《旧金山纪事报》(The San Francisco Chronicle)；迈克尔·威廉姆森(Michael Williamson)，《华盛顿邮报》。
FEATURE WRITING
专题写作奖
NO AWARD
空缺
The Pulitzer Prize for feature writing went to no one, an unusual but not unprecedented decision that typically means that no finalist mustered the mandatory majority of votes. (The 2012 prize for fiction went unawarded, for instance, the 11th time in that category’s history.) The last year in which no feature writing award was given was 2004.
普利策专题写作奖没有授予任何人，这个决定不常见，但也并非没有先例。这通常是因为没有哪篇作品得到了规定的多数票（比如，普利策奖第11次出现小说类奖项空缺）。上次专题写作奖空缺是在2004年。
Finalists Scott Farwell, The Dallas Morning News; Christopher Goffard, The Los Angeles Times; Mark Johnson, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.
最终入围名单：斯科特·法韦尔(Scott Farwell)，《达拉斯晨报》(The Dallas Morning News)；克里斯托弗·戈法尔(Christopher Goffard)，《洛杉矶时报》；马克·约翰逊(Mark Johnson)，《密尔沃基哨兵日报》(The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel)。