Break a resolution yet? If any were travel-related, here’s some good news: In 2014, you can save while staying the traveler that you are.
新年计划突破预算了？如果与旅行有关，我这儿有个好消息：2014年，你依然能够自由旅行，同时还能省钱。
In other words, set your nonnegotiable standards, then minimize costs and maximize value. For example: Let’s say you refuse to sleep in the same room with a stranger. That means you won’t be staying in hostels, so concentrate on lowering costs on hotel stays or short-term rentals.
换句话说，先设定一个不可更改的标准，然后将成本压到最低，让收益最大化。举个例子，你决定永远不跟陌生人睡同一个房间，那意味着你不能住青旅之类的客栈，而要用心寻找廉价酒店或者短租房。
Here are four issues about which budget travelers of good faith can differ, and some tips on cutting costs no matter which side of the debate you’re on.
尽管诚实守信的经济旅行者对下面四个问题的看法有所不同，但我们提供的小贴士能让争议双方都省钱。
A Room of One’s Own?
想要自己专属的房间？
This is no longer just a hostel versus hotel debate. Private rentals through Airbnb have long been in the mainstream, and hospitality exchange sites like Couchsurfing and BeWelcome are thriving — two visitors from Lyon, France, who found me through Couchsurfing, are staying in my living room even as I write this.
这不仅仅是客栈与酒店之间的取舍。通过Airbnb网站进行私人房屋租赁早已成为主流，而Couchsurfing和BeWelcome等交换住宿网站也欣欣向荣。有两名来自法国里昂的旅行者通过Couchsurfing网站找到了我，在我撰写此文期间，他俩就在我家客厅里住宿。
Hostels, however, will still be the mainstay for backpacker types. Many use the big booking sites Hostelbookers.com or Hostelworld.com, but it’s also worth getting to know Hostelz.com, a search aggregator not unlike Kayak. 
可是，青旅之类的客栈仍将是大多数背包客的首选。他们通常通过大型网站Hostelbookers.com或Hostelworld.com预订，但Hostelz.com仍然值得了解一下，这是个聚合搜索引擎，与Kayak功能不一样。
You’ll get to compare prices for Hostelbookers and Hostelworld (as well as the Eurocentric site HostelsClub). But even better, the site also shows ratings from all the sites, as well as lengthier reviews Hostelz pays travelers to write. That’s especially important, because hostels vary as widely as hotels in comfort and cleanliness.
你可以查看Hostelbookers与Hostelworld网站（以及聚焦欧洲的HostelsClub网站），对比客房价格。但更好的消息是，Hostelz网站对其他网站上的住宿信息进行了评级，用户评论更详尽，Hostelz还对这些提交了评论的旅行者付了稿费。这一点尤为重要，因为客栈跟酒店一样，在舒适和卫生方面，不同的店家差别相当大。
For those who need their privacy, don’t write off Airbnb; you can set filters to show you only private rooms or even entire houses. And despite the name, I’ve found that many Couchsurfing hosts (though not me) offer spare bedrooms.
哪怕你特别看重隐私空间，也不要想当然地划掉Airbnb网站，因为只要设定过滤器，它就会只显示那些提供独立房间甚至整套房屋的搜索结果。尽管Airbnb网站名字里有bnb（指bed and breakfast，只有床位与早餐），但我发现上面许多沙发客的房东其实也有富余的卧室供应（但我没有）。
If you really want to stick with just hotels, there are ever more ways to save. Two new sites monitor hotel prices after you reserve in case prices go down: TripRebel simply refunds you the difference, and TripBAM alerts you if the price drops in the same or nearby hotels and offers to rebook your reservation. For the truly picky, TheSuitest uses hotel features and amenities to calculate a room’s value relative to its price, so you can find the best deal on a place with, say, a gym or great views.
如果你真的只想住酒店，省钱妙招也不少。有两个新网站可以帮你监测你已预订的房间是否已降价：TripRebel仅仅返还差价，而TripBAM会在同一家酒店或附近的酒店降价时提醒你，并帮你重新预订。TheSuitest使用酒店特征和配套设施来评估客房价格是否合算，所以，特别挑剔的旅行者不仅可以订到满足条件（比如配备了健身房或者窗外风景最美）的房间，而且价格也极有优势。
And finally, a compromise of sorts: the growing Britain-based Camp in My Garden (campinmygarden.com), on which users can offer their backyards to potential campers. It’s dirt cheap, and tents are, after all, completely private.
最后这个选项可谓博采众长：蒸蒸日上的英国网站“我家花园可露营”(campinmygarden.com)帮助用户把自家的庭院信息展示给潜在的野营客户。价格便宜到爆，而且，帐篷毕竟是完全私密的。
Connecting the Stops
航班转乘
On a flight from New York to São Paulo last year, I sat next to a young guy headed to Buenos Aires quite indirectly. He had long layovers in São Paulo and Montevideo, lengthening a 10-hour trip to more than 24 hours. But to him it was a no-brainer — he’d save a few hundred bucks.
去年，在我从纽约飞往巴西圣保罗的航班上，邻座少年的旅行目的地是阿根廷首都布宜诺斯艾利斯，行程却相当曲折。由于要转乘其他航班，他得在圣保罗和蒙得维的亚（Montevideo，乌拉圭首都）长久地逗留，本来只有十小时的旅程拉长到了24小时以上。但对他来说，做出这个决定却不假思索，因为可以省下好几百美元。
If that sounds familiar, you probably already know how to list flights by price and set filters to allow multiple layovers on sites like Kayak and Bing Travel. And here’s another tip for flights in Europe: The WhichAirline app and site (whichairline.com) can help you find inconvenient but very cheap connections that other engines don’t. For example, it found me a $119 flight from Paris to Budapest on the budget carrier Ryanair, with a layover of about five hours in Milan each way. (The cheapest option on the usually dependable Vayama.com was $280.)
如果听着耳熟，或许你已经知道用Kayak和必应旅游搜索时，怎样按票价高低显示航班，怎样设置过滤器允许多次转乘。下面这个小贴示适合欧洲的航班：手机应用WhichAirline及其网站whichairline.com能帮你查到虽然不甚方便但却非常便宜的航线。别的搜索引擎做不到哦。比如，它为我找到了从巴黎飞往布达佩斯的瑞安航空公司(Ryanair)的某条廉价航线，虽然来回都要在米兰中途停留五小时左右，但机票钱却只需要119美元。（而在大家普遍信任的Vayama.com网站，最便宜的航线都要280美元。）
If you’re anti-layover, consider making your dates more flexible. It’s far easier than it used to be. About a year ago, Google introduced Flight Explorer (google.com/flights/explore), which displays a bar graph for the best prices to a specific destination over any specified time range. Even better, be flexible about your destination: Pick a region (“Western Europe”) and it will show you those same bar graphs for multiple destinations, starting with the cheapest options. You can also set the maximum length of the trip.
如果你讨厌转乘，那就考虑一下较为灵活的日期安排。现在比过去要简单多了。大概一年前，谷歌引入了航班浏览器(google.com/flights/explore)，可用柱状图显示任意特定时段内到达特定目的地的最佳价格。弹性目的地效果更好：设定目的地为一片区域（比如“西欧”），就会为你显示该区域内多个目的地的柱状图，价格从低到高。你还可以设定旅程最高公里数。
Miles Mania
积分狂人
There are two kinds of fliers: miles obsessives who pay more upfront for airlines in a specific alliance and shuffle miles-accruing credit cards to reap free flights at the end; and others who can’t be bothered, who just look to save on each individual flight, car rental and hotel, regardless of the brand.
飞机上有两种乘客：一种愿意为某一特定航空公司提前多付费用，积攒信用卡点数，希望最终赢取免费航班；另一种人从不为此烦恼，他们在每次单独的飞行、汽车租赁和酒店住宿中都想省钱，至于品牌倒是无所谓。
Being a miles maniac requires a steep learning curve in a world that seems to be both endlessly complicated and constantly shifting. Navigating this world requires a lot of help, and many turn to smart sites like ThePointsGuy.com. Two new ones are also worth a look: Altimetr.com debuted in June, and though it often takes a higher-end approach, evaluating business class service and private jets, it includes plenty of articles for the rest of us, like comparisons of frequent-flier programs and a useful intro to the whole points game.
这个世界貌似永远复杂，却又时刻在改变。想成为飞机上的积分狂人，学习曲线相当陡峭，初学时很是不易。航行于世间你需要许多帮助，不少人求助于ThePointsGuy.com等聪明网站。有两个新网站也值得一看。一个是去年6月份面世的Altimetr.com网站。尽管它总在关注高端、评估商务舱服务和私人飞机，但也有许多文章是面向我们这种积分狂人的，比如常顾客流程对比。网站上对整个积分游戏规则的介绍也很有用。
If it’s all about frugality for you, try RichmondSavers.com, courtesy of a husband and wife team of C.P.A.s in Virginia, which focuses more closely on how to save big. Their step-by-step guide to a free family trip to Disney World is a good test of whether miles mania is right for you.
如果对你来说节俭是头等大事，不妨试试RichmondSavers.com，这是美国弗吉尼亚州一对夫妻开设的网站，两人都是注册会计师。这个网站格外关注怎样省大钱。他们的“手把手教程”教你全家免费游览迪斯尼乐园，同时也是个绝佳的测试，检验你是否适合当个积分狂人。
The Grid: On or Off?
社交网络：打开还是关上？
I post to Twitter and Instagram wherever I go, but not without feeling conflicted: It’s fun, but it’s also part of my job. I’m not sure I would do it if I were traveling for pure pleasure.
无论我走到哪里，都会发推特或Instagram，却不会感到矛盾：固然有趣，但也不过是为了工作。如果旅行只为消遣，我恐怕不会坚持更新。
But for fans of social media — and other sorts of data usage — it’s undeniably getting cheaper to stay connected. Last year, T-Mobile became the first major carrier to include international data in its regular domestic plans; customers can now check their email in Mongolia or post to Facebook from Frankfurt with no additional charge. (There is one catch: the free data comes with a promise of only 2G coverage, though you can pay for 3G and 4G, as with other carriers.) And there’s no reason anymore to pay for international text messages; that’s what What’s App and its ever-growing list of competitors are for. (Of course, you can also use local or international SIM cards.) 
但是对于社交媒体以及各种数据应用的发烧友，无可否认，保持网络连接的成本越来越低了。去年，T-Mobile公司开通国际数据漫游业务，在全球各大手机运营商中这是第一个。现在，T-Mobile用户无需多交费，就能在蒙古国查收邮件，在法兰克福更新Facebook。（前提是，免费数据只适用于2G覆盖区。但只要付费便可享受3G或4G数据漫游，与其他运营商的用户一样。）不必再为发送国际短信花钱了，WhatsApp和它日渐增多的竞争对手们就是干这个的。（当然，本地或国际SIM卡都行。）
Those who do pay for data now can use it to save money more easily than before. Last year saw Google’s Field Trip (fieldtripper.com) make the jump from Android to iPhone. The app alerts you when you are near attractions, restaurants, sales and the like, using information from an ever-growing list of sources. It’s customizable, and I’ve been teaching mine to stick to the cheap stuff. Now, among other things, it alerts me when I’m near a restaurant reviewed by master hole-in-the-wall-finder Robert Sietsema forEater.com.
有些人确实愿意付费购买数据，而现在，借助手机应用为自己省钱越发容易了。去年，谷歌野外旅行(fieldtripper.com)实现了安卓到iPhone的跨越。这个应用能在你接近旅游景点、餐馆、商店等目标的时候发出提醒，信息内容也越发丰富。它是可以定制的，我已经教会自己的手机只关注那些物美价廉的好东西。而今，当苍蝇小馆猎手、美食评论家Robert Sietsema在Eater.com点评过的餐馆在附近出现时，手机就会提醒我注意。
Of course, those who prefer to stay out of touch and find things the old-fashioned way don’t require any fancy technology tips to help them save. In 2014, as in 1914, they’ll get their budget travel advice from handy analog devices called human beings.
当然，有些人更乐意躲开社交网络，无视一切奇技淫巧，只用古典的方式浪迹山水。2014年，旅途中如果需要省钱，他们会像在1914年那样，求助一种随处可见的模拟设备——“路人”。