The fall 2014 women’s couture shows, which began Sunday, wrapped up yesterday in Paris. From the fashion to the haute joaillerie to the off-the-runway star sightings, these were some of the season’s most memorable moments.
2014年秋季巴黎高级定制女装周周日开幕，昨天闭幕（7月9日——译注）。下面是这一季最难忘的时刻——从时装到高级珠宝到秀台下的明星。
Trending: baby bumps
潮流：孕妇装
The slew of pregnant runway fixtures — among them Elizabeth von Guttman, Anya Ziourova and Nasiba Adilova — was hard to ignore at show after show. And then when Karl Lagerfeld closed the Chanel presentation with the pregnant model Ashleigh Good at his side, the fashion set began to wonder if the big-belly thing was poised to take shape as a new look.
在一场场时装秀之后，你很难无视一连串怀孕的秀场常客，其中包括伊丽莎白·冯·古特曼(Elizabeth von Guttman)、安雅·左拉维娃(Anya Ziourova)和娜西巴·阿迪拉娃(Nasiba Adilova)。卡尔·拉格菲尔德(Karl Lagerfeld)在香奈儿(Chanel)发布会结束时和怀孕的模特阿什莉·古德(Ashleigh Good)一起上台，时装界开始猜想孕妇装是不是即将成为一种新造型。
A hip ‘hood to hang out in
放松消遣的酒吧
Paris’s bustling 11th Arrondissement, an up-and-coming area referred to simply as Oberkampf (for the main rue that runs through it), is full of cozy bars and crazy nightlife. Grabbing a drink at an unassuming little wine bar there called La Buvette felt like relaxing in someone’s home, and served as a nice antidote to all the excess (bright lights, elaborate presentations, decadent meals) the short week had to offer.
巴黎繁忙的第11区日见重要，它被简称为奥贝康夫区（得名于它的主要街道）。这个区域充满了舒适的酒吧和疯狂的夜生活。在这里的一个名叫La Buvette的朴素的小红酒吧里喝上一杯，感觉像在家中一样放松，可以化解这短暂一周里的所有过分（明亮的灯光，精致的发布会，堕落的大餐）。
Seeing red
到处都是红色
The strong hue ruled the runway this season. It was part of a black-white-and-red palette at Armani Privé, where it seemed to steal the show, and was the color of one of Valentino’s sexiest, most romantic numbers. And then it was the only color employed by the designers Viktor Horsting and Rolf Snoeren, whose red carpet looks were made entirely of … red carpet. Atelier Swarovski even created a custom red velvet flocked bracelet to complement its collection.
这种强烈的色彩主导着这一季的秀台。它是阿玛尼高级定制(Armani Privé)的黑白红色调的一部分，不过它似乎抢走了整个时装秀的风头。它是华伦天奴(Valentino)最性感、最浪漫的其中一个造型的色彩。它是设计师组合维克托·霍斯汀(Viktor Horsting)和罗尔夫·斯诺伦(Rolf Snoeren)唯一选用的颜色，他们的红毯像是完全用……红毯做成的，施华洛世奇公司(Atelier Swarovski)为了配合他们的这个系列，甚至设计了一款特制的植入红色天鹅绒的手镯。
Matchy-matchy
完美搭配
At Chanel, messenger bags and cross-body purses matched dresses and coats exactly. Karl proves that when it comes to couture, you can’t have too much of a good thing.
在香奈儿的秀台上，邮差包和斜挎包与连衣裙和外套搭配得天衣无缝。卡尔表明，在高级定制方面，好东西是多多益善。
That guy
那个人
From the Gianvito Rossi and MyTheresa dinner at the Italian embassy on Monday night to the front rows of Armani Privé and Chanel on Tuesday, the man of the couture hour was none other than the Oscar-winner Jared Leto. The women’s Chanel pants he wore to Karl’s show may have made more headlines than the actor’s presence alone.
周一晚上，出现在意大利大使馆的詹维托·罗西(Gianvito Rossi)和MyTheresa晚宴上；周二，坐在阿玛尼高级定制时装秀和香奈儿时装秀的前排——高级定制季的大红人不是别人，正是奥斯卡得主杰瑞德·莱托(Jared Leto)。他去参加卡尔的时装秀时穿着香奈儿的女装裤，这也许比这位演员到场本身更会成为新闻报道的标题。
From bridal couture to everyday couture
从新娘高级定制到日常高级定制
Delphine Manivet has been crafting bespoke wedding dresses for France’s high society for a decade. Her designs now include everyday couture, which she presented this week on her first runway, much to the delight of those in attendance.
德尔菲娜·玛尼维(Delphine Manivet)为法国上流社会定制结婚礼服已有十年。她的设计现在包括日常高级定制服装，本周她在自己的第一场时装秀上展示了这些服装，让到场的人甚是喜爱。
Artistic endeavors
艺术设计
Classic artists continue to inspire modern fashion designers. Roger Vivier’s creative director Bruno Frisoni presented a specialty collection inspired by Matisse’s decoupages, while the jeweler Wilfredo Rosado introduced designs informed by Cy Twombly.
经典艺术家们继续给现代时装设计师们带来灵感。罗杰·维维亚(Roger Vivier)的创意总监布鲁诺·弗里索尼(Bruno Frisoni)展示了一个以马蒂斯(Matisse)的剪贴画为灵感的特别系列。珠宝商维尔弗雷多·罗萨多(Wilfredo Rosado)推出了受赛·托姆布雷(Cy Twombly)启发设计的系列。
Opal appeal
猫眼石的魅力
Opals had a big moment this season, popping up in the jewelry collections of Chaumet, Louis Vuitton, Boucheron, Van Cleef & Arpels and Cartier. The stone once believed to deliver bad luck is now a sign of exquisite taste.
这一季猫眼石大放光彩，出现在尚美(Chaumet)、LV(Louis Vuitton)、宝诗龙(Boucheron)、梵克雅宝(Van Cleef & Arpels)和卡地亚(Cartier)的珠宝系列中。这种曾经被认为会带来厄运的宝石如今是优雅品味的象征。
Haute makeup
高级妆容
For Raf Simons’s Christian Dior collection, the makeup artist Peter Philips created a neutral yet ethereal look that reinforced a bold eyebrow’s place on the runway and introduced the striking appeal of silver liner along the top lid. (The brand will release its new “silver eyes” eyeliner in November.)
美妆大师彼得·菲利普斯(Peter Philips)为拉夫·西蒙斯(Raf Simons)的迪奥(Christian Dior)系列设计了一个中性而优雅的妆容，强化了浓密的眉毛在秀台上的地位，在上眼睑上画上了醒目、诱人的银色眼线（该品牌将于11月发布新款银色眼线笔）。
A buzzy exhibition
一场有趣的展览
Some of the fashion flock has plans to stay in town over the weekend, and many will reconvene at the Palais Galliera fashion museum when it reopens on Saturday with a new exhibition: “The 50s: Fashion in France, 1947-1957.”
一些时尚人士计划在巴黎度过这个周末，很多人将在宫殿画廊(Palais Galliera)时装博物馆重聚。该博物馆周六将以一场新展览重新开放：“五十年代：法国时装，1947-1957”(The 50s: Fashion in France, 1947-1957)。