The next 12 months may not prove as rich for initial public offerings as the last year. But to Wall Street bankers, 2014 still promises an abundance of opportunity.
对于首次公开募股（以下简称IPO）来说，接下来的一年可能不如去年有利。但对于华尔街的银行业人士来说，2014年依然是充满机会的一年。
And that could include what may be one of the biggest market debuts in years: that of Alibaba, the Chinese Internet behemoth.
接下来的一年有可能包括中国网络巨头阿里巴巴的首次公开募股，这也许可算是多年来最重要的IPO。 
Even as global merger activity turned in another lackluster performance, the business of taking companies public soared. The amount raised by I.P.O.’s in the United States last year jumped 40 percent over 2012, to $59.3 billion, according to data from Thomson Reuters.
即便全球并购活动进入了另一个平淡期，公司上市业务却异常兴旺。根据汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)的数据，美国去年的IPO筹到了593亿美元（约合3588亿元人民币），比2012年增加了40%。
Overall activity in equity capital markets banking totaled nearly $797 billion for the year, up 27 percent and one of the best years in recent memory. Fees for bankers in the field rose 34 percent from the previous year, to $17.9 billion, in what Thomson Reuters described as the highest level in three years.
过去一年，股权资本市场银行业务的总交易额接近7970亿美元，涨幅为27%，达到了近年来的最高水平。该领域银行业人士所得费用比去年上涨了34%，达到179亿美元，汤森路透称这是三年来的最高水平。
The FTSE Renaissance Global I.P.O. Index, which tracks the returns of newly public shares, returned 31.7 percent last year through Dec. 17, outstripping the MSCI All Country World Index’s 15.4 percent.
截至去年12月17日，追踪新上市股票收益的富时复兴全球IPO指数(FTSE Renaissance Global I.P.O. Index)上扬了31.7%，超过了摩根士丹利资本国际全球指数(MSCI All Country World Index)的15.4%增幅。
Advisers are quick to caution that such a run — one with a number of big stock market debuts, like those of Hilton Worldwide, the animal health company Zoetis and, of course, Twitter — will be hard to duplicate. But as long as the economy holds up, so will the stock markets, prompting private companies to look to share sales to raise money.
顾问们立即提出警告，这样的业绩——其中包括很多重要的上市活动，比如希尔顿全球酒店集团(Hilton Worldwide)、动物保健公司硕腾(Zoetis)，以及Twitter的首次公开募股——很难复制。但只要经济保持良好态势，股市也会有良好的表现，由此推动非上市公司依靠股票销售筹集资金。
“I would be surprised if the overall market is up 25 percent or more next year, but I’m optimistic and think it’s still trending upward,” John S. Daly, the head of Americas equity capital markets at Goldman Sachs, said.
高盛(Goldman Sachs)美国股权资本市场部负责人约翰·S·戴利(John S. Daly)说，“如果明年总体市场增幅达到了25%或更多，我会感到非常惊讶，但我很乐观，并且认为股市处于上升趋势。”
Behind the I.P.O. boom are the usual factors, bankers say. Encouraging economic conditions drove impressive stock market growth, particularly in the United States. (Last year was the first time since 2004 that the highest share of I.P.O. proceeds were raised in North America, at 34 percent.)
银行业人士表示，推动IPO热潮的是一些常见因素。令人鼓舞的经济状况促使股市大幅增长，特别是美国股市。（去年，IPO筹资的最大份额自2004年以来首次出现在了北美市场，所占比例高达34%。）
Investors proved especially eager to buy into new stocks: The flow of money into stock mutual funds outpaced money going into bond funds this year, providing a big source of capital waiting to be spent on new offerings.
事实证明，投资者特别渴望购入新股票：今年，股票共同基金的资金流量超过了购买债券基金的资金，为认购新股提供了巨大的资金来源。
“What switched this year is that the economy is improving and that there’s a lot less risk of a big downward shock,” Cully Davis, a managing director of equity capital markets at Credit Suisse, said. “Investors’ risk tolerance changed.”
“改变今年态势的原因是经济状况不断改善，股市出现大幅下滑的风险减小了许多，”瑞信(Credit Suisse)股权资本市场部总经理库里·戴维斯(Cully Davis)表示。“投资者的风险承受能力也有变化。”
At the same time, Mr. Daly said, investors have been disciplined about what they have been willing to pay for I.P.O.’s.
与此同时，戴利表示，投资者在出资购买新股时都很有节制。
The presence of ready buyers has prompted a spate of entities, including corporations looking to spin off divisions and private start-ups looking to seize on years of work and rising hype. Bankers say that the backlog of I.P.O.’s is strong, if not nearly bursting.
积极买主的存在推动了一大批实体的发展，包括尝试进行分拆的公司，以及那些希望利用多年工作业绩和上升人气筹资的非上市初创公司。银行业人士表示，排队等待IPO的公司即便不是接近爆棚，也得说是数目众多。
The boom has been fairly evenly spread, though financial and consumer companies were the majority, according to Renaissance Capital. Even sectors that had fallen out of favor, like biotechnology companies, look poised to recover.
根据复兴资本(Renaissance Capital)的说法，IPO热潮在各个领域分布得相当均匀，尽管占多数的还是金融及消费品公司。看样子，连生物技术等冷门领域的公司都已蓄势待发，准备再次崛起。
For many investors, the most attractive type of investment remains companies that are poised for double-digit revenue growth. A new crop of technology start-ups that many analysts and bankers predict may go public in 2014 fits neatly into that mold, even if none will equal Facebook’s $16 billion offering or draw as much attention as Twitter’s.
对许多投资者而言，最具吸引力的投资对象依然是那些有望获得两位数收益增长的公司。据许多分析师和银行业人士预测会在2014年上市的新一批科技创业公司清一色都是这种类型，哪怕这些公司没有一家能和Facebook一样筹得160亿美元的融资，或者吸引到和Twitter上市时一样多的关注。
Among them are Dropbox and Box, two of the big online storage companies, and the Lending Club, the biggest player in the peer-to-peer lending industry.
这其中包括Dropbox公司和Box公司，以及借贷俱乐部(Lending Club)，前两家都是大型网络存储企业，后者则是个人对个人借贷行业规模最大的参与者。
But the most highly anticipated offering is that of Alibaba, whose vast e-commerce operations make the company a Chinese amalgam of Amazon, eBay and a host of others. The Internet giant has not picked bankers for its forthcoming offering, according to people briefed on the matter, but that has not stopped an army of senior-level deal makers from making regular trips to Hong Kong to pay their respects to the company’s founder, Jack Ma, and its executive vice chairman, Joseph Tsai.
不过，最让人期待的IPO公司当属阿里巴巴，其庞大的电子商务业务让该公司成为了中国式的混合巨头，将亚马逊(Amazon)、eBay和其他多个公司的经营模式融为一体。据了解内情的人士透露，这家网络巨头还没有为即将到来的募股选择代理银行，不过，这也没能阻止高级别的交易撮合队伍定期前往香港，向该公司创始人马云和集团董事局副主席蔡崇信致意。
Fevered speculation about Alibaba’s potential market value has only increased, with bankers and analysts now guessing that the company could fetch a valuation of more than $150 billion.
对阿里巴巴潜在市值的热切猜测有增无减，据银行业人士和分析师目前的估计，该公司的估值有望超过1500亿美元。
Other companies expected to go public are not considered high-growth stories, but nevertheless have strong financial performance that could draw investors all the same. Ally Financial, the lender that once was General Motors’ financing arm, is among those weighing a potential I.P.O. to help repay its government bailout, according to people briefed on the matter. And General Electric plans to spin off its huge consumer finance arm.
其他一些可能上市的公司虽然没被视为高增长企业，但却同样拥有吸引投资者的强劲财务表现。据了解内情的人士透露，曾经的通用汽车(General Motors) 贷款部门、如今的借贷企业Ally Financial也在考虑通过IPO来帮助公司偿还政府救援资金。此外，通用电气(General Electric)也计划剥离旗下庞大的消费金融部门。
Private equity firms have also been eager to seize on the roaring markets to sell their investments. Last year, the Blackstone Group took a number of its portfolio companies public, including Hilton and SeaWorld.
私募股权公司也一直急于抓住越来越火的市场，销售自己的投资产品。去年，黑石集团(Blackstone Group)推动其投资组合当中的一些公司公开上市，其中包括希尔顿酒店国际集团(Hilton)与海洋世界公园和娱乐公司(SeaWorld)。
Such firms often do not sell any shares in the I.P.O.; Blackstone sold none of its shares in Hilton when the company went public last month. According to Philip Drury, a co-head of equity capital markets for the Americas at Citigroup, leveraged buyout shops have multiyear plans to sell off their holdings. Though investors had worried in the past that the firms would dump their investments, the firms now hold on to big stakes in their companies in hopes that the stocks will continue to rise.
进行IPO的适合，这一类公司往往不会销售任何股份；希尔顿国际酒店集团上月上市时，黑石并未卖出它在希尔顿持有的任何股份。据花旗银行(Citigroup)美洲股票资本市场共同负责人菲利普·德鲁里(Philip Drury)透露，杠杆收购商都有逐年变现股份的计划。在过去，投资者曾担忧这些公司倾销他们的投资产品，不过如今，这些公司却牢牢攥紧他们在各公司的巨额股份，期望股价持续攀升。
Even as the enthusiasm for 2014 remains strong, advisers warn that any number of unexpected developments — a new war, uncertainty over a government debt impasse, an unforeseen market stumble — could damp the prospects for a prolonged renaissance in stock offerings.
虽然投资者对2014年依然热情高涨，顾问们仍然告诫称，任何意料之外的情况——一场新的战争、围绕政府债务僵局的未卜局面、一次未曾预见的市场动荡——都有可能使IPO持续复兴的前景变得黯淡。
“I think we’ve all understood that I.P.O. market windows open and close pretty quickly,” Mr. Drury said. “History has taught us to be somewhat cautious.”
“我想我们都明白，IPO市场之窗的开合非常迅速，”德鲁里说，“历史教育我们，要保留几分谨慎。”