China already spends more on its military than any country in the world except the United States. Now, as defense budgets at the Pentagon and in many NATO countries shrink, China’s People’s Liberation Army is gearing up for a surge in new funding, according to a new report.
中国的军费支出在全世界仅次于美国。一份最新报告显示，如今，在五角大楼以及许多北约(NATO)国家防务预算遭到削减的同时，中国人民解放军则准备获得更多资金。
China will spend $148 billion on its military this year, up from $139.2 billion in 2013, according to IHS Jane’s, a defense industry consulting and analysis company. The United States spends far more – a forecast $574.9 billion this year – but that is down from $664.3 billion in 2012 after budget cuts slashed spending. By next year China will spend more on defense than Britain, Germany and France combined, according to IHS. By 2024, it will spend more than all of Western Europe, it estimates.
根据防务咨询和分析公司简氏信息集团(IHS Jane's)数据，中国今年的军事开支将为1480亿美元（约合人民币8975亿元），高于2013年的1392亿美元。美国的开支要高得多——预计今年为5749亿美元——但在一系列预算削减导致军费开支大幅降低之后，这个数字已经低于2012年的6643亿美元。简氏信息集团称，明年，中国的军费开支将高于英国、德国和法国军费开支的总和。该机构还估计，到2024年，中国在国防上的花费将超过全部西欧国家的总和。
The surge in weapons spending by Beijing – military outlays this year are set to be a third higher than in 2009 – has come in tandem with an escalation in tensions with its neighbors over longstanding territorial disputes. Vietnam and the Philippines have overlapping claims with China to islands and shoals in the South China Sea. Japan and China have been at loggerheads over uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.
中国今年的军费将比2009年高出三分之一，而伴随着军费支出上涨的则是，中国与一些邻国长期领土争议引发的紧张关系已经升级。越南和菲律宾都与中国存在主权之争，同时宣称对南海的岛屿和暗礁拥有主权。日本则和中国在东海一系列无人居住岛屿的主权归属问题上一直存在争议。
The extra spending has bought some flashy hardware. In 2012 China commissioned its first aircraft carrier – the Liaoning – built from the hull of an uncompleted ship ordered by the Soviet navy in the 1980s. In 2011 a Chinese-made aircraft with stealth radar-evading capabilities flew on a test flight as Robert M. Gates, then the United States defense secretary, was in Beijing on an official visit.
高额的支出带来了一些炫目的装备。2012年，中国第一艘航母“辽宁号”投入使用。这艘航母是用上世纪80年代前苏联海军订购的一艘未完成的舰艇的船体打造的。2011年，时任美国国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)在北京正式访问期间，中国试飞了一架自行研制的拥有雷达规避能力的隐形战机。
Chinese pilots are using the Liaoning – its overhaul easy to monitor over the years from the fire escape at an Ikea furniture store in the northeastern Chinese port of Dalian – as a training platform to learn aircraft carrier operations. The United States Navy, which has had aircraft carriers in its fleet since before World War II, currently has 10 active nuclear-powered carriers, all larger than the Liaoning.
“辽宁号”正在整体检修，从中国东北地区港口城市大连的一个宜家家具店的防火逃生梯上可以很容易看到它。中国的飞行员把“辽宁号”当做了一个学习航母操作的培训平台。而美国海军在二战前就已经拥有航母，目前拥有10艘活跃的核动力航母，每艘都比“辽宁号”更为庞大。
China is set to release its military spending for 2013 and its forecast for this year at the annual session of the National People’s Congress next month in Beijing. The IHS figures may differ from official figures because they take into account items including research and development spending and pension costs that may not be reflected in China’s own estimates.
下个月在北京举行的全国人大会议上，中国将公布2013年的军费支出，以及对今年的预测。简氏信息提供的数字可能与官方数字存在差别，因为它还包括研发支出以及养老金花费等项目，这些项目可能不会出现在中国自己的统计数据中。