Auto China 2014 officially opened to the public on Monday at the China International Exhibition Center, Beijing’s convention center, with a glittering, seemingly endless array of new transportation offerings that underscored the growing importance of the Chinese market in the automotive industry.
2014北京国际汽车展览会周一正式向公众开放。车展在北京的中国国际展览中心举行，汇聚了各种闪亮的新款交通工具，看似无穷无尽，这突显了中国市场在汽车业里日益显著的重要地位。
Volkswagen, for example, chose the show in China over the New York International Auto Show, which is happening concurrently, as the more important site to unveil three important new models: a refreshed Touareg sport utility; the hottest Golf hatchback ever, the 395-horsepower R 400; and a sleek New Midsize Coupe concept.
比方说，大众(Volkswagen)没有选择同期举办的纽约国际车展(New York International Auto Show)，而是将中国的车展视为更关键的场合来让三款重要的新车型亮相：新版的途锐SUV；史上最酷的高尔夫掀背车，395马力的R400；以及美观的新中级轿跑概念车。
Although the models that VW showed in Beijing were adjusted to suit Chinese tastes, each will also be offered in other markets worldwide, with minor changes made for each target demographic, the company announced.
尽管大众在北京展出的车型根据中国人的口味进行了调整，但公司宣布，在针对特定受众群做出微调之后，其中的每款车都将出现在全球其他市场上。
“The Golf R 400 that was shown in Beijing, that’s a good example of a global car for VW,” Scott Vazin, a VW spokesman, said in an interview. “The basic platform is on our MQB tool kit, which makes it highly flexible and adaptable to any market in which we sell. We just need to adjust things to make it viable for other markets.”
“在北京展出的高尔夫R400，很好地代表了大众的全球车型，”公司发言人斯科特·沃齐(Scott Vazin)接受采访称。“基本平台采用的是大众MQB平台，因此高度灵活，可以很好地适应任何一个销售市场。我们只需做出一些调整，就能让它符合其他市场的要求。”
The importance of the China market to Volkswagen is critical, Carsten Krebs, a company spokesman, said in an email.
大众的另一名发言人卡斯滕·克雷布斯(Carsten Krebs)则在电子邮件中表示，对大众而言，中国市场至关重要。
“This will give you a flavor how important this market is for us,” he said. “We delivered 3.26 million cars in China; 9.73 units globally. China represents roughly 30 percent of VW’s overall volume on a global basis.”
“下面这些数字将让你一窥这一市场对我们的重要性，”他写道。“我们去年在中国交付了326万辆车；全球为973万辆。中国代表了大众全球总销量的30%左右。”
Starting years ago, high-volume automakers like Volkswagen, Ford and General Motors established solid footholds in the Chinese market. This has proved a wise move, as China has rapidly transitioned from a nation of bicyclists to what has become the world’s largest automotive market. Other automakers, like the ones from Japan, seemed to have gotten off to somewhat belated and more uncertain starts, and, as evidenced at this year’s Beijing show, they are still playing catch-up.
多年前，大众、福特(Ford)和通用汽车(General Motors)等大型汽车生产商就开始在中国打下了坚实的基础。事实证明，此举颇为明智，中国已从自行车之国迅速转型为世界最大的汽车市场。其他的生产商，比如日本厂商，似乎起步较慢，也表现得不那么稳定。在今年的北京车展上，颇为明显的是，这些厂商仍然处于追赶阶段。
Honda, Nissan, Infiniti, Toyota and Lexus each introduced polarizing new models and concepts in Beijing that all appeared to be searching for an elusive lost chord to resonate with Chinese buyers. Honda showed the Concept B hybrid and the Spirior sedan concept — two models with protruding noses — that failed to wow. Likewise, Lexus showed its scissor-nosed NX crossover, a production-ready model that bears a strong resemblance to the concept that was widely panned at its debut at the Frankfurt Motor Show last year. Nissan’s Lannia sedan concept also seemed to be something of a miss.
本田(Honda)、日产(Nissan)、英菲尼迪(Infiniti)、丰田(Toyota)和雷克萨斯(Lexus)均在北京车展上推出了极为不同的新车型和概念车。这些车似乎都在寻找那把踪迹难寻的密匙，以期打开中国买家的心门。本田展出了Concept B混合动力概念车和思铂睿概念轿车，这两款带有突出车头的车型均反响平淡。同样地，雷克萨斯推出了NX跨界车，车头看似剪刀。这款车已可投入量产，非常类似于去年在法兰克福车展(Frankfurt Motor Show)上首次亮相的一款概念车，不过那款车遭遇了广泛批评。日产的Lannia概念轿车似乎也不太成功。
But even those lackluster efforts received warmer welcomes than those of homegrown Chinese models, from brands like Dongfeng, Chery, Changan, Haval, Zoyte and others. Chinese buyers, judging by sales results, seem to prefer foreign cars. A rare hit among the misses could be Geely’s Cross PHEV concept, a clean design with an environmentally friendly powertrain. This is not a complete surprise; the Cross HPEV was designed by Peter Horbury, the well-regarded stylist from Volvo.
不过，就连这些表现一般的车型也比中国本土的车型更受欢迎，比如东风、奇瑞、长安、哈弗和众泰等品牌推出的产品。从销售数据来看，中国买家似乎更青睐外国品牌的汽车。一众乏善可陈的车型中，有一款或许会成为少有的例外：设计利落、配有环保动力系统的吉利帝豪Cross PHEV概念车。这并不完全出乎人预料，因为Cross PHEV的设计师是颇受尊崇的彼得·霍伯里(Peter Horbury)，来自沃尔沃(Volvo)的大师。