War, famine, pestilence and death — the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse — have been well represented in years ending in “4,” but probably not disproportionately so. A look at memorable moments in the last seven of these just might lead to optimism for the one that’s upon us. Or not.
在以4结尾的年份中，战争、饥荒、瘟疫和死亡——《启示录》中的四骑士——没少发生，但也并非特别频繁。回顾之前的七个以4结尾的年份，也许能让你对接下来的2014年乐观起来。或恰恰相反。
1944 Those of us who don’t remember this year are lucky; a soldier cited in Rick Atkinson’s brilliantly horrifying saga of the last two years of the war in Europe, “The Guns at Last Light,” quotes King Lear: “The worst is not, So long as we can say, ‘This is the worst.’ ” The end of the war was in sight; getting there was the trick, and millions were killed in the interval. Things have not been this bad since.
1944年 我们这些对这一年没有记忆的人是幸运的；在里克·阿特金森(Rick Atkinson)关于欧洲战争最后两年的精彩而恐怖的大作《最后的枪声》(The Guns at Last Light)中，一个士兵引用了《李尔王》中的名句：“只要我们还能说，‘这是最糟糕的’，最糟糕的就还没有到来。”战争的终点就在眼前；棘手的是如何抵达这个终点，在这个过程中，数百万人失去了生命。此后再也没出现如此糟糕的状况。
1954 If there was a golden era of United States foreign policy, it ended here, as Eisenhower warned against involvement in Vietnam while espousing the domino theory. Good: Joe McCarthy’s power began to ebb. Not good: The words “under God” were added to the Pledge of Allegiance.
1954年 如果说美国的外交政策有一个黄金时期，那这个黄金时期就结束于1954年，就是艾森豪威尔(Eisenhower)一边警告不要卷进越南战争，一边又支持多米诺理论的时候。好的一面：乔·麦卡锡(Joe McCarthy)的势力开始衰落。不好的一面：《效忠宣誓》中加入了“上帝之下”这几个字。
1964 The last year of the baby boom was mind-blowing. In the 28 months beginning that January, Bob Dylan made five of the best albums of the era — and there were the Beatles.
1964年 婴儿潮的最后一年令人振奋。在从1964年1月开始的28个月里，鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)制作了五张那个时代最优秀的专辑——另外还有披头士(Beatles)。
Nelson Mandela was sentenced to life in prison, and Lyndon Johnson single-handedly sent everyone into a tizzy by signing the Civil Rights Act, sending more “advisers” to Vietnam, talking about bombing North Vietnam and proposing the Great Society. Huh? The first anti-Vietnam War demonstrations and draft-card burnings took place. Pot smoking officially began. (Not really, but sorta.)
纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)被判终身监禁，林登·约翰逊(Lyndon Johnson)签署了《民权法案》(Civil Rights Act)让所有人陷入恐慌，把更多的“顾问”送到越南，讨论轰炸北越，提出“伟大社会”的设想。咦？发生了第一批反越战示威和兵役应征卡焚烧事件。正式开始抽大麻。（不算正式，某种程度上吧。）
The civil-rights workers Schwerner, Goodman and Chaney were found dead; just writing that gives me chills.
民权活动人士施沃纳(Schwerner)、古德曼(Goodman)和钱尼(Chaney)被杀害；单是写下这行字已经让我不寒而栗。
1974 The mid-70s were glum. We can gloat about Nixon’s resignation, though don’t forget he founded the Environmental Protection Agency. Gerald Ford gave his predecessor a better deal than he gave draft evaders. He also determined that we needed to Whip Inflation Now, as oil passed $10 a barrel. Everyone made jokes about him, with reason.
1974年 70年代中期是忧郁的。我们可以对尼克松辞职幸灾乐祸，不过不要忘了是他创办了国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)。杰拉尔德·福特(Gerald Ford)对他的前任比对逃避服兵役者更宽容。他还认为，随着石油价格超过了每桶10美元，我们需要立即遏制通胀。人人都在笑话他，这是有原因的。
Patty Hearst was kidnapped. Ted Bundy disappeared many people. Augusto Pinochet declared himself “supreme chief” of Chile and disappeared many more.
帕蒂·赫斯特(Patty Hearst)被绑架。泰德·邦迪(Ted Bundy)让很多人消失。奥古斯托·皮诺切特(Augusto Pinochet)称自己是智利的“最高首长”，他弄没的人比邦迪多得多。
The high point may have been the Ramones’ debut at CBGB. 
这一年的亮点可能是雷蒙斯合唱团(Ramones)在CBGB的首次亮相。
1984 Big Brother was not (yet) our biggest problem, but this was not a good year. President Reagan, presumably not yet stricken by Alzheimer’s, remarked over an open mike that the bombing of Russia would begin “in five minutes.” Geraldine Ferraro became a vice-presidential candidate, and lost. Margaret Thatcher went to war with miners, and won. Indira Gandhi was assassinated and a Union Carbide leak in Bhopal killed untold thousands.
1984年 老大哥（还）不是我们最大的问题，但这也不是一个好年景。应该还没患上阿尔兹海默症的里根总统对着一个开着的话筒说，“五分钟后”轰炸俄罗斯。杰罗丁·费拉罗(Geraldine Ferraro)成为副总统候选人，输了。玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)和矿工作战，赢了。英迪拉·甘地(Indira Gandhi)遇刺身亡，博帕尔的美国联合碳化物(Union Carbide)泄露事件杀人无算。
The virus that causes AIDS was discovered. People started smoking crack. And Marvin Gaye was shot and killed by his father.
人类发现了导致艾滋病的病毒。人们开始吸食霹雳可卡因。马文·盖伊(Marvin Gaye)被自己的父亲枪杀。
1994 Whoa: Not only did Nelson Mandela not spend his life in jail, but he became president. The Brady Law went into effect, and Bill Clinton signed the assault weapons ban. (It expired in 2004.) O. J. Simpson spurred a national obsession. Four bombers were convicted of the 1993 attack on the World Trade Center.
1994年 哇：纳尔逊·曼德拉不仅没有在狱中度过余生，还成为了总统。《布来迪法案》生效，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)签署了攻击性武器禁令。（该法案2004年失效。）O·J·辛普森(O. J. Simpson)吸引了全国人民孜孜不倦的关注。四名安放炸弹者因为1993年袭击世贸中心案而被定罪。
Reagan was implicated in the Iran-contra cover-up, but it seemed more important to torture the Clintons over a bad real estate investment. (Still, Paula Jones wasn’t the Republicans’ fault, was she?) Clinton fired Joycelyn Elders for discussing masturbation.
里根卷入了伊朗门事件，但是似乎为了一桩糟糕的房地产投资而去拷问克林顿一家成了更重要的事。（尽管如此，保拉·琼斯[Paula Jones]不是共和党的错误，对吧？）克林顿因为乔伊斯林・埃尔德斯(Joycelyn Elders)谈论手淫而解雇了他。
The first credit default swap was created. Nearly everyone in Rwanda became either a killer or a victim, or so it seemed. And there was that messy thing in “the former Yugoslavia.”
第一个信用违约掉期产品被创造出来了。在卢旺达，几乎所有人要么在杀人，要么在被杀，反正看上去是这样。还有在“前南斯拉夫”那些烂事。
Netscape Navigator was released.
网景导航者(Netscape Navigator)浏览器发布。
2004 Barack Obama spoke at the Democratic convention and there seemed reason for hope; then John Kerry went windsurfing and W., incredibly, became president again (what were 62 million of us thinking?) several months after endorsing a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, which Massachusetts had already legalized. (By 2013, even Utah is on the right side of this issue.) W. also promised to improve education and access to health care; we all know how that worked out. Lance Armstrong won his sixth Tour de France; we all know how that worked out, too.
2004年 贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)在民主党大会上讲话，似乎让人们有了乐观的理由；然后约翰·克里(John Kerry)去玩帆板冲浪了，小布什，在支持了禁止同性婚姻的宪法修正案几个月后，不可思议地再次成为总统（我们中的那6200万人当时在想什么呢？），当时同性婚姻在马萨诸塞州已经合法化。（到了2013年，连犹他州在这一问题上都站到了正确的立场上。）小布什还承诺改善教育以及获得医疗保健的途径；最后结果如何我们都知道了。兰斯·阿姆斯特朗赢得了第六个环法冠军；最后结果如何我们也知道了。
The Indian Ocean tsunami killed more than 230,000 people. Martha Stewart went to jail. And Johnny Ramone (born 1948) died.
印度洋海啸导致超过23万人死亡。玛莎·史都华(Martha Stewart)入狱。约翰尼·雷蒙（Johnny Ramone，生于1948年）去世。
2014 President Obama is calling this the “year of action.” Here’s hoping he’s not bluffing and begins by demonstrating how popular progressive legislation is by circumventing Congress in areas of food, energy and climate change. The alternative could be a visit by the Four Horsemen.
2014年 奥巴马把今年叫做“行动年”。我们希望他不是在虚张声势，而是通过在食品、能源和气候变化领域击败国会，证明进步立法是多么受欢迎。否则我们迎来的也许会是四骑士。