1. Beyoncé “Beyoncé” (Parkwood Entertainment/Columbia) An ambush that landed after last year’s tabulations, Beyoncé's tour de force — a lustrous showcase of soulful dominion, sleek production, sensual abandon and feminist agency, not always in that order — kept its relevance during a long year swollen with distractions. The singing, like the attitude, is phenomenally assured yet full of nuance; the message is complicated but clear. It’s high-wire pop that refuses to pander.
1. 碧昂斯(Beyoncé)，《碧昂斯》，Parkwood Entertainment/Columbia。这张专辑是继去年的平淡后的一次突击，是碧昂斯的力作，它光彩夺目地展示了充满情感的统治力、精良的制作、欲望的放纵与女性主义的力量（不一定是按这个顺序），在漫长而充满众多娱乐的一年里一直令人关注。她的歌唱与她的态度一样，极为自信而又充满细节；她所传达的信息复杂而又清晰。这是高端的流行乐，拒绝曲意逢迎。
2. David Virelles “Mbókò” (ECM) The brilliant young pianist David Virelles continues his interrogation of Afro-Cuban culture and ritual with methodical cool but also an openness of spirit. With Román Díaz thrumming a percussive heartbeat, this intoxicating suite resonates with implications both ancient and state-of-the-art.
2. 大卫·维勒莱斯(David Virelles)，《姆波克》(Mbókò)，ECM。才华横溢的年轻钢琴手大卫·维勒莱斯继续着对非洲-古巴文化与仪式的深入研究，带着有条不紊的酷意与精神上的开放性。罗曼·迪亚兹(Román Díaz)担任打击乐手，这张迷人的组曲有着既古典又现代的深刻内涵。
3. Dan Weiss “Fourteen” (Pi Recordings) There’s so much in “Fourteen,” the album-length composition by the drummer Dan Weiss: meticulous chamber maneuvers; avant-garde yowling; wordless vocals of new-music and northern Indian pedigree. More impressive than the expansive frame of reference is the fact that Mr. Weiss, marshaling about a dozen of his peers, spins it all into a flowing fabric.
3. 丹·韦斯(Dan Weiss)，《14》，Pi Recordings。《14》的内容如此丰富，整张专辑的作曲由鼓手丹·韦斯一手包办：细节丰富的室内乐，前卫的啸叫，新音乐无词人声与北印度音乐。相比这个宏大的音乐参照系，更令人印象深刻的是，韦斯集结了12名同行乐手，把所有音乐元素融汇为流畅的整体。
4. Mark Turner Quartet “Lathe of Heaven” (ECM) On his first proper album as a leader in 13 years, the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner favors slithery interplay with the trumpeter Avishai Cohen, and finds new purpose in post-bop protocols. There’s dry intrigue in his compositions, and supple exactitude in his rhythm team: Joe Martin on bass, Marcus Gilmore on drums.
4. 马克·特纳四重奏(Mark Turner Quartet)，《天堂里的车床》(Lathe of Heaven)， ECM。这是次中音萨克斯手马克·特纳13年来第一次以领队身份推出专辑，他喜欢同小号手阿维沙伊·科恩(Avishai Cohen)奏出流畅的互动，在后波普规范中发现全新意义。他的作曲中有纯粹的神秘，由乔伊·马丁(Joe Martin)担任贝斯手，马库斯·基尔默(Marcus Gilmore)担任鼓手的节奏组亦是一丝不苟。
5. Fred Hersch Trio “Floating” (Palmetto) The articulate grace of Fred Hersch’s current piano trio, with the bassist John Hébert and the drummer Eric McPherson, finds potent expression on an album structured like a nightclub set, with a few retooled standards mixed in with sturdy, emotionally transparent original songs.
5. 弗莱德·赫什三人组(Fred Hersch Trio)，《漂浮》(Floating)， Palmetto。赫什目前的钢琴三人组由约翰·艾伯特(John Hébert)担任贝斯，埃里克·麦克菲森(Eric McPherson)担任鼓手，他们有着精确的优雅。这张专辑的结构如同一场夜间俱乐部演出，包括若干重新编配的标准曲，以及几首强劲而充满情感的原创曲，有着强大的表现力。
6. Miranda Lambert “Platinum” (RCA Nashville) Ms. Lambert went from plucky upstart to glittery country royalty in next to no time, but with “Platinum,” her best album, she walks that line with breezy authority. By turns sentimental and profane, with an ideal ratio of gloss to grit, it’s a reminder of her irreducible strengths, and a dare to anyone who’d undervalue them.
6. 米兰达·兰伯特(Miranda Lambert)，《白金》(Platinum)，RCA Nashville。兰伯特很快从坚强的新贵蜕变为光芒四射的乡村乐贵族，这张《白金》是她最好的专辑，她带着轻松的权威之感逾越了界限。专辑中伤感与世俗的情绪交替出现，修饰和粗粝的比例恰到好处，这张专辑让人们明白她有着强大的力量，向任何低估她实力的人发出挑战。
7. Flying Lotus “You’re Dead” (Warp) The new fusion makes no apologies for the old fusion, just a series of upgrades. As a producer, Flying Lotus values continuity as much as disruption, hazy beauty as well as jump-cut clamor. His suitelike reflection on death leaves room for irreverent wit — and, on “Never Catch Me,” one of the year’s best verses by Kendrick Lamar.
7. “飞翔莲花”(Flying Lotus)，《你死了》(You’re Dead)， Warp。新融合乐绝不会对旧融合乐说抱歉，这只是升级而已。身为制作人的“飞翔莲花”既注重延续性，也注重破坏、模糊之美与跳跃剪辑的喧闹。他对死亡的组曲式沉思为不虔敬的智慧留出空间，《永远不能抓住我》(Never Catch Me)这首歌的歌词由肯德里克·拉玛(Kendrick Lamar)创作，堪称年度最佳。
8. Sturgill Simpson “Metamodern Sounds in Country Music” (High Top Mountain) A throwback progressive hunkered down with a whip-smart band: country music has seen this before. But on his breakthrough second album, Sturgill Simpson made it a pliable trademark, grounded at every turn by his winning, seen-it-all baritone.
8. 斯特吉尔·辛普森(Sturgill Simpson)，《乡村音乐的大现代之声》(Matamodern Sound in Country Music)，High Top Mountain。一支极为聪敏的乐队做出复古的改革：乡村乐中曾经发生过这样的事。但在斯特吉尔·辛普森突破性的第二张专辑中，他把这一点变成了可适应环境的标志，就建立在他那动人而通透的男中音之上。
9. Ambrose Akinmusire “the imagined savior is far easier to paint” (Blue Note) The trumpeter Ambrose Akinmusire imbued his second Blue Note album with the searching, genre-fluid sound of today, enlisting singer-singers and a string quartet. His social commentary feels even more urgent and stinging now than it did when the album was released.
9. 安布罗斯·阿钦摩西尔(Ambrose Akinmusire)，《想像中的救世主更容易描绘》(the imagined savior is far easier to paint)，Blue Note。小号手安布罗斯·阿钦摩西尔为自己在Blue Note公司发行的第二张专辑注入了类型不固定，富于探索精神的今日之声，有许多歌手和一支弦乐四重奏组合参与。和这张专辑刚发行的时候相比，如今的他有了更多评论社会的迫切与讥讽时局的精神。
10. Run the Jewels “Run the Jewels 2” (Mass Appeal) Speaking of urgent and stinging, Killer Mike and El-P, veteran underground rappers from different scenes, found firm traction on their second round as Run the Jewels. Their flow is strong and their focus is furious on an album that calls out power structures but lets nobody off the hook.
10. “移动珠宝”(Run the Jewels)，《移动珠宝2》，Mass Appeal。说到迫切和讥讽，杀手麦克(Killer Mike)和EL-P都是地下说唱界不同圈子里的资深人士了，他们组成的“移动珠宝”在第二张专辑里找到了坚实的互相吸引。他们的说唱强大有力，关注点狂热喧闹，专辑抨击没有让任何人摆脱困境的权力结构。
TOP SONGS
最佳歌曲：
Beyoncé featuring Nicki Minaj “Flawless (Remix)” (Parkwood/Columbia)
碧昂斯与妮琪·米娜(Nicki Minaj)，《完美》(Flawless, Remix)，Parkwood/Columbia
FKA twigs “Two Weeks” (Young Turks)
“FKA细枝”(FKA twigs)，《两星期》(Two Weeks)，Young Turks
Beck “Say Goodbye” (Capitol)
贝克(Beck)，《说再见》(Say Goodbye)， Capito
Tinashe featuring Devonté Hynes “Bet” (RCA)
狄娜莎(Tinashe)与德文戴·西尼斯(Devonté Hynes)，《打赌》(Bet)， RCA
St. Vincent “Digital Witness” (Loma Vista/Republic)
圣文森特(St. Vincent)，《数码证人》(Digital Witness)， Loma Vista/Republic
Sylvan Esso “Coffee” (Partisan)
西尔万·埃索(Sylvan Esso)，《咖啡》(Coffee)， Partisan
Miranda Lambert “Bathroom Sink” (RCA Nashville)
米兰达·兰伯特，《浴室水槽》(Bathroom Sink)，RCA Nashville
Neneh Cherry “Blank Project” (Smalltown Supersound)
妮妮·切利(Neneh Cherry)，《空白计划》(Blank Project)， Smalltown Supersound
Taylor Swift “Blank Space” (Big Machine)
泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)，《空白空间》(Blank Space)， Big Machine
Usher “Good Kisser” (RCA)
亚瑟小子(Usher)，《擅长接吻的人》(Good Kisser)，RCA