It was another great season for men’s wear in Paris, which wrapped up over the weekend. Some credit has to be handed to the beautiful City of Lights itself, a stunning backdrop for the Fall/Winter 2014 collections. Some of the designers presented their most thoughtful and memorable shows yet, including the following top five.
本周末落幕的这一季巴黎男装周又是非常精彩。这个美丽的灯光之城本身就值得赞许，它为2014年秋冬系列提供了迷人的背景。有些设计师展示了他们最深思熟虑、最令人难忘的时装秀，下面是最棒的五场时装秀。
Thom Browne, an American in Paris, achieved the perfect balance of wearable and weird in his tweedy romp in the woodlands. Despite being set against a forest sculpted entirely of woolens and paired with Stephen Jones’s insanely inventive hats and headpieces in the shapes of various fauna, Browne’s show was a reminder that he makes original, beautifully tailored clothing that people can actually wear. He executed his signature suit shape — cropped trousers, short jackets, tight sleeves — in a range of harmonious grey tweeds. Edges were unfinished and seams sprouted fringe for an authentically rustic look. It was one of his best collections to date.
在巴黎工作的美国人桑姆·布郎尼(Thom Browne)在林地里轻松嬉戏，在适合穿着和怪异之间取得了完美的平衡。尽管背景的树林全是用毛织品做成的，配饰是斯蒂芬·琼斯(Stephen Jones)设计的疯狂的、别出心裁的帽子和各种动物形状的头饰，布郎尼的时装秀在提醒人们他设计的服装新颖、剪裁优美，而且适合穿着。他用一系列协调的灰色粗花呢制作他的标志性西服套装——七分裤、短上衣、紧袖子。裤腿和袖口都是毛边，缝合线露在外面，真有一种质朴的感觉。这是他到目前为止最棒的系列之一。
Hedi Slimane continued to mine the iconic style of musicians, pegging the rockabilly artist as the “it” hipster for Saint Laurent. Guys in shades and with tight quiffs careened past the front row wearing skintight, high-waisted trousers; chunky, crepe-soled creepers; boxy houndstooth coats and leather jackets with leopard detailing. Short, plaid scarves were knotted and then tossed over one shoulder for a nice retro flourish. True to the era the clothes invoked, there were even varied tailored silhouettes. But the return of the three-button jacket, with the buttons placed higher up and a slender lapel, was the most striking.
艾迪·斯理曼(Hedi Slimane)继续挖掘音乐家的标志性风格，把乡村摇滚艺术家定为圣罗兰(Saint Laurent)的“时尚”人物。模特们戴着墨镜，留着密集的额发，斜着走过前排，身穿紧身高腰裤；短宽的、有绉纱衬底的蛤蟆服；短宽的犬牙纹外衣和带有豹纹的皮夹克。短格子围巾打结后甩到一侧肩膀上，是优美的复古华饰。与这些衣服所唤醒的那个时代一致的是，这些衣服的裁剪各不相同。但是三纽扣西服上衣的回归是最引人注目的，有着细长的翻领，钮扣钉得很高。
For his first seated runway show, Alexandre Mattiusi created a snow-covered city square to present Ami, his well-priced sportswear line with a little French flair. The collection showcased the mix-and-match quality of the local favorite’s designs — for example, a chunky knit with matching scarf layered over a perfectly cut trouser and under the right double-breasted camel coat. Models in these simply styled looks gathered together under frosty streetlamps after they passed for a très charmant finale. 
亚历山大·马蒂西(Alexandre Mattiusi)为自己的第一场提供座位的时装秀设计了白雪覆盖的城市广场，来展示他的Ami品牌，这是个价格不菲、有点法国特色的运动服系列。这个系列展示了当地人最爱的混搭风格，比如厚实的针织衫和配套的围巾，搭配精心剪裁的长裤和双排扣驼色外衣。在走完特别迷人的最后一圈后，模特们穿着这些风格简单的服装聚集在灰蒙蒙的路灯下。
When I went backstage after the show to chat with Dries Van Noten and his partner, Patrick Vangheluwe, they explained that the heavily color-driven collection was inspired by a combination of street wear of the ’80s and ’90s (think: club kids and ravers) and the most elegant paintings of the High Renaissance by Bronzino. The description summed up the pleated, collared, tunic-style shirts fastened with pearl studs that were mixed with strapped and zipped pants and coats in tie-dyed brights, some with matching fur-lined scarves. The beautifully choreographed finale of gangs in their coordinating bright colors gave me goosebumps. 
发布会结束后，我到后台与德里·范·诺滕(Dries Van Noten)及其搭档帕特里克·范格吕威(Patrick Vangheluwe)闲谈，他们解释说这个主要由颜色驱动的系列的灵感来源是20世纪八九十年代的街头服饰（想想经常泡俱乐部的孩子或锐舞小子）以及文艺复兴鼎盛期布龙齐诺(Bronzino)最优雅的油画。这个描述概括了这个系列最重要的特征：衬衣有褶饰，有领圈，用珍珠装饰；长裤用带子和拉链装饰；外衣的亮丽颜色是扎染出来的；有些服装搭配皮毛围巾。精心设计的最后一场以其协调的亮丽颜色美得让我战栗。
Raf Simons met the L.A.-based artist Sterling Ruby nine years ago through a gallerist, and the two have been close friends ever since. Talking about the collection they presented under a new label this season (Raf Simons/Sterling Ruby), Simons explained, “The whole idea was not to do an artist collaboration in the sense that a fashion designer asks an artist to design the bags.” So instead, they designed it all together. The camel coats, knits and trenches bore appliquéd fabrics, colorful patches and phrases, making the garments look like true extensions of the artists. To put his mark on the runway, Ruby draped it with his soft, monumental sculpture of dripping fangs.
拉夫·西蒙(Raf Simons)九年前通过一位画廊老板结识了洛杉矶艺术家斯特林·鲁比(Sterling Ruby)，他们从此成了密友。在谈起他们新品牌（拉夫·西蒙/斯特林·鲁比）这一季的服装系列时，西蒙解释说，“我们的整个想法不是一位时装设计师请一位艺术家设计皮包这样的艺术合作。”相反，他们一起设计。驼色外套、针织衫和大衣上有镶饰的织物、彩色补丁和短语，让这些服装看起来像是两位艺术家的真实延伸。为了让秀台具有自己的印记，鲁比用他经典的柔软而滴落的毒牙雕塑装饰舞台。