The first round of men’s fashion shows this year, London Collections: Men, have come to an end. From street-wear-inspired looks to the more refined and elegant clothing we expect from England’s capital, here are the five best shows from the Fall/Winter 2014 runways so far.
今年男装秀的第一轮——伦敦男装周——已经结束了。其中既有以街头服饰为灵感的服装，也有我们期待中英国首都特有的更精致、优雅的服装。下面是到目前为止2014秋冬秀台上最好的五场时装秀。
Christopher Bailey’s first collection as CEO of Burberry came down the runway under a transparent tent below the gilt gaze of Prince Albert in Kensington Gardens. Entitled “A Painterly Journey,” the show reflected Bailey’s fascination with the life of an artist. The designer cited Lucian Freud as one the English creative types who inspired him this season. The outerwear-heavy collection curiously featured unseasonable mesh tank tops as the base layer for the entire range — an unexpected, sexy twist. Lush shearling and mohair coats in relaxed shapes were draped on one side with Constructivist-like versions of the house’s iconic plaid scarf for an eccentric touch.
克里斯托弗·贝利(Christopher Bailey)在就任博柏利(Burberry)首席执行官之后的第一个系列在肯辛顿花园一个透明帐篷下的秀台上展示，公园中阿尔伯特亲王的雕像俯瞰着这里。这场时装秀名叫《画家之旅》(A Painterly Journey)，反映出贝利对艺术家生活的迷恋。这位设计师说卢西恩·佛洛伊德(Lucian Freud)是这一季启发他的英国创意源头之一。这个以外套为主的系列奇怪地把不合季节的网眼背心作为整个系列的底衫，具有意想不到的性感。奢华的羊毛和马海毛外套比较宽松，一边肩膀上搭着该公司标志性的格子围巾的建构主义版本，有点古怪的感觉。
Margaret Howell’s collections whisper more than they shout, which is part of their allure. She’s an English treasure who has quietly been turning out refined essentials for decades — sans loud graphics or statement accessories. Her elegant clothing, always well proportioned and cut, includes all the wardrobe staples a man needs. A navy drop-shouldered turtleneck sweater worn with trim, single-pleated trousers and black lace-up boots was a study in understated simplicity.
玛格丽特·豪厄尔(Margaret Howell)的系列更像浅吟低唱，而不是大声疾呼，这是它们的魅力之一。她是英国的瑰宝，几十年来悄悄推出了很多精致的必备服装，没有花哨的图形或抢眼的配饰。她优雅的服装总是具有极佳的比例和剪裁，包括男人需要的全部主要服装。一件海军蓝垂肩高领毛衣搭配纤细的单褶皱长裤和黑色系带靴子有着考究的低调简洁。
Last season, Tom Ford went tieless, celebrating the basic white V-neck tee under his sumptuous evening jackets. For fall, he continues to explore the casual side of his well-heeled devotees with voluminous coats of shearling and double-faced cashmere, paired with slightly cropped trousers for a decisively ’60s vibe that has become the house’s look of late. New to the collection, and something Ford has resisted until now, is a sneaker. A surefire hit, the high- and low-top versions are made with the same three-day polishing process as his fine, bench-made shoes.
上一季，汤姆·福特(Tom Ford)没用领带，而是突出华丽晚装上衣里面的白色V领基本款T恤。在秋装系列里，他继续探索他穿着考究的拥趸们随意的一面，设计了很多羊毛和双面羊绒外套，搭配稍微有点短的裤子，有强烈的20世纪60年代感觉——这已经成了该公司的最新形象。这个系列中比较新的东西是一款运动鞋，福特直到最近才接受它。这种鞋肯定会大卖，不管是高帮的还是低帮的，都像他精致的手工制作的鞋子一样需要经过三天的打磨。
Christopher Shannon pegs the 1970s as the period when the tracksuit took on a more expansive role in the casual wardrobe of the world. Now, the matching set forms the foundation for his eye-popping collection, which includes a terrific take on casual pants: trim, ankle-zip trousers in printed nylon and sleek leather. Bright, oversize florals printed on quilted parkas, shorts and track pants gave this tough street-wear set a sweet finish.Call me a sucker for the straightforward, but what’s not to love about the classic sweater-and-jeans combo? 
克里斯托弗·香农(Christopher Shannon)的系列锁定了20世纪70年代，当时运动服开始广泛出现在世界各地的便装衣橱里。如今，运动套装成为他惊人系列的基础，包括非常漂亮的休闲裤：用印花尼龙和光滑皮料做成的纤细的、脚踝处有拉链的裤子。鲜艳的超大花朵印在夹棉皮大衣、短裤和运动裤上，给这个强硬的街头系列带来一丝甜蜜的味道。如果我太直白，就当我是花痴吧，但是有什么理由不爱经典运动衫加牛仔裤的搭配呢？
Lou Dalton‘s charming fall collection, inspired by the farmers’ workwear she grew up around, peaks with a Fair Isle knit crew-neck that looks as though it’s being worn inside-out, layered over a buttoned-up shirt and splotchy, bleached jeans (a simmering trend). Corduroy caps by Bernstock Spiers and high lace-up boots by English shoemaker Grenson were the perfect finishing touches on this lovely poem of a show.
卢·达尔顿(Lou Dalton)迷人的秋季系列受到她成长环境中见到的农民工作服启发，其中最好看的是一件雪花图案圆领毛衣，它看起来像是里外穿反了，里面搭配的是系扣衬衫和有污迹的漂白牛仔裤（马上就会流行）。这场秀如同诗歌一般美好，伯恩斯达克·施皮尔斯(Bernstock Spiers)设计的灯芯绒帽子和英国制鞋公司Grenson的高帮系带靴为它更添完美。