In 2015, China’s citizens wanted to find out about health, money, the law and love — or marriage, at least.
在2015年，中国网民想要了解关于健康、金钱、法律和爱情——至少是婚姻——的事情。
And they were preoccupied with deadly explosions, the erratic stock market, second children and a very public sex act in a dressing room.
但是他们却不得不全神贯注于致多人伤亡的爆炸、飘忽不定的股市、二孩政策以及一间更衣室里的公开性行为。
Those topics dominated China’s national psyche this year, if Internet searches are any indication, according to a year-end review by Baidu, the country’s most popular search engine.
如果网络搜索可以作为风向标的话，根据中国最受欢迎的搜索引擎百度所做的年终回顾，正是这些话题在今年占据了中国国民的精神世界。
While not a formal survey, the results are a snapshot into the thinking of China’s more than 668 million Internet users. The results broadly agree with other lists of topics discussed on social media in China over the past year.
虽然这并非一项正式调查，但是结果让人得以一窥逾6.68亿中国网友的想法。它与其他一些有关过去一年中国社交媒体讨论话题的榜单大体一致。
The news of the year was led by the Sept. 3 military parade to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the victory over Japan in World War II. A rather less sanctioned display, of a couple who filmed themselves in a Uniqlo fitting room, was fourth on the list. The deadly explosions in Tianjin in August and the ending of China’s “one-child” policy were second and third.
位于年度新闻排行榜之首的是9月3日为纪念二战战胜日本70周年举行的阅兵仪式。排行第四的表演可就没怎么获得批准：一对情侣在优衣库(Uniqlo)试衣间自拍影片。排第二和第三的分别是8月的天津大爆炸，以及中国终止“独生子女政策”。
A separate list, ranking the top questions posed on the search engine, was led by inquiries about how quickly people could marry. Baidu users asked about the legal age of marriage — it is 20 for women and 22 for men — and the necessary paperwork.
另外有一个榜单列出的是搜索引擎上的热门问题，位居第一的是人们多快可以结婚。百度用户问了法定结婚年龄——答案为女性是20岁，男性是22岁——以及结婚需要准备的文件。
Several questions related to health and safety: What are the best foods to eat during menstruation? What color car should one buy for safety reasons? Are the nitrites in food really so terrible?
其中几个问题涉及了健康与安全：月经期间吃什么好？买什么颜色的汽车会比较安全？食品中的亚硝酸盐真的那么恐怖吗？
The list included a question that permeates much online activity: Why do people get bored?
榜单中还包括一个在网络间广泛流传的问题：为什么人会感到无聊？
Perhaps the most mysterious question was: “How is our subconscious leaking our secrets?” Part of the answer might be online search queries.
或许最玄妙的问题是：“潜意识是如何泄露我们的秘密的？”一部分的答案或许就是上网询问。