Will President Obama approve the Keystone XL oil pipeline? Up until recently, I always assumed that Obama would, sooner or later, despite the protests of the environmental community. In March 2012, for instance, he spoke positively about the proposed pipeline, which would bring oil mined from the tar sands of Alberta to refineries along the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, approval of the pipeline is important to the government of Canada, our neighbor and ally.
奥巴马总统会批准Keystone XL输油管线吗？这条管线计划将艾伯塔的油砂中开采的石油输送至墨西哥湾的冶炼厂。直到最近，我还一直认为，奥巴马迟早会不顾环保圈的抗议而予以批准。比方说，2012年3月，他以肯定的语气谈起这条提议中的管线。此外，批准这一项目还对我们的邻国和盟友加拿大的政府颇为重要。
But several things happened in 2014 that now make me think he will turn it down. The first is that the glut of oil — largely because of the increase in production in the United States — has made the oil from the tar sands unnecessary, at least for now. Second, as the president moves into legacy mode, saying no to Keystone could firm up his credentials as a leader who tried to do something about climate change. And, finally, Republicans, who will control both the House and the Senate in January, have vowed to send the president a bill approving construction of the pipeline. Vetoing that bill would be very much in keeping with the bolder, more confrontational persona Obama has displayed since the midterm elections.
不过，2014年发生了几件事情，让我如今认为奥巴马会予以否决。首先是石油的供大于求——很大程度上是因为美国本土产量的提升——让油砂采油变得不必要起来，至少目前如此。其次是总统进入了政治遗产累积模式，而对Keystone说“不”可以巩固他作为试图应对气候变化的领导人的名声。最后是因为共和党人：将于1月份开始同时掌控参众两院的共和党人已发誓要把批准建设这条管线的提案送到总统案前，而否决该提案将非常符合中期选举后奥巴马展示的那种更大胆、对抗性更强的形象。
Will insider-trading prosecutions disappear? Thanks to a recent decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, they just might. The ruling overturned the convictions of two hedge fund managers who had made stock trades based on information they received, third- or fourth-hand, from corporate insiders. Because they didn’t know the identity of the insiders — or whether those insiders were receiving any tangible benefit for leaking information — the court ruled that the fund managers had not committed a crime. Thus did the appeals court define insider trading narrowly, making it difficult to charge anybody who did not directly pay off a source for information.
针对内幕交易的诉讼会消失吗？拜联邦第二巡回上诉法院近期的一项判决所赐，的确很可能消失。这次判决推翻了对两名对冲基金经理人的有罪裁定。二人根据企业内部人士的三四手消息进行了股票交易。由于两人既不清楚这些内部人士的身份，也不知晓内部人士是否从泄露消息中获取了任何切实的利益，上诉法院判定，这两名经理人无罪。通过这样做，法院对内幕交易进行了严格定义，从而使得检察部门难以起诉任何没有直接贿赂消息源的人。
To some degree, the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission are reaping what they sowed. There is no law that defines the crime of insider trading; instead the rules for what is, or is not, illegal have evolved through court cases. For years, that suited the government, which could try to stretch the definition from case to case. But now the judiciary is drastically shrinking that definition. James B. Stewart, the Times business columnist, recently wrote that the country needs an insider-trading statute to define the crime, once and for all. He’s right.
从一定程度上说，司法部和证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)是自作自受。界定内幕交易罪的法律仍是空白；因此，确定何为非法行为、何为合法行为的规则，是通过法庭案件来完善的。多年以来，美国政府相当适应这个做法，一直可以通过案例来拉伸定义。但是，司法部门这次在急剧缩小这个定义。《纽约时报》专栏作者詹姆斯·B·斯图尔特(James B. Stewart)最近写道，美国需要一部内幕交易法，来一劳永逸地界定这项犯罪。他说得没错。
Will the average college football coach make more than the average professional football coach? Well, it probably won’t happen in 2015, but we are headed in that direction. As of this fall, the average pay for the head coaches in the five wealthiest football conferences (the “power five”) was $2.96 million. Professional coaches made nearly twice as much, $4.85 million. But more and more, colleges are luring top coaches by offering them pro-like salaries. The most recent example is Jim Harbaugh. Paid $5 million a year to coach the San Francisco 49ers, he has reportedly agreed to leave the pro ranks for the University of Michigan Wolverines for $8 million a year. No doubt, the Michigan trustees calculated that he would be worth that much if he returned the school to its former football glory. But it’s another reminder that college football is every bit the multibillion-dollar business that the N.F.L. is. Except, of course, that the players don’t get paid. (By the way, the upcoming issue of The Washington Monthly has an illuminating article about the controversy that ensued a century ago when college coaches first began to be paid.)
平均而言，高校橄榄球教练将比职业橄榄球教练赚更多钱吗？好吧，2015年可能不会，但我们会朝着那个方向迈进。今年秋季，五个最富有的大学橄榄球联盟（称为“五大超级联盟”）的主教练平均薪酬是296万美元（约合1835万元人民币）。职业联赛教练的薪酬差不多是这个数字的两倍，达485万美元。但高校正在越来越多地用职业教练般的薪水吸引顶级教练。最近的例子是吉姆·哈博(Jim Harbaugh)。他执教旧金山49人队(San Francisco 49ers)时的年薪为500万美元。据报道，他同意离开职业联盟，任教密歇根大学狼獾队(Michigan Wolverines)，年薪为800万美元。毫无疑问，密歇根大学的管理层经过计算，觉得如果他能让该校球队重现昔日辉煌，他就值那么多钱。不过，此事再次提醒人们，大学橄榄球和美国职业橄榄球大联盟(NFL)一样，也是价值数百亿美元的生意。当然，只是大学的球员没有薪酬。（顺便说一句，即将发行的新一期《华盛顿月刊》[Washington Monthly]刊登了一篇很有启发性的文章，讲的是大约一个世纪前，大学球队教练刚开始拿薪酬时引发的争议）。
Will Uber survive? I’m only being partly facetious. Uber has an enormous war chest and is a popular service that now operates in 255 cities. But it has a serious problem: It keeps bumping into government resistance. When a company like, say, Skype began offering free phone calls, it disrupted the telephone industry. But the phone companies couldn’t do much about it. Uber, however, is disrupting services that are controlled and regulated by governments. Uber can argue all it wants that those government regulations are outmoded. It can even be right.
Uber能够挺下来吗？我只是在半开玩笑。Uber坐拥大笔资金，而且在255座城市中开展了很受欢迎的业务。但一个重大问题是：它一直在遭受政府的阻碍。像Skype这样的公司提供免费通话服务，虽然对电话行业进行了颠覆，但电话公司可以做的事情并不多。然而Uber颠覆的是被政府控制和监管的一种服务。当然Uber可以争论，那些政府监管过时了。这种说法甚至有可能是正确的。
But it doesn’t matter. Governments have the power to push back. Uber has been ruled illegal in Nevada. South Korea went so far as to indict Travis Kalanick, Uber’s chief executive, charging that the company violated “local licensing laws,” according to The Times. There are lots more examples.
但是这并不重要。因为政府拥有阻止它的权力。Uber已在内华达州被裁定为非法。据时报报道，韩国还起诉了Uber首席执行官特拉维斯·卡兰尼克(Travis Kalanick)，指控该公司侵犯了“本地许可证法规”。这样的例子有很多。