The fashion circus somersaulted its way through 2015, its merry-go-round spinning ever faster, its social media feeds ever more elastic, its jaw-dropping acts increasingly … well, jaw -dropping, as the year went on: Paris recreated in Rome! Performance artists on a pier! A show as a music video! What stood out amid this year’s silk-draped, star-spangled carnival? Let us count the defining moments and memories on two hands.
2015年，时尚界像马戏团一样翻着筋斗前进，它的旋转木马比以往转得更快，社交媒体帖子更灵活，出现了更多令人惊愕的事件：在罗马重造的巴黎！码头上的行为艺术家！音乐视频形式的时装秀！今年锦衣华服、星光璀璨的狂欢节上最引人注目的是什么呢？让我们用双手数一数今年的重要时刻和记忆。
The trending topic was time.
时间是热门话题。
By summer, time was all anyone could talk about: the lack of it, the impossibility of being creative without it. Too many collections, too much travel, too much social media, too much shopping, went the refrain. Woe is us; there is no moment to reflect.! Does this sound familiar? Time has been a fashion bugaboo before, but this year the pressure reached a new level of intensity, down to being cited as the culprit for various designer departures. Still, no one seems to know how to slow down the cycle down. Not even Apple.
夏季到来的时候，所有人都在抱怨没时间，抱怨没时间怎么可能有创造力。系列太多，旅行太多，社交媒体太多，购物太多……哎，我们呀，没时间思考！这听起来是不是很熟悉？时间不够一直是时尚界头疼的问题，但是今年，时间压力达到了新的高度，成为多位设计师离职的原因。不过，似乎谁也不知道怎么能让节奏慢下来。甚至包括苹果公司(Apple)。
Gucci achieved total front- row domination.
古驰(Gucci)完全掌控了头排主导权。
When Alessandro Michele took the reins at the house the horse-bit loafer built in January, Gucci was widely regarded as having lost its oomphf, both creatively and commercially.
今年1月，亚历山德罗·米歇尔(Alessandro Michele)开始在古驰的新大楼里执掌这家公司时，人们普遍认为该品牌已经失去魅力，不管在创意方面还是商业方面。
Fast-forwardJump ahead one season, and the newly renovated store in Milan was being pillaged by rampaging editors, and seemingly half of the front row was turned out in looks from Mr. Michele’s debut collection, from his kangaroo- fur-lined house slipper loafers to his green and burgundy floral suits. (When both both the Harper’s Bazaar editor Glenda Bailey and the blogger Bryanboy are wearing the same print, you know something is going on.) One brand hasn’t so thoroughly caught the fashion flock’s imagination, or pocketbook, in years.
仅在一季之后，米兰新装修的店铺就遭到时尚编辑们疯狂抢购，头排名人几乎有一半穿的是米歇尔新推出的系列，从袋鼠毛镶边室内拖鞋式便鞋到绿色和酒红色印花套装（《时尚芭莎》[Harper’s Bazaar]的主编格伦达·贝利[Glenda Bailey]和时尚博主Bryanboy穿着同样的印花，由此可见古驰的受欢迎程度）。这么多年，还没有哪个品牌能如此彻底地满足时尚人士的想象力，让他们愿意一掷千金。
Caitlyn Jenner and Taraji P. Henson raised the celebrity style stakes.
凯特琳·詹纳(Caitlyn Jenner)和塔拉吉·P·亨森(Taraji P. Henson)提升了名人风尚的地位。
With Caitlyn Jenner’s Zac Posen bustiers and her Versace gown, her emergence as afashion figure and her embrace of old-school glamour spurred a new debate, on styleand opinion pages, about what it means to be “feminine.” At the same time, dominating the small screen and the red carpet was Taraji P. Henson, whose breakthrough character, Cookie Lyon of “Empire,” unabashedly embraced hi-bling (think Moschino, Versace and Tom Ford), while the actress portraying her strutted her own brand of understated, streetwise cool. When Ms. Henson appeared at the Emmys in September in Alexander Wang’s chain-bedecked black gown, she won the night even before the awards were announced.
凯特琳·詹纳的Zac Posen紧身胸衣、范思哲(Versace)礼服，以及作为时尚人物的身份、对传统魅力的钟爱，在风尚和观点版面上引发了新一轮关于“女性魅力”的讨论。与此同时，塔拉吉·P·亨森主导着电视屏幕和红毯，她在《嘻哈帝国》(Empire)中饰演的突破性角色库基·莱昂(Cookie Lyon)公然炫耀高级时装（比如Moschino、范思哲和Tom Ford），而这位女演员本人却喜欢低调的街头流行服饰。今年9月，亨森身穿Alexander Wang链条肩带黑色礼服在艾美奖(Emmys)颁奖礼上亮相，奖项尚未公布，她已成为那个夜晚的赢家。
Age did not affect influence.
影响力与年龄无关。
One of the the fastest movers of product turned out to be Princess Charlotte. The latest addition to the British royal family proved she was as much a fashion influencer as her mother and older brother, causing a sellout in smocked floral dresses by the Spanish label M & H when her latest pictures appeared, much as Prince George did for Rachel Riley smocked rompers and Petit Bateau overalls. Malia Obama was a close runner-up, proving it’s not just Disney stars who set the tone for the younger set. Can Saint West be far behind?
结果证明，最具销售号召力的人物之一是夏洛特公主(Princess Charlotte)。英国皇室的这位最新成员证明自己对时尚的影响力可以与妈妈和哥哥相提并论。她的最新照片曝光后，她穿的西班牙品牌M&H的印花连衣裙很快脱销，就像乔治王子(Prince George)曾让Rachel Riley连裤衫和Petit Bateau连体衣卖脱销一样。马莉娅·奥巴马(Malia Obama)紧随其后，证明不是只有迪士尼明星能引领年轻人的潮流。圣·韦斯特(Saint West)肯定也不会落后。
Gender nonconformity went from reality to runway.
性别融合从现实走向秀台。
The divide between men’s wear and women’s wear is seeming ever more pointless, as labels like Vetements, Telfar and Public School mix boys and girls on the runway and in the wardrobe. Fashion reflects society, after all, and we are in a gender-nonconformist age. Why shouldn’t all consumers be able to dress the part? And this is no fad: Pantone’s color of 2016 is a duo — rose quartz and serenity — where pink fades into blue and vice versa.
男装和女装的区分似乎越来越没有意义了，Vetements、Telfar和Public School等品牌在秀台上和店铺里把男装和女装混到一起展示。毕竟，时装反映社会，我们生活在一个性别融合的时代。为什么顾客们不能在服装上体现这一点呢？这不是短暂的潮流：潘通(Pantone)的2016年度色彩就是一个组合——粉水晶和宁静蓝天——粉色和蓝色相互向对方融合。
There was an earthquake in French fashion.
法国时尚界发生巨变。
It all started with such stability, but come August, French fashion was rent bychange. Alexander Wang and Balenciaga agreed to part ways after three years, Mr. Wang to concentrate on his own brand, and Balenciaga to hire Demna Gvasalia, the frontman of the in-your-face upstart collaborative Vetements, known for its gritty Margiela-influenced deconstructed streetwear.
一开始挺稳定的，但是从8月份开始，法国时尚界出现一系列动荡。王大仁(Alexander Wang)和巴黎世家(Balenciaga)在合作三年之后决定分道扬镳。王大仁将专注于自己的品牌，而巴黎世家将聘用戴姆娜·吉瓦萨利亚(Demna Gvasalia)，她是肆无忌惮的新兴品牌Vetements的主要设计师，该品牌的特色是粗糙的、受Margiela启发的解构主义街头服饰。
Mere weeks later, Raf Simons and Dior announced they were splitting (a personal decision on the part of the designer), and only a week after that, Lanvin fired Alber Elbaz, its designer of 14 years. Both of those houses have yet to name replacements, and expectations are high that another round of fashion dominoes is about to fall.
仅在几周之后，拉夫·西蒙斯(Raf Simons)和迪奥(Dior)宣布他们也将分手（这是设计师的个人决定）。一周之后，浪凡(Lanvin)宣布解雇在职14年的设计师阿尔贝·埃尔巴兹(Alber Elbaz)。这两家公司尚未任命后继者，可以想见，新一轮时尚多米诺效应即将到来。
Generational change hit New York.
纽约在经历世代变迁。
The big three that defined and dominated New York fashion for decades (Donna, Ralph and Calvin) are down to one — or maybe even 0.75. This was the year Donna Karan joined Calvin Klein in jumping off the hamster wheel, although unlike Mr. Klein, Ms. Karan was not replaced, and her namesake main line is no more. Instead, LVMH, the owner of Donna Karan International, has doubled down on DKNY, literally: appointing Maxwell Osborne and Dao-Yi Chow, the buzzy designers of Public School, to the label.
纽约时尚界数十年来的三大支柱（唐娜[Donna]、拉夫[Ralph]和卡尔文[Calvin]）现在只剩一个了，甚至应该说只剩下0.75个。今年，唐娜·卡兰(Donna Karan)和卡尔文·克莱恩(Calvin Klein)跳下了时尚界的仓鼠轮，不过不像克莱恩，卡兰不是被人取代，而是她的同名主品牌不复存在。唐娜·卡兰国际公司(Donna Karan International)的所有者路威酩轩集团(LVMH)实际上用两个人取代了她：名声大噪的Public School设计师马克斯韦尔·奥斯本(Maxwell Osborne)和周道一。
That leaves Ralph Lauren as the last tent polestanding, though even he is thinking, “What’s next?” and ceded the C.E.O. title to Stefan Larsson, the ex-chieftain of Old Navy, for the first time. Waiting in the wings is Proenza Schouler, which took on investment (and a new chief executive) from the private equity firm Castanea Partners in June with the aim of vaulting to the truly global level.
拉夫·劳伦成了最后一根依然挺立的支柱，不过，连他也在考虑：“谁来接任我呢？”他第一次把首席执行官的位置让给了Old Navy的前主管斯特凡·拉松(Stefan Larsson)。蓄势待发的是普罗恩扎·斯库勒(Proenza Schouler)。今年6月，该品牌获得私募股权公司Castanea Partners的投资（并任命了新的首席执行官），希望成为真正的国际公司。
Fast fashion became a hot mess.
快速时尚变得一团糟。
It was an annus horribilis for the old American standbys Gap, Abercrombie & Fitch and J. Crew, with falling sales and what seemed like a disappearing consumer base. The bright spot was Target, which broke the Internet with its Lilly Pulitzer limited edition, as did H & M with its Alexander Wang and Balmain collaborations. Apparently there is no limit to the lengths we will go to grab a blink-and-you’ll-miss-it bargain, no matter how hackneyed the form has become.
对美国老牌Gap、Abercrombie & Fitch和J. Crew来说，今年犹如噩梦，销售下滑，客户流失。Target的表现还算可圈可点，莉莉·普利策(Lilly Pulitzer)为该品牌设计的限量版服装在网上引起轰动。H&M与Alexander Wang和Balmain的合作效果也不错。显然，我们会不遗余力地抢购转瞬即逝的特价服装，不管它的样式多么普通。
Nudity was the new black (tie).
裸体是新的流行色。
From the Met Gala to the Grammys, the newsmaking looks on the red carpet looked awfully see-through. Beyoncé, J. Lo, Kim Kardashian and Miley Cyrus duked it out in the barely-dressed stakes, suggesting that when it came to statement-making entrances, less was more. Someone get those women some clothes.
从大都会艺术博物馆慈善晚宴(Met Gala)到格莱美颁奖礼(Grammys)，引起轰动的红毯造型都是透视装。碧昂斯(Beyoncé)、詹妮弗·洛佩兹(J. Lo)、金·卡戴珊(Kim Kardashian)和麦莉·赛勒斯(Miley Cyrus)在暴露身体方面一决高下，表明要想在入场时引起轰动，穿得越少效果越好。赶紧给这些女人送点衣服吧。
And some said goodbye to all that.
有些品牌谢幕。
It’s a Darwinian fashion world out there, and not every brand survives. This was the year we said farewell to Band of Outsiders (at least as we knew it under the founder,Scott Sternberg; apparently it will be revived next year in a different form), as well as the namesake labels of Reed Krakoff, Kris von Assche and Jonathan Saunders. Marc by Marc Jacobs was absorbed into Marc Jacobs, and Burberry London, Burberry Brit and Burberry Prorsum are being merged into Burberry. Farewell, multiple lines; hello, simplified offerings with multiple price points. But if you think that means anything will slow down in 2016, I have a gold-plated bridge I can sell you.
时尚界也是适者生存，不是每个品牌都能存活下来。今年，我们告别了Band of Outsiders（至少不再由它的创始人斯科特·斯滕伯格[Scott Sternberg]掌管，明年它显然将以另一种方式复活），还有里德·克拉考夫(Reed Krakoff)、克里斯·冯·埃斯契(Kris von Assche)和乔纳森·桑德斯(Jonathan Saunders)的同名品牌。马克·雅可布之马克(Marc by Marc Jacobs)并入马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)；博柏利伦敦(Burberry London)、博柏利英国(Burberry Brit)和Burberry Prorsum全部并入博柏利。再见，多个品牌线；嗨，有多个价位的简化版品牌线。不过，如果你认为那意味着2016年的节奏会慢下来，我打赌你猜错了。