There are plenty of exciting places to go this year, but there also will be new ways to get there. Here are a few of our favorites.
今年有很多令人兴奋的去处，也有很多新方法可以到达那些地方。下面这几种是我们最喜欢的。
Heli-Skiing
乘直升机到高山滑雪
On the 50th anniversary of heli-skiing’s birth, head to British Columbia, home to CMH Heli-Skiing, the sport’s gorilla, with 11 lodges sprinkled across unreal mountain ranges, and CMH Bugaboo Lodge, whose bar and living area have been renovated for the winter. Can’t spare a week? CMH and others now offer shorter options to attract a younger, busy clientele.
今年是直升机高山滑雪(heli-skiing)诞生50周年，那就去加拿大的不列颠哥伦比亚省吧。那里是这项运动的领头羊CMH滑雪公司的所在地，有11个山林小屋散布在如梦如幻的山脊上。为了这个冬季，CMH的巴格布小屋(Bugaboo Lodge)装修了酒吧和居住区。你抽不出一周的时间？现在，为了吸引年轻、忙碌的客户，CMH等公司推出了一些更短期的方案。
Rail
坐火车
Australia’s national rail is debuting an extended four-day transcontinental journey beginning in Darwin and ending in Adelaide. The 76-hour trip through the Australian Outback includes stops at Katherine and Alice Springs and a new excursion to Coober Pedy’s remote and cavernous opal mine, which will celebrate its centennial this year.
澳大利亚国家铁路公司刚推出加长版的四日跨大陆旅行，从达尔文到阿德莱德。这个76小时的旅程穿越澳大利亚内陆，在凯瑟琳和艾利斯斯普林斯等地停靠，还新增了一项短途旅行，前往库伯佩迪偏僻空旷的猫眼石矿山，今年该矿将迎来百年纪念日。
Fifty years after the introduction of the world’s first bullet train, Japan’s Shinkansen, new high-speed rail lines are opening all over the world. In 2015, high-speed train services are scheduled to connect Rome and Milan; Paris and Barcelona, Spain; Istanbul and Ankara, Turkey; Beijing and Hong Kong; Seoul and Busan, South Korea; and Mecca and Medina, Saudi Arabia.
在世界上第一个高速列车——日本的新干线——推出50年后，世界各地开通了很多新的高铁线路。2015年计划开通的高铁线路包括罗马至米兰；巴黎至西班牙巴塞罗那；土耳其的伊斯坦布尔至安卡拉；北京至香港；韩国的首尔至釜山；沙特阿拉伯的麦加至麦地那。
Scotland completes an almost 300-million-pound project to restore an old train line linking Edinburgh to the Scottish Borders this summer, making it easier than ever to get there. This is the first time in more than half a century that there will be trains running on this track, which was once one of the few ways of connecting the Scottish Borders area with the rest of the country.
今年夏天，苏格兰将完成一个投资近3亿英镑的项目，修复连接爱丁堡和苏格兰边境的一条老铁路线，前往苏格兰边境将比从前容易很多。半个多世纪以来，这条铁路线上将首次有火车行驶，它曾是仅有的几条把苏格兰边境与其他地区连接起来的线路之一。
Cruise
坐邮轮
As interest in Myanmar has grown, so have cruise routes on its central Irrawaddy River, linking the country’s largest city, Yangon, to its biggest tourist draws, including historic Bagan. Sanctuary Retreats just launched the new 20-suite Sanctuary Ananda in November. This October, Avalon Waterways will introduce the Avalon Myanmar, with 36 window-walled suites.
人们对缅甸的兴趣渐长，该国主要河流伊洛瓦底江上的巡游线路也引起了更多人的兴趣。这条河连接着该国最大的城市仰光和若干最具吸引力的旅游胜地，比如历史悠久的蒲甘。去年11月，Sanctuary Retreats邮轮公司刚启用了有20个套房的Sanctuary Ananda号。今年10月，Avalon Waterways邮轮公司将推出有36个套房的Avalon Myanmar号，这些套房临河的一面全是落地窗。