The Post and Courier of Charleston, South Carolina, with a staff of 80 and a daily circulation of 85,000, won the most prestigious of the Pulitzer Prizes for journalism awarded Monday for a series on the high number of deaths resulting from domestic abuse in the state.
南卡罗莱纳州查尔斯顿有80名员工、日发行量8.5万份的《信使邮报》(The Post and Courier)周一因为一系列有关该州大量家庭暴力致死事件的报道，赢得了普利策奖新闻类最高奖项。
The series, titled “Till Death Do Us Part,” was awarded the gold medal for public service that last year went to The Washington Post and The Guardian for their articles based on National Security Agency documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden, the former government contractor. It is the first time in five years that the prize has gone to such a small newspaper.
这个名为“直到死亡将我们分开”(Till Death Do Us Part)的系列报道，获得了公共服务奖的金牌。去年，《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)和《卫报》(The Guardian)凭借着基于前政府承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄密的国家安全局(National Security Agency)文件所进行的报道，共同摘得了这一奖项。这是该奖项五年来首次被如此小型的报纸获得。
The New York Times won the prize for investigative reporting for a series by Eric Lipton on aggressive efforts by lobbyists and lawyers to push state attorneys general to drop investigations, change policies, negotiate favorable settlements or pressure federal regulators to benefit their clients. It shared the prize with The Wall Street Journal, which won its first Pulitzer in recent years for a project that revealed previously to Americans confidential data “on the motivations and practices of their health care providers.”
《纽约时报》凭借埃里克·利普顿(Eric Lipton)的一个系列报道获得调查报道奖，报道讲述了游说者和律师如何为了帮客户争取利益，大肆要求各州检察长放弃调查、更改政策、协商最有利解决方案，或者向联邦监管机构施压。《华尔街日报》与《纽约时报》分享了这一奖项。这是《华尔街日报》最近几年首次获得普利策奖，其获奖报道向美国人披露了“他们的医疗服务提供者的动机和做法”。
The Times won two other prizes. Photographer Daniel Berehulak won the award for feature photography for a series of poignant portraits, shot across months, documenting Ebola's deadly spread in West Africa. And the paper's staff won for “courageous front-line reporting and vivid human stories on Ebola in Africa.”
时报还斩获了另外两个奖项。其中摄影师丹尼尔·贝雷胡拉克(Daniel Berehulak)凭借一系列令人痛心的人物图片获得了专题摄影奖。这些图片记录了埃博拉在西非的致命扩散，拍摄时间横跨数月。同时，时报员工也因“勇敢的前线报道，以及有关非洲埃博拉的生动人性故事”而获奖。
The Pulitzer Prize for fiction went to Anthony Doerr's best-selling historical novel, “All the Light We Cannot See,” which unfolds in Europe during World War II. In general nonfiction, the prize went to Elizabeth Kolbert's “The Sixth Extinction,” which explores how climate change is accelerating the mass extinction of species. The drama prize went to “Between Riverside and Crazy” by Stephen Adly Guirgis.
安东尼·多伊尔(Anthony Doerr)的畅销书《我们看不到的所有光明》(All the Light We Cannot See)揽下了普利策虚构类奖项。该书描述的是二战期间发生在欧洲的故事。非虚构类大奖被伊丽莎白·科尔伯特(Elizabeth Kolbert)的《第六次灭绝》(The Sixth Extinction)摘得。该书探究了气候变化正在加速物种大灭绝的情况。戏剧奖则花落斯蒂芬·阿德勒·奎尔吉斯(Stephen Adly Guirgis)的《在河畔与疯狂之间》(Between Riverside and Crazy)。
There were roughly 1,200 journalism entries, Mike Pride, the Pulitzer administrator, said in announcing the awards, which are now in their 99th year. There were also 1,400 books, 200 music compositions and 100 plays considered. Two categories, investigative reporting and feature writing, were opened to magazines this year, which prompted 60 additional entries; Jennifer Gonnerman was a finalist in the feature category for an article she wrote for The New Yorker.
普利策奖管理人迈克·普赖德(Mike Pride)在宣布奖项时称，大约有1200件新闻作品参加了今年的第99届普利策奖角逐。此外参评的还有1400部书籍、200部音乐作品和100部戏剧。今年，调查性报道和特稿写作这两个类别允许杂志申请，使参评作品增加了60件。珍妮弗·冈纳曼(Jennifer Gonnerman)最终凭借为《纽约客》(The New Yorker)撰写的一篇文章拨得头筹。
Here is the complete list of winners:
以下是完整获奖名单：
Public Service — The Post and Courier of Charleston, S.C.
公共服务——南卡罗来纳州查尔斯顿《信使邮报》
Breaking News Reporting — The staff of The Seattle Times
突发新闻报道——《西雅图时报》(The Seattle Times)员工
Investigative Reporting — Eric Lipton, The New York Times; The Wall Street Journal
调查性报道——埃里克·利普顿，《纽约时报》；《华尔街日报》
Explanatory Reporting — Zachary R. Mider of Bloomberg News
解释性报道——扎卡里·米德尔(Zachary R. Mider)，彭博新闻社(Bloomberg News)
Local Reporting — Rob Kuznia, Rebecca Kimitch and Frank Suraci of The Daily Breeze, Torrance, Calif.
地方报道——罗布·库兹尼亚(Rob Kuznia)，丽贝卡·基米奇(Rebecca Kimitch)、弗兰克·苏拉奇(Frank Suraci)，加利福尼亚州托兰斯《清风日报》(The Daily Breeze)
National Reporting — Carol D. Leonnig of The Washington Post
国内新闻报道——卡萝尔·D·利奥尼(Carol D. Leonnig)，《华盛顿邮报》
International Reporting — The staff of The New York Times
国际新闻报道——《纽约时报》员工
Feature Writing — Diana Marcum of The Los Angeles Times
专题写作——戴安娜·马坎(Diana Marcum)，《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)
Commentary — Lisa Falkenberg of The Houston Chronicle
评论——丽萨·法尔肯伯格(Lisa Falkenberg) , 《休斯敦纪事报》(The Houston Chronicle)
Criticism — Mary McNamara of The Los Angeles Times
批评——玛丽·麦克纳马拉(Mary McNamara), 《洛杉矶时报》
Editorial Writing — Kathleen Kingsbury of The Boston Globe
社论写作——凯瑟琳·金斯伯里(Kathleen Kingsbury), 《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)
Editorial Cartooning — Adam Zyglis of The Buffalo News
社论漫画——《布法罗新闻报》(The Buffalo News)的亚当·齐克里斯(Adam Zyglis)
Breaking News Photography — St. Louis Post-Dispatch photography staff
突发新闻摄影——《圣路易斯邮报》(St. Louis Post-Dispatch)摄影员工
Feature Photography — Daniel Berehulak of The New York Times
专题摄影——《纽约时报》的丹尼尔·贝雷胡拉克(Daniel Berehulak)
Fiction — “All the Light We Cannot See” by Anthony Doerr
虚构类——安东尼·多伊尔(Anthony Doerr)的《我们看不到的所有光明》(All the Light We Cannot See)
General Nonfiction — “The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History” by Elizabeth Kolbert
一般非虚构类——伊丽莎白·科尔伯特(Elizabeth Kolbert)的《第六次灭绝：非自然史》(The Sixth Extinction：An Unnatural History)
Drama — “Between Riverside and Crazy” by Stephen Adly Guirgis
戏剧——斯蒂芬·阿德勒·奎尔吉斯(Stephen Adly Guirgis)的《在河畔与疯狂之间》(Between Riverside and Crazy)
History — “Encounters at the Heart of the World: A History of the Mandan People” by Elizabeth A. Fenn
历史——伊丽莎白·A·芬恩(Elizabeth A. Fenn)的《在世界的中心相遇：曼丹人的历史》(Encounters at the Heart of the World: A History of the Mandan People)
Biography or Autobiography — “The Pope and Mussolini: The Secret History of Pius XI and the Rise of Fascism in Europe” by David I. Kertzer
传记或自传——戴维·I·克尔策(David I. Kertzer)的《教皇与墨索里尼：庇护十一世与法西斯主义崛起欧洲秘史》(The Pope and Mussolini: The Secret History of Pius XI and the Rise of Fascism in Europe)
Poetry — “Digest” by Gregory Pardlo
诗歌——格雷戈里·帕尔德罗(Gregory Pardlo)的《消化》(Digest)
Music — “Anthracite Fields” by Julia Wolfe
音乐——朱莉娅·沃尔夫(Julia Wolfe)的《无烟煤田》(Anthracite Fields)