“Game of Thrones,” the HBO fantasy epic, was named best drama for the first time in the highly-rated show’s history, capping off a dominant night for the premium cable channel.
HBO有线台收视率极高的奇幻史诗剧《权力的游戏》获得最艾美奖佳剧情类剧集，这是该剧首次获得这一奖项，令HBO台在颁奖之夜大出风头。
HBO’s “Veep,” the political satire about a venal, put-upon vice-president turned president, was named best comedy. It was the first time a show other than “Modern Family” had won the award since 2009. Julia Louis-Dreyfus, the show’s star, was named best actress in a comedy for the fourth year in a row. 
HBO台的政治讽刺剧《副总统》(Veep)讲述一个贪赃枉法、遭人利用的副总统当上总统的故事，今晚获得最佳喜剧类剧集奖。这是自2009年以来，该奖项第一次由《摩登家庭》(Modern Family)以外的剧集获得。《副总统》女主演茱莉亚·路易斯-德瑞弗斯(Julia Louis-Dreyfus)连续第四次获得喜剧类最佳女主角。
Ms. Louis-Dreyfus’s triumph was one of the only routine events in a year that saw several notable acting wins.
今年的表演奖项中有不少值得关注之处，路易斯-德瑞福斯的获奖是为数不多的例行公事之一。
Viola Davis won for ABC’s “How to Get Away With Murder,” becoming the first African-American actress to win a best drama actress Emmy.
维奥拉·戴维斯(Viola Davis)因在《逍遥法外》(How to Get Away With Murder)中的表现，成为第一位获得艾美奖剧情类最佳女主角的非裔美国女演员。
“You cannot win an Emmy for roles that are simply not there,” she said in her acceptance speech. “So here’s to all the writers, the awesome people that are Ben Sherwood, Paul Lee, Peter Nowalk, Shonda Rhimes, people who have redefined what it means to be beautiful, to be sexy, to be a leading woman, to be black.”
“你不能因为根本不存在的角色而获得艾美奖，”她在获奖致辞中说，“所以要感谢所有编剧，感谢了不起的本·舍伍德(Ben Sherwood)、保罗·李(Paul Lee)、彼得·诺沃克(Peter Nowalk)和珊达·瑞姆斯(honda Rhimes)，他们重新为美丽、性感、身为女领袖和身为黑人下了定义。”
Jon Hamm, the star of “Mad Men,” put an end to a long Emmy drought, winning best actor in a drama in perhaps the most eagerly anticipated award of the night. It was the first time a “Mad Men” performer had ever won an acting Emmy, and it was Mr. Hamm’s first win after 16 nominations. (Those 16 included guest stints on “30 Rock” and “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt.”)
《广告狂人》(Mad Men)主角乔·哈姆(Jon Hamm)终结了漫长的艾美奖荒，获得剧情类最佳男主角奖，这或许是当晚最为众望所归的奖项了。这是《广告狂人》的演员第一次获得艾美奖表演奖，也是哈姆经历了16次提名后第一次获奖（包括因在《我为喜剧狂》[30 Rock]和《我本坚强》[Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt]中的客串出演而获得的提名）。
Jeffrey Tambor, who stars as a patriarch undergoing gender transition in Amazon’s “Transparent,” won the Emmy for best actor in a comedy.
亚马逊《透明家庭》(Transparent)中的杰弗里·塔伯(Jeffrey Tambor)饰演一位变性的一家之主，他获得喜剧类最佳男主演奖。
Other acting winners included Allison Janney of “Mom” and Tony Hale of “Veep,” who won Emmys for best supporting acting in a comedy. Peter Dinklage of “Game of Thrones” and Uzo Aduba of “Orange Is the New Black” won the supporting acting awards on the drama side.
其他表演奖项还包括《副总统》中的托尼·海尔(Tony Hale)和《极品老妈》(Mom)中的艾莉森·珍妮(Allison Janney)和，他们分获喜剧类最佳男女配角奖。《权力的游戏》中的彼得·丁拉基(Peter Dinklage)与《女子监狱》(Orange Is the New Black)中的奥卓·阿杜巴(Uzo Aduba)分获剧情类最佳男女配角奖。
The Emmy ceremony took place at the Nokia Theater in Los Angeles. Fox broadcast the ceremony, which was hosted by Andy Samberg, the star of that network’s “Brooklyn Nine-Nine.” He opened the show with a musical number mocking the sheer volume of television shows and later gave out the log-in information for his HBO subscription. (The log-in worked, at least temporarily.)
艾美奖颁奖仪式在洛杉矶诺基亚剧场举行。Fox台全程转播，该台剧集《神烦警探》(Brooklyn Nine-Nine)主演安迪·萨姆伯格(Andy Samberg)主持了颁奖礼。他以一曲讽刺电视剧数量过多的音乐表演作为开场，之后又给出了他订阅的HBO台的登录信息（这个信息至少在片刻是有效的）。
Another big winner for HBO was the mini-series “Olive Kitteridge,” which dominated the new limited series category, which included both mini-series and anthology shows. “Olive Kitteridge” won the series award, both lead acting honors (Frances McDormand and Richard Jenkins), as well as awards for writing and directing.
HBO另一部颇有斩获的剧集是迷你剧《奥丽芙·基特里奇》(Olive Kitteridge)，它统治了新的“有限集数类剧集”奖项，这个新的奖项类别包括迷你剧和诗选剧。该剧不仅获得最佳剧集奖，其主演理查德·詹金斯(Richard Jenkins)和弗朗西斯·麦克多蒙德(Frances McDormand)亦分获最佳男女主演奖，此外它还获得最佳编剧和导演奖。
This year the variety category was split into separate ones for talk and sketch, with the awards going to a hot upstart and an outgoing favorite. Amy Schumer, one of the most lauded performers in any medium this year, won an Emmy for “Inside Amy Schumer,” her Comedy Central sketch show. “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart,” also on Comedy Central, won the award for best talk series. Mr. Stewart left the show in August.
今年综艺类的奖项分为脱口秀类和小品类，由一位当红新人和一位即将离开、受人喜爱的长者分获。今年最受各路媒体推崇的艾米·舒默(Amy Schumer)凭她在喜剧中心频道(Comedy Central)推出的小品秀《艾米·舒默的内心世界》(Inside Amy Schumer)获奖。同在该频道的《司徒囧每日秀》(The Daily Show With Jon Stewart)获得最佳脱口秀奖，斯图尔特先生于今年八月离开了这个节目。
“Thank you very much,” he said in his acceptance speech. “You’ll never have to see me again.”
“非常感谢，”他在致谢词中说。“你们再也不会见到我了。”