A few weeks ago, I sat in a movie theater and grinned. Anne Hathaway was in ‘‘The Intern,’’ perched on a hotel bed in a hotel robe, eating from a can of overpriced nuts, having tea and freaking out. What would happen if she divorced her sweet, selfless stay-at-home dad of a husband? Would she ever meet anybody else? And if she didn’t, she would have no one to be buried next to — she’d be single for all eternity. And weren’t the problems in her marriage a direct result of her being a successful businesswoman — she was there but never quite present? ‘‘The Intern’’ is a Nancy Meyers movie, and these sorts of cute career-woman meltdowns are the Eddie Van Halen guitar solos of her romantic comedies.
几周前，我坐在电影院里，脸上泛起笑容。《实习生》(The Intern)里的安妮·海瑟薇(Anne Hathaway)穿着客用浴袍坐在酒店床上，正喝着茶，吃一罐贵得离谱的坚果，显得六神无主。如果跟在家带孩子的无私甜心丈夫离婚会有什么后果？还能找到这么一个人吗？如果找不到，是不是得孤独终老了——就这么一个人度过余生。而她的婚姻问题，难道不正是作为一个成功女商人的下场吗——因为人在但心不在？《实习生》是南希·迈耶斯(Nancy Meyers)的电影，像这种可爱的职业女性崩溃戏，在她的浪漫喜剧中就如同埃迪·范·海伦(Eddie Van Halen guitar)的吉他华彩段落。
But what’s funny about that scene — what had me grinning — is the response of the person across the bed from Hathaway. After listening to her tearful rant, this person has had enough: Don’t you dare blame yourself or your career! Actually, the interruption begins, ‘‘I hate to be the feminist, of the two of us. … ’’ Hate to be because the person on the other side of the bed isn’t Judy Greer or Brie Larson. It’s not Meryl Streep or Susan Sarandon. It’s someone not far from the last person who comes to mind when you think ‘‘soul-baring bestie.’’ It’s Robert freaking De Niro, portrayer of psychos, savages and grouches no more.
然而这场戏最有意思的地方——让我发笑的地方——是在床另一头那个人的反应。听着她的飙泪吐槽，这人终于受不了了：你凭什么怪自己，怪你的事业！事实上，此人是用这么一句话打断她的：“我们两个人里，女性主义的居然是我，我可不想这样……”之所以不想，是因为在床另一头的那个人不是朱迪·格里尔(Judy Greer)或布莉·拉尔森(Brie Larson)。不是梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)或苏珊·萨兰登(Susan Sarandon)。你无论如何也想不到让这个人来担负“有话直说的闺蜜”角色。是罗伯特·德尼罗(Robert De Niro)啊妈妈，那个整天演疯子、狂徒和暴脾气的家伙。
On that bed with Hathaway, as her 70-year-old intern, he’s not Travis Bickle or the human wall of intolerance from those Focker movies. He’s Lena Dunham. The attentiveness and stern feminism coming out of his mouth are where the comedy is. And while it’s perfectly obvious what Meyers is doing to De Niro — girlfriending him — that doesn’t make the overhaul any less effective. The whole movie is about the subtle and obvious ways in which men have been overly sensitized and women made self-estranged through breadwinning. It’s both a plaint against the present and a pining for the past, but also an acceptance that we are where we are.
作为一个70高龄的实习生和海瑟薇在一张床上的他，不是Travis Bickle（《的士司机》），也不是《拜见岳父大人》里那堵油盐不进的人肉墙壁。他是莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)。他那一副倾听者的样子，嘴里吐出坚定的女性主义言论，正是本片的笑点所在。迈耶斯把他塑造成闺蜜的意图十分明显，但这并没有丝毫减弱这个角色的颠覆效果。整部影片就是要微妙而明显地表现男性的过度敏感，以及女人在成为家庭经济来源后的自我疏离。它既是对当下的哀叹，也是对往昔的怀恋，同时又有一种对现状的承认。
And where are we? On one hand: in another of Nancy Meyers’s bourgeois pornographies. On the other: in the midst of a great cultural identity migration. Gender roles are merging. Races are being shed. In the last six years or so, but especially in 2015, we’ve been made to see how trans and bi and poly-ambi-omni- we are. If Meyers is clued into this confusion, then you know it really has gone far, wide and middlebrow. We can see it in the instantly beloved hit ‘‘Transparent,’’ about a family whose patriarch becomes a trans woman whose kids call her Moppa, or in the time we’ve spent this year in televised proximity to Caitlyn Jenner, or in the browning of America’s white founding fathers in the Broadway musical ‘‘Hamilton,’’ or in the proliferating clones that Tatiana Maslany plays on ‘‘Orphan Black,’’ which mock the idea of a true or even original self, or in Amy Schumer's comedic feminism, which reconsiders gender confusion: Do uncouthness, detachment and promiscuity make her a slut, or a man?
那么我们的现状是什么？一方面：我们身在南希·迈耶斯的又一部布尔乔亚色情片中。另一方面：我们正经历一场文化身份认同大迁徙。性别角色正在合并。种族在蜕变。过去大概六年里，尤其是2015年，我们看到我们就是一群跨性别、多性-兼性-全性恋者。如今连迈耶斯都插手来理这一团乱麻，你就知道它已经扩散到每一个角落了。我们可以在迅速蹿红的《透明家庭》(Transparent)里看到这一点，该剧讲了一个家族的族长成了一个跨性女，大家都管她叫“妈爸”；或者是今年在电视上频频露面的凯特琳·詹纳(Caitlyn Jenner)；或者百老汇音乐剧《汉密尔顿》(Hamilton)中棕色皮肤的美国白人开国元勋；或者《黑色孤儿》(Orphan Black)中塔提阿娜·玛斯拉尼(Tatiana Maslany)饰演的众多克隆人，对真实甚或原始自我的概念进行了嘲弄；或艾米·舒默尔(Amy Schumer)的喜剧女性主义对性别困惑的重新思考：她的粗野、超然和放荡，让她成了一个荡妇，还是一个男人？
We can see it in the recently departed half-hour sketch comedy ‘‘Key & Peele,’’ which took race as a construct that could be reshuffled and remixed until it seemed to lose its meaning. The sitcom ‘‘Black-ish’’ likewise makes weekly farcical discourse out of how much black identity has warped — and how much it hasn’t — over 50 years and across three generations. ‘‘Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt’’ turns selfhood into a circus, introducing us to a lower-middle-class Native American teenager who eventually succeeds at becoming a rich white lady, and to other characters who try out new selves every 10 minutes, as if they’re auditioning for ‘‘Snapchat: The Musical.’’ Last month, Ryan Adams released a remake of Taylor Swift’s album ‘‘1989,’’ song for song, as a rock record that combines a male voice with a perspective that still sounds like a woman’s, like Lindsey Buckingham trying on Stevie Nicks’s clothes. Dancing on the fringes of mainstream pop are androgynous black men like Le1f, Stromae and Shamir.
从最近完结的《Key & Peele》中也可以看到，这部半小时小品喜剧集把种族当成了一种构造，可以打乱、重混，直到失去其本身的含义。同样，情景喜剧《喜新不厌旧》(Black-ish)也用每周一集的滑稽言语，述说跨越50多年、三个世代的黑人身份出现了哪些的扭曲——又有哪些始终未曾改变。《我本坚强》(Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt)将自我变成了一个马戏团，向我们呈现了一个最终如愿以偿成为富有白人女性的中低阶层美国土著少女，其他的人物也是每隔10分钟换一个新自我的类型，仿佛他们在给一个叫Snapchat的音乐剧试镜。上个月，瑞恩·亚当斯(Ryan Adams)发布了泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)专辑《1989》的翻唱版，把所有歌曲都改成了男声摇滚乐，但听起来依然像一个女人在唱歌，就像林赛·巴金汉姆(Lindsey Buckingham)穿上了史蒂薇·尼克斯(Stevie Nicks)的衣服。还有游走于主流流行乐边缘的半男半女黑人男性Le1f、Stromae和Shamir。
What started this flux? For more than a decade, we’ve lived with personal technologies — video games and social-media platforms — that have helped us create alternate or auxiliary personae. We’ve also spent a dozen years in the daily grip of makeover shows, in which a team of experts transforms your personal style, your home, your body, your spouse. There are TV competitions for the best fashion design, body painting, drag queen. Some forms of cosmetic alteration have become perfectly normal, and there are shows for that, too. Our reinventions feel gleeful and liberating — and tied to an essentially American optimism. After centuries of women living alongside men, and of the races living adjacent to one another, even if only notionally, our rigidly enforced gender and racial lines are finally breaking down. There’s a sense of fluidity and permissiveness and a smashing of binaries. We’re all becoming one another. Well, we are. And we’re not.
这股洪流从何而来？过去十多年里，我们的手边有了电子游戏和社交媒体平台这样的个人科技，可以帮助我们创造别样的或辅助的表象人格。此外，这些年我们每天都被那些“改头换面”类节目吸引着，这种节目会找一组专家来改造你的个人形象、你的家、你的身体、你的配偶。电视上还有最佳时装设计、身体绘画、易装皇后的竞赛。其中某些化妆易容的形式，现在已经见怪不怪——对此也有专门的电视节目去呈现。我们的重新发明有一种欢快和释放的感觉——这与某种本性中的美式乐观主义息息相关。千百年来女人靠着男人生活，各种族比邻而居，而现在——尽管只是名义上——我们坚守的性别和种族边界终于开始崩塌。我们能感到一种流动与包容性，二元论正在被瓦解。我们正成为彼此。是的，我们本就是彼此。但现在不是。
In June, the story of a woman named Rachel Dolezal began its viral spread through the news. She had recently been appointed president of the local chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. in Spokane, Wash. She had been married to a black man, had two black sons and was, by most accounts, a black woman. Her white biological parents begged to differ. The ensuing scandal resurrected questions about the nature of identity — what compelled Dolezal to darken her skin, perm her hair and pass in reverse? She might not have been biologically black, but she seemed well past feeling spiritually white.
6月，一个名叫蕾切尔·多尔扎尔(Rachel Dolezal)的女人频频见诸报端。她前不久被任命为有色人种协进会(NAACP)华盛顿州斯波坎市分会主席。她和一个黑人男性结了婚，有两个黑人儿子，她本人被大多数人认为是一名黑人女性。但她的两位白人生身父母提出了异议。随之而来的丑闻再次引发了有关身份本质的争论——是什么促使多尔扎尔加深自己的肤色，烫卷发，进行反向种族冒充呢？也许她生理上不是黑人，但精神上似乎早已不觉得自己白。
Some people called her ‘‘transracial.’’ Others found insult in her masquerade, particularly when the country’s attention was being drawn, day after day, to how dangerous it can be to have black skin. The identities of the black men and women killed by white police officers and civilians, under an assortment of violent circumstances, remain fixed.
有人称她为“跨种族”(transracial)。有人觉得她的伪装是种侮辱，尤其想到这个国家正日复一日地注意到，一身黑皮肤会带来怎样的危险。黑人男女被白人警察和平民在各种各样的暴力情境下打死，这样的身份认同始终牢不可破。
But there was something oddly compelling about Dolezal, too. She represented — dementedly but also earnestly — a longing to transcend our historical past and racialized present. This is a country founded on independence and yet comfortable with racial domination, a country that has forever been trying to legislate the lines between whiteness and nonwhiteness, between borrowing and genocidal theft. We’ve wanted to think we’re better than a history we can’t seem to stop repeating. Dolezal’s unwavering certainty that she was black was a measure of how seriously she believed in integration: It was as if she had arrived in a future that hadn’t yet caught up to her.
但在多尔扎尔的身上却又有一种奇怪的吸引力。她用一种疯狂而又恳切的方式，表达了超越我们的历史过往和种族化当下的渴望。这个国家在独立中诞生，却可以对种族霸权心安理得，这个国家一直费尽心机通过法律明确白与非白、借用与灭族盗取的区分。虽然总是无法避免重复历史，但我们曾认为自己没有看上去那么糟。多尔扎尔毅然决然地认定自己是个黑人，说明了她对种族融合有何等的信心：仿佛她已经抢先到达了某个未来世界。
It wasn’t so long ago that many Americans felt they were living in that future. Barack Obama’s election was the dynamite that broke open the country. It was a moment. It was the moment. Obama was biological proof of some kind of progress — the product of an interracial relationship, the kind that was outlawed in some states as recently as 1967 but was normalized. He seemed to absolve us of original sin and take us past this stupid, dangerous race stuff. What if suddenly anything was possible? What if we could be and do whatever and whoever we wanted? In that moment, the country was changing. We were changing.
这种置身未来的感觉，美国人不久前刚刚领略过。贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的当选将这个国家炸得四分五裂。那是一个瞬间。无与伦比的瞬间。奥巴马为某种进步提供了生理证据——他是一个跨种族关系的产物，而就在1967年，这样的产物在某些州还是非法的，只是被常态化了。他似乎赦免了我们的原罪，让我们可以把那些愚蠢而危险的种族问题抛诸脑后。要是突然之间一切皆有可能了呢？我们可以做任何事、成为任何人？那一刻，这个国家变了。我们变了。
Before Obama ran for president, when we tended to talk about racial identity, we did so as the defense of a settlement. Black was understood to be black, nontransferably. Negro intellectuals — Ralph Ellison and Albert Murray and James Baldwin, for starters — debated strategies for equality and tolerance. Some of them asserted that to be black was also to be American, even if America begged to differ. For most of those many decades, blackness stood in opposition to whiteness, which folded its arms and said that was black people’s problem. But Obama became everybody’s problem. He was black. He was white. He was hope. He was apocalypse. And he brought a lot of anxiety into weird relief. We had never really had a white president until we had a black one.
在奥巴马参选总统之前，每当试图展开种族身份的讨论，我们总是会为一种和解做辩护。我们懂得，黑人是黑人，是不可转换的。以拉尔夫·埃里森(Ralph Ellison)、阿尔伯特·穆瑞(Albert Murray)、詹姆斯·鲍德温(James Baldwin)为首的黑人知识分子曾探讨争取平等和宽容的战略。其中一些人提出黑人也是美国人的主张，尽管美利坚不以为然。在那几十年间，黑白基本上是保持对立的，白人一方双臂抱胸，说那是黑人的问题。但奥巴马成了所有人的问题。他是黑人。他是白人。他是希望。他是启示。他把许多的焦虑变成了奇怪的解脱。在有黑人总统之前，我们没有过真正的白人总统。
This radical hope, triggered by Obama, ushered in a period of bi- and transracial art — art that probed the possibility that we really had transcended race, but also ridiculed this hope with an acid humor. During Obama's past year in office, those works of art have taken on an even darker, more troubled tone as we keep looking around and seeing how little has really changed.
这种被奥巴马触发的根本希望，开创了一个双种族和跨种族艺术时期——其间的创作探究了我们从真正意义上超越种族的可能性，同时又用尖酸的幽默嘲弄了希望本身。在奥巴马过去一年的执政里，这类艺术作品开始有了一种更阴暗、不安的气息，因为我们环顾四周，发现其实没有什么真正的改变。
When the Dolezal story broke, I was partway through Nell Zink’s ‘‘Mislaid,’’ one of the four new satirical novels of race I read this year — Jess Row’s ‘‘Your Face in Mine,’’ Paul Beatty’s ‘‘The Sellout’’ and Mat Johnson’s ‘‘Loving Day’’ were the others. (I also read Fran Ross’s long-lost, recently reissued ‘‘Oreo.’’) But Zink’s was the only one that felt like an energy reading of Dolezal. Zink’s white heroine, Peggy, has run off with her daughter, Mireille, and decided to take the birth certificate of a dead black girl named Karen Brown and use it for Mireille, while changing her own name to Meg.
多尔扎尔事件刚曝光时，我正在看奈尔·津克(Nell Zink)的《遗失》(Mislaid)，那是我这一年看的四本新出版的种族讽刺小说之一——其他几本是耶斯·罗(Jess Row)的《我脸中的你的脸》(Your Face in Mine)、保罗·比蒂(Paul Beatty)的《出卖》(The Sellout)和马特·约翰逊(Mat Johnson)的《洛文日》(Loving Day)（我还看了弗兰·罗斯[Fran Ross]那本被遗忘多年、新近再版的《奥利奥》[Oreo]）。但只有津克的书给我感觉像一本多尔扎尔的能量读物。津克的白人女主人公佩姬带着女儿梅瑞尔离家出走，并拿了一个名叫凯伦·布朗的已故黑人女孩的出生证，作为梅瑞尔的身份证明，同时把自己的名字改成了梅格。
The next year, Karen was 4 years old going on 5 and still blond. Nonetheless registering her for first grade as a black 6-year-old was easy as pie.
第二年，凯伦刚四岁多、快五岁，而且是一头金发。但她还是轻而易举地以一个六岁黑人孩子的身份入学，开始上一年级。
Maybe you have to be from the South to get your head around blond black people. Virginia was settled before slavery began, and it was diverse. There were tawny black people with hazel eyes. Black people with auburn hair, skin like butter and eyes of deep blue-green. Blond, blue-eyed black people resembling a recent chairman of the N.A.A.C.P.
可能只有南方人才能理解金发黑人是怎么回事。弗吉尼亚的定居先于蓄奴，因此是很多元的。那里有棕褐色皮肤、浅褐色眼睛的黑人。赤褐色头发、肤色似黄油、眼睛是深蓝绿色的黑人。跟近年的某任NAACP主席相似的金发、蓝眼睛黑人。
Zink’s marveling description of what blackness looks like implies that it could welcome anyone. She draws a phenotypic loophole through which a sympathetic impostor or a straight-up cynic can pass.
津克对黑人长相的精彩描述暗示了这一族是欢迎所有人加入的。她设置了一个显型漏洞，让怀有好感的冒充者或干脆就是犬儒的人都能通过检测。
Each of these books wrestles with the fact of race while trying to present it as mutable, constructed, obscuring. In Beatty’s novel, a young black farmer in modern Los Angeles reluctantly takes on a vulgar former TV minstrel star as his slave. Blackness, according to this book, is as much a scam as it is a cultural identity; the undercurrents of tragedy keep lapping at the harbor of farce. Row’s novel is also a satire, but an eerily calm one in which a white man has ‘‘racial reassignment’’ surgery and becomes black. Row, who like Zink is white, takes guilt to an astounding allegorical extreme: The surest cure for white oppression is to eliminate whiteness. Whatever else is going on with Dolezal psychologically, you can read into her proud reassignment a sense of shame.
所有这些书都在克服种族的现实，同时也表明种族是构建而成的，易变而模糊。在比蒂的小说中，一个现代洛杉矶的年轻黑人农民，拒绝让一个粗俗的电视黑脸秀明星当他的奴隶。在这本书里，黑是一种文化身份，也是一个骗局；悲剧的潜流不断拍击着滑稽的港湾。耶斯·罗的小说也是讽刺作品，但却有着让人毛骨悚然的冷静，一个白人男性进行了“种族重指定”手术，成为黑人。和津克一样也是白人的罗，将负罪感推向一个寓言性的惊人极致：要消解白人压迫，最有效的办法是消灭所谓白人。不管多尔扎尔的内心是怎么想的，从她骄傲的种族重指定选择中，你能感觉到一丝羞耻。
But racial transgression works the other way too. ‘‘Hamilton’’ is a musical biography about the very white, very dead Alexander Hamilton, in which most of the cast is ‘‘other,’’ including Lin-Manuel Miranda, the show’s Nuyorican creator and star. Some of its audacity stems from the baldness of its political project: In changing the races of the founding fathers from white to brown, it pushes back against the currents of racial appropriation. It also infuses the traditional melodies of the American musical with so many genres of hip-hop and R & B, sometimes in a single number, that the songs themselves become something new. Political debates are staged as rap battles. Daveed Diggs’s Thomas Jefferson becomes the best good thing that never happened at the Source Awards. Artistically, Miranda has created a great night out. Racially, the show tags the entertainment industry status quo with color. It’s obviously musical theater. But damn if it’s not graffiti too.
然而种族忤逆也是可以反过来的。传记音乐剧《汉密尔顿》主人公是一个死了几百年、白得不能再白的白人，但剧中演员却大多是“其他”种族，包括本剧主创、主演林-马努艾尔·米兰达(Lin-Manuel Miranda)，一个波多黎各裔美国人。如此大胆的安排，一定程度上是因为它并不打算掩盖自己的政治计划：通过将国父的肤色从白变成棕，来抵制当前的种族挪用潮流。它还将传统的美国音乐剧旋律与许许多多的嘻哈乐和节奏布鲁斯流派混作一团，有时在一首歌里就能尽数呈现，使歌曲本身成了某种新的东西。政客的辩论被设计成说唱对战。戴维伊德·迪格斯(Daveed Diggs)饰演的托马斯·杰弗逊，是Source杂志大奖（嘻哈乐重要奖项。——译注）上见不到的杰作。从艺术上，米兰达创造了一个美妙夜晚。种族上，这部戏为娱乐工业的现状增添了一点颜色。它显然是音乐剧。但说它是涂鸦亦无不妥。
Naturally, this new era has also agitated a segment of the populace that is determined to scrub the walls. That, presumably, is where Donald Trump comes in: as the presidential candidate for anyone freaked out by the idea of a show like ‘‘Hamilton.’’ Trump is the pathogenic version of Obama, filling his supporters with hope based on a promise to rid the country of change. This incarnation of Trump appeared not long after Obama’s election, determined to disprove the new president’s American citizenship. On Trump’s behalf, an entire wing of conservatism — the so-called birthers — devoted itself to the removal of a mask that Obama was never wearing. Part of Trump’s appeal is his illusion of authenticity. His blustering candor has currency in a landscape of android candidates. Yet his magnetism resides in paranoia, the fear that since Obama’s election ushered in this shifting, unstable climate of identity, the country has been falling apart.
这个新时代，自然也惹怒了一部分一心想抹杀它的民众。这大概就是唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的切入点：作为一个总统候选人，他代表的是那些被《汉密尔顿》这样的事物吓着的人。特朗普是病原版的奥巴马，他的承诺是让这个国家免遭任何改变，凭借这一点，他给他的支持者带去了希望。特朗普是在奥巴马当选后不久道成肉身的，他一心要证明这位新任总统没有美国国籍。在特朗普的带领下，整个保守主义阵营——所谓的出生地质疑者——一心要摘下一个奥巴马从来没戴过的面具。一定程度上，特朗普的吸引力在于他在幻想一种不存在的真。在一个个机器般的候选人中间，他那大呼小叫的率真是有市场的。然而他的魅力源自妄想狂，源自奥巴马的当选所制造的恐慌，人们担心在这场动荡不定的身份变革中，国家会轰然倒塌。
It’s a paranoia that pop culture captured first: In the last six years, Hollywood has provided a glut of disaster spectacles, armageddon scenarios and White House sackings. But the USA Network’s ‘‘Mr. Robot,’’ which ended its first season last month, might have gotten at that sense of social collapse best. Created by Sam Esmail, an Egyptian-American, the show pits technology against the economy and its unstable protagonist against himself. The plot concerns a group of anarchist hackers conspiring to topple a corporation; with it go the stability of world markets and everybody’s financial debt. But it’s also a mystery about the identity of its protagonist, a mentally ill, morphine-addicted hacker named Elliot. We think he’s obeying the commands of the show’s title character, the head of a hacktivist outfit, but it turns out that he has been commanding himself all along. Significant parts of this world are figments of his delusion. Elliot is at least two people. Some of the dark excitement of this show is that he might be even more.
流行文化首先捕捉到了这种妄想：过去六年里，好莱坞呈上了无数灾难奇观、末世悲景和白宫浩劫。但在对社会崩塌的表现上，上月刚结束第一季的USA电视网(USA Network)剧集《黑客军团》(Mr. Robot)也许是最有力的。这部由埃及裔美国人萨姆·艾斯美尔(Sam Esmail)创制的剧集让科技和经济站在了对立面，也让反复无常的主人公成为自己的敌人。剧中一个无政府主义黑客团体密谋颠覆一个大公司；全球市场因此陷入动荡，所有人的债务被一笔勾销。然而该剧主人公——患有精神病症、吗啡成瘾的黑客埃利奥特——也是一个身份成疑的人。我们以为他是在执行剧名所示人物“Mr. Robot”（机器人先生）的命令，那是一个黑客活动团体的领导人，然而后来发现，埃利奥特一直在自行其是。这个世界有相当一部分是他凭空臆想出来的。埃利奥特至少是两个人。而这部剧的其中一个黑暗看点在于，可能还不止两个。
‘‘Mr. Robot’’ is worst-of-times TV, reflecting a mood of menacing instability. Over the course of its 10 episodes, almost no one was who they appeared to be. A straight married man seemed to think nothing of his sleeping with a gay work underling (and neither did his wife). A character who seemed, to my eyes at least, to be a transgender woman at some point appeared as a conventional man. Was that a coming out? A going in? Both? This isn’t a show I watched for what was going to happen but for who people were going to turn into, or who they wanted to turn out to be. It’s a show about the way your online profile can diverge from your real-life identity, yes, but also the way you can choose a self or a self can choose you.
《黑客军团》是讲述“最糟糕的时代”的电视剧，反映了一种令人恐慌的动荡气氛。十集的剧情铺陈下来，几乎所有人都是表里不一的。一个已婚异性恋男性，对自己跟男同下属上床的事似乎完全不以为意（他妻子也是这样）。一个看起来——至少在我看来——是跨性别女性的角色，突然以寻常男性形象出现。这算是出柜？入柜？两者皆有？这部剧看的不是将发生什么事，而是人将会变成什么，或想变成什么。它的确点明了我们的网上形象跟真实生活中的身份有怎样的差异，但同时，它还关乎我们的自我选择，或被自我选择。
There’s also the choice to ignore the matter of identity — until, of course, it starts to aggravate your complacency. Not far into the flap over Dolezal, another alarming story took over the news, a story that challenged the myths white America tells itself about progress. This story was about Atticus Finch, the protagonist of Harper Lee’s 1960 classic, ‘‘To Kill a Mockingbird.’’ Atticus single-handedly fought racism in the fictitious Alabama town of Maycomb, and he became a window through which we could see a version of tolerance, someone holy enough to put on stained glass or money. But in ‘‘Go Set a Watchman,’’ the sequel to ‘‘To Kill a Mockingbird,’’ published in July, Atticus was given a scandalous status update: He had been aged into a racist.
无视身份问题也是一个选择——当然，前提是不要到了加剧你的自满的程度。多尔扎尔的事还没平息，另一则警世故事又闹了起来，这一次，故事挑战得是美国白人自说自话的那一套进步迷思。故事主人公是哈珀·李(Harper Lee)的1960年经典小说《杀死一只反舌鸟》(To Kill a Mockingbird)人物阿提克斯·芬奇(Atticus Finch)。在虚构的阿拉巴马州梅康镇，阿提克斯单枪匹马对抗种族主义，他成了一面窗户，让我们看到了宽容的一种表现形式，一个足够做成教堂彩色玻璃或印到钞票上的圣人。但在七月出版的续篇《设立守望者》(Go Set a Watchman)中，阿提克斯的事迹出现了一次不堪入目的转折：随着年龄增大，他成了一个种族主义者。
I can’t recall the last time the attitudes of a single fictional character led the national news. But there was bigoted old Atticus, on the front pages, being discussed on cable. One of the most iconic white antiracists had grown fond of white supremacy. It raised an uncomfortable question: If you had identified with the original Atticus Finch, did his Archie Bunkerization make a racist out of you too? The public hand-wringing was a perverse refreshment because, even if only for a few days, it left white people dwelling on race as intensely as nonwhite people. This new Atticus was a betrayal of white liberal idealism, feeding a suspicion that that idealism was less than absolute — that it could suddenly, randomly turn against the people it purported to help.
在我印象里，还没有哪个小说人物的态度能成为全国性新闻。偏执的老阿提克斯上了报纸头条，有线电视节目也在谈论他。家喻户晓的白人反种族主义者，变成了白人至上主义的信徒。这就带来一个令人如坐针毡的问题：如果说原来的阿提克斯·芬奇曾经引起你的共鸣，那这个阿契·邦克尔(Archie Bunker)化的阿提克斯，会不会又唤醒了你心里的一个种族主义自我呢？这场公众焦虑是对思绪的一次反常的重启，因为现在连白人也要像非白人一样，满脑子想着种族问题了——哪怕只是持续那么几天。这个新阿提克斯是白人自由理想主义的叛徒，给那些认为理想主义并非铁板一块的人壮了声势——在他们看来，理想主义会突然地、随机地把矛头转向那些它号称要帮助的人。
It was almost as if Lee knew, in 1957, about the mood of the country in 2015 — about the way a series of dead black men and women would further cleave apart the country; about the massacre of nine black churchgoers by a young white supremacist in a South Carolina church, and the ensuing debate over the Confederate flag; about the fear of inevitable, inexorable racial, gender and sexual evolution; about the perceived threats to straight-white-male primacy by Latino immigrants, proliferating Spanish, same-sex marriage, female bosses and a black president.
哈珀·李仿佛在1957年就已经知道，这个国家到了2015年会处在怎样的气氛中——她知道一系列黑人男女的死亡事件会进一步加剧种族对立；知道一个年轻的白人至上主义者在一座南卡罗莱拉州教堂里屠杀了九名黑人教徒，随后还引发一场关于邦联旗的争论；知道不可避免、不可阻挡的种族、性别和性革命；知道拉美移民、日渐普及的西班牙语、同性婚姻、女性上司以及一个黑人总统给异性恋白人男性权力构成的明显威胁。
The yearning to transcend race keeps coming up against the bedrock cultural matter of separateness. But the tectonic plates of the culture keep pushing against one another with greater, earthquaking force. The best show in our era about that quake — about the instability of identity and the choosing of a self — has been ‘‘Key & Peele.’’ For five seasons, in scores of sketches, two biracial men, Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan Peele, became different women and different men of different ethnicities, personalities and body types. They were two of the best actors on television, hailing from somewhere between the lawlessness of improv comedy and the high-impact emotionalism of Anna Deavere Smith’s one-woman, zillion-character plays. ‘‘Key & Peele’’ granted nearly every caricature a soul.
超越种族的渴望，与族类有别的文化核心不断发生冲突。然而，文化的构造板块正在以越来越强烈的、地动山摇的力量相互碰撞着。这场地震，这种身份的不稳定性和对自我的选择，在《Key & Peele》中有着最完美的呈现。纪甘-迈克尔·吉(Keegan-Michael Key)和乔丹·皮尔(Jordan Peele)，两个有双重种族身份的男人，在五季的小品剧集中，变成了各种不同族裔、人格和体型的女人和男人。他们是当今最杰出的电视演员，风格介于毫无章法的即席喜剧和炽烈的安妮·迪佛·史密斯(Anna Deavere Smith)式感情主义一人多角剧之间。《Key & Peele》给几乎所有夸张形象注入了一个灵魂。
The show started as a commentary on the hilarious absurdity of race, but it never fully escaped the pernicious reality of racism. The longer it ran, the more melancholy it became, the more it seethed. In the final episode, its anger caught up with its fancifulness and cheek, exploding in an old-timey musical number called ‘‘Negrotown,’’ which opens with a black man (Key) being arrested by a white cop one night while walking down a dark alleyway. He says he’s innocent of any wrongdoing and asks why he’s being arrested, intensifying the cop’s anger. Entering the police cruiser, he hits his head on the car door. Suddenly, a homeless man (Peele) arrives on the scene and offers to take the black guy off the cop’s hands. The cop gratefully acquiesces.
该剧是以评论种族问题中令人捧腹的荒诞性起家，但也从未回避种族主义的严峻现实。随着时间推移，剧集的气氛变得越来越阴郁，也越来越愤怒。在大结局中，这种愤怒混合了它的怪想和俚俗，在一个老式歌舞片片段中全面爆发，它的开头是一个黑人男子（由吉饰演）在黑暗的巷子里走着，结果被一个白人警察逮捕。他说他没有任何不法行为，问警察为什么逮捕他，这煽起了警察的火气。在进入警车时，警察把他的头往车门上撞了一下。突然，一个乞丐（由皮尔饰演）出现，提出把这个黑人从警察手里带走。警察万分感激地同意了。
Taking the disoriented man by the hand, the homeless guy leads him through an alley door. They find themselves on the threshold of a sunny neighborhood. The homeless guy is now dressed in a three-piece suit the color of pink grapefruit meat, and he begins to sing in a camped-up, zero-calorie Paul Robeson baritone about this new place, ‘‘where there ain’t no pain, ain’t no sorrow.’’ Black people in bright clothes are dancing in the streets, singing in giddy verse about the special virtues of their town: You can get a cab to pick you up, have a loan application approved, even wear a hoodie without getting shot. Plus: ‘‘There’s no stupid-ass white folks touching your hair or stealing your culture, claiming it’s theirs.’’
乞丐拉着这个晕乎乎的人走进巷子里的一扇门。转眼间，他们来到了一个阳光明媚的社区。乞丐此刻穿上了一身葡萄柚色三件套正装，开始用一种做作的、零卡路里的保罗·罗比逊(Paul Robeson)式男中音歌唱这片新天地，“这儿没痛苦，没悲伤。”黑人们身着色彩艳丽的衣服在街上起舞，用喜悦的辞句赞美他们的家园：在这里你伸手就可以打到车，申请贷款能得到批准，穿上卫衣都不会中枪。还有：“不会有傻头傻脑的白人来摸你的头发，把你的文化偷走，说成是他们的。”
But it’s clear from the start that the ‘‘neighborhood’’ is a studio backlot, and the dancers are costumed in the colors of Skittles, and their dancing involves a lot of grinning and spinning and stretching out their arms — shuffling. Black freedom looks like a white 1940s Hollywood director’s idea of it. At the end of the number, the dancers stand frozen with their arms raised in a black-power salute, as if waiting for someone to yell ‘‘cut.’’ No one does.
然而，从一开始就可以看出，这片“邻里”只是一个摄影棚置景，舞者的衣服是彩虹糖色的，他们在舞蹈中满脸堆笑，不断地旋转，伸展双臂——跳的是曳步舞。这片黑人世外桃源，似乎是一个1940年代好莱坞白人导演设想出来的。在歌曲的最后，高举双臂摆出“黑人力量”礼的舞者们静止不动，仿佛在等人喊“cut”。但一直没人喊。
The dream melts away, and we’re back with the guy being arrested, passed out on the ground. The cop starts shoving him into the cruiser. ‘‘I thought I was going to Negrotown,’’ he says.
梦想渐渐淡去，我们重新回到那人被逮捕的场景，他刚刚晕倒在地上。警察开始把他往车里塞。“我以为我要去黑鬼镇呢，”他说。
‘‘Oh, you are,’’ the cop replies, as the piano riff from the song starts to play and the car drives off.
“对啊，就是去那儿，”警察答道，在钢琴弹奏的副歌旋律中，警车开动起来。
The show left us with a dream of Edenic self-containment as the key to black contentment — a stunning contradiction of all its previous sketches. It was a rebuke to both racial integration and ghettoization. It split me open. I cried with laughter at the joke of this obviously fake place as a kind of heaven. I cried with sadness, because if you’re in Negrotown, you’re also in a special ring of hell.
这一段歌舞，给我们留下的是一场梦，梦中那伊甸园式的自我桎梏，成了通往黑人幸福的关键——这和该剧集此前的所有小品都是背道而驰的。它在同时对种族融合与隔离发起谴责。我被猛地撕开了。面对这个明明是假造的、天堂般的地方上演着的笑话，我笑着哭了起来。我的哭泣是悲切的，因为如果你在黑鬼镇，你同时也就落入了地狱中的某个特殊地带。
The bitterness of the sketch made me wonder if being black in America is the one identity that won’t ever mutate. I’m someone who believes himself to have complete individual autonomy, someone who feels free. But I also know some of that autonomy is limited, illusory, conditional. I live knowing that whatever my blackness means to me can be at odds with what it means to certain white observers, at any moment. So I live with two identities: mine and others’ perceptions of it. So much of blackness evolving has been limited to whiteness allowing it to evolve, without white people accepting that they are in the position of granting permission. Allowing. If that symbiotic dynamic is going to change, white people will need to become more conscious that they, too, can be perceived.
这则小品的苦涩让我想到，“美国黑人”会不会是唯一一个永远不会变异的身份。我是一个认为自己有完全的个体自主权的人，一个感到自由的人。但我也知道，自主权中存在有限的、虚幻的、有条件的地方。从小到大我一直知道，不管我如何看待我的肤色，总会跟某些白人旁观者是存在分歧的，这样的事随时会发生。因此我有一种双重身份：我的身份，以及他人理解的身份。黑人的演化在相当程度上是被框限在白人容许的范围内的，而白人同时又不承认他们掌握着这种发放许可的权力。容许。要想改变这种共生关系，白人需要更清楚地认识到，他们的身份也存在他人理解的版本。
It could be that living with recycled conflict is part of the national DNA. Yet it’s also in our natures to keep trying to change, to discover ourselves. In ‘‘Far From the Tree,’’ Andrew Solomon’s landmark 2012 book about parenting and how children differentiate themselves, he makes a distinction between vertical and horizontal identity. The former is defined by traits you share with your parents, through genes and norms; the latter is defined by traits and values you don’t share with them, sometimes because of genetic mutation, sometimes through the choice of a different social world. The emotional tension in the book’s scores of stories arises from the absence of love for or empathy toward someone with a pronounced or extreme horizontal identity — homosexuality or autism or severe disability. Solomon is writing about the struggle to overcome intolerance and estrangement, and to better understand disgust; about our comfort with fixed, established identity and our distress over its unfixed or unstable counterpart.
也许这个国家就是擅长忍受这种反复重现的冲突。与此同时，我们又有一种不断求变、求自我发现的天性。2012年出版的安德鲁·索罗门(Andrew Solomon)代表作《那些与众不同的孩子》(Far From the Tree)讲的是为人父母之道，以及孩子之间的差别，在书中，索罗门将身份分成了垂直与水平两种。决定前者的是通过基因和规范与父母共享的性格特征；而后者是由你跟父母不一样的性格特征和价值观决定的，有时候是因为基因变异，有时候是因为选择了另一个社交世界。书中许多故事的情感张力源于某种显著或极端的水平身份得不到爱或同情——比如同性恋、自闭症或严重的残疾。索罗门写的是在偏狭与疏离中的挣扎；是我们对固定的、世俗认可的身份的贪恋，以及不固定、不稳定的身份给我们带来的苦恼。
His insights about families apply to us as a country. We’re a vertical nation moving horizontally. We’re daring to erase the segregating boundaries, to obliterate oppressive institutions, to get over ourselves. Nancy Meyers knows it. Sam Esmail knows it. So, in his way, does Donald Trump. The transition should make us stronger — if it doesn’t kill us first.
他对家庭的洞察可以推演至作为一个国家的我们。我们是一个在水平方向移动的垂直国家。我们敢于消除隔离的界线，废除压迫性的制度，克服自以为是。南希·迈耶斯清楚这一点。萨姆·艾斯美尔也知道。连唐纳德·特朗普也以他自己的方式表明他知道。这场转变应该会让我们更强大——前提是不被它杀死。