Every year since 1952, the Book Review has convened an independent panel of judges to select the New York Times Best Illustrated Children’s Books. Judged purely on artistic merit, it’s the only annual award of its kind. 
自1952年以来，《纽约时报》书评版每年都会组建一个独立评审小组，挑选出时报最佳儿童绘本。它以艺术价值为唯一标准，也是同类作品的唯一年度奖。
The 2015 New York Times Best Illustrated Children’s Books are, in alphabetical order:
2015年《纽约时报》最佳儿童绘本书单如下，按字母顺序排列：
Big Bear Little Chair
《大熊小椅子》(Big Bear Little Chair)
Written and illustrated by Lizi Boyd
故事、绘图：利兹·博伊德(Lizi Boyd)
This ingenious take on the “opposites” book shows the youngest children that big, little and tiny are all in how you look at things. Using just black, white and a velvety gray, with a bit of red, Boyd’s delightful cut paper compositions juxtapose the large and the small in unexpected ways: a “big meadow” is big because it’s full of small flowers; a “big seal” towers over a “tiny castle” that’s made of sand.
该书巧妙地通过“对立”，向低龄儿童展示了“大、小和微小”的区别在于看待事物的方式。博伊德仅仅使用黑、白、柔和的灰，以及一点点红色，搭配赏心悦目的剪纸图案，以出人意料的方式并列呈现了大小事物：一片“大草地”很大，因为草地上满是小花朵；在用沙子建造的“微小城堡”前，高耸着一只“大海豹”。
32 pp. Chronicle Books. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 3 to 5)
共32页。编年史出版社(Chronicle Books)。16.99美元。（绘本，适合3至5岁）
A Fine Dessert: Four Centuries, Four Families, One Delicious Treat
《精致甜品：四个世纪，四个家庭，一种美味》(A Fine Dessert: Four Centuries, Four Families, One Delicious Treat)
By Emily Jenkins. Illustrated by Sophie Blackall.
故事：艾米莉·詹金斯(Emily Jenkins)。绘图：苏菲·布莱科尔(Sophie Blackall)。
Four vignettes, set in England, South Carolina, Boston and San Diego, show how the creamy dessert called blackberry fool has been made and enjoyed over the centuries. Our reviewer, John Lithgow, called out the book’s “abundant charms.” Blackall’s warm, finely detailed illustrations — done in ink, watercolor and blackberry juice — capture the sweep of history and the constancy of family love.
书中描绘了四个小片段，分别发生在英格兰、南卡罗来纳州、波士顿和圣迭戈，这些片段讲述了数百年来，人们制作和品尝一种名为“黑莓傻瓜”(blackberry fool)的奶油甜点的历史。评审员约翰·利思戈(John Lithgow)称该书“魅力十足”。布莱科尔用墨水、水彩和黑莓汁绘制了温暖而精细的插画，展现了历史的跨越和亲情的延绵。
32 pp. Schwartz & Wade Books. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)
共32页。施瓦茨与韦德出版社(Schwartz & Wade Books)。17.99美元。（绘本，适合4至8岁）
Funny Bones: Posada and His Day of the Dead Calaveras
《滑稽的骨头：波萨达和他的亡灵节骷髅》(Funny Bones: Posada and His Day of the Dead Calaveras)
By Duncan Tonatiuh
故事：邓肯·托纳蒂乌(Duncan Tonatiuh)
This biography of the Mexican artist, who popularized calaveras both as a form of political protest and a popular entertainment, integrates Posada’s own prints with Tonatiuh’s winsome, cleverly layered compositions. “Befitting its subject, the book communicates through its visual aesthetic,” Maria Russo wrote. “Tonatiuh’s eye-catching earth-toned digital collages, with occasional blasts of dusky purple or blue, feature people who look like the swoopy, postmodern descendants of Mexican folk figures.”
本书是墨西哥艺术家波萨达的传记。波萨达普及了骷髅艺术(calaveras)，使其既成为政治抗议的一种形式，又成为一种大众娱乐的方式。书中将波萨达的作品和托纳蒂乌可爱、巧妙的分层图案融合在一起。“这本书通过视觉美感来表达，与它的主题非常契合，”玛丽亚·罗素(Maria Russo)写道。“托纳蒂乌用引人注目的土地色调的数字拼贴，搭配少量暗紫色或蓝色，让人物看起来像是墨西哥传说人物的后现代后裔，有平滑的线条。”
40 pp. Abrams. $18.95. (Picture book; ages 6 to 10)
共40页，艾布拉姆斯出版社(Abrams)。18.95美元。（绘本，适合6至10岁）
Leo: A Ghost Story
《雷欧：幽灵的故事》(Leo: A Ghost Story)
By Mac Barnett. Illustrated by Christian Robinson.
故事：麦克·巴内特(Mac Barnett)。绘图：克里斯蒂安·罗宾逊(Christian Robinson)
Leo, a little ghost drawn touchingly by Robinson as an improbably sweet and hopeful-looking crayoned outline, feels unwanted in the house he is haunting. So he moves to the city, where he befriends a girl who thinks he’s strictly imaginary. After Leo thwarts a robbery, his real — that is, ghostly — status is affirmed. Our reviewer, Marjorie Ingall, praised Robinson’s “exciting” art. “I love the palette of ‘Leo,’” she wrote. “Black, white, gray and various shades of moody blue, in a mix of acrylic paint and chunky ­construction-paper collage.”
雷欧是一个小幽灵。罗宾逊用动人的笔触，将他绘制成一个极为可爱、看起来充满希望的蜡笔轮廓。雷欧觉得，在他游荡的房子里，大家都不喜欢他。于是他搬到城市，和一个女孩交上朋友，女孩以为雷欧只是自己的想象。雷欧阻挠了一次抢劫，他作为幽灵的真实性得到了确定。评审员玛乔丽·因加尔(Marjorie Ingall)称赞，罗宾逊的绘画很“精彩”。她写道：“我喜欢《雷欧》的配色，白、灰和各种色调的蓝黑色，以及丙烯酸颜料和厚实纸张拼贴的组合。”
52 pp. Chronicle Books. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 3 to 5)
共52页。编年史出版社。16.99美元。（绘本，适合3至5岁）
Madame Eiffel: The Love Story of the Eiffel Tower
《埃菲尔夫人：埃菲尔铁塔的爱情故事》(Madame Eiffel: The Love Story of the Eiffel Tower)
By Alice Brière-Haquet. Illustrated by Csil.
故事：爱丽丝·布希耶-阿各特(Alice Brière-Haquet)。绘图：塞希尔(Csil)
In this imaginative telling of the story behind the Eiffel Tower, the engineer Gustave Eiffel is inspired by his love for his ailing wife, Cathy. With a strict palette of black and white with dabs of light rosy red, Csil’s intricate, lacy pen-and-ink illustrations convey Eiffel’s keen attention to detail, along with the allure of Paris and the high-flying ambition of his tower. The effect is romantic and utterly charming, inviting you to look and look at the pages.
本书讲述了作者想象的艾菲尔铁塔背后的故事：工程师居斯塔夫·埃菲尔(Gustave Eiffel)对病妻凯西(Cathy)的爱激发了他的灵感。塞希尔用严格的黑白配色，加上少许浅玫瑰红，勾画出错综复杂的繁复笔墨插图，展示了埃菲尔对细节的敏锐，再加上巴黎的魅力以及铁塔承载的雄心壮志，整体效果浪漫迷人，引人入胜。
24 pp. Little Gestalten. $19.95. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)
共24页，Little Gestalten出版社。19.95美元（绘本，适合4至8岁）
The Only Child
《独生小孩》(The Only Child)
Written and illustrated by Guojing
故事、绘图：郭景
A small child is left alone all day to fend for herself. She dozes off on a city bus and wakes in an unknown forest, a silvery fantasyland up in the clouds where she bonds with a flying deer, enormous whales and a seal pup. Our reviewer, Samantha Hunt, was enchanted by this “dreamy, wordless debut,” lovingly illustrated with smoky, mystical-looking pencil drawings. “The dark current flowing underneath such lush imagery,” Hunt wrote, “is the loneliness of childhood under China’s one-child policy.”
一个小姑娘一整天都要自己照顾自己。她在城市里的公交车上睡着了，醒来时来到了一片未知的森林里。那是云朵上面的一个银色梦境。在那里，她和会飞的鹿、大鲸鱼和一只小海豹建立起了感情。这本“梦幻题材的无字处女作”让评审员萨曼莎·亨特(Samantha Hunt)沉醉在其中。书中的插图都是烟雾朦胧、看上去有些神秘的铅笔画。“美丽的图画背后涌动的暗流，”亨特说，“是中国一胎政策下童年的孤独。”
98 pp. Schwartz & Wade. $19.99. (Picture book; ages 5 to 9)
共98页。施瓦茨与韦德出版社。19.99美元。（绘本，适合5至9岁）
The Skunk
《臭鼬》(The Skunk)
By Mac Barnett. Illustrated by Patrick McDonnell.
故事：马克·巴尼特(Mac Barnett)绘图：帕特里克·麦当奈尔(Patrick McDonnell)
32 pp. Roaring Brook Press. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)
共32页，咆哮溪出版社(Roaring Brook Press)。17.99美元。（绘本，适合4至8岁）
Sidewalk Flowers
《路边的鲜花》(Sidewalk Flowers)
By JonArno Lawson. Illustrated by Sydney Smith.
故事：琼阿诺·劳森(JonArno Lawson) 绘图：西德尼·史密斯(Sydney Smith)
“Something to treasure,” our reviewer, Carmela Ciuraru, called this dazzlingwordless book. As a girl and her father walk home through city streets, she notices flowers sprouting in unexpected places. She picks them, accumulating a bouquet that she distributes to a dog, a dead bird, a homeless man and finally, back home, her sleeping toddler sibling. In Smith’s elegant and moving drawings, as Ciuraru wrote, “the only pop of color on the first page is the girl’s bright red hoodie, redolent of Peter’s snowsuit in Ezra Jack Keats’s ‘The Snowy Day.’ More color suffuses these pages as the pair gets closer to home.”
评审员卡尔梅拉·丘拉鲁(Carmela Ciuraru)对这本令人惊叹的绘本的评价是“值得珍藏”。一个小女孩和父亲穿过城市的街道步行回家。她发现，一些意想不到的地方长出了鲜花。她把献花采来做成花束，分给了一条狗、一只死鸟、一个流浪汉和家里已经睡着了的弟弟。正如丘拉鲁所写的那样，史密斯的插图简洁感人，“第一页上唯一的色彩是小女孩鲜红的连帽衫，让人想起了埃兹拉·杰克·济慈(Ezra Jack Keats)《雪天》(The Snowy Day)里彼得穿的风雪服。随着两人离家越来越近，书页上的颜色越来越丰富。”
26 pp. Groundwood Books/House of Anansi Press. $16.95. (Picture book; ages 3 to 8)
共26页。格朗伍德/阿南西出版公司(Groundwood Books/House of Anansi Press)。16.95美元。（绘本，适合3至8岁）
The Tiger Who Would Be King
《想当国王的老虎》(The Tiger Who Would Be King)
By James Thurber. Illustrated by JooHee Yoon.
故事：詹姆斯·瑟伯(James Thurber) 绘图：尹珠熙（JooHee Yoon，音）
Thurber’s 1956 comic fable about a power-mad tiger who starts a deadly war is vibrantly illustrated by Yoon in a dense, blocky print style, all in an electric red, a cool blue-green, black and white. Each page teems with evocative images of animal life. The effect is ferocious and ravishing, capturing the beastliness of war along with emotions that include pride, boredom, shock and sorrow.
本书是瑟伯1956年推出的一个漫画寓言故事，讲的是一只痴迷于权力的老虎发起一场大战的故事。尹珠熙的插图色彩鲜艳，全都是鲜亮的红色、冷静的蓝绿色、黑色和白色，印刷风格的色块密集地挤在一起。每一页都满是令人思绪飞扬的动物生活场景。画面冲击感强烈，令人陶醉，既刻画出了战争的残暴，又表现出了骄傲、厌倦、震惊和悲伤等情感。
40 pp. Enchanted Lion Books. $18.95. (All ages)
共40页。醉狮图书公司(Enchanted Lion Books)。18.95美元。（适合所有年龄）
Tricky Vic: The Impossibly True Story of the Man Who Sold the Eiffel Tower
《特里基·维克：一个卖埃菲尔铁塔的人的真实故事》(Tricky Vic: The Impossibly True Story of the Man Who Sold the Eiffel Tower)
By Greg Pizzoli
故事：格雷格·皮佐利(Greg Pizzoli)
This biography of the legendary con man who once managed to sell the Eiffel Tower bursts with cheeky wit and verve. We follow Tricky Vic, as he was known, from his birth as Robert Miller in what is now the Czech Republic to his death in a federal prison in Missouri. In one of many comic touches, a thumbprint stands in for Tricky Vic’s head. “Pizzoli’s jocular, simple but graphically sophisticated collage illustrations draw readers even further into a story it would be hard to be bored by,” Maria Russo wrote.
本书是一本传记，主人公是一个传奇骗子，曾经成功地卖掉了埃菲尔铁塔。书中充满了诙谐的玩笑，笔触充满活力，介绍了主人公从出生到离世的一生。他出生时叫罗伯特·米勒(Robert Miller)，后被世人称作特里基·维克。他生于现在的捷克，在密苏里州的一座联邦监狱走到了生命的尽头。书中有浓厚的漫画气息，其中一处是用指纹代表特里基·维克的脑袋。“这是一个很难让人感到厌烦的故事，皮佐利风趣、简单却又精美生动的拼贴插图吸引着读者一步步深入，”玛利亚·拉索(Maria Russo)写道。
39 pp. Viking. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 7 to 10)
共39页。维京出版公司(Viking)。17.99美元。（绘本，适合7至10岁）