A record 149 people in the United States were found in 2015 to have been falsely convicted of a crime, and of those, nearly four in 10 were exonerated of murder, according to a report released on Wednesday.
周三发布的一份报告显示，在2015年，美国破纪录地有149个含冤入狱的人获得平反，其中将近五分之三的人涉及谋杀罪。
The review by the National Registry of Exonerations said the inmates had spent more than 14 years behind bars on average, with some serving more than three decades. The registry is a project of the University of Michigan’s law school and aims to correct problems in the criminal justice system.
美国除罪释放登记机构(National Registry of Exonerations)发布的报告认为，这些被定罪的人平均遭受了十四年的铁窗生涯，其中有些入狱超过三十年。该登记机构是密歇根大学法学院的一个项目，旨在纠正刑事司法体系中的问题。
The annual tally of false convictions has more than doubled since 2011, the registry said. All told, its researchers have recorded 1,733 exonerations since 1989.
该登记机构披露，从2011年算起，每年被登记为冤案的数量已然翻倍。自1989年起，调查人员总共纪录了1733桩平反案件。
“The most notable thing is another increase in the rate of exonerations,” said Samuel R. Gross, the editor of the registry and a University of Michigan law professor. “That just shows that the problems that are causing convictions of innocent people happen on a regular basis.”
“最值得注意的是，除罪案件数量再次有所上升，”登记机构的编辑人、密歇根大学的法学塞缪尔·R·葛罗斯(Samuel R. Gross)表示，“这反映了导致无辜入狱背后的问题是经常发生的。”
Most of the exonerations in 2015 came from just two states: Texas, where 54 people were cleared, and New York, with 17. The registry linked that trend to efforts by individual district attorneys in Brooklyn and in Harris County, Tex., to review questionable convictions.
在2015年，大多数平反都来自两个州：得克萨斯州有54人被平反，纽约有17人被平反。登记机构认为这种趋势与布鲁克林区和得克萨斯州哈里斯县当地的几位地区检察官密不可分，他们都重查了有疑点的案件。
Since taking office in 2014, Brooklyn’s district attorney, Kenneth P. Thompson, has overseen a broad review of potentially wrongful convictions, an undertaking that has been watched closely across the country by prosecutors, defense lawyers and inmates.
自2014年上任以来，布鲁克林地区检察官肯尼思·P·汤普森(Kenneth P. Thompson)查阅了浩瀚卷宗中有可能被误判的案件。全国上下的公诉人、辩护律师和囚犯都密切关注着该行动。
Under Mr. Thompson, the office’s conviction integrity unit has cleared 17 men, mostly of murder.
在汤姆森检察官的带领下，其手下的定罪监察小组已经为17名蒙冤囚犯洗脱污名，其中大多数都是谋杀罪。
“If that same effort were put in across the country,” Mr. Gross said, “we’d find many more of these cases.”
“如果这些行动能在全国普及，我们将会发现更多此类案例。”葛罗斯教授表示。
Official misconduct played a role in 65 of the exonerations in 2015, the registry said, and false confessions were seen in 27. The most common reason inmates were cleared, in 75 of the cases, was that no crime had even occurred.
登记机构认为，在2015年平反的案件中，65件里出现了公职人员的不当行为，27件涉及虚假招供。在平反案中，最常见的原因是根本没有发生犯罪，75桩案件都是这种情况。
In one such case, three men were cleared of setting a fire in 1980 in Brooklyn that caused the death of a mother and her five children. The sole witness in the case was deemed unreliable, and advances in arson science showed that the fire was most likely an accident.
在其中一案里，有三个男人被平反。他们被指控于1980年在布鲁克林纵火，导致一位母亲和她的五个孩子身亡。该案中，唯一的目击证人被认定是不可靠的，而随着检验纵火的科技手段的进步，证明这场火灾非常有可能只是意外。
Two of the men, William Vasquez and Amaury Villalobos, spent almost 33 years each in prison on arson and murder charges. The third defendant, Raymond Mora, died in prison.
威廉·维拉罗伯斯(Amaury Villalobos)与阿莫里·瓦斯圭兹(William Villalobs)两人，因被指控纵火和谋杀罪，遭受了近33年的牢狱之灾。而第三名被告雷蒙德·莫拉(Raymond Mora)已经死于狱中。
The exonerations in Harris County, which includes Houston, largely involved drug offenses. Last year, 42 people who had pleaded guilty to possession were cleared after retesting found that the substances were not in fact drugs.
哈里斯县的平反案大多与毒品罪行有关，休斯顿是该县的一部分。去年，有42人因持有毒品认罪，如今都得到平反。因为新的检验发现，这些东西事实上并不是毒品。
Inger Chandler, who heads the county’s conviction integrity unit, told the registry that many of the defendants might have chosen to plead guilty because they were stuck behind bars, unable to make bail, and feared risking years in prison at trial.
哈里斯县的定罪监察小组组长英格·钱德勒(Inger Chandler)告诉登记机构，许多被告会选择认罪，是因为他们已经入狱，无法获得保释，而且担心一旦庭审会被判更长的刑期。
The registry found that more than two-thirds of those exonerated in 2015 were minorities, and half were African-American. Five defendants had death sentences.
该登记机构发现，在2015年的平反案件中，超过三分之二的人是少数族裔，其中一半人是非裔美国人。五名被告已被判处死刑。
Public interest in exoneration cases has risen in recent weeks as a result of the popular Netflix documentary “Making a Murderer,” which raised doubts about a murder case in Wisconsin.
最近几周，由于Netflix的纪录片《制造杀人犯》(Making a Murderer)引发热议，公众对平反案件的关注有所上升。这部纪录片对发生在威斯康星州的一桩谋杀案提出质疑。
Amateur sleuths have proliferated on Internet forums like Reddit, where they have tried to establish the innocence of the two men convicted in the case, Steven Avery and Brendan Dassey. Online petitions calling for their release have drawn hundreds of thousands of signatures.
在Reddit等网上论坛里，涌现了大量业余警探。在网上，他们试图证明，史蒂芬·艾弗里(Steven Avery)和布兰登·德西(Brendan Dassey)是两个被定罪的无辜者。号召释放二人的网上请愿书已经征集了数以十万计的签名。
Mr. Gross said that the country’s attitudes about the dependability of criminal justice outcomes were reflected in the greater attention paid to wrongful-conviction cases. The number of conviction integrity units like those in Brooklyn and Harris County grew to as many as 24 in 2015 from one in 2007, he said.
格罗斯教授认为，越来越多的对于冤假错案的关注，反映了美国民众对于刑事司法结果可靠性的看法。他表示，像在布鲁克林和哈里斯县这样的定罪检查小组，从2007年的一个，上升到2015年的十二个。