Call it the crisis of whiteness.
权且称之为“白”的危机。
White anxiety has fueled this year’s political tumult in the West: Britain’s surprising vote to exit the European Union, Donald J. Trump’s unexpected capture of the Republican presidential nomination in the United States, the rise of right-wing nationalism in Norway, Hungary, Austria and Greece.
白人焦虑推动了今年的西方政治动荡：英国令人震惊地投票决定退出欧盟，美国的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)出人意料地获得了共和党的总统提名，挪威、匈牙利、奥地利和希腊的右翼民族主义崛起。
Whiteness, in this context, is more than just skin color. You could define it as membership in the “ethno-national majority,” but that’s a mouthful. What it really means is the privilege of not being defined as “other.”
在此背景下，白不仅仅是指肤色。你可以将其定义为“人种-民族多数”的成员，但这样有点拗口。它的真正含义是不会被定义为“他者”的特权。
Whiteness means being part of the group whose appearance, traditions, religion and even food are the default norm. It’s being a person who, by unspoken rules, was long entitled as part of “us” instead of “them.”
白意味着属于一个外表、传统、宗教乃至食物都符合默认常规的群体。按照不言而喻的规则，白人意味着是一个长期被称作是“我们”，而不是“他们”中的一份子的人。
But national and racial identity were often conflated for the white majority. That identity felt to many white people like one of the most important pillars holding up their world — and now it seems under threat.
但多数白人常把民族和种族身份混为一谈。对很多白人来说，这种身份感觉像是支撑他们的世界最重要的支柱之一，而现在，它似乎受到了威胁。
There are, of course, complicated contours to 2016’s unusual politics. In Britain, immigrants from South Asia voted heavily to leave the European Union, citing hopes that curtailing European migration might open space for more people from Asia. In the United States, frustration with and alienation from status quo politics have helped drive Mr. Trump’s rise.
当然，2016年不同寻常的政治局势有着复杂的轮廓。在英国，来自南亚的移民投票大力支持退出欧盟，表示希望限制欧洲移民，以便为更多来自亚洲的移民开放空间。在美国，对政治现状的不满与脱离助长了特朗普的崛起势头。
There has also always been a certain fluidity to this concept of whiteness. Irish and Italian immigrants to the United States, and Jews in Britain, were once seen as separate from the white national majority, and are now generally considered part of it, benefiting from racial privilege. At the same time, Jews’ white skin did not protect them from being cast as outsiders by some of Mr. Trump’s supporters who have circulated anti-Semitic memes on social media.
关于“白”的定义总是存在一定程度的不稳定性。美国的爱尔兰与意大利移民，英国的犹太人，都曾一度被排除在白人多数群体之外，如今却因为他们的种族特征，同样被视为白人主流的一部分。与此同时，尽管犹太人也是白皮肤，特朗普的某些支持者们还是会把他们视为外来者，这些人经常在社交网络上散布反犹太的网络米姆。
Still, experts see a crisis of white identity underlying much of the West’s current turmoil.
然而专家却在西方当前的乱象之下看到一种白人身份危机。
“It’s fundamentally about ‘who are we?’” said Eric Kaufmann, a professor of politics at Birkbeck College, University of London. “What does it mean to be part of this nation? Is it not ‘our’ nation anymore, ‘our’ meaning the ethnic majority?
“这是关于‘我们是谁’的基本问题，”伦敦大学伯克贝克学院的政治学教授埃里克·考夫曼(Eric Kaufmann)说，“作为这个国家的一员意味着什么？它是否已经不再是‘我们’的国家？——‘我们’是指占多数的民族。
“These kinds of questions are really front and center, even though they’re not necessarily verbalized.”
“像这样的问题是极为紧要的，尽管不一定通过言语表达了出来。”
The questions can seem like a sudden reversal after decades of rising multiculturalism, through the civil rights movement in the United States and the European Union’s opening up of borders.
自从美国的民权运动以及欧洲敞开国界以来，多元文化主义已经兴盛数十载，这些问题似乎是一种突然的逆转。
In fact, academic research suggests that other economic and social transformations unfolding at the same time have led many people to anchor themselves more fully in their whiteness — even as whiteness itself has lost currency.
事实上，学术研究表明，同时期的另一种经济与社会转型令许多人更加彻底地用“白”来作为自己的支柱——尽管“白”这个字眼本身已经不常用了。
“When I look at the data, I keep coming back to this issue that it’s really about identity politics,” said Elisabeth Ivarsflaten, a professor at Norway’s University of Bergen who studies Europe’s far-right parties. “This is the most powerful predictor of support for the populists.”
“研究数据时，我不断回到这个问题上来，它其实是个身份政治问题，”挪威卑尔根大学(University of Bergen)研究欧洲极右翼党派的教授伊丽莎白·伊法斯夫拉腾(Elisabeth Ivarsflaten)说。“这是民粹主义者获得支持的最有力的征兆。”
GAINS AND LOSSES IN A CHANGING WORLD
变化世界中的得与失
Identity, as academics define it, falls into two broad categories: “achieved” identity derived from personal effort, and “ascribed” identity based on innate characteristics.
学者们指出，身份认同可以分为两大类，一种是“获得性”的身份认同，基于个人努力；另一种是“先赋性”的身份认同，基于自身天生的特征。
Everyone has both, but people tend to be most attached to their “best” identity — the one that offers the most social status or privileges. Successful professionals, for example, often define their identities primarily through their careers.
所有人身上都存在着这两种认同，但是人们倾向于更认可他们“最好”的身份——也就是能带给他们最高社会地位或特权的认同。举例来说，事业有成的职业人士通常以事业生涯来定义自己的身份。
For generations, working-class whites were doubly blessed: they enjoyed privileged status based on race, as well as the fruits of broad economic growth.
在几代人之中，工薪阶层的白人受到双重赐福：他们既拥有种族所带来的特权地位，也受惠于经济的繁荣发展。
White people’s officially privileged status waned over the latter half of the 20th century with the demise of discriminatory practices in, say, university admissions. But rising wages, an expanding social safety net and new educational opportunities helped offset that. Most white adults were wealthier and more successful than their parents, and confident that their children would do better still.
到了20世纪下半叶，随着歧视逐渐减少（比如在大学入学方面），白人的正式特权地位也在渐渐丧失。但是工资的增长、社会安全网的扩大以及新的受教育机会有助于弥补他们的损失。大多数成年白人都比父母更富裕、更成功，他们相信子女们会过得更好。
That feeling of success may have provided a sort of identity in itself.
这种成功的感觉本身也可以带来一种身份认同。
But as Western manufacturing and industry have declined, taking many working-class towns with them, parents and grandparents have found that the opportunities they once had are unavailable to the next generation.
但是随着西方制造业和工业的衰落，不少工薪阶层市镇也随之衰败，父母和祖父母们发现，下一代已经不能拥有他们曾经拥有的机会了。
That creates an identity vacuum to be filled.
这造成了一种有待填补的身份认同真空。
Arlie Russell Hochschild, the author of “Strangers in Their Own Land: Anger and Mourning on the American Right,” describes a feeling of lost opportunity as the “deep story” of the rural Louisiana communities she spent four years studying.
《自己土地上的陌生人： 美国右翼的愤怒与哀悼》(Strangers in Their Own Land: Anger and Mourning on the American Right)一书的作者阿莉·罗素·霍克希尔德(Arlie Russell Hochschild)对路易斯安那州的农村社区进行了四年的研究，她认为那里“深藏着”一种失去机会的感觉。
Her subjects felt like they were waiting in a long line to reach the top of a hill where the American dream was waiting for them. But the line’s uphill progress had slowed, even stopped. And immigrants, black people and other “outsiders” seemed to be cutting the line.
她笔下的人物们觉得自己为了登上“美国梦”的山巅，经历了漫长的排队等候，但是上山的队伍放慢了速度，甚至停顿下来了。而那些移民、黑人和其他“外来者”似乎还在插队。
For many Western whites, opportunities for achieved identity — the top of the hill — seem unattainable. So their ascribed identity — their whiteness — feels more important than ever.
对于很多西方白人来说，取得“获得性身份认同”（登上山巅）的机会似乎已经变得遥不可及。所以“先赋性身份认同”——也就是他们的“白”——变得比以往更加重要起来。
THE EFFECT OF RAPID CHANGE
飞速变化的效应
Social scientists, after crunching data from both sides of the Atlantic, have discovered something surprising: it’s not the amount of racial or ethnic diversity in a community that predicts white resentment and support of anti-immigrant policies, but the pace of change.
社会科学家们分析了来自大西洋两岸的数据，发现了一些惊人的事情：在社区内，引起白人不满，并令他们支持反移民政策的，并不是多样化民族或种族的人数，而是变化的速度。
Denmark, for instance, is 88 percent white Danish today — hardly a majority in jeopardy. But a generation ago, in 1980, it was 97 percent white. The anti-immigrant Danish People’s Party is now the second-largest party in the Danish Parliament. In Germany, where the foreign-born population shot up by approximately 75 percent between 2011 and 2015, the anti-immigrant, populist Alternative for Germany party is now drawing record support.
以丹麦为例，如今，88%的丹麦人口都是白人——这样的多数地位很难动摇。但在1980年，也就是上一代人的时候，丹麦有97%的人口是白人。反移民的丹麦人民党(Danish People’s Party)现在是丹麦议会中的第二大党。在德国，从2011年到2015年间，非本土出生人口激增了大约75%，反移民的民粹政党德国另类选择党(Alternative for Germany)如今获得了破纪录的支持率。
Britain saw a 66 percent increase in its foreign-born population between 2004 and 2014. Voters who chose “leave” in the recent referendum overwhelmingly cited immigration as their main concern.
在英国，从2004年到2014年，非本土出生的人口增长了66%。最近的全民公投中，投票选择“离开”的人大都说移民问题是自己最大的顾虑。
Professor Kaufmann and a colleague, Gareth Harris, found that white Britons who lived in areas that are rapidly diversifying became more likely to vote for the right-wing British National Party. Daniel Hopkins, a professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania, found a similar pattern of ethnic change leading to anti-immigrant politics in the United States.
考夫曼和同事加雷思·哈里斯(Gareth Harris)发现，居住在那些人种快速多样化地域的英国白人更倾向于投给右翼的英国国家党(British National Party)。宾夕法尼亚大学政治学教授丹尼尔·霍普金斯(Daniel Hopkins)在美国发现了相似的民族变化导致反移民政策的规律。
Immigrant populations in Arkansas, North Carolina and Tennessee have more than tripled since 1990, noted Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, in an analysis for Vox. Anxiety over those changes may explain why the Republican Party became so much more focused on limiting immigration over that period — and why white voters in those states overwhelmingly support Mr. Trump.
新美国基金会(New America Foundation)高级研究员李·德鲁特曼(Lee Drutman)在一份给Vox的分析文章中指出，在阿肯色州、北卡罗莱纳州和田纳西州，移民人口是1990年的三倍以上。围绕这些变化产生的焦虑或许可以解释共和党为什么在这个阶段更关注限制移民问题，还有这些州的白人投票者们何以压倒性地支持特朗普。
THE WHITENESS TABOO
“白”之禁忌
For decades, the language of white identity has only existed in the context of white supremacy. When that became taboo, it left white identity politics without a vocabulary.
几十年来，白人身份认同话语只存在于白人至上论的语境之中。当白人至上论成为禁忌，白人身份政治就陷入一种失语状态。
If you are a working-class white person and you fear that the new, cosmopolitan world will destroy or diminish an identity you cherish, you have no culturally acceptable way to articulate what you perceive as a crisis.
如果你是一个工薪阶层的白人，担心这个充满国际性的新世界会摧毁或贬抑你所珍视的身份认同，那么你并没有一种在文化上能够被接受的方式，去阐明自己内心感受到的危机。
Some of these people have instead reached for issues that feel close to their concerns: trade, crime, the war on drugs, controlling the borders, fear of Islamist terrorism. All are significant in their own right, and create very real fears for many people, but they have also become a means to have a public conversation about what society’s changes mean for white majorities.
这些人当中，有些人会借助另一些问题表达他们的忧虑：贸易、犯罪、毒品战争、边境控制、对伊斯兰恐怖主义的恐惧。诚然，这些问题都很重要，也为许多人带来了真切的恐惧，但是它们已经变成一种方式，公众借助这些问题来讨论社会变革对于占多数的白人群体的影响。
Professor Ivarsflaten cited the U.K. Independence Party, whose official platform focused on Brexit but whose pitch to voters emphasized immigrants’ effects on the economy and culture, as an example of an effective hybrid populist pitch.
伊法斯夫拉腾以英国独立党(U.K. Independence Party)为例，它的官方平台力主脱欧，但是面向选民的宣传中又强调移民对经济与文化的影响，她说这是一种混合了务实与民粹的论调。
The approach has in some cases moved from the political fringes into the mainstream. Some leaders from Britain’s center-right, governing Conservative Party, for example, helped push a British exit, and since the referendum the new Conservative prime minister, Theresa May, has signaled sympathy with white identity politics.
在许多情况下，这种做法已经渐渐从政界边缘进入主流。比如说，英国的执政党保守党立场是中间偏右，它曾经推进英国脱欧，公投之后，新的保守党首相特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)表现出对白人身份政治的同情。
Mrs. May’s government proposed a rule that would publicly shame employers who hired foreign workers. And her first major speech was full of barbs directed against multiculturalism, including a jab against people who claimed to be “citizens of the world,” whom she called “citizens of nowhere.”
梅的政府提出了一条规则，以公开羞辱雇佣外国工人的雇主。她的第一次重要讲话中充满了对多元文化主义的尖锐讽刺，比如讽刺那些自称“世界公民”的人其实“哪儿的公民也不是”。
But the struggle for white identity is not just a political problem; it is about the “deep story” of feeling stuck while others move forward.
但是白人身份认同的斗争不仅仅是个政治问题，它也是一个“深藏的”故事，一个看到别人都在向前，自己却感觉困在原地的故事。
There will not likely be a return to the whiteness of social dominance and exclusive national identity. Immigration cannot be halted without damaging Western nations’ economies; immigrants who have already arrived cannot be expelled en masse without causing social and moral damage. And the other groups who seem to be “cutting in line” are in fact getting a chance at progress that was long denied them.
回归白人占统治地位的社会，实施排外的国民身份认同，这样的事情不太可能发生。移民一旦停止，肯定会损害西方国家的经济；如果大举驱逐已经到达的移民，肯定会引起社会与道德上的损失。那些看似来“插队”的人群其实是在寻觅一个机会，加入到一个长久以来把他们拒之门外的进程中来。
Western whites have a place within their nations’ new, broader national identities. But unless they accept it, the crisis of whiteness seems likely to continue.
在西方国家更新、更广泛的国民身份认同里，白人们也有自己的一席之地。但是除非他们接受这一点，“白”的危机仍会持续存在下去。