LOS ANGELES — Oscar voters showered the neo-musical “La La Land” with 14 nominations on Tuesday, a tie with “Titanic” and “All About Eve” for the most in Academy Award history. But the academy also moved past two #OscarsSoWhite years by honoring six black actors — a record — and including diverse films like “Moonlight,” “Fences” and “Hidden Figures” in the best picture race.
洛杉矶——周二，奥斯卡评委们让新音乐剧《爱乐之城》(La La Land)获得14项提名，追平了奥斯卡奖历史上《泰坦尼克号》(Titanic)和《彗星美人》(All About Eve)的提名记录。颁发奥斯卡奖的美国电影艺术与科学学院(TheAcademy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences)还告别了#奥斯卡这么白的两年，有六名黑人演员获得提名，从而创下纪录，并让《月光男孩》(Moonlight)、《藩篱》(Fences)和《隐藏人物》(Hidden Figures)等风格各异的影片入围最佳影片。
“It makes me feel good to see such a multifaceted group of people get recognized,” said Barry Jenkins, the director of “Moonlight,” which received eight nominations. Speaking by phone from Amsterdam, where he was promoting the film, he added, “It’s an affirmation that film has the power to erode barriers and reveal what makes us all human.”
“看到如此多才多艺的一群人得到认可，我感到很高兴，”收获八项提名的影片《月光男孩》的导演巴里·杰金斯(Barry Jenkins)表示。正在阿姆斯特丹宣传该片的他在电话中说，“这是对电影具有消除藩篱并展现我们人类本质的力量的肯定。”
Nine movies, most of them cobbled together outside the studio system, will compete for Hollywood’s top prize. Filling out the best picture race are “Arrival,” a science-fiction thriller; the cops-and-robbers drama “Hell or High Water”; “Manchester by the Sea,” about a mournful New England handyman; the subtitled tear-jerker “Lion”; and “Hacksaw Ridge,” Mel Gibson’s true story of World War II heroism.
将有九部影片角逐好莱坞的最高奖项，它们大部分出自片场体制之外。角逐最佳影片的是科幻惊险电影《降临》(Arrival)、警匪片《赴汤蹈火》(Hell or High Water)、以一个悲伤的新英格兰修理工为主角的《海边的曼彻斯特》(Manchester by the Sea)、催人泪下的字幕片《雄狮》(Lion)和梅尔·吉布森(Mel Gibson)根据二战真实故事改编的英雄题材影片《血战钢锯岭》(Hacksaw Ridge)。
In a surprise, Mr. Gibson also drew a nomination as best director, officially ending his 10-year status as a Hollywood pariah for his offscreen behavior. Joining him in the directing field were Damien Chazelle (“La La Land”), Denis Villeneuve (“Arrival”), Mr. Jenkins (“Moonlight”) and Kenneth Lonergan (“Manchester by the Sea”).
令人意外的是，吉布森还获得了最佳导演的提名，正式结束了他因为银幕外的行为而被好莱坞遗弃10年的历史。他的竞争对手是达米恩·查泽雷（Damien Chazelle，《爱乐之城》）、丹尼斯·维伦纽瓦（Denis Villeneuve，《降临》）、杰金斯（《月光男孩》）和肯尼斯·罗纳根（Kenneth Lonergan，《海边的曼彻斯特》）。
Perhaps the biggest upset happened in the best actress category. “Arrival” emerged as one of the most honored films, with support in eight categories, but its star, Amy Adams, failed to receive a nod for best actress. Even worse, a website managed by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and ABC, which broadcasts the Oscars, initially listed her as a nominee. ABC took the blame, citing a rush to post names. “We apologize to the academy, press and fans for any confusion,” the network said in a statement. ABC also mistakenly named Tom Hanks as a best actor candidate for “Sully.”
最大的失落大概是在最佳女主角这个奖项上。获得八项提名的《降临》是斩获荣誉最多的影片之一，但其主演艾米·亚当斯(Amy Adams)却未能获得最佳女主角的提名。更糟糕的是，一开始，一个由美国电影艺术与科学学院和转播奥斯卡颁奖礼的ABC管理的网站把她列为了提名人选。ABC承担了责任，给出的原因是公布名字时过于仓促。“我们为引起的一切困惑向电影艺术与科学学院、媒体和影迷道歉，”该网在一份声明中说。ABC还错误地宣布汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)凭借《萨利机长》(Sully)获得最佳男主角提名。
In excluding Ms. Adams, whose performance has been honored by numerous other awards groups, academy voters backed Isabelle Huppert from the French film “Elle,” Emma Stone from “La La Land,” Natalie Portman from “Jackie,” Meryl Streep from “Florence Foster Jenkins” and the newcomer Ruth Negga from “Loving.” It was Ms. Streep’s 20th career nomination; her speech about Donald J. Trump at the Golden Globes probably won her some votes. (She reacted to her inclusion by releasing a happy dance GIF.)
亚当斯的表现获得了其他很多奖项的认可，但学院奖的评委没有支持她，而是选择了法国影片《她》(Elle)中的伊莎贝尔·于佩尔(Isabelle Huppert)、《爱乐之城》中的艾玛·斯通(Emma Stone)、《第一夫人》(Jackie)中的娜塔莉·波特曼(Natalie Portman)、《跑调天后》(Florence Foster Jenkins)中的梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)和《爱恋》(Loving)中的新人鲁丝·内伽(Ruth Negga)。这是斯特里普职业生涯中的第20次提名，在金球奖(Golden Globes)上有关唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的演讲可能为她赢得了一些选票。（得知被提名后，她公布了一幅欢快起舞的GIF图。）
Several other legends were snubbed. Voters refused to throw Martin Scorsese’s box-office bomb “Silence” a lifeline, offering a lone nod for cinematography. And Clint Eastwood’s “Sully” had to make do with one nomination, for sound editing. Once again, the academy stubbornly refused to bow toward popular movies; the hard-campaigning “Deadpool” received nothing, even in work-a-day categories.
其他几部传奇之作遇冷。评委们拒绝助力马丁·斯科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)票房大卖的《沉默》(Silence)，只给了它最佳摄影一项提名。克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)执导的《萨利机长》也不得不接受只获得最佳音响剪辑一项提名的事实。电影艺术与科学学院一如既往地拒绝向热门电影示好；卖力拉票的《死侍》(Deadpool)一无所获，连一般奖项的提名都没有得到。
As expected — and despite renewed attention on sexual-harassment lawsuits that he settled in 2010 — Casey Affleck, the star of “Manchester by the Sea,” continued his march toward the Oscar podium. He will vie for best actor alongside Denzel Washington (“Fences”), Andrew Garfield (“Hacksaw Ridge”), Ryan Gosling (“La La Land”) and Viggo Mortensen (“Captain Fantastic”).
预料之中的是，《海边的曼彻斯特》主演卡西·阿弗莱克(Casey Affleck)继续向奥斯卡颁奖台前进，虽然他2010年达成和解的性骚扰诉讼再次引发了关注。他将和丹泽尔·华盛顿（Denzel Washington，《藩篱》）、安德鲁·加菲尔德（Andrew Garfield，《血战钢锯岭》）、瑞恩·高斯林（Ryan Gosling，《爱乐之城》）和维果·莫滕森（Virgo Mortensen，《神奇队长》[Captain Fantastic]）争夺最佳男主角。
In a sharp contrast to the previous two years, when the academy put forward all-white rosters of acting nominees, voters chose the largest number of black candidates ever. Mahershala Ali and Naomie Harris each received a nod for their supporting work in “Moonlight,” a poetic drama about a young black man in Miami. Viola Davis (“Fences”) and Octavia Spencer (“Hidden Figures”) were also nominated for supporting actress. Joining Ms. Negga in the lead categories was Mr. Washington of “Fences,” an adaptation of August Wilson’s classic play about black life in 1950s Pittsburgh.
此前两年，电影艺术与科学学院公布的表演提名名单上全是白人。与之形成强烈对比的是，评委们今年选出的黑人候选人是最多的。马赫莎拉·阿里(Mahershala Ali)和娜奧米·哈里斯(Naomie Harris)凭借《月光男孩》分别获得最佳男配角和最佳女配角提名。《月光男孩》是一部富有诗意的影片，讲述的是迈阿密的一名年轻黑人的故事。维奥拉·戴维斯（Viola Davis，《藩篱》）和奥克塔维娅·斯潘塞（Octavia Spencer，《隐藏人物》）也获得了最佳女配角的提名。在内伽入围最佳女主角的同时，华盛顿也凭借《藩篱》获得了最佳男主角的提名。《藩篱》改编自奥古斯特·威尔森(August Wilson)的经典剧目，讲述的是50年代匹兹堡黑人的生活。
Another minority actor, Dev Patel, was nominated for his supporting role in “Lion,” which received six nominations in total, tying “Manchester by the Sea” and “Hacksaw Ridge.” And four of the five honored documentaries came from black filmmakers, including “13th,” Ava DuVernay’s searing look at race and mass incarceration in America, and “I Am Not Your Negro,” directed by Raoul Peck, a portrait of the writer James Baldwin and the civil-rights era. (The others in that race are “Fire at Sea,” “Life, Animated” and the seven-hour “O. J.: Made in America,” which paves the way for TV documentaries given limited theatrical release to be nominees.)
另一名少数族裔演员戴夫·帕特尔(Dev Patel)凭借在《雄狮》中的表现获得最佳男配角提名。《雄狮》总共获得了六项提名，与《海边的曼彻斯特》和《血战钢锯岭》打成平手。五部获得提名的纪录片中，四部来自黑人电影人，包括艾娃·德约列的《13th》和拉乌尔·佩克(Raoul Peck)的《我不是你的黑鬼》(I Am Not Your Negro)。前者是对美国的种族问题和大规模监禁的严厉审视，后者讲述的则是作家詹姆斯·鲍德温(James Baldwin)和民权时代的故事。（入围的其他纪录片是《海上火焰》[Fire At Sea]）、《激活的生命》[Life, Animated]和片长七小时的《辛普森：美国制造》[O.J.: Made In America]，其中《辛普森：美国制造》为院线上映有限的电视纪录片获得提名铺平了道路。)