When there’s a terrorist attack, there are courageous emergency workers. Where there’s a mass shooting, there are selfless bystanders who shield strangers and tend to the wounded. When there’s a natural disaster, there’s someone checking in on a neighbor.
发生恐怖袭击时，会有勇敢的急救人员；出现大规模枪击事件时，会有无私的路人保护陌生人并照顾受伤者；发生自然灾害时，会有人会查看邻居的情况。
The media often declare them “heroes,” though in many cases they refuse the label. They insist that they were just doing their jobs, or doing what anyone would do in their situation.
媒体经常称他们是“英雄”，但很多情况下，他们拒绝这个标签。他们坚称，自己只是做了分内的工作，或是换做任何人都会做的事情。
Whatever you call them, they provided some of the year’s most uplifting stories. Violence and destruction have a way of draining hope, but acts of altruism and selflessness under duress offered a sliver of light when people most needed it.
不管怎么称呼他们，他们都为今年带来一些最振奋人心的故事。暴力和破坏会让人失去希望，但在人们最需要的时候，无奈之下的利他与无私行为带来了一线光明。
They provided moments of uplift, often little noticed, in a year when stories of collective heroism were in the headlines: The women who came forward about sexual harassment, abuse and assault by powerful men. The undocumented immigrant students who excelled in the face of a harsh political environment in the United States. The besieged human rights lawyers defying an increasingly authoritarian Chinese government. The Native American teenagers who helped halt an energy pipeline that would have devastated their homeland in the Dakotas.
在集体英雄主义的故事频频登上新闻的一年里，他们带来了令人振奋但常常很少被注意到的时刻：女性站出来讲述自己被有权势的男人性骚扰、虐待和侵犯的经历；面对美国严酷的政治环境，无证件移民学生表现优异；处处受困的人权律师反抗威权主义愈发严重的中国政府；一群印第安年轻人参与叫停了原本可能会毁掉他们位于北达科他州和南达科他州家园的能源管道项目。
Here are some of the less prominent acts of courage by ordinary individuals who lurked behind the news — women and men who risked their lives, ran toward danger, or otherwise inspired us in 2017.
下面是隐藏在这些新闻背后的普通人做出的一些并不显眼的英勇之举：有人甘冒生命危险、有人挺身赴难，还有其他在2017年鼓舞我们的行为。
Muslims raised money to help Jewish institutions that were attacked.
穆斯林筹集资金，帮助遭遇袭击的犹太人机构。
After Jewish cemeteries in Philadelphia and near St. Louis were vandalized, and bomb threats were made at community centers and day schools, thousands of Muslims and others donated more than $136,000 for repairs.
在费城和圣路易斯附近的犹太人公墓遭到蓄意破坏、社区中心和走读学校收到炸弹威胁后，成千上万名穆斯林和其他人捐赠了逾13.6万美元的维修资金。
A man threw himself at a gunman who had killed an Indian immigrant.
一名男子冲向杀害一名印度移民的枪手。
The man, Ian Grillot, 24, was shot while intervening in a hate crime in Olathe, Kan. India House Houston, a nonprofit organization, later raised money for a reward, which Mr. Grillot used to buy a home.
在堪萨斯州奥拉西，24岁的男子伊恩·格里略特(Ian Grillot)在干预一场仇恨犯罪期间中枪。后来，非营利组织休斯顿印度之家(India House Houston)为他筹集了一笔奖励资金。格里略特用这笔钱买了一处房屋。
A homeless man aided children wounded in a terrorist attack in England.
英国一名无家可归者帮助恐怖袭击中受伤的儿童。
“Just because I am homeless doesn’t mean I haven’t got a heart, or I’m not human still,” the man, Stephen Jones, 35, told ITV News. The attack in Manchester, Britain’s deadliest terrorist attack in more than a decade, killed 22 people and injured dozens of others.
“我只是无家可归，这并不意味着我没有爱心，或失去了人性，”35岁的男子斯蒂芬·琼斯(Stephen Jones)对ITV新闻说。英国曼切斯特发生了十多年来最严重的一次恐怖袭击，造成22人死亡，数十人受伤。
Teenage girls in Nigeria, kidnapped by Boko Haram and strapped to suicide vests, managed to escape and tell their stories.
多名被博科圣地绑架、被迫穿上自杀背心的尼日利亚女孩成功出逃，并讲述了她们的故事。
“I didn’t want a situation where I’m the reason anyone dies,” one of them told us. The deployment of children has become so common that citizens are warned to be on the lookout for girl bombers.
“我不想处于那种境地，让我成为任何他人死亡原因，”其中一名女孩对我们说。用儿童干这种勾当已变得如此之普遍，以致于市民已经收到当心女童炸弹的警告。
An illustrator from Colombia jumped onto subway tracks in Manhattan to help a homeless man who had fallen.
一名来自哥伦比亚的插图画家跳到曼哈顿的地铁轨道上，帮助一名摔下去的无家可归者。
“If nobody does anything, he’s going to die,” David Capuzzo, 26, recalled thinking. A Times reporter witnessed the rescue at the Second Avenue station on the Lower East Side.
“如果没人这样做的话，他会死的，”26岁的大卫·卡波佐(David Capuzzo)回忆起自己当时的想法时说。时报记者在纽约下东区第二大道地铁站目睹了这个营救行动。
Female inmates in California signed up to fight wildfires, at times risking their lives.
加州女囚犯报名参加扑灭森林大火的行动，有时还冒下了生命危险。
Around 250 women take part in the program. They are paid less than $2 an hour for hazardous and backbreaking work.
大约有250名女子参加了这一行动。她们干这么危险艰苦的工作每小时的报酬不到两美元。
A French philosopher who praised risk-taking died while saving drowning children.
一位赞扬冒险精神的法国哲学家为救溺水儿童身亡。
“When there really is a danger that must be faced in order to survive,”  Anne Dufourmantelle said in a 2015 interview, “there is a strong incentive for action, dedication and surpassing oneself.”
安妮·杜弗芒特(Anne Dufourmantelle)在2015年的一次采访中说：“当真的有为了生存必需面对的危险时，有一种让人行动、献身和超越自我的强烈激励。”
When the time came, she acted, plunging into the Mediterranean to save two children from drowning. She died, but they lived.
在面对那个时刻时，她的行动是跳入地中海，救起两名溺水儿童。她死了，但他们活了下来。
Three men intervened to stop a xenophobic attack; two of them died.
三名男子为制止仇外袭击挺身而出，其中两人身亡。
Micah David-Cole Fletcher, a student and poet, was stabbed while intervening in a deadly xenophobic attack in Portland, Ore. He survived, but two other men who intervened — Taliesin Myrddin Namkai Meche, a recent college graduate, and Rick Best, an Army veteran —  died.
俄勒冈州波特兰市的学生和诗人迈卡·戴维-科尔·弗莱彻(Micha David-Cole Fletcher)在对一场致命的仇外袭击进行干预时被刺伤。他幸免于难，但另外两名挺身而出者——最近刚从大学毕业的塔里耶森·默尔丁·纳姆凯·迈彻(Taliesin Myrddin Namkai Meche)和退伍军人瑞克·百斯特(Rick Best)——不幸身亡。
A woman who overcame a tough childhood adopted and raised three foster children on her own.
一名女子战胜了自己不幸的童年，独自领养了三名代养儿童，将他们抚养成人。
“To be a parent is to step into a great unknown, a magical universe where we choose to love over and over,” the mother, Rene Denfield, who grew up amid poverty, neglect and abuse, wrote in a Modern Love essay. “It is an act of courage no matter what.”
“做父母就是步入一个巨大的未知世界。这是一个神奇的世界，我们在其中一次又一次地选择去爱。无论如何，这是需要勇气的行为。”母亲雷内·德菲尔德(Rene Denfield)在投给“现代爱情”(Modern Love)栏目的文章中写道。她小时候经历了贫困、无人照管和虐待。
A ballet dancer jumped onto subway tracks to lift a man to safety.
一名芭蕾舞演员跳到地铁轨道上，托起一名男子将他送到安全的地方。
“People were screaming to get help,” the dancer, Gray Davis, said afterward. “But nobody jumped down. So I jumped down.”
“人们大喊着快找人来救人，”舞蹈演员格雷·戴维斯(Gray Davis)后来说。“但没人往下跳。所以我跳了下去。”
Philippine Muslims sheltered Christians in basements to protect them from militants.
菲律宾穆斯林把基督徒藏在地下室里，让他们免受武装分子的袭击。
In the besieged southern city of Marawi, Islamist militants went house to house searching for non-Muslims to kill. Brave residents sheltered Christian neighbors and colleagues, giving them canned goods and rice to subsist on.
在南部城市马拉维被困期间，伊斯兰武装分子挨家挨户地寻找非穆斯林人，要杀死他们。勇敢的当地居民保护了信奉基督教的邻居和同事，送给他们罐头食品和大米度过艰险。
Doctors and nurses calmly did their jobs after a gunman stormed the hospital where they work.
一名枪手袭击了他们工作的医院后，医生和护士们镇静地坚守岗位。
The gunman entered Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, killing a doctor and shooting six other people. Despite their anguish, medical staff worked around the clock to treat the injured.
持枪者闯入布朗克斯-黎巴嫩医疗中心(Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center)，打死一名医生，打伤其他六人。医护人员在极度痛苦中仍连轴转地救治受伤者。
Moments of hope and inspiration rose above the chaos of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
飓风“哈维”和“伊尔玛”过后的混乱中，充满希望和鼓舞人心的时刻。
Emergency workers,  journalists and neighbors waded through floodwaters to reach people in danger during Hurricane Harvey in Houston.
飓风哈维肆虐休斯顿期间，紧急救援人员、记者和邻居们在洪水中艰难前行，向遇险者伸出救助之手。
Less than two weeks after Harvey, Florida residents staged their own rescues during Hurricane Irma and offered much-needed moments of humanity.
哈维过后不到两周，佛罗里达州的居民在遭受飓风伊尔玛袭击期间组织了自己的救援行动，展示了难得的美好人性时刻。
A teacher subdued a gunman at her high school in Illinois.
伊利诺斯州的一名女教师制服了一名持枪男子。
“Lives were saved by the quick response of a teacher here, and I think that’s what needs to be noted,” Jeff Branson, chief of the Mattoon Police Department, said in a news conference, hailing the efforts of the teacher, Angela McQueen.
“这位教师的快速响应避免了生命损失，我认为，这才是值得引起注意的事情，”马顿市警察局长杰夫·布兰森(Jeff Branson)在新闻发布会上称赞女教师安吉拉·麦奎因(Angela McQueen)时说。
An usher confronted a gunman who opened fire at a church in Tennessee.
田纳西州一个教堂的引座员勇敢地面对一名在教堂里开枪的持枪男子。
Robert Engle, 22, subdued a gunman who opened fire at the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ, near Nashville. Chief Steve Anderson of the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department said Mr. Engle’s actions helped end the shooting.
现年22岁的罗伯特·恩格尔(Robert Engle)制服了一名持枪男子，该男子在纳什维尔附近的基督教会伯内特小教堂(Burnette Chapel Church of Christ)里开枪袭击。纳什维尔大都会地区警察局局长史蒂夫·安德森(Steve Anderson)说，恩格尔的行动帮助结束了枪击事件。
The Las Vegas shooting, for all its horror, revealed humanity too.
拉斯维加斯的枪击事件虽然非常恐怖，但也揭示了人性。
“We all became one that night,” said Dean McAuley, an off-duty firefighter from Seattle who helped victims. “I got to see one person at their worst, but I got to see and witness humanity at its best.”
“那天晚上，我们团结得像一个人，”来自西雅图的消防队员迪安·麦考利(Dean McAuley)说，他在现场帮助了受害者。“我看到了一个最糟糕的情况，但我也看到并见证了人性最美好的时刻。”
Many concertgoers and bystanders went into rescue mode, combing the grounds for survivors and helping the injured get to safety. Strangers used belts as makeshift tourniquets to stanch bleeding, and  others sped the wounded to hospitals in the back seats of cars and the beds of pickup trucks.
许多参加音乐会的人和路人进入救援状态，在现场寻找幸存者，帮助伤者前往安全地带。有的陌生人把自己的皮带摘下来当作临时止血带为伤者止血，还有人将伤者放在自己小汽车后座上、或小卡车车厢里，把他们快速送往医院。
A police officer ended New York City’s worst terror attack since 9/11.
一名警察终止了纽约市自9·11事件以来最严重的一次恐怖袭击。
The officer, Ryan Nash, shot and injured the terrorist, who had used a rented truck to kill eight people and injure 12 others in Lower Manhattan.
这位名叫瑞安·纳什(Ryan Nash)的警察开枪打伤了那个恐怖分子，此人用租来的卡车在曼哈顿下城杀死了八名行人，造成12人受伤。
A policeman’s bear hug stopped a suicide bomber from killing even more people.
一名警察紧紧抱住一名自杀式炸弹袭击者，防止了更多人的死亡。
Sayed Basam Pacha, an Afghan police lieutenant, died after putting a suicide bomber in a tight hold, limiting the toll from the blast.
阿富汗警察中尉萨伊德·巴萨姆·帕查(Sayed Basam Pacha)将一名自杀式炸弹袭击者紧紧抱住后身亡，他的行动减少了爆炸造成的死亡人数。
Haitians buried the unclaimed bodies of the poor.
海地人埋葬了无人认领的穷人尸体。
Nearly eight years after the earthquake, some Haitians remain blisteringly poor and cannot bury their loved ones. The St. Luke Foundation for Haiti, a charity, buries the bodies of the island nation’s unclaimed dead.
在发生地震将近八年之后，一些海地人仍在极度贫困之中，没有能力埋葬他们逝去的亲人。慈善机构海地圣卢克基金会帮助埋葬了这个岛国无人认领的尸体。
And two reader favorites:
还有读者最喜欢的两篇报道:
Mali, a Belgian Malinois badly injured by shrapnel, was awarded the Dickin Medal, Britain’s highest award for animal bravery, for helping to sniff out Taliban militants and their booby traps.
一只名叫“马里”(Mali)的比利时马里努阿犬被授予英国对动物勇气的最高奖励迪金勋章(Dickin Medal)。马里帮助嗅出塔利班激进分子和他们设下的诱杀装置，自己却被弹片严重击伤。
Storm, a golden retriever, pulled a drowning deer to safety.
一只名叫“风暴”(Storm)的金毛猎犬把一只溺水的鹿拉到了安全的地方。