CHANGSHA, China — The 202-story Sky City project is not the tallest building on the drawing boards around the world. That distinction belongs to the Kingdom Tower, a project in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, that is supposed to be 532 feet taller — the first building to reach a full kilometer.
中国长沙——202层的建筑项目天空之城并不是世界上最高的处于设计阶段的建筑。这个荣誉属于沙特阿拉伯吉达的王国大厦(Kingdom Tower)，该建筑应该高出前者532英尺（约合162米），它将是第一个高达1000米的建筑。
But while work on the Kingdom Tower’s foundations is further along than work on Sky City, the Saudi skyscraper is not slated for completion until 2019 — five years after Sky City is to be finished.
虽然王国大厦地基的建设进度比天空之城的相关建设更接近完成阶段，沙特阿拉伯的这座摩天大楼预计要到2019年才能完工，比天空之城的预计完工时间晚五年。
The much faster building schedule here underlines how different Sky City is from most other skyscraper projects. The Broad Group, an air-conditioning manufacturer that has moved into construction, wants the building to be not only the tallest jumbo skyscraper when it opens but also the most rapidly built.
堪称神速的这个中国建设进度计划突显了天空之城与大多数摩天大楼项目的不同之处。已经投入建设工作的空调制造商远大集团希望，该建筑在启用时是最高且建设速度最快的巨型摩天楼。
The company will build it as if it were a house in the American suburbs — with prefabricated modules.
该公司将利用预制模块建造大楼，就像是在美国郊区建房一样。
Dennis Poon, the chief structural engineer for some of Asia’s tallest buildings and the vice chairman of the Thornton Tomasetti engineering firm in New York, said erecting a 202-story building out of prefabs was an extension of a global trend in the construction industry in the last few years. Many companies are using factories to make larger and larger pieces of buildings; Mr. Poon said an ambitious Chinese-owned hotel project that he was helping to build in the Bahamas used prefab bathrooms.
纽约工程公司Thornton Tomasetti董事会副主席潘子强(Dennis Poon)是一些亚洲摩天楼项目的首席建筑工程师，他表示，利用预制件建造202层高的建筑符合过去几年建筑行业的全球发展趋势，只是更进一步。很多公司正在通过工厂制造越来越大的建筑模块。潘子强表示，他目前正在参与中国人在巴哈马投资的大型酒店建筑项目，该项目就使用了预制的卫生间。
Relying entirely on modules means the 4,450 apartments will have little flexibility later to be turned into hotel rooms or offices if these should prove more profitable, he said. Assembling an entire building out of modules also considerably limits the flexibility of architects to create distinctive shapes that can symbolize a city
他说，完全依靠模块意味着这4450套公寓的灵活性会很小，以后不便于改造成酒店客房或办公室，即便这么做可能带来更多利润。利用模块组装一整栋建筑也在很大程度上限制了建筑师的选择，他们无法创造出一些独特的形状，使其成为该城市的名片。
“Feasible? Yes, of course, but you get what you get,” he said.
他说，“可行吗？是的，当然可行，只是种瓜得瓜而已。”
David Scott, a recent chairman of the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, a nonprofit group in Chicago, agreed that the project was feasible in engineering terms. China has much stricter standards than the United States for earthquake resistance, he said, and the lightweight, modular construction of Sky City will help it withstand quakes.
近期曾担任高层建筑与城市住宅委员会(Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitats)主席的戴维·斯科特(David Scott)同意上述观点，认为该项目在工程学上是可行的。该委员会是芝加哥的一个非营利性组织。他表示，中国在抗震性方面的标准要比美国严格得多，天空之城轻型、模块化的结构将有助于抵御地震。
But while the exterior walls of the building will be very heavily insulated against the weather to save energy, the thin, lightweight floors may not block enough sound traveling up and down through the building.
虽然该建筑的外墙将拥有较强的隔热性，以节约能源，其轻薄型地板可能不足以阻挡建筑物中声音的上下传递。
“You will have a challenge of hearing the people above and below you,” said Mr. Scott, who is the chief structural engineer at the Laing O’Rourke engineering firm in London. “I don’t think it would meet market expectations here.”
“你会遇到一个问题，你能听见楼上楼下的人说话，”斯科特说。“我觉得这座建筑不会满足我们这里的市场预期。”斯科特是伦敦工程公司莱恩·奥罗克(Laing O’Rourke)的首席结构工程师。
International experts question whether Sky City can be built as fast as the Broad Group promises. Keith Brooks, the director of global property at EC Harris, a global consulting firm that is one of the project managers for the Kingdom Tower in Saudi Arabia, predicted that hoisting large modules high into the sky for a 202-story building would prove more time-consuming and difficult than Broad expects.
国际专家质疑天空之城的建设进程是否会像远大集团承诺得那么快。据克力思(EC Harris)国际房产总监基思·布鲁克斯(Keith Brooks)预测，把一栋202层高楼的大型模块吊到高空将会比远大集团的预期耗费更多时间，而且难度也更大。克力思是一家国际咨询公司，也是沙特阿拉伯王国大厦的项目经理之一。
Large components tend to catch the wind like sails while they are being lifted by cranes. “I’m sure you can design the modules. The question is getting them up there,” Mr. Brooks said.
大型模块在被起重机往上吊的时候，很可能会像船帆一样招风。布鲁克斯说，“我知道这些模块的设计不成问题，但问题是如何把它们弄上去。”
He also questioned Broad’s claim that the use of prefab modules would cut in half the construction costs for Sky City, to $1.5 billion. Prefabrication reduces construction time, particularly for shorter buildings, but very seldom results in such large cost savings, he said.
远大集团曾表示，使用预制模块能把天空之城的建筑成本减少一半，降至15亿美元（约合91.8亿元人民币）。布鲁克斯对这种说法也表示怀疑。他说，采用预制模块的方法的确能缩短建筑时间，对于较低的建筑而言尤其如此，但是它很少能把建筑成本减少这么多。
But Zhang Yue, the chairman of Broad, insisted that materials savings were substantial. Prefabrication greatly reduces the need for concrete and other materials, he said.
远大集团总裁张跃坚称，这样做可以节约大量材料。他说，采用预制模块可以大幅度减少建筑过程中所需要的水泥和其他材料。
Yet another question is whether the building will sway too much at the top during thunderstorms and other windy days, making visitors queasy, even if the sway does not endanger safety.
人们还质疑在雷雨天和刮风天的时候，大厦顶层是否会因为摇摆得太过厉害而使里面的人觉得恶心难受，虽然这种摇摆并不会对安全造成威胁。
Many very tall skyscrapers built these days have a solid steel ball suspended inside the top of the building. The ball is the size of a full-size sport utility vehicle but weighs as much as 600 minivans, and it hangs from steel cables to swing back and forth like a pendulum. Called a tuned mass damper, it offsets and reduces the sway of the building.
如今，很多高层摩天大楼的顶层里都悬挂着一个实心钢球。这种球的大小与一辆全尺寸越野车相当，但其重量却相当于600辆小型面包车，它被挂在钢索上，像钟摆一样来回摇动。这个球被称为调谐质量阻尼器，能够冲抵建筑物的摇摆，降低摇晃程度。
Mr. Poon said the Shanghai Tower, which he helped design and which builders topped out at the 125th floor in early August, could have met visitor comfort guidelines for building sway without a mass damper. But the developers of that project, as in many others, opted to sacrifice space near the top of the building and incur extra costs for the installation of a tuned mass damper to have an extra margin of comfort, Mr. Poon said.
潘子强曾参与上海中心大厦的设计，该大厦的建筑商已于8月初完成了这栋125层建筑的封顶。潘子强说，这座大厦原本可以在不使用质量阻尼器的情况下满足访客对舒适度的需求。他说，但与很多其他工程项目一样，该项目的开发商选择牺牲大楼顶部的空间，额外斥资安装了调谐质量阻尼器，以获得更大的舒适度。
Mr. Zhang said that Sky City would not have a tuned mass damper because he believed that the steel modules would provide enough rigidity to limit sway.
张跃说，天空之城将不会安装调谐质量阻尼器，因为他相信钢制模块能够提供足够的稳定性，从而限制摇摆。