SANTO DOMINGO, Domincan Republic — For generations, people of Haitian descent have been an inextricable part of life here, often looked at with suspicion and dismay, but largely relied on all the same to clean rooms, build things cheaply and provide the backbreaking labor needed on the country’s vast sugar plantations.
多米尼加共和国圣多明各——对于过去的几代人而言，海地裔一直是当地生活不可分的一部分，他们常常招致怀疑和焦虑，但当地人还是在很大程度上依赖海地裔人去打扫房间、以低廉的价格修建东西，并在这里巨大的甘蔗种植园里辛苦劳作。
Now, intensifying a long and furious debate over their place in this society, the nation’s top court has declared that the children of undocumented Haitian migrants — even those born on Dominican soil decades ago — are no longer entitled to citizenship, throwing into doubt the status of tens of thousands of people here who have never known any other national identity.
而如今，多米尼加最高法院却宣布，非法海地移民的子女——即便是那些几十年前出生在多米尼加领土上的海地裔人口——都将不再拥有公民身份，这使得数以万计未接触过任何其他一种国籍的人变得身份不明，从而加剧了一场关于海地裔在多米尼加社会的地位的长期而激烈的辩论。
“I am Dominican,” said Ana Maria Belique, 27, who was born in the Dominican Republic and has never lived anywhere else, but has been unable to register for college or renew her passport because her birth certificate was no longer accepted. “I don’t know Haiti. I don’t have family or friends there. This is my home.”
“我是多米尼加人，”27岁的安娜·玛丽亚·贝利克(Ana Maria Belique)说。贝利克出生在多米尼加，并一直居住在这里，但由于她的出生证不再有效，贝利克一直无法在一家大学注册，或者更新她的护照。“我不了解海地。我没有朋友或者家人在那边。这里才是我的家。”
In a broad order that has reverberated across the hemisphere, the court has instructed the authorities here to audit all of the nation’s birth records back to June 1929 to determine who no longer qualifies for citizenship, setting off international alarm.
在一项涉及范围广泛、已对整个西半球产生影响的裁定中，多米尼加最高法院要求该国政府核查1929年6月以来的出生纪录，来决定哪些人不再有资格获得国民身份，此举在国际上敲响了警报。
The United Nations high commissioner for refugees warned that the decision “may deprive tens of thousands of people of nationality,” while the regional alliance of Caribbean nations, which the Dominican Republic has sought to join, condemned how masses of people are “being plunged into a constitutional, legal and administrative vacuum.”
联合国难民事务高级专员警告称，该决定“可能会让数以万计的人们失去国籍”，而多米尼加所寻求加入的加勒比海国家地区联盟也谴责称，这将使很多人“陷入一个宪法、法律和管理的真空之中”。
“It is remarkably sweeping in terms of numbers: over 200,000 made stateless — a staggering figure,” said Laura Bingham, who tracks citizenship issues for the Open Society Foundation. She and other legal experts called it one of the more sweeping rulings denying nationality in recent years.
“在人口方面，这项裁定涉及范围极广：超过20万人将因此变成无国籍人——数字十分惊人，”为开放社会基金会(Open Society Foundation)研究公民身份问题的劳拉·宾厄姆(Laura Bingham)说道。她和其他法律专家认为，这是近年来涉及范围较广的剥夺国籍的裁定之一。
To some extent, the ruling, issued Sept. 23, and the intensity of emotions around it carries echoes of the immigration debate in the United States and other countries, with wide disagreement on how to treat undocumented workers and their children.
在某种程度上，这份发布于9月23日的裁定，及其引发的强烈情绪，也在很大程度上呼应了美国及其他国家关于移民的类似辩论。在这些国家，关于如何对待非法移民工人及其子女存在着巨大分歧。
But given the history of the Dominican Republic and Haiti — a sometimes cooperative, often tense and occasionally violent relationship between two nations sharing one island — the decision has brought to the surface a unique set of racial tensions and resentment toward the waves of impoverished Haitian migrants that fill menial jobs on this side of the border.
但回顾多米尼加和海地的历史——两国位于同一座岛屿上，有时相互合作，但经常关系紧张，不时还会剑拔弩张——法院的这一裁定，揭示了两国间独特的一系列种族矛盾，以及对于大批贫穷海地移民越境从事低级工作的不满。
An estimated 200,000 people born in this country have Haitian parents, according to the last census, by far the largest immigrant group here and thus the one most widely affected by the ruling. Haitian immigrants occupy the lowest rungs of society here, and have for generations, living in urban slums or squalid sugar plantation camps where wage abuse remains common, as a United States Department of Labor report found last month.
据估计，有20万名出生在多米尼加的人，父母来自海地。他们是这个国家最大的移民群体，这个裁定对他们的影响也最为深远。美国劳工部上月发布的一份报告中称，海地移民占据着多米尼加社会最底层，而且数代人都居住在城市的贫民窟或者肮脏的甘蔗种植园里，那里克扣薪水的现象仍十分普遍。
For decades, Haitians, housed in remote shantytowns known as bateys, were brought over on contracts for sugar plantations to cut cane under the blistering sun for meager wages. Many still labor in the fields, while others work as maids, construction workers, janitors and in other low-paying jobs.
数十年来，不断有海地人签下契约来到多米尼加，为甘蔗种植园工作。他们住在偏僻的棚户区（即所谓的batey，甘蔗种植园工人居住区——译注），他们要在烈日下砍伐甘蔗，只能赚取微薄的工资。时至今日，很多人还要在田地里劳作，而其他人则当女佣、建筑工人、门卫或从事其他的低薪工作。
Top officials in the government met on Wednesday to figure out how to carry the ruling, which cannot be appealed. In the meantime, the migration director, José R. Taveras, said that people in limbo would be issued temporary residency permits while the country comes up with a plan to grant them some form of immigrant status. But to many people, that means losing the benefits of citizenship, which beyond basics like voting also allows for lower tuition at state colleges, public health insurance for low-income citizens and an array of public-sector jobs.
周三，政府高官举行了会议，讨论如何执行这项无法再被上诉的裁决。与此同时，移民局局长何塞·R·塔夫拉斯(José R. Taveras)说，在国家制定计划向身份待定者给予某种形式的移民身份之前，他们将获得临时的居留许可。但对很多人而言，这意味着失去公民享受的福利。除了像投票权这样的基本权利以外，这些福利还包括公立大学较低的学费、低收入公民享有的公共医疗保险，以及公共部门的大量就业机会。
Although Haiti technically bestows citizenship on the children of its nationals, the process can be full of bureaucratic entanglements and slowed by missing or incomplete records both in Haiti and among people who have emigrated, let alone the fact that few of the children of migrants here consider themselves anything but Dominican.
尽管从严格的法律意义上来说，海地会向国民的子女授予海地国籍，但相关程序却可能充满官僚程序产生的枝节，海地的官方记录和移民本人的文件不全或缺失，都会延缓这个过程，何况移民的后代中很少有人会认为自己不是多米尼加人。
The battle has been in the making for years. People born on Dominican soil, with some exceptions, generally were granted citizenship for generations, but people of Haitian descent often complained of discriminatory practices when getting official documents, and in recent decades the country’s civil registry officials often excluded the children of undocumented migrants by considering their parents “in transit.”
这场战斗已经酝酿多年了。除了一些例外，一代又一代在多米尼加领土上出生的人一般都能获得该国国籍，但海地裔经常抱怨在申领正式证件时受到了区别对待。而且，近几十年来，该国负责民事登记的官员往往会拒绝非法移民的后代，因为他们认为申请者的父母还在“迁移”。
The Inter-American Court on Human Rights in 2005 denounced the practice as a way of discriminating against people who had been in the country for a lifetime. Still, the Dominican Republic enshrined the rule in 2010 by a constitutional amendment that excludes the Dominican-born children of illegal residents, including seasonal and temporary workers, from Dominican citizenship. The new court decision not only ratifies the change, but also goes a step further by ordering officials to audit the nation’s birth records, compile a list of people who should not qualify for citizenship and notify the embassy of another country when a person’s nationality is in question.
2005年，美洲国家间人权法院(Inter-American Court on Human Rights)谴责这种做法是对那些终身生活在这个国家的人的歧视。但2010年，多米尼加仍然通过了一项宪法修正案支持了这种做法。修正案规定，非法移民（包括时令劳工和临时工）在多米尼加生育的子女不享有公民身份。最新的法庭裁决不仅是对这一修正案的认可，而且还更进了一步，下令官员审查该国的出生记录，编列没有资格获得国籍者的名单，并在某人国籍存在问题时告知其他国家的大使馆。
Legal experts, as well as two dissenting judges on the constitutional court, called it a violation of legal principles to retroactively apply the standard of citizenship established in the 2010 Constitution. “As a consequence of this restrictive interpretation and its retroactive application, this ruling declares the plaintiff as a foreigner in the country where she was born,” wrote one of the dissenting judges, Isabel Bonilla.
部分法律专家和宪法法院两名持异议的法官认为，将2010年《宪法》中确立的公民标准向过去追溯，违背了法律原则。其中一位持反对意见的法官伊莎贝尔·博尼利亚(Isabel Bonilla)写道，“因为做出了这种限制性的解释，并将其溯及既往，这项裁决将出生在这个国家的原告人，宣告为外国人。”
The case arose from Juliana Deguis, a 29-year-old woman born in the Dominican Republic to Haitian migrants and working as a maid. She sought her national identity card, using her Dominican birth certificate, but was rejected because the document indicated that her parents were Haitian migrants, not legal residents. Legal advocates for Haitian migrants and their children took the case to court, arguing that Ms. Deguis’s parents were residents because they had been contracted to work on a sugar plantation and never returned to Haiti, but the court ruled that they were “in transit.”
这个案子是由29岁的胡利亚纳·德吉(Juliana Deguis)引发的。从事女仆工作的她出生在多米尼加，父母是海地移民。她申请获得国民身份证，用的是自己的多米尼加出生证明，但却被拒绝了，因为出生证明显示她的父母是海地移民，不是合法居民。为海地移民及其子女争取权益的法律人士将这起案件告上法庭，申辩称德吉的父母是居民，因为他们与人签了合同，在一座甘蔗种植园工作，而且从未回过海地，但法庭裁定他们是“流动人口”。
For now, Dominicans caught up in the ruling await the government’s next steps. Ms. Deguis is not working and worries about caring for her four young children, all born in the Dominican Republic as well. “If there is now this confusion about me,” she asked, “what about them?”
如今，受困于这项裁决的多米尼加人在等着政府下一步的举措。没再工作的德吉为照顾自己四个年幼的孩子忧心忡忡，这些孩子也是在多米尼加出生的。她说，“如果现在我面临这种困惑，他们怎么办？”