It could be said that Norman Mailer was a man and a writer halfway between fame and infamy and yet with little in the way of middle ground. He was, in varying combinations, a world-class drinker, feuder, provocateur, self-mythologizer and anti-feminist. He was a war protester, a mayoral candidate, a co-founder of The Village Voice, as well as a wife stabber, a serial husband (of six wives), and a father (of nine). He was a boxer, an actor, a filmmaker, a poet and a playwright. He was also a journalist and a novelist of enormous and singular narrative inventiveness and thrust, a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, and one of the least boring and most tireless and tiresome public figures of the last half of the 20th century.
可以说，诺曼·梅勒无论作为一个男人，还是一位作家，都是美名与骂名参半，却很少有模棱两可的中间立场。他的身份有很多种不同的组合：他是个世界级的酒徒、爱闹事、好结仇、常将自己神话化，还反对女权主义；同时，他也是反战倡导者、市长候选人、《村声》（The Village Voice，创办于1955年、纽约格林威治村的文化艺术类周刊，持左翼立场，在知识分子中影响极大——译注）的创办人之一；他还担了“刺妻”的恶名，结过六次婚，育有九个子女；除此以外，他也是一名拳击手、演员、电影人、诗人和剧作家；作为新闻工作者和小说家，其对叙事手法的创新与推动影响远大，他两度荣获普利策奖，是20世纪后半叶最有意思、谈资不断，也最令人生厌的公众人物之一。
Like most legends, Mailer’s was, as Geoffrey Wolff called it, a “self-­cultivated” one. And indeed, a veritable Norman Mailer cottage industry has burnished the legend and continues to carry it forward. No fewer than 15 biographies, quasi-­biographies and remembrances, by admirers, literary historians, wives and a mistress, have been published since 1969, when the torrent of Mailer-centric scholarship began, almost four decades before his death in 2007. My rough calculation puts the total number of book pages already devoted exclusively to Mailer at more than 5,000. This month sees the publication of “Mind of an Outlaw,” a collection of his essays, including such near masterpieces as “Superman Comes to the Supermarket,” the dispatch about the 1960 Kennedy campaign he wrote for Esquire, and “The White Negro,” a rumination that first appeared in Dissent, on what some now call “wiggers” — white hipsters who associate with black music and culture. More significantly — and adding another 900 pages to the canon — comes J. Michael Lennon’s sweeping full-scale biography, “Norman Mailer: A Double Life.” It is a mighty undertaking befitting Mailer’s lifetime of protean output, which began in his 20s and continued right through the last decades of his life and up to the year of his death. Lennon is a fluid writer, and he’s done his homework. There’s not a paragraph in this enormous book that doesn’t contain a nugget of something you should have known or wish you had known. Lennon has it all, and he has it down. And despite being his subject’s literary executor, he has not sanded the corners of a career and life, each of which has plenty of texture and lots of sharp edges.
如大多数传奇人物，梅勒也是“自行修炼”成正果的——杰弗里·乌尔夫(Geoffrey Wolff)如是评价。实际上，诺曼·梅勒的铁杆粉丝团已将他的传奇打磨得光亮闪耀，并且仍将继续下去。自1969年以来发表的关于他的传记、类传记和回忆录不下15部，作者包括崇拜者、文学史专家、几任妻子和一名情妇。也正是从那时起，围绕梅勒的研究一发而不可收，此时离2007年梅勒逝去还有四十余载。据我粗略统计，专门关于梅勒的记录和描写的书有5000页之多。本月，他的文集《亡命之徒的内心思想》(Mind of an Outlaw)发表于世，其中包括了很多名篇，诸如：《超人逛超市》(Superman Comes to the Supermarket)、他为《Esquire》杂志撰写的1960年肯尼迪竞选总统的新闻报道，以及最先发表于《异见》(Dissent)杂志的关于“认同黑人音乐与文化的白种潮人”的文化反思文章《白种黑人》(The White Negro)等。而更值得注目的，则是J·迈克尔·列侬(J. Michael Lennon)撰写的洋洋洒洒900页的全面人物传记《诺曼·梅勒的双重生活》(Norman Mailer: A Double Life)。这项浩大的工程与梅勒变幻莫测的一生和写作题材相得益彰，时间跨越从他二十几岁到最后几十载直至去世那一年。列侬笔法流畅，研究凿实。在这部巨著中，每个段落不无包含着你前所未闻又相知恨晚的宝贵信息。列侬此书可谓尽言尽慎。虽然身为梅勒的遗稿保管人，对于其人其作的锋利棱角与多变质地，他却未曾打磨，而原貌呈将出来。
The year 1923 was a good one for writers: Paddy Chayefsky, James Dickey and Joseph Heller were all born that year. As was Mailer. He grew up on the outer fringes of New York City in a household dominated by women. A smart lad, he was shipped off to Harvard at 16, where he got his first taste of literary accomplishment when his entry for a college writing contest was published in Story magazine. He read voraciously, especially Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Dos Passos and Henry Miller — and, in a way, his life and career became a meld of all four. As Lennon writes, Mailer liked to keep a bottle of gin on his mantel at school, “because he read that Hemingway drank it.”
对于作家而言，1923年是个好年份：帕迪·查耶夫斯基(Paddy Chayefsky)、詹姆斯·迪基(James Dickey)、约瑟夫·海勒(Joseph Heller)均诞生于这一年。梅勒也是如此。他成长于纽约城边缘一个女人们说了算的家庭里。天生聪颖的他16岁即入哈佛大学学习，在那里，他参加大学写作比赛的文章发表于《故事》(Story)杂志，由此才初尝了文学成就的乐趣。他贪婪地阅读， 尤其是海明威(Hemingway)、菲茨杰拉德(Fitzgerald)、多斯·帕索斯(Dos Passos)和亨利·米勒(Henry Miller)——从某个角度而言，他的人生和写作就成为了这四者的混合。如列侬写道的，在学校，梅勒喜欢在他的壁炉台上放一瓶杜松子酒，“因为他读过海明威就喝这种酒。”
When America entered the Second World War, Mailer was drafted and sent to the Philippines. To young men of a literary bent, the conflict became the story of a lifetime, and on warships tossing in the Pacific or on troop caravans crossing the devastation of Europe, books about what they had just experienced began to germinate. Like his literary idols, Mailer went to Paris after hostilities had ended, and finished “The Naked and the Dead.” The book, which came out in 1948, the same year as Irwin Shaw’s “Young Lions,” is a brutal, naturalistic depiction of a single platoon in the South Pacific, with enough details about the sex lives of G.I.’s to bring a blush to the cheeks of not only Masters and Johnson, but a Kardashian or two. It landed on the best-seller list and stayed there for more than a year. Mailer was just 25. The Times gave it a largely favorable review. It’s “not a great book,” the critic said, “but indisputably it bears witness to a new and significant talent among American novelists.”
当美国加入第二次世界大战后，梅勒应招入伍，派往菲律宾。对于热衷于文学的年轻人来说，战斗与冲突便成为他们一生的故事主题。乘军舰在太平洋上颠簸，或随骑兵连在欧洲的战乱荒芜中穿行，关于这些体验的小说开始在他们心中酝酿。如他的文学偶像一样，梅勒在战事结束后来到巴黎，写成了《裸者与死者》(“The Naked and the Dead”)。此书于1948年面世，与欧文·肖(Irwin Shaw)的《幼狮》(Young Lions)同年出版，对南太平洋上的一支步兵排进行了残酷露骨的、自然主义的刻画，其间对士兵性体验的细致描写恐怕让马斯特斯和约翰逊(Masters and Johnson)，甚至卡戴珊(Kardashian)家的那几位也读之汗颜（马斯特斯和约翰逊，20世纪后半叶美国著名性学专家搭档；卡戴珊，美国娱乐界著名家庭，三个女儿多有性绯闻爆出——译注）。此书一出即登上畅销书榜单，并占据榜位一年多。梅勒时年仅25岁。《泰晤士报》也刊登了以褒奖为主的书评。这本书“虽算不上伟大的作品，”评论家写道，“但是它无疑见证了在美国小说家的行列里一位杰出新秀的诞生。”
Mailer published continuously, but only rarely did he get to bathe in the pool of critical and commercial approval he experienced with “The Naked and the Dead,” which some reports say is still his best-selling book. He wrote constantly, though, and with great catholic expanse, not only about the Kennedy campaign but also about moon shots, Marilyn Monroe, Lee Harvey Oswald, the war in Vietnam, the battle of the sexes, the 1968 Democratic convention in Chicago and, later, the C.I.A., Picasso, Hitler and God.
梅勒一本接一本地出书，但却很少再经历过写《裸者与死者》时那样的评论如潮和商业成功，据一些报道称，那仍是他最畅销的一本书。尽管如此，他笔耕不辍，题材也包罗万象，不仅涉及肯尼迪竞选，更有关于登月、玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)、李·哈维·奥斯瓦尔德（Lee Harvey Oswald，被认为是刺杀了肯尼迪总统的凶手——译注）、越战、性别权力之争、1968年在芝加哥举行的民主党全国大会，以及后来的中央情报局、毕加索、希特勒、上帝等等方面的选材。
As his books achieved varying levels of success, Mailer the public figure began to eclipse Mailer the writer. Back in those pre-feminist-era days, one of the more horrific, if effective, ways of making the transition from fame to infamy was to stab your spouse with a penknife — as he did to his second wife, Adele, in 1960. In keeping with the times, Mailer also became more overtly political. He was one of 31 high-minded liberals, including Jean-Paul Sartre, who signed an ad in The New York Times supporting the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, which counted among its members Lee Harvey Oswald. (Mailer and many others quickly resigned from the group when Oswald shot and killed the president.) He was a vigorous opponent of the war in Vietnam and in 1967 was arrested during the movement’s march on the Pentagon.
在他的著书取得了不同程度的成功时，梅勒作为公众人物的影响力正在吞噬他作为作家的影响力。在女权主义尚未到来的时代里，要是你想完成从美名到骂名的转身，一种最恐怖（怕是也很有效）的办法就是用折叠小刀刺伤自己的妻子——他就这么干了，那是1960年，受害者是他第二任妻子阿黛尔(Adele)。为了与时俱进，梅勒还变得更加公开自己的政治立场。他是31位高级知识分子自由派人物之一，这里面还包括了让-保罗·萨特(Jean-Paul Sartre)，萨特在《纽约时报》的广告上签字支持“公平对待古巴委员会”，此会成员中包括李·哈维·奥斯瓦尔德（梅勒等很多人在奥斯瓦尔德射杀了总统后，很快从组织中撤出）。他还是越战的强烈反对者，在1967年在五角大楼前举行的反战活动游行中被捕。
The next year Mailer published both “The Armies of the Night,” his novelistic work of nonfiction about the march, and “Miami and the Siege of Chicago,” his reported novel about the 1968 Democratic and Republican conventions. Lennon writes gracefully, but every once in a while the academic in him bursts forward. In his description of Mailer’s constant struggle with voice — first person, third person — particularly in “The Armies of the Night,” he writes: “The paradox of his achievement is that in a narrative that sundered the protagonist into Mailer-now and Mailer-then, he was able to unite all the actors, currents and rich particularities of the march, seeing them through the oppositions of his psyche. This division of self by fiat, the resolution of 20 years of point-of-view uncertainties, was a masterstroke and the most significant aesthetic decision of Mailer’s career.” If you don’t fully comprehend that passage, you’re not alone. The two books came out nine months apart, and both were nominated for the National Book Award. “The Armies of the Night” won — and it took home a Pulitzer to boot.
转年，梅勒发表了《夜幕下的大军》(The Armies of the Night)，这是他以小说体写成的关于反战游行的纪实性文学作品，还有他记录1968年民主党和共和党大会的《迈阿密和芝加哥之围》(Miami and the Siege of Chicago)。列侬写得很文雅，但他内心中的学者风格时而就在字里行间迸发出来。他在谈到梅勒写作中（特别是《夜幕下的大军》中）对第一人称和第三人称的纠结时，写道：“其成就的悖论在于，在将主要人物剖分为“此时的梅勒”和“彼时的梅勒”的叙事中，他能够将所有的人物组织起来，驾驭好游行事件的节奏与特点，透过他自己心智与灵魂的对立面去审视人物。这种有意识的主体分裂，20年来贯持的视角、观点的游移，是梅勒的妙笔所在，也是其写作事业中最重要的审美选择。”如果你没完全理解上述这段话，想必很多人也是如此。梅勒的这两本书在九个月内相继出版，并被双双提名入围美国“国家图书奖“的评选。《夜幕下的大军》最终获奖，还一连获得普利策奖，可谓锦上添花。
Mailer was on a book tour for “The Armies of the Night” when he received a fan letter from William Inge, the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright. Inge told Mailer he’d seen him on television and thought he was good-looking enough to run for office. Lennon says Mailer had considered a political career before, but thought the wife-stabbing incident might have hampered his chances. (How times have changed.) With the whole Adele business in the more distant past, in 1969, Mailer took Inge up on his suggestion, and with his pal, the columnist Jimmy Breslin, ran for mayor on the general platform of New York becoming the 51st state. Fortunately for the city and the nation, John Lindsay won that one handily.
梅勒在为《夜幕下的大军》巡回签售期间，收到一封来自“粉丝”、同是普利策奖得主的剧作家威廉姆·英奇(Willian Inge)的信。英奇在信中告诉梅勒，他在电视上见过梅勒，觉得他仪表堂堂，可以竞选政府官职。列侬提到，梅勒之前就考虑过从政，但认为自己刺伤妻子一事妨碍了自己的仕途（时代变迁啊，叹叹）。1969年，当整个“阿黛尔事件”离得比较久远之后，梅勒接受了英奇的建议，和朋友、专栏作家吉米·布莱斯林(Jimmy Breslin)一道，以“立纽约为第51个州”为政纲竞选纽约市长。值得这个城市和国家庆幸的是，对手约翰·林赛(John Lindsay)轻松取胜。
Lennon is tireless on the domestic aspects of Mailer’s life, both on Cape Cod and in Brooklyn Heights. He goes into considerable detail with regard to Mailer’s morning toiletry habits. I don’t want to give away too much here, and this is a family newspaper, but it’s enough to say that the morning ritual culminates with a long session behind closed doors and a few hands of solitaire, to, as Mailer puts it, “comb my mind.” Like all writers, Mailer was constantly short of funds. In part, this was due to the oversupply of ex-wives. There was Beatrice, then Adele, then Jeanne, then Beverly, then Carol and finally Norris. That’s not counting the serial encounters with dozens upon dozens of mistresses. (“Infidelities of” account for no fewer than 56 page mentions in Lennon’s index.) In Peter Manso’s oral biography, “Mailer: His Life and Times,” Shelley Winters claims that Marilyn Monroe had Mailer’s name on her list of “fantasy lovers.” Norris Church, a wise, cool drink of water who had once dated Bill Clinton and who was Mailer’s wife at the time of his death, said in her 2010 memoir, “A Ticket to the Circus,” that he “had a great time playing Henry Higgins to my Eliza Doolittle.” Indeed, it was Mailer who suggested that she change her name from Barbara to Norris. At one point she became fed up with his constant womanizing. Mailer’s sister, who witnessed Norris’s fury, wondered why he continued to play around. “ ‘Why did you do it?’ she asked. Because, he replied, ‘life was getting too safe.’ ”
关于梅勒的家庭生活方面的描写，无论是科德角，还是布鲁克林高地（梅勒的两处旧居所在——译注），列侬都不厌其烦、面面俱到，连梅勒晨起的漱洗习惯也进行了细致入微的记录。我不想在此透露过多，而且又是在适宜家庭订阅的报纸上，这么说吧：梅勒早上那漫长的梳洗仪式是以长时间的关起门来“自摸几把单人纸牌”作为落幕的，用梅勒的话说，这样可以“梳理我的心绪”。像所有作家一样，梅勒总是钱不够花，这在某种程度上也是由于支付多位前妻的赡养费用造成的。前妻阵容先是比阿特丽斯(Beatrice)，然后是阿黛尔(Adele)、珍妮(Jeanne)、贝弗利(Beverly)、卡洛尔(Carol)，最后是诺里斯(Norris)，这还不算那数也数不清的一系列情人（在列侬书中索引里，涉及“婚外情”处不下56页）。在彼得·曼索(Peter Manso)的口述传记《梅勒：他的生活与时代》(“Mailer: His Life and Times”)中，谢利·温特斯（Shelley Winters，美国20世纪后半叶女演员——译注）称，玛莉莲·梦露曾将梅勒列在她的“梦中情人”名单里。诺里斯·丘奇(Norris Church)，这位智慧可人、曾与比尔·克林顿拍拖的女人、梅勒临终时的妻子，在她2010年著的回忆录《一张马戏表演的门票》(A Ticket to the Circus)中说他“十分乐得做她这个伊莱莎·杜利多的亨利·希金斯（Eliza Doolittle，Henry Higgins系《窈窕淑女》中的主要人物，教授亨利将卖花女伊莱莎“改造”为上流贵妇——译注）。”实际上，也是梅勒建议她将原名芭芭拉(Barbara)改为诺里斯。有一段时间，诺里斯实在受够了梅勒在外拈花惹草，梅勒的妹妹目睹了诺里斯的暴怒，不解梅勒为何仍然继续偷腥，她质问他“为什么要那样？”他回答说，因为“日子过得太安逸了”。
When Mailer’s finger left the pulse of the zeitgeist — which it did with some regularity — it more often than not settled on the third rail of intellectual discourse: sexual politics. In 1959 he delivered this sweeping assessment of books written by women: “At the risk of making a dozen devoted enemies for life,” he said with majestic understatement, “the sniffs I get from the ink of the women are always fey, old-hat, Quaintsy Goysy, tiny, too dykily psychotic, crippled, creepish, fashionable, frigid, outer-Baroque, maqueillé in mannequin’s whimsy, or else bright and stillborn.” He wasn’t done. Sticking his other hand into the wood chipper, he ended by saying that “a good novelist can do without everything but the remnant of his balls.” And with this brisk appraisal came the enmity of half the American reading public. Mailer believed that because he was surrounded by women from birth — a commanding mother and two sisters, six wives and five daughters — he could get away with his dips into misogyny. He grew up, he said, in a “family with a lot of wonderful, adoring women. . . . I took it for granted that I could say anything I wanted about women because they knew I loved them.”
梅勒的手指头逐步离开了时代的脉搏，这个过程以关于“性政治”这个不能碰的学术大讨论告终。1959年，他对女性作者的著书进行了扫荡式的评判。“冒着结下几个终生死敌的风险，”他还是慷慨陈词，“我嗅到女人写的笔墨味，总觉得古怪、老套、奇特、小气、神经兮兮、残缺不全、追赶时髦、冷淡无情、以俗艳标新立异，犹如塑料模特发出的奇思妙想、即使文笔聪明也半路夭折。”话至此他仍不罢休，决意要把另一只手也伸进木头粉碎机，作为这段评论的结语，他写道：“一个好的小说家别的都可以不具备，但是不能没有一对卵。”如此干脆的点评，立即招致全美国一半读者的憎恶。梅勒以为，由于他从出生起就一直生活在女人堆里（一位威严的母亲、两个妹妹、六任妻子和五个女儿），所以就可以淌一淌这“厌女”的浑水而不湿鞋。他说，他成长于一个“拥有很多出色、可敬的女性的家庭中……所以关于女性的言论我畅所欲言惯了，觉得说什么也无妨，因为她们知道，我是爱她们的。”
As feminism became the law of the land, Mailer seemed to relish his outlaw status. As with much of his public baiting, he pushed boundaries largely for effect. When he suggested that women “should be kept in cages,” Norris said, “you couldn’t see the twinkle in his eye. . . . Norman was not against equal rights. He just liked to be funny and ironic.” At the same time, Mailer could be hopelessly self-involved. After the stabbing incident with Adele, he told an interviewer: “I lost any central purchase I had on the right to say what is happening. I’m parti pris. Now when I argue the times are violent, they can say, well, look what he did. I destroyed forever the possibility of being the Jeremiah of our time.” It’s a rare stabber who can play equal victim to the person stabbed.
当女权主义成为主流王道之后，梅勒似乎十分乐于大唱反调。为了吸引公众眼球，他一再地挑战大家的接受极限。当他建议女人“应该关在笼子里”时，诺里斯说“你没听见他说这话时的语气。诺曼并不反对男女平等。他只是爱开玩笑，说些反讽的话。”但同时，梅勒又是那么不可救药的自私。在刺伤阿黛尔事件之后，他对一位采访记者说：“我已经丧失了所有辩解的权力。大家对我的判断已经是先入为主的偏见了。现在如果我再去立论，说我们这个时代太暴力了，大家就会说，瞧瞧他自己干的好事，还说别人呢。我自己毁掉了成为我们这个时代的耶利米的机会（耶利米，Jeremiah，圣经人物，被称作“流泪的先知”，以逆耳忠言遭来自己深爱的同胞们的憎恶和迫害。——译注）。”作为凶手，可以这样把自己也摆在受害者的位置上，实属少见。
If Mailer was the Sonny Liston of the literary feud, then Gore Vidal, two years his junior, was the Muhammad Ali. Vidal fought with everyone, including Truman Capote, Andy Warhol, Ayn Rand and, most famously, William F. Buckley at the Democratic convention in 1968. (Years ago, when I was at Spy magazine, we said that Vidal was highly litigious. He called me a few weeks after publication to say that if we didn’t retract the statement, he’d sue. Years later, after he began writing for Vanity Fair, I reminded him of the incident, and gently asked if he saw the irony in his threat. He said he did not.)
如果说梅勒是文学界纷争中的索尼·利斯顿（Sonny Liston，美国上世纪中期最出色拳击手之一，后被阿里打败——译注），那么小他两岁的戈尔·维达尔(Gore Vidal)便是穆罕默德·阿里(Muhammad Ali)。维达尔跟所有人都对过阵，包括杜鲁门·卡波特(Truman Capote)、安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)、安·兰德(Ayn Rand)，以及最著名的1968年民主党国家大会上与威廉姆·F·巴克利(William F. Buckley)的争论（多年前，我在《间谍》(Spy)杂志工作的时候，杂志曾称维达尔好斗爱打官司，他几周后打电话给我们，称如果我们不撤回这个说法，他将起诉我们。许多年后，在他已开始为《名利场》(Vanity Fair)杂志撰稿时，我又和他提起这件事，并小心地问他有没有觉得他当时的反应其实令人啼笑皆非。他说他不觉得）。
The walk-up to the main event in the Mailer vs. Vidal rivalry began in 1971 when the two men took after each other on “The Dick Cavett Show.” In a piece in The New York Review of Books, Vidal had said that Mailer’s “Prisoner of Sex” read like “three days of menstrual flow.” That wasn’t what angered Mailer though; what really got his goat was that Vidal had linked him to Charles Manson. When the two authors met in the Cavett show greenroom, Mailer reportedly head-­butted Vidal, and things just went downhill from there. Mailer had been drinking, and it showed. He said that Vidal was “absolutely without character or moral foundation or even intellectual substance.” At one point, Janet Flanner, who was the third guest, said how surprised she was they were doing this in public rather than in private, and that she was bored with the conversation. This brought down the house.
在梅勒对维达尔的决战发生之前，有一次矛盾升级事件，即1971年二人在《迪克·卡维特脱口秀》(The Dick Cavett Show)上的争执。在《纽约书评》(The New York Review of Books)的一篇文章中，维达尔说梅勒的《性的囚犯》(Prisoner of Sex)一书读来活像“三天的月经期”。但这还不是最惹到梅勒的地方，最终激怒他的，是维达尔将他和查尔斯·曼森（Charles Manson，美国上世纪60年代末歌手、词作家、杀人犯，那个年代精神错乱、暴力血腥的象征——译注）联系了起来。这两位作家在卡维特节目的演员休息室里相遇，据称梅勒用头冲撞了维达尔，事情便由此一发不可收。梅勒之前喝了酒，而且很明显。他说，维达尔“全然没有品行或道德底线，甚至也缺乏文化底蕴。”争吵中，节目当时的另一位嘉宾珍妮特·弗兰纳(Janet Flanner)说，看到他们在公众场合吵成这样，而不是到私下去解决，感到非常惊骇，也听得十分无趣。这又引发了更大的口水战。
The main event itself occurred six years later at a dinner party Lally Weymouth had at her East 72nd Street apartment in honor of the publisher George Weidenfeld. Weymouth’s mother, Kay Graham, was there. So were Bill Paley, Jackie O, Pete Hamill, Barbara Walters, Lillian Hellman, William Styron, Susan Sontag, Jerry Brown, Sam Spiegel — and Mailer and Vidal. “When I saw Gore,” Mailer later told a reporter for The Washington Post, “I just felt like butting him in the head, so I did.” As Lennon writes, “Accounts vary, but it seems that Mailer threw a gin and tonic in Vidal’s face and bounced the glass off his head.” Mailer didn’t recall throwing a punch, but Vidal later told the columnist Liz Smith, “Then came the tiny fist!” Weymouth began to melt with anxiety. “God, this is awful; somebody do something!” At this juncture, Clay Felker, whose nose for theater could not be dimmed by alcohol, turned to her and said, “Shut up; this fight is making your party.”
二人的激战发生于六年后的一个晚宴上，那是拉里·韦茅斯 (Lally Weymouth)在她72街的公寓里为出版人乔治·韦登菲尔德(George Weidenfeld)举办的晚宴。韦茅斯的母亲凯·格雷厄姆(Kay Graham)也在（格雷厄姆和韦茅斯一家在美国传媒界声名显赫，格雷厄姆更是《华盛顿邮报》前发行人——译注）。在场的客人有比尔·佩利(Bill Paley)、杰姬·奥纳西斯（Jackie O，前肯尼迪总统夫人——译注）、皮特·哈米尔(Pete Hamill)、芭芭拉·沃尔特斯(Barbara Walters)、莉莉安·海尔曼(Lillian Hellman)、威廉·斯泰伦(William Styron)、苏珊·桑塔格(Susan Sontag)、杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)、萨姆·斯皮格尔(Sam Spiegel)，还有梅勒和维达尔。“我看见戈尔时，”梅勒后来告诉《华盛顿邮报》的一名记者，“我就想用头撞他，我就撞了。”列侬写道：“具体发生了什么，众说纷纭，但似乎是梅勒将一杯金汤力泼在了维达尔脸上，然后把杯子扔在他头上。”梅勒不记得挥了拳头，但维达尔后来告诉专栏作家丽兹·史密斯(Liz Smith)，“接着那小拳头就砸过来了。”韦茅斯急得要崩溃了，“我的天呢，这可坏了，谁快劝劝！”在这个节骨眼上，克雷·费尔克(Clay Felker)拦住她说（酒精也不能减弱他爱看戏的热情）：“快闭嘴！你的派对就指着这场架添彩呢！”
Mailer was constantly swinging for the fences, well into his late 50s and 60s. “The Executioner’s Song,” his reported but novelized saga of the life and death of the killer Gary Gilmore, won him his second Pulitzer Prize. He spent a decade working on “Ancient Evenings,” which became a best seller. But by the mid-’80s the whole idea of what the American writer should be had changed. The brawling, boozing, womanizing train wreck that had characterized so many of the Lost Generation and postwar writers had gone out of style, replaced by weedy, thin-haired minimalists who had learned their craft at writers’ colonies and lived in college towns teaching in master’s programs. Mailer’s bravura brand of life consumption was passé. What with feminism, gay rights and all the other incursions into the world Mailer wanted to surround himself with, Lennon says he lost his intellectual and political footing. The onetime liberal firebrand even drifted to the right in his later years. He wrote “Harlot’s Ghost,” a Pharaonic doorstop of admiration for the C.I.A. from the end of World War II to 1965. Worse, he cozied up to then Mayor Rudolph Giuliani for stopping “this sense of the poor encroaching on us.”
梅勒就这样放浪不羁地度过了他的50岁和60岁。他的长篇纪实性小说《刽子手之歌》(The Executioner’s Song)记述了杀人犯加里·吉尔摩(Gary Gilmore)的生死故事，为他赢得了第二个普利策奖。他十年著成的《古老的夜》(Ancient Evenings)，名列畅销书榜单。但是，到了80年代，关于美国作家的整个观念都发生了改变。那种打架、喝酒、玩女人如失控的火车一般的风格，曾定义了多少“迷失一代”和战后时期的作家，如今已经时过境迁，被那些体态瘦弱、头发稀疏的极简抽象派作家代替，他们在作家栖息地学成技艺，在大学城教些研究生课程。梅勒那种轰轰烈烈的活法已成往事。女权主义、同性恋权力和所有的新变化，正在冲击着梅勒的世界，（按照列侬的说法）他的文学和政治立场失去了支撑。这位昔日的绝对自由派在晚年一度被推向了右翼。他还创作了《哈洛特的鬼魂》(Harlot’s Ghost)，对“二战”至1965年期间的中央情报局大唱赞歌，长篇累牍，书厚到可以作门挡。更糟糕的是，他向当时的市长鲁道夫·朱利安尼(Rudolph Giuliani)示好，赞他阻止了“穷人侵犯我们的生活”。
As he moved into his later years, Mailer began to prefer the bourgeois comforts of home to the literary arena. To his kids, he became, says Lennon, “the gentle, accessible dad” they had wanted in their childhoods. He loved family dinners at the house in Brooklyn Heights, centered at the dining-room table that even during meals was piled high with mail, manuscripts, books, periodicals and newspapers.
步入晚年后，梅勒开始从文学舞台转向天伦之乐。在他的孩子面前，用列侬的话说，他变成了他们童年时想要的那个“温和、容易亲近的爸爸”。他喜欢在布鲁克林高地的家中和家人共享晚餐，那个餐桌的中间，即便在吃饭的时候也高高地堆满了信件、手稿、书籍、期刊和报纸。
The title, “A Double Life,” is a curious one, inasmuch as few members of the collective American creative engine have put so much of their private life out there for public consumption. But it goes to something more within than without. Lennon writes: “For Mailer it was incontestable that two people — not two halves of one — lived inside every human. As he put it: ‘Every man is a marriage within himself.’ The two people inhabiting him, referred to over and over as the saint and the psychopath, are linked by ‘the apparently silly compromise of an overfriendly anxious boyish Jewish intellectual, seductive and inhibited by turns.’ ”
书名“双重生活”引人发想，只因在驱动美国思想创新的名流中肯将私生活抛之公众任其消遣的人，实在寥寥无几。但其实，外表曝光事小，内心发掘事大。列侬写道：“对于梅勒而言，每个人心中都住着两个独立的主体（而不是一个二元的主体）是不争的事实。用他自己的话说，‘每个人自我的统一本身就是一场婚姻。’住在他内心的这两个自我，被一遍遍描述为‘圣徒’和‘疯子’的自我，是由那个‘过于友好、焦虑、孩子气的犹太裔知识分子’联系起来的，他‘时而放荡魅人，时而拘谨促狭，在二者之间傻里傻气地和解妥协。’”
At the New York Public Library’s Literary Lions dinner a few years before he died, Mailer was seated across from a local television anchor, something of a legend himself. The man leaned over the table and asked Norman if he was working on a book. He said he was. The anchor then said he didn’t have much time to read and so perhaps he could give him a one- or two-sentence summary of what it was about. Mailer didn’t say a word, but gave him a look that, as Wodehouse would say, could have opened a clam across a crowded room. Having once killed a story he wrote for Vanity Fair, I was familiar with the look.
在离世前几年的“纽约公共图书馆文狮晚宴”(the New York Public Library’s Literary Lions)上，梅勒与一位纽约颇有名气的电视主持人隔桌而坐。他欠身询问诺曼目前是否在写书。他答说是在写书。这位主持人又说自己没什么时间读书，请他可否用一两句话概括一下书的内容。梅勒一句话也不答，用眼睛盯着他，那眼神——用沃德豪斯(Wodehouse)的话说，可以隔着人群把屋子另一侧的蚌撬开。我曾经毙掉他为《名利场》写的一篇故事，对这个眼神十分熟悉。
Mailer never coasted, and he never sat back and let his fame do the work. Right up to the end, when his heart, his legs and his lungs had basically given up — he even had his teeth removed to avoid infection — Mailer remained in the game, always working on the next big book on the next big subject. The year he died, at 84 of acute renal failure, he published both “The Castle in the Forest,” about Hitler’s early childhood, and “On God,” his final book.
梅勒从来也没掉以轻心，凭着他的名气享清闲。直到最后，他的心脏、腿、肺都基本报废——连牙齿也为避免感染而被取掉之后，梅勒仍在战斗，仍在写着关于下一个重要题材的重要著作。因急性肾衰竭去世的那年，84岁的他还发表了关于希特勒幼年时期的著作《林中城堡》(The Castle in the Forest)，和他的收官之作《论上帝》(On God)。
There is a touching scene in “A Double Life” involving James Jones, who, like Mailer, saw his literary future forged in the caldron of war. As Mailer once said of the writer of “From Here to Eternity,” he had “the wisdom of an elegant redneck.” At a party at Jean Stein’s place in the late ’80s, Mailer bumped into Kaylie Jones, the author’s daughter. He told her: “I loved your father. He was the best friend I ever had, and I’ve missed him every day of my life.” Mailer recounted his last meeting with him some 20 years earlier. Jones was sitting alone at the bar at Elaine’s. Mailer came in and challenged him to step outside for a fistfight. Women won’t understand this, nor will most men, but fisticuffs were, says Lennon, Mailer’s way of “cementing a friendship.” Jones said simply: “I can’t, Norman, I’m sick. I’ve got a bum heart.” According to Kaylie, Mailer whispered: “There was no bravado, no self-pity, no anger in his words. Just a fact, and the total exhaustion in his eyes.” Jones died two months later. To the end of his life, Mailer regretted the challenge and the way it overshadowed his last moments with his friend. At the party, Mailer asked Kaylie if there was anything he could do for her. She said she had a novel coming out. Her mother, Gloria Jones, said she would perform a popular sex act on him if he gave her daughter a blurb. Norris was standing nearby and laughed at the offer; Mailer delivered on the quote he promised, but according to Lennon, passed on the quid pro quo.
在《双重生活》中，有这样一幕关于詹姆斯·琼斯(James Jones)的感人场景。与梅勒一样，琼斯也在战争的大熔炉里窥见了自己的文学前路。梅勒曾经评价这位《乱世忠魂》(From Here to Eternity)的作者，他拥有“一位高雅乡巴佬的智慧”。在80年代末于吉恩·斯泰因(Jean Stein)住所举办的一次聚会上，梅勒碰见了詹姆斯的女儿凯莉·琼斯(Kaylie Jones)，他告诉她：“我很爱你的父亲。他是我拥有过的最好的朋友。我生命中的每一天都思念他。”梅勒追忆了与他的最后一次相见，那是二十几年前的事了。当时琼斯正独自坐在是在伊莱恩餐厅(Elaine’s)的吧台边，梅勒走进来，邀他到店外赤拳一搏。女人是无法理解这个的，大多数男人估计也无法理解，拳斗是（用列侬的话说）梅勒“巩固友情”的方式。琼斯淡淡地说：“不行，诺曼，我身体不好，心脏也不行。”凯莉说，梅勒轻声告诉她，“他说得那么不卑不亢，声音里没有愤怒，只是平述着事实，眼睛里充满疲惫。”两个月后，琼斯去世了。梅勒至死对那次邀战都很后悔，觉得那为二人的最后一面相见蒙上了阴云。聚会上，梅勒问凯莉，有没有什么他可以帮得上她的地方。凯莉说，她正要出一本书。她的母亲格洛里亚·琼斯(Gloria Jones)说，如果他愿意帮她女儿宣传，她愿意许身给他。诺里斯就站在附近，听到这个提议笑出了声来。梅勒如约帮了凯莉，但是据列侬说，并没有索取“回报”。
As generous as he could be to younger writers, he “wanted his own pedestal” among his contemporaries, Lennon writes. And he certainly got one. But whether it’s made of sand or something more lasting is a question to be answered only by future generations. Mailer’s output was nothing if not admirable: tens of thousands of pages of thrusting, lapidary prose, both fiction and nonfiction; a New York Times best seller in each of seven consecutive decades; the myriad trophies and acclamations. Mailer’s books were big — and they got bigger as he got older. But as much as they were filled with big writing and big thoughts, they never made it into the lasting vessel of what we might call upper-middlebrow popular culture. Unlike his contemporaries Salinger, Capote, Styron, Roth, Vonnegut, Kerouac, Heller and others, he produced no single volume that captured and continues to capture the hearts and minds of successive generations. He had no “Catcher in the Rye,” no “Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” no “Sophie’s Choice,” no “Portnoy’s Complaint,” no “Slaughterhouse-Five,” no “On the Road,” no “Catch-22.” In almost 60 years of writing, he created no Holden Caulfield, no Holly Golightly, no Alexander Portnoy, no Dean Moriarty, no Yossarian or Milo Minderbinder. Even his old sparring partner Gore Vidal had Myra Breckinridge. If Mailer is associated with any characters in particular, they are more likely to be Gary Gilmore, the convicted murderer and central figure in “The Executioner’s Song,” and Jack Abbott, the killer he championed and helped free, and who, after publishing “In the Belly of the Beast,” went out and stabbed to death a 22-year-old on a New York street. In his review of Manso’s 1985 oral biography, Anthony Burgess said that inasmuch as the subject was still alive, the book was “no more than a kind of interim report. The subject of a life should sit still, or lie still.” Twenty-eight years on, Mailer, who moved through life like a dervish, is now lying still. Lennon’s glorious biography is the first of what one can only assume will be many final reports to come.
列侬写道，梅勒对年轻一代作家固然慷慨有嘉，但他“真正想得到的”是他在同龄作家中的“根基”。他显然是得到了。但是这个根基是沙做的还是什么更稳久的材料，还得由未来的读者们来回答。梅勒的创作无疑是令人称叹的：成千上万篇气势磅礴、文风清简的散文、故事；七十年间平均每十年出产一本“《纽约时报》畅销书”；奖杯欢呼应接不暇。梅勒的书皆是大作，其人越老，其书名气越大。但是，尽管这些书都是大作、大思想，但是也最终没有归入我们所谓的中上层大众文化之列。不同于与他同时代的其他作家，比如塞林格(Salinger)、卡波特(Capote)、斯泰伦(Styron)、罗斯(Roth)、冯内古特(Vonnegut)、凯鲁亚克(Kerouac)、海勒(Heller)等，梅勒并没有创作出抓住（并能一直抓住）新一代人思想和心灵的一本代表作。他没有写出自己的《麦田守望者》(Catcher in the Rye)，或者《蒂凡尼的早餐》(Breakfast at Tiffany’s)、《苏菲的抉择》(Sophie’s Choice)、《波特诺伊的抱怨》(Portnoy’s Complaint)、《第五号屠宰场》(Slaughterhouse-Five)、《在路上》(On the Road)或者是《第22条军规》(Catch 22)。在将近60年的写作中，他并没有创造出像霍莉·戈莱特丽(Holly Golightly)、亚历山大·波特诺伊(Alexander Portnoy)、迪恩·莫里亚蒂(Dean Moriarty)、约塞连(Yossarian)、米洛·明德宾德(Milo Minderbinder)这样的著名故事人物，连他的对手戈尔·维达尔笔下也有米拉·布来金里治(Myra Breckinridge)这个代表人物。如果说梅勒笔下有哪个人物尤其有名，那应该算是加里·吉尔摩，这个《刽子手之歌》中的杀人犯主人公。还有他极力拥护并促成其释放的杀人犯作家杰克·阿伯特(Jack Abbott)，此人在被释放后发表了《在野兽的腹中》(In the Belly of the Beast)，然后在纽约的街上刺杀了一个22岁的受害者。安东尼·伯吉斯(Anthony Burgess)在评论曼索1985年出版的口述传记时说，只要主要人物还活着，那么其书“也就算是期中报告。作为主要人物，他要么应该坐着别动，要么躺着别动”。28年后，梅勒如苦行僧般走完一生，静躺下来。列侬的辉煌传记想必是以后许多人都将要交上来的期末报告中的第一份。