Meatballs are not the kind of thing one would usually think of as quick-and-easy-dinner fare. All that rolling and frying can take forever, making meatballs a weekend project for a leisurely afternoon.
人们通常觉得肉丸不是能很快做好的正餐食物。揉丸子和炸丸子需要很长时间，人们通常会在闲暇的周末下午来进行这个“大工程”。
There are, however, shortcuts — if you can suppress your perfectionist urges. The first step involves giving up the idea of forming evenly round little balls, which takes time and care. Quickly pressed together blobs that may or may not roll when you nudge them taste just as good as smooth orbs. In fact, they might even taste better. Overworking ground meat when squeezing it into balls (or burgers) can make it tough. A side benefit of being fast and free is that you won’t have time to over-do it; just use a light touch. Forming a pound of ground meat into sloppy balls takes only about five minutes.
但是，如果你能克服自己追求完美的冲动，也有一些捷径。第一步是放弃揉成浑圆小球的想法，那样又费时又费心。很快揉好、可能滚不起来的肉丸和光滑的肉丸一样美味。实际上，前者可能比后者还美味。为了做成球状而过分揉捏碎肉，可能会把肉捏得很硬。所以快速、随意地揉丸子有个附带的好处：你没有时间过度加工，只要轻轻揉捏就可以了。把一磅碎肉捏成粗糙的小球只需要5分钟时间。
Then there’s the frying part. Traditionally, you’re supposed to stand over the pan turning each ball to golden brown on all sides. Don’t do it. Use the broiler instead. The meatballs will brown nearly as well, and it will free you up to make a garlicky tahini sauce and perhaps a salad to serve alongside.
然后就该炸丸子了。通常你需要站在煎锅边，把每个丸子煎至通体金黄。其实不用这样。用烤箱来做，肉丸也会变成差不多同样的金黄色。这还能让你腾出手做个蒜味芝麻酱，也许还能做个沙拉当配菜。
You can use this recipe as a template for whatever kind of ground meat you like. Lamb is earthy and works well with the creamy tahini sauce, reminiscent of a carnivore’s falafel. But beef, turkey, veal or pork are good substitutes. And all will make equally good blobs and none will be a project. Just a fast and filling dinner any night of the week.
不管做哪种肉丸子，你都可以用这个食谱当模板。羊肉是常见的质材，而且和奶油状的芝麻酱很搭配，有点像肉版的法拉费（falafel，一种中东素食，用鹰嘴豆做成素食丸子，油炸后配蔬菜和面饼——译注）。但是牛肉、火鸡肉、小牛肉和猪肉都是很好的替代品。所有这些肉都能做出同样好吃的肉丸，都不会太费事。这是一道随便哪个晚上都能快速做好的美味。
Title: Cumin Lamb Meatballs with Tahini Yogurt Dipping Sauce
食谱：美味羊肉丸
Yield: 2 to 4 servings
份量：2—4人
Time: 20 minutes
时间：20分钟
Ingredients:
配料：
3 garlic cloves, minced
3个蒜瓣，切碎
1 1/4 teaspoons coarse kosher salt, plus a pinch
1.25茶匙粗粒盐，另外再备一小点
1 pound ground lamb
1磅碎羊肉
2 teaspoons cumin seeds
2茶匙小茴香籽
1/2 teaspoon hot sauce, more for serving
1/2茶匙辣椒酱，再备一点供上菜用
Black pepper, to taste
黑胡椒，用量依口味而定
1/2 teaspoon chile powder
1/2茶匙辣椒粉
1 scallion, minced
1根大葱，切碎
2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley
2汤匙切碎的欧芹
Olive oil, for greasing pan
橄榄油，用来涂抹烤盘
1/4 cup plain yogurt
1/4杯原味酸奶
1/4 cup tahini
1/4杯芝麻酱
Fresh lemon juice, to taste
新鲜的柠檬汁，用量依口味而定
Method:
制作方法：
Heat broiler with an oven rack placed 3 inches below heat source.
1. 把烤箱加热，把烤架放在热源以下3英寸的地方。
Using a mortar and pestle or the flat side of a knife, make a paste with garlic and a pinch of salt. Put half the garlic paste in a large bowl and add lamb, 1 teaspoon of the salt, cumin, hot sauce, pepper, chile powder, scallion and 1 tablespoon parsley. Mix to combine.
2. 用研钵和研杵或者刀的钝面，把大蒜和一点粗盐拍成蒜泥。把一半蒜泥放进大碗里，加入羊肉、1茶匙盐、小茴香籽、辣酱、胡椒、辣椒粉、大葱和1汤匙欧芹。搅拌使之混合。
Shape lamb mixture into 1 1/2-inch meatballs and place on an oiled rimmed baking sheet. Make sure meatballs are spaced at least 1 inch apart. Transfer baking sheet to oven and broil meatballs for 8 to 10 minutes, or until browned on top and slightly pink on the inside.
3. 把羊肉混合物做成1.5英寸大小的肉丸，放到抹了油的带边烤盘上。要使肉丸之间保持1英寸的距离。把烤盘放到烤箱里，烤8至10分钟，或者烤至顶部金黄，里面微微粉红。
Meanwhile, combine yogurt, tahini, remaining garlic paste,1/4 teaspoon salt and the lemon juice to taste.
4. 等肉丸烤熟的时间，把酸奶、芝麻酱、剩下的蒜泥、1/4茶匙盐和柠檬汁搅拌到一起。
Transfer cooked meatballs to a serving platter or individual plates and serve with tahini sauce and extra hot sauce, if you like. Garnish with the remaining parsley.
5. 把烤好的肉丸移到上菜用的大浅盘或单独的几个盘子上，和芝麻酱以及另备的辣酱一起上桌。用剩下的欧芹装饰。