MY rape kit was created on the evening of Sunday, Jan. 12, 1992, at Magee-Womens Hospital in Pittsburgh. Tiny pieces of evidence were swabbed, plucked and combed from me: bits of me and, they hoped, bits of him, to be used in court one day to prove who had done this to me. Like many evidence kits collected at that time, it was not analyzed for DNA, and became part of what is called the backlog: untested rape kits across the country, which number at minimum in the tens of thousands.
我的强奸取证套件是在一个周六的傍晚制作的，当天是1992年1月12日，地点为匹兹堡的马吉女子医院(Magee-Womens Hospital)。从我的身体上擦、夹、梳出了许多细小的证据：其中一些属于我，还有一些，他们希望，是属于侵犯我的那个人的，他们希望有朝一日可以用后者在法庭上指证他。但和当时的许多取证套件一样，它未被用于DNA检测，而是成了所谓“积压”证据的一部分：也就是在美国各地提取到的未经检测的强奸取证套件，数量至少有几万。
I had been raped by a stranger. This was not unusual; according to a Pittsburgh Post-Gazette article from 1990, in only “about half” of Pittsburgh’s rapes was the assailant known to the victim. My evidence was not analyzed for DNA even though the technology was available, not because my case was deemed unworthy of the time, money and effort, but because there was no one to whom to compare the results.
我是被一名陌生人强奸的。这样的事情并不罕见；《匹兹堡邮报》(Pittsburgh Post-Gazette)1990年刊发的一篇文章称，在匹兹堡发生的强奸案中，只有“大约一半”的受害人认识袭击者。即便已经有了相关技术，他们还是没对我的证物做DNA检测，这并不是因为我的案子不值得花费时间、金钱和精力，而是因为不知道去和谁的检测结果做比对。
It was only in the late ’90s that the F.B.I. database of criminal DNA samples now known as the Combined DNA Index System (Codis) became fully operational. Until then, DNA evidence from rapes without suspects was not useful. Nevertheless, it was collected and stored, with hope for the future.
直到1990年代末，联邦调查局的犯罪分子DNA样本数据库——现在叫DNA联合索引系统(Combined DNA Index System，简称Codis)——才开始全面运行。那之前，在无法确定嫌疑人的强奸案中，DNA证据是没有用处的。尽管如此，它们还是被采集和保存了下来，希望有朝一日能用得上。
I badgered the Pittsburgh police sex assault unit about my case every few years for more than two decades. They finally tested my kit in 2013. It took months and cost the county $4,000, but it proved more than worthwhile — a match was made with an ex-convict who had recently been arrested in Brooklyn, and prosecution was mobilized.
在长达20多年时间里，每隔几年，我就要和匹兹堡警方负责性侵的部门交涉一番。最终，他们在2013年检测了我的取证套件。该检测历时数月，花了国家4000美元，但事实证明它物超所值——袭击者的DNA和一个最近在布鲁克林被捕的刑满释放人员相匹配，此人目前已经被提起诉讼。
While I was frustrated that I had to fight to get my kit out of storage, I understand that my old rape was competing with murders and with more recent rapes. There weren’t the resources to do more without compromising the current caseload. I’m just deeply grateful that my kit was created in the first place, and that it was kept so well: not just physically well, so as to be still testable after all that time, but also with an intact chain of custody that protected its status as legitimate evidence.
我必须拼命争取，才能把自己的取证套件从储藏室里拿出来，对此我的确感到沮丧。但我明白，我的这桩陈年强奸案，是在和谋杀案以及新近发生的强奸案竞争的。资源有限，他们难以在不影响手头案件侦办进程的情况下为我做更多。我只是深深地庆幸，有人在案件发生之初为我制作了取证套件，而且它被保存得这么好：不仅在物理意义上相当完好，确保过了这么多年仍然可以对其进行检测，而且有着完整的保管链条，从而保全了它作为合法证据的资格。
There’s a justified impression that the backlog of untested rape kits is, at least in part, a result of indifference on the part of the police and others in authority dismissing rape as unworthy of prosecution. But this part of the backlog, made of pre-Codis kits like mine, was a result of forward-thinking and diligent police and medical personnel who cared so much about rape that they collected and kept evidence that they, at the time without a database to match up to, would not themselves get to take to court.
有一种看法不无道理：未被检测的强奸取证套件大量“积压”，至少在某种程度上是因为警方和当局的其他人等对强奸案冷漠以待，觉得不值得为此提起检控。但“积压”中由前Codis时代的取证套件——譬如我的套件——所组成的这部分，却是有着超前思维的警察和医务人员辛勤工作的结晶，他们对强奸案极为关注，认真搜集和保存了证物，即便当时没有数据库可供比对，不可能将其呈上法庭。
In 2015, grants from the federal government and the Manhattan district attorney’s office totaling $79 million were aimed at testing the national backlog. But it’s still common for kits, especially older kits, to fall through the cracks. In layman’s understanding, “backlog” refers to “all untested kits,” but in some jurisdictions it can refer only to kits that have made it into the crime lab testing queue and not yet been gotten to. Evidence kits that went directly to storage can be left out of these numbers entirely.
2015年，联邦政府和曼哈顿地区检察官办公室总共拨款7900万美元，用于对全国各地积压的取证套件进行检测。但取证套件无人理会的情况仍然很常见，年代较为久远的套件尤其如此。照外行人的理解，“积压”指的是“所有未经检测的套件”，但在某些地方，它可能特指已经被纳入犯罪实验室检测队列，但尚未被检测的套件。直接被送进储藏室的取证套件则完全被排除在外。
Even when crime labs intend to include stored kits in their numbers, that is not necessarily easy to do. A lab can test only those kits that the police submit to it. In Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for example, where my kit was tested and which was granted $254,000 last year to clear its backlog, evidence storage is split among many different authorities: the county police, the Pittsburgh police and small police jurisdictions for more than a hundred municipalities outside Pittsburgh. The Allegheny County lab requires the initiative of dozens of different forces just to count the kits. The grant money is providing the means to get known kits tested. It’s my hope that it will also, in every jurisdiction that accepts the money, provide the impetus to uncover the older kits that could so easily be overlooked.
即便犯罪实验室打算把这些套件纳入检测队列，也未见得能轻易做到。实验室只能检测警方提交的套件。举个例子，我的套件是在宾夕法尼亚州阿勒格尼县检测的，该县去年得到25.4万美元拨款，用于“清理积压”，但在这里，证物保存牵扯到许多个不同的机构：阿勒格尼县警方、匹兹堡警方，以及管理匹兹堡之外100多个城市的那些小警署。单是对套件进行清点，阿勒格尼县的实验室就需要得到数十个不同机构的首肯。拨下来的款项为已知套件的检测工作提供了资金支持。我还希望所有得到拨款的地方都能受到激励，让那些年代久远、很容易被忽视的套件重见天日。
Some of these pre-Codis kits will be from cases past their statutes of limitations. Depending on details, they may or may not be prosecutable now. I can’t speak for any victims other than myself, but, for me, the identification of my attacker was by itself a significant event in my life, separate from the prosecution that followed. To learn who he is was important. To see my case at last taken as far as it could go by the police and prosecutors was important. It turned out to be too late for some things, but it was not too late to acknowledge me, to respect me and to help me.
前Codis时代的套件很多都来自过了诉讼时效的案件。现在，视具体情况不同，这些案子有的还可以起诉，有的则不然。我不能代表任何一个受害者发言，除了我自己，但对我来说，且不论随后的诉讼，单是确认袭击者本身，便是我生命中意义重大的事件。知道他是什么人，这很重要。看到警方和检察官至少在竭尽所能地办理我的案子，这很重要。有些事或许为时已晚，但关注我，尊重我，帮助我，这些永远都不会太迟。
When the backlog grants were announced last year, Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch said: “For anyone who has felt isolated and afraid, left out and left behind as a result of a sexual crime, our message is clear: We will not forget you. We will not abandon you. You are not alone.” This is important to say to every victim, not just those whose cases can be prosecuted; not just those whose evidence is easier to find; not just those with evidence already in line at the lab.
去年，拨款“清理积压”的消息传出时，司法部长洛蕾塔·E·林奇(Loretta E. Lynch)曾说：“对任何一个因为遭遇性犯罪而感到孤立、害怕，感到被排斥、被遗忘的人而言，我们所传递的信息非常明确：我们不会抛弃你。你并不孤单。”这句话对每个受害人都很重要，不仅是当局会就其案件提起指控的那些人，不仅是其案件的取证没那么困难的那些人，不仅是其案件的证据已经在犯罪实验室排队等待检测的那些人。