The discovery of sunken gold conjures up visions of instant riches: Swiss bank accounts and lazy afternoons on faraway beaches, daiquiris in hand.
沉没黄金的发现让人想起了一夜暴富的景象：瑞士银行账户，以及遥远的海滩上午后闲散的时光，手里拿着代基里鸡尾酒。
But the quest to salvage the S.S. Central America — which went down in 1857 in a hurricane off South Carolina carrying 425 souls, as well as thousands of coins, bars and nuggets of California gold — has produced a quarter-century of broken dreams and legal nightmares.
但历经25年，打捞“中美洲号”(S.S. Central America)的探索行动却致使梦想破碎，并带来了法律噩梦。1857年，该船在南卡罗莱纳州附近的海域遭遇飓风袭击，并因此沉没，当时船上载有425人，以及数千加利福尼亚金币、金条和金砖。
The bones of the side-wheeler were discovered in 1988, nearly a mile and a half down. The finder hauled up glittering coins and boasted of treasure worth $1 billion.
1988年，相关人员在海底1.5英里（约合2.4公里）处发现了这艘明轮船的船体。发现者打捞起了闪闪发亮的金币，夸耀发现了价值10亿美元（约合62亿元人民币）的财宝。
But paralysis ensued as waves of insurers and angry investors filed rival claims. Recovery of the shipwreck languished as courtrooms echoed with charges of fraud. In 2012, the finder became a fugitive.
但随着保险公司和愤怒的投资者争相提出索赔，一切都陷入瘫痪。随着法庭内响起诈骗罪的指控声，沉船的打捞工作停滞不前。2012年，沉船的发现者成了一名逃犯。
Now, with the legal obstacles cleared, a private company working with a court-appointed receiver has become the first to revisit the shipwreck in two decades. It is, the team was delighted to find, still heavy with treasure.
如今，随着法律障碍的清除，一家私人公司与法院指派的接收方进行合作，成为20年来首个再度探访沉船的打捞团队。他们高兴地发现，该船仍存有大量财宝。
On April 15, the company, Odyssey Marine Exploration, lowered a robot into the depths of the Atlantic Ocean and hauled up five gold bars weighing 66 pounds — worth about $1.2 million as metal and more as artifacts. That step, the company says, opened a new chapter in the saga of the Central America that will include raising the rest of the gold and exploring the deteriorating shipwreck. “We want to show that it can be done right,” Gregory P. Stemm, Odyssey’s chief executive, said in an interview. “It’s a great opportunity.”
4月15日，奥德赛海洋探索公司(Odyssey Marine Exploration)将一个机器人放至海底，并打捞出五块金条，总重66磅（约合30公斤），作为金属，其价值约为120万美元，作为古董，其价值更高。该公司表示，这为有关“中美洲号”的传说开启了新篇章，未来将会打捞剩余黄金，探查这艘逐渐损毁的沉船。“我们想要证明，能以一种正确的方式完成这份工作，”奥德赛公司的首席执行官格雷戈里·P·斯特姆(Gregory P. Stemm)接受采访时表示。“这是一个非常好的机会。”
When it sank, the Central America was steaming toward New York with a cargo meant to strengthen the city’s banks. The 280-foot vessel was carrying so much gold — commercial and personal riches from the California fields estimated at three tons, as well as a rumored secret federal shipment of 15 tons — that its loss contributed to the Panic of 1857, considered the first global financial crisis.
“中美洲号”在载着用于增强银行储备的货物朝纽约快速行进的途中沉没。由于这艘280英尺（约合85米）长的船舶载有大量黄金，沉船事件在一定程度上导致了1857年的经济恐慌——它被认为是第一场全球金融危机。据估计，船上载有三吨产自加利福尼亚金矿的黄金——有的是商品，有的属于个人财富，传闻称，船上还有联邦政府秘密运送的15吨黄金。
From the start, the locus of the recovery drama has been Columbus, Ohio — a landlocked city not known for treasure hunters. It is, however, home to the Battelle Memorial Institute, a private contractor specializing in science and technology.
这场打捞戏最初在俄亥俄州的哥伦布上演，这不是一个以寻宝而闻名的内陆城市。但这里是专门研究相关科技的私人承包公司——巴特尔纪念研究所(Battelle Memorial Institute)的所在地。
Thirty years ago, Thomas G. Thompson, a plucky Ohio native who was a young engineer at Battelle, began wooing investors with dreams of finding the Central America. Soon, the Columbus America Discovery Group was formed to finance the hunt, including a robot with lights, cameras, arms and claws.
30年前，大胆、年轻的托马斯·G·汤普森(Thomas G. Thompson)在巴特尔公司担任工程师，这名俄亥俄州本地人开始宣扬寻找“中美洲号”的美梦，以获得投资者的支持。很快，他们成立了哥伦布美国发现集团(Columbus America Discovery Group)，为寻宝行动融资，其设备包括一个配有灯、照相机、手臂和爪钩的机器人。
The team hit pay dirt in September 1988: Piles of gold coins and ingots lay scattered across the ship’s rotting timbers, and overnight, the investors became millionaires — in theory, at least.
1988年9月，该团队找到了宝藏：他们发现成堆的金币和金锭散布在船上腐烂的木材中，一夜之间，投资者至少在理论上变成了百万富翁。
In all, the team lifted up about two tons of gold. If sold today as pure metal, it would fetch $76 million.
该团队总共打捞起大约两吨的黄金。如果现在把它们当作纯金属出售，可以卖到7600万美元。
But as news of the sensational find went public, the group’s investors were not the only ones paying attention. Claims to the fortune came from an order of Catholic monks, a Texas oil millionaire, and Columbia University, where an oceanographer had provided Mr. Thompson with sonar imagery of what turned out to be the shipwreck. And scores of insurance companies insisted that the treasure was rightfully theirs because of claims paid more than a century earlier.
但随着这个引起轰动的消息为大众所知，它吸引的不仅仅是该集团的投资者。一个天主教修道会、德克萨斯州的一个石油富翁，以及哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)都要求分一杯羹。哥伦比亚大学的一名海洋学家为汤普森提供的声纳影像最终证明是沉船的影像。一些保险公司坚称，由于他们一个多世纪前支付了赔偿金，他们是这些财宝的合法拥有者。
Thus began a legal battle that kept the gold locked away. The disputes crippled Mr. Thompson’s ability to raise new funds, and treasure. It was not until about 2000, when insurers were awarded $5 million in gold, that his hands were untied. He sold much of the remaining treasure that his team had recovered, making a reported $52 million.
由此引发的法律纠纷致使这些黄金被扣押。纠纷影响了汤普森进一步筹集资金、打捞财宝的行动。直到2000年前后，保险公司获得了价值500万美元的黄金，他才不再受限制。汤普森出售了其团队发现的财宝的剩余部分，据说获利5200万美元。
But his 251 investors got nothing. In 2005, some of them sued. John G. McCoy, a Columbus mogul who had invested $219,000, told Forbes in 2006, “I think he was dishonest from the word go.” Mr. Thompson avoided courtrooms, always speaking through intermediaries.
然而，他的251名投资人却血本无归。2005年，有部分投资人提出了诉讼。来自哥伦布的大亨、投入了21.9万美元的约翰·G·麦科伊(John G. McCoy)在2006年对《福布斯》(Forbes)杂志表示，“我认为，他从一开始就不老实。”汤普森拒不出庭，他总是通过调解人传话。
One dispute centered on 500 coins that had seemingly vanished. In a 2012 filing, Mr. Thompson said they had gone into a trust in Belize, and in August of that year — when he failed to show up for a hearing — a federal judge ordered his arrest.
有一起纠纷的核心是500枚似乎消失无踪的金币。在2012年提交的一份文件中，汤普森说，这些金币落入了伯利兹某个信托机构的手中，同年8月，当他未能出席法庭听诉时，一名联邦法官对他下发了逮捕令。
It turned out that Mr. Thompson and his assistant, Alison Antekeier, for years had lived in Vero Beach, Fla., in a mansion set on four acres. By the time federal marshals went there to arrest Mr. Thompson, they had fled.
多年来，汤普森和他的助手艾莉森·安特凯伊尔(Alison Antekeier)一直住在佛罗里达州韦罗海滩的一栋占地四英亩的庄园里。结果，等联邦法警赶到当地逮捕汤普森时，他们已经逃走了。
An important part of the legal drama was resolved that month, when Judge Patrick E. Sheeran of the Court of Common Pleas in Franklin County, Ohio, named as receiver Ira O. Kane, a Columbus lawyer and businessman whose task was to recover as much gold as possible for the benefit of creditors and duped investors.
就在当月，这出法律大戏的一个重要环节被解决了，当时，俄亥俄州富兰克林县普通法院法官帕特里克·E·希兰(Patrick E. Sheeran)指定哥伦布市律师兼商人艾拉·O·凯恩(Ira O. Kane)为金币的接收者，凯恩的责任是为债权人和上当的投资人尽可能多地追回黄金。
This March, Mr. Kane picked Odyssey — based in Tampa, Fla., and publicly traded — to resume the hunt.
今年3月，凯恩选择了总部位于佛罗里达州坦帕市的上市公司奥德赛来重启寻宝行动。
The stakes? Mr. Thompson recovered 532 gold bars and some 7,500 gold coins whose total face value, in 1857 dollars, was $1,126,000. Experts hired by Mr. Kane estimated the likely face value of the remaining gold at $760,000, but put the range at $343,000 to $1,373,000. In other words, more than half the treasure could still be sitting at the bottom of the sea, at least in theory.
赌注有多大？汤普森捞到了532根金条和7500枚左右的金币，按1857年的美元计算，这些黄金的面值总额为112.6万美元。凯恩雇佣的专家估计，剩余黄金的价值可能为76万美元，不过，他们把价值额度定在了34.3万美元到137.3万美元之间。换言之，可能还有过半的财宝依然躺在海底，至少理论上是如此。
Mark D. Gordon, Odyssey’s president, told investors in March that the remaining treasure, thought to be mostly gold coins, would fetch at least $85 million if sold for its value to collectors. On eBay, $20 coins from the original haul sell for up to $26,500.
奥德赛的董事长马克·D·戈登(Mark D. Gordon)在今年3月对投资者说，其余财宝如果照价卖给收藏者的话，能够至少获得8500万美元，据信这些财宝大部分都是金币。在eBay网站上，从最初那批财宝中流出的币值20美元的金币，售价高达2.65万美元。
Helping direct the April 15 operation was Bob Evans, the chief scientist and historian of the Recovery Limited Partnership, one of Mr. Thompson’s insolvent companies and the legal owner of the shipwreck. “I’m elated,” Mr. Evans said in an interview. “I’m fulfilling my dream.”
鲍勃·埃文斯(Bob Evans)协助指导了4月15日的打捞行动，他是打捞有限合伙公司(Recovery Limited Partnership)的首席科学家和历史学家，该公司是汤普森的已破产公司中的一家，也是失事船只的合法所有者。埃文斯在采访中说，“我兴奋不已。我正在实现自己的梦想。”