BEIJING — Looking back, the titles of his books said it all.
北京——如今回想起来，他那些书的标题说明了一切。
In the preface to his 2010 novel “The Guilty Secret,” the Chinese author Liu Yongbiao expressed his desire to write a suspense-filled detective story about an alluring female writer who dodges arrest despite committing a string of murders.
中国作家刘永彪在自己2010年的小说《难言之隐》的前言中说，自己想写一个悬疑侦探故事，讲述一位美女作家杀了很多人，却没被警方抓获。
“I came up with the idea after reading some detective novels and watching crime shows and movies,” Mr. Liu wrote at the time. “The working title is: ‘The Beautiful Writer Who Killed.’”
“早在看那些推理（侦破）小说和影视剧时，就产生了一连串灵感，有写一个可向影视方面发展的小说的强烈愿望，”刘永彪当时写道。“题目也初步拟定《身背数条人命的美女作家》。”
But what was assumed to be a fictional crime story took a turn into reality last week when Mr. Liu, 53, was arrested on accusations of bludgeoning four people to death 22 years ago.
但是上周，这个被认为是虚构的犯罪故事发生了转折，53岁的刘永彪因被指控22年前用钝器击打他人致死而被逮捕。
According to The Paper, a news website, Mr. Liu was arrested early Friday at his home in Nanling County in the eastern province of Anhui.
据新闻网站澎湃称，周五早晨，刘永彪在安徽省东部的南陵县家中被逮捕。
“I’ve been waiting for you here all this time,” Mr. Liu reportedly said to the police when they arrived at his house.
报道称，警察到他家时，他这样对警察说：“我在这里等你们到现在。”
The gruesome killings took place at a hostel in Huzhou, in neighboring Zhejiang Province, on a November night in 1995, according to a local security official quoted by the newspaper China Daily. Two men who spoke with Anhui accents checked in at the hostel reportedly with the intention of robbing other guests, the official said.
据《中国日报》采访的一位当地公安官员称，残忍的杀戮发生在1995年11月的一个夜晚，地点是在毗邻的浙江省湖州市的一个小旅馆。据报道，这位官员称，两名操安徽口音的男子在一家小旅馆登记入住，意欲抢劫其他旅客。
But when one guest, surnamed Yu, caught them stealing, the two men were said to have killed the guest. To cover up their crimes, they then beat to death the couple that ran the hostel as well as their 13-year-old grandson, according to China Daily.
但是，当旅客于某发现他们偷盗后，两人杀死了于某。之后，为掩盖罪行，他们打死了经营旅馆的夫妇以及他们13岁的孙子。
The police in Anhui opened an investigation into the killings, but the trail soon went cold.
安徽省警方对这起谋杀案展开了调查，但很快失去了线索。
“The biggest challenge was the suspects and the victims had no previous relationship,” said Xu Zhicheng, one of the local investigators, according to The Paper. “It was very difficult for us to follow the vine to find the melon.”
 “主要是嫌疑人跟受害人没有任何关系，”据澎湃报道称，当地办案民警徐志成说。“我们很难顺藤摸瓜地去找。”
During his more than three-decade long career, Mr. Liu found modest success as a writer. In 2013, he was accepted into the official China Writers’ Association, and he was the recipient of a prestigious local literary prize, according to The Paper. But Legal Evening News, a Chinese newspaper, reported that Mr. Liu told the police that, for years after the killings, he found it difficult to sleep at night because of what he had done.
在30多年的漫长事业中，刘永彪作为作家小有名气。据澎湃称，2013年，他得以进入中国作家协会，还曾获得当地的一个著名文学奖。不过，《法制晚报》报道称，刘永彪对警方说，杀人之后有很多年，他几乎每天夜不能寐。
Equipped with new DNA technology, the police reopened the case in June. They began to zero in on Mr. Liu and his suspected accomplice, a man surnamed Wang. Several hours after taking Mr. Liu into custody, the police found and arrested Mr. Wang, now 64, in Shanghai.
警方在掌握了新的DNA技术之后，于今年6月重新开始调查此案。他们开始将目标锁定在刘永彪和同案嫌疑人汪某身上。刘永彪被捕数小时后，警方在上海找到并抓获了现年64岁的汪某。
Chen Hongyue, one of the arresting officers, told The Paper that by the time the police came to take Mr. Liu away, the writer had already prepared a one-page letter to give to his wife.
执行抓捕的一名警察陈红跃在接受澎湃采访时称，警察要把刘永彪带走时，这位作家已经准备好了一封打算交给妻子的信，信只有一页。
“I have been waiting for this day for 20 years and now it has finally come to an end,” he reportedly wrote. “Now I can free myself of this spiritual torment I’ve had for so long.”
“20多年来，我一直在等这一天，今天终于有了一个结果了，”据报道称，他在信中写道。“我终于可以摆脱一直以来的精神折磨。”