A WELL-MAINTAINED SIX-BEDROOM VICTORIAN HOUSE IN SOUTHWEST LONDON
伦敦西南区，一栋状况良好的六居室维多利亚别墅
$3.62 MILLION (2.35 MILLION POUNDS)
362万美元（235万磅，约合人民币2301万元）
This semidetached brick house, unusually wide for a Victorian townhouse at 34 feet, is in the Clapham neighborhood of southwest London. At 2,930 square feet, it has four reception rooms and six bedrooms flanking a central hallway on three floors. The home, which dates to the late 1800s, has been well maintained through the decades, and retains many of its original Victorian features, including seven fireplaces, ornate cornices and pine floors, said Alix Stuart-Bruges, a director at Douglas & Gordon, the brokerage with the listing.
这栋半独立式的砖砌房屋位于伦敦市西南区的克拉彭(Clapham)，其建筑宽度为维多利亚式联排别墅不常见的34英尺（约10米）。该房屋面积2930平方英尺（约272平方米），有4间会客室和6间卧室，分上下三层排列在中央走廊的两侧。据该房产的经纪公司Douglas & Gordon的主管阿历克斯·斯图尔特-布鲁热斯(Alix Stuart-Bruges)说，这栋可追溯至19世纪晚期的住宅多年来维护得当，房屋中留有许多原来的维多利亚特色，包括七座壁炉、雕花上楣和松木地板。
“This home is your kind of archetypal old English gentleman’s house, which is ripe for somebody to move in and make their own,” she said.
“这栋房屋就是你想要的那种典型的老派英国绅士住宅，而且一切都准备好了，只等有人搬进来自由自在地生活，”她说。
A pathway through a front yard leads to the main door, with decorative original stained-glass windows. Off a foyer to the left are a living room and a family room, and to the right are a study and a formal dining room. All the rooms have fireplaces, typically cast-iron insets with colorfully tiled ornate surrounds, except the family room, which has a fireplace converted into a cupboard that could be easily changed back, Ms. Stuart-Bruges said. 
有一条小径穿过屋前的院子通往大门，门两边是最初就有的几扇装饰性的彩色玻璃窗。走过一间门厅，左边是一间客厅和一间家庭娱乐室，右边是一间书房和一间正式的餐厅。所有的房间里都有壁炉，大部分都是铸铁炉膛带有彩色瓷砖的雕花炉台，只有这间家庭娱乐室不一样，这里的一座壁炉被改成了碗柜，但很容易再改回来，斯图尔特-布鲁热斯说。
In the back of the house, beyond a staircase in the foyer, is a kitchen, a half-bathroom and a conservatory used as a dining area. The kitchen has wooden cabinets and granite countertops. The conservatory opens to a backyard that is nearly 2,000 square feet, with a stone patio. The yard has been landscaped with shrubs and flowering plants, Ms. Stuart-Bruges said.
在这栋房屋后侧，也即门厅内楼梯的另一边，有一间厨房、一间卫生间和一间用作餐厅的温室。这间厨房里有木质的橱柜和花岗岩的台面。这间温室通往一处面积将近2000平方英尺（约186平方米）并带有一个石砌露台的后院。这个院子已经做了景观美化，种了些灌木类植物和开花类植物，斯图尔特-布鲁热斯说。
On the second floor are four bedrooms and two full bathrooms. The master bedroom, adjacent master bathroom and two other bedrooms have fireplaces. A staircase leads to the third floor, which has two bedrooms, a bathroom with a shower and a large storage area in the eaves. The house also has a small cellar. There is no off-street parking, though the front yard could be converted for parking, Ms. Stuart-Bruges said. The current owners choose to obtain a permit for on-street parking, which is readily available, she said.
二楼有四间卧室和两间全功能的浴室。这间主卧、旁边的主卧浴室和另外两间卧室内都有壁炉。有一段楼梯通往三楼，那里有两间卧室和一间带淋浴设施的浴室，浴室屋檐下还有一个大储物区。这栋房屋里还有一间小地下室。斯图尔特-布鲁热斯说，这栋房屋的街道旁边没有停车的地方，不过可以把前院改造一下用来停车。她说，现任业主选择申请在街上停车，目前已经获得许可。
The house is on Rodenhurst Road, which is lined with similar Victorians and is in an area called Abbeville Village, surrounding Abbeville Road, Ms. Stuart-Bruges said. The area has been gentrified in the last 15 years, and homes that were converted to apartments in the 1940s and 1950s have mostly been turned back into single-families, she said.
据斯图尔特-布鲁热斯说，这栋房屋坐落在罗登赫斯特路(Rodenhurst Road)上，这条路的两边排列着一些与该房屋相似的维多利亚别墅，而且此处位于一个名为“阿布维尔村”(Abbeville Village)的地方，周围环绕着阿布维尔路。她说，该区域最近15年来经过了士绅化，那些在二十世纪四五十年代被改建为公寓楼的住宅，现在大部分都恢复成了单户的住宅。
This house is within walking distance of Clapham Common, a park of about 220 acres, and two metro stations on the Northern Line: Clapham Common and Clapham South. The Stockwell metro station, on both the Victoria Line and the Northern Line, is also nearby, Ms. Stuart-Bruges said. The trip to central London runs about 30 to 40 minutes. Both Heathrow and Gatwick airports are within an hour’s drive and are also accessible by public transportation.
在这栋房屋的步行范围内有一座面积大约220英亩（约89公顷）的公园“克拉彭公共区”(Clapham Common)，还有两个北线上的地铁站：克拉彭公共区站和克拉彭南站。斯图尔特-布鲁热斯说，维多利亚线与南线的接驳站斯托克韦尔地铁站(Stockwell)也在附近。从这里去伦敦市中心区大约要30至40分钟。希思罗机场(Heathrow)和盖特威客机场(Gatwick)都在一小时的车程范围之内，另外也有公共交通路线可以到达。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
A five-year surge in home prices in London led to historic highs in early 2014, though the market softened temporarily in the second half of the year after local elections in the spring, the Scottish independence referendum in September and changes in the national stamp duty, Ms. Stuart-Bruges said.
据斯图尔特-布鲁热斯说，伦敦市的房价连续5年上涨，导致了2014年初春的历史新高，但过了春季的地方选举、九月份的苏格兰独立公投以及全国房地产税的变更之后，该年下半年的房地产暂时略显疲软。
Prices over all are at the same highs they reached last year, which is motivating many home buyers, including those from foreign countries, to look outside prime central London, she said. Some popular areas are Clapham, Balham, Fulham, Hammersmith and Battersea. Even formerly gritty areas like Brixton, which is now gentrifying, are becoming trendy.
她说，现在的房价整体上处于和去年一样的高度，这让许多购房者深受鼓舞，其中包括那些来自国外、想在伦敦市中心区周围买房的人。一些热门的地方包括克拉彭区、巴勒姆区(Balham)、富勒姆区(Fulham)、哈默史密斯区(Hammersmith)和巴特西区(Battersea)。即便是之前略逊一筹的地方，比如正在经历士绅化的布里克斯顿区(Brixton)，现在也变成了潮流所在。
“If you aren’t quite the billionaire who wants to live in a 10-million-pound flat in Knightsbridge, and you want a home and to send your children to the local schools, you’ve got a far better quality of life and ability to build a social life somewhere like Clapham,” Ms. Stuart-Bruges said.
斯图尔特-布鲁热斯说，“如果你不是那种想住在奈茨布里奇(Knightsbridge)千万英镑公寓里的亿万富翁，而只是想要个家，并能送孩子去当地的学校读书，那么在克拉彭这样的地方，你不但可以过上更优质的生活，而且能建立自己的社交圈。”
The ability to rent properties more easily in these slightly less expensive neighborhoods is attracting some buyers, including foreigners, said Jeremy Owen, the manager of the Clapham South branch of Aspire, a brokerage in southwest London. “Rental prices in Kensington” and other central London neighborhoods “are a lot higher, so that diminishes the number who can afford to rent there,” he said.
伦敦西南区的一家房地产经纪公司Aspire的克拉彭南区分公司经理杰里米·欧文(Jeremy Owen)说，在这些房价没有那么贵的社区中房子更容易出租，也吸引了一些购房者，包括一些外国买家。“房地产的租赁价格在肯辛顿区(Kensington)”和伦敦中心地带的其他社区“都要高得多，所以能在那里租得起房子的人也少了许多，”他说。
Whereas homes on the best streets in a central neighborhood like Chelsea cost 2,000 pounds, or about $3,080, or more per square foot, those on the best streets in Clapham can be had for roughly half that, said Caspar Harvard-Walls, a partner of Black Brick Property Solutions, an agency that represents buyers.
鉴于在某个诸如切尔西的中心社区中，那些坐落在最佳街道旁的房屋，每平方英尺的价格达到了2000磅（每平方米约合人民币21万元），或3080美元左右，而克拉彭区最佳街道旁的房屋可能只有该价格的大约一半，一家代表购房者的地产业务代理“黑砖房地产方案公司”的合伙人卡斯帕·哈佛-沃尔斯(Caspar Harvard-Walls)说。
“It’s a significant difference,” he said. “If you take a budget of 2 million pounds, in Clapham a buyer would be able to buy themselves a pretty good four- to five-bedroom family house with a garden.” In Chelsea, “that family would probably be in a 1,000-square-foot two- or three-bedroom apartment.”
“这是一个很重要的不同点，”他说。“如果预算是200万英镑（约合人民币1945万元），那么在克拉彭区，买家会买到一栋非常漂亮、有四五间卧室并带有花园的单户家庭式住宅。”但在切尔西区，“同样一家人可能会住在一套面积1000平方英尺（约93平方米）且只有两三间卧室的公寓里。”
Homes in Clapham range from just over 1 million pounds, or $1.54 million, up to 10 million pounds, or about $15.4 million, though the average is between 1 million pounds and 2 million pounds, agents said. Home prices in Clapham have risen by about 10 percent to 15 percent over the course of the last three years, depending on the area, said Camilla Dell, a managing partner with Black Brick Property Solutions.
据地产代理人说，克拉彭区的房屋价格从100英镑（或154万美元，约合人民币972万人民币）出头到将近1000万英镑（或1540万美元，约合人民币9724万元）不等，虽然房地产的均价介于100万磅与200万磅之间。黑砖房地产方案公司的一位运营合伙人卡米拉·戴尔(Camilla Dell)说，近三年来，根据不同的位置，克拉彭区的房价已经上涨了大约10%至15%。
Much of Clapham has the character of a village, in particular the Abbeville area where this home is, with small independent shops, cafes and food markets. The neighborhood also tends to attract families with its ample selection of good public and private schools, agents said.
克拉彭区的大部分地方仍然很有乡村特色，尤其是这栋房屋所在的阿布维尔区，这里有许多独立的小店铺、咖啡馆和食品超市。据代理人说，由于有众多优质的公立与私立学校可以选择，该社区对有孩子的家庭是有相当吸引力的。
“Northcote Road, which is one of the main ‘High Streets’ of Clapham, is known as ‘nappy valley,’ because it’s such a family-friendly area,” Mr. Harvard-Walls said.
哈佛-沃尔斯说，“克拉彭的主干道之一诺斯科特路(Northcote Road)是众所周知的‘育儿谷’，因为那里太有家庭氛围了。”
WHO BUYS IN LONDON
谁在伦敦买房
People from all over the world buy homes in London, and Clapham is no exception, agents said. The Lycée Français Wix School in the Clapham area tends to attract many French-speaking and European families to the area, Ms. Dell said.
据代理人说，伦敦的买房者来自世界各地，克拉彭也不例外。戴尔说，克拉彭的Lycée Français Wix学校常会吸引许多能讲法语的家庭和一些欧洲家庭来到这里。
Many buyers from the United States and Canada choose the area, which is particularly attractive to those in the financial industry with families, agents said. “You’re seeing lots of interest from bankers, because there’s pretty good transport links to Canary Wharf from Clapham,” Mr. Harvard-Walls said.
还有许多来自美国和加拿大的买家会选择这个区域，据代理人说，对从事金融业的家庭而言，这里尤其有吸引力。“你会看见许多银行家都对这里很感兴趣，因为从克拉彭区到金丝雀码头(Canary Wharf，伦敦的金融区——译注)有相当便捷的交通，”哈佛-沃尔斯说。
Russian, Chinese and Middle Eastern buyers are also present in large numbers, Mr. Owen said.
来自俄国、中国和中东的买家也数量众多，欧文说道。
BUYING BASICS
购房基本要求
The change of stamp duty to a progressive system, which went into effect in December 2014, has dampened the London market for homes over 2 million pounds, agents said. Buyers of homes that cost more than 937,000 pounds will pay more transaction tax than they did previously; according to the British government’s calculator, the tax on a house that sells for 2.35 million pounds (the price for which this house is listed) would be 195,750 pounds, or about $301,455.
英国的房地产税变成了一种累进税制，已于2014年12月生效，据代理人说，这项措施抑制了伦敦住宅价格超过200万磅的房地产市场。房产花费超过93.7万磅(约合人民币911万元)的购房者将要支付比之前更多的交易税；根据英国政府的计算方式，一栋以（要价）235万英镑（约合人民币2285万元）出售的房屋，需缴纳的税费应为195750磅（约合人民币190万元），或301455美元左右。
Home buyers must hire a lawyer, at a fee that equates to roughly 0.25 percent of the property’s purchase price. Mr. Harvard-Walls said. The broker’s commission is paid by the seller. Most houses, like this one, are freehold properties. However, many apartments are leasehold properties, typically with long leases that require payment of ground rent, Mr. Owen said.
房屋买家必须有律师，其费用大约等同于该房产购买价格的0.25%。哈佛-沃尔斯说。经纪人的佣金由卖家支付。大多数与这栋房屋一样的住宅都是享有永久产权的房产。然而，许多公寓则是享有租赁产权的房产，尤其是那些要求支付地租的长期租赁公寓，欧文说。
WEBSITES
网站
Official London tourism site: visitlondon.com 
伦敦旅游官网：visitlondon.com 
Clapham area website: loveclapham.com 
克拉彭区网站：loveclapham.com 
Transport for London: tfl.gov.uk 
伦敦交通路线：tfl.gov.uk 
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
语言和货币
English; pound sterling (1 pound = $1.54)
英语；英镑（1英镑=1.54美元，约合人民币9.72元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
The annual council taxes on this home are roughly 2,065 pounds, or about $3,180.
这栋房屋每年的家庭税约为2065英镑（约合人民币20081元），或3180美元左右。