SEATTLE
西雅图
WHAT: A contemporary with three bedrooms and three bathrooms
待售房产：一栋三卧三卫的当代住宅
HOW MUCH: $2,395,000
价格：239.5万美元（约合人民币1487万元）
SIZE: 3,610 square feet total
面积：共计3610平方英尺（约335平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $663
每平方英尺单价：663美元（每平方米约合人民币4.4万元）
SETTING: This house is in Washington Park, a neighborhood on Lake Washington in central Seattle, about five miles from downtown. The neighborhood is named for a park and 200-acre arboretum that houses the city’s Japanese Garden, just a few blocks from this house. A 1990 structure given a renovation in 2007, the house stands apart from much of the neighborhood’s early 20th-century architecture, including a brick mansion used as the residence of the president of the University of Washington.
周边环境：这栋房屋位于华盛顿公园(Washington Park)住宅区，这里是西雅图中心区靠近华盛顿湖(Lake Washington)的一座社区，距离市中心大约5英里（约8公里）。这座社区以一座公园，即面积200英亩（约81公顷）的植物园命名，西雅图日本花园(Japanese Garden)就在里面，而这座园林与这栋房产仅数条街之隔。该房屋是一栋1990年的建筑，于2007年经过翻修，在这座社区中，它远离了大部分20世纪初期的建筑，其中包括一栋用作华盛顿大学校长宅邸的砖砌豪宅。
INDOORS: The crisp three-story contemporary was built in 1990 and extensively renovated in 2007 by Geoff Prentiss of Prentiss Architects in Seattle. Designed for sustainability and eco-friendliness, the exterior is cedar siding, stucco and a waterproof fiber-cement called Cembonit made by Cembrit, an English company. The house has a roof-mounted passive solar pre-heater for water and is wired for photovoltaic solar panels, while the interior makes extensive use of bamboo and other materials that have a low impact on the environment.
室内环境：这栋清爽的三层楼当代住宅建于1990年，后来由西雅图普伦蒂斯建筑公司(Prentiss Architects)的杰夫·普伦蒂斯(Geoff Prentiss)于2007年大面积翻修过。该建筑在设计上考虑了节能与环保，因而外墙采用了雪松木壁板、灰泥粉饰以及由英国公司Cembrit生产的Cembonit牌防水纤维水泥。这栋房屋有架设在屋顶的被动式太阳能热水器，而且采用了光伏太阳能板供电，室内设计大量运用了竹质材料和其他对环境影响不大的材料。
The house is situated for Mount Rainier views. The common areas are one flight up from the entry level. The living room area has extensive built-in bamboo storage and a gas fireplace with a stone mantel; wall speakers and a subwoofer provide surround sound. It shares a two-sided gas fireplace with the kitchen and dining area, which has a vaulted ceiling and a skylight. Glass doors open to a walled back garden.
从这栋房屋可以看到雷尼尔山(Mount Rainier)风景。屋内的公共活动区位于进门那一层的楼上。客厅里有大量嵌壁式竹木储藏柜，还有一座带石砌壁炉台的燃气壁炉；客厅墙壁上还有几个音箱和一个低音炮组成的环绕立体声系统。这座客厅与厨房和餐厅区共用一座双面的燃气壁炉，餐厅区有拱顶天花板和一扇天窗。这里还有一扇玻璃门通往带有围墙的后花园。
The dining area has a 14-foot-tall wall of folding glass that opens to more than 330 square feet of ipe wood deck. Kitchen appliances include a Sub-Zero refrigerator, double Wolf ovens, a Wolf gas range, a Miele dishwasher and a wine refrigerator. Cabinets are bamboo, and countertops are either hand-troweled Milestone, a composite material, or Alkemi, which is made from recycled materials.
这个餐厅区有一面14英尺（约4.3米）高的折叠玻璃墙，可以通往一处面积超过330平方英尺（约31平方米）的重蚁木平台。厨房中的电器包括了一台Sub-Zero冰箱、两台Wolf烤箱、一个Wolf燃气灶、一台Miele洗碗机和一台红酒冰箱。橱柜是竹质的，台面是一种手砌的复合材料Milestone，或者以再生材料制成的Alkemi。
The master bedroom suite is on the entry level, set off from the rest of the house for privacy. It has floor-to-ceiling windows, a walk-in cedar closet, and in-ceiling stereo speakers. The other entry-level bedroom also has a walk-in closet and a private bathroom. The third bedroom is on the walkout lower level, and is currently used as an artist’s studio, with Pennsylvania bluestone floors, built-in cabinetry and a queen-size Murphy bed. Floor-to-ceiling windows overlook a stone courtyard shaded by redbud trees, which flower purple in the spring. There is a two-car garage with storage space.
主卧套间位于进门的这一层，出于隐私考虑，主卧与这栋房屋的其余部分隔开了。主卧室里有几扇落地窗，一个步入式的雪松木衣柜，以及内嵌于天花板的立体声音箱。另一间位于进门层的卧室里也有一个步入式的橱柜，还带有一间单独的浴室。第三间卧室位于可步出的负一层，那里现在用作一间画室，室内铺着宾夕法尼亚的蓝石地砖，有嵌壁式的高品质家具和一张大号的墨菲隐壁双人床。室内的几扇落地窗可眺望一座种着紫荆树的石砌庭院，这些树会在春天开出紫色的花。这栋房屋还有一座带有储存空间的双车位车库。
OUTDOOR SPACE: In addition to its large ipe-wood deck and back garden, which also has an ipe-wood deck, the property has a front courtyard with a stone fountain. Accent lighting under the back garden’s stone wall and Japanese maple tree make it a nice place to sit at night. The property was landscaped by Scot Eckley of Seattle.
户外空间：除了一个面积相当客观的重蚁木平台，以及同样带有一个重蚁木平台的后花园之外，这栋房屋还有一座带石砌喷泉的前院。后花园石墙下的装饰灯光和日本的枫树让这里变成了晚上小憩的绝佳去处。这栋房屋的景观是由西雅图Scot Eckley公司设计的。
TAXES: Approximately $16,213 a year
税：每年约16213美元（约合人民币10万元）
CONTACT: Terry Allen and Patricia Wallace, Coldwell Banker Bain, (425) 417-6161 / (206) 947-2209; cbbain.com
联系方式：Terry Allen and Patricia Wallace, Coldwell Banker Bain, (425) 417-6161 / (206) 947-2209; cbbain.com
NEW ORLEANS
新奥尔良
WHAT: An 1890 Victorian with four bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms
待售房产：一栋建于1890年、带四间卧室和三间半浴室的维多利亚别墅
HOW MUCH: $2,375,000
价格：237.5万美元（约合人民币1474万元）
SIZE: 4,316 square feet total
面积：共计4316平方英尺（约401平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $550
每平方英尺单价：550美元（每平方米约合人民币3.7万元）
SETTING: This house is near Esplanade Avenue, on a stretch lined with live oaks. Esplanade marks the eastern end of the French Quarter, a historic district of Creole and Greek Revival architecture with wrought-iron balconies overlooking narrow streets. On the other side of Esplanade is the Marigny, a neighborhood known for a seemingly perpetual stream of live music coming from Frenchmen Street.
周边环境：这栋房屋位于滨海大道(Esplanade Avenue)附近，其所在路段两旁都种着槲树。滨海大道在新奥尔良市法国区的最东端，这里是一个到处可以看到克里奥式建筑和希腊复兴式建筑的地方，这些建筑都带着铸铁栏杆的阳台，可以眺望下面狭窄的街道。滨海大道的另一边是马里尼区(Marigny)，这个社区里似乎总能听见一些现场演奏的音乐，乐声源源不断地从法国街(Frenchmen Street)上传来，该社区也以此而闻名。
INDOORS: The three-story house was built in 1890. When the current owners purchased it, it was being used as apartments. A large-scale renovation started in 2011, restoring the structure to a single-family house. Original ceiling medallions, archways, molding and mantels were restored, as were the hardwood floors. Walls were knocked down to expose the grand original staircase, which had been hidden for years.
室内环境：这栋三层楼的房屋建于1890年。现任业主买下这栋房屋后，把这里拆成不同公寓。一场大规模的翻修工作始于2011年，将这栋建筑恢复成了一栋独门独户的别墅。原有的天花板圆形吊顶、拱门、装饰线条和壁炉台都恢复了原样，还有实木地板。隔墙都拆了，露出了原来的主楼梯，这段楼梯已被深藏了许多年。
The house has a side-hall layout, with two generous parlors, both with fireplaces. These are followed by a sunny bar with a sink, built-in glass storage and glass doors leading to a courtyard. Ceilings in the common rooms reach 14 feet. The former servants’ quarters have been turned into a large kitchen with stainless-steel appliances, white cabinetry and a view of the courtyard. The first floor also has an office.
这栋房屋有偏厅布局，其中包括两间宽敞的会客室，都带有壁炉。另外还有一个带水池的阳光吧台，一个嵌壁式玻璃储物间和一扇通往庭院的玻璃门。几间公共休息室的天花板高达14英尺(约4米)。曾经的几间佣人房已经改成了一间大厨房，内有不锈钢的电器和白色的橱柜，可以看见庭院的风景。一楼还有一间办公室。
The master suite is on the second floor. In addition to a bathroom finished almost entirely in onyx, there’s a sitting room with a wet bar, built-in bookshelves and floor-to-ceiling windows. The room opens to a wrought-iron balcony overlooking Esplanade. Another second-floor bedroom is part of a suite with a kitchen, a living room and a private stairway to the courtyard in back. The remaining two bedrooms are on the third floor. The house has gated parking.
主卧套间位于二楼。这里除了有一间全玛瑙的浴室之外，还有一个带洗涤槽的吧台、几个嵌壁式书架和几扇落地窗。这间房通往一座有铸铁栏杆、可以眺望滨海大道的阳台。另一间位于二楼的卧室是一个套间的一部分，那个套间带有一间厨房、一间客厅和一段可以通往后院的独立楼梯。另外的两间卧室位于三楼。这栋房屋有带门禁的停车位。
OUTDOOR SPACE: A courtyard and a deck.
户外空间：一座庭院和一处平台。
TAXES: Approximately $32,718 a year
税：每年大约32718美元（约合人民币20万元）
CONTACT: Bryan Francher and Leslie Perrin, Francher Perrin Group with Gardner Realtors, (504) 251-6400 / (504) 722-5820; francherperrin.com
联系方式：Bryan Francher and Leslie Perrin, Francher Perrin Group with Gardner Realtors, (504) 251-6400 /(504) 722-5820; francherperrin.com
BOULDER, COLO. 
科罗拉多州，博尔德市
WHAT: A midcentury modern with five bedrooms and four and a half bathrooms
待售房产：一栋20世纪中期的现代住宅，带五间卧室与四间半浴室
HOW MUCH: $2,299,000
价格：229万美元（约合人民币1421万元）
SIZE: 4,820 square feet, total
面积：总计4820平方英尺（约448平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $477
每平方英尺单价：477美元（每平方米约合人民币3.2万元）
SETTING: This house is on a wooded, winding road in an affluent neighborhood near the edge of the city, where development gives way to parkland and mountains. Trails leading into a large city park are near the house, which has views of Bear Peak and Green Mountain, as well as the rooftops of the University of Colorado, about a mile away, next to downtown Boulder.
周边环境：这栋房屋位于一条树木葱茏、蜿蜒曲折的道路旁边，坐落在靠近博尔德市边缘处的一个富庶社区中，那里尚未全面开发，仍然保留着大片的绿地和山脉。几条通往一座大公园的小路就在这栋房屋的旁边，那里可以看见贝尔峰(Bear Peak)与格林山(Green Mountain)的景色，还可以远眺紧邻博尔德市中心、距此大约一英里（约1.6公里）的科罗拉多大学的建筑。
INDOORS: The cedar- and redwood-sided house was built in 1966 and last renovated in 2013. The interior has walls of windows facing woods and mountains.
室内环境：这栋镶有雪松与红木壁板的房屋建于1966年，最后一次翻修是在2013年。屋内有几面墙的窗户正对着森林与山脉。
Built on a slope, the house has three stories: an entry level and two lower levels, following the grade of the land. Common areas are on the entry level, which with the exception of a partial wall delineating the kitchen is completely open, with walls of glass and clerestory windows throughout that create a treehouse feel. Floors are blond wood; ceilings are white wood with exposed trusses and beams.
这栋房屋建在一处斜坡上，楼高三层，包括进门的一层和下面循地势而建的两层。公共活动区位于进门的一层，这里除了一间以半墙围起来的厨房之外，完全是开放式的格局，有整面墙的玻璃窗和天窗，造成了一种树屋的感觉。室内的地面铺的是金黄色的木板；天花板上用了白色的木料，有暴露在外的桁架与横梁。
The living area has a wood stove and doors opening to a deck among trees, while the kitchen and dining area open to a front patio. Stainless-steel kitchen appliances and granite countertops were added during the 2013 renovation.
这间客厅有一座燃木火炉，客厅里的一扇门通往树丛中的一处平台，而厨房和餐厅区通往前面的一处露台。这些不锈钢的厨房电器与花岗岩的台面都是2013年翻修期间增加的。
The master suite is on the entry level. The bedroom opens to a private deck; the bathroom has a large walk-in shower. Three other bedrooms are one floor below on the middle level, as is a large family room with intersecting walls of windows. One of the bedrooms has an en-suite bathroom. The fifth bedroom is in the lowest level, in a suite with a living room, a kitchenette and a separate entrance, as well as a patio.
这个主卧套间位于进门层。卧室带一处私人平台，浴室里有一间面积很大的步入式淋浴房。另外三间卧室位于进门层下面的中间层，这里还有一间大面积的家庭娱乐室，内有几面墙的交叉排列的窗户。在这三间卧室中，有一间卧室带了一个套间浴室。另外，第五间卧室位于最底层，属于套间的一部分，这个套间还带有一间客厅、一间小厨房、一个独立的入口，以及一处露台。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house is on 0.42 acres, most of it wooded with mature trees. A little creek runs along the back of the lot.
户外空间：这栋房屋占地0.42英亩（约1700平方米），大部分地方都树木葱茏，还有一条小溪经过这块土地的后面。
TAXES: Approximately $9,177 a year
税：每年9177美元（约合人民币5.7万元）
CONTACT: Steve Remmert, Colorado Landmark Realtors, (303) 302-8812; steveremmert.com
联系方式：Steve Remmert, Colorado Landmark Realtors, (303) 302-8812;steveremmert.com