KRASNAYA POLYANA, Russia — A senior adviser to the Sochi Olympics convened an emergency meeting late last week with top winter sports officials at the Park Inn hotel in the Alpine village here.
俄罗斯红波利亚纳——上周的后几天，索契冬奥会的一名高级顾问在此地高山小村的公园酒店和冬季体育项目最高官员召开了一场紧急会议。
A situation had grown dire. It was not security, attendance or doping that was the problem. It was salt.
局面已变得相当紧迫。出问题的不是安保、上座率或兴奋剂。而是盐。
Four months earlier, Hans Pieren, one of the world’s leading experts on salt and snow, had told Sochi officials that the Alpine skiing events required more than 19 tons of salt, a crucial ingredient for melting soft snow so it can refreeze into a hard surface.
早在四个月前，全球首屈一指的盐和雪专家汉斯·皮耶朗(Hans Pieren)就对索契的官员说，高山滑雪项目需要超过19吨的盐，这是融雪的一种关键原料，有了它，松软的雪就能被融化，然后重新冻结成坚硬的表面。
But the organizers did not listen, to their great regret. Now, with 10 days of competition remaining, many of the Games’ signature events were in jeopardy of being compromised, and even canceled.
然而，让主办方深感懊悔的是，他们没有听皮耶朗的话。现在，比赛还有10天，许多重要的赛事都岌岌可危，乃至面临被取消的风险。
Tim Gayda, a Canadian consultant who is a senior adviser to the Sochi organizers, called the meeting Thursday night, according to some people who were there. He told the group that the strongest kind of salt, the large-grain variety, was simply not available in Russia. Mr. Gayda asked the group an urgent question: Does anyone know how we can get 25 tons of salt — tonight?
据一些与会者透露，周四晚间的会议是由索契冬奥会主办方高级顾问、加拿大咨询师蒂姆·盖达(Tim Gayda)召集的。他对与会者表示，俄罗斯根本没有那种效力最强的大颗粒盐。盖达向与会者提出一个紧急的问题：有谁知道，我们怎样才能在今晚获得25吨盐？
From there, a confidential international mission unspooled — a mountaintop “Ocean’s Eleven” — that just may have prevented a major Olympic embarrassment. This Sochi salt accord involved a Swiss salt salesman working late into the night; a rerouted airplane that may or may not have come from Bulgaria; an Olympian turned salt savant; and Russians powerful enough to clear months of customs bureaucracy overnight.
一项机密的国际任务就此从这里展开，这项山顶“十一罗汉”(Ocean’s Eleven)任务，也许能避免奥运史上原本可能出现的十分尴尬的一幕。此次的索契供盐协议涉及了一名工作至深夜的瑞士盐业供销商；一趟或许是来自保加利亚的改道航班；一名由奥运选手转型而成的盐类专家；还有一些神通广大的俄罗斯人，本来要耗费数月时间的清关手续，他们一夜完成。
It began with Mr. Pieren, 52, a ruddy Swiss skier who works as a senior race director for F.I.S., the international ski federation. He discusses the merits of different salt grains with the precision of a jeweler and often carries plastic sandwich bags with grains of salt — fine, medium and large.
任务的开启者是脸色红润的瑞士滑雪者皮耶朗，他是国际滑雪联盟（International Ski Federation，简称FIS）的高级赛事总监，现年52岁。他以珠宝商的精准来讨论大小不同的盐粒的优势，他常常随身带着装三明治用的塑料袋，里面是精盐、中号盐和大颗粒盐。
Last September, Mr. Pieren made a final inspection of the Alpine skiing courses and told Sochi organizers that he needed 19 tons of salt for the Games: two tons of fine-grain salt, seven tons of medium and, most important, 10 tons of large-grain Himalayan-style salt. This was the heavy-duty salt that sinks deep into the snow, lasts longer and is most effective in warm weather.
去年9月，皮耶朗对高山滑雪场做了最后一次巡视，他对索契主办方表示，他需要主办方为赛事准备19吨盐，其中有2吨是精盐，有7吨是中号盐，最重要的是要有10吨产自喜马拉雅的大颗粒盐。这是一种耐用盐，能深度渗入雪中，在温暖的天气下能维持更久，达到最佳效果。
In emphatic but imperfect English, Mr. Pieren placed his order in a Sept. 29 email to Yves Dimier, the head of Alpine sports for Sochi’s organizing committee. “If the conditions are incredible bad or wears than expected, we need maybe more salt and have to get more,” Mr. Pieren wrote.
在去年9月29日致索契冬奥会组委会高山滑雪项目主管伊夫·迪米耶(Yves Dimier)的电子邮件中，皮耶朗用有点生硬的英语斩钉截铁地下了订单。皮耶朗写道，“如果情况十分糟糕，或者损耗得比意料的快，我们也许需要更多的盐，而且必须拿到更多的盐。”
Mr. Pieren, who competed in Alpine skiing events at the 1988 and 1992 Olympics and now works with international competitions, was used to getting his way on matters of salt. Guided by intuition and experience, he combines different grains to find the right solution for every kind of snow. “When we order something, it is not a wish,” he said. “It is a must.”
皮耶朗曾参加过1988年和1992年的冬奥会高山滑雪比赛，目前，他在为国际比赛工作。向来在谈到盐的问题时，他总能说了算。在直觉和经验的引导下，他能根据各种雪的质地来组合出不同的盐的搭配，找到最佳解决方案。他说，“当我们下订单时，那不是许一个愿，而是必须做到。”
But Sochi organizers did not listen. After spending more than $50 billion on the Games, they did not order the full amount of salt recommended, which would have cost perhaps a few thousand dollars.
然而，索契主办方没有听从他的意见。他们为冬奥会耗资500多亿美元（约合3000亿元人民币），却没有遵从推荐订购足量的盐，这些盐也许只会花费他们几千美元。
By the time of the emergency meeting, the world was watching Olympic athletes who had spent their lives training for these competitions. But their efforts could all be undone because of five-millimeter grains of salt or, rather, the lack of them.
截至紧急会议举行时，全球都在注视着这些奥运会选手，他们为了这些比赛花去毕生精力进行训练。然而，他们的努力也许全都会因为5毫米的盐粒，或者更确切地说，是因为缺少这一点点盐而白费了。
“They didn’t recognize the importance of the salt,” Mr. Pieren said. “They don’t know anything about salt.”
皮耶朗说，“他们没有意识到盐的重要性。他们对盐一无所知。”
It was not just the Alpine skiing races that were in trouble. Mr. Pieren fielded frantic calls from colleagues across the mountain — at cross-country, the halfpipe, Nordic combined. All were worried about the conditions. All were in need of salt.
遇到麻烦的不仅是高山滑雪比赛。皮耶朗接到了来自山上山下的同事打来的紧急电话，有越野项目的、半管道滑项目的，还有北欧两项比赛的。他们都对比赛场地的条件表示担忧。所有人都需要盐。
Prominent athletes began to complain about the conditions. The halfpipe is “pretty hard to ride,” said Shaun White, an American snowboarder and one of the Games’ biggest stars.
知名运动员开始抱怨场地条件。美国单板滑雪运动员、本届冬奥会最耀眼的明星之一肖恩·怀特(Shaun White)说，半管赛道“很不好走”。
“Once everyone gets in there, it just turns to mush,” Mr. White said.
“所有人一进去，雪就开始碎了，”怀特说。
Sochi officials had to act swiftly. When Mr. Gayda asked about arranging an emergency infusion of salt, Mr. Pieren knew where to turn. He called Schweizer Rheinsalinen, a 160-year-old company near Basel, Switzerland, that sits on the banks of the river for which it is named. On its website, the company declares salt “a world unto itself.”
索契的官员必须迅速采取行动。当盖达问及紧急加盐的安排时，皮耶朗知道应该找谁。他打电话给瑞士巴塞尔附近的Schweizer Rheinsalinen公司。有160年历史的该公司坐落在莱茵河畔，公司也因该河得名。该公司在自己的网站上宣称盐“是自成体系的世界”。
Mr. Pieren reached Marcel Plattner, a sales accountant who works mostly in food-grade salt. Mr. Pieren told him he was in trouble. “Not him personally in trouble, but he told me Sochi didn’t have enough salt,” Mr. Plattner said.
皮耶朗找到了主要从事食品级多元盐业务的销售会计马塞尔·普拉特纳(Marcel Plattner)。皮耶朗告诉他自己遇到了麻烦。“他告诉我说不是他自己遇到了麻烦，而是索契的盐不够了，” 普拉特纳说。
Mr. Pieren was relieved to hear the Swiss company had plenty of big-grain salt in a nearby warehouse; he said Olympic officials would buy 24 tons if it could be shipped immediately. At roughly $150 a ton, the bill would be more than $3,500.
听说那家瑞士公司位于附近的仓库里有大量大颗粒盐时，皮耶朗如释重负。他说，如果能立即装运，奥运会官员将购买24吨盐。以每吨盐大致150美元的价格，这笔交易涉及金额将超过3500美元。
Mr. Plattner was on a sales call with a supermarket chain when Mr. Pieren called. He was thrilled to help — he had been watching the Sochi Games and was a fan of winter sports, hockey and skiing especially. “I felt bad for the athletes,” he said. “It wasn’t their mistake.”
皮耶朗打来电话时，普拉特纳正与一家连锁超市通过电话推销产品。他非常兴奋地表示要帮忙——他一直在关注索契奥运会，自己还是冬季运动的粉丝，尤其是曲棍球和滑雪运动。“我为那些运动员感到遗憾，”他说，“这不是他们的错。”
Once Schweizer Rheinsalinen agreed to the sale, the international ski federation helped reroute a plane to Zurich, according to Jenny Wiedeke, a spokeswoman for the organization. The plane would leave Zurich at 11 a.m., with or without the salt.
据国际滑雪联盟女发言人詹妮·维德克(Jenny Wiedeke)称，Schweizer Rheinsalinen公司一同意这笔买卖，国际滑雪联盟就帮着更改了一架飞机的路线，让其前往苏黎世。不管有没有装上盐，这架飞机都将于上午11时飞离苏黎世。
“If you’re too late, the show is gone,” Mr. Plattner said. “It was the time which was working against us.”
“如果太晚了，比赛就结束了，”普拉特纳说，“我们面临的最大挑战是时间。”
The ski federation and Sochi officials declined to describe how they secured a plane on such short notice. Mr. Plattner said he was told it came from Sofia, the Bulgarian capital.
滑雪联盟和索契的官员拒绝透露，他们是如何在这么短的时间里弄到一架飞机的。普拉特纳说，有人告诉他说飞机是从保加利亚首都索非亚飞来的。
Mr. Plattner worked until 11 that night to make the arrangements. He said he did not even have time to tell his boss. “It was very exciting,” he said.
为了进行相关安排，普拉特纳那天晚上一直工作到11点。他说自己甚至都没时间告诉他的老板。“太刺激了，”他说。
After the salt passed a security check Friday, Olympic vehicles took the load straight to the mountain, and about 24 hours after the emergency salt meeting, workers stood on the mountain, sprinkling the soft snow with big-grained salt, fresh from Switzerland.
当那些盐在周五通过安检时，服务于奥运会的车辆便径直将它们运往了举办赛事的那座山。在以盐为主题的紧急会议结束大约24小时候后，工人们站在那座山上，向松软的雪地上抛撒刚从瑞士运来的大颗粒盐。
Even though problems with the course persisted Saturday, as several skiers in the women’s super-G struggled, Mr. Pieren said he believed that the worst was behind them. Course managers were now armed if the temperature remained well above freezing, as expected.
尽管赛道问题持续到了周六，女子超级大回转滑雪比赛中的几名选手都遇到了一些问题，但皮耶朗认为，最糟糕的时刻已经过去了。如果温度像预想中的那样继续保持在远高于零度的水平，赛道管理人员现在也已经做好了应对准备。
“It could have ended in disaster,” he said. “But it was good teamwork.”
“比赛本来可能会以灾难告终，”他说，“但多亏了出色的团队合作。”