RIO DE JANEIRO — For years, Brazilians had a phrase they would inevitably utter when things went wrong. “Imagina na Copa,” they told one another after an endless traffic jam or a construction accident or an ugly rash of violence dominated the news — imagine if this happened during the World Cup. It was a foreboding warning, a pre-emptive sigh of the presumed disasters that lay ahead.
里约热内卢——多年来，只要事情一不对劲，巴西人总会说这样一句话：“Imagina na Copa”（想想世界杯时会怎样吧）。每当发生严重的交通拥堵、建筑事故，或者新闻被丑陋的暴力事件充斥时，他们就会对彼此说这句话——想象一下，如果这发生在世界杯期间会如何。这是一个充满不祥之兆的警告，预示灾难即将发生。
Over five weeks, though, Brazil avoided any of the major disasters it feared as dramatic games and entertaining soccer — as well as the national team’s own stunning collapse — generally overshadowed any logistical issues. It was fitting, then, that in the final game here, Brazilians narrowly dodged the ultimate on-field nightmare, too.
然而过去五周，巴西避免了它所担心的一切重大灾难，因为扣人心弦的比赛和令人愉悦的足球——以及巴西国家队令人震惊的惨痛失败——基本让所有基础设施问题都显得不重要了。因此，在世界杯的决赛中，巴西人又侥幸躲过了一次球场上的终极噩梦，也像是顺理成章的了。
There was no celebration for Lionel Messi and Argentina on Sunday, no party at the famed Estádio do Maracanã for Brazil’s biggest rival. Instead it was Germany, on a gorgeous goal from Mario Götze just minutes before the game would have gone to a shootout, that celebrated, with a 1-0 victory in extra time. The win made Germany the first European team to prevail in a World Cup in the Americas and gave the Germans their fourth title over all (and their first since 1990).
周日，利昂内尔·梅西(Lionel Messi)和阿根廷没有进行任何庆祝，这个巴西最大的敌人没能在著名的马拉卡纳体育场(Estádio do Maracanã)举行盛会。进行庆祝的是德国，马里奥·格策(Mario Götze)一个漂亮的进球，使德国队在加时赛中以1:0战胜阿根廷；此时加时赛即将结束，再过几分钟，双方就将进入点球大战环节。这次胜利使德国成了第一支在美洲举行的世界杯中获胜的欧洲球队，德国也因此第四次获得世界杯冠军（这是德国队自1990年以来的第一次世界杯冠军）。
How much did Brazilian fans want to see Argentina lose? When Götze chested down a pass from André Schürrle and then lashed the ball into the side netting, the stadium, which was still filled with plenty of fans in Brazil’s yellow jerseys, erupted. Germany eliminated Brazil from the tournament with a 7-1 rout in the semifinals, but it did not matter; as long as any team but Argentina won, the home fans were pleased.
巴西球迷究竟有多想看到阿根廷败北？当格策用前胸停下安德烈·许尔勒(André Schürrle)的传球，然后把球踢进球门时，仍然坐着大批身着巴西队黄色球衣球迷的体育场顿时沸腾起来。德国在半决赛中以7:1淘汰巴西，但是没关系；只要赢的不是阿根廷就行，巴西球迷很开心。
The Argentine players and fans, meanwhile, hung their heads. Messi is often praised as the best player in the world, but he has struggled to gain universal acclaim in Argentina, where he will forever be compared with Diego Maradona — who, of course, delivered a World Cup title in 1986. 
同时，阿根廷的球员和球迷则低下了头。虽然梅西享有世界最佳球员的美誉，但是他仍然非常希望能在阿根廷国家队获得世界的赞许。因为在这里，他永远会被人拿来与迭戈·马拉多纳(Diego Maradona)作比较——当然，后者曾在1986年帮阿根廷赢得世界杯冠军。
It was estimated that as many 100,000 Agentines traveled across the border — many on flights but a fair number on long car or bus trips, too — and the vast majority seemed to settle in Copacabana or other neighborhoods along the water. That most did not have tickets to the final was irrelevant; they were here to eat, drink, dance and, once kickoff finally arrived, watch the match among the masses.
据估计，有多达10万名阿根廷人来到巴西——许多人是坐飞机，但还有相当一部分人是坐小汽车或大巴远道而来——大部分人似乎都住在科帕卡巴纳(Copacabana)或其他沿海社区。大部分没有决赛门票的人都觉得无所谓；他们来这里只是为了吃喝和跳舞，一旦比赛开始，他们就在人群中观看比赛。
One Argentine who was not in Brazil, however, was the country’s president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner. Kirchner declined an invitation from President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil, citing a lingering illness and a desire to celebrate her grandson’s first birthday with her family. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany did make the trans-Atlantic trip, as did Vladimir Putin, the president of Russia, which will host the World Cup in 2018.
然而，有一个阿根廷人不在巴西，那就是阿根廷总统克里斯蒂娜·费尔南德斯·德基什内尔(Cristina Fernández de Kirchner)。德基什内尔以疾病未愈和希望与家人一起庆祝孙子的第一个生日为由，拒绝了巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)的邀请。德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)，以及2018年世界杯举办国俄罗斯的弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)总统都越过大西洋来到了巴西。
The teams had met in two previous World Cup finals, one that was a thriller (Argentina’s 3-2 victory over West Germany in 1986) and one that is generally regarded as the worst final in the history of the tournament (West Germany’s slog to a 1-0 win in 1990), and Sunday’s game appeared more like the former from the start.
决赛的两支队伍此前曾两次在世界杯决赛中相遇，一次颇为惊悚（1986年，阿根廷3:2险胜西德），另一次普遍被认为是世界杯历史上最差的决赛（1990年，西德1:0艰难取胜），而周日的比赛从一开始，看上去就更像两队第一次交手时的情况。
Both sides had injury issues — Argentina was without Ángel di María, and Germany replaced Sami Khedira just before kickoff because of a calf problem — but the speed of play was frantic all the same. Messi showed great speed in getting around Mats Hummels early to create a chance. A Gonzalo Higuaín shot somehow completely missed the net after Toni Kroos inexplicably headed the ball back toward his own goal, leaving Higuaín open from about 18 yards out.
双方都有伤病问题——阿根廷队的安赫尔·迪马利亚(Ángel di María)没能出现在赛场上，而就在比赛开始前，因为小腿的问题，德国队换下了萨米·赫迪拉(Sami Khedira)，不过比赛的速度没有丝毫放缓。比赛伊始，梅西在突破马茨·胡梅尔斯(Mats Hummels)时表现出了极快的速度，创造了一次机会。托尼·克罗斯(Toni Kroos)令人费解地用头将球顶向本方大门，而冈萨洛·伊瓜因(Gonzalo Higuaín)离门约18码（约合16米）的地方一记射门，莫名其妙地完全偏出球门。
As the ball rolled harmlessly wide, Higuaín stared, blankly, as his teammate Javier Mascherano grabbed his head in disbelief. Germany then had its own version of that reaction just before halftime when Benedikt Höwedes blasted a header off the goal post as Argentina’s goalkeeper, Sergio Romero, was flat-footed and helpless.
当球毫无威胁地偏出时，伊瓜因面无表情地盯着它，他的队友哈维尔·马斯切拉诺(Javier Mascherano)难以置信地揪住自己的头发。随后，就在中场休息前，德国队也表现出了同样的反应。当时，在阿根廷门将塞尔希奥·罗梅罗(Sergio Romero)手忙脚乱、绝望无助之时，贝内迪克特·赫韦德斯(Benedikt Höwedes)的头球却在击中门柱后弹开。
For all of Argentina’s forays upfield — and there were many — it did not record a shot on goal in the 90 minutes of regulation time.
尽管在前场上演了一系列进攻——本场比赛阿根廷攻势颇多——但在全场90分钟的时间里，阿根廷没有一次射正。
Extra time was largely forgettable — as might have been expected because the players, who were in their seventh game of the tournament, were clearly exhausted — but Argentina had one more chance to regret: Rodrigo Palacio sneaked in behind Hummels but saw his chip float wide of the goal.
加时赛基本上波澜不兴——正如人们预料的那样，因为这是球员们在本届世界杯上的第七场比赛，他们显然已经精疲力尽——但阿根廷又错失一次良机：罗德里戈·帕拉西奥(Rodrigo Palacio)从胡梅尔斯身后潜入，却眼看着自己的射门偏出。
Germany then seized its moment with Götze’s superb finish in the 113th minute, which brought a fevered celebration from the German bench as the substitutes poured out onto the field with delight. Argentina had a few last-ditch rushes upfield but struggled to penetrate Neuer’s penalty area. Perhaps the best opportunity came just moments before the final whistle when Messi lined up a free kick from about 20 yards away.
第113分钟，德国抓住时机，格策漂亮地打进一球，德国队的替补席一片狂欢，替补队员兴奋地涌入赛场。最后时刻，阿根廷在前场多次带球突破，但要攻入诺伊尔(Neuer)的禁区却无比艰难。也许最好的机会是在终场哨吹响前不久，梅西在门前20码处的一次任意球。