A combination of David Beckham and the Japanese women’s national team inspired one of the most unlikely title wins in the history of modern soccer.
大卫·贝克汉姆(David Beckham)和日本女足国家队合在一起，启发了现代足球史上最意想不到的一个冠军。
That wouldn’t be the 5,000-to-1 triumph in the English Premier League that Leicester City celebrated on Saturday, but Chan Yuen-ting’s becoming the first woman to lead a men’s soccer team to a professional top-flight league championship.
这不是英超(English Premier League)莱斯特城(Leicester City)俱乐部上周六庆祝的那种赔率5000:1的胜利，但是，陈婉婷成为了第一位率领男子足球队在一流职业联赛中夺冠的女性。
Chan, 27, fell in love with soccer as a schoolgirl in Hong Kong, partly because of Beckham, but Japan’s win at the 2011 Women’s World Cup has proved to be a bigger influence.
陈婉婷现年27岁，在香港读书时就爱上了足球，部分影响来自贝克汉姆，但是事实证明，日本在2011年赢得女足世界杯对她的影响力更大。
“That was amazing for us in Asia,” Chan said in a telephone interview. “That inspired me. We all watched, and I knew the way I wanted my team to play.”
“对我们亚洲人来说，这很了不起，”陈婉婷在电话采访中说。“这启发了我。我们都看了比赛，我知道我希望自己的球队怎么踢球。”
Her Eastern Sports Club team closed out its season on Saturday but had already clinched the Hong Kong Premier League championship with a 2-1 win over South China on April 22. “When the referee blew the final whistle, I felt I was dreaming,” said Chan. “It was unbelievable. Reporters came to me, took pictures and asked questions. I was still nervous and couldn’t smile.”
她的东方体育会(Eastern Sports Club)在上周六踢完了这个赛季，但是在4月22日以2比1战胜了南华足球队(South China)的时候，该俱乐部就已经拿下了香港联赛冠军。“当主裁判吹响比赛结束的哨声时，我感觉就像是在梦中，”陈婉婷说。“有些不敢相信。记者来找我，拍照片，提问题。我还是很紧张，笑不出来。”
There are nine professional teams in the men’s league but no such competition for women. That prompted Chan, whose parents wanted her to pursue a more traditional career, to start coaching early. She started in 2010 as a video analyst for Pegasus, another Hong Kong club. In 2015, she led the club’s under-18 team to the youth league championship.
有九个职业球队参加男子联赛，但是没有女足比赛。这促使陈婉婷很早就开始了执教生涯，虽然父母希望她能选择一份更加传统的工作。她2010年入行，为香港另一个俱乐部飞马足球会(Pegasus)当视频分析师。2015年，她带领这支俱乐部的18岁以下球队获得了青年联赛的冠军。
Eastern’s previous head coach, Yeung Ching-kwong, departed in December to be an assistant at a second-tier club in Meizhou, China, and Chan, then an assistant coach at the club, was promoted, as she was the only member of the coaching staff with a coaching license from the Asian Football Confederation.
之前的主教练杨正光去年12月离开东方体育会，前往中国梅州担任一个二线俱乐部的助理教练，陈婉婷升任主教练，因为她是教练组里唯一获得了亚洲足联(Asian Football Confederation)教练执照的成员。
She may have been the most qualified, but there were doubts. “I asked the club, ‘Is this a good decision?’ I worried about my lack of experience. I didn’t want to bring trouble to the team, but they have really supported me and trusted me.”
她可能是最有资格的，但她也不无疑虑。“我问俱乐部，‘这是个好主意吗？’我担心自己缺乏经验。我不想给球队带来麻烦，但他们真的很支持我、信任我。”
Her first game was a 6-1 victory, and seven more victories came in the following nine matches. She has become a minor celebrity in the region, according to Mark Sutcliffe, the chief executive of the Hong Kong Football Association.
第一场比赛中，她的球队就获得了6比1的胜利，在接下来的九场比赛里，她的球队获得了七场胜利。香港足球总会(Hong Kong Football Association)行政总裁薜基辅(Mark Sutcliffe)说，陈婉婷已经在该地区变得小有名气。
“Eyebrows were raised when Ms. Chan was appointed, but I wasn’t surprised. She had been successful at youth level,” Sutcliffe wrote in an email. “Football remains male dominated and it takes a special person and a forward-thinking club to break the mold. We will know when true equality has been achieved when stories like this are no longer newsworthy.”
“陈婉婷被任命为主教练的时候，很多人都露出惊奇的神色，但我并不感到惊讶。她带领青年队的时候就很成功，”薛基辅在一封电邮中写道。“足球目前仍然是男性占主导的活动，需要有一个特别的人、一个有远见的俱乐部来打破窠臼。当这样的事件不再有新闻价值的时候，我们就知道，真正的平等已经实现。”
That may take some time, given the lack of women coaching in male sports. In June 2015, Nancy Lieberman was appointed as an assistant coach with the Sacramento Kings, the second woman to join the coaching staff of an N.B.A. team after Becky Hammon at the San Antonio Spurs. In Japan, Natalie Nakase was head coach of Saitama Broncos in the country’s professional league before returning to the United States in 2012 to work as a video coordinator for the Los Angeles Clippers.
鉴于在以男性为主导的运动领域执教的女性较为罕见，这可能需要一段时间。在2015年6月，南希·利伯曼(Nancy Lieberman)被任命为萨克拉门托国王队(Sacramento Kings)的助理教练，成为继圣安东尼奥马刺队(San Antonio Spurs)的贝基·哈蒙(Becky Hammon)之后第二个加入NBA球队教练组的女性。娜塔莉·中濑(Natalie Nakase)在2012年返美担任洛杉矶快船队(Los Angeles Clippers)的视频协调员之前，是日本职联埼玉队(Saitama Broncos)的主教练。
It is similar in soccer. Shelley Kerr is in charge of Stirling University F.C. in the fifth tier of the Scottish league system. In 2014, Clermont Foot in France’s second tier appointed Helena Costa, a Portuguese woman, as head coach, but she quit after a month saying there had been a lack of respect from the club. She was replaced by another female coach, Corinne Diacre.
足球领域情况类似。谢利·克尔(Shelley Kerr)是苏格兰联盟体系里的五线俱乐部斯特灵大学足球俱乐部(Stirling University F.C.)的负责人。2014年，法国二线俱乐部克莱蒙特足球俱乐部(Clermont Foot)任命葡萄牙女性海伦娜·科斯塔(Helena Costa)为主教练，但一个月后科斯塔辞职，称俱乐部对其缺乏尊重。接替她的是另一名女教练科琳娜·迪亚克尔(Corinne Diacre)。
“I think it is possible for more women to work in men’s football, and if this success helps, then I will be very happy,” said Chan. “It’s an important step for women in football. Once I took over as the head coach lots of reporters said, ‘You are a female coach and you are only 27.’ It doesn’t matter if I am female or male, young or old. The important thing is that I have to do my job well. If the team can’t get results, then you have a problem.”
“我觉得可能会有更多女性进入男子足球领域，如果这次的成功能起到帮助作用，我会非常高兴，”陈婉婷说。“这是女性参与足球运动的重要一步。我接任主教练后，很多记者说，‘你是个女教练，而且只有27岁。’我是男是女，年轻或年老都不重要。重要的是我必须做好我的工作。如果球队不能取得好成绩，就是我有问题。“
The results were there. The 6-1 win in her opening game helped make the transition smooth. “At the beginning, perhaps the players were a little confused. I was nervous and stressed, and I paid a lot of attention to the first week of training. But the players never challenged me or asked why I was head coach. They knew the situation, showed a professional attitude. They encouraged me all the way.”
成绩摆在那里了。首战6比1取胜帮助让球队实现了平稳过渡。“一开始，可能球员有一点困惑。我也有些紧张和焦虑。我非常重视第一周的训练。但球员们从来没质疑过我，或是问我凭什么当主教练。他们知道情况，表现出了一种职业的态度。他们一直鼓励我。
With the title won, the immediate plan is to stay at the club for next season and try to qualify for the AFC Champions League, Asia’s top club competition. Failing that, the AFC Cup beckons, a second-tier tournament.
夺冠后，近期计划是下个赛季继续留在俱乐部，并争取进入亚洲顶级俱乐部赛事亚洲足球俱乐部冠军联赛(AFC Champions League)。若不能如愿，还有在亚洲低一档的锦标赛亚足联亚洲杯(AFC Cup)。
Ultimately, Chan would like to work in the professional women’s leagues in China or England, though England may be a more fitting home for another unlikely title winner.
最终，陈婉婷希望能在中国或英格兰的女子职业联赛谋得一个职务，尽管英国也许是诞生又一个意想不到的胜利的合适的地方。
“Eastern have been the best team consistently over the course of the season,” said Sutcliffe. “It’s not quite Leicester-esque, but it’s a great achievement nonetheless.”
“东方体育会整个赛季一直都最好的队伍，”薜基辅说。“虽然不是莱斯特城那样的胜利，但这依然是一项了不起的成就。”