TOKYO — In the three and a half years since he won the Japanese prime minister’s office on a pledge to rekindle economic growth, Shinzo Abe has tried many tactics to coax the economy into expanding.
东京——在当上日本首相以来的三年半里，承诺重振经济增长势头的安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)尝试过很多办法，以求实现经济扩张。
He persuaded the central bank to flood the country with cheap money. He sanctioned a sharp fall in the value of the yen, a boon for big exporters like Toyota and Panasonic. And he increased government spending, pouring cash into areas as varied as day care and defense. The result has been well short of the renaissance Abe promised.
他说服日本央行，让这个国家泛滥着便宜的资金。他准许日元急剧贬值，为丰田(Toyota)、松下(Panasonic)等大型出口企业带来福音。他还增加了政府支出，把巨量资金投进从日托到国防等各个领域。不过，安倍所承诺的复兴远未实现。
Now his government is embarking on what may be its biggest spending program yet. On Tuesday, the government detailed a package of financial measures that it said was worth 28 trillion yen ($277 billion), equal to more than 5 percent of Japan’s gross domestic product.
安倍政府目前正在启动的一个支出项目的规模，或许堪称它迄今为止的所有支出项目之最。周二，安倍政府就一揽子财政方案进行了详细说明，称其价值28万亿日元（约合1.8万亿元人民币），相当于日本国内生产总值的5%以上。
“We’ve put together a bold stimulus proposal that is an investment in the future,” Abe said Tuesday.
“我们已经制订了一个大胆的刺激方案，这是对未来的投资，”安倍周二表示。
It will allocate money to social programs and infrastructure, including the construction of a high-speed train.
按照该方案，资金将被投向社会福利项目和基础设施建设，包括建造一条高铁线。
Though he has approved spending increases before, Abe has relied heavily on the money being pumped into the economy by the central bank, the Bank of Japan. This year, the bank took the extreme measure of reducing its benchmark interest rate below zero.
这并非安倍第一次批准增加支出，但此前他一直非常依赖由作为央行的日本银行(Bank of Japan)注入到经济中的资金。今年，该银行采取了非常手段，把基准利率降为了负数。
The central bank’s policies have let the government borrow at extremely low interest rates. Some economists saw the latest increase in spending as a sign Abe is in effect assuming that the bank will underwrite government spending more directly in the future — an approach sometimes called helicopter money because it essentially drops money into the public’s hands.
央行的政策让政府能够以极低的利率借款。在一些经济学家看来，增加支出的最新举措表明，安倍实际上正在假定，央行在未来的日子里会以更加直接的方式为政府支出买单——这种方式有时被称为“直升机撒钱”，因为其实质是把钱撒向公众手中。
“While helicopter money is a concept still frowned upon thus far, such coordination does make the first step in blurring the line as central banks run out of stimulus measures,” said Lee Jin-Yang, an analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management.
“到目前为止，‘直升机撒钱’还是人们不以为然的一个概念，但当央行用光了刺激工具的时候，这种协作的确是模糊界限的第一步，”安本资产管理公司(Aberdeen Asset Management)的分析师李金阳（Lee Jin-Yang，音）说。
Lee and other economists noted that the stimulus contains only 7.5 trillion yen ($74 billion) in new government spending, and that the money would be doled out on an uncertain timetable.
李金阳和其他经济学家指出，该刺激方案中只有7.5万亿日元的政府支出是新增加的，这笔钱被注入经济的时间表尚未确定。