Eleanor Catton was awarded the Man Booker Prize on Tuesday for “The Luminaries,” an immersive tale set in 19th-century New Zealand that explores identity, greed and human frailty.
本周二，埃莉诺·卡顿(Eleanor Catton)因《发光体》(The Luminaries)获得布克奖，这部小说以19世纪的新西兰为背景，令读者有身临其境之感，探索身份认同以及人性的贪婪和脆弱。
At 28, Ms. Catton is the youngest winner of the Booker. She was born in Canada and raised in Christchurch, New Zealand.
28岁的卡顿是迄今最年轻的布克奖得主。她生于加拿大，在新西兰的基督城长大。
The Booker is Britain’s most prestigious literary prize, awarded annually to a novelist from Britain, Ireland or a Commonwealth country. The winner receives £50,000, or about $80,000.
布克奖是英国最有声望的文学奖项，每年颁奖一次，授予一位英国、爱尔兰或其他英联邦国家的小说家。奖金为5万英镑，合8万美元。
Looking stunned after being named the winner, Ms. Catton said that her lengthy, complex novel was “a publisher’s nightmare.”
卡顿在得知自己获奖后显得十分震惊，她曾说自己冗长复杂的小说是“出版商的噩梦。”
She then thanked her publishers for striking the “elegant balance between making art and making money.”
之后她感谢出版商们“在艺术与盈利之间实现了极好的均衡”。
The book was released by Granta in Britain and Little, Brown and Company in the United States. At 848 pages, it is the longest book to win the Booker Prize.
这本书由格兰塔(Granta)在英国出版，利特尔与布朗出版公司(Little, Brown and Company)在美国出版，有848页，是布克奖获奖小说中最厚的一本。
The other nominees were “We Need New Names,” by NoViolet Bulawayo, a debut novel about a 10-year-old girl who journeys from Zimbabwe to the United States; “Harvest,” by Jim Crace, a dark, vividly drawn novel about the inhabitants of a small village; “A Tale for the Time Being,” by Ruth Ozeki, about a discovered diary that links people in distant cities; “The Lowland,” by Jhumpa Lahiri, about brothers living in post-colonial India; and “The Testament of Mary,” by Colm Toibin, a slim, 81-page portrait of Mary, the mother of Jesus.
其他提名小说包括努弗莱特·布拉瓦约(NoViolet Bulawayo)的处女作《我们需要新名字》(We Need New Names)，是一个10岁女孩从津巴布韦旅行到美国的故事；吉姆·克雷斯(Jim Crace)的《丰收》，阴暗、生动地描绘了一个小村的居民生活；罗斯·尾关(Ruth Ozeki)的《一个暂时的故事》(A Tale for the Time Being)，是关于一本被发现的日记，与一些边远城市的人们有关；茱帕·拉希里(Jhumpa Lahir)的《低地》(The Lowland)，讲述生活在后殖民印度的兄弟几个的故事；还有科尔姆·托宾(Colm Toibin)的《玛丽的圣经》(The Testament of Mary)是一篇关于圣母玛利亚的小说，仅有薄薄的81页。
This year’s ceremony, broadcast live from Guildhall in London, was especially momentous because it was the last year before the award is opened to entries from the United States and beyond.
今年的颁奖典礼在伦敦市政厅现场直播，该奖项自明年起就将对美国等国的作家开放，因此今年的颁奖显得尤为引人关注。
In September, the Booker Prize Foundation announced that in 2014 the prize would be open to all novels written in English and published in Britain, no matter the nationality of the author.
今年9月，布克奖基金会宣布，2014年，该奖项将向所有以英语写作并在英国出版的小说开放，不管作者的国籍在何处。
That decision prompted hand-wringing from many in the literary world in Britain, who worried that the reconceived Booker would be limited in its potential to discover and anoint new and unknown authors.
这一决定激起英国文学界许多人士剧烈的反应，他们担心改革后的布克奖在发掘和捧红不知名的新作家方面的潜力将受到限制。
Jonathan Taylor, chairman of the foundation, wrote at the time: “Paradoxically it has not been allowed full participation to all those writing literary fiction in English. It is rather as if the Chinese were excluded from the Olympic Games.”
布克奖基金会主席约拿森·泰勒(Jonathan Taylor)当时写道：“不让所有以英语创作小说的作家都参与评奖是荒谬的，就像把中国人排除在奥林匹克竞赛之外。”
The winner is selected by the judging panel on the day of the ceremony.
布克奖获奖者由评委会在颁奖仪式当天选出。
Ms. Catton’s first novel, “The Rehearsal,” was widely praised and nominated for awards including the Orange Prize and the Dylan Thomas Prize. She studied at the Iowa Writers’ Workshop and was 25 when she began writing “The Luminaries.”
卡顿的第一部小说《彩排》(The Rhearsal)广受赞誉，曾获橘子文学奖(Orange Prize)和迪伦·托马斯文学奖(Dylan Thomas Prize)提名。她曾在爱荷华作家工作室(Iowa Writers’ Workshop)学习，从25岁开始创作《发光体》。
Despite her age, “Maturity is evident in every sentence, in the rhythms and balances,” said Robert Macfarlane, chairman of the judges. “It is a novel of astonishing control.”
她年纪虽轻，但评审团主席罗伯特·麦克法伦(Robert Macfarlane)说：“字里行间、乃至节奏与布局中显然流露着成熟气质。这是一部控制力极为惊人的小说。”
Writing in The Guardian, Kirsty Gunn called “The Luminaries” a “consummate literary page-turner.” “Catton has created her own world in ‘The Luminaries’ — an upside-down, Southern Hemisphere kind of a place with its own astrological calendar that casts its own kind of influence, its own light.”
克里斯蒂·关(Kirsty Gunn)在《卫报》(The Guardian)的文章中说，《发光体》是“令人欲罢不能的精彩文学作品”。“卡顿在《发光体》中创造了自己的世界——一个上下颠倒的南半球世界，独特的星历发挥着自己的影响，散发出独特的光辉。”
The Booker bestows an author with an instant boost in sales and recognition.
获得布克奖后，作家的小说销量和名望都会迅速提升。
Some of Britain’s most revered authors, including Peter Carey, Ian McEwan and Julian Barnes, have won the prize.
彼得·克雷(Peter Carey)、伊恩·麦克尤恩(Ian McEwan)和朱利安·巴恩斯(Julian Barnes)等英国最有名望的作家都曾获得过布克奖。
Last year, the prize was given to Hilary Mantel for “Bring Up the Bodies,” her second Booker victory. She previously won in 2009, for “Wolf Hall,” the first book in her planned trilogy about Thomas Cromwell.
去年布克奖授予希拉里·曼特尔(Hilary Mantel)的《提堂》(Bring Up the Bodies)，这是她第二次荣膺该奖。2009年，她曾以《狼厅》(Wolf Hall)获奖，这是她计划中的托马斯·克伦威尔(Thomas Cromwell)三部曲中的第一部。