For the first time, China’s monthly box office earnings surpassed those of the United States, according to a report by The Hollywood Reporter, bolstered by a slate of domestic films in the Lunar New Year holiday season.
据《好莱坞记者》的一篇报道，在农历新年假期几部国产电影的带动下，中国的月度票房收入首次超过了美国。
China’s box office revenue totaled $650 million in February, putting it just ahead of the $640 million in receipts in the United States, the report said, citing data from the research firm Entgroup. The Lunar New Year holiday, which typically falls between mid-January and mid-February, is one of the top moviegoing periods in China. Foreign films are typically barred during the holidays, to clear the way for domestic films or co-productions.
报道称，中国二月份的票房收入总额为6.5亿美元(约合41亿元人民币)，领先于美国的6.4亿美元的票房收入，报道援引了研究公司艺恩咨询(Entgroup)的数据。农历新年通常是在一月中旬和二月中旬之间，是中国人看电影最多的时段之一。假日期间通常禁止上映外国电影，为的是给国产片或合拍片扫清道路。
Taking the Chinese box office crown for February was “From Vegas to Macau II” (also being released under the title “The Man from Macau II”), a gambling comedy directed by Wong Jing, which brought in $104 million. The historical action film “Dragon Blade,” starring Jackie Chan as a Han dynasty military commander and John Cusack and Adrien Brody as Roman soldiers, took second place, with $95 million in earnings. “Wolf Totem,” a Chinese-French co-production directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud and based on a best-selling Chinese novel, came in third, taking in $72 million.
中国二月份票房收入的冠军是《澳门风云2》（也以英文名“The Man from Macau II”发行），这是一部由王晶导演的赌博喜剧，其月度票房收入为1.04亿美元。由成龙主演的历史动作片《天将雄师》以9500万美元的票房收入位居第二，成龙在这部影片中扮演了一位汉代军事指挥官，约翰·库萨克(John Cusack)和阿德里安·布罗迪(Adrien Brody)分别扮演罗马士兵。 中国和法国联合制作、让-雅克·阿诺执导的《狼图腾》以7200万美元的收入位居第三，这是根据一部畅销中国小说改编的电影。
It is the latest milestone for the fast-growing film industry in China, currently the second-largest movie market behind the United States. The number of screens in China has risen to more than 23,500 in 2014 from about 4,100 in 2008, according to statista.com. In the United States, by contrast, the number of screens remained stable over the same period, hovering at just under 40,000.
月度票房首超美国是快速增长的中国电影产业的一个最新里程碑，目前中国是仅次于美国的第二大电影市场。据statista.com的统计，中国的放映银幕数量2008年约为4100个，到2014年已增加至逾23500个。相比之下，美国的银幕数量在同期保持稳定，徘徊在略低于4万个左右。