KIEV, Ukraine — Fighting intensified in the rebel-controlled region of Ukraine on Wednesday, with military officials reporting that two Ukrainian Su-25 fighter jets had been shot down near the village of Dmytrivka.
乌克兰基辅——在乌克兰叛军控制的地区，双方的交战在周三加剧，政府军官员报告说，有两架乌克兰的苏-25战斗机在德米特里夫卡(Dmytrivka)村附近被叛军击落。
Few details of the latest shootdowns were available. But before news of the downed fighter planes emerged, a spokesman for Ukraine’s National Security and Defense Council in Kiev said that the military operation to suppress the insurgents was advancing in the east, with government troops having retaken the cities of Severodonetsk and Popasna in the Luhansk region, as they continued an aggressive push from the north and west.
还没有关于最近飞机被击落的更详细情况。但是，在战斗机被击落的消息传出来之前，乌克兰国家安全和防务委员会(National Security and Defense Council)发言人在基辅说，平息叛乱分子的军事行动在东部地区有进展，政府军已夺回位于卢甘斯克地区的北顿涅茨克(Severodonetsk)和波帕斯纳(Popasna)这两座城市，政府军正从北部和西部继续推进。
Officials said that rebels had blown up a road bridge, railroad bridge and train tracks in the city of Gorlivka. And they said that there was continued fierce fighting along a section of the border with Russia that remains porous. Ukrainian forces are increasingly desperate to seal that border to prevent resupplies of weapons or new fighters from entering Ukraine.
官员说，叛乱分子在格尔洛夫卡(Gorlivka)城炸毁了一座公路桥、一座铁路桥和几段铁轨。他们说，在一个沿俄罗斯边界的地带，激烈的战斗仍在继续，这段边界仍可渗透，为了防止向乌克兰再提供武器或新的战斗力量，政府军为了封闭边界愈加不惜一切。
A Ukrainian military spokesman, Andriy Lysenko, said that Russia had increased its troop presence along the border and that there were increasing numbers of incidents of cross-border shooting.
乌克兰军方发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)说，俄罗斯在这段边境增加了驻军，跨境枪击事件的数量正在增加。
The downing of the two fighter jets was a serious blow to the Ukrainian military, which has limited air power.
两架战斗机被击落是对乌克兰军队的一个严重打击，乌军的空中力量本来就比较薄弱。
In Kharkiv, a government-controlled city where the bodies of most of the victims of last Thursday’s crash of a Malaysia Airlines jetliner were taken, a Dutch military plane loaded with coffins left for the Netherlands Wednesday morning, the first in a long series of flights to repatriate the bodies of 298 passengers and crew killed last week when a Russian-made missile downed the plane.
在政府控制的哈尔科夫市，上周四被击落的马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)喷气式客机上大多数遇难者的遗体已运到这里，一架装载着棺材的荷兰军用飞机在周三午间飞往荷兰，这是将遇难者遗体运送回家的一系列航班的首次，共有298名乘客和机组人员在这架飞机上周被俄罗斯制造的导弹击落时遇难。
At a ceremony before the departure of the Hercules transport on the sun-swept tarmac of Kharkiv International Airport, Ukrainian officials and foreign diplomats mixed solemn tributes to the dead with angry demands that those responsible for the shooting down of the jet be found and brought to justice.
在这架大力神运输机起飞前，哈尔科夫国际机场阳光普照的停机坪上举行了送别仪式，乌克兰官员和外国使节在仪式上表示了对死者的庄严悼念，同时用愤怒的言辞要求，要找到对击落客机负有责任的人，将他们绳之以法。
“This is a tragedy of unspeakable proportions,” an Australian representative, Angus Houston, told the gathering, flanked by a Ukrainian military honor guard dressed in black uniforms.
“这是一个无法形容的悲剧，”澳大利亚代表安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)对大家说，他的两边站着身穿黑色制服的乌克兰三军仪仗队。
“Those who are guilty for this terrorist act will be punished,” the Ukrainian vice prime minister, Volodymyr Groysman, said. He left no doubt that Ukraine believes the guilty parties are not only pro-Russian rebels into whose territory in eastern Ukraine the plane crashed last Thursday, but also Russia, asserting that “Russian military personnel launched the missile that hit a civilian Malaysian aircraft.”
“那些犯下这个恐怖主义罪行的人将受到惩罚，”乌克兰副总理弗拉基米尔·格罗伊斯曼(Volodymyr Groysman)说。他对一点毫不含糊，那就是乌克兰认为有罪的一方不仅是亲俄的叛乱分子，也包括俄罗斯，飞机于上周四在叛乱分子控制下的乌克兰东部领土坠毁，他声称，“俄罗斯军事人员发射的导弹击落了马来西亚的民用飞机。”
“We are today sending off innocents who were murdered,” he added.
他还说，“我们今天是在送别被屠杀的无辜者。”
Officers from the Kiev Military Academy, dressed in blue uniforms with yellow braid — the colors of the Ukrainian flag — carried four wooden coffins into the plane, which took off at noon bound for the Netherlands with 16 bodies on board, according to Dutch officials. A second plane from Australia was due to take 24 more bodies, also to the Netherlands, later on Wednesday. Although foreign officials at the ceremony called for justice, they did not assign blame. That stood in contrast to Mr. Groysman, who denounced what he called “Russian aggression” against Ukraine.
来自基辅军校的军官，身着蓝色制服和黄色装饰，(这是乌克兰国旗的颜色)，把4个木制棺材抬上飞机，飞机于中午起飞，载着16具遗体飞往荷兰，据荷兰官员说。周三晚些时候，来自澳大利亚的第二架飞机将运出24具遗体，也送到荷兰。虽然外国官员在仪式上呼吁伸张正义，但他们并没有认定谁有罪。这与格罗伊斯曼形成鲜明对照，格罗伊斯曼谴责了他称之为针对乌克兰的“俄罗斯侵略行径”。
As the plane carrying the first bodies took off, a Ukrainian woman waved a hand-drawn sign reading “Judge Putin in the Hague,” a reference to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
随着载有第一批遗体的飞机起飞，一名乌克兰妇女挥舞着一个标志，上面有手写的几个字：“把普京送上海牙法庭，”她指的是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)。
The woman, Alexandra Kharchenko, a 39-year-old designer who lives in Kharkiv, said the Russian president should be called before an international tribunal. She accused Mr. Putin of encouraging and arming the pro-Russian separatists whom Ukraine and the United States have accused of firing the surface-to-air missile that downed the passenger jet.
这位名叫亚历山德拉·哈尔钦科(Alexandra Kharchenko)的女子是家住哈尔科夫的39岁的设计师，她说，俄罗斯总统应该被传呼上国际法庭。她指责普京怂恿亲俄分裂分子，为他们提供武器，乌克兰和美国都指责分裂分子发射了击落客机的地对空导弹。
“I just want to draw attention to who is ultimately responsible for this crime,” Ms. Kharchenko said.
“我只是想在谁对这个罪行负最终责任的问题上引起大家的注意，”哈尔钦科说。
The Kremlin and the rebels have repeatedly denied any role in shooting down the Malaysia Airlines plane, which was en route to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, from Amsterdam, and have said the blame lies with Ukraine.
克里姆林宫和叛军已多次否认与击落马航班机有关，并表示责任在乌克兰，该航班是在从阿姆斯特丹飞往马来西亚吉隆坡的途中被击落的。
A representative for the Dutch government at the farewell ceremony in Kharkiv called for patience in assessing exactly what happened. He cautioned that even identifying the bodies — a task that will be carried out by Dutch specialists at a laboratory in the Netherlands — would be a long and laborious process.
在哈尔科夫出席送别仪式的荷兰政府代表呼吁，在调查到底发生了什么上要有耐心。他提醒说，就连确认遗体的工作也将是一个漫长而艰苦的过程，这项工作将由荷兰专家在荷兰的一个实验室进行。
The bodies, held for days by the pro-Russian rebels who control the crash site, were delivered to Kharkiv by rail on Tuesday, along with the data and voice recorders from the doomed plane. It will take at least several days for experts to unload five refrigerated railway cars at a Soviet-era tank factory in Kharkiv, place the bodies in coffins and transport them by air to the Netherlands.
遗体被控制着坠机现场的亲俄叛军扣留了好几天，后于周二用火车送到了哈尔科夫，送来的还有这架厄运飞机上的飞行数据和语音记录器。专家至少需要几天的时间，才能完成把停在哈尔科夫一个苏联时代坦克工厂的5节冷藏火车厢里的遗体卸下来，装进棺材，把它们空运到荷兰的工作。
“Today your journey home begins. It will still be a long journey. We have started a process that will take time,” said Hans Docter, the Dutch representative. “We have to do this right. The eyes of the world are upon us.”
“你们的回家之旅今天开始。这仍将是一个漫长的旅程。我们已经开始了一个需要很长时间的过程，”荷兰代表汉斯·多克特尔(Hans Docter)说。“我们必须把这项工作做好。全世界的眼睛都在盯着我们。”
In Britain, the Department for Transportation confirmed in a statement Wednesday that both the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder from Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 had been delivered by Dutch investigators to the department’s Air Accidents Investigation Branch.
英国运输部周三在一份声明中证实，MH17航班上的飞行数据记录器和驾驶舱语音记录器，已由荷兰调查人员移交给该部的航空事故调查局。