Call me lazy, but I’m not big on exercise. For most of my adult life, my weight stayed the same no matter how much I ate or didn’t work out.
你可以说我懒，我的确不太擅长运动。不过在成年的大部分时间里，不管吃多少，不管运动与否，我的体重一直保持不变。
Then I turned 35 (three years ago), and my metabolism started to slow. At first, I blamed the clothes dryer when my pants no longer fit, but I couldn’t deny time for long. I knew I had to start exercising.
三年前我35岁，新陈代谢开始变慢了。裤子刚开始不合身时，我怪罪起了衣服烘干机，可后来我无法再回避问题，不得不开始锻炼。
The only problem was, I couldn’t. I have such a pathetic inability to focus that I get bored with running while I’m putting on my sneakers.
问题是，实践起来我很难做到。我的精神集中能力简直具有缺陷。一穿上运动鞋，就对跑步产生厌烦。
As a tech columnist, I followed my first instinct and turned to technology, including fitness bands like Nike Fuelband and Jawbone Up, but none worked. These devices seemed to be better at marketing than motivating me.
作为一名科技专栏的作家，我遵从了自己的第一直觉，向科技求助，比如使用耐克Fuelband和Jawbone Up一类的运动腕带，可惜它们都不奏效。这些设备似乎更能在市场推广上发挥功用，而不是激励我进行锻炼。
Then I switched to iPhone apps, including RunKeeper, which tracked my paltry runs, and the 7 Minute Workout, which was seven minutes too long. None of those could combat my immense boredom.
后来我又开始使用iPhone应用程序，例如RunKeeper，它能记录我微不足道的跑步量，还提供“七分钟锻炼法 (7 Minute Workout)”，结果我发现七分钟也还是太漫长了。这些方法没有一个可以帮助我战胜强烈厌倦的情绪。
The solution, perhaps not surprisingly, was to get as far away from technology as I could.
解决办法大概并不令人意外：远离科技，越远越好。
I tried surfing and rock climbing, which kept me somewhat engaged, but the real answer, at least for me, was tai chi, a Chinese martial art that mixes graceful motions with meditation. (If boxing and yoga had a baby, it might look like tai chi.)
我开始尝试冲浪和攀岩，这些多少能让我集中些注意力。不过真正的解决之道，至少对我来说，是太极。太极是中国的一种武术，将优雅的动作与冥思结合起来（看起来可能像拳击和瑜伽的融合体）。
I explored group classes, but found it best to start by taking private lessons with Master Qichen Guo, who said he immediately recognized that my “mind was too busy” and that it could be “calmed” through tai chi. I was skeptical, but Mr. Guo turned out to be right.
我研究了一些大班课程，却发现最好还是先上郭祺祯（音译）大师的私人课程，他说他很快发现我的“头脑思绪太多”，可以通过太极“平静下来”。对此我很是怀疑，结果证明郭先生是对的。
As I focused on learning the balancing movements, the distractions seemed to float away, including the catcalls in my head to check Twitter every nanosecond. (My teacher also demonstrated how he could throw me to the floor with barely any effort.)
在集中注意力学习平衡运动时，我的那些分心思绪似乎飘走了，包括头脑里每一毫微秒都在诱惑着我察看Twitter的喧闹提示音（我的老师还向我展示他如何能毫不费力地把我摔倒在地）。
There are (surprisingly) few apps for tai chi, but there are thousands of (mostly low-quality) YouTube videos.
（令人意外的是）几乎没有关于太极的应用程序，YouTube上倒是有上万个关于太极的（大多是低水平的）视频。
Yet it turned out I would be able to combine exercise and technology after all.
最终，我还是把锻炼和科技结合起来了。
To practice at home, Mr. Guo told me to use my smartphone to record his movements so I could watch and imitate them between lessons.
为了在家练习，郭老师让我用智能手机把他的动作录下来，以便课下跟着模仿。
Which is working out well, though I have to put my smartphone in airplane mode, or I’ll get distracted by the Internet.
这种方法很有效，尽管我必须把智能手机调成飞行模式，不然就会被互联网分神。