BROOKLINE, MASS. 
马萨诸塞州的布鲁克莱恩镇(BROOKLINE, MASS.)
WHAT: A Jacobean house with seven bedrooms, four full bathrooms and one half-bathroom
待售房产：一栋詹姆士一世(Jacobean)风格的住宅，带七间卧室、四间卫浴和一间卫生间
HOW MUCH: $2,995,000
价格：299.5万美元（约合人民币1913万元）
SIZE: 5,631 square feet
面积：5631平方英尺（约180平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $532
每平方英尺单价：532美元（每平方米约合人民币3.7万元）
SETTING: Brookline, population around 58,800, is a town about five miles from downtown Boston. This 1897 Jacobean-style house is in Fisher Hill, a neighborhood and historic district of sloping tree-lined roads and grand 19th-century houses near Boston College. Much of the neighborhood was landscaped and laid out by Frederick Law Olmsted and John Charles Olmsted. An elementary school is a few blocks away, as are a town playground and stops for the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority train. The trip into Boston takes about a half-hour.
周边环境：布鲁克莱恩是一座与波士顿市中心相距约5英里（约8公里）的小镇，人口大约58800。这栋始建于1879年的詹姆士一世风格的住宅位于费希尔山(Fisher Hill)，那里是波士顿学院(Boston College)附近一个历史区与住宅区，有许多绿树夹道的斜坡路和华丽的十九世纪别墅。该社区的大部分地方都有弗雷德里克·劳·奥姆斯特德(Frederick Law Olmsted)和约翰·查尔斯·奥姆斯特德(John Charles Olmsted)设计的景观与布局。一座小学就在几条街区之外的地方，那里还有一座镇上的运动场，以及马萨诸塞湾交通局(Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority)列车的几个站点。从这里前往波士顿大约需要半小时。
INDOORS: Original features of the three-story brick house include hardwood floors, oak woodwork and paneling, mantels and plaster ceiling medallions, as well as arched entryways and stone pediments on the facade.
室内环境：这栋三层楼的砖砌房屋里铺着实木地板，有橡木制成的木构件，还有镶板、壁炉架和天花板的圆形石膏吊顶，以及一座拱门和外立面上的石山墙。
The first floor has double parlors flanking the foyer: one with a plaster ceiling decorated with ornate hand-carved depictions of musical instruments; the other paneled almost entirely with oak, including the large hand-carved mantel. Both are about 300 square feet, with 10-foot ceilings.
在房屋一楼的门厅两侧各有一间会客室：其中一间做了石膏天花板，上面带有精致的手雕乐器图；另一间几乎全贴着橡木镶板，包括那座有手雕工艺的大壁炉架。两间会客室的面积大约都是300平方英尺（约28平方米），天花板高达10英尺（约3米）。
The dining room opens to an updated kitchen with Bulthaup cabinetry and stainless-steel appliances and stainless-steel surfaces. Some of the brick walls were left exposed during renovations, which were done about 12 years ago. Floors are Marmoleum, a natural linoleum. The room opens to two back decks, both measuring around 400 square feet. The first floor also has an office.
餐厅通往一间翻修过的厨房，厨房里有布尔托(Bulthaup)的橱柜和一些不锈钢电器，以及不锈钢的台面。在十二年前完成的那次翻修期间曾保留了一部分暴露在外的砖墙。厨房的地上铺着梦梵丽(Marmoleum)的天然亚麻地毡。这个房间通往两处面积约400平方英尺（约37平方米）的后平台。一楼还有一间办公室。
Bedrooms are on the second and third floors. The second-floor master has a fireplace and double closets, as well as an en-suite bathroom with a steam shower and a soaking tub. Several of the other bedrooms also have fireplaces. The basement is finished with a game room and an exercise room, as well as an additional toilet and sink. There’s also a three-car garage.
几间卧室分别位于二楼和三楼。二楼的主卧里有一座壁炉和两个衣柜，还有一间配套的浴室，里面带一间蒸汽淋浴房和一台沉浸式浴缸。其他卧室中有几间也有壁炉。这栋房屋的地下室里配备了一间游戏室和一间健身房，还有间带盥洗池的卫生间。另有一间三车位的车库。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is about a third of an acre, with a yard and a brick patio, as well as two wood decks.
户外空间：该房产占地面积约三分之一英亩（约1348平方米），带一座院子、一处砖砌的露台和两处木平台。
TAXES: Approximately $23,469 a year
税：每年大约23469美元（约合人民币15万元）
CONTACT: Jayne Friedberg, Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, (617) 899-2111; jaynefriedbergrealestate.com
联系方式：Jayne Friedberg, Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, (617) 899-2111; jaynefriedbergrealestate.com
•
BALTIMORE
巴尔的摩市(BALTIMORE)
WHAT: A penthouse condo with three bedrooms, three full bathrooms and one half-bath
待售房产：一套顶层豪华共管公寓，带三间卧室、三间卫浴和一间卫生间
HOW MUCH: $2,990,000
价格：299万美元（约合人民币1910万元）
SIZE: 4,998 square feet
面积：4998平方英尺（约464平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $598
每平方英尺单价：598美元（每平方米约合人民币4.1万元）
SETTING: This condo is on the top floor of a converted grain elevator in Locust Point, a peninsular neighborhood on the Patapsco River. Most of the surrounding area is light industrial or residential, with pockets of well-preserved Federal-style townhouses originally built for harbor workers set among bars, restaurants and new construction. At the end of the peninsula is Fort McHenry, where Francis Scott Key was inspired to write “The Star-Spangled Banner.” Downtown is about four miles away; the building has easy access to I-95.
周边环境：这套共管公寓在一栋带升降梯的改建谷仓楼顶层，位于帕塔普斯科河(Patapsco River)上的洛克斯特波因特(Locust Point)半岛社区中。该社区周围大部分地方是轻工业区或住宅区，有成片保存完好的联邦式排屋，这些房屋最初是为码头的工人们建造的，至今仍伫立在许多酒吧、餐厅和新建筑之中。这座半岛的尽头是麦克亨利要塞(Fort McHenry)，那里就是弗朗西斯·斯科特·基(Francis Scott Key)获得灵感创作了《星条旗之歌》(The Star-Spangled Banner)的地方。市中心距此大约四英里（约6.4公里）；从该建筑所在地可轻松前往I-95公路。
INDOORS: The 24-story tower was converted to residences in 2009. This two-story unit, one of two penthouses, is sleek and airy, with walls of glass and exposed steel beams throughout, facing 360-degree views of the city skyline and the Patapsco River.
室内环境：这栋24层的大厦在2009年被改建成了住宅楼。这个复式单元是两套顶层豪华公寓中的一套，该公寓的内部装修光鲜亮丽，屋内宽敞通风，有几面玻璃墙和一些暴露在外的钢梁，从公寓内可全方位观赏这座城市的天际线与帕塔普斯科河的景色。
The rectangular living room has 18-foot ceilings and intersecting walls of glass on three sides. At the other end of the first floor is a family room with a fireplace. Floors are glossy gray oak; the LED lighting, designed by Lumens, runs on Lutron controls. The unit is also wired for sound and streaming music throughout.
这间矩形的客厅里有18英尺（约5.5米）高的天花板，三面有垂直相交的玻璃墙。公寓一楼的另一端是间带壁炉的家庭娱乐室。地上铺着光滑的灰橡木地板；这盏由Lumens公司设计的LED照明灯具以路创(Lutron)电路板控制开关。该公寓还在屋内各处安装了音响和流媒体音乐设备。
The kitchen was custom designed by Northfield Sales in Baltimore. Counters are Mont Blanc marble with a herringbone Carrara marble backsplash. Appliances are mostly Sub-Zero and Wolf; the sink has Grohe faucets.
厨房是由巴尔的摩市的Northfield Sales公司按定制设计的。台面采用了勃朗峰(Mont Blanc)的大理石，并带一块有人字斜纹的卡拉拉(Carrara)大理石后挡板。厨房里的电器大部分是Sub-Zero和Wolf品牌的；水槽里安装了高仪(Grohe)水龙头。
Stairs lead to the second level and a sitting area. The bedrooms are on this floor. The master bathroom has two sinks and a stainless-steel shower with a stacked-stone wall. The free-standing soaking tub has a view of the water. Countertops are marble. The second floor also has a den.
有一段楼梯可通往二楼和一处休息区。几间卧室都在这一层。主卧里有两个盥洗池和一间带一面堆叠石墙的不锈钢淋浴房。从这台可挪动的沉浸式站脚浴缸处可看见外面的水景。这里的几处台面都用了大理石。二楼还有一间小房。
Building amenities include a 24-hour attendant and a fitness center. The unit conveys with two garage spaces.
这栋大楼的便利设施包括一位24小时侍者和一家健身中心。该公寓带两个停车位一起出售。
OUTDOOR SPACE: A large terrace off the living room.
户外空间：客厅外有一处大平台。
TAXES: Approximately $24,202 a year and $2,498 a month in condo fees
税：每年约24202美元（约合人民币15.5万元），外加每月2498美元（约合人民币1.6万元）的共管公寓费。
CONTACT: Paul Sudano, Monument Sotheby’s International Realty, (410) 456-8449; sothebysrealty.com
联系方式：Paul Sudano, Monument Sotheby’s International Realty, (410) 456-8449; sothebysrealty.com
•
MINNEAPOLIS
明尼阿波利斯市(MINNEAPOLIS)
WHAT: A lakefront contemporary with five bedrooms, five full bathrooms and one half-bathroom
待售房产：一栋湖滨当代住宅，带五间卧室、五间卫浴和一间卫生间
HOW MUCH: $2,995,000
价格：299.5万美元（约合人民币1913万元）
SIZE: 8,605 square feet
面积：8605平方英尺（约800平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $348
每平方英尺单价：348美元（每平方米约合人民币2.4万元）
SETTING: This house is on a horseshoe-shaped road fronting Cedar Lake and the Kenilworth Channel in the Calhoun-Isles neighborhood of Minneapolis. The neighborhood is an affluent pocket of grand, often older houses on and around Lake Calhoun and Lake of the Isles, both of which are ringed by parkland and walking trails that extend into downtown, a few miles away. The Walker Art Center and other museums are nearby, too.
周边环境：这栋房屋位于明尼阿波利斯市卡尔霍恩-群岛(Calhoun-Isles)社区中的一条马蹄铁形道路旁边，面对着雪松湖(Cedar Lake)和凯尼尔沃思航道(Kenilworth Channel)。该社区是个富庶之地，在卡尔霍恩湖(Lake Calhoun)与群岛湖(Lake of the Isles)上及其周边地带分布着许多华丽的老房屋，这两座湖被开阔的草地和散步的小径环绕着，这些小径延伸到了几英里外的市中心区。沃克艺术中心(Walker Art Center)和其他一些博物馆也在附近。
The house has direct access to Cedar Lake. Hockey and skating are popular in winter; canoeing, swimming and fishing in the summer. Roads are curving; sidewalks are lined with maple and ash trees.
这栋房屋直接通往雪松湖。冬天这里流行曲棍球和滑冰；夏天则是划船、游泳和钓鱼。这里的公路蜿蜒曲折；人行道两旁种着枫树和灰树。
INDOORS: The low-lying house was built of Minnesota limestone in 1949, and renovated and expanded in the 1990s. It has two floors, one at street level and a lower level following the grade of the land.
室内环境：这栋位于低洼处的住宅于1949年以明尼苏达州石灰岩建造而成，后来在20世纪90年代进行过翻修和扩建。该房屋有两层，一层与街道平齐，一层依地势修建在较低处。
The interior is open and bright, with walls of glass facing the lake. Texture is important to this house, with stark lines offset by stone, flagstone and wood floors. Track lighting throughout was designed to highlight art. The living room measures more than 600 square feet, with walls of glass and a wood-burning fireplace with a marble surround. The formal dining room, nearly as large as the living room, has stone floors and skylights. Sliding glass doors open to a courtyard and a lakeside deck.
屋内宽敞明亮，有几面对着湖的玻璃墙。对这栋房屋而言，构造十分重要，屋内的鲜明线条被石块、石板和木地板缓和了。屋内各处都装有活动式投射灯照明用来突显艺术品。客厅面积超过了600平方英尺（约56平方米），有几面玻璃墙和一座周围贴着大理石的燃木壁炉。这间正式的餐厅几乎和客厅一样大，地上铺着石头，顶上装了天窗。这里有一扇滑动玻璃门通往一座庭院和一处湖滨平台。
A family room with water views opens to a sunroom with a vaulted ceiling. The focal point of the kitchen is a modernist wood-paneled riff on a vaulted ceiling, with a skylight in the middle that funnels light to a center island that has white Corian countertops and blond cabinets. Appliances include two Thermador ovens, a four-burner stainless-steel cooktop, a Sub-Zero refrigerator and a built-in Brewmatic coffee system. In a corner of the room, there’s a wood-burning fireplace with a white tile surround.
屋内有一间带湖景的家庭娱乐室可通往一间有穹顶天花板的暖房。厨房里的焦点是穹顶天花板上的一道现代风格的镶着木板的脊线，中间带了一扇天窗，正好让光线落在了一座中央岛台上，这座岛台有白色可丽耐(Corian)的台面，并配了几个金色的橱柜。厨房里的电器包括两台Thermador的烤箱、一台有四个炉头的不锈钢灶台、一台Sub-Zero的冰箱和一套内嵌式的Brewmatic咖啡系统。在厨房的一个角落里还有一座周围贴着白色瓷砖的燃木壁炉。
Among the house’s most distinctive features are its spa and indoor pool. The spa has off-white stone floors, frosted glass windows and a sauna; the pool room is almost entirely cast in gray stone, with a stone hot tub, sconce lighting and a vaulted ceiling with skylights. Sliding glass doors face the lake.
这栋房屋最突出的特点是其温泉浴室和室内游泳池。这间温泉浴室里铺着灰白色的石材地板，有几扇磨砂玻璃窗和一间桑拿房；而这座室内游泳池几乎全部是用灰色的石块砌成的，还带了一台石砌热水浴缸，以及壁凸式照明和带天窗的穹顶天花板。房间里的玻璃推拉门对着外面的湖泊。
Three bedrooms, including the master, are on the main floor. The master is part of a suite with a vaulted wood ceiling, walls of glass and a gas fireplace with a stone surround, as well as built-in shelves for A/V equipment. One of its two walk-in closets is cedar. The master bath has a stone floor, recessed lighting, heated towel bars, a free-standing Kohler tub under a window with water views, and two vanities, each with a Corian countertop.
三间卧室都在主楼层，其中包括了主卧室。这间主卧室属于一个套间，这里有穹顶木天花板、几面玻璃墙和一座带石砌壁炉台的燃气壁炉，以及几个内嵌式的置物架用来摆放音频/视频(A/V)设备。两个步入式的衣柜中有一个是雪松木材质的。主卧浴室里铺着石地板，有隐蔽式照明和加热式毛巾台，还有一台可挪动的科勒(Kohler)站脚浴缸摆在一扇窗户下面，从那里可以看见湖面的景色。另外还有两个洗手台，每个洗手台都有可丽耐(Corian)的台面。
The remaining two bedrooms are downstairs, as is a second kitchen, a workshop and a screened porch with a lakeside patio. Both downstairs bedrooms face the water. An additional 2,425 square feet of unfinished space downstairs is used as storage. The lower level also has a greenhouse. The attached garage has room for two cars.
另外两间卧室都在楼下，那里还有第二间厨房、一个工作间和一条带湖边露台的封闭式门廊。楼下的两间卧室都面对着这座湖。这里还有一处2425平方英尺（约225平方米）的未装修空间可用于存放物品。楼下这层还带了一间温室。旁边的半独立式车库可停放两辆车。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is about 0.6 acres, much of it wooded, with a sandy point by the water.
户外空间：该房产占地面积大约0.6英亩（约2428平方米），大部分地方树木茂盛，还有一小片湖滩。
TAXES: Approximately $43,617 a year
税：每年约43617美元（约合人民币28万元）。
CONTACT: Bruce Birkeland, Coldwell Banker Burnet, (612) 414-3957; birkelandandburnet.com
联系方式：Bruce Birkeland, Coldwell Banker Burnet, (612) 414-3957; birkelandandburnet.com