It was 2005, and Felix Sater, a Russian immigrant, was back in Moscow pursuing an ambitious plan to build a Trump tower on the site of an old pencil factory along the Moscow River that would offer hotel rooms, condominiums and commercial office space.
那是在2005年，俄罗斯移民费利克斯·萨塔尔(Felix Sater)回到莫斯科，致力于推进一项雄心勃勃的计划：在莫斯科河边一座老铅笔厂旧址上，建造一栋有酒店客房、公寓和商业办公空间的特朗普大厦。
Letters of intent had been signed and square footage was being analyzed. “There was an opportunity to explore building Trump towers internationally,” said Sater, who worked for a New York-based development company that was a partner with Donald Trump on a variety of deals during that decade. “And Russia was one of those countries.”
意向书已经签订，面积分析已经开始。“当时有机会探索在其他国家建造特朗普大厦的可能性，”为总部设在纽约的一家房地产开发公司工作的萨塔尔说。该公司在那个十年里和唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)就多种业务开展过合作。“而俄罗斯就是其中的一个国家。”
The president-elect’s favorable comments about President Vladimir Putin of Russia and the conclusion of U.S. intelligence officials that Moscow acted to help Trump’s campaign have focused attention on Trump’s business interests in Russia. Asked about the issue at his news conference last week,Trump was emphatic on one point: “I have no dealings with Russia.” And he repeated: “I have no deals that could happen in Russia because we’ve stayed away.”
特朗普对俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的好评，以及美国情报官员得出的莫斯科曾采取行动帮助特朗普竞选总统的结论，让这位候任总统在俄罗斯的商业利益备受关注。上周新闻发布会上被问及此事，特朗普强调了一点：“我和俄罗斯没有生意往来。”他还重申：“我不可能在俄罗斯开展任何业务，因为我们与之保持了距离。”
The project on the old pencil factory site ultimately fizzled. And by the time Trump entered the presidential race, he had failed to get any real estate development off the ground in Russia. But it was not for lack of trying.
铅笔厂旧址上的那个项目最终告吹了。到特朗普参加总统竞选的时候，他还没能在俄罗斯的土地上做成任何一个房地产开发项目。但这并不是因为没尝试过。
Trump repeatedly sought business in Russia as far back as 1987, when he traveled there to explore building a hotel. He applied for his trademark in the country as early as 1996. And his children and associates have appeared in Moscow over and over in search of joint ventures, meeting with developers and government officials.
特朗普曾多次在俄罗斯寻求业务机会，最早可以追溯到1987年，他于那一年到访俄罗斯，想要看看能否在那里建造一座酒店。早在1996年，他就在俄罗斯申请注册了自己的商标。此外，他的子女和助手曾数度出现在莫斯科，与开发商和政府官员碰面，寻求创办合资企业。
During a trip in 2006, Sater and two of Trump’s children, Donald Jr. and Ivanka, stayed at the historic Hotel National Moscow across from the Kremlin, connecting with potential partners during the course of several days.
在2006年的一趟行程中，萨塔尔和特朗普的两名子女——小唐纳德(Donald Jr)及伊万卡(Ivanka)——住在克里姆林宫对面历史悠久的莫斯科国家酒店(Hotel National Moscow)，与潜在合作伙伴进行了为期数天的接触。
As recently as 2013, Donald Trump was in Moscow. He had sold Russian real estate developers the right to host his Miss Universe pageant that year, and he used the visit as a chance to discuss development deals, writing on Twitter at the time: “TRUMP TOWER-MOSCOW is next.”
就在2013年，唐纳德·特朗普还到过莫斯科。已经把环球小姐(Miss Universe)赛事当年的主办权卖给俄罗斯房地产开发商的他，借到访之机讨论了开发业务，还在Twitter上写道：“下一步是莫斯科特朗普大厦。”
As the Russian market opened up in the post-Soviet Union era, Trump and his partners pursued Russians who were newly flush with cash to buy apartments in Trump Towers in New York and Florida, sales that he boasted about in a 2014 interview. “I know the Russians better than anybody,” Trump told Michael D’Antonio, a Trump biographer who shared unpublished interview transcripts with The New York Times.
当俄罗斯市场在后苏联时代走向开放的时候，特朗普及其合作伙伴追逐着新近快速致富的俄罗斯人，让那些人购买纽约和佛罗里达州特朗普大厦内的公寓，他曾在2014年的一次采访中夸耀当时的业绩。“我比任何人都要了解俄罗斯人，”特朗普告诉其传记作者迈克尔·丹东尼奥(Michael D'Antonio)。后者和《纽约时报》分享了未发表的访谈文字记录。
Seeking deals in Russia became part of a broader strategy to expand the Trump brand worldwide. By the mid-2000s, Trump was transitioning to mostly licensing his name to hotel, condominium and commercial towers rather than building or investing in real estate. He discovered that his name was especially attractive in developing countries where the rising rich aspired to the type of ritzy glamour he personified.
在俄罗斯寻找机会，成了把特朗普品牌拓展到全世界这一大战略的组成部分。到2000年代中期，特朗普转换了思路——在房地产领域，他基本上是授权酒店、公寓和商业楼使用其名字，而非自己去盖楼或进行投资。他发现，他的名字在发展中国家尤其具有吸引力，那些国家日益崛起的富人群体渴望那种以他为化身的奢华光环。
When asked about Trump’s claim that he had “stayed away” from Russia, Alan Garten, general counsel for the Trump Organization, said it was a fair characterization given that none of the development opportunities ever materialized. Trump’s interest in Russia, he said, was no different from his attraction to other emerging markets in which he investigated possible ventures. Garten did not respond to questions about whom Trump met with in Moscow in 2013 and what was discussed.
当被问及怎么看待特朗普宣称自己和俄罗斯“保持了距离”时，特朗普集团(Trump Organization)的法律总顾问阿兰·加腾(Alan Garten)表示，鉴于所有开发机会都没有变成现实中的项目，这话并没说错。加腾说，特朗普对俄罗斯的兴趣和他对其他新兴市场的兴趣没什么两样，他也研究过在那些地方做生意的可能性。当被问及特朗普于2013年在莫斯科见了谁、跟对方讨论了什么时，加腾没有作答。
Stalking Deals in Moscow
在莫斯科悄悄达成交易
Ted Liebman, an architect based in New York, got the call in 1996. Trump and Liggett-Ducat, a U.S. tobacco company that owned property in Moscow, wanted to build a high-end residential development near an old Russian Olympic stadium. As they prepared to meet with officials in Moscow, they needed sketches of the Trump tower they envisioned.
1996年，纽约建筑设计师特德·利布曼(Ted Liebman)接到了一个电话。特朗普和在莫斯科拥有房产的美国烟草公司杜卡(Liggett-Ducat)，想要在俄罗斯一个老奥运场馆附近做一个高端住宅开发项目。他们正准备到莫斯科会见一些官员，需要有人按照他们的设想绘出那座特朗普大厦的草图。
The architect scrambled to meet the request, handing over plans to Trump at his Manhattan office. “I hope we can do this,” Liebman recalled Trump telling him.
为了满足这一需求，利布曼紧赶慢赶，最终在特朗普位于曼哈顿的办公室里向其递交了设计方案。“我希望我们能把这件事做成，”利布曼记得特朗普当时这样告诉他。
Soon after, Trump was in Russia, promoting the proposal and singing the praises of the Russian market.
不久后，特朗普到了俄罗斯，一边推销该方案，一边对俄罗斯市场大唱赞歌。
“I’ve seen cities all over the world. Some I’ve liked, some I haven’t,” Trump said at a news conference in Moscow in 1996, according to The Moscow Times. But he added that he didn’t think he had ever been “as impressed with the potential of a city as I have been with Moscow.”
“我看遍了世界各地的城市。有些我很喜欢，有些则不太喜欢，”据《莫斯科时报》(Moscow Times)报道，1996年，特朗普在莫斯科出席新闻发布会时说道。他还表示，但他认为“其他任何一座城市的潜力都没有像莫斯科这样，给我留下如此深刻的印象”。
Trump had been eyeing the potential for nearly a decade, expressing interest to government officials ranging from Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev (they first met in Washington in 1987) to military figure Alexander Lebed.
特朗普在将近十年的时间里一直觊觎着这种潜力，并向包括苏联领导人米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)和军方人物亚历山大·列别德(Alexander Lebed)在内的政府官员表达了自己的兴趣。他于1987年和前者在华盛顿初次见面。
The 1996 project never materialized, but by then Trump was well known in Russia. Moscow was in the midst of a construction boom, which transformed the capital from a drab, post-Soviet expanse into a sparkly modern city.
1996年的那个项目计划从未付诸实施，但特朗普随后便在俄罗斯出了名。莫斯科当时正处于一轮建设热潮之中，那轮热潮把莫斯科从后苏联时代一片死气沉沉的广袤地区变成了熠熠生辉的现代都市。
Yuri M. Luzhkov, Moscow’s mayor at the time, said in an interview that he had met with Trump and showed him plans for a massive underground shopping mall just outside the Kremlin gates. Trump suggested connecting it to the Metro, “a very important observation,” Luzhkov said. Today, visitors to the Okhotny Ryad shopping center can go straight from the Metro to the Calvin Klein store without venturing into the cold.
莫斯科市时任市长尤里·M·卢日科夫(Yuri M. Luzhkov)接受采访时表示，他和特朗普见了面，并向对方展示了在克里姆林宫外修建一个庞大的地下购物中心的方案。特朗普建议把购物中心和地铁连接起来，卢日科夫说这是一个“非常重要的意见”。现如今，前往奥克霍亚德(Okhotny Ryad)购物中心的游客可以直接从地铁奔赴Calvin Klein门店，而不必经受室外寒冷空气的侵袭。
In the following years, Trump’s pursuit of Russia was strengthened by a growing circle of partners and associates in Canada and the United States who had roots in the region. Among them were Tevfik Arif, a former Soviet-era commerce official originally from Kazakhstan who founded a development company called the Bayrock Group, and Sater, a partner in the firm, who had moved to New York from Russia as a child.
接下来的若干年里，特朗普对俄罗斯的追逐变得更为热烈，因为他在加拿大和美国有了越来越多的来自那一地区的合作关系。其中包括房地产开发公司贝罗克集团(Bayrock Group)的创办者陶菲克·阿里夫(Tevfik Arif)，此人来自哈萨克斯坦，在苏联时代当过商业官员；以及该公司的合伙人、自小便从俄罗斯移居纽约的萨塔尔。
Bayrock was in Trump Tower, two floors below the Trump Organization. While working to take Trump-branded towers to Arizona, Florida and New York’s SoHo neighborhood, Bayrock also began scouting for deals in Russia and other countries.
贝罗克集团位于特朗普大厦里，在特朗普集团楼下隔着两层。该公司一边致力于把以特朗普为品牌的大厦引入亚利桑那州、佛罗里达州和纽约的休南区，一边开始在俄罗斯以及其他国家寻找业务机会。
“We looked at some very, very large properties in Russia,” Sater said. “Think of a large Vegas high-rise.”
“我们在俄罗斯考虑一些非常非常大的物业，”萨塔尔说。“就类似拉斯维加斯的摩天大楼。”
When Sater traveled to Moscow with Ivanka and Donald Trump Jr. to meet with developers in 2006, he said their attitude could be summarized as “nice, big city, great. Let’s do a deal here.”
当萨塔尔在2006年和小唐纳德及伊万卡一起到访莫斯科，会见开发商的时候，他说他们当时的想法可以概括为“不错，大城市，真棒。咱们可以在这里谈一笔生意”。
Vodka, Yes; Development, No
伏特加，有；房地产开发，没有
The Trump brand did appear in Russia, but not quite as the grand edifice the real estate mogul had envisioned.
特朗普的品牌的确出现在了俄罗斯，但不是以这名房地产大亨设想中的宏伟大厦为依托。
Trump Super Premium Vodka, with the shine of bottles glazed with 24-karat gold, was presented at the Millionaire’s Fair in Moscow in 2007, and large orders for the spirits followed. The vodka was sold in Russia as late as 2009, but eventually fizzled out. In a news release, Trump heralded it as a “tremendous achievement.”
富世生活峰荟活动(Millionaire’s Fair)于2007年在莫斯科举办的时候，特朗普至尊伏特加(Trump Super Premium Vodka)曾经参展，这种烈酒的大额订单随后纷至沓来。特朗普至尊伏特加直至2009年才在俄罗斯上市，但最终消失了。在一份新闻稿里，特朗普称之为一项“巨大的成就”。
Donald Trump was back in Moscow in 2013, attending the Miss Universe pageant, which he owned with NBC.
2013年，唐纳德·特朗普回到莫斯科，参加他和NBC共同拥有的环球小姐选美大赛。
Earlier that year, at the Miss USA pageant in Las Vegas, he had announced that Aras and Emin Agalarov, father and son real estate developers in Russia, would host the worldwide competition.
那年早些时候，他在拉斯维加斯举行的“美国小姐”(Miss USA)选美比赛上宣布，俄罗斯地产商父子阿拉斯和埃明·阿加拉罗夫(Emin Agalarov)将主办当年的全球决赛。
Erin Brady, that year’s Miss USA winner, who watched the announcement from backstage of the auditorium at Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino, said the news was a surprise. She was expecting one of the Latin American countries where beauty pageants are widely celebrated.
那年的“美国小姐”得主埃琳·布拉迪(Erin Brady)表示，在位于好莱坞星球赌场度假酒店(Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino)内的礼堂后台看到这条消息时，她感到十分意外。她原以为会在一个拉丁美洲国家举办，在那里选美比赛非常普遍。
“I was like, ‘Wow, Russia, I never thought of that,'” she said.
“我当时的反应是，‘哇，俄罗斯，真没想到，’”她说。
Phil Ruffin, Trump’s partner in the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Las Vegas, said he was happy to lend him his new Global 5000 private plane for the trip. He and his wife met Trump in Moscow, also checking in to the Ritz-Carlton. Ruffin said he and Trump had lunch at the hotel with the Agalarovs.
特朗普位于拉斯维加斯的特朗普国际酒店大厦(Trump International Hotel and Tower)的合伙人菲尔·拉芬(Phil Ruffin)表示，他很乐意贡献出自己新买的私人飞机Global 5000，用于这次旅程。他和妻子在莫斯科与特朗普会面，也下榻在丽思卡尔顿酒店(Ritz-Carlton)。拉芬表示，他和特朗普在这座酒店和阿加拉罗夫父子共进了午餐。
The Agalarovs also reportedly hosted a dinner for Trump the night of the pageant, along with Herman Gref, a former Russian economy minister who serves as chief executive of the state-controlled Sberbank PJSC, according to Bloomberg News.
据彭博新闻社(Bloomberg News)报道，据说在选美比赛当晚，阿加拉罗夫父子也为特朗普举办了一场晚宴，一同出席的还有曾担任俄罗斯经济部长、现为俄罗斯国有银行Sberbank PJSC首席执行官的赫尔曼·格雷夫(Herman Gref)。
Talk of development deals swirled around the visit, and Trump sent out his tweet, promising that Trump Tower Moscow was coming.
访问莫斯科期间，传出过有关开发协议的讨论。特朗普发了推文，承诺将建起莫斯科特朗普大厦。
But the tower never appeared on the skyline.
但这座大厦一直没有出现在天际线。