A FIVE-BEDROOM TOWNHOUSE IN A SUBURB OF BRUSSELS
布鲁塞尔郊外一栋带有5间卧室的联排别墅
$3.2 MILLION 
320万美元（约合人民币2048万元）
This broad multilevel townhouse, built in 1927, is on a street lined with Art Nouveau and Art Deco mansions in Uccle, an upscale suburban municipality 15 minutes by tram or car south of Brussels’s city center. It is on a 0.19-acre lot, with a swimming pool and garden.
这栋宽敞的多层联排别墅建于1927年，位于两边排列着新艺术风格(Art Nouveau)与装饰艺术风格(Art Deco)豪宅的一条街道上，在布鲁塞尔市郊的高端行政区于克勒区(Uccle)，该区位于布鲁塞尔市中心以南，乘有轨电车或开车15分钟可达。这处房产占地面积0.19英亩（约769平方米），有一座游泳池和一座花园。
The 6,458-square-foot residence, with five bedrooms, two full baths and two partial baths, was designed by the Belgian architect and decorator Leon Sneyers as his home and workshop, said Anne Montanari of Brussels Sotheby’s International Realty, which has the listing. A 2014 renovation by the current owner, the architect Smadar Baron, synthesizes its original Art Deco moldings, stained glass, light fixtures and high ceilings within a sleek, contemporary space with a new kitchen and baths.
这栋面积6458平方英尺（约608平方米）的住宅中有5间卧室、两间全功能浴室和两间无洗浴功能的卫生间，据代理该房源的布鲁塞尔苏富比国际地产公司(Sotheby’s International Realty)的安妮·蒙塔纳里(Anne Montanari)说，这栋房屋是比利时建筑装修设计师莱昂·斯纳尔斯(Leon Sneyers)作为自己的住宅和工作室而设计的。2014年，现任业主、建筑师斯马达尔·巴伦(Smadar Baron)进行了翻修，将原有的装饰艺术风格的装饰线条、彩色玻璃、各类灯具和高高的天花板融入了一个带有一间全新的厨房和数间浴室、光鲜亮丽的当代设计空间。
The original textured-glass and metal front door is bracketed by sidelights, with a clerestory window. It opens onto an octagonal entrance hall with a black marble floor and marble paneling, along with a built-in marble bench with cushions that match the wallpaper.
这栋房屋原有的压花玻璃金属大门两边都装有侧灯，门上有一扇高侧窗。这扇门通往一间铺着黑色大理石地板、贴了大理石墙面的八边形门厅，门厅里还有一条嵌壁式大理石长凳，上面放了几个与壁纸相衬的靠垫。
To the left of the foyer, the kitchen is outfitted with black lacquer Boffi cabinets on the perimeter, a white Corian-topped center island with a drop-down breakfast bar and Gaggenau appliances. Beyond, the formal dining room overlooks the pool.
厨房在这间门厅的左边，四周配有黑色漆面的Boffi橱柜，还有一座白色可丽耐(Corian)台面的中央岛台，这里有一个下拉式早餐吧台和一些嘉格纳品牌(Gaggenau)的厨房电器。厨房连着俯瞰游泳池的正式餐厅。
A powder room and a study are to the right of the foyer. Straight ahead, a vestibule opens through French doors to the formal living room, which has a new Art Deco-style black marble fireplace with bench seating to each side. Against the opposite wall, a stepped, marble-topped staircase surround has distinctive built-in light fixtures. A second staircase leads from a hallway off the study to the garage. Beyond the living room, a raised den has stained-glass windows above sliding glass doors to the deck.
门厅右边是一间化妆室和一间书房。正前方是一间前厅，这里有一扇法式双开门通往那间正式的客厅，客厅里有一座新的装饰艺术风格的黑色大理石壁炉，两边各配有长椅座位。在对面的墙壁上，一段台阶上铺着大理石的楼梯周围装了一些独特的嵌壁式灯具。另一段楼梯从走廊边的书房通往车库。在这间客厅外面，有一间底部升高了的小房间，里面有一扇通往平台的推拉玻璃门，门的上方有几扇彩色玻璃窗。
A library is on the upstairs landing. The master suite with a private terrace overlooks the garden. The master bath is white marble laser-engraved with a light green Art Deco motif. It has two vanities, a bathtub, a heated towel rack and an Italian rainhead shower. Also on the second level are two family bedrooms and an office/game room. Another bedroom and a shower room with a sink but no toilet are on mezzanines between the master bedroom and the top floor.
一间书房位于楼梯平台上。主卧套间带有一座私人平台可以俯瞰花园。主卧浴室内贴着白色大理石瓷砖，上面有激光雕刻的浅绿色装饰艺术主题图案。这里有两间化妆间、一个浴缸、一个带加热功能的毛巾架和一间意式雨淋花洒淋浴房。二楼还有两间可住三人的卧室和一间办公/娱乐室。主卧与顶楼之间的夹层上还有一间卧室和一间带有盥洗池但没有马桶的淋浴房。
A swimming pool is built into the deck, with a fresco of a pond set into a wall next to it. A lattice gazebo forms an entryway to the fenced garden steps below.
游泳池建在屋外的平台上，旁边的墙壁上还挂着一幅绘有池塘的壁画。有一座格子凉亭作为入口，通往几级台阶下那座有篱笆围住的花园。
The basement includes a two-car back-to-back garage, a kitchenette, a wine cellar, a laundry, a boiler and rooms for storage and swimming pool equipment.
这栋房屋的地下室里包括一间两车位的背对背车库，一间小厨房、一间酒窖、一间洗衣房、一间锅炉房和几间储藏室与泳池设备房。
Uccle, with 80,500 residents, is home to several embassies and is laced with parks, villages, a French school, forested areas and a cornucopia of restaurants. Four miles north, Brussels’s cobblestoned Grand Place bustles with cafes, ornate Baroque and Gothic houses and a 13th-century town hall.
于克勒区住着8.05万名居民，是几座大使馆的所在地，这里还分布着一些公园、乡村，一座法语学校，几处绿茵树林区和各种餐厅。往北四英里（约6.4公里）的地方是布鲁塞尔的大广场(Grand Place)，那里熙熙攘攘，有许多咖啡馆、华丽的巴洛克和哥特式房屋，还有一座建于13世纪的市政厅。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
“The market is always very stable in Belgium and in Brussels,” Ms. Montanari said, given the city’s status as the headquarters of the European Union. As part of the green belt south of the city, Uccle has prices that are among the highest, and they have risen 20 percent since 2008, said Jean Corman, managing director of Victoire Properties, with offices in Brussels and Uccle.
蒙塔纳里说，考虑到这座城市作为欧盟总部所在地，“比利时和布鲁塞尔的房地产市场一直都非常稳定。”在布鲁塞尔和于克勒区都设有办公室的Victoire Properties地产公司总经理让·科尔曼(Jean Corman)说，于克勒区是该市南部绿化带的一部分，因此房价处于地产市场的高端，自2008年以来上已经涨了20%。
While houses in Brussels and its suburbs generally gained 50 percent in value between 2000 and 2008, prices remain 15 percent lower than before the global economic slump, Mr. Corman added.
科尔曼还说，虽然布鲁塞尔及近郊地区在2000年至2008年间总体升值了50%，但是这里的房价仍然比全球经济衰退之前低15%。
The luxury market, more affordable than in Paris or London, ranges from $1 million to $18 million, said David Chicard, managing director of Brussels Sotheby’s International Realty.
布鲁塞尔苏富比国际地产公司的总经理戴维·希卡尔(David Chicard)说，这里的豪华地产市场价格区间从100万美元（约合人民币639万元）至1800万美元（约合人民币1.15亿元）不等。
Since the downturn, more buyers are choosing to live in the city rather than the suburbs, Mr. Corman said. Most new development consists of apartments, particularly close to Brussels’s historical center and in the up-and-coming Canal District, where residential projects are being built on former industrial sites.  At the new 42-story UP-site tower, one-bedrooms start at 325,000 euros  ($360,750).
科尔曼说，自从经济衰退以来，越来越的买家选择住在城市里而不是郊区。大多数新开发的楼盘都是公寓，尤其在布鲁塞尔历史中心区附近和日益兴旺的运河区(Canal District)，那里的一些住宅项目是在以前的工业用地上兴建起来的。在新建的42层UP-site大厦中，单卧室公寓的起始价格为32.5万欧元（360750美元，约合人民币230.5万元）。
Philippe Rosy, a director of Engel & Völkers, said overall inventory is high, a combination of old and new stock.
Engel & Völkers地产公司的主管菲利普·罗茜(Philippe Rosy)说，市场总体存量很高，新旧房源都有库存。
WHO BUYS IN BELGIUM
在比利时买房的都是谁
Luxury home buyers from France, drawn to Belgium by the absence of a capital-gains tax, buy homes in Uccle and other high-end neighborhoods south of Brussels, where international schools are found, Mr. Corman said. British, Italians, Germans and some Swiss and Dutch also are among the foreign buyers, agents said.
科尔曼说,豪华住宅的买家来自法国，由于没有资本利得税，买家们被吸引到比利时来，纷纷在于克勒区和布鲁塞尔南部可以找到国际学校的高端社区买房。一些地产代理人说，外国买家中还包括英国人、意大利人、德国人与一些瑞士和荷兰人。
“You really need a reason to come to Belgium, usually family or business or taxes,” Mr. Chicard said. “We don’t have the Seine.”
“来比利时买房总是有原因的，通常是为了家庭、事业或税收优惠政策，”希卡尔说。“我们可没有塞纳河(Seine)。”
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers. Buyers and sellers are required to have a notary draft the sales agreement and place a 10 percent down payment in escrow, said Alexander Caudron, a notary. For the closing, the notary makes sure the contract is “valid and well-balanced for all parties involved.”
比利时对外国买家没有限制。公证人亚历山大·科德隆(Alexander Caudron)说，买家与卖家要有一位公证人起草销售协议，并将10%的首付存入托管账户。交易最后，这位公证人要保证该合同“对交易涉及的各方都合理而有效”。
Most luxury buyers obtain a mortgage from the bank, Mr. Caudron added; a 30 percent down payment is typical.
科德隆还说，大多数奢华地产的买家都可以从银行获得抵押贷款；首期款通常为30%。
WEBSITES
网站
Belgium tourism: visitbelgium.com
比利时旅游局：visitbelgium.com
Belgium portal: belgium.be
比利时官网: belgium.be
Brussels tourism: visitbrussels.be
布鲁塞尔旅游局：visitbrussels.be
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
语言和货币
Dutch, French and German; euro (1 euro = $1.11 )
荷兰语、法语和德语；欧元（1欧元=1.11美元，约合人民币7.1元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
Annual property taxes on the townhouse are about 3,764 euros, or about $4,180, Ms. Montanari said.
蒙塔纳里说，这栋联排别墅每年的房地产税大约为3764欧元，或4180美元（约合人民币2.7万元）。
Registration taxes in Brussels run up to 12.5 percent of the property’s value, with a discount of 60,000 to 75,000 euros ($66,600 to $83,250) for first-time buyers who establish residence within two years of buying a house or apartment and maintain it as a primary residence for five years, Mr. Caudron said. A notary fee of 2.5 percent is based on the purchase price. Costs also include a stamp duty of 50 euros, administrative costs of about 850 euros, and a 21 percent value added tax (V.A.T.) on the notary costs. There is also a 1 percent registration tax due on the value of a mortgage.
布鲁塞尔的注册税达到了房产价值的12.5%，但是，对于购买一栋房屋或公寓不到两年，并将其作为主要住所居住5年的首次购房者，有一笔数额为6万欧元（66600美元，约合人民币43万元）至7.5万欧元（83250美元，约合人民币53万元）的折扣，科德隆说道。2.5%的公证费以购买价为基础。购买成本还包括一项50欧元（约合人民币356元）的印花税，和大约850欧元（约合人民币6050元）的行政费用，还有一笔21%的增值税(V.A.T)也附加在这项公证费之上。另外，根据抵押的价值，还应交纳一笔1%的注册税。
CONTACT
联系方式
Anne Montanari, Brussels Sotheby’s International Realty, (011-32-2) 640-08-01; brussels-sothebysrealty.com
布鲁塞尔苏富比国际地产公司，安妮·蒙塔纳里，(011-32-2) 640-08-01; brussels-sothebysrealty.com