“How does this space become an event?” was the question Scott Bruckner posed to the architects he hired to remodel the 3,800-square-foot apartment he bought in a new building in TriBeCa in 2007, for $6.5 million. Mr. Bruckner, a financier who had spent much of his career working overseas and had returned to New York to join Perella Weinberg Partners, an international asset management firm, had been in the apartment for about a year. And while “it was big and airy and I liked the location,” he said, it was little more than a static white space.
“怎样才能将这个地方变成一个重要场合？”这是斯科特·布鲁克纳(Scott Bruckner)在改装自己的公寓时，向他聘请的设计师提出的问题。布鲁克纳是一名金融师，他在海外度过了很长一段时间的职业生涯，后来回到了纽约，加入了国际资产管理公司Perella Weinberg Partners。他现在住的公寓有3800平方英尺（约合353平方米），是他2007年在翠贝卡区(TriBeCa)的一栋新楼里买的。房子大概住了一年。虽然“它很大，通风很好，位置也是我喜欢的”，他说，但是这里不过是个一成不变的白色空间。
Voorsanger Architects, the design firm he was working with, had initially presented him with a relatively conservative proposal. But once the architects realized their client had an appetite for risk, they responded by creating a design that transformed the boxy space into a bachelor pad with anxiously tilted walls and doorways, a Dr. Caligari-style entrance and a long, textured limestone wall that begins in the relatively cramped entryway, wraps around a corner and explodes into full relief in the living area. A narrow ledge that resembles a geological rift runs along a slight diagonal in the wall, subtly suggesting a mantel as it crosses above a deep-set fireplace.
他聘请的设计公司Voorsanger Architects一开始给他出了一个相对保守的方案。不过，当建筑师们意识到这位客户的冒险欲之后，他们的回应是，将原本方方正正的空间设计成为一套极具设计感的单身公寓，采用了斜度令人不安的墙面和门廊、卡里加里博士（Dr. Caligari，德国表现主义电影《卡里加里博士的小屋》里的经典恐怖形象——译注）风格的入口和一堵又长又粗糙的石灰墙。这面墙体从相对狭窄的门廊绕过一处拐角，在起居区完全伸展开来。隐约可见的墙体对角线上，有一个看起来很像地质裂缝的窄壁架，它在深陷墙内的壁炉上方形成了一个壁炉架。
Now there’s hardly a perpendicular line in the place, and “every time you turn your head, something happens,” Mr. Bruckner, 56, said.
现在，屋子里几乎没有垂直的线条了。“每次你转头的时候，都会看到不一样的效果，”现年56岁的布鲁克纳表示。
“All my friends come in and are immediately bowled over by the wall,” he added. “Everyone who goes into the space goes to the wall and touches it.”
“我所有的朋友一进门，都会被墙体的设计惊呆，”他还说。“他们一进门就会走到墙边去伸手摸摸墙面。”
Made of a series of angled planes — about 40 pieces in all, each a little over an inch thick — that intersect in precise, computer-milled joints, the wall is as much an organizing device as it is a focal point, said Martin Stigsgaard, who worked on the project with Bartholomew Voorsanger: “The wall links all the spaces and creates a visual path throughout the apartment.”
这一项目的设计师是马丁·斯迪格斯嘉德(Martin Stigsgaard)和巴塞洛缪·伍尔桑格(Bartholomew Voorsanger)。据斯迪格斯嘉德说，墙体由一系列（大约40个）呈斜角的平面组成，每个平面的厚度略大于一英寸（约合76厘米），它们被精确地接合在一起，接头由电脑设计。墙体既是一个整合空间的装置，又是一个焦点。“墙壁将所有空间连接了起来，创造出一条贯通整套公寓的视觉路径。”
But it had such a strong sculptural presence that everyone agreed some kind of response was needed on the opposite side of the room, where a series of arched windows look out over Greenwich Street. So what the architects refer to as prismatic “fins” were cast from translucent resin and placed between the windows.
不过，它的浮雕色彩太重，让所有人都觉得应该在房间对面做一个与之呼应的设计。房间对面有几扇拱窗，站在窗口可以俯瞰格林威治街(Greenwich Street)。于是建筑师们用半透明的树脂制作了他们所说的棱柱形“鳍”，放置在窗户之间。
Ceilings were made from skim-coated Sheetrock painted white, in sections that hang at different heights and angles, echoing the fractured geometry of the wall. Even the furniture, most of which was designed by Mr. Stigsgaard and Mr. Voorsanger, picks up the rhythms of the wall.
吊顶采用了表面抹灰、漆成白色的石膏板，并被分成不同的区块，彼此的高度和角度各有不同，与墙体支离破碎的几何图形相呼应。就连家具也采用了与墙体搭调的设计，多数由斯迪格斯嘉德和伍尔桑格设计。
Mr. Bruckner was also “very involved in the design process,” he said, at one point insisting on changing the angles of the limestone surfaces and simplifying the ceiling treatment, which he felt was too undulating. “It almost made me seasick.”
布鲁克纳“对设计过程的介入很深”，他说，他曾坚持改变石灰石表面的角度，简化吊顶的处理，因为他觉得吊顶的波浪状起伏太大。“我看着都要晕船了。”
In the all-white office, a slab of steel coated in white enamel cantilevers out from the wall to serve as a desk. This, too, was Mr. Bruckner’s idea. “I wanted the desk to look like the extension of an airplane wing,” he said. “They had to rip open the wall and attach it to steel beams.”
在全白色的办公室里，有一块表面镀有白色珐琅的钢板悬在墙上，作为办公桌。这也是布鲁克纳的主意。“我想让桌子看起来像一片机翼的延伸，”他说。“他们不得不把墙挖开，把它接在钢梁上。”
The color palette throughout is muted, because “any color is too much color, as far as I’m concerned,” Mr. Bruckner said. Floors are made from wenge, a dark, porous hardwood, and window ledges are limestone, to provide informal seating and hide the heating and cooling system.
屋子的整体色调比较柔和，因为“我觉得，不管用什么颜色都太鲜艳了”，布鲁克纳说。地板采用了鸡翅木，是一种深色的多孔硬木。窗台采用了石灰石，可以当凳子坐，也可以遮蔽供暖和供冷系统。