Monaco, a constitutional monarchy on the Riviera measuring less than a square mile, evokes high-stakes gambling, multimillion-dollar yachts, Russian oligarchs, racecar drivers, James Bond films, spotless sidewalks and no public debt. Hotel suites with a view of the sea during the Grand Prix can cost thousands, even tens of thousands, of euros. A starter of pea soup with gnocchi goes for 76 euros (about $100) at the Louis XV, Alain Ducasse’s Michelin three-star restaurant at the Hôtel de Paris. Monaco is a place where high-priced female “escorts” with long legs and exotic accents decorate the nightclubs and hotel lobbies. Visitors can drop their dogs off at free kennels, and car owners feel safe enough to leave their keys in the ignition. Prince Albert II is pushing to make Monaco a family-friendly, environmentally correct vacation spot. Look hard enough and you will discover a world of art, natural beauty and good food and lodging at affordable prices.
里维埃拉(Riviera)海岸的君主国家摩纳哥面积不到一平方英里（约259万平方米）， 却引来大手笔的赌徒、价值数百万的游艇、俄罗斯超级富豪、赛车手、007系列电影，此外还有一尘不染的人行步道，以及数额为零的国债。国际汽车大奖赛(Grand Prix)其间，你会发现海景的酒店套房价格高达数千甚至数万欧元。在名厨阿兰·杜卡斯(Alain Ducasse)设在巴黎酒店(Hôtel de Paris)的米其林三星餐厅路易十五(Louis XV)，一道包括青豆汤和土豆团的开胃菜价格76欧元（约合100美元）。摩纳哥是那种优雅长腿、异国口音的高价女“伴游”时不时出现在夜总会和酒店大堂的地方。游客可以将宠物狗放在免费的狗窝，车主将钥匙留在点火器上也绝对放心。阿尔贝二世亲王正致力于将摩纳哥变成一个适合家庭又支持环保的度假胜地。认真探索的话，你会发现一个由艺术、大自然、美食和价格适中的住宿场所组成的世界。
FRIDAY
星期五
4 p.m.
下午4点
1. An American Princess 
1、美国王妃
The story of Grace Kelly — the Oscar-winning American actress who married a prince, became a princess and died tragically — is woven into the fabric of Monaco’s history. An avenue, a rose garden, a foundation, even a polka-dotted fish have been named after her. Her body is buried alongside that of her husband, Prince Rainier III, in the Roman-Byzantine-style Monaco Cathedral. You can get close to her spirit in a second-story suite known as the Princess Grace Irish Library. Her personal Irish book collection is here, as is her sheet music, a scrapbook of news clippings about her, floral napkins she designed for Springmaid, the chairs from the dining room of her apartment in Paris and the sewing box of her mother. Open Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., although it’s best to call ahead. Or by appointment.
格蕾丝·凯丽(Grace Kelly)的故事（美国奥斯卡影后，嫁给王子后变成王妃，但后来又悲惨离世）已经与摩纳哥的历史密不可分。这里有一条大街、一座玫瑰园、一座喷泉，甚至一种长满圆点的鱼都以她的名字命名。她的遗体与丈夫雷尼尔三世亲王(Prince Rainier III)一起葬在罗马-拜占庭风格的摩纳哥大教堂(Monaco Cathedral)。在二楼一个叫做“格蕾丝王妃爱尔兰图书馆”(Princess Grace Irish Library)的套房，你可以近距离感受她的芳魂。这里收集了她私人的爱尔兰藏书，以及她的活页乐谱、与她有关的新闻剪报、她为斯普林美德酒店(Springmaid)设计的花卉餐巾、从她巴黎居所收集来的餐椅以及她妈妈的针线盒。图书馆周一至周五上午9点至下午4:30开放，来之前最好电话告知或进行预约。
6:30 p.m.
下午6:30
2. Night Out
2、外出晚餐
Head up to the Jardin Exotique district and stop at La Chaumière restaurant for a cocktail and a postcard-perfect view of Monaco. It is just about the only public spot where you can see the palace from above. Then make your way to La Piazza, where the chef and owner Giovanni Orsolini prepares the best Northern Italian cooking in Monaco. The restaurant specializes in seafood and features such signature dishes as stuffed zucchini flowers with ricotta and tomato and the lightest cannelloni filled with pumpkin or veal. A mural of the main square in Mr. Orsolini’s home town of Ascoli Piceno fills one of the peach-colored walls. Dinner for two with wine: about 120 euros, or $155, at $1.29 to the euro.
直奔热带花园(Jardin Exotique)一带， 并在La Chaumière饭店略作停留，喝杯鸡尾酒并欣赏摩纳哥明信片一般的美景。这里是唯一能够俯瞰宫殿建筑的公共场所。接下来去广场饭店(La Piazza)，他家的大厨兼老板乔瓦尼·奥索里尼(Giovanni Orsolini)会烹制摩纳哥最好的意大利北方美食。海鲜是这家饭店的特长，拿手菜包括塞有意大利乳清干酪和西红柿的西葫芦花和口味清淡、塞有南瓜或小牛肉的意大利烤春卷。墙壁是桃红色的，其中一面墙上有一幅壁画，内容是奥索里尼先生的故乡阿斯科利皮切洛(Ascoli Piceno)中心广场的景致。两人份的晚餐含酒水：约120欧元，根据欧元对美元1.29的汇率约合155美元。
10:30 p.m.
晚上10:30
3. Not for Gamblers Only
3、不只为赌徒开放
The Casino de Monte-Carlo is an architectural delight. Inaugurated in 1863, reconstructed in 1878 by Charles Garnier, it has an atrium paved in marble and surrounded by 28 Ionic columns in onyx. On one side, the Opera Hall, with red and gold décor, bas-reliefs and sculptures, is an ode to Garnier’s other masterpiece, the Paris Opéra. On the other is the Casino itself (which you can visit without having to play). It leads into the newly renovated Salle Blanche, which opens to the sea. It’s the most elegant place in town to have a cocktail and hear live music.
蒙特卡罗大赌场(Casino de Monte-Carlo)是一个建筑杰作。它在1863年落成使用，1878 年由查尔斯·加尼埃(Charles Garnier)进行重建。建筑中心的天井铺着大理石，四周围绕着28根爱奥尼亚柱风格的玛瑙色圆柱。天井的一侧是歌剧大厅(Opera Hall)，以红和金为主色调，还装饰着浅浮雕和多个雕像，表达了对加尼埃另一杰作巴黎歌剧院(Paris Opéra)的致敬。天井的另一侧就是赌场（游客不赌博也可以进去参观）。从赌场可以走到新近翻修的布兰奇大厅(Salle Blanche)。布兰奇大厅面对大海，是摩纳哥品尝鸡尾酒、欣赏现场音乐的最美地点。
SATURDAY
星期六
10 a.m.
上午10点
4. Sea and Gardens 
4、大海和花园
Prince Albert I was a scientist and an oceanographer as well as a sovereign. He built the Musée Océanographique in 1910 as a temple of the sea combining art and science. The building pays homage to the Mediterranean: the facade is decorated with crabs, shrimp, scorpion fish, jelly fish, calamari eggs and other oddities from the deep; the mosaic floors evoke the sea. Albert’s whaling ship and Jacques Cousteau’s diving bell are here. The aquarium features a world-class collection, including sharks and aging octopuses and tortoises. Admission is 14 euros. Then it’s back to dry land at Jardin Exotique. More than 1,000 varieties of exotic cactuses and other succulents grow between the rocks and on the steep crags in this botanical garden under the supervision of Monaco’s City Hall. Cactuses along the pathways look like huge sticks of fur; succulents form archways. Park benches offer views of the water. The charming carved footbridges appear to be wood, but are actually made of concrete. Below is a prehistoric cave complete with stalagmites and stalactites.
阿尔贝一世亲王(Prince Albert I)不仅是个君主，还是个科学家和海洋学家。1910年，他建造了海洋博物馆(Musée Océanographique)，并将之变成一座融合了海洋艺术和科学的圣殿。博物馆表达了对地中海的敬意：正面的墙壁点缀着螃蟹、大虾、蝎子鱼、水母、鱿鱼蛋和其他来自海洋深处的趣怪事物，地板马赛克的装饰特色也令人联想到海洋。阿尔贝的捕鲸船和雅克·库斯托(Jacques Cousteau’s)的潜水钟也陈列在这里。水族馆有世界级的展品，包括鲨鱼以及年龄很大的章鱼和海龟。门票14欧元。接着，我们回到干燥的陆地，欣赏热带花园。这个植物园坐落在摩纳哥市政厅的下方，岩石和陡峭的山崖之间生长着一千多种来自其他国家的仙人掌和其他多肉植物。走道两边的仙人掌看起来像覆满皮毛的巨型棍棒，其他多肉植物则构成拱门的样子。坐在公园的长椅上，可以欣赏海洋风光。优雅的人行步道桥精雕细刻，看起来好像是木头造成，但原料其实是水泥。它的下方是个史前洞穴，里面有一些石笋和钟乳石。
12:30 p.m.
下午12:30
5. Classy Fast Food 
5、经典快餐
Every morning, the Place d’Armes esplanade in the heart of Monaco pitches red and yellow shade umbrellas and becomes an open-air food and flower market, the Marché de la Condamine. Some of the vendors come from their farms in Italy 100 miles away, bringing with them homemade olive oil and jars of preserved vegetables. Indoors are more than a dozen cafeteria-style operations. Eat Juice offers six small vegetarian dishes for 15 euros. Lapitxuri serves a sandwich with Bellota pata negra cured ham for 7 euros. Le Comptoir prepares fresh dishes like a mountain of fried squid for 12 euros.
每天上午，摩纳哥中心地带的军事广场(Place d’Armes)上，明黄鲜红的阳伞都会在地面投下阴影，广场此时就变成一个出售美食和鲜花的露天集市——康明达市场(Marché de la Condamine)。部分摊贩来自100多英里外的意大利，带着在自家农场制成的橄榄油和装在罐子里的腌菜。室内是十几个咖啡馆模样的摊档。“吃果汁”(Eat Juice)提供了6种果蔬小菜，共计 15欧元。Lapitxuri提供夹着贝罗塔黑教猪腌火腿的三明治，每只7欧元。Le Comptoir供应多种新鲜美食，体积像小山一样的一堆炸鱿鱼价格12欧元。
2 p.m.
下午2点
6. Secondhand Luxury 
6、二手奢侈品
Even if you can’t afford the black crocodile Birkin bag at Le Dressing for 28,000 euros, you might fall in love with a Stephen Sprouse leather jacket with a painted image of Marilyn Monroe on the back for 1,590 euros, or red patent leather Yves Saint Laurent pumps at 195 euros. Le Dressing’s shops in La Condamine are worth a look. Much of the inventory is new. “Women in Monaco can’t wear the same dress twice,” said Helen Rimsberg, the shops’ owner. “Otherwise people would think your husband had money problems.”
即使Le Dressing商店每只2.8万欧元的黑色鳄鱼皮柏金包(Birkin)你支付不起，但你仍然可以爱上史蒂芬·斯普劳斯(Stephen Sprouse)设计的背后印有玛丽莲·梦露图像、售价1590欧元的皮夹克，或者售价195欧元的圣罗兰(Yves Saint Laurent)红色漆皮休闲鞋。Le Dressing在La Condamine的商店很值得一看，那里许多货品都是新的。“摩纳哥的女人不能将同一件衣服穿两次，”店主海伦·利姆斯伯格(Helen Rimsberg)说道，“否则别人就会认为你丈夫遇到了财务问题。”
3:30 p.m.
下午3:30
7. Art Comes First
7、艺术第一
There are no candles to light or Masses at the Musée de la Chapelle de la Visitation. No organ, no incense, no flowers. But masterpieces by Rubens, Zurbarán, Ribera and Italian Baroque masters, in the collection of Barbara Piasecka Johnson, the Polish-born American philanthropist, hang on the walls. Look for the 15th-century Pietà in wood by an unknown German sculptor.
天赐教堂博物馆(Musée de la Chapelle de la Visitation)里没有通明的蜡烛，也没有弥撒活动。没有管风琴，没有焚香祈祷，没有鲜花。但教堂的墙上挂着大量的艺术杰作，作者包括鲁本斯(Rubens)、苏巴朗(Zurbarán)、利贝拉(Ribera)和一些意大利巴洛克艺术家。这些藏品的主人是波兰出生的美国慈善家芭芭拉·皮埃塞卡·约翰逊(Barbara Piasecka Johnson)。别忘了欣赏一座15世纪的圣母哀悼耶稣的雕像，作者是一位无名的德国雕塑家。
5 p.m.
下午5点
8. Upscale Souvenirs 
8、高档纪念品
Martine Rosticher makes beautiful paper to create bookmarks, picture frames, notebook covers. Her husband, Claude, paints watercolors. Together they run Les Feuillets, a shop that also sells old postcards and magazines featuring Monaco. (Like the 1956 issue of Paris-Match with the Grace Kelly-Prince Rainier wedding on the cover for 35 euros.) If there’s time, take a tour of the “Grands Appartements” of the palace nearby. Not Versailles, but still impressive. Closed from Nov. 1 to March 28; open 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. the rest of the year.
马廷·罗斯蒂彻(Martine Rosticher)制造出精美的纸张并将它们变成书签、相框和笔记本封面。她的丈夫克劳德(Claude)画水彩画。他们一起经营着“纸张”(Les Feuillets)商店，出售与摩纳哥有关的古旧明信片和过期杂志。（比如，《巴黎竞赛画报》1956年格蕾丝·凯丽和雷尼尔亲王婚礼为封面的那期杂志，只卖35欧元）。如果你时间充足，请到附近的宫殿建筑宏伟公寓(Grands Appartements)。它不是凡尔赛宫，但仍然给人深刻的印象。11月1日至3月28日不对外开放；其他时间则每日上午10点至下午6点开放。
6 p.m.
下午6点
9. A Quiet Walk 
9、安静的散步
It is hard to find markers indicating that you’ve left Monaco and crossed into France. On one side of the Avenue du Port is the Fontvieille district of Monaco, on the other (French) side, the Riviera Marriott. To the left of the hotel is a walkway that borders the water. Expect to see beach volleyball players, belle époque villas, catamarans, joggers and fishing boats. Stone steps lead down to sheltered coves where you can skip stones and be alone. You can turn back anywhere along the way, or go to the end (three hours round-trip) at Cap d’Ail’s Plage Mala, a beautiful hidden cove.
很难找到明确的路标，告诉你已经离开摩纳哥、进入了法国。港口大道(Avenue du Port)的一边是摩纳哥的芳特维耶(Fontvieille)地区，另一边就是属于法国的里维埃拉万豪酒店(Riviera Marriott)。从酒店向左，是一条临水的海滨步道。你会看到玩沙滩排球的人、“美好年代”风格的别墅、双体船、跑步健身的人和捕鱼船。沿着石头阶梯走，就会到达一处有顶棚的小海湾。在那里你可以玩石子打水漂的游戏，享受一个人的自在。在途中，你随时可以回头，也可以一直走到终点（往返3个小时）的Cap d’Ail’s Plage Mala，一处隐秘而美妙的海岬。 
8:30 p.m.
晚上8:30
10. Dinner by the Sea
10、海边晚餐
Back in Cap d’Ail near the Marriott is A’Trego, a futuristic complex that juts out into the sea and offers three dining spaces. La Cantine is the liveliest. Designed by Philippe Starck, it serves a bargain tasting menu: three starters, three entrees and three desserts for 50 euros (without wine). If you’re lucky, the singer-guitarist William Jones will be performing. Take the free shuttle bus back to your hotel — or free shuttle boat service to your yacht.
回到万豪酒店附近的Cap d’Ail 海岬，就是A’Trego 大厦，这是一座延伸到海里的未来主义建筑。楼中有三个就餐场所，La Cantine饭店是气氛最好的一个。饭店由菲利普·斯塔克(Philippe Starck)设计，供应价格廉宜的品尝菜单：三道开胃菜、三道主菜和三道甜点，一共50欧元（不包括酒）。如果你运气好的话，歌手兼吉他手威廉·琼斯(William Jones)就会在那里现场演出。饭后可以乘坐免费的公交摆渡车回到你下榻的酒店，或者乘坐免费的摆渡船回到你的游艇。
SUNDAY
星期日
7:30 a.m.
上午7:30
11. If I Were a Rich Man 
11、如果我是个有钱人
Driving is not the best way to get around Monaco; the public bus and free electric bike systems are much more efficient. But you can live the fantasy of driving up and down the winding hairpin turns of the Riviera in a sports car. Monaco Luxury Rent rents cars like Ferraris and Lamborghinis for a minimum of 24 hours. (Reserve the car the day before and expect to pay at least 1,500 euros.) O.K., you only have a few hours. But hey, this is a fantasy.
自驾并不是游览摩纳哥的最好方式，公共汽车和免费的电动自行车系统比开车要方便得多。但在这里，你可以将驾驶跑车在里维埃拉海岸蜿蜒的海滨大道尽情驰骋的梦想变成现实。摩纳哥豪车租赁行(Monaco Luxury Rent) 出租法拉利、兰博基尼之类的名车，24小时起租（提前一天预订，租车1500欧元起）。好吧，虽然你只能开几个小时，但这是多少人的梦想啊。
10 a.m.
上午10点
12. New Monaco 
12、新摩纳哥
With a focus on modern and contemporary works of art, architecture and design, the Nouveau Musée National de Monaco has relocated to two locations: the Villa Paloma high above the principality and the Villa Sauber down by the sea. There is no permanent collection, but the temporary exhibitions can include paintings, sculpture, photographs, videos, films, costumes and Monégasque history. Free on the first Sunday of every month. Otherwise, admission to both is six euros.
专注于现当代艺术、建筑和设计的摩纳哥国立新时代博物馆(Nouveau Musée National de Monaco)现在包括两个场馆：位于公国山坡上的帕洛玛别墅(Villa Paloma)和海边的索伯别墅(Villa Sauber)。博物馆内没有永久藏品，但经常会有绘画、雕塑、摄影、视频、电影、时装和摩纳哥历史等方面的当代展览。每月第一个星期日免费入场。其他时间，每家别墅的门票都是6欧元。
Noon
正午
13. Not On Any Map
13、不在地图上
Hidden on a path off the Avenue des Pins, near the Pavillon Bosio, is the Club Bouliste du Rocher, a private club for boules players. Pay no attention to the sign in French on the gate that says members only. Alba Luci and Christiana Ruggiero, the cooks, prepare three-course meals served on the terrace; 16 euros with wine. You can watch the action on the boules field, play cards with the locals or savor the view of Port Hercule below.
Club Bouliste du Rocher俱乐部躲在松树大道(Avenue des Pins)旁边的一个小路上，距离博西奥会馆(Pavillon Bosio)不远。它是专为法国式滚球爱好者开设的一个私家俱乐部。入口处写着只限会员入场，请直接忽视。俱乐部的大厨阿尔巴·卢奇(Alba Luci)和克里斯蒂安娜·鲁杰罗(Christiana Ruggiero)烹制三道菜的美食，就餐地点在露台上；含酒水16欧元。你可以欣赏滚球区的活动，也可以一边与当地人打桥牌，一边欣赏下方大力神港(Port Hercule)的风景。
THE DETAILS
实用信息
1. Princess Grace Irish Library, 9, rue Princesse Marie-de-Lorraine; pgil.mc.
1、格蕾丝王妃爱尔兰图书馆，9, rue Princesse Marie-de-Lorraine; pgil.mc.
2. La Chaumière, Rond Point du Jardin Exotique; la-chaumiere.mc; La Piazza, 9, rue du Portier, (377) 93-50-47-00.
2、La Chaumière饭店， Rond Point du Jardin Exotique; la-chaumiere.mc； 广场饭店，9, rue du Portier, (377) 93-50-47-00.
3. Casino de Monte Carlo, Place du Casino; casinomontecarlo.com.
3、蒙特卡罗大赌场，Place du Casino; casinomontecarlo.com.
4. Musée Océanographique, Avenue St-Martin; oceano.mc; Jardin Exotique, 62, boulevard du Jardin Exotique; jardin-exotique.mc.
4、海洋博物馆，Avenue St-Martin; oceano.mc; Jardin Exotique, 62, boulevard du Jardin Exotique; jardin-exotique.mc.
5. Marché de la Condamine, place d’Armes; mairie.mc/poles/pratique/les-marches.
5、康明达市场，place d’Armes; mairie.mc/poles/pratique/les-marches.
6. Le Dressing, 2, rue des Orangers; 1, rue Princesse Florestine; ledressingmonaco.com.
6、Le Dressing商店，2, rue des Orangers; 1, rue Princesse Florestine;ledressingmonaco.com.
7. Musée de la Chapelle de la Visitation, Place de la Visitation, (377) 93-50-07-00.
7、天赐教堂博物馆，Place de la Visitation, (377) 93-50-07-00.
8. Les Feuillets, 32, rue Comte Félix Gastaldi; jsm999.free.fr/gaulaf. Palais Princier de Monaco; palais.mc.
8、纸张商店，32, rue Comte Félix Gastaldi; jsm999.free.fr/gaulaf. Palais Princier de Monaco; palais.mc.
9. Cap d’Ail. 
9、Cap d’Ail海岬.
10. A’Trego, Port de Cap d’Ail; byatrego.com.
10、A’Trego大厦，Port de Cap d’Ail; byatrego.com.
11. Monaco Luxury Rent, monacoluxuryrent.com.
11、摩纳哥豪车租赁行，monacoluxuryrent.com.
12. Nouveau Musée National de Monaco, Villa Paloma, 56, boulevard du Jardin Exotique, and Villa Sauber, 17, avenue Princesse Grace; nmnm.mc.
12、摩纳哥国立新时代博物馆，Villa Paloma, 56, boulevard du Jardin Exotique, and Villa Sauber, 17, avenue Princesse Grace; nmnm.mc.
13. Club Bouliste du Rocher, Avenue des Pins; cbrmonaco.com.
13、Club Bouliste du Rocher俱乐部，Avenue des Pins; cbrmonaco.com.
LODGING
住宿
Hôtel Novotel (16, boulevard Princesse Charlotte; novotel.com) is a wonderful place for families. Children under 16 stay free. Double rooms in low season start at 138 euros, 193 in high season. Hôtel Columbus (23, avenue des Papalins; columbushotels.com) has contemporary interiors, features a vodka bar and overlooks the Princess Grace Rose Garden. Double rooms in low season start at 160 euros, 190 in high.
诺富特酒店(Hôtel Novotel;16, boulevard Princesse Charlotte; novotel.com)是家庭住宿的一个绝好地点。16岁以下儿童可免费入住。淡季双人房138欧元起，旺季193欧元起。哥伦布酒店(Hôtel Columbus; 23, avenue des Papalins; columbushotels.com)有着当代艺术风格的内饰，内设一个伏特加酒吧，并能俯瞰格蕾丝王妃玫瑰花园(Princess Grace Rose Garden)的美景。双人房淡季160欧元起，旺季190欧元起。