Tourists descend on Edinburgh every August for the Edinburgh International Festival, a citywide celebration of theater, music, opera and dance performances; the nearly 3,000 Festival Fringe shows; and the Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo — military bands playing pipes and drums followed by fireworks. But the Scottish capital’s historic sites and winding walks offer a different charm at quieter times of the year, and its restaurants are the highlight of any visit. Haggis and fish and chips now share menu space with local, organic and sustainable fare, and there is a cafe, restaurant or bar on practically every block. That means you can happily eat and drink your way through the city if the weather is wet — which is not unlikely, so plan your outdoor activities around the daily forecast. Before your trip, check The List (list.co.uk) for restaurant reviews and a guide to exhibitions, shows and events.
每年8月，游客们蜂拥而来，参加爱丁堡国际艺术节(Edinburgh International Festival)。这是个全城范围的节庆活动，内容包括电影、戏剧、音乐和舞蹈表演，还有3000场艺穗节(Festival Fringe)演出以及皇家爱丁堡军乐表演（Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo，包括管类和鼓类乐器的演奏），之后还有盛大焰火表演。但这个苏格兰首府的历史景点和蜿蜒的步行便道让相对安静的季节有了别样的魅力，当地的美食场所则一年四季都有亮点。哈吉斯、炸鱼薯条现在常与当地的有机食品和环保美食出现在同一张菜单上，几乎每个社区都有咖啡馆、餐馆或酒吧。那意味着下雨天，你可以在回家的时候快乐地一路走一路吃。下雨并不是不可能的事，所以规划室外活动的时候请留意天气预报。出发之前请登陆点评网站The List(list.co.uk)，查找当地餐馆点评，以及展览、演出和其他活动的指南。
FRIDAY
星期五
3 p.m.
下午3点
1. Small Plates & Portraits
1. 开胃小菜和肖像
Start your culinary tour at Urban Angel on Hanover Street (121 Hanover Street; urban-angel.co.uk) near Queen Street Gardens, where the cakes, muffins and croissants pair nicely with a mug of fair-trade coffee or a cup of Earl Grey tea. Little plates and salads (£4 to £7, or $5.95 to $10.35 at $1.48 to the pound) emphasize organic and seasonal greens, like polenta bites with rocket (arugula) and Parmesan or a Caesar salad with pancetta and anchovies. Once sated, pop into the newly renovated Scottish National Portrait Gallery on Queen Street (1 Queen Street; nationalgalleries.org), one of Edinburgh’s many free museums. Featuring portraits of famous Scots — though not all by Scottish artists — the collection ranges from paintings of historic figures like Mary Queen of Scots to portraits of actors like Sean Connery; the Portrait Gallery also has an extensive collection of photography.
在汉诺威大街(Hanover Street)的都市天使(Urban Angel; 121 Hanover Street; urban-angel.co.uk)开始你的美食之旅。这家餐馆位于女王大街公园(Queen Street Gardens)附近，就着一杯公平贸易咖啡或一杯格雷伯爵茶享受店里的蛋糕、麦芬饼和羊角面包，可谓完美组合。碟装小菜和各式色拉（4—7英镑，根据英镑对美元1.48的汇率，约合5.95—10.35美元）都强调有机和当季的蔬菜，比如加了岩石菜（芝麻叶）和帕玛臣奶酪的杂粮块儿，或加了意大利培根和凤尾鱼的恺撒色拉。吃饱喝足以后，就到女王大街上探访新近翻修的苏格兰国家肖像艺术馆(Scottish National Portrait Gallery on Queen Street; 1 Queen Street; nationalgalleries.org)，这是爱丁堡为数众多的免费博物馆之一。肖像艺术馆以苏格兰名人肖像著称——尽管画家不都是苏格兰人，模特既有苏格兰玛丽女王等历史人物，也有肖恩·康纳利(Sean Connery)等当代演员。肖像艺术馆还有大量的摄影作品。
4 p.m.
下午4点
2. Stair Climb
2. 爬楼梯
If the sky is clear, climb the 287 steps to the top of the Scott Monument (East Princes Street Gardens; edinburghmuseums.org.uk; £4), a Gothic tower built in the 1840s to honor the writer Sir Walter Scott. The circular stone staircase narrows precipitously as you ascend, but if you can squeeze past other visitors on their way down (which can involve some sideways maneuvers), you’ll be rewarded with 360-degree views of the city. After descending, recuperate on a bench in Princes Street Gardens, once a flooded valley protecting Edinburgh Castle that is now a bucolic spot for a break. Then browse the paintings and sculpture at the nearby Scottish National Gallery (The Mound/Princes Street; nationalgalleries.org). The collection includes works by such artists as Gauguin, Bernini and Sir Henry Raeburn. Often a kilt-wearing bagpiper will be playing on the esplanade outside.
如果天气晴好，请试试攀登287级台阶到达斯科特纪念碑（Scott Monument；East Princes Street Gardens； edinburghmuseums.org.uk；4英镑）的顶部。这座建于1840年代的哥特式高塔是用来纪念作家沃尔特·斯科特爵士(Sir Walter Scott)的。圆环形的石头楼梯随着你攀登的步伐越来越陡峭，越来越狭窄。但如果你能侧身避开下行的游客（有时候你会被挤进狭窄的旁侧空间），就会换来360度视野俯瞰该城风光的机会。回到地面以后，可到公主大街花园(Princes Street Gardens)的长凳上休息。这个公园以前是个洪水冲刷出的山谷，围绕并保护着旁边的爱丁堡城堡(Edinburgh Castle)，现在是个充满田园色彩的休闲胜地。接下来，请到附近的苏格兰国家画廊(Scottish National Gallery; The Mound/Princes Street; nationalgalleries.org)欣赏绘画和雕塑，这里的藏品包括高更(Gauguin)、贝尔尼尼(Bernini)和亨利·鲁伯恩爵士(Sir Henry Raeburn)等艺术家的作品。门外的广场上，经常有穿着苏格兰短裙的风笛手进行表演。
6 p.m.
下午6点
3. Pub Stop
3. 酒吧休憩
Drop by the Doric (15-16 Market Street; the-doric.com), one of the city’s oldest pubs, to sample the selection of 50 single-malt whiskies or the Edinburgh-brewed ales on tap. Built in the 17th century, it was originally a linen shop but now serves whiskies ranging from a 10-year-old Glenmorangie (£4) to a 30-year-old Balvenie (£30). Even the Doric is promoting “fresh local produce” served in the bistro upstairs, but downstairs at the bar you can munch on a more traditional snack: a bag of salt and vinegar crisps.
在该城最古老的多利安酒吧(Doric; 15-16 Market Street; the-doric.com)停留一下，在50多种单一麦芽威士忌中挑几种品尝，或畅饮散装的爱丁堡当地啤酒。酒吧建于17世纪，最初是一个亚麻作坊，但现在供应各种酒水，从10年的格兰杰（Glenmorangie；4英镑）到30年的巴尔维尼（Balvenie；30英镑）。虽然多利安宣称楼上的小饭馆中供应“当地新鲜食品”，但你也可以在楼下的酒吧大嚼一种更为传统的零食：装在袋中的咸酸味薯片。
8 p.m.
晚上8点
4. Bistro Buzz
4. 小酒馆吃喝
The whitewashed walls and minimalist décor at the Outsider brasserie (15 George IV Bridge; 44-131-226-3131) contrast with stately views of Edinburgh Castle through the dining room’s rear picture windows. The mostly Mediterranean main dishes (£13 to £19) include options like steamed mussels with bacon and pine nuts, roast rack of lamb with Parmesan potato cake, or hazelnut gnocchi with shiitake mushrooms, spinach and pecorino cheese. Reservations recommended, especially at peak times. If you have energy left after dinner, stop by the Bar Missoni down the street for a nightcap, mingling with the fashionable crowd at the Hotel Missoni.
旁观者饭店(Outsider brasserie; 15 George IV Bridge; 44-131-226-3131)的白墙和极简主义的装饰与餐厅后窗壮丽的爱丁堡城堡风光形成了鲜明的对比。最具地中海特色的主菜（13—19英镑）包括加了培根和松仁的蒸贻贝、搭配帕玛臣土豆饼的烤羊肉，放有香菇、菠菜和佩科里诺羊乳干酪的榛仁面团子。建议提前订座，高峰时段尤需如此。如果饭后你还有精力，可到同一条街的米索尼酒吧(Bar Missoni)喝杯睡前酒，并与米索尼酒店(Hotel Missoni)时尚人群聊天和社交。
SATURDAY
星期六
10 a.m.
上午10点
5. Royal Stroll
5. 皇家漫步
No visit to Edinburgh would be complete without a walk up the Royal Mile, which stretches from the Palace of Holyroodhouse (Holyrood Road; royalcollection.org.uk), the Queen’s official residence in Scotland, to Edinburgh Castle, arguably the city’s most famous landmark. Near the palace, you can’t miss the more modern Scottish Parliament (Canongate; scottish.parliament.uk), which opened to mixed reviews in 2004. It will be in the spotlight again when Scotland votes on a referendum in 2014 to decide whether to become independent or remain part of Britain. The route is lined with tourist shops, but be sure to explore the narrow alleys called closes that lead off the Royal Mile. Many have names referencing a past use, like the Fleshmarket Close, once home to a meat market (also the title of a crime novel by the Scottish writer Ian Rankin).
如果不到皇家一英里大道(Royal Mile)散步，爱丁堡的旅程就不算完整。这条路线的起点是以前苏格兰女王的住所荷里路德宫(Palace of Holyroodhouse; Holyrood Road; royalcollection.org.uk)，终点是号称该城最著名地标的爱丁堡城堡。城堡附近更加摩登的苏格兰议会大厦(Scottish Parliament; Canongate; scottish.parliament.uk)也不容错过，它从2004年对公众开放以来引发了许多争议，2014年当苏格兰就是否从英国独立出去的公民投票结果出来以后，这座建筑会再次置身镁光灯下。皇家一英里大道的两侧排满了旅游纪念品商店，但别忘了探索大道周边俗称死胡同的那些狭窄街巷。许多巷名都采用了以前的名字，比如生鲜市场巷(Fleshmarket Close)以前就是一个鲜肉市场所在地（这个巷名也是苏格兰作家伊恩·兰金[Ian Rankin]一部小说的名字）。
11 a.m.
上午11点
6. Castle Visit
6. 探访城堡
End your stroll at Edinburgh Castle (Castlehill; edinburghcastle.gov.uk), which sits atop the volcanic hill known as Castle Rock. If you spring for the £16 entry fee, you can tour the buildings behind the fortress walls, including the Great Hall, the Royal Palace and St. Margaret’s Chapel, which was built in the 12th century and is the oldest surviving building in Edinburgh. Up near the castle, Edinburgh’s Camera Obscura, dating back to the 1850s, is also worth a visit on a clear day. Visitors gather in a dark room to view live images of the surrounding city, created by using a mirror, lenses and a hole in the ceiling that lets in light — relying on principles of refraction that work best when the sun is shining.
在爱丁堡城堡(Castlehill; edinburghcastle.gov.uk)结束你的漫步。这个城堡建在一座叫城堡石的小火山上。如果你舍得购买16英镑的门票，就可以游览城堡高墙之内的建筑，包括大厅(Great Hall)、皇宫(Royal Palace)和圣玛格丽特教堂(St. Margaret’s Chapel)。圣玛格丽特教堂建于12世纪，是爱丁堡现存最古老的建筑物。城堡附近是1850年代建造的爱丁堡暗箱(Camera Obscura)，在天气晴朗的日子非常值得一看。游客们挤在一间阴暗的屋子里，争相欣赏城市周边的现场景观。暗箱包括一块镜子、几个镜头和天花板上一个用来透光的孔洞，利用光的折射原理制造出视觉奇观，阳光灿烂的时候效果最佳。
Noon
正午
7. History Lesson
7. 历史课
On your way back down the hill, take a detour to the National Museum of Scotland on Chambers Street, which also just completed a renovation in 2011. The diverse exhibits cover Scottish history, the natural world, science, art and design, with lots of child-pleasing options like a dinosaur skeleton and a steam locomotive. But one of the museum’s most famous attractions is definitely Dolly, the cloned sheep created at the University of Edinburgh, now preserved for posterity by taxidermists.
下山的路上，请绕道钱伯斯大街(Chambers Street)去探访苏格兰国家博物馆(National Museum of Scotland)，这个地方2011年也刚刚经过一次翻新。里面的展览主题多样，涵盖了苏格兰历史、自然世界、科学、艺术和设计，还有不少深受儿童喜欢的东西，比如恐龙骨架和一个蒸汽小火车。但博物馆最著名的看点绝对是克隆羊多利(Dolly)，当年它由爱丁堡大学(University of Edinburgh)研制而成，死后它的遗体做成了标本供人参观。
1:30 p.m.
下午1:30
8. To the Dogs
8. 去群狗餐吧(Dogs)
Offering a simple take on the gastropub tradition, the Dogs (110 Hanover Street; thedogsonline.co.uk) serves Scottish favorites like steak and mushroom pie (£7.45), haggis, black pudding and bacon hash with a fried duck egg (£6.35) and fish and chips with mushy peas (£6.95). For vegetarians, there’s a roasted squash, goat cheese and spring onion barley risotto (£6.45). Portraits and statues of dogs adorn the walls and line the staircase, as if awaiting a taste of your meal. After lunch, explore the shops on nearby George and Princes streets, a mix of familiar global brands and the ornate department store Jenners, a longtime institution in Edinburgh.
群狗餐吧(Dogs; 110 Hanover Street; thedogsonline.co.uk)是研究当地餐吧传统的一个好去处。这里供应苏格兰人最爱的多种餐饮，比如牛排蘑菇饼（7.45英镑），哈吉斯、黑布丁和搭配了煮鸭蛋的培根土豆泥（6.35英镑），以及搭配豌豆糊的炸鱼薯条（6.95英镑）。素食主义者可以享受那里的烤南瓜、山羊奶酪、香葱大麦意大利调味饭（6.45英镑）。饭店的墙壁和楼梯都装饰着群狗的画像和雕塑，仿佛它们随时都想尝一下你的盘中美食。午饭之后，请探索乔治大街(George street)和王子大街(Princes street)上的商店，这里既有熟悉的国际大牌，也有本地百货公司杰纳斯(Jenners)——爱丁堡一家以华丽著称的老牌商场。
4 p.m.
下午4点
9. Flowers and Tea
9. 花朵和茶
If the weather is nice — it can shift quickly in Scotland — it’s worth a visit to Edinburgh’s 70-acre Royal Botanic Garden (20A Inverleith Row; rbge.org.uk). Highlights include the Glasshouses, home to palm trees and tropical plants, the Queen Mother’s Memorial Garden and the Scottish Heath Garden, featuring plants commonly found in the Scottish highlands. It’s also a nice place for a break to enjoy the greenery of Scotland, or have an afternoon cup of tea at the Terrace Cafe. (To keep up with the locals, aim for several cups of tea every day.)
苏格兰的天气可谓瞬息万变。如果天气不错，爱丁堡占地70英亩的皇家植物园(Royal Botanic Garden; 20A Inverleith Row; rbge.org.uk)非常值得一去。它的亮点包括许多间温室、养育了多种棕榈树和热带植物、太后时代纪念花园(Queen Mother’s Memorial Garden)和专注于苏格兰高地(Scottish highlands)植物的苏格兰希斯花园(Scottish Heath Garden)。植物园是一边享受苏格兰绿荫一边休息的好地方，也可以在露天咖啡馆(Terrace Cafe)里喝杯下午茶（为了像个当地人，请努力做到每天都喝几杯茶）。
7 p.m.
下午7点
10. By the River
10. 河流之畔
Head down to Leith, Edinburgh’s port on the Firth of Forth, an industrial waterfront that is now a dining and drinking destination, including restaurants that boast Michelin stars. Have a drink at the Shore (3 Shore; fishersbistros.co.uk), an old wood-paneled pub overlooking the Water of Leith, then wander a few blocks up to the Vintage (60 Henderson Street; thevintageleith.co.uk) for dinner. Serving craft beer, a grazing menu of charcuterie like hot-smoked pig cheeks (£3) and main dishes like rainbow trout and beet root with foraged greens (£12.50), the Vintage blends traditional and modern cooking in an atmosphere that offers a similar mix. Dishes arrive on wooden boards, but the open kitchen and sleek lighting lend a more urban feel to the décor.
请直奔利思(Leith)而去。利思是福斯湾(Firth of Forth)在爱丁堡的港口，也是当地一个繁忙热闹的码头，挤满了吃喝玩乐场所，包括以米其林星评为傲的几家餐厅。到海滩酒吧(Shore; 3 Shore; fishersbistros.co.uk)喝一杯。这家古老的酒吧俯瞰着利思河(Water of Leith)，装饰以木条为特色。接下来再走几个街区，到古典饭店(Vintage; 60 Henderson treet; thevintageleith.co.uk)吃晚餐。它供应精酿啤酒和种类繁多的熟食，比如高温熏烤的猪脸肉（3英镑）、主菜有搭配甜菜根和其他蔬菜的虹鳟鱼（12.50英镑）等。古典饭店融合了传统和当代美食，现场气氛也同时体现了新旧两种气质。菜品是放在木板上端上桌的，但开放式厨房和优雅的照明让装修多了些都市感觉。
SUNDAY
星期日
10 a.m.
上午10点
11. Up the Hill
11. 登上山顶
Start the day with a walk up Calton Hill, arguably the city’s best vantage point, with views of Leith and the Firth of Forth, Edinburgh Castle and the volcanic hill known as Arthur’s Seat. At the top of Calton Hill, the 12 Doric columns of the unfinished National Monument were meant to honor those who died in the Napoleonic Wars, but are now referred to as “Edinburgh’s disgrace.” For an even higher view, climb Nelson Monument, a telescope-shaped tower built to commemorate Admiral Horatio Nelson’s victory (and death) in the Battle of Trafalgar.
以登顶卡尔顿山(Calton Hill)来作为一天的开始。卡尔顿山据说是该城最好的观景点，可以看到利思码头、福斯湾、爱丁堡城堡和号称亚瑟王宝座(Arthur’s Seat)的几座火山。站在卡尔顿山的顶峰，可以看到没有竣工的国立纪念碑(National Monument)上12根多利安式圆柱。国立纪念碑本来打算纪念拿破仑战争(Napoleonic Wars)中牺牲的军人，但现在却被称作“爱丁堡之耻”。如果想站在更高的地方看风景，请爬上纳尔逊纪念碑(Nelson Monument)。那是一座望远镜形状的高塔，用来纪念霍雷肖·纳尔逊上将(Admiral Horatio Nelson)在特拉法加战役(Battle of Trafalgar)中的胜利（与牺牲）。
Noon
正午
12. Local Lunch
12. 本地午餐
Occupying a 19th-century building that once housed the gardener who tended the Royal Terrace Gardens (below Calton Hill), the Gardener’s Cottage (1 Royal Terrace Gardens, enter from London Road; thegardenerscottage.co) serves seasonal dishes to diners at three communal tables. A chalkboard menu announces specialties, like carrot soup (£5), crowdie (a Scottish cheese) and wild garlic quiche (£6) or hake with braised lettuce, bacon and fermented chard (£15). The staff does double-duty attending to a record player near the entrance, spinning jazz and other tunes that create an ambience well suited to a garden meal.
园丁木屋饭店（Gardener’s Cottage; 1 Royal Terrace Gardens，正门在伦敦路[London Road]上； thegardenerscottage.co）设在一座19世纪的建筑里，以前的主人是负责照料皇家台地花园（Royal Terrace Gardens；位于卡尔顿山脚下）的园丁。饭店的三张公用餐桌上供应多种当季菜肴。用粉笔写在黑板上的菜单显示了这里的特色菜，比如胡萝卜汤（5英镑），克朗迪干酪（一种苏格兰特产奶酪）、加了野蒜的乳蛋饼（6英镑），或者搭配炖莴苣、培根和腌甜菜的鳕鱼（15英镑）。饭店服务员身兼两职，负责照料入口附近的卡式录音机，播放爵士等多种音乐作品，营造出与花园美食非常和谐的一种氛围。
LODGING
住宿
The newly renovated Glasshouse Hotel (2 Greenside Place; theglasshousehotel.co.uk) at the foot of Calton Hill has rooms from £150, some with terraces, all with access to a two-acre roof garden.
位于卡尔顿山脚下的葛拉思豪斯酒店(Glasshouse Hotel；2 Greenside Place;theglasshousehotel.co.uk)最近刚刚经过翻新，房价150英镑起。部分客房带阳台，每间客房都能通向面积2英亩的屋顶花园。
Hotel Missoni Edinburgh (1 George IV Bridge; hotelmissoni.com), just off the Royal Mile, offers colorful rooms from £170 and the stylish Bar Missoni.
爱丁堡米索尼酒店(Hotel Missoni Edinburgh; 1 George IV Bridge; hotelmissoni.com), 就在皇家英里旁边，色彩斑斓的客房170英镑起，还有个时髦漂亮的米索尼酒吧(Bar Missoni)。