Between the jaw-dropping confluence of mountains and sea, some of the best ethnic food in North America and public transit bliss courtesy of the Canada Line and SkyTrain, Vancouver is much more than an erstwhile Olympic site, or a place to stop over on your way to some other destination. Where else can you find an international brand of exoticism that rivals Hong Kong, Nordic-style order and a limitless array of shops, restaurants and top-notch accommodations? An abundance of outdoor options — whether it is hiking or biking in Stanley Park, kayaking in False Creek or skiing on nearby Grouse Mountain — only adds to the appeal. The city doesn’t take its natural gifts for granted; in recent years it has become so eco-friendly that some stores don’t even offer plastic bags. With its multitude of immigrant communities and northwest Canadian culture of extreme friendliness, Vancouver feels just different enough to be intriguingly foreign but familiar enough to be easily conquered in a weekend.
温哥华位于群山和大海之间，景色迷人，有着北美洲味道最好的各国美食，还有出色的公共交通，尤其是出色的加拿大线(Canada Line)和天车(SkyTrain)轻轨。温哥华绝不只是个办过奥运会的城市，也不只是前往其他目的地时的中转站。除了温哥华，在哪个城市你既能看到媲美香港的大批世界名牌、北欧式的社会秩序，又能找到数不胜数的商店、餐馆和顶级酒店？户外活动的选择也花样繁多，无论到斯坦利公园(Stanley Park)徒步或骑车、到福溪(False Creek)玩皮划艇，还是到附近的松鸡山(Grouse Mountain)滑雪，都能让温哥华之旅更加引人入胜。这座城市并没有将自然之美当作理所当然的事；近几年这里非常重视环保，部分商店已不再提供塑料购物袋。多样化的移民社区加上太平洋西北地区超级友善的加拿大文化，让温哥华有足够诱人的异国风情，又亲切熟稔得足以在一个周末轻松逛完。
FRIDAY
星期五
4:30 p.m.
下午4:30
1. Two Views 
1.两个位置看风景
Vancouver is a movie-star-gorgeous city that should be admired from as many vantage points as possible. Start with a glass elevator ride 553 feet up to the Vancouver Lookout at the Harbor Center (555 West Hastings Street; vancouverlookout.com; 15.75 Canadian dollars, about the same in U.S. dollars). The circular viewing platform offers 360-degree panoramic views of the downtown skyline, Mount Seymour, Grouse Mountain, Lions Gate Bridge and seaplanes taking off from the harborfront. Then make like a local commuter and head for the SeaBus at Waterfront Station (601 West Cordova Street; bus information at 604-953-3333) less than a five-minute walk away. Board the ferry (4 dollars each way) to North Vancouver, a 15-minute boat ride that has to be one of the most stunning commutes in the world. Find seats at the front of the boat for the best views of North Vancouver and the snowcapped peaks of Olympic fame. Once you dock in North Vancouver, walk right next door to Lonsdale Quay Market (123 Carrie Cates; lonsdalequay.com) where you can find everything from curry to souvlaki in the international food section. Then head up to the Cheshire Cheese pub, sit out on the deck and order a pitcher of sangria and nachos. Enjoy the view — now of downtown, the industrial port and Burrard Inlet.
温哥华优雅美丽仿佛电影明星，所以我们应该尽可能从多个角度欣赏。从海港中心(Harbor Center)的温哥华观光塔（555 West Hastings Street；vancouverlookout.com；15.75加元，换成美元基本数额持平）开始我们的旅行。圆形的观光平台让我们以360度的视野欣赏全景的温哥华，包括市中心、西摩山(Mount Seymour)、松鸡山(Grouse Mountain)、狮门大桥(Lions Gate Bridge)以及从海港出发的水上飞机。接下来，学着当地人的样子到滨海车站（Waterfront Station; 601 West Cordova Street；班次信息查询604-953-3333）搭乘海上巴士。站点距海港中心不到5分钟的步程。坐上渡船（单程4加元）去北温哥华(North Vancouver)，行程只有15分钟，但沿途风景美妙绝伦，堪称世界最壮丽的通勤线路之一。在渡船的前排找个座位，欣赏壮丽的北温哥华风光和曾是奥运会会场的雪山。到达北温以后，就步行到码头右侧的伦兹戴尔码头市场(Lonsdale Quay Market; 123 Carrie Cates; lonsdalequay.com)逛逛。那里物品丰富，国际美食区从咖喱到希腊烤肉串什么都有。接下来去柴郡奶酪吧(Cheshire Cheese pub)。坐在露台上，点一扎桑格利亚汽酒和一份墨西哥辣味玉米片，边吃边看风景——这次看到的是温哥华市区、工业港口和巴拉德湾(Burrard Inlet)。
8 p.m.
晚上8点
2. Japanese Tapas 
2.日本开胃小点心
Like many cities, Vancouver has seen an explosion of farm-to-table restaurants pop up, but go for a Vancouver classic instead: Guu, the first of a style of traditional izakaya (offering small-plate Japanese cooking). This is no sushi joint, but the tuna tataki, kimchi fried rice, kabocha croquette and yaki udon will make you forget about California rolls. Sit at the bar and watch meticulous chefs flip, slice and arrange plates with the precision of a martial arts performance. Food arrives fast and at a quarter of the price of a trendy restaurant. Dinner for two, including drinks, is about 50 dollars. Guu has five locations in Vancouver, but Guu Original on Thurlow Street (838 Thurlow Street; guu-izakaya.com) has the reputation of being the most authentic. Enjoy the spirited Japanese welcome and goodbye from the servers and chefs as each guest arrives and departs.
像许多城市一样，大批“从农场到餐桌”饭店在温哥华迅速涌现，但我们晚餐要体验的是另一个经典的美食去处——Guu餐厅。Guu是温哥华第一家传统风格的日本居酒屋（供应装在小碟里的日本料理）。这里并不是卖寿司的那种廉价小店，相反，它的霜烧金枪鱼、泡菜炒饭、炸南瓜丸子和海鲜炒乌冬面会让你将加州卷完全忘到脑后。坐在吧台前，观察厨师们一丝不苟地翻转食材、切片、装盘，精确认真仿佛在进行武术表演。上菜的速度很快，价格却只有时髦餐厅的四分之一。两人晚餐含酒水只要50加元。Guu在温哥华有五家店，但最早的那家位于Thurlow Street大街(838 Thurlow Street; guu-izakaya.com)，也是口味最正宗的一家。每位顾客到达和离开时，服务员及厨师都会表示欢迎和欢送，态度热情洋溢，请尽情享受。
10:30 p.m.
晚上10:30
3. Nightcap 
3.睡前小酒
Time to glam it up at the Yew Seafood and Bar in the Four Seasons Hotel (791 West Georgia Street; yewrestaurant.com), a dramatic space with 26-foot ceilings and a plush lounge area. The ambience is relaxed with a dash of ritzy, but it’s really about the cocktails. The head mixologist, Justin Taylor, has created over two dozen drinks. Try the Moscow Mule (vodka, lime and ginger beer), served in an elegant bronze cup, or the 20th Century (gin, crème de cacao and lemon). Fair warning: these cocktails go down easy; from 11 to 16 dollars.
是时候到四季酒店(Four Seasons Hotel)的紫杉海鲜餐吧(791 West Georgia Street; yewrestaurant.com)找点乐子了。餐吧空间非常大，天花板26英尺高，还有个华美的休闲区。装修华丽，气氛放松，但我们来这里的主要目的是鸡尾酒。首席调酒师贾斯丁·泰勒(Justin Taylor)创造的饮品超过20种。尝试一下优雅青铜杯里的“莫斯科骡子”（Moscow Mule；伏特加、青柠和姜汁啤酒兑成）或“20世纪”（金酒、可可甜酒和柠檬调制而成）。警告：这些鸡尾酒不知不觉就喝完了；每杯11至16加元。
SATURDAY 
星期六
10 a.m.
上午10点
4. Pastries and Greenery 
4.糕点和绿色植物
Start the morning at Thierry (1059 Alberni Street; thierrychocolates.com), on Alberni Street, a traditional French bakery where you can grab an almond croissant and a cappuccino. Pocket some of the macarons in flavors like chocolate pistachio, maple pecan and coffee for later. Then hop on the Canada Line southbound to the VanDusen Botanical Garden (5251 Oak Street; vancouver.ca/vandusen). Regardless of the blossoms du jour, it’s all sublime, so meander your way through this 55-acre eco-cocoon of 255,000 individual plants from around the world. Don’t miss the hedge maze. See if you can get to the monkey puzzle tree in the middle.
在Alberni Street大街的蒂埃里面包房(Thierry; 1059 Alberni Street; thierrychocolates.com)开始又一个清晨。蒂埃里是家法式传统面包房，供应外卖的杏仁羊角面包和卡布奇诺咖啡。顺便买几只巧克力开心果、枫糖胡桃和咖啡口味的马卡龙带走，做以后的零食。接下来，跳上向南行驶的加拿大线去范度森植物园(VanDusen Botanical Garden; 5251 Oak Street; vancouver.ca/vandusen)。不管当时哪种植物正在开花，风景都无比美妙。在这座面积55英亩的环保花园里漫步，尽情欣赏来自世界各地的25.5万种植物。千万不要错过那里的树篱迷宫，试试看自己能否找到迷宫中间的智利南洋杉。
1 p.m.
下午1点
5. Dim Sum 
5.点心
For one of the most genuine Asian cultural and culinary experiences in North America, go to the Aberdeen Center for dim sum at Fisherman’s Terrace (3580-4151 Hazelbridge Way, Richmond; 604-303-9739). This sprawling Asian shopping center has an entire store dedicated to Hello Kitty merchandise, a Korean barbecue and a pan-Asian supermarket, among other treasures. Fisherman’s Terrace, as evinced by the crowds mingling outside, is a favorite institution among the thousands of Chinese residents of Richmond, a suburb 20 minutes south of Vancouver. Make a reservation or bring your own reading material if you don’t (all the newspapers are in Chinese). Then sift through the 76 options on the dim sum menu. A cheat sheet: deep-fried chicken knee with spicy salt, mini sticky rice in bamboo leaves, steamed pork dumplings, triple mushrooms in rice noodle wrap, and chilled coconut cake with diced taro. Go with an adventurous eater to try some of the dishes you’d be unlikely to find at most Westernized Chinese restaurants, like steamed duck tongue. Items range from 3.65 to 8.80 dollars.
为了体验北美最正宗的亚洲文化和美食体验，请到时代坊(Aberdeen Center)的钓鱼台海鲜酒楼(Fisherman’s Terrace; 3580-4151 Hazelbridge Way, Richmond; 604-303-9739)品尝点心。时代坊是个规模庞大的亚洲购物中心，里面宝物众多，包括专卖Hello Kitty猫用品的商店、韩国烤肉店和一个泛亚超市。从门外拥挤等座的人群可以看出，钓鱼台海鲜酒楼是列治文(Richmond)地区数万华人移民的最爱。列治文位于距离温哥华大约20分钟的南侧郊区。请提前订位，不然请自带阅读材料（饭店里所有报纸都是中文的）。然后，请在菜单上的76种点心中挑选。秘密推荐：椒盐炸鸡腿、竹叶包裹的小糯米卷、猪肉蒸饺、三色金针菇糯米卷和香芋冻椰糕。跟随有探索精神的吃货一起前往，品尝一些在大多数西化中餐馆都见不到的东西，比如蒸鸭舌。价格每种3.65至8.80加元。
3 p.m.
下午3点
6. Shopping in Yaletown 
6.在耶鲁城(Yaletown)购物
Gastown may be one of Vancouver’s most visited neighborhoods, but Yaletown, a former industrial area in downtown that is now dotted with restaurants and high-price lofts, should not be overlooked as a shopping destination. This upscale neighborhood has a neat collection of boutiques. Chintz & Company (950 Homer Street; chintz.com/t-vancouver.aspx), which has locations only in Canada, is a great place to buy jewelry, pillows and luscious TokyoMilk hand cream. Revolucion (1062 Mainland Street; revolucionstyle.com) is a men’s store with an entire wall of high-end shaving products and grooming kits (there is also a wine caddy in the shape of a woman’s foot). A few doors down is Global Atomic Designs (1144 Mainland Street; globalatomic.com), which sells an array of international designer clothes.
煤气镇(Gastown)大约是温哥华游客最多的社区之一，但耶鲁城作为购物胜地却绝不能被忽略。位于市区的耶鲁城以前是个工业区，现在布满了酒店和高档的LOFT式住宅。这个富裕的住宅区集中了不少漂亮的精品店。只在加拿大开店的Chintz & Company公司(950 Homer Street; chintz.com/t-vancouver.aspx)是购买珠宝、枕头靠垫，还有柔润香滑的“东京牛奶”(TokyoMilk)护手霜的好地方。Revolucion(1062 Mainland Street;revolucionstyle.com)是个男士用品店，整面墙都陈列着高端的剃须用品和全套的男士美容护理产品（还有一座做成女人脚形状的葡萄酒架）。同一条街不远处的全球原子设计(Global Atomic Designs; 1144 Mainland Street; globalatomic.com)出售来自世界各地的设计师服装。
4:30 p.m.
下午4:30
7. First Nations
7.原住民
Before Vancouver became a mecca for immigrants, there were the First Nations — Canadian aboriginals, whose culture and art is very much a presence in the city. To get a sense of the craftsmanship and art that is still being produced, head to Inuit Gallery in Gastown (206 Cambie Street, inuit.com). “The Inuit art market is big in the Northwest, from Portland to Southern Alaska,” said Phil McComiskey, who works at the gallery. Check out the paintings and prints of Kenojuak Ashevak, an Inuit artist from Canada’s Arctic regions; her work, which is known for its geometric shapes and nature imagery, has been used on Canadian stamps. To find some First Nations arts and crafts at more affordable prices, go across the street to Hill’s Native Art (165 Water Street, hillsnativeart.com), which carries a nice selection of jewelry, woodcarvings, sculpture and prints.
温哥华成为移民圣地之前，就有许多土著人居住，加拿大原住民的文化和艺术至今仍是这个城市的卖点之一。若想了解至今仍在使用的手工艺品和艺术品，请到煤气镇(Gastown)的因纽特美术馆(Inuit Gallery; 206 Cambie Street, inuit.com)。“因纽特艺术在美洲西北市场非常大，涵盖了从波特兰到阿拉斯加南部的广大区域，”美术馆的工作人员菲尔·麦克科米斯基(Phil McComiskey)说。请关注因努特艺术家Kenojuak Ashevak的绘画作品，包括原件和复印件。Kenojuak Ashevak来自北极地带的因努特聚居区，她的作品以几何图形和自然意象著称，部分作品被印在加拿大的邮票上。如果想要价格更加亲民的原住民艺术品和手工艺品，请到街道对面的Hill’s Native Art商店(165 Water Street,hillsnativeart.com)，那里有质量不错的精选珠宝、木刻、雕塑和印刷品。
8 p.m.
晚上8点
8. 4-Layered Seafood Cake 
8.四层海鲜蛋糕
When in Vancouver, eat lots of seafood, the unrivaled local specialty. One of the most talked about, albeit not inexpensive, places to do this is Blue Water Cafe (1095 Hamilton Street; bluewatercafe.net) on Hamilton Street. Stick to the raw bar and entrees (this is not the place for sushi). Start off with an oyster platter and the BC tasting for two, which resembles a four-tiered seafood wedding cake of Dungeness crab salad, scallop ceviche, albacore tuna tartar and smoked sockeye salmon terrine. For cooked seafood, order the arctic char with trout caviar, beurre blanc and pearl couscous. Save room for the passion fruit semifreddo. Dinner for two, about 250 dollars.
海鲜是温哥华美味无敌的本地特产，在此地旅行的时候一定要尽情品尝。Hamilton Street大街上的蓝水饭店(Blue Water Café; 1095 Hamilton Street; bluewatercafe.net)是名气最大也最值得探访的去处之一，而价格却并不昂贵。直奔生鲜吧台和主菜（这里不是吃寿司的地方）。先点一份两人量的生蚝拼盘和卑诗特色菜，包括一个海鲜做成的四层婚礼蛋糕，里面有丹吉内斯螃蟹色拉、橘汁腌扇贝、鞑靼长鳍金枪鱼和烟熏红鲑鱼砂锅。想吃加工过的海鲜，请点红点鲑鱼、鲑鱼子酱、黄油白沙司，搭配蒸珍珠小米粉。别忘了在胃里为餐后的西番莲意式冰淇淋留下一些空间。两人份的晚餐大约250加元。
10:30 p.m.
晚上10:30
9. Night out in Chinatown 
9.唐人街的夜生活
Until recently, Chinatown was not known as a place to go have drinks on a Saturday night. Not anymore, thanks to the Keefer Bar (135 Keefer Street; thekeeferbar.com), a place where the young and hip show up to drink cocktails in this dark, sultry lounge that has odd Chinese sayings framed on the walls. The cocktails, which the menu calls “prescriptions” (homage to the apothecary theme), are worth waiting at the crowded bar to order, particularly the intriguingly spicy Chinatown Sour (10 dollars) and the Dragon Fly (11 dollars.)
直到不久前，温哥华的唐人街都不是一个周六夜生活的目的地。但现在情况变了，感谢奇花酒吧(Keefer Bar; 135 Keefer Street; thekeeferbar.com)。这是个阴暗而热辣的场所，墙上挂着镶了边框的奇妙中文格言。时髦的年轻人簇拥此地，享受多种鸡尾酒。在菜单上唤作“药方”（向此地药房风格的装修致敬）的鸡尾酒很值得在拥挤的吧台前等待，尤其是火辣诱人的“唐人街之酸”（Chinatown Sour；10加元）和“蜻蜓”（Dragon Fly; 11加元）。
SUNDAY
星期日
9:30 a.m.
上午9:30
10. Teahouse Brunch
10.茶馆早午餐
Spend the morning in Stanley Park, the sprawling urban oasis of greenery and water that is the West Coast’s rival to Central Park. Begin at the Teahouse in Stanley Park, a well-known brunch spot, both for its location and Canadian Northwest twists on some classic breakfast items. Ask for a table by the window to look out over English Bay and West Vancouver. Don’t miss the smoked salmon Benedict, which comes with local sockeye salmon. (7501 Stanley Park Drive; vancouverdine.com/teahouse. Brunch, about 45 dollars, is served weekends.)
上午在斯坦利公园(Stanley Park)度过。这个面积庞大的公园是个绿树如茵的城市绿洲，堪称北美西海岸的中央公园(Central Park)。就从斯坦利公园的茶馆(Teahouse)开始吧。“茶馆”是吃早午餐的知名去处，位置绝佳，里面有太平洋西北地区的经典早餐品种。选一张靠窗的桌子，以便欣赏英吉利湾(English Bay)和西温哥华(West Vancouver)的美景。不要错过加了烟熏红鲑的本尼迪克特蛋(Benedict)，里面用的是本地特产的红鲑鱼（7501 Stanley Park Drive; vancouverdine.com/teahouse.早午餐只在周末提供，价格45加元左右）。
11 a.m.
上午11点
11. Walk and Ride 
11.走路和骑车
Walk off your meal with a stroll along the Lost Lagoon path on the park’s south side. Admire the stately evergreens and wildlife, which includes spotted geese, ducks, swans, turtles and raccoons all within a golf-swing of downtown skyscrapers. If it’s sunny, soak up some rays at Second Beach at the southwest corner of the park. At Spokes Bicycle Rental (1798 West Georgia Street; spokesbicyclerentals.com), you can rent bikes, starting at around 8 dollars per hour. Take the six-mile loop around the sea wall. Be careful as you contend with rollerbladers on this one-way bike path, but mostly just soak up the fresh sea air and marvel at all the natural wonders of Vancouver.
在公园南部围着洛斯特湖(Lost Lagoon)散步，将刚才的食物消化掉。同时欣赏壮丽的绿色植被和野生动植物，包括斑点鹅、鸭子、天鹅、乌龟和浣熊，而这些生物与闹市区的摩天大楼不过一次高尔夫挥杆的距离。如果天气晴好，请在公园西南角的第二海滩(Second Beach)享受日光浴。也可以在辐条自行车租赁店(Spokes Bicycle Rental; 1798 West Georgia Street; spokesbicyclerentals.com)租辆自行车，租金每小时8加元起；体验一下防波堤上6英里长的骑行环路。这条单向自行车道上有不少玩轮滑的人，需要特别注意。但大多数时间你都可以充分享受新鲜的海风，并对温哥华的自然奇迹叹为观止。
WHERE TO STAY
住宿
The Hotel Le Soleil (567 Hornby Street) in the financial district is a 119-room boutique hotel with a South Asian feel. Every room is a suite with its own sitting area. The hotel also has an excellent contemporary Indian restaurant, Copper Chimney. Rooms range from 139 to 249 Canadian dollars.
位于金融区的太阳酒店(Hotel Le Soleil; 567 Hornby Street)是家拥有119间客房的精品酒店，装修采用南亚风格。每间客房都是自带客厅的套间。酒店内设一家漂亮的当代印度餐馆“铜烟囱”(Copper Chimney)。房价从139至249加元不等。
For those looking for luxury, stay at the Four Seasons (791 West Georgia Street). In addition to the top-notch service and airy rooms, the hotel is attached to the Pacific Center, a shopping mall that is a stop on the Canada Line and SkyTrain. Rooms start at 265 Canadian dollars.
喜欢奢华风格的旅行者，请下榻四季酒店(Four Seasons; 791 West Georgia Street)。除了顶级服务和宽敞客房以外，酒店的另一个卖点就是位于太平洋中心(Pacific Center)的隔壁。这座购物中心位于加拿大线和轻轨的换乘点。房价265加元起。