In his State of the Union address last week, along with the standard calls for education reform and energy independence, President Obama gave a shout-out to a growing technology. In a lab in Youngstown, Ohio, the president said, “Workers are mastering the 3-D printing that has the potential to revolutionize the way we make almost anything.”
在奥巴马总统上周的国情咨文讲话中，除了再次呼吁教育改革和能源独立，他赞美了一种发展中的技术。奥巴马在俄亥俄州扬斯顿的一个实验室说，“工人正努力掌握3D打印技术，这一技术将可能变革我们制造几乎每件东西的方式。”
When Brook Drumm saw clips from the speech at his home outside Sacramento, Calif., he wanted to reach through his TV and give the president a fist bump. Mr. Drumm, a bald, goateed father of three, designed the Printrbot, a desktop 3-D printer kit. Like a number of other 3-D printers, it uses heated plastic — applied layer by layer to a heated bed by a glue-gun-like extruder — to turn designs created on a computer into real objects.
当布鲁克·德拉姆(Brook Drumm)在加州萨克拉门托外的家中看到讲话的片段时，他想穿过电视机，跟总统碰碰拳头。这位秃顶、蓄着山羊胡的父亲有三个孩子，他设计了台式3D打印设备Printrbot。像其他一些3D打印机一样，Printrbot通过加热塑料——利用胶枪式的挤压机将一层层塑料叠加到高温底盘上——将在电脑上所做的设计变为实际物体。
As Mr. Drumm illustrated in the Kickstarter campaign he used to raise more than $830,000 to start his business in late 2011, the Printrbot is small enough to fit on a kitchen counter, next to the Mr. Coffee. “The goal for the company,” Mr. Drumm said in world-beating tones, “is a printer in every home and every school.”
正如德拉姆在Kickstarter网站的活动中所展示的，Printbot小到可以放在厨房流理台的咖啡机旁，正是在这次活动中德拉姆成功筹资83万美元（约合516万元人民币），在2011年晚些时候开办了他的公司。德拉姆用极其骄傲的语调说道，“公司的目标是让每个家庭、每个学校都拥有打印机。”
The technology for 3-D printing has existed for years, and President Obama was referring to its applications in manufacturing. But there is a growing sense that 3-D printers may be the home appliance of the future, much as personal computers were 30 years ago, when Dick Cavett referred to the Apple II in a TV commercial as “the appliance of the ’80s for all those pesky household chores.”
3D打印技术已经存在多年，奥巴马总统指的是这种技术在制造业中的应用。人们日益感觉到3D打印机可能会在未来成为家用电器，就像30年前的个人电脑一样，当时迪克·卡维特(Dick Cavett)在一个电视广告里称，苹果(Apple)II电脑“是80年代处理所有麻烦家务事的电器”。
Like computers, 3-D printers originally proved their worth in the business sector, cost a fortune and were bulkier than a Kelvinator. But in the last few years, less expensive desktop models have emerged, and futurists and 3-D printing hobbyists are now envisioning a world in which someone has an idea for a work-saving tool — or breaks the hour hand on their kitchen clock or loses the cap to the shampoo bottle — and simply prints the invention or the replacement part.
与电脑一样，3D打印机首先证明了自己在商业领域的价值，价格昂贵，体积比Kelvinator冰箱还大。但过去几年已出现了较为便宜的台式机型，未来主义者和3D打印爱好者如今正在设想这样一个世界：某人设计了一种省力工具，或者弄坏了厨房钟表的时针，或者丢掉了洗发水瓶盖，可以简单地将发明的工具或者替换部件打印出来。
Bre Pettis, the chief executive officer of MakerBot, the Brooklyn-based company leading the charge in making 3-D printers for the consumer market, has seen how the technology is already being applied. “We have stories of people who have fixed their blenders, fixed their espresso machine,” he said.
MakerBot是一家总部位于布鲁克林的公司，领导着为个人消费者制作3D打印机的潮流，它的首席执行官布里·佩蒂斯(Bre Pettis)见证了这项技术的应用。他说，“我们了解到，有人利用3D打印机修好了他们的搅拌机和特浓咖啡机。”
A file-sharing database MakerBot oversees, called Thingiverse, currently holds more than 36,000 downloadable designs. “One of my favorite stories from Thingiverse is a dad who has a daughter who is 41 inches tall,” Mr. Pettis said. “They were going to an amusement park, and she wasn’t going to be able to go on any of the rides because the minimum height was 42 inches. The dad made orthopedic inserts for her shoes.”
MakerBot旗下名为Thingiverse的文件共享数据库目前有逾3.6万款可下载的设计。“有一位父亲，他的女儿有41英寸（约合1米）高，”佩蒂斯说，“他们要去游乐园，但她不能玩任何项目，因为游乐园的最低身高要求为42英寸。这位父亲为女儿制作了矫形垫放在鞋子里。这是我最喜欢的故事之一。”
Last fall, MakerBot opened what may be the first retail store devoted to 3-D printers, in Lower Manhattan. Inside, demonstration models of the company’s Replicator 2, a slick, steel-framed machine with the boxy dimensions of a microwave that sells for about $2,200, are constantly printing, turning files created on Trimble SketchUp and other computer-aided design (CAD) software into things like architecture models or smartphone cases.
去年秋天，MakerBot在曼哈顿下城区开设了首家专卖3D打印机的零售店。店里摆放着该公司的Replicator 2展示模型，这是一款外形吸引人的钢架结构的机器，长方形，体积为一个微波炉大小，售价2200美元（约合13696元人民币）。样品机不断打印，将通过Trimble SketchUp和其他电脑辅助设计(CAD)软件创建的文件，变成建筑模型或智能手机外壳等物品。
BUT FOR ALL THE EXCITEMENT surrounding 3-D printing, there is still a significant gap between its potential and the current reality. The 15,000 or so early adopters who have bought a MakerBot printer are mostly design professionals or hobbyists from the maker community, not homeowners who still have trouble programming the remote. And the things being printed still tend to be trinkets like toys, key chains or just colorful pieces of plastic in amusing shapes.
尽管3D打印技术点燃了人们的热情，但在其未来潜力与目前实际发展之间还存在着巨大的差距。大约1.5万名购买MakerBot打印机的早期使用者大多数是专业设计人员，或制造3D打印机行业的感兴趣的人，而不是那些连为遥控器编程都有困难的普通个人。打印的东西仍然是玩具、钥匙链之类的小东西，或者是形状有趣的彩色塑料片。
Mr. Drumm bought a kit a couple of years ago because he wanted to be “the first family on our block to have a 3-D printer,” he said. After assembling the machine, a complicated task that required a knowledge of soldering, he and his 6-year-old son managed to print a bottle opener. “It took 45 minutes and it was kind of crappy, but I was encouraged,” Mr. Drumm said. “O.K., we’re doing this at our kitchen table.”
德拉姆表示自己在几年前购买了一套打印设备，他说，那时因为他想成为“我们街区第一个拥有3D打印机的家庭”。组装打印机是一项复杂的工作，需要懂焊接技术，德拉姆组装完毕后，他和六岁的儿子成功打印出一个开瓶器。“打印用了45分钟，开瓶器不怎么样，但我受到了鼓励，”德拉姆说，“好，我们在厨房的桌子上打印。”
It’s a sentiment Mr. Pettis hopes other parents will share. He is betting they will buy 3-D printers for their children, despite the current limitations, in the same way his family purchased a Commodore 64 home computer back in the early 1980s. The machines represent the future, he said, and “for the cost of a laptop” they offer “an education in manufacturing.”
佩蒂斯希望其他家长也能分享这种态度。他断定，家长们会为了自己的孩子购买3D打印机，尽管它目前还有缺点，就像佩蒂斯家在20世纪80年代早期购买Commodore 64家用电脑一样。他表示，3D打印机代表了未来，提供了“制造方面的教育”，“而费用只是一台笔记本电脑的价格”。
Still, at $2,200, a Replicator 2 costs more than most laptops, and in this sluggish economy, one imagines families could find more essential uses for that money.
但Replicator 2的售价——2200美元——要高于大多数笔记本电脑，而且在经济低迷的情况下，我们可以想象，家庭能够用这笔钱做更重要的事情。
When he was designing the Printrbot, that was one of the things Mr. Drumm had in mind. He wanted the kit to be easy to assemble and to require no soldering, he said, but most of all he wanted it to be cheap. “It became obvious to me that it can’t be $1,200 or even $800,” he said. He settled on a price of about $550.
这是德拉姆设计Printrbot时的思考之一。他说他想让这种设备易于组装，不需要焊接，但最重要的是，价格要便宜。他说，“我越来越清楚地认识到，不能将价格定为1200美元，甚至800美元也不行。”他最终定价550美元。
“People don’t know what they’re going to do with it,” he added. “I just say, ‘This is such a new technology. Get your feet wet.’ ”
“人们不知道用这个机器做什么，”他补充说，“我只会说，‘这是项新技术。试试吧’。”
IT MAY ONLY BE A MATTER OF TIME until a 3-D printer shares shelf space in the home with the laptop or TV, and of course Mr. Pettis already has a Replicator 2 on his coffee table in Brooklyn. But at the moment, the most common place to find a desktop 3-D printer may be at a hacker space, where hobbyists gather to share tips and troubleshoot what can be glitchy machines to operate.
3D打印机会有一天在家里的橱架上和笔记本电脑或者电视放在一起，这只是个时间问题，当然，佩蒂斯已经在布鲁克林的咖啡桌上放了一台Replicator 2。但目前，台式3D打印机最常出现的地方可能是创客空间，爱好者会聚集在那里分享心得、解决打印机的故障并修复，这些机器可能会经常出问题。
Consider 2-D printers with their paper jams and low-toner warnings, then remember that most 3-D printers use hot plastic and don’t come with an office repairman.
想想2D打印机的卡纸和缺墨提示，而大多数3D打印机使用的都是滚烫的塑料，办公室里也没人会修。
Hack Manhattan holds a weekly event called 3-D Thursday in its narrow second-floor workroom on 14th Street. One evening last month David Reeves and Justin Levinson, two club members, sat huddled around a printer Mr. Reeves had built using plans available free online. Its exposed wires and bare rod frame gave the machine the look of a homely science fair entry, but the bit-like extruder circled with the quick, precise movements of a hummingbird, printing layer by plastic layer.
每周，“曼哈顿创客”(Hack Manhattan)都要在位于第14街某栋楼二层的狭窄工作室内举办叫做“3D星期四”(3-D Thursday)的活动。上个月一天晚上，俱乐部两位成员戴维·里夫斯(David Reeves)和贾斯廷·莱文森(Justin Levinson)挤坐在一台打印机旁。这台打印机是里夫斯根据网上的免费指南制作的。它暴露在外的电线和光秃秃的框架让这台机器看起来就像是科学博览会上一个毫不起眼的展品，但是它小小的喷口以像蜂鸟般迅速而精确的动作，一层一层地用塑料打印。
In a mind-bending technology feedback loop, Mr. Reeves, a research scientist who likes to tinker, was using his 3-D printer to make parts to build another 3-D printer.
在一个不可思议的科技反馈环里，喜欢自己动手修东西的研究科学家里夫斯在用他的3D打印机制作部件，来打造另一台3D打印机。
Nearby, Matthew Duepner was hoping to get tips on modifying the Printrbot Jr. kit he had bought for $400 at a fair and has been testing in his bedroom. A 15-year-old high school sophomore at the Professional Children’s School, Mr. Duepner learned about 3-D printing at a workshop at M.I.T., he said, and “just fell in love with it.”
马修·迪佩纳(Matthew Duepner)在一次博览会花400美元购买了一台Printrbot Jr.设备，他一直在自己的卧室中对这台机器进行测试。在活动中，迪佩纳希望能得到一些调适的指导。他是职业儿童学校(Professional Children’s School)的一名高二学生，现年15岁。他说，他是在麻省理工学院(MIT)的一次研讨会上了解到3D打印的，然后“就爱上了它”。
He was excited because he had recently found a Long Island source for cheap plastic, the 3-D equivalent of printer ink. “You should see the spool,” he said. “It’s like as big as me. Dude, it’s crazy.”
他很激动，因为最近他在长岛找到了廉价塑料供应，这种塑料相当于3D打印机的油墨。“你真应该看看那卷东西，”他说，“它几乎和我的身体差不多大小。老兄，这太疯狂了。”
Mr. Levinson, an editor at Makeshift, a magazine that spotlights creativity, said he can think of at least one practical use for a 3-D printer: the burner on his mother’s oven is broken and she can no longer get a replacement part. “Entire objects are rendered useless because a stupid piece of plastic broke,” he said. Being able to print a new one, he added, “makes the life cycle of objects a lot longer.”
莱文森是关注创意的杂志《Makeshift》的编辑，他说，他至少能为3D打印机想到一个实际用途：他妈妈的烤箱上的炉膛坏了，但是她现在找不到替换的。他说，“就因为一小块塑料出了问题，整个东西都没用了。”他还说，因为能够打印出一个新的部件，“物体的使用寿命延长了很多。”
But Mr. Levinson doesn’t have a 3-D printer at home, and perhaps he’s wise to hold off for now.
但是，莱文森家里并没有3D打印机，也许他目前还不出手是明智的。
Another visitor, Jim Galvin, a lighting programmer for film and television, said he spent around $1,100 for a Cupcake, an early MakerBot model. It came in handy when he printed an iPhone holder for his car. Even so, he complained, “anything I’ve printed I’ve printed at least eight times to get right,” and the Cupcake malfunctioned often. “I became a 3-D printer mechanic, and that’s not what I wanted to be.” (A Replicator 2 sitting on a shelf at Hack Manhattan, with a sign taped to it reading “Not Working! Do Not Use,” suggests MakerBot’s latest model isn’t glitch-proof either.)
另一名活动参与者、电影电视灯光照明的程序设计员吉姆·高尔文(Jim Galvin)说，他花大概1100美元购买了一台Cupcake，是MakerBot的一款早期产品。他用这台机器为汽车打印了一个iPhone支架。他抱怨说，尽管如此，“不管打印什么东西，我都至少要打八次才能弄对，”而且Cupcake经常出问题。“我成了一名3D打印机修理工，我可不想干这种活。”（“曼哈顿创客”的一个架子上摆着一台Replicator 2，它上面贴着一个标签，上面写着“故障！请勿使用”，这说明MakerBot的最新型号也并非不会出故障。）
Still, the iPhone holder Mr. Galvin made seemed to demonstrate 3-D printing’s potential. Because he uses two protective cases, his phone is too wide to fit inside a standard holder — a problem that may be unique to Mr. Galvin, and one he was able to solve with his 3-D printer. “That’s what I think is so exciting about 3-D printing,” he said. “Whatever you need, all that stuff you want to make, you can make.”
然而，高尔文打印的iPhone支架似乎展示了3D打印的潜力。因为用了两层保护壳，所以他的手机因为太宽而无法装进标准支架，这个问题或许是高尔文所独有的，也是他能通过他的3D打印机来解决的。“我认为这就是3D打印让人如此兴奋的地方，”他说，“不管你需要什么，你都可以制造出你想要的所有东西。”
It was clear that despite the technical challenges and costs, everyone in the room was as enthusiastic about the technology as Mr. Galvin. Throughout the evening, they debated the various types of plastic, shared operating tips and new developments they had seen or heard (Mr. Duepner described one model that printed pancake batter), and speculated on how 3-D printing will bring about the revolution President Obama foreshadowed in his speech.
虽然还存在技术问题，花费也较高，但是屋里的每个人明显都与高尔文一样，对这项技术充满了热情。整个晚上，他们都在讨论各种类型的塑料、分享自己见到或听到的操作建议和新发展（迪佩纳描述了一个曾打印过打蛋器的机型），并预测3D打印将如何带来奥巴马总统在讲话中所提到的革命。