If all goes well, Space, a charity that provides studio space for about 700 designers and artists in east London, will hit its target of £10,000 in a crowdfunding campaign that ends Saturday and can then buy the equipment it needs to open a digital manufacturing facility named Fab Lab.
假如一切顺利的话，“空间”(Space)这个在伦敦东部为大约700名设计师和艺术家提供工作室的慈善团体，可以在这周六结束的众筹活动中募得一万英镑资金，买下它为开设一家名叫“精彩实验室”(Fab Lab)的数码技术生产场所所需的设备。
Like designers and artists all over the world, the occupants of Space’s studios are eager to experiment with the latest advances in 3D printing and other digital production technologies, which promise to transform the way their work is made, what it looks like and how it will be used. Fab Lab is intended to give them the physical resources to do so, while Space plans to organize debates where they can discuss the possibilities of these new forms of manufacturing.
和全世界的设计师与艺术家们一样，“空间”工作室的成员们渴望配备最先进的3D打印等数码生产技术，它们承诺带来全新的生产方式、产品外观和功效。“精彩实验室”希望为他们提供物质条件，此外“空间”还计划组织讨论，探讨这种新制造方式的可能性。
Translating scientific innovations into things that may make our lives more efficient, enlightened or enjoyable has been an important role of design throughout history; sometimes of art too. Experimenting with the rapidly evolving technology of digital manufacturing forms part of that tradition, which is why it has proved so contentious within design circles. Some see it as a transformational technology akin to the printing press and steam engine, while others dismiss such claims as wildly exaggerated, making it timely to assess what impact 3D printing has made on design so far, and how will it develop in future.
纵观整个历史，应用科技创新，让生活变得更有效率、更进步、更有趣，这一直是设计所扮演的重要角色，有时艺术也会发挥同样作用。应用高速进步的数码技术进行生产也属于这个传统，所以3D打印这个话题在设计圈里才会那么富于争议。有人觉得它是与印刷机和蒸汽机同等重要的革新技术，也有人认为这样的说法太夸张了，因此现在评估3D打印技术对设计的影响及其未来的发展，可以说正是时候。
The technology of 3D printing, a process of additive manufacturing in which solid objects are constructed from fine layers of specially formulated material, dates to the 1980s, when it was invented by an American technologist Charles (Chuck) Hull, who founded the company 3D Systems. Similar processes were deployed to produce complex objects, like the components of aircraft or Formula One cars, which were valuable enough to justify the use of such sophisticated technology and typically made as one-offs or in limited numbers. The process is so fast that each object is made individually, and can therefore be customized to suit the user.
3D打印技术是一种叠层制造工序，运用特殊形式材料，通过逐层打印的方式制作固体物品；该技术20世纪80年代由美国技术专家查尔斯（查克）·胡尔(Charles [Chuck] Hull)发明，他还创立了“3D系统”(3D Systems)公司。类似工序不断发展，最后发展为可以制作复杂的物品，诸如飞机和一级方程式赛车上的元件，它们都非常贵重，之前主要是一次性生产或限量生产的，这足以证明3D打印这种精密技术能发挥巨大作用。这个生产过程非常快，可以单独制造每个部件，也可以实现针对用户的特殊定制。
As the technology has become more efficient and less expensive, 3D printing has expanded into new fields, including the production of medical devices. Some of the companies that apply it on an industrial scale, including CRP Group in Italy and Materialise in Belgium, have collaborated with designers to experiment with ways of using their systems to make furniture and other small objects in far larger quantities.
3D打印技术效率日益增高，成本也愈来愈低廉，因此开始向医疗设备制造等新领域进军。有些公司开始大批量生产3D打印机，包括意大利的CRP集团和比利时的Materialise公司，他们雇用设计师试验使用3D打印系统大批制作家具和其他小物品。
More recently, desktop 3D printers have been developed by companies like 3D Systems and MakerBot in New York, which can be used by consumers with no experience of programming and cost not much more than a decent desktop computer. These printers are so small — the two CubeX machines made by 3D Systems that Space hopes to buy can not manufacture anything bigger than a basketball — they are mostly used to produce knickknacks like phone cases and jewelry, yet they are proving increasingly popular, particularly with designers.
最近，3D系统公司和纽约的MakerBot等公司开发出了台式3D打印机，没有编程经验的消费者也能使用，价格比好的台式电脑贵不了多少。这些打印机非常小——比如“空间”想购买的两台CubeX 3D打印机，它们由3D系统公司生产，只能制作不大于一个篮球的物品，主要用来制作手机壳和首饰等小物件，但它们愈来愈受欢迎，特别是受到设计师的喜爱。
There is no doubt that the cost of both industrial and consumer 3D printers will continue to fall. The machines will also become more efficient, in terms of speed, precision and versatility. Those innovations will be accompanied by similarly striking improvements in the range and quality of the materials suitable for use in 3D printing, thereby enhancing its creative possibilities.
毫无疑问，工业生产和消费者使用的3D打印机成本都将持续下降。而3D打印机的速度、准确性和用途则在提升。伴随着这些创新，适用于3D打印的产品范围必将不断扩展，质量也会大大提升，为设计师增添更多创作上的可能性。
One of my favorite examples of 3D printing so far is Collagene, a series of bespoke masks developed by Filippo Nassetti and Alessandro Zomparelli, two young Italian designers who work together as Do the Mutation. They have designed software to create individual masks based on scans of human faces made by games console sensors. The masks are 3D printed by CRP in Windform, a polyamide-based material, in the shape of eerily surreal tangles of “twigs,” which are so intricate that they have the futuristic air of things that could only have been made by advanced technology, and look significantly different to the products of traditional mass-manufacturing.
我最喜欢的3D作品之一名叫“胶原蛋白”(Collagene)，是一系列定制面具，由两位年轻的意大利艺术家菲里波·纳塞蒂(Filippo Nassetti)和亚历山大·佐帕莱利(Alessandro Zomparelli)开发生产，两人以“发生突变”(Do the Mutation)为名合作。他们设计出一种软件，可以由游戏控制传感器扫描人脸，并在此扫描基础上制作面具。这些由CRP 3D打印机使用“Windform”聚酰胺材料制作的面具，就像“树枝”一样有着奇异的、超现实的盘根错节，非常复杂，仿佛是使用先进技术制造、来自未来世界的物品，与传统大规模生产出来的物品截然不同。
The same structurally complex, otherworldly aesthetic will become increasingly familiar as designers take advantage of developments in digital production to realize hitherto unattainable shapes in complex geometries.
设计师们愈来愈多地利用数码技术的进步来制作有着复杂几何结构、形状难以琢磨的物品，因此这种结构复杂，仿佛来自其他世界的美学追求也会愈来愈常见。
Another change is that rather than expecting to control the final form of their work, designers will have to devise ways of enabling other people to personalize it, both for stylistic and functional reasons. Amputees will eventually use 3D printing to make artificial limbs that fit perfectly, and people with arthritis may benefit from adjusting the handles of cooking utensils to make them easier to grip.
3D打印技术带来的另一个变化是，设计师不再追求控制自己产品的最终形态，而是要设计出能让他人将最终产品个性化的方法。这既有风格方面的原因，也有功能方面的原因。被截肢者最终可以使用3D打印技术，制造完全适合自己的义肢，患有关节炎的人们也可以利用这一技术，自行调节厨具手柄，方便他们拿取。
As well as creating new products, 3D printing will be used to produce accurate replicas of the lost or damaged components of existing ones. Designers will need to allow for the possibility of replacing individual parts when devising the original objects. Another challenge will be to design new business models to tap into the growing popularity of repairs.
3D打印机不仅能创造新物品，也可以用来为现存物件制作遗失或损毁元件的复制品。因此设计原始物品时，设计师需要考虑单独部件的可替换性。同时维修的需求将不断增加，为这一需求设计新的商业模式也是一项新挑战。
Not only does digital production promise to transform the relationship of designers with the people who use their work, it will do the same to their rapport with manufacturers. Eventually, there could be a sophisticated 3D printing facility in every village and town, where local people can source customized products or repair existing ones, as their ancestors did at nearby blacksmith’s forges. Doubtless, tech savvy entrepreneurs are already planning to open them.
数码生产不仅承诺改变设计师与用户之间的关系，也会改变设计师与生产者之间的合作。最终，3D打印设备可能会遍布所有村镇，当地居民可以自行获取定制产品，或自行维修现有产品，就像他们的祖先要求铁匠为他们锻造产品那样。毫无疑问，掌握技术经验的企业已在着手准备。
In this scenario, designers will be less dependent on finding manufacturers that are willing to realize their ideas; they will be able to produce their own prototypes and to become increasingly entrepreneurial in selling their work directly to consumers. “Design Beyond Production,” an exhibition running through Aug. 18 at the Z33 design center in the Belgian city of Hasselt, is exploring that phenomenon.
如果这种设想成真，设计师们将不再那么依赖于寻找赏识自己创意的生产者；他们可以制造自己产品的原型，像创业者那样直接把自己的产品销售给消费者。8月18日，比利时哈瑟尔特市的Z33设计中心将举办名为“超越生产的设计”展览，届时将探讨这一现象。
Not that 3D printing is the only dazzling technology for designers to wrestle with, because 4D technology is on its way, thanks to scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who are experimenting with new materials that can adapt their shape and other qualities to suit their surroundings. Will 5D be next?
3D打印并不是唯一一项设计师们需要努力掌握的惊人科技，因为4D技术已经快要到来，麻省理工的科学家们正在试验可以根据环境改变形状和其他特征的新材料。接下来呢，会是5D技术吗？