WASHINGTON — In the movie “In the Line of Fire,” a deranged killer smuggles a homemade gun past the Secret Service and tries, unsuccessfully, to shoot the president.
华盛顿——在电影《火线狙击》(In the Line of Fire)中，一个神经错乱的杀手偷偷携带自制手枪，躲过特勤人员的检查，想要击杀总统，但最终失败了。
That situation might have seemed far-fetched when the film, which starred Clint Eastwood as the agent who dives in front of the assassin’s bullet, came out in 1993. But today, police officials and members of Congress fear that if a law known as the Undetectable Firearms Act is not renewed and updated when it expires on Dec. 9, firearms that can slip past metal detectors and X-ray machines will become a law enforcement problem across the country.
当这部电影于1993年上映时，这种情节似乎稍显牵强，在片中扮演特工的克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)飞身去挡刺客的子弹。但是现在，警方和国会议员担心，如果《不可探测枪支法案》(Undetectable Firearms Act)于今年12月9日到期后得不到有效期的延长和更新，那些能够通过金属探测器和X光机的轻武器将会给全国各地的执法部门带来问题。
It is not an idle concern: Homemade plastic guns are a reality, made possible by the proliferation of 3-D printing technology that was only getting started when the law was first passed by Congress and signed by President Ronald Reagan in 1988.
这不是杞人忧天：随着3-D打印技术的流行，家中自制塑料手枪已经成为现实。而在1988年的《不可探测枪支法案》第一次获得国会通过，并得到罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)总统的签署时，这项技术才刚刚兴起。
“They are so frightening because they render most standard detection useless,” said Tim Murphy, a former deputy director of the F.B.I.
蒂姆·墨菲(Tim Murphy)是美国联邦调查局前副局长，他说，“人们很害怕，因为3-D技术让大多数标准探测手段都失效了。”
The expiring law bans guns that can pass unnoticed through a metal detector, and has been renewed twice in the 25 years since it was first enacted. But with the expiration date a little more than a week away, reauthorizing it has been caught up in a political standoff that has thwarted other recent attempts to enact gun safety legislation.
即将过期的法案对那些能够通过金属探测器而不被人发现的枪支施加了禁令，从实施起25年来已经获得过两次延期。但这次距离过期只剩下一个礼拜多一点的时间，对该法案的重新授权却遭遇到一场政治僵局，而这场僵局已在近期阻碍了其他通过枪支安全法案的努力。
“We’re on the clock, and as we know, this Congress doesn’t deal well with deadlines,” said Dan Gross, president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence.
丹·格罗斯(Tim Murphy)是布雷迪防止枪支暴力中心(Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence)的主任，他说，“我们的时间不多了，因为我们知道，国会在截止日前总是掉链子。”
For now, the extension is delayed as lawmakers fight over whether to simply extend the law or amend it to include new provisions aimed specifically at 3-D printed weapons.
现在，延期事宜遭遇搁置，因为议员们还在争执，究竟是简单地延续这部法案呢，还是对其修订，加入特别针对3-D打印武器的新条款。
Shortly before the Senate broke for its Thanksgiving recess, it set aside a measure to extend the law for a year because of objections by Republicans. Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, said he was concerned not about extending the law as written but about senators who support gun safety measures using the law as a backdoor way of attaching more provisions when it expires again.
在感恩节休假前不久，因为共和党人的反对，参议院刚刚搁置了一项将该法案延续一年的动议。阿拉巴马州共和党参议员杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)表示，他担心的不是按照现状将法案延续，而是那些支持枪支安全措施的参议员把这项法案当做后门，在其下次失效时增加更多的新条款。
“They’re considering altering it, putting more language in it,” Mr. Sessions said. “There’s concern that it may be altered in a way that would be problematic.”
塞申斯说，“他们正在考虑修订这项法案，增加更多内容。有人担心，按他们的方式修改，之后可能会出现各种问题。”
The House is expected to approve a 10-year extension of the law when it returns next week. Democrats, led by Representative Steve Israel of New York, want to include the 3-D-printed weapons provision, but Republicans have agreed only to consider renewing the law as it is now.
下周，当该法案回到众议院时，预计众议院会同意将该法案延长十年。纽约州众议员史蒂夫·伊斯雷尔(Steve Israel)带领的民主党人希望能够增加3-D打印武器的条款，但是共和党人仅同意考虑按照该法案的现状对其延期。
“It’s hard to believe that anyone would oppose a piece of legislation like this, so tied into, so connected with our safety,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, one of the senators leading the effort to extend the law. “In a world of terrorism, to say that we would make legal guns that can pass through metal detectors so people can slip them through airports, stadiums, schools?”
纽约州民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)是带头支持对法案延期的参议员之一，他说，“很难相信居然有人会反对像这样的一项法案，这跟我们的安全紧密联系，息息相关。在这个充斥着恐怖主义的世界里，让那些能够通过金属探测器的枪支合法化，就意味着有人可以将它们偷偷携带进入机场，体育馆和学校？”
The National Rifle Association, whose position will carry significant weight with many in Congress, has not publicly signaled where it stands. A spokesman for the N.R.A. did not respond to several requests for comment.
美国步枪协会(The National Rifle Association)的立场会极大地影响许多国会议员的态度，但是该协会并没有明确表态。协会的发言人未对多次的置评请求作出回应。
But Gun Owners of America, a smaller and more vocal gun rights group, said that both the extension of the current law and the new provisions would be unnecessary because 3-D printing technology was still so new and not widely available.
美国枪支拥有者协会(Gun Owners of America)是一家规模较小，但对持枪权利更为敢言的团体。该协会表示，不论是对当前的法案延期，还是加入新的内容，都不必要，因为3-D打印技术仍然很新，并没有得到广泛应用。
“They’re not going to be in Kinkos,” said Larry Pratt, the group’s executive director. “And at the moment, they can’t fire that many rounds. It’s just not something that we’re going to be dealing with anytime soon.”
该团体执行董事拉里·普拉特(Larry Pratt)表示，“金考(Kinkos)店里可没有这些东西。就现在来说，这些枪支也打不了几枪。这不是我们很快需要解决的问题。”
Those who argue that these guns are not a true safety threat often point to the cost of 3-D printers, which can be as expensive as some automobiles. But as the technology becomes less expensive and accessible, concern is growing.
有人声称这些枪支不会真正威胁安全，他们经常提出的理由是3-D打印机价格昂贵，有的甚至跟汽车一样贵。但是随着这项技术的费用降低并得到普及，人们的担忧正在增加。
To technically comply with the current law, manufacturers of 3-D-printed guns only have to make their firearms detectable to security screeners in some way, usually by including some form of metal, which can be nonfunctional and easily removable.
想要从技术上遵守现行法律，3-D打印枪支的制造商只需要通过某种方式，使得安全检测仪器能够检测出他们生产的武器即可，一般来说他们会加入某种金属，但是这些金属都没有功能性，能够被轻易去除。
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives recently assembled one such gun using designs downloaded from Defense Distributed, a group based in Texas that describes itself as dedicated to defending “the civil liberty of popular access to arms as guaranteed by the United States Constitution.”
烟酒枪支及爆炸物管理局(Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives)最近就组装了这样一支枪。他们从位于德克萨斯州的分布式防御组织(Defense Distributed)那里下载了枪支设计图纸。这个组织自称，旨在保护“人们获得武器的公民自由，这一自由受到美国宪法的保障。”
To close the loophole in the current law, the changes proposed by Democrats would require that an essential, nondetachable piece of the gun be made of enough metal to be picked up in a security screening.
为了弥补现行法律中的漏洞，民主党人提出的修改意见要求，枪支中某个不能分离的核心部件必须用金属制成，并足以被安全监测仪器探测出来。
But some officials say the real challenge is to find a way to detect plastic weapons, and want more money devoted to that.
但是有的官员表示，真正的挑战在于，如何找到侦测塑料武器的方法，他们希望能够对此投入更多资金。
“The law is not the story — someone that wants to do harm is not going to abide by the law,” said Mr. Murphy, the former F.B.I. official. “It may stop large-scale production, but won’t stop the lone wolf or adversary. Someone needs to be thinking bigger.”
前联邦调查局官员墨菲说，“问题不在法律本身——如果有人想要搞破坏，他就不准备遵守法律了。法律可能会阻止大规模的生产，但是却阻止不了独狼或者敌人。他们必须要从大局上想问题。”
After attempts by terrorists to bring down airliners over the past decade, the government and security companies made some strides in detecting plastic explosives. But far less time and money were devoted to detecting plastic weapons, because they were not seen as a major threat.
过去十年里，因为恐怖分子曾试图制造客机坠落事件，政府和安全公司在侦测塑料爆炸物方面取得了一些进展。但是投入塑料武器侦测领域的时间和经费却少得多，因为人们不将其视为一项主要威胁。
While body scanners are considered a reliable way to detect a weapon on a person’s body, they are expensive and difficult to transport and have raised concerns about privacy.
虽然全身扫描仪被认为是探测人身上是否藏有武器的可靠手段，但是这些仪器非常昂贵，难以运输，并且引发了人们对于隐私问题的担忧。
“They’re so good they can see a credit card in your pocket,” said a senior law enforcement official who has overseen the use of such machines. “But people don’t like them. And people don’t like pat-downs.”
一位负责管理这些机器的使用的执法部门高级官员表示，“这些机器很好用，甚至能够识别口袋里面的一张信用卡，但是人们不喜欢它们。人们也不喜欢被搜身。”