The search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 is over, assigned, for now, to the same corner of history as the hunt for Amelia Earhart: a cold case. An unsolved mystery.
搜寻马来西亚航空370号航班的行动已结束，现在和搜寻阿梅莉亚·埃尔哈特(Amelia Earhart)的行动一样，被归入了历史的一个角落：悬案。未解之谜。
The nearly three-year-long effort to find the missing jet cost $160 million, the largest and most expensive search in aviation history. For the investigators who scoured 46,000 square miles the Indian Ocean seabed, there will be no answers. For the families of the 239 victims, there will be no closure.
搜寻这架失踪飞机的努力持续了近三年，花费1.6亿美元，是航空史上规模最大、代价最高的搜寻行动。调查人员搜索了印度洋上4.6万平方英里的海域，结果没有答案。而对239名遇难者的家属来说，这件事情并未完结。
“It is incomprehensible that they would give up right now,” said Grace Nathan, 28, whose mother, Anne Daisy, was on the flight. “I can’t imagine living the rest of my life accepting that people just disappeared into thin air,” Ms. Nathan said after learning that the search had been stopped.
“他们现在就放弃，实在不可思议，”28岁的格蕾丝·内森(Grace Nathan)说，她的母亲安妮·黛西(Anne Daisy)乘坐了那班飞机。“我无法想象自己这样度过余生，无法接受人可以就这样消失得无影无踪，”在得知搜索行动已经停止后，内森这样说道。
For all the technical questions asked during the search — Why did the plane go down? And where? — ending it raises a host of ethical questions: Do countries have an obligation to keep looking? How much should they spend? Is the search for a missing plane any different from the search for missing individuals?
相对于搜寻期间提出的众多技术问题——为什么飞机会坠落？是在哪里坠落？——停止搜索将引发的是一些伦理问题：这些国家有义务继续搜寻吗？他们该为此花多少费用？搜寻一架消失的飞机与搜寻失踪的个体有什么区别吗？
Flight 370 disappeared on the way from Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, to Beijing on March 8, 2014. Investigators determined that the plane had veered off course and flown south for several hours, for reasons unknown.
370航班是在2014年3月8日从马来西亚首都吉隆坡起飞，前往北京的途中消失的。调查人员查明，这架飞机偏离了航道，向南飞行了几个小时，其原因至今不明。
On Tuesday, the governments of China, Malaysia and Australia, which together have conducted the search for the missing plane, said experts last year concluded that the plane had crashed within a vast area of the Indian Ocean north of the search zone but that further efforts to find it would be prohibitively expensive. The governments said they would re-open the investigation only if credible evidence came to light of the location of the plane, a Boeing 777.
周二，联合进行这次搜寻行动的中国、马来西亚和澳大利亚政府表示，专家们去年得出结论，称这家飞机是在印度洋上一片巨大的海域内坠落，它位于搜寻区域的北部，但要进行进一步的搜索，费用将是难以承受的。政府表示，如果有任何关于这架波音777飞机所在地点的可信证据出现，它们会重启调查。
Their announcement has pitted victims’ relatives against the leaders of their countries, who said continuing the search was not worth the expense.
政府的声明让受害人的家属与他们国家的领导层站在了对立面，后者表示持续搜寻费用太高，不值得。
“The underwater search for MH370 has been suspended. The decision to suspend the underwater search has not been taken lightly nor without sadness,” the countries said in a joint statement released on Tuesday.
“在水下搜寻MH370航班的努力已经暂停。停止水下搜寻不是草率的决定，我们也为此感到悲伤，”这些国家在周二发布的联合声明中表示。
Investigators are obligated to continue the search, family members said, to bring emotional closure, to provide the only concrete evidence to explain what felled the plane and to prevent similar accidents.
遇难者家属表示，调查人员有义务继续搜寻，以便在情绪上有所交代，并提供唯一确凿的证据，解释是什么导致这架飞机坠落，以防类似事故再此发生。
“It extends beyond me and my family,” said Ms. Nathan, a member of Voice370, a group that represents relatives and friends of those aboard. “Of course we would like to know what happened. But millions of people fly every day on Boeing aircraft, and the flying public has the right to know what happened,” she said.
“这关系到的不只是我和我的家人，”内森说，她是代表机上人员亲友利益的团体“370之声”(Voice370)的一名成员。“我们当然想知道发生了什么。但每天有数百万人乘坐波音飞机飞行，这些公众有权知道是怎么回事。”
Experts said little new information would be learned even if the plane were discovered, although the mystery still vexes them.
专家表示，尽管这个谜团依然困扰他们，但即便找到这架飞机，也很难从中得到什么新的信息。
The Boeing 777 “enjoys a phenomenal safety record,” said Capt. John M. Cox, a former airline pilot and the chief executive of Safety Operating Systems, an aviation consultancy based in Washington. “We now have an open question about the safety of one airplane. That is a major issue and one that will remain open, and no one wants that.”
波音777“拥有出众的安全记录，”约翰·M·考克斯(John M. Cox)机长说。他之前是一名飞行员，现为华盛顿一家航空顾问公司安全运行系统(Safety Operating Systems)的首席执行官。“现在我们对一架飞机的安全有了一个未解决的疑问。这是个大问题，而且会持续无法解决，这是谁也不想看到的。”
Captain Cox argued that investigators should have completed the search of an additional 10,000-square-mile area that experts identified in December as the possible crash zone, but that ultimately they would have to conclude the search at some point, however disappointing. “We’re not enhancing safety, just by searching,” he said.
考克斯认为，调查人员应该完成对另外1万平方英里海域的搜索，专家在12月认定那有可能是飞机坠毁的区域，但最终他们将不得不在某个时候结束搜寻工作，不管这让人感到多么沮丧。“仅仅通过搜寻，我们并不能提升安全性，”他说。
Another aviation expert made a similar technical argument for ending the search now.
对于现在停止搜索，另一位航空专家发出了类似的技术观点。
“No matter what,” said the expert, Prof. R. John Hansman Jr., director of the International Center for Air Transportation at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “it’s going to remain a mystery. You’re not going to get closure.”
“不管怎么样，”麻省理工学院航空运输国际中心(International Center for Air Transportation at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology)主任R·约翰·汉斯曼(R. John Hansman)教授说，“它都会一直是个谜。不会让你释怀。”
Professor Hansman said the existing evidence suggested that mechanical failure did not lead to the crash but that the pilot was most likely responsible. Even if investigators were to find the wreckage and recover the cockpit voice recorder, it would prove useless, he said.
汉斯曼表示，现有的证据显示，并非技术上的故障导致飞机坠落，而很有可能是飞行员的责任。他说即便调查人员找到飞机残骸，恢复驾驶舱内的录音，也会证明没什么用。
The plane, he said, remained aloft for five hours on a consistent trajectory until its fuel was exhausted. But the recorder includes only five hours of tape, and “what we would have gotten is five hours of silence.” The data recorder, he said, would also be useless because “the plane flew for hours without a systemic problem.”
他表示，这架飞机沿着一道连续的轨迹在高空飞行了五个小时，直到燃料耗尽。而磁带只能记录五个小时的声音，“我们得到将只是五个小时的无声”。他还提到，数据记录器也不会有什么用，因为“飞机在几个小时的飞行中没有什么系统问题。”
Beyond the technical arguments for ending the search are the philosophical ones.
围绕结束搜寻行动，除了产生技术性的争论，还有哲学上的讨论。
Given that no living passengers can still be found, said Peter Singer, an ethics professor at Princeton University, resources should be reallocated to help the most people.
普林斯顿大学伦理学教授彼得·辛格(Peter Singer)表示，考虑到至今没有找到一名生还的乘客，资源应该被用于帮助大多数人。
“One hundred and fifty million dollars was already far too much to spend on the search for the missing plane, so calling off the search now is the right decision,” Professor Singer said.
“对于搜寻失踪客机而言，1.5亿美元的费用已经远远超标了，所以现在停止搜索是正确的决定，”辛格说。
“It is estimated that by donating to the Against Malaria Foundation so that it can distribute more bed nets, it is possible to save a life for approximately $3,000,” he said. “If that is accurate, then the money spent on the search could have saved 50,000 lives. Would anyone think that finding the plane is more important than that?”
“据估计，捐钱给抗疟疾基金会(Against Malaria Foundation)用于分发更多蚊帐，就有可能以大约3000美元的成本拯救一个生命，”他说。“如果这个数字是准确的，那么用于搜寻这架飞机的钱本可以拯救5万个生命。会有人觉得找到那架飞机比这更重要的吗？”
But the math to end the search has to be driven by more than just money, said Msgr. Anthony Randazzo, an auxiliary bishop in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Sydney, Australia.
但澳大利亚罗马天主教悉尼大主教辖区的辅理主教安东尼·兰达佐(Msgr. Anthony Randazzo)表示，结束搜寻的理由不能仅仅是出于资金考量。
“This is not a callous dismissal of the fact that we can’t find them, and there is no intention to disregard the individuals so we can make our administration or our paperwork more streamlined. It is a recognition of the limitations of our ability to be able to locate people,” he said.
“这不是漠视我们无法找到他们的事实，也不意味着为提高政府和文书工作的效率而忽视个体的利益。这是承认我们找人的能力只有这么多，”他说。
“That is a very important thing,” Monsignor Randazzo said. “I have not heard that this search has been halted because nobody cares anymore. In fact, it is the complete opposite. It is an admission of our limitations.”
“这是非常重要的，”兰达佐说。“我没有听说这次搜索行动是因为不再有人关心而停止。事实上，情况正好相反。这是承认我们已经尽力了。”