SEOUL, South Korea — As the White House prepared to brief members of the Senate on North Korea on Wednesday, female activists from more than 40 countries, including North and South Korea, urged President Trump to defuse military tensions and start negotiating for peace to prevent war from erupting on the Korean Peninsula.
韩国首尔——白宫周三将向参议院通报朝鲜的情况，包括朝鲜和韩国在内的40多个国家的女性活动人士敦促特朗普总统采取行动缓和紧张的军事局势，开始和平谈判，防止朝鲜半岛爆发战争。
They said they feared that the rapidly escalating tensions on the peninsula, if left unchecked, could engulf the region in nuclear war.
她们表示担心半岛紧张局势迅速升级，如果不加以控制，很可能会让该地区陷入核战争。
“We are united by our belief that diplomacy is the only way to resolve the nuclear crisis and threat of war now facing the Korean Peninsula,” said their letter to Mr. Trump, dated Wednesday. “Peace is the most powerful deterrent of all.”
“外交是解决朝鲜半岛现在面临的核危机和威胁的唯一途径，对这一点的笃信把我们团结在一起。”她们在周三给特朗普的信中写道。“和平是所有威慑力中最大的一个。”
A copy of the letter, signed by hundreds of female leaders, was made available in advance. It was also being sent to several senators who will be visiting the White House for the briefing on Wednesday, said Christine Ahn, international coordinator for Women Cross DMZ, a group of female peace activists that helped organize the letter campaign.
数以百计的女性领导人在这封信上签了名，它的副本提前发布了出来。女性和平活动组织“女性穿越非军事区”(Women Cross DMZ) 帮助组织了这封信的撰写和签名工作，其国际协调员克里斯汀·安(Christine Ahn)说，这封信也发送到了几位将要前往白宫的参议员那里。
On Wednesday, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis are scheduled to brief the entire Senate at the White House on North Korea. The briefing will also include Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, and Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
周三，国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)和国防部长詹姆斯·马蒂斯(James Mattis)将在白宫向参议院全体成员通报朝鲜情况。国家情报局局长丹·科茨(Dan Coats)和参谋长联席会议主席小约瑟夫·F·邓福德(Joseph F. Dunford Jr.)也将参会。
The briefing comes as the United States and its allies South Korea and Japan step up their military readiness amid signs the North is getting ready to test a nuclear device despite warnings by the United States and others not to do so.
这个通报会的举行，是在有迹象表明朝鲜罔顾美国和其他国家警告，正在准备进行核试验，同时美国及其盟国韩国、日本在加紧进行军事准备。
“President Trump could demonstrate his art of deal making by advancing what will and has only ever worked: diplomacy and engagement,” Ms. Ahn said. “Talks with Pyongyang would be a real benchmark of success in his first 100 days.”
安说：“特朗普可以展示他的交易之道，推动唯一行之有效的做法：外交和互动。与平壤的会谈将是他执政前100天成功的真正标准。”
Ms. Ahn said the female peace activists prepared the letter campaign as “our own Scud missile” to stop what her group called a dangerous escalation of tensions. In the past weeks, Washington has vowed to stop the North’s advancing nuclear and missile programs, using military options if it has to, and moved the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson to Korean waters. The North has threatened its own pre-emptive strikes, warning of a nuclear war and conducting a series of missile tests.
安表示，女性和平活动人士将这封信作为“我们自己的飞毛腿导弹”，阻止该组织所说的“紧张局势的危险升级”。在过去几周里，华盛顿已经誓言要阻止朝鲜推行的核计划及导弹计划，必要的时候会使用军事方案，并将卡尔·文森号航空母舰派遣到韩国水域。朝鲜威胁说要进行先发制人的打击，警告会开展核战争，并进行一系列的导弹试验。
The letter to Mr. Trump was also signed by the North’s Socialist Women’s Union. This was significant, Ms. Ahn said, because like other organizations in the North, it would not act independently of the wishes of the central government in Pyongyang.
朝鲜社会主义妇女联盟(Socialist Women’s Union)也在这封致特朗普的信上签了名。安说，这很重要，因为像朝鲜的其他组织一样，它也不会独立于平壤中央政府的愿望之外。
“The only so-called communication between Pyongyang and Washington is the threat of military force in the form of B-1 bombers, nuclear aircraft carriers, missiles and nuclear tests,” Kozue Akibayashi, the international president of the Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom, was quoted as saying in a news release from Women Cross DMZ.
“女性穿越非军事区”在一篇新闻稿中引用国际妇女争取和平自由联盟(Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom)主席秋林梢（Kozue Akibayashi，音）的话说：“平壤与华盛顿之间唯一所谓的交流就是以B-1轰炸机、核动力航母、导弹和核试验的形式出现的军事力量威胁。”
“This dangerous situation threatens everyone in the region.”
“这个危险的局势威胁着该地区的每个人。”
Ewa Eriksson Fortier, a Swedish humanitarian aid worker with extensive experience in North Korea, expressed concern that Mr. Trump may encourage more bilateral sanctions against North Korea, including restricting its supply of oil.
瑞典人道主义援助工作者埃瓦·埃里克森·费尔德(Ewa Eriksson Fortier)在朝鲜拥有丰富的工作经验，对于特朗普可能鼓励对朝鲜进行更多的双边制裁，包括限制石油供应，她表示了担忧。
“We must caution against targeted sanctions, which harm the most vulnerable,” said Ms. Fortier, who signed the letter. “Ordinary community people need fuel to run tractors and machinery for disaster and flood prevention, and to secure access to food, safe water and sanitation.”
费尔德也在这封信上签了名，她说：“我们必须警惕有针对性的制裁会危害到最弱势的群体。普通社区的民众需要燃料供应给用于防洪抗灾的拖拉机和机械设备，还需要获得安全的食物、饮水和卫生设施。”
The women urged Mr. Trump to negotiate a freeze of North Korea’s nuclear and long-range ballistic program in exchange for a United States security guarantee that would include suspending United States-South Korea military exercises — an approach favored by China.
这些女性敦促特朗普进行谈判，冻结朝鲜的核计划以及远程弹道导弹计划，以换取美国的安全保证，包括中止美韩军事演习——这也是中国青睐的一个做法。
But they also urged Mr. Trump to address the root cause of the North Korean crisis by negotiating a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War, whose guns fell silent in a cease-fire in 1953 that left the peninsula still technically at war.
但他们也敦促特朗普通过谈判达成和平条约，正式结束朝鲜战争，解决朝鲜危机的根本原因。这场战争在1953年停火，从理论上说，朝鲜半岛目前还处于战争状态。
“For more than 70 years, isolation, arms, troops and doomsday threats have been used to separate a once unified country,” the American feminist activist and author Gloria Steinem said in the news release. “Isn’t it time that leaders stop, recognize danger and listen?”
那篇新闻稿援引美国女权主义者、作家格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)的话说：“70多年来，隔离、武器、部队和末日威胁被用来分离一个曾经统一的国家。领导人现在是时候停下来，认识到危险，倾听其他人的说法了，不是吗？”
In May 2015, Women Cross DMZ organized a group of 30 female peace activists, including Ms. Steinem and two Nobel Prize laureates, to cross the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas to draw global attention to the need to bring peace on the divided peninsula.
2015年5月，为了引起全球关注在分裂的朝鲜半岛上实现和平的必要性，“女性穿越非军事区”安排斯泰纳姆和两位诺贝尔奖获得者在内的30名女性和平活动人士跨越了分隔朝韩的非军事区。