For a man who once weighed 980 pounds and had already lost 650 of them, the loss of 50 more — the amount that vanished after Paul Mason’s nine-and-a-half-hour operation last month — might not seem like a big deal.
对于一个曾重达980磅（约为445公斤），并已经减掉650磅（约为295公斤）的人来说，再减掉50磅好像根本不算什么。保罗·梅森(Paul Mason)就是这样，他上个月刚刚通过9个半小时的手术减掉了50磅（23公斤）。
But Mr. Mason, who at his heaviest was known informally as the world’s fattest man, had been all but crippled by those 50 pounds, loose skin that hung over his body like melted wax over a candlestick. And so its absence has made all the difference.
但是对于梅森——这个体重最重时被民间传为世界上最胖的人来说， 身上50磅松松垮垮的皮肤就像融化的烛蜡堪堪挂在烛台上一样，这50磅消失后，一切都不一样了。
It means he can get out of his wheelchair and go for a walk. It means he can take a shower standing up. It means that his knees no longer ache, that he can slip easily in and out of bed without feeling like he has anvils strapped to his thighs, that he has sensation in his feet, and that when he puts his pants on he does not have to contend with an apron of extra flesh flopping from his waist to his thighs.
现在的他可以甩掉轮椅独立行走；可以站着洗澡。现在的他膝盖不再疼痛；上下床时不再像大腿绑着铁砧一样；双脚也有了知觉；穿裤子时也不用再和从腰上耷拉到大腿的一圈肉做斗争。
“It seems a bit weird,” Mr. Mason said recently. “I’d got so used to maneuvering my excess skin out of the way.”
“感觉有点诡异，”梅森最近说道。“毕竟我已经习惯随时把我多余的皮肤想办法拨开了。”
It took a lot of planning and a great deal of good fortune for Mr. Mason, who is 54 and comes from Ipswich, England, to have the operation at all. Lenox Hill Hospital on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, where it was performed, waived all its fees. So did the four plastic surgeons who operated, and so did the general surgeon, the anesthesiologist and the nurses who took part.
来自英国伊普斯维奇(Ipswich)现年54岁的梅森做足了准备、花光了运气才终于完成了这项手术。进行手术的曼哈顿(Manhattan)上东区(Upper East Side)勒诺克斯山医院(Lenox Hill Hospital)免去了一切手术费用。同时，执刀的四名整形外科医生、普通外科医生、麻醉师和参加手术的护士都没收取任何费用。
Mr. Mason’s bills would probably have exceeded $250,000, said Dr. Jennifer Capla, the surgeon who led the team at Lenox Hill.
据勒诺克斯山医院领导这支手术队伍的医师珍妮弗·卡普拉(Jennifer Capla)说，梅森的账单大概会超出25万美元（约合155.2万元）。
It took Mr. Mason a long time to get as fat as he was, and it has taken him a long time to try to shed all that weight and find a life approaching normalcy. Bullied, sexually abused and unloved as a child, he said he dulled his feelings with more and more food. Eventually he got into bed and kept eating until he became too heavy to get out. Finally, spurred by a sympathetic therapist, he had gastric bypass surgery, in England, overhauled his diet and dropped to 350 pounds.
梅森经历了很长时间才变得这么胖，又花了很长时间瘦下来，过上正常人的生活。幼年时期遭遇的欺凌、性虐待、失宠让他依赖越来越多地进食来发泄情绪。结果他躺到床上，一直不停地吃，吃到胖得没法下床。最终，在一名同情他的临床医师的鼓励下，他在英国进行了胃分流手术，彻底改变了饮食，把体重减到了350磅。
This latest operation, in early May, was the culmination of two years of effort by Dr. Capla, a plastic surgeon in Manhattan who learned of Mr. Mason’s affliction when her mother, Judith Capla, also a doctor, saw news reports about him. Dr. Jennifer Capla specializes in loose-skin removal after extreme weight loss, but she had never operated on anyone whose weight loss was so extreme.
梅森的最近一次手术是在五月初完成的，这场手术是卡普拉医生两年努力的结晶。卡普拉医生是曼哈顿的整形医师，她的母亲，同样是医生的朱迪斯·卡普拉(Judith Capla)看到关于梅森的新闻后，把他的痛苦状况告诉了专攻极度减重后松弛皮肤切除问题的卡普拉医生。但卡普拉还从未接诊过像梅森这样减掉如此之多重量的病例。
It was a complex case, and not only because of the logistics or the simple fact that there was more of Mr. Mason to remove than there usually is for patients in his position. His excessive weight had left him with a host of medical issues, including a history of blood clots, and Dr. Capla brought in three other plastic surgeons to assist in the operation: Dr. Wojciech Dec from Lenox Hill, and Dr. J. Peter Rubin and Dr. Joseph Michaels, former colleagues in Pittsburgh and Maryland.
梅森的情况十分复杂，不仅因为他要比其他同类病人切除更多皮肤这一简单事实。他的超重还导致了一堆健康问题，包括血栓病史，所以卡普拉医生又邀请了三名整形医生来协助手术：勒诺克斯山的沃伊切赫·黛珂(Wojciech Dec)医生、在彼得堡(Pittsburgh)和马里兰(Maryland)时的同事彼得·鲁宾(Peter Rubin)和约瑟夫·迈克尔斯(Joseph Michaels)医生。
The biggest challenge was presented by the many blood vessels in the skin to be removed. There were hundreds, each about four times normal size, Dr. Capla said, and they had to be identified and then individually cauterized and tied or clipped, a process that took hours. “If you miss just one, he could bleed out,” she said.
整个手术最大的难点在于切除的皮肤内包含着血管。卡普拉医生说，这些皮肤内有数百条血管，直径是正常血管的四倍粗。每条血管都需要被仔细辨认，烧灼、结扎或者剪除，这一过程就需要数小时才能完成。“哪怕漏了一条血管没处理，他也可能失血过多，”她说。
It took the doctors more than four hours to remove the first piece of skin, from the area around Mr. Mason’s midsection, and there was a feeling of triumph as they finally cut it away and laid it out on a table. The anesthesiologist monitoring Mr. Mason’s vital signs said that when that piece was removed, his CVP, which measures how hard the heart has to work to pump blood, fell instantly.
从梅森腹部切除第一块皮肤花了足足四个多小时。皮肤终于被取下来放到桌子上的时候，医生们心里洋溢着一种胜利感。负责检测梅森重要体征的麻醉医师说，皮肤切除后，梅森的中心静脉压——显示心脏输送血液所需压力的指标——立即有所下降。
In the end, the surgeons excised about 25 pounds from Mr. Mason’s midsection and perhaps 25 to 30 from his legs, much of it concentrated in his right leg, which was so swollen with fluid that he was unable to walk more than a few steps. They went through about 140 suture packs, each representing about eight or nine sutures. “We’re talking about eight feet of incisions,” Dr. Capla said.
医生们共从梅森腹部切除了约25磅皮肤，从腿部切除了大概25-30磅皮肤。切除的腿部皮肤先前大部分都堆积在梅森的右腿，导致右腿严重积水肿胀，几乎寸步难行。手术总计用掉140包缝合线，每包八九根。“我们在说的可是长达8英尺（约合2.44米）的创口啊，”卡普拉医生说。
After he left the hospital, Mr. Mason recuperated for a few weeks in a Midtown Manhattan hotel room paid for by another benefactor, a businessman from Illinois.
梅森离开医院后，另一位来自伊利诺伊州的商人捐助他在曼哈顿中区的旅馆里恢复调养了几周。
The businessman, who did not want to be identified, told Mr. Mason that he was donating the money in honor of his late mother, who had also struggled with her weight, said Mr. Mason’s fiancée, Rebecca Mountain. (They met when she read about him online and got in touch with him through Facebook.) “His mom was really heavy and he felt a connection with what Paul was going through,” Ms. Mountain said.
这位不愿意透露姓名的商人告知了梅森他的捐款初衷——缅怀生前曾和体重斗争过的母亲，梅森的未婚妻瑞贝卡·蒙特恩(Rebecca Mountain)透露道。（她在网上读到梅森的故事后通过Facebook联系了他。）“那位母亲的体重也极重，商人对保罗正在经受的一切有所感触，”蒙特恩说。
Back at home now in Orange, Mass., where Mr. Mason has moved to be with Ms. Mountain, the couple still faces many obstacles.
如今梅森已经回到家乡马萨诸塞州的奥兰治市(Orange, Mass.)，并和蒙特恩住在了一起。然而这对眷侣面前的路途依旧坎坷。
Though her cat-furniture business is beginning to take off, Ms. Mountain said, she does all the work herself and she struggles to keep up with orders. Money is very tight, and there are issues surrounding Mr. Mason’s immigration status.
蒙特恩说，尽管她的猫家具事业正有所起色，但她要独立负担所有工作，疲于及时处理接到的订单。家里财政紧缺，同时梅森的移民身份也有些问题。
His visa is scheduled to run out in a few months. He and Ms. Mountain cannot get married and live together in the United States until she can prove to the authorities that she has the means to support him as well as herself, she said.
梅森的签证还有几个月就到期了。如果蒙特恩不能证明自己有能力同时养活他和自己，他们就不能在美国结婚生活，她解释道。
“Somehow or other he will find a way to stay, and then he can maybe take a part-time job in town,” she said.
“总有办法能留下的，到时候他大概可以在城里做份兼职吧，”她说。
“Stacking shelves, whatever I can do,” Mr. Mason said. “I don’t mind.”
“摆架子，只要是我能做的就行，”梅森说。“我不在意具体是什么工作。”
Down the line, he hopes to have at least one more operation, to remove the flesh that still hangs from his upper arms. But that is in the future. At the moment Mr. Mason is just adjusting to his new self, emerging into a different life; one with more possibility.
梅森希望将来至少能再进行一次手术，切除他耷拉在上臂的肉。但这些都是后话，现在的梅森还在适应全新的自己，步入完全不同的人生，感受新人生的万千可能。
He does not get as tired as he did just after the operation and is now walking his dog, Duke, in the garden every morning, something that was unthinkable before. He and Ms. Mountain have done some gardening, and are starting to make plans to grow vegetables and fruit.
梅森觉得和术后初期相比已经没那么累了。现在他每天早上在花园里遛他的狗，杜克(Duke)，这在以前想都不敢想。他和蒙特恩一起修建了花园，并筹划着种上蔬菜水果。
The other day, they went to the movies. It seems like a small thing, but it wasn’t.
前几天他们还一起去看了场电影。听上去没什么但实际上却很特别。
“I was able to sit in a cinema seat for the first time in 30 years and hold hands and cuddle, like couples do,” he said.
“这是我人生三十年来第一次能坐在电影院座位里，还能像情侣一样牵手拥抱，”他说。