A comet that spent the first 4.5 billion years of its existence in the farthest reaches of the solar system will almost graze the furnace of the sun on Thursday.
在太阳系最偏远的地方消磨了头45亿年的光景后，一颗彗星将于本周四与熔炉般的太阳擦身而过。
Comet ISON’s close approach — and its possible demise, from the sun’s heat and gravitational forces — will give scientists an unprecedented look at the ingredients that came together to form the planets.
ISON彗星与太阳的亲密接触，以及太阳的热量与引力可能造成的解体事件，将给科学家们创造一个前所未有的机会，使他们一窥组成行星的成分。
“It’s a dinosaur bone of solar system formation,” said Carey M. Lisse, a senior research scientist at the Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins University, during a NASA news conference on Tuesday.
约翰·霍普金斯大学应用物理实验室(Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins University)的高级科学家凯里·M·利塞(Carey M. Lisse)在美国国家航空航天局(NASA)周二召开的新闻发布会上称，“它好比是太阳系形成时期留下的恐龙化石。”
If the comet survives — though many experts like Dr. Lisse think it will not — it could provide a bright and striking addition to the night sky in early December as it zooms near Earth on its way back out. The best times for viewing would be right before sunrise or right after sunset. Currently it is not readily visible because it is too close to the sun.
如果这颗彗星能存活下来——尽管利塞博士等众多专家认为不能——它就会在回家的路上靠近地球，或许能为12月初的夜空增添一缕耀眼而迷人的光亮。届时，最佳观测时间将是几近破晓与刚刚日落的时候。它现在太接近太阳，不易被看到。
In recent years, astronomers have spotted many sun-grazing comets, but this one is different. Named for the International Scientific Optical Network in Russia, which discovered it in September 2012, it appears to have originated in the Oort Cloud, a sphere of debris about a light-year from the sun. Most of the earlier sun grazers appear to be pieces from a larger comet that looped around the sun many times.
近年来，天文学家们观测到了许多掠日彗星，不过这一颗与众不同。2012年9月，位于俄罗斯的国际科学光学监测网(International Scientific Optical Network)发现了这颗彗星，并用其缩写命名为ISON。它似乎发源于奥尔特星云(Oort Cloud)，也就是距离太阳约1光年的彗星云团。多数之前的掠日彗星似乎都是环绕太阳多次的一颗大彗星的碎片。
ISON was probably dislodged a few million years ago by the gravitational nudge of a passing star, sending it on a trajectory to the inner solar system for the first time and quite possibly the last.
ISON很可能是在数百万年前因一颗经过恒星的引力分裂出来的，从而第一次被推到了内太阳系的轨道上，不过这也相当有可能是它的最后一次。
“And we’re going to watch it bake and boil,” Dr. Lisse said.
“我们将看到它被烤得冒烟，”利塞博士说。
NASA’s fleet of spacecraft, including the Hubble Space Telescope and the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, have been taking pictures as the comet entered the inner solar system. “This particular comet is of extreme interest to us,” said James L. Green, the director of planetary science at NASA.
随着ISON进入内太阳系，NASA的各个航天器，包括哈勃太空望远镜(Hubble Space Telescope)和火星侦测轨道飞行器(Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter)开始持续拍照。NASA的行星科学主管詹姆斯·L·格林(James L. Green)说，“这颗彗星引发了我们极大的兴趣。”
Few comets are discovered so far out, and some scientists at first thought ISON was several miles in diameter and would become the “Comet of the Century,” rivaling the brightness of a full moon.
没几颗彗星曾在那么远的位置被发现，而且一些科学家起初以为，ISON的直径有几英里，可能成为“世纪彗星”，亮度堪比满月。
But as the comet passed Mars, the NASA orbiter took pictures showing that it was three-quarters of a mile wide at most, smaller than most comets.
不过，随着ISON经过火星，NASA的飞行器拍摄的照片显示，它的直径至多有四分之三英里（约合1.2公里），比多数彗星都小。
Because ISON was discovered so far away, astronomers had plenty of time to plan their observations. Measurements by NASA’s Spitzer Space Telescope, which takes infrared photographs, showed a large envelope of carbon dioxide around the nucleus. “It is looking like carbon dioxide may be a very fundamental molecule in that early solar system rather than carbon monoxide,” Dr. Lisse said.
由于ISON在很远的地方就被发现了，天文学家们有大量时间来为观测做规划。NASA的斯皮策太空望远镜(Spitzer Space Telescope)可以拍摄红外照片。它的测量显示，ISON彗核周围包裹着大量的二氧化碳。“看起来像是，二氧化碳或许是太阳系早期很基本的一种分子，而不是一氧化碳，”利塞博士说。
As ISON approaches the sun, the motions of its tail reveal the usually invisible movements in the solar wind, the torrent of particles continually ejected by the sun.
随着ISON迫近太阳，彗尾的行为揭示出通常不可见的太阳风的运动。太阳风是太阳持续喷射出的粒子流。
In recent days, the comet has behaved erratically, brightening and dimming; that has led to speculation that it has already fallen apart. “We just don’t know if it’s in one piece or not,” said Karl Battams, an astrophysicist at the Naval Research Laboratory.
最近几天，ISON的表现得不太稳定，时明时暗。这让人们猜想，它已经分裂了。“我们的确不知道它是否还是一整块，”美国海军研究实验室(Naval Research Laboratory)的天文物理学家卡尔·巴塔姆斯(Karl Battams)说。
Even falling apart could be valuable. Dr. Lisse said scientists understood how fine dust particles conglomerated into larger particles the size of BBs and marbles, and they know how comet-size objects can combine into planets. But they have not figured out how the BB- and marble-size objects combine into comets.
就算是分崩离析，也可能很有帮助。利塞博士称，科学家们知道细尘颗粒物如何聚集成BB弹和弹珠大小的较大颗粒物，他们也知道彗星大小的天体如何构成行星。可是，他们还没搞清楚BB弹和弹珠大小的物质如何变成彗星。
“When the BBs and the marbles hit each other, they fall apart,” Dr. Lisse said. By looking at the process in reverse, he went on, scientists can “see how it got put together” in the first place.
利塞博士说，“BB弹和弹珠相互碰撞的时候，会碎裂开来，”他继续解释，通过观察反向过程，科学家可以看到它们一开始“是怎么聚集到一起的”。