BRUSSELS — NATO’s top commander said on Wednesday that the 40,000 troops Russia has within striking distance of Ukraine are poised to attack on 12 hours’ notice and could accomplish their military objectives within three to five days.
布鲁塞尔——本周三，北约(NATO)最高指挥官声称，4万攻击距离可直达乌克兰的俄军部队已准备就绪，可以在接到命令后的12小时内发动攻击，而且能在三到五天内实现军事目标。
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia told Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on Monday that the Kremlin was beginning to withdraw troops from the border area near Ukraine.
本周一，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)曾对德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)表示，俄罗斯即将开始从临近乌克兰的边境地区撤军。
But the NATO commander, Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, said in an interview with The New York Times that so far only a single battalion, a force of 400 to 500 troops, is on the move and that NATO intelligence could not say whether it was actually being withdrawn.
然而，北约最高指挥官菲利普·M·布里德洛夫(Philip M. Breedlove)上将在接受《纽约时报》采访时说，迄今为止，只有一支400到500人的部队在行动，而北约情报机构无法断定，这支队伍是不是真的在撤退。
“What we can say now is that we do see a battalion size unit moving, but what we can’t confirm is that it is leaving the battlefield,” General Breedlove, of the United States Air Force, said. “Whether that movement is aft to a less belligerent configuration or returning to barracks, we do not see that.”
美国空军上将布里德洛夫说，“我们目前能肯定的是，确实看到一支营级规模的部队在行动，不过，我们无法确定他们是不是正在离开战场。我们看不出，他们的行动更像是远离交战地带的撤离，还是更像在返回军营。”
General Breedlove said that the Russian force that remains is a potent mix of warplanes, helicopter units, artillery, infantry and commandos with field hospitals and sufficient logistics to sustain an incursion into Ukraine.
布里德洛夫上将表示，原地驻扎的俄军战斗力相当强，是一支混合了战机、直升机部队、炮兵部队、步兵和特战部队的队伍，还配备了野战医院和足够的后勤给养，足以支持入侵乌克兰的行动。
“We believe that it can move within 12 hours,” he said. “Essentially the force is ready to go. We believe it could accomplish its objective between three to five days,” he said.
他说，“我们认为，俄军能在12小时展开行动。总体上说，他们已经做好作战准备。我们认为，他们能在三到五天内实现目标。”
General Breedlove said the Russian presence might be intended as a “coercive force” during the West’s talks with Russia about Ukraine’s future and as Ukraine prepares for a presidential election in late May.
布里德洛夫说，俄军陈兵边境，也许是为了在俄方和西方就俄乌未来展开谈判期间，以及乌克兰今年5月末举行总统大选时维持一种“高压力量”。
If the Kremlin decides to intervene militarily, General Breedlove added, the force could be used to establish a land link to Crimea, the peninsula in southern Ukraine that Russia annexed last month, so that it does not have to supply it by sea. The Russian force is also capable, he said, of carrying out a thrust to Odessa, moving to Transnistria, the Russian enclave in Moldova, or intervening in areas in eastern Ukraine.
布里德洛夫还说，如果决定出兵干预乌克兰，俄罗斯就可以利用这支军队打开一条通往克里米亚的陆上通道，不必再从海路运送部队。克里米亚是乌克兰南部半岛，上个月被俄罗斯吞并。他说，俄军还有能力挺进敖德萨，进入俄罗斯在摩尔多瓦的飞地德涅斯特河沿岸共和国，或者突入乌克兰东部地区。
“I think they have all the opportunities and they can make whatever decision they want,” General Breedlove added. “This is a very large, very well-equipped force to be called an exercise.”
布里德洛夫还说，“我认为，他们拥有各种机会，可以随心所欲地做决定。这是一支规模十分庞大、装备十分精良，可应声而动的军队。”
In January, the United States informed NATO allies that Russia had tested a ground-launched cruise missile, raising serious questions about Moscow’s compliance with its arms control obligations.
今年1月，美国通知北约各盟国，说俄罗斯测试了一枚陆基巡航导弹，此事引发了关于俄罗斯是否遵守军控义务的严重问题。
American officials have sought without success to resolve the issue with the Russians, and the Obama administration is reviewing whether to formally declare the test to be a violation of a 1987 treaty that bans medium-range missiles.
美国官员力图与俄方一同解决这一问题，但未能成功。奥巴马政府正在评估，是否正式宣布此次测试违反了1987年签订的禁止中程导弹条约。
While making it clear that he was not prejudging the outcome of that review, General Breedlove described the Russia missile test as a militarily significant development.
布里德洛夫明确表示，他不会提前判断评估结果，同时表示，俄方的导弹测试是一个重大军事事件。
“A weapon capability that violates the I.N.F., that is introduced into the greater European land mass is absolutely a tool that will have to be dealt with,” he said, using the initials of the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty.
他说，“这种违背INF、出现在欧洲大陆的武器能力绝对是我们必须处理的东西。”INF是《中程核力量条约》(Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty)的简称。
“I would not judge how the alliance will choose to react, but I would say they will have to consider what to do about it,” he said. “It can’t go unanswered.”
“我不会预判北约会选择如何应对，但我想说，他们必须考虑怎么处理这个问题，”他说。“置之不理是不行的。”
General Breedlove said that he did not know if the Russians had deployed the cruise missile, adding that this would be hard to determine since it resembles permitted short-range systems.
布里德洛夫上将表示，他不知道俄罗斯是否已经部署了这种巡航导弹，并且表示，这一点很难判断，因为它与条约允许的短程系统十分类似。
A former F-16 pilot, General Breedlove commanded Air Force units in Europe before he was named the NATO commander in the spring of 2013.
布里德洛夫上将曾是F-16飞行员，并曾负责指挥欧洲的空军部队，于2013年春被任命为北约司令。
Discussing the Russian intervention in Crimea, General Breedlove said that Russia used a military exercise to mask its invasion preparations. Once its intervention was underway, he said, Russian forces moved swiftly to cut telephone cables, jam communications and engage in cyberwarfare to isolate the Ukrainian military on the peninsula.
谈到俄罗斯入侵克里米亚的问题时，布里德洛夫表示，俄罗斯通过一次军事演习掩盖了入侵行动的准备工作。他说，开始入侵之后，俄罗斯军队迅速采取了行动，切断电话电缆，干扰通讯，发起网络战争，目的是孤立克里米亚半岛上的乌克兰军队。
“They disconnected the Ukrainian forces in Crimea from their command and control,” he said.
他说，“他们切断了克里米亚乌军与其指挥控制系统的联系。”
The bigger challenge the alliance faces, he said, is the Russian military’s use of “snap” exercises to rehearse its ability to assemble substantial combat power in a short period of time.
他表示，北约面临着一个更大的挑战，那就是俄罗斯军队会通过“临时”军演来训练在短时间内集结强大战斗力的能力。