Thanks to an ingratiating new study, we may finally be closer to answering that ever-popular question regarding our health and fitness: How little exercise can I get away with?
人们越来越多地提出这一问题：想要达成健康和健身目标，至少要做多少运动？幸而，最近的一项新研究的结果令人欢欣，我们终于快要得到上述问题的答案了。
The answer, it seems, may be four minutes.
这个最低量很可能是四分钟。
For the study, which was published last month in the journal PLoS One, researchers from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in Trondheim, Norway, and other institutions attempted to delineate the minimum amount of exercise required to develop appreciable endurance and health gains. They began by reconsidering their own past work, which had examined the effects of a relatively large dose of high-intensity intervals on various measures of health and fitness.
在这项上个月发表在《公共科学图书馆：综合》(PLoS One)杂志上的研究中，挪威特隆赫姆市挪威科技大学(Norwegian University of Science and Technology)和其他机构的研究人员试图对获得明显耐力和健康收益所需的最低运动量加以界定。在研究之初，他们重新审查了他们在以往进行的研究，这些研究工作探讨了较多的高强度间歇性锻炼对多项健康和体能指标的效应。
For those unfamiliar with the term, high-intensity intervals are just that: bursts of strenuous exercise lasting anywhere from 30 seconds to several minutes, interspersed with periods of rest. In recent years, a wealth of studies have established that sessions of high-intensity exercises can be as potent, physiologically, as much longer bouts of sustained endurance exercise.
在这里，我们需要对不熟悉该术语的人们解释一下：高强度间歇锻炼是指持续时间从30秒至数分钟，期间进行休息的多组短时间剧烈运动。近年来已有大量研究表明，从生理角度而言，多组高强度运动与长时间持续性耐力锻炼一样有效。
In a representative study from 2010, for instance, Canadian researchers showed that 10 one-minute intervals — essentially, 10 minutes of strenuous exercise braided with one-minute rest periods between — led to the same changes within muscle cells as about 90 minutes of moderate bike riding.
例如，在2010年的一项代表性研究中，加拿大的研究人员发现，10组一分钟间歇锻炼（实质上相当于被多个一分钟的休息期分隔开来的10分钟剧烈运动）所引起的肌肉细胞变化与约90分钟的适度骑行锻炼效果相同。
Similarly, the Norwegian scientists for some years have been studying the effects of intense intervals lasting for four minutes, performed at about 90 percent of each volunteer’s maximum heart rate and repeated four times, with a three-minute rest between each interval. The total meaningful exercise time in these sessions, then, is 16 minutes.
与上述研究类似，挪威科学家数年来研究了四分钟高强度间歇锻炼，每名志愿者以心率达到最大心率90%左右的强度运动四分钟，反复进行四次，每组运动间休息三分钟。这样，总有效锻炼时间为16分钟。
Which, the researchers thought, might just be too much.
研究人员认为，这段时间可能还是太长。
“One of the main reasons people give” for not exercising is that they don’t have time, says Arnt Erik Tjonna, a postdoctoral fellow at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, who led the study.
“人们不乐意进行锻炼的借口之一”就是他们没有时间，该研究的负责人、挪威科技大学的博士后研究员阿恩特·埃里克·提欧拿(Arnt Erik Tjonna)指出。
So he and his colleagues decided to slim down the regimen and determine whether a single, strenuous four-minute workout would effectively improve health and fitness.
因此，他和他的同事们决定给这个方案“瘦身”，并确定单次剧烈的四分钟锻炼能否有效地改善健康和体能状况。
To do so, they gathered 26 overweight and sedentary but otherwise healthy middle-aged men, determined their baseline endurance and cardiovascular and metabolic health, and randomly assigned them to one of two groups.
于是，他们召集了26名除了超重和久坐不动外其他方面均健康的中年男性，在测定了他们的基线耐力、心血管和代谢健康状况后，将其随机分为两组。
Half began a supervised exercise program that reiterated the Norwegian researchers’ former routine. After briefly warming up, these volunteers ran on a treadmill at 90 percent of their maximal heart rate — a tiring pace, says Dr. Tjonna, at which “you cannot talk in full sentences, but can use single words” — for four four-minute intervals, with three minutes of slow walking between, followed by a brief cool-down. The entire session was repeated three times a week for 10 weeks.
其中一半志愿者按照挪威研究人员的既往方案开始进行督导下的锻炼项目。在短暂的热身活动后，他们进行了四分钟间歇性锻炼：在跑步机上跑步，使心率保持在最大心率的90%。这种步速相当累人，提欧拿博士说，“你说不出完整的句子，但仍可以发出单个单词。”在每组跑步间进行三分钟的慢走，锻炼结束后则做个简单的放松练习。如此完成四组运动，每周锻炼三次，共持续10周。
The second group, however, completed only one four-minute strenuous run. They, too, exercised three times a week for 10 weeks.
而第二组志愿者在每次锻炼时只完成一组四分钟极速快跑。同样，他们也每周锻炼三次，持续10周。
At the end of the program, the men had increased their maximal oxygen uptake, or endurance capacity, by an average of 10 percent or more, with no significant differences in the gains between the two groups.
在该项目结束时，这些男性的最大摄氧量或耐力平均增加了至少10%，且两组的收益情况无显著差异。
Metabolic and cardiovascular health likewise had improved in both groups, with almost all of the men now displaying better blood sugar control and blood pressure profiles, whether they had exercised vigorously for 16 minutes per session, or four minutes per session, and despite the fact that few of the men had lost much body fat.
两组志愿者的代谢和心血管健康状况也获得了相似的改善。无论他们在每次锻炼中是剧烈运动16分钟也好，每次四分钟也好，现在几乎所有男性均呈现出较好的血糖控制和血压情况，只是，他们的体脂肪量均无大幅降低。
“This is not a weight-loss program,” Dr. Tjonna says. It is, instead, he says, “a suggestion for how people can make a kick-start for better fitness,” or maintain fitness already gained, when other obligations press on your time.
“这本来就不是一项减肥项目，”提欧拿博士说，而是为时间紧迫的人们“提供一些成就健康体态的入门建议”或保持现有的健身成果。
The results, Dr. Tjonna says, persuasively suggest that “getting in shape does not demand a big effort” in terms of time.
提欧拿博士认为，研究结果令人信服地表明，“获得良好的体型并不需要花费太多时间。”
That finding, though, inevitably raises the question of whether the bar could drop even lower. Could, for instance, a mere two minutes of strenuous training effectively improve health and fitness?
然而，面对这一发现，人们不禁想要追问：最低有效运动量有没有可能比这更少？比如说，两分钟的剧烈运动是否也能有效地改善健康和体能状况？
Dr. Tjonna, the killjoy, doubts it. There are other groups of scientists looking at even shorter bouts of exercise, he says, “but it seems like they don’t get the same results regarding the maximal oxygen uptake” as the four-minute sessions used in his experiment. Since improved maximal oxygen uptake can reliably indicate better overall cardiovascular health, he suspects that “we need a certain length of the interval to trigger” such health and fitness benefits.
遗憾的是，提欧拿博士对此持怀疑态度。目前已有其他研究小组的科学家对时间更短的短期锻炼进行了研究，他说，“但就最大摄氧量而言，他们似乎并未取得与四分钟锻炼相同的成果。”鉴于最大摄氧量提高能作为心血管健康状况整体改善的有效指标，提欧拿并不认为这种健康和体能收益“需要特定长度的间歇性锻炼才能触发”。
Thankfully, for those worried that a trip to the gym is an inefficient means of completing four minutes of exercise, the workout can effectively be practiced anywhere, Dr. Tjonna says. Sprint uphill for four minutes or race up multiple flights of steps. Bicycle, swim or even walk briskly, as long as you raise your heart rate sufficiently for four minutes. (Obviously, consult your doctor first if you haven’t been active in the past.)
有些人担心为了四分钟锻炼而跑一趟健身房简直是“拿大刀砍蚊子”，但提欧拿博士指出，值得庆幸的是，这种锻炼可在任何场所进行，且同样有效。你可以在四分钟内坚持冲刺上坡或爬楼梯，也可以骑自行车、游泳甚至快走，只要在这四分钟期间你能将心率保持在足够的水平就行。（当然，如果您以前并不十分热衷于运动，我们建议您先咨询您的医生。）
“Everyone, we think,” Dr. Tjonna says, “has time for this kind of exercise three times a week.”
“我们认为，”提欧拿博士说，“每周挤出时间来进行三次这样的锻炼对任何人来说都不算过分的要求。”