GAZA CITY — The four Bakr boys were young cousins, the children of Gaza fishermen who had ordered them to stay indoors — and especially away from the beach. But cooped up for nine days during Israeli bombardments, the children defied their parents and went out Wednesday afternoon, the eldest shooing away his little brother, telling him it was too dangerous.
加沙城——巴克尔(Bakr)家的那4个男孩是堂兄弟，他们是加沙的渔家孩子，家长们曾不许他们出门，尤其不要去沙滩。但是，被以色列空袭关了9天禁闭的孩子们，没听家长的话，在周三下午出去了，孩子中最大的那个告诉自己的弟弟外面太危险，把弟弟赶回了家。
As they played on and around a jetty in the late-afternoon sun, a blast hit a nearby shack. One boy was killed instantly. The others ran. There was a second blast, and three more bodies littered the sand. One was charred, missing a leg, and another lay motionless, his curly head intact, his legs splayed at unnatural angles.
当他们在午后的太阳下，在一个登岸码头附近玩耍时，一个炸弹击中了旁边的一个小棚子。一名男孩当场被炸死，其余的马上跑起来。第二个炸弹落下后，沙滩上又多了三具尸体。其中一具被烧焦，还缺了一条腿；还有一具纹丝不动地躺着，他的一头卷发完好无损，但他的双腿以不自然的角度叉开着。
The Israeli military acknowledged later that it had launched the strike, which it said was aimed at Hamas militants, and called the civilian deaths “a tragic outcome.”
以色列军方后来承认，炸弹是他们发射的，并说目标是哈马斯武装分子，军方称平民死亡是“一个可悲的结果”。
The four dead boys came quickly to symbolize how the Israeli aerial assaults in Gaza are inevitably killing innocents in this crowded, impoverished sliver of land along the Mediterranean Sea. They stood out because they were inarguably blameless, children who simply wanted to play on their favorite beach, near the fishing port where their large extended family keeps its boats.
这四个死去的男孩很快成为以色列空袭加沙的象征，在地中海边这片拥挤且贫穷的狭窄土地上，空袭会不可避免地造成无辜者死亡。男孩们具有代表性，因为他们无可争议是无辜的，他们只是想在自己喜欢的沙滩上、在他们的大家庭停放渔船的港口附近玩耍。
The killings also crystallized the conundrum for the 1.7 million Gazans trapped between Israel’s powerful military machine and the militants of Hamas and its affiliates, who fire rockets into Israel with little regard for how the response affects Gazans. Virtually imprisoned by the border controls of Israel and, increasingly, Egypt, most Gazans have nothing to do with the perennial conflict but cannot escape it.
孩子们被炸死也集中体现了170万加沙人的困境：他们被夹在以色列强大的军事机器和哈马斯及其附属机构的武装分子之间，武装分子把火箭弹射向以色列时，很少考虑以色列的反应会给加沙人带来什么后果。以色列的边境管制，加上日益加强的埃及边境控制，让加沙人几乎生活在被监禁的状态，大多数加沙人都与巴以之间的常年冲突无关，但他们无法逃脱这个冲突。
More than 150 civilians, including more than 40 children, have been killed in Israel’s air assaults in Gaza to curb militant rocket fire. Civilians make up about 75 percent of the Palestinian deaths, according to a running count by the United Nations.
在以色列为了遏制加沙武装分子发射火箭弹而发动的空袭中，已有150多个平民被炸死，其中包括40多名儿童。据联合国的滚动统计，巴勒斯坦的死亡人数中，平民约占75%。
Israel’s military says that it takes extensive precautions to avoid killing civilians and that it does not deliberately target them, and it blames Hamas for operating in populated areas. But it has acknowledged, according to Israel Radio, that about half the people killed so far were “not involved in terrorism.”
以色列军方说，自己采取了广泛的预防措施，以避免造成平民死亡，而且没有故意针对平民，以色列军方指责哈马斯在人口密集的地方活动。但据以色列电台报道，军方承认，迄今被打死的人中约有一半“没有参与恐怖活动”。
In a report issued Wednesday, Human Rights Watch said Israel had repeatedly struck civilians and their property without a clear military purpose and called on it to “end unlawful attacks.” Israel has hit houses, offices and farmland in Gaza with F-16 airstrikes, missiles fired from Apache helicopters and shelling from naval gunboats.
人权观察(Human Rights Watch)在周三发布的报告中指出，以色列多次袭击平民和他们的财产，这种做法没有明显的军事目的，并呼吁其“停止非法的袭击”。以色列使用F-16战斗机空袭，以及用阿帕奇直升机发射导弹、从海军炮艇上发射炮弹，轰炸加沙的住房，办公楼和农田。
Human Rights Watch has also condemned Hamas for deliberately targeting civilians in Israel. Hamas and allied militants have fired more than 1,000 rockets into Israel since July 8. One Israeli civilian has been killed. Most rockets have fallen in open ground or have been destroyed by Israel’s Iron Dome interception system.
人权观察也谴责了哈马斯故意把以色列平民作为目标。自从7月8日以来，哈马斯和同盟武装分子已向以色列发射了1000多枚火箭弹，一名以色列平民被打死。大多数火箭弹落在空地上，或被以色列的“铁穹”(Iron Dome)拦截系统击毁。
Alon Ben-David, a well-sourced Israeli military affairs analyst, said on Israeli television that the first beach blast targeted a structure that Israel believed was used by Hamas. He said the second blast might have been aimed at the running children, perhaps mistaken for militants. He added that given the military’s technologically advanced surveillance equipment, “it is a little hard for me to understand this, because the images show that the figures are children.”
消息灵通的军事分析师阿隆·本·戴维(Alon Ben-David)在以色列的电视台上说，投向沙滩的第一颗炸弹针对的是一个以色列认为哈马斯在使用的结构，第二颗炸弹有可能是针对正在跑的儿童，也许把他们误认为是武装分子了。他补充说，考虑到军方的高新技术监视设备，“这有点让我难以理解，因为图像表明，那些人影是儿童。”
The killings recalled an episode in June 2006 when seven members of a family, the Ghaliyas, were killed by a shell as they enjoyed a day at the beach. The Israelis said they had shelled areas where militants had fired rockets into Israel, but denied that the shell that killed the family was theirs. No Palestinians believed the denial, and the anger fed an escalating cycle of violence.
这些死亡让人回想起2006年6月的一幕，加里亚一家(the Ghaliyas)七口被一枚炮弹炸死，当时他们正在沙滩上享受快乐的一天。以色列人说，他们向那里发射了炮弹，因为武装分子曾从那里向以色列发射火箭弹，但否认炸死那家人的炮弹是以色列的。没有巴勒斯坦人相信以色列的说法，由之引起的愤怒加重了暴力的不断升级。
At the Bakr family house on Wednesday afternoon, women wept and wailed. One cursed both Israel and Hamas. Another, Nasreen al-Bakr, noted quietly that Hamas had killed 10 of her family members in factional fighting.
周三下午，在巴克尔家里，妇女们在哭泣哀号。其中一位既诅咒以色列又大骂哈马斯。另一位叫纳斯丽恩·巴克尔(Nasreen al-Bakr)，她低声说，哈马斯在派系战斗中已经杀死了她家10名成员。
Relatives identified the boys as Mohammad, 11 or 12, Ismail, 9, Zakariya, 10, and Ahed, 7 or 9, an only son with seven sisters. In the chaos of an extended family milling about in mourning, there was some confusion about the ages.
亲属说被炸死的男孩是11或12岁的穆罕默德(Mohammad)、9的伊斯梅尔(Ismail)、10岁的扎卡里亚(Zakariya)，以及7岁或9岁的阿赫德(Ahed)，阿赫德是父母唯一的儿子，他有七个姐妹。在这个深陷哀悼混乱的大家庭中，人们对孩子的年龄有点搞不清。
Ms. Bakr, 27, said that the day before, she had opposed a proposed cease-fire, wanting to hold out for “a solution” that would end Israel’s restrictions on fishing and allow the family to resume its livelihood.
27岁的巴克尔女士说，一天前，她曾反对停火提议，希望能为得到一种“解决方案”坚持下去，该方案将会结束以色列对捕鱼的限制，从而让她家恢复生计。
“Not today,” she said, then reconsidered, adding, “Today, too.” Her nephew’s blood, she reasoned, should not be in vain.
“今天我不那么想了，”她说，不过她考虑了一会儿后又说，“今天我也那么想。”她的理由是，侄子的血不能白流。
Like many Gaza children from large families, the cousins were inseparable and traveled in a pack. In relatively normal times, they went daily to catch crabs, play soccer and check on the family boats at the beach, where Gazans relax at outdoor cafes. Ahed, with standout grades, was expected to pursue higher studies, while the rest planned to join their elders fishing.
和许多加沙大家庭中的孩子一样，那四个堂兄弟形影不离，常常一起行动。在相对来说比较正常的时候，他们每天都去抓螃蟹，踢足球，到沙滩上察看家里的渔船，而加沙人则会到露天咖啡馆里放松一下。阿赫德的学习成绩特别优秀，人们曾期望他能受更多的教育，而其他几个孩子则打算和长辈一起去打鱼。
Mohammad and his brother Ramzi, 8, liked to play roles from a popular Syrian soap opera, Bab al-Hara. Mohammad was Moataz, an insurgent fugitive from French colonial authorities. Ramzi was Moataz’s brother, Issam, a neighborhood leader who stayed close to home. They reprised those roles on Wednesday, when adventurous Mohammad sent Ramzi home. “He was always worried for me,” Ramzi said softly.
穆罕默德喜欢和8岁的弟弟拉姆齐(Ramzi)一起假扮一部流行的叙利亚电视系列剧Bab al-Hara中的人物。穆罕默德当躲避法国殖民当局的造反者莫阿塔兹(Moataz)，拉姆齐当阿塔兹的弟弟伊萨姆(Issam)，伊萨姆是社区领袖，没有远走他乡。当爱冒险的穆罕默德让拉姆齐回家时，兄弟俩周三再次扮演了那些角色。“他总是为我担心，”拉姆齐轻声说道。
As the afternoon turned golden, Tyler Hicks, a New York Times photographer, was in his hotel room facing the beach. He heard “a loud, close blast,” he said. From the window, he saw the shack burning and a boy running. He turned to grab his equipment, then heard another blast. There was a body on the beach. Mr. Hicks ran.
当午后的阳光开始变金黄时，《纽约时报》的摄影记者泰勒·希克斯(Tyler Hicks)正在他的旅馆房间里面对沙滩。他听到“一个很响、很近的爆炸声”，他说。从窗户里，他看到小棚子在燃烧，一个男孩在跑。他转身去拿摄影设备，在此刻听到了第二个爆炸声。一具尸体倒在了沙滩上，希克斯跑出房间。
“I saw that boy running,” he said, “and by the time I had reacted he was already dead. That’s the image that will stay with me.”
“我看到那个男孩在跑，”他说，“等我反应过来时，他已经死了。这个场景我永远也不会忘记。”
Men came running, the first to arrive raising his hands to his head in anguish. In such tight neighborhoods, Mr. Hicks said, “people know what family these boys are from and who their parents are.” The boys were carried to the nearby Deira Hotel, where foreign journalists gave first aid to other wounded children.
男人们向沙滩跑去，第一个到达的人把双手伸过头顶以示极度痛苦。希克斯说，在这种关系紧密的社区中，“人们知道这些男孩是哪家的，谁是他们的父母。”男孩们被抬到附近的德伊勒旅馆，外国记者们正在那里为其他受伤的孩子做急救。
Later, a little girl with curly hair, a sister of one of the boys, wandered outside the family house, sobbing, the adults too overwhelmed to tend her.
一会儿，一个满头卷发的小女孩哭着从家里走出来，她是死去的男孩之一的妹妹，家里的大人太难过了，没有顾上她。