JERUSALEM — Two Palestinians armed with a gun, knives and axes stormed a synagogue complex in an ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighborhood of West Jerusalem on Tuesday morning and killed four men in the middle of their morning prayers, the Israeli police said.
耶路撒冷——以色列警方称，周二早晨，两名巴勒斯坦人持一把枪、几把刀和斧头，突袭了西耶路撒冷一个极端正统派犹太社区的犹太会堂，共杀害四名男子，当时遇害者正在进行晨祷。
The assailants were killed at the scene in a gun battle with the police that wounded two officers, one of whom died of his injuries on Tuesday night. It was the deadliest attack on Israeli civilians in more than three years, and the worst in Jerusalem since 2008.
两名袭击者在与警方枪战时当场死亡，还有两名警察在枪战中受伤，其中一人因为伤势过重，于周二夜间不治身亡。这是三年多以来，针对以色列平民实施的最残暴的袭击，也是自2008年以来，耶路撒冷最严重的袭击事件。
Witnesses and Israeli leaders were particularly horrified at the religious overtones of an attack on a synagogue that killed men in ritual garments and spilled blood on prayer books.
由于袭击发生在犹太会堂，死者还穿着宗教服饰，祈祷书也溅上了血迹，其中的宗教意味让目击者和以色列领导人尤为震惊。
“To see Jews wearing tefillin and wrapped in the tallit lying in pools of blood, I wondered if I was imagining scenes from the Holocaust,” said Yehuda Meshi Zahav, the veteran leader of a religious emergency-response team, describing the straps and prayer shawls worn by the worshipers. “It was a massacre of Jews at prayer.”
“看到戴着经文护符匣(tefillin)、裹着披巾(tallit)的犹太人躺在血泊之中，我怀疑自己脑海里出现了大屠杀(Holocaust)时的场景，”一个响应紧急事件的宗教团体的资深领导人耶胡达·梅希·扎哈夫(Yehuda Meshi Zahav)说。“这场屠杀针对的是正在祷告的犹太人。”祷告者会在身上佩戴经文护符匣，披上披巾。
The 7 a.m. attack on a synagogue complex that is the heart of community life in the Har Nof neighborhood shattered Israelis’ sense of security and further strained relations with Palestinians at a time of heightened tension and violence. Six people, including a baby, a soldier and a border police officer, have been killed in a spate of vehicular and knife attacks fueled in large part by a dispute over a holy site in the Old City known to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary and to Jews as the Temple Mount.
早晨7点，此次袭击发生在一个犹太会堂，这里是哈尔诺夫(Har Nof)社区生活的核心。由于此时紧张氛围正在升级，暴力冲突加剧，此次袭击粉碎了以色列人的安全感，并导致巴以关系愈发紧张。共有六人在一系列使用车辆和刀具实施的袭击中丧生，其中包括一名婴儿、一名士兵和一个边境警察，这些袭击的起因，很大程度上在于涉及耶路撒冷老城(Old City)的一处圣地的争议。穆斯林将其称作神圣禁地(Noble Sanctuary)，犹太人将其称作圣殿山(Temple Mount)。
Three of the four men killed in the synagogue Tuesday were rabbis, and all were immigrants to Israel with dual citizenship. One was born in England, and three in the United States, including Moshe Twersky, 59, part of a celebrated Hasidic dynasty. The slain policeman, Zidan Saif, 30, a traffic officer, was from a Druse village in northern Israel. He died in a hospital.
周二在这座犹太会堂遇害的四人，都是具有双重国籍的以色列移民，一人出生在英格兰，另外三人生于美国。遇害者中有三人是拉比，其中包括59岁的莫谢·特韦尔斯基(Moshe Twersky)，他出自一个显赫的哈希德王朝(Hasidic dynasty)。遇害的警察叫做齐丹·赛义夫(Zidan Saif)，30岁，是一名交警。他来自以色列北部的一个德鲁兹派村庄，最后在医院去世。
Relatives identified the attackers as two cousins, Odai Abed Abu Jamal, 22, and Ghassan Muhammad Abu Jamal, 32. They were said to be motivated by what they saw as threats to the revered plateau that contains Al Aqsa Mosque and the Dome of the Rock.
经亲属确认，袭击者是表兄弟，他们是22岁的奥达伊·阿比德·阿布·贾迈勒(Odai Abed Abu Jamal)和32岁的加桑·穆罕默德·阿布·贾迈勒(Ghassan Muhammad Abu Jamal)。据称，他们之所以这么做，是因为他们认为阿克萨清真寺(Al Aqsa Mosque)和圆顶清真寺(Dome of the Rock)所在的神圣高地受到了威胁。
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel has repeatedly said he will not alter the status quo at the site, where non-Muslims are allowed to visit but not openly pray. Even so, President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority has called on Palestinians to protect the area and has warned of a “holy war” if it is “contaminated” by Jews.
以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)曾反复表示，他不会改变此地的现状，即非穆斯林可以前来此地，但是不能进行公开祷告。即便如此，巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)还是呼吁巴勒斯坦人为该区域提供保护，并警告称如果此地被犹太人“玷污”，可能会发生“圣战”。
“They carried out this operation because of the fire in their hearts — they were under pressures, pressures, pressures, and in one ripe moment, the explosion took place,” said a relative of the attackers who gave his name as Abu Salah, holding photographs of the men. “I say in full mouth, it is a religious war which Netanyahu has started,” he added. “It will end the way we like.”
“他们之所以这么做，是因为心中的怒火——他们受到了压力、压力、压力，所以在时机成熟的时刻，就爆发了，”袭击者的一名亲属拿着两人的照片称。这名亲属自称叫做阿布·萨拉赫(Abu Salah)。“我可以肯定地说，这是内塔尼亚胡掀起的一场宗教战争，”他还说。“将以我们喜欢的方式结束。”
Mr. Netanyahu called Tuesday’s attack “the direct result of the incitement” led by Mr. Abbas and Hamas, the militant Palestinian faction, and vowed to “respond with a heavy hand to the brutal murder of Jews who came to pray, and were eliminated by despicable murderers.”
内塔尼亚胡称，周二的袭击是以阿巴斯和巴勒斯坦武装组织哈马斯(Hamas)带头“煽动的直接后果”，并声言要“重拳回击这些针对犹太人的残忍谋杀——这些犹太人前来祷告，却被卑鄙的歹徒杀害。”
The prime minister ordered the demolition of the homes of the perpetrators of the recent assaults. According to a statement from his office, he also “directed that enforcement against those who incite toward terrorist attacks be significantly increased.” The statement referred to “the series of additional decisions that have been made to strengthen security throughout the country,” but it offered no specifics.
内塔尼亚胡下令拆除近期袭击案元凶的住房。根据他的办公室发布的声明，他还“命令大幅加强针对恐怖袭击煽动者的执法力度”。声明提到“政府还做出了一系列其他决定，以加强全国的安全防卫”，但并未公布相关细节。
President Obama issued a statement condemning the killings in the synagogue, saying “there is and can be no justification for such attacks against innocent civilians.”
奥巴马总统发表声明，对犹太会堂遇袭事件表示了谴责，称“这种针对无辜平民的袭击没有，也不应该有任何借口”。
“Too many Israelis have died; too many Palestinians have died,” Mr. Obama said later at the White House. “At this difficult time, I think it’s important for both Palestinians and Israelis to try to work together to lower tensions and reject violence.” He added: “We have to remind ourselves that the majority of Palestinians and Israelis overwhelmingly want peace.”
“有太多的以色列人丧生，也有太多的巴勒斯坦人丧生，”奥巴马随后在白宫说。“我认为，在这个艰难时刻，巴勒斯坦和以色列应该尝试共同努力，缓和紧张程度，摒弃暴力。”他还说：“我们必须提醒自己，大多数巴勒斯坦人和以色列人都十分渴望和平。”
The United Nations special envoy for the Middle East, Robert H. Serry, also condemned the attacks. And Secretary of State John Kerry called on Palestinian leaders to do the same. “They must begin to take serious steps to restrain any kind of incitement that comes from their language, from other people’s language, and exhibit the kind of leadership that is necessary to put this region on a different path,” Mr. Kerry said in London after speaking to Mr. Netanyahu by telephone.
联合国中东问题特使罗伯特·H·塞里(Robert H. Serry)也对袭击事件表示了谴责。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)呼吁巴勒斯坦领导人也同样做出谴责。克里与内塔尼亚胡通过电话之后，在伦敦表示，“他们必须开始采取切实举措，克制自己及其他人发表的煽动性言论，展示出带领该地区走上新道路所需要的那种领导风范。”
Mr. Abbas responded to Mr. Kerry’s demand, offering his first denouncement of any Palestinian attack during the recent escalation.
阿巴斯对克里的呼吁做出了回应，首次对最近升级的局势中，巴勒斯坦一方采取的袭击行动做出谴责。
“We condemn the killing of civilians from any side,” he said in a statement published by Wafa, the official Palestinian news agency. “We condemn the killings of worshipers at the synagogue in Jerusalem, and condemn acts of violence no matter their source.”
“我们谴责任何一方杀害平民的行为，”他通过巴勒斯坦官方通讯社Wafa发表声明称。“我们谴责发生在耶路撒冷犹太会堂的针对祷告者的袭击，谴责任何人采取的暴力行为。”
But in the Gaza Strip and parts of the West Bank, there were celebrations after the attack, and other Palestinian leaders praised it as a response to what they see as a threat to the holy site, and to the recent hanging death of a Palestinian bus driver in Jerusalem. Relatives and friends of the driver, Yousef al-Ramouni, insisted that he was lynched by Jews, but the Israeli police said an autopsy on Monday found that his death was a suicide.
但在袭击事件发生后，加沙地带及约旦河西岸部分地区开展了庆祝活动，其他巴勒斯坦领导人则称赞，这期袭击是在回应圣地面临的威胁，以及最近发生的巴勒斯坦公交车司机被吊死的事件。司机优素福·拉穆尼(Yousef al-Ramouni)的亲人和朋友坚称，他是被犹太人死刑处死的，但以色列警方在周一称，尸检结果显示他是自杀身亡。
In Gaza City, people fired celebratory gunshots in the air on Tuesday, and praise for God and the attackers poured from mosque loudspeakers soon after the synagogue attack. Later, some people distributed sweets and paraded through the streets singing victory songs. Palestinian television ran photographs of similar outbursts of joy in Bethlehem, in the West Bank.
周二，袭击事件发生后不久，人们在加沙城鸣枪庆祝，清真寺的扬声器传出的都是对真主及袭击者的赞颂。稍后，一些人高唱胜利歌曲，上街游行，并分发糖果。巴勒斯坦电视台展示的图片显示，约旦河西岸的伯利恒也有类似的愉悦气氛。
A militant group, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, claimed responsibility for the attack. But Micky Rosenfeld, a spokesman for the Israeli police, said the authorities were still investigating whether the assailants were affiliated with any group.
武装组织巴勒斯坦人民解放阵线(Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine)声称为袭击事件负责。但以色列警方发言人米基·罗森菲尔德(Micky Rosenfeld)表示，官方仍在调查袭击者是否与任何组织有关联。
The attackers were Palestinian residents of East Jerusalem, who carry Israeli identification cards, can travel freely throughout Israel, and often work in Jewish neighborhoods.
袭击者是东耶路撒冷的巴勒斯坦人，他们持有以色列身份证，能够在以色列自由行动，他们经常在犹太社区工作。
“We’re also looking to see why they targeted this synagogue, were they familiar with this neighborhood,” Mr. Rosenfeld told reporters in a conference call.
罗森菲尔德在电话会议上告诉记者，“我们也在调查他们为什么以这座会堂为目标，以及他们是不是熟悉这个社区。”
Within two hours of the attack, scores of Israeli security forces had stormed Jabel Mukaber, the Palestinian neighborhood of East Jerusalem where those believed to have been the assailants lived, spraying tear gas at their family home and into hills of olive trees. Relatives said that the police arrested the younger assailant’s parents, three sisters and a brother, and the wife, mother and five brothers of the older attacker, who had three children, ages 6, 5 and 3.
袭击发生后的两个小时内，数十名以色列安全人员突袭了东耶路撒冷的巴勒斯坦社区贾巴尔·穆卡伯(Jabel Mukaber)。据称两名袭击者居住在该社区。安全人员对他们的房屋，以及种满橄榄树的小山喷洒催泪瓦斯。亲属们表示，警方逮捕了年龄较小的袭击者的父母、三个姐妹和一个兄弟，以及较年长袭击者的妻子、母亲和五名兄弟，这名袭击者有三个孩子，年龄分别有6岁、5岁和3岁。
“I salute Odai and Ghassan for this heroic operation,” said a cousin, Huda Abu Jamal, 46. “Every Palestinian should strike. Our conditions are too bad. These men have no jobs. Al Aqsa is in danger. The settlers brutally hanged Yousef.”
“我为这场英勇行动向奥达伊和加桑致敬，”46岁的表兄胡达·阿布·贾迈勒(Huda Abu Jamal)说。“每一名巴勒斯坦人都应该去袭击。我们的情况太糟了。这些人没有工作。阿克萨清真寺处于危险之中。犹太定居者残忍地吊死了优素福。”
Rabbi Twersky was a son of Isadore Twersky, a Harvard scholar and renowned Boston rabbi who died in 1997, and a grandson of Joseph Dov Soloveitchik, an Orthodox philosopher and teacher who died in 1993. According to the police, local news reports and the State Department, the other two Americans who were killed were Kalman Levine, 55, a rabbi originally from Kansas City, Mo., and Aryeh Kupinsky, 43. The Israeli Foreign Ministry initially said that Mr. Kupinsky, too, was a rabbi, but people who knew him said he was not. The fourth man who was killed was Rabbi Avraham Shmuel Goldberg, 68, a British-born father of six.
拉比特韦尔斯基的父亲是哈佛大学学者、波士顿著名拉比伊萨多·特韦尔斯基(Isadore Twersky)，外祖父是正统派哲学家、教师约瑟夫·多夫·索洛韦伊奇克(Joseph Dov Soloveitchik)。前者逝于1997年，后者逝于1993年。根据警方、当地新闻媒体和美国国务院披露的信息，另外两名被杀害的美国人是55岁的卡尔曼·莱文(Kalman Levine)和43岁的阿里耶·库平斯基(Aryeh Kupinsky)，前者是来自密苏里州堪萨斯城的拉比。以色列外交部起初表示，库平斯基也是一名拉比，但认识他的人说他不是。第四个受害者是68岁的亚伯拉罕·什穆埃尔·戈德堡(Avraham Shmuel Goldberg)，这名在英国出生的拉比有六个孩子。
At least a dozen other worshipers were injured, several of them seriously.
另外至少还有十几名祷告者受伤，其中几人伤势严重。
The synagogue complex, Kehilat Bnei Torah, houses several prayer groups and a large community hall on a quiet street. Several residents of the Har Nof neighborhood said the building was a center of life for Jews of Eastern European descent, and the hall was popular for weddings, film screenings and speeches.
坐落在宁静街道的Kehilat Bnei Torah犹太会堂里有几个祷告小组，还有一个社区聚会的大厅。哈尔诺夫社区的几位居民表示，这栋建筑是来自东欧的犹太人的生活中心，大厅常用来举办婚礼，放映电影和发表演讲。