In a city that’s cleaner, leafier and safer than it has been in some time, home buyers are clamoring for private outdoor space, brokers say. But if you’re looking at the lower end of the market — say, at apartments priced around $500,000 or less — is there any hope of finding your own terrace or lawn?
据一些经纪人说，在一座比以往更干净整洁、更多绿化也更安全的城市，房屋购买者们都高呼要买有私家户外空间的房产。 但如果在低端房地产市场中寻找——比如房价约50万美元（约合人民币318万元）或低于50万美元的市场——你有没有希望能找到一个属于自己的平台或草坪呢？
Maybe. If you’re searching on Staten Island, where many of the listings have yards, you’re in luck. But if you have your sights set on one of the other boroughs, finding a home with a little green space may require patience and perseverance.
也许有吧。如果你在斯塔顿岛(Staten Island)找房，那你运气不错，因为那里的许多待售房屋都是有院子的。但你只要随便在其他哪个区看看，想要找到一栋带有少许绿色空间的住宅，就必须有足够的耐心和毅力。
A search on Aug. 20 on the real estate site StreetEasy in the under-$500,000 category turned up 156 condos and co-ops for sale in Manhattan with outdoor space, out of a total of 373 apartments. But since the site doesn’t specify what sort of outdoor space, it’s hard to tell how many of those patios and gardens are shared with the neighbors. Sites like those of individual brokerages or multiple listing services that allow you to winnow results by checking specific search terms — “deck,” “balcony” or “garden/patio” — were less encouraging. Still, for the tenacious buyer, there are deals (and greenery) to be had.
今年八月二十日，在房地产网站StreetEasy上的一次搜索显示，价格低于50万美元（约合人民币318万元）的房地产分类中，曼哈顿的待售公寓共计373套，其中有156套共管公寓和合作公寓都带有户外空间。但由于该网站并没有细分是什么样的户外空间，所以你很难辨别有多少露台和花园是与邻居们共用的。一些经营个体经纪人业务或多重房屋销售平台之类的网站也没那么详细的区分，虽然这些网站让你可以通过一些具体的搜索词来筛选结果，比如“平台”、“阳台”或“花园/露台”等等。尽管如此，对于一位不屈不挠的买家而言，有些房产交易（和绿色空间）是不能错过的。
In Brooklyn: A Tiny Private Park 
布鲁克林区：一座小小的私家园林
Take apartment No. 2 at 268 Berkeley Place in Park Slope: This co-op studio has a garden with a Japanese maple, a hydrangea and brick paths edged in hostas. There’s even room for a table and chairs.
以公园坡(Park Slope)伯克利广场(Berkeley Place)268号的这套No.2公寓为例吧：这套单间的合作公寓带有一座花园，园内种了一棵日本枫树和一株绣球花，还有一条砖砌的小径钻入了玉簪花从中。那里甚至有地方可以放一张桌子和几把椅子。
“It takes you out of the metropolitan feel of things,” said Joanna Mayfield Marks, a Park Slope resident and the associate broker with Halstead Property who listed the unit for $435,000. Prospect Park can sometimes feel crowded, she added, and an apartment like this offers “a little peace and tranquillity.”
“这套公寓让你远离了那些有都市感的东西，”一位公园坡居民兼霍尔斯泰特房地产公司的伙伴经纪人乔安娜·梅菲尔德·马克思(Joanna Mayfield Marks)说，该公司列出该房产的价格为43.5万美元（约合人民币277万元）。前景公园(Prospect Park)地段有时候可能会让人觉得太拥挤了，她补充说，而这样一套公寓可以给人带来“一点儿安静祥和的感觉”。
The catch? At around 500 square feet, the garden is considerably larger than the apartment itself.
面积多大？约500平方英尺（约47平方米），这座花园的面积比公寓更大。
Whoever buys the studio, on the ground level of a four-story, eight-unit brownstone near Prospect Park, may need a designer’s eye as well as a green thumb. A large bed will be a tight fit, and the bathroom, tiled in Pepto-Bismol pink, could use an upgrade.
这套单间公寓位于前景公园附近，在一栋高四层、有八个单元的褐石屋的一楼，无论谁买下这套公寓，这位买家都必须有设计师的眼光和特殊的园艺才能。大床会让空间显得局促，而这间浴室，里面贴着Pepto-Bismol（一种胃药品牌——译注）那种粉色的瓷砖，可以来一次翻修。
But these may be details you could live with in exchange for a private retreat in the coveted brownstone belt — where single-family townhouses are nowhere near the sub-$500,000 price point and few multifamily buildings currently on the market have terraces. Even new condominiums in this bracket in neighborhoods like Williamsburg rarely seem to offer more than a barely usable Juliet balcony.
这些细节都可以忍受，只要能在这片令人垂涎的褐石屋地带换来一处私人的养尊处优之所，这里供单户家庭居住的那些联排别墅不可能低于50万美元（约合人民币318万元）的价格水平，而目前在房地产市场上，几乎没有多户共住式大楼带有户外平台。而在威廉斯堡（Williamsburg）这类同档次的社区中，即便是新的共管公寓，所能提供的阳台似乎也不会比勉强可用的朱丽叶阳台更大。
Deeper in Brooklyn, where prices are lower, there is a little more green to go around. But often what counts as outdoor space there — in the eyes of brokers, anyway — are lawns separating apartment towers. A recent online search, however, yielded a few single-family houses with yards in Gerritsen Beach, Canarsie and East New York.
在房价更低的布鲁克林区偏远处，房产周围的绿地也更多。然而，那里的所谓绿地——反正房地产经纪人是这样看的——无非是一些分隔在公寓大楼之间的草坪。不过最近一次网上搜索结果显示，在格里森海滩(Gerritsen Beach)、卡纳西(Canarsie)和东纽约(East New York)一带，出现了几栋带院子的单户式住房。
In Manhattan: A Terrace of One’s Own
曼哈顿：一处属于自己的平台
Plenty of penthouses with terraces are available in Manhattan — for a price.
曼哈顿有许多带平台的顶层公寓在售——价格不菲。
The triplex penthouse at the 72-story CitySpire, at 150 West 56th Street in Midtown, has wraparound terraces on three levels, with a total of 3,000 square feet of outdoor space. It is listed at $100 million. The terraces in similar apartments at the Plaza Hotel, Trump Park Avenue and 35 North Moore Street in TriBeCa are also stunning and priced nearly as high.
在中城区西56街150号，这栋72层的CitySpire大厦中有一套上下三层的顶楼豪华公寓，该公寓的每一层外面都有平台围住，全部户外面积共计3000平方英尺（约279平方米）。这套公寓的售价为1亿美元（约合人民币6.4亿元）。而在特朗普公园大道(Trump Park Avenue)和特里贝卡社区(TriBeCa)北摩尔街35号的广场饭店中，有些相似的公寓也带有面积大得惊人的户外平台，而且价格几乎一样高。
In a borough where the average apartment price was $1.87 million in the second quarter of 2015, according to a report prepared for the Douglas Elliman brokerage, does a buyer who hasn’t won the lottery have any hope of scoring a rooftop terrace?
据一份为道格拉斯·埃利曼房地产经纪公司准备的报告，2015年第二季度曼哈顿公寓的平均价格为187万美元（约合人民币1191万元），试问在这样一个行政区中，一位没赢过乐透彩券的买家会有希望买到一套带天台的公寓吗？
Maybe. Penthouse D at 103 East 84th Street, a 10-story prewar doorman co-op on the Upper East Side, just off Park Avenue, is listed with Seth Levin, an associate broker at Douglas Elliman, for $225,000. True, it is less than 250 square feet, making the words “Think Big” posted over one of the doors seem like a mantra for peace of mind. And, yes, the monthly maintenance of $1,955 is a bit steep.
也许会有。就在公园大道不远处，东84街103号的这套顶层公寓D位于上东区一栋带门卫的十层战前合作公寓楼，该房产由道格拉斯·埃利曼公司的一位合伙经纪人赛斯·莱文(Seth Levin)代理，售价22.5万美元（约合人民币143万元）。不错，该公寓面积不到250平方英尺（约23平方米），所以，在屋内一扇门上贴着的“往大了想”(Think Big)这句话就像是一句能平心静气的经文。这套公寓每个月1955美元（约合人民币1.3万元）的维护费也确实有点夸张。
But up a couple of steps is a terrace roomy enough to accommodate a small table and chairs. It’s not completely private — it connects with the terrace of the adjoining penthouse — but the apartment’s owners control an almost 15-foot stretch. And for a bit of sun on a Manhattan roof, that may be enough.
但往楼上走几步就是平台，那里的空间大得可以放下一张小桌子和几把椅子。这个平台并不完全是私有的——这里还连着旁边那套顶层公寓的平台——但该公寓的业主可以享有大约15英尺（约4.6米）长的一片区域。对曼哈顿楼顶的那少许阳光而言，这么大的地方已经足够了。
In the Bronx: A Balcony with a View
布朗克斯区：一座看得见风景的阳台
There isn’t much in the way of private outdoor space for less than $500,000 in market-rate buildings in the dense south-central section of the Bronx, according to a search of listings. On the edges of the borough, though, it’s possible to find not only fresh air, but sweeping views.
据一次在售房产的网上搜索结果，在布朗克斯区人口密集的中南部区域，那些可市场流通的住宅楼公寓，凡价格低于50万美元（约合人民币318万元）的，基本上不带私人户外空间。不过，在该行政区的边缘地带，你很有可能找到一些不但能呼吸新鲜空气而且视野非常开阔的住处。
Many of the tall brick buildings that were constructed there in the latter half of the 20th century have facades studded with balconies. One example is the Edmond Lee, a 17-story co-op at 3135 Johnson Avenue in South Riverdale near the Harlem River, built in the 1950s.
这里许多建于20世纪下半叶的砖砌高楼都有点缀着阳台的立面。其中之一就是在哈勒姆河(Harlem River)附近，位于南里弗代尔(South Riverdale)约翰逊大道3135号、建于20世纪50年代的这栋楼高十七层的合作公寓楼Edmond Lee。
Apartment 16G, a 975-square-foot one-bedroom near the top of the building, is listed by Chintan Trivedi, the owner of Re/Max in the City, for $324,900. Views from its north-facing balcony take in similar high-rises dotting this part of Riverdale, as well as the green hills beyond.
该楼接近顶层的一套面积975平方英尺（约91平方米）的一居室公寓16G，由Re/Max in the City房地产公司的所有人齐因坦·特里维迪(Chintan Trivedi)代理销售，价格为32.49万美元（约合人民币206.9万元）。在该公寓朝北的这座阳台上，可以看见附近几栋差不多的高楼伫立在里弗代尔的这片区域中，还可以看见更远处的绿色山丘。
With roughly 30 square feet, the balcony can easily accommodate patio furniture. And the co-op board permits shareholders to enclose their balconies with screens, to keep bugs away, or even with glass walls, to turn them into year-round spaces.
阳台面积大约30平方英尺（约2.8平方米），可以轻松放下一些户外家具。而且这栋合作公寓楼的管理委员会允许业主们用纱窗将阳台封闭起来，以隔离虫害，甚至允许用玻璃墙把阳台改建为一处全天候的活动空间。
According to brokers, units like this routinely command about 10 percent more than those without balconies. But an even better way to estimate the value that balconies add, they say, is to figure that their square footage is worth up to 50 percent of an apartment’s indoor square footage.
根据一些房地产经纪人说，这类公寓的要价往往比那些没有阳台的公寓高10%。不过，这些经纪人说，还有个更好地方法来评估那些阳台所带来的价值，要知道，这些阳台建筑面积的价值，相当于一套公寓的室内建筑面积的50%。
However you figure the value, there are other candidates with the amenity of fresh air in the area. More than half a dozen were offered for under $500,000 on StreetEasy earlier this month, including apartments in the Winston Churchill at 2500 Johnson, at 3601 Johnson and at 735 Kappock Street.
无论你怎样理解阳台的价值，在这片区域，还有其他一些便于呼吸新鲜空气的候选住宅。本月初，SteetEasy上有不止六处房地产以低于50万美元的价格出售，其中包括在温斯顿·丘吉尔社区(Winston Churchill)约翰逊大道2500号、约翰逊大道3601号和卡波克街735号(Kappock Street)这几栋大楼中的公寓。
Call it the balcony district. And as Michael Rodriguez, a salesman with Re/Max in the City, said, Riverdale has other things going for it as well. “It’s quieter here,” he said. “And you will get more for your money.”
请称之为阳台区吧。正如Re/Max in the City公司的一位房地产销售迈克尔·罗德里格斯(Michael Rodriguez)说的那样，里弗代尔还有其他一些好处。“这里更安静，”他说。“而且你能买到更大面积的公寓。”
In Upper Manhattan: A Real Backyard
曼哈顿上城区：一座真正的后院
In the area north of Central Park, where Manhattan tapers to a panhandle, prices tend to be cheaper, but while your dollar may go farther, that doesn’t often mean daisies.
在中央公园北部的这片区域，也就是曼哈顿逐渐形成长柄状的地方，房地产的价格往往较为便宜，不过，虽然你可以买到更大面积了，但并不意味着可以买到好货色。
Pricey townhouses in Hamilton Heights often come with private outdoor space, but in most multifamily buildings, roof decks, patios or courtyards are shared. One exception is a co-op at 239 West 148th Street: No. 1F, a two-bedroom duplex with 1,419 square feet that comes with a 300-square-foot yard.
在汉密尔顿高地(Hamilton Heights)，那些价格昂贵的联排别墅通常都带有私人户外空间，但在大部分多户式建筑物当中，屋顶平台、露台或庭院都是共享的。但西148街239号的一栋合作公寓楼是个例外，那里的一套两居室复式公寓No.1F面积为1419平方英尺（约132平方米），并带有一个面积300平方英尺（约28平方米）的院子。
Thirty years ago, yards like these might have been filled with trash, said Willie Kathryn Suggs, the listing agent, who has lived in Harlem since 1985. As Ms. Suggs put it, “You looked at your yard back then; you didn’t use it.” Now, she said, people are embracing the great urban outdoors, from alley gardens to sidewalk cafes.
三十年前，这样的院子里可能都是垃圾，该房产的代理人威利·凯瑟琳·萨格斯(Willie Kathryn Suggs)说，她从1985年起就一直在哈勒姆区生活。正如萨格斯所言，“那时候，你会看看院子，但不会去好好利用它。”现如今，她说，从小巷里的花园到路边的咖啡馆，人们都喜欢漂亮的城市户外空间。
Because of restrictions imposed on the developer by the city, the annual income of the buyer of No. 1F cannot exceed a percentage of the median income for the area; this year, the ceiling is $185,000, Ms. Suggs said. The co-op, in a prewar 89-unit brick building called the Washington, is priced at $499,999.
由于该市对开发商的限制，购买No.1F公寓的买家年收入不能超过该区域中值收入的一定比例；萨格斯说，今年的上限为18.5万美元（约合人民币118万元）。这套合作公寓位于一栋名为华盛顿大楼、内有89个单元的砖砌战前公寓楼中，售价为49.9999万美元。
“You’re living in a house here,” she said. “This is cheap by New York standards.”
“你在这里住上了大宅子，”她说。“以纽约的标准来看，这套公寓价格便宜。”
In Queens: A Suburban Oasis
皇后区：一座郊区的橡树园
Many of the condominiums built during Long Island City’s ongoing development boom have balconies, but few are being resold for less than $1 million, according to a recent search — perhaps because they are so close to Midtown Manhattan. For a borough known for its suburban vibe, it’s surprisingly difficult to find a home in Queens with a private lawn, at least for less than $500,000.
在长岛市(Long Island City)的持续开发热期间修建的许多共管公寓建筑都带有阳台，但根据最近的一次搜索，这些公寓的二手房售价很少低于100万美元，也许是因为这里太靠近曼哈顿中城区了吧。对于一个众所周知很有郊区氛围的行政区而言，在皇后区要找一栋至少低于50万美元而又带有私家草坪的房屋却困难得令人吃惊。
One charming option, though, is at 111-28 174th Street, in the Addisleigh Park section of St. Albans, a historic African-American enclave with brick and stucco homes. The attached Tudor-style house has three bedrooms, stained-glass windows, a sunken living room and a bonus in back: a petite yard with a grill and a raised deck.
不过，一个很不错的选择是在圣奥尔本斯(St. Albans)的Addisleigh公园区174街111-28号，这里是非洲裔美国人的一块历史飞地，有一些灰泥粉饰的砖砌房屋。这栋都铎风格的联排住宅有三间卧室、几扇彩色玻璃窗、一间下沉式客厅和屋后的一个惊喜：一座带有烤架和高台的小院子。
“It’s like an oasis,” said Yvette Watkins, the saleswoman at Douglas Elliman who listed the property for $417,888; it recently went under contract.
“这里像是一座橡树园，”道格拉斯·埃利曼公司的销售伊薇特·沃特金斯(Yvette Watkins)说，该公司代理了这处房产，售价为41.7888万美元（约266万元）；该房产最近已签约售出。
Separated from the house by an alley, the yard is still close enough to use for parties. Carolyn Davis, the retired elementary school principal who owns the property, said she has held jazz concerts there. Musicians jammed in the one-car garage under the house, she said, while guests mingled outdoors.
这座院子与房屋之间隔着一条小路，但距离仍然近得可以用来开派对。这位退了休的小学校长、该房产的业主卡洛琳·戴维斯(Carolyn Davis)说，她已经在那里办过几场爵士音乐会了。她说，乐师们挤在房屋下面的一间单车位车库中，而客人们都在户外活动。
“I would never have bought this house without the yard,” Ms. Davis added. “I come from a large family, and barbecuing is essential.”
“如果没有这座院子，我是绝不会买下这栋房屋的，”戴维斯补充道。“我来自于一个大家庭，所以烧烤活动非常重要。”