WASHINGTON — The United States and Cuba will announce an agreement on Wednesday to reopen embassies in each other’s capitals, formally restoring diplomatic relations more than a half-century after they were ruptured, according to administration officials.
华盛顿——据几位政府官员透露，美国和古巴计划在周三宣布两国在对方首都重开大使馆的协议，意味着在关系破裂半个多世纪之后，双方即将正式恢复外交关系。
The agreement represents the most tangible outcome to date of President Obama’s decision to reach out to the island nation and end its decades of isolation. Mr. Obama declared in December that he wanted to resume ties with Havana, and the two sides have spent the last six months in painstaking negotiations to work out details of the new embassies.
自奥巴马总统向这个岛国抛出橄榄枝，以期结束几十年的隔绝以来，这份协议是最为切实的成果之一。去年12月，奥巴马宣布他有意和古巴重建外交关系，接下来双方进行了六个月的艰苦谈判，商定重开大使馆的各种细节。
Mr. Obama will announce plans to reopen the embassies in the Rose Garden on Wednesday morning. Secretary of State John Kerry will also discuss the plans in Vienna, where he is negotiating a nuclear agreement with Iran, according to the officials, who insisted on anonymity in advance of the formal announcement. Mr. Kerry plans to travel to Havana for the actual opening of the embassy in July.
要求在消息正式发布之前不具名的官员们透露。奥巴马将于周三上午在白宫玫瑰园宣布重开大使馆的各项计划。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)也将在维也纳谈论这些计划，他正在那里就一项核武器协议和伊朗进行谈判。他还计划在7月份前往哈瓦那参加正式的大使馆复馆仪式。
President Dwight D. Eisenhower broke off diplomatic relations with Cuba in January 1961 just before leaving office in response to increased tensions with the revolutionary government of Fidel Castro. A trade embargo imposed by Mr. Eisenhower was then toughened by his successors, and the two neighbors have spent more than 50 years at odds.
1961年1月，由于和菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)领导的古巴革命政府关系日趋紧张，德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)总统在自己离任前夕切断了美国与古巴的外交联系，并开始对古巴实行贸易禁运，其继任者进一步加强这一政策，两个邻国在之后经历了50多年的矛盾隔阂。
The United States already has a limited diplomatic outpost in Havana, called an interests section, in the same seven-story building on the Malecón waterfront that served as the embassy until 1961. After so many years as a small presence in a hostile country, the building is worn down. The State Department has said it needs $6.6 million to retrofit it to make it suitable as an embassy.
之前美国已经在哈瓦那设立了具备有限外交职能的机构，称为“利益代表处”(interests section)，办公地点就设在昔日美国大使馆所在的七层建筑里，直到1961年以前，这座位于马勒孔(Malecón)滨海大道上建筑一直用作美国驻古巴大使馆。作为多年来美国在敌对国家的小小“遗迹”存在，它已十分破败。美国国务院表示他们将需要660万美金（约合4100万人民币）进行翻新，才能使其具备作为全功能大使馆的条件。
But some Republicans who oppose the outreach to Cuba, calling it the appeasement of a dictatorial government, have been working to bar any financing for such work. Critics may also try to block the confirmation of a new ambassador once Mr. Obama makes a nomination.
但是反对与古巴恢复邦交的共和党人称此举是姑息独裁政府，一直在尽力阻止为这类工作提供任何资金。反对者可能还会在奥巴马提出新任大使提名后，拒绝给予确认。
The United States has a career diplomat running the interests section, Jeffrey DeLaurentis, who could serve as the acting ambassador pending a permanent appointment. Mr. DeLaurentis, who holds the rank of ambassador, has served at the United Nations, as a deputy assistant secretary of state and in Havana as the political-economic section chief.
美国驻古巴利益代表处的负责人杰弗里·德劳伦蒂斯(Jeffrey DeLaurentis)是一名职业外交家，可以在人选待决期间担任美国驻古巴代理大使之职。拥有大使职衔的德劳伦蒂斯曾担任美国驻联合国副助理秘书，及美国驻哈瓦那政治经济事务负责人。
Cuba has an interests section in a stately manor in the Adams Morgan section of Washington that could be upgraded. In May, Cuba announced that its banking services for that office had been restored, a precondition to reopening a full embassy.
古巴在美国的利益代表处位于华盛顿特区亚当斯·摩根的一处典雅的庄园内，届时也可能进行翻新。今年五月，古巴宣布这一办公地点的银行服务已经恢复，这是全面恢复大使馆的一个先决条件。
In recent weeks, Cuba also repaved the driveway, repainted the fence and erected a large flagpole on the front lawn to await the formal raising of its flag.
最近几周，古巴重铺了利益代表处的车道，粉刷了围墙，并在建筑前庭草坪上竖起了一个大旗杆，等待着古巴国旗的升起。
The reopening of embassies would remove Cuba from a dwindling list of countries completely ostracized by the United States. The only other nations with which Washington has no diplomatic relations are Bhutan, Iran and North Korea, although there are other countries with which it has relations but no embassies.
重开大使馆将使古巴从美国完全排斥的（没有建立外交关系）国家名单上消失，这份不断缩减的名单将只剩下不丹、伊朗和朝鲜。不过，还有其他一些国家与美国确立了外交关系，但没有设立大使馆。
Mr. Obama has made the détente with Cuba a central foreign policy goal of his final two years in office, along with the deal with Iran to curb its nuclear program. While campaigning for president in 2008, he asserted that the United States needed to reach out to its enemies, and those two agreements would represent the culmination of that philosophy.
奥巴马将与古巴修好列为他最后两年任期内的一个核心外交目标，与之并列的是与伊朗就停止核武器项目达成协议。在2008年的总统竞选活动中，奥巴马曾宣称美国应该与它的敌人进行接触，上述两项协议将是这一政治理念的实践成果。
Critics argue that Mr. Obama is too eager to accommodate countries that do not share American interests or values. By reopening diplomatic relations with Havana, they say, Mr. Obama will be empowering the government still run by Mr. Castro’s brother, President Raúl Castro, without obtaining any assurances of democratic reforms or improvements to human rights.
批评者认为，奥巴马太急于接受与美国利益和价值观不一致的国家。他们表示，奥巴马如果与哈瓦那重建外交关系，等于是还没有得到对方任何进行民主改革或改善人权的保证，就认可依然由卡斯特罗的弟弟劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)领导的古巴政府。
In a letter to Mr. Kerry in June, after the administration removed Cuba from the list of state sponsors of terror, Senator Marco Rubio, a Cuban-American Republican from Florida and a candidate for president, vowed to oppose the confirmation of any ambassador until issues like human rights, fugitive terrorists and billions of dollars of outstanding claims were resolved.
奥巴马政府将古巴从“资助恐怖主义的国家”名单上移除后，总统候选人之一、佛罗里达州古巴裔共和党参议员马尔科·鲁比奥(Marco Rubio)在六月份给克里写了一封信，信中他表示，在人权、逃亡恐怖分子和数十亿美金待偿索赔等问题得到解决之前，他坚决反对国会确认任何大使人选。
It is “important that pro-democracy activities not be sacrificed in the name of ‘diplomacy’ just so that we can change the name of a building from ‘Interest Section’ to ‘Embassy,’ ” Mr. Rubio wrote.
“不能以‘外交策略’之名牺牲支持民主的活动，只为能把一栋建筑的名字从‘利益代表处’改为‘大使馆’，这一点很重要，”鲁比奥写道。
Cuban and American officials have been negotiating for six months over the diplomatic implications of opening embassies. United States negotiators demanded assurances that American diplomats at an embassy in Havana would be able to move freely around the country and speak with anyone, including opponents of the government. Cuban officials, who have frequently accused the United States of working to undermine the government by aiding dissidents, had resisted the request.
古巴和美国官员已经就重开大使馆的外交影响进行了六个月的磋商。美国谈判代表要求古巴方面保证美国驻哈瓦那大使馆的外交官可以在古巴境内自由出行，随意与人交谈，包括与该国政府的政敌。经常指责美国以援助异见者的方式颠覆古巴政府的古巴官员，已经拒绝了这一要求。
Proponents called the establishment of embassies a vital phase in the thaw, one that should be followed by Congress easing travel and commercial restrictions against Havana.
支持者们认为重开大使馆是两国冰释前嫌的关键一步，在国会通过放松对古巴的旅游和商贸限制的决议之后，这是应有的下一步措施。