It was late in the day and hot, and after a long march and an afternoon of speeches about federal legislation, unemployment, and racial and social justice, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. finally stepped to the lectern, in front of the Lincoln Memorial, to address the crowd of 250,000 gathered on the National Mall.
时间已经不早，天气炎热，在走了很长一段路，花了一下午时间发表有关联邦立法、失业、种族及社会正义问题的演讲后，小马丁·路德·金牧师(Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.)终于登上林肯纪念堂(Lincoln Memorial)前的讲台，向聚集在国家广场(National Mall)的25万名民众发表演说。
He began slowly, with magisterial gravity, talking about what it was to be black in America in 1963 and the “shameful condition” of race relations a hundred years after the Emancipation Proclamation. Unlike many of the day's previous speakers, he did not talk about particular bills before Congress or the marchers' demands. Instead, he situated the civil rights movement within the broader landscape of history — time past, present and future — and within the timeless vistas of Scripture.
他看上去庄严肃穆，语气沉缓地开始谈论1963年美国黑人的情况，以及在《解放黑人奴隶宣言》(Emancipation Proclamation)颁布100年后种族关系的“可耻状况”。与之前的演讲者不同，他没有谈及提交给国会(Congress)的特别法案或游行者的要求。他将民权运动置于历史长河——过去、现在和未来——及永恒的圣经(Scripture)之中。
King was about halfway through his prepared speech, when Mahalia Jackson — who earlier that day had delivered a stirring rendition of the spiritual “I Been 'Buked and I Been Scorned” — shouted out to him from the speakers' stand: “Tell 'em about the `Dream,' Martin, tell 'em about the `Dream'!” She was referring to a riff he had delivered on earlier occasions, and King pushed the text of his remarks to the side and began an extraordinary improvisation on the dream theme that would become one of the most recognizable refrains in the world.
就在金按照发言稿演讲到一半时，玛哈莉亚·杰克逊(Mahalia Jackson)——当天早些时候进行了激动人心的表演，高唱圣歌《我被责骂，我被蔑视》(I’ve Been ’Buked and I’ve Been Scorned)——从发言者所在的讲台朝他大喊，“跟他们谈谈‘梦想’，马丁，跟他们谈谈‘梦想’！”她指的是金之前发表的即兴谈话，金将发言稿推到一边，开始就梦想这个主题发表杰出的即兴演讲，这段话成了世界上最著名的排比句之一。
With his improvised riff, King took a leap into history, jumping from prose to poetry, from the podium to the pulpit. His voice arced into an emotional crescendo as he turned from a sobering assessment of current social injustices to a radiant vision of hope — of what America could be. “I have a dream,” he declared, “my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. I have a dream today!”
通过这种即兴的重复，金的散文一跃成为诗歌，讲台变成布道坛。在冷静地评估社会不公现状之后，他开始激情澎湃地谈论希望——美国能成为什么样的国家，此时，他情绪激动，声音逐渐加大。“我梦想有一天，”他宣称，“我的四个年幼的孩子将生活在一个不是以他们的肤色，而是以他们的品格作为评判标准的国家里。我今天有一个梦想！”
Many in the crowd that afternoon, 50 years ago on Wednesday, had taken buses and trains from around the country. Many wore hats and their Sunday best — “people then,” the civil rights leader John Lewis would recall, “when they went out for a protest, they dressed up” — and the Red Cross was passing out ice cubes to help alleviate the sweltering August heat. But if people were tired after a long day, they were absolutely electrified by King.
当天下午，也就是50年前的一个周三的下午，人群中有很多人乘坐公交车或火车从全国各地赶过来。很多人戴着帽子，穿着最好的衣服，民权运动领袖约翰·刘易斯(John Lewis)回忆称，“当时的人们，当他们出来参加抗议活动时，他们会盛装打扮”，红十字会(Red Cross)会分发冰块，帮助大家在8月闷热的天气里降暑。但如果说人们在参加一天的活动后已经疲惫不堪，金绝对让他们为之一振。
King's speech was not only the heart and emotional cornerstone of the March on Washington, but also a testament to the transformative powers of one man and the magic of his words. Fifty years later, it is a speech that can still move people to tears. Fifty years later, its most famous lines are recited by schoolchildren and sampled by musicians. Fifty years later, the four words “I have a dream” have become shorthand for King's commitment to freedom, social justice and nonviolence, inspiring activists from Tiananmen Square to Soweto, Eastern Europe to the West Bank.
金的演讲不仅是“向华盛顿进军”(March on Washington)活动的核心及情感基础，也证明了一个人及其语言魔力所具有的变革力量。50年后，这仍然是一段能让很多人感动落泪的演讲。50年后，学生们背诵演讲中最著名的名言，音乐家们也借用这些名言创作歌曲。50年后，“我有一个梦想”已经成为金追求自由、社会正义及非暴力的承诺的概述，激励着从天安门广场到索韦托、从东欧到约旦河西岸的活动人士。
Why does King's “Dream” speech exert such a potent hold on people around the world and across the generations? Part of its resonance resides in King's moral imagination. Part of it resides in his masterly oratory and gift for connecting with his audience — be they on the Mall that day in the sun or watching the speech on television, or decades later, viewing it online. And part of it resides in his ability, developed over a lifetime, to convey the urgency of his arguments through language richly layered with biblical and historical meanings.
为什么金的“梦想”演讲能跨越地域和年代，对那么多人造成巨大影响？部分是因为金的道德构想引发了共鸣。部分是因为他有娴熟的演讲能力和天赋，能促使观众达成共鸣，无论是当时顶着骄阳站在国家广场站的观众，还是通过电视观看演讲的，亦或是数十年后在网上观看的观众。部分是因为他通过一生发展的能力——利用充满《圣经》及历史内涵的语言来传达其观点的紧迫性。
The son, grandson and great-grandson of Baptist ministers, King was comfortable with the black church's oral tradition, and he knew how to read his audience and react to it; he would often work jazzlike improvisations around favorite sermonic riffs — like the “dream” sequence — cutting and pasting his own words and those of others. At the same time, the sonorous cadences and ringing, metaphor-rich language of the King James Bible came instinctively to him. Quotations from the Bible, along with its vivid imagery, suffused his writings, and he used them to put the sufferings of African-Americans in the context of Scripture — to give black audience members encouragement and hope, and white ones a visceral sense of identification.
作为浸礼会牧师的儿子、孙子及曾孙，金适应了黑人教会口头传教的传统，他知道如何为教徒诵读经文，如何回应他们。他会经常通过爵士乐式的即兴演讲来传达最受欢迎的布道式的重复语句——比如“梦想”系列，对自己和他人的话语进行剪切拼贴。与此同时，金会本能地运用英王詹姆斯钦定版《圣经》(King James Bible)铿锵有力的韵律及富含隐喻的语言。金的文章充满《圣经》语录及其生动的意象，他利用这些语录及意象将非裔美国人置于《圣经》的背景之下——给予黑人听众鼓励和希望，给予白人一种本能的认同感。
The entire March on Washington speech reverberates with biblical rhythms and parallels, and bristles with a panoply of references to other historical and literary texts that would have resonated with his listeners. In addition to allusions to the prophets Isaiah (“I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall be made low”) and Amos (“we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream”), there are echoes of the Declaration of Independence (“the unalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness”); Shakespeare (“this sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent”); and popular songs like Woody Guthrie's “This Land Is Your Land” (“Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York,” “Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slopes of California”).
向华盛顿进军活动的整个演讲回荡着《圣经》的韵律及与其相似的语句，金大量提到其他能够让听众产生共鸣的历史文本及文学作品。除了提及先知以赛亚(Isaiah)（“我梦想有一天，低谷升高，高山下降”）和阿莫斯(Amos)（“不达到公正似水奔流，正义如泉喷涌，我们决不会满意”），还提到了《独立宣言》(Declaration of Independence)（“不可剥夺的生命权、自由权和追求幸福的权利”）和莎士比亚(Shakespeare)（“黑人合理不满的灼热酷暑”），以及流行歌曲，比如伍迪·盖瑟瑞(Woody Guthrie)的《这是你的土地》(This Land Is Your Land)（“让自由之声响彻纽约州的崇山峻岭”，“让自由之声响彻加利福尼亚州的婀娜群峰”）。
At the same time, Dr. King was also able to nestle his arguments within a historical continuum, lending them the authority of tradition and the weight of association. For some, in his audience, the articulation of his dream for America would have evoked conscious or unconscious memories of Langston Hughes’s call in a 1935 poem to “let America be the dream the dreamers dreamed” and W. E. B. Du Bois’s description of the “wonderful America, which the founding fathers dreamed.” His final lines in the March on Washington speech come from a Negro spiritual reminding listeners of slaves’ sustaining faith in the possibility of liberation: “Free at last, free at last; thank God Almighty, we are free at last.”
与此同时，金也把他的观点放在一个历史的连续进程中，为它们赋予了传统的权威和同盟的分量。他所述的美国梦，会让一些听众有意识或无意识地忆起兰斯顿·休斯(Langston Hughes)在1935年的一首诗作中发出的呼声：“让美国成为有梦的人梦寐以求的那场酣梦”，以及W·E·B·杜波伊斯(W. E. B. Du Bois)所描述的“精彩的美国，开国元勋的梦想”。他在华盛顿大游行发表的演讲中，最后几句话来自一首黑人灵歌，它们提醒听众，奴隶们对自由的希望一直怀抱信心：“终于自由了！终于自由了！感谢全能的上帝，我们终于自由了！”
For those less familiar with African-American music and literature, there were allusions with immediate, patriotic connotations. Much the way Lincoln redefined the founders' vision of America in his “Gettysburg Address” by invoking the Declaration of Independence, so King in his “Dream” speech makes reference to both the Gettysburg Address and the Declaration of Independence. These deliberate echoes helped universalize the moral underpinnings of the civil rights movement and emphasized that its goals were only as revolutionary as the founding fathers' original vision of the U.S. King's dream for America's “citizens of color” was no more, no less than the American Dream of a country where “all men are created equal.”
如果你不太熟悉非裔美国人音乐和文学，这里我们稍作介绍：金的讲话中使用了直接的、带有爱国内涵的典故。就像林肯在《葛底斯堡演说》(Gettysburg Address)中通过援引《独立宣言》(Declaration of Independence)，重新界定了开国元勋对美国的愿景一样，金也在“梦想”演讲中提及了《葛底斯堡演说》和《独立宣言》。这些特意做出的呼应，帮助实现了民权运动道德基础的普遍意义，并强调其目标跟开国元勋们对美国的最初愿景一样具有革命性。金对“有色公民”的美国梦，跟“所有的人都平等”的美国梦正好相当，不多也不少。
As for King's quotation of “My Country, 'Tis of Thee” — an almost de facto national anthem, familiar even to children — it underscored civil rights workers' patriotic belief in the project of reinventing America. For King, it might have elicited personal memories too. The night his home was bombed during the bus boycott in Montgomery, Ala., endangering the lives of his wife, Coretta, and their infant daughter, he calmed the crowd gathered in front of their house, saying, “I want you to love our enemies.” Some of his supporters reportedly broke into song, including hymns and “My Country, 'Tis of Thee.”
至于金引用《你是我的祖国》(My Country, 'Tis of Thee)——一首妇孺皆知、堪为国歌的歌曲——的歌词，则是强调民权工作者在这个重塑美国的计划中的爱国信念。对于金而言，这也可能唤起了他的一些个人回忆。一天夜里，有人用炸弹袭击了他在阿拉巴马州蒙哥马利的居所，危及到他妻子科蕾塔(Coretta)和襁褓中的女儿的生命，人群聚集在他的住宅前，金安抚他们说：“我希望大家爱我们的敌人。”据说当时他的一些支持者突然开始唱起歌来，其中有赞美诗和《你是我的祖国》。
The March on Washington and King's “Dream” speech would play an important role in helping pass the 1964 Civil Rights Act, and the momentous Selma to Montgomery march that he led in 1965 would provide momentum for the passage later that year of the Voting Rights Act. Though King received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964, his exhausting schedule (he had been giving hundreds of speeches a year) and his frustration with schisms in the civil rights movement and increasing violence in the country led to growing weariness and depression before his assassination in 1968.
华盛顿大游行以及金的“梦想”演讲，对《1964年民权法案》(1964 Civil Rights Act)的通过起到了重要作用。他在1965年率领的从塞尔玛到蒙哥马利的重大游行，也推助了那年晚些时候《投票权法案》(Voting Rights Act)的通过。虽然金在1964年获得了诺贝尔和平奖，但他紧张的日程安排（每年发表数百次演讲），以及民权运动的分裂和国内暴力活动的加剧给他带来的挫败感，导致他在1968年遇刺之前变得日益疲惫和抑郁。
The knowledge that King gave his life to the cause lends an added poignancy to the experience of hearing his speeches today. And so does being reminded now — in the second term of Barack Obama's presidency — of the dire state of race relations in the early 1960s, when many Southern towns still had separate schools, restaurants, hotels and bathrooms for blacks and whites; and discrimination in housing and employment was prevalent across the country. Only 2 1/2 months before the “Dream” speech, Gov. George Wallace had stood in a doorway at the University of Alabama in an attempt to block two black students from trying to register; the next day the civil rights activist Medgar Evers was assassinated in front of his home in Jackson, Miss.
今天再听金的讲话，想到他把生命献给了这份事业，令人倍感辛酸。在奥巴马总统第二个任期内，提及20世纪60年代初可怕的种族关系状态，也让人更加沉痛。当时在南方许多城镇，黑人和白人的学校、餐馆、酒店和浴室仍然各自分开；对黑人的住房和就业歧视则在全美各地普遍存在。就在“梦想”演讲之前两个半月，乔治·华莱士(George Wallace)州长站在阿拉巴马大学门口，企图阻止两名黑人学生注册，第二天，民权活动家迈德加·艾佛斯(Medgar Evers)就在密西西比州杰克逊的家门前遇刺身亡。
King knew it would not be easy to “transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood” — difficulties that persist today with new debates over voter registration laws and the Trayvon Martin shooting. King probably did not foresee a black president celebrating the 50th anniversary of his speech in front of the Lincoln Memorial (now just a short walk from a memorial to the civil rights leader himself), but he did dream of a future in which the country embarked on “the sunlit path of racial justice,” and he foresaw with bittersweet prescience that 1963, as he put it, was “not an end, but a beginning.”
金知道，“把我们国家的刺耳的不协和音，转变成一曲优美动听的兄弟情谊交响曲”并不容易——这样的困难至今仍在，有关选民登记法的新辩论以及特雷沃恩·马丁(Trayvon Martin)枪杀案就是明证。金也许没有预见到会有一位黑人总统在林肯纪念堂前（现在距离这位民权领袖自己的纪念碑仅几步之遥）纪念他的演讲发表50周年，但他确实勾勒了一幅“踏上种族平等的阳关大道”的未来梦想。而且，他也以苦乐参半的先见之明看到，1963年，用他的原话说，“不是一个结束，而是一个开端。”