As the 50th anniversary of his assassination nears, John F. Kennedy remains all but impossible to pin down. One reason is that his martyrdom — for a generation of Americans still the most traumatic public event of their lives, 9/11 notwithstanding — has obscured much about the man and his accomplishments.
在约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)遇刺50周年即将到来之际，要对他盖棺定论还是一件不可能的事。其中一个原因是，比起他的为人和成就，人们更为关注他的殉难者身份。毕竟，除了“9·11”恐怖袭击事件，肯尼迪的遇刺对于整整一代美国人来说，是他们生命中所经历的最具创伤性的公共事件。
Was Kennedy a great president, as many continue to think? Or was he a reckless and charming lightweight or, worse still, the first of our celebrities-in-chief? To what extent do his numerous personal failings, barely reported during his lifetime but amply documented since, overshadow or undermine his policy achievements? And what of those achievements — in civil rights and poverty, to name two issues his administration embraced. Weren’t the breakthroughs actually the doing of his successor, Lyndon B. Johnson?
肯尼迪是不是像许多人持久相信地那样，是一位伟大的总统？还是一个虽有个人魅力，却鲁莽、无足轻重的人物？而比这更糟的看法是，肯尼迪是美国历史上第一个明星总统。他的无数错误与不足在他在世时鲜见报导，而在他过世后却被详细记录——这在多大程度上掩盖或是削弱了他在政策方面的成就？提起成就，肯尼迪政府对于民权运动和贫困问题关注颇多，但这两个问题的突破性进步，难道不是肯尼迪的继任者林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)所取得的吗？
Even the basic facts of Kennedy’s death are still subject to heated argument. The historical consensus seems to have settled on Lee Harvey Oswald as the lone assassin, but conspiracy speculation abounds — involving Johnson, the C.I.A., the mob, Fidel Castro or a baroque combination of all of them. Many of the theories have been circulating for decades and have now found new life on the Internet, in Web sites febrile with unfiltered and at times unhinged musings.
关于肯尼迪之死，即便是最基本的事实也仍旧争议不断。人们对于史实似乎已经达成共识，即暗杀肯尼迪是李·哈维·奥斯瓦尔德(Lee Harvey Oswald)一人所为，但各种阴谋论的揣测仍然层出不穷——林登·约翰逊、中央情报局、犯罪团伙、菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)等都被指为背后黑手，甚至有更离奇的说法认为上述各方都牵连其中。其中很多说法已不新鲜，但在互联网时代，在那些充斥着奇闻怪论甚至疯言疯语的网站上，它们再次焕发了生机。
Of course the Kennedy fixation is hardly limited to the digital world. An estimated 40,000 books about him have been published since his death, and this anniversary year has loosed another vast outpouring. Yet to explore the enormous literature is to be struck not by what’s there but by what’s missing. Readers can choose from many books but surprisingly few good ones, and not one really outstanding one.
当然，人们对于肯尼迪的痴迷并不限于互联网。自肯尼迪遇刺以来，共有4万多本关于肯尼迪的书籍出版。而在今年这个暗杀事件50周年的重要年份，更是涌现了大批相关书籍。但稍作探究就会发现，关于肯尼迪的著作虽然汗牛充栋，却乏善可陈。可供读者选择的好书寥寥无几，杰作更是一本也没有。
It is a curious state of affairs, and some of the nation’s leading historians wonder about it. “There is such fascination in the country about the anniversary, but there is no great book about Kennedy,” Robert Caro lamented when I spoke to him not long ago. The situation is all the stranger, he added, since Kennedy’s life and death form “one of the great American stories.” Caro should know. His epic life of Johnson (four volumes and counting) brilliantly captures parts of the Kennedy saga, especially the assassination in Dallas, revisited in the latest installment, “The Passage of Power.”
这种情形的确匪夷所思，美国一些顶尖历史学家对此也有同感。不久前，我与罗伯特·卡罗(Robert Caro)谈起此事时，他这样说：“美国国内对这个纪念日异常着迷，却没有什么关于肯尼迪的好书出来。”他认为，考虑到肯尼迪生平乃“最伟大的美国故事之一”，上述情形就显得更加奇怪。卡罗对此深有感触。他关于约翰逊的鸿篇大作（写了四卷后任在继续）出色地描绘了肯尼迪故事中的一些章节，尤其是在名为《通往权力之路》(The Passage of Power)最后一卷中写到的肯尼迪在达拉斯的遇刺。
Robert Dallek, the author of “An Unfinished Life,” probably the best single-volume Kennedy biography, suggests that the cultish atmosphere surrounding, and perhaps smothering, the actual man may be the reason for the deficit of good writing about him. “The mass audience has turned Kennedy into a celebrity, so historians are not really impressed by him,” Dallek told me. “Historians see him more as a celebrity who didn’t accomplish very much.” Dallek also pointed to a second inhibiting factor, the commercial pressure authors feel to come up with sensational new material. His own book, as it happens, included a good deal of fresh information on Kennedy’s severe health problems and their cover-up by those closest to him. And yet Dallek is careful not to let these revelations overwhelm the larger story.
《未尽的生命》(An Unfinished Life)可能是最好的单卷本肯尼迪传记了。该书作者罗伯特·戴莱克(Robert Dallek)认为，笼罩在肯尼迪身上的一种个人崇拜的氛围，使人们很难看清他的真实为人，而这也可能是为什么有关他的佳作甚少的原因。“大众把肯尼迪变成了一个名人，所以史学家对他有所不屑，”戴莱克告诉我，“他们认为他徒有其名。”而来自商业上的压力使作者们一门心思想要爆出新的猛料，戴莱克认为这是第二个使他们拿不出好作品的因素。戴莱克自己的书里就披露了许多关于肯尼迪严重患病而他的亲信们却试图掩盖的细节，而戴莱克尽力没有让这些新信息成为他作品的重头戏。
Dallek is also good on the fairy-tale aspects of the Kennedy family history, and he closely examines the workings of the Kennedy White House. So enthralled was he by this last topic that he has written a follow-up, “Camelot’s Court,” which profiles members of Kennedy’s famous brain trust and is being released for the 50th anniversary. This time, however, it is Dallek who doesn’t offer much fresh material.
戴莱克对于肯尼迪家族史传奇色彩的描述也引人入胜，他仔细研究了肯尼迪掌权的白宫是如何运作的。他被这后一话题深深吸引，写出了《佳美洛王朝》（Camelot’s Court，佳美洛是传说中亚瑟王的宫殿所在之地，美国人常用它来比喻肯尼迪政权——译注）。此书介绍了几位肯尼迪著名智囊里的成员，并于肯尼迪遇刺50周年之际出版发行。而这回，戴莱克并没有给读者提供太多新鲜的材料。
This in turn raises another question: How much is left to say about Kennedy’s presidency? The signature legislative accomplishments he and his advisers envisioned were not enacted until after his death. Then there is the Vietnam conundrum. Some maintain that Kennedy would not have escalated the war as Johnson did. But the belief that he would have limited the American presence in Vietnam is rooted as much in the romance of “what might have been” as in the documented record.
说到这，又引出了另外一个问题：关于肯尼迪的总统任期，还有什么未尽的话题吗？肯尼迪及其智囊们所策划的标志性的立法成就，直到他死后才成为现实。此外就是越南战争的泥潭。有些人认为，肯尼迪并不会像他的继任者约翰逊那样将越战升级。但所谓“肯尼迪本来会限制美国在越南军事行动规模”的想法，不过是浪漫的假设，并没有多少史料佐证。
Indeed, a dolorous mood of “what might have been” hangs over a good deal of writing about Kennedy. Arriving in time for Nov. 22 is the loathsomely titled “If Kennedy Lived. The First and Second Terms of President John F. Kennedy: An Alternate History,” by the television commentator Jeff Greenfield, who imagines a completed first Kennedy term and then a second. This isn’t new territory for Greenfield, who worked for Kennedy’s brother Robert and is the author of a previous book of presidential “what ifs” called “Then Everything Changed.” (Dallek’s “Camelot’s Court” and Greenfield’s “If Kennedy Lived” are reviewed here.)
的确，相当多关于肯尼迪的著作都笼罩着“如果他没遇刺将会怎样”的忧伤情调。一本计划11月22日出版的新书就有这样一个令人厌恶的标题：《如果肯尼迪没死：肯尼迪总统第一、第二任期的假想历史》(If Kennedy Lived. The First and Second Terms of President John F. Kennedy: An Alternate History)。此书作者、电视评论员杰夫·格林菲尔德(Jeff Greenfield)假设肯尼迪并未遇刺，并且成功连任。对于格林·菲尔德来说，这并不是个新鲜话题。他曾在肯尼迪的兄弟罗伯特麾下任职，此前还写过另外一本与几位美国总统有关的“假想历史”——《然后一切都变了》(Then Everything Changed)。
Thurston Clarke, the author of two previous and quite serviceable books on the Kennedys, also dwells on fanciful “what might have beens” in “JFK’s Last Hundred Days,” suggesting that the death of the presidential couple’s last child, Patrick, brought the grieving parents closer together and may have signaled the end of Kennedy’s compulsive womanizing. What’s more, Clarke makes a giant (and dubious) leap about Kennedy as leader, arguing that in the final 100 days he was becoming a great president. One example, according to Clarke, was his persuading the conservative Republicans Charles Halleck, the House minority leader, and Everett Dirksen, the Senate minority leader, to support a civil rights bill. Once re-elected, Kennedy would have pushed the bill through Congress.
瑟斯顿·克拉克(Thurston Clarke)此前写过两本可读性颇强的关于肯尼迪家族的书。他在《JFK的最后一百天》(JFK’s Last Hundred Days)一书中也运用了这种幻想的“假如……会怎样”的手法，提出肯尼迪夫妇的幼子帕特里克的夭折，令夫妇两人捐弃前嫌，或许标志着肯尼迪彻底终结了他那无法自控的追逐女色的行为。此外，克拉克还对肯尼迪的领导能力做出重大（但令人无法信服）的假设，认为在肯尼迪生命的最后100天中，他变成了一位伟大的总统。他举例说，肯尼迪说服两位保守派共和党人——众议员少数派领袖查尔斯·哈勒克(Charles Halleck)和参议院少数派领袖埃弗雷特·德克森(Everett Dirksen)共同支持一项民权法案，可见其领导力的突飞猛进。如果肯尼迪并未遇刺并且连任，他必将大力推动国会通过民权法案。
Kennedy as Arthurian hero is also a feature of what has been called “pundit lit” by the historian and journalist David Greenberg. The purpose of this genre (books by writers who themselves are famous) is, in Greenberg’s words, “to extend their authors’ brands — to make money, to be sure, and to express some set of ideas, however vague, but mainly to keep their celebrity creators in the media spotlight.” The champion in this growing field is Bill O’Reilly, who has milked the Kennedy assassination with unique efficiency.
把肯尼迪描绘为一位像亚瑟王那样的英雄也是史学家、记者大卫·格林伯格(David Greenberg)的著作的特色。以格林伯格为代表的一类作者本身就是名人，他们的作品被称为“专家文学”。用格林伯格的话来说，出书立著“是名人作者们个人品牌的延续。当然这类书也要赚钱并要表达某些观点，虽然有时观点会模棱两可。但是这类书最主要的目的是让它们的名人作者们持续得到媒体关注”。这一不断扩张领域里的领军人物是比尔·奥雷利（Bill O’Reilly，史学家、福克斯新闻节目主持人、美国保守势力阵营的意见领袖——译注），从肯尼迪遇刺事件中榨取价值是他的拿手好戏。
O’Reilly’s latest contribution, “Kennedy’s Last Days,” is an illustrated recycling, for children, of his mega-best seller “Killing Kennedy.” This new version, it must be said, distinctly improves on the original, whose choppy sentences, many written in the present tense, lose nothing when recast for younger readers. “He is on a collision course with evil,” O’Reilly declares. No less elevated is his discussion of Kennedy’s decision to visit Dallas despite warnings of roiling violence, including the physical assault on his United Nations ambassador, Adlai Stevenson, who had given a speech in the city in October 1963. “J.F.K. has decided to visit Big D,” O’Reilly writes. “There is no backing down.” Happily, the wooden prose is offset by the many illustrations. My favorite is a spread on the first family’s pets, including puppies and a pony.
奥雷利的新作是《肯尼迪生命中的最后时日》(Kennedy’s Last Days)。这本书的目标读者是孩子们，是他的《刺杀肯尼迪》(Killing Kennedy)的简写版，并配上了插画。不得不说，这个新版本比原书要好得多。原书中那些短促突兀、多用现在时态写成的句子在为年幼读者改写后并没有丢失多少奥雷利的写作特色。这是书中的一句话：“按照这条路走下去，他终会与邪恶交手。”奥雷利在写到肯尼迪遇刺时也运用了类似的直白风格。当时达拉斯动荡的暴力局势导致了肯尼迪政府驻联合国大使阿德莱斯·蒂文森(Adlai Stevenson)1963年10月在该市演讲时遇袭，但肯尼迪却任然执意出行。“JFK决定出访大D市，”奥雷利这样写道，“他毫不妥协。”让人欣慰的是，书中的许多插画让呆板的行文变得不那么让人难以忍受。我个人最喜爱是一副跨页插画，画的是第一家庭的宠物，包括小狗们和一匹小马驹。
Bad books by celebrity authors shouldn’t surprise us, even when the subject is an American president. The true mystery in Kennedy’s case is why, 50 years after his death, highly accomplished writers seem unable to fix him on the page.
明星作家们炮制出滥作没什么好值得奇怪的，即使书的主题是一位美国总统。而就肯尼迪这一个案来说，真正使人感到不可思议的是：为什么在他过世50年后，那些学识渊博、著作等身的作者们，还是不能用文字还原他真实的一生。
For some, the trouble has been idolatry. Arthur Schlesinger Jr., who wrote three magisterial volumes on Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal, attempted a similar history in “A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House.” Published in 1965, it has the virtues of immediacy, since Schlesinger, Kennedy’s Harvard contemporary, had been on the White House staff, brought in as court historian. He witnessed many of the events he describes. But in his admiration for Kennedy, he became a chief architect of the Camelot myth and so failed, in the end, to give a persuasive account of the actual presidency.
对于某些人来说，问题在于个人崇拜。小阿瑟·施莱辛格(Arthur Schlesinger Jr.)的著作就是个例子。施莱辛格写了三卷本关于富兰克林罗斯福及其“新政”的恢宏巨作。他以类似的风格写了《约翰．肯尼迪在白宫的一千天》(A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House)。这本书出版于1965年。它的优点是作者非常熟悉他所写的话题。施莱辛格是肯尼迪在哈佛的大学校友。他本人也曾被肯尼迪聘为御用史学家，供职白宫，亲身经历了许多他笔下的事件。但是，出于对肯尼迪的仰慕，施莱辛格成了佳美洛神话的主要构建者，而最终没有对总统肯尼迪做出让人信服的描述。
In 1993, the political journalist Richard Reeves did better. “President Kennedy: Profile of Power” is a minutely detailed chronicle of the Kennedy White House. As a primer on Kennedy’s decision-making, like his handling of the Bay of Pigs invasion and the Cuban missile crisis, the book is fascinating. What’s missing is a picture of Kennedy’s personal life, though Reeves includes a passing mention of Marilyn Monroe being sewn into the $5,000 flesh-colored, skintight dress she wore to celebrate the president’s birthday at Madison Square Garden in 1962. (This is the place to note that Reeves edited “The Kennedy Years,” The New York Times’s own addition to the ever-­expanding Kennedy cosmos, and I wrote the foreword.)
政治记者理查德·里维斯(Richard Reeves)于1993年出版的《肯尼迪总统：权力画像》(President Kennedy: Profile of Power)在这方面比施莱辛格的作品略胜一筹。这本书是肯尼迪时代白宫的详尽编年史，是了解肯尼迪决策过程的主要读本，对他如何处理猪湾事件和古巴导弹危机的描写引人入胜。但它却没有包括多少肯尼迪的私生活，尽管里维斯浮光掠影地写到了1962年玛丽莲梦露穿着那件价值5000美元肉色贴身礼服，参加位于麦迪逊广场花园的总统生日庆典（在这里，我要提一下里维斯编纂了《肯尼迪年代》(The Kennedy Years)。这是《纽约时报》对不断扩充的肯尼迪世界的贡献，而我本人则为此书写了前言）。
Balancing out, or warring with, the Kennedy claque are the Kennedy haters, like Seymour M. Hersh and Garry Wills. In “The Dark Side of Camelot,” Hersh wildly posits connections between the Kennedys and the mob, while Wills, though he offers any number of brilliant insights into Kennedy and his circle of courtiers, fixates on the Kennedy brothers’ (and father’s) sexual escapades in “The Kennedy Imprisonment.”
与肯尼迪的崇拜者们相制衡或是说打笔战的，是一些憎恶肯尼迪的人。西摩·M·赫尔士(Seymour M. Hersh)和加里·威尔斯(Garry Wills)就是其中两位。在《佳美洛的黑暗面》(The Dark Side of Camelot)里，赫尔士对肯尼迪家族与犯罪团伙的联系做出了大胆猜测。而威尔斯的《肯尼迪监禁：关于权力的沉思》(The Kennedy Imprisonment)虽然对肯尼迪和他的亲信臣下们有一些富有洞察力的描写，却对肯尼迪兄弟和他们父亲的性出轨过于关注。
The sum total of this oddly polarized literature is a kind of void. Other presidents, good and bad, have been served well by biographers and historians. We have first-rate books on Jefferson, on Lincoln, on Wilson, on both Roosevelts. Even unloved presidents have received major books: Johnson (Caro) and Richard Nixon (Wills, among others). Kennedy, the odd man out, still seeks his true biographer.
总体来说，在这些两级分化的作品之中是一片空白。别的总统，不管是好是坏，都有传记家和史学家出色的作品。我们有一流的关于杰弗逊、林肯、威尔逊和两个罗斯福的书。那些不那么受人爱戴的总统也有关于他们的有分量的作品（约翰逊有罗伯特·卡罗的《林登·约翰逊时代》；理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)有多人为他立传，威尔斯是其中之一）。肯尼迪这个异类却还在等着真正能理解他的作家为其立传。
Why is this the case? One reason is that even during his lifetime, Kennedy defeated or outwitted the most powerfully analytic and intuitive minds.
为什么会这样？原因之一是在他在世的时候，即使是最有分析能力和洞察力的观察者也很难理解肯尼迪，而这可能是肯尼迪有意为之。
In 1960, Esquire magazine commissioned Norman Mailer’s first major piece of political journalism, asking him to report on the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles that nominated Kennedy. Mailer’s long virtuoso article, “Superman Comes to the Supermarket,” came as close as any book or essay ever has to capturing Kennedy’s essence, though that essence, Mailer candidly acknowledged, was enigmatic. Here was a 43-year-old man whose irony and grace were keyed to the national temper in 1960. Kennedy’s presence, youthful and light, was at once soothing and disruptive, with a touch of brusqueness. He carried himself “with a cool grace which seemed indifferent to applause, his manner somehow similar to the poise of a fine boxer, quick with his hands, neat in his timing, and two feet away from his corner when the bell ended the round.” Finally, however, “there was an elusive detachment to everything he did. One did not have the feeling of a man present in the room with all his weight and all his mind.”
1960年，《君子》(Esquire)杂志向诺曼·梅勒(Norman Mailer)约稿，请他报道在洛杉矶召开的民主党全国大会。这次大会上，肯尼迪获得了民主党总统候选人的提名。这篇大师水准的文章标题为《超级市场里的超人》(Superman Comes to the Supermarket)，是梅勒政治报道方面的第一篇大稿。没有另外一本书或文章比这篇稿子更能抓出肯尼迪的本质了。而梅勒直言不讳地承认，这种本质就是让人捉摸不透。这位43岁的男士所表露出的嘲讽和风度正是1960年美国国民性情的体现：他年轻活泼，让人感到放松，却有时因为唐突使人不知所措。他有“一种沉着冷静的优雅风度，面对赞美喝彩似乎无动于衷，处之泰然。他的举止有点像一位技术娴熟的拳击家，出手快，时机也把握得恰到好处。当铃响提示回合结束时，他离自己的角落不多不少正好两英尺”。但是梅勒却这样总结：“他对自己做过的任何事情都有一种捉摸不定的疏离感，让人感觉他并没有全身心投入。”
Mailer himself doesn’t know “whether to value this elusiveness, or to beware of it. One could be witnessing the fortitude of a superior sensitivity or the detachment of a man who was not quite real to himself.”
梅勒自己也说不清“这种捉摸不定是应该值得尊重还是应该加以防备。要么肯尼迪有着超于常人的敏感与坚定意志，要么就是他善于伪装自己的真情实感”。
And yet Kennedy’s unreality, in Mailer’s view, may have answered the particular craving of a particular historical moment. “It was a hero America needed, a hero central to his time, a man whose personality might suggest contradiction and mysteries which could reach into the alienated circuits of the underground, because only a hero can capture the secret imagination of a people, and so be good for the vitality of his nation.” Those words seemed to prophesy the Kennedy mystique that was to come, reinforced by the whisker-thin victory over Nixon in the general election, by the romantic excitements of Camelot and then by the horror of Dallas.
而在梅勒看来，肯尼迪的这种不真实感可能正契合了特定历史时期的特定要求。“美国需要一位英雄。这位英雄处于时代的中心。他的性格可能充满矛盾和神秘感。这使得处于社会边缘底层的人们也会被他吸引。因为只有英雄才能激发民众秘而不宣的想像力，从而使国家充满活力。”梅勒的这些话好像在预示即将笼罩于肯尼迪周身的那种神秘氛围。而肯尼迪在大选中对尼克松的险胜，佳美洛王朝种种浪漫并激动人心的事件，以及最后发生在达拉斯的惨案都强化了这种神秘气氛。
Fifty years later we are still sifting through the facts of the assassination. The Warren Commission concluded in 1964 that Kennedy had been killed by a lone gunman, Lee Harvey Oswald. Edward Jay Epstein and Mark Lane were among the first writers to challenge that finding, and their skepticism loosed a tide of investigations. The 50th anniversary has washed in some new ones. Among the more ambitious is “A Cruel and Shocking Act: The Secret History of the Kennedy Assassination,” a work of more than 500 pages. Its author, Philip Shenon, a former New York Times reporter, uncovered a new lead, in the person of a heretofore overlooked woman who may have had suspicious ties to the assassin. But when Shenon finds the woman, now in her 70s, in Mexico, she denies having had a relationship with Oswald, and Shenon’s encounters with her prove more mysterious than illuminating.
50年之后，我们还在关于刺杀的线索中寻找真相。1963年为调查肯尼迪刺杀而设的沃伦委员会(The Warren Commission)，在1964年做出了凶手只是李·哈维·奥斯瓦尔德一人的结论。爱德华·杰·厄普斯坦(Edward Jay Epstein)和马克·连恩(Mark Lane)是最早质疑这一结论的作家。他们的质疑引发了一轮调查潮。在肯尼迪遇刺50周年之际，又有一些新的调查公之于众。这其中比较有野心的包括《惊天惨案：肯尼迪刺杀秘史》(A Cruel and Shocking Act: The Secret History of the Kennedy Assassination)。这本500多页作品的作者是前《纽约时报》记者菲利普·谢农(Philip Shenon)。他发现了一个新线索——一位直到目前为止没有被人重视的妇人。该妇人可能和刺客有可疑的联系。但是当谢农在墨西哥找到这位如今已70多岁的妇人时，她却否认和奥斯瓦尔德有关系。谢农和她的会面非但没能发掘出任何真相，反而使事件又增添了一分神秘。
Kennedy’s murder was bound to attract novelists, and some have approached the subject inventively, if with strange results. Stephen King’s “11/22/63,” a best seller published in 2011, takes the form of a time-travel romp involving a high school English teacher who finds romance in Texas while keeping tabs on Oswald. At more than 800 pages, the novel demands a commitment that exceeds its entertainment value.
肯尼迪的遇刺注定会吸引小说家，而他们中有些人在处理这一事件时可谓异想天开，写出了各种奇闻怪谈。斯提芬·金(Stephen King)在2011年出版的畅销小说《11/22/63》（肯尼迪遇刺的日期——译注）运用了时间旅行的形式，讲述一位高中英语教师回到1963年的得州，一边谈着恋爱，一边关注着奥斯瓦尔德的动向。这本小说有800多页，可不是什么轻松读物，要想看完它还真需要点恒心毅力。
I rather like Mailer’s “Oswald’s Tale,” published in 1995. It is, like his earlier masterpiece “The Executioner’s Song,” a work of “faction,” which is Mailer’s term for his hybrid of documented fact and novelistic elaboration. Mailer and his colleague, Lawrence Schiller, spent six months in Russia examining Oswald’s K.G.B. files, and the huge quasi novel that came out of it contains a good deal of engrossing material about Oswald and his Russian wife, Marina, as well as the odd assortment of people the couple mixed with in Texas. Mailer’s narrative skills are prodigious, but in the end he has little to tell us that wasn’t already uncovered by Priscilla Johnson McMillan in “Marina and Lee,” her nonfiction portrait of the troubled couple from 1977. (Mailer properly credits McMillan’s book.)
我倒是挺喜欢梅勒在1995出版的《奥斯瓦尔德的故事》(Oswald’s Tale)。像他早期大作《刽子手之歌》(The Executioner’s Song)一样，这是一部“纪实小说”。梅勒用这个称谓来描述自己纪实与虚构掺半的作品。和他的同事劳伦斯．席勒(Lawrence Schiller)一起，梅勒在俄罗斯花了六个月时间审读奥斯瓦尔德在克格勃的档案。这使得梅勒的“纪实小说”包括了许多关于奥斯瓦尔德和他的苏联妻子玛丽娜，以及这对夫妻在得州交往的一帮奇怪人士的有趣材料。梅勒有天才的叙事功力，但到头来他所能告诉读者的并不比普利希拉·约翰逊·麦克米伦(Priscilla Johnson McMillan)在《玛丽娜和李》(Marina and Lee)中所透露的多多少。麦克米伦的这本纪实文学描绘了这对命运多舛的夫妻在1977年之后的历程（梅勒对引用麦克米伦书中的内容做了规范的注释）。
Most critics seem to think the outstanding example of Kennedy assassination fiction is “Libra,” Don DeLillo’s postmodern novel, published in 1988. The narrative is indeed taut and bracing. But the challenge DeLillo set for himself, to provide readers with “a way of thinking about the assassination without being constrained by half-facts or overwhelmed by possibilities, by the tide of speculation that widens with the years,” exceeds even his lavish gifts.
多数评论家似乎一直认为，有关刺杀肯尼迪事件最出色的虚构作品是唐·德利洛(Don DeLillo)的后现代派小说《天秤座》(Libra)。这本出版于1988年的小说情节紧凑，扣人心弦。但德利洛给自己设下的目标是为读者提供“一种思维方式，不必拘泥于含混的事实，也不必陷于无穷无尽的推论以及逐年增加的猜想”；但这个目标过于宏大，即使才华横溢如同德利洛，也难以实现。
It is telling that DeLillo reverts to the shadowy realm of “half-facts.” Their persistence raises the question of just how many secrets remain, not only about Kennedy’s death but also about his life. And if there are secrets, who is guarding them, and why?
德利洛最终也不得不满足于“含混的事实”，这的确令人深思。肯尼迪之死的确凿实情长期未能浮现，这不禁让人发问究竟还有多少秘密未见天日，不单是刺杀背后的种种隐情，更包括他的生平秘辛。如果仍有秘密，那究竟是谁在保守这些秘密？为了什么？
One clue has been furnished by the historian Nigel Hamilton, whose book “JFK: Reckless Youth,” published in 1992, was the first in a planned multivolume biography that promised to be a valuable addition to the current literature. (He has since dropped the project.) While the book was gossipy, especially on the subject of the young Kennedy’s sexual adventures, Hamilton also provided a vivid and lively account of Kennedy’s successful 1946 campaign for Congress. But when Hamilton began work on the next volumes, he said he came under a sustained barrage by Kennedy loyalists. “The family leaned upon well-known historians such as Arthur Schlesinger Jr. and Doris Goodwin to write protest letters to the press,” Hamilton wrote in 2011 in The Huffington Post. “I was warned that no Kennedy-era official or friend would be ‘allowed’ to speak to me for my proposed sequel.”
史学家奈吉尔·汉密尔顿(Nigel Hamilton)提供了一条线索。汉密尔顿的著作《肯尼迪：激情年代》(JFK: Reckless Youth) 出版于1992年。作者本来计划撰写一部多卷本的肯尼迪传记，为现有的肯尼迪文献添上有价值的一笔（汉密尔顿后来放弃了这一计划）。而《激情年代》是这个系列的第一卷。此书虽然有些家长里短，特别是涉及肯尼迪年轻时的两性关系部分，但是汉密尔顿生动描绘了肯尼迪1946年成功竞选国会议员的经历。当他准备继续后面几卷的写作时，作者说他受到了来自肯尼迪忠党的顽固阻挠。在一篇2011年发表于《郝芬顿邮报》(The Huffington Post)的文章中，汉密尔顿写道：“肯尼迪家族向一些著名的史学家施压，比如小阿瑟·施莱辛格和多丽丝·古德温(Doris Goodwin)，委托他们在媒体发表抗议信。我被警告：任何一位肯尼迪时代的官员和他的朋友都不会被‘允许’就我计划中的下一卷书接受采访。”
Kennedy may have enjoyed the company of writers, but the long history of secrecy and mythmaking has surely contributed to the paucity of good books. The Kennedys — especially Jackie and Bobby — were notoriously hard on authors whose books they didn’t like. And they enlisted Schlesinger, Theodore Sorensen and other intimates to act as a kind of history police, not only withholding primary materials but also bullying writers. A prominent historian recently told me he was once warned by Schlesinger, with whom he had been friendly, that because he had invited Hamilton to a meeting of the American Historical Association he might himself be banished from the organization. In recent years, the protective seal seems to have loosened. The Kennedy family, including Edward Kennedy and his sister Jean Kennedy Smith, gave unfettered access to their father’s papers to David Nasaw, the author of “The Patriarch,” a well-received biography of Joseph P. Kennedy that appeared last year.
虽然肯尼迪有许多作家朋友，但是长期以来，他的生平充满秘密，又有太多人为他编织神话。这些理所当然地导致了杰作匮缺。如果谁写出了不讨他们喜欢的书，肯尼迪家族的人——尤其是杰姬（Jackie，杰奎琳·肯尼迪，肯尼迪夫人——译注）和鲍比（Bobby，罗伯特·肯尼迪，肯尼迪的弟弟——译注）——出了名地会对作者苛刻。他们招募了施莱辛格、西奥多·索伦森（Theodore Sorensen，作家、律师、肯尼迪政府顾问——译注）和其他一些与肯尼迪家族关系密切的人士充当他们的“历史警察”。这些人不但拒绝透露分享重要材料，还欺凌恐吓别的作家。一位有名的史学家最近告诉我，施莱辛格曾经与他关系不错，但有一次警告他说，因为他邀请了汉密尔顿出席美国历史协会的一次会议，他自己有可能会被驱逐出会。近些年来，封口令似乎松动了一点。肯尼迪家族，包括爱德华·肯尼迪（Edward Kennedy，肯尼迪最小的弟弟——译注）和他的妹妹简·肯尼迪·史密斯(Jean Kennedy Smith)，把他们父亲的文件毫无保留地开放给大卫·纳索(David Nasaw)查阅。纳索去年出版了《族长》(The Patriarch)，这本约瑟夫·帕特里克·肯尼迪(Joseph P. Kennedy)的传记反响甚佳。
Caroline Kennedy has been even more open to the claims of history. She herself was involved in the publication of two books and the release of accompanying tapes. One of them, “Jacqueline Kennedy: Historic Conversations on Life With John F. Kennedy,” contains the transcripts of the first lady’s interviews about her husband with Schlesinger, conducted in 1964 but kept secret until 2011. They are revealing and mesmerizing. The other, “Listening In,” offers White House conversations captured in a secretly installed taping system in the Oval Office. Since Kennedy controlled the device, these conversations are more guarded, but the book includes at least one memorable moment, when the president hilariously loses his temper over unflattering press about the $5,000 cost of Mrs. Kennedy’s hospital maternity suite — “Are they crazy up there? Now you know what that’s gonna do? Any congressman is going to get up and say, ‘Christ, if they can throw $5,000 away on this, let’s cut ’em another billion dollars.’ You just sank the Air Force budget!”
而肯尼迪的小女儿卡罗琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)对于历史评述的心态更为开放。她本人就参与了两本书和及相关录音带的出版发行。这其中之一，《杰奎琳肯尼迪：与肯尼迪就生活的历史性对话》(Jacqueline Kennedy: Historic Conversations on Life With John F. Kennedy)，包括了第一夫人于1964年接受施莱辛格关于她丈夫的采访记录。这些记录披露了许多引人入胜的细节，直到2011年才被公之于众。另一本书《倾听》(Listening In)，则披露了秘密装置在椭圆办公室里一个录音系统录下的对话。由于肯尼迪本人掌控录音系统，录下的对话都比较谨慎。但是这本书包括了至少一个让人难忘的时刻。当媒体批评肯尼迪夫人住院的产妇套间花费了5000美元时，肯尼迪大发雷霆：“他们（媒体）疯了吗？你知道这意味着什么吗？现在任何一个国会议员都会站出来说：‘天哪，如果他们居然为了这个花了5000美元，我们不如把他们的预算再砍掉10亿。’空军的预算就这么没了！”如今读来，他的怒气让人捧腹。
The most disturbing case of the family’s attempts to control history came early on, and it involved William Manchester, the historian chosen by the Kennedys a few weeks after the assassination to write the authorized account, “The Death of a President.” Manchester was selected because of a previous, and fawning, book he had written about Kennedy, “Portrait of a President.” (In a bizarre twist, this was one of the books Lee Harvey Oswald checked out of a New Orleans public library just months before the assassination.) Manchester was given sole access to almost all the president’s men as well as to his widow and virtually every principal figure. (Lyndon Johnson submitted answers in writing through his staff.) It seemed the ideal arrangement — until Manchester presented a manuscript to the Kennedys.
在肯尼迪家族所有控制历史著述的企图中，最令人不安的案例发生在史学家威廉姆·曼彻斯特(William Manchester)身上。在肯尼迪遇刺后的几个星期，肯尼迪家族授权委托曼彻斯特写了《总统之死》(The Death of a President)。曼彻斯特被选中的原因是他之前写的了一本阿谀奉承肯尼迪的书《总统肖像》（Portrait of a President，奥斯瓦尔德于行刺前几个月从新奥尔良的一家图书馆里借阅了此书，这可真是世事难料）。曼彻斯特被允许独家采访所有总统的下属、遗孀和几乎每一个关键人物（林登·约翰逊通过他的手下提供了一份书面采访回答）。看上去这是一个理想的安排——直到曼彻斯特向肯尼迪家族呈交了手稿。
In a gripping piece from his 1976 collection of essays, “Controversy,” Manchester described what happened next. First there were the many insertions and deletions made by various Kennedy minions, who applied so much pressure that Manchester became a nervous wreck. An especially low point came when Robert Kennedy hunted Manchester down in a New York hotel room and banged on the door, demanding to be let in to argue for still more changes. Next, Jackie Kennedy, who had not bothered to read the manuscript, accepted the view of her factotums that many of its details, like the fact that she carried cigarettes in her purse, were too personal. Further angered by the $665,000 Manchester had received from Look magazine for serial rights, Mrs. Kennedy went to court to enjoin the author from publishing the book. Eventually, she settled out of court and finally read “The Death of a President” when it was published in 1967. She deemed it “fascinating.”
曼彻斯特在1976年出版的文选集《争论》(Controversy) 中，有一篇文章令人难以释卷。曼彻斯特在文中描述了如下情形：肯尼迪的幕僚们对文稿进行了多处的增改删除。这些人对曼彻斯特施加了很大的压力，使他精神崩溃。罗伯特·肯尼迪甚至有一次追踪曼彻斯特到一家纽约旅馆，猛敲房门，要求作者做出更多的修改。更有甚者，杰姬·肯尼迪根本就没有花时间读文稿，但听信了下属的一面之词，认为文稿中许多细节太过私人，比如她在钱包里放香烟等等。当《视觉》(Look)杂志（1937到1971年间美国出版的一份双周图片杂志——译注）以66.5万美元从曼彻斯特那儿购得了该书的连载权后，杰姬更为愤怒。她把曼彻斯特告到了法庭，试图禁止他出版该书。最后杰姬和曼彻斯特庭外和解。杰姬最终读到了1967年出版的《总统之死》，她说这本书“非常有趣”。
Nevertheless, the Kennedy family, which controlled publication rights to “The Death of a President,” allowed it to go out of print, and for a number of years copies could be found only online or at rummage sales. The good news, maybe the best, of the 50th anniversary is that Little, Brown has now reissued paperback and e-book editions.
尽管如此，控制着《总统之死》一书出版权的肯尼迪家族在此书售罄后并未再版。许多年来，这本书只能在网上二手书店，或是在拍卖旧物的时候买到。好消息是，在肯尼迪遇刺50周年之际，利特尔·布朗出版社(Little, Brown)将再版此书的平装本和电子版。
It’s good news because, remarkably, and against all odds, Manchester (who died in 2004) wrote an extraordinary book. There are obvious defects. Predictably, he blares the trumpets of Camelot, and he has a weakness for melodrama. It’s hard to believe, even at the time of Kennedy’s murder, that to the world it was “as though the Axis powers had surrendered and Adolf Hitler and Franklin Roosevelt had died in the hours between noon and midafternoon in Washington of a single day in 1945.” But these excesses don’t really matter, thanks to Manchester’s vivid reporting, masterly narrative and authentically poetic touches.
此书的再版是好消息，这是因为曼彻斯特（他于2004年去世）顶住种种压力困难写了一本出类拔萃的书。书中确有明显的瑕疵：例如，他为佳美洛王朝大唱颂歌，且时有略嫌戏剧性的夸张。比如他写道，肯尼迪之死对全世界来说“如同轴心国投降之后，阿道夫·希特勒和富兰克林·罗斯福在1945年某天午后几个小时之内于华盛顿相继死亡”。即使在肯尼迪遇刺那会儿，这般描述恐怕也难以服人。但与曼彻斯特的生动报道、高超的叙事技巧和真情实感的诗意语言相比，上述夸张也显得无足轻重。
It is in small, quiet scenes that Manchester’s chronicle accumulates its greatest force. When it is time for Dave Powers, the slain president’s aide and sidekick, to pick out the clothes Kennedy will wear to his grave, he selects from eight suits and four pairs of shoes brought out by Kennedy’s valet, George Thomas. Powers settles on a blue-gray suit, black shoes and “a blue tie with a slight pattern of light dots.” An embroidered “JFK” on the white silk shirt is hidden from view. The valet remembered that Kennedy’s “dislike of flamboyant monograms had extended to handkerchiefs,” Manchester writes. The president “had carefully folded them so that the initials would not show, and Thomas did it for him now, slipping the handkerchief into his coat pocket.”
曼彻斯特擅长通过小而沉默的场景描写给读者带来强烈的震撼。例如，肯尼迪遇刺后，他的跟班戴夫·鲍尔斯(Dave Powers)要为总统挑选入葬的寿衣，肯尼迪的贴身男仆乔治·汤马斯(George Thomas)拿出了八套西装、四双鞋子。鲍尔斯最终选定了一套蓝灰色的西装和黑色的皮鞋，以及一条“蓝色略带浅色点状图案的领带”。白色丝质衬衫上绣着的“JFK”字样被上衣遮住。曼彻斯特写道，男仆想起了总统“一向厌恶铺张炫耀的字母组合，甚至包括手帕”。总统生前“总是小心地把手帕叠起，遮住自己名字的缩写。如今，汤马斯替他同样叠起手帕，放进胸前的小口袋”。
Of all that has been written and that will be read on this 50th anniversary, it is the last paragraphs of “The Death of a President” that deserve to stand out from everything else. Manchester describes viewing the bloodstained pink suit Jackie Kennedy wore on Nov. 22, 1963, which had since been stowed in a Georgetown attic:
在肯尼迪遇刺50周年之际，在所有相关著述中，《总统之死》一书的最后几段不愧最令人难忘。曼彻斯特如此描述第一夫人杰姬·肯尼迪那条在1963年11月22日的刺杀事件中浸染血污的粉色套装，这套裙装如今被藏在乔治敦一座宅子的阁楼里：
Unknown to her, the clothes Mrs. Kennedy wore into the bright midday glare of Dallas lie in an attic not far from 3017 N Street. In Bethesda that night those closest to her had vowed that from the moment she shed them she should never see them again. She hasn’t. Yet they are still there, in one of two long brown paper cartons thrust between roof rafters. The first is marked “September 12, 1953,” the date of her marriage; it contains her wedding gown. The block-printed label on the other is “Worn by Jackie, November 22, 1963.” Inside, neatly arranged, are the pink wool suit, the black shift, the low-heeled shoes and, wrapped in a white towel, the stockings. Were the box to be opened by an intruder from some land so remote that the name, the date and photographs of the ensemble had not been published and republished until they had been graven upon his memory, he might conclude that these were merely stylish garments which had passed out of fashion and which, because they were associated with some pleasant occasion, had not been discarded.
肯尼迪夫人尚不知晓，她当天在达拉斯正午的艳阳下身穿的那套裙装，如今仍存放在距离N街3017号不远的一座房子的阁楼里。当天晚上在贝塞斯达（肯尼迪遇刺之后尸体被送到马里兰州贝塞斯达海军医院进行尸检——译注），她身边的亲信向她保证，她脱下后就再也不会见到这套衣服。她的确再未见到。但衣服仍留着，被装在一个长长的棕色纸盒内，塞在阁楼里的椽子之间。旁边另外一个纸盒上标注着“1953年9月12日”，那是她结婚的日期，纸盒内装着她的结婚礼服。而这个盒子上贴着标签，用大写字母印着“1963年11月22日，杰姬穿”。盒子内，整齐叠放着那套粉色的羊毛套裙，黑色衬衣和那双低跟鞋，她的丝袜则被包在白色的毛巾里。如果某天有人闯入，打开了这个盒子——假设此人来自遥远的国度，与刺杀事件相关的这些人名、日期和被重印无数次的照片尚未铭刻在他的脑海中——他可能判断这些不过是早已过时的服饰，因为当年主人穿着它们出席一个愉快的场合而被保存至今。
If the trespasser looked closer, however, he would be momentarily baffled. The memento of a happy time would be cleaned before storing. Obviously this costume has not been. There are ugly splotches along the front and hem of the skirt. The handbag’s leather and the inside of each shoe are caked dark red. And the stockings are quite odd. Once the same substance streaked them in mad scribbly patterns, but time and the sheerness of the fabric have altered it. The rusty clots have flaked off; they lie in tiny brittle grains on the nap of the towel. Examining them closely, the intruder would see his error. This clothing, he would perceive, had not been kept out of sentiment. He would realize that it had been worn by a slender young woman who had met with some dreadful accident. He might ponder whether she had survived. He might even wonder who had been to blame.
但是，如果闯入者仔细观察，会感到一时困惑。愉快场合的纪念物本该先清理干净再保存起来，但这套衣装显然没清理过。裙装的前身和下摆密布着难看的污痕，手袋的皮子和每只鞋的内侧都有暗红色污物，已经硬结开裂。那双丝袜也很奇怪。同样的污物曾经泼洒在丝袜上，形成的图案像是疯子的涂鸦，但由于时日长久和丝袜的单薄质地，这些污物已经干结脱落成微小易碎的颗粒沾在毛巾内侧。再仔细查看，闯入者会恍然大悟：这套衣装并非因为怀旧而保存下来；当年穿着这套衣服的窈窕女子遭遇了某种不测。他或许会考虑这位女子是否得以幸存，他甚至可能猜测究竟是谁下此毒手。
Unfortunately, the tapes of Manchester’s two five-hour interviews with Jackie Kennedy, who seems to have regretted her frankness, remain under seal at the Kennedy Library until 2067. This is a final sadness for a reader sifting through these many books. Taken together, they tell us all too little about this president, now gone 50 years, who remains as elusive in death as he was in life.
不幸的是，记录着曼彻斯特与杰姬·肯尼迪两次一共长达十个小时采访的数盘磁带，仍旧封存于肯尼迪图书馆，2067年才能解封。杰姬似乎曾经后悔自己对曼彻斯特过于直率。对于在有关肯尼迪的浩瀚书海中畅游的读者而言，这实为一大憾事。读过所有这些文字记录，我们仍对这位总统所知甚少。肯尼迪生前是个谜，死后50年仍旧是个谜。