“The Sound of Music,” the movie, turns 50 this year, as popular as ever, a bedrock memory of untold millions of childhoods. Mine, for sure. Some far-off day, when neural engineers do a digital download of my dying brain, they will find, way back with the oldest grudges and PIN numbers, the “Sound of Music” soundtrack, every line and rhyme. She climbs a tree and scrapes her knee. When the dog bites. Yodel-ay-hee-hoo.
《音乐之声》(The Sound of Music)今年迎来50岁的生日，这部盛行不衰的电影是无数人童年最深处的回忆。当然也包括我在内。在遥远的将来，当神经系统工程师从我枯萎的大脑里下载数字内容时，他们会发现和最久远的积怨与用户密码在一起的，还有《音乐之声》的原声，每句台词每个韵脚都一字不差。她会爬树伤了膝盖。当狗咬时。哦嘞依哦(Yodel-ay-hee-hoo)（《音乐之声》插曲《玛丽亚》《我最喜爱的东西》《孤独的牧羊人》中的歌词——译注）。
The movie is returning to theaters for two days in April, and no doubt many in middle age will go, to visit an old friend who they hope hasn’t aged a bit.
这部电影于4月的两天重映，毫无疑问，许多中年人会去影院看望这个他们希望青春永驻的老朋友。
 A few may be disappointed. “The Sound of Music” is a great movie, but it isn’t a very good one. Critics in 1965 recoiled from its operetta schmaltz, its wooden acting, the sentimental goop poured all over what was already considered one of the sappier Rodgers and Hammerstein musicals. They were right, even though the movie’s many devotees will disagree, now and forever.
有些人则可能会失望。《音乐之声》是一部伟大的电影，却不是一部优秀的作品。1965年的影评家们不敢苟同其中轻歌剧的感伤主义，呆板僵硬的表演，以及这部罗杰斯(Rodgers)和汉默斯坦(Hammerstein)公认的抒情之作所引发铺天盖地的多愁善感。他们是对的，虽然许多电影的拥趸永远不会认同。
Don’t get me wrong — I love the movie and still enjoy making fun of it. But I often wonder why it has never been reimagined, rescued from its reputation, reborn as a movie to enjoy for reasons other than nostalgia or camp.
别误会我——我爱这部电影，也仍然喜欢拿它开玩笑。但我奇怪的是为什么还没有人来重新创作这部片子，让它不再被自己的声誉所累，让它焕然新生，成为一部出了怀旧和野营之外仍有可爱之处的影片。
I had this thought after seeing “South Pacific” in its first Broadway revival; the director, Bartlett Sher, shook off the dated racial themes and left it radically refreshed. I remember, too, how the director Trevor Nunn, with Hugh Jackman as Curly, darkened “Oklahoma!” and made it almost terrifying.
这个念头产生于我看完百老汇重演的《南太平洋》(South Pacific)后，导演巴特里•西尔(Bartlett Sher)摆脱了过时的种族题材，令这部音乐剧脱胎换骨。我也记得导演崔佛·纳恩(Trevor Nunn)和饰演克理的休•杰克曼(Hugh Jackman)如何将《俄克拉荷马》(Oklahoma!)演绎得更加阴暗，甚至令人生惧。
Shouldn’t it be possible, without total demolition, to respectfully upend everyone’s idea of “The Sound of Music”? To unearth cruelty and carnality, honesty and deep feeling, all the things that lie buried under all that Salzburg sunshine and the radiance of Julie Andrews?
有没有可能在避免破坏和尊重原作的前提下，颠覆人们对《音乐之声》的认识——发掘出掩盖在萨尔兹堡的阳光和朱莉·安德鲁斯(Julie Andrews)的光芒下的残酷、肉欲、坦诚和深情？
In other words: Is this story really as one-dimensional as we think it is?
换句话说，这个故事真的如我们所想的那么简单吗？
Here is Maria, a girl supposedly so wild and unfit for the convent that one nun suggests tying a cowbell on her neck. Another supplies the perfect tag line: “She’s a wonderful girl — some of the time.” There is the captain, who has seven (seven!) children. He also has issues, as we see from the moment he meets Maria and tells her he wants her out of that dress.
首先是玛丽亚(Maria)，一个任性叛逆、与修道院格格不入的女孩，一个修女甚至建议给她的脖子系上牛铃。另一个修女则给出了那句精妙的结语：“她是个好女孩——有的时候。”还有带着七个（七个！）孩子的海军上校，他也有些问题，从他邂逅玛丽亚的时候就能看出，他要她脱掉那条裙子。
Rodgers and Hammerstein were no babes on Broadway. Their shows often have secondary couples who, unlike the prim leads, couple from the get-go. In “Oklahoma!,” Ado Annie just cain’t say no. “South Pacific” has Lieutenant Cable and young Liat, who meet and mate in about a minute. In “The Sound of Music,” it’s the daughter Liesl and Rolf, the Nazi telegram boy, whose name sounds like what I want to do whenever he’s on the screen. Their duet, in a gazebo in a thunderstorm, is all about sex and crossed signals. She’s ready; he’s an idiot. Later, she sneaks into the house, soaked, and Maria lies to cover for her.
罗杰斯和汉默斯坦可不是第一天在百老汇混。他们的戏中常有作绿叶衬托的情侣，从开始就在一起，不像一本正经的男女主角。在《俄克拉荷马》中，“不会说不”的爱多·安妮(Ado Annie)不能拒绝任何一个男人；《南太平洋》里的克伯中尉(Lieutenant Cable)和年轻的丽阿特(Liat)则在约一分钟里就相遇并成功牵手。在《音乐之声》中，这对配角是上校的女儿丽莎(Liesl)和罗尔夫(Rolf)，一个每次出现在屏幕上都让我想要大笑的纳粹电报员。他们在雷雨交加中的二重唱都是关于性和误解：她心甘情愿，他则是个白痴。稍后，她悄悄溜进家中，玛丽亚以谎言为她掩护。
“The Sound of Music” is never going to be “Spring Awakening,” the rock musical about sex-addled 19th-century German adolescents. But there is a lot that isn’t saccharine in the source material: devotion and desolation, spiritual fervor and erotic longing. A lonely captain who dumps his rich girlfriend for the babysitter. All that, plus lusty goatherds. And Nazis!
《音乐之声》永远不可能成为《春之觉醒》(Spring Awakening)，一部讲述19世纪德国青少年靡乱放纵的摇滚音乐剧。但《音乐之声》的原始材料里也有许多不那么甜美的成分：忠诚和孤寂，宗教狂热和性欲。一个寂寞的上校为了一个保姆甩掉白富美女友。以上种种，还有健壮的牧羊人，以及纳粹！
Poor Ms. Andrews has been lugging this rucksack over the Alps for 50 years. It’s time for another Maria to take it from here. What’s Lady Gaga doing?
可怜的安德鲁斯小姐已经在阿尔卑斯山上拖了50年的背包，是时候交给另一个玛丽亚了。看看女神卡卡在做什么（在87届奥斯卡颁奖典礼上，美国歌手Lady Gaga献唱向《音乐之声》致敬——译注）。