With all the autographed presidential portraits hanging in the board room (“For Iphigene Ochs, with regards of Theodore Roosevelt”), you might think The Times was a Grand Central Terminal for the nation’s chief executives.
因为董事会会议室的墙上挂着很多总统亲自签名的肖像照（比如“致伊菲吉妮·奥奇[Iphigene Ochs]，西奥多·罗斯福[Theodore Roosevelt]敬上”），你可能会认为时报是美国国家元首的中央车站(Grand Central Terminal)。
But on Tuesday, Donald J. Trump became the first president-elect to visit the headquarters of The New York Times, to the best of anyone’s recollection.
但是，据大家尽力回忆，周二，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)成为首位访问《纽约时报》总部的候任总统。
“I have a distinct memory of arguing with Ronald Reagan at a Times lunch, but I suspect that was while he was a candidate for president,” Max Frankel, a former executive editor and former editor of the editorial page, said.
“我清楚地记得与罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)在《时报》的午餐会上辩论，但我想当时他只是总统候选人，”前主编、前社论版主编马克斯· 弗兰克尔(Max Frankel)说。
Al Gore and Joseph R. Biden Jr. came to The Times as vice presidents, Albert DeVivo, the senior security supervisor, recalled. But in his three decades at The Times, no incumbent United States president has visited.
《时报》的高级安保主管阿尔伯特· 德维沃(Albert DeVivo)回忆说，阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)和小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)任副总统期间来过《时报》。不过，他在这里工作的30年间，没有一位在任美国总统访问过《时报》。
In fact, 52 years have passed since the first (and last) sitting president paid a call on The Times.
事实上，第一位（也是上一位）在任总统访问《时报》发生在52年前。
On Feb. 6, 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson attended a two-hour lunch at 229 West 43rd Street, then the newspaper’s headquarters, as the guest of Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the publisher, and his father, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the chairman.
1964年2月6日，林登·B·约翰逊总统(Lyndon B. Johnson)在《时报》当时的总部西43街229号参加了两个小时的午餐会。午餐会的主人是当时的出版人阿瑟·奥克斯·苏兹伯格(Arthur Ochs Sulzberger)以及他的父亲、董事会主席阿瑟·海斯·苏兹伯格(Arthur Hays Sulzberger)。
Both publisher and president were new to their jobs when they dined together that day. Mr. Sulzberger had been named publisher of The Times on June 20, 1963, after the death of Orvil E. Dryfoos. Mr. Johnson succeeded to the presidency on Nov. 22, 1963, after President John F. Kennedy was assassinated.
那天，这位出版人和这位总统共进午餐时，都是刚接手自己的职位。1963年6月20日，奥维尔·E· 德赖富斯(Orvil E. Dryfoos)去世后，苏兹伯格被任命为《时报》的出版人。1963年11月22日，约翰·F·肯尼迪总统(John F. Kennedy)被刺杀后，约翰逊接任总统职位。
Their meeting gave them a chance to take one another’s measure, over shrimp cocktail, prime rib of beef, mashed potatoes, broccoli in butter sauce, fresh strawberries and pineapple, cookies and coffee.
那次会议令他们有机会就着鸡尾冷虾、上等肋条牛肉、土豆泥、黄油西兰花、新鲜的草莓和菠萝、饼干和咖啡，增加对彼此的了解。
What Mr. Johnson and Mr. Sulzberger said to each another, however, is lost to history.
不过，约翰逊和苏兹伯格究竟说了什么，已经遗失在历史中。
“The serious conversation was, of course, entirely off the record, as it always is at the publisher’s table,” Clifton Daniel, the assistant managing editor, wrote about the lunch for Times Talk, the newspaper’s house organ. (In contrast, the lunchtime meeting with Mr. Trump was on the record.)
“严肃谈话当然完全不会记录在案，在出版人的餐桌上一向如此，”为本报内刊《时报谈话》(Times Talk)撰写此次午餐会情况的助理主编克利夫顿·丹尼尔(Clifton Daniel)说（与特朗普的午餐会则是记录在案）。
Security was then, as now, a big concern. More than 100 Secret Service agents, detectives, police officers and security guards were stationed around the 43rd Street plant. Critical posts included electrical vaults, ventilating ducts, the attic over the 14th-floor board room and the rooftop above the 11th-floor executive dining room.
当时的安保工作和现在一样是个重要问题。一百多名特勤、侦探、警察和安保人员驻扎在43街大楼的周围。关键岗哨包括配电室、通风管道、14层董事会会议室上方的阁楼，以及11层行政餐厅的屋顶。
Westinghouse mechanics took control of the automatic elevators to ensure they would bypass the 11th and 14th floors during Mr. Johnson’s visit. The Secret Service directed that the floral arrangement be placed in a transparent glass container, so that it would be evident if a bomb had been planted in the vase.
西屋电气(Westinghouse)的机械师们控制自动电梯，确保在约翰逊访问期间，电梯不会在11层和14层停靠。特勤人员指示，鲜花必须放在透明玻璃容器内，这样花瓶中若是放有炸弹，会很明显。
At 1:10 p.m., 10 patrol cars and the presidential limousine roared down 43rd Street. The publisher was ready, umbrella raised against a cold rain. Mr. Johnson stepped out of his car, coatless. (The cultivated Mr. Daniel noted that the president was attired in a “fresh white shirt with a tab collar, a figured gray tie, pearl cuff links and a dark suit.”) Crowds were held at bay about 50 feet from the entrance. Mr. Johnson stepped through a side door rather than the central revolving doors, because the Secret Service did not want to take the chance of his getting stuck.
下午1点10分 , 10辆巡逻车和总统的座驾轰鸣着来到43街。出版人已在那里等候，他举着伞，抵挡冷雨。约翰逊走出轿车，没有穿大衣（文雅的丹尼尔指出，当时总统穿着“带领卡的雪白衬衫，戴着印有花纹的灰色领带和珍珠袖扣，穿着深色西装”）。人群被挡在离入口约50英尺外的地方。约翰逊没有走中间的旋转门，而走了侧门，因为特勤人员不想让总统承担被卡住的风险。
Mr. Sulzberger escorted the president to the board room, where his 72-year-old father, greatly diminished by two strokes, waited in a wheelchair. The older Mr. Sulzberger stood up to greet Mr. Johnson, telling him that he had come into the office for the first time in months just for this occasion. Then the group went down to lunch.
苏兹伯格陪同总统来到董事会会议室，他72岁的父亲在那里的轮椅上等候。他因两次中风而身体虚弱。老苏兹伯格站起来迎接约翰逊，说这是他数月来第一次到办公室，就是为了这次碰面。然后，一行人下楼共进午餐。
Before President Johnson could take his seat — a custom extra-wide, extra-low, folding upholstered chair — he was called to a hotline telephone, labeled simply “White House,” that had been installed at The Times that morning.
在约翰逊总统坐下之前，他被叫去接听了一通热线电话，那部电话是当天早上安装在《时报》的，上面简单地贴有“白宫”标签。他的座椅是一把专门定制的非常宽也非常矮、可折叠的软垫座椅。
Fresh information was arriving about the latest crisis in Cuba, where the Castro regime had shut off the water supply to the Guantánamo Bay naval base. The Times executives stood at their places while Mr. Johnson finished the call. Jack Valenti, the president’s special assistant, urged the older Mr. Sulzberger to make himself comfortable.
电话是关于古巴危机的最新进展，卡斯特罗政权切断了关塔那摩湾海军基地的供水。 约翰逊先生放下电话的时候，《时报》的高管们仍然站在原地。 总统特别助理杰克·瓦伦蒂(Jack Valenti)赶紧让老苏兹伯格无需多礼。
“I am so pleased to be able to stand up that I want to show I can do it,” Mr. Sulzberger said.
“我很高兴在我想要表现自己能站立起来的时候，还能做得到，”苏兹伯格说道。
After lunch, the president seemed in no hurry to go. He walked into the pantry to shake hands with everyone on duty. He took another telephone call and came back to the dining room with the latest news from Cuba. He greeted each of the telephone operators on the 11th-floor switchboard, who had been watching and waving from behind a glass door.
午餐过后，总统似乎并不急着离去。他走进配餐室，跟当班的工作人员一一握手。他又接了一个电话，然后带着古巴的最新消息回到餐厅。他在11楼的总机室问候了每一位接线员，众人此前一直在玻璃门后围观、挥手。
Downstairs, instead of getting back into his limousine, Mr. Johnson surprised his security detail by striding over to shake hands with a sodden but enthusiastic crowd of onlookers. As he did so, the president made the mistake of crossing directly in front of Edith Evans Asbury, a Times reporter who was never to be trifled with. Ever.
到了楼下，约翰逊出乎安保人员的预料，没有回到自己的座驾，而是大步走向一群虽被雨水淋湿却热情不减的围观民众，跟他们握手。在做这件事的时候，总统犯了一个错误，他径直从伊迪丝·埃文斯·阿斯伯里(Edith Evans Asbury)面前走了过去，这位《时报》记者可是怠慢不得的。任何时候都不行。
“What are you trying to do?” she demanded. “Scare everybody?”
“你要干嘛？”她质问道。“是要吓唬大家吗？”
Today, Mr. Johnson keeps company with 18 other presidents in photographic portraits around the 16th-floor board room at 620 Eighth Avenue. Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt were looking over Mr. Trump’s shoulders on Tuesday, as were Hubert Humphrey, Andrew Carnegie, Theodor Herzl, Thomas Alva Edison, Chiang Kai-shek, Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks, Viscountess Astor and the Shah of Iran.
今天，约翰逊和其他18位总统的照片就挂在第八大道620号16楼董事会会议室的墙壁上。周二的时候，伍德罗·威尔逊 (Woodrow Wilson)和富兰克林·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)的目光就一直落在特朗普的肩头，此外还有休伯特·汉弗莱(Hubert Humphrey)、安德鲁·卡内基(Andrew Carnegie)、西奥多·赫茨尔(Theodor Herzl)、托马斯·爱迪生(Thomas Alva Edison)、蒋介石、玛丽·毕克馥(Mary Pickford)和道格拉斯·费尔班克斯(Douglas Fairbanks)、阿斯特子爵夫人(Viscountess Astor)和伊朗国王巴列维(Shah of Iran)。
Seated before them, the president-elect did not disguise his ambivalence about The Times.
坐在他们面前，这位候任总统并没有掩饰他对《时报》的矛盾态度。
“Well, I do read it,” he said. “Unfortunately. I would have lived about 20 years longer if I didn’t.”
“嗯，我的确读这份报纸，”他说。“很不幸。如果不读它，我大概可以多活20年。”
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the chairman and publisher, called Mr. Trump’s attention to a similar sentiment in an inscription from President Richard M. Nixon, whose administration tried unsuccessfully to restrain the printing of the Pentagon Papers:
《时报》出版人和董事会主席小阿瑟·苏兹伯格提请特朗普注意，尼克松总统也曾在一次题词中流露出类似的情绪，他的政府曾试图阻止《纽约时报》公开发表五角大楼文件(Pentagon Papers)，却没能成功。
“To the New York Times / Some read it and like it / Some read it and don’t like it / But everybody reads it.”
“至《纽约时报》/有人读了喜欢/有人读了不喜欢/但大家都读它。”