SHANGHAI — “Mickey Maose” has officially arrived.
上海——“米毛鼠”正式亮相。
In a rain-dampened ceremony attended by Chinese dignitaries, the Walt Disney Company on Thursday opened its $5.5 billion Shanghai Disney Resort, a theme park and hotel complex that represents a hard-fought victory in China for the singularly American entertainment conglomerate. “Our dream comes true,” a beaming Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive, said in Mandarin at the ceremony’s start.
周四，在有中国政要出席的仪式上，华特·迪士尼公司(The Walt Disney Company)在雨中为上海迪士尼度假区揭幕。这座主题乐园耗资55亿美元打造，设有酒店区，代表了这家美国风味十足的娱乐集团在中国经过辛苦努力获得的成果。“我们梦想成真了，”开业仪式开始时，迪士尼的首席执行官罗伯特·A·艾格(Robert A. Iger)喜气洋洋地用汉语说。
The park — Disney’s first on the Chinese mainland — was held up as nothing less than a historic symbol of United States-China relations. Mr. Iger read aloud a letter sent by President Obama that heralded the resort as capturing “the promise of our bilateral relationship.” In a letter of his own, China’s president, Xi Jinping, called the project, which took nearly two years of bruising negotiations to realize, a sign of China’s “commitment to cross-cultural cooperation and our innovation mentality in the new era.”
这是迪士尼在中国大陆修建的第一座乐园，被视为中美关系的一个具有历史意义的标志。艾格朗读了奥巴马总统的贺信，信中称这座乐园展示了“我们双边关系的潜质”。中国国家主席习近平的贺信则称，这个经过近两年艰苦谈判的项目展现了“跨越文化的合作精神和顺应时代的创新思维”。
On a lighter note, Wang Yang, one of China’s vice premiers, stood onstage in front of the park’s lavish storybook castle and joked that the rain was a sign of good luck — the “rain of U.S. dollars and RMB,” he said, referring to China’s currency, the renminbi. Disney owns 43 percent of the resort, with the majority stake held by a Chinese state-controlled consortium.
仪式中也有不那么一本正经的时刻：在华丽的奇幻城堡前，国务院副总理汪洋站在舞台上打趣，表示雨是好运的征兆——“下的是美元和人民币，”他说。迪士尼拥有该度假区43%的股份，而国有控股的一个中国财团拥有多数股份。
With that, fireworks exploded, fountains danced and jubilant performers dressed as Disney princesses took to the stage as more than 30 dancers and flag twirlers frolicked.
焰火点燃，喷泉涌出，打扮成迪士尼公主的演员兴高采烈地走上舞台，30多名舞者和旗手欢腾起舞。
It was a discordant scene with happenings elsewhere in the Disney empire. Mr. Iger was awakened at 4 a.m. on Thursday with the news that the authorities in Florida had found the body of a toddler, Lane Graves, who had been dragged by an alligator into a hotel lake at Walt Disney World on Wednesday. Mr. Iger phoned the child’s parents and said in a statement that “as a parent and a grandparent, my heart goes out to the Graves family during this time of devastating loss.”
鉴于迪士尼帝国其他地方发生的事件，这一幕的气氛有些不协调。艾格周四凌晨4点被叫醒，得知佛罗里达州当局发现了莱恩·格雷夫斯(Lane Graves)的尸体。这个孩子周三在华特·迪士尼世界的一座酒店被鳄鱼拖入湖中。艾格给孩子的父母打了电话，并在声明中表示：“身为父亲和祖父，我对格雷夫斯一家人的巨大损失感同身受。”
Mr. Iger and his public affairs teams, working nearly round the clock from Shanghai in recent days, also had to contend with the mass shooting on Sunday in Orlando, Fla., which is in many ways a Disney company town. Disney employees were among the shooting victims; it was subsequently reported that the gunman, Omar Mateen, had earlier made a surveillance trip to a Disney World shopping complex.
近日里，艾格和他的公共事务团队在上海近乎全天24小时工作，同时还必须应对佛罗里达州奥兰多周日爆发的大规模枪击案。从很多方面来说，奥兰多是迪士尼公司的地盘。受害者中有迪士尼的员工；还有后续报道称，凶手奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)早前曾去过迪士尼世界的购物中心，被监控器拍到。
In Shanghai, more than a year of meticulous planning resulted in an opening that was surprisingly smooth. So far, the park here has suffered none of the cultural missteps that marred Disney openings in France and Hong Kong over the decades.
在上海，一年多的精心策划使得乐园的开业顺利得出奇。过去数十年里法国和香港迪士尼乐园开幕时发生过的文化失误，到目前为止还没有在上海的乐园出现。
“I brought my daughter here because she loves Mickey,” said Zhang Yan, 28, who came on opening day with her daughter, Li Xinyi, 7, who was wearing pink princess regalia. Ms. Zhang said she had driven three hours from Yangzhou.
“我带女儿来这儿是因为她喜欢米奇，”度假区开业当天，28岁的张艳（音）带着身穿公主装的7岁女儿李欣艺（音）赶了过来。张艳说她来自扬州，路上开了三个小时的车。
Mr. Iger’s goal for Shanghai Disneyland was nothing short of immediate perfection, but no amount of experience, planning and focus-group research could prepare Disney for what would happen when Chinese patrons began to pour through the gates. Would they buy mouse ear headbands? How long would they stay? Would they understand that waiting in line was part of the experience?
艾格希望这个度假区从一开始就完美无暇，但无论有过多少经验，做过多少规划和焦点小组访谈，迪士尼都难以准确预测中国游客涌入大门之际会发生什么并据此做好万全的准备。他们会购买米老鼠耳朵发箍吗？他们会逗留多久？他们会理解排队等候是迪士尼体验的一部分吗？
“On a lot of things, we had no idea,” Mr. Iger said, striding through the park on Saturday, an extremely sticky day on which roughly 35,000 people turned out as part of a soft opening.
“对很多问题我们都毫无头绪，”上周六，艾格边说话边在度假区内阔步前行。度假区当时处于试营业阶段，在那个异常闷热的日子里，共有3.5万名游客涌入。
So far, the answers have been mostly positive. “Turkey legs, corn dogs, hamburgers, popcorn — what you might call American food — is blowing the doors off,” Mr. Iger said. “We didn’t expect that.”
到目前为止，答案大多是正面的。“火鸡腿、玉米热狗、汉堡包、爆米花——也就是人们可能称之为美式食品的东西——全都大受欢迎，”艾格说，“这是我们没料到的。”
Mouse ears are one of the biggest sellers in stores. “I’ve even seen men wearing them,” Mr. Iger said.
米老鼠耳朵是卖得最好的商品之一。“我看到就连一些男士也戴着它们，”艾格说。
The monumental task of opening the park, which included planting 2.4 million shrubs, stocking 7,000 pieces of merchandise and training 10,000 employees, has had its challenges. In recent days, engineers were racing to finish an elaborate white-water raft ride. And Soaring Over the Horizon, a flight simulator that whisks riders to world monuments like the Eiffel Tower, was having some technical difficulties, resulting in four-hour lines at one point.
艰巨的开业准备工作——包括种植240万株灌木，储备7000种周边商品，培训1万名员工——一直挑战重重。前些天，工程师正为一处精巧的白水漂流游乐设施的完工而紧张劳作。此外，“飞越地平线”——一种飞行模拟器，能让游客产生掠过埃菲尔铁塔(Eiffel Tower)等世界名胜之感——遇到了一些技术问题，一度导致游客排队等候四小时。
On the other hand, the Explorer Canoes, called Davy Crockett’s Explorer Canoes in the United States, have been lost in translation for some.
另一方面，“探险家独木舟”——在美国叫“大卫·克洛科特的探险家木舟”(Davy Crockett’s Explorer Canoes)——受到了某些人的误解。
“When people first got into the canoes they didn’t realize they had to paddle,” Mr. Iger said. “So we had the two cast members” — Disney’s term for park employees — “paddling, like, 30 people.”
“人们最初登上独木舟的时候，并未意识到自己必须划桨，”艾格说。“于是我们的两名剧组成员”——迪士尼乐园员工的专有称谓——“要负责为大约载有30名游客的木舟划桨。”
Although Disney holds only a minority position in the park, the profit potential for the company remains nothing short of spectacular, analysts say. It will receive a 43 percent share of revenue from the park, which includes merchandise, food sales and hotel income. Single-day adult ticket prices cost $75 on weekends and holidays, a healthy price in China, and $56 for nonpeak days. (That compares with $125 and $105 at Disney World.)
虽然迪士尼只拥有这个度假区不到一半的股权，但分析人士称，其潜在收益依然极为可观。迪士尼将把该主题公园43%的收入纳入囊中，其中包括来自周边商品、食品和酒店的收入。周末和节假日的单日成人票价为499元人民币（约合75美元）——在中国属于正常价位——非高峰日为370元。（相比之下，迪士尼世界的票价分别为125美元和105美元）。
Disney will also receive a fee for its role in managing the resort and royalties for the use of its characters. Moreover, Disney expects Shanghai Disneyland to increase interest across China for its movies, toys, clothes, video games and books.
迪士尼还将收取这个度假地的管理费和相关角色的版权费。另外，迪士尼希望上海迪士尼乐园可以让中国人对它的电影、玩具、服装、电视节目、电子游戏和书籍更感兴趣。
Even a little growth in China would have a big financial impact on Disney. The entertainment conglomerate generated $52.5 billion in revenue in its last fiscal year, and Asia represented about 7.5 percent of that total. Disney does not release more detailed information, but Anthony DiClemente, an analyst at Nomura Securities, estimates that Disney had $1 billion in revenue in China in 2015; excluding Hong Kong, the total is closer to $700 million — a drop in the Disney bucket.
中国市场即便只是少量增长，也会对迪士尼造成重大的财务影响。该娱乐集团上一财年的收入为525亿美元，来自亚洲市场的收入占比7.5%。迪士尼未披露更详细的信息，但野村证券(Nomura Securities)分析师安东尼·迪克莱门特(Anthony DiClemente)估计，2015年，迪士尼在中国市场获得了10亿美元的收入；剔除来自香港的收入之后大约为7亿美元——这对迪士尼而言只是九牛一毛。
With so much at stake, Mr. Iger deeply involved himself in the preparations. He tasted the food in advance, including Mickey Mouse-shaped Peking duck pizza and what he called “distinctly Chinese” turkey legs with hoisin sauce. He gave feedback on ride-operator costumes and personally chose the spot where a statue of Walt Disney would be placed. “I said, ‘No, no, no – I want it closer to the castle,’” he recalled.
由于上海度假区的开业关系重大，艾格本人对准备工作极为投入。他预先品尝过这里的食物，包括米老鼠造型的北京烤鸭披萨，以及在他看来“极具中国特色的”海鲜酱火鸡腿。他就游乐设施操作员的服装发表过意见，还亲自为一尊沃尔特·迪士尼雕像选定了放置地点。“我说，‘不不不——我想让它离城堡更近一些，’”他回忆道。
On his tour, Mr. Iger walked through a 15-acre garden in the center of the park designed for older visitors. In part because of China’s longtime one-child policy, Shanghai Disneyland must have strong intergenerational appeal. As “Let’s Go Fly a Kite” from “Mary Poppins” played on the Fantasia Carousel sound system, Mr. Iger pointed toward a grove of cherry trees where 12 mosaics depicted Disney characters in Chinese zodiac style.
巡视期间，艾格穿过了主题公园中心一个15英亩大，专为较年长游客设计的花园。部分是由于中国曾长期实施一孩化政策，上海迪士尼乐园必须具备强烈的超越代际的吸引力。当“幻想曲旋转木马”的音响系统播放《玛丽·波平斯》(Mary Poppins)里的《让我们去放风筝》(Let’s Go Fly a Kite)时，艾格指向一片樱花树丛，那里有12幅以马赛克拼成的壁画，上面是由迪士尼角色演绎的中国十二生肖。
“We think this will be a very popular photo op,” he said. Disney learned at Hong Kong Disneyland, which opened in 2005, that the Chinese love to take pictures of themselves in front of whimsical facades. (Mr. Iger’s zodiac symbol — he was born in 1951 — is a rabbit, represented on the wall by Thumper from “Bambi.”)
“我们认为这组壁画会成为非常受欢迎的拍照背景，”他说。迪士尼从2005年开业的香港迪士尼乐园中得到的经验是，中国人喜欢在天马行空的建筑立面前給自己拍照。（艾格本人属兔——他1951年生人——在壁画中，这个生肖由《小鹿斑比》[Bambi]中的桑普[Thumper]演绎。）
Next, it was on to the castle, the largest, and the tallest (197 feet), that Disney has ever built. Upstairs is an ornate princess-themed restaurant with leaded-glass windows, intricately painted ceilings and chandeliers that look as if they belong at Versailles.
旁边就是迪士尼迄今打造的最大、最高（197英尺）的城堡。城堡上一家华丽的公主主题餐厅，有着铅框玻璃窗、绘有精美图案的天花板以及看上去仿佛属于凡尔赛宫的吊灯。
Mr. Iger cited the opulence as an example of what he calls “the Disney difference,” which means a presentation so time-consuming and expensive that most rivals can’t come close to mimicking it.
艾格以这种富丽堂皇为例，来解释他称之为“迪士尼的不同之处”的东西，意即以极为耗时、极为昂贵的方式呈现所有的一切，让竞争对手极其难以模仿。
Suddenly, however, Mr. Iger’s ebullience faded. Upon exiting the castle, he had spotted a dozen people crouched in the building’s vestibule.
然而，艾格突然变得不那么兴高采烈了。走出城堡时，他发现十几个人蹲在这栋建筑的门厅里。
“This is because we still don’t have enough benches or shade yet,” he said. “Believe me, that’s getting fixed.”
“这是因为我们还没有足够多的长椅或者乘凉之处，”他说。“相信我，这个问题很快就会得到解决。”