Friday is the start of North Korea’s most important political meeting in 36 years: the seventh congress of the ruling Workers’ Party. Thousands of delegates from around the country are in Pyongyang, the capital, whose residents have been mobilized to welcome them. But beyond the choreographed pageantry and fervor, there are reasons to watch the proceedings closely.
本周五，朝鲜36年来最重要的政治会议开幕了：执政党劳动党的第七次全国代表大会。数千名来自全国各地的代表齐聚首都平壤，而当地居民都被动员起来欢迎他们。不过，除了特意安排的浩大声势和热烈情绪之外，的确有理由来密切关注这次会议。
What is the congress? 
这是怎样的一个大会？
In theory, the Workers’ Party rules North Korea, and the congress is where its most important decisions are made. Delegates will elect the party’s central committee, which will choose the Politburo and the party’s top boss, the first secretary. (Kim Jong-un is, to say the least, highly likely to retain that post.) The congress also reviews past policies and adopts new party lines.
理论上讲，朝鲜由劳动党统治，而国家最重要的决策就是在党代会上做出的。与会代表将要选举党的中央委员会，然后这个委员会又会选出中央政治局成员和名为“第一书记”的党魁（当然，极有可能还是由金正恩担任）。大会还会回顾之前的政策，采纳新的路线。
That’s the theory. In reality, all decision-making power is concentrated in one supreme leader, Mr. Kim, and all political events are dedicated to ensuring what the country calls his “monolithic leadership.” The charter of the Workers’ Party commits it to upholding Mr. Kim as its “center” while abiding by “the Kim Il-sung/Kim Jong-il ideology as its only leadership philosophy” (referring to North Korea’s two previous supreme leaders, Mr. Kim’s grandfather and his father).
这是理论上的说法。在现实中，所有决策权都集中在朝鲜最高领导人金正恩手中，所有政治活动都致力于确保他“坚如磐石的领导”。劳动党的章程里写道，要坚决把金正恩当作“唯一核心”，以“金日成金正日主义为唯一领导哲学”（指的是朝鲜以前的两个最高领导人——金正恩的祖父和父亲）。
Why is this happening now?
为什么选在现在开会？
It is not entirely clear. According to its charter, the Workers’ Party is supposed to hold its congress every five years. But this is only the seventh in the party’s 70-year history; the last one was held in 1980, before Mr. Kim was even born. Kim Il-sung was in charge then.
原因并不完全清楚。根据劳动党的章程，全国代表大会应该每五年举办一次。但是，这仅仅是该党70年历史上的第七次大会，上一次举行是在1980年，当时金正恩还没有降生，是金日成在当政。
By the time Kim Jong-il inherited power in the mid-1990s, the North’s economy had collapsed after decades of mismanagement, the disintegration of the Soviet bloc and a series of droughts and floods. Famine is believed to have killed more than two million citizens during the 1990s. Kim Jong-il’s response to the crisis was to rely on a military of 1.1 million to ensure internal security, and the army replaced the Workers’ Party as the main governing body. Kim Jong-il retained his party titles as well as military ones, but he never convened a party congress, which spared him from having to address the subject of the famine.
到了90年代中期金正日继承权力的时候，经过几十年的管理不善、苏联解体，以及一系列干旱和洪水灾害，朝鲜国内经济已经崩溃。整个90年代期间，饥荒据信夺去了逾200万公民的性命。面对危机，金正日做出的反应是依靠110万军队维持国内局面稳定。军队取代了劳动党的地位，成为了主要的统治机构。金正日保留了党内和军内职务，但他从未召开党代会，这样就无需谈到饥荒问题。
Though conditions in the North are far less dire now, Kim Jong-un has done little to improve living standards since taking power a few years ago. Nevertheless, he announced in October that a party congress would be held this month. He has been billing himself as a leader who can protect the country’s “independence and dignity” with nuclear weapons, and three recent (failed) attempts to launch midrange ballistic missiles were seen as efforts to bolster his image before the congress.
虽然朝鲜的形势已远不比当年那么严峻，但金正恩上台几年来，几乎没有做任何努力来改善朝鲜民众的生活水平。尽管如此，他还是在去年10月宣布将于本月召开党代会。他一直在宣传自己是一位可以凭借核武器维护本国“独立与尊严”的领导人。朝鲜最近进行的三次（失败的）中程弹道导弹发射试验，被看作是在党代会前夕强化这一形象的努力。
Why does the congress matter?
为什么说这次党代会意义重大？
“With this party congress, Kim Jong-un is restoring the party as the main governing agency,” said Lim Eul-chul, an analyst at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies in Seoul, South Korea. Under Mr. Kim, the Workers’ Party has regained powers and perks that it ceded to the army under his father’s rule, including the lucrative right to export coal. The new party leadership he puts together — approved by delegates who, though technically chosen in local elections, are actually handpicked loyalists — will make the party truly his own. That is why some analysts have likened the congress to Mr. Kim’s coronation and called it the official start of the Kim Jong-un era.
“通过召开这次党代会，金正恩在将他的政党恢复为朝鲜的主要统治机构，”韩国首尔远东问题研究所(Institute for Far Eastern Studies)分析师林乙川（Lim Eul-chul，音）表示。在金正恩领导下，劳动党收回了在他父亲统治时期被迫让给军方的一些权力和好处，包括收益不菲的煤炭出口权。他组建的劳动党新一届领导层——经过了党代表批准，尽管从技术层面讲，他们由地方选举产生，但实际上都是金正恩精挑细选的效忠者——将使该党真正成为他的政党。这也就是为什么一些分析人士将这次党代会比作金正恩的加冕礼，称它标志着金正恩时代的正式开启。
What should we watch for?
大会有哪些看点？
In his New Year’s speech in January, Mr. Kim said that he would present “an ambitious blueprint” for the country during the congress, and he vowed to treat improving the people’s living conditions “as the most important of the numerous state affairs.” Analysts are watching to see if he introduces economic reforms.
今年1月发表新年讲话时，金正恩曾表示，他将在党代会期间拿出朝鲜发展的“宏伟蓝图”，还承诺将提高民众生活水平“当作众多国事中的第一国事”来对待。分析人士密切关注着他是否会为朝鲜引入经济改革。
Mr. Kim has shown some tolerance for private enterprise, giving rise to a new moneyed class that has thrived on smuggling goods from China. He has made improvements to his showpiece capital, opening water parks and building high-rise apartments along the Taedong River, but most of the country lives in misery, without enough food or electricity. In 2013, Mr. Kim adopted his so-called byungjin policy, calling for rebuilding the economy while expanding a nuclear arsenal. The idea is that nuclear weapons will provide security that allows the country to focus on economic recovery.
金正恩对私营企业表现出一些宽容，朝鲜由此诞生了通过从中国走私商品而发达起来的一个新兴富裕阶层。金正恩改善了作为对外展示窗口的首都平壤的条件，在大同江沿岸开设水上乐园，建高层公寓，但这个国家大多数地区的生活依然十分困苦，没有足够的粮食和电力供应。在2013年，金正恩采取了他所说的“并行”路线，要求同时重建朝鲜经济和扩展核武库。其背后的逻辑在于核武器将保障朝鲜专注于经济恢复所需的安全局面。
Now that North Korea claims to be a nuclear power, some analysts expect Mr. Kim to shift more attention to the economy. The United States and South Korea say the byungjin policy will not work, and they have vowed to deepen the North’s isolation until it abandons its nuclear weapons. But few expect that to happen any time soon. Indeed, the party may amend its charter to define the North as a nuclear power, South Korean analysts say. (The North’s Constitution was amended to that effect in 2012.)
既然朝鲜宣称自己已是一个核武国家，一些分析人士便期待金正恩能将更多精力转移到经济发展上。美国和韩国表示，“并行”路线行不通，还发誓要加强对朝鲜的孤立，直到它放弃研发核武器。不过，几乎没有人认为这样的时刻会很快来临。事实上，有韩国分析人士表示，劳动党有可能会修改党章，将朝鲜明确定义为一个核武国家。（朝鲜宪法曾在2012年进行修订，已经大致表达出这样的含义。）
What else might happen?
还有可能出现什么情况？
It’s hard to say. Kim Il-sung used past congresses to help remove rival factions and tighten his family’s grip on power. At the sixth congress in 1980, Kim Jong-il grabbed crucial party posts that cemented his status as his father’s heir. (During that meeting, North Korea presented a vision for a reunified Korean Peninsula: a “Democratic Confederal Republic of Koryo,” in which the South and North would exist in peace as autonomous regions respecting each other’s political systems.)
这很难说。金日成过去曾利用党代会来消除敌对派系，加强金氏家族对政权的掌控。在1980年举行的第六次党代会上，金正日揽下多项党内关键职位，巩固了自己作为父亲金日成继承人的地位。（在那次党代会期间，朝鲜提出了让朝鲜半岛重新获得统一的愿景：成立“高丽民主联邦共和国”，使朝韩作为尊重彼此政治制度的自治行政区在其中和平共处。）