BEIJING — In a small dance studio in Beijing, the members of China’s newest entry in the national pop-music pageant ran through a sequence of pulsing pelvic thrusts and choreographed crotch grabs.
北京——在北京的一个小型舞蹈工作室内，一个中国流行音乐新星组合正在做一系列有节奏的甩胯和精心编排的抓胯动作。
After a three-minute workout, the group’s leader, Lu Keran, breathlessly asked the band’s manager: “Now can I go to the bathroom?”
刚练了三分钟，队长陆柯燃就上气不接下气地问乐团经理：“我现在可以去洗手间吗？”
It has been a hard and fast ascent for Ms. Lu and her bandmates in Acrush — five young women who want nothing more than to show the world they can become their country’s biggest boy band.
对陆柯燃和她在Acrush组合的其他成员来说，这是一场艰难而又迅速的上升旅程——这五名年轻的女孩一心想向世界证明，她们可以成为中国最大的美少年团体。
Acrush, which stands for “Adonis crush,” after the Greek god, is the creation of Zhejiang Huati Culture Media Company, one of China’s pop-music factories and a supergroup incubator aiming to saturate the market with ensemble acts that can rack up Weibo fans and flood Tencent video streams.
Acrush是“Adonis crush”（意为被迷恋的阿多尼斯）的缩写，阿多尼斯为希腊神话中的美少年。组合的打造者浙江华体文化传媒公司是一家中国流行音乐公司，也是一个超级团体孵化器，目标是用在微博上拥有众多粉丝、给腾讯带来巨大视频流量的团体占据市场。
Since China’s unofficial ban last year on popular South Korean cultural imports, Chinese promoters have tried to satisfy pop music fans with homegrown talent. There are slick boy bands and foxy girl groups, but Acrush aims for a growing segment of Chinese youth culture: androgynous urban trendsetters who reject traditional gender norms.
自从中国去年开始非正式地禁止韩国流行文化输入，中国推广者就试图用本土人才来满足流行音乐粉丝的需求。市场上出现了华丽的男团和性感的女团，但Acrush瞄准的是势头不断增强的中国青年文化：反对传统性别规范的都市中性潮流引领者。
“People have been really curious,” said Peng Xichen, 21, the newest member of Acrush. “They’re used to seeing either cutesy or sexy girl groups, or boy bands. But I guess they’re not really used to seeing a totally androgynous girl band.”
“人们十分好奇，”最新加入的Acrush成员、21岁的彭兮辰说。“他们过去看到的要么是矫揉造作或性感的女团，要么是男团。但我想他们还是不太习惯看到一个完全中性化的女团。”
The group was formed late last year after a nationwide search for members for a new girl band. During auditions, promoters found “many very natural, very handsome girls,” said Wang Tianhai, the chief executive of Zhejiang Huati, which is based in Hangzhou.
经过一场全国性的女团成员选拔后，这个团体在去年末成立。在面试期间，筹办者发现了“许多十分自然、非常帅气的女孩，”总部位于杭州的浙江华体首席执行官王天海说。
These “handsome girls” represent a new marketing gambit for Mr. Wang to break into a previously unclaimed sliver of the increasingly diversified Chinese audience.
对王天海而言，这些“帅气的女孩”代表着一种新的市场策略，可以让他们打入日益多元的中国观众中之前不曾被开发的一块。
“There are so many androgynous-looking girls these days, we thought they would be more relatable,” Mr. Wang said.
“现在有这么多外观十分中性化的女孩，我们想她们肯定能获得更多的认同，”王天海说。
For the members of Acrush, which released its first video last month, the band is a chance for them to express themselves and pursue dreams of stardom in a society that has long stressed conformity over individuality.
对上月已经发布了首支单曲视频的Acrush成员来说，这个组合是一个机会，可以让她们在一个长期强调从众大过个性的社会里，表达自我和追求明星梦。
‘How Could I Be a Celebrity?’
“我怎么可能出名？”
An Junxi’s father really wanted a son. “But I was born a girl, so my dad just thought, ‘Well, she’s young, so we’ll just dress her up like a boy,’” Ms. An said, straddling a lounge chair — full manspread — during a break in rehearsal outside the studio.
安俊稀的父亲真正想要的是个男孩。“但我生下来是个女孩，所以父亲就想，‘她还小，就把她打扮成男孩的样子好了，’”安俊稀在排练间歇横跨在工作室外的一张躺椅上说道，露出十足的男子气。
“I’ve dressed like this ever since I was young,” she explained. Wearing dresses “just felt weird.”
“我从小就穿成这个样子，”她解释说。穿裙子“感觉很怪”。
Like many Chinese of her generation, Ms. An, 22, became enamored with K-pop music imported from South Korea, especially that of the rapper G-Dragon.
像她这一代的许多中国人一样，22岁的安俊稀迷上了从韩国引入的流行音乐，尤其是说唱歌手权志龙(G-Dragon)的音乐。
After she graduated from college, she moved from her small hometown in the northeast near Shenyang across the country to the city of Chengdu, where she was discovered rapping in a friend’s bar by her agent, Zhou Xiaobai.
从大学毕业后，她从离东北城市沈阳不远的家乡小镇搬到中国西南城市成都，在那里被她的经纪人周小白发掘，当时她正在一个朋友的酒吧里表演说唱音乐。
“I thought she was a total scammer,” Ms. An said of her agent, who manages Acrush. “I wasn’t a trained singer, I was singing other people’s songs and I had studied classical Chinese dancing — how could I be a celebrity?”
“我当时完全以为她是个骗子，”安俊稀指的是负责管理Acrush的经纪人。“我不是一名受过训练的歌手，唱的是别人的歌，而且我学的是中国古典舞，怎么可能出名？”
‘My Parents Wanted Me to Be a Stock Trader’
“我父母想让我成为一名股票交易员”
Growing up in the southern city of Nanjing, Lu Keran was a tomboy. She played sports, and even went to a special athletic academy to be a competitive fencer.
在南部城市南京长大的陆柯燃以前是个假小子。她练体育，为了成为一名有竞争力的击剑运动员，甚至去上了一所专门的体育学校。
Keeping her hair long, she said, was annoying, so at age 10 she cut it short, and people would often confuse her for a boy. “It was really awkward,” she recalled, but her closely cropped coif suited her and felt like an early act of rebellion against the traditional expectations of her parents, both engineers.
她说留长发很烦人，所以就在10岁的时候剪了短发，人们常把她错当成男孩。“就很尴尬，”她回忆道，但那头短发很适合她，而且让人感觉像是对父母——都是工程师——传统期望的早期反叛。
“They think girls are supposed to work in an office and then go home,” Ms. Lu, 21, said. “My parents wanted me to be a stock trader.”
“他们觉得女孩就该在办公室里工作，然后下班回家，”21岁的陆柯燃说道。“我父母想让我成为一名股票交易员。”
Her youthful acts of rebellion started to grow: a small geometric tattoo on her right ankle went unnoticed, then a sprawling image of a dragon’s head on her right forearm.
青春期的叛逆行为开始增多：先是在右脚踝上纹了一小块几何图案，没被注意，之后又在右前臂纹了一大片龙头图案。
When her parents discovered her tattoos, Ms. Lu said, her mother refused to speak to her for days.
陆柯燃说，父母发现了纹身后，母亲有好多天没跟她说话。
“They thought getting a tattoo was something that bad kids did,” she said. “But you see a lot of kids in my generation getting tattoos now. I guess that’s the generation gap.”
“他们觉得纹身是坏孩子干的事，”她说。“但你看我们这一代现在有很多孩子都纹身了。我想这就是代沟。”
Though she studied economics in college in Nanjing to appease her parents, Ms. Lu had her own ambitions.
尽管陆柯燃对父母做出让步，去南京的一所大学读了经济学，但她依然有自己的抱负。
“I do what I want to do,” she said defiantly. “Whatever makes me happy, I do.”
“我做自己想做的事，”她挑衅地说道。“什么开心就干什么。”
‘I’m Still a Typical Girl’
“我仍是个典型的女孩子”
Min Junqian, 24, had always dreamed of becoming a star. In 2012, she left the musical performance program at a university near her hometown in the eastern province of Shandong to jump-start her entertainment career in Beijing.
24岁的闵俊千一直梦想成为一个明星。2012年，她放弃了离山东老家不远的一所大学的音乐表演课程，来北京发展自己的娱乐事业。
She performed on several variety shows, including an online series called “Let Go of That Piece of Clothing,” before she was invited to join Acrush in September. 
去年9月应邀加入Acrush之前，她参加过几个综艺节目，包括网络节目《放开那件衣服》。
Ms. Min is the band’s most macho member. On Sina Weibo, the Chinese social media platform, she recently posted a photo of herself dressed in a black tank top to show off her biceps.
闵俊千是乐队里最有男子气质的。前不久，她在中国社交网络平台新浪微博上发布了一张身穿黑色背心的照片，展示自己的肱二头肌。
The band’s management forbids members to talk openly about their sexual orientation, and Ms. Min plays it coy: “What do you think I am? You can’t really tell, right?”
乐队管理层禁止成员公开讨论自己的性取向。闵俊千也不愿直言：“你觉得我是同性恋吗？你也说不准，是吧？”
Ms. Min confesses a fan-girl crush on Wang Leehom, the Taiwanese-American pop idol. “Wang Leehom is so handsome and talented. So handsome! I want to marry him!”
闵俊千承认自己是台湾裔美籍流行偶像王力宏的迷妹。“王力宏太帅了，太有天分了。简直帅呆了！我想嫁给他！”
She added: “I’m still a typical girl.”
她还说：“我仍是个典型的女孩子。”
‘My Life Is My Own Life’
“我的生活我做主”
Tall and lanky, Lin Fan, 18, is the youngest member of the group and has yet to find her rock-star mojo.
18岁的林凡又高又瘦，是乐队里最年轻的成员，她还没有找到摇滚明星的感觉。
At a recent photo shoot, the other members of the group struck power poses while Ms. Lin stood awkwardly, arms hanging limply by her sides. She admits that she is not the strongest dancer.
前不久拍照片时，乐队里的其他成员都摆出很有力量的姿势，林凡尴尬地站在那里，胳膊无力地放在身体两侧。她承认自己不是乐队中最强的舞者。
“I’m pretty clumsy,” she said. “But I’ve always dreamed of doing this, so I’m very happy.”
“我很笨拙，”她说。“但这一直是我的梦想，所以我很高兴。”
Ms. Lin is the most feminine of the five bandmates and cast by image makers as the ingénue — the small-town girl finding her place in the world. Though female fans refer to the other members of the band as “husband” — as in the sort of boy a girl would want to marry — they affectionately refer to Ms. Lin as “wife” or “little sister.”
林凡是五位乐队成员中最有女人味的，她被形象设计师塑造为天真少女——寻找自己在世界上的位置的小城女孩。虽然女粉丝们把乐队的其他成员称为“老公”——女孩想嫁的那种男孩——她们亲切地称林凡为“老婆”或“妹子”。
“My family has always thought that girls should look and act like girls,” she said. “But for my generation, we think: My life is my own life.”
“我的家人一直认为，女孩应该有女孩的样子，”她说，“但我们这一代人认为：我的生活我做主。”
Peng Xichen, 21, is a pop-music veteran. Before she joined Acrush in January, she was in another girl group — a “cute band” — in which each member played a stereotypical female role.
21岁的彭兮辰已经在流行乐圈打拼多年。今年1月加入Acrush之前，她属于另一个“可爱”组合，每个成员扮演一个模式化的女性角色。
“We had to dance these kind of cute, sexy routines,” she said. “I could do it, but it wasn’t the image I wanted to show. I didn’t feel like it was me.”
“我们必须跳那种可爱性感的舞蹈，”她说。“我可以跳，但那不是我想展示的形象。我觉得那不是我。”
Ms. Peng had studied dance at a special school since she was 12, and trained in different styles, including Latin dance. But it was not until she joined Acrush, she said, that she felt as if she could express her true self.
彭兮辰从12岁起就在一所专门的学校里学习舞蹈，受过各种风格的舞蹈训练，包括拉丁舞。不过她说，直到加入Acrush后，她才感觉能够表达真正的自我。
“Male dancing is more powerful, more handsome,” she said.
“男性舞蹈更有力量，更帅，”她说。
It remains to be seen if audiences will embrace Acrush’s gender-bending style, Ms. Peng said. “I’m really scared that what we’ve prepared isn’t what everyone wants.”
彭兮辰表示，观众是否接纳Acrush女扮男装的风格，仍需拭目以待。“我非常担心，我们准备的东西并不是大家想要的。”