As more than 100,000 Chinese soldiers swarmed far fewer American Marines and soldiers in subzero temperatures on treacherous terrain in one of the fiercest battles of the Korean War, two United States Navy pilots took off from an aircraft carrier to provide cover for their comrades on the ground.
在朝鲜战争最惨烈的一场战斗中，10万多名中国士兵涌向兵力完全处于劣势的美国海军陆战队队员和陆军士兵，那里地形复杂，气温也在零度以下。两名美国海军飞行员从一艘航母上起飞，去掩护他们地面上的战友。
One of the airmen, Ensign Jesse L. Brown, was the son of an African-American sharecropper from Mississippi. The other, Lt. Thomas J. Hudner Jr., was the son of a white patrician merchant family from Massachusetts.
飞行员之一是海军少尉杰西·L·布朗(Jesse L. Brown)，他是密西西比州一名黑人佃农的儿子。另一名是海军上尉小托马斯·J·哈德纳(Thomas J. Hudner Jr.)，他是白人，来自马萨诸塞州一个商人世家。
An hour into the flight, Ensign Brown’s plane was hit by enemy fire, forcing him to crash land on the side of a mountain at Chosin, north of Pyongyang. Lieutenant Hudner brought his plane down nearby and found Ensign Brown, but could not rescue him.
在飞行一小时后，布朗少尉的飞机被敌军火力击中，他不得不迫降在平壤以北长津湖畔的山上。哈德纳上尉把他的飞机降落在旁边，发现了布朗，但却没能救他。On Monday, nearly 63 years after the Battle of Chosin Reservoir, Mr. Hudner, 88, arrived in Beijing after a 10-day visit to North Korea aimed at finding his friend’s remains.
周一，在长津湖水库之战(Battle of Chosin Reservoir)爆发63年之后，88岁的哈德纳到了北京，此前他对朝鲜进行了为期10天的访问，目的是找到战友的遗骸。
The trip to North Korea coincided with the 60th anniversary of the end of the Korean War, a milestone that the North Korean government has tried to use for propaganda purposes.
他的朝鲜之旅正赶上朝鲜战争结束60周年，这个纪念日是一个里程碑，朝鲜政府一直试图在宣传中对它加以利用。
Mr. Hudner’s trip was arranged by Chayon Kim, a Korean American who organized the visit in April of Dennis Rodman, the former N.B.A. star who became the first American to meet with the North’s young leader, Kim Jong-un, since he took over from his father in 2011. The timing of Mr. Hudner’s visit coincided with a massive military parade on Saturday.
哈德纳的行程由金钗妍（Chayon Kim，音译）安排，她是一名韩裔美国人，曾组织过今年4月丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)的访问。朝鲜的年轻领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在2011年接替他父亲掌权，这个前NBA明星成了他掌权后接见的第一名美国人。而哈德纳的到访恰逢周六的大型阅兵式。
Not wanting to be a North Korean prop and citing his frail legs, Mr. Hudner said he avoided the parade and stayed away from the opening of a military museum featuring the U.S.S. Pueblo, an American Navy ship captured by North Korea in 1968.
哈德纳说自己不想成为朝鲜的道具，因而以自己腿脚不好为由，避开了游行，并且没去参加一座军事博物馆的揭幕典礼，那里展示着普韦布洛号(USS Pueblo)，这是一艘美国海军舰船，在1968年被朝鲜缴获。
Nonetheless, he said he made the trip to help bring closure not only to himself but to Mr. Brown’s widow, Daisy Brown Thorne, 88. In the end, though, his mission failed. It is the rainy season in the North, and the North Koreans told him that almost daily downpours had washed away roads and bridges and made access to the crash site, a five-hour drive from Pyongyang, impossible.
不过他说，之所以进行这次旅行，不仅是为了了结他自己的心愿，也是为了布朗的88岁遗孀黛西·布朗·索恩(Daisy Brown Thorne)。然而他的任务最终失败了。朝鲜人告诉他，现在该国北部正处于雨季之中，几乎每天都有暴雨，雨水冲毁了道路和桥梁，想从平壤开车五个小时抵达迫降地点是不可能的。
“It was sort of a jolt to see how they were claiming this was a victory,” Mr. Hudner said, as he and his traveling companion, Dick Bonelli, 82, a Marine veteran from the battle of Chosin, relaxed at a hotel here before returning to the United States on Tuesday. “We decided not to go to the parade and to skip the museum and the U.S.S. Pueblo. It still belongs to the United States.”
“看到他们宣称战争胜利，真让人感到震惊，”哈德纳说。“我们决定不去参加游行，并避开博物馆和普韦布洛号。它仍旧属于美国。”哈德纳正和他82岁的旅伴迪克·博内利(Dick Bonelli)在北京的一个饭店中休息，周二他们将返回美国。博内利是一名经历了长津湖战役的老兵。
Mr. Hudner’s attempt to save Mr. Brown has resonated through American military annals not only for its daring, but because of what it said about race relations in the newly desegregated military.
在美国军事历史中，哈德纳尝试营救布朗的举动引发了共鸣，不仅因为那需要极大勇气，还因为它展示了在刚废除种族隔离制的美国军队中的种族关系。
The two men met two years after the official desegregation order. “Shortly after I joined the squadron, I was changing into flight gear and he came in and nodded ‘Hello,’ ” Mr. Hudner said of meeting Ensign Brown in December 1949. “I introduced myself, but he made no gesture to shake hands. I think he did not want to embarrass me and have me not shake his hand. I think I forced my hand into his.”
这两人在官方发表废除种族隔离的命令两年之后相遇。“那时我刚参加飞行中队不久，有一次我正在换飞行服，他走进来点头说‘你好’，”哈德纳在回忆1949年12月见到布朗的场景时说。“我进行了自我介绍，但他并未摆出握手的姿势。我想，他是不愿为难我，让我不用拒绝和他握手。记得我当时硬是抓住他的手握了握。”
Mr. Brown, the United States Navy’s first black aviator, had endured scorn and prejudice during training from 1947 to 1948, said Adam Makos, who is writing a book on the wartime friendship between the two pilots, and who also visited Pyongyang with Mr. Hudner.
布朗是美国海军首位黑人飞行员，在1947年到1948年的训练期间受尽了蔑视和偏见，亚当·马科斯(Adam Makos)说。马科斯正在写一本关于这两名飞行员的战时友谊的书，他也随哈德纳一起访问了平壤。
On the day of the fateful flight, Mr. Hudner said he took off with Mr. Brown on his wing on Dec. 4, 1950. They were in a formation of six Corsairs, single-propeller planes from World War II that are big enough only for a pilot and are mounted with .50-caliber machine guns.
谈及改变命运的那天，哈德纳说，他们是在1950年12月4日起飞，布朗是他的僚机。他们处在六架海盗战斗机(Corsair)的编队中，这种来自第二次世界大战的单螺旋桨飞机仅能容纳一名飞行员，装备着0.5英寸口径的机枪。
The pilots had been flying almost daily sorties, giving protection to American soldiers engaged in hand-to-hand combat with Chinese soldiers sent by Mao Zedong to fortify the weak North Korean army.
飞行员几乎每天都会出动，掩护与中国部队短兵相接的美国士兵。朝鲜军队战斗力不强，所以毛泽东派出这些中国军人支援朝鲜。
The Americans, surprised by the wave upon wave of Chinese soldiers, and hindered by machine guns that did not work in the freezing weather, had been ordered to withdraw.
面对一批又一批的中国军人，美国人感到震惊，又苦于机关枪在天寒地冻的环境中出现故障，他们收到了撤退的命令。
They were within days of completing that operation when Mr. Hudner and Mr. Brown flew with instructions to patrol roads for enemy troops.
还有几天就要完成任务时，哈德纳和布朗收到命令，沿着道路搜寻敌军。
About an hour after takeoff, Mr. Hudner saw white vapor from Mr. Brown’s plane. “I pointed to a clearing on the mountain where Jesse could land,” Mr. Hudner said. “He landed with such force, we were convinced he perished. But we saw that Jesse opened the canopy of the cockpit, and we knew he was alive.”
起飞后约一小时，哈德纳看见布朗的飞机在冒白烟。他说，“我指出山上的一块空地，告诉杰西可以降落在那里，他降落时的冲力很强，我们都以为他死了。但是，我们看到杰西打开了驾驶舱，那时我们知道他还活着。”
Mr. Hudner managed to land about 100 yards from Mr. Brown. Two feet of snow covered the ground, the temperature was around zero, and they were behind enemy lines.
哈德纳设法降落在距离布朗100码处。地面上覆盖着过膝的积雪，气温大约在零度左右，他们当时身处敌人的后方。
“Jesse saw me coming and said in a calm voice: ‘Tom, we’ve got to figure a way of getting out of here.”
“杰西看我走过来，他平静地说，‘汤姆，我们得想办法离开这里。’”
The downed pilot had taken off his gloves, apparently to unbuckle his harness, but his hands were frozen stiff and he could not lever himself out of the cockpit, Mr. Hudner said. Mr. Hudner clambered onto the wing of Mr. Brown’s plane, but his boots, slick with ice and snow, slid and he could not grab his friend.
哈德纳说，布朗摘下手套，似乎是要解开安全带。但他的手被冻僵了，他不能把自己从驾驶舱里弄出来。哈德纳爬上布朗飞机的机翼，但他的靴子沾满了冰雪，非常之滑，让他无法抓住他的朋友。
Mr. Hudner went back to his plane and called for a rescue helicopter to come with an ax and a fire extinguisher. “I was trying to console him and assuring him help was on the way.” By the time an American helicopter arrived Mr. Brown had grown weak. “He told me, ‘If anything happens to me, tell my wife, Daisy, I love her.’ ”
哈德纳又回到了他自己的飞机，呼叫救援直升机带斧头和灭火器来。“我试着安慰他，并向他保证马上就有人来帮忙了 。”当一架美国直升机抵达时，布朗已变得很虚弱。“他告诉我，‘如果我出了什么事的话，告诉我的妻子黛西，我爱她。’”
The helicopter pilot told Mr. Hudner that darkness was coming, and they had to leave. “I told Jesse we couldn’t get him out without more equipment, and we were going to get more. He didn’t respond. I think he died while we were talking to him.”
直升机飞行员告诉哈德纳说，天就要黑了，他们必须离开。“我告诉杰西，没有更多设备的话，我们没法把他弄出来。我们要去取一些设备。他没有回应。我觉得在我们说话的时候，他死了。”
During his visit to Pyongyang, Mr. Hudner met twice with three North Korean army officers to discuss the return of Mr. Brown’s remains from the crash site. In the end, he was told that he should return in September when the weather was more predictable.
哈德纳访问平壤时，与三名朝鲜军官见过两次面，讨论归还坠机现场的布朗遗体的事宜。最终，他被告知应该在9月再来一次，那时的天气会好一些。
The North Koreans wanted a representative of the United States Joint P.O.W./M.I.A. Accounting Command, the arm of the military that sends recovery teams to old battlefields to retrieve the remains of American soldiers, to come on the return trip, Mr. Hudner said. The command ceased working with North Korea in 2005, in protest of the North’s disputed nuclear program.
哈德纳说，朝鲜希望美国战俘战争失踪人员联合统计指挥部(United States Joint P.O.W./M.I.A. Accounting Command)派出一名代表参与归还遗体过程。该指挥部隶属美国军方，会派出搜索队到从前的战场上收回美国军人遗骸。2005年，为抗议朝鲜备受争议的核计划，该指挥部停止了与朝鲜的合作。
Mr. Hudner, who received a Medal of Honor for his actions, said it was disappointing not to go to the crash site. “But we were gratified by the encouragement” of the North Koreans to return, he said. “From what we’ve seen, something positive will come out of getting the remains.”
哈德纳因为自己的表现而获得荣誉勋章。他说，不能去到坠机现场，令人失望。但是，对于朝鲜鼓励我们在9月份再来的态度，“我们感到欣慰，我们观察到的情况是，收回遗体这件事会带来一些正面影响。”