MIAMI — This time, nature tipped its hat, and Diana Nyad finally conquered the 110-mile passage from Cuba to Florida that had bedeviled her for 35 years.
迈阿密——这一次，连大自然都表示叹服。黛安娜·尼亚德(Diana Nyad)终于征服了从古巴到美国佛罗里达州的110英里（约合177公里）海上通道。这条通道已经困扰了她35年。
Sharks steered clear, currents were friendly, and storms took most of the Labor Day weekend off.
鲨鱼绕道，洋流和缓，劳工节(Labor Day)那个周末几乎没有暴风雨天气光顾。
The 64-year-old endurance swimmer emerged dazed and sunburned from the surf on Smathers Beach in Key West, Fla., just before 2 p.m. on Monday after nearly 53 hours in the ocean, a two-day, two-night swim from her starting point in Havana. She had survived the treacherous Florida Straits, a notorious stretch of water brimming with sharks, jellyfish, squalls and an unpredictable Gulf Stream. And she became the first person to do so unaided by the protection of a shark cage.
周一下午将近两点，这位64岁的耐力游泳选手从佛罗里达州基韦斯特的斯马瑟斯海滩的浪花之中走出来，神情呆滞，浑身晒得发红。她在海水中游了将近53个小时，从起点哈瓦那开始，整个过程持续了两天两夜。她安全地游过了环境险恶的佛罗里达海峡，这片恶名昭彰的水域中满是鲨鱼、水母，还有暴风和变幻莫测的墨西哥湾流。就这样，她成了在没有防鲨笼保护的情况下，成功游过这段水道的第一人。
It was her fifth attempt, coming after four years of grueling training, precision planning and single-minded determination. Her face scorched and puffy from so many hours in the salt water, she leaned on one of her friends and said from the beach:
这是她的第五次尝试。此前四年，她进行了艰苦的训练和精确的计划，还怀着坚定的决心。她的面部因为在盐水中待的时间过长而显得憔悴并有些浮肿。她倚着一个朋友，在沙滩上说：
“I have three messages. One is we should never, ever give up. Two is you never are too old to chase your dreams. Three is it looks like a solitary sport, but it takes a team.”
“我要告诉大家三件事。第一，我们绝对要永不放弃。第二，对于追逐梦想而言，什么年纪都不算老。第三，虽然这看起来像是一项个人运动，但是它需要一个团队。”
Coming at an age when few people attempt to set endurance records, Ms. Nyad’s swim lit up Twitter and Facebook with postings about perseverance and grit, including a tweet from President Obama: “Congratulations to Diana Nyad. Never give up on your dreams.”
在如今这个时代，很少会有人试图创造耐力纪录，而尼亚德的壮举让Twitter和Facebook上充满了关于耐力和勇气的言论。连奥巴马总统都在Twitter上发帖称：“恭喜黛安娜·尼亚德。绝不要放弃自己的梦想。”
Ms. Nyad’s success was built on her failures — the first in 1978, when she was 28, and the most recent last year at age 62. After each attempt, she improvised, learning what to adjust, whom to consult and which new protective protocol to consider. “Diana did her homework,” said Bonnie Stoll, Ms. Nyad’s friend and chief handler, shortly after Ms. Nyad completed her swim.
尼亚德的成功建立在多次失败之上。 她第一次尝试是在1978年，那时她28岁，最近一次尝试则是在去年，当时她62岁。每一次尝试之后，她都会随之做出改变，认识到如何调整，向谁请教，以及考虑哪种新保护措施。尼亚德游完之后不久，她的朋友兼首席教练邦尼·斯托尔(Bonnie Stoll)说，“戴安娜做足了功课。”
Two summers ago, she was felled midswim by a long asthma attack, her first ever. This year, she added a pulmonologist to her 35-member support team, Ms. Stoll said.
两年前的夏天，她游到中途时生平第一次哮喘发作，并长时间未能缓解，最终放弃。斯托尔表示，今年，尼亚德为35人的支持团队添加了一名肺病专家。
Box jellyfish, which are especially venomous, have been a constant source of danger; Ms. Nyad has been stung so badly on previous swims she had to stop. To break that cycle, she found an expert on box jellyfish this year to help her contain the threat.
箱形水母的毒性格外大，一直是一个危险源头。尼亚德之前几次尝试时曾被严重螫伤，不得不停止。为了打破这个循环，她今年找了一名箱形水母专家，帮助她遏制这种威胁。
In the evenings, Ms. Nyad donned a special suit with long sleeves and pant legs to protect her. She slathered “sting stopper” gel to form a barrier to keep out the venom. On Saturday night, she also wore a specially made prosthetic mask that covered her face. But the mask proved uncomfortable, cutting her mouth and tongue so badly, and impeding her breathing, that she discarded it after the first night.
到了晚上，尼亚德穿上一套特制的长衣长裤，以便保护自己。她涂了大量的“防螫”凝胶，将自己隔离起来，抵挡毒液的影响。周六夜间，她还用特制的假体面具遮住了脸部。但这个面具戴着并不舒服，严重割伤了她的嘴和舌头，而且妨碍呼吸，因此她在第一晚之后就丢弃了面具。
The course was mostly clear of box jellyfish this time. When she finally encountered a cluster, it was on her approach to Key West. The shark divers swam ahead of Ms. Nyad to disperse the swarm.
这次，她在游泳过程中几乎没有受到箱形水母的攻击。最终遇上一群水母的时候，她已经接近了基韦斯特。一些防鲨潜水员游到尼亚德前面，驱散了水母群。
In 2011, Ms. Nyad decided to use a team of shark divers who carried special zappers to ward off the predators. Trial and error also presented new options. She learned which wet suits were more forgiving on her skin in saltwater and which special nutrition gels and liquid drinks best fueled her. (She ingested them, sometimes through a tube, while treading water.) But there were two things Ms. Nyad could not control: the weather and the current. This time, both cooperated.
2011年，尼亚德决定请一组携带特制电子器械的防鲨潜水员来赶跑这种攻击性生物。试错的过程也带来了新的选择。她知道了哪种潜水服在海水中对皮肤更好，哪种特制的营养凝胶和液体饮料能给她提供最多的能量。（她在踩水的时候摄取食物，有时会通过管子摄取。）然而，有两件事情是尼亚德无法控制的：天气和洋流。这一次，两者的情况都非常好。
“I think that Mother Nature said, ‘You know what? Let her go,’ ” Ms. Stoll said.
斯托尔说，“我觉得大自然发了话，‘你知道吗？让她尽管游吧。’”
Unlike past swims derailed by squalls that pushed her off course, only one storm hit this weekend. It came on Sunday night and lasted a little under 90 minutes, Ms. Stoll said. Ms. Nyad followed her protocol and swam through it, accompanied by shark divers.
在过去的几次尝试中，暴风致使她偏离路线，推迟了进程。与之前不同，本周末只有一场风暴。斯托尔表示，周日晚间，风暴来袭，持续时间刚刚不到90分钟。尼亚德按部就班，在防鲨潜水员的陪伴下在风暴中前行。
Sharks, always a menace, were nowhere to be seen this time.
鲨鱼一直是个威胁，但这次没有碰到鲨鱼。
The favorable currents carried her along so swiftly that Ms. Nyad finished her swim one day earlier than expected, Ms. Stoll said. On average, Ms. Nyad swims about 1.6 miles an hour. With the current propelling her, she cruised at 5 m.p.h. during one stretch, Ms. Stoll said, adding, “Everything was in our favor.” 
斯托尔表示，有利的洋流帮助尼亚德急速前进，比预计时间足足早了一天到岸。一般说来，尼亚德每小时能游1.6英里左右。斯托尔称，在洋流的推动下，尼亚德有一段游程的速度达到了每小时5英里，“每项条件都对我们有利。”
To help her focus, Ms. Nyad relied, as she always has, on her favorite songs. Over and over, she hums them in her head, her strokes falling perfectly in time with the music’s cadence: “Ticket to Ride” by The Beatles echoed on one stretch, “Paperback Writer” on another.
为了集中注意力，尼亚德与往常一样求助于自己喜爱的歌曲。一次又一次，她在脑海里哼着歌，划水的节奏与音乐的节拍完美契合：有一段游程跟的是披头士乐队(The Beatles)的《远行的车票》(Ticket to Ride)，另一段则是《平装书作家》(Paperback Writer)。
The melodies keep her in rhythm; they keep her sane.
歌曲让她保持节奏，还让她保持清醒。
“Swimming is the ultimate form of sensory deprivation,” Ms. Nyad said in the month before her 2011 swim. “You are left alone with your thoughts in a much more severe way.”
2011年那次尝试之前的一个月，尼亚德曾说，“游泳是终极版的感官剥夺。它的隔绝程度要严重得多，只有你孤零零与自己的思想在一起。”
Through the years, others have tried to swim from Cuba to Key West and failed. In June, the Australian swimmer Chloe McCardel swam 11 hours and 14 miles before jellyfish stings forced her to stop.
多年来，也有其他一些人尝试从古巴游到基韦斯特，均以失败告终。今年6月，澳大利亚人克洛艾·麦卡德尔(Chloe McCardel)用11个小时游出了14英里，随后因水母螫刺而被迫放弃。
In 2012, another Australian swimmer, Penny Palfrey, swam 79 miles until strong currents waylaid her.
2012年，另一个澳大利亚人彭妮·帕尔弗里(Penny Palfrey)游了79英里，随后因洋流湍急而放弃。
Susie Maroney did complete the swim in 1997, but she did so inside a shark cage that was being pulled by a boat, providing a draft that made swimming much easier. The first time Ms. Nyad attempted the swim, in 1978, she also used a shark cage. Ms. Nyad did not use a shark cage this time. Whenever Ms. Nyad scrambled, heartbroken and exhausted, onto a boat after a failed attempt, she vowed it would be her last. “It was a fairy tale,” she said after her second failed attempt in August 2011, “but the fairy tale didn’t come true.”
1997年的时候，苏茜·马罗尼(Susie Maroney)的确完成了全程，但她是在船只后面拖着的防鲨笼里游的，牵引力让事情简单了许多。1978年进行首次尝试的时候，尼亚德也使用了防鲨笼，这次则没有采用。每当结束一次失败的尝试，心力交悴、筋疲力竭地爬上船的时候，她都发誓那是她最后一次尝试。2011年8月，第二次尝试失败后，她表示，“这是个童话，但童话不会成真。”
After last summer, Ms. Stoll said she was convinced that the Florida Straits were unswimmable. “I thought it wasn’t humanly possible or she would have done it,” Ms. Stoll said. “I was glad to be wrong.”
斯托尔称，经过去年夏天的尝试，她确信佛罗里达海峡是游不过的。“我觉得人类没法做到这一点，否则她早就做到了，”斯托尔说，“很高兴我错了。”