THE SEA RANCH, CALIF.
加利福尼亚，海滨牧场(SEA RANCH)
WHAT: A modern house with two bedrooms and two bathrooms
待售房产：一栋两卧两卫的现代住宅
HOW MUCH: $659,000
售价：65.9万美元（约合人民币409万元）
SIZE: 1,444 square feet total
面积：共计1444平方英尺（约134平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $456
每平方英尺单价：456美元（每平方米约合人民币3.1万元）
SETTING: The Sea Ranch is a planned community of modern houses on the Sonoma County coast, about 100 miles north of San Francisco. Designed to blend with the forest and bluffs, the houses are made from local cedar, redwood and Douglas fir. Sixty percent of the Sea Ranch is common land, with miles of trails winding along the ocean and through forest. There are no sidewalks or streetlights. This house is on a wooded lot over a small bridge at the end of a narrow road.
周边环境：这座海滨牧场(Sea Ranch)是索诺玛郡(Sonoma County)海岸边的一座经过规划的现代住宅区，位于旧金山市(San Francisco)北部大约100英里(约161公里)处。为了结合周边森林与断崖的环境，该房屋在设计上采用了当地的雪松、红杉和绿枞。该海滨牧场有百分之六十的面积为公共用地，沿岸有几条蜿蜒数英里的小径穿过森林。这里没有人行道或街灯。该房屋坐落在一块有茂密植被的土地上，经过窄道尽头的一座小桥可达。
INDOORS: The redwood-sided house was built in 1969 and renovated within the last five years. The interior is rustic, with pitched ceilings with light-color wood, clerestory windows, skylights and walls of glass. The kitchen and dining area are separated from the living room by beams, while the living area has built-in bench seating and a fireplace set into a rock wall. The pitched ceiling in the living area reaches over 18 feet, and windows face the forest.
室内环境：这栋外墙镶了红杉木的房屋建于1969年，并于近五年内翻修过。房屋的内部设计采用了乡村风格，有镶着浅色木板的斜顶天花板，以及几扇高侧窗、几扇天窗和几面玻璃墙。厨房和餐厅区由几根顶梁与客厅分开，该客厅内有一条嵌壁式的长凳和一座安在石墙中的壁炉。客厅区的斜顶天花板高度超过了18英尺（约5.5米），这里的几扇窗户都正对着森林。
Both bedrooms open to the outdoors, the master to a sitting area with a table and umbrella, the second bedroom to a garden. Both bedrooms also have built-in ladders leading to lofts above their closets, used for storage, additional sleeping space and reading. The carport adjoins a laundry room and workshop. Much of the furniture conveys with the house.
屋内的两间卧室都通往户外。这间主卧通往一处休息区，那里有一张桌子与遮阳伞，第二间卧室通往一座花园。这两间卧室内都有嵌壁式的梯子，可通往衣柜上方的跃层空间，那里用作储物间、额外的睡眠区与阅读区。这栋房屋的车棚连着一间洗衣房和工作间。屋内的大部分家具随住宅一起出售。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house has a series of decks, all connected, including one off the living and dining area, another with a gas barbecue, and yet another with a hot tub. The lot is 0.59 acres.
户外空间：这栋房屋带有好几处平台，全都互相连通，其中有客厅区与餐厅区外面的平台，有另一处带了燃气烧烤炉的平台，还有一处带热水浴池的平台。这块土地面积0.59英亩（约2388平方米）。
TAXES: Approximately $6,590 a year
税费：每年约6590美元（约合人民币40921元）
CONTACT: Pat Neth and Lisa Hantzsche, Kennedy & Associates Real Estate, (707) 884-9000; kennedyrealestate.com
联系方式：Pat Neth 和 Lisa Hantzsche，Kennedy & Associates房地产公司，(707) 884-9000;kennedyrealestate.com
•
ORLANDO, FLA.
佛罗里达州，奥兰多市(ORLANDO)
WHAT: A 1920s bungalow with three bedrooms and one and a half bathrooms, plus a lakefront lot
待售房产：一栋20世纪20年代建造的平台小屋，带三间卧室与一间半浴室，外加湖边的一块土地。
HOW MUCH: $650,000
售价：65万美元（约合人民币404万元）
SIZE: 2,927 square feet total
面积：共计2927平方英尺（约272平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $222
每平方英尺售价：222美元（每平方米约合人民币1.5万元）
SETTING: This house is in the Lake Copeland Historic District, a neighborhood of about 100 bungalows, Tudors and Mediterranean- and colonial-style houses a mile from downtown Orlando. It sits on a cul-de-sac lined with hundred-year-old oak trees across the street from Lake Copeland, and is being sold with a lakefront lot.
周边环境：这栋房屋位于科普兰湖历史名胜区(Lake Copeland Historic District)。这是一个容纳了大约100栋平台小屋和都铎式、地中海式、殖民地式别墅的社区，距离奥兰多市中心区一英里（约1.6公里）。这栋房屋位于一条两边种着百年老橡树的断路旁边，这条路的另一侧就是科普兰湖，而且该房屋将连同湖边的一个地块一起出售。
INDOORS: The 1925 house was given a crisp renovation starting in 2008. Original features include hardwood floors and leaded-glass windows; contemporary fixtures include hardware and lighting. On one side of the entryway are a living room and a dining room, spaces delineated by columns. The living room has a custom slate fireplace. On the other side of the entryway is an office.
室内环境：这栋建于1925年的房屋在2008年开始了一场利落的翻修。原有的装修细节包括实木地板和有铅玻璃窗；另外还有一些当代的材料，包括五金和照明。进门的一侧是一间客厅与一间餐厅，分隔这片空间的是几根柱子。这间客厅里有一座用定制的石板砌成的壁炉。进门的另一侧是一间办公室。
The sleekly appointed kitchen has Silestone quartz counters and a counter-to-ceiling tile backsplash, as well as a Wolf range, a Viking refrigerator and custom wine storage. Pantry storage is hidden behind frosted-glass doors. Off the kitchen is a sunny breakfast nook with a built-in banquette. There’s also a large family room, with a custom porcelain fireplace.
这间装修气派、设施齐全的厨房配有赛丽石(Silestone)的石英台面和一块从台面直达天花板的瓷砖挡板，这里还有一个狼牌(Wolf)的炉灶、一台Viking冰箱、以及一个定制的酒窖。餐具储藏间隐藏在磨砂玻璃门的后面。厨房外是一间阳光充足的早餐房，内有一条嵌壁式的长凳。另外还有一间很大的家庭娱乐室，内有一座定制的陶瓷壁炉。
The upstairs master bedroom has a sitting alcove, a wall of built-in Poliform storage and windows overlooking the lake. Also upstairs are the two other bedrooms and a playroom with a chalkboard wall. The upstairs bathroom has marble floors, Hansgrohe fixtures and the original cast-iron tub.
楼上的主卧室中有一处休息区、一面带有嵌壁式Poliform储物柜的墙壁和几扇可以眺望湖景的窗户。楼上还有另外两间卧室和一间带有黑板墙的游戏室。楼上的浴室铺了大理石的地面，装有汉斯格雅(Hansgrohe)的卫浴设施，以及一个原来就有的铸铁浴缸。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house has a deep front porch, as well as a patio off the dining room. There’s also a patio behind the house.
户外空间：这栋房屋有一条宽阔的前门廊，餐厅外还有一处露台。屋后也有一处露台。
TAXES: $5,560 in 2014
税费：2014年的税额为5560美元（约合人民币34525元）
CONTACT: Terry Diederich, Diederich Properties, Keller Williams at the Parks, (407) 415-2315; orlandohistorichome.com
联系方式：Terry Diederich, Diederich Properties，Keller Williams at the Parks地产公司，(407) 415-2315;orlandohistorichome.com
•
BOZEMAN, MONT.
蒙大拿州，博兹曼市(BOZEMAN)
WHAT: A contemporary with three bedrooms and three bathrooms, with a one-bedroom garage apartment
待售房产：一栋三卧三卫的当代住宅，带一套单卧室的车库公寓。
HOW MUCH: $649,000
售价：64.9万美元（约合人民币403万元）
SIZE: 3,636 square feet total
面积：共计3636平方英尺（约338平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $178
每平方英尺单价：178美元（每平方米约合人民币2.3万元）
SETTING: This house is in a residential subdivision at the northwestern edge of Bozeman, a gateway to the Gallatin National Forest and Yellowstone National Park. Most neighboring properties are on a quarter-acre or more, with views of several surrounding mountain ranges, including the Bridger, Spanish Peaks, Gallatin and Tobacco Root. The house is across the street from a 10-acre park with walking trails that connect to a hundred-acre regional park with baseball diamonds and two lakes. Downtown Bozeman and Montana State University are about a 10-minute drive away, the entrance to Gallatin National Forest about 20 minutes.
周边环境：这栋房屋位于博兹曼市西北部边缘的一片住宅用地区。该市是通往加拉廷国家森林(Gallatin National Forest)与黄石国家公园(Yellowstone National Park)的大门。附近的大部分房产都占地四分之一英亩（约1018平方米）或更多，且带有周围几座山脉的景观，其中包括布里杰山脉(Bridger)、西班牙峰(Spanish Peaks)、加拉廷山脉和烟根山脉(Tobacco Root)。这栋房屋的街对面就是一片占地10英亩（约4公顷）公园，那里有几条散步的小径，这座公园连接着一片面积100英亩（约40公顷）、带有几座棒球场和两座湖的山区公园。博兹曼市中心和蒙大拿州立大学(Montana State University)距此约10分钟的车程，而加拉廷国家森林的入口距此约20分钟的车程。
INDOORS: The 2008 two-story house was designed by Intrinsik Architecture of Bozeman. Planned for energy efficiency, it has an insulating stucco exterior partially paneled in reclaimed wood siding, a steel roof, photovoltaic solar panels and plenty of southern exposure for passive solar heating. Most windows face mountains.
室内环境：这栋2008年建造的两层楼房屋由博兹曼Intrinsik建筑公司设计。该房屋出于节能的规划，外墙采用了隔热式的灰泥粉饰，部分地方还镶着可循环利用的木墙板，另外还采用了钢结构的屋顶设计，安装了光伏太阳能板，而且为了被动式太能供暖，有多处朝南的地方可晒到阳光。这栋房屋的大部分窗户都面对着山脉。
The open interior has concrete floors with radiant heating, and walls of plaster and glass. The pitched ceiling in the living room stretches to more than 18 feet. The stainless-steel kitchen appliances are by Fisher & Paykel. Counters are PaperStone, cabinets are faced with bamboo and tiles are made from limestone and recycled glass. The first-floor master suite has sliding glass doors to a courtyard shared with the living room.
屋内的装修采用了开放式设计，有辐射供暖的混凝土地板，和几面石灰与玻璃的墙壁。客厅的斜顶天花板高度超过了18英尺（约5.5米）。厨房的不锈钢电器都是斐雪派克(Fisher & Paykel)品牌的。台面用的是PaperStone品牌，橱柜的表面用了竹质材料，瓷砖是用石灰岩与可再生玻璃做的。一楼的主卧套间安装了推拉玻璃门，可通往一座与客厅共用的庭院。
The other two bedrooms are upstairs, as is a media room with a pitched wood-beam ceiling. The room is wired for surround sound and has an iPod dock. Floors upstairs have radiant heating, too. A deck off the second floor leads to the guest quarters over the garage, which have a bathroom and a second, private entrance. The floor here is Marmoleum, described as a natural linoleum made from wood pulp, rosin and oils.
另外两间卧室位于楼上，那里还有一间带木梁斜顶天花板的媒体影音室。这个房间布置了环绕立体声，有一台iPod底座。楼上的地板也带有辐射供暖系统。二楼外面的平台通往车库上的客用公寓，那里有一间浴室，还有另一处私家通道。这层楼的地面铺的是一种用木浆、松香与油脂制成的福尔波(Marmoleum)牌天然漆布地板。
OUTDOOR SPACE: A south-facing courtyard is off the kitchen, and another courtyard off the dining room has a fire pit. A third courtyard is between the master bedroom and living room. The lot is a quarter-acre.
户外空间：厨房外面有一座朝南的院子，而在餐厅外的另一座庭院里有个火坑。第三座庭院在主卧与客厅之间。该地块占地四分之一英亩（约1018平方米）。
TAXES: Approximately $4,387 a year
税费：每年约4387美元（约合人民币27241元）。
CONTACT: Lori Garden, Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Montana Properties, (310) 430-0015; bhhsmt.com
联系方式：Lori Garden, Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Montana Properties, (310) 430-0015;bhhsmt.com