HONG KONG — In many places, $664,000 can buy you a nice house. For that price in Hong Kong, you can buy a slab of concrete, roughly 17 feet long and 11 feet wide, to leave your luxury car.
香港——在许多地方，66.4万美元（约合452万元人民币）可以买到一套漂亮的房子。但这个价钱在香港只能买到一块约5米长、3.3米宽的水泥地，用来停你的豪车。
Hong Kong is now home to a very expensive parking spot, the latest sign of a property market run amok. Even in a city well accustomed to costly real estate, the price spiral has confounded the most experienced observers.
香港如今已成为停车位最贵的地方，这是当地房地产市场过热的一个最新标志。即使在这个对昂贵的房地产市场已经习以为常的城市，地价的攀升也让最有经验的观察人士大惑不解。
“This is basically the price of one flat in Hong Kong,” said Lennon Choy, an associate professor of real estate and construction at the University of Hong Kong. “This is crazy, actually.”
“这基本上是香港一套公寓的价格，”香港大学房地产及建设系副教授蔡鸿达说。“真是疯了。”
The buyer was listed as Kwan Wai-ming, whom local news outlets identified as executive director of the Huarong Investment Stock Corporation. His company declined to comment. That price, paid for a spot in an apartment complex on Hong Kong Island, was a new local record, breaking the previous $615,000 paid for a slightly smaller spot last year.
买主登记的名字是关伟明，当地新闻报道说他是华融投资股份有限公司的执行董事。他的公司拒绝对此置评。这个价格买下的停车位在港岛的一座公寓楼里，是香港停车位的新纪录，打破了去年一块略小车位的61.5万美元的买价。
The huge price paid for a single parking spot illustrates the broader rise in real estate values. By some measures, Hong Kong is already the world’s most expensive housing market per square foot.
为单个停车位付出如此巨大的价钱显示了香港房地产价格上涨的更大范围的问题。用某种方式计算，香港已经是世界上每平方英尺价钱最高的住房市场。
While the run-up has enriched property owners and developers, it has led to widespread worries that a generation of young residents will be unable to afford a home.
虽然价格的飞涨让业主和开发商发了财，但也引了普遍的担忧，人们担心新一代的年轻居民将负担不起这种房价。
A number of causes explain the run-up. A dense city spread over rocky islands and a peninsula that borders mainland China, Hong Kong has had a surge in investment from mainlanders looking for a relatively safe place to park their money. City officials tightly control the market for new land parcels, exacerbating supply limits.
房价飞涨有许多原因。香港由有山的岛以及与大陆接壤的半岛组成，城市人口密度已经很高，大陆居民投到香港的资金正在激增，大陆人想为自己的财产寻找一个比较安全的地方。同时香港官员严格控制新地块的市场，加剧了供应的紧张。
As mainland developers have increased competition with longtime Hong Kong property giants, land prices have set records. And property developers are encouraging potential buyers by directly offering mortgages in competition with local banks.
由于大陆开发商已经加强了与香港老牌房地产巨头的竞争，地价多次创下记录。房地产开发商也在与当地银行竞争，通过直接向潜在买家提供抵押贷款的方式鼓励他们买房。
New fees on out-of-town buyers and tighter rules on money leaving mainland China have done little to contain the rising prices.
对外来买家征收的新费用、以及中国大陆收紧资金出境的做法对香港房价的上涨几乎没有作用。
The run-up is leading to worries about a damaging crash. Last month, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, which acts as the central bank, tightened mortgage lending rules in an effort to tame the market.
房价飞涨也带来另一种担心，即房市崩溃给经济造成的损害。上个月，作为给市场降温的一种努力，香港金融管理局收紧抵押贷款规则，金管局相当于香港的中央银行。
“The risk of overheating in the property market in Hong Kong continues to increase,” Norman Chan, the authority’s chief executive, said in a statement last month. He added, “I would like to remind the public that, for most people, buying a property is not only one of the most important decisions in life, it is also a financial transaction entailing significant leverage through borrowing.”
“香港房地产市场过热的风险继续上升，”金管局总裁陈德霖上月在一份声明中说。他还说：“我想提醒市民，对大多数人而言，置业不只是生活中最重要的决定之一，也是一个高杠杆和大额财务的金融交易。”
For his money, Mr. Kwan may get convenience. He already owns property in the same apartment complex where the parking spot is situated, called the Upton, in the Sai Ying Pun district. He previously bought two apartments for $9.7 million and two other parking spots in the complex for $995,000, according to the Hong Kong land registry.
关伟明花的钱可能为他买来了方便。他已经在西营盘区那个名为“维港峰”(Upton)的楼盘拥有房产。根据香港土地注册处，他以前曾花970万美元在那里买了两套公寓，还花了99.5万美元买下了两个停车位。
Such an expensive parking spot may seem excessive in a city where transportation can be cheap. Hong Kong has a world-class mass transit system, and a passenger can cross Hong Kong Island for $1.30 on the subway, or — with a little patience — 30 cents by tram.
如此昂贵的停车位，对这个公共交通便宜的城市看说，似乎有点过头。香港拥有世界一流的公共交通系统，乘客花1.3美元就可以从香岛的一头到另一头，或者有耐心的话，乘有轨电车只需30美分。
But some wealthy residents revel in the recognition that comes with a Lamborghini or even a coveted license plate. Last year, a plate carrying the number 28, which sounds like a phrase for “easy money” in Cantonese, sold for a record $2.3 million at auction.
但一些富裕的居民痴迷于兰博基尼、或令人垂涎的车牌引起的羡慕。去年，一个号码中有28的车牌，以230万美元的价格拍卖成交，28用粤语读与“易发”谐音。
Of course, Hong Kong may not be unique. One New York City developer once asked $1 million for a place to park.
当然香港可能并不独一无二。纽约市的一位开发商曾给一个停车位开价100万美元。