A 66-year-old retiree in Chongqing said she was blocked from opening an online store on China’s popular Taobao e-commerce site because of her age, a local newspaper reported.
据一家当地报纸报道，重庆一位66岁的退休人员说，她想在中国受欢迎的淘宝电子商务网站开在线商店，但由于自己年龄的原因被拒。
The Chongqing Evening News on Monday quoted the woman as saying: “Other people at my age all like to go out dancing in public. I just like to go online.” It reported that the woman, whom it identified by pseudonym Qin Huafang, tried four times to open an online store to sell tea, but was rejected each time because of a rule that requires vendors to be between 18 and 65.
《重庆晚报》周一援引这位女子的话说，“别人到了这个年纪，都爱去跳坝坝舞，我却喜欢上网。”该报道说，这位化名秦华芳的妇女曾四次试图开网上商店卖茶叶，但每次都被拒，因为有一条规定要求卖主年龄在18岁到65岁之间。
However, a spokeswoman for Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant that operates Taobao, said that while the company has a minimum age of 18 for Taobao vendors, there is no maximum age limit. “While we do not comment on individual sellers and cannot confirm the authenticity of the report, we have no such policy in place,” the company said in a statement.
然而，运作淘宝网的中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴的一位女发言人表示，虽然公司对淘宝卖主有18岁的最低年龄限制，但没有最高年龄限制。公司在一份声明中表示，“虽然我们不会就个别卖主发表评论，也无法确认该报道的真实性，但我们没有那个政策。”
Among Taobao’s vendors is a 76-year-old man who sells traditional Chinese lamps, the company’s Alizila newsletter reported last year.
公司的Alizila新闻网站去年曾报道，淘宝卖主中包括一位销售中国传统灯笼的76岁男子。
According to the newspaper, Ms. Qin said that she had been retired for several years, and in her spare time began using a home computer to read the news, send emails and explore social media. She hit upon the idea of opening an online store after seeing the success of her nieces and nephews. Her plan was to sell a type of oolong tea from Guangdong Province that she sourced from a friend, the newspaper reported.
据《重庆晚报》报道，秦华芳说，她已经退休好几年了，在闲暇之余，她开始用一台家用电脑看新闻，发电子邮件，玩社交媒体。她看到侄子和侄女获得成功后，有了开设网上商店的想法。她的计划是出售从朋友那里采购的一种广东省的乌龙茶，该报道说。
She applied to set up her store several times starting in May, but was automatically rejected each time because of unspecified “security issues.” When a Chongqing Evening News reporter contacted Taobao, a customer service representative said the company had rules limiting stores to people between the ages of 18 and 65. “The customer service representative said this sort of restriction is a company rule, perhaps because e-commerce is relatively hard and unsuitable for old people,” the newspaper wrote.
自5月份起，她多次申请开设商店，但每次都因未指明的“安全问题”被系统自动拒绝。当《重庆晚报》记者联系淘宝网时，一位客户服务代表说，公司规定卖主的年龄限制为18至65岁。该报写道，“客服称这是公司的规定，可能是因为电商行业比较辛苦，不适合老年人。”