Here is a guide to understanding Britain's vote to leave the European Union, a decision known as “Brexit” that will have global consequences for years to come.
这是一篇指南文章，帮助读者理解英国脱离欧盟的公投结果，即“Brexit”。在未来多年里，这一决定将带来诸多全球影响。
What happened?
究竟发生了什么？
More than 17.4 million Britons voted to sever ties with the European Union, whose seat of power lies in Brussels, compared with 16.1 million who voted to remain.
超过1740万英国人投票选择切断与总部位于布鲁塞尔的欧盟的关系。相比之下，投票选择留在欧盟的人数为1610万人。
The stunning vote, 52 percent to 48 percent, plunged world financial markets into turmoil, the political consequences for the prime minister of Britain were swift, and people around the globe reacted with shock and confusion. It would be the first time any country has left the bloc.
52%对48%这个令人震惊的投票结果导致全球金融市场猛然间陷入混乱。此事给英国首相带来的政治后果也非常迅疾。世界各地的人为之惊讶和困惑。这将是首次有成员国离开欧盟。
Why did it happen?
为什么会出现这种情况？
Fear of being overrun by immigrants was a driving concern for “Leave” voters, who appeared to dominate the conversation on social media. Globalization concerns and a desire to wrest Britain from under Brussels’ thumb were also factors.
担心大批移民涌入是促使英国人投票支持“脱欧”的一大动因，这类人似乎主导了社交媒体上的相关讨论。对全球化的担忧和想让英国摆脱布鲁塞尔指令的渴望也是原因所在。
The referendum came about as a result of a promise made in 2013 by Prime Minister David Cameron to appease an increasingly vocal anti-European Union wing of his Conservative Party.
举行这次公投是英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)于2013年做出的一项承诺带来的结果。当时卡梅伦是为安抚他所在的保守党内越来越有声势的反欧盟力量。
The immediate fallout
直接后果
■ The prime minister said he would step down. Mr. Cameron, who led the “Remain” campaign, announced on Friday that he had no "precise timetable" but that he believed his successor — who will manage the process of leaving the union — should be in place by October.
■ 卡梅伦表示他将辞职。上周五，领导“留欧”阵营的卡梅伦宣布他还没有“准确的时间表”，但他相信自己的继任者——将负责处理脱欧事宜——应该会在10月底前上任。
Boris Johnson, the former mayor of London who backed leaving the E.U., is considered a front-runner to succeed Mr. Cameron.
支持脱欧的伦敦前市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)被认为是很有可能继任英国首相的人选。
■ Global markets plunged. The British pound plummeted to its lowest level since 1985. Investors fled to the American dollar and the yen.
■ 全球市场大跌。英镑暴跌至1985年以来的最低点。投资者纷纷逃离，转而买入美元和日元。
The U.S. market was down more than 3 percent at the close on Friday, with the Dow shedding over 600 points, after sell-offs overnight in Japan and Hong Kong. The financial damage was more severe on the Continent than in Britain and the United States.
继日本和香港投资者连夜抛售之后，美国市场在周五收盘时下挫逾3%，道琼斯指数暴跌600多个点。欧洲大陆遭受的金融损失比英国和美国更加严重。
Is it a done deal?
脱欧已是板上钉钉吗？
■ The referendum is not legally binding, though it is difficult to imagine that the British government would ignore the will of the voters.
■ 此次公投并没有法律约束力，不过难以想象英国政府会无视选民的意愿。
The process of leaving begins only after the British government invokes a provision of the European Union’s governing treaty known as Article 50 — an action Mr. Cameron said he would leave to his successor.
英国政府按照欧盟条约的第50条提出申请之后，退出程序才会启动。卡梅伦表示，这个任务将留待他的继任者执行。
Once Article 50 is invoked, though, Britain could not change its mind and stay in the union unless the 27 other members all agreed.
不过，一旦启动第50条，英国就不能再改变主意，要求继续留在欧盟，除非获得其他27个成员国的一致同意。
The broader impact
更广泛的影响
■ Britain would leave the world’s largest common market, with 508 million residents, including 65 million Britons. That would free them from the bloc’s commitment to the free movement of labor, capital, goods and services.
■ 英国将脱离全球最大的共同市场。该市场有5.08亿居民，其中包括6500万英国人。英国将不再承担欧盟有关劳动力、资本、商品和服务自由流通的义务。
But it would also bring complications, with some businesses already planning to relocate.
不过，这一决策也会带来问题。一些企业已经开始计划搬迁。
■ Little will change for at least two years, but the vote sets off a series of negotiations as the country separates from the union’s remaining 27 members.
■ 至少两年内，不会出现太大的变化，但随着英国与欧盟其他27个成员国分开，一系列谈判将在公投后展开。
Britain, which has the bloc’s second-largest economy after Germany, would have to come up with new trading agreements. Almost half its exports are sold on Europe’s common market.
作为仅次于德国的欧盟第二大经济体，英国将必须达成各种新的贸易协议。英国的出口产品目前几乎有一半销往欧洲的共同市场。
■ London’s role as a financial center could be imperiled, particularly if the trade in euro-denominated securities moves to rival cities like Paris and Frankfurt.
■ 伦敦作为金融中心的地位可能会遭到威胁。如果以欧元计价的证券交易转移到巴黎和法兰克福等对手城市，情况更是如此。
■ The immediate effect on travel will be limited, especially as Britain was not a member of the passport-free Schengen zone, which came under heavy pressure last year from the refugee crisis. Americans will find bargains in travel to Britain, because of more favorable exchange rates.
■ 对旅行的直接影响会比较有限，尤其考虑到英国并不属于免护照通行的申根区。去年，申根区国家因移民危机开始承受巨大的压力。由于汇率更加有利，美国人前往英国旅行将更加便宜。
■ Britain’s security will be largely unaffected: It remains a nuclear power, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and a leader of NATO.
■ 英国的安全基本不会受到影响：它依然是核武国家、联合国安理会常任理事国和北约(NATO)领导者之一。
■ Scotland and Northern Ireland could go their own way. Both voted overwhelmingly to stay in the E.U. But prominent political leaders in Scotland and Northern Ireland called on Friday for new moves toward separating from Britain.
■ 苏格兰和北爱尔兰都有可能采取自己的行动。两地的绝大多数人投票支持留在欧盟。苏格兰和北爱尔兰的重量级政治领袖上周五呼吁采取新的行动，争取脱离英国。
Scotland, which voted in 2014 to remain in the United Kingdom, may revisit that referendum.
在2014年的公投中，苏格兰决定留在联合王国。它有可能再次要求就此举行公投。
Northern Ireland has an open border with the Republic of Ireland, a member of the bloc. Border crossings could now be tightened, and pressure could increase for unification, prompting instability in both places.
北爱尔兰一直与欧盟成员国爱尔兰开放边境。现在越境政策可能会收紧，二者统一的压力或许将增强，从而加大两地的不稳定因素。
The reaction
外界的反应
■ President Obama said in a statement: “The people of the United Kingdom have spoken, and we respect their decision.” He pledged that the U.K. and the E.U. would remain “indispensable partners of the United States” and that Britain’s “special relationship” with the United States would endure.
■ 美国总统奥巴马在声明中表示：“英国民众已经表态。我们尊重他们的决定。”他承诺英国和欧盟仍将是“美国不可或缺的合作伙伴”，英国与美国的“特殊关系”还会延续下去。
■ Hillary Clinton: “We respect the choice the people of the United Kingdom have made. Our first task has to be to make sure that the economic uncertainty created by these events does not hurt working families here in America.”
■ 希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)：“我们尊重英国民众的选择。我们的第一要务必须是确保这些事件带来的经济不确定性不会损害美国工薪家庭的利益。”
■ Donald J. Trump: “I said this was going to happen, and I think that it’s a great thing.”
■ 唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)：“我说过会发生这事，我认为这是一件大好事。”
The British people “have declared their independence from the European Union, and have voted to reassert control over their own politics, borders and economy,” Mr. Trump said. “A Trump administration pledges to strengthen our ties with a free and independent Britain.” 
不列颠人民“宣布从欧盟独立，投票重新获得了自己对政治、边境和经济的控制，”他说。“特朗普政府承诺将加强与自由独立的英国之间的关系。”
■ Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany expressed disappointment with the vote and called for European unity. “Our goal should be to create a future relationship between Great Britain and the European Union that is close and partner-like.”
■ 德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)表示对投票结果感到失望，并呼吁欧洲团结起来。“我们的目标应该是，今后在大不列颠与欧盟之间建立起亲密和合作的关系。”
■ Moscow maintained its stance that the British referendum was of little direct concern. President Vladimir V. Putin said, “This will certainly have consequences for Britain, for Europe and for us. The consequences will be global, they are inevitable; they will be both positive and negative.”
■ 莫斯科维持对英国公投几乎漠不关心的立场。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)称，“这对英国、欧洲和我们肯定会有影响。其后果将是全球性的，也是不可避免的；其中有正面的，也有负面的。”
■ The French far-right cheered the vote, with Marine Le Pen, the leader of the National Front party, vowing to push for a similar referendum there.
■ 法国极右翼欢庆英国公投的结果。国民阵线(National Front)领导人马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)发誓要推动法国进行类似的公投。