WASHINGTON — Federal authorities said Monday that they had broken up an Islamic State recruitment ring in Minnesota, arresting six young Somali-American men who tried for months to travel to Syria to join the terrorist group.
华盛顿——美国联邦机构本周一表示，他们已经在明尼苏达州打掉了伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的一个招募点，逮捕了六名年轻的索马里裔男子。在过去数月中，这些人试图前往叙利亚参加该恐怖组织。
Some of the men persisted in attempting to get to the group even after they had been prevented from flying out of Kennedy International Airport in New York and one of their friends was arrested and charged.
其中一些人坚持尝试投奔伊斯兰国，即便在这一过程中他们被阻止乘飞机离开纽约肯尼迪国际机场，以及一个朋友遭到逮捕和起诉。
All of those charged were Somali-Americans ages 19-21 from Minneapolis, where four were arrested Sunday. The other two were detained in San Diego, where officials said they had driven to obtain fraudulent travel documents, hoping to cross into Mexico and continue to Syria from there.
这次遭到指控的全都是明尼阿波利斯的索马里裔美国人，年龄在19至21之间，其中四人在周日被捕。另外两人被关押在圣地亚哥。那里的官员表示，他们乘车去拿伪造的旅行证件，希望越境进入墨西哥，然后从那里前往叙利亚。
Andrew M. Luger, the U.S. attorney for Minnesota, said at a news conference that a linchpin in the recruitment effort was a young man, Abdi Nur, 21, who left Minneapolis in May and successfully reached Syria. Nur, whose story was recounted by The New York Times last month, was “an active recruiter” who offered both inspiration and practical advice to those who wanted to follow his path, Luger said.
明尼苏达州联邦检察官安德鲁·M·卢杰(Andrew M. Luger)在新闻发布会上说，这场招募活动中的一个关键人物是21岁的阿卜迪·努尔(Abdi Nur)，他去年5月离开明尼阿波利斯，顺利到达叙利亚。《纽约时报》上月曾讲述过努尔的故事。卢杰说，努尔是“一个活跃的招募人员”，对于那些想要追随这条道路的人，他不仅从心理上加以怂恿，而且也提供实用的建议。
In a 10-month investigation, the FBI managed to penetrate the circle of friends and relatives who met regularly to plot their departure. During that time one young man had a change of heart and approached the FBI. He became an informant and recorded some of the discussions, Luger said.
在为期10个月的调查中，美国联邦调查局(FBI)成功地渗透进了这个由亲戚和朋友组成的圈子，他们定期聚会，谋划如何离开。在此期间，一名年轻男子回心转意，主动接触了FBI。他成为一名线人，并在一些讨论中录了音，卢杰说。
The top FBI agent in Minneapolis, Richard T. Thornton, praised the informant and others in the Somali community who assisted the agency in trying to stop the recruiting, calling them “courageous” for acting against a terrorist group he called “evil at its core.”
明尼阿波利斯的高级FBI特工理查德·T·桑顿(Richard T. Thornton)称赞了线人以及索马里裔社区的一些人，因为他们协助FBI，尝试阻止招募活动。桑顿说他们“勇敢”地对抗了一个“邪恶透顶”的恐怖组织。
Some speculation about Islamic State recruiting in Minneapolis had surrounded a local man, Amir Meshal, 31, who had been expelled from two mosques and publicly accused of radicalizing young Muslims. Meshal had vehemently denied supporting the terrorist group, and neither he nor anyone else outside the group of six young Islamic State admirers was charged.
有人猜测，明尼阿波利斯的伊斯兰国招募活动和31岁的当地男子阿米尔·马沙尔(Amir Meshal)关系极大。此人遭到过两座清真寺的驱除，并被公开指责为激进的年轻穆斯林。马沙尔曾极力否认支持伊斯兰国，除了那六个该恐怖组织的仰慕者，无论是他，还是其他人，都没有遭到指控。
Instead, Luger said, the recruitment was “a peer-to-peer operation” in which friends compared notes on how to raise money for airline tickets, evade FBI scrutiny and connect with Islamic State travel facilitators in Turkey.
卢杰说，这个招募活动其实是“同龄人对同龄人的行动”：朋友之间交换看法，讨论如何筹集机票钱、逃避FBI审查，以及如何在土耳其和伊斯兰国的行程接洽者联络。
Arrested in Minneapolis were Zacharia Yusuf Abdurahman, 19; Adnan Farah, 19; Hanad Mustafe Musse, 19; and Guled Ali Omar, 20. The two men arrested in San Diego were identified as Abdirahman Yasin Daud, 21, and Mohamed Abdihamid Farah, 21. All were charged with conspiring to provide material support to a designated terrorist organization.
在明尼阿波利斯遭到逮捕的四人是19岁的泽查利·优素福·阿卜杜勒拉赫曼(Zacharia Yusuf Abdurahman)、阿德南·法拉(Adnan Farah)、汉纳德·穆斯塔夫·穆塞(Hanad Mustafe Musse)，以及20岁的古利德·阿里·奥马尔(Guled Ali Omar)。在圣地亚哥被逮捕的是21岁的阿布迪拉赫曼·亚辛·达乌德(Abdirahman Yasin Daud)和穆罕默德·阿布迪哈米德·法拉赫(Mohamed Abdihamid Farah)。六人都被指控图谋为已被认定的恐怖组织提供物质支持。
A few dozen Americans have traveled or tried to travel to Syria to join the Islamic State. Those whose plans were discovered by the FBI have been arrested, usually at a U.S. airport as they tried to board a flight, and charged with supporting a terrorist organization.
已经有几十名美国人前往或试图前往叙利亚加入伊斯兰国。前往计划被FBI发现的人遭到了逮捕，通常他们是在美国机场试图登机时遭到逮捕，并被控支持恐怖组织。
Americans trying to join the Islamic State have been a diverse group, including many women, with ages ranging from the early teens to late 40s, and comprising both converts to Islam and children from Muslim immigrant families. The largest single group, however, has consisted of Somali-Americans from Minnesota, a community that experienced a previous wave of young men departing to fight with al-Shabab, the al-Qaida affiliate in Somalia.
试图加入伊斯兰国的美国人群比较多元化，其中有很多女性，年龄范围在十几岁到近五十岁之间，既有一些皈依伊斯兰教的人，也有穆斯林移民家庭的孩子。但最大的单一群体还是明尼苏达州的索马里裔美国人。这个社区之前就曾有一波年轻男子前往索马里投奔青年党(al-Shabab)。青年党是基地组织(al-Qaida)在索马里的附属组织。
The FBI has been intensively investigating how the Islamic State recruiting has worked, and whether the sophisticated social media campaign of the terrorist group is supplemented by face-to-face recruiting on the ground in the United States.
FBI已经在对伊斯兰国的招募方式进行深入研究，调查该恐怖组织除了在社交媒体上娴熟地开展宣传攻势之外，是否还在美国境内进行面对面的招募。
For the first time Monday, officials underscored their suspicion that Nur played a prominent role in recruitment. Nur periodically posted online photos and messages about his life with the Islamic State on Twitter, Ask.fm and other sites. Shortly before Nur flew from Minneapolis late in May, his friend, Abdullahi Yusuf, then 18, was prevented from boarding his flight.
本周一，官员们首次强调称，他们怀疑努尔在招募中发挥了突出作用。努尔经常在Twitter上，Ask.fm等网站上发布照片和消息，展现他在伊斯兰国的生活。努尔去年5月底从明尼阿波利斯乘飞机离开前不久，他的朋友、当时18岁的阿卜杜拉希·优素福(Abdullahi Yusuf)在登机前遭到阻止。
Both men were charged in November with attempting to provide material support for terrorism, but their fates have diverged sharply. Yusuf has pleaded guilty and awaits sentencing. Over prosecutors' objections, a judge has permitted him to live in a halfway house under close supervision, and advocates are working closely with him in what is seen as a national test case for deradicalization.
去年11月，他们被控试图为恐怖主义提供物质支持，但两人的命运相差悬殊。优素福已经认罪并等待宣判结果。虽然遭到检察官反对，但法官已同意他在受到严密监督的情况下住在过渡教习所；这个案子成为了“去激进化”的国家级测试，权益倡导者正与优素福开展密切合作。
In a pattern seen in other cases as well, Nur and Yusuf each suddenly obtained about $1,500 cash that they used to buy airline tickets. A central question in their case was whether they got the money from a well-heeled Islamic State recruiter. But Luger said the six men arrested Sunday “helped each other with funding,” selling a car and emptying a college financial aid account.
努尔和优素福突然分别获得了1500美元（约合人民币9000元）现金，用于购买机票，其他案件中也多次出现这样的情况。该案的一个核心问题是：他们是否从富有的伊斯兰国招募者那里得到了这些钱。不过，卢杰说，周日逮捕的这六名男子“在资金上互相帮助”，出售了一辆车，并取光了一个大学财政援助帐户里的钱。