HONG KONG — A powerful earthquake shook Nepal on Tuesday, less than three weeks after a devastating temblor there killed more than 8,000 people. Early details were scarce, but some deaths and collapsed buildings were reported.
新德里——周二下午，尼泊尔发生强烈地震，这距离上一次该国发生的造成超过8000人死亡的灾难性地震仅不到三周。地震已造成数十人死亡，逾一千人受伤。
Residents of Kathmandu reported that buildings swayed in the earthquake, which was felt as far away as New Delhi. The United States Geological Survey assigned the quake on Tuesday a preliminary magnitude of 7.3, with an epicenter about 50 miles east of Kathmandu, near the border with China. The April 25 earthquake registered magnitude 7.8 and was centered west of Kathmandu.
加德满都的居民称，地震发生时建筑发生摇晃。远在印度的新德里有震感。美国地质调查局(The United States Geological Survey)报告称周二的地震初步估计震级为7.3级，震中位于加德满都以东约50英里（约80.5千米）处，接近尼泊尔与中国的边境。发生在4月25日的地震震级为7.8级，震中位于加德满都以西。
“We’re obviously hearing of buildings destroyed, buildings collapsed, buildings falling, we’re hearing about casualties, but the numbers are not known yet,” said Jamie McGoldrick, Nepal resident coordinator for the United Nations Development Program. He said several international rescue teams, including American and Indian teams, were still in Kathmandu but had not yet been asked to deploy.
“我们明显听到有建筑被毁，建筑发生倒塌或降落，也听到有关于人员遇难的消息，但目前具体人数不确定，” 联合国开发计划署驻尼泊尔的协调员杰米·麦戈德里克(Jamie McGoldrick)说。据他介绍，加德满都仍有若干个国际救援队驻守，包括美国和印度的救援队，但是没有被请求调遣。
Minendra Rijal, Nepal’s minister for information and communications, said that while information was still coming in, the death toll did not appear to be high. About 500 injuries were reported in the Kathmandu Valley, he said.
据尼泊尔国家紧急行动中心(National Emergency Operation Center)周二傍晚消息，地震已造成42人死亡，1117人受伤 。
Four people died in Chautara, a town in the Sindhupalchowk district east of Kathmandu where several buildings collapsed, said Paul Dillon, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration. “A search and rescue crew of some locals and international groups are digging through rubble as best they can,” Mr. Dillon said.
在加德满都东部的辛杜帕尔乔克(Sindhupalchowk)的城镇焦德拉(Chautara)，一些建筑倒塌，四人死亡，国际移民组织(International Organization for Migration)的发言人保罗·狄伦(Paul Dillon) 介绍说，当地居民和国际组织人员组成的搜救队正在废墟中尽全力挖掘。
Many families have moved back into their apartments, after living under tents for the week after the first quake.
很多家庭第一次地震之后露宿了一周，现在已经返回家中。
Bikash Suwal, a trekking guide in Kathmandu, said that he and other colleagues had fled from an office on the fourth floor of a building and sought safety in the open. He said that he had not seen any buildings fall or people injured.
加德满都的徒步旅行导游比卡什·苏瓦尔(Bikash Suwal)在电话采访中介绍，地震发生时，他和他的同事从位于一栋建筑四层的办公室逃出，到空地寻找安全。他说，没有看到建筑倒塌或者人员受伤。