Apple is widely expected to introduce a smaller, cheaper version of its iPad on Tuesday, perhaps in response to the crop of 7-inch tablets that have popped up in the last year. But how are those tablets even doing anyway?
人们广泛期待苹果将于周二推出一款更小、更便宜的iPad，也许是为了回应过去一年里涌现的多款7英寸平板电脑。但是，此类平板电脑在市场上表现如何呢？
It turns out that the number of seven-inch tablets sold by each of Apple's major competitors is small compared to the number of iPads it has sold.
事实上，苹果各主要竞争对手销售的7英寸平板电脑数量，都无法与iPad的销量相提并论。
To date, Apple has sold about 84 million iPads. Amazon's Kindle Fire, the second-best-selling tablet, has sold about seven million units; Barnes and Noble has sold about five million Nook tablets; and Google has sold about three million Nexus 7 tablets, according to estimates by Forrester.
至今，苹果已经售出了大约8400万台iPad。据研究机构弗雷斯特(Forrester)估计，销量第二大的平板电脑——亚马逊(Amazon) Kindle Fire售出大约700万台，巴诺书店(Barnes and Noble)售出大约500万台Nook平板电脑，而谷歌(Google)售出大约300万台Nexus 7平板电脑。
That's about 15 million tablets across three companies. And while no single company presents a major threat to Apple yet, it's not a number to sneeze at - after all, that's 15 million more iPads that Apple could have sold. So it makes sense that the company is preparing its own smaller tablet at a lower price, said Sarah Rotman Epps, a Forrester analyst.
这三种产品的销量总和达到大约1500万台。尽管没有一家企业对苹果构成重大威胁，但这个数字也不可小觑。毕竟，如果没有它们，苹果本来也许能够多售出1500万台iPad。因此，弗雷斯特的分析师莎拉·罗特曼-埃普斯(Sarah Rotman Epps)说，苹果准备以较低价推出小平板电脑是有道理的。
"Apple is smart to be acting before it gets to be more of a problem," she said.
“苹果在问题还未变得更大时就采取行动，此举相当明智，”她说。
Steve Jobs once dismissed seven-inch tablets, saying they were "tweeners" that were too big to compete with a smartphone and too small to compete with an iPad. Several sources have said Apple's smaller iPad will be 7.85 inches, which is a bit bigger than 7 inches but might still be considered a "tweener." Would these sell nearly as well as the current iPad?
史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)曾经对7英寸平板电脑嗤之以鼻，称之为四不像。说它太大了，无法与智能手机竞争。但比起iPad又太小了。多名消息人士表示，苹果的小iPad将是7.85英寸，虽然比7英寸要大，但你仍然可以称它为四不像。它的销量能与现在的iPad相比吗？
Stephen Baker, an analyst with the NPD Group, thinks smaller tablets are a viable category because they cater to people who don't want to spend too much money on a tablet, or those who just want something smaller to carry with them everywhere.
NPD集团(NPD Group) 分析师斯蒂芬·贝克(Stephen Baker)认为小平板电脑是一个可行的类型。有些人不愿意在平板电脑上花太多钱，还有一些人就需要一个更小的平板电脑随身携带，小平板电脑可以满足他们的需要。