The opening of the new Museum of War Crime Evidence by Japanese Army Unit 731 on Aug. 15 in Harbin in northeast China was timed to coincide with the 70th anniversary of Japan’s surrender in World War II, part of commemorations across China that included a major Victory Day military parade in Beijing on Sept. 3.The museum in the district of Pingfang enlarges an earlier one on the site where Japanese doctors of Unit 731 carried out medical atrocities on prisoners that rivaled in brutality, or perhaps even surpassed, those committed by Dr. Josef Mengele in Nazi Germany. During a visit last month, workers were still finishing a giant metal canopy that covered the excavated remains of cells where thousands of prisoners lived and died in horrific ways, including by vivisection and by deliberate infection with plague bacteria.
8月15日，新建成的侵华日军第七三一部队罪证陈列馆在哈尔滨对外开放。这一天正好是日本二战投降70周年。中国各地举行了一系列纪念活动，包括9月3日在北京举行的胜利日阅兵，陈列馆的对外开放也是其中的一部分。 该馆位于哈尔滨平房区，是在旧址的基础上扩建而成的。当年，日本731部队的医生就是在那里针对囚犯进行了医学实验。那些暴行的残忍程度堪比，甚至超过了约瑟夫·门格勒(Josef Mengele)在纳粹德国的所作所为。上月去陈列馆时，工作人员仍在处理一个大金属篷的表面。金属篷下面，是挖掘出来的牢房废墟。成千上万名犯人曾在那些牢房里生活，并以骇人听闻的方式死去，死因包括活体解剖和被人故意传染上瘟疫细菌。
According to Gao Yubao, the museum’s head of research, the curators were motivated by a desire to present an accurate picture of history. The museum’s message is clear: Biological warfare was Japanese national policy, and the United States covered it up in exchange for information, without bringing a single perpetrator to justice.
据陈列馆研究陈列部主任高玉宝介绍，准确呈现历史画面的愿望激励着策展人员。陈列馆要传递的信息很明确：生物战是日本的国策，美国为换取情报而隐瞒真相，没把任何相关凶手绳之以法。
Complicating that picture is the fact that the experiments, led by Dr. Shiro Ishii, on Chinese, Korean, Russian and American prisoners is also a focus of China’s highly ideological “patriotic education.” A visitor book at the museum, for instance, records mostly stock patriotic phrases like, “Never forget the national humiliation!”
石井四郎(Shiro Ishii)领导的在中国、韩国、俄罗斯和美国士兵身上进行的实验，也是中国意识形态色彩浓厚的“爱国教育”关注的焦点。这个事实让情况变得复杂。比如，陈列馆游客留言簿里写的，大多是常见的“勿忘国耻”这种爱国言论。
Here’s what two other historians, one American and one Japanese, said of the new museum:
以下是两位分别来自美国和日本的历史学家对新陈列馆的看法：
“The Chinese state uses history to its own purposes, as do other countries, and it has a level of control that is way up in the stratosphere,” said Mark Selden, a senior research associate in the East Asia Program at Cornell University and co-editor of “Japan’s Wartime Medical Atrocities.” Yet, he added, “We have to respect the historical data in particular situations.”
“中国政府会利用历史达成自己的目的，这和其他国家一样，但该国政府所掌握的控制权非常之大，”康奈尔大学东亚项目(East Asia Program at Cornell University)高级助理研究员、《日本战时医学暴行》(Japan’s Wartime Medical Atrocities)的联席主编马克·塞尔登(Mark Selden)说。但他接着表示，“我们不得不尊重特定情况下的历史数据。”
Tsuneishi Keiichi, a contributor to “Japan’s Wartime Medical Atrocities” and author of “Unit 731: The Truth about Biological Weapons and Crimes” said: “I have not met a Chinese researcher who has studied the history of 731 Unit seriously. So I do not expect anything of the new museum. I think there is no really reliable and authentic research material on Shiro Ishii’s biological warfare activities in China. Those are in Japanese libraries and Japanese National Archives, and in the U.S. National Archives and the Library of Congress.”
《日本战时医学暴行》的撰稿人、《731部队：生物武器犯罪真相》(Unit 731: The Truth about Biological Weapons and Crimes)的作者常石敬一(Tsuneishi Keiichi)说：“我没遇到过认真研究731部队历史的中国研究人员。因此我对新陈列馆不抱任何期望。我觉得关于石井四郎在中国的生物战活动，没有真正可靠、真实的研究材料。那些材料都在日本的图书馆和日本国立公文馆(Japanese National Archives)，以及美国国家档案局(United States National Archives)和国会图书馆(Library of Congress)里。”
In an interview, Mr. Gao explained the thinking behind the museum:
在采访中，高玉宝解释了陈列馆背后的想法：
Q. Why build a new museum about Unit 731?
问：为什么要修一座新的和731部队有关的陈列馆？
A. Unit 731 committed large-scale, systematic crimes against humanity and ethnicity. Those crimes must be revealed and recorded, so that humanity can remember the price of peace and cherish it.
答：731部队犯下的大规模、系统性罪行是反人类，反种族的。那些罪行必须被揭露和记录下来，这样人类才能牢记和平的代价，珍惜和平。
Some countries in Europe are still suffering from war, which is proof that humanity needs constant reminders of how important peace is.
欧洲的一些国家依然饱受战争之苦，这证明需有人不断提醒人类，和平多么重要。
Q. What is the architecture of the new museum saying?
问：新陈列馆的建筑风格从何而来？
A. The vision for the museum comes from the metaphor of a black box of a plane crash. The point is to say that the site of Unit 731 is the black box that recorded one of the darkest periods of human history.
答：对陈列馆的设想来自飞机失事后的黑匣子这个比喻。目的是想说731部队的原址就是一个黑匣子，记录了人类历史上最黑暗的一个时期。
In showing the contents of the black box, we find out what happened and remember the lessons learned from the disaster. The area round the museum was made to look as if the ground split open to reveal the black box.
在展示这个黑匣子里的内容时，我们会发现曾经发生过什么，并牢记从这场灾难中汲取的教训。我们让陈列馆四周的地面看着就像裂开了一样，从而显露出这个黑箱子。
Q. Who is the architect?
问：设计师是谁？
A. A team led by Dr. He Jingtang of South China University of Technology. We talked to many teams in China and Dr. He’s had the best concept.
答：是华南理工大学何镜堂教授领带领的一个团队。我们和中国很多团队都谈过，何教授的理念是最好的。
They did the China pavilion of the Shanghai Expo, which shows that they can handle a large project, and the Nanjing Massacre Memorial Hall, which shows they can handle the theme of World War II.
他们设计过上海世博会的中国馆和南京大屠杀纪念馆。中国馆证明他们能负责大项目，大屠杀纪念馆则证明他们能处理二战这个主题。
Q. When did construction begin?
问：什么时候开始施工的？
A. The original building had a small area for displaying artifacts, but the space was too small. Also for the protection of the building, we can’t let in an unlimited number of visitors. We started drawing up blueprints in February 2014. Construction started in November 2014 and finished in August this year.
答：原来的楼里有一小块地方被用做陈列区，但地方太小了。而且为了保护建筑，我们不能无限制地放游客进来。2014年2月，我们开始画图纸。施工是2014年11月开始的，今年8月完工。
Q. What are the visitor numbers?
问：参观人数怎么样？
A. From the opening up to Sept. 18, on average 7,000 to 10,000 people visited the museum daily.
答：从对外开放到9月18日，陈列馆每天平均接待7000到10000名游客。
Before, about 400,000 people came each year to visit the site. Now we have had 270,000 visitors in a little over a month.
以前，每年有大约40万人来参观。现在，在一个月多一点的时间里，我们就迎来了27万观众。
Q. The end of the exhibition states clearly that the United States did not try the perpetrators of Unit 731 out of its own national interest. Are you concerned this could affect relations between China and the United States?
问：展览的最后明确表示美国出于自己的国家利益而没审判731部队的罪犯。你担心这可能会影响中美关系吗？
A. Our motto is: Record history and ignore politics. We are historians, not politicians. Our job is to research and present history to the best of our knowledge and as objectively as we can. As long as historical truth is restored, our job is done. We don’t twist history out of political considerations.
答：我们的格言是：记录历史，忽略政治。我们是历史学家，不是政客。我们的工作是根据了解到的情况，尽可能客观地研究和呈现历史。只要历史真相得到恢复，我们的工作就完成了。我们不会出于政治考虑而歪曲历史。
Q. What can be done to help set right the burden of the Unit 731 history in relations between China and Japan?
问：应该如何帮助拨正731部队这段历史对中日关系的影响？
A. We have found other individuals and organizations, including Japanese historians and scholars, who are also interested in revealing and researching this time in history.
答：我们找到了其他一些个人和组织，包括日本的历史学家和学者，他们也对公开和研究这个历史时期感兴趣。
We’d like to bring together all who are committed to this. We have extensive cooperation with Japanese historians and artists and dozens of Japanese groups. We just had a 300-member group from Japan visit the museum.
我们想把所有致力于这件事的人聚集在一起。我们和日本的历史学家、艺术家和几十个团体有广泛的合作。我们刚接待了一个300人的团，他们是从日本来参观陈列馆的。