STEVENSON, Ala. — James Davis figures that his first mistake was asking permission. If a man promises his wife he will bury her in the front yard, then he should just do so.
亚拉巴马州史蒂文森——詹姆斯·戴维斯(James Davis)认为，他的第一个错误是申请许可。如果一个男人答应他的妻子要让她长眠于门前的院子里，就应该直接这么办。
But ever since Mr. Davis granted his dying wife’s wish by laying her to rest just off his front porch, he and the City of Stevenson have been at odds. From City Hall to the courts, the government of this little railroad town in southern Appalachia has tried to convince Mr. Davis that a person who lives in a town cannot just set up a cemetery anywhere he likes. On Oct. 11, the Alabama Supreme Court affirmed a judge’s decision saying as much.
然而，自从戴维斯向奄奄一息的妻子承诺，会按照她的意愿将其埋葬在家门口，他和史蒂文森当局就开始冲突不断。从市政府到法院，这座阿巴拉契亚山脉南部铁路小城的政府一直在试图说服戴维斯，城镇居民不能在自己看上的随便什么地方建墓地。一名法官的判决就是这么说的。今年10月11日，亚拉巴马州最高法院也维持了这名法官的判决。
But Mr. Davis, 74, is not inclined to back down.
可是，74岁的戴维斯拒绝让步。
“They’re waiting on me to die,” he said early last week, standing on the porch of the log house he built and looking out over his lawn, which along with the grave features an outhouse and a large sign demanding that his wife be allowed to rest in peace. “I am not digging her up.”
“他们在等我死，”他本周早些时候称。他站在亲手修建的木屋的门廊里，望向自家草坪。那里除了妻子的墓，还有一间户外小屋和一个硕大的标语牌，上面要求允许他的妻子安息。“我绝不会把她挖出来。”
Alabama, like most states, has no state law against burying someone on private property, and family graves are not all that rare in the country. Sherry Bradley, the deputy director of environmental services for the State Department of Public Health, said people asked her about private burial several times a week.
与大多数州一样，亚拉巴马州法律中没有规定不允许在私人地产上埋人，而且在乡村地区，家族墓地也不是那么罕见。亚拉巴马州公共卫生部负责环境服务的副主管谢里·布拉德利(Sherry Bradley)表示，她每周都会被问到几次关于私人安葬的问题。
“You wouldn’t believe the calls I get,” she said, mentioning one woman who wanted to stage a “Viking burial” by putting her deceased husband in a boat and setting it on fire. (“The answer to that one was no,” she said.)
“我接的那些电话简直令人难以置信，”她谈到的是一名女性希望办场“维京式葬礼”，把离世的丈夫安放到船上，然后点火。（“对此的回答是‘不行，’”她说。）
While private burials are permitted in rural areas, cities and towns often have ordinances governing the burials, to which the state defers.
尽管农村地区允许私人安葬，但城镇地区通常有获得州授权的丧葬条例。
Stevenson does not have such an ordinance, though Joshua Slocum, the director of the Funeral Consumers Alliance, a nonprofit watchdog group based in Vermont, said this was not atypical. Many cities lack burial ordinances because the issue of private burial hardly ever comes up, he said.
史蒂文森不存在此类条例，不过，总部位于佛蒙特的非营利监督机构葬礼消费者联盟(Funeral Consumers Alliance)的主管乔舒亚·斯洛克姆(Joshua Slocum)称，这种情况并不少见。按照他的说法，许多城镇缺乏丧葬条例的原因是私人安葬的问题几乎从未出现过。
“It’s usually the case that people don’t ask to be buried in city limits,” Mr. Slocum said.
“一般的情况是，人们不会要求埋在城市范围里，”斯洛克姆说。
Mr. Davis and his wife, Patsy, grew up in Dayton, Tenn., having first met when she was 7 and he was 11. She was a teenager when he asked her to accompany him to a strawberry festival. “We went on that one date, and it was me and her the rest of the time,” he said. They were married for 48 years and had five children.
戴维斯和妻子帕齐(Patsy)在田纳西州代顿长大，首次相遇时分别是11岁和7岁。帕齐长到十几岁的时候，戴维斯邀请她一起去参加草莓节。“他们共赴了那次约会，然后就一起过了一辈子，”他说。他们结婚48载，养育了五个孩子。
In her later years, Mrs. Davis came down with an array of painful ailments, including crippling arthritis, and Mr. Davis retired from his job as an electrical worker to take care of her. Eventually, the doctors said that extending her life would only make it more painful. She died in April 2009, and ever since he has slept in his easy chair, finding the bedroom depressing.
帕齐的晚年伴随着各种病痛，关节炎导致她行走不便，于是戴维斯从电工岗位上退了休来照顾她。到了最后，医生认为延长她的生命只会更痛苦。她于2009年4月去世，此后戴维斯一直睡在安乐椅上，因为卧室会让他伤心。
Shortly before her death, Mr. Davis said, she expressed her wish to be buried in the yard of the house where they had spent three decades together. So he went to work, getting approval from the county’s Health Department and pressing the City Council for a permit.
戴维斯说，妻子去世前不久，表达了想被葬在自家院子里的愿望。他们在这里一起生活了30年。于是他开始行动，申请县卫生部门的许可，并敦促市议会发放许可。
The Council told Mr. Davis that he had not completed the necessary paperwork, and after two meetings, it voted to deny his request, speaking about its potential impact on property values and about who would take care of it in perpetuity. (The tombstone has Mr. Davis’s name beside his wife’s, and he planned to end up in the yard as well.) Parker Edmiston, the city attorney, said he was concerned about setting a precedent.
市议会对戴维斯说，他还没有备齐所需的文件。在举行了两次会议之后，市议会投票否决了他的请求。他们提出，这么做会对房产价值造成潜在影响，还提到了谁能永久照看墓地的问题。（墓碑上有戴维斯的名字，刻在妻子名字的旁边，他也打算在这个院子里长眠。）市检察官帕克·埃德米斯顿(Parker Edmiston)说，他担心这会创造一个先例。
“If you allow it for Mr. Davis, you allow it for Ms. Adams, Mr. Jones and everyone else,” Mr. Edmiston said, adding that this was the most protracted litigation in the city since a case a few years ago involving something about pigs.
埃德米斯顿说，“如果你给戴维斯开了绿灯，你就等于允许亚当斯(Adams)女士、琼斯(Jones)先生和其他所有人这么干。”他还说，这是自几年前发生一桩和猪有关的官司以来，市里出现的最旷日持久的官司。
According to court filings, Mr. Davis declared to the City Council members that he would sue and take his case to the State Supreme Court if necessary. But instead, he just decided to ignore them.
根据法院文件，戴维斯向市议会的议员宣布，如果必要，他将提起诉讼，哪怕告到州最高法院也在所不惜。不过结果他却决定干脆不去理会这些人。
“I just got a backhoe and went ahead,” Mr. Davis said, later arguing that the lack of a specific burial ordinance meant that they had no right to stop him. He installed a vault, the funeral home put his wife in the coffin, and on a Saturday morning 10 days after the City Council vote, Mrs. Davis was laid to rest before a gathering of family members.
“我弄来一台反铲挖土机，就开始行动了，”戴维斯说。他后来辩解，缺乏具体的丧葬条例意味着，议员们没有权利阻止他。他挖了一个墓穴，殡仪馆的人把他的妻子放入棺椁。就在市议会投票10天之后的一个周六上午，戴维斯夫人在一众亲属面前入土为安了。
The city sued him a month later.
一个月之后，市里对戴维斯提起了起诉。
On Friday, Mr. Davis was back in court, and while he warned of “an incident” if the city came onto his property, he suggested a compromise: he would dig up the coffin, cremate his wife’s remains and put the urn with her ashes back in the grave. In her dying days, Mrs. Davis had said she was afraid of cremation, Mr. Davis said. But a lot of time has passed since then. “If she saw herself as she is now, I know she would not mind,” he said.
上周五，戴维斯回到了法院。尽管他警告称，如果市政当局找上门来，可能会发生不必要的“事件”，他还是提出了妥协方案：他会把棺椁挖出来，火化妻子的骨骸，再把她的骨灰盒放回墓地中。戴维斯说，妻子在生命垂危的日子里曾说过，害怕被火化。不过这已经是许久以前的事了。他说，“如果她见到自己现在的模样，我知道，她是不会介意的。”
Mr. Edmiston acknowledged that there was no law against tombstones or the placement of ashes, but he insisted that the coffin and the vault be removed. So if Mr. Davis fully complies with the city’s order, the yard will end up looking exactly as it does now, only with an urn rather than a coffin underneath.
埃德米斯顿承认，没有法律规定不允许树立墓碑或安置骨灰，不过他坚持要求移除棺椁、填上墓穴。所以，如果戴维斯完全遵从市里的命令，院子将会看起来与现在完全一样，只不过地底下埋的是骨灰盒，而不是棺椁。
This may raise the question as to what the whole fight was about. But Mr. Davis has no doubts.
这大概会让人发问，整场争论的意义在哪里？不过，戴维斯对此坚信不疑。
“There was never any couple in love like us,” he said. “We was meant to be together.”
他说，“从没有像我们这样相爱的夫妻。命中注定我们要在一起。”