WASHINGTON — One by one, Senator John McCain’s fellow prisoners from the Vietnam War have been dying, and at 78, he said, he is aware more than ever that his time will come, too. “Every single day,” he mused in an interview, “is a day less that I am going to be able to serve in the Senate.”
华盛顿——越战期间与联邦参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)一同被关押的战俘相继离世，让现年78岁的他越发意识到，自己也会有那么一天。“每过一天，”他接受采访时若有所思地说道，“我能在参议院效力的时间就少了一天。”
But no one should think that this reminder of his own mortality has tamed Mr. McCain, the bellicose Arizona Republican. If he had his way, the United States would have ground troops in Syria, more troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and a steady supply of arms going to Ukraine.
不过，没人会认为，这种步入生命尾声的提醒会使这名好斗的亚利桑那州共和党人变得温顺起来。如果按照他的想法行事，美国应该已经向叙利亚派遣地面部队、向伊拉克和阿富汗增兵，并且源源不断地为乌克兰提供武器。
Now, six years after losing the presidential election to Barack Obama, Mr. McCain finally has the only job in Washington, other than being president, that he ever wanted: chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, overseer of the American military and the nation’s defense policy. The question is whether he will use his new clout (and ability to subpoena) to make war or some accommodation with the White House.
在总统竞选中输给了贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)六年之后，麦凯恩如今终于在华盛顿获得了除总统之外他唯一梦寐以求的职位——参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)主席，成了监督美国军队及国防政策的负责人。问题是，他究竟是会利用自己的新影响力（以及召集听证会的权力）来与白宫开战，还是进行和解？
“McCain now has the power either to destroy the president’s national security policy or shape it constructively,” said Leslie H. Gelb, president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations. “This is the first step to see whether he is going to use his new power to clobber Obama as he has for the past six years, or whether he will use it to try to shape and improve Obama’s policy.”
“麦凯恩现在拥有推翻或建设性塑造奥巴马国家安全政策的权力，”对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)名誉主席莱斯利·H·盖尔布(Leslie H. Gelb)说。“要想看出他到底是会利用新权力来像过去六年一样痛击奥巴马，还是会设法调整并改进奥巴马的政策，这是第一步。”
For now, despite hints that he is trying to reinvent himself from cantankerous Obama critic to elder statesman, Mr. McCain still seems to be in clobber mode. In a recent interview, he said that Mr. Obama’s decision not to send more American troops to Iraq to thwart the Islamic State had put America at risk. “That attack you saw in Paris? You’ll see an attack in the United States,” Mr. McCain said. He repeated his frequent assessment that the president’s foreign policy is “a disaster” and “delusional.” He said “of course” he would have made a better commander in chief.
目前，尽管有一些迹象显示，他正在尝试摆脱与奥巴马针锋相对的形象，转而以政界元老的面貌示人，但麦凯恩似乎仍旧处于攻击模式。近期接受采访时，他表示，奥巴马决定不向伊拉克派遣更多美国部队去挫败伊斯兰国(Islamic State)，这将美国置于危险之中。“看到巴黎的袭击事件了吗？美国也会遭到袭击，”麦凯恩说。他重复之前的论调，称奥巴马的外交政策“形同灾难”、“不切实际”。他还表示，自己“当然”会是一位表现更好的三军统帅。
And he is still seething about his last visit to the Oval Office, in September 2013, when he and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, backed Mr. Obama’s plan to intervene militarily in Syria — only to watch the president change his mind.
他仍对上次到访椭圆形办公室时的情形感到气愤。2013年9月，他和来自南卡罗来纳州的参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)前往那里支持奥巴马对叙利亚进行军事干预的计划，结果却眼睁睁看着总统改变主意。
“Didn’t even get the courtesy of a phone call,” Mr. McCain said. “When somebody looks you in the eye in the Oval Office and says they’re going to do something, don’t you take their word for it? I did. I took his word for it. And obviously I shouldn’t have.”
“连打个电话的客套都没有，”麦凯恩说。“当有人在椭圆形办公室看着你的眼睛说，他们将会做一些事情，你会不当真吗？我当真了。我相信了他的话。很明显，我不应信以为真。”
In short, he said of Mr. Obama’s foreign policy: “I’ve been right. He’s been wrong.”
简而言之，他对奥巴马的外交政策的总结是：“我一直是对的。他一直是错的。”
For his debut as chairman, Mr. McCain is planning a series of hearings on national security strategy with a bipartisan cast of luminaries from administrations long past, among them former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, 91, and two former national security advisers: Brent Scowcroft, 89, and Zbigniew Brzezinski, 86.
担任参议院军事委员会主席伊始，麦凯恩计划就国家安全策略召开一系列听证会，邀请历届政府中的两党杰出人物出席，其中包括91岁的前国务卿亨利·A·基辛格(Henry A. Kissinger)，以及两名前国家安全顾问——89岁的布伦特·斯考克罗夫特(Brent Scowcroft)和86岁的兹比格涅夫·布热津斯基(Zbigniew Brzezinski)。
Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, said the president sees Mr. McCain as possessing “a very important viewpoint to consult with,” even if Mr. Obama rejects Mr. McCain’s interventionist stance. Mr. McDonough said Mr. McCain had influenced the Obama administration’s foreign policy, although when he was asked how, he paused.
白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·麦克多诺(Denis McDonough)表示，奥巴马认为麦凯恩代表了“值得咨询的非常重要的观点”，尽管他并不认同麦凯恩的干涉主义立场。麦克多诺称，麦凯恩影响了奥巴马政府的外交政策，但被问及究竟是何影响时，他停顿了一下。
“The reason I’m pausing,” he finally said, “is I’m trying to give you a concrete example.”
“我之所以停顿，”他最终说道，“是因为想给你一个具体的例子。”
Senior Senate Democrats say they respect Mr. McCain for his expertise and bipartisan deal-making on issues like immigration, and they hold out the possibility that Mr. McCain will do more on the Armed Services Committee than browbeat Mr. Obama’s nominees during confirmation hearings, as he has in the past. There are some signs of change: Mr. McCain is an enthusiastic supporter of Mr. Obama’s nominee for defense secretary, Ashton B. Carter, who is to appear before the committee in February.
一些资深的民主党参议员表示，他们尊重麦凯恩的专业意见，以及他在推动两党就移民等问题开展合作方面的努力。他们坚信，麦凯恩有望在军事委员会有更大的作为，而不仅仅是像过去那样，威吓奥巴马提名的官员。眼下存在一些改变的迹象：麦凯恩大力支持被奥巴马提名为国防部长的阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)。他将于2月出席该委员会的提名确认听证会。
“I sense he has found the place where his particular talents are most important and most useful to the country,” said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the senior Democrat on the committee. “He’s no longer on the quest to be president, he’s not being distracted by a steppingstone to the next thing, and he feels he’s taking over at a crucial time to shape the policy of the United States.”
“我觉得他已经找对了地方，在这个职位上，他的特殊天分对国家最重要、最有用，”来自罗得岛州的军事委员会资深民主党参议员杰克·瑞德(Jack Reed)说。“他不再追求成为总统，也不会被什么下一步的跳板分心。他感觉自己在关键时刻接过了塑造美国政策的担子。”
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said Mr. McCain had an important role. “People know his personality, and they know how passionately he feels, and they know he sometimes uses hyperbole,” Mr. Schumer said. “But it’s all very sincere and very heartfelt and based on a whole lot of experience. And I think in a world of terrorism, even when people don’t agree with him, they’re sort of glad he’s there.”
来自纽约州的民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)认为，麦凯恩会发挥重要作用。“人们了解他的个性，知道他充满了激情，还知道他有时会夸大其词，”舒默说。“不过，这一切都非常诚恳、发自肺腑，而且还有大量的经验做基础。我认为，在恐怖主义横行的世界里，即使有人不同意他的看法，也会在某种程度上对他的存在感到高兴。”
For Mr. McCain, a former Navy pilot and the son and grandson of admirals, running Armed Services is the “fulfillment of a lifelong political aspiration,” said Mark Salter, a longtime adviser to Mr. McCain and co-author of several of the senator’s books.
麦凯恩曾担任海军飞行员，父亲和祖父都是海军将领。对他而言，执掌军事委员会可谓“实现了毕生的政治抱负”，麦凯恩的长期顾问马克·索尔特(Mark Salter)说。两人曾合著过几本书。
Mr. McCain, in a sense, grew up on the Armed Services Committee. In 1977, four years after his release as a prisoner of war in Hanoi, the Navy assigned Captain McCain to be its Senate liaison. He traveled around the world with committee members like Gary Hart, a Democrat who later ran for president, and William S. Cohen, a Republican who became defense secretary under President Bill Clinton. John G. Tower, the committee chairman and a hawkish Texas Republican, became like a second father to Mr. McCain.
从某种意义上看，麦凯恩是在军事委员会成长起来的。1977年，作为战俘从河内获释四年之后，麦凯恩上校被美国海军指派为参议院联络人。他与民主党人加里·哈特(Gary Hart)和共和党人威廉·S·科恩(William S. Cohen)等军事委员会成员一起走遍了世界各地——前者后来竞选过总统，后者曾在比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)政府担任国防部长。对于麦凯恩而言，委员会主席、来自德克萨斯州的鹰派共和党人约翰·G·托尔(John G. Tower)逐渐成为了一个父亲般的人物。
“It was Tower who inspired him to run for office and get into politics and get out of the military,” said Rick Davis, Mr. McCain’s longtime strategist. “So to have the job that Tower had — that’s a big deal to him. That’s full circle.”
“是托尔启发了他，让他竞选公职，进入政界，走出军队，”麦凯恩的长期战略师里克·戴维斯(Rick Davis)说。“所以，获得托尔曾经担任的职位——对他而言意义重大。这样就圆满了。”
Mr. Tower, who died in 1991, still inspires Mr. McCain today. Of his plan to hold hearings to explore America’s place in the world, Mr. McCain said, “That’s a page out of Tower’s book.”
于1991年过世的托尔如今仍然激励着麦凯恩。在提到计划如何举行听证会来探讨美国在世界上的位置时，麦凯恩说，“这是从托尔那里学来的。”
As chairman, Mr. McCain has said, he will push to end the across-the-board budget cuts for the Pentagon known as sequestration, and he wants changes made to cut waste in the military’s procurement system, which has the defense industry on edge. And by using his new platform to draw attention to global threats, he hopes to create a favorable climate for a Republican to win the White House in 2016.
麦凯恩表示，作为主席，他将推动终结五角大楼预算的全面削减，即叫停“自动减赤”。他还希望做出改变，减少军队采购体系中的浪费，让国防行业颇为紧张。他希望通过自己的新平台，引起人们对全球性威胁的关注，从而为共和党在2016年赢得白宫创造一个有利的氛围。
“A year ago, before the beheadings, national security was a very low priority for the American people,” Mr. McCain said. “Now it’s a very high priority, and that was what Reagan did when he defeated Jimmy Carter. National security, peace through strength, became a very important phrase.”
“一年前，在斩首事件还没发生的时候，美国民众对国家安全的关注度很低，”麦凯恩说。“现在，这方面的关注度很高，而里根(Reagan)在击败吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)时就是这样做的。国家安全，通过实力实现的和平，成了非常重要的一步。”
Having tangled with Republican budget hawks (he once called Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky “wacko birds”), Mr. McCain is buoyed by the recent election of several military veterans: Tom Cotton of Arkansas, Dan Sullivan of Alaska and Joni Ernst of Iowa. He has maneuvered to put them all on his committee, in hopes of bolstering what he calls “the internationalist wing.”
在与共和党预算鹰派（他曾把德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹[Ted Cruz]与肯塔基州参议员兰德·保罗[Rand Paul]称为“疯鸟”）缠斗之后，几名退伍军人最近的当选让麦凯恩颇受鼓舞，其中包括阿肯色州的汤姆·科顿(Tom Cotton)、阿拉斯加州的丹·沙利文(Dan Sullivan)和艾奥瓦州的约尼·厄恩斯特(Joni Ernst)。通过运作，麦凯恩把他们都安插到了军事委员会，希望能强化他口中的“国际主义阵营”。
If Mr. McCain runs for re-election in 2016, as he says he is likely to do, he expects a Tea Party challenge. If he wins a sixth term, Mr. McCain would be 86 at the end of it, so friends say that race will probably be his last.
假如麦凯恩2016年竞选连任——他说自己很可能会这样做——他大概会面临一名茶党候选人的挑战。倘若他能第六次当选参议员，那么在任期结束时，他就86岁了。所以朋友们说，那次竞选很可能将是他的最后一次。
“I think John sees the next six years, really the next eight years, as the chance to close it out strong,” said Jack Keane, a retired Army general and close friend to Mr. McCain. Mr. Graham, who is Mr. McCain’s closest friend in the Senate, said that Mr. McCain is “looking at his legacy” and is hopeful about working with Democrats to reform business practices at the Pentagon.
“我想，约翰把未来六年，其实是未来八年，看成是一个以强有力的方式结束政治生涯的机会，”退役陆军将领、麦凯恩的好友杰克·基恩(Jack Keane)说。麦凯恩在参议院最亲密的盟友格雷厄姆则称，他“正在审视自己的政治遗产”，而且对与民主党合作来改革国防部的行为方式充满希望。
“He wants to be the guy who did the hard things,” Mr. Graham said.
“他想成为那个完成了困难任务的人，”格雷厄姆说。