French voters will go to the polls on Sunday for the first round of presidential elections. In the wake of electoral upheavals around the world, including the victory of Donald J. Trump and Britain’s decision to leave the European Union, the vote is one of several in Europe being closely watched worldwide.
周日，法国选民将前往投票站，参加总统选举第一轮投票。在世界各地发生包括唐纳德·J·特朗普胜选、英国公投脱欧在内的种种选举动荡之后，这是欧洲的若干场受到世人密切关注的选举之一。
What is France deciding?
法国人将就什么做出决定？
The president wields broad powers — although the prime minister, as the head of government, also plays an important role in the constitutional system, as does Parliament. Presidents are elected for a five-year term, for a maximum of two consecutive terms. The incumbent, François Hollande, a Socialist, has struggled to reduce unemployment and has had to deal with a string of deadly terrorist attacks.
总统拥有广泛的权力——尽管作为政府负责人的总理像议会一样，也在宪政体制中发挥着重要作用。总统当选后任期为五年，最多只能连任一届。信奉社会主义的现任总统弗朗索瓦·奧朗德(François Hollande)，在降低失业率方面一直面临着重重困难，还不得不应对一连串致命的恐怖袭击。
The demands are high for the next president to keep the country safe, jump-start its economy and manage the sometimes competing goals of improving the labor market and the maintaining a social safety net. France’s role in the European Union is also in question.
人们都盼着下一任总统能够保障这个国家的安全，快速重振经济，并管控好有时会相互冲突的两个目标——改善劳动力市场环境和维护社会保障网。法国在欧盟中的角色也进入了讨论范围。
Elections for the National Assembly, France’s lower and more powerful house of Parliament, are in June, and whoever wins the presidency will want to secure a favorable legislative majority.
权力更大的议会下议院，也就是国民议会(National Assembly)的选举将于6月举行，不论谁当选总统，都会希望确保其阵营在立法机构中占据对其有利的多数席位。
When and how will voting take place?
投票将于何时、以何种方式举行？
As with many elections in France, this one has two rounds. The first round, on Sunday, includes 11 candidates. If no one wins a majority, the top two vote-getters will proceed to a runoff on May 7. (No one has won the first round outright since direct popular voting for the presidency began in the 1960s.)
像法国的很多选举一样，总统选举投票分两轮进行。第一轮的时间定在周日，共有11名候选人。如果没有人赢得多数选票，得票最多的前两名候选人将在5月7日对决。（法国总统从1960年代开始经由直接普选产生以来，还没有人能在第一轮中直接胜出。）
The elections are across France and in its overseas territories; there are 45.7 million registered voters. The vast majority of voting is by paper ballot, counted by hand: There is no electronic voting and very few voting machines. Campaign spending is limited, and equal media exposure is enforced.
选举在法国本土及其海外领地举行；登记在册的选民共有4570万。绝大多数选民会填写纸质选票，计票工作由人工完成：不实行电子投票，投票机也很少。竞选费用是受到限制的，还存在关于同等媒体曝光机会的强制性规定。
Who is running?
参选者都有谁？
Only a few of the candidates are considered serious contenders:
只有少数几个候选人被视作强劲的竞争者：
■ François Fillon, a conservative from the center-right Republican party.
■ 弗朗索瓦·菲永(François Fillon)，系保守派人士，来自中间偏右的共和党(Republican party)。
■ Benoît Hamon, of the mainstream left-wing Socialist Party, who has dropped to single digits in the polls.
■ 本努瓦·哈蒙(Benoît Hamon)，来自主流左翼政党社会党(Socialist Party)，民调支持率已跌至个位数。
■ Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front.
■ 马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)，极右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)的领导者。
■ Emmanuel Macron, an independent centrist.
■ 埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)，独立的中间派人士。
■ Jean-Luc Mélenchon, a hard-left candidate who created the France Unbowed movement.
■ 让-吕克·梅朗雄(Jean-Luc Mélenchon)，极左翼候选人，“不屈法国”(France Unbowed)运动的创办者。
Of the candidates, Ms. Le Pen has arguably drawn the most attention from journalists, because of her hard-line stance on immigration, her grim warning that a declining France is losing its identity and her party’s record with Jews and Muslims, among other communities.
在这些候选人当中，颇具争议性的勒庞因其对移民问题的强硬立场，关于衰落的法国正失去自我认同的严酷警告，及其所在政党对待犹太人、穆斯林等群体的过往记录，最受媒体记者关注。
Personal integrity and political corruption have become major issues: Mr. Fillon is enmeshed in an embezzlement scandal, and Ms. Le Pen has faced questions about her use of her position as a member of the European Parliament. These controversies have given lesser-known candidates the opportunity to jab and mock their counterparts during live debates.
个人诚信以及政治腐败已经成了大问题：菲永深陷贪污丑闻，勒庞则面临着与她担任欧洲议会(European Parliament)议员期间对这一身份的运用有关的质疑。这些争议给了不太知名的候选人在现场辩论中刺激和嘲弄对手的机会。
Mr. Macron and Ms. Le Pen are slightly ahead, but the four front-runners are neck-and-neck in the latest polls, creating uncertainty about who will make it to the runoff. Up to a third of possible voters, according to the latest polls, are still undecided.
马克龙和勒庞的支持率稍微高一点，但在最近的民调中，排在前四位的候选人不相伯仲，因此难以预计谁能进入最终的对决。最近的民调显示，可能参加投票的选民中，有多达三分之一尚未决定投给谁。
Why does France matter?
法国为什么很重要？
A nation of 67 million, France is the world’s sixth-largest economy, one of five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and a nuclear power. It is one of the oldest allies of the United States, having helped secure American independence from Britain. It is the world’s most visited country. Since the French Revolution, the nation has often been seen as a beacon of democratic ideals.
作为一个拥有6700万人口的国家，法国是世界第六大经济体，联合国安理会五个常任理事国之一，以及一个核大国。它是美国最早的盟友中的一个，曾帮助美国脱离英国走向独立。它是世界上游客最多的国家。自从法国大革命以来，它常常被视为民主理念的灯塔。
French foreign policy could change significantly if one of the candidates who favor friendlier ties with Russia or weakening the European Union is elected.
如果主张与俄罗斯建立更友好关系或削弱欧盟的候选人当选，法国的外交政策可能会发生重大变化。
How have international events influenced the election?
国际事件如何影响着选举？
■ Britain's decision to leave the European Union has spurred talk of a similar move in France, sometimes called a “Frexit.” Two of the main candidates, Mr. Mélenchon and Ms. Le Pen, want, for very different reasons, to renegotiate France’s place in the bloc. Should negotiations fail, both have said that they would organize referendums on a departure from the bloc or from the euro currency zone.
■ 英国脱离欧盟的决定，激起了关于法国采取类似行动——有时被称为“法国脱欧”(Frexit)——的讨论。两名主要候选人，梅朗雄和勒庞出于截然不同的原因，想要重新就法国在欧盟中的位置展开磋商。两人都说过，如果磋商失败，他们会就脱离欧盟或欧元区事宜组织公投。
■ The election of President Trump gave a boost to the candidacy of Ms. Le Pen: It suggested that such an upset was possible in France, and the National Front hopes to ride a similar wave of discontent about immigration and globalization. But some of Mr. Trump’s actions, like the one to launch airstrikes in Syria, have led Ms. Le Pen to distance herself from him.
■ 特朗普总统的当选，让勒庞作为候选人的地位有所提升：其当选意味着法国也有可能出现这种逆袭，国民阵线希望可以利用类似的对于移民问题和全球化的不满浪潮。但特朗普的一些行为，比如下令在叙利亚开展空袭，让勒庞忙于和他划清界线。
■ Questions have also been raised about whether Russia is trying to influence the results.
■ 关于俄罗斯是否会设法影响选举结果的问题也被提了出来。
When will we know the results?
我们什么时候能知道结果？
The French news media cannot publish results before the last polling stations close at 8 p.m. Because the four front-runners are polling so closely, the winners might not become clear until later. Official results will be available on the website of the French Interior Ministry.
法国媒体不能在最后一批投票站于晚上8点关闭前揭晓结果。因为民调支持率最高的四位候选人不相伯仲，可能要再晚一些才能清楚地知道谁是胜利者。可以在法国内政部的网站上查阅官方统计结果。
What happens next?
接下来呢？
A televised debate between the two finalists is scheduled for May 3, four days before the runoff on May 7. The winner of the runoff will take office by May 14.
进入下一轮的两名候选人将于5月3日进行电视辩论，并于四天后的5月7日进行终极对决。胜出者将于5月14日就职。