KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Sha’Quille Kornegay, 2 years old, was buried in a pink coffin, her favorite doll by her side and a tiara strategically placed to hide the self-inflicted gunshot wound to her forehead. 
密苏里州堪萨斯城——两岁大的沙奎尔·科纳盖(Sha'Quille Kornegay)被收殓在一口粉红色的棺椁里，身边摆着她最喜欢的娃娃，头上还戴着一个头饰，精心遮住了额头上那处她自己造成的枪伤。
She had been napping in bed with her father, Courtenay Block, late last month when she discovered the 9 mm handgun he often kept under his pillow in his Kansas City, Missouri, home. It was equipped with a laser sight that lit up like the red lights on her cousins’ sneakers. Block told police he woke to see Sha’Quille by his bed, bleeding and crying, the gun at her feet. A bullet had pierced her skull. 
上月底，和父亲考特尼·布洛克(Courtenay Block)一起在密苏里州堪萨斯城家中的床上午睡时，她发现了他常常放在枕头底下的一把9毫米手枪。枪上安装的激光瞄准器是亮着的，很像她的表兄弟们的运动鞋上的红灯。布洛克告诉警方，他醒来时发现床边的沙奎尔血流不止，大声啼哭，那把枪就在她脚边。一颗子弹击穿了她的头骨。
In a country with more than 30,000 annual gun deaths, the smallest fingers on the trigger belong to children like Sha’Quille. 
在一个每年有逾3万人死于枪击的国度里，扣动扳机的最小的手指，属于沙奎尔这样的儿童。
During a single week in April, four toddlers — including Sha’Quille — shot and killed themselves, and a mother driving through Milwaukee was killed after her 2-year-old apparently picked up a gun that had slid out from under the driver’s seat. It was a brutal stretch, even by the standards of researchers who track these shootings. 
仅仅是4月份的一个星期里，就有包括沙奎尔在内的四名幼儿开枪打死自己，还有一位母亲驾车在密尔沃基市内行驶时被她两岁大的孩子打死。孩子显然是捡起了从驾驶员座椅底下滑出来的一把枪。即便以跟踪此类枪击事件的研究者的标准来看，这也是极为残酷的一个星期。
Last year, at least 30 people were killed in accidental shootings in which the shooter was 5 or younger, according to Everytown For Gun Safety, a gun control advocacy group that tracks these shootings, largely through news reports. 
来自控枪倡导组织“每座城镇都要维护枪支安全”(Everytown For Gun Safety)的数据显示，去年至少有30例意外枪击事件的开枪者年纪不超过五岁。该组织主要通过相关新闻报道来追踪此类事件。
With shootings by preschoolers happening at a pace of about two per week, some of the victims were the youngsters’ parents or siblings, but in many cases the children ended up taking their own lives. 
由学龄前儿童制造的枪击事件每周大约会发生两起，一些受害者是这些孩子的父母或手足，但在很多情况下，孩子们夺走的是自己的生命。
“You can’t call this a tragic accident,” said Jean Peters Baker, the prosecutor of Jackson County, Missouri, who is overseeing the criminal case in Sha’Quille’s death. Her office charged Block, 24, with second-degree murder and child endangerment. “These are really preventable, and we’re not willing to prevent them.” 
“你不能说这是一桩不幸的意外，”督办沙奎尔之死相关刑事案的密苏里州杰克逊县检察官珍·彼得斯·贝克(Jean Peters Baker)说。她所在的办公室对24岁的布洛克提起了二级谋杀罪和危害儿童安全罪指控。“此类事件真的可以避免，但我们却不愿阻止它们发生。”
Gun control advocates say these deaths illustrate lethal gaps in gun safety laws. Some states require locked storage of guns or trigger locks to be sold with handguns. Others leave safety decisions largely to gun owners. 
控枪倡导人士说，这些生命的逝去折射出枪支安全法规中的致命漏洞。一些州要求将手枪与带锁的枪支存放装置或者扳机锁捆绑销售。有的地方则基本把安全决策权留给枪支所有者。
Twenty-seven states have laws that hold adults responsible for letting children have unsupervised access to guns, according to the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, though experts say such measures have, at best, a small effect on reducing gun deaths. Massachusetts is the only state that requires gun owners to store their guns in a locked place, though it has not stopped youngsters there from accidentally killing themselves or other children. 
根据预防枪支暴力法律中心(Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence)的说法，共有27个州的法律规定，如果儿童在无人监管的情况下接触枪支，成人要承担责任。但专家称，此类措施最多只能对减少枪击死亡案件的发生有些许帮助。马萨诸塞州是唯一要求枪支所有者在上锁的地方存放枪支的州，但这没能阻止该州的儿童意外杀死自己或其他儿童。
Gun rights groups have long opposed these kinds of laws. They argue that trigger locks can fail, that mandatory storage can put a gun out of reach in an emergency, and that such measures infringe on Second Amendment rights.
持枪权团体一直反对这类法律。他们认为扳机锁可能失灵，强制性存放规定可能让人在紧急情况下无法拿到枪，而且这些措施侵犯了宪法第二修正案赋予公民的权利。
“It’s clearly a tragedy, but it’s not something that’s widespread,” said Larry Pratt, spokesman and former executive director of Gun Owners of America. “To base public policy on occasional mishaps would be a grave mistake.” 
“这种事显然是悲剧，但并非普遍现象，”美国枪支拥有者协会(Gun Owners of America)的发言人和前总干事拉里·普拉特(Larry Pratt)说。“以偶发事件为依据制定公共政策会犯下严重的错误。”
Holston Cole was 3, a boy crackling with energy who would wake before dawn, his pastor said. He loved singing “Jesus Loves Me” and bouncing inside the inflatable castle in his family’s front yard in Dallas, Georgia. 
霍尔斯顿·科尔(Holston Cole)是个3岁大的男孩，他的牧师说他是一个会在黎明前醒来的活泼孩子。他喜欢唱《耶稣爱我》(Jesus Loves Me)，喜欢在佐治亚州达拉斯市他家前院的充气城堡里蹦蹦跳跳。
About 7 a.m. on April 26, he found a .380-caliber semi-automatic pistol in his father’s backpack, according to investigators. The gun fired, and Holston’s panicked father, David, called 911. Even before a dispatcher could speak, David Cole wailed “No, no!” into the phone, according to a redacted recording. 
调查人员说，4月26日早上7点左右，他在父亲的背包里发现了一支.380口径半自动手枪。枪响后，父亲戴维·科尔(David Cole)惊慌失措，打了911。从一份录音节录中可以听到，调度员还没来得及开口，电话里就传来了科尔带着哭腔的“不，不！”
Cole pleaded for his 3-year-old son to hold on until the ambulance could arrive: “Stay with me, Holston,” he can be heard saying on a 911 tape, his voice full of desperation. “Can you hear me? Daddy loves you. Holston. Holston, please. Please.” 
科尔祈祷3岁儿子能撑到救护车赶来的那一刻：“别离开我，霍尔斯顿，”从911的录音带里可以听出，他的声音充满绝望。“能听到我说话吗？爸爸爱你，霍尔斯顿。霍尔斯顿，求你了。求你了。”
Holston was pronounced dead that morning. 
当天上午，霍尔斯顿被宣布死亡。
The local authorities have been weighing what can be a difficult decision for prosecutors and the police after these shootings: Whether to charge a stricken parent or family member with a crime. While laws vary among states, experts said decisions about prosecution hinge on the specific details and circumstances of each shooting. What may be criminal neglect in one child’s death may be legally seen as a tragic mistake in another. 
此类枪击事件发生后，是否要对突遭横祸的家长或家庭成员提起刑事指控，是各地方当局一直在考虑的问题，对检察官和警方来说，这是个艰难的决定。专家称，不同的州有不同的法律，是否起诉取决于每一起枪击事件的具体细节和情况。一名儿童的死亡在这个州可能牵涉刑事疏忽，根据那个州的法律却可能被归咎于不幸的错误。
Officials with the Paulding County Sheriff’s Office have suggested that they expect Cole to face, at most, a charge of reckless conduct. 
波尔丁县警长办公室(Paulding County Sheriff’s Office)的官员表示，他们预计科尔最多只会被控重大过失罪。
“Anything that we do, criminally speaking, is not going to hold a candle to the pain that this family feels,” said Sgt. Ashley Henson, a spokesman for the sheriff’s office. Henson said investigators had sensed early on that the shooting was accidental. “You want to be able to protect your family and take care of your family, but on the same hand, you’ve got to be safe with your weapons,” he said. 
“从刑事角度，我们做的一切，都不能缓解这个家庭所感受到的伤痛，”波尔丁县警长办公室发言人阿什利·汉森(Ashley Henson)表示。汉森说调查人员一开始就感觉到这起枪击事件是个意外。“你希望能保护、照顾你的家人，但与此同时，你得安全地存放武器，”他说。
In Indianapolis, Kanisha Shelton would stay protectively near her 2-year-old son, Kiyan, watchful of the stray dogs known to roam through the neighborhood. 
在印第安纳波利斯市，卡妮莎·谢尔顿(Kanisha Shelton)会警惕地守在两岁儿子基扬(Kiyan)身边，留意大家都知道的那几条在街区里晃荡的流浪犬。
But on the evening of April 20, Shelton stepped away from the boy, leaving him in the kitchen while she was upstairs. She had placed her purse out of his reach on the kitchen counter, but when her phone started ringing, the boy apparently pushed a chair close to the counter, climbed onto it and reached for the purse, according to an account from a cousin, John Pearson. There was a .380-caliber Bersa pistol inside it. 
但4月20日晚上，谢尔顿离开儿子去了楼上，儿子则被留在厨房里。据她的表兄约翰·皮尔逊(John Pearson)说，她把手包放在了厨房操作台上儿子够不着的地方，但当她的手机响起时，她儿子显然将一把椅子推到了操作台附近，然后爬上椅子去拿手包。包里有一把.380口径手枪。
Just after 9 p.m., Shelton heard a loud bang and rushed downstairs. There, in the kitchen, she found Kiyan lying on the floor, bleeding from a gunshot wound to the chest. He was rushed to a local children’s hospital, where he was pronounced dead. 
晚上9点刚过，谢尔顿听到一声巨响后冲到楼下。她发现基扬躺在厨房的地板上，血从胸部的枪伤处淌出来。基扬被迅速送往当地的一家儿童医院，在那里被宣布不治。
Shelton’s mother, who answered her daughter’s cellphone, said the family did not want to speak about the death. No criminal charges have been filed. 
帮谢尔顿接听电话的是谢尔顿的母亲，她说这家人不想谈论基扬之死。检方尚未提起刑事指控。
Police in Indianapolis said such scenes were becoming more common. “The mother was obviously very shaken up,” Capt. Richard Riddle said. Indeed, on Sunday night, another child, 10 years old, died in what police say appears to have been another accidental shooting. 
印第安纳波利斯市警方称，这类事件正变得越来越常见。“那位母亲显然深受打击，”警监理查德·里德尔(Richard Riddle)说。事实上，据警方所说，周日晚间还有另一个10岁的孩子似乎死于另外一起意外枪击事件。
When a Louisiana toddler who shot himself was buried, his coffin was no bigger than a piece of carry-on luggage, and it was so light that two pallbearers easily carried it through the packed St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church in Bermuda, Louisiana. 
在路易斯安那州一个开枪杀死自己的孩子被埋葬时，他的棺材还没有一个随身行李箱大，非常轻，两个护柩者抬着它穿过挤满人的百慕大圣保罗传教士浸信会教堂(St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church)，似乎不用花什么力气。
His full name was Za’veon Amari Williams, but to his family in Natchitoches, the 3-year-old was known as Baby Zee. On April 22, he found a pistol and shot himself in the head, according to Detective John Greely of the Natchitoches Police Department. When paramedics arrived, they found the mother cradling the boy and crying that he was not breathing, according to KSLA News 12. 
他的全名是扎翁·阿马里·威廉姆斯(Za’veon Amari Williams)，但在这个3岁男孩的家人口中，他是“小宝贝齐齐”。纳基托什市警察局(Natchitoches Police Department)的探员约翰·格里利(John Greely)说，4月22日，威廉姆斯发现了一把手枪，开枪打中了自己的头部。据KSLA News 12报道，医护人员赶到现场时，威廉姆斯的母亲抱着他哭喊着说，他没有呼吸了。
Police arrested a companion of the mother, Alverious Demars, 22, on charges of negligent homicide and obstruction of justice. Greely said that police believed the pistol belonged to Demars and that he hid it after the toddler shot himself. Police have not found the weapon. 
警方以过失杀人罪和妨碍司法罪逮捕了他母亲的同伴、22岁的阿尔佛里乌斯·德马尔(Alverious Demars)。格里利说警方认为手枪是德马尔的，威廉姆斯开枪击中自己后，德马尔把枪藏了起来。警方尚未找到那把枪。
The funerals for these children were filled with a similar anguish. 
这些孩子的葬礼上充满了同样的痛苦。
At the funeral for Baby Zee, the wails and screams grew so loud during a final moment of goodbye that ushers closed the church doors to give the family privacy. In Georgia, Holston’s father tearfully read a letter that reflected on how the family used to sing “Jesus Loves Me.” At the Kansas City funeral for Sha’Quille, family members crumpled as they looked into the coffin, shaking with tears or kissing her. 
在“小宝贝齐齐”的葬礼上，嚎哭和嘶喊声在最后的道别时刻响彻教堂，以至于迎宾员要把教堂大门关上，好给家人保留一些隐私。在佐治亚州，霍尔斯顿的父亲含泪读了一封信，信上提到了这家人以前经常唱《耶稣爱我》的情形。在堪萨斯城的沙奎尔的葬礼上，家人们在棺椁旁望着她的遗容陷入崩溃，有的哭得浑身发抖，有的上前亲吻她。
The day after Sha’Quille was buried, her maternal grandmother, Pamala Kornegay, reflected on the girl who was missing from the cluster of grandchildren who sat coloring on her living room floor. Kornegay said she was not angry with Sha’Quille’s father. 
沙奎尔下葬后的第二天，她的外祖母帕玛拉·科纳盖(Pamala Kornegay)回味着她的音容笑貌。科纳盖家客厅的地板上坐着她的一大群孙辈，正在涂颜色，其中唯独少了沙奎尔。利恩盖说她不恨沙奎尔的父亲。
“We’re just upset,” she said. “It was careless. It could have been prevented.” So senseless, she said, because Block had loved his daughter so dearly. 
“我们只是感到难过，”她说。“这是不小心造成的。这事本来可以避免。”太无谓了，她说，因为布洛克深爱着女儿。
“He would take a bullet for her,” she said.
“如果可以，他宁愿替她挨一颗子弹，”她说。