This may seem odd coming from a Jewish woman from Brooklyn, but I love celebrating Christmas Eve with a feast of the seven fishes.
这话出自一个布鲁克林的犹太裔女人也许显得奇怪，但我真的喜欢用七鲜宴庆祝圣诞夜。
It’s a Southern Italian (and now Italian-American) custom in which a grand meal of at least seven different kinds of seafood is served before midnight Mass. The fish part comes from the Catholic practice of abstaining from meat on Christmas Eve, while the number may refer to the seven sacraments. Or it could be the Seven Hills of Rome. No one is sure, but the tradition has stuck fast.
这是意大利南部的一个传统，如今已成了意大利裔美国人的传统。在午夜弥撒之前端上由至少七种不同海鲜组成的一顿大餐。食用海鲜源于天主教在圣诞夜禁食肉类的习惯，而这个数字可能指的是七项圣事，也可能是指罗马七山丘。没人能确定它的出处，但这种传统却稳固地延续了下来。
I picked it up from an old friend. At his house, the meal actually consisted of 12 fishes (for the apostles, they told me). It went on for hours, with one fabulous garlic-scented seafood dish following another, including braised eel in tomato sauce, scungilli salad, baked clams oreganata, fried calamari and seafood stew. Everyone ate until we collapsed on the couch with glasses of amaro or Sambuca to help digest it all.
我是从一个老朋友那里学来的。在他家，这顿大餐实际上由12种海鲜组成（他们告诉我，这来自12使徒）。吃完所有这一道道飘着美妙蒜香味的海鲜大餐要花几个小时，其中有用番茄酱煨的鳗鱼、海螺肉沙拉、牛至面包屑烤蛤蜊、炸乌贼和烩海鲜。每个人都一直吃到瘫坐在沙发里，手捧一杯阿马罗利口酒或萨姆布卡酒(Sambuca)来帮助消化。
In a holiday season dominated by roasted fowl and hearty braised meats, a meal reveling in the bounty of the sea is novel and refreshing. It’s at least as sumptuous as turkey and ham, and a welcome change in the dead of winter.
在烤家禽和炖肉当道的假日，这样一顿海鲜大餐，能让我们品尝海洋的慷慨馈赠，既别出心裁又清新美味。其丰盛程度绝不亚于火鸡和火腿，在沉闷的深冬，这种变化令人愉快。
Over the years, I’ve put my own spin on this piscine tradition — whittling my friend’s 12 dishes down to a more concentrated and manageable 7.
在过去一些年里，我对这种海鲜大餐的传统做出了自己的诠释，将朋友的12道菜减少到更精炼可行的七道。
The menu changes wildly from year to year, though there are some self-imposed strictures. For instance, Asian fish sauce, oyster mushrooms and Swedish gummy fish do not count toward the total. But anchovies in the salad dressing are completely valid.
每一年的菜单都有很大不同，不过我也给自己设下了一些限制。例如，亚洲鱼露、鲍鱼菇和瑞典鱼软糖都不能作数。但凤尾鱼加沙拉酱则完全符合要求。
When I’m feeling ambitious, I’ll cook seven courses, each showcasing one pristine sea creature in all its glory: scallops with Champagne sauce, for example, and lobster risotto cooked with a broth made from the lobster shells.
我兴致很高时会做七道菜，每道以一种新鲜海鲜为主，将它们各自的特色发挥到极致，如扇贝佐以香槟调味酱、以龙虾壳高汤烹制的龙虾意大利烩饭。
Then there are the more hectic and distracted years when I’ll just throw seven different fish into the soup pot at once, cioppino-style, and ladle it over olive-oil croutons.
而有些年则会比较慌乱忙不过来，那时我就会把七种不同的海鲜一起扔到汤锅里，就像意式炖海鲜汤那样，最后把它浇到用橄榄油炸过的面包丁上。
This menu falls somewhere in between the rustic and the spectacular. While I do pull off the seven courses, they are almost all fairly simple to make.
这样的菜单既不算粗陋也谈不上令人赞叹。我的确会尽量做七道菜的大餐，但它们差不多都很容易做。
The one exception is mussels in the garlicky herb butter known as snail butter, because that’s what it is traditionally served with in France. This dish involves steaming the mussels in Pernod, shelling them, arranging them on the half-shell topped with Pernod-imbued garlic butter and then broiling. But they are so incredibly savory that I don’t mind the work, most of which can be done in advance.
唯一的例外就是用蒜味香草黄油烹制的贻贝，这种黄油被称为蜗牛黄油，因为在法国，这种黄油通常就是配蜗牛的。这道菜需要用佩诺茴香酒(Pernod)蒸贻贝，去壳，将贻贝肉放在壳上，上面覆上混合了佩诺茴香酒的蒜蓉黄油，然后用烤箱烤。但是它们如此美味，我都不介意大费周章，而且多数的工序可以事先完成。
I’ll serve these as part of an hors d’oeuvres spread that will also include the dead-simple combination of potato chips topped with lemony crème fraîche and salmon roe. This dish is more about shopping than cooking. You need to get the salmon roe, which can be found at fishmongers and specialty markets, and some good small-batch potato chips. But once you have those, it’s a snap.
我会把它作为一道丰盛前菜的一部分，除这之外里面还有上面放有柠檬味法式酸奶油和三文鱼籽的薯片组合，这就再简单不过了。做这道菜其实更麻烦的是采购，而不是烹制的过程。你需要买三文鱼籽，这在鱼店和特色市场上就能买到，还需要一些优质的小包薯片。但一旦买齐了这些东西，做起来就很容易。
Hot crab dip, with its gooey layer of melted cheese, may not be the most sophisticated offering on the menu, but there will not be a speck of it left. And you can mix it up a day ahead. Just bake it right before serving so the cheese stays nice and oozy. As a slight twist, and to sneak another fish onto the menu, I added chopped oysters. It deepens the saline flavor of the dip, though you can leave them out since they do bring the fish total to eight.
蟹酱里混合了一层融化后粘糊糊的奶酪，它在菜单上可能不能算是最精制的一道，但每次都会吃得一点儿不剩。你可以提前一天就把它配好。只要在上菜前烤一下，让奶酪变得又香又软就行了。但我对食谱做了一些改动，给菜单上又加了一味海鲜，放入了剁碎的牡蛎。它会让蟹酱的口味更浓郁，但你也可以不加，因为这样全餐的海鲜数量就会增加到八种。
A green chile-laced Thai squid salad rounds out the cocktail snacks, which I’ll serve, appropriately enough, with a classic Fish House rum punch.
一道点缀了绿椒的泰式鱿鱼沙拉将作为鸡尾酒小食。我会做得足够多，用来搭配传统的鱼库朗姆潘趣酒。
At the table, I’ll start everyone out with shrimp cocktail. But instead of boiling the shrimp, I’ll roast them, and serve them with tomato-horseradish aioli reminiscent of cocktail sauce, only richer.
等大家都坐定后，我会先端上鸡尾冷虾。但虾不是煮出来的，而是烤一下，配上蕃茄辣根蒜泥蛋黄酱。这有点鸡尾酱的味道，但口感更丰厚。
Every holiday meal needs a grand showstopper of a main course. On Thanksgiving, turkey; Easter, ham. And at a feast of the seven fishes, a very large whole roasted fish brought to the table with head and tail intact is visually dramatic and incredibly tasty.
每一桌节日大餐都得有一个令人叫绝的主菜。在感恩节是火鸡，在复活节是火腿。而在七鲜宴上，一条巨大的头尾俱全的烤鱼端上桌时则会视觉效果绝佳，味道也非常棒。
Even better is that it’s a breeze to cook (season it up, throw it into the oven and wait) and almost as easy to serve (big fish have big bones, which makes it easy to scoop the flesh off the skeleton). Remember to call your fishmonger ahead to order a very large fish. This recipe, with lemons, herbs and crisp wild mushrooms, will work with any four-to-six-pound fish, from delicate, white-fleshed black sea bass to salmon-colored Arctic char. The variety of fish is less important than the size.
更好的是，这做起来很容易（调味、丢入烤箱，然后等待即可），也同样容易分菜（大鱼的刺都很大，容易把肉从骨头上剃下来）。记得要提前给鱼店老板打电话定一条很大的鱼。这个加柠檬、香草和爽口野蘑菇的菜谱适用任何4到6磅（约合1.8到2.7公斤）重的鱼，不论是肉质鲜嫩的白色黑海鲈鱼，还是粉色的北极鲑鱼。鱼的大小比品种更为重要。
The final fishy course is where that anchovy-dressed salad makes its appearance. Using radicchio and arugula makes it Christmas-colored.
最后就轮到那道加了凤尾鱼的沙拉出场了。用一点菊苣和芝麻菜让它更有圣诞节的色彩。
After all that, it’s a good idea to ask someone else to bring dessert. You can reassure them that all seven fishes have been accounted for. A chocolate babka, however, would be divine.
七道菜上毕，最好能让客人带甜点。你可以让他们不用担心，因为七种海鲜已经足够多了。可是，如果能有巧克力巴布卡蛋糕的话，就再完美不过了。