“The Luminaries,” Eleanor Catton’s remarkable second novel — the winner of this year’s Man Booker Prize — is a lot of things, and I mean a lot, but above all, perhaps, it is a love story, one that takes all of 826 pages to truly arrive. And it’s not even a novel in the normal sense, but rather a mass confabulation that evaporates in front of us, an astrological divination waning like the moon, the first section 360 pages long (or are those degrees?), the last a mere sliver. But it’s a sliver that delivers.
埃莉诺·卡顿(Eleanor Catton)精彩的第二部小说《发光体》(The Luminaries)获得了今年的布克奖。它有很多主题，但它首先是个爱情故事，这个故事用了全部的826页才真正浮现出来。按照通常的标准，它甚至不能算一部小说，而是在我们面前消失的一个巨大的幻景，一个像月亮那样逐渐变小的占星预测，第一部分有360页长（这也可能是个经度？），最后一部分只有一小点。但是这个爱情故事正是在这最后一小点中点出来的。
As Catton’s structural sphere wanes, the growing darkness reveals a starscape that grows and turns and folds in on itself, mystery upon enigma, lie upon misunderstanding, coincidence upon conspiracy, all of it complete with astrological charts I was unable to understand but still loved to study. A score of major characters take turns as protagonist. They headline in set pieces and protracted scenes, suffer shootings and poisonings, enact strategic whoring, survive storms at sea, find treasure sewn in dresses, lose the treasure, find it again. We meet estranged brothers, meddling clergymen, swindling magnates, investigative journalists, Maori wise men, confidence gamers, Chinese prospectors (speaking in their own language). Finally we fall for those lovers I mentioned, the two of them separated by fate and the machinations of men, and oh, how we wish them well amid disaster.
卡顿结构体的亏缺，越来越浓重的黑暗展示出一幅星空景象，它不断增长、变换、收缩，神秘源于谜题，谎言源于误解，巧合源于阴谋，所有这些都与占星图吻合，我看不懂占星图，但是还是乐于琢磨。二十个主要人物轮流担任主角。他们在小说的常见情节和延长场景中成为中心人物，遭过枪击，被投过毒，为了活命假装堕落，在海上暴风雨中逃生，找到缝在衣服中的财宝，失去财宝，重又获得财宝。我们见到不和的兄弟，多管闲事的牧师，爱骗人的富豪，爱调查的记者，毛利哲人，骗取别人信任的游戏玩家，中国探矿者（他们说自己的语言）。最后，我们见到了上面提到的那对恋人，他们被命运和阴谋分开，哦，我们多么希望他们能逃过劫难。
It’s a lot of fun, like doing a Charlotte Brontë-themed crossword puzzle while playing chess and Dance Dance Revolution on a Bongo Board. Some readers will delight in the challenge, others may despair. I went both ways: always lost in admiration for this young New Zealander’s vast knowledge and narrative skill, sometimes lost in her game, wishing at times for more warmth, delighted by her old-school chapter headings (“In which a stranger arrives . . . ”  “In which Quee Long brings a complaint before the law . . . ”), puzzled by her astrology, Googling everything twice and three times, scratching my head, laughing out loud, sighing with pleasure at sudden connections, flipping back pages and chapters and whole sections for rereadings, forging ahead with excitement renewed. 
这本书十分有趣，就像在玩以夏洛特·勃朗特(Charlotte Brontë)为主题的字谜游戏的同时，还得站在晃板上一边下棋一边玩跳舞机。有的读者会为这种挑战感到欣喜，也有的读者会感到绝望。这两种感觉我都有过：总是仰慕这个新西兰年轻人广博的知识和精湛的叙事技巧，有时也迷失在她的游戏中，有时希望得到更多温暖，有时为她老式的章节标题（“本章中出现了一个陌生人……”“本章中奎伊·朗[Quee Long]起诉……”）欣喜，有时被她的占星学搞糊涂，在网上把所有术语都查上两三遍，有时抓耳挠腮，有时放声大笑，有时为突然之间的联系而欣慰地松一口气，有时快速翻回去好几页、好几章甚至好几部分重读某些段落，有时带着新的兴奋点继续往下看。
The setting, circa 1866, is the gold rush town of Hokitika, in the wild southwest of New Zealand, a place where the Maori had long sought greenstone. A type of jade, as a quick Internet search reveals, and holy. It took European settlers to notice the unholy gold, great chunks of it wedged between boulders in the Hokitika River, and more buried everywhere. The town is only a few years old, but already there are mansions on the hillsides. And a jail in progress. A busy courthouse. And a newspaper. Ships coming in and out of a treacherous harbor daily, sometimes foundering. Saloons in hotels alongside brothels and banks. 
故事大约发生于1866年，发生在新西兰西南部荒野中的淘金小镇霍基蒂卡，长久以来毛利族在此采掘绿岩。在网上你很快就能查出来，绿岩是一种玉，具有灵性。欧洲定居者注意到的是那些没有灵性的金子，它们大块大块地嵌在霍基蒂卡河的大卵石之间，随便哪里的地下都埋有更多金子。这座小镇刚建成几年，但是山坡上已经有了一些住宅。一座监狱正在修建之中。法庭十分忙碌。还有一份报纸。每天都有轮船在一个变化莫测的港口进进出出，有时船会沉没。妓院和银行旁边的酒店里有酒吧。
The story opens, naturally, on a dark and stormy night, with the shaken seaborne arrival of one Walter Moody, a Scotsman trained in law but not yet a barrister, nearly 28 years old (Eleanor Catton’s current age, as it happens), here to make his fortune, running away from bad fortune, too. Even frazzled, he’s very aware of the impression he makes, and he manages it carefully: cool and collected, trustworthy. Shipboard he has seen something he can’t explain, a specter so horrible he can hardly bear to recall it.
这个故事很自然地在一个黑暗的暴风雨之夜开始，沃尔特·穆迪(Walter Moody)搭乘一艘摇摇晃晃的轮船来到小镇。他是苏格兰人，受过法律教育，但还不是律师，差不多28岁（碰巧是埃莉诺·卡顿获奖的年龄），他来这里是为了寻找财富，也是为了逃离厄运。即便很疲惫，他还是非常注意自己给人留下的印象，努力表现得冷静镇定，让人觉得值得信赖。他在船上看到了某种自己不能解释的东西——一个幽灵，可怕得让他想都不敢想。
Safe at the scruffy Crown Hotel, he seeks refuge in the smoking room and happens upon a meeting in progress, 12 men with names as Dickensian as his own: Frost and Clinch and Mannering, to name a few, even a minister named Devlin. But each has a glancing connection to some aspect of an unstated crime. They meet to get their stories straight, to put the pieces together, to effect a happy ending, to protect their interests joint and several.
他安全抵达破旧的皇冠酒店之后，在吸烟室里安神，碰巧赶上了一个聚会，与会的12个人的名字和他本人的名字一样像狄更斯小说中人物的名字：比如弗罗斯特(Frost)、克林奇(Clinch)和曼纳林(Mannering)，甚至还有个牧师叫德夫林(Devlin)。他们每个人都与一个没有明说的犯罪行为有一点联系。他们会面是为了把事情弄清楚，把每个人知道的情况汇聚在一起，以实现一个圆满的结局，保护他们的共同利益和个人利益。
The dazzling narration, arch as Jane Austen’s, looks into Moody’s level head as he endeavors to discover what’s going on, and whether the apparition he’s seen is part of the puzzle. He’s Sherlock Holmes, he’s Joseph Conrad’s rational man. A conspiracy is in progress, and Walter Moody prides himself on his grasp of people. Drinks are poured, the billiards table goes quiet. One thing is not in doubt: A tale is about to be told.
令人眼花缭乱的讲述像简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)的小说一样曲折，穆迪冷静地听着，努力想弄清到底发生了什么事，想知道他看到的那个幽灵是否与这个谜有关。他是夏洛克·福尔摩斯(Sherlock Holmes)，是约瑟夫·康拉德(Joseph Conrad)笔下的理性之人。一场阴谋正在进行，沃尔特·穆迪很为自己对他人的洞察而自豪。酒倒好了，台球桌安静了。有一点确定无疑：一个故事即将开讲。
Thomas Balfour, a shipping agent, takes center stage, becomes the mind of the story. Our omniscient narrator lets us listen to him awhile, then apologizes for the man’s poor storytelling and offers to paraphrase, help him get to the point. This deft strategy pushes Walter Moody aside and eventually allows glimpses into the minds of all the men in the room, with their plentiful secrets and curious interlockings. We struggle along with Moody to put the facts in a line. Each man has a piece of the puzzle. Each is innocent, each is guilty. No one is simple, everyone’s got motives, all construct their own moral universes, each absolving himself.
船务代理商托马斯·鲍尔弗(Thomas Balfour)占据了舞台的中央，成为这个故事的灵魂。我们无所不知的作者让我们听他讲了一会儿，然后为他讲故事的糟糕技巧道歉，为我们进行了解释，帮我们理解他的意思。这个巧妙的策略把沃尔特·穆迪排除在外。最后作者还让我们一窥房间里每个人的想法，让我们知道他们各自的很多秘密以及相互之间不可思议的联系。我们和穆迪一起努力想把事实弄清。每个人都有拼图的一角。每个人都是无辜的，又都是有罪的。谁都不简单，谁都有自己的目的，都在构建自己的道德世界，为自己开脱。
A hermit has died in a remote cottage on a muddy claim. A fortune has gone missing. A politician seems to be involved, also a ship’s captain, also a battered prostitute, also a Chinese indentured worker, also a stoical Maori greenstone hunter, Te Rau Tauwhare (“His face was tattooed in a way that reminded Balfour of the wind patterns on a map”). Moreover, Emery Staines, a well-liked and much admired young prospector, the richest man in town, has disappeared. And Lydia Wells has arrived, claiming to be the hermit’s wife. That shambling old fool? He had a wife? She’s been a madam, but she wants to clean up her act, open a séance parlor. Miners believe in omens, and any guidance they can find will do. A lady’s got to make a living.
一个隐士在一个偏远的村舍中死去。一大笔财富不知去向。与此有牵连的包括一个政客、一个船长、一个被虐待的妓女、一个中国契约工人以及禁欲的毛利绿石寻找者特·劳·汤沃（Te Rau Tauwhare，“他脸上的图腾让鲍尔弗想起了地图上的风向图”）。另外，埃默里·斯坦斯(Emery Staines)失踪了，他是镇上最富有的人，是个深受喜爱、备受尊敬的年轻的采矿者。莉迪娅·威尔斯(Lydia Wells)来到小镇上，声称自己是那个隐士的妻子。那个呆滞的老傻瓜？他有妻子？她做过老鸨，但是她想金盆洗手，开了个灵媒会所。旷工们相信预兆，相信他们能找到的任何指引。一个女士总得想法子糊口。
As the story proceeds, we feel the keys falling out of our hands over and over again, the mystery deepening. Walter Moody drifts offstage. We’re left to do his job ourselves, at least till he returns and sets us straight. The men of the conspiracy seek one another out, and tidbits of information emerge in their hurried conversations, which take place all over town. People who seem likable suddenly do despicable things. People who seem terrible suddenly offer kindness.
随着故事向前发展，我们感觉解开谜题的钥匙一次次从我们手中滑落，这个谜团变得更加扑朔迷离。沃尔特·穆迪慢慢离开了舞台。他的工作只能留给我们自己来做，直到他又回来帮我们弄清楚。参与这个阴谋的人被一个个相互找了出来，一些重要的小信息在他们匆忙的谈话中显露出来，这些谈话在小镇的各个地方进行。那些看似可爱的人突然之间做出卑鄙的事情。那些看似恶劣的人突然之间大发善心。
A poor and sickly prostitute, Anna Wetherell, clearly high on opium, is jailed despite grievous injuries. The jailer, Shepard (note the name), is one of those black-and-white thinkers: right is right, and wrong is wrong. We’ve judged her along with him. But through the eyes of the grabby hotelier named Clinch, one of Anna’s many admirers, we see that she is a fallen angel — that staple of Victorian literature — and we’re prematurely relieved when Lydia Wells offers her asylum. 
贫病交加的妓女安娜·韦瑟雷尔(Anna Wetherell)显然吸食了很多鸦片，尽管身受重伤，但还是被送进了监狱。狱卒谢泼德（Shepard，注意这个名字。Shepard与Shepherd[牧羊犬]一词接近——译注）是那种黑白分明的人：对的就是对的，错的就是错的。我们刚才是依他的眼光来评判她。但是透过安娜的众多爱慕者之一、贪婪的酒店老板克林奇的眼光，我们发现她是个堕落天使——维多利亚时代文学的常见主题——所以当莉迪娅·威尔斯收留她的时候，我们已经提前放心了。
Lydia will train her in the medium’s art. Together, they’ll try to resurrect the spirit of Emery Staines, a show everyone wants to see, perhaps most of all Anna, who is in love with this sweet and optimistic wanderer. And before long the story begins to revolve around the star-crossed couple. They, as it will turn out, are the luminaries (or, in non-astrological parlance, the sun and moon) of this monumental book, a pair with a genuinely mystical connection: when one is wounded, the other bleeds.
莉迪娅将把她培养成一个灵媒。她们将一起努力使埃默里·斯坦斯的灵魂复活，每个人都想看到这个场面，也许最想看的是安娜，因为她爱上了这个亲切、乐观的游魂。很快，故事就开始围绕这对不幸的恋人展开。后来揭示出他们就是这部不朽之作中的发光体（用非占星术的话说，就是太阳和月亮），他们之间真的有神秘的联系：一个人受伤的时候，另一个人就会流血。
“The Luminaries” is a true achievement. Catton has built a lively parody of a 19th-century novel, and in so doing created a novel for the 21st, something utterly new. The pages fly, the great weight of the book shifting quickly from right hand to left, a world opening and closing in front of us, the human soul revealed in all its conflicted desperation. I mean glory. And as for the length, surely a book this good could never be too long.
《发光体》是一部真正的杰作。这本书既是在模仿19世纪的小说，又是全新的、属于21世纪的小说。书一页页飞快地翻过去，书的重量很快从右边转移到了左边，一个世界在我们眼前打开又合上，展现出人类灵魂充满矛盾的绝望。我的意思是它真的很精彩。至于长度，这样的好书谁都不会嫌长。