LAST night I dreamed about mercury — huge, shining globules of quicksilver rising and falling. Mercury is element number 80, and my dream is a reminder that on Tuesday, I will be 80 myself.
昨晚我做了一个关于水银的梦——大颗闪亮的滴状水银在上升和下降。水银的元素编号是80，我的梦是在提醒我，周二我就80岁了。
Elements and birthdays have been intertwined for me since boyhood, when I learned about atomic numbers. At 11, I could say “I am sodium” (Element 11), and now at 79, I am gold. A few years ago, when I gave a friend a bottle of mercury for his 80th birthday — a special bottle that could neither leak nor break — he gave me a peculiar look, but later sent me a charming letter in which he joked, “I take a little every morning for my health.”
当我还是个小男孩时，我就开始学习原子序数。自那以后，化学元素和生日就交织在了一起。11岁的时候，我会说“我是钠”（11号元素），如今我79岁，是“金”。几年前，我在一个朋友80大寿的时候，送给他一个装着水银的瓶子——这是一个特殊的瓶子，既不会漏也不会破——他狐疑地看了我一眼，但后来他给我写来一封令人开心的信，他在信上开玩笑说，“为了我的健康，我每天早上都会啜上一小口。”
Eighty! I can hardly believe it. I often feel that life is about to begin, only to realize it is almost over. My mother was the 16th of 18 children; I was the youngest of her four sons, and almost the youngest of the vast cousinhood on her side of the family. I was always the youngest boy in my class at high school. I have retained this feeling of being the youngest, even though now I am almost the oldest person I know.
80岁了！我简直难以相信。我经常感觉生活即将开始，却又意识到它即将结束。我的母亲在18个兄弟姐妹中排行16；我是她四个儿子中最小的一个，和我母亲那边的众多表亲相比也几乎是最小的一个。高中时期，我总是班级里年龄最小的男孩。我一直维持着这种自己最年轻的感觉，即使今天我几乎已经成了自己认识的年龄最大的人。
I thought I would die at 41, when I had a bad fall and broke a leg while mountaineering alone. I splinted the leg as best I could and started to lever myself down the mountain, clumsily, with my arms. In the long hours that followed, I was assailed by memories, both good and bad. Most were in a mode of gratitude — gratitude for what I had been given by others, gratitude, too, that I had been able to give something back. “Awakenings” had been published the previous year.
我以为我41岁时会死去，我在独自登山时严重摔伤，当时摔断了一条腿。我尽可能地把腿固定好，然后开始笨拙地用双臂把自己撑下山。在下山的漫长途中，好的坏的回忆向我袭来。其中大多数回忆都让我感激万分——我感激别人对我的付出，也感激我能回报他们。在登山事故的前一年，我出版了《觉醒》(Awakenings)一书。
At nearly 80, with a scattering of medical and surgical problems, none disabling, I feel glad to be alive — “I’m glad I’m not dead!” sometimes bursts out of me when the weather is perfect. (This is in contrast to a story I heard from a friend who, walking with Samuel Beckett in Paris on a perfect spring morning, said to him, “Doesn’t a day like this make you glad to be alive?” to which Beckett answered, “I wouldn’t go as far as that.”) I am grateful that I have experienced many things — some wonderful, some horrible — and that I have been able to write a dozen books, to receive innumerable letters from friends, colleagues and readers, and to enjoy what Nathaniel Hawthorne called “an intercourse with the world.”
在临近80岁时，虽然会经受零星的医疗问题和手术问题，但好在都并不致残，我还是为活着而感到快乐——“真高兴我没死！”在天气好的日子里，这种想法有时会从我的脑海里蹦出。（这和我从一位朋友处听来的故事截然相反，这位朋友在一个美好的春日早晨和塞缪尔·贝克特[Samuel Beckett]在巴黎散步时，对贝克特说，“这样的日子不会让你为自己还活着而感到高兴吗？”贝克特回答道，“对我来说还不至于。”）对于我所经历过的很多事情，我万分感激。这些事情有的美好，有的可怕。我出了十多本书，收到朋友、同事和读者写来的无数信件，还体会到了纳撒尼尔·霍桑(Nathaniel Hawthorne)所称的“和世界的交流”。
I am sorry I have wasted (and still waste) so much time; I am sorry to be as agonizingly shy at 80 as I was at 20; I am sorry that I speak no languages but my mother tongue and that I have not traveled or experienced other cultures as widely as I should have done.
我后悔自己浪费了（现在还在浪费）太多时间；我遗憾自己在80岁时还和20岁那样万分羞怯；我还后悔自己除了母语之外不能说别的语言，也没有尽我所能地广泛游历或体验别的文化。
I feel I should be trying to complete my life, whatever “completing a life” means. Some of my patients in their 90s or 100s say nunc dimittis — “I have had a full life, and now I am ready to go.” For some of them, this means going to heaven — it is always heaven rather than hell, though Samuel Johnson and James Boswell both quaked at the thought of going to hell and got furious with David Hume, who entertained no such beliefs. I have no belief in (or desire for) any post-mortem existence, other than in the memories of friends and the hope that some of my books may still “speak” to people after my death.
我觉得我应该尽量让我的生活完满，不管“生活完满”意味着什么。我的一些病人在90多岁或100多岁的高龄与世长辞时说，“我度过了充实的人生，现在我准备撒手离世。”对其中一些人来说，这意味着升入天堂——总是天堂，而不是地狱，尽管塞缪尔·约翰逊(Samuel Johnson)和詹姆斯·博斯韦尔(James Boswell)都为下地狱的想法感到恐惧，并对大卫·休谟(David Hume)怒火相向，因为休谟并不抱有这样的信仰。我并不相信（也不渴望）我在死后会继续存在，除了在朋友的回忆中。我还希望我的一些书，能在我死后继续向人们“讲述”。
W. H. Auden often told me he thought he would live to 80 and then “bugger off” (he lived only to 67). Though it is 40 years since his death, I often dream of him, and of my parents and of former patients — all long gone but loved and important in my life.
W·H·奥登(W. H. Auden)常常告诉我，他认为他会活到80岁，然后“滚蛋”（他只活到67岁）。虽然距他离世已有40年了，我还经常梦到他，梦到我的父母及之前的病人，他们都已去世很久，但却是我们生命中的至爱，对我十分重要。
At 80, the specter of dementia or stroke looms. A third of one’s contemporaries are dead, and many more, with profound mental or physical damage, are trapped in a tragic and minimal existence. At 80 the marks of decay are all too visible. One’s reactions are a little slower, names more frequently elude one, and one’s energies must be husbanded, but even so, one may often feel full of energy and life and not at all “old.” Perhaps, with luck, I will make it, more or less intact, for another few years and be granted the liberty to continue to love and work, the two most important things, Freud insisted, in life.
80岁的人面临痴呆和中风的困扰。有三分之一的同龄人都已去世，还有更多同龄人出现严重的精神和身体问题，陷入悲惨境地，苟延余生。80岁这样的年纪，衰老的痕迹再明显不过。反应变得有点慢，常常想不起名字，精力不足，但即便如此，他们可能经常感觉充满活力和生命力，一点也不“老”。或许，我能有幸或多或少地安然度过几年，仍能继续自由地爱和工作，弗洛伊德(Freud)坚持认为，爱与工作是人生最重要的两件事。
When my time comes, I hope I can die in harness, as Francis Crick did. When he was told that his colon cancer had returned, at first he said nothing; he simply looked into the distance for a minute and then resumed his previous train of thought. When pressed about his diagnosis a few weeks later, he said, “Whatever has a beginning must have an ending.” When he died, at 88, he was still fully engaged in his most creative work.
当我大限将至时，我希望能在工作中死去，就像弗朗西斯·克里克(Francis Crick)一样。当他被告知自己的结肠癌复发时，他起初没有说话，只是远眺了一分钟，然后继续之前的思路。当几周后，有人追问他的诊断时，他说，“有始必有终。”他在88岁去世的时候，仍然在全心投入自己最具创造性的工作。
My father, who lived to 94, often said that the 80s had been one of the most enjoyable decades of his life. He felt, as I begin to feel, not a shrinking but an enlargement of mental life and perspective. One has had a long experience of life, not only one’s own life, but others’, too. One has seen triumphs and tragedies, booms and busts, revolutions and wars, great achievements and deep ambiguities, too. One has seen grand theories rise, only to be toppled by stubborn facts. One is more conscious of transience and, perhaps, of beauty. At 80, one can take a long view and have a vivid, lived sense of history not possible at an earlier age. I can imagine, feel in my bones, what a century is like, which I could not do when I was 40 or 60. I do not think of old age as an ever grimmer time that one must somehow endure and make the best of, but as a time of leisure and freedom, freed from the factitious urgencies of earlier days, free to explore whatever I wish, and to bind the thoughts and feelings of a lifetime together.
我父亲活到了94岁，他经常说80多岁的时候是他一生中最愉快的时光之一。他感觉精神生活和视野不断扩大，而不是萎缩，我也开始有这种感觉。80岁的人有漫长的生活体验，不仅是自己的生活，也有其他人的生活。80岁的人经历过成功与失败，繁荣与萧条，革命和战争，取得过成就，也有过深深的迷茫。80岁的人见证了宏大理论的涌现，而这些理论却被顽固的事实推翻。80岁的人能更强烈地意识到时光短暂，或许也能感受到美。到了80岁这样的年纪，人能够放眼长远，有一种早年不可能拥有的鲜活的历史感。我能凭直觉想象一个世纪是什么样子，但在40或60岁时，我却无法做到。我认为年老不是一种我们必须以某种方式忍耐并充分利用的可怕日子，而是一段安逸、自由的时光，摆脱了早先那些虚假的急迫情形，自由地探索我希望探索的一切，将一生的思想与感触结合在一起。
I am looking forward to being 80.
我期盼80岁的到来。