For decades, the image of Queen Elizabeth II surrounded by corgis has been a beloved symbol of the British monarchy.
几十年来，女王伊丽莎白二世(Queen Elizabeth II)被柯基犬围绕的形象，一直是英国王室的一个令人喜爱的标志。
So a report in The Daily Mail that the queen’s last corgi, Willow, had died, naturally sent the British press (and more than a few outlets in the empire’s former colonies) into a tizzy. Buckingham Palace declined to comment or answer questions, saying the issue was a private matter.
《每日邮报》(The Daily Mail)报道称，女王的最后一只柯基犬威洛(Willow)去世了，这自然引起英国媒体（以及前帝国殖民地的多家媒体）一片哗然。白金汉宫拒绝置评或回答问题，称这是一个私人问题。
But with much of the internet mourning the apparent end of the royal corgi lineage, now feels like a good time to explain the enduring appeal of the royal pets.
英王室柯基家族世系沿袭显然已到终点，引来许多网民的哀悼，此时此刻，似乎有必要对皇家宠物经久不衰的魅力做出一番解释。
‘Dookie’ Joins the Royal Family
“杜基”加入王室
The House of Windsor came by its first corgi in 1933, when King George VI, then the Duke of York, acquired a puppy known as Dookie for his family.
1933年，温莎王朝有了第一只柯基犬，当时还是约克公爵的乔治六世为他的家族购得一只名为“杜基”(Dookie)的小狗。
He was joined shortly thereafter by Jane, who was with the royal family until 1944, when she was fatally struck by a car.
不久之后，王室又迎来了简(Jane)，它一直陪伴着王室成员，直到1944年被汽车撞死。
Susan was given to Elizabeth later that year, as an 18th birthday present. According to an article in Vanity Fair, Elizabeth, then a princess, became so inseparable with her dog that she sneaked Susan with her and Prince Philip on their honeymoon in 1947.
那年晚些时候，有人将苏珊(Susan)作为18岁生日礼物送给了伊丽莎白。据《名利场》杂志(Vanity Fair)的一篇文章称，当时身为公主的伊丽莎白与她的爱犬形影不离。1947年，她和菲利普亲王(Prince Philip)去度蜜月时偷偷带上了苏珊。
Over the nearly 80 years since the queen acquired Susan, she and her family have continued to breed dogs from Susan’s lineage. The queen has owned at least 30 Pembroke Welsh corgis, all of whom have descended from Susan. Willow was believed to be part of the 14th generation in the line.
在女王得到苏珊后的近80年里，她和家人一直在繁育苏珊的后代。女王至少拥有30只彭布罗克威尔士柯基犬，都是苏珊的后代。威洛据信为第14代。
But Willow’s death would signal the end of an era for the queen, who reportedly stopped breeding corgis sometime after the death of her mother in 2002.
不过，对女王来说，威洛的去世将标志着一个时代的终结。据报道，在2002年母亲死后不久，女王停止了柯基犬的繁育。
In 2015, Monty Roberts, a horse trainer who has advised Queen Elizabeth, told Vanity Fair that the queen said to him in 2012 that “she didn’t want to leave any young dog behind.”
2015年，曾给伊丽莎白女王担任顾问的驯马师蒙蒂·罗伯茨(Monty Roberts)在接受《名利场》采访时表示，女王在2012年曾对他说，“她不想死后留下任何幼犬在世。”
The Palace Still Has ‘Dorgis’
没有柯基还有“多基”
Still, while Buckingham Palace may have lost its corgis, the so-called “dorgis” remain.
不过，尽管白金汉宫可能没有柯基犬了，但还有所谓的“多基”(dorgis)。
The queen has two such dogs, Vulcan and Candy, who are part of a crossbreed created when a dachshund belonging to the queen’s sister, Princess Margaret, mated with one of the queen’s corgis.
女王有两只这样的狗——瓦肯(Vulcan)和坎迪(Candy)——它们是杂交品种，由女王的妹妹玛格丽特公主(Princess Margaret)的一只腊肠犬与女王的一只柯基犬交配所生。
Queen Elizabeth has also had other dogs over the years, including hunting dogs like the ones bred at Sandringham, her royal estate in Norfolk, England, just over 100 miles north of Buckingham Palace. At one point, she also adopted a Sealyham terrier from her sister.
这些年来，伊丽莎白女王还有过其他狗，包括在英格兰诺福克郡桑德灵厄姆(Sandringham)皇家庄园的猎犬。桑德灵厄姆位于白金汉宫以北100多英里处。她还曾从妹妹那里领养了一只西里汉姆㹴。
Beware of the Dogs
小心有狗
Despite the constant presence of animals, the corgis’ time with the royal family has not been without incident.
尽管一直有宠物存在，但柯基犬在王室里并不是没闯过祸。
In 1954, one of the queen’s corgis — there were three at the time — bit a member of the Queen’s Guard. Some time earlier, The International Herald Tribune reported, one of them, believed to be Susan, had also bitten the royal clockwinder.
1954年，女王的一只柯基犬——当时共有三只——咬了女王卫队的一名成员。据《国际先驱论坛报》(The International Herald Tribune)报道称，在那之前，还有一只狗咬了皇家钟表保养师，据说是苏珊咬的。
Fourteen years later, a member of Parliament called upon the royal family to post “Beware of the Dog” signs outside the queen’s residences after one of the corgis bit a postal worker delivering mail to Balmoral Castle in Scotland.
十四年后，在其中一只柯基犬咬了一名往苏格兰巴尔莫勒尔城堡(Balmoral Castle)送信的邮差后，一名议员呼吁王室在女王宅邸外张贴“小心有狗”的警示牌。
The queen herself hasn’t been spared, either. In 1991, she was bitten by one of the dogs after she tried to break up a fight between some of them, Reuters reported.
女王本人也未能幸免。据路透社(Reuters)报道称，1991年，女王在试图阻止几只狗打架时，被其中一只狗咬伤。
She wasn’t the only victim; her mother’s chauffeur at the time was also bitten and had to receive a tetanus shot.
她不是唯一的受害者，当时她母亲的司机也被咬伤，不得不注射破伤风疫苗。
It wasn’t the only time relationships between the dogs and the royal staff have sometimes been strained. In 1999, a royal footman was demoted after he allegedly spiked the dogs’ food and water with gin and whiskey. He was reportedly caught when an exam on one of the dogs found traces of alcohol in its blood.
这并不是狗和皇家工作人员之间唯一一次关系紧张。1999年，一名男仆因涉嫌往狗的食物和水中注射杜松子酒和威士忌而被降职。据报道，他是在其中一只狗体检时发现血液中含有酒精后被发现的。
‘Barking All the Time’
“没完没了地叫”
It also appears that not everyone in the royal family has shared the queen’s enthusiasm for her fleet of corgis. In a television interview in 2012, Prince William, the queen’s grandson and the second in line to the British throne, expressed some issues with the dogs.
似乎并不是所有的王室成员都和女王一样，对她的柯基犬队充满热情。在2012年的一次电视采访中，女王的孙子、英国王位第二顺位继承人威廉王子(Prince William)表达了对它们的一些意见。
“They’re barking all the time,” he said. “I don’t know how she copes with it.”
“它们没完没了地叫，”他说，“我不知道她是怎么应付的。”
Prince Harry, his brother, has also registered a noise complaint. “I’ve spent the last 33 years being barked at,” he told the BBC in 2017.
他的弟弟哈里王子(Prince Harry)也对噪音表达了不满。“在过去的33年里，一直有狗在冲我叫，”他在2017年接受BBC采访时说。
One person who did receive the dogs’ approval? Prince Harry’s fiancée, Meghan Markle.
有谁得到了这些狗的认可吗？有，哈里王子的未婚妻梅根·马克尔(Meghan Markle)。
In the BBC interview, the prince commented that the dogs “took to [Markle] straight away.”
在BBC的采访中，哈里王子评论说，这些狗“立刻就喜欢上［马克尔］了”。
“That’s true,” Ms. Markle replied.
“没错，”马克尔回应道。
It wasn’t the dogs’ only moment in the spotlight.
这不是柯基们唯一受关注的时刻。
In 2012, Willow co-starred in a sketch that opened the London Olympics. In the taped skit, James Bond (played by Daniel Craig) travels to Buckingham Palace to escort the queen to the Olympic opening ceremony. Joining Willow were Holly, who reportedly died in 2016, and Monty, who died in 2012.
2012年，威洛联袂主演了伦敦奥运会的开幕短片。在录制的短剧中，詹姆斯·邦德（丹尼尔·克雷格[Daniel Craig]饰演）来到了白金汉宫护送女王前往奥运会开幕式。与威洛一同参演的有霍莉，据说它在2016年去世了，还有2012年去世的蒙蒂。
The corgis are featured in close-ups as they greet Bond, follow him and the queen down the stairs of the palace and stay still as a helicopter takes off for London Stadium.
柯基们迎接邦德，跟着他和女王走下白金汉宫的楼梯，静静地望着直升机飞向伦敦体育场，都是用特写镜头呈现。
Willow and Holly, along with their dorgi cousins, were also featured prominently in a Vanity Fair cover that celebrated the queen’s 90th birthday. In a photograph taken by Annie Leibovitz, Holly sits next to queen in Windsor Castle while Willow, Vulcan and Candy roam at her feet.
威洛、霍莉和它们的多基表亲还醒目地出现在了《名利场》庆祝女王90岁生日的封面上。在一张由安妮·莱博维茨(Annie Leibovitz)拍摄的照片中，霍莉在温莎城堡里坐在女王的身边，威洛、瓦肯和坎迪在她的脚边溜达。
The Corgis in Pop Culture
流行文化中的柯基
Over the nearly 80 years that the queen has owned the corgis, they have become so closely associated with her that the dogs have even made their way into pop culture depictions of the monarchy.
女王养了将近八十年的柯基，它们已经如此紧密地与她联系在了一起，以至于被写进了流行文化对君主政治的描述中。
The dogs are featured in “The King’s Speech,” the 2010 movie depicting King George VI’s ascension to the throne. The corgis are prominent enough throughout “The Queen,” in which Helen Mirren portrayed Queen Elizabeth during the aftermath of the death of Princess Diana in 1997, that the dogs portraying them received awards for their onscreen performances.
它们参演了讲述乔治六世国王走上王位历程的2010年影片《国王的演讲》(The King’s Speech)。在由海伦·米伦(Helen Mirren)主演、讲述1997年戴安娜王妃逝世后那段时期的伊丽莎白女王的《女王》(The Queen)中，柯基也十分惹眼，参演的狗还因为自己的荧幕表现获了奖。
Ms. Mirren later played opposite corgis again on stage as the queen in the play “The Audience” in 2013.
随后在2013年的话剧《观众》中，米伦再次在舞台上扮演女王与柯基对戏。
More recently, the corgis’ appearance in the Netflix series “The Crown” has been credited for renewing interest in the breed in Britain.
最近，柯基在Netflix连续剧《王冠》(The Crown)中的现身，被认为在英国再度燃起了对这个品种的兴趣。
“People used to have the impression that while corgis were in the spotlight, because of the queen, they could be seen by young people as an older person’s dog,” David Robson of the Kennel Club told The Telegraph in February. “Now that’s changed, partly because we are seeing the character of the younger queen surrounded by them.”
“人们之前的印象是，虽然柯基很受公众关注，但是因为女王的关系，它们可能被年轻人视为老年人的狗，”犬业俱乐部(Kennel Club)的戴维·罗布森(David Robson)在2月告诉《每日电讯报》(The Telegraph)。“现在这有了变化，部分原因是我们看到了这个有柯基围绕的、更年轻的女王角色。”