BEIJING — An 85-year-old American veteran of the Korean War was detained in North Korea last month as he was about to depart after having visited the country on a tourist visa, according to a senior United States official and an account posted Wednesday on the website of The San Jose Mercury News.
北京——根据一名高级美国官员的说法和《圣何塞水星报》(The San Jose Mercury News)的网站周三发布的一篇报道，一位85岁的美国朝鲜战争老兵于上月被朝鲜拘捕，这位老兵拿的是旅游签证，被捕时刚刚结束朝鲜旅游，打算离开。
The veteran, Merrill Newman of Palo Alto, Calif., was taken from the plane on which he was scheduled to leave North Korea on Oct. 26, the newspaper said on its website.
这位老兵名叫梅里尔·纽曼(Merrill Newman)，来自加利福尼亚的帕罗奥多。《圣何塞水星报》在其网站上说，他本打算乘坐10月26日的飞机离开朝鲜，却被人从飞机上带走了。
The detention of Mr. Newman, who was traveling with a tour group based in Beijing, came almost a year after the arrest of another American citizen, Kenneth Bae, who remains incarcerated in North Korea.
纽曼跟的是一个北京的旅游团；将近一年前，另一位美国公民肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)也在朝鲜被捕，目前仍处在监禁之中。
A spokesman at the United States Embassy in Beijing, Nolan Barkhouse, said, “We are aware of reports that a U.S. citizen was detained in North Korea, but we have no additional information to share at this time.”
美国驻华大使馆发言人柯英豪(Nolan Barkhouse)说，“我们知道有报道称一位美国公民在朝鲜被拘，但我们目前提供不了其他信息。”
The United States official described the detention of Mr. Newman without identifying him by name. The official declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the matter.
讲述纽曼被捕时，前述美国官员没有提及他的姓名。因为事情的敏感性，这位官员要求匿名。
Mr. Newman’s detention has not been reported in the North Korean state-run news media.
朝鲜官方媒体没有报道纽曼被捕一事。
In reaction to Mr. Newman’s detention, the State Department further tightened the United States travel warning to North Korea. The updated warning, released on Tuesday, begins with the statement that “the Department of State recommends against all travel by U.S. citizens to North Korea.”
作为回应，美国国务院加强了针对朝鲜的旅游警告。周二发布的新警告一开始就说，“国务院建议美国公民不要以任何理由前往朝鲜。”
It adds, “U.S. citizens crossing into North Korea, even accidentally, have been subject to arbitrary arrest and long-term detention.”
警告还说，“一些进入朝鲜境内的美国公民，哪怕是意外进入朝鲜的美国公民，遭到了毫无理由的逮捕及长期拘禁。”
Tours of North Korea that take American tourists to the capital, Pyongyang, and a few scenic places under strictly circumscribed conditions have become more frequent. Such tour groups provide a source of hard currency for the North Korean government, and can serve to give the impression that living standards in the capital are improving.
目前，朝鲜旅游项目越来越多，这些项目会在受到严格控制的情况下把美国游客带到朝鲜首都平壤和几个景区。这种旅游项目为朝鲜政府提供了一个硬通货来源，还可以被朝鲜政府用来炮制平壤生活水平正在提高的印象。
The new State Department advisory appears to strongly recommend against Americans joining such trips.
但是，新的国务院公告似乎强烈反对美国人参加这种旅游。
Mr. Newman was described in The Mercury News as a retired executive who had worked for California tech companies, including Convergent Technologies and Shugart Associates.
《圣何塞水星报》报道称，纽曼是一名退休高管，曾在加利福尼亚的一些技术公司工作，包括嘉合科技有限公司(Convergent Technologies)和舒加特联合公司(Shugart Associates)。
He served as an infantry officer during the Korean War, and later earned a master’s degree in education from Stanford University. He is a grandfather and lives at Channing House, a retirement community, with his wife, but has led an adventurous life traveling the world, including sailing trips around Central America, the newspaper said.
纽曼曾在朝鲜战争期间担任步兵军官，后来在斯坦福大学(Stanford University)获得硕士学位。该报报道称，纽曼已经当了祖父，与妻子住在退休人员社区钱宁公寓(Channing House)，但他过着环游世界的冒险生活，曾多次在中美洲航海旅行。
A receptionist at Channing House said Mr. Newman’s wife was not taking calls. But Channing House issued a statement from a friend of Mr. Newman’s, Bob Hamrdla: “There has to be a terrible misunderstanding. I hope that the North Koreans will see this as a humanitarian matter and allow him to return to his family as soon as possible.”
钱宁公寓的接待人员称，纽曼的妻子没有接电话。不过，钱宁公寓发布了纽曼的朋友鲍勃·哈姆德拉(Bob Hamrdla)所作的一份声明：“这肯定是可怕的误会。我希望朝鲜将此事视作人道主义问题，允许他尽快回家。”
Mr. Bae, 44, a Christian missionary, was arrested in the port of Rason in the northeast region of North Korea last November after leading a group of businessmen on a tour from the city of Yanji in northern China.
去年11月，44岁的基督教传教士肯尼斯·裴带领一队商人从中国北部的延吉前往朝鲜东北部的罗先，并在罗先被捕。
In May, he was sentenced to 15 years’ hard labor for committing “hostile acts” against the North. The work at the prison camp was so severe that Mr. Bae became ill and was sent to a hospital.
今年5月，肯尼斯·裴因针对朝鲜的“敌对行为”而被判处15年劳改。劳改营的工作十分辛苦，致使肯尼斯·裴因病住院。
Mr. Newman is the seventh American known to have been detained in the North since 2009. The others — with the exception of Mr. Bae and Mr. Newman, who were arrested during the tenure of the new leader, Kim Jong-un — were released or deported.
纽曼是自2009年以来已知被朝鲜逮捕的第七名美国人。肯尼斯·裴与纽曼都是在新任领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)执政期间被捕的，其他人都已获释，或被驱逐出境。
Twice recently, it appeared that Mr. Bae might be freed.
最近，肯尼斯·裴两次看到了获释的机会。
In August, a United States special envoy for North Korean human rights, Robert King, was scheduled to travel to Pyongyang to secure his release. But at the last minute, North Korea canceled the trip, which some Western analysts interpreted as evidence of power plays within the inner circle around Mr. Kim.
美国的朝鲜人权问题特使罗伯特·金(Robert King)原定于在今年8月前往平壤争取肯尼斯·裴获释，但朝鲜方面在最后时刻取消了这个行程。一些西方分析人士将此举视作金正恩核心集团玩弄权术的证据。
In October, Mr. Bae’s mother, Myunghee Bae, was permitted to visit him at a hospital in Pyongyang. She left North Korea without him.
10月，肯尼斯·裴的母亲裴明熙(Myunghee Bae)获准去平壤的一家医院看望他。然而，她离开朝鲜时没能带上肯尼斯·裴。