BERLIN — An 88-year-old former member of an SS armored division that slaughtered 642 villagers in France in 1944 was charged with 25 counts of murder on Wednesday in Cologne, while a German court in another city dropped the case against a 92-year-old former SS member charged with killing a Dutch resistance fighter during World War II.
柏林——1944年，党卫军的一个装甲师在法国屠杀了642名村民。本周三，这个装甲师一名现年88岁的前成员在科隆被控25项谋杀罪名。与此同时，另一座德国城市的法院宣布不再继续受理针对一名92岁的前党卫军成员的案件。此人之前被控在二战期间杀害一名荷兰武装抵抗人士。
The state court in Cologne said that the 88-year-old, identified only as Werner C. — in keeping with German privacy laws — faced 25 charges of murder and hundreds of counts of accessory to murder in connection with the massacre in Oradour-sur-Glane, a French village about 15 miles northwest of Limoges, in June 1944. The killings, which took place four days after the D-Day landings that eventually led to the Nazis’ defeat, were in reprisal for the kidnapping of a single German soldier by the local French Resistance.
设在科隆的州法院称，这个化名维尔纳·C (Werner C.)——为了遵守德国的隐私法规——的88岁老人面临25项谋杀及数百项谋杀从犯的指控，涉及的大屠杀发生于1944年6月，地点在法国利摩日西北约15英里（约合24公里）的村庄：格拉讷河畔的奥拉杜尔。屠杀发生在最终导致纳粹倒台的诺曼底登陆的四天后，目的是为了报复当地法国抵抗力量绑架了一名德军士兵。
The case was apparently a result of a poster campaign in Germany last year by the Simon Wiesenthal Center that encouraged Germans to come forward if they suspected that older people had links to Nazi crimes. The first wave of posters in Berlin, Cologne and Hamburg led to information about four people being passed to the German authorities, according to Efraim Zuroff, director of the Israeli office of the center, which tracks Nazi war crimes and their perpetrators. One of those cases concerned the massacre at Oradour-sur-Glane, Mr. Zuroff said in November.
本案似乎是西蒙·维森塔尔中心(Simon Wiesenthal Center)去年推出的海报宣传活动的成果。该活动鼓励德国人举报与纳粹罪行有关的老年嫌疑人。西蒙·维森塔尔中心致力于追查纳粹战争罪行及罪犯，其以色列办公室主任拉伊姆·苏罗夫(Efraim Zuroff)称，张贴在柏林、科隆和汉堡的首轮海报带来的线索导致四人被移交给德国当局。苏罗夫去年11月曾表示，其中一个案件涉及发生在格拉讷河畔奥拉杜尔的大屠杀。
A second campaign, in eight more German cities, was introduced in late November.
第二轮宣传覆盖了另外八座德国城市，于去年11月底推出。
Rainer Pohlen, a lawyer for the suspect charged in Cologne, maintained his client’s innocence but said in a telephone interview: “What the Simon Wiesenthal Center did certainly had an effect. I do believe that the German legal system looked the other way for decades after World War II. Much was swept under the rug.”
科隆案嫌疑人的律师赖纳·波伦(Rainer Pohlen)坚称自己的客户无辜。不过，他接受电话采访时承认：“西蒙·维森塔尔中心的所作所为当然产生了一定的影响。我的确认为，二战后的几十年里，德国司法系统对某些问题有所回避。很多事情被扫到了地毯下面。”
By contrast, Mr. Pohlen said, in the last six to eight years the authorities have taken a very broad view of Nazi crimes, “which means you don’t only have the decision makers or perpetrators or whatever, but they’re taking everyone they can get their hands on.”
波伦表示，相比之下，当局在过去六到八年对纳粹罪行采取了非常宽泛的定义，“这就意味着不仅牵涉到决策人和罪犯之类的，而是对每个能抓到的人都采取行动。”
He was skeptical of that approach. “I doubt that it is justified,” Mr. Pohlen said. “That people are being brought to justice who were still juvenile at the time, who were very young and probably not even mature and developed enough to stand up for themselves. There’s something weird about that. That’s not how you reconcile anything.”
他对这种方式持保留意见。“我怀疑这是否正当，”波伦说。“被绳之以法的那些人当时还未成年，非常年轻，很可能还不成熟，尚未成长到可以自己做主的地步。这样的做法有点奇怪，这不是化解恩怨的方式。”
Also on Wednesday, a court in Hagen, a city in northwest Germany, dropped the case against a Dutch-born man, Siert Bruins, 92, now a German citizen, because it said it could not prove the charge of murder. The court said there had been enough evidence to convict Mr. Bruins of manslaughter, The Associated Press reported, citing a court spokesman, Jan Schulte.
同样在周三，德国西北部城市哈根的法院宣布，不再继续受理针对荷兰出生的92岁德国公民泽尔特·布鲁因斯(Siert Bruins)的案件，理由是不能证明他的谋杀罪名成立。美联社(The Associated Press)援引法院发言人扬·舒尔特(Jan Schulte)的话报道称，该院表示，之前有足够的证据来裁定布鲁因斯犯有过失杀人罪。
While there is no statute of limitation on the charge of murder, the witnesses needed to prove the case against Mr. Bruins are no longer alive, Mr. Schulte was quoted as saying.
文中称，舒尔特表示，尽管谋杀指控没有诉讼时效，但证明布鲁因斯有罪所需的目击证人均已不在人世。