ROUND POND, Me. — Out here in the woods, at the end of not one but two dirt roads, in a shack equipped with a picture of the Dalai Lama, a high-speed data line and a copy of Thoreau’s “Civil Disobedience,” Amazon’s dream of dominating the publishing world has run into some trouble.
缅因州，圆池——森林中有两条，而不是一条土路，通向尽头一座小屋，里面有达赖喇嘛的照片，高速网线和一本梭罗(Thoreau)的《公民不服从》(Civil Disobedience)，就是在这里，亚马逊一统出版界的梦想遇到了一点麻烦。
Douglas Preston, who summers in this coastal hamlet, is a best-selling writer — or was, until Amazon decided to discourage readers from buying books from his publisher, Hachette, as a way of pressuring it into giving Amazon a better deal on e-books. So he wrote an open letter to his readers asking them to contact Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, demanding that Amazon stop using writers as hostages in its negotiations.
道格拉斯·普莱斯顿(Douglas Preston)正在这座沿海村庄避暑，他是一位畅销书作家，或者说，曾经是一位畅销书作家，因为亚马逊决定阻挠读者从他的出版社阿歇特(Hachette)买书，迫使他在同亚马逊谈判出售电子书条款时进行让步。所以他给自己的读者们写了一封公开信，请他们和亚马逊的最高管理者杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)联系，要求亚马逊停止使用作家作为谈判中的人质。
The letter, composed in the shack, spread through the literary community. As of earlier this week 909 writers had signed on, including household names like John Grisham and Stephen King. It is scheduled to run as a full-page ad in The New York Times this Sunday.
这封信正是在这座小屋中起草的，很快传遍了文学世界。这星期早些时候，已经有909个作家在上面签名，包括约翰·格里森姆(John Grisham)和史蒂芬·金(Stephen King)等家喻户晓的名字。本周日它将以整版广告的形式刊登在《纽约时报》上。
Amazon, unsettled by the actions of a group that used to be among its biggest fans, is responding by attacking Mr. Preston, calling the 58-year-old thriller writer “entitled” and “an opportunist,” while simultaneously trying to woo him and his fellow dissenters into silence.
亚马逊对这个曾是自己最大粉丝的群体所采取的行动感到不安，它的回应是抨击普莱斯顿，说这位58岁的惊悚小说作家“有这个权利”，以及“是个机会主义者”，同时又恳求他和其他异议者沉默下来。
Mr. Preston is unswayed.
普莱斯顿没有动摇。
“Jeff Bezos used books as the cutting edge to help sell everything from computer cables to lawn mowers, and what a good idea that was,” he said. “Now Amazon has turned its back on us. Don’t they value us more than that? Don’t they feel any loyalty? That’s why authors are mad.”
“杰夫·贝佐斯使用书籍作为突破口，贩卖从电脑连接线到草坪修剪机在内的一切东西，这个主意真不错，”他说，“如今亚马逊又背叛了我们。他们难道不应该更尊重我们吗？他们有忠诚心吗？所以作家们都很恼火。”
This latest uproar in Amazon’s three-month public battle with Hachette comes at a vulnerable moment for the Internet giant, which is rapidly transforming itself into an empire that not only sells culture but creates it, too.
亚马逊与阿歇特的战役已经延续了三个月，最新的骚动正发生在它非常脆弱的时刻——这个互联网巨人正致力于将自己改造成一个全新的帝国，使其不仅是文化的贩卖者，而且是文化的缔造者。
Amazon does not want to be seen as hostile to content creators, one of the four groups it says on its investor relations web page it is expressly set up to serve. But it also has to price their creations cheaply enough to draw hordes of consumers, while at the same time making enough of a profit to satisfy investors.
亚马逊不想被创作者们视为有敌意，在网站的投资者关系页面上，亚马逊声称“创作者”是他们要服务的四个人群之一。但它必须给他们的作品标上足够便宜的价格，以此吸引大群消费者，与此同时还要赚取足够利润，令投资者们满意。
It is a complicated balancing act. Some argue it is impossible. Amazon just surprised Wall Street by saying it may lose more than $800 million this quarter, potentially wiping out its profits for the last three years, partly because creating video content is expensive. The prospect of this unexpected loss has raised questions about whether Amazon’s money-losing ways are finally catching up with it — and whether that is the real reason it is making new demands on publishers like Hachette.
这种平衡很难保持。有些人认为根本是不可能的。亚马逊声称自己本季度损失了超过八亿美元，可能相当于它过去三年间的利润，部分原因是由于创作视频内容非常昂贵，这令华尔街感到大为震惊。这个出人意料的损失前景令人们质疑：亚马逊烧钱的方式是否最终会令它尝到苦果——是否正是由于这个原因，它才对阿歇特这样的出版社提出了新要求。
Amazon has been forced by the controversy to shed its longtime practice of refusing to comment on anything. Asked about the writers’ rebellion, it issued a statement that put the focus back on Hachette, bringing up the Justice Department’s antitrust lawsuit against Hachette and other publishers in 2012: “First, Hachette was willing to break the law to get higher e-book prices, and now they’re determined to keep their own authors in the line of fire in order to achieve that same end. Amazon has made three separate proposals to take authors out of the middle, all of which Hachette has quickly dismissed.”
受到这些讨论的影响，亚马逊不得不摒弃长期以来拒绝就任何事做出评论的原则。被问及作家们的反抗后，它发布了一份声明，把焦点引向阿歇特，提起司法部2012年对阿歇特和其他出版公司进行的反垄断诉讼：“首先，阿歇特想通过违反法律的方式获取更高的电子书价格，现在他们又决心让自己的作家站在风口浪尖，以便获取同样的结果。亚马逊曾提出三份不同的建议，令作家们可以置身事外，它们都很快被阿歇特否决了。”
Mr. Preston pointed out it was Amazon that put the authors in the line of fire in the first place. Russell Grandinetti, Amazon’s vice president for e-books, has called Mr. Preston twice in recent weeks, trying to get him to endorse the company’s proposals to settle the dispute, as well as to pipe down. The most recent proposal would have Amazon selling Hachette books again, but with Hachette and Amazon giving their proceeds to charity.
普莱斯顿指出，是亚马逊先把作家们推上风口浪尖的。亚马逊电子书部门的副总裁罗素·格兰迪尼蒂(Russell Grandinetti)最近几个星期给普莱斯顿打过两次电话，想让他为公司的提议背书，从而解决这个争议，也不要再就这个问题发声了。最近的方案是，亚马逊重新开始销售阿歇特公司的书，但阿歇特和亚马逊把收益捐给慈善事业。
No thanks, Mr. Preston said. A proposal that weakens Hachette by cutting its profits was not in the interests of Hachette’s authors. But he took the opportunity to ask Mr. Grandinetti why Amazon was squeezing the writers in the first place.
谢谢，不行，普莱斯顿说。这个建议会缩减阿歇特公司的利润，使它某受损失，对它旗下的作家也没有好处。但他抓住这个机会问格兰迪尼蒂，亚马逊一开始为什么要压榨作家们。
His response, according to Mr. Preston: “This was the only leverage we had.” Amazon declined to comment.
普莱斯顿说，格兰迪尼蒂的回答是：“我们也没有其他办法了。”亚马逊拒绝对此作出评价。
“It’s like talking to a 5-year-old,” Mr. Preston said. “ ‘She made me hit her!’ No one is making Amazon do anything.”
“这就像跟五岁小孩说话一样，”普莱斯顿说，“‘是她让我打她的！’没人让亚马逊这么做。”
No one is making Mr. Preston do anything, either. He dismisses Amazon’s suggestions that he is a “human shield” for Hachette, one of the Big 5 publishers in the United States. He and the other writers say they are acting independently. Most, in any case, are not published by Hachette.
同样，也没有人让普莱斯顿做任何事。他驳斥亚马逊说自己是阿歇特的“人肉盾牌”这个说法。阿歇特是美国五大出版社之一。普莱斯顿和其他作家们说，他们的行为是独立的。其中大多数人并不在阿歇特出书。
Mr. Preston is not sure how he has found himself in charge of a group calling itself Authors United. “I don’t like fighting,” he said. “I’m a wimp. When the bullies in seventh grade said they would meet me in the parking lot after school, I made sure I was nowhere near it.”
普莱斯顿不知道自己什么时候就成了这个名叫“作家联合会”的机构的领导。“我不喜欢争斗，”他说，“我是个懦弱的人，要是七年级的恶棍说他们想在学校后面的停车场见我，我肯定会逃得远远的。”
Other writers who signed the letter include Robert A. Caro, Junot Díaz, Malcolm Gladwell, Lemony Snicket (the pen name of Daniel Handler), Michael Chabon, Michael Lewis, Jon Krakauer, Scott Turow, George Saunders, Sebastian Junger, Philip Pullman and Nora Roberts.
其他在公开信上签名的作家还有罗伯特·A·卡罗(Robert A. Caro)、朱诺·迪亚斯(Junot Díaz)、马尔科姆·格拉德威尔(Malcolm Gladwell)、笔名是丹尼尔·汉德勒(Daniel Handler)的莱莫尼·斯尼克特(Lemony Snicket)、迈克尔·查邦(Michael Chabon)、迈克尔·刘易斯(Michael Lewis)、乔恩·克拉考尔(Jon Krakauer)、斯科特·图罗(Scott Turow)、乔治·桑德斯(George Saunders)、塞巴斯蒂安·荣格(Sebastian Junger)、菲利普·普尔曼(Philip Pullman)和诺拉·罗伯茨(Nora Roberts)。
“We feel strongly that no bookseller should block the sale of books or otherwise prevent or discourage customers from ordering or receiving the books they want,” the letter states.
“我们强烈认为，书商不应当阻滞图书销售的渠道，不应阻止或阻挠消费者订购或获取他们想要的书籍，”公开信写道。
Some writers wholeheartedly supported the letter but were afraid to sign, Mr. Preston said. A few signed it and then backed out, citing the same reason. The Times ad, which cost $104,000, was paid for by a handful of the more successful writers.
有些作家全心全意支持这封信，但也有些人不敢签名，普莱斯顿说。出于同样原因，有些人签名后又撤销了。《纽约时报》上的广告要花费10.4万美元，是由部分较为成功的作家支付。
Mr. Preston’s longtime writing partner, Lincoln Child, is among those with qualms.
普莱斯顿的长期写作伙伴林肯·柴尔德(Lincoln Child)是心怀疑虑者之一。
“I am very apprehensive,” Mr. Child said. “Not all David and Goliath stories end happily for the little guy. But I think Doug did the right thing.”
“我非常担忧，”柴尔德说，“并不是所有大卫和歌利亚式的故事都以小人物的胜利告终。但我觉得道格在做正确的事。”
Amazon supporters point to a rival petition on Change.org. It is a rambling love song to the retailer. Signers sometimes append invective decrying the New York publishers for having the audacity to reject novels. “There is something wrong with a system that picks those who use their elitist ideas of art to choose who is published,” reads a comment.
亚马逊的支持者们在Change.org请愿网站上贴出了一份与之竞争的请愿书。它是唱给亚马逊的一首杂乱无章的情歌。有的签名者还厉声谴责纽约的出版社们，说他们竟然拒绝自己的小说。“一个系统如果只让那些具有精英艺术观的人来决定谁的书应当出版，那么这个系统肯定有问题，”一个评论说。
The petition has 7,650 signatures. By comparison, a 2012 Change.org petition calling on Amazon to ban the sale of whale and dolphin meat drew over 200,000 signatures.
这份请愿书获得了7650个签名。与之相比，2012年，Change.org网站号召亚马逊禁止销售鲸鱼肉和海豚肉的请愿获得了20万个签名。
Mr. Preston is not one of those writers who checks his Amazon ranking on a regular basis, or even totes up his sales. He would rather be writing. But he recently thought he should get some numbers from Hachette. They came in the other morning, and they seemed worth sharing with his wife, Christine.
普莱斯顿并不是那种经常检查自己在亚马逊上排名的作家，甚至也不关心自己的销量。他更愿意写作。但最近他觉得自己应该从阿歇特公司得到一些数据了。某天早晨他收到了这些数据，觉得应该让妻子克里斯汀(Christine)也看看。
About half his book sales used to come from Amazon. But since the retailer started discouraging orders, his paperback sales are down 61 percent and his e-book sales are down 62 percent. His last novel, written with Mr. Child and published by Hachette in November, was “White Fire.” A week before publication, 25,000 Amazon customers had ordered a copy.
他的书有半数都是通过亚马逊卖出去的，但自从亚马逊开始不鼓励顾客购买阿歇特公司的书，他的平装书销量就降低了61%，电子书销量下降了62%。他的上一本小说是与柴尔德合写，名为《白色火焰》(White Fire)，去年11月由阿歇特公司发行。出版前一周就有2.5万名亚马逊用户预订。
Their new novel, “The Lost Island,” came out Tuesday. It had only a few thousand pre-orders, all made before Amazon lowered the boom on Hachette and stopped selling forthcoming Hachette books.
而两人的最新小说《失落的岛屿》(The Lost Island)于本周二出版。只有几千名预订者，都是在亚马逊试图给阿歇特公司的书压价并停止销售阿歇特公司新书之前的事。
Mrs. Preston, a photographer, studied the bleak sheet.
普莱斯顿的妻子是一名摄影师，她研究了这份惨淡的数据。
“It’s gotten personal,” she said. “I knew you were going to take a hit, but I had no idea it would be like this.”
“这变成了个人化的事，”她说，“我知道你想主动出击，但我不知道事情会变成这样。”