LUENEBURG, Germany — Seven decades after the liberation of Auschwitz, a 93-year-old former SS member at the Nazi death camp shuffled into a German court on Tuesday to answer charges of complicity in the murder of 300,000 mostly Hungarian Jews in two months during the summer of 1944.
德国吕内堡——奥斯威辛集中营解放后70年后，本周二，一名现年93岁，曾在该集中营工作的前党卫军成员慢吞吞地走进德国一家法院，回应共谋谋杀的指控。他被指控在1944年夏的两个月内，在这所纳粹死亡集中营里参与共谋，杀死了30万人，其中大多是匈牙利犹太人。
With Holocaust survivors looking on, the former SS soldier, Oskar Gröning, certainly one of the last Nazis called to account for his deeds, read a chilling but startlingly clear account of his life. It focused on the autumn of 1942 to the autumn of 1944, when he served in the SS at Auschwitz-Birkenau.
这个前党卫军士兵名为奥斯卡·格罗宁(Oskar Groening)，无疑是最后一批被要求解释自己的行为的纳粹之一。当着大屠杀幸存者的面，他念出了一份令人心寒，但极为清楚的交代书，讲述了自己的经历。内容主要涉及从1942年秋到1944年秋这段时间，当时他在奥斯威辛-伯肯诺集中营的党卫军部队服役。
The tardiness of the case against Mr. Gröning, a widower who lives in this small town in northern Germany, did nothing to lessen the tension in the makeshift courtroom, normally an assembly hall. He and his accusers can expect to spend much of the next three months here, measuring the march of 20th-century history through the lives of Nazis and their victims.
格罗宁是个鳏夫，住在德国北部的吕内堡小镇上，这里的临时法庭设在一个从前常作为礼堂使用的场所里。案子虽然迟来了这么多年，但是并未减轻临时法庭里的紧张气氛。预计未来3个月中，他和原告将在这里度过很多时间，通过纳粹及其受害者的生活来衡量20世纪历史的步伐。
Unlike those tried decades ago, Mr. Gröning does not deny that he was at Auschwitz and that he saw terrible things. The case turns on whether he is not only morally, but also criminally, responsible for what happened there.
与几十年前的纳粹审判不同的是，格罗宁并不否认自己曾在奥斯威辛集中营工作，并且看到了可怕的事情。这个案件的关键是，他是否不仅在道义上，而且还在刑事法律上，对那里发生的事情负有责任。
After the state prosecutor, Jens Lehmann, read the charges, Mr. Gröning spoke for an hour, then turned to Judge Franz Kompisch and said: “It is beyond question that I am morally complicit. This moral guilt I acknowledge here, before the victims, with regret and humility.” He asked for forgiveness.
检察官延斯·莱曼(Jens Lehmann)宣读了起诉书之后，格罗宁讲了一个小时，然后转身对法官弗兰茨·科皮斯(Franz Kompisch)说：“从道德上说，我毫无疑问是个共谋者。在这里，我带着遗憾和羞耻，当着受害者的面，承认我在道德上有罪。”他请求宽恕。
“As concerns guilt before the law,” he told the judge, “you must decide.”
“至于我是否在法律上有罪，”他告诉法官，“这得由你决定。”
His words riveted dozens of journalists, spectators, relatives of victims and some of the 65 plaintiffs who have joined state prosecutors in the case. After a break for lunch, the judge spent an hour questioning Mr. Gröning, who took his listeners back through decades to the rise and fall of Adolf Hitler.
他的话吸引了大家的注意力，这几十人中包括记者、观众、受害者亲属，以及和本案检察官合作的65个原告中的一部分人。午餐休息时间过后，法官花了一个小时来询问格罗宁。后者把听众带到了几十年前阿道夫·希特勒的兴衰沉浮上。
Mr. Gröning said he was a bank accountant who was conscrited in the fall of 1940 and volunteered for the SS, because it seemed “always to be out front” and came back “covered in glory” from the swift Nazi successes in Poland and France, sealing Hitler’s grip on Europe.
格罗宁说，自己曾是银行会计，在1940年秋应征入伍，并主动加入了党卫军，因为觉得党卫军似乎“一直都很风光”，他在打击波兰和法国的闪电战之后“凯旋”；而希特勒正是通过这些战役牢牢控制了欧洲。
The defendant, who was lucid almost throughout, said his first doubts about Hitler arose with the invasion of the Soviet Union in the summer of 1941, which Mr. Gröning said he considered unwise, given Russian tenacity and might.
被告的神志几乎一直都很清醒，他说自己第一次对希特勒产生怀疑，是他在1941年夏天入侵苏联的时候。格罗宁说，他认为这很不明智，因为俄罗斯人既坚韧又强悍。
He said that he was responsible for collecting cash belonging to arriving prisoners at Auschwitz, as state prosecutors have charged, but that he also witnessed atrocities.
他说，自己的工作是在新囚犯抵达奥斯威辛时，负责收取现金——正如检察官指控的那样，但他也目睹了一些暴行。
He suggested that doubts grew almost immediately upon his arrival at Auschwitz, when drunken guards talked of “getting rid of” prisoners.
他表示，自己一抵达奥斯威辛集中营，几乎立即就产生了怀疑，因为他听到喝醉的看守谈论“除掉”囚犯的事情。
The atrocities he witnessed, he said, included one night in December 1942, when he was rousted from bed to help hunt down fleeing prisoners. In the process, he told the court, he saw prisoners herded into a farmhouse and an SS superior tip gas out of a can into an opening. The screams of the prisoners inside “grew louder and more desperate, and after a short time became quieter and then stopped completely,” Mr. Gröning said.
他说自己亲眼目睹了一些暴行，其中包括1942年12月的一天晚上，他被从床上叫起来，帮助追捕逃犯。他在法庭上说，在这个过程中，他看到囚犯们被赶进一间农舍，他的一个党卫军长官把一个罐子里的毒气从农舍的开口处灌进去。里面囚犯的惨叫声“越来越响，越来越绝望，在很短的时间里又逐渐安静下来，然后完全没有了声音，”格罗宁说。
“That was the only time I saw a complete gassing,” he said, emphasizing, “I did not take part.”
“这是我唯一一次看见毒气施放的完整过程，”他强调道，“我没有参与。”
Reading his account with occasional guidance from his two lawyers, Mr. Gröning recalled minute details of his life in the SS, down to the imposing marble and wood carving in the hall where he and his comrades learned of their assignment to Auschwitz.
格罗宁在两名律师的偶尔指导下宣读自己的案件陈述时，回忆了自己党卫军生涯的一些微小细节，甚至包括一个大厅里壮观的大理石和木雕装饰，他和战友就是在这里获知自己被分配到奥斯威辛集中营执行任务的。
It was presented, he said, as “a duty that will demand more from you than the front” and that had to be kept secret, even from family, but was vital “to achieving the Final Solution” of eliminating Jews.
他说，当时这项任务被描述为“一种需要比前线付出更多的任务”，而且必须保密，连家人也不能透露，但是它对于“完成”消灭犹太人的“最终解决方案”(Final Solution)至关重要。
In November 1942, he recalled, a crying baby was found amid trash discarded by arriving prisoners. The baby had evidently been abandoned by its mother in hopes she would then be chosen for a work crew and not sent to the gas chamber. A fellow SS member, angered by the cries, beat the infant to death, Mr. Gröning said, adding that he complained to a superior but that no action was taken.
他回忆道，1942年11月，他们在抵达集中营的囚犯扔掉的垃圾里发现了一个啼哭的婴儿。很明显，这个婴儿是被她母亲故意抛弃的，孩子的母亲肯定希望她将来能被选去当工作人员，而不是被送去毒气室。格罗宁说，一名党卫军成员被婴儿的啼哭声惹怒，随后将她殴打致死。他还表示自己曾向一名长官报告，但无人采取行动。
Both the recollection of the gassing and the dead baby figured prominently in the two lengthy interviews Mr. Gröning gave a decade ago to the BBC and the newsmagazine Der Spiegel. The events notably occurred outside the period in 1944 for which he is being prosecuted.
10年前，格罗宁曾接受BBC和新闻杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)的采访。在这两次长时间的采访中，他对毒气施放和婴儿被殴打致死事件的回忆，都得到了突出展示。值得一提的是，这些事情都没有发生在1944年的一段特定时期——他正因为这段时期而受到起诉。
Mr. Gröning’s case not only revives searing questions about individual guilt for Nazi crimes but also highlights the decades of legal inaction over Auschwitz, where an estimated 1.1 million people were killed. About 6,500 members of the SS worked at the camp; only 49 have been convicted of war crimes.
格罗宁一案，不仅重新让人们对个人在纳粹罪行中应承担的罪责提出了强烈疑问，也突显了数十年来，法律对奥斯威辛的无所作为。当时共有大约110万人在这里罹难，有大概6500名党卫军成员在奥斯威辛集中营工作，只有49人被判犯有战争罪行。
Mr. Gröning first started talking about Auschwitz with associates and his two sons after a fellow collector at his stamp club fiercely denied the Holocaust. His case also illustrates how perceptions of the Holocaust and Nazi crimes have shifted over the decades. In 1945, Lüneburg, then in the British Allied sector of Germany, was the site of one of the first trials of former guards at the Bergen-Belsen and Auschwitz-Birkenau camps. Eleven of those on trial were executed in December of that year.
在格罗宁参加的集邮俱乐部的一名集邮者极力否认大屠杀后，格罗宁才首次开始与同事和两个儿子谈论奥斯威辛集中营。他的案件也表明，数十年来，人们对大屠杀和纳粹罪行的观念发生了何种转变。1945年，针对贝尔根-贝尔森(Bergen-Belsen)和奥斯威辛-比克瑙集中营前守卫的最早的审判，有一宗就是在当时属于英占德国的吕内堡举行的。受审者中有11人都在当年12月被处决。
But retribution swiftly gave way to the need to rebuild Germany. The crimes committed at Auschwitz were at the heart of four big trials in Frankfurt in the 1960s. Then, for decades, little happened as German prosecutors insisted that evidence had to tie those accused of war crimes directly to atrocities.
但德国需要重建，惩罚一事很快就被搁置。奥斯威辛集中营犯下的罪行，成为上世纪60年代法兰克福四大审判的核心问题。之后数十年间，德国检方坚持认为需要有证据证明，被控以战争罪的人员曾直接参与暴行，因此事情没有取得什么进展。
Mr. Gröning’s prosecution became possible only through the trial of John Demjanjuk, a Ukrainian who immigrated to the United States after World War II. He was eventually sentenced in 2011 in Munich to five years in prison for his involvement in the killing of 28,000 Jews at the Sobibor camp in Nazi-occupied Poland. He died in 2012 before his appeal could be heard.
约翰·德米扬鲁克(John Demjanjuk)的受审，使得起诉格罗宁成为可能。乌克兰人德米扬鲁克在二战后移民美国，他最终因为在纳粹占领期间，在波兰境内的索比布尔集中营参与杀害2.8万名犹太人，于2011年在慕尼黑被判处五年徒刑。他已于2012年去世，当时法院尚未受理他的上诉请求。
For decades before that ruling, prosecutors in Germany had declined to charge anyone with complicity in the Holocaust.
在法院做出上述裁决前的几十年间，德国检察官拒绝对任何人提起参与犹太人大屠杀的共谋指控。
One of the people who helped pioneer the shift in German legal thinking was Thomas Walther, a former judge who went to work in 2006 for Germany’s central office for tracking Nazi war crimes, based in Ludwigsburg.
前法官托马斯·沃瑟(Thomas Walther)是帮助德国在法律方面扭转意识的人士之一。2006年沃瑟开始为追查纳粹战争罪行的德国核心机构工作，这个机构位于吕内堡。
He pursued the Demjanjuk case and is considered instrumental in the subsequent trial and sentencing of Mr. Demjanjuk, a former autoworker in Ohio.
他推动了德米扬鲁克一案，并被视为在后来德米扬鲁克的受审和案件宣判过程中起到关键作用。后者是曾经居住在美国俄亥俄州的一名汽车工人。
In Lüneberg, Mr. Walther is the leading lawyer of 11 who are representing the 65 co-plaintiffs, some of whom arrived in recent days, ready to testify.
在吕内堡，沃瑟是一个11人律师团的主要负责人，代表着65位原告。其中一些原告近日抵达此地，准备在法庭上作证。
Among them is Eva Fahidi, 90, of Budapest, who lost 49 relatives in the Holocaust, including her mother and sister, who were dispatched to the gas chambers upon arrival at Auschwitz.
其中一位是90高龄的伊娃·法希迪(Eva Fahidi), 她来自布达佩斯，在大屠杀中失去了49位亲属，包括她的母亲和姐妹。她们刚到奥斯维辛就被送往毒气室杀害。
She was not satisfied with Mr. Gröning’s testimony and request for forgiveness. “After 70 years, he still behaves this way and is not capable of saying, ‘I am a sinner,’” Ms. Fahidi said.
她对格罗宁的证词和要求被宽恕感到不满。法希迪说：“70年过去了，他仍然冥顽不化，而不会说出‘我是个罪人’这样的话。”
Another survivor, Eva Kor, 81, of Terre Haute, Ind., was also adamant that “feeling guilty doesn’t accomplish anything.” While Ms. Fahidi said she longed for a formal judgment on Mr. Gröning, Ms. Kor argued that he should go out to schools and show “how much Nazism destroyed everybody’s lives.”
另一位大屠杀幸存者、印第安纳州81岁的伊娃·柯尔(Eva Kor)也坚称，“感到愧疚无助于是”。与法希迪说期待格罗宁受到正式审判不同，柯尔认为他应该去到学校，现身说法“纳粹主义是如何摧毁了每一个人的生活”。
Markus Goldbach, Ms. Kor’s lawyer, said he thought that the accused had gone further than ever before with his plea for forgiveness. “It is a surprise,” he said, and may throw a fresh light on Mr. Gröning’s claim that he made three requests to be transferred out of Auschwitz.
柯尔的律师马库斯·哥德巴赫(Markus Goldbach)认为格罗宁要求被宽恕是比之前的一大进步。他说，“这令人意外”，可能会令人重新审视他之前所述，自己曾三次要求被调出奥斯维辛。
These perspectives will most likely be debated throughout the trial, which coincides with modern atrocities in the Middle East and the commemoration of the Armenian genocide 100 years ago.
在庭审过程中，所有这些方面都会受到激辩。庭审发生的当下，正值中东地区爆发战争，以及纪念100年前的亚美尼亚种族灭绝。