OXFORD, MISS. 
密西西比，牛津(OXFORD, MISS.)
WHAT: An antebellum cottage with three bedrooms and three bathrooms
房源：一座战前单幢住宅，带三卧三卫
HOW MUCH: $995,000
房价：99.5万美元（约合人民币653万元）
SIZE: 2,580 square feet
面积：2580平方英尺（约合240平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $386
单位面积房价：每平方英尺386美元（每平方米约合人民币2.8156万元）
SETTING: Oxford, a city of about 20,000 people, is home to the University of Mississippi. This house is in a quiet, historic section of town lined with antebellum houses, around the corner from William Faulkner’s estate, Rowan Oak.
周边环境：牛津是一座人口约2万的城市，是密西西比大学(University of Mississippi)所在地。此房源坐落在城里一个历史悠久的、宁静的地区，那里战前住宅林立，拐角处就是威廉•福克纳(William Faulkner)的故居——花楸橡树(Rowan Oak)。
The city’s square, built around the Lafayette County Courthouse, is about six blocks away. Here, you’ll find places like Square Books (a compound spread over three historic buildings), City Grocery (serving a Southern menu by John Currence, a James Beard Award winner) and Neilson’s Department Store, in operation since 1839. The Ole Miss campus is just a few blocks off the square. Memphis is an hour and a half away.
城市广场约在六个街区以外，它围绕拉斐特县法院(Lafayette County Courthouse)而建。在这里，你会找到一些有意思的去处，比如广场书店（它是一个建筑群，包含三座历史建筑）、City Grocery餐厅（它供应南方菜肴，主厨约翰•科伦斯[John Currence]是詹姆斯•比尔德奖[James Beard Award]得主）、尼尔森百货（Neilson’s Department Store，其历史可用追溯到1839年）。密西西比大学校园距离广场只有几个街区。孟菲斯(Memphis)距此一个半小时路程。
INDOORS: The single-story wood-frame house was built in 1854 and renovated and expanded around 2003. Original features include heart pine floors, mantels and beveled glass in the living and dining rooms. Newer features were done to period, such as beadboard bathroom walls and wood floors taken from an old New England barn.
室内装潢：这座单层木结构住宅建于1854年，改扩建于2003年左右。特色元素包括客厅和餐厅的松木心材地板、壁炉架和斜边玻璃。较新的特色元素走的是仿古路线，比如浴室护墙板以及取材于新英格兰一座旧谷仓的木地板。
A brick walkway leads from the street to the original front porch, now complemented by a wraparound porch at the other end of the house, on the addition. There are a formal living room, a dining room with a fireplace, a TV room and an office. Ceilings are 10 feet tall, and many rooms have windows that run nearly floor to ceiling.
一条铺有地砖的走道从街头延伸到原有的前廊，现在房屋另一端有一座环绕式门廊与之呼应，这座门廊设在房屋的增建部分。屋内有一间正式的客厅，一间带壁炉的餐厅，一间电视室和一间办公室。天花板高10英尺（约合3米），许多房间的窗户几乎相当于落地窗。
The updated kitchen is in a long room with a pitched ceiling and beadboard walls. It opens to the back porch.
翻新后的厨房是一个较长的房间，设有斜顶天花板，墙壁带有护墙板。厨房通往后廊。
Two bedrooms are at the front of the house, while the master bedroom, part of an addition, is in the back, opening to a large screened porch through French doors. The office opens to the screened porch, too.
有两间卧室设在房屋前端。主卧室设在后端，位于房屋的增建部分，它经由一扇法式对开门，通往一座带遮蔽的门廊。办公室也通往这座带遮蔽的门廊。
OUTDOOR SPACE: There are a patio and a swimming pool. The property is about four-tenths of an acre, landscaped with azaleas and native plants.
户外空间：户外有一个露台和一座游泳池。此房产占地约十分之四英亩（约合0.16公顷），栽有杜鹃和原生植物，景观如画。
TAXES: Approximately $7,015 a year
税：每年约7015美元（约合人民币4.6055万元）
CONTACT: Anne Fair, Marchbanks Real Estate, (662) 816-7606; marchbanksrealestate.com
联系方式：Anne Fair, Marchbanks Real Estate, (662) 816-7606; marchbanksrealestate.com
•
PATAGONIA, ARIZ.
亚利桑那，巴塔哥尼亚(PATAGONIA, ARIZ.)
WHAT: A Southwestern-style contemporary with four bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms, on 80 acres
房源：一座西南风格的现代住宅，带有四卧和两间半浴室，占地80英亩（约合32公顷）
HOW MUCH: $950,000
房价：95万美元（约合人民币624万元）
SIZE: 4,524 square feet
面积：4524平方英尺（约合420平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $210
单位面积房价：每平方英尺210美元（每平方米约合人民币1.5322万元）
SETTING: Patagonia is a town of about 900 people an hour south of Tucson, framed by mountains, national forest and conservation land. Greener than some of the surrounding Sonoran Desert, much of the area is rolling hills and oak forest. This house is off a rural road neighboring a couple of horse ranches, about six miles from Patagonia’s small town center and six miles from that of Sonoita, which has a strong — and long — history as a ranching community.
周边环境：巴塔哥尼亚是一座城镇，人口约900人，位于图森(Tucson)以南一小时路程的地方，周围环绕着山峦、国家森林公园和保育地。这里大多是连绵起伏的丘陵和橡树林，比周边索诺兰沙漠(Sonoran)的部分地区绿意更浓。此房源位于一条乡村公路旁，毗邻几家马牧场，距离巴塔哥尼亚和索诺依塔(Sonoita)的小镇中心约六英里。索诺依塔作为一个牧场社区，拥有悠久、浓厚的历史氛围。
INDOORS: The two-story 1995 house was designed by William Cook, a fellow at the American Institute of Architects who taught at the University of Arizona and worked throughout the region. A mix of Southwestern and contemporary design, the house has an open floor plan, Saltillo tile floors, wood-paneled ceilings and plenty of nichos or alcoves for display. Construction is frame and stucco, with walls of floor-to-ceiling Pella windows facing the hills in nearly every room.
室内装潢：这座两层住宅建于1995年，设计师为美国建筑师学会(American Institute of Architects)会员威廉•库克(William Cook)，曾在亚利桑那大学(University of Arizona)任教，在整个地区执业。此住宅融合了西南与现代的设计风格，带有开放式格局，采用萨尔蒂约(Saltillo)面砖地板、木镶板吊顶和大量装饰性壁龛。建筑采用框架结构，灰泥建材，几乎每个房间都设有面朝群山的Pella落地窗。
The living and dining areas are open to each other, with a two-sided fireplace between them. The room opens through walls of sliding glass doors both to a deck and to a generously sized sunroom. The kitchen has a backsplash and an island of tile.
起居区和用餐区彼此相通，中间夹着一座双面壁炉。此房间经由滑动玻璃门，通向一座露台和一间宽敞的日光室。厨房铺有挡板，设有岛台，岛台贴有面砖。
Two bedrooms are at one end of the house; two are at the other. The master suite has a walk-in closet with built-ins and an en-suite bathroom with dual sinks. The other bedroom on this side of the house opens to a private deck. There is also a studio with extra storage and sliding glass doors onto yet another patio. The bathrooms are partially walled with Mexican tile. There is an attached garage.
有两间卧室设在房屋的一侧；其余两间设在另一侧。主卧套房设有步入式衣橱，衣橱带有嵌入式衣柜，配套浴室带有两个盥洗池。同侧的另一间卧室通往一座私人露台。屋内还有一间工作室，它带有额外的储物空间，经由滑动玻璃门通向另一个露台。浴室设有半墙，贴有墨西哥面砖。房屋带车库。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The acreage is rolling and blanketed with oak trees. Behind the house, there’s a lap pool. On one of the hills, there’s a roofed bench, where the owners do their bird-watching.
户外空间：户外丘陵起伏，种着橡树。房子后面，有一座小游泳池。一座小山上设有一张带棚顶的长椅，业主会在那里观鸟。
TAXES: Approximately $10,000 a year
税：每年约1万美元（约合人民币6.6万元）
CONTACT: Patty Umphres, Long Realty, a Berkshire Hathaway Affiliate, (520) 272-9144; homesintucsonarizona.com
联系方式：Patty Umphres, Long Realty, a Berkshire Hathaway Affiliate, (520) 272-9144; homesintucsonarizona.com
•
HOUSTON
休斯顿(HOUSTON)
WHAT: A 1920s bungalow with two bedrooms and one bathroom, with a one-bedroom, one-bath apartment
房源：一座单层住宅，建于20世纪20年代，带有两卧和一卫，附带一套一室一卫公寓
HOW MUCH: $995,000
房价：99.5万美元（约合人民币653万元）
SIZE: 1,672 square feet in the main house and about 600 square feet in the apartment
面积：主屋1672平方英尺（约合155平方米），公寓约600平方英尺（约合56平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $438
单位面积房价：每平方英尺438美元（每平方米约合人民币3.1956万元）
SETTING: This house is on a large corner lot in the Heights, a collection of small, older neighborhoods in central Houston. The area is a mix of residential blocks of early 20th-century bungalows and low-lying commercial strips lined with restaurants, cafes and mom-and-pop shops. There’s a 23-acre park with walking and biking trails a block from the house, along White Oak Bayou; the trails extend to downtown.
周边环境：此住宅地处一片面积较大的角落地带，位于高地(Heights)。高地位于休斯顿中心区，这里汇集了一些年代久远的小社区。该地区混杂着20世纪初的单层住宅区和楼层低矮的商业街，商业街边林立着餐馆、咖啡馆和夫妻店。距离此住宅一个街区之遥，有一座23英亩（约合9公顷）的公园，那里有步道和自行车道，濒临白橡河口(White Oak Bayou)；步道和自行车道一直延伸到中心区。
INDOORS: The house was built in the 1920s and updated over the past couple of years, during which time the apartment was added. Most walls in the main house were taken down to accommodate an interior design business, creating a bright, open space. The original white shiplap walls were retained, now paired with sisal flooring and blue-green molding and trim. Recessed lighting and built-in shelves were added throughout. The kitchen’s butcher block island is an early 20th-century antique, while appliances are stainless steel.
室内装潢：此住宅建于20世纪20年代，近几年内有所翻新，在此期间增建了公寓。主屋大部分墙壁都被拆除，以便将房屋改造成一家室内设计工作室，并构造出一个敞亮、开放的空间。原有的白色搭叠墙被保留了下来，现在搭配剑麻地板和蓝绿色装饰线。室内各处都增设了隐藏式照明和嵌入式搁架。厨房的砧板岛台是一件20世纪初的古董，而用具为不锈钢材质。
The apartment is a few feet from the main house. It has an open living area with a vaulted ceiling, a hand-painted checkerboard floor and a kitchen tucked into one corner. The bedroom’s dark hardwood floor and the bathroom’s claw-foot tub were both salvaged from older properties in the neighborhood.
公寓位于主屋几英尺之外。它的起居区采用开放式格局，设有拱形天花板，铺有手绘棋盘地板，厨房设在一角。卧室的深色硬木地板和浴室的爪足浴缸都是从本社区的老宅里回收利用的。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house is on a quarter-acre, with a yard and a back patio. There’s also a large storage shed.
户外空间：此房产占地四分之一英亩（约合0.1公顷），带有一座小院和一座后院，同时附带一个较大的储物间。
TAXES: Approximately $11,149 a year
税：每年约1.1149万美元（约合人民币7.3195万元）
CONTACT: Juli Moore, Greenwood King Properties, (713) 502-0775; greenwoodking.com
联系方式：Juli Moore, Greenwood King Properties, (713) 502-0775; greenwoodking.com