WASHINGTON — The morning after President Barack Obama stood before a national audience to announce a new campaign against Islamist terrorism in the Middle East, Jordan Thompson stood before television cameras in Lower Manhattan for a few moments and read a short list of names.
华盛顿——在总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)面对国民宣布对抗中东伊斯兰恐怖主义的新行动的次日清晨，乔丹·汤普森(Jordan Thompson)在曼哈顿下城，对着电视摄像机，宣读了一个短短的名单。
One of the names had profound meaning for Thompson: that of his uncle, Leon Heyward, a victim of the Sept. 11 attack on the twin towers. But the president's words had deep significance for Thompson, 17, as well. His uncle's life and death inspired Thompson to join the Marines, he said, adding that he would not be surprised if he is sent to Iraq once he finishes boot camp.
这些名字中的一个对汤普森意义重大：那是他的叔叔，莱昂·海沃德(Leon Heyward)，一位9·11双子座恐怖袭击的遇害者。但总统的发言对17岁的汤普森也具有深远的意义。叔叔的生平和死亡促使汤普森加入海军陆战队，他说，如果他完成新兵训练后被派遣到伊拉克，他不会觉得惊讶。
In some respects, the commemorations Thursday of the 13th anniversary of the terrorist attacks followed familiar scripts.
在一些方面，周四对那次恐怖袭击13周年的纪念活动遵循着惯例。
At 8:46 a.m., the time the first plane struck the north tower on Sept. 11, 2001, there was a moment of silence. In Washington, Obama, joined by his wife and Vice President Joe Biden, stood on the White House lawn, heads bowed.
清晨8时46分，2001年9月11日第一架飞机撞向北塔的时间，人们进行了片刻的默哀。在华盛顿，奥巴马偕同妻子及副总统乔·拜登(Joe Biden)俯首静立在白宫的草坪上。
At 9:03, a second pause was taken for the moment a plane hit the south tower. There were four more moments of silence interrupting the annual reading of the 2,983 names of those who died in the attacks — marking the fall of each tower, the attack on the Pentagon and the crash of Flight 93 into a field in Pennsylvania.
在9时03分，第二场默哀为另一架飞机撞击南塔的时刻而举行。每年对于那2983名袭击死难者名字的宣读，都会被四次静默打断——它们分别纪念两塔的倒塌、对五角大楼的袭击，及93号航班在宾夕法尼亚一片土地上的坠落。
At the Pentagon, the Navy Brass Quartet played the national anthem as Obama, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, turned to face an immense American flag hanging on a rebuilt wall of the building.
在五角大楼，奥巴马、国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)，及美国参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)在海军铜管乐四重奏演奏的国歌声中转过身，面向悬挂在该建筑重建的一座墙壁上的一面巨大的美国国旗。
But if the routines seemed largely unchanged, there were some notable differences this year. In New York, it was the first anniversary that the National September 11 Memorial Museum was open to the public, and the new 1 World Trade Center, looming overhead, is nearly complete.
尽管这些例程看起来大致没有什么变化，但今年的纪念活动却有一些显著的不同之处。在纽约，这是国家9·11纪念博物馆对公众开放的第一个纪念日；正拔地而起高耸入云的新世界贸易中心一号大楼已近完工。
And there was the president's call for an expanded campaign against the militants of the Islamic State group, which had special resonance among those gathered at ground zero.
另外，总统还发出了扩大对伊斯兰国武装分子打击行动的号召，这在聚集在世贸遗址地面一层的人之中激起了特殊的共鸣。