NEW YORK — After a decade marked by deep grief, partisan rancor, war, financial boondoggles and inundation from Hurricane Sandy, the National September 11 Memorial Museum at ground zero is finally opening ceremonially on Thursday, with President Obama present, and officially to the public next Wednesday. It delivers a gut-punch experience — though if ever a new museum had looked, right along, like a disaster in the making, this one did, beginning with its trifurcated identity.
纽约——过去10年，深切的悲伤、党派矛盾、战争、虚假的金融繁荣和飓风“桑迪”(Sandy)引发的洪水一直在困扰美国。如今，设立在9·11事件原爆点的纪念馆终于将在周四举行开馆仪式，届时奥巴马总统也将出席。纪念馆将于下周三正式对公众开放。它传达了一种震撼人心的体验——没有哪个新博物馆能像它这样，从头到尾如同一场正在发生的灾难，从它的三重身份开始。
Was it going to be primarily a historical document, a monument to the dead or a theme-park-style tourist attraction? How many historical museums are built around an active repository of human remains, still being added to? How many cemeteries have a $24 entrance fee and sell souvenir T-shirts? How many theme parks bring you, repeatedly, to tears?
它将主要成为一个历史记录、一座纪念亡灵的纪念碑，还是一个主题公园式的旅游景点？有多少历史博物馆会围绕一个不断有新遗骸被送进来的人类遗骸库进行建设？有多少墓地会收取24美元（约合150元人民币）的门票，而且还在出售纪念T恤？又有多少主题公园会反复让你落泪？
Because that’s what the museum does. The first thing to say about it, and maybe the last, is that it’s emotionally overwhelming, particularly, I expect, for New Yorkers who were in the city on that apocalyptic September day and the paranoia-fraught weeks that followed, but almost as certainly for the estimated two billion people around the globe who followed the horror unfolding on television, radio and the Internet.
这个纪念馆会。关于它，首先要说的，也许也是归根结底要说的，就是它具有强大的情感冲击力，我认为对于那些在9月大灾难发生当天——以及随后痛苦焦虑的几周里——身处这座城市的纽约人，当然还有全球大约20亿通过电视、电台和网络跟进此事的人而言尤其如此。
Anguished, angry questions about the museum, raised by families of some of the 2,983 people who died on Sept. 11, 2001, and in the 1993 attack on the World Trade Center, have been widely reported. Debates over purpose, propriety and protocol are still in the air. At times, they have threatened to derail the project, or delay it indefinitely. But the work inched forward, and the museum that emerged is true to its initial and literally fundamental goal: to tell the Sept. 11 story at ground zero bedrock.
丧生于2001年9月11日和1993年世贸中心(World Trade Center)袭击案中的2983人的亲属，曾痛苦而愤怒地对这个纪念馆提出质疑，对此媒体进行过广泛的报道。关于目的、仪轨和规范的争论仍在继续。他们有时会威胁要阻止这个项目，或者将其无限推迟。但是，相关工作还是在缓慢进行，最终建成的纪念馆的确符合它最初及字面上的根本目的：在原爆点的地基处向人们讲述9·11的故事。
While the accompanying National September 11 Memorial — two granite basins of cascading water that fill the twin tower footprints — is viewable from a street-level plaza, the museum is almost entirely subterranean. The bulk of it, some 110,000 square feet of gallery space, is 70 feet below ground, where the foundations of the towers met raw Manhattan schist.
虽然人们可以从街面的广场上看到旁边的国家9·11纪念馆——两个花岗岩水池，有水从池壁上流下，它们刚好填充了双子塔的地基，但纪念馆几乎完全位于地下。它的主体部分，即约11万平方英尺（约合1万平方米）的展览空间都位于地下70英尺（约合21米）的地方，双子塔的地基在这里碰到了曼哈顿地下的天然片岩。
Invisibility can make for strong drama. A descent into darkness is the stuff of suspense. It’s also the classic route of religious ritual and regeneration, bringing images of the tomb and the seedbed to mind. The museum makes full use of these associations and reveals itself slowly.
这种不可见的效果有助于带来强烈的冲击力。沉入黑暗能制造悬念。它还是宗教仪式和重生的经典途径，能让人联想起坟墓和发源地。纪念馆对这些因素进行了充分利用，慢慢将自己展示在参观者面前。
The drama starts, low key, on the plaza level with an aboveground entry pavilion midway between the memorial fountains. Designed by the Norwegian architectural firm Snohetta, it’s a glass box set at a sharp, dizzy tilt, like a tipping building or a listing ship. The blond-wood atrium, with its coat checks, a small cafe and a closed-off room for the use of Sept. 11 families, is atmospherically neutral, even bland, but offers an unmistakable sight: two of the immense steel trident columns that were the signature features of the twin tower facades.
戏剧从广场上低调地拉开帷幕。人们要从地面上两个纪念喷泉之间的厅廊进入。此厅由挪威建筑公司斯诺赫塔(Snohetta)设计，是一个大角度倾斜、令人晕眩的玻璃盒，就像一栋倒塌的大楼或一条侧翻的船。用亮色木装饰的前厅配有衣帽间、一个小咖啡厅，还有一个专供9·11遇难者亲属使用的房间。这里的气氛并无特别之处，甚至可谓平常，但是有个景象不可能错过：两个巨大的三叉戟钢柱，呈现出双子塔标志性的外立面轮廓。
Recorded sound, once inadmissible in conventional museums, plays a major role in this one. So does scale. You emerge from the corridor’s close, oppressive aural cloud onto a platform overlooking a yawning space and an archaeological monolith: a 60-foot-high exposed section of the World Trade Center’s slurry wall. This thick, foundational barrier of poured concrete, laid before construction began in 1966, was, and is, the bulwark between the trade center and the Hudson River.
文献录音在传统博物馆里曾是不可接受的，但在这里却发挥了重要作用。尺度也同样重要。你从氛围封闭而压抑的走廊走到一个平台上，俯视着一个宏伟的空间，以及一块考古发现般的单独巨石：高60英尺的世贸中心地下连续墙露出部分。这个厚重的地基屏障由混凝土制成，是在1966年建筑工作开始前放置的。不论过去还是现在，它一直是世贸中心与哈德逊河之间的壁垒。
When the twin towers collapsed, there was fear that the wall would give, flooding the site. It didn’t give. It cracked, but held, and was quickly claimed as an emblem of indomitability and resilience. Daniel Libeskind, when he was hired as master planner for a new trade center complex in 2003, spoke of the slurry wall as the soul of his design, and by then it had already served as a multipurpose symbol of urban recovery, democracy, communal strength, the human spirit, not to mention the virtues of sound engineering.
双子塔坍塌时，有人担心这堵墙会崩塌，从而使这里被淹。但它并没有崩塌。出现了裂缝，但还是挺住了。它很快被当成了不屈不挠和坚韧的象征。2003年，丹尼尔·里柏斯金(Daniel Libeskind)在受聘担任新世贸中心建筑群总规划师时说，这堵地下连续墙可谓他设计的灵魂。当时，它就已经具有多种象征意义，比如城市恢复、民主、公共力量、人文精神，更别提声音工程方面的好处了。
Metaphorical thinking was rife in the days and months after Sept. 11. Everything was framed in terms of darkness and light, wounding and healing, death and rebirth. The interior design of the museum, by the New York firm Davis Brody Bond, preserves this kind of thinking in several of its features, notably in a long, descending ramp that leads visitors down seven stories, between the gigantic sunken cubes of the memorial pool basins, to true ground zero.
9·11之后的岁月里，隐喻思维很流行。一切都被用黑暗和光明、创伤和康复、死亡和重生这样的措辞来限定。由纽约的戴维斯-布罗迪-邦德(Davis Brody Bond)公司完成的纪念馆内部设计在几个方面保留了这种思维，最显而易见的是一条通往地下的长坡道。在纪念池形成的两个巨型立方体凹陷之间，访客沿着的这条坡道向下走七层，来到真正的原爆点。
The ramp was inspired by an access road that was created during the early recovery phase and eventually took on a sacral aura. But in the museum context, the ramp becomes a processional path, lined with anticipatory vistas and projected versions of the “Missing” posters that papered the post-Sept. 11 city for weeks.
这个坡道的灵感来自一条进出通道，那条通道是在救援阶段的初期修建的，最后有了一种神圣的气息。但在纪念馆的氛围下，这条坡道变成了一条仪式性的道路，路两边能看到对未来的展望，以及“寻人”告示的投影。9·11公布袭击过后的数周里，这座城市里出现了铺天盖地的寻人告示。
And when the path finally ends at bedrock, it leaves a choice of ways to go, toward a subdued exhibition commemorating those killed by the terrorist attacks or toward a disturbingly vivid evocation of the events themselves. It’s at this point that the conflicted character of the museum starts to become clear.
坡道的尽头是基岩，在那里，游客可以选择怎么走，是去观看一场压抑的、纪念恐怖袭击遇难者的展览，还是去观看对那些事件本身的回放。这种回放生动得令人不安。正是在这时，这座纪念馆自相矛盾的特点开始变得明显起来。
The commemorative display is, basically, the equivalent of a communal, life-honoring memorial service perpetually in progress. Photographs of nearly 3,000 people cover the walls of a gallery. The same faces, along with biographical portraits and spoken reminiscences, can be pulled up on touch screens and projected large in another room. Some 14,000 still unidentified or unclaimed Sept. 11 remains reside, unseen, in an adjacent repository, at the request of a vast majority of families.
纪念展览基本上相当于一场一直在进行的公共追悼会，表达了对生命的尊崇。近3000人的照片铺满了一间展厅的墙壁。在另一间屋子里，这些照片，连带相应的生平和语音回忆录，可以被转移到触摸屏上并被投影放大。应绝大多数家庭的要求，9·11袭击中大约1.4万件到现在依然身份不明、或是无人认领的遗骸被存放在隔壁的储藏室里，参观者看不到这些遗骸。
A smaller group has protested the presence of the remains here. Families of some victims have balked at the idea of a museum — especially one that will inevitably swarm with casual tourists — doubling as a mortuary. Others fear that a building that took on 11 feet of water during Hurricane Sandy could flood again. Finally, the fact that the remains are not technically entombed but in storage, and subject to removal for testing, under the auspices of the city’s chief medical examiner, inevitably compromises any sense of repose.
一个较小的团体已经对这些遗骸出现在这里表示了抗议。部分遇难者家庭对把太平间同时当作博物馆的想法表达了不满——尤其是考虑到这个博物馆势必会挤满了顺便来观光的游客。还有一些人则担心，一栋在飓风“桑迪”中积水深达11英尺的大楼可能会再次被水淹没。最后还有，那些遗骸严格来说尚未下葬，只是被存放在那里，而且可以在纽约首席验尸员的监督下被取走进行检验，这样一来就谈不上什么清净地了。
Repose is the last word you’d associate with the museum’s other, larger exhibition, addressing that September day itself. Winding through several galleries, it calls on videos, audio recordings, photographs and hundreds of objects to document, minute by minute, the events of that Tuesday, from 8:46 a.m., when American Airlines Flight 11 slammed into the north tower, and on past 10:28 a.m., when that tower fell, by which time three other planes were pulverized, the Pentagon was in flames, and thousands of people were gone.
而在纪念馆另一处的一个规模更大的展览，则是完全想不到清净这个词的，展览主题是9月11日那一天。在几个展厅里蜿蜒穿行，你会看到记录着那个周四从上午8点46分美国航空(American Airlines)11航班撞击北塔，到上午10点28分北塔倒塌以后每一分钟里发生的事情的视频、录音、照片以及数百件物品。到北塔倒塌时，另外三架飞机被毁，五角大楼陷入了一片火海，数千人遇难。
The prevailing story in the museum, as in a church, is framed in moral terms, as a story of angels and devils. In this telling, the angels are many and heroic, the devils few and vile, a band of Islamist radicals, as they are identified in a cut-and-dried, contextless and unnuanced film called “The Rise of Al Qaeda,” seen at the end of the exhibition.
就像在教堂里一样，这座纪念馆里占主导地位的故事，被从道德层面塑造成了天使与魔鬼的对立。在这种叙述中，天使众多而且英勇，魔鬼寥寥几个且邪恶，他们是一伙伊斯兰派激进分子，那部简明直白、缺乏语境与深度的影片《基地组织的崛起》(The Rise of Al Qaeda)就是这么描绘他们的，游客可以在展览的最后看到。
The narrative is not so much wrong as drastically incomplete. It is useful history, not deep history; news, not analysis. This approach is probably inevitable in a museum that is, to an unusual degree, still living the history it is documenting; still working through the bereavement it is memorializing; still attached to the idea that, for better and worse, Sept. 11 “changed everything,” though there is plenty of evidence that, for better and worse, this is not so. The amped-up patriotism set off by the attacks has largely subsided. So has the tender, in-this-together generosity that Americans extended to one another at the time.
这种叙述与其说是错的，不如说是缺略太多。它是有用的历史，不是深刻的历史；是新闻，不是分析。在这样一座纪念馆里，这种方式可能是无法避免的。在相当程度上，这座纪念馆仍然停留在自己所记录的历史里；仍然挣扎在自己所纪念的丧亲之痛中；它仍然寄托着一个念头：9·11——不论是好是坏——“改变了一切”，尽管大量证据已经表明——不论是好是坏——事实并非如此。袭击引发的爱国主义大潮，现在基本上已经消退。当时美国人对彼此表现出的温柔的、共度难关的包容，同样也已经不在。
Still, within its narrow perspective, maybe because of it, the museum has done something powerful. And, fortunately, it seems to regard itself as a work in progress, involved in investigation, not summation. I hope so. If it stops growing and freezes its narrative, it will become, however affecting, just another Sept. 11 artifact. If it tackles the reality that its story is as much about global politics as about architecture, about a bellicose epoch as much as about a violent event, it could deepen all our thinking about politics, morality and devotion.
然而，通过这种狭隘的视角，也许恰恰是因为这种狭隘的视角，纪念馆完成了一件了不起的事。而且幸运的是，它似乎认为自己是一件仍处在创作中的作品，所做的工作是调查，而不是汇总。希望如此。如果停止发展，固定自己的叙述，无论多么感人，它都只会成为另一件和9·11有关的人工制品。它的故事既关乎全球政治，也关乎建筑，既关乎好战的新时代，也关乎一起暴力事件，如果能够去面对这一现实，它将加深我们对政治、道德和虔诚的一切思考。