With the ringing of a bell, the thousands who gathered in Lower Manhattan fell silent on Sunday, and all that could be heard was the water cascading in the reflecting pools where the World Trade Center towers once stood.
周日，随着钟声响起，聚集在曼哈顿下城的数千人陷入沉默，唯一能听到的是世界贸易中心遗址上倒影池水瀑流动的声音。
It was 8:46 a.m., the moment when, 15 years earlier, a plane struck the north tower.
时间是上午8点46分。15年前的这个时候，一架飞机撞击了世贸中心北楼。
Family members of the victims bowed their heads, some crying and embracing, while others stood tall, looking up at the overcast skies. About 8,000 people crowded the National September 11 Memorial plaza at the World Trade Center for what has become an annual ritual: the reading of the names of the 2,977 people killed in the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, 2001, and of the six killed in the bombing of the World Trade Center on Feb. 26, 1993.
受害人家属低着头，有些相拥而泣，有些挺身望向阴沉沉的天空。位于世贸中心的9·11国家纪念馆的广场上挤满了人，大约有8000人前来参加已经成为惯例的一年一度的仪式：诵读在2001年9月11日的恐怖袭击中遇难的2977人的姓名，以及在1993年2月26日的世贸中心爆炸事件中遇难的6个人的名字。
With the 15th anniversary falling on a Sunday, people turned out for the ceremony in much larger numbers than in previous years. But for the family members of the victims, it was another year of grief, and the pain was as raw as ever.
因为今年的15周年纪念赶上了周日，参加仪式的人数比往年要多得多。但是对遇难者家属而言，这意味着又熬过了一年的悲伤，而疼痛却依然如初。
“It feels like it’s been 15 seconds,” said Tom Acquaviva, whose son, Paul, died while working in the north tower. He was 29 years old, “too young,” Mr. Acquaviva said.
“感觉就像刚过去15秒，”汤姆·阿夸维瓦(Tom Acquaviva)说。他的儿子保罗(Paul)当年在世贸中心北楼工作，遇难时只有29岁，“太年轻了，”阿夸维瓦说。
Classical string music played as mothers, fathers, siblings, children and other relatives read the names, one by one. Some paused to say a few words to their loved ones; others offered updates on graduations, weddings and other milestones during the past 15 years.
现场播放着古典管弦乐，父母亲、兄弟姐妹、儿女等亲人逐一诵读遇难者的名字。有人停下来对他们挚爱的逝者说了几句话；其他一些人则告知他们过去15年里发生的毕业、婚礼和其他里程碑事件。
The bell tolled five more times: at 9:03, when a plane struck the south tower; at 9:37, when a plane hit the Pentagon; at 9:59, when the south tower collapsed; at 10:03, when a hijacked plane crashed in Shanksville, Pa., after passengers staged a revolt; and at 10:28, when the other tower fell.
之后，钟声又响起五次：9点零3分，第二架飞机撞向南楼；9点37分，第三架飞机撞向五角大楼；9点59分，南楼倒塌；10点零3分，第四架被劫持的飞机在乘客夺回控制权后在宾夕法尼亚州的尚克斯维尔坠毁；10点28分，北楼倒塌。
Both presidential candidates, Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton, attended the ceremony, though neither made public remarks and both agreed not to campaign for the day. A spurt of cheers welcomed Mr. Trump just before the ceremony started.
两名总统候选人——唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)和希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)——均出席了活动，不过他们都没有做公开发言，也一致同意不在这一天开展竞选活动。就在仪式即将开始之前，场上出现过一阵迎接特朗普的欢呼声。
An hour and a half into the ceremony, Mrs. Clinton felt overheated and left to rest in her daughter’s Manhattan apartment, according to a statement released by her campaign. Around 11:40 a.m., she emerged from the apartment building on her own, waved to onlookers and said she was “feeling great.”
根据克林顿竞选团队发布的声明，在仪式进行到一个半小时的时候，她感到身体过热，于是离开现场，到她女儿位于曼哈顿的公寓里休息。上午11点40左右，她从公寓楼里走出来，向旁观者挥手，并表示自己“感觉很好”。
At the Pentagon, President Obama delivered his last address commemorating the 184 victims there, and while his words were similar to remarks he has given before, they were a clear rebuke to the divisive rhetoric coursing through the presidential campaign.
奥巴马总统在五角大楼发表了讲话，纪念在这里遇难的184人。这是他在总统任期内最后一次发表此类演讲。尽管听起来和往年的内容有些雷同，但这一次的讲话对贯穿下任总统竞选的那些制造分裂的言辞，进行了明确地指责。
Mr. Obama said that after the attacks, it was important for the country to defend not only its territory, “but also our ideals.”
奥巴马称，在9·11袭击发生后，重要的不仅仅是保卫自己的国土，“也要捍卫我们的理想”。
He said that groups like Al Qaeda and the Islamic State know that they cannot defeat a nation such as the United States, so their attacks are intended to cause fear that leads Americans to turn on one another and “change who we are or how we live.”
他表示，基地组织(Al Qaeda)和伊斯兰国(Islamic State)等团体知道自己无法击败美国这样一个国家，所以他们发起袭击的目的是引发恐慌，导致美国人将矛头指向彼此，“改变了我们和我们的生活方式”。
“And that’s why it is so important today that we reaffirm our character as a nation — a people drawn from every corner of the world, every color, every religion, every background — bound by a creed as old as our founding, e pluribus unum,” Mr. Obama said.
“这也是为什么，在今天我们重新确认自己作为一个国家的特性如此重要的原因。我们来自世界各个角落、各种肤色、宗教与背景，因同样的信念团结在一起。这个信念起始于国家创建之初，即e pluribus unum，”奥巴马说。
Mr. Obama has previously expressed his opposition to proposals by Mr. Trump to ban Muslim immigration. Mr. Obama said that those kinds of proposals undermined the foundations of American democracy, which was why on Sunday he translated the Latin phrase that remains on the seal of the United States.
对特朗普提出的禁止穆斯林移民的提议，奥巴马一直表示反对。他称，这类提议有损美国民主的根基，而这正是他在周日翻译了那则依然留在美国国徽上的拉丁短语的原因。
“Out of many, we are one,” he said. “For we know that our diversity — our patchwork heritage — is not a weakness; it is still, and always will be, one of our greatest strengths. This is the America that was attacked that September morning. This is the America that we must remain true to.”
“合众为一，”他说。“因为我们知道多样性——我们的多元化遗产——并不是一个弱点；它依然是，也将永远是我们最大的优势之一。这就是在那个9月的上午遭遇袭击的美国，也是我们必须要始终真诚以待的那个美国。”
In Shanksville, about 1,000 people attended the annual service at the Flight 93 National Memorial, honoring the 40 passengers and crew members who died there. The site, about 60 miles southeast of Pittsburgh, is where the United Airlines flight crashed as passengers stormed the cockpit.
在尚克斯维尔，约1000人参加了在美联航93号航班纪念园(Flight 93 National Memorial)举行的年度纪念仪式，悼念在那里遇难的40名乘客和机组成员。当年，美国联合航空(United Airlines)的这架航班在乘客试图进入驾驶舱期间，坠毁在地处匹兹堡东南约60英里处的尚克斯维尔。
Addressing the victims’ families, Sally Jewell, the secretary of the interior, said: “You have known the terrible pain of loss. None of us would want to trade places with you, but we honor your sacrifice.”
在向遇难者家属发表讲话时，内政部长萨莉·朱厄尔(Sally Jewell)说：“你们经历失去亲人的巨大痛苦。我们没人想和你们互换位置，但我们向你们做出的牺牲表示敬意。”
About halfway through the ceremony in Manhattan, the sun began to peer through the clouds, beaming on the new 1 World Trade Center. During a moment of silence at 10 a.m., a woman cried as she faced the building, and a firefighter passed her a packet of tissues.
曼哈顿的纪念仪式进行到大约一半时，阳光开始穿透云层，照耀在新落成的世界贸易中心1号楼(1 World Trade Center)上。上午10点默哀期间，一名女子面对着大楼痛哭了起来，一名消防员递给她了一包纸巾。
The woman, Kristen Alverson, 55, said she was thinking about her close friends Edward James Day, 45, and Richard John Kelly Jr., 50, both firefighters with Ladder Company 11 who served alongside her husband, who survived.
这名女子是现年55岁的克丽丝滕·阿尔弗森(Kristen Alverson)。她说自己想起了挚友，时年45岁的爱德华·詹姆斯·戴(Edward James Day)和50岁的小理查德·约翰·凯利(Richard John Kelly Jr.)。两人都是消防员，和阿尔弗森的丈夫一起供职于第11云梯分队(Ladder Company 11)。阿尔弗森的丈夫保住了性命。
“At that moment,” she said, “so many people perished.”
“那一刻，”她说。“那么多人失去了生命。”
Danielle Kousoulis, 29, a bond broker, was in her office at the investment firm Cantor Fitzgerald in the north tower on Sept. 11. Just before Ms. Kousoulis died, her sister said, she knew that the south tower had fallen and feared that her building would be next. She called her boyfriend twice, but refrained from calling others to let her co-workers use her phone.
9月11日那天，时年29岁的丹妮尔·库苏里斯(Danielle Kousoulis)正在自己位于北楼的办公室里。她是一名债券经纪人，供职于投资公司坎托菲茨杰拉德(Cantor Fitzgerald)。她的姐姐说，就在遇难前，库苏里斯得知南楼倒塌，并担心自己所在的那栋楼会成为下一个目标。她给男友打了两个电话，但忍住没给其他人打电话，而是把自己的电话让给同事使用。
“Sometimes it feels like it was just yesterday; sometimes it feels like it was forever ago,” said her sister, Eleni Kousoulis, 46, of Philadelphia.
“有时候感觉事情就发生在昨天一样；有时候又觉得是很久很久以前的事情了，”库苏里斯现年46岁的姐姐、居于费城的埃莱妮·库苏里斯(Eleni Kousoulis)说。
Her mother, Zoe Kousoulis, 76, wore a heart-shaped necklace with her daughter’s picture on it. She said the only good that came from the attacks was that Eleni met her husband, who is in the Navy, through a 10th-anniversary event.
她的母亲、现年76岁的佐耶·库苏里斯(Zoe Kousoulis)戴着一条心形项链，上面有她女儿的照片。她说，袭击带来的唯一一个好的结果是，埃莱妮在一次十周年纪念活动上遇到了身为海军的丈夫。
“I always say Danielle sent him to her,” Zoe Kousoulis said.
“我总说是丹妮尔让他出现在她面前的，”佐耶·库苏里斯说。
The passage of time was evident by the children who spoke at the ceremony. Many had never known their relatives.
在纪念活动上发言的孩子，证明了时光的流逝。他们中不少人从未见过在袭击中遇难的亲人。
Valerie Arnold, 12, did not meet her uncle, Michael Boyle, 37, a firefighter with Engine Company 33. She said she found it hard to wrap her mind around the attacks, not having lived through them herself. But she said she has begun to understand, thanks to stories told to her by her grandfather, a retired firefighter who came to Lower Manhattan to help that day.
12岁的瓦莱丽·阿诺德(Valerie Arnold)从未见过自己的舅舅迈克尔·博伊尔(Michael Boyle)。博伊尔生前是第33消防车分队(Engine Company 33)的一名消防员，遇难时年仅37岁。阿诺德觉得很难理解那些袭击，因为自己没有亲身经历过。但她说，在外祖父讲的故事的帮助下，她开始理解了。她的外祖父是一名已退休的消防员，当天也来到曼哈顿下城帮忙。
“It’s crazy how people would do such a terrible thing,” she said.
“怎么会有人做这么可怕的事情，简直疯了，”她说。
After all the names were read and the crowds started to disperse, Yvonne Davis Rogers, 52, stayed behind to spend a quiet moment at a reflecting pool, where her brother’s name is engraved.
所有遇难者的名字都念完后，人群开始散去。52岁的伊冯娜·戴维斯·罗杰斯留了下来(Yvonne Davis Rogers)，想在刻有自己哥哥名字的倒影池旁静静地待一会儿。
She traced his name, Clinton Davis, onto a long white piece of paper. Mr. Davis, 38, was an officer with the Port Authority Police Department. “Just being here, it makes it better,” Ms. Davis Rogers, who lives in Pennsylvania, said. “This encourages me to keep going.”
她把哥哥克林顿·戴维斯(Clinton Davis)的名字描摹在了一张长条白纸上。袭击发生时，38岁的克林顿·戴维斯是港务局警务处(Port Authority Police Department)的一名警察。“仅仅是来到这里，也会更好，”现居宾夕法尼亚州的戴维斯·罗杰斯说。“这会鼓励我坚持下去。”