Alone or in groups they emerged from the dark exhibition halls and the even darker subject matter of the National September 11 Memorial Museum, reaching for words like “overwhelming,” “shock” and “gut-wrenching.”
他们从国家9·11纪念博物馆昏暗的展厅独自一人或成群结队地走出来，在领略过纪念馆的沉重主题后，在脑海中搜寻着“令人崩溃”、“震撼”和“撕心裂肺”等词汇。
On Wednesday, nearly a week after it was opened to family members of victims and rescue workers, the museum opened to the general public.
周三，在向9·11遇难者家属和救援工作者开放近一周后，纪念馆开始向普通民众开放。
As the doors opened at 9 a.m., tourists dressed casually in pink running shoes and Mona Lisa T-shirts lined up alongside somber-faced New Yorkers waiting to pay their respects to friends and neighbors who died in the terrorist attack.
纪念馆在上午9点开门，穿着粉色跑鞋和蒙娜丽莎T恤衫的游客与表情严肃的纽约人一起排起长队，后者在等着向丧生于此次恐怖袭击之中的朋友或邻居致哀。
“Gut-wrenching would describe it best,” said Nell Anderson, 29, an interior designer in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn. “People were very solemn, very quiet. The attacks happened when I was in high school but now I call New York my home, and I went to pay my respects.”
“撕心裂肺是最恰当的描述，”布鲁克林区科布尔山的室内设计师、29岁的内尔·安德森(Nell Anderson)说。“人们非常严肃，非常安静。袭击发生时，我还在念高中，但现在我已经把纽约当成了家，所以我来这里表示哀悼。”
Dr. James Koppel, 62, an anesthesiologist from Manhattan, said: “I’m just in shock. I didn’t think it would be as extensive as it was, and I didn’t think I would be so saddened once again.”
来自曼哈顿的麻醉医生、62岁的詹姆斯·科佩尔(Dr. James Koppel)说：“我感到震惊。我没想到感觉会像从前那样强烈，也没想到我会再次如此悲痛。”
“It had sort of receded a little bit, and coming back here brings it back to life,” Dr. Koppel said. He was glad that he had visited, but added: “I am not sure I would come again. The feelings it stirred up were not pleasant feelings.”
“这种感受本来已经淡化了一些，而回到这里又把它带了回来，”科佩尔说。他很高兴自己来了。但他又说：“我不确定自己还会不会再来。这里给我的感觉并不是令人愉悦的。”
The first day’s allocation of 7,000 tickets had all been sold out online, well in advance of the opening day. The museum plans to allow 5,000 to 8,000 visitors per day, though that figure could be adjusted. The admission fee is $24, though relatives of Sept. 11 victims and rescue and recovery workers can enter free.
第一天的7000张票早在开馆日之前就在网上卖光了。纪念馆计划每天允许5000到8000名参观者入馆参观，这个数字可能还会被调整。门票是24美元（约合150元人民币），但是9·11遇难者的亲属，以及救援和恢复工作者可以免费进入。
There were some dissenting voices among the visitors. Todd Fine, an amateur historian and a leader of a grass-roots movement to increase recognition of downtown Manhattan’s Arab-American past, called on the museum to redo the exhibition’s video presentation on the ideological roots of the attacks, which he described as “very problematic.”
参观者中也存在一些不同的声音。历史爱好者及一个草根运动的领导者托德·法恩(Todd Fine)呼吁纪念馆重新制作有关袭击的意识形态根源的展示视频。他说现有的视频内容“很有问题”。他的运动旨在增加人们对曼哈顿下城阿拉伯裔美国人历史的认识。
“If they are going to get into the history of the ideologies behind Al Qaeda they need to get into the full political context of the Middle East in the 20th century that created these organizations,” he said.
他说，“如果他们要提及基地组织(Al Qaeda)背后的意识形态历史，他们还需要探寻20世纪中东地区催生这些组织的整个政治背景。”
Others said that while they had an overall positive view, they found the idea of a gift shop too crassly commercial, or they cringed at the thought of having to revisit images of airliners crashing into the towers. “I think we all remember that — do we have to see it over and over again?” said Lori Strelecki, 50, from Milford, Pa.
其他人表示，虽然他们总体对纪念馆表示认可，但是设立纪念品商店的想法让他们觉得过于商业化，有些考虑不周；一想到重新看一遍飞机撞上高楼的场景，他们就会不寒而栗。来自宾夕法尼亚州米尔福德的50岁的洛里·斯特雷莱基(Lori Strelecki)说，“我想我们都记得那个场景，我们还要去反复看它吗？”
The official opening was preceded by a ceremonial unfurling of what is known as the National 9/11 Flag, a torn and discolored American flag that hung at the World Trade Center site after the attacks and was stitched back together on a journey to all 50 states. Donated by the New York Says Thank You Foundation, it will become part of the museum’s collection.
在正式的开馆仪式之前，有关方面还举行了“9·11国旗”(National 9/11 Flag)的展旗仪式。这是一面袭击事件发生后挂在世贸中心(World Trade Center)遗址的美国国旗，它已经破损而且褪色，在被带到美国50个州以后，它又得到了修补。它由“纽约说谢谢你”基金会(New York Says Thank You Foundation)捐赠，将会成为博物馆的一件藏品。
Children stood alongside a uniformed honor guard holding the flag during a brief opening ceremony, during which Joseph C. Daniels, chief executive of the memorial and museum foundation, said: “That’s why we built this museum, at the end of the day. It is to make sure that our children’s children’s children know what this country went through on 9/11, and equally as important, know how we came together to help one another with absolutely limitless compassion.”
在简短的开幕式上，一名身着制服的仪仗兵举着这面国旗，旁边还站着一群孩子。纪念馆及博物馆基金会的首席执行官约瑟夫·C·丹尼尔斯(Joseph C. Daniels)在仪式上说：“这就是我们建造这座博物馆的最终目的。这是为了保证我们孩子的孩子的孩子都知道这个国家在9·11中的经历；同样重要的是，还要让他们知道我们曾怀着绝对无限的同情，互相团结，彼此帮助。”