IT’S rare when we find ourselves as the right person in the right place at the right time. More often, it’s an unsatisfying mix of those and other variables: The place is right, the timing is spot on — only you were off.
能够作为正确的人出现在正确的时间和地点，这样的机会少之又少。通常情况下，不是有这样的遗憾就是那样的遗憾：地点对了，时间也正好――只是你不在场。
I was 22 years old, and one day into an internship at the ABC program “Nightline,” when the Sept. 11 attacks happened. They woke this country up from the slumber of the 1990s, and in my case, from a jet-lagged coma in a corporate housing unit down the street from the Pentagon. In a week, I went from a sheltered college existence to having ash on the balcony from the smoldering crash site nearby.
那年我22岁，9·11袭击的前一天刚刚进入ABC台的“夜线”(Nightline)节目实习。这场袭击令整个国家从20世纪90年代的酣梦中惊醒，也令住在五角大楼同一条街上一处公司住房里的我，从时差的昏沉中清醒过来。一个星期之前，我还是备受呵护的大学生，突然，附近还在燃烧的坠机就让我的阳台积满灰尘。
My fellow interns and I soon realized we weren’t ready for the real world to introduce itself so cataclysmically. A White House intern friend, exhausted by the unending hours of TV coverage, marched to the video store one night, bought a VHS copy of the movie “Notting Hill” and proceeded to wear it out with almost nightly viewings. I went in the other direction and consumed hours of news coverage, studying what occurred from every angle, as if I were still cramming for a final exam I needed to ace.
现实世界以如此巨大的灾难做了自我介绍，而我和身边的其他实习生们意识到，我们还没做好准备。我的一个朋友在白宫做实习生，没完没了的电视报道让他精疲力尽，一天晚上，他到店里去买了一盘《诺丁山》(Notting Hill)的录像带，接着就几乎每天晚上一遍遍地看。我则走上了另一个方向，接连几个小时都用来观看新闻报道，从各个角度研究发生的事件，好像还在为必须考好的期末考试死记硬背一样。
It will forever be a dark time for this country. It was also a terrible time in American history to look or appear even remotely Muslim. A Pakistani-American colleague stopped wearing a prayer ring — given to her by her grandmother — that had Arabic script on it because she got suspicious looks on the subway.
那段时间对于这个国家来说永远是一个黑暗时期。对于那些长得或看起来哪怕有一点像穆斯林的人来说，也是在整个美国历史上一段可怕的时期。一个巴基斯坦裔美国同事不再佩戴祖母送她的祈祷指环，因为上面的阿拉伯语铭文让她在地铁上显得可疑。
My friend and roommate, who like me is Indian-American, waited up for me that first week after I’d stumble out of the office at 3 a.m. He did this partly to get the latest news, but also to make sure I was safe from the kind of random retaliation Muslims and even non-Muslims like myself were enduring.
我的朋友兼室友和我一样，也是印度裔美国人，事发后的第一个星期里，我每天都是凌晨3点下班，他就天天为我等门。一方面是因为他想知道最新的消息，另一方面也想证实我的安全，他担心当时针对穆斯林、甚至是像我这样的非穆斯林的胡乱报复会落在我头上。
As the country was putting the pieces back together, we were suddenly forced to construct our identities in a post-Sept. 11 world. And I had it easy; no turban, no beard, and a tendency to overcompensate with niceness.
随着这个国家的缓慢复原，我们也突然被迫在后9·11世界里重建自己的身份。对我来说这还算容易；我不戴头巾、不留胡子，乐于用善意来补偿自己的遭遇。
We had a villain back then: Osama bin Laden, the man who caused all that pain, anger and anxiety. Monday is the fifth anniversary of his death. News outlets will most likely focus on what has replaced him, the fragmented, nihilistic terrorism of groups like the Islamic State. But I’ve been thinking back to the months after Sept. 11, when Bin Laden spoke to us through video and audio messages — and I voiced them on screen.
那时候我们有一个大反派：奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)，是他造成了这一切的痛苦、愤怒与焦虑。周一就是他毙命的五周年之期。届时新闻媒体多半会关注他的取代者，像伊斯兰国那样的碎片化、虚无主义的恐怖组织。但我却回想起9·11之后的那几个月，本·拉登通过影像和音频向我们传递信息——而我在电视屏幕上说出了这些话。
The tapes arrived randomly, throwing the newsroom into a frenzy and immediately becoming that evening’s lead story. One day, a news producer asked the office bullpen if anyone wanted to voice-over the English translation of Bin Laden’s latest ominous message. My hand shot up.
那些带子随随便便就寄来了，却让整个新闻编辑室顿时陷入狂乱，这个消息马上就成了晚间的头条新闻。一天，一个新闻制作人问编辑室里的候补队员们，有没有人愿意为本·拉登最新发来的那些不祥消息配上英文画外音。我腾地一下就举起了手。
In hindsight, this was not something a rational brown male should’ve volunteered for so enthusiastically.
事后看来，一个理性的棕色皮肤男人真不应该那么热心地自愿做这种事。
My first time in the recording booth, I was feeling my way through. I sat up straight, careful not to rustle any papers, which the sensitive microphones would pick up. In truth, I was trying my best to not sound like the immature college kid I knew in my heart I still was.
那还是我第一次进录音间，完全没有经验。我坐得笔直，小心不让纸张发出声音，被敏感的麦克风录进去。事实上，我在努力让自己的声音听起来不像个不成熟的大学生，内心深处，我知道自己仍然是这样一个人。
I did a second take, this time offering to do a Middle Eastern accent, because I fancied myself pretty good at accents and assumed I had license as someone of South Asian descent. A producer on a deadline is prone to say, “Yeah, whatever,” more than is advisable, and it all seemed innocuous enough. It even provided some gallows humor. Who’d we get to voice the most feared man in the world? The guy who routinely messes up printing out copies of the scripts.
录第二版的时候，我刻意带了点中东口音，因为我觉得自己很擅长模仿口音，还觉得自己既然是南亚裔，模仿点中东口音也无妨。制作人的截稿时间快到了，录成什么样他都会说，“耶，就这样吧”，不会给什么建议，一切似乎都很无害。甚至还有点绞架上的幽默之感。是谁给世界上最可怕的人配了音？就是那个每天跑来跑去复印台词的家伙。
After another tape came out, I stepped back into the booth. I wanted to go beyond a generic accent this time and impersonate Bin Laden himself, as if Emmys could be awarded for “Best Performance of a Radical Jihadist on a Network News Show.”
下一份录像出来了，我又一次坐在了录音间。这一次，我不再满足于普通的模仿口音，还想模仿本·拉登本人，好像艾美奖会把“最佳公共台新闻节目激进主义圣战者表演奖”发给我一样。
Bin Laden’s voice was soft, meek; not exactly the fiery orator his apocalyptic worldview seemed to warrant. I tried loosening up my posture and speaking from the back of my throat, hoping to give his voice-over more of a laconic, nasal sound.
本·拉登的声音柔软温和，并不是那种末日世界观的狂热鼓吹者似乎该有的声音。我试着放松坐姿，从喉咙深处发声，让自己配的画外音听上去更干脆简洁，带上一点鼻音。
I soon wondered whether the goal shouldn’t be mimicry, but to convey the true threat Bin Laden posed, to add a menacing tone to his banal voice of evil. I joked that my parents could brag to their friends: “Oh, your son is a doctor? Well, our son is busy instilling fear into millions of people.” I was acting every day anyway, trying to convince the world I was an adult able to function in a professional environment. This was just an extension of that.
很快，我就觉得自己可能不应该力求模仿得惟妙惟肖，而是应该传达出本·拉登想要表达的真正威胁，为他平庸的邪恶声音加上一点凶狠腔调。我开玩笑说，这下我爸爸妈妈可以和朋友们吹牛了，“哦，你儿子是医生？呵呵，我们的儿子正忙着把恐惧植入千百万人心中呢。”不管怎样，我每天都在忙碌，试着让这个世界相信，我是个能在职业环境中胜任角色的成年人。这只不过是其中的一项延伸任务而已。
Then came the day I got the review I had been waiting for. One of the executive producers, an intimidating presence whom I managed to disappoint at seemingly every turn, approached me.
然后那一天终于到来了，我得到了期待已久的评价。有个执行制作人是我特别害怕的，不知怎么，好像我做什么都没法让他满意，就是他找上了我。
“Are you the one doing the accents on the Bin Laden tapes?” he asked.
“你就是那个往本·拉登录像配音里加口音的家伙？”他问。
“Yeah!” I beamed proudly. Here it was. The pat on the back I was waiting for, the validation I so richly needed and deserved.
“耶！”我一脸自豪，眉开眼笑。终于来了，我期待已久的表扬，我那么需要、也完全配得上的肯定。
“Knock it off,” he said tersely, as if I was merely one of a hundred fires that needed extinguishing that day.
“别胡闹了，”他简短地说，好像我不过是那天需要他摆平的一百多个麻烦中的一个。
I was certain I’d be fired. More troubling, “knock it off” felt like a succinct critique of who I was at that time. It was as if he was saying, whatever you think you’re doing here, whomever you’re trying to be — knock it off. This is real life. This is war. Grow up. It’s not about you.
我敢肯定自己要被解雇了。更恼人的是，“别胡闹了”，听上去好像是对这段时期我整个人简明扼要的批评。好像他在说，不管你觉得自己在这儿干什么，不管你拼命想要成为什么人——你还是别胡闹了。这是现实生活。这是战争。成长点吧。这不是你出风头的时候。
I did one more Bin Laden voice-over. “We stress the importance of martyr operations against the enemy,” I said, delivering it plain, without emotion — exactly the way I should’ve to begin with.
后来我又给本·拉登配了一次音。“我们强调对敌自杀攻击行动的重要性，”我用平静、不带感情的声音说——从一开始我本来就应该这样。
Years later, I watched the celebrations after Bin Laden was killed. I can only hope that moment provided some amount of closure to the families of his victims. The deeper he went into hiding, though, the more he lost his terror grip on me. My favorite detail to come out of the compound raid — other than the stash of pornography — was Bin Laden’s attempt to rebrand Al Qaeda with corporate-sounding names like “Restoration of the Caliphate Group.” He had ceased being our villain, and was now apparently working toward a Master of Terror Administration degree.
多年后，看着人们欢庆本·拉登被击毙，我只希望这一刻能为受害者的家人带来一点解脱。不过，他愈是深深隐蔽起来，就愈是令我摆脱他的恐怖力量。关于袭击他的藏身之所一事爆出了种种细节，其中我最喜欢的事情并不是在他的住处发现了大量色情影片，而是他曾经试图给基地组织改名为“恢复哈里发国组织”，听上去像个公司的名字。他不再是我们的大反派了，而是好像还在考“恐怖主义管理学”研究生似的。
Five years after his death, Bin Laden seems buried in our collective consciousness, as deep as his body is in the ocean. What remains are those tapes, and our memories of that time. It was a moment in my life when the best advice I could’ve received was simply “knock it off.”
本·拉登毙命五年之后，似乎已经被深深埋葬在我们的集体记忆之中，正如他的尸体被沉没于海洋。留下来的只有那些录像，还有我们对那段时间的记忆。在我的生命中，那个时候，我能得到的最好建议就是简单的一句，“别胡闹了”。