NEW YORK — In a vast underground hall beside twisted and graffiti-adorned steel remnants of New York’s twin towers, President Obama and other dignitaries joined rescue workers and families of Sept. 11 victims Thursday to dedicate the new National September 11 Memorial Museum.
纽约——周四，在一座庞大的地下大厅里，奥巴马总统以及其他政要、救援人员和9·11遇难者家属共同参加了国家9·11纪念博物馆的落成仪式。在他们身旁是纽约双子塔形状扭曲的钢铁残骸，上面画着涂鸦。
Flags outside were at half-staff on the World Trade Center memorial plaza, where bronze panels bear the engraved names of the nearly 3,000 people who were killed in New York, Northern Virginia and Pennsylvania in 2001, and in the bombing of the World Trade Center in 1993.
大厅外的世贸中心纪念广场降了半旗，铜制的嵌板上镌刻着将近3000人的名字，囊括了2001年在纽约、北弗吉尼亚和宾夕法尼亚丧生，以及1993年在世贸中心爆炸事件中罹难的人。
About 700 guests attended the somber ceremony held in the museum’s Foundation Hall, 70 feet beneath ground level at bedrock. As some audience members wiped tears from their faces, or held on to family members, elected officials, survivors and rescue workers rose one by one to talk about the victims and what was left behind.
大约700名宾客参加了在地下70英尺（约合21米）的基岩处、博物馆的地基厅里举行的这个庄重仪式。官员、幸存者和救援人员一一起身，讲述遇难者和他们身后的故事，与此同时，有听众拭去脸上的泪水，或者和家人相互扶持。
“No act of terror can match the strength or the character of our country,” President Obama told the crowd during the one-hour dedication ceremony. “Like the great wall and bedrock that embrace us today,” he added, “nothing can ever break us.”
在长达一小时的落成仪式上，奥巴马对众人说，“没有什么恐怖行径能够与我们国家的力量和勇气匹敌，就像今天环绕着我们的坚实墙壁和基岩，没有什么可以摧毁我们。”
The event brought together under one roof political leaders whose careers have been influenced by Sept. 11. President Obama was commander in chief when the mastermind of the attacks, Osama bin Laden, was killed in 2011. Rudolph W. Giuliani was widely praised for his handling of the crisis as mayor in 2001, but misjudged the mood of the city when he sought to leverage it into a third term in office. His successor as mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, is widely credited with helping to steer New York back to stability and prosperity in the years that followed.
这次活动让一些职业生涯受到9·11事件影响的政治领导人聚到了一起。2011年击毙9·11袭击策划者奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)的时候，奥巴马是三军统帅。2001年，时任纽约市长鲁道夫·W·朱利安尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)处理危机的表现受到了广泛称赞，不过，他寻求利用此事赢得第三任期的做法却误判了市民的情绪。在此后的几年，他的继任者迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)帮助纽约恢复了稳定和繁荣，并因此受到广泛赞誉。
Although the president in his remarks referred obliquely to how “our SEALs made sure that justice was done” three years ago, he did not refer to Bin Laden by name. Instead, the president joined the other speakers in focusing his remarks on the victims who perished in flames and smoke and those who tried to save them.
尽管奥巴马在讲话时模糊地提到，三年前“我们的海豹突击队保证正义得到了伸张”，但他没有提及本·拉登的名字。奥巴马和其他演讲人，都把讲话内容专注于在火海和浓烟中遇难的人们，以及那些曾努力营救他们的人。
He singled out the heroism of Welles Crowther, 24, a young man with a red bandanna who helped save people in the south tower before it collapsed, killing him. His identity was long unknown until months later, when his mother read an article about the mysterious savior with the bandanna.
奥巴马特别谈起了韦尔斯·克劳瑟(Welles Crowther)的英勇事迹。这个随身携带着一条红色印花大手帕的年轻人当时只有24岁，他帮助营救了南塔里的人员，最终却在这栋楼坍塌时遇难。然而，直到他去世几个月后，当他的母亲读到了一篇关于带着大手帕的神秘救援者的文章时，他的身份才被外界得知。
Alison Crowther mounted the stage to say that she and her husband “could not be more proud” of their son. “Welles believed that we are all connected as one human family,” she said. “This is the true legacy of September 11.”
艾莉森·克劳瑟(Alison Crowther)走到台上说，她和丈夫对儿子感到“无与伦比地骄傲”。“韦尔斯相信，我们是一个彼此相联的人类大家庭，”她说。“这才是9·11的真正遗产。”
Mr. Bloomberg hosted the event, as chairman of the National September 11 Memorial and Museum, and described the museum as “a testament to the resilience, the courage and the compassion of the human spirit.”
作为国家9·11纪念与博物馆(National September 11 Memorial and Museum)的主席，布隆伯格主持了仪式。他说，这座博物馆“是人类精神中坚韧、勇气和悲悯的证明”。
He showed the president around some of the exhibits beforehand, accompanied by Michelle Obama, former President Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton. At the ceremony they were joined by other political figures, including Govs. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio, Mr. Giuliani, former Gov. George E. Pataki and former Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco of New Jersey.
他带着奥巴马提前参观了一些展品，同行的还有米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)、前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)以及希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)。出席仪式的政界人士还包括，新泽西州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)、纽约州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)、纽约市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)、朱利安尼、前纽约州长乔治·E·帕塔基(George E. Pataki)，以及前新泽西州长唐纳德·迪弗朗切斯科(Donald T. DiFrancesco)。
A spokesman for former President George W. Bush said he was invited but could not make it because of a scheduling conflict.
前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的发言人称，他收到了邀请，但因为时间冲突不能出席。
“Amazing Grace,” was sung by Rhonda LaChanze Sapp, an actress and Broadway singer who was pregnant when her husband, Calvin Gooding, was killed at the World Trade Center.
演员兼百老汇歌手朗达·拉香姿·赛普(Rhonda LaChanze Sapp)演唱了《奇异恩典》(Amazing Grace)。她的丈夫卡尔文·古丁(Calvin Gooding)在世贸中心丧生，当时她正身怀六甲。
Foundation Hall is dominated by a giant slurry wall — the underground construction that survived the initial attacks and held back the waters of the Hudson River after the towers collapsed. In the hall’s center is the Last Column, the final steel beam to be removed from ground zero.
地基厅内最显眼的东西就是一面巨大的地下连续墙——这一结构挺住了最初的袭击，并在双子塔坍塌之后阻挡了哈德逊河的水。在大厅的中心是“最后的立柱”，也就是从原爆点移走的最后一根钢梁。