Dov Charney, the founder and longtime chief executive of American Apparel who was ousted last week by the company’s board, filed a formal notice on Monday indicating that he did not plan to leave quietly.
AA美国服饰(American Apparel)的创始人、多年担任首席执行官一职的多夫·查尼(Dov Charney)上周遭董事会罢免。他周一（此处指6月23日）发表正式声明，说他不打算平静地离开。
A regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission stated that he was in talks with supportive shareholders about making changes to the board and company management in an effort to seek reinstatement.
根据向美国证劵交易委员会提交的一份监管备案，他正在与支持自己的股东们商谈对董事会和资方进行改革，以求复职。
After years of accusations against Mr. Charney that included sexual harassment and assault, the American Apparel board voted to remove him as chairman and to end his relationship with the retailer altogether. It outlined accusations such as repeatedly violating the company’s sexual harassment policies and arranging financial settlements with employees that would insulate him from personal liability.
多年来，查尼遭到包括性骚扰和性侵犯在内的多项指控，AA美国服饰的董事会因此投票罢免了他的主席职位，并同时终止了他与该零售公司的关系。董事会概述了这些指控，包括多次违背该公司的性骚扰政策，安排与员工经济和解，使自己免于个人责任。
But according to Mr. Charney’s lawyer, many of the issues the board outlined had been on the company’s radar for years.
但是据查尼的律师说，董事会陈述的很多问题多年前公司就已经知晓。
“Mr. Charney believes that such termination is without merit and intends to contest it vigorously,” the regulatory filing said.
“查尼先生认为这样的免职缺乏法律依据，打算提出强烈质疑，”该监管备案说。
In Mr. Charney’s termination letter, the board detailed a variety of the costs it said were associated with the founder’s behavior. Large severance packages were given to employees, without consulting the board, to insulate Mr. Charney from personal liability, the letter stated. It said the company’s deductible on employment practices liability insurance rose to $1 million, from $350,000.
在查尼的免职信中，董事会详细列举了由于这位创始人的行为而产生的各种费用。信中声称，在没有与董事会商议的情况下，为了免除自己的个人责任，查尼向员工支付了巨额遣散费。董事会说，该公司雇佣责任保险的免赔额从35万美元上升至100万美元。
The letter also said that Mr. Charney had exposed the company to claims of liability, accusing him of failing to stop publication on a blog of naked pictures of a former employee — Irene Morales, who had accused him of sexually harassing her. The letter said his actions in regard to that blog led an arbiter to find that the company had acted improperly.
信中还说，查尼使该公司背负法律责任，指责他未能停止在博客上发布前雇员艾琳·莫拉莱斯(Irene Morales)的裸照。莫拉莱斯曾指控查尼性骚扰。信中说，他在博客上发布裸照的行为导致一位仲裁员认为该公司行为不当。
In a letter sent to American Apparel last week, Mr. Charney’s lawyer, Patricia L. Glaser, called the company’s accusations “completely baseless.” The letter also said that most of board’s assertions “involve activities that occurred long ago (if at all) and about which the board and the company have had knowledge for years.”
在上周发给AA美国服饰的信中，查尼的律师帕特丽夏·L·格拉泽(Patricia L. Glaser)称该公司的指责“毫无根据”。信中还说董事会的大部分论断“涉及很久之前发生（或者根本没发生过）的事情，而且董事会和该公司多年前就已知晓这些事”。
The company has said it decided to fire Mr. Charney after uncovering new information about his behavior in an internal investigation, but Ms. Glaser’s letter questioned the “legitimacy and thoroughness” of the investigation because it did not include any discussion with Mr. Charney.
该公司说它是在一次内部调查中发现了关于查尼行为的新情况后才决定解雇他的，但是格拉泽在信中质疑这项调查的“合法性和彻底性”，因为该公司在调查中没有与查尼进行任何谈话。
Ms. Glaser demanded an immediate meeting with the company to discuss restoring Mr. Charney to his previous position, or else face a lawsuit. She set a deadline of Monday for the meeting to take place, but by the end of that day, no meeting had occurred.
格拉泽要求立即与该公司会谈，商议查尼复职的事情，否则就要起诉。她要求会谈最晚在周一举行，但是周一结束时，未举行任何会谈。
Ms. Glaser did not return calls for comment on Monday.
周一，格拉泽没有回复要求做出评论的电话。
From the opposite side in the dispute, American Apparel announced on Monday that it had hired the investment firm Peter J. Solomon.
而这场纠纷的另一方，AA美国服饰周一宣布，它已经雇佣了投资公司彼得·J·所罗门(Peter J. Solomon)。
John Luttrell, who was named last week as the retailer’s interim chief executive, said that while the company was on track to meet its earnings targets for the fiscal year, “we are pleased to be working with Peter J. Solomon to ensure that we have adequate access to capital in the future at a reasonable cost.” Borrowing money at “reasonable cost” has lately been a struggle for the company.
上周，约翰·勒特雷尔(John Luttrell)被任命为该零售公司的临时首席执行官。他说，虽然该公司有望完成该财政年度的盈利目标，但是“我们很高兴和彼得·J·所罗门公司合作，以保证未来我们能够以合理的代价获得足够的资金”。以“合理的代价”筹集资金是该公司最近的目标。
According to a person with knowledge of the board’s deliberations who spoke on the condition of anonymity, several financial institutions, including the Solomon investment bank, had earlier declined to work with American Apparel while Mr. Charney was running it. The person also said that the company had hired FTI Consulting to conduct a forensic investigation into Mr. Charney’s behavior.
了解董事会商议内容的一个人在匿名的前提下说，在查尼经营该公司期间，几家金融机构，包括所罗门投资银行，拒绝与AA美国服饰合作。此人还说，该公司已雇佣富事高咨询公司(FTI Consulting)对查尼的行为进行司法调查。
In recent months, lenders who did provide the company with financing did so for sizable credit-card-style interest rates of up to 20 percent.
最近几个月给该公司提供融资的贷款公司是看中了高达20%的类似信用卡的可观利率。