SEOUL, South Korea — The ACT college entrance exam was canceled on Saturday for thousands of students in South Korea and Hong Kong, after the test’s administrator said it had verified a breach of the testing materials.
韩国首尔——周六，在美国大学入学考试ACT的管理方称已证实考题泄露后，韩国和香港的ACT考试取消，数千名学生受影响。
The last-minute cancellation affected 5,500 students at 56 test centers in South Korea and Hong Kong, said Edward R. Colby, a spokesman for ACT. Students’ registration fees will be refunded, he said in an email.
ACT发言人爱德华·R·科尔比(Edward R. Colby)表示，最后一刻取消考试导致韩国和香港56个考试中心、5500名学生受到影响。他在电子邮件中表示，学生的报名费将被退还。
“ACT received credible evidence of the breach on Friday, June 10, and made the decision to cancel the test centers soon after,” he said. “This is the first known cancellation of an ACT test administration in an entire country.”
“ACT在6月10日周五收到可靠的泄题证据，不久后便决定撤销考试中心，”他说。“这是首次出现整个国家的ACT考试被撤销。”
News of the cancellation reached many students only hours before they were scheduled to take the test on Saturday morning. “Hotel expense, transportation fee, this is totally a disaster,” one frustrated Chinese student in Hong Kong wrote on Twitter.
很多学生收到考试取消的消息时，离他们原定于周六上午参加的考试只剩几个小时。“住宿费，交通费，简直是灾难，”一名在香港的中国学生懊恼地在Twitter上写道。
Overseas applications for the ACT and SAT exams are on the rise as more foreign students seek admission to American colleges. As more students take the tests, cheating on the exams has also become widespread in parts of Asia.
因为希望入读美国高校的外国学生增加，ACT和SAT考试的海外申请人数呈上升趋势。随着参加这些考试的学生增多，考试作弊在亚洲部分地区成了普遍现象。
In 2013, the College Board, which administers the SAT, canceled its test in South Korea after exam questions were leaked. It also canceled tests in China and Macau in January for the same reason. This month, a South Korean court fined students and officials of test-prep institutes up to 6 million won, or about $5,100, for selling stolen SAT test materials on the internet between 2011 and 2013.
2013年，负责管理SAT考试的美国大学委员会(College Board)在考题泄露后取消了在韩国的考试。今年1月，该委员会因为同样的原因取消了在中国内地和澳门的考试。本月，韩国一些学生和考试辅导机构的负责人因2011年到2013年期间在网上售卖外泄的SAT考题，被韩国一家法院处以罚款，最高金额为600万韩元，约合3.4万元人民币。