I’m one of those people who thought Airbnb would never work. I thought people would never rent out space in their homes to near strangers. But I was clearly wrong. Eleven million travelers have stayed in Airbnb destinations, according to data shared by the company. Roughly 550,000 homes are now being shared by hosts. Airbnb is more popular in Europe than it is even in the United States. Paris is the largest destination city.
有些人曾觉得Airbnb模式永远行不通，我就是其中之一。当时我想，没人会把自家房间出租给几乎陌生的人。但显然我错了。该公司提供的数据显示，迄今已经有1100万旅客在Airbnb的目的地停留过。房东们拿出来共享的家居住房目前约有55万处。Airbnb在欧洲甚至比在美国更受欢迎。巴黎是Airbnb上最大的目的地城市。
And Airbnb is only a piece of the peer-to-peer economy. People are renting out their cars to people they don’t know, dropping off their pets with people they don’t know, renting power tools to people they don’t know.
Airbnb仅仅是对等经济(peer-to-peer economy)的一个例子。人们已经开始把自己的私车租给陌生人，把自己的宠物寄放在陌生人处，把自己的电动工具出租给陌生人。
In retrospect, I underestimated the power of a few trends that make the peer-to-peer economy possible. First, I underestimated the effects of middle-class stagnation. With wages flat and families squeezed, many people have to return to the boardinghouse model of yesteryear. They have to rent out rooms to cover their mortgage or rent.
现在回想起来，我当时低估了几个趋势的力量，这些趋势让对等经济成为可能。首先，我低估了中产阶级窘境的影响。工资增长停滞，家庭经济吃紧，让很多人回归到了昔日的寄宿公寓模式。他们不得不出租一些房间，来支付抵押贷款或租金。
Second, I underestimated the power that liberal arts majors would have on the economy. Millions of people have finished college with a hunger for travel and local contact, but without much money. They would rather stay in spare rooms in residential neighborhoods than in homogenized hotels in commercial areas, especially if they get to have breakfast with the hosts in the morning.
第二，我低估了文科生对经济的影响。数以百万计大学毕业生手里没有太多钱，但却渴望外出旅行，并在那里有人照应。他们宁愿待在居民区空余的房间里，而不是商业区千篇一律的​​酒店里，特别是如果能与房东共进早餐的话。
And the big thing I underestimated was the transformation of social trust. In primitive economies, people traded mostly with members of their village and community. Trust was face to face. Then, in the mass economy we’ve been used to, people bought from large and stable corporate brands, whose behavior was made more reliable by government regulation.
我还低估了一件大事，即社会信任的转型。在原始经济中，人们大多是与同村、同社区的成员交易。当时的信任是面对面的。后来，在大众经济中，我们已经习惯了人们购买稳定的大企业大品牌产品；这些企业的行为受到政府监管，因此比较可靠。
But now there is a new trust calculus, powered by both social and economic forces. Socially, we have large numbers of people living loose unstructured lives, mostly in the 10 years after leaving college and in the 10 years after retirement.
但现在，一种新的信任机制出现了，它受到社会和经济力量的推动。从社会方面而言，很多人过着松散的、无组织的生活，主要是在离开大学后的10年内，以及退休后的10年内。
These people often live alone or with short-time roommates, outside big institutional structures, like universities, corporations or the settled living of family life. They become very fast and fluid in how they make social connections. They become accustomed to instant intimacy, or at least fast pseudo-intimacy. People are both hungrier for human contact and more tolerant of easy-come-easy-go fluid relationships.
这些人往往独居，或和短期室友一起居住；他们置身于大学、企业等大型机构和安定的家庭生活之外。他们在建立社会关系时已经非常快速和流畅。他们习惯了即时建立亲密关系，或者至少是迅速伪装出亲密感。人们一方面更加渴望接触其他人，一方面又对来得容易、去得轻松的流动关系更加宽容。
Economically, there are many more people working as freelancers. These people are more individualistic in how they earn money. They often don’t go to an office. They have traded dependence on big organizational systems for dependence on people they can talk to and negotiate arrangements with directly. They become accustomed to flexible ad-hoc arrangements.
从经济角度来看，像自由职业者那样工作的人增加了。这些人的赚钱方式更具个人主义色彩。他们通常不去办公室。他们对组织系统的依赖减少了，而对于那些可以直接与之交流、洽谈安排的人，他们的依赖却增加了。他们已经习惯了灵​​活的临时安排。
The result is a personalistic culture in which people have actively lost trust in big institutions. Strangers don’t seem especially risky by comparison. This is fertile ground for peer-to-peer commerce.
这造就了一种个人化的文化，在这种文化中，人们自发对大型机构失去了信任。相比之下，陌生人倒并不会显得特别危险。这为对等商务提供了沃土。
Companies like Airbnb establish trust through ratings mechanisms. Their clients are already adept at evaluating each other on the basis of each other’s Facebook pages. People in the Airbnb economy don’t have the option of trusting each other on the basis of institutional affiliations, so they do it on the basis of online signaling and peer evaluations. Online ratings follow you everywhere, so people have an incentive to act in ways that will buff their online reputation.
像Airbnb这样的公司，通过评分机制建立了信任。他们的用户已经相当擅长于通过彼此的Facebook页面来评估对方。对于Airbnb经济的参与者来说，“根据机构隶属关系来信任对方”这种选择是不存在的，所以他们根据网上信号和网友的评估来信任对方。网上评分会一直跟随着你，因此你就会有一种提高自己网上声誉的动力。
As companies like Airbnb, Lyft and Sidecar get more mature, they also spend more money policing their own marketplace. They hire teams to hunt out fraud. They screen suppliers. They look for bad apples who might ruin the experience.
随着Airbnb、Lyft和Sidecar这样的公司日益成熟，它们也把更多资金投入到维持交易集市的治安上。他们雇用人手来防止欺诈行为，并对供应方进行筛选，力图找出那些可能会危害服务体验的害群之马。