Time and again it’s the same. A lone gunman or a small group of killers with rifles commits spectacular crimes that seize the attention of the world.
相同的事情一再发生。一个孤身枪手或一小群杀手，手持步枪犯下惊人的罪行，引起全世界的关注。
The list reaches back decades: the killing of Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics in 1972; the school takeover in Beslan, Russia, in 2004; the attacks in Mumbai, India, in 2008; the mall assault in Nairobi, Kenya, in 2013; the killing of more than 100 people in Paris in 2015.
这份清单可以追溯到几十年前：1972年慕尼黑奥运会上杀害以色列运动员事件；2004年俄罗斯别斯兰劫持学校事件；2008年印度孟买袭击事件；2013年肯尼亚内罗毕商场袭击事件；2015年导致100多人丧生的巴黎事件。
Often the rifles are variants of the AK-47, the world’s most abundant firearm, an affordable and simple-to-use assault rifle of Soviet lineage that allows a few people to kill scores and menace hundreds, and fight head-to-head against modern soldiers and police forces.
他们使用的步枪一般是AK-47的各种变种，这是世界上数量最多的枪支，一款有着苏联血统、廉价易用的突击步枪，可以让几个人杀害数十人，威胁数百人，并能同现代化装备的士兵和警察正面交锋。
In recent years they have also been descendants of the AR-15, the U.S. military’s response to the Kalashnikov’s spread. Semi-automatic versions of the AR-15 were used by sympathizers of the Islamic State in San Bernardino, California, in 2015, and a Mini-14 and an MCX, rifles that fire the same cartridge as the AR-15 and compete with it for market share, were used in the mass shootings in Norway in 2011 and in Orlando, Florida, in June.
为了应对这种卡拉什尼科夫系列步枪(Kalashnikov)的普及，美军推出了AR-15。近年来，恐怖分子也开始使用AR-15的后代。2015年，在加利福尼亚的圣贝纳迪诺，伊斯兰国的支持者使用的就是半自动AR-15步枪；2011年挪威大规模枪击案中，凶手使用的是一把Mini-14以及一把MCX，这两种步枪都同AR-15使用同样的子弹，是市场上AR-15的竞争对手。6月在佛罗里达州奥兰多的枪击案中，凶手也使用了Mini-14和MCX。
In the hands of terrorists, military-style rifles have repeatedly been used for swiftly killing on a large scale. How did the Kalashnikov — a disruptive technology that flooded the world almost three generations ago and still retains an outsize role in organized violence — become such a ready amplifier of evil and rage? In what ways did it drive the AR-15 and its competitors to such prominence, too?
在恐怖分子手中，军用步枪一再被用来大规模地迅速杀人。卡拉什尼科夫枪械这种几乎是三代人之前传遍全球的颠覆性技术，今天仍然在有组织的暴力活动中扮演着重大角色。它是如何成为这样一种便捷的工具，成为邪恶与愤怒的扩大器的？它又是怎样推动AR-15及其他竞争者不断进化、跻身主流的？
A Cold War Product
冷战产物
The answers reach to the years immediately after World War II, when the Soviet Union was developing multiple weapons for multiple roles. As scientists worked on nuclear arms that would freeze borders under the fear of total war, gunsmiths and engineers set out in a contest to design a conventional weapon — a rifle — that would combine the rapid-fire ferocity of machine guns with the portability of lighter-weight arms. The weapon was to be a conceptual copy of Nazi Germany’s sturmgewehr.
答案要追溯到二战刚刚结束的时候。当时，苏联正在开发多种武器，发挥不同的作用。科学家在研制核武器，让国家之间出于对全面战争的恐惧而紧锁边境；与此同时，枪械师和工程师们竞相设计一种常规武器，一种步枪，能把机关枪高速射击的威力和轻武器的便携性结合起来。这将是一种在概念上仿照纳粹德国突击步枪的新武器。
In evaluations that followed, Senior Sgt. Mikhail T. Kalashnikov, a veteran of tank warfare, was credited with a prototype for a medium-powered rifle capable of automatic and semi-automatic fire.
在后来的评估中，坦克战老兵米哈伊尔·T·卡拉什尼科夫上士(Senior Sgt. Mikhail T. Kalashnikov)被认为是这种中等火力步枪原型的创造者，它可以自动亦可半自动发射。
The AK-47, with an effective range beyond the length of a pair of football fields, was accepted in 1947. A few years later, a lighter and easier-to-manufacture update, the AKM, entered mass production, and was on its way to becoming the standard rifle for almost all communist ground forces.
AK-47的有效射程超过两个橄榄球场的长度，于1947年投入使用。几年后，更轻、更容易制造的升级版AKM开始批量生产，将成为这个共产主义国家几乎所有地面部队的标准步枪配置。
Unpacking Its Appeal
魅力何在
The Kalashnikov line was shorter and lighter than traditional rifles, inexpensive to manufacture, built for durability and extraordinarily reliable. With few moving parts, and a design that made its disassembly and reassembly almost intuitive, its basics could be mastered in very little time.
和传统步枪相比，卡拉什尼科夫系列的步枪更短、更轻，它造价不高，耐用而且十分可靠。它没有多少活动部件，精巧的设计令人几乎可以凭本能完成拆卸和组装，使用者不必花什么时间就可掌握它的基本要领。
The cartridges were smaller than traditional rifle cartridges, which meant that a fighter with a Kalashnikov could carry more ammunition and be more deadly. Medium-power cartridges also meant the weapon had little recoil, allowing trainees to learn marksmanship with relative ease.
它的子弹比传统步枪的子弹要小，这意味着卡拉什尼科夫步枪的枪手可以携带更多弹药，更有杀伤力。中等火力的子弹也意味着枪械后坐力不大，初学者练习射击时会相对容易一些。
The Kalashnikov’s physical characteristics alone do not explain its prominence. The vast scale of rifle and ammunition manufacture in mammoth arms plants drove the Kalashnikov to its status as one of the most readily identifiable objects in the world.
卡拉什尼科夫步枪本身的物理特点还不足以解释它的统治地位。大型军工厂大批量生产这种步枪和弹药，令它成了世界上尽人皆知的物品之一。
Soviet production began in the 1940s before expanding to the vassal states of the Warsaw Pact and to North Korea, Yugoslavia and beyond. Tens of millions of the rifles were churned out in planned economies, whether they were needed or not.
苏联自20世纪40年代开始生产这种步枪，之后又扩展到《华沙条约》的仆从国，以及朝鲜和南斯拉夫等地。在计划经济体制下，数千万支步枪被源源不断地生产出来，不管需要不需要。
A constellation of ammunition plants ensured ready supplies. More state forces adopted the weapons and began cartridge production, too. In the 1970s the Soviet Army introduced a new model, the AK-74, which fired a smaller, faster cartridge. Millions of older Kalashnikovs became officially obsolete, freeing them for global trade. Taken together, a series of industrial decisions in planned economies had created conditions for near ubiquity.
一大批军火工厂保证了稳定的供应。更多国家的军队采用了这种武器，并开始自行生产弹药。20世纪70年代，苏联陆军引入了一种新型号：AK-74，它的子弹更小、更快。数百上千万老款的卡拉什尼科夫步枪被正式淘汰，流入国际市场。计划经济国家的一系列工业决定加在一起，为这种枪械的大普及创造了条件。
Guerrilla Warfare
游击战
The spread changed modern warfare. As communist governments passed Kalashnikovs to allies and proxies the rifles assumed an unexpected role: battlefield leveler.
卡拉什尼科夫步枪的普及改变了现代战争。随着共产主义政府把它提供给自己的盟友和代理人，这种步枪开始扮演一种始料未及的角色：把战场双方的实力拉平。
Vietnam offered the breakout. Africa had been colonized by small detachments of European soldiers turning machine guns against larger local forces that lacked access to equivalent weapons. In Vietnam, much of that advantage was gone. Guerrillas armed with Kalashnikovs fought toe-to-toe against foot soldiers of a superpower. Modern expeditionary units, facing automatic fire from inexpensive rifles carried by peasants, had met their close-quarters match. Often their ambitions were checked.
突破发生在越南。非洲曾被小股的欧洲小分队占领，他们用机关枪对付规模更大却没有同等武器的本地武装。在越南，这样的优势已经不见踪影。配备卡拉什尼科夫步枪的游击队员同超级大国的步兵正面交战。现代化远征军面对农民手中廉价步枪的自动火力，遇到了势均力敌的对手。远征军的野心一再受到阻挠。
The Kalashnikov’s superiority to the American M-14 in jungle warfare in Vietnam spurred Robert S. McNamara, the defense secretary at the time, to push the Pentagon to hurry production of a new U.S. assault rifle, the AR-15, which became known as the M-16. The decision would propel assault rifles to their current position as standard military firearms across the world.
在越南的丛林战争中，卡拉什尼科夫步枪相对美国M-14步枪的优势，促使当时的国防部长罗伯特·S·麦克纳马拉(Robert S. McNamara)敦促五角大楼加快制造新的美制突击步枪AR-15，后来被名为M-16。这个决定最终把突击步枪推到了今天的地位，成为全世界的标准军用枪支。
In Terrorists’ Hands
在恐怖分子手里
After its effectiveness was proved in Vietnam, the Kalashnikov assumed its indelible association as the terrorists’ choice.
效果在越南得到验证之后，卡拉什尼科夫步枪成了恐怖分子的选择，从此在人们脑海中形成了固定的联想。
Hostage-takers with Kalashnikovs scaled an Olympic Village fence in Munich in 1972 and seized members of the Israeli team. The rifle had broken its leash. It was no longer a tool of the state, or communist ideology. The era of Kalashnikov terrorism had begun, with the world watching live on TV.
1972年，人质挟持者带着卡拉什尼科夫步枪翻过了慕尼黑奥运村的围墙，劫持了以色列代表团成员。这种步枪已经失去控制。它不再是某个国家的工具，也不再是共产主义意识形态的工具。卡拉什尼科夫恐怖主义的时代开始了，全世界在电视上目睹了那一刻的实况转播。
The U.S. Response
美国的回应
Prone to jamming, the M-16 had a disastrous introduction in the Vietnam War. But most of its early flaws were worked out, and it secured its place in U.S. armories. From there, NATO standardization prompted Europe to field its own assault rifles, spreading this class of weapons across the non-communist world.
M-16容易卡住，应用于越南战争之后表现糟糕至极。但是后来，它的大多数早期问题都得到了解决，在美国的军备中稳居一席之地。随后，北约的标准化规定促使欧洲各国装备它们自己的突击步枪，这种规格的武器便开始在非共产主义国家传播。
The Kalashnikov had fueled an arms race. By the 1980s the AK-47 and the AR-15, and their many descendants — were a global pair.
卡拉什尼科夫步枪引发了一场军备竞赛。到了80年代，AK-47和AR-15，以及它们的许多后代，成了全球性的一对针尖麦芒。
American laws mostly limited civilian possession of AR-15s and their competitors to models that fire semi-automatically only. But as they gained popularity with veterans, gun-rights advocates, survivalists and, occasionally, criminals or terrorists, their place in crime grew — even as Kalashnikov production ebbed. AR-15 variants were used in mass killings in a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado, and at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, and by Islamic State sympathizers in San Bernardino. An MCX, a military rifle designed for Special Forces but available in semi-automatic form, was used in Orlando in June.
美国法律对平民持有AR-15及其竞争类型，一般限于允许仅可半自动发射的型号。但是，它们在退伍老兵、持枪权鼓吹者、保命论者当中越来越受欢迎，其拥趸有时还包括罪犯或恐怖分子；此类枪支在犯罪活动中也越来越频繁出现，尽管与此同时卡拉什尼科夫步枪的生产已经开始走下坡。科罗拉多州奥罗拉影院内的大规模枪击案、2012年桑迪·胡克小学的大规模枪击案，以及伊斯兰国的同情者在圣贝纳迪诺制造的枪击案中，凶手使用的都是AR-15的不同型号。6月，奥兰多枪击事件中，凶手使用的是MCX，一种为特种部队设计的军用步枪，但也有半自动版。
Semi-automatic Kalashnikovs are also part of the grim routine. The gunman who killed five schoolchildren in Stockton, California, used a Kalashnikov. His crime was an impetus for bans on assault-style weapons at the state and national level. The Army veteran who killed five police officers in Dallas in July used a semi-automatic Kalashnikov, too.
半自动卡拉什尼科夫步枪在枪击事件中也是屡见不鲜，令人沮丧。在加利福尼亚的斯托克顿枪杀了五个学生的枪手使用的是一把卡拉什尼科夫步枪。他的罪行刺激了加州，乃至全国开始禁止突击型武器。7月，一名退伍士兵枪杀五名警察一案中，枪手使用的也是半自动卡拉什尼科夫步枪。
Modern Conflicts
现代冲突
In the 1980s and 1990s, the market economy welcomed Stalin’s old goods. Successor governments continue to unload huge stockpiles, further flooding the world.
80年代和90年代，市场经济欢迎斯大林时代的旧货。共产主义国家的继任政府继续削减巨大的库存，让卡拉什尼科夫步枪进一步充斥世界。
Among the principal movers of Kalashnikovs has been the Pentagon, which bought them by untold thousands for proxy forces in Afghanistan and Iraq. The Pentagon also distributed tens of thousands of M-16s, and the shorter M-4 carbine based on the AR-15 design, to the same forces. Many of these forces failed, yielding their rifles to bazaars or foes, making ever more weapons available to dangerous hands.
卡拉什尼科夫步枪最大的买家之一就是五角大楼，他们的购买量成千上万，提供给阿富汗和伊朗的代理武装力量。五角大楼还向这些组织分发数万支M-16步枪，以及基于AR-15设计、枪身较短的M-4卡宾枪。这些武装力量很多都失败了，他们的步枪也流入当地集贸市场或落入敌人手中，让危险分子有了更充裕的武器来源。
Today the Kalashnikov and AR-15 variants remain the most commonly seen weapons on modern battlefields; their use is central to almost every war. They are a staple of insurgency and terrorism and all but fundamental to the grim routine of mass shootings. The Islamic State has killed far more people in Europe with bullets than with bombs, and controls territory in multiple countries in part through its military rifle stocks.
今天，卡拉什尼科夫和AR-15步枪的变种依然是现代战场上最常见的武器；它们的使用对几乎每场战争都至关重要。它们是叛乱和恐怖主义的必需品；它们几乎是大规模枪击事件的标配。伊斯兰国在欧洲用子弹杀死的人，远远多于用炸弹；他们在多个国家控制着许多领地，一定程度上也是通过其军用步枪储备。
Governments have done little to stop the spread of this class of weapons. Often, as in the case of the United States, they have contributed to it. Acts of crime, terror and oppression with Kalashnikovs and AR-15 descendants, endured by civilians under withering fire, have been hard-wired into our times. There is no end in sight.
各国政府在控制这种武器的泛滥方面几乎无所作为，反而时常起到推动的作用，美国就是这样。借助卡拉什尼科夫和AR-15步枪的后续版本实施的犯罪、恐怖和压迫行动，已经成为我们这个时代的固有之物，把平民百姓置于枪林弹雨之下。这一切还没有结束的迹象。