HONG KONG — As President Obama and other heads of government arrived in Beijing on Monday for the 21-economy Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting, China unveiled a series of economic measures aimed at tying the region more firmly to itself — and potentially weakening Asia’s ties to the United States.
香港——在美国总统奥巴马和其他国家的政府首脑周一抵达北京，准备参加由21个经济体组成的亚太经合组织(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation)的峰会之际，中国推出了一系列经济方面的举措。这些措施旨在让该地区与中国自身更紧密地联系在一起，但却有可能削弱亚洲与美国的关系。
China and South Korea concluded a wide-ranging trade agreement on Monday, deepening a trade relationship that has already become South Korea’s largest, surpassing its commerce with the United States. Top officials from Australia, which also trades more with China now than with the United States, announced that they were on the verge of their own trade agreement with Beijing and could finish a deal in the next few days.
周一，中国和韩国达成了一份内容广泛的贸易协定，令两国贸易关系进一步加深。在此之前，中国已经取代美国成为韩国最大的贸易伙伴。澳大利亚的高级官员称，该国也即将与北京达成贸易协定，未来几天就能敲定。中国与澳大利亚的贸易额也超过了美澳之间的贸易额。
China’s central bank unexpectedly pushed up the value of the country’s currency, the renminbi, on Monday morning in the sharpest single-day move in more than four years, making goods from other Asian nations, as well as from the United States, more competitive in the Chinese market. And Chinese securities regulators announced on Monday morning that they would begin allowing investors in Shanghai and Hong Kong to trade shares on each other’s stock markets on Nov. 17, a step that could strengthen both cities’ roles as financial centers in Asia.
周一上午，中国央行出人意料地推高了人民币汇率，使其出现了四年多以来的最大单日涨幅，进而提高了来自亚洲其他国家以及美国的商品在中国市场上的竞争力。中国证券监管机构也于周一上午宣布，将允许上海和香港的投资者从11月17日开始交易对方市场的股票。此举或将巩固这两座城市作为亚洲金融中心的地位。
Coming after President Xi Jinping announced on Sunday a $40 billion Silk Road fund to invest in infrastructure and natural resources development in China’s neighbors, the initiatives on Monday amounted to a comprehensive vision for binding economies in the region more firmly to China, already the biggest trading partner for many Asian nations.
此前一天，习近平宣布中国将出资400亿美元设立丝路基金，用以投资邻国的基础设施建设和自然资源开发。周一推出的种种举措则共同勾勒出了中国对未来的愿景：该地区经济体应与中国更加紧密地联系在一起。中国目前已经是许多亚洲国家最大的贸易伙伴。
“It’s a real attempt to exert leadership and to project a responsible image in wanting to lead the whole of Asia — they’re all very much linked politically,” said Patrick Low, who was the chief economist of the World Trade Organization for many years and is now the vice president for research at the Fung Global Institute, a nonprofit research group in Hong Kong.
“这是一种严肃的尝试，是为了发挥领导力，并且塑造一个负责任的形象，从而成为整个亚洲的领袖——这些举措在政治上环环相扣，”曾长年在世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)担任首席经济学家的罗柏年(Patrick Low)说。他目前是香港非营利研究机构经纶国际经济研究院(Fung Global Institute)的学术研究副总裁。
China already accounts for 21 percent of South Korea’s two-way trade and 23 percent of Australia’s two-way trade, making it the largest trading partner for both of them.
中国在韩国的双向贸易中的占比已经达到21%，在澳大利亚的双向贸易中的比重则为23%，是这两个国家最大的贸易伙伴。
China also tried to rally support over the weekend for its vision of a trade agreement that would encompass all of Asia and the Pacific. American officials have been pushing a narrower agreement, called the Trans-Pacific Partnership, that would include only 12 countries — China not among them.
周末期间，中国还试图为自己设想的一个囊括整个亚太地区的贸易协定赢得支持。美国官员一直在推动一个范围较小的协定——跨太平洋伙伴关系(Trans-Pacific Partnership)——它只涵盖12个国家，而中国不在其中。
The American plan would require each country to open even some of its most fiercely protected markets to foreign goods and services, which could produce a surge in trade. China has been vague on the details of a broader pact, saying that an initial study should be done over the next two years. But most economists expect that a Chinese-led deal would be much more modest in terms of letting each country continue to protect some industries from imports.
美国提出的方案将要求各参与方向外国商品和服务开放受到最严密保护的一些市场领域。此举有可能促进贸易额激增。中国对于己方提出的大范围协定的详细内容一直含糊其辞，仅称应在未来两年里进行初步调研。不过，多数经济学家预计，在允许各国继续保护部分行业免受进口冲击上，中国牵头的协议会温和得多。
Many of China’s neighbors are already watching cautiously the rise of its economic muscle, but few other than the United States seem worried about it. President Ma Ying-jeou of Taiwan said in an interview last month that China was now the largest trading partner for 17 of its 23 neighbors, and added: “The present situation warrants our attention but does not call for excessive anxiety.”
许多邻国已在谨慎关注中国经济实力的崛起，但除了美国之外，几乎没有什么经济体对此感到担忧。台湾总统马英九上个月接受本报采访时称，中国大陆周边的23个国家当中，有17个都以它做为第一大贸易伙伴。他还表示：“以目前的情况而言，值得注意但不必过度紧张。”
Beijing’s ever bolder trade and currency initiatives coincide, however, with an increasingly harsh atmosphere within China for many foreign investors. Dozens of multinational companies have been raided this year and accused of misconduct, including monopolistic behavior, price collusion and bribery.
然而，北京出台更为积极的贸易和货币措施的同时，对于许多外国投资者来说，中国的环境却在变得越来越严苛。数十家跨国企业今年遭到突击搜查，并被指控有不当行为，包括垄断、串通定价和行贿。
Multinationals have argued that while they do not condone misbehavior in their Chinese units, many of the transgressions are common in the Chinese economy and less often punished when Chinese businesses, especially state-owned enterprises, do the same thing.
一些跨国企业表示，尽管他们不会容忍在中国的子公司从事不正当行为，但在中国的经济环境下，这些违规做法中有不少颇为普遍，而当中国企业，尤其是国有企业采取同样做法时，受到惩罚的可能性往往更小。
The timing of the sharp rise in the Chinese currency, just as President Obama arrived in Beijing for the APEC meeting, represented an olive branch of sorts not just to the United States, which has pressed for years for Beijing to allow a stronger Chinese currency, but also to other Asian heads of government arriving for the meeting.
奥巴马总统在北京参加APEC峰会之际，恰逢人民币大幅升值。这个时间点的选择似乎代表着中国正在伸出橄榄枝，不光冲着美国——华盛顿多年来一直要求北京允许人民币升值——还包括参加此次会议的其他亚洲各国的领导人。
China has emerged as the world’s second-largest economy after the United States. A stronger renminbi would help the exports of other economies in the Asia-Pacific region — although the benefits may be limited for countries like Australia that export mostly commodities like iron ore, which is priced in United States dollars.
目前，中国已成为世界第二大经济体，仅次于美国。人民币购买力变强也将给亚太地区其他经济体的出口带来帮助——虽然对于澳大利亚等国家而言，好处可能比较有限。澳大利亚出口的主要是铁矿石等用美元计价的大宗商品。
China’s renminbi strengthened on Monday after the People’s Bank of China raised its morning fix of the currency’s value by 0.37 percent, to 6.1377 renminbi to the dollar. It was the largest single-day increase in the renminbi’s value since June 22, 2010, when the renminbi jumped 0.43 percent after the government scrapped an informal peg to the dollar that had been put in place during the global financial crisis.
周一，中国人民银行把上午公布的人民币中间价提高了0.37%，调整为1美元兑换6.1377元人民币。这是自2010年6月22日以来，人民币币值单日增幅最大的一次。当天，因为中国政府取消了在国际金融危机时期实施的对美元的非正式固定汇率政策，人民币大幅飙升了0.43%。
The timing of the currency move showed a clear political agenda, as many Asian leaders want to expand exports to China, said Li Kui-wai, an economist at the City University of Hong Kong who is a former director of the university’s APEC Studies Center.
曾担任香港城市大学APEC研究中心主任的该校经济学者李巨威(Li Kui-Wai)认为，此次人民币升值的时机体现了一个明确的政治议程。
“It’s a giveaway at APEC, in the sense that China wants good relations moneywise with other APEC members,” Mr. Li said. “In the long run, it’s not much — it’s a gesture, they can give away a bit to please other APEC members.”
“这是APEC期间的一个赠品，意味着中国希望在货币政策方面与其他APEC成员国保持良好关系，”李巨威说。“长期来看，这并不慷慨——就是一种姿态，表示他们可以为了取悦其他APEC成员国而放弃一些自身利益。”
The unexpected increase comes after China announced on Saturday a near-record trade surplus for October of $45.4 billion.
人民币的升值有些出人意料。此前，中国于周六宣布10月的贸易顺差达到接近历史最高水平的454亿美元。
Chinese exporters have long lobbied for a weak currency to make their products more competitive in foreign markets, helping China capture an ever rising share of global trade, while warning that a stronger renminbi could lead to job losses at export factories. “If this appreciation in the renminbi continues, it will certainly have a negative impact on our business,” said Abby Lin, a sales executive at the Zhejiang Cobo Technology Development Company, a maker of shower stalls in Huzhou, China.
中国出口商一直在为保持人民币的疲软而进行游说，以便让他们的产品在外国市场更具竞争力，从而帮助中国不断增加在国际贸易中所占的比重。他们还警告，倘若人民币走强，可能会导致出口工厂的员工丢掉饭碗。在位于湖州的卫浴产品生产商浙江康博科技发展有限公司任销售主管的阿比·林(Abby Lin)说，“如果人民币继续涨下去，我们的业务肯定会受影响。”
Regulators in Hong Kong and mainland China separately announced that both the Hong Kong and Shanghai exchanges would begin a securities trading link next Monday, in what has been considered the boldest move yet by the Chinese government to open its equity markets to international investors.
同样在周一，香港和中国内地的监管机构分别宣布，香港和上海的交易所将从下周一开始在证券交易方面建立联系。此举被认为是中国政府在向国际投资者开放股市的问题上迄今做出的最大胆的尝试。
The linkup, called the Stock Connect, will allow foreign investors to trade stocks listed on the Shanghai stock exchange directly for the first time. Mainland investors will be able to trade the shares of companies listed in Hong Kong.
这次股市联通被称作“沪港通”。它将允许外国投资者直接对在上海证券交易所上市的股票进行交易。这是有史以来的第一次。内地投资者也将能对在香港上市的公司股票进行交易。
“The launch of the H.K.-Shanghai Connect program is a milestone in the evolution of China’s financial sector and the opening of its capital markets,” said Shane Gunther, a head of equities at UBS, adding that it would give investors access to a market in China that is worth $3.9 trillion.
“沪港通的启动，是中国金融领域成长和资本市场开放过程中的一个里程碑，”瑞银(UBS)证券部门的负责人沙恩·冈瑟(Shane Gunther)说。他还表示，投资者将有机会进入价值3.9万亿美元的中国股市。
The news gave a lift to stocks in Shanghai, where the Shanghai composite index rose 2.3 percent, and in Hong Kong, where the Hang Seng index gained 0.8 percent.
这条消息给上海的股市注入了活力。上证综指上扬了2.3%，而香港恒生指数上涨了0.8%。
The various moves on Monday reflected not only China’s willingness to liberalize its markets, but also a practical need on the part of the government. With near record trade surpluses continuing to bring a torrent of dollars into the country, China’s leaders have been looking for a more productive approach than continuing to have the central bank buy huge sums of dollars and add them to its reserves through currency intervention.
周一推出的各种举措不仅反映了中国实现市场自由化的意愿，还体现了政府的实际需求。随着接近创纪录水平的贸易顺差使得美元不断涌入中国，中国领导人也一直在寻求一种更富实效的方式，而不是继续让央行购买巨额美元，然后再通过货币干预把它们增加到外汇储备中。