AT&T formally agreed Sunday to buy DirecTV for about $48 billion, striking a merger that will further reshape how Americans pay for television and connect to the Internet.
周日，美国电话电报公司(AT&T)正式同意斥资约480亿美元（约合3000亿元人民币）收购直播电视集团(DirecTV)，这笔交易将进一步改变美国人为电视付费和接入互联网的方式。
It will join a growing list of telecommunications giants looking to consolidate their industry, creating bigger national giants as they adapt to the shifts in broadband and video access.
在适应宽带和视频服务的种种变化的同时，越来越多的电信巨头正寻求行业整合，建立更大的全国性企业，而美国电话电报公司将加入它们的行列。
Already, Comcast has bid to solidify itself as one of the dominant high-speed Internet providers by seeking to buy Time Warner Cable for $45 billion. And Sprint, which is controlled by the Japanese telecom company SoftBank, has made no secret of its desire to merge with T-Mobile USA.
康卡斯特(Comcast)已经寻求以450亿美元收购时代华纳(Time Warner)，从而巩固自己作为一家主要高速互联网提供商的地位。而由日本电信公司软银(SoftBank)控股的Sprint，也已经表明对与T-Mobile美国公司合并的渴望。
Through the acquisition, AT&T will transform itself from a relatively small player in the sector to the second-biggest provider, coming in second only to Comcast. AT&T has about 5.7 million TV customers through its U-verse service, while the satellite TV operator has about 20.3 million customers in the United States.
这笔交易之后，美国电话电报公司将从该领域的一名相对较小的参与者，转变为仅次于康卡斯特的第二大提供商。美国电话电报公司凭借其U-verse服务拥有大约570万客户，而作为其收购目标的卫星电视运营商在美国则拥有2030万客户。
Under the agreement's terms, AT&T will pay $95 a share in stock and cash, roughly 10 percent higher than DirecTV's closing stock price Friday and about 30 percent higher than where its shares were trading before word of a potential transaction began to emerge.
根据协议，美国电话电报公司将用股票和现金支付每股95美元的价格，这比直播电视集团周五的收盘价溢价大约10%，比收购消息传出前的交易价格溢价大约30%。
Including the assumption of DirecTV's debt, the deal is valued at about $67.1 billion. Existing DirecTV shareholders would own about 15-16 percent of the combined company after closing, which is expected in a year's time.
包括直播电视集团的债务在内，这笔交易的规模大约在671亿美元。交易完成后，直播电视集团现有股东将拥有合并后公司15%到16%的股份，预计交易将在一年内完成。
The deal is the biggest in years for AT&T, which has long looked to acquisitions for growth. It is the largest transaction that the company has announced since its aborted $39 billion offer for T-Mobile three years ago, a takeover fiercely opposed by antitrust regulators because it would have cut down on the number of wireless phone service providers.
美国电话电报公司长期以来一直在寻求收购交易，以谋求扩张。这笔交易是该公司多年来最大的一笔交易，也是三年前以390亿美元收购T-Mobile的计划流产之后，该公司宣布的最大的交易。收购T-Mobile的计划遭到了反垄断监管机构的激烈反对，因为这将导致美国无线运营商数量的减少。
This time around, the company is likely to face less heat from the federal government. Regulators are considered likely to look favorably upon a deal that creates a bulwark against a strengthened Comcast.
如今，美国电话电报公司可能不会面对那么多来自联邦政府的压力。监管机构可能会积极地看待这笔交易，因为合并后的公司可以与实力增强的康卡斯特相抗衡。