NEW ORLEANS — In the four years since the blowout on the Deepwater Horizon oil rig killed 11 workers and sent millions of barrels of oil gushing into the Gulf of Mexico, BP has spent more than $28 billion on damage claims and cleanup costs, pleaded guilty to criminal charges and emerged a shrunken giant.
新奥尔良——四年前，“深水地平线”(Deepwater Horizon)石油钻井平台发生井喷事故，造成11名工人身亡，数以百万桶计的原油涌入墨西哥湾。自那之后，英国石油公司(BP)已经在赔偿损害、清理环境上花费了逾280亿美元，针对刑事指控认罪，其庞大规模也出现了缩减。
But through it all, the company has maintained that it was not chiefly responsible for the accident, and that its contractors in the operation, Halliburton and Transocean, should shoulder as much, if not more, of the blame.
但是BP一直都坚称，它不是这起事故的主要责任方，它在这个钻井活动中的承包商哈里伯顿(Halliburton)和越洋公司(Transocean)，应承担和它同样多的、甚至更多的责任。
On Thursday, a federal judge here for the first time bluntly rejected those arguments, finding that BP was indeed the primary culprit and that only it had acted with “conscious disregard of known risks.” He added that BP’s “conduct was reckless.”
本周四，新奥尔良的一位联邦法官首次直截了当地驳回了这些论点，称BP确实是这起事故的罪魁祸首，只有它在“无视已知风险，明知故犯”。他还说，BP的“行为很鲁莽”。
By finding that BP was, in legal parlance, grossly negligent in the disaster, and not merely negligent, United States District Court Judge Carl J. Barbier opened the possibility of $18 billion in new civil penalties for BP, nearly quadruple the maximum Clean Water Act penalty for simple negligence and far more than the $3.5 billion the company has set aside.
用法律术语来说，美国地方法院(United States District Court)法官卡尔·J·巴比尔(Carl J. Barbier)认为BP在这起灾难中不仅仅存在过失，而是存在重大过失，因此BP可能会被处以新的民事处罚罚金，最高可达180亿美元，几乎是《洁净水法案》(Clean Water Act)对于一般过失的最大罚款额的四倍，远远超过该公司拨备的35亿美元。
The ruling stands as a milestone in environmental law given that this was the biggest offshore oil spill in American history, legal experts said, and serves as a warning for the oil companies that continue to drill in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico, where high pressures and temperatures in the wells test the most modern drilling technologies.
法律专家说，这项裁决是环境法的一个里程碑，因为此次灾难是美国历史最大的海上石油泄漏事件，此外，对那些继续在墨西哥湾进行深海钻探作业的石油公司而言，这项裁决也会起到警示作用；墨西哥湾油井中的高温高压，对于最现代化的钻井技术也是一种考验。
“We are pleased,” United States Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said of the ruling. “The court’s finding will ensure that the company is held fully accountable for its recklessness.”
“我们很高兴，”司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H.Holder Jr.)说。“法院的裁决将确保该公司为其鲁莽行为承担全部责任。”
The decision also casts a cloud over BP’s future. Its reputation has already been sullied and important holdings in Russia are at risk because of tensions in Ukraine. In addition to the $28 billion in claim payments and cleanup costs it has paid, BP has been forced to divest itself of more than 10 percent of its oil and gas reserves, along with valuable pipelines and refining facilities to pay claims and increase its profitability. BP shares fell by nearly 6 percent Thursday, closing at $44.89.
这项裁决给BP的未来蒙上了阴影。该公司的声誉已经遭到损害，而且乌克兰的紧张局势，也给它在俄罗斯持有的大量资产增加了风险。除了已经支付280亿美元的索赔金额和清理费用之外，BP还被迫放弃了自己逾10%的石油和天然气储量，以及一些很有价值的管道和炼油设施，以支付索赔金额和提高盈利能力。本周四，BP股价下跌了近6%，收于44.89美元。
In a statement, BP said it “strongly disagrees with the decision” and would immediately appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. BP added that the ruling was “not supported by the evidence at trial,” and that “the law is clear that proving gross negligence is a very high bar that was not met in this case.”
BP发表了一份声明，表示“强烈地不同意这项裁决”，而且会立即上诉至美国联邦第五巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit)。BP说，“审判中的证据不支持”该裁决，并表示“法律上很清楚，要达到非常高的标准才能证明存在重大过失，本案并未达到那个标准。”
In a toughly worded 153-page decision, Judge Barbier reconstructed the timeline from the risky decision to drill more deeply before stopping to the hellish final minutes of hissing gas and raining mud, concluding with the deadly fireball that erupted on the night of April 20, 2010.
在一份153页长、措辞强硬的裁决书中，巴比尔法官重建了2010年4月20日晚上那场事故的时间表，从冒险决定钻探更深的地方，后来才停下来，到最后几分钟出现地狱般的场景：气体嘶嘶作响，泥浆如雨洒下，爆炸形成火球，导致人员伤亡。
In a central episode, Judge Barbier highlighted a phone call between a senior BP employee on the rig and an engineer in Houston that took place roughly 40 minutes before the explosion. In the call, the two men discussed the results of a pressure test that should have prompted quick action to prevent an impending blowout. BP did not mention this call in its own investigative report, an omission Judge Barbier found suspicious.
在一个中心环节中，巴比尔法官着重强调了爆炸发生前大约40分钟时，该钻井平台上一名资深BP员工和一名身在休斯顿的工程师之间通的一个电话。两人在通话中讨论了一个压力测试的结果，从这些结果来看，他们应迅速采取行动，防止即将发生的井喷。BP自己的调查报告并没有提及这通电话，巴比尔法官认为这种遗漏很可疑。
While acknowledging responsibility for the accident, BP had long argued that the blame should be fully shared with Transocean, the owner of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, and Halliburton, a contractor that oversaw a critical step in closing up the well.
虽然BP承认对这起事故负有责任，但长期以来，它都表示，越洋公司和哈里伯顿应该充分分担事故责任。越洋公司是“深水地平线”石油钻井平台的所有者，哈里伯顿是一个承包商，负责监督该油井关闭过程中的一个关键步骤。
While Judge Barbier did find the other companies had acted with negligence, he concluded that only BP, which leased the well and was in charge of the operation, was grossly negligent. He apportioned 67 percent of the blame for the spill to BP, 30 percent to Transocean and 3 percent to Halliburton.
虽然巴比尔法官确实发现了这些公司存在过失，但他的结论是，只有租用了该油井并负责钻探活动的BP，才存在严重过失。他对漏油事件的责任进行了如下分摊：67%的责任归BP，30%归越洋公司，3%归哈里伯顿。
“Transocean’s failures,” the judge wrote at one point, “largely concern its inability (due in part to further failures by BP) to stop the catastrophe BP set in motion.”
“越洋公司的问题，”该法官在裁决书上写道，“主要是它无力（这种无力部分上是BP的进一步问题导致的）阻止BP引发的灾难。”
BP has already pleaded guilty to manslaughter and other charges and agreed to pay $4 billion in federal criminal penalties. But the company’s ultimate civil liability is far from determined.
BP已经承认犯有过失杀人罪等罪名，并同意支付40亿美元的联邦刑事处罚金。但该公司的最终民事赔偿责任，还远远未有定论。
In 2012, BP reached a settlement with many of the individual and business plaintiffs but has battled in court over interpretations of that settlement ever since. Last month the company requested that the United States Supreme Court support its reading of the settlement after a federal appeals court rejected that argument in May.
2012年，BP与许多个人和企业原告达成了和解，但此后，它针对那次和解的解释在法庭上展开了斗争。上个月，该公司要求美国最高法院支持其对和解协议的解读，该要求在今年5月遭到了一个联邦上诉法院的驳回。
The leaders of a group of lawyers representing the damage claimants, James P. Roy and Stephen J. Herman, reacted to Thursday’s ruling in a statement, saying, “The court has now laid bare the full extent of the level of BP’s misconduct.”
詹姆斯·P·罗伊(James P. Roy)和斯蒂芬·J·赫尔曼(Stephen J. Herman)是代表受损方向BP索赔的律师的牵头者，对于本周四的裁决，他们发表了一份声明，说“法院已经彻底曝光了BP公司不当行为的严重程度。”
Officials from states along the gulf welcomed Thursday’s decision as ammunition for their own separate damage lawsuits.
墨西哥湾沿岸的各州官员对本周四的裁决表示欢迎，因为它可以作为他们自己独自发起损害诉讼的理由。