The website BuzzFeed dismissed one of its writers on Friday after finding 41 instances of “sentences or phrases copied word for word from other sites” among the 500 stories he had written, said the site’s editor in chief, Ben Smith.
BuzzFeed网站总编辑本·史密斯(Ben Smith)表示，网站上周五开除了一名撰稿人，因为发现他写的500篇文章中，有41处“句子和词组是从其他网站复制粘贴的”。
The writer, Benny Johnson, 28, was the site’s viral politics editor and specialized in list-based articles about political news with headlines like “24 Delightful Inauguration Firsts.”
这名撰稿人名叫本尼·约翰逊(Benny Johnson)，28岁，是该网站的热门政治文章编辑，专门撰写盘点式的政治新闻，比如《就职仪式中24个愉快的第一次》。
“Starting this Wednesday,” Mr. Smith wrote in an apology posted on the site, “Twitter users began pointing out instances in which a BuzzFeed writer, Benny Johnson, had lifted phrases and sentences from other websites.” When Mr. Johnson’s work was initially questioned, Mr. Smith stood by him. But after a review of his work, Mr. Smith said, “we had no choice other than letting him go.” The offending articles have been corrected and an editor’s note has been added to each, Mr. Smith said.
史密斯写了一份致歉信，贴在该网站上，信中说:“Twitter用户从周三开始，陆续指出了BuzzFeed撰稿人本尼·约翰逊从其他网站照搬的短语和句子。”约翰逊的文章最初遭到质疑时，史密斯还站在他那边。但在对他的文章进行了检查后，史密斯说，“我们别无选择，只能让他离开。”有问题的文章已经被修正，每一篇都添加了编者按，史密斯说。
BuzzFeed has tried to mix established journalists — it recently hired Chris Hamby, who won the Pulitzer Prize for investigative reporting this year for work he did with the Center for Public Integrity — with writers who specialize in the lists and other popular online material that account for the bulk of the site’s traffic.
BuzzFeed一直在试图对成名记者——最近聘用了克里斯·汉比(Chris Hamby)，此人写的公共诚信中心(Center for Public Integrity)文章还赢得了今年的普利策调查性报道奖——和那些专门写盘点文章等热门网上内容的撰稿人兼收并蓄，该网站的大部分流量都是热门网上内容吸引的。
When the site started seven years ago, Mr. Smith said, it was not held to traditional journalistic standards because it was not producing journalism. But it now has “scores of aggressive reporters around the United States and the world, holding the people we cover to high standards. We must — and we will — hold ourselves to the same high standards.”
该网站于七年前创办时，并没有坚持传统的新闻标准，因为它当时没有原创新闻，史密斯说。但它现在已经“在全美和世界各地拥有大批富有进取心的记者，我们用高标准要求报道对象。我们将会、也必须对自己坚持同样的高标准。”
Most of the examples of Mr. Johnson’s plagiarism seemed to be phrases copied from publications like U.S. News & World Report, The Hill and The Guardian. Some people used social media to note that Mr. Johnson had campaigned against others who plagiarized. “Repeat after me,” he wrote in a Twitter message this week, accusing another site of taking one of his stories. “Copying and pasting someone’s work is called ‘plagiarism.’ ”
约翰逊抄袭的内容大多数似乎来自《美国新闻与世界报道》(U.S. News & World Report)、《国会山报》(The Hill)和《卫报》(The Guardian)。有人在社交媒体上指出，约翰逊曾反对别人抄袭。上周，他在一条Twitter消息中指责其他网站擅自使用他的某篇文章，“请跟我重复，”他写道，“复制和粘贴别人的作品叫做‘抄袭’。”