Ever hear the old saying, “Information wants to be free?” Well, here’s a corollary for you: “TV wants to be à la carte.”
听过那句老话——“信息渴望自由”吗？我这里有一个引申：“电视渴望自由定制。”
Take the story of the iTunes store. The instant somebody offered the chance to buy songs individually, the world changed forever. Hello, music à la carte. Goodbye, Tower Records.
以iTunes商店的故事为例。在有人提供分别购买单首歌曲的瞬间，世界就永远地改变了。你好，照单点音乐；再见，淘儿唱片店(Tower Records)。
Now it’s cable TV’s turn.
现在轮到有线电视了。
We are engaged in a great civil movement, testing whether that business, or any business so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. The number of people who cut the cord, or cancel the satellite, in favor of getting all their TV from the Internet is still small — maybe 1 percent of us a year. But the online alternatives to cable TV are growing. And once it becomes simple and easy to get Internet video from our laptops and phones to the actual television, well, the term “TV drama” will have a whole new meaning.
我们正在参与一项伟大的公民运动，以考验这一行业，或者任何秉持了这一信念并为之奉献的行业能否永续长存（此处模仿了林肯《葛底斯堡演说》中的话。——译注）。能够剪断电视线，或者取消卫星电视服务，转而在互联网上观看所有电视节目的仍属少数，或许每年只占我们中的1%。但是有线电视的网络替代品正在增加。而且，一旦我们从笔记本电脑和手机上得到的网络视频，能够简单容易地转到真正的电视机上，那么，“电视剧”这个词将拥有一个全新的含义。
Actually, that has just happened. Google’s new Chromecast gizmo is the smallest, cheapest, simplest way yet to add Internet to your TV. It looks like a portly flash drive or maybe a fat keychain — and it costs $35. That’s not a typo.
实际上，这已经在发生了。谷歌的新装置Chromecast能够以最小、最便宜、最简单的方式把互联网连上你的电视。它看上去就像一个特大号的U盘或一个大号的钥匙链，售价35美元（约合214元人民币）。我没有打错。
So what does it do? If you have a Wi-Fi wireless network in your home, the Chromecast can perform two useful stunts.
那么它能做什么呢？如果你家有Wi-Fi无线网络，Chromecast就可以施展两招实用的特技。
Stunt 1: It lets you watch videos from YouTube, Netflix and Google Play (Google’s movie and TV store for Android gadgets) on your big screen. You use your phone or tablet (Apple or Android) as a remote control.
特技1：让你可以在大屏幕上观看YouTube、Netflix和Google Play（谷歌针对Android系统设备推出的电影和电视商店）的视频。你把你的手机或平板电脑（苹果[Apple]或Android系统）作为遥控器。
Stunt 2: The Chromecast displays Web sites on your TV — by broadcasting from Google’s Chrome browser on your Mac or PC. More on this in a moment.
特技2：Chromecast能在你的电视上显示网站，这要通过你的Mac或PC上的Chrome浏览器把页面发送到电视上。稍后再详谈这一点。
Google’s promotional videos depict a fantasy of effortlessness: a hand slides the Chromecast into an HDMI jack on the back of a big-screen TV, clicking like a key into a lock. And then suddenly everything good on the Internet seems to be watchable on that TV, to the ecstasy of many young, attractive, multiethnic couch potatoes.
谷歌的推广视频描绘了一幅轻松自如的美景：一只手把Chromecast插入一台大屏幕电视后面的HDMI接口，就像钥匙插入锁孔那样发出咔嗒声。接下来，那些互联网上的所有好东西突然就能够在电视上观看了，让许多年轻、 漂亮、不同民族的沙发土豆们欣喜若狂。
The videos leave out the fact that the Chromecast requires power. You can plug it into a power outlet or a USB jack on the TV itself, but either way, the result isn’t as clutter-free as the ads make it seem. Still — $35, remember?
这些视频没有提到Chromecast需要电力。你可以把它插入电源插座或电视上的USB接口，但怎么做，结果都不会像广告上看到的那样容易。可是——35美元，记得吗？
Then you download a setup program, introduce it to your Wi-Fi network, name your Chromecast and so on. The whole setup process takes about five minutes; a child could do it. (Adults may need slightly longer.)
随后你下载一个安装程序，把它连上你的Wi-Fi网络，然后进行给Chromecast命名等步骤。整个安装大约需要5分钟；孩子都能做到。（成人或许需要多一点时间。）
To perform Stunt 1, you open the YouTube, Netflix or Google Play app on your phone or tablet. Find a video to play. A special icon appears at the edge of the touch screen, resembling a rectangle with Wi-Fi signal waves in the corner. To begin watching that video on the TV, tap that icon and choose your Chromecast’s name.
想要实现特技1，你得在你的手机或平板电脑上打开YouTube、Netflix或Google Play应用。找到一段要播放的视频。一个特殊的图标会出现在触摸屏边缘，好像一个长方形，角上有Wi-Fi的信号波纹。想要开始在电视上看这段视频，就点击这一图标并选择你的Chromecast名称。
Your phone is not actually transmitting anything. The Chromecast gets the video from the Internet directly; you use your phone or tablet only to find the movie and control its playback. You can even adjust the volume using the physical volume keys on the side.
你的手机实际上并不会传输任何东西。Chromecast直接从互联网上获取视频；使用手机或平板电脑只是为了找到视频并控制其播放。你甚至可以用侧面的物理音量按键调节音量。
The good news: this arrangement means you can do other things on your phone or tablet during playback, like working in another app or even turning the thing off.
好消息是：这种安排意味着，播放期间你也可以用手机或平板电脑做其他事情，例如使用另一个应用，甚至把设备关闭。
The bad news is that the phone/tablet is the only remote control you’ve got. So if you want to pause, rewind or mute the video, you first have to find your phone/tablet, wake it up, enter the password if required, and finally reopen the app that’s doing the playing. It’s not especially graceful.
坏消息是这部手机或平板电脑是唯一的遥控器。如果你想让视频暂停、回放或静音，你首先必须找到你的手机或平板电脑，唤醒它，需要时输入密码，最后才能再次打开那个正在进行播放的应用。这就不是那么优雅了。
On Android gadgets, at least the Pause button appears right on the lock screen. You don’t have to unlock the device and reopen the app.
在Android设备上，至少暂停键就出现在锁定的屏幕上。你无须将设备解锁再打开那个应用。
Otherwise, all of this is effortless and excellent. Even if you can already get Netflix and YouTube on your TV because they’re built into the TV, Xbox, TiVo or Blu-ray player, you may prefer the Chromecast; it’s just much easier to search for videos, thanks to the on-screen keyboard and voice dictation. You can also cue up several videos to play in sequence. That’s especially handy for YouTube videos, which are not exactly, you know, epic in length.
除此之外，一切都很容易、很棒。即便你已经能够在你的电视机上接入Netflix和YouTube，因为这台电视上、Xbox、TiVo或蓝光播放器上都内置了这些程序，你可能还是会更乐于使用Chromecast；因为屏幕上的键盘和语音控制功能，搜索视频会容易得多。你还可以一次将几部视频排序后依次播放。这对YouTube视频来说特别方便，你知道，它们通常都不会很长。
On the other hand, Netflix and YouTube aren’t much. Rival boxes, like Apple TV and Roku, can bring many other paid and free Internet services to your TV, like iTunes video, Amazon Prime video, HBO Go, Hulu Plus, Vudu, Vimeo, Spotify, Flickr, ESPN, Major League Baseball TV and others.
另一方面来说，Netflix和YouTube实在也不算多。像Apple TV和Roku这些盒状的同类产品可为你的电视带来许多其他付费和免费的互联网服务，如iTunes视频、Amazon Prime视频、HBO Go、Hulu Plus、Vudu、Vimeo、Spotify、Flickr、ESPN和美国职业棒球大联盟电视(Major League Baseball TV)等等。
Fortunately, Google says that more services are on the way. For example, Pandora radio is up next. Hulu Plus, Vimeo, Redbox Instant, AOL and eight other companies have all suggested that they’re coming soon.
幸运的是，谷歌表示很快会推出更多服务。比如说，Pandora电台会是下一个。Hulu Plus、Vimeo、红盒子即时服务(Redbox Instant)、美国在线(AOL)和另外八家公司都已提出，它们会很快针对Chromecast推出服务。
Besides, you might not have to lose sleep over the wait, thanks to Stunt 2: the ability to broadcast Web pages to your TV from your Mac or PC.
此外，你也无需担心白白等待，多亏了特技2，Chromecast能够将你Mac电脑或个人电脑上的网页发布到电视上。
Just fire up the Chrome browser, open the site you want, and click that little Chromecast icon on the toolbar. The Web page now appears on the TV, complete with whatever videos you’d like to play.
只需启动Chrome浏览器，打开你需要的站点，点击工具栏中那个小小的Chromecast图标。那个页面现在就会出现在电视上，还有你想要播放的任何视频。
Now you can sit there on the couch, laptop before you, and call up any darned Internet service you want. Hulu your head off. MLB my guest. HBO Go crazy.
现在你可以坐在沙发上，笔记本电脑放在面前，调动任何你需要的互联网服务。尽情享受Hulu、美国职棒大联盟或是HBO Go的服务。
Hard though those Internet services have tried to keep their videos confined to computer screens, the Chromecast flings them onto the TV. An exception: Chromecast doesn’t like the QuickTime format. It sends only the video, not the audio. Therefore, you can’t play videos from, for example, Apple’s movie-trailer site.
虽然这些互联网服务公司一直非常努力地将它们的视频限制在电脑屏幕上，Chromecast却将它们送上了电视屏幕。一个例外：Chromecast不喜欢QuickTime格式。它只会传送视频，而没有音频。因此，比如说，你就不能从苹果的电影预告片网站上播放视频。
Stunt 2, alas, isn’t as refined or successful as Stunt 1. No wonder Google labels this feature “Beta.”
但是，特技2还是不如特技1完美或成功。难怪谷歌将这一功能标为“试用”(Beta)。
This time, you really are sending audio and video from your computer through the air. So it doesn’t work well unless you have a newish, high-horsepower computer and a fast, uncluttered Wi-Fi network. And even then, there’s a one-second lag between laptop and TV playback.
这一次，你真的是不连线将音频和视频从电脑上发送出来。所以，如果你没有一个比较新、高性能的电脑，和一个快速、无阻隔的Wi-Fi网络，它的表现就会差强人意。即便那样，在你的笔记本电脑和电视播放之间，还是会有一秒钟的延迟。
The video doesn’t always seem as crisp as it does during Stunt 1, either, and some people experience occasional stutters or audio glitches.
而且，视频也不会像使用特技1时那么流畅，一些人偶尔会发现播放出现时断时续，或音频故障。
Now, plenty of people are saying that Chromecast is Google’s answer to Apple TV, Roku 3 and Plair, which are compact plastic boxes that also bring hi-def Internet video to the TV — but cost $100.
现在，许多人在说，Chromecast是谷歌针对Apple TV、Roku 3和Plair推出的产品，这三种产品的外观是小塑料盒，也能将高清的网络视频传输到电视机上，但价格是100美元。
Truth is, the comparison isn’t quite apt. Those gadgets are a good deal more ambitious. They have their own remote controls and on-screen menus, so you can use them even if you don’t own a phone or computer. They use many more Internet services, too. The Apple TV can also display photos and videos from your iPhone or iPad.
事实是，这种比较不十分恰当。这几件装置的目标要高得多。它们都有自己的遥控器和屏显菜单，所以你即使没有电话和电脑，也还是可以使用。它们使用的互联网服务也要多得多。Apple TV还可以显示你iPhone或iPad上的照片和视频。
Apple TV can also project anything from your Mac screen, not just Web pages — a fact beloved by PowerPointers and teachers everywhere.
Apple TV还可以将你的Mac电脑屏幕投射到电视上，而不只是网页，这非常受各地经常使用PowerPoint的人和教师的喜爱。
But although most people miss it, so can the Chromecast.
但是虽然多数人没发现，Chromecast其实也可以做到。
In your Chrome browser, clicking the Chromecast icon produces a menu; within it, a tiny down-pointing triangle offers the command “Cast entire screen (experimental).” Sure enough: it broadcasts your entire Mac or PC screen to the TV, making it handy for board rooms, classrooms and hotel rooms. It may be experimental, and it doesn’t transmit audio, but it otherwise works beautifully.
在你的Chrome浏览器上，点击Chromecase图标就会出现一个菜单，一个向下的小三角提供了指令“投射整个屏幕（试验性功能）。”果然，它会将你Mac电脑或个人电脑的整个屏幕投射到电视上，这对会议室、教室和酒店房间来说非常方便。它也许是试验性的，也不会传输音频，但除此之外，它非常好用。
Of course, the Apple TV works primarily with Apple products. It doesn’t work with Windows and Android, at least not without add-on software (or iTunes for Windows) and a bit of tolerance. In that regard the Chromecast is a bit more flexible.
当然，Apple TV主要和苹果产品配套使用。它不适用Windows和Android系统，至少在不附加任何软件（或Windows版的iTunes）的情况下没法使用，也需要多一点耐心。从这一方面来说，Chromecast要灵活一点。
And for goodness’ sake, it’s $35.
而且，老天啊，它只要35美元。
That’s already a fine price for what this gadget does, and it will seem better and better the more video apps are made to work with it.
对于这件产品所具有的功能来说，这已经是一个非常好的价格了，而且当设计出更多视频应用与之配合以后，它会显得越来越物有所值。
Don’t look now, but there’s a corollary to the corollary. TV wants to be à la carte, but Internet video wants to be Chromecast.
不要现在下结论，但是这样的引申一定会带来另一个引申结果。电视机想要变得能自由定制，但网络视频想成为Chromecast。