Rates
价格水平：
Doubles start at $199.
双人房从199美元起。
Basics
背景简介：
­A cross between a style-conscious boutique and a pod hotel, citizenM, which operates six locations in Europe, opened its first United States outpost in Times Square in April. The trendy but affordable, limited-service hotel offers self-check-in at welcome kiosks in the art-filled double-height lobby staffed by friendly hosts. Each of its 230 double rooms are virtually identical and compact, helping keep costs down. To compensate for their size, public areas, including a buzzy lobby bar, a quieter mezzanine library and guests-only rooftop lounge, are spacious and inviting. In keeping with its high-tech concept — citizenM stands for “citizen mobility” — reservations are accepted only online, Wi-Fi is included and use of Apple computers in the library is free.
CitizenM是一个定位介于时尚精品酒店与胶囊酒店之间的连锁品牌，在欧洲已开设六家分店，而开业于2014年4月的纽约时报广场店，就是他们在美国的第一家分店。酒店装潢时髦但又价位适中，提供一些必要的服务。在其充满艺术气息的两层高酒店大堂里，客人可以通过自助终端办理入住手续。大堂里也有热情好客的工作人员提供服务。酒店的230间双人房都很小巧，并设计成了完全统一的风格，以便降低成本。为弥补客房空间狭小带来的不足，酒店的公共活动区十分宽敞、开放，包括一个热闹的大堂酒吧、一个相对安静的阁楼图书馆，以及一个只对店内房客开放的屋顶鸡尾酒吧。CitizenM是“Citizen Mobility”的缩写，所以为了贯彻其科技服务理念，酒店只接受在线预订，并提供免费的Wi-Fi上网。图书馆里还有苹果电脑可供免费使用。
Location
酒店位置：
­Though the tech concept is business-traveler-enticing, the Times Square location, between Broadway and Eighth Avenue on West 50th Street, is equally tourist- and theatergoer-friendly, with seven subway lines within four blocks. While none of the rooms overlook the ball-drop festivities, the hotel plans to hold a guests-only New Year’s Eve party at its rooftop Cloud Bar.
尽管科技服务的理念比较吸引商务人士，但由于酒店就在时报广场附近，位于百老汇大街与第8大道间的西50街上，并且附近四个街区内有多达七条地铁线通过，所以对观光游客和戏剧爱好者而言也是一个不错的选择。尽管从酒店房间里无法看到时报广场上大苹果掉落的新年庆祝场面，但是酒店会在顶层酒吧举办自己的跨年派对。
The Room
客房条件：
­As in a ship’s cabin, no space is wasted in the rooms. My room, 908, featured a wide king bed that ran wall to wall in front of a picture window facing surrounding skyscrapers. A sink and cabinet hugged one side of the entry hallway. On the other, a frosted-glass capsule enclosed the toilet and shower. The effect is smart rather than confining, and the bedside Samsung tablet that controlled everything from room lighting — with various moods from “romance” to “business” — made an entertaining toy. It also controls the flat-screen TV and allows you to select video art projected in a frame on the otherwise unadorned walls. In the guest room corridor, bits of international wisdom stencil the walls with advice like “Don’t buy a pig in a bag” from Finland.
客房里的空间被充分利用，就像在船舱中一样。我所住的908房有一张大双人床，床的左右两侧都靠墙。透过床头的大窗，可以看到外面环绕的摩天大楼。一进门的过道一侧，有一个洗脸池和一组壁柜，另一侧是一间用毛玻璃围出的胶囊型浴室及洗手间。这样布局不但不会显得局促，反而更有设计感。床头摆放的那台三星平板电脑，从室内灯光到电器都可操控，是个颇有趣的玩物。你可以尝试“浪漫”、“商务”等多种灯光效果；还可以操作挂在墙上的平板电视，或是更换墙上电子画框里的影像艺术，使墙面不再单调。在通向客房的走廊里，可以在墙上看到来自世界各地的名言警句，例如芬兰人说的“没看清货前别给钱”(Don’t buy a pig in a bag)。
The Bathroom
浴室细节：
­Again, efficiency rules here, but the dimensions are ample, the shower head wide, and privacy is ensured by frosted-glass walls. In a nice touch, the hair products included two shampoos, a musky option and another brighter floral, custom designed by the Amsterdam-based perfumer Alessandro Gualtieri.
和客房一样，其中的浴室也奉行了效率至上的原则，并且做得更加细致。淋浴喷头很大，毛玻璃的四壁保证了隐私。酒店很贴心地准备了两种洗发水，一种麝香味，另一种是淡一点的花香，都是由阿姆斯特丹的调香师Alessandro Gualtieri专门为酒店设计的。
Dining
餐饮特色：
­While the hotel does not provide room service, the 24-hour lobby cafeteria, canteenM, improves on standard grab-and-go fare with hot items including frittatas and sausages on the breakfast buffet in addition to fresh baked goods and granola (breakfast $18 purchased in advance; $21 on site). Blackboard specials later in the day advertise sandwiches and salads. The lobby lounge, with one wall devoted to arty picture books, acts as both coffee and cocktail bar, while the rooftop option, limited to guests, offers exclusivity without snobbery.
酒店不提供客房服务，但大堂里的CanteenM咖啡厅24小时营业。早餐外带组合除了新鲜烘焙的面包和燕麦片外，还可从早餐自助里选择添加肉馅蛋饼和香肠这类热食（早餐预订价18美元，现场购买为21美元）。早餐时间过后，餐厅的黑板上就会发布特价三明治和沙拉。酒店大堂的咖啡厅同时也是鸡尾酒吧，有一整面墙的艺术类图册书籍。而楼顶酒吧仅服务于酒店房客，提供更多专享服务。
Amenities
配套设施：
­Like the rooms, the 19th-floor gym is trim, with cardio machines at floor-to-ceiling windows, and an outdoor yoga terrace. The 21-story hotel fulfills the website promise of “Absolutely no trouser presses, bellboys, or other tired old hotel clichés.” It could stand to employ one cliché: a concierge. Staffers were good at many lobby duties, from helping those baffled by self-check-in to making lattes, but were less reliable on basic directions and restaurant recommendations.
和客房一样，位于19层的健身房也很小巧，落地窗前有一台有氧运动机，还有一个户外瑜伽平台。这家21层的酒店实现了他们在网站上的保证：“绝对没有熨裤机、酒店侍者及其他老式酒店的传统服务”，不过要是增加那么一项也不错，那就是大堂接待员。大堂里的工作人员在各项服务上都很到位，比如帮助不会使用自助设备办理入住手续的客人，或是制作拿铁咖啡；但是他们对于指路或者推荐当地餐厅的事却不怎么在行。