WASHINGTON — And on the 132nd day, just after midnight, President Trump had at last delivered the nation to something approaching unity — in bewilderment, if nothing else.
华盛顿——在就职第132天，刚过午夜，特朗普总统终于使这个国家达成某种一致——让所有人都困惑不解，至少是这样。
The state of our union was … covfefe.
让我们走到一起的是……covfefe。
The trouble began, as it so often does, on Twitter, in the early minutes of Wednesday morning. Mr. Trump had something to say. Kind of.
一如既往，麻烦还是从Twitter上开始的，时间是周三凌晨刚过。特朗普有些话想说。差不多是这样。
“Despite the constant negative press covfefe,” the Twitter post began, at 12:06 a.m., from @realDonaldTrump, the irrepressible internal monologue of his presidency.
“尽管有持续不断的负面新闻covfefe，”这条由@realDonaldTrump账户于凌晨12点6分发布的推文这样开头，这是总统压抑不住的内心独白。
And that was that.
然后，就没了下文。
A minute passed. Then another. Then five.
一分钟过去。又一分钟。然后五分钟过去。
Surely he would delete the message.
他肯定会删掉这条信息。
Ten. Twenty. It was nearly 12:30 a.m.
10分钟。20分钟。快到12点半了。
Forty minutes. An hour. The questions mounted.
40分钟过去。一个小时过去。疑问不断增加。
Had the president’s lawyers, so eager to curb his stream-of-consciousness missives, tackled the commander in chief under the cover of night?
总统的律师们那么渴望限制他的意识流信息，他们有趁着夜色与这位三军统帅交涉吗？
Perhaps, some worried aloud, Mr. Trump had experienced a medical episode a quarter of the way through his 140 characters.
有人非常担心特朗普或许是在140字的推文写到四分之一时突发重病。
Or maybe he had simply gazed upon his work, paused and thought: “Yes. Nailed it.”
也有可能他只是盯着自己写的东西，停顿了一下，然后想：“嗯，搞定了。”
No one at the White House could immediately be reached for comment overnight.
时报在当晚没能立即联系到白宫的工作人员予以置评。
But by 1 a.m., the debate had effectively consumed Twitter — or at least a certain segment of insomniac Beltway types, often journalists and political operatives — ascending the list of trending topics. “Of course #covfefe is real word,” wrote @Diane_7A, recalling an invented tragedy once invoked by the Trump White House. “It was coined during the Bowling Green Massacre.”
至凌晨1点，相关争论已经占据了Twitter——至少在某一部分患失眠症的华盛顿特区人中是如此，他们一般是记者和政治操盘手——在热门话题列表上节节攀升。“#covfefe当然是一个真实的词，”@Diane_7A写道，此人忆起了一场虚构的、特朗普的白宫引发的悲剧。“它是在鲍林格林大屠杀(Bowling Green Massacre)期间被创造出来的。”
“What if this is it,” asked Emily Nussbaum, The New Yorker television critic, after just five minutes. “That is his final tweet & the rest of history stops.”
“会不会是这样呢，”刚过五分钟，《纽约客》(The New Yorker)电视评论员艾米莉·努斯鲍姆(Emily Nussbaum)便问道。“那是他最后一条推文，时间就此打住了。”
Some appeared to temper their whimsy as a more sobering news story dominated the medium: a huge explosion shaking Kabul, Afghanistan, leaving dozens dead or wounded.
随着一则更让人冷静的新闻报道占据媒体的注意力——阿富汗喀布尔发生大爆炸致数十人死伤，有些人似乎开始收敛自己的异想天开。
Yet the instinct to linger was powerful, for those who had glimpsed the initial post, even if they did not seem entirely sure why they were still awake.
然而，对于瞥见最初的推文的人而言，想要继续玩下去的冲动十分强大，尽管他们似乎都不完全确定自己当时为何还不睡。
“Covfefe,” said Tasneem Raja, a journalist, perhaps chafing at the growing communal giddiness. “There, I participated.”
“Covfefe，”记者塔斯尼姆·拉贾(Tasneem Raja)说道，或许是对不断加强的集体晕头转向有些不满。“好啦，我跟啦。”
Eventually, the jokes lurched into delirium. Twitter users held forth on the former F.B.I. director James Covfefe. They pledged to order a grande covfefe during their next Starbucks runs. They announced they had at last discovered what Bill Murray whispered to Scarlett Johansson at the end of “Lost in Translation.”
最终，这些笑话突然转向胡言乱语。Twitter用户把焦点集中在前联邦调查局(FBI)局长James Covfefe（真名叫James Comey——译注）上。他们发誓要在下次喝星巴克咖啡时点上一个大杯Covfefe。还宣称，他们终于知道了在影片《迷失东京》(Lost in Translation)中，比尔·默里(Bill Murray)对斯嘉丽·约翰逊(Scarlett Johansson)轻声说了些什么。
And as the hour wore on, stragglers turned their lonely eyes to the only account that could save them. “Help, @MerriamWebster,” pleaded Jessica Taylor, a reporter at NPR, one of several to make the request.
时间一小时一小时过去，落在最后的人把孤独的目光转向唯一能拯救他们的账户。“帮个忙吧，@MerriamWebster（韦氏词典——译注），”NPR的记者杰西卡·泰勒(Jessica Taylor)请求道，还有几人也提出了这个请求。
The dictionary obliged.
字典做出了回应。
“Wakes up. Checks Twitter. Uh...” it began. “Regrets checking Twitter. Goes back to bed.”
“醒过来。查看Twitter。呃……”它发布的信息开头写道。“后悔查看了Twitter。回去睡觉了。”
Just after 6 a.m., the president resurfaced, finally deleting the Twitter post and tapping out another.
刚过6点，总统又冒了出来，他终于删掉了那条推文，然后又发了另外一条。
“Who can figure out the true meaning of ‘covfefe’ ???” he wrote. “Enjoy!”
“谁能搞清楚‘covfefe’的真正含义？？？”他写道。“玩得开心！”
Little became clearer in daylight hours.
天亮的时候，情况也没能变得更清楚一点。
Consensus proved elusive — to say nothing of pronunciation guidelines — and the White House appeared disinclined to help. “The president and a small group of people know exactly what he meant,” Sean Spicer, the press secretary, told reporters flatly. He did not elaborate.
难以达成共识——更不用说这个词该怎么念——似乎白宫也拒绝提供帮助。“总统和一小群人完全明白他说的是什么，”白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)直截了当地告诉记者。他没有做进一步的解释。
But someone else had a theory — the American perhaps most attuned to the power of the president’s Twittering hand. “I thought it was a hidden message,” Hillary Clinton told a crowd in California, “to the Russians.”
但有人提出了另外一种说法——或许是对总统Twitter战术的威力最熟悉的人。“我认为它是一条隐藏的信息，”希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在加州对一群听众讲道，“是说给俄罗斯人听的。”