ST.-DENIS, France — With grit, determination and a remarkable spirit despite the loss of the team’s biggest star, Portugal upset France in the final of the European Championships here on Sunday to claim its first major soccer tournament trophy. The 1-0 victory at the Stade de France, on the strength of an extra-time goal by the substitute Éder, denied the French a dream finish to this monthlong event in a game many will believe they should have won with relative ease.
法国圣丹尼——虽然失去了球队里最大牌的明星，但凭借勇气、决心和超凡的士气，葡萄牙队仍然在周日的欧洲杯决赛中战胜了法国队，第一次在重大足球赛事中登上冠军领奖台。在法兰西体育场举行的这场比赛中，替补出场的埃德尔在加时赛中进球，帮助葡萄牙以1比0的比分击碎了法国人的美梦。很多人本认为法国队会相对轻松地取胜，在为期一个月的赛事里笑到最后。
The injury to Cristiano Ronaldo, however (he was taken off on a stretcher with an ailing left knee in the 24th minute ) did not have the impact that one might have expected. Instead of leaving the Portuguese exposed, the players dug in and managed a strong defensive performance that left the French flummoxed.
克里斯蒂亚诺·罗纳尔多（他的左膝盖受伤，第24分钟被担架抬下场）的受伤并没有带来人们以为的那种影响。葡萄牙队不但没有缺陷毕露，反而越战越勇，强大的防线让法国人狼狈不堪。
Éder’s goal seemed to come out of nowhere. Holding the ball in the attacking half, he pivoted toward the middle and, finding himself with a rare bit of space, fired a low, right-footed shot from 25 yards that seemed to momentarily freeze France’s goalkeeper, Hugo Lloris. Lloris dived to his right, but the ball sneaked inside the post.
埃德尔的射门看起来颇为出人意料。在对方半场盘带过程中，他转向中场，利用一个转瞬即逝的空挡，从25码外起右脚远射。法国门将乌戈·洛里斯似乎措手不及，向右鱼跃扑球，但球已从门柱内侧滑入。
At the final whistle, while the Portuguese celebrated, many of the French players looked stunned. In the end, there was only the letdown of falling just short.
终场哨响，葡萄牙人欢呼庆祝，很多法国球员显得不知所措。最终，只剩下功亏一篑带来的失望。
Ronaldo joined in the celebrations, albeit gingerly. He was injured in the eighth minute when Dimitri Payet clattered into him while poking away the ball (no foul was called). Ronaldo received treatment — both then and again a few minutes later — but was clearly hobbled. As he wrapped his captain’s armband around the arm of his teammate, Nani, Ronaldo wept.
克里斯蒂亚诺·罗纳尔多也参加了庆祝，尽管动作小心翼翼。他在第八分钟时因迪米特里·帕耶铲球冲撞（没有被判为犯规）而受伤。他当时在数分钟内接受了两次治疗——但明显脚有些跛。当罗纳尔多终于把自己的队长袖标裹在队友纳尼手臂上时，他哭泣了起来。
It could have been the end of Portugal’s night, as Ronaldo is at the heart of so much of Portugal’s planning. Yet the Portuguese were not cowed. The goalkeeper, Rui Patricio, was stout; Jose Fonte was sturdy at the back; and Nani seemed to sense the need for him to fill Ronaldo’s void, running with vigor and purpose.
这本来可能成为葡萄牙此战的终结，毕竟克里斯蒂亚诺·罗纳尔多是葡萄牙战术的重要核心。然而，葡萄牙人并未被吓倒。门将瑞·帕特里西奥坚不可摧；若泽·冯特在后防线上表现神勇；纳尼似乎感觉需要自己来填补罗纳尔多的空白，他的跑动充满了活力和决心。
The final was the 51st match of this expanded Euros, the first with 24 teams.
本次欧洲杯扩大了规模，首次有24支球队参加，决赛是其中第51场比赛。