The investment pitch for a new Texas hotel uses Donald Trump’s name and has professional-sounding bona fides. Focusing on the well-heeled Chinese, the deal promotes the “excellent location” of the $130 million Austin Mirabeau Trump Hotel and “the world’s leading developer,” the Trump Organization.
得克萨斯州一家新酒店的投资宣传使用了唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的名字，听上去专业、可信。这个瞄准有钱中国人的项目宣称，投资1.3亿美元（约合9亿元人民币）的奥斯汀米拉博特朗普酒店(Austin Mirabeau Trump Hotel)“地理位置优越”，并且特朗普集团(Trump Organization)是“全球领先的开发商”。
The project offers another enticement: a path to a green card in the United States. Chinese investors who put at least $500,000 into the hotel could get a visa as part of a government program intended to tap overseas money and create jobs in economically troubled American neighborhoods.
这个项目还有另外一个诱惑之处：一条通向美国绿卡的道路。对该酒店投资不少于50万美元的中国投资者可以拿到签证，这是一个政府计划的一部分，意在利用外国投资，在美国经济困难的地区创造就业机会。
On its surface, the pitch, detailed in a 16-page document distributed to Chinese investors in recent weeks, appears to be another example of Mr. Trump’s conflicting views on China and trade. Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate, has accused the country of stealing American jobs even though he has used its manufacturers for his line of clothing.
以16页的篇幅详细介绍项目情况的宣传材料，已于最近几周发放到了中国投资者手中。从表面上看，它是特朗普在中国和贸易问题上的观点前后矛盾的又一例证。身为共和党总统候选人的特朗普，指责中国抢走了美国的就业机会，但他自己的服装品牌就是在中国生产的。
But a closer look exposes the potential troubles with the controversial American visa initiative, called the EB-5 program, which has been marred by cases of fraud and doubts that it produces the desired economic results. The Austin project hasn’t been officially greenlighted, and there is little sign that either Mr. Trump or his organization is deeply involved.
然而，通过进一步观察，就会发现这个颇具争议的美国签证计划存在的潜在问题。这个名为EB-5的项目，已经因为多起造假丑闻，以及对它是否能产生预期经济效果的质疑而遭到了损害。奥斯汀的这个项目尚未正式获批，并且几乎没有迹象表明特朗普或特朗普集团和它有多大的关系。
The company named as the Trump Organization’s partner has zero value, according to the personal bankruptcy filing of its chief executive. And property records show a project with a different name, Waterloo Park Tower, is in the works for the site in Austin, which at the moment is home to a brick-oven pizzeria.
据其首席执行官的个人破产申请文件显示，那家被称为特朗普集团合作伙伴的公司资产为零。此外，地产记录显示，项目所在地正在筹建的是另一个叫滑铁卢公园大厦(Waterloo Park Tower)的项目。目前，那里是一家砖炉披萨店。
A Trump-linked project has tapped EB-5 money from China in the past, according to a Bloomberg article published in March that looked at a tower in Jersey City, N.J. While a spokeswoman for Trump Hotels didn’t outright deny any Trump involvement in the Austin project, she played down the organization’s connection.
彭博社(Bloomberg)在3月发表的一篇文章显示，之前已经有一个和特朗普有关的项目——位于新泽西州泽西城的一栋大楼通过EB-5计划利用了来自中国的资金。尽管特朗普酒店(Trump Hotels)的发言人未一口否认特朗普和奥斯汀那个项目有任何牵连，但她淡化了集团与它的关系。
“Our growth strategy is to expand the Trump Hotels portfolio by strategically developing and opening properties in both key U.S. and international locations,” said the spokeswoman, Jennifer Rodstrom. “While we do not have a definite project in Austin at this time, we remain interested in key U.S. cities and will continue to explore such opportunities accordingly.”
“我们的增长策略是通过战略性布局，同时在美国和国际关键地点开发和开放房地产，来扩大特朗普酒店的投资组合，”这位名叫珍妮弗·罗德斯托姆(Jennifer Rodstrom)的发言人说道。“尽管我们目前在奥斯汀没有明确的项目，但我们对美国的中心城市仍有兴趣，相应地我们也将继续探索这种机会。”
As American lawmakers consider renewing the EB-5 program, it faces criticism about how it has been managed. Regulators say the program has been used to swindle overseas investors, including those from China.
随着美国立法者考虑继续EB-5计划，它的管理方式备受指责。监管机构称，有人利用该计划欺诈海外投资者，包括来自中国的投资者。
One California couple raised $27 million from Chinese investors through the EB-5 program for cancer treatment centers that never got built, according to American securities regulators. In another case, two California residents raised about $20 million in Chinese money to build nursing care facilities but instead used investor funds for personal needs.
据美国证券监管机构介绍，加利福尼亚州的一对夫妇通过EB-5计划，以修建癌症治疗中心的名义从中国投资者那里筹集了2700万美元，但所谓的治疗中心根本没建起来。在另一起案件中，加利福尼亚州的两名居民以修建护理设施的名义从中国筹集了大约2000万美元，却将投资资金用于满足个人需求。
“U.S. investors and foreign nationals are being duped and left high and dry,” Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said at a February hearing about the program, adding that government officials will intensify scrutiny of EB-5 applications.
“美国投资者和外籍人士受到欺骗，孤立无援，”艾奥瓦州共和党参议员查尔斯·E·格拉斯利(Charles E. Grassley)在2月的一场有关该计划的听证会上说道，还表示政府官员将加强对EB-5申请的审查。
In China, much of the individual vetting is left to investors and to businesses that advise them on potential EB-5 programs.
在中国，个人甄别的工作主要留给了投资者和为他们提供潜在EB-5项目咨询的企业。
“Because I haven’t officially started promoting this project, I’m still in the process of investigating it, so I can’t say that I’m worried,” said Dong Xiaolin, head of Dacheng Education Group, a company in China’s northern province of Hebei that helps students find schools abroad, a process that can also involve trying to navigate the visa options.
“因为我还没有正式开始宣传这个项目，还在调查阶段，所以不能说我很担心，”中国北方省份河北省的达乘教育集团负责人董晓琳说。该公司的业务是帮助学生在国外找学校，这个过程也涉及找到合适的签证类型。
Ms. Dong said she planned to travel to Austin at the end of the year to evaluate it, and said she was not concerned when she heard details of the project. “The United States is a country that has rule of law, and is very rigorous in terms of these things,” Ms. Dong said.
董晓琳称她计划年底去奥斯汀考察该项目，并表示听到项目的细节后，她并不担心。“美国是一个法治国家，在这些事情上非常严格，”董晓琳说。
In recent days, a job posting on the website of The Beijinger, an English-language Beijing magazine, said it was looking for “a white American” to run an EB-5 center to raise funds for the Trump hotel in Austin. Many Chinese people believe that having a Caucasian person front a project gives it an air of prestige or veneer of credibility, giving rise to “rent a white face” businesses.
不久前，北京的英文杂志《Beijinger》的网站上出现了一则招聘广告，内容是招募一名“美籍白人”管理一个EB-5中心，为奥斯汀那家特朗普酒店筹集资金。很多中国人认为，让白人管理项目会给人一种很体面的感觉，让人觉得可信。“招聘白人”的业务便由此而来。
The proposed 33-story Mirabeau Trump hotel would seem to put their money a world away.
计划中33层高的米拉博特朗普酒店似乎会把他们的资金带到另一个世界。
According to an EB-5 fund-raising document, the $130 million hotel — at an address just blocks away from the Texas Capitol building — will offer 277 high-end rooms to business travelers as well as vacationers hoping to hit Austin’s Sixth Street party district. The project would use the Trump name and be operated by his firm. Its developers are seeking $40 million in funding from EB-5 investors, according to the document, which says construction will begin in the fourth quarter of this year.
一份EB-5资金筹集文件显示，投资1.3亿美元的该酒店距离得克萨斯州议会大厦仅几个街区，它将提供277间高端客房，面向商旅人士和希望体验奥斯汀第六街狂欢区的度假人士。该项目将使用特朗普的名字，并由他的公司负责运营。这份文件称，开发商正在争取通过EB-5投资者筹集4000万美元，并称项目将于今年第四季度开工。
The investment effort, the materials indicate, is being led by Kevin Rogers, an EB-5 fund-raiser in Dallas. The pitch cites his past projects for a Dallas call center, a Houston apartment complex and an International House of Pancakes restaurant.
相关材料显示，这项投资由达拉斯的EB-5筹资人凯文·罗杰斯(Kevin Rogers)负责。宣传材料还介绍了他以前的项目，包括达拉斯的一个客户服务中心、休斯顿的一个公寓大楼和一家国际煎饼屋餐厅(International House of Pancakes)。
The pitch shows Mr. Rogers posing with George W. Bush, the former president. In a letter included as part of the pitch, Mr. Rogers writes, “I look forward to meeting you and helping you realize your dreams.”
宣传册上印有罗杰斯与前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)合影的照片，还有罗杰斯写的一封信。他写道，“我期待和您见面，帮助您实现梦想。”
Mr. Rogers said, in an email, that he did not authorize any advertising for “a white American” for the Trump project. He did not respond to additional emails and phone calls for comment.
罗杰斯在一封电子邮件中表示，他并未授权为特朗普项目打广告招聘“一个美国白人”。之后，他再未回复请其置评的电子邮件和电话。
The document says Mr. Rogers is raising money for Global Management Resources L.L.C., or G.M.R., a developer that it says it is working with the Trump Organization on the hotel. G.M.R. has a 30-year history of developing hotels and built and sold two over the last two years, it said.
相关文件称罗杰斯正在为开发商全球管理资源有限责任公司（Global Management Resources L.L.C.，简称GMR）筹集资金，并称该公司是特朗普集团在该酒店项目上的合作方。文件称，GMR有30年的酒店开发经验，过去两年里已建成并出售了两家酒店。
G.M.R.’s records show its chief executive is Brett Norwich, a serial entrepreneur who invests in real estate in Texas and elsewhere. Mr. Norwich did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
GMR的记录显示，其首席执行官布雷特·诺威奇(Brett Norwich)是一个连续创业者，投资的房地产项目分布在得克萨斯州和其他地方。诺威奇未回复记者多次提出的置评请求。
In September, Mr. Norwich filed for personal bankruptcy protection in Chicago, listing more than $11 million in business-related debt. The filing said that G.M.R. had no assets of value and that his projects had failed over the last two years. “He is working on other projects but does not know when he will have income,” the bankruptcy filing says.
9月，诺威奇在芝加哥申请个人破产保护，列出了逾1100万美元的企业相关债务。申请文件称GMR没有有价值的资产，并称他过去两年里的项目都失败了。“他现在有其他项目，但还不知道什么时候能有收入，”破产申请文件说。
In a video on YouTube and on his website, Mr. Rogers said his firm watched out for fraud and played by the rules. Fraudsters, he said in the video, don’t last long.
在YouTube和个人网站上的一段视频中，罗杰斯说他的公司提防欺骗，遵纪守法。他在视频中说，骗子长久不了。
“ A developer who wants to defraud someone can “make up something wild and crazy” and get away with it if the EB-5 fund-raiser doesn’t do enough due diligence, he says. “But you won’t get away with it long. Because it fails.”
他说，如果EB-5筹资人不进行足够的尽职调查，想骗人的开发商“会编造出疯狂的项目”，从而得逞。“但你们不会长期逍遥法外，因为总有一天会失败。”