For years, the tech billionaire Pierre M. Omidyar has been experimenting with ways to promote serious journalism, searching for the proper media platform to support with the fortune he earned as the founder of eBay. He has made grants to independent media outlets in Africa and government watchdog groups in the United States. In a more direct effort, he created a news Web site in Hawaii, his home state.
多年以来, 科技界亿万富翁皮埃尔·M·奥米德亚(Pierre M. Omidyar)一直在尝试各种方法，以推广严肃新闻。作为电子商务网站eBay的创始人，他赚取了大笔财富，并用这些钱来寻找合适的媒体平台，他给非洲的独立媒体捐款，资助位于美国的政府监察团体。他甚至直接在他的家乡夏威夷州建立了个新闻网站。
Then last summer, The Washington Post came calling in its pursuit of a buyer. The Graham family ended up selling The Post to a different tech billionaire, Jeffrey P. Bezos of Amazon. But the experience, Mr. Omidyar wrote on his blog on Wednesday, “got me thinking about what kind of social impact could be created if a similar investment was made in something entirely new, built from the ground up.”
去年夏天，《华盛顿邮报》寻求买家时，就曾经联系过他。最后，东主格雷厄姆家族(Graham family)将《华盛顿邮报》卖给了另一位科技界亿万富翁，亚马逊公司的杰夫·P·贝索斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos of Amazon)。周三，奥米德亚在他的博客中写到，这段经历“让我深思，如果对于一家全新的，从头开始建设的媒体进行类似的投资，会带来怎样的社会影响。”
Mr. Omidyar also confirmed that he would be personally financing just such a new “mass media” venture, where he will be joined by the journalist Glenn Greenwald of The Guardian, the British daily. Mr. Greenwald gained notoriety this summer when he reported on the revelations about National Security Agency surveillance contained in papers leaked by Edward J. Snowden.
奥米德亚同时确认，他将完全由个人出资，建立这样一家全新的“大众媒体”公司。他将邀请英国日报《卫报》的新闻记者格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)加盟。今年夏天，格林沃尔德发布了关于美国国家安全局监控问题(National Security Agency surveillance)的报道，并因此名声大噪。相关信息源自爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的文件。
The details of the new media organization are vague at this point. “I don’t yet know how or when it will be rolled out, or what it will look like,” Mr. Omidyar wrote.
现在，这家新的媒体机构的细节还相当模糊。奥米德亚写到，“我现在也不清楚，这个网站将于何时，以何种方式面世。我也不清楚它到底是什么样子。”
What is clear is that Mr. Greenwald will be there, and he is expected to be joined by Laura Poitras, the documentary filmmaker who was the crucial conduit between Mr. Snowden and Mr. Greenwald.
但可肯定的是，格林沃尔将会加盟。跟他一道加入的还有纪录片导演劳拉·波伊特拉斯(Laura Poitras)，她一度曾是斯诺登和格林沃尔德的重要中间人。
Together, Mr. Greenwald and Ms. Poitras possess a vast trove of documents from Mr. Snowden related to government surveillance and other sensitive matters — meaning Mr. Omidyar and the venture will be in the middle of the debate between the government and news groups over how to balance free speech against national security concerns.
格林沃尔德和波伊特拉斯两人一道，拥有大量来自斯诺登的秘密文件。这些文件涉及政府监控和其他敏感问题——这就意味着，奥德米亚和这间新公司将会处于一场辩论的中心。政府和新闻机构一直在争论，应当怎样平衡言论自由和国家安全问题。
Mr. Greenwald has made clear that he has much more material from Mr. Snowden to go through and many articles yet to write.
格林沃尔德明确表示，他从斯诺登那里获得的资料比已公布的要多得多。等研究完毕之后，他还有更多文章要写。
Mr. Greenwald stressed in an interview Tuesday night that he would not be the editor or manager of the site, saying, “I will be doing the journalism.”
格林沃尔德在周二晚间的一次采访中强调，他不会担任这个新网站的编辑或者经理人。他说，“我将会继续做记者。”
Mr. Omidyar wrote on Wednesday that the project was something he “would be personally and directly involved in outside of my other efforts as a philanthropist.”
奥米德亚在周三写道，“他本人将直接参与”这个新项目，“作为慈善家，我的其他项目不受影响。”
Mr. Omidyar and Mr. Greenwald came together after developing a growing respect, aided by social media, that was built around shared causes like protection for journalists and a revulsion at government surveillance tactics.
通过社交媒体，奥米德亚和格林沃尔德发现，他们拥有保护新闻记者的共同目标，同时两人都对政府监控手段感到厌恶。在此基础上，两人逐渐建立起对彼此的敬重，并最终联手。
Mr. Omidyar — who declined an interview request but released a statement and spoke to the New York University journalism professor Jay Rosen — describes a happy coincidence: just as he was looking to start his project, Mr. Greenwald and Ms. Poitras, along with the reporter and author Jeremy Scahill, “were already on a path to create an online space to support independent journalists.”
奥米德亚拒绝了记者的采访要求，但是他发布了一则新闻稿，并且跟纽约大学新闻学教授杰伊·罗森(Jay Rosen)沟通过。按照奥米德亚所说的，这是一个不错的机遇：在他正准备启动这个项目时，格林沃尔德和波伊特拉斯，以及记者兼作家杰里米·斯卡希尔(Jeremy Scahill)“已经开始行动，想要创建一个在线空间来支持独立记者。”
“We had a lot of overlap in terms of our ideas, and decided to join forces,” he wrote.
他写道，“我们有很多共同的想法，所以才决定一起合作。”
Mr. Rosen, on his blog, outlined some of Mr. Omidyar’s thinking: while Mr. Greenwald, Ms. Poitras and Mr. Scahill have focused on national security and United States foreign policy, the new project will be of more general interest. Mr. Rosen, paraphrasing Mr. Omidyar, writes that the project would not be a niche product, and that it would cover sports, business, entertainment and technology.
在他的博客里，罗森描述了奥米德亚的思路：虽然格林沃尔德、波伊特拉斯和斯卡希尔一直把关注点放在国家安全和美国外交政策上，但是这个新项目的关注面更广泛。罗森引述奥米德亚的话写到，这个项目不是一个小众项目，它还将报道体育，商业，娱乐和科技。
When asked how large his financial commitment would be, Mr. Rosen writes, Mr. Omidyar referred to the $250 million it would have taken to buy The Post as a starting point.
有人询问奥米德亚的出资规模。罗森写到，奥米德亚提到了2.5亿美金的初始资金，这是当初购买《华盛顿邮报》的所要花费的金额。
Mr. Omidyar was born in Paris to Iranians, and was raised mostly around Washington. He created the original Internet software for eBay’s online sales system in 1995.
奥米德亚的父母均是伊朗人。他出生于巴黎，基本上在华盛顿长大。1995年，他为eBay的网络销售系统创制了最初的网络软件。 
The company became a runaway success that changed Mr. Omidyar’s life, even beyond the billions he eventually made in eBay stock. Creating a mostly unregulated commerce system where strangers could successfully transact with others taught him that “at the end of the day people are trying to do the right thing,” as he said to a gathering of nonprofit organizations in Hawaii in November 2011.
Ebay获得了巨大的成功，除了帮助奥德米亚在eBay股票上获取了超过数十亿美金的利益外，还改变了他的生活。他创建了这样一个基本上不加管制的商业体系，陌生人得以成功地相互交易。2011年11月，他在夏威夷的一场非盈利组织的集会上表示，他由此明白，“到头来，人们总是试着做对的事情。”
Mr. Omidyar, 45, is chairman of eBay, but for more than a decade has not been active in the day-to-day running of the organization.
奥米德亚现年45岁，担任eBay的董事长。但是在过去十多年里，他并没有积极参与公司的日常管理。
He decided to devote some of his fortune to philanthropy, but has said he was discouraged by traditional models, which he says can often reward bad outcomes. He named his major philanthropic organization the Omidyar Network to avoid connotations of being a charity, and has made many donations aimed at creating self-sustaining businesses.
他之前就决定，要把部分财富用于慈善事业，但他也说，他对传统的慈善模式感到失望，认为这些模式会对坏的结果作出奖赏。他将自己的主要慈善机构命名为“奥米德亚网络(Omidyar Network)”，就是为了听上去不那么像一个慈善组织。他之前做的很多捐助，目的就是为了创立一些能够自我维持下去的企业。
He has also sought to have an impact commensurate with what he feels his wealth can accomplish, one that his local news site, Honolulu Civil Beat, couldn’t satisfy. The new media venture apparently is the latest manifestation of his ambition to create a big, important media property.
他也在寻求影响力，认为这应该跟他的财富所能实现的影响力成正比。他自己的新闻网站，即火奴鲁鲁公民律动(Honolulu Civil Beat)，并不能让他感到满足。很明显，建立一家新的媒体项目正是他最新的动作，展现了他建立一家重要的大型媒体公司的雄心。
The Twitter streams of Mr. Omidyar and Mr. Greenwald show that they had been moving toward each other over the last year. Mr. Omidyar frequently reposts Twitter messages from Mr. Greenwald about shared concerns like protecting journalists from government prosecution. One Twitter conversation about the Snowden documents culminated with Mr. Omidyar writing to Mr. Greenwald, “you’ve been the most consistent and knowledgeable reporter on illegal (and now supposed legal) wiretapping since Bush disclosure.”
奥米德亚和格林沃尔德两人的过往推特帖子显示，他们在过去一年里越走越近。奥米德亚经常转发格林沃尔德发布的，涉及两人共同关心议题的帖子，例如保护新闻记者不受到政府指控。在一则关于斯诺登文件的推特对话中，奥米德亚对格林沃尔德的推崇达到了顶点，他写道，“从布什公布事件以来，在非法窃听（不过现在窃听应该被合法化了）方面，你一直都是最稳定，知识最渊博的记者。”