HONG KONG — A Chinese online finance company bilked investors for more than $7.6 billion, spent lavishly on gifts and salaries and buried the evidence, according to local authorities who described it as a massive Ponzi scheme.
香港——中国一家网络金融公司诈骗投资者资金500多亿人民币（约合76亿美元），把巨额金钱花在赠送他人和支付高工资上，还埋藏证据，正在调查这个当局称之为巨大庞氏骗局的当地警方说。
The accusations throw a shadow over China’s online finance industry, a lucrative area that has nurtured global leaders but that the authorities say also has been the scene of a growing number of frauds and flameouts.
这些指控让中国的网络金融行业蒙上阴影，尽管这一利润丰厚的行业已产生了全球领导者，但当局表示，行业中也出现了越来越多的欺诈案和昙花一现的公司。
Chinese officials say Ezubao, an erstwhile dynamo of the industry, offered mostly fake investment products to its nearly 1 million investors, according to China’s official Xinhua news agency. It said authorities had arrested 21 people in Anhui, the eastern Chinese province where Ezubao is based, and closed down some of the platform’s operations.
据中国官方的新华通讯社报道，中国官员说，昔日的行业主力e租宝，向其近100万的投资者提供的投资产品大多数是假的。报道称，当局已在中国东部省份安徽逮捕了21人，关闭了e租宝融资平台的一些操作，安徽是e租宝总部所在地。
“Ezubao is a Ponzi scheme,” Xinhua quoted Zhang Min, a former executive at the company, as saying. Company officials could not be reached for comment.
“‘e租宝’就是一个庞氏骗局，”新华社援引公司前总裁张敏的话说。无法联系到公司管理层对此发表评论。
A slew of Chinese companies has emerged in recent years to do for customers what the country’s state-owned banks will not. Chinese customers widely use their smartphones to buy groceries or transfer money, while new types of finances companies are offering loans to small businesses, students and others that state banks traditionally ignore.
近年来出现了一大批愿意为客户提供国有银行不提供的东西的中国公司。中国老百姓在广泛使用自己的智能手机购买日用品、或进行资金转帐，新型的金融公司在向小企业、学生以及其他被国有银行习惯性忽视的群体提供贷款。
Ezubao told investors it was a peer-to-peer lender, which matches investors with potential borrowers over the Internet. China’s growth in peer to peer, or P2P, lending has been strong, with Morgan Stanley estimating volumes last year totaled $33.2 billion, surpassing the United States. Morgan Stanley estimates the Chinese market is highly fragmented, with more than 1,500 such lending platforms.
e租宝告诉投资者，它是一家从事个人对个人借贷的公司，利用互联网为潜在的借款方与投资者搭桥。中国的个人对个人（简称P2P）借贷的增长势头一直很强劲，据摩根士丹利估计，去年的总借贷额已超过美国，达到332亿美元。摩根士丹利估计，中国的P2P借贷市场高度分散，有1500多个从事这类借贷的平台。
But cases of illegal fund-raising related to peer-to-peer lending have been growing quickly in the past two years, according to local authorities, and officials in December pledged to tighten regulation of the industry. Because of the enormous amounts of funds involved and the large investor base, the collapse of a major online-financing platform could raise concerns over confidence in the security of such investments.
但是，据地方政府说，与个人对个人借贷有关的非法集资案件也在过去两年中迅速增长，官员曾在去年12月承诺要加强对这个行业的监管。由于涉及的资金数额以及投资者人数巨大，一家主要的在线融资平台的崩溃，可能会引发人们对这类投资产品安全性信赖问题的担忧。
Ezubao has been under official scrutiny for weeks. In December, Xinhua said it was under investigation for suspected illegal business activities.
当局着手办理e租宝的案子已经好几周了。新华社说，去年12月，有关部门对公司的非法商业活动展开调查。
On Sunday, Xinhua said an investigation by local authorities found that most of the investment products being marketed by the company were fake. Some offered investors annual interest payments of as much as 15 percent.
新华社周日的报道说，地方当局的调查发现，公司大部分的投资产品都是假的。有些投资产品向投资者提供高达15％的年利率。
Instead, the platform, which was set up by Anhui’s Yucheng Group in of July 2014, was used to enrich the top executives that ran it, Xinhua said.
与投资相反，这个由安徽钰诚集团在2014年7月建立的平台，被公司的高层管理人员用来填饱私囊，新华社说。
That included more than 1 billion renminbi, or around $150 million, that Ding Ning, the chairman of Yucheng, allegedly spent on items and gifts including real estate, cars and luxury goods, according to the report.
据新华社报道，钰诚集团董事会执行局主席丁宁被指控花在赠送包括房地产、汽车和奢侈品等礼品上的钱就达十多亿人民币。
The report added that the salary paid to Ding’s brother, Ding Dian, was increased to 1 million renminbi per month, from 18,000 renminbi, while the company spent as much as 800 million renminbi for payroll in the month of November.
报道还说，公司发给丁宁的弟弟丁甸的工资，从每月1.8万元涨到每月100万元，公司去年11月花在工资上的开支高达8亿元。
Another executive in charge of risk management at a company affiliated with Yucheng Group said that more than 95 percent of the investment products marketed on the platform were fake, according to the report.
据新华社报道，在钰诚集团下属的一家公司负责风险控制的一位高管表示，公司在平台上兜售的投资产品中95％以上是假的。
The alleged fraudsters appeared to have gone to considerable lengths to conceal their ruse — literally attempting to bury it from scrutiny.
指控称，这些欺诈者们看来在隐瞒自己的诡计上费尽心机，为躲避调查试图埋葬证据，这不仅仅是个比方。
The Xinhua report said police suspects placed some 1,200 documents or other pieces of evidence related to the scheme in 80 bags and buried them six meters, or nearly 20 feet, underground at a site on the outskirts of Hefei, the capital city of Anhui province.
新华社的报道说，受警方怀疑的人将1200多册证据材料装进80多个袋子，并把袋子埋在安徽省省会城市合肥郊外某处6米深的地下。
The police had to deploy two excavators to the site, and it took them 20 hours to unearth the evidence, the report said. According to Xinhua, police described the case as “extremely difficult.”
报道说，警方动用了两台挖掘机，花了20多个小时，才把这些袋子挖出来。新华社称，警方对这个案子的描述是“难度极大”。