Not long ago, estrangements between family members, for all the anguish they can cause, could mean a fairly clean break. People would cut off contact, never to be heard from again unless they reconciled.
曾几何时，由于家庭破裂导致的创痛虽然深巨，但总会有一个算是干净的了断。家庭成员之间，尽可以切断彼此的联系，从此分道扬镳，除非他们又重归于好。
But in a social network world, estrangement is being redefined, with new complications. Relatives can get vivid glimpses of one another’s lives through Facebook updates, Twitter feeds and Instagram pictures of a grandchild or a wedding rehearsal dinner. And those glimpses are often painful reminders of what they have lost.
然而，在社交网络时代，这种家庭关系的破裂正被重新定义， 变得更加复杂。通过Facebook上的更新、Twitter上的动态以及图片分享软件 Instagram, 亲戚之间仍然可以互相窥见对方的生活：从小孩出生，到婚礼彩排，这些瞬间往往唤起他们痛苦的回忆，他们他们忆起那些已经失去了的东西。
“I frequently hear, ‘I heard from somebody else who read it on Facebook that my son just got married,’ or, ‘My daughter just had a child, and I didn’t even know she was pregnant,’ ” said Joshua Coleman, a psychologist in the Bay Area who wrote a book about estrangement, “When Parents Hurt.”
“我经常听到人们说：‘别人告诉我说他在Facebook上看到我儿子刚结婚了’，或者‘我女儿刚生了宝宝，但我连她怀孕了都不知道，’”旧金山湾区的心理学家乔舒亚·科尔曼(Joshua Coleman)说道。他写过一本名为《当父母受伤的时候》的书，讲述了父母与子女间的隔阂。
“There are things that parents assume all their lives they’d be there for, then they hear in a very public third-hand way about it, and it adds a layer of hurt and humiliation,” he said.
“父母会认为，儿女的很多事情，自己这辈子都是要亲自参与的。结果，他们只是通过一个很公开的，第三方的途径听说这些事情。这更增添了他们的伤心，让他们觉得丢脸，”他说。 
No data exist on the number of family estrangements nationwide, or whether they are on the rise. But experts generally agree that family rifts — between parents and children or siblings — can lead to depression, marital strife, addiction and even suicide.
全国范围内家庭关系破裂的数量是多少？它们是否处于上升趋势？目前没有相关的数据。但专家们普遍认为，父母与子女之间或是兄弟姐妹之间的裂痕可能导致抑郁、夫妻失和、吸毒成瘾甚至自杀。
Vera Shelby, director of Healing Estranged Relationships, a support group with chapters in Texas and Colorado, said estrangement has its own stages of grief. “This is almost worse than death, because when they are estranged from you, they aren’t gone,” said Mrs. Shelby, 67, whose daughter refused to speak to her for four years. (Unlike Mrs. Shelby, most people interviewed for this article who are estranged from their parents or children did not want their full names used.)
贝拉·谢尔比(Vera Shelby)是“修复失和关系”组织的负责人。这是一个为失和家庭提供帮助的支持组织，他们在田纳西和科罗拉多设有分会。她认为，家庭关系破裂引发的悲痛是分阶段的。“这种隔阂甚至比死亡更糟糕，因为那些人只是和你疏远了，但他们没有离开人世，”67岁的谢尔比说道。她的女儿已经四年不和她说话了。（为了写作这篇报道，记者采访了一些被父母或子女疏远了的人。大多数接受采访的人不愿文中出现他们的全名，只有谢尔比例外。）
A woman named Mary, a county employee in Florida, has endured two long stretches when her daughter has stopped speaking to her. The first, starting in 1997, was heartbreaking, but she said it was not as agonizing as their current 10-month stalemate.
玛丽(Mary)是佛罗里达州下辖的一个县政府的雇员。她有两次女儿和她冷战的经历。第一次发生在1997年，她非常痛心。不过她说，现在这一次让她更痛苦。她们之间的这一次僵局已经持续10个月了。
“I didn’t know all those months and years what she was doing,” Mary said, adding that her daughter cut her off because she disapproved of her boyfriend. “It was easier because there were no reminders.”
“我不知道她那几个月、那几年都在做什么，”玛丽说。她补充说，女儿不和她说话的原因是因为她不满意她的男朋友。“那时候还好，因为没有东西去提醒我（和女儿之间的疏远）。”
In 2005, they reconciled for six years, but the daughter, who is now married to that boyfriend and has a young child, again stopped speaking to her 10 months ago for reasons Mary does not understand. Mary, who joined Facebook in 2008, now squirms when she checks her news feed.
2005年，她和女儿和解了，两人和睦相处了6年。玛丽的女儿嫁给了当年的那个男友，还有了孩子。但10个月前，女儿又不和她说话了。这一次，玛丽也不知道是为什么。2008年，玛丽注册了Facebook账号。现在，每当查看她女儿的更新时，她都会在心里颤抖一下。
“You’re watching other people enjoying your daughter and the grandchild you’re supposed to have, and you’re left out in the cold,” Mary said. “I have to watch pictures of my grandson — that I didn’t get — on my daughter’s sister-in-law’s page.”
“别人在分享和你的女儿、外孙在一起时的快乐。他们原本也是你的孩子。而现在，你却被冷落在一边，”玛丽说。“我没有外孙的照片，只能在我女婿的妹妹的页面上看看那些照片。 ”
Their rift also plays out in front of relatives and friends, in a humiliating way. When Mary’s 21-year-old son took his sister’s side and cut off contact for a few months, he not only removed her from his friends list but also disowned her on Facebook. “It was a blank little ghost where his face used to be on my profile,” she said.
玛丽与女儿之间的裂痕也会当着亲戚和朋友的面表现出来，让她觉得很丢脸。有一次，玛丽21岁的儿子选择站在姐姐一方，并在几个月内切断了同玛丽的一切联系。他不仅把玛丽拖出了好友名单，还在Facebook上解除了与她的关系。“在我的页面上，先前是他的头像的地方只剩下一个空白的轮廓，”她说。
Some parents said they could not help but check up on their estranged children online, searching for clues to unlock the mystery of why they have been cut off. If a parent’s child has blocked them on Facebook, they might send a “friend” request to their child’s acquaintances, follow them on Twitter or do Internet searches to find out where their grandchildren attend school.
有些父母说他们会情不自禁地在网上关注和他们闹了矛盾的子女，因为他们想找些线索，好弄明白子女为什么切断了和自己的联系。“如果子女在Facebook上屏蔽了他们，他们会向子女的熟人发送好友请求，并通过关注那些人的Twitter页面或是通过网上搜索找到自己的外孙在哪儿上学。
“This is a common question on my Web site — whether it’s more painful to sneak views on Facebook or not, or just to stay away altogether,” said Elizabeth Vagnoni, a documentary filmmaker who runs an online discussion forum for parents with estranged children — currently with more than 2,200 members — at estrangedstories.ning.com. She went through bouts of silence with her mother over a decade, and now has two estranged sons of her own. “I now live with knowing exactly how I made my mother feel,” Mrs. Vagnoni said.
“在我的网站上，一个很常见的问题是： 在Facebook上偷偷地关注对方的近况会不会更痛苦，或者干脆彻底断绝关系？”纪录片导演伊丽莎白·瓦格尼(Elizabeth Vagnoni)说道。她经营着一个在线论坛，专门针对那些和子女疏远了的父母。目前，这个域名为estrangedstories.ning.com的论坛有2200名成员。在曾经长达十年的时间里，她经常不和她母亲说话。现在，她自己的两个儿子也和她有隔阂。“现在，我真切地体会到当初我母亲的感受，”瓦格尼说。
For those who hope to reconcile, the online sleuthing can backfire if it is perceived as spying, said Monica McGoldrick, a family therapist and the director of the Multicultural Family Institute in Highland Park, N.J. For a mother, she said, “If ever there comes a day where she and her daughter get to have a conversation, what is she going to say?”
对于那些希望和解的人来说，如果在线打探对方近况被对方认为是暗中监视，这可能会导致适得其反的结果，”家庭心理医师莫妮卡·麦戈德里克(Monica McGoldrick)说道。她是多文化家庭研究所(Multicultural Family Institute)的所长。对于一名母亲来说，“如果有一天，要和自己的女儿谈一谈，她要说什么呢？”她说。
People who use social media are often aware that their estranged relatives are watching. A decade ago, Jessica, a 27-year-old Manhattan resident who works for a marketing company, stopped talking with her father, an alcoholic, after much turmoil. (Shortly after he remarried when she was 10, she called him and said, “You can divorce your wives, but you can’t divorce your children.” His reply, she recalled: “I wish I could.”)
使用社交媒体的的人们都清楚，和他们有隔阂的亲人在关注着他们。27岁的杰茜卡(Jessica)现在住在曼哈顿，供职于一家市场营销公司。10年前，她不再和她酗酒的父亲讲话。在那之前，两人之间有过多次冲突。（她10岁时，父亲再婚。之后不久，她给父亲打电话说：“你可以离婚，但你不能解除和子女的关系。”她回忆说，当时他父亲在电话里说：“我倒希望我能。”）
She sends Twitter messages for work and for fun, and knows through other relatives that her father is keeping up with her — her vegan diet, her travel schedule, her social life. It angers her, even though she acknowledges anyone can see her posts.
她在Twitter上发布了很多消息，有的是因为工作，有的只是因为好玩。她从其他亲戚那儿得知，她父亲关注着她在Twitter上的一举一动。她的纯素食饮食、她的旅游计划和她的社交生活，他都知道。这使她很气愤，尽管她的设置是任何人都可以看到她的帖子 。
“I didn’t want him to be telling extended family that stuff he was learning online about me because 140 characters don’t tell the whole story,” she said. Armed with details, he had misrepresented to his mother — with whom Jessica talks often —how close he was to her.
“我不想让他对亲戚们说那些他从网上知道的、关于我的事情，因为只有140个字符，Twitter上的东西并不能说明全部，”她说。因为从Twitter上知道了很多她的生活细节，她父亲在杰茜卡的祖母面前装作和女儿很亲密。而杰茜卡则经常和祖母聊天。
“That’s been a frustration,” she said. “That’s when I realized how creepy the digital space is.”
“这让我很气愤，”她说。“正是在那时，我意识到网络空间是多么让人讨厌。”
After reconnecting with her biological father in 2008, Lori, an adoptee in Brooklyn, grew increasingly concerned and then alarmed by the aggressive tone of his e-mails, in which he accused her of disrespect and not staying in touch.
洛丽(Lori)来自布鲁克林，她是一名养女。2008年，她恢复了与生父的联系。这之后，对于她生父电子邮件里咄咄逼人的口吻，她越来越担忧，后来甚至都感到警觉了。在那些邮件里，她父亲谴责她对他不尊重，还怪她不和他保持联系。
She ultimately decided to end all contact in 2009. She blocked his phone calls and e-mails, denied her father’s Facebook request and dropped his niece as a Facebook friend. Lori, 37, still agonizes about the decision. “I have a lot of guilt about breaking up,” she said, but added, “I don’t owe it to him to stay his pseudodaughter.”
2009年，她最终决定中断与她生父的所有联系。她屏蔽了他的电话和电子邮件，拒绝了他在Facebook上的好友请求，从好友里删除了他的侄女。37岁的洛丽至今还在为当初的决定感到痛苦。“和他断绝关系，我觉得很愧疚，”她说。不过，她又补充道：“我没有义务继续伪装成他的女儿。”
Sometimes people use social media to snipe at one another from afar. Mark Sichel, a Manhattan psychotherapist who wrote “Healing From Family Rifts,” said that a client’s son had posted details on Facebook this month about their falling out. Mr. Sichel has also counseled a bickering couple whose sunny Facebook postings are calculated to annoy the husband’s estranged mother. Their online persona, he said, is “a charade.”
有时候，社交媒体被人们用来从远处攻击他人。《走出家庭裂痕》一书的作者、心理治疗医师马克·西奇尔(Mark Sichel)说，他一个客户的儿子这个月在Facebook上发帖描述他和他父亲失和的细节。西奇尔还为一对经常争吵的夫妇提供心理咨询。这对夫妻的Facebook上那些轻松、欢快的帖子都是故意用来热闹这位丈夫的母亲，因为双方关系已经破裂。西奇尔说，他们的网络身份只是“伪装”而已。
Often estrangement does not sever just one relationship, but forces relatives to choose sides, leading to other rifts — for instance, birthday cards sent by a grandparent might never be passed on to grandchildren.
通常，亲人间的隔阂不仅会切断当事人之间的关系，还会迫使其他亲属选择立场，导致更多裂痕的产生。比如，（如果祖父母和父母有矛盾）祖父母寄出的生日卡片可能永远都到不了孙子孙女的手里。
In this context, social media does offer hope that estrangement does not necessarily have to have a ripple effect.
在这种背景下，社交媒体也带来一些希望，隔阂也许不一定会产生连锁反应。
“Say your sibling doesn’t talk to you, but has grown children; you can ‘friend’ them on the Internet,” Dr. McGoldrick said. Her philosophy: “Even if somebody chooses not to have a relationship with me, no one has a right to tell me who I can’t have a relationship with.”
“如果兄弟姐妹中有人和你断绝了关系，但他们有成年的子女，那你可以在网上和这些子女成为朋友，”麦戈德里克博士说。她的观点是：“哪怕有人选择和我断绝关系，但没人有权告诉我不能和谁建立联系。”
Mr. Sichel, whose parents cut him off in 2001, is skeptical. “I don’t think Facebook helps heal family relationships,” he said. “It just adds a new dimension of gossip, hearsay and visuals.”
西奇尔则对此表示怀疑。2001年，他父母切断了和他的联系。“我觉得Facebook无助于修复家庭关系，”他说。“它不过是另外一个供人蜚短流长、道听途说和传播图片的地方。”
One possible solution is to simply close Facebook accounts to avoid the pain. But that is hard to do in practice. “It scares me to close it down,” said Mary, whose heart sank when she watched a recent video of her grandson and heard him giggling.
为了避免痛苦，一个可能的解决办法是关闭Facebook账户，但实际操作起来很困难。“我害怕关闭Facebook账户，”玛丽说。当她在最近一段她外孙的视频中听到小家伙咯咯笑时，她感觉自己的心往下一沉。