PARIS — Ever since tiny Kosovo proclaimed itself an independent state five years ago, it has failed to win the recognition it so craved. Neither the United Nations, which officially decides such things, nor the European Union, whose member states are divided on the question, much less Serbia, from which Kosovo broke away, recognize the birth of a new European nation.
巴黎——面积狭小的科索沃自五年前宣布独立以来，始终无法赢得它所渴望的承认。不承认这个欧洲新国诞生的，既有正式决定这么做的联合国，也有成员国对此存在分歧的欧盟，更不用说科索沃原先所属的塞尔维亚了。
But after a campaign waged by an army of devoted Kosovars and strategically placed allies, Kosovo is hailing a grant of legitimacy by a new arbiter of national identity: Facebook.
然而，在一群执着的科索沃人及其占据关键位置的盟友开展了一场活动之后，一个新的仲裁者承认了科索沃国家地位的合法性：Facebook。这令科索沃感到振奋。
Last month, Kosovo declared victory, after its officials said Facebook approved a number of changes, including giving users registering from the diamond-shaped area on the Balkan Peninsula the option to identify themselves as citizens of Kosovo, rather neighboring Albania, or, more unattractively for many there, Serbia. They can also use the Facebook function that allows users to “check in” on the website from locations within Kosovo, like a cinema or a bar.
上个月，科索沃宣布了这一胜利，官员们表示，Facebook批准了一些修改，比如让巴尔干半岛上这个菱形区域的用户选择自己的国别是科索沃，而不是邻国阿尔巴尼亚，或者是更令人不甘的塞尔维亚。用户还可以使用Facebook功能，在该服务上“签到”科索沃境内的场所，比如电影院或者酒吧。
It is not as if Kosovo has joined NATO. But in an era when accumulating “likes” may top a seat in the General Assembly, at least for many young opinion leaders online, Kosovo’s leadership is hailing a change on a social media site as a diplomatic coup worthy of Talleyrand.
这当然与科索沃加入北约不一样。但在如今这个时代，积累“赞”可能比获得联合国大会上的一个席位更重要，至少对于网上很多年轻的意见领袖来说是如此，科索沃领导层也对​一个社交媒体网站的变化感到振奋，将其视为重大的外交突破。
“Facebook has grown to 1.2 billion users in eight years, faster than the growth of Islam, Christianity and the Internet itself,” said Petrit Selimi, Kosovo’s 34-year-old deputy foreign minister and the leader of the government’s digital diplomacy.
“在八年的时间里，Facebook的用户已经增加到12亿，比伊斯兰教、基督教和互联网本身的发展速度都快，“科索沃34岁的副外长佩特里特·塞利米(Petrit Selimi)说。他也是政府数字外交行动的负责人。
He said that having Kosovo fully included on Facebook had been a priority, along with the still-elusive goals of having Kosovo compete in the Eurovision song contest and in the European Champions League in soccer.
他说，让科索沃彻底地融入Facebook，与让科索沃参加欧洲电视歌唱大赛(Eurovision)和欧洲冠军杯足球联赛(European Champions League)一样，是优先要务。而后两个任务眼下还没有什么头绪。
“Being recognized on the soccer pitch and online has far greater resonance than some back room in Brussels,” Mr. Selimi said.
“与在布鲁塞尔占据某些后排空间相比，在足球场和网上获得承认带来的反响更大。”塞利米说。
Kosovo declared independence from Serbia in 2008. But because Facebook, mirroring the United Nations, did not list Kosovo as a nation, many among the country’s majority ethnic Albanian population opted to register as being from a country other than Kosovo.
科索沃2008年宣布从塞尔维亚独​​立。但是由于Facebook与联合国保持一致，没有把科索沃列为一个国家，该国人口中占多数的阿族人在注册它时选择了其他国别。
In protest, Prime Minister Hashim Thaci, a former guerrilla leader, said he had identified himself as being from neighboring Albania. Others among Facebook’s more than 200,000 Kosovar users said they had chosen distant Antigua.
对此表示抗议的科索沃总理、前游击队领袖科西姆·塔奇(Hashim Thaci)说他自己选的是邻国阿尔巴尼亚。Facebook上有20多万科索沃用户，其中一些说自己选择的是遥远的安提瓜。
Kosovo is recognized by the United States and a majority of European Union members. But five, including Spain, which is battling separatist movements of its own, refuse to recognize it. Serbia is also vehemently against recognizing Kosovo’s independence, and Russia, a staunch Serbian ally and a veto-wielding member of the United Nations Security Council, has blocked Kosovo’s membership in the United Nations, stifling its economic and political development.
科索沃得到了美国和多数欧盟成员国的承认。但有五个国家拒绝承认它的独立，其中包括本身也在打击国内分裂主义运动的西班牙。塞尔维亚强烈反对承认科索沃独立，俄罗斯作为塞尔维亚的坚定盟友以及联合国安理会中拥有否决权的成员，阻挠了科索沃在联合国获得成员国地位，从而遏制了它的经济和政治发展。
So every bit of legitimacy is important to Mr. Thaci’s government.
因此对塔奇的政府来说，任何领域的合法性都非常重要。
It rallied citizens to write messages on Twitter and bombard Facebook with thousands of emails. Kosovar ministers said they also lobbied Facebook officials in Pristina, Kosovo’s capital, and enlisted Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the Foreign Affairs Committee, whose longstanding support of Kosovo led the country to name a street after him. Mr. Engel said he appealed to Facebook officials in Washington, contending that listing Kosovo as a country was analogous to updating a map.
科索沃政府召集公民在Twitter上发消息，用成千上万的电子邮件轰炸Facebook。科索沃的一些部长说，他们还游说了Facebook在科索沃首府普里什蒂纳的管理层，并获得了美国众议院外交事务委员会(House Committee on Foreign Affairs)的民主党资深成员、纽约州众议员艾略特·L·恩格尔(Eliot L. Engel)的帮助。由于他长期支持科索沃，该国还以他的名字命名了一条街道。恩格尔说自己向Facebook在华盛顿的管理层做出了呼吁，表示把科索沃作为一个国家列出来，类似于更新地图。
“I told Facebook that Kosovo was a legitimate country recognized by more than 100 nations, and that they are no longer part of Serbia,” Mr. Engel said in a telephone interview. “It was not a hard sell.”
“我对Facebook说，科索沃是有100多个国家承认的合法国家，不再是塞尔维亚的一个部分，”恩格尔在接受电话采访时说。“论据相当充分。”
The Kosovo government said it had also received 500,000 euros, about $690,000, from Britain and Norway to help with its national digital diplomacy strategy, including training editors to update Wikipedia entries about Kosovo.
科索沃政府表示，英国和挪威还提供了50万欧元（约合人民币417万），资助他们展开数字外交战略，比如培训一些编辑，负责更新维基百科上跟科索沃有关的条目。
Online reaction to news of the Facebook changes was swift. “Facebook recognizes Kosovo as a state,” Kosovo’s minister for European Union integration, Vlora Citaku, wrote on Twitter. The American ambassador to Kosovo, Tracey Ann Jacobson, congratulated Kosovo on Twitter.
网上迅速对Facebook的变化做出了反应。“Facebook承认科索沃是一个国家，”科索沃的欧盟一体化部长维察·达契奇(Vlora Citaku)在Twitter上写道。驻科索沃的美国大使特蕾西·安·雅各布森(Tracey Ann Jacobson)则在Twitter上对科索沃表示祝贺。
But some Serbs vowed to protest by deleting their Facebook profiles and posting fake ones; others mocked Kosovo for treating Facebook like a country. “Tomorrow they will say that the Smurfs and hobbits have recognized them,” commented one reader on the online version of Blic, a Serbian daily newspaper. Another reader said Serbia should withdraw its ambassador from Facebook to protest.
但是，一些塞尔维亚人发誓要删除他们的Facebook个人资料，贴上虚假内容，以此作为抗议，有些人则嘲笑科索沃把Facebook当成了一个国家。“明天他们就会说蓝精灵和霍比特人承认他们了。”塞尔维亚日报《Blic》网络版的一名读者评论道。另一位读者说，塞尔维亚应该从Facebook召回大使，以示抗议。
Kosovars call the changes a matter of identity and economics. Kosovar businesses have been included on Facebook’s powerful advertising engine, allowing companies to target Kosovo’s small but growing consumer market.
科索沃称这个变化事关国家身份和经济。Facebook强大的广告引擎已经覆盖了科索沃的企业，因此公司可以面向科索沃规模虽小，但处于增长阶段的消费者市场开展业务。
Although Kosovo has sought to cast the Facebook changes as a diplomatic coup, Facebook characterized them as part of gradual process and not politically motivated.
尽管科索沃把Facebook的变化作为一个外交突破来宣传，但Facebook表示这是一个渐进过程的组成部分，背后没有政治动机。
Mr. Selimi, the Kosovar deputy foreign minister, said he hoped Facebook’s global reach would bolster Kosovo’s image. The country has a teetering economy and widespread corruption and remains associated primarily with the brutal ethnic wars of the 1990s. The government recently held Instagram boot camps in Pristina to train young people how to use social media to upload images of Kosovo such as medieval churches, new highways or its wine country.
科索沃副外长塞利米表示，他希望Facebook的全球影响力能提升科索沃的形象。该国经济发展步履蹒跚，腐败现象普遍存在，人们对它的印象主要跟20世纪90年代残酷的族群战争有关。政府近日在普里什蒂纳举办了Instagram训练营活动，培养年轻人使用社交媒体，上传科索沃的图片，比如中世纪教堂、新的高速公路或葡萄酒乡等。
“As a prime minister of Kosovo, I found it difficult to accept that I have to declare myself as being from Serbia,” Mr. Thaci said in an interview by telephone and email. “Being listed by Facebook was like being recognized by a global economic superpower. It has enormous impact.”
“作为科索沃总理，我觉得很难接受自己不得不选择塞尔维亚作为国别，”塔奇在通过电话和电子邮件接受采访时表示。“被Facebook承认，就如同获得一个全球经济超级大国的承认。它拥有巨大的影响力。”