SAN FRANCISCO — Dave Goldberg, the chief executive of SurveyMonkey and husband of Sheryl Sandberg of Facebook, died of head trauma Friday night after he collapsed at the gym at a private resort in Mexico, according to a Mexican government official.
旧金山——据墨西哥政府的官方消息，SurveyMonkey公司首席执行官、Facebook的谢丽尔·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)的丈夫戴夫·古德伯格(Dave Goldberg)，上周五在墨西哥一个私人度假村的健身房里摔倒，当天晚上死于头部创伤。
Mr. Goldberg, 47, was on vacation with family and friends at the Four Seasons Resort near Punta Mita, close to Puerto Vallarta in southwest Mexico, according to a spokesman for the prosecutor’s office in Nayarit State. Mr. Goldberg left his room around 4 p.m. on Friday, collapsed while exercising and died of head trauma and blood loss, said the spokesman. His brother, Robert Goldberg, found him on the floor of the gym at the resort at around 7 p.m., with blood around him. The spokesman said it appears “he fell off the treadmill and cracked his head open.”
古德伯格现年47岁，据纳亚里特州检察官办公室的发言人说，他当时正与家人和朋友在蓬塔米塔附近的四季酒店度假，那里靠近墨西哥西南的巴亚尔塔港。古德伯格上周五下午4点左右离开房间，发言人说他在健身的时候倒地，因头部创伤和失血致死。他的兄弟罗伯特·古德伯格(Robert Goldberg)晚上7点左右在度假村健身房发现他倒在血泊中。这位发言人说看起来他是“摔下了跑步机，撞破了头”。
Mr. Goldberg was transported to Hospital San Javier in Nuevo Vallarta, with weak vital signs, and died there, said the spokesman, who added that the incident appeared to be an accident. Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive of Facebook and a friend of the family, had said the death occurred while Mr. Goldberg was on vacation with Ms. Sandberg.
发言人说，古德伯格被送到圣哈维尔努埃沃尔塔医院时只有微弱的生命体征，当晚在那里过世。发言人还说，此事似乎是个意外。Facebook首席执行官、古德伯格一家的朋友马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)表示，古德伯格当时和桑德伯格一起在度假。
Mr. Goldberg’s death was announced by his brother and by SurveyMonkey on Saturday, but no cause or details of where it occurred were disclosed at that time. The lack of information prompted a wave of speculation about what happened to Mr. Goldberg, who was well regarded as an entrepreneur and mentor and was the less famous half of one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent power couples.
罗伯特·古德伯格和SurveyMonkey公司上周六宣布了他过世的消息，但当时没有披露死因或具体细节。信息的缺乏引发了一波关于古德伯格之死的猜测。他是一位声誉良好的企业家和导师，和比他更出名的妻子属于硅谷最有权势夫妇之列。
Ms. Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, has made no public statements about her husband’s death.
身为Facebook首席运营官的桑德伯格没有对丈夫之死发表任何公开声明。
The family is planning an invitation-only celebration of Mr. Goldberg’s life on Tuesday at Stanford Memorial Auditorium. Men planning to attend were urged not to wear ties “in keeping with Dave’s lifelong hatred of ties,” according to an emailed invitation sent to friends of the couple. The invitation added, “Out of respect for the family, please do not take pictures or post to social media” from the event.
古德伯格的家人计划本周二在斯坦福纪念礼堂举办一场不对外开放的追悼仪式。这对夫妇的朋友收到了电邮邀请函，信中呼吁男性参加者不要打领带，“以效仿终身痛恨领带的戴夫”。邀请函还要求参加者在仪式中“不要拍照，或发布到社交媒体上，以示对家人的尊重”。
The Walt Disney Company said it would move the time of its second-quarter earnings release on Tuesday so executives could attend the funeral. Ms. Sandberg is a Disney board member.
迪士尼公司(Walt Disney Company)表示将原定于本周二的第二季度财报会议改期，以方便其高管出席葬礼。桑德伯格是迪斯尼的董事会成员。
Mr. Goldberg, who had worked at Yahoo and at a venture capital firm before running SurveyMonkey, lived with Ms. Sandberg in Menlo Park, Calif. They have two children. He is also survived by his mother, Paula Goldberg.
在经营SurveyMonkey之前，古德伯格曾在雅虎(Yahoo)和一家风险投资公司工作。他与桑德伯格居住在加州门洛帕克，有两个孩子。他的母亲葆拉·古德伯格(Paula Goldberg)仍然健在。