Facebook’s Oculus is finally offering clarity on how much of a premium a virtual reality experience will cost.
脸书公司(Facebook)的“眼缝”(Oculus Rift)产品终于让人看清一流的虚拟体验得花多少钱。
After months of teasing the introduction of its Oculus Rift virtual reality goggles, the company said on Wednesday that it had opened orders for the system, which includes a headset and controller devices, with a price of $599. That’s without a computer included — you’ll need a fast one that will probably cost around $1,000. The device begins shipping in March.
就推出“眼缝”虚拟目镜上市一事，在吊足大众胃口数月之后，脸书公司本周三说它已开始接受购买该系统的订单。系统包括一个视听头套和一件控制装置，售价599美元，不含电脑。但你肯定需要一台高速电脑，这也许再得花上个1000美元左右。这套装置三月份开始发货。
Oculus also said that in February, it would open orders for a bundle, which includes the Rift headgear system and a computer that is certified to work with Oculus, for $1,500.
生产“眼缝”的“复眼”公司(Oculus)还说，他们会在二月份接受按套购买的订单，全套包括目前的“眼缝”头盔系统，外加一台核验为与其匹配的电脑，售价1500美元。
“People have been dreaming about immersive high-end VR for decades, and we’re thrilled to share Rift with you this March,” the company said in a blog post, announced during International CES, the consumer electronics show now taking place in Las Vegas.
该公司在博客上说，“人们几十年来一直梦想有一种可全方位体验的高端虚拟装置，我们非常激动能够在今年三月的时候和你们分享‘眼缝’产品”，该消息的发布正值眼下在拉斯维加斯举办的“国际消费者电子产品展”(International CES)期间。
While $599 and $1,500 aren’t cheap, Brendan Iribe, the chief executive of Oculus, said in an interview on the CES show floor that he felt there was still a broad market for the Rift at that price. “It’s a premium experience at a premium price, he said. “It’s not that much more than iPads and basically pretty close to a laptop.”Oculus is just one of many companies preparing to offer virtual reality devices this year. HTC, the Taiwanese manufacturer, worked with the software distribution company Valve to develop the virtual reality gadget Vive that will be released in April. Similar to Oculus, the Vive requires connecting to a powerful computer, meaning the pricing should be similarly high. The companies have not announced the price yet.
尽管599美元和1500美元的价位都不低，但“复眼”公司的首席执行官布兰登·伊里巴(Brendan Iribe)在展会现场的一次采访中称，他觉得这个价位的“眼缝”产品仍会有广阔的市场。他说，“它是一流价格的一流体验，它不比iPad贵多少，倒是和笔记本电脑很接近”。不过，“复眼”公司只是众多筹备推出虚拟装置的公司之一。台湾制造商HTC公司与软件分销商维尔福（Valve）合作开发虚拟电子产品“万寿”(Vive)，并打算与今年四月将其推出。“万寿”与“眼缝”产品类似，需连一台超强电脑，这意味它在价格上也会高得相差无几，但具体价格该公司目前尚未公开。
And Samsung Electronics teamed with Oculus last year to offer an entry-level virtual reality system, the Gear VR. That device, at $100, requires inserting a Samsung Galaxy smartphone into the headgear because it relies on the smartphone’s screen for video and its computing brains for running apps and games.
再有，三星电子公司(Samsung Electronics)去年和“复眼”公司合作，打算提供一种初级虚拟系统，名为“装备VR”(Gear VR)。该装置售价100美元，它需将一台三星盖乐世智能手机(Samsung Galaxy)插入头盔，因该装置需依赖智能手机的屏幕获取影像，还需依赖手机的运算智能使应用软件和游戏得以运转。
Many companies are marketing their devices toward gamers, but the companies are hoping virtual reality has a broader reach to everyday consumers. Chet Faliszek, a writer for Valve, said in an interview that he didn’t think the HTC Vive would be limited to gamers, partly because it involved moving around and making hand motions just like people did in everyday life.
许多公司都在把他们的装置推销给游戏玩家，但上面这些公司却希望虚拟可更广泛地延伸到日常的消费人群中。“维尔福”产品的专栏作家切特·法里斯克(Chet Faliszek)在一次采访中称，他不认为HTC的“万寿”产品会仅局限在游戏玩家的范围之内。他的部分理由是，装置所涉及的转身和手上动作都和人们平时做的一样。
“They can do all these very natural things,” he said. “That versatility and that ease of using things is what works. It’s easier to enter in than a game.”
他说，“所有这些很自然的事情他们都能做到。一件东西，用起来既能出神入化，又可轻而易举，这才是事成的关键。这事儿比起游戏来，入门更容易。”