IT WAS the only time I have ever allowed college students to have their cellphones out during class, in their hands no less.
那是我唯一一次允许大学生们在课堂上把他们的手机拿出来，拿在他们的手里。
“I want you to send a text to a friend,” I told students in my course, “The Search for Intimacy in the Age of Facebook.” “It has to be a text that shares your true feelings about something this friend has done or said that upset you but that you never said anything about. And you can’t spend a lot of time agonizing over the wording. Say what you mean and hit ‘send.’ ”
“我想要你们发短信给一个朋友，”在我的《在Facebook时代寻找亲密关系》课程上，我告诉学生们，“这位朋友曾经有一些言行伤害到你，但你当时并没有对此发表意见，在这条短信中，你必须要和对方分享你关于那件事的真实感受。你不能花很多时间在组织措辞上。说出你的意思，然后点击发送。”
Their eyes bugged wider than when we had talked about hookups. “I’m really hating you right now,” one student murmured, half-jokingly, her eyes locked in the oncoming headlights.
他们的眼睛瞪得比我们谈论互相“勾搭”的时候还要大。“我现在真的很讨厌你，”一个学生半开玩笑地嘟囔道，她的眼睛紧紧地盯着手机的来电来信提示灯。
This dilating of my students’ apertures, I’ve come to believe, is exactly what they need both in and outside the classroom if they are going to have the kind of success and fulfillment they desire. That’s because the parts of their lives that truly matter to many of them during college — high marks and solid “A” social lives — are undermined by a widespread, constricting social anxiety that comes, paradoxically, from two of their greatest pleasures: texting and social media. A small but growing body of evidence suggests that excessive social media use can lead to an unhealthy fixation on how one is perceived and an obsessive competitiveness. Perhaps not surprisingly, this angsting can also lead to an unhealthy quest for perfection, a social perfection, which breeds an aperture-narrowing conformity.
我相信，如果我的学生们想要获得他们渴望的成功与满足，那么，眼界的拓展，正是他们在教室内与教室外都需要的。因为在大学期间，生活中对他们中的许多人来说真的很重要的部分——高分以及如鱼得水的社交生活——正逐渐被一种广泛传播的、有压迫感的社交焦虑感所破坏，矛盾的是，它的来源正是他们最能从中得到乐趣的两样东西：短信与社交媒体。为数不多但一直在增长的证据表明，过度使用社交媒体可能导致人们对自己在旁人眼中的观感产生病态的关注和强迫性的竞争心理。也许并不令人惊讶的是，这种苦恼也能导致对完美的病态追求，在社交方面追求完美，则将使得让人眼界降低的趋同心理的滋长。
I got my first glimpse of this at Towson University, where I teach. When I entered the classroom for the first time, I was baffled by glaring contradictions. Students arrived to class early yet they sat still, avoided eye contact and rarely took part in discussions. (If and when they finally spoke up, it usually came on the heels of another student’s comment, and they invariably prefaced their remarks by saying, “First of all, I agree with what you just said,” even if they contradicted their classmate in the next breath.) They handed in assignments (on time) that were formatted with the kind of attention to detail and design you might find in a shareholders prospectus. Yet the ideas darted in so many directions like dragonflies, never penetrating the surface.
最初发现这一点，是在我任教的陶森大学(Towson University)。当我第一次进入教室时，我为眼前明显的矛盾而感到困惑。学生们很早就到达了教室，但他们坐在那里不动，避免目光交流，很少参与讨论。（如果他们真的说话了，那通常是针对另一个学生发言的评论，而且他们总是用这样的话来作为开场白，“首先，我同意你刚才说的话”，即使他们在下一秒就表达相反意见的时候也是一样。）他们（按时）交的作业的细节和设计，你可能会在招股说明书上看到。而他们表达的意思是如此纷乱，就像蜻蜓一样四处飞舞，永远触及不到表面以下的地方。
I implored students to dig deeper, to mine the complexity and creativity of their ideas; they responded with fancy fonts and grammar check. Frustrated and looking for answers, I took the direct approach and asked students to journal about their risk-taking reticence. A few brave souls confessed to fearing classmates’ judgment for saying or writing something “stupid” or, worse, something that “set them apart.”
我恳请学生们做得深入一些，发掘他们想法中的复杂性与创造性，他们的回应是使用更夸张的字体，再检查一下语法。我深感沮丧，想要寻找答案，于是直截了当，让他们说出自己面临风险时的谨慎惧怕。几个勇敢的学生承认他们害怕同学会评判自己说的话或者写的东西很“愚蠢”，或者更糟，“令自己显得与众不同”。
I remembered quiet classrooms from my college days, but this was different. Their avoidant silence ultimately hurt their grades and was part of the reason I developed the intimacy course.
我回想起自己上大学时安静的教室，但那种安静是不一样的。他们的回避型沉默最后损害的是他们的成绩，正因为此，我设计出了这门亲密关系课程。
More than another literature or creative writing course, these students needed a guide to the twisted subterranean landscape beneath their plugged-in social lives. Texting seemed like the logical place to drop our first pin. Even though it hasn’t yet seduced researchers the way Facebook has, texting incites profound cultural unrest. Literally. Recent studies have found that many participants reacted like addicts when separated from their cellphones, while other studies have found that the “sleeping disorders” some high schoolers experience result from cuddling up with text messages all night.
这些学生需要的不是另一堂文学或者创意写作课，而是指引他们发现在线社交生活的地表之下的风景。短信看上去是我们第一步研究的合理着手点。尽管它并不像Facebook那样吸引研究者的目光，但短信中其实蕴涵着深刻的文化变迁。事实如此。最近的研究发现，许多受访者在没有手机时，表现得像瘾君子一样，而其他研究也显示，有些高中生的“睡眠障碍”其实是由于整晚都抱着手机发短信造成的。
My students have confessed to both these behaviors, admitting that they fear “falling out of the loop” if they don’t respond to friends’ messages immediately, regardless of the hour. This is a generation so consumed with surface connection they will do anything to appear connected, including pretending to text when alone so they don’t look, as one student said, “like a total loser without friends.”
我的学生承认他们也有以上两种行为，不管处于什么时间，他们都害怕如果不马上回复朋友的信息的话，就会“从朋友圈中被排挤出去”。这是对表面联系过度消费的一代，他们为了看上去与大家协调一致可以做任何事，包括独处的时候假装在发短信，用一位学生的话来说，这样看上去不会“像一个没有朋友的彻头彻尾的失败者”。
The brevity of texting, or textese, which calls for a carefully calculated language of emotionless evasion, sidesteps confrontation. In assigning the in-class texting experiment, I wanted students to take a risk and confront one of their biggest fears: stepping into the muck and mire of emotional candor and sincerity.
短信的篇幅很小，这需要经过小心措辞，不断地回避对抗。在做那个课内发短信的实验时，我希望学生们能冒一下险，对抗他们最大的恐惧之一：迈步踏入表达真情实意时所带来的那片泥泞沼泽。
This was no small feat. One student wrote that she grew most “anxious about simply saying what was bothering me” to a friend. “Showing that I have a different opinion than her,” she wrote, “made me worry that she would dislike me.” Another student wrote about the quandary of whom to text: “I tried to think of someone I could text without . . . losing a friendship.”
这一步迈得可不小。一个学生后来写道，只是“发短信告诉一个朋友我的困扰”，就让她变得无比焦虑。“表达我和她有不同的意见，”她写道，“这让我担心她会不喜欢我。”另一位学生则写下了挑选短信对象时心中的不安：“我试着想出一个人，在发出这个短信后我们可以……不至于失去友谊。”
Lightning bolt epiphanies never surfaced, but students had stood apart from their crowd, even if on command. Many of them had liked the way that felt. For a day I basked in this hopeful afterglow.
电光火石般的顿悟从来不会发生在肤浅的交往中，但学生们至少站得离他们的朋友圈远了一些，即使是在命令之下才这么做的。很多人喜欢那种感觉。那一天，我都沐浴在希望的阳光中。
And the next morning I walked into the classroom.
第二天上午，我走进教室。
Students sat in the darkened room, poring over Facebook on their laptops and smartphones. The experiment’s luster had faded. It was inevitable, really. Studies show that American college students spend, on average, three hours texting and an hour and 40 minutes on Facebook every day. One of the more recent studies centers on the Bergen Facebook Addiction Scale: Norwegian researchers have observed that excessive Facebook use leads to higher rates of anxiety and social insecurity.
学生们坐在昏暗的房间中，徜徉在他们的笔记本和智能手机上的Facebook页面中。实验带来的光亮消失了。这是无可避免的，研究表明，美国大学生平均每人每天要花3个小时发短信，花1小时40分钟上Facebook。最近的一个研究把重点放在卑尔根Facebook成瘾量表(Bergen Facebook Addiction Scale)上：挪威学者们观察到，过度的Facebook使用会导致频发焦虑以及社交不安全感。
As my students roundly admit, much of their time on Facebook is spent on their profiles. They edit, Photoshop and solicit the “right” messages and photographs for their profiles with an obsession worthy of a lengthy research paper. The ultimate goal? Racking up “Likes.” In the world of Generation Y, that means conforming to the narrow lens of perceived perfection — mugging like a celebrity at parties, hanging with A-list hookups. Such photos illustrate the Facebook code: “Likes” are the new extraordinary. God help the poor soul who bleeds pedestrian, vulnerable feelings like sadness or melancholy onto her or someone else’s wall. As a student recently observed to a sea of nodding heads: “That kind of panhandling for attention is just pathetic. It has no place on Facebook.”
我的学生们差不多都承认，他们上Facebook时，很多时间都花在个人主页上。他们编辑“对的”信息，用Photoshop修改图片，其强迫心理值得写一篇长论文。最终目标？获得更多的粉丝。在Y世代(Generation Y)的世界里，这意味着在这狭窄的视野之中能被别人理解为完美——在派对上像名人那样被人拍照，和公认最性感的约会对象厮混。这样的照片诠释了Facebook准则：粉丝数是新的卓越标准。愿上帝帮助这些可怜的灵魂，他们把悲伤与郁闷这样平庸又脆弱的感情倾泻在自己或者其他人的留言墙上。正如一个学生最近的发言：“这种为了得到关注而乞讨的做法是可悲的。在Facebook上这种行为没有立足之地。”他的这番话赢得了众人的一致点头称许。
On the heels of this armored bravado, I asked students to take on another experiment, one that challenged their Facebook ethos: to eat in a crowded university dining room without the company of school work, laptops or smartphones. Or friends. Then they had to journal about it.
在这听到这样故作坚强的逞强之语之后，我请学生们做另一个实验，一个挑战他们Facebook准则的实验：在拥挤的大学食堂独自吃饭，周围没有作业、笔记本电脑和智能手机，也没有朋友。然后他们必须记录全过程。
The results were sobering. “I gathered my things and bolted out the door,” one student wrote about her reaction once she finished her meal. “I was glad that I could feel like I belong somewhere again. . . . What I hated most was being alone and feeling like I was being judged for it.” Another student echoed this experience. “By not having my phone or laptop to hide behind, it was amazing how self-conscious I felt,” she wrote.
结果发人深省。“我收好自己的东西，飞一般地跑出去，”一位学生这样描述她吃完饭后的第一个动作，“我庆幸自己又可以感觉属于某个地方了……我最讨厌的就是独自待着，觉得这样会被人指指点点。”另一个学生也有相同的体验。“我的手机和电脑不在身边，我不能躲在它们后面，我怎么会这么羞羞答答呢，这真是让我自己都大吃一惊，”她写道。
I shared the goal of this experiment with my students recently. Most of their eyes and mouths narrowed as they suggested that I had missed my mark, ignoring the candor in their reflections. Except for one student. She confessed to what could be the anthem for this porcelain generation: “I realized something disturbing after doing this. If I don’t feel connected with others, I automatically feel alone, unpopular, less confident.” A sea of eyes jarred open in unexpected solidarity.
我最近和学生们分享了一下这个实验的目的。在我告诉他们我把评定的分数弄丢了之后，他们中大多数人的眼睛都眯缝了起来，嘴巴紧紧抿着，并没有意识到他们的表情有多么直率坦白。只有一个学生的表情不是这样的。她这样坦承自己的心情，这段句子简直可以作为脆弱易碎的这一代的主题歌：“在那之后我觉得有点困扰。如果我觉得没有和大家建立联系，立马就会感觉到孤单、不受欢迎，还有不自信。”然后突然，那一片如海一般的眼睛出人意料地齐刷刷地睁大了。