WASHINGTON — The FBI director, James B. Comey, said Tuesday that the bureau would not recommend criminal charges against Hillary Clinton for her handling of classified information while she was secretary of state, lifting an enormous legal cloud from her presidential campaign less than two hours before she boarded Air Force One for her first joint campaign appearance with President Barack Obama.
华盛顿——联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)周二表示，联邦调查局不建议因希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在担任国务卿期间处理机密信息的方式对其提出刑事指控。这一表态为克林顿的总统竞选拨开了一片巨大的法律乌云。不到两小时后，她便登上空军一号，准备同贝拉克·奥巴马总统进行首次联合竞选亮相。
But in an extraordinary day of political drama in Washington, Comey rebuked Clinton as being “extremely careless” in using a personal email address for sensitive communications.
但在华盛顿，这是非同寻常的一天，充满政治戏剧色彩。科米指责克林顿用个人电子邮箱收发敏感信息的行为“极其大意”。
To warrant a criminal charge, Comey said, there had to be evidence that Clinton intentionally transmitted or willfully mishandled classified information. The FBI found neither, and as a result, he said, “our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case.”
科米表示，要证明有必要提起刑事指控，须有证据表明克林顿故意传送或不当处理机密信息。他说，FBI并未发现这两种情况，因此，“我们认为，明智的检察官不会提起这样的诉讼。”
Comey was more forthcoming and sterner than he usually is in public appearances, laying out several previously undisclosed findings from the FBI’s investigation:
科米比平时在公开场合现身时更主动，也更严厉，提到了FBI之前未公开的几项调查结果：
■ Of 30,000 emails Clinton handed over to the State Department, 110 contained information that was classified at the time she sent or received them. Of those, Comey said, “a very small number” were marked as classified. This finding contradicts Clinton’s repeated assertions that none of the emails were classified at the time Clinton saw them.
■ 在克林顿移交给国务院的三万封电子邮件中，有110封邮件中的信息在她发出或收到时属于机密。科米表示，在这些邮件中，被标记为机密的邮件“数量非常小”。这一结果反驳了克林顿反复强调的说法，即她看到那些邮件时，没有一封属于机密。
■ The FBI discovered “several thousand” work-related emails that were not in the original trove of 30,000 turned over by Clinton to the State Department. Three of those contained information that agencies have concluded was classified, though Comey said he did not believe Clinton deliberately deleted or withheld them from investigators.
■ FBI发现了“几千封”和工作有关的电子邮件，它们未在克林顿最初交给国务院的那三万封电子邮件之内。其中三封邮件中的信息被相关机构断定属于机密，不过科米表示，他不认为克林顿是故意删除或向调查人员隐瞒那些邮件。
■ It is “possible,” Comey said, that hostile foreign governments may have gained access to Clinton’s personal account. He noted that she used her mobile device extensively while traveling outside the United States, including trips “in the territory of sophisticated adversaries.”
■ 科米称，敌对外国政府“有可能”进入了克林顿的个人账户。他指出，克林顿在国外时大量使用移动设备，包括在“技术精良的敌对国的领地”。
■ Clinton used multiple private servers for her personal and government business, not just a single server at her home in New York that has been the focus of news reports for more than a year.
■ 在纽约的家中，克林顿处理个人和政府事务时使用了多台，而不仅仅是一台私人服务器。这一年多来，克林顿位于纽约家中的那一台服务器一直是新闻报道关注的焦点。