WASHINGTON — FBI Director Christopher Wray clashed publicly with the president for the first time Wednesday, condemning a push by House Republicans to release a secret memo that purports to show how the bureau and the Justice Department abused their authorities to obtain a warrant to spy on a former Trump campaign adviser.
华盛顿——周三，联邦调查局(FBI)局长克里斯托弗·雷(Christopher Wray)首次与总统公开发生冲突，谴责众议院共和党人推动一份秘密备忘录的公开，该备忘录据称能显示FBI和司法部滥用职权，取得了对一位特朗普前竞选顾问的监视授权。
The “FBI was provided a limited opportunity to review this memo the day before the committee voted to release it,” the bureau said in a statement. “As expressed during our initial review, we have grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo’s accuracy.”
“委员会在投票同意公开文件的前一天才给了FBI有限的机会来查阅备忘录，”FBI在一则声明中说。“正如我们在初步审阅时所说，我们严重担心事实的关键性遗漏会从根本上影响该备忘录的准确性。”
Though Wray’s name was not attached to the statement, the high-profile comment by the FBI thrust him into a confrontation with President Donald Trump, who abruptly fired his predecessor, James Comey. Trump wants to see the memo released, telling people close to him that he believes it makes the case that FBI and Justice Department officials acted inappropriately when they sought the highly classified warrant in October 2016 on the campaign adviser, Carter Page.
该声明并未附上雷的名字，但FBI这份高调的评论把他推进了与唐纳德·特朗普总统的冲突之中。曾开除了他的前任詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)的特朗普希望看到这份备忘录公开，并告诉身边的人，他相信这样就能证明，在2016年10月获取一份高度机密的授权令以求监视竞选顾问卡特·佩奇(Carter Page)的过程中，FBI和司法部官员采取了不当手段。
The Justice Department has warned repeatedly that the memo, prepared by Republican staffers on the House Intelligence Committee, is misleading and that its release would set a bad precedent for making government secrets public. FBI officials have said privately that the president is prioritizing politics over national security and is putting the bureau’s reputation at risk.
司法部再三提醒，这份由众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)共和党委员筹备的备忘录具有误导性，将其公布会立下公开政府机密的不良先例。FBI官员私下曾表示总统这是将政治斗争至于国家安全之上，并且危及FBI的名誉。
A White House spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., chairman of the House committee, described the FBI objections as “spurious” and accused the two law enforcement agencies of making “material omissions” to Congress and the courts.
白宫发言人并未立即回应置评请求。加利福尼亚州选举议员、该众议院委员会主席德文·努尼斯(Devin Nunes)称FBI的反对“站不住脚”，并指责两个执法机构在提供给国会和法院的材料中有“关键性遗漏”。
“It’s clear that top officials used unverified information in a court document to fuel a counterintelligence investigation during an American political campaign,” Nunes said in a statement. “Once the truth gets out, we can begin taking steps to ensure our intelligence agencies and courts are never misused like this again.”
“显然，高级官员在法庭文件中使用了未经核实的信息来推动美国政治竞选中的反情报调查，”努尼斯在一则声明中表示。“一旦真相大白，我们就可以着手确保我们的情报机构和法院不会再这样被滥用。”
Trump has five days to try to stop the release for national security reasons.
在接下来的五天里，特朗普可以以国家安全为由阻止文件的公布。
Democrats have called the Republican document a dangerous effort to build a narrative to undercut the department’s investigation into whether Trump’s associates colluded with Russians and whether Trump obstructed justice.
民主党人称共和党人的这份文件是一次危险的举动，意在形成一种叙事，以破坏FBI就特朗普的同僚是否与俄罗斯人勾结以及特朗普是否妨碍司法所展开的调查。