WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump has fired the director of the FBI, James B. Comey, over his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails, the White House said on Tuesday.
华盛顿——白宫周二称，唐纳德·特朗普总统已将联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)解职，原因是他对希拉克·克林顿电子邮件调查的处理。
Comey’s dismissal was a stunning development for a president that benefited from the FBI investigation of the Democratic nominee during the 2016 campaign. Separately, the FBI also is investigating whether members of the Trump campaign colluded with Russia to influence the election.
鉴于在2016年的竞选期间，特朗普总统受益于FBI对民主党提名人选克林顿的调查，科米被炒这一事态发展令人震惊。另外，FBI也正在调查特朗普竞选团队的成员是否曾与俄罗斯串通，以影响选举。
The abrupt firing raised questions over whether Trump was trying to influence the Russia investigation. But he said he was following recommendations from the Justice Department, which criticized how Comey concluded the investigation into Clinton.
科米突然遭解职引发了对特朗普是否试图影响有关俄罗斯的调查的疑问，但他自称是听从了司法部的建议。司法部曾指责科米结束对克林顿的调查。
“While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the bureau,” Trump said in a letter dated Tuesday to Comey.
“尽管我非常感谢你三次在不同的情况下告诉我没有受到调查，但我与司法部的判断一致，你没有能力有效地领导联邦调查局，”特朗普在一封写给科米的信中说。信上标注的日期是周二。
Comey broke with long-standing tradition and policies by publicly discussing the Clinton case in July and chastising her “careless” handling of classified information. Then, in the campaign’s final days, Comey announced that the FBI was reopening the investigation, a move that earned him widespread criticism.
科米曾打破长期以来的传统和政策，在7月公开讨论克林顿一案，并指责她对机密信息的处理“掉以轻心”。然后，在竞选的最后阶段，科米宣布FBI重启调查。这一举动使他广受指责。
Yet many of the facts cited as evidence for Comey’s dismissal were well known when Trump decided to keep him on the job. Comey was three years in to a 10-year term.
但被拿来作为炒掉科米的证据的很多事实，在特朗普决定让他留任时就已经众所周知了。科米的任期为10年，现在是第三年。
“It is essential that we find new leadership for the FBI that restores public trust and confidence in its vital law enforcement mission,” Trump wrote.
“我们必须为FBI寻找新领导，以恢复公众对其至关重要的执法使命的信任和信心，”特朗普写道。
In the final days of the campaign, Trump said that it “took guts” for Comey to reopen the Clinton investigation. “What he did brought back his reputation,” Trump said. Those very actions are now at the heart of Comey’s firing.
在竞选的最后阶段，特朗普称科米重新对克林顿展开调查“需要勇气”。“他赢回了自己的声誉，”特朗普说。现在，这些行动成了科米遭解职一事的中心。
Officials at the FBI said they were not immediately aware of Comey’s dismissal, which Trump described as effective immediately. The president has the authority to fire the FBI director for any reason.
FBI官员称，他们并没有在第一时间知晓特朗普所谓立即生效的科米遭解雇一事。总统有权以任何理由解雇FBI局长。
Under the FBI’s normal rules of succession, Comey’s deputy, Andrew G. McCabe, a career FBI agent, becomes acting director. The White House said the search for a new director will begin immediately.
按照FBI正常的继任规则，科米的副手、职业FBI探员安德鲁·G·麦凯布(Andrew G. McCabe)会成为代理局长。白宫方面表示，将立即开始寻找新局长。
The firing puts Democrats in a difficult position. Many had hoped that Clinton would fire Comey soon after taking office, and blamed him as costing her the election. But under Trump, the outspoken and independent-minded Comey was seen as an important check on the new administration.
科米被炒一事导致民主党处境困难。很多人本希望克林顿在上台后很快解雇科米，并指责是他让克林顿输掉了选举。但特朗普上台后，仗义执言、思想独立的科米被视作对新政府的重要制衡。
“Any attempt to stop or undermine this FBI investigation would raise grave constitutional issues,” said Sen. Richard J. Durbin, D-Ill. “We await clarification by the White House as soon as possible as to whether this investigation will continue and whether it will have a credible lead so that we know that it’ll have a just outcome.”
“任何试图阻止或暗中破坏FBI调查的行为，都会引起严重的宪法问题，”来自伊利诺伊州的民主党参议员理查德·J·德宾(Richard J. Durbin)说。“我们期待白宫尽快解释清楚，调查是否会继续，以及它是否会迎来一位可信的领导人，这样我们就知道它会得出公正的结论。”
Trump’s decision to fire Comey marks the second time that the president has fired a top law enforcement official since taking office. In early February, the president fired Sally Q. Yates, who had worked in the Obama administration but was serving as acting attorney general.
特朗普决定将科米解职，是他上台后第二次解雇高层执法官员。2月初，特朗普总统炒掉了莎莉·Q·耶茨(Sally Q. Yates)。耶茨曾在奥巴马政府任职，遭解职时担代理司法部长。
But the president’s firing of Comey was far more consequential. Yates was a holdover, and would only have served in the Trump administration for a matter of days or weeks. By contrast, Comey was in the midst of his term as director of the bureau.
但总统炒掉科米一事的影响要大得多。耶茨是期满留任，本来也只会在特朗普政府短期任职。相比之下，科米的FBI局长任期还没结束。
The White House said Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein pushed for Comey’s dismissal.
白宫称司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)和副部长罗德·罗森斯坦(Rod Rosenstein)强烈要求炒掉科米。
“I cannot defend the director’s handling of the conclusion of the investigation of Secretary Clinton’s emails,” Rosenstein wrote in another letter that was released by the White House, “and I do not understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken.”
“我无法为局长对结束有关克林顿国务卿电子邮件调查的处理辩护，”罗森斯坦在白宫公布的另一封信中写道。“我不明白他为什么拒绝接受他错了这个近乎普遍的看法。”
A longtime prosecutor who served as the deputy attorney general during the George W. Bush administration, Comey came into office in 2013 with widespread bipartisan support. He has essentially been in a public feud with Trump since long before the presidential election.
科米长期担任检察官，并在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府期间担任过司法部副部长。2013年，科米在两党的广泛支持下上台。从本质上来说，早在大选之前，他就与特朗普公开不和了。
In a Twitter message earlier this week, Trump accused Comey of being “the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton,” accusing him of giving her “a free pass for many bad deeds.”
在本周早前的一条推文中，特朗普指责科米是“希拉里·克林顿身上发生的最美好的事情”，称科米给了克林顿做“很多坏事的免费通行证”。
Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in a post on Twitter that Comey “should be immediately called to testify in an open hearing about the status of Russia/Trump investigation at the time he was fired.”
参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)成员、俄勒冈州民主党参议员罗恩·怀登(Ron Wyden)在一条推文中说，科米“应立即被叫去在公开的听证会上作证，介绍他被解职时有关俄罗斯和特朗普的调查情况”。
Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, offered a veiled hint of the bombshell earlier in the day on Tuesday, though no reporters picked up on it.
对于这一惊人的消息，白宫新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)在周二早些时候给出了一个隐晦的暗示，但没有记者注意到。
During his daily briefing, Spicer was asked — as he frequently is — whether Comey still has the confidence of the president. Instead of saying yes, Spicer danced around the question.
在每天的新闻发布会上，斯派塞被问到——这种情况很频繁——总统是否依然信任科米。斯派塞没有说是，而是顾左右而言他。
“I have no reason to believe — I haven’t asked him,” Spicer said. “I have not asked the president since the last time we spoke about this.”
“我没有理由相信——我没问过他，”斯派塞说。“自从上次谈过这件事后，我还没问过总统。”
The reporter noted that Spicer had previously indicated that the president did have confidence in Comey, but asked whether recent revelations about Comey’s misstatement during testimony on Capitol Hill would change that.
这名记者指出斯派塞以前表示总统的确信任科米，但提出最近有关科米在国会作证期间发表不实言论的消息，是否会改变这一点的问题。
“In light of what you’re telling me, I don’t want to start speaking on behalf of the president without speaking to him first,” Spicer said.
“根据你告诉我的情况，我不想不先和总统确认，就代表他开始发言，”斯派塞说。