WASHINGTON — The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, took the extraordinary step on Monday of announcing that the F.B.I. is investigating whether members of President Trump’s campaign colluded with Russia to influence the 2016 election.
华盛顿——FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)周一采取不同寻常的做法，宣布FBI正在调查特朗普竞选活动的成员是否与俄罗斯勾结，对2016年的总统大选施加影响。
Mr. Comey’s remarks before the House Intelligence Committee created a treacherous political moment for Mr. Trump, who has insisted that “Russia is fake news” that was cooked up by his political opponents to undermine his presidency. Mr. Comey placed a criminal investigation at the doorstep of the White House and said agents would pursue it “no matter how long that takes.”
科米在众议院情报委员会面前发表的这番讲话，令特朗普陷入一个危险的政治时刻，因为他曾坚称“俄罗斯是假新闻”，是由他的政敌捏造的，目的是破坏他的执政。科米把一场刑事调查摆在了白宫的门口，并且表示特工“无论花多长时间”也要查到底。
Mr. Comey also dismissed Mr. Trump’s claim that he was wiretapped by his predecessor during the campaign, a sensational but unfounded accusation that has served as a distraction in the public debate over Russian election interference.
科米还驳斥了特朗普自称在竞选期间被前任总统窃听的说法。那是一个耸人听闻而毫无根据的指控，用来把公众的注意力从关于俄罗斯干预选举的公开辩论上转移开。
The New York Times and other news organizations have reported the existence of the investigation into the Trump campaign and its relationship with Russia, but the White House dismissed those reports as politically motivated and rallied political allies to rebut them. Mr. Comey’s testimony on Monday was the first public acknowledgment of the case. The F.B.I. typically discloses its investigations only in the rare circumstances when officials believe it is in the public interest.
《纽约时报》和其他新闻机构之前报道说，对特朗普竞选活动及其与俄罗斯关系的调查已经在进行，但白宫驳斥这些报道存在政治动机，是在为他们的政敌助威。科米周一的证词是对此案的第一次公开承认。 FBI极少披露自己的调查，通常只有在其官员认为符合公众利益的情况下才会这么做。
“This is one of those circumstances,” Mr. Comey said.
“目前就属于这样的情况，”科米说。
Counterintelligence investigations are among the F.B.I.’s most difficult and time-consuming cases, meaning the cloud of a federal investigation could hang over the Trump administration for years.
反情报调查是FBI最困难、最耗时的案件类型之一，这意味着联邦调查的阴云可能笼罩在特朗普政府上方很多年。
American intelligence agencies concluded in January that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia personally ordered a covert effort to hurt Hillary Clinton’s chances and aid Mr. Trump. That included the hacking of political targets including the Democratic National Committee and releasing embarrassing emails through the website WikiLeaks.
美国情报机构在1月份得出结论，称俄罗斯总统普京亲自下令暗中削弱希拉里·克林顿当选的机会，协助特朗普。他们的行动包括对民主党全国委员会等政治目标进行黑客入侵，以及通过维基解密(WikiLeaks)网站发布令人尴尬的电邮。
Mr. Comey said the F.B.I. was “investigating the nature of any links between individuals associated with the Trump campaign and the Russian government, and whether there was any coordination between the campaign and Russia’s efforts.”
科米说，FBI正在“调查与特朗普竞选活动有关的个人与俄罗斯政府之间存在的任何联系属于什么性质，以及竞选活动和俄罗斯的行动之间是否存在任何策应。”
American officials have said that they have so far found no proof of that, but current and former officials say they have uncovered evidence that Mr. Trump’s associates were in repeated contact with Russian officials — including people tied to Russian intelligence.
美国官员说，他们迄今没有发现任何证据，但一些现任和前任官员说，他们已经发现了证据，显示特朗普的联系人多次与俄罗斯官员接触——这些官员中有些和俄罗斯情报机构有联系。
Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser to Mr. Trump, has acknowledged communicating with Guccifer 2.0, an online persona believed to be a front for Russian intelligence officials involved in disseminating hacked Democratic emails. Mr. Stone has denied that there was anything improper about the contact, and he was one of many, including political operatives and journalists, to communicate with the hackers.
特朗普的长期顾问小罗杰·J·斯通(Roger J. Stone Jr.)已经承认与Guccifer2.0有过联系。Guccifer2.0是一个网络人物，据信由俄罗斯情报官员操纵，参与了民主党被盗电邮的散播。斯通否认这些联系有任何不当之处，很多人有和黑客有往来，包括政治工作者和记者，他只是其中之一。
Last July, the month that WikiLeaks began releasing the hacked emails, Carter Page, a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Trump, visited Moscow for a speaking engagement. Mr. Page has declined to say whom he met there, but he has said they were mostly scholars.
去年7月，维基解密开始发布被黑客盗取的电邮时，特朗普的外交政策顾问卡特·佩奇(Carter Page)访问了莫斯科，还发表了演讲。佩奇拒绝谈论自己在那里和谁见过面，但他说其中大部分都是学者。
Michael T. Flynn, a Trump campaign adviser who went on to be his national security adviser, was paid more than $65,000 by companies linked to Russia in 2015, including an American branch of a cybersecurity firm believed to have ties to Russia’s intelligence services, according to congressional investigators. Mr. Flynn was forced to resign after misrepresenting his conversations with the Russian ambassador to the United States.
竞选顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)后来成为了特朗普国家安全顾问，国会调查员说，几家和俄罗斯有联系的公司在2015年向他支付了逾6.5万美元，包括一家据信与俄罗斯情报部门有联系的网络安全商在美国的分公司。弗林对他与俄罗斯驻美国大使之间的交谈进行了不实陈述，之后被迫辞职。
Democrats listed those Russian connections and others as they painted Mr. Trump as a candidate who adopted pro-Russia views and courted Russian interests.
民主党人以特朗普竞选团队和俄罗斯等方面的联系为依据，把特朗普描绘为一个支持亲俄派观点、为俄罗斯利益奔走的总统竞选人。
“Is it possible that all of these events and reports are completely unrelated and nothing more than an entirely unhappy coincidence?” said Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the committee’s top Democrat. “Yes, it is possible. But it is also possible, maybe more than possible, that they are not coincidental, not disconnected and not unrelated.”
“所有这些事件和报告是不是毫不相关，完全是一个令人不快的巧合？”众议院情报委员会民主党资深成员、加利福尼亚州众议员亚当·B·希夫(Adam B. Schiff)说，“是的，这是可能的。但也有可能，或者不仅仅是可能，它们并非巧合，而是存在着联系，彼此相关。”
Mr. Trump began the day with Twitter posts denying any collusion with Russia and criticizing leaks of classified information about the investigation. By midday, the White House was citing Mr. Comey’s testimony to suggest that members of the Obama administration had coordinated leaks against Mr. Trump.
特朗普今天一早首先发推否认与俄罗斯有任何勾结，并且对涉及调查的机密信息遭到泄露进行了批评。到中午，白宫引用科米的证词，称奥巴马政府成员参与了针对特朗普的泄露事件。
Republicans made similar allegations on Capitol Hill, using their questions to Mr. Comey as a way to criticize the news coverage about the Russia investigation and chastise government officials who speak anonymously to journalists. Representative Devin Nunes of California, the Republican chairman of the committee, has said that rooting out those leakers is a priority.
共和党人也在国会山上提出类似的指责，并利用向科米发问的机会来批评关于俄罗斯调查的新闻报道，斥责那些匿名为记者提供信息的政府官员。众议院情报委员会主席、加利福尼亚州共和党众议员德文·努尼斯(Devin Nunes)说，找出泄漏这些信息的人是一个当务之急。
“We aim to determine who has leaked or facilitated leaks of classified information so that these individuals can be brought to justice,” he said.
“我们的目标是，弄清是谁泄露了机密信息，或者促成了它们的泄漏，以便将这些人绳之以法，”他说。
The White House has insisted that there is nothing left to investigate about Russia and has instead asked Congress to look into Mr. Trump’s claims that he was wiretapped. Mr. Trump made those allegations in a flurry of Twitter posts early this month.
白宫坚称对俄罗斯没有什么可以调查的，并且要求国会调查特朗普关于他被窃听的说法。特朗普是本月初通过一系列推文发出这些指控的。
The White House has stood by those claims even in the face of conclusions from all corners of the government that they are false. “I have no information that supports those tweets, and we have looked carefully inside the F.B.I.,” Mr. Comey said, adding that the Justice Department also had no evidence.
尽管政府各个部门都得出结论，称这些说法不符合事实，但白宫仍然坚持己见。“我没有任何可以支持这些推文的信息，我们对FBI内部进行了谨慎的调查，”科米说。他还说司法部也没有证据。