WASHINGTON — In dramatically casting aside James B. Comey, President Trump fired the man who may have helped make him president — and the man who potentially most threatened the future of his presidency.
华盛顿——特朗普总统颇为戏剧性地把詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)扫地出门，他解雇的是一个或许为他当选总统出了力的人，同时也是一个极有可能威胁到他未来的总统生涯的人。
Not since Watergate has a president dismissed the person leading an investigation bearing on him, and Mr. Trump’s decision late Tuesday afternoon drew instant comparisons to the Saturday Night Massacre when President Richard M. Nixon ordered the firing of Archibald Cox, the special prosecutor looking into the so-called third-rate burglary that would eventually bring Nixon down.
自从水门事件以来，还没有哪位总统解雇一位与自己有关的调查的负责人，特朗普于周二晚间做出的这一决定，立即被比作“周六夜大屠杀”(Saturday Night Massacre)——当时，理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)总统下令解雇了特别检察官阿奇博尔德·考克斯(Archibald Cox)，也就是负责调查最终导致尼克松下台的所谓三流窃案的人。
In his letter informing Mr. Comey that he was terminated as F.B.I. director, Mr. Trump made a point of noting that Mr. Comey had three times told the president that he was not under investigation. But Mr. Comey has said publicly that the bureau is investigating Russia’s meddling in last year’s presidential election and whether any associates of Mr. Trump’s campaign were coordinating with Moscow.
特朗普以致信的方式通知科米，其联邦调查局(FBI)局长的职务被解除。总统在信中特别指出，科米曾三度告诉他，他未受到调查。但科米公开表示过，联邦调查局正就俄罗斯干预去年的美国总统选举，以及特朗普的竞选助手中是否有哪个人曾与莫斯科合作展开调查。
While Mr. Trump said he acted on the recommendation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, he had left little doubt about his personal feelings toward Mr. Comey or that Russia investigation in recent days. “Comey was the best thing that has ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for her many bad deeds!” he wrote on Twitter a week ago.
特朗普说自己是在司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)建议下行事的，但他近来清楚地表明了他本人对科米或针对俄罗斯的调查的态度。“科米简直是希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的福星，对她做的很多坏事都睁一只眼闭一只眼。”一个星期前他在Twitter上写道。
“The Russia-Trump collusion story is a total hoax, when will this taxpayer funded charade end?” he added on Monday.
“关于俄罗斯和特朗普串谋的故事完全是凭空捏造的，这种浪费纳税人钱财的把戏什么时候才是个头儿？”他于周一继续写道。
Some Democrats immediately raised the specter of Watergate and called for a special counsel to lead an independent investigation into the Russian meddling and any ties to Mr. Trump’s campaign. “This is Nixonian,” Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said in a statement.
一些民主党人立即提醒人们警惕水门事件还魂，并呼吁由一名特别检察官领衔，就俄罗斯人对美国大选的干预及其与特朗普竞选团队之间的任何关联展开独立调查。“这是尼克松式的做法，”宾夕法尼亚州民主党参议员鲍勃·凯西(Bob Casey)在一份声明中表示。
“Not since Watergate have our legal systems been so threatened and our faith in the independence and integrity of those systems so shaken,” added Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut.
“自从水门事件以来，我们的法律体系从未受到过这样的威胁，我们对独立和诚信的信仰从未受到过这样的撼动，”康涅狄格州民主党参议员理查德·布卢门撒尔(Richard Blumenthal)说道。
The paradox, of course, is that Mr. Comey had few fans among Democrats, especially Hillary Clinton, who just last week blamed him for steering the election to Mr. Trump by publicly announcing shortly before the election that he was reopening his investigation into her private emails.
当然，这里的吊诡之处在于，科米在民主党人中间并没有什么拥趸，而且尤其不受希拉里·克林顿待见，她上周还谴责说，科米在大选日即将到来之际公开宣布重启关于她的私人邮件的调查，让选战的天平偏向了特朗普一边。
Ever since Watergate, presidents have been reluctant to take on F.B.I. directors, no matter how frustrated they were. The only exception was President Bill Clinton, who fired William S. Sessions in 1993 after ethical issues were raised against Mr. Sessions, and was accused of acting politically. The successor he appointed, Louis J. Freeh, became even more of a headache for Mr. Clinton as he helped independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr investigate the president. But Mr. Clinton never risked the political backlash that would have come had he dismissed Mr. Freeh.
水门事件之后的历任总统无论有多懊恼，都不愿意与联邦调查局局长对着干。唯一的例外是比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)。1993年，他在威廉·S·塞申斯(William S. Sessions)被发现存在道德问题并被控行事带有政治倾向后将其解雇。他让路易斯·J·弗里(Louis J. Freeh)接替塞申斯的职务，却给自己找来了更大的麻烦——弗里曾协助独立检察官肯尼斯·W·斯塔尔(Kenneth W. Starr)调查这位总统。但克林顿没有冒着招致政治反弹的风险解雇弗里。
Robert S. Mueller III threatened to resign as F.B.I. director during President George W. Bush’s administration if a secret surveillance program he considered illegal were continued, and Mr. Bush backed down rather than risk the scandal that would have ensued. Joining Mr. Mueller in that threat, as it happened, was a deputy attorney general names James Comey.
乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统当政期间，联邦调查局局长罗伯特·S·穆勒(Robert S. Mueller)曾威胁说，一个在他看来并不合法的秘密监控项目如果继续下去，他就辞职。布什做出了让步，而非冒着引发丑闻的风险行事。巧的是，当年与穆勒一道以辞职相威胁的，正是时任司法部副部长詹姆斯·科米。
Timothy Naftali, a former director of the Richard M. Nixon presidential library, said Mr. Trump’s dismissal of Mr. Comey was not a direct parallel to the Saturday Night Massacre because he was not appointed specifically to investigate the 2016 campaign.
理查德·M·尼克松总统图书馆前馆长蒂莫西·纳夫塔利(Timothy Naftali)表示，特朗普解雇科米与“周六夜大屠杀”之间没有显而易见的相似之处，因为科米并非专门受命调查2016年大选。
“With or without Mr. Comey, the F.B.I. will continue to investigate the 2016 campaign as it relates to Russian intervention,” Mr. Naftali said. “This is another kind of mistake. Unless Attorney General Sessions can prove malfeasance or gross negligence by Comey, the timing of this action further deepens suspicions that President Trump is covering up something.”
“无论有没有科米，联邦调查局都会继续调查2016年大选，因为这与俄罗斯的干预有关，”纳夫塔利说。“这是另一种错误，除非司法部长塞申斯可以证明科米渎职或有重大过失，否则在这样的时刻采取行动会让人更加怀疑特朗普总统是在掩盖什么东西。”