WASHINGTON — A former F.B.I. agent has agreed to plead guilty to leaking classified information to The Associated Press about a foiled bomb plot in Yemen last year, the Justice Department announced Monday. In a twist, the former agent had already been under investigation in a separate child pornography case, and he has also agreed to a guilty plea in it.
华盛顿——美国司法部(Justice Department)于周一宣布，美国联邦调查局(FBI)的一名前特工已经同意认罪，确认自己曾向美联社(Associated Press)泄露去年发生在也门的一起被挫败的炸弹袭击图谋。令人意想不到的是，他一直在接受另一桩儿童色情案件的调查，并已同意伏罪。
Federal investigators said they were able to identify the man, Donald Sachtleben, a former bomb technician, as a suspect in the leak case only after secretly obtaining A.P. reporters’ phone logs, a move that set off an uproar among journalists and members of Congress of both parties when it was disclosed in May.
联邦调查员说，他们能够找到这名叫唐纳德·萨赫特勒本(Donald Sachtleben)的前炸弹技术员，都是因为此前秘密获取了美联社记者的通讯记录，此举于今年5月被公布时，在记者和国会两党议员当中掀起了轩然大波。
Mr. Sachtleben, 55, of Carmel, Ind., who was an F.B.I. agent from 1983 until 2008 and was later hired as a contractor, has agreed to serve 43 months in prison for the leak, the Justice Department said. His case is the eighth leak-related prosecution under the Obama administration. Only three such cases were prosecuted under all previous presidents.
司法部表示，55岁的萨赫特勒本来自印第安纳州卡梅尔，从1983年到2008年，他一直是FBI的特工，后来受雇成为一名承包商，他已同意为此次泄密行为服刑43个月。他的案子是奥巴马政府任内发起的第八宗涉及泄密的诉讼案。在此前的所有总统任职期间，像这样的案件只起诉过三宗。
“This prosecution demonstrates our deep resolve to hold accountable anyone who would violate their solemn duty to protect our nation’s secrets, and to prevent future, potentially devastating leaks by those who would wantonly ignore their obligations to safeguard classified information,” said Ronald C. Machen Jr., the United States attorney for the District of Columbia.
美国哥伦比亚特区联邦检察官小罗纳德·C·梅钦(Ronald C. Machen Jr.)说，“本次诉讼展现了我们坚定的决心，任何公民如果违背保守国家机密的神圣义务，都将被绳之以法，我们还决心阻止那些罔顾捍卫机密信息之责任的泄密者，避免可能带来灾难性后果的泄密事件。”
Mr. Sachtleben has separately agreed to plead guilty and serve 97 months in the pornography case. His total sentence, should a judge accept the plea deal, is 140 months, or nearly 12 years. The 43 months for leak-related offenses is the longest ever imposed by a federal civilian court in such a case, although a military judge last month sentenced Chelsea Manning, formerly known as Pfc. Bradley Manning, to 35 years in prison for leaking archives of documents to WikiLeaks.
萨赫特勒本已经同意就另一桩儿童色情案认罪，并服刑97个月。如果法官接受认罪协议，他的所有刑期将达到140个月，也就是将近12年。上个月，原名一等兵布拉德利·曼宁(Pfc. Bradley Manning)的切尔西·曼宁(Chelsea Manning)因向维基解密(WikiLeaks)泄露档案文件，被军事法官判处35年有期徒刑，既便如此，因泄密违法行为而被处以43个月的监禁，也依然是联邦民事法院在此类案件中判处过的最长刑期。
Paul Colford, a spokesman for The A.P., would not discuss the case, saying, “We would never comment on our sources.”
美联社发言人保罗·科尔福德(Paul Colford)拒绝谈论此案，他说，“我们永远不会评论我们的线人。”
The case originated in a successful intelligence operation in April 2012 that disrupted a plot by Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, a Yemen-based offshoot of the main group, to destroy an airliner. The government was able to obtain a special underwear bomb apparently designed by the terrorist group’s master bomb maker, Ibrahim al-Asiri, to evade detection in airport security checks.
此案源于2012年4月的一次成功的情报行动，那次行动挫败了阿拉伯半岛基地组织(Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula)摧毁一架民航班机的阴谋，该组织是基地组织在也门的一个分支。政府在行动中起获了一枚为避开机场安检而特制的内衣炸弹，看来是由该恐怖组织的炸弹制造能手易卜拉欣·阿西里(Ibrahim al-Asiri)设计的。
On May 7, 2012, The A.P. broke the news that the bomb plot had been disrupted, setting off further disclosures.
2012年5月7日，美联社发布了炸弹阴谋已经被挫败的消息，进而使更多的信息被公布出来。
Nearly a year later, in May 2013, the Justice Department disclosed that after the F.B.I. had interviewed more than 550 officials and been unable to solve the case, investigators had secretly used subpoenas to telephone companies to obtain calling records for 20 lines associated with A.P. bureaus and reporters. The scope and secrecy of the subpoenas outraged journalism organizations and lawmakers of both parties, who accused the department of going too far.
司法部在将近一年之后的2013年5月披露，FBI在和550多名官员面谈后，依然无法破案，此后，调查人员暗中用传票命令电话公司截取与美联社和该社记者有关的20条电话线路的通话记录。传票涉及范围之广和行动方式之隐蔽，引发了新闻组织和两党议员的强烈抗议，他们指责司法部做得太过分了。
The Justice Department said the phone records had proved crucial in identifying Mr. Sachtleben as a suspect. And, in a bizarre coincidence, investigators then discovered that other law enforcement officials had already seized his computer and other electronic materials as part of an unrelated child pornography investigation.
司法部说，事实证明电话记录对甄别萨赫特勒本的嫌疑人身份至关重要。而且在机缘巧合之下，调查人员发现萨赫特勒本的电脑和其他电子资料已经被其他的执法官员收缴，用于另一桩不相干的儿童色情案的调查。
“Sachtleben was identified as a suspect in the case of this unauthorized disclosure only after toll records for phone numbers related to the reporter were obtained through a subpoena and compared to other evidence collected during the leak investigation,” the Justice Department said. “This allowed investigators to obtain a search warrant authorizing a more exhaustive search of Sachtleben’s cellphone, computer and other electronic media, which were in the possession of federal investigators due to the child pornography investigation.”
司法部表示，“在这起未获授权泄露信息的案件中，如果不是调查人员此前通过传票获取了与记者有关的通话记录，并与泄密调查中收集的其他证据进行了比对的话，调查人员是无法认定萨赫特勒本的嫌疑人身份的。嫌疑人的确认使调查人员能够拿到搜查令，获得授权对萨赫特勒本的手机、电脑和其他电子媒体设备进行更加彻底的搜查，由于儿童色情案的调查，上述证物已经处在联邦调查员的掌握中。
A court filing said agents discovered evidence that he had stored classified intelligence information on the computer without authorization, leading to a separate charge under the Espionage Act.
法庭文件指出，探员们找到的证据证实，萨赫特勒本未经授权在电脑上存储了机密情报信息，因而产生了另一项依据《反间谍法》(Espionage Act)的指控。
One court filing quoted text messages in which the reporter reached out to Mr. Sachtleben on April 30, 2012, after ABC News reported that Mr. Asiri might have been working on bombs that could be surgically implanted. Mr. Sachtleben and the reporter exchanged several text messages, quoted in the court filing, speculating about the ABC report. As it turns out, the contractor was about to take a trip to Quantico. On May 2, he visited the lab where the underwear device was being examined, it said, and soon called the reporter.
一份法庭文件援引了记者于2012年4月30日联络萨赫特勒本的短信，在这之前，美国广播公司(ABC)报道说，阿西里可能一直在制作能够通过手术植入人体的炸弹。法庭文件引用的短信显示，萨赫特勒本和这名记者互发了几条短信，揣测美国广播公司的报道。事实证明，这名承包商打算前往匡蒂科。法庭文件显示，5月2日，他走访了正在检测内衣爆炸装置的实验室，然后迅速给记者打了电话。
Two and a half hours later, the court filing said, two A.P. reporters began calling a variety of government officials saying they knew that the United States government had intercepted a bomb from Yemen and that the F.B.I. was analyzing it.
法庭文件指出，两个半小时之后，两名美联社记者开始给不同的政府官员打电话，说他们得知，美国政府已经截获了一枚来自也门的炸弹，FBI正在分析这枚炸弹。
The very next day, May 3, 2012, law enforcement agents in Indiana, working on an unrelated case involving the distribution of child pornography on the Internet, obtained a search warrant for Mr. Sachtleben’s house, court filings show. They seized his computers on May 11.
法庭文件显示，恰恰就在第二天，也就是2012年5月3日，印第安纳州的执法人员就获得了搜查萨赫特勒本住所的搜查令，这些执法人员正在调查一桩与此无关的案件，涉及到在网上散布儿童色情作品。他们在5月11日收缴了萨赫特勒本的电脑。