WASHINGTON — The F.B.I. is subjecting hundreds of its employees who were born overseas or have relatives or friends there to an aggressive internal surveillance program that started after Sept. 11, 2001, to prevent foreign spies from coercing newly hired linguists but that has been greatly expanded since then.
华盛顿——联邦调查局(FBI)对在海外出生，或者有亲友在海外的数百名员工，开展了严格的内部核查。这个内部监控项目始于2001年9月11日之后，起初目的是防止外国间谍对新聘请的语言专家进行胁迫。但是，后来该项目的规模已经大大扩展。
The program has drawn criticism from F.B.I. linguists, agents and other personnel with foreign language and cultural skills, and with ties abroad. They complain they are being discriminated against by a secretive “risk-management” plan that the agency uses to guard against espionage. This limits their assignments and stalls their careers, according to several employees and their lawyers.
这个项目也受到了FBI的语言专家、特工，以及其他拥有外国语言、文化技能和海外关系的人员的批评。他们抱怨，FBI一项旨在防止间谍活动的秘密“风险管理”项目，对他们构成了歧视。几名员工及他们的律师表示，这个项目限制了他们的工作机会，并阻碍了他们的职业发展。
Employees in the program — called the Post-Adjudication Risk Management plan, or PARM — face more frequent security interviews, polygraph tests, scrutiny of personal travel, and reviews of, in particular, electronic communications and files downloaded from databases.
这个项目叫做“后裁决风险管理”（Post-Adjudication Risk Management，简称PARM）项目，涵盖的员工会更频繁地受到安全质询、测谎、个人旅行核查，以及其他检查，尤其是电子通讯以及从数据库中下载的文件。
Some of these employees, including Muslim and Asian personnel who have been hired to fill crucial intelligence and counterterrorism needs, say they are being penalized for possessing the very skills and background that got them hired. They are notified about their inclusion in the program and the extra security requirements, but are not told precisely why they have been placed in it and apparently have no appeal or way out short of severing all ties with family and friends abroad.
这些员工中有些人——其中包括被聘请来从事关键情报和反恐任务的穆斯林和亚裔——声称，自己因为这些特殊技能和背景受聘，最终却因此受到了惩罚。他们被告知，自己被列入了这一项目，也得知需要遵守其他安全规定。但是没人告诉他们，为何会被列入该项目，他们似乎也没有申辩权，而且除了与国外的家人和朋友完全断绝关系以外，也没有摆脱这一项目的办法。
The authorities say those connections can pose potential national security risks, but insist placement in the program does not hurt an employee’s career.
当局表示，这些关系可能会对国家安全造成威胁，但坚称列入该项目不会损害员工的职业发展。
The F.B.I. developed the program shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks to monitor newly hired linguists with access to classified information, fearing they could fall prey to foreign spy services or terrorists. Since then, the program has more than doubled in size and now sweeps in nearly 1,000 F.B.I. personnel who have access to classified information.
在9·11袭击事件发生后，FBI立即启动了这个项目，对新聘请的能够接触机密情报的语言专家进行监控，原因是担心他们会被外国情报机构或恐怖分子利用。自那时以来，该项目的规模扩大了一倍多，如今涉及将近1000名能够接触机密信息的FBI工作人员。
Details of the little-known security plan are emerging from some angry F.B.I. employees while the nation’s spy agencies are developing new programs and standards to help detect so-called insider threats. These efforts came after the shootings at the Washington Navy Yard in 2013 by a former Navy reservist that left him and 12 other people dead, and the damaging disclosures of highly classified information by Edward J. Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor.
关于这些鲜为人知的安全计划的细节，是一些感到愤怒的FBI员工揭露的。目前，美国的情报机构正在制定新的项目和标准，来发现所谓的内部威胁。开始制定新举措的背景是，2013年，华盛顿海军造船厂发生枪击事件，袭击者是一名前海军预备役人员，此人和其他12人皆在该事件中身亡；以及前国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)披露了一些高度机密的信息，并造成了破坏性的影响。
All F.B.I. personnel with access to classified information are subject to periodic polygraph tests and other internal security measures, but some PARM participants say they face unfair scrutiny.
所有能够接触机密信息的FBI雇员都需要定期接受测谎和其他内部安全举措，但一些PARM参与者称，他们受到了不公平的对待。
“This program was good for the new hires after 9/11, but for it to be used against current employees, some with 10 or 15 years’ experience and who have proved themselves, is unacceptable,” said Gamal Abdel-Hafiz, an Egyptian-born agent in Dallas who joined the F.B.I. in 1994 as a linguist and was put in the program without warning in 2012. He said he no longer received all the top-secret information he needed to carry out his job. Others in the program said it was harder to get choice undercover or overseas assignments.
“在9·11之后，对于新招募的人员实行这一项目情有可原，但是把它用在现有的员工身上，却令人无法接受。这些人当中有些拥有10年或15年的工作经验，而且已经证明了自己，”达拉斯的贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒-哈菲兹(Gamal Abdel-Hafiz)说。在埃及出生的他于1994年作为语言专家加入了FBI，2012年在并无预先警告的情况下，他被列入了该项目。阿卜杜勒-哈菲兹说，他现在已经得不到开展工作所必需的全部绝密信息了。该项目中的其他人表示，现在被选中参与卧底或海外任务比以往更难了。
“If you’re in this program, it affects you from moving up,” said Bobby Devadoss, a Dallas lawyer who represents Mr. Abdel-Hafiz and some West Coast F.B.I. agents in the program. “You could be a superstar agent, but if you’re in this box, you’re in the box.”
“如果你被列入这个项目，就会影响你升职，”代表阿卜杜勒-哈菲兹和该项目中其他西海岸FBI特工的达拉斯律师鲍比·德瓦多斯(Bobby Devadoss)说。“你可能是一个超级特工，但是如果你被列入了这个项目，就被缚住了手脚。”
Critics say inclusion in the program is not based on performance or behavior, but on shifting, ill-defined security risks. They say they have little legal recourse as the few challenges to the program brought in federal court have been denied on national security grounds.
批评人士表示，FBI不是根据表现或行为，而是根据不断变化且并不明确的安全威胁决定将谁列入项目。批评人士表示，有少数人针对该项目提起过上诉，但联邦法院以国家安全为由否决了当事人的起诉，所以他们几乎没有通过法律手段申辩的途径。
“It would appear that agents have no idea what they do to get on the program, what they should do while on the program and what they should do to get off the program,” said Jonathan C. Moore, a New York lawyer who once represented an F.B.I. agent in the program. “Inclusion seems to be wholly discretionary, which means it could be caused by the whims of a supervisor who for whatever reason doesn’t think so highly of the agent.”
“可能会出现这种情况，特工们不知道为何被列入项目，不知道在被列入项目期间该做什么，以及如何摆脱该项目，”纽约律师乔纳森·C·莫尔(Jonathan C. Moore)说。“将谁列入项目似乎完全是随意决定的，这意味着当一名主管不论出于什么理由，对一名特工评价不高时，他可能会心血来潮，将这名特工列入项目。”莫尔曾担任过一名被列入该项目的FBI特工的代理律师。
The F.B.I. began the program in 2002 to help screen scores of contract linguists for security clearances. The authorities feared that the new employees could be manipulated or coerced to help a foreign spy agency or a terrorist group. For example, a friend or relative overseas could be threatened with harm unless the F.B.I. employee provided secret information or otherwise cooperated with the spies or terrorists.
FBI从2002年启动该项目，目的是帮助对数十名外聘的语言专家进行核查，并授予安全权限。当局担心新员工可能受到操纵或胁迫，帮助外国情报机构或恐怖组织。例如，如果FBI员工不提供机密情报，或以其他方式与间谍或恐怖分子合作，对方就威胁伤害他在海外的朋友或亲戚。
As of April 2008, 314 contract linguists were in the program, according to a Justice Department inspector general’s office report in October 2009, the only publicly available figure. From fiscal years 2005 to 2008, the F.B.I. said, six contract linguists were either suspended or lost their top-secret clearance as a result of the program’s review, according to the report.
司法部(Justice Department)督察长办公室2009年10月发布的报告显示，截至2008年4月，有314名外聘语言专家被列入项目，这是唯一的公开数据。根据该报告，FBI表示，从2005财年至2008财年，该项目致使六名外聘语言专家被停职，或丧失了参与机密工作的权限。
F.B.I. officials declined to say why those linguists had been suspended or to provide any updated statistics except to say that since the program was expanded in November 2005 to include all F.B.I. personnel, its ranks had grown to nearly 1,000 people. That is out of a total F.B.I. work force of 36,000 employees and thousands of contractors.
FBI官员拒绝说明这些语言专家为何被停职，也拒绝提供最新的统计数据，只是表示自从该项目在2005年11月得到扩展，涵盖所有FBI人员以来，涉及人员已经增加到将近1000人。这些人来自FBI的3.6万名员工，以及数千名外聘人员当中。
Senior F.B.I. officials insist that inclusion in the program is neither discriminatory nor a hurdle in career advancement, and that the enhanced scrutiny protects the agents or analysts as well as safeguards state secrets.
FBI高级官员坚称，被列入该项目既不意味着遭到了歧视，也不意味着职业发展受阻，加强审查是为了保护特工或分析人员，以及保守国家机密。
“I want to assure you that being under a PARM plan is neither an adverse action against you nor an indicator that you are a threat to the national security interests of the United States,” J. Mark Batts, who, as acting section chief in the F.B.I. security division, wrote one employee recently.
FBI安全部门代理主管J·马克·巴茨(J. Mark Batts)最近给一名工作人员写信称，“我想向你保证，被列入PARM计划并不是针对你的不利行动，也不意味着你对美国的国家安全利益构成威胁。”
“It merely means that persons in your situation may be vulnerable to pressures or outside influences brought on by association with foreign nationals, and the F.B.I. is taking prudent steps to minimize any and all risks,” Mr. Batts said in the two-page letter.
巴茨在这封长达两页的信中写道，“这只意味着，处于你这种情况的人，可能更容易因为与外籍人士有关联而承受压力，更容易受到外界影响。FBI采取了谨慎举措，要将所有风险、任何风险都降到最低。”