WASHINGTON — The flight simulator and hard drives that the pilots of Flight 370 had at their homes appear to be a dead end, yielding few clues that shed any light on whether they deliberately diverted the missing jet, according to two people briefed on the investigation.
华盛顿——据两名了解调查情况的人士透露，马航370次班机机长和副驾家中的飞行模拟器及硬盘似乎是一条死路，没能提供什么线索，无法说明他们是否蓄意改变了失踪飞机航向。
Malaysian authorities seized the devices early in their inquiry and, after initially keeping American officials at a distance, turned to the F.B.I. last week for help in analyzing them. The Malaysians were particularly interested in learning what it was that the captain of the flight apparently deleted from the simulator in the days before the plane disappeared; the F.B.I. has extensive expertise in recovering deleted computer files.
马来西亚当局在早前的调查中缴获了这些设备，刚开始没有允许美方官员接触这些设备，直到上周才请求联邦调查局(FBI)协助分析这些设备。马来西亚人格外想知道的是，在飞机消失之前的几天里，该航班的机长明显从模拟器中删除的信息到底是什么。在恢复被删除的电脑文件方面，FBI拥有丰富的专业经验。
The F.B.I.’s spokesman, Michael Kortan, said the bureau would not discuss what it had found on the hard drives because the investigation was continuing.
FBI发言人麦克尔·科坦(Michael Kortan)表示，由于调查仍在进行，FBI不会讨论其在硬盘里找到的东西。
Though investigators are still focusing on the pilots’ role in the plane’s disappearance on March 8, no concrete evidence has come to light to indicate that they sabotaged the flight.
调查人员依然在重点调查机长和副驾在3月8日班机失踪事件中扮演的角色，目前却仍未找到他们蓄意破坏飞机的确凿证据。
Nor has any physical trace of the plane been recovered from the Indian Ocean southwest of Australia, where officials have concluded that the flight must have ended in a crash. Growing numbers of floating objects have been spotted in satellite photos of the area in recent days, but search planes were unable to hunt for them on Thursday because of bad weather.
此外，人们仍未在澳大利亚西南方向的印度洋海域找到飞机的残骸。官员们断定，航班一定是坠毁在了该海域。最近几天，该海域的卫星图片显示的漂浮物越来越多，但因为天气恶劣，搜索飞机周四没能前去寻找那些漂浮物。
James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, testified Wednesday before the House Appropriations Committee that the bureau was close to completing its analysis of the pilots’ simulator and hard drives. “I have teams working really around the clock to exploit that,” Mr. Comey said. “I don’t want to say more about that in an open setting, but I expect it to be done fairly shortly. Within a day or two we will finish that work.”
周三，FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)在众议院拨款委员会(House Appropriations Committee)作证称，FBI即将完成对飞行员的模拟器和硬盘的分析。“我让几个团队几乎夜以继日地工作，进行分析，”科米说，“我不想在公开场合多说这件事情，但我预计工作很快就会结束。一两天之内，我们就能完成这项工作。”
One former senior law enforcement official briefed on the investigation cautioned that although the F.B.I. had found little on the pilots’ hard drives and simulator, there could be information on them that would be helpful to the Malaysians.
了解调查情况的一名前高级执法官员指出，尽管FBI没有从飞行员的硬盘和模拟器当中得到多少收获，但它们可能包含着一些对马来西亚有用的信息。
“Something on the drive which does not seem important today could be, when viewed with additional data obtained from the background of the individual, his other activity, interviews and data from the flight recorded,” the former official said. “Then, something that seemed like nothing may be something.”
“硬盘上有些东西现在看来不重要，结合从个人背景、他的其他活动、采访和飞行记录中获得的数据之后，就有可能变得重要，”这名前执法官员说，“然后，看似无用的东西就有可能派上用场。”
The official and the two people briefed on the investigation spoke on the condition of anonymity because they did not want to jeopardize their access to secret information.
这名官员和前述两名了解调查情况的人士都要求不具名，因为他们担心，公开身份就无法再获知秘密信息。