WASHINGTON — American intelligence agencies believe they have identified the Islamic State militant who appeared on two videotapes in which American journalists were beheaded, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said Thursday, but he declined to name the man while agents from the United States and Britain were searching for him.
华盛顿——联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)周四称，美国的多家情报机构认为，他们已经查出了在两个斩首美国记者视频中出现的那名伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS）武装分子的身份。由于美国和英国的特工正在搜寻该男子，科米拒绝透露其姓名。
Intelligence agencies have used voice-recognition technology, overhead imagery and records of Western fighters who are believed to have joined the group in the effort to identify the killer, who first appeared in a video a month ago showing the beheading of the journalist James Foley. A second gruesome video, showing the death of Steven J. Sotloff, was released about two weeks later. Both men were freelance journalists.
为了确认这名武装分子的身份，情报机构利用了语音识别技术、俯拍图像，以及据信已加入ISIS的西方武装分子的资料。一个月前，该武装分子首次出现在了记者詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)被斩首的视频中。第二则令人震惊的视频发布于约两周之后，史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)在视频中被斩首。两人都是自由记者。
For a while, British officials focused their suspicions on a rapper who they believed had gone to Syria to fight. Now “the assumption is that was wrong,” one official said.
一段时间以来，英国官员的怀疑主要集中在一名说唱歌手身上。他们认为他此前已前往叙利亚参与ISIS的武装行动。如今看来，“这个假设是错的，”一名官员说。
On Wednesday, the United States announced sanctions against a number of members of the Islamic State, including Salim Benghalem, who it identified as a fighter “who carries out executions on behalf of the group.” But he was identified as coming from France, suggesting that the two Americans were killed by someone else.
周三，美国宣布了针对几名ISIS成员的制裁，其中包括萨利姆·班哈勒姆(Salim Benghalem)。美国已确信他是一名“为ISIS执行处决任务”的武装分子。但班哈勒姆被指认出来自法国，这意味着杀害两名美国人的另有其人。
Mr. Comey also referred to a fighter with “North American-accented English” who was seen on another video titled “Flames of War.” At the end of that video, a masked man, waving a gun, speaks in fluent English as a group of men appear in the background, digging what seems to be a mass grave. The video later appears to show the men being shot from behind.
科米还提到了一名操着“北美口音的英语”的武装分子，此人曾在另一则名为“战火”(Flames of War)的视频中出现。在视频结尾，一名蒙面男子挥舞着一支枪，说着流利的英语，与此同时，背景中的一群男子似乎在挖一个集体墓穴。视频后来似乎显示，这群男子从背后遭到射杀。
Mr. Comey also discussed the airstrikes this week in Syria, but was cautious in addressing whether some of the attacks against a second terrorist organization known as the Khorasan Group had disrupted its efforts to carry out attacks in Europe or the United States.
科米还谈到了本周在叙利亚发动的空袭。他被问及针对另一个恐怖组织呼罗珊(Khorasan Group)的袭击是否打乱了其在欧洲和美国发动袭击的尝试时，出言十分谨慎。
“I believe the group still exists,” Mr. Comey said.
“我认为这个组织仍然存在，”科米说。
Earlier in the day, Iraq’s new prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, warned that the Islamic State was focused on attacks in the subways in Paris and the United States, but Mr. Comey and the National Security Council said they were not aware of any evidence supporting that charge.
当天早些时候，伊拉克新总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)警告称，ISIS正集中精力计划对巴黎和美国的地铁发动袭击，但科米以及国家安全委员会(National Security Council)称，没有看到能够支持这一说法的任何证据。
In the Foley and Sotloff videos, the masked killer, armed with a short knife, taunts President Obama and says that the beheadings are in retaliation for bombing attacks on Islamic State targets in Iraq. The killings appear to take place in the same desert location, with hills visible in the background. The executioner speaks in a British accent, which led to a focus on men who hold British passports and are believed to have joined the fight on behalf of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.
在弗利和索特洛夫被斩首的视频中，那名配有短刀的蒙面武装分子对奥巴马总统进行了嘲讽，称斩首是为了报复美国对在伊拉克的ISIS目标的轰炸。这两次斩首似乎发生在同一个沙漠地点，视频中可以看见远处的山峦。该武装分子有英国口音，这导致搜寻的重点一直集中于持有英国护照且据信代表ISIS参战的男子。
President Obama referred briefly to the beheadings of the two journalists and a third killing, of a British aid worker, during his speech on Wednesday to the United Nations General Assembly. “In the most horrific crimes imaginable, innocent human beings have been beheaded, with videos of the atrocity distributed to shock the conscience of the world,” he said.
周三在联合国大会上发表演讲时，奥巴马总统简要地提到了两名记者被斩首，以及一名英国人道援助工作者遇害的事件。“斩首无辜者，并发布暴行视频，来让全世界有良知的人感到震惊，这是人类能够想象的最令人发指的罪行。”