For more than a year, an FBI inquiry into allegations that Lawrence G. Nassar, a respected sports doctor, had molested three elite teenage gymnasts followed a plodding pace as it moved back and forth among agents in three cities. The accumulating information included instructional videos of the doctor’s unusual treatment methods, showing his ungloved hands working about the private areas of girls lying facedown on tables.
一年多来，对劳伦斯·G·纳萨尔(Lawrence G. Nassar)这名有声望的运动医生被指控猥亵三名优秀的年轻体操运动员一事，FBI的调查进展缓慢，在三个城市的特工之间反复来回。不断累积的信息包括这名医生非同寻常的治疗法视频，视频中他未佩戴手套，触摸趴在台子上的女孩的私处。
But as the inquiry moved with little evident urgency, a cost was being paid. The New York Times has identified at least 27 girls and women who say Nassar molested them between July 2015, when he first fell under FBI scrutiny, and September 2016, when he was exposed by an Indianapolis Star investigation. Some are among the youngest of the now-convicted predator’s many accusers — 265, and counting.
但调查进行得不疾不徐，这让人付出了代价。《纽约时报》核实，自2015年7月纳萨尔开始受到FBI监视起至2016年9月被《印第安纳波利斯星报》(Indianapolis Star)的调查报道披露，至少有27名女孩和女人称在这段时间曾遭到纳萨尔的猥亵。其中包括现已确认的诸多指控者当中——共计265人，而且这个数字还不断增加——最年轻的几位。
The three alleged victims then at the center of the FBI’s inquiry were world-class athletes; two were Olympic gold medalists. Nearly a year passed before agents interviewed two of the young women.
当时，处在FBI调查中心的三名指称受害人都是世界级运动员，其中两名是奥运金牌得主。过去了将近一年，特工才与其中两位年轻女性进行了谈话。
The silence at times drove the victims and their families to distraction, including Gina Nichols, the mother of the gymnast initially known as “Athlete A”: Maggie Nichols, who was not contacted by the FBI for nearly 11 months after the information she provided sparked the federal inquiry.
毫无动静有时候会令受害者和她们的家人发狂，其中有起初被称作“运动员A”的体操运动员玛吉·尼科尔斯(Maggie Nichols)的母亲——吉娜·尼科尔斯(Gina Nichols)，她提供的信息引发了联邦调查，但在此之后，将近11个月以来她都没得到FBI的联系。
“I never got a phone call from the police or the FBI” during that time, Gina Nichols, a registered nurse, said. “Not one person. Not one. Not one. Not one.”
那段时间“我从没接到过警察或FBI的电话”，身为注册护士的吉娜·尼科尔斯说。“没有一个人。一个都没有。一个都没有。一个都没有。”
The FBI declined to answer detailed questions about the speed and nature of its investigation or to provide an official who might put the case in context. Instead, it issued a 112-word statement asserting that the sexual exploitation of children “is an especially heinous crime” and that “the safety and well-being of our youth is a top priority for the FBI.”
FBI拒绝回答有关其调查速度和性质细节的提问，也拒绝提供一名能解释案情的官员，而是签发了一份112个词的声明，宣称对儿童的性剥削“是一项极其令人发指的罪行”，且“保证青少年的安全和福祉是FBI的第一要务”。
The statement also said the many allegations against Nassar “transcended jurisdictions” — an apparent suggestion that internal efforts to coordinate among its bureaus and with other law enforcement agencies partly explained the inquiry’s slow tempo.
这份声明还表示，许多针对纳萨尔的指控都“超越了管辖权”——这显然暗示了FBI内部各部门和各执法机构之间正在通力合作，并且部分解释了调查进展缓慢的原因。
The agency left unaddressed the oft-repeated claim by USA Gymnastics officials that after initially presenting the sexual assault allegations to the FBI in July 2015, they came away with the impression that federal agents had advised them not to discuss the case with anyone. The ensuing silence had dire consequences, as the many girls and young women still seeing Nassar received no warning.
但FBI并未提及美国体操协会(USA Gymnastics)官方反复重申的一点，即2015年7月向FBI提出最初的性侵指控后，他们记得联邦特工建议他们不要对任何人讨论此事。随后的沉默带来了可怕的后果，许多女孩和年轻女子仍去拜访纳萨尔医生，没得到任何警告。
Among them was Emma Ann Miller.
其中就有艾玛‧安·米勒(Emma Ann Miller)。
By the summer of 2015, Emma Ann, the only child of a single mother, was both a competitive dancer and just another Michigan kid immersed in the joys and dramas of middle school life. She got braces, with baby blue rubber bands that matched her eyes. She began receiving Snapchat attention from boys.
艾玛‧安是一位单身妈妈的独生女，2015年夏天的她是一名竞争意识很强的舞者，也是密歇根州一名沉浸在初中生活的快乐和刺激之中的小孩。她戴了牙套，蓝色的皮筋很配她的眼睛。在Snapchat上，她也开始得到男孩的关注。
And once a month, she went to Suite 420 in a six-story office building close to Michigan State University in East Lansing, where her solicitous doctor, who encouraged everyone to just call him Larry, molested her.
而每个月，她都会去东兰辛的密歇根州立大学(Michigan State University)附近一栋6层办公楼的420房，在这里，这位让人叫他“拉里”(Larry)就好的殷勤医生猥亵了她。
According to her lawyer, Emma Ann had about a dozen sessions with Nassar between the summers of 2015 and 2016. The pain of the procedures increased, and her self-confidence plummeted.
据她的律师称，从2015年夏至2016年夏，艾玛‧安在纳萨尔那里大约进行了12个疗程。在过程中，痛苦在增加，她的自信在骤降。
“Whenever he asked if my lower back hurt, he would always find a way to touch me down there,” she said, explaining that Nassar would say that her pelvis was in need of adjustment. “Whether or not I said my back hurt, he would always find a way to, to ...”
“不论他什么时候问我后腰疼不疼，他都能找到办法摸我下面，”她说，并解释说，纳萨尔会说她的骨盆需要调整。“不论我有没有说后背疼，他都会有办法去、去……”
The young girl paused.
这位年轻女孩沉默了。
“I think I’ve blocked out a lot of what he did to me,” she said finally.
“我想我已经在努力抹去很多他对我做过的事，”她最后说。
Only three years ago, Nassar was a popular doctor among the athletes he treated for USA Gymnastics. His treatments were also in demand at Michigan State, where he worked, as well as at a gymnastics academy called Twistars.
仅在三年前，纳萨尔在他治疗过的美国体操协会运动员中还是个受欢迎的医生。他工作所在的密歇根州立大学也需要他的治疗，一所叫Twistars的体操学校也是。
Issues had cropped up: a parent raising concerns about his behavior at Twistars; a female athlete or two at Michigan State complaining to no avail about inappropriate exams. In 2014, a university investigation of another complaint cleared Nassar of misconduct, but he was now required to have a third person present when treatment involved sensitive areas of the body — and to wear gloves.
问题已经出现了：Twistars学校的一名家长对他的行为提出了担心；密歇根州立大学有一两名女运动员对不适当的检查表示抗议但无济于事。2014年，大学对另一起投诉所做的调查认为纳萨尔并没有行为不端，但现在要求他在进行接触身体敏感部位的治疗时有第三方在场——还要戴上手套。
Still, the doctor was trusted enough to conduct his procedures — including one called “intravaginal adjustment” — without supervision when treating the country’s best gymnasts at the Karolyi ranch, the exclusive and secluded national team training camp, about 60 miles north of Houston. Gymnasts of international caliber, like Nichols, of suburban Minneapolis, would spend a week each month at the ranch.
尽管如此，当这名医生在休斯顿以北60英里（近100公里）处专用而隐蔽的国家队训练营——卡罗里伊美国体操队训练中心(Karolyi ranch)治疗全国最优秀的体操运动员时，他还是被给予了足够的信任，在没人监督的情况下进行治疗，其中包括一项叫“阴道内调整”的操作。像尼科尔斯这样来自明尼阿波利斯郊区的国际体操精英，每个月都会在训练中心度过一周的时间。
There, in late spring of 2015, Nichols’ personal coach, Sarah Jantzi, overheard the 17-year-old girl talking with another elite gymnast, Aly Raisman, about Nassar’s invasive and inappropriate techniques. The alarming information was quickly shared with the girls’ parents and, by June 17, with officials at USA Gymnastics.
至此，到了2015年春末，尼科尔斯的私人教练萨拉·杨奇(Sarah Jantzi)无意间听到了这名17岁的女孩和另一名优秀的体操运动员阿莉·雷斯曼(Aly Raisman)在谈论纳萨尔侵入性的和不适当的手法。女孩的父母很快得知了这令人震惊的信息，美国体操协会的官员也于6月17日得知了此事。
Gina Nichols, Maggie’s mother, recalled telling Steve Penny, then the president of USA Gymnastics, that the police had to be called immediately. But he insisted that she not tell anyone, she said. The organization would take care of alerting law enforcement.
玛吉的母亲吉娜·尼克尔斯回忆说，自己当时告诉美国体操协会时任主席史蒂夫·潘尼(Steve Penny)，必须立刻打电话给警察。但他坚持要她不告诉任何人，由该组织负责通知执法部门。
Weeks of silence passed, Gina Nichols said, although the U.S. Olympic Committee has said USA Gymnastics reported one of its physicians had been accused of abusing athletes “and was in the process of contacting the appropriate law enforcement authorities.”
之后，吉娜·尼科尔斯说，接下来的几周毫无消息。虽然美国奥委会表示，美国体操协会曾报告说一名医生被指控虐待运动员，“并且正在与适当的执法机构联系”。
USA Gymnastics eventually retained what it called “an experienced female investigator.” The investigator recommended Friday, July 24, that Nassar be reported to law enforcement.
美国体操协会最终雇用了一位他们所说的“资深女性调查员”。此人于7月24日星期五建议向执法部门举报纳萨尔。
On Monday, July 27, gymnastics officials contacted the FBI in Indianapolis, where USA Gymnastics has its headquarters. The next day, its chairman, Paul Parilla, and Penny met with FBI agents who, they later said, assured them they had come to the right place. Forty-one days had passed since USA Gymnastics first received the report of the sexual abuse of one of its charges.
7月27日星期一，体操官员联系了FBI在印第安纳波利斯的办公室，这里是美国体操协会总部的所在地。第二天，协会主席保罗·帕里拉(Paul Parilla)和彭尼会见了FBI特工，他们后来说，特工们向他们保证，这件事来找他们是正确的选择。此时，距离美国体操队第一次接到包括性虐待在内的多项指控已经过去了41天。
The gymnastics officials provided the agents with contact information for three gymnasts: Nichols, Raisman and someone emerging as the central complainant: McKayla Maroney, then 19, a retired Olympic gold medalist.
体操官员向FBI特工提供了三名体操运动员的联系信息：尼科尔斯、雷斯曼和一名新近出现的核心申诉人：退役的奥运金牌得主、当时19岁的麦凯拉·马罗尼(McKayla Maroney)。
They also turned over copies of videos of Nassar demonstrating his technique as he chatted clinically about pulled hamstrings, buttocks and trigger points. Reporters for The New York Times have seen the videos, which show him kneading the legs of girls before his ungloved hands begin to work under a towel, between the girls’ legs.
他们还提交了纳萨尔展示治疗技术的录像副本，他在其中从临床角度谈了腿后肌群拉伤、臀部和激痛点。《纽约时报》的记者看到了这些录像，其中显示，在为女孩们按摩双腿之前，他用没戴手套的双手在女孩们遮盖着毛巾的双腿之间做着什么动作。
“It’s not a fun place to dig,” Nassar says to the camera.
“这不是什么好玩的地方，”纳萨尔对着摄像机说。
Nassar first molested Emma Ann Miller when she was 10, she recalled. She was having back and neck issues, and he had her remove her leggings and put on loose shorts. In a medical supply room that doubled as a treatment room, he began exploring “down there.”
艾玛·安·米勒回忆，纳萨尔在她10岁时对她实施了第一次骚扰。当时她的背部和颈部不舒服，他让她脱下紧身裤，穿上宽松的短裤。在一个兼做治疗室的医疗用品室里，他开始探查她的“下面”。
“He was like, ‘Is this OK?’ and I was like, ‘I don’t know,'” she said. “And he was like, ‘Just hang in there.’ I didn’t know how it felt. I just knew that it hurt.”
“他说：‘这样行吗？’我说，‘我不知道，’”她说。“然后他说，“忍一下。”我说不清是什么感觉。我只知道那儿很疼。”
At some point, Emma Ann told her mother that she preferred not to be alone with Nassar. But he continued to abuse her, she said, while positioning himself so that her mother couldn’t see what he was doing.
艾玛·安后来告诉母亲，她希望尽可能不和纳萨尔独处。但她说他继续虐待她，而且他还巧妙地站好位置，让她的母亲看不到他在做什么。
Emma Ann now knows that she was not alone.
艾玛·安现在知道她并不是唯一的一个。
In late July or early August of 2015, FBI agents interviewed Maroney by phone. It was the first substantive interview of an alleged victim of child molestation.
在2015年7月下旬或8月上旬，联邦调查局特工通过电话对马罗尼进行问询。这是自称受猥亵的儿童受害者第一次接受实质性问询。
Meanwhile, Nichols and Raisman had received no word from any law enforcement official about the allegations now lodged with the FBI.
与此同时，尼科尔斯和雷斯曼并没有从任何执法官员那里收到任何联邦调查局已接到报案的消息。
Some of the delay appears to have been related to questions concerning federal-versus-state jurisdiction, as well as jurisdiction within the FBI itself. Although the Indianapolis bureau had received the information, the alleged sexual abuse by Nassar had taken place in Texas, at the Karolyi ranch, and in Michigan, where he lived and worked. And Maroney lived in California.
有些延误似乎与联邦与州司法权冲突的问题，以及联邦调查局本身的司法权有关。虽然印第安纳波利斯分局收到了信息，但纳萨尔被控的性虐待发生在德克萨斯州的卡罗伊牧场，以及他生活和工作的密歇根州。马罗尼住在加利福尼亚州。
According to his agents did not have the case for long. “When we consulted with the U.S. attorney, we knew right away that we would not have venue,” he said. “It was never really our case.”
据当时在FBI印第安纳波利斯分局负责此案的特工W·杰·阿伯特(W. Jay Abbott)称，此案在他手中并没有待多久。“在咨询了联邦检察官后，我们立即意识到案发地不在我们这里，”他说。“这从一开始就不是我们的案子。”
USA Gymnastics officials said that around this time they were told that pertinent interviews had been completed and that the case had been transferred to another jurisdiction. Indeed, on Sept. 12, Maroney was directed by USA Gymnastics to contact the FBI East Lansing office.
体操协会官员说，大约在这个时期，他们被告知相关问询已经完成，案件已经转移到另一个司法管辖区。事实上，9月12日，马罗尼在美国体操协会指示下，联系了联邦调查局东兰辛办公室。
Two weeks later, on Sept. 27, Nassar announced on Facebook that he was retiring from the women’s national team staff.
两周后的9月27日，纳萨尔在Facebook上宣布他将退出女子体操国家队的工作人员团队。
In April 2016, Raisman shared a gold medal with the national team at the Pacific Rim Championships in Seattle, while Nichols damaged a knee during training, underwent surgery and was out for several weeks. Meanwhile, neither she nor her parents heard anything about the federal investigation that USA Gymnastics had instructed them to remain silent about.
2016年4月，雷斯曼在西雅图环太平洋锦标赛上与国家队一起获得团体金牌，而尼科尔斯在训练中膝盖受伤，接受了手术，缺席数周。这段时期内，她和父母都没有听到联邦调查的任何音讯，而美国体操指示他们对该项调查保持沉默。
Finally, the absence of information about the federal investigation prompted Penny and Parilla, the USA Gymnastics officials, to visit the FBI’s Los Angeles bureau in early May.
最后，由于迟迟没有得到同联邦调查有关的信息，美国体操官员佩尼和帕里拉在5月初访问了联邦调查局的洛杉矶分局。
“As time passed, concern about a perceived lack of development prompted Board Chair Paul Parilla and CEO Steve Penny to report the matter a second time to a different FBI office,” USA Gymnastics said in a statement to The Times on Friday.
“随着时间的推移，由于感觉到事态没有进展，董事会主席保罗·帕里拉和首席执行官史蒂夫·潘尼再次向联邦调查局办公室报告此事，”美国体操协会于周五在一份声明中表示。
On May 17, the FBI finally interviewed Maroney in person. It had been 294 days since the FBI was first notified of accusations against Nassar.
5月17日，联邦调查局终于问询了马罗尼本人。此时距离联邦调查局第一次接到对纳萨尔的指控，已经过去了294天。
On Sept. 12, 2016, The Indianapolis Star published an in-depth investigation detailing allegations that Nassar had repeatedly molested two gymnasts when they were young.
2016年9月12日，《印第安纳波利斯星报》发表了一篇深入调查，详细描述了对纳萨尔在两名体操运动员年轻时多次猥亵她们的指控。
Suddenly, the Nassar case took on urgency.
突然间，纳萨尔案变得紧迫起来。
By the close of 2016, Nassar was in custody. By the close of 2017, he had been convicted. Given that he has been sentenced to nearly 2 centuries in prison, Nassar will likely die there.
2016年底，纳萨尔被拘捕；2017年底被定罪。鉴于他被判处近两个世纪的监禁，纳萨尔很可能会死在狱中。