WASHINGTON — F.B.I. investigators suspect that the wife of the Orlando gunman, Omar Mateen, might have been aware that he was plotting an attack, and the agency is trying to determine her level of involvement, a senior law enforcement official said Tuesday.
华盛顿——一名执法部门高级官员于周二透露，联邦调查局(FBI)办案人员怀疑，奥兰多枪手奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)的妻子可能知道他的袭击计划，他们正试图明确她在此事中的参与程度。
The wife, Noor Zahi Salman, told the F.B.I. that she had driven him to the Pulse nightclub at some point before the attack and that she had also been with him when he bought ammunition, the official said. But she also said she had tried to talk him out of waging an attack, the official said.
该官员表示，枪手的妻子努尔·扎希·萨尔曼(Noor Zahi Salman)对FBI说，袭击前她曾开车载着他去过Pulse夜店，在他购买弹药时，她也在身边。但是官员表示，她还说她曾试图劝马廷不要发起袭击。
Her statements were first reported by NBC News.
NBC新闻(NBC News)首先报道了她的供词。
“There’s an indication that she was with him in certain parts of the process, and we’re sorting through it,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is at an early stage. “We don’t know what’s true and what’s not.”
“有迹象表明，她在全过程的某些时段是和他在一起的，我们正在排查，”该官员说，由于调查尚在初期阶段，他要求匿名接受采访。“我们还不知道哪些是真的哪些是假的。”
Ms. Salman is not in custody, the official said. While a person who withholds knowledge of a crime could face criminal charges, she is not facing imminent arrest, and no decisions have been made on whether she might be prosecuted, the official said.
他说萨尔曼并未受到羁押。对犯罪知情不报会面临刑事指控，但他说她近期不会遭到逮捕，也没有决定是否对她发起检控。
Mr. Mateen’s first marriage ended in divorce, and his ex-wife said after the shooting rampage that he had beaten her during their time together and isolated her from family and friends.
马廷的第一段婚姻以离婚告终，他的前妻在案发后说，他们在一起生活的那段时间里，他曾经打过她，并且不让她和自己的家人、朋友来往。
In Northern California, neighbors of Ms. Salman’s family gave a similar account of Mr. Mateen’s controlling ways.
在北加州，萨尔曼家人的邻居对马廷霸道的行事方式有着类似的陈述。
Ms. Salman’s mother, Ekbal Zahi Salman, had complained to a neighbor that Ms. Salman, her eldest daughter, wanted to come home to visit her parents and younger sisters, but that Mr. Mateen had forbidden her. Only once did he allow her to return to her family home in Rodeo, a San Francisco suburb, and that was a few years ago when her father was dying, neighbors said.
萨尔曼的母亲埃克巴尔·扎西·萨尔曼(Ekbal Zahi Salman)曾向一位邻居抱怨，长女萨尔曼想要回家看看父母和妹妹们，但马廷禁止她这样做。邻居们说，马廷唯一一次允许萨尔曼回到位于旧金山郊区罗迪欧的娘家，是在几年前萨尔曼的父亲弥留之际。
Jasbinder Chahal, a friend of the family who lives across the street, said that not long ago, Ms. Salman’s mother had told her that Ms. Salman, her young son and Mr. Mateen went to Disney World, in Orlando.
住在街对面的萨尔曼家的朋友贾斯宾德·察哈尔(Jasbinder Chahal)说，不久前，萨尔曼的母亲曾经告诉她，萨尔曼和幼子以及马廷一起去了奥兰多的迪士尼乐园(Disney World)。
On Monday night, Ms. Chahal said, she visited the Salman house and found the mother crying. “She can’t contact her daughter,” Ms Chahal said. “She doesn’t know where she is. She’s texting, and she’s not returning her texts.”
察哈尔说她周一晚上去了萨尔曼家，看到萨尔曼的母亲正在哭泣。“她联系不上女儿，”察哈尔说。“她不知道女儿在哪儿。她一直发短信，女儿却没有回复。”
Ms. Salman grew up in a devout Muslim family originally from a Palestinian community, and every summer the family returned to there. The mother wears a hijab, and the family observes Ramadan.
萨尔曼成长于一个虔诚的穆斯林家庭。这家人最初来自一个巴勒斯坦社区，每年夏天都要回到那里。萨尔曼的母亲佩戴头巾，这家人会过斋月。
This was Noor Salman’s second marriage. Hardeep Ahluwalia, another neighbor, said that years ago, the family had rented out its house, returning to the Middle East. It was around that time, he said, that Ms. Salman’s parents arranged a marriage for her. She may have been 19 or 20, Ms. Chahal said. The marriage did not work out.
这是努尔·萨尔曼(Noor Salman)的第二场婚姻。另一位邻居哈迪普·阿卢瓦利亚(Hardeep Ahluwalia)说，多年前，这家人曾把房子出租出去，重返中东。他说，在那期间，萨尔曼的父母为她安排了一门婚事。她当时可能只有19岁或20岁。那场婚姻没能长久。
Ms. Chahal said that inside the Salmans’ avocado-colored two-story home, Ms. Salman’s mother had kept a close watch on her four daughters, driving them to school and picking them up. None of the girls were allowed to drive, Ms. Chahal said. And “they did not allow boys to go to the house,” she said.
察哈尔说，萨尔曼的母亲曾在她家那栋两层楼的暗黄绿色房屋里严加管教四个女儿，开车送她们去学校再接她们回来。几个女孩都不被允许开车，察哈尔说，而且“他们也不允许男孩子上门”。