Moving closer to a decision on whether to ban menthol in cigarettes, the Food and Drug Administration released a scientific review on Tuesday that found the mint flavoring made it easier to start smoking and harder to quit, and solicited public comment on “potential regulation” of menthol flavored cigarettes.
美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）在周二发布了一项科学评估报告，报告显示，薄荷调味剂使人更容易开始吸烟且更不容易戒烟。该机构即将决定是否禁止在香烟中使用薄荷醇，同时邀请公众对薄荷味香烟“可能受到的管制”发表评论。
These steps pleased smoking opponents who have been calling for F.D.A. action since 2009, when Congress exempted menthol from a ban on flavors in cigarettes, leaving the agency to decide whether its use is a danger to public health. Menthol cigarettes account for about a third of all cigarettes sold in the United States and are particularly popular among black smokers, about four out of five of whom report smoking them, according to federal surveys.
这些进展让反烟人士很高兴。自2009年以来，这些人一直在呼吁FDA采取行动。当时，国会决定禁止在香烟中使用调味剂，但是薄荷醇并未被纳入其中，这样一来，它的使用是否构成公共健康威胁，就交由FDA来裁决了。在美国售出的所有香烟中，薄荷醇香烟占了大约三分之一，而且它在黑人烟民中尤其受欢迎。根据一些联邦调查数据，大约五分之四的黑人烟民表示自己吸薄荷醇香烟。
Still, the action was only an intermediate step in what advocates say has been a prolonged regulatory process and comes at a time when menthol smoking rates for young adults have been increasing.
然而在这个倡导人士认为已经过分迟缓的管制过程中，此举只是间接性的一步，而目前年轻成人吸薄荷醇香烟的比例一直在增加。
Many had expected the F.D.A. to act on menthol in 2011 after a Congressionally mandated committee of outside experts, convened by the agency, found that menthol had a negative effect on public health. The findings by the agency on Tuesday echoed those conclusions, leaving smoking opponents frustrated that it had not clearly signaled an intent to ban menthol.
很多人曾期望FDA会在2011年对薄荷醇采取行动。当时，国会任命了一个由外部专家（这些人由FDA召集）组成的委员会，该组织发现薄荷醇会给公众健康带来负面影响。FDA周二的发现刚好与这些结论相吻合，但是让反对吸烟者颇为沮丧的是，FDA并未明确表现出禁止薄荷醇的意愿。
“This is either a way to take the heat off, or the beginning of a meaningful process,” said Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, an advocacy group. “That’s the book the jury is still out on.”
“这样做要么只是为了缓解压力，要么就意味着此事进入了一个切实的环节，”倡议组织无烟草青少年运动(Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids)的负责人马修·L·迈尔斯(Matthew L. Myers)说。“他们在这上面还是存在分歧。”
Mitchell Zeller, the new director of the drug agency’s Center for Tobacco Products, said the steps the agency took Tuesday showed that it was moving forward as fast as it could, but he emphasized that they did not foreshadow a ban. The public comment period will be open for 60 days.
FDA烟草制品中心(Center for Tobacco Products)新任负责人米切尔·泽勒(Mitchell Zeller)说，FDA周二的举措表明该机构正在尽快采取行动，但他强调这并不意味着他们将禁止薄荷醇的使用。公开评论将开放60天。
“The F.D.A. is a regulatory agency,” Mr. Zeller said on a conference call with journalists. “As a regulatory agency, we can only go as far as the regulatory science will take us.”
“FDA是一个管理机构，”泽勒在与记者举行电话会议时说。“作为管理机构，我们只能按照管理规律行事。”
Lorillard, the biggest manufacturer of menthol cigarettes in the United States, said in a statement that “the best available science demonstrates that menthol cigarettes have the same health effects as nonmenthol cigarettes and should be treated no differently.”
美国最大的薄荷醇香烟制造商罗瑞拉德(Lorillard)在声明中说，“目前最权威的科学表明，薄荷醇香烟对健康的影响和非薄荷醇香烟一样，所以不应该被区别对待。”
Indeed, the F.D.A.’s review found that menthol cigarettes did not increase the risk of disease compared with smoking nonmenthol cigarettes. The agency did find, however, that the mint flavoring made people more likely to start smoking, and led to greater dependence on nicotine and decreased rates of quitting, conclusions that opponents of smoking say should spur the agency to action.
的确，FDA的审核发现，与吸非薄荷醇香烟相比，吸含薄荷醇的香烟并不会增加患病风险。然而，FDA确实发现薄荷味会让人更容易开始吸烟、增加对尼古丁的依赖性，而且会降低戒烟率。反对吸烟者认为，这些结论应该起到敦促FDA采取行动的作用。
Mr. Myers said the timing of the announcement was most likely linked to an international trade dispute. The United States has until Wednesday to comply with a World Trade Organization ruling that the American ban on clove cigarettes under the 2009 law violated Indonesia’s trade rights if the United States itself continued to allow the sale of menthol-flavored cigarettes.
迈尔斯说，之所以选择这个时机来发表声明很可能是与一起国际贸易争端有关。世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)裁定，倘若美国仍然允许薄荷味香烟的销售，那么美国根据2009年的法规禁止丁香烟的做法就侵犯了印尼的贸易权利。美国必须在周三前作出服从裁决结果的行动。
Indonesia, a maker of clove cigarettes, brought the suit. The United States contended that menthol posed a different public health risk, but the trade organization did not accept its argument.
提起诉讼的印尼是丁香烟的制造国。美国称薄荷醇香烟对公众健康的威胁与丁香烟不同，但世贸组织并不接受这种说法。
Menthol flavoring makes an otherwise harsh cigarette more palatable for young people who are first-time smokers, smoking opponents say. And while smoking rates have been declining across the nation, rates for menthol cigarettes among 18- to 25-year-olds have climbed — to 16 percent in 2010 from 13 percent in 2004, according to a 2011 federal report.
反对吸烟者认为，对于第一次吸烟的年轻人来说，薄荷味使香烟原本刺激的味道变得更令人享受了。而且，虽然美国的吸烟率一直在降低，但是18岁至25岁的年轻人吸薄荷醇香烟的比率却升高了——根据2011年的联邦报告，这个比例已经由2004年的13%上升到了2010年的16%。
Young blacks are particularly vulnerable, smoking opponents say. More than three-quarters of black adolescent and young adult smokers use Newports, a menthol cigarette produced by Lorillard, according to a 2004 study.
反对吸烟者说，年轻黑人尤其容易受到影响。2004年的一份研究表明，超过四分之三的黑人青少年和年轻成年黑人烟民都经常吸新港(Newports)牌香烟，这是罗瑞拉德生产的一种薄荷醇香烟。
A 2011 study led by a Stanford University researcher found that stores within walking distance of California high schools attended by large numbers of black students were more likely to advertise menthol cigarettes. It also found that Newports, the most popular brand of menthol cigarettes, tended to be cheaper.
2011年，由斯坦福大学(Stanford University)研究人员领导的一项研究发现，一些处于加利福尼亚州高中步行距离内的商店经常有大批黑人学生光顾，这些商店更倾向于推广薄荷醇香烟。研究还发现，最受欢迎的薄荷醇香烟品牌新港的价格通常较低。
Lorillard disagreed with the conclusion, saying that it marketed its products “uniformly throughout California,” and that retailers themselves set prices.
罗瑞拉德不同意这个结论，说它对公司产品的营销策略“在整个加利福尼亚州都一样，”价格都是零售商自己定的。
The issue of race has complicated discussions of menthol, said Valerie Yerger, a researcher at the University of California, San Francisco, who provided testimony to the drug agency and its expert panel in 2010. Several black groups lobbied against a ban on grounds that it would discriminate against blacks, since a larger proportion of them prefer menthol cigarettes.
加州大学旧金山分校(University of California, San Francisco)的研究员瓦莱丽·耶杰(Valerie Yerger)表示，种族问题让关于薄荷醇的讨论复杂化了。耶杰曾于2010年为FDA及其专家委员会提供证词。数家黑人团体游说反对颁布禁令，理由是这是对黑人的歧视，因为喜欢薄荷醇香烟的黑人比例更高。
The racial politics are delicate, experts said, though it is not clear whether they are contributing to the slowness of the regulatory process.
专家表示，种族政治相当敏感，不过尚不清楚这是不是促使监管进程放缓的因素之一。
Many smoking opponents seem willing to give Mr. Zeller, a 55-year-old lawyer named in March to lead the F.D.A.’s tobacco unit, the benefit of the doubt. He began his career at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer health advocacy group, and many smoking opponents see him as a strong public health proponent.
55岁的律师泽勒今年3月受命领导FDA的烟草部门。尽管存在疑问，许多反烟人士似乎愿意相信他。他的职业生涯始于消费者健康权益组织“公共利益科学中心”(Center for Science in the Public Interest)，而且许多反烟人士认为他是个公共健康的有力倡导者。
“I’m cautiously optimistic that he’s going to move to meaningful action on menthol,” said Joelle Lester, a Minnesota-based lawyer with the Tobacco Control Legal Consortium, a nonprofit network of legal centers for tobacco control policy.
在明尼苏达州执业的律师乔埃尔·莱斯特(Joelle Lester)说，“对于他将对薄荷醇采取切实行动这一点，我持谨慎地乐观态度。”莱斯特为研究控烟政策的法律中心组成的非盈利团体“控烟法律联盟”(Tobacco Control Legal Consortium)工作。
The F.D.A. also announced that it would conduct a public education campaign focused on young people this year, and said it was commissioning three new pieces of research related to menthol, including one on genetic differences in taste perceptions that might explain why some racial and ethnic populations are more likely to smoke menthol cigarettes.
FDA还宣布，今年将开展一项针对青少年的公众教育宣传活动，并计划委托有关机构进行三项与薄荷醇有关的新研究，其中一项关于基因差异对味觉的影响，有望解释为何某些族裔的人口更易吸薄荷醇香烟。
“The bottom line is, we need more information,” Mr. Zeller said. “We also need input from the public.”
泽勒说，“关键是，我们需要更多的信息。我们也需要公众的参与。”