Sepp Blatter, who was re-elected last week for a fifth term as president of world soccer’s governing body, said Tuesday that he would resign his position as law enforcement officials confirmed that he was a focus of a federal corruption investigation.
上周第五次当选世界足球管理机构主席的赛普·布拉特(Sepp Blatter)周二表示将辞去自己的职务；此前，执法官员已经确定他是一起联邦腐败调查案的核心人物。
Mr. Blatter had for days tried to distance himself from the controversy, but several United States officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that in their efforts to build a case against Mr. Blatter they were hoping to win the cooperation of some of the FIFA officials now under indictment and work their way up the organization.
数天以来，布拉特一直试图与此次争议保持距离，但几名美国官员匿名表示，为了搜集针对布拉特的证据，他们希望目前被起诉的一些国际足联(FIFA)官员能提供合作，从而对该组织进行调查。
In a short speech delivered at the headquarters of FIFA, which oversees global soccer, Mr. Blatter said that “FIFA needs a profound restructuring” and that he had decided to step away from the organization for which he had worked in various positions for 40 years. Mr. Blatter, 79, who spoke in French, then referred to his recent re-election by FIFA’s 209 member nations when he said, “Although the members of FIFA have given me the new mandate, this mandate does not seem to be supported by everybody in the world of football.”
FIFA是国际足球运动的管理机构。布拉特在FIFA总部发表的一次简短讲话中称，“FIFA需要一次深刻的重组”，而且他决定离开这个他工作了40年的机构。他曾在FIFA担任多种职务。79岁的布拉特用法语发表了讲话，随后还提到自己再次被FIFA的209个成员国选为主席一事。他当时表示，“尽管FIFA成员国给了我新的授权，但这个授权似乎并未得到足球界所有人的支持。”
Mr. Blatter’s resignation is not immediate; according to Domenico Scala, the independent chairman of FIFA’s audit and compliance committee, who spoke to the news media after Mr. Blatter, a special meeting of FIFA’s member nations will be called to elect a new president. According to FIFA’s rules, there must be at least four months’ notice given to members for such a meeting, so Mr. Scala indicated that the likely window for a new election is from December 2015 to March 2016.
布拉特不会马上离职；FIFA审计与合规委员会的独立主席多梅尼科·斯卡拉(Domenico Scala)在布拉特之后对媒体发表了讲话。他表示，为了选举新主席，FIFA成员国将召开一次特别会议。根据FIFA规定，如果要召开一次这样的会议，必须至少提前四个月通知成员国。所以斯卡拉表示，新的选举很可能会在2015年12月至2016年3月举行。
Mr. Blatter will continue his duties in the meantime, but will focus on a program of reform that he said would be driven by Mr. Scala.
在此期间，布拉特将继续履行职责，不过，他的工作重点将放在一个改革计划上。他曾表示该项目将由斯卡拉推进。
“For years, we have worked hard to put in place administrative reforms, but it is plain to me that while these must continue, they are not enough,” Mr. Blatter said. “We need deep-rooted structural change.”
“多年以来，我们一直努力实施行政改革，但我非常清楚，这些改革必须要进行下去，它们仍然是不够的，”布拉特说。“我们需要深层次的结构改革。”
Mr. Blatter mentioned several components of reform that he found necessary, including a reshaping of the powerful executive committee. In a somewhat strange twist, given his lengthy presence as FIFA’s leader, he also noted the importance of term limits.
布拉特提到了他觉得必要的改革的几个组成部分，包括重新组建一个强大的执行委员会。他还提到了任期限制的重要性，考虑到他一直长期担任FIFA领导人，这一动向让人有些意外。
Mr. Scala, in his remarks, said “nothing will be off the table” in terms of reforms for FIFA, whose image has been undeniably marred by the seemingly constant shadow of controversy. Changes could include a greater focus on transparency — including publishing the compensation earned by the president and executive committee members — as well as more stringent and uniform integrity checks, a proposal which had been previously suggested, and rejected, by members.
斯卡拉在讲话中说，在FIFA的改革方面，“没有什么是不能讨论的”。FIFA的形象已经不可否认地受到了似乎持续不断的争议的影响。改革的内容将包括对加强透明度——公开主席和执行委员会成员的工资——以及更加严格和统一的诚信核查，该提议以前就有成员建议过，但被否决。
“There is significant work to be done in order to regain the trust of the public and to fundamentally reform the way in which people see FIFA,” Mr. Scala said. “These steps will ensure that the organization cannot be used by those seeking to enrich themselves at the expense of the game.”
“为了获得公众的信任，彻底改变人们对FIFA的看法，还有很多工作要做，”斯卡拉说。“这些措施会确保FIFA不被那些为求自肥而不惜牺牲足球运动的人利用。”