Ivanka Trump briefly sat in for her father, President Trump, during a session on Saturday at the Group of 20 summit meeting in Hamburg, Germany, prompting an outcry on social media and a swift defense from her brother Donald Trump Jr.
在德国汉堡“二十国集团”峰会周六的一次会面期间，伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)一度代替他的父亲特朗普总统入席，这在社交媒体上引发轩然大波，而其兄小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)也迅速出面维护妹妹。
Ms. Trump, who had been sitting in the back of the room during a discussion of topics that were relevant to her, joined the main table when Mr. Trump had to step out, a White House official said.
一位白宫官员说，伊万卡·特朗普原本坐在大厅的后方，参与一项与她有关的议题的讨论，但在特朗普总统因要事离开期间坐上了主宾席。
When other leaders left the table, their seats were also filled by others in their delegations, the official added.
该官员还称，其他领导人离席时，他们的代表团也会派员入席顶替。
But Ms. Trump’s appearance riled the president’s critics, who have questioned the role that Mr. Trump’s family members play in the administration. Ms. Trump serves as a senior adviser to the president. Her husband, Jared Kushner, is also a senior adviser and the head of the new Office of American Innovation.
但是伊万卡·特朗普的出现令总统的批评者大为恼怒，纷纷质疑特朗普总统的家人在政府中扮演的角色。伊万卡·特朗普是总统的高级顾问。她的丈夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)也是一名高级顾问，另外兼任新成立的美国创新办公室(Office of American Innovation)主任。
While Mr. Trump was away from the table, his daughter sat between President Xi Jinping of China and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.
特朗普总统离席期间，他的女儿坐在了中国的习近平主席和英国的特丽莎‧梅(Theresa May)首相之间。
A Russian official, Svetlana Lukash, captured the moment in a photograph and posted it on Twitter. Though she later deleted the tweet, the image lived on in a screenshot that riled up some on both sides of the aisle.
俄罗斯官员斯维特拉娜·卢卡什(Svetlana Lukash)抓拍到这一瞬间，随后发布到Twitter上。她后来删掉了那一条推文，但图片已经以屏幕截图的形式留存下来，在左右两派阵营中都引发了一些人的愤慨之情。
Representative Ted Lieu, Democrat of California, who serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said on Twitter that based on Ms. Trump’s example, he was going to ask the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, “if my son can sit in for me at the next House Foreign Affairs Committee meeting.”
作为众议院外交委员会(House Foreign Affairs Committee)成员的加州民主党人刘云平(Ted Lieu)在Twitter上说，基于伊万卡·特朗普的所作所为，他打算问众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)，“下一次众议院外交委员会开会时，能不能由我儿子替我参会。”
Donald Jr. waded into the fray on Twitter after Ana Navarro, a Republican strategist and a frequent critic of President Trump, said she would prefer Ms. Trump as president.
共和党策略师、经常出面批评特朗普总统的阿娜·纳瓦罗(Ana Navarro)说，她宁可让伊万卡·特朗普当总统。小唐纳德随即加入Twitter战团。
“She is VERY smart & eloquent,” Donald Jr. said of his sister in a response on Twitter. “You can belittle her all you want w your snark, but we all know 1 on 1 she way out of your league.”
“她非常聪明，能言善辩，”小唐纳德发推评论他的妹妹。“随你怎么冷嘲热讽，但我们都知道，一对一你跟她根本不在一个档次上。”
Then he added: “If the left is so ‘outraged’ about Ivanka sitting in for a few minutes, maybe they’d be happier if I sub in for a while?”
接着他又说：“如果伊万卡入席几分钟就让左派‘震怒’成这样，那我去替一会儿他们会更开心吗？”
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany seemed to defend Ms. Trump’s appearance in comments after the session.
在会后的言论中，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)对伊万卡·特朗普入席一事似乎持维护的态度。
“The delegations themselves decide, should the president not be present for a meeting, who will take the chair, and Ivanka Trump was part of the American delegation,” she told reporters. “It is very well known that she works at the White House and that she is engaged in certain initiatives.”
“代表团自己会决定，如果一场会议上总统无法在场，应由谁来顶替，伊万卡·特朗普是美国代表团成员，”她对记者说。“她在白宫工作是众所周知的，她还发起了一些活动。”
Ms. Trump’s move to the main table came hours after she joined Jim Yong Kim, the president of the World Bank, to introduce the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, which aims to help women access loans and start businesses in developing countries.
在前往主宾席入座几小时前，伊万卡·特朗普和世界银行行长金墉(Jim Yong Kim)一同公布了女性创业者资金倡议(Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative)，旨在帮助女性获取贷款，在发展中国家创办企业。
President Trump announced that the United States pledged $50 million to the initiative.
特朗普总统宣布美国向该项目提供5000万美元的资金。
“I’m very proud of my daughter Ivanka, always have been from day one,” he said.
“我的女儿伊万卡让我倍感骄傲，从一开始就是这样，”他说。