HBO has linked with Apple for the start of its much-anticipated Internet streaming service, uniting two premium brands from the media and technology worlds in a quest to reinvent the way people watch television.
HBO电视网已同苹果(Apple)公司联手启动备受期待的互联网流媒体服务，媒体和科技界的两大优质品牌将携手改变人们看电视的方式。
Called “HBO Now,” the service does not require a traditional TV subscription and will be available exclusively on Apple devices when it makes its debut in early April, the companies announced on Monday during an Apple product event at the Yerba Buena Center in San Francisco.
周一，两家公司在旧金山芳草地艺术中心(Yerba Buena Center)的苹果产品推广活动上宣布，这项名为“HBO Now”的服务将于4月初推出，它不要求传统的电视订购，只能在苹果设备上播放。
Timed to coincide with the start of the new season of its most-watched series, “Game of Thrones,” the service will cost $14.99 a month and offer all of HBO’s original programming, past and present, as well as its movie offerings. People who subscribe to the service in April through Apple will receive the first month free.
这项服务推出之时，正是HBO收视率最高的电视剧《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)新一季播出之际。服务的月费为14.99美元，提供HBO过去到现在的所有原创节目和电影作品。4月份通过苹果产品订购该服务，将享受首月免费。
The exclusivity with Apple lasts for three months. HBO also is in talks with other distributors, including traditional TV providers and digital partners.
与苹果公司的独家合作只持续三个月。HBO也在与其他发行商沟通，包括传统电视网和数字合作者。
“This is a transformative moment for HBO,” Richard Plepler, HBO’s chief executive, said from the stage of the Apple event.
“对HBO来说，这是改革性的时刻，”HBO的首席执行官理查德·普莱普勒(Richard Plepler)在那次苹果活动中的演讲上说。
Anticipation for HBO’s new digital streaming service has been growing since October, when the company announced plans to start an Internet offering. The new service steps up its rivalry with digital-first streaming outlets like Netflix and Amazon. It also puts more pressure on the established television business, which takes in $170 billion a year in revenue.
去年10月，HBO宣布计划启动互联网服务后，人们对它的新数字流媒体服务愈加期待。这项新服务加剧了它与以数字为先的流媒体门户Netflix和亚马逊(Amazon)之间的竞争，加大了对传统电视业的压力，传统电视业的年收入为1700亿美元。
“This is a wake-up call to the industry,” said Rich Greenfield, a media analyst with BTIG Research. “HBO is taking its future into its own hands.”
“这给电视业敲响了警钟，”BTIG研究公司(BTIG Research)的媒体分析师里奇·格林菲尔德(Rich Greenfield)说，“HBO把未来掌握在自己手中。”
The new service is part of a growing wave of offerings this year from media, telecom and technology companies. Dish Network, the satellite provider, recently unveiled a new web-based service that includes ESPN and several other popular networks for $20 a month. CBS and Sony also are starting Internet-only subscription plans.
今年，媒体、电信和科技公司的服务浪潮日益高涨，这项新服务也是其中的一部分。卫星提供商迪什网络公司(Dish Network)最近推出了一项基于网络的新服务，用户缴纳20美元的月费可观看ESPN等几个热门电视网的节目。CBS电视网和索尼公司(Sony)也正在启动仅限互联网的订购计划。
The companies are fighting to stay relevant to a generation of so-called cord-cutters or cord-nevers, who pay for Internet access but not traditional TV subscriptions. As its target audience for HBO Now, the network has pointed to the 10 million homes in the United States with web service but no traditional cable or satellite television subscriptions — half of which are estimated to subscribe to a streaming service.
这些公司正在努力适应所谓的“断线”(cord-cutters)一代的需求，他们支付上网费，却不订购传统有线电视。HBO Now的目标观众是1000万个有网络服务却没有传统有线或卫星电视的美国家庭。据估计，其中一半会订购流媒体服务。
“That is a large and growing opportunity that can no longer be ignored,” Mr. Plepler said.
“这个商机正在不断增大，不能再忽视它了，”普莱普勒说。
The partnership with Apple came together at this time last year after HBO surveyed the market and decided that it was time to get into the streaming business. Mr. Plepler said that he called Eddy Cue, the senior Apple executive in charge of brokering deals with media companies, and pitched the idea. Mr. Cue responded by saying that the timing was impeccable.
与苹果公司的合作是去年此时开始的，当时HBO调查市场后决定进军流媒体服务。普莱普勒说，他给苹果公司的高级主管埃迪·库埃(Eddy Cue)通了电话，提出了这个想法。库埃负责安排与媒体公司的业务。他回应说，这是个绝佳时机。
“We love HBO,” Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said as he introduced Mr. Plepler at Monday’s event. “Over the years they have created groundbreaking shows that have really become a part of our culture and helped shape our culture.”
“我们非常喜欢HBO，”苹果公司的首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)在周一的活动上介绍普莱普勒时说，“这么多年来，他们创作了很多开创性的电视剧，这些电视剧真的已成为我们文化的一部分，帮助塑造了我们的文化。”
Both companies are hoping that they will benefit by being in the halo of the other. Apple will market the HBO service as part of its offerings, including its Apple TV product. The company said Monday it had sold 25 million Apple TV devices and that was cutting the price to $69 from $99.
两家公司都希望自己能从对方的光环中受益。苹果公司将把HBO的服务作为自己产品和服务的一部分进行市场推广，其中也包括苹果自己的电视产品。周一，这家公司称，它将原价99美元的苹果电视设备降价到69美元，售出了2500万个。
HBO’s three-month exclusive with Apple applies only to other digital outlets — not the traditional cable, satellite and telecom companies that currently sell HBO as part of television bundles. HBO said that it was open to offering a stand-alone streaming service with those companies and that while some have been receptive, others have resisted.
HBO与苹果的三个月独家合作仅指不与其他数字门户合作，不影响它与传统的有线电视、卫星电视和电信公司的合作，目前这些公司把HBO作为电视组合产品的一部分进行销售。HBO称，它愿意为这些公司提供独立的流媒体服务，对此有些公司表示接受，也有些表示抵制。
“Deals with our distributors are never easy, but to quote from ‘Godfather II,’ ‘This is the business we’ve chosen,’ ” Mr. Plepler said. “Our position to our partners is: Work with us. We want to help you grow your businesses.”
“跟我们的发行商打交道从来都不容易，但是就像《教父2》(Godfather II)中的那句话，‘这行当是我们自己选的，’”普莱普勒说，“我们对合作伙伴的态度是：和我们一起努力。我们想帮你们扩大业务。”
Some analysts said that while the $14.99 monthly price represented an attempt by HBO to carefully balance relationships with its current distributors, it also could be a tough sell when compared with the offerings at Netflix, which start at $7.99 a month. “You had to get to a price point that your distributors couldn’t complain about,” said Michael Nathanson, a media analyst with Moffett Nathanson Research.
有些分析师说，虽然每月14.99美元的价格表明HBO在小心地努力平衡目前与发行商的关系，但是这个价格销售起来也许比较困难，因为Netflix公司的月费起价是7.99美元。“你定的价格一定不能让发行商有意见，”莫菲特·内桑森研究公司(Moffett Nathanson Research)的媒体分析师迈克尔·内桑森(Michael Nathanson)说。
HBO declined to discuss details of the business relationship with Apple. Apple typically takes a 30 percent cut of revenue generated through apps, and it is unclear how that compares with its split with its traditional distributors.
HBO拒绝讨论与苹果商业关系的细节。苹果公司通常是收取通过app产生的收益的30%，尚不清楚这和HBO与其传统发行商的分成有多大差距。
The initiative is part of a broader growth strategy at Time Warner, which took on more importance internally after the company rejected an $80 billion takeover bid from Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox last summer. That strategy includes exploiting digital business opportunities, increasing original programming, expanding international business and cutting costs across its television and film properties, which also include Turner cable networks and Warner Bros. film studios.
这个计划是时代华纳集团(Time Warner)总体发展策略的一部分。去年夏天，鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)的21世纪福克斯公司(21st Century Fox)试图以800亿美元收购时代华纳，遭到后者拒绝，之后这一发展策略更加受到公司内部的重视。它包括开发数字业务机会，增加原创节目，扩大国际业务，缩减电视电影业务的开支，其中也包括特纳有线电视网(Turner cable networks)和华纳兄弟电影公司(Warner Bros. film studios)。
With the new streaming service, Time Warner and HBO will need to tread carefully so as not to cannibalize their core businesses. Both HBO and other television networks in Time Warner’s portfolio depend on their relationships with cable and satellite companies for billions of dollars in revenue.
时代华纳和HBO需要小心经营新的流媒体服务，以免损害其核心业务。时代华纳旗下的HBO和其他电视网每年要依靠与有线电视公司和卫星公司的合作赚取数十亿美元的收入。
HBO and its sibling network Cinemax added 2.8 million subscribers in 2014, the most in more than 30 years. The two networks counted about 138 million worldwide subscribers, with about 46 million paid subscribers in the United States. Growth in subscription revenue and licensing fees for select original programming helped increase revenue 10 percent, to $5.4 billion, at HBO last year.
2014年，HBO及其兄弟电视网Cinemax的用户增加了280万，是30多年来增长最多的一年。这两家电视网在全球拥有约1.38亿订购用户，在美国拥有约4600万付费用户。去年，订购收入和精选原创节目授权费的增长使HBO的年收入增长了10%，达到54亿美元。