As it enters its second season, it’s clear that the HBO comedy “Silicon Valley” concerns itself not just with the foibles of the American tech industry, but also with the many gradations of human social awkwardness.
随着HBO喜剧《硅谷》(Silicon Valley)进入第二季，很显然，它不仅表现了美国高科技产业的小缺点，而且还展露了人们在社交方面各种程度的笨拙与难堪之处。
There’s the awkwardness of Richard Hendricks, the hero of the series, whose long jaw and big scared eyes complement his clipped, mumbling delivery of what are eventually recognized, through no fault of his own, as very smart ideas.
剧中男主角理查德·亨德里克斯(Richard Hendricks)有时候就很笨拙。他有长长的下巴，带着惊吓神情的大眼睛，用简短含糊的语气表达自己的点子。经过一番曲折——这并不是他自己的错——大家最终会认识到那些点子非常高明。
There’s the awkwardness of Peter Gregory, which attained a kind of sublimity before the untimely death of the actor Christopher Evan Welch and the subsequent death of his character, revealed in this season’s premier. (The uninitiated should watch Peter Gregory’s bizarre laugh to get an idea of Mr. Welch’s greatness.)
彼得·格里高利(Peter Gregory)的笨拙之处则具有一种庄严感。（不了解情况的人可以看看彼得·格里高利匪夷所思的笑声，来了解角色扮演者的精彩演技。）在演员克里斯托弗·埃文·韦尔奇(Christopher Evan Welch)英年早逝之后，第二季首播时宣告了这个角色的死亡。
Then there’s the awkwardness of Laurie Bream. Laurie is Peter Gregory’s replacement at the venture capital firm Raviga. Laurie is far less weird than Peter. The show paints her awkwardness, however, as a business liability.
再有就是劳瑞·布里姆(Laurie Bream)的笨拙了。劳瑞接替了彼得·格里高利在Raviga风险投资公司的职位。她远不如彼得那么怪异。但是，这部剧集把她的笨拙之处描绘成了对业务的妨碍。
“Being a managing partner is all about meeting with people and interacting with people,” Peter’s former assistant Monica begins in this season’s opener (never mind that Peter himself was the very antithesis of a people person). Then Laurie launches into an extended faux pas involving whether they should sit or stand.
“作为董事合伙人，主要工作就是与人会面、交际，”彼得的前助理莫妮卡(Monica)在本季开始时说（尽管彼得本人毫无交际能力）。然后，劳瑞就在应该坐着还是站着的问题上没完没了地发表自己的失态言论。
While Peter’s strangeness gave rise to visionary ideas (cf. his now-famous sesame-seed deal), Laurie’s hyper-analytical approach is portrayed as a lack of vision — she pulls out of the deal with Richard’s company in episode two solely because a pending lawsuit means the numbers no longer look good. When Monica says the lawsuit is nonsense (it is), she responds, “nonsense is not a quantifiable metric.”
当彼得的古怪之处激发了富有远见的点子（参见他那现在变得很出名的芝麻交易），劳瑞对推崇分析的做事方式却被描绘成了缺乏远见。在第二集中，仅仅由于一个尚未裁决的诉讼案，让数字显得不那么好看，她就中止了与理查德的公司的交易。当莫妮卡称这宗诉讼是胡闹（确实如此）时，她回答说：“胡闹不是一个量化指标。”
And advising Monica about the delivery of bad news, she says, “in my experience, it’s best to look a person in the eye and deliver the information with warmth and compassion,” all while looking at both her iPhone and computer screens.
在建议莫妮卡如何传达坏消息时，她说，“以我的经验而言，最好是看着对方的眼睛，带着温暖和同情告知对方这个消息，”与此同时，她却看着自己的iPhone和计算机屏幕。
That Laurie’s awkwardness is a problem while Peter’s seemed inextricable from his genius bodes ill for a show that has at times attempted to make fun of tech-industry sexism but has been criticized for merely replicating it. The show pulls some of its set pieces from real tech news, and it would be interesting to see it incorporate a discrimination lawsuit like that filed by Ellen Pao against the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins.
劳瑞的笨拙是一个问题，而彼得的笨拙似乎就与他的天才之处密不可分，这对《硅谷》来说似乎不是一个好兆头，因为该剧集有时候试图打趣高科技业的性别歧视问题，但却为复制了这一问题而受到批评。该节目的一些内容取材于真正的科技新闻，如果鲍康如(Ellen Pao)控告风投公司凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers)的歧视诉讼案也被它采用，那将会相当有趣。
That suit likely went to trial too late to make it into season two, but Ms. Pao filed it in 2012, and she’s only one of many, many women who say they have faced discrimination in the tech industry. Will we see Laurie face such discrimination? Will Laurie be criticized, as Ms. Pao apparently was, for having “sharp elbows”?
那件案子的审理来得太晚，已经来不及把它纳入第二季，但鲍康如是在2012年提起诉讼的，而且像她这样自称在高技术业中遭受歧视的女性还有很多很多。我们会看到劳瑞面临这样的歧视吗？劳瑞会像鲍康如那样，由于“争强好胜”而招致非议吗？
Up to now, the show has painted Laurie as less effective than her male predecessor, despite the fact that they behave similarly. It would be far more interesting to see “Silicon Valley” challenge that view, by showing us an awkward woman who’s just as smart as the awkward men around her, but who struggles to be recognized as such.
迄今为止，在这部剧集将劳瑞描绘成工作效率比不上其男性前任，尽管事实上她和他们的行事方式很相似。看看《硅谷》将如何挑战这种看法吧，以向我们展现一个笨拙女人，虽然与她身边那些笨拙男人同样聪明，但却难以获得认可。这会更加有趣。