The dragons, dire wolves, White Walkers and power-hungry political factions in HBO’s fantasy epic “Game of Thrones” will invade movie theaters later this month — on the big, big screen. An exclusive trailer for the coming season along with the final two episodes of the previous season will be shown in 150 Imax theaters across the country.
本月底，HBO频道的奇幻史诗电视剧《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)中的龙、冰原狼、白鬼和渴望权力的政治派系将登上电影院的大银幕。下一季的独家预告片和上一季的最后两集将在美国各地的150家Imax影院上映。
The critically acclaimed drama about rival dynasties in a medieval-like world will be the first television series ever to appear on Imax screens. Tickets for the engagement, which will run for one week from Jan. 23 to 29, will go on sale “in the coming days.”
这部广受好评的电视剧讲述的是在一个类似中世纪的世界里的王朝争夺，它将成为首部登上Imax银幕的电视剧。“几天后”将开始售票，上映时间是1月23日至29日。
The move signals a continued blurring of the lines among media platforms, where digital videos, television series and films stream across a proliferation of screens, from tiny mobile phones to movie theaters. It also shows the extent to which media companies are trying to turn their blockbuster hits into mega events, as drawing mass audiences becomes increasingly rare.
这一举措表明，媒体平台之间的界线更加模糊——数字视频、电视剧和电影出现在越来越多的屏幕上，从手机小屏幕到影院大银幕。它还表明，媒体公司在努力把自己的轰动作品变成大事件，因为吸引大量观众变得越来越难。
For Imax, the “Game of Thrones” screening is part of an effort to expand the type of programming it shows beyond its core theatrical releases, especially as the North American box office faces tumbling sales. The company has had preliminary conversations with other entertainment companies about showing other television series and also has tested technologies allowing for the screening of live sports. Music concerts also are on the table, said Richard L. Gelfond, chief executive of Imax.
Imax公司想通过上映《权力的游戏》来扩展自己放映的节目类型，不局限于放映核心电影，特别是在北美电影票房不佳的情况下。该公司和其他娱乐公司初步讨论了放映其他电视剧的计划，还测试了直播体育赛事的技术。Imax公司的首席执行官理查德·L·盖尔方德(Richard L. Gelfond)说，音乐会也在讨论之列。
“We see the past of our company and the future of our company as innovating in the way that content is displayed,” Mr. Gelfond said.
“我们公司的过去和未来都是在不断革新内容的呈现方式，”盖尔方德说。
Other experimentation includes a plan to show the sequel to the movie “Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon” simultaneously on Netflix and in select Imax theaters.
其他试验包括计划在Netflix网站和一些精选Imax影院同时播映《卧虎藏龙》(Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon)的续集。
HBO and Imax started talking about screening “Game of Thrones” several months ago, convinced that the high production quality of the series, the demographic of the fan base and the branding opportunities made it a worthy experiment. At a reported $6 million to $10 million an episode, the show ranks as one of the most expensive productions on television today.
几个月前，HBO和Imax开始讨论放映《权力的游戏》，他们确信，这部电视剧制作精良，拥有庞大的粉丝群，又有许多品牌推广机会，所以值得尝试在影院上映。据报道，该剧每集的制作成本为600万至1000万美元，是如今制作成本最高的电视剧之一。
“ 'Game of Thrones’ is one of the few television shows that has the scope and cinematic qualities to really support the Imax format,” said Pamela Levine, chief marketing officer at HBO.
“从题材规模和拍摄品质角度讲，《权力的游戏》是少数几部真正支持Imax格式的电视剧之一，”HBO的首席营销官帕梅拉·莱文(Pamela Levine)说。
For HBO, the screening kicks off the promotion for the coming season of “Game of Thrones,” which starts in April. It will also start what is expected to be a big year of marketing and promotion for the premium cable network as a whole. HBO announced in October that it planned to introduce a stand-alone Internet streaming service later this year that does not require a standard cable or satellite subscription. It also is planning its first brand marketing campaign in about two decades.
对HBO来说，《权力的游戏》的上映拉开了该剧下一季宣传的序幕，下一季将于4月份开播。对于这个付费有线电视网来说，今年是整体营销和推广的重要年头。去年10月，HBO宣布将在2015年晚些时候推出单独的互联网流媒体服务，它不需要缴纳常规的有线电视或卫星电视费用。该公司还在规划约20年来的首次品牌推广活动。
Some industry observers have speculated that HBO’s new subscription streaming service would start in tandem with the new season of “Game of Thrones” so that the network could capitalize on the buzz related to the show. The fourth season of “Game of Thrones,” which ended in June, averaged 19 million cumulative viewers, making it the most-watched HBO original series ever.
一些行业观察者们预测，HBO新的订购流媒体服务将和《权力的游戏》的新一季同时开始，这样该电视台就能充分利用该剧带来的轰动效应。《权力的游戏》第四季于去年6月结束，平均每集的观众累积达1900万，是HBO原创电视剧中收视率最高的。