HONG KONG — More than 1,000 workers have gone on strike this week at an IBM factory in southeastern China in the latest sign of labor activism as companies’ acute shortage of blue-collar workers makes employees increasingly willing to take to the streets.
香港——中国东南部一家IBM工厂的1000多名工人本周罢工。由于公司蓝领工人短缺问题严重，工厂员工愈发愿意走上街头，此次罢工反映出的正是这种新迹象。
IBM is selling to Lenovo its x86 computer server business, which includes the factory in the southeastern city of Shenzhen, where the strike is unfolding. Lenovo agreed in January to pay $2.3 billion for the business in a transaction that is still subject to regulatory approval.
IBM正在向联想出售其x86计算机服务器业务，其中包括这家位于东南部城市深圳的工厂，罢工就发生在这家工厂。联想曾在1月份同意为购买这项业务支付23亿美元（约合140亿元人民币），这笔交易仍有待监管部门的批准。
A video posted on Chinese social media shows hundreds of workers in blue factory smocks standing on Tuesday in front of an IBM building in Shenzhen, a sprawling electronics industry hub adjacent to Hong Kong with more than 10 million permanent residents and migrant workers. “Workers are not a commodity,” read one homemade banner; another said, “Give us back our respect.”
发到中国社交媒体上的一段视频显示，几百名身穿蓝色工装的工人，周二站在深圳的一幢IBM建筑前。深圳紧邻香港，是一个占地面积不断扩大的电子工业中心，有1000多万长住人口和外来打工者。一条自制的旗帜上写着，“工人不是商品”；“我们是有尊严和人权的”。
IBM said in a news release that it hoped workers for the wholly owned subsidiary being sold, International Systems Technology Company in Shenzhen, would be willing to continue working for Lenovo but that it would offer them compensation if they did not accept the new employer.
IBM在一份新闻发布中说，希望这家名为“长城国际系统科技（深圳）”的待售全资子公司的工人，会愿意继续为联想工作，但如果工人不接受新雇主的话，会为他们提供补偿。
“Employees currently involved in x86 operations in Shenzhen have a personal choice of remaining with I.S.T.C. under terms and conditions comparable in aggregate to what they currently are receiving, or they can voluntarily choose what we believe is an equitable severance package and resign from I.S.T.C.,” the IBM statement said.
IBM公司在这份声明中表示，“目前深圳x86服务器业务的员工可以自行选择，是加盟联想，并接受与目前相当的薪酬条款，或是自愿选择我们认为合理的离职补偿。”
Strikes are especially common in China when factories are sold to new owners, a result of fears of layoffs among workers.
在中国，工厂被出售给新主人时，出现罢工的事情很常见，这是由于工人对裁员的担心。
Geoffrey Crothall, the communications director at the China Labor Bulletin, a nonprofit group in Hong Kong that advocates for independent collective bargaining and other legal protections for workers in mainland China, said that the latest strike was reminiscent of one by thousands of Nokia workers in November in Dongguan, next to Shenzhen. In that case, Nokia shareholders had approved the sale of their employer, Nokia’s handset division, to Microsoft.
郭展睿(Geoffrey Crothall)是位于香港的“中国劳工通讯(China Labor Bulletin)"的宣传总监，这是一家倡导中国大陆劳工独立地参与劳资谈判和获得其他法律保护权益的非营利性组织，郭展睿说，最近的这次罢工，让人想起去年11月在与深圳不远的东莞发生的几千名诺基亚(Nokia)工人的罢工。那次罢工的起因是，诺基亚的股东批准了将诺基亚手机部门出售给微软公司(Microsoft)，被出售的部门是那些工人的雇主。
“We’ve seen so many similar cases over the last two to three years,” Mr. Crothall said, adding that the IBM strike began on Monday and appeared on Thursday to be still underway.
“过去两、三年间，我们看到了很多起类似的事件，”郭展睿说，他补充道，IBM的这次罢工是周一开始的，似乎周四仍在继续。
A quadrupling of college enrollments over the past decade, together with the beginnings of a decline in the number of young Chinese as a result of the country’s one-child policy, has left a dearth of young people willing to take factory jobs. Age discrimination is also widespread in China, with factories seldom hiring anyone older than 40.
过去十年中，中国大学的入学人数增加了4倍，再加上国家计划生育政策导致中国年轻人数量开始下降，使愿意去工厂打工的年轻人匮乏。年龄歧视在中国也很普遍，工厂很少会雇佣40岁以上的工人。
Demographic issues have affected the Chinese workplace faster and to a greater extent than almost any experts expected. Wages for blue-collar workers have increased about fivefold over the past decade before adjusting for inflation and at least threefold after adjusting for inflation.
人口结构给中国职场带来影响的速度之快、范围之广几乎超出了所有专家的预期。过去十年中蓝领工人的工资，如果不考虑通货膨胀因素的话，增长了约4倍，如果将通货膨胀考虑进去，则增长了至少2倍。