HONG KONG — Imax Corporation, the Canadian company that has long designed and manufactured large-screen cinema equipment on the outskirts of Toronto, plans to announce on Tuesday in Los Angeles that it has set up a joint venture with a Chinese multinational to develop and manufacture $250,000 home theater systems in China.
香港——加拿大Imax公司计划周二在洛杉矶宣布，它已与一家中国跨国公司成立合资公司，在华开发并制造售价为25万美元（约合152万元人民币）的家庭影院系统。Imax的总部在多伦多市郊，长期以来一直设计和制造大屏幕影院设备。
Imax’s decision to set up a joint venture with the Shenzhen-based TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Limited is the latest sign of the powerful lure that China has become for Hollywood and its suppliers. Nicole Kidman, John Travolta, Leonardo DiCaprio and Zhang Ziyi showed up last month in Qingdao, a beach resort in northeastern China, to attend the announcement of a movie-themed real estate developmentthat is to include 20 movie sound sets.
Imax与总部位于深圳的TCL多媒体科技控股有限公司成立合资公司的决定，是中国对好莱坞及其供应商具有强大诱惑力的最新体现。上月妮可·基德曼(Nicole Kidman)、约翰·特拉沃尔塔(John Travolta)、莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)和章子怡曾在位于东北的海滨城市青岛，出席了一个以影视为主题的房地产开发项目的发布会，该项目将包括20个摄影棚。
Imax decided on a joint venture with TCL for the new systems primarily because it expects China to be the largest market for them, Richard L. Gelfond, the chief executive of Imax, said in a telephone interview. Imax also concluded that it needed an alliance with a large television manufacturer in order to handle the distribution and service issues associated with selling to a broader range of households, he said.
Imax公司首席执行官理查德·L·格尔丰德(Richard L. Gelfond)在电话采访中说，Imax决定与TCL成立合资公司，主要是因为其预计中国将成为他们最大的市场。他说，Imax也做出结论，认为需要与一家大型的电视制造商合作，以应对向更大范围的家庭出售产品的配送和服务问题。
While acknowledging that low production costs in China had also been an attraction, Mr. Gelfond said that they had not been central. “It’s not because of the low-end cost structure but because it’s the market,” he said.
格尔丰德虽然承认中国制造的低成本也具有一定的吸引力，但他说那不是最主要的原因。他说，“成立合资企业不是因为低端的成本结构，而是因为这里的市场。”
Imax already makes $2 million home theater systems for extremely wealthy households at its base in Mississauga, Ontario, and will continue to do so.
Imax公司已在其位于安大略省米西索加的生产基地为极富裕的家庭制造售价为200万美元的家庭影院系统，并将继续在那里从事这种制造。
China is now the world’s largest market for flat-panel television sets, just as it is also the largest market now for everything from cars to cellphones. But two peculiarities of the Chinese box office have made it particularly attractive for manufacturers of high-end home theater systems.
中国目前是世界上平板电视机的最大市场，正如中国也是世界上从汽车到手机等所有产品的最大市场一样。但中国票房的两个特征，使其对高端家庭影院系统制造商来说，具有特别的吸引力。
The Chinese government only allows 34 foreign movies to be distributed each year through its cinemas, at least 14 of which must be 3D or Imax versions. But the latest Hollywood movies are widely distributed in China on DVDs and in other formats, prompting Chinese families to spend heavily to see them at home in style.
中国政府每年只允许34部外国影片在中国电影院上映，其中至少有14部必须是3D或Imax版本。但好莱坞最新影片通过DVD和其他形式在中国广泛发行，这促使中国家庭花大钱在家里气派地观赏这些影片。
Another unusual feature of the Chinese market is that Western and Chinese studios have not tried to block the immediate release of movies there in formats suitable for top-priced home theater systems at the same time that the movies are released in cinemas. By contrast, Hollywood studios strictly prohibit the distribution in the West of top-priced home theater versions of first-run movies until they have been showing at cinemas for 30 to 60 days.
中国电影市场另一个不同寻常的特点是，西方和中国的电影制片厂在向电影院发行影片期间，还没有试图阻止马上以适于高端家庭影院的版本发行片子。相比之下，好莱坞制片厂严格禁止影片在电影院首轮上映期间，在西方发行适于高档家庭影院的版本，首轮上映时间一般是30到60天。
Industry studies have predicted that the market for top-end home theater systems could be worth several hundred million dollars a year within several years, mainly because of sales in China but also in the Mideast and Russia, two other markets where very wealthy families also prefer to watch movies in their own mansions. But Mr. Gelfond said that the number of systems sold would not be enough to dent box-office demand in China or elsewhere.
行业研究曾预测，对高端家庭影院系统的需求在几年内可达到每年几亿美元的水平，这种需求主要来自中国市场，但也部分来自中东和俄罗斯，这两个市场中极为富裕的家庭也喜欢在自己的豪宅里看电影。但格尔丰德说，销售的家庭影院系统的数量，不足以削弱中国和其他地区的票房需求。
“The cost of this is not at a price point that threatens the theatrical community,” he said.
他说，“这种系统的成本还没有达到能威胁影院行业的价位。”
Li Dongsheng, the chairman and chief executive of TCL, said in a statement that “As content viewing in the home is constantly improving, we wanted to stake out an entirely new position in the premium home theater market.”
TCL集团总裁兼董事长李东生在一份声明中说，“随着在家观看的内容不断增多，我们在重要的家庭影院市场中希望瞄准一个全新的目标。”
Mr. Gelfond declined to say how large the screens would be that Imax will manufacture with TCL, except to say that they would be larger than any currently available home theater systems that are designed to fit into conventionally built rooms. Imax’s $2 million behemoth requires specially built rooms so as to provide an experience more similar to the company’s cinema systems.
格尔丰德拒绝透露Imax与TCL联合制造的屏幕将有多大，只是说它会比目前市场上为传统建造房间设计的家庭影院系统的屏幕都要大。Imax的售价为200万美元的巨型系统的屏幕需要专门建造的放映室，以提供与公司的影院系统更为类似的体验。
Negotiations to set up the joint venture took a year and a half, and TCL has promised to protect Imax’s intellectual property, he added.
他补充说，成立合资公司的谈判用了一年半的时间，TCL已承诺要保护Imax的知识产权。
Mr. Gelfond said that he did not expect any layoffs at the company’s Canadian operations, and will continue to do most of its research and development there. Imax’s China offices in Shanghai have grown from 8 employees five years ago to 70 now.
格尔丰德说，他预计公司不会裁掉其在加拿大的任何员工，公司将继续在加拿大从事绝大部分的研发工作。Imax在上海的中国办事处已在过去5年中从8名雇员发展到了现在的70人。
Almost all of the Shanghai employees are local hires instead of transfers from Canada, a pattern that the company plans to maintain.
该公司在上海的雇员几乎都是从当地招聘，而不是从加拿大派遣过去的，公司计划继续这种做法。
China is on track to pass North America in box office revenue by 2018, and Chinese forecasters predict that it could be twice the size of the North American market by 2023.
预计到2018年中国的票房收入将超过北美，中国预测者预计到2023年中国市场的票房收入可能会是北美市场的2倍。