LOS ANGELES — China Media Capital, a state-run entertainment investment fund that has already done business with Time Warner, DreamWorks Animation and 21st Century Fox, added Imax to its deal portfolio on Tuesday.
洛杉矶——中国的国营娱乐投资基金华人文化产业投资基金(China Media Capital)已经与时代华纳(Time Warner)、梦工厂动画电影公司(DreamWorks Animation)和21世纪福克斯(21st Century Fox)有过合作，周二又把Imax纳入了它的交易范围。
Imax, the Canadian large-screen movie company, said it would sell a fifth of its Chinese subsidiary to China Media Capital and the private equity firm FountainVest Partners for $80 million. The Chinese investors in turn plan to help Imax China complete a public offering of shares to finance expansion.
加拿大巨幕电影公司Imax表示，它将把中国分公司五分之一的权益卖给华人文化产业投资基金和私募股权公司方源资本(FountainVest Partners)，价格是8000万美元（约合5亿元人民币）。作为回报，这些中国投资者计划帮助Imax中国(Imax China)完成首次公开募股，以便为公司规模的扩大融资。
The investors will pay in two equal installments, with the first expected to close on Tuesday and the second coming in 2015, Imax said. Nasdaq-listed Imax shares fell slightly in Tuesday trading.
Imax表示，前述投资者将以等额分期付款的形式进行支付，第一期预计将于周二完成，第二期将于2015年进行。在周二的交易中，纳斯达克上市公司Imax的股价出现了轻微下跌。
“At this juncture, it makes sense to bring in Chinese investors to help us better address local market dynamics and further optimize our business in China,” Richard Gelfond, Imax’s chief executive, said in a statement. Imax China operates about 150 theaters and is trying to build a home theater business.
“在这个时刻，让中国投资者帮我们更好地应对当地市场变化，进一步优化我们在中国的业务，堪称明智之举，”Imax的首席执行官理查德·葛尔方(Richard Gelfond)在声明中说。Imax中国共经营着约150家影院，并且计划启动家庭影院业务。
The deal offers another lift for Li Ruigang, the chairman of China Media Capital and former head of the Shanghai Media Group. Mr. Li, who founded his current company in 2009 with backing from China Development Bank and a fund of about $800 million, is already an investor in Oriental DreamWorks, an animation studio and participant in a coming Shanghai entertainment district. In January, he bought Fox’s portion of the Star China television service.
这笔交易再次增加了华人文化产业投资基金董事长、上海文广新闻传媒前总裁黎瑞刚的影响力。2009年，借助国家开发银行的支持和一笔为数约8亿美元的资金，黎瑞刚创办了华人文化产业投资基金。现在，他已是东方梦工厂(Oriental DreamWorks)的投资人之一，东方梦工厂是一家动画工作室，将进驻即将成型的上海娱乐区。1月，黎瑞刚买下了福克斯在星空传媒（大中华）(Star China TV)的股份。
In June, Mr. Li announced an investment partnership with Time Warner.
6月，黎瑞刚宣布与时代华纳缔结投资伙伴关系。
Imax has been one of the most aggressive Western entertainment companies in China, where it has a solid foothold. But it has lately encountered some turbulence, sparring over a competing large-screen system that, Imax has charged in several courts, relies on technology stolen from its Canadian offices.
Imax是开拓中国市场力度最大的西方娱乐公司之一，并且在中国站稳了脚跟。但该公司最近遭遇了一些动荡，因一种与之竞争的巨幕系统与人产生了矛盾。该系统靠的是从Imax加拿大办公室窃取的技术，Imax已将其告上多家法院。