The arrival of the original iPhone in 2007 was a quantum leap for cellphones. Phones had never worked or looked like that.
2007年，iPhone的出现为手机带来了巨大突破。此前，从没有哪个手机有着那样的功能和外观。
The iPhone 5 that Apple introduced last week with only incremental changes seemed to signal that the industry has entered an era of technological bunny hops.
苹果公司(Apple)上周推出的iPhone 5，仅带来了一些渐进式的改变，这似乎表明，手机行业进入了一个科技上的微幅渐进时代。
Faster chips, bigger screens and speedier wireless Internet connections are among the refinements smartphone users can count on year after year in new models, most of them in familiar rectangular packages. They are improvements, to be sure, but they lack the breathtaking impact the first iPhone had, with its pioneering fusion of software and touch screens.
大多数手机依然是长方形的外观，但更快的芯片、更大的屏幕和更快速的无线网络连接等改变，是新款智能手机每年都能做出的改进。这些的确是改善，但是它们却没有像第一代iPhone那样，实现了惊人的突破，将软件和触摸屏创新性地结合在了一起。
“Since then, it has been kind of incremental,” said Chetan Sharma, an independent mobile analyst. “It does not feel like there is a big shift.”
“自那以来，改变就是渐进式的了，”独立的移动技术分析家凯坦·夏尔马(Chetan Sharma)表示。“没有觉得有什么大的改进。”
But big innovations in smartphones are not a thing of the past. Incremental improvements can add up over a span of years, providing the computing horsepower to enable big advances in software. Breakthroughs in smartphone materials, software and even batteries could lead to substantial changes in how smartphones look and function in the years ahead.
但是，智能手机的创新还在出现。在数年的时间里，渐进式改进可以不断积累起来，积聚的电脑运算能力，可以实现软件上的巨大革新。智能手机材料、软件，甚至是电池上的突破，都能够在接下来数年内使得智能手机的外观和功能产生巨大变化。
One of Apple’s most intriguing recent efforts to redefine the iPhone is Siri, the voice-activated virtual assistant that it introduced in October with the iPhone 4S. The feature has the potential to change how consumers retrieve information on their iPhones, giving them the ability to find information on the Web with natural voice commands and to perform other tasks. The product, though, has been criticized for its inaccuracies.
苹果在去年十月份推出iPhone 4S时，推出了声控虚拟助理Siri，这是该公司近一段时间在重新定义iPhone的努力中最有趣的举措之一。这个功能有可能会改变手机用户在iPhone上获取信息的方法，使他们能够通过自然的声音指令在网络上寻找信息，以及执行其他任务。不过，该软件因其不准确性饱受批评。
As Apple continues to improve Siri, Google, the maker of the Android phone operating system, improves on its voice search products. Google and some of its mobile phone partners have also moved toward replacing the credit card with the smartphone using a technology called near-field communications that lets users make payments wirelessly at cash registers.
在苹果继续改善Siri的同时，Anroid手机操作系统的制造商谷歌(Google)也在完善它的声音搜索产品。谷歌和它的一些移动电话合作伙伴开始尝试用智能手机代替信用卡，通过一种叫做近场通讯的技术，使手机用户能够在收银机进行无线支付。
That system has been slow to take off because most merchants do not support it yet. Apple is taking a more cautious approach to new mobile payment systems, offering a feature in its new iPhone software called Passbook for storing electronic versions of store payment, gift and loyalty cards.
推广这个系统的步伐很缓慢，因为大多商家还不支持它。苹果对新的移动支付系统采取了较为谨慎的处理方式，在它的新的iPhone的软件中设置了一个叫做Passbook的功能，用来存储网上商店的付款、礼品和优惠卡的电子版本。
Technology analysts say smartphones could again see big changes akin to the one Apple introduced in 2007. Wearable computers are a source of fascination among many Silicon Valley companies, especially at Google. The company has put tremendous effort behind Project Glass, eyeglasslike frames that can display texts, e-mails and other information from a smartphone on a miniature screen in front of the wearer’s eye.
技术分析家表示，类似于苹果在2007年实现的巨大飞跃式突破可能再次在智能手机行业上演。很多硅谷(Silicon Valley)的公司，尤其是谷歌，对“可配戴式电脑”十分着迷。谷歌倾注了大量努力，以实施“眼镜项目”(Project Glass)，即把智能手机上的文字、邮件和其他信息，在配戴者眼前类似眼镜片的微小屏幕上展示出来。
Google has said it plans to release a version of the technology for developers that would cost $1,500 in the first half of next year and a consumer version sometime after that.
谷歌曾表示，计划在明年的上半年推出该技术的开发商版本，售价1500美元，在此之后，将推出市场版。
Although it could take years of work before the technology reached mass market prices, researchers and some intrepid technology companies said they believe wearable computers could be crucial to unlocking a new category of applications called “augmented reality.” Virtual objects and information could be overlaid on the real world. Imagine visiting ancient ruins and seeing, through a pair of glasses connected to a smartphone, how the site looked before its decay. People could eventually play augmented reality games that could involve laying virtual ambushes around corners in the real world.
虽然将该技术的市场价格降为大众可接受的价格还需数年时间，研发人员和一些较为前沿的技术公司表示，他们相信配戴式电脑可能使一类叫做“增强现实”(augmented reality)的应用程序成为现实。虚拟的物体和信息可能和现实世界重叠。想象一下，在参观古代的废墟时，你能通过一副和智能手机相连的眼镜，看到这个地方衰败之前的样子。最终，人们能够玩“增强现实”的游戏，躲在真实世界的角落，进行虚拟的突袭。
“A lot of people are thinking about augmented reality as a possible game changer in mobile computing,” said Tobias Hollerer, a computer science professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara, who is researching the field.
“现在，很多人认为，增强现实可能会成为移动计算机技术的游戏规则改变者，” 加州大学圣芭芭拉分校(University of California, Santa Barbara)正在研究此领域的计算机科学教授托拜厄斯·赫勒雷尔(Tobias Hollerer)表示。
Changes in materials could also allow for more radical designs for smartphones and peripherals that connect to them. Corning, a company that makes the glass used in iPhone and other smartphone screens, has developed a flexible product called Willow Glass. Paul Tompkins, director of commercial technology at Corning, said the thin and strong glass could give designers a way to make devices that have more curves conform to a part of the body. A wrist device, for example, could display much of the information that’s now on a smartphone.
材料的改变也可以给智能手机及与之相连的外围设备带来更大胆的设计。康宁公司(Corning)生产的玻璃被用于制造iPhone和其他智能手机的屏幕，该公司研发了一种柔韧的玻璃产品，名为“韧柳玻璃”(Willow Glass)。康宁公司的商业技术总监保罗·汤普金斯(Paul Tompkins)说，这种薄而坚硬的玻璃能让设计师设计出有着更多曲线的产品，以适应人体的某个部位。例如，腕式设备能够显示如今智能手机上的大多数信息。
“We’re really working hard on that with a couple of companies,” he said. “You can achieve more organic designs.”
“我们确实正在这方面和一些公司进行大力合作，”他说。“你能做出更有机的设计。”
Then there are seemingly mundane technical breakthroughs that could take away some of the more vexing aspects of smartphones, like the need to worry constantly about keeping them charged. In 2010, Apple filed a patent application for a small fuel-cell power supply that could potentially give the iPhone and iPad enough juice to last for weeks without the need to plug them in.
还有一些看似平常的技术突破会让智能手机更令人烦恼的某些方面消失，比如手机充电所带来的无尽烦恼。2010年，苹果公司为一个小型燃料电池电源申请了专利，这种电池有潜力为iPhone和iPad提供足够电量以维持数周运行而无需充电。
Mr. Sharma, the mobile analyst, said cellphone companies in Japan have been working on fuel-cell technology for a long time, but the technology is still years away from being practical. “Whenever it comes into being in a shape and form that’s implementable for smartphones, that will be a dramatic shift,” he said.
移动手机分析师夏尔马说，日本的手机公司长久以来致力于研究燃料电池技术，但该技术要达到实际运用还需要很长时间。“一旦该技术出现，并且其形状与形式可以满足智能手机的使用，那将是突破性的转变，”他说。
Consumers have not been sitting on their wallets waiting for the next big bang. If some people appear bored by the iterative nature of new smartphones, they have not shown it. The smartphone market has expanded so much in the past few years, along with Apple’s standing in it, that sales of late-model iPhones dwarf those of the original.
消费者们愿意为下一个大变革的出现掏腰包。如果说有人看起来对新型智能手机的迭代特性感到厌烦，那他们现在还没有把这种情绪表现出来。智能手机市场在过去几年中实现大幅扩张，苹果公司也大幅创收，其新型号iPhone的销量大大超过最初型号的销量。
In its first full quarter on the market, Apple sold a mere 1.1 million iPhones, accounting for $118 million in revenue. In contrast, the company sold 26 million of the devices last quarter, bringing in $16.25 billion in revenue.
在iPhone上市后的第一个完整季度里，苹果公司售出了110万部手机，创收1.18亿美元。相比之下，苹果公司在上季度售出2600万部手机，创收162.5亿美元。
The iPhone 5 shows every sign of repeating the success of its predecessors. After Apple and its wireless carrier partners began taking Web orders for the new iPhone early Friday morning, it took only hours for the initial inventory to be claimed.
种种迹象表明，iPhone 5将复制前几代iPhone的成功史。苹果公司及其电信合作商在上周五早晨开始接受新款iPhone的网上订单，初期存货在数小时之内就被一抢而空。
For latecomers, Apple and some of its wireless carrier partners estimated they could not get them phones until two weeks after Friday, when the iPhone 5 will become available in stores.
苹果公司及其数家无线电信合作商估计，晚到的购买者只能在两周后才能获得手机，那个时候iPhone 5将会在零售店出售。
The difference in smartphones from year to year may not seem spectacular as Apple and its competitors, like Google, Samsung, Microsoft and even Nokia, push their new smartphones forward a bit more every year, like marathoners trying with each race to better their personal bests by minutes. But the long arc of technological progress is.
智能手机的逐年差异可能并不显得特别突出，苹果公司及其竞争者，像谷歌(Google)、三星(Samsung)、微软(Microsoft)、甚至诺基亚(Nokia)等，每年都会推动自己的智能手机往前发展一小步，就像马拉松选手尝试在每场比赛中让自己的个人最好成绩提高几分钟。但科技进步的长期曲线是惊人的。