Apple has been counting on a long-awaited agreement with China Mobile, the world’s largest cellular operator, to reverse its fortunes in China. If the muted reception Friday, when customers were finally able to buy iPhones from China Mobile, is any indication, the companies may have to work harder to whip up enthusiasm.
苹果(Apple)公司一直在指望靠与中国移动签订这项等待已久的协议，来扭转其在中国的命运，中国移动是世界上最大的手机运营商。如果周五的静静反响是任何标示的话，那么这两家公司可能要更加努力才能激起人们的热情。消费者在周五终于可以从中国移动购买iPhone手机了。
Instead of the round-the-block lines that have greeted Apple product introductions in China and other countries in the past, only about a dozen customers showed up to buy iPhones at the opening of a store in Beijing — despite the presence of a special guest, the Apple chief executive, Timothy D. Cook.
与过去苹果产品在中国和其他国家开卖时人们沿街排长队的盛况不同，这次只有十几个消费者来到北京一家新开张的商店买iPhone，尽管有一位特殊的客人、苹果的首席执行官蒂莫西·库克(Timothy D. Cook)来到了现场。
Mr. Cook’s trip to Beijing was a testament to the importance that Apple has attached to the introduction of iPhones on a mobile network with more than 750 million customers. The agreement to sell the iPhone 5S and 5C was announced in December, after years of negotiations.
库克这次来北京，是苹果对将iPhone引入拥有超过7.5亿用户的移动网络很重视的一种证明。通过中国移动销售iPhone5S和5C的协议是去年12月宣布的，谈判花了几年的时间。
Apple was once an iconic brand in China, where its phones have been sold for years by the second- and third-largest mobile operators, China Unicom and China Telecom. But it has lost ground to the market leader in smartphones, Samsung Electronics, and cut-price domestic rivals.
苹果在中国曾是一个标志性的品牌，多年来苹果手机都是通过第二和第三大手机运营商，中国联通和中国电信销售。但苹果现已落在智能手机行业的市场主导者三星电子(Samsung Electronics)的后面，也面临着廉价的中国竞争对手。
Its market share has fallen into the single digits.
苹果的市场份额已经下降到了个位数。
In some ways, Apple’s challenges echo those of other American brands in China, which gained loyal followings during the country’s boom but have more recently been subject to intense scrutiny by the Chinese media, prompting consumers to give another look to alternatives.
从某种程度来看，苹果公司的困境与其他美国品牌在中国的情况类似，这些品牌在中国经济快速发展期间赢得了忠诚的拥戴，但最近受到中国媒体的严格监督，这促使消费者将目光转向其他选择。
“Apple used to be the must-have, aspirational brand for all wealthy and middle-class Chinese consumers,” said Shaun Rein, the managing director of CMR, a market research firm, and the author of “The End of Cheap China.” “But over the last year, there has been a real deterioration of the Apple brand.”
市场研究公司中国市场研究集团（China Market Research Group)常务董事雷小山 (Shaun Rein)说，“苹果过去曾是所有中国富人和中产阶级消费者的必备、或渴望得到的品牌。但是在过去一年中，苹果的品牌地位一直在下降。”雷小山也是《廉价中国的终结》一书的作者。　
The state-run CCTV has broadcast a series of exposés of supposed quality or ethics lapses by Western brands, including Apple. In one of the most recent examples, Walmart this month recalled donkey meat that it was selling at several outlets after it was found to have been tainted with fox meat.
国家电视台CCTV曾播出一系列节目曝光西方品牌所谓的质量或道德问题，其中包括苹果。最近曝光的案例是，沃尔玛在本月召回了在几家店销售的驴肉，此前有人发现这些肉里掺有狐狸肉。
Apple is just the latest of a number of American technology companies to fall on harder times in China. Google was once a leading search engine in China, but then lost ground to a local rival, Baidu. Motorola was once a power in mobile phones in China, but then lost ground to Nokia of Finland — which, in turn, yielded leadership to Apple, Samsung and others. More recently, Cisco Systems, the maker of telecommunications network equipment, said that sales in China had been hurt by disclosures of surveillance by the United States National Security Agency.
苹果只不过是在中国陷入困境的许多美国技术公司之一。谷歌(Google)曾在中国的搜索引擎市场领先，后来输给了国内的竞争对手百度。摩托罗拉(Motorola)曾是中国手机行业中的强者，不过，后来输给了芬兰公司诺基亚(Nokia)，而诺基亚又让位于苹果、三星和其他品牌。更近一点，电信网络设备制造商思科系统公司(Cisco Systems)称，由于美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)监听监视活动的曝光，其在中国的销售受到影响。
Analysts say that Chinese consumers are likely to base their purchasing decisions more on the price and features of phones and calling plans. And Apple still has enthusiasts, including some of the consumers who visited the Beijing store on Friday.
分析人士称，中国消费者在购买手机时很可能更看重手机的价格和功能、以及通话费用。苹果依然拥有粉丝，包括那些周五来北京这家商店的人。
“This is like manna from heaven!” said Xia Bingyi, a 26-year-old customer from the eastern Chinese city of Jinan. She was one of 10 registrants for an iPhone through China Mobile who won a trip to the Chinese capital to purchase an iPhone on the opening day of the company’s offering.
26岁的夏冰怡来自济南，她说，“这就像是天上掉下来的馅饼。”她预定了通过中国移动购买iPhone，并赢得了一笔路费来首都在发售当天购买手机，另有9名注册者也和她一样被选中。
Ms. Xia already owned an iPhone 4 she bought two years ago, but said she did not hesitate to sign up for a new iPhone 5S once China Mobile began offering the Apple product.
夏冰怡已经有一部两年前买的iPhone 4，但她说，在中国移动开始推出苹果产品时，她毫不犹豫地注册了购买一部新iPhone 5S。
So far, China Mobile is being has been less aggressive on pricing than some analysts had expected. It is offering the unsubsidized, unlocked version of the iPhone 5S at 5,288 renminbi, or $874, the same price that Apple charges in its own stores in China. China Mobile customers can get the phone for free — but only if they commit to a two-year contract at 588 renminbi per month, or almost $100.
到目前为止，中国移动在定价上并没有像一些分析人士预期的那样声势浩大。中国移动出售的没有补贴、无锁的iPhone 5S的价格是5288元人民币，与苹果在其中国专卖店里的售价相同。中国移动的用户可以免费得到手机，但需要签订一个为期两年的合同，每月需支付588元人民币。
China Unicom and China Telecom have made only modest price cuts on their competing iPhone packages since China Mobile announced its Apple agreement in December.
自中国移动在去年12月宣布与苹果签订协议后，中国联通和中国电信对各自出售的iPhone套餐价格略微做出向下的调整。
“There won’t be a subsidy war among the three operators because they have already learned that they need to control this,” said Jun Zhang, an analyst at Wedge Partners, an equity research firm.
投资研究公司Wedge Partners的分析师张军说，“这三家运营商之间不会出现一场补贴战，因为他们已经知道需要控制这种情况。”
On Sina Weibo, a microblogging service, some users complained about the pricing of the iPhone 5S by China Mobile, saying they could get smuggled versions for less money.
一些用户在新浪微博上抱怨中国移动发售的iPhone 5S价格太高，称他们能花更少的钱买到走私手机。
“The model is the same,” one contributor wrote on Weibo. “I want the cheaper one.”
一个发帖者在微博上写道，“同一型号。我想要更便宜的那个。”
Even before the deal with Apple, China Mobile said 45 million people were already using iPhones on its network, most of them acquired from Hong Kong or via other unofficial channels. This accounts for more than 60 percent of the iPhones in use in China, according to Craig Yu, research director at Kantar Worldpanel ComTech, a research firm.
中国移动在与苹果签订协议之前就称，已有4500万用户在中国移动网络使用iPhone，大多数人的手机是从香港或其他非官方渠道买到的。研究公司Kantar Worldpanel ComTech研究主任克雷格·余(Craig Yu)称，该数量占中国iPhone手机用户的60%以上。
Now, in addition to the agreement with Apple, China Mobile has another big advantage over its two rivals — the fast new network it is building, using so-called 4G technology. China Unicom and China Telecom are still relying on the slower, previous generation technology.
现在，除了与苹果签订协议之外，中国移动与其他两家竞争对手相比还有另一大优势：它拥有所谓4G技术的高速新网。中国联通和中国电信仍依赖速度较慢的上一代技术。
But this is a mixed blessing for Apple, because analysts say some China Mobile iPhone sales will come from customers switching from China Unicom or China Telecom. As a result, estimates of iPhone sales by China Mobile, which have ranged from less than 10 million annually to more than 30 million, might overstate the overall benefit to Apple.
但是这对苹果来说喜忧参半，因为分析人士认为，中国移动的一部分iPhone手机销售将来自那些从中国联通或中国电信转过来的客户。这样一来，中国移动的预期iPhone销售量可能夸大了给苹果带来的整体利益，中国移动的iPhone销售数预期为每年不到1000万台到每年3000万台不等。
An Apple spokeswoman, Carolyn Wu, said the company did not plan to report first-day sales figures.
苹果公司发言人卡洛琳·吴(Carolyn Wu)说，公司不打算公布第一天的销售数据。
Previously, China Mobile had reported more than one million advance orders for the phone via its website since the deal was announced.
之前，中国移动曾宣布，达成协议以来，通过其网络预购手机的订单有100多万张。
But Mr. Zhang of Wedge Partners said such online registrations generally result in firm orders in only about one-third of cases, meaning Apple could expect around 400,000 sales.
但是，Wedge Partners的张军说，这种在线预订一般只有三分之一成为真正的购买，这也就是说，苹果的销售量预计在40万部左右。
Over all, including the effect of customers switching from rival networks, Mr. Zhang said he expected Apple to sell about one million more phones a month in China as a result of the deal, on top of the roughly three million it has been selling.
张军说，总的来看，包括考虑到从竞争对手网络中转过来的客户这一因素，他预计协议将让苹果每月在中国多售出100多万部手机，苹果现在中国每月售出约300万部。
In a market of more than one billion mobile phone customers, those are modest figures. That may help explain why even Mr. Cook seemed to be looking as much to the future as to the present as he traveled to Beijing for the China Mobile introduction.
在一个拥有超过10亿用户的手机市场上，这样的销售量不算多。这可能有助于解释为什么库克在去北京参加中国移动推出苹果手机的活动时，似乎更面向未来，而不是此刻。
Analysts said that Apple could probably broaden its potential market in China by making phones with features that appeal more to Chinese consumers, like bigger screens. Handsets like the Samsung Note 3, which has a 5.7-inch screen, compared with the 4-inch screen of the Apple 5S and 5C, have been selling well in China.
分析人士说，苹果也许可能会通过给手机增加更受中国用户喜爱的功能，比如更大的屏幕，来拓展其在中国的潜在市场。像三星Note 3这样的大屏幕手机在中国一直卖得很好，三星Note 3的屏幕有5.7英寸，而苹果5S和5C的屏幕只有4英寸。
In his appearance at the China Mobile store in Beijing, the Apple chief told shoppers and reporters that “today is just the beginning of China Mobile and Apple coming together to deliver the best experience in the world.”
苹果首席执行官在北京的一家中国移动商店对购物者和记者说，“今天只是中国移动和苹果联手、一起给人们带来世界上最好体验的开端。”
“We never talk about future things,” Mr. Cook said. “We have great things we are working on but we want to keep them secret. That way you will be so much happier when you see it.”
“我们从来不谈未来的事情，”库克说。“我们目前正忙于很多重要的东西，但我们要保密。这样的话，你们看到它们时会更高兴。”