When Apple introduced its less expensive version of the iPhone last week, many techies and tech followers — including me — groaned and poked fun at the shiny, toy-like designs. To me, the candy-colored bodies looked like a cheap marketing gimmick, a lazy throwback to iBook laptops from a decade or so ago. It seemed like a drastic diversion from the minimalistic, streamlined look that has become the norm for Apple’s current line of hardware products. I thought no one would want to buy them.
当苹果(Apple)上周推出不那么昂贵的iPhone版本时，许多科技迷和业界关注者，包括我，都对亮闪闪的玩具般的设计大加抱怨并取笑了一番。在我看来，糖果色的机身似乎是一种廉价的营销花招，苹果偷懒回到了大约10年前iBook笔记本电脑的策略。极简主义的明快外观已经成为苹果当前硬件产品线的一贯风格，这款手机看起来却像是来了一个大转弯。我本来以为不会有人想买这款手机的。
But a chance encounter with a stranger this weekend made me rethink my initial stance.
不过，上周末与陌生人的一次偶遇，让我不禁开始重新思考自己最初的看法。
I walked into a sleepy Italian cafe to order takeout for lunch. After paying, I sat down to wait and pulled out my iPhone to respond to some text messages. The young cashier who rang me up watched wistfully. “I want an iPhone — I’m so sick of this thing,” she said, waving around a big gleaming boat of a Samsung device. “Really?,” I said, attention sharpened, going into reporter mode. She had minor complaints about the Android operating system, but mainly, she said, she just liked the way iPhones looked. I told her the new iPhones were going on sale in a few days and her eyes lit up and she nodded and said she wanted one of the color ones.
当时，我走进了一家冷清的意大利餐厅点外带的午餐。付款后，我坐下来等待，拿出自己的iPhone回复几条短信。年轻收银员的招呼声把我拉回现实，我看到她投来了艳羡的目光。“我想要个iPhone，我烦死这玩意了，”她一边说，一边摇晃着锃亮硕大的三星(Samsung)手机。“真的吗？”我问道，同时注意力集中起来，进入到记者的角色中。她对Android操作系统有小小的抱怨，但她表示，主要原因是特别喜欢iPhone的外观。我告诉她，新iPhone过几天就会上市。她的眼睛亮了起来，点头说，她想买一款彩色的。
I told her that I’d been eyeing the gold one myself, even though I already had a perfectly good phone right now. She said the gold and silver ones looked nice, but that they weren’t flashy enough for her. Most people wouldn’t be able to immediately tell it was a gold iPhone simply by looking at it, she said.
我告诉她，尽管现在使用的手机完全没问题，我还是看上了金色那款。她回答，金色和银色看起来都不错，但她觉得还不够炫。她说，多数人没法一眼看出那是个金色的iPhone。
“I want people to know that this is a new phone,” she said.
她说：“我想让大家知道，这可是个新手机。”
The interaction made me wonder if my knee-jerk reaction to the C-series phones was too hasty.
此番交流让我开始思考，自己对C系列的下意识反应是否太草率了？
One of the iPhone’s biggest strengths has always been its branding as a luxury item, a device that lends its owner an unparalleled aura of cool and chic. Having the newest iPhone or iPad was an even stronger symbol of status. It is something that rival hardware makers have struggled to emulate and a reputation that could potentially be damaged with the introduction of a cheaper device, as my colleague Brian X. Chen reported last week.
iPhone的一个最大优势向来是其奢侈品的品牌形象：它是一款能给拥有者带来无以伦比的新潮与优雅气场的设备，拥有最新款的iPhone或iPad则更能有力地体现地位。这种东西，让苹果的硬件竞争对手苦于效仿；但正如我的同事布莱恩·X·陈(Brian X. Chen)在上周的文章中指出的那样，这种名声也可能因推出廉价设备而受损。
But as the iPhone evolved from the third-generation 3GS model to the fourth and fifth, something interesting started to happen. It was virtually impossible to tell the devices apart. At a glance, the iPhone 4, 4S and 5 are practically identical.
不过，随着iPhone从第三代的3GS演化到第四代与第五代，一些有趣的情况也开始出现。人们基本无法分辨这些设备属于哪一代，一眼看过去，iPhone 4、4S和5差不多长一个样。
Of course, that is partly because the current iteration of the iPhone is pretty good — and Apple doesn’t seem to see the need to improve on it very much, as Matt Buchanan over at The New Yorker wrote last week.
当然，部分原因在于，目前的iPhone升级款相当不错。正如马特·布坎南(Matt Buchanan)上周在《纽约客》(The New Yorker)上写到的那样，苹果似乎没有看到进行巨大改进的必要。
But perhaps Apple is starting to realize that even if they don’t need to make significant changes to their flagship phone, they still need to sate the desire of their buying base, who want to show off their phone hardware as much as they do a new pair of fall boots or a new handbag. Originally, that was the iPhone itself, then the introduction of the app store and the plethora of cool games and services you could demo to your friends. But the iPhone 5C, which is only marginally better than its predecessors, is designed to make people feel good about buying what is essentially an old phone, repackaged in colorful plastic. The psychology of the new, in other words. Because for better or worse, Apple isn’t just about ownership — it’s about shownership, and inspiring desire and jealousy in those around you that you’ve got the latest device.
不过，或许苹果开始意识到，就算不需要对旗舰机型进行重大改动，还是有必要让铁杆买家心满意足，而这些人渴望的是炫耀他们的手机，就像买了新的秋冬款靴子或手袋一样。最初，人们炫耀的是iPhone本身，后来是应用商店的推出，以及可以展示给友人的数不胜数的新潮游戏和服务。至于iPhone 5C，虽然只比旧款稍有改进，但其设计意图是通过换一个彩色塑料外壳，让人们乐于购买一台实质上属于旧款的手机。换句话说，就是满足了喜新厌旧的心理，因为无论好坏，苹果品牌的精髓不仅在于拥有，也在于炫耀，还在于让周围的人对你拥有了最新款产品这件事，产生渴望和嫉妒。
Of course, this is just one story, just one take of thousands of possible anecdotes about the future of Apple and the iPhone. But it’s one that I will continue to mull over in the days before the next iPhone goes on sale.
这当然只是一种说法而已，关于苹果及iPhone的未来，还有成千上万种说法。但在新iPhone上市之前的几天里，我会继续琢磨这种理论。