Friday is the fifth anniversary of the sales debut of the iPhone, the phone that changed everything. Love it or hate it, Apple's touch screen handset has made an impact on some aspect of your life - whether it's how you work, communicate with friends, plan your day or read the news.
上周五是 iPhone 首次面世的五周年纪念日。这一款手机改变了一切。不管你是爱它还是恨它，苹果公司 (Apple) 的触摸屏手机都给你生活的某些方面带来了影响——不管是你的工作方式，还是和朋友的交流方式，还是你做日常计划和阅读报纸的方式。
What follows is a quick reflection on the two major markets that the iPhone disrupted.
iPhone给两大市场带去了震动，我们在下文作简要回顾。
The phone industry: Perhaps Steve Jobs's most significant feat was somehow persuading AT&T to let Apple design the iPhone -- both its software and hardware -- without even letting the carrier touch it.
手机行业：也许史蒂夫·乔布斯 (Steve Jobs) 最显著的功绩就是设法说服了美国电话电报公司 (AT&T) 让苹果进行iPhone 的设计——包括软件和硬件——甚至不让运营商摸一下。
That was a break from the old tradition, in which carriers issued specific instructions to manufacturers and software makers about what would be on a phone. By asserting its authority over the iPhone, Apple was able to design a handset for the customer, not the carrier. It delivered a miniature Internet-enabled computer that was extremely easy to use.
这打破了老传统。传统的做法是运营商向制造商和软件开发商提供具体的说明，告诉他们手机应该有什么功能。通过坚持对iPhone的主导，苹果做到了为用户设计手机，而不是为运营商设计手机。苹果创造了一个微型的联网电脑，在使用上极其简单方便。
The iPhone originally cost $500 with a two-year contract, which made some people, like Microsoft's leader, Steven A. Ballmer, laugh at it. But when the handset's price dropped to $200, people began taking it more seriously. Google and its hardware partners soon introduced handsets with Android software, which had a Web browser and touch screen interface similar to the iPhone's. Other rivals like Palm, Research in Motion and Samsung eventually produced touch screen smartphones to compete as well.
iPhone最初的定价是500美元，外加两年的合同，这曾让一些人笑话，比如微软公司的总裁史蒂夫 ·鲍尔默(Steven A. Ballmer)。然而当iPhone的价格降到了200美元，人们开始重视这款手机了。很快，谷歌 (Google) 和其硬件合作商开发出了使用安卓 (Android) 系统的手机，带有网络浏览器和类似 iPhone 的触摸界面。 其他的竞争对手，如奔迈公司(Palm) 、黑莓公司 (Research in Motion) 和三星公司(Samsung) 最终也生产出了触摸智能手机加入了市场竞争。
Now, all the phone makers are fighting to win customers' hearts with the snazziest hardware and software, as opposed to just delivering boatloads of money to the carriers. Apple redefined the phone as a powerful, versatile tool.
如今，所有的手机制造商都竞相使用各种时髦的硬件和软件来吸引用户，而不再大把大把地给运营商送钱。苹果重新定义了手机，是它成为一个功能强大、用途广泛的工具。
The software industry: When Apple introduced its second iPhone in 2008, it opened the App Store, a digital outlet where customers could download apps to expand the capabilities of the handset. The iPhone soon became a digital Swiss Army knife, capable of turning into a game console, a guitar tuner or a video editor with a few app downloads.
软件行业：苹果在2008年推出了第二代iPhone，它的应用软件商店 (App Store) 也开张了，这是供用户下载软件和扩充手机功能的数字商店。iPhone很快就成为了瑞士军刀的数字版，只要下载一些软件，iPhone就可以变成游戏机、吉他调音器、或是视频编辑器。 
Apple made downloading and buying apps extremely simple. All a customer has to do is punch in an iTunes password and hit the download button - something the company had already trained millions of people to do when they bought iTunes music. As a result, a few lucky software developers struck it rich from sales of their apps. Suddenly, being an independent software maker became a viable career, not just a hobby. Many start-ups have formed around making apps.
苹果让下载和购买应用程序变得极其简单。用户要做的就是输入iTunes的密码，点击下载的按钮——用户购买iTunes音乐的时候，就已经对这一操作熟稔于心。因此，一些幸运的软件开发商从售卖应用软件上赚了一大笔。突然之间，独立的软件开发者成了一个可行的职业，而不再只是业余爱好。围绕软件开发，很多新兴创业公司应运而生。
Before, small software makers relied on a shareware model to market their apps, in which they would offer a stripped-down, free version of their product to entice people to buy the full version. But this strategy was largely overshadowed by major software companies like Adobe or Microsoft with huge marketing budgets and retail partnerships.
以前，小型的软件开发商依靠共享软件模式来营销他们的产品，他们会提供一个不收费的精简版本来吸引用户购买完整版本。但这种营销策略很大程度被Adobe和微软这类大型软件公司的阴影所笼罩，这些大公司有庞大的营销预算和零售伙伴。