SAN FRANCISCO — Apple now has more product offerings. And Apple now sells its products in more places. But for the third consecutive quarter, Apple does not have more profit.
旧金山——苹果(Apple)现在有更多的产品。而且现在苹果正在更多的地方出售这些产品。但是，苹果的利润已经连续第三个季度没有增长了。
On Monday, Apple reported a profit of $7.5 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter, on revenue of $37.5 billion, down from earnings of $8.2 billion on $36 billion in revenue during the same period last year.
周一，苹果公布了第四财季财报，其中盈利为75亿美元（约合456.5亿人民币），总收入375亿美元，低于去年同期360亿美元收入中的82亿美元盈利。
Apple’s iPhone sales were up sharply, thanks in part to the introduction of new iPhone models last month. But iPad sales were flat, and Mac sales slowed down — and both of those devices brought in less revenue than a year ago.
苹果的iPhone销量大幅上升，这跟上个月刚刚推出新款机型有关。但是iPad销量没有增长，Mac销售放缓——这两种设备带来的收入都比一年前少了。
“Those are really good numbers obviously,” said Tero Kuittinen, an independent technology analyst for Alekstra, a mobile diagnostics firm, referring to overall revenue and profit. “But I think the tablet problem is undermining them.”
“这些数据当然是很漂亮的，”移动分析机构Alekstra的独立科技分析师泰罗·库伊蒂宁(Tero Kuittinen)这样评价总体的收入和利润。“但是我认为平板电脑的问题拖后腿了。”
Apple’s profit remains the envy of the tech industry — and most other industries. But the slowdown of its growth has become a concern for some investors. Apple is counting on new products to improve its bottom line, especially during the coming holiday season, the most lucrative time of year for hardware makers. In September, the company released two new iPhones, and last week, it introduced new Mac laptops and two new iPads, the company’s popular tablets.
苹果的盈利仍然是让科技产业——以及其他大多数产业——看着眼红的。但一些投资人对其增长放缓产生了担忧。苹果现在希望依靠新产品来增进账面业绩，尤其是在接下来的假日季，也就是一年中硬件生产商生意最红火的时间。公司在9月发布了两款iPhone，上周又推出了新款Mac手提电脑，此外，很受欢迎的平板电脑iPad也有了两个新款。
On the earnings call, Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said: “It’s going to be an iPad Christmas.”
在收入电话会上，苹果首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)说：“这将是一个iPad圣诞节。”
And there is little doubt that iPads will sell in huge quantities in the next quarter. But there is doubt about which iPads will sell best — the new iPad Air, which is the larger and more expensive model, or the iPad Mini.
iPad在下一季度将会大卖，这一点几乎不存在疑问。但是哪一款iPad会有最好的销量还不一定——是更大、更贵的新款iPad Air，还是iPad Mini。
The Mini has become a popular choice among consumers since it was first released last year. But the device has a smaller profit margin than its more expensive cousins, and its high sales may be part of the reason behind a 13 percent decline in overall iPad revenue.
自去年发布以来，Mini在消费者中间一直很受欢迎。但是这款设备的利润率比它那位价格更贵的表亲要小，而iPad总销售收入的13%跌幅，应该就跟Mini的热卖有关。
That decline in revenue, combined with flat sales, is particularly troubling at a time when the tablet market is still young and growing quickly. Apple sold 14.1 million iPads over the quarter, up barely from 14 million in the quarter a year ago. That is far from the pace of the market: manufacturers are expected to ship 184.4 million tablets in 2013, up from 120 million last year, according to Gartner.
眼下的平板市场还很年轻，增长很快，这就使得苹果的这种收入的下降和销量增长的停滞显得格外糟糕。苹果在一个季度里售出了1410万台iPad，比去年同期的1400万多出那么一点点。市场的步伐远远比这快：据高德纳(Gartner)的数据，制造商们预计2013年平板电脑总出货量可达1.844亿台，相比之下去年是1.2亿台。
“In a strongly growing market, clearly that’s a problem,” said Mr. Kuittinen. He added that Apple had clearly sacrificed market share to competitors of cheaper tablets like Amazon and Google in order to protect its profit margins.
“在市场增长强劲的背景下，这显然是个问题，”库伊蒂宁说。他还指出，苹果为了保护自己的利润率，明显在把市场份额拱手让给亚马逊(Amazon)和谷歌(Google)等公司生产的价格更低廉的平板。
“Investors have bad memories from companies who decided they’re going to give up market share in the consumer electronics space,” he said, referring to Apple’s decision, nearly a generation ago, to focus on profits with its Macintosh computers. The company came roaring back in the last decade after almost disappearing.
“那些决定让出电子消费品市场份额的公司，都曾让投资者很不好过，”库伊蒂宁说，他指的是大约20年前，苹果决定重点销售麦金托什电脑(Macintosh)以提高利润。而过去10年，苹果在几乎销声匿迹的情况下，强势回归。
In the last quarter, Mac sales were slightly down. The company said it sold 4.6 million Macs, compared with 4.9 million in the same quarter last year.
在刚刚过去的季度，Mac的销量略微有所下降。苹果称共售出460万台Mac电脑，相比之下去年同期的销量为490万台。
IPhones sales were a different matter, as the devices flew off the shelves. The company said it sold 33.8 million iPhones, up from 26.9 million iPhones in the same quarter last year. Wall Street analysts had expected that Apple would sell 29 million to 38 million new iPhones.
随着新款iPhone的开售，它的销量又是另一种状况。苹果称上季度共售出3380万台iPhone，相比去年同期的2690万台有所增长。华尔街分析师曾预计苹果将售出2900万到3800万台新款iPhone。
This year, for the first time, Apple released two new iPhone models at once — the lower-cost, plastic iPhone 5C, and the high-end iPhone 5S. In the past, it has released just one at time. The company also for the first time released new iPhones at the same time in many places around the world.
今年，苹果首次同时推出两个新款iPhone——塑料机身的低成本iPhone 5C以及高端机型iPhone 5S。过去，苹果每次都只推出一款新机型。苹果还首次在世界多地同时推出了新款iPhone。
But because the two phones were released toward the end of last quarter, it is too early to tell whether the second new iPhone will translate into significantly higher sales. The uptick in iPhone sales over the last quarter most likely came from early adopters quickly snatching up the iPhone 5S.
但由于两款新iPhone的发布时间已接近季度末，现在还不清楚较低端新款iPhone是否能大幅提高销量。在过去一个季度，iPhone销量的微幅上涨很可能是因为一些尝鲜者迅速入手了iPhone 5S。
On the sidelines of Apple’s recent product releases, some investors have clamored for Apple to unload some of its growing cash pile back to shareholders. Carl C. Icahn, the activist investor, has pushed Apple to begin a buyback of $150 billion in stock.
苹果最近发布新品期间，一些投资者强烈要求苹果从不断增长的现金储备中拿出一些返还股东。投资者中的积极分子卡尔·C·伊坎(Carl C. Icahn)已敦促苹果开始回购价值1500亿美元的股票。
On the earnings call, Mr. Cook gave no indication that Apple would heed Mr. Icahn’s suggestion. In the last five quarters, it has returned $36 billion to shareholders in dividends, he said.
在收入电话会议上，库克并没有表示苹果会听取伊坎的建议。在过去五个季度里，苹果已将360亿美元以分红的形式返还股东。
Mr. Cook also said that Apple had made 15 acquisitions, which he said illustrated that the company was investing its cash in areas that could help its growth. He also suggested that the company was working on new product categories. The new products might include a long-rumored smartwatch or Apple television.
库克还说，苹果已完成15次收购，这表明公司在将现金投入到能帮助它发展的地方。库克还表示，苹果在开发新的产品种类。新产品可能包括一款传闻已久的智能手表和苹果电视。
The company beat the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had expected earnings of $7.93 a share and revenue of $36.84 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters.
公司的表现超过了华尔街分析师的预期。根据汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)对分析师进行的一项调查，分析师曾预测，苹果每股收入为7.93美元，总收入将达368.4亿美元。
Shares in the company were essentially flat in after-hours trading.
苹果股票在盘后交易中基本持平。
While hardware takes the front seat of Apple’s business, the company also made big moves with software recently. Last week, it said it would offer its Mac operating system free along with a suite of productivity apps for Macs, iPads and iPhones.
尽管现在苹果主推其硬件设备，但公司最近也在软件领域有些大动作。上周，苹果表示，将免费提供Mac操纵系统，以及针对Mac、iPad和iPhone的办公效率app。
The free software offerings could be a long-term play for Apple to assault Microsoft, said Laurence Isaac Balter, chief market strategist at Oracle Investment Research, which has clients that own Apple shares.
赠送免费软件可能是苹果用来对付微软的长期手段，神谕投资研究所(Oracle Investment Research)首席市场策略师劳伦斯·艾萨克·巴尔特(Laurence Isaac Balter)表示。该研究所的一些客户是苹果的股东。
“The free access to the software platform drives a stake in the heart of Microsoft,” Mr. Balter said. “It’s now a game of premium platform with free software, which puts Microsoft at a huge disadvantage.”
“让软件免费，这击中了微软的要害，”巴尔特说。“现在人们要的是一个拥有免费软件的优质平台，而这对微软十分不利。”