SAN FRANCISCO — Apple's iPhone has officially entered a slow-growth period.
旧金山——苹果的iPhone已经正式进入了缓慢增长期。
Apple on Tuesday said that it sold 74.8 million iPhones in its fiscal first quarter, which ended Dec. 26, up less than 1 percent from the 74.5 million iPhones sold a year ago. That represented the slowest year-over-year rate of growth for the device since it was introduced in 2007. The iPhone, Apple's flagship product, is closely watched by investors because the smartphone accounts for two-thirds of the company's annual revenue.
苹果本周二表示，在截至12月26日的第一财季，公司售出了7480万部iPhone，与上年同期7450万部相比，销量增长不到1%。这创下了iPhone自2007年面世以来的最低年同比增长率。iPhone是苹果的旗舰产品，受到投资者的密切关注，因为该公司年营收的三分之二都来自于这种智能手机。
In total, Apple's revenue for the quarter was $75.9 billion, up 1.7 percent from a year ago, and lower than Wall Street forecasts of $76.6 billion. Net profit was $18.4 billion, up from $18 billion a year earlier.
总体而言，苹果在该季度的营收为759亿美元，较上年同期增长1.7%，低于华尔街预期的766亿美元。季度净利润为184亿美元，高于上年同期的180亿美元。
Apple's rate of growth is not set to improve anytime soon. The company, based in Cupertino, California, also issued a lower-than-anticipated forecast for the current quarter, which ends in March. Apple projected revenue of $50 billion to $53 billion, down from $58 billion a year earlier and lower than the $55.4 billion forecast by Wall Street, according to S&P Capital IQ.
苹果的增长速度不会很快出现改善。本季度将在今年3月份截止，这家总部设在加州库珀蒂诺的公司对本季度的预测也低于人们预期。苹果预计营收将在500亿到530亿美元之间，据标普资本智商(S&P Capital IQ)的数据，这个数字低于上年同期的580亿美元，也低于华尔街的预测值554亿美元。
The results and forecast reflect how Apple, under its chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, is grappling with becoming a maturing tech company. While Apple once delivered high double-digit revenue gains on the back of soaring sales of the iPhone and other devices, growth sales have slowed as the iPhone has begun saturating the market and the company has not introduced a new blockbuster device.
这样的业绩和预测反映了苹果的处境，在首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)的带领下，这家高科技公司正在奋力应对成熟期的到来。虽然之前在iPhone等设备销售额飙升的推动下，苹果实现过高达两位数的营收增长，但随着iPhone市场开始饱和，公司又未推出新的热门设备，销售增长已经出现了放缓。
In the period leading up to the earnings announcement, investors had lowered expectations for the quarter based on the belief that demand for Apple's latest iPhones, the 6S and 6S Plus, had been weak. Several companies that supply iPhone parts to Apple recently blamed a lack of demand for their lower-than-expected financial results.
投资者认为苹果最新款iPhone6S和6S Plus需求疲软，所以在财报公布之前，他们已经降低了对该季度业绩的预期。近段时间，iPhone的几家零部件供应商在解释其财务业绩低于预期的时候，也归咎于苹果的需求不旺。
Luca Maestri, Apple's chief financial officer, said in an interview that the results were affected by the strengthening U.S. dollar.
苹果首席财务官卢卡·马埃斯特里(Luca Maestri)接受采访时表示，公司业绩受到了美元汇率走强的影响。
With the iPhone's sales growth flattening, other products did not pick up the slack. Sales of the iPad tablet dropped 25 percent from a year earlier in terms of units, while Mac computers declined 4 percent.
在iPhone销售增长乏力的同时，苹果的其他产品也表现欠佳。iPad平板电脑的销量较上年同期下降了25%，Mac电脑销量也减少了4%。
The company did see growth in services, where revenue rose 26 percent, while revenue from a category known as other products — which include the Apple Watch — increased 62 percent.
公司在服务类别上的营收确有增长，涨幅为26%，而且在“其他产品”类别——其中包括苹果手表——营收增长了62%。