BEIRUT — The Islamic State militants struck before dawn, staging house-to-house raids in a cluster of villages nestled along the Khabur River in northeastern Syria. They abducted at least 70 Christians — many of them women and children — while thousands of others fled to safer areas.
贝鲁特——伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子黎明前发动袭击，对叙利亚东北部哈布尔河沿岸的一系列村庄进行了挨家挨户的突击搜查。他们绑架了至少70名基督徒，包括许多妇女和儿童，另有数千人逃到了安全一些的地区。
The captives' fate was unclear Tuesday, a day after they were seized, and relatives said mobile phone service was cut off and land lines also were not going through, adding to the fear and uncertainty about their loved ones. Heavy fighting was reported in the area.
事件发生一天后的周二，被俘者命途如何尚不明朗。亲属称移动电话服务被切断了，座机也无法接通。这加剧了他们对至亲处境的担忧和不安。有报道称该地区发生过激战。
The Islamic State group has a history of killing captives, including foreign journalists, Syrian soldiers and Kurdish militiamen. Most recently, militants in Libya affiliated with the extremist group released a video showing the beheading of 21 Egyptian Christians.
伊斯兰国有杀害俘虏的先例，被杀者包括外国记者、叙利亚士兵和库尔德民兵。距今最近的是隶属于该极端组织的利比亚武装分子公布了一段视频，显示21名埃及基督徒被斩首。
The group's bloody campaign in Syria and Iraq, where it seeks to form a self-styled caliphate, has repeatedly targeted religious minorities since it took control of a third of both countries. The United States and coalition of regional partners are conducting a campaign of airstrikes against the group.
该组织谋求在叙利亚和伊拉克建立一个自封的哈里发国。自控制两国三分之一的领土以来，该组织的杀戮行动多次瞄准少数宗教群体。美国和地区性合作伙伴组成的联盟正在对该组织进行空袭。
The militants struck near the town of Tal Tamr in Hassakeh province, an area predominated by Assyrian Christians. Most of the captives came from Tal Shamiram and some from Tal Hurmiz.
武装分子的袭击发生在哈塞克省的塔尔特玛尔镇附近，亚述基督徒在该地区占多数。大部分被俘者来自塔尔沙米拉姆，部分来自塔尔胡尔米兹。
Nuri Kino, the head of a group called A Demand For Action, said between 70 and 100 Assyrians were taken captive. About 3,000 people fled and have sought refuge in the cities of Hassakeh and Qamishli, he said, adding that his activist group based its information on conversations with villagers who fled the attack and their relatives. His group focuses on religious minorities in the Middle East.
一个名为“要求行动”(A Demand For Action)的组织的负责人努里·基诺(Nuri Kino)称，有70到100名亚述人被俘，大约3000人逃到了哈塞克和卡米什利市避难。他接着表示，他领导的活动团体与躲过袭击的村民及其亲属的对话，从而掌握了相关信息。他领导的团体主要关注中东的少数宗教群体。
"Have they been slaughtered? Are they still alive? We're searching for any news," said an Assyrian Christian woman from Tal Shamiram who now lives in Beirut. The woman said she has been trying to find out what has become of her parents, her brother and his wife and their children, but couldn't reach anyone in the village.
“他们遇害了吗？他们还活着吗？我们一直在寻找各种消息，”来自塔尔沙米拉姆的一名亚述女基督徒说。现居贝鲁特的她说，她一直想知道父母、兄嫂和侄儿怎么样了，但却联系不上村子里的任何人。
"I feel so helpless, I cannot do anything for them but pray," she said, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of endangering relatives believed to be held by the militants.
“我感到很绝望，除了为他们祈祷什么都做不了，”她说。因为害怕危及据信被武装分子俘获的亲人，她要求匿名。
The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which also reported the abductions, put the number of Christians held by the Islamic State group at 90. The Observatory relies on a network of activists inside Syria.
总部设在英国的叙利亚人权观察组织(Syrian Observatory for Human Rights)也通报了此次绑架事件，称伊斯兰国绑架的基督徒人数为90名。该人权观察组织依靠叙利亚境内的一个活动人士组成的网络来运作。 Both groups said that most of the captives come from Tal Shamiram, located some 85 kilometers (50 miles) southwest of the provincial capital of Qamishli, and nearby Tal Hurmiz. At least four civilians, including a 17-year-old, were killed in clashes later Monday, a relative of one of the victims said on condition of anonymity.
上述两个组织都表示，大部分被俘者来自位于省府卡米什利西南大约85公里的塔尔沙米拉姆和邻近的塔尔胡尔米兹。一名遇难者的亲属匿名表示，在周一晚些时候的冲突中，至少四名平民遇害，其中一人年仅17岁。
The extremists could use the Assyrian captives to try to arrange a prisoner swap with the Kurdish militias it is battling in northeastern Syria.
伊斯兰国极端分子可能利用这些亚述人俘虏，与库尔德武装进行一次战俘交换。双方目前正在叙利亚东北部交战。
Last year, IS militants abducted more than 150 Kurdish boys and held them in a school in Aleppo province where they subjected them to daily instruction on militant ideology for five months before releasing them in batches. The group has also released Turkish truck drivers and diplomats after holding them for months. It was not known whether a prisoner deal was struck in those instances.
去年，伊斯兰国的极端分子绑架了150多名库尔德男孩，将他们关在阿勒颇省的一所学校里，在五个月的时间里每天向他们灌输极端思想，然后分批释放。该组织还释放了被他们扣押数月的土耳其卡车司机和外交官。目前尚不清楚在这些例子中是否达成了战俘交换协议。
Hassakeh province is strategically important because it borders Turkey and areas controlled by IS in Iraq. Kurdish militiamen from the People's Protection Units, or YPG, backed by the coalition airstrikes, have made advances in the province in a new offensive launched this week.
由于毗邻土耳其以及伊斯兰国在伊拉克控制的地区，哈塞克省有着重要的战略意义。在联盟空袭行动的支持下，来自人民保护部队(People's Protection Units)的库尔德武装人员本周发动了新的攻势，在该省取得了一些进展。
Heavy fighting broke out in the province Monday as Kurdish fighters and IS militants battled for control of villages near the Iraqi and Turkish borders.
周一，随着库尔德武装人员和伊斯兰国极端分子就伊拉克和土耳其边境附近的村庄展开争夺，哈塞克省爆发激烈战事。
The Kurds have been one of the most effective foes of IS, a reputation they burnished in recent months by repelling an assault by the extremists on the town of Kobani on the Turkish border. The coalition carried out hundreds of airstrikes that helped the Kurds break the siege in January.
库尔德人一直是伊斯兰国最强大的敌人之一，最近几个月，库尔德人再次证明了这一点，他们在土耳其边境的科巴尼(Kobani)击退了极端分子的进攻。1月份，联盟实施了数百次空袭，帮助库尔德人突破了围困。
On Tuesday, heavy clashes between Kurdish fighters and IS militants raged near Tal Tamr.
周二，库尔德武装人员和伊斯兰国极端分子在塔尔特玛尔镇附近激烈交战。
The Assyrian woman in Beirut said that before Monday, clashes would occasionally break out near Tal Shamiram, but that IS militants were mostly on Mount Abdulaziz, some 25 kilometers to the south.
贝鲁特的这名亚述妇女说，在周一之前，塔尔沙米拉姆附近只是偶尔会爆发冲突，伊斯兰国武装分子基本上在南部相距25公里左右的阿卜杜勒阿齐兹山活动。
"My family visited me last month and returned to Syria. There were clashes, but it was normal, nothing exceptional," she said, her voice breaking with emotion.
“我的家人上个月来看过我，然后返回了叙利亚。那里当时在发生冲突，但这是正常的，并不罕见，”她说。她的话语因情绪激动而断断续续。
The Islamic State group's online radio station, al-Bayan, said Tuesday that IS fighters had detained "tens of crusaders" — the term it frequently uses for Christians — and seized 10 villages around Tal Tamr after clashes with Kurdish militiamen.
伊斯兰国组织的网络电台al-Bayan周二称，在与库尔德武装的多次交火之后，伊斯兰国武装人员俘虏了“数十名十字军战士”——该组织常常用这个词来指代基督徒——夺取了塔尔特玛尔附近的10个村庄。
It reported an intense movement of coalition planes over Hassakeh.
这家电台报道称，在哈塞克上空发现了联盟飞机的大规模行动。
The U.S. Central Command said the coalition carried out 10 airstrikes near Hassakeh on Monday, striking at nine IS tactical units and destroying two of their vehicles.
美军中央司令部(U.S. Central Command)称，周一，联盟在哈塞克附近发动了10次空袭，袭击了伊斯兰国的九个作战单位，毁掉了他们的两部车辆。