BEIRUT, Lebanon — The Islamic State’s spokesman and overseer ofexternal terrorist operations, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, was killed in the Syrian province of Aleppo, the group’s news outlet reported on Tuesday.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的新闻机构周二报道，该组织的发言人兼外部恐怖行动负责人阿布·穆罕默德·阿德纳尼(Abu Muhammad al-Adnani)在叙利亚阿勒颇省遇袭身亡。
A founding member of the group, Mr. Adnani, a 39-year-old Syrian, was its chief propagandist, running an operation that put out slickly produced videos of beheadings and massacres that shocked the world and sent a rush of recruits running to join the group in Syria.
时年39岁的叙利亚人阿德纳尼是伊斯兰国的创始成员，负责该组织的宣传事务。就是他领导的团队公布了那些制作考究的斩首和大屠杀视频。这些视频震惊世界，并吸引了一众新成员为加入该组织而涌入叙利亚。
Accounts from arrested members of the Islamic State confirmed Mr. Adnani’s role as an operational leader as well. He oversaw the group’s external operations division, responsible for recruiting operatives around the world and instigating or organizing them to carry out attacks that have included Paris, Brussels and Dhaka, Bangladesh.
被俘虏的伊斯兰国成员的供述证实，阿德纳尼还是一名行动负责人。他领导着该组织的外部行动部门，负责在全世界招募实施人员，并煽动或组织他们制造袭击，包括巴黎、布鲁塞尔和孟加拉国达卡的袭击。
The Islamic State’s news outlet, Amaq, said Mr. Adnani had been killed while checking up on the group’s military operations in Aleppo Province.
伊斯兰国的新闻机构“阿玛克新闻社”(Amaq)称，阿德纳尼是在检视该组织在阿勒颇省的军事行动时遇袭身亡的。
It was unclear what force might have been behind his death, however. In the northern part of Aleppo Province, near the Turkish border, the Islamic State is currently under attack by long list of antagonists: directly by Turkish, American and Russian airstrikes, by American- and Turkish-backed Syrian rebels, and by American-backed Kurdish rebels and their Arab allies.
不过，尚不清楚造成阿德纳尼之死的背后可能是什么力量。在靠近土耳其边境的阿勒颇省北部，伊斯兰国目前遇到了多股力量的攻击：土耳其、美国和俄罗斯直接发动的空袭，美国和土耳其支持的叙利亚反对派，以及美国支持的库尔德反对派及其阿拉伯盟友。
It was Mr. Adnani who, in September 2014, released an audio statement calling on Muslims living in the West to strike out wherever and however they could.
在2014年9月，正是阿德纳尼发布了一份音频声明，号召生活在西方的穆斯林以可能的任何方式在可能的任何地方发动袭击。
“If you can kill a disbelieving American or European — especially the spiteful and filthy French — or an Australian, or a Canadian, or any other disbeliever from the disbelievers waging war, including the citizens of the countries that entered into a coalition against the Islamic State, then rely upon Allah, and kill him in any manner or way however it may be,” Mr. Adnani said in the recording.
“如果能杀死一个不信安拉的美国人、欧洲人——特别是心怀叵测、卑鄙无耻的法国人——澳大利亚人、加拿大人或是这场由怀疑安拉的人发动的战争中其他任何一个不信安拉的人，包括结盟反对伊斯兰国的国家的公民，那么就依靠安拉，以任何可能的方式或方法杀死他，不管这种方式方法是什么，”阿德纳尼在录音中说。
He warned Americans and Europeans that they would come to suffer for fighting the Islamic State.
他警告美国和欧洲民众，他们要出来承担打击伊斯兰国的后果。
“You will pay the price when your economies collapse,” he declared. “You will pay the price when your sons are sent to wage war against us, and they return to you as disabled amputees, or inside coffins, or mentally ill. You will pay the price as you are afraid of traveling to any land. You will pay the price as you walk on your streets, turning right and left, fearing the Muslims. You will not feel secure even in your bedrooms.”
“当你们的经济崩溃，便是你们付出代价的时候，”他说。“当你们的爱子被派来与我们作战，却以截肢残疾人或是精神病人的身份，或是躺在棺材里回到你们身边，便是你们付出代价的时候。当你们害怕去任何国家，便是你们付出代价的时候。当你们走在自己门前的街道上，右转和左转时却害怕遇到穆斯林，便是你们付出代价的时候。即便是在自己的卧室里，你们也不会有安全感。”
Even as the Islamic State has lost territory on the battlefields in Iraq and Syria, it has continued to press its terror attacks abroad seemingly unabated. In May, Mr. Adnani declared: “Do you think, America, that defeat is by the loss of towns or territory? Were we defeated when we lost the cities in Iraq and retreated to the desert without a city or a land?” He offered an answer: “No, true defeat is losing the will and desire to fight.”
尽管在伊拉克和叙利亚的战场上损失了地盘，但伊斯兰国在国外发动恐怖袭击的势头似乎依然没有减弱。在5月，阿德纳尼宣称：“美国，你以为失败是用失去城池或领土来衡量的吗？我们失去伊拉克的城市，不占领城镇或土地而退回到沙漠就是失败了吗？”他自问自答：“不是，真正的失败是失去战斗的意志和欲望。”