A video released Sunday by the Islamic State appears to show the mass beheading of a group of 21 Coptic Christians, who are made to kneel beside the sea in what is identified as the coast near Tripoli, Libya.
伊斯兰国(Islamic State)周日发布的一段视频显示，有21名科普特基督徒被集体斩首，他们被迫跪在海边，地点经辨认为利比亚的黎波里附近。
It is the first time that the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, has released an official video showing such a killing outside of the territory it controls in Syria and Iraq.
这是伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）首次发布官方视频展示其在叙利亚和伊拉克所控制的地区以外的地方，实施这种杀戮活动。
The footage begins with slow motion images of the Egyptian Christian hostages, who were kidnapped in Libya several weeks ago, walking single file along the sandy beach. The hostages are all wearing orange jumpsuits. Each one is led by a black-clad executioner who is grasping a knife. The only sound is that of the crashing waves. They are made to kneel, and then one by one they are beheaded.
视频一开始展示的是这些埃及基督徒人质的慢动作画面，他们排成纵队沿着沙滩行走，都身穿橙色连体服。他们是几周前在利比亚遭到绑架的。他们每人被一名身穿黑衣、紧握匕首的行刑者引领。视频里惟一的声音是海浪的撞击声。他们被迫跪下，随后被逐个斩首。
The lead executioner, who wears a brown mask over his face, thrusts his dagger at the camera. “Oh people, recently you have seen us on the hills of as-Sham and Dabiq’s plain, chopping off the heads that have been carrying the cross for a long time,” he says in fluent English, using terms referring to localities in and around Syria. “And today, we are on the south of Rome, on the land of Islam, Libya, sending another message.”
领头的行刑者蒙着棕色面罩，他把匕首举到镜头前。“噢人们，你们最近已经看到，我们在阿兹沙姆的山坡和达比克(Dabiq)的平原上，砍掉了这些佩戴十字架多年的头颅，”他用流利的英语说，“今天，我们在罗马以南，在伊斯兰的土地上，在利比亚，发出又一道启示。”
The high-quality video, which bears the logo of Al Hayat, the official publishing arm of the Islamic State, is in stark contrast to the footage released in the past by affiliates of the group. The footage in those videos was shaky and grainy, suggesting an amateur production. By contrast, the five-minute clip released Sunday is professional and cinematic, and is filmed in the same style as previous Islamic State videos, including one that showed the mass beheading of captured Syrian soldiers last year.
带有伊斯兰国官方出版机构Al Hayat（意为“生活”。——译注）标识的这段高清视频，与过去该组织的附属机构公布的画面形成了强烈对比。那些视频里的镜头摇晃且模糊，表明制作水平业余。相比之下，周日公布的这段时长五分钟的视频专业且具有电影特征，拍摄风格与伊斯兰国之前公布的视频一样，其中包括一段显示去年大规模集中斩首被俘叙利亚士兵的视频。