WASHINGTON — Defying Western efforts to confront the Islamic State on the battlefield, the group has evolved in its reach and organizational ability, with increasingly dangerous hubs outside Iraq and Syria and strategies that call for using spectacular acts of violence against civilians.
华盛顿——尽管西方国家做出了种种努力来在战场上对抗伊斯兰国(Islamic State)，该组织的影响范围和组织能力却在逐渐增加，在伊拉克和叙利亚境外的据点变得日益危险，策略上也越来越鼓励使用引人注目的暴力行为来攻击平民。
But even as the militant attacks were playing out across Paris on Friday night, the United States carried out an airstrike — planned days in advance — against the leader of the Islamic State in Libya, which has emerged as a pivotal stronghold for the group in North Africa. U.S. and British Special Operations forces have for months been conducting secret surveillance missions in Libya to monitor the rise of fighters aligned with the Islamic State.
不过，周五晚上，在武装分子袭击了整个巴黎的同时，美国对伊斯兰国在利比亚的头目发动了空袭。该地近年成为了伊斯兰国在北非的关键据点。在巴黎发生恐怖袭击前，此次空袭就已策划多日。多个月来，英美两国的特种部队在利比亚进行秘密监控任务，侦察这群和伊斯兰国结盟的武装分子的活动。
The massacre in Paris on Friday, following bombings in Beirut and the downing of a Russian passenger jet over Egypt, all claimed by the Islamic State, reveals a terrorist organization that has changed in significant ways from the West's initial understanding of it as a group focused on holding territory in Syria and Iraq and building a caliphate, or Islamic state.
周五在巴黎发生的大屠杀，和之前在贝鲁特发生的爆炸袭击及在埃及坠毁的俄罗斯客机一样，都由伊斯兰国宣称负责。这揭示了该恐怖组织在明显地改变策略：与西方国家最初的理解不同，它不再专注于占领叙利亚和伊拉克的土地，并建立哈里发国，即伊斯兰国。
And actions by the United States and its allies — including a Western bombing campaign of Islamic State-held fighting positions and oil facilities, coordinated with a ground offensive by Kurdish forces to cut off a major supply line — foreshadow how the West might respond to the growing menace in the coming weeks.
而美国及其盟友的行动——包括西方对伊斯兰国阵地和石油设施的一轮轰炸行动，期间库尔德军在地面配合进攻，切断对方的一条主要补给线——预示了在接下来的一段时间里，西方对这个日益严重的威胁可能作出的回应。
The Islamic State — also known as ISIS, ISIL or Daesh — has for the first time engaged in what appears to be a centrally planned campaign of terrorist attacks aimed at inflicting huge civilian casualties on distant territory, forcing many counterterrorism officials in the United States and in Europe to recalibrate their assessment of the group.
伊斯兰国又简称为ISIS、ISIL或Daesh。这是首次涉及到疑似经由中央计划的目标是造成遥远国度里大批平民死亡的恐怖袭击，使得美国和欧洲的许多反恐官员不得不重新调整自己对该组织的评估。
“They have crossed some kind of Rubicon,” said William McCants, a scholar at the Brookings Institution and author of “The ISIS Apocalypse.” “They have definitely shifted in their thinking about targeting their enemies.”
“他们已经不能再回头了，”美国布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的学者、《ISIS启示录》(The ISIS Apocalypse)的作者威廉·麦坎茨(William McCants)说。“在关于如何攻击敌人方面，他们的思维肯定发生了改变。”
When the Islamic State's Egyptian arm claimed responsibility for blowing up a Russian charter plane over Sinai two weeks ago, some analysts wondered if the group's Sinai Province of the Islamic State had acted on its own and leapt out in front, even at the cost of risking a Russian military backlash on the parent group in Syria and Iraq.
伊斯兰国的埃及分支声称，对两周前俄罗斯的一架包机在西奈上空炸毁负责。当时部分分析人士还怀疑，伊斯兰国的“西奈省”(Sinai Province)是否在冒着组织在叙利亚和伊拉克的主干可能遭受俄罗斯军事反击的风险，独自策划了袭击，试图藉此引人注意。
But the attacks last week in Paris and Beirut, which the Islamic State also said it carried out, appear to have settled that question and convinced even skeptics that the central leadership was calling the shots.
但是上周巴黎和贝鲁特发生了袭击，伊斯兰国亦宣称由其发动。这些事件似乎解决了上述问题，并说服了许多人，包括持怀疑态度的人士，相信是伊斯兰国的中央领导层发出了实施袭击的命令。
“There is a radical change of perception by the terrorists that they can now act in Paris just as they act in Syria or Baghdad,” said Mathieu Guidère, a terrorism specialist at the University of Toulouse. “With this action, a psychological barrier has been broken.”
“恐怖分子的认知发生了彻底的转变。他们意识到现在可以在巴黎做出和在叙利亚或巴格达同样的事情了，”法国图卢兹大学(University of Toulouse)的恐怖主义问题专家马修·吉戴尔(Mathieu Guidère)说。“透过这次行动，原有的心理障碍被打破了。”
Indeed, at a time when many Western officials were most concerned about Islamic State-inspired lone-wolf attacks — terrifying in their randomness but relatively low in casualties — the attacks in Paris have revived the specter of coordinated, high-casualty attacks planned with the involvement of a relatively large number of perpetrators.
事实上，在巴黎的恐怖袭击发生前，很多西方官员最担心的是受伊斯兰国启发的“独狼式”袭击——这种袭击的可怕之处在于相当随机，但造成的伤亡较低。巴黎的恐怖袭击重新唤起了人们对经过合作、会造成大量伤亡、由较多名犯罪者策划并参与的袭击的恐惧。
U.S. and European authorities said the Paris assault bore the hallmarks of complex attacks conducted by al-Qaida, or of the Mumbai plot in 2008, when 10 Islamic militants carried out a series of 12 shootings and bombings in the Indian city, lasting four days and killing 164 people.
美国和欧洲当局表示，巴黎袭击带有基地组织(Al-Qaida)复杂攻击的标志，也很像2008年的孟买事件。当年，10名伊斯兰激进分子在这座印度城市实施了12宗枪击和爆炸案，事件持续了四天并有164人丧生。
“Their goal is an unconventional urban guerrilla war,” said Franck Chaix, an officer of the Gendarmerie, France's semi-military police force, and a former head of its special intervention force, GIGN.
法国国家宪兵特勤队(GIGN)前负责人、宪兵队(Gendarmerie)的官员弗兰克·查科斯(Franck Chaix)说：“他们的目标是进行非常规的城市游击战。”宪兵队是法国的半军事警察部队，而法国国家宪兵特勤队是其特殊干预部队。
Al-Qaida, the Islamic State's principal forebear, built its identity around spectacular terrorist attacks because its leaders saw themselves as insurgents seeking to overturn Arab governments that they deemed apostates. Al-Qaida wanted to bait the West into military actions that would destabilize Arab states. The Islamic State, in contrast, has increasingly styled itself a state and, in many ways, behaved like one.
基地组织是伊斯兰国的主要前身，透过触目惊心的恐怖袭击确立了自身的特性。这是因为它的领导人认为自己是起义者，试图推翻他们认为是叛教者的那些阿拉伯国家的政府。基地组织想引诱西方国家进行军事行动，从而造成阿拉伯国家的动荡。相比之下，伊斯兰国更多地标榜自己是个政权，并在许多方面都表现得像个政权。
The ideology and motivation behind the change may be opaque for years. Analysts suggest that the messianic and apocalyptic side of its jihadi ideology may have gotten the better of the pragmatic impulse that had previously appeared to guide the group's expansion. Or, experts say, the Islamic State may be seeking to use large terrorist attacks the way a more conventional power might use an air force as a tool of its defense policy, to retaliate against enemy attacks and seek to deter them.
伊斯兰国此番变化背后的意识形态和动机可能多年都不为人知。分析人士认为，它的救世主和世界末日等圣战意识形态可能胜过了之前似乎引导该组织不断扩张的那股实用主义推动力。或者，专家表示，伊斯兰国也许像更为传统的国家可能使用空军作为其国防政策的工具一样，在以大型恐怖袭击的方式来寻求报复并阻止敌人的攻击。
But, if so, its tactics may be shortsighted, causing redoubled Western attempts to crush the militant organization even as the spreading Islamic State structure makes those efforts more challenging.
不过，如果是这样的话，它的策略可谓短视。就算伊斯兰国组织结构的不断扩张构成了更大的挑战，这样的策略仍会造成西方加倍力度来镇压该激进组织。
The attacks come against a backdrop of signs that the Islamic State's leaders based in Raqqa, Syria, may have been building closer cooperation with its two most significant affiliates, or “provinces,” in Libya and Egypt.
这些攻击发生的同时，有迹象显示，盘踞在叙利亚拉卡的伊斯兰国领导层可能一直在跟它两个最重要的分支机构——在利比亚和埃及的“省份”——建立更密切的合作。
The United States broadened its fight against the Islamic State in Libya on Friday night, targeting the group's senior leader there, the Pentagon said Saturday. The airstrike took place in Darnah shortly after the attacks in Paris began, but had been in the works for several days and was not related to the events in France, U.S. officials said.
五角大楼在周六表示，美国在周五晚上扩大了对利比亚境内的伊斯兰国的打击，目标是该组织在那里的高层领导。美国官员称，对德尔纳的空袭开始于巴黎的袭击发生不久后，但此次行动策划了多日，跟在法国发生的事件并没有关系。
The strike was aimed at Abu Nabil, also known as Wissam Najm Abd Zayd al Zubaydi. He is an Iraqi national who led al-Qaida operations in western Iraq from 2004 until 2010. He later moved to eastern Libya to lead Islamic State operations there, the officials said.
这轮空袭的目标是阿布·纳比尔(Abu Nabil)，又名维萨姆·纳杰姆·阿布德·扎伊德·祖贝迪(Wissam Najm Abd Zayd al Zubaydi)。他是一名伊拉克公民，从2004年到2010年领导基地组织在伊拉克西部的行动。美国官员说，他后来转移到了利比亚东部，领导伊斯兰国在那里的活动。
Pentagon officials said they believed the strike, first reported by The Daily Beast, had killed Abu Nabil, though it would take a few days to confirm. It marked the first time the United States has targeted a senior Islamic State operative outside Iraq or Syria.
五角大楼官员表示，虽然需要几天时间来确认，但他们认为这次攻击成功击毙了目标阿布·纳比尔。它标志着美国第一次在伊拉克和叙利亚境外定点打击伊斯兰国的高级成员。“每日野兽”网站(The Daily Beast)首先报道了是次空袭。
Libyan news media reported last week that a senior Islamic State leader had visited Sirte, stirring speculation about the main group's plans for its local branch. The leader, known as Abu Ali al-Anbari, arrived “by the sea,” the Libyan news network 218TV reported, according to a translation by the SITE Intelligence Group.
利比亚新闻媒体上周报道，伊斯兰国的一名高级头目访问了苏尔特，令人猜测该组织总部对当地分支机构有何计划。根据赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)的翻译，利比亚新闻台218TV报道，该名叫做阿布·阿里·安巴里(Abu Ali al-Anbari)的头目“经海路”抵达。
Al-Anbari's arrival may represent what a senior Pentagon official said were signs that Libya could provide a redoubt for the Islamic State even if the group was driven out of Syria and Iraq.
依照五角大楼一名高级官员的说法，安巴里的到来也许是利比亚可为伊斯兰国提供堡垒的迹象，表明就算该组织被逐出叙利亚和伊拉克也有容身之所。