DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — THE 9/11 suicide attack, spearheaded by 19, mostly Saudi, young men in the name of Islam, ignited a debate in the Sunni Arab world about religion and how their societies could have produced such suicidal fanatics. But it was quickly choked off by denial, and by America’s failed invasion of Iraq. Well, conversations here in Dubai, one of the great Arab/Muslim crossroads, make it clear that the rise of the Islamic State “caliphate” in Iraq and Syria, and its barbaric treatment of those who are against them — moderate Sunnis or Shiites, Christians, other minorities and women — has revived this central debate about “who are we?”
阿拉伯联合酋长国迪拜——19个人以伊斯兰教的名义牵头实施了“9·11”自杀式袭击，其中大部分是沙特青年。此事在逊尼派阿拉伯世界引发了争论，对于宗教以及他们的社会怎样催生了这种自杀性狂徒，人们各自发表了意见。但是，拒不承认的态度以及美国失败的伊拉克出兵行动很快就扼杀了那场争论。不过，目前在阿拉伯/穆斯林世界的一大中心迪拜，人们对话的内容显示，伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS）“哈里发”政权在伊拉克和叙利亚的崛起，以及它野蛮对待反对者——温和的逊尼派和什叶派、基督徒、其他少数族群，以及妇女——的行径，重新点燃了关于“我们是谁”的重大辩论。
Why? Because the Islamic State, or ISIS, is homegrown; its aim is not to strike at enemies far away, but to spread and impose its vision of an Islamic society right here and right now; it’s attracting Muslim youths from all over, including the West; its ideology is a violent mutation of the puritanical, nonpluralistic, Wahhabi Islam, the dominant trend in Saudi Arabia, and it is being beamed via Twitter and Facebook — parents here know — directly to their kids. That’s why it’s forcing an inescapable and painful look in the mirror.
为什么会这样呢？因为伊斯兰国是土生土长的现象；它的目的不是打击远方的敌人，而是即刻就地传播并践行对伊斯兰社会的一种愿景；它吸引了包括西方在内的各地穆斯林青年；其意识形态是清教徒式的、一元的、伊斯兰教瓦哈比派的残暴变种，而瓦哈比是沙特阿拉伯的主导教派。这些意识形态通过Twitter和Facebook直接灌输给孩子，这事父母是知道的。这就是为什么它强迫这里的人们在镜中审视自身，无法回避，令人痛苦。
“We can’t avoid this fight any longer — we’re on a train heading for a cliff,” said Abdullah Hamidaddin, an adviser to the Dubai-based Al-Mesbar Studies & Research Center, which tracks Islamist movements and works to promote a more pluralistic culture. What is most striking, though, is how much Al-Mesbar sees ISIS not as just a religious problem that has to be combated with a more inclusive Islamic narrative but as the product of all the problems ailing this region at once: underdevelopment, sectarianism, lagging education, sexual repression, lack of respect for women and lack of pluralism in all intellectual thought.
“我们无法再避免这场斗争了——我们坐在一辆驶向悬崖的火车上，”在位于迪拜的梅思巴研究中心(Al-Mesbar Studies & Research Center)担任顾问的阿卜杜拉·哈米达丁(Abdullah Hamidaddin)说。该中心对伊斯兰主义运动进行追踪，并致力于推动文化的多元化。不过，梅思巴有一个观点非常令人瞩目。他认为，ISIS不只是一个宗教问题，必须用一个更包容的伊斯兰叙事来予以打击；实际上，ISIS是这个地区所有问题的集中爆发：不够发达、宗派主义、教育滞后、性压抑，对女性缺乏尊重，以及所有智识思维都缺乏多元特质。
Rasha al-Aqeedi is an Iraqi editor from Mosul working at Al-Mesbar. She has stayed in touch with people in Mosul since ISIS took over. “What is happening,” she told me, is that the Sunni Muslim population of Mosul “has now awakened from the shock. Before, people would say, ‘Islam is perfect and [the outside world] is after us and hates us.’ Now people are starting to read the books that ISIS is based on. I hear from people in Mosul who say, ‘I am considering becoming an atheist.’ ”
拉夏·阿奎迪(Rasha al-Aqeedi)是梅思巴的一名伊拉克编辑，来自摩苏尔。ISIS占领摩苏尔之后，她依然与当地人保持联系。阿奎迪告诉我，“那里正在发生的状况是”，摩苏尔的逊尼派穆斯林民众“如今已经从震惊中醒过来。之前人们会说，‘伊斯兰教十全十美，是[外面的世界]在针对我们，憎恨我们。’现在，人们开始阅读ISIS的理论。我听到摩苏尔有人说，‘我在考虑成为一个无神论者。’”
She added: When a young man who has not passed the sixth grade joins ISIS and then “comes and tells a teacher at the university what he must teach and that he must wear a long gown, you can imagine the shock. I hear people saying: ‘I am not going to the mosque and pray as long as they are here. They don’t represent Islam. They represent the old Islam that never changed.’ ”
她还说：当一个六年级考试不及格的少年，在加入ISIS之后“告诉一名大学老师必须教哪些内容，以及他必须身着长衫时，你可以想象到那有多么让人震惊。我听到有人说：‘只要他们在这里，我就不会去清真寺祷告。他们并不代表伊斯兰教。他们所代表的是过时的、顽固不化的伊斯兰教。’”
Besides the religious zealots in ISIS, you also find many adventurers and impoverished youths attracted to ISIS simply to be able to lord it over others. Many of the Sunnis who rushed to join ISIS in Mosul came from the much poorer town nearby, Tel Afar, whose citizens were always looked down upon by Mosul Sunnis.
除了ISIS内部的宗教狂热分子之外，你还可以看到，很多喜好投机的贫穷青少年被ISIS吸引，仅仅是为了能够高人一等。很多逊尼派教徒从摩苏尔附近的泰勒阿费尔赶来参加ISIS。该城比摩苏尔贫困得多，民众一直遭到摩苏尔逊尼派教徒的轻视。
“You see these boys [from Tel Afar]. They smoke. They drink. They have tattoos,” said Aqeedi. One of them who joined ISIS came up to someone I know who already covers her head with a hijab — but not her face — and he told her to put on a burqa and cover everything. He told her, ‘If you don’t wear a burqa, I will make sure one of the rural women, who people like you ridiculed your whole life, will come and give you a beating.’ ” This was about who has power — radical Islam was just the cover.
“你会发现，这些（来自泰勒阿费尔的）男孩吸烟、喝酒，还纹身，”阿奎迪说。其中有一个加入了ISIS的男孩曾经找到一个我认识的人，让她穿上罩袍，把全身都遮起来——她平常已经在戴头巾，但没有蒙面纱。他对她说，‘如果你不穿罩袍，我会让一个你这种人从来都瞧不起的农村妇女来揍你一顿，’”真正的问题是谁说了算——极端伊斯兰主义只是借口。
“People are attracted to moderate religion because they are moderates to begin with,” argues Hamidaddin. “People are attracted to extreme black-and-white religious ideologies” because the warped social and economic context they live in produces an attraction to holistic black-and-white solutions.” (It is one reason Pakistani Muslims tend to be more radical than Indian Muslims.)
“有些人会被温和宗派吸引，是因为他们本来就是温和的人，”哈米达丁说。“有些人被极端的绝对化的宗教思想吸引，是因为他们所处的扭曲的社会经济环境催生了对绝对化的解决方案的好感。”（这也是巴基斯坦穆斯林往往比印度穆斯林更加激进的原因之一。）
Yes, religious reform would help, added Hamidaddin. But “it was the complete deterioration of the economic, security and political situation [in Iraq and Syria] that demanded a clear black-and-white interpretation of the world. It takes the right [government] policies to counteract that.”
是的，宗教改革会有所助益，哈米达丁接着说。然而，“正是[伊拉克和叙利亚的]经济、安全和政治形势的全面恶化，才要求必须对世界进行明确的非黑即白的解读。要应对这一状况，需要正确的[政府]政策。”
Maqsoud Kruse runs the Hedayah International Center to counter violent extremism, which is hosted by the United Arab Emirates. He’s concluded that beating back “ISIS-ism” will require a long-term investment to empower and educate Arab citizens to compete and thrive in modernity. Only people here can do that because it’s a challenge of governing, educating and parenting.
马克苏德·克鲁泽(Maqsoud Kruse)是反暴力极端主义的希达亚国际中心(Hedayah International Center)的负责人，该组织总部设在阿联酋。他认为，击退“ISIS主义”将需要长期的投资，教育阿拉伯世界的公民，让他们拥有在现代社会中竞争和良好发展的能力。只有当地民众才能做到这一点，因为这是政府治理、学校教育和父母教育的共同挑战。