SHARIYA CAMP, Iraq — The 16-year-old lies on her side on a mattress on the floor, unable to hold up her head. Her uncle props her up to drink water, but she can barely swallow. Her voice is so weak, he places his ear directly over her mouth to hear her.
伊拉克沙里亚——这位16岁的少女侧卧在就地放置的床垫上，无法抬头。叔叔扶她起来喝水，但她几乎无法下咽。她的声音很微弱，叔叔直接把耳朵凑在她嘴边，才能听到她的声音。
The girl, Souhayla, walked out of the most destroyed section of Mosul this month, freed after three years of captivity and serial rape when her Islamic State captor was killed in an airstrike. Her uncle described her condition as “shock.” He had invited reporters to Souhayla’s bedside so they could document what the terror group’s system of sexual abuse had done to his niece.
女孩名叫苏海拉(Souhayla)，本月从摩苏尔毁损最严重的区域生还；在身陷囹圄、遭到三年持续强奸，直到囚禁她的伊斯兰国成员在空袭中丧生之后，她才获得自由。叔叔说她处在“震惊”中。他邀请记者到苏海拉的床边，记录下伊斯兰国的性虐待制度对侄女的残害。
“This is what they have done to our people,” said Khalid Taalo, her uncle.
她的叔叔哈立德·塔洛(Khalid Taalo)说：“这就是他们对我们的人做的事情。”
Since the operation to take back Mosul began last year, approximately 180 women, girls and children from the Yazidi ethnic minority who were captured in 2014 by the Islamic State, or ISIS, have been liberated, according to Iraq’s Bureau for the Rescue of Abductees.
根据伊拉克被绑架者营救局(Bureau for the Rescue of Abductees)的统计，收复摩苏尔的行动自从去年开始后， 约180名在2014年被伊斯兰国抓走的雅兹迪少数民族妇女、女孩和儿童获得了解救。
Women rescued in the first two years after ISIS overran their ancestral homeland came home with infections, broken limbs and suicidal thoughts. But now, after three years of captivity, women like Souhayla and two others seen last week by reporters, are far more damaged, displaying extraordinary signs of psychological injury.
ISIS蹂躏雅兹迪人故土后，头两年获得解救、回到家中的女性往往身体受到感染、断手断脚，心怀自杀的念头。但现在，经过三年的囚禁，记者们上周见到的苏海拉和其他两名妇女受到的伤害更大，迹象显示她们遭受了非同寻常的心理伤害。
“Very tired,” “unconscious” and “in severe shock and psychological upset” were the descriptions used by Dr. Nagham Nawzat Hasan, a Yazidi gynecologist who has treated over 1,000 of the rape victims.
“非常累”，“没有了意识”，以及“严重震惊和心理障碍”，这是治疗了1000多名强奸受害者的雅兹迪妇科医生纳加姆·纳扎特·哈桑(Nagham Nawzat Hasan)对她们的描述。
“We thought the first cases were difficult,” Hasan said. “But those after the liberation of Mosul, they are very difficult.”
“我们本以为第一批例子很惨。”哈桑说，“但收复摩苏尔之后看到的情况更惨。”
The shock expresses itself in women and girls who sleep for days on end, seemingly unable to wake up, said Hussein Qaidi, the director of the abductee rescue bureau. “Ninety percent of the women coming out are like this,” he said, for at least part of the time after their return.
被绑架者营救局局长侯赛因·加伊迪(Hussein Qaidi)表示，处在“震惊”中的妇女和女孩往往连续昏睡多日，似乎无法醒来。他说，“90%的女性被救出来后都是这样的”，至少回来后有一段时间是这样的。
Both Souhayla and her family asked that she be identified as well as photographed, in an effort to shed light on their community’s suffering. Her uncle posted her image on Facebook immediately after her release with a description of what ISIS had done to her.
苏海拉和她的家人要求记者写下她的故事，拍下照片，以便揭示雅兹迪人遭受的痛苦。她的叔叔在她获得自由后，立即在Facebook上贴了她的照片，并描述了ISIS对她的蹂躏。
For over a year, Taalo said, he had known his niece’s location, as well as the name of the Islamic State fighter holding her. He enlisted the help of a smuggler who at great risk photographed Souhayla through the window of the house where she was being held and sent the images to her family.
塔洛说，一年多前，他就已经知道了侄女的下落，还知道扣留她的伊斯兰国武装分子的名字。他向一个蛇头寻求帮助，对方冒着巨大的危险，在囚禁她的房子窗户外拍摄了苏海拉的照片，发给她的家人。
But it was too perilous to try a rescue.
但是要想救出她就太危险了。
Souhayla escaped on July 9, two days after an airstrike collapsed a wall in the building where she was being held, burying another Yazidi girl who had been held alongside her and killing the captor who had abused them, her uncle said.
她的叔叔说，一次空袭之后，关押地点的一面墙倒塌，将一名跟她一起被囚禁的雅兹迪女孩埋在了下面，同时杀死了虐待她们的人，两天后的7月9日，她逃了出来。
At that point, she was strong enough to clamber through the rubble and make her way to the first Iraqi checkpoint.
那会儿，她坚强地爬过瓦砾，走到最近的一个伊拉克关卡。
When her family drove to pick her up, she ran to embrace them.
当她的家人开车来接她的时候，她跑过去拥抱他们。
“I ran to her and she ran to me and we started crying and then we started laughing as well,” said Taalo, the brother of Souhayla’s father, who remains missing after the Islamic State took over their hometown. “We stayed like that holding each other, and we kept crying and laughing, until we fell to the ground.”
“我跑向她，她跑向我，我们开始哭起来，然后又大笑，”苏海拉的叔叔塔洛说道。她父亲在伊斯兰国占领他们的故乡后就一直处于失踪状态。“我们一直搀扶着对方，我们一直哭一直笑，直到我们跌倒在地。”
But within hours, she stopped speaking, he said.
不过，在几个小时之后，她就不能说话了，他说。
By the time they reached the camp where her mother and extended family had found refuge after the Islamic State overran their village, Souhayla slipped into what appeared to be unconsciousness. The doctors who examined her have prescribed antibiotics for a urinary tract infection. She also shows signs of malnutrition.
在伊斯兰国占领他们的村庄后，她母亲和一大家人就在一个营地避难；当他们到达这个营地时，苏海拉似乎失去了意识。给她做体检的医生开了抗生素，用来治疗她的泌尿道感染。她还有营养不良的迹象。
Neither explain her extreme symptoms, said her family and one of the doctors who examined her.
她的家人和给她做体检的其中一个医生说，这无法解释她的极端症状。
“I’m happy to be home,” she whispered with difficulty into her uncle’s ear, in response to a reporter’s question, “but I’m sick.”
“我很高兴回家了，”在回答记者的问题时，她艰难地对着叔叔的耳朵小声说道，“但我病了。”
The Islamic State had been ruling Mosul for two months in 2014 when the group’s leaders set their sights on Sinjar, a 60-mile-long, yellow massif to the north. Its foothills and mountain villages have long been the bedrock of life for the Yazidi, a tiny minority who account for less than 2 percent of Iraq’s population of 38 million.
在2014年，伊斯兰国曾统治摩苏尔两个月时间，当时这个组织的领导人将目光投向了该市以北的辛贾尔，那是一片60英里（约合97公里）长的黄色山丘。很早以前，那里的山麓丘陵和山村就是雅兹迪人生活的故土。雅兹迪是少数民族，在伊拉克3800万总人口的占比不到2%。
The centuries-old religion of the Yazidi revolves around worship of a single God, who in turn created seven sacred angels. These beliefs led the Islamic State to label the Yazidi as polytheists, a perilous category in the terrorist group’s nomenclature.
雅兹迪的的宗教有数百年历史，他们崇拜单一的神，而这位神创造了七位神圣的天使。因为这种信仰，伊斯兰国将雅兹迪人称为多神教徒，属于该恐怖主义集团规定的危险类别。
Relying on a little-known and mostly defunct corpus of Islamic law, the Islamic State argued that the minority’s religious standing rendered them eligible for enslavement.
伊斯兰国引用一个鲜为人知的、大部分已经不再使用的伊斯兰法律，称雅兹迪人的宗教信仰让他们有资格奴役这个少数民族。
On Aug. 3, 2014, convoys of fighters sped up the escarpment, fanning out across the adjoining valleys. Among the first towns they passed on their way up the mountain was Til Qasab, with its low-slung concrete buildings surrounded by plains of blond grass.
2014年8月3日，伊斯兰国武装分子成扇形跨越相邻的山谷，快速爬上陡坡。他们上山途中经过的第一批城镇包括蒂尔盖塞卜(Til Qasab)，这里一片片金色的草地包围着低矮的混凝土建筑。
That’s where Souhayla, then 13, lived.
13岁的苏海拉就住在这里。
A total of 6,470 Yazidis on the mountain were abducted, according to Iraqi officials, including Souhayla. Three years later, 3,410 remain in captivity or unaccounted for, Qaidi of the abductee rescue bureau said.
伊拉克官员说，那座山上共有6473人遭到了绑架，其中包括苏海拉。三年后，被绑架者营救局表示，其中有3410人仍然遭到囚禁，或下落不明。
Officials say recent escapees are also showing an unusual degree of indoctrination.
官员们说最近逃出来的这些人，被洗脑的程度也非同寻常。
Two Yazidi sisters, ages 20 and 26, arrived at the Hamam Ali 1 refugee camp, where they drew the attention of camp officials because they wore face-covering niqabs and refused to take them off, despite the fact that Yazidi women do not cover their faces.
两名雅兹迪姐妹，分别为20岁和26岁，她们到达哈马姆阿里(Hamam Ali)难民营后，因为戴着遮面的尼卡布面巾，并且拒绝取下，而引起了营地官员的注意；雅兹迪妇女本来并没有遮面的习惯。
They described the Islamic State fighters who raped them as their “husbands” and as “martyrs,” said Muntajab Ibraheem, a camp official and director of the Iraqi Salvation Humanitarian Organization.
营地官员、伊拉克救世人道主义组织(Iraqi Salvation Humanitarian Organization)主任蒙塔加布·易卜拉欣(Muntajab Ibraheem)说，她们把强奸自己的伊斯兰国武装分子称为“丈夫”和“烈士”。
In their arms were the three toddlers they had given birth to in captivity, the children of their rapists. But they refused to nurse them, said the smuggler sent by their family to fetch them. He and camp officials filled out paperwork so that the children could be given to the state, he said.
她们还带着被囚禁期间生下的三个幼儿，都是强奸者的孩子。家人派来带她们回家的蛇头说，她们拒绝给孩子喂奶。蛇头说，他和营地官员填写了手续表，以便把孩子们交给国家。
A video recorded on the smuggler’s phone shows what happened when the sisters saw their family for the first time after their return. Their relatives rushed to embrace the gaunt women. They cried.
蛇头用手机拍下一段视频，显示了两姐妹回来后第一次见到家人的场景。他们的亲戚跑过拥抱两个憔悴的女人。大家哭了起来。
Their mother, distraught, stepped behind the tent, trying to steady herself.
她们的母亲心烦意乱，在帐篷后面走来走去，试图稳定自己的情绪。
A day after the video was taken, reporters went to see the women, and they could no longer stand. They lay on mattresses inside the plastic walls of their tent.
这段视频拍下的一天后，记者去看望她们，这时她们已经不能再站立了。两人躺在塑料帐篷里的床垫上。
Despite the loud voices around them and the flow of visitors, despite their mother’s wail, they did not budge.
尽管她们周围闹哄哄的，探视者来来去去，母亲在一旁恸哭，她们却一动不动。
Cars pulled up outside, bringing relatives carrying pallets of orange soda. They left the tent, hands over their mouths, trying to hold back sobs.
汽车在外面停下，亲戚拿着许多橘子汽水下了车。离开帐篷的时候，他们用手捂着嘴巴，极力压抑着啜泣。
Family members said that except for a few brief moments, the women have not awakened since then, over a week ago.
家人说，自那之后，除了有时会清醒几分钟之外，她们一直处在昏睡状况，已经一个多星期了。