Safi al-Safi, an unaffiliated rebel and small-time smuggler specializing in weapons, antiquities and forged documents, sat in an open-air cafe beside the Syrian-Turkish border. He was smoking scented tobacco from a water pipe while discussing the cross-border mercury trade. ‘‘Red mercury has a red color, and there is mercury that has the color of dark blood,’’ he said. ‘‘And there is green mercury, which is used for sexual enhancement, and silver mercury is used for medical purposes. The most expensive type is called Blood of the Slaves, which is the darkest type. Magicians use it to summon jinni.’’
萨非·萨非(Safi al-Safi)是一名独立作业的反叛者，也是三流走私客，专门偷运武器、古董和假证件。他坐在叙利亚和土耳其边界的露天咖啡座，边抽着调味水烟，边讨论这桩跨国水银交易。“红水银颜色是红色，也有暗红色的，”他说，“还有绿水银，可以用来助性，银水银是医疗用途。最贵的一种叫‘奴隶之血’，是颜色最深的那种，魔术师用它来招唤精灵。”
This primer — passionate, thorough, outlandish to its core — fits a type. In meetings with smugglers in several towns along the border, red mercury inhabited the fertile mental terrain where fear and distrust of authority meet superstitious folklore. Descriptions of the material varied slightly in detail and sharply in price, and there were ample contradictions. But there was a remarkable consistency in several intricate legends and origin stories, even among people who did not know one another and who were separated by many miles.
这名入门者有热情、周密、非常古怪，是一种典型。在边界附近几座城镇的走私者聚会中，红水银占领了这群人的心灵沃土。他们心里不信任、也惧怕当局，还迷信谣言。各种对于红水银的描述在细微处有些许差异，而在价格上波动甚大，也有很多互相抵触的地方。但尽管这些人互不认识，活动范围也相去甚远，在各种错综复杂的传说和起源故事中，还是有一个值得注意的相同之处。
Another smuggler, Faysal, who said he was awaiting results of vetting by the United States government to join a Pentagon-backed force opposing the Islamic State (the program has since been dropped), continued the lesson. ‘‘It has two different types: hot and cold,’’ he said. The cold form, which other smugglers sometimes call ‘‘spiritual mercury,’’ he said, ‘‘can be found in Roman graveyards.’’ He added: ‘‘Kings and princes and sultans used to take it to the graves with them.’’
另一名走私者费萨尔(Faysal)说，他在等美国政府对自己进行背景调查的结果，看能否参加由五角大楼支持的反伊斯兰国部队（这个计划后来被撤回）。他接过了话头。“红水银有两种类型，热的跟冷的，”他说。冷的那种有时会被其他走私者称为“灵性水银”，他说，“能够在罗马人的墓地找到。”他补充道：“君王、王子、苏丹都会以它陪葬。”
This type of red mercury, the smugglers said, has been recovered by Middle Eastern grave robbers for at least several decades. ‘‘In previous generations, old women wore it in a necklace to keep the devil’s eye away,’’ Faysal said. More recently, rich men shopped for cold red mercury as either an aphrodisiac or to improve their sexual performance.
这种红水银，两名走私者表示，已经被中东盗墓者开采至少好几十年了。“前些世代，老妇人会将红水银装进项链里，驱赶恶魔之眼，”费萨尔说。最近，想购买冷红水银的有钱人若不是拿它来当春药，就是用来加强性功能。
The substance was so valuable that dishonest traders, al-Safi said, often trafficked in fake red mercury. ‘‘In my village at least 15 people trade in it,’’ he said. ‘‘They buy normal mercury, and they color it. They use red lipstick and put a little on a spoon and heat the spoon until it turns to powder, and you put the powder in the mercury, and you mix it, and it becomes that color. This is how you cheat it.’’
萨菲表示，这种物质极具价值，一些奸商经常倒卖假的红水银。“在我们村，买卖红水银的至少有15人，”他说。“他们买普通的水银，然后染色。他们在勺子上放一点口红，然后加热勺子直到口红变成粉末状，再将粉末加入水银中，混合一下，水银就变成红色的了。就是这么作假的。”
Identifying such cheats was easy, the smugglers said, because real red mercury is attracted to gold but repelled by garlic. Wise buyers bring gold and garlic to test the product before cash changes hands. ‘‘You put a drop on a plate and you approach it with garlic, and that drop is going to move away,’’ a third smuggler, Abu Zaid explained. ‘‘But if you put red mercury on a plate and move a piece of gold under the plate, the red mercury is going to move with it.’’
这两名走私者表示，很容易识破这种骗局，因为真正的红水银会与黄金相互吸引，但与大蒜相互排斥。聪明的买家在付钱交易前，会带着黄金和大蒜验货。“滴一滴红水银到盘子里，然后拿着大蒜接近它，这滴红水银会移开，”第三个走私者阿布·扎伊德(Abu Zaid)说。“但如果你滴一滴到盘子里，然后在盘子底部移动金子，红水银会跟金子一起动。”
Cold red mercury, these smugglers said, could not be used for nuclear weapons; that was the role of hot red mercury, which had a more recent origin. Only sophisticated laboratories manufactured it, and the hot red mercury available in Syria had come from the Soviet Union — usually, according to Raed, another smuggler, ‘‘in a specially maintained box with equipment and a manual and special gloves.’’
这些走私者表示，冷的红水银不能用于核武器；热的红水银才行，而这种水银的历史比较短暂。据另一名走私者拉伊德(Raed)透露，只有先进的实验室才能制造它，在叙利亚可以买到的热的红水银来自苏联——通常“放在一个专门维护的盒子里，里面还装有设备、一份说明书及专用手套。”
Abu Zaid said hot red mercury was sometimes offered for sale in Syria and could be useful for the Islamic State, which has a cadre of former Iraqi officials who would know how to harness its power. But he cautioned that buyers could easily make a grievous mistake. ‘‘It is not only about getting the red mercury,’’ he said. ‘‘The very small box needs special equipment to open it, and special reactors to work with it. If you open this box, a radius of eight kilometers around you will be destroyed.’’
阿布·扎伊德表示，热的红水银有时在叙利亚兜售，可能对伊斯兰国有用。伊斯兰国拥有由伊拉克以前的官员组成的领导层，他们知道如何利用它的威力。但他警告，买家很容易犯一个严重错误。“光获得红水银是不够的，”他说。“还需要特殊设备才能打开这个小盒子，需要特殊反应器引起反应。如果你打开盒子，方圆八公里的地方都会被摧毁。”
This was especially dangerous, because hot red mercury could also be harvested from junkyards and seamstress shops. Al-Safi described how this came to pass. To prevent the weapons-grade material from falling into the wrong hands during what he called ‘‘the American occupation’’ of the former Soviet Union, he said, Russians safeguarding the stock late in the Cold War cached tiny reservoirs of red mercury in sewing machines and radios bound for export, which were then scattered throughout the Arab world. (Another version of the same tale says that red mercury is hidden in old television sets.)
这是极其危险的，因为也可以从废物堆积场和裁缝店获得热的红水银。萨菲讲述了如何做到这一点。他表示，在“美国占领”前苏联期间，为了阻止武器级别的材料落入坏蛋之手，冷战后期保护储备的俄罗斯人将小份的红水银分藏在准备出口的缝纫机和收音机里，然后这些产品运往了阿拉伯世界的各个地方。（另一版类似的传言称红水银藏在旧电视机里。）
These rumors have been circulating for years, once driving prices for old sewing machines as high as $50,000 in Saudi Arabia, according to a 2009 Reuters report. Often the most-sought-after machines were the Singer brand — which, considering that Singer was an American manufacturer, did not quite align with the Soviet fable. No matter. Abu Omar also insisted that old sewing machines were a red-mercury source. ‘‘Specific machines,’’ he said, ‘‘with a butterfly logo on them.’’ He said he knew this from experience because the red mercury used in the jihadists’ chlorine experiment in Ras al-Ain had come from his grandmother’s machine.
这些谣言已经流传多年，根据路透社2009年的报道，此类消息一度将沙特阿拉伯地区的旧缝纫机的价格推高至5万美元。胜家(Singer)的机器通常最为抢手——鉴于这是一家美国生产商，其实并不符合这套苏联传说的逻辑。没关系。阿布·奥马尔还坚称，的确可以从旧缝纫机中取出红水银。“某些机器上，”他说，“有蝴蝶图标的那种。”他表示，这是自己的经验之谈，因为圣战分子在拉斯埃恩进行氯试验使用的红水银就是从他祖母的缝纫机中取出的。