LONDON — The Islamic State extremist group has sought to link itself to Sunday’s attack in Garland, Tex., during which two assailants shot a security guard before being killed by police officers outside an event devoted to cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad, a group that monitors extremist activity online reported on Tuesday.
伦敦——一家观察极端分子网络活动的组织周二称，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)极端组织试图表明它与周日发生在德克萨斯州加兰的袭击事件有关。事件发生在一个描绘先知穆罕默德的漫画活动的现场外，两名袭击者先是开枪打伤了一名保安，随后被警方击毙。
The Islamic State, which is waging an insurgency in Syria and Iraq, said on its official radio station Al Bayan that “two soldiers from the soldiers of the caliphate” had carried out the attack, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which quoted the Islamic State as saying that the two soldiers attacked an exhibit “holding a contest for drawings offensive to the Prophet Muhammad.”
伊斯兰国正在叙利亚和伊拉克发动叛乱。据赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)称，伊斯兰国通过官方电台Al Bayan表示，“哈里发的战士中的两人”实施了这次袭击。赛德情报援引伊斯兰国的话称，这两名士兵袭击了一场“正在举行冒犯先知穆罕默德的绘画竞赛”的展览。
The news item from the Islamic State warned that the United States would see “from the soldiers of the Islamic State what will hurt you, Allah permitting,” SITE said.
赛德情报称，来自伊斯兰国的这则消息警告说，“蒙真主应允，美国将从伊斯兰国士兵那里看到，你们会受到怎样的伤害”。
The statement provided few details, however, and it remained unclear whether the extremist group was in fact involved even indirectly in the attack or whether it was making the claim purely for propaganda value, following a pattern of trying to attract recruits by praising terrorist attacks against Western targets for which it may have provided ideological inspiration rather than weapons or training.
不过，声明没有提供多少细节。目前仍不清楚该极端组织是真的参与了袭击——哪怕是间接地参与，还是纯粹想要达到宣传目的。该组织以往也曾通过赞许针对西方目标的恐怖袭击，来吸引新成员，而它可能只是为那些袭击活动提供了意识形态上的鼓舞而不是武器或训练。
Although the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, is seen as well organized in the territory in Iraq and Syria where it has declared a caliphate, or Islamic state, there is little evidence that it has actively planned and directed attacks abroad.
尽管伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）被认为在其宣布建立哈里发国的伊拉克和叙利亚领土上组织有序，但是几乎没有证据证明它曾活跃地策划并指挥过海外的袭击活动。
“Normally, it is sufficient for a person to say they are affiliated with ISIS even if they haven’t been trained by ISIS, as it is in keeping with ISIS’ call for people to carry out attacks on the west,” said Aymenn Jawad al-Tamimi, a researcher at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, Israel, who studies the Islamic State. “It is not as if ISIS has a cell in the United States or trains people. This is not ISIS coming to America.”
“一般来说，一个人即使没有接受过伊斯兰国的训练，也完全可以说自己与它有关，因为他们的行为与伊斯兰国打击西方的呼吁是一致的，”以色列荷兹利亚跨学科中心(Interdisciplinary Center)的研究员艾曼·贾瓦德·塔米米(Aymenn Jawad al-Tamimi)说。“并不是说伊斯兰国在美国有秘密组织，或在美国训练人员。不是说伊斯兰国的势力蔓延到了美国。”塔米米主要研究伊斯兰国。
In voice recordings released online, Islamic State leaders have called on their followers to launch attacks on “infidels” wherever they may be, by running them over with cars, stabbing them or throwing them off cliffs. Most attacks associated with the group outside Islamic State territory appear to have been planned and executed at the local level with little more than inspiration provided by the organization.
在网上公布的录音中，伊斯兰国领导人号召追随者对“异教徒”发起攻击，无论他们身处何地，开车碾压、刀捅，或者将他们扔下悬崖。大多数在伊斯兰国控制区域之外开展的与该组织有关的袭击，似乎都是由当地组织策划并实施的，伊斯兰国只给他们带来一些启发。
The little information publicly available about the attackers in Texas suggests that they had been influenced by different currents of jihadist thought. A Twitter account believed to be associated with the gunmen used a profile picture of Anwar al-Awlaki, a Yemeni-American cleric who had been with Al Qaeda before he was killed in an American drone strike in Yemen in 2011.
仅有的有关德克萨斯州袭击者的公开信息显示，他们受到了不同倾向的圣战思想的影响。一个据信与枪手有关的Twitter账号用安瓦尔·奥拉基(Anwar al-Awlaki)的照片做头像。也门裔美国神职人员奥拉基是基地组织(Al Qaeda)成员，在2011年美国对也门实施的无人机袭击中丧生。
But a post from the same account pledged fealty to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the head of the Islamic State, which has broken with Al Qaeda and competes with it for prestige and recruits.
但该账号曾发帖宣称效忠伊斯兰国领导人阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)，伊斯兰国已与基地组织决裂，并与其争夺威望和新成员。
In its statement on Tuesday, the Islamic State was quoted by SITE as saying that future attacks on Americans would be “worse and more bitter.”
赛德情报在周二的声明中援引伊斯兰国的话称，未来针对美国人的攻击会“更严重，更凶狠”。
American law enforcement officials are still trying to piece together whether others were behind the attack that was carried out by two men, Elton Simpson, 30, and Nadir Hamid Soofi, 34, in Garland, a suburb of Dallas. The authorities have started to examine the backgrounds of the two men, who lived in the same apartment complex in Phoenix.
美国的执法官员仍在努力查明该袭击事件是否有其他幕后主使，30岁的艾尔顿·辛普森(Elton Simpson)和34岁的纳迪尔·哈米德·苏菲(Nadir Hamid Soofi)在达拉斯附近的加兰市发动了袭击。当局已经开始调查两人的背景，他们在菲尼克斯住在同一栋公寓大楼内。
One has been identified by the F.B.I. as a jihadist terrorism suspect who regularly attended a mosque in Phoenix. The other ran a carpet cleaning business and also attended a mosque.
联邦调查局(FBI)已经确认其中一人是圣战主义恐怖嫌疑人，他经常到菲尼克斯的一座清真寺做礼拜。另一人开了一家地毯清洗公司，也去清真寺做礼拜。
The event at which the attack took place included a contest for the best caricature of Muhammad, with a top prize of $10,000.
事发现场举行的活动中，包括一场关于先知穆罕默德的漫画比赛，比赛最高奖项的奖金为1万美元（约合6.2万元人民币）。
The Texas attack bore some resemblance to January’s attack by Islamic extremists on the offices in Paris of the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, during which 12 people, including several cartoonists, were killed after the newspaper published cartoons lampooning Muhammad. However, in the Texas shooting, only the gunmen were killed.
德克萨斯州发生的袭击，与今年1月发生在巴黎的袭击事件有些相似。当时，伊斯兰极端分子因为讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)刊登讽刺穆罕默德的漫画，而对其办公室发动袭击，导致12人死亡，其中包括几名漫画家。但在德州的袭击案件中，只有枪手身亡。
After January’s terrorist attacks in and around Paris, during which Amedy Coulibaly, a French citizen of African descent, killed four people at a kosher supermarket before he was shot to death by the police, a video made before the attack surfaced. In that video, Mr. Coulibaly declared his allegiance to the Islamic State, described his role in what he called a coordinated attack to defend Islam, and urged young people to take up the fight.
今年1月巴黎及周边地区发生恐怖袭击，非裔法国公民艾米第·古里巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)在一家犹太洁食(kosher)超市杀害4人后被警方击毙。之后，一段在袭击事件发生前拍摄的视频被公之于众。古里巴利在视频中称，自己参与了他所谓的保卫伊斯兰教的协同攻击行动，还鼓动年轻人加入斗争。
However, the extent of direct involvement by the Islamic State in the Paris attacks has not been determined. Lone-wolf individuals can declare allegiance to an extremist group such as the Islamic State, and extremist groups can exploit attacks for their propaganda value.
然而，目前还不能确定伊斯兰国在巴黎袭击事件中，直接参与的程度。独狼式的袭击者可以宣称效忠于伊斯兰国等极端组织，而极端组织也可以利用这些袭击事件进行宣传。
In the case of the Paris attacks, the two brothers who attacked Charlie Hebdo said they were followers of a rival militant group, Al Qaeda in Yemen, also known as Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Both extremist groups praised those behind the attacks.
在巴黎袭击案中，袭击《查理周报》的两兄弟称，他们效忠于一个类似的极端组织——也门基地组织，又称阿拉伯半岛基地组织。这两个极端组织都对袭击事件的责任人表达了赞赏。
The organizers of the event in Texas contend that they held the event as a celebration of free speech. Pamela Geller, an outspoken blogger who organized the event, has said that Muslims are being singled out as a special group about whom American values of freedom of speech are not being applied.
德克萨斯的活动组织者称，他们举办这次活动是为了倡导言论自由。活动组织者、直言不讳的博客作者帕梅拉·盖勒(Pamela Geller)说，穆斯林被看成了一个特殊的群体，涉及他们时，美国言论自由的价值观就不适用了。
However, pro-Muslim advocates, while strongly criticizing the violence, have denounced what they see as a provocation that offended many Muslims. In most interpretations of Islam, cartoons or visual representations of Muhammad are considered blasphemous.
不过，在强烈谴责暴力行为的同时，亲穆斯林的倡导人士也称该活动是一次挑衅行为，冒犯了许多穆斯林。在多数对伊斯兰教的阐释中，穆罕默德的漫画或视觉呈现都被认为是不敬。