LONDON — A video released online of the beheading of an American journalist, James Foley, by a masked, English-speaking militant caused outrage on Wednesday, with Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain breaking off a vacation and President Obama vowing to protect Americans everywhere.
伦敦——本周三，显示美国记者詹姆斯·福利(James Foley)被一名讲英语的蒙面武装分子斩首的网络视频引发了众怒，英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)中断了度假，奥巴马总统则誓言要保护美国人，不管他们身在何处。
The killer “appears to be a British person,” the British foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, said, and British police and security officials were trying to identify him. Experts suggested his accent made him sound like a Londoner.
凶手“似乎是个英国人”，英国外交大臣菲利普·哈蒙德(Philip Hammond)说，英国警方和安全官员正在设法查出他的底细。专家表示，从他的口音来听，他似乎是个伦敦人。
The use of a fluent English speaker to deliver a message aimed at the United States and its intervention in Iraq showed a new sophistication in propaganda and the prevalence of British fighters in ISIS and similar groups, a number British officials estimate at 500 or more, though some have returned home.
用有着一口流利英语的人来传递针对美国及其插手伊拉克事态的信息，既显示武装分子在宣传攻势上变得愈加老练，也说明ISIS及类似团体中有很多英国武装分子；据一些英国官员估计，其人数大约在500人或更多，虽然一些人已经回到英国。
“The video is significant because this is the first official threat coming from ISIS, authorized by the group, telling America and Americans, ‘Now that you’ve intervened, you’re an enemy, and we will go after you,’ ” said Peter Neumann, director of the International Center for the Study of Radicalization and a professor at King’s College, London.
“这段视频很重要，因为这是首个来自ISIS的、有ISIS授权的正式威胁，它告诉美国和美国人，‘现在你们已经插手进来，你们就是敌人了，我们会收拾你们的，’”激进化研究国际中心(International Center for the Study of Radicalization)的主任彼得·诺伊曼(Peter Neumann)说，他也是伦敦国王学院(King’s College)的教授。
“We know that ISIS holds other journalists as well as aid workers hostage” from various countries, Mr. Neumann said. Western embassies, consulates and companies in the region are under threat, he said. But there will be some individuals in the West “who are sympathetic to ISIS and see this as a green light to do something,” he suggested.
“我们知道，ISIS还把来自不同国家的其他记者和救援人员抓为人质”，纽曼说。该地区的西方大使馆、领事馆和公司处于威胁之下，他说。但西方有一些人“同情ISIS，认为这是为某些事开了绿灯，”他表示。
The precise number of hostages held by ISIS is not certain, but it includes a large number of aid workers and journalists, a few of them American and some European. As the military campaign against ISIS continues, there is also concern about the safety of these hostages.
ISIS所关押人质的确切人数还不能确定，但​​其中包括大量救援人员和记者，他们中有几个来自美国，一些人来自欧洲。随着针对ISIS的军事行动继续进行，这些人质的安全问题也很令人担忧。
Both Britain and France have said they intend to step up activities against ISIS, though not with ground troops, and that has obviously heightened concern about hostages. Yet even a limited involvement in aiding the Iraqi government in Baghdad and the Kurds in northern Iraq is not likely to escape the attention of ISIS and its fighters.
英国和法国都表示，他们虽然不会派遣地面部队，但是打算针对ISIS采取进一步行动，而这显然加剧了人们对人质状况的担忧。不过，就算参与程度有限，只为巴格达的伊拉克政府和在伊拉克北部的库尔德人提供一些协助，也不太可能不引起ISIS及其武装分子的注意。
Mr. Cameron said Sunday that Britain would send military support to forces fighting ISIS but not ground troops. He warned that not acting could allow the “terrorist movement” to “target us on the streets of Britain.”
卡梅伦上周日表示，英国将为对抗ISIS的武装力量提供军事支持，但不会派遣地面部队。他警告说，如果不采取行动，“恐怖运动”可能就会“到英国的街道上来袭击我们”。
The hostages are one concern, and Westerners joining ISIS as recruits are another. There are deep apprehensions in Britain and elsewhere in Europe that the hundreds of young Muslim citizens, reported to have joined ISIS, are prepared to commit what Mr. Cameron called on Wednesday “shocking and depraved” atrocities.
令人关注的不只是人质问题，还有西方人投奔ISIS，成为其麾下新兵的状况。据报道，来自英国和欧洲其他地方的数百名年轻穆斯林公民已经加入ISIS，准备开展卡梅伦本周三所说的“令人震惊的、卑鄙堕落的”暴行，这令人们深感忧虑。
Officials say 70 to 100 Americans are also thought to have fought with ISIS and allied groups.
官员们说，还有70到100个美国人与ISIS及其同盟团体并肩作战。
Concern is widespread that Westerners who are trained to fight in Syria and Iraq will return home and commit terrorist acts in the name of their cause, especially if they see themselves as retaliating for Western attacks on ISIS.
人们普遍担心，在叙利亚和伊拉克参战的西方人受训后会回到本国，并以他们为之奋斗的事业为名，展开恐怖活动，尤其是如果他们认为自己的行动是为了报复西方对ISIS的袭击。
According to the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, Bernard Hogan-Howe, as many as half of the 500 or so Britons who have fought in Iraq and Syria are Londoners who could return home “radicalized, militarized and potentially desensitized to violence.”
伦敦警察厅(Metropolitan Police)厅长伯纳德·霍根-豪(Bernard Hogan-Howe)称，有500名左右的英国人在伊拉克和叙利亚作战，其中可能多达一半是伦敦人，他们可能回到伦敦，这些人已经变得“激进化、军事化，对暴力麻木不仁”。
According to The Guardian, which cited a former hostage, the jihadi in the video is an Englishman who calls himself “John” and is one of three British militants thought to be the main guards of foreign hostages in Raqqa, a center of ISIS control in Syria.
《卫报》(The Guardian)援引一位前人质的话说，视频中的圣战分子是一个英格兰人，自称“约翰”(John)；有三名英国武装分子，应该是拉卡外国人质关押点的主要警卫，“约翰”就是其中之一。拉卡是ISIS在叙利亚控制的一个中心地区。
“John” is believed to be from London and was said to be the main rebel negotiator during talks this year to release 11 hostages held by ISIS. They were eventually handed to Turkish officials after ransom demands were met, the newspaper said.
“约翰”据信来自伦敦；今年在关于释放ISIS关押的11名人质的会谈中，“约翰”据说是代表反政府武装的主要谈判者。当赎金要求得到满足后，这些人质最终被移交给土耳其官员，《卫报》称。
Mr. Hammond, the foreign secretary, told the BBC that Britain would work with the United States to identify Mr. Foley’s killer and to monitor ISIS fighters. “This is something we have been tracking and dealing with for many, many months, I don’t think this video changes anything, it just heightens awareness of a situation which is very grave,” Mr. Hammond said.
英国外交大臣哈蒙德告诉BBC，英国将和美国合作，查出谁是杀害福利的凶手，并对ISIS的武装分子进行监测。“我们一直在跟踪和处理这些状况，已经有很多个月了，我不认为这个视频带来了任何改变，它无非是增进了人们对非常严重的局面的认识，”哈蒙德说。
Mr. Cameron had been taking a family vacation in Cornwall, in southwest England, and had been criticized in some newspapers for doing so while Iraq’s crisis unfolded.
卡梅伦此前携家人在英格兰西南部的康沃尔郡度假，并为此遭到一些报纸的批评，说他不该在伊拉克危机加剧的时候去度假。