The hunt for the ultimate weapon began in January 2014, when Abu Omar, a smuggler who fills shopping lists for the Islamic State, met a jihadist commander in Tal Abyad, a Syrian town near the Turkish border. The Islamic State had raised its black flag over Tal Abyad several days before, and the commander, a former cigarette vendor known as Timsah, Arabic for ‘‘crocodile,’’ was the area’s new security chief. The Crocodile had an order to place, which he said he had received from his bosses in Mosul, a city in northwestern Iraq that the Islamic State would later overrun.
终极武器的追寻之旅始于2014年1月。当时，为伊斯兰国采买物品的走私贩阿布‧奥马尔(Abu Omar)在靠近土耳其边界的叙利亚城镇泰勒艾卜耶德(Tal Abyad)遇到一名圣战指挥官。几天前，伊斯兰国才刚在泰勒艾卜耶德升起黑旗，而这位原本是香烟摊贩的指挥官，成了新的安全负责人，他名叫蒂姆萨(Timsah)，阿拉伯文意为“鳄鱼”。鳄鱼说自己需要下一份订单，是先前摩苏尔的长官交办的。摩苏尔位于伊拉克西北部，不久以后伊斯兰国就占领了该地。
Abu Omar, a Syrian whose wispy beard hinted at his jihadist sympathies, was young, wiry and adaptive. Since war erupted in Syria in 2011, he had taken many noms de guerre — including Abu Omar — and found a niche for himself as a freelance informant and trader for hire in the extremist underground. By the time he met the Crocodile, he said, he had become a valuable link in the Islamic State’s local supply chain. Working from Sanliurfa, a Turkish city north of the group’s operational hub in Raqqa, Syria, he purchased and delivered many of the common items the martial statelet required: flak jackets, walkie-talkies, mobile phones, medical instruments, satellite antennas, SIM cards and the like. Once, he said, he rounded up 1,500 silver rings with flat faces upon which the world’s most prominent terrorist organization could stamp its logo. Another time, a French jihadist hired him to find a Turkish domestic cat; Syrian cats, it seemed, were not the friendly sort.
阿布‧奥马尔是叙利亚人，脸上的落腮胡暗示了他对圣战思想的同情。他年轻、结实又灵活，自2011年叙利亚爆发战争以来，陆续用过许多假名，阿布‧奥马尔只是其中一个。他在这里为自己找了份适合的工作，为这个极端地下组织担任外聘的情报员和交易员。他说，在他遇到鳄鱼的时候，自己已经是伊斯兰国当地供应链的重要成员。他在土耳其的尚勒乌尔法(Sanliurfa)工作，位于该组织的运转中枢叙利亚拉卡(Raqqa)北边。他帮这个靠武力占地为国的组织购买、运送过许多需要的日常用品：防弹衣、对讲机、移动电话、医疗器械、卫星天线、SIM卡等。他说，有次他买了1500枚有平面的银戒指，因为这个世界上名气最大的恐怖组织想在上面打上自己的徽标。还有一次，一名法国圣战分子请他去找一种土耳其家猫，似乎叙利亚的猫不是那么好相处。
War materiel or fancy; business was business. The Islamic State had needs, it paid to have them met and moving goods across the border was not especially risky. The smugglers used the same well-established routes by which they had helped foreign fighters reach Syria for at least three years. Turkish border authorities did not have to be eluded, Abu Omar said. They had been co-opted. ‘‘It is easy,’’ he boasted. ‘‘We bought the soldiers.’’
不管是军需用品或是时髦玩意，生意总归是生意。伊斯兰国有所需，便付钱给这些人满足需求，况且在国界之间运货的风险不是特别大。这些走私贩之前将外国作战人员送到叙利亚，他们完善的路线已经使用了至少三年，而他们也用同一条路线送货。不需要躲避土耳其边防机关，阿布‧奥马尔说，他们已经被拉拢了。“很简单，”他夸耀地说，“我们买通那些士兵。”
This time, however, the Crocodile had an unusual request: The Islamic State, he said, was shopping for red mercury.
不过这次，鳄鱼的要求很不寻常：他说，伊斯兰国想购买红水银。
Abu Omar knew what this meant. Red mercury — precious and rare, exceptionally dangerous and exorbitantly expensive, its properties unmatched by any compound known to science — was the stuff of doomsday daydreams. According to well-traveled tales of its potency, when detonated in combination with conventional high explosives, red mercury could create the city-flattening blast of a nuclear bomb. In another application, a famous nuclear scientist once suggested it could be used as a component in a neutron bomb small enough to fit in a sandwich-size paper bag.
阿布‧奥马尔知道这个要求的涵义。红水银珍贵、罕有、特别危险，还贵得不可思议，红水银的特性与现在科学界所知的任何化学物质都不一样，是幻想世界末日的人梦寐以求的物质。据传红水银若与常规的高能炸药一同引爆，其威力堪比能炸平一座城市的核弹。一位著名的核能科学家曾说，红水银另一个用途是充当中子弹的成分，尺寸大概只有一个三明治牛皮纸袋那么大。
Abu Omar understood the implications. The Islamic State was seeking a weapon that could do more than strike fear in its enemies. It sought a weapon that could kill its enemies wholesale, instantly changing the character of the war. Imagine a mushroom cloud rising over the fronts of Syria and Iraq. Imagine the jihadists’ foes scattered and ruined, the caliphate expanding and secure.
阿布‧奥马尔了解这些意义。伊斯兰国想找的武器不只是想拿来制造恐惧，他们在找一种能够全面歼灭敌人的武器，这就能立刻改变战争的性质。试想叙利亚跟伊拉克的战线上方出现一朵蘑菇云，试想这些圣战者的仇敌灰飞烟灭，哈里发的国土四面延伸、安全无虞。
Imagine the price the Islamic State would pay.
试想伊斯兰国愿意付多少钱。
Abu Omar thought he might have a lead. He had a cousin in Syria who told him about red mercury that other jihadists had seized from a corrupt rebel group. Maybe he could arrange a sale. And so soon Abu Omar set out, off for the front lines outside Latakia, a Syrian government stronghold, in pursuit of the gullible man’s shortcut to a nuclear bomb.
阿布‧奥马尔心想，他有条门路。他在叙利亚有个亲戚，曾跟他说过其他圣战分子从腐败的叛乱团体中拿到红水银。或许他可以安排一场交易，所以阿布‧奥马尔很快便出发，前往叙利亚政府军的堡垒拉塔基亚(Latakia)城外的前线，寻找这种愚人才信的替代核弹的捷径。
To approach the subject of red mercury is to journey into a comic-book universe, a zone where the stubborn facts of science give way to unverifiable claims, fantasy and outright magic, and where villains pursuing the dark promise of a mysterious weapon could be rushing headlong to the end of the world. This is all the more remarkable given the broad agreement among nonproliferation specialists that red mercury, at least as a chemical compound with explosive pop, does not exist.
探究红水银的来龙去脉，仿佛是到漫画的宇宙中一游。在那里，固执的科学事实向无法证实的说辞、幻想、甚至魔法妥协，坏蛋们追求神秘武器的黑暗效力，希望能抱着它冲向前去，一举将世界毁灭。然而防止核武器扩散的专家们广泛认为，红水银并不存在，至少那种具有爆炸性威力的化合物并不存在。于是，传闻就显得更加惊人了。
Legends of red mercury’s powers began circulating by late in the Cold War. But their breakout period came after the Soviet Union’s demise, when disarray and penury settled over the Kremlin’s arms programs. As declining security fueled worries of illicit trafficking, red mercury embedded itself in the lexicon of the freewheeling black-market arms bazaar. Aided by credulous news reports, it became an arms trafficker’s marvelous elixir, a substance that could do almost anything a shady client might need: guide missiles, shield objects from radar, equip a rogue underdog state or terrorist group with weapons rivaling those of a superpower. It was priced accordingly, at hundreds of thousands of dollars a kilogram. With time, the asking price would soar.
有关红水银威力的传说自冷战后期开始出现。但在苏联解体后，传言开始喧嚣直上，那时克林姆林宫的武器项目陷入了混乱和穷困。随着安全局势恶化，人们对非法武器交易愈发担忧，于是在毫无限制的军火黑市里，“红水银”成了一个人尽皆知的词语。因为新闻报导捕风捉影，红水银成了军火贩子口中神奇的万灵丹，几乎能够完成客户所有的阴暗愿望：引导导弹、避免目标被雷达侦测、让处于劣势的疯狂国家或恐怖组织拥有能与超级大国匹敌的武器。这些想法反映在价格上，1公斤要价几百、几千美元。渐渐地，喊价还会继续水涨船高。
As often happens with durable urban legends, the red-mercury meme found just enough public support to assure an unextinguishable life. Chief among its proponents was Samuel T. Cohen, the American physicist and Manhattan Project veteran often called the father of the neutron bomb, who before his death in 2010 spoke vividly of the perils of nuclear terrorism and what he said was poor government preparation for such attacks. Cohen joined the red-mercury bandwagon as it gathered momentum in the early 1990s, staking a lonely position by asserting that the substance could be used to build nuclear weapons of exceptionally small size.
就像经久不衰的都市传说常有的事一样，红水银的传言得到了足够多的拥趸，得以一直延续下去。支持者中最重要的当属塞姆·T·科恩(Samuel T. Cohen)，人称“中子弹之父”的美国物理学家，也是参加过曼哈顿计划(Manhattan Project)的老兵。他在2010年过世前，曾生动地讲述核恐怖主义的坏处，他称政府对于核子恐怖攻击的准备不足。在1990年代初期红水银开始热门之际，科恩赶上了那波热潮，站在了与众不同的立场，断言红水银能够用来制造体积极小的核子武器。
In one edition of his autobiography, he claimed red mercury was manufactured by ‘‘mixing special nuclear materials in very small amounts into the ordinary compound and then inserting the mixture into a nuclear reactor or bombarding it with a particle-accelerator beam.’’ The result, he said, ‘‘is a remarkable nonexploding high explosive’’ that, when detonated, becomes ‘‘extremely hot, which allows pressures and temperatures to be built up that are capable of igniting the heavy hydrogen and producing a pure-fusion mini neutron bomb.’’ Here was a proliferation threat of an order never before seen.
在他自传的其中一版里，他声称红水银的制造方法是“将极少量的特殊核材料拌入一般的化合物，再将混合物注入核反应堆，或者用粒子加速器产生的粒子束冲击”。他说，其结果是一种“非爆炸性的高能爆炸物”。当引爆时，会变得“极热，产生高压、高温，进而能够点燃重氢，生产出纯氢迷你中子弹”。这就是一种前所未闻的东西，所构成的扩散威胁。
The establishment largely dismissed him. ‘‘If he did ever reveal evidence, I never saw it,’’ said Peter D. Zimmerman, a nuclear physicist who served as chief scientific adviser for the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency at the time. He added, ‘‘I would have seen it, at that point in history.’’ Jeffrey Lewis, a nonproliferation analyst at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies in Monterey, Calif., put matters less delicately, saying Cohen followed a classic formula for conspiracy theories, mixing ‘‘nonscientific mumbo jumbo’’ with allegations that governments were withholding the truth. ‘‘I could never figure out where Sam Cohen the physicist ended and Sam Cohen the polemicist began,’’ he said.
学界大多并不理会他的说法。“即使他真的曾公开过证据，我也从来没看到过，”当时担任美国军备控制和裁军署(U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency)首席科学顾问的核物理学家彼得·D·齐默尔曼(Peter D. Zimmerman)说。他还补充道，“当时那个时代，我肯定会看到的呀。”加州蒙特雷詹姆斯·马丁防扩散研究中心(James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies)的防扩散分析员杰弗里·刘易斯(Jeffrey Lewis)则直白地说，科恩是依着阴谋论的典型套路，将“非科学的话术”与政府掩盖真相的指摘混在一起。他说，“我永远都搞不明白，从什么时候开始赛姆‧科恩不再是物理学家，而是变成了一个喷子。”
Russian news organizations in the 1990s nevertheless relayed claims of red mercury’s destructive potential at face value, and foreign news outlets occasionally repeated them, boosting the material’s credibility and mystique. Britain’s Channel 4 elevated the material’s profile with two documentaries — ‘‘Trail of Red Mercury’’ and ‘‘Pocket Neutron’’ — that presented, according to their producers, ‘‘startling evidence that Russian scientists have designed a miniature neutron bomb using a mysterious compound called red mercury.’’ Cohen held a news conference after one broadcast to say it confirmed his fears.
然而，90年代的俄罗斯新闻机构信以为真，转述了红水银的破坏潜能，外国媒体偶尔也会转述这些新闻，替该物质增加可信度，红水银也变得愈发神秘。英国四频道(Channel 4)则以两部纪录片《红水银的踪迹》(Trail of Red Mercury)、《口袋中子》(Pocket Neutron)提升了红水银的存在感。纪录片的制片人表示，这两部片带来了“惊人的证据，证实了俄罗斯科学家已经用一种叫红水银的神秘化合物，设计出迷你中子弹。”在其中一部纪录片播出后，科恩开了一场记者会，向大众表示纪录片证实他的恐惧。
Outside this circle of the faithful, red mercury faced doubters. The substance was almost everything but scientifically verifiable. It was not even reasonably explicable. ‘‘Over all it doesn’t make much sense,’’ an engineer at Los Alamos National Laboratory wrote to a supervisor in 1994. It was also devilishly elusive, turning up in tales of smuggling mafias but never quite finding its way to a law-enforcement body or nuclear agency for proper frisking. When hopeful sellers were caught, substance in hand, it reliably turned out to be something else, sometimes a placebo of chuckle-worthy simplicity: ordinary mercury mixed with dye. The shadowy weaponeer’s little helper, it was the unobtainium of the post-Soviet world.
在相信红水银存在的这一圈信徒之外，有很多人表示怀疑。这种物质好像无所不能，但就是缺了科学实证，甚至都没有合理的解释。1994年，洛斯阿拉莫斯国家实验室(Los Alamos National Laboratory)的一位工程师向主管写信时说，“整体来说，似乎没什么道理”。红水银也非常难以捉摸，它出现在黑手党走私团伙的传言中，但却从来不曾在执法机构或原子能机构里验明正身。当希望出货的卖家被捕时，他们手中握有的物质却是别的东西，有时候是让人发笑的赝品：普通的水银，只不过染了色。它号称是地下核武器贩子的小帮手，仿佛是苏联解体后世界的“难得素”。
Among specialists who investigated the claims, the doubts hardened to an unequivocal verdict: Red mercury was a lure, the central prop of a confidence game designed to fleece ignorant buyers. ‘‘Take a bogus material, give it an enigmatic name, exaggerate its physical properties and intended uses, mix in some human greed and intrigue, and voilà: one half-baked scam,’’ the Department of Energy’s Critical Technologies Newsletter declared. In 1998, 15 authors from the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which helps maintain the American nuclear-weapons stockpile, published an article in The Journal of Radioanalytical and Nuclear Chemistry that called red mercury ‘‘a relatively notorious nuclear hoax.’’ In 1999, Jane’s Intelligence Review suggested that the scam’s victims may have included Osama bin Laden, whose Qaeda purchasing agents were ‘‘nuclear novices.’’ The most accommodating theory held that red mercury might have been a Soviet code name for something else — maybe lithium-6, a controlled material with an actual use in nuclear weapons — and traffickers repurposed the label for whatever nuclear detritus they were trying to move.
调查这些说辞的专家们，对涉及红水银的谜团，得出了明确的结论：红水银是一个诱饵，是一场精心设计的骗局中的核心道具，意图是欺骗无知的买家。美国能源部的《关键技术简讯》(Critical Technologies Newsletter)宣称，“以一个假物质、用上谜样的名字、夸大其物理特性和潜在用途、加上一点贪婪的人性和阴谋，然后就得出了这个：半生不熟的骗局。”劳伦斯利福摩尔国家实验室(Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory)是帮助维护美国核武库的机构， 1998年，该实验室里15位研究人员在《放射分析与核能化学期刊》(The Journal of Radioanalytical and Nuclear Chemistry)上发表了一篇文章，称红水银“是一个比较恶名昭彰的核能骗局”。1999年，《简氏情报评论》(Jane’s Intelligence Review)则称，奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)可能是骗局的受害者之一，因为其基地组织负责采购的人员都是“核能新手”。最说得通的理论是，“红水银”可能是苏联为其他东西取的代号，可能是锂6(lithium–6)，一种实际用于核武的受管控物质。但走私者将这个代号用于称呼他们想贩运的各种核能碎屑。
A true believer of the legends might interject that official skepticism in public did not preclude another discussion playing out on classified channels. But when WikiLeaks published American diplomatic cables in 2010 and 2011, snippets of the internal red-mercury dialogue were consistent with the public statements. In 2006, according to one cable, Sri Lanka notified the American Embassy in Colombo of concerns that the Tamil Tigers, a secessionist militant group, had tried to procure the substance. ‘‘Red Mercury is a well-known scam material,’’ a State Department nonproliferation official told the embassy. ‘‘There is nothing to be concerned about.’’
红水银的忠实信徒可能会插嘴说，即使官方在公开场合表示怀疑，保密渠道里未必没有讨论呀。但维基解密(WikiLeaks)于2010年和2011年公开美国外交官的通讯时，有关红水银的内部消息片段与公开的表态相符。根据一份电文，在2006年的时候，斯里兰卡通知科伦坡的美国大使馆，分裂主义武装团体泰米尔猛虎组织(Tamil Tigers)曾试图获取红水银。“众所周知，红水银是骗人的，”美国国务院防扩散官员告诉大使馆。“没有什么好担心的。”
Few people are more familiar with the lingering red-mercury assertions than Zimmerman, who later became director of the Center for Science and Security Studies at King’s College in London. For years, he canvassed his peers in nuclear-weapons and nonproliferation communities. He asked about the substance in conferences. He brought it up in one-on-one sessions with weaponeers from multiple countries and scientists from the former Communist bloc. He concluded that the substance was not just ‘‘hot air, myth, smoke and mirrors’’ but also ‘‘a con job.’’
很少有人比齐默尔曼更熟悉红水银的传说了，他之后担任了伦敦国王学院科学与安全研究中心(Center for Science and Security Studies)主任。多年来，他与核武、反扩散的同事仔细讨论过红水银，在会议里询问这种物质，与各种国家的武器专家、前共产主义阵营的科学家一对一谈话时也说起过红水银，他得到的结论是，这个物质不只是“空话、迷思、子虚乌有、镜花水月”，还是“一场骗局”。
When I called him, he laughed and referred to people convinced of its powers as ‘‘Red Mercurians.’’ Some of the stories he’d heard, he said, resembled ‘‘an old Jack Benny routine.’’ He paused to be straightforward and clear. Red mercury (or, for that matter, any mercury compound of any color), he said, had no nuclear-weapons application of any sort. The particulars of its supposed martial utility do not square with basic science. ‘‘It cannot be true,’’ he said, and spoke as if restating a longstanding challenge. ‘‘I have plenty of times staked my reputation on these statements, and no one has ever called me on it.’’
我打电话给他时，他笑着把那些相信红水银威力的人称作“红水银分子”。从他听过的一些故事中，他总结道，有点像“老掉牙的玩笑”。他停顿了一下，好说得更直接、清楚。他说，红水银——或者任何一种水银的化合物，不论是什么颜色——都无法以任何方式应用于核武器，它宣称的武器特性，跟基本的科学常识对不上。他以不容任何反驳的口气说，“这不可能是真的。不知道多少次，我以我的信誉对我说的话下赌注，但从来都没有输过。”
And yet a generation after the hype first burned bright, shopworn legends of red mercury’s powers, lodged in fringe provinces of the popular imagination, continue to surface, rekindled by shifting casts of jihadists, tomb looters, smugglers, journalists, YouTube salesmen and other wannabe profiteers. One thing about red mercury: If it’s not nuclear, it’s viral.
在红水银的话题首次发光发热经过了一代人的时间之后，沉寂已久的红水银威力在大众的想像暂居一角，但圣战分子、盗墓者、走私者、新闻工作者、在YouTube上卖东西的人、还有其他想大捞一笔的人，轮番将红水银的话题炒得更热。唯一可以确定的是，红水银就算不是核武材料，也爆红了起来。
Abu Omar had joined a long line of players. It was impossible not to wonder: Did he really believe in red mercury himself?
热炒红水银的人数不胜数，阿布·奥马尔也加入其中。这不禁让人疑惑：他自己真的相信红水银吗？