TOKYO — Japan reacted with sorrow and outrage on Sunday to the posting by the Islamic State of a video purporting to show the grisly killing of the journalist Kenji Goto, bringing an end to a hostage standoff that has horrified this usually tranquil nation.
东京——周日，日本以悲伤和愤怒回应了伊斯兰国(Islamic State)发布的一则视频。该视频宣称展示的是杀害记者后藤健二(Kenji Goto)的恐怖画面。一场震惊了这个宁静国度的人质危机就此收场。
Gripped by anger and disbelief, Japan has so far shown support for the strong line taken by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who did not meet the hostage takers’ initial demands on Jan. 20 for a $200 million ransom, pledging not to yield to terrorism. Mr. Abe strongly condemned the murder claim made in the video released early Sunday, saying Japan “will cooperate with the international community and make the terrorists pay the price.”
迄今为止，沉浸在愤怒和困惑中的日本民众展示出了对首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)采取的强硬路线的支持。他没有满足绑匪起初于1月20日提出的2亿美元（约合12.4亿元人民币）的赎金要求，并发誓不会向恐怖主义屈服。安倍晋三强烈谴责了周日早上发布的视频中宣扬的谋杀行为，称日本“将与国际社会合作，让恐怖分子付出代价。”
“I’m outraged by the despicable terrorist act, and I will never forgive the terrorists,” Mr. Abe told reporters on Sunday at the prime minister’s office in Tokyo.
“我对这种卑鄙的恐怖主义行径感到愤慨，本人永远不会宽恕这些恐怖分子，”安倍周日在东京的首相官邸对记者说。
For now, the Japanese public seems to be united in grief and a desire to show support for Mr. Abe and other leaders. However, political analysts have said that as the shock wears off, there will be more questioning of how Mr. Abe’s government handled the crisis, which began with the appearance online of a video from the militant group threatening the lives of two Japanese hostages, Mr. Goto and Haruna Yukawa. In that first video, the group called the country’s pledge of $200 million to help shore up the government of Iraq and to assist refugees in Turkey, Syria and Lebanon a “foolish decision” and called for a ransom of the same amount.
目前，日本公众似乎都陷入了悲痛之中，并且希望展示出对安倍等领导人的支持。然而，政治分析人士称，随着人们从震惊的情绪中走出来，会有更多声音质疑安倍政府处理这场危机的方式。事件始于网上的一则视频，其中显示，伊斯兰国威胁杀害日本人质汤川遥菜(Haruna Yukawa)和后藤健二。该组织在这段最初发布的视频中称，日本承诺贡献2亿美元来支持伊拉克政府及援助土耳其、叙利亚和黎巴嫩境内的难民是一个“愚蠢的决定”，并要求获得同样数额的赎金。
The group dropped the ransom demand after releasing a video online days later showing the decapitated body of Mr. Yukawa, a 42-year-old adventurer. The militants changed tack, offering to swap Mr. Goto for Sajida al-Rishawi, an Iraqi woman on death row in Jordan for a deadly bombing there 10 years ago. This seemed to offer hope that a way would be found to secure Mr. Goto’s release.
然而几天之后，该组织又在网上发布了一则视频，显示爱异想天开的42岁的汤川遥菜被斩首，并在此后放弃了赎金要求。伊斯兰国改变了策略，提出要用后藤健二交换伊拉克妇女赛义达·里沙维(Sajida al-Rishawi)。后者因为10年前在约旦参与实施了一次致使多人死亡的爆炸案而正在约旦等待执行死刑。这似乎带来了后藤健二可能获释的希望。
Those hopes came crashing down over the weekend, when another video appeared showing Mr. Goto kneeling in an orange jumpsuit in what appeared to be a dry riverbed. Next to him stood a masked militant who spoke while waving a knife, which he then apparently used to cut off Mr. Goto’s head.
周末期间，当又一段视频出现时，这些希望都破灭了。片中显示，在一片像是干涸的河床的地方，身着橙色连体服的后藤健二跪在地上。他的旁边站着一名蒙面武装分子，一边说话一边挥舞着一把小刀。他后来似乎正是用那把刀割下了后藤健二的头。
While the video had yet to be confirmed as authentic on Sunday, the top government spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said the government had no reason to believe it was not real. He said Japan had had no contact with the militants, suggesting that the nation was relying almost entirely on Jordan to handle the fate of the hostages. During the 10-day hostage standoff, Japan said it was trying to establish communication with the militants via local tribal and religious leaders, but apparently to no avail.
周日的时候，这段视频的真实性尚未得到证实，但日本政府最高发言人内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)表示，政府没有理由认为视频是假的。他透露，日本从未与这帮激进分子直接接触过。这表明该国几乎完全依靠约旦来负责人质的命运。在10天的人质危机期间，日本曾表示正在尝试通过当地的部族和宗教领袖来与激进分子建立联系，但似乎均徒劳无获。
The gruesome images helped feed an outpouring of sympathy for Mr. Goto, 47, a veteran journalist who entered Islamic State-held territory in Syria in late October in a doomed effort to rescue Mr. Yukawa, who had been captured in August, according to Mr. Goto’s mother. Local television stations showed clips from Mr. Goto’s reports out of Syria, Iraq and other conflict zones, where he often reported on the plight of children and other noncombatants.
可怕的画面引发了对后藤健二如潮的同情。47岁的他生前是一名资深记者，于去年10月末进入叙利亚境内被伊斯兰国控制的地区。据其母介绍，他是去营救去年8月被俘的汤川遥菜的。他的营救行动注定要失败。当地的电视台播放了后藤健二从叙利亚、伊拉克和其他一些冲突地带发回的报道片段。在那些地方，他报道的对象通常是以孩童为代表的平民面临的困境。
“My son’s final act was to go to Syria to help a fellow Japanese,” Mr. Goto’s mother, Junko Ishido, said Sunday. “Please understand his kindness and courage.”
“我儿子的最后决定是去叙利亚帮助一名日本同胞，”后藤健二的母亲石堂顺子(Junko Ishido)周日说。“请理解他的仁慈和勇气。”
President Obama issued a statement in which he said the United States “condemns the heinous murder” of Mr. Goto, whom he described as a courageous journalist. Bernadette Meehan, a spokeswoman for the United States National Security Council, said the American authorities were working to confirm the authenticity of the video, and called for the release of all remaining hostages.
奥巴马总统发布了一份声明，表示美国“谴责谋杀”后藤健二的“十恶不赦的行径”。他称后藤健二是一名英勇的记者。美国国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的女发言人贝尔纳黛特·米汉(Bernadette Meehan)表示，美国当局正在努力证实视频的真实性，并呼吁释放剩下的所有人质。
In a brief statement Sunday on the official Jordanian news agency, Petra, a government spokesman, Mohammad Momani, said that Jordan spared no effort to try to save the Japanese hostage’s life and was in continuous contact with the government of Japan during the negotiations.
周日，约旦官方通讯社佩特拉(Petra)发布了一则简短声明。政府发言人穆罕默德·穆曼尼(Mohammad Momani)在声明中表示，约旦已不遗余力地尝试挽救这名日本人质的生命，并在谈判期间一直与日本政府保持了联系。