The Islamic State has visibly attracted young Muslims from all over the world to its violent movement to build a caliphate in Iraq and Syria. But here’s what’s less visible — the online backlash against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS and ISIL, by young Muslims declaring their opposition to rule by Islamic law, or Shariah, and even proudly avowing their atheism. Nadia Oweidat, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, who tracks how Arab youths use the Internet, says the phenomenon “is mushrooming — the brutality of the Islamic State is exacerbating the issue and even pushing some young Muslims away from Islam.”
我们可以看到，伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）吸引了世界各地的年轻穆斯林，来加入自己那个在伊拉克和叙利亚境内创建的哈里发国的血腥运动。然而，另一种趋势也在悄然发生——年轻穆斯林在网上抵抗伊斯兰国，宣布他们反对伊斯兰教法的统治，乃至骄傲地宣称自己信奉无神论。新美国基金会(New America Foundation)的高级研究员纳迪娅·奥韦达特(Nadia Oweidat)对阿拉伯年轻人如何使用互联网进行了追踪研究。她表示，这种现象“如雨后春笋般冒了出来——伊斯兰国的残暴行径推动了这一议题，甚至正在逼得一些年轻穆斯林远离伊斯兰教。”
On Nov. 24, BBC.com published a piece on what was trending on Twitter. It began: “A growing social media conversation in Arabic is calling for the implementation of Shariah, or Islamic law, to be abandoned. Discussing religious law is a sensitive topic in many Muslim countries. But on Twitter, a hashtag which translates as ‘why we reject implementing Shariah’ has been used 5,000 times in 24 hours. The conversation is mainly taking place in Saudi Arabia and Egypt. The debate is about whether religious law is suitable for the needs of Arab countries and modern legal systems. Dr. Alyaa Gad, an Egyptian doctor living in Switzerland, started the hashtag. ‘I have nothing against religion,’ she tells BBC Trending, but says she is against ‘using it as a political system.’ ”
11月24日那天，BBC网站上发表了一篇关于Twitter上流行趋势的文章。开头这样写道：“社交媒体上阿拉伯语的讨论中，要求放弃施行伊斯兰教法的呼声越来越多。在许多穆斯林国家，谈论教法属敏感话题。不过在Twitter上，意为‘我们为何反对施行伊斯兰教法’的标签在24小时内出现了5000次。这一讨论主要出现在沙特阿拉伯和埃及，内容是教法能否满足阿拉伯国家的需求，能否与当代司法体系兼容。在瑞士生活的埃及医生阿利娅·贾德(Alyaa Gad)首先使用了这一标签。‘我对宗教没有任何意见，’她告诉BBC热点(BBC Trending)，同时表示她有意见的是‘拿它充当政治体制’。”
The BBC added that “many others joined in the conversation, using the hashtag, listing reasons why Arabs and Muslims should abandon Shariah. ‘Because there’s not a single positive example of it bringing justice and equality,’ one man tweeted. ... A Saudi woman commented: ‘By adhering to Shariah we are adhering to inhumane laws. Saudi Arabia is saturated with the blood of those executed by Sharia.’ ”
BBC接下来写道，“有许多人加入到这场对话中，使用了同样的标签，列举阿拉伯世界和穆斯林应当抛弃伊斯兰教法的理由。‘因为举不出任何一个它带来了公平与正义的例子，’一名男性在Twitter上这样写道……另一名沙特女性评论：‘遵守伊斯兰教法就是遵守不人道法。沙特阿拉伯手上沾满了被教法处决的那些人的鲜血。’”
Ismail Mohamed, an Egyptian on a mission to create freedom of conscience there, started a program called “Black Ducks” to offer a space where agnostic and atheist Arabs can speak freely about their right to choose what they believe and resist coercion and misogyny from religious authorities. He is part of a growing Arab Atheists Network. For Arab news written by Arabs that gets right in the face of autocrats and religious extremists also check out freearabs.com.
埃及人伊斯梅尔·穆罕默德(Ismail Mohamed)认为自己肩负着在当地开辟内心自由空间的使命，创建了名为“黑鸭”(Black Ducks)的栏目，让持不可知论和无神论的阿拉伯人，能有地方来自由地表达选择信仰的权利，以及反对宗教权威的胁迫和女性歧视的权利。穆罕默德属于日渐壮大的“阿拉伯无神论网络”(Arab Atheists Network)的一部分。此外，freearabs.com上也刊登着阿拉伯人自己撰写的阿拉伯世界的新闻，直接挑战当地的独裁者与宗教极端分子。
Another voice getting attention is Brother Rachid, a Moroccan who created his own YouTube network to deliver his message of tolerance and to expose examples of intolerance within his former Muslim faith community. (He told me he’s converted to Christianity, preferring its “God of love.”)
还有一个声音得到了人们的关注。他叫“拉希德弟兄”(Brother Rachid)，摩洛哥人，在Youtube上创建了自己的栏目，意在传递宽容的声音，同时揭露自己以前身处的伊斯兰教社会的不宽容之举。（他告诉我，因为更欣赏基督教的“仁爱上帝”，他已经皈依。）
In this recent segment on YouTube, which has been viewed 500,000 times, Brother Rachid addressed President Obama:
在近期的一则浏览量近50万次的Youtube视频中，拉希德弟兄向奥巴马总统发出了呼声：
“Dear Mr. President, I must tell you that you are wrong about ISIL. You said ISIL speaks for no religion. I am a former Muslim. My dad is an imam. I have spent more than 20 years studying Islam. ... I can tell you with confidence that ISIL speaks for Islam. ... ISIL’s 10,000 members are all Muslims. ... They come from different countries and have one common denominator: Islam. They are following Islam’s Prophet Muhammad in every detail. ... They have called for a caliphate, which is a central doctrine in Sunni Islam.”
“尊敬的奥巴马先生，我必须告诉你，你对ISIL的论断是错误的。你说ISIL并不代表任何宗教。我以前是穆斯林，我的父亲是伊玛目，我本人研习了20多年的伊斯兰教……我可以负责任地告诉你，ISIL代表着伊斯兰教……ISIL的1万追随者全是穆斯林……他们来自各个国家，但有一个共同点：伊斯兰教。他们事无巨细地遵照伊斯兰教先知穆罕默德的指示……他们呼吁建立哈里发国，而这正是伊斯兰教逊尼派的核心思想。”
He continued: “I ask you, Mr. President, to stop being politically correct — to call things by their names. ISIL, Al Qaeda, Boko Haram, Al Shabab in Somalia, the Taliban, and their sister brand names, are all made in Islam. Unless the Muslim world deals with Islam and separates religion from state, we will never end this cycle. ... If Islam is not the problem, then why is it there are millions of Christians in the Middle East and yet none of them has ever blown up himself to become a martyr, even though they live under the same economic and political circumstances and even worse? ... Mr. President, if you really want to fight terrorism, then fight it at the roots. How many Saudi sheikhs are preaching hatred? How many Islamic channels are indoctrinating people and teaching them violence from the Quran and the hadith? ... How many Islamic schools are producing generations of teachers and students who believe in jihad and martyrdom and fighting the infidels?”
他接下来说道：“我请求你，奥巴马先生，别再搞政治正确那一套——有什么话直说。ISIL、基地组织(Al Qaeda)、博科圣地(Boko Haram)、索马里的青年党(Al Shabab)、塔利班(Taliban)，以及他们的姐妹团体，都由伊斯兰教一手炮制。除非穆斯林世界应对伊斯兰教问题，实现政教分离，我们就永远不能打破这种循环……如果说伊斯兰教不是问题所在，那又如何解释，中东地区有数百万基督徒，却没有一个当了人肉炸弹来殉道，尽管他们生活在同样乃至更糟的政治经济环境中？……奥巴马先生，倘若你的确希望反恐，那就从根子开始反起。有多少沙特的谢赫在宣扬仇恨？有多少伊斯兰教电视频道在用《古兰经》和《圣训》对民众进行灌输，教导他们诉诸暴力？……有多少座伊斯兰教学校在生产一代又一代信奉圣战、殉教及消灭异教徒的师生？”
ISIS, by claiming to speak for all Muslims — and by promoting a puritanical form of Islam that takes present-day, Saudi-funded, madrassa indoctrination to its logical political conclusion — has blown the lid off some long simmering frustrations in the Arab Muslim world.
ISIS宣称代表全体穆斯林，宣扬一种极端严苛的伊斯兰教义，而这种伊斯兰教，是沙特资助的当今宗教学校思想灌输下的必然政治结果。它令阿拉伯穆斯林世界内一些酝酿已久的不满情绪爆发了出来。