There is a tension at the heart of President Obama’s campaign to confront the Islamic State, and it explains a lot about why he has so much trouble articulating and implementing his strategy. Quite simply, it is the tension between two vital goals — promoting the “soul-searching” that ISIS’s emergence has triggered in the Arab-Muslim world and “searching and destroying” ISIS in its strongholds in Syria and Iraq.
在奥巴马总统抗击伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS）的行动中，其核心部分存在冲突。它在很大程度上解释了，奥巴马为何在阐述并执行自己的策略上举步维艰。简而言之，就是两大关键目标之间的冲突——一方面要在阿拉伯-穆斯林世界推动由ISIS的崛起引发的“深刻反省”，另一方面又要“寻找并摧毁”ISIS在叙利亚和伊拉克的据点。
Get used to it. This tension is not going away. Obama will have to lead through it.
赶紧习惯一下。这一冲突并不会自动消失。奥巴马将必须牵头加以克服。
The good news: The rise of the Islamic State, also known and ISIS, is triggering some long overdue, brutally honest, soul-searching by Arabs and Muslims about how such a large, murderous Sunni death cult could have emerged in their midst. Look at a few samples, starting with “The Barbarians Within Our Gates,” written in Politico last week by Hisham Melhem, the Washington bureau chief of Al-Arabiya, the Arabic satellite channel.
好消息是：ISIS的兴起，正在激起阿拉伯人和穆斯林进行拖延已久的直面真相的深刻反省，思考他们当中为何会诞生一个如此庞大而嗜血的逊尼派邪恶团体。这里有几个例子，首先是阿拉伯语卫星频道阿拉伯电视台(Al-Arabiya)的华盛顿分社社长希沙姆·穆勒哈姆(Hisham Melhem)上周在《政治人》(Politico)上发表的《家门内的野蛮之徒》(The Barbarians Within Our Gates)：
“With his decision to use force against the violent extremists of the Islamic State, President Obama ... is stepping once again — and with understandably great reluctance — into the chaos of an entire civilization that has broken down. Arab civilization, such as we knew it, is all but gone. The Arab world today is more violent, unstable, fragmented and driven by extremism — the extremism of the rulers and those in opposition — than at any time since the collapse of the Ottoman Empire a century ago.
“奥巴马总统决定动用武力对付伊斯兰国的残暴极端分子，他……这是再次涉足——尽管带着可以理解的极大的不情愿——文明整体崩溃的乱局。阿拉伯文明，或者说是我们理解的那种文明，已几近消失。今天的阿拉伯世界，其暴力、动荡、分崩离析及受极端主义——统治者及其反对者均秉持的极端主义——支配的程度，甚于一个世纪前奥斯曼帝国终结以来的任何时期。”
“Every hope of modern Arab history has been betrayed,” Melhem added. “The promise of political empowerment, the return of politics, the restoration of human dignity heralded by the season of Arab uprisings in their early heydays — all has given way to civil wars, ethnic, sectarian and regional divisions and the reassertion of absolutism, both in its military and atavistic forms. ... The jihadists of the Islamic State, in other words, did not emerge from nowhere. They climbed out of a rotting, empty hulk — what was left of a broken-down civilization.”
“阿拉伯当代历史的一切希望均遭背叛，”穆勒哈姆还写道。“阿拉伯起义那一波早期的高潮，预示着政治赋权、还政于民和恢复个人尊严的希望，但这一切却通通让位于内战，族裔、宗派和地区分歧，专制通过军事和返古的形式再度大行其道……换句话说，伊斯兰国的圣战分子，并不是凭空冒出来的。他们脱胎于一具日趋腐朽的巨人空壳——一个崩坏文明的残骸。”
The liberal Saudi analyst Turki al-Hamad responded in the London-based Al-Arab newspaper to King Abdullah’s call for Saudi religious leaders to confront ISIS ideology: How can they? al-Hamad asked. They all embrace the same anti-pluralistic, puritanical Wahhabi Sunni ideology that Saudi Arabia diffused, at home and abroad, to the mosques that nurtured ISIS.
沙特阿拉伯国王阿卜杜拉(King Abdullah)呼吁本国宗教领袖抗击ISIS的意识形态。对此，该国自由派分析人士图尔基·哈马德(Turki al-Hamad)在伦敦的《阿拉伯人报》(Al-Arab)上反问：怎么可能？这些宗教领袖全都接纳的是反多元化的、严苛的瓦哈比主义逊尼派意识形态。它得到了沙特阿拉伯在海内外清真寺的推广，从而孕育了ISIS。
“They are unable to face the groups of violence, extremism and beheadings, not out of laziness or procrastination, but because all of them share in that same ideology,” al-Hamad wrote. “How can they confront an ideology that they themselves carry within them and within their mind-set?”
“他们之所以无法面对喜好暴力、极端和斩首的团伙，并不是出于懒惰或拖延，而是因为他们所有人都相信那种同样的意识形态，”哈马德写道。“对于这样一种他们自身抱有并深入到骨子里的意识形态，他们怎么可能去抗击？”
The Lebanese Shiite writer Hanin Ghaddar in an essay in August on Lebanon’s Now website wrote: “To fight the I.S. and other radical groups, and to prevent the rise of new autocratic rulers, we need to assume responsibility for the collective failures that have produced all of these awful tyrants and fanatics. Our media and education systems are liable for the monster we helped create. ... We need to teach our children how to learn from our mistakes instead of how to master the art of denial. When our educators and journalists start to understand the significance of individual rights, and admit that we have failed to be citizens, then we can start hoping for freedom, even if it is achieved slowly.”
黎巴嫩什叶派作家哈宁·加达尔(Hanin Ghaddar)于今年8月在“现在的黎巴嫩”(Now Lebanon)网站发表文章称，“要想打击IS等激进组织并阻止新独裁统治者的崛起，我们需要为共同的失败承担责任。这种失败造成了邪恶暴君及狂热分子的横行。我们的媒体及教育系统促使我们在一定程度上创造了这个恶魔……我们需要教后代如何从错误中汲取教训，而不是如何掌握否认的艺术。当我们的教育工作者和记者开始理解个人权利的重要性，并且承认我们未能做好公民的时候，我们才可能开始希望获得自由，即便这个过程很漫长。”
Nurturing this soul-searching is a vital — and smart — part of the Obama strategy. In committing America to an air-campaign-only against ISIS targets in Syria and Iraq, Obama has declared that the ground war will have to be fought by Arabs and Muslims, not just because this is their war and they should take the brunt of the casualties, but because the very act of their organizing themselves across Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish lines — the very act of overcoming their debilitating sectarian and political differences that would be required to defeat ISIS on the ground — is the necessary ingredient for creating any kind of decent, consensual government that could replace ISIS in any self-sustaining way.
培养这种深刻反省的意识是奥巴马策略中的关键部分，也是明智之举。奥巴马承诺美国只会对叙利亚及伊拉克境内的ISIS目标开展空袭，等于是宣称地面战争必须由阿拉伯人和穆斯林开展。不仅仅因为这是他们的战争，他们应该首当其中承担伤亡，而且因为，要想创建任何能够取代ISIS并依靠自己持续下去的体面的团结政府，就必须跨越什叶派、逊尼派及库尔德人的界限，进行自发组织——而若要在地面击败ISIS，就必须克服拖后腿的宗派与政治分歧，跨越这一界限。
The tension arises because ISIS is a killing machine, and it will take another killing machine to search it out and destroy it on the ground. There is no way the “moderate” Syrians we’re training can alone fight ISIS and the Syrian regime at the same time. Iraqis, Turkey and the nearby Arab states will have to also field troops.
两个目标会发生矛盾，是因为ISIS是一台杀人机器。找到并通过地面战争摧毁它，需要另一台杀人机器。然而，我们训练的“温和”叙利亚反对派绝不可能同时独自对抗ISIS和叙利亚政权。伊拉克、土耳其及附近的阿拉伯国家也必须派遣部队。