If all of this seems like a bad and ever-expanding joke, it can work that way. When I mentioned the garlic-and-gold tests and red mercury’s supposed qualities as a sexual stimulant to Peter Zimmerman, the nuclear physicist, his answer came quickly. ‘‘Take that with a grain of red mercury,’’ he said.
如果说这整件事看起来像是一个越开越大的糟糕玩笑，就当它是玩笑吧。当我向核物理学家彼得·齐默尔曼(Peter Zimmerman)提起大蒜–黄金的检验方法及红水银所谓激发性欲的功效时，他很快给出了回答。他说，“用的时候可只能用一点。”
Jokes may be as useful a means as any of understanding red mercury, considering another origin theory that has made the rounds for years: that the hoax has roots in an intelligence-service put-on, a disinformation campaign of phony news articles planted decades ago in Russian newspapers by the K.G.B. and one of its successors, the F.S.B.
考虑到另一种流传多年的关于红水银起源的说法，笑话对于理解它，或许像其他理论一样有用。那种说法称，红水银是源于情报机构的骗局，克格勃(KGB)及其后继机构之一联邦安全局(FSB)，在几十年前开展了虚假情报战，利用俄罗斯报纸发表虚构的新闻文章。
There are other variants of this story, including one in which Washington and Moscow collaborated in circulating red-mercury stories to flush out nuclear smugglers and to waste terrorists’ time. American soldiers and officers in bomb-disposal and counter-W.M.D. jobs shared that version with me, although, once again, no one had evidence for its veracity. It was something that they had heard on their jobs and a story they admitted that they liked — the thinking being that if the Four Lions wanted to shop for photon torpedoes, let them shop; that would be preferable to how the Islamic State otherwise spends its time. (Abu Omar, for example, said the Islamic State had also sought his help in abducting Western journalists.)
这个故事还有其他版本，比如称华盛顿和莫斯科联手传播红水银的故事，以暴露核武走私者，浪费恐怖分子的时间。虽然负责拆弹及遏制大规模杀伤性武器的美国士兵及军官向我讲述了这个版本的故事，但话又说回来，没有证据表明其真实性。这不过是他们在工作中听到的故事，他们也承认喜欢这个版本。其中的想法就是，如果“四头狮子”（Four Lions，典出同名英国讽刺电影——译注）想要购买“光子鱼雷”，就让他们买吧；伊斯兰国做这些事，比花时间做别的事更好。（例如，阿布·奥马尔表示，伊斯兰国还请他帮忙绑架西方记者。）
And yet the U.S. military and its allies, too, had found themselves expending resources on the hoax. In early 2011, a European military unit in Afghanistan handed over supposed red mercury to their American colleagues at Task Force Paladin, the command charged with countering and analyzing improvised bombs. The handoff triggered an international counterproliferation response, according to several American soldiers familiar with the events and an officer who participated in the operation but requested anonymity because parts of it remain classified.
但美军及其盟友发现，自己也因为这个骗局耗费了很多资源。在2011年初，一支驻阿富汗的欧洲部队将所谓的红水银交给了帕拉丁特遣部队(Task Force Paladin)的美国同事，该部队负责反制并分解自制炸弹。据几名知情的美国士兵及一名参与行动的军官透露，这一举动引发了一场国际联手的反核扩散行动。由于部分信息仍属保密，这名军官要求匿名。
Task Force Paladin alerted the 20th Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, Explosives Command, the primary U.S. Army unit trained to eliminate threats of W.M.D., that they had an unknown substance that could be dangerous material. Back at the command’s headquarters in Maryland, teams of specialists in nuclear disablement and chemical response were packed into a C-5 military-transport jet and rushed to Bagram Air Base, where they were shown two small, lead-lined containers. One was about the dimensions of a quart-size Mason jar; the other roughly the size of a pint glass.
帕拉丁特遣部队向第20司令部，即化学、生物、放射性、核或常规高爆物司令部(20th Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, Explosives Command)发出警报，称他们有一种可能是危险材料的不明物质。第20司令部是美国陆军经过专门训练，用以消除大规模杀伤性武器威胁的主要部队。在该司令部位于马里兰州的总部，负责核武去功能化和应对化学武器的几组专家，挤进了一架C–5军用运输机，赶往巴格拉姆空军基地(Bagram Air Base)。接下来，他们在那里看到了两个内部镀铅的小容器。其中一个容器与一夸脱（约0.9升）的果酱罐差不多大，另一个容器与一品脱（约470毫升）玻璃器皿一样大。
The nuclear-disablement team went first but found no sign that the containers held anything radioactive. They then passed the job to the chemical-warfare specialists and bomb-disposal techs. External tests on the containers were inconclusive, the officer involved said, so the soldiers took up the unenviable task of breaching the vessels to find out what exactly was inside. Wearing protective suits and breathing apparatuses, they put the first lead-lined container inside an airtight glove box within what the officer called a ‘‘secure, reinforced’’ shipping container, and then monitored it from afar by video as the spinning bit from a remote-controlled power drill plunged through the container’s soft wall. Out spilled ordinary mercury, the old standby of red-mercury scams. The second container was empty. In all, the officer said, the mercury amounted to ‘‘about a quarter or half cup.’’
核武去功能化小组首先出动，但没有发现显示上述容器装有任何放射性物质的迹象。他们便将工作交给了化学战专家和拆弹技术人员。参与行动的那名军官表示，对容器进行的外部测试没有定论，因此，士兵们承担起一项危险任务——弄破容器，看看里面究竟是什么。穿上防护服、戴上呼吸面罩的士兵们将第一个衬铅容器放到了这名军官所说的“安全加固的”船运集装箱中的密闭隔离箱里，然后利用遥控电钻旋转的钻头钻入容器柔软的外壳，在远处通过视频监控。结果溢出来的是普通水银——红水银骗局中老掉牙的替代品。第二个容器则是空的。这名官员表示，总共有“大约四分之一或半杯”水银。
The American soldiers quietly packed up and flew home. Their mission is memorialized in the Army’s classified records with a title — Operation Chimera — that members of the American bomb-disposal community said suggested a certain sense of humor about the whole affair. How the Europeans had been deceived is not publicly known. (One American familiar with the events said a European special-forces team had been lured into a bad buy.) On that matter, the American military declined to comment.
这些美国士兵悄悄整理行装，飞回美国。陆军的机密档案记载了这个名为“喀迈拉行动”（Operation Chimera，喀迈拉是古希腊神话中狮头羊身蛇尾的吐火女怪，意为妄想——译注)的任务。美国拆弹人员表示，这个名称透露了整件事情的滑稽之处。欧洲人如何被骗则不为人知。（一名美国知情人士表示，一支欧洲特种部队曾遭到引诱，做了一笔不合算的买卖。）关于此事，美国军方拒绝置评。
This was hardly the worst of the hoax’s real-world effects. In southern Africa, it has cost lives. According to a regional and especially cruel variation of the legend, the substance is found in conventional military munitions, particularly land mines, there to be claimed by anyone daring enough to take them apart and extract the goods. Tom Dibb, the program manager in Zimbabwe for the Halo Trust, a private mine-clearing organization, said he and the local authorities have documented people being killed in explosions while hunched over land mines or mortar bombs with hand tools.
这绝不是这场骗局给真实世界造成的最坏影响。在非洲南部，它夺走了一些人的生命。根据当地流传的一种极其残忍的说法，常规军火中有红水银，特别是在地雷里。只要足够勇敢，就能通过拆开这些军火来提取这种物质。私有排雷组织光环信托(Halo Trust)在津巴布韦的项目经理汤姆·迪布(Tom Dibb)表示，他和当地相关机构对此类事件有所记录，比如有人在弯着腰利用手工工具拆卸地雷或迫击炮时丧了命。
In the bloodiest incident, in 2013, six people were killed near Harare, Zimbabwe’s capital, by a blast in the home of a faith healer. One victim was an infant. Dibb spoke with the police and said ‘‘they were pretty convinced that it was a tank mine being taken apart for red mercury.’’ In another case, which Dibb examined himself, two men were killed and another wounded as they tried harvesting land mines for red-mercury extraction from a minefield. The most recent death that the Halo Trust investigated occurred on Nov. 1, Dibb said, when a 22-year-old man, Godknows Katchekwama, was killed while trying to dismantle and remove red mercury from an R2M2, a South African antipersonnel land mine about the size of a tuna can.
最血腥的事件发生在2013年，当时位于津巴布韦首都哈拉雷附近的一名巫医家中发生爆炸，导致六人死亡，其中包括一名婴儿。迪布与警方交谈过，说“他们非常确信，是有人在拆卸反坦克地雷以获取红水银。”在另一起迪布亲自查看过的案件中，一些人试图从布雷区获得地雷以提取红水银，结果导致两人丧生，一人受伤。迪布表示，光环信托调查的最新死亡案例发生在11月1日，当时22岁的男子格得诺斯·卡彻瓦马(Godknows Katchekwama)在试图拆卸R2M2地雷获取红水银时殒命。南非的这种杀伤人员地雷跟金枪鱼罐头一样大。
The explosion outside Harare prompted Michael P. Moore, who manages the Landmines in Africa website, to start a second site, the Campaign Against Red Mercury, which documents hoaxes and urges people not to believe them. Moore said he tried tracing how the meme leapt from sewing machines to explosive devices but could not figure it out. Public-education campaigns were needed, he said, because ‘‘it’s enough of a pervasive myth that it’s not going to go away anytime soon. And people are dying.’’
哈拉雷附近发生的爆炸促使“非洲地雷”网站(Landmines in Africa)的运营者迈克尔·P·莫勒(Michael P. Moore)创办了第二家网站“反红水银运动”(Campaign Against Red Mercury)。后者记录各种相关骗局，并呼吁人们不要相信。莫勒表示，他试图查出有关红水银来源的传说如何从缝纫机跳到了爆炸装置，但没有弄明白。他表示，需要开展公众教育宣传活动，因为“这是一个普遍流传的谣言，不会很快消散。有人因此死亡。”
The Crocodile kept inquiring about red mercury for more than a year, Abu Omar said, pressing for results. He reached out one last time on WhatsApp in June 2015. At the time, Kurds were attacking the Islamic State in Tal Abyad, and the commander also sought what he called ‘‘thermal panels’’ to deceive the weapons-guidance systems on American warplanes. But by November of this year, Abu Omar was still empty-handed. By then Tal Abyad had fallen to the Kurds, and the Crocodile had gone silent, leaving the quest without a sponsor for now.
阿布·奥马尔表示，“鳄鱼”在一年多的时间里不断询问有关红水银的交易，一直催促。他最后一次是通过WhatsApp进行联系的，那是在2015年6月。当时，库尔德人正在叙利亚城镇泰勒艾卜耶德攻击伊斯兰国，指挥官还想搞到他口中的“热板”，准备用它来骗过美国战机上的武器制导系统。但到今年11月，阿布·奥马尔仍然没有拿到红水银。此时，泰勒艾卜耶德已被库尔德人占领，鳄鱼杳无音讯，导致目前没有人资助搜寻红水银的计划。
Abu Omar had kept busy with other work; he said he had recently delivered 23 commercial drones to the jihadists. He remained a storehouse of red-mercury yarns. Word was that the Kurdish fighting groups opposing the Islamic State had been buying up the stuff. ‘‘People I know sold it to Kurds three times,’’ he said. And eight red-mercury warheads had been found in the Aleppo countryside, too. The story was similar to one from Reyhanli, another Turkish border city, where smugglers insisted that rebels in Idlib had overrun a military checkpoint and captured a few grams of red mercury. This material was said to be available for sale, although no one who said this could arrange to see it. It led to an obvious question: If Syria’s military possessed red-mercury weapons, why hadn’t it used them? Why would an imperiled force with a well-documented disregard for restraint forgo uncorking such a weapon as its garrisons fell?
阿布·奥马尔忙于其他工作；他自称最近向圣战者交付了23架商用无人机。他那里还有一大堆关于红水银的传言。比如说，反伊斯兰国的库尔德武装团体一直在试图买进这种东西。他说，“我认识的人与库尔德人做了三次买卖。”有人还在阿勒颇乡村地区发现了八枚红水银弹头。这个故事与土耳其的另一座边境城镇雷伊汉勒流传的说法类似。那里的走私者坚称，伊德利卜省的叛乱分子已经占领了一个军事检查站，并缴获了几克红水银。红水银据称是可以买到的，但这么说的人没有一个能安排查看商品。这带来了一个明显的问题：倘若叙利亚政府军拥有红水银武器，为什么不使用呢？这支处境不妙、明显不顾克制的部队在要塞失守的情况下，为何会放弃动用这种武器呢？
If red mercury seemed a perfect fit for the particular nature of this brutal, shadowy war — an apocalyptic weapon for a terrorist group driven in part by the belief that we are approaching the return of the Mahdi, the final defeat of infidels and the end of the world — it was not making itself easy to get. All this, and the police were drawing near. In June, Turkish news agencies reported another red-mercury bust, this time of a pair of Georgians. And Abu Omar said an associate of his had managed to obtain the material, only to be arrested in Ankara before he could unload it. The authorities released him but kept his red mercury, he said, for themselves. ‘‘His phone was monitored,’’ Abu Omar said, and thus the bad turn.
红水银看起来非常符合这种残忍、神秘的战争的本质，是一个可以为恐怖组织所用的末日武器，这在一定程度上是因为，恐怖分子相信我们正在迎来马赫迪的回归、异教徒的最终失败，以及世界末日。但它非常难以获得。除了前述的种种问题，警察的脚步声越来越近。今年6月，土耳其新闻机构报道了另一场因为红水银开展的逮捕行动，这次是两名格鲁吉亚人。阿布·奥马尔表示，他的一名伙伴拿到了这种材料，结果还没来得及出售，就在安卡拉被逮捕。阿布·奥马尔说，当局将他释放，但留下了他的红水银。阿布·奥马尔表示，“他的电话遭到监听，”因此发生了这种事情。
None of this was verifiable, either. The Turkish government declined to answer questions about its red-mercury arrests over the last two years. And his friend? Abu Omar said he had fled to Sweden. He provided a link to the man’s Facebook profile, but the man was not replying to requests. You can’t be too careful in the red-mercury game.
但这些说法都是无法证实的。在过去两年间，土耳其政府拒绝回答有关红水银逮捕行动的问题。他的朋友呢？阿布·奥马尔表示，他已经逃到瑞典了。他提供了一个转向该男子Facebook个人资料的链接，但该男子没有回复请求。在红水银游戏中，再怎么谨慎也不为过。