The Islamic State, which has claimed responsibility for the downing of a Russian passenger plane over the Sinai Peninsula last month, released an image that purports to show the improvised explosive device used to kill all 224 people aboard the Metrojet flight from Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt.
声称对上月在西奈半岛上空发生的俄罗斯客机坠毁事件负责的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)发布了一张照片，并表示上面显示就是他们用来炸毁客机的简易爆炸装置。这架Metrojet公司的客机从埃及沙姆沙伊赫起飞，机上224人全部遇难。
In the latest issue of Dabiq, the Islamic State’s glossy online magazine, first disseminated through Telegram, an encrypted messaging app, a picture shows what ISIS says were the components of an IED: A Gold Schweppes Pineapple tonic water can and two devices containing wires, one with a switch.
在最新一期《达比克》(Dabiq)——伊斯兰国深谙传播之道的在线杂志，通过加密即时通讯软件Telegram发布——中，有一张照片显示了一样东西。伊斯兰国称它是自制爆炸装置的一部分，包括一个怡泉牌(Schweppes)金装菠萝汤力水易拉罐，两个管线器具，其中一个带有开关。
It includes a caption that says, “EXCLUSIVE – Image of the IED used to bring down the Russian airliner.”
图片说明文字写着，“独家——用来炸毁俄罗斯大型客机的简易爆炸装置图片。”
The veracity of the claim, and whether or not the specific device shown was used in the attack, could not immediately be determined. American andRussian officials have said that the debris from the Metrojet plane suggests that there was a bomb on board.
目前还无法立刻查明该声明是否属实，也无法确定图片显示的装置是否真的被用来实施那场袭击。美国和俄罗斯官员表示，那架Metrojet飞机的残骸显示，机上的确有炸弹。
The accompanying article in the ISIS magazine says that Russia’s “arrogance” in bombing Syria prompted their operatives in the Sinai Peninsula to change their plan from blowing up a plane from one of the countries participating in the American-backed coalition against ISIS to attacking a Russian airliner.
杂志中与图片同时发布的文章称，俄罗斯轰炸叙利亚的“傲慢”行为促使他们在西奈半岛的行动人员改变了原先的计划，从炸毁美国支持的反伊斯兰国联盟中某个国家的飞机，转向袭击一架俄罗斯客机。
“It was a rash decision of arrogance from Russia,” the article says. “And so after having discovered a way to compromise the security at the Sharm el Sheikh International Airport and resolving to bring down a plane belonging to a nation in the American-led Western coalition against the Islamic State, the target was changed to a Russian plane. A bomb was smuggled onto the airplane, leading to the deaths of 219 Russians and 5 other crusaders only a month after Russia’s thoughtless decision.”
“俄罗斯所做的是一项草率而傲慢的决定，”文中讲到。“所以，在找到可以突破沙姆沙伊赫国际机场安全检查的办法，决心炸毁属于美国主导的西方反伊斯兰国联盟中的某个国家的飞机之后，又将袭击目标改为一架俄罗斯飞机。一枚炸弹被偷偷带上飞机，杀死了219名俄罗斯人和另外5名圣战者，此时距俄罗斯做出那项欠考虑的决策只有一个月。”
As for the deadly attacks in France, the ISIS magazine says that the terrorist group had not forgotten that French airstrikes against Islamic State militants began on Sept. 19, 2014, in Iraq. And the article said that the leader of the Islamic State, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi had vowed revenge.
对于法国发生的流血袭击事件，伊斯兰国的这本杂志表示，该恐怖组织没有忘记法国自2014年9月19日开始对伊拉克境内的伊斯兰国武装分子进行的空中打击。文中还称，伊斯兰国领导人阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)之前已经发誓要进行报复。
“Thus the Islamic State dispatched its brave knights to wage war,” the article says. “The eight knights brought Paris down on its knees, after years of French conceit in the face of Islam.”
“所以伊斯兰国派出勇士去发动战争，”文中写道。“多年来，法国面对伊斯兰教徒一直表现得很自负，如今八名勇士让巴黎分崩离析。”
The issue did not provide any further details in how the Paris attacks were carried out.
这期杂志没有提供有关巴黎袭击如何实施的具体细节。
The cover of the English-language magazine shows emergency workers in Paris, and the title “Just Terror.”
该英文杂志本期的封面显示的是巴黎的救援人员，标题为《恐怖至极》(Just Terror)。
The image of a soda can used in what was purported to be an explosive device recalls the sort of “liquid bomb” three British men were planning to use in 2006 to blow up flights over the Atlantic. They were convicted in 2009 of planning to drain plastic soft-drink bottles with syringes and refill them with concentrated hydrogen peroxide, a bleaching agent also used as a propellant for rockets.
用来制作据称是简易爆炸装置的易拉罐，让人想起2006年三名英国人计划用来炸毁飞越大西洋上空航班的那类“液体炸弹”。2009年，他们因计划用注射器抽空塑料软饮瓶并重新装入浓缩双氧水而获刑。双氧水是一种漂白剂，也被用作火箭推进剂。
A test conducted for the BBC in 2008 by an explosives expert showed that a soft-drink bottle filled with liquid explosives could blast a hole in the fuselage of a passenger jet, leading to depressurization of the cabin at altitude.
2008年，几名爆破专家为BBC做的一项测试显示，装满液体爆炸物的软饮瓶可以把机身炸出一个洞，导致在高空飞行的飞机舱内失压。
But the device shown in the picture circulated by ISIS does not appear to be the same sort of bomb.
不过，伊斯兰国发布的图片中显示的装置，似乎不是此类爆炸装置。
Alexander V. Bortnikov, the head of Russia’s Federal Security Service, said on Tuesday that traces of explosive material had been found in the wreckage of the Metrojet flight. Citing an unnamed security official close to the investigation, the Moscow daily Kommersant reported on Wednesday that Russian investigators theorized that the bomb might have been placed under a window seat near the back of the passenger cabin, not in the cargo hold.
俄罗斯联邦安全局局长亚历山大·V·博尔特尼科夫(Alexander V. Bortnikov)周二表示，他们在这架Metrojet公司飞机的残骸中发现了爆炸残留物。周三，莫斯科的日报《生意人报》(Kommersant)引用一位熟知这项调查的不具名安全官员的话报道，俄罗斯调查人员推测，炸弹可能被放置在客舱后部一个靠窗的座位下，而非在货舱内。