BAGHDAD — Extremist fighters from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria seized a military base in northern Syria on Sunday from forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, further solidifying control inside their self-declared Islamic state spanning the Syria-Iraq border.
巴格达——来自伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的极端主义武装分子，周日从叙利亚北部忠于巴沙尔·阿萨德总统的部队手中夺取了一个军事基地，进一步巩固了这个在跨越叙利亚和伊拉克边境地区自我宣告成立的伊斯兰国对其领土的控制。
The fall of the Tabqa air base followed the group’s seizing of two other Syrian military bases and gave it effective control of Raqqa Province, which abuts the Turkish border and whose capital city, Raqqa, has long served as the group’s de facto headquarters.
塔布卡(Tabqa)空军基地失守之前，该组织还拿下了另外两个叙利亚军事基地，使它实际上控制了拉卡省(Raqqa)，拉卡省与土耳其接壤，其省会拉卡市很久以来就是该团伙事实上的总部。
Recent military advances by ISIS in northern and eastern Syria have highlighted the lack of local military forces that can effectively battle the group, which President Obama last week called a “cancer” that must be eradicated from the Middle East.
ISIS在叙利亚北部和东部最近的军事进展突显了当地缺乏能与其有效地作战的军队，美国总统奥巴马在上周称该团伙是必须从中东铲除的“毒瘤”。
Syrian rebel groups that formed to fight Mr. Assad’s government never managed to take the air base, and while Mr. Assad’s forces have been bombing ISIS from the air and killing its fighters, they lack the ground troops necessary to challenge the group’s hold on terrain.
与阿萨德政府作战的叙利亚反政府武装从未能成功地夺取这个空军基地，尽管阿萨德的部队对ISIS进行了空中轰炸，炸死了其战士，但政府军缺乏必要的地面力量来挑战该团伙对地域的控制。
The United States began airstrikes on ISIS positions in Iraq this month, leading to some advances by Iraqi and Kurdish forces. But Mr. Obama has declined to intervene in Syria’s civil war.
美国从本月开始对ISIS在伊拉克的阵地进行空袭，使伊拉克和库尔德的部队取得了一些进展。不过，奥巴马拒绝对叙利亚内战进行干预。
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which tracks the conflict from Britain through a network of contacts inside Syria, said ISIS’ attack on Sunday was its fourth in the past week. The Syrian government had launched airstrikes on ISIS positions, but the group’s fighters managed to enter the grounds of the air base on Sunday and took it over after many of the troops inside withdrew.
叙利亚人权观察组织(Syrian Observatory for Human Rights)从英国通过一个联络网跟踪叙利亚境内的冲突，该组织表示，ISIS周日的攻击是其在过去一周中的第四次。叙利亚政府已对ISIS的阵地进行了空袭，但该团伙的战士还是在周日成功地进入了空军基地，在守卫基地的部队撤出去后接管了基地。
More than 340 ISIS fighters have been killed since the start of the offensive on Tuesday, the Observatory said, in addition to about 170 government soldiers. If confirmed, those numbers would make the battle the deadliest yet between the jihadist movement and the Syrian government.
观察组织说，自上周二的攻势开始以来，有340多名ISIS战士被打死，另有约170名政府军士兵被打死。如果这些数字得到证实的话，这将是圣战运动与叙利亚政府之间最致命的一场战斗。