AMMAN, Jordan — The Islamic State claimed to have beheaded a Japanese journalist in a video released Saturday night, the culmination of a two-week-long drama that appears to have cost the lives of two Japanese men.
约旦安曼——在一段周六晚间发布的视频中，基金组织伊斯兰国宣称将一名日本记者斩首。两周以来的人质危机暴力收场，两名日本人似乎都已遇害。
The video of the killing of the journalist, Kenji Goto, came two days after a deadline set by the extremist group expired, and the Jordanian government did not give in to its demand that a convicted would-be suicide bomber be exchanged for Mr. Goto’s life.
杀害记者后藤健二(Kenji Goto)的视频发布于伊斯兰国限定的日期过期两天后。日本政府未向该组织妥协，用一名自杀炸弹袭击未遂的罪犯交换汤川遥菜。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, reacting to the release of the video, said Sunday that Japan would not give in to terrorism. President Obama issued a statement in which he said the United States “condemns the heinous murder” of Mr. Goto, whom he described as a courageous journalist.
日本首相安倍晋三周六回应视频，说日本不会向恐怖主义屈服。奥巴马发表声明，“谴责”对后藤健二的“残忍杀害”，并说汤川遥菜是个勇敢的记者。
Left unclear by the video, which was posted on a Twitter account associated with the Islamic State’s media organization, Al Furqan, was the fate of a Jordanian pilot, whom the extremists also threatened to kill if Jordan did not release the would-be bomber, Sajida al-Rishawi. Japan had not yet authenticated the video. Jordan did not publicly comment.
视频被发布在与伊斯兰国媒体标准传媒社(Al Furqan)有关的Twitter账户上，未提及一名同样被俘的约旦飞行员的命运。伊斯兰国也威胁杀害该人，除非约旦交出实施爆炸未遂的赛义达·里沙维(Sajida al-Rishawi)。日本尚未证实视频的真实性。约旦未发表公开评论。
Jordan had agreed to release Ms. Rishawi only if the extremists provided proof that the pilot, First Lt. Moaz al-Kasasbeh, was still alive. He was shot down over Syria on Dec. 24 during airstrikes on the Islamic State.
约旦已经同意释放里沙维，但极端分子必须先证明飞行员莫阿兹·卡萨斯贝(Moaz AL-Kasasbeh)还活着。这名飞行员12月24日执行对伊斯兰国的空袭任务时在叙利亚上空被击落。
The 67-second video released Saturday showed Mr. Goto in an orange jumpsuit kneeling while a black-masked extremist, who appeared to be the man known as Jihadi John because of his British-accented English, blamed Mr. Abe for Mr. Goto’s fate.
周六的视频长67秒，片中的后藤健二穿着橘红色囚衣跪在地上，黑色面罩蒙头的极端分子称安倍应该为汤川的死负责。这名极端分子有英国口音，被认为可能是绰号“圣战约翰”的恐怖分子。
“Abe, because of your reckless decision to take part in an unwinnable war, this knife will not only slaughter Kenji, but will also carry on and cause carnage wherever your people are found,” the extremist said. “So let the nightmare for Japan begin.” He then began cutting Mr. Goto’s neck, but the screen went black, and then showed a still shot of his apparently decapitated body, hands still handcuffed behind his back, and with his severed head placed on top.
“安倍，因为你的鲁莽决定，加入一场打不赢的战争，这把刀不仅要砍死后藤，你的人不论在哪里被抓到，也都将身首异处，”这名极端分子说道。“让日本的噩梦开始吧。”接着，他就开始切割汤川的脖子，但屏幕黑了下来，随后出现一副照片，似乎是他的无头尸体，手还铐在背后，头颅摆放在上面。
Mr. Abe had promised $200 million in nonlethal aid to countries fighting the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. Speaking to reporters in Tokyo early Sunday morning, Mr. Abe said Japan would not back down from its policy.
安倍曾承诺提供2亿美元的非杀伤性物资援助给与伊斯兰国交战的国家。周日早晨，安倍对记者说，日本不会在本国政策上退缩。