BREMEN, Germany — Believing he was answering a holy call, Harry Sarfo left his home in the working-class city of Bremen last year and drove for four straight days to reach the territory controlled by the Islamic State in Syria.
德国不来梅――去年，哈利·萨弗(Harry Sarfo)相信自己在响应神圣的召唤，于是离开工业城市不来梅的家，驱车四天，来到叙利亚由伊斯兰国(Islamic State)控制的领土。
He barely had time to settle in before members of the Islamic State’s secret service, wearing masks over their faces, came to inform him and his German friend that they no longer wanted Europeans to come to Syria. Where they were really needed was back home, to help carry out the group’s plan of waging terrorism across the globe.
不等他安顿下来，伊斯兰国的特工们就出现了，他们带着面具，告诉他和他的德国朋友，他们不再希望欧洲人到叙利亚来。他们的家乡才是最需要他们的地方，他们应该回去，协助这个组织执行他们的计划，让恐怖主义遍及全球。
“He was speaking openly about the situation, saying that they have loads of people living in European countries and waiting for commands to attack the European people,” Sarfo recounted Monday, in an interview with The New York Times conducted in English inside the maximum-security prison near Bremen. “And that was before the Brussels attacks, before the Paris attacks.”
“他毫不掩饰地说起现在的局势，说他们在欧洲各国都有人马，等待接受袭击欧洲人的命令，”星期一，萨弗在不来梅附近最高安保级别的监狱中以英语接受了《纽约时报》采访。“那是布鲁塞尔袭击、巴黎恐怖袭击之前的事。”
The masked man explained that, although the group was well set up in some European countries, it needed more attackers in Germany and Britain, in particular. “They said, ‘Would you mind to go back to Germany, because that’s what we need at the moment,'” Sarfo recalled. “And they always said they wanted to have something that is occurring in the same time: They want to have loads of attacks at the same time in England and Germany and France.”
那个戴面具的男人解释说，尽管该组织在一些欧洲国家已经根基稳固，但特别是在德国和英国，他们还需要更多袭击者。“他们说，‘你们愿不愿意回到德国，因为这才是我们此刻最需要的，’”萨弗回忆。“他们总是说，他们希望搞同时行动：他们希望在英国、德国和法国有很多起袭击同时发生。”
The operatives belonged to an intelligence unit of the Islamic State known in Arabic as the Emni, which has become a combination of an internal police force and an external operations branch, dedicated to exporting terror abroad, according to thousands of pages of French, Belgian, German and Austrian intelligence and interrogation documents obtained by The Times.
时报获取了法国、比利时、德国和奥地利的数千份情报和审讯材料，这些材料显示，这些特工属于伊斯兰国的一个情报组织，阿拉伯语名为Emni。它成了内部警察力量与境外活动机构的合体，致力于向海外输出恐怖。
The Islamic State’s attacks in Paris on Nov. 13 brought global attention to the group’s external terrorism network, which began sending fighters abroad two years ago. Now, Sarfo’s account, along with those of other captured recruits, has further pulled back the curtain on the group’s machinery for projecting violence beyond its borders.
11月13日，伊斯兰国对巴黎的袭击引发了全球对该组织境外恐怖网络的关注，它从两年前就开始向海外派遣战士。如今，萨弗以及其他被捕的伊斯兰国新成员的供述进一步揭示了该组织向境外传播暴力的机制。
What they describe is a multilevel secret service under the overall command of the Islamic State’s most senior Syrian operative, spokesman and propaganda chief, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani. Below him is a tier of lieutenants empowered to plan attacks in different regions of the world, including a “secret service for European affairs,” a “secret service for Asian affairs” and a “secret service for Arab affairs,” according to Sarfo.
他们描述的是一个多层秘密特工网络，接受伊斯兰国资格最老的叙利亚干事、发言人与宣传主管阿布·穆罕默德·阿里-阿德纳尼(Abu Muhammad al-Adnani)的总体指挥。在他下面，是一批副手，被授权在世界各地策划袭击。根据萨弗的说法，他们有一个“欧洲事务特工处”，一个“亚洲事务特工处”，还有一个“阿拉伯事务特工处”。
Reinforcing the idea that the Emni is a core part of the Islamic State’s operations, the interviews and documents indicate that the unit has carte blanche to recruit and reroute operatives from all parts of the organization — from new arrivals to seasoned battlefield fighters, and from the group’s special forces and its elite commando units. Taken together, the interrogation records show that operatives are selected by nationality and grouped by language into small, discrete units whose members sometimes only meet one another on the eve of their departure abroad.
这些采访和文件进一步印证了一点：Emni是伊斯兰国活动的核心组织；并表明，这个机构有全权从组织的任何部分招募和重新派遣人员——从新人到老兵，也从该组织的特殊武装部队和精英突击队招募。把这些审讯记录汇总起来，可以看出，那些行动人员是按照国别选择的，并且根据语言分成了不相关联的小组，其成员有时只在出国前夕才会碰头。
And through the coordinating role played by al-Adnani, terror planning has gone hand-in-hand with the group’s extensive propaganda operations — including, Sarfo claimed, monthly meetings in which al-Adnani chose which grisly videos to promote based on battlefield events.
通过阿里-阿德纳尼的统筹协调，恐怖行动的策划和该组织广泛的宣传行动密切配合。萨弗说，他们每月都要开会，阿里-阿德纳尼会根据战场情况选择对外传播哪些恐怖视频。
Based on the accounts of operatives arrested so far, the Emni has become the crucial cog in the group’s terrorism machinery, and its trainees led the Paris attacks and built the suitcase bombs used in a Brussels airport terminal and subway station. Investigation records show that its foot soldiers have also been sent to Austria, Germany, Spain, Lebanon, Tunisia, Bangladesh, Indonesia and Malaysia.
根据已经抓获的特工人员的供词，Emni已经成为伊斯兰国恐怖主义机器中的一个关键零件。主导巴黎袭击事件，以及制造布鲁塞尔机场航站楼和地铁站内的手提箱炸弹的人，都是由它训练出来的。调查记录表明，它手下的小兵也被送往奥地利、德国、西班牙、黎巴嫩、突尼斯、孟加拉国、印度尼西亚和马来西亚。
With European officials stretched by a string of assaults by seemingly unconnected attackers who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, Sarfo suggested that there may be more of a link than the authorities yet know. He said he was told that undercover operatives in Europe used new converts as go-betweens, or “clean men,” who help link up people interested in carrying out attacks with operatives who can pass on instructions on everything from how to make a suicide vest to how to credit their violence to the Islamic State.
欧洲领导人被一连串看似毫无联系，但都宣誓效忠伊斯兰国的袭击者弄得疲于奔命。萨弗说，这些袭击者之间的联系可能比官方目前所掌握的要多。他说，自己被告知，欧洲有许多秘密特工使用新加入的成员作为联络人，或被称为“干净人”。他们负责让有意执行恐怖袭击的人和传达指示的人搭上线。指示包罗万象，从如何制作自杀背心，到如何表明他们的暴力活动是伊斯兰国所为。
The group has sent “hundreds of operatives” back to the European Union, with “hundreds more in Turkey alone,” according to a senior U.S. intelligence official and a senior U.S. defense official, both of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence.
这个组织派遣了“数百名特工”回到欧盟各国，“土耳其一国就还有好几百”，一位美国高级情报官员和一位美国高级国防官员说。两人都因谈话内容涉及情报而要求匿名。
Sarfo, who was recently moved out of solitary confinement at his German prison because he is no longer considered violent, agrees with that assessment. “Many of them have returned,” he said. “Hundreds, definitely.”
被关押在德国的萨弗最近被解除了单独囚禁，因为他被认为已经没有暴力倾向。他认同两位官员的估计。“很多人都回去了，”他说。“肯定有好几百。”
The first port of call for new arrivals to the Islamic State is a network of dormitories in Syria, just across the border from Turkey. There, recruits are interviewed and inventoried.
受感召的新人来到伊斯兰国，第一站就是叙利亚境内的一片宿舍，靠近土耳其边境。他们在这里接受面试，并被录入名单。
Sarfo checked all the necessary boxes, and on the third day after his arrival, the members of the Emni came to ask for him. He wanted to fight in Syria and Iraq, but the masked operatives explained that they had a vexing problem.
萨弗走完了所有程序。第三天，Emni的成员来找他。他希望在叙利亚和伊拉克参加战斗，但蒙面的特工解释说，他们有一个棘手的问题。
“They told me that there aren’t many people in Germany who are willing to do the job,” Sarfo said soon after his arrest last year, according to the transcript of his interrogation by German officials, which runs more than 500 pages. “They said they had some in the beginning. But one after another, you could say, they chickened out, because they got scared — cold feet. Same in England.”
“他们告诉我，在德国没有多少人愿意做这项工作，”萨弗说。德国官方对他的审讯记录显示，这是他去年被捕后不久所做的供述。记录长达500多页。“他们说，他们一开始有些人。但是一个个的，可以说，都退缩了，因为他们害怕了——临阵退却了。在英格兰也是如此。”
By contrast, the group had more than enough volunteers for France. “My friend asked them about France,” Sarfo said. “And they started laughing. But really serious laughing, with tears in their eyes. They said, ‘Don’t worry about France.’ ‘Mafi mushkilah’ — in Arabic, it means ‘no problem.'” That conversation took place in April 2015, seven months before the coordinated killings in Paris in November, the worst terrorist attack in Europe in over a decade.
相比之下，这个组织在法国却有足够的志愿者。“我的朋友问他们关于法国的情况，”萨弗说。“他们笑了起来。但的确是非常严肃的笑，眼睛里还含着泪。他们说，‘别操心法国’。‘Mafi mushkilah’——就是阿拉伯语‘没问题’的意思。”这番对话发生在2015年4月，七个月之后，也就是11月，巴黎发生了协同屠杀惨案，这是10多年来欧洲所遭受的最严重的恐怖袭击。
While some details of Sarfo’s account cannot be verified, his statements track with what other recruits related in their interrogations. And both prison officials and the German intelligence agents who debriefed Sarfo after his arrest said they found him credible.
萨弗的供述里有一些细节未能证实，但他的陈述同其他伊斯兰国新兵的供词是吻合的。监狱官员和他被捕后讯问过他的德国情报人员都认为他可信。
Since the rise of the Islamic State over two years ago, intelligence agencies have been collecting nuggets on the Emni. Originally, the unit was tasked with policing the Islamic State’s members, including conducting interrogations and ferreting out spies, according to interrogation records and analysts. But French members arrested in 2014 and 2015 explained that the Emni had taken on a new portfolio: projecting terror abroad.
自从伊斯兰国在两年多以前崛起后，情报机构便开始搜集关于Emni的零星情报。根据审讯记录和分析师的说法，起先，这个组织的职责是监督伊斯兰国内部成员，包括进行审讯和揪出间谍。但是2014和2015年被捕的法国伊斯兰国成员们说，Emni已经有了新任务：向海外输出恐怖。
“It’s the Emni that ensures the internal security inside Dawla” — the Arabic word for state — “and oversees external security by sending abroad people they recruited, or else sending individuals to carry out violent acts, like what happened in Tunisia inside the museum in Tunis, or else the aborted plot in Belgium,” said Nicolas Moreau, 32, a French citizen who was arrested last year after leaving the Islamic State in Syria, according to his statement to France’s domestic intelligence agency.
“Emni确保Dawla的内部安全”（dawla是阿拉伯语“国家”）“并把他们招募的人送往海外，或者派遣人员，执行暴力行动，比如突尼斯博物馆内的事件，或者在比利时临时取消的行动计划，通过这些手段保障外部安全，”32岁的法国公民尼古拉斯·莫罗(Nicolas Moreau)说。这是他对法国国内情报部门所做的供述。他在离开叙利亚伊斯兰国组织后，于去年被捕。
Moreau explained that he had run a restaurant in Raqqa, Syria, the de facto capital of the group’s territory, where he had served meals to key members of the Emni — including Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the on-the-ground commander of the Paris attacks, who was killed in a standoff with the police days later.
莫罗说，他曾在叙利亚的拉卡经营一家餐馆。拉卡是该组织控制的疆域的事实上的首都。莫罗的餐馆接待过Emni的一些重要成员，包括巴黎袭击的现场指挥阿卜德勒哈米德·阿巴奥德(Abdelhamid Abaaoud)，此人数日后在与警察的对峙中被击毙。
Other interrogations, as well as Sarfo’s account, have led investigators to conclude that the Emni also trained and dispatched the gunman who opened fire on a beach in Sousse, Tunisia, in June, and the man who prepared the Brussels airport bombs.
不仅是萨弗的叙述，其他审讯记录也让调查者推断，6月份在突尼斯苏塞海滩开枪的枪手以及准备布鲁塞尔机场炸弹的人也是Emni培训和派遣的。
Records from French, Austrian and Belgian intelligence agencies show that at least 28 operatives recruited by the Emni succeeded in deploying to countries outside of the Islamic State’s core territory, mounting both successful attacks and plots that were foiled. Officials say that dozens of other operatives have slipped through and formed sleeper cells.
法国、奥地利和比利时情报机构的记录显示，Emni招募的至少28名特工被成功部署到伊斯兰国核心区域外的国家，他们进行了一些成功的袭击，也有些计划被挫败。官员们称，另有数十名特工混进目标国家，并建立起潜伏组织。
In his own interactions with the Emni, Sarfo realized that they were preparing a global portfolio of terrorists and looking to fill holes in their international network, he said.
萨弗说，在与Emni的交往中，他发现，他们在筹建一个全球性恐怖分子网络，并努力填补网络中的漏洞。
In his briefings with the German authorities, and again in the interview this week, Sarfo raised the possibility that some of the recent attackers in Europe who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State’s leader during their assaults might have a more direct link to the group than officials believe.
在向德国官方交代情况以及在本周的采访中，萨弗提出了一种可能性：欧洲近期的恐袭制造者和伊斯兰国之间的关联可能比官员之前认为的更直接。这些袭击者都在行动中宣称效忠伊斯兰国领袖。
Sarfo explained that the Emni keeps many of its operatives underground in Europe. They act as nodes that can remotely activate potential suicide attackers who have been drawn in by propaganda. Linking them are what Sarfo called “clean men,” new converts to Islam with no established ties to radical groups.
萨弗说，Emni在欧洲安插的很多特工都是地下的。他们就像节点，能远程激活被宣传洗脑的自杀式袭击者。把他们联系起来的，是萨弗所说的“干净人”，也就是刚皈依伊斯兰教、与激进组织没有历史联系的人。
“These people are not in direct contact with these guys who are doing the attacks, because they know if these people start talking, they will get caught,” he said of the underground operatives.
“这些人与将要发动袭击的人没有直接接触，因为他们知道，如果这些人嘴不紧，他们就会被捕，”他指的是这些地下特工。
The intelligence documents and Sarfo agree that the Islamic State has made the most of its recruits’ nationalities by sending them back to plot attacks at home. Yet one important region where the Emni is not thought to have succeeded in sending trained attackers is North America, Sarfo said, recalling what the members of the branch told him.
情报文件和萨弗的供述都显示，伊斯兰国充分利用新成员的国籍，派他们回国策划袭击。但萨弗回忆说，Emni成员曾对他说，Emni在一个重要地区未能成功派遣受过培训的袭击者，那就是北美。
Though dozens of Americans have become members of the Islamic State, and some have been recruited into the external operations wing, “they know it’s hard for them to get Americans into America” once they have traveled to Syria, he said.
萨弗说，虽然已有数十名美国人成为伊斯兰国成员，有些还被招募进入境外活动组，但“他们知道”，美国人一旦去过叙利亚，就“很难再回到美国”。
“For America and Canada, it’s much easier for them to get them over the social network, because they say the Americans are dumb — they have open gun policies,” he said. “They say we can radicalize them easily, and if they have no prior record, they can buy guns, so we don’t need to have no contact man who has to provide guns for them.”
“在美国和加拿大，通过社交网络争取信徒要容易得多，因为他们说美国人很傻——他们有开放的枪支政策，”他说。“他们说，我们很容易就可以让他们变得激进，如果他们之前没有犯罪记录，就能买到枪支，所以我们不需要单线联系人给他们提供枪支。”
During his time in Syria, Sarfo was contacted by other German fighters who wanted him to be an actor in a propaganda film aimed at German speakers. They drove to Palmyra, and Sarfo was told to hold the group’s black flag and to walk again and again in front of the camera as they filmed repeated takes. Syrian captives were forced to kneel, and the other German fighters shot them, showing an interest only in the cinematic effect.
萨弗在叙利亚期间，其他德国籍的战士和他联系，想让他在面向德语观众的宣传影片中出镜。他们开车到巴尔米拉，让萨弗拿着该组织的黑色旗帜，在镜头前不停地走，他们一遍一遍地拍摄。叙利亚俘虏被逼下跪，其他德国士兵射杀他们，他们的兴趣好像只在影片效果上。
One turned to Sarfo immediately after killing a victim and asked: “How did I look like? Did I look good, the way I executed?”
其中一名士兵在射杀一名受害者之后很快转头问萨弗：“我刚才看起来怎么样？我处决的方式帅吗？”
Sarfo said he had started doubting his allegiance to ISIS during his training, after seeing how cruelly they treated those who could not keep up. Making the propaganda video provided his final disillusionment when he saw how many times they recorded each scene in the 5-minute film. Back in Germany, when he had been inspired by similar videos, he had always assumed they were real, not staged.
萨弗说，他在训练中看到他们对待落后士兵的残酷方式后，开始怀疑自己对伊斯兰国的忠诚。拍摄宣传视频时，他看到他们为了5分钟的视频无数次拍摄每一个画面时，他最终感到幻灭。他在德国被类似的视频鼓舞时，还以为它们是真实的，不是演出来的。
He began plotting his escape, which took weeks and involved sprinting and crawling in a field of mud before crossing into Turkey. He was arrested at Bremen Airport, where he landed on July 20, 2015, and he voluntarily confessed. He is now serving a three-year term on terrorism charges.
他开始计划逃跑。他用了好几个星期才逃脱，有时需要狂奔，有时在泥地里爬行。最后他到达了土耳其。2015年7月20日，他在不来梅机场落地后被捕。他自愿认罪。他因恐怖主义罪被判处三年监禁，目前正在服刑。