BAGHDAD — Breaking a seven-month occupation by the Islamic State, Iraqi troops on Monday retook most of Ramadi, the most populous city in western Iraq, overrunning a government compound held by the terrorist group at the city center and dealing a setback to its deadly hold on large parts of the country.
巴格达——伊拉克军队在周一夺回了对拉马迪大部分区域的控制权，结束了伊斯兰国对该地长达七个月的占领。政府军在市中心攻破了由该恐怖组织控制的政府大楼，并打击了伊斯兰国对伊拉克大片区域的残暴控制。拉马迪是伊拉克西部人口最多的城市。
Iraqi soldiers continued to face stiff resistance by Islamic State fighters in several pockets, and their hold on Ramadi — achieved after a week of fierce fighting with help from American fighter jets that pounded enemy positions — remained tenuous. In Washington, Pentagon officials warned that it would be premature to declare outright victory.
在一些互不相连的小块区域，伊拉克政府军仍然面临着伊斯兰国武装分子的顽强抵抗。在美军战斗机猛攻敌军阵地的支援下，政府军经过了一周才控制拉马迪，但政府军的控制尚不稳固。在华盛顿，五角大楼的官员们警告，现在宣布完全取得胜利还为时过早。
But if the government manages to hold Ramadi, it could prove pivotal to the efforts to beat back the Islamic State in Iraq and, ultimately, to reverse the group's gains in Syria as well. The Obama administration is hoping that a victory in Ramadi also could help vindicate its strategy of relying largely on air power to aid Iraqi and other partners fighting on the ground.
但如果政府军能够持续掌控拉马迪，对于击溃伊斯兰国在伊拉克的势力，以及最终扭转该组织在叙利亚的斩获，将是关键的一步。奥巴马政府认为，在拉马迪取得的胜利还能在一定程度上证明其策略的正确性，即主要依靠空军来支援伊拉克及其他在地面作战的盟友。
The Ramadi campaign was the latest in a string of defeats for the Islamic State, which has lost as much as 40 percent of the Iraqi territory it conquered last year. Iraq's prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, who announced the city's “liberation” on Twitter on Monday night, has vowed to now focus on recapturing Mosul, a larger city in the north that the Islamic State seized in 2014.
伊斯兰国最近遭遇了一系列挫败，拉马迪之战是最新一例。该组织已经丧失了去年夺取的伊拉克领土的40%。伊拉克总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)周一晚间在Twitter上宣布该市已经获得“解放”，阿巴迪宣称，目前主要将集中力量夺回摩苏尔。这座位于伊拉克北部规模更大的城市，在2014年被伊斯兰国占领。
The battle for Ramadi, which had proceeded in fits and starts since the summer, was waged partly by Sunni tribesmen whom U.S. troops had trained to fight alongside the forces of the Shiite-dominated government. If it continues, such cooperation — a delicate alliance, given Iraq's long history of sectarian violence — could help corrode the Islamic State's claim to represent all of Sunni Islam.
从夏季以来断断续续开展的拉马迪之战，在一定程度上是由逊尼派部落成员发动的。他们接受了美军的训练，与什叶派主导的政府麾下的军队并肩作战。由于伊拉克教派之间长期存在暴力冲突，这个联盟颇为微妙。但如果合作能持续下去，就有助于驳斥伊斯兰国自称能代表伊斯兰教逊尼派的说辞。
The retaking of the city center began around 8 a.m., when government tanks and bulldozers breached the walls around the local government complex. Brig. Gen. Ahmed al-Belawi, the leader of a battalion of Sunni tribal fighters, said the remaining militants either fled or were killed. State television broadcast images of soldiers raising the Iraqi flag above the compound, and singing the national anthem. The number of casualties was unclear.
夺回市中心控制权的行动始于上午8点，当时政府军的坦克和推土机推倒了当地政府大楼周围的墙壁。逊尼派部落武装的首领艾哈迈德·贝拉维准将(Brig. Gen. Ahmed al-Belawi)表示，剩下的武装分子要么逃走要么被杀了。官方电视台播放了士兵在政府大楼上高举伊拉克国旗，唱国歌的画面。伤亡人数不详。
A military spokesman, Brig. Gen. Yahya Rasool, declared the city “liberated,” but other Iraqi officials later offered more cautious assessments.
军方发言人叶海亚·拉苏尔准将(Brig. Gen. Yahya Rasool)宣布该市“获得解放”，但其他伊拉克官员后来给出了较为谨慎的评价。