When the Crocodile placed his order, Abu Omar said, the smuggler asked how much the Islamic State was willing to pay. The answer was vague. The Islamic State would pay, he said, ‘‘whatever was asked.’’ This was not the practical guidance a businessman needs. So the Crocodile sharpened the answer. Up to $4 million — and a $100,000 bonus — for each unit of red mercury matching that shown in a set of photographs he sent to Abu Omar over WhatsApp, the mobile-messaging service.
鳄鱼下单的时候，阿布·奥马尔说，走私者问伊斯兰国愿意付多少钱，得到的答案很含糊。伊斯兰国会付钱的，他说，“不管要多少。”这不是生意人要听的实际答案，所以鳄鱼给出了更具体的回答。如果与他通过WhatsApp传给阿布·奥马尔的一组图片相符，每一件红水银高达400万美元，另外还有10万美元奖金。
The images showed a pale, oblong object, roughly the length of a hot-dog bun, with a hole at each end. It bore no similarity to the red mercury that smugglers often described — a thick liquid with a brilliant metallic sheen. It appeared to be a dull piece of injection-molded plastic, like a swim-lane buoy or a children’s toy. But it had an intriguing resemblance that hinted at how the Islamic State’s interest might have been piqued: It was the exact likeness of an object that in 2013 the Cihan News Agency, one of Turkey’s largest news agencies, had called a red-mercury rocket warhead.
图片是一个灰白色的长条状物品，大概是热狗堡的长度，两边各有一个洞。这跟走私者常描述的红水银完全不一样，他们讲的是一种有一层明亮金属光泽的浓稠液体。这看起来像是一个注射制模的塑料，像是游泳池的浮具，又像小孩子的玩具。但是这也很有趣地暗示出，伊斯兰国是如何对红水银产生兴趣的：那些图片与土耳其大型通讯社世界新闻通讯社(Cihan News Agency)在2013年提到过的红水银火箭弹头非常相像。
In that case, three men were said to have been arrested near Kayseri, a city in central Turkey. Cihan’s coverage followed the familiar arc of red-mercury hype. Footage shot at night showed officials in protective suits and masks approaching a van. The news presenter reported the operation in matter-of-fact tones, noting that the seized rocket component ‘‘was examined by six different institutions, including the Turkish Atomic Energy Authority, all of which found that it contained the material red mercury. The liquid can cause large explosions and is worth $1 million per liter. Red mercury is used for intercontinental rocket systems and hydrogen bombs.’’
当时，据说有三名男子在靠近土耳其中部城市开塞利的地方被抓了起来。世界通讯社的报道，也与红水银炒作的惯常套路相似。晚上拍摄的一组镜头显示，几名身着防护服和面罩的官员走近一辆面包车。主持人以一种不带感情的语调报道了这项行动，指出被缴获的火箭零部件“由六个不同的机构进行了调查，包括土耳其原子能管理局(Turkish Atomic Energy Authority)，这些机构都发现其中包含红水银。这种液体可以造成大规模爆炸，每升价值高达100万美元。红水银被用来制造洲际火箭系统和氢弹。”
With that validation, the photographs traveled on social media, finding their way to the Islamic State and then to Abu Omar, who said he remembered something he had heard from his cousin in Syria, a fighter for Jabhat al-Nusra, the Qaeda affiliate and bitter Islamic State rival. This cousin, he said, had told him that Nusra fighters had taken red-mercury warheads from a now-defunct rebel group, Ghuraba al-Sham, which the jihadists had overpowered in 2013, executing its leaders. The warheads that the Nusra fighters confiscated, Abu Omar said, matched those in the Crocodile’s photographs.
有了这样的认可，这些照片在社交媒体上传播开来，也进入了伊斯兰国的视野，之后被阿布·奥马尔看到，后者表示他记得听自己在叙利亚的一个亲戚谈起过这个东西。那名亲戚是基地组织的分支、伊斯兰国的死敌努斯拉阵线(Jabhat al-Nusra)的成员。阿布·奥马尔说，这名亲戚告诉他，努斯拉阵线从一个现已解体的反叛组织“叙利亚外国人纵队”(Ghuraba al-Sham)那里取得了一些红水银弹头，2013年该组织被击败，其头目亦被处死。阿布·奥马尔说，努斯拉阵线的作战人员缴获的弹头，和鳄鱼提供的图片上的东西相符。
Not long after leaving Tal Abyad, Abu Omar said, he tracked down his cousin near the front lines outside Latakia to arrange a sale. The plan quickly tanked. His cousin, he said, suspected Abu Omar was shopping for the Islamic State. He refused to discuss terms. ‘‘I want you to end this talk about red mercury because I know where it is going to go,’’ Abu Omar recalled his cousin saying. ‘‘I know ISIS wants them. But we will never sell.’’
阿布·奥马尔说，离开泰勒艾卜耶德不久，他就在拉塔基亚城外，靠近前线的地方找到了那名亲戚，并安排进行一场交易。但这个计划很快失败了。他说，他的亲戚怀疑他是在给伊斯兰国买东西，于是拒绝再讨论交易条款。“我希望你不要再提有关红水银的事，因为我知道它会被弄到哪里，”阿布·奥马尔回忆他亲戚的话说。“我知道伊斯兰国想要这个。但我们永远不会卖。”
Abu Omar was describing all this in the lobby of a Turkish hotel, where he appeared one night this fall after several phone calls and chat sessions. His stories were more than far-fetched; they were confounding. Anyone with an Internet connection could quickly discover that the red-mercury meme was widely regarded as nonsense. Even a visit to Wikipedia — whose entry on the subject began, ‘‘Red mercury is a hoax substance of uncertain composition’’ — would surely be enough to raise questions for anyone disbursing Islamic State cash. I told Abu Omar that I had spoken with several nonproliferation experts, and they roundly agreed: Red mercury was a scam. Did he believe otherwise?
阿布·奥马尔在土耳其一家酒店的大堂里讲述了上述故事。在打过几次电话，在网上聊过几次后，他终于在今年秋天的一个晚上现身。他讲述的故事十分牵强，而且令人困惑。任何可以上网的人都能迅速发现，所谓红水银的说法，被广泛认为是一派胡言。任何一个在伊斯兰国负责对外付款的人，只需要查阅维基百科(Wikipedia)，就能产生足够的怀疑：相应的条目写道，“红水银是一种欺骗性物质，成分不明。”我告诉阿布·奥马尔，我曾与几名不扩散专家交谈，他们一致认为红水银是一场骗局。他竟不相信吗？
Abu Omar listened patiently. His face gave nothing away. Then he replied politely, as if addressing the uninformed. ‘‘I have seen it with my own eyes,’’ he said.
阿布·奥马尔耐心地听着，面无表情。然后他礼貌地回答，“我亲眼看见的。”口气仿佛是在给无知的人解释。
Two years before in Ras al-Ain, another Syrian border town, Abu Omar said, he was with a group of Islamic fighters that organized a test with 3.5 grams of liquid red mercury and a container of chlorine. The experiment was led by Abu Suleiman al-Kurdi, who commanded a small fighting group that has since joined the Islamic State. Al-Kurdi gathered the jihadists around his materials as the test began. ‘‘I will count to 10, and whoever stays in the room after that suffocates and dies,’’ he warned.
阿布·奥马尔透露，两年前，他和一群伊斯兰武装分子在叙利亚的另一边境城镇拉斯埃恩(Ras al-Ain)，利用3.5克红水银液体和氯做了一场试验。试验是由阿布·苏莱曼·库尔迪(Abu Suleiman al-Kurdi)组织的，他曾指挥过一个小规模的武装团体，后来加入了伊斯兰国。试验开始时，库尔迪将圣战分子召集到试验材料周围，并警告称，“我数到10，之后留在屋里的人都会窒息而死。”
The chlorine was held in a foil-lined container, Abu Omar said. As the group watched, al-Kurdi dipped a needle into the red mercury and then touched the needle to the chlorine, transferring a drop. ‘‘Everything interacted with everything,’’ Abu Omar said, and a foul vapor rose. All of the fighters were driven away, first from the room, then from the house.
阿布·奥马尔说，氯被装在内部衬有金属箔的容器里。这群人看着库尔迪将一根针浸入红水银，然后用针向氯中滴了一滴。“里面各种物质相互作用，”阿布·奥马尔形容，然后升起了一团散发恶臭的气体。所有武装分子都被这恶臭驱赶了出来，他们先是离开屋子，然后离开了房子。
The powers of red mercury, Abu Omar said, were real.
阿布·奥马尔认为，红水银的威力是真实存在的。
Almost every aspect of this story, like so many other breathless accounts of red mercury, was unverifiable. And even if something did happen in that room, the noxious vapors could have a simple explanation: Chlorine alone damages the respiratory tract and can be deadly if inhaled.
就像其他扣人心弦的红水银故事一样，这个故事的几乎每一个方面都是无法核实的。即便那间屋子里确实发生了一些事情，产生有毒气体可以也有一个非常简单的解释：氯本身就能损害呼吸道，如果吸入，可以导致人死亡。
But Abu Omar had answered the question. He stood firmly in the red-mercury camp. He was hardly alone.
但阿布·奥马尔回答了问题。他坚定地站在了相信红水银的阵营。而且他不是独自一人。