CAIRO — The Islamic State released a video on Sunday that appears to show fighters from its branches in southern and eastern Libya executing dozens of Ethiopian Christians, some by beheading and others by shooting.
开罗——周日，伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）发布了一段视频，似乎展示了该组织位于利比亚南部和东部分支的武装分子，处死数十名埃塞俄比亚基督徒的情景，有些人遭到斩首，有些则被击毙。
Prefaced by extensive speeches and interviews that appear to take place in the Islamic State’s strongholds in Syria and Iraq, the footage of the killings, if confirmed, would be the first evidence that the group’s leaders in those countries are coordinating with fighters under the group’s banner in those parts of Libya, compounding fears of its expansion across the Mediterranean.
处决视频的开头播放了长时间的演讲和采访，场景似乎是在伊斯兰国位于叙利亚和伊拉克的据点。如果处决视频得到证实，将是伊斯兰国位于叙利亚和伊拉克的领导人，与利比亚一些区域以该组织名义活动的武装分子之间开展协调的第一个证据。这将使人们愈发担心，该组织会越过地中海进一步扩张。
The Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, released a video in February that appeared to show masked fighters in its western Libyan branch, the so-called Tripolitanian province of the Islamic State, beheading a group of Egyptian Christians who had been abducted in the city of Surt. The group has now established control of Surt, and its fighters there are sporadically battling militia troops from the nearby city of Misurata.
今年2月，伊斯兰国发布了一段视频，视频内容似乎显示，它在利比亚西部的分支——所谓的伊斯兰国“的黎波里塔尼亚省”(Tripolitanian)——的蒙面武装分子，对在苏尔特绑架的埃及基督徒进行斩首的情景。该组织目前已经控制了苏尔特，其武装人员仍在与附近城市米苏拉塔的民兵组织发生零星交火。
The video released on Sunday appears to show Islamic State fighters in its “Fezzan province,” in the south, and its “Barqa province,” in the east, carrying out executions according to the group’s trademark rituals.
在周日发布的视频中，这些伊斯兰国武装分子似乎来自位于南部的“费赞省”(Fezzan)和东部的“拜尔盖省”(Barqa)，他们在按照该组织的标志性仪式执行处决。
Militants in Egypt, Algeria, Afghanistan, Nigeria and elsewhere have all pledged loyalty to the Islamic State and its self-declared caliphate, but Libya is the first country outside the group’s territory in Syria and Iraq where its core leadership has demonstrated practical communication and collaboration with its far-flung “provinces.”
埃及、阿尔及利亚、阿富汗、尼日利亚和其他地方的武装分子纷纷表示效忠伊斯兰国及其自行宣告成立的哈里发国，但利比亚是伊斯兰国在其位于叙利亚和伊拉克的领地之外，第一个核心领导层与边远的“省份”之间，表现出实际沟通和协作的地方。
If more confirmation of its authenticity emerges, the new video will upend both Western and Libyan views of the Islamic State’s presence in the country. Fighters in the three regions of Libya had previously claimed responsibility for various acts of violence carried out in the Islamic State’s name, but most analysts presumed that most of those fighters, at least the ones outside of Surt, were operating independently and using the name to capitalize on the group’s fearsome reputation.
如果有进一步证实视频真实性的信息出现，这段新视频就将改变西方和利比亚对于伊斯兰国在该国影响力的看法。利比亚这三个地区的武装分子此前就曾宣称，对以伊斯兰国的名义实施的各种暴力活动负责，但多数分析人士认为，这些武装分子中的大多数——至少苏尔特以外的那些——是在独立行动。他们借用伊斯兰国的名义，也是为了利用该组织令人生畏的名声。
Now, fighters in all three provinces appear connected enough to the core group’s leadership that they were able coordinate separate, mass executions, film them and send the footage back to Syria or Iraq for production and release.
如今，这三个省份的武装分子似乎都与核心组织的领导层保持着足够密切的联系，所以能够经过协调，分头展开大规模处决行动，并把处决过程拍摄下来，再把录像发回叙利亚或伊拉克，进行制作和发布。
During the last five minutes of the half-hour video, the footage cuts back and forth between scenes in the southern desert and a beach along the coast, at one point displaying both with a split screen. Both settings were filmed with the same sophisticated camera angles and editing that has distinguished other Islamic State films from indigenous Libyan videos.
在这则半小时长的视频里的最后5分钟，场景在南部沙漠和海岸沿线的沙滩之间来回切换，一度还以分屏的方式同时显示了两个场景。这两个场景的摄像机拍摄角度和剪辑手法同样娴熟，伊斯兰国的视频与利比亚本土制作的视频之间的差别正在于此。
Masked fighters lead a row of bound captives dressed in black into the desert and then shoot each of the prisoners in the back of the head. Another group of masked fighters leads a row of prisoners in orange jumpsuits along a beach and then beheads each of them with a long knife, placing the severed heads on the bodies lying on the sand as bloody surf washes over them.
蒙面武装分子带领一排身穿黑衣，被绑住双手的囚犯走进沙漠里，然后对每个囚犯的后脑勺开了枪。另一群蒙面武装分子，则带领一排身穿橙色连体服的囚犯沿海滩前行，然后用长刀对每个人进行斩首，再把割下来的头颅放在沙滩上摆放的尸体上面，任凭血色的海浪冲刷。
“You will not have safety even in your dreams, until you accept Islam,” declares a masked figure, speaking English with an American accent and pointing a revolver toward the camera. “To the nation of the cross: We are back again.”
“连在梦里你也得不到安全，除非你接受伊斯兰教，”一个蒙面者用带有美国口音的英语说道，同时还用一把左轮手枪指向镜头。“十字架的国度：我们回来了。”
Of all the places the militants have used the group’s name, Libya may also be uniquely vulnerable to penetration because of the collapse of any central authority since the overthrow of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi four years ago.
在武装分子以该组织的名义开展过活动的所有地方，利比亚可能也是极容易受到渗透的一个。因为四年前穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)被推翻以来，任何一个中央政府都会崩溃。
Over the last nine months, its feuding militias and city-states have split into two main warring factions — one controls the capital, Tripoli, and the other including the internationally recognized government has fled to the eastern cities of Tobruk and Bayda. Both factions have so far appeared more concerned with fighting each other than uniting to stop the Islamic State’s expansion.
过去9个月，利比亚长期不和的武装组织和各自为政的城市，已经分裂为两个主要派别——其中一个控制着首都的黎波里，另一个派别则逃到了东部城市图卜鲁格和贝达，国际社会承认的政府属于后者。目前，这两个派别似乎对与对方对抗更感兴趣，而不是联合起来阻止伊斯兰国的扩张。