The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, is coming … to Texas? Yes, if you listen to conservatives, particularly those from Texas.
伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria， 简称ISIS）要来到……德克萨斯州了吗？是的，如果你听信了保守派，尤其是那些德州保守派的说辞的话。
First, let’s say this flatly: ISIS is an outrageously barbaric group that poses a real threat to the Middle East in the short term and possibly to Western countries in the long term.
我们先直截了当地把话说清楚：ISIS是一个极其野蛮的组织，它短期内对中东构成严重威胁；长期来看，它可能还会危害西方国家。
And watching the beheading of American journalists by ISIS is most unsettling, to say nothing of the pain and torment it must cause the victims’ families. It offends and infuriates. The heart breaks and the eyes water. And there is a natural revulsion and rousing of anger.
眼睁睁地看着美国记者被ISIS斩首实在是令人难过至极，更不必说它给受害者的家人带来的痛苦和折磨。它令人恼火、惹人义愤。人们的心碎了，眼睛也湿润了。厌恶和愤怒之情油然而生。
But through the anger we must still stay levelheaded, and not allow politicians and pundits to talk us into armed conflict without clarity of mission and scope. And we also mustn’t allow them to inflate the image of the enemy to such a degree that we feel that caution and patience are not options.
不过愤怒过后，我们还必须保持冷静，不能被政客或专家们的言论左右，在任务和规模尚不明确的情况下，卷入武装冲突。此外，我们也决不能允许他们，把敌人的形象夸大到让我们觉得必须放弃谨慎和耐心的程度。
The latter seems to be very much underway. ISIS is being presented as so great a threat that action cannot be forestalled, and that amplification of threat is even being used as a political tool in the immigration debate.
后一种情况似乎正来势汹汹。根据有些人的描述，ISIS的威胁非常之大，以至于我们根本无法预先制止它的行动。对其威胁的夸大甚至还被当成了移民辩论中的一个政治工具。
The conservative website WND “reported” in July that “a top U.S. Defense Department analyst under President Bush says ISIS, the Islamic jihadists creating a Muslim caliphate in Iraq and beyond, could use the Mexican border to infiltrate America, and it could happen ‘sooner rather than later.'”
保守派网站WND在7月份“报道”，“布什政府的一名国防部权威分析师表示，ISIS——正在伊拉克及其周边地区创建穆斯林哈里发国的伊斯兰主义圣战组织——可以利用墨西哥边境来对美国进行渗透，而且这种情况可能会‘很快而非较慢’发生。”
The site continued, “ISIS may be working to infiltrate’ the U.S. with the aid of transnational drug cartels, he said, citing the violent Mexican criminal gang MS-13 as a highly likely candidate for the partnership.”
文中还称，“ISIS或许正在跨国贩毒集团的协助下努力潜入美国，他说，墨西哥暴力犯罪团伙MS-13就极有可能牵涉其中。”
WND was not the only one to hype the cartel line. Representative Ted Poe of Texas said in August that there was interaction between ISIS and Mexican drug cartels and that they were “talking to each other.”
鼓吹这种说辞的并非只有WND。德州联邦众议员特德·波(Ted Poe)曾在8月表示，ISIS和墨西哥贩毒集团之间存在互动，他们在“互相交流”。
Fox News “reported” Friday on a so-called “situational awareness” bulletin sent out by the Texas Department of Public Safety and obtained by the “news” network. According to Fox, the bulletin read, “A review of ISIS social media messaging during the week ending August 26 shows that militants are expressing an increased interest in the notion that they could clandestinely infiltrate the southwest border of U.S., for terror attack.”
Fox新闻频道(Fox News)周五“报道了”由德州公共安全部(Texas Department of Public Safety)发出、并为该“新闻”网获知的所谓“认清形势”的布告。按照Fox的说法，布告中写道，“在对截至8月26日的ISIS一周社交媒体信息进行审核后发现，武装分子对他们可以暗中渗透美国的西南边境从而进行恐怖袭击的想法越来越多地表现出兴趣。”
And members of the Obama administration — wittingly or not — fed the frenzy. In a joint news conference in August, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin Dempsey, further inflated ISIS and raised the issue of immigration and the border.
奥巴马政府的一些官员也有意无意地助长了这种狂热情绪。国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)和参谋长联席会议主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)在8月的一次联合新闻发布会上进一步夸大了ISIS的威胁，并提出了移民和边境的问题。
Hagel called ISIS an “imminent threat to every interest we have” and said, “This is beyond anything we’ve seen. We must prepare for everything.”
哈格尔称ISIS“对于我们的每项利益都有迫在眉睫的威胁。”他还表示，“这种情况是我们前所未见的。我们必须做好一切准备。”
Dempsey said, “Because of open borders and immigration issues, it’s an immediate threat, that is to say, the fighters who may leave the current fight and migrate home. Longer-term, it is about ISIS’ vision.”
邓普西则称，“因为开放的边境和移民问题，这构成了直接威胁。也就是说，有些武装分子可能会放下正在进行的战斗，然后回到家中。长期来看，这与ISIS的规划有关。
Broadly speaking, this is all true. Everything is possible, and one should never underestimate an enemy. But, neither should one inflate the image of the enemy. And a legitimate threat from foreign forces should not be used as political fodder for anti-immigrant, enforcement-over-citizenship border politicians.
概括地说，这些都不假。一切皆有可能，况且我们永远不应该低估自己的对手。不过，我们也不应该夸大敌人的形象。此外，外部势力造成的真实威胁也不应该被当做政治工具，被那些反对移民、在边境政策上强调严格执法而不愿提供入籍途径的政客拿来利用。
And yet, that appears to be what it has become.
不过，目前的事实似乎就是如此。
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas recently hinted that ISIS fighters might have already crossed the U.S.-Mexico border. According to Perry, “There’s the obvious great concern that because of the condition of the border, from the standpoint of it not being secure and us not knowing who is penetrating across, that individuals from ISIS or other terrorist states could be.” Perry continued, “I think it’s a very real possibility that they may have already used that.”
德州州长里克·佩里(Rick Perry)最近暗示，ISIS武装分子可能已经跨过了美国与墨西哥之间的边境线。佩里称，“由于边境的情况——鉴于它并不安全，而且我们也不知道谁正在进行渗透——来自ISIS或其他恐怖主义国家的个人跨越边境线，显然是我们的一大关切。”佩里还说，“我认为，他们已经对此加以利用的可能性非常之大。”
Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, said on CNN, however, that although ISIS had a desire to strike Western targets, there was “no information that leads us to believe” that ISIS fighters had crossed the border.
不过，五角大楼发言人、海军少将约翰·柯比(Rear Adm. John Kirby)在CNN的节目中表示，虽然ISIS有袭击西方目标的意图，但是目前“尚无任何信息让我们相信”ISIS武装分子已经越过边境线。
The Conservative Judicial Watch issued a statement last week claiming:
保守派组织司法观察(Judicial Watch)上周却发表声明称：
“Islamic terrorist groups are operating in the Mexican border city of Ciudad Juárez and planning to attack the United States with car bombs or other vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices (VBIED). High-level federal law enforcement, intelligence and other sources have confirmed to Judicial Watch that a warning bulletin for an imminent terrorist attack on the border has been issued. Agents across a number of Homeland Security, Justice and Defense agencies have all been placed on alert and instructed to aggressively work all possible leads and sources concerning this imminent terrorist threat.”
“伊斯兰恐怖组织正在墨西哥边境城市华雷斯城活动，并计划利用汽车炸弹或其他车载简易爆炸装置(VBIED)袭击美国。高级别的联邦执法机构、情报机构和其他一些消息来源已经向司法观察确认，边境地区即将受到恐怖袭击的警告已经发布。国土安全、司法和国防系统的多个机构的探员均处于警戒状态。他们被告知要竭尽全力地追踪与这一迫在眉睫的恐怖主义威胁相关的一切线索和资源。