PARIS — The Islamic State released a video on Sunday apparently showing footage of the men who carried out the November attacks in Paris while they were in Syria and Iraq, where they are pictured carrying out executions, including beheadings.
巴黎——上周日，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)公布了一段视频，看起来是去年11月发动巴黎袭击案的团伙在叙利亚和伊拉克时的情况，其中有他们执行死刑，将囚徒斩首的画面。
If the identities of all of the men in the video are confirmed, it would be the first evidence that the group that killed 130 people in coordinated attacks in Paris on Nov. 13 had been sent from the Islamic State’s base in Syria.
如果视频中所有人的身份得到确认，那么这将是第一个证据，表明是伊斯兰国在叙利亚的大本营派遣这伙人开展了去年11月13日在巴黎的有组织的袭击，导致130人丧生。
The video makes it clear that the Paris attacks were not just inspired by the Islamic State, but rather carried out by core members of the terrorist group, who had been trained and vetted in Syria before being tapped to carry out attacks on European soil. It also aims to show that the assailants — nearly all of whom had European passports — had been carrying out atrocities in the group’s name long before their return to Europe.
这段视频清楚地表明，巴黎袭击案不仅仅是受到了伊斯兰国的激发，而且还是这个恐怖组织的核心成员开展的，这些人在欧洲境内开展袭击之前，曾在叙利亚接受过培训。视频旨在表明，这些袭击者——几乎所有人都持有欧洲护照——在返回欧洲前，已经以伊斯兰国的名义开展暴力活动多年。
It is unclear why it took the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, more than two months to release the video, which also includes numerous images of the Paris attacks. Under the headline “Target Area: Paris,” it shows frantic televised scenes of soccer players and fans reacting to explosions at the Stade du France, and chaos on the streets near the Bataclan and other venues where the mass shootings took place.
伊斯兰国也称为ISIS或ISIL。目前还不清楚他们为什么两个月之后才公布了这段视频。视频标题为《目标区域：巴黎》(Target Area: Paris)，其中还包括很多巴黎袭击案的影像，它截取的电视图像包括法兰西大球场(Stade de France)爆炸时足球运动员和球迷的反应，巴塔克兰音乐厅(Le Bataclan)等娱乐场所发生大规模枪击事件时，附近街道的混乱场面。
Charlie Winter, a senior researcher at the Transcultural Conflict and Violence Initiative at Georgia State who monitors jihadist propaganda, said if the group had published the video immediately after the Nov. 13 attacks, it would have been swallowed in the wave of coverage.
乔治亚州的跨文化冲突和暴力机构(Transcultural Conflict and Violence Initiative)对圣战宣传进行了跟踪研究，该机构资深研究员查理·温特(Charlie Winter)表示，如果这段视频在11月13日袭击后立即发布，会被铺天盖地的报道所淹没。
“We know that their propaganda wing is very patient and happy to bide their time until the product they have is deemed to be perfect,” he said.
“我们知道，他们的宣传部门很有耐心，乐意等候时机，直到他们认为作品已臻完美，”他说。
The Islamic State began teasing the release of the video last week in Dabiq, its monthly magazine, where a still image of the video appeared. Several of the assailants pictured in Syria or Iraq are seen wearing what appear to be lapel microphones suggesting that they were recording themselves.
伊斯兰国上周在其网络月刊《达比克》(Dabiq)上发布了这段视频的截屏，显示几个袭击者在叙利亚或伊拉克的情景，他们似乎佩戴着领夹麦克风，说明正在录制画面。
The existence of a prerecorded video is important in the debate on whether the attackers were sent by the Islamic State itself or were simply inspired to act in its name. In some of the most devastating terrorist attacks, including the 2005 London bombings, the assailants recorded statements that they were acting on behalf of Al Qaeda.
存在这种预先录制的视频很重要，因为人们在争论袭击者是由伊斯兰国派遣的，还是受其激发自行开展行动。在一些破坏性极大的恐怖袭击中，包括2005年伦敦爆炸案，袭击者都录下了声明，自称是以基地组织(Al Qaeda)的名义开展行动。
A possible motivation for the new extended video is to avoid the confusion that followed the January 2015 terrorist attack on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris, where the absence of such a video caused analysts to doubt if Saïd and Chérif Kouachi had been sent by Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, as they claimed. At least one of the brothers is known to have traveled to Yemen to train with the terrorist group, and more than a year later, most experts agree that it played a role in the attack, though the extent of control-and-command remains a matter of debate.
发布这段新的长视频也可能是为了避免混淆。巴黎讽刺杂志《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)在2015年1月遭受恐怖攻击时，没有这样的视频出现，因此分析人士怀疑赛义德(Saïd)和谢里夫·库瓦奇(Chérif Kouachi)兄弟未必像他们自称的那样，受到阿拉伯半岛基地组织的差遣。不过人们已经知道，兄弟俩中至少有一个曾经前往也门，接受恐怖组织的培训。一年多后的现在，大多数专家认为恐怖组织在《查理周报》袭击案中发挥了作用，但对于恐怖组织在多大程度上安排和指挥了那起袭击，人们仍然存在争论。
In the ISIS video released Sunday, seven of the Paris attackers are shown addressing the camera, one by one, on a windswept dune. The youngest of the group, Bilal Hadfi, 20 — who wept when he said goodbye to his mother in Belgium before leaving for Syria last year — is shown with a prisoner kneeling at his feet.
在上周日公布的这段ISIS视频中，七名巴黎袭击者在刮着大风的沙丘上，一个接一个对着摄像机讲话。这些人中最年轻的是20岁的比拉尔·哈德菲(Bilal Hadfi)，去年他在比利时告别母亲，前往叙利亚的时候，曾经流下眼泪——在视频中，一个囚犯跪在他的脚下。
He pushes the man to the ground and beheads him.
他把这名男子推倒，然后将其斩首。
Samy Amimour, from the Drancy suburb of Paris whose 67-year-old father traveled to Syria in a failed attempt to retrieve him, smiles as he holds a captive’s head.
萨米·阿米穆尔(Samy Amimour)来自巴黎郊区德朗西，他67岁的父亲曾前往叙利亚，试图将他带回，但没有成功。在视频中，他面带微笑，抓着一个俘虏的头。
And Omar Ismail Mostefai, who detonated a suicide vest inside the Bataclan concert hall, is shown holding another victim by the nape of his neck. “Know that we have received an order from the emir of the believers to kill you wherever you are,” he says, using the honorific for the leader of the Islamic State, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.
还有在巴塔克兰音乐厅内引爆自杀背心的奥马尔·伊斯梅尔·穆斯塔法伊(Omar Ismail Mostefai)，他在视频中捏着另一个受害者的后颈。“要知道，我们已经接到了信徒的埃米尔的命令，无论你在哪里，都会杀掉你，”他说。“信徒的埃米尔”指的是伊斯兰国领导人阿布·贝克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)。
One of the few attackers who is not shown executing a captive is Abdelhamid Abaaoud, who appears in a room with the Islamic State flag.
视频中有几名袭击者没有给囚犯行刑的画面，其中包括阿卜杜勒哈米德·阿巴乌德(Abdelhamid Abaaoud)，他手持伊斯兰国旗帜出现在一间屋子里。
“We will not stop fighting you in every part of the world regardless of whether you are on a tourism trip or a work trip,” he says in French, according to a transcript provided by SITE Intelligence, which monitors jihadist statements. “So expect more. Expect a mujahid to show up to kill you.”
“我们会不停地在世界各个角落发起袭击，不管你是在旅行还是出差途中，”他用法语说道，该信息来自监测圣战分子声明的赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence)提供的一份复印件。“所以等着吧，还会有更多袭击，等着一名圣战战士前去杀你。”