WASHINGTON — An Islamic militant group released a video on Tuesday showing the beheading of a second American hostage, blaming the killing on President Obama and raising the pressure on him to order military strikes on the group in its sanctuary in Syria.
华盛顿——本周二，一个伊斯兰激进组织发布了第二名美国人质遭到斩首的视频，并指责奥巴马总统导致了这起杀戮；此事给奥巴马带来更大压力，一些人敦促他下令对该组织在叙利亚的藏身之地进行军事打击。
The hostage, Steven J. Sotloff, is shown in the video kneeling like the previous victim, James Foley, while his masked killer stands above, wielding a knife. Mr. Sotloff addresses the camera and describes himself as “paying the price” for Mr. Obama’s decision to strike the group, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, in northern Iraq.
视频显示，人质史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)双膝下跪，像之前的受害者詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)一样，蒙面凶手站在他旁边，拿着一把刀。索特洛夫对着摄像头，讲述自己正在为奥巴马在伊拉克北部打击伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS）的决定“付出代价”。
The apparent murder of Mr. Sotloff, 31, came despite televised pleas from his mother to the leader of ISIS seeking mercy for her son, a freelance journalist who was captured in northern Syria a year ago. Although the administration said it had not yet authenticated the video, members of Mr. Sotloff’s family issued a statement saying they believed he had been killed.
索特洛夫现年31岁，是自由撰稿记者，一年前在叙利亚北部被抓获；尽管他母亲摄制了恳求ISIS领导者怜悯儿子的录像，索特洛夫还是遭到杀害。虽然美国当局表示，该视频尚未经过验证，但索特洛夫的家庭成员发表声明说，他们相信他已遭杀害。
The videotaped beheadings and threats by ISIS — which have followed its lightning conquest of broad areas of Syria and Iraq — have transformed the jihadi group into one of the most urgent threats facing a president who is wrestling with crises from Ukraine to Gaza.
在闪电占领了叙利亚和伊拉克的广袤地区之后，ISIS发布的这些斩首和威胁录像，使得该圣战组织成为了奥巴马面临的最迫在眉睫的威胁之一；目前奥巴马还正在拼命应对从乌克兰到加沙的各种危机。
The killing raises difficult questions for Mr. Obama, who last Friday said he had not yet formulated a strategy for using military force against the militants in Syria. As news of Mr. Sotloff’s death broke on Tuesday afternoon, just before Mr. Obama left for a weeklong trip to Europe and a NATO summit meeting, the White House struggled to deal with the implications for his policy.
这起杀戮给奥巴马出了一个难题，上周五他曾表示，自己尚未制定用武力打击叙利亚境内武装分子的策略。本周二下午，索特洛夫的死讯传来，白宫开始艰难地应对此事对奥巴马政策的影响，此前，奥巴马正准备开始为期一周的欧洲之行并参加北约峰会。
“If genuine, we are appalled by the brutal murder of an innocent American journalist and we express our deepest condolences to his family and friends,” a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, Bernadette Meehan, said of the video.
“一名无辜的美国记者惨遭杀害，这着实令我们震惊；在此，我们对他的家人和朋友致以最深切的慰问，”国家安全委员会的女发言人贝尔纳黛特·米汉(Bernadette Meehan)就该视频表示。
White House officials said Mr. Obama remained cautious about military strikes in Syria, and that he was focused for now on developing a strategy and assembling a broad coalition of countries to deal with ISIS, one of several combatants in Syria’s three-year-old civil war.
白宫官员说，对于在叙利亚开展军事打击一事，奥巴马仍然持谨慎态度，现在他专注于制定一个战略，以及组建一个广泛的国家联盟，用以对付ISIS。叙利亚内战至今已经持续3年，ISIS是参与其中的几个派别之一。
But the harrowing images of Americans with knives to their throats has given the threat from ISIS an emotional resonance and stoked calls on Capitol Hill and elsewhere for Mr. Obama to act more boldly. Some current and former counterterrorism officials said that although Mr. Obama would be under extraordinary pressure to retaliate, there were arguments against striking back.
但是，刀子抵在美国人咽喉上的视频，让人们从感情层面意识到了ISIS的威胁，而且也在美国国会和其他地方激起了要求奥巴马采取更大胆行动的呼吁。一些现任和前任反恐官员说，尽管奥巴马将会面临要求他报复的巨大压力，也有一些观点认为不应该予以回击。
As horrifying as this latest killing was, some former officials predicted that it would have little effect on Mr. Obama’s deliberations.
虽然最新的这起杀戮事件很可怕，但一些前官员预测，它对奥巴马的决策过程影响极小。
“Steve Sotloff’s murder was anticipated,” said Steven Simon, a former director on the National Security Council. “The unresolved issues relate to escalation within Syria.” The farther west the U.S. strikes ISIS, he said, the more it will be seen intervening on behalf of President Bashar al-Assad in the civil war.
“人们预料到了史蒂夫·索特洛夫会遭杀害，”国家安全委员会前主任史蒂文·西蒙(Steven Simon)说。“尚未解决的问题涉及到叙利亚境内出现的事态升级。”美国打击ISIS的位置越是靠西，他说，人们就越会把这些行动看成是为了总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)而干预叙利亚内战。
The latest video was staged much like the one with Mr. Foley. Mr. Sotloff, wearing an orange jumpsuit, said: “Your foreign policy of intervention in Iraq was supposed to be about the preservation of American lives and interests. So why is it that I’m having to pay the price of your interference with my life?”
最新的这个视频安排得与弗利的视频大体相同。身穿橙色连身衣的索特洛夫说：“你干预伊拉克的外交政策，理应旨在保护美国人的生命和利益。那为什么因为你的这种干预，我却即将付出生命的代价？”
A masked fighter speaking in British-accented English — similar to the disguised person in the Foley video — then declared, “I’m back, Obama, and I’m back because of your arrogant foreign policy towards the Islamic State.”
随后，一名蒙面武装分子用带有英国口音的英语——很像弗利视频中的蒙面者——宣布，“我回来了，奥巴马，我之所以回来，是因为你对ISIS采取了傲慢自大的外交政策。”