Kneeling in the dirt in a desert somewhere in the Middle East, James Foley lost his life this week at the hands of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. Before pulling out the knife, his masked executioner explained that he was killing the 40-year-old American journalist in retaliation for the recent United States’ airstrikes against the terror group in Iraq.
本周，詹姆斯·福利(James Foley)跪在中东一处荒芜的土地上，被伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）夺去生命。在拔刀以前，杀害他的蒙面刽子手解释称，他杀死这名40岁的美国记者，是为了报复美国最近对这个伊拉克的恐怖组织进行的空袭。
In fact, until recently, ISIS had a very different list of demands for Mr. Foley: They pressed the United States to provide a multimillion-dollar ransom for his release, according to a representative of the family and a former hostage held alongside him. The United States — unlike some European countries — refused to pay for Mr. Foley.
事实上，ISIS通过福利提出的诉求一直到最近才发生改变：一名家人代表和曾作为人质与他一同被扣押的人称，他们曾要求美国为释放福利提供数百万美元的赎金。美国——与一些欧洲国家不同——拒绝支付赎金。
The issue of how to deal with ISIS, which like many Islamic extremist groups now routinely trades captives for large cash payments, is acute for the Obama administration because Mr. Foley was not the lone American in its custody. ISIS is threatening to kill at least three other Americans it holds if its demands remain unmet, The New York Times has confirmed through interviews with recently released prisoners, family members of the victims and with mediators attempting to win their freedom.
对于奥巴马政府而言，对付ISIS的问题变得十分急迫，因为福利并非唯一被ISIS绑架的美国人。目前，许多伊斯兰极端主义组织经常会利用他们俘获的人质来交换大笔资金，ISIS也不例外。ISIS威胁称，如果它的要求得不到满足，就要杀害被它拘留的另外三名美国人。《纽约时报》已经通过对最近获释的囚犯、受害者家属和试图营救他们的调停者进行的采访证实了这一点。
Sensitive to growing criticism at home that it had not done enough, the White House on Wednesday revealed that a United States Special Operations team tried and failed to rescue Mr. Foley — a New Hampshire native who disappeared in Syria on Nov. 22, 2012 — as well as the other American hostages during a secret mission earlier this summer. Mr. Obama on Wednesday said the United States would not retreat until it had eliminated the “cancer” of ISIS from the Middle East.
在美国国内，认为政府没有采取足够行动的批评声越来越强烈，意识到这一点的白宫周三透露，今年夏天早些时候，一支美国陆军特种部队(United States Special Operations)曾试图在一次秘密行动中营救福利——他是新罕布什尔人，于2012年11月22日在叙利亚失踪——和其他美国人质，但最终失败。奥巴马周三表示，除非能摘除中东地区的ISIS“毒瘤”，否则美国绝不撤退。
ISIS also appears determined to increase the pressure on Washington. It has now threatened to kill a second of its hostages, Steven Sotloff, a freelance journalist for Time magazine who was being held alongside Mr. Foley.
ISIS似乎也决意要进一步向美国政府施压。现在它又威胁要杀害另一名人质史蒂文·索特洛夫(Steven Sotloff)。他是《时代》周刊(Time)的自由记者，一直与福利关在一起。
In the video uploaded to YouTube on Tuesday, the screen goes dark after Foley is decapitated. Then the ISIS fighter is seen holding Mr. Sotloff in the same landscape of barren dunes, his hands cuffed behind his back and wearing an orange jumpsuit. “The life of this American citizen, Obama, depends on your next decision.”
在周二上传到YouTube的视频中，福利被斩首后荧幕随即变黑。然后，ISIS武装人员在同一片布满沙丘的荒地上押解着索特洛夫，他的双手戴着手铐背在背后，穿着橙色连体服。“这个美国公民的性命，奥巴马，取决于你接下来的决策。”
Along with the three Americans, ISIS is also holding three citizens of Britain, which like the United States has declined to pay ransoms. The terror group has sent a laundry list of demands for the release of the captives, starting with money but also prisoner swaps, including the liberation of Aafia Siddiqui, an MIT-trained Pakistani neuroscientist with ties to Al Qaeda currently incarcerated in a prison in Texas. The policy of not making concessions to terrorists and not paying ransoms has put the United States and Britain at odds with some European allies, who have routinely paid significant sums to win the release of their nationals — including four French and two Spanish hostages, who were released earlier this year after money was delivered through an intermediary, according to former hostages and their colleagues.
除三名美国人以外，ISIS还抓了三个英国公民——英国与美国一样，也拒绝支付赎金。该恐怖组织还发出了一个清单，上面罗列着释放人质的具体条件，他们开始提到了钱，同时也提到了囚犯交换，希望交换的囚犯还包括阿菲亚·西迪基(Aafia Siddiqui)。西迪基是一名巴基斯坦神经系统科学家，曾就读于麻省理工学院(MIT)，他与基地组织(Al Qaeda)有联系，目前被关在德克萨斯州的一座监狱。不向恐怖分子让步和不支付赎金的政策使美国和英国与一些欧洲盟友产生了分歧。后者经常会为解救本国国民——其中包括四名法国人质和两名西班牙人质——支付高额赎金。根据现已获释的人质以及他们的同事提供的信息，在通过中间人交付赎金之后，这些人质已于今年早些时候获释。
Kidnapping Europeans has become the main source of revenue for Qaeda and its immediate affiliates, which have earned at least $125 million in ransom payments in the last five years alone, according to an investigation by the New York Times. Islamic extremists with ties to Qaeda — including the Taliban in Afghanistan and Boko Haram in Nigeria — have also recently begun copying Qaeda’s kidnapping business plan, grabbing dozens of foreigners — and again zeroing in on Europeans as the most lucrative commodity.
绑架欧洲人已经成了基地组织及其直接附属机构的主要收入来源；据《纽约时报》调查，仅过去五年，他们就至少获得了1.25亿美元（约合7.7亿元人民币）的赎金。与基地组织有联系的伊斯兰极端主义者——其中包括阿富汗的塔利班(Taliban)和尼日利亚的博科圣地(Boko Haram)——最近也开始模仿基地组织通过绑架来挣钱的计划，从而抓获了数十名外国人——并且再次把目标对准了被认为最有利可图的欧洲人。
ISIS was recently expelled from Qaeda and abides by different rules. But recently freed hostages said that their English and French captors were well aware of what ransoms had been paid on behalf of European nationals held by Qaeda affiliates in the past.
ISIS最近被基地组织驱逐，遵循不同的规则。但是最近获释的人质说，抓获他们的英国和法国人非常清楚过去被基地组织附属机构俘获的欧洲人质换取了多少赎金。
While government and counterterrorism officials insist that paying ransoms only perpetuates the problem, the policy has meant that captured Americans have little chance of being released. Only a handful of American captives held by Islamic extremists have succeeded in running away. Even fewer were rescued in special operations, which are risky and sometimes cost the life of the victim. The rest are either held indefinitely — or else killed.
虽然政府和反恐官员坚称，支付赎金只会让这个问题继续存在，但这种政策就意味着，被俘获的美国人几乎没有获释的机会。被伊斯兰极端主义者抓获的美国人中，只有少数成功逃跑，特种部队行动解救的更是少之又少。这些行动往往很危险，有时还会导致受害者丢失性命。其他人要么一直被关，要么被杀。
Mr. Foley, the eldest of five children from Rochester, N.H., went missing on Nov. 22, 2012, in a town just 25 miles south of the Turkish border. He had spent weeks in Syria documenting the country’s spiral into civil war, and had narrowly avoided a tank shell. The normally unflappable reporter — who had come under fire in Afghanistan and had been kidnapped a year earlier in Libya — was rattled.
福利是新罕布什尔罗切斯特人，在家中五个孩子中排行老大，他于2012年11月22日在土耳其边境以南仅25英里（约合40公里）的地方失踪。他曾花数周时间在叙利亚记录叙利亚陷入内战的过程，还差点被坦克的炮弹击中。这个通常镇定自若的记者——他曾在阿富汗遇袭，一年前还在利比亚被俘——慌乱了。
As the Thanksgiving holiday approached, he contacted a close friend, fellow photojournalist Nicole Tung, and they made plans to meet for a few days across the border in Turkey. When Foley didn’t show up at the hotel at 5 p.m. as planned, Ms. Tung began calling his cellphone, finally reaching his translator.
随着感恩节临近，他联系了自己的密友、摄影记者妮可·董(Nicole Tung)，他们打算越过边境，一起在土耳其待几天。当天下午5点，福利没有按计划出现在酒店，妮可·董便开始拨打他的手机，最后找到了他的翻译。
The man explained that Mr. Foley had stopped in an Internet cafe to file his last images in the Syrian town of Binesh. Soon after as he was riding to the border, armed men sped up behind his car, and forced Mr. Foley out at gunpoint.
翻译解释说，福利曾在一个网吧逗留，发送他在叙利亚城镇比尼希(Binesh)的最后照片。没过多久，正当他朝边境驶去时，跟在他车后的武装人员开始加速，并用枪逼他下车。
“I was sitting on the bed, in this depressing, dark hotel. The fact that the fixer answered the phone — when Jim was not answering his — was the cue that something had gone terribly wrong,” said Tung, who immediately contacted his family and editors.
妮可·董说，“我坐在一个压抑而黑暗的酒店的床上。电话是助理接的——吉姆没有接手机，这个事实说明发生了很可怕的事。”她立即联系了福利的家人和编辑。
Across the ocean at his home in Cambridge, Mass., the chief executive and co-founder of GlobalPost, Philip Balboni reached for his Blackberry and had a terrible sense of foreboding: The email informing him of Mr. Foley’s abduction was almost an exact replay of the horror his staff had endured a year earlier, when Mr. Foley was kidnapped along with three others by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi’s forces in Libya.
在大洋彼岸，《环球邮报》(GlobalPost)的首席执行官及联合创始人菲利普·巴尔博尼(Philip Balboni)在位于马萨诸塞州坎布里奇的家中，拿起自己的黑莓手机(Blackberry)，他有种不详的预感：通知他福利被绑架的邮件几乎精确地重现了他的员工一年前所经历的那种恐惧。当时，福利与其他三人一同在利比亚被穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)的部队绑架。
“We had joked that we needed to take away his passport,” Mr. Balboni said on Wednesday. “I don’t want to say it was déjà vu, but in a way it was,” he added. “It just turns your life upside down — in one way, I knew what was coming, but I did not know the fullness of it.”
“我们还开玩笑说要没收他的护照，”巴尔博尼周三说。“我不想说这件事似曾相识，但是在某种程度上的确如此，”他还说。“它会改变你的生活——从某种意义上来讲，我知道有事情要发生，但又不清楚具体会发生什么。”
When he was executed this week, Mr. Foley became the second Western reporter to be killed by Islamic extremists since 2002, when Daniel Pearl, a Wall Street Journal reporter, was beheaded by a top Qaeda operative. Mr. Pearl’s murder was praised by another Qaeda operative in a how-to manual that promoted the tactic of kidnapping foreigners. Since then, Qaeda has turned to kidnapping to finance itself — seizing more than 50 foreigners just in the past five years, almost all of whom were released after their governments paid a sizable ransom, according to a review of the known cases by The New York Times.
本周被斩首的福利成了2002年以来，第二个被伊斯兰极端主义者杀害的西方记者。当年，华尔街日报(Wall Street Journal)的记者丹尼尔·珀尔(Daniel Pearl)被基地组织的一名高级行动人员斩首。另一名基地组织行动人员则在一个行动指南中对杀害珀尔的做法表示了赞扬，该指南意在宣传绑架外国人这一战术。根据《纽约时报》对已知案件的审核，从那时起，基地组织便开始通过绑架来获取资金——仅仅过去五年就绑架了50多名外国人，这些人几乎都在他们的政府支付了数额相当高的赎金之后获释。
Mr. Foley graduated from Marquette University in 1996 with a history degree. He joined Teach for America that year, working at an elementary school in Phoenix, officials with the organization said. In 2008, he earned a master’s degree from the Medill School of Journalism.
福利1996年从马凯特大学(Marquette University)毕业，获历史学位。美丽美国(Teach for America)的管理人员称，福利于同年加入该组织，在菲尼克斯的一所小学工作。2008年，他从麦迪尔新闻学院(Medill School of Journalism)获得硕士学位。
“He was so clear on what he wanted to do,” said Ellen Shearer, a professor who taught Mr. Foley.
“他很清楚自己想做什么，”教过福利的教授埃伦·希勒(Ellen Shearer)说。
Unlike most freelancers who often take sizable risks without the safety net of an established news organization, Mr. Foley found a second family at GlobalPost, which paid a security firm millions of dollars to try to find him, Mr. Balboni said.
因为没有知名新闻机构提供的安全保障，大部分自由记者通常都冒着相当大的风险。和他们不同的是，《环球邮报》成了福利的第二个家。巴尔博尼称，该报向一家安全公司支付了数百万美元，请对方尝试寻找福利。
After his fortuitous release in Libya, GlobalPost brought him back to Boston where he spent a stint as an editor on the desk, but it did not last for long.
在利比亚侥幸获释后，《环球邮报》让福利回到了波士顿。他在那里的编辑部担任了一段时间的编辑，但这种情况没持续多长时间。
“When you are touched by being in a war, you can’t get rid of it,” said Mr. Balboni, a veteran reporter as well as a former Vietnam officer.
“亲历战争的影响，一旦碰到就很难摆脱，” 既是一名经验丰富的记者，又是越战老兵的巴尔博尼说。