WASHINGTON — The Obama administration’s top intelligence, counterterrorism and law enforcement officials are divided over which terrorist group poses the biggest threat to the American homeland, the Islamic State or Al Qaeda and its affiliates.
华盛顿——究竟哪个恐怖组织对美国国土的威胁最大，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)还是基地组织(Al Qaeda)及其附属机构？针对这一问题，奥巴马政府最高层的情报官员、反恐官员和执法官员意见不一。
The split reflects a rising concern that the Islamic State poses a more immediate danger because of its unprecedented social media campaign, using sophisticated online messaging to inspire followers to launch attacks across the United States.
这种分歧反映出，人们越来越担心，伊斯兰国带来了更加紧迫的危险，原因是它主导了一场史无前例的社交媒体运动，会巧妙地使用网上留言来激发追随者在美国各地进行恐怖袭击。
Many intelligence and counterterrorism officials warn, however, that Qaeda operatives in Yemen and Syria are capitalizing on the turmoil in those countries to plot much larger “mass casualty” attacks, including bringing down airliners carrying hundreds of passengers.
但是，不少情报和反恐官员也发出警告，基地组织正利用也门和叙利亚的乱局谋划远远更胜从前的“大规模伤亡”恐怖袭击，包括击落可以容纳数百名乘客的大型客机。
This is not an academic argument. It will influence how the government allocates billions of dollars in counterterrorism funds, and how it assigns thousands of federal agents, intelligence analysts and troops to combat a multipronged threat that senior officials say is changing rapidly.
这可不是学术讨论。它会影响到政府如何分配数以十亿美元计的反恐资金，以及如何部署数以千计的联邦特工、情报分析人员和美国部队，以应对这一多头发展且据高级官员讲，在快速变化着的威胁。
The issue already has prompted a White House review of its counterterrorism policy toward the Islamic State. And the National Counterterrorism Center has diverted analysts working on longer-term extremist threats to focus on the Islamic State, also called ISIS or ISIL, intelligence officials said.
这一问题已促使白宫重新审视其针对伊斯兰国的反恐政策。一些情报官员表示，美国国家反恐中心(National Counterterrorism Center)已经让做更长期极端主义威胁研究的分析人员转而专注于伊斯兰国（亦称ISIS或ISIL）。
In June, the F.B.I. had so many people under surveillance in terrorism-related investigations — mostly related to the Islamic State — that supervisors reassigned criminal squads to monitor terrorism suspects.
今年6月，美国联邦调查局(FBI)在多项恐怖主义调查中将大批人员置于监视之下，以致于需要调用刑事案小组帮助监视恐怖主义嫌疑人。而这些调查多数和伊斯兰国有关。
For all the concern, there have been no Qaeda attacks in the United States in 14 years, though some were thwarted or fell part. And most of the ISIS-inspired plots so far have been unsophisticated but increasingly difficult for authorities to detect in advance.
尽管有这些担心，美国已经有14年没发生过一起基地组织袭击事件，不过有些袭击是被事先挫败或自行瓦解的。目前大多数受伊斯兰国煽动而起的阴谋袭击并不复杂，但它们越来越难被当局预先察觉。
American officials say this is not a black-and-white debate between those who worry more about Al Qaeda as the main threat to the homeland and those who say it is the Islamic State. Both are worrisome.
美国官员表示，在将基地组织作为国土安全主要威胁和认为伊斯兰国才是最大威胁的人之间，不存在非黑即白的论争。二者都令人担忧。
It is more a shift in emphasis. The F.B.I., the Justice Department and the Department of Homeland Security are concerned more about the rising risk from the Islamic State, while the Pentagon, intelligence agencies and the National Counterterrorism Center, which focus more on threats abroad, are more anxious about Qaeda operatives overseas.
情况更像是重心的转移。FBI、司法部和国土安全部更担心伊斯兰国日益增大的危险性，而更关注国外威胁的五角大楼、情报机构和国家反恐中心则对基地组织的海外行动人员更为担忧。
The White House seems to be leaning toward the Islamic State, increasingly alarmed by what Lisa Monaco, President Obama’s homeland security and counterterrorism adviser, recently called the group’s “unique threat” to the United States.
白宫似乎更加担心伊斯兰国，为奥巴马的国土安全和反恐顾问莉萨·莫纳科(Lisa Monaco)最近所说的该组织对美国的“特别威胁”而愈发忧心。
The debate is evolving in real time, thus there have been no large shifts in money or personnel yet in one direction or the other. But it marks the first time senior American officials have spoken so openly about the evolution.
这场争论正在实时展开，因而目前没有出现大批资金或人员向其中一个方向转移的迹象。但这是美国高层官员首次如此公开地谈论这种转变。
How much the United States spends on counterterrorism is difficult to pinpoint because many of the main actors and agencies — American troops, C.I.A. analysts and F.B.I. agents, to name a few — carry out other functions, as well. But senior American officials say that counterterrorism programs employ roughly one in four of the more than 100,000 people who work at the C.I.A. and other intelligence agencies, and account for about one-third of the $50 billion annual intelligence budget.
很难算清美国究竟在反恐方面投入了多少资金，因为很多主要的参与者和相关机构——比如，美国部队、中央情报局(CIA)分析员和FBI特工——也在同时开展其他行动。但美国高层官员表示，在CIA和其他情报机构的十多万工作人员中，反恐项目动用了大约四分之一，其费用约占每年500亿美元的情报预算的三分之一。
About 3,400 American troops in Iraq are helping the Iraqis fight the Islamic State, while about 9,800 forces in Afghanistan are assisting that country’s security personnel in combating the Taliban, Al Qaeda and other extremists there.
在伊拉克，有大约3400名美国士兵正在帮助伊拉克人对抗伊斯兰国，而在阿富汗，有9800名美国士兵在协助该国安全人员与塔利班、基地组织和那里的其他极端主义势力进行战斗。
The issue is likely to gain prominence in the 2016 presidential campaign, as Republican candidates criticize the Obama administration for failing to anticipate the rise of the Islamic State from the ashes of the Iraq war. “We didn’t finish the job,” Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said last month.
这一问题可能会成为2016年美国总统大选的突出议题，共和党候选人指责奥巴马政府没能预料到伊斯兰国会在伊拉克战争的废墟之上发展起来。“我们没能完成任务，”佛罗里达州参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)上个月曾如此表示。
The debate was brought to the surface two weeks ago when James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, said at the Aspen Security Forum in Colorado that the Islamic State posed the greatest danger to the homeland.
有关伊斯兰国和基地组织的争论之所以会浮出水面，是因为两周前，FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)在科罗拉多州举行的阿斯彭安全论坛(Aspen Security Forum)上讲到，伊斯兰国对美国国土安全构成了最大的威胁。
Senior leaders of the Islamic State — unlike those of Al Qaeda — have not made a priority of organizing strikes on the West. Instead, the Islamic State has encouraged individual Westerners to carry out such attacks on their own. “It’s currently the threat that we’re worrying about in the homeland most of all,” Mr. Comey said.
与基地组织不同，伊斯兰国的高层领导并没有将对西方策划袭击当成重点事项。相反，它鼓励西方人自己对西方世界发动袭击。“这是目前国土安全领域，我们最为担心的威胁，”科米说道。
Mr. Comey said the group was focusing on how to “crowdsource” terrorism, by having thousands of its promoters reach out and screen potential adherents on Twitter and other open social media, then switch to communicating on encrypted apps or email programs that American intelligence officials say they have difficulty cracking.
科米表示，伊斯兰国的关注点是，通过“众包”来推进恐怖主义。他们让成千上万的推广人在Twitter和其他开放的社交媒体上联络和筛选潜在的追随者，之后转移到加密的应用软件或电子邮件程序上进行联络。美国情报官员表示，他们很难破解这些程序。
“They’re just pushy,” Mr. Comey said. “They’re like a devil on somebody’s shoulders saying, ‘Kill, kill kill,’ all day long.”
“他们很能挑唆，”科米说道。“就像一个小恶魔，站在一个人肩膀上，不停喊‘杀杀杀’。”
A few days later, the attorney general, Loretta E. Lynch, weighed in on ABC News, saying of the Islamic State, “It’s as serious — if not more serious a threat — than Al Qaeda.”
几天后，司法部长洛蕾塔·E·林奇(Loretta E. Lynch)在ABC新闻节目中就此发表观点，她表示伊斯兰国的“威胁即使不比基地组织更大，也称得上同样严重”。
American analysts say the Islamic State is replacing its combatants in Iraq and Syria as fast as the United States and its allies are killing them there, and the group still maintains as many as 31,000 fighters.
美国分析人士表示，伊斯兰国在伊拉克和叙利亚补充作战人员的速度，和美国及其盟友在那里消灭他们的速度一样快，目前该组织依然有多达3.1万名作战人员。
Unlike Al Qaeda, ISIS controls territory, provides civil services and has infrastructure. It remains well funded — earning close to $1 billion a year in oil revenues and taxes, according to Treasury Department estimates — and has expanded to other countries, including Libya, Afghanistan and the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt.
和基地组织不同，伊斯兰国有控制领土，提供行政服务，也有基础设施。它的资金依然非常充足——据美国财政部估计，伊斯兰国每年在石油和税收方面的收入接近10亿美元——而且其势力范围已经扩展到了其他国家，包括利比亚、阿富汗和埃及的西奈半岛。
Current and former counterterrorism and intelligence officials, as well as some lawmakers, who closely monitor risks overseas say that although the risks of the Islamic State are real, the overall threat is more complex and requires a nuanced strategy.
现在和之前从事反恐和情报工作的官员，以及一些国会议员密切关注着来自美国本土之外的威胁。他们表示，尽管伊斯兰国带来的危险真实存在，但它的整体威胁要更为复杂，需要对它采取更缜密的策略。
“ISIS is all about the quantity of attacks. Al Qaeda, on the other hand, is focused on the quality of the attack,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee. “For that reason, Al Qaeda still, in that respect, very much concerns me even more than the quantity of ISIS attacks.”
“伊斯兰国看重的是袭击次数，但基地组织关注的是袭击的质量，”众议院情报委员会资深成员、加州众议员亚当·B·希夫(Adam B. Schiff)说。“因此，基地组织在这方面依然让我非常担心，甚至超出了对伊斯兰国袭击数量的担心。”
Gen. Joseph L. Votel, head of the Pentagon’s Special Operations Command, said at the Aspen forum that the Islamic State is “much more prominent right now,” but added that Al Qaeda “remains a very, very, significant concern for us.”
五角大楼特种作战司令部指挥官约瑟夫·L·沃泰上将(Joseph L. Votel)在阿斯彭论坛上表示，伊斯兰国的问题“目前要突出得多，”但他补充说，基地组织“对我们来说仍是非常非常大的担忧。”
Nicholas Rasmussen, the director of the National Counterterrorism Center, said in an interview, “There’s a greater likelihood of ISIL being linked to attacks in the homeland right now. That said, we still look at A.Q.A.P. as more capable of carrying out larger-scale attacks against the homeland, including against aircraft coming here.” A.Q.A.P. is the Qaeda affiliate based in the Arabian Peninsula, in Yemen.
美国国家反恐中心主任尼古拉斯·拉斯穆森(Nicholas Rasmussen)在接受采访时说，“美国本土受到的袭击，与伊斯兰国存在关联的可能性较大。尽管如此，我们还是认为，阿拉伯半岛基地组织(AQAP)更有可能对美国本土发起较大规模的恐怖袭击，包括对飞往美国的飞机采取的行动。”