The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria released a video Saturday of the third beheading of a foreign hostage, a British aid worker, in a clear message to Britain, a vital ally of the United States as it builds an international coalition to target the militant group, which has made stunning advances across Syria and northern Iraq in recent months.
伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）周六发布了第三则斩首外国人质的视频，受害者是一名英国人道救援工作者。这是该组织向英国发出的明确信息。最近几个月，ISIS在叙利亚和伊拉克北部取得了惊人的进展。而在美国建立打击这个极端组织的国际联盟的过程中，英国是美国的重要盟友。
The video shows the aid worker, David Cawthorne Haines, kneeling on a bare hill under the open sky, in a landscape that appears identical to where two American journalists were killed by the group in back-to-back-executions in the past month. In the moments before his death, the 44-year-old Mr. Haines is forced to read a script, in which he blames his country’s leaders for his killing.
视频显示，救援工作者戴维·考索恩·海恩斯(David Cawthorne Haines)跪在寸草不生的山上，头顶是开阔的天空，周围的环境似乎与过去一个月相继斩首两名美国记者的地点相同。44岁的海恩斯在被斩首前被迫宣读了一段文字，在这段文字中，他把自己遇害归咎于英国的领导人。
“I would like to declare that I hold you, David Cameron, entirely responsible for my execution,” he said. “You entered voluntarily into a coalition with the United States against the Islamic State.” He added: “Unfortunately, it is we the British public that in the end will pay the price for our Parliament’s selfish decisions.”
“我声明，你，戴维·卡梅伦，要对我被处决承担全部责任，”他说。“你主动与美国结成了反对伊斯兰国的联盟。”他接着说：“不幸的是，最终为议会的自私决定付出代价的，是我们英国民众。”
The video ends with the black-clad executioner, who was speaking in English with what sounded like a British accent, identifying their next victim as Alan Henning, another British citizen. SITE Intelligence, which tracks jihadist groups, said the executioner appeared to be the same man who killed the American hostages.
在视频的结尾，穿着黑衣的武装分子说，下一个受害者将是艾伦·亨宁(Alan Henning)。亨宁也是一名英国公民。这名操着英语的武装分子似乎有英国口音。追踪圣战组织的赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)称，看起来此人和杀害两名美国人质的武装分子是同一人。
President Obama, in a statement released Saturday, said the United States strongly condemned “the barbaric murder” of Mr. Haines. “We will work with the United Kingdom and a broad coalition of nations from the region and around the world to bring the perpetrators of this outrageous act to justice.”
美国总统奥巴马周六发表声明称，美国强烈谴责对海恩斯的“野蛮谋杀”。“我们将继续与英国以及该地区乃至全世界国家的广泛联盟合作，将这种暴行的实施者绳之以法。”
The beheading of Mr. Haines puts pressure on the government of Prime Minister Cameron of Britain, a member of a “core coalition” of nations announced as NATO leaders met in Wales this month and sought to devise a strategy to address the growing threat from ISIS, including plans to strengthen allies in Iraq and Syria and conduct airstrikes against the militants.
海恩斯遇害让英国首相卡梅伦的政府处在了压力之下。英国是北约领导人本月在威尔士的峰会上宣布组建的“核心联盟”的成员国之一。这次峰会旨在制定策略以应对ISIS日益加大的威胁，包括对在伊拉克和叙利亚的盟友提供支持，以及对极端分子实施空袭的计划。
Mr. Obama last week announced a major expansion of the military campaign against ISIS, including airstrikes against the group in Syria. The beheadings of the two Americans, James Foley, reported on Aug. 19, and Steven J. Sotloff, on Sept. 2, followed the start of a campaign of airstrikes against ISIS positions in Iraq.
奥巴马上周宣布，将扩大针对ISIS的军事行动，包括在叙利亚对该组织展开空袭。在针对ISIS在伊拉克据点的大规模空袭开始后，两名美国人——詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)和史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)——就遭到了斩首。他们遇害的消息分别于8月19日和9月2日被公布。
The group is currently holding Mr. Henning and another British citizen, as well as two other American aid workers. Their families have asked the news media not to disclose their names, after ISIS warned that the hostages would die if relatives made their identities public.
该组织目前扣押了亨宁和另一名英国公民，还有美国的两名救援人员。他们的家人要求新闻媒体不要公布其姓名，因为ISIS警告称，如果亲属们公开他们的身份，他们就会丧命。
The British government said it was trying to verify the video. Mr. Cameron later denounced the killing on Twitter: “The murder of David Haines is an act of pure evil. My heart goes out to his family who have shown extraordinary courage and fortitude.”
英国政府表示，他们正在努力证实视频的真伪。卡梅伦后来在Twitter上对英国人质遭杀害一事表示谴责：“杀害戴维·海恩斯属于邪恶行径。我的心与他的家人同在，他们展示出了非凡的勇气和毅力。”
“We will do everything in our power to hunt down these murderers and ensure they face justice, however long it takes."
“无论耗费多长时间，我们将竭尽所能追捕凶犯，确保将他们绳之以法。”
Britain and the United States are among the only nations in the world that have held to a hard-line, no-concessions policy when dealing with kidnappings by terrorist groups.
英国和美国是世界上少数面对恐怖组织绑架行径仍然坚持强硬、不妥协政策的国家。
Until earlier this year, ISIS was holding close to two dozen foreigners in the same jail where Mr. Haines was imprisoned, near the Syrian town of Raqqa. His European cellmates were released for ransom, according to one of the hostages held alongside him who was freed after his government paid a ransom. Mr. Haines, who had a military background, was kidnapped 19 months ago in northern Syria and was held alongside an Italian co-worker, Federico Motka.
直到今年早些时候，ISIS一直将大约20名外国人关押在叙利亚拉卡附近，也就是海恩斯所在的监狱。据一名同被绑架但在政府支付赎金后获释的人质透露，海恩斯的欧洲狱友在交付赎金后也被释放。19个月前，有军人背景的海恩斯在叙利亚北部被绑架，与来自意大利的同事费代里科·莫特卡(Federico Motka)一同被关押。
Both men worked for Acted, a French aid group, and had traveled to Syria during the country’s horrific civil war. Their fates diverged based on their countries’ policies: Mr. Motka was released in May, one of 15 Europeans released from the same ISIS-run jail for a ransom, according to a person familiar with the hostages’ detention and release.
两人是法国援助机构技术合作与发展援助组织(ACTED)的工作人员，在叙利亚爆发激烈内战期间前往该国。两人的命运因为各自国家的政策出现了不同：据了解人质关押及释放情况的人士透露，今年5月，15名被ISIS关押在同一监狱的欧洲人在缴纳赎金后获释，莫特卡就是其中之一。
Earlier this month, Mr. Cameron ruled out paying a ransom for Mr. Haines. “It’s a desperately difficult situation,” he told Sky News. “We don’t pay ransoms to terrorists when they kidnap our citizens.”
本月早些时候，卡梅伦排除了为海恩斯缴纳赎金的可能性。“这是一个极其艰难的局面，”他告诉天空新闻(Sky News)。“恐怖主义者绑架我们的公民时，我们不会缴纳赎金。”