The detective novel “The Cuckoo’s Calling” by Robert Galbraith — who was unmasked a few days ago as a pseudonym for J. K. Rowling of Harry Potter fame — doesn’t provide the reader with many clues to its author’s real identity. There are no wizards, witches or dementors in this novel; no magic or sorcery in its plot. Instead, the book is set in an all-Muggles London and features a disheveled, Columbo-esque detective named Cormoran Strike who takes on a case that plunges him into a posh world of supermodels, rock stars, movie producers and social-climbing wives.
罗伯特·加尔布雷思(Robert Galbraith)的侦探小说《布谷鸟的呼唤》(The Cuckoo’s Calling)几天前被发现是由《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)系列作者J·K·罗琳(J. K. Rowling)化名创作。小说并未向读者提供关于作者真实身份的更多信息。书中没有巫师、女巫或摄魂怪；情节里也没有魔法和巫术的痕迹。相反，这本书发生在麻瓜遍布的伦敦，主角是个不修边幅、科伦波(Columbo)式的侦探，名叫考莫伦·斯特莱克(Cormoran Strike)，他接下一桩案子，从而卷入一个由超级模特、摇滚明星、电影制作人和趋炎附势的名人妻子们组成的世界。
Still, there are aspects of the novel that might have made some readers wonder about Robert Galbraith’s background — at least from the jacket-flap description of him as a civilian security expert who previously worked with the Royal Military Police and its special investigations branch. After all, how many former military men are more adept writing about high fashion — describing a “clinging poison-green” Cavalli dress, vintage Ossie Clark confections and “fabby handbags” with custom-printed “detachable silk linings” — than they are about their hero’s war experiences in Afghanistan or his training in forensics?
不过，小说中仍然有些东西可能会让某些读者怀疑罗伯特·加尔布雷斯的背景，至少不像书封上的作者介绍中所说那样简单——介绍中说他是个保安专家，曾在皇家军警队及其特别调查部门工作。毕竟，有多少退伍军人会不写他们在阿富汗的英勇作战经历或者受训成为法医的经过，而是娴熟地描写高端时尚呢？——书中形容一件卡沃利长裙“有着粘稠毒药般的绿色”，还有Ossie Clark古董帽和带有定制印花的“可拆卸丝绸衬里”的“时髦手包”。
That said, Robert Galbraith has written a highly entertaining book that’s way more fun and way more involving than Ms. Rowling’s sluggish 2012 novel, “The Casual Vacancy.” Even better, he has introduced an appealing protagonist in Strike, who’s sure to be the star of many sequels to come. “The Cuckoo’s Calling” is not a novel that calls upon the wonderful gifts of inventiveness that Ms. Rowling used in “Harry Potter” to conjure a fully imagined world with its own rituals and rules. It isn’t anywhere as deep or ambitious as those earlier books — nor is it meant to be.
也就是说，罗伯特·加尔布雷斯写了一部非常有娱乐性的小说，比罗琳女士在2012年推出的缺乏活力的小说《偶发空缺》(The Casual Vacancy)更有趣，更引人入胜。更好的是，他还塑造了迷人的主人公斯特里克，肯定会成为其后许多续作的主角。《布谷鸟的呼唤》不像《哈利·波特》，需要罗琳发挥惊人的创造才华，虚构出一个想象中的世界，拥有自己的仪式和规则。这本书不如罗琳之前的作品那样深刻和雄心勃勃——它也没有这样的打算。
Whereas the Potter novels tackled good and evil and the loss of innocence, the big themes of mortality and free will, “The Cuckoo’s Calling” is concerned with decidedly more mundane matters, like midlife crises and class envy and the social anthropology of contemporary London. It sends up the moneyed world of the city’s glitterati, and explicates the pressures of celebrity and fame (something both Ms. Rowling and Harry Potter know quite a bit about).
哈利·波特系列的主题是善恶之争，以及纯真的丧失等关于道德与自由意志的重大主题；而《布谷鸟的呼唤》毫无疑问是关于更世俗的问题，比如中年危机、阶层妒忌和当代伦敦的社会人类学。它嘲讽这个城市拜金世界中的上层人士，揭示名人与名声带来的压力（罗琳和哈利·波特在某种程度上都对这种压力略有所知）。
In writing the Potter saga, Ms. Rowling seemed to have inhaled a vast array of literature (everything from the ancient myths and the Bible to Shakespeare, Tolkien, the Oz books, “Star Trek” and “Star Wars”) and made it her own. In “The Cuckoo’s Calling” Ms. Rowling — er, Mr. Galbraith — seems to have similarly studied the detective story genre and turned its assorted conventions into something that, if not exactly original, nonetheless showcases her satiric eye (most in evidence in the Potter books in her portraits of the bureaucrats and blowhards associated with the Ministry of Magic) and her instinctive storytelling talents.
在创作哈利·波特系列时，罗琳似乎借鉴了不少文学名著，把它们变成自己的东西，从古代神话到《圣经》，再到莎士比亚、托尔金、Oz国故事、《星际迷航》(Star Trek)和《星球大战》(Star Wars)。在《布谷鸟的呼唤》里，罗琳——哦，是加尔布雷斯先生——似乎同样研究了侦探小说，就算不完全是她的首创，也算是把这一类型中的常规变成了展示她的讽刺视角（这一点在《哈利·波特》系列中主要是通过对“魔法部”的官僚作风和自吹自擂中展现出来的）与讲故事天赋的工具。
The hero of “Cuckoo,” Strike (a lumbering bear of a man with “the high, bulging forehead, broad nose and thick brows of a young Beethoven who had taken to boxing”) is part old-school private eye — a hard-luck tough guy with an almost existential take on life. And he’s part British-style Sherlock, using logic and deduction, not physical intimidation, to put together the puzzle pieces of his case. We learn that Strike is the illegitimate son of a famous rock musician and his groupie girlfriend, that he joined the army after his mother’s death, and that he lost “half his leg” in Afghanistan. Recently, he has hit rock bottom: His private detective business has entered a fiscal death spiral;, he and his longtime girlfriend, Charlotte, have broken up; and he’s now living in his office on a camp bed and subsisting on noodle soup.
《布谷鸟》一书的主角斯特里克是个粗壮的男人，有着“高耸的前额，宽大的鼻子和浓密的眉毛，好像打拳击的青年贝多芬”，他是个作风有点老派的私家侦探，一个运气不佳的铁汉，对人生几乎抱有存在主义态度。他有点福尔摩斯的英式作风，在破案时使用逻辑和推理揭开谜团，而不是采取人身恐吓的方式。我们会读到，斯特里克是一个摇滚明星与“骨肉皮”女友的私生子，母亲死后他就参了军，在阿富汗失去了“半条腿”。最近，他的人生可谓跌落谷底：他的私家侦探生意进入了经济上的绝境，长期女友夏洛特和他分手了；他住在办公室里，睡行军床，吃汤面维生。
Two things immediately happen to change Strike’s luck and kick-start this novel: A smart, pretty office temp named Robin Ellacott shows up at his office to fill in as his assistant; and a seemingly cultivated but nervous new client by the name of John Bristow walks in the door and asks for help. Bristow’s case: Prove that the death of his adopted sister, the famous model Lula Landry, known as Cuckoo, was not a suicide, but a murder.
突如其来的两件事改变了斯特里克的运气，也为这部小说拉开了序幕：一个聪明漂亮，名叫罗宾·艾拉科特(Robin Ellacott)的临时秘书出现在他的办公室里，充当他的助手；约翰·布里斯托(John Bristow)，一个似乎很有教养但神经兮兮的客户走进他的办公室寻求帮助。布里斯托的委托是：证实与自己异父异母领养的姐妹——艺名“布谷鸟”的名模露拉·朗德里(Lula Landry)死于谋杀而非自杀。
In her Potter novels, Ms. Rowling learned how to simultaneously push her story forward while filling in missing details of her characters’ pasts and dropping a lot of clues (and red herrings) along the way. And here, Robert Galbraith manages something similar (and without using magical memory devices like the Pensieve). In fact, as Strike investigates how Lula came to fall to her death from the balcony of her fancy “five-star” Mayfair apartment building, we gradually come to learn a lot more about both Lula’s and Strike’s back stories and how their lives actually dovetail.
在《哈利·波特》小说里，罗琳学会了如何一边展开故事，一边补全人物过去经历的细节，同时又埋下大量线索（以及误导读者的情节）。在这本小说里，罗伯特·加尔布雷斯也设法做到同样的事（但是没有“冥想盆”之类魔法记忆道具帮忙）。露拉从她在梅菲尔的豪华“五星级”公寓阳台上堕楼而死，随着斯特里克的调查展开，我们渐渐了解到更多露拉的往事，乃至斯特里克的往事，以及他们的人生如何渐渐有了交集。
Lula initially seems like a sort of cartoon version of Kate Moss: a world famous, club-hopping, paparazzi-pursued model, who has served as a muse to high-profile, hipster designers and has been immortalized in pop songs. She has even been given a drug-using, rocker boyfriend named Evan Duffield, who bears more than a passing resemblance to Ms. Moss’s onetime beau Pete Doherty.
露拉的形象一开始有点像凯特·摩斯(Kate Moss)的卡通版：出没夜店的世界名模，身边总有大量狗仔围绕，是众多高端时尚设计师的缪斯，也是许多流行歌曲的主角。她甚至有个吸毒的摇滚明星男朋友，名叫埃文·达菲尔德(Evan Duffield)，和一度追求过摩斯的皮特·多赫蒂(Pete Doherty)很像。
Bit by bit, Strike reconstructs what Lula was doing in the last two days of her life, and as he does, a fuller portrait of her emerges. Along the way, witnesses and the chief suspects in her murder also evolve from familiar stock types — plucked from the tabloids, television soaps and Evelyn Waugh novels — into more fully formed characters, by turns tetchy, willful, manipulative, mercenary and mendacious.
渐渐地，斯特里克重现了露拉在人生最后两天所做的事，在这个过程中，她的形象开始变得更加丰满。此案的证人与主要嫌疑人们也开始从陈旧普通的类型（就是小报、肥皂剧和伊夫林·沃[Evelyn Waugh]小说里那种人物）演变为更加完整的人物，变成一个个脾气古怪、任性、工于心计、唯利是图或虚伪的人。
There’s her mysterious pal from rehab, Rochelle, and her designer friend Guy Somé, who featured her as a dark angel in a famous ad for his company, along with her model friend Ciara Porter. There’s her nasty and racist Uncle Tony; her ailing and drug-addled adoptive mother, Lady Yvette; and her money-grubbing birth mother, Marlene Higson. Then there are her apartment building neighbors: a famous American rapper by the name of Deeby Macc, an odious movie producer named Freddie Bestigui and his now-estranged wife, Tansy, who claims to have seen Lula’s fatal plunge.
登场的有露拉在疗养院里的神秘伙伴罗切尔(Rochelle)，以及她的设计师朋友盖伊·索梅(Guy Somé)。索梅在为公司制作的一则著名广告里把露拉和她的模特朋友西亚拉·波特(Ciara Porter)塑造成黑天使形象。她的托尼叔叔(Uncle Tony)是个下流的种族主义者；养母伊维特女士(Lady Yvette)身染重病、毒瘾缠身；生母玛琳娜·西格森(Marlene Higson)眼里只认钱。然后还有她公寓的邻居们：著名的美国说唱歌手迪比·马克(Deeby Macc)、讨厌的电影制作人弗莱迪·贝斯蒂戈伊(Freddie Bestigui)和正与他分居的妻子坦西(Tansy)，坦西说自己目睹了露拉跳楼。
“The Cuckoo’s Calling” is flawed by a “Psycho”-like explanatory ending — in which Strike explains how he put all the evidence together and identified Lula’s killer, but most of its narrative moves forward with propulsive suspense. More important, Strike and his now-permanent assistant, Robin (playing Robin to his Batman, Nora to his Nick, Salander to his Blomkvist), have become a team — a team whose further adventures the reader cannot wait to read.
《惊魂记》(Psycho)式的解释性结尾令《布谷鸟的呼唤》略为失色——斯特里克在最后阐述自己如何把所有的证据拼凑到一起，锁定了杀害露拉的凶手。但该书大部分叙事手法都带有推动情节的悬疑效果。更重要的是，斯特里克和罗宾确立了永久搭档关系（有点像罗宾之于蝙蝠侠、诺拉之于尼克、萨兰达之于布罗姆科韦斯特），他们今后的冒险肯定会令读者迫不及待。