“The Cuckoo’s Calling,” a debut detective novel published here in April, was not a huge commercial success, but it got great reviews.
侦探小说《布谷鸟的呼唤》(The Cuckoo’s Calling)于4月在伦敦出版，是本书作者的处女作。它虽未获得巨大的商业成功，却赢得了极高的评价。
Readers described it as complex, compelling and scintillating. They compared the author — a former military police investigator writing under the pseudonym Robert Galbraith — to P. D. James, Ruth Rendell and Kate Atkinson. They said the book seemed almost too assured and sophisticated to be a first novel.
读者称该书情节复杂、引人入胜，又妙趣横生。他们认为，作者——笔名为罗伯特·加尔布雷思(Robert Galbraith)的前军事警察调查员——可与P·D·詹姆斯(P. D. James)、露丝·伦德尔(Ruth Rendell)和凯特·阿特金森(Kate Atkinson)媲美。他们还说，作为第一本小说，这本书看上去几乎有点太自信、太老练。
As it happens, they were right. In one of the great publishing coups in recent years, “The Cuckoo’s Calling,” which has sold just 1,500 copies in Britain so far, turns out to have been written not by an ex-British Army officer, or by a new writer, or even by a man. Instead, its author is J. K. Rowling, whose Harry Potter novels have made her one of the world’s best-selling, and best-known, authors.
碰巧他们说对了。迄今在英国仅售出1500册的《布谷鸟的呼唤》成了近年来出版界最了不起的事件之一。事实上，它的作者既不是退伍的英国军官、也不是一位文学新秀，也不是男性。其实，它的作者是J·K·罗琳(J. K. Rowling)，她的《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)系列小说已让她成为了世界上最畅销、最知名的作家之一。
Ms. Rowling was unmasked by The Sunday Times of London, which, acting on an anonymous tip, embarked on a sleuthing mission of its own and published the result on Sunday. In the article, Ms. Rowling confessed to the ruse and spoke somewhat wistfully of her brief, happy foray into anonymous authorship.
伦敦的《星期日泰晤士报》(The Sunday Times)揭露了这本书的真实作者，该报记者根据一个匿名提示，开始了自己的调查，并在周日公布了结果。在报道中，罗琳承认了这个小骗局，并有些伤感地谈起自己以匿名身份出书的这次尝试——短暂却快乐。
“I had hoped to keep this secret a little longer, because being Robert Galbraith has been such a liberating experience,” she said in a statement. “It has been wonderful to publish without hype or expectation, and pure pleasure to get feedback under a different name.”
“我本希望能把这个秘密留得久一些，因为作为罗伯特·加尔布雷思是这样一段没有束缚的经历，”她在一份声明中称。“在没有炒作或期待的情况下出版一部作品，这感觉太美妙了，以一个不同的名字得到反馈，也是一种纯粹的快乐。”
Nicky Stonehill, a publicist for the author, said on Sunday that Mr. Galbraith and Ms. Rowling were indeed one and the same. “We can confirm it,” she said, “but we are not making any further statement.”
罗琳的一位公关工作人员尼基·斯通希尔(Nicky Stonehill)在周日表示，加尔布雷思和罗琳确实是同一个人。“我们能够确认这一点，”她说，“但我们现在不想作出任何进一步声明。”
After the mega-success of her Harry Potter series, Ms. Rowling wrote a novel for adults, “The Casual Vacancy,” which was published by Little, Brown & Company in September amid intense anticipation. A tale of class warfare and economic and social injustice in a small English village, it became an instant best seller and was reviewed everywhere, but the notices were hardly universally ecstatic.
在她的《哈利·波特》系列获得巨大成功之后，罗琳为成年人写了一部小说《偶发空缺》(The Casual Vacancy)，在万众瞩目之下，该书在去年9月由利特尔与布朗出版公司(Little, Brown & Company)出版，讲述了发生在一个英国小村的阶级战争和经济、社会方面的不公正。小说立刻登入畅销榜，各地也纷纷做出点评，但是反响也不全是赞美。
By contrast, “The Cuckoo’s Calling,” in which a war veteran turned private detective investigates the possibly suspicious suicide of a young model in London, made barely a ripple in the commercial world but received lavish praise. It was published by Mulholland Books, a Little, Brown imprint.
与之相比，《布谷鸟的呼唤》这本书在商业上几乎没有多少收获，但却收到了极大的赞誉。该书由利特尔与布朗旗下的穆赫兰出版社(Mulholland Books)出版，讲述了一名成为私家侦探的战争老兵，他在发现伦敦一名模特的自杀可能存在疑点之后，开始进行调查。
The story of how The Sunday Times uncovered the truth is an odd one that involves, as seems so often the case these days, Twitter. It started on Thursday, said Richard Brooks, the paper’s arts editor, after one of his colleagues happened to post a tweet mentioning that she had loved “The Cuckoo’s Calling,” and that it did not seem as if the book had been written by a novice.
《星期日泰晤士报》发现真相的过程纯属意外，但像如今的很多事一样，其中也有Twitter的功劳。该报的艺术版编辑理查德·布鲁克斯(Richard Brooks)说，调查始于上周四，当时他的一名同事碰巧在Twitter上写道，她非常喜欢《布谷鸟的呼唤》，这本书似乎不像是新手写的。
“After midnight she got a tweet back from an anonymous person saying it’s not a first-time novel — it was written by J. K. Rowling,” Mr. Brooks said in an interview. “So my colleague tweeted back and said, ‘How do you know for sure?’  ”
“午夜后，她收到一条回复，一个匿名者称，这不是一本处女作，是J·K·罗琳写的，”布鲁克斯在采访中说。“因此我的同事回复说，‘你怎么能确定？’”
The person replied, “I just know,” and then proceeded to delete all his (or her) tweets and to close down the Twitter account, Mr. Brooks said. “All traces of this person had been taken off, and we couldn’t find his name again.”
那人回答，“我就是知道，”然后便开始删除他的（或她的）所有Twitter帖子，然后关闭了这个账号，布鲁克斯说。“关于此人的任何蛛丝马迹都被消除得一干二净，我们没法再找到他的名字。”
It is, of course, possible that the anonymous tweets were part of a sneaky campaign by the publisher to get the story out. But The Sunday Times’s curiosity was piqued, and Mr. Brooks decided to work surreptitiously at first, not alerting Ms. Rowling’s publisher or agent for fear of having the possible news leak to a competitor.
当然，匿名的Twitter帖子也可能是出版商密谋采取的行动，是想把这件事捅出来。但这已足够激起《星期日泰晤士报》的兴趣，布鲁克斯决定先开始进行秘密调查，以免惊动罗琳的出版商或经纪人，担心他们有可能会把这个消息透露给《星期日泰晤士报》的竞争对手。
First he did some Internet detective work, finding many similarities between “The Casual Vacancy” and “The Cuckoo’s Calling.” Both books shared the same agent, publisher and editor in Britain, for example. It seemed particularly odd, he said, that the editor, David Shelley, would be in charge of both someone as important as J. K. Rowling — a very big job, indeed — and someone as seemingly unimportant as Robert Galbraith.
首先，他在网上进行了一些调查，发现《偶发空缺》和《布谷鸟的呼唤》之间有许多相似之处。举例说，这两本书在英国都用了同一家经纪人、出版商和同一位编辑。他说，对于编辑戴维·谢利(David Shelley)来说，他竟然会同时负责一位像J·K·罗琳这样知名的作家——确实是非常重要的工作——以及看来没什么知名度的罗伯特·加尔布雷思，这似乎格外蹊跷。
He then started reading the book. “I said, ‘Nobody who was in the Army and now works in civilian security could write a book as good as this,’ ” he said. Next, he sent copies of “The Cuckoo’s Calling,” “The Casual Vacancy” and the last Harry Potter novel, “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows,” to a pair of computer linguistic experts, who found significant similarities among them.
然后他开始阅读《布谷鸟的呼唤》。“我说，‘没有哪一位曾在军中服役而如今又在做民间安保工作的人可以写一本这样出色的书，’”他说。第二步，他将《布谷鸟的呼唤》、《偶发空缺》和最后一部《哈利·波特》小说《哈利·波特与死亡圣器》(Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows)寄给了两位计算机语言学专家，他们发现这三本书之间有一些极其重大的相似之处。
Mr. Brooks, too, noted that “The Cuckoo’s Calling” contained some Latin phrases, as the Harry Potter books do, and that it had scenes of drug taking, as “The Casual Vacancy” does.
布鲁克斯还指出，和哈利·波特系列书籍一样，《布谷鸟的呼唤》里使用了一些拉丁短语，且其中有着吸毒的场景，这点在《偶发空缺》中也有体现。
Late on Friday night, Mr. Brooks said, he decided “to go for it.”
布鲁克斯说，周五深夜，他决定开始“出击”。
“I e-mailed a blunt question: ‘I believe that Robert Galbraith is in fact J. K. Rowling, and will you please come back with a straightforward answer?’ ” he related. On Saturday morning, he said he received a response from a Rowling spokeswoman, who said that she had “decided to ’fess up.’ ”
“我通过电子邮件发出了一个直接的问题：‘我相信罗伯特·加尔布雷思实际上就是J·K·罗琳，你可以坦诚回答我吗？’”他回忆道。周六早上，他收到来自罗琳发言人的回复，她说罗琳已“决定要‘坦白交代’”。
Ms. Rowling now stands to make a lot of money from this new book, and so do the publishers. One interesting aspect of the whole story is how Little, Brown essentially colluded in keeping a secret that caused it, at least until now, to forgo possibly hundreds of thousands of dollars in revenue.
如今，罗琳很可能会从这本新书上大赚一笔，她的出版商也一样。这整件事上有趣的一点是，利特尔与布朗公司基本上协助保守了一个秘密，而至少迄今为止，这么做让它少赚了不少钱。
In a short statement released on Sunday, Reagan Arthur, Little, Brown’s publisher, said that the company was “pleased and proud” of “The Cuckoo’s Calling.” “A reprint of the book is under way and will carry a revised author biography, which reads ‘Robert Galbraith is a pseudonym for J. K. Rowling,’ ” she said. The company said it planned to publish a second book in what looks set to be a series by Mr. Galbraith, a k a Ms. Rowling, next summer.
在周日发布的一份简短声明中，利特尔与布朗的出版人丽根·阿瑟(Reagan Arthur)表示，公司对《布谷鸟的呼唤》感到“满意和骄傲。我们正在计划重印这本书，也会在其中加入一份修改过的作者介绍，‘罗伯特·加尔布雷思是J·K·罗琳的笔名’，”她说。该公司表示，计划在明年夏天出版加尔布雷思（又名罗琳）系列的第二本书.
Contacted on Sunday morning, several bookstores in London said they did not have copies of “The Cuckoo’s Calling” in stock. But they will soon. In just a few hours the book had already shot to No. 1 on the Amazon best-seller lists in both Britain and the United States.
周日上午，伦敦的几家书店都表示，他们库存中已没有《布谷鸟的呼唤》这本书，但很快会到货。仅仅几小时内，该书已一跃登上英国和美国亚马逊(Amazon)畅销榜的榜首。