By the end of last week, “The Cuckoo's Calling,” by the debut mystery novelist Robert Galbraith, was as good as dead.
截止到上周末，推理作家罗伯特·加尔布雷思(Robert Galbraith)的处女作《布谷鸟的呼唤》还毫无声息。
Bookstores with unsold copies on hand were contemplating shipping them back to the publisher. Reviews, while generally positive, had tapered off. According to Nielsen BookScan, which tracks about 85 percent of print sales, only about 500 copies had sold in the United States since the book went on sale in April.
书店正在考虑把手头未售出的书退还给出版商；书评虽然总体来说是正面的，但也越来越少。据尼尔森图书调查公司(Nielsen BookScan)统计，自4月上市以来，这本书在美国只卖出了500本（尼尔森公司跟踪调查市面上85%的图书销售情况）。
Then J.K. Rowling, easily one of the most bankable authors on the planet, admitted over the weekend to The Sunday Times of London that she — and not a male military veteran, as initial information from the publisher claimed — was the real author.
根据出版社最初提供的信息，该书作者是个男性退伍老兵。但是这个周末，全世界最卖座的作家之一J·K·罗琳(J.K. Rowling)对伦敦的《星期日泰晤士报》承认，自己才是这本书的真正作者。
That has left the publisher and bookstores with an entirely different problem: getting copies of what has suddenly become the hottest book of the summer into the hands of Rowling's impatient fans.
这给出版社和书店带来了新问题——怎样才能得到更多货源，把这本突然成为夏季最大热点的图书送到罗琳女士心急如焚的书迷们手中。
The publisher has also had to contend with the suspicion that Rowling's camp was secretly responsible for leaking her identity. Speculation was rampant in the publishing world that the revelation was part of a big publicity ploy to help sell books — so much so that Rowling's spokeswoman, Nicky Stonehill, was compelled to release a tightly worded statement denying it.
出版社还不得不出面应付这样的怀疑——是罗琳的团队故意悄悄把她是作者这个消息透露出来的。出版界的猜测甚嚣尘上，认为消息的泄露是大型售书宣传计划的一部分，罗琳的发言人尼基·斯通希尔(Nicky Stonehill)只得发表一篇措辞谨慎的声明进行反驳。
“We can confirm the story in The Sunday Times was correct, and it was not a leak or elaborate marketing campaign to boost sales,” she said in an email Tuesday. “We are not commenting any further.”
“我们可以证实《星期日泰晤士报》的报道是真实的，消息的泄露并不是刻意采取的市场营销策略，”周二她在一封电子邮件中说，“除此之外我们无可奉告。”
The story of “The Cuckoo's Calling” began to unravel last week when The Sunday Times of London received a tip via Twitter that it was Rowling, the author of the hugely popular Harry Potter series, who had written the book, and not Robert Galbraith, who was identified in publicity materials as a military veteran writing about his own experiences. Rowling confirmed the paper's suspicion, saying that writing the book under a pseudonym was a “liberating” act.
《布谷鸟的呼唤》的谜团从上周开始解开，当时《星期日泰晤士报》通过Twitter得到信息，声称这本书的作者其实是广受欢迎的《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)系列作者罗琳女士，而不是罗伯特·加尔布雷斯，宣传材料上说他的身份是一个退伍老兵，该书是根据他的亲身经历写成。罗琳女士证实了该报的猜测，说自己以笔名创作该书是一种“没有束缚”的行为。
“It has been wonderful to publish without hype or expectation, and pure pleasure to get feedback under a different name,” she said.
“在没有炒作或期待的情况下出版一部作品，这感觉太美妙了，以一个不同的名字得到反馈，也是一种纯粹的快乐，”她说。
Since then, Little, Brown & Co., her publisher, appears to have been scrambling to meet demand. Nicole Dewey, a spokeswoman for Little, Brown, said that the publisher began to print an additional 300,000 copies Monday, a huge undertaking that takes several days. Dewey said the books were expected to start shipping sometime this week. That isn't soon enough for many bookstores, which are locked in a fierce competition with Amazon, and with the e-book, which, compared with hardcovers, is inexpensive and instantly available. (The hardcover list price of “The Cuckoo's Calling” is $26; a Kindle or Nook edition is $9.99.)
此后，她的出版商利特尔与布朗出版公司(Little, Brown & Company)似乎在拼命满足读者需求。利特尔与布朗的发言人妮可·德威(Nicole Dewey)在周一说，出版社开始加印30万本书，这是一项大工程，需要好几天才能完成。她说这些书预计本周就可以开始发货。但这依旧不能满足许多书店的需求，因为它们与销售该书电子版的亚马逊之间的竞争非常激烈。与精装书相比，电子书价格便宜，而且马上就能得到（《布谷鸟的呼唤》精装本售价26美元；Kindle或Nook电子版售价9.99美元）。
In Austin, Texas, customers have stopped by the BookPeople store asking for the title, only to be told that it is out of stock. Forty copies are on order, said a bookseller there, Carolyn Tracy, adding that at least eight people had asked to reserve copies.
在得克萨斯州的奥斯汀，顾客来到读书人(BookPeople)书店找这本书，却被告知书已经售罄。店主卡洛琳·特雷西(Carolyn Tracy)说该店订了40本书还未到货，目前至少有8个人要求预订该书。
“What I think will be interesting is whether this is going to be a flash in the pan,” said Cathy Langer, the lead buyer at the Tattered Cover in Denver. “Are people going to want it now and then forget about it later?”
“这本书会不会成为昙花一现呢？我觉得这挺有意思的，”丹佛的“破烂封面” (Tattered Cover)书店首席买手凯西·朗格(Cathy Langer)说，“人们会不会现在忙着抢购它，过阵子又把它忘在一边呢？”
Gayle Shanks, an owner of Changing Hands bookstore in Tempe, Ariz., said that after learning that Rowling was the book's author, she quickly ordered 25 copies but was told not to expect them to arrive for at least 10 to 14 days.
盖尔·山科斯(Gayle Shanks)是亚利桑那州滕比市“易手”(Changing Hands)书店的老板，她说，知道罗琳是这本书的作者之后，她迅速订了25本书，但被告知至少要过10到14天才能到货。
“People who can't get it as a book are going to run and get it as an e-book,” Shanks said. “By the time the books are back, two weeks from now, most people are going to have read it on some device. That really concerns me.”
“买不到书的人会离开书店，去买电子书，”山科斯女士说，“两星期后，等书店的纸质书到货，大多数人已经在电子设备上看过了。这真的让我深感忧虑。”
Amazon, which sells more books than any other retailer in the country, is also out of stock of print books, telling customers online that “The Cuckoo's Calling” will ship in one to three weeks.
亚马逊在美国的图书销量超过任何零售商，它手头也没有《布谷鸟的呼唤》实体书存货。它在网站上通知消费者，该书将于一至三周内发货。
In the meantime, the book has risen to No. 1 on Amazon's best-seller list. And copies of the first edition of “The Cuckoo's Calling” in hardcover are floating around eBay at considerable markups: On Tuesday afternoon one copy in Britain had risen to more than $2,300, with 67 bids. Another copy in the United States was available for a more modest $41, with shipping costing $3.99.
与此同时，《布谷鸟的呼唤》迅速升到亚马逊畅销榜首位。在eBay网站上，该书的精装初版价格也飙升——星期二下午，在英国，一本《布谷鸟的呼唤》已经升到2300美元，有67个竞拍者。另一本在美国的书拍出了价格更为适中的41美元，另加运费3.99美元。
Robert McDonald, a bookseller at the Book Stall in Winnetka, Ill., said this act of literary deception was reminiscent of the days when Stephen King, yearning to step away temporarily from his own celebrity, wrote books pseudonymously as Richard Bachman.
伊利诺斯州温尼特卡市“书摊”(Book Stall)书店的老板罗伯特·麦克唐纳(Robert McDonald)说，这种文学上的隐瞒手段很像当年斯蒂芬·金(Stephen King)的做法——为了暂时逃避自己的盛名，他便以理查德·巴赫曼(Richard Bachman)为笔名创作。
Publishing executives harboring suspicions about the timing of the leak pointed to several bits of striking synchronicity. The paperback edition of “The Casual Vacancy,” Rowling's first adult novel, which was published last year, is to be released next week and will benefit from the attention paid to Rowling's new book. (“The Casual Vacancy” was panned by some critics but emerged a commercial success, selling more than 2.5 million copies.)
出版界的主管们都对这件事泄露出来的时机满怀疑窦，因为有几个惊人的巧合。首先，罗琳去年出版的第一部成人小说《偶发空缺》(The Casual Vacancy)即将于下周推出平装版，这本新书受到的关注显然对《偶发空缺》的销量有帮助（《偶发空缺》受到一些评论家的严厉批评，但获得了商业上的成功，卖出了250万册以上）。
In addition, the news that Rowling wrote “The Cuckoo's Calling” broke over the weekend, ensuring that the subsequent rush of sales would occur in the same calendar week — ideal for the purposes of best-seller lists, which typically collect numbers from Sunday through Saturday.
此外，罗琳是《布谷鸟的呼唤》作者一事是在周末爆出来的，确保了接下来的销售狂潮将会在同一周内发生——这对于该书在畅销书榜上的统计十分有利，因为一周畅销榜通常是以当周日到下周六为时间单位计算。
Exhibit A Books, a crime fiction imprint, tweeted Monday: “I wonder what evil spell was used to out JK Rowling at the real author behind The Cuckoo's Calling? Maybe publicitystuntiarmus?!”
犯罪小说出版公司“Exhibit A Books”周一在Twitter上说：“我很好奇他们用了什么邪恶咒语把J·K·罗琳召唤出来，成了《布谷鸟的呼唤》的真正作者，宣传噱头召唤咒？”
Some people involved with the publicity windup for “The Cuckoo's Calling” said they saw nothing amiss.
一些与《布谷鸟的呼唤》宣传活动相关的人士声称，他们不觉得有任何不妥之处。
Owen Laukkanen, an author asked to provide a blurb for the book, said he had no idea that Rowling was involved.
作家欧文·罗坎南(Owen Laukkanen)曾被要求为这本书写一则书封推荐语，他说自己当时根本不知道罗琳与此书有关。
“The book was such an unflinching portrayal of British celebrity culture,” he said in an interview. “It was clearly written by a talented writer. But I'm gobsmacked that it was J.K. Rowling.”
“这本书毫不留情地揭示了英国的名人文化，”他在采访中说，“显然是出自一位天才作家之手，但作者居然是J·K·罗琳，真是让我大吃一惊。”