The world is discovering LED lights, and for good reason. They last 25 times as long as regular bulbs, they use a fraction of the power, they don’t get as hot and they’re very rugged. They’re cropping up everywhere: in homes, flashlights, car headlights, flat-panel TV screens, movie lights and Christmas lights.
LED灯泡正渐渐崭露头角，理由很充分。这种灯泡的使用寿命是普通灯泡的25倍，耗电量只是普通灯泡的一个零头，它们不会那么烫，而且很结实。它们的身影随处可见：家居照明，手电筒，汽车前灯，平板电视屏幕，电影照明和圣诞彩灯。
And now, finally, projectors.
如今它终于可以用在投影仪上了。
Projectors are amazing these days. Most still have a regular old light bulb inside. A very, very bright one that gets very, very hot and costs very, very much to replace — maybe $300 or $400. And that’s after about 2,000 hours of use.
现在的投影仪真是棒极了。大多数投影仪内部安装的仍是普通老式灯泡。这种灯泡可以发出非常强烈的光亮，使用时会变得非常烫，而且更换起来异常昂贵，可能需要300甚至400美元。这是在大概使用了2000个小时之后。
If you could replace that hot, expensive bulb with LED lights, you’d use half as much power, so you’d be polluting less. Because it would need less cooling, your projector could be much smaller and lighter.
如果把这种容易发烫又昂贵的灯泡换成LED灯泡，你就可以省掉一半的用电量，而且更加环保。由于这种灯泡冷却需求较少，你的投影仪会变得更加轻便小巧。
Above all, you’d never have to replace the bulb. The LED projectors in this roundup are rated at 20,000 hours or more — at least 10 times the life of a regular bulb. That’s long enough for you to watch a different movie every night for 27 years, or the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy twice.
最重要的是你再也不用更换灯泡了。这类灯泡的使用寿命可长达20000小时以上，至少是普通灯泡寿命的十倍。这么长的使用寿命足够你每天晚上一部不同的电影看上27年，或者看两遍《魔戒》三部曲。
I tried out seven LED projectors priced at $1,000 or less. Each comes with carrying case and remote control. Each offers every conceivable input — VGA so you can plug in your laptop, HDMI for Blu-ray players and game consoles, USB and memory-card slots (so you can project PowerPoint files and slide shows and movies without even needing a computer). All produce a 1,280-by-800-pixel image. A few, with the purchase of a Wi-Fi adapter, can display videos and slides wirelessly from a phone, tablet or laptop.
我试过7款价格在1000美元或更低价位的LED投影仪。每台都配有便携箱和遥控器。各种输入接口应有尽有，VGA接口可连接笔记本电脑，HDMI可连接蓝光播放器和游戏机，USB和内存卡插槽让你无需电脑就可以投放PowerPoint文件、幻灯片和电影。这些投影仪投射出的分辨率都高达1280*800像素。有几款配上Wi-Fi适配器后便可无线播放手机、平板电脑或笔记本电脑中的视频和幻灯片。
These LED projectors tend to fall into two categories, mobile projectors and business projectors.
这些LED投影仪一般属于这两类：移动便携投影仪和商务投影仪。
Mobile projectors are tiny, tiny boxes; the smallest could be mistaken for a brownie. Then again, the power-cord brick is nearly a third the size of the projector.
移动便携投影仪非常小巧，最小的只有一块巧克力蛋糕那么大。不过附带的电源线适配器体积却将近投影仪机身的三分之一。
These models are cheap and plastic. There’s no height adjustment. The speaker inside is usually 2 watts, mono — awful for watching a movie. You’ll want to connect a real speaker.
这些都是廉价机型，机身是塑料的。没有高度调节功能。内置扬声器通常是2瓦单声道的，用来看电影效果会很糟糕，你需要接上外接扬声器。
The image from these mobile models is nothing like the huge, bright, even, crisp picture that a $1,200 traditional projector gives you. But for their size and cost, these projectors display a surprisingly big, bright image.
这些便携款投射出的影像跟一台1200美元的传统投影仪所投射出的明亮、均匀、清晰、巨大的图像自然无法相比。但相对于它们的体积和价格来说，这些投影仪投射的画面尺寸和亮度已经相当不错。
Here’s what stands out among the mobile LED projectors:
以下是几款相对抢眼一些的移动LED投影仪：
DELL M115 ($520) At about four inches square and 13 ounces, this 450-lumen model is the smallest and lightest projector in the roundup. You could cover it up with a hamburger.
DELL M115（520美元）该款450流明的投影仪大小约4平方英寸（约合25平方厘米），重量为13盎司（约合370克），是此类产品中最轻便小巧的一款，用一个汉堡就能整个盖住。
And yet this tiny, black plastic Dell is among the best mobile projectors. The picture is bright and the colors are true, especially in the dark. The buttons on the projector light up when you touch them, which is useful, but their labels are dark gray on black, and therefore pretty much impossible to read. The slot accommodates only Micro SD cards, not standard ones. And a remote is $25 extra (booooo!).
然而这个黑色塑料机身的小巧投影仪却具备绝佳的性能。其投放出的画面清晰明亮、色彩逼真，在黑暗环境中更是如此。机器上的按钮触摸时能够发亮，非常实用。但黑底上的深灰色按钮标识很难看清。卡槽只容纳Micro SD卡而非标准SD卡。而且一只遥控器要额外花费25美元（呸，下去吧！）
AAXA SHOWTIME 3D ($450) This 450-lumen projector offers cheap black plastic, inscrutable no-words menu system, no card slot, orangey skin tones and bursts of blotch in fast scene changes. Not impressed.
AAXA SHOWTIME 3D（450美元）这款450流明投影仪有着廉价的黑色塑料机身，难以捉摸无文字菜单系统。无卡槽，快速变换场景时画面会出现橙黄色调和阵阵斑点。不怎么样。
INFOCUS IN1144 ($540) It’s another small black box — very small — this time offering 500 lumens and a good picture. At 1.8 pounds, it’s got more than twice the heft of the Dell. The LED lasts 30,000 hours, the company says. A good package over all.
INFOCUS IN1144（540美元）又一款小巧的黑色机型，非常小，不同的是其亮度为500流明且画面质量出色。重量为1.8磅，是Dell那一款的两倍多。INFOCUS称其LED灯泡可使用30000小时。总的来说是款不错的投影仪。
ELMO BOXI ($630) Elmo (no relation to the red Muppet) is best known for its overhead projectors and cameras, like the ones from biology class in 1975.
ELMO BOXI（630美元）Elmo公司（和《芝麻街》中那个红色木偶没有关系）最知名的产品为吸顶式投影仪和摄像机，跟1975年的生物课上用的那种差不多。
This attractive, white 300-lumen projector is a super short-thrower. You can put it very close to the wall or screen (three feet) and get a surprisingly big image (50 inches).
这款外观迷人的白色300流明投影仪是个短距离选手，可以放在离墙壁或屏幕非常近（3英尺）的地方，投射出的图像大得让人吃惊（50英寸）。
Remarkably, Wi-Fi is built in; once you install the free iPhone or Android app, or Windows program, you can project images and Office files wirelessly.
值得一提的是，它内置了Wi-Fi，只要安装了免费的苹果、安卓或Windows软件，就可以无线投放图片或Office文件。
The second category, LED business projectors, gives you more of everything — weight, cost and size. But you also get more brightness, image quality and polish.
第二类投影仪为LED商务型投影仪。此类投影仪在重量、价格和尺寸上都要上一个层次，但是其亮度、画面质量和做工也更胜一筹。 
All three offer automatic keystone adjustment, where a built-in level sensor tells the projector how to make the image perfectly rectangular automatically.
三款LED商务型投影仪都具备自动梯形校正功能，内置水平传感器可使投影仪自动将图像调整为完美的矩形。
OPTOMA ML1000 ($1,000) A thousand bucks for a thousand lumens. It’s a standard rectangular box, but its cool design makes it look like a wedge. Weirdly, there are no buttons on the projector, only a laptop-style trackpad. You point and click your way through the menus. It works.
OPTOMA ML1000（1000美元）一千美元换来一千流明。这是个标准的长方形盒子，但是设计很酷，是它看起来更像是楔形。奇怪的是机身上没有按钮，只有一块笔记本电脑上的那种触摸板。用触摸、点击来操作菜单。好用。
The image is excellent. Like several of these projectors, this one is “3-D compatible,” which means very little; you’d have to buy both 3-D glasses and a “quad-buffered graphics card” for your PC. And then find something to watch in 3-D.
画面质量也很出色。和其他此类投影仪一样，该款式虽为“3-D兼容”型，但其实没有什么意义。你必须购买一副3-D眼镜并为电脑安装“四重缓冲显卡”才能使用此功能。而且你还得找到能用3-D观看的东西。
VIEWSONIC PLED-W500 ($600) This puppy looks almost exactly like a laptop (“small enough to fit in your suitcase,” the Web site cheerfully observes). It feels infinitely more businesslike and well designed than its mobile-projector rivals, right down to the super-convenient laser pointer that’s built into the remote. The buttons on the projector light up, there’s one gigabyte of built-in storage and there’s no power brick on the cord.
VIEWSONIC PLED-W500（600美元）这小家伙看起来几乎就是一台笔记本电脑（“小到可以装进公文包里”，该公司网站上这样得意的描述道）。和便携款投影仪对手们比起来，它的商务感更足，设计也更精良，遥控器内配置了超便捷的激光指示器。机身上的按钮能够发亮，配有1G内存，电源线上无适配器。
CASIO XJ-A141 ($1,000) There’s something fishy going on here. This projector creates a truly cinematic 2,500-lumen image, ridiculously bright and clear and true, even when the lights are on. How could this one model be so much better than all of its rivals?
CASIO XJ-A141（1000美元）这个让人有些难以相信了。这款投影仪竟然可以投射出2500流明的图像，真正电影般的效果。即使在有灯光的情况下，画面的明亮、清晰和逼真程度也令人惊叹。这款投影仪和其竞争对手比起来怎么可以如此的出色呢？
Casio says that it uses a hybrid laser/LED system that nobody else has, but you still get the longevity, energy, heat and reliability benefits of LED. Well, whatever. This baby rocks. It’s loaded with features — Eco mode, automatic keystone correction, password protection, auto-on when you plug it in — and it looks slim and fantastic.
卡西欧公司(CASIO)说它使用的是其独有的激光/LED混合系统，尽管如此，您同样可以享受到LED在使用寿命、节能、发热和稳定性方面的优势。这东西很厉害。它有很多特性——环保模式、自动梯形校正、密码保护、接电后自动启动——外观也精致而神气。
The Casio’s the clear winner among the pro models; the InFocus strikes the best image/size ratio; the Dell is a mighty mini. LED has always been a bright idea. It’s about time that lovely light reaches the big screen.
卡西欧的投影仪明显是专业款中的赢家，而InFocus则实现了图像与尺寸的最佳平衡。Dell投影仪是个功能强大的小不点。LED从来都是个聪明的想法。现在是时候让美妙的光亮照到大屏幕上了。