TOKYO — Remember when telephone handsets were curved to bring the microphone closer to your mouth? That began back in the days of rotary dials. The smartphones of today are flat, to accommodate touch screens. But that may be starting to change.
东京——还记得那种为了让话筒离嘴更近而做成弧形的电话手柄吗？在转盘拨号的年代就已经有了。今天的智能手机为了适应触摸屏，做成了平面。但是这一点可能会有变化。
With a nod to the telephones of the past and the technology of the future, LG Electronics of South Korea on Monday announced a new smartphone with a curved screen, the LG G Flex. The move came about a month after LG’s domestic rival, Samsung Electronics, introduced a phone called the Galaxy Round, which it billed as the first smartphone with a curved display. The two devices look quite different. Samsung’s phone wraps slightly around the vertical axis, like a shoehorn. The LG G Flex has a more pronounced curve along its horizontal axis, like a banana. For this reason, LG is proclaiming its new phone the world’s “first ‘real’ curved smartphone.’’
在周一的发布会上，韩国LG电子(LG Electronics)推出了一款使用弧面屏的智能手机G Flex，将旧时的电话和未来的科技同时融入其中。大约一个月前，LG在本国的竞争对手三星电子(Samsung Electronics)推出了Galaxy Round，并将之标榜为首款使用弧面屏的智能手机。两款设备的外观是迥异的。三星的手机是沿着纵向中轴线的曲面，就像一个鞋拔。LG G Flex的屏幕弯曲度更明显，而且是以横向轴线弯曲的，像一根香蕉。为此，LG宣称它的新手机是世界上“第一款‘真正的’曲面智能手机。”
The new devices show how smartphone makers are focusing more on factors like design and ergonomics to distinguish their products, as basic phone technology and features converge. In advertisements in South Korea, Samsung portrays the Galaxy Round as easier to hold because it matches the natural curve of the hand.
这些新款设备表明，在基本的手机技术和特性趋于一致的情况下，智能手机生产商正在更多地关注设计和人机工程方面的因素，从而让自己的产品显得不同。投放在韩国的广告中，三星称Galaxy Round是一种易于抓握的手机，因为它符合人手的天然曲线。
According to LG, the concave shape of the G Flex display, which resembles the screens of some of the newest high-end TVs, offers a better viewing angle for videos. By employing “a curvature arc that is optimized for the average face,” LG said in a statement, the G Flex improves the sound quality for voice calls. What is more, the company says, the phone fits more easily into the back pocket of your jeans.
G Flex的凹形显示屏有些类似一些最新推出的高端电视机，LG称这样的屏幕给视频观看提供了更好的角度。在一份声明中，LG说，“弯曲的弧度是针对一般人的面部进行优化的，”G Flex还改善了通话的声音质量。此外公司还说，这款手机放在牛仔裤后面的口袋里会更贴合。
Just don’t try sitting on it. Neither the G Flex nor the Galaxy Round has a flexible display. That innovation, analysts say, may be coming soon.
但是别坐上去。G Flex和Galaxy Round的屏幕都是没什么弹性的。分析人士说，弹性方面的创新可能很快就会出现。
LG said the G Flex would be available in South Korea next month, with other countries to follow, though it did not specify when or where the phone might be sold outside the domestic market.
LG说G Flex将于下月在韩国发售，而后其他国家陆续也会有，不过没有具体说明手机何时开始在国外发售。