College students increasingly view their time on campus as a hoop to jump through on their way to a job, yet many have no idea where they will land.
大学生们越来越多地将校园生涯视作步入职场之前的一个步骤，然而他们当中很多人并不知道自己会走向哪里。
While previous generations’ career tracks were simple and mostly linear, now entire industries expand and contract at alarming speed. In this new world, government statistics move too slowly to capture employment dynamics. What jobs are available in a particular occupation? What type of experiences do I need to get a job in those professions? What did people who have those jobs study in college?
过去数代人的职业轨迹很简单，大体上是一条直线，而现在，整个产业都会以惊人的速度扩张和收缩。在这个新世界里，政府的统计数据动作太慢，无法反应就业市场的变动。某种职业里，哪些岗位有空缺？在那些行业找到一份工作，需要有哪些经验？从事那些工作的人，在大学里都学过什么？
As we live more of our lives online and use social media to update friends, family and colleagues on our job moves, much of what we need to know about the changing labor market is crowd sourced in real time. And many of those digital breadcrumbs end up in LinkedIn profiles.
生活中随着我们越来越多地使用网络，利用社交媒体向亲朋好友更新我们的工作近况，我们所需要了解的就业市场信息，大部分都像“众包”一样，实时更新了出来。很多琐碎的数字信息，最后都发布在了LinkedIn的用户页面中。
The online professional networking site knows where most of its members — and there are more than 364 million of them worldwide — went to college, what they studied, where they work and what they say their skills are.
这个职业社交网站知道大部分用户的背景信息，包括他们念过的大学、专业、工作情况和技能，该网站在全球拥有超过3.64亿用户。
Over the last two years, this networking giant has been moving into the higher education industry, building an array of new tools for students in their search for a college and for a career. “A lot of decisions in life are not based on perfect data,” said Itamar Orgad, who leads LinkedIn’s higher education product team at its sprawling headquarters in Mountain View, Calif. “We are trying to optimize the data we have to better help the younger generation think about education and careers.”
在过去两年里，这个社交网络巨头扩张到了高等教育行业，并且打造了一系列新工具，帮助学生寻找合适的大学和职业。“生活中所做出的很多决定，都不是基于完美的数据做出的，”伊塔马尔·欧盖德(Itamar Orgad)说道。“我们正在努力优化手中的数据，从而更好地帮助年轻一代，规划他们的学业和职业。”欧盖德是LinkedIn高等教育产品组的负责人，LinkedIn庞大的总部位于加州山景市。
The interrelated search engines allow anyone to essentially reverse-engineer career paths of LinkedIn members by navigating the connections between their majors, schools and careers. While only as accurate as the profiles, the results are nonetheless addictive if you’re interested in what people ended up doing with their English literature degree or where they worked before landing a great job at Google. Dive deep into profiles for details about members’ lives, their skill sets, and how they are connected to other companies and people.
使用各种相互关联的搜索工具，任何人实际上都可以对LinkedIn用户的职业轨迹进行“反向工程”，只需要理清他们就读的专业、学校与职业轨迹的关系。尽管准确性取决于个人介绍页面上的信息，但是如果你感兴趣的问题是读英语文学的人最终从事了什么职业，或者人们在谷歌(Google)找到好工作之前都做过什么工作，那么这些搜索结果仍然很有吸引力。更深入地挖掘用户的个人页面，还可以了解关于他们生活的信息、职业技能，以及与公司和其他人之间的联系。
Somewhat creepy? Perhaps. Useful to figuring out a career path? Maybe, although no two people are alike. Still, each click essentially draws a picture of the overlapping pathways that people do follow through their careers.
这听起来是不是有点吓人？或许是的。对理清职业道路有用吗？虽然没有两个人的情况是相同的，但或许还是有用的。每点击一次用户资料，实际上就会看出人们职业道路中的相似之处。
The various search tools on linkedin.com/edu are part of LinkedIn’s strategy to attract younger users, beginning in high school. In 2013, it lowered the required age of participants to 14 from 18; today, students are the network’s fastest-growing segment of users.
LinkedIn采取策略吸引年轻用户，linkedin.com/edu提供的各种搜索工具就是其中的一部分，这些用户最年轻的还在读中学。2013年，该网站把用户的年龄限制从18岁下调到了14岁。今天，学生成为了该网站增长最快的用户群。
A handful of campuses have now partnered with LinkedIn to encourage students to use the site. Last spring at the University of California, Davis, representatives helped students build their profiles and a campus photographer took head shots for them to use online. Colleges themselves are using the service to find out where their alumni work.
为了鼓励学生使用该网站，一些大学也成为了LinkedIn的合作伙伴。今年春季在加州大学戴维斯分校(University of California, Davis)，该网站的代表帮助学生们创建了自己的用户资料，学校的摄影师也为他们拍摄了用户资料的大头照。另外，各大学也正在利用LinkedIn的服务，查询各自校友的工作情况。
Of course, the promise of big data guiding career paths has its downside. Going to college has always been about exploration, an openness to serendipity that leads to majors and careers that students never considered before discovering a great class or landing an interesting internship. Following a trail suggested by data on other people’s careers edits out the personal successes that come from carving out one’s own way.
当然，大数据在引导职业规划方面也存在缺陷。上大学终究是一种探索，对意外收获的接纳，能够引导学生走向之前从未考虑过的专业和职业，然后挖掘出一门很棒的课程或是找到一份有趣的实习工作。LinkedIn的数据都是建立在他人职业信息的基础之上，如果听从这些数据的建议，那么个性化的成功就会被抹杀，而这种成功是从自主的职业开拓中实现的。