If you’ve ever attended a local business networking breakfast in hopes of making new contacts or finding a new job, you’ll be excused for wondering why you were there.
如果你曾经因为希望结识新人或者找到新工作而去参加过当地的商务人际网络早餐会，要是你后来奇怪自己到底为什么会去那里，那你还有救。
But there are alternatives to chatting with a dentist and a criminal lawyer and a few other people unrelated to your line of work (that is, unless you are a dentist or a lawyer).
但除了和牙医、刑事律师以及其他一些与你的工作领域无关的人聊天之外，你还有其他选择。（除非你本人就是一位牙医或者律师。）
LinkedIn, the networking site for professionals, has become a vast business gathering place. With more than 259 million members in over 200 countries, LinkedIn offers users, most of whom pay nothing for the service, a chance to hone and increase their contacts. Users can also limit their connections to others who can best help them professionally.
职业社交网站LinkedIn已经成为一个巨大的商务聚集地。在超过200个国家拥有2.59亿会员的LinkedIn向用户提供磨炼商业技巧与扩展人脉的机会，而其中绝大多数人都是免费享受这些服务的。用户们也可以限制他们与他人之间的联系，只接触能在专业方面最好地帮助到他们的人。
It is, essentially, the networking breakfast moved into a virtual world, and available virtually to the entire world.
从本质上来说，这就是一个转移到虚拟世界中的人际关系网络早餐会，而且向全世界开放。
“People need resources to find a job and contribute to their community,” said LinkedIn’s co-founder, Allen Blue. “We want to create an economic opportunity for every professional.”
“人们需要资源来找工作以及回馈社区，”LinkedIn的联合创始人艾伦·布鲁(Allen Blue)说，“我们想要为每一位职场人士创造一个经济实惠的机会。”
But that promise won’t mean much if the site is not used correctly. Failing to keep a LinkedIn profile updated, ignoring connection requests or connecting with the wrong people can make the site as pointless as attending that local business breakfast.
但是如果使用这个网站的方法不正确的话，这个承诺并没有多大意义。没有保持LinkedIn个人资料的更新，忽略加为好友的申请或者与错误的人保持联系，都能让这个网站像本地商务早餐会一样没有用。
First, the basics: LinkedIn allows users to create a compelling text-and-multimedia narrative of their life and work. It can be updated at will, can be any length and it will often pop up in a Web search of the user’s name. “This is the next-generation résumé,” Mr. Blue said.
首先，基本的使用原则是：LinkedIn允许用户使用文本与多媒体相结合的方式生动地描述他们的人生与工作。它可以随意修改，长度不限，而且如果在网络上搜索某位用户的名字，它会出现在显眼处。“这是新一代的简历，”布鲁说。
Once you sign up for the service, LinkedIn guides you through the process of creating a profile. Write an extensive one that speaks to your strengths, skills and experience. Add multimedia, such as slide presentations and links to examples of your work.
一旦你在网站上注册，LinkedIn会全程指导你创建个人主页。写一段长文字，介绍你的优势、技能以及经验。加入多媒体元素，比如说幻灯片演示，以及指向你所完成的工作范例的超链接。
Use the headline space (right under your name) to create a compelling statement about yourself. Instead of “third assistant stock clerk,” be creative. “Inventory manager with over 20 years’ experience” will generate more views.
利用标题的空间（在你名字的正下方）来创建一个引人注意的自我陈述。不要写“仓库管理员第三助理”，来点创意，“拥有20年经验的库管经理”将会得到更多的点击。
As Ted Prodromou, a San Francisco consultant and author of a book on how to use LinkedIn, says, “What would you type in, to find you?”
泰德·普罗德罗姆(Ted Prodromou)是一位旧金山的咨询顾问，写有一本如何使用LinkedIn的指南书，他说：“如果要找到自己，你会输入什么搜索信息？”
Mr. Prodromou also recommends looking at profiles of people who work in similar fields and appear to be successful in attracting contacts, and then use similar keywords. “There’s nothing wrong with reverse-engineering,” he said.
普罗德罗姆也推荐大家多看看那些与自己在类似领域工作并且在吸引人关注方面非常成功的人士的个人主页，然后使用相似的关键词。“做一些逆向推导没有什么不对，”他说。
Add a photo, preferably a professional one. According to LinkedIn, a photo will increase by 11 times the likelihood that recruiters will click on your name. And if you list more than one professional position, you’ll increase your visibility 12 times.
加入一张照片，最好是穿职业正装的。根据LinkedIn提供的信息，一张照片会将招聘者点击你名字的可能性提高11倍。如果列出超过一个的职业岗位，你将把自己的可见度提高12倍。
LinkedIn will automatically let all your contacts know every time you change your profile. That means colleagues will be automatically informed when you change jobs or add some additional experiences. Unfortunately, your colleagues will also be told that you’ve taken a new job even if you simply changed the title of your existing one.
每次你修改自己的资料，LinkedIn将自动通知你所有的联系人。这意味着，如果你换了工作或者增添了一些额外的工作经验，你的同事将自动得到通知。不幸的是，如果你只是简单地修改你现有岗位的名称，你的同事仍然会被告知你得到了一份新工作。
To avoid embarrassing congratulatory emails for something you haven’t done, turn off those notification settings before you post your profile. To do so, hover your cursor over your picture in the upper right. Then click “Review,” next to “Privacy and Settings.”
要想避免为某些你并没有做的事而收到令人尴尬的恭喜邮件，在你上传资料之前，关掉那些通知设置。为此，请把光标移到你照片的右上角，点击“查看”，再接下去是“隐私与设置”。
On the “Profile” tab, you can turn off these “activity broadcasts” or decide who should see them if you want to leave them on. This is also where you can choose to let others know you have viewed their profile (or prefer to be anonymous), determine how much of your profile strangers can see, automatically send profile updates to your Twitter account and other options.
在“个人资料”那里，你可以关闭这些“活动通知”，或者当你有想要保留的人选时，你可以决定谁可以继续看到它们。你也可以在那里选择是否让他人知道你查看了他们的资料（或者你更倾向于匿名浏览），决定陌生人可以看到你资料的哪些部分，自动将你的资料更新发送到你的Twitter账号以及其他选项。
To pique the interest of recruiters, keep your profile up to date. Add new accomplishments and suggest news articles for others to read in the “Share an Update” field at the top of your home page.
要想激起招聘人员的兴趣，请将你的个人资料保持在最新状态。在你个人主页上方的“分享更新”这一部分加入新的个人成就，以及建议他人阅读的新闻文章。
Don’t accept every invitation to join someone’s network of contacts. The point of LinkedIn, according to Mr. Blue, is not to amass the greatest number of contacts, but to connect with those you know and trust, who then can introduce you to others you may wish to meet.
不要对加入他人人际关系网络的邀请来者不拒。布鲁表示，LinkedIn的精华所在，不是积累最多的联系人数量，而是与那些你认识并且信任的人联系，他们可以把你介绍给其他你可能想要见的人认识。
But if you do receive an invitation to connect from a stranger, you may want to use it to your advantage. Jasmine Sandler, a New York-based owner of Agent-cy, an online marketing company, suggests you reach out to that person, schedule a phone call and see if there’s a reason to create a professional relationship.
但是如果你真的收到了来自陌生人的联系邀请，你可能想要让它为你所用。在纽约发展的贾丝敏·桑德勒(Jasmine Sandler)是在线商务网站Agent-cy老板，她建议大家联系一下那位陌生人，安排一次电话接触，来看看是不是有必要建立职业上的往来。
Another way to increase your stature is to join interest groups. You’ll find them by searching for names and key words in the search bar at the top of the screen. Once you participate in a group, you can offer advice, contacts and news articles to group members, many of whom are likely to share your interests and career goals.
另外一个提高你声望的方法，是加入兴趣小组。你可以通过在屏幕上方的搜索栏中查找名字与关键词找到它们。一旦你参加了一个小组，你可以向小组成员提供建议、联系人以及新闻文章，他们中的很多人都愿意与你分享兴趣爱好以及职业目标。
Join discussion groups that focus on particular companies at which you might like to work. If a job opens up, you’ll be able to call upon company executives that you’ve become familiar with in the group.
参加关注你所想要加入的特定公司的讨论小组。如果有一个职位公开招人，你可以直接求助在这个小组里已经混熟的公司管理层。
By commenting in groups, others will send your comments to a network of which you may not be a part, and your name recognition will spread.
在小组中发表评论的话，其他人会把你的评论分享到那些你也许并不是其中一员的社交网络中，你名字的认知度将得到提升。
The strategy, according to Mr. Prodromou, is to help others, and by so doing, more people will pay attention to you.
普罗德罗姆所提供的战略方法，则是帮助其他人，这样一来，更多的人可以关注你。
One source of attention you may not want, however, is a relatively new LinkedIn feature called Endorsements. LinkedIn culls profiles and then suggests to your first-level contacts (those to whom you have directly linked) that they endorse you for skills LinkedIn’s algorithms think you may have.
LinkedIn近期推出了一项叫“担保”的新功能，不过这种关注你也许并不想要得到。LinkedIn甄选用户的个人资料，然后向你的第一级别联系人（那些与你有直接联络的人）建议，请他们为在LinkedIn运算方法推断之下你可能会拥有的技能提供担保。
Unfortunately, those suggestions can be inaccurate. For example, television engineer Mark Schubin once received an endorsement for his voice-over work, a skill he does not have and work he has never done.
可惜的是，这些建议可能不够精确。比如说，电视工程师马克·舒宾(Mark Schubin)曾经收到一个配音工作的担保，他从来没有做过这份工作，也没有这一项技能。
While you can refuse any endorsement and not list endorsements for skills you no longer wish to promote, Mr. Schubin and others in the “Stop Endorsements” LinkedIn group don’t like the fact that their contacts will assume they have skills and jobs that they actually don’t.
你可以拒绝所有的担保，也可以撤消你不再想要推广的技能的担保，但舒宾和其他“停止担保功能”LinkedIn小组的成员都不喜欢这个事实：他们的联系人会认为他们拥有某些技能和工作，而事实上他们并没有。
“Turn off endorsements,” Mr. Prodromou said. “They don’t add any value. I think they’ll go away.”
“关掉担保功能，”普罗德罗姆说，“它们没有带来什么价值。我觉得它们可以消失了。”
Do these promotional strategies work?
这些推广的战略真的会奏效吗？
Several months ago, Mr. Prodromou started spending 30 minutes a day posting and updating on LinkedIn. He saw a 140 percent increase in people viewing his profile in the first 10 days and traffic to his personal website grew 400 percent. Three times as many people reached out to him for help and he picked up two new clients.
几个月以前，普罗德罗姆开始每天都花30分钟在LinkedIn上发帖以及更新状态。他发现查看他资料的人在前10天上涨了140%，而他个人网站的点击量则增长了400%。联系他寻求帮助的人数是以前的3倍，他从中挑选到了两位新客户。
Ms. Sandler spends several minutes a day posting on LinkedIn.
桑德勒同样每天都花几分钟在LinkedIn发帖。
“People find me on LinkedIn,” said Ms. Sandler, who gets the bulk of the clients for her marketing company from activity there. “I open the site every morning.”
“人们在LinkedIn上可以找到我，”桑德勒说，她在那里的活动中为她的市场推广公司找到了许多客户，“我每天大清早就会打开这个网站。”