Now that the dust has settled from the Met Gala, with all the excitement over Kylie Jenner’s bathroom selfie and Rihanna’s body-swallowing Comme des Garçons florals, it is worth pausing to consider a red carpet moment most people missed: the entrance of Joe Gebbia, co-founder and chief product officer of Airbnb, with Yeonmi Park, a North Korean refugee and international refugee activist.
现在大都会艺术博物馆慈善舞会(Met Gala)尘埃落定了，除了凯莉·詹娜(Kylie Jenner) 在卫生间的自拍，蕾哈娜(Rihanna)那件仿佛吞咽了身体的Comme des Garçons礼服引起骚动外，大部分人错过的红地毯时刻也值得停下来关注一下：Airbnb的共同创始人兼首席产品官乔·杰比亚(Joe Gebbia)与朝鲜难民兼国际难民活动家朴延美(Yeonmi Park)一起进场。
“Refugees and human rights are not really part of our pop culture conversation,” said Ms. Park, who was born in Hyesan, North Korea, in 1993 and fled the country with her family when she was 13. Now living in the United States, Ms. Park, 23, said she “somehow wanted to connect those things” using the industry’s language, which is fashion.
“难民和人权并不真的是我们流行文化对话的一部分，”1993年出生于朝鲜惠山市、13岁时和家人逃离了朝鲜的朴女士表示，她想“以某种方式想连接这些东西”，用这个行业的语言，也就是时尚。
So when Mr. Gebbia — who has spearheaded Airbnb social innovation projects like the Disaster Response Program, which provides temporary housing for displaced people and for relief workers during emergencies — invited her to attend the annual fund-raiser for the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute, she accepted.
因此，当杰比亚先生——这个在Airbnb率先推动灾害应急计划(Disaster Response Program)，在紧急情况下为流离失所者提供临时住房和救援人员的社会创新项目的人——邀请她出席大都会艺术博物馆服装学院年度筹款活动时，她接受了。
Both saw Monday evening as an opportunity to gain access to a powerful part of the Hollywood/style nexus — and potentially lobby them for the cause. They suited up in a Balenciaga blazer and Haider Ackermann pants (for him) and a spring 2017 couture Alexis Mabille gown, courtesy of the stylist Renelou Padora (for her), and off they went to celebrate the museum’s exhibition, “Art of the In-Between,” on Rei Kawakubo’s designs for Comme des Garçons.
两人都认为周一晚上是接触好莱坞/时尚关系网的一个重要部分的机会，有可能可以游说他们支持这项事业。他穿上巴黎世家(Balenciaga)的上衣和海德·艾克曼(Haider Ackermann)的裤子；她穿上造型师莉娜卢·帕多拉(Renelou Padora)提供的艾历克西斯·马毕(Alexis Mabille)的2017春季高级定制长裙。然后他们出发去庆祝该博物馆关于川久保玲(Rei Kawakubo)为Comme des Garçons所做的设计的展览“Art of the In-Between”。
It was the first Met Gala for both. Ms. Park, who had never seen a fashion magazine in North Korea and was “told what we could and could not wear by the government,” called the experience “difficult to comprehend.”
这是两人第一次参加Met Gala。朴延美在朝鲜从没看过一本时尚杂志，“政府决定我们能穿什么，不能穿什么”。她说这次的经历“简直难以置信”。
Reading about it afterward, she said, “I keep seeing who else was there, and thinking, ‘Really, I was there?’”
她读了相关报道后说：“我不断看到还有谁在那里，心想，‘真的吗，当时我也在那里？’”
Ms. Park, who is highly regarded by activists after an array of international speaking engagements, including a TEDx talk and speeches at the Oslo Freedom Forum and One Young World Summit, said she hoped her presence at the gala would, in itself, be a statement and “bring other things to the table” on one of fashion’s most important evenings.
朴延美在参加一系列国际演讲活动后获得活动人士的高度评价，其中包括TEDx演讲以及在奥斯陆自由论坛(Oslo Freedom Forum)和世界青年领袖峰会(One Young World Summit)上的演讲。她表示，她希望自己出席Met Gala本身能成为一项宣言，在时尚界最重要的一个晚上“把其他问题提到议程上来”。
The pair largely shied away from the ordinary protocols of the evening, including public relations blasts announcing their attendance and of-the-minute social media documentation. But they said they used the cocktail period and the seated dinner to talk with other guests about the issue of displaced people. Among those attendees were Wendi Murdoch; Marissa Mayer, the president and chief executive of Yahoo; Anne Wojcicki, an entrepreneur; Joshua Kushner, a well-known investor; Kelly Slater, the professional surfer turned sustainable designer; and Karlie Kloss, an activist supermodel.
两人没有采用这个夜晚的常规做法，没有对自己的出席进行公关宣传，也没有在社交媒体上进行实时报道。不过他们说，他们利用鸡尾酒时间和就座晚宴与其他宾客谈论流离失所者的问题。包括邓文迪(Wendi Murdoch)；雅虎总裁兼首席执行官玛丽莎‧梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)；企业家安妮·沃西基(Anne Wojcicki)；著名投资人约书亚·库什纳(Joshua Kushner)；专业冲浪运动员出身的可持续发展设计师凯利·斯莱特(Kelly Slater)；以及超模兼活动人士卡莉·克劳斯(Karlie Kloss)。
According to Mr. Gebbia, who says he “loves fashion, beauty, design and culture above all else,” the idea was “about using that promenade in a meaningful way.” And no one complained, they noted.
杰比亚表示，他“对时尚、美丽、设计和文化的喜爱超过其他一切”，他们这样做是“为了以有意义的方式利用这场舞会”。他们指出，没有人对此有任何抱怨。
“I couldn’t have come to my very first Met Gala in any other way,” Mr. Gebbia said. “Nor could I have found a better way better to honor Rei Kawakubo’s core principles of constant risk-taking and venturing into the unknown in her journey toward artistic breakthrough.”
“我不可能以其他任何方式参加我的第一次Met Gala，”杰比亚说，“我也不可能找到更好的方式来致敬川久保玲的核心原则，那就是不断冒险，进入未知领域，实现艺术突破。”
“It’s only our most unorthodox heroes that give us the confidence to step outside our own comfort zones.”
“只有最不正统的英雄才能让我们有信心走出自己的舒适区。”