Among the 298 people aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 were a renowned AIDS researcher, a Dutch senator and an Australian novelist. Malaysian authorities have reported 193 Dutch victims, including an American-dutch citizen; 43 Malaysians, including the crew; and 27 Australians, 12 Indonesians, 10 Britons, including a British-South African citizen, four Belgians, four Germans, three Filipinos, one Canadian and one New Zealander.
马来西亚航空公司MH17航班上的298人中，包括一名知名的艾滋病研究专家、一名荷兰议员和一名澳大利亚小说家。马来西亚当局报告，遇难者中有193名荷兰公民，其中一人持有美国及荷兰双重国籍；包括机组人员在内的43名马来西亚人；27名澳大利亚人；12名印度尼西亚人；10名英国人，其中一人持英国及南非双重国籍；4名比利时人、4名德国人、3名菲律宾人、1名加拿大人和1名新西兰人。
Following are profiles of a few of the victims who have been identified. 
以下是已确认身份的几名遇难者的简介：
Karlijn Keijzer, 25
Karlijn Keijzer，25岁
Student - Netherlands
学生，荷兰
To those who knew her at Indiana University, Ms. Keijzer seemed to excel at everything she did, from her work as a doctoral student in chemistry to her leadership on the university’s rowing team. Before Ms. Keijzer left on vacation, she was working on a research project that had the potential to help cancer patients and people suffering from Alzheimer’s disease, her academic adviser said.
对于印第安纳大学(Indiana University)所有认识Keijzer的人来说，不管是身为化学专业的博士生，还是学校赛艇队的领队，她在各方面似乎都能做到出类拔萃。Keijzer离校前去度假之前，正在从事一个研究项目，她的导师说，该项目可能会对癌症患者和患有阿尔茨海默病的人起到帮助。
Joep Lange, 59
Joep Lange，59岁
AIDS Researcher - Netherlands
艾滋病研究员，荷兰
Dr. Lange, a renowned AIDS researcher from the Netherlands, was traveling aboard the Malaysia Airlines jet with his partner, Jacqueline van Tongeren, to the International AIDS Conference in Melbourne, Australia. Dr. Lange had worked in the field of infectious diseases since the early years of the AIDS epidemic and had focused his efforts on making treatments cheaper in poor nations in Asia and Africa. 
Lange博士是来自荷兰的知名艾滋病研究专家，他和搭档Jacqueline van Tongeren搭乘马航班机出差，到澳大利亚墨尔本参加国际艾滋病大会(International AIDS Conference)。Lange博士自艾滋病流行早期就开始从事这种传染病的研究工作，他工作的关注点是降低亚洲及非洲贫穷国家的治疗费用。
Pim de Kuijer, 32
Pim de Kuijer，32岁
AIDS Activist - Netherlands
艾滋病活动人士，荷兰
Mr. de Kuijer, 32, a former European Commission diplomat, was also en route to the AIDS conference. A couple of years ago, he famously came out as being gay during a stand-up comedy routine in a well-known cafe in Amsterdam. After that experience, he committed himself to activism of all sorts.
32岁的de Kuijer曾是欧盟委员会(European Commission)外交官，他乘坐这次航班也是为了参加艾滋病大会。几年前，他在阿姆斯特丹一家著名的咖啡馆里进行脱口秀表演时，宣布了自己是同性恋。在那次的经历后，他就开始投身于各种活动。
Jacqueline van Tongeren, 64
Jacqueline van Tongeren，64岁
Communications Director - Netherlands
沟通主管，荷兰
Ms. van Tongeren's interest in H.I.V. began in the 1980s, when she was a nurse for patients with the virus. More recently, she was the communications director at the Amsterdam Institute for Global Health and Development and a member of the board of Art AIDS, which invites artists to produce work dealing with AIDS. 
从上世纪80年代开始，她就对艾滋病问题产生了兴趣，她当时是一名护士，负责照护艾滋病患者。之后，她担任了阿姆斯特丹全球健康和发展研究所(Amsterdam Institute for Global Health and Development)的沟通主管，也是Art AIDS的董事会成员。后者邀请艺术家创造以对抗艾滋病为主题的作品。
Willem Witteveen, 62; Lidwien Heerkens; Marit
Willem Witteveen，62岁；Lidwien Heerkens；Marit
Senator - Netherlands
参议员，荷兰
Mr. Witteveen, a Dutch senator, legal scholar and author, was on board with his wife, Lidwien Heerkens, and their daughter Marit. Their son, Freek, was not on the plane. Mr. Witteveen had worked since 1990 as a law school professor at Tilburg University.
Witteveen先生不仅是荷兰参议员，还是一位法学学者和作家，他的妻子Lidwien Heerkens和女儿Marit与他一同登机。他的儿子Freek没有乘坐此次航班。Witteveen从1990年开始在荷兰蒂尔堡大学法学院担任教授至今。
Martine de Schutter
Martine de Schutter
AIDS Activist - Netherlands
艾滋病活动人士，荷兰
On her LinkedIn page, Ms. de Schutter described herself as a cultural anthropologist specializing in gender and sexual health, including H.I.V. and AIDS.
在她的LinkIn页面上，de Schutter将自己描述为一位专攻性别与性健康，包括艾滋病在内的文化人类学家。
Cor Schilder, 33 and Neeltje Tol, 30
Cor Schilder，33岁；Neeltje Tol，30岁
Florists - Netherlands
花店店主，荷兰
Mr. Schilder and his girlfriend, Ms. Tol, owners of a flower shop in the northern town of Volendam, were going on vacation to Bali, according to Channel 4 News. Mr. Schilder, an amateur musician, posted a photo on Facebook of the same type of plane owned by Malaysia Airlines that vanished in March. “In case it goes missing, this is what it looks like," Mr. Schilder wrote as a caption. 
Schilder和他的女朋友Tol是荷兰北部城镇福伦丹一家花店的老板。据第四频道的报道，他们此行正要前往巴厘岛度假。Schilder还是一位业余乐手，他在Facebook上发布了一张与三月份消失的马航客机同个型号飞机的照片，“万一它消失了，它现在是这个样子的，”Schilder在标题中写到。
Tessa van der Sande, 27
Tessa van der Sande，27岁
Program Officer - Netherlands
项目官员，荷兰
Amnesty International Netherlands said in a Facebook post that one of its employees, Tessa van der Sande, had been aboard the doomed jet along with members of her family. 
大赦国际荷兰分部在其Facebook上称，其一位员工Tessa van der Sande，与她的家人登上了失事客机。
Quinn Lucas Schansman, 19
Quinn Lucas Schansman，19岁
Student - United States and the Netherlands
学生，荷兰和美国
Mr. Schansman was born in New York while his father was working for the Dutch government. The family moved back to the Netherlands when he was only a few years old, and he lived the rest of his life in Europe, said Katinka Wallace, a relative. He had dual Dutch and American citizenship. Mr. Schansman’s grandfather was born in Indonesia, and the family had planned a three-week vacation to the country, Ms. Wallace said.
Schansman于纽约出生，他的父亲在荷兰政府工作。在他年仅几岁时，全家便搬回了荷兰，19岁Schansman在欧洲度过了余生，他的一名亲属Katinka Wallace说。她还说，Schansman拥有荷兰和美国双重国籍，Schansman的祖父在印尼出生，他全家当时正计划前往印尼度过三周假期。
Shazana Salleh, 31
Shazana Salleh，31岁
Flight attendant - Malaysia
乘务员，马来西亚
Ms. Salleh was a flight attendant and one of 15 Malaysian crew members on board the plane that crashed.
Salleh是本次失事马航航班上的15名机组人员之一。
Tambi Jiee, Ariza Ghazalee, Muhammad Afif, Afruz Tambi, Marsha Azmeena and Muhammad Afzal
Tambi Jiee，Ariza Ghazalee，Muhammad Afif，Afruz Tambi，Marsha Azmeena 和 Muhammad Afzal
Malaysia
马来西亚
The family of six had been living in Kazakhstan, where Tambi Jiee worked for an oil company, and they were on a short vacation in Europe before moving to Kuala Lumpur, according to Malaysian news media reports.
他们全家六人此前住在哈萨克斯坦，Tambi Jiee为当地一家石油公司工作。据马来西亚媒体报道，他们当时是在欧洲短暂度假后，在返回吉隆坡途中登上失事客机的。
Liam Davison, 56 and Frankie, 54
Liam Davison，56岁；Frankie，54岁
Novelist - Australia
小说家，澳大利亚
Mr. Davison, an Australian novelist, and his wife, Frankie, 54, were among the victims of Flight 17, the Australian newspaper The Age reported. Mr. Davison’s work earned a number of accolades, including a National Book Council Banjo Award for Fiction for his novel “Soundings” in 1993, according to his publisher. 
据澳大利亚时代报报道，Davison是澳大利亚的一名小说家，他和他54岁的妻子Frankie都在遇难名单中。据他的出版商所述，Davison的作品赢得了诸多赞誉，其中他的小说《试探》(Soundings)在1993年赢得了澳大利亚全国图书委员会虚构类图书奖项(National Book Council Banjo Award)。
Nick Norris, 68; Mo, 12; Evie, 10; and Otis Maslin, 8
Nick Norris，68岁；Mo，12岁；Evie，10岁；Otis Maslin，8岁
Australia
澳大利亚
Nick Norris was aboard the flight with his grandchildren, three Australian siblings — Mo, 12, Evie 10, and Otis Maslin, 8, reports in the Australian news media said. 
据澳大利亚媒体报道，68岁的Nick Norris和他的三个孙辈都登上了失事客机，其中Mo，12岁，Evie，10岁，Otis Maslin，8岁。
Philomene Tiernan, 77
Philomene Tiernan，77岁
Nun - Australia
修女，澳大利亚
Sister Tiernan, a Roman Catholic nun who worked at the Kincoppal-Rose Bay School of the Sacred Heart near Sydney, was returning from a retreat in France. 
77岁的Tiernan是一位罗马天主教修女，在悉尼附近的金科博尔玫瑰湾圣心学校(Kincoppal-Rose Bay School of the Sacred Heart )工作。她此行是从法国的清修中返回。
Albert and Maree Rizk
Albert Rizk；Maree
Real estate agent - Australia
房地产经纪人，澳大利亚
Albert Rizk, a real estate agent, and his wife, Maree, both in their early 50s, lived in Melbourne, Australia, and were returning home after a monthlong vacation in Europe, friends and relatives said. 
Albert Rizk是一名房地产经纪人，他和他同样50多岁的妻子Maree住在澳大利亚墨尔本。亲友们说，他们在欧洲度过一个月的假期后，在归途中登上失事客机。
Glenn Raymond Thomas, 49
Glenn Raymond Thomas，49岁
Media Officer - Britain
媒体官员，英国
Mr. Thomas, a media officer for the World Health Organization, was traveling to an AIDS conference in Australia. Originally from Blackpool, England, he was a former BBC journalist who joined the W.H.O and worked there for more than a decade. 
Thomas是世界卫生组织的一个媒体事务官，当时正在前往澳大利亚参加艾滋病大会。他从英格兰布莱克浦启程。他此前还担任过BBC记者，之后加入世卫组织并为之工作了超过十年时间。
Andrei Anghel, 24
Andrei Anghel，24岁
Student - Canada
学生，加拿大
Mr. Anghel was a medical student leaving for a trip to Bali with his German girlfriend, Olga Ioppa, according to the Toronto Star. He was the only Canadian on the flight. 
据多伦多星报，Anghel是一位医学学生，此行是与其德国女友Olga Ioppa前往巴厘岛旅行。他是遇难者中唯一的一位加拿大人。
Cameron Dalziel
Cameron Dalziel
Helicopter pilot - Britain and South Africa
直升机驾驶员，英国和南非
Mr. Dalziel was a helicopter pilot based in Malaysia, where he lived with his wife and two children. He was a South African citizen flying on a British passport, according to news reports. 
Dalziel是一位在马来西亚定居的直升机驾驶员，他与妻子和两个孩子在那里生活。据媒体报道，他拥有南非国籍，事发时以英国护照登机。