BEIJING — Steve Wang has not slept at his home in Beijing since Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 vanished with his mother on board. His days are a blur of rooms at the Lido Hotel: his suite on the 13th floor; the capacious ballroom, where Malaysian officials hold briefings; quiet corners where he has anguished meetings with other passengers’ relatives also living at the hotel. There are meals in between, though he said he no longer felt hunger.
北京——自从马来西亚航空公司370航班失踪以来，史蒂夫·王(Steve Wang)就没在北京自己的家里睡过觉，他的母亲就在那架飞机上。他的日子是在丽都酒店的不同房间里恍惚度过：13层的他住的套间、马来西亚官员发布消息用的宽敞的宴会厅、还有他与其他也住在这个酒店的乘客家属痛苦会面的安静角落。每天虽然有人提供膳食，但他说自己不再感到饥饿。
“We still think there’s hope,” said Mr. Wang, 25. “Now it’s less than 1 percent, but no matter how small it is, it’s still possible.”
现年25岁的史蒂夫·王说，“我们依然抱有希望。虽然现在希望不到1%，但无论多么渺茫，总还是有可能。”
Across town, another young man, Wang Le, whose mother was also on the flight, returned to his job as an entertainment news editor at an Internet company this week. He has not spent nights at the Lido with the other families.
在城市的另一边，另一位年轻人王乐（音译）的母亲也在那架飞机上，他这周已经重返工作岗位，他在一家互联网公司担任娱乐新闻编辑。他没有和其他家属那样在丽都酒店过夜。
“The atmosphere isn’t good,” he said. He plans to restart evening Thai martial arts classes, and he takes occasional nighttime strolls with his girlfriend near their apartment by the ancient Drum and Bell Towers.
他说，“那里的气氛很不好。”他打算重新回去上晚上的泰国武术课，有的晚上，他还和女朋友一起，在他们紧靠钟鼓楼的公寓附近散步。
“I would sometimes call my mother after lunch,” he said. “It was a habit. The last few days, I wanted to call her, and then I would realize she’s not here anymore, and I would feel very sad.”
“以前午饭后，我有时会给我妈打电话，”他说。“那是个习惯。在过去的几天中，我想过给她打电话，然后意识到她已经不在这里，我感到非常难过。”
“Basically, we don’t think there’s hope,” he said.
他说，“我们基本上已经不抱希望了。”
It has been four weeks since the Boeing 777-200 and its 239 passengers and crew members disappeared, leaving relatives of those on board, most of them Chinese, to make their own way across a barren landscape of grief. Despite a sprawling multinational search in the Indian Ocean, there are no bodies to weep over, no debris to sift for clues, no final recordings to puzzle through. In this vacuum, some families cling to the notion that the passengers are being held by hijackers, while others are preparing to burn incense to honor the dead this Saturday during the Qingming Festival, a time for ancestral tribute.
这架波音777-200型客机以及机上的239名乘客和机组人员失踪已经4周了，机上乘客大多数是中国人，他们的家人只能以各自的方式度过这段一筹莫展的悲伤。尽管在印度洋上的大面积搜索工作有多个国家参与，但目前仍没有找到可以让人痛哭的尸体，没有发现能用来寻找线索的碎片，也没有得到可以分析的最后录音。在信息真空中，一些家属坚持认为，飞机上的乘客仍在劫机者的掌握之中，而另一些家人则准备在本周六的清明节为死者烧香，清明节是祭奠死去的祖先的日子。
Some relatives have flown from China to Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, where the plane began its flight, to demand answers. Some are talking to lawyers here about compensation. Teenagers at the French International School in Beijing are receiving counseling over the loss of three classmates.
还有一些家属从北京飞往马来西亚首都吉隆坡，要求得到答案，该航班是从吉隆坡起飞的。有的家人已在这里与律师谈索赔的问题。也有人在给北京一所法语国际学校十几岁的学生们做心理辅导，因为该校失去了3名同学。
Steve Wang has taken a leave from his job as a salesman for a technology company. He is one of about 20 grieving relatives at the Lido Hotel who have formed a volunteer group to help the families. A stocky man who wears a white T-shirt with “Pray for MH370” on the back, he agreed to be interviewed on the condition that only his English name be used.
史蒂夫·王在一家技术公司做销售，他从公司请了假。他和住在丽都酒店的大约20位悲伤的家属一起，组成了一个帮助乘客家属的义务工作组。他个头不高但很壮实，身穿一件背后印着“为MH370祈祷”字样的白色T恤衫，他同意接受采访，条件是报道中只用他的英文名。
Since March 8, when the plane vanished while on its way to Beijing, the Lido has been the daily gathering point for the families. About 100 relatives live there in rooms that Malaysia Airlines pays for, and others stay at four other hotels in Beijing. Mr. Wang has been staying in a two-bedroom apartment at the Lido. His father shared it for the first week, but has since returned to the apartment where Mr. Wang and his parents live.
自从3月8日班机在飞往北京的途中失踪之后，丽都酒店就成了家属们每天会面的地点。约有100名家属住在丽都酒店，房费由马来西亚航空公司支付，其他人则住在北京的另外4家宾馆里。史蒂夫·王一直住在丽都酒店的一个双人套房。他的父亲在第一周曾与他一起住在那里，但后来回到了史蒂夫·王和父母一起居住的家中。
“I’m afraid of going home,” Mr. Wang said as he smoked a cigarette outdoors at a Starbucks by the hotel’s rear entrance. “It’s hard for me to look at the pictures and her things in our home.”
史蒂夫·王在丽都酒店后门外的一家星巴克咖啡店外，一边抽烟、一边说，“我害怕回家。我不敢看照片，还有家里她的东西。”
Mr. Wang’s mother is a retired chemistry professor with a passion for photography. At 57, she traveled the world with friends, lugging along her state-of-the-art Canon camera. She and eight friends on Flight 370 were returning from a two-week trip to Nepal.
他的母亲是一位退休的化学教授，热爱摄影。57岁的她和朋友们一起周游世界，最新款的佳能相机是她的旅行必备。她和8个朋友刚刚结束了在尼泊尔的两周游，一起乘坐马航370回国。
Mr. Wang keeps some of his mother’s photographs on his cellphone. There are shots of an ancient white-walled village in coastal Jiangsu Province, and of a Buddhist temple in a desert in western China.
史蒂夫·王的手机里有一些他母亲拍的照片。有几张是在沿海的江苏省拍的白色城墙围绕的古老村镇，还有的是在中国西部沙漠中拍的一座佛教寺庙。
He used the same cellphone to check the news minute by minute in the first few weeks, “looking at what has been found, what has been said, what has been claimed,” Mr. Wang said. Now he tries to avoid the news, he said.
在最初的几周里，他用这个手机每时每刻地察看着新闻，“看看找到了什么、说了些什么、声称了什么，”他说。现在他尽量避免去看新闻，他说。
“We have had complicated emotions during these 20 days,” he said. “We’re exhausted, mentally and physically. But we’re still waiting.”
“过去20天中，我们的情绪很复杂，”他说，“我们身心俱惫。但仍在等待。”
Mr. Wang eats all his meals inside the hotel. After dinner, he and other relatives often chat, smoke and drink tea in his room. He said he sleeps four to five hours each night.
史蒂夫·王的每顿饭都是在这个酒店里吃的。吃过晚饭后，他常和其他家属一起在他的房间里聊天、抽烟喝茶。他说他每天晚上睡4、5个小时。
Like many other relatives, Mr. Wang said he was angry at the Malaysian government “because of their attitude towards us.” On Wednesday morning, during a video call with Malaysian officials and technical experts in Kuala Lumpur, he was selected by the families to press the experts for explanations because he speaks fluent English.
他说，和其他家属一样，他对马来西亚政府感到愤怒，“因为他们对待我们的态度。”周三上午，在与吉隆坡的马来西亚官员和技术专家进行视频通话时，因为他能说流利的英语，乘客家属推他为代表，追问专家给予解释。
“We just want the truth,” he said.
他说，“我们只想知道真相。”
The same day, Wang Le, 26, sat at his desk at a large Internet company in northwest Beijing editing articles about a Chinese actor embroiled in an adultery scandal. After three weeks away, he returned on Monday to his job. His boss knows of his mother’s disappearance, as do a few close colleagues.
同一天，在北京西北部一家大型互联网公司里，26岁的王乐坐在他的办公桌前，开始编辑文章，文章是有关中国一位男演员的花心丑闻的。在离开工作3周后，他于周一重返岗位。他的老板知道他母亲失踪的事情，知道消息的还有几位与他关系比较近的同事。
“They go with me to eat lunch, but they don’t talk too much about this,” said Mr. Wang, no relation to Steve Wang, on Wednesday night at a cafe near the Drum Tower.
“他们和我一起吃午饭，但不提这件事，”王乐周三晚上在鼓楼附近一家咖啡馆里这样说，他与史蒂芬·王没有亲戚关系。
He met with this reporter on the same night he and his girlfriend were supposed to have been aboard a plane bound for New York. Before Flight 370, they had planned to quit their jobs and travel for three months. Their first stop would have been Albany to visit an uncle. Then they planned to go south to Mexico and Cuba.
与记者见面的这个晚上，他本该和女朋友一起乘飞机前往纽约。在马航370出事之前，他和女朋友曾打算双双辞职，旅行三个月。他们原计划的第一站是去纽约州的奥尔巴尼市看望一个叔叔，之后南下去墨西哥和古巴。
“Our idea was to take a ‘gap year’ and maybe get married,” he said. “Now, I can’t think about playing around or going back to school in the future. I don’t want to leave my dad.”
“我们的想法是，放空一年，也许结婚，”他说。“现在，我不能想玩的事情，或者将来再去上学。我不想离开我爸。”
Mr. Wang’s father, 64, has heart ailments. On March 8, Mr. Wang and his girlfriend went to his parents’ home in eastern Beijing to deliver the news about Flight 370. Mr. Wang’s father had heard about the flight that morning, but had no idea that his wife of almost 40 years was on board.
王乐的父亲今年64岁，他患有心脏病。3月8日那天，王乐和他女朋友一起，来到他父母在北京东边的家中，告诉父亲马航370出事的消息。王乐的父亲当天早上已经听到了有关新闻，但全然不知与他一起生活了近40年的妻子也在那趟班机上。
Mr. Wang’s parents had retired from running a clothing store in central Beijing. But his mother, 57, still did some business on the side, against his father’s wishes, Mr. Wang said. “Father would tell her to stay at home, rest, play,” he said.
王乐的父母以前在北京市中心地带经营一家服装店，现已退休。但是他今年57岁的母亲不顾他父亲的反对，还在兼职做些生意，王乐说。“我父亲总是对她说，在家里呆着吧，歇歇、玩玩。”
She flew to Malaysia on March 4 with a friend who sells cosmetics and other goods. “She told me not to tell father,” Mr. Wang said. The father knew only that she was traveling somewhere.
3月4日她和一个卖化妆品和其他东西的朋友一起飞到马来西亚。王乐说，“她跟我说，别告诉你爸。”他父亲只知道她旅行去了。
On March 9, the family went to the Lido Hotel seeking information. Mr. Wang stayed with his father at the family’s home for a few days.The first night, Mr. Wang sat in his mother’s room. There were clothes everywhere. “My father told me, ‘Yesterday, I came in here and sat for a while too,’” Mr. Wang said. “He said, ‘I don’t want to clean it up. I want to leave it this way for her return.’”
3月9日，他们一家人来到丽都酒店询求消息。王乐在父母家陪父亲住了几天。第一个晚上，王乐坐在他母亲的屋子里。到处都是衣服。“我爸跟我说，‘昨天，我也进来坐了一会儿。’”王乐说，“他说，‘我不想收拾。我想留着这个样子，等她回来。’”
Each night his father made his wife’s favorite dishes. “He cried whenever we talked about mother,” Mr. Wang said. “He would drink a small bottle of liquor at dinner, more than he used to drink.”
每天晚上，他父亲都会做妻子最喜欢的菜。“我们一说起妈妈，他就哭，”王乐说。“晚饭的时候他会喝一小瓶白酒，比他以前喝得多。”
A courier arrived one day with a package for his mother, something she had ordered online. Neither Mr. Wang nor his father knew what to do with it.
有一天，快递送来了一个包裹，里面是他母亲曾在网上订购的东西。他和父亲都不知道拿这个包裹怎么办。
“We both wanted to say, ‘Let’s put it in her room for when she comes back,'  ” Mr. Wang said. “But neither of us could finish the sentence.”
“我们都想说，‘咱们把这个包裹放在她的房间里，等她回来再说，’”王乐说。“但我们都没能说完这句话。”