HONG KONG — Malaysia’s handling of the discovery of a wing part that apparently came from the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has worsened frictions with its partners in the investigation, rekindled frustrations among the families of people who were aboard the plane and further dented the country’s battered credibility.
香港——对于近日寻获的一件很可能属于失踪马航370航班的机翼残骸，马来西亚的处理方式不仅激化了它与调查行动中的合作伙伴的矛盾，让机上乘客的家人再次陷入痛苦，还进一步削弱了该国已经遭受重创的公信力。
Many questioned the timing and motives of the Malaysian prime minister, Najib Razak, who announced in the early hours of Thursday that the wing part had been “conclusively confirmed” to be from the missing plane. He spoke just before a news conference in Paris where French investigators were much more guarded, saying only that the experts had “very strong presumptions” that the part came from the plane, a Boeing 777.
马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)本周四早间宣布已经“完全确认”这块残骸来自MH370，此举的时机和动机遭到了很多人的质疑。在紧随其后的巴黎新闻发布会上，法国调查人员的态度更加谨慎，表示专家只是说残骸“非常有可能”来自那架波音777飞机。
Later on Thursday the Malaysian transportation minister, Liow Tiong Lai, clouded the picture further when he told reporters in Kuala Lumpur that a Malaysian team had found more aircraft debris on the French island of Réunion, where the wing part was discovered last week. The French authorities in Paris denied that any new aircraft debris had been found.
周四晚些时候，马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)让事情显得更加云里雾里：他在吉隆坡告诉记者，在上周发现机翼残骸的法属留尼旺岛，一个马来西亚团队找到了更多的飞机残骸。而在巴黎，法国当局否认有任何新的飞机残骸被发现。
The discrepancies between the Malaysian declarations and what others involved in the investigation, including experts from Boeing, were prepared to conclude about the evidence have created significant tensions between Malaysian and French officials, according to a person close to the investigation.
知情人士称，对于从目前的证据可以得出何种结论，马来西亚的声明与包括波音公司专家在内的其他调查者之间存在很大出入，这种差异在马来西亚和法国官员之间制造了相当紧张的关系。
Mr. Najib has domestic political worries, not least a scandal swirling around a troubled state investment fund that has put him under intense scrutiny. The Wall Street Journal and The Sarawak Report, a website based in Britain, have reported that documents found by investigators in Malaysia indicate that almost $700 million from the fund was transferred to accounts that Mr. Najib is believed to control.
纳吉布在国内存在政治方面的担忧，尤其是围绕一个陷入争议的政府投资基金所爆发的丑闻，正令他处于众目睽睽之下。《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)和总部设在英国的网站“砂拉越报告”(The Sarawak Report)称，在马来西亚的调查人员发现的文件表明，该基金大约有7亿美元被转移到了据信由纳吉布控制的帐户里。
In late July, Mr. Najib dismissed his deputy prime minister, who had publicly called on him to give a full account of the matter, and the country’s attorney general, who was one of the leaders of the investigation into the scandal.
7月下旬，纳吉布解除了副总理和检察总长的职务，前者公开要求他对这件事予以充分解释，后者是调查这一丑闻的领导者之一。
But exasperation with the Malaysian authorities dates to when the plane first disappeared, on a night flight from Kuala Lumpur bound for Beijing in the early hours of March 8, 2014. Ground controllers lost contact with the plane about 40 minutes after takeoff, but the authorities did not issue an alert about the missing plane for hours.
但人们对马来西亚当局的不满可以追溯到这架飞机最初消失的时候。MH370是从吉隆坡飞北京的夜间航班，在2014年3月8日凌晨失踪。地面控制人员在它起飞40分钟后就与其失去了联系，但当局直到几个小时后才发布了它失踪的警报。
Then, Malaysia spent a full week directing a major search-and-rescue effort focused on the Gulf of Thailand, along the plane’s scheduled flight path, even though the Malaysian military had tracked an unidentified aircraft flying in nearly the opposite direction — westward and out into the Indian Ocean — which investigators later concluded was Flight 370.
后来，马来西亚花了一整周时间，引导相关人员沿着飞机的原定飞行路线在泰国湾开展主要的搜救工作，尽管马来西亚军队追踪发现一架身份不明的飞机朝着几乎相反的方向飞行——向西进入印度洋上空，调查人员后来断定该飞机就是370航班。
Eventually, based on the radar data and automated satellite signals received from the jet, investigators concluded that it had flown on for hours more, and probably ran out of fuel and crashed in the Indian Ocean west or southwest of Australia. Searchers began working from the air, and later scanning the deep ocean floor with sonar devices, but nothing has been found there.
最终，根据雷达数据和飞机自动发出的卫星信号，调查人员断定，飞机又飞行了几个小时，可能最终耗尽燃料，在澳大利亚西部或西南部的印度洋海域坠落。搜寻人员开始从空中搜寻，后来利用声呐设备在深海海底进行搜寻，但一无所获。
The wing part was the first tangible trace of the plane to turn up.
机翼残骸是搜寻中发现的首个确凿痕迹。
For many people who had loved ones aboard Flight 370, the identification, or near-identification, of the object only intensified their desire to know how and why the jet had veered off course and flown unnoticed into remote ocean waters.
对于370航班乘客的亲属来说，该残骸的归属确认，或这种几乎可以确认的状态，只会促使他们更想知道飞机如何及为什么偏离航线，飞向偏远海域而不被发现。
Chinese citizens made up about two-thirds of the 239 people on the plane, and in Beijing, relatives of the victims viewed Mr. Najib’s announcement with skepticism or outright disbelief.
飞机上239名人员中有大约三分之二是中国人，在北京，遇难者的亲属对纳吉布宣布的消息持怀疑或完全不相信的态度。
On Thursday morning, about 20 relatives gathered outside the Malaysia Airlines office in Beijing, demanding to talk to airline representatives and to be flown to Réunion. More than two dozen police officers kept them from entering the office building.
周四上午，大约20名亲属聚集在马航驻北京办公室，要求与航空公司代表对话，乘飞机前往留尼旺岛。20多名警察阻止他们进入办公大楼。
“We don’t accept this, this is not closure,” said Dai Shuqing, who had five relatives on the plane, including her sister. “The Malaysians want to lie to the whole world, but they cannot lie to us. We will persevere and keep digging.”
“我们不接受这个说法，事情不会这么结束，” 戴淑琴说。“马来西亚人想对全世界撒谎，但他们不能对我们撒谎。我们会坚持下去，继续追究。”戴淑琴有五名亲属在飞机上，其中包括她的妹妹。
Under international aviation conventions, Malaysia is leading the overall Flight 370 investigation because the aircraft was registered in Malaysia and took off from Kuala Lumpur. The ocean search is being led by Australia, whose ports are nearest the search area. But the wing part found on Réunion is being examined at a laboratory near Toulouse, France, because it washed ashore on French territory. The Paris prosecutor’s office has opened an inquiry into the crash because four French citizens were aboard the flight.
由于MH370航班在马来西亚注册，从吉隆坡起飞，根据国际航空公约的规定，该航班的全部调查工作由马来西亚主导。海上搜寻工作则由澳大利亚主导，因为澳大利亚的港口距离搜寻区域最近。但在留尼旺岛发现的机翼部分被送到了法国图卢兹附近的一个实验室进行检测，因为它被冲到了法属岛屿的岸边。巴黎检察官办公室对坠落事件开展了调查，因为飞机上有四名法国公民。
Though Malaysian officials appeared eager to reach conclusions swiftly and put the mystery of Flight 370 behind them, Tony Abbott, the Australian prime minister, said on Thursday that the ocean search effort would continue. “We owe it to the hundreds of millions of people who use our skies,” he said.
虽然马来西亚官员显得非常渴望很快得出结论，将370航班谜团抛在脑后，但澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)在周四表示，海上搜寻行动将会继续。他说，“我们要向从我们的领空飞过的数亿人有个交代。”
Meanwhile, Jean-Paul Virapoullé, the mayor of St.-André, Réunion, near where the wing debris was found, said on Thursday that his town would organize a “meticulous search” of the beaches there next week.
与此同时，圣安德烈镇镇长让-保罗·韦拉普勒(Jean-Paul Virapoullé)在周四表示，该镇会在下周组织人员在海滩进行“仔细搜寻”。机翼残骸是在圣安德烈镇附近找到的。
“If it can soothe the terrible pain of these hundreds of families, the city of St.-André, with the agreement of the relevant international authorities, is ready to erect a memorial for the people who are missing,” the mayor said in the statement.
镇长发表声明称，“如果这能缓解数百个家庭的巨大痛苦，圣安德烈镇在获得相关国际机构的同意后，准备为失踪者树立纪念碑。”
The person close to the investigation said that volunteers on Réunion turned in some additional debris to French aviation officials on the island on Thursday, but that a preliminary evaluation indicated that none of the objects were from a plane.
了解调查进程的人士表示，留尼旺岛的志愿者已于周四将其他残骸交给在该岛工作的法国航空官员，但初步评估说明，这些残骸都不属于370航班。
Still, David Griffin, an Australian scientist who has mapped ocean currents in the area, said on Thursday that he believed more debris from Flight 370 could wash up on Madagascar, the much larger island nation to the west of Réunion.
此外，曾绘制该海域海流图的澳大利亚科学家戴维·格里芬(David Griffin)在周四表示，他认为更多370航班残骸可能被冲到了位于留尼旺以西的马达加斯加，一个比留尼旺大得多的岛国。
“There could be a very large amount of debris floating, or a very small amount,” said Mr. Griffin, who is with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization in Australia. “I am slightly surprised that something turned up at Réunion, rather than Madagascar, because Madagascar is so much bigger.”
“那里可能漂浮着很多残骸，也可能很少，” 在澳大利亚的联邦科学和工业研究组织(Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization)工作的格里芬说。“残骸出现在留尼旺，而不是马达加斯加，这让我感到有点吃惊，因为马达加斯加要大得多。”
Wen Wancheng, 63, whose son was on the aircraft, said finding one wing part did not resolve the mystery of Flight 370. “The sort of closure the families want is to know what exactly happened to the plane, and have the bodies returned,” he said by telephone from Jinan, in eastern China.
温万成（音）今年63岁，他的儿子也在失踪飞机上。他表示，找到一块机翼并不能解开370航班谜团。他在中国东部城市济南接受电话采访时表示，“亲属们想要的结局就是了解飞机的遭遇，并找回遗体。”
That sentiment was shared by other relatives of Flight 370 victims around the world, some of whom said that the discovery of the wing part, known as a flaperon, only intensified the mystery.
世界各地370航班遇难者的家属也有同样的感受，其中一些人表示，找到被称为襟副翼的这部分机翼，只是加重了这个谜团。
“Ultimately in the end for the families to have a sort of closure, we need to know why it ended up in the ocean, what happened,” Sara Weeks, whose brother Paul was a passenger, said in an interview with Australian radio from Christchurch, New Zealand. “It is really important for everyone because if that plane can go missing, another one can.”
“家属最后要一个结论，我们需要知道飞机为何在该海域坠落，以及发生了什么事情，”萨拉·威克斯(Sara Weeks)在新西兰克赖斯特彻奇接受澳大利亚电台接受采访时说，这的兄弟保罗(Paul)在失踪航班上。“这对每个人都很重要，因为如果这架飞机会失踪，那么今后还会有别的飞机失踪。”
For some, the longing for more evidence has only grown stronger.
对于一些人来说， 此事只能令他们愈发渴望看到更多证据。
“It’s a piece of flaperon, it’s not my husband,” said Jacquita Gonzales, the wife of a Flight 370 crew member, Patrick Gomes. Ms. Gonzales was one of a small group of family members who spoke to reporters on Thursday in the Malaysian city of Petaling Jaya.
“那是一块襟副翼，不是我的丈夫，”370航班机组人员帕特里克·戈梅斯(Patrick Gomes) 的妻子贾克奎塔·冈萨雷斯(Jacquita Gonzales)说。周四，冈萨雷斯和其他几名家属在马来西亚八打灵再也接受了记者采访。
“Although they found something, it’s not the end,” she added. “They still need to find the whole plane and our spouses as well. We still want them back.”
“虽然他们找到一些东西，但事情还没结束，”她说。“他们仍旧需要找到整个飞机和我们的妻子、丈夫。我们仍旧希望找回他们。”