Posted above the doorway of an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art is a question raised in 1911 by the painter Wassily Kandinsky: “Must we not then renounce the object altogether, throw it to the winds and instead lay bare the purely abstract?”
在纽约现代艺术博物馆(the Museum of Modern Art, MoMA)一间展厅的大门正上方，贴着画家瓦西里•康定斯基(Wassily Kandinsky)在1911年时提出的一个问题：“难道我们必须同所有现实之物绝裂，将其彻底抛弃，转而去揭示纯粹的抽象意象吗？”
The quote introduces “Inventing Abstraction: 1910-1925,” about the birth of nonrepresentational art. But it could easily migrate downstairs three floors to “Applied Design,” a show of works from MoMA’s design collection that opened on Saturday and will be on view through January 2014.
这一问题，将我们带入一场关于非写实艺术诞生的展览：“发明抽象之物：1910-1925”。不过，它又很容易让人联想到三层楼之下的另一个展览：“应用设计”。展览于周六（3月23日——译注）开幕，直到2014年1月，都可看到这批MoMA收藏的设计作品。
Organized by Paola Antonelli, senior curator of architecture and design at the museum, with Kate Carmody, a curatorial assistant, and Paul Galloway, supervisor of the museum’s Study Center, “Applied Design” is a bold bracketing of furnishings, tools, graphics and games that challenge what we imagine design to be. Unlike the streamlined chairs, automobiles and utensils that are staples of MoMA’s collection, most of the roughly 100 items displayed here will never be found on eBay. But you can see them in video arcades and biotechnology labs and even on the keypads of communications devices.
“应用设计”的策展人，包括博物馆内建筑与设计馆的资深馆长葆拉·安东内利(Paola Antonelli)、馆长助理凯特·卡莫迪(Kate Carmody)和博物馆研究中心主管保罗·加洛韦(Paul Galloway)策划。展览中包括了一系列大胆的设计：家具、工具、图画和挑战我们想象力的游戏。与流线型的椅子、汽车和器皿这些MoMA藏品中的主流设计不同的是，“应用设计”展出的这大约100件藏品，大部分都是在易趣网(eBay)上买不到的。不过，你可以在投币式录像游戏厅、生物技术实验室甚至通讯装置的小键盘上看到它们。
Ms. Antonelli has roamed this unconventional turf in previous MoMA shows. “Design and the Elastic Mind” (2008), for instance, explored the productive partnership between design and science in works like BioWall, a lacy fiberglass partition by the London design studio Loop.pH, which was formed from mathematically derived shapes and woven with living plants. “Talk to Me” (2011) opened a window onto the increasingly complicated relationship between people and machines; its many engrossing examples included the Artificial Biological Clock designed by Revital Cohen, a prototype for a device that collates online data from a woman’s doctor, therapist and bank manager to determine the right time for her to have a child.
安东内利仔细梳理了一番博物馆此前在这片非传统领域举办的展览。例如2008年的“设计与弹性思维展”，探索了设计与科学之间富有成效的伙伴关系，其中有像由伦敦设计工作室Loop.pH设计的生态墙(BioWall)这样的作品。这面带花边的玻璃纤维隔断上缠绕着植物，其形状还是通过数学推导计算出来的。而2001年举办的“对我说”则开启了一扇窗，让我们得以一窥人类与机器之间日益复杂的关系，其中引人入胜的藏品包括莱维塔·科恩(Revital Cohen)设计的人造生物钟。这款装置雏形通过整理某位女士的医生、治疗师及其银行经理提供的在线数据，就能分析出她的最佳孕期。
Both of these works can be found in “Applied Design,” where they are cleanly displayed and easier to study than in the rich thickets of their prior installations. They are joined not just by companions from those earlier shows but also by other recent additions to the permanent collection.
这两件藏品，都可以在“应用设计展”上找到。与其之前错综复杂的展位相比，现在它们被简单利落地展示在这里，更加便于观摩。与它们一道展出的不仅有此前展览上露过面的作品，还有最近才被纳入永久性收藏的其他藏品。
In an audacious stroke, Ms. Antonelli acquired 14 video games for the museum last fall, including Pac-Man, Tetris, Myst and Canabalt. They’re installed in housings of utter sobriety along three walls of this exhibition. Visitors are invited to play several of the games and watch samples of the elaborate digital worlds constructed over time in others.
去年秋天，安东内利突发奇想，为博物馆购置了14款电子游戏，包括吃豆人(pac-man)、俄罗斯方块(tetris)、神秘岛(myst)和屋顶狂奔(Canabalt)。这些游戏在每个传统展厅里都占据了三面墙的位置。参观者会被邀请来试玩其中一些游戏，并观看另一些游戏里逐渐展现出来的精巧的数字世界。
And posted at the rear of the gallery is the “@” symbol, which Ms. Antonelli brought to MoMA with much fanfare two years ago. The mark dates at least from the Middle Ages and was long used by merchants notating orders of commercial goods sold at a particular price. What MoMA “owns” is a typographical version of the symbol adopted by Ray Tomlinson in 1971 while he was designing the first e-mail system developed by the United States government.
展厅的后方贴着一个“@”的标志，两年前，安东内利在热热闹闹的欢迎仪式中把它迎了回来。这个标志的历史至少可以追溯到中世纪，那时的商人们用此标志记录某些特定售价商品的订单。现代艺术博物馆“拥有”的这件印刷品，是1971年美国政府开发第一个电子邮件系统时，雷·汤姆林森(Ray Tomlinson)为他们设计的。
Ms. Antonelli is less interested in the form of the mark than its role in creating global networks. Like video games, the @ symbol is our passport to enter the digital realm, at the border between flesh and technology. Ms. Antonelli sees design potential in “the space between human and digital,” she noted last week. This is the frontier of science fiction where bodies are augmented by empowering prosthetics — the scenarios of “The Six Million Dollar Man” and the 1999 David Cronenberg film “eXistenZ.” Except Ms. Antonelli believes that such clumsy enhancements will ultimately evolve into a seamless interface between human and digital, with the mind as controller.
比起该标志的外形，安东内利对其在创建全球网络的过程中所扮演的角色更感兴趣。跟电子游戏一样，@标志是我们进入数字王国的通行证，是现实社会与数字王国间的边境线。上周，安东内利说她看到了“人类和数字之间”存在的设计潜能。这里是科幻小说的前沿阵地，人体可以通过修复术不断被强化，就像《无敌金刚》(The Six Million Dollar Man)和大卫·柯南伯格(David Cronenberg)1999年执导的电影《感官游戏》(eXistenZ)中表现的那样。不过安东内利相信，那种笨拙的强化方式最终还是会逐渐演变成由思想控制的自由转换。
If only the label “Applied Design” communicated the excitement of that vision. Usually, Ms. Antonelli dreams up inspired titles for her shows, but the name “Applied Design” is mysteriously drab and even redundant: design by almost any definition serves some practical end. What does “applied” mean for work that was always presumably intended for use?
要是“应用设计”这个意象也能像她的上述构想一样激动人心就好了。通常，安东内利都会借助灵感，为自己的展览取个引人入胜的名字，可“应用设计”这个词实在单调，甚至还有些多余：无论在哪种定义下，“设计”几乎总是有一定实用性的。那么，将这些本来就是要被人使用的东西为“应用”，有什么意思呢？
Ms. Antonelli said she was thinking about a future when the design field will be subdivided, like physics, into theoretical and applied branches. (That future is within sight, one should add; even now, designers once known for creating cold, hard objects are rebranding themselves as “innovation strategists” who produce ideas rather than things.) At the same time, she said, she was riffing on an old term for design: “applied art.”
安东内利说，她在思索的是，未来，设计领域将会进一步划分，就像物理学产生出了理论分支和应用分支一样（应该补充一句，这样的未来指日可待；即便是现在，那些曾经以冰冷坚硬的作品而闻名的设计师们如今也在重塑自己的形象，向着创造理念而非实物的“创新型设计师”去转型了）。同时她还说，她所再现的不过是一个设计界的老词：“实用美术”(applied art)。
Fundamentally, however, the title refers to the many arenas in which designers are active. Ms. Antonelli hasn’t abandoned the object, but she is keen to show it as an outgrowth of open-ended technologies like 3-D printing and conceptual models like biomimicry, where design is patterned on nature.
然而在根本上，这个名字还是能体现出很多设计师们活跃的领域的。安东内利并没有抛弃实物，但她也渴望展示那些具有“开放式结尾”的新技术所衍生出的作品，比如3D打印，和以自然为范例的生物拟态概念模型。
On view, for example, is the Lily Impeller, a flowing hunk of stainless steel that Jayden D. Harman, an inventor and entrepreneur, modeled on the Fibonacci spiral. The shape, which curls like a nautilus shell, allows the device to circulate millions of gallons of water efficiently in municipal water systems.
比如说，展览上一件叫“莉莉叶轮”(Lily Impeller)的作品。这是一块平滑无瑕的钢制品，是发明家兼创业家杰登·D·哈曼(Jayden D. Harman)模仿斐波纳契数列做出来的。在城市供水系统中，其酷似鹦鹉螺壳的外形可以让该装置有效地循环数百万加仑的水。
It’s a gorgeous object. “I want to remind people of the importance of elegance: the fact that beauty should not be costlier or harder to find than nonbeauty,” Ms. Antonelli said of the many visually compelling displays in the show, including lacy textiles from the Dutch studio Freedom of Creation made by rapid-prototyping technology and a floor lamp by the British designer Paul Cocksedge that is effectively a big fiber-optic strand. People who stop to admire such objects will be poised to think about “a world of very serious manufacturing and materials considerations,” she said. “They seduce you with their form, then transport you into the future of design.”
这是件非常迷人的作品。“我想提醒大家，优雅的外形也是很重要的：事实上，美的东西不应该比丑的东西更昂贵，或更难寻。” 关于展览上许多外观极具吸引力的展品，安东内利说出了这番话。这样的展品包括荷兰Freedom of Creation工作室用快速成型技术(rapid-prototyping technology)做出的蕾丝花边纺织品，以及英国设计师保罗·考克斯基(Paul Cocksedge)设计的落地灯。其实，这盏灯就是一大束光学纤维。驻足欣赏这些展品的人，其思绪都将沉浸在“一个充满对制造与材料的严肃思考的世界，”她说，“它们会先用外形吸引你，然后再将你带入设计的未来世界。”
And what if those seductions lead not to the future but to a dead end of artistic self-indulgence? The kind of object that looks better on paper (or in a museum setting) than in practice?
要是这些吸引力没有将我们带入未来，却反而走进了艺术肆意妄为的死胡同怎么办？要是这种东西放在纸面上（或博物馆里）看起来远比在实际中好得多怎么办？
That’s the charge against one of the star exhibits, Mine Kafon, an instrument designed to float across fields and detonate buried land mines. Created by Massoud Hassani, an Afghan, as a student project at Design Academy Eindhoven in the Netherlands, Mine Kafon would seem above reproach: it’s made inexpensively of recycled materials; it’s powered by a renewable energy source, the wind; it promises to save lives; it can be easily repaired when damaged; and with its resemblance to a fluffy dandelion, it’s a visual poem. Sitting in the corner of an exhibition space, it commands serious attention, even without the accompanying video that shows it in action.
Mine Kafon就是这样一件备受争议的装置。它由阿富汗人马苏德·哈桑尼(Massoud Hassani)设计，可以滚过某片地区，引爆其间所埋的地雷。这件完成于荷兰艾恩德霍芬设计学院(Design Academy Eindhoven)的学生习作看起来似乎十全十美：它由便宜的可再生材料制成；利用的是可再生能源——风能；它可以拯救生命；一旦损坏，也很容易修理；而且，它酷似毛绒绒的蒲公英，美好得如同一首视觉诗篇。即便没有同步录像，静置于展厅一角的它还是吸引了强烈关注。
But Marc Vlemmings, a journalist in the Netherlands, is a critic of the invention. Debating its merits in the Dutch design magazine Items, he argued that Mine Kafon is a prototype that hasn’t been tested and refined sufficiently to earn its plaudits (not least of which is a place in MoMA’s permanent collection). He was rankled by the premise of a minesweeper following an erratic, wind-driven path rather than a systematic program for clearing the weapons. “The Mine Kafon provides inhabitants of a mine-infested area with a false sense of security,” he said.
不过，荷兰记者马克·弗莱明(Marc Vlemmings)是这个新发明的批评者。他在荷兰设计杂志《物件》(Items)上，就其优点展开了争辩，说Mine Kafon是件没有经过测试和足够改进的样品，当不起如此盛赞（尤其不应跻身MoMA的永久收藏品）。一想到这台扫雷装置利用的是一种不稳定的风力驱动，而不是一套系统的武器清除程序，他就难受得要死。“Mine Kafon带给雷区内的居民一种安全错觉。”他说。
When told of the objection, Ms. Antonelli countered: “Sometimes there are hero objects that sensitize the world. I never thought that it was tested and ready to be deployed, but I thought that the concept was so strong, so convincing and so powerful, even because of the connection to the designer’s personal history, that it was enough for us.”
得知这一反对意见后，安东内利反击道：“有时，一些大无畏的设计一经问世就令全世界触动。我从不认为它已经测试完毕，随时可以投入使用。但我觉得，这个理念太强大、太有说服力了，即便设计者资历尚浅，对我们来说，它的分量也已足够。”
Still, the idea of heroic yet possibly ineffective design would have disturbed some of Ms. Antonelli’s predecessors at MoMA. Much modern design is based on the principle that objects that perform wonderfully (whether paper clips or BMWs) can’t help looking wonderful, whereas objects that fail to work bear the aesthetic mark of their ineptitude.
不过，这种大无畏却很可能没什么功用的设计，可能会困扰安东内利在MoMA的某些前辈。许多现代设计遵循着这样一个原则：性能好的东西（无论是曲别针还是宝马车）外形都不会不好看，而无法发挥功用的东西往往看起来也同样蠢笨。
History has proved this maxim wrong many times, but never so persuasively as in the age of the computer chip, when the relationship between appearance and performance has become increasingly irrelevant. Now, tiny microprocessors govern the effectiveness of many designs. Form and function have undergone a rancorous divorce and frequently occupy separate quarters of the same objects.
历史已经多次证明了这条“定理”的错误性，但都从未像这个电脑芯片的时代一般有说服力。在这个时代，外表和性能已经越来越不相关。如今，小小一个微处理器就可有效地控制许多设计。形状和功能在经历了一场积怨颇深的决裂之后，常常会各自占据同一物品的不同部分。
But no matter what activity churns in the silicon brain of a design, a museum exhibition is still compelled to make it appealing. If there are heroics in this show, they lie in Ms. Antonelli’s willingness to pursue design down slippery corridors into challenging places like molecular biology and five-dimensional space. Her interest in design as a response to new technologies and social conditions — a promoter of experience rather than an object to be passively considered, even in the formal precincts of a museum — is in step with the way design is being executed in the world.
但是，无论一件设计的“硅脑”如何运转，博物馆里的一场展览还是不由得要让它看起来引人入胜。要说这场展览有什么大无畏的元素，那就是安东内利在具有挑战性的领域内追寻设计灵感的意愿，比如分子生物学和五维空间等领域。她在设计上的兴趣所在，是其对新科技和社会状况的一种回应，它与设计在现实世界中如何被实践，总是步调一致的。即便在博物馆这样一个刻板保守的区域里，她也希望设计能够成为一个激发人们获得体验的契机，而非一件被动的展品而已。
Ultimately, she may expand the definition of design so far that it explodes, but will that matter? She’s calling a messy, restless, enthralling discipline exactly as she sees it. Maybe it’s time to think of another name for design — or several.
最终，她或许会将设计的定义拓展得过了头，但那又有什么关系呢？她所呼唤的也是她所深信的——一个凌乱、躁动又迷人的秩序。也许，是时候给设计再想一个、或者几个新名字了。