Instead of splashing into the Pacific Ocean in 2020 as planned, the International Space Station will continue circling Earth for at least an additional four years, NASA announced on Wednesday.
美国国家航空航天局(NASA)周三宣布，国际空间站(International Space Station)不会按照原计划于2020年坠入太平洋，而是将再环绕地球飞行至少四年。
William H. Gerstenmaier, NASA’s associate administrator for human exploration and operations, said the extra time would lead more scientists to propose experiments, spur a young commercial space industry and allow the space agency to solve health and technical challenges before sending its astronauts on more distant missions.
NASA负责人类探索与行动的副局长威廉·H·格斯登美尔(William H. Gerstenmaier)表示，延长的时间将促使更多的科学家提出实验计划，刺激新生的商用太空产业，让NASA在送宇航员执行更遥远的任务之前先解决一些健康与技术难题。
If the station were destined for destruction just six years from now, scientists and companies would be more reluctant to invest their time and money, Mr. Gerstenmaier said. “Potentially, that creates a new economy in space,” he said.
格斯登美尔称，假如国际空间站在仅六年后势必要坠毁，科学家与企业会更加不愿投入自己的精力与资金。“这有可能创造出太空的新经济局面，”他说。
Two companies, SpaceX and the Orbital Sciences Corporation, fly cargo to the space station, and NASA is looking to hire commercial “space taxis” to take astronauts beginning in 2017. Mr. Gerstenmaier said he thought that more companies would now also look at how they could take advantage of the weightlessness of space for profit.
目前有两家企业——SpaceX和轨道科学公司(Orbital Sciences Corporation)——在往空间站运送货物。NASA还正寻求从2017年开始租用商用“太空的士”来运送宇航员。格斯登美尔认为，更多的企业如今也会思考，如何利用太空的失重环境来盈利。
Last year, NASA studied the station and concluded that it could last until 2028. The other space agencies participating in it, including the European Space Agency and those of Russia and Japan, have not decided whether they, too, will continue beyond 2020.
去年，NASA对空间站进行了评估，得出结论，它可以坚持到2028年。参与该站的其他航天机构，包括欧洲航天局(European Space Agency)以及俄罗斯和日本的相关机构，均尚未决定是否也会延期到2020年以后。
“In general, they’re all pretty supportive,” Mr. Gerstenmaier said, adding that if necessary, NASA would go it alone.
“总体而言，它们全都持相当支持的态度，”格斯登美尔说。他还称，如有必要，NASA将独自前行。
This is the second time the Obama administration has extended the life of the orbiting laboratory. 
这是奥巴马政府第二次延长这座轨道实验室的寿命。
When President Obama entered the White House, NASA was working to send astronauts back to the moon, and the space station, which was still being built, was to be nudged to a fiery ocean crash in 2016. The cost of operating the station, about $3 billion a year, could then be devoted to the moon program.
奥巴马总统入主白宫之时，NASA正在进行让宇航员重返月球的项目，当时仍处于建设期的空间站正慢慢走向2016年燃烧坠海的命运。这样，每年约30亿美元（约合182亿元人民币）的空间站运行费用可以被用来转投月球项目。
However, it always seemed unlikely that the station, which was built at a cost of $100 billion and completed just three years ago, would be discarded that soon, and when the Obama administration announced it wanted to cancel the moon program, it gave the first extension, stretching the life of the station to 2020.
然而，这座空间站耗资1000亿美元，三年前才建成，这么快就报废的话，始终显得不太现实。奥巴马政府后来宣布，希望取消月球计划，同时首次延长了空间站的使用寿命至2020年。
Mr. Gerstenmaier said that unexpected challenges would still pop up at the station.
格斯登美尔表示，空间站还有可能面临一些意料之外的挑战。
“This is going to be life on the frontier,” he said. Last month, a valve in a cooling pump failed, curtailing work on the station until astronauts installed a spare pump, an incident that illustrated the need for more reliable systems for deep space missions.
“这将是一种拓荒生活，”他说。上个月，冷却泵的一个阀门发生故障，限制了空间站的工作，直到宇航员们安装了一个备用泵。这一事件表明，要想执行外太空的任务，尚需更可靠的系统。
“If I’m going to go beyond low-Earth orbit, I have a lot of work that I still need to do,” Mr. Gerstenmaier said. “I need to understand how the human performs in spaceflight. How can I make sure I have a pump system for a three-year or two-year trip to Mars and back?”
“如果要超越近地轨道，我们还需要做很多事情，”格斯登美尔说。“我们需要了解人类在宇宙飞行中的表现如何。我们如何保证，在往返火星的三年或两年旅行中有可靠的泵系统？”
A cargo rocket that was to be launched to the space station on Wednesday by Orbital Sciences was delayed until at least Thursday, because of an explosion on the sun and the torrent of charged particles that could have interfered with the spacecraft’s electronics.
轨道科学公司原定于周三发射一枚货运火箭去往空间站，不过被迫推迟到了至少周四，原因是出现了太阳耀斑，其喷发的带电粒子流可能干扰航天器的电子设备。