LOS ANGELES — The National Basketball Association on Tuesday handed a lifetime ban to the longtime Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling, an extraordinary step in professional sports and one intended to rid the league of Mr. Sterling after he was recorded making racist comments.
洛杉矶——周二，美国职业篮球协会（National Basketball Association，简称NBA）公布了永久封杀洛杉矶快船队(Los Angeles Clippers)的长期老板唐纳德·斯特林(Donald Sterling)的决定。这是职业体育领域中非同寻常的举措，目的是将斯特林逐出联盟，因为录音显示他发表了种族歧视言论。
Commissioner Adam Silver said the N.B.A. would try to force Mr. Sterling to sell the Clippers, fully expecting to get the necessary three-quarters approval from other team owners. It would be a rare, if not unprecedented, move for a North American professional sports league — made even more unusual by the fact that the N.B.A. is punishing Mr. Sterling for comments he made in a private conversation.
NBA总裁亚当·萧华(Adam Silver)表示，联盟将设法迫使斯特林出售快船队，并且十分希望这一决定能获得所需的四分之三联盟球队老板的赞同。对于一个北美职业体育联盟来说，此举即使算不是史无前例，也实属罕见。NBA因为斯特林在私人谈话中发表的言论而对其进行处罚的事实，也使这项决定变得更加不同寻常。
Mr. Sterling was also fined $2.5 million, the largest that league bylaws would allow, but a small percentage of his estimated $1.9 billion fortune. It is unclear how Mr. Sterling, who is believed to be 80, will respond. He has made no public comments in his defense since the episode began.
斯特林还被处以250万美元（约合1600万元人民币）的罚款，即NBA章程允许的最高罚金。不过，据估计，斯特林拥有19亿美元的财富，罚款金额只是九牛一毛。斯特林据说现年80岁，目前尚不清楚他会作何反应。事件发生以后，他没有公开发表评论，为自己辩护。
“The views expressed by Mr. Sterling are deeply offensive and harmful,” Mr. Silver said. “We stand together in condemning Mr. Sterling’s views. They simply have no place in the N.B.A.”
“斯特林表达的观点极其无礼而有害，” 萧华说。“我们共同谴责斯特林的观点。NBA绝不容许它们的存在。”
Dozens of players and several team owners quickly released statements applauding Mr. Silver’s move. Even the Clippers’ organization, apparently freed from the fear of repercussion from their unpopular owner, released one with the approval of Andy Roeser, the team president, and Doc Rivers, the team’s head coach.
数十名球员和几名球队老板立即发表声明，称赞萧华的举措。在球队总裁安迪·勒泽(Andy Roeser)、主教练道格·里弗斯(Doc Rivers)的支持下，快船队甚至也发表了声明，他们显然不再担心这名不受欢迎的老板的反应。
“We wholeheartedly support and embrace the decision by the N.B.A. and Commissioner Adam Silver today,” the Clippers’ statement read. “Now the healing process begins.”
“我们全力支持并欢迎NBA及总裁亚当·萧华今天的决定，”快船队发表声明称。“现在，弥合的过程开始了。”
The team’s website featured an all-black background on its home page, and a simple message: “We Are One.”
快船队网站的主页已经变成全黑背景，上书一条简单的讯息：“我们团结一心。”
The controversy began over the weekend with the public release of audio clips of Mr. Sterling making wide-ranging racist remarks in a conversation with a female acquaintance. He was perturbed that the woman posted online pictures of herself with black men, including Magic Johnson, who played his Hall of Fame career with the Los Angeles Lakers.
斯特林与一名女性朋友交谈时发表了广泛的种族歧视言论。上周末，这些对话录音片段被曝光，因此引发争议。他对该名女子在网上公开她与“魔术师”约翰逊(Magic Johnson)等黑人的合照而感到不满。约翰逊曾效力于洛杉矶湖人队，并因此入选名人堂。
“Don’t put him on Instagram for the world to see so they have to call me,” Mr. Sterling said, in recordings released by TMZ. “And don’t bring him to my games. Yeah, it bothers me a lot that you want to promo, broadcast, that you’re associating with black people. Do you have to?”
“别把他的照片放到Instagram上让全世界都看见，这样他们会给我打电话，”在TMZ网站公布的录音中，斯特林说。“不要带他来看我们队的比赛。你想公开宣传在和黑人来往，是的，这让我感到很烦。你一定要这样吗？”
Mr. Sterling has made no public comment about whether the voice was his, but Mr. Silver said the N.B.A.’s investigation revealed that the voice belonged to him, and that Mr. Sterling admitted that the words were his.
斯特林没有公开评论这个声音是否来自于他，但萧华表示，NBA开展的调查显示，声音的确来自斯特林，而且他也承认话是自己讲的。
Mr. Silver did not elaborate on what grounds, specifically, the league believed it could force Mr. Sterling to sell the team, nor did he make clear how a transfer of ownership might be conducted. The Clippers are valued at more than $500 million.
萧华没有详细解释NBA认为联盟能迫使斯特林出售球队的依据，也没有说明可能会如何进行球队的转让工作。快船的市值超过5亿美元。
The N.B.A.’s response to Mr. Sterling’s comments may put an end to one of the more criticized ownership tenures in American sports. Mr. Sterling bought the San Diego Clippers in 1981 and moved them to Los Angeles in 1984, deep in the shadow of the popular and successful Lakers. The Clippers spent decades as a consistent joke, with Mr. Sterling the easy punch line. The team managed just one winning season in Mr. Sterling’s first 24 years as owner, and still has never made it past the second round of the playoffs.
NBA对斯特林言论的回应可能会终止这名在美国体育界饱受批评的老板的所有权。斯特林在1981年收购了圣迭戈快船队(San Diego Clippers)，并于1984年将其搬到洛杉矶。该队一直处于广受欢迎且十分成功的湖人队(Lakers)的浓重阴影之下。几十年里，快船队一直是个笑话，而斯特林本人也很容易沦为笑柄。在他担任老板的前24年间，快船队只有一个赛季胜率过半，而且从未突破季后赛第二轮。
But a few years of high draft choices and strong basketball management have turned the Clippers into a burgeoning league power with an enviably deep and talented roster.
然而，几年来的高选秀排位及有力的球队管理举措已经使快船队转型为迅速成长的联盟队伍，拥有令人羡慕的天才队员。
The N.B.A. has long been uncomfortable with Mr. Sterling, and not just because of his stewardship of the downtrodden Clippers. He was unsuccessfully sued by the team’s former general manager, the N.B.A. great Elgin Baylor, for age and race discrimination in 2009. Mr. Baylor said in the suit that Mr. Sterling “had a pervasive and ongoing racist attitude” and ran the team with a “Southern plantation-type structure.”
NBA一直对斯特林心怀不满，原因不仅仅是他对快船队的压制性管理。前快船队总经理、NBA巨星埃尔金·贝勒(Elgin Baylor)曾在2009年以年龄及种族歧视为由对斯特林提起诉讼，但最终败诉。贝勒在该案中表示，斯特林“体现了普遍且持续的种族歧视态度”，并且通过“南部种植园式的结构”来管理球队。
That same year, Mr. Sterling paid $2.76 million to settle a housing-discrimination suit brought by the Justice Department on behalf of African-Americans, Latinos and families with children.
同一年，司法部以房屋供给歧视为由代表非裔美国人、拉美裔和有孩子的家庭起诉斯特林。为了和解官司，斯特林支付了276万美元。
Mr. Silver said Tuesday that Mr. Sterling was being barred from the league for his recent comments, but that the owners’ coming decision whether to force him to sell the Clippers would take into account his entire ownership tenure. Mr. Silver said the process to vote on forcing the sale of the team would begin immediately.
萧华在周二表示，斯特林被联盟封杀的决定，是基于他最近的言论，不过，球队老板们接下来决定是否迫使他出售快船队时，会考虑他担任老板期间的整体表现。萧华还称，将会立即启动迫使斯特林出售球队的投票程序。