HONG KONG — When the National Basketball Association commissioner David Stern spent a week in Beijing in the winter of 1987, he had to plead with China Central Television to broadcast N.B.A. games — and he eventually offered to provide content free.
香港——1987年冬，美国国家篮球协会（National Basketball Association，简称NBA）总裁大卫·斯特恩(David Stern)在中国待了一星期。当时，他不得不恳求中央电视台播放NBA的比赛——最后还提出可以免费提供内容。
Now, the N.B.A. is one of the most popular brands in China, and the only American sports league with a significant following throughout Asia. The league has a combined 70 million followers on Sina Weibo and Tencent’s microblog platforms, compared with fewer than 400,000 followers for the National Football League
如今，NBA是中国最受欢迎的品牌之一，也是唯一一个在全亚洲都有众多追随者的美国体育联盟。在新浪微博和腾讯的微博平台上，该联盟加起来总共有7000万粉丝，而美国国家橄榄球联盟(National Football League)的粉丝还不到40万人。
The new commissioner, Adam Silver, who replaced Mr. Stern last month, is hoping to build off that success, with expansion plans across Asia. In China, the basketball league is expanding TV coverage and building lavish sports facilities. In India, it is promoting the sport through after-school programs. In South Korea, it is trading on basketball’s “swag.”
上月接替斯特恩的NBA新任总裁亚当·席尔瓦(Adam Silver)心怀在全亚洲扩张的计划，希望能超越这一成就。在中国，联盟正在扩大电视节目覆盖面，修建豪华的体育设施。在印度，NBA正在通过课外项目推广这项运动。而在韩国，NBA正在拿篮球的“炫酷”做文章。
He has big ambitions.
他雄心勃勃。
Mr. Silver said that N.B.A. China, which had $150 million in revenue in 2012, enjoyed growth “greater than 10 percent” last year, and that he expected double-digit growth for the foreseeable future. While revenue in China is a small fraction of the overall business — the league will generate more than $5.5 billion in global revenue this season — Mr. Silver said the N.B.A. would eventually be bigger internationally than domestically, and Asia was the key factor.
席尔瓦说，同2012年1.5亿美元（约合9.2亿元人民币）的收入相比，NBA中国去年的收入增幅“超过10%”，而且他预计，在可以预见的将来，增长速度将达到两位数。尽管在中国的收入在其全部业务中只占很小一部分——本赛季该联盟在全球获得了超过55亿美元的收入——但席尔瓦表示，NBA在全球的收入最终会比在国内的收入高，而且亚洲是其中的关键因素。
“The U.S. represents less than 5 percent of the world’s population,” Mr. Silver said. “And we have, along with soccer, the most popular sport in the world.”
“美国在世界总人口中所占的比例不及5%，”席尔瓦说，“但我们有和足球一样在全世界受欢迎的运动。”
From the outset, the N.B.A. had to tweak its strategy for the Chinese market.
从一开始，NBA就不得不为了中国市场而调整自己的战略。
Unlike in the United States, there have been no bidding wars for N.B.A. television rights in China, because CCTV is a monopoly there. Although the league and CCTV announced a multiyear deal in 2012 that offered more N.B.A. content to Chinese homes, it is unlikely ever to be as lucrative as the league’s American deal, an eight-year, $7.4 billion contract that expires in 2016.
不同于美国，在中国不会为了争取NBA电视转播权而上演竞标大战，因为央视处于垄断地位。尽管NBA和央视2012年宣布的那份多年期协议规定，将为中国家庭提供更多和NBA有关的内容，但这份协议不大可能像该联盟与在美国签订的那份协议那么有利可图。美国本土的协议是一份价值74亿美元的合同，有效期为8年，将于2016年到期。
So the N.B.A. has largely had to rely on licensing and marketing deals. There are the digital operations, including partnerships with the Chinese Internet giants Sina Corporation and Tencent Holdings that provide live streams of games, and a popular online store on Alibaba’s Tmall site.
因此，NBA不得不主要依赖特许和营销协议。NBA也有数字领域的运作，其中包括与中国互联网巨头新浪和腾讯建立合作关系，以及在阿里巴巴的天猫网站上开了一家受欢迎的网店。
It is developing the N.B.A. Center, a 130,000-square-foot structure that is part of a $1.5 billion complex being built by a Chinese company near Beijing and is set to open next year. The center will include a restaurant, merchandise store, fitness center and multiple full-size basketball courts.
此外，联盟正在打造NBA中心(NBA Center)。该中心面积达13万平方英尺（约合1.2万平方米），是北京附近一处投资15亿美元建筑综合体的一部分。该综合体正由中国一家公司承建。NBA中心定于明年开放，将包含一家餐厅、一家商店、一家健身中心和多个标准篮球场。
“They have a very strong presence on the ground in China, but their biggest obstacle has been the state-owned media market, and that the China sports industry is state-controlled,” said Terry Rhoads, whom Nike hired as its first marketing employee in China in 1994 and who now runs his own sports marketing agency. “But things are improving. China loves basketball too much to deny the N.B.A.”
“他们在中国的知名度很高，但他们最大的障碍是国有的媒体市场，而且中国的体育业是由国家控制的，”1994年被雇为耐克(Nike)在中国的首名营销雇员陆海瑞(Terry Rhoads)说，“但现在，情况正在改善。中国人太喜欢篮球了，不会拒绝NBA。”陆海瑞现在经营着自己的体育营销公司。
The league has also secured licensing deals with major companies. Anheuser-Busch InBev, which owns the Harbin beer brand in China, has N.B.A. logos on its Harbin bottles. They are also emblazoned on Mengniu Milk.
NBA还与多家大公司签订了特许协议。在中国拥有哈尔滨啤酒这个品牌的安海斯-布希英博集团(Anheuser-Busch InBev)把NBA的标志印在哈尔滨啤酒的酒瓶上。NBA的标识还被印在了蒙牛牛奶外包装上的显眼位置。
“They’ve been making a lot of money from licensing its logo to a large variety of companies, and these products do very well because Chinese fans know the N.B.A. is the highest level of what they do, and not many brands can say that,” said Matt Beyer, who holds a government-certified sports agent license.
“他们向众多公司授权使用自己的标志，从中赚了很多钱，这些产品都卖得很好，因为中国的篮球迷知道，NBA代表着最高水平，能这么说的品牌不多，”拥有政府认证的体育经纪人资质的马特·拜尔(Matt Beyer)说。
The league has used its experience in China as a jumping-off point to the rest of Asia.
NBA把在中国的经验当做向亚洲其他地方扩张的跳板。
In 1990, the league opened an office in Hong Kong to handle all business in Asia, including China, at the time just a single employee working out of an apartment. Today, N.B.A. Asia has a staff of more than 100 across offices in Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea and India.
1990年，联盟在香港设立办事处，处理包括中国在内的亚洲所有业务。当时，只有一名员工在一套公寓里办公。如今，NBA亚洲(NBA Asia)的员工超过100人，分布在香港、台湾、韩国和印度的办公室。
“The definition of Asia doesn’t exist for us,” said Scott Levy, the office’s senior vice president and managing director. “We look at each country and see what our strategy is there.”
NBA亚洲高级副总裁兼董事总经理斯科特·莱维(Scott Levy)说，“对于我们来说，不存在亚洲的概念。我们着眼于每一个国家，拟定我们在这个国家的策略。”
For example, the league focused on pop culture in South Korea. Three years ago, the league signed a deal with the South Korean apparel maker MK Trend and gave the Seoul-based company freedom to alter its team colors. MK Trend’s N.B.A. apparel, with bright pastel colors and shiny “bling,” became a top seller in the country, and can often be seen on South Korean television, in programming like Girls’ Generation music videos and the hit show “Running Man.”
例如，NBA在韩国专注于流行文化。三年前，NBA与韩国服装品牌MK Trend签署了一项协议，让这家总部位于首尔的公司有权改变NBA球队服装的颜色。MK Trend推出的NBA系列服饰拥有清新明亮的颜色和绚丽夺目的装饰，在韩国十分畅销，韩国的电视节目上常常有人穿着这一系列的服装，包括“少女时代”(Girls’ Generation)的音乐电视，以及火爆的综艺节目《跑起来，好兄弟》(Running Man)。
“We took advantage of the N.B.A.'s image as a hip lifestyle brand,” said Michael Kim, chief executive of MK Trend. “Korean stars want to wear our N.B.A. gear, and that, in turn, leads to increased sales.”
MK Trend的首席执行官迈克尔·金(Michael Kim)说，“我们利用了NBA这个时髦生活方式的品牌形象。韩国明星都想要穿我们的NBA系列的服装，这带动了销售的增长。”
With South Korean pop culture influential throughout Asia, Mr. Kim said tourists from China and Japan turn up at his stores with photos of K-pop stars wearing N.B.A. caps and ask for the same item. MK Trend will branch out into China this May, with more stores in Macau and Hong Kong this year.
金说，由于韩国的流行文化在整个亚洲的影响力，来自中国和日本的游客经常拿着韩国明星的照片到店里，要求购买照片上明星头上戴着的NBA系列帽子的同款产品。MK Trend在中国大陆的分店将于今年5月开张，该品牌今年还会在澳门和香港增设门店。
Across Asia, the league is relying on grass-roots projects to help build awareness.
在亚洲各地，NBA正在依靠大众参与的项目提高知名度。