The enormous ratings for last week’s live version of “The Sound of Music,” which reached 18.6 million viewers, have NBC’s top entertainment executive pushing the button on a follow-up.
上周，NBC的现场直播版《音乐之声》(The Sound of Music)的收视人数达到了1860万。超高的收视率让公司娱乐部门的老板准备制作更多的类似节目。
Robert Greenblatt, the chairman of NBC’s entertainment division, said on Monday that the network would mount another live production next year for the holidays that would be led by the “Sound of Music” executive producers, Neil Meron and Craig Zadan. In a telephone interview, the three men said they had begun work on selecting another musical. Mr. Greenblatt said they were “circling a couple of titles” that fit their prerequisites: family-friendly Broadway classics with a lot of familiar songs.
NBC娱乐部主席罗伯特·格林布拉特(Robert Greenblatt)周一表示，公司明年将再次启动一档节日季直播节目，牵头的还是《音乐之声》的执行制片人尼尔·梅伦(Neil Meron)和克雷格·扎丹(Craig Zadan)。三人接受电话采访称，他们已开始挑选另一部音乐剧。格林布拉特说，他们在“研究几部”满足前提条件的剧目：合家欢的百老汇经典，包括许多观众耳熟能详的曲子。
“All weekend, people have been calling us and emailing us,” Mr. Greenblatt said. “Rights holders of musicals have said, ‘Please do one of our shows.’ We’re excited to try it again.”
“整个周末，我们不断地接到电话和邮件，”格林布拉特说。“好些音乐剧的版权所有人说，‘做我们的剧吧。’我们很高兴再试一次。”
And that probably means more than once. Mr. Greenblatt said there were at least a handful of titles the network believed it could present, making live musicals an annual holiday event.
这很可能意味着不止再试一次。格林布拉特表示，NBC认为至少有五部剧可以搬上小屏幕，让现场直播版的音乐剧成为年度节日秀。
“There’s enough to do a handful of these over the next years, if we keep increasing the learning curve,” he said. “There may be a little bit of a phenomenon to the first one of these. Who knows what happens Year 2, 3 or 4. But you’ve got to have events. I think we could do this again — and again and again.”
“如果我们掌握了学习曲线的话，足以在接下来几年做上五、六部，”他说。“其中的第一部或许多少有点一鸣惊人。谁知道接下来的二三四年是怎么回事呢？不过，反正我们也要上节目。我觉得我们可以再来一次，甚至再来好几次。”
The next project should not take as long to prepare, Mr. Greenblatt said. “We worked on this one for at least 18 months,” he said. “Now that we have done it once, we don’t need 18 months again. We know a lot about how to do it.”
格林布拉特认为，下次的剧目应该不用花同样长的时间来准备。“这次花了至少18个月，”他说。“现在既然已经做过一次了，就不需要再用18个月。我们明白了不少制作方法。”
One crucial element to the success of “The Sound of Music,” Mr. Meron said, was securing Carrie Underwood, the country music star who played Maria, the role made famous by Julie Andrews in the 1965 movie. “She really delivered her audience, her fan base,” Mr. Meron said. The executives said that the ratings were three times what they had predicted.
梅伦称，《音乐之声》成功的一个关键因素是锁定了乡村音乐明星凯莉·安德伍德(Carrie Underwood)来扮演女主角玛丽亚。由于朱莉·安德鲁斯(Julie Andrews)在1965年的同名电影中的演绎，这一角色家喻户晓。“她的确打动了观众、她的粉丝，”梅伦说。三人表示，收视率是他们之前预测的三倍。
That was a clear reason the producers pursued Ms. Underwood, despite her thin acting résumé. “I’m not sure almost 20 million people would have come out for a lot of other names,” Mr. Greenblatt said. He noted that other stars widely suggested as better casting choices than Ms. Underwood, like Anne Hathaway, would not have set aside the 10 months required to prepare for the live performance.
这显然是制作人找安德伍德来演的原因之一，尽管她的表演履历相当单薄。“我可不觉得其他人也会有近2000万的号召力，”格林布拉特说。有一些明星被认为是比安德伍德更合适的人选，比如安妮·海瑟薇(Anne Hathaway)。不过，格林布拉特指出，她们没法空出所需的10个月时间来为这次的现场直播做准备。
Ms. Underwood also bore the brunt of the attention, some of it harsh, directed toward the show. A lot of that came from live commentary on social media sites. Mr. Zadan said that no matter who was cast, people “were all going to say, ‘How dare you compete with Julie Andrews?’ ”
节目所受的关注中，也是安德伍德首当其冲，其中一些颇为严厉，其中不少来自社交网站的实时评论。扎丹称，不管找谁来演，人们“都会说，‘你怎么敢跟朱莉·安德鲁斯比？’”
Despite that criticism, the producers extolled the value of social media.
尽管有这样的批评，制作人还是为社交媒体的价值说好话。
“Social media played a pivotal role in the success of the show,” Mr. Zadan said, noting Twitter and Facebook traffic “that lasted the entire performance and beyond.”
扎丹说，“社交媒体对我们节目的成功起到了关键作用。”他还表示，相关的Twitter和Facebook高流量“贯穿了节目始终，并延续了下去”。
Of course, a good portion of that consisted of snarky comments about Ms. Underwood’s acting abilities and about distractions like ambient noise in the studio and accompaniment that was too loud. Professional critics also took some shots — Alessandra Stanley, chief television critic for The New York Times, wrote that the performance “felt muted and a little sad” — though many, even in picking apart some elements, congratulated NBC for its willingness to try something challenging.
当然，其中不少包含吐槽成分，比如安德伍德的演技，以及演播室里的环境噪声和过响的伴奏让人分心。专业评论也出了几拳：《纽约时报》的首席电视评论人亚历珊德拉·斯坦利(Alessandra Stanley)撰文指出，表演“沉闷，略带伤感”。不过，就算对部分元素大肆批判，许多人还是祝贺NBC敢于尝试有挑战性的东西。
Typical was a review on The Daily Beast, by Kevin Fallon, who wrote, “It’s the least we can do to drop any cynicism over the project and harsh reaction to the execution of it and appreciate the huge gamble and undertaking it was to reanimate those mountains, and how fun it was to — even without Julie Andrews and even if it was kind of a mess — be twirling on them again.”
凯文·法伦(Kevin Fallon)在“每日野兽”(The Daily Beast)网站上发表的评论颇为典型。文中称，“我们起码可以放下对节目本身的牢骚、对表演的大力吐槽，来赞赏一下重新激活这部戏要冒上的巨大风险和工作量，以及重温此剧的种种乐趣——即便它没有朱莉·安德鲁斯，即便它有些乱糟糟。”
Mr. Meron said, “When you have something this big, you expect a little snark.”
梅伦说，“做这么大一件事，就得准备好经受点冷嘲热讽。”
Mr. Greenblatt also noted: “There is no snarkier universe than the Broadway world. It just sort of invites it. It’s O.K. I’d rather have people deeply engaged than ignoring it. Somebody I once worked for said to me once, ‘Everybody hated it but the audience.’ And I’ll take that.”
格林布拉特也说，“百老汇是全世界最刻薄的圈子，根本就是有点爱招惹刻薄。没关系。比起遭到忽略，我宁可大家深度参与。我以前工作时的老板曾经说过，‘除了观众，每个人都痛恨它。’这个我可以接受。”