The fast-moving national reckoning over sexual harassment in the workplace toppled another television news star Wednesday when NBC fired Matt Lauer, the co-host of its most profitable franchise, “Today,” after an allegation of inappropriate sexual behavior with a subordinate.
周三，全美快速发展的对职场性骚扰的清算导致另一位电视新闻的明星人物落马。NBC在收到与下属有不适当性行为的指控后，解雇了其最赚钱的节目《今日》(Today)的主持人马特·劳尔(Matt Lauer)。
NBC News told its staff that it was firing Lauer some 34 hours after the woman and her lawyer visited the network headquarters in New York City to share details of her interactions with Lauer with company executives.
NBC新闻(NBC News)对员工表示，在解雇劳尔的大约34个小时前，一名女性和她的律师来到电视台位于纽约市的总部，向公司高管讲述了与劳尔往来的细节。
On Wednesday, NBC received at least two more complaints related to Lauer, according to a person briefed on the network’s handling of the matter. One complaint came from a former employee who said Lauer had summoned her to his office in 2001 and then had sex with her. She provided her account to The New York Times but declined to let her name be used.
据一名了解该电视台对此事处理情况的人士称，NBC周三又接到了至少两起和劳尔有关的投诉。其中一起来自一名前员工，对方称2001年劳尔把她叫到自己的办公室，然后与她发生了关系。她向《纽约时报》讲述了事情经过，但拒绝公开自己的姓名。
She told the Times that she felt helpless because she didn’t want to lose her job, and that she didn’t report the encounter at the time because she felt ashamed.
她对时报说，她感到无助，因为她不想丢掉工作，并且她当时也没有举报这件事，因为她感到羞耻。
The woman told her husband about the encounter at the time, which The Times confirmed with him in a phone call. The couple was separated at the time, and later divorced. She also told a friend about it five years ago, which the friend also confirmed.
当时，这名女子将此事告诉了丈夫。时报通过电话跟他确认了这一点。这对夫妇当时处于分居状态，后来离婚。她还在五年前和一个朋友说过此事，这名友人也予以了证实。
Representatives for Lauer did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
劳尔的代表没有立即回复置评请求。
It was the complaint on Monday that prompted NBC to take action. “On Monday night, we received a detailed complaint from a colleague about inappropriate sexual behavior in the workplace by Matt Lauer,” Andrew Lack, the NBC News chairman, said in a memo to the staff. “While it is the first complaint about his behavior in the over 20 years he’s been at NBC News, we were also presented with reason to believe this may not have been an isolated incident.”
正是周一的投诉促使NBC采取行动。“周一晚上，我们收到了一名同事有关马特·劳尔在工作场所的不当性行为的详细投诉，”NBC新闻的董事长安德鲁·拉克(Andrew Lack)在给员工的备忘录中写道。“尽管这是他在NBC新闻工作20多年来我们首次收到有关其行为的投诉，但我们也有理由相信，这可能不是一起孤立事件。”
In a division-wide meeting with his staff later in the morning, Lack said that Lauer’s involvement with the woman began while they were in Sochi, Russia, for the Winter Olympics in 2014, according to two people briefed on the meeting, and that their involvement continued after they returned to New York.
据两名了解会议情况的人士介绍，在上午晚些时候同员工召开的部门会议上，拉克说，劳尔与这名女子的关系开始于他们2014年在俄罗斯索契报道冬奥会期间，并且持续到了两人回到纽约后。
The woman met with reporters from The Times earlier Monday, but said she was not ready to discuss it publicly.
周一早些时候，这名女子接受了时报记者的采访，但她表示还没准备好公开讨论此事。