The Primetime Emmy Awards, which bestowed its first honors on black-and-white game shows and anthologies 65 years ago, suddenly seems downright futuristic.
黄金时段艾美奖创始于65年前，最早授予黑白游戏秀节目和集锦，突然之间，它就显示出未来主义倾向。
On Thursday, the online streaming network Netflix, best known until recently for rerunning other companies’ old shows and films, officially joined its cable and broadcast counterparts in the race for television’s most prestigious prizes, picking up more than a dozen nominations, including a best drama nod for its political thriller “House of Cards.”
在线流媒体Netfliex近年来刚刚以重拍其他公司的老剧和电影而异军突起，如今，它正式投身艾美奖竞赛，与其他有线台和公共台对手们角逐这一电视界最受尊崇的奖项。周四，它获得了十几项提名，其中政治惊悚片《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)更是获得剧情类最佳剧集评委的首肯。
Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright, who portray the scheming husband and wife at the center of “House of Cards,” were also nominated as lead actor and actress. The announcements represented the first time that series distributed via the Internet, not television, were nominated in top Emmy categories.
凯文·斯佩西(Kevin Spacey)和罗宾·怀特(Robin Wright)饰演《纸牌屋》的主角，一对诡计多端的夫妇，他们也分获最佳男女主角提名。这些提名标志着通过互联网，而不是电视播出的连续剧第一次获得艾美奖重要奖项的提名。
Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s chief content officer, said he was thankful that the Emmy voters were “so open to the idea” of Internet distribution, something that will seem like a no-brainer in the future, but that had few precedents until this year.
Netflix的首席内容执行官泰德·萨兰多斯(Ted Sarandos)说，他很感激艾美奖的评委们对互联网发行这个概念“有如此开放的心态”——在未来，互联网发行会被视为理所当然之事，但直到今年为止还几乎没有先例。
“In a way, it solidifies that television is television, no matter what pipe brings it to the screen,” he said in a telephone interview.Mordecai Wiczyk, a co-founder of Media Rights Capital, the studio that produced the series, said, “For us, what it shows is that if you support great artists and they do great work, they get recognized.”
“它以某种方式证明，不管通过什么渠道把节目送上屏幕，电视就是电视，”他在电话采访中说。《纸牌屋》的制片公司Media Rights Capital创始人之一莫德赛·维克奇克(Mordecai Wiczyk)说：“对于我们而言，获奖揭示出这样一个道理：只要你支持优秀的艺术家，让他们做好工作，肯定会获得认可。”
“The means of delivery and distribution are secondary to whether the work is great,” he added.
“最重要的是作品要出色，发行和传播方式是第二位的，”他说。
Netflix had campaigned for nominations for both “House of Cards” and “Arrested Development,” the canceled Fox sitcom that it revived to much fanfare this year. Mr. Sarandos acknowledged some disappointment that “Arrested” was not among the six shows nominated for outstanding comedy. In a consolation of sorts, one of the show’s stars, Jason Bateman, was included in the lead actor in a comedy category, one of the three nominations “Arrested” earned.
此前Netflix为《纸牌屋》和《发展受阻》(Arrested Development)能获得提名发动了宣传攻势，《发展受阻》是Fox一部被砍的情景喜剧，今年大张旗鼓地复活了。萨兰多斯承认，《发展受阻》并未跻身艾美奖的6部最佳喜剧片提名，让他有些失望。令人安慰的是，该片演员之一杰森·贝特曼(Jason Bateman)获得喜剧类最佳男主角提名，《发展受阻》共获得三项提名。
Over all, Netflix picked up 14 Emmy nominations: 9 for “House of Cards,” including 1 for David Fincher, who directed the first episode; 3 for “Arrested Development;” and 2 for “Hemlock Grove,” a horror series that had its debut in the spring.
Netflix总共获得14项艾美奖提名：《纸牌屋》独揽9项，其中导演了该剧第一集的大卫·芬奇(David Fincher)获得剧情类最佳导演提名；《发展受阻》获得3项提名；春季首播的恐怖剧《铁杉树丛》(Hemlock Grove)获得二项提名。
Its rival HBO, which has been making critically acclaimed shows for decades, had 108 nominations, its highest total in nearly a decade. Last year it earned 81.
Netflix的竞争对手HBO几十年来一直拍摄广受评论界好评的剧集，此次获得108项提名，创造了十年来的最高纪录，去年它获得81项提名。
Nominees in major categories are listed below. The full list is available at emmys.com.
重要奖项的提名列在本文最后。完整名单请见emmys.com。
The race that is traditionally the most closely watched in the TV industry is outstanding drama. In that category, “House of Cards” will challenge one HBO series, “Game of Thrones,” as well as last year’s winner, “Homeland,” from Showtime, and the four-time winner “Mad Men” on AMC. PBS’s “Downton Abbey” and AMC’s “Breaking Bad” were also nominated.
通常电视行业最关注的是剧情类最佳剧集奖项的角逐。在该类别中，与《纸牌屋》竞争的有HBO剧集《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)和去年该奖得主，Showtime的《国土安全》(Homeland)，以及四届最佳剧集得主，AMC的《广告狂人》(Mad Men)。PBS的《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)和AMC的《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)也获得提名。
In part because of Netflix, competition in the major acting categories was stiffer than ever, as evidenced by the absence of the actress Julianna Margulies, who had been nominated for “The Good Wife” for the past three years and had won in 2011. The new FX drama “The Americans” was also shut out from the major categories. Otherwise the surprises were relatively few and far between; in the lead actor in a drama category, Damian Lewis of “Homeland” was joined by Bryan Cranston of “Breaking Bad,” Hugh Bonneville of “Downton Abbey,” Jon Hamm of “Mad Men,” Mr. Spacey and, in the only major nod to HBO’s “Newsroom,” Jeff Daniels.
部分是因为Netflix的出现，最佳主角奖的竞争也比往年激烈，从朱莉安娜·玛格丽丝(Julianna Margulies)的落选便可见一斑，她在过去三年里都因《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)中的角色而获提名，并于2011年赢得最佳女主角奖。FX剧情新剧《美国谍梦》(The Americans)也未获得重要奖项提名。此外就没有什么冷门诞生。《国土安全》的戴米恩·刘易斯(Damian Lewis)将与《绝命毒师》的布莱恩·克兰斯顿(Bryan Cranston)、《唐顿庄园》的休·博内威利(Hugh Bonneville)、《广告狂人》的乔·哈姆(Jon Hamm)以及斯佩西竞争剧情类最佳男主角奖项，此外还有HBO的《新闻编辑室》(Newsroom)主演杰夫·丹尼尔斯(Jeff Daniels)，这是该剧获得的唯一一项重要提名。
In the lead actress category, last year’s winner, Claire Danes, also of “Homeland,” was joined by Vera Farmiga of “Bates Motel” on A&E, Michelle Dockery of “Downton Abbey,” Elisabeth Moss of “Mad Men,” Ms. Wright and two stars of ABC dramas, Connie Britton of “Nashville” and Kerry Washington of “Scandal.”
在最佳女主角环节，竞争者包括去年的获奖者，《国土安全》的克莱尔·丹尼斯(Claire Danes)、A&E的《贝茨旅馆》(Bates Motel)的维拉·法米加(Vera Farmiga)、《唐顿庄园》的米歇尔·道克瑞(Michelle Dockery)、《广告狂人》的伊丽莎白·莫斯(Elisabeth Moss)、罗宾·怀特、以及ABC剧情类剧集的两名女主演，《音乐之乡》(Nashville)的康妮·布里登(Connie Britton)和《丑闻》(Scandal)的凯莉·华盛顿(Kerry Washington)。
“It is always a real surprise and a real thrill,” Ms. Britton said of her nomination, which followed several previous nods, for her roles on NBC’s “Friday Night Lights” and FX’s “American Horror Story.”
“这确实又惊奇又刺激，”布里登谈起自己获得提名时这样说，之前她也曾因自己在NBC剧集《胜利之光》(Friday Night Lights)和FX剧集《美国恐怖故事》(American Horror Story)中的表演获得提名。
The most-nominated show was “American Horror Story: Asylum,” which was submitted as a mini-series, and which received 17 nominations. “Game of Thrones” was the most-nominated drama, with 16 nominations, and “30 Rock” was the most-nominated sitcom, with 13. NBC’s “Saturday Night Live” picked up 15 nominations, a record for that 38-year-old show.
获得最多提名的剧集是《美国恐怖故事：精神病院》(American Horror Story: Asylum)，它作为迷你剧参赛，共获得17项提名；《权力的游戏》获得16项提名，是获得提名最多的剧情类剧集；《我为喜剧狂》(30 Rock)获13项提名，是获得最多提名的喜剧类剧集。NBC拥有38年历史的《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)获得15项提名，创造了该节目获得提名的纪录。
For NBC’s “30 Rock,” which won the best comedy Emmy in 2007, 2008 and 2009, this year is its last opportunity to take the prize back from ABC’s “Modern Family,” which has taken home the award for the past three years. Those two shows were nominated, along with HBO’s “Girls” and “Veep,” FX’s “Louie” and CBS’s “Big Bang Theory.”
NBC的《我为喜剧狂》曾在2007、2008和2009年获得艾美奖喜剧类最佳剧集奖，此后该奖项连续三年由ABC的《摩登家庭》(Modern Family)获得，今年是《我为喜剧狂》夺回该奖的最后机会。除了这两部剧集，获得喜剧类最佳剧集提名的还有HBO的《都市女孩》(Girls)和《二当家》(Veep)、FX的《路易不容易》(Louie)以及CBS的《生活大爆炸》(Big Bang Theory)。
With three shows in contention for the top comedy prize, the broadcast networks fared better in comedies than in dramas, continuing a pattern that is now several years old. This year, just as last, none of the commercial networks earned a best drama nomination, though the noncommercial PBS did for “Downton Abbey.”
公共台有三部剧集竞争最佳喜剧类剧集，它们在喜剧类的表现比剧情类更加出色，这延续了最近几年来的一贯模式。今年和去年一样，商业公共台并未获得任何最佳剧情类剧集提名，只有非商业公共台PBS的《唐顿庄园》获得提名。
The nominations were announced by the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, the governing body that has overseen the awards since 1948.
各项提名由电视艺术与科学学院(Academy of Television Arts and Sciences)宣布，该主管机构自1948年开始管理艾美奖。
The academy’s chairman, Bruce Rosenblum, invoked the evolution that Netflix epitomizes in his opening remarks at a predawn news conference in Los Angeles. “Television is on broadcast, on cable and on demand over the Internet,” he said. “This is truly an exciting time for us to be honoring the best of television.”
学院主席布鲁斯·罗森布伦姆(Bruce Rosenblum)在洛杉矶于黎明举行的新闻发布会上做开场致辞，其中特别提到了Netflix的发展。“电视以无线、有线和互联网的形式进行传播，”他说，“这对于我们这些为最佳电视节目加冕的人来说，真是一个令人兴奋的时代。”
Some people on Thursday drew analogies between the rise of HBO a generation ago and the rise of Netflix now. The results in both cases have included more choices for viewers and more competition for actors, writers and directors. It seems likely that the academy will consider opening up the major categories to more nominees in the future.
星期四，有人把Netflix的崛起同HBO上代的崛起相对比。两家电台的成功都建立在为观众提供更多选择，以及努力争取好的演员、编剧与导演基础上。目前学院似乎在考虑，未来会增加重要奖项的提名者数量。
For Netflix, the nominations were another feather in an already stuffed cap, coming almost six months after the release of “House of Cards,” the first Netflix series that was perceived to be as good as anything on HBO, Showtime or AMC. Emmy speculation surrounded “House of Cards” from the day all 13 episodes made their debuts at the same time online, in part because the academy’s eligibility rules were adjusted in the mid-2000s to include Internet-distributed shows. (When that happened, Netflix’s streaming service hadn’t even started yet. The company was still just shipping DVDs by mail.)
6个月前播出的《纸牌屋》是Netflix第一部能与HBO、Showtime或AMC比肩的剧集，对它来说，艾美奖的众多提名无疑是锦上添花。《纸牌屋》是以13集可以同一天在线收看的形式发布的，自它发布之日起，就有不断有人推测它可能获得艾美奖，部分是因为2005年左右，学院更改了提名资格的相关规则，通过互联网发布的剧集也可以获得提名（当时Netflix还未开展流媒体服务，公司仍然在搞邮购DVD业务）。
In recent years, online shows like “Web Therapy” and “Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog” have been nominated in short-form categories, but the Internet’s presence hadn’t been felt in major categories like acting and directing. A series that Netflix imported from Scandinavia, “Lilyhammer,” was eligible for awards last year but did not receive any nominations. Of course, that series did not break through to the wider public in the way that “House of Cards” did. Netflix lobbied aggressively for Emmy nominations for both this year, even putting out election-style lawn signs in West Hollywood.
近年来，在线剧集《网疗记》(Web Therapy)和《恐怖博士的欢唱博客》(Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog)都曾获得最佳短剧类提名，但在最佳演员和最佳导演等重要奖项里却看不到互联网的影响。Netflix去年从北欧引进的剧集《莉莉海默》(Lilyhammer)满足提名资格，但却没有获得任何提名。当然，那部剧并没有像《纸牌屋》这样被更广泛的公众所接受。今年，Netflix为它的两部剧能获得艾美奖提名做了积极的游说工作，甚至在西好莱坞打出政客竞选风格的草坪广告。
But the effects of Emmy nominations — or victories — will be tough for Netflix to measure. What the awards provide is a kind of confirmation of the industry’s respect and admiration, something that doesn’t immediately translate to its bottom line but is appreciated nonetheless.
但是获得艾美奖提名乃至最终胜利的后果对于Netflix来说可能并不如预期中那么美妙。获得这个奖着得到业界的尊敬和赞美，但并不能马上转化为收入，只是令剧集获得赞赏而已。
Mr. Spacey said in a telephone interview that the method of distribution of “House of Cards” “didn’t change the creative process, because the camera doesn’t know it’s a streaming camera, any more than it’s a TV camera or a film camera.”
斯佩西在接受电话采访时说，《纸牌屋》的传播方式，“并没有影响创作过程，因为镜头不知道自己是‘流媒体镜头’而不是电视镜头或者电影镜头。”
“But,” he added, “it did affect the way we were able to create the series, and that was very exciting.”
“但是，”他补充说，“这的确影响了我们创作剧集的方式，这非常令人兴奋。”
He spoke from Baltimore, where production of the show’s second season is under way. Referring to the at-home viewers’ ability to binge on episodes, he said, “In some ways, Netflix and all of us have maybe learned the lesson the music industry didn’t learn.”
他是在巴尔的摩接受采访的，目前该剧正在那里拍摄第二季。谈到在家收看的观众可能会不加节制，一连收看好几集这个问题，他说：“在某些方面，Netflix和我们大家可能接受了音乐产业没有接受的教训。”
For the next two months — the Emmy winners will be announced on CBS on Sept. 22 — debates will ensue about whether “House of Cards” is worthy of the outstanding drama prize. “Breaking Bad,” after all, has been passed over repeatedly, despite being nominated three times previously. HBO’s “Game of Thrones” has yet to win, too, despite being nominated twice before.
艾美奖的最终得主将于9月22日在CBS台宣布，接下来的两个月里，围绕《纸牌屋》是否能获得最佳剧情类剧集奖项的争议肯定还将继续。毕竟，此前三次获得提名的《绝命毒师》一再空手而归。HBO的《权力的游戏》之前获得两次提名，也始终未能获奖。
Alex Gansa, a creator of “Homeland,” no longer the underdog that it was last year, said: “It’s really nice to get the opportunity to defend our title this year. That’s really the way I feel about it. When you start defending episodes and things, you just can’t help but sound like a whiner. We let the episodes and the season stand on their own.”
去年获奖的《国土安全》的主创之一阿莱克斯·甘萨(Alex Gansa)说：“今年能有机会卫冕，这真是太好了。我的感觉就是这样。当你开始捍卫剧集的荣誉，你会情不自禁地感觉自己像个抱怨者。但我们让每一集以及这一整季靠自己的实力说话。”
The third season of the series will have its debut on Showtime in September, and its success or failure will ultimately matter more than any Emmy statue. “If I’m anxious about anything,” he said, “it’s about the third season, not the second season.”
《国土安全》的第三季将于9月在Showtime上映，它的成败可比艾美奖的奖杯来得重要。“如果我在焦虑什么，”他说，“那也是为第三季担心，而不是第二季。”
2013年黄金时段艾美奖重要提名
Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama SeriesBryan Cranston, “Breaking Bad”Hugh Bonneville, “Downton Abbey”Damian Lewis, “Homeland”Kevin Spacey, “House of Cards”Jon Hamm, “Mad Men”Jeff Daniels, “The Newsroom”
最佳剧情类男主角提名名单：布莱恩·科莱斯顿，《绝命毒师》休·博内威利，《唐顿庄园》戴米恩·刘易斯，《国土安全》凯文·斯佩西，《纸牌屋》乔·哈姆，《广告狂人》杰夫·丹尼尔斯，《新闻编辑室》
Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama SeriesVera Farmiga, “Bates Motel”Michelle Dockery, “Downton Abbey”Claire Danes, “Homeland”Robin Wright, “House of Cards”Elizabeth Moss, “Mad Men”Connie Britton, “Nashville”Kerry Washington, “Scandal”
最佳剧情类女主角提名名单维拉·法米加，《贝兹旅馆》米歇尔·道克瑞，《唐顿庄园》克莱尔·丹尼斯，《国土安全》罗宾·怀特，《纸牌屋》伊丽莎白·莫斯，《广告狂人》康妮·布里登，《音乐之乡》凯莉·华盛顿，《丑闻》
Outstanding Lead Actor in a Miniseries or a MovieMichael Douglas, “Behind the Candelabra”Matt Damon, “Behind the Candelabra”Toby Jones, “The Girl”Benedict Cumberbatch, “Parade’s End”Al Pacino, “Phil Spector”
最佳迷你剧/电影男演员提名名单：迈克尔·道格拉斯(Michael Douglas)，《烛台背后》(Behind the Candelabra)马特·达蒙(Matt Damon)，《烛台背后》托比·琼斯(Toby Jones)，《那个女孩》(The Girl)本尼迪克特·康伯巴奇(Benedict Cumberbatch),《队列之末》(Parade’s End)阿尔·帕西诺(Al Pacino),《菲尔·斯派特》(Phil Spector)
Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a MovieJessica Lange, “American Horror Story: Asylum”Laura Linney, “The Big C: Hereafter”Helen Mirren, “Phil Spector”Sigourney Weaver, “Political Animals”Elisabeth Moss, “Top of the Lake”
最佳迷你剧/电影女演员提名名单：杰西卡·兰格(Jessica Lange),《美国恐怖故事：精神病院》劳拉·琳尼(Laura Linney),《如果还有明天》(The Big C: Hereafter)海伦·米伦(Helen Mirren)，《菲尔·斯派特》西格尼·韦弗(Sigourney Weaver),《政坛野兽》(Political Animals)伊丽莎白·莫斯,《迷湖之巅》(Top of the Lake)
Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy SeriesJason Bateman, “Arrested Development”Jim Parsons, “The Big Bang Theory”Matt LeBlanc, “Episodes”Don Cheadle, “House of Lies”Louis C.K., “Louie”Alec Baldwin, “30 Rock”
喜剧类最佳男主角提名名单：杰森·贝特曼,《发展受阻》吉姆·帕森斯(Jim Parsons)，《生活大爆炸》马特·勒布朗(Matt LeBlanc)，《戏里戏外》(Episodes)唐·钱德尔(Don Cheadle)，《谎言屋》(House of Lies)路易斯·C·K(Louis C.K.)，《路易不容易》亚力克·鲍德温(Alec Baldwin)，《我为喜剧狂》
Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy SeriesLaura Dern, “Enlightened”Lena Dunham, “Girls”Edie Falco, “Nurse Jackie”Amy Poehler, “Parks and Recreation”Tina Fey, “30 Rock”Julia Louis-Dreyfus, “Veep”
喜剧类最佳女主角提名名单：劳拉·邓恩(Laura Dern)，《醍醐灌顶》(Enlightened)莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)，《都市女孩》(Girls)埃迪·法可(Edie Falco)，《护士当家》(Nurse Jackie)艾米·波勒(Amy Poehler)，《公园与游憩》(Parks and Recreation)蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)，《我为喜剧狂》茱莉亚·路易斯-德利法斯(Julia Louis-Dreyfus)，《二当家》
Outstanding Reality-Competition Program“The Amazing Race”“Dancing With the Stars”“Project Runway”“So You Think You Can Dance”“Top Chef”“The Voice”
最佳竞赛类真人秀提名名单：《极速前进》(The Amazing Race)《与星共舞》(Dancing with the Stars)《天桥骄子》(Project Runway)《舞林争霸》(So You Think You Can Dance)《顶级大厨》(Top Chef)《美国之声》(The Voice)
Outstanding Variety Series“The Colbert Report”“The Daily Show With Jon Stewart”“Jimmy Kimmel Live”“Late Night With Jimmy Fallon”“Real Time With Bill Maher”“Saturday Night Live”
最佳综艺节目提名名单：《科尔伯特报告》(The Colbert Report)《乔恩·斯图尔特每日秀》(The Daily Show With Jon Stewart《吉米·凯莫直播秀》(Jimmy Kimmel Live)《吉米·法伦深夜秀》(Late Night With Jimmy Fallon)《马赫脱口秀》(Real Time With Bill Maher)《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)
Outstanding Miniseries or Movie“American Horror Story: Asylum”“Behind the Candelabra”“The Bible”“Phil Spector”“Political Animals”“Top of the Lake”
最佳迷你剧/电视电影提名名单：《美国恐怖故事：精神病院》《烛台背后》《圣经故事》(The Bible)《菲尔·斯派特》《政坛野兽》《迷湖之巅》
Outstanding Comedy Series“The Big Bang Theory”“Girls”“Louie”“Modern Family”“30 Rock”“Veep”
最佳喜剧剧集提名名单:《生活大爆炸》《都市女孩》《路易不容易》《摩登家庭》《我为喜剧狂》《二当家》
Outstanding Drama Series“Breaking Bad”“Downton Abbey”“Game of Thrones”“Homeland”“House of Cards”“Mad Men”
最佳剧情类剧集提名名单：《绝命毒师》《唐顿庄园》《权力的游戏》《国土安全》《纸牌屋》《广告狂人》
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama SeriesBobby Cannavale, “Boardwalk Empire”Jonathan Banks, “Breaking Bad”Aaron Paul, “Breaking Bad”Jim Carter, “Downton Abbey”Peter Dinklage, “Game of Thrones”Mandy Patinkin, “Homeland”
最佳剧情类男配角提名名单：鲍比·坎纳瓦尔(Bobby Cannavale)，《大西洋帝国》(Boardwalk Empire)乔纳森·班克斯(Jonathan Banks)，《绝命毒师》亚伦·保尔(Aaron Paul)，《绝命毒师》吉姆·卡特(Jim Carter)，《唐顿庄园》彼特·丁拉基(Peter Dinklage)，《权力的游戏》曼迪·帕廷金(Mandy Patinkin)，《国土安全》
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama SeriesAnna Gunn, “Breaking Bad”Maggie Smith, “Downton Abbey”Emilia Clarke, “Game of Thrones”Christine Baranski, “The Good Wife”Morena Baccarin, “Homeland”Christina Hendricks, “Mad Men”
最佳剧情类女配角提名名单：安娜·冈(Anna Gunn)，《绝命毒师》玛吉·史密斯(Maggie Smith)，《唐顿庄园》艾米莉亚·克拉克(Emilia Clarke)，《权力的游戏》克里斯汀·巴伦斯基(Christine Baranski)，《傲骨贤妻》莫瑞娜·巴卡琳(Morena Baccarin)，《国土安全》克里斯蒂娜·亨德里克斯(Christina Hendricks)，《广告狂人》
Outstanding Writing for a Drama SeriesGeorge Mastras, “Breaking Bad,” “Dead Freight”Thomas Schnauz, “Breaking Bad,” “Say My Name”Julian Fellowes, “Downton Abbey,” Episode 4David Benioff and D.B. Weiss, “Game of Thrones,” “The Rains Of Castamere”Henry Bromell, “Homeland,” “Q&A”
最佳剧情类编剧提名：乔治·马斯特拉斯(George Mastras)，《绝命毒师》，《死亡货运》(Dead Freight)托马斯·斯赫努兹(Thomas Schnauz)，《绝命毒师》，《说出我的名字》(Say My Name)朱莉安·菲罗斯(Julian Fellowes)，《唐顿庄园》——第四集大卫·贝尼奥夫(David Benioff)与D·B·韦斯(D. B. Weiss)《权力的游戏》，《卡斯特梅的雨季》(The Rains Of Castamere)亨利·布罗麦尔(Henry Bromell)，《国土安全》,《问与答》(Q&A)
Outstanding Directing for a Drama SeriesTim Van Patten, “Boardwalk Empire”Michelle MacLaren, “Breaking Bad,” “Gliding Over All”Jeremy Webb, “Downton Abbey,” Episode 4Lesli Linka Glatter, “Homeland,” “Q&A”David Fincher, “House of Cards”
最佳剧情类导演提名名单：蒂姆·范·帕顿(Tim Van Patten)，《大西洋帝国》米歇尔·麦克拉伦(Michelle MacLaren)，《绝命毒师》，掠过的一切(Gliding Over All)杰里米·韦伯(Jeremy Webb)，《唐顿庄园》，第四集莱斯利·林卡·格拉特尔(Lesli Linka Glatter)，《国土安全》《问与答》大卫·芬奇,《纸牌屋》
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy SeriesAdam Driver, “Girls”Jesse Tyler Ferguson, “Modern Family”Ed O’Neill , “Modern Family”Ty Burrell, “Modern Family”Bill Hader, “Saturday Night Live”Tony Hale, “Veep”
最佳喜剧类男配角提名名单：亚当·德利弗(Adam Driver)，《都市女孩》杰西·泰勒·弗格森(Jesse Tyler Ferguson)，《摩登家庭》艾德·奥尼尔(Ed O’Neill)，《摩登家庭》泰·布里尔(Ty Burrell)，《摩登家庭》比尔·哈德尔(Bill Hader)，《周六夜现场》托尼·海尔(Tony Hale)，《副总统》
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy SeriesMayim Bialik, “The Big Bang Theory”Jane Lynch, “Glee”Sofia Vergara, “Modern Family”Julie Bowen, “Modern Family”Merritt Wever, “Nurse Jackie”Jane Krakowski, “30 Rock”Anna Chlumsky, “Veep”
最佳喜剧类女配角提名名单：玛伊姆·拜力克(Mayim Bialik)，《生活大爆炸》简·林奇(Jane Lynch)，《欢乐合唱团》(Glee)索菲亚·维加拉(Sofia Vergara)，《摩登家庭》朱莉·鲍温(Julie Bowen)，《摩登家庭》梅里特·韦弗(Merritt Wever)，《护士当家》简·科拉克斯基(Jane Krakowski)，《我为喜剧狂》安娜·克鲁姆斯基(Anna Chlumsky)，《副总统》
Outstanding Writing for a Comedy SeriesJeffrey Klarik, “Episodes” Episode 209Louis C.K. and Pamela Adlon, “Louie,” “Daddy’s Girlfriend (Part 1)”Greg Daniels, “The Office” FinaleJack Burditt and Robert Carlock, “30 Rock,” “Hogcock!”Tina Fey and Tracey Wigfield, “30 Rock,” “Last Lunch”
最佳喜剧类编剧提名名单：杰弗里·克拉利克(Jeffrey Klarik)，《戏里戏外》第209集路易斯·C·K和帕米拉·艾德伦(Pamela Adlon)《路易不容易》，《爸爸的女友》(Daddy’s Girlfriend)第一部分克莱格·丹尼尔斯(Greg Daniels)，《办公室》(The Office),最终集杰克·博迪特(Jack Burditt)，罗伯特·卡洛克(Robert Carlock)，《我为喜剧狂》，《Hogcock!》蒂娜·菲，特拉西·威格菲尔德(Tracey Wigfield)，《我为喜剧狂》，《最后的午餐》(Last Lunch)
Outstanding Directing for a Comedy SeriesLena Dunham, “Girls,” “On All Fours”Paris Barclay, “Glee,” “Diva”Louis C.K., “Louie,” “New Year’s Eve”Gail Mancuso, “Modern Family,” “Arrested”Beth McCarthy-Miller, “30 Rock”
最佳喜剧导演提名名单：莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)，《都市女孩》，《四脚着地》（On All Fours）帕里斯·巴克莱(Paris Barclay)，《欢乐合唱团》，《天后》(Diva)路易斯·C·K，《路易不容易》,《除夕》(New Year’s Eve)盖尔·曼库索(Gail Mancuso)，《摩登家庭》,《被捕》(Arrested)贝斯·麦卡锡-米勒(Beth McCarthy-Miller),《我为喜剧狂》
Outstanding Writing for a Variety Series“The Colbert Report”“The Daily Show With Jon Stewart”“Jimmy Kimmel Live”“Portlandia”“Real Time With Bill Maher”“Saturday Night Live”
最佳综艺节目台本创作提名名单：《科尔伯特报告》《乔恩·斯图尔特每日秀》《吉米·凯莫直播秀》《波特兰迪亚》《马赫脱口秀》《星期六夜现场》
Outstanding Reality Program“Antiques Roadshow”“Deadliest Catch”“Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives”“MythBusters”“Shark Tank”“Undercover Boss”
最佳真人秀节目提名名单：《鉴宝》(Antiques Roadshow)《致命捕捞》(Deadliest Catch)《乐享美妙旅程》(Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives)《流言终结者》(MythBusters)《创智赢家》(Shark Tank)《卧底老板》(Undercover Boss)