On the night of the Golden Globes ceremony last month, Netflix and HBO held dueling parties at the Beverly Hilton hotel. Bono and Julia Roberts mingled underneath a bejeweled tent as Netflix, the upstart streaming service, joined forces for the party with the Weinstein Company and celebrated a small piece of history — its first Globe, for “House of Cards,” its splashy entrant into original programming. At HBO’s party, Matt Damon and Lady Gaga sipped drinks by the pool as the cable network toasted its two awards, pushing its total to 101.
上个月金球奖(Golden Globes)颁奖的那天夜里，Netflix和HBO公司同时在比弗利希尔顿饭店(Beverly Hilton hotel)举行晚宴。在Netflix的宴会上，博诺(Bono)和朱莉娅·罗伯茨(Julia Roberts)在珠光宝气的大帐篷下聊得热火朝天。这次晚宴是流媒体服务初创公司Netflix和温斯坦影业公司(Weinstein Company)联合举办的，目的是庆祝一个历史性的时刻——该公司的首个金球奖。获奖的《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)是Netflix首次试水原创节目制作的成果，受到了广泛的关注。而在HBO的晚宴上，马特·达蒙(Matt Damon)和Lady Gaga在水池旁啜饮着杯中饮料，这家有线电视网络炫耀着这次斩获的两个奖项，至此，它已经获得了101项金球奖。
If there is a rivalry between the two companies, it is by many measures a mismatch — certainly in terms of creative achievement (HBO has also won 463 Emmys, to three for Netflix). But that hasn’t stopped Wall Street and the entertainment media from salivating at the story line: Netflix, the brash Silicon Valley interloper, driven by metrics and technology, not to mention a checkbook that makes seasoned Hollywood players blush like teenagers, taking on HBO, the East Coast establishment player, in the rarefied and profitable world of quality television.
如果这两家公司存在竞争，它们在很多方面都实力悬殊——这毫无疑问包括创意上的成就（HBO获得过463项艾美奖[Emmys]，Netflix只有三次）。但这没有妨碍华尔街和娱乐媒体垂涎于这样的故事情节：来自硅谷的、盛气凌人的不速之客Netflix，它崇尚数据和技术，资金实力让好莱坞大佬像孩子一样汗颜，正与东海岸的老牌选手HBO在优质电视节目这个精致、利润丰厚的领域展开较量。
The competition is energizing the medium. Cable networks like HBO and Showtime, and streaming services like Netflix and Amazon Prime, are spending lavishly on programming and embracing new technologies, giving producers incentives to take creative and financial risks and generating an upward spiral in quality.
这场竞争让媒体热血沸腾。HBO和映时频道(Showtime)等有限电视网络，以及Netflix和Amazon Prime等流媒体服务，都在花重金投资节目制作，拥抱新技术，给制作人以承担创意和财务风险的动力，让节目质量不断上升。
The result, said Mike Vorhaus of Magid Advisors, a research and consulting firm, is “an arms race in programming.” Both Netflix and HBO are “seeing the best pitches from the best people,” said Rick Rosen, head of the television division at William Morris Endeavor.
研究咨询公司Magid Advisors的麦克·沃尔豪斯(Mike Vorhaus)说，结果就出现了“节目制作上的军备竞赛”。威廉莫里斯奋进娱乐公司(William Morris Endeavor)电视部门负责人里克·罗森(Rick Rosen)说，Netflix和HBO正在“见证一群最优秀人才的最佳创意”。
As a business, Netflix is gaining momentum and blowing through the stock market’s expectations. It has a market value of $26 billion, a share price that has more than doubled in the last year, and it now has 33.4 million subscribers in the United States, five million more than HBO has domestically. Early this month, Netflix borrowed $400 million to finance an aggressive expansion in Europe. “House of Cards” was one of the big stories in television last year, and its highly anticipated second season was released with much fanfare on Friday.
作为一家企业，Netflix正高歌猛进，不断突破股市的预期。该公司的市值为260亿美元（约合1590亿元人民币），过去一年，公司的股价翻了一倍还多，目前在美国拥有3340万订户，比HBO的本土订户多了500万。本月早些时候，Netflix借款4亿美元，以支持在欧洲的强势扩张。《纸牌屋》是去年电视屏幕上最受关注的剧集之一，其备受期待的第二季已于周五高调上线。
HBO broke out its operating income for the first time earlier this month — a move it says was a coincidence — and showed its own very profitable muscles. It made $1.8 billion in operating profits in 2013, compared with Netflix’s $228 million. It has a huge international presence, with an estimated 100 million subscribers worldwide, and a trove of remarkable content that is the envy of the entire industry, not just Netflix.
HBO本月早些时候首次公布了运营收入——该公司说这是一个巧合——并展示了其盈利方面的过人实力。2013年的运营利润是18亿美元，相比之下，Netflix是2.28亿美元。该公司拥有巨大的国际影响力，在全世界约有1亿订户，并且拥有丰富的内容储备，令整个行业艳羡不已，包括Netflix在内。
Jeffrey Katzenberg, the chief executive and co-founder of DreamWorks Animation SKG and a former chairman of Walt Disney Studios, played down the idea of a rivalry, calling it “a media invention.”
梦工厂动画电影公司(DreamWorks Animation SKG)的首席执行长兼联合创始人、沃尔特·迪士尼公司(Walt Disney Studios)前董事长杰弗里·卡森伯格(Jeffrey Katzenberg)弱化了竞争对手的说法，他说，这都是“媒体杜撰出来的”。
“The fact is that Netflix has exploded in its success, achieved what really three or four years ago people would have said was an impossible level of subscription, and HBO has gone up, too,” Mr. Katzenberg said. “I think there’s a fiction here that somehow Netflix gains are HBO losses.”
卡森伯格说，“事实是，Netflix获得了爆炸式的成功，用户数量真的达到了三四年前看来不可能的水平，HBO也在蒸蒸日上。有人说Netflix赢得的就是HBO失去的，我认为这是一种错误的想法。”
But to services like HBO and Netflix that are supported by subscriptions, and not advertisers, talk means buzz, and buzz draws new customers. That’s why Netflix is punching up, constantly comparing itself to a more established brand that for consumers represents high-quality programming. Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s chief content officer, put it plainly a year ago: “The goal is to become HBO faster than HBO can become us.”  
不过，对于HBO和Netflix这种靠订阅用户而不是广告商支持的服务，舆论就意味着影响力，影响力就会吸引新的客户。这就是为什么Netflix不断加力，常常说自己相当于一个对客户来说代表着高质量节目制作的更成熟的品牌。Netflix的首席内容官特德·萨兰德斯(Ted Sarandos)一年前直白地说：“我们的目标是，我们成为HBO的速度，要比HBO成为我们的速度更快。”
Reed Hastings, chief executive of Netflix, has been routinely provocative. In a recent earnings call, he pointedly tweaked his counterpart at HBO, Richard Plepler. Asked about HBO’s endorsement of password-sharing for its own streaming service, HBO Go, Mr. Hastings joked that perhaps Mr. Plepler wouldn’t “mind me sharing his account information.” He then joked that his rival’s password was “Netflix” followed by an expletive.
Netflix的首席执行官里德·哈斯廷斯(Reed Hastings)一贯语出惊人。最近的一次营收电话会议上，他刻薄地挖苦了HBO的首席执行官理查德·普莱普勒(Richard Plepler)。在被问到如何看待HBO支持旗下流媒体服务HBO Go密码分享的问题时，哈斯廷斯开玩笑说，也许普莱普勒不会“介意我分享他的账户信息”。随后他又开玩笑说，普莱普勒的密码可能是“Netflix”后面加叹词吧。
In private, Mr. Hastings has been known to confide to executives at Time Warner, HBO’s parent, that the comparison to HBO benefits Netflix, and that he sees it as harmless mischief.
据外界所知，哈斯廷斯私下里向HBO的母公司时代华纳(Time Warner)的高管们坦言，把Netflix与HBO那样进行比较对Netflix有利，他认为这是无害的恶作剧。
Nonetheless, it remains a seductive contrast. Mr. Plepler is a suave, politically connected executive who came up through the corporate ranks, and attends White House dinners. Mr. Hastings is a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who has a master’s in computer science from Stanford and the kind of hubris that can accompany those credentials.
尽管如此，这仍然是一个有诱惑力的对比。普莱普勒是一名温文尔雅、与政界有联系的高管，他是通过公司的晋升渠道逐级上升到这一职位的，是白宫晚宴的座上宾。哈斯廷斯是硅谷的企业家，拥有斯坦福大学(Stanford)计算机科学硕士学位，以及这些荣耀所带来的傲慢。
Netflix uses reams of data to make big bets on original content. HBO continues to follow its gut and experience, and draw on longstanding relationships with industry stars, to nurture ideas to the screen.
Netflix利用大数据对原创内容压下了重注。HBO继续凭借自己的胆识和经验，利用与业内明星的长期关系，酝酿制作电视节目的创意。
Mr. Sarandos has said that he does not believe in development, but instead grants creative freedom to writers and directors. He has become known in Hollywood for writing enormous checks with few of the traditional balances.
萨兰德斯说，他不相信开发节目这回事，而是会给作家和导演以创造的自由。在好莱坞，他无视传统的种种考虑，爱写大额支票的事，已经人尽皆知。
“They made the largest single order for original TV content in the history of the TV business,” Mr. Katzenberg said, referring to a deal struck last June, “three hundred hours of original content from us, in one order.”
卡森伯格说，“他们创造了电视行业历史上最大的一笔原创电视内容订单。”他指的是去年6月达成的一笔交易，“一张订单购买我们300个小时的原创内容。”
“House of Cards,” Netflix’s most lauded original production, was delivered nearly fully formed — with two scripts and a comprehensive outline of its plot, a staff of writers and the director David Fincher attached — for about $200 million. Its producers received interest from several outlets, including HBO, but decided to make it with Netflix — in part because its financial firepower allowed it to commit to two seasons in advance, and in part because it left control in the hands of the writer and director, not development executives.
Netflix最受赞誉的原创作品《纸牌屋》是几乎完全成型之后才决定拍摄的——两集的剧本和一个完整的情节大纲，一支编剧队伍，以及导演大卫·芬奇(David Fincher)的加盟——成本约为2亿美元。其制作人获得了几家媒体伸出的橄榄枝，其中包括HBO，但它决定和Netflix合作制作这部电视剧——一个原因是，Netflix的财力允许它提前为两季下定，另一个原因是，该公司把控制权交给编剧和导演，而不是负责开发的高管们。
“I think they’re very surgical in their approach,” said David Glasser, president of the Weinstein Company, which will show “Marco Polo,” a series about the 13th century explorer, on Netflix this year. “You know very clearly the vision they have.”
温斯坦影业公司的总裁大卫·格拉瑟(David Glasser)说，“我认为他们出手非常精准。”该公司今年将在Netflix上推出《马可波罗》(Marco Polo)，一部关于那位13世纪探险家的电视剧。“你非常清楚他们的目标。”
People familiar with HBO’s process say it reviews a larger quantity of pitches, with about one in five making it to the pilot stage, and usually only after close consultation with development executives. Of the pilots, about 60 percent will be broadcast. That model, one person said, allows it to find and develop lesser-known talent like Lena Dunham, the creator of “Girls.”
熟悉HBO操作规程的人们说，它评估了大量的创意书，其中五分之一进入试播阶段，而且通常只在与开发高管们密切协商之后才决定。在试播项目中，大约60%最终会播出。有人说，这个模式使它能够找到和发展那些名气不太大的人才，比如《都市女孩》(Girls)的创作者，莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)。
The channel’s relationship with the creative community ensures it will continue to prosper, Mr. Plepler said. He cited “the line at the door of people who want to do things with HBO,” and pointed to coming projects with Mr. Fincher, J.J. Abrams, Martin Scorsese and others. “That is our greatest advantage and one we intend to press on,” he said. They are not alone in the premium cable space. Showtime has almost doubled its audience in the past 10 years and has a bona fide hit in “Homeland.”
普莱普勒说，该频道与创作群体的良好关系确保了它能够不断获得成功。他举例说，“想要和HBO合作的人在门口都排起长队了”，提到与芬奇、J·J·艾布拉姆斯(J. J. Abrams)、马丁·西科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)等人即将进行的项目。“这是我们最大的优势，也是我们打算继续努力的方向，”他说。HBO并不唯一一家提供优质节目的有限电视网。映时的观众人数过去10年几乎翻了一番，它推出的《国土安全》(Homeland)堪称风靡一时。
As Netflix moved aggressively to present original content, however, it became a threat to some of the very media companies it relied on for its movie library. The studios toughened their negotiations, and a deal that it had with Starz expired in 2012, stripping out many of its movies. Netflix now has its own deals with some studios for movies.
然而，由于Netflix积极地提供原创内容，它对一些作为它电影资源库的媒体公司构成了威胁。这些媒体公司在谈判时强化了立场，Netflix与Starz的一个协议已于2012年失效，导致许多电影下线。Netflix现在与一些电影制作公司签订了电影资源的协议。
HBO has deals with four Hollywood studios locked in for several years, Mr. Plepler said, and about 78 percent of HBO viewing is in movies. A visitor to HBO is often greeted with more familiar contemporary titles than one browsing Netflix.
普莱普勒说，HBO和四家好莱坞公司签有协议，期限长达多年且不可更改，HBO上大约78%的观看次数来自电影视频。与Netflix相比，人们在HBO上能看到更多熟悉的当代电影。
For all their differences, though, HBO and Netflix seem to be learning from each other. HBO’s new drama, “True Detective,” was delivered with eight scripts written, and a director and stars attached. Netflix, said a person familiar with their processes, has hired more production executives and is taking a keener interest in the development of the shows it buys.
不过，尽管有很多不同点，HBO和Netflix似乎正在相互学习。HBO的新剧集《真探》(True Detective)在决定拍的时候已经有了八集的剧本，一名导演和几位担纲出演的明星。熟悉这一流程的人说，Netflix雇佣了更多的节目制作人员，正在对它所购买的节目的开发表现出更强烈的兴趣。
“These companies are morphing into the middle,” said Jeremy Zimmer, head of United Talent Agency. “The technology companies are working hard to develop good content and the smart content companies are embracing innovative technologies. The idea that one has to cannibalize the other is counterproductive.”
United Talent Agency的负责人杰里米·齐默(Jeremy Zimmer)说，“这些公司正逐渐趋同。科技公司正在努力开发优质内容，聪明的内容制作公司正在拥抱创新技术。只有你死我活才能分出胜负的想法只能适得其反。”
That sentiment was echoed from the White House last week. President Obama stopped Mr. Plepler at a state dinner to ask for advance copies of “True Detective” and “Game of Thrones” to watch over the holiday weekend. Then on Thursday, the night before Netflix released the new season of “House of Cards,” a message appeared on the president’s Twitter account: “Tomorrow: @HouseOfCards. No spoilers, please.”
白宫上周也表示出了同样的观点。奥巴马在一次国宴上叫住了普莱普勒，想在假期周末提前观看到《真探》和《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)。然后周四，Netflix发布新一季《纸牌屋》的前一天晚上，奥巴马的Twitter账户上发出了这样一则信息：“明天：@《纸牌屋》。请别剧透。”