When Ban Ki-moon, the U.N. secretary-general, sat down with President Barack Obama at the White House in April to discuss Syrian chemical weapons, Israeli-Palestinian peace talks and climate change, it was a cordial, routine exchange.
今年4月，联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)造访白宫，跟奥巴马讨论了叙利亚的化学武器、巴以和平谈判，以及气候变化问题。这是一次亲切友好的例行交流。
The National Security Agency nonetheless went to work in advance and intercepted Ban's talking points for the meeting, a feat the agency later reported as an “operational highlight” in a weekly internal brag sheet. It is hard to imagine what edge this could have given Obama in a friendly chat, if he even saw the NSA's modest scoop. (The White House won't say.)
美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）仍然提前开展了工作，窃取了潘基文在这次会晤中的谈话要点，之后还将此事作为“行动亮点”，在每周的内部工作汇报表上大加炫耀。就算奥巴马看到了NSA那条无关紧要的提示，也很难想象这能给他在一场友好交谈中提供何种优势。（白宫不愿透露奥巴马是否读了那些要点。）
But it was emblematic of an agency that for decades has operated on the principle that any eavesdropping that can be done on a foreign target of any conceivable interest — now or in the future — should be done. After all, American intelligence officials reasoned, who's going to find out?
但这件事象征着NSA运转几十年来，一直遵循的一项原则：如果能以任何方式监控一个外国目标，只要这个目标具备任何能够想到的用处，无论这种用处是现在的还是将来的，NSA就应当监控。毕竟，美国情报官员揣测道，谁能发现呢？
From thousands of classified documents, the National Security Agency emerges as an electronic omnivore of staggering capabilities, eavesdropping and hacking its way around the world to strip governments and other targets of their secrets, all the while enforcing the utmost secrecy about its own operations. It spies routinely on friends as well as foes, as has become obvious in recent weeks; the agency's official mission list includes using its surveillance powers to achieve “diplomatic advantage” over such allies as France and Germany and “economic advantage” over Japan and Brazil, among other countries.
数以千计的机密文件，勾勒出了NSA“电子杂食动物”的形象，它拥有惊人的能力，可以在世界各地进行监听、实施黑客攻击，窃取各国政府和其他目标的秘密，同时守护着自身运行的保密性。NSA会习惯性地监控盟友和对手，最近几个星期以来，这一点已经变得很明显；该机构的官方任务清单显示，它利用监控手段在法国、德国等盟友面前取得“外交优势”，从日本、巴西等其他国家那里取得“经济优势”。
Obama found himself in September standing uncomfortably beside the president of Brazil, Dilma Rousseff, who was furious at being named as a target of NSA eavesdropping. Since then, there has been a parade of such protests, from the European Union, Mexico, France, Germany and Spain. Chagrined U.S. officials joke that soon there will be complaints from foreign leaders feeling slighted because the agency had not targeted them.
巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)得知自己受到NSA监听后十分愤怒，今年9月，奥巴马站在她身旁时显得局促不安。从那时起，这样的抗议就层出不穷，包括欧洲联盟(European Union)、墨西哥、法国、德国和西班牙。尴尬的美国官员开玩笑说，很快就会有外国领导人抱怨NSA没有监控他们，让他们感觉受到了轻视。
James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, has repeatedly dismissed such objections as brazen hypocrisy from countries that do their own share of spying. But in a recent interview, he acknowledged that the scale of eavesdropping by the NSA, with 35,000 workers and $10.8 billion a year, sets it apart. “There's no question that from a capability standpoint we probably dwarf everybody on the planet, just about, with perhaps the exception of Russia and China,” he said.
美国国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)一直把这种抗议称为厚颜无耻的虚伪表现，因为那些国家自己也在开展间谍活动。但在最近的一次采访中，他承认NSA的监控活动，就规模而言与别国大为不同，毕竟该局拥有3.5万名员工，每年经费有108亿美元。他说，“毫无疑问，从实力来看，我们可能会让地球上其他所有机构相形见绌，也许只有俄罗斯和中国例外。”
Since Edward J. Snowden began releasing the agency's documents in June, the unrelenting stream of disclosures has opened the most extended debate on the agency's mission since its creation in 1952. The scrutiny has ignited a crisis of purpose and legitimacy for the NSA, the nation's largest intelligence agency, and the White House has ordered a review of both its domestic and foreign intelligence collection. While much of the focus has been on whether the agency violates Americans' privacy, an issue under examination by Congress and two review panels, the anger expressed around the world about American surveillance has prompted far broader questions.
自从爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)从6月开始公布NSA的文件以来，持续不断的爆料已经引发了自NSA在1952年成立以来，有关其使命的一场最广泛的辩论。人们对美国最大情报机构NSA的审视，引发了一场关于其宗旨和正当性的危机，白宫已下令对国内和国外情报收集活动进行审核。虽然大量注意力都集中在NSA是否侵犯了美国人的隐私上，比如国会和另外两个审核小组就正在调查这个问题，但其他各国对美国监控活动表达的愤怒，已经引发了影响更为广泛的问题。
If secrecy can no longer be taken for granted, when does the political risk of eavesdropping overseas outweigh its intelligence benefits? Should foreign citizens, many of whom now rely on American companies for email and Internet services, have any privacy protections from the NSA? Will the American Internet giants' collaboration with the agency, voluntary or otherwise, damage them in international markets? And are the agency's clandestine efforts to weaken encryption making the Internet less secure for everyone?
如果行动的秘密性不再能得到保证，在外国开展监控活动的政治风险在什么时候会超过情报所带来的利益呢？很多外国公民现在使用美国的电邮和互联网服务公司，他们的隐私是否应该得到保护，不让NSA染指？美国互联网巨头与NSA的合作，无论自愿与否，会在国际市场上损害它们的利益吗？NSA破坏加密手段的秘密活动，是否让互联网变得对所有人都不那么安全了？
Matthew M. Aid, an intelligence historian and author of a 2009 book on the NSA, said there is no precedent for the hostile questions coming at the agency from all directions.
情报史学者马修·M·艾德(Matthew M. Aid)在2009年写过一本关于NSA的书，他说，充满敌意的质问从四面八方朝NSA袭来，这样的情况是过去没有过的。
“From NSA's point of view, it's a disaster,” Aid said. “Every new disclosure reinforces the notion that the agency needs to be reined in. There are political consequences, and there will be operational consequences.”
“从NSA的角度来看，这是一场灾难，”艾德表示，“每次出现新的爆料，NSA需要受到遏制的想法都会更加深入人心。这会造成政治后果，也会在行动层面上产生后果。”
A review of classified agency documents, obtained by Snowden and shared with The New York Times by The Guardian, offers a rich sampling of the agency's global operations and culture. (At the agency's request, The Times is withholding some details that officials said could compromise intelligence operations.) The NSA seems to be listening everywhere in the world, gathering every stray electron that might add, however minutely, to the U.S. government's knowledge of the world. To some Americans, that may be a comfort. To others, and to people overseas, that may suggest an agency out of control.
英国《卫报》(The Guardian)向《纽约时报》分享了斯诺登取得的大量NSA机密文件。通过对这些文件进行审阅，可以对NSA的文化和在全球的运作，得到详尽的了解。（在NSA的要求下，《纽约时报》隐去了一些细节，因为官员说它们可能会影响情报活动。）NSA似乎在监听全球每个角落，收集每一条电子信息，无论它有多微不足道，只要能增进美国政府对世界的了解就行。对某些美国人来说，这可能是一种安慰，但对于其他一些美国人以及外国人来说，这显示着NSA已经失控。
Obama and top intelligence officials have defended the agency's role in preventing terrorist attacks. But as the documents make clear, the focus on counterterrorism is a misleadingly narrow sales pitch for an agency with an almost unlimited agenda. Its scale and aggressiveness are breathtaking.
奥巴马和高级情报官员为NSA进行了辩护，称它在防止恐怖袭击方面发挥了作用。但正如泄露的文件显示的那样，反恐只是NSA拿出的一则误导他人的狭隘“卖点”。该局的议程几乎没有任何限制，它的规模和侵略性令人震惊。
The agency's Dishfire database — nothing happens without a code word at the NSA — stores years of text messages from around the world, just in case. Its Tracfin collection accumulates gigabytes of credit card purchases. The fellow pretending to send a text message at an Internet cafe in Jordan may be using an NSA technique code-named Polarbreeze to tap into nearby computers.
NSA的Dishfire数据库（NSA的所有活动都有一个代号）存储了很多年里全球各地的短信，目的只是以防万一；它的Tracfin数据库收集了大量的信用卡购物信息。在约旦的一家网吧里假装发短信的家伙，可能正在使用一项代号为“极地微风”(Polarbreeze)的NSA技术，入侵附近的计算机。
No investment seems too great if it adds to the agency's global phone book. The aspirations are grandiose: to “utterly master” foreign intelligence carried on communications networks. But the tone is also strikingly moralistic for a government bureaucracy. Perhaps to counter any notion that eavesdropping is a shady enterprise, signals intelligence, or Sigint, the term of art for electronic intercepts, is presented as the noblest of callings.
在NSA的全球电话簿项目上，投资再大也不嫌大。这个项目的宏伟目标是：“完全掌握”在通信网络上传送的外国情报。但对于一个政府机构来说，它的语气也惊人地说教。这也许是为了反击任何“监控是见不得人的勾当”的观念，他们把信号情报，或称Sigint，即电子拦截技术的术语，描述成了一种崇高的工作。
“Sigint professionals must hold the moral high ground, even as terrorists or dictators seek to exploit our freedoms,” the plan declares. “Some of our adversaries will say or do anything to advance their cause; we will not.”
“信号情报专业人士必须占据道德制高点，即便在恐怖分子和独裁者利用我们的自由之时，”这份计划宣称。“我们的一些对手为了推行他们的任务会不择手段，会运用任何说辞，但我们不会。”
The NSA documents taken by Snowden and shared with The Times, numbering in the thousands and mostly dating from 2007 to 2012, are part of a collection of about 50,000 items that focus mainly on its British counterpart, Government Communications Headquarters or GCHQ.
由斯诺登取得并分享给《纽约时报》的NSA文件有数千份，时间大都在2007年至2012年之间，这些文件是约5万份主要关注英国情报机构政府通讯总部（Government Communications Headquarters，简称GCHQ）的文件的一部分。
The agency and its many defenders among senior government officials who have relied on its top secret reports say it is crucial to U.S. security and status in the world, pointing to terrorist plots disrupted, nuclear proliferation tracked and diplomats kept informed.
NSA及其在政府高级官员中的辩护者表示，这对美国的安全及其世界地位十分关键。这些高级官员依赖NSA的机密报告。他们提出，被挫败的恐怖袭击阴谋、被追踪到的核武器扩散活动，以及外交官们掌握的信息都能证明这一点。
But the documents released by Snowden sometimes also seem to underscore the limits of what even the most intensive intelligence collection can achieve by itself. Blanket NSA eavesdropping in Afghanistan, described in the documents as covering government offices and the hide-outs of second-tier Taliban militants alike, has failed to produce a clear victory against a low-tech enemy. The agency kept track as Syria amassed its arsenal of chemical weapons — but that knowledge did nothing to prevent the gruesome slaughter outside Damascus in August.
然而斯诺登发布的文件有时似乎也突显出，即使有详尽的情报资料，单靠情报本身，能做到的事也很有限。NSA在阿富汗进行了地毯式的监控，按照这些文档的描述，监控范围既涵盖政府官员，也涵盖塔利班第二级作战人员的巢穴。但在科技水平低下的敌人面前，NSA的监控并没有帮助美国取得明确的胜利。在叙利亚聚集化学武器之时，NSA也一直在进行追踪，但该局了解的情况并没能避免今年8月大马士革郊外发生的血腥屠戮。
By many accounts, the agency provides more than half of the intelligence nuggets delivered to the White House early each morning in the President's Daily Brief — a measure of success for American spies.
许多知情人士透露，每天清晨在“总统每日简报”中提交的情报摘要中，有超过一半是NSA提供的——这项指标说明了美国间谍的成功。
That creates intense pressure not to miss anything. When that is combined with an ample budget and near-invisibility to the public, the result is aggressive surveillance of the kind that has sometimes gotten the agency in trouble with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, a U.S. federal court that polices its programs for breaches of Americans' privacy.
这就构成了一种不要漏掉任何事情的压力。再加上有充足的预算，而且几乎不会受到公众关注，其结果就是激进的监控。而这种监控有时候会导致NSA与外国情报监视法院（Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court，简称FISA）产生矛盾。FISA是一家联邦法院，监督美国情报机关侵犯美国人隐私权的行为。
In the funding boom that followed the Sept. 11 attacks, the agency expanded and decentralized far beyond its Fort Meade headquarters in Maryland, building or expanding major facilities in Georgia, Texas, Colorado, Hawaii, Alaska, Washington state and Utah. Its officers also operate out of major overseas stations in England, Australia, South Korea and Japan, at overseas military bases, and from locked rooms housing the Special Collection Service inside U.S. missions abroad.
在9·11袭击之后资金大增的情况下，NSA规模扩张而且更分散化。在位于马里兰州米德堡的总部之外，还在乔治亚州、德克萨斯州、科罗拉多州、夏威夷州、阿拉斯加州、华盛顿州和犹他州修建或扩建了大型设施。NSA的情报人员还在位于英格兰、澳大利亚、韩国和日本的主要海外情报站，海外军事基地，以及位于美国驻外使领馆中供“特情收集处”(Special Collection Service)使用的隐秘房间里开展工作。
The agency, using a combination of jawboning, stealth and legal force, has turned the nation's Internet and telecommunications companies into collection partners, installing filters in their facilities, serving them with court orders, building back doors into their software and acquiring keys to break their encryption.
NSA通过综合运用胁迫、秘密监控和法律手段，已经将美国的互联网和电信企业转变为搜集情报的伙伴，在其设施中增加过滤器，向它们传达法院的命令，在软件中建造后门，并获取用于破解其加密信息的密钥。
But even that vast American-run web is only part of the story. For decades, the NSA has shared eavesdropping duties with the rest of the so-called Five Eyes, the Sigint agencies of Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. More limited cooperation occurs with many more countries, including formal arrangements called Nine Eyes and 14 Eyes and Nacsi, an alliance of the agencies of 26 NATO countries.
但尽管美国企业经营的网络规模庞大，那也只是故事的一部分。几十年来，NSA与所谓的“五只眼”(Five Eyes)中的其他四方共同承担着监控责任，即英国、加拿大、澳大利亚和新西兰的信号情报单位。NSA还与更多的其他国家开展有限的合作，包括称为“九只眼”、“14只眼”的非正式合作安排，以及北约(NATO)成员国26个国家情报机构间的合作机构Nasci。
Today, with personal computers, laptops, tablets and smartphones in most homes and government offices in the developed world, hacking has become the agency's growth area.
现在在发达国家，大多数家庭和政府机构都有个人电脑、笔记本电脑、平板电脑和智能手机，黑客行为已经成了该机构内不断扩大的领域。
Some of Snowden's documents describe the exploits of Tailored Access Operations, the prim name for the NSA division that breaks into computers around the world to steal the data inside, and sometimes to leave spy software behind. TAO is increasingly important in part because it allows the agency to bypass encryption by capturing messages as they are written or read, when they are not encoded.
斯诺登披露的部分文件描述了“针对性访问行动”（Tailored Access Operations，简称TAO）所获取的信息。NSA内部这个名字一本正经的部门，负责攻入全世界的电脑，窃取其中的数据，有时候还会在其中植入间谍软件。TAO越来越重要，部分原因在于它能让NSA绕开加密，在写入或读取信息的时候就将其捕获，那时信息还没有经过编码加密。
The NSA's elite Transgression Branch, created in 2009 to “discover, understand, evaluate and exploit” foreign hackers' work, quietly piggybacks on others' incursions into computers of interest, like thieves who follow other housebreakers around and go through the windows they have left ajar.
而NSA尖端的“进犯分部”(Transgression Branch)是在2009年为了“发现、理解、评估和利用”外国黑客的工作而建立的，该部门悄悄地在目标电脑被侵入后，搭其他进犯者的便车，就像是小偷跟在其他入室盗窃的人身后游逛，趁机钻进捷足先登者打开的窗子。
Joel F. Brenner, the agency's former inspector general, says much of the criticism is unfair, reflecting a naïveté about the realpolitik of spying. “The agency is being browbeaten for doing too well the things it's supposed to do,” he said.
NSA前监察长乔尔·F·布伦纳(Joel F. Brenner)说，许多批评都是不公平的，反映了人们对间谍行动中的现实政治有天真的想象。他说，“NSA之所以受到猛烈抨击，是因为把自己该做的事情做得太好了。”
But Brenner added that he believes “technology has outrun policy” at the NSA, and that in an era in which spying may well be exposed, “routine targeting of close allies is bad politics and is foolish.”
但是布伦纳补充说，他相信在NSA内部“政策已经跟不上技术发展的步伐了”，而且在一个间谍行为很可能会被暴露出来的时代，“例行性地把最紧密的盟友当目标，政治上很糟糕，而且很愚蠢”。
Another former insider worries less about foreign leaders' sensitivities than the potential danger the sprawling agency poses at home. William E. Binney, a former senior NSA official who has become an outspoken critic, says he has no problem with spying on foreign targets like Brazil's president or the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. “That's pretty much what every government does,” he said. “It's the foundation of diplomacy.” But Binney said that without new leadership, new laws and top-to-bottom reform, the agency will represent a threat of “turnkey totalitarianism” — the capability to turn its awesome power, now directed mainly against other countries, on the U.S. public.
另一位前内部人士更担忧的是这个规模巨大的机构在国内构成的潜在危险，而不是外国领导人的敏感反应。前NSA高级官员威廉·E·宾尼(William E. Binney)转变成了尖锐的批评者，他表示，对于针对外国目标，如巴西总统或德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)，他没有什么看法。“那基本上是每个政府都在做的事，”他说。“那是外交的基石。”但是宾尼说，如果没有新的领导层、新的法律，以及从头到脚的改革，NSA就会构成一种“随时转变为极权主义”的威胁——有能力把它现在主要针对其他国家的巨大实力，转向美国大众。
“I think it's already starting to happen,” he said. “That's what we have to stop.”
“我想这已经在发生了，”他说，“我们必须阻止。”
Whatever reforms may come, Bobby R. Inman, who weathered his own turbulent period as NSA director from 1977 to 1981, offers his hyper-secret former agency a radical suggestion for right now. “My advice would be to take everything you think Snowden has and get it out yourself,” he said. “It would certainly be a shock to the agency. But bad news doesn't get better with age. The sooner they get it out and put it behind them, the faster they can begin to rebuild.”
鲍比·R·英曼(Bobby R. Inman)曾在1977年至1981年间担任NSA局长，在他任内NSA也经历过一段动荡时期。无论可能实行怎样的改革，英曼都为他曾经供职的这个保密性极高的部门，提出了一个当下可以采取的极端举措。“我的建议是，把所有你认为斯诺登拿到了的资料公布出来，”他说，“这样做肯定会极大地冲击NSA，但坏消息掩盖再久也是坏消息。越早公布出来，把它抛诸脑后，就能越快地开始重建。”