WASHINGTON — The trail that led American officials to blame North Korea for the destructive cyberattack on Sony Pictures Entertainment in November winds back to 2010, when the National Security Agency scrambled to break into the computer systems of a country considered one of the most impenetrable targets on earth.
华盛顿——促使美国官员认为朝鲜应对索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures Entertainment)去年11月遭受的毁灭性网络袭击负责的线索，要追溯到2010年。当时，国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）紧急侵入了一个国家的计算机系统，这个国家被认为是全世界最难以侵入的目标之一。
Spurred by growing concern about North Korea’s maturing capabilities, the American spy agency drilled into the Chinese networks that connect North Korea to the outside world, picked through connections in Malaysia favored by North Korean hackers and penetrated directly into the North with the help of South Korea and other American allies, according to former United States and foreign officials, computer experts later briefed on the operations and a newly disclosed N.S.A. document.
根据前美国和外国官员、后来获悉相关行动的电脑专家，以及新披露的一份NSA文件的叙述，由于越来越担忧朝鲜日趋成熟的能力，该间谍机构侵入了将朝鲜与外界相连的中国网络，在颇受朝鲜黑客青睐的马来西亚连接中仔细筛查，并在韩国和美国其他盟友的帮助下，直接侵入了朝鲜网络。
A classified security agency program expanded into an ambitious effort, officials said, to place malware that could track the internal workings of many of the computers and networks used by the North’s hackers, a force that South Korea’s military recently said numbers roughly 6,000 people. Most are commanded by the country’s main intelligence service, called the Reconnaissance General Bureau, and Bureau 121, its secretive hacking unit.
官员称，该机构的一个秘密项目扩大成了一项雄心勃勃的行动，试图植入恶意软件，从而追踪朝鲜黑客使用的许多电脑和网络的内部运作。韩国军方前不久称，朝鲜黑客大致有6000人。其中大部分人听命于该国主要的情报机构侦查总局(Reconnaissance General Bureau)以及秘密黑客部门第121局(Bureau 121)。
The evidence gathered by the “early warning radar” of software painstakingly hidden to monitor North Korea’s activities proved critical in persuading President Obama to accuse the government of Kim Jong-un of ordering the Sony attack, according to the officials and experts, who spoke on the condition of anonymity about the classified N.S.A. operation.
官员和技术专家透露，监控朝鲜活动的软件采取了煞费苦心的隐藏措施，而这些软件的“预警雷达”搜集到的证据，在说服奥巴马总统就下令攻击索尼一事谴责金正恩(Kim Jong-un)领导的政府时，起到了至关重要的作用。由于谈论的是NSA的机密行动，这些官员和专家要求匿名。
Mr. Obama’s decision to accuse North Korea of ordering the largest destructive attack against an American target — and to promise retaliation, which has begun in the form of new economic sanctions — was highly unusual: The United States had never explicitly charged another government with mounting a cyberattack on American targets.
奥巴马决定就下令对美国目标发动最严重的破坏性袭击，向朝鲜表达谴责，并宣称要进行报复，这样的举动极不寻常——报复已经以新经济制裁的形式开始了。美国此前从未明确指控某国政府对美国目标发动网络袭击。
Mr. Obama is cautious in drawing stark conclusions from intelligence, aides say. But in this case “he had no doubt,” according to one senior American military official.
助手称，奥巴马对根据情报得出明确结论颇为谨慎。但美国军方的一名高官称，对于此事，“他毫不怀疑”。
“Attributing where attacks come from is incredibly difficult and slow,” said James A. Lewis, a cyberwarfare expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “The speed and certainty with which the United States made its determinations about North Korea told you that something was different here — that they had some kind of inside view.”
“确定袭击来源的过程极其困难和缓慢，”华盛顿国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的网络战专家詹姆斯·A·刘易斯(James A. Lewis)说。“美国很快就认定袭击与朝鲜有关，而且对此十分确信，这说明这次的情况不一样，他们有某种内幕信息。”
The extensive American penetration of the North Korean system also raises questions about why the United States was not able to alert Sony as the attacks took shape last fall, even though the North had warned, as early as June, that the release of the movie “The Interview,” a crude comedy about a C.I.A. plot to assassinate the North’s leader, would be “an act of war.”
美国对朝鲜系统的大举侵入也让人提出疑问，美国为何没能在去年秋天袭击正在酝酿时，就警告索尼。早在去年6月，朝鲜就警告称，发行电影《采访》(The Interview)将是“战争行为”。该片是一部粗劣的喜剧，讲述的是美国中央情报局(CIA)密谋刺杀朝鲜领导人的故事。
Dinner in Pyongyang
平壤的晚宴
The N.S.A.’s success in getting into North Korea’s systems in recent years should have allowed the agency to see the first “spear phishing” attacks on Sony — the use of emails that put malicious code into a computer system if an unknowing user clicks on a link — when the attacks began in early September, according to two American officials.
两名美国官员称，9月初袭击开始时，NSA近年来在侵入朝鲜系统方面取得的成功，本来应能让该机构发现索尼遭受的第一波“鱼叉式钓鱼”攻击，即通过电子邮件，在不知情的用户点击某个链接时，将恶意代码植入电脑系统。
But those attacks did not look unusual. Only in retrospect did investigators determine that the North had stolen the “credentials” of a Sony systems administrator, which allowed the hackers to roam freely inside Sony’s systems.
但那些攻击看上去很平常。调查人员在回忆时才断定，朝鲜盗取了索尼一名系统管理员的权限，从而使黑客能在索尼的系统内部自由行动。
In recent weeks, investigators have concluded that the hackers spent more than two months, from mid-September to mid-November, mapping Sony’s computer systems, identifying critical files and planning how to destroy computers and servers.
最近几周，调查人员断定，从9月中旬到11月中旬，黑客用了两个多月的时间来绘制索尼电脑系统的结构图、识别关键文件夹，并策划如何破坏电脑和服务器。
“They were incredibly careful, and patient,” said one person briefed on the investigation. But he added that even with their view into the North’s activities, American intelligence agencies “couldn’t really understand the severity” of the destruction that was coming when the attacks began Nov. 24.
“他们非常谨慎、有耐心，”一名了解调查情况的人士称。但他接着表示，即便能观察到朝鲜的活动，11月24日袭击开始时，美国情报机构“也没有真的明白”即将到来的破坏的“严重程度”。
In fact, when, Gen. James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, had an impromptu dinner in early November with his North Korean counterpart during a secret mission to Pyongyang to secure the release of two imprisoned Americans, he made no mention of Sony or the North’s growing hacking campaigns, officials say.
实际上，11月初，为了实现两名被关押的美国人获释而身负秘密任务前往平壤的美国国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)，还临时与朝鲜的对等官员共进晚宴。官员称，他当时并未提及索尼或朝鲜愈演愈烈的黑客行动。
In a recent speech at Fordham University in New York, Mr. Clapper acknowledged that the commander of the Reconnaissance General Bureau, Kim Yong-chol, with whom he traded barbs over the 12-course dinner, was “later responsible for overseeing the attack against Sony.” (General Clapper praised the food; his hosts later presented him with a bill for his share of the meal.)
最近在纽约的福特汉姆大学(Fordham University)发表演讲时，克拉珀承认，侦查总局的负责人金永哲(Kim Yong-chol)“后来负责领导了针对索尼的攻击活动”。他和金永哲曾在一顿共有12道菜的晚宴中进行了针锋相对的交流。（克拉珀对这顿饭赞赏有加，但东道主后来让他为自己的那份饮食买了单。）
Jang Sae-yul, a former North Korean army programmer who defected in 2007, speaking in an interview in Seoul, said: “They have built up formidable hacking skills. They have spent almost 30 years getting ready, learning how to do this and this alone, how to target specific countries.”
前朝鲜军方程序员张世列（Jang Sae-yul，音译）在2007年逃出朝鲜。他在首尔接受采访时说：“他们建立了可怕的黑客攻击能力。他们花了近30年做准备，学习该怎样做，怎样针对具体的国家。”
Still, the sophistication of the Sony hack was such that many experts say they are skeptical that North Korea was the culprit, or the lone culprit. They have suggested it was an insider, a disgruntled Sony ex-employee or an outside group cleverly mimicking North Korean hackers. Many remain unconvinced by the efforts of the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, to answer critics by disclosing some of the American evidence.
尽管如此，考虑到索尼所受攻击的复杂程度，许多专家称，他们不相信朝鲜是罪魁祸首，至少不相信朝鲜是唯一的发动者。他们暗示，实施攻击的可能是一名内部人士，如心怀不满的索尼前员工，或者是一个巧妙地伪装成朝鲜黑客的外部组织。美国联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)披露了一些美方掌握的证据来回应质疑，但此番努力仍然未能令许多人信服。
Mr. Comey told the same Fordham conference that the North Koreans got “sloppy” in hiding their tracks, and that hackers periodically “connected directly and we could see them.”
也是在福特汉姆大学的那场会议上，科米说，朝鲜掩盖痕迹的工作开始变得“马马虎虎”，黑客们会定期“直接连接网络，我们可以看到他们”。
“And we could see that the I.P. addresses that were being used to post and to send the emails were coming from I.P.s that were exclusively used by the North Koreans,” he said. Some of those addresses appear to be in China, experts say.
“除此之外，我们还可以看到，用来发布信息和发送电子邮件的IP地址是朝鲜人专属的，”他说。专家们称，其中有些地址似乎在中国境内。
The skeptics say, however, that it would not be that difficult for hackers who wanted to appear to be North Korean to fake their whereabouts. Mr. Comey said there was other evidence he could not discuss. So did Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the N.S.A. director, who told the Fordham conference that after reviewing the classified data he had “high confidence” the North had ordered the action.
然而，怀疑者说，如果黑客想要隐藏自己的位置，假装自己是朝鲜人，并不是那么难。科米说，还有其他一些证据，但他无法公开讨论。美国国家安全局局长迈克尔·S·罗杰斯上将(Michael S. Rogers)做出了同样的表态。他在福特汉姆的会议上说，在评估了这些机密数据之后，他有“高度的信心”认为朝鲜下令实施了攻击行动。
An Attack in Seoul
首尔的攻击
When the Americans first gained access to the North Korean networks and computers in 2010, their surveillance focused on the North’s nuclear program and its leadership, as well as efforts to detect attacks aimed at United States military forces in South Korea, said one former American official. (The German magazine Der Spiegel published an N.S.A. document on Saturday that provides some details of South Korea’s help in spying on the North.) Then a highly destructive attack in 2013 on South Korean banks and media companies suggested that North Korea was becoming a greater threat, and the focus shifted.
一名前美国官员说，2010年，当美国首先进入朝鲜的网络和计算机时，其监控行动专注于朝鲜的核计划和领导人，同时也努力监控针对驻韩美军的攻击活动。（德国《明镜》杂志[Der Spiegel]周六公布的一份NSA的文件中，披露了韩国协助美国对朝鲜实施间谍活动的一些细节。）后来，韩国的银行和媒体公司在2013年遭到了一场破坏性极强的攻击，表明朝鲜正在成为更大的威胁，于是关注点发生了转移。
“The big target was the hackers,” the official said.
“这些黑客变成了主要目标，”这名官员称。
That attack knocked out almost 50,000 computers and servers in South Korea for several days at five banks and television broadcasters.
那次攻击令韩国五家银行和一些电视台的近5万台计算机和服务器瘫痪了数日。
The hackers were patient, spending nine months probing the South Korean systems. But they also made the mistake seen in the Sony hack, at one point revealing what South Korean analysts believe to have been their true I.P. addresses. Lim Jong-in, dean of the Graduate School of Information Security at Korea University, said those addresses were traced back to Shenyang, and fell within a spectrum of I.P. addresses linked to North Korean companies.
这些黑客很有耐心，他们花了九个月的时间来侦测韩国的这些计算机系统。但就像针对索尼的攻击活动中看到的一样，他们也出现了一个失误：一度暴露了韩国分析人士所说的真实的IP地址。高丽大学(Korea University)信息安全研究生院院长林钟仁(Lim Jong-in)说，这些地址被追踪到沈阳，来自一个与朝鲜企业有关的IP地址段。
The attack was studied by American intelligence agencies. But after the North issued its warnings about Sony’s movie last June, American officials appear to have made no reference to the risk in their discussions with Sony executives. Even when the spear-phishing attacks began in September — against Sony and other targets — “it didn’t set off alarm bells,” according to one person involved in the investigation.
美国的情报机构对那次袭击活动进行了研究。然而，在朝鲜去年6月对索尼的电影发出警告之后，美国官员在与索尼高管的讨论中，似乎并没有提到这一风险。即使是9月份，朝鲜开始针对索尼和其他目标发起钓鱼攻击时，“也没有引起警惕”，一名参与调查的人说。