WASHINGTON — Even while rapidly expanding its electronic surveillance around the world, the National Security Agency has lobbied inside the government to deploy the equivalent of a “Star Wars” defense for America’s computer networks, designed to intercept cyberattacks before they could cripple power plants, banks or financial markets.
华盛顿——国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）在全球迅速扩张电子监控项目的同时，也在政府内部进行了游说，主张为美国计算机网络部署一个相当于“星球大战计划”的防御项目，目的是在网络攻击重创电厂、银行或金融市场前将其拦截。
But administration officials say the plan, championed by Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the director of the National Security Agency and head of the Pentagon’s Cyber Command, has virtually no chance of moving forward given the backlash against the N.S.A. over the recent disclosures about its surveillance programs.
但政府官员表示，NSA局长、国防部网战司令部(Cyber Command)司令基思·B·亚历山大(Keith B. Alexander)支持的这项计划几乎没有取得进展的机会，原因是近期对NSA监视项目的披露导致了对该机构的反感。
Senior agency officials concede that much of the technology needed to filter malicious software, known as malware, by searching incoming messages for signs of programs designed to steal data, or attack banks or energy firms, is strikingly similar to the technology the N.S.A. already uses for surveillance.
NSA高级官员承认，过滤恶意软件所需的大部分技术都与NSA已经用于监视的技术极为相似。恶意软件程序旨在窃取数据，或是攻击银行和能源公司，而过滤技术的原理是在传入讯息当中搜索这些程序的迹象。
”The plan was always a little vague, at least as Keith described it, but today it may be Snowden’s biggest single victim,” one senior intelligence official said recently, referring to Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor who released documents revealing details of many of the agency’s surveillance programs.
“在过去，该计划的前途总是有点儿含糊不清，至少基思是这么说的，但现在，它大概是斯诺登手下最大的单一受害者，”一名高级情报官员最近说。他指的是爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)，这名前NSA承包商雇员公开了众多文件，揭露了该机构许多监视项目的细节。
“Whatever trust was there is now gone,” the official added. “I mean, who would believe the N.S.A. when it insists it is blocking Chinese attacks but not using the same technology to read your e-mail?”
“曾有的一切信任都已经荡然无存，”这名官员补充说。“我的意思是，即便NSA坚称它是在阻挡中国的攻击，并没有用相同的技术来阅读你的电子邮件，又有谁会相信呢？”
On Friday, the N.S.A. reported for the first time that it “touches about 1.6 percent” of all the traffic carried on the Internet each day. In a statement, it said it closely examines only a tiny fraction of that information. But General Alexander’s plan would put the agency, or Internet-service providers acting on its behalf, in the position of examining a far larger percentage of the world’s information flows.
周五，NSA首次公布，该机构“触及了约1.6%”的互联网每日总流量。NSA在一份声明中表示，它仔细检查的只有那些信息当中的一个微小部分。但按照亚历山大上将的计划，NSA，或者是为其效力的互联网服务提供商，将会对比例比这大得多的世界信息流进行分析。
Under this proposal, the government would latch into the giant “data pipes” that feed the largest Internet service providers in the United States, companies like A.T.&T. and Verizon. The huge volume of traffic that runs through those pipes, particularly e-mails, would be scanned for signs of anything from computer servers known for attacks on the United States or for stealing information from American companies. Other “metadata” would be inspected for evidence of malicious software.
根据这一计划，政府将进入一些巨大的“数据管道”，这些管道流入美国最大的几家互联网服务提供商，比如美国电话电报公司(AT&T)和威瑞森通讯公司(Verizon)。流经这些管道的海量数据，特别是电子邮件，将会被扫描，以便确定是否有迹象显示，数据来自已知用于袭击美国或从美国公司窃取信息的电脑服务器。其他“元数据”也将被检查，以便确定其是否带有恶意软件的特征。
“It’s defense at network speed,” General Alexander told a Washington security-research group recently, according to participants. “Because you have only milliseconds.”
来自华盛顿一个安全研究小组的一些人士称，亚历山大上将最近告诉这个小组，“它能以网络的速度防御，因为你只有几毫秒的反应时间。”
This summer, the N.S.A. has begun assembling scores of new cyber “offense” and “defense” teams, the agency’s most concrete step toward preparing the Pentagon and intelligence agencies for a new era of computer conflict. Erecting a national cyberdefense is a key element of that plan. At an interagency meeting that discussed the flood of cyberattacks directed daily at American networks, from Chinese efforts to steal corporate secrets to Iranian efforts to cripple financial institutions, General Alexander said, “I can’t defend the country until I’m into all the networks,” according to other officials who were present.
今年夏天，NSA已经开始集结几十个新的网络“攻击”和“防御”团队，这是该机构帮助国防部和情报机构适应计算机冲突新时代的最具体的举措。建立一个全国性网络防御系统是这一计划的关键部分。曾出席一个跨部门会议的一些其他部门官员称，亚历山大上将在会上说，“除非能进入所有网络，否则我无法捍卫我的国家。”该会议讨论了每天如潮水般涌向美国网络的网络攻击，包括中国试图窃取企业秘密的攻击行动，以及伊朗试图让美国金融机构陷入瘫痪的攻击行动。
The appeal of such a program is its seeming simplicity: The worst malware could be blocked before it reaches companies, universities or individual users, many of whom may be using outdated virus protections, or none at all. Normal commercial virus programs are always running days, or weeks, behind the latest attacks — and the protection depends on users’ loading the latest versions on their computers.
这样一个计划的吸引力在于它看上去很简单：破坏力最大的恶意软件在抵达企业、大学或个人用户前便会被屏蔽掉，许多企业、大学和个人用户用的可能是过时的病毒防护措施，或者根本没有采取防护措施。普通的商业病毒防护措施总是比最新攻击落后好几天乃至好几周，前提还得是用户将最新的版本装到了自己的计算机上。
The government has been testing a model for a national defense against cyberattack with major defense contractors including Lockheed Martin, Boeing and Raytheon. Early results were disappointing, but participants in the program — the specific details of which are heavily classified — say they are getting significantly improved results. Each company in the defense industrial base program now shares data on the kinds of attacks they are seeing, anonymously, with other participating companies.
政府一直在和包括洛克希德·马丁(Lockheed Martin)、波音(Boeing)和雷神(Raytheon)在内的主要国防承包商一起测试一个针对网络攻击的全国性防御系统模型。早期的测试结果不如人意，但该计划的参与者称，结果正在大幅改善。该计划的具体细节属于高度机密。现在，这个网络防御工业基础计划涉及的每家公司都会以匿名的方式，同参与计划的其他公司共享有关自己发现的攻击类型的数据。
But for the N.S.A., which is building a target list of servers used by the most aggressive cyberattackers, monitoring all Internet traffic would also be an intelligence bonanza. It would give it a real-time way to watch computer servers around the world, and focus more quickly on those it suspects are the breeding ground for governments or private hackers preparing attacks.
NSA正在对最凶悍的网络攻击发起者所使用的服务器创建一个目标名单。对该机构而言，监控所有互联网流量也会带来大量情报。此举会让该机构实时监控全世界的计算机服务器，而且，如果怀疑一些服务器是意图攻击的政府或私人黑客的温床，该机构将可以更快地锁定那些服务器。
Even before the Snowden revelations, General Alexander had encountered opposition. Top officials of the Department of Homeland Security, which is responsible for domestic defense of the Internet, complained that N.S.A. monitoring would overly militarize America’s approach to defending the Internet, rather than making sure users took the primary responsibility for protecting their systems.
早在斯诺登泄密事件发生之前，亚历山大上将就遇到了反对。来自负责国内互联网防御的国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)的一些高官抱怨说，NSA的监控会让美国保卫互联网的方式过于军事化，正确的做法是让互联网用户承担保护自己计算机系统的主要责任。
It appears unlikely that, with the administration divided, and faced with a backlash against the N.S.A. in Congress, any proposal for a formal plan for national cyberdefense will be submitted soon. Members of the intelligence committees in the House and Senate said that they were only vaguely aware of General Alexander’s plan, but that it would almost certainly require Congressional approval.
由于政府内部存在分歧，国会又对NSA产生了强烈的抵制情绪，有关部门似乎不太可能在短时间内提交关于国家网络防御正式计划的提案。参众两院情报委员会的一些成员称，他们对亚历山大上将的计划只有大概了解，但几乎确定无疑的是，这份计划需要得到国会的批准。
That is a fight the White House is not interested in having while it struggles to get a much more modest cybersecurity bill through Congress after years of arguments over privacy concerns and corporate America’s fears that Washington will dictate how companies protect data and how much they must spend on new defenses. The bill failed last year and passage this year appears in doubt.
白宫对这场战争并无兴趣。数年来，由于隐私方面的担忧，美国公司又担心政府会对公司保护数据的方法和新防御项目的必要花费指手画脚，人们一直争论不休。目前，白宫正在竭力促使国会通过一个温和得多的网络安全提案。该提案去年未被通过，今年似乎也难以通过。
Before the Snowden revelations, General Alexander’s idea appeared to be gaining some ground because of concerns over the cyber-enabled Chinese theft of critical corporate secrets, including some designs for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Internal intelligence reports, based on N.S.A. analysis, attributed an attack on American banks on a denial of service attack to Iran’s cybercorps, a unit of the Revolutionary Guards.
在斯诺登披露窃听项目之前，亚历山大上将的观点似乎获得了一些支持。原因是人们担心中国通过网络窃取了重要商业机密，包括F-35联合攻击战斗机(F-35 Joint Strike Fighter)的部分设计。一些美国银行受到了袭击，导致银行出现拒绝服务的故障。内部情报报告以NSA的分析为基础，认定此次袭击是伊朗革命卫队(Revolutionary Guards)的分支伊朗网络部队所为。
“After the Iranian attacks, we were looking at these ideas pretty hard,” said a recently departed senior official in the Obama national security team, who like other officials declined to be identified because of the sensitivities of the government’s discussions about building Internet defenses.
“在伊朗的袭击之后，我们非常严肃地考虑了这些观点，”奥巴马国家安全团队一名于近期离职的高级官员说。他和其他官员一样要求匿名，因为关于建立网络防御系统的政府讨论具有敏感性。
But this summer, the mood in Congress has changed. The White House only narrowly avoided a House vote to cut off the collection of metadata about telephone calls in the country. Suddenly a national debate emerged; along the way the N.S.A. admitted that until 2011 it had collected about 1 percent of all e-mails in the United States, until the program was canceled after being judged ineffective.
但是，今年夏季，国会的情绪发生了改变。众议院曾计划投票禁止有关部门收集美国境内的电话元数据，白宫只是勉强地躲过了众议院的这一举措。突然间，美国爆发了一场全国性争论；同时，NSA承认，迄2011年为止，它收集的电子邮件占美国境内所有电子邮件的1%左右，后来才认定该项目效果不佳，取消了该项目。
“Cyberissues usually change so rapidly because of the advance of technology,” said Peter D. Feaver, a Duke University professor who worked in the National Security Council in the Bush administration.
“由于科技进步，网络问题的变化往往非常快，”杜克大学(Duke University)教授彼得·D·菲弗(Peter D. Feaver)说。他曾在布什(Bush)政府的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)工作。
“But the biggest change in the last year has been political: Public skepticism about U.S. cyberoperations is dramatically higher today, and it could result in political constraints that were off the table even a year ago.”
“但是，去年的最大变化是在政治方面：如今，公众对美国网络行动的怀疑情绪大幅度增强，这种情绪可能会带来一些政治上的限制，而在短短一年之前，这些限制根本就不在考虑范围之内。”