BEIJING — Jiang Yilei is the girl next door who rants about dieting and nagging parents in the living room of her cluttered apartment here. She has bangs, wears minimal makeup and keeps two cats.
北京——姜逸磊是一个在凌乱的公寓客厅里絮叨减肥问题和抱怨父母的邻家女孩。她留着刘海，化着淡妆，还养了两只猫。
She is also one of China’s most sudden and popular online celebrities, better known as Papi Jiang. In less than a year, her business partners say, she has accumulated 44 million followers, across multiple platforms, with her fast-talking satirical videos.
她也是中国蹿红速度最快、知名度最高的网络名人之一，人称Papi酱。她的商业合作伙伴说，在不到一年的时间里，她用自己语速飞快的嘲讽视频在多个平台吸引了4400万粉丝。
Even though there is probably some overlap among platforms, that figure outstrips the followings of such popular YouTube celebrities as Ryan Higa (17.8 million) and Jenna Marbles (16.4 million).
尽管粉丝在各个平台上可能有一些重叠，但这个数字超越了瑞安·比嘉（Ryan Higa，1780万）和詹娜·马布尔（Jenna Marbles，1640万）等YouTube名人的粉丝数量。
Last month, Ms. Jiang’s first live broadcast — a rambling, unscripted 90-minute video — was watched more than 74 million times in one day. That was more views than Taylor Swift’s latest music video, “New Romantics,” received on YouTube in four months.
上个月，姜逸磊的直播首秀——一段时长90分钟、结构松散、没有预设脚本的视频——在一天内就获得7400万次观看。这比泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)的最新音乐视频《新浪漫主义》(New Romantics)在YouTube上用四个月获得的观看次数还要多。
True, most things in China are on a bigger scale than they are elsewhere. But even by Chinese standards, Ms. Jiang, 29, stands out, so much so that Chinese media outlets have taken to calling her the No. 1 online celebrity of 2016.
没错，大多数东西放到中国，规模都会比在其他地方大。但即便以中国的标准来看，29岁的姜逸磊也十分突出，以致于中国媒体机构开始称她为2016年第一网络红人。
“Papi Jiang is by far the most popular online celebrity,” said Kunkun Yu, chief executive of the Beijing-based online community app Linglong. “Many young Chinese people see her as their idol.”
“Papi酱是目前为止最受欢迎的网络名人，”总部位于北京的网上社区应用玲珑沙龙的首席执行官于困困说。“中国很多年轻人都把她看作自己的偶像。”
Ms. Jiang’s meteoric rise reflects the fast-changing nature of the Chinese internet and, in particular, its insatiable demand for content.
姜逸磊的迅速走红，反映了中国互联网快速变化的本质，尤其是它对内容无穷无尽的需求。
China’s web has become increasingly mobile driven, with more than 92 percent of the country’s 710 million internet users now coming to the web via their mobile phones, according to a report published this month by the official China Internet Network Information Center. They are using the internet to shop, chat with their friends and seek information and entertainment on apps like Weibo, a microblog platform, and Weixin, the social messaging app also known as WeChat.
官方的中国互联网信息中心本月发布的一份报告显示，中国的网络已经越来越多地由移动端驱动，在7.1亿中国网民中，有超过92%的人使用手机上网。他们在网上购物，与朋友聊天，在微博和微信等应用上获取信息和娱乐。
This has led to the growth of what Chinese have taken to calling zimeiti, literally “self-media,” an umbrella term for self-posted content on social media platforms.
这导致中国人所说的“自媒体”的数量不断增长，这是对用户自己在社交媒体平台上发布的内容的统称。
Yang Ming, Ms. Jiang’s business partner and a former classmate at the Central Academy of Drama in Beijing, said in an interview, “We saw that self-media was getting pretty big, so we thought, ‘Should we try to do something with this?’” (Ms. Jiang, who rarely speaks to the news media, declined to be interviewed.)
姜逸磊之前在中央戏剧学院的同学、如今的商业合伙人杨铭在接受采访时表示，“我看到自媒体做得越来越大，就想‘我们是不是也该试一试？’”（很少对新闻媒体讲话的姜逸磊拒绝了时报的采访请求。）
As recently as mid-2015, Mr. Yang said, not many people were making short videos in China, whereas in the United States, YouTube celebrities have been common for years. “They weren’t even being called short videos at the time,” he said. “They were just videos.”
杨铭表示，直到2015年中，中国都还没有多少人做短视频。而在美国，YouTube名人几年前就出现了，已经不稀奇了。“当时还不叫短视频，”他说。“就是视频。”
Ms. Jiang, who had returned to graduate school at the Central Academy of Drama after working in entertainment for several years, including as a stage actor and assistant director, started to experiment, playing with elements that would become part of her signature style: a digitally altered voice, rapid-fire delivery and jump cuts.
姜逸磊之前在娱乐业工作了几年，做过舞台演员、副导演，之后返回中央戏剧学院读研。这个时候，她开始做一些尝试，运用一些元素进行表演，这些后来成为她标志性风格的一部分：经过数字处理的声音、飞快的语速和跳跃式的剪辑。
Slowly, she began building a following, until one day last November when a video she made, poking fun at Shanghai women and their tendency to drop English words into conversation, went viral.
慢慢地，她的粉丝一点点增长。直到去年11月的一天，她做的一条拿上海女人及她们在谈话中夹杂英文的习惯开涮的视频，在网上疯传开来。
“I was shocked, scared to death,” she said in a June interview with the Chinese website Sina. “I thought, ‘What am I going to do?’ I couldn’t even eat anything.”
“当时我就愣住了，吓死了，”她在今年6月接受新浪网采访时说。“我说这怎么办啊，饭也吃不下了。”
Since then, she has made about 60 videos that focus on subjects familiar to educated young urbanites, like cheating boyfriends, celebrity culture and regional dialects. In one memorable example, she sounds off on how she hates it when people in love constantly talk about their partners. In another, she takes on the issue of gender stereotyping in China.
自打那时起，她聚焦于受过教育的都市年轻人颇为熟悉的话题——比如劈腿的男友、明星文化和方言——总共制作了60个视频。在一个令人印象深刻的视频中，她充分而又直率地表达了自己有多厌恶人们一谈恋爱就把恋爱对象挂在嘴上。在另一个视频中，她探讨了中国人关于性别的刻板印象。
“Things you have definitely heard at some point,” she announces to the camera. “This job is too tiring. It’s not suited for women.” Jump cut. “Playing basketball? Women are better off at home.” Jump cut. “A woman should have long hair.”
“我们在平常生活中经常会听到这样一些话，”她对着镜头说道。“这个工作太累了，不适合女性。”跳切。“姑娘家家的打什么篮球啊。”跳切。“女人还是要长头发才像个女人。”
She signs off in the two-minute video with what has become her catchphrase: “I’m Papi Jiang, a woman possessing both beauty and talent.”
这段两分钟长的视频以“我是Papi酱，一个集美貌与才华于一身的女子”作结。这句话已经成了她的口头禅。
For her audience, made up mostly of 20- to 30-somethings in coastal cities, the Shanghai-born Ms. Jiang offers a fresh, urban perspective rarely seen in Chinese comedy.
姜逸磊的粉丝以沿海城市二三十岁的年轻人为主，出生于上海的姜逸磊为他们提供了中国喜剧中难得一见的鲜活的城市视角。
“Before, you had popular stand-up comedians like Zhao Benshan, but it was often a very rural type of humor, with jokes about things like plowing fields and eating leeks,” said Ms. Yu, the online community app executive.
“以前有赵本山之类的喜剧演员，但那常常是一种极为乡野的幽默，讲的笑话都和耕地、吃韭菜之类的事情有关，”玲珑沙龙CEO于困困说。
She added: “Papi’s appeal, on the other hand, is with the white-collar workers who want to talk about how they’re 39 years old and not married yet, and what should they do.”
她还说：“另一方面，Papi酱很受白领人士喜爱，他们想要讨论的是自己怎么39岁了还没结婚，该怎么办。”
As Ms. Jiang’s popularity skyrocketed, internet companies and investors began to notice. In recent years, since the government began cracking down on pirated content and, companies have been thirsty for high-quality original material made locally.
随着她的一夜爆红，姜逸磊逐渐受到互联网企业和投资者的关注。近年来，由于政府开始打压盗版内容，企业对本土原创内容的渴求颇为强烈。
Against that background, Ms. Jiang’s appeal as someone who writes, shoots and edits her own videos is clear.
在此背景下，能自己写、拍、剪的姜逸磊显然有其吸引力。
In March, she became one of the first viral Chinese stars to attract venture capital, when a group made up of four major institutional investors announced that it was putting $1.8 million into her company.
今年3月，姜逸磊成为中国网络名人当中首批吸引到资本投资的人。由四家大机构投资商组成的团体宣布，向她的公司注资1200万元人民币。
“In its current form, the market has only seen a succession of short-lived online celebrities,” one of those investors, Luo Zhenyu, the founder and host of a popular online talk show, told the Chinese online publication The Paper. “We’re looking at a person who has unlimited potential to transform this market and bring a whole new business logic.”
“在现在网红一代一代更替的市场形态中，我们看到的是一个人转型升级的无尽空间，以及一个全新商业罗辑的破土而出，”其中一名投资人罗振宇告诉中国在线刊物澎湃。罗振宇本人创办并主持了一档热门在线脱口秀。
Having secured the investment, Ms. Jiang and her business partners are now focused on building up PapiTube, a content platform through which they have begun to support and develop other young content creators in China.
拿到这笔投资后，姜逸磊及其商业合伙人如今在专心打造内容平台PapiTube。他们开始在这一平台上支持与打造中国其他的年轻内容生产者。