PBS’s “Frontline” enjoys some morbid good timing on Tuesday night, presenting its report “Secret State of North Korea” in the wake of the execution last month of Jang Song-thaek, uncle of the North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un, and the return to the country this month of the former N.B.A. player and amateur diplomat Dennis Rodman.
周四晚上，美国公共广播公司（Public Broadcasting Station，简称PBS）的《前线》节目(Frontline)播出报道《秘密的朝鲜》(Secret State of North Korea)，其时机惊人地恰到好处：上个月，朝鲜独裁者金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)刚被处决；前NBA球员、业余外交官丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)又在这个月再次来到朝鲜。
Demonstrating its usual good news judgment, the program inserts a reference to Mr. Jang’s death and its implications for the stability of Mr. Kim’s regime but makes no mention of Mr. Rodman.
节目展示了其一贯敏锐的新闻判断能力，中间插入了一段讲述张成泽之死以及这对金正恩政权稳定的影响，不过并未提到罗德曼。
There’s no way to judge how characteristic the images are, but there’s no denying their grim fascination. Piles of rubble, ox and hand carts and abandoned, starving children are recurring themes.
我们无法判断这些画面有多大代表性，但不可否认，它们的残酷之处引人关注。成堆的碎石、牛和手推车，还有被抛弃的、饥饿的孩子，反复出现。
In an ad hoc encampment of orphans, a boy of perhaps 9 or 10 is asked by the photographer if he has thought of seeking work chopping wood. He can’t, he replies, because he’s missing an arm, cut off by a train.
在一个临时搭建的孤儿营，一个大约9到10岁的男孩被摄像师问到，有没有想过找个砍木头的工作。他回答说，他没办法砍木头，因为在一次火车事故中，他的一条胳膊没了。
Particularly gripping is a scene illustrating the rising power of private enterprise: A woman using a truck as an illegal bus fights back against a soldier who tries to stop her, asking where his stars are (to indicate his rank) and shoving him out of the way.
一个讲述私有企业权力不断增强的场景尤其引人注意：一名用卡车当做大巴非法拉客的女性，正和一个试图阻止她的士兵作斗争，她让士兵展示一下自己有几星（表明他的军衔），并把他猛推到一旁。
Around this raw reportage, the program investigates the question of whether North Korea is approaching a tipping point where the flow of information into the country could foster radical change. We’re shown DVDs and thumb drives containing movies and television shows being smuggled across the border, and North Koreans huddled in their bedrooms watching them.
在这个毫无粉饰的调查性报道中，节目探讨了朝鲜是否正在接近一个转折点，即流向这个国家的信息可能带来剧变。我们看到，DVD及储存电影和电视节目的U盘被走私到朝鲜，朝鲜人挤在卧室里观看这些东西。
Perhaps the most significant change the program reports is the explosion of cellphone ownership since these devices were reintroduced five years ago. The phones for sale can call only within North Korea but can be illegally adapted to make international calls.
也许，这个片子所报道的朝鲜最大的变化是，自5年前手机被再次引进该国以来，手机拥有者数量激增。该国出售的手机只能打朝鲜国内电话，但在经过非法调试后，也可以用来打国际长途。
The experts the program consults agree that change is taking place, but some are more optimistic than others about its pace.
为节目提供咨询意见的专家都认为，变化正在发生，但一些人对变化的速度更为乐观。