SAY farewell to vocabulary flashcards with arcane words like “compendious,” “membranous,” “mendacious,” “pugnacious,” “depreciatory,” “redolent,” “treacly” and “jettison.” In the new SAT, to be unveiled in 2015, David Coleman, president of the College Board, wants to get rid of obscure words that are . . . just SAT words, and replace them with more common words like “synthesis,” “distill” and “transform,” used in context as they will be in college and in life.
向包含compendious（简要）、membranous（膜状的）、mendacious（虚假的）、pugnacious（好战的）、depreciatory（贬值的）、redolent（芬芳的）、treacly（甜蜜的）以及jettison（抛弃）这些生僻词汇的单词卡片说再见吧。美国大学理事会(College Board)的总裁大卫·科尔曼(David Coleman)表示，在于2015年即将面世的新SAT（Scholastic Assessment Test，即学术能力评估测试）中，这些生涩难懂、通常只在SAT中出现的单词将会被一些更加常用的单词所取代，比如说synthesis（综合）、distill（蒸馏）以及transform（变换），它们将会在与大学校园以及日常生活类似的语境之中出现。
And the math? “There are a few things that matter disproportionately, like proportional reasoning, linear equations and linear functions,” Mr. Coleman said. “Those are the kinds of things we’re going to concentrate on.”
那数学方面呢？“有一些部分的所占比重不大合适，像比例推理、线性方程以及线性函数，”科尔曼说，“那就是我们要集中精力解决的事。”
“And it shouldn’t just be about picking the right answer,” he said. “It should be about being able to explain, and see, the applications of this math.”
“考试不应该仅仅是选择对的答案，”他说，“应该是要有解释以及分析应用这些数学知识的能力。”
Big changes are coming to the nation’s two competing admissions tests.
美国两大互相竞争的升学考试正在发生着巨大的变化。
Mr. Coleman, who became president last October, is intent on rethinking the SAT to make it an instrument that meshes with what students are learning in their classrooms. Meanwhile, the ACT, which has always been more curriculum-based, is the first of the two to move into the digital age. In adapting its test for the computer, ACT Inc. is tiptoeing past the fill-in-the-bubble Scantron sheets toward more creative, hands-on questions.
科尔曼从去年10月起担任总裁，他决心重新考虑SAT的设置，使之成为筛选那些真正用心在课堂里学习的学生的工具。与此同时，一直都基于课程设置的ACT（American College Testing，即美国大学入学考试）则是最先进入数字时代的。ACT公司正在推行用电脑进行测试的改革，将填涂答题卡的方式逐渐过渡改为更加有创造性的实用性问题。
In their own ways, both organizations are striving to produce something beyond a college admissions test. ACT plans to start yearly testing as early as third grade to help guide students to college readiness. One of Mr. Coleman’s goals is for the College Board to help low-income students see broader college possibilities.
这两家机构都在用他们自己的方式努力打造一个不仅是大学入学考试的考试。ACT计划从三年级起就每年测试一次，以帮助学生们为大学学习准备就绪。科尔曼的目标之一就是让美国大学理事会帮助来自低收入家庭的学生们看到更广阔的大学入学前景。
Since he arrived at the College Board in October, Mr. Coleman has been working on a fundamental redesign of the SAT, which he announced in February. The test, he said, should focus on “things that matter more so that the endless hours students put into practicing for the SAT will be work that’s worth doing.”
自从去年10月加入美国大学理事会后，科尔曼一直都致力于对SAT进行根本性的重新设计，并在2月进行了正式宣布。他说该考试应该把关注放在“更重要的东西上，让学生们为了SAT而练习的无数个小时都是有用的、值得的”。
Citing the College Board’s Advanced Placement tests as a model, he said he aims to have a test that requires students to demonstrate the skills that good classroom teachers drill them on to reach academic excellence.
引用美国大学理事会的大学预修课程考试(Advanced Placement Tests)作为一个模型，他说他的目的是打造一个能够让学生们展示学术技能的考试，展示出那些优秀教师为了让学生在学术上更加卓越所教给他们的那些东西。
Deciding what students should master has been Mr. Coleman’s métier: he was an architect of the Common Core standards — guidelines for what students should learn in each grade — that are being put into place in most states. So it is no surprise that he has clear views on what the SAT should test, although he declines to offer specifics because College Board members need to be consulted on every element of the redesign. Most likely, he said, the outlines — sections on critical reading and math and a 25-minute essay — will remain the same. But Mr. Coleman has made known his discomfort with the essay, which puts no premium on accuracy. Students can get top marks for declaring that the Declaration of Independence was written by Justin Bieber and sparked the French Revolution, as long as the essay is well organized and develops a point of view.
决定学生们应该掌握哪些知识是科尔曼的特长：他参与制定了共同核心标准(Common Core)——对学生在每一年级应该学习哪些知识的指导方针——大多数州都采用了它。所以他对SAT应该考些什么的清晰规划并不令人惊讶，不过因为美国大学理事会的成员们需要对改革的每一部分都进行协商，他拒绝向我们提供具体细节。他说，考试的架构——辩证性阅读、数学以及25分钟写作——很有可能不会改变。但科尔曼表达了他对写作部分的不满，因为它并没有体现对精确的要求。只要语言组织得体，拥有自己的观点，学生们就算是声称《独立宣言》是贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)撰写的并且触发了法国大革命，也可以获得高分。
“We should not be encouraging students to make up the facts,” Mr. Coleman said. “We should be asking them to construct an argument supported by their best evidence.”
“我们不应该鼓励学生编造事实，”科尔曼说，“我们应该让他们用最合适的论据来支持与建构一个论证。”
Over and over, Mr. Coleman returns to the need to prod students into marshaling their evidence. “The heart of the revised SAT will be analyzing evidence,” he said. “The College Board is reaching out to teachers and college faculty to help us design questions that, for example, could ask students to use math to analyze the data in an economics study or the results of a scientific experiment, or analyze the evidence provided within texts in literature, history, geography or natural science.”
科尔曼一再地提到促使学生重视整理论据的重要性。“改革后，SAT的核心将是对论据的分析，”他说，“美国大学理事会正在请教师们以及大学教员们帮助我们设计问题，比如说，可以让学生们用数学方法来分析一个经济学研究中的数据或一个科学实验的结果，抑或是分析文学、历史、地理或者自然科学的文本中所提供的事例论据。”
The last overhaul of the SAT was not so long ago. In 2005, spurred by the threat that the University of California system might no longer consider its test for admission, the College Board introduced with fanfare the “New SAT,” dropping quantitative comparisons and the “warm is to cool as top is to ___” analogies and adding more advanced math, in the process making the test more like the ACT.
SAT的上一次改革并不是很久之前的事。2005年，加利福尼亚大学提出他们的录取系统可能不再将该考试成绩考虑在内，这一威胁促使美国大学理事会高调引入了“新SAT”的概念，取消了数量比较以及像“‘暖’对‘冷’类同于‘顶’对___”这样的类比题，加入了更多的高等数学题，这个进程将SAT变得越来越像ACT了。
Competition between the two tests has not let up: for the first time last year, the ACT surpassed the SAT in market share. With the new redesign, the SAT seems likely to inch even closer in content to the ACT, which focuses more on grammar, usage and mechanics than on vocabulary.
在这两个考试之间的竞争并没有停止：去年，ACT的市场份额第一次超过了SAT。在重新调整设计过之后，SAT在内容上与ACT更为接近了，相较于词汇要更加注重语法、应用以及技巧。
Robert Schaeffer, public education director of FairTest, is dismissive of redesigns past and present.
罗伯特·舍弗勒(Robert Schaeffer)是“公平考试”(FairTest)的公共教育主管，他对于两个考试过去以及现在的改革并不看好。
“Through all these changes, neither the SAT nor ACT has gotten better in terms of two things that matter,” he said. “One is predicting accurately how well a student will do in college. They’ve still got the same weak-to-moderate predictive power — less than a student’s high school grades. And there’s still a problem with equity. The tests still underpredict for females and overpredict for males, and they don’t do well for low-income students.”
“在所有的这些改变中，不管是SAT还是ACT都没有在两个最重要的问题上变得更好，”他说。“一个是精确地预测学生在大学时的表现。他们的预测能力还是一样地处于弱以及中等之间的程度——还不如学生的高中成绩有用。另外在公平方面的问题也还是存在。两个考试仍然都给予女性过低评价，而给男性的评价则过高，在对待低收入学生方面他们做得也不好。”
Mr. Coleman talks, intensely, of “moving from delivering assessment to delivering opportunity” to low-income students who do not invest enough in the college-admission process.
科尔曼在谈话中热切地提到过，对于那些在大学录取过程之中没有进行足够投资的低收入家庭出来的学生们，要从“给予评估转化到给予机会”。
“Kids need to have a level of ambition,” he said, “because what we find is that absent the intensity of a peer group committed to getting into college, kids just fall away, even a lot of the ones who do very well on the test, and could go to top colleges.”
“孩子们需要有一定的抱负，”他说，“因为我们发现，当一个同龄人群体整体都缺少进入大学的积极热情时，孩子就会中止学业，他们中有很多人甚至在考试中做得相当不错，原本可以进入最顶尖的大学。”
Struck by recent research on how few high-achieving low-income students apply to top colleges — but how many more do so if given information about their options — he said that the College Board must help ensure that these students get information about colleges they could aspire to and financial aid that would pay for it.
在最近调查中，表现上佳的贫困学生最终进入顶尖大学的人数之低让他震惊——但是如果他们能对自己眼前的选择了解充足的信息，这个数字又将会提高多少——他说，美国大学理事会必须帮助这些学生，确保他们得到他们渴望进入的大学以及可支付学费的财政援助的相关信息。 
“We will consider students who take the assessment as within our care, and that means that sending out a score report isn’t the end of it,” he said.
“我们会为那些参加我们考试的学生们着想，这就意味着，发送成绩报告并不是一切的结束，”他说。
If the SAT is a product of the East Coast elite, so is Mr. Coleman, a Yale graduate, Rhodes scholar, former McKinsey consultant and son of the outgoing president of Bennington College.
如果说SAT是东海岸精英群体的产物，那科尔曼本人也一样：他是耶鲁大学毕业生、罗氏奖学金获得者、前麦肯锡(McKinsey)顾问以及即将卸任的本宁顿学院(Bennington College)校长的儿子。
And like his test, Jon L. Erickson, president of ACT Inc.’s education division, is a low-key Midwesterner. He grew up in Wisconsin, taught high school, was an academic affairs specialist at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, and has been at ACT, which is based in Iowa, for 30 years.
而像他的考试一样，ACT公司的教育部总裁乔恩·埃里克森(Jon L. Erickson)是一个低调的中西部人。他在威斯康星州长大并接受了高中教育，曾是威斯康辛大学米尔沃基分校的一位学术事务专家，在位于爱荷华州的ACT已经工作了30年。
This organization, too, is preparing for major change. Starting in 2015, the ACT will be available on a computer as well as, for the time being, on paper. Those who take the test on a computer will see a new breed of questions — free-response questions in which students manipulate on-screen images to form their conclusions. In one sample question, students move a plunger on a cylindrical gas tank to change gas pressure and temperature. They then write a few sentences describing the relationship between distance and pressure and between temperature and pressure, and graph those relationships.
这个组织也正准备着一次巨大的变革。从2015年开始，ACT将可以在电脑上进行考试，长久以来的书面考试形式也将继续。参加机考的学生将看到新型的问题——自由问答题，学生可以操作屏幕上的图像来得出他们最后的结论。在一份样卷上，学生们把一个活塞放到柱形气缸上来改变气压与温度。然后他们要写下几句话，来描述距离与压力的关系以及温度与压力的关系，再用图表对这些关系加以说明。
In another question, students “pour” four different liquids into beakers to see which one rises to the top and which one sinks to the bottom. Based on their experimentation, they predict what would happen if all four liquids were combined.
在另一个问题中，学生们要把4种不同的液体“倾倒”至烧杯中，来看哪种会浮到最顶部，哪种会沉到底部。基于他们的实验，他们要预测将这4种液体进行混合之后会发生些什么。
“Those kinds of questions are more expensive to produce, but I think students will be more engaged by them,” said Mr. Erickson, whose predecessor, Cynthia B. Schmeiser, defected to the College Board in April.
“这几种问题制作起来更昂贵，但我觉得它们对学生们的吸引力会更大，”埃里克森说，他的前任辛西娅·施迈泽(Cynthia B. Schmeiser)在4月转投了美国大学理事会。
Many details of digitization remain to be resolved. About a third of schools don’t have the capacity to accommodate all their students in a computer lab or other lockdown setting, Mr. Erickson said. Will it be entire schools or individual students who opt for a paper-and-pencil test? Which questions will be graded by computer, and which by humans? And because the two versions need to be comparable, just how many beyond-the-bubble questions will be added to the mix?
数字化的许多细节问题都需要进一步解决。埃里克森说，有1/3的学校没有让所有学生都在电脑实验室里进行考试的能力，或者是有其他监考设置上的问题。是整所学校的所有学生还是个别学生会选择用纸张与铅笔答题？哪些问题的答案会用电脑判卷，哪些由人批改？因为这两种版本需要有可比性，所以应该在其中加入多少非选择题？
One decision that has been made: content will be unchanged.
他们现在已经有了一个决定：考试内容将不会改变。
“Our approach will still be based on what students learn in the classroom,” Mr. Erickson said. “Where we’re pushing the envelope is to be more relevant, timely and actionable.”
“我们的方式仍然是基于学生们在课堂上所学到的东西的，”埃里克森说，“我们正在超越过往之处，是想要变得更相关、更及时以及更可行。”
Indeed, ACT wants to reach ever younger — into elementary school. Next year, it will start rolling out a series of computer-based tests that track student learning over time as well as progress in the current school year, and measure how far above or below grade level a student is in core subjects. Alabama, for one, has signed on to use the tests as its end-of-year assessment for Grades 3 to 8. In the program, parents and teachers will get increasingly detailed reports outlining the skills needed to be ready for college.
的确，ACT想要扩展到更年轻的领域——到小学中去。明年，他们将开始一系列基于计算机的考试，追踪学生们在当前这一学年中随着时间与进度推进的学习状况。阿拉巴马州已经签约，三年级到八年级的学生将使用这系列考试作为学年的年终评估。在这个项目中，家长和老师将得到进一步的细节报告，其中列出那些为了升入大学而需要掌握的技能。
“Like a lot of people, I do sometimes worry about how many tests children have to take these days,” Mr. Erickson said. “But we’re not just trying to add more tests. We’re trying to give students and teachers more information that can help them.”
“像很多人一样，我有时的确会担心如今的孩子们到底要参加多少考试，”埃里克森说，“但我们并不只是在尝试增加更多的考试。我们正试图给学生和教师更多能够帮助到他们的信息。”
“The spine of everything we do is college readiness,” he said. “Now our agenda of college readiness has become the national agenda.”
“我们所做的每一件事，贯穿始终的核心都是为大学升学作准备，”他说。“现在我们的大学升学准备日程已经成为了全国性的日程。”