High school seniors with poor grades and even worse SAT scores, you may be just what one of the nation’s most prestigious liberal arts colleges is looking for.
如果你是高中高年级的学生，学习成绩很差，SAT（Scholastic Assessment Test，即“学术能力评估测试”）成绩甚至还要更糟，那你可能就是全美最负盛名的一所文理学院要找的人。
You need not be president of the debate club or captain of the track team. No glowing teacher recommendations are required. You just need to be smart, curious and motivated, and prove it with words — 10,000 words, in the form of four, 2,500-word research papers.
无需拥有辩论俱乐部主席或者田径队队长的头衔，也无需提交光彩夺目的教师推荐信，只要你是一个头脑聪明、富于求知欲和进取心的人，并且能用1万个单词——撰写4篇2500单词长的研究论文——证明这一点就行。
The research topics are formidable and include the cardinal virtue of ren in Confucius’s “The Analects,” “the origin of chirality (or handedness) in a prebiotic life,” Ezra Pound’s view of “The Canterbury Tales,” and how to design a research trial using microbes transplanted from the human biome. If professors deem the papers to be worthy of a B+ or better by the college’s standards, you are in.
研究课题令人望而生畏：包括孔子在《论语》(The Analects)中阐述的基本德行——“仁”；“前生物生命手性（或手征性）的起源”；埃兹拉·庞德(Ezra Pound)对《坎特伯雷故事集》(The Canterbury Tales)的看法；以及如何以移植自人类微生物群的微生物为研究对象，设计一项研究试验。如果这所大学的教授认为你的论文按照该校标准可以获得B+更好的成绩，那你就可以被录取。
The college is Bard, in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., and it says the new option, which has not previously been announced but is to begin this fall, is an attempt to return the application process to its fundamental goal: rewarding the best candidates, rather than just those who are best able to market themselves to admissions committees.
开出上述条件的是位于纽约州哈得逊河畔安嫩代尔(Annandale-on-Hudson)的巴德学院(Bard College)。该校称，这个此前从未被公布过的新方案将于今年秋天开始实施，旨在令申请程序回归最基本的目标：要让最优秀的申请者得到回报，而不是那些最善于向招生委员会做自我推销的申请者。
“It’s kind of declaring war on the whole rigmarole of college admissions and the failure to foreground the curriculum and learning,” Leon Botstein, Bard’s president of 38 years, said in an interview. Saying the prevailing system was “loaded with a lot of nonsense that has nothing to do with learning,” he hailed the new approach as a “return to basics, to common sense” and added, “You ask the young person: are they prepared to do university-level work?”
担任巴德学院院长有38年的莱昂·波特斯坦(Leon Botstein)在接受采访时表示，“可以说这是在向高校招生的一整套冗长复杂的程序，以及不够注重申请者所学课程和学业的风气宣战。”波特斯坦认为，现行的体系“承载了一大堆毫无价值的东西，跟专业知识完全无关”。他对新的招生方式赞誉有加，称其“回归基础、回归常识”，他还补充道，“你得问问那些年轻人：他们为从事大学水平的研究工作做好准备了吗？”
Dr. Botstein said he is not just out to change admissions at Bard, but to “start a debate about the kind of dishonesty that prevails” in college admissions.
波特斯坦称，他不只是要改革巴德学院的招生程序，而且还要围绕高校招生过程中“盛行的那种不诚实，展开一场大讨论”。
His timing is propitious. The National Association for College Admission Counseling has called on colleges to consider eliminating the SAT and the ACT from their admissions requirements (as Bard, among other colleges, has done), saying the exams underrepresent the abilities of some students, in particular minorities, while favoring those who can afford coaching.
他所选择的时机十分有利。美国大学招生咨询协会（National Association for College Admission Counseling，简称NACAC）已经在呼吁高等院校，把SAT和ACT成绩从其录取条件中剔除（就像巴德学院和其他一些高校所做的那样）。该协会称，这些考试对负担得起培训费用的学生有利，但却未能充分反映另外一些学生，尤其是少数族裔学生的能力。
Over recent decades, Bard, which charges $45,730 for tuition, has developed a reputation as a college proudly out of step with the times. In an era when many institutions are promoting professional training, Bard encourages broad intellectual experimentation. Its faculty attracts many celebrated scholars and artists, foremost among them Dr. Botstein himself, who when not consumed with his work as a president or a scholar has traveled the world as an orchestral conductor.
近几十年来，学费达45730美元（约合28万元人民币）的巴德学院一直是一所走在时代前端的大学，它以此著称并引以为傲。在一个许多机构都在推行职业培训的时代，巴德学院却提倡进行广泛的“智识实验”(intellectual experimentation)。许多著名学者和艺术家都被吸引到了它的教师队伍之中，包括波特斯坦本人——每当不必以校长或者学者的身份忙于工作的时候，他都在以乐队指挥的身份周游世界。
This is not Bard’s first attempt to shake up the admissions process. In 1978, it began inviting applicants to campus for a day of academic seminars and meetings with admissions officers. Within two days, the students, who must also submit standard application materials, are informed of their fate. That avenue will remain in place, as will the common application, a more conventional form used by over 400 colleges. There is no set number of how many students will be admitted through each method.
这不是巴德学院第一次设法对招生程序进行改革。它从1978年开始，邀请申请人抽出一天时间到校园里，参加学术座谈，并与招生人员会面。他们在两天内就能收到关于自己命运的通知，这些受邀的学生也需要提交标准的申请材料。这条途径将继续存在。与其他400多所高校并无二致的常规招生程序也会继续存在。它通过每种方式招收多少学生并无定数。
Jim Rawlins, who just ended his tenure as president of the admissions counselors group, said many colleges experiment with the admissions formula, but few quite this drastically. “I really do think we’ve heard about every scenario,” he said. “But every once in a while we go, Wow, haven’t heard that one before.”
刚刚卸任NACAC主席一职的吉姆·罗林斯(Jim Rawlins)说，许多大学会在招生程序上进行新的尝试，但没有谁做出如此巨大的改变。“我原本真的以为我们已经见到了各种情景，”他说，“但每隔一些时候都会发现，哇，这个是以前没听说过的。”
Bard’s audition is open book: Along with the menu of 17 questions, the college’s Web site will provide all the relevant source materials — from a Nobel lecture about prion disorders to the United Nations Charter to an Aeschylus play — with which to address them. (Additional research is permitted if properly documented.) Mary Backlund, Bard’s director of admission, said that that access will place students who may not have encountered the subjects in school or do not have good local libraries on equal footing with those who attended elite high schools.
巴德学院的选拔是开卷性质的，学校的网站上给出了列有17个题目的清单，并提供与之相关的所有原始资料供解答问题时参考，从诺贝尔奖得主关于朊病毒疾病的讲座，到联合国宪章，再到埃斯库罗斯(Aeschylus)的一出戏剧，不一而足。（如果能提供充分的资料，也可以进行额外的研究。）巴德学院招生主任玛丽·巴克兰德(Mary Backlund)称，采取这一办法的好处是：可以让也许没在学校里学过这些课程，或者所在地区没有高品质图书馆的学生，与那些上过精英高中的学生公平竞争。
Nicholas Lemann, the author of “The Big Test: The Secret History of the American Meritocracy,” a book about the SAT, warned that solely merit-based admissions standards were all but impossible to create. “I appreciate the incredible appeal, especially to Americans, of canceling out background factors,” he said, “but it can’t be done if you’re looking at people at that age on basically educational credentials.”
尼古拉斯·莱曼(Nicholas Lemann)写过一本关于SAT的书，《大考：美国英才教育秘史》(The Big Test: The Secret History of the American Meritocracy)。他警告说说，几乎无法创造出纯粹基于才能的招生标准。“我很明白剔除背景因素具有极大的吸引力，尤其是对美国人很有吸引力，”他说，“但如果你基本上还在以教育程度来衡量这个年龄层的人，这一点就不可能实现。”
To participate, students will have to sign a pledge that the work is their own. If they are accepted, they will be asked to provide a character reference from their school. As to the possibility that some applicants might violate their pledge, Dr. Botstein has decided not to dwell on it. “Why not show a measure of trust?” he said. “Go the other direction, not assume the kid is going to cheat on you. Let’s take the high road.”
参加的学生必须签下承诺书，表明所有的工作都是他们独自完成的。如果被录取了，他们还得提供一份来自其高中的推荐信担保其品格。至于某些申请人可能会违反承诺的情况，波特斯坦决定不再担心这个问题了。“为什么不表现出对他们的信任？”他说，“可以从另一个角度看问题，别以为孩子们要欺骗你。还是相信正面的事吧。”
A bigger obstacle may be the sheer effort that this assignment entails. Students will be expected to write essays totaling 10,000 words — about one-sixth the length of many novels. “You could probably do it in a weekend,” Ms. Backlund said. “Let’s say a week, without disrupting your personal life too much.”
完成布置下来的任务需要付出艰苦卓绝的努力，这可能是一个更大的障碍。学生们得按照要求写出相关论文，总计10000个单词——长度几乎大约是很多小说的六分之一。“你也许可以花一个周末把它们写完，”巴克兰德说，“就假设是一个星期吧，别让你的私人生活受到太多干扰。”
Yao Wen, 17, a senior at Stuyvesant High School in New York City, had a different assessment: “Four research papers consume a lot of time. I think three months,” the time between the posting of the questions and the deadline, “is not enough.”
纽约市史岱文森高中(Stuyvesant High School)学生，17岁的高年级生姚文（Yao Wen，音译）对此有不同看法：“写4篇研究论文需要花费大把时间，我觉得要3个月”，从学校在网站上贴出题目之后到截止日期之前的这段时间“并不够用”。
An English teacher at Stuyvesant, Walter Gern, noted that one essay question concerned a 1633 poem by George Herbert, which by chance he taught in class on Friday. For students whose schools do not expose them to that poem — or to German philosophers or Russian novelists — he said, “I can’t imagine a kid doing it on his or her own.”
在史岱文森高中教英语的沃尔特·格恩(Walter Gern)提到，一篇论文的题目是乔治·赫伯特(George Herbert)写于1633年的一首诗，这首诗他周五在课堂上刚好讲过。有些学生在自己的学校里并没有接触过这首诗歌——或者德国哲学家、俄罗斯小说家之类的知识，就这部分学生而言，他说，“我无法想象一个孩子可以独自写出论文。”
But Caspar Lant, 17, a senior at Stuyvesant who said he did not have the best grades, said the new option would be “really attractive to a student like me.”
不过，自称学习成绩并非一流的史岱文森高中17岁的高年级生卡斯帕·兰特(Caspar Lant)表示，新的招生方案“对于我这类学生极具吸引力”。
Dr. Botstein acknowledged that the workload might be impractical for some applicants. But he finds a virtue in it, too. “The great thing is, anyone who completes it is better for it. No one,” he said, “is better for having taken the College Board.”
波特斯坦承认，有些申请人不可能完成这么大的工作量，但他还是认为其中有好处。 “最棒的一点是，能完成的人都更适合这种选拔方式，”他说，“而不是参加大学委员会(College Board)的考试。”