BEIJING — The announcement by administrators of the SAT college entrance test that scores are being withheld for students from China and South Korea who took the exam earlier this month has infuriated many and raised anxiety about what for a number of them is a high-stakes college application process.
北京——美国大学入学考试学术能力评估测试（Scholastic Assessment Test，简称SAT）的管理者此前表示，将暂缓公布于本月上旬参加考试的中国和韩国学生的成绩。这项声明让许多人感到愤怒，也引起了他们对大学申请过程的担心——对许多人来说，这个过程事关重大。
The Educational Testing Service, the company that administers the test worldwide, said Wednesday that it was withholding the scores of those who took the test on Oct. 11, at least temporarily, because of suspicions of cheating “based on specific, reliable information.” The company referred in a statement to “organizations that seek to illegally obtain test materials for their own profit, to the ultimate detriment of all students.
负责在全世界管理这项考试的美国教育考试服务中心（Educational Testing Service，简称ETS）周三表示，将延期公布10月11日的应试者的成绩，至少临时推迟，因为“基于确切、可靠的信息”，可能存在作弊行为。该公司在声明中提到，“一些组织试图为了自己的利益，非法获取考试内容，最终损害了所有学生的利益”。
The announcement about the withholding of scores came just days before deadlines for early application for many colleges and universities in the United States. Some students in China and South Korea complained that the move was too broad, and that the administrators should be taking action against only those students suspected of cheating.
暂缓公布成绩的消息发出时，距离许多美国高校的提前申请截止日期仅剩几天。一些中国和韩国考生抱怨道，此次行动范围太广，管理者应该只对那些存在作弊嫌疑的学生采取行动。
“I’m very anxious and angry,” said Wei Jialiang, 18, a senior at Miyun High School, in a Beijing suburb. “Why the Chinese? If there were cheaters, just single out them; don’t drag us all into the mess. Every exam has cheaters, and it’s not like that it happens only in Asia.”
“我很生气，也很焦虑，”18岁的魏家亮说，他在位于北京市郊的密云中学读高三。“为什么就中国人没成绩？如果有人考场作弊了，那你应该去抓他，而不是把我们一大片人都牵扯进去。每次考试都有作弊，而且也不一定只有亚洲区作弊。”
“Right now, I really don’t know what to do,” he added. “After all, I took the exam and paid the fee. It’s your duty to inform me of the score. It’s the College Board’s responsibility to root out leaks and cheats, not that of the students.”
“现在这个情况，根本不知道该怎么办，”他还说。“毕竟我考试了，我交给你考试费了，你有义务告诉我该什么时候出成绩。”避免泄题和作弊的责任，应当由美国大学理事会(College Board)来承担，“而不是让学生来承担”。
The College Board, a nonprofit organization, creates the SAT and contracts with the Educational Testing Service to provide testing security and administration overseas.
大学理事会是个非营利组织，它创设了SAT考试，并与ETS签订合同，由后者提供考试监督并管理海外的考试。
Mr. Wei said he was relying on a good score from the October test to help offset a score from June that “wasn’t so good.” He said people were rushing now to book slots to take the test in December, in case administrators declared the October scores invalid. But results from a December test would be too late for many students applying for early admission, since schools selecting students in that process usually inform candidates in December.
魏家亮说，他要靠10月的好成绩来弥补6月“不是太理想”的成绩。他说，考生们现在争先恐后地报名参加12月的考试，以防管理方宣布10月的考试成绩作废。但是，对于许多进行提前申请的学生而言，倘若12月参加考试，成绩下来时就太晚了，因为提前录取过程中，挑选学生的学校往往会在12月通知申请人录取结果。
The Educational Testing Service said it hoped to complete an investigation and release valid scores by mid-November, in time for many schools to take them into account in deciding on early admissions. The company did not say how many test-takers were being affected by the suspension of scores. Tom Ewing, a spokesman for the company, said the scores were being withheld based on nations where the students lived, not on where they took the test.
ETS表示，希望能在11月中期完成调查并公布有效成绩，及时为众多高校的提前录取工作提供参考。公司并未说明延期放榜对多少应试者造成了影响。ETS发言人汤姆·尤因(Tom Ewing)说，暂缓公布成绩依据的是考生的居住国，而不是考试地点。
The Institute of International Education estimates that from 2012 to 2013, China accounted for 29 percent of foreign students at American colleges and universities, and South Korea 9 percent. Those were the largest and third-largest contributors to the international student pool in the United States, while India was second, at 12 percent.
据国际教育协会(Institute of International Education)估计，从2012年到2013年，美国高校留学生中有29%来自中国，9%来自韩国。中国和韩国分别是最大和第三大的美国留学生来源地，印度排名第二，占12%。
In recent years, SAT administrators have uncovered several cases of widespread cheating on the exams and taken action. In particular, people at some test preparation schools were accused of acquiring and sharing test questions in advance.
近年来，SAT管理者发现了几起波及甚广的作弊事件，并采取了相应行动。特别值得一提的是，一些备考补习学校的工作人员，曾被指控提前取得并分享考题。
In 2007, administrators voided 900 SAT scores from South Korea. Last year, administrators canceled an exam in South Korea scheduled for May 2013 after accusations of attempts at widespread cheating were reported in the domestic news media. That forced some of the 1,500 South Korean students who had signed up for the exam to scramble to apply to take the exam elsewhere.
2007年，韩国900份SAT成绩被管理者宣告无效。去年，由于该国媒体报道有人企图大规模作弊，管理者取消了原定于2013年5月在韩国举行的一场考试。于是，已报名参加考试的1500名韩国考生中，有一些人不得不手忙脚乱地报名去别处参加考试。
In November 2013, South Korean prosecutors said they had indicted eight “SAT brokers” who had hired students to memorize questions of exams taken abroad or posed as test-takers themselves, using secret cameras to take pictures of questions. Prosecutors also indicted 22 managers and teachers at test preparation companies in South Korea for buying the illegally acquired SAT data.
2013年11月，韩国检方称已起诉了八名“SAT中间人”，他们或是雇佣学生记下在国外考试时的题目，或是自己扮成考试者，用秘密相机拍摄试题。检方还对韩国多家备考补习机构的22名管理人员和教师提起了诉讼，称其购买了非法取得的SAT资料。
In both South Korea and China, academic cheating has been a long-running problem. Professors, officials and celebrities have been exposed for having plagiarized dissertations or even faked degrees.
在韩国和中国，学业造假都是长期存在的问题。被曝论文抄袭甚至学历造假的，有教授、官员和社会名流。
South Korea is known for its hypercompetitive educational system, and several of its high schools are famous for astounding placement rates at Ivy League colleges and universities.
韩国以其竞争极为激烈的教育制度而著称，有几所韩国高中则因为令人震惊的常春藤盟校(Ivy League)录取率而声名远播。
Elite Chinese schools have yet to reach the same placement levels, but test preparation companies and college application consultancies have proliferated in recent years. Middle-class and wealthy Chinese parents are spending large sums of money to try to bolster their children’s chances of getting into a respected college abroad. It is unclear whether any such companies are involved in the current cheating scandal.
中国的精英学校尚未达到同样的录取水平，但近年来，备考补习机构和高校申请咨询公司激增。中产阶级和富裕的中国家长投入大量资金，试图以此增加子女进入国外著名院校的机会。尚不清楚是否有这类公司卷入当前这起作弊丑闻。
Chinese students mostly travel to cities outside mainland China to take the SAT because the test is administered at only a few schools in the country
因为中国只有少数几所学校举办SAT考试，中国学生大多要去大陆以外的其他城市参加考试。
College application consultants in China said on Thursday that the investigation by the Educational Testing Service was causing anxiety among parents as well as students.
中国多位高校申请顾问在周四表示，ETS的调查，引起了家长和学生的焦虑。
Harry Fu, a consultant at a private test preparation school in Beijing, said students applying for early admissions were feeling especially vulnerable because of the suspension of scores.
在北京一所私立备考补习学校担任顾问的付英东表示，因为暂缓公布成绩，申请提前录取的学生觉得很可能会受到影响。
“It could lead to complete failure,” he said. “This is serious. Many students are affected by this, and those in this group of students are mostly excellent. They are the top 15 percent, I would say. The schools to which they apply are the elite top 20 or at least top 40.”
“这可能造成完全的失败，”他说。“这是很严重的影响。造成影响的学生还蛮多的，而且这部分学生大部分都是非常不错的，差不多是前15%的学生。所申请的学校也都是非常不错的 ，一般都是前20，或者至少是前40的学校。”
One consultant said Chinese students with whom her company works generally take the SAT at least two times because they strive to improve their English abilities after the first attempt. Many college applicants take the test in the fall of their senior year because of the time it takes for them to improve their English, she said.
一名顾问表示，她所在的公司服务的中国学生，普遍至少会考两次SAT，因为他们力求在第一次尝试后能提高自己的英语水平。她表示，因为提高英语水平需要时间，许多申请人会在高三那一年的秋天参加考试。
Percy Jiang, a college counselor at Beijing National Day School, a junior high and high school established in 1952, said that since many of the school’s students travel abroad to take the test, “it’s a huge investment and a lot of time spent.”
成立于1952年的北京十一学校既包括初中也包括高中。该校的大学申请辅导老师蒋小波表示，因为该校许多学生都是去国外考试，“需要投入大量的精力和时间”。
“Students and parents feel that it’s unfair to them because other students in other places have had no problems,” he said.
“学生和家长觉得对他们不公平，因为其他地方的其他学生就没有问题，”他说。
“This is a huge challenge,” he added. “It seems that most of students here are O.K., but the parents are more panicked than the students. Here in China, parents pay a lot of attention to the test results. They are not O.K. without the test, because they have no confidence. Usually because most parents rely on the ranking system, they focus on the SAT range. They need to know the numerical score.”
“这是一个大挑战，”他接着说。“看上去这里大部分学生都还好，但家长比学生更慌张。在中国，家长非常关心考试成绩。他们没有成绩不行，因为他们没有信心。因为大部分家长通常很依赖排名，他们很关注SAT的成绩区间，他们需要知道分数。”