When the College Board announced Wednesday that it was overhauling the SAT in ways that would curb the advantages enjoyed by affluent students, it sounded a bit like the people who first designed and popularized the test decades ago.
美国大学委员会(College Board)周三宣布，委员会正在对学术能力评估测试(SAT)进行大幅调整，此举将抑制那些家境富裕的学生的优势。这听上去有点像几十年前最早设计并普及该测试的人的说法。
The similarities end there. Across more than eight decades, the SAT’s backers have held it out as a yardstick, albeit an imperfect one, for academic merit, but notions of what defines merit have changed profoundly.
但相似性到此为止。80多年来，尽管SAT并非十分完善，支持者们仍一直把它当作评判学习优异与否的标准，但是，对于怎样才算优异，人们的观念已经发生了深刻的变化。
The test began in the 1920s supposedly as a gauge of intelligence, but in recent years has moved toward measuring whether high school students have learned what they should. The latest changes give the SAT a hard shove further in that direction, making it more like its competitor, the ACT, in redefining merit as less about cleverness, and more about curriculum mastery.
该测试始于20世纪20年代，用以进行智力评估，但近年来，它已经朝着衡量高中生是否掌握了必要知识的方向发展。最近的调整硬生生地把SAT往这个方向又推进了一步，使它和竞争对手美国大学入学考试(ACT)更为相似：对优异的定义更偏向于对课程的掌握度而不是学生的聪慧度。
David Coleman, president of the College Board, says he wants to democratize higher education — lowering barriers to admission and helping more people go to college. That would not have sat well with the person most responsible for popularizing the SAT, James Bryant Conant, president of Harvard from 1933 to 1953.
美国大学委员会主席大卫·科尔曼(David Coleman)说，他希望高等教育更加大众化——降低录取门槛，并且帮助更多的学生进入大学。这和曾任哈佛大学(Harvard)校长（1933年至1953年）的SAT主要推广负责人詹姆斯·布莱恩特·科南特(James Bryant Conant)的观点背道而驰。
Conant saw the test as a tool for identifying the most talented people outside Harvard’s usual pool of privileged applicants. He disliked previous assessments tied to the teaching of exclusive New England prep schools, said Nicholas Lemann, author of “The Big Test: The Secret History of the American Meritocracy.”
科南特把SAT测试视为从哈佛常规的特权申请者人才库外寻找最有天赋学生的工具。《大考：美国英才教育秘史》(The Big Test: The Secret History of the American Meritocracy)的作者尼古拉斯·莱曼(Nicholas Lemann)说，科南特并不欣赏以前把测评与新英格兰预科贵族学校教学捆绑的做法。
“He specifically didn’t want a test of mastery of the high school curriculum — he wanted a test to tell you how smart the person was,” Mr. Lemann said. “He was haunted by the idea of a brilliant student ending up walking behind a mule and a plow because nobody knew how to find him.”
“他尤其不想要一个测试高中课程掌握度的考试，而要一项能够告诉你学生有多聪明的考试，”莱曼说，“如果是因为没有办法识别人才，而让才华横溢的学生最终只能带着骡子和犁去耕田，这是他无法接受的。”
But the goal was not democratic. Conant’s aim was to identify a new elite based on brains rather than heredity, not to expand access to higher education.
但他的目标并不是让考试大众化。科南特的目标是根据大脑而非祖业寻找新精英，目的不是放宽高等教育的门槛。
In tune with the times, Mr. Coleman does want to improve access, in part by making a more level playing field. To counter test preparation courses taken by more affluent students, he announced a partnership with the online Khan Academy to make preparation videos available free. And he will make it easier for low-income students to take the test and apply to colleges without charge.
顺应时代的诉求，科尔曼的确想要提高高等教育的可获得性，途径之一是创造更加公平的环境。为了应对大多富裕家庭学生才上得起考试辅导课程的情况，他宣布与在线可汗学院(Khan Academy)展开合作，制作免费辅导视频。并且他将采取措施，让低收入家庭的学生更方便地进行免费考试与大学申请。
It has been understood for decades that people who grow up in families with wealth, education, access to good schools or all three have a leg up in testing, a fact that has often been used to attack claims about innate ability or merit. That will remain true, but supporters hope that planned changes in the test will reduce those advantages by tying the SAT more closely to the material that any college-bound senior should have learned in a common core curriculum across the nation.
几十年来，人们都相信，在富裕、受教育程度高或有进入好学校渠道（或者三种条件都具备）的家庭里成长的学生在考试方面有优势，这一事实也经常被用来反驳学校对学生天生才能和优秀的要求。这一点仍正确，但支持者们希望，提议的调整措施能够加强SAT与全美所有想上大学的高中毕业班学生在通用核心课程上所学内容的联系，从而削弱那些家境优越者的优势。
“It elevates the importance of hard work on a day-to-day basis,” said William R. Fitzsimmons, the longtime dean of admissions at Harvard.
“这提升了日常学习中不断努力的重要性，”长期担任哈佛大学招生办公室主任的威廉·菲茨西蒙斯(William R. Fitzsimmons)说。
But Charles Murray, the libertarian author and American Enterprise Institute scholar, disagreed. He predicted that the changes “will not make any difference in the correlations between income and SAT scores,” in part because the most important academic advantage many wealthy families have is intelligence, not wealth.
但自由主义作家和美国企业研究院(American Enterprise Institute)学者查尔斯·默里(Charles Murray)并不赞同这一观点。他预测这些调整“不会对收入与SAT分数的相关性带来任何改变，”部分原因是因为许多家境富裕的学生所拥有的最重要的学术优势是智力，而非财富。
Still, he agreed that “if they move toward something more like an achievement test, that’s good.” In fact, he advocates eliminating the SAT in favor of the SAT II tests, each based in a specific academic subject.
不过，他也同意“如果朝着更像是一场成绩测验的方向发展，这是件好事。”实际上，他主张取消SAT考试，支持考察单个科目表现的SAT II测试。
A team commissioned by the National Association for College Admission Counseling, and led by Mr. Fitzsimmons, reached similar conclusions. It reported in 2008 that curriculum-based tests send a message that working hard in high school, and not professional coaching, “is the way to do well on admission tests and succeed in a rigorous college curriculum,” and that more colleges should drop SAT and ACT requirements.
一个受全美大学招生咨询委员会(National Association for College Admission Counseling)委任并由菲茨西蒙斯牵头的研究团队得出了类似的结论。它在2008年的报告中称，基于课程内容的测试传达出一个信息：在高中努力学习，而不是靠专业考试辅导，“才是通过入学考试并在高强度的大学课程中胜出的办法”，并且更多的大学应当取消对SAT和ACT成绩的要求。
Admissions officers, even at the most competitive colleges, say that they care more about high school transcripts than standardized test scores, and studies show that transcripts are better predictors of college performance. Some, like Mr. Fitzsimmons, say that as a result, they never viewed the SAT as more than a blunt instrument.
招生负责人都说，比起标准化考试的分数，他们更看重学生在高中时期的平时成绩，并且研究表明各科成绩单对学生大学学业表现的预测更准确。即使那些来自顶尖大学的招生负责人也持这样的观点。因此，包括菲茨西蒙斯先生在内的一些学者说，他们只把SAT当作一个不怎么精准的工具。
But others insist that test scores can be important. And some fear that the new format could make it harder for the truly brilliant to stand out from the merely very bright.
但其他人坚持认为标准化考试成绩很重要。一些人担心，新的考试形式可能会使真正的天才很难从优等生中脱颖而出。
“My first thought was it’s going to make it harder to distinguish anything based on this piece of data,” said Maria Laskaris, the dean of admissions at Dartmouth. “I’ll need to see a little more detail from the College Board to really understand how this will all play itself out.”
 “根据这份数据，我的第一想法是，这将使学生的甄别变得更困难，”达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth)招生办主任玛丽亚·拉斯凯瑞斯(Maria Laskaris)说。“我需要看到大学委员会提供更多调整细节，才能真正理解相关调整会产生什么样的影响。”
With grade inflation, enormous variation in high school rigor and a surplus of excellent applicants, she said, a test like the ACT or SAT “is, for the moment, the only thing that is standard across all our applicants.”
由于分数的贬值、高中严格程度的差异巨大以及优秀申请者的过剩，她说，像ACT或SAT这样的测试“在当下，是唯一一个可以用于所有申请者的标准。”