Saying its college admission exams do not focus enough on the important academic skills, the College Board announced on Wednesday a fundamental rethinking of the SAT, ending the longstanding penalty for guessing wrong, cutting obscure vocabulary words and making the essay optional.
美国大学理事会(College Board)于周三宣布了对SAT（学术能力评估测试）的根本性反思结果，由此终结了长期以来对猜错答案者的惩罚，削减了语义模糊的词汇，并把写作变成了考试可选项。理事会给出的理由是，大学入学考试没有充分侧重于考察重要的学术能力。
The president of the College Board, David Coleman, criticized his own test, the SAT, and its main rival, the ACT, saying that both had “become disconnected from the work of our high schools.”
理事会会长戴维·科尔曼(David Coleman)指责了他们自己的考试SAT及其主要对手ACT(American College Testing，即美国大学入学考试)，称这两项考试都“和美国高中的教学工作脱节”。
In addition, Mr. Coleman announced programs to help low-income students, who will now be given fee waivers allowing them to apply to four colleges at no charge. And even before the new exam is introduced, in the spring of 2016, the College Board, in partnership with Khan Academy, will offer free online practice problems and instructional videos showing how to solve them.
此外，科尔曼宣布了帮助低收入学生的计划，这些学生今后可以免交申请费，由此可以免费申请四所大学。新考试将在2016年春季推出，在此之前，理事会将和可汗学院(Khan Academy)合作，提供免费的网上习题和关于如何解题的教学视频。
The changes are extensive: The SAT’s rarefied vocabulary challenges will be replaced by words that are common in college courses, like “empirical” and “synthesis.” The math questions, now scattered across many topics, will focus more narrowly on linear equations, functions and proportional thinking. The use of a calculator will no longer be allowed on some of the math sections.
此次改革的涉及面相当广泛：SAT高高在上的词汇挑战将被大学课程中的常见词汇所取代，比如empirical（经验主义的）和synthesis（合成）。散布在许多科目中的数学考题将进一步缩窄范围，侧重考察线性方程、函数和比例思维。数学考试的部分题目将不再允许使用计算器。
The new exam will be available on paper and computer, and the scoring will revert to the old 1,600-point scale — from 2,400 — with top scores of 800 on math and 800 on what will now be called “evidence-based reading and writing.” The optional essay, which strong writers may choose to do, will have a separate score.
新考试可以在纸面上和计算机上进行，分数将从2400分制回归以前的1600分制，其中数学占800分，其余800分来自更名为“循证阅读和写作”的考试科目。可选写作将另行计分，写作能力强的考生可以选择此项。
Once the pre-eminent college admissions exam, the SAT has lost ground to the ACT, which is based more directly on high school curriculums and is now taken by a slightly higher number of students. Last year, 1.8 million students took the ACT and 1.7 million the SAT.
作为曾经声名赫赫的大学入学考试，SAT已经在ACT面前丧失了优势，后者更直接地扎根于高中课程，目前吸引的考生人数比SAT略多。去年有180万考生选择了ACT，170万选择了SAT。
The new SAT will not quell all criticism of standardized tests. Critics have long pointed out — and Mr. Coleman admits — that high school grades are a better predictor of college success than standardized test scores. More colleges have in recent years become “test optional,” allowing students to forgo the exams and submit their grades, transcripts and perhaps a graded paper.
新SAT不可能平息对标准化考试的所有指责。批评者早已指出，高中成绩是比标准化考试分数更精准的大学成就预测器，科尔曼也承认这一点。近些年，更多的大学采取了“考试可选”模式，允许学生们放弃考试，递交他们的成绩评分、成绩单或者经过评分的文章。
For many students, Mr. Coleman said, the tests are mysterious and “filled with unproductive anxiety.” And, he acknowledged, they inspire little respect from classroom teachers: only 20 percent, he said, see the college-admission tests as a fair measure of the work their students have done.
科尔曼说，对许多学生而言，考试神秘莫测，“充斥着徒劳无获的焦虑感”。他承认，课堂教师对考试的敬意也是微乎其微。他说，只有20%的教师认为，大学入学考试是衡量学生学业成就的公平指标。
Mr. Coleman came to the College Board in 2012, from a job as an architect of the Common Core curriculum standards, which set out the content that students must master at each level and are now making their way into school.
科尔曼于2012年进入美国大学理事会，此前是共同核心(Common Core)课程标准的设计者之一，该标准列出了学生在每一年级必须掌握的内容，目前正在得到学校的采纳。
He announced plans to revise the SAT a year ago and almost from the start expressed dissatisfaction with the essay that was added in 2005. He said he also wanted to make the test reflect more closely what students did in high school and, perhaps most important, rein in the intense coaching and tutoring on how to take the test that often gave affluent students an advantage.
一年前，科尔曼宣布了修改SAT的计划，几乎从一开始，他就对2005年加入SAT的写作测试表示了不满。他说，他还想让SAT考试更真切地反映学生的高中学习情况，也许最重要的是，遏制住以应试为目的的密集辅导和补习，它们往往会让富裕的学生占据优势。
“It is time for the College Board to say in a clearer voice that the culture and practice of costly test preparation that has arisen around admissions exams drives the perception of inequality and injustice in our country,” Mr. Coleman said Wednesday. “It may not be our fault, but it is our problem.”
科尔曼周三表示，“是时候了，大学理事会应该更明确地表示，因入学考试而来的代价高昂的备考行为和风气促使我国民众产生了不平等和不公正的感觉。这也许不是我们的错，但却是我们需要面对的问题。”
While test-preparation companies said the SAT was moving in the right direction, with more openness and more free online test preparation, the changes were unlikely to diminish the demand for their services. “People will always want an edge,” said Seppy Basili, a vice president of Kaplan Test Prep. “And test changes always spur demand.”
备考公司表示，SAT正在朝正确的方向迈进，变得更加开放，免费的网络备考服务也更多，即便如此，前述变革依然不太可能削弱考生对备考公司提供的服务的需求。备考公司Kaplan Test Prep的副总裁塞比·巴西利(Seppy Basili)说，“人们总想占据优势。考试改革总是会激发需求。”
The suggested changes were well received among many educators, but Mr. Coleman’s comments about the ACT drew harsh words from an executive of that company.
许多教育工作者都非常欢迎理事会提出的变革，不过，科尔曼对ACT的评论受到了该公司一名高管的严厉指责。
“David Coleman is not a spokesman for the ACT, and I acknowledge his political gamesmanship but I don’t appreciate it,” Jon Erickson, president of ACT’s education division, said. “ It seems like they’re mostly following what we’ve always done.”
ACT教育部总裁乔恩·埃里克森(Jon Erickson)表示，“戴维·科尔曼并不是ACT的发言人，我注意到了他的政治小把戏，可是我并不欣赏。看起来，他们基本上是在亦步亦趋地追随我们的一贯做法。”
Philip Ballinger, the director of undergraduate admissions at the University of Washington, said he admired Mr. Coleman’s heartfelt “damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead” approach to improving the SAT and appreciated the effort to tame the test-prep industry.
华盛顿大学(University of Washington)本科生招生主任菲利普·巴林杰(Philip Ballinger)表示，他对科尔曼为改善SAT考试而拿出的“去他的鱼雷，全速前进”式的真诚态度表示赞赏，也欣赏他抑制备考行业的举措。
“It’s absurd, and that’s the nicest thing I can call it, how much test prep has grown and how guilt-ridden parents have become about trying to prepare their kids for the test,” Mr. Ballinger said. “If this helps test prep become learning, not gaming, well, shoot, that’s great. “
“备考机构发展如此蓬勃，家长们为了帮孩子备考而感到如此内疚，这种情况非常荒谬，这是我能用的最好听的字眼，”巴林杰说。“如果这有助于考前辅导成为一个学习过程，而不是赌博，那就太好了。”
Some changes will make the new SAT more like the ACT, which for the last two years has outpaced the SAT in test takers. Thirteen states administer the ACT to all public high school juniors, and three more are planning to do so. The ACT has no guessing penalty, and its essay is optional. It also includes a science section, and while the SAT is not adding one, the redesigned reading test will include a science passage.
其中一些改变将使新SAT考试更像ACT，在过去两年中，参加ACT考试的人数超过了SAT。有13个州要求所有公立高中三年级学生参加ACT考试，另外三个州也准备采取同样举措。在ACT考试中，猜错答案不倒扣分，而且写作是选考科目。ACT还有科学部分，而SAT不打算添加这一部分，改革后的阅读部分会有一篇科学文章。
But beyond the particulars, Mr. Coleman emphasized that the three-hour exam — three hours and 50 minutes with the essay — had been redesigned with an eye toward reinforcing the skills and evidence-based thinking that students should be learning in high school, and moving away from a need for test-taking tricks and strategies. Sometimes, students will be asked not just to select the right answer but to justify it by choosing the quotation from a text that provides the best supporting evidence for their answer.
不过，除了这些细节以外，科尔曼还强调，对长达三个小时的考试（加上写作共有3小时50分钟）的改革着眼于加强对学生在高中应该掌握的技能和循证思维的考察，不再要求学生掌握考试技巧和策略。有时候，题目不仅要求学生选出正确答案，还要求学生从文章中选出最具证明效力的引语，以此证明答案的合理性。