The Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday accused the former chief executive and chairman of an American-listed Chinese education company of stealing $41 million from investors.
周四，美国证券交易委员会（Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC）对一家在美国上市的中国教育公司的前首席执行官兼董事长提出指控，称他盗用了投资者4100万美元（约合2.5亿元人民币）的资金。
The ChinaCast Education Corporation, a company that provided postsecondary education services in China, began operating in the United States in December 2006 and later listed on the Nasdaq. It was a time when American investors were hungry to get a piece of China’s growth by investing in a flurry of Chinese companies listing on United States exchanges.
中国双威教育集团是一家提供高等教育服务的中国公司，自2006年12月开始在美国经营业务，之后在纳斯达克(Nasdaq)上市。当时有很多中国公司在美国上市，美国的投资者急于对这些公司进行投资，以便从中国的经济发展中获利。
But in recent years, such companies have been the target of growing scrutiny as investors have lost billions of dollars. According to the latest complaint filed in federal court in Manhattan, ChinaCast’s former chairman and chief executive, Chan Tze Ngon, illegally transferred money from the company. The indictment also accuses Jiang Xiangyuan, a former president of ChinaCast’s China operations, of selling shares based on insider information.
但最近几年，由于投资者损失了数十亿美元，这些公司成为了日益严格的审查行动的目标。根据SEC向曼哈顿联邦法庭提出的前述最新诉讼，双威集团前董事长兼首席执行官陈子昂涉嫌非法转移公司资金。SEC还指控前双威集团中国业务总裁江祥源基于内部消息出售股票。
Both men live in China, and it is unclear how they will answer the accusations. The S.E.C. has sued both men in civil court and is seeking disgorgement of ill-gotten gains and penalties.
两人都居住在中国，目前尚不清楚他们将如何回应这些指控。SEC在民事法庭起诉两人，寻求追缴非法获得的钱财，并对其处以罚金。
It is the latest in a story that spans thousands of miles with a cast of hired muscle men, stolen corporate bank account details, and a bitter boardroom battle in which Mr. Chan was eventually ousted.
这是一个绵延数千英里的故事的最新进展，故事当中，一群受雇的暴徒盗取了公司银行账户详情，而在一场激烈的董事会斗争中，陈子昂最终出局。
The company at one point was worth more than $200 million before any allegations of fraud were made. After Mr. Chan and Mr. Jiang left the company, it was worth just $5 million, the S.E.C. said.
在受到欺诈指控之前，该公司的市值一度超过了两亿美元。SEC称，陈子昂和江洋源离开公司后，该公司的市值仅为500万美元。
“The massive fraud perpetrated by Chan destroyed hundreds of millions of dollars in market value, and Jiang’s brazen insider trading allowed him to profit by dumping his own shares on the market before the fraud was exposed,” said Andrew M. Calamari, head of the agency’s New York office.
SEC纽约地区办公室主任安德鲁·卡拉马里(Andrew M. Calamari)说，“陈子昂实施的大规模骗局致使该公司的市值减少了数亿美元，江洋源则肆无忌惮地进行内幕交易，以便在骗局曝光前通过抛售自己持有的股票而获利。”
The company’s descent began late in 2011, when ChinaCast, under Mr. Chan’s leadership, accused Ned L. Sherwood, a director and one of the company’s biggest shareholders, of insider trading.
双威集团从2011年末开始走下坡路，当时，由陈子昂领导的双威集团指控公司董事及最大股东之一内德·L·舍伍德(Ned L. Sherwood)进行内幕交易。
Mr. Sherwood denied the claims and mounted his own proxy campaign to bring three new directors to the board. He filed a complaint to a Delaware court, asserting that an “unidentified attendee” had taken over a critical board meeting, disqualifying Mr. Sherwood and his nominees. Eventually Mr. Sherwood was successful in bringing two new members onto the board and Mr. Chan was ousted in March 2012.
舍伍德否认了这些指控，并展开了自己的代理斗争，打算为董事会增加三名成员。他向特拉华州法院申诉称，一次重要董事会议被一个“身份不明的列席者“掌控，剥夺了舍伍德和他提名的人的资格。最后，舍伍德成功使两名新成员加入董事会，陈子昂则于2012年3月被迫退出。
What came after confounded investors. In April 2012, a dozen men claiming to be associated with Mr. Chan stormed the company’s Shanghai office and violently removed computers from the company’s finance department, according to a regulatory filing in the United States. The company’s chops — official seals necessary to obtain bank account records in China — also disappeared, making it difficult for new management to go through the financial books.
之后发生的事情让投资者颇为不解。美国的一份监管备案文件称，2012年4月，十几名自称与陈子昂有关系的男子突然进入公司的上海办公室，粗暴地挪走了公司财务部的电脑。公司的印章——获取在中国的银行账户记录所必需的公章——也不见了，因此，新的管理层很难对公司的财务记录进行全面审核。
The S.E.C.’s complaint on Thursday included accusations of a long list of misdeeds, potentially shining some light on the company’s real business since its debut on the Nasdaq in 2007.
证交会周四的指控涉及一长串不当行为，可能会让我们对公司自2007年在纳斯达克上市后的真正业务有所了解。
“Chan orchestrated the systematic looting of ChinaCast,” said Sanjay Wadhwa, a director for enforcement in the S.E.C.’s New York office, “and hid his misconduct by repeatedly lying to investors about the company’s assets until he lost control of the board and was terminated.”
“陈子昂一手安排了对双威财产的系统性掠夺，”美国证交会纽约办公室的执行负责人桑贾伊·瓦德瓦(Sanjay Wadhwa)说，“在失去对董事会的控制并结束任期之前，他还多次在公司资产方面欺骗投资者，以此掩盖自己的违规行为。”
According to the complaint, Mr. Chan stole $41 million from a total of $43.8 million that ChinaCast had raised from investors. He is accused of then transferring the money into ChinaCast Technology, a subsidiary that Mr. Chan falsely claimed was controlled by ChinaCast. Instead, Mr. Chan personally owned a 50 percent stake, while ChinaCast had a 49.5 percent stake.
控诉书称，双威总共从投资者手里筹得了4380万美元，陈子昂从中盗用了4100万美元，然后把这笔资金转移到了双威科技公司(ChinaCast Technology)。陈子昂谎称这个子公司由双威集团控制，实际情况却是，陈子昂个人持有该公司50%的股份，而双威仅持有49.5%。
Mr. Chan also pledged $30.4 million of the company’s cash deposits to secure debts for unrelated entities, failing to notify shareholders or the board. During this time he signed reports that falsely claimed the company’s cash and equivalents were unburdened. “In hindsight, this certainly shows why Mr. Chan may have been so anxious to get rid of our client, Ned Sherwood,” said Barry R. Goldsmith, a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher.
陈子昂还挪用了公司3040万美元的现金存款来为不相关的公司作债务抵押，而且既没有通知股东，也没有通知董事会。在此期间，他还签署了一些谎称公司现金及现金等价物状况良好的报告。吉布森、邓恩和克拉彻律师事务所(Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher)的合伙人巴里·R·戈德史密斯(Barry R. Goldsmith)说，“回头想想，这显然可以说明，陈子昂为什么如此急于赶走我们的客户内德·舍伍德。”
The company was forced to delist from the Nasdaq after it failed to file its 2011 annual report.
由于没有提交2011年的年报，双威被迫从纳斯达克撤牌。
Mr. Chan and Mr. Jiang were not immediately available for comment.
记者未能及时联系到陈子昂和江祥源置评。