With its lens tool, Snapchat allows some 150 million daily users to alter reality and play with identity in ways that border on the absurd.
通过滤镜工具，Snapchat的约1.5亿日常用户可以更改现实、变换身份，达到了近乎荒谬的地步。
You can turn yourself into a pineapple, a dog or a character befitting a Roy Lichtenstein painting.
你可以把自己变成菠萝、狗或罗伊·利希滕斯坦(Roy Lichtenstein)绘画风格的人物。
The lenses are blunt, feature-warping tools that generate more than 30 million enhanced selfies a day. Any missteps quickly enter the public record.
这些滤镜是能直接改变特征的工具，每天制造出3000多万张经过处理的自拍。任何闪失都很快进入公众记录。
Snapchat lenses have drawn criticism in the past with accusations that the app was promoting blackface or encouraging whitened skin tones as an ideal of beauty.
Snapchat的滤镜过去就遭到过批评。有人指责这款应用程序推出黑色面孔，或鼓励把美白过的肤色作为美的标准。
So when it pushed a lens to some users this week that gave them slanted eyes, distorted teeth and puffy cheeks, some critics called it a racist caricature of Asian people — “yellowface.” And they wondered if these repeated controversies pointed to a larger problem that the company has with diversity.
本周，它向一些用户推送了一款滤镜，能让他们拥有斜眼、歪牙和高颧骨，一些批评者称之为描绘亚洲人“黄面孔”的种族主义讽刺漫画。他们想知道，此类争议反复出现，是否反映出该公司存在着一个更大的问题——多样化问题。
The news and the outrage went wide on Wednesday, with reports by The Verge and Motherboard, a day after Snapchat said it had dismantled the feature.
周三，随着“临界点”网站(The Verge)和“主板”网站(Motherboard)的报道，这则新闻传播开来，人们的愤怒也开始蔓延。在此前一天，Snapchat称已撤销这一功能。
The company offered an explanation: The lens was meant as homage to anime characters, not as a caricature of Asian people.
该公司给出的解释是：这款滤镜是为了向日本动漫人物致敬，而不是为了讽刺亚洲人。
But for observers who have experienced racism, the lens reminded them of hurtful stereotypes in action. Others roundly rejected the anime comparison.
但是对于经历过种族歧视、关注该事件的人来说，这款滤镜让他们想起了伤人的刻板印象，它们如今依然存在。还有人强烈反对将这款滤镜与日本动漫人物相提并论。
In an email, Grace Sparapani, a Korean American art student whose tweet about the photos was widely shared, said that the lens was “hurtful and uncomfortable to say the least.”
韩裔美国艺术专业学生格蕾丝·斯帕拉帕尼(Grace Sparapani)在Twitter上发布的照片被大量转发。她在接受邮件采访时说，这款滤镜“至少是伤害感情的，让人觉得不舒服”。
She added that “it’s hard to argue with the side by side comparison of the very gross Asian caricature and the filter’s effects. It shows that the filter isn’t just yellowface, but yellowface taken to its derogatory extreme.”
她补充说，“把非常粗鲁的美国讽刺漫画和这款滤镜的效果放在一起比较，结果是无可辩驳的。它表明，这款滤镜展示的不只是黄色面孔，而且是被极端贬低的黄色面孔。”
Snapchat is not the only company to cross these cultural tripwires. American culture seems involved in an endless struggle over diversity and inclusion, from corporate boardrooms to Hollywood and the devices we all carry in our hands.
Snapchat不是唯一一家触碰到文化红线的公司。关于多样性和包容性的斗争，似乎一直存在于美国文化之中，从公司董事会到好莱坞，再到我们手上的各种电子设备。
And Snapchat’s huge audience of younger people — who are more racially diverse than their older counterparts — might mean that they are even more likely to expect sensitivity.
而且，Snapchat庞大的年轻用户，比年长用户在种族上更多样化，所以他们可能对此更加敏感。
When one of Snapchat’s lenses creates an image that is insulting to a user, 25-year-old Katie Zhu said in an interview on Thursday, “it’s much harder for these types of things to go unnoticed like they did before.”
周四，25岁的凯蒂·朱(Katie Zhu)在接受采访时说，当一款Snapchat滤镜创造出来的形象，让用户觉得受到了侮辱时，“要想忽视这种事情，可比从前要难得多”。
On Thursday, Ms. Zhu, a product manager and engineer who works for Medium, decided to delete her Snapchat account and encouraged others to do the same.
朱是Medium网站的产品经理和工程师。周四，她决定注销自己的Snapchat账户，并鼓励其他人也这么做。
In an essay for Medium and in a telephone interview, she said she believed that the race-related controversies reflected a lack of diversity in hiring practices at Snapchat.
在给Medium写的一篇文章中，以及在电话采访中，她说，她认为这些与种族相关的争议，反映出Snapchat在招聘方面缺乏多样性。
Ms. Zhu criticized the company’s mostly white, all-male leadership and ended her essay with a hashtag: #DeleteSnapchat.
朱批评该公司的领导层大多是白人男性，并在文章末尾加上了#删除Snapchat(#DeleteSnapchat)的标签。
“It’s either that they had no diverse representation of people of color on their staff to the point where they’re able to make decisions like this,” Ms. Zhu, who is Chinese-American, said, “or they do have some people of color who are working there, but they’re not on positions where they feel safe or comfortable to speak up.”
“可能是他们的员工中没有各色人种的代表，所以才会做出这样的决定，”朱说。她是华裔美国人。“或者，他们那里也有一些其他肤色的员工，但是那些人还没有达到能够安全或放心地表达自己心声的地位。”
Other observers share her view, a complaint that Snapchat has left largely unanswered. The company does not release figures about diversity on its staff, noting its status as a private company.
其他关注该事件的人和她持同样的观点。Snapchat对这一抱怨基本上没有回应。该公司没有公布关于员工多样性的数据，称这是因为它是一家私人企业。
On Thursday, Snapchat declined to discuss the racial backgrounds of its staff, but according to a spokesman, the company recently hired a recruiter to focus on underrepresented populations and on driving inclusion efforts internally.
周四，Snapchat拒绝讨论员工的种族背景，但是据一位发言人称，该公司前不久雇佣了一名招聘人员，专注于未被充分代表的种族，致力于增加内部包容性。
For her part, Ms. Zhu said she would keep her Snapchat account closed, adding, “I wonder if they actually need more users like us to be able to say that this is not O.K.”
朱则表示她不会重启自己的Snapchat账户，并补充说：“我想知道，他们是否真的需要更多像我们这样的用户，来告诉他们这样不好。”