Should a swimmer’s arms serve as paddles or propellers? That question, abstruse as it might seem, underlies a long-running controversy in swimming about the best, most efficient technique for the freestyle and the backstroke. It also prompted a new study from a group of scientists at Johns Hopkins University that, in seemingly answering the question, is likely to provoke even more debate.
游泳时胳膊究竟是起到船桨还是螺旋桨的作用？这个听起来颇为深奥的问题，其实就是说在游自由泳和仰泳的时候，究竟怎样才算是最好、最高效的游法，多年来这个问题在游泳界也争论不休。来自约翰霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)的一群科学家的研究结果，表面看来是回答了这个问题，但实际上只怕会引发更多的争论。
The concern about how best to position and move the arm during the freestyle stroke (also known as the front crawl) and its inverse, the backstroke, first gained prominence back in the 1960s, when James E. Counsilman, the famed Indiana University men’s swimming coach known as Doc, decided to apply scientific principles of propulsion and fluid dynamics to swim techniques.
在游自由泳（也叫爬泳）及与之对应的仰泳时，究竟该采取什么姿势、该如何划动胳膊，最早引起关注是在上世纪六十年代，当时著名的印第安那大学男子游泳队教练、人称“大夫”的詹姆斯·康西尔曼(James E. Counsilman)，决定把推进原理和流体动力学运用到游泳技巧中。
The physics of swimming are simple enough. To move through the water, you must generate thrust. To do so, you can use dragging or lifting forces. Drag is created by, unsurprisingly, dragging back against the water and, in the process, pushing an object, like the swimmer’s body, forward.
游泳涉及的物理原理非常简单。要想在水中移动，你得产生推力。要做到这一点，你得借助曳力或者升力。通过划水产生曳力，在这个过程中推动物体——游泳者的身体——前移，这不难理解。
Lift, on the other hand, is created mainly by the flow of fluid around an object moving at an angle through the water. The fluid flows faster around the more curved side of the object, lifting and thrusting it forward. Ship propellers work on this principle.
另一方面，升力主要是物体以某个特定角度在水中游动时，四周液体的流动而产生的。物体表面越具流线型，水流速度会越快，从而抬起物体，并推动它向前。螺旋桨就是这个原理。
But until Doc Counsilman weighed in, it was widely believed that swimming, for humans, involved primarily drag forces. You pulled against the water, like someone paddling a canoe, your arm remaining straight, palm perpendicular to the body. This stroke technique is often called a “deep catch” style of swimming, since you pull long and deep against the water.
在康西尔曼开始关注这个问题之前，大家普遍认为，人类游泳主要靠的是曳力。你的胳膊保持伸直的状态，手掌与身体垂直抱水，这就跟划独木舟是一个道理。因为胳膊需要笔直深入水中抓水送水，这种游法常常被称为直臂划水。
Coach Counsilman was convinced, however, that lift could and should provide a majority of the propulsion for human swimmers, and that the way to generate lift was to scull, or move the stroking arm through an S-curve underwater.
但康西尔曼教练相信，升力同样可以、也应该为人类游泳者提供主要的推进力，而产生升力的方法就是让胳膊在水下沿S形曲线划动。
In his revised version of the freestyle, the arm, bent as it breaks the surface, pulls back against the water at first, as in a paddling stroke. But then the arm starts turning sideways in a gentle curve as it begins to trace an S shape, the thumb heading up as the palm turns parallel to the body. The arm reverses that motion to traverse a full S shape before emerging from the water.
经他改进的自由泳，胳膊弯曲入水，开始时向后抱水，就像划桨的动作。之后，胳膊开始以平缓曲线向外开始划出S形，手掌朝向身体时大拇指向上。接着胳膊向后，以划出一个完整的S形，然后伸出水面。
Fluids would flow swiftly around the hand as it sliced through the water and, Coach Counsilman contended, create more lift than the deep-catch stroke.
康西尔曼教练声称，手在水里划动的时候，水流会在手的周围迅速流动，这比直臂划水能带来更大的升力。
Coach Counsilman instituted this new stroke technique for his swimmers, first at Indiana University and later as head coach of the United States Olympic team. His swimmers, who included Mark Spitz, won more than 20 Olympic medals and 23 Big Ten Conference titles.
康西尔曼教练开始在他的学员身上运用这种新的游泳技巧，一开始是在印第安那大学，之后在他执教美国奥运队的时候，又运用在国家队队员身上。他的弟子，包括马克·施皮茨(Mark Spitz)在内，共赢得了20多枚奥运奖牌，23次十大联盟冠军。
In the years since, sculling during the freestyle stroke and backstroke became commonplace among elite and recreational swimmers.
从那之后的自由泳和仰泳，无论是职业选手还是业余选手都普遍开始使用S形划水。
But many coaches continued to question whether lift, generated by sculling, was really the fastest, most efficient way for swimmers to reach the wall.
不过，许多教练还是不相信，通过S形划水所产生的升力，真的是最快、效率最高的游泳方式。
So the Johns Hopkins scientists, who before the 2008 Summer Olympics had studied how best to perform the butterfly stroke (their conclusion: have extremely flexible ankles and, if possible, big feet), decided now to put the two strokes to the test in a series of complex computer simulations.
鉴于此，约翰霍普金斯大学的科学家们，决定通过一系列复杂的电脑模拟来确定这两种划水方法中究竟哪种更胜一筹；在2008年夏季奥运会之前，他们还曾经研究过最佳的蝶泳方式（他们的结论是：踝关节一定要极其柔软，而且可能的话，脚一定要大）。
They began by creating a virtual animated arm, using laser scans and motion-capture videos from Olympic-caliber swimmers. “We decided to separate the arm from the rest of the body so the we could study, in isolation, the underwater flow dynamics” around a swimmer’s arm during the freestyle stroke or backstroke, says Rajat Mittal, a professor of mechanical engineering at Johns Hopkins and a devoted recreational swimmer, who oversaw the study.
一开始，他们把激光扫描和动作捕捉技术运用到奥运游泳选手的录像上，创造出一只虚拟的动画手臂。该研究项目的主管、约翰霍普金斯大学机械工程学教授、业余酷爱游泳的拉加特·米塔尔(Rajat Mittal)表示，为了便于针对自由泳或者仰泳时游泳者胳膊四周的“水下流动力学进行研究”，“我们决定把手臂与身体其他部位分割开来。”
They then gathered underwater videos of elite swimmers, supplied by USA Swimming, which they categorized as displaying either a sculling or a deep-catch stroke.
接下来，他们采集了美国游泳协会提供的优秀游泳运动员的水下录像，将其分为S形划水和直臂划水两大类。
The scientists ran their animated arm through multiple simulations of each stroke, requiring thousands of hours of computer time.
科学家们耗费数千小时的电脑运算时间，用那只虚拟胳膊反复模拟两种划水方式。
The result was “a bit of a surprise,” Dr. Mittal says. It turned out that lift was, as Doc Counsilman had maintained, important for efficient, and therefore fast, stroking. In all of the scientists’ simulations, lift provided a majority of the propulsive force.
米塔尔博士说，结果“让人有点吃惊”。事实表明康西尔曼教练的判断是对的，要想游得又快又好，升力非常重要。在这些科学家所有的模拟实验中，升力是主要的推进力来源。
But sculling did not supply much lift. In fact, it impeded both lift and drag. “Our shoulders won’t twist all the way around,” Dr. Mittal says, meaning our arms won’t lever about as ship propellers do, and the amount of lift we can create by sculling is small.
但S形划水并不能提供多少升力。事实上，它并不利于升力和曳力的产生。米塔尔博士说，“我们的肩膀无法旋转一整圈，”这也就意味着我们的胳膊不可能像螺旋桨那样旋转，所以我们通过S形划水所能产生的升力是非常小的。
The better choice for human propulsion, he says, was the paddlelike deep-catch stroke, which actually produced more lift than sculling, along with a hefty dose of drag.
他说，人类在游泳的时候要想获得推进力，更好的办法是直臂划水，这种方式可以比S形划水产生更大的升力，以及可观的曳力。
“All things being equal, our data show that the deep-catch stroke is far more effective,” Dr. Mittal says.
“在所有条件都相同的情况下，我们的研究数据表明，直臂划水要有效率得多，”米塔尔博士表示。
Of course, races are not won or lost by disembodied arms, and as Dr. Mittal points out, “all things are not equal, most of the time.” An effective deep-catch stroke requires considerable shoulder strength, which many swimmers lack, making a sculling-based stroke easier for them, at least until they develop robustly muscled shoulders.
当然，比赛的胜负靠得可不是一只被肢解下来的手臂，正如米塔尔博士所指出的，“在大多数时候，不可能所有前提条件都一样。”有效的直臂划水需要客观的肩部力量，而这是许多游泳者所不具备的，对于他们来说，至少在他们练出肌肉强健的肩膀之前，S形划水更简单。
“How you roll your body in the water with each stroke will also matter,” he says, as will overall fitness. “Sculling is less fatiguing,” so less-fit swimmers may opt to scull, he says.
他还说，“随着每次划水，你的身体在水中如何摆动，也是很重要的因素，”同样重要的还有整体的身体状况。“S形划水没那么累，”他表示，所以对于那些身体素质一般的游泳者来说，他们或许应该选择S形划水。
But for fit, powerful swimmers, or those who aspire to become such, “my advice would be to use the deep-catch stroke,” he says.
但如果游泳者有着理想而强健的体魄，或者对于那些希望自己身体能够强健起来的游泳者来说，他说“我的建议就是使用直臂划水”。
“Anecdotally, we’ve been told that more and more coaches are moving to the deep-catch,” he continues, and his group’s findings suggest that for most swimmers, whether elite or recreational, “that is the way to go.”
他接着说，“有意思的是，我们听说越来越多的教练开始采用直臂划水了。”从他研究团队的研究结果表明，对于绝大多数游泳者来说——不管专业与否——“直臂划水才是正确的选择。