WASHINGTON — An ambitious 12-nation trade accord pushed by President Barack Obama would allow foreign corporations to sue the U.S. government for actions that undermine their investment “expectations” and hurt their business, according to a classified document.
华盛顿——一份机密文件显示，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统所推动的一项雄心勃勃的12国贸易协议将允许外国公司起诉美国政府损害他们的投资“前景”及破坏他们的业务的行为。
The Trans-Pacific Partnership — a cornerstone of Obama's remaining economic agenda — would grant broad powers to multinational companies operating in North America, South America and Asia. Under the accord, still under negotiation but nearing completion, companies and investors would be empowered to challenge regulations, rules, government actions and court rulings — federal, state or local — before tribunals organized under the World Bank or the United Nations.
跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）——奥巴马剩余的经济议程的基石——将赋予在北美、南美和亚洲经营的跨国公司以广泛的权力。根据这项仍在商议但已接近尾声的协议，企业和投资者将获得挑战法规、原则、政府行为，以及由世界银行(World Bank)或联合国(United Nations)组织的法庭裁决——包括联邦、州和地方各层级——的权力。
Backers of the emerging trade accord, which is supported by a wide variety of business groups and favored by most Republicans, say that it is in line with previous agreements that contain similar provisions. But critics, including many Democrats in Congress, argue that the planned deal widens the opening for multinationals to sue in the United States and elsewhere, giving greater priority to protecting corporate interests than promoting free trade and competition that benefits consumers.
即将出台的贸易协定的支持者称，它符合之前包含类似条款的协议。各种各样的商业团体都对其表示支持，大多数共和党人也对它持欢迎态度。然而，包括许多国会民主党在内的批评人士则辩称，这项计划中的协议将增加跨国公司在美国和其他地方提起诉讼的机会，更有利于保护企业利益，而非促进有利于消费者的自由贸易和竞争。
The chapter in the draft of the trade deal dated Jan. 20, 2015, and obtained by The New York Times in collaboration with the group WikiLeaks, is certain to kindle opposition from both the political left and the right. The sensitivity of the issue is reflected in the fact that the cover mandates that the chapter not be declassified until four years after the Trans-Pacific Partnership comes into force or trade negotiations end, should the agreement fail.
贸易协议草案中这个章节标注的日期是2015年1月20日，由《纽约时报》和维基解密(WikiLeaks)组织共同获得。它必定会遭到政治左派和右派的反对。此事的敏感性反映在了这样一个事实当中：封面规定，在TPP生效或贸易谈判结束不到四年时，这章内容都不得解密，倘若协议失败的话。
Conservatives are likely to be incensed that even local policy changes could send the government to a U.N.-sanctioned tribunal. On the left, U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., law professors and a host of liberal activists have expressed fears the provisions would infringe on U.S. sovereignty and impinge on government regulation involving businesses in banking, tobacco, pharmaceuticals and other sectors.
保守派很可能会为连当地的政策变化都可能会把政府推向联合国授权的法庭感到愤怒。从左派来看，美国马萨诸塞州民主党参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)、法学教授和众多自由派活动人士都表示，他们担心这些规定将侵犯美国主权，对政府关于银行、烟草、制药等行业的监管造成冲击。
Members of Congress began reviewing the secret document last week in secure reading rooms, but this is the first disclosure to the public since an early version leaked in 2012.
上周，国会议员开始在安全阅览室里审阅这些机密文件，但这是自一个早期版本于2012年泄露以来，相关内容首次向公众披露。
“This is really troubling,” said U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer of New York, the Senate's No. 3 Democrat. “It seems to indicate that savvy, deep-pocketed foreign conglomerates could challenge a broad range of laws we pass at every level of government, such as made-in-America laws or anti-tobacco laws.”
“这真的很令人担忧，”美国纽约州参议员、参议院民主党第三号人物查尔斯·舒默(Charles Schumer)说。“这似乎表明，精明而财大气粗的外资集团可能会对我们在政府各个层面通过的法律形成挑战，比如美国制造法或反烟草法。”
The United States Trade Representative’s Office dismissed such concerns as overblown. Administration officials said opponents were using hypothetical cases to stoke irrational fear when an actual record exists that should soothe worries.
美国贸易代表办公室（United States Trade Representative’s Office，简称USTR）则认为这种观点纯属杞人忧天。政府官员称，反对者在用虚构的情况挑起非理性的恐惧；当一个真实的协议存在时，就应该会消除人们的担忧。
Such “Investor-State Dispute Settlement” accords exist already in more than 3,000 trade agreements across the globe. The United States is party to 51, including the North American Free Trade Agreement. Administration officials say they level the playing field for American companies doing business abroad, protect property from government seizure and ensure access to international justice.
从世界范围来看，超过3000个贸易协议中都存在这种关于“投资者-国家争端解决”的协定。美国共参与了51个，北美自由贸易协定（North American Free Trade Agreement，简称NAFTA）也在其中。政府官员称，它们为在国外开展业务的美国企业创造了公平的竞争环境，保护其财产免被政府没收，并确保公司能在国际上获得公平对待。
But the limited use of trade tribunals, critics argue, is because companies in those countries do not have the size, legal budgets and market power to come after governments in the United States. The Trans-Pacific Partnership could change all that, they say. The agreement would expand that authority to investors in countries as wealthy as Japan and Australia, with sophisticated companies deeply invested in the United States.
但批评人士认为，贸易法庭的使用之所以有限，是因为这些国家的企业不具备向美国政府追究责任的规模、法律预算和市场能力。他们说，TPP可能会改变这一切。该协议将把这种权力的适用范围扩大到像日本和澳大利亚这种富裕国家的投资者。这些国家往往有一些在美国拥有大量投资的成熟公司。