Everyone knows that the Obama administration’s domestic economic agenda is stalled in the face of scorched-earth opposition from Republicans. And that’s a bad thing: The U.S. economy would be in much better shape if Obama administration proposals like the American Jobs Act had become law.
大家都知道，由于共和党的抵死反对，奥巴马政府的国内经济议程止步不前。这不是什么好事，毕竟像《美国就业法案》(American Jobs Act)这样的政府提案如果能成为法律，美国的经济状况会比现在好得多。
It’s less well known that the administration’s international economic agenda is also stalled, for very different reasons. In particular, the centerpiece of that agenda — the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership, or T.P.P. — doesn’t seem to be making much progress, thanks to a combination of negotiating difficulties abroad and bipartisan skepticism at home.
不那么为人所知的是，奥巴马政府的国际经济议程也止步不前，但原因却大不相同。尤其是该议程的核心——拟建中的跨太平洋伙伴关系（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）——似乎并没有取得多大进展，这不仅是由于在国外的谈判遇到困难，也因国内两党对它心存疑虑。
And you know what? That’s O.K. It’s far from clear that the T.P.P. is a good idea. It’s even less clear that it’s something on which President Obama should be spending political capital. I am in general a free trader, but I’ll be undismayed and even a bit relieved if the T.P.P. just fades away.
其实说起来这也没有多大关系，因为TPP到底是不是件好事还远不清楚。奥巴马总统该不该在这件事情上投入政治资本就更难说了。我通常是支持自由贸易的，但如果TPP夭折了，我可能不会怎么灰心泄气，甚至还会有点如释重负之感。
The first thing you need to know about trade deals in general is that they aren’t what they used to be. The glory days of trade negotiations — the days of deals like the Kennedy Round of the 1960s, which sharply reduced tariffs around the world — are long behind us.
总的来说，对贸易协议这东西你首先得知道：它们已经不同于以往了。贸易谈判的辉煌时代——比如20世纪60年代的“肯尼迪回合”(Kennedy Round)曾大幅降低了世界各地的关税——早已离我们远去。
Why? Basically, old-fashioned trade deals are a victim of their own success: there just isn’t much more protectionism to eliminate. Average U.S. tariff rates have fallen by two-thirds since 1960. The most recent report on American import restraints by the International Trade Commission puts their total cost at less than 0.01 percent of G.D.P.
为什么会这样呢？简单而言，老式的贸易协议是其自身成就的受害者：现在已经没有留下什么保护主义需要去消除了。自20世纪60年代以来，美国平均关税率已经降低了三分之二。美国国际贸易委员会(International Trade Commission)最近发布的一份关于美国进口限制的报告显示，关税总成本低于GDP的0.01%。
Implicit protection of services — rules and regulations that have the effect of, say, blocking foreign competition in insurance — surely impose additional costs. But the fact remains that, these days, “trade agreements” are mainly about other things. What they’re really about, in particular, is property rights — things like the ability to enforce patents on drugs and copyrights on movies. And so it is with T.P.P.
对服务的隐形保护——比如说，一些规章制度可能会阻止保险业的外来竞争——必定会带来额外成本。但“贸易协议”主要关乎于其他事情，这一点至今如此。它们真正的关键尤其在于产权——捍卫药品专利权和电影著作权等权利的能力。TPP也是如此。
There’s a lot of hype about T.P.P., from both supporters and opponents. Supporters like to talk about the fact that the countries at the negotiating table comprise around 40 percent of the world economy, which they imply means that the agreement would be hugely significant. But trade among these players is already fairly free, so the T.P.P. wouldn’t make that much difference.
TPP的支持者和反对者都在对它大肆渲染。支持者喜欢摆的事实之一，就是现在参与谈判的国家占了世界经济总量的大约40%，因为他们觉得这个协议会发挥很大的影响力。但实际上这些国家之间的贸易已经相当自由了，所以有没有TPP差别不会太大。
Meanwhile, opponents portray the T.P.P. as a huge plot, suggesting that it would destroy national sovereignty and transfer all the power to corporations. This, too, is hugely overblown. Corporate interests would get somewhat more ability to seek legal recourse against government actions, but, no, the Obama administration isn’t secretly bargaining away democracy.
与此同时，反对者则把TPP形容成一个巨大的阴谋，说它会破坏国家主权，把所有权力都拱手交给企业。这种说法也过度夸张了。企业利益集团对抗政府行为的法律手段的确有所增强，但是奥巴马政府没有在偷偷拿民主做交易。
What the T.P.P. would do, however, is increase the ability of certain corporations to assert control over intellectual property. Again, think drug patents and movie rights.
不过TPP会导致某些企业在知识产权上有更多控制权，比如药品专利权和电影著作权。
Is this a good thing from a global point of view? Doubtful. The kind of property rights we’re talking about here can alternatively be described as legal monopolies. True, temporary monopolies are, in fact, how we reward new ideas; but arguing that we need even more monopolization is very dubious — and has nothing at all to do with classical arguments for free trade.
从全球角度来看，这是好事吗？可能不是。我们这里谈论的产权也可以被称为“合法的垄断”。诚然，暂时的垄断是我们回报创新的方式，但是说我们需要更多的垄断就值得商榷了——而且，这跟支持自由贸易的传统论点没有任何关系。
Now, the corporations benefiting from enhanced control over intellectual property would often be American. But this doesn’t mean that the T.P.P. is in our national interest. What’s good for Big Pharma is by no means always good for America.
眼下，强化知识产权控制权所惠及的公司往往来自美国。但是，这并不意味着TPP符合美国的利益。对药业大亨有益的事情，显然不一定总是对美国有利。
In short, there isn’t a compelling case for this deal, from either a global or a national point of view. Nor does there seem to be anything like a political consensus in favor, abroad or at home.
总之，无论是从全球角度还是从美国角度来看，TPP都缺乏令人信服的理由。而且无论在国外还是国内，似乎也看不到有赞同它的政治共识。
Abroad, the news from the latest meeting of negotiators sounds like what you usually hear when trade talks are going nowhere: assertions of forward movement but nothing substantive. At home, both Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, and Nancy Pelosi, the top Democrat in the House, have come out against giving the president crucial “fast-track” authority, meaning that any agreement can receive a clean, up-or-down vote.
在国外，谈判各方最近开会的新闻，听起来就是那种毫无进展的情形：声称在往前走，其实没有实质性成果。在国内，无论是参议院多数党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)，还是众议院民主党领袖南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)，都站出​​来反对将至关重要的“快速通道”权授予总统。“快速通道”即对任何协议都可以进行干净利落的直接表决。
So what I wonder is why the president is pushing the T.P.P. at all. The economic case is weak, at best, and his own party doesn’t like it. Why waste time and political capital on this project?
所以，我不知道为什么奥巴马总统会去推动TPP。目前的经济形势往好里说也算疲软，而且他自己的党派对这种状况很不满意。为什么还要在TPP上浪费时间和政治资本呢？
My guess is that we’re looking at a combination of Beltway conventional wisdom — Very Serious People always support entitlement cuts and trade deals — and officials caught in a 1990s time warp, still living in the days when New Democrats tried to prove that they weren’t old-style liberals by going all in for globalization. Whatever the motivations, however, the push for T.P.P. seems almost weirdly out of touch with both economic and political reality.
我猜测，有两股势力在合力推动TPP：一股是华盛顿的传统智慧——“非常严肃的人”永远支持减少福利项目，支持贸易协议，另一股是陷入20世纪90年代时空陷阱的官员，当时新民主党人试图通过全面走向全球化来证明自己不是旧式的自由主义者，这些官员依然活在那段日子里。但是，不管动机为何，推动TPP似乎都跟经济和政治现实存在着怪异的脱节。
So don’t cry for T.P.P. If the big trade deal comes to nothing, as seems likely, it will be, well, no big deal.
所以，如果TPP真的无疾而终了——看起来有可能，请不要为这个贸易协议哭泣，那没什么大不了的。