BEIJING — The Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal was welcomed on Tuesday as a win for the United States in its contest with China for clout in Asia, as America’s allies expressed optimism about the impact of the 12-nation accord on a region worried about its dependence on the slowing Chinese economy.
北京——本周二，“跨太平洋伙伴关系协定”（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）的签订受到了欢迎，它被视为美国在亚洲地区与中国角力的一场胜利，而美国的盟友也对这个12国贸易协议表示了乐观；随着中国经济增长的减缓，该地区对中国经济的依赖令这些国家感到担心。
The pact still must win approval in Congress, and analysts said the economic effects may be less sweeping than Washington predicts. But the mere fact that President Obama delivered on his pledge to close the deal came as a relief to allies in Asia. It was seen as a counterweight to China’s efforts to expand its influence not just in trade but in other areas, including its island-building in the disputed South China Sea and the establishment of a new regional development bank to compete with Western-led institutions.
该协定仍须获得国会的批准，分析人士也表示其在经济上的影响力可能会小于华盛顿的预测。但是，奥巴马总统确实兑现了当初的承诺，这就足以令美国的亚洲盟友感到安慰。TPP被视为对中国的一种制衡，因为中国正力图在贸易和其他领域扩大其影响力，包括在有争议的南海修建海岛，以及成立一个新的区域发展银行，与西方主导的银行开展竞争。
“The TPP may not be the game-changer the Americans say it will be, but if the TPP failed, it would certainly have been a blow to U.S. credibility, and its conclusion is to be welcomed,” said Bilahari Kausikan, a former permanent secretary of Singapore’s Foreign Ministry. Yet, he cautioned: “This is not going to erode what China does.”
“TPP未必能像美国人说的那样改变游戏规则，但如果TPP失败了，美国的信誉就肯定会遭到打击，所以它的达成是好消息，”前新加坡外交部(Foreign Ministry)常任秘书比拉哈里·考斯甘(Bilahari Kausikan)说。不过他也警告说：“这不会削弱中国的行动。”
The victory for the United States comes as China’s position in Asia has been thrown off balance by questions about the condition of its economy, which is expanding at its slowest pace in a quarter century and has sent tremors across the region. Even with the slowdown, though, the Chinese economy is growing faster than those of most industrial nations, and China enjoys deepening economic ties with almost all countries in the region.
美国的这场胜利到来之际，中国在亚洲的地位已经有所动摇，人们对其经济状况感到不安，因为中国出现了四分之一世纪以来最慢的增速，而且逐步扩大，在该地区引发了震颤。不过，即使有所放缓，中国的经济增速也比大多数工业国家快，而且中国与该地区的几乎所有国家都有深层经济联系。
The trade agreement is unlikely to change that, but it is an important symbol of America’s staying power in Asia, some experts said. “It does at least temporarily halt the seemingly inexorable waning of U.S. influence and the corresponding rise of Chinese influence in the Asian region,” said Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of international economics at Cornell University and former head of the China division at the International Monetary Fund.
一些专家表示，该贸易协定不太可能改变这种状况，但它是一个重要标志，显示了美国在亚洲拥有持久影响力。“美国在亚洲的影响力看上去在步步衰减，中国的影响力则在相应增长，TPP确实至少暂时可以阻止这种态势，”国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的前中国事务主管、康奈尔大学( Cornell University)教授埃斯瓦尔·S·普拉萨德(Eswar S. Prasad)说。
Since 2011, when President Obama told the Australian Parliament that the United States would play a “larger and long-term role” in shaping the Asian region, its allies have been waiting for results. For a while, the much-extolled “pivot” to Asia seemed to be mostly a verbal one — and one intended to antagonize China, by proposing to bolster America’s military presence and creating a trade zone that kept China out.
奥巴马总统在2011年对澳大利亚议会表示，美国将在亚洲地区“发挥更大的、长远的作用”，此后美国的盟友就一直在等待成果。有一段时间，备受吹捧的“转向亚洲”战略显得好像是以空谈为主。该战略旨在通过加强美国的军事存在，并创建一个把中国排除在外的贸易区，来与中国进行对抗。
Even as Washington talked about a new focus on Asia, China’s economic ties with America’s friends in the region steadily expanded. Many Asian countries now have trade agreements with China that were completed since the announcement of the “pivot,” and count China as their biggest trading partner. Australia, for example, signed a trade agreement with China in June, although it has yet to pass through Parliament.
尽管华盛顿谈到了要再度聚焦亚洲地区，但中国与美国的亚洲朋友们之间的经济联系却仍在不断增加。自从“转向亚洲”战略提出之后，很多亚洲国家自己已经与中国签订了贸易协定，并把中国视为最大的贸易伙伴。比如澳大利亚就在今年6月与中国签署了一项贸易协定，虽然尚未在议会获得通过。
China was seen to be winning in other ways, too. While its strategic capabilities in East Asia did not yet rival those of the United States, the financial picture was changing rapidly, with China becoming the major lender in the region, the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy group in Washington, said in a July report.
人们认为中国也在其他一些方面获得了胜利。华盛顿政策机构美洲国家对话组织(Inter-American Dialogue)在今年7月的报告中表示，虽然其在东亚的战略能力仍不是美国的对手，但随着中国成为该地区的主要贷款人，该地区的金融格局正在快速发生着变化。
“The China Development Bank and the Export-Import Bank of China now provide more loans to the region than the World Bank and the Asia Development Bank combined,” the report said. Indeed, although the TPP is seen mainly as an enterprise that aims to knit the United States and Asia closer together, three of its 12 members are in Latin America: Chile, Mexico and Peru.
该报告表示，“中国国家开发银行和中国进出口银行现在提供的贷款，比世界银行(World Bank)和亚洲开发银行(Asia Development Bank)加在一起还多，”事实上，尽管人们认为TPP的目的主要是把美国和亚洲紧密联系到一起，但其12个成员国中却有三个来自拉丁美洲，分别是智利、墨西哥和秘鲁。
In terms of trade competition with China in Asia, the deal would advantage American firms over Chinese firms “only very slightly,” since there is very little overlap in the range of goods each country exports to Asian members of the accord, said Nicholas Lardy, a China expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
华盛顿彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)的中国问题专家尼古拉斯·拉迪(Nicholas Lardy)说：在亚洲与中国开展贸易竞争时，这个协定为美国公司提供的相对中国企业的优势“微乎其微”，因为每一个国家出口到TPP亚洲成员国的产品范围几乎没有重叠。
The stakes for the Obama administration to conclude the negotiations became higher in Asia after the United States defense secretary, Ashton B. Carter, said in April that the trade pact was “as important to me as another aircraft carrier.” His comments were interpreted as an effort to play down the Asia “pivot” as a predominantly military project, an image that some countries worried served to exacerbate an arms race with China.
美国国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)在今年4月表示，这项贸易协定“对我来说，就像增加了一艘航空母舰一样重要”，这进一步加大了奥巴马政府达成此协议的重要性。他的评论被解读为将“转向”亚洲政策弱化为以军事为主的项目，这种形象令一些国家担心与中国的军备竞赛加剧。
In China, where the government’s initial opposition to the trade pact has softened recently, the Ministry of Commerce issued a statement on Tuesday saying that the accord was “one of the important free trade agreements in the Asia-Pacific region.” Early in the negotiations, Beijing criticized the pact as an American effort to contain China, an argument that is still frequently heard from Chinese analysts.
在中国，政府起初反对该贸易协定，但最近态度有所缓和，商务部在周二发表声明称，TPP“是当前亚太地区重要的自贸协定之一”。谈判初期，北京方面批评称美国为了遏制中国制定协议，现在还经常能听到中国分析人士提出这一观点。
“Initial Chinese hostility toward TPP has moderated dramatically,” Mr. Lardy said. But if China contemplated becoming a member, as some reform-minded Chinese economists have suggested, the government would need to work harder at economic reform in order to meet the pact’s standards, Mr. Lardy said.
“中国起初对TPP的敌对态度已经有了很大的缓和，”拉迪说。但拉迪表示，如果中国要像一些改革派经济学家提议的那样，考虑加入其中，中国政府需要更加努力地开展经济改革，以达到协定标准。
In a surprising statement in Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose relations with China have been poor, suggested China should become a member of the pact. “If China joined TPP in the future,” Mr. Abe said, “it would contribute greatly to our country’s security and the stability of the Asia-Pacific region, and that would have an extremely large strategic significance.”
日本首相安倍晋三意外地发表声明称中国应该成为TPP成员。安倍晋三与中国的关系一直很糟。“如果中国未来加入TPP，”安倍晋三说。“这将有助于我国的安全及亚太地区的稳定，具有重大的战略意义。”
But Peter Drysdale, emeritus professor of economics at the Australian National University in Canberra, said it was almost certain that China would stay outside the TPP, and therefore work even harder at cementing its economic ties in East Asia through other means.
但堪培拉的澳大利亚国立大学(Australian National University)的经济学荣誉教授彼得·德赖斯代尔(Peter Drysdale)表示，几乎可以肯定的是，中国不会加入TPP，因此中国会更加努力通过其他方式加强与东亚的经济联系。
“Even with growth two or three percentage points lower than its current rate, there’s not a major business anywhere in the region, including in Japan, that doesn’t have to factor China in,” Mr. Drysdale said. “With China out of TPP for the foreseeable future, the incentive for China and its East Asian partners to ramp up their economic ties will be more powerful.”
“即便经济增长率比现有水平降低两或三个百分点，该地区包括日本在内的国家没有哪项主要业务不需要将中国考虑在内，”德赖斯代尔说。“中国在可预见的未来不会加入TPP，中国及其东亚伙伴加强经济联系的动机会更加强大。”
Australia’s prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, greeted the deal with enthusiasm, saying it offered “unprecedented new opportunities” for new markets in Asia and Latin America, as Australia faced the end of its mining boom. Mr. Turnbull, a proponent of close ties with Beijing, did not mention China in his comments.
澳大利亚总理马尔科姆·特恩布尔(Malcolm Turnbull)热情地欢迎这一协定，称随着澳大利亚面临矿业繁荣的终结，它为亚洲及拉丁美洲的新市场提供了“前所未有的新机遇”。支持与北京建立密切关系的特恩布尔在评论中没有提到中国。
Mr. Abe also hailed the accord, saying, “The curtain is finally rising on a new Asian century.” Japan was a latecomer to the negotiations, joining only in 2013, and demands by its influential farm lobby that it keep in place tariffs on rice, beef, milk and other agricultural products proved to be one of several major stumbling blocks.
安倍晋三也对这项协定表示欢迎，称“亚洲新世纪的大幕终于即将开启”。日本是后来者，在2013年才参与谈判，国内颇具影响力的农场游说团体要求保持对大米、牛肉、牛奶及其他农产品征收关税，这些要求结果成为谈判的几大绊脚石之一。
Mr. Abe championed the deal against considerable domestic opposition, including from many members of his own conservative party, large numbers of whom represent rural constituencies. But Japan’s Parliament was widely expected to approve the accord.
安倍晋三不顾国内的大力反对，支持该协议，他领导的保守派政党的很多成员也持反对态度，该党的大量成员代表农村选区。但人们普遍认为日本议会将通过该协议。
Although the conclusion of the negotiations were broadly welcomed among America’s friends in Asia, the United States should not view Asian nations as wanting to decide between Washington and Beijing, Mr. Kausikan said.
考斯甘表示，虽然谈判结果受到美国的亚洲盟友的广泛欢迎，美国不应该以此认为，亚洲国家想在华盛顿和北京这两者中做出抉择。