Twitter’s growth has slowed substantially in the United States and Europe, and on Friday, nervous investors sent the company’s stock to its lowest closing price since it first sold shares to the public in November.
Twitter在美国和欧洲的增长大幅放缓，周五，紧张的投资者令Twitter收盘跌至去年11月上市以来的最低谷。
But even if the social network is reaching a plateau in many developed countries, it is still spreading like kudzu in Asia and Latin America, according to a new report to be released on Tuesday by the research firm eMarketer. The five fastest-growing countries for Twitter this year will be Indonesia, India, Argentina, Mexico and Brazil, the firm said.
但根据研究公司eMarketer定于周二发布的最新报告，尽管这家社交网络在许多发达国家的增长正趋于平稳，它在亚洲和拉丁美洲仍在如野草般迅速增长。这家公司说，Twitter今年在五个国家增长最快，它们是印度尼西亚、印度、阿根廷、墨西哥和巴西。
Over all, Twitter’s user total is expected to increase 24.4 percent this year to 227.5 million, and grow another 18.5 percent to 269.6 million in 2015, eMarketer said.
eMarketer说，总体上看，预计Twitter的用户总数今年将增长24.4%，达到2.275亿，2015年再增长18.5%，达到2.696亿。
“Twitter has a lot of runway ahead for growth internationally,” said Debra Aho Williamson, the principal analyst for social media at eMarketer, in an interview.
eMarketer首席社交媒体分析师德布拉·阿霍·威廉姆森(Debra Aho Williamson)在接受采访时说，“Twitter在全球还有很大的增长空间。”
While the research firm’s data is largely in line with recent trends reported by Twitter itself, its estimates of the number of individuals actually using the service are much lower than Twitter’s own publicly reported numbers.
这家研究公司的数据与Twitter自己公布的最近趋势基本一致，但eMarketer对真正使用Twitter服务的人数的估计，远远低于Twitter自己公布的数字。
For example, eMarketer calculated that Twitter had about 183 million active monthly users at the end of 2013, compared to Twitter’s figure of 241 million.
例如，eMarketer估计，Twitter在2013年年底拥有大约1.83亿月活跃用户，而Twitter公布的数字是2.41亿。
Ms. Williamson said that eMarketer used consumer survey data and other techniques to weed out business and duplicate individual accounts and come up with its own country-by-country estimates of the number of unique users.
威廉姆森说，eMarketer使用了消费者调查数据以及一些其他技术，剔除了企业账户和重复的个人账户，从而估计出了各国的独立用户数量。
Twitter makes its money by selling advertisements that mimic the 140-character messages from users that are the backbone of its service.
Twitter通过销售广告盈利，这些广告的形式和Twitter用户在上面发布的140个字符消息——也就是Twitter的核心服务——是相似的。
The United States accounted for nearly three-fourths of the ad revenue in 2013, according to eMarketer, yet the American user total is expected to grow 11.6 percent this year, and 9.1 percent next year.
根据eMarketer的数据，Twitter在2013年的广告收入中，有四分之三来自美国。而预计美国的用户总数今年将增长11.6%，明年增长9.1%。
The domestic slowdown has worried Wall Street, which doesn’t see how Twitter can quickly increase its international advertising to match its sizzling growth in developing countries. On Friday, Twitter’s shares closed at $30.50, far below their all-time high of $74.73 and barely above the $26 price of the company’s initial public offering.
Twitter在国内增长放缓让华尔街感到担忧。华尔街不认为Twitter的国际广告可以迅速增长，达到和发展中国家的高速发展相称的水平。周五，Twitter的股价收于30.50美元（约合191元人民币），远低于74.73美元的历史高点，略高于26美元的股票发行价。
But Ms. Williamson said that Twitter, like its rival Facebook, will eventually figure out how to pull in foreign advertising revenue to match the growth in places like India and Indonesia. This year, those two countries are projected to become Twitter’s third- and fourth-largest countries, respectively, as measured by number of users, eMarketer said.
但威廉姆森说，就像竞争对手Facebook一样，Twitter最终会想出办法，使外国广告收入达到和印度和印度尼西亚等地的增长相称水平。eMarketer说，这两个国家预计今年将分别成为Twitter用户数量第三和第四多的国家。
“Over time, they will be able to monetize,” Ms. Williamson said. “These are markets where people are using their smartphones and feature phones that are perfect for Twitter.”
“一段时间后，他们将能够从中获利，”威廉姆森说，“这些市场是广泛使用智能手机和功能手机的，这对Twitter来说再合适不过。”