SAN FRANCISCO — Twitter, which began as a side project in a small but failing start-up seven years ago and grew into one of the world’s largest platforms for public conversation, is about to take its biggest step yet into maturity: selling stock to the public.
旧金山——七年前问世的时候，Twitter只是一家失败的小型创业公司的副业项目，到了现在，它已经发展成全球最大的公众对话平台之一，而且正准备在进入成熟期的过程中迈出迄今为止最大的一步：向公众出售股份。
The company announced on Thursday — in one of the 140-character messages that are the backbone of the service — that it had filed paperwork with regulators to eventually sell shares in an initial public offering. However, it earlier filed the documents confidentially under a special provision of securities law that allows a company with less than $1 billion in annual revenue to keep its financial data secret until it begins actively marketing its stock to investors.
该公司本周四用一条140个字符的消息——这种消息是其服务的支柱——宣布，它已向监管机构提交书面申请，希望最终可以进行首次公开募股，向公众出售股份。但是，它是以秘密方式提交的文件，因为证券法有特别规定，在开始积极向投资者推销股票之前，年营收低于10亿美元的公司可以保密它的财务数据。
Twitter’s caution follows the disastrous I.P.O. of its archrival, Facebook. In May 2012, Facebook sold $16 billion in stock to investors, only to see its share price sliced in half in the ensuing months as shareholders worried that the company could not make money from its billion users.
Twitter的谨慎来自于前车之鉴：其主要竞争对手Facebook 的首次公开募股是一场灾难。2012年5月，Facebook向投资者出售了160亿美元的股票，股价却在上市后几个月内缩水了一半，原因是股东担心，该公司可能无法从其10亿多用户那里赚钱。
But investors have recently become enamored of all things social and mobile, and have become particularly enchanted by the fast growth of mobile advertising revenue at social networking companies. Facebook’s shares hit a record high this week and ended Thursday at $44.75, well above the $38 I.P.O. price. LinkedIn, the business-oriented social network, is trading at nosebleed levels, even after selling another $1 billion in stock to investors in a secondary offering.
但是最近，投资者们开始对所有带有社交和移动元素的东西着迷，特别让他们心动的则是社交网络公司快速增长的移动广告收入。Facebook的股价本周创下历史新高，周四以44.75美元的价格收盘，远高于38美元的公开招股价格。面向商业的社交网络 LinkedIn进行了二次发售，又出售了10亿美元股票给投资者，即便如此，它现在的股价也涨得让人流鼻血。
This is an opportune time for Twitter to join their ranks. Its service is considered well suited for mobile phones, with its core tweets resembling simple text messages, and it has been rapidly growing both in global users and in its advertising offerings. The microblogging service already has well above 200 million active users and is fast approaching 300 million, according to memos shared with staff members.
现在是Twitter加入它们行列的好时机。Twitter的服务被认为非常适合于手机，因为其核心是推文，类似于简单的短信，而且Twitter的全球用户数量和广告产品也在迅速增长。该公司工作人员提供的备忘录显示，这个微博服务的活跃用户已经远远超过2亿，正在快速接近3亿大关。
By its own estimates, Twitter was profitable in December of last year and generated more than $100 million in revenue in the final quarter of 2012, according to numbers in an e-mail shared among staff. These numbers could not be independently verified. But it has not been consistently profitable in 2013 because it has reinvested money into acquisitions, said people with knowledge of Twitter’s financials who declined to be named.
从Twitter自己的估计来看，它在去年12月实现了盈利，并在2012年最后一季度获得了逾1亿美元的营收，这些数字来自于公司内部员工收到的一封电邮，无法进行独立核实。但一位了解Twitter财务状况的匿名人士透露，在2013年，Twitter并没有一直保持盈利，因为它把钱投入了收购活动。
Twitter is expected to post around $600 million in revenue this year and close to $1 billion next year, according to internal projections and estimates by the research firm eMarketer. While it’s unclear how much money Twitter will seek in its offering, the amount is certain to be in the billions of dollars.
根据调研公司eMarketer进行的内部预测和估计，Twitter今年的营收可能会达到6亿美元左右，明年将接近10亿美元。虽然目前还不清楚Twitter希望通过上市募集多少资金，但这个数字肯定会在10亿美元级别。
The company needs to build a war chest to continue financing its global expansion, including acquisitions like its $300 million purchase Monday of MoPub, an advertising technology company. And it needs cash to take on the much larger and better-funded Facebook as they both vie to create new products that will help advertisers reach consumers on the go.
Twitter需要建立一个资金库，以便为它的全球扩张行动持续供应资金；比如本周一，它就斥资3亿美元收购了广告技术公司MoPub。此外，Twitter也需要现金来跟规模更大、资金更充裕的Facebook较量，因为两家公司都在争先恐后地开发新产品，借此帮助广告主向移动消费者投放广告。
Employees and the company’s venture capital shareholders are also eager to have a way to easily cash out some of the money they have tied in the company’s shares.
Twitter的员工和风险投资股东也急于找出一种方法，借此轻松变现该公司的部分股份。
Since Twitter received its first venture investment in June 2007, the company has taken more than $1 billion in venture funding from firms including Union Square Ventures, Bezos Expeditions, Spark Capital and Institutional Venture Partners.
自2007年6月得到第一笔风险投资开始，Twitter已经获得了超过10亿美元的风险投资，投资方包括联合广场风险投资基金(Union Square Ventures)、Bezos Expeditions、星火资本(Spark Capital)和机构风险合伙公司(Institutional Venture Partners)。
Twitter notified its employees of the public offering during a global meeting on Thursday, catching most of them by surprise, according to several employees who were in attendance at the meeting.
Twitter是在周四的一次全球会议上通知员工公开发行股票一事的。据几名与会员工表示，通知让大部分员工大吃一惊。
Although Twitter made the news public today, the company first filed for its public offering with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this summer under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups, or JOBS, Act, according to several people with knowledge of the company who spoke on condition of anonymity.
几名熟悉公司情况但要求不具名的人士称，尽管Twitter今天才公布消息，但早在今年初夏，公司便依照《提振美国创业公司法案》（Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act，即《JOBS法案》）向证券交易委员会（Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC）提出了上市申请。
It has used the confidentiality afforded by the act to tweak numbers and estimates and consult with the S.E.C. staff, in part to avoid the calamities that befell Facebook during its public offering, these people said.
这些人说，利用该法案赋予的保密权，Twitter对数字和估测数据进行了微调，并咨询了SEC的工作人员，部分是为了避免Facebook公开发行股票时遭遇的不利局面。
While the company hopes to go public by the end of the year, the actual public offering could take place in early 2014, according to people who were briefed on the matter.
据了解此事的人称，尽管Twitter希望在今年年底前上市，公开发行股票却可能要到2014年年初才会变成现实。
Goldman Sachs is leading the underwriting for the offering, according to people briefed on the matter. It was not yet clear which other banks would participate, but JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley are likely to be involved, according to several people knowledgeable about the deal. However, Barclays Capital, which participated in the Facebook I.P.O., is not currently involved in the Twitter offering, according to these people.
了解此事的人表示，高盛(Goldman Sachs)是Twitter此次募股的主要承销商。尚不清楚还有哪些银行会参与，但据了解该交易的几名人士称，摩根大通(J.P. Morgan)和摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)可能会参与。然而，这些人说，参与了Facebook首次公开募股的巴克莱资本(Barclays Capital)目前没有参与Twitter的股票发行事宜。
Twitter first started as a side project from Odeo, a podcasting company started by Noah Glass and Evan Williams, in early 2006. The original concept of the company was an amalgamation of ideas from Mr. Glass, Mr. Williams and two employees of Odeo, Jack Dorsey and Biz Stone, who wanted to build a service that would allow people to connect with friends and share similar musical tastes.
Twitter创立于2006年年初，当时只是诺厄·格拉斯(Noah Glass)和埃文·威廉姆斯(Evan Williams)创建的播客公司Odeo的一个副业项目。它最初的理念融合了格拉斯、威廉姆斯和另外两名Odeo员工杰克·多尔西(Jack Dorsey)和比兹·斯通(Biz Stone)的想法，他们想打造一种服务，让人们借此与朋友联系，并分享相似的音乐品味。
All of the founders have since left the daily operations of the company, and Dick Costolo is currently the company’s chief executive. Mr. Costolo first joined Twitter as the company’s first chief operating officer, but took over as the chief executive in October 2010 after Mr. Williams stepped down from daily operations. Mr. Williams and Mr. Dorsey are still on the company’s seven-person board.
前述创始人都已退出了公司的日常运作，迪克·科斯特罗(Dick Costolo)是Twitter现在的首席执行官。科斯特罗最初是以公司首位首席运营官的身份加入Twitter的，但2010年10月，在威廉斯退出公司的日常运作后，科斯特罗接掌了首席执行官一职。威廉斯和多尔西依然是公司七人董事会的成员。
Trading in Twitter shares has gone on for years, even though the company is not yet public, because of the robust secondary market for stock in technology companies. Firsthand Tech Value Fund has bought more than one million Twitter shares on the secondary market in recent years. Firsthand acquired them at an average cost of $17 a share, which the portfolio manager Landis said valued Twitter at around $9 billion. It most recently bought shares earlier this year for about $16.50 a share.
科技公司股票的二级市场非常强劲，这样一来，尽管Twitter还未上市，买卖该公司股票的行为却已经存在多年。最近几年，Firsthand Tech Value Fund公司已购买了超过100万股Twitter股票。该公司的购入均价为每股17美元，其投资组合经理兰迪斯(Landis)表示，这就意味着Twitter市值约为90亿美元。该公司最近一次购买Twitter股票是在今年早些时候，当时的购入价约为每股16.50美元。
Longtime investors welcomed the news. “It’s a great time for the company to be going public,“ said George Zachary, a general partner at Charles River Ventures, which invested $250,000 for 1 percent of Twitter its first funding round. “Their I.P.O. is well timed. The recent rise in Facebook stock price is probably going to bode well.”
长期投资者对这一消息表示欢迎。“眼下正是Twitter上市的好时机，”Charles River Ventures的普通合伙人乔治·扎卡里(George Zachary)说，“他们IPO的时机选择得很好。Facebook最近股价上扬，多半是个好兆头。”在Twitter的首轮融资中，Charles River Ventures投入了25万美元，购得其1%的股份。