Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange called out orders for shares of Twitter for the first time Thursday morning as one of Wall Street’s traditional rituals thrust the young company into the public markets.
周四上午，纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)大厅里的交易员高声报出Twitter首次发售股票的订单，这是华尔街将年轻公司送入公共市场的传统仪式之一。
On its inaugural day of trading, Twitter managed to avoid the missteps that marred Facebook’s initial public offering last year, though Twitter’s lofty stock market valuation added pressure on the company to turn a profit soon.
交易首日，Twitter成功避免了Facebook去年首次公开募股时所犯的错误，尽管Twitter较高的股市估值给该公司带来了迅速盈利的压力。
After being priced conservatively at $26 a share on Wednesday night, Twitter’s stock eventually began trading at $45.10 about 10:30 a.m. In its first hours on the market, the stock — trading under the ticker TWTR — rose as high as $50.09 a share before settling around $46 by midafternoon. Twitter’s shares closed at $44.90, 73 percent above its I.P.O. price but slightly below the opening figure.
周三晚间定出每股26美元（约合158元人民币）的保守价格之后，Twitter股票最终在上午10点30分左右以45.1美元的价格开始交易。Twitter的股票代码为TWTR，上市刚刚几个小时，股价就飙升至每股50.09美元，到下午三点左右则稳定在46美元上下，最终以每股44.9美元报收，较发行价上涨73%，但略低于开盘价。
Despite a smooth start to trading, Twitter is sure to face continued scrutiny as it works to justify a valuation of $31.7 billion to investors sensitive to the nuances of quarterly earnings reports.
尽管有了一个顺利的交易开端，但Twitter肯定会面临持久的密切关注，它得向投资者证明317亿美元的估值是合理的，这些投资者对季度收益报告的细微差别非常敏感。
“This is a giant poker game,” said Lawrence E. Leibowitz, chief operating officer of NYSE Euronext, as traders and bankers set the opening price in the minutes before Twitter’s stock began trading. “It will be a bit volatile, but it’s a very exciting deal.”
Twitter股票开始交易前几分钟，交易员和银行家正在设定开盘价的时候，纽约泛欧交易所集团(NYSE Euronext)首席运营官劳伦斯·E·莱博维茨(Lawrence E. Leibowitz)表示，“这是一场盛大的扑克游戏。价格会有一些波动，但这是非常令人振奋的交易。”
The first surprise of the morning came as Twitter’s entourage — led by the company’s chief executive, Dick Costolo; the chief financial officer, Mike Gupta; the co-founders Jack Dorsey, Evan Williams and Biz Stone; and the lead Goldman Sachs banker on the offering, Anthony Noto — appeared not on the podium but on the trading floor below.
由公司首席执行官迪克·科斯特罗(Dick Costolo)、首席财务官麦克·古普塔(Mike Gupta)、联合创始人杰克·多尔西(Jack Dorsey)、埃文·威廉姆斯(Evan Williams)和比兹·斯通(Biz Stone)带领的Twitter团队，以及主导发行工作的高盛(Goldman Sachs)银行家安东尼·诺托(Anthony Noto)没有站在讲台上，而是出现在下面的交易大厅中，带来了当天上午的第一个惊喜。
Ringing the bell in their place was an eclectic selection of Twitter users: the actor Patrick Stewart; Vivienne Harr, a 9-year-old girl who opened a lemonade stand to raise money to end child slavery; and Cheryl Fiandaca, the head of the Boston Police Department’s public information office.
站在讲台上替他们敲钟的是从Twitter用户中挑选的代表：演员帕特里克·斯图尔特(Patrick Stewart)、曾摆设柠檬水摊档为终结儿童奴役现象筹资的9岁女孩维维恩·哈尔(Vivienne Harr)，以及波士顿警察局(Boston Police Department)公共信息办公室主任谢里尔·菲安达卡(Cheryl Fiandaca)。
Even after other stocks on the Big Board began trading, however, Twitter shares were held back for more than an hour as the so-called price discovery process got underway.
然而，即便是在纽交所(Big Board)其他股票开始交易之后，人们在一个多小时的时间里仍无法交易Twitter股票，因为所谓的价格发现过程尚未结束。
The process, unique to the N.Y.S.E., allows an experienced market maker to gauge demand from both buyers and sellers, who shouted out tentative orders in a crush of traders in the middle of the exchange floor.
纽交所独有的价格发现过程使经验丰富的做市商得以估量买卖双方的需求，他们通过聚集在交易大厅中间的交易员高声报出试探性订单。
The aim was to zero in on a final opening price, reducing the sort of volatility that hampered Facebook’s debut on Nasdaq. Twitter’s designated market maker was Barclays, and for more than an hour a representative from the bank set a number of price ranges, as low as $40 a share and as high as $47.
这个过程的目的是敲定最终的开盘价，减少曾使Facebook在纳斯达克(Nasdaq)上市受挫的那种波动。Twitter指定的做市商是巴克莱银行(Barclays)，该银行的一名代表在一个多小时的时间里设定了几个定价区间，最低每股40美元，最高每股47美元。
During this time, institutional investors who had placed orders with Twitter’s underwriters were being notified what allocations they received. Some were allocated fewer shares than they requested, while others received their full allocation. Those who did not receive the full amount placed new orders, driving the price up.
这段时间里，曾向Twitter承销人预订股票的机构投资者陆续获知他们得到的配额。有些机构所得的股票比他们要求购买的要少，其他一些机构则获得了全部配额。这一来，没有得到全部配额的机构便提交了新订单，价格由此抬高。
After more than an hour of price discovery, Twitter’s stock finally began trading.
一个多小时的价格发现过程之后，Twitter的股票终于开始交易。
The offering was a significant victory for NYSE Euronext in its long-running competition with Nasdaq for premier stock listings. The N.Y.S.E. has regularly attracted more total listings than Nasdaq, but Nasdaq has been more popular and has long been identified with technology companies. Facebook, Google, Apple and Microsoft all trade on Nasdaq.
纽交所在重要股票上市方面与纳斯达克竞争已久，此次交易对它来说是一次巨大的胜利。纽交所吸引的上市总数一般比纳斯达克要多，但纳斯达克一直更受欢迎，早已与科技公司打成一片。Facebook、谷歌(Google)、苹果(Apple)和微软(Microsoft)都在纳斯达克进行交易。
But this year, for the first time, N.Y.S.E. has drawn a majority of technology listings, according to data from Thomson Reuters. After Thursday, the exchange was responsible for more than 70 percent of the money raised by technology companies.
但是，根据汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)提供的数据，纽交所今年首次赢得了大部分的科技股上市任务。周四之后，科技公司筹得的资金有超过70%来自纽交所。
Mr. Noto, the Goldman banker who led the I.P.O., expressed relief once trading was underway with a tweet that read simply “Phew!”
交易开始之后，负责此次IPO的高盛银行家诺托发推文表达了放松之情。这条推文只有一个字“吁！”
But some stock analysts were already cautioning that Twitter was overpriced. Soon after the stock began trading, Brian W. Wieser of Pivotal Research, who had a price target of $30 on Twitter before the shares began trading, downgraded the stock to sell.
但是，一些股票分析师已经提出警告，认为Twitter定价过高。Twitter股票开始交易后不久，Pivotal Research的布赖恩·威泽(Brian Wieser)就把它的评级降为“售出”。交易开始前，他给Twitter定的价格目标为30美元。
“With a price that pushes into the high 30s and beyond, Twitter is simply too expensive,” he wrote in a client note. To justify the opening price of $45.10, Mr. Wieser said Twitter would have to report more than $6 billion in annual sales by 2018, compared with the roughly $600 million expected this year.
“Twitter的价格达到了接近40乃至更高，真的太贵了，”他在写给客户的报告中称。威泽说，要让45.1美元的开盘价显得合情合理，Twitter的年销售额必须在2018年之前超过60亿美元，而它今年的预期销售额只有6亿美元左右。
NYSE Euronext executives said that as long as shares did not fall below the price of the first trade, the day would be viewed as a success. “Everyone will be really happy as long as it closes above the open,” Mr. Leibowitz said. By that small measure, the I.P.O. did not succeed, with shares closing just below the price of the first trade.
纽交所高管称，只要股价不远远低于首次交易的价格，这就将是成功的一天。“只要收盘价高于开盘价，每个人都会感到非常高兴，”莱博维茨说。根据这个小标准，此次IPO并不成功，因为其收盘价比首次交易价格略低。
But by raising billions of dollars for the company and pulling off a relatively smooth first day of trading, Twitter, its bankers and its exchange have little to complain about.
但是，公司筹到了数十亿美元的资金，度过了一个相对顺利的交易首日，由此看来，Twitter、Twitter的银行家以及其交易所并没有什么抱怨的理由。
After the stock had been trading for some time, Twitter’s team assembled outside the N.Y.S.E., braving a pelting rain to have their picture taken in front of the exchange.
股票交易进行了一阵之后，Twitter团队便在纽交所外集合，不顾大雨在交易所门前合影留念。
“It’s a proud day for the company,” Mr. Costolo said. “But we have a lot of work ahead of us.”
“对公司而言，这是值得骄傲的一天，”科斯特罗说。“但我们还有很多工作要做。”