As the hunt for terrorism suspects intensified in Brussels, the authorities requested that Belgians refrain from posting messages on Sunday that might expose or interfere with police operations.
周日的时候，随着布鲁塞尔加强追捕恐怖嫌疑人的行动，当局要求比利时民众避免发布有可能暴露或干扰警方行动的消息。
The people of Twitter decided to respond with what will now be known as an internationally recognized symbol of solidarity: cat photos.
Twitter用户决定贴出猫咪的照片来进行回应，让它们成为了国际公认的团结标志。
Steven Vandeput, Belgium’s minister of defense, and the police in Brussels were probably not expecting a chorus of meows to rise from the depths of the Internet when they asked people to maintain social-media silence during the security crisis.
比利时国防大臣史蒂文·范德普特(Steven Vandeput)和布鲁塞尔警方恐怕没预料到，当他们请求大家在安全危机期间在社交媒体上保持沉默时，会从互联网深处传来一大片的喵喵声。
But within the hour, magical Internet memes were deployed to cut the tension.
不到一小时，网上就冒出了神奇的米姆(meme)，来缓解这里的紧张气氛。
The cats appeared with machine guns, french fries and beer to comfort the citizens of Brussels, who need it: They were told to stay away from subways, schools and shopping centers as officials maintained the highest possible terror alert level, and no end to the lockdown is in sight.
猫与机枪、薯条和啤酒一起出现在图片中，对布鲁塞尔市民表示慰问。他们确实需要安慰：当局告知大家要远离地铁、学校、购物中心，官方把恐怖警戒水平保持在最高级别，完全没有结束警戒的迹象。
In some cases, the cats were (really cute) suspects, suspicious packages or military strategists.
在某些帖子中，猫是（看上去很可爱的）犯罪嫌疑人、可疑包裹或军事策略师。
At a news conference on Sunday, the authorities did not mention the cat photos, but did thank the public for obliging the original request.
周日举行新闻发布会时，当局没有提到猫咪照片，但是对公众遵从他们的请求表示了感谢。
“The Federal Prosecutor’s Office and the police services insist on thanking the press and users of social media for having taken into account the needs of the ongoing operation when covering the operation,” Eric Van der Sijpt, a spokesman for the prosecutor’s office in Brussels, told reporters.
“记者和社交媒体用户在发文的时候考虑到了正在进行中的行动的需要，联邦检察部门和警察部门对此表示衷心感谢，”布鲁塞尔检察部门的发言人埃里克·范德吉普特(Eric Van der Sjipt)对记者们说。
On Monday, the police in Brussels acknowledged the bit of levity, and responded with a tongue-in-cheek response and a picture of cat food. “For cats who helped us last night ... Help yourself!” The post read.
本周一，布鲁塞尔警方承认了这种卖萌现象，并幽默地做出回应，配以猫粮图片。“送给那些昨晚帮助了我们的猫咪……尽情享用！”贴子中写道。
Others were pleased — if not a little confused.
其他人也很高兴——如果不是有点困惑的话。
Good job, Internet.
干得好，互联网。