Uber has already raised billions of dollars from investors in the Western world. Now, it is close to receiving even more from one of the most powerful Internet companies in China.
Uber已经获得了西方投资人数十亿美元的投资。如今，它即将从中国最强大的互联网公司获得更多资金。
The start-up is close to securing an investment worth hundreds of millions of dollars from Baidu, China’s top search engine, a person briefed on the matter said on Friday.
一名知情人士在周五透露，这家初创企业即将获得中国最大的搜索引擎百度提供的数亿美元资金。
The pending deal would come on top of a mammoth $1.2 billion financing round that Uber closed last week. Even with that huge sum of cash, the company left open the possibility of raising as much as $600 million, which a person close to the company suggested could come from a Chinese technology concern.
Uber上周完成了12亿美元的融资，即将达成的这笔交易将成为这一轮融资的最高点。即便已经获得如此巨额的资金，一名与该公司关系密切的人士表示，公司仍有可能从一家中国科技公司再筹得高达6亿美元。
Forging a partnership with Baidu could help Uber with its most ambitious goal to date: becoming the world’s private car service. No longer content with dominating the burgeoning “ride-share” business in the United States — an industry the company helped pioneer — it has set its sights on expanding its operations around the globe, including in China.
与百度达成合作伙伴关系可以帮助Uber完成到目前为止最宏伟的目标：成为全球性的私人用车服务。作为美国的“搭车”服务业先行者，Uber不再满足于在迅速发展的美国市场占据主导地位，转而将目光投向全球，准备在中国等国家扩展业务。
Though Uber has become a behemoth, valued at about $40 billion by investors, it has struggled to compete in China against local competitors backed by that country’s other two Internet titans, the Alibaba Group and Tencent. The startup has operated in China for about a year.Joining with Baidu could provide a wealth of resources to help strengthen its operations there. The Chinese search giant is expected to provide Uber with access to its huge amount of data and its core map service.
Uber已经成了一个庞然大物——投资者对它的估值约为400亿美元——但它仍然需要在中国与该国另外两个互联网巨头阿里巴巴集团和腾讯支持的对手竞争。这家初创公司已经在中国运营了大约一年。与百度的联合，可以提供丰富的资源，帮它加强在中国的运营。据预计，这家中国搜索巨头将为Uber提供访问其大量数据的权限和核心地图服务。
Baidu could also help Uber in dealing with local authorities, a potentially important aid as the start-up grapples with regulatory pushback around the world. Spain, Thailand and several cities in India and the United States are among the regions that have banned Uber’s mainstay service, at least temporarily.
百度还能帮Uber应对地方当局，这个帮助可能非常重要，因为这家初创公司在世界各地都面临监管问题。西班牙、泰国，以及印度和美国的几座城市，都禁止了Uber的核心业务，至少暂时如此。