The Uber app is a thing of beauty.
叫车应用优步(Uber)是一个美妙的事物。
You click a button, and it immediately shows you your location. You hit another button, and it tells you how quickly an Uber car will arrive to take you where you want to go. If you want a ride during a heavy commuter time, it will charge you more — surge pricing, as they call it at Uber — but you’ll know in advance how much extra, and you’ll be given a chance to decide whether to accept or not. On the app, you can keep track of the car that is coming to get you. Sure enough, the car arrives, you hop in and off you go. The fare is charged via the app, so no cash changes hands between the driver and the customer.
你按下一个按钮，它会立刻显示你的位置。你按下另一个按钮，它会告诉你在多长时间之内就会有一辆优步车到达这个位置，送你去你想去的地方。如果你要在交通高峰期乘车，它会向你收取更高的费用——在优步内部，这被称作峰时定价——但你有权决定是否接受。在优步上，你还可以追踪正赶过来接你的车辆。果不其然，车来了，你跳上车，走你！车费要通过这个应用来收取，因此在司机和乘客之间不会有现金的转手。
Uber does what the best Internet companies do. It disrupts a business model that has existed for a very long time. In the case of Uber, that industry is the taxi business, which, almost everywhere, is highly regulated. Taxi drivers hate Uber. In many cities, they protest against it — or fight it in court. In some cities, a service like Uber’s is against the law.
优步做的是最好的互联网公司都在做的事情。它颠覆了一个存在已久的商业模式。被优步颠覆的是出租车行业，该行业在几乎所有地方都处于高度管制之下。出租车司机憎恨优步。他们在很多城市里都举行了反对优步的游行示威活动。
But, if you live in a place like New York City, Uber is a godsend. It is nearly impossible to get a cab in Manhattan when it is raining, or during the “shift change” that starts at around 4 o’clock or 5 o’clock in the afternoon, right when people are getting out of work and need a taxi most. There are only 14,000 or so yellow cabs in Manhattan, which is not nearly enough. Thanks to Uber, getting a ride someplace is much easier than it was before the company arrived on the scene.
但你如果住在纽约市这样的地方，优步就是福音了。在曼哈顿，如果赶上下雨或者从下午四五点钟开始的交接班时段——那恰好是人们下了班、最需要打车的时候——几乎不可能打到出租车。曼哈顿只有大约1.4万辆黄色出租车，根本不够用。有了优步，与该公司问世之前相比，在某些地方打车变得容易多了。
What’s more, unlike many start-ups, Uber appears to be a pretty well-run company. Though it is now five years old, it is already in more than 200 cities. It dominates the rival car services like Lyft. And it has a valuation of around $17 billion.
此外，不同于很多初创企业，优步的运营状况看起来相当不错。尽管刚刚成立五年，但它已经进入了200多个城市。面对Lyft等竞争对手，它在叫车服务领域占据着压倒性优势。
So how does all of that — the cleverness to come up with the idea, the skill to create the company, the discipline to make it work — square with the portrait of Uber that has emerged this week? It appears to be a company run by juveniles.
那么，想到这个点子所需要的聪明才智，创办这家公司所需要的技能，让公司顺利运转所需要的纪律性，所有这一切如何能和本周出炉的关于优步的报道对上号呢？它的经营者看起来不过是毛头小子。
On Monday, Ben Smith, the editor of Buzzfeed, published an article about a conversation he had had with Emil Michael, a top Uber executive, in which Michael suggested that Uber might do “opposition research” into the private lives of reporters, especially Sarah Lacy of Pando Daily, who has been a fierce critic of the company. Michael thought that he was speaking off the record, but even so. It’s the sort of revenge fantasy that one would expect a serious corporate executive to have outgrown.
新闻网站Buzzfeed的编辑本•史密斯(Ben Smith) 周一发表的一篇文章，提到了他和优步高管埃米尔•迈克尔(Emil Michael)的谈话，迈克尔在谈话中暗示，优步可能会进行“对手研究”，就一些记者的私生活展开调查，该公司的激烈批评者、《潘多日报》（Pando Daily）的莎拉•莱西(Sarah Lacy )被列为重点目标。迈克尔说话时不知道被录音了，但无论如何，人们绝对想不到，一个严肃的企业高管竟然怀有这类幼稚的复仇狂想。
The Buzzfeed article unleashed a torrent of other criticism about the company. Uber’s chief executive, Travis Kalanick, once told GQ magazine that the company should be called “Boober” because it made it so easy for him to get women. The company has reportedly run a dirty-tricks campaign against Lyft, including ordering rides that are then canceled, and trying to damage its ability to complete a round of financing. Uber has been rumored to track the rides of its customers, in violation of its own privacy rules. And so on. Peter Thiel, the well-known investor, has described Uber as the most “ethically challenged” company in Silicon Valley. (Thiel, it should be noted, has money in Lyft.)
Buzzfeed上的这篇文章让针对该公司的其他一些批评纷至沓来。优步的首席执行官特拉维斯•卡兰尼克(Travis Kalanick)曾告诉《GQ》杂志，这家公司应该被称作“妞步”，因为它让他不费吹灰之力就能泡到妞。据报道，优步还对Lyft使过阴招，包括先用Lyft叫车，再取消订单，以及设法搞破坏，不让Lyft顺利融资等。此外，一直有传言称，优步违反公司自身的隐私条款，追踪顾客的行程。凡此种种，不一而足。知名投资人彼得•泰尔(Peter Thiel)把优步称为硅谷地区遭受最多“道德质疑”的公司。（需要注意的是，泰尔给Lyft投了钱。）
Part of the problem is that, to an unusual degree, Uber has an “us-versus-them” mentality. That attitude manifests itself when the company is fighting taxi regulations or other obstacles the taxi establishment places in its path. But it also seeps into the way it views everyone it comes into contact with, including journalists.
这在一定程度上是因为，优步有着超乎寻常的“非我即敌”的心态。这种心态会在优步与出租车行业的监管规定对抗、奋力清除该领域的反对势力为其设置的其他路障之时显露出来。但它也影响着该公司和包括记者在内的所有人打交道的方式。
But part of it is that there simply isn’t anybody in Silicon Valley willing to tell Uber’s principals to grow up. They have a hot company that is disrupting an outmoded industry — and, therefore, they are lionized, not matter how boorish their behavior. They are like the star football player at State U. who can get away with anything because he scores touchdowns on Saturday. Engineering talent and business savvy don’t necessarily impute maturity.
另一部分原因是，在硅谷，根本没有谁愿意去告诉优步的领导者别太孩子气。他们拥有一家颠覆了一个传统行业的热门公司，并因此受到追捧，没人在乎他们的行为举止有多粗野。他们就好像是州立大学的那个明星橄榄球员，无论做了什么错事都不用负责任，因为周六在赛场上触地得分了。工程方面的才华和经营头脑并不一定和成熟挂钩。
One of the smartest things Google’s founders did was hire Eric Schmidt, a technology veteran, to be the chief executive until one founder, Larry Page, felt he was ready to run the company. Ditto for Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder, who hired Sheryl Sandberg to give the company the ballast he wasn’t ready to provide.
谷歌(Google)创始人做过的最明智的一件事，是请科技业老将埃里克•施密特(Eric Schmidt)担任首席执行官，直到该公司创始人之一拉里•佩奇(Larry Page)觉得自己做好了执掌大局的准备。Facebook创始人马克•扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)也是如此，他聘用的雪莉•桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)，为该公司注入了老成持重的气质——这一点是他当初无法做到的。