PARIS — A run of bad news for Uber continued on Tuesday, when Spain and Thailand ordered the ride-sharing service to cease operations in the two countries.
巴黎——Uber近日接连收到坏消息，西班牙和泰国在周二命令该搭车服务公司停止在这两个国家的运营。
In Madrid, a commercial court judge sided with a taxi association complaint, saying that Uber must cease driving in Spain until a lawsuit contesting its right to operate can be heard. In Bangkok, the Thai transport authorities ordered Uber to shut down after finding that its drivers lacked the registration and insurance needed to operate commercial vehicles, Reuters reported.
在马德里，一名商事法庭法官支持出租车协会的控诉，称在一桩挑战Uber运营权的诉讼案件获得审理前，该公司必须停止在西班牙的运营。据路透社(Reuters)报道，在曼谷，泰国交通管理机构发现Uber司机没有按照商用车辆运营规定，进行登记注册和购买保险，因此要求该公司暂停营业。
Just one day earlier, officials in New Delhi, the Indian capital, ordered Uber to cease its operations there after one of its drivers was accused of raping a passenger.
就在一天之前，印度首都新德里的官员要求Uber停止在印度的运营。此前，一名Uber司机被控强奸乘客。
Also on Monday, a Dutch appeals court upheld that Uber drivers who transport passengers without a taxi license are violating Dutch law. The court said the company would be subject to immediate fines if it continued to operate its UberPop service, which enables any licensed driver with a car and Uber-issued device to pick up passengers.
一家荷兰上诉法院也在周一作出裁决，称Uber司机在没有获得出租车执照的情况下搭载乘客，违反了荷兰法律。该法庭称，如果Uber继续提供UberPop服务，该公司会立即遭到罚款。UberPop使得任何拥有驾照及Uber分发的装置的司机都可以搭载乘客。
Uber, which is based in San Francisco, said in a statement Tuesday that the Madrid judge’s ruling was “inconsistent with broad political acknowledgment in Spain and across the European Union on the benefits of sharing economy services.'’
总部位于旧金山的Uber周二发表声明称，马德里法官的裁定与西班牙及欧盟国家政府对分享型经济服务公司带来的益处的广泛认可存在矛盾。
“We’ll defend ourselves in anyway we can legally,” Susanne Elias-Stulemeijer, an Uber spokeswoman in London added in a phone interview. She said that the company had yet to be contacted by the Spanish judge. “But first we need to see the official document."
“我们将竭尽所能，利用法律捍卫我们的利益，”Uber驻伦敦的女发言人苏珊·伊莱亚斯-斯杜尔梅捷尔(Susanne Elias-Stulemeijer)接受电话采访时说。她表示，西班牙法官尚未联系该公司。“但首先，我们需要看到官方文件。”
Uber is the most visible of a number of companies that are using smartphone technology to reinvent the taxi business. Clients use the app to hail a ride from ordinary car owners who have signed up to shuttle passengers.
在很多利用智能手机技术颠覆出租车行业的公司中，Uber是最引人注意的一个。用户通过这款应用可以使用普通车主提供的服务，这些车主签约提供运送乘客的服务。
The nascent service has grown at a phenomenal rate, and done so with virtually no regulation. But its success — the company has been valued by investors at an eye-popping $40 billion and before the recent problems was operating in more than 200 cities around the world — has put Uber in the sights of public officials on various continents, sometimes because of resistance from entrenched operators, and sometimes because of concerns about the service’s approach to labor and safety rules.
这种新兴的服务几乎不受管控，飞速发展。Uber的估值已经达到400亿美元（2478亿元人民币），令人震惊，在最近遭遇麻烦之前，该公司已在世界上200多个国家开展业务。Uber的成功使它受到各个国家政府工作人员的关注，有时是因为遭到老牌运营商的抵制，有时是因为该公司对劳工及安全规定的态度引发了担忧。
The company has even run into resistance on its home turf of the United States, one of the most freewheeling markets for disruptive technologies. On Monday, the city government of Portland, Ore., said it would sue to stop the company from operating.
Uber甚至在它的主场地盘——美国也遭到了抵制，对于颠覆性的技术来说，美国是最大的自由市场之一。周一，俄勒冈州波特兰市政府表示，他们将提起诉讼，阻止该公司继续运营。
Europe is one of Uber’s fastest-growing markets; consumers have embraced it as an alternative to the guildlike taxi services that in many cities place low priority on customer service.
对于Uber来说，欧洲是发展最快的市场之一；消费者把它当做代替行会式出租车服务公司的选择，这些公司在很多城市不太注重用户服务。
Even before the Dutch and Spanish actions, Uber was finding the terrain inhospitable. A Frankfurt court in September barred UberPop from operating in Germany, the largest market on the Continent, until a case could be heard on its compliance with competition rules.
甚至在荷兰及西班牙采取举措之前，Uber就发现该地区不太友好。法兰克福的一家法院在今年9月判定，在就该公司是否遵守竞争规则举行听证会前，禁止UberPop在德国运营，而德国是欧洲大陆上最大的市场。