SAN FRANCISCO — Jan Koum fled the former Soviet Union with his mother when he was 16, leaving his father behind. He worked in the engineering trenches for a decade at Yahoo before starting out on his own. When he was a young man growing up in Mountain View, Calif., his family relied on food stamps to get by.
旧金山——扬·库姆(Jan Koum)16岁时和母亲离开了前苏联，只有父亲留在了那里。在自行创业之前，他在雅虎(Yahoo)的开发部门工作了10年。当他还是一个年轻小伙子的时候，他们一家在加州山景城曾靠食品券维生。
Now Mr. Koum, the co-founder of WhatsApp, is a billionaire several times over and a business partner with Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook chief who, in many ways, is his polar opposite. Mr. Zuckerberg, 29, who dropped out of Harvard en route to overnight riches, bought Mr. Koum’s mobile messaging company on Wednesday for at least $16 billion, betting big on an entrepreneur who does not follow the typical young-and-brash Silicon Valley playbook.
如今，作为WhatsApp的联合创始人，库姆的身家已经抵得上几个亿万富翁，同时还是Facebook首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)的商业伙伴。两人在很多方面天差地别。现年29岁的扎克伯格从哈佛(Harvard)辍学，随即拥有了大量财富。周三，他以至少160亿美元（约合人民币974亿元）的价格收购了库姆的移动讯息公司，在一个不符合硅谷典型的“年轻大胆”套路的创业者身上下了重注。
Mr. Koum, 38, and his co-founder, Brian Acton, prefer to operate lean and below the radar, with just 55 employees and a nondescript office. They despise advertising and value the privacy of their 450 million users so much that they do not even collect their names.
现年38岁的库姆和另一名联合创始人布莱恩·阿克顿(Brian Acton)更喜欢以简单而不引人注目的方式运营，他们只有55名员工，办公室看起来也不怎么正规。他们鄙视广告业务，格外重视其4.5亿用户的隐私，甚至都不收集用户的姓名信息。
Mr. Zuckerberg, by contrast, has built his immensely profitable empire by collecting reams of personal data on his 1.2 billion customers and using that to sell ads aimed at them.
相比之下，扎克伯格通过收集其12亿客户的大量个人信息，并利用这些数据发布有针对性的广告，建立了一个拥有强大营利能力的帝国。
Even as Facebook grows more corporate and more complicated to use, Mr. Koum and Mr. Acton, 42, are obsessively focused on just one thing: offering a simple, private, nearly free way for people to share text, photo and video messages with the people they care about.
在Facebook变得更商业化、使用也变得复杂的同时，库姆和42岁的阿克顿仍然偏执地专注于一件事：提供一种简单、私密、基本上免费的方式，方便人们与自己关心的人分享文本、照片和视频信息。
“You don’t want to get in the way of two people communicating,” Mr. Koum said last spring in an interview at WhatsApp’s headquarters in Mountain View.
去年春天，库姆在WhatsApp山景城总部接受采访时说，我们不想为人们的沟通制造麻烦。
“Imagine if I said, ‘Let’s stop for a second, let me pull down this slide. Would you like to see a preview of this game?’ ”
“想象一下，如果我现在说，‘停一下吧，让我把幻灯片拉下来。想不想看一个游戏的预告片？’”
After repeatedly insisting that he would not sell his company to an ad-driven behemoth like Facebook, Google or Yahoo, Mr. Koum has now reversed course.
在多次表示不愿意把公司卖给Facebook、谷歌或雅虎等以广告为动力的巨头之后，库姆改变了主意。
Mr. Koum offered little explanation for his change of heart on Wednesday during a conference call with Mr. Zuckerberg and Wall Street analysts to discuss the deal.
周三，在与扎克伯格和华尔街的分析师讨论这笔交易的电话会议上，库姆没有解释自己为何会改变心意。
“Facebook is a social network and offers many different and important functionalities than WhatsApp offers as a communication service, and we’re excited to benefit from the unique expertise, knowledge and infrastructure that Mark and the team have built out over the last decade,” he said.
他说，“Facebook是一家社交网络，和WhatsApp提供的沟通服务相比，提供了许多不同和重要的功能，我们将能够从马克和他的团队过去10年积累的独特的专长、知识和基础设施中获益，这让我们兴奋不已。”
Mr. Koum said WhatsApp would operate independently and would not offer advertising. Mr. Zuckerberg said that he wanted WhatsApp to focus on increasing the number of people who use it to one billion and that he would not pressure the company to add to its modest revenue from its dollar-a-year subscription fee anytime soon.
库姆说，WhatsApp将独立运营，不会提供广告业务。扎克伯格表示，他想要让WhatsApp集中精力把用户数量增加到10亿，而且他在短期内不会向这家公司施压，要求其放弃一年收取一美元订阅费用的做法，从而增加收入。
Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Koum and Mr. Acton declined interview requests on Thursday.
周四，库姆和阿克顿通过一名发言人拒绝了采访请求。
Mr. Koum and Mr. Zuckerberg do share a common ambition — to connect everyone in the world using their services.
不过，库姆和扎克伯格却有一个共同的宏伟目标——用自己的服务把世界上的所有人都联系起来。
“We want WhatsApp to be on every single smartphone,” Mr. Koum said last month during an onstage interview at the DLD conference in Munich. He expects five billion people to be using smartphones within the next decade, and he wants to serve every one.
库姆上个月在慕尼黑的数字生活设计大会(DLD)舞台上接受了采访，他说，“我们想要WhatsApp出现在每一台智能手机上。”他预计未来10年将有50亿人使用智能手机，他想要服务每一个人。
The inspiration for WhatsApp came after both founders left their jobs at Yahoo in 2007 and took some time off. Mr. Acton moved to New York to live with his girlfriend (and at one point proclaimed on Twitter that he had applied for a job at Facebook and been rejected). Mr. Koum did some traveling to Argentina and other countries and realized that it was difficult to stay in touch with friends.
WhatsApp的灵感是两名创始人在2007年离开雅虎并休息了一段时间之后产生的。阿克顿辞职后搬到了纽约，和女朋友住在一起（他曾在Twitter上说，自己申请了Facebook的职位，但遭到拒绝。）库姆则去了阿根廷等国家旅游，他发现，自己很难与朋友们保持联系。
International area codes made it difficult for people to call him. Email was simple, but it was not as streamlined as a text message. Text messages, however, were expensive, costing at least 25 cents for each one sent from Europe to the United States. And online chat services from Google and AOL required knowing people’s screen names.
因为国际区号不同，朋友很难给他打电话。电子邮件简单，但没有短信便捷。可短信又太贵，从欧洲向美国发一条短信至少要25美分。使用谷歌和AOL的网上聊天服务需要知道对方的网名。
Two years later, Mr. Koum returned to the United States, bought an iPhone and reunited with Mr. Acton to build WhatsApp. The service would take advantage of a phone’s address book to make it as streamlined as text messaging, and it would be nearly free like other Internet messaging services.
两年后，库姆回到美国，买了一部iPhone，与阿克顿一起制作了WhatsApp。这项服务将利用手机的通讯录，让通讯变得像短信一样流畅，而且它将像其他网络信息服务一样几乎免费。
Privacy was vital. “For us, everything is built around us knowing as little as possible about the user and what they do on our network,” Mr. Koum said at the Munich conference.
隐私很重要。库姆在慕尼黑的会议上说，“对于我们来说，每件事的基础就是尽量少地了解用户信息，以及他们在我们的网络上做什么。”
“I grew up in a country where I remember my parents not being able to have a conversation on the phone,” he explained. “The walls had ears and you couldn’t speak freely.”
“我记得在我成长的国家，我的父母甚至无法通过电话进行交流，”他解释道。“隔墙有耳，你根本无法畅所欲言。”
Just as important to the founders, who share a hippie ethos and distaste for cutthroat capitalism, was the business model.
对两位有嬉皮士气质、对残酷的资本主义感到厌恶的创始人来说，同样十分重要的还有商业模式。
Instead of financing the service with ads and games like other services free to draw eyeballs to advertisements, Mr. Koum and Mr. Acton made WhatsApp a free software download that would charge a nominal fee after the first year. They would make the app usable on a broad range of smartphones, from dated BlackBerrys, which they both still use for texting, to sleek new Android phones and iPhones, so that people rich and poor all over the globe could take advantage of the service.
许多服务都会依靠广告和游戏来提供资金，它们能够自由地为广告吸引眼球，而库姆和阿克顿却让人们能够免费下载WhatsApp软件，并在第一年后象征性地收取一定费用。他们让这款应用能够用于多款智能手机，从过时的黑莓(BlackBerrys)——二人仍在用黑莓手机发短信，到时尚的新Android手机和iPhones，这样世界各地的人们，不论贫富就都能使用这项服务了。
Those early decisions allowed the company to remain small and independent and lean even as the app took off in several parts of the world, especially Europe. Users enjoyed the simplicity and low cost of communicating with friends and family around the globe. And they also appreciated the privacy of a service that did not analyze or store their messages — a rarity in the Internet age.
这些早期的决定让公司得以保持小规模、独立和高效，虽然这个应用在世界上几个地区取得了重大发展，尤其是欧洲。用户喜欢用这种简单而价格低廉的方式与世界各地的朋友和家人交流。他们还非常欣赏服务的隐私性，该服务既不会分析也不会储存他们的讯息——这在互联网时代很少见。
Jim Goetz, a partner at Sequoia Ventures, the venture capital firm that invested $60 million in WhatsApp, compared Mr. Koum and Mr. Acton to the founders of YouTube, the video service that Sequoia also funded before it was bought by Google.
红杉投资公司(Sequoia Ventures)的合伙人吉姆·戈茨(Jim Goetz)把库姆和阿克顿与YouTube的创始人进行了比较。作为一家风投机构，红杉投资向WhatsApp投了6000万美元，也曾在视频网站YouTube被谷歌(Google)收购前为它提供资金。
“They’re both mavericks. They’re both independent thinkers,” Mr. Goetz said. “Like many of the best entrepreneurs we’ve been affiliated with, they were driven and focused on building something for themselves.”
“他们都是特立独行者。他们是独立的思想家，”戈茨说。“与许多曾与我们打交道的最出色的创业者一样，他们的动力和关注点在于为自己创造一些东西。”
Unlike Snapchat, another messaging service that Facebook flirted with buying last year, WhatsApp’s messages are intended to offer a permanent record of life’s conversations. Mr. Acton and his family, for example, use the service to share photos and videos of his baby.
与Facebook去年曾考虑收购的信息服务公司Snapchat不同，WhatsApp希望这些讯息成为一份生活对话的永久记录。例如，阿克顿和他的家人就在通过这项服务分享他孩子的照片与视频。
In the interview last summer, the founders said they were happy with the success of WhatsApp, which then had a mere 30 employees and 300 million active monthly users, exceeding Twitter, a service designed for the public broadcasting of short messages.
创始人在去年的采访中说，他们对WhatsApp感到开心，当时公司只有30名员工，每月有3亿名的活跃用户，超过了Twitter——一个用来公开发布短消息的服务网站。
They were also firm on never wanting to sell their company.
他们还表达了不出售公司的坚定立场。
“Facebook and Google, Cisco and Apple, and all those companies, they never sold,” Mr. Koum said. “They always took on the path of independent companies and marched them forward and that’s what we want to do. We want to be as good or as great as those companies.”
“Facebook、谷歌、思科(Cisco)和苹果(Apple)这些公司是永远不会出售的，”库姆说。“他们总是会走上独立公司的道路，然后超过他们，我们也想这么做。我们想与这些公司一样棒，或者说一样伟大。”