NEW DELHI — New Delhi’s air is the most polluted in the world, according to an international report that quantifies pollution levels, confirming findings by experts confounded by the lack of attention to the city’s problem.
新德里——一份对污染程度进行了量化的国际报告显示，新德里是全世界空气污染最严重的城市，这证实了一些专家的研究结果。而新德里对该问题缺乏重视的程度令这些专家感到惊愕。
The findings by the World Health Organization, released on Wednesday, show that the cities ranking second through fourth are also in India, in the central Hindi belt.
世界卫生组织（World Health Organization，简称WHO）本周三公布的调查结果显示，排名第二至第四位的也是印度城市，位于中部的“印度教环带”(Hindi belt)。
For years, experts have wondered why so much international attention has focused on air pollution in Beijing when some say conditions are as bad or even worse in South Asia.
多年来，专家们一直感到奇怪，为什么当有人说南亚的状况和北京一样糟糕，甚至更糟的时候，全球仍然把这么多的注意力聚焦在了北京的空气污染上。
“I am shocked at the extent of the problem they found in India,” said Dr. Sundeep Salvi, the director of the Chest Research Foundation in Pune, India. “This is incredibly bad, and there is a complete lack of awareness about it both amongst policy makers and the common man.”
“在印度，他们发现的这个问题的严重程度让我感到震惊，”印度浦那胸科研究基金会(Chest Research Foundation)的主任桑蒂普·萨尔维(Sundeep Salvi)博士说。“这太糟糕了，政策制定者和普通人完全缺乏这方面的意识。”
On Thursday in New Delhi, air pollution monitors measured levels of PM 2.5 — the small particles considered among the most dangerous for lung health — exceeding 350 micrograms per cubic meter of air. That was one of the highest levels recorded in Asia on Thursday, and twice as high as Beijing’s peak for the morning.
本周四，在新德里，空气污染监测器测得的PM2.5——被认为对肺健康威胁最大的小颗粒物——浓度超过了每立方米350微克。这是本周四在亚洲录得的最高数据之一，比美国驻华使馆发布的北京污染数据在早晨的峰值高出一倍。
PM 2.5 refers to particulate matter less than 2.5 micrometers in diameter, which is believed to pose the greatest health risk because it penetrates deeply into lungs.
PM2.5指的是直径小于2.5微米的颗粒物，由于可以渗透到肺部深处，被认为是最大的健康风险。
In Beijing, a pollution level as high as Delhi’s would most likely have caused widespread concern. But in Delhi, almost no one seemed to notice. Few people here wear the filter masks that have been appearing on the streets of Beijing, and even among the wealthy, few own air purifiers, which are used widely in East Asia, because few are even aware of the problem.
在北京，如果出现了像德里这么高的污染水平，极有可能引起广泛关注。但在德里，却好像几乎没有人注意到。由于意识到这个问题存在的人都很少，这里极少有人佩戴北京街头常见的过滤口罩，即便在富人之中，拥有空气净化器的人也寥寥无几。但在东亚地区，空气净化器得到了广泛使用。
India is in the midst of national elections, but air pollution is rarely mentioned by leading politicians. At a recent embassy party here, several people expressed astonishment that New Delhi’s air was considered dangerous. One of the guests, a marathon runner who jogs through Delhi’s streets daily, said she had never noticed any problem with the air.
印度正在进行全国大选，但主流政客很少提及空气污染问题。最近在这里的大使馆举行的聚会中，有几个人对新德里的空气被认为很危险的说法表示了惊讶。有位客人是马拉松运动员，每天在德里的街道上跑步，她说自己从来没有注意过和空气有关的任何问题。
The W.H.O. report, which examined pollution levels in nearly 1,600 cities in 91 countries for the years 2008 to 2013, found that the annual mean for PM 2.5 concentrations in Delhi was 153 micrograms per cubic meter. The cities of Patna, Gwalior and Raipur followed Delhi for the worst air pollution readings. Delhi’s reading was almost three times that of Beijing, whose annual mean in the report was 59. An article in The New York Times in January reporting that PM 2.5 levels in Delhi were at least twice as bad as Beijing’s led to weeks of pollution headlines in India’s largest newspapers and fierce denials by government officials. Gufran Beig of India’s state-run System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research said Thursday in an interview that the annual mean provided for Delhi in the W.H.O. report was incorrect.
WHO的报告考察了91个国家近1600个城市从2008年到2013年的污染程度，结果发现：德里的年平均PM2.5浓度为每立方米153微克。印度城市巴特那、瓜廖尔和赖布尔紧随德里之后，高居空气污染最严重的城市前列。德里的污染值几乎是北京的三倍，后者的年平均值为59。《纽约时报》今年1月的的一篇文章称，德里的PM2.5浓度至少是北京两倍，结果污染问题在此后数周内登上了印度最大报纸的头条，但政府官员对此予以了强烈否认。印度官方机构空气质量天气预报与研究系统(System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research)的古夫兰·贝格(Gufran Beig)本周四接受采访时表示，WHO报告提供的印度年平均值是错的。
“Our levels are comparable with those of other cities,” he said. “Delhi’s air quality is better than Beijing’s in summer and much better in monsoon season.”
“我们的污染水平和其他城市差不多，”他说。“在夏季，新德里的空气质量比北京好，在季风季节更是远远优于北京。”
A host of other officials, including the chairman of the Central Pollution Control Board, were either unavailable for comment on Thursday or said they were not authorized to speak publicly on the issue.
其他一些官员，包括印度中央污染控制管理委员会(Central Pollution Control Board)主席，要么本周四无法联系到予以置评，要么表示他们没有获得授权，无法在这个问题上公开发言。
Air pollution killed about seven million people globally in 2012, making it the world’s biggest environmental health risk, the W.H.O. reported last month. About 80 percent of those deaths came from heart attacks and strokes, although air pollution also increases lung cancer deaths.
WHO上月表示，2012年，空气污染在全球导致大约700万人丧生，因而成了世界上最大的环境健康风险。其中约80%的人死于心肌梗塞和中风，不过空气污染也会导致肺癌死亡人数增加。
Dr. Carlos Dora, the coordinator of health and environment at the W.H.O., said most Asians should be concerned.
WHO健康与环境协调员卡洛斯·多拉(Carlos Dora)博士说，大多数亚洲人都应该关注这个问题。