The World Health Organization declared the Zika virus and its suspected link to birth defects an international public health emergency on Monday, a rare move that signals the seriousness of the outbreak and gives countries powerful new tools to fight it.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)周一宣布，兹卡病毒及其与一些先天缺陷之间可能的关联，已经构成国际关注的突发公共卫生事件。这种少见的举动显示了兹卡疫情的严重性，并为各国提供了强有力的新工具来与之对抗。
An outbreak of the Zika virus, which is transmitted by mosquitoes, was detected in Brazil last May and has since moved into more than 20 countries in Latin America. The main worry is over the virus’s possible link to microcephaly, a condition that causes babies to be born with brain damage and unusually small heads. Reported cases of microcephaly are rising sharply in Brazil, ground zero for the disease, though researchers have yet to establish a direct link.
兹卡病毒(Zika)主要由蚊子传播，巴西去年5月检测到了这种病毒，疫情蔓延到了拉丁美洲的20多个国家。主要令人担心的地方是，这种病毒可能与婴儿小头症(microcephaly)存在联系，会导致婴儿脑损伤和小颅畸形。巴西目前是婴儿小头症爆发的中心地带，报告病例正在急剧增加，但研究人员尚未确定兹卡和它之间的直接联系。
At a news conference in Geneva, Dr. Margaret Chan, the director general of the W.H.O, said that clusters of microcephaly in regions with Zika cases “constitute an extraordinary event and a public health threat to other parts of the world.”
在日内瓦举行的新闻发布会上，世界卫生组织总干事陈冯富珍博士(Dr. Margaret Chan)说，兹卡疫情地带大量出现婴儿小头症患者，“这构成了一个非同寻常的事件，对世界其他地区形成了公共卫生威胁。”
She added that “international reponse is needed to minimize the threat in infected countries and reduce risk of international spread.” Dr. Chan said case control studies on the connection between Zika and microcephaly will start in the next two weeks.
她还表示，“国际社会需要对此做出反应，在爆发兹卡的国家把威胁降到最低程度，并减少国际传播的风险。”陈冯富珍说，兹卡和婴儿小头症之间联系的病例对照研究将在未来两周内启动。
The official “emergency” designation can trigger action and funding from governments and non-profits around the world. It elevates the W.H.O. to the position of global coordinator, and gives its decisions the force of international law. The agency is trying to cast itself as a global leader to revive its reputation after a faltering response during the Ebola epidemic in West Africa.
官方正式宣布该疫情属于“突发公共卫生事件”，可以引发世界各地政府和非营利组织的行动和资金投入。此举让世卫组织处在了全球协调机构的位置，它做出的决定也具有了国际法的效力。该机构之前在西非爆发埃博拉疫情时应对不力，现在它正在试图发挥全球领导者的作用，努力重振声誉。
“Can you imagine if we do not do all this work now and wait until all these scientific evidence to come out, people will say why didn’t you take action?” Dr. Chan said.
“如果我们现在不开展这些工作，一直等到充分的科学证据出现，大家会说你们为什么不采取措施，这种情况你能想象吗？”陈冯富珍说。
The current outbreak of Zika has taken the world by surprise. It was first identified in 1947 in Uganda, and for years lived mostly in monkeys. But last May in Brazil, cases began increasing drastically. The W.H.O. has estimated that four million people could be infected by the end of the year. It is spreading fast in the Americas because people there have not developed immunity.
目前的兹卡蔓延状况令世人始料未及。这种病毒最早是1947年在乌干达发现的，多年来主要在猴子间传播。但是从去年5月开始，巴西的兹卡病例急剧增加。据世卫组织估计，到今年年底可能会有400万人感染。在美洲，兹卡疫情正在迅速蔓延，因为那里的人还没有对兹卡形成免疫力。
The W.H.O. has declared a public health emergency three times since 2007, when it first established the procedure — for the influenza panademic in 2009; in 2014 when polio seemed resurgent; and in August 2014 for Ebola. Some experts applauded the decision to add Zika to the list.
相关程序2007年首次制定以来，世卫组织已三次宣布突发公共卫生事件，分别是2009年的流感大流行、2014年似有复苏之势的脊髓灰质炎和2014年8月的埃博拉。一些专家对于把兹卡列为突发公共卫生事件的决定表示称赞。
“This should be a global wake up call,” said Lawrence O. Gostin, director of the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law at Georgetown University. But he added: “The main question on my mind is whether they will back up their words with decisive action.”
“这应该是对全球的一个警告，”乔治城大学奥尼尔国家与全球卫生法研究所(O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law at Georgetown University)主任劳伦斯·O·戈斯坦(Lawrence O. Gostin)说。但他接着表示：“我头脑里的主要问题是，他们会不会采取切实的行动证明自己说的话。”
Zika’s rapid rise and the specter of associated birth defects have major implications in a warm region with struggling economies and vast flows of tourists. Brazil is preparing to host the Olympics this summer, and Zika is complicating those plans. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has advised pregnant Americans to avoid travel to the region.
在一个经济举步维艰且有大量游客涌入的温暖地区，兹卡的迅速蔓延，以及像幽灵一样萦绕在周围的先天畸形，会产生重大影响。巴西正在筹备将于今年夏天主办的奥运会，兹卡让这些计划变得复杂。美国疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)已经建议该国的孕妇避免前往该地区。
Still, American officials have taken pains to underscore that the virus does not pose a major threat to the United States, where mosquito control efforts are robust and effective.
但美国官员仍极力强调，兹卡病毒不会对蚊患控制举措稳健、有效的美国构成重大威胁。
But now that an emergency has been declared, the W.H.O. can issue global travel advisories, and crucially, coordinate global efforts to combat the mosquitoes that spread Zika, a role that is badly needed as mosquito populations are fluid and know no boundaries. The agency will also help coordinate surveillance efforts, including tracking and tallying cases of Zika and microcephaly.
但现在，宣布为突发事件后，世卫组织便能发布全球出行建议。至关重要的是，该组织可以在全球协调消灭传播兹卡病毒的蚊子的行动。现在非常需要该组织的这种作用，因为蚊虫是流动的，且边界无法阻拦。该机构还会参与协调监控行动，包括追踪和记录兹卡病例和小头症病例。
The last time the W.H.O. declared a public health emergency was when Ebola was tearing through West Africa. But the agency was strongly criticized for weighing in very late, and many global health experts said it was unlikely that the agency’s director, Dr. Chan, would let that happen again.
世卫组织上次宣布国际突发公共卫生事件，是埃博拉在西非肆虐的时候。但因为介入得非常晚，该机构受到了强烈的指责，很多全球卫生专家称，世卫总干事陈冯富珍不太可能会让这种情况再发生。
“The W.H.O. took a very serious hit to their reputation,” said Dr. Ron Waldman, a professor of global health at the Milken School of Public Health at George Washington University. “They do have to be mindful of the politics, but they have to get the science right, too. They don’t have much room for slip-ups.”
“世界卫生组织的声誉严重受挫，”乔治·华盛顿大学米尔肯公共卫生学院(Milken School of Public Health at George Washington University)全球卫生教授罗恩·瓦尔德曼(Ron Waldman)说。“他们的确要当心政治，但他们也要做出正确的科学论断。他们没有太多出错的余地。”