Microsoft’s plans to retire its Windows XP operating system have raised concerns in China, which has been slow to upgrade its computers.
微软让Windows XP退役的计划，已经在电脑操作系统升级缓慢的中国引起了担忧。
Microsoft says it will no longer be offering technical support or security patches for Windows XP after April 8, and it is encouraging users to upgrade to newer operating systems, such as Windows 8.
微软表示，4月8日之后将不再为Windows XP提供技术支持和安全补丁，此举是为了促使用户升级到Windows 8等较新的操作系统。
Although the percentage of computers running Windows XP in China is declining ahead of Microsoft’s deadline, it’s still quite high. As of January, 49 percent of Chinese computers were using the 12-year-old operating system, according to StatCounter, an analysis firm. That compares with less than 18 percent worldwide and less than 11 percent in the United States.
在微软的最后期限到来前，中国运行Windows XP电脑的比例虽然在下降，但仍然处在较高水平。分析公司StatCounter的数据显示，截至1月份，中国仍有49%的电脑在使用这种有12年历史的操作系统。相比之下，这个数字在全球范围内不到18%，在美国低于11%。
Experts say the pervasiveness of software piracy in China, though it has tapered off in recent years, means that computer users are unenthusiastic about shelling out for upgrades.
专家们说，中国盗版软件泛滥，这意味着电脑用户对花钱升级系统缺乏热情。不过盗版现象最近几年在逐渐减少。
In China, the official retail price for Windows 8 is 988 renminbi, or about $160, for the basic version and 1,988 renminbi, or about $325, for the professional version, though discounted prices are widely available.
在中国，Windows 8标准版的官方零售价是988元，专业版是1988元，不过基本上都会提供折扣。
China’s efforts nearly a decade ago to promote the use of legitimate software were a boon to the fortunes of Microsoft, which had struggled with widespread copying of its products. The government took steps to ensure that its own computers were not using pirated software and introduced rules that new machines had to have pre-installed, licensed operating systems.
中国近十年前推进的软件正版化活动，给微软的财运带来了福音，在那以前微软产品遭到大量盗版，令该公司焦头烂额。中国政府采取措施，确保政府自己的电脑没有使用盗版软件，此外还推出了新设备必须预装有授权的操作系统的规定。
Beijing argues that Microsoft’s push to wean users off Windows XP and onto newer operating systems could harm its antipiracy efforts. In December, Yan Xiaohong, the deputy director of the National Copyright Administration, told a representative of BSA: The Software Alliance, an industry trade group, that Microsoft’s decision to end support for Windows XP meant that Chinese consumers were facing grave security risks and that efforts to reduce software piracy would be undermined, because users would balk at the cost of upgrading their operating systems, according to a report in Legal Daily, a newspaper run by the Chinese Ministry of Justice.
中国官方认为，微软推动用户从Windows XP系统转移到较新的操作系统上，可能不利于中国的反盗版行动。去年12月，中国司法部下属的《法制日报》报道，中国版权局副局长阎晓宏对软件行业协会“商业软件联盟”(BSA: The Software Alliance)的一名代表说，微软终止对Windows XP提供支持，会使用户的电脑面临严重的安全威胁，影响了软件正版化工作在中国的顺利开展，因为升级操作系统的费用会让用户望而却步。
But those costs are part of the reason why Microsoft is unlikely to back down on its plan to phase out Windows XP. Erwin Visser, senior director within Microsoft’s Windows division, said last year that moving users off Windows XP was a $32 billion service opportunity for its commercial partners, ZDNet reported.
但这些费用正是微软不太可能放弃Windows XP退役计划的部分原因。ZDNet报道称，微软Windows部门高级主管埃尔温·维瑟(Erwin Visser)去年曾表示，对其商业合作伙伴来说，让用户从Windows XP系统升级的服务机会价值高达320亿美元（约合1963亿元人民币）。
The pressure for Chinese users to upgrade their systems has also revived longstanding concerns within China about United States government agencies using hidden security flaws in software developed by American companies for surveillance purposes.
中国用户面临的系统升级压力，也令中国长期存在的一些担忧再次表现出来。他们担心美国政府机构利用美国公司开发的软件中所隐藏的安全漏洞，开展监听活动。
Ni Guangnan, a computer scientist at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, said that Windows 8 would leave users open to security threats and urged Chinese government agencies and important industries not to adopt it because of the risk of American intrusions, according to Global Times, a newspaper run by the Communist Party-owned People’s Daily Group. Microsoft allows China and other countries to examine its source code and offer their own substitutions to ease concerns about vulnerabilities.
中国共产党机关报《人民日报》下属的《环球时报》报道，中国科学院计算所研究员倪光南称，使用Windows 8容易遭受安全威胁，他还呼吁中国政府机构和重要行业不要采用Windows 8，以防止美国开展网络入侵。为了缓解用户对漏洞的担忧，微软允许中国和其他国家检查它的源代码，并用自己的代码进行替换。
Chinese technology firms say they plan to help users with some of the difficulties they will face with the changeover. Tencent, Kingsoft, Sogou and others will provide technical assistance with security problems and operating system upgrades, services they expect could be needed for the next two or three years, the state news agency Xinhua reported. “The upcoming shutdown will seriously affect Chinese users,” Ding Ke, a senior manager of Tencent, a major Chinese Internet portal, told Xinhua.
中国的一些科技公司表示，他们打算帮助用户减少其在过渡期间面临的困难。中国官方通讯社新华社报道，腾讯、金山、搜狗等公司将提供跟安全问题和操作系统升级有关的技术援助，他们预计用户将在未来两到三年的时间中需要这些服务。中国知名互联网门户腾讯公司的高管丁珂告诉新华社记者，“微软即将停止服务，这会对中国用户造成严重影响。”