Even compared with other self-serious superhero franchises — the brooding “Dark Knight” saga, the agonized “Amazing Spider-Man,” the hectic “Avengers” house party — the X-Men series wears its allegorical heart on its sleeve. In chronicling the adventures of a despised minority with extraordinary powers, the movies, like the Marvel comic books before them, poke around in some interesting social and political hot zones. The central conflict is the endless moral and political argument between Professor X and Magneto: in other words, between the accommodationist idea that the mutants should fight for the moral redemption of the humans, and the militant insistence that they should defend their own interests by any means necessary.
《X战警》(X-Men)系列即便和其他过分认真的超级英雄大片相比——充满沉思色彩的《黑暗骑士》(Dark Knight)系列、令人痛苦的《超凡蜘蛛侠》(Amazing Spider-Man)、狂热的《复仇者联盟》(Avengers)，它的寓言色彩都相当明显。这个系列的电影和之前的漫威(Marvel)漫画书一样，记录了一个受人鄙弃却拥有超凡力量的弱势群体的冒险故事，也涉及一点有趣的社会和政治热点问题。其核心冲突是X教授与万磁王之间没完没了的道德与政治争论：换句话说，一方是妥协主义者，认为变种人应当为人类的道德救赎而奋斗，另一方则好战地主张变种人应当不择手段地捍卫自身利益。
“X-Men: Days of Future Past,” directed (like most of its predecessors) by Bryan Singer, situates this struggle in the 1970s, though how it arrives in that era is a bit complicated. The main action, which takes place around the Paris peace talks that ended the Vietnam War, is framed by an apocalyptic battle in the distant future. A bunch of familiar mutants, including Professor X and Magneto (played as older men by Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen) are under siege by the Sentinels, fearsome, human-designed robots that descend from coffin-shaped airships and that seem to have neutralized any genetic advantage the mutants might have had.
《X战警：逆转未来》(X-Men: Days of Future Past)和其大多数前作一样，由布莱恩·辛格(Bryan Singer)导演，它把这场斗争的背景放在20世纪70年代，不过斗争来到这个时代的方式有些复杂。主要剧情由遥远的未来一场末世大战所决定，围绕着越南战争结束后的巴黎和平谈判展开。一群我们熟悉的变种人被人类设计的可怕机器人“哨兵”围攻，其中也包括X教授与万磁王（两人的老年版分别由帕特里克·斯图尔特[Patrick Stewart]和伊恩·麦克莱恩[Ian McKellen]饰演），机器人从棺材形状的飞船从天而降，似乎能令变种人可能拥有的基因优势不起作用。
The only hope is to send someone back in time to prevent the things from being invented, a journey that only Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) is strong enough to undertake. Assisted by Kitty Pryde (Ellen Page), he zips into the past and wakes up in a strange bed with a pretty companion beside him and Roberta Flack on the radio.
唯一的希望就是派人回到过去，阻止这种东西被发明出来，只有金刚狼罗根（休·杰克曼[Hugh Jackman]）足够强大，可以进行这次旅行。他在幻影猫凯蒂（艾伦·佩吉[Ellen Page]饰）的帮助下，穿越回到过去，在一张陌生的床上醒来，周围有一大群人，收音机里放着罗伯塔·弗拉克(Roberta Flack)的歌。
Wolverine’s task is, in effect, to get the band back together, which means rousing proto-Professor X, Charles Xavier (James McAvoy), from a drug-addicted malaise; springing proto-Magneto, Erik Lehnsherr (Michael Fassbender), from lockdown (he’s been blamed for the Kennedy assassination); and tracking down the elusive, shape-shifting, bright blue and super-angry Mystique (Jennifer Lawrence), also known as Raven. Crucial assistance is provided by the Beast (Nicholas Hoult) and a speedy teenager (Evan Peters) who will eventually become Quicksilver and who anchors a showstopping action sequence in the kitchen of the Pentagon.
金刚狼的任务实际上就是让变种人团结起来，也就是说，要把X教授的原型——查尔斯·泽维尔（Charles Xavier，詹姆斯·麦卡沃伊[James McAvoy]饰）从深陷毒瘾、萎靡不振中唤醒过来；把万磁王的原型埃里克·兰谢尔（Eric Lehnsherr，迈克尔·法斯宾德[Michael Fassbender]）从一级防范禁闭中解救出来（他被认为是谋杀肯尼迪的真凶）；还要寻找难以捉摸、擅长变形、一身亮蓝色衣服，暴躁易怒的魔形女（Mystique，詹妮弗·劳伦斯[Jennifer Lawrence]饰），她别名也叫乌鸦(Raven)。野兽（Beast，尼古拉斯·霍尔特[Nicholas Hoult]饰）和一个能快速移动的少年（埃文·彼得斯[Evan Peters]）提供了关键性的帮助，这个少年后来成了快银(Quicksilver)，他在五角大楼厨房内的一系列动作戏非常精彩。
Not every moment is quite so inspired as that one, an intricate, freeze-frame slapstick ballet that fuses the pop playfulness of the old comics with the latest digital gimmickry. Far less effective, for example, is a climactic bit in which the enraged Erik, having donned a helmet that pays incidental homage to Professor Chaos of “South Park,” levitates a sports stadium and plops it down on the White House lawn. This must have seemed like a good idea to someone, but, in practice, it seems, for both Magneto and Mr. Singer, like gratuitous, imagination-deficient grandstanding.
那一幕是一场错综复杂、带有定格场景的闹剧芭蕾，把老漫画的流行搞笑元素与最新的数码花招结合起来，但这部影片并不是每时每刻都像那场戏一样富于创意。比如说，愤怒的埃里克戴着向《南方公园》(South Park)里的混沌教授(Professor Chaos)致敬的头盔，令一座体育场漂浮起来，让它坠落在白宫草坪上，这场戏就没什么意思。有人可能会觉得是个好点子，但事实上，对于万磁王或者辛格来说，都像是毫无必要、缺乏想象力、讨好观众的花招。
And that, of course, is the big risk in a movie like this. So much has already been done, so much is supposedly demanded by fans, that any given installment in a multisequel enterprise can feel like the hysterical pursuit of diminishing returns. In the case of “Days of Future Past,” the plot is as overelaborate and muddled as some of the effects. The clever historical revisionism of “X-Men: First Class” (a high point in the series, along with “X2: X-Men United”) has given way to a more slapdash mix of period detail and clumsy anachronism.
当然，对于这样的电影来说，这种做法是最大的风险。很多东西已经被拍出来了，影迷在想当然地期待很多东西，在系列电影中，其中任何一部都像是在歇斯底里地追求递减的收益。在《逆转未来》中，情节和特效一样，过分刻意而且混乱。《X战警：第一战》(X-Men: First Class)里聪明的扭转历史变成了时代特征与笨拙的时代错误更为草率的混合（《X战警：第一战》与《X战警2》[X2: X-Men United]是这个系列的巅峰之作）。
The logic of the story — a time-travel pretzel that strains after the brain-teasing power of an old “Star Trek” episode — requires too many variables. The frantic crosscutting of the culminating battles, which take place simultaneously and also a half-century apart, requires too much thought on the part of the audience because it has received too little on the part of the filmmakers.
故事的逻辑——一个做时空旅行的家伙追求《星际迷航》某一集中那样挑战大脑的力量——依赖太多变量。最后的几场战役疯狂交错，同时发生，但其实相隔半个世纪，这需要观众费太多脑子，因为拍片者们根本就没怎么好好考虑。
But, as usual, the characters — and the performers playing them — step unto the breach to provide just enough wit and feeling to make “Days of Future Past” something other than a waste of a reasonable person’s time. The film has found an excellent villain in the person of Peter Dinklage, playing a mutant-hating arms manufacturer with the excellent name of Bolivar Trask.
但和往常一样，角色和演员们弥补了不足，提供了足够的聪明才智和情感，令《逆转未来》对于理性的观众来说不像是浪费时间。该片从彼得·丁拉基(Peter Dinklage)身上发掘出一个卓越的反派，他饰演一个仇恨变种人的军火制造者，拥有一个非凡的名字：玻利瓦尔·特拉斯科(Bolivar Trask)。
But the psychology of anti-mutant prejudice has never really been Mr. Singer’s main concern. The anger of the mutants remains the most interesting part of his “X-Men” movies, and the dramatic and emotional heart of the franchise. Each of the main mutants deals with it in a different way: Erik with icy, self-righteous fury; Charles with melancholy humanism; Mystique with an anarchist’s drive to mess things up; Wolverine with world-weary stoicism. The actors tackle the roles without winking or condescension, and it is nice to see them together again, however distracting the circumstances. They will, of course, return, since in the superhero world, as in the real one, some problems can never really be solved, only put to rest in between episodes.
但是仇恨变种人的偏见并不是辛格最关切的东西。变种人的愤怒才是他的《X战警》系列中最有趣的部分，也是这个系列中最有戏剧性、最感人的核心。每个主要的变种人角色都用不同的方式处理愤怒：埃里克是一种冷冰冰的、自以为是的愤怒；查尔斯是伤感的人道主义；魔形女是用无政府主义的方式把事情搞乱；金刚狼是用厌世的斯多葛主义。演员们在处理角色时毫无犹豫或傲慢，看到他们在一起演戏很棒，尽管背景因此而变得有些混乱。他们当然会归来，因为在超级英雄的世界里，乃至在现实的世界中，有些问题是永远不可能解决的，只有在每一集之间才能暂时平息。