NEW YORK — The vivid patterns were by Chikami Hayashi, the printmaker to the Japanese royal family. The graphic triple stripes could only be Adidas. And the whole was a show in 10-year celebration of Y-3 , the sports brand of Yohji Yamamoto.
纽约——那些生动的图案是出自日本皇室御用版画家Chikami Hayashi之手，而“三道杠”图案则只能是阿迪达斯。这整场秀，就是山本耀司(Yohji Yamamoto)的运动品牌“Y-3”的10周年纪念庆典。
“I feel that I am going back towards the future,” the Japanese designer said as he was congratulated backstage by David Beckham, who called the collaboration “pioneering” and said his own heart was “always in the shoes.”
“我感觉自己正回到未来，”这位日本设计师在后台接受大卫·贝克汉姆(David Beckham)的祝贺时这样说道。贝克汉姆称这是一次具有“开创性”的合作，并且说他自己的心“一直都在鞋子里”。
When the designer and the Adidas sportswear company first started working together, the digital 3-D projections in a flow of infinite colors that were used as the show backdrop had not even been invented. Yet some of the Yamamoto basics looked as fresh and modern now as they did then: short tennis skirts, with a patch of white pleats among the black; mesh dresses; men’s pants in full and calf length, and all kinds of soft and easy jackets from parkas to unconstructed linen blazers.
山本耀司与运动品牌阿迪达斯刚开始合作时，在这场秀的背景里所用到的那些色彩丰富的3D投影还没有被发明出来。不过，山本的一些基本设计，比如在黑色当中缝上一小块白色皱褶的网球短裤，还有网眼服、男装七分裤和长裤，以及从风雪大衣到无衬垫的亚麻运动夹克等各种柔软休闲的外套，如今看来依然像当初一样鲜活而富有现代感。
The ease with which Mr. Yamamoto paid homage to the Adidas stripes showed what a visually intelligent designer he is. There were not only stripes topping socks or marking a top; they also were made into graphic, geometric patterns that looked fresh and modern.
山本向阿迪达斯三道杠图案致敬时的自如，表明他是一个多么具有视觉灵性的设计师。三道杠不仅用在袜子和衣服的顶端，还被设计成平面的几何图案，看起来既鲜活又现代。
The color seeped in so subtly that first the negative/positive colors were infused with bright blue, then with patterns in orange and purple, opening out like flowers in bloom.
色彩的融合是如此地细腻巧妙。冷/暖色先是渗透进了明亮的浅蓝，然后又与橙色和紫色的图案搭配，如盛放的鲜花一般延展开来。
The shoes were also rich in imagination and variety, fulfilling the Japanese designer’s desire to make sportswear elegant — and suggesting that this collaboration could continue for an entire new decade.
鞋子也一样富于变化和想象力，体现了设计师让运动装也变得优雅的渴望。而这也预示着这场合作或许还会再持续10年。