The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria posted a video on Tuesday that it said showed the beheading of James Foley, an American journalist who was kidnapped in Syria nearly two years ago, according to a transcript released by the SITE Intelligence Group.
赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)公布的一份文字记录显示，伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria， 简称ISIS）于周二发布了一段视频，并称视频内容是斩首美国记者詹姆斯·福利(James Foley)的过程。福利于近两年前在叙利亚被绑架。
The authenticity of the video, which was posted on YouTube, could not be immediately verified, and a telephone call placed to Mr. Foley’s family was not immediately returned. YouTube later took down the four-minute, 40-second video.
这段视频被发布在了YouTube上，尚无法立即核实其真实性。记者致电福利的家人，但未能很快收到回电。稍后，YouTube撤下了这段时长4分40秒的视频。
Titled “A Message to America,” the video shows the journalist kneeling in a deserted landscaped, clad in an orange jumpsuit – an apparent reference to the uniforms worn by prisoners at the American military detention camp in Guantánamo, Cuba. Standing to his left is a masked ISIS fighter, who says that Foley’s execution is in retaliation for the American airstrikes ordered by President Obama against the extremist group in Iraq. “I call on my friends, family and loved ones to rise up against my real killers - the U.S. government — for what will happen to me is only a result of their complacent criminality,” Mr. Foley says in the video, which was uploaded to the online account of the al-Furqan Media Foundation, according to SITE, which follows jihadist groups.
这段名为《给美国的信息》(A Message to America)的视频显示，这名记者跪在一片荒芜的土地上，身穿橙色连体服——貌似参考了美国在古巴的关塔纳摩军事监狱的囚服。他的左边站着一名蒙面的ISIS武装分子。这名武装分子称，对福利的处决，是对奥巴马总统下令美国在伊拉克境内空袭该极端主义组织的报复。密切关注圣战主义团体的赛德情报集团称，视频是由al-Furqan Media Foundation的网络账号上传的。福利在视频中说，“我呼吁我的朋友、家人和我爱的人挺身而出，反抗杀害我的真凶——美国政府——因为我即将面临的遭遇，完全是他们自鸣得意的罪行造成的。”
Mr. Foley, 40, a freelance journalist who was working for GlobalPost, an online publication based in Boston, as well as Agence France-Presse, went missing on Nov. 22, 2012 in Syria. He was held alongside several other American prisoners, whose families have insisted on a news blackout.
40岁的福利是一名自由记者，于2012年11月22日在叙利亚失踪，当时他正在为波士顿的网络刊物《环球邮报》(GlobalPost)和法新社(Agence France-Presse)工作。他和其他几名美国囚犯关在一起，那几名美国人的家人坚决要求媒体不要在报道中提到他们。