During the years that she was addicted to online gaming, life for Emily Kim began when she got home from work at 6 p.m.
在埃米莉·金(Emily Kim)沉迷网络游戏那些年，她的生活从下午6点下班到家开始。
“I would shower quick, and eat something, no matter what, so I could start playing my game,” said Ms. Kim, a.k.a the YouTube Korean-cooking star Maangchi. “And I wouldn’t stop till 3 a.m.”
“我会匆匆洗个澡，随便吃点东西，然后就玩游戏，一直玩到凌晨3点。”金女士说。她就是YouTube上的韩国料理烹饪明星Maangchi。
In 2003, divorced and with her two grown children out of the house, Ms. Kim ventured into the online role-playing battle game City of Heroes and couldn’t pull herself away.
2003年，金离婚了，两个孩子也长大离家，她开始尝试在线角色扮演打斗游戏《英雄之城》(City of Heroes)，沉迷其中，难以自拔。
Maangchi, pronounced MAHNG-chee and meaning “hammer” in Korean, was the name of her online avatar, who specialized in destruction, wielding a huge scimitar and wearing a tiny miniskirt.
Maangchi是她的网名，发音是MAHNG-chee，在韩语中是“锤子”的意思。Maangchi擅长破坏，挥舞巨大的弯刀，穿超短裙。
Finally, she said, in 2007, her children persuaded her to try a more nourishing form of Internet expression: cooking videos. “I had no idea if anyone would watch me,” she said, “but the Korean recipes I saw in English were full of mistakes, and I wanted to show the real way we do things.”
她说，2007年，孩子们劝她尝试一种更有意义的网络表达方式：烹饪视频。“我完全不知道会不会有人看，”她说，“不过，我看到的英文韩餐菜谱满是错误，所以我想展示我们真实的烹饪方法。”
Now, Ms. Kim has more than 619,000 YouTube subscribers, more than Martha Stewart, Alton Brown, Ree Drummond and Ina Garten combined. (Since 2012, along with the channel’s other most popular producers, she has had a revenue-sharing partnership with YouTube that allows her to cook and shoot full time.)
如今，金的YouTube账户拥有61.9万名订阅者，超过了玛莎·斯图尔特(Martha Stewart)、奥尔顿·布朗(Alton Brown)、雷·德拉蒙德(Ree Drummond)和伊娜·加滕(Ina Garten)的订户总和（从2012年起，和美食频道其他最热门的内容生产者一样，她也和YouTube达成了收入共享的合作协议，这样她就可以全职烹饪和拍摄）。
At age 58, she has just published a cookbook, “Maangchi’s Real Korean Cooking” (Rux Martin/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt), one of the few comprehensive books on Korean cooking written for Americans, but without major adjustments to make the food more accessible.
58岁的金刚刚出版了《Maangchi的真实韩餐食谱》（Maangchi’s Real Korean Cooking, 鲁克斯·马丁出版社/霍顿-米夫林-哈考特出版公司[Rux Martin/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt]出版）。它是写给美国人的韩餐食谱，内容详尽，不过并没有为了方便读者操作而进行重大调整，这样的书很是少见。
From watching her videos, it is hard to envision Ms. Kim as a reclusive gamer. In extravagant eye makeup and bright pink lipstick, she cooks huge batches of crowd-pleasers like bibimbap, bulgogi and KFC, sweet-sticky-spicy Korean fried chicken.
看着金的视频，你很难想象她曾是个沉迷网游的宅女。她打着浓重的眼影，涂着亮粉色口红，烹制出大批很受欢迎的食物，例如石锅拌饭、韩国烤肉，以及肯德基式的甜辣韩国炸鸡。
In her kaleidoscopic wardrobe of tiaras, leatherette shorts and fascinators (and four-inch platform shoes to lift her up to the camera), she demonstrates the endless variations of kimchi and schools her viewers in the proper pronunciation of dishes like soegogi-muguk (pronounced SAY-go-gee moo-GUHK), beef and radish soup. She writes the Korean characters on a whiteboard, wearing magenta gloves encrusted with fake bling.
她身着千变万化的服饰——皇冠头饰、仿皮短裤、丝网头花，还有四英寸高的松糕鞋，以让她能达到摄像机的高度 ——向观众展示种类繁多的韩国泡菜，并传授很多食物的正确发音，比如牛肉萝卜汤（soegogi-muguk，发音是SAY-go-gee moo-GUHK）。她戴着镶假珠宝的洋红色手套，在白板上写下韩文。
Although she presents herself as girlish and lighthearted, Ms. Kim is first and foremost a teacher, and a strict one at that.
虽然金看起来像个无忧无虑的女孩，但她首先是个老师，而且是个严格的老师。
“I have to do everything correctly,” she said. “Otherwise I will hear about it from the Koreans.”
“我做的一切都必须是对的，”她说，“否则韩国人就会提意见。”
This is a phrase she often repeated to the editors of her cookbook when they quailed at including recipes for fermented sardines, jellyfish salad and kelp stock. This, Ms. Kim believes, is the problem with virtually every Korean restaurant in the United States: The food is sweeter, saltier, less spicy, less fishy and less rich with umami than it should be. “They have to follow the taste of Americans, and the Korean-Americans,” she said. “I have the taste from growing up in Korea.”
她的烹饪书编辑们不敢把某些食谱（例如发酵沙丁鱼、凉拌海蜇和海草高汤）加到书里，于是她得经常对他们重复这句话。金认为这正是所有美国韩餐馆共有的问题：那里的食物比正宗的韩国料理更甜或更咸，但是辣味、鱼味和鲜味(umami)不够。“它们必须迎合普通美国人和韩裔美国人的口味，”她说，“我在韩国长大，我的口味是正宗的韩国口味。”
Ms. Kim was raised in Yeosu, a port city near the southern tip of the Korean Peninsula, where her family was in the seafood business. Like uncountable generations of Korean women, she learned from her mother, aunts and grandmothers how to not only cook but also pickle, smoke, dry and ferment.
金在朝鲜半岛南端附近的港口城市丽水长大，她的家族经营海鲜生意。和无数代韩国女人一样，她从母亲、姑妈和祖母那里学习如何烹饪，还学习如何腌制、熏制、风干和发酵食品。
Ms. Kim first came to the United States in 1992 with her husband, an academic who emigrated to take a teaching job in Columbia, Mo., and she has since been at the center of every group of Korean expatriates she has been part of. In the Midwest, she led expeditions in search of Japanese or Chinese restaurants (at that time, she said, she did not know of any Korean restaurants in the entire region). Later, she worked as a counselor for (and cooked for) Korean-American families who had suffered through domestic abuse. To her, building a community online was a natural extension of her life.
1992年，金初次随丈夫来到美国。她的丈夫是一名学者，他移民美国，在密苏里州哥伦比亚市教书。从那时起，无论参与什么韩裔侨民团体，她都会成为中心人物。在美国中西部，她带领大家寻找日本或中国餐馆（她说，那时候，整个地区没有一家韩国料理餐馆）。后来，她为有家暴问题的韩裔美国家庭担任顾问（和厨师）。对她来说，在网上建立一个团体是生活很自然的延伸。
Now, she lives and shoots her videos in a compact apartment perched above the frenzy of Times Square, where the view from her kitchen window includes a giant hand pointing down to Madame Tussauds Wax Museum. She shares the apartment with David Seguin, a web developer at The New York Times, whom she married in 2009. There, she practices the slow and ancient art of fermenting, making gochujang (chile paste) and doenjang (soybean paste), an umami-rich flavor element pervasive in Korean cooking, similar to Japanese miso. The recipe, which is in the book, calls for an electric blanket, more than a gallon of salt and hay; it takes almost a year to complete. (Most cooks simply buy the finished products, but the flavors of the homemade ones are extraordinary.)
如今，她住在忙乱的时报广场边一个高层小公寓里，也在这里拍摄视频。从厨房窗户望出去，能看到指向杜莎夫人蜡像馆的大手。她的丈夫大卫·塞金(David Seguin)是《纽约时报》的网页开发员，两人于2009年结婚。就在这个公寓里，她用古老缓慢的发酵方法制作辣酱和豆瓣酱。豆瓣酱在韩餐中非常普遍，类似于日本的味噌，鲜味十足。她的烹饪书里有做豆瓣酱的食谱，不仅需要一加仑盐和干草，更重要的是得有个电热毯，要用将近一年时间才能做好。大部分厨师直接买现成的，但是自制豆瓣酱的味道无与伦比。
Other arts that she practices more casually include cutting and arranging food appetizingly, and composing harmonious meals of stunning variety. Traditionally, even a basic family dinner consists of 8 to 10 different dishes: soup or stew, rice, kimchi, often a stir-fry of protein and vegetables and at least three banchan, savory side dishes like spicy cucumber salad or steamed eggplant. Festive meals can be as elaborate as the traditional platter of nine delicacies, a dish of tiny crepes and eight fillings that was once reserved for royalty, or as simple as a pile of fried chicken or a pan of bulgogi, marinated beef wrapped with greens, herbs and vegetables.
还有其他一些随意一点的技巧，比如用更加诱人的方式切割和摆放食物，用多种多样的食材搭配出和谐的一餐。按照韩国传统，连最基本的家庭晚餐也包括八至十种不同的菜肴：汤或炖菜、米饭、泡菜、炒肉或炒蔬菜、至少三份可口的配菜(banchan)，比如辣拌黄瓜或蒸茄子。节日大餐可以非常复杂，例如传统的九珍盘，就是一盘小薄饼加八种馅料，过去是皇室专享的；也可以简单一些，比如一堆炸鸡或一盘烤肉——就是把腌制过的烤牛肉与绿叶蔬菜、香草和其他蔬菜卷在一起。
Bulgogi is part of the tradition often called Korean barbecue, grilled meat seasoned with sesame and scallion, and with ripe pears in the marinade to tenderize the meat and add a characteristic sweetness. It is one of the country’s most successful culinary exports, and reflects Korea’s collaborative cooking tradition: In a cold country, gathering tightly around a pile of hot coals to eat is only logical.
烤肉是韩国烧烤传统的一部分，烤肉上放着芝麻和大葱等调料，腌汁中加入煮熟的梨，用来让肉质更嫩，也增加一丝独特的甜味。它是韩国最成功的出口美食，反映出韩国人协作的烹饪传统：在这个寒冷的国家，一家人紧紧围坐在一堆热碳周围吃饭无疑是最合理的做法了。
“There is nothing Koreans love more than sitting around a table where every inch is covered with food,” Ms. Kim said. “And if there is a grill in the middle of it, that is even better.”
“韩国人最喜欢围坐在摆满美食的桌边，”金说，“如果桌子正中有烤肉，那就更好了。”