When they’re not tending clients or updating inventory at the Albright Fashion Library, a supplier of fresh-from-the-runway looks to stylists, socialites and film companies, Lindsay Carr and Yael Quint like to poke around the Internet for credible approximations of their favorite high-end labels. Their jobs afford them plenty of chances to beg, borrow or buy at a discount any number of lust-worthy items from the likes of Balenciaga, Givenchy or Céline. But on a recent spring morning, Ms. Carr was turned out top to toe in Zara.
琳赛·凯尔(Lindsay Carr)和雅艾尔·昆特(Yael Quint)经营奥尔布赖特时装资料馆(Albright Fashion Library)，它向造型师、社会名流和电影公司供应刚在时装秀上展示过的服装。她们不接待客户或更新库存的时候，喜欢在互联网上四处寻找值得信赖的、与她们最喜欢的高端品牌相似的服装。这份工作让她们有很多机会可以讨要、租借或者打折购买很多令人艳羡的名牌服装，比如巴黎世家(Balenciaga)、纪梵希(Givenchy)和赛琳(Céline)。但是在今年春天的一个早上，凯尔从头到脚穿的都是Zara。
Ms. Quint sat alongside her wearing a filmy top, Céline sandals and a pair of billowing trousers. Their provenance: Zara. “Stylists who visit here are constantly asking, ‘Are you wearing Céline, are you wearing Givenchy?’ “ Ms. Quint said, adding with a hoot, “We like to tell them, ‘No, we’re wearing Zalenciaga, or we’re wearing Zéline.’ ”
她旁边坐着的昆特穿着一件薄上衣，赛琳牌凉鞋和一条宽松的裤子。这些衣服也都是Zara牌的。“来这里的造型师们经常问：‘你们穿的是赛琳还是纪梵希？’”昆特说。她大笑着补充说：“我们喜欢跟他们说‘我们穿的是扎黎世家(Zalenciaga)’，或者说‘我们穿的是泽琳(Zéline)’。’”
If that sounds smug, it may be because Ms. Carr and Ms. Quint are pleased to claim membership in an expanding coterie of fashion insiders — magazine editors, stylists, bloggers and street-style divas — to tap Zara routinely, and repeatedly, for timely, decently priced approximations of the runways’ greatest hits.
如果那听起来有点自鸣得意，也许是因为凯尔和昆特乐于称自己是一个不断扩大的时尚界业内小圈子的一员——杂志编辑、造型师、博主和街拍天后——她们定期访问Zara，以便及时以适中的价格得到与秀台上最热门的造型相似的服装。
Among tastemakers, the zeal is infectious. “We all aspire, regardless of age, height, weight and color, to be the girls on the runway,” said Kristen Henderson, a fashion blogger in Atlanta. “I feel like Zara puts you there.”
在时尚领头人中，热情是有传染力的。“不管年龄、身高、体重和肤色，我们都渴望成为秀台上的女孩，”亚特兰大的时尚博主克里斯汀·亨德森(Kristen Henderson)说，“我觉得Zara能让你拥有那种感觉。”
It wasn’t always so. Only a couple of years ago, Zara, with its midprice interpretations of runway trends, was a leading purveyor of cheap chic to the budget-conscious crowd, offering well-constructed, moderately stylish wares that, for the most part, steered clear of the cutting edge. A retail division of the Spanish global giant Inditex, with some 1,900 stores in 87 countries, the company does not advertise. Unlike its competition, fast-fashion chains including Topshop and H&M, it has eschewed collaborations with upscale designer labels; nor has it flooded the Internet with a barrage of tweets and social media shout-outs.
Zara以前不是这样的。就在几年前，Zara通过对秀台潮流的中端价位服装进行诠释，主要是给在意价格的人群提供便宜的时尚衣服，这些样式漂亮、适度时尚的服装大多避开最前卫的风格。Zara是西班牙跨国公司Inditex的一个零售部门，在87个国家有1900个店铺。它不做广告。不像它的竞争对手——Topshop和H&M这样的快速时尚连锁店——它不和高级设计师品牌合作，也不在互联网上密集发布推文或进行社交媒体宣传。
Apparently it saw no need. The company, which had close to $15 billion in sales for 2013, does not grant interviews or discuss retail and marketing strategies. Yet in the last 18 to 20 months, it has clearly sought to reposition itself as a fashion front-runner with a definable point of view.
显然过去它觉得这没必要。这家公司2013年的销售额接近150亿美元，它不接受采访或讨论零售和营销策略。但是在过去18个月至20个月里，它明显是想把自己重新定位成一个有着清晰观点的时尚领跑者。
At a time when there are few sweeping upmarket fashion trends, Zara is championing minimalism, noted Jeff Van Sinderen, a senior retail analyst for apparel with B. Riley & Company, a research and investment firm. “Their look is very aspirational, in terms of the brands they are emulating,” he said. “Focusing on clean, spare lines, like those of Jil Sander or Céline, has set them apart.” And, he might have added, turned the chain into an unlikely magnet for fashion progressives.
杰夫·范·辛德伦(Jeff Van Sinderen)是研究投资公司B. Riley & Company的服装零售高级分析师。他说，在几乎没有广泛的高档时装潮流的时候，Zara是极简派的领袖。“从他们效仿的品牌可以看出，他们的造型很有野心，”他说，“像吉尔·桑达(Jil Sander)或赛琳那样，他们注重干净、简洁的线条，这让他们与众不同。”他可能还补充说，这让这个连锁店变得对时装进步人士具有不可思议的吸引力。
Not by any stretch a design innovator, Zara has nonetheless passed muster with the style-obsessed. “These days, Zara feels like a fashion brand,” said Hannah Weil, a blogger with the Pop Sugar website, who turns to the store and its website for wardrobe refreshers — “a little crop top,” she said, “or a piece that will give your look a little edge.”
Zara绝不是设计创新者，但是它满足了时尚迷们的基本要求。“如今，Zara感觉像个时尚品牌，”Pop Sugar网站的博主汉娜·韦伊(Hannah Weil)说。她会去Zara的店铺和网站寻找给衣橱增添活力的衣服——“一件露脐上衣，”她说，“或者一件能让你的造型有点前卫的衣服。”
She is part of a wider audience the company has courted, according to Dana Telsey of the Telsey Advisory Group, a stock research firm. “In the past year, they’ve been expanding their customer base toward more influential consumers,” she said. “That they can go up and down the ladder helps them to gain awareness and build market share.”
据股票研究公司特尔西顾问集团(Telsey Advisory Group)的达纳·特尔西(Dana Telsey)说，韦伊是这个公司吸引的更广泛的顾客之一。“在过去的一年，他们的客户群已经扩展到一些更有影响力的顾客，”她说，“这些顾客能从各种层次帮助他们获得知名度，扩大市场份额。”
The company relies largely on word of mouth and a high-luster website, introduced in the United States in 2011, to create a hunger for its wares. The site, which vies these days in slick production values and of-the-moment looks with those of many fashion magazines, arrived at a time when any lingering stigma attached to buying copies has all but evaporated, even among the most stubborn designer-label purists.
该公司主要依靠口碑和2011年在美国上线的一个非常诱人的网站，来引发人们对他们产品的渴望。该网站如今和很多时装杂志在制片效果和流行造型方面一争高下。该网站创建时，与购买仿制品联系在一起的残存耻辱已经几乎完全消失了，甚至在那些最固执的设计师品牌追求者中也是如此。
Segmented into men’s, women’s and children’s offerings, the site includes a separate Studio classification aimed at the vanguard and a Zara Lookbook, a magazine-like feature showcasing the company’s more advanced items, among them a short-sleeve jumpsuit with flared lapels and a double-breasted, gold-button navy blazer (each $139). Offerings with a slightly broader appeal include a stretch-cotton leaf print blazer ($99.90), a floral print calf-length skirt ($79), a fringed imitation-suede top ($69.90) and a modish selection of platform sandals and bucket bags.
该网站分为男装、女装和童装三个大类，还包括独立的针对前卫人士的工作室(Studio)和Zara Lookbook，后者像个杂志，展示该公司更高端的服装，比如，短袖外翻领连衣裤和双排金扣深蓝上衣（每件都是139美元）。具有更广泛吸引力的服装包括弹力棉叶子印花上衣（99.90美元），长及腿肚的印花裙（79美元），流苏仿软羔皮上衣（69.90美元）和一些精选的时髦的松糕凉鞋和水桶包。
The fashion devout are impressed. “Why Can’t Our Closet Be Just Like the Zara Lookbook?” Ms. Weil posted last fall on Pop Sugar. The site is clean and well curated, she elaborated in an interview. “You get a sense that everything goes with everything else.”
这位虔诚的时装迷被深深打动了。“为什么我的衣橱不能像Zara Lookbook那样呢？”韦伊去年秋天在Pop Sugar网站上发文说。她在一次采访中解释说，Zara的网站清晰，策划得很好。“它让你觉得，每件衣服都能和其他衣服搭配。”
Her peers around the country fairly boast of their Zara dependency. “I’m addicted,” Ms. Henderson wrote on her blog, Style with Kirsten Kai. She confided that she scours local Zara outposts once a month, dropping $150 to $300 during each visit. She counts on the store for the leather pieces she covets: shorts, skirts and jackets in particular. “Everything leather that I own that’s not vintage is Zara,” she said.
她在世界各地的同伴们非常以自己对Zara的依赖为荣。“我上瘾了，”亨德森在她的博客Style with Kirsten Kai中写道。她透露，她每个月都到当地的几个Zara店铺逛一圈，每次都要花150至300美元。她指望在这家店里找到她渴望的皮质服装：特别是短裤、半身裙和上衣。“我拥有的所有不老气的皮质服装都是Zara的，”她说。
Zara shares with some magazines and online fashion sites a strategy of enlisting style-world luminaries to boost its hipness quotient. Fashion media stars including Taylor Tomasi Hill, a contributor to the Gwyneth Paltrow blog, Goop, and Amanda Brooks, a former fashion director of Barneys New York, have modeled in its web pages. As pertinent, though Zara declines to confirm it, the company has engaged a handful of influential fashion stylists as “consultants,” to rework or adapt — in a word, copy — the most heat-generating runway looks for its increasingly savvy audience.
Zara和一些杂志以及在线时装网站都采用了一个策略：招募时尚界名流来宣扬它的时尚指数。很多时装媒体明星，包括格温妮丝·帕特洛(Gwyneth Paltrow)的博客傻瓜(Goop)的供稿人泰勒·托马西·希尔(Taylor Tomasi Hill)以及巴尼斯纽约精品店(Barneys New York)的前时装总监阿曼达·布鲁克斯(Amanda Brooks)，在它的网页上做模特。另外，虽然Zara拒绝承认，但是该公司已经找了几位有影响力的时尚造型师做“顾问”，来为它越来越懂行的顾客们改进或改造——换句话说，仿制——秀台上最热门的造型。
To hear from shoppers, its strategy has paid off. “In my office, Zara has become the center of so many conversations,” Ms. Weil said. “Probably because they have stepped up what they’re doing.”
从顾客的反应来看，它的策略奏效了。“在我的办公室，Zara成了很多谈话的中心，”韦伊说，“很可能是因为他们的加速推进。”
Ms. Henderson voiced a growing consensus. “Whatever is out there in the marketplace, whatever is going on, Zara is right there on point,” she said. “It’s a place where women of all age ranges can shop.”
亨德森说出了一个越来越强烈的共识。“不管市场上有什么，在流行什么，Zara总是站在风头浪尖，”她说，“各个年龄层的女人都能在这里买到想要的东西。”
So ardent is she, one might suspect that Zara had offered incentives to feature the label on her blog. Not so, Ms. Henderson said. Zara would be one of the last brands to reach out to bloggers, she said. The fashion set’s devotion is, she maintained, spontaneous and unsolicited.
亨德森如此充满热情，人们可能怀疑Zara给了她什么好处，让她在博客中宣传这个品牌。她说，不是这样的。她说，Zara可能是最不会收买博主的品牌之一。她坚持说，时尚界对Zara的热爱是自发的、主动的。
Indeed, industry professionals count themselves as among the brand’s chief boosters. “Zara has completely opened up the world to fashion people,” Ms. Quint said. “Stylists who never shopped there before are shopping there now.”
的确如此，时装界专业人士们认为自己也是这个品牌的主要支持者。“Zara已经完全向时尚人士打开了大门，”昆特说，“以前从来不在那里购物的造型师们现在也在那里购物。”
Some unabashedly show off their “gets” at fashion gatherings. “Especially at Fashion Week, there’s that wow factor,” Ms. Weil said. “People are always asking each other, ‘Oh, maybe you’re wearing Céline?’ Zara does that look really well.”
一些人大胆地在时尚聚会上炫耀她们的“收获”。“特别是在时装周上，总会产生让人赞叹的效果，”韦伊说，“人们总是互相询问，‘哦，也许你穿的是赛琳？Zara真的能很好地展示那个造型。”
Well enough, in fact, that Céline this year took a radical step, pre-empting retailers’ efforts to “adapt” or “interpret” its much-copied collection by showing images not six months in advance of the season, but just as it is reaching stores. They could have taken lessons from Zara itself, which does not offer previews, captivating even style-sated pros with an element of surprise.
实际上，今年赛琳采取了一个激进的做法，为了防止零售商们“改造”或“阐释”它被大量仿效的系列，它没有提前六个月展示这些衣服，而是在进店前才发布。他们可以借鉴Zara的做法，不提供预览，而是用惊喜让那些特别注重时尚的专业人士也为之着迷。
“For me, as a fashion editor, Zara is the only brand I don’t see ahead of time,” said Jade Frampton, the senior market editor at Elle magazine. “It’s the store I shop in. Every time I look around, I’m like, ‘I haven’t seen any of this before.’ ”
“作为一个时尚编辑，我觉得Zara是唯一一个我不能提前看到的品牌，”Elle杂志的高级市场编辑杰德·弗兰普顿(Jade Frampton)说，“我得去店里购物。每次我在里面四处张望时都心想：‘这些以前我都没见过。’”
The label’s cool factor is catnip to Ms. Frampton, who chose to be photographed in a Zara demi-sheer pleated skirt, a style clearly inspired by the spring runways. “The silhouettes and color selection have gone up, and so has the overall quality of the merchandise.”
正是该品牌酷酷的气质吸引了弗兰普顿。她选择Zara的半透明百褶半身裙拍照，这条裙子显然是受到春季秀台的启发设计的。“它的剪裁和色彩选择都提升了，所以这件衣服的整体品质也提升了。”
Trendiness is appealing to her, but quality is as decisive in determining what she will buy. “At the end of the day, you’re still spending money,” she said. “You don’t want things to fall apart when you get home.”
这些衣服的时尚在吸引她，但品质也是决定她购买的关键因素。“说到底，你是在花钱，”她说，“你不希望回家后发现不合适。”