BEIJING — In the latest beauty craze sweeping social media in China, women — and some men — are boasting that they are paper thin, by posting photographs of their waists behind a vertical piece of A4 paper.
北京——最新的一股美体风潮席卷了中国的社交媒体，女人（以及一些男人）吹嘘自己的身段窈窕如纸，纷纷贴出用一张竖立的A4纸遮挡自己腰部的照片。
To qualify, the waist must be entirely hidden by the paper. A piece of A4 paper is 8.3 by 11.7 inches, roughly the size of a sheet of American letter paper. Holding it horizontally is cheating.
要达到“A4腰”的标准，腰部就必须完全被这张纸遮挡住。A4纸宽210mm，长297mm，和美国的信纸差不多大。横着拿属于作弊。
With the hashtag #A4Waist and a handful of variations, the trend is attracting hundreds of photographs and thousands of comments, on Weibo and other social media networks like Weixin or WeChat.
在微博和微信等社交媒体上，“#A4腰#”和类似标签吸引了数以百计的照片和数以千计的评论。
Skinny-bordering-on-emaciated is a widespread standard of beauty for women, one that has been criticized as an unhealthy ideal of female attractiveness.
纤细是一个普遍的女性审美标准，有人批评这是一种不健康的女性魅力观。
The tiny waist has a long tradition in China, going back at least to King Ling of Chu, who ruled from 540 to 529 B.C. Many in China know the passage from the Book of Han, the history of the Western Han dynasty: “The King of Chu loved a narrow waist. Many people at court starved to death.”
偏好细腰的审美观在中国有着悠久的历史，至少可以追溯到公元前540年至前529年在位的国君楚灵王。很多中国人都知道记载西汉历史的《汉书》中有一句话：“楚王好细腰，宫中多饿死。”
As noted in “Mozi,” the text compiled by followers of the philosopher Mozi: “So his ministers ate only one meal a day, and only fastened their belts after taking a breath. They were only able to stand up by holding onto a wall.”
哲学家墨子的追随者在辑录而成的《墨子》中记载道：“故灵王之臣皆以一饭为节，胁息然后带，扶墙然后起。”
Several commentators have found the A4 trend disturbing.
一些评论者觉得A4腰的趋势令人恼火。
“Bodies don’t need eyes staring at them,” Zheng Churan wrote on a piece of A4 paper that she held horizontally, not vertically, below her waist. “I love my fat waist.”
郑楚然将一张A4纸横放，不是竖立在腰部，纸上写着：“身体不需要被凝视。我爱我肥腰。”
In a telephone interview, He Xiaobin, senior fashion features editor at the Chinese edition of GQ magazine, said, “I find it completely stupid.’’
在接受电话采访时，《智族GQ》杂志的资深时装编辑何晓斌说，“我觉得这很蠢。”
“Everybody has a different frame and body shape,” Mr. He said. “Using a single size to define all human beings and thinking you have created a new standard is arrogant and foolish.”
“因为每个人骨架、体型都不一样，”他说。“光用一个尺寸来定义全人类并自以为创造了一种新标准是傲慢而愚蠢的.”
The A4 waist challenge annoyed him, he said, for allowing “certain people to gain bragging rights, while leaving others in dismay.”
“A4腰”挑战让他很恼火，他说，因为这让“一部分人得到炫耀的资本，然后让另一部分人就变得很沮丧。”
Luckily, some who do not qualify are turning to humor for comfort. Can they substitute a different paper size, such as A3, which is 11.7 inches across? Or measure a body part besides the waist?
幸运的是，一些没有达到A4标准的人也从幽默中寻找安慰。他们能用不同尺寸的纸张代替吗，比如297mm宽的A3纸？或者是用A4纸对比腰部以外的肢体部分？
As the user Zhai Ruoyi wrote on her Weibo: “How can you have an A4 waist? I have A4 legs!”
微博用户宅若一（音）说：“你们怎么有A4腰的呢？我只有A4腿！”
The World Health Organization has registered concern about rising obesity in China, where it says greater prosperity and changing diets are pushing obesity rates to 20 percent in some cities.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)对中国日渐严重的肥胖问题表示了担忧，称更加繁荣的经济和不断变化的日常饮食，促使中国部分城市的肥胖率高达20%。
An A4 piece of paper sets a daunting standard for a waist. Tripling its width — to about 25 inches — to measure the circumference would leave it smaller than the average American waist, which is 34 to 35 inches.
A4纸制定了一个苛刻的腰围标准。如果将其宽度乘以三，即25英寸当成腰围，与美国女性34至35英寸的平均腰围相比，也仍算纤细。
Even for China, where many women are thin, the A4 waist is very small. As the user LiuXXXStar wrote on Weibo: “My waist is small enough, but it’s not an #A4Waist.”
即便在很多女性都较瘦的中国，A4腰也算非常细的。正如用户名为“刘XXX星”的微博用户所写的：“我的腰已经够细了，但也不是#A4腰#。”
This is not the first skinny craze to circulate on Chinese social media in recent years. An earlier one featured women posting photographs of themselves wrapping an arm all the way around their waist to qualify as sufficiently slim.
这不是中国社交媒体上近年来出现的第一股炫瘦狂潮。在早前的一波热潮中，众多女性纷纷晒出自己反手摸肚脐的照片，证明自己足够瘦。