HONG KONG — Strangers ask him if he was wearing pants. His phone hasn’t stopped ringing. And, no, he was not abusing his daughter in trying to get her out of camera range during a live television interview.
香港——陌生人问他当时有没有穿裤子。他的手机铃声一直没停过。还有，不，他在一场电视直播采访中试图让女儿离开摄像头画面时，没有在虐待她。
Robert E. Kelly, the so-called “BBC dad” whose young children wandered into the room while he was doing a Skype interview on South Korean politics, met with reporters along with his family on Wednesday to discuss their newfound fame and the “very public family blooper” that has made them a viral sensation.
周三，被称作“BBC老爸”的罗伯特·E·凯利(Robert E. Kelly)携家人出现在记者面前，谈论他们新获得的名气和那场引起轰动的“非常公开的家庭洋相”：凯利在Skype上就韩国政局接受采访时，他年幼的孩子走进了房间。
“This is now the first line in my obituary,” Dr. Kelly said during a news conference at Pusan National University in South Korea, where he is a professor of political science.
“现在如果写我的讣告，第一句话会是这事，”凯利在韩国釜山国立大学(Pusan National University)的新闻发布会上说。他是该校的一名政治学教授。
With his 8-month-old son, James, squirming in the arms of his wife, Kim Jeong-ah, Dr. Kelly told the room full of reporters that when the BBC interview ended, he thought he would never be invited on television again. Little did he know.
八个月大的儿子詹姆斯(James)在他妻子金贞亚（Kim Jeong-ah，音）的怀里扭来扭去，屋子里挤满了记者。凯利说，BBC的采访结束后，他以为再也不会有人请他上电视接受采访了。他怎么会料到后来的事情呢？
“We thought it was a disaster,” he said of the interview during which his 4-year-old daughter, Marion, marched into the room, followed by James in a squeaky walker, before his wife burst in and hurriedly shepherded the children away. “We thought no TV network would ever call us again.”
“我们觉得那是一场灾难，”他说起那场采访时说。采访期间，先是他4岁的女儿玛丽昂(Marion)走进房间，在一辆嘎吱作响的学步车里的詹姆斯也跟了进来，后来他妻子冲进来，手忙脚乱地把两个孩子带了出去。“我们以为不会再有电视台和我们连线了。”
The video has been mined by pundits for wider social significance, lampooned by comedians and doctored by GIF-makers. But Dr. Kelly warned against attaching deeper meaning to an embarrassing work-life mishap, noting that while doing TV interviews from home he tries to present a professional backdrop, despite the occasional chaos of his home life.
媒体上的专家们从这段视频里发掘出了更广泛的社会意义，喜剧人拿它开涮，GIF动画制作者用它当素材。但凯利认为，一场工作和生活中出现的令人尴尬的小事故，不应该被赋予更深层的含义。他还指出，在家里接受电视采访时，他会努力呈现一种专业的背景，尽管偶尔会出现家庭生活的混乱一幕。
“My real life punched through the fake cover I had created on television,” he said. “This is the kind of thing a lot of working parents can relate to.”
“真实的生活穿透了我在电视上制造的假象，”他说。“这种事情，很多职场父母都懂的。”
He also batted away some of the darker interpretations of his behavior, saying he was not manhandling his daughter by pushing her away during the interview.
他还驳斥了一些人对他的行为进行的更阴暗的解读，称自己在接受采访期间推开女儿时，并没有粗暴地推搡。
“I was not shoving Marion out of the way,” he said. “I was trying to slide Marion behind the chair because we have toys and books in the room” that he hoped would distract her.
“我不是猛地把玛丽昂推开，”他说。“我是想把玛丽昂拉到我的座位后面，因为房间里有玩具和书。”他本希望它们能转移她的注意力。
Dr. Kelly said he and his wife were bemused by the assumption — and the subsequent backlash against it — that Ms. Kim was a nanny working for the family. He said that they were offended, but not as much as some commentators on social media.
对于有人推测金贞亚是家里的保姆，以及随后引发的反对声，凯利说他和妻子感到困惑。他说他们觉得受到了冒犯，但不像社交媒体上的评论人士那么严重。
“Neither one of us are interested in politicizing this or having this provoke a backlash,” Dr. Kelly said in a telephone interview from his home after the news conference.
“我们既不想让这件事被政治化，也不想引起激烈的负面反应，”发布会结束后凯利在家里接受电话采访时说。
Dr. Kelly, who is from the United States, met Ms. Kim, a yoga teacher, at a shopping mall in Seoul shortly after he moved to South Korea in 2008. He and his wife rarely talk about race, he said, but they wonder whether their mixed-race children will face prejudice growing up in Asia.
2008年从美国去韩国后不久，凯利在一家商场结识了当瑜伽教练的金贞亚。他说，他和妻子很少讨论种族问题，但他们想知道，他们的混血孩子在亚洲长大成人期间会不会面临偏见。
“So far we haven’t gotten any flak,” he said, noting that his daughter, who is bilingual, is doing well in a Korean kindergarten.
“迄今为止，我们还没受到任何严厉指责，”他说，并指出会说两种语言的女儿在韩国幼儿园里过得很好。
He said that the couple occasionally wonder whether their children will get bullied, but, he said, “We’re not really keen on this becoming the subject of some aspiring sociologist’s dissertation.”
他说他和妻子偶尔会想知道，他们的孩子会不会被人欺负，但他说，“我们真的不希望这件事成为某个踌躇满志的社会学家的专题论文主题。”
Dr. Kelly has been a contributing guest on the BBC for many years, regularly discussing the tumultuous politics of the Korean Peninsula from the now-famous room.
凯利多年来一直是BBC的特邀嘉宾，经常在那个现在已经出名了的房间里讨论朝鲜半岛的动荡政局。
His internet fame comes as he has been in demand with the recent deluge of news about the two Koreas, including the removal of Park Geun-hye as South Korea’s president and North Korea’s missile tests.
随着最近有关韩朝两国的新闻层出不穷，包括韩国总统朴槿惠被罢免和朝鲜的导弹试验，他变得备受欢迎，如今则成了网络名人。
The United States secretary of state, Rex W. Tillerson, is heading to South Korea on Friday, and Dr. Kelly said he hoped the United States would reassure its allies that it would help them defend against Chinese “bullying.”
美国国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)将于周五前往韩国，凯利说他希望美国能向盟友保证，它会帮他们抵御中国的“欺凌”。
He expressed some concern about all the attention his family had received, saying, “We have been buried in phone calls.” And he denied any intention of cashing in on his newfound fame, saying that “it would be unseemly to monetize” something involving his children.
他对自己的家庭受到的关注表示了一些担忧，称“我们被电话淹没了”。他也否认了自己有利用新获得的名声赚钱的任何企图，称用涉及自己孩子的事情“赚钱不合适”。
Contrary to speculation on the internet, Dr. Kelly said, he and Ms. Kim did not fight after the interview ended. And he shot down a widely circulated theory for why he had not gotten up from his chair.
和网上的猜测相反的是，凯利说，采访结束后，他和妻子并没有吵架。此外，他也驳斥了一个广泛流传的有关他为什么没有从座位上起身的说法。
“I was wearing pants,” he said.
“我当时穿裤子了，”他说。