Christine Granville was one of the bravest, toughest and strangest secret agents of World War II. Her feats of derring-do included acting as a courier in Nazi-occupied Europe, parachuting into France in support of the Allied invasion and rescuing three of her comrades from certain execution. She was said to be Winston Churchill’s favorite spy — a considerable accolade given how much Britain’s wartime prime minister liked spies. She may have been the model for Vesper Lynd, the female agent in Ian Fleming’s first James Bond novel, “Casino Royale.” She won medals for bravery from both Britain and France. Men found her irresistible, and she did very little to resist them.
克里斯汀·格兰维尔(Christine Granville)是“二战”中最勇敢、最坚强、最奇怪的间谍。她的英勇事迹包括在纳粹占领的欧洲担任情报员，为支持盟军进攻空降至法国，救出三位要遭处决的同事。据说她是温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)最喜欢的间谍——想想这位英国战时首相多么喜欢间谍，你就知道这是多高的赞誉了。她可能是伊恩·弗莱明(Ian Fleming)的第一部詹姆斯·邦德小说《皇家赌场》(Casino Royale)中的女间谍维斯帕·林德(Vesper Lynd)的原型。她获得了英国和法国的英勇勋章。男人发现她难以抗拒，而她也很少抗拒他们。
Yet this woman, so ripe for Hollywood hagiography, is almost unknown today. Her obscurity is the consequence of her gender (spy history is notoriously sexist), her nationality (she was Polish, and Communist Poland did not encourage praise of British spies) and above all her character. She was a complex and mysterious individual. She survived the war only to be murdered by an obsessed former lover in the lobby of a London hotel. As Clare Mulley reveals in her admirable and overdue biography, “The Spy Who Loved,” Granville was not a straightforward personality, and all the more fascinating for that.
然而，尽管这个女人的经历特别适合拍成好莱坞传记电影，但是如今她几乎不为人所知。她的默默无闻源于她的性别（间谍史一向具有性别歧视）、她的国籍（她是波兰人，当时的共产主义国家波兰不鼓励赞美英国间谍）和她的性格——最后这一点尤为重要。她是个复杂而神秘的人。她在战争中九死一生，却在伦敦一家酒店的大堂被痴迷她的前任情人杀死。就像克莱尔·马利(Clare Mulley)在她值得称赞、备受期待的传记《恋爱中的间谍》(The Spy Who Loved)中揭示的那样，格兰维尔不是个简单明了的人，这让她更加迷人。
Born Maria Krystyna Janina Skarbek, the daughter of a feckless Polish aristocrat and a wealthy Jewish heiress, she enjoyed a comfortable, uneventful and spoiled upbringing. Indeed, her main achievement before the war was to be a runner-up in the 1930 Miss Poland beauty contest. War changed her utterly.
她原名叫玛丽亚·克里斯蒂娜·雅尼娜·斯卡别克(Maria Krystyna Janina Skarbek)，父亲是个软弱的波兰贵族，母亲是个富有的犹太女继承人。她从小过着安逸舒适、无忧无虑、备受宠爱的生活。实际上，“二战”前她最大的成就是获得了1930年波兰小姐选美大赛的亚军。战争彻底改变了她。
She was in South Africa, the wife of a Polish diplomat, when the Germans invaded Poland in September 1939. She immediately headed for London, presented herself to the British secret service and offered to ski over the Carpathian Mountains into Poland in order to take British propaganda into Nazi-occupied Warsaw. “She is absolutely fearless,” a secret service report noted, a “flaming Polish patriot, . . . expert skier and great ­adventuress.”
1939年9月德军进攻波兰时她在南非，是一位波兰外交官的妻子。她很快前往伦敦，申请成为英国特工，提出滑雪穿过喀尔巴阡山进入波兰，在纳粹占领的华沙为英国进行政治宣传。特工局的一份报告说“她毫无畏惧”，是一位“热情的波兰爱国者……滑雪行家和伟大的女冒险家”。
She was duly recruited into Section D, which would evolve into the fabled Special Operations Executive (S.O.E.), the sabotage, subversion and espionage unit established by Churchill to operate behind enemy lines and “set Europe ablaze.” She adopted the name Christine Granville, received a British passport and shaved several years off her real age on official forms — self-reinvention was part of her makeup, as it is of many spies. The British gave her the code name “Willing,” an apt reflection of her attitude toward sex as well as her readiness to embrace extreme peril.
她如期应招进入军情D处，该处后来演变为充满传奇色彩的特别行动处(S.O.E.)，该处是丘吉尔建立的一个从事破坏、颠覆和间谍活动的组织，专门在敌人后方行动，“让欧洲不得安宁”。她化名克里斯汀·格兰维尔，获得了英国护照，在官方表格中把真实年龄略微减小了几岁——自我重造是她伪装的一部分，很多间谍都是这样做的。英国人给她的代号是“Willing”（意为“心甘情愿的”），恰当地反映了她乐意迎接极端危险的态度以及对待性的态度。
Deployed to Hungary, Granville spent the first part of her war ferrying messages and people in and out of Poland. She crossed the mountains between Hungary and Poland no fewer than six times, bringing out Polish resisters and soldiers who would go on to fight for the Allied cause. She was usually accompanied by Andrzej Kowerski, a one-legged Polish patriot who would become her most enduring (and long-suffering) lover.
在格兰维尔服役的第一个阶段，她被派到了匈牙利，把情报和人物送入或送出波兰。她至少6次穿过匈牙利和波兰之间的山脉，把波兰抵抗者和士兵带出来，继续为盟军作战。通常陪伴她的是安杰伊·科沃斯基(Andrzej Kowerski)，他是个只有一条腿的波兰爱国者，也是她最长久的（最受折磨的）情人。
The stories of her exceptional sang-froid come thick and fast: skiing past the corpses of refugees frozen to death in the mountains, bribing guards, dodging bullets from a Luftwaffe plane on an open hillside and escaping from the Gestapo by biting her own tongue, spitting blood, and thus convincing her captors that she was ill with tuberculosis.
关于她异常沉着冷静的故事数不胜数：滑雪经过山上冻死的难民尸体；收买警卫；在开阔的山坡上闪避纳粹空军的子弹；咬烂舌头吐出血，使抓捕者误以为她得了肺结核而逃出盖世太保的魔掌。
According to one account, she could even charm her way around animals: when a “vicious Alsatian dog, trained to bite and break necks,” found her hiding under a bush with some partisans, she placed her arm around it, and “it lay down beside her, ignoring its handler’s whistles.” Such tales, as Mulley observes, are “the stuff of legend,” and she is too good a historian to take them entirely at face value. Granville was an expert at her own mythologizing, telling her stories of pacifying enemy dogs “right and left, to whoever was willing to listen.”
据说，她甚至能迷倒动物：有一次一只“凶猛的、能咬断人脖子的阿尔萨斯狼狗”发现她和一些游击队员藏在灌木下面，她张开胳膊搂住它，“它卧倒在她旁边，不理会主人的口哨”。就像马利说的，这样的故事都是“传奇”。作为一名优秀的历史学家，马利不会照单全收。格兰维尔特别善于营造自己的神话色彩，“逢人就讲”她安抚敌人狼狗的故事。
Along the way, she picked up lovers at astonishing speed, and dropped them just as fast. Sometimes, they took rejection badly. One hilarious British intelligence report describes how Granville’s “attractiveness appeared to be causing some difficulty in Budapest.” One spurned lover had gone to her flat and threatened to shoot himself “in his genital organs.” He missed, and shot himself in the foot.
一路上，她以惊人的速度结交情人，也以同样惊人的速度抛弃他们。有时，他们很不能接受这样的抛弃。一份让人忍俊不禁的英国情报档案提到格兰维尔的“魅力似乎在布达佩斯惹出了一点麻烦”。一个被抛弃的情人来到她的公寓，威胁要射掉“自己的生殖器”。结果他射偏了，射到了脚上。
Granville was “politically naïve”: “An opportunist, keen on action, who fell in with whichever personal contact would give her an assignment to work for the freedom of her country.” Her patriotism was whole-souled, ferocious and probably the only uncomplicated thing about her.
格兰维尔“在政治上十分天真”：她是“一个机会主义者，热衷于采取行动，不管什么人，只要能给她一个有助于祖国获得自由的任务，她都不会推辞”。她的爱国精神真挚而惊人，这很可能是她唯一不复杂的一点。
In 1944, she was parachuted into southern France to aid Francis Cammaerts, the celebrated (and married) S.O.E. agent who became, inevitably, her lover. She carried vital messages and matériel between resistance groups; she addressed Polish conscripts in the German Army, urging them to change sides; she carried a razor-sharp commando knife and a cyanide tablet sewn into the hem of her skirt.
1944年，她空降到法国南部去协助弗朗西斯·卡默茨(Francis Cammaerts)。后者是特别行动处一位著名特工（已婚），不可避免地也成了她的情人。她在反抗组织之间传递重要情报和军备；她给德军中的波兰征兵讲话，劝他们倒戈；她随身携带锋利的突击刀，裙边缝着氰化物药片。
Her crowning achievement was to spring Cammaerts and two other captured agents from the Gestapo jail where they were awaiting execution. She bribed her way into the prison, claiming to be General Montgomery’s niece, and informed the French collaborator in command that if the executions went ahead, he would face swift and lethal reprisal from the advancing Allies. The Frenchman saw the force of this argument, and escaped along with his prisoners.
她最大的成就是把卡默茨和其他两位被俘的特工从盖世太保的监狱中救了出来——他们在监狱里等待处决。她通过行贿进入监狱，称自己是蒙哥马利元帅(General Montgomery)的侄女，警告法国通敌者的头目，说如果执行处决的话，他将遭到来自先遣盟军快速而致命的报复。那个法国人听出了这句话的威力，和囚犯们一起逃跑了。
Granville’s postwar life was as grim and bleak as her war had been vivid and exhilarating. Dismissed from S.O.E., she was, like so many other exiled Poles, unable to return to a homeland now under Communist rule. She found work as a telephone operator, a sales assistant and finally a stewardess on a shipping line. Britain’s failure to support a woman who had risked her life so many times was shameful, but in truth Granville was fickle, demanding and virtually unemployable, at least in the way she wanted to be employed. She did not want to be a typist, a wife or a mother; she wanted to be a spy.
格兰维尔在战争期间的生活活跃而振奋，而她战后的生活则阴沉而黯淡。她遭特别行动处遣散，像很多其他被流放的波兰人一样，无法返回共产党控制下的祖国。她做过话务员和销售助理，最后在一个航运公司做女乘务员。这个女人曾无数次冒着生命危险为英国服务，而英国却没能帮助她，这真是英国的耻辱。但是，格兰维尔也的确变化无常、要求很高，简直无法受雇于人，至少无法找到她想要的工作。她不想当打字员、妻子或母亲；她只想当间谍。
Mulley — the author of “The Woman Who Saved the Children: A Biography of Eglantyne Jebb, Founder of Save the Children” — makes excellent use of newly released archive material, the voluminous secondary sources and interviews with former colleagues, friends and lovers. But there is an unavoidable gap at the heart of this book, and that is the missing voice of Christine Granville herself. Only 11 of her letters seem to have survived. She never wrote an account of her exploits or described her own feelings. On the rare occasions that we do hear her voice, it is in fractured English that comes as a jolt: “Tell them that I am honest and clean Polish girl. . . . I like to jump out of a plane even every day.”
马利曾出版过《拯救孩子的女人：“救救孩子”的发起人艾格兰泰·杰布传》(The Woman Who Saved the Children: A Biography of Eglantyne Jebb, Founder of Save the Children)。她巧妙地利用新公布的档案材料、大量的二手资料以及对格兰维尔从前的同事、朋友和情人们的采访。但是这本书的核心部分有个不可避免的空白，那就是克里斯汀·格兰维尔本人的声音。她只有11封信件保留了下来。她从未写过自己的英勇事迹，也从没描述过自己的感受。在罕见的几个场合，我们听到了她的声音，那是她因为颠簸而断断续续说出的英语：“告诉他们我是个诚实而清白的波兰女孩……我喜欢从飞机上跳下来，我甚至喜欢每天都跳。”
Granville’s story is told, inevitably, through the eyes of others, principally men, who tended to project onto her the fantasy of what they wanted to see. Of no man is this truer than the one who killed her: Dennis Muldowney, an unstable and infatuated ship’s steward unable to cope with Granville’s rejection after a brief affair. Muldowney stalked her, and then stabbed her in the heart in June 1952. He was condemned to death, and went to the gallows proclaiming he was “still very much in love” with the unsung heroine he had killed.
格兰维尔的故事不可避免地是通过其他人——主要是男人——的眼睛来讲述的，他们喜欢把自己想看到的幻觉投射到她身上。其中最明显的就是那个杀死她的男人：丹尼斯·马尔唐尼(Dennis Muldowney)。他是一个情绪多变、痴心的轮船乘务员，他无法忍受在短暂的恋情之后被抛弃。1952年6月，马尔唐尼跟踪她，然后把匕首插向她的心脏，刺死了她。他被判处死刑，在走向绞刑架的时候仍然宣称自己“非常爱”这位被他杀死的默默无闻的女英雄。