The World’s 50 Best Restaurants announced its list for 2015 on Monday night in London, amid news that the ceremony would be moved to New York City in 2016, and in the face of increasingly loud criticism of its voting methodology.
周一晚间，2015年“世界50最佳餐厅”榜单在伦敦揭晓。有传闻称，2016年的颁奖仪式将移师纽约举行，而该榜单的评选机制也面临着愈发强烈的批判之声。
El Celler de Can Roca in Spain was named the No. 1 restaurant, reclaiming its position from Noma in Copenhagen, which dropped to No. 3, its lowest ranking since 2009. Chef Dan Barber’s rustic idyll north of New York City, Blue Hill at Stone Barns, cracked the list at No. 49, while Central in Lima, Peru, entered the top 10 for the first time.
西班牙的El Celler de Can Roca餐厅位列榜首，将此殊荣从哥本哈根的Noma手中夺回。Noma餐厅本次跌至第三位，是其2009年以来的最低排名。主厨丹·巴伯(Dan Barber)在纽约市北面主持的乡村田园生活般的Blue Hill at Stone Barns跻身第49位，而秘鲁利马的Central餐厅则首次进入了前十。
Eleven Madison Park in New York remained in the top 10, and Le Bernardin, Per Se, the French Laundry, Nomad, Saison and the Restaurant at Meadowood also held steady.
纽约的Eleven Madison Park继续稳定在前十，Le Bernardin、Per Se、French Laundry、 Nomad、 Saison和Restaurant at Meadowood同样保持了往年的水准。
But over all, American restaurants lost stature. The only new American restaurant on the long list was Estela in New York City, at No. 90. Alinea in Chicago fell to No. 26 from No. 9. Daniel in New York City dropped to 80 from 40, and Coi in San Francisco to 75 from 49, with Manresa in Los Gatos, Calif., squeaking in at No. 100, down from No. 62. Jean-Georges, Momofuku Ssam Bar and Marea all fell off the list altogether.
不过总体而言，美国餐厅的排名在下滑。长长的名单上，美国只有一家新上榜的餐厅，即位于纽约的Estela，排名第90。芝加哥的Alinea从第9位降至第26位。纽约的Daniel从第40位跌到第80位。旧金山的Coi从第49位掉到第75位。加利福尼亚州洛斯加托斯的Manresa从第62位一路下滑，勉强挤进了百强。Jean-Georges、Momofuku Ssam Bar和Marea则跌出了榜单。
The list showed a marked increase in global reach, adding restaurants in India, Dubai, Korea, Russia and South Africa. Restaurants in Latin America and Asia — regions where the 50 Best has robust separate awards programs — continued to add entries. Last year, there were 12 restaurants from those regions in the top 50; for 2015, there are 16.
本次排名的一大特色是更加全球化，来自印度、迪拜、韩国、俄罗斯和南非的餐厅首次上榜。入围的拉丁美洲和亚洲餐厅——“50最佳餐厅”还在这两个地区单独举办了如火如荼的评奖活动——继续增多。去年有12家来自上述地区的餐厅上榜；2015年则为16家。
Hélène Darroze won the Veuve Cliquot World’s Best Female Chef award, though none of her restaurants has ever appeared on the list. No restaurant run by a woman has ever appeared on the top 50, though some women who work with male partners have been on the list.
海林·达罗兹(Hélène Darroze)赢得了凯歌香槟世界最佳女厨师奖(Veuve Cliquot World’s Best Female Chef award)，不过她主持的餐厅从未登上过最佳餐厅名单。有一些女性与男性搭档合作的餐厅登上了“世界50最佳餐厅”榜单，但至今没有一家由女性单独主持的餐厅上榜。
The French chef Joël Robuchon’s restaurant in the 7th Arrondissement of Paris, L’ Atelier de Joël Robuchon, fell to No. 63 from No. 31. Mr. Robuchon is a critic of the list, saying it wields too much influence, given what he described as its flawed voting process.
法国主厨乔尔·赫布匈(Joël Robuchon)位于巴黎7区的L’ Atelier de Joël Robuchon从第31位跌到第63位。赫布匈对该榜单持批评态度。他说，鉴于当前的投票程序存有漏洞，这份排名掌握了过大的影响力。
Many chefs have long criticized the awards privately, saying that the judging is arbitrary, not credible and susceptible to corruption. They say that the scales are tipped when some governments sponsor free trips and meals for journalists while others do not; when chefs and restaurateurs make up a third of the voters; and when judges are not required to prove that they have eaten in the restaurants for which they cast ballots.
长久以来，许多厨师在私下批评该奖项，认为它评判主观、可信度不高，容易受腐败影响。他们说，很多因素能让公正的天平倾斜，比如某些国家的政府为记者提供免费的旅游和伙食赞助，而其他国家则不采用这种做法；三分之一有投票权的人是厨师或餐厅老板；裁判不需要提供曾在自己投票支持的餐厅中用过餐的证据。
Last week, after a petition posted by a French group called Occupy 50 Best began to draw signatures, some chefs decided to go public with their objections.
上周，一个名为“占领50最佳餐厅”的法国团体开始征集签名请愿，此后一些大厨决定公开表达他们的不满。
The scope and influence of the 50 Best list has ballooned since it was first published in Britain in 2002 by the trade magazine Restaurant, making it the go-to food guide for globe-trotting gastronomes.
“50最佳餐厅”排名始于2002年，由行业杂志《餐厅》(Restaurant)在英国发布。此后，它涵盖的范围和影响力迅速扩大，使之成为在全球寻觅美食的人士必备的宝典。
The group that administers the awards collects millions of dollars annually in sponsorships from global food and drink brands including San Pellegrino and Veuve Clicquot, and from national governments including those of Peru and Singapore.
管理该奖项的组织每年会获得成百上千万美元的赞助费，赞助方既包括圣培露(San Pellegrino)和凯歌香槟在内的全球食品饮料品牌，也包括一些国家的政府，比如秘鲁和新加坡。
Mr. Robuchon criticized the list in an email to The New York Times on Sunday, saying there is no way to determine if voters have even eaten in the restaurants for which they have cast ballots.
周日，赫布匈在致《纽约时报》的邮件中对这份榜单提出了批评，称那些投票人是否在自己支持的餐厅吃过饭这样的事都无法核实。
“Voters are supposed to have eaten in the restaurants they vote for at least once in the preceding 18 months,” he said. “But no proof of their visit, no expense bill is required, and I know for a fact that this is a major loophole in the process. It gives free rein to the worst maneuvers — cronyism, ‘flip a coin’ voting, geopolitical influence and lobbying.”
“投票人应该在票选前18个月内曾在自己支持的店里至少用过一次餐，”他说。“但没人负责确认他们是否去过，他们也不用提供就餐票据。我很清楚，这就是评选过程中的一大漏洞。它给了投机取巧的花招可乘之机——靠关系、‘抛硬币’随机投票、地缘政治的影响和游说。”
Mr. Robuchon, who has had a restaurant on the list every year and who used to be a member of the jury, said he did not object to the idea of such rankings, but that 50 Best had too much influence given what he described as its sloppy verification process.
赫布匈主持的餐厅每年都榜上有名，他本人也曾是评委会的一员。他表示自己不反对这类排名，但他认为“世界50最佳餐厅”的查证过程颇为草率，名不副实。
This year, 50 Best retained the consulting firm Deloitte to scrutinize and reinforce certain aspects of its voting procedure, but the head of the 50 Best organization, William Drew, said that there were no plans to change the system.
今年，“世界50最佳餐厅”榜单继续聘请了咨询公司德勤(Deloitte)来审核和落实投票程序的部分方面，不过，组织方负责人威廉·德鲁(William Drew)表示，并没有修改评选机制的计划。
“We take our responsibility very seriously and strive to make the voting system as robust as possible.” Mr. Drew said in a statement on Monday. “The list is created from the votes of almost 1,000 independent experts from across the world. Neither the organizers, nor any of the sponsors, can vote or influence the voting or the results.”
“我们极为严肃地对待自身的责任，力求确保投票机制尽可能完善。”德鲁周一发表声明称。“这份榜单是由全球近1000名独立专家投票产生的。组织方和赞助方均没有投票权，也无法影响票选过程或结果。”