HO CHI MINH CITY — Almost every summer, the Vietnamese read about the latest group of students who have committed suicide after failing the university entrance exam. This surprises no one. Suicides are so common that one news website headline posed the question: Is this “exam season or suicide season?”
胡志明市——几乎每个夏天，越南人都会读到最近一批学生在大学入学考试失利后自杀的消息。没人对此感到震惊。自杀现象如此普遍，以至于有个新闻网站贴出了这样的标题：这究竟是“考试季还是自杀季？”
Over the course of two days in July, students take an exam in three subjects that are based on their prospective fields of study. A future history major, for instance, would have a slightly different mix of subjects than a future physics major. The exam is largely an assessment of a student’s ability to remember facts.
每年7月，学生都会在为期两天的时间内，根据自己选择的学习领域进行三个科目的考试。例如，未来学历史的学生与学物理的学生所考的科目就略有不同。考试基本是在考察学生的记忆力。
A month later they find out the results.
结果会在一个月后出来。
This single test determines where Vietnamese students will go to university. In the view of most families, it might as well determine the rest of their lives. The pressure is intense, especially in a country where many poor students need a diploma from a good university to rise into the middle class.
这一场考试将决定越南学生去哪里念大学。在大多数家庭眼中，这个结果或许也决定了他们的后半生的成败。这种压力非常大，特别是越南的很多穷学生都需要一张好大学的文凭来帮他们进入中产阶级。
When I was a high school student in California, my friends and I did our fair share of cramming. But we suffered nothing like the Vietnamese.
当我在加利福尼亚读高中的时候，我的朋友和我也曾经埋头苦读。但是我们从未受过越南学生的那种折磨。
The pressure isn’t the worst of it. It’s the fact that the system — and the students’ fate — hinges on a maddening lack of logic and common sense. Reliance on the single test discounts years of high school work. The test is not the best way to fully assess whether students are ready for higher learning.
压力还不是最糟糕的部分。最糟的是，这个体系——以及学生的命运——竟然建立在一个极度缺乏逻辑和常识的基础之上。一考定终身的制度贬低了几年的高中学习。这种考试并不是判断学生是否已经为高等教育做好了准备的最佳方式。
Growing up in the United States, I had the comfort of knowing that admissions officers at my dream colleges looked beyond S.A.T. scores and understood that exams are an imperfect gauge of intelligence. American universities have the scope to consider extracurricular activities, jobs, personal statements, recommendation letters and grades. They will even consider an artistically-inclined student’s paintings.
在美国长大的我欣慰地知道，我梦想中的大学的招生负责人不会只看SAT（Scholastic Assessment Test，即“学术能力评估测试”）的分数；他们也明白，考试并不能很完善地评估学生的智力。美国大学会结合课外活动、工作、个人陈述、推荐信和绩点进行综合考量。他们甚至还会查看具有艺术天赋的学生的画作。
Vietnamese universities should evaluate a wider range of criteria when judging students. But it will be hard to loosen the grip of the university entrance test. With a centuries-old tradition of civil service exams, Vietnam has long valued standardized assessments.
越南大学在评价学生的时候也应该采取更广的标准。但是，降低大学入学考试的重要性也绝非易事。已有几个世纪的公务员考试传统的越南，一直都很重视标准化的评价标准。
One university official told me they can’t get rid of the exam until there’s quality control at the high school level. There had been a plan to eliminate the exam by 2010, but it was scrapped, in part because of concern over issues like rampant grade inflation.
一名大学管理人员告诉我，在高中拥有质量控制体系之前，他们无法废除大学入学考试。有关部门曾计划到2010年为止取消大学入学考试，但该计划后被取消，其部分原因是人们担心会出现大量分数膨胀(grade inflation)等问题。
“High schools give generous marks to their students in order to get them into the top universities,” said Ngo Thi Phuong Lan, vice rector at one of the country’s most prestigious schools, the University of Social Sciences and Humanities in Ho Chi Minh City.
“为了让学生进入顶尖大学，高中会给他们的学生打高分，”胡志明市社会科学与人文大学(University of Social Sciences and Humanities)副院长吴芳兰(Ngo Thi Phuong Lan)说。该大学是越南最知名的大学之一。
The manipulation of grades underlies a raft of problems. Teachers are routinely bribed. They hold “voluntary” classes after hours, where they charge a fee and dole out material that shows up on quizzes. Cheating is rampant, sometimes with the help of educators.
分数对学生命运的左右导致了一系列问题的产生。向老师行贿的现象很普遍。老师们会在下班后开办“自愿报名的”培训班，收取一定费用，发放少量会出现在测试中的材料。作弊现象猖獗，有时连教育工作者也会参与其中。
The university entrance exam also exposes the country’s yawning inequality. Suicides are more likely among provincial students, who tend to be poorer than their urban peers. Richer students with low scores can afford to wait a year and take another stab at the exam. They also can afford to take extra classes to prepare, like the S.A.T. prep courses in the United States, which similarly contribute to skewed scores in favor of the wealthy.
大学入学考试还暴露了越南严重的不平等现象。自杀的通常是小地方的学生，他们要比城里的学生贫穷。经济条件较好而分数较低的学生可以再等一年，重新考一次。他们也有钱参加课余培训班，与美国的SAT培训班相似，这些培训课程能帮有钱人家的孩子获得较高的分数。
The government is now looking to 2020, when it may allow some colleges to put less weight on the exam and accept students based on high school performance. In 2016, it plans to simplify the test by requiring fewer subjects and administering it in one day, rather than two (which could bring down stress levels). But such reforms still won’t require universities to evaluate candidates holistically.
政府目前把目光放在2020，到时它或许会允许一些大学减小入学考试的分量，并根据学生的高中表现来接收学生。政府计划到2016年时简化考试流程，减少考试科目，将考试时间缩短为一天，而不是原来的两天（这样可以降低压力）。然而，这种改革仍然无法要求大学对学生进行全面考量。
Much as Vietnamese hate to admit it, they have much in common with the Chinese — who ruled them for 1,000 years — not least when it comes to education. College entrance exams that promote rote memorization at the expense of critical thinking are a national obsession for both countries. Thanks to China’s one-child policy and similar campaigns in Vietnam, smaller households put that much more of a burden on children to perform well.
虽然越南人很不愿意承认，但是他们的确与中国极为相似——中国曾统治越南达1000年——尤其是教育方面。这两个国家都很重视提倡死记硬背、抹杀批判性思维的大学入学考试。由于中国的独生子女政策和越南的类似运动，小家庭极大地增加了孩子们的负担，要求他们拿出良好表现。
In China, there is official talk of reforming the nationwide test, or gaokao, so that universities also take into account an applicant’s other merits. If Vietnam follows suit, universities here could have greater flexibility in recruitment. Then they could give students more freedom to become well-rounded learners — rather than just stellar test-takers.
中国官方也表示要改革中国的全国性考试高考，如此一来，大学也要考虑申请者的其他优势。如果越南也这样做，那么越南大学在招生方面就将拥有更大的灵活性。学生也将获得更多自由，成为全面发展的学习者，而不只是擅长考试的人。