The phrase almost completes itself: Midlife … crisis. It’s the stage in the middle of the journey when people feel youth vanishing, their prospects narrowing and death approaching. So they become undone. The red Corvette pops up in the driveway. Stupidity reigns.
“中年……危机”，只要说出前两个字，你大概就会补充出后两个字。这是一个走到旅途中间，发觉青春不再、前景堪忧、死期将至的阶段。于是，他们觉得一切都完了。买辆花里胡哨的跑车。开始做些愚蠢的事。
There’s only one problem with the cliché. It isn’t true.
这个老生常谈的说法只有一个问题，那就是它根本就不是真的。
“In fact, there is almost no hard evidence for midlife crisis at all, other than a few small pilot studies conducted decades ago,” Barbara Bradley Hagerty writes in her new book, “Life Reimagined.” The vast bulk of the research shows that there may be a pause, or a shifting of gears in the 40s or 50s, but this shift “can be exhilarating, rather than terrifying.”
“实际上，几乎根本就没有中年危机存在的确凿证据，只有几十年前做过的一些规模不大的试点研究，”芭芭拉·布拉德利·哈格蒂(Barbara Bradley Hagerty)在其新书《重新设想生活》(Life Reimagined)中写道。大量研究表明，人在四五十岁时，可能会出现短暂的停滞，或是转变，但这种转变“可以是振奋人心的，而不是骇人听闻”。
Bradley Hagerty looks at some of the features of people who turn midlife into a rebirth. They break routines, because “autopilot is death.” They choose purpose over happiness — having a clear sense of purpose even reduces the risk of Alzheimer’s. They put relationships at the foreground, as career often recedes.
布拉德利·哈格蒂对一些将中年转变为重生的人的特点进行了研究，发现他们都打破了常规，因为“闷头走下去就是死亡了”。他们选择追求目标，而不是安逸生活。有明确的目标意识甚至能降低患上阿尔茨海默氏症的风险。他们把伴侣关系放在了最重要的位置，而事业往往会退居次要地位。
“Life Reimagined” paints a portrait of middle age that is far from grim and decelerating. Midlife begins to seem like the second big phase of decision-making. Your identity has been formed; you know who you are; you’ve built up your resources; and now you have the chance to take the big risks precisely because your foundation is already secure.
《重新设想生活》描述的中年根本不可怕，也一点都没减速。中年变得像第二个重大的决策阶段。处于这个阶段的人个性已经形成、对自己有清楚的认识、积累了一定的资源，并且因为根基已经牢固，有了承担更大风险的机遇。
The theologian Karl Barth described midlife in precisely this way. At middle age, he wrote, “the sowing is behind; now is the time to reap. The run has been taken; now is the time to leap. Preparation has been made; now is the time for the venture of the work itself.”
神学家卡尔·巴特(Karl Barth)描述的中年也正是这样的。他写道，人到中年，“播种已是过去，该收获了；助跑已经完成，该跳跃了；准备已经做好，该冒险尝试了。”
The middle-aged person, Barth continued, can see death in the distance, but moves with a “measured haste” to get big new things done while there is still time.
巴特接着表示，中年人能看到远处的死神，但也会在尚有时日的时候，“适当加速”行动，争取完成新的重大目标。
What Barth wrote decades ago is even truer today. People are healthy and energetic longer. We have presidential candidates running for their first term in office at age 68, 69 and 74. Greater longevity is changing the narrative structure of life itself.
巴特几十年前写下的内容，放在眼下甚至更真实。人们保持健康和活力的时间延长了。我们的总统候选人分别是68、69和74岁。寿命的延长，改变了人生本身的叙事结构。
The elongation of vital life has changed the phases of life. The most obvious change is the emergence of the odyssey years. People between age 20 and the early 30s can now take a little more time to try on new career options, new cities and new partners.
充满活力的生活延长了，这也改变了人生的阶段。最显著的变化是出现了“奥德赛时期”。现在，20岁到30出头的人可以有更多的时间来尝试新的职业选择、新的城市和新的伴侣。
However, another profound but more hidden change is the altered shape of middle age. What could have been considered the beginning of a descent is now a potential turning point — the turning point you are most equipped to take full advantage of.
然而，另一个深刻但却更隐蔽的变化是，中年的形态变了。本来会被视作开始走下坡路的时期，现在成了一个潜在的转折点——此刻，人们已经做好准备，可以充分利用。
It is the moment when you can look back on your life so far and see it with different eyes. Hopefully you’ve built up some wisdom, which, as the psychologists define it, means seeing the world with more compassion, grasping opposing ideas at the same time, tolerating ambiguity and reacting with equanimity to the small setbacks of life.
此刻，你可以用不同的视角去回首早年的经历。希望人到此时已经积累了一些智慧，正如心理学家定义的那样，这意味着看待这个世界时更有同情心、同时理解截然相反的观点、包容模棱两可的现象、坦然应对生活中的小挫折。
By middle age you might begin to see, retrospectively, the dominant motifs that have been running through your various decisions. You might begin to see how all your different commitments can be integrated into one meaning and purpose. You might see the social problem your past has made you uniquely equipped to tackle. You might have enough clarity by now to orient your life around a true north on some ultimate horizon.
人到中年，可能会从自己的各种决定中，观察到贯穿始终的主题。你可能会开始看到，各种不同的信念都可以归结到同一个意义和目标之上。你可能会发现，过往的经历让自己格外适合解决一个社会问题。到这时，你可能会有足够明确的认识，让某个终极目标成为生活真正的中心。
Lincoln, for example, found in midlife that everything so far had prepared him to preserve the Union and end slavery. The rest of us don’t have causes that grand, but plenty of people bring their life to a point. They dive fully into existing commitments, or embrace new ones.
比如，林肯到中年时发现，在那之前的一切都是为他维护联邦和终结奴隶制所做的准备。我们其他人没有这么宏伟的事业，但很多人都会让生活有一个重心。他们要么会全身心投入已有的责任，要么会扛起新的责任。
Either way, with a little maturity, they’re less likely by middle age to be blinded by ego, more likely to know what it is they actually desire, more likely to get out of their own way, and maybe a little less likely, given all the judgments that have been made, to care about what other people think.
不管怎样，因为已经比较成熟，他们不太可能到中年时还受自负的蒙蔽。他们更有可能知道自己真正想要的是什么，更有可能走出原有的处事方式。考虑到经受过别人怎样的指摘，他们也就不会那么在意别人的想法了。
The people who find meaning at this stage often realize the way up is down.
在这个阶段找到意义的人通常会意识到，沉住气才能向上走。
They get off that supervisor’s perch and put themselves in direct contact with the people they can help the most. They accept that certain glorious youthful dreams won’t be realized, but other, more relational jobs turn out to be more fulfilling.
他们会放下居高临下的姿态，与自己能给予最多帮助的人直接接触。他们也会接受，年轻时的某些光辉梦想不会实现，其他一些更注重人际关系的工作，原来更有成就感。
They achieve a kind of tranquillity, not because they’ve decided to do nothing, but because they’ve achieved focus and purity of will. They have enough self-confidence, and impatience, to say no to some things so they can say yes to others.
他们会达到一种平和，不是因为他们决定什么都不做，而是因为他们已经做到了精力集中，心无旁骛。他们有足够的自信和急切感对一些事情说不，这样他们才能对其他事情说是。
From this perspective, middle age is kind of inspiring. Many of life’s possibilities are now closed, but limitation is often liberating. The remaining possibilities can be seized more bravely, and lived more deeply.
从这个角度来说，中年阶段有些让人欢欣鼓舞。人生的很多可能性这时都结束了，但限制往往也是解脱。人们可以更勇敢地抓住剩下的可能性，更深入地投入其中。