MELBOURNE, Australia — A solid majority of Australians voted in favor of same-sex marriage in a historic survey that, while not binding, paves the way for Parliament to legally recognize the unions of gay and lesbian couples.
澳大利亚墨尔本——在一项具有历史意义的调查中，大多数澳大利亚民众支持同性婚姻。该投票虽然不具约束力，却为议会在法律上承认同性恋伴侣的结合铺平了道路。
Of 12.7 million Australians who took part in the survey, 61.6 percent voted yes and 38.4 percent voted no, officials announced on Wednesday morning. Participation was high, with 79.5 percent of voting-age Australians taking part.
根据周三的官方声明，有1270万澳大利亚民众参与了本次调查，其中，61.6%投了赞成票，38.4%投了反对票。本次投票的参与率也非常高，79.5%在投票年龄段的澳大利亚民众参与其中。
“The Australian people have spoken, and they have voted overwhelmingly ‘yes’ for marriage equality,” said Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, who had called the national survey as a way to put pressure on conservative lawmakers, many from his own party. “They voted ‘yes’ for fairness, they voted ‘yes’ for commitment, they voted ‘yes’ for love.”
“澳大利亚人民发声了，他们为婚姻平权投了压倒性的‘支持’票，”澳大利亚总理马尔科姆·特恩布尔(Malcolm Turnbull)说。他认为这次全国性调查是在给保守的议员施压，而这些议员大多来自他所在的自由党。“他们的‘支持’票是为公正而投，为承诺而投，为爱而投。”
The results were announced as proponents of gay rights gathered at public events in cities around the country to watch the news. The largest crowd, Prince Alfred Park in Sydney, broke into cheers as the news became clear.
宣布投票结果时，全国同性恋权益的支持者们在各个城市的公共场所集合，一起看新闻。在悉尼阿尔弗雷德王子公园(Prince Alfred Park)聚集的人最多。在消息出来后，人群爆发出了热烈的欢呼。
“This is our proudest moment as gay and lesbian Australians,” said Chris Lewis, 60, an artist from Sydney, who waved a large rainbow flag he bought in San Francisco about 30 years ago. “Finally I can be proud of my country.”
“这是我们作为澳大利亚同性恋者最自豪的时刻，”来自悉尼的60岁艺术家克里斯·刘易斯(Chris Lewis)说道，他手中挥舞着一面大约30年前在旧金山买的彩虹旗，“我终于可以为我的祖国感到自豪了。”
Annika Lowry, 42, who brought her four-year-old daughter to the celebration, said the vote “was not just about us — it’s for our kids, so that they know equality is important.”
带着4岁女儿来庆祝的42岁的安妮卡·劳丽(Annika Lowry)说，投票“不只是为了我们——也是为了我们的孩子，为了让他们知道平等的重要。”
“It shows that Australians have truly come together in support of their gay and lesbian mates and have said that everybody should be able to have the freedom to marry,” said Alex Greenwich, a state lawmaker from New South Wales and the co-chairman of Australian Marriage Equality, an advocacy group.
“这表现出澳大利亚人为了支持他们的同性恋伙伴真正地站在了一起，为‘每个人都应该有结婚的自由’发了声。”澳大利亚新南威尔士议员、倡导组织“澳大利亚婚姻平等”(Australian Marriage Equality)联合主席亚力克斯·格林尼治(Alex Greenwich)说。
In calling for the national survey, Mr. Turnbull sought public backing for a shift in social policy that was opposed by many members of his center-right Liberal Party.
为了支持这次全国性调查，特恩布尔寻求民众作为后盾，希望在社会政策上做出转变。他所在的中间偏右的自由党许多成员并不支持这种转变。
Mr. Turnbull voted yes, and urged other Australians to do so as a matter of fairness, seeking to blunt opposition from far-right members of his party.
特恩布尔投了赞成票，也呼吁其他澳大利亚民众为了公正这么做，希望以此削弱来自他所在政党极右派成员的反对。
“My commitment was to give every Australian their say,” Mr. Turnbull said after the results were announced. “That has been done, they have spoken.”
“我承诺要给每个澳大利亚人发声的机会，”特恩布尔在投票结果宣布后说，“这一点做到了，他们发声了。”
He added: “Now it is up to us, here in the Parliament of Australia, to get on with it — to get on with the job the Australian people have tasked us to do, and get this done, this year, before Christmas.”
他补充道：“现在该轮到我们——我们澳大利亚议会——行动了，开始着手澳大利亚人民安排给我们的任务，并且在今年、在圣诞节之前，完成它。”
Dean Smith, a federal senator from the right-leaning Liberal Party, who is gay, said that he would immediately introduce a bill to legalize same-sex marriage. He said on Tuesday that he believed he had the votes to pass the legislation in the Senate and send it to Parliament’s lower house for approval.
身为同性恋的右倾自由党联邦参议员迪恩·史密斯(Dean Smith)表示，他将即刻提交一个同性婚姻合法化的议案。他在周二表示，他相信自己能获得足够的支持票在参议院中通过立法，并将议案交由众议院批准。
Opponents of same-sex marriage, who had campaigned vigorously, acknowledged defeat. Lyle Shelton, a Christian lobbyist who was the “no” campaign’s most outspoken advocate, said he would begrudgingly “accept the democratic decision.”
曾努力四处游说反对同性婚姻的人士也承认了失败。基督徒说客莱尔·谢尔顿(Lyle Shelton)曾是反对活动最高调的支持者，也表示会勉强“接受民主决定”。
“Millions of Australians will always believe the truth about marriage, that it’s between one man and one woman,” Mr. Shelton said. “It could take years, if not decades, to win that back.”
“数百万澳大利亚人民将永远相信婚姻的真理，那就是它存在于一男一女之间，”谢尔顿说，“可能会花上几年，或者几十年，才能扭转局面。”