Kevin Kwan’s brand of giddy wealth porn arrived in 2013 with “Crazy Rich Asians,” not a moment too soon to rescue a worn-out and useless genre. The vulgar rich had taken over reality TV, fictionalized TV (which seemed tepid by comparison), the occasional freakish documentary (like “The Queen of Versailles”) and the kind of fiction that heard its sell-by knell when “Bergdorf Blondes” and all its copycats came along. There was nothing new to be said about crass New Yorkers, Texans, Hollywood types or even tech billionaires, whose excesses weren’t usually that showy. A whole money-wasting continent had been milked dry.
2013年，凯文·关(Kevin Kwan)在小说《疯狂的亚洲富人》(Crazy Rich Asians)中带来了对财富轻浮的色情描写，颇具标志性，适时挽救了一个陈旧无用的类型。粗俗的富人一度充斥电视真人秀和虚构的电视节目（相比之下，虚构的节目显得有些平庸）；为他们拍下的纪录片有时略为变态（比如《凡尔赛宫的女王》[The Queen of Versailles]）；以他们为主角的小说等到《波道夫的金发女郎》(Bergdorf Blondes)和跟风作品一出来，马上就会销声匿迹。关于那些粗鲁的纽约人、得州人、好莱坞人甚至靠科技发家的亿万富豪，已经没什么好说，他们的奢靡行为通常没那么引人注目。这片挥金如土的大陆早已被挤干了。
But along came Mr. Kwan with a knowing attitude and all of Asia at his disposal. His Asian readers may get his à clef references best, but for those of us who have to check out his claims, it barely matters whether Ming Ka-Ching is the real name of Hong Kong’s second-richest man. If he doesn’t exist, Mr. Kwan has done well to invent him for “China Rich Girlfriend,” the second volume in what has been projected as a gossipy, good-humored trilogy that will follow the richest old families of Singapore, Hong Kong and a few from mainland China. They join in a single shared pursuit: watching in horror as their youngest generations squander money in ways so staggering that Western show-offs look like pikers by comparison.
但是现在有了关先生，他有着洞悉世事的态度，整个亚洲都在他笔下，任他调遣。亚洲读者们可能最能理解他笔下的影射，但对于我们这些还得去查他在说什么意思的读者，明嘉清(Ming Ka-Ching)究竟是不是香港第二大富豪的真名完全无关紧要。如果这个人根本不存在，那么关先生在他的《中国富女友》(China Rich Girlfriend)中也成功地创造出了这个人物，本书是他三部曲小说的第二卷，这个幽默、八卦的系列讲述新加坡、香港几个最富有的古老家族，以及几个来自中国大陆的家族的故事。这些人有一个共同之处：满心恐惧地看着家族中最年轻的一代大摇大摆地挥金如土，西方式的摆阔和他们相比都是小菜一碟。
“Crazy Rich Asians” and “China Rich Girlfriend” have two nice, sensible main characters, just so these books can’t be called totally insulting. They are Nick Young, a humble New York University professor who comes from such a powerful, venerable family that he stands to inherit an estate in the heart of Singapore that’s the size of Central Park, and Rachel Chu, who was raised in the United States by her Chinese mother. Rachel has never known who her father was, but this is the book in which she finds out. He turns out to be — you might want to sit down for this — such a wealthy and important Chinese politician that Rachel isn’t just rich. She is “China rich,” with those words used together as a single modifying phrase.
《疯狂的亚洲富人》和《中国富女友》里有两个正派、明理的主角，所以这两本书算不上彻头彻尾的冒犯。一位是尼克·杨(Nick Young)，一个谦逊的纽约大学教授，来自一个颇有权力的豪门，他即将继承一处地产，位于新加坡的中心地带，面积和中央公园差不多大；另一位是瑞秋·朱(Rachel Chu)，她母亲是中国人，她在美国长大，之前一直不知道自己的生父是谁，不过在这本书里她找到了父亲。原来他就是——你可得坐稳，听好——一位有钱有势的中国政治家，这下瑞秋不仅成了有钱人，她还成了“中国有钱人”——“中国”和“有钱人”这两个词放在一起，已经是一个固定搭配了。
And it is “Kwan crazy” for her father to accept her instantly, even though he never knew she existed. In fact, if he didn’t have a wife who won’t have anything to do with Rachel, this would be a much shorter book. But Mr. Kwan has so much more to pack into it. He wants to fill it with lots of other, much more laughable new-money specimens, and to drop the brand names of everything they wear, eat, envy or acquire. He wants to explore their values, if that’s the word: It seems that everyone is flagrantly competitive, always boastful, with no sense of shame where conspicuous consumption is concerned.
关带着自己特有的狂热，描写她的父亲是怎样马上接受了她，尽管他之前根本就不知道她的存在。他已经有了妻子，她不愿意和瑞秋扯上丝毫关系，要不是因为她，这本书本来可以短得多。但是关还有那么多东西要写。他还想在书里塞进好多其他东西，好多典型暴发户的笑话，好多他们日常生活里的品牌名字：吃的、穿的、觊觎的、获取的。他想探究他们的价值观——如果“价值观”这个词适合用在这里：每个人都非常有竞争意识，总在夸夸其谈，在大肆挥霍时毫无羞耻之心。
Of course, we know the rules of this game: The more hateful a character, the more fun he is to read about. And most of the hateful specimens in “China Rich Asians” are social-climbing husbands who want their wives to be more decorative, even if the men are using the wives’ fortunes to make themselves look important. It seems especially Eastern for a man like Michael Teo, who parlayed his initial success with a tech start-up into a marriage to Astrid Leo, who is one of “the Medicis of Asia” and quite an It girl herself, to blame her for their inability to social climb.
当然，我们都知道游戏的规则：一个角色越招人恨，他在小说里就显得越好玩。《疯狂的亚洲富人》里大多数招人恨的典型都是努力想获得更高社会地位的丈夫，他们希望妻子更像花瓶，就算是用妻子的钱来炫富的人也不例外。比如迈克尔·特奥(Michael Teo)，他靠着和阿斯特丽德·里奥(Astrid Leo)的婚姻启动了自己的技术公司，掘到了第一桶金；他的妻子堪称“亚洲的美第奇”之一，本身也是个It女郎，特奥却说是她让他俩不能登上更高的社会地位，这个情节显得特别东方。
When Michael reads in one of the society columns that are hilariously reprinted here, misspellings and all, that Astrid’s jewels aren’t blingy enough, he flies into a fury of inadequacy. This leads him to try to buy one of Singapore’s rarest architectural masterpieces and turn its ground floor into a museum for his car collection, which includes a car from “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off”; fortunately, his offer is turned down. Later, Michael talks to a magazine reporter whom he has stupidly let into his inner sanctum, his personal dressing room, where he keeps an original version of the Emancipation Proclamation to “be reminded of who I am.”
后来迈克尔读到一篇上流社会的专栏（小说里令人捧腹地引用了这些专栏，里面有各种拼写错误），说阿斯特丽德的首饰不够闪亮夺目，他顿时感到一阵无能为力的暴怒。最后他试着去买下新加坡最珍贵的建筑杰作，准备把它的一层变成博物馆，展示自己的汽车收藏，其中包括一辆来自电影《春天不是读书天》(Ferris Bueller’s Day Off)里的车；好在他的出价被拒绝了。后来，迈克尔接受一个杂志记者采访，愚蠢地带他进了自己的私人圣殿——他的私人更衣室，他在里面放了一份林肯的《解放奴隶宣言》(Emancipation Proclamation)原件，以此“提醒自己，我究竟是谁”。
Oh, there’s so much more where that came from. Mr. Kwan has good aim with his fashion world- and ego-skewering shivs. And regardless of how reality-based these characters may be, he has his style references down cold. He has a good enough antenna about what is well-known in Asia and perhaps Europe to keep American readers surprised and inquisitive. He knows snarky things about biases that separate the different regions, as in a wicked scene that has a Net-a-Porter-type company staging a fashion show for its wealthiest Asian customers, only to insult them with what they deem overly Chinese styles rather than globally chic ones.
书里还有更多这些东西。关对时尚世界和人物做了有的放矢的尖锐批评。尽管这些角色可能是建立在现实生活基础上，但他影射的风格非常冷静。他对于那些亚洲名人，或许还有欧洲名人有着很敏锐的感觉，可以让美国读者感到惊奇或好奇。他了解地域偏见中糟糕的东西，比如说，书中有这样的悲惨一幕，一个类似Net-a-Porter的公司为亚洲最富有的客户举办一场时装秀，但只是让他们觉得受到侮辱，因为他们觉得内容都是些中国风情的东西，没有全球化的时髦服装。
“These clothes are straight off the runway!” the company’s founder protests.
“这些衣服都是直接拿上秀台的！”公司的创始人抗议。
“Which runway would that be?” complains one of the insulted potential customers. “Urumqi airport?” (naming one in northwestern China). She goes on to complain that she finds it patronizing to see “all this dragon and phoenix rubbish,” not to mention “Russian ice-skater outfits,” and concludes, “there isn’t a single dress I’ve seen so far that we would even let our maids be caught dead in!”
“这算什么秀台？”一个自觉受到侮辱的潜在客户抱怨，“乌鲁木齐机场秀台？”（这是中国西北的一个地名）。她接着抱怨说，看这些“龙啊凤啊的垃圾”实在是太掉价了，更别提那些“俄罗斯溜冰服”，最后说，“看了半天，连一件能给女佣人当寿衣的衣服都没有。”
So whatever clichés Mr. Kwan may be playing on, they’re not the ones about the mysterious East.
所以，就算关先生写的都是陈词滥调，他笔下这些人也不是来自“神秘的东方”。