A peek under the hood of three new cars from Volvo, Buick and Cadillac will not reveal a Made in China label. But those cars are breaking new ground in the auto industry, becoming the first to be manufactured in the People’s Republic and exported to the United States.
打开沃尔沃(Volvo)、别克(Buick)和凯迪拉克(Cadillac)的三款新车的引擎盖，乍一看没有“Made in China”（中国制造）的标签。但它们是第一批中国制造并出口到美国的车型，在汽车行业中具有开创性意义。
Sweden’s Volvo, now owned by Geely Auto of China, has shipped more than 1,000 copies of its S60 Inscription.
瑞典的沃尔沃现在是中国吉利汽车旗下的品牌，其S60 Inscription已经出货逾1000辆。
Buick, desperate to fill the most glaring hole in its lineup, the compact crossover, will import the Envision.
别克急于填补其产品线中紧凑跨界车型这个最显眼的空白，为此将会进口昂科威(Envision)。
And this month, Cadillac announced that it would export a plug-in hybrid version of its new CT6 flagship sedan from China, supplementing production of the standard version from its Detroit-Hamtramck plant.
本月，凯迪拉克也宣布将从中国进口新的CT6旗舰轿车插电式混合动力版，作为对其底特律-哈姆特拉米克工厂生产的标准版的补充。
The arrival of Chinese-made cars has surprised some people in the United States, particularly United Auto Workers leaders who objected to General Motors’ decision to begin selling the Buick Envision starting this July.
中国产汽车的登陆，令一些美国人感到惊讶，特别是全美汽车工人联合会（United Automobile Workers，简称UAW）的领导人，他们对通用汽车公司(General Motors)从今年7月起开始销售别克昂科威的决定表示反对。
But it is the culmination of a long-promised, never-fulfilled vision, and their introduction stands in stark contrast to 2007, when Chinese automakers stormed auto shows in America, making bold promises that they would soon open showrooms here.
但这是一个早就许下承诺、却一直没有实现的愿景在成真，它与2007年时的情况形成了鲜明对比，当时中国汽车商蜂拥到美国汽车展上，大胆承诺将很快在美国开设展销厅。
But the mainly low-budget cars appeared dowdy, primitive, even potentially unsafe. Not one Chinese-branded car cracked the American market, though companies like Guangzhou Automobile continue to float the idea.
但是他们的产品主要是低价车，大多显得过时而粗陋，甚至可能不太安全。虽然广汽等公司一直在做尝试，但中国品牌的汽车一直都没有敲开美国市场的大门。
Since that time, much has changed. Global and Chinese automakers have partnered to produce more sophisticated models, including Buicks and BMWs, that are familiar faces around the world. Geely’s trophy purchase of Volvo has given it a trusted name that is synonymous with safety.
在那之后，情况发生了变化。全球汽车制造商和中国同行合作，生产包括别克和宝马在内的汽车，这些比较高档的车型在全球各地妇孺皆知。沃尔沃是安全的代名词，吉利收购它之后，拥有了一个备受信赖的品牌。
Chinese cars do remain an unknown quantity to consumers, who were also once leery of the first cars imported from Japan — and later, from Mexico and South Korea.
对于消费者来说，中国汽车仍然是一个未知数，不过大家一开始对日本进口的汽车——以及后来的墨西哥车和韩国车——也曾经有过疑虑。
Michael Harley, editor in chief of AutoWeb, said that top automakers had solved those puzzles of global manufacturing, and they understood the stakes in American showrooms.
AutoWeb的主编迈克尔·哈雷(Michael Harley)说，顶级汽车制造商已经解决了全球制造的谜题，他们明白在美国汽车展销厅要面临怎样的风险。
“When Hyundai first brought Korean cars here, they didn’t realize the scrutiny Americans would put on them, and the poor quality almost destroyed the Hyundai brand,” Mr. Harley said. “Today, companies like Volvo and G.M. know they have to build a world-class product to present to American consumers, and there’s no getting around it.”
“现代(Hyundai)最初把韩国车带到美国时，没有意识到会在这里遭受怎样的审视，低劣的质量差点砸了现代的牌子，”哈雷说。“如今，像沃尔沃和通用汽车这样的品牌就知道，他们必须为美国消费者提供世界一流的产品，除此之外别无他法。”
In November, Aaron Ezrilov became one of the first Americans to drive a Chinese-built car, though he didn’t realize it until a salesman told him while signing the Volvo S60 Inscription lease. Mr. Ezrilov, a longtime Volvo loyalist and a federal solutions director for Resolute Partners, felt the briefest flash of anxiety. But he has been closely going over the car ever since and fell in love on a fast canyon run to San Juan Capistrano from his home in Canyon Lake, Calif.
去年11月，亚伦·艾瑞洛夫(Aaron Ezrilov)是第一批驾驶中国产汽车的美国人之一。开始他并没有意识到这一点，直到在签沃尔沃S60 Inscription的购车协议，销售员告知他时，他才发现。艾瑞洛夫是Resolute Partners公司联邦解决方案总监，一直都是沃尔沃的忠实用户。当时他有过一瞬间的焦虑。但是之后，他常常驾驶这辆车，从加州峡谷湖的家出发，穿过峡谷，前往圣胡安卡皮斯特拉诺，他喜欢上了这辆车。
“The doors ‘thud’ when you close them, and I’m not finding any corners cut or cosmetic flaws at all,” Mr. Ezrilov said, adding that he was impressed enough to pick up a second Inscription for his mother.
“车门‘吧嗒’一下就关上了，完全找不到任何毛刺，也没有装饰上的缺陷，”艾瑞洛夫说，他对这车印象很好，所以又给他母亲买了一辆。
Katarina Fjording, Volvo’s vice president for purchasing and manufacturing in the Americas, helped create Volvo’s Chinese factory in Chengdu.
卡塔琳娜·菲约尔丁(Katarina Fjording)是沃尔沃美洲采购和制造副总裁，她参与了沃尔沃的中国成都工厂的修建工作。
“When I went to China, I had doubts about what it would be like, especially in a remote area,” she said. “But I’ve been proven wrong many times.”
“我前往中国时，对那里会出现什么样的情况怀有一些疑虑，尤其那是在一个偏远地区，”她说。“但事实已经多次证明，是我想错了。”
The biggest cultural challenge, Ms. Fjording said, was to encourage Chinese workers to suggest improvements without fear of repercussions.
菲约尔丁说，最大的文化挑战就是鼓励中国工人提出改进意见，而不必担心负面影响。
“It’s not natural to speak up like that, but now they’re very good at it. You see the joy, how they appreciate that you listen.”
“他们像那样提意见不是很自然，但现在他们都做得很好。你看得出他们很开心，对你能倾听他们的意见感到高兴。”
Some Chengdu workers had previous automotive factory experience and were willing to move thousands of miles for a better job and life.
成都的一些工人以前也在汽车厂工作过，为了拥有更好的工作和生活，他们愿意搬到数千里之外的地方。
“It takes a long time to build a good reputation, and only a day to ruin it, so it wouldn’t make any sense for us to produce something that’s not good,” Ms. Fjording said.
“建立良好的口碑需要很长时间，破坏它只需要一天，所以对于我们来说，生产低质产品没有任何意义，”菲约尔丁说。
For General Motors’ Buick brand, China is driving the best sales in its 112-year history, with America the outlier: Buick built and sold more than one million cars in China last year, compared with 223,000 here. So exporting the Envision, a Chinese award-winning sport utility vehicle, is a natural, considering America’s growing appetite for small crossovers, said Duncan Aldred, Buick’s vice president for sales.
对于通用汽车的别克品牌来说，中国市场正在推动其112年历史中最好的一波销售势头，但美国是个例外：去年，别克在中国制造和销售了上百万辆汽车，在美国却只有22.3万辆。因此，别克的销售副总裁邓肯·奥尔德雷德(Duncan Aldred)说，鉴于美国人越来越喜欢小型跨界车型，把中国制造的获奖越野车昂科威出口到美国，也是顺理成章的事情。
“It’s the biggest sales segment, and we need to be in there,” he said.
“这是最大的销售门类，我们需要参与，”他说。
Mr. Aldred said that, ultimately, American consumers were more interested in a product’s design and performance than where it’s assembled.
奥尔德雷德说，美国消费者在意的终归是产品的设计和性能，而不是它们的组装地点。
“It’s the same model used by iPhone,” Mr. Aldred said of the Chinese-built product. “Most people have one in their pocket and pay a premium for that device.”
“这和iPhone的模式是一样的。大多数人口袋里都揣着iPhone，人们花了高价来买它。”奥尔德雷德说。iPhone也是在中国制造的。
Mr. Harley said that American consumers were buying a brand, not a country of manufacture.
哈雷说，美国消费者看重的是品牌，而不是产地。
“Germans are building cars in South Carolina, but no one says you’re driving a South Carolina BMW,” Mr. Harley said. “It’s still a German car, and as long as quality is equal or better, consumers aren’t going to care.”
“德国正在南卡罗来纳州制造汽车，但没有人说你开的是南卡罗来纳州制造的宝马，”哈雷说。“它仍然是德国汽车，只要质量一样或者更好，消费者是不会在意的。”
Mr. Ezrilov agreed, saying that he wasn’t concerned about the Volvo’s provenance but about its performance and a back seat that could fit his six-foot-plus teenage son.
艾瑞洛夫同意这个看法，他说，他关心的不是沃尔沃的产地，而是它的性能，以及它的后座能塞下身高超过六英尺的十多岁儿子。
“I believe in fair trade,” Mr. Ezrilov said.
“我相信公平贸易，”艾瑞洛夫说。
Such globalization arguments haven’t swayed Cindy Estrada, vice president of the United Auto Workers. She said G.M. was welcome to build cars in China to serve the world’s largest car market. But Ms. Estrada, who led negotiations that resulted in a four-year G.M. labor deal last fall, minutes before a strike deadline, said the company was breaking its oft-stated pledge to “build where you sell.”
这种全球化的论点并没有动摇UAW副会长辛迪·埃斯特拉达(Cindy Estrada)的立场。她说，通用汽车公司大可到中国去为全球最大的汽车市场生产产品，但该公司打破了再三声明的承诺，即“在销售产品的地方制造产品”。去年秋天，埃斯特拉达领导了一场谈判，在罢工期限到来的最后关头，通用汽车同意签订了一个为期四年的用工合同。
“If you’re looking to rebuild the company and invest in workers, you don’t go and bring in something from China,” Ms. Estrada said. “We have to hold them accountable to build vehicles here.”
“如果你想重建公司，想在员工身上投资，你不会去把中国生产的东西引进来，”埃斯特拉达说。“我们要对他们问责，让他们在这里生产汽车。”
Mr. Aldred replied that Buick continued to invest in American manufacturing, including an all-new LaCrosse sedan at Buick’s Detroit-Hamtramck plant. Buick headquarters, including its global design and engineering, will always remain in suburban Detroit, he said.
奥尔德雷德回答说，别克一直在美国制造领域投资，其中包括别克在底特律-哈姆特拉米克工厂生产全新的君越轿车。他说别克的总部，包括全球设计和工程部门，也将永远留在底特律的市郊。
“We’re a proudly American brand, the oldest in the U.S. industry, and also a great international success story,” he said.
“我们是一个自豪的美国品牌，是美国汽车业中历史最悠久的公司，也是在国际上大获成功的企业，”他说。
As for Volvo, the next challenge for the globe-hopping Ms. Fjording takes her to South Carolina. She is coaxing Volvo’s first American factory into existence, scheduled to build a next-generation S60 by 2018.
沃尔沃方面，在全球奔波的菲约尔丁面临着下一个挑战：把这个品牌引进到南卡罗来纳州。她正在为修建美国的第一家沃尔沃工厂做努力，计划到2018年生产新一代S60。
One target is already affirmed: If the South Carolina plant can match the quality of its Chinese models, she said, the company would “absolutely” be satisfied.
她表示，已经确立的一个目标是：如果南卡罗来纳州这家工厂的产品质量，能达到中国产沃尔沃的水平，该公司“绝对”就满足了。