IN the summer of 1916, a young Oxford academic embarked for France as a second lieutenant in the British Expeditionary Force. The Great War, as World War I was known, was only half-done, but already its industrial carnage had no parallel in European history.
1916年夏，一位年轻的牛津教师作为英国远征军少尉，乘船开赴法国。当时被称为“大战争”的“一战”正进行到一半，不过它的机械化大屠杀已经造成了欧洲史无前例的伤亡。
“Junior officers were being killed off, a dozen a minute,” recalled J. R. R. Tolkien. “Parting from my wife,” he wrote, doubting that he would survive the trenches, “was like a death.”
“低级军官成批地阵亡，一分钟就死十几个，”J·R·R·托尔金(J. R. R. Tolkien)回忆，怀疑自己无法从战场上生还。他写道，“离开我的妻子，和死掉没什么两样。”
The 24-year-old Tolkien arrived in time to take part in the Battle of the Somme, a campaign intended to break the stalemate between the Allies and Central Powers. It did not.
24岁的托尔金来到战场时，正好赶上参加索姆河战役，这场战役旨在打破协约国和同盟国之间的僵局，但是这一目标未能实现。
The first day of the battle, July 1, produced a frenzy of bloodletting. Unaware that its artillery had failed to obliterate the German dugouts, the British Army rushed to slaughter.
7月1日，战役第一天，就发生了疯狂的杀戮。英军不知道己方炮火未能攻破德军的掩体，大举冲上前去，死伤惨重。
Before nightfall, 19,240 British soldiers — Prime Minister David Lloyd George called them “the choicest and best of our young manhood” — lay dead. That day, 100 years ago, remains the most lethal in Britain’s military history.
夜晚降临之前，共有19240名英国士兵战死——戴维·劳合·乔治(David Lloyd George)首相称他们是“我们最出类拔萃的年轻人”。100年前的那一天，至今仍是是英国战争史上死亡人数最多的一天。
Though the debt is largely overlooked, Tolkien’s supreme literary achievement, “The Lord of the Rings,” owes a great deal to his experience at the Somme. Reaching the front shortly after the offensive began, Tolkien served for four months as a battalion signals officer with the 11th Lancashire Fusiliers in the Picardy region of France.
托尔金的杰作《指环王》(The Lord of the Rings)很大程度上来源于他在索姆河战役中的经历，不过这个来源常常被人们忽视。攻势开始后不久，托尔金就来到前线，在驻扎法国皮卡第地区的第11兰开夏燧发枪团(Lancashire Fusiliers)当了四个月的营级信号官。
Using telephones, flares, signal lights, pigeons and runners, he maintained communications between the army staff directing the battles from the rear and the officers in the field. According to the British historian Martin Gilbert, who interviewed Tolkien decades later about his combat experience, he came under intense enemy fire. He had heard “the fearful cries of men who had been hit,” Gilbert wrote. “Tolkien and his signalers were always vulnerable.”
他使用电话、照明弹、信号灯、鸽子和士兵，让后方指挥官和战场上的军官保持联络。几十年后，英国史学家马丁·吉尔伯特(Martin Gilbert)采访托尔金，询问他的从军生涯。根据吉尔伯特的说法，托尔金所在的部队曾经遭受敌军的密集炮火。他听到“被击中的人发出可怕的叫喊”，吉尔伯特写道。“托尔金和他的信号兵们总是很容易受到攻击。”
Tolkien’s creative mind found an outlet. He began writing the first drafts of his mythology about Middle-earth, as he recalled, “by candle light in bell-tents, even some down in dugouts under shell fire.” In 1917, recuperating from trench fever, Tolkien composed a series of tales involving “gnomes,” dwarves and orcs engaged in a great struggle for his imaginary realm.
托尔金的创造性思维找到了一个出口。他开始创作关于中土神话的第一稿。他回忆，“在帐篷里就着烛光写，有时候甚至是在掩体里就着炮火写下的。”1917年，他患战壕热养病期间，写下了一系列关于地精、矮人和兽人的故事，他们在一个他想像中的王国展开了大战。
In the rent earth of the Somme Valley, he laid the foundation of his epic trilogy.
他的史诗三部曲就这样在索姆河谷饱受战争创伤的土地上奠定了基础。
The descriptions of battle scenes in “The Lord of the Rings” seem lifted from the grim memories of the trenches: the relentless artillery bombardment, the whiff of mustard gas, the bodies of dead soldiers discovered in craters of mud. In the Siege of Gondor, hateful orcs are “digging, digging lines of deep trenches in a huge ring,” while others maneuver “great engines for the casting of missiles.”
《指环王》中战争场面的描写似乎正是来自战壕中的惨痛记忆：无休无止的炮火、芥子气的阵阵毒雾，阵亡士兵的尸体倒在泥坑里。在岗多之困中，充满仇恨的兽人“挖出一条条深深的战壕，构成一个巨大的圆环”，其他兽人操纵着“一台台用来投掷石弹的巨大机器”。
On the path to Mordor, stronghold of Sauron, the Dark Lord, the air is “filled with a bitter reek that caught their breath and parched their mouths.” Tolkien later acknowledged that the Dead Marshes, with their pools of muck and floating corpses, “owe something to Northern France after the Battle of the Somme.”
在通往黑暗之主索伦的领地魔多的道路上，空气中“充满难闻的臭气，让他们无法呼吸，口干舌燥”。托尔金后来承认，布满成潭污秽，漂浮着无数尸体的死亡沼泽(Dead Marshes)，“部分是来自索姆河战役之后的法国北部”。
In a lecture delivered in 1939, “On Fairy-Stories,” Tolkien explained that his youthful love of mythology had been “quickened to full life by war.” Yet he chose not to write a war memoir, and in this he departed from contemporaries like Robert Graves and Vera Brittain.
在1939年的讲座“关于神话故事”(On Fairy-Stories)中，托尔金解释说，自己年轻时对神话的爱好，“受战争激发，迅速成熟起来”。然而和同时代的罗伯特·格雷夫斯(Robert Graves)与薇拉·布里顿(Vera Brittain)等人不同，他并没有选择去写一本战争回忆录。
In the postwar years, the Somme exemplified the waste and futility of battle, symbolizing disillusionment not only with war, but with the very idea of heroism. As a professor of Anglo-Saxon back at Oxford, Tolkien preferred the moral landscape of Arthur and Beowulf. His aim was to produce a modern version of the medieval quest: an account of both the terrors and virtues of war, clothed in the language of myth.
在战后的岁月里，索姆河成了一个典型，证明着战争带来的巨大浪费与战争本身的毫无意义，它不仅象征着战争的幻灭，也象征着英雄主义这概念的幻灭。回到牛津，作为一个盎格鲁-萨克逊文学教授，托尔金更偏爱亚瑟王传说与贝奥武甫的道德世界。他想为一个中世纪的追求创造出一个现代版本：用神话的语言，叙写战争的恐怖与美德。
In “The Lord of the Rings,” we meet Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee, Hobbits of the Shire, on a fateful mission to destroy the last Ring of Power and save Middle-earth from enslavement and destruction. The heroism of Tolkien’s characters depends on their capacity to resist evil and their tenacity in the face of defeat. It was this quality that Tolkien witnessed among his comrades on the Western Front.
在《指环王》中，我们见到了夏尔郡的霍比特人弗罗多·巴金斯(Frodo Baggins)和山姆卫斯·詹吉(Samwise Gamgee)，他们要执行一项宿命的任务，摧毁最后的权力之戒，把中土世界从遭受奴役和毁灭的命运中拯救出来。托尔金笔下人物的英雄主义，在于他们能抵御邪恶，以及面对失败时的坚忍。这正是他在“一战”西线战场上，在战友们身上所看到的品质。
“I have always been impressed that we are here, surviving, because of the indomitable courage of quite small people against impossible odds,” he explained. The Hobbits were “a reflection of the English soldier,” made small of stature to emphasize “the amazing and unexpected heroism of ordinary men ‘at a pinch.’ ”
“我们之所以活下来，都是因为那些小人物反抗强大命运的那股不可摧折的勇气，这总是让我深受触动，”他解释说。霍比特人“反映了英国士兵”，他们身材矮小，为了强调“普通人‘在危急时刻’所爆发出的令人赞叹而且出乎意料的英雄主义”。
When the Somme offensive was finally called off in November 1916, a total of about 1.5 million soldiers were dead or wounded. Winston Churchill, who served on the front lines as a lieutenant colonel, criticized the campaign as “a welter of slaughter.” Two of Tolkien’s closest friends, Robert Gilson and Ralph Payton, perished in the battle, and another, Geoffrey Smith, was killed shortly afterward.
索姆河战役最终于1916年11月结束，共有150万士兵受伤或死亡。时任中校的温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)也在前线，他批评这场战役是“一场大屠杀”。托尔金的两个密友罗伯特·吉尔森(Robert Gilson)和拉尔夫·佩顿(Ralph Payton)都在这场战役中身亡，另一位好友乔弗里·史密斯(Geoffrey Smith)也在不久后死去。
Beside the courage of ordinary men, the carnage of war seems also to have opened Tolkien’s eyes to a primal fact about the human condition: the will to power. This is the force animating Sauron, the sorcerer-warlord and great enemy of Middle-earth. “But the only measure that he knows is desire,” explains the wizard Gandalf, “desire for power.” Not even Frodo, the Ring-bearer and chief protagonist, escapes the temptation.
除了普通人的勇气，战争中的大屠杀似乎也让托尔金看到关于人类处境的一个基本事实：对权力的欲望。这成了他创造索伦的动力，这个发动战争的巫师是中土世界最大的敌人。“但是他唯一知晓的便只有欲望，”巫师甘道夫解释说，“对权力的欲望。”甚至连持戒人、主人公弗罗多也无法摆脱诱惑。
When Tolkien’s trilogy was published, shortly after World War II, many readers assumed that the story of the Ring was a warning about the nuclear age. Tolkien set them straight: “Of course my story is not an allegory of atomic power, but of power (exerted for domination).”
托尔金的三部曲出版正值“二战”结束不久，很多读者觉得魔戒的故事是对核战争时代的警示。托尔金澄清说：“我的故事当然不是关于核力量的预言，而是关于（谋求统治的）力量的预言。”
Even this was not the whole story. For Tolkien, there was a spiritual dimension: In the human soul’s struggle against evil, there was a force of grace and goodness stronger than the will to power. Even in a forsaken land, at the threshold of Mordor, Samwise Gamgee apprehends this: “For like a shaft, clear and cold, the thought pierced him that in the end the Shadow was only a small and passing thing: There was light and high beauty forever beyond its reach.”
就连这也不是这个故事的全部。对于托尔金来说，《指环王》还有精神层面的意义：那就是人类灵魂与邪恶的斗争中，总有一种高贵的、善的力量，能够压倒对权力的渴望。就连在魔多入口一片荒凉的土地上，山姆卫斯·詹吉也能感受到：“如同一束清冷洁净的光，一个念头突然在他心里闪过，魔影之地其实微不足道，转瞬即逝：它永远无法触及光明与至高的美。”
Good triumphs, yet Tolkien’s epic does not lapse into escapism. His protagonists are nearly overwhelmed by fear and anguish, even their own lust for power. When Frodo returns to the Shire, his quest at an end, he resembles not so much the conquering hero as a shellshocked veteran. Here is a war story, wrapped in fantasy, that delivers painful truths about the human predicament.
善会得到胜利，但托尔金的史实并未落入逃避现实的窠臼。他笔下的主人公几乎被恐惧和痛苦，乃至他们自身对权力的渴望所打败。当弗罗多的探索将终，他回到夏尔，这时的他却不像是征服世界的英雄，倒像是个厌倦战火的老兵。这是一个裹在奇幻外衣里的战争故事，讲述关于人类困境的痛苦真相。
Tolkien used the language of myth not to escape the world, but to reveal a mythic and heroic quality in the world as we find it. Perhaps this was the greatest tribute he could pay to the fallen of the Somme.
托尔金使用神话的语言，不是为了逃避世界，而是为了展现我们所见的这个世界的一种神话般的英雄主义气质。或许这就是他能对索姆河无数英灵献上的最大敬意。