Below are selections from the work of Patrick Modiano, who was awarded the 2014 Nobel Prize in Literature on Thursday. The excerpts are courtesy of David R. Godine, Publisher.
下面是帕特里克·莫迪亚诺(Patric Modiano)的作品节选，他于周四获得2014年诺贝尔文学奖。大卫·R·戈蒂尼出版社出版(David R. Godine)。
From “Honeymoon,” translated from the French by Barbara Wright
摘自《蜜月》(Honeymoon)，由芭芭拉·怀特(Barbara Wright)自法语译为英语
At Juan-les-Pins, people behaved as if the war didn’t exist. The men wore beach trousers and the women light-coloured pareus. All these people were some twenty years older than Ingrid and Rigaud, but this was barely noticeable. Owing to their suntanned skin and their athletic gait, they still looked young and falsely carefree. They didn’t know the way things would go when the summer was over. At aperitif time, they exchanged addresses. Would they be able to get rooms at Megève this winter? Some preferred the Val-d’Isère, and were already getting ready to book accommodation at the Col de l’Iseran. Others had no intention of leaving the Côte d’Azur. It was possible that they were going to reopen the Altitude 43 in Saint-Tropez, that white hotel which looks like a liner grounded among the pines above the Plage de la Bouillabaisse. They would be safe there. Fleeting signs of anguish could be read on their faces under the suntan: to think that they were going to have to be permanently on the move, searching for a place that the war had spared, and that these oases were going to become rare all the time . . . Rationing was beginning on the Côte. You mustn’t think about anything, so as not to undermine your morale. These idle days sometimes gave you a feeling of being under house arrest. You had to create a vacuum in your head. Let yourself be gently numbed by the sun and the swaying of the palm trees in the breeze . . . Shut your eyes. Ingrid and Rigaud lived the same sort of life as these people who were forgetting the war, but they kept out of their way and avoided speaking to them. At first, everyone had been astonished by their youth. Were they waiting for their parents? Were they on holiday? Rigaud had replied that Ingrid and he “were on honeymoon,” quite simply. And this reply, far from surprising them, had reassured the guests at the Provençal. If young people still went on honeymoon, it meant that the situation wasn’t so tragic as all that and that the earth was still going round.
在朱安雷宾，人们表现得好像战争根本就不存在。男人们穿着沙滩裤，女人们穿着亮丽的裹裙。他们都比英格丽德和希戈年长20岁左右，但这并不是那么明显。被太阳晒黑的皮肤和运动员般的体态令他们看上去仍然年轻，有种虚假的无忧无虑。他们不知道夏天结束之后事情将会变成什么样。喝开胃酒的时候，他们互相致辞。今年冬天能在梅杰夫订到房间吗？有些人更喜欢瓦尔迪塞尔，已经打算在德利塞朗山口找住处了。其他人不想离开朱安雷宾。他们有可能重新开放圣特洛佩的“海拔43”，那座白色的酒店就像一艘邮轮，坐落在马赛鱼汤海滩上方的松林之中。他们在那里会很安全。在他们晒得黝黑的脸上，可以看到稍纵即逝的痛苦神色：他们将要永久这样迁徙下去，到处寻找被战争饶过的地方，而这样的绿洲只会越来越少……这处海岸已经开始实行配给制。你不能想太多，否则便会感到沮丧。这些懒散的日子有时会让你觉得是在遭软禁。你得在自己头脑中创造出一块真空。阳光普照，棕榈树在微风中摇摆，你得让自己渐渐陷入麻木……闭上眼睛。英格丽德和希戈的生活和这些忘记了战争的人们没什么两样，但他俩不和这些人来往，也避免和他们交谈。起先，所有人看到他俩那么年轻都感到吃惊。他们是在等待父母到来吗？他们是在度假吗？希戈一再重复，他和英格丽德“在度蜜月”，就这么简单。这个回答不会让这些普罗旺斯的客人们吃惊，只是打消了他们的疑虑。如果年轻人仍然到这里来度蜜月，这意味着局势还没有悲惨到那种地步，地球还在继续转动。
◆ ◆ ◆
From “Missing Person,” translated from the French by Daniel Weissbort
摘自《失踪的人》(Missing Person)，由丹尼尔·韦斯伯特(Daniel Weissbort) 自法语译为英语
I am nothing. Nothing but a pale shape, silhouetted that evening against the café terrace, waiting for the rain to stop; the shower had started when Hutte left me.
我什么也不是，只是一个黯淡的人形，那天晚上在咖啡馆的露台上显现出轮廓，等待着大雨的停止；雨是从休特走后开始下起来的。
Some hours before, we had met again for the last time on the premises of the Agency. Hutte, as usual, sat at his massive desk, but with his coat on, so that there was really an air of departure about it. I sat opposite him, in the leather armchair we kept for clients. The opaline lamp shed a bright light which dazzled me
几小时前，我们在事务所里又见了最后一面。休特和往常一样，坐在大大的桌子后面，但他身上穿着大衣，所以真的有一种离别的气氛。我坐在他对面给客户坐的皮质扶手椅上。乳白玻璃灯明亮的光芒令我目眩。
“Well, there we are, Guy . . . That’s it . . . ,” said Hutte, with a sigh.
“好吧，就是这样，盖伊……就是这样……”休特叹息道。
A stray file lay on the desk. Maybe it was the one belonging to the dark little man with the frightened expression and the puffy face, who had hired us to follow his wife. In the afternoon, she met another dark little man with a puffy face, at a residential hotel, in Rue Vital, close to Avenue Paul-Doumer.
桌上有个孤零零的卷宗。或许它属于那个身材矮小、皮肤黝黑、浮肿的脸上总带着一副惊恐表情的男人，他雇我们去跟踪自己的妻子。那天下午，她在保罗-杜摩尔大道附近，维塔街的一家公寓旅馆里，遇上了另一个皮肤黝黑、面孔浮肿的小男人。
Thoughtfully, Hutte stroked his beard, a grizzly, close-cut beard, but one which spread out over his cheeks. His large, limpid eyes stared dreamily ahead. To the left of the desk, the wicker chair where I sat during working hours. Behind Hutte, dark wooden shelves covered half the wall: there were rows of street-and-trade directories and yearbooks of all kinds, going back over the last fifty years. Hutte had often told me that these were the essential tools of the trade and that he would never part with them. And that these directories and yearbooks constituted the most valuable and moving library you could imagine, as their pages listed people, things, vanished worlds, to which they alone bore witness.
休特的花白胡子修剪得很短，不过脸颊上已经有胡茬长出来了，他若有所思地抚着胡子，一双清澈的大眼睛迷惘地凝视着前方。桌子左边是我在上班时候坐的藤条椅。休特身后，几个深色木制书架占了半面墙，上面放的都是各行各业的地址簿以及各种年鉴，可以追溯到最近50年。休特经常告诉我，干这一行，它们是必不可少的工具，他永远不会离开它们。这些地址簿和年鉴构成了你能想象的最有价值的移动图书馆，它们记载着人物、事件和只有它们曾经见证的失落的世界。
◆ ◆ ◆
From the children’s book “Catherine Certitude,” translated from the French by William Rodarmor, with illustrations by Sempé
摘自童书《凯瑟琳·瑟蒂都德》(Catherine Certidude)，由威廉·罗达默尔(William Rodarmor) 自法语译为英语，塞佩(Sempé)绘制插图
It’s snowing here in New York, and I’m looking out the windows of my 59th Street apartment at the building across the way where I run a dance school. Behind the large glass panes, the students in leotards have stopped their pointe work and entrechats practice. As a change of pace, my daughter, who works as my assistant, is showing them a jazz step.
纽约在下雪，我从位于59街的公寓窗前向外看去，街对面那栋房子是我开的舞蹈学校。大大的玻璃窗后面，穿紧身衣的学生们已经停止了足尖站立和击足跳练习。担任助手的女儿为了换下口味，开始向她们演示一段爵士舞舞步。
I’ll join them in a few minutes.
几分钟后我也会加入她们。
Among the students is a little girl who wears glasses. She set them down on a chair before the class started, the way I used to when I was her age and taking classes with Madame Dismailova. You don’t wear glasses when you dance. I remember that when I was with Madame Dismailova, I would practice not wearing my glasses during the day. The shapes of people and things lost their sharpness and everything was blurry. Even sounds became muffled. Without my glasses, the world lost its roughness and became as soft and downy as the big pillow I used to lean my cheek against before going to sleep.
学生们当中有个戴眼镜的小女孩。上课前，她把眼镜放在一张椅子上，我像她这个年纪的时候正在跟迪斯马洛瓦夫人(Madame Dismailova)学习，也是像她这样做的。戴着眼镜可没法跳舞。我记得跟迪斯马洛瓦夫人学习的时候，我整天都在练习怎么不戴眼镜生活。人和事物的形状失去了棱角，一切都模模糊糊的。就连声音都好像被蒙住了。没了眼镜，世界仿佛不再粗糙，就像我睡觉前喜欢把脸贴上去的那个大靠枕一般柔软、轻柔。