BEIJING — Guo Chuan, an oceangoing Chinese adventurer, set off on a trimaran from San Francisco last week, hoping to establish his latest sailing record with a 20-day sprint to Shanghai.
北京——上周，中国海洋冒险家郭川驾驶一艘三体船，从旧金山出发，希望能够在20天时间里抵达上海，创造一项最新的航海记录。
But on Thursday, the American Coast Guard said it had found Mr. Guo’s 97-foot, red-hulled boat drifting and unmanned in the Pacific Ocean almost halfway to his destination. His life jacket was still onboard.
但是美国海岸警卫队在周四表示，他们发现了郭川的那艘97英尺的红皮船漂浮在太平洋上，距离上海大约还有一半路程，船上没有人。郭川的救生衣还在船上。
Officially, Mr. Guo remains missing. But the Coast Guard said it had suspended its search and offered commiserations to his family.
按照官方说法，郭川仍然处于失踪状态。但海岸警卫队表示，他们已经停止了搜索工作，并向他的家人致以慰问。
Mr. Guo “was a professional mariner with a deep passion for sailing,” Capt. Robert Hendrickson, the chief of response for the Coast Guard’s 14th District, which oversaw the search, said by email.
郭川“是一位专业航海家，对航海充满热情”，主管这项搜索行动的海岸警卫队第十四区响应负责人罗伯特·亨德里克森(Robert Hendrickson)上校说。
“Our deepest condolences go out not only to his family and friends but also to his racing team and the sailing community,” Captain Hendrickson said.
“在此，我们要对他的家人朋友，以及他的竞赛团队和航海社区致以最深切的慰问，”亨德里克森说。
Mr. Guo’s latest grueling venture had drawn attention across China, even more so after his support team announced that it had lost contact with him on Tuesday and that his boat had lost speed. The team had chronicled his journey on a website, from the excitement of passing under the Golden Gate Bridge to the agonizing wait for word from his boat.
郭川这次艰苦的冒险活动，之前就已经吸引了中国人的关注，尤其是在本周二他的后援团队宣布与他失去联系，他的船速下降之后。该团队在一个网站上记录了这次航行的经历，从金门大桥下经过的激动，到等待船的回音的煎熬，都可以在这个网站上看到。
Onboard, Mr. Guo liked to listen to a recording of his young son laughing, he said in one of the last reports from his trip. “That’s the most beautiful song in the world,” he said. “It’s the most comforting for me.”
在船上时，郭川很喜欢听小儿子欢笑的录音，他在航行的最后几份报告中说。“这是世界上最美妙的歌，最让我安心，”他说。
On Thursday, a message from his support team said the Coast Guard ship had “collected all Guo’s belongings aboard for his family,” adding, “They lowered the mainsail.”
本周四，他的后援团队发布消息说，美国海岸警卫队的船只“为郭川的家人收纳了他的所有物品”，而且“他们降下了主帆”。
Mr. Guo, 51, had come late to his love of sailing, but he made up for that with driven energy. “I’ve been terrified, despaired, but never given up,” he said, according to The Paper, a Shanghai news website.
郭川现年51岁，虽然爱上航海的时候已经不算年轻，但他用行动力来加以弥补。据上海新闻网站《澎湃新闻》报道，他说，“我恐惧过，绝望过，但从没放弃过。”
He had made a living managing commercial satellite launches and threw himself into sailing in his 30s, after going on a yacht in Hong Kong and becoming enchanted. He has logged a number of firsts and other achievements, including a world record in 2013 for the fastest solo nonstop circumnavigation of the world in a 40-foot yacht, a journey that took 137 days.
郭川之前的工作是管理商业卫星发射，有一次他在香港登上一艘游艇，被完全迷住了，于是他在30多岁的时候投身航海界。郭川取得了很多个“第一名”以及其他一些成就，包括2013年完成历时137天的单人不间断环球航行，创造了国际帆联认可的40英尺级帆船单人不间断环球航行世界纪录。
“No. 1 sailor in China,” said his description on his Facebook page.
“中国第一水手，”他的Facebook页面上写着。
In his latest voyage, Mr. Guo intended to sail from San Francisco to Shanghai within 20 days, breaking the solo record of 21 days.
在本次航行中，郭川打算在20天内从旧金山抵达上海，打破21天的单人航行纪录。
But he also took patriotic pride in being China’s pioneering professional ocean adventurer. Previously, the established route for record-breaking sailing attempts across the Pacific was from America to Japan, he said, according to The Paper.
但作为中国专业海洋冒险的先驱，他也有一种爱国情结。据《澎湃新闻》报道，他说过去国际帆联认可的横穿太平洋航线都是从美国洛杉矶到日本。
“Now finally it’s settled on China as a benchmark, and this shows that our motherland has become a global focus,” Mr. Guo said. “I feel very proud of this.”
“现在终点定在了中国，这意味着我们的祖国愈发成为世界的聚焦点。”郭川说，“对此，我非常自豪。”