PARIS — François Granier, a wine consultant and rock music fan, thought the Friday night concert he was attending had simply taken a particularly raucous turn.
巴黎——弗朗索瓦·格朗涅(François Granier)，葡萄酒顾问、摇滚乐迷，周五晚上那场音乐会上，他以为只是场面气氛出现了一次格外热闹的转折。
Mai Hua, a fashion blogger and video director who was dining a few blocks away, figured the explosions she heard must be just another burst of gang violence.
梅·华(Mai Hua)，时尚博主、影像导演，在几个街区外的餐馆吃饭，发生爆炸时，她猜想无非是又一场帮派火拼。
Erin Allweiss, a publicist from New York who was eating at a restaurant in the same district, hoped the noise came from fireworks.
艾琳·阿尔维斯(Erin Allweiss)，纽约来的公关人士，在同一街区的一间餐馆吃饭，她期望那些响声是烟花发出的。
One by one on Friday evening, however, all the ordinary reflexes, expectations and hopes of urban life fell away as tens of thousands of Parisians and visitors to their city confronted what President François Hollande would describe as a display of “absolute barbarity.”
然而，在周五晚间，这些都市生活中寻常的反应、估量与期望，一个接一个地遭到否决，数万巴黎人和正造访这座城市的游客，目睹了一场弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)总统所说的“彻头彻尾的野蛮行径”。
The dull thuds and sharp cracks that so many thought, or at least hoped, were just the background noises of a night on the town in one of the world's great, vibrant cities turned out to be the ghastly soundtrack of the worst terrorist assault on the French capital, even bloodier than the January attacks on a satirical newspaper and a kosher supermarket.
很多人以为，或至少是期望，那些砰砰的闷响和刺耳的爆裂声，只是一座伟大而鲜活的城市在这一晚的背景噪声，然而那其实是一道骇人的音轨，伴随的是法兰西首都有史以来最严重的一次恐怖主义袭击，其惨烈程度甚至超过了今年1月对一家讽刺报纸和一间犹太洁食超市的攻击。
“This was not a targeted attack but a mass execution,” Granier, the wine expert, said of his evening at the Bataclan, a Paris concert hall that on Friday became a slaughterhouse in which 89 of his fellow rock fans were killed.
“这不是有目标的攻击，而是一场大规模处决，”格朗涅这样描述昨晚在巴塔克兰(Bataclan)见到的情景，这家巴黎音乐厅在周五成为一个屠杀场，89个和他一样热爱摇滚乐的人在那里遇害。
He had gone there to see the Eagles of Death Metal, a hard-driving band from California. He went alone because his girlfriend, who dislikes noisy music, spurned his offer of a date. The band had played around five songs and the audience was already warmed up when a series of loud bangs echoed around the 19th-century concert hall on Boulevard Voltaire in central Paris.
他是来看“死亡金属之鹰”(Eagles of Death Metal)的，这是一支乐风彪悍的美国加州乐队。他的女朋友不喜欢吵闹的音乐，拒绝了这个约会邀请，因此他是一个人来的。在巴黎中部伏尔泰大道上的这座19世纪音乐厅里，乐队唱了大概五首歌，观众的气氛已经热起来。一连串的巨响就是这时开始的。
“I thought this was just part of the show,” Garnier recalled. “There was so much noise and shouting you could not tell what was going on at first.”
“我以为就是演出的一部分，”格朗涅回忆道。“当时满脑子的噪音和嘶喊，一开始都不知道出了什么事。”
But, along with many others out on Friday night to listen to music, watch soccer or enjoy a meal with friends, Granier had become both a spectator and a dangerously exposed actor in the distant battles of the Middle East, where the Islamic State militant group would claim responsibility for the carnage a few hours later.
但是，和许多周五晚上来听音乐、看足球或与友人共进晚餐的人一样，格朗涅也被卷进了遥远的中东战事，同时成为一个旁观者和毫无防备的参与者，伊斯兰国武装组织在几小时后宣称对这场大屠杀负责。
The chilly Friday the 13th night that left at least 129 dead began at 9:20 p.m. with nearly simultaneous attacks at the Stade de France, the national sports stadium where France had just begun a soccer game against Germany, and, a few minutes later and 4 miles to the south, in a shabby-chic central city district studded with bars and restaurants.
至少129人殒命于11月13日星期五那个阴冷的晚上，袭击从晚上9点20分在多个地点几乎同时开始，先是在法兰西体育场，当时法国队和德国队在这座国家体育场的比赛刚开始不久，几分钟后又在以南4英里（约合6.4公里）处的一个遍布酒吧和餐馆的市中心旧式时尚区。
The wave of attacks, carried out by what François Molins, the Paris prosecutor, described as three coordinated squads of terrorist commandos, spread panic across the French capital.
据巴黎检察长弗朗索瓦·莫兰(François Molins)的介绍，这一系列的攻击由三个协调行动的恐怖分子特战小组实施，法国首都已经陷入一片恐慌。
Unlike the slaughter in January at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and the kosher supermarket, Friday's terrorists targeted random Parisians enjoying a night out at the end of the week. The only obvious element the victims had in common was that they were all out having fun.
和1月针对讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)和洁食超市的袭击不同，恐怖分子在周五只是随机地向正在享受周末夜晚的巴黎人发起攻击。受害者都是出来放松玩乐的人，这是他们唯一的明显共同点。
Antoine Griezmann, a player for the French national team, was on the field at the Stade de France when a loud explosion shook the rafters, slicing through the cheers of French and German fans. Another blast followed a 10 minutes later, then a third.
法国国家队球员安东尼·格里兹曼(Antoine Griezmann)当时正在法兰西体育场上踢球，一声巨响压过了法德球迷的欢呼声，体育场的椽梁被震得发颤。十分钟后又一声爆炸，而后是第三声。
“We heard something that sounded like a detonating bomb as well as shooting,” said Agnes Dupont, who attended the match with her husband and two young children, their faces painted brightly with the blue, white and red stripes of the French flag. Others said they thought youngsters outside the stadium were setting off firecrackers.
“我们听到某种像是引爆炸弹和枪响的声音，”和丈夫、两个年幼的孩子一起来看比赛的阿涅斯·杜蓬(Agnes Dupont)说，他们的脸上涂着明亮的蓝白红国旗三色。有人说是场外的小孩在放烟火。
The two teams kept playing, with Griezmann and fellow players only learning after the game that three suicide bombers had walked into a brasserie and a McDonalds outside the stadium and detonated explosive belts, killing themselves and at least one other person.
两队继续比赛，格里兹曼和队友是在赛后才得知，有三个自杀炸弹袭击者走进了体育场外的一家啤酒馆和一家麦当劳，引爆了炸药腰带，导致他们自己以及另外至少一人身亡。
More worrying still for Griezmann, he also learned about the attack at Bataclan, the concert hall where his sister had gone to hear the Eagles of Death Metal. He frantically tried to find out if she was safe, finally discovering that she had escaped unscathed.
令格里兹曼更感担心的是，他听到巴塔克兰也遭到袭击，他的姊妹正在那个音乐厅里听死亡金属之鹰。他发狂地四处打听她的下落，直到得知她毫发无伤地逃了出来。
“May God take care of my sister and the rest of France,” the soccer player wrote on Twitter.
“上帝保佑我的姊妹，保佑法兰西，”这位球员在Twitter上写道。
As the suicide bombers blew themselves up outside the stadium, which is in the suburb of St.-Denis, Betty Alves, a 39-year-old Parisian, was ordering Chinese food with a friend in a restaurant in the 10th Arrondissement. Gunshots rang out.
在位于巴黎郊区圣但尼的体育场外自杀炸弹被引爆时，39岁的巴黎人贝蒂·艾尔维斯(Betty Alves)正和一个朋友在第十区一家餐馆里点中国菜。枪声就是那时响起的。
“It was terrifying,” she recalled later, “We saw everyone run down the street. We jumped on the floor and I hid under the table.”
“很可怕，”她后来回忆道，“我们看见大家都在街上跑。我们一下子趴到地上，我藏在桌子底下。”
The restaurant closed its metal shutters and everyone hid inside. When they reopened the shutters, Alves said she saw one young woman dead on the street and another man seriously injured. Her car, a Smart, parked on the corner of Rue Faubourg-du-Temple and Rue de la Fontaine-au-Roi, was riddled with bullet holes.
餐馆拉上了金属卷闸门，所有人都躲在里面。等到他们重新打开卷闸门时，艾尔维斯看到一个年轻女人死在街上，还有一个男人受重伤。她那辆停在圣殿郊区街和国王泉街路口的Smart已经满是弹孔。
The first victims in central Paris were 15 diners killed at Le Petit Cambodge, an Asian restaurant near a canal that runs through the once working-class and now fashionable 10th Arrondissement and at an adjacent restaurant, Bar Le Carillon. Gunmen, according to witnesses, sprayed the establishments with bullets from a black vehicle.
巴黎市中心的第一批遇害者，是在亚洲菜餐厅Le Petit Cambodge进餐的15名食客，该餐厅附近有一条运河，流经整个曾属劳动阶层居住地、现已是时尚地带的第十区，此外还有毗邻的另一家餐厅Bar Le Carillon。据目击者说，枪手从一辆黑色汽车里向两家餐厅扫射。
The next target, apparently by the same squad of terrorists in the same vehicle, the prosecutor said, was the Cafe Bonne Bière, a bar in the adjacent 11th Arrondissement. At least five people were killed there.
据检察长称，下一个目标是在隔壁第十一区的酒吧Cafe Bonne Bière，应该是坐着同一辆车的同一伙恐怖分子实施的。那里至少有五人被杀。
In just half an hour, gunmen raked at least four restaurants and cafes with gunfire in a fast-gentrifying area of Paris. At least 19 people died at La Belle Époque, a cafe with an outdoor seating area that got hit by sustained gunfire.
仅仅半小时内，在这个正在迅速士绅化的巴黎城区，枪手横扫了至少四家餐厅和咖啡馆。在La Belle Époque至少有19人丧生，咖啡馆的户外就餐区遭到持续的枪击。
“It was not just one or two bullets. The shooting last five minutes. They did not give anybody a chance,” Antoine Barnier, a witness, told BFM, a French television news channel.
“不只是一两颗子弹。射击持续了五分钟。他们没有给任何人留机会，”目击者安托万·巴尔涅(Antoine Barnier)对法国电视新闻频道BFM说。
The violence reached its climax, however, less than a mile away at the Bataclan, which three gunmen entered at 9:40 p.m., took more than a 1,000 music fans hostage and shot them indiscriminately before police regained control in a hail of gunfire and explosions shortly after midnight.
但在不到一英里外的巴塔克兰，暴力已经达到最高点，三名枪手在晚上9点40分进入音乐厅，将100多名乐迷劫为人质，并不加选择地向他们开火，警方在午夜过后不久的一阵冰雹般的枪声和爆炸声中夺回音乐厅。
While Granier, the wine consultant, hid in a backstage room, Ginnie Watson, a 35-year-old French-British actress and singer, was at the concert, headed with her friends for a security exit she had noticed earlier on her way to the washroom. Like many others in the hall, she had mistaken the initial gunfire as part of the show.
与此同时，格朗涅，那位葡萄酒顾问，正躲在后台的一个房间里，而来看演出的35岁法裔英国演员、歌手基恩妮·沃特森(Ginnie Watson)和朋友一起从一个安全出口逃走，她是之前去洗手间时注意到那个出口的。和音乐厅里的很多人一样，她以为一开始的枪响是演出的一部分。
“I'm still in shock. I don't think I've actually realized what's happened,” Watson said Saturday. “The stars were in my favor last night, I was really very lucky.”
“我还没缓过来，我想我至今还是不知道到底发生了什么，”沃特森在周六说。“昨晚我运气好，实在是太幸运了。”