A musical homage to President Xi Jinping of China and his wife, Peng Liyuan, has circulated widely online in recent days, a sign of how the public face of Chinese leadership has changed since Mr. Xi took office two years ago.
近日，一首向中国国家主席习近平和他的夫人彭丽媛表达敬意的歌曲在网上广泛传播，这表明了自习近平于两年前上台以来中国领导层的公共形象发生了怎样的变化。
The song, “Xi Dada Loves Peng Mama,” was created by a group of musicians in the central province of Henan, The Zhengzhou Evening News reported on Monday. The lyricist, Song Zhigang, is well known for creating the sorts of pop ballads that are inescapable in karaoke halls and long-distance buses.
据《郑州晚报》周一报道，这首叫做《习大大爱着彭麻麻》的歌曲，是由中国中部省份河南省的几个音乐人创作的。其词作者宋志刚以创作卡拉OK和长途大巴里必不可少的流行歌曲著称。
“This song fermented for a long time, but it was created in almost one breath,” Mr. Song told the newspaper. “It’s an expression of my true inner feelings.”
“这首歌酝酿了许久，创作时几乎一气呵成，”宋志刚告诉《郑州晚报》。“是内心情感的真实流露。”
The lyrics, roughly translated, say:
这首歌的歌词如下：
China produced an Uncle Xi; He dares to fight the tigers.
中国出了个习大大，多大的老虎也敢打。
Not afraid of heaven, not afraid of earth,Dreamers all look to him!
天不怕嘿地不怕，做梦都想见到他！
China also has a Peng Mama; Give her the most beautiful flowers.
中国还有个彭麻麻，最美的鲜花送给她。
Protect and bless her; Flourishing family, flourishing country, flourishing under heaven!
保佑她祝福她，兴家兴国兴天下！
Xi Dada loves Peng Mama; This sort of love is legendary,
习大大爱着彭麻麻，这样的爱情像神话，
Peng Mama loves Xi Dada; The realm with love is the strongest!
彭麻麻爱着习大大，有爱的天下最强大！
Men should study Xi Dada; Women should study Peng Mama,
男人要学习大大，女人要学彭麻麻，
Love like they do; Love can warm everyone!
像他们一样去爱吧，温暖的爱能暖万家！
Men should study Xi Dada; Women should study Peng Mama,
男人要学习大大，女人要学彭麻麻，
Love like they do; People with love can win everything!
像他们一样去爱吧，有爱的人才赢天下！
Brave love is called Xi Dada loves Peng Mama; Together, he’s always smiling happily at her.
有种爱叫习大大爱着彭麻麻，在一起时他总微笑幸福看着她。
Brave love is called Peng Mama loves Xi Dada; Hand in hand, her smile is the most beautiful flower.
有种爱叫彭麻麻爱着习大大，手牵着手她的微笑是最美的花。
Mr. Song told The Huashang Bao, a Xi’an-based newspaper, that he was inspired to write the song by images of the couple together in recent news coverage.
宋志刚向西安报纸《华商报》表示，他创作这首歌曲的灵感来自近期新闻报道中习近平夫妇互动的场景。
“Since General Secretary Xi came to power, there have been a lot of policies benefiting the nation and the people,” he said, using Mr. Xi’s title as head of the Communist Party. “For example, ‘fighting tigers’ [cracking down on high-level official corruption] and the ‘China Dream,’ these all speak to people’s hearts. For example, the ‘soft power’ General Secretary Xi speaks of, it’s embodied in Peng Liyuan. Her style provides a lot of help for foreign affairs and is the embodiment of our nation’s soft power.”
“习总书记上任之后，有许多利国利民的举措。比如‘打老虎’（打击高层官员腐败）、‘中国梦’，都说到了老百姓的心坎里。再比如习总书记提到‘软实力’，这在彭丽媛身上得到很好的体现，她的风范给外交带来很大的帮助，也从侧面体现了我们国家整体的软实力。”
As he assumed power two years ago, it became clear that Mr. Xi would bring a new style to China’s top political offices. Whereas his predecessor, Hu Jintao, was known for his unchanging facial expression, Mr. Xi was demonstrative and comfortable in front of crowds. Ms. Peng was already famous as a singer and People’s Liberation Army officer who often performed on televised galas.
从习近平两年前上台执政以来，事实就表明，他将给中国的最高政治领导层带来一种新风貌。众所周知，习近平前任胡锦涛的面部总是一副不动声色的表情，而习近平在面对人群时，却往往感情外露，神态轻松。作为歌手和人民解放军军官的彭丽媛早已广为人知，她经常在电视节目中进行表演。
Official propaganda has helped to craft that new image of the Chinese leadership, and over the past year Mr. Xi has appeared in an animated video and cartoons diagramming his work schedule. Popular microblogs, apparently with official ties, offer details about their daily lives.
官方的宣传为中国领导层塑造了一种新形象。去年，习近平还出现在了一个动画视频中，以及图解其公务活动的漫画之中。有些备受关注的微博还会提供他们日常生活的细节，这些微博明显与官方有关。
Mr. Song and his fellow creators of the paean to Mr. Xi and Ms. Peng didn’t indicate their project was proposed by propaganda officials, and the video, which shows more than 30 photos and cartoons of the couple, isn’t a terribly slick production. But the effort meshes with official efforts to polish the leader’s image.
宋志刚和这首献给习近平与彭丽媛的赞歌的其他主创人员，并未表示他们是在宣传官员的提议下进行创作的。歌曲的视频中展示了夫妇二人的30多张照片和漫画，其制作称不上精美。不过，这个举动刚好与官方提升习近平形象的工作相吻合。