HONG KONG — Sometimes having the right name can make all the difference.
香港——有时候，取个正确的名号就能卓然出众。
The lifestyle entrepreneur Sir David Tang added his name to Shanghai Tang, the first Chinese international fashion and luxury company, which he founded in 1995. He also pinned it on the celebrity restaurant China Tang at the Dorchester, a hotel in London, which will open an outpost soon in Hong Kong. Both brands sell his vision of Chinese chic to the West.
拥有多个生活方式品牌的企业家邓永锵爵士(Sir David Tang)把自己的姓氏放在了“上海滩”(Shanghai Tang)品牌的英文名里。由他在1995年创立的这个品牌，是中国首家国际时尚和奢侈品公司。之后他又将自己的姓氏放在了高端餐饮品牌“唐人馆”(China Tang)的英文里，这家餐馆位于伦敦的多切斯特酒店(Dorchester)，很快就会在香港开设分店。这两个品牌都是在向西方贩售他眼中的中式潮流。
But when it came to naming his latest venture, a lifestyle boutique, Sir David went wild.
但在为他最新的生活方式精品店命名的时候，邓永锵却突发奇想。
Tang Tang Tang Tang, or TTTT, is a “Shanghai Tang mark two,” he explains. The opening is planned for late October.
他解释道，这家计划在10月底开张的店铺名为Tang Tang Tang Tang（简称TTTT），是“上海滩升级版”。
And this time, he is looking toward the East — or more precisely, toward China’s younger generation of 25- to 35-year-olds.
现在，他正将目光投向东方，或者更具体地说，是中国25岁至35岁的年轻一代。
“What is really exciting for me is finding the right customer,” he said. “And I am targeting the fastest-growing middle class in the world. This group of people will be the most prosperous and, as a considerable amount of them would’ve spent time in the West, they will be looking for a brand that represents their ideals — and they don’t need to go to Fendi or Armani.”
“在我看来真正激动人心的是找到合适的顾客，”他说，“而我瞄准的目标是世界上增速最快的中产阶级。这群人会成为最富裕的一群，而且他们当中很多人会有在西方生活的经历，他们会去寻找一个能代表自己理想的品牌，其实他们并不需要去芬迪(Fendi)或阿玛尼(Armani)那里。”
Sir David said the idea of naming the store TTTT came from the famous opening chords of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony. “I wanted something memorable and half fun, and besides the ‘Happy Birthday’ song, the Fifth Symphony is perhaps the most recognizable tune in the world,” he says.
邓永锵说，把新店命名为TTTT的灵感，来自于贝多芬《第五交响曲》(Fifth Symphony)的开篇。他说，“我想要某种容易记住，并且有些趣味的名字。而除了那首‘生日快乐’歌，《第五交响曲》大概是全世界最容易辨认的曲调。”
The store is to stock about 170 items, a quarter of which will be TTTT-labeled fashion, with the rest made up of housewares, gadgets and small appliances, and accessories like tote bags and picture frames. Everything is being designed by a 12-member team, led by Sir David and his wife, Lucy.
这家店铺将会陈设大约170件商品，其中的四分之一将是TTTT品牌的服饰，其余则是居家用具、小器件、小摆设，以及手提袋和相框等小东西。所有商品都是由一个12人组成的团队设计的，这个设计团队由邓永锵和他的妻子露西(Lucy)领导。
“I am a good observer,” he says. “I go to China every two weeks just to see what people are buying.”
“我很善于观察，”他说，“我每两周就回一次中国，专门看人们在买什么。”
In the bustling area of Wan Chai, a 10-minute walk from Central, the central business district of Hong Kong, Sir David chose a 125-year-old building (that once housed a pawn shop) for his new 3,500-square-foot, or 325-square-meter, store. The buttercup-yellow Anglo-Chinese-style structure, built in 1888, also houses a well-known gastropub, The Pawn.
在人头攒动的湾仔，距离香港的中心商务区中环步行10分钟的地方，邓永锵选择了一栋有125年历史的小楼（这里曾是一家典当行）当做店面，其面积共有3500平方英尺，合325平米。这座中英建筑风格兼备的乳黄色小楼始建于1888年，楼中还有一个广为人知的餐吧，The Pawn。
The TTTT sale space will be divided into a living room, complete with fireplace; a dining room; and a kitchen and bathroom, to showcase the items in a real-life setting.
TTTT的销售空间会分为起居室（配有壁炉）、餐厅，以及厨房和浴室，从而在现实生活的环境中展示商品。
“I want people to come in here and envisage these things in their own home; I am selling a dream,” he says, then turns his attention to the workers laying a zigzag pattern of white and gray marble flooring and hanging some handmade, embroidered wallpaper inspired by Chinese scrolls.
他说，“我想让人们来到这里，设想这些物品在他们家里的样子，我卖的是梦想。”说着，他把注意力转向了工人们，后者正在铺设之字形灰白相间的大理石地面，悬挂灵感来自中式卷轴的手工绣花墙纸。
Sir David has retained the high ceilings and the original arches of the street-level area, so when some decorative antique pieces are added, the store will have a stylishly retro feel.
邓永锵保留了高高的天花板和原有的骑楼式构造，这样一来，再添加上一些装饰性古董之后，这家店面就会呈现出很有格调的怀旧氛围。
The project has taken about 18 months and, he said, involved an initial investment of $6 million.
他说，这个项目花费了18个月时间，初期投资600万美元。
With his posh British accent and jet-setting lifestyle, Sir David himself is probably the best spokesman for TTTT. His office in Central is filled with photographs of himself with Kate Moss, the late Princess Diana and Fidel Castro.
邓永锵有着英国上层社会口音和空中飞人的生活方式，他或许就是TTTT最好的代言人。在他位于中环的办公室里，摆满了他与凯特·莫斯(Kate Moss)、已故的戴安娜王妃(Princess Diana)，以及菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)等名人的合照。
The grandson of Tang Shiu-kin, one of Hong Kong’s best-known philanthropists, Sir David attended King’s College London and is a Hong Kong society stalwart, often photographed chomping on one of the Havana cigars he imports to Hong Kong and at times sporting traditional Chinese clothing.
邓永锵的祖父邓肇坚是香港最负盛名的慈善家之一。邓永锵曾在伦敦国王学院(King’s College London)就读，在香港社会举足轻重。他常以叼着哈瓦那雪茄的形象出现在照片中，这些雪茄都是他进口的，他有时还会穿着传统中式服装。
One of his earlier ventures was the establishment of the China Club in the ’90s, a decadent private members’ club atop the former Bank of China building, which he decorated to resemble a manor in 1930s Shanghai and filled with contemporary Chinese art.
邓永锵早期的产业之一是在20世纪90年代建立的中国会(China Club)，这个奢靡的私人俱乐部位于旧中国银行大楼的顶层，装修风格仿佛是20世纪30年代的上海豪宅，其中满是中国当代艺术作品。
Sir David said his experiences with Shanghai Tang, which he sold to the luxury group Richemont in 1998, taught him a few lessons. “I started Shanghai Tang as a fashion house but getting people to wear Chinese clothing is not always easy,” he says.
邓永锵表示，他在“上海滩”品牌上的经验让他有了一些收获。“上海滩”品牌已经在1998年出售给了奢饰品公司历峰集团(Richemont)。他说，“我创立‘上海滩’时是把它当作时尚品牌，但是让人们穿上中式服装却并不那么容易。”
So, for TTTT, the design philosophy will be more varied, involving what he calls a “Chinese resonance” rather than “selling Chinese designs.”
所以，对于TTTT，设计理念就会更多样，关乎他所说的“中国的符号”，而不是“销售中国的设计”。
“We will collaborate with those who can enhance the products, including leather goods handmade in England, glassware from the Czech Republic — TTTT will be an intelligent and stylish brand anchored by a Chinese spirit,” he continues. “Our prices are reasonable; think of us as an answer to Britain’s Conran Shop. We’ve got to be ‘wow.”’
“我们会与能够改善我们产品的人合作，包括英格兰手工制做的皮具，捷克的玻璃器皿。TTTT会是一个具有中国气息的明智、有格调的品牌，”他接着说，“我们的定价很合理，可以把我们理解成对英国Conran Shop的回应。我们肯定会让人惊呼，‘哇!’”
He already is planning a second outlet in London, potentially in Knightsbridge or Brompton Cross, where many Chinese visitors shop, but has no plans for New York, as “that market’s been tough for Shanghai Tang.”
他已经在计划在伦敦开设第二家门店了，可能会是在骑士桥(Knightsbridge)或布朗普顿十字(Brompton Cross)，那里会有很多中国游客购物。但他还没有在纽约开店的计划，因为“‘上海滩’就在那个市场遭遇到了不少困难”。
By year five, he wants to open the first shop in China — but he adds that he doesn’t want to open until the renminbi is traded freely.
五年后，他希望在中国大陆开设第一家店。不过他又补充说，人民币能自由交易之前不希望这样做。
Fans of Sir David’s ventures say it will be interesting to see the two “Tang” stores go head to head, although he insists they are not competitors.
邓永锵品牌的追捧者表示，看到两家“Tang”品牌的店铺同台亮相十分有趣。不过他坚称，二者并非竞争对手。
But he does relish seeing the family name on stores and restaurants. “Is it egoism? No,” he says. “Not if it makes sense.”
不过看到自己的姓氏出现在商店和餐馆的招牌上，他还是会很受用。“这样算自大吗？不算，”他说，“有理由自豪，就不算自大。”