In a recent interview with Time magazine, the actress Shailene Woodley was asked if she considered herself a feminist.
最近接受《时代》杂志采访时，女演员谢琳·伍德蕾(Shailene Woodley)被问到她是否认为自己是女性主义者。
“No,” said Ms. Woodley, 22. “Because I love men, and I think the idea of ‘raise women to power, take the men away from the power’ is never going to work out because you need balance.”
“不是，”22岁的伍德蕾说。“因为我爱男人，我觉得‘让女人掌握权力，让男人远离权力’这种概念永远不会实现，因为你需要平衡。”
It was a somewhat surprising response from an actress known for portraying strong-willed women in films like “The Spectacular Now,” “Divergent” and “The Fault in Our Stars,” to be released soon.
对于一个在《好景当前》(The Spectacular Now)、《分歧者》(Divergent)和即将上映的《星运里的错》(The Fault in Our Stars)等影片中饰演意志坚强的女性角色的演员来说，这个答案多少有点令人吃惊。
“She’s hardworking and talented, and the fact that she can open a movie is feminism in action,” said Melissa Stack, a screenwriter who wrote “The Other Woman” (a film Ms. Woodley called “really neat” in Time for “creating a sisterhood of support for one another versus hating each other”).
“她既努力又有天分，她能令一部电影开拍本身就是女性主义的实现，”《情敌复仇战》(The Other Woman)的编剧梅丽莎·斯塔克(Melissa Stack)说（伍德蕾在接受《时代》周刊采访时说这部电影“很不错”，因为它“描写了互相支持的姐妹情谊，而不是彼此憎恨”）。
Ms. Woodley has a reputation for being outspoken about environmental causes and has aired her support in numerous interviews. But the online backlash to her comment about feminism came quickly.
伍德蕾以对环境问题直言不讳而闻名，并曾在许多采访中表达过自己的支持态度。但她这次对女性主义发表的看法很快在网上应发强烈反应。
Jennifer Weiner, 44, a novelist, took to Twitter to write, “Dear Young Actresses: Before you sound off on feminists and how you’re not one, please figure out what feminism is.” Zerlina Maxwell, 32, a political analyst, chimed in with, “Here’s another actress rejecting a feminist label she can’t define properly.”
44岁的小说家詹妮弗·韦纳(Jennifer Weiner)在Twitter上写道：“亲爱的年轻女演员：在你大声评价女性主义者，并说你不是其中一员之前，请先弄清什么是女性主义。”32岁的政治评论寄啊泽莉娜·马克斯威尔(Zerlina Maxwell)附和：“又一个根本就不能正确定义女性主义就拒绝这个标签的女演员。”
Open letters addressed to Ms. Woodley showed up on The Huffington Post and on YouTube.
《赫芬顿邮报》(The Huffington Post)和YouTube上都有给伍德蕾的公开信。
“My reaction was, ‘Oh, no, not again’,” said Sarah Marian Seltzer, 31, who wrote one such retort, “Dear Shailene Woodley,” for the website the Hairpin. “There is this pattern of celebrities immediately saying, ‘No, I’m not a feminist, I love men,’ and there’s not a chance for a follow-up learning experience for anyone.”
“我的反应是：‘啊，不，不要再来一次了’，”31岁的莎拉·玛丽安·塞尔策(Sarah Marian Seltzer)在她的反驳中写道，“亲爱的谢琳·伍德蕾，”她在给“发夹”(Hairpin)网站的文章中写道，“名人总是这样脱口而出，‘不，我不是女性主义者，我爱男人，’接下来人们就没有机会学到更多东西。”
Ms. Woodley’s age is a likely factor in her distance, said Leonora Epstein, 28, who co-wrote the generational guide “X vs. Y: A Culture War, a Love Story.” Ms. Epstein said that, “She’s technically a millennial, but a young one, and it makes me wonder if they grew up with less oppression, and therefore never felt they needed a tool like feminism to fight or empower.”
伍德蕾的年龄也是造成她对女性主义的疏离感的原因之一，28岁的莱昂娜·爱普斯坦(Leonora Epstein)说，她曾与人合著堪称世代指导手册的《X对Y：文化战争，爱的故事》(X vs. Y: A Culture War, a Love Story)。爱普斯坦说，“她是千禧年之前出生的，但很年轻，我觉得她们是不是成长中没受过多少压迫，所以从来不觉得自己需要女性主义之类工具来斗争或让自己变得强大。”
The writer Jessica Grose took a more laissez-faire view, writing on Elle.com that journalists should stop asking actresses whether they’re feminists.
作家杰西卡·格罗斯(Jessica Grose)抱着顺其自然的态度，在Elle.com网站上写道，记者们以后就别再问女演员是不是女性主义了。
“It feels like a game of gotcha,” Ms. Grose, 32, said in an interview. “She’s not the enemy here.”
“这有点像‘这下我可抓到你了’的游戏，”32岁的格罗斯在访谈中说，“她又不是敌人。”
Whether a woman in the public eye calls herself a feminist is an exercise in semiotics, she said, and the hesitation among celebrities to fully embrace the cause is a fear that: “ ‘If I don’t say the exact right thing or express it in the right way, I’ll be rejected.’ It makes the movement seem judgmental or unwelcoming.”
她说，在公共视野中，不管一个女人是不是把自己当作女性主义者，这都是一种符号学行为，名人不愿意完全接受是因为，“‘如果我不说出正确的东西，或恰如其分地表达，我就会遭到唾弃。’因此这种提问显得好像审判，而且令人讨厌。”
Andi Zeisler, 41, a founder of the feminist pop culture magazine Bitch, said, “Just the fact that these questions are being asked shows that feminism is a lot more accepted.” The problem, she said, is that some celebrities do not know what the core values and goals of feminism are.
41岁的安迪·泽斯勒(Andi Zeisler)是女性主义流行文化杂志《贱女》(Bitch)的创始人，她说：“这些问题被问出来本身就说明女性主义已经被更广泛地接受了。”问题在于，有些名人不明白女性主义的核心价值和目标。
“I don’t care if people don’t identify as feminist,” Ms. Zeisler said. She does have a problem with misinformation and the perpetuation of the idea that feminism is “this zero-sum game that if it elevates women, then it denigrates men. That’s just wrong and has never been what feminism is about. That’s the Fox News version of feminism.”
“我不在乎人们不愿被认为是女性主义者，”泽斯勒说。不过，对于“男女之间有你没我的竞争，如果提升女性就会贬低男性”说法的长盛不衰及其所造成的误导，她是不满的，她说，“那是错的，女性主义从来不是这样。这是福克斯新闻版的女性主义。”
Over the last year, feminism has achieved a certain ubiquity in pop culture. Last October, Glamour magazine published an article with the title “The New Do: Calling Yourself a Feminist.” Sheryl Sandberg, 44, the chief operating officer of Facebook and the author of “Lean In,” told HuffPost Live in April: “I embrace the word ‘feminism.’ I didn’t do it earlier in my career and I talk about why in the book, but I embrace it now because what feminism is, is a belief that the world should be equal, that men and women should have equal opportunity.”
去年，女性主义在流行文化中到处开花。去年10月，《魅力》(Glamour)杂志刊登了一篇文章，题为《新行动：说自己是女性主义者》(The New Do: Calling Yourself a Feminist)。Facebook的首席运营官、《上前一步》(Lean In)的作者，44岁的雪莉·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)4月对HuffPost Live网站说：“我接受‘女性主义’这个词。我在事业生涯的早期并不是这样的，我也在书里解释了原因，但我现在接受了它，因为女性主义是一种信仰，认为世界应当是平等的，男人和女人应当享有平等的机会。”
As was widely discussed in social media, Beyoncé, 32, also had a form of feminist coming-out last winter. She had previously flirted with the term, telling British Vogue last spring, “I guess I am a modern-day feminist.” But she also added, “Why do you have to choose what type of woman you are? Why do you have to label yourself anything? I’m just a woman, and I love being a woman.”
正如社交媒体上广泛讨论的，去年冬天，32岁的 碧昂斯(Beyoncé)也以某种形式公开承认自己是女性主义者。她曾经玩弄对待这个概念，去年春天，她对英国版《Vogue》说，“我觉得我是现代的女性主义者，”但她也说，“为什么你得选择自己是哪一种女人呢？为什么你要给自己贴标签呢？我只是个女人，我喜欢做女人。”
By the December release of her album “Beyoncé,” one song on it, “Flawless,” sampled the TED talk of the author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie titled “We Should All Be Feminists,” and includes a quote from it: “Feminist: the person who believes in the social, political and economic equality of the sexes.” And in January, the singer wrote a post entitled “Gender Equality Is a Myth!” for The Shriver Report.
在她12月发行的专辑《碧昂斯》(Beyoncé)中，有一首歌叫《完美无瑕》(Flawless)，采样了作家希玛曼达·恩戈齐· 阿迪奇 (Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie)的TED演讲《我们都应该做女性主义者》(We Should All Be Feminists)，其中有一句话是：“女性主义者就是一个相信社会、政治与经济的性别平等的人。”1月，碧昂斯为The Shriver Report写了一篇帖子，题为《性别平等是个神话》。
Ms. Zeisler pointed to Beyoncé as a celebrity who “publicly grappled with feminism and found her own path to it — that’s the right way to do it, rather than denigrating it, which is what happens with these sound bites.”
泽斯勒指出，作为名人，碧昂斯“在公众面前努力应付女性主义概念，并找到了自己的方法——这才是正确的方式，而不是像一些名人引言中那样，去对它进行诋毁。”
Beyond the confines of Hollywood, American women appear to be warming to the term; according to a study by Ms. Magazine, the number of women calling themselves feminists increased from 50 percent in 2006 to 68 percent in 2012.
在好莱坞之外，美国女人们似乎对这个字眼抱有好感，根据《女士杂志》(Ms. Magazine)的研究，把自己称为女性主义者的女人从2006年的50%增加到了2012年的68%。
But ambivalence like Ms. Woodley’s is as much a part of the discussion. Monica Lewinsky, 40, wrote in Vanity Fair’s June issue, “Given my experience of being passed around like gender-politics cocktail food, I don’t identify myself as a Feminist, capital F.”
但类似伍德蕾的那种矛盾心理也是话题的一部分。40岁的莫妮卡·莱温斯基为《名利场》(Vanity Fair)的六月号写了一篇文章，其中说，“鉴于我曾像性别政治的鸡尾酒宴小食品一样被人们传递的经历，我并不把自己当做首字母大写的女性主义者。”
And she is joined by a host of other celebrities who question the usage, including Lady Gaga, 28, who was quoted telling a Norwegian camera crew, “I’m not a feminist! I love men! I hail men.” Kelly Clarkson, 32, told Time last October, “I think when people hear feminist, it’s like, ‘Get out of my way, I don’t need anyone’.” Carrie Underwood, Katy Perry, Carla Bruni, Sandra Day O’Connor and Taylor Swift have similarly distanced themselves from the designation during their careers.
还有许多名人和她一样，质疑女性主义这个词的用法，其中也包括28岁的Lady Gaga，她曾对一个挪威摄制组说：“我不是女性主义者，我爱男人！我赞美男人。”去年10月，32岁的凯莉·克拉克森(Kelly Clarkson)对《时代周刊》说：“我觉得当人们听到‘女性主义’这个词的时候，会觉得‘滚开，我可不需要一个女性主义者’。”凯莉·安德伍德(Carrie Underwood)、凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)、卡拉·布鲁尼(Carla Bruni)、桑德拉·戴·奥康纳(Sandra Day O’Connor)和泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)在事业生涯中也曾经表示过对这个名词的疏远。
When Marissa Mayer, 38, the chief executive of Yahoo, appeared in the PBS/AOL documentary “Makers,” she spoke of her own issues with the term.
雅虎公司的首席执行官，38岁的玛丽莎·梅尔(Marissa Mayer)在PBS/AOL的纪录片《缔造者》(Makers)中，说了自己和这个词之间的一些过节。
“I don’t think that I would consider myself a feminist,” she said. “I think that, I certainly believe in equal rights. I believe that women are just as capable, if not more so, in a lot of different dimensions. But I don’t, I think, have sort of the militant drive and sort of the chip on the shoulder that sometimes comes with that.”
“我不觉得我应当把自己视为女性主义者，”她说。“我的想法是，我当然相信平等权利。我相信在很多方面，女人和男人一样能干，如果不是更能干的话。但我想我并没有女性主义那种好斗的动力和随时准备吵架的劲头。”
In response, some celebrities have gone out of their way in interviews to express bafflement with women who won’t say they are feminists. Lena Dunham, 28, told Metro UK in early 2013 that her “greatest pet peeve” was women spurning the term. Last summer in The Guardian, Ellen Page, 27, said: “I don’t know why people are so reluctant to say they’re feminists. Maybe some women just don’t care. But how could it be any more obvious that we still live in a patriarchal world when feminism is a bad word?”
作为回应，有些名人在访谈中说，他们对于那些不认为自己是女性主义的女人们感到困惑。28岁的莉娜·杜哈姆(Lena Dunham)2013年对《Metro》英国版说，她“最大的小愤怒”就是那些蔑视女性主义的女人们。去年夏天，27岁的艾伦·佩奇(Ellen Page)对《卫报》(The Guardian)说：“我不知道人们为什么那么不愿意说自己是女性主义者，也许有些女人只是不在乎。但是当‘女性主义’仍然是一个坏字眼，这不是很明显地证明我们仍然生活在一个父权社会吗？”
The actress Amy Poehler, 42, told Elle earlier this year: “Some big actors and musicians feel like they have to speak to their audience and that word is confusing to their audience. But I don’t get it. That’s like someone being like, ‘I don’t really believe in cars, but I drive one every day and I love that it gets me places and makes life so much easier and faster and I don’t know what I would do without it.’ ”
42岁的女演员埃米·珀勒(Amy Poehler)今年早些时候对《Elle》说，“有些著名演员和音乐家觉得他们得对自己的观众说点什么，而这个词对观众们来说过于模糊了。但我不能理解。就像有人说：‘我不相信汽车，但我每天都开车，我喜欢开车四处跑，它让我的生活变得轻松快捷，我不知道自己能不能没有它。’”
The problem is really whether a famous person is simply checking the feminist box, said Roxane Gay, the author of an essay collection “Bad Feminist,” which comes out this summer.
将于今年夏天出版的《坏的女性主义者》(Bad Feminist)文集的作者罗克珊娜·盖伊(Roxane Gay)说，问题在于名人是否检视了女性主义这个概念。
“Forty years ago it was a good question, but in 2014 it’s a ridiculous question and a lazy question,” said Ms. Gay, 39. “As culture critics, we have to start advancing the conversation and asking questions that are more grounded in feminism, like ‘How does feminism shape your life?’ ”
“40年前，这是个好问题，但在2014年，这就是个可笑的问题，而且是个懒惰的问题，”39岁的盖伊说。“作为文化评论家，我们还得就女性主义的基础发起讨论，提出诸如‘女性主义怎样影响了你的生活’之类基本问题。”
In fact, in “Who Needs Feminism,” a photography project that originated at Duke University in 2012, students posed with notecards with their answers to the question, “Who needs feminism?” The phrasing was paramount, said Rachel F. Seidman, an adjunct assistant professor of history and women’s and gender studies at the University of North Carolina who was teaching a course at Duke.
《谁需要女性主义》(Who Needs Feminism)是杜克大学2012年发起的一个摄影计划，被拍照的学生们举着卡片，上面写着他们对“谁需要女性主义”这个问题的答案。北卡罗来纳大学历史与女性和性别研究的副教授蕾切尔·F塞德曼(Rachel F. Seidman)说，措辞很重要;她也在杜克大学授课。
“The students decided to do a p.r. campaign for feminism as their final project,” Dr. Seidman said. “The idea was everybody should be able to complete this sentence, ‘I need feminism because....’ By phrasing it that way, rather than claiming it as an identity, young people were able to say this is a tool kit I can use without making it be ‘this is who I am and this is only who I am.’ That was key in why this became so popular so fast.”
“学生们打算以女性主义为主题做一个摄影计划，作为他们的毕业课题，”塞德曼博士说。“他们的点子是，所有受访者都要填完这个句子，‘我需要女性主义是因为……’这样措辞不算是把女性主义强调为一种身份，于是年轻人就会把它当做一种可以使用的工具，而不是把它当做‘这是我的身份，这是我唯一的身份’。这是这个项目很快受到欢迎的关键。”
But there is value in public figures taking up the movement, said Martha Plimpton, 43, an actress who, like Ms. Woodley, became famous during her teenage years.
但公众人物的价值观也是女性主义运动的组成部分，43岁的玛莎·普利姆顿(Martha Plimpton)说，她和伍德蕾一样，是十几岁就成名的演员。
“I take a lot of pride in calling myself a feminist and always have,” she wrote in an email. “We’re going to have to insist on correcting bigotry as it happens, in real time. And fear of women’s equality, or the diminishment of it, is a kind of bigotry. I think it’s important to remove the stigma associated with women’s equality, and as such, yes, normalizing the word ‘feminist’ and making sure people know what it means is incredibly important, whether we’re talking to celebrities or anyone.”
“我一直都骄傲地把自己称为女性主义者，”她在电子邮件中写道。“我们得坚持随时随地修正偏见。对女性平等权利的恐惧，或对女性权利的缩减，都是偏见。我觉得要消除这种污名，坚持问人们知道不知道女性主义的涵义是很重要的，不管对方是不是名人。”