Russia’s Victory Day, celebrated on May 9th, has for decades been its most unifying event of the year domestically and its least controversial holiday internationally. But because of the peculiarities of the Kremlin’s politics of history, Moscow’s annexation of Crimea and the ongoing struggle over Ukraine, even the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the end of the Great Patriotic War has become divisive.
5月9日是俄罗斯的胜利日。几十年来，这一天都是国内最凝聚人心的时刻，也是该国在国际上争议性最小的节日。不过，由于克里姆林宫政治历史的独特之处、莫斯科对克里米亚的吞并，以及正在进行的乌克兰冲突，就连伟大卫国战争70周年的庆祝活动也成了分歧的来源。
Heads of state the world over have been invited to the military parade in Moscow to mark the defeat of Hitler’s Germany. According to the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, leaders from China, Israel, the Czech republic, Serbia, North Korea and most former Soviet republics are planning to attend. But those from the Western countries that were Russia’s closest World War II allies have declined.
世界各国的首脑已经被邀请到莫斯科参加庆祝希特勒德国战败的阅兵仪式。俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·拉夫罗夫(Sergei Lavrov)表示，中国、以色列、捷克、塞尔维亚、朝鲜和多数前苏联国家的领导人计划出席。不过，作为俄罗斯二战时期最亲密盟友，一些西方国家的领导人已经表示不会参加。
Russia has always had a love-hate relationship with the West. Writers from Turgenev to Brodsky worked to build bridges, while others, from Dostoyevsky to Solzhenitsyn, have warned that the West’s morals, cultures and customs are somehow corrupting.
俄罗斯与西方的关系一直爱恨交织。从屠格涅夫到布罗茨基，许多作家都努力搭建桥梁，与此同时，包括陀思妥耶夫斯基和索尔仁尼琴在内的另外一些人则警告，西方的道德、文化和习俗正出现某种堕落。
President Vladimir Putin and his supporters have opted to embrace the view that the West has always sought to corrupt and cheat the Russian people, to thwart the country’s development and prevent Russia from taking its rightful place in the world. They have long insisted that the United States and its allies were unjust to Russia as the Cold War drew to a close, even as Moscow voluntarily gave up its interests in Central and Eastern Europe. And they castigate their own countrymen who have sought and still seek greater ties with the West.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)及其支持者采纳的观点是，西方一直在寻求腐蚀和欺骗俄罗斯人，阻碍这个国家的发展，阻止俄罗斯在世界上获得应有的地位。他们长期以来一直认为，在冷战结束的时候，虽然当时莫斯科主动放弃了在中欧和东欧的利益，美国及其盟友对待俄罗斯的方式仍然很不公平。他们还对那些一直试图寻求与西方加强关系的本国同胞进行了严厉的谴责。
“The greatest criminals in our history were those weaklings who threw Russian power on the floor — Nicholas II and Mikhail Gorbachev — those who allowed the power to be picked up by the hysterics and the madmen,” the journalist Ben Judah reported Mr. Putin as saying privately to his aides.
“我们历史的最大罪人就是那些把俄罗斯的力量扔在地上的懦夫——比如尼古拉二世(Nicholas II)和米哈伊尔·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail Gorbachev)——以及那些允许这种力量被歇斯底里的人和疯子夺走的人，”据记者本·胡达(Ben Judah)报道，普京私下里对幕僚如是说。
These themes have become central to Mr. Putin’s public discourse as well. “It’s time to stop taking note only of the bad things in our history and berating ourselves more than even our opponents would do,” he declared at the annual gathering of international Russia experts known as the Valdai Discussion Club in 2013. “We must be proud of our history.”
这些主题也是普京的公共话语的核心。“我们不应该再这样，只盯着我们历史中的坏事然后妄自菲薄了，就连我们的对手都不会这样谴责我们，”他在2013年俄罗斯智库瓦尔代辩论俱乐部(Valdai Discussion Club)的年度会议上说。“我们必须为我们的历史感到骄傲。”
Mr. Putin has buttressed his domestic standing by bending history to justify his self-proclaimed mission to reclaim Russia’s lost glory. In a documentary released on national TV to coincide with the anniversary of the annexation of Crimea, which officially became part of Russia on March 21, 2014, Mr. Putin took personal responsibility for the move, calling the loss of the peninsula and the historic Russian naval port of Sebastapol as the Soviet Union collapsed a “historic injustice” that had to be corrected.
通过歪曲历史，普京将其自作主张定下的光复俄罗斯之使命合法化，并以此巩固了自己在国内的地位。俄罗斯吞并克里米亚周年纪念日当天，普京在全国电视台播放的一部纪录片中称其个人对这项行动负责，并表示，苏联解体时失去这座半岛以及历史上曾为俄罗斯海军港的塞瓦斯托波尔市，是“历史的不公”，需要被纠正过来。克里米亚于2014年3月21日正式成为俄罗斯的一部分。
This premise is certainly a selective one. Take the case of Perm-36, a museum of Soviet repression created in 1992 on the site of a former penal colony 800 miles east of Moscow. The privately run museum, named after the Soviet designation for the prison camp, was dedicated to the victims of Stalinism. But the local government, sensing a need to demonstrate loyalty to the Kremlin, pushed the organization out. Perm-36 will soon reopen as a state museum dedicated to the airbrushed history of the Russian penal system.
这个前提条件当然是有选择性的。就拿Perm-36的例子来说，这是一个有关苏联时代镇压异见的博物馆，博物馆成立于1992年，位于莫斯科以东800英里的前流放地。这家私人经营的博物馆得名于这个劳改营苏联时代的名称，是专门为斯大林主义的受害者而建的。但当地政府觉得有必要证明自己对克里姆林宫的忠诚，于是把经营机构赶走了。Perm-36很将快作为一个国家博物馆重新开放，专门介绍俄罗斯刑罚制度的美化了的历史。
This distorted approach to the past, which stresses Russian triumphs while dismissing Russian crimes, continues in the Kremlin’s current relations with Washington and the capitals of Western Europe. Nowhere is this more obvious than in Russia’s relationship with Germany, a country that has built its post-World War II identity on being open and penitent about the dark side of its history. On a recent visit to Japan, Chancellor Angela Merkel said that Germany, despite the brutality and horror of the Hitler era, is now accepted by the international community not only because of the generosity of its neighbors but also because of the “readiness in Germany to face our history openly and squarely.”
这种强调俄罗斯的胜利、而不提俄罗斯罪行的扭曲历史的做法，在克里姆林宫与华盛顿以及西欧政府的关系上延续着。这在俄罗斯与德国的关系上表现得再明显不过了，德国二战后的国家认同是建立在公开忏悔本国历史阴暗面的基础之上的。在最近一次对日本进行访问时，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)说，尽管有过希特勒时代的残酷和恐怖，但德国现已被国际社会接受，这不仅是因为邻国的慷慨，也是因为“德国愿意公开地正视我们的历史”。
Today Ms. Merkel presides over Europe’s biggest and most successful economy. Gradually and reluctantly, Germany is assuming a leading role on European foreign policy issues. The Ukraine crisis — and the low-key stance the Obama administration has taken in dealing with it — have forced her to take the initiative.
如今，默克尔主持着欧洲最大且最成功的经济体。德国正在逐渐地、不情愿地在欧洲的外交政策问题上起主导作用。乌克兰危机、以及奥巴马政府在对付这一危机时所采取的低调姿态，迫使德国采取主动。
After the Soviet Union’s collapse, it was both symbolic and justified that Germany, Russia’s bitterest enemy in Europe’s most ugly and murderous war, became the nation that took its strategic relationship with Russia the most seriously.
苏联解体之后，在欧洲最丑陋、最凶残的战争中，充当俄罗斯最可恨的敌人的德国，成为最看重与俄罗斯的战略伙伴关系的国家，这既有象征性，也是和合理的。
“German policy makers really did think they, and they alone, could bring Russia into the West,” says Constanze Stelzenmüller, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “Germany was Russia’s bridgehead into Europe. Vladimir Putin has destroyed this bridge single-handedly.”
“德国的政策制定者们的确认为他们，只有他们，才能将俄罗斯带入西方阵营，”布鲁金斯学会高级研究员康斯坦斯·斯特尔岑穆勒(Constanze Stelzenmüller)说。“德国是俄罗斯进入欧洲的桥头堡。弗拉基米尔·普京一手摧毁了这座桥。”