A particular wave of crime has yet to crest, a pattern of theft in Manhattan that has penetrated the safest of neighborhoods.
一波特殊的犯罪浪潮正在蔓延。在曼哈顿，一类盗窃案件已经渗透到最安全的街区。
I scream. 
我尖叫。
The thieves know just where to strike, entering stores and making their way through the aisles, past the diapers, the formula, the razors and deodorant.
窃贼们知道该去哪儿偷，他们进入商店，沿着过道一直走，一路经过尿不湿、处方食品、剃须刀和除臭剂。
You scream. 
你尖叫。
In response, stores have put in place all manner of security measures. Cameras. Alarms. New locks. Security patrols.
作为回应，商店已经采取了各种安保措施。摄像头、警告、换新锁，保安巡逻。
We all scream.
我们都尖叫。
But nothing has stopped the thieves from taking the very specific item — one of life’s enduring, sweet pleasures as summer takes a bow — that they have come for.
但是没有任何东西能阻止窃贼们盗取那样特别的东西——值此夏日鞠躬谢幕之际，生活中那桩长久甜蜜的享受——他们为的就是它。
For ice cream. 
为了冰淇淋。
The police have asked the public for assistance in identifying four suspects in a string of ice cream thefts since at least November. The suspects have stolen approximately 1,249 cartons or bars of ice cream and gelato in 11 thefts, the police said. All the thefts took place in chain stores like Duane Reade, CVS and Rite Aid.
至少从去年11月开始，已经出现了一连串冰淇淋盗窃案，警察呼吁公众协助，找出其中的四名嫌犯。警方说，这些嫌犯在11次盗窃行为中偷窃了大约1249份盒装或条装的美式和意式冰淇淋。所有盗窃行为都发生在Duane Reade、CVS、和来德爱(Rite Aid)这样的连锁店。
“They come at night, like two or three of them, with bags,” Gabriel Rosario said, stocking shelves last week at a Duane Reade near Washington Square Park. “They fill them up and run out of the store.”
“他们在夜晚带着包前来，大概是两三个人，”上个星期，在华盛顿广场公园附近一家Duane Reade店工作的加布里埃尔·罗萨里奥(Gabriel Rosario)一边清点货架一边说。“他们把包袋装满，然后跑出店外。”
They generally favor Ben & Jerry’s, Talenti, Haagen-Dazs. On one day in January, thieves made off with 256 pints of ice cream — including 100 pints of Haagen-Dazs and 100 more of Talenti — in three separate heists.
他们最喜欢的品牌一般是本与杰瑞( Ben & Jerry’s)、塔伦泰(Talenti)和哈根达斯(Haagen-Dazs)。一月里的一天，盗贼们从三处不同的地方偷了256品脱的冰淇淋，其中包括100品脱的哈根达斯和100多品脱的塔伦泰。
“Summertime, they do it all the time,” said a worker in the cosmetics section of a Duane Reade in the Kips Bay neighborhood.
“夏天的时候他们经常偷，”基普湾地区Duane Reade店化妆品部的一个店员说。
“Two guys came in with duffel bags,” said Jason Valentin, an employee at a Duane Reade five blocks away, recalling a recent encounter. “I saw them and they saw me. They dumped the ice cream on the floor and ran out.” There was only one thing he could do. “Pick it up,” Mr. Valentin said. “Put it back.”
“两个带着粗呢大包的家伙走进来，”五个街区之外，一家Duane Reade店的工作人员杰森·瓦伦丁(Jason Valentin)回忆最近的一次遭遇。“我看见了他们，他们也看见我了。他们把冰淇淋扔在地上跑了出去。”他能做的只有一件事。“我把它们捡起来放了回去，”瓦伦丁说。
Deputy Chief Joseph V. Dowling, with the Police Department’s grand larceny division, said that detectives were investigating businesses that may be acting as fences for the stolen ice cream, paying about 25 cents on the dollar.
警察局主管重大盗窃案部门的副总警监约瑟夫·V·道林(Joseph V. Dowling)说，警探们正在调查那些可能窝藏冰淇淋赃物的商家，他们以单价25美分买下赃物。
“They go and resell it to local mom-and-pop stores, bodegas, delis, things like that,” he said. “They transport it in freezer bags with dry ice or those frozen packs. You’re traveling to sell it.”
“窃贼们把这些冰淇淋转卖给本地的家庭小店、酒精类饮品店和熟食店之类的，”他说。“他们用装着干冰或冷冻包的保温袋运送冰淇淋。边走边卖。”
Thefts got so bad in recent weeks at the New York City grocery chain Gristedes that its owner, John A. Catsimatidis, announced a $5,000 reward for information leading to the apprehension of thieves who had targeted his stores. And on Aug. 21, the police arrested a man and a woman on charges of stealing ice cream from a Gristedes.
最近几周，窃贼猖獗地光顾纽约小型连锁超市Gristedes, 它的老板约翰·A·卡兹马提迪斯(John A. Catsimatidis)宣布悬赏5000美元，寻找任何有助于把这些窃贼捉拿归案的信息。8月21日，警察逮捕了一男一女，指控他们从一家Gristedes店盗窃冰淇淋。
Mr. Catsimatidis paid the reward to a worker at a bodega who had flagged down the police after the suspects tried to sell stolen ice cream — hot ice cream, as it were — to him.
卡兹马提迪斯向一家酒精饮品店的工作人员支付了报酬，两个疑犯向该工作人员兜售偷来的冰淇淋（它们热乎乎的），于是他通知了警方。
“They were selling it to anybody they could sell it to,” Mr. Catsimatidis said. And selling it as quickly as possible, which is often not quickly enough, given the nature of the goods. “When you buy it from a place like that, you get half-melted Haagen-Dazs,” he said.
“他们向任何愿买的人出售它们，”卡兹马提迪斯说。而且，因为这种物品的特性，他们必须尽快出手，但通常都不够快。“如果你从收赃的地方买冰淇淋，就只能吃到融化了一半的哈根达斯，”他说。
He said his stores no longer displayed Haagen-Dazs in stacks. Too easy to shove several pints into a bag quickly. “We put it in only one high, so you have to take them out one at a time,” he said.
他说，自己的店现在不会把哈根达斯堆放起来了。这样会方便盗贼把好几品脱冰淇淋一下子装进袋子里。“我们现在只放一个在上面，所以他们一次只能拿走一个，”他说。
When cashiers at a Duane Reade in the Flatiron district see someone behaving suspiciously, they play a recorded warning over the public-address system: “Security, walk the floor.” A large screen near where the ice cream is kept shows the surveillance feed from the camera trained on the cooler. It has not deterred thieves, who have raided that store four times since December — twice on one day, 90 minutes apart.
熨斗区一家Duane Reade店的收银员们一旦觉得有人可疑，就会用公共广播系统播放录音警报：“保安，请在店内巡逻。”店内冰淇淋区域旁边的大屏幕上持续显示着对准冷柜的摄像头所拍摄的监视画面。但这也没能吓退盗贼们。自从去年12月，盗贼四次洗劫了这家店，有一天还接连洗劫了两次，中间相隔90分钟。
“It was a guy in a blue shirt,” said an employee of the store, Issa Sow, recalling a recent theft. “The manager came and said, ‘Oh, he stole all the ice cream!’”
“是个穿蓝色衬衫的男人，”这家店的雇员艾莎·索(Issa Sow)回忆起前不久遇到的一个窃贼。“后来店长来了，说，‘啊，他把所有的冰淇淋都偷走了！’”
At a CVS store nearby, an alarm has been installed on the ice cream cooler, alerting employees whenever anyone — a regular customer, a happy child, a desperate criminal — opens it. Other CVS stores have put locks on their coolers as well, and customers must ask an employee to open them, Chief Dowling said.
在附近的一家CVS店，冰淇淋冷柜旁边装上了警报器，任何人打开冷柜时——不管是一个普通顾客、一个快乐的孩子还是一个心急的罪犯——都会向雇员发送警报。另一家CVS店也锁住了自己的冷柜，想买冰淇淋的顾客得让店员来帮他们打开，道尔警监说。
“A lot of people are, ‘Oh, it’s only ice cream,’” the chief said. “It’s not. It’s a product. You’re looking at profit loss.”
“很多人会说，‘啊，不就是冰淇淋吗，’”警监说。“并非如此，它是一种商品，这样会导致利益损失。”
To Mr. Rosario, of the Duane Reade near Washington Square Park, it is more than that.
华盛顿广场附近那家Duane Reade店的店长罗萨里奥觉得，事情还不止如此。
“It’s sad,” he said. “To resort to stealing ice cream.”
“真是太可悲了，”他说，“要靠偷冰淇淋为生。”