WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump has become a virtual homebody during his first few months in office, largely sitting out the honeymoon period that other presidents have used to hit the road and rally support for their priorities.
佛罗里达州西棕榈滩——上台后的头几个月里，特朗普总统几乎成了一个宅男。在其他总统会四处奔走为自己的重点事项争取支持的蜜月期里，他基本上没有出门。
Mr. Trump, who dislikes spending the night away from home and has been adapting to life at the White House, has rarely ventured far from the Executive Mansion or his Mar-a-Lago retreat in Florida during his first 85 days in office. He has not strayed west of the Mississippi River, appearing at public events in only seven states and eschewing trips overseas. He is planning to travel to Wisconsin on Tuesday, and his first international trip is scheduled for next month, when he is to visit Brussels and Italy for meetings with world leaders.
在上台后的前85天里，不喜欢在外过夜并一直在适应白宫生活的特朗普很少远离白宫或他位于佛罗里达州的马阿拉歌庄园。他没去过密西西比河以西的地方，只在七个州的公开活动上现过身，对海外出访也是避之不及。他目前正计划周二前往威斯康星州，他的首次外事访问安排在下月。届时，他将前往布鲁塞尔和意大利，同世界领导人举行会谈。
By contrast, President Barack Obama had made public appearances in nine states and taken three overseas trips by this point in his presidency, and was beginning his fourth journey abroad. And President George W. Bush had stopped in 23 states by mid-April during his first year in office and also visited Canada.
相比之下，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统到这个时候已经在九个州公开亮相、进行了三次海外出访并即将开启第四次。乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统在上任第一年的4月中旬之前已经去过23个州，并访问过加拿大。
“We are not seeing this president following the norm of going out to the public and making his case in the same way as presidents have for as far back as you want to go,” said James A. McCann, a professor of political science at Purdue University who has studied presidential travel patterns. “Trump is going to his own drummer, as usual. It’s a risky strategy.”
“我们没有看到这位总统遵循惯例，像之前的所有总统那样与公众接触，阐述自己的观点，”普渡大学(Purdue University)研究总统出行规律的政治学教授詹姆斯·A·麦卡恩(James A. McCann)说。“特朗普照例会特立独行。这是一项有风险的策略。”
Most presidents, hoping to seize on the public optimism that normally accompanies the start of a new administration, head out into the country to promote their agendas and apply political pressure — overt or otherwise — on lawmakers to fall in line. But Mr. Trump has held just a small number of political rallies in Florida, Tennessee and Kentucky, all states he won comfortably; visited a pair of military bases in Virginia and Florida; and spoken to aerospace and automotive workers in South Carolina and Michigan.
伴随着新政府的成立，民众通常都持乐观态度。大部分总统都希望利用这种乐观情绪，去全国各地宣传自己的议程，并或明或暗地向议员施加政治压力，要求对方就范。但特朗普只在佛罗里达州、田纳西州和肯塔基州举行了少量政治集会，这些都是他轻松获胜的州；只视察了弗吉尼亚州和佛罗里达州的两处军事基地；只在南卡罗来纳州和密歇根州对航空航天和汽车行业的劳动者发表过讲话。
“When you’re president, you don’t travel to get frequent flier miles — you travel to make a point,” said Ari Fleischer, a former press secretary to Mr. Bush, who used one elaborate tour to stop in states of Democratic senators whose support he needed for his tax-cut plan.
“当了总统，你出行就不是为了获得常客飞行里程，而是为了发表观点，”曾任布什的新闻发言人的阿里·弗莱舍(Ari Fleischer)说。布什曾精心安排行程，前往联邦参议员席位由民主党把持的州。他的减税计划需要这些参议员的支持。
“It’s surprising,” he continued, referring to Mr. Trump, “that he hasn’t used that power of the presidency to announce big policy initiatives and really drive home his point.”
“令人震惊，”他这样评价特朗普，“他居然没有利用总统职位的权力宣布大型政策行动，真正全面阐述自己的观点。”
The White House says Mr. Trump, who has faced vexing problems at home and abroad, has avoided travel in order to focus on an ambitious domestic agenda, including the signing of executive orders and legislation to roll back Obama-era regulations. And he has used his time at the White House and at Mar-a-Lago to host an array of foreign leaders in an effort to repair relationships around the world.
白宫称特朗普在国内外都面临令人烦恼的问题，他避免出访是为了把精力集中在一个宏大的国内议程上，包括签署行政命令和立法，废除奥巴马时期的管制。他还利用在白宫和马阿拉歌庄园的时间招待了一批外国领导人，试图以此修复同世界各国的关系。
“Every time you travel, you’re eating up a big chunk of the day, so you have to be really strategic about it,” said Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary. “When you’re really trying to get a lot done, you have to budget your time very carefully, and we’re going to continue to be smart about the best use of his time, because his time is his most valuable asset.”
“每次出行，都要耗费大量时间，所以必须真正从战略上考虑，”白宫新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)说。“当你真的想完成很多事情的时候，你必须非常谨慎地安排时间，我们会继续保持明智，把他的时间利用到最好，因为时间是他最宝贵的资产。”
“The pace of his schedule has been nonstop,” Mr. Spicer added.
“他的日程安排中没有一刻的停歇，”斯派塞接着说。
While the president has stayed close to home, he has dispatched Vice President Mike Pence to go farther afield. With Mr. Trump at Mar-a-Lago for Easter weekend, Mr. Pence arrived in Seoul, South Korea, on Sunday to start a 10-day trip through Asia, during which North Korea’s provocations were to be a major topic of discussion.
尽管总统不出远门，但他把副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)派了出去。特朗普周末在马阿拉歌庄园过复活节时，彭斯周日抵达韩国首尔，开启了长达十天的亚洲之旅。在此期间，朝鲜的挑衅将是主要的讨论议题。
Members of Mr. Trump’s cabinet have also traveled extensively, with Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia last week and the defense secretary, Jim Mattis, traveling to South Korea and Japan in February.
特朗普的内阁成员也大量出访，国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)上周与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)举行会谈，国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)也曾在2月访问韩国和日本。
White House officials had said Mr. Trump planned to travel extensively after his address to a joint session of Congress in February, as many presidents do to promote the domestic proposals featured in their State of the Union addresses. But a road show never materialized.
特朗普2月在国会联席会议上发表完讲话后，白宫官员曾表示他计划大量出行。很多总统都是这么做的，为的是宣传他们的国情咨文演说中的国内议案。但路演从未兑现。
Mr. Fleisher said that was not entirely a surprise. “It makes some sense that Donald Trump, whose candidacy was so much more about him — how he was different, how he could change Washington — rather than specific policy proposals, that his travel would be more about him personally than any initiative,” he said.
弗莱舍称这也不是特别出人意料。“在一定程度上是说得通的，因为唐纳德·特朗普的竞选就更多的是围绕他个人——他怎么独特，怎么能改变华盛顿——而不是具体的政策建议，因此他的出行可能也会更多地围绕他个人，而不是任何计划进行，”他说。
The travel that Mr. Trump has done has often been more about his own political future than about policy persuasion.
特朗普已经完成的出行，通常更多的是为了他自己的政治前途，而不是政治说服。
“What’s striking with President Trump is not only how contained his travel has been, but how much of it is around campaign rallies, rather than something he wants to get done,” said Kathryn Dunn Tenpas, a Brookings Institution scholar who has studied presidential travel.
“特朗普总统不同寻常的地方不仅在于他的出行多么有限，还在于很多出行都是围绕竞选集会，而不是他想要完成的任务进行的，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)研究总统出行的学者凯瑟琳·杜恩·坦帕斯(Kathryn Dunn Tenpas)说.
If Mr. Trump were following past practice, Dr. Tenpas added, he would have traveled the country to push the Republican plan to overhaul health care, his first foray into legislative deal making. That effort collapsed last month after both conservative and moderate Republicans joined Democrats in opposing it.
坦帕斯接着表示，如果特朗普遵循以往的做法，他本应该开始尝试达成立法协议，到全美各地去推销共和党改革医疗保健的计划。上月，在保守派和温和派共和党人加入民主党的反对阵营后，该计划以失败告终。
But Mr. Spicer argued that a presidential road show on health care would not have changed the outcome, because Democrats had dug in against the plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act from the start.
但斯派塞认为，总统即便就医疗保健计划举行路演也改变不了结果，因为民主党一开始就坚决反对这个废除《平价医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的计划。
“That was pretty much a baked deal from the get-go,” he said.
“那几乎从一开始就是一个失败的协议，”他说。
For now, the most frequent destination for Mr. Trump outside Washington has been Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach, Fla. He returned on Thursday, making a trip for Easter weekend — his seventh since taking office — that included near-daily stops at his golf resort in West Palm Beach. Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has spent 24 days at the exclusive club, sometimes called the Winter White House.
目前，特朗普除华盛顿外最常去的地方就是位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的马阿拉歌庄园。他周四回到这里过周末的复活节——这是他上台后第七次来——几乎每天都会去西棕榈滩的高尔夫球场。自担任总统以来，特朗普已在这个高档俱乐部——有时被称作“冬季白宫”——待了24天。
The president has used Mar-a-Lago as a staging ground for meetings with foreign leaders, including Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and President Xi Jinping of China.
特朗普还把马阿拉歌作为会见多位外国领导人的舞台，包括日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)和中国国家主席习近平。
Democrats and government watchdog groups have questioned the cost of the president’s Palm Beach excursions, and late last month, the Government Accountability Office began a review of the security procedures at Mar-a-Lago and the expense incurred by taxpayers for Mr. Trump’s trips there.
民主党和政府监督团体对总统前往棕榈滩的花费提出了质疑。上月底，政府问责局(Government Accountability Office)开始审查马阿拉歌庄园的安保程序和纳税人为总统去那里花费了多少钱。
The president’s limited travel stands in stark contrast with his approach during his campaign, when he kept up a rapid pace of events throughout the country. But it may be in line with his approach of making spontaneous decisions that have at times left White House aides struggling to respond.
总统出行有限与他竞选时的做法形成了鲜明的对比。竞选期间，他保持频繁参加全美各地的活动。但这也许符合他即兴发挥的风格。有时候，这些决定让他在白宫的助手难以回应。
Presidential travel is complicated and time-consuming to plan, from scouting locations to determining a secure route for the motorcade. And Mr. Trump has vacillated about what his first policy priorities will be — shifting from health care to tax cuts and back to health care — which has most likely made it difficult to plot a travel schedule that would give him a strategic advantage.
总统的出行计划起来复杂且耗时，从挑选地方到为车队确定安全的路线。而特朗普在自己第一批政策重点是什么上犹豫不决——从医疗保健改为减税，后来又回到医疗保健——这极有可能导致难以安排一个会给他带来战略优势的出行日程。
Mr. Spicer argued that was not a factor in Mr. Trump’s limited travel schedule.
斯派塞称这不是特朗普的出行日程安排有限的因素。
“It’s all about priorities,” he said.
“都是为了重点，”他说。