In July, as a polite 26-year-old Chinese-born New Yorker named Wu Yue put together a string of table tennis victories at the Pan American Games in Toronto, the cheers from a bearded man wearing a trucker hat were impossible to ignore.
今年26岁的吴玥生于中国，现在纽约定居。去年7月，彬彬有礼的她在加拿大多伦多举行的泛美运动会(Pan American Games)乒乓球比赛中取得了一连串胜利。得胜之时，一个头戴棒球帽、蓄着大胡子的男子发出的欢呼声让人无法忽视。
Between matches, he offered Ms. Wu advice: Stay calm. She did, and she won the tournament, making her the only American table tennis player so far to qualify for the women’s team representing the United States at this summer’s Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.
在两场比赛之间，他会向吴玥提出建议：要冷静。她做到了，而且她赢得了这场锦标赛，成为到目前为止唯一取得奥运资格，加入美国国家队的女子乒乓选手，将在夏季参加里约热内卢奥运会。
Fans of standup comedy, or the sitcom “30 Rock,” would probably recognize the excited fan as Judah Friedlander, the comedian and actor. He is a table tennis fanatic, and has been taking lessons with Ms. Wu since she moved to New York eight years ago, from Beijing.
单口喜剧的粉丝、搞笑情景剧《我为喜剧狂》(30 Rock)的观众，可能会认出这个激动的粉丝：笑星和演员贾达·弗雷德兰德(Judah Friedlander)。他是一个狂热的乒乓球爱好者，自吴玥八年前从北京迁居纽约后，他就一直跟着吴玥上乒乓球课。
It is an unlikely relationship between a free-associating, scruffy entertainer and a lithe, reserved, disciplined athlete, and the instruction has flowed both ways.
无拘无束、邋里邋遢的笑星，与这位柔韧、内敛、自律的运动员之间，让人意想不到地结成了友谊，而且他们两人可谓教学相长。
The comedian, who is 46, has lent the Olympic hopeful a hand with language and cultural and career issues, helping her study for her naturalization exam (she gained her United States citizenship a year ago) and offering ideas for fund-raising and setting up an Instagram account to help promote her career.
今年46岁的笑星弗雷德兰德帮助志在奥运会的吴玥应对语言、文化和职业规划的问题，帮助她为归化入籍考试做准备（吴玥在一年前拿到了美国国籍），还为她的筹款献计献策，帮她设置了Instagram账号推广她的事业。
Mr. Friedlander attends Ms. Wu’s matches when his schedule permits, and he hopes to travel to Rio this summer to watch her.
只要日程安排得开，弗雷德兰德就会去观看吴玥的比赛，他还希望今年夏天能到里约热内卢看她打比赛。
Their weekly lessons take place at Spin table tennis club on East 23rd Street in Manhattan. Mr. Friedlander showed up on a recent weekday and traded his usual series of fist bumps with patrons and staffers as he made his way to their regular table.
他们每周一次的训练课程是在曼哈顿东23街的Spin乒乓球俱乐部进行的。弗雷德兰德最近的一个工作日来到这里，朝自己常用的球台走去，他边走边与球友和员工碰拳头。
“How’s it going, girl?” he asked as he plopped himself down on the floor next to Ms. Wu.
他一边坐在吴玥身旁的地板上，一边开口问：“妹子，最近怎么样？”
The two could hardly look more different. Ms. Wu, who is also known by her American name, Jennifer, is soft-spoken and neat. She was wearing smart, sponsored athletic gear, and a delicate jadeite necklace.
两个人看起来差异不能再大了。吴玥在美国使用詹妮弗(Jennifer)这个名字，她嗓音柔和，看起来很干练。她穿着赞助商提供的醒目运动衫，戴着精致的翡翠项坠。
Mr. Friedlander, as unkempt as Frank Rossitano, the schlumpy TV writer he played on “30 Rock,” wore a T-shirt that looked as if it had been stored in his gym bag. He changed from his work boots to his table tennis sneakers. He was affable and constantly conversing with anyone who happened by, from the club owners and star players to the workers sweeping up stray balls on the floor.
弗雷德兰德则像他在《我为喜剧狂》里饰演的邋遢的电视编剧弗兰克·罗西塔诺(Frank Rossitano)一样乱七八糟，他穿着的那件T恤衫，仿佛一直团在健身包里。他脱下工作时的靴子，换上了打乒乓球的鞋。他为人和善，总是会与身边经过的人闲谈，从俱乐部老板到明星球员，再到打扫散落在地上的球的工人。
The two began their one-hour lesson, as usual, with a few minutes of long warm-up rallies, first to the forehand, then to the backhand.
两人开始上长达一小时的课，像往常一样，先要进行几分钟的挥拍热身，先正手再反手。
Ms. Wu and Mr. Friedlander are both fixtures at the club. It has a downtown, loungey feel and attracts celebrities such as Justin Bieber and Prince, “but none of them put in the time like Judah does,” said Jonathan Bricklin, a Spin co-founder.
吴玥和弗雷德兰德都是俱乐部里的常客。这个俱乐部有市中心的氛围和闲适的感觉，因此吸引了贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)和王子(Prince)等名人。但Spin俱乐部的共同创始人乔纳森·布里科林(Jonathan Bricklin)说，“但是他们当中没有任何人花的时间像贾达那么多。”
“They’re a fabulously unlikely odd couple,” he said, watching teacher and student practice. “I’m waiting for her to start helping him with his jokes.”
“他们是一个令人非常意外的组合，“他一边看着两人练习一边说。“我等着看她开始帮他提升讲笑话的能力。”
Ms. Wu grew up in Beijing and came to New York in 2008 at age 17, with the dream of becoming naturalized and earning a spot on the United States Olympic team. Making China’s team was a much tougher prospect, given the many good players vying for spots on a squad that has dominated the sport since it was added to the Olympics in 1988.
吴玥在北京长大。2008年，17岁的她怀揣着加入美国国籍，并在美国的奥运会代表队取得一席之地的梦想来到纽约。入选中国代表队的难度要大得多，因为那里有很多优秀选手在竞争。自乒乓球1988年被列为奥运会比赛项目后，中国队一直统治着这项运动。
She began teaching right away, at the Wang Chen Table Tennis Club on West 100th Street in Manhattan, where Mr. Friedlander was one of her first students.
她很快便开始在曼哈顿西100街的王晨乒乓球俱乐部教球。在那里，弗雷德兰德是她的第一批学生之一。
Mr. Friedlander, who grew up in Maryland, played table tennis at home but was more interested in soccer. He began playing table tennis in earnest 10 years ago and now plays in amateur tournaments. He takes the game very seriously.
弗雷德兰德在马里兰州长大，在家里玩过乒乓球，不过他对足球更感兴趣。10年前，他正式开始打乒乓球，现在正在打业余锦标赛。他非常重视这场比赛。
When he approached Ms. Wu about lessons, she recalled, “He didn’t look like an athlete, but then when I saw him play, it was different.”
吴玥回忆说，当弗雷德兰德找到她说上课的事情时，“他看着不像运动员，不过当我看到他打球的时候，就不一样了。”
She would pantomime the proper technique. He would follow.
她用动作示范正确的技术。他会跟着学。
“You knew two words of English,” he reminded her recently. Soon she knew a few more, including the word “brain,” which she would say to him, pointing to her head. It was her way of telling him he had a good head for the mental game.
“你认得两个英语词，” 弗雷德兰德前不久提醒她说。很快，她便学会了更多的单词，包括“大脑”。她会指着自己的头对他说这个词。这是她告诉弗雷德兰德，他脑子聪明，擅长心理战。
“Every time he plays, he wants to win,” she said. “When he plays, he’s not a comedian anymore.”
“每次打球的时候，他都想赢，”她说。“打球的时候，他就不再是喜剧演员了。”
Indeed, he may appear to be a couch potato, but Mr. Friedlander is anything but lazy. He is out every night keeping his standup skills sharp, at clubs including the Comedy Cellar, the Stand and Caroline’s. He’ll perform as many as five sets in an evening, honing his material and trying out new bits.
的确，他可能看着像整天蜷在沙发上的人。但弗雷德兰德一点都不懒。他每天晚上都去包括Comedy Cellar、Stand和Caroline’s在内的俱乐部表演，保持自己的单口喜剧水准。他一晚上最多会表演五场，在表演中提炼素材并尝试新段子。
He takes his paddles on the road and seeks out table tennis clubs. In New York, he plays not only at Spin but outdoors, with the regulars who gather year-round at the concrete tables in Tompkins Square Park in the East Village.
外出时，他会带上球拍，寻找乒乓球俱乐部。在纽约，他不仅在Spin打球，还会在户外，和常年聚集在东村汤普金斯广场公园(Tompkins Square Park)的水泥台子旁边的人打球。
“It’s a mental break from the annoyingness of show business,” he said, adding that the fast-twitch muscle reactions crucial for table tennis can help on the standup stage. “You have to be thinking so fast,” he explained, “and Ping-Pong is a game where you have to think so fast.”
“这是精神上的放松，可以让我远离和演艺有关的烦心事，”他说，而且在乒乓球中至关重要的肌肉快速反应，对他在台上的表演有帮助。“脑子必须得快，”他解释说。“而在乒乓球这种运动中，脑子也得转得快。”
Mr. Friedlander is also a vocal promoter of the sport. The homemade trucker hats with goofy slogans that he became known for on “30 Rock” were occasionally adorned with references or logos recognizable only to table tennis fans. One of his many friends at Spin is Susan Sarandon, a co-owner of the club. When “30 Rock” was hoping to cast her in an episode in 2011, a producer asked Mr. Friedlander to encourage her to take it. She did.
弗雷德兰德还大力推广这项运动。他在《我为喜剧狂》中因为自制的标有可笑口号的卡车司机帽而出名，帽子上偶尔带有只有乒乓球迷才认识的典故或标志。他在Spin有很多朋友，包括该俱乐部的联合创始人苏珊·萨拉登(Susan Sarandon)。当2011年《我为喜剧狂》希望她参演其中一集时，一名制片人请求弗雷德兰德鼓励她接受邀请。她同意了。
At Spin, Ms. Wu worked from a large basket of balls, feeding Mr. Friedlander shots as he worked on his return. Then it was time to practice his serve, working on sidespin, backspin and topspin and learning the correct moment for each.
在Spin俱乐部，吴玥用一大篮子球帮助弗里德兰德练习回球。然后就轮到让他练习发球，练习侧旋球、下旋球和上旋球，学习在每个时刻该用哪种策略。
Then came more intense rallying that resembled a match. Far from step-by-step instruction, Ms. Wu’s tips were sporadic and brief. His racket was too low. His forehand was too late. His backhand was too early.
然后就是强度更大的类似于比赛的连续对打。吴玥并不会逐步说明，只是偶尔给出简洁的指点：球拍位置太低，正打出手太晚，反手击球出手太早。
“At first, she was teaching me technique,” he said. “Now, it’s more about me not being so dumb as a player.”
“起初，她教我技术，”他说。“如今，更多的是教我打球时不要太犯傻。”
Mr. Friedlander’s occasional eruptions barely seem to affect Ms. Wu’s deadpan expression. Her demeanor is a foil to Mr. Friedlander’s constant chatter.
弗雷德兰德的偶尔爆发似乎没能影响吴玥不露神色的状态。她的神态衬托了弗雷德兰德的喋喋不休。
“My personality is nothing like his,” she said. “Maybe it’s because in table tennis, you can’t show your opponent anything.”
“我的个性跟他不一样，”她说。“或许是因为在打乒乓球时，你不能向对手展示任何情绪。”