There are many routes to a cooking career. Not so long ago, military and prison kitchens were reliable sources of line cooks for American restaurants. Now the siren song of reality television lures many recruits to kitchens and culinary schools.
走上厨师之路有很多途径。不久之前，军队和监狱厨房还是美国餐厅普通厨师的可靠来源。如今，厨艺真人秀的迷人歌声吸引很多人从事厨师行业或者去上烹饪学校。
But until recently, very few American chefs were born into the profession. Even the luminaries who led the American food revolution of the 1970s and ’80s found their own ways to the stove — through travel, like Alice Waters, or anthropology, like Rick Bayless. Their parents were hardly encouraging.
但是从前极少有美国大厨是生于厨师之家。甚至连20世纪七八十年代领导美国食品革命的杰出人物也是自己找到成功之路的——比如爱丽丝·沃特斯(Alice Waters)是通过旅行，里克·贝利斯(Rick Bayless)是通过研究人类学。他们的父母极少在其中起到鼓舞作用。
“Cooking was not considered a respectable or profitable profession,” said Maria Guarnaschelli, an eminent cookbook editor and the mother of Alex Guarnaschelli, who is the chef at Butter, in Greenwich Village. “We never thought our daughter would be a chef.”
“做厨师不被认为是一个受人尊敬或者赚钱的职业，”玛丽亚·瓜尔纳斯凯利(Maria Guarnaschelli)说。她是个杰出的食谱编辑，是格林威治村Butter餐厅的大厨亚历克斯·瓜尔纳斯凯利(Alex Guarnaschelli)的母亲。“我们从没想过我们的女儿会成为大厨。”
Now, a generation of chefs and entrepreneurs who grew up in the kitchen are shaping American food.
如今，在厨房里长大的新一代大厨和企业家们在塑造美国的食物。
The sons of pioneering American chefs like Norman Van Aken, Bradley Ogden and Larry Forgione have grown into their own chef’s whites. Sara Jenkins, 48, the chef and owner of Porsena and Porchetta in the East Village, trained her palate from childhood by globe-trotting with her mother, the Mediterranean food expert Nancy Harmon Jenkins.
美国的一些先锋大厨——比如诺曼·范·阿肯(Norman Van Aken)、布兰得利·奥格登(Bradley Ogden)和拉里·福希奥内(Larry Forgione)，他们的儿子们已经成了大厨。48岁的莎拉·詹金斯(Sara Jenkins)是东村Porsena餐厅和Porchetta餐厅的大厨和老板。她从孩提时代就跟随母亲、地中海食物专家南希·哈蒙·詹金斯(Nancy Harmon Jenkins)周游世界，训练自己的味蕾。
Two of the most influential chefs in the Austin, Tex., area are Bryce Gilmore, of Barley Swine, and his father, Jack Gilmore, of Jack Allen’s Kitchen. Bryce, 30, grew up learning at Jack’s elbow — but today Bryce is coaching Jack, who quit a job as a corporate chef after 20 years to get back into the kitchen, in modern culinary arts like curing and cultivating relationships with farmers.
得克萨斯州奥斯丁地区最有影响力的其中两位大厨是Barley Swine餐厅的布莱斯·吉尔摩(Bryce Gilmore)和他的父亲、Jack Allen’s Kitchen餐厅的杰克·吉尔摩(Jack Gilmore)。30岁的布莱斯从小就在父亲身边学烹饪，但如今是布莱斯在指导杰克现代烹饪艺术，比如腌制以及与农夫建立关系。杰克在给别人的餐厅当了20年大厨之后辞职开设了自己的餐厅。
Second-generation entrepreneurs like Nicolas Jammet, whose parents, Rita and André Jammet, owned New York’s elegant La Caravelle, are using their food knowledge outside the kitchen. Nic, 28, discovered an appetite for sophisticated, sustainable fast food while still in college; the chain he founded in 2007 in Washington, D.C., Sweetgreen, just opened its 20th store in the trendy NoMad hotel in Manhattan.
二代从业者们，比如尼古拉斯·雅梅(Nicolas Jammet)，开始在厨房之外运用自己的食物知识。雅梅的父母里塔(Rita)和安德烈(André)是纽约高雅餐厅La Caravelle的老板。28岁的尼古拉斯上大学的时候就发现自己对精致的可持续快餐很有兴趣。他2007年在华盛顿特区创立的连锁餐厅Sweetgreen刚刚在曼哈顿时尚的NoMad酒店开了第20家分店。
And some chefs who grew up in less rarefied settings — like Eddie Huang, 31, whose Taiwanese parents ran steak and seafood restaurants around Orlando, Fla. — are using their own professional kitchens to revisit the true flavors of their childhoods.
一些在不那么考究的环境中长大的大厨正在用自己的专业厨房重现童年时代的纯正滋味，比如31岁的艾迪·黄(Eddie Huang)，他的台湾父母在佛罗里达州奥兰多市附近经营几家牛排和海鲜餐厅。
In all these ways, building on the work of food-world pioneers, the next generation is moving the culinary conversation forward.
新一代大厨们用所有这些方法，在食物界先驱们工作的基础上，把烹饪事业向前推进。
That is, when their mothers will let them into the kitchen.
前提是，他们的母亲们让他们进厨房。
Maria Guarnaschelli published authoritative cookbooks by writers like Julie Sahni and Barbara Tropp when most Americans neither knew nor cared about authentic cooking. But she didn’t teach Alex to cook, because she couldn’t tolerate messes or mistakes in the kitchen.
玛丽亚·瓜尔纳斯凯利出版过朱莉·萨尼(Julie Sahni)和芭芭拉·特罗普(Barbara Tropp)等作家编写的权威食谱，当时大部分美国人既不知道也不在乎真正的烹饪。但是她没教过亚历克斯烹饪，因为她受不了厨房里被弄得一团糟或者烹饪时出错。
“I became a chef in spite of her,” the daughter said, “but I am a perfectionist because of her, and I couldn’t be a chef without that.” (Last year, Alex, 44, worked up the courage to write her own cookbook, a resolutely lighthearted, messy and nonauthoritative book titled “Old-School Comfort Food.”)
“尽管有这样的母亲，我还是成了大厨，”亚历克斯说，“但是因为她我成了一个完美主义者，没有这一点我成不了大厨。”（去年，44岁的亚历克斯鼓起勇气写了自己的食谱，名叫《老式慰藉食物》[Old-School Comfort Food]，她决心让这本书轻松、散乱、不那么权威）。
When Dennis Lee, 33, and his brothers, Daniel, 32, and David, 30, started a business selling hot dogs from a stand in Golden Gate Park, their Korean-born mother was not enthusiastic. Even though the hot dogs were organic and garnished with kimchi and gochujang, cooking was the family business that she wanted her sons to escape.
33岁的丹尼斯·李、32岁的丹尼尔和30岁的戴维三兄弟从在金门公园的摊铺上卖热狗开始自己的生意，他们在韩国出生的妈妈对此不太支持。虽然他们的热狗是有机食品，而且还加入了韩国泡菜和辣酱增添滋味，但是她想让儿子们远离烹饪这个家庭生意。
“We were supposed to be doctors, not hot dog vendors,” said Dennis, who is now the chef at Namu Gaji in San Francisco, which is owned by all three brothers.
“妈妈想让我们做医生，而不是卖热狗的小贩，”丹尼斯说。他现在是旧金山Namu Gaji餐厅的大厨，这家餐厅归这三兄弟共有。
The whole family had worked long hours at Dah-Mee, the popular pan-Asian restaurant in Natick, Mass., where their mother commanded a regiment of Korean, Japanese and Thai chefs. She insisted that staples like miso and soy sauce be made from scratch. Dennis became the kitchen’s key translator among languages and cuisines. Namu Gaji’s izakaya-style small plates, like napa cabbage, radish and pluots dressed with tangy ponzu and crisp seaweed, reflect how the brothers ate; the organic farm they’ve started reflects how hard they worked.
他们一家人曾在马萨诸塞州纳蒂克市的热门亚洲餐厅Dah-Mee每天工作很长时间，他们的妈妈是这家餐厅厨师团队的主管，这里的厨师来自韩国、日本和泰国。她坚决要求像味增和酱油这样的主要原料必须从头做起。丹尼斯成了这家餐厅日常对话和菜谱的主要翻译。Namu Gaji餐厅的小盘子具有居酒屋的风格，这里的大白菜、水萝卜和杏李拌有刺鼻的日式柑橘酢和脆脆的海藻，这些都反映出这三兄弟的饮食方式。他们开始经营的有机农场反映出他们工作多么努力。
“I think that secretly or unconsciously, they were training me to stay in the food business,” Dennis said of his parents. “They instilled in me this crazy work ethic where I always have to be in the kitchen.”
“我想他们是在私下里或是在潜意识中训练我留在食品行业，”丹尼斯谈起父母时这样说，“他们慢慢灌输给我这种疯狂的职业道德，让我觉得我必须永远待在厨房里。”
Multigenerational restaurants are not a new idea. In Europe, toques are routinely passed down from father to son to grandson — and in a few recent cases, like Elena Arzak and Anne-Sophie Pic — from father to daughter. Restaurant dynasties in the United States include the Canlis family in Seattle, the Bastianichs in New York and the prolific Pappas family in the Southwest, who have birthed about 80 restaurants: Pappas Bros. Steakhouse, Pappadeaux Seafood Kitchen, Pappasito’s Cantina and more. But in those clans, business responsibilities are passed down, not culinary inspiration.
几代相传的餐馆不是什么新鲜事。在欧洲，厨师帽一般都是父亲传给儿子，儿子再传给孙子，最近也有一些父亲传给女儿的情况，比如埃琳娜·阿尔扎克(Elena Arzak)和安娜-苏菲·皮克(Anne-Sophie Pic)。美国几代经营餐厅的家族包括西雅图的Canlis家族，纽约的Bastianichs家族以及西南部的Pappas家族。Pappas家族生意兴隆，一共开了约80家餐厅：Pappas Bros牛排店、Pappadeaux海鲜厨房、Pappasito’s酒吧等。但是在这些家族中，代代相传的不是烹饪灵感，而是经营责任。
Chefs who grow up in working kitchens have both advantages and disadvantages.
在厨房操作间长大的大厨既有优势也有劣势。
“I’d call it a gifted curse, or a cursed gift,” said Marc Forgione, 34, whose father, Larry Forgione, was one of the first chefs to put regional American cooking on the fine-dining map, at his Manhattan restaurant An American Place, which opened in 1983.
“我把它称作一个被祝福的诅咒，或者一个被诅咒的祝福，”34岁的马克·福希奥内说。他父亲拉里·福希奥内是把美国地方烹饪方法引入高雅餐厅的先驱之一，1983年在曼哈顿开设了An American Place餐厅。
Marc grew up not in Manhattan but on Long Island; he worked in the kitchen part time for pocket money, but never planned to become a chef. “I didn’t know my father was a celebrity chef,” he said. “That didn’t even exist at the time. I knew I liked food — my mother is a great cook — and I knew my father’s job meant that he worked long hours and wasn’t home a lot. It didn’t seem like a great professional choice.”
马克不是在曼哈顿长大的，而是在长岛长大的。为了挣点零花钱，他曾在厨房里干过兼职，但是从未计划成为大厨。“我当时不知道父亲是个著名的大厨，”他说，“当时甚至不存在著名大厨这个概念。我当时只知道自己喜欢食物——我妈妈做饭很好吃——还知道父亲的工作时间很长，很少在家。做厨师在当时似乎不是个很好的职业选择。”
It was only later, he said (after college, driving around while “Appetite for Destruction,” the first Guns N’ Roses album, played on the car stereo) that he understood how cooking could be a calling. “The same way a musician uses notes to make a great song, a chef can take a raw piece of meat and make a great dish,” he said. He plunged in, working full time for prominent chefs in New York — often, he said, with more senior cooks watching and waiting for him to fail. “Kitchens are rough places,” he said. “Everyone has to prove themselves. Being the kid of a legend makes it harder, not easier.”
他说，直到后来（大学毕业之后，他开着车四处闲逛，车里放着枪炮与玫瑰[Guns N’ Roses]乐队的第一张专辑《毁灭的欲望》[Appetite for Destruction]）他才明白做厨师也可以是一种职业。“就像音乐家用音符创作美妙的歌曲一样，大厨用生肉做出美味的饭菜，”他说。他全身心投入其中，为纽约杰出的大厨们全职工作。他说，通常是更高级的厨师们在旁边看着，等着他失败。“厨房是个残酷的地方，”他说，“每个人都必须证明自己。做一个传奇人物的孩子只会让这更难，而不是更容易。”
In 2004, partly to escape the phrase “Larry Forgione’s son,” he went to live and work with the influential French chef Michel Guérard, at his restaurant in a remote corner of Gascony. “It’s in the middle of nowhere,” Marc said with characteristic bluntness. “I knew no one. I spoke not one word of French. I just put my head down and worked like everybody else, 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., for a year.” It was the skills he gained there, anonymously, he said, that provided the confidence to return to New York and open his own restaurant.
2004年，为了避开“拉里·福希奥内的儿子”这个称呼以及其他一些目的，他前往加斯科尼一个偏僻的角落，在有影响力的法国大厨米歇尔·盖拉尔(Michel Guérard)的餐厅工作和生活。“那里很偏僻，”马克以特有的坦率说，“我一个人也不认识，一句法语也不会说。我就是低下头，像别人那样工作，早7点到晚11点，做了一年。”他说，正是在那里默默无闻时获得的技巧，让他有信心返回纽约开设自己的餐厅。
At the other end of the privilege spectrum, the New York chef Ann Redding grew up outside Bangkok, in a family where cooking was the only professional option. Her grandmother raised six daughters alone, supporting them by growing and selling vegetables from a stall. An aunt was a cook at the royal palace.
一个相反的例子是纽约大厨安·雷丁(Ann Redding)。她在曼谷郊区长大，在她的家庭里，做厨师是唯一的职业选择。她祖母独自抚养六个女儿，靠种菜、卖菜养活她们。其中一个姨妈在皇宫里做厨师。
Ms. Redding’s aunts became skilled cooks at a young age, making snacks to sell by the roadside; her mother’s specialty was miang kham, a savory parcel of dried shrimp, chiles, peanuts, lime and coconut, wrapped in fragrant leaves from the betel nut tree. When she can get fresh betel leaves, Ms. Redding, 38, serves the dish at Uncle Boons, her restaurant in NoLIta, where she uses her experience in kitchens like Daniel and Per Se to evoke the Thai flavors she grew up with.
雷丁的姨妈们很小就在路边卖小吃，成了有经验的厨师。她妈妈最擅长做miang kham，就是把干虾、辣椒、花生、酸橙和椰肉裹在芳香的槟榔叶里，十分美味。38岁的雷丁在能买到新鲜槟榔叶的时候，就在她自己位于诺利塔(NoLIta)的餐厅Uncle Boons里供应这道菜。她用自己在Daniel餐厅和Per Se餐厅获得的经验来烹制自己从小熟悉的泰菜风味。
“It is a romantic memory, sitting with my grandmother while she crushed herbs with the mortar and pestle, talking about what soup my aunt had made for the royal family,” she said. “If you’re a kid and you’re around that obsession with food, it does stay with you.”
“那是浪漫的回忆，我和祖母坐在一起，她用研钵和研杵研磨草本植物，谈论我姨妈给皇家做的汤，”她说，“如果你从小就生活在这种对食物的迷恋中，那种情感会一直陪伴你。”
For Tom Schlesinger-Guidelli, growing up in the kitchen of the East Coast Grill in Cambridge, Mass., gave him the sense that cooking wasn’t just a job, but a way to change the world.
对汤姆·施莱辛格-圭代利(Tom Schlesinger-Guidelli)来说，在马萨诸塞州剑桥市East Coast Grill餐厅的厨房里长大让他感觉，做厨师不仅是个工作，还是改变世界的一种方法。
“When he started East Coast Grill, farm-to-table wasn’t a thing,” he said of Chris Schlesinger, his uncle, who opened the restaurant in 1986. Mr. Schlesinger embraced an earthy, lively, D.I.Y. approach to cooking that was revolutionary at the time.
“当他开设East Coast Grill餐厅时，还没有‘从农场到餐桌’这个概念，”他提到叔叔克里斯·施莱辛格(Chris Schlesinger)1986年开设这家餐厅时的情形时这样说。他叔叔支持质朴、有趣、自己动手的烹饪方式，这在当时是革命性的。
“My great-grandmother made her own soap and grew her own vegetables and cured her hams and used her own fatback, so he had a basic appreciation of that stuff built into him,” said Mr. Schlesinger-Guidelli, 30, who started in the kitchen at the tender age of 5. “And I learned from him that you don’t let corporations do for you what you can do for yourself.”
“我曾祖母自己做肥皂，自己种菜，自己腌火腿，自己养猪，所以他对那些事情有最基本的欣赏，”30岁的施莱辛格-圭代利说。他从5岁起就开始在厨房干活了，“我从他那里知道，你自己可以做的事情，不要让食品公司帮你做。”
Now, Mr. Schlesinger-Guidelli works at Island Creek Oyster Bar, a deceptively simple place in Boston that incorporates many of the big ideas about food that his uncle helped promote.
现在，施莱辛格-圭代利在波士顿的Island Creek Oyster Bar餐厅工作，这个餐厅看似简单，实际上融合了他叔叔帮助推广的很多重要的食物观念。
The menu is built around local ingredients like lobster, honey, cream, monkfish, clams and cucumbers, bought directly from the people who raise, catch or dig them; its owners, Skip Bennett and Shore Gregory, also own the sustainable Island Creek Oysters in nearby Duxbury, Mass., which supplies many top restaurants in the Northeast; and the company’s foundation promotes aquaculture as a form of safe global food production, financing projects like a shellfish hatchery in Zanzibar and tilapia farms in Haiti.
这家餐厅的菜单是根据当地食材设计的，比如龙虾、蜂蜜、奶油、安康鱼、蛤蜊和黄瓜，这些食材都是直接从种植、捕捞或挖掘它们的人那里买来的。这家餐厅的主人斯基普·班尼特(Skip Bennett)和肖尔·格雷戈里(Shore Gregory)还在马萨诸塞州达克斯伯里附近拥有可持续农场Island Creek Oysters，该农场为东北部的很多顶级餐厅提供食材。该公司的基金会鼓励把水产业发展成一种安全的全球食物产业，还资助桑给巴尔的壳类动物孵化项目和海地的一个罗非鱼养殖场。
Mr. Schlesinger-Guidelli didn’t plan on a career in food. But after he graduated from Kenyon College with a degree in political science, he found he had little interest in politics. Now, he says, it is both his upbringing in the kitchen and his education outside it that inform the work that he wants to do.
施莱辛格-圭代利当初没打算进入食品行业。但是他从凯尼恩学院获得政治学学位后，发现自己对政治学毫无兴趣。他说是从小在厨房长大的经历和在厨房之外接受的教育让他知道自己想做什么工作。
“Political science is about motivating larger swaths of people to care about issues,” he said, “like where their oysters come from.”
“政治学是动员更多的人关注一些问题，”他说，“比如他们吃的牡蛎是从哪里来的。”