The terra-cotta warriors who stand subterranean watch at the tomb of China’s first emperor have been called symbols of many things: military might, the longevity of Chinese culture and the organizational zeal and lust for power of the ruler who unified the country and had the statues buried with him. For Prune Nourry, a French artist whose work focuses on the subject of gender imbalances, the clay soldiers represent men, lots and lots of them.
伫立在地下、为中国第一个皇帝看守陵墓的兵马俑，在人们眼里代表着许多东西。比如强大的军事实力；中华文化中长生不老的观念；以及这位曾经一统中国，并用塑像给自己陪葬的统治者对组织机构的狂热和对权力的渴望。而对于以性别失衡为创作主题的法国艺术家蒲玉娜·诺赫伊(Prune Nourry)来说，这些用陶土制成的士兵代表着男人，很多很多男人。
The iconic army offered Ms. Nourry an ideal means to raise questions about the harmful consequences of the desire for male offspring, problems faced by several Asian countries including China and India. ‘‘The terra-cotta warriors made sense,’’ she said. ‘‘The fact that it’s thousands and thousands of men, it’s such a strong symbol when you’re talking about birth preference.’’
这支象征性的军队为诺赫伊提供了理想的载体，从而就对子嗣的渴望所产生的不良后果提出了她的问题，包括中国和印度在内的亚洲国家普遍面临着这样的难题。“兵马俑是合乎情理的，”她说，“成千上万的男人伫立在那里，说到生殖偏好，这就是一种非常强烈的象征了。”
Over the past year she has set about giving the terra-cotta warriors a sex change. The result is a new work called “Terracotta Daughters,” a series of 116 sculptures that recasts the famous soldiers as young women. The statues’ faces are modeled after eight girls Ms. Nourry met through Children of Madaifu, a charity in central China set up by a former Doctors Without Borders official to aid orphans and children left behind by migrant worker parents.
过去一年里，她开始给兵马俑带来性别上的改变。其成果是一个名为《女童俑》(Terracotta Daughters)的新作品。该作品由116件塑像构成，把举世闻名的兵马俑变成了年轻女人。塑像面部是以诺赫伊通过马大夫之家(Children of Madaifu)接触到的八个女孩为摹本创作的。马大夫之家是华中的一家慈善机构，由无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Borders)前工作人员创办，旨在帮助孤儿和被外出务工的父母留在家里的儿童。
Ms. Nourry brought the girls to Xi’an, where they visited the mausoleum of the emperor, Qin Shi Huangdi, with its excavated rows of terra-cotta warriors. Farmers uncovered the 2,200-year-old statues in 1974. More than 8,000 of the soldier statues were placed in pits surrounding the emperor’s tomb, only a quarter of which have been excavated.
诺赫伊把这些女孩带到西安，参观秦始皇陵和一排排出土的兵马俑。当地农民在1974年发现了这些已经有2200年历史的塑像。安放在秦始皇陵四周的塑像共有8000多件，目前出土的不足四分之一。
Today craftsmen in surrounding towns turn out replica soldiers for tourists. Ms. Nourry took the eight girls to one such factory and introduced them to the artisans who would sculpt their likenesses. The sale of the first eight statues will pay for three years of education for the girls through Children of Madaifu.Ms. Nourry is perhaps best known in the United States for her work “The Spermbar,” a critique of sperm banks that featured a food stand where visitors could pick the traits of their future child, which were then matched with ingredients that were mixed and served as a ‘‘genetic cocktail.’’
如今，周边城镇的工匠在制作兵马俑的仿制品卖给游客。诺赫伊带着八个女孩来到一家这样的工厂，把她们介绍给工匠，让他们照着她们的样子制作塑像。出售第一批共八件塑像的收入，将被用于支付女孩们三年的学费，由马大夫之家代转。在美国，诺赫伊最广为人知的作品大概是意在批判精子银行的《精子吧》(The Spermbar)。作品描绘了一个小吃摊，顾客可以在里边为他们未来的孩子挑选各种特征，随后，有人会为他们挑选出来的特征匹配相应的材料，而这些材料将被混合在一起，奉上一杯“基因鸡尾酒”。
“Terracotta Daughters” follows a similar effort in India, titled “Holy Daughters,” in which Ms. Nourry created statues that blended the likenesses of a girl and a sacred cow. She later had local artisans make their own version of her creation, which was paraded as part of a religious festival in Kolkata.
创作《女童俑》之前，诺赫伊在印度完成了一个类似的作品，名为《神圣的女儿》(Holy Daughters)，在那个作品中，她创作的雕像是一个女孩和一头圣牛的混合体。后来，她让当地工匠模仿她的作品，创作出他们自己版本的塑像。这些塑像曾在加尔各答的一个宗教节日上作游行展出。
The goal of all these works is to make people consider what happens when the traits of newborns are no longer left to nature, Ms. Nourry said. In Asia there is already a serious gender imbalance. In her 2011 book ‘‘Unnatural Selection,’’ Mara Hvistendahl noted the research of the French demographer Christophe Guilmoto, who said in 2005 that if the continent’s birth ratio were normal, it would have an additional 163 million women. Naturally about 105 boys are born for every 100 girls. From 2005 to 2010 that number reached 111 in India and 117 in China, according to a United Nations World Population Prospects study.
诺赫伊说，所有这些作品的目的都是让人开始思考，当新生儿的特征不再由自然决定时意味着什么？亚洲存在严重的性别不平衡。马语琴(Mara Hvistendahl)在2011年出版的《非自然选择》(Unnatural Selection)一书中提到了法国人口统计学家克里斯托夫·吉尔莫托( Christophe Guilmoto)的研究，后者曾在2005年指出，如果维持了自然的出生性别比，亚洲本应多出1.63亿女性。在自然状态下，每诞生105个男婴，就会诞生100个女婴。但根据联合国一份名为《世界人口展望》(World Population Prospects study)的研究报告，在从2005年到2010年，印度和中国的男女出生比例分别高达111:100和117:100。
‘‘Today through scans, through ultrasounds, science give us a tool to select gender and abort a fetus if it is a girl,’’ Ms. Nourry said. ‘‘This is a reality in Asia, especially in India and China, which together have one-third of the world’s population. Such an imbalance in turn has consequences like child trafficking, trafficking of women, forced marriage. This is a search of the origins and the consequences of this issue.’’
“现在有了扫描，有了超声波，科学给了我们进行性别选择的工具，如果怀的是女胎，可以做流产，”诺赫伊说，“这是亚洲的现实情况，在印度和中国尤为如此，而这两个国家的人口总和是世界总人口的三分之一。这种不平衡反过来又会造成某些后果，比如拐卖儿童、拐卖妇女和逼婚。这就是对该问题前因后果的探究。”
Tweaking the images of a god in India or national symbols in China might seem like a way for a foreign artist to provoke anger rather than understanding. Ms. Nourry said she encountered no opposition to her work in India. And in China the head craftsman overcame his initial misgivings about the project, she said.
一个外国艺术家对一个印度神祗和中国的民族文化符号进行扭曲，似乎更像是要挑起愤怒，而非让人有所领悟。诺赫伊说，她的作品在印度没有遭到抵制。而在中国，领头的工匠起初抱有疑虑，但他最终还是想通了。
‘‘In my projects, I don’t want to be provocative,’’ Ms. Nourry said. ‘‘For me, you touch people if you make something that makes sense to them. Provocation is something that you block out. Here progress is only possible if you have discussion.’’
“我并不是要在自己的作品里向谁挑衅，”诺赫伊说，“在我看来，只要你的作品对人们而言是有意义的，你就能打动他们。挑衅是你必须摒弃的东西。只有进行探讨，才能取得进展。