Every few weeks, Dr. Tony Wing Lai Mak, a pathologist at Princess Margaret Hospital in Hong Kong, receives blood and urine samples from yet another patient hospitalized after taking a traditional Chinese medical or health supplement.
每隔几周，香港玛嘉烈医院(Princess Margaret Hospital)的病理学家麦永礼医生都会接到因服用传统中药或保健品而入院的病人的血样和尿样。
His toxicology lab finds the same culprits over and over: adulterants hidden in the dose.
他的毒理学实验室发现，同一个致病原因一再出现：隐藏在这些药物中的掺假成分。
Although the Hong Kong Department of Health regularly issues warnings about the medicines, “we’re still seeing this all the time,” Dr. Mak said.
尽管香港卫生署经常发布对这些中药的警示信息，“我们还是总能见到它们，”麦永礼说。
“These are illegal products that are damaging to people’s health and can even kill. Yet somehow, they’re still here.”
“这些药是非法制品，对人体健康有害，甚至有可能致命。但是因为种种原因还在出售。”
The frequency and serious nature of the cases inspired Dr. Mak and his colleagues to compile a decade’s worth of observations, which they recently published in the British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology.
这些案例的频繁和严重性促使麦永礼和同事们把他们十年以来的观测结果汇编起来，于近期发表在《英国临床药学期刊》(British Journal of Clinical Pharamacology)上。
From 2005 to 2015, they reported, 404 people ranging in age from 1 month to 90 were treated at the hospital after taking tainted supplements.
他们报告说，从2005年至2015年，共有404人在服用了有问题的医药保健品后入院接受治疗，年龄最小的病人只有1个月，最大的90岁。
Their sample, they note, comprises only those patients who took proprietary products processed into pills or other finished doses — not the considerable number who consumed whole, unprocessed plant or animal materials.
他们指出，这个样本只包括服用了专卖成药的药片或其他成品制剂的病人，不包括众多使用未加工植物或动物原料的病人。
After testing 487 products handed over by sick patients, Dr. Mak and his colleagues discovered 1,234 hidden ingredients, including both approved and banned Western drugs, drug analogues and animal thyroid tissue.
检测病人提交的487种制品之后，麦永礼和同事们发现了1234种隐藏成分，其中包括各种经批准或被禁用的西药、药物类似物和动物甲状腺组织。
Sibutramine, an appetite suppressant taken off the market after it was linked to cardiovascular problems, was the most commonly identified adulterant, found in 155 products.
西布曲明是一种食欲抑制剂，因被发现与导致心血管问题相关后遭下市，它是目前最常见的掺假成分，在155种产品中被检出。
Health supplements containing undeclared ingredients are illegal in Hong Kong, Dr. Mak said, but residents may purchase them in unscrupulous local shops, on the internet, or while visiting mainland China or abroad.
麦永礼说，在香港，包含未申报成分的保健品是违法的，但市民可以在本地不法商店或互联网上购买，抑或在访问中国大陆或国外期间购买。
It is impossible to say how prevalent these contaminated supplements are in Hong Kong, Dr. Mak said. He only tests samples from patients whose adverse reactions are severe enough to require medical attention.
麦永礼说，这些有不法添加物的保健品在香港的泛滥程度是很难说的。他只测试了出现严重不良反应，并导致需要医治的患者所提供的样品。
Many more may not seek help, or may not experience any side effects at all. “In China, we have so many products around and we take them all the time,” Dr. Mak said. “I do not know the denominator here.”
更多的人可能不会寻求帮助，或者根本不会出现任何副作用。“在中国有太多种产品，我们一直在接收它们的样品，”麦永礼说。“我不知道基数是多大。”
Chinese medicinal remedies are gaining popularity worldwide thanks to a perception that they are “natural and safe,” Dr. Mak said. A study of 2,600 proprietary Chinese medicine products in Taiwan found that a quarter were contaminated with synthetic drugs.
中药在全球愈来愈受欢迎，因为它们被认为是“天然而安全的，”麦永礼说。然而台湾一项研究分析了2600种中成药产品，发现其中四分之一含有人工合成药物。
In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration has identified more than 800 adulterated dietary supplements on the market.
在美国，食品和药物管理局(Food and Drug Administration)已经验明市场上超过800种掺假的膳食补充剂。