BEIJING — President Trump may not be known for his diplomacy, but someone in his family appears to be picking up the slack.
北京——特朗普总统的外交技巧也许不知名，但他家里有一个人似乎正在弥补这一点。
That would be Arabella, his 5-year-old granddaughter. A video of her singing Happy New Year in Chinese has gone viral on social media in China. Arabella has been taking Chinese lessons.
这个人就是他五岁的外孙女阿拉贝拉(Arabella)。在中国，一段她用中文唱《新年好》的视频在社交媒体上疯传。阿拉贝拉一直在学中文。
Arabella’s mother, Ivanka Trump, posted the song on her Instagram account on Thursday. “Arabella singing a song she learned for #ChineseNewYear. Wishing everyone an amazing year to come during these days of celebration. 新年快乐,” Ms. Trump wrote on her account.
阿拉贝拉的母亲伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)周四在自己的Instagram账号上发布了她唱歌的视频。“阿拉贝拉唱了一首为#中国新年而学的歌。值此节庆之际，祝愿所有人都迎来精彩的一年。新年快乐（最后的“新年快乐”用的是中文——译注）。”伊万卡·特朗普在自己的账号上写道。
Arabella appeared in a black cardigan with ornate pockets and skinny black pants, and she played with a Chinese marionette as she sang.
阿拉贝拉身穿带装饰性口袋的黑色开襟毛衣和黑色紧身裤。她一边唱，一边玩手里的中国牵线木偶。
On Weibo, China’s version of Twitter, more than 60,000 people said they liked Arabella’s song. Some of them said they much preferred her to Mr. Trump.
在中国版的Twitter新浪微博上，六万多人为阿拉贝拉的歌点赞。其中一些人表示，和特朗普相比，他们更喜欢阿拉贝拉。
“The granddaughter is much more sensible,” said one. Another Weibo user noted: “Her Mandarin is perfect.” Some people were more critical: “So you want to get the Chinese off your back with just this song?”
“他外孙女懂事多了，”一名微博用户说。另一名用户指出：“普通话说得太好了。”一些人的批评意味更浓一些：“以为唱首歌就能把中国人搞定了？”
However, this was not Arabella’s first diplomatic coup this week. On Wednesday evening, she and her mother turned up at a New Year’s reception at the Chinese Embassy in Washington.
然而，这并不是阿拉贝拉本周在外交上的首次成功。周三晚上，她和母亲在华盛顿中国大使馆的新年招待会上现身。
A beaming Chinese ambassador, Cui Tiankai, escorted the pair around the party, as Arabella, decked out in red dress with a big bow at her neck, played with Chinese traditional arts that were on display.
笑容满面的中国大使崔天凯陪着她们母女俩在招待会上四处游览。阿拉贝拉玩了招待会上展出的中国传统艺术品。当时，她身穿红裙，领口处有一个大蝴蝶结。
China’s official broadcaster, CCTV, showed the mother-and-daughter team at the reception on its prime time news broadcast on Thursday.
中国官方的中央电视台在周四黄金时段的新闻节目中播出了阿拉贝拉母女俩在招待会上的画面。
Global Times almost gushed. “Her appearance at the Chinese Embassy, endowed with a certain political and diplomatic significance, could be invigorating to the China-U.S. relationship,” the paper said of Ms. Trump’s embassy visit, with Arabella in tow.
《环球时报》几乎是滔滔不绝。“她的对华善意姿态被广泛赋予政治及外交意义，这同样是中美关系新鲜的一幕，”该报在说到伊万卡·特朗普带着女儿阿拉贝拉现身中国大使馆一事时写道。