NEW YORK — Shortly after New Year’s Day, Man Hyung Lee, 77, was nursing a coffee in his usual seat in a narrow booth at a McDonald’s in Flushing, Queens, when two police officers stepped into the fluorescent light of the restaurant.
纽约——新年刚过，在皇后区法拉盛的一家麦当劳餐厅，77岁的李万永（Man Hyung Lee，音译）坐在一个窄小的隔间里自己惯常的座位上，正慢慢地啜着一杯咖啡。这时，两名警察走进了这家灯火通明的餐厅。
Mr. Lee said the officers had been called because he and his friends — a revolving group who shuffle into the McDonald’s on the corner of Parsons and Northern Boulevards on walkers, or with canes, in wheelchairs or with infirm steps, as early as 5 a.m. and often linger until well after dark — had, as they seem to do every day, long overstayed their welcome.
李万永说，警察之所以被找来，是因为他和朋友们——扶着助行架、拄着拐杖、坐着轮椅或是步履蹒跚地来到这家位于帕森大道和北方大道拐角的麦当劳餐厅，经常从早上五点待到天黑以后的一个流动大军——待得太久，而且由于他们似乎天天如此，在这里已经不受欢迎了。
“They ordered us out,” Mr. Lee said from his seat in the same McDonald’s booth a week after the incident, beneath a sign that said customers have 20 minutes to finish their food. (He had already been there two hours.) “So I left,” he said.
“他们命令我们离开，”事情过去一周后，李万永又坐到了这家餐厅的同一个位子上。他的座位上方写着一条提示：客人需在20分钟之内结束用餐。（他已经待了两个小时了。）“于是我就走了，”他说。
“Then I walked around the block and came right back again.”
“然后，我在街区附近转了转，又回来了。”
For the past several months, a number of elderly Korean patrons and this McDonald’s they frequent have been battling over the benches inside. The restaurant says the people who colonize the seats on a daily basis are quashing business, taking up tables for hours while splitting a small packet of French fries ($1.39); the group say they are customers and entitled to take their time. A lot of time.
不少老年韩国顾客和他们常去的这家麦当劳餐厅已经为座位的事情争执了好几个月。餐厅说，这些人每天霸占着座位，影响了生意。他们占据桌子长达几个小时，却只分吃一包小薯（1.39美元）；而这些人则说，自己是顾客，有权慢慢用餐。确实很慢。
“Do you think you can drink a large coffee within 20 minutes?” David Choi, 77, said. “No, it’s impossible.”
现年77岁的戴维·崔(David Choi)说，“你觉得能在20分钟之内喝完一大杯咖啡吗？不能，这是不可能的。”
And though they have treated the corner restaurant as their own personal meeting place for more than five years, they say, the situation has escalated in recent months. The police said there had been four 911 calls since November requesting the removal of the entrenched older patrons. Officers have stopped in as frequently as three times a day while on patrol, according to the patrons, who sidle away only to boomerang right back. Medium cups of coffee ($1.09 each) have been spilled; harsh words have been exchanged. And still — proud, defiant and stuck in their ways — they file in each morning, staging a de facto sit-in amid the McNuggets.
尽管五年多以来一直把街角的这家餐厅当做自己的私人会所，但他们表示，最近几个月，矛盾升级了。警方称，自去年11月以来，已经四次接到要求赶走这些老人的911报警电话。这些老人说，巡警每天会来三次，这时，他们就会悄然离开，过一会再转回来。中杯咖啡（每杯1.09美元）被打翻过，双方也曾恶语相向。然而，即便如此，他们仍然骄傲、顽强而执着地，每天早上鱼贯而入，在麦乐鸡飘香的地方，来一场“静坐示威”。
“Large group — males, females — refusing to get up and leave,” read the police summary of one 911 call placed on Jan. 3 at 2:30 p.m. “The group passed a lot of sit-down time. Refusing to let other customers sit.”
“一大群人，有男有女，坐在那里就是不走，”1月3日下午2点30分的911电话的警方记录中写道。“这群人干坐的时间过长。不让其他顾客坐下。”
Neither a Burger King nor another McDonald’s, both within a few blocks on Northern Boulevard, has the same allure.
在北方大道几个街区内的一家汉堡王(Burger King)和另外一家麦当劳都没有这样的吸引力。
Workers at the restaurant say they are exasperated.
餐厅工作人员说，他们恼怒不已。
“It’s a McDonald’s,” said Martha Anderson, the general manager, “not a senior center.” She said she called the police after the group refused to budge and other customers asked for refunds because there was nowhere to sit.
餐厅总经理玛莎·安德森(Martha Anderson)说，“这是麦当劳，不是老年中心。”她还说，这群人拒绝挪地方，没地方坐的客人要求退钱，她这才报了警。
After multiple requests for comment, a spokeswoman for McDonald’s said the company would address the issue, but as of Tuesday evening it had not done so.
在记者多次发出置评请求之后，麦当劳的女发言人表示，将会回应这个问题，但截至周二晚间，还是没有回音。
The police in the 109th Precinct, which serves the area, say that calls to resolve to disputes at businesses are routine, though the disruptions are more often caused by unruly teenagers than by septuagenarians.
这片地方属于109警区。负责该地的警方称，要求解决商户纠纷的报警电话很常见，不过扰乱治安的通常是不听话的年轻人，而不是年逾古稀的老人。
The Flushing McDonald’s looks like any other. Few among the crowd there on a recent Saturday said they even liked the food. “We prefer our own Korean food,” said Hoick Choi, 76, a pastor at New Power Presbyterian Church, who comes about once a week. Many come after filling up on a free lunch at a nearby senior center.
法拉盛的这家麦当劳看起来和其他家别无二致。不久前的一个周六，接受采访的这群人甚至说，他们几乎没人喜欢这里的食物。现年76岁的霍伊克·崔(Hoick Choi)是新力长老教会(New Power Presbyterian Church)的牧师，大约一周来一次。他说，“我们更喜欢我们韩国的美食。”许多人都会先到附近的老年中心饱餐一顿免费午饭，然后才来。
Some say it is convenience that draws them from the solitude of their nearby homes to spend the day sitting there in the Big Mac-scented air. Many are widowed, or like Jee Woong Lim, 81, who arrived in America two years ago from Seoul, say they are in need of company. They are almost without exception nattily dressed, in suits or dress slacks, brightly colored ties or sweaters, fedoras and well-shined shoes.
有人说，他们之所以从附近孤独的家中来到这里，在弥漫着巨无霸的空气中坐上一整天，是因为方便。许多人的老伴已经去世，或者，像两年前从首尔来到美国的81岁的林梓雄（Jee Woong Lim，音译）所说的那样，他们需要人陪。他们几乎毫无例外地衣着光鲜，穿着套装或西裤，系着彩色的领带或套着亮色的毛衣，戴软呢帽，皮鞋擦得锃亮。
Yet there seem to be no shortage of facilities that cater to the elderly in the neighborhood. Civic centers dot the blocks, featuring parlors for baduk, an Asian board game, and classes in subjects from calisthenics to English. Mr. Lee, who comes to the McDonald’s from Bayside, passes several senior centers en route. One is a Korean Community Service center in Flushing, which recently changed a room in the basement into a cafe with 25-cent coffee after its president, Kwang S. Kim, got word of the McDonald’s standoff.
然而，这个社区似乎并不缺少满足老年人需求的设施。几个街区都有多家市民中心，提供包括围棋沙龙，以及从健美操到英语的各色课程。围棋是起源于亚洲的棋类活动。李万永从贝塞来到这家麦当劳的路上就能经过好几家老年活动中心，其中一家是法拉盛的韩国社区服务中心。这个服务中心的总裁金光顺（Kwang S. Kim，音译）听说了这家麦当劳的纠纷之后，把一间地下室改装成了咖啡馆，出售25美分一杯的咖啡。
No one has come.
可是没人来。
“I think I have to go to McDonald’s and ask why they’re there,” Mr. Kim said.
金光顺说，“我想我得去麦当劳，问问他们为什么非得在那儿。”
Outside the McDonald’s on Saturday, Sang Yong Park, 76, and his friend, Il Ho Park, 76, tried to explain what drew them there. They come every single day to gossip, chat about politics back home and in their adopted land, hauling themselves up from the banquettes with their canes to step outside for short cigarillo breaks. And they could not say why they keep coming back — after a short walk around the block to blow off steam — every time the officers remove them. They said they had each been ousted three times so far.
周六，在麦当劳门外，76岁的朴相永（Sang Yong Park，音译）和与他同岁的朴日浩（Il Ho Park，音译）试图说明到底是什么吸引他们到这里。他们每天来聊天，谈论他们的祖国以及入籍国的政治，为了抽一会烟，还要拄着拐杖费力地走出去。每次有警察把他们撵走，他们还是会回来——在街区走走消了气之后——他们也说不出这是为什么。他们说，他们每人都被撵过三次。
The two men, however, knew what they would do next time. Sang Yong Park said he would not budge, but his friend said he would dutifully obey any police order, just as he always has. “I will just listen to them,” he said. “But I will come back inside after they leave.”
然而，这两个人知道自己下次会怎么做。朴相永说自己不会让步，但他的朋友说，自己会顺从警察的指令，他也一直都是这么做的。他说，“我会听他们的，但是他们走后，我再回来。”