There is a Chinese idiom that might be used to describe the place of idioms in Chinese literary tradition: jianding buyi (坚定不移), meaning “firm and unchanging.” The use of such expressions, especially the classical set phrases known as chengyu (成语), has long been seen as a mark of erudition in China. Most chengyu consist of only four characters, but they don’t follow the grammar and syntax of modern Chinese, and as many frustrated Mandarin students can tell you, they are often indecipherable without some knowledge of their origins, often in ancient Chinese literature that preceded the birth of Christ.
有一个习语也许可以用来形容习语在中国人书面传统中的地位，那就是“坚定不移”，意思是“稳定坚强，毫不动摇”。长期以来，这类表达方式的运用在中国一直被视为博学的标志，特别是对经典固定词组的运用，后者被称为成语。大多数成语仅包含四个字，但却不遵从现代汉语的语法和词法。许多灰心丧气的普通话学生会告诉你，如果对出处没有了解的话，你往往弄不明白成语的涵义，而成语的出处往往是在基督降生之前的远古中国文献当中。
Some of the most popular Chinese idioms in use today, though, are of a more modern provenance, having been forged in what is currently the hottest space for linguistic innovation in China — the Internet. These sayings retain the four-character format of the classic idioms but are distinguished by their ironic, contemporary and sometimes political themes. Popular among Chinese youth, the new idioms may not be considered highbrow, but they offer a window into the humor, culture and concerns of China’s millennial generation.
然而，今天用得最多的一些成语却有着更为现代的出处，源自中国目前最热门的语言创新空间——互联网。这些习语保持着经典成语的四字格式，同时又独树一帜，因为它们包含讽刺，反映着当代的情况，有时还带有政治意味。这些在中国年轻人之中广为流行的新成语也许称不上品味高雅，但却提供了一个窗口，从中可以窥视中国千禧一代的幽默、文化和关注点。
Among the many new Internet idioms now trending, xi da pu ben (喜大普奔) is a favorite, conveying exaggerated enthusiasm and excitement, with a dose of political irony. The phrase is an amalgamation of four expressions commonly used — perhaps overused — in Communist Party language, often to describe public satisfaction with the party’s policies:
* xi wen le jian (喜闻乐见), meaning “a delight to see and hear,”* da kuai ren xin (大快人心), meaning “to the satisfaction of everyone,”* pu tian tong qing (普天同庆), meaning “universal rejoicing,” and* ben zou xiang gao (奔走相告), meaning “running around and telling everyone.”None of these phrases would seem out of place on a Mao-era propaganda poster. Take the first character of each, string them together in a Chinese-style acronym, and the enthusiasm expressed is magnified to a farcical degree. The result is a hyperbolic idiom that might be translated as “news so exhilarating that everyone is celebrating and spreading it around the world.”
时下风行的众多互联网新成语中，喜大普奔是受到热捧的一个，它表达了夸张的激情和兴奋之情，还带有一点政治讽刺。这个成语是共产党用语中普遍使用——也许是过度使用的四种表达的混合物，这些表达常常用来形容公众对共产党政策的满意心情：
*“喜闻乐见”的意思是“喜欢听、乐意看”，*“大快人心”的意思是“所有人都满意”，*“普天同庆”的意思是“天下的人都在庆祝”，*“奔走相告”的意思则是“人们奔跑着相互转告”。这四种表达都适合毛泽东时代的宣传海报。取出这些习语的第一个字，以中文缩写词的方式串在一起，其中蕴含的火热情绪就被放大到了滑稽的地步。由此而来的结果是一个夸张的成语，意思也许可以翻译成“消息令人极度振奋，以致所有人都在庆祝，都在满世界地传播它。”
Now, even the smallest cause for celebration is being touted on the Internet as xi da pu ben. The announcement that train tickets were going to be available for purchase through the e-commerce site Taobao, for example, was immediately hailed as xi da pu ben. So was news that a history museum in Xi’an was offering free admission for two days. The phrase has even crept into traditional media, with the Southern Weekend newspaper publishing an article earlier this month about visa-free travel between China and Phuket, Thailand, under the headline, “Visas Not Required for Ordinary Passports: ‘Xi Da Pu Ben.’ ”
现在，即使是最微弱的庆祝理由，在网上都被夸大成了“喜大普奔”。比方说，当局公布了可以通过电商网站淘宝购买火车票的消息，该消息立即被誉为“喜大普奔”。西安一家历史博物馆提供两天免费入场的消息也得到了同等待遇。这个成语甚至混入了传统媒体的地盘，这个月早些时候，《南方周末》刊登了一篇关于中国和泰国普吉互免旅游签证的文章，标题就是《普通护照免签“喜大普奔”》。
Another new expression resonating online is ren jian bu chai (人艰不拆), which is essentially equivalent to the American idiom “to cut someone some slack.” The phrase reflects the pessimism and dissatisfaction with life felt by many young Chinese today, and is derived from the lyrics of the Mandarin pop ballad “Fairy Tale,” released by the Taiwanese singer Yoga Lin in 2009. The original 18-character line in the song — “Some lies are better not exposed, as life is already so hard” — was boiled into four characters to resemble a chengyu, and the condensed version has taken on a new life on the web.
另一个在网上广为流传的新说法是“人艰不拆”，从本质上来说，它相当于美国习语“放人一马”。这个短语反映了如今中国许多年轻人对生活的悲观和不满，出自用普通话演唱的流行情歌《说谎》。这首歌是台湾歌手林宥嘉2009年发行的。为了像成语，一句原本有18个字的歌词“人生已经如此的艰难，有些事情就不要拆穿”被压缩成了四个字，压缩后的版本在网上获得了新的生命。
The new idiom can be deployed in jest, as when a microblogger used it in response to a study reporting that the thicker a person’s belly, the more prone he or she may be to dementia: “Oh, ren jian bu chai!” (“Oh, cut me some slack!”)
这个新习语可以用来开玩笑。比如，有研究称一个人的肚子越大，他或她患痴呆的风险就越大，一名微博博主对此的回复是：“啊，人艰不拆！”（“啊，放过我吧！”）
But it can also be used in sympathy. After a young man in Beijing was sentenced in August to 10 years in prison for trying to rob a bank with a watermelon knife, reportedly so he could make a down payment on a marital home, one newspaper published a commentary titled, “ ‘Ren Jian Bu Chai’: How the Middle Class Went From White Collar to Loser.” (There is deep frustration with soaring housing prices among many young Chinese, especially bachelors under pressure to buy an apartment to improve their prospects for marriage.)
但它也可以用来表示同情。北京一名年轻男子试图用西瓜刀抢银行，据称是为了筹款支付婚房首付。8月，该男子因此被判10年有期徒刑，一家报纸随即刊发了一篇题为《“人艰不拆”：中产阶层为何从白领变屌丝》的评论文章。（中国的许多年轻人，尤其是需要通过买房来改善自己婚姻前景的单身汉，都对不断飙升的房价深感绝望。）
Usage of such Internet idioms has generally been confined to the virtual realm of online youth, but there are signs that these imaginative expressions are beginning to enjoy some popularity offline as well.
类似的网络习语通常只由年轻网友在虚拟空间使用，但有迹象表明，在网络以外的环境里，这些创造性表达也开始变得流行起来。