SHANGHAI — The Chinese Super League season kicks off Friday, and ticket scalpers working Shanghai S.I.P.G. matches can’t wait.
上海——中国足球协会超级联赛于周五开赛，手握上海上港俱乐部比赛票的票贩子们已经等不及了。
“This should be the best season for business yet,” said one of the many scalpers operating under the indifferent eye of security at the club’s Asian Champions League match against Australia’s Western Sydney Wanderers on Tuesday, one fist full of tickets and the other stuffed with renminbi. “More people are coming every year.”
许多票贩子在保安无动于衷的眼光之下进行着交易，兜售该俱乐部周二在亚洲冠军联赛中对阵澳大利亚西悉尼流浪者队的比赛门票，“这应该是到目前为止生意最好的一个赛季，”其中一个人说，他的一只手里攥满了票，另一只手里攥着人民币。“每年都有更多的人。”
For a team that did not exist until a dozen years ago, the ability to attract more than 28,000 fans on a cold Tuesday evening in a city that offers plenty of entertainment alternatives was encouraging — for the team, for Shanghai and for Chinese soccer in general.
在这个提供大量娱乐选择的城市里，一个十多年前还不存在的球队能在一个寒冷的周二晚上吸引超过2.8万名球迷赶来，这令人感到鼓舞——对于球队、对于上海，乃至对于中国足球来说都是如此。
“I walk around now and the restaurant staff and owners want to ask you about the club and about the games,” said Mads Davidsen, a Dane who joined S.I.P.G.’s coaching staff in 2012. “That never used to happen. People are getting interested.”
“我现在不管走到哪儿，连餐厅的工作人员和老板都想问你关于俱乐部和比赛的事，”2012年加入上港俱乐部教练组的丹麦人麦斯·大卫森(Mads Davidsen)说，“这是过去从来没有过的事。人们越来越感兴趣。”
Davidsen was sitting in the lobby of the Langham Hotel in the hip Xintiandi district.
大卫森在朗廷酒店的大堂接受采访，这家酒店坐落在时尚的新天地地区。
If a soccer culture can take root here, in China’s cosmopolitan and cool commercial center, hometown of the former N.B.A. star Yao Ming, then it can anywhere in a country that has historically underachieved in the sport.
在中国，足球运动一直未能得到充分发展，然而，如果一种足球文化可以在这样一个中国的国际大都会和酷炫的商业中心、前NBA球星姚明的家乡扎根，那么它也可以扎根在这个国家的任何地方。
But the sport’s growth should not be a surprise.
但这项运动的发展不应该令人惊讶。
One result is that a steady flow of foreign players and coaches, lured by multimillion-dollar contracts, has poured into the Super League in recent years. In Shanghai, locals are reacting to an on-field improvement that has made the club one of the title favorites this season thanks, at least in part, to a significant investment in talent by the team’s owner, Shanghai International Port Group.
其中一个结果是外国球员和教练的持续流入，近年来，受到千万美元级别合同的诱惑，他们已经开始涌入中超联赛。在上海，当地人对球场上的改进做出了反应。相关改进令俱乐部成为本赛季的夺标热门之一，这至少在一定程度上归功于球队所有者上海国际港务集团对人才的重大投资。
In June, S.I.P.G. paid about $60 million to add the Brazilian striker Hulk from the Russian club Zenit St. Petersburg. In January, the barrel-chested Hulk was joined by his far more silky compatriot Oscar, who cost a similar amount when he was lured from the English powerhouse Chelsea.
去年6月，上海上港俱乐部支付约6000万美元，将巴西前锋胡尔克从俄罗斯的圣彼得堡泽尼特俱乐部买来。今年1月，身形健硕的他迎来了身材相对苗条的巴西同胞奥斯卡，他被类似的价格从英超强队切尔西引诱而来。
They will be led by the former Chelsea coach André Villas-Boas, who replaced Sven Goran Eriksson at S.I.P.G. in November and has pledged to deliver either the Chinese Super League title or an Asian Champions League crown.
率领他们的是前切尔西队教练安德烈·维拉斯-博阿斯(André Villas-Boas)，他取代斯文·戈兰·埃里克森(Sven Goran Eriksson)担任上海上港的主教练，并承诺带来中超联赛冠军或亚冠冠军。
“I’ve promised the president that at the end of the season he would sleep with one trophy,” Villas-Boas told reporters in mid-February. “I hope that me and the players can give this special night to him at the end of the season.”
“我已经答应主席，赛季结束时，他可以拥着一个奖杯入睡，”维拉斯-博阿斯在2月中旬告诉记者。“我希望我和球员能在赛季结束时为他带来一个特别的夜晚。”
His club’s city rival, Shanghai Shenhua, could also challenge for silverware. The Blues finished fourth in 2016, a place below S.I.P.G., and bolstered their roster by bringing in the Argentine Carlos Tevez in January, reportedly making him the highest-paid player in the world at around $800,000 a week.
他的俱乐部的同城对手上海申花也可以挑战奖杯。这支蓝军在2016年排名第四，仅次于位居第三的上海上港，在1月份引入了阿根廷的卡洛斯·特维斯(Carlos Tevez)来增强阵容，据说这使得特维斯成为世界上最高薪的球员，周薪约为80万美元。
To have success, however, both teams will have to stop Guangzhou Evergrande from winning a seventh successive Super League title. Evergrande, a conglomerate that started out in property development, took control of the club in 2010 and became the first to invest heavily in foreign talent when it made the Argentine Darío Conca the third-highest-paid player in the world in July 2011.
然而，为了取得成功，两支球队将必须阻止广州恒大队连续第七年获得中超联赛冠军。恒大是一家从地产开发起步的大型集团公司，于2010年控股俱乐部，并在2011年7月以世界第三高薪引入阿根廷球员达里奥·孔卡(Darío Conca)，成为第一个在外援方面投入巨资的中超球队。
Domestic success was followed by triumphs in the Asian Champions League under the World Cup-winning coaches Marcello Lippi (in 2013) and Luiz Felipe Scolari (2015). No other Chinese team has had similar success in the tournament.
在国内取得成功之后，在世界杯冠军教练马尔切洛·里皮( Marcello Lippi, 2013)和路易斯·菲利佩·斯科拉里(Luiz Felipe Scolari，2015)率领下，该俱乐部两次获得亚冠冠军。没有其他中国球队在这一赛事中取得类似成功。
The club, which averages nearly 45,000 fans for home matches and is half-owned by Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, is not about to let its title go easily.
平均4.5万名球迷会在其主场观看该俱乐部的比赛，这支球队如今有一半由中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴拥有，它不会让冠军头衔轻易旁落。
“What is our target for the season? The championship, every year all the way through to 2020,” said Xu Jiayin, the chairman of Evergrande Group. “This year, our target is to win four titles: the Asian Champions League, the Chinese Super League, Chinese F.A. Cup and Chinese Super Cup.”
“我们这赛季的目标是什么？夺冠，每一年，直到2020年，”恒大集团董事长许家印说。“今年，我们的目标是四冠王：亚冠联赛，中超联赛，足协杯和超级杯。”
The Chinese Super Cup was secured on Feb. 24, with a victory over last season’s league runner-up, Jiangsu Suning. Based in Nanjing, Jiangsu was bolstered by signing the Brazilian stars Alex Teixeira and Ramires, for a combined total of about $80 million in 2016, and is expected to challenge again.
2月24日，恒大俱乐部取得了中国超级杯的胜利，战胜了上赛季的联赛亚军江苏苏宁队。苏宁队位于南京，于2016年以合计约8000万美元的价格签下了巴西球星阿莱士·特谢拉(Alex Teixeira)和拉米雷斯(Ramires)，它有望再次挑战恒大。
Tianjin Quanjian has spent heavily on the former Brazilian striker Alexandre Pato and the Belgian international midfielder Axel Witsel, while Hebei C.F.F.C. finished seventh in 2016 and, under the former Real Madrid and Manchester City coach Manuel Pellegrini, has spent more than any team in the transfer window that closed this week.
天津权建队斥重金签下前巴西国家队前锋亚历山大·帕托(Alexandre Pato)和比利时国际级中场球员阿克塞尔·维特塞尔(Axel Witsel)；而2016赛季排名第七的河北华夏幸福俱乐部在前皇马和曼城队教练曼努埃尔·佩莱格里尼(Manuel Pellegrini)率领下，在于本周关闭的转会窗口期间花出了超过任何一支球队的资金。
Most of the $105 million that Hebei invested went to Chinese players, who have become increasingly expensive as clubs are — under a rules change announced in January — restricted to fielding only three foreign players in any one game from a total quota of five.
河北投资的1.05亿美元中，大部分投向了中国球员，他们已经变得越来越昂贵，根据1月宣布的规则变化，一场比赛中的上场外籍球员限额变成了只有三名，外籍注册球员的限额为五名。
The teams with the best domestic talent, then, have the best long-term future, with Guangzhou Evergrande recently saying it wants a Chinese-only team by 2020. But in the short term, it is the famous foreign stars who make the headlines.
因此，拥有最好的国内人才的球队，才能拥有最好的长远未来，广州恒大最近表示，它希望到2020年能打造一支全华班球队。但在短期内，成为新闻的还是著名的外国球星。
That was clear on Tuesday when Hulk and Oscar starred as S.I.P.G. thrashed Western Sydney, 5-1. “We are now at a completely different level,” Davidsen said.
这在星期二尤为明显，胡尔克和奥斯卡代表上海上港上阵，以5-1击败了西悉尼队。“我们现在处于完全不同的水平，”大卫森说。
The main responsibilities for stars like Hulk and Oscar in China have not changed, Davidsen added. “They must improve the team on the pitch, lift the level of the current Chinese players and they must inspire youngsters to kick a ball,” he said.
大卫森补充说，胡尔克和奥斯卡等球星在中国的主要职责并没有改变。“他们必须在球场上提高球队水平，提升当前中国球员的水平，他们必须鼓舞小孩开始踢球，”他说。
There also might be a fourth: to excite the fans. Ahead of the new season, that is certainly the case in Shanghai.
可能也有第四种作用：那就是激励球迷。在新的赛季之前，在上海肯定是这样的。