On the first anniversary of its landing, halfway through its primary mission to Mars, NASA’s Curiosity rover still has a long way to go.
在美国国家航天航空局(NASA)的“好奇号”探测车登陆火星一周年之际，其主要探测任务已经进程过半，但前面仍有很长的路要走。
To be exact, 4.4 miles. That is the distance to the foothills of Mount Sharp, an 18,000-foot mountain whose rocks could provide clues to a time on Mars when life could have thrived.
确切地说，是4.4英里（约7.1公里）长。这是到夏普山(Mount Sharp)山麓的距离。夏普山高1.8万英尺（约5.5千米），其岩石可能会提供线索，让我们了解火星曾经在何时适宜生命勃发。
Because Curiosity is driving at a careful pace — up to 100 yards a day — the journey will take eight or nine months.
由于好奇号前进的步伐小心翼翼——每天行驶的距离最高可达100码（约91.5米）——这段行程需要8到9个月的时间才能完成。
For now, science is secondary as Curiosity crawls across a barren, largely uninteresting landscape. “Pretty much pure driving, pedal to the metal,” said John P. Grotzinger, the mission’s project scientist.
就目前而言，科学研究是次要的，因为“好奇号”行驶的地界不仅贫瘠，而且大部分都很无趣。“差不多就是单纯的行驶，全速前进。”该任务的项目科学家约翰·P·格罗青格(John P. Grotzinger)说。
An interactive feature offers a chronology of where Curiosity has been and what it has done so far; new images and information will be added as the rover progresses.
在一个互动网页上，你可以看到，“好奇号”去过哪里，到目前为止都做过些什么；新的图像和信息将被作为好奇号的进展添加到这里。
According to NASA, Curiosity has already traveled more than a mile, taken more than 36,700 images and fired 75,000 laser shots to analyze rocks and soil.
美国国家航空航天局表示，“好奇号”已经行驶了超过1英里，拍摄了逾3.67万张照片，发射了逾7.5万束激光来检测分析岩石和土壤。
The first day — or sol, the term for a Martian day, which is about 40 minutes longer than a day on Earth — began in the early morning of Aug. 6, 2012. (At mission control at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, it was late on Aug. 5.) The spacecraft carrying Curiosity pierced the top of the Martian atmosphere at more than 13,000 miles per hour.
第一天（火星日[sol]比地球上的一天长40分钟左右）开始于2012年8月6日的凌晨。（在位于帕萨迪纳的NASA喷气推进实验室地面指挥中心，当地时间是8月5日晚）。飞船携带着“好奇号”，以每小时逾1.3万英里的速度，插入火星大气层顶部。
In precisely choreographed maneuvers so risky that NASA called them “seven minutes of terror,” Curiosity was dropped to an undamaged standstill on the surface.
这套精确编排的动作非常危险，以至于NASA称之为“恐怖的七分钟”，最后“好奇号”降落到了火星表面上一块完好的地方。
The rover, roughly the size of a car, ended up right where it had been aimed — within Gale Crater, a 96-mile-wide scar from an asteroid impact at least 3.5 billion years ago. In that time layers of sediment filled much of the crater, which were then somehow carved away, leaving Mount Sharp at the center.
“好奇号”的大小跟一辆汽车差不多，它准确地落到了预定的目的地——盖尔陨石坑(Gale Crater)里，这是火星上一处宽96英里的疤痕，由小行星在至少3.5亿年前撞击形成。在之后的时间里，多层沉积物填充了陨石坑内的大量空间，然后又以某种方式剥离，留下的就是陨石坑中间的夏普山。
Observations from orbit pointed to the presence of clay minerals at the base of the mountain, named in honor of Robert P. Sharp, a prominent geologist and Mars expert. Because clays form in water that has a neutral pH, that made Gale Crater a promising place to look for signs that Mars could have once been hospitable for life.
这座山被命名为夏普，以纪念著名的地质学家和火星专家罗伯特·P·夏普(Robert P. Sharp)。在轨道上进行的观察显示，在夏普山的底部，有黏土矿物存在。由于粘土形成需要pH值为中性的水，所以，要寻找火星可能一度适宜生命的迹象，盖尔陨石坑就成为了一个大有希望的地方。
Before it headed toward Mount Sharp, Dr. Grotzinger’s team decided to send Curiosity on a detour to investigate terrain that looked to be an intriguing confluence of three different rock types. Along the way, Curiosity spotted what looked like an ancient streambed. At the site, in the first rock it drilled on Feb. 8 (Sol 182), it struck the jackpot — clays.
在“好奇号”驶向夏普山之前，格罗青格博士的研究团队决定让它绕一条弯路，去调查某处看上去是由三种不同类型岩石组成的有趣地形。“好奇号”在途中发现了一个看似古老河床的地方。在这里，它于2月8日(Sol 182)撞上了大运，在钻下的第一块岩石中发现粘土。
This rock in this part of Mars formed in watery conditions that were surprisingly Earthlike. “Unquestionably, Mars was a habitable planet in its ancient past,” Dr. Grotzinger said. Curiosity, however, does not have instruments that can directly search for life, past or present.
位于火星这个部分的这块岩石，是在水分情况跟地球出奇相似的条件下形成的。格罗青格博士说：“毫无疑问，在很早以前，火星曾经是一个宜居星球。”然而，“好奇号”上没有可以直接搜索生命的工具，无论是过去的生命还是现在的。
Although the primary mission is scheduled for only two years, Curiosity could be exploring Mars far longer. “It looks great,” said Jennifer H. Trosper, the deputy project manager. “I think over all the rover has worked better than expected.”
虽然“好奇号”的主要任务只做了两年的规划，但它对火星的探索可以远远长于这个时限。“它看起来很棒。”项目副经理珍妮弗·特罗斯珀(Jennifer H. Trosper)说，“我认为，总体来说，‘好奇号’的工作开展得比预期要好。”
But lest anyone think that everything on the $2.5 billion mission would always work perfectly, a computer memory glitch in late February knocked Curiosity out of action for a couple of weeks. “This is a very sober reminder that the rover ultimately has a finite lifetime,” Dr. Grotzinger said.
但是不要以为，在这个耗资25亿美元的任务中，所有的东西都会永远十全十美。今年二月下旬，电脑内存故障就致使“好奇号”好几个星期不能动弹。“这件事非常严肃地提醒我们，探测车的寿命终究是有限的。”格罗青格博士说。