In the Bush family, Texas jockeys with Maine as the favored homeland, a theme that seems to have continued with the George W. Bush Presidential Center, on the campus of Southern Methodist University, in Dallas. It opens May 1 and is furnished throughout by Thos. Moser, the Auburn, Me., producer of handmade furniture.
在布什(Bush)家族，热爱家乡缅因州的德克萨斯骑手这个主题，似乎也延续到了位于达拉斯州的南卫理公会大学(Southern Methodist University)校园中的乔治·W·布什总统中心(George W. Bush Presidential Center)里。这座中心于5月1日开放，馆内所有家具都由缅因州奥本(Auburn)的手工家具制造商Thos. Moser提供。 
In the Bush Institute’s periodical library, custom reading tables by Thos. Moser are paired with the company’s classic Harpswell chairs. Elsewhere, Moser provided a custom proctor’s desk, conference tables, research desks and credenzas, all made from cherry sourced from the Allegheny Forest in Pennsylvania.
在这处布什机构的期刊阅览室里，配备了Thos. Moser定制的桌子和该公司经典的Harpswell椅。其他房间里也有Thos. Moser提供的会议桌、办公桌、书柜，以及一个定制的办事台，所有这些家具，都是用宾夕法尼亚州阿勒格尼森林(the Allegheny Forest)的樱桃木制作的。 
Thos. Moser has worked previously with the Bush administration, creating ceremonial seating for a 2008 papal visit to the White House. Aaron Moser, one of four sons of the name-supplying founder, runs the contract side of the business and handled the earlier project as well as the presidential center. He spoke with a reporter about what it means to design “presidential” furniture.
Thos. Moser之前就曾经为布什政府效力，于2008年教皇访问白宫时，提供过举行仪式用的坐具。公司的创始人有四个儿子，亚伦·莫泽(Aaron Moser)是其中之一，负责执行合同方面的事务，也参与了早期的项目及总统中心的家具提供业务。在接受记者采访时，他谈到了什么是设计“有总统味儿”的家具。
Q. How did the commission come about?
问：你们是怎么得到这个订单的呢？
A. I had an opportunity to meet with the Bushes socially a couple of years ago. When I was speaking with Mrs. Bush, she mentioned her fondness of the Harry Ransom Center in Austin, where we furnished the archive library.
答：几年前，我有幸在社交场合结识了布什夫妇。在跟布什夫人交谈的时候，她提到她喜欢奥斯汀(Austin)的哈里·兰塞姆中心(Harry Ransom Center)，那里档案室的家具就是我们提供的。
I think the other motivation is the Maine connection, with her in-laws living in Kennebunkport. It certainly made the introduction much easier.
我觉得另一方面的原因是，我们同来自缅因州，她的姻亲住在肯纳邦克波特(Kennebunkport)，所以介绍业务就变得容易多了。 
Q. Does personal politics play a role in whether or not the company accepts a commission like this? 
问：个人政见对于公司对这样的订单接受与否有影响吗？
A. It has nothing to do with it. We did work for Ronald Reagan’s library, some seating. We built a lectern desk for President Clinton, for a speech. Doing a presidential library is more important than doing the Bush library. If there’s an opportunity to do the Obama library, you can bet I’m going to be standing in line if we have the honor.
答：没有关系。我们为罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的图书馆提供过一些坐具。克林顿总统(President Clinton)有一次演讲用的讲台，也是我们制作的。比做这个“布什图书馆项目”更重要的是，做一个“总统图书馆项目”。如果以后有机会做奥巴马图书馆的项目，我若有幸，肯定也会去排队争取的。 
Q. Was President Bush involved in the interior design?
问：布什总统参与过这座图书馆的室内设计吗？
A. Not really. There were a lot of influencers. Ken Blasingame, a designer out of Fort Worth, had a very strong voice. Also the interior architects, Gensler, out of Dallas. Everyone was passionate about achieving a certain level of excellence. Other than Mrs. Bush, there wasn’t one person that trumped anyone else in the process.
答：其实没有。但很多有影响力的人物参与了这个图书馆的设计。来自沃思堡(Fort Worth)的设计师肯·布拉辛格姆(Ken Blasingame)有很大的发言权，来自达拉斯的室内设计公司Gensler也是如此。每个人都满怀热情，努力提供某种程度上的卓越。除了布什夫人之外，没有任何人在这个过程中凌驾于其他人之上。
Q. Did the former first lady present you with design challenges?
问：这位前第一夫人是否给你们的设计带来了挑战？
A. Mrs. Bush wanted all of the veneer in the building to be Texas pecan. The challenge for us was to give them the look they wanted, but we couldn’t make the furniture out of pecan wood. It’s very difficult to source in the market. We had to come up with a suitable alternative. We experimented with different ashes and oaks, but, as it turns out, the cherry, in the way we finished it, worked well with the wall panels.
答：布什夫人希望馆内所有的贴面都采用德州山核桃木材质，我们面临的挑战就是提供他们想要的外观。但我们不能用山核桃木做家具，因为这种木材的货源在市场上很难找到，必须拿出一个恰当的替代方案。为此，我们尝试了不同的白蜡木和橡木，后来发现樱桃木经过处理后的样子，跟墙板配搭起来非常协调。
Q. What were your overall marching orders from the president’s team? 
问：总统团队对这个项目的总体要求是什么呢？
A. The conversation revolved around the phrase “It has to look presidential.” I hadn’t previously had anyone say that to me, and I wasn’t sure what that meant exactly, but I can tell you, when you walk in that space, it feels presidential.
答：他们的主要说法是“看起来必须要有总统味儿”。以前没有人跟我说过这样的话，我当时也不知道它的确切意思是什么。但我可以告诉你，当你走进那个图书馆时，你会觉得它很有总统味儿。
Q. What did you conclude it means? 
问：你最后觉得那到底是什么意思呢？
A. I think it means durable, and not just durable in terms of construction. You can build a sturdy chair, but the design has to transcend generations and cultures. We focused on not cluttering the design and masses of these forms with appliqué. It was meant to be understated within the scope of the building.
答：我认为它的意思是经久不衰，而且不仅是指做工方面。你可以制作一张坚固耐用的椅子，但它的款式设计也必须超越世代的更替和文化变迁才行。我们的一个侧重点是，避免使用镶嵌工艺，令设计和整体外观显得杂乱无章。在这栋建筑内，“有总统味儿”就是要做到低调、内敛。
Q. So the Harpswell chair is as everlasting as the Bill of Rights? 
问：那么，Harpswell椅会像《人权法案》(Bill of Rights)一样经久流传吗？
A. I would not recommend the Harpswell chair for the Atlantic City Public Library. In the Bush library, the chairs are being used in the periodical reading room, which is more like a den than a library, and will be supervised and well cared for.
答：我不会建议大西洋城公共图书馆(Atlantic City Public Library)配备Harpswell椅。在布什图书馆里，摆放这种椅子的期刊阅览室更像是一个私密的房间而非图书室。有人会照管那里，并且妥善地维护它。
Most of our designs are informed by an image or something in nature. The Harpswell chair is modeled after a French cafe chair. My father was in France and took a picture of a little chair. We’ve had the Harpswell chair in our line for 20 years. Good design is relevant and has futurity. 
我们的大多数设计都是通过一种形象或某种气质上的东西呈现的。Harpswell椅脱胎于一种法国咖啡椅。我的父亲曾在法国拍过一张小椅子的照片。我们制作Harpswell椅已有20年历史了。好的设计既有相关性，也有前瞻性。