The news was leaked in what seemed an aside: On Saturday, the author Polly Samson, who is married to David Gilmour, Pink Floyd’s guitarist, went onto Twitter and tweeted, to her 17,100 followers: Btw Pink Floyd album out in October is called “The Endless River”. Based on 1994 sessions is Rick Wright’s swansong and very beautiful.
这条消息好像是通过一个题外话才泄露出来的：星期六，“平克·弗洛伊德”(Pink Floyd)的吉他手大卫·吉尔默(David Gilmour)的妻子，作家波丽·萨姆森(Polly Samson)在推特上发文如下，她在推特上有1.71万粉丝：顺便说一句，“平克·弗洛伊德”10月发行的专辑名叫《无尽的河流》(The Endless River)。是在1994年录音的基础上制作的，是里克·赖特(Rick Wright)的天鹅之歌，非常美。
— Polly Samson (@PollySamson) 5 Jul 14Then Durga McBroom-Hudson, a vocalist who has toured with Pink Floyd as a backup singer, posted on her Facebook page a photo showing her recording as part of a vocal trio. She identified it as a shot from the sessions for the new Pink Floyd album (and included a link to Ms. Samson’s tweet). And from there, the Floydosphere went wild: Pink Floyd has not released an album of new material, after all, since “The Division Bell” in 1994. The news was confirmed on Monday in an announcement on the band’s website.
后来曾经做为和声歌手与“平克·弗洛伊德”一起巡演的德加·麦克布鲁姆-哈德森(Durga McBroom-Hudson)在Facebook上发了一张照片，上面是她和另外两个歌手一起录音的情形。她说这是自己在录“平克·弗洛伊德”的新专辑时拍的，还附上了萨姆森女士那条推文的链接。看到这个，弗洛伊德的粉丝圈就开始发疯了：毕竟，自从1994年的《表决之钟》(The Division Bell)之后，“平克·弗洛伊德”就再也没有发过新歌专辑。星期一，乐队官方网站发表声明确认了这个消息。
But the story also raised several questions. Would Roger Waters, who left the band after “The Final Cut” in 1983 – but reconciled with the group briefly for the Live 8 charity show in 2005 – appear on it? Apparently not, the generally reliable Brain Damage fan site reported, basing its information on a report in The Sun. And what did Ms. Samson mean by “Rick Wright’s swansong?” Mr. Wright, the group’s keyboardist, was in and out of the band over the years, and died in 2008.
但是这个消息还存在许多问题，罗杰·沃特斯(Roger Waters)自1983年推出《最终版本》(Final Cut)之后就离开乐队——不过2005年曾在Live 8慈善演唱会上和乐队短暂地和解——他会出现在专辑里吗？“脑损伤”(Brain Damage)是一个“平克·弗洛伊德”的歌迷网站，通常都很可靠，他们基于《太阳报》(The Sun)上的一篇报道，认为显然不会。而萨姆森女士所说的“里克·赖特(Rick Wright)的天鹅之歌”又是什么意思呢？赖特是乐队的键盘手，多年来在乐队进进出出，于2008年去世。
Ms. McBroom-Hudson offered further insight on her Facebook page: the recording is based on material that was started and left unfinished during the “Division Bell” sessions, and was originally a side project, an ambient music collection, to be called “The Big Spliff.”  Nick Mason, the group’s drummer, mentioned the project in his 2004 memoir, “Inside Out: A Personal History of Pink Floyd.” Hence Wright’s involvement.
对于这个问题，麦克布鲁姆-哈德森在Facebook上提供了更多内幕：新专辑是以《表决的钟声》录制期间未完成的录音为基础的，本来是那张专辑的一个副产品，是一张氛围音乐合辑，叫做《大号大麻烟》(The Big Spliff)。乐队鼓手尼克·梅森(Nick Mason)在2004年的回忆录《从里到外：“平克·弗洛伊德”的一段个人史》(Inside Out: A Personal History of Pink Floyd)中也提到过这个项目。所以赖特也参加进来了。
“But David and Nick have gone in and done a lot more since then,” Ms. McBroom-Hudson added on her page. “It was originally to be a completely instrumental recording, but I came in last December and sang on a few tracks. David then expanded on my backing vocals and has done a lead on at least one of them. That’s the song you see being worked on in the photo.”
“但是从那以后，大卫和尼克投入进去，又多做了很多东西，”麦克布鲁姆-哈德森在她的页面上写道。“它起先是一张器乐专辑，但我去年12月参加进去，在几首曲子里唱了歌。大卫进一步补充了我的和音，至少在其中一首歌里担任了主唱。照片里就是我们在录那首歌时的情形。”