How old is the Grand Canyon? Old enough to be gazed on by dinosaurs, which died out 65 million years ago, or closer to six million years old, formed about when the earliest human ancestors began walking upright?
大峡谷(Grand Canyon)的历史有多悠久？6500万年前灭绝的恐龙，曾否凝视大峡谷？抑或大峡谷的历史更接近于600万年，大致是在人类最早的祖先开始直立行走时？
A bitter controversy among geologists over this question edged into the open on Thursday, when a report published in the journal Science offered new support for the old-canyon hypothesis, which is not the prevailing one. In the report, Rebecca M. Flowers of the University of Colorado and Kenneth A. Farley of the California Institute of Technology used an improved dating technique based on the radioactive decay of uranium and thorium atoms into helium atoms in a mineral known as apatite. They said this yielded a thermal record of these rocks under the canyon floor, hot at great depths but cooler the closer they were to the surface.
周四，《科学》(Science)杂志发表一份报告，为目前并非主流的古老峡谷假说提供了最新依据，这使地质学家们围绕这个问题的激烈争执转向公开。在这份报告中，科罗拉多大学(University of Colorado)的丽贝卡·M·弗劳尔斯(Rebecca M. Flowers)和加州理工学院(California Institute of Technology)的肯尼思·A·法利(Kenneth A. Farley)使用了一种经过改进的测定年代的方法，其测量对象是磷灰石这种矿物中铀和钍原子经过放射性衰变后变成氦原子。他们表示，这会导致谷底下面的岩石留下热记录，因为深处的岩石很烫，但距地表较近的岩石温度较低。 
An analysis of the data, the geologists said, revealed where surface erosion had gouged out canyons and how much time had passed since there was significant natural excavation in the Grand Canyon region. They concluded in the report that the western segment of the canyon was carved to within a few hundred yards of modern depths by about 70 million years ago.
这两名地质学家称，分析这些数据可以揭示出，地表侵蚀在什么地方“挖出”了峡谷，以及大峡谷地区出现显著的“自然挖掘”距今已有多长时间。他们在报告中得出结论称，大峡谷西段在大约7000万年前就基本形成了，那时的深度距离现代的深度在几百码以内。
The more ancient origin would put much of the canyon in place in the last epoch of the dinosaurs. Publicity for the journal report duly noted that one of nature’s wonders, dinosaurs, might well have stood and gawked at another wonder, one of today’s most majestic tourist attractions.
这一更久远的起源，会将大峡谷大部分地区的形成推进到最后一个恐龙时代。对这篇杂志报告的报道指出，大自然的奇迹之一恐龙，很可能曾经驻足凝视另一奇观，而后者已成为当今最宏伟的旅游景点之一。
This was only one of the immediate objections to the findings raised by geologists favoring the young-canyon school of thought. They said that the research results had been hyped. One critic, Karl E. Karlstrom of the University of New Mexico, noted that the early-canyon model had been proposed before and was “now in what I think will be a short-lived revival.”
这仅仅是年轻峡谷学派的地质学家对研究发现迅速做出的反对之一。他们表示，这些研究结果被炒作了。批评者之一、新墨西哥大学(University of New Mexico)的卡尔·E·卡尔斯特伦(Karl E. Karlstrom)指出，大峡谷历史久远的假说以前也有人提出过，这种假说“现在正经历我所认为的短暂抬头”。
If the interpretation of the findings proves to be correct, it contradicts the prevailing hypothesis that the entire canyon was formed as recently as five million to six million years ago, advocated by many of the notable authorities on Grand Canyon geology. These dates were drawn from an examination of pebbles and other sediments from upstream reaches of the Colorado River system that washed up at the western exit of the canyon.
如果事实证明对研究发现的解读是正确的，那将与当前的主流假说（整个峡谷是在500万到600万年前形成的）相悖，而后者得到许多研究大峡谷地质的知名权威的支持。这些数据是通过研究科罗拉多河(Colorado River)上游流域的鹅卵石和其他一些沉积物后得出的，这些鹅卵石和沉积物被水冲到了大峡谷西部的出口。
Dr. Flowers said that when she started this research seven years ago, she had not expected to find the canyon’s presumed age to be so ancient. But the first set of experiments with the radioactive helium technique in 2008 was followed up with a new round of tests and more sophisticated levels of analysis.
弗劳尔斯博士表示，她在7年前开始这项研究时，并没有想到会发现大峡谷的假定年龄有那么悠久。但在2008年用放射性氦进行了首批实验后，又进行了新一轮测试和技术含量更高的分析。
In their paper, Dr. Flowers and Dr. Farley wrote that their findings implied a dichotomy in the late eastern and early western canyon origins. This history, they said, “supports a model in which much of Grand Canyon incision was accomplished by an ancient Cretaceous river that flowed eastward from western highlands,” not from northeast to west, as today’s Colorado River does. This was followed by a “reversal of the river’s course as topography rose in the east and collapsed in the west,” in consequence of the rising Rocky Mountains.
弗劳尔斯和法利在论文中写道，他们的发现意味着，从起源上看，大峡谷可分为两段：形成年代较晚的东段和形成年代较早的西段。他们称，“根据（历史）支持的模型，大峡谷的切口大部分是由于一条古代白垩纪河流从西部高地流向东部时冲刷形成的，”而不是像今天的科罗拉多河那样，从东北向西流。后来，落基山脉形成后，“因为地势变得东高西低，所以这条河的流向发生逆转。”
Dr. Flowers said in an interview that the findings supported the ancient-origin hypothesis advanced in recent years by Brian P. Wernicke, a Caltech geologist, who had proposed such a chain of events. It is still not clear when the eastern and western canyons merged into the canyon as it is seen today.
弗劳尔斯在接受采访时称，研究结果支持近年由加州理工学院(Caltech)地质学家布莱恩·P·韦尼克(Brian P. Wernicke)提出的远古起源假说。韦尼克提出了上述事件链。目前尚不清楚峡谷东段和西段在何时融为一体，形成我们今天看到的大峡谷。
She also said she foresaw “a fair amount of controversy” over the research results. That turned out to be an understatement, even before the official publication date.
她还说，她预见到这些研究结果会引发“相当多的争议”。但即使在官方发表日期之前，这话就显得低估了批评力度。
Dr. Karlstrom of the University of New Mexico is a leader among geologists who have devoted much of their careers to Grand Canyon studies. When reporters called this week, he was prepared with four pages of criticism of the new research. He pointed out that at a meeting two years ago of the most active Grand Canyon researchers, “a near consensus view was expressed” in support of the young-canyon hypothesis.
在投身研究大峡谷的地质学家中，新墨西哥大学的卡尔斯特伦博士是一名领军人物。本周，当记者们打电话过去时，他已经准备好了批评这项新研究的4页材料。他指出，最活跃的大峡谷研究者在两年开会时，“表达了近乎共识的观点”，支持大峡谷形成较晚的假说。
As a rule of thumb, he defined the Grand Canyon as “the canyon you see from the rim today.” How fragments of paleocanyons and paleorivers contributed to the Grand Canyon’s origin is not established, he said.
作为一个基本前提，他将大峡谷定义为“今天你从边缘看到的峡谷。”他表示，远古峡谷和远古河流在大峡谷的起源中起到了什么作用，目前不能确定。
Dr. Karlstrom was not entirely negative in his assessment of the research. He praised the thermochronology method the researchers used, saying it “offers one of the few ways we may be able to reconstruct past landscapes in rocks that have long since been eroded away.” The Flowers-Farley team, he added, “is pushing welcome new advances” in this dating technology.
卡尔斯特伦对这项研究的看法并不完全是负面的。他称赞了研究人员利用热年代学的方法，称其“提供了为数不多的技术手段之一，让我们通过岩石重构早已被侵蚀的古代地貌。”他还称，弗劳尔斯-法利团队正在这一年代测定技术领域“推进可喜的新进展”。
“Less welcome to me,” he continued, “is their attempt to push the interpretation of their new data to their limits without consideration of the whole range of other geologic data sets.”
“对我来说不那么可喜的是，”他接着说，“他们试图牵强地解读自己的新数据，而不考虑其他完整的地质数据集。”