LONDON — It can withstand a spin-cycle in a washing machine filled with extremely hot water. It can be eaten by mischievous toddlers or pet hamsters without causing lethal indigestion. It can fend off wily criminals with micro lettering visible only under a microscope.
伦敦——它在水温极高的洗衣机里旋转也完好无损。它被淘气的学步儿童或宠物仓鼠吃下去也不会导致致命的消化不良。它身上有只在显微镜下才能看到的印字，足以防范狡猾的罪犯。
Printed for more than a hundred years on cotton paper, a new 5-pound note, introduced on Tuesday by the British central bank, now comes in polymer, a thin, flexible plastic film that makes it stronger, safer and more resistant to counterfeiters.
周二，英国中央银行推出了一种新款5英镑钞票。这种面额的钞票在之前的100多年里都是用棉纸印制的，现在它用一种软塑料薄膜聚合物印制，更结实、更安全、更防伪。
Britain is the latest country to choose polymer over paper for those hardy attributes, following Canada, Australia, Mexico, Singapore and New Zealand.
继加拿大、澳大利亚、墨西哥、新加坡和新西兰之后，考虑到这种材质的强韧属性，英国成为最新一个选用聚合物而不是纸制作钞票的国家。
Given its durability, polymer is considered more environmentally friendly than traditional paper bills. The fiver, British slang for a £5 note, is expected to last about two and a half times as long as the current generation of paper notes.
考虑到它的耐用性，聚合物钞票被认为比传统纸币对环境更无害。据估计，新型5英镑钞票的使用寿命是目前这一代纸币的2.5倍左右。
The see-through windows on the £5 notes are difficult to replicate, enhancing the counterfeit protection. The bills are also cleaner since polymer doesn’t get soggy and is more resistant to dirt than paper.
5英镑上的透明窗很难复制，提高了其防伪性能。这种钞票也更干净，因为聚合物不会被浸湿，而且比纸更不容易弄脏。
“The use of polymer means it can better withstand being repeatedly folded into wallets or scrunched up inside pockets,” said Mark Carney, the governor of the Bank of England.
“使用聚合物意味着这种钞票在钱包里反复折叠或在口袋里揉成一团都不成问题，”英格兰银行(Bank of England)行长马克·卡尼(Mark Carney)说。
The polymer notes, featuring the former Prime Minister Winston Churchill, went through rigorous testing.
这些聚合物钞票印的是前首相温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)的头像。它们经过了严格检验。
The Bank of England stuffed them in jean pockets in washing machines with water at 40 degrees Celsius, or 104 degrees Fahrenheit, and put them in large spinning vessels filled with grime and dirt.
英格兰银行把这种钞票塞进牛仔裤的口袋，放入40摄氏度水温的洗衣机里，还把它们放入装满污物的大型旋转容器中。
To help fend off counterfeiters, the central bank added special new features. A silver foil patch at the bottom of Big Ben on the note has a hologram of the word “Five” that changes to the word “Pounds.”
为了帮助防伪，中央银行加了一些新的特殊功能。钞票上大本钟(Big Ben)底部的一小块银箔上印有单词“Five”（五）的全息图，它能变成单词“Pounds”（英镑）。
The person leading the effort is Victoria Cleland, 46, the bank’s chief cashier, whose signature is on every new £5 note. (She said she signed her name carefully and neatly.) Ms. Cleland, who studied philosophy, politics and economics at Oxford before getting her M.B.A., said the polymer notes, post spin cycle, had proved far sturdier than their paper counterparts.
领导这个项目的是46岁的维多利亚·克莱兰(Victoria Cleland)。她是该银行的首席出纳官，她的签名出现在每一张新5元钞票上（她说，她非常认真而整洁地签上了自己的名字）。克莱兰在牛津大学(Oxford)学过哲学、政治学和经济学，后来又获得了工商管理硕士学位。她说，这种聚合物钞票在经过旋转洗涤之后，被证明比纸质钞票要结实得多。
“The paper notes get quite soggy and disintegrate, whereas the polymer notes retain their shape and don’t get crumpled,” she said in a telephone interview. Last year, 21,745 notes of all denominations were returned as mutilated, the central bank said.
“纸质钞票被浸湿了，还出现破碎，而聚合物钞票仍保持原状，没有起皱，”她在电话采访中说。中央银行称，去年各种面额共有21745张钞票作为残币被回收。
She said the notes had also been carefully tested in the laboratory by health and safety experts to assure that pets or children accidentally chewing on them would not become ill. “A number of notes get returned each year and are chewed by pets, including parrots,” she said, before quickly adding: “We wouldn’t encourage people to swallow the notes.”
她说，这些钞票也在实验室里经过了健康和安全专家的仔细检测，确保宠物或儿童意外咬食之后不会生病。“每年有很多钞票因遭宠物噬咬而被回收，包括鹦鹉，”她说。她很快补充说：“我们不鼓励人们吞咽这些钞票。”
Bank notes are important symbols of national identity. And the decision three years ago to replace the social reformer Elizabeth Fry with Churchill spurred some loud protests, since the queen would be left as the only female figure on British currency.
钱币是国家身份的重要标志。三年前，银行决定用丘吉尔代替社会改革家伊丽莎白·弗莱(Elizabeth Fry)，引发了一些强烈抗议，因为这样的话，女王将是英国货币上唯一的女性人物。
After the dissent, the bank decided to introduce a polymer £10-note featuring the author Jane Austen, who will replace the scientist Charles Darwin when that note is introduced next summer. The choice was a sign of “sense and sensibility,” the former chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne wrote on Twitter at the time.
那次争议之后，银行决定推出10英镑聚合物钞票，用作家简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)取代科学家查尔斯·达尔文(Charles Darwin)。这种钞票将于明年夏天推出。当时，前英国财政大臣乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)在Twitter上写道，这一选择是“理智与情感”的标志。
On Tuesday, Mr. Carney extolled Churchill as “one of the greatest statesmen of all time.” When Mr. Carney’s predecessor, Sir Mervyn King, first announced plans for the new Churchill note three years ago, he mused that the new £5 notes could be eventually referred to as “Winstons” and said it was appropriate that Churchill should be on “what is probably our most popular note.” Churchill’s words — “I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat” — appear on the bill.
周二，卡尼称赞丘吉尔为“有史以来最伟大的政治家之一”。三年前，卡尼的前任默文·金爵士(Mervyn King)首次宣布新的丘吉尔钞票计划时，他曾慎重地表态，这种新的5元钞票可能最终被称为“温斯顿”。他还表示，丘吉尔应该印在“可能是我们最常用的钞票”上面。丘吉尔的名言——“我能尽心奉献的别无他物，只有热血、辛劳、眼泪和汗水”——出现在钞票上。
The Bank of England has featured leading British luminaries on its notes for more than four decades; William Shakespeare, Charles Dickens, Adam Smith, and Florence Nightingale have all graced bills. The public makes nominations, and previous suggestions have included Princess Diana, David Bowie and David Beckham. (The famed soccer player was automatically excluded because a crucial criteria is being dead, the bank explained.)
英格兰银行在钞票上印上英国主要杰出人物的头像，已有超过40年的历史。威廉·莎士比亚(William Shakespeare)、查尔斯·狄更斯(Charles Dickens)、亚当·斯密(Adam Smith)和弗洛伦斯·南丁格尔(Florence Nightingale)都曾给钞票添彩。公众可以进行提名，之前的建议包括戴安娜王妃(Princess Diana)、大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)和大卫·贝克汉姆（David Beckham，英国央行解释说，这位著名足球运动员被自动排除，因为有一项重要标准：必须是过世的人物）。