LONDON — Oscar Pistorius, the South African track star convicted of killing his girlfriend, returned to court on Wednesday for a third day of sentencing hearings that were overshadowed by disclosures about payments he made to the victim’s family.
伦敦——因杀死女友被判有罪的南非田径明星奥斯卡·皮斯托瑞斯(Oscar Pistorius)周三再上法庭，法庭的宣判听证已经进入第三天，他向受害者家属付钱一事的披露一度成为听证的中心问题。
News of the transactions emerged Tuesday when a probation officer testifying for the defense, Annette Vergeer, disclosed that Mr. Pistorius had been making monthly payments to the family of his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, after he shot her to death in the early hours of Feb. 14, 2013.
有关交易的报道出现在周二，为辩护方作证的监护官安妮特·维尔吉尔(Annette Vergeer)在法庭上透露，自从2013年2月14日凌晨用枪打死女友瑞瓦·史汀坎普(Reeva Steenkamp)之后，皮斯托瑞斯一直每月给女友的家人寄钱。
But the prosecutor Gerrie Nel said that Ms. Steenkamp’s mother and father, June and Barry, had rejected a lump-sum payment equivalent to $33,000 from the sale of an automobile as “blood money” and had promised to repay the monthly stipend.
但是，检察官格里·内尔(Gerrie Nel)说，史汀坎普的母亲琼(June)和父亲巴里(Barry)已拒绝了一笔相当于3.3万美元(约合20万元人民币)的一次性付款，认为这笔卖车得来的钱是“赎罪金”，他们也已承诺偿还所有的月津贴。
Dup de Bruyn, a lawyer acting on behalf of the Steenkamps, told reporters on Wednesday that the payments of roughly $550 per month for their “rent and expenses” began when the family found itself facing “financial difficulties” in March 2013, and that they continued until last month.
史汀坎普夫妇的代理律师达浦·德布勒因(Dup de Bruyn)周三对记者说，史汀坎普的家人在2013年3月曾面临“财务困难”，这之后开始收到用于“租金和日常开支”的相当于每月550美元的汇款，一直持续到上个月。
Mr. Pistorius had requested that the payments remain confidential, the lawyer said. It had always been the Steenkamps’ intention to offset the monthly payments against a civil claim for damages, Mr. de Bruyn said, but the family decided to repay the money after choosing not to pursue a civil claim.
这位律师说，皮斯托瑞斯曾要求对汇款保密。德布勒因说，史汀坎普夫妇的意图一直是把这些每月付款作为将来民事诉讼赔款的一部分，但史汀坎普家人在选择不追究民事索赔后，决定退还这笔钱。
At the same time, he said, the family’s lawyers approached Mr. Pistorius about a lump sum without the Steenkamps’ knowledge. The family was no longer in the same financial position, Mr. de Bruyn said, because he had “made some deals” for them. He did not elaborate.
他说，与此同时，史汀坎普家的代理律师在家人不知晓的情况下，与皮斯托瑞斯接触讨论过一次性付款的问题。德布勒因说，史汀坎普家人已不再有财务问题，因为他帮他们“做了几笔交易”。他没有详细说明。
Barry Roux, Mr. Pistorius’s lead defense lawyer, said in court on Wednesday that the money from the sale of the automobile had been placed in a trust in case the Steenkamps wanted the funds at a later date.
皮斯托瑞斯的首席辩护律师巴里·鲁(Barry Roux)周三在法庭表示，出售汽车的钱已存入一个信托帐户，以备史汀坎普家人以后想要这笔钱。
Mr. Pistorius had paid the monthly amounts to the family unconditionally and did not seek repayment, Mr. Roux said. But the family “decided, for various reasons, that they did not want any payment from Mr. Pistorius,” he said, reading from a statement initially put out by the Steenkamp family.
鲁说，皮斯托瑞斯每月支付给史汀坎普家人的钱是无条件的，也不要求偿还。但是，史汀坎普家人“出于种种原因决定，他们不想要皮斯托瑞斯的任何钱”，他引用来自史汀坎普家人早先一份声明的话说。
Ms. Vergeer returned to the witness stand on Wednesday, where she was the subject of close and sometimes aggressive questioning from Mr. Nel about her knowledge of South African prison conditions after she said Tuesday that incarceration would “break” Mr. Pistorius. She had recommended that Mr. Pistorius be sentenced to house arrest.
维尔吉尔周三再次出现在证人席上，她受到内尔有时咄咄逼人的提问，内尔追问了她对南非监狱条件的了解。她在周二曾表示，监禁会“摧毁”皮斯托瑞斯。她建议判处皮斯托瑞斯软禁。
After a trial that started in March, Mr. Pistorius was found guilty last month of culpable homicide — equivalent to manslaughter — but was acquitted of more serious murder charges. In his defense, he said he shot Ms. Steenkamp by mistake in the belief that an intruder had entered his home.
皮斯托瑞斯案的审理于三月份开庭，他在上个月被判犯有应受惩罚的杀人罪，相当于过失杀人罪，但就更严重的谋杀罪指控，他被判无罪。在给自己辩护时，他说他开枪误杀了史汀坎普，是因为他以为入侵者进到自己家中。