LONDON — Ask for his opinion, and David Howe eagerly tells you how he hopes Britain will leave the European Union.
伦敦——如果问他的意见，戴维·豪(David Howe)会迫不及待地告诉你他有多么希望英国退出欧盟。
“We need to take control of our borders,” he says.
“我们需要掌控自己的边境，”他说。
But these sentiments are, at the moment, as valuable to him as his personal views on Her Majesty’s latest hat. He is more keen to know how the rest of the British electorate is inclined so he can win some money.
但此刻，对他来说这些观点和他对女王最近戴的那顶帽子的看法一样重要。他更渴望知道其他英国选民的意见，这样他才能赢些钱。
A single screen attracts Howe’s interest: one showing the odds on the so-called Brexit. They have in recent days tilted heavily toward Britain sticking with the European Union. A bet of 9 pounds to remain (about $13.24) fetches a profit of only 2 pounds (less than $3). By late afternoon, the odds slide even more, showing an 80 percent chance that voters will maintain Britain’s place in the EU.
一个屏幕吸引着他的注意：那上面显示着所谓的“英国退出欧盟”（简称Brexit）的赔率。最近几天，屏幕上的数字向英国留在欧盟严重倾斜。出九英镑（约合人民币87.5元）赌英国留下只能赚两英镑。到了傍晚，赔率倾斜幅度更大，显示选民支持英国留在欧盟的可能性达80%。
Far from a curiosity, the gambling markets stand as a rare source of something approximating clarity in the face of Brexit-borne confusion, assuming they turn out to be right.
面对英国退出欧盟引发的困惑，博彩市场已经远不是消遣玩物，而是成了一个罕见的接近民众真实想法的信息来源，前提是最终证明它们是对的。
Political polls have generally shown a divided electorate. Until last week, when a member of Parliament who had advocated remaining in Europe was murdered, a vote to leave seemed marginally likely. Investors absorbed polls and sent markets on a wild plunge, selling the British pound and London stocks in anticipation of a Brexit. Then those markets jumped when the polls edged back toward remain.
政治调查普遍显示选民态度分化。直到上周一名主张留在欧盟的下议院议员遇害前，民众投票决定退出欧盟似乎还有些许可能。受调查结果的影响，投资者认为英国会退出欧盟，进而抛售英镑和伦敦的股票，导致市场全面下跌。然后，当调查结果慢慢向留在欧盟回归时，市场全线上涨。
All the while, gamblers held firm, signaling faith that economic concerns would ultimately triumph over the politics of identity. While the margin tightened for a while, the people voting with money concluded that the electorate would stick with Europe.
参与博彩的人始终立场坚定，这显示出他们坚信经济问题最终会战胜身份政治。当差距暂时收紧时，赌钱的人推断选民会选择留在欧盟。
“The betting is just massive,” says Mike Smithson, founder and editor of PoliticalBetting.com, a website that is something like a Bloomberg terminal for people who wager on political events. “It’s the biggest political betting event of all time, anywhere.”
“赌注大得吓人，”网站PoliticalBetting.com的创始人兼编辑迈克·史密森(Mike Smithson)说。这个网站的作用相当于政治事件赌徒的彭博(Bloomberg)终端。“这是全世界最大的一场政治赌局，史无前例。”