In his first live “Late Show” broadcast since the start of the Republican National Convention, Stephen Colbert promised the return of an old friend from his basic-cable days, but instead, viewers got to see two familiar faces: first, Jon Stewart, the longtime host of “The Daily Show,” and then “Stephen Colbert,” the unctuous conservative commentator that Mr. Colbert portrayed for nearly a decade on his Comedy Central program, “The Colbert Report.”
在共和党全国大会揭幕后主持的首次直播《深夜秀》(Late Show)中，斯蒂芬·科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)承诺会有自己在有线电视基础套餐岁月里的一位老朋友回归。然而，观众们却看到了两张熟悉的面孔：一是长期主持《每日秀》(The Daily Show)的乔恩·斯图尔特（Jon Stewart，网络昵称为“囧司徒”——编注)；二是科尔伯特在喜剧中心频道(Comedy Central)主持《科尔伯特报告》（The Colbert Report，网络昵称为“扣扣熊报告”——编注）期间塑造了近十年的一个角色：油腔滑调的保守派评论人“斯蒂芬·科尔伯特”。
The guest appearances from Mr. Stewart and that other Mr. Colbert appear to have paid off for “The Late Show.” According to preliminary ratings information on Tuesday, “The Late Show” was the No. 1 broadcast late-night show in overall viewership on Monday night, the first time the program has surpassed all its competitors (including Jimmy Fallon’s “Tonight” show on NBC and “Jimmy Kimmel Live” on ABC) since Feb. 15.
斯图尔特和另一位科尔伯特的客串让《深夜秀》受益匪浅。根据周二公布的初步收视数据，《深夜秀》是周一晚间总体收视人数最高的深夜脱口秀，令其自2月15日以来首次傲视所有竞争者（包括NBC播出的吉米·法伦[Jimmy Fallon]主持的《今夜秀》[Tonight] 和ABC播出的《吉米·凱莫直播秀》[Jimmy Kimmel Live]）。
“The Late Show” announced in June that it would present two weeks of live broadcasts, Monday through Thursday, to air after each night of the Republican and Democratic conventions. Though the current iteration of the program made its debut to considerable fanfare in September, it has had trouble finding a consistent voice under Mr. Colbert, who succeeded David Letterman as host and who has tried to expand his horizons beyond the irreverent political comedy he performed on “The Colbert Report.”
今年6月，《深夜秀》宣布将进行两周直播，从周一到周四，在共和与民主两党全国大会召开期间的每个晚上播出。尽管这档节目去年9月改版首播时激起了不小的水花，但此后在科尔伯特的主持下却一直苦于寻找连贯的声音。科尔伯特当时是从大卫·莱特曼(David Letterman)手中接过的话筒，一直试图突破他在《科尔伯特报告》中表演的那种肆无忌惮的政治搞笑。
Monday’s installment of “The Late Show” on CBS began with an elaborate, pretaped musical number performed by Mr. Colbert, paying satirical tribute to the Republican convention in Cleveland and the party’s presumptive presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump. (As Mr. Colbert sang: “This week, you and me, we will witness history / As the R.N.C. crowns their orange manatee.”)
周一晚间CBS播放的《深夜秀》一上来是预先录制的科尔伯特表演的音乐剧片段。这段经过精心编排的节目对在克利夫兰召开的共和党大会及锁定该党总统提名的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)进行了冷嘲热讽。（科尔伯特唱到：“这星期，我和你，要见证历史。共和党全国大会要给他们的橙色海牛加冕。”）
The host followed with a live monologue in which he riffed on moments from the first night of convention and Mr. Trump’s “60 Minutes” interview with his running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana.
接下来，科尔伯特进行了一段现场独白，重现了大会开幕当晚及特朗普与竞选搭档——印第安纳州州长迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)——共同接受《60分钟》(60 Minutes)节目采访时的精彩片段。
Later, a taped comedy sketch followed Mr. Colbert to what appeared to be an isolated cabin in the woods, where he knocked on its door and was greeted by a bearded, bathrobe-clad Mr. Stewart, who was Mr. Colbert’s boss for many years at “The Daily Show” and is now an executive producer of “The Late Show.” Alerting Mr. Stewart that it was once again time for a Republican convention, an animated Mr. Colbert told him, “You will not believe who the nominee is.” He paused to let Mr. Stewart take a sizable drink of water from a mug, then told him, “It’s Donald Trump,” at which point Mr. Stewart doused him in a sizable spit take.
这之后是一段预先录制的小品。科尔伯特似乎来到了深山老林中一栋孤零零的木屋前，他敲开了门，眼前出现了胡子拉碴、裹着睡袍的斯图尔特。他曾是科尔伯特在《每日秀》期间多年的上司，如今还是《深夜秀》的执行制片人。科尔伯特激动地告诉斯图尔特，又到了共和党召开大会的日子了，“你怎么也不会相信提名人是谁。”他停下来等待斯图尔特从杯子里喝了一大口水，然后告诉他，“是唐纳德·特朗普呀！”于是斯图尔特一口水全喷到了他脸上。
The sketch revealed that Mr. Stewart had been sharing his cabin with the Colbert character (brandishing a sword and a Captain America shield). And then “Stephen Colbert” (still holding the sword and shield) returned to the Ed Sullivan Theater and performed a new edition of “The Word,” a recurring segment from “The Colbert Report,” which ran from 2005 to 2014.
小品演到后来，观众发现斯图尔特的木屋里还有一个“科尔伯特”（挥舞着一把剑和美国队长的盾牌）。这位“斯蒂芬·科尔伯特”（依然拿着长剑和盾牌）随后回到了埃德·沙利文剧场，表演了新版的“说文解字”(The Word)。这是2005到2014年播出的《科尔伯特报告》中反复出现的一个环节。
Just as “The Colbert Report” helped introduce audiences to the word “truthiness,” Mr. Colbert used this latest installment to contemplate the condition of “Trumpiness”: “Remember, elections aren’t about what voters think, it’s about what voters feel. And right now, at least half of Americans feel their voices aren’t being heard.” (An onscreen graphic delivered the punch line: “Especially Mike Pence.”)
正如《科尔伯特报告》向观众介绍了“感实性”(truthiness)的概念，科尔伯特在最新这期《深夜秀》中思考了“特朗普感实性”(Trumpiness)的用法：“请记住，选举的关键不是选民的想法，而是选民的感受。今时今日，至少有一半美国人感到自己的声音没有得到倾听。”（此时屏幕上打出了点睛之笔：“尤其是迈克·彭斯”。）
After a commercial break, Mr. Colbert returned as — presumably — himself. “It was really great to see Jon Stewart again,” he said. With a knowing smile, he added: “You know what would be nice? To have that happen again some time this week.”
广告过后，科尔伯特意料之中地以本尊回归。“又一次看到乔恩·斯图尔特真是太好了，”他说。带着意味深长的微笑，他又开了口：“你们知道什么会很棒吗？那就是，本周什么时候再这么来一回。”