“Salinger,” the doorstop-thick new biography by David Shields and Shane Salerno, announces itself on the dust jacket as “the official book of the acclaimed documentary film” of the same title. (The film itself credits Paul Alexander’s biography of Salinger as its source.) “Acclaimed” is perhaps wishful thinking, but the most dubious words in that puffy phrase are “documentary film.” There are plenty of archival images and talking-head interviews, but “Salinger,” directed by Mr. Salerno, is less a work of cinema than the byproduct of its own publicity campaign. It does not so much explore the life and times of J. D. Salinger as run his memory and legacy through a spin cycle of hype. Salinger moved to the woods of New Hampshire partly to escape the intrusions and indignities of American celebrity culture. “Salinger” is that culture’s revenge.
《塞林格》(Salinger)是大卫·希尔兹(David Shields)与谢恩·萨莱诺(Shane Salerno)的新著传记，厚如门挡，书封自称“获盛赞纪录片的官方图书”（影片本身却将保罗·亚历山大[Paul Alexander]所著的塞林格传记誉为资料来源）。“获盛赞”也许只是一厢情愿的想法，而在这一句吹牛皮的措辞中，最暧昧可疑的几个字是“纪录片”。《塞林格》一片由萨莱诺先生执导，该片有大量档案图像，以及头部特写的采访谈话。但与其说这是一部电影作品，不如说是《塞林格》营销宣传活动中的一款副产品。影片犹如一架不停转的宣传机器，天花乱坠、走马观花地播放着J·D·塞林格(J.D. Salinger)的记忆，以及他留给后人的财富；而片中对他生平及时代的探索，分量却逊不及此。塞林格搬进新罕布什尔州林间居住，一部分就是因为想要躲避美国名人文化的入侵和轻侮。《塞林格》则是这种文化的复仇。
Mr. Salerno, a dogged researcher and tireless interviewer, assembles his documentary material (supplemented by re-enactments and propelled by a throbbing, action-movie score) into a breathless story full of hyperbole and speculation. The resulting blend of reverence and character assassination is an almost perfect distillation of the modern pathology of fame. Salinger, a talented, hard-working and very popular writer, who died in 2010, is built up into a world-historical literary genius. Though a few negative reviews are mentioned — by Mary McCarthy and John Updike, most notably — they are drowned out by a chorus of extravagant praise. High school students and movie stars testify that “The Catcher in the Rye” changed their lives and changed the world.
萨莱诺先生是个顽强固执的研究员，也是个不知疲倦的采访者。他将他这纪录片的材料（辅以重现历史的表演，在动作电影般悸动的配乐推进下）组装成一个令人喘不过气的故事，充满了夸张与推测。最后所得到的这个东西，混合了敬畏与人格中伤，几乎完美浓缩了“名气”的现代病理。塞林格于2010年去世，是一位十分受欢迎的作家，有才华又勤奋，在片中被塑造成了具有世界历史意义的文学天才。虽然片中也提及一些负面评论——最令人瞩目的来自玛丽·麦卡锡(Mary McCarthy)和约翰·厄普代克(John Updike)——但这些声音全都淹没在了一曲奢豪溢美的合唱赞歌之中。高中学生和电影明星登场作证，称《麦田里的守望者》(The Catcher in the Rye)改变了他们的人生，还改变了世界。
But Salinger’s work is built up in this way so that his life can be torn open, and the fortress of privacy he erected around it torn down. A run-of-the-mill eccentric author of short stories might be left alone in the hills above the Connecticut River, but a genius of this caliber, whose books have been declared the common property of all humanity, is clearly asking to be exposed. And several of his stalkers — journalists and fans who staked out Salinger’s local post office or roosted at the bottom of his driveway — choose to interpret his supposed reclusiveness as a covert demand for attention.
但是，片中将塞林格的作品如此塑造一番，只为扯破他的一生、推倒他在自己人生周围树立起的隐私要塞。一个算不上特别古怪的短篇小说作者，可能会被孤独地遗忘在康涅狄格河岸的丘陵之上；然而一个具备如此水准的天才，其著作已被宣布为全人类共同财产，却明显渴求着曝光。一些塞林格的跟踪狂——监视当地邮局或蹲守他家车道口的记者、粉丝——则选择将他应该是想要隐居的行为，阐释为他渴望获得关注的隐秘需求。
This is an interesting and not altogether implausible idea, one of many that flicker into view during “Salinger,” only to be dissolved in the acid of sensationalism. Some of the film’s most intriguing information has to do with Salinger’s experiences in World War II, where he endured almost 300 days in combat and took part in the liberation of Dachau. He stayed in Europe after V-E Day to work with the Army Counterintelligence Corps and was briefly married to a German woman who may have been a Nazi. All the while, he was writing chapters of “The Catcher in the Rye.”
《塞林格》一片闪现许多观点，上述就是其一。这个想法有趣，也并不完全令人难以置信，但镜头最终却只在哗众取宠的酸腐煽情中溶解。片中最耐人寻味的信息与塞林格二战经历有关。他忍受了将近300天的作战，参与了解放达豪的战事，于欧战胜利日之后留在欧洲协助美军反间谍部队的工作，还与一位可能是纳粹的德国女子有过一段短暂的婚姻。这期间，他始终都在写《麦田里的守望者》部分章节。
Mr. Salerno overplays his hand by making the war the key to nearly everything about Salinger, the primal wound that festers beneath the surface of his stories about young, rich, disaffected Americans. The idea that “Catcher” is a closet combat novel is provocative and not necessarily dismissible, but it needs to be argued with a sense of literary nuance, a sense of literature as something other than a message-delivery system, that is utterly missing here. Juxtaposing cover art from an early paperback edition of “Catcher” with photographs of death camp corpses does not do the trick.
以战争为关键，将之与塞林格几乎所有一切挂钩，仿佛他笔下那些有关年轻、富裕、愤懑的美国人的故事，其表层之下溃烂的原始伤口也正源于此——萨莱诺先生这样搞，太过火。称《麦田》一书是一部反应内心战争的私密小说，这观点有些挑衅，未尝不可，但需提出理由予以论辩——要带着文学性的细微敏感去论辩，要意识到文学不仅仅是传递消息的系统才行——而本片则完全欠缺这种观念。把《麦田》一书某个早期平装本的封面，与死亡集中营的尸体照片并列放在一起，并不管用，达不到理想中的效果。
The other main theme of “Salinger” is his personal life, in particular the relationships he had, platonic and not, with younger women and teenage girls. Interviews with two of them — Jean Miller, who met Salinger in the late 1940s in Florida and who is thought to have inspired his story “For Esmé — With Love and Squalor,” and Joyce Maynard, who lived with Salinger in the early ’70s and later wrote a book about the experience — are genuinely illuminating and disturbing. His behavior with them sheds a queasy light on his fiction, which often dwells on the precocity and half-innocence of characters perched on the brink of ruinous disillusionment.
《塞林格》一片中另一个重要主题就是他的个人生活，尤其是他与年轻女人还有少女之间的关系——有的是柏拉图式的，有的则不是。一则为珍·米勒(Jean Miller)，她20世纪40年代末在佛罗里达州遇到塞林格，据信激发了后者灵感，令其得以创作《为埃斯米而作：既有爱也有污秽凄苦》(For Esmé—With Love and Squalor)这个故事；一则为乔伊斯·梅纳德(Joyce Maynard)，她70年代初曾与塞林格一起生活，后就此段经历写成一本书。片中对这两位的采访确实令人眼前一亮，但也确实烦人。塞林格对她们所做的事，略令人作呕地进一步揭示了他的小说；他的小说，常沉浸在角色的早熟与半纯不真之中；这些角色，则危居在毁灭性的幻灭边缘。
“Salinger” offers up the bombshell revelation — anonymously sourced and blasted onto the screen with the kind of music that usually accompanies the destruction of a planet — that more novels are in store. Those will be acclaimed (or not) in due course, but in the meantime, Salinger fans will have to contend with this garish and confusing portrait. There are insights that can be plucked from it, but to do so requires strenuous resistance to the spirit of the project (both book and film), which is not just leering and gossipy, but aggressively anti-literary.
《塞林格》为观众揭露了一个爆炸性的真相——匿名信息来源，配以通常是星球要毁灭了才放的那种音乐，犹如冲击波一般炸裂银幕——人们即将迎来更多塞林格的小说。到时候那些小说就会大获（也可能不获）盛赞，但与此同时，面对该片塑造的这个塞林格形象，俗丽花俏又令人困惑不清，他的粉丝们不得不硬着头皮先应付着。从中倒也能扯出一些深刻见解，但你首先要有极强的抵抗力，要能忍受这个项目（包括书和电影）的精神——这精神还不只是挤眉弄眼和八卦饶舌，更是咄咄逼人的反文学。
It is not entirely Mr. Salerno’s fault that he barely quotes any of Salinger’s words, apart from a few snippets of letters in the possession of their recipients. The film is dealing with an author notoriously protective of his copyright. (One of the few times he initiated contact with a journalist was to expose, and try to suppress, the circulation of pirated editions of early stories). But it is curious that a movie about such a notorious perfectionist should be so sloppy in matters of judgment and craft. The re-enactments — in which a dark-haired figure in a suit paces a darkened stage and pounds away at a typewriter, or else (dressed in a blue jumpsuit) lumbers through the forest with an ax — are embarrassingly literal. And the conversation about the place of “The Catcher in the Rye” in the imaginations of a few notorious killers would be a parody of hyperventilating tabloidism if it were not so obviously the real thing.
片中除引用一些属收信人财产的塞林格手书片段，鲜有引用塞林格原话。这不完全是萨莱诺先生的错。这部电影讨论的这位作家，对他个人版权的保护简直“恶名远扬”（他主动与记者接触的次数不多，其中一次还是针对市面流通着集结他早期小说的盗版书——他想要揭发，甚至试图打压这个事）。但奇怪的是，这部电影是关于如此“声名狼藉”的一个完美主义者，可电影本身在价值判断与制作工艺上，竟这般马虎邋遢。片中重现历史的表演——有个身着西装的黑发身影，在漆黑的舞台上踱步，在一台打字机前埋头苦干，或又（身穿蓝色连裤衫）提着一把斧子蹒跚穿过森林——都是非常尴尬的字面解读。几个臭名昭著的杀人犯也议论到了《麦田的守望者》。关于此书在这些人幻想中的位置，片中的对话似在拙劣戏仿耸人听闻的小报风格，上气不接下气——可惜其实它显然并非模仿，而就是这种风格本身。
One of the experts dragged into that discussion notes that the word “phony” appears in “Catcher” more than 30 times. The last time I read the book, I thought Holden Caulfield overused that word, but, in this case, it is surely le mot juste.
专家也被拖进上述的讨论。其中一位指出，“假模假式”(phony)一词在《麦田》中出现了30余次。我上次读这本书时，还觉得霍尔顿·考菲尔德(Holden Caulfield)过度使用这个词；但这个词，用在这里，简直恰到好处。