Digital medical records. Special economic zones. Structural reforms.
医疗记录数字化、建立经济特区、开展结构改革。
The core ideas behind Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s much-publicized growth strategy are stirring a nagging sense of déjà vu.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的策略得到了广泛的宣传，但其背后的核心理念激起了一种令人不安的似曾相识感。
They should. The plan, which is set to be approved later this week, borrows liberally from a string of previous government initiatives that similarly promised to bolster the economy, including his own. And economists and investors are increasingly worried that the latest initiative will have the same effect as the past ones — that is to say, little at all.
的确应该感到不安。安倍的方案将于本周晚些时候经过批准，他的方案随意地借用了过去的一些政府举措。那些举措同样承诺要刺激经济，其中还包括安倍晋三本人过去的提议。经济学家和投资者越来越担忧，最近的措施将产生和之前的措施一样的效果，也就是说，根本没有效果。
“Every prime minister in recent memory has introduced an economic growth strategy, each not much better than the other,” said Akihiko Suzuki, chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting, the research arm of the large Japanese bank.
三菱UFJ研究和咨询公司(Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting)首席经济学家铃木明彦(Akihiko Suzuki)说，“记忆中最近几位首相，每一个都推出过经济增长策略，每次策略的效果都好不到哪儿去。”这家咨询公司是同名的大型银行旗下的咨询部门。
“Expectations rise, but are quickly dashed,” Mr. Suzuki said. “It’s foolish to expect something different this time.”
铃木明彦说，“人们的期望提升起来，不过很快就破灭了。傻子才会以为这一次的结局会不一样。”
The first two arrows of Mr. Abe’s economic push — a sizable dose of monetary and fiscal stimulus — initially impressed investors, sending the stock market soaring as much as 80 percent in six months. But some of that enthusiasm has evaporated, since Mr. Abe outlined the third piece, the core growth strategy. In recent weeks, the Nikkei has been in a steady slide.
安倍晋三促进经济的头两箭一开始给投资者留下了深刻印象，这两招是大剂量的货币和财政刺激举措，让股指在6个月里飙升高达80%。不过，自从安倍晋三概述了其核心经济策略的第三招之后，股市涌现的部分激情就已经烟消云散了。近几周，日经指数(Nikkei)一直在稳步下滑。
Some investors worry that the prime minister’s plans are not much different than the largely ineffective attempts made by his predecessors, including Mr. Abe during his previous stint in 2006 and 2007.
一些投资者担忧，安倍晋三的方案和他的前任们几乎毫无成效的尝试没有什么不同。过去的尝试中还包括了安倍自己在2006年和2007年期间曾实施的紧缩措施。
Take Mr. Abe’s idea to help create a cutting-edge industry by digitizing Japan’s wealth of medical data, ripe for mining by technology companies. A similar policy was featured in Mr. Abe’s accelerated growth program, drawn up in mid-2007, during his previous term in office.
其中一个例子是通过对日本丰富的医疗数据进行数字化，进而建立一个先进的产业。日本的医疗数据足够成熟，可供科技企业挖掘。安倍晋三的这个设想，与他上次担任首相时拟定的经济增长促进方案中的一项政策相似，该计划是他在2007年中期拟定的。
But after Mr. Abe resigned in September 2007, doctors started to grumble over the burdens of digitization. Many clinics run by older physicians eventually won exemption from the plan, along with others who found it difficult to work with digital technology. It is unclear whether the digital push this time will be more comprehensive or how much new business it may generate.
不过，2007年9月安倍晋三辞职之后，医生们开始抱怨数字化带来的负担。许多年长医生经营的诊所最终得以免于实施该计划，其他感觉使用数字技术很难工作的医生也得到了豁免。并不清楚这一次推动数字化的尝试是否会更全面，也并不清楚能产生多少新商业机遇。
Mr. Abe also wants to create special economic zones that would relax some aspects of nationwide regulation in an effort to woo foreign investors. In part, the prime minister is pushing for more flexible medical services to cater to expatriates and more leeway for companies in emerging fields to hire and fire staff members.
安倍晋三还打算建立经济特区，这些经济特区将在某些方面放松面向全国的监管措施，从而吸引外国投资者。作为该政策的一部分，安倍晋三正在推动更加灵活的医疗服务，来满足外籍人士的需求，并为新兴领域的企业雇佣和解雇员工提供更大余地。
Mr. Abe’s mentor, the former prime minister Junichiro Koizumi, tried much the same tack in the early 2000s. His reforms led to the creation of almost 1,000 special zones for structural reform, which relaxed things like the paperwork required by foreign researchers, standardized school curriculums, and licenses to home-brew sake, or Japanese rice wine.
21世纪最初几年，安倍晋三的导师、前首相小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)曾尝试过大致相同的方案。他的改革促使日本建立了近1000个特别区域开展结构性改革，放松了对外国研究人员的手续要求、规范了学校课程标准，并对家庭酿造的清酒发放了许可。
The opposition Democratic Party introduced similar zones during its three-year stint in power, which ended in late 2012 with the victory of Mr. Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party. But the long-term impact of such efforts has been limited.
日本的在野党民主党(Democratic Party)在当政的三年里也推出过类似的经济特区，这些特区随着安倍晋三所在的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)在大选中获胜，而在2012年末终止。
Sweeping economic goals and strategies have become an almost annual rite for Japan’s successive prime ministers.
大举推出新的经济目标，出台新的经济战略，简直成了日本走马灯似的首相们一年一度的仪式。
Before Mr. Abe’s growth strategy came three policy initiatives from the Democratic Party: Yukio Hatoyama’s New Growth Strategy of 2010; Naoto Kan’s Scenario to Bring Back a Lively Japan of 2011; and Yoshihiko Noda’s Japan Revival Strategy of 2012. Those initiatives did little to brighten Japan’s economic prospects.
安倍晋三的增长策略出台前，日本的民主党已经三次推出新政策：2010年鸠山由纪夫(Yukio Hatoyama)的新增长策略，2011年菅直人(Naoto Kan)的恢复日本活力策略，以及2012年野田佳彦(Yoshihiko Noda)的日本复兴策略。对于改善日本的经济前景，这些努力都收效甚微。
Preceding those policies were Yasuo Fukuda’s Economic Growth Strategy of 2008 and Taro Aso’s Future Pioneering Strategy of 2009, which focused mainly on increasing gross domestic product. But the Japanese economy suffered its most severe recession amid the global financial crisis, ending the Liberal Democratic Party’s half-century of almost uninterrupted rule.
再往前，是2008年福田康夫(Yasuo Fukuda)的经济增长策略，及2009年麻生太郎(Taro Aso)的未来先驱策略。麻生太郎的策略主要专注于提高GDP。但是日本经济在全球金融危机中遭受了最惨重的衰退，终止了自民党半个世纪来几乎没有间断的统治。
Now, investors are worried that Mr. Abe’s growth strategy is merely more of the same, a situation that threatens to undermine confidence in the other facets of his program.
现在，投资者们担心，安倍晋三的增长策略只是再重复一次同样的情形，这样就可能影响人们对于安倍晋三计划中其他方面的信心。
“Until now, Mr. Abe had exceeded expectations. But just as we got to the most vital part of his program, he failed to produce anything substantive,” said Akio Makabe, a professor of economics at Shinshu University.
信州大学(Shinshu University)经济学教授真壁昭夫(Akio Makabe)说，“迄今为止，安倍晋三的表现超出了人们的预期。但是他计划中最关键的部分却没有任何实质性内容。”
Mr. Abe has tried to accentuate the differences between his reform efforts and Japan’s previous attempts at change. Mr. Abe has suggested the special economic zones might offer lower corporate tax rates. But he is likely to face difficulty bringing Japan’s 38 percent tax rate in line with Singapore or Hong Kong — whose corporate taxes are half that rate — without grumbling from businesses that do not qualify.
安倍晋三试图强调他的改革措施与日本过去的变革尝试之间的区别。安倍晋三称，经济特区会征收更低的公司税。然而要想将日本38%的税率降低到与新加坡或香港相当的水平，而又不让没有资格享受税收优惠的企业抱怨，安倍晋三可能会面临困难。新加坡和香港的税率只是日本的一半。
There are already early signs of fault-finding. Lawmakers from Mr. Abe’s own Liberal Democratic Party have openly criticized a push to allow the sale of nonprescription drugs on the Internet — a move that would hurt brick-and-mortar pharmacists, a vocal interest group in Japan. With an eye on coming elections, the government is already moving toward keeping its Internet sales ban on more than two dozen of the best-selling drugs, including indigestion medicines and hair growth formula for men, a pharmaceutical cash cow.
现在已经出现了找茬的初步迹象。安倍晋三自己的政党自民党的议员，对于推动允许在网上出售非处方药的做法公开提出了批评。这种行为会伤害实体药店。而实体药店在日本是十分敢言的利益团体。考虑到即将到来的选举，政府已经在着手禁止网上销售二十多种畅销药，包括消化不良药和男性生发配方，后者是制药企业的摇钱树。
“We have a problem if people start using twice the drugs they need, just because of the convenience” of buying medicine online, Norihisa Tamura, the health minister, said at a meeting of lawmakers last week.
上周，日本厚生劳动大臣田村宪久(Norihisa Tamura)在一次议员会议上说，因为在网上买药方便，“要是人们服用了两倍所需的剂量，就会出问题”。
Mr. Abe’s economic drive is coupled with a far more aggressive program of pump-priming, which economists say could make the difference. And some economists called for patience as Mr. Abe fleshed out his reforms ahead of parliamentary elections this summer.
在安倍实行经济推动政策的同时，还采取了更激进政府投资计划来刺激经济。经济学家表示，这种计划会产生效果。而且，安倍晋三会在今年夏天的议会选举前提出具体的改革措施，一些经济学家呼吁，此时公众应当保持耐心。
“It is in the nature of prime ministers’ speeches that they don’t have enough detail to satisfy the policy wonks,” Nicholas Smith, Japan strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, wrote in a note. “This seems like complaining that the waiter didn’t read you the whole recipe book.”
里昂证券亚太市场(CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets)的日本策略师尼古拉斯·史密斯(Nicholas Smith)在一份报告中写道，“首相演说本来就不会给出足够多的细节，去满足那些对政策吹毛求疵的人。这仿佛是在抱怨，服务员没有把整本菜谱读给你听。”