In the wrong context, being asked if you’re gay is like pulling back the shower curtain in the morning and finding a census taker scribbling frantically on his clipboard. You think: Why now? Why so close to my loofah?
在错误的场合下被人问“你是不是同志”，感觉有点像大清早进了浴室，却发现里面有个查户口的，正在里面忙着往本子上记东西。你会想：为什么是现在？为什么要站在我的搓澡巾旁边？
“It’s an interesting question to ask,” said the comedian Margaret Cho, who is bisexual. “If you’re gay yourself, you’re looking for community, for connection. If you’re not gay, then what is that information important for? Is it to make a judgment about who that person is?”
“这是个很有意思的问题，”双性恋喜剧演员赵牡丹(Margaret Cho)说。“如果你自己也是同性恋，问别人这个问题就好像在拉关系套近乎。如果你不是同性恋，那别人是不是同性恋有什么大不了的？这是在裁判对方的身份吗？”
In a world in which a wedding ring or a desktop photo of children is no longer a signifier of heterosexuality, the question is being asked with what seems increasing frequency. Freedom almost always comes at a price: If, in the last decade, an increased tolerance of homosexuality has reduced the stigma of that sexual orientation, this reduced stigma has also emboldened more people, both gay and straight, to ask what they now view as a less-volatile question.
如今，凭着结婚戒指和书桌上孩子的照片也不能判断对方是异性恋了，于是这个问题也就更加频繁地被问起。自由总是伴随代价而来：在过去的十年里，对同性恋的宽容度在增加，对性取向的污名化在减少，但污名一去，更多人（同性恋与异性恋都有）也变得敢于去询问别人的性取向，不把这视为多么敏感的问题。
For those of us who are not administrators looking to apportion minority-based benefits, is it ever O.K. to ask this question? “A lot of it is related to what they call in First Amendment law ‘time, place and manner,’ ” said a gay Egyptian lawyer who works for a large international law firm in Manhattan and who is out to his friends and immediate family but not to his extended family. “Meaning, context is everything. If you’re sitting in someone’s office — a co-worker you’re not particularly close to, or it’s a job interview — and you get ‘the vibe,’ but they have a wedding ring or pictures of kids but no picture of a partner, that’s probably not the time. But if someone you didn’t know to be gay — and I encounter this at work a lot — seems to be speaking with authority or expertise about the goings-on at the workplace of the L.G.B.T. network, it’s appropriate to ask.”
除了负责分配少数群体福利的管理者，其他人询问别人的性取向合适吗？“这和宪法第一修正案中所谓的‘时间、地点和方式’很有关系，”一位埃及同性恋律师说，他在曼哈顿一家大型国际律师事务所工作，目前已向朋友和直系亲属们出柜，但没向所有亲戚出柜。“也就是说，语境很重要。如果你在某人的办公室，比如说，一个不是特别熟的同事的办公室里，或者为工作拜访某人——然后你‘有了那种感觉’，但对方戴着婚戒，或者办公桌上有孩子的照片，却没有伴侣的照片，那可能不是询问的好时机。如果换个场合——我在工作中就遇上过很多次——你不知道某个人是不是同性恋，但他在工作场合用权威或专家的口吻说起LGBT领域内发生的事情，那你就可以问他。”
Some individuals encounter the question more than others. Take, for instance, my 26-year-old friend Ryan Haney, who, although straight, is often mistaken for gay because of his air of boyish wonderment and his propensity for making unmasculine comments. Once, during the first season of “Downton Abbey,” Mr. Haney told me that he hoped Lady Mary and Matthew Crawley would get married. “Just think,” he said, “the entire second season of the show could be devoted to the wedding!”
有些人比其他人更容易遇上这种问题。比如说我26岁的朋友瑞安·哈尼(Ryan Haney)，他虽然是直男，但是经常被人当同性恋，因为他有种男孩子气的大惊小怪，还经常发表点没什么男性气质的观点。有一次，看第一季《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)的时候，哈尼说，他希望玛丽小姐和马修·克劳利(Matthew Crawley)结婚。“你想想，这样整个第二季就可以用来讲那场婚礼了！”他说。
When Mr. Haney is not doing research for me or performing improv comedy at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater, he can be found waiting tables at Egg, a restaurant in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
哈尼有时候帮我做研究，有时在“诚实公民旅团剧场”上演即兴喜剧，此外他还在布鲁克林区威廉斯堡一家名叫“鸡蛋”的饭馆当侍者。
Six months ago, when an older gay couple started going to Egg and asking to be seated in Mr. Haney’s section, Mr. Haney began comping their drinks, which set off an escalating, monthslong flurry of tipping and badinage, none of which made Mr. Haney uncomfortable (“They’re really sweet guys”).
六个月前，一对年长的同性恋伴侣开始经常光顾“鸡蛋”，要求坐在哈尼负责的区域。哈尼给他俩上饮料，结果整整一个月，这两人都在没完没了地拿哈尼打趣，玩笑不断升级，小费也在增加，这两样都没让哈尼觉得不舒服（“他们真是好人”）。
“First, one of them told me I was ‘a bad boy’ for comping their drinks,” he said. “The next week it was, ‘You’re going to get in trouble.’ Then it was, ‘Can I have a hug?’ Then we got to a hug and a kiss. Then a $20 tip, a hug and a kiss, and he said, ‘If I were any younger, I would kidnap you and take you home with me.’
“一开始，他们说我是给他们上饮料的‘坏孩子’，”他说，“下一个星期，他们说‘你要有麻烦了’。然后是，‘我能抱抱你吗？’后来他们就抱了我，还吻了我一下。然后又是20美元的小费，一个拥抱，一个吻，然后他说，‘我要是再年轻点，肯定把你绑架带回家’。
“The next time they came in, he asked me, ‘Are you seeing anyone?’ I said, ‘Yeah.’ He said: ‘Who is he? Does he do comedy, too?’ And I said: ‘Oh, yeah. Yeah.’ Which is kind of true because the woman I’m seeing does do comedy.”
“他们下次来的时候，他问我，‘你有约会对象吗？’我说，‘有。’他问：‘他是谁，他也演喜剧吗？’我说：‘啊，对对对。’这倒也没错，因为我约的那个女人确实也演喜剧。”
But why didn’t Mr. Haney speak more plainly? “We were too far along in the relationship at that point,” he said. “I didn’t want to hurt their feelings by making them feel like they’d stepped out of line.”
但哈尼为什么不直接告诉他们呢？“我们保持这种关系已经很久了，”他说，“我不想伤害他们的感情，让他们觉得自己做了过分的事。”
Intriguingly, Mr. Haney had responded similarly months earlier when a co-worker at Egg told him that a male colleague of theirs had a crush on Mr. Haney: “I told her, ‘I don’t think he’s my type.’ ” Why wasn’t he more forthcoming this time? “Saying ‘I’m not gay,’ especially if you sound defensive about it, can have a homophobic connotation sometimes,” he said. Is he flattered by being misperceived this way? “Always,” he said. “The stereotype of gay guys is nice, well dressed, polite, funny. I’m flattered every time.”
有意思的是，当月早些时候，“鸡蛋”的一个女同事告诉哈尼，另外一个男同事迷上他了，哈尼的反应也差不多：“我告诉她：‘他不是我喜欢的类型。’”为什么他不直说呢？“如果我说‘我不是同性恋’，特别是显得好像在自我防卫的时候，有时候会让人觉得你恐同，”他说。被人这么误会，他是不是也会因为觉得受到恭维而心中窃喜呢？“当然会，”他说。“一般人心目中男同性恋都是有风度、穿衣讲究、彬彬有礼又风趣，每次我都觉得自己是受恭维了。”
Indeed, the recent softening of some younger, urban heterosexual men has created confusion for these men’s admirers. (For a hilarious look at Mr. Haney’s and other sensitive, straight men’s gay-sounding real-life utterances, check out the Tumblr Things My Straight Boyfriend Says.)
事实上，最近年轻的都市异性恋男人开始出现软化倾向，令他们的爱慕者感到困惑（你可以在Tumblr账号“Things My Straight Boyfriend Says”上查到哈尼和其他性格敏感的直男们在生活中发表很像同性恋的搞笑言论）。
Typically, the two groups of men who refreshingly blur traditional black-and-white ideas about orientation are Jewish and British men: Here are sensitive fellows who own more than one sweater and who have internalized feelings about the Muppets Statler and Waldorf. However, we can ascribe many of these same virtues to two of the more recent demographic additions to the male canon: becalmed, screen-staring tech workers, and food-obsessed, bewhiskered dandies. The circle widens.
一般来说，犹太男人和英国男人最乐于打破性取向领域非黑即白的传统观念：这些敏感的小伙子们拥有不止一件卫衣，内心颇有斯塔特勒与华道夫木偶的感觉。不过，两个新近出现的标准男性人群也有同样的品德，他们是性格温和，总是盯着电脑屏幕的技术工作者，以及热爱美食、留着胡子的花花公子。这个圈子扩大了。
It would be lovely to think that, outside of those who have romantic or sexual aspirations in mind, people may not care if you drink from the proverbial well of loneliness. But it would also be unrealistic: chickens cluck. Therefore, it may be best to remind the world of the time-tested remedies for sexual orientation confusion.
除了内心对你怀有爱慕或性欲的人之外，其他人可能根本不在乎你是不是独身一人，假如真是这样就好了。但这也是不现实的：总会有闲言蜚语。所以最好还是提供一点关于性取向困惑的经验之谈。
To wit, you can ask the person in question’s friends. You can ask his or her colleagues. You can follow Ms. Cho’s advice: “Listen for ringtones. If you hear a ringtone that’s like” — here she broke out into a synthesizer-like womp-womp sound befitting a Rihanna song — “then you know. Or if you hear them say, ‘Did you hear that Madonna fell?,’ then you’re like: ‘Oh! I know you!’ ”
其实，你可以向这个性取向不详的朋友们打听。你可以问他或她的同事。你可以听取周女士的建议：“听听他的手机铃声，如果是……”——她模仿合成器的声音哼起一首蕾哈娜(Rihanna)的歌——“这样你就明白了。或者如果你听到他们说，‘你听说了吗，麦当娜(Madonna)摔了一跤’，那你就明白了：‘啊，原来你是……！’”
There’s also a traditional gay gambit called “dropping hairpins.” This means to drop clues, if not outright statements, about one’s own homosexuality in an effort to induce one’s interlocutor to follow suit. “I’ve done that,” the Egyptian lawyer said, “in instances where I wanted to put it into the conversation without being transactional.” The results are often palpable. Mr. Haney said: “I don’t know how to return a hairpin that’s been dropped. I guess I’d have to say, ‘Yes, my girlfriend and I are HUGE fans of Liza.’ ”
有一种男同性恋的传统把戏，叫做“扔发夹”。就是抛出一点隐晦的线索，谈及自己的同性恋身份，引诱对方也透露自己的身份。“我做过这种事，”那个埃及律师说，“有时候，我会在非业务性的谈话中加进这种东西。”这种谈话引起的结果通常是可以感觉到的。哈尼说：“我不知道该怎样回应对方扔过来的‘发夹’。我想我可能应该说，‘对，我和我的女朋友都是莉莎的忠实歌迷。’”
But in the end, the best approaches may be the most passive. You can wait and see. “If I can’t figure it out,” the Egyptian lawyer said, “then I know it will reveal itself in time.” Or, more complicated but not impossible, you can put yourself in Ms. Cho’s orbit. “In my world,” she said, “everyone is gay and they remain gay until proven otherwise. I assume homosexuality always.”
但是到最后，最好的办法也可能是最消极的办法——干脆就采取观望态度。“如果我不能辨别出对方是不是同性恋，”埃及律师书说，“我也知道，早晚有一天会真相大白的。”还有更复杂的办法，不过也不是根本做不到——你可以学赵女士的样子。“在我的世界里，”她说，“我会把所有男人都当是男同性恋，直到他们证明自己不是。我也一直都在假定自己是同性恋。”