H. R. Giger, a Swiss painter, sculptor and set designer who mined his own nightmares in creating phantasmagorical works, including the title character — slimy, eyeless and oddly sexual — in the 1979 hit film “Alien,” died on Monday in Zurich. He was 74.
瑞士画家、雕塑家与布景师H·R·吉格尔(H. R. Giger)周一于苏黎世去世，享年74岁。他生前从自己的噩梦中寻找灵感，创作出变幻莫测的作品，包括1979年大热电影《异形》(Alien)中黏滑、没有眼睛而具有奇异性感的外星生物。
Sandra Mivelaz, administrator of the H. R. Giger Museum in Gruyères, Switzerland, said he died of injuries suffered in a fall.
H·R·吉格尔美术馆(H. R. Giger Museum)位于瑞士的格吕耶尔，该馆馆长桑德拉·米维拉兹(Sandra Mivelaz)说他死于跌倒后的严重受伤。
Mr. Giger (pronounced GHEE-ger) was part of the team that won an Academy Award for visual effects in “Alien.” He personally designed the title character through all stages of its life, from egg to eight-foot-tall monster.
《异形》视觉团队曾经获得奥斯卡奖，吉格尔是他们当中的一员。他设计出“异形”这个形象整个生命的所有阶段，从卵到八英尺高的怪物。
A thread running through Mr. Giger’s work was the uneasy meshing of machines and biology, in a highly idiosyncratic blend of science fiction and surrealism. From books to movies to record albums to magazine illustrations to a back-scratcher inspired by “Alien,” his designs challenged norms. He kept a notepad next to his bed so he could sketch the terrors that rocked his uneasy sleep — nightmarish forms that could as easily have lumbered from prehistory as arrived from Mars.
机械与生物体令人不安的融合贯穿于吉格尔的全部作品之中，并且极度诡异地融科幻与超现实主义为一体。无论是书籍、电影、唱片、杂志插画，还是一个灵感来自《异形》的痒痒挠，他的设计都在挑战着规则。他总是把一个笔记本放在床边，随手画下扰乱他梦境的恐怖之物——大都是噩梦般的生物，仿佛从史前时代降临，又仿佛来自火星。
“Giger’s work disturbs us, spooks us, because of its enormous evolutionary time span,” Timothy Leary, the psychedelic drug guru and a friend of Mr. Giger’s, once said. “It shows us, all too clearly, where we come from and where we are going.”
“吉格尔的作品之所以令我们不安，挥之不去，是因为它们在进化上的巨大跨度，”蒂莫西·利尔(Timothy Leary)曾经说过，这位迷幻药导师是吉格尔的朋友。“它过于清晰地向我们显示出我们从何而来，往何处去。”
Tattoo artists loved to copy his work, while detractors dismissed it as so much morbid kitsch. But the artist knew his audience.
刺青艺术家喜欢模仿他的作品，也有人贬低它们是过于病态的媚俗。但吉格尔了解自己的受众。
“My paintings seem to make the strongest impression on people who are, well, who are crazy,” Mr. Giger said in a 1979 interview with Starlog magazine.
“我的画似乎对那些，哦，那些疯狂的人们最有影响力，”1979年，吉格尔在接受《星志》(Starlog)杂志采访时说。
“Alien,” directed by Ridley Scott and starring Sigourney Weaver, Tom Skerritt and John Hurt, established Mr. Giger’s reputation. In the movie the crew of a commercial spaceship finds alien eggs, one of which grows and metamorphoses into a hideous terror, at once reptilian and insectoid, and causes all manner of gruesome mayhem. It reproduces by implanting an egg in a human and bursting out of the host’s chest.
《异形》由雷德利·斯科特(Ridley Scott)导演，西格妮·韦弗(Sigourney Weaver)、汤姆·斯凯里特(Tom Skerritt)和约翰·赫特(John Hurt)主演，它为吉格尔奠定了声誉。影片中，一艘贸易太空船上的船员发现了来自外星的卵，其中一个长大变形为丑陋恐怖的生物，突然具备了爬虫和昆虫的形态，造成各种可怕的伤害。它把卵输入人体，并从宿主胸口爆裂而出，以此进行繁殖。
Mr. Giger also created a derelict spacecraft for the film.
吉格尔还为该片设计了一艘废弃的太空船。
The “Alien” creations were refinements of the surreal images that appeared in Mr. Giger’s first book, “Necronomicon” (1977). Mr. Scott hired Mr. Giger after seeing the book.
吉格尔于1977年出版了他的第一本书：《死灵之书》(Necronomicon)，《异形》中的生物就是从这本书的超现实形象中提炼出来的。导演斯科特看了这本书后，决定雇用吉格尔。
“I’d never been so certain about anything in all my life,” he later said.
“这是我这辈子做得最有把握的事，”后来他说。
Mr. Giger published around 20 books in all, and his works were exhibited in Paris, Prague and New York. He also created designs for “Alien 3” (1992), “Prometheus” (2012) and other movies. Two bars he designed in Switzerland have been compared to marooned alien spaceships.
吉格尔总共出版过20余本书，他的作品在巴黎、布拉格和纽约展出。他也为1992年的《异形3》和2012年的《普罗米修斯》(Prometheus)等其他电影设计过形象。他在瑞士设计的两个酒吧被人们比作孤独漂流的异星太空船。
Mr. Giger created many album covers as well, including one for the singer Debbie Harry’s 1981 album, “Koo Koo,” which pictures needles piercing her head and neck. In 1991 Rolling Stone magazine ranked it among the top 100 album covers. His vision of a human skull encased in a machine on the cover of Emerson, Lake & Palmer’s 1973 album, “Brain Salad Surgery,” is widely considered a classic.
吉格尔还设计过许多唱片封面，其中包括歌手黛比·哈里(Debbie Harry)1981年的专辑《Koo Koo》，图中长针刺穿她的头颅和脖颈。1991年，《滚石》(Rolling Stone)杂志将其列为百大最佳唱片封面之一。他画的一幅人类颅骨被框在机器中的图画成了“爱默生·雷克与帕尔默”(Emerson, Lake & Palmer)1973年的专辑《大脑沙拉手术》(Brain Salad Surgery)的封面，同样是许多人心目中的经典。
In the mid-1980s, Mr. Giger created a poster titled “Penis Landscape” for inclusion in an album by the punk band Dead Kennedys. After a 14-year-old girl bought the album for her 11-year-old brother, their parents filed an obscenity suit. It ended in a mistrial.
20世纪80年代中期，吉格尔创作了一幅海报，题为《阴茎景观》(Penis Landscape)，随朋克乐队“死肯尼迪”(Dead Kennedys)的一张专辑赠送。后来有一个14岁的女孩给11岁的弟弟买了这张专辑，他们的父母为此诉讼乐队传播淫秽物品。案件最后流审。
Hans Ruedi Giger was born on Feb. 5, 1940, in the southeastern Swiss town of Chur. Fascinated with things dark and strange, he regularly visited an Egyptian mummy and sarcophagus in a local museum.
汉斯·鲁迪·吉格尔(Hans Ruedi Giger)于1940年2月5日出生在瑞士东南部的彻尔镇。他迷恋阴暗奇异的事物，因此经常参观当地博物馆的埃及木乃伊与石棺。
“The places I liked most were the dark ones,” Mr. Giger told the Swiss Public Broadcasting Corporation. “As soon as I could dress myself I wore black.”
“我最喜欢阴暗的地方，”吉格尔在接受瑞士公共广播公司采访时说，“我一到能够自己决定衣着打扮的年纪，就开始穿黑衣服。”
His father urged Hans, who called himself a “horrible student,” to follow him into the pharmacy business. Instead he studied industrial design at the School of Applied Arts in Zurich.
汉斯说自己是个“糟糕的学生”，父亲敦促他像自己一样进入医药行业，但他却到苏黎世的艺术应用学院学了工业设计。
After working as an interior designer, he switched to art full time, starting with small ink drawings. He moved on to large airbrushed work on surrealistic themes inspired by Salvador Dalí, who became a friend.
做过一段室内设计师的工作之后，他开始全职从事艺术行业，先是画了一些小的墨水图，后来又改画大型喷漆图，有着超现实主义的主题，灵感来自萨尔瓦多·达利(Salvador Dalí)，后来他和达利成了朋友。
Mr. Giger’s early exhibitions were controversial for their depictions of death and sex. Galleries had to wipe the spit of disgusted neighbors from their windows.
吉格尔的早期展览因为表现死亡与性而引起争议。附近的住户对他的作品深恶痛绝，从窗口对画廊吐口水，画廊只得将它们擦去。
Mr. Giger’s relationship with the Swiss actress Li Tobler ended with her suicide in 1975. His subsequent marriage, to Mia Bonzanigo, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Carmen Scheifele-Giger.
吉格尔与瑞士女艺术家李·托布勒(Li Tobler)有过一段恋爱关系，直至她于1975年自杀身亡。他后来与米亚·邦扎尼格(Mia Bonzanig)的婚姻亦以离异告终。他现在的妻子卡门·舍菲勒-吉格尔(Carmen Scheifele-Giger)仍然在世。
Mr. Giger opened the Gruyères museum in 1998 in a 400-year-old building. It includes works by Dalí and other Surrealists and an adults-only room bathed in red light.
1998年，吉格尔在一栋拥有400年历史的建筑中为格吕耶尔的那家美术馆揭幕。馆中收藏了达利和其他超现实主义艺术家的作品，里面有一个只许成人入内的展馆，采用红色灯光。
Some but not all of his movie work is on display. In 2005 Gruyères ordered him to remove a model of the “Alien” monster from outside the museum, saying it was not good for the town’s image.
馆中还展览了他的一部分电影作品，但并非全部。2005年，格吕耶尔镇要求他把美术馆外陈列的一个《异形》怪物模型撤掉，说它有损小镇形象。