JAKARTA, Indonesia — Sitting near the bar at a trendy Jakarta restaurant, Bhian Saraswati, 24, said she was not afraid to eat her roast chicken and mashed potatoes.
印度尼西亚雅加达——一家时髦的雅加达餐厅里，24岁的比恩·萨拉斯瓦蒂(Bhian Saraswati)坐在吧台旁，她说，她不怕在这里吃烤鸡和土豆泥。
“I don’t have enemies,” she said. “I like to come here because I can have a smoke after lunch or when I have a cocktail.”
她说，“我没有仇人，我喜欢来这里，因为我可以在午饭后或喝鸡尾酒时抽根烟。”
At a nearby booth, Philip Lie, 27, sat with three friends who were visiting Indonesia from Sydney, Australia. He chose an iced cappuccino, rather than a Vietnamese iced coffee — the beverage that has intrigued visitors drawn here after a young woman drank it and died of cyanide poisoning.
附近的卡位里，27岁的菲利普·李(Philip Lie)和三位从澳大利亚悉尼前来印尼旅行的朋友坐在一起。他没有选越南冰咖啡，而是点了一杯冰卡布奇诺——自从一名年轻女子在这里喝了一杯越南冰咖啡并死于氰化物中毒后，这款饮料就吸引了许多人慕名而来。
The case of the “coffee murder,” as the local news media calls it, has set off morbid curiosity here in Jakarta and beyond.
这起事件被当地新闻媒体称为“咖啡谋杀”，已经在雅加达及其他地方引起病态的好奇心。
And it has brought robust business to Olivier, the restaurant where the young woman died in January. A friend and dining companion is a suspect.
事件还给奥利维亚(Olivier)餐厅带来了兴旺的生意，也就是那名年轻女子在1月出事的地方。同时用餐的一位朋友是嫌疑人。
“It’s like a tourist attraction,” said one waitress, speaking in hushed tones because the staff was under orders not to discuss the death.
“这就像一个旅游景点一样，”一名女服务员低声说道，因为工作人员接到命令，不得谈论这起死亡事件。
“Since it happened, business is booming,” another waitress said.
“自从那件事后，生意越来越红火，”另一名服务员说。
Guests frequently ask to sit in the booth where the woman sat. Some take selfies. The bar once ran out of the iced coffee she drank.
客人常常要求坐在那名女子曾坐过的卡位里。有人在那里自拍。她喝过的那款冰咖啡一度脱销。
“Everyone wants to taste that drink,” said Mr. Lie, who works at a machinery company here in the capital. “It’s the happening place right now.”
“每个人都想尝尝那款饮料，”在首都一家机械公司工作的李先生说，“它现在是一个热门去处。”
Olivier, which opened in the Grand Indonesia Mall in 2015, is decorated in a European style, with tiled floors, a dark wood bar and a glass ceiling and walls in the main dining room. The waiters wear ties and crisp white vests, and plants throughout the room give it a lush, tropical feel.
奥利维亚餐厅于2015年在印度尼西亚大商场(Grand Indonesia Mall)开业，装修成欧式风格，大厅地上铺了瓷砖，有深色木吧台、玻璃天花板和墙壁。服务员系着领带，身穿洁白的马甲，遍布整个房间的植物让餐厅有种葱郁的热带风情。
The restaurant attracts young urban professionals and hipsters and is often packed on weekends when the mall fills up. The menu offers a wide selection of teas and coffees, and a mix of Asian and European dishes like mussels in spicy lime leaf and coconut broth and spaghetti arrabbiata.
餐厅吸引了许多年轻的城市上班族和时髦人士，每当周末商场人多起来时，餐厅也会爆满。菜单上有着品种丰富的茶和咖啡，还提供多种亚洲菜系和欧式佳肴，如辣柠檬叶包裹的贻贝、椰子肉汤、香辣茄酱意大利面。
The victim, Wayan Mirna Salihin, met her friend Jessica Kumala Wongso in the late afternoon on Jan. 6. The women, both 27, had attended college together in Australia.
受害者名为瓦延·米尔娜·萨利赫因(Wayan Mirna Salihin)，1月6日傍晚时分，她与朋友杰西卡·库马拉·旺索(Jessica Kumala Wongso)见面。两人均为27岁，曾一起在澳大利亚读大学。
They were joined that day by a third friend, whom the Jakarta provincial police have identified only as Hani, and who remains a witness in the investigation.
那天和她们在一起的还有另一位朋友，雅加达地方警察只确定此人名为哈尼(Hani)，目前在调查中仍是一名目击者。
According to the police, Ms. Wongso arrived at the restaurant about an hour before Ms. Salihin and Ms. Hani, ordering drinks for herself and her companions. Ms. Salihin arrived, took a sip of her coffee and complained to her friends that it tasted strange.
根据警方的说法，旺索比萨利赫因和哈尼提早约一小时抵达餐厅，并为自己和同伴点了饮料。萨利赫因到达后喝了一口咖啡，向朋友们抱怨味道有些奇怪。
Within a minute, Ms. Salihin collapsed and went into convulsions. She was rushed to a hospital, where she died a few hours later.
不到一分钟时间，萨利赫因突然倒了下去，开始抽搐。她被送进了医院，几小时后在医院去世。
The police conducted an autopsy on Jan. 10, and investigators said the results showed that Ms. Salihin had died of cyanide poisoning.
警方于1月10日进行了尸检，调查人员称，结果显示萨利赫因死于氰化物中毒。
Ms. Wongso was arrested on Jan. 30. She is an official suspect but has not been charged, the police said.
旺索于1月30日被逮捕。警方称，她是正式的嫌疑人，但并未受到起诉。
The local news media has speculated that Ms. Wongso may have been in love with Ms. Salihin during their college days and that she was angry that Ms. Salihin had recently married her longtime boyfriend.
当地新闻媒体怀疑，旺索和萨利赫因在大学期间可能是一对恋人，旺索对萨利赫因近日与相恋已久的男友结婚一事非常生气。
Ms. Salihin’s father, Dermawan Salihin, said on a television show that there had been a sexually suggestive text message from Ms. Wongso to Ms. Salihin shortly before her death.
萨利赫因的父亲德马望·萨利赫因(Dermawan Salihin)在一次电视节目上说，在萨利赫因出事前不久，旺索曾给她发过一条性暗示短信。
Ms. Wongso’s defense team denies the allegation and has said that Ms. Wongso had not seen the victim for several years before they met for coffee in late December, and then again on Jan. 6. Her lawyers have accused the Indonesian police of trying her in the court of public opinion while neither producing evidence showing she had poisoned Ms. Salihin nor giving a motive.
旺索的辩护团队否认指控，并表示，在去年12月末两人相约喝咖啡之前，旺索已经有好几年没有见过受害者，之后的一次见面便是1月6日。她的律师指责印尼警方对她进行舆论审判，却拿不出证明她对萨利赫因投毒的证据，也无法解释动机。
On a recent day, patrons at Olivier debated who the murderer could be.
近日，奥利维亚的顾客就谁是可能凶手展开辩论。
Windy, 25, a bus driver who, like many Indonesians, uses only one name, was visiting the restaurant for the first time.
25岁的温迪(Windy)是一名公交司机，和许多印尼人一样只用单名，他是第一次光顾这家餐厅。