SEOUL, South Korea — In 1973, a newspaper advertisement in the South Korean city of Daejeon announced the arrival of “The Messenger From the Spiritual World,” a messiah who embodied the best of Buddhism, Christianity and other religions.
韩国首尔——1973年，韩国大田市的一则报纸广告宣告“来自精神世界的信使”降临，这是一位融合了佛教、基督教和其他宗教精髓的救星。
“Religious leaders of all beliefs, come and learn from him!” it read. “Those in distress or afflicted with incurable diseases, come and seek his counsel!”
“各种信仰的宗教领袖，来向他学习吧！”广告词中写道。“处在困境中或因无法治愈的疾病备受煎熬的人，来寻求他的建议吧！”
The Messenger was Won Ja-kyong, one of several aliases used by Choi Tae-min — a man who, more than 20 years after his death, is at the root of a scandal that has roiled this country and sent President Park Geun-hye’s approval rating to the lowest point of any modern South Korean leader, according to Gallup Korea. Tens of thousands of people marched in Seoul, the capital, on Saturday, demanding Park’s resignation.
这位信使是元子庆（Won Ja-kyong，音）——崔太敏(Choi Tae-min)使用的多个化名之一。去世20多年后，此人成为一起搅动整个韩国的丑闻的根源。据盖洛普韩国公司(Gallup Korea)统计，该事件使朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的支持率跌至最低点，低于韩国现代史上任何一位国家领导人。上周六，数万人走上首都首尔的街头，要求朴槿惠辞职。
The scandal’s primary figure is not Choi Tae-min but his daughter, Choi Soon-sil, who has inherited his role as a secretive adviser for the president. Last week, Choi Soon-sil was arrested and charged with using her influence with Park to extort large sums from Korean companies.
这桩丑闻的主角不是崔太敏，而是他的女儿崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)，后者继承父亲的角色，继续担任这位总统的秘密顾问。上周，崔顺实遭到逮捕，并被指控利用她对朴槿惠的影响力从多家韩国企业敲诈大笔资金。
Park has admitted letting Choi, who has no government job or background in policy, edit some of her speeches, and a cascade of news reports have alleged that Choi had considerable sway in the presidential Blue House and other government agencies.
朴槿惠承认自己曾让没有任何政府职位或政策背景的崔顺实修改她的一些演讲稿。接连出现的新闻报道称，崔顺实对总统的青瓦台及其他政府机构有相当大的影响力。
But what infuriates many South Koreans about the Choi affair is not merely that Park had a secret adviser, or even the possibility that the adviser turned a profit from the relationship. It is the notion that their president has been in thrall for decades to a family of religious charlatans — a shameful throwback, in their view, to ancient stories of Korean kings and queens brought to ruin by deceitful monks or fortunetelling shamans.
然而，让很多韩国人对崔顺实一事感到愤怒的，不只是朴槿惠有这样一位秘密顾问，甚至不在于这位顾问有可能凭这种关系获利，而是想到自己的总统几十年来一直在被一个宗教骗子家庭控制。在他们看来，这是令人感到羞耻的倒退，仿佛回到了古代朝鲜国王和王后被行骗的和尚和占卜的萨满引上毁灭之路的情形。
“I am so embarrassed that if a foreigner asks me where I am from, I feel like saying I am Chinese or Japanese,” Oh Yoo-jeong said at a recent anti-government rally in Seoul. “Until now, I had thought this kind of thing happened only in historical dramas on TV.”
“我觉得太丢人了。如果有外国人问我从哪儿来，我会想说我是中国人或日本人，”吴有正（Oh Yoo-jeong，音）在最近于首尔举行的一场反对政府的集会活动上说。“在此之前，我一直觉得这种事只会在电视上的历史剧里发生。”
Hand-held signs at demonstrations have read, “I’m ashamed to call this our country!”
示威者手举的标牌上写道，“没脸说这是我们的国家！”
There is no evidence that Choi has continued the colorful religious practices of her father — the founder of an obscure sect called the Church of Eternal Life — or that Park, who befriended both Chois in the 1970s, was ever his spiritual follower. Still, in protest rallies, on social media and even in newspaper editorials, Park is depicted as a puppet, manipulated while a young woman by Choi Tae-min and while president by his daughter.
没有证据显示崔顺实还在开展他父亲——一种被称为永生教的鲜为人知的教派的创始人——之前进行的丰富多样的宗教活动，也没有证据显示在上世纪70年代和崔氏父女成为朋友的朴槿惠曾是他的信徒。不过，在抗议集会活动、社交媒体乃至报纸的社论中，朴槿惠都被描绘成一个傀儡，在年轻时被崔太敏操纵，成为总统后则由崔的女儿掌控。
Rumors to that effect are rampant. After a cable news channel discovered that Choi Soon-sil had advised Park on what color to wear during an overseas trip, some suggested that she had based her choices on an astrological system. Others have raised the possibility that Choi inserted mystic symbolism into decorations at Park’s inauguration ceremony in 2013. Some people have gone so far as to call Choi a “sorcerer regent.”
类似的谣言疯狂传播开来。在一家有线电视频道发现崔顺实会就朴槿惠在海外访问期间穿什么颜色的衣服提供建议之后，一些人认为，朴槿惠是在按照一套占卜系统来做决定。其他人则提出这样一种可能性，即崔顺实曾给朴槿惠2013年的就职仪式注入神秘主义的元素。有些人甚至称崔顺实是“巫师摄政者”。
Today, there is no sign of the religious sect Choi Tae-min once operated, and Park and the Chois have denied practicing cultlike or shamanistic rituals. But Choi Soon-sil’s scandal has revived old rumors about her father, which in turn have reinforced speculation about Choi Soon-sil, in whom many people purport to see a new version of him.
崔太敏过去开展的宗教活动如今已见不到踪迹，朴槿惠和崔顺实也否认曾进行过类似邪教的活动或举行过萨满仪式。但崔顺实的丑闻让有关她父亲的昔日谣言重新复活，反过来强化了有关她本人的猜测。很多人声称在她身上看到了她父亲的影子。
Korea, a land frequently torn by wars and deprivations, has been a rich ground for fringe religious groups. When the ferry Sewol sank in 2014, killing more than 300 people, South Koreans were shocked to learn that the ship belonged to a cult leader.
屡受战争和贫困之苦的朝鲜半岛，是边缘宗教组织的福地。2014年，导致300人遇难的世越号渡轮沉没事件发生时，韩国人吃惊地发现，这艘船竟属于一名邪教教主。
Shamanism remains a strong force in the country, despite past governments’ attempts to discourage it. Thousands of its practitioners, known as mudang, still operate, almost all of them women who claim to be able to communicate with the dead. Most of their clients are also women.
过去几届政府一直在努力阻止萨满的传播，但它在这个国家依然有很大的影响力。仍有成千上万被称为“巫堂”的信徒在活动，他们几乎全部为女性，声称自己有通灵的能力。他们的主顾也大多为女性。
Because of this, when Choi Soon-sil is called a shaman — as she often is — some sense a faint misogyny at play. Some conservative politicians have criticized Park for entrusting state affairs to a mere “ajumma,” or housewife. Men joke that the scandal has dimmed the chances of South Korea’s having another female president.
正因如此，当人们称崔顺实为萨满时——她经常被这么称呼——其实是有一种轻微的女性歧视意味的。一些保守派政客指责朴槿惠将政务托付给一个“大婶”，或说家庭主妇。男人们开玩笑说，这桩丑闻降低了韩国出现另一名女性总统的几率。
“President Park and Ms. Choi made female leadership a matter of ridicule,” wrote Yang Sun-hee, a female editorial writer at the JoongAng Ilbo newspaper.
“朴槿惠总统和崔顺实使女性领导层成为被嘲笑的对象，”《韩国日报》(JoongAng Ilbo)的女社论撰稿人杨善熙（Yang Sun-hee，音）写道。
Even amid the anger over the Choi scandal, many are taking delight in it. After Choi lost a shoe during a media scrum this past week, the resulting headline was “The Shaman Wears Prada.” A running joke is that Park can do nothing without asking “Soon Siri,” a play on Choi’s name and the iPhone voice-command function.
尽管对崔顺实丑闻感到气愤，很多人都在从中找乐子。崔顺实上周在媒体见面会混乱中掉了一只鞋，结果头条新闻的标题叫做《穿普拉达的萨满》(The Shaman Wears Prada)。一个正在流传的笑话是，朴槿惠离开了“顺Siri”——崔的名字“顺实”和iPhone语音命令功能Siri的组合——就什么事也做不了。
Bloggers have also labeled her Soonderella, a mix of her name and Cinderella. But as the protests continue, the story seems unlikely to have a Cinderella ending.
博客作者还称她为“Soonderella”，意思是“顺实灰姑娘”。但是随着抗议的继续进行，这个故事似乎不太可能有灰姑娘的结局。
“From now on,” Park said Friday, “I will completely cut off any private relationships in my life.”
“从现在开始，”朴槿惠上周五说，“我将完全切断我生活中的任何私人关系。”