In his prepared testimony before Congress, James Comey says he spoke alone with President Barack Obama on just two occasions — once simply for Obama to say a brief goodbye. In contrast, he adds, “I can recall nine one-on-one conversations with President Trump in four months.”
在事先准备的国会证词中，詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)表示他和贝拉克·奥巴马总统(Barack Obama)只单独聊过两次——有一次只是因为奥巴马要简短地向他告别。他还讲到，相比之下，“我记得我和特朗普总统在四个月里有过九次一对一的谈话。”
These were profoundly uncomfortable and in some cases “very concerning” and highly irregular, recounts Comey, who was fired as F.B.I. director last month. After one conversation, he says, “I took the opportunity to implore the attorney general to prevent any future direct communication between the president and me.
据上月被解除联邦调查局(FBI)局长职位的科米讲，这些谈话让人极不舒服，有些还“让人非常不安”，极其反常。他表示，有一次谈话后，“我趁机恳请司法部长以后防止出现我和总统直接交流的情况。”
Trump sought a pledge of personal loyalty so as to turn the head of the F.B.I. into a political lackey. “I need loyalty,” Comey quotes Trump as telling him. “I expect loyalty.”
特朗普想获得科米对他个人忠诚的承诺，以便让这位联邦调查局局长成为一名政治仆从。“我需要忠诚，”科米援引特朗普跟他说过的话讲道。“我期待忠诚。”
“I didn’t move, speak or change my facial expression in any way during the awkward silence that followed,” Comey adds. “We simply looked at each other in silence.”
“在随之出现的尴尬的沉默中，我一动不动，没有说话，也没有任何表情变化，”科米继续还表示。“我们只是沉默地看着对方。”
Trump’s behavior is reminiscent of what tin-pot despots do. I know, for I’ve covered the overthrow of more than I can count.
特朗普的行为让人想起小国独裁者的所为。我知道这一点，因为我报道过的被推翻的独裁者多得连我自己都数不过来。
So let’s not get mired in legal technicalities. Whether or not it was illegal for Trump to urge Comey to back off his investigation into Russia ties to Mike Flynn, who was fired as national security adviser, it was utterly inappropriate. What comes through is a persistent effort by Trump to interfere with the legal system. There’s a consistent pattern: Trump’s contempt for the system of laws that, incredibly, he now presides over.
所以，不要再纠缠于法律技术层面的问题了。不管特朗普要求科米放弃对俄罗斯与迈克·弗林(Mike Flynn)关系的调查是否违法，它都是完全不恰当的——弗林已被解除国家安全顾问一职。这中间显露出来的，是特朗普持续干预司法制度的行动。其中有着一贯的模式：特朗普对执法体系心存藐视，但让人难以置信的是，这一体系现在却是由他管理。
All this is of course tied to Russia and its equally extraordinary attack on the American political system last year. The latest revelation is that Russian military intelligence executed a cyberattack on at least one supplier of American voting software and tried to compromise the computers of more than 100 local voting officials.
这一切当然与俄罗斯，及它去年对美国政治制度采取的同样非同寻常的攻击有关联。最新披露的信息显示，俄罗斯军事情报部门对至少一个美国投票软件供应商实施了网络袭击，还试图侵入100多个地方投票官员的电脑。
Comey specifies in his testimony, to be presented Thursday, that he told Trump that there was no personal investigation of him, but that this might change. Comey seems to have an open mind — a good lesson for all of us.
科米在将于周四提交的证词中详细指出，他曾告诉特朗普，联邦调查局没有针对他个人展开调查，但也表示这种情况有可能会改变。科米似乎持开放态度，这对我们所有人来说都是可以学习的。
To frame the Comey testimony, consider the staggering comments this week of James Clapper, the director of national intelligence until early this year.
要概括科米的证词，只需想想在今年初之前担任美国国家情报总监的詹姆斯·克拉珀(James Clapper)本周发出的让人震惊的言论。
“Watergate pales really, in my view, compared to what we’re confronting now,” said Clapper, a former lieutenant general with a long career in intelligence under Republican and Democratic presidents alike. He added: “I am very concerned about the assault on our institutions coming from both an external source — read Russia — and an internal source — the president himself.”
“在我看来，我们现在面临的问题真的比水门事件严重多了，”前陆军中将克拉珀说，他多年从事情报工作，在共和党总统和民主党总统的政府都效力过。他还说：“我对内外力量对我们的制度发起的袭击感到十分担忧，外是指俄罗斯，内则是总统本人。”
As Clapper suggested, Trump has been undermining the institutions and mores that undergird our political process; whether or not his conduct was felonious, it has been profoundly subversive.
就像克拉珀所表示的，特朗普一直在破坏这些制度，以及更多支撑我们的政治程序的东西；不管他的行为是否违法，那都是极具颠覆性的。
Apart from Comey and the Russia investigation, Trump has systematically attacked the institutions of American life that he sees as impediments. He denounced judges and the courts. He has attacked journalists as “the enemy of the people,” and urged that some be jailed for publishing classified information. He has publicly savaged Democrats and Republicans who stand up to him.
除了有关科米和俄罗斯调查的问题，特朗普也在有步骤地攻击被他视为障碍的美国制度的一些组成部分。他公然抨击法官和法院。他攻击记者，称他们是“人民公敌”，还敦促将一些公开机密信息的记者关进监狱。他公开地猛烈抨击敢于对抗他的民主党人和共和党人。
More broadly, Trump has ignored longstanding democratic norms, such as that a presidential candidate release tax returns and obey certain ethics rules. He flouts conventions against nepotism. And perhaps most fundamentally, he simply lies at every turn: Politicians often spin and exaggerate, they even lie in extremis to escape scandal. But Trump is different. He lies on autopilot, on something as banal as the size of inauguration crowds.
从更大的方面讲，特朗普无视长期存在的民主准则，比如，总统候选人要公开自己的纳税申报表，并服从特定的道德规则。他藐视反对任人唯亲的惯例。最根本的问题或许在于，他处处撒谎：政客经常粉饰和夸大，为摆脱丑闻，甚至在极端情况下撒谎。但特朗普不一样。他是随意撒谎，哪怕是在参加就职典礼的人群规模大小这么无关紧要的问题上。
Obama was meticulous about ethics rules. He consulted lawyers before accepting the Nobel Peace Prize; aides were forced to give up Twitter accounts when they left office, to ensure they had not benefited improperly by gaining followers.
奥巴马非常注重道德操守。在接受诺贝尔和平奖之前，他咨询了律师；助手们离职时则必须交出Twitter账号，以确保他们不会通过增长的粉丝不当获利。
In contrast, the Trump family seems indifferent to optics — and determined to monetize the presidency. The latest ugliness is in a devastating exposé by Forbes about charity work by Eric Trump to raise money for children with cancer.
相比之下，特朗普一家似乎对外界的眼光不以为意，决定将总统任期兑换成金钱利益。最新的丑闻出自《福布斯》(Forbes)杂志一篇令人震惊的报道，其中曝光了埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)在为癌症儿童募集资金这项慈善工作中存在的问题。
Eric raised some $16 million, which is wonderful. The Trump family had claimed to donate the use of its golf courses for these charity events, so that virtually all of the money raised was flowing to the sick children. Instead, Forbes says, the Trumps charged huge sums to hold the events — misleading the public, and profiting from donations intended for sick children.
埃里克筹集了约1600万美元资金——这是好事。特朗普家族称，他们把自家的高尔夫球场贡献出来举办了这些慈善活动，而筹集到的所有资金基本都用到了患儿身上。但据《福布斯》报道，特朗普一家为举办的这些活动收取了极其高昂的费用，从而误导公众，从给患儿的捐款中谋利。
Skimming money meant for kids with cancer? This is cartoonlike. (The family hasn’t responded in detail, although Eric did say that, to him, the critics are “not even people.” He lamented that “morality’s just gone.”)
从捐献给癌症儿童的资金中揩油？这简直不可思议。（特朗普一家还没有做出详细回应，不过埃里克表示，对他来说，那些批评者“根本不算人”。他还感叹“世风日下”。）
President Trump sought office as a law-and-order campaigner, and he is overseeing a crackdown on refugees, immigrants, drug offenders and other vulnerable people. But he is also systematically undermining the rule of law as “those wise restraints that make men free,” in the words of the late law professor John Maguire.
特朗普总统以一个强调法治与秩序的候选人形象参选，如今又在领导一场针对难民、移民、毒品吸食者及其他脆弱群体的打击行动。但他也在有步骤地破坏法治本身，而用法学教授约翰·马圭尔(John Maguire)的话来说，法治是“给人以自由的明智限制”。
So as we watch Comey testify, remember that the fundamental question is not just whether the president broke a particular law regarding obstruction of justice, but also whether he is systematically assaulting the rule of law that makes us free.
所以当我们看科米作证时，应该谨记根本的问题不只是总统是否违反了某条有关妨碍司法公正的法规，而是他是否在有步骤地攻击赋予我们自由的法治。