I’ve been writing about art professionally for more than 30 years, and I fell in love with language before I fell in love with art. Words ended up being my connection to art, and writing came first.
我已经写了30多年的艺术评论，不过，在爱上艺术之前，我先爱上了语言。词汇最终成为我与艺术联通的纽带，是写作最先打动了我。
I was lucky to come from a family of reciters and readers. My great-great-aunt Helen, probably born a decade or so after the Civil War, was in her late 70s, maybe 80s, when I was 8 or 9. She came from a poetry-memorizing Victorian culture and knew long passages of Tennyson’s “Idylls of the King” and Longfellow’s “Song of Hiawatha” by heart.
我很幸运，出身于一个拥有朗诵和阅读传统的家庭。我的太姑婆大概出生在美国南北战争结束10年后。在她70多岁或80多岁时，我正好八九岁。她成长在盛行诗歌背诵的维多利亚时代，无论是丁尼生(Tennyson)的《国王叙事诗》(Idylls of the King)，还是朗费罗(Longfellow)的《溪崖洼杉之歌》(Song of Hiawatha)，这些长篇诗作她都烂熟于心。
Whenever I visited, I asked her to “do ‘Hiawatha.’ ” To this day, I can still hear the rhythms and sounds of her delivery, particularly the way she enunciated Longfellow’s “Indian” names. They conjured up miraculous visual images, natural and supernatural: a woman descends from the moon to earth; a rainbow turns into a field of flowers; birds and forest animals speak.
每次去看她，我都请她“来段《溪崖洼杉之歌》吧”。直到现在，她朗诵的声音和节奏仍回荡在我耳边，特别是她朗诵到朗费罗诗中“印第安人”名字的吐字发音。这一切构成了一副神奇地视觉图像，自然的和超乎自然的东西：一个女人从月亮来到地球；一道彩虹化成花海；鸟儿和森林中的动物都开口说话。
Then there was reading, a lot. Typical scene: Four people — my young father and mother, my sister and I — in different parts of the house, glued to the page late into the night. Many books around, on shelves, on desks, on chairs, an environment I duplicate wherever I live.
然后，还有阅读，大量的阅读。我家典型的一幕就是：四个人——我年轻的父母、我姐姐还有我——在家里各居一处，抱着书读到深夜。到处都是书，书架上，桌子上，椅子上，这样的布局后来也被复制到我的居所里。
When my father’s medical practice kept him out in the evening, my mother turned dinner into a reading-out-loud hour, with poetry the bill of fare: Eugene Field, Robert Louis Stevenson, Edgar Allan Poe, H. D., Emily Dickinson.
在父亲的医生工作不允许他与我们共度傍晚时光的时候，母亲把晚餐变成了朗诵时间，以诗为食，“菜品”来自尤金·菲尔德(Eugene Field)、罗伯特·路易斯·史蒂文森(Robert Louis Stevenson)、埃德加·艾伦·坡(Edgar Allan Poe)、希尔达·杜利特尔（Hilda Doolittle，缩写H.D.），以及艾米莉·迪金森(Emily Dickinson)。
If you fall for Dickinson early, you’re committed to language for life, and almost unavoidably to Dickinson’s kind of language. It’s more concrete than just words on a page or in the air. It’s language as a physical material, a substance so concentrated that you can all but hold it in your hands, turn it over, feel its textures.
如果你很早就迷恋上迪金森，那么语言会陪伴你一生，而且你几乎无可避免地会以迪金森式语言为伴。这种语言比印在纸上或飘在空中的词汇更加有形；好似某种实实在在的材料，或是一种物质，如此凝缩，你仿佛可以把它抓在手里，翻来覆去，感受它的质感。
And it’s addictive. Once in your system, it’s impossible to shake, like a neurological imprint. In my experience, Longfellow’s intensely visual poetry was like a mural or a movie. You just wanted to stand back and let it happen to you. Dickinson’s language was visual, too, but in a startling, flashbulb way — a bang of illumination after which your vision took time to adjust to normal light.
而且它会让人上瘾。一旦进入了你的系统，它就像精神印记一般无法消除。就我个人体验而言，朗费罗高度视觉化的诗作就像壁画或电影。你只想站在一边静候诗歌把一切呈现在你眼前。迪金森的语言也是视觉化的，但如闪光灯一般，让人触目惊心——轰然闪现，之后要过一阵子，你才能重新适应正常光线。
Poetry, in general, made me sense that language could be about big, urgent subjects, the kind that ruffled even a 9-year-old mind. Will everyone I love always be here? If not, where, exactly, is heaven, and what does it look like? Perhaps most important to a writer in formation, Dickinson’s language felt personally usable. It made you want to write, made you think you could. So I did, just for the pleasure and power of creating pictures from words.
诗，总的来说，让我感受到语言可以用来描写宏大而紧迫的对象，那种甚至会飘过9岁少年心头的思绪。我爱的人们会永远在这里吗？如果不能的话，天堂，到底，又在哪里呢，是什么样子的呢？对于成长时期的作家而言，也许最重要的是，迪金森的语言用起来就像自己的语言。它让你想要写作，让你觉得你能写作。所以我就写了，仅仅是为了体会用语言构筑图画的乐趣和力量。
My guess is that some young artists begin consciously to make art under comparable circumstances. They see images — drawn, painted, whatever — that lead them to realize that the marks they produce themselves have a similar potential to shape a world. This is a feeling of expansion and freedom, and also very private. It’s a high.
我猜一些年轻的艺术家也是在类似的情况下开始有意识地进行艺术创作的。他们看到的图像——或是简单勾勒，或是浓墨重彩，不管怎样——使得他们意识到自己的信笔涂鸦也有可能塑造出一个世界。这是一种开阔而又自由的感觉，同时非常私密。这就是一种快感。
Early, the experience of seeing art was, in my life, on an almost parallel track with words. My parents were museumgoers. Because we lived just outside Boston, the Museum of Fine Arts was our home base. In the 1950s and early ’60s, museums were different institutions from today, uncrowded and quiet, like libraries. When I think back on that museum, I see beige and gray: gray walls, beige light. In a 1964 illustrated handbook to the collection, the pictures are almost all black and white. The cover, though jazzed up with modernist-style meandering pattern, is mostly a solid, recessive Wedgwood blue.
小时候，几乎是在感悟语言的同时，我也有了很多观赏艺术作品的经历。我父母经常逛博物馆。当时我们就住在波士顿市郊，所以波士顿美术馆(the Museum of Fine Arts)成了我家的大本营。上世纪50年代至60年代初期的博物馆和现在不一样，没有那么多参观者，非常安静，像图书馆一样。每当回想起那个美术馆，就看见米色和灰色：灰色是墙，米色是灯光。在该馆1964年出版的藏品图鉴里，图片几乎都是黑白的。封面虽然跳跃着现代主义风格的回纹图案但基本上仍是单一渐变的韦奇伍德(Wedgewood)蓝。
I spent a lot of time there from the age of about 9, mostly on Saturdays, mostly wandering around on my own. (My parents tended to use the museum as a surrogate nanny.) No one was telling me to look at this or at that, so I looked at whatever appealed. I loved the Japanese Buddhist hall because it was set up in the form of a circular temple, with a ring of life-size carved-wood Buddhas sitting in a kind of twilight. It was transporting. When you were there, you were someplace new.
从大约9岁起，我就在博物馆消磨时光，大部分是在周六，往往自己游逛。父母把博物馆当成代职保姆。没人告诉我要看这个，或看那个，全凭个人兴致游览。我非常喜欢日本佛像厅，因为整个展厅建的像个圆形庙宇，里面摆了一圈真人大小的木刻佛像，仿佛都端坐在暮光之中。这是一种穿越的感觉：你进入展厅，就进入了一个全新的世界。
Like any kid, I was interested in art that told stories, as a good amount of pre-modern art, especially painting, does. Some narratives were familiar, or obvious. Rogier van der Weyden’s 15th-century “St. Luke Painting the Virgin” depicted exactly the placid scene its title describes, but was set in an interior that looked airy, just-cleaned.
和所有的孩子一样，我感兴趣的都是会讲故事的艺术作品，就像大量前现代时期的作品，特别是绘画。有些作品展现的情节很熟悉，或很明显。像罗希尔·范德韦登(Rogier van der Weyden)15世纪的作品《圣卢克绘圣母像》(St. Luke Painting the Virgin)画如其名，展现了一派宁静景象，只不过画面里的背景设在了一个看似敞亮且刚刚打扫过的屋内。
There were adventure tales to be found in Egyptian funerary art and Renaissance paintings of martyrdoms, not to mention in John Singleton Copley’s bloodcurdling “Watson and the Shark,” with its flailing swimmer about to be chomped. But in almost every case, the drama, even when acute, was incomplete for me, because I had no background. I needed explanations. At some point, I started reading labels. Eventually, I started taking notes.
在埃及的殡葬艺术和以殉道为内容的文艺复兴画作中，都能找到冒险传说，就更别提约翰·辛格尔顿·科普利(John Singleton Copley)令人毛骨悚然的作品《沃森与鲨鱼》(Watson and the Shark)所展现的内容了，画中垂死挣扎的游泳者眼看就要被鲨鱼大口吞下。然而，几乎在这所有作品中，即便它展现了一个极其生动的场景，对我而言都是不完整的，因为我不了解背景。我需要更多解释。从某一刻起，我开始阅读标签。最后，我开始做笔记了。
There was art that was just plain fantastic, that combined the natural and the supernatural the way that Longfellow’s poetry did, but in wilder, grander ways. Giovanni Battista Tiepolo’s “Time Unveiling Truth” struck me this way, with its jumble of images: an old man sprouting wings, a pink nude woman, a sun with a face, a crazy red parrot and an avalanche of dark silk. I was gripped by the picture’s sense of sexy, statuesque significance, but also by the evidence of what virtuosic painting could do. Those clouds, those fabrics, that skin! I wanted more. I started reading Greek mythology. I bought a little Tiepolo book, my first art purchase.
有一些艺术作品，其精彩之处毋庸置疑，就如朗费罗的诗作一般，这些作品将自然和超自然元素融为一体，然而更狂放、更宏伟。乔凡尼·巴蒂斯塔·提埃坡罗(Giovanni Battista Tiepolo)的《时间揭示真相》(Time Unveiling Truth)就凭这种技法，用它混杂的画面打动了我：画面里有一个长出双翅的老年男子、一个皮肤粉嫩的裸体女性、一个长着人脸的太阳、一只疯狂的红鹦鹉和一袭倾泻而下的黑色丝绸。吸引我的不只是画中表现的性感和雕塑般的庄重感，还有那种技艺精湛画作才会显露的特质。那些云朵、那些肌理，那些皮肤！我想要知道更多。我开始阅读希腊神话。我买了一本提埃坡罗(Tiepolo)的小书，这是我第一次购买艺术相关的作品。
Despite my developing, changing tastes, though, the early art experience I remember most clearly as decisive, the convincer, was undramatic, happened outside a museum and involved a kind of art I didn’t at the time know or care much about. One of my teachers in grade school, no idea who, decided that art appreciation was a good idea and handed out packs of postcard-size reproductions of paintings. Of the several I shuffled through, I remember just one: Matisse’s 1913 “Blue Window.”
尽管我的品味持续发展，不断变化，但我记得最清楚的早期艺术体验，发挥了决定性作用的关键事件，却平淡无奇。它发生在博物馆之外，事关一种我彼时不那么了解，或者不那么在意的艺术。我小学时的一位老师，忘记了是谁，觉得让孩子们欣赏艺术是个好点子，于是发给我们一些明信片大小的名画复制品。我翻看的那几张中，记得的只有一张：马蒂斯(Matisse)1913年画的《蓝色的窗口》(Blue Window)。
Whatever I’d encountered at the museum, this was the strangest art I’d ever seen, because it seemed so empty and unfinished. No people, no story, paintwork like crayon drawing in a coloring book. The image was of a room, a little like a room at home, but spatially ambiguous, without dimension. There was a window, and outside it what looked like balloons tethered to a pole. I could tell this was meant to be a tree, and a white oval in the “sky,” a cloud.
无论我在博物馆中邂逅过什么，这都是我见过的最奇怪的画作，因为它显得如此空寥，似乎尚未完成。没有人物，没有故事，彷佛是蜡笔在填色本上着色而成。画中是一个房间，有点像家里的一个房间，但在空间上它是模糊的，没有纵深可言。画中有一扇窗户，窗外好像有一些气球拴到一根杆子上。我觉得那应该是一棵树，“天空”中有一个白色的椭圆形，那应该是云。
Inside, on a square, a tabletop — it could easily have been the floor — stood several objects. I name three: a vase of flowers, a plate with something on it and a lamp. But even the unidentifiable forms were empathically there, like some of Dickinson’s more difficult images: inscrutable but exact.
房间里面，一个方块应该是桌子的表面（也很像是地板），上面放着几样物品，我说得出三样：一个插着花的花瓶，一只装着些东西的盘子，以及一盏灯。但是，即使画中那些无法辨认的图形只可意会，就像迪金森的某些更难辨别的图画：难以捉摸但又清清楚楚。
The more I looked at the picture, the better I liked it. I liked what I saw as its modesty, its tentativeness and its otherworldliness. (Heaven was blue, wasn’t it?) I liked that it was furnished with the idea of things, rather than actual things. I liked its semi-emptiness. I liked that it had stories not yet told. There was room for a writer-to-be in there.
这幅画我看得越久，就越喜欢。我喜欢它的矜持、迟疑、离尘出世。（天堂是蓝色的，不是吗？）我喜欢它表现东西的概念，而不是真实的东西。我喜欢它半空半虚。我喜欢它尚有故事未曾讲诉。有足够的想象空间留给一位未来的作家。