THE CHEF was late.
主厨迟到了。
All 10 of the black-leather-and-chrome swivel seats, the same kind you’d perch on to play the slots at the Venetian in Las Vegas, were taken. Most of us had reserved a month before. Now we found ourselves sitting in the small, bright, glossy, black-and-white front room of the restaurant, which opened in August in the West Village. It looked about as Japanese as Peter Luger. Servers in black suits were offering hot towels, water and drinks, and more water, and then small talk, until it became clear that they were stalling. Were they going to let us eat?
这里的黑色皮质金属转椅与拉斯维加斯的威尼斯人酒店(Venetian)里老虎机旁的椅子类似。10个座位都满了，大多是提前一个月预订的。这家位于曼哈顿西村的餐馆是去年8月开业的，现在我们才终于坐进亮堂而精致的小巧门店里。店内色调以黑白为主，外表看来，它的日本气息少得堪比彼特·鲁格牛排馆(Peter Luger)。身着黑色套装的侍应生给食客递上了热毛巾和酒水，后来又斟了一轮水，接着闲聊了一番。最后事情变得明朗起来：他们在拖延时间。到底让不让我们吃？
Finally, Daisuke Nakazawa walked in the front door. “I’m sorry,” the chef said cheerfully as he slid behind the counter and prepared for work. He had just come back from Pier 76, he said. The police had towed his car.
终于，中泽大祐(Daisuke Nakazawa)走进了前门。“很抱歉，”这位主厨一边精神饱满地说着，一边爽利去到料理台后做准备工作。他说自己刚从76号码头回来。警察把他的车拖到了那里。
Then he picked up a palmful of rice and began to serve one of the four most enjoyable and eye-opening sushi meals I have ever eaten. I had the other three at Sushi Nakazawa over the next few weeks.
然后，他手上抓起一把米饭，开始制作令人陶醉而又眼界大开的寿司，这一餐在我品尝寿司的体验中排名前四。另外三次，也是接下来几周里我在这家中泽寿司(Sushi Nakazawa)感受到的。
The moment-to-moment joys of eating one mouthful of sushi after another can merge into a blur of fish bliss. But almost everything Mr. Nakazawa cups in his hands and places in front of you is an event on its own. A piece of his sushi grabs control of your senses, and when it’s gone, you wish you could have it again. These little events carve themselves into your memory. So does the meal, 21 pieces or so over about two hours.
一枚接一枚的寿司送到嘴里的阵阵愉悦，融汇成了关于鲜鱼的朦胧美味。可是，中泽用双手捏成并递到你面前的几乎每样东西，都自成一派。一枚寿司抓住了你的味觉，当它消失的时候，你会总渴望再次拥有。这些小小的片段会在你的记忆中刻下印迹，就像这次由大概21道寿司构成的两小时大餐一样。
I remember precisely the dull luster of Mr. Nakazawa’s mackerel and the way its initial firmness gave way to a minor-key note of pickled fish and a major-key richness that kept building the longer I chewed. I can feel the warmth of just-poached blue shrimp from the South Pacific islands of New Caledonia, which had a flavor that was deep, clean and delicate at the same time. I can tell you about the burning-leaf smell of skipjack smoked over smoldering hay until it becomes a softer, aquatic version of aged Italian speck.
我清晰地记得，中泽制作的鲭鱼泛着哑光，最初的紧实口感逐渐让位于醋鱼的小调，而后是咀嚼愈久就愈加丰富的主调。我能感受到从南太平洋岛屿新喀里多尼亚新鲜捕获的蓝虾的温度。它的味道兼具深邃、清爽与细腻。我能说出鲣鱼在闷燃的稻草上熏制后残留的枯叶味，它熏后的口感，仿佛一种产自水中的陈年意大利火腿，只是味道更为柔和。
We don’t normally think of one sushi piece as wildly different from the next, apart from the inherent qualities of the main ingredient. But one of the points made by the 2011 documentary “Jiro Dreams of Sushi” was that a driven, obsessed chef will treat each sea creature as a unique challenge. He’ll ask, how can I make the best piece of horse mackerel anyone has ever tasted? When Jiro Ono dreamed of sushi, what he saw were new dishes waiting to be invented.
通常，我们不会认为，除了主料的内在特质之外，这一枚寿司与那一枚有什么巨大的差异。然而，正如2011年的纪录片《寿司之神》(Jiro Dreams of Sushi)中呈现的一个观点，每位进取而执着的大厨都会将各个海洋生物视为独特的挑战。他会思忖，怎么才能做出史上最棒的竹荚鱼呢？当小野二郎(Jiro Ono)梦见寿司的时候，他看到的是等待被发明出来的新菜品。
In the movie, Mr. Nakazawa was the young apprentice who cried when Mr. Ono conceded that he had finally made an acceptable egg custard. With his shaved scalp, bowed head, downturned eyes and meek acceptance of Mr. Ono’s criticisms, he gave the impression of a novice Zen monk who was accustomed to abuse in the name of enlightenment. (He also gave you the idea that Jiro could be kind of a pill.)
在这部电影中，中泽还是年轻的学徒。小野终于承认，他做出了可以接受的玉子烧时，他哭了出来。他剃了光头、脑袋低垂、目光向下，顺从地接受小野的责骂，让人产生的印象是，一名小僧为了求得顿悟而甘愿承受粗暴对待。（他的片段还让人感觉，师从小野或许是件苦差事。）
Mr. Nakazawa must have learned something, because his fish often tastes as if it has been coaxed along until it’s as delicious as it’s ever going to get. Each slice has a slightly different temperature, affecting flavor and texture, whether it spreads on your tongue or stays firm and chewy. All good sushi chefs do this, but Mr. Nakazawa seems to be able to hit any point on the thermometer with an assassin’s aim, locating a temperature for yellowtail belly that makes its buttery richness into a time-release pleasure bomb.
中泽想必是得了真传，因为他制作的鱼生往往好似被精心摆弄了良久，直到抵达美味的极致。每一片都有其微妙的独特温度，影响着口感与质地，无论是伸展在舌尖之上，还是保持着紧实的嚼劲。所有优秀的寿司大厨都能做到这一点，但中泽似乎能以刺客的精准，找到温度计上的任何一个刻度，鰤鱼肚的温度恰到好处，能让它黄油般的丰富口感幻化为缓慢释放的愉悦冲击。
He gets other effects by skipping the standard wasabi smear. He dabs Japanese mustard under medium-fatty tuna and the hay-smoked skipjack, bringing out its bloody-lip tang. Yuzukosho, a paste of bright yuzu peel and burning chiles, bites playfully into the cool sweetness of a sea scallop lopped from its shell just a minute before it’s served, its edges still fluttering. That scallop dish is distinctively his, and once you’ve had it you’d know it anywhere.
他打破了蘸取芥末的常规方式，带了别样的效果。芥末抹在肥美程度适中的金枪鱼与烟熏鲣鱼的背面，带出唇舌生火的强烈冲击。由鲜亮的柚子皮和辣椒制作的柚子胡椒酱，与贝柱的冷甜口感揉在一起，相映成趣。贝柱是上桌前一分钟刚从海产扇贝里挖出来的，边缘还在抖动。这道扇贝出自中泽的独门手艺，一旦品尝，走到哪里都忘不掉。
Not everything I ate was in that category, and not everything is the best in town. The eel and octopus at 15 East are still undefeated, and possibly the rice, too, although Mr. Nakazawa’s has a wonderfully rich, rounded flavor. The $450 menu at Masa may glide to a higher pitch of pleasure, but the most striking dishes arrive before the sushi starts. No restaurant in town does as much with sushi, and sushi alone, as Nakazawa.
并非每道菜都那么精彩，也不是每样东西都能在城中夺魁。东15街餐厅(15 East)的鳗鱼和章鱼仍然无可匹敌，醋饭或许也是。不过中泽的米有一种非常丰富圆润的口感。雅(Masa)推出的450美元套餐大概会带来更为高雅的愉悦感，但那里最惊艳的菜品并不是寿司。在纽约，其他任何餐厅的寿司都比不上中泽，而且也不会像中泽这样专攻寿司。
Behind the counter of Sushi Nakazawa, the chef is nothing like the movie’s humble stepchild. He laughs, he jokes, he handles live animals. One evening he held out a tray of sea urchins, their spikes groping the air, and asked each of us to choose one. The tiger shrimp he set down on white plates another night had more energy. With a flick of its tail one jumped up in front of a woman at the counter’s end. She jumped even higher. Another customer, more game, picked up the shrimp just above its wriggling legs, pointed toward his mouth in pantomime (Mr. Nakazawa is learning English), and asked the chef, “What is the best way?”
中泽寿司料理台后的主厨已然脱胎换骨，谈笑间处理活物，与电影里那个谦恭的继子截然不同。一天傍晚，他端出满满一盘浑身是刺的海胆，让我们每人挑选一只。另一晚，他摆在白盘上的草虾活跃多了。尾部一弹，虾就在料理台一端的食客面前蹦了起来，那位就餐的女士则蹦得更高。一名更顽皮的食客，从扭动的虾腿稍稍往上的位置抓起来，夸张地指向自己的嘴巴（中泽还在学习英文），问大厨，“怎么吃最好？”
The best way is to wait until Mr. Nakazawa yanks off its head, strips its shell and drapes the raw shrimp over a cushion of rice. Everything is gently pressed over rice, in the two-century-old Edo style of sushi that Mr. Nakazawa respects and refines. Sashimi is not served, and there are no hot dishes from the kitchen.
最好的吃法是等待中泽拽掉生虾的头、剥去虾壳，最后再铺到醋饭上。所有食材都要轻按在醋饭上，这是传承两百年的江户前寿司手法，中泽对这种手法十分敬仰，并做出了改良。这里不提供刺身，厨房里也没有热菜。
Sushi Nakazawa operates more like a tasting-menu restaurant than most Japanese sushi places. Mr. Nakazawa does not take requests until the very end, when he offers to sell you a second taste of anything. He does work around dietary restrictions, though. (He also notices who’s left-handed, and sets their sushi down with the ends pointing at 8 o’clock and 2 o’clock so it’s easier to pick up with the fingers.)
比起多数日本寿司店，中泽寿司更像是家尝鲜餐厅。到了餐末，中泽会提出，是否需要再次品尝任何菜品，此时他才会听从食客的要求。不过，如果你有忌口，他也会遵命变通。（他还会关注谁惯用左手，在他们面前摆放寿司时，让两端分别朝向8点钟和2点钟的方向，方便他们用手指拿捏。）
There are three seatings a night at the counter. Reservations there can be made only for parties of two, which is needlessly unaccommodating; sushi counter dining is one of Japan’s great gifts to solo diners, and I can’t imagine Sushi Nakazawa would have trouble filling the slots. Reservations for the 25 seats in the back are more flexible, with staggered times and a discounted price, $120 instead of $150 at the counter. You can’t see the show from the cheap seats, and the room, while perfectly comfortable, will not be appearing in any interior-design magazines. But the sushi is rushed to the tables while the rice is still warm, which is crucial, and the dining room is the place to sit if you want to have a conversation without interruptions from jumping shrimp.
料理台上每晚有三个空位接受预订，只能是两人预订。完全没必要这么刻板，毕竟在料理台吃寿司是日本献给独食客的一份大礼，何况中泽寿司想要填满空位也不会有任何麻烦。后方的25个座位预订起来就更为灵活一些，时间可以错开，价格也有折扣。料理台上是150美元（约合910元人民币），后方则为120美元。稍便宜的位子看不到中泽的表演，而且大堂里虽说极为舒适，倒也不足以在任何一家室内设计杂志上露面。寿司会趁着醋饭还温热时赶着端上桌，这对口感至关重要。倘若想要专注地交谈，而不被活蹦乱跳的草虾分心，也最好坐在大堂里。
Interruptions from Rick Zouad, the sommelier, are welcome, though. I am skeptical of pairings with tasting menus, but Mr. Zouad’s choices flattered each style of sake, and the price, $40 for six or seven glasses, is almost a gift. There are some very tempting half-bottles of Champagne from Chartogne-Taillet and other small producers or, for $12, about 15 percent of the price of the Champagnes, a 17-ounce Japanese lager brewed by Echigo from sushi rice that hits the reset button as effectively as pickled ginger.
侍酒师里克·扎瓦德(Rick Zouad)的出现并不算打扰。我对尝鲜套餐上的搭配心存疑虑，不过扎瓦德的推荐能彰显出每款清酒的特色，六七杯清酒共40美元的价格无异于赠送。还有一些来自夏尔多涅-泰耶酒庄(Chartogne-Taillet)等地的相当诱人的半瓶香槟。或者，花12美元，也就是香槟价格的15%左右，来17盎司（500毫升）的日式拉格啤酒，这种酒是越后啤酒厂(Echigo)以大米酿造的淡啤，与甘酢生姜一样能瞬间提神醒脑。
Sushi Nakazawa is owned by Alessandro Borgognone, whose other restaurant is Patricia’s, his family’s place in the Bronx. At home one night, Mr. Borgognone watched “Jiro Dreams of Sushi” and announced that he was going to bring one of the chefs to New York. His wife, reasonably, said no, you’re not. Luckily, he ignored her, and eventually found Mr. Nakazawa working in Seattle for another former apprentice of Mr. Ono’s.
中泽寿司的店主是亚历山德罗·博尔戈尼奥内(Alessandro Borgognone)。他还在布朗克斯的家中开着一家名叫帕特里夏(Patricia’s)的餐厅。一天晚上，博尔戈尼奥内在家里看了《寿司之神》，于是宣告自己要把片中的某位师傅请来纽约。当然了，他的妻子说不行，你办不到。幸运的是，他没有听她的话，最终找到了在西雅图为小野二郎的另一名徒弟打工的中泽大祐。
The trip from the Bronx to the West Village is probably easier to make than the trip from “spaghetti Frank Sinatra” to raw triggerfish under a squiggle of its own liver. Every once in a while, the distance tells. Mr. Borgognone has been bringing in sorbets made by his father at Patricia’s. The gesture is lovely, but superfluous. The egg custard Mr. Nakazawa cried over, made with mountain yam and shrimp, is the final, transporting piece of sushi. It hovers over the border between pudding and cake, and it tastes like an ending.
从布朗克斯到西村的地理迁移，大概要比从“弗兰克·辛纳屈(Frank Sinatra)的意大利面”到带鱼肝的丝背细鳞鲀之间的跨越要来得容易。时不时地，这种距离会彰显出来。博尔戈尼奥内会把父亲在帕特里夏餐厅准备的雪糕拿来中泽寿司。这种做法颇为可爱，却稍嫌多余。最后一道寿司是中泽曾为之挥泪的玉子烧，其中加入了山药和虾，激荡人心。它既像布丁，又像蛋糕，吃到嘴里正是一出完美的谢幕。
Welcome to New York, Mr. Nakazawa. It’s a nice town for a great sushi chef. Please read those parking signs carefully, though.
欢迎来到纽约，中泽桑。这里对伟大的寿司师傅青睐有加。不过，记得要仔细阅读停车标志牌呀！