BERLIN —Even normally quiet streets were electrified early Monday by Germany’s dramatic 1-0 win of the World Cup in extra time, a victory that symbolized, at least to fans, not just the country’s dominance of Europe, but its global prominence. Car horns and vuvuzelas honked, and fireworks and firecrackers exploded.
柏林——就连平日安静的街道也在周一的大早充满了激情，人们为德国在加时赛中以1比0赢得本届世界杯的精彩表现而振奋，这一胜利不仅体现了德国在欧洲的主导地位，也是其全球重要地位的象征，至少在粉丝眼里是这样。街上汽车喇叭声和呜呜祖拉声不断，还不时有烟花爆竹爆炸。
On the Kurfuerstendamm, the gleaming street of stores and restaurants that was the symbol of West Berlin during the Cold War, cars quickly jammed traffic and fans draped themselves in the black, red and gold of the German flag.
在冷战期间西柏林的象征、两边都是耀眼商店和餐馆的库坦大街(Kurfuerstendamm)上，小汽车很快阻塞了交通，粉丝们身上披着德国黑红金的三色国旗。
“I am the happiest man alive,” said Jacob Vogely, 25, who was just a baby when the Berlin Wall fell and produced similar jams in probably the greatest party this city has ever seen.
“我是最快乐的人，”25岁的雅各布·沃格理(Jacob Vogely)说，柏林墙倒塌时，他还是个婴儿，在那次也许是这座城市有史以来最大的一次盛会中，也发生了类似的交通阻塞。
Sam Schöneberg, also 25, called the final a “heart attack,” given the six or seven minutes the whole country seemed to hold its breath after Mario Götze scored the decisive goal.
同是25岁的山姆·舍讷贝格(Sam Schöneberg)把决赛称为一次“心脏病发作”，因为在马里奥·格策(Mario Götze)射出了决定性的进球后，整个国家似乎屏住呼吸达6、7分钟。 
Mr. Götze had not even been born the last time Germany won the World Cup, in 1990, beating Argentina then, too.
德国上次在1990年赢得世界杯时，格策甚至还未出生，那次也是击败了阿根廷。
That victory came to symbolize the unification of Germany; this one, ardent fans said early Monday, will usher in an era of further prosperity for Europe’s economic powerhouse.
那次胜利成为德国统一的象征；充满激情的粉丝们周一早上说，此次胜利将为这个欧洲经济强国迎来进一步繁荣的时代。
“I’m not going to be able to get rid of this grin,” said Christoph Nitsche, 29, an industrial mechanic, as he stood outside a tapas bar in Frankfurt that, like almost all restaurants and bars across the country, had set up a large-screen television outside. “Now we’re free.”
“我真是放不下我的笑脸，”29岁的工业机械师克里斯托弗·尼切(Christoph Nitsche)说，他正站在法兰克福的一家小吃店外，和全国各地的餐馆和酒吧一样，这家小吃店在店外设置了一台大屏幕电视机。“现在我们自由了。”
Asked if the victory had any larger consequences for Germany, Mr. Nitsche took a drag on a cigarette, thought for a moment, and said: “There’s going to be an economic upswing. People are in a good mood.”
当被问及这次胜利是否能给德国带来更深远的后果时，尼切吸了一口烟，想了片刻后说：“将会出现经济上升。人们的心情很好。”
That mood was reflected in the evident joy with which the country’s president, Joachim Gauck, and the normally restrained chancellor, Angela Merkel, embraced each player in Rio de Janeiro as they received their victors’ medals.
好心情在德国总统约阿希姆·高克(Joachim Gauck)和通常矜持的总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)身上也有表现，他们以显而易见的喜悦拥抱了在里约热内卢接受奖牌的每一位队员。
The German victory could easily be seen as emblematic of the country’s economic and political pre-eminence in Europe and its economic comeback of the last decade. In 1990, the nation was embarking on a long, costly odyssey of reunification.
德国的胜利能很容易被人看作是该国在欧洲经济和政治上主导地位的象征，也是其经济在过去十年东山再起的象征。1990年，德国踏上了长期且艰难的统一历程。
In 2002, when the German team finished second, the country was still seen as the sick man of Europe, too set in its ways in a world that demanded innovation.
德国在2002年的世界杯赛上获得亚军时，仍被人看作是一个欧洲病夫，在一个需要创新的世界上，仍在墨守成规。
But Germany proved it could change.
然而，德国证明了自己能够改变。
The rebound of the German economy came after a national overhaul that reduced barriers to hiring and firing and obstacles for entrepreneurs.
在进行了全国改革以降低企业在雇佣和解雇员工上面临的障碍后，德国经济开始复苏。
At the same time, a revitalization of the German youth soccer development program helped produce the team that beat Argentina on Sunday night.
与此同时，一项振兴德国青年足球的发展计划帮助产生了在周日晚击败了阿根廷的球队。
By contrast, the biggest losers in Brazil included European countries that have struggled to revive their own economies, as Germany did.
与此成为对比的，是在巴西输了球的其他欧洲国家，他们也曾象德国那样，企图努力振兴本国经济。
This German team reflected a society that has become more diverse and tolerant, albeit with limits.
这次德国队的组成反映了尽管仍有限，但已经变得更加多样化和包容的社会。
This squad was much more ethnically diverse than the all-white 1990 champions. The German team in Brazil included defender Jérome Boateng, with roots in Ghana, and Sami Khedira, whose father was Tunisian.
这次的球队比1990年赢得世界杯的全白人球队有更高的民族多样性。出战巴西的德国队包括后卫杰罗姆·博阿滕(Jérome Boateng)和萨米·赫迪拉(Sami Khedira)，博阿滕祖籍加纳，赫迪拉的父亲是突尼斯人。