This is turning out to be a very good season for domestic films in China.“Monster Hunt,” a live-action/animated movie about a little monster resembling a white radish, has become the highest-grossing Chinese film of all time, taking in more than 1.6 billion renminbi, or about $268 million, since its opening July 16, according to the research organization EntGroup.
对于中国国产电影来说，这个夏季形势大好。真人动画电影《捉妖记》讲述了一个外形类似白萝卜的小妖怪的故事，成为了有史以来票房最高的国产电影。研究机构艺恩咨询(Entgroup)的数据显示，它自从7月16日上映以来，票房已经突破16亿元人民币。
The movie has seized one local title after another: highest opening-day and opening-weekend sales; and shortest time — just eight days — for a Chinese film to gross 1 billion renminbi ($169 million). Industry analysts are predicting that “Monster Hunt” could be the first domestic movie to overtake Hollywood hits like “Furious 7” (2.5 billion renminbi, or $411 million) and “Transformers 4: Age of Extinction” (1.978 billion renminbi, or $330 million), the current box-office record-holders in China, according to Tencent Entertainment.
《捉妖记》先后打破了国产电影的多项记录：最高上映日票房、最高上映周末票房；最短时间——仅仅8天——总票房破10亿。据腾讯娱乐报道，业内分析师预测，《捉妖记》可能会成为第一部票房超过好莱坞大片《速度与激情7》（Furious 7，票房25亿元人民币）和《变形金刚4：绝迹重生》（Transformers 4: Age of Extinction，票房19.78亿元）的国产电影。好莱坞大片目前保持着中国票房的最高纪录。
The film’s achievements come during China’s “domestic film protection period,” the summer weeks when foreign films are largely blocked from Chinese theaters as a government measure to support the local industry. Still, some Chinese critics say the success of “Monster Hunt” and several other films this season owes a good deal to their own strengths in appealing to viewers in the world’s second-largest film market.
《捉妖记》的这种成绩，是在中国“国产电影保护期”内取得的。这是政府支持本土产业的一项措施，指在夏季的数周时间里，中国影院很少放映外国电影。尽管如此，一些中国评论人表示，《捉妖记》以及其他几部影片在今年夏天取得的成绩，归功于它们在全球第二大电影市场，吸引观众的自身优势。
“Monster Hunt” is set in a mythical ancient world where humans and monsters have long been in conflict. Improbably, a human, Tianyin, finds himself “pregnant” with Huba, heir to the monster throne. They end up joining forces, trying to avoid being hunted down while reconciling the two sides.
《捉妖记》的故事设定是在一个古老的神话世界里，人类和妖类之间存在长期冲突。人类天荫发现自己违背常理地“孕育”了妖类王位的继承者胡巴。为了躲避追杀，并让两方化干戈为玉帛，天荫和胡巴进行了合作。
“The movie is full of emotion and fun to watch,” wrote the online movie critic Yiren on Mtime. “Audiences finally are seeing a cute little monster, the kind you want to hold and hug.”
“故事走向变成了喜剧与温馨路线，”网络影评人邑人在时光网上写道。“我们最终看到了一个萌哒哒的小妖怪，而且是那种捧在怀中恨不得融化了的那种。”
The film’s director, Raman Hui, who co-directed “Shrek the Third,” says his only goal was to “tailor-make a family-fun animation just for Chinese audiences.”
该片导演许诚毅(Raman Hui)曾共同执导过《怪物史瑞克3》(Shrek the Third)，他说自己唯一的目标就是要“为中国观众度身定制一部全家同乐的动画片”。
“I never dreamed the movie would have such a huge reaction,” the Hong Kong native said in an interview. “It doesn’t have to top anything. I’m very happy that it broke even.”
“我做梦也没有想到，这部电影会获得如此巨大的反响，”这位生于香港的导演在接受采访时说。“它不需要破什么记录。能够不赚不赔我就很高兴了。”
Box-office sales in China for all movies have soared over the past two weekends. The State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, which oversees the film industry, said that box-office sales hit a one-day record on July 18 of 400 million renminbi, or $64.4 million, China Daily reported. Close behind “Monster Hunt” in ticket sales is the superhero comedy “Pancake Man,” which features an appearance by Jean-Claude Van Damme, followed by the animation film “Monkey King.”
在中国，所有电影的票房在过去两周的周末都大幅上涨。《中国日报》报道，负责监督电影行业的国家新闻出版广电总局表示，7月18日的电影票房达到4亿元人民币，创下单日最高票房纪录。票房仅次于《捉妖记》的是尚格·云顿(Jean-Claude Van Damme)出演的超级英雄喜剧《煎饼侠》，接下来就是动画电影《西游记之大圣归来》。
“Unlike previous years, this year’s summer hits are competing head-to-head. ‘Monster Hunt,’ ‘Pancake Man’ and ‘Monkey King’ are each achieving high standards in their respective categories, helping domestic movies gain a stronger foothold in the market in terms of critical acclaim and earnings,” said a statement on the administration’s website.
该部门在其网站发表声明称，“与往年相比，今年暑期档影片呈现出齐头并进的态势，同期上映的国产影片《捉妖记》、《煎饼侠》、《大圣归来》等既在观赏性和艺术性上表现出较高水准，又在类型上实现区别化，从而取得了口碑和票房的双丰收，也助推国产影片在市场占有率上持续反超。”
The Chinese government has worked to promote domestic films for years, in part through the summer restrictions on foreign films. Of 43 films in mainstream theatrical release in China this week, only three are foreign made, including “The Imitation Game,” about the British code-breaker Alan Turing.Zhixi Chen, the producer of “Pancake Man,” predicted that the government favors for domestic films were only temporary measures as the industry gets its bearings. “The protection month will slowly disappear,” she said in an interview. “We’re not guaranteed to lose when facing a Hollywood competitor head-on. We just can’t afford to be drowning in Hollywood films.”
中国政府多年来努力推广国产影片，部分手段是在暑期档对外国电影加以限制。本周中国主流影院上映了43部影片，其中只有三部外国电影，比如讲述英国密码学家艾伦·图灵(Alan Turing)的故事的《模仿游戏》(The Imitation Game)。《煎饼侠》制片人陈祉希预测称，政府支持国产电影只是暂时的举措。随着电影业找准自己的方向，“保护月会慢慢消失，”她接受采访时说。“当直面好莱坞竞争对手的时候，我们不一定会输。我们只是无法承受被好莱坞电影淹没的后果。”
One issue is how these films, however successful at home, would fare with international audiences. On July 24, “Pancake Man” opened in 10 cities in North America and Australia and earned $320,000 in its first three days, according to Ms. Chen. “Monster Hunt” has been released in Singapore and Malaysia. No plans for foreign release have been announced for “Monkey King.”
有一个问题是，尽管这些电影在国内取得成功，但是外国观众是否会买账呢？据陈祉希透露，《煎饼侠》于7月24日在北美和澳大利亚的10个城市上映，前三天的票房达到32万美元。《捉妖记》在新加坡和马来西亚上映。目前制片方还没有宣布在外国上映《西游记之大圣归来》的计划。
Given the scale of the Chinese movie market, however, Ms. Chen said that most producers would be better off focusing on elements that appeal to the home audience.
但陈祉希表示，鉴于中国电影市场的规模，大多数制片人最好去关注那些能够吸引国内观众的元素。