Natasha Gadinsky, 23, says she doesn’t have any regrets from her years in college. But the time she hooked up with a guy at Brown University does come close.
23岁的娜塔莎·伽汀斯基(Natasha Gadinsky)说，她对大学时光没有一点遗憾。不过，她在布朗大学(Brown University)跟一个男子勾搭那次差不多够上遗憾了。
After his own orgasm that night, she said, he showed no interest in her satisfaction. The next time they got together, it happened again. He “didn’t even care,” said Ms. Gadinsky, a health care case manager in New York City, “I don’t think he tried at all.” He fell asleep immediately, leaving her staring at the ceiling. “I was really frustrated,” she said.
她说，那个夜里他自己达到性高潮后，对她是否得到满足毫无兴趣。他们第二次在一起时还是那样。伽汀斯基如今在纽约市做医疗保健病例经理，她说，他“一点也不关心。我觉得他根本就没想试试”。他马上就睡着了，让她一个人盯着天花板。她说，“我真的很沮丧。”
Like generations before them, many young women like Ms. Gadinsky are finding that casual sex does not bring the physical pleasure that men more often experience. New research suggests why: Women are less likely to have orgasms during uncommitted sexual encounters than in serious relationships.
和她们的前辈一样，很多像伽汀斯基这样的年轻女性发现，草率性行为并不带来男性能经常体验到的那种生理快感。新研究暗示了其中的原因：与固定伴侣间的性行为相比，女性在比较随便的性交中获得高潮的可能性更低。
At the same time, researchers say that young women are becoming equal partners in the hookup culture, often just as willing as young men to venture into sexual relationships without emotional ties.
与此同时，研究者指出，年轻女性正在成为勾搭文化的平等伙伴，经常和年轻男性一样，愿意尝试没有情感纽带的性关系。
“The notion of sexual liberation, where men and women both had equal access to casual sex, assumed a comparable likelihood of that sex being pleasurable,” said Kim Wallen, a professor of neuroendocrinology at Emory University who studies female desire. “But that part of the playing field isn’t level.”
“男性和女性在做露水鸳鸯上平等的性解放概念，假设了与其相匹配的性快感的可能性，”埃默里大学(Emory University)研究女性欲望的神经内分泌学教授金姆·沃伦(Kim Wallen)说，“但是，在这个方面（男女）并不平等。”
Research involving 600 college students led by Justin R. Garcia, an evolutionary biologist at the Kinsey Institute at Indiana University and researchers at Binghamton University found that women were twice as likely to reach orgasm from intercourse or oral sex in serious relationships as in hookups. The paper was presented at the annual meeting of the International Academy of Sex Research and at the Annual Convention for Psychological Science this year.
由印第安纳大学金赛研究所(Kinsey Institute at Indiana University)的演化生物学家贾斯廷·R·加西亚(Justin R. Garcia)以及宾汉姆顿大学(Binghamton University)研究者领导的一个项目，对600名大学生进行了调查，发现女性在认真的感情关系中发生交媾或口交时达到高潮的可能性，是勾搭行为中达到高潮可能性的两倍。这篇研究论文在今年的国际性学研究院(International Academy of Sex Research )年会上以及今年的心理科学年会(Annual Convention for Psychological Science)上宣读。
Similarly, a study of 24,000 students at 21 colleges over five years found that about 40 percent of women had an orgasm during their last hookup involving intercourse, while 80 percent of men did. The research was led by Paula England, a sociologist at New York University who studies the dynamics of casual sex.
类似地，一项在过去5年中对21所大学的24000名学生做的调查发现，约40%的女性在最近一次包括性交的勾搭中获得性高潮，而80%的男性在同样情况下获得性高潮。这项研究是在纽约大学做偶暂式性交动态分析的社会学家葆拉·英格兰(Paula England)博士的指导下完成的。
By contrast, roughly three quarters of women in the survey said they had an orgasm the last time they had sex in a committed relationship.
以此相比，约四分之三的接受调查女性说，她们在与固定伴侣的最近一次交媾中达到了性高潮。
“We attribute that to practice with a partner, which yields better success at orgasm, and we also think the guys care more in a relationship,” Dr. England said.
英格兰说，“我们将其归结为与伴侣的练习，练习给达到性高潮带来更高的成功率，我们也认为，处于恋爱关系中的男性更关心这一点。”
Indeed, young men surveyed in Dr. England’s study often admitted that they are less focused on sexually pleasing a woman they are seeing casually than one they are dating.
的确，英格兰的研究调查的年轻男性往往承认，相对他们与之恋爱的女性而言，他们更少关注让与之发生偶暂式性交的女方得到满足。
Duvan Giraldo, 26, a software technician in Elmhurst, Queens, said that satisfying a partner “is always my mission,” but added, “I’m not going to try as hard as when I’m with someone I really care about.” And with women he’s just met, he said, it can be awkward to talk about specific needs in the bedroom.
住在纽约皇后区埃尔姆赫斯特的软件工程师杜万·吉拉尔多(Duvan Giraldo)今年26岁，他说让伴侣满意“一直是我的宗旨，”但他补充说，“但我不会像跟我真正的心上人在一起时那样努力。”他说，和那些刚认识的女性讨论卧室里的具体需求有点尴尬。
“You’re practically just strangers at that point,” he said.
他说，“在那个时刻之前你们基本上还是陌生人。”
The lack of guidance is common, Dr. England said. “Women are not feeling very free in these casual contexts to say what they want and need,” she said. Part of the problem, she added, is that women still may be stigmatized for having casual sex.
英格兰说，缺乏引导的问题很普遍。她说，“女性在这种偶暂情况下不会觉得很放松，不愿说出自己想的或者需要的东西。”她补充说，这个问题的部分原因是，女性仍可能会因为做露水鸳鸯而损坏名声。
Dr. Garcia said, “We’ve been sold this bill of goods that we’re in an era where people can be sexually free and participate equally in the hookup culture. The fact is that not everyone’s having a good time.”
加西亚说，“我们被花言巧语地说服了，认为大家生活在一个人人享有性欲自由的时代，可以平等地参与勾搭文化。但事实是，并不是所有的人都玩得痛快。”
What women need to achieve orgasm can be very different from what they find in casual sex. Roughly one-quarter of women reliably experience orgasm through intercourse alone, according to a review of 32 studies conducted by Elisabeth Lloyd, a professor of the history and philosophy of science at Indiana University, in her 2005 book “The Case of the Female Orgasm: Bias in the Science of Evolution.” Another third of women rarely or never have orgasms from intercourse.
女性达到性高潮所需要的东西，可能与她们在偶暂式性行为中发现的很不一样。印第安纳大学的科学历史与科学哲学系教授伊丽莎白·劳埃德(Elisabeth Lloyd)在自己2005年发表的名为《女性性高潮的问题: 演化科学中的偏见》(The Case of the Female Orgasm: Bias in the Science of Evolution)一书中，对32项有关研究进行了综述，发现大约有四分之一的女性可以仅靠交媾体验性高潮。另外四分之三的女性几乎或从来没有从交媾中获得性高潮。
Vanessa Martini, 23, from Marin County, Calif., learned early on that most men she slept with casually would not intuit her needs.
来自加利福尼亚州马林郡的23岁的瓦妮莎·马蒂尼(Vanessa Martini)很早就知道，和她发生草率性行为的大多数男子不会凭直觉了解她的需求。
“I haven’t hooked up with anybody who was so cavalier as to just, like, not even care,” she said. “But I think most of them were somewhat baffled that it would require more than just them thrusting.”
她说，“我还没有和任何那么漫不经心、以至于好像一点也不关心我的人上过床。但我觉得，他们当中大多数人对这个问题都有点困惑不解，好像只要他们猛插就够了。”
Ms. Martini said she was never taught how to have good sex, let alone how to ask for what she needs. The education she received in school was aimed at stopping teenagers from having sex at all; there wasn’t much discussion of arousal. Ms. Martini said most cultural representations of sex left out the messy details.
马蒂尼说，从没人教给她怎么过好的性生活，更不用说怎样提出自己的要求了。她在学校接受的性教育都是为了让青少年完全不要发生性关系；没有多少关于性冲动的讨论。马蒂尼说，性的大部分文化表征都略掉了令人难为情的细节。
“The way we view sex in porn and in movies and in books, people aren’t talking to each other like, ‘Oh, my foot’s falling asleep, we need to move,’ ” she said.
她说，“我们在色情片、电影和书中看到的性行为，都没有这种场面：一方对另一方说，‘啊，我的一只脚麻了，我们得换个位置。’”
Communicating about those particulars is especially tricky in hookups. When one awkward exchange or misread text message could end the arrangement altogether, there’s a certain amount of pressure to tread softly, Ms. Martini said.
在勾搭时沟通这些细节就更为棘手。马蒂尼说，当一个尴尬的交流、或一条被误解的短信就可能结束所有的安排时，会有一定的压力让你温柔地对待对方。
“You have to balance a lot of things in your brain, like what’s more important to me — just getting off, or do I actually want to have a connection with this person?”
“你的大脑中要对很多问题做出权衡，比如什么对我来说更重要，只是得到性高潮，还是我真想要与这个人建立关系？”
Debra Herbenick, a research scientist at Indiana University, said that for women, casual sex is exciting precisely because it is spontaneous. She compared a hookup with having dinner at a friend’s house. “You wouldn’t be like, ‘This is what I want and this is how I want you to make it, and I want you to use only this amount of basil,’ ” she said.
印第安纳大学的研究员黛布拉·赫本尼克(Debra Herbenick)说，对女性来说，偶暂式性交令人兴奋之处就在于那是一种冲动。她把一次勾搭比作在朋友家吃的一顿晚饭。她说，“你不会这样说，‘这是我想吃的，我想让你这样来做，我只想要你用这么些佐料。’”
Some women, confronted with these roadblocks, are redefining casual sex and the physical pleasure that they expect from it. Sex without strings has carnal and emotional benefits that don’t depend on reaching orgasm, they say.
在这些障碍面前，有些女性正在重新定义偶暂式性交以及她们期望从中得到的生理愉快。她们说，没有附加条件的性交能带来不依赖于高潮的肉体和精神上的好处。
“Something we don’t talk about is why having an orgasm is the main goal or the only goal” of sex, Dr. Herbenick said. “Who are we to say women should be having orgasms?”
“我们没有讨论过的问题是，为什么达到高潮是”性交的“主要目的或唯一目的？”赫本尼克说，“谁说女性应该获得性高潮？”
Casey Romaine, a 22-year-old Bard College graduate living in Nashville, Tenn., said that more than sex, hookups are often much more about two people giving each other the sense of intimacy, however brief, they need to get through the week.
22岁的巴德学院(Bard College)毕业生凯西·罗曼因(Casey Romaine)现住在田纳西州纳什维尔，她说，勾搭并不只是为了性交，更多的是为了两人相互给予对方支撑他们度过一周的亲密感，不管这种亲密感有多短暂。
“It’s just sort of like having the experience, and having somebody that you can call or you can like, whose house you can spend the night in if you don’t feel like you want to be going home alone,” she said. “I think a lot of the time it almost is weirdly irrelevant whether or not the sex is actually good.”
她说，“这就有点像是为了那种经历，为了有一个你可以打电话或者你能喜欢的人，你能在他家过夜的人，如果你不想自己一个人回家的话。我觉得，很多时候这与性做得好不好有点奇怪地不相干。”
For Kim Huynh, a 29-year-old filmmaker in San Francisco, sacrificing a reliable orgasm for sex without the burden of commitment was a conscious decision. After a couple of relationships in college, Ms. Huynh spent about five years without a serious boyfriend and many on-again, off-again flings.
对旧金山29岁的制片人金姆·黄(Kim Huynh)来说，用牺牲可靠的性高潮来换取没有承诺负担的性关系是一个有意识的决定。在大学期间经历了几段恋爱之后，她已有5年没有固定的男朋友了，与很多人有时断时续的交往。
“As far as my ability to climax consistently, that’s something I was able to have in my monogamous relationships that I never had” in less committed circumstances, she said.
她说，“就可靠地达到性高潮的能力来说，在固定伴侣关系中我能做到，”但在无需承诺感情专一的情况下“我从没做到过”。
Yet mediocre sex was a small price to pay “for the freedom to be able to enjoy it all.” The physical aspect of a tryst with a relative stranger was gratifying, she said, even if her chances of reaching orgasm were limited. When her partner’s performance was lackluster, she still took pride in her own sexual prowess.
然而，不够好的性交对“能够享受这一切的自由来说”是一个不大的代价。她说，跟相对陌生的人幽会有一种生理方面的满足，即使她获得性高潮的可能性不大。当她的性伙伴表现不佳时，她仍能为自己在性方面的能力感到自豪。
“To sort of know yourself to be sort of skilled in a way or to be able to see someone else’s pleasure that was your own doing, I think there’s definitely something very empowering about that,” she said.
她说，“大致知道自己在某些方面挺熟练，或者能看到自己的所为能让他人得到快感，我认为这本身肯定是一件让人觉得掌握了自己命运的事情。”