BEIJING — When Wang Ge, a business school student, wakes up, she often asks herself, “What would Ivanka do?”
北京——商学院学生王戈每天醒来时常常问自己，“伊万卡会做什么？”
That would be Ivanka Trump, the eldest daughter of President Trump, a woman Ms. Wang has never met but worships.
这里说的正是特朗普总统的大女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)，一个王戈从没见过却十分崇拜的女人。
In the United States, Ms. Trump has become a controversial figure, battling persistent questions about business conflicts and criticism for not doing more to moderate her father’s policies toward women.
在美国，伊万卡已经成为一个颇具争议的人物，要应对接连不断的有关商业冲突的质疑，被批评没有做更多努力以缓和她父亲针对女性的政策。
But in China, Ms. Trump is widely adored. Her lavish lifestyle and business acumen resonate with many young professionals who are hungry for fame and fortune in a society that often equates material wealth with success.
但在中国，伊万卡却受到普遍的喜爱。在一个将物质财富等同于成功的社会里，她奢华的生活方式和出色的商业头脑，引发了许多渴望获得声名与财富的年轻职业人士的共鸣。
Ms. Wang keeps photos of Ms. Trump on her iPad. She counsels burned-out friends to read Ms. Trump’s self-help tips (“Find strength in others” and “Be an optimist”). And she models her day on Ms. Trump’s, waking at 6 a.m. to increase productivity and setting aside at least a half-hour to read.
王戈在自己的iPad上保存着伊万卡的照片。她劝自己那些消沉的朋友读读伊万卡的自助建议（《在他人中汲取力量》[Find strength in others]和《做一个乐观主义者》[Be an optimist]）。她参照伊万卡的作息，早上六点起床，以提高效率，留出至少半小时时间阅读。
“She’s pretty, she has her own career, she’s hardworking and she has a beautiful family,” said Ms. Wang, 26, a student at Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business in Beijing. “She inspires me.”
“她很漂亮，有自己的事业，十分勤勉，又有一个美好的家庭，”北京的长江商学院26岁的学生王戈说道。“她激励着我。”
She is called a “goddess” on social media. A video of her daughter singing in Chinese went viral, attracting tens of millions of viewers. Working mothers have latched onto Ms. Trump’s brand of have-it-all feminism, even if most lack her financial resources, and entrepreneurs have studied her speeches for clues on making successful pitches.
她在社交媒体上被称为“女神”。一段她女儿唱中文歌的视频在网上疯传开来，吸引了数千万人观看。职场妈妈们热情地接受伊万卡那拥有一切的女性主义品牌，尽管她们大多缺乏跟她一样的财力；企业家们则研究她的演讲，想从中找到实现成功宣传的秘诀。
Xinhua, the official news agency, weighed in last week, describing Ms. Trump as having an “elegant and poised style.”
上周，中国的官方通讯社新华社也加入这一行列，称她“优雅大方气质好”。
“A lot of people think Ivanka is the real president,” said Li Moya, 31, who runs an app for renting venue space in Beijing. “We think she has the brains, not her father.”
“很多人觉得伊万卡才是真正的总统，”31岁的曾丽说道，她在北京运营着一个场地租赁应用软件。“我们觉得她才是有头脑的那个，而不是她的父亲。”
Young Chinese women working in sectors like technology and finance have been especially taken by Ms. Trump, whom they see as an elegant symbol of power and ambition. They say they have sought to mimic her tenacity and confidence as they confront chauvinism and stereotypes in the workplace and in family life.
在科技和金融等行业工作的年轻中国女性尤其喜爱伊万卡，她们将其看作兼具实力与雄心的优雅象征。她们表示，在面对职场和家庭生活中的沙文主义与模式化观念时，她们会努力效仿她的坚韧与自信。
Many are also impressed by Ms. Trump’s decision to start her own fashion brand rather than simply focus on the family real estate business.
许多人也十分钦佩伊万卡决定开创自己的时尚品牌，而非仅仅专注于家族地产生意。
“She’s very independent,” said Wang Jiabao, 28, a reality television producer in Beijing. “She represents what we’re looking for — to marry into a decent family, to look good, and to also have your own career.”
“她很独立，”生活在北京的28岁真人秀制片人王佳宝说。“她代表着我们渴望的东西——嫁入体面的家庭，拥有良好的形象，还有自己的事业。”
Some also believe Ms. Trump embodies Confucian values, pointing to her decision to convert to Judaism for her husband and her steadfast defense of her father, both seen as illustrations of a devotion to family.
还有一些人认为伊万卡身上体现出儒家的价值观，指出她为丈夫皈依犹太教，并坚定地为自己的父亲辩护，二者都被看作是忠于家庭的表现。
In China’s stressed-out urban centers, Ms. Trump’s tips on leading a balanced life (“Don’t sleep with your BlackBerry next to your bed,” says one) have found a large audience.
在中国压力巨大的城市中心，伊万卡有关平衡生活的自助建议（比如“睡觉时不要把你的黑莓手机放在枕边”）获得了许多受众的追捧。
On messaging apps, young professionals trade translations of her self-help guides, while working mothers share her advice on carving out time for loved ones.
在社交应用软件上，年轻职业人士交换着有关她的自助建议的译文，职场妈妈们则分享她提出的腾出时间陪伴挚爱亲友的建议。
Chinese companies have also tried to profit from Ms. Trump’s popularity, filing hundreds of trademark applications using her name — Yi Wan Ka in Chinese — on products and services such as shoes, spa treatments, plastic surgery and pottery.
中国的企业也试图从伊万卡的大受欢迎中获益，用她的名字——中文“伊万卡”——提交了许多商标注册申请，用于鞋、水疗、整形手术和陶器等产品和服务。
Still, Ms. Trump has her critics. Some are skeptical of her father’s policies and disturbed by her decision to join his administration, in which she serves as assistant to the president. Others believe that as a child of privilege she is a poor role model for everyday Chinese people.
不过，伊万卡也不乏批评者。有人质疑她父亲的政策，为她做出加入父亲的政府、担任总统助理的决定感到不安。还有人认为，作为一个拥有特权的孩子，她并不适合当普通中国人的楷模。
“She’s trying too hard and pretending too much,” said Shi Yixuan, 22, an administrative staff member at Peking University in Beijing.
“她太刻意、太假，”22岁的北京大学行政管理人员石艺璇（音）说。
But many women see recognizable Chinese attributes.
然而，却有很多女性在她身上看到了中国人的特质。
“Underneath her image are very traditional values,” said Dai Linjia, a communications consultant. “Her family is almost like a dynasty.”
“她的内在有着十分传统的价值观，”公关顾问戴林佳（音）说。“她的家族几乎像是个王朝。”
While her father has threatened a trade war with China, Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, have embarked on a charm offensive with the country.
尽管她的父亲曾威胁与中国进行贸易战，但伊万卡和她丈夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)开始对这个国家展开了魅力攻势。
It helps that her daughter, Arabella, speaks Chinese, which she began learning from her Chinese nanny. Ms. Trump and Arabella attended a Lunar New Year festival at the Chinese Embassy in Washington in February, an event broadcast on China’s prime-time news.
她的女儿阿拉贝拉(Arabella)可以讲中文这一点起到了作用，后者跟自己的中国保姆学中文。今年2月，伊万卡和阿拉贝拉参加了华盛顿中国大使馆举行的农历新年招待会，这一事件在中国黄金时段的新闻节目中播出。
On Tuesday, two days before her father was to meet Mr. Xi, Ms. Trump posted a photo of her younger son, Theodore, playing with wooden blocks emblazoned with Chinese characters.
周二，也就是距离她父亲与习近平会晤还有两天的时候，伊万卡发了一张她的小儿子西奥多(Theodore)的照片，他当时在玩带有醒目中文字样的积木。
Analysts said Ms. Trump’s popularity could help ease the relationship between China and the United States at a tense time.
分析人士表示，伊万卡大受欢迎有助于在中美两国关系趋紧时起到缓解效果。
“Her father is a regular critic of China, so Ivanka’s moves sort of compensate for that,” said Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing. “The Chinese government will see there are both ugly and positive messages coming out of the U.S.”
“他的父亲经常批评中国，所以伊万卡这样做是一种补偿，”位于北京的中国人民大学国际关系学院教授时殷弘说。“这样一来中国政府会看到美国既有令人不快的信息，也有积极的信号。”
Many younger Chinese will be watching this week’s meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi for signs of Ms. Trump.
许多更年轻的中国人会关注特朗普与习近平本周的会晤，从中寻找伊万卡的踪迹。
Ms. Wang, the business school student, said she hoped that Ms. Trump could help improve China’s standing in the United States.
商学院学生王戈表示，她希望伊万卡能帮助改善中国在美国的名声。
“She’s a very good role model,” she said. “I think she can help the two countries grow closer.”
“她是一个非常棒的楷模，”她说。“我认为她能帮助这两个国家走得更近。”