HONG KONG — Shares in the state-run “bad bank” China Cinda Asset Management rose as much as 33 percent on their trading debut in Hong Kong on Thursday after it raised around $2.5 billion last week on huge demand for its initial public offering.
香港——国有“坏账银行”中国信达资产管理公司的股票周四在香港挂牌上市的第一天上涨幅度最高达33%，由于对其首次公开募股的巨大需求，信达在上周已经募集到约25亿美元（约合150亿元人民币）的资金。
The stock rose as high as 4.79 Hong Kong dollars per share in morning trading, soaring a third above its offering price of 3.58 dollars per share amid heavy trading volumes and, on paper, adding around 43 billion dollars, or about $5.5 billion, to China Cinda’s market value, based on its total share capital of 35.5 billion shares.
信达股票上午的交易量很大，股价一度上升到每股4.79港元（约合3.75元人民币），比其上市定价的每股3.58港元高出三分之一。这给信达的票面市值增加了约430亿港元，按其股票总数为355亿股计算。
The strong performance signals resurgent demand among investors in Chinese I.P.O.’s, and is likely to bode well for China Everbright Bank, which is scheduled to price its offering on Friday as it attempts to raise as much as $2.8 billion in what would be the biggest Hong Kong share sale this year.
信达股票的强劲表现意味着投资者对中国IPO需求的复苏，这对中国光大银行来说是个好兆头，光大银行试图募集到最高达28亿美元的资金，其计划的周五挂牌上市价就是按此目标而定的，这将成为香港今年最大的一笔股票上市交易。
On the face of it, Cinda and Everbright are perfect opposites. Everbright makes most of its money from interest margins on traditional lending, which account for around 77 percent of its operating income. Business is best when times are good, when companies and people are borrowing more and are flush with cash to repay their debts.
从表面上看，信达公司和光大银行有着截然相反的业务。光大银行主要通过传统的借贷息差赚钱，这部分收入占其总收入的约77%。经济状况好时，公司和个人借款更多，有充足的资金还钱，光大的生意也最好。
Cinda, on the other hand, is one of four asset managers set up by the government to bail out banks by taking bad loans off of their books. When borrowers fail to repay their loans to banks like Everbright, Cinda makes money by acquiring those deadbeat debts at a discount and recouping its outlay by extracting cash, shares or other assets from the borrowers. In effect, the Cinda I.P.O. represents a bet that a slowdown of the Chinese economy will create a new wave of bad debt.
相反，信达则是政府建立的四大资产管理公司之一，这些公司通过处理银行坏账帮助它们摆脱困境。当贷款者无力偿还从像光大这样的银行借来的钱时，信达公司折价收购这些死账，然后通过从借款者那里索取现金、股票或其他资产的方法，收回购买坏账的开支，以此方式赚钱。信达的IPO实质上代表一种赌注：中国经济放缓会制造新一轮的坏账。
So far, investors seem keen on both deals. Demand among individual local investors in Cinda’s offering was 160 times the amount of shares that had been set aside for them. Everbright’s I.P.O. is its third try for a Hong Kong listing. The bank aborted two previous attempts — most recently in August 2012 — because of market downturns.
到目前为止，投资者似乎对这两次股票上市都十分感兴趣。本地的个人投资者对信达股票的需求是为他们原来预留的份额的160倍。光大银行此次IPO是它第三次尝试在香港上市。该银行前两次上市的努力都由于市场低迷而被放弃，最近的一次是在2012年8月。
Everbright Bank is the third Chinese bank since October to seek a Hong Kong listing. Chinese banks have seen generally healthy growth in profits, but need to raise money and secure new access to capital markets ahead of what analysts expect could be a rising tide of new bad debt in China. The banks also need to shore up their capital bases ahead of more stringent capital requirements being phased in by Chinese financial regulators between now and 2018.
光大银行是10月份以来寻求在香港上市的第三家中国银行。中国银行的利润一般来说都在健康增长，但分析人士预计中国会出现新一轮的坏账风波，银行需要在问题出现之前募集资本并建立进入资本市场的新切入点。中国金融监管者从现在开始到2018年期间将逐步实施更严格的资本要求，银行也需要在此之前稳固自己的资本基础。