It was the most notorious spy case of the Cold War — the conviction and execution of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg for passing atomic secrets to the Soviet Union — and it rested largely on the testimony of Ms. Rosenberg’s brother David Greenglass, whose name to many became synonymous with betrayal.
那是冷战中最为臭名昭著的一桩间谍案—— 朱利叶斯与埃塞尔·罗森伯格夫妇(Julius and Ethel Rosenberg)被认定将原子弹的机密信息交给苏联，并因此被处以极刑——案件的基础大部分维系于埃塞尔的弟弟戴维·格林格拉斯(David Greenglass)的证词。在很多人看来，他的名字是“背叛”的同义词。
For his role in the conspiracy, Mr. Greenglass, an Army sergeant who had stolen nuclear intelligence from Los Alamos, N.M., went to prison for almost a decade, then changed his name and lived quietly until a journalist tracked him down. He admitted then, nearly a half-century later, that he had lied on the witness stand to save his wife from prosecution, giving testimony that he was never sure about but that nevertheless helped send his sister and her husband to the electric chair in 1953.
身为陆军中士的格林格拉斯从新墨西哥州的洛斯阿拉莫斯国家实验室盗取了核情报，并因为自己在间谍案中扮演的角色而服刑近10年。出狱后，他更名改姓、低调度日，直至一名记者找到了他。到这个时候，事件已过去了近半个世纪。他承认，为了让妻子免于起诉，他在证人席上说了谎，给出了自己从未确定的证言。然而，这一证词却成为了将姐姐和姐夫1953年送上电椅的助力。
Mr. Greenglass died on July 1, a family member confirmed. He was 92. His family did not announce his death; The New York Times learned of it in a call to the nursing home where he had been living under his assumed name. Mr. Greenglass’s wife, Ruth, who had played a minor role in the conspiracy and also gave damning testimony against the Rosenbergs, died in 2008.
一名家人证实，格林格拉斯于今年7月1日过世，享年92岁。他的家人并未宣布这一死讯；《纽约时报》致电了他以化名入住的疗养院，从而得知了这一消息。格林格拉斯的妻子露丝(Ruth)在间谍案中扮演了一个小角色，当年也做出了对罗森伯格夫妇严重不利的证词。她于2008年过世。
In today’s world, where spying has more to do with greed than ideology, the story of David Greenglass and the Rosenbergs is an enduring time capsule from an age of uncertainties — of world war against fascism, Cold War with the Soviets, and shifting alliances that led some Americans to embrace utopian communism and others to denounce such ideas, and their exponents, as un-American.
今时今日，间谍行为更多地与贪婪有关，而非意识形态，戴维·格林格拉斯和罗森伯格夫妇的故事像是来自变幻莫测年代的久远时空胶囊。那时候，反法西斯的世界大战、对抗苏联的冷战，以及其中的敌友转换，让一部分美国人欣然接纳了乌托邦式共产主义，而另一部分人则将这类思想及其拥护者斥为不爱国。
Mr. Greenglass, who grew up on the Lower East Side of Manhattan in a household that believed Marxism would save humanity, was an ardent, preachy Communist when drafted by the Army in World War II, but no one in the barracks took him very seriously, much less believed him capable of spying.
格林格拉斯在曼哈顿下东区长大，其家庭信奉马克思主义将拯救全人类。二战期间被陆军应招入伍时，他热烈追捧共产主义，并且喜欢加以宣扬。不过，营房里的同袍从未严肃对待他的信仰，更不相信他能当间谍。
He was not well educated, but his skills as a machinist — and pure luck — led to his assignment in 1944 to the Manhattan Project at Los Alamos, where America’s first atomic bombs were being developed. After being picked to replace a soldier who had gone AWOL, he lied on his security clearance report and was assigned to a team making precision molds for high-explosive lenses used to detonate the nuclear core.
他并未受过良好教育，但他当机械师的技能——加上纯粹的运气——让他在1944年受命参与洛斯阿拉莫斯的“曼哈顿计划”。美国的首批原子弹就是在那里研发的。一名军人擅离职守后，他被选为接任者。在安全级别报告中，他撒了谎，被指派到为用于引爆核心的高爆透镜制作精确模具的团队。
When Mr. Rosenberg, already a Soviet spy, learned of his brother-in-law’s work, he recruited him. Security was often lax at Los Alamos, with safes and file cabinets left unlocked and classified documents lying on desks. Mr. Greenglass had no need for Hollywood spy tricks. He kept his eyes and ears open, and in mid-1945 sent Mr. Rosenberg a crude sketch and 12 pages of technical details on the bomb.
此时朱利叶斯·罗森伯格已是苏联间谍，听说妻弟的工作后便招募了他。洛斯阿拉莫斯当时常常疏于戒备，保险柜和文件柜不上锁，机密文件就躺在桌上。格林格拉斯留心搜集，在1945年年中的时候交给了姐夫一份核弹的草图，以及12页纸的技术细节。
That September, after the Japanese cities Hiroshima and Nagasaki were destroyed with atomic bombs, ending the war, David and Ruth Greenglass visited the Rosenbergs’ apartment in New York. What happened there later became a matter of life and death, for as Mr. Greenglass delivered his latest spy notes, a woman — either his wife or his sister — sat at a Remington typewriter and typed them out.
不久后，日本城市广岛和长崎毁于核弹，战争结束。当年9月，戴维与露丝·格林格拉斯二人来到罗森伯格夫妇位于纽约的公寓。那里发生的事情后来成为了关乎生死的大问题。戴维·格林格拉斯拿出了自己获得的最新情报笔记，一名女性——要么是他的妻子，要么是姐姐——坐在一台雷明顿打字机前，将它们打了出来。
The significance of that act did not become evident for five years. By then the Soviet Union, once America’s ally, had become a Cold War foe, witch hunts for suspected Communists were underway, and spy networks were being broken up. Klaus Fuchs, a physicist who had worked at Los Alamos, was caught, and named Harry Gold as a courier. Mr. Gold then named the Greenglasses and the Rosenbergs, who were arrested in 1950.
此举的重要性在接下来的五年里还不明显。然而，五年后，曾经的盟友苏联已成为美国在冷战中的敌手。对涉嫌共产主义的人士的迫害正在展开，间谍网络遭到了破坏。在洛斯阿拉莫斯工作过的物理学家克劳斯·富克斯(Klaus Fuchs)被抓，供出了情报员哈里·戈尔德(Harry Gold)。戈尔德随后供出了格林格拉斯夫妇和罗森伯格夫妇，使得他们于1950年被捕。
Mr. Greenglass admitted passing secrets to Mr. Rosenberg, but refused at first to implicate his sister. But just before the Rosenberg trial, Mr. Greenglass changed his story. Told that Ruth had informed F.B.I. agents that Ethel had typed his notes, he supported his wife’s account and agreed to testify against his sister and her husband.
戴维·格林格拉斯承认将机密信息交给了朱利叶斯·罗森伯格，但起初拒绝指认自己的姐姐。不过，就在罗森伯格审判开始之前，格林格拉斯改了供词。在得知露丝已告诉联邦调查局(FBI)探员，是埃塞尔打字将情报发出之后，他支持了妻子的说法，并且同意提供对姐姐及姐夫不利的证词。
Mr. Greenglass was under intense pressure. He had not yet been sentenced, and his wife, the mother of his two small children, faced possible prosecution, though her role had been minimal. In federal court in Manhattan in 1951, Mr. Greenglass’s testimony — corroborated by his wife’s — clinched the case against Mr. Rosenberg and implicated Mrs. Rosenberg.
格林格拉斯承受巨大的压力。他没有被判刑，他的妻子——两个孩子的妈妈——可能会被起诉，尽管她扮演的角色非常小。1951年，在曼哈顿联邦法院，格林格拉斯的证词——获得其妻子的证实——决定了罗森伯格案的判决，使埃塞尔卷入其中。
Referring to Ethel Rosenberg in ringing hyperbolic phrases, the chief prosecutor, Irving H. Saypol, declared, “Just so had she, on countless other occasions, sat at that typewriter and struck the keys, blow by blow, against her own country in the interests of the Soviets.”
首席检察官欧文·H·塞波尔(Irving H. Saypol)提到埃塞尔·罗森伯格时使用了非常夸张的措辞，他宣称，“这样的场面她已经经历过无数次，她坐在打字机旁，敲打键盘，一字一字地敲打，为了苏联的利益背叛了自己的国家。”
The jury found the Rosenbergs guilty of espionage conspiracy, and the presiding judge, Irving R. Kaufman, sentenced them to death. Appeals failed, and the Rosenbergs, who rejected all entreaties to name collaborators and insisted they were not guilty, were executed at Sing Sing on June 19, 1953. A co-defendant, Morton Sobell, was also convicted and was imprisoned for 18 years.
陪审团裁定罗森伯格夫妇犯有间谍共谋罪，首席法官欧文·R·考夫曼(Irving R. Kaufman)对他们处以死刑判决。上诉失败，罗森伯格夫妇于1953年6月19在新新惩教所(Sing Sing)被执行死刑。两人拒绝了所有希望他们供出通敌者的恳求，并坚称自己无罪。共同被告莫顿·索贝尔(Morton Sobell)也被定罪，并被监禁了18年。
Mrs. Greenglass was not prosecuted. Mr. Greenglass was sentenced to 15 years, but was released in 1960 after nine and a half. He rejoined his wife and for decades lived quietly in the New York area, working as a machinist and inventor.
露丝没有遭到起诉。格林格拉斯被判15年监禁，但在服刑九年半后，于1960年获释。他与妻子重新团聚，在纽约地区默默地生活了数十年，以机工和发明为业。
A 1983 book by Ronald Radosh and Joyce Milton, “The Rosenberg File: A Search for the Truth,” rekindled interest, concluding that Mr. Rosenberg was a dedicated spy but that his wife had played only a minor role, and raising questions about the evidence and the government’s tactics in the case. Mr. Radosh and Sol Stern also interviewed Mr. Greenglass for an article in The New Republic.
罗纳德·拉多什(Ronald Radosh)和乔伊斯·米尔顿(Ronald Radosh and Joyce Milton)1983年出版的《罗森伯格案：寻求真相》(The Rosenberg File: A Search for the Truth)再次引发兴趣，该书断定，朱利叶斯·罗森伯格是一名专业间谍，但他妻子的作用非常小，并对该案中的证据及政府策略提出质疑。拉多什和索尔·斯特恩(Sol Stern)在为《新共和》(The New Republic)撰稿时采访了格林格拉斯。
Sam Roberts, a Times editor and reporter, later found Mr. Greenglass and, after a 13-year effort, obtained 50 hours of interviews that led to a book, “The Brother: The Untold Story of the Rosenberg Case.” In the book, Mr. Greenglass admitted that, to spare his wife from prosecution, he had testified that his sister typed his notes. In fact, he said, he could not recall who had done it.
《纽约时报》编辑、记者萨姆·罗伯茨(Sam Roberts)后来找到了格林格拉斯，经过13年的努力，对他进行了50个小时的采访，并出版了《解密罗森伯格案》（The Brother: The Untold Story of the Rosenberg Case)一书。格林格拉斯在书中承认，为了让妻子免遭起诉，他作证称是姐姐打字发出情报。他表示，实际上，他记不起是谁发出的情报。
“I don’t remember that at all,” Mr. Greenglass said. “I frankly think my wife did the typing, but I don’t remember.”
“我根本不记得，”格林格拉斯说。“说实话我认为打字的是我的妻子，但我不记得了。”
He said he had no regrets. “My wife is more important to me than my sister. Or my mother or my father, O.K.? And she was the mother of my children.”
他称自己不后悔。“对我来说，妻子比姐姐重要。比我的母亲或父亲重要，不行吗？她是我孩子的母亲。”
In a 2008 interview with Mr. Roberts, Mr. Sobell admitted that he had given military secrets to the Soviet Union, and concurred in what has become a consensus among historians: that the Greenglass-Rosenberg atomic bomb details were of little value to the Soviets, except to corroborate what they already knew, and that Ethel Rosenberg had played no active role in the conspiracy.
在2008年接受罗伯茨采访时，索贝尔承认，他曾为苏联提供军事秘密，他同意历史学家们达成的共识：对于苏联来说，格林格拉斯-罗森伯格提供的原子弹细节信息除了证实他们已知的信息外，没有什么价值，埃塞尔·罗森伯格在该共谋案中没有扮演积极角色。
David Greenglass was born on the Lower East Side on March 2, 1922, to immigrants from Russia and Austria. He was 14 when he met Julius Rosenberg, who began courting Ethel, who was seven years older than David, in 1936. The Rosenbergs were married in 1939.
1922年3月2日，戴维·格林格拉斯出生在下东区的一个俄罗斯及奥地利移民家庭。1936年，也就是在格林格拉斯14岁的时候，他认识了朱利叶斯·罗森伯格，当时罗森伯格开始追求比戴维大七岁的埃塞尔。罗森伯格夫妇于1939年结婚。
David graduated from Haaren High School in 1940 with only fair grades. He attended Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, but flunked out.
1940年，戴维从哈伦高中(Haaren High School)毕业，成绩一般。他进入布鲁克林理工学院(Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute)学习，但最终退学。
Mr. Greenglass and Ruth Printz, who had been neighbors, childhood sweethearts and members of the Young Communist League, were married in 1942. They had a son and a daughter, who survive him.
格林格拉斯与邻居露丝·普林茨(Ruth Printz)青梅竹马，并于1942年结婚。他们都是共青团(Young Communist League)成员。两人育有一儿一女，目前仍然在世。