NEW YORK — “Charging Bull” had a message for “Fearless Girl” on Wednesday, and it was more “Get out of my space” than “Here’s looking at you, kid.”
纽约——周三，《华尔街公牛》(Charging Bull)给《无畏的女孩》(Fearless Girl)发出了一个讯息。这个讯息的内容与其说是“敬你，孩子”，不如说是“给我让开”。
The message actually came from Arturo Di Modica, the sculptor who created “Charging Bull” nearly 30 years ago. He also copyrighted and trademarked the 3-1/2-ton sculpture that stands near Wall Street. Since March 7, “Charging Bull” has faced off against “Fearless Girl,” a statue of a girl posed with her fists on her hips that was commissioned by State Street Global Advisors, a financial firm based in Boston.
这个讯息实际上是雕塑家亚托罗·迪·莫迪卡(Arturo Di Modica)发出的。他在近30年前创作了《华尔街公牛》这件作品，并拥有这尊位于华尔街附近，重达3.5吨的雕塑的版权和商标权。自3月7日以来，《华尔街公牛》一直与《无畏的女孩》对峙。后者是一尊一个小女孩双手叉腰的雕塑，由总部设在波士顿的金融公司道富环球投资(State Street Global Advisors)委约创作。
Di Modica said “Fearless Girl” was an insult to his work, which he created after the stock market crashes in the late 1980s. “She’s there attacking the bull,” he said.
迪·莫迪卡称，《无畏的女孩》是对自己作品的侮辱。《华尔街公牛》是他在80年代末股市崩盘后创作的。“她是在攻击公牛，”他说。
Even as Di Modica was denouncing “Fearless Girl” at a news conference in Midtown Manhattan, South Street Global’s home page highlighted the statue for its message about “the power of women in leadership” and urged “greater gender diversity on corporate boards.”
就在迪·莫迪卡于曼哈顿中城的新闻发布会上谴责《无畏的女孩》时，道富环球投资的主页还把该雕塑放在突出的位置，因为它传递了有关“女性的领导力量”的讯息，并呼吁“增加董事会的性别多样性”。
Di Modica and his lawyers did not disagree with that idea at a news conference — “None of us here are in any way not proponents of gender equality,” said one of Di Modica’s lawyers, Norman Siegel, a former executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union. They demanded that “Fearless Girl” be moved somewhere else.
在新闻发布会上，迪·莫迪卡和他的律师并不反对这个观点。“我们谁都不反对性别平等，” 迪·莫迪卡的律师之一、前纽约公民自由联盟(New York Civil Liberties Union)负责人诺曼·西格尔(Norman Siegel)说。他们要求将《无畏的女孩》移至其他地方。
Mayor Bill de Blasio, who spoke out in support of “Fearless Girl” last month, reiterated its importance on Twitter on Wednesday: “Men who don’t like women taking up space are exactly why we need the Fearless Girl.”
周三，曾在上月发声支持《无畏的女孩》的纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)在Twitter上重申了它的重要性：“不喜欢女性占用空间的男性，正是我们需要《无畏的女孩》的原因。”
“Fearless Girl” was seen by many as a unifying symbol during International Women’s Day last month. Chelsea Clinton and actress Jessica Chastain posted on Twitter expressing support for the statue.
在上月的国际妇女节期间，很多人认为《无畏的女孩》是一个统一标志。切尔西·克林顿(Chelsea Clinton)和演员杰西卡·查斯坦(Jessica Chastain)都曾在Twitter上发帖表示对该雕塑的支持。
But Wednesday, Siegel said, “Principle trumps popularity, and there are principles here.”
但西格尔周三说，“原则高于受欢迎，这里涉及多项原则。”
For his part, Di Modica became emotional, explaining later that when he had heard about “Fearless Girl,” his reaction was to go to the site in Lower Manhattan and try to do something to end the faceoff between the two statues. “I said, ‘Now I’m going to turn around the bull myself,'” he recalled.
迪·莫迪卡变得情绪激动。他后来解释说，听说《无畏的女孩》时，他的反应是去位于曼哈顿下城的现场，尝试做点什么，以便结束两尊雕塑之间的对峙。“我说，‘现在我要自己去让公牛转个身，’”他回忆说。
The lawyers said that “Fearless Girl” had subverted the bull’s meaning, which Di Modica defined as “freedom in the world, peace, strength, power and love.”
律师称《无畏的女孩》颠覆了公牛的意义。迪·莫迪卡把公牛的意义定义为“世界上的自由、和平、坚强、力量和爱”。
Because of “Fearless Girl,” Siegel said, “'Charging Bull’ no longer carries a positive, optimistic message,” adding that Di Modica’s work “has been transformed into a negative force and a threat.”
因为《无畏的女孩》，西格尔说，“《华尔街公牛》传递的不再是积极、乐观的讯息”。他接着表示，迪·莫迪卡的作品“被人变成了一种负面力量和威胁”。
The lawyers accused State Street Global of commissioning “Fearless Girl” as a site-specific work that was conceived with “Charging Bull” in mind. They said that that had improperly commercialized Di Modica’s statue in violation of its copyright. They asserted that the city had violated his legal rights by issuing permits allowing the 4-foot-tall “Fearless Girl” to stand across from the 11-foot bronze bull without Di Modica’s permission.
律师指责道富环球投资是把《无畏的女孩》作为一件摆放在特定场所、构思时便想到《华尔街公牛》的作品进行委约的。他们表示这是对迪·莫迪卡的雕塑不正当的商业化，侵犯了它的版权。他们还声称纽约市未经迪·莫迪卡的允许就签发许可证，允许4英尺（约合1.2米）高的《无畏的女孩》摆放在11英尺（约合3米）高的铜牛对面，侵犯了他的合法权利。
Siegel and other lawyers for Di Modica released letters they had sent to the mayor; Ronald P. O’Hanley, the president and chief executive of State Street Global; and Harris Diamond, the chairman and chief executive of McCann Worldgroup, State Street Global’s marketing agency. Among other things, the letters demanded the removal of “Fearless Girl.”
西格尔和迪·莫迪卡的其他律师发布了一封信，已经寄给了市长、道富环球公司(State Street Global)总裁兼首席执行官罗纳德·P·奥汉利(Ronald P. O'Hanley)以及该公司营销机构麦肯国际集团(McCann Worldgroup)董事长兼首席执行官哈里斯·戴蒙德(Harris Diamond)。信件提出了移除《无畏的女孩》等要求。
Anne McNally, a spokeswoman for State Street Global, said the firm was reviewing the letter. She added, “We continue to be grateful to the city of New York and people around the world who have responded so enthusiastically to what the ‘Fearless Girl’ represents — the power and potential of having more women in leadership.”
道富环球公司的发言人安妮·麦克纳利(Anne McNally)表示，该公司正在研究这封信。她说：“我们继续感谢纽约市和世界各地的人们，他们对《无畏的女孩》所代表的含义——让更多女性成为领导者的力量和潜力——有如此热烈的回应。”
Siegel said he had filed Freedom of Information requests for city records about the permits for “Fearless Girl.” It was initially issued a one-week permit, but after it became a social media sensation, de Blasio announced that the permit was being extended. The mayor said that the sculpture could remain until next year’s International Women’s Day.
西格尔说，他为了获得《无畏的女孩》的城市安放许可证，提交了自由信息(Freedom of Information)申请。这件雕塑最初获得的许可证期限为一个星期，但在社交媒体上引起轰动之后，白思豪宣布对许可证延期。市长说，雕像可以留到明年的国际妇女节。
In March, the mayor called the statue a symbol of “standing up to fear, standing up to power, being able to find in yourself the strength to do what’s right.” He also said the timing of the placement of “Fearless Girl” mattered, coming early in Donald Trump’s presidency and not long after the women’s rights marches that followed his inauguration. “She is inspiring everyone at a moment when we need inspiration,” the mayor said.
3月份，市长称这座雕像代表的是“敢于面对恐惧，面对权贵，可以找到自身的力量去做正确的事情”，他还说，安置《无畏的女孩》的时机是很重要的——在唐纳德·特朗普就任总统之初，就职仪式后的妇女权利游行之后不久。市长说：“当我们需要灵感的时候，她给大家带来启迪。”
Siegel said he hoped that the dispute over the two statues could be resolved amicably. But he added, “We never dismiss the possibility of litigation.”
西格尔说，他希望两个雕像的争端能够友善地解决。但他也说：“我们从不排除诉讼的可能性。”