You’ve just landed in Beijing, Rio de Janeiro or Christchurch, New Zealand, and you’re greeted at the airport by a clutch of adoring locals.
你刚在北京，里约热内卢、新西兰基督城下飞机，在机场受到一群可爱的当地民众热烈欢迎。
What is the polite way to greet them? Do you bow, or proffer your hand, or prepare to envelop the assembled strangers in an American-style embrace?
要如何礼貌地向他们打招呼呢？你会鞠躬、或伸出你的手，还是以一个美式的拥抱欢迎这群陌生人？
More important: To kiss or not to kiss?
最重要的是：到底该不该亲吻对方呢？
The world may be increasingly globalized, but when it comes to greeting practices, local customs still prevail — and things can get awkward when, say, a hug-loving American businessman meets his Japanese counterpart for the first time. (Best just to bow.)
世界或许愈来愈全球化了，但当我们面对问候礼仪时，仍取决于当地习俗──比方说，当一个热爱拥抱的美国商人第一次见到他的日本合伙人时，场面可能会变得尴尬。（此时最好鞠躬就好。）
If you find yourself facing a group of native Maoris in New Zealand, you’ll want to steel yourself for a traditional nose greeting, which involves touching snouts to one another’s foreheads. In Rio, local convention dictates three cheek kisses. But a few hours’ drive to the south in São Paulo, the single peck prevails. In Beijing, the locals prefer a nod and a smile.
当你遇见一群新西兰的毛利人时，你需要遵循他们传统的磨鼻子问候方式，其中包括你需要用鼻子碰触对方的额头。在里约，传统习俗是见面时亲三次脸颊。但到了几个小时车程外的圣保罗，则盛行一次轻啄。在北京，当地人偏好点头或微笑。
In the interests of international fellowship and peace, here is an incomplete guide to world greetings.
在追求国际友谊与和谐的目的下，我们为您提供一些世界打招呼礼仪的指南。
In much of Latin America, Europe and the Middle East, air kissing between strangers is common, but each nation, and in some cases each region within a country, may have its own habits.
在大部分的拉丁美洲，欧洲和中东地区，与陌生人隔空接吻是相当常见的，但在同一个国家中的不同区域，人们可能会有他们自己的习惯。
Lips Together?
该怎么亲？
Argentine men will cheek-kiss one another, but only if they are friends of friends. In most of the Arab world, a double air kiss is obligatory, though only between people of the same sex.
阿根廷男人会以碰脸颊的方式亲吻对方，但只有在朋友间与朋友的朋友间才这么做。在大部分的阿拉伯世界，两下隔空接吻是必须的，而这也只发生在同性别的人之间。
Things can get complicated in France, as this map suggests: Expect anywhere from four kisses (in Nantes) down to two (in Toulouse) or just a single peck (in Brest). The general rule is that lips should never touch cheek, though a faint smooching sound is expected.
在法国，事情可能变得更加复杂，根据这张地图所示：从亲四下的南特，到亲两下的图卢兹，再到只是轻轻一啄的布雷斯特，各种情况都有一般性原则：嘴唇不能碰到脸颊，但亲吻时需要加上一个闷响声。
In most of Northern Europe, a firm handshake will usually suffice between strangers, and a single kiss for friends. “Firm” doesn’t begin to describe the obligatory handshake between two unacquainted men in Russia, which can feel like a test of strength with near bone-crushing results. And there’s a taboo about shaking hands across the threshold of a home: Wait until you are both on the same side of the door.
在欧洲北部大部分地区，陌生人之间一個坚定的握手、朋友间一個简单的亲吻就足够了。不过两个素昧平生的俄罗斯男人不会“坚定”地握手，不然这可能演变成一场较量力气大小的“碎骨”之争。而且在开门后握手还有个忌讳：必须等到两个人都站在门的同一边时，才能握手。
When kisses are called for, where do you aim? In Portugal, the kissing usually progresses from left to right, but in Strasbourg, France, it’s right to left.
当需要亲吻时，你该怎么做呢？在葡萄牙，亲吻通常会由左至右，但在法国的斯特拉斯堡，则是由右至左。
Hands to Yourself
手该怎么放？
Kissing or touching strangers is frowned upon in Asia. The customary greeting in Thailand involves a bow with the palms pressed together, as if in prayer; similar gestures are common from Cambodia to Indonesia.
亲吻或触碰陌生人身体在亚洲是不太可行的。泰国的传统礼仪包括鞠躬并双掌合十，就像在祷告般，类似的手势从柬埔寨到印尼都十分普遍。
In India, a limp handshake between men is fine, but don’t try it with a member of the opposite sex. The traditional way to greet an Indian elder is to bend down and touch his feet.
在印度，软弱无力地握一下手是好的，但切勿在不同性别的人之间尝试。向印度长者打招呼的方式是曲下身并触碰他的脚。