Women are posting messages on social media to show how commonplace sexual assault and harassment are, using the hashtag #MeToo to express that they, too, have been victims of such misconduct.
在社交媒体上，女性正在发布信息，以展示性侵犯和性骚扰的普遍。她们使用#MeToo（我也是）这个标签表示，她们也曾是此类不当行为的受害者。
The messages bearing witness began appearing frequently on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram on Sunday, when the actress Alyssa Milano posted a screenshot outlining the idea and writing “If you’ve been sexually harassed or assaulted write ‘me too’ as a reply to this tweet.”
周日，女星艾丽莎·米兰诺(Alyssa Milano)发布了一张屏幕截图，用文字概述了这个想法：“若你曾受到性侵犯或性骚扰，请用‘我也是’来回复这条推文。”随后，Twitter、Facebook以及Instagram上频频出现见证消息。
Tens of thousands of people replied to the message. Some just wrote “me too,” while many others described their personal experiences of harassment or assault.
成千上百的人回复了这条消息。有些人只写了“我也是”，更多的人讲述了他们各自的性侵犯或性骚扰经历。
The author and poet Najwa Zebian wrote: “I was blamed for it. I was told not to talk about it. I was told that it wasn’t that bad. I was told to get over it.”
作家、诗人那吉娃·依比安(Najwa Zebian)写道：“被指责的是我。人们让我不要谈论这件事，人们对我说这没有多糟糕，人们对我说我应该看淡它。”
Other celebrities who took part include Anna Paquin, Debra Messing, Laura Dreyfuss, Lady Gaga and Evan Rachel Wood.
其他参与的明星包括安娜·帕奎因(Anna Paquin)、黛博拉·梅辛(Debra Messing)、劳拉·德雷福斯(Laura Dreyfuss)、嘎嘎小姐(Lady Gaga)和埃文·蕾切尔·伍德(Evan Rachel Wood)。
Men also expressed their support. The comedian and activist Nick Jack Pappas wrote: “Men, Don’t say you have a mother, a sister, a daughter… Say you have a father, a brother, a son who can do better. We all can.”
男性也表达了支持。喜剧演员、活动家尼克·杰克·派帕斯(Nick Jack Pappas)写道：“男人们，不要说你有妈妈、姐妹、女儿，要说你有一个可以做得更好的父亲、兄弟和儿子。我们都可以。”
Since The New York Times published an investigative report on Oct. 5 detailing decades of sexual harassment allegations against the Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, social media has provided a galvanizing platform for women to discuss their experiences.
自10月5日《纽约时报》发布的调查报告详细记述了好莱坞制片人哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)收到的长达数十年的性骚扰指控后，社交媒体为妇女讨论自身经历提供了一个鼓励性的平台。
Twitter bolstered the #MeToo trend by promoting it on Moments, its platform of curated stories.
Twitter通过在旗下策划故事的平台时刻(Moments)上的推广，支持了#MeToo这一话题。
The company pointed to its statement from last week in which it said it was “proud to empower and support the voices on our platform, especially those that speak truth to power.” It also noted that its chief executive, Jack Dorsey, had tweeted about the company’s efforts to tackle abuse on the site.
该公司指向其上周发表的声明，称它“为能够帮助并支持我们的平台上的声音，特别是那些面对权势说出真相的声音而自豪。”声明同时指出，其首席执行官杰克·多西(Jack Dorsey)已经发布了有关该公司为处理网站上的虐待现象所做的努力的推文。
The #MeToo movement is not the first to use social media to highlight abuse against women. In 2014, a #YesAllWomen campaign drew notice on social media after a man cited his hatred of women as his reason for killing people in Southern California. The activist Laura Bates started the #EverydaySexism campaign in 2012 to document widespread sexism, harassment and assault.
#MeToo运动不是通过社交媒体来强调虐待女性现象的首例。2014年，一名男子以憎恶女性为理由在南加州杀人，随后，社交媒体上的#YesAllWomen（是的，所有女人）活动引起了人们的注意。2012年，活动家劳拉·贝茨(Laura Bates)发起了#EverydaySexism（日常性别歧视）活动，以记录普遍存在的性别歧视、骚扰和侵犯。