MEXICO CITY — It was not long after the first trumpets on Sunday that José Tomás found himself in familiar territory: inches from the vicious horns of a fighting bull, so close they nearly brushed up against the pink silk of his traje de luces, or suit of lights.
墨西哥城——周日，第一串号角吹响后不久，何塞·托马斯(José Tomás)置身于一个熟悉的场景：距离斗牛锋利的牛角只有几英寸，牛角几乎碰到了他身上的粉色丝质斗牛士服。
Careful not to twitch a muscle, which could have been a trigger for the bull to attack him, Tomás stood firm in this dangerous position and alone at the center of the Plaza México, the biggest bullring in the world. Tomás’s cultish followers are called Tomasistas, and the bullring was filled with more than 45,000 spectators, the largest draw for a matador in recent memory.
托马斯小心翼翼，避免任何肌肉颤动，因为这会引发牛的攻击。托马斯坚定地站稳这个危险的位置，独自一人矗立在世界上最大的斗牛场墨西哥广场(Plaza México)的中心。他的狂热粉丝被称为“托马斯教徒”(Tomasistas)。斗牛场里挤满了逾4.5万名观众，是近些年来最具吸引力的斗牛盛会。
All of them were eager to witness the Great One before he decided to retire or before another horn wound ended his career for him.
他们都渴望，在这位伟大的斗牛士决定退休或又一处牛角造成的伤口终结其职业生涯之前，亲眼目睹他的风采。
Tomás, 40, was not like other matadors. He was the embodiment of mystery — in and out of the ring. For years, he has refused to give interviews or to appear on television. You had to see him live to see him at all, and he performed so infrequently, usually once or twice a year, that tickets sold out within hours.
现年40岁的托马斯跟其他斗牛士不同。他是神秘的化身，斗牛场内外都是如此。多年来，他拒绝接受采访或出现在电视节目中。你得到现场才能看到他。托马斯很少表演，通常一年出场一两次，所以票在几个小时内就会售罄。
His mastery, though, was not only in his marketing. Tomás’s performances were savage ballets, a blend of elegance, fearlessness, timing and sacrifice. He seemed determined to pass bulls ever closer to his body, pushing the boundaries of how close a man could get.
但他的精妙之处不仅在于这种营销方式。托马斯的表演就像是野性的芭蕾，融合了优雅、无畏、时机选择和献祭的元素。他似乎决意贴身越过公牛，挑战这种距离的极限。
“He’s a mystic,” Allen Josephs, a professor of literature and Spanish studies at the University of West Florida who has written extensively about matadors and bulls, said in a recent interview for the magazine True.Ink. “We want the great matador to bring the animal in closer and closer and closer. It’s playing with death. Why do we play with death? Because by playing with death, in some ways, we overcome it.”
“他是一个迷，”西佛罗里达大学(University of West Florida)文学与西班牙研究教授阿伦·约瑟夫斯(Allen Josephs)最近接受True.Ink杂志采访时说。“我们希望这位伟大的斗牛士距离公牛近一点，近一点，再近一点。这是在玩命。我们为什么要玩命？因为在某种程度上，我们通过玩命来战胜死亡。”约瑟夫斯写过与斗牛士和公牛有关的大量文章。
By overcoming death, Tomás represented a kind of immortality, and now here he was, swinging the red muleta behind his back, the red furls of the wool cloth slicing through air heavy with cigar smoke as the 1,150-pound Bellotero, his first bull of the afternoon, gazed at his tiny waist. Finally, Tomás made a pass, and the crowd exploded.
通过战胜死亡，托马斯体现了一种永生。此时此刻在这儿，他摆动身后的红布，毛织布料的红色卷边划过弥散着雪茄烟雾的空中，重达1150磅的公牛贝罗特罗(Bellotero)正盯着他的细腰。这是当天下午他遇到的第一头牛。终于，托马斯做了一次成功的闪躲，观众爆发出欢呼声。
Olé!
哦嘞！
Then another pass.
又一次闪躲。
Olé!
哦嘞！
Then he got too close. A horn caught the inside of Tomás’s leg. He crashed to the sand, and the crowd shrieked as the bull’s horns tore away at the back of his thighs.
然而接下来，他离得太近了。一只牛角刺入托马斯的腿部。他重重地倒在沙地中，牛角挑破了他的大腿后侧，观众们尖声叫喊。
As a teenager in a suburb of Madrid, where the bullfighting schools are perhaps the most competitive in Spain, Tomás struggled to attract attention from the bullring promoters, managers and financiers who bankroll young matadors. He moved to Mexico to attract attention and perfected a style of bullfighting so dangerous he has nearly been killed.
马德里的斗牛学校或许是全西班牙竞争最激烈的地方。青少年时期，来自西班牙马德里郊区的托马斯在那里难以吸引到斗牛赛事筹办人、经理及为年轻斗牛士提供资金的投资者的注意。他来到墨西哥以吸引关注，磨练出了一种极其危险的斗牛风格，并差点因此丧命。
In 2010, Tomás had just finished an effortless natural, or left-handed pass, in Aguascalientes, Mexico, when a bull plunged his horn into Tomás’s thigh, punctured the femoral artery and drained much of the blood from his body. For a while, it was unclear whether Tomás would survive.
2010年，托马斯在墨西哥阿瓜斯卡连特斯刚刚毫不费力地完成左转闪躲后，一头牛将角顶入了托马斯的大腿，刺穿他的股动脉，致使大量血液从他的身体流出。有那么一段时间，托马斯能否活下来都是个未知数。
“When your mind has gotten used to the fact that you will die and then you don’t, life turns a different color,” said Antonio Barrera, a matador who sustained countless gorings and nearly bled to death as a teenager with an injury similar to the one Tomás sustained in Aguascalientes. In 2012, Barrera spoke in “Gored,” a coming documentary that captures his final bullfight, about how overcoming death had allowed him to perform with abandon.
“当你的意识习惯了你将死亡的事实，后来却没死，生命就有了不同的色彩，”斗牛士安东尼奥·巴拉雷(Antonio Barrera)说。巴拉雷无数次被刺伤，青少年时期有一次因为伤势过重差点流血致死，与托马斯在阿瓜斯卡连特斯所受的伤类似。2012年，巴拉雷在即将推出的纪录片《刺伤》(Gored)中出镜，讲述了战胜死亡的经历如何使他可以纵情表演。这部纪录片呈现了他最后一场斗牛表演。
“For me, the bull is like a god,” Barrera said. “The wild bull has a lot of values the human being admires: to be fierce, to be impetuous, to have a breed, to have self-esteem, to fight for what you want, to fight for your life. That’s why you consider him a god, and why in many cultures he has been considered a god.”
“对我来说，斗牛就像神一样，”巴拉雷说。“野牛具有很多人类欣赏的品质：凶猛、冲动、有血统、有自尊，为自己想要的东西而战，为生命而战。因此我认为它们是神，而且在很多文化中，公牛也被奉为神。”
In the Plaza México on Sunday, as Tomás lay crumpled in the sand, helpers lured Bellotero away. But not for long. Only a few passes later, Tomás was on the ground again, as the bull hooked his horns underneath the jacket of Tomás’s suit and trampled him. Somehow, the horns missed him, and Tomás went on to register a remarkable performance. His derechazos, or right-hand passes, were long and smooth, and his left-hand passes were timed perfectly.
周日，在墨西哥广场，当托马斯倒在沙地上时，助手们将贝罗特罗引开。但这并没有持续很长时间。短短几次闪躲之后，托马斯再次上场，牛用角勾住了托马斯斗牛士服的上衣，并踩到了他。不过，牛角没有碰触到他，托马斯继续呈现精彩表演。他右转闪躲公牛的动作缓慢且平稳，而左转的时机非常完美。
He then placed the sword cleanly, and earned an ear, or trophy, though the audience was clamoring for two ears, an honor akin to a triumph that would allow him to be carried from the plaza on shoulders.
他后来干净利索地将剑瞄准斗牛，赢得了一只牛耳作为战利品，不过观众们高声要求赢得两只耳朵。那样的话，享有胜利荣耀的托马斯会被人从广场中抬出。
Oddly, it was hard to find any animal rights activists, who have developed a presence in Mexico City, often shouting through their bullhorns that something as cruel as the bullfight should be abolished in places that still hold them: the south of France; Spain, outside of Barcelona; Portugal; Peru; Mexico; Colombia; Ecuador; Guatemala; and Venezuela.
奇怪的是，这里很难找到倡导动物权益的活动人士。他们已经出现在了墨西哥城，经常利用扬声器喊话，宣声那些仍然存在像斗牛这么残忍的行为的地方应该取消相关活动：法国南部、西班牙巴塞罗那郊外、葡萄牙、秘鲁、墨西哥、哥伦比亚、厄瓜多尔和委内瑞拉。
The bullfight here, featuring Tomás and Joselito Adame, a Mexican matador, was the biggest of the winter season, if not the coming year. Before the gates opened, front-row seats were being resold on websites for nearly $8,000 each.
这场以托马斯和墨西哥斗牛士约瑟利托·阿达梅(Joselito Adame)为主角的表演，就算不是2016年最盛大的斗牛赛事，也堪称这个冬季之最。表演开始之前，前排座位的转卖价格在网上炒到了8000美元一张。
Bullfighting may have taken a financial beating in recent years — from protests, prohibitions, the struggles of the Spanish economy — but Tomás has been considered a kind of savior amid the dwindling spectacle, a lone figure who, through his bravery and art, can still inspire a new generation of enthusiasts.
最近几年，斗牛业可谓承受了一些财务上的打击——遭遇抗议、禁令，加之西班牙经济出现困难——但托马斯一直被看作是挽狂澜于既倒的某种救世主，凭借勇敢和不凡的技艺，仍能以一人之力激发新一代观众的热情。
But inside the stadium, as the sun fell and the house lights came on, Tomás struggled. His second bull lacked strength, and despite the engineering of some breathtaking passes, he missed and struggled with his sword, killing poorly.
然而，周日在斗牛场内，太阳落山以后，灯光亮起，托马斯陷入挣扎。他面对的第二头牛缺乏力度，尽管也制造了一些非常惊险的闪避，但他剑使得艰难，有时落空，刺杀技巧并不高超。
And with his last bull, he never had a chance. Once the chute swung open and the animal emerged, the frustrated crowd whistled in protest. The bull, despite its speed, was too small, they felt. A substitute bull was called in. This bull was also small, and lacked strength, and Tomás had no choice but to kill it quickly and register his most disappointing performance in years.
至于最后一头牛，他压根没有机会展现什么技艺。滑道打开，牛一进场，不满的观众就开始吹口哨抗议。他们觉得那头牛尽管速度还行，但体型太小。于是又换了一头。但这头牛体型也小，而且力量也不够，托马斯没办法，只好很快杀死了它，让这场表演成了他多年来最令人失望的一场。
Adame then seized the moment. With the final bull of the day, he executed all the tricks to win the laggard crowd over. He dropped to his knees, spun the capes like pinwheels and got so close he touched the horns with his fingers.
然后，阿达梅抓住了这个时机。在对付当天最后一头牛时，他使出浑身解数来赢得场上失望观众的心。他双膝着地，像五彩转轮一样抖弄他的斗篷，让牛靠得非常近，乃至用手指碰到了它的两只角。
He even attempted a dangerous style of killing called recibiendo, placing the sword as the bull charged into him rather than jumping over the horns. The move capped a performance that lacked Tomás’s poetry but earned Adame a triumphant two ears for excitement. Adame, not Tomás, was carried through the streets as fans reached out to touch his hand, his suit of lights — any part of him. It was as if they were touching a saint.
他甚至还尝试做一种名为“待战”的非常危险的刺杀动作，即在斗牛向他冲过来时进行刺杀，而不是等到跳到牛背后。以这个刺杀动作结束的这场演出，尽管缺乏托马斯那种优雅，但因为非常刺激，也让阿达梅获得了带走两枚牛耳的嘉奖。演出结束后，是阿达梅，而非托马斯，被抬着穿过街道，粉丝们纷纷伸手想要触碰他的手、他的战衣——乃至他身上任何部分——就像是在触碰一个圣人。
Back at his hotel, Tomás emerged to have a late dinner with his handlers. He wore dark jeans, black shoes, a flamenco-style scarf. He was asked how he felt.
回到酒店以后，托马斯和经纪人一起出来吃拖了很久的晚餐。他穿着黑色的牛仔裤和黑色鞋子，配一条弗拉明戈舞风格的围巾。他被问到感觉如何。
“What can one do?” he said in Spanish, shaking his head. He looked sullen and deflated and very much like a typical matador after a rough afternoon — no longer the mysterious god of the bulls so many people had come to see.
“你能怎么办？”他摇着头用西班牙语说。他看起来闷闷不乐，有点泄气，非常像一个度过了一个艰难下午的普通斗牛士——不再是那么多人争相来膜拜的神秘的斗牛之神。