There can be days in this presidential campaign, if not weeks or months or maybe the entire thing, where you find yourself completely lost in dueling or blurry realities. It’s easy to get caught up in whatever is dominating a given moment. Everything gets so big and loud, and the candidates — famous to begin with — cease to even exist as human beings in front of you.
在这次总统大选中，你可能会发现有那么几天，甚至是数周、数月，或许是从头到尾，自己完全迷失在双方的争斗或者模糊不清的现实里。你会不由自主地卷入到占据当下的事件中。一切都变得巨大而喧闹，而候选人——本来就很有名——在你面前时，甚至不再像人类一般。
Early this month, I went to Toledo, Ohio, to meet with Hillary Clinton, to sit down with her for a while and take the measure of her ordeal. It was five weeks before an unnervingly high-stakes Election Day. This is not only for the milestone that Clinton’s election would achieve, and all the cultural Rorschach tests, gender dynamics and political scar tissue embedded within. It’s because of Donald Trump, an astonishing figure unlike any who has ever come close to assuming power in this country.
本月早些时候，我去俄亥俄州的托莱多(Toledo)跟希拉里·克林顿见面，跟她坐下来聊了会儿，谈到了她所经历的严酷考验。那时距离波诡云谲的选举日还有五周的时间。它不仅对于克林顿的选举来说具有里程碑意义，对于文化罗夏测验、性别动态和内嵌的政治瘢痕组织来说，也莫不如此。这都是因为唐纳德·特朗普不同于这个国家历史上任何一个曾经如此接近权力宝座的人。
Clinton had a rally scheduled in a run-down section of Toledo, the northwest Ohio city that ranked as the fourth-most economically distressed of the nation’s 100 largest. It is home to many of the struggling white working-class men who have made Ohio such tough terrain for Clinton and surprisingly fertile for her billionaire opponent.
在全美100座大城市中，位于俄亥俄州西北部的托莱多位居经济最贫困城市的第四名。根据计划，克林顿要在该城一个破败的地段举行一场集会。有许多挣扎度日的白人工人阶层住在那里，正是因为他们，使得俄亥俄州对于克林顿来说，是一个需要打硬仗的地方，但对于她那位亿万富翁对手来说，却令人惊奇地成为他的福地。
After Clinton’s event at an old train station, I was escorted up to an office where she was finishing an interview for “Good Luck America,” a political news show on Snapchat.
克林顿的活动在一个老火车站结束之后，我被带到一间办公室，在那里，她正要结束《好运美国》(Good Luck America)的采访，那是Snapchat上面的一个政治新闻节目。
I had not talked to Clinton in person for more than a year. She was warm and animated, but her eyes hung heavy, and she appeared somewhat worn down, no doubt still feeling some lingering aftereffects of pneumonia. In the same way that presidents seem to age eight years for every four they spend in the White House, you can see the toll this campaign has taken — the surprising challenge of Bernie Sanders, the email story and FBI investigation and Trump’s nothing-off-limits pelting. She sat down next to me at a conference table, slumped back in a swiveling desk chair. Her contempt for Trump was clear from the outset, far more intense than it appears even in speeches and debates. It went well beyond the competitive fervor with which one general-election candidate tends to speak about another. “It does feel much different,” she said. “If I were running against another Republican, we’d have our disagreements, don’t get me wrong, and I would be trying to make my case vigorously. But I wouldn’t go to bed at night with a knot in the pit of my stomach.” She enunciated her T’s (“knoT in the piT”) as if she were spitting out the words.
我有一年多没和克林顿当面交谈过了。她热情而活跃，但两眼耷拉着，看上去有些疲惫。毋庸置疑，她仍能感觉到肺炎留下的一些影响。和总统似乎每在白宫里住四年就要老八岁一样，你能看到这场竞选——伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)出人意料地构成的挑战、电子邮件事件和联邦调查局(FBI)的调查以及特朗普百无禁忌的攻击——造成的后果。她挨着我在会议桌旁的一把旋转办公椅上坐下，重重地向椅背靠去。从一开始，她对特朗普的鄙视就很明显，远比在讲话和辩论中表现的更强烈。那远不是大选候选人在谈到竞争对手时往往会表现出的竞争热情。“的确感觉很不同，”她说。“请不要误会，如果我是在和另一名共和党人竞争，我们也会有分歧，我也会拼命证明自己。但我不会在晚上睡觉的时候感觉胃里像是打了一个结。”她清晰地发出其中的T（“knoT in the piT”），就好像是把这些字从嘴里吐出来。
“I had the opportunity to meet a lot of presidents over the years,” Clinton said. “I’ve had my disagreements with them. But I never doubted for a nanosecond that they got up every morning trying to figure out what was the best path forward for the country.” At least, she added, “they were serious people.”
“在过去多年里，我有幸见到过许多位总统，”克林顿说。“我和他们也有分歧。但我从来没有哪怕一毫微秒怀疑过，他们不是每天早上醒来就在思考，该怎么走才最有利于这个国家。”至少，她接着讲道，“他们是正经人”。
That sense of high moral purpose is evident throughout the campaign. Whenever I visited Clinton’s campaign headquarters in Brooklyn, the youthful energy and confidence of the staff was leavened by a detectably uneasy undercurrent. Either they are helping elect the first female president, assuring her place in history, or they will be the people who lost to Donald Trump. I asked Clinton if Nov. 8 scared her. “No, not really,” she said slowly. I clarified that I was talking about the prospect of her losing. She knew what I was talking about. “I’m not going to lose,” she said. She shot me a knowing grin.
这种有着崇高道德目标之感在她的整个竞选过程中显而易见。每当我拜访克林顿位于布鲁克林的竞选总部时都会发现，在一股可以感觉得到的不安暗流推动下，其幕僚的年轻活力和信心正在发酵。之所以感到不安，是因为他们要么帮忙选出美国第一位女性总统，确保她青史留名；要么就会输给唐纳德·特朗普。我问克林顿，她会不会害怕11月8日的到来。“不，不会，”她慢悠悠地答道。我明确表示我指的是她输掉大选的可能性。她知道我指的是什么。“我不会输的，”她向我会心一笑。
This is the standard politician’s answer when asked to contemplate defeat, but Clinton seemed to mean it. “I don’t go there,” Clinton said. Trump is such an unnerving figure, partly because in getting this far he has already defied so many predictions, largely on the strength of his ability to command the media fun house. This has been the enduring, defining characteristic of the race. His mania for being seen and heard and mentioned has proved exceptionally well suited, maybe codependent, to the current age.
这是被问及对失败的思考时，政治人物会给出的标准答案，不过克林顿似乎是认真的。“我不会走到那一步，”克林顿说。特朗普是一个极其令人不安的人物，在某种程度上是因为他已经打破了那么多预言，在很大程度上则是因为他具有强大的操控媒体的能力，能使其活跃有趣起来。这由始至终一直都是这场比拼的关键特征。他狂热地想让自己被人看见、听到和提及，事实证明，这种狂热与当下这个时代极为契合，也许两者是共生关系。
Trump coined a grand and nostalgic slogan, “Make America Great Again,” easily the most recognizable campaign calling card since “Yes We Can.” When I talked to Clinton, she told me how pleased she was with her own slogan, “Stronger Together.” She was especially proud of how it came out of a deliberative process: grinding out ideas and really figuring out what it was she wanted to stand for. “It’s clunky, but it works,” I said, and she nodded.
特朗普炮制出了一个带有怀旧色彩的宏大口号，“恢复美利坚的伟大荣光”，它轻而易举地成为了继“是的，我们能”以来最有识别度的竞选名片。克林顿的口号则是“团结起来更强大”，她在跟我交谈时告诉我，她对这个口号非常满意。尤其让她引以为豪的是它慎而又慎的出炉过程：冥思苦想，真正厘清她想要主张的东西。“它有些沉闷，但管用，”我说。她点了点头。
“It works,” she said with a hint of defensiveness, “in part because I really believe it, OK? How do we get people to overcome these barriers?”
“它管用，”她的话带着点儿辩护的意味，“在某种程度上是因为我真的相信它，好吗？我们怎么才能帮助人们克服这重重阻碍？”
Clinton has worked closely with (and married) some of the most gifted orators and “explainers” of recent political memory — Obama, Joe Biden and Bill. All three are deft at relaying big themes and small narratives alike. Clinton, for her part, is stubbornly cautious and on script, banking on the notion that real-life concerns of voters and tangible benefits of her proposals will win out in the end over spectacle. “At the end of the day, people are going to vote on Nov. 8,” she told me. “And like it or not, issues will actually be part of governing.” Her approach doesn’t make for the best TV, but her years in public life have made her wary of any exposure, especially when she does not control it. Scrutiny is dangerous, and disclosure is rarely rewarded. If Trump views the media as a vehicle to express his id, Clinton is all superego. She has been happy to leave that field to him, even if it makes her boring, or even ignored.
克林顿一直与近些年的政坛中几位最有天分的演说家和“解释者”——奥巴马、乔·拜登(Joe Biden)以及比尔——有着密切的合作（还嫁给了其中一位）。这三个人都同时擅长大主题和小叙事。至于克林顿自己，则极为谨慎、中规中矩。她相信，选民对现实生活的担忧以及她那些提案所附带的实实在在的好处终将胜过宏大叙事。“到最后，人们会在11月8日投出选票，”她告诉我。“不管喜不喜欢，问题实际上都是治国理政的一部分。”她的行事方式不会让她在电视上有什么精彩表现，但她多年的从政经验让她对任何形式的曝光都很警惕，尤其是在事情不受她控制的时候。大众的审视是危险的，披露内幕极少获得回报。如果说特朗普把媒体视为展现自我的工具，克林顿所展现的就全都是超我。她乐于把那个领域留给他，即便这会让她显得无聊，甚至是被忽略。
Trump, of course, both shares and feeds his audience’s addiction to stimuli and entertainment. Early in the campaign, during the Republican primaries, he would pretty much say yes to anyone who wanted to put him on TV or in a magazine. He was indefatigable in reaching out to reporters, lobbying for coverage. He can be undeniably fun and, to a point, seductive.
特朗普的拥护者沉迷于刺激和娱乐，而特朗普本人既和他们有着相同的嗜好，又为他们的这种倾向推波助澜。刚参加竞选时，在共和党党内初选期间，他几乎对想要让他在电视节目中或杂志上露脸的人来者不拒。他乐此不疲地争取记者们的支持，游说他们报道他。不可否认，他可以表现得非常有趣，在某种程度上还很富于魅力。
Clinton is the anti-Trump. She is not a political novelty, nor is she especially entertaining as a media personality or in front of big groups. She and her campaign know this and have been smart about not pretending otherwise. Trump’s big shadow and outrage machine have even allowed her to become slightly and perhaps blissfully lost; to fade, if not into obscurity, at least into a background that cuts the glare of the scrutiny to which she has been so averse. In a sense, she is daring voters to study her positions, listen to her answers and not look to her for entertainment or emotional impact. In 2016, that can seem almost risky.
克林顿是特朗普的对立面。她不是政坛新秀，作为公众人物或是面对大规模的人群时也不是特别有趣。她和她的竞选团队知道这一点，并且明智地没有去装出另一种样子。特朗普的巨大阴影和愤怒机器甚至让她变得稍微有点迷惘，这或许是好事。她渐渐消失了，就算没有彻底默默无闻，至少也成了一个背景。这减少了她极其不喜欢的密切审视。在某种意义上，克林顿是在刺激选民研究她的立场、倾听她的答案，并且不要指望从她这里获得娱乐或情感冲击。在2016年，这可能看上去几乎是在冒险。
“I’ve laid out all of these policies, and look, people kind of made fun of it, because ‘Oh, there she goes with another policy,' ” Clinton told me. “I’m trying to run a campaign that presents an alternative case.” It’s telling that a candidate with the name recognition, résumé and baggage of Hillary Clinton is nonetheless left to present her campaign as an “alternative case.”
“我阐明了所有这些政策，却看到人们差不多是在拿它开开涮，因为‘哎哟，她又拿出了一项政策，’”克林顿对我说。“我在努力进行一场能够提供一个替代方案的竞选。”一个有着希拉里·克林顿的知名度、履历和资源的候选人，被迫要把自己的竞选描述成一个“替代方案”，这是很说明问题的。
“My husband and I laugh sometimes about the ‘Antiques Roadshow,' ” Clinton told me, referring to the PBS show about antique appraisers that she watches devoutly. “Sometimes we feel like we are the antiques on a roadshow when it comes to politics.”
“我丈夫和我有时候会在看《鉴宝路演》(Antiques Roadshow)时发笑，”克林顿说的是自己很喜欢看的一档关于古董鉴定的PBS节目。“有时候，我们感觉说到政治，我们自己就是节目现场的古董。”
Clinton recently told a rally crowd in North Carolina that her many years in politics had taken a toll on her. “I’ve built up some defenses,” she said, in a line that was, for her, self-revelatory. “When it comes to public service,” she said, “I’m better at the service part than the public part.” Clinton has thought a great deal about the isolation that public life can foster. This can even be exacerbated by new technology tools — like smartphones — that can theoretically nurture connections but can also depersonalize encounters between citizens and public figures.
前不久，克林顿对北卡罗来纳州的集会人群表示，多年的从政经历对她造成了一些影响。“我树起了一些防御，”她说。对她来说，这算是吐露心声。“说到公共服务，”她说。“我更擅长服务，而不是公共。”克林顿对公共生活可能会带来的隔离做了很多思考。新的科技工具，如智能手机甚至可能会加剧这种隔离。它们理论上能够促进联系，但也能把公民和公众人物的接触非人化。
Outside her plane after a speech in Tampa, Florida, a few days earlier, Clinton stopped for a few minutes under a wing to chat and take pictures with the photographers in her press entourage. Clinton talked about how the phenomenon of “selfies” has transformed her encounters with voters. She was always adept at drawing quick connections with people she met on rope lines. Even in the briefest of exchanges, they would tell her their stories. I had observed Clinton in many rope lines over the years, and I can attest that she’s effective in those settings, though not at the level of her flesh-pressing demon of a husband.
几天前，结束了在佛罗里达州坦帕的演讲后，克林顿上飞机前在机翼下停留了几分钟，和随行的媒体工作人员中的摄影师聊天并合影。克林顿谈到了“自拍”现象如何改变了自己和选民之间的见面。她一向擅长迅速和警戒线外的人建立感情。即便交流非常简短，他们也会向她说出自己的故事。过去这些年里，我多次观察过克林顿和警戒线外的人交流的情形。我可以证明她在这些场合非常高效，不过还没达到她丈夫那种充满活力地与人握手的水平。
“I got a lot out of these short meetings, holding somebody’s hand, having somebody tell me about their problems, addiction, losing a job,” Clinton told me when I spoke to her in Toledo. “I thought of it like an ongoing educational experience.” She misses that, she said, because now such encounters are driven by one all-encompassing goal: the selfie.
“我从这些简短的见面中学到了很多，和人们握手，让他们告诉我他们的问题，毒瘾，失业，”我们在托莱多交谈时克林顿对我说。“我觉得那就像一种持续的教育经历。”她说那是她怀念的东西，因为现在，这种见面的背后只有一个吞没了一切的动机：自拍。
“It’s a loss,” Clinton said. She understands why people want selfies. “It makes my time at the event with them real. Put it on Facebook, and show it to everyone who follows them on Instagram, everyone they can reach.” She prefers the handwritten notes she used to get a lot more of, everything from little scraps of paper to several-page stacks of loose-leaf. They all bore the script of individual Americans wanting to tell her about their lives.
“这是一种损失，”克林顿说。她理解人们为什么想得到自拍照。“它让我和他们一起参加活动的时间变得真实。把它放在Facebook上，让Instagram上关注他们的所有人，他们能接触到的所有人看到。”她自己更喜欢手写的内容。过去，她会收到很多，从小纸片到好几页活页纸，上面是一个个美国人的笔迹，他们想向她讲述自己生活中的故事。
“This sounds a little extreme to say, but it’s like an evolutionary development, right?” Clinton told me. Your communities should begin small, she said, in terms that precisely echoed those set out in her 1996 book, “It Takes a Village.” You form identities in your family, she said, and then in your neighborhood and in wider communities. “It was all person to person, and you learned to deal with people, for better or worse,” she said. She contrasted this with modern social-media cultures. People use the terms “friends” and “followers” to describe people they have never met, whose identities they think they know but may not even be real. “And you are having emotional and intellectual experiences,” Clinton said, “that are unlike anything that’s ever happened in the entirety of human history.”
“这听起来有点极端，但它就像进化发展，对吧？”克林顿对我说。她说，你的社区必须从小规模开始发展——这跟她在1996年的书《举全村之力：希拉里谈教育》(It Takes a Village)中陈述的理念完全相同。她说，你的身份最初在家庭中形成，然后是在邻里，在更大的社区。“过去，它完全是通过面对面的方式，不管怎样，你学习跟人打交道，”她说。她将这种方式与现代社交媒体文化相比较。人们用“朋友”和“粉丝”这样的词来描述从未见过的人，以为自己知道那些人的身份，但那些身份甚至可能并不真实。“你的确获得了情绪和智识方面的经历，”克林顿说，“而且与整个人类历史上的任何经历都不同。”
Like the culture it is playing out in, this presidential campaign has existed in a racing progression of flash images and snap judgments. Personal narratives get lost, while a candidate’s can become warped through the vertigo. We might be as interconnected as ever but starved for connections, Clinton says. Trump, perhaps tellingly, is not much for hearing voters’ stories. He rarely does retail stops and hates shaking hands. He tweets at all hours and constantly watches himself on television. He is in so many ways the anti-Hillary.
这场总统大选一如它所身处的大文化环境一样，也被飞速前进的闪现图像和仓促判断所淹没。个人陈述被淹没不见，而候选人的陈述可能在一片眩晕中变得扭曲。克林顿称，我们可能比以往都更具互联性，但却缺乏关联。特朗普对倾听选民的故事没有多大兴趣——这一点可能很明显。他很少与单个选民直接沟通，讨厌跟人握手。他总是在发推文，不停地观看自己在电视上的表现。他在很多方面跟克林顿是截然相反的。
At the end of our conversation in Toledo, I asked Clinton if she thought the resentment sowed and fissures exposed in the course of this campaign would make the United States an even harder country to govern. “No, we face some hard choices,” she began, and I immediately smirked — “Hard Choices” was the title of her 2014 memoir on her years as secretary of state, and I figured she was clicking into huckster and sound-bite mode. But then she veered in a direction that surprised me.
我们在托莱多的谈话快结束时，我询问克林顿是否认为这次竞选中散布的怨恨和暴露的分歧会让美国变成一个更难管理的国家。“不，我们面临一些艰难抉择，”她说。我马上会意地笑了——她2014年出版的一本关于其国务卿经历的回忆录就叫《艰难抉择》(Hard Choices)——我以为她要宣传引述书中的精彩片段。但她却转向一个令我意外的方向。
“There are some difficult trends, which are not primarily political,” Clinton told me. “They are more cultural, psychological, and we just have to deal with them.” Earlier she had mentioned the 1985 book “Amusing Ourselves to Death,” by Neal Postman, about how television has oriented politics more and more toward entertainment. She also cited the historian Christopher Lasch, the author of “The Culture of Narcissism.” The authors, she said, “were trying to come to grips, before the internet, trying to understand what was happening in our society, that we are experiencing a level of alienation, disconnectedness.”
“有些棘手的潮流主体上不是政治方面的，”克林顿对我说，“更多的是文化、心理方面的，但我们必须去应对它们。”之前，她曾提到，尼尔·波兹曼(Neal Postman)1985年的书《娱乐至死》(Amusing Ourselves to Death)谈到电视越来越多地将政治变为娱乐。她还引用了史学家克里斯托弗·拉什(Christopher Lasch)的话，后者是《自恋主义文化：心理危机时代的美国生活》(The Culture of Narcissism)的作者。她说，这些作者“当时在努力应对，在互联网之前，努力理解我们的社会正在发生的事情，我们正经历一定程度的疏远和分离”。
She told me that her primary objective as president would be to encourage connectedness, to have actual conversations. Clinton has always preferred to build narratives from a granular level: start with details and allow a message to emerge more slowly. She has no patience for messianic rhetoric and hyperbolic slogans and grandiose speeches. It can make her an awkward fit in this campaign environment, harder to break through and determinedly not dazzling.
她对我说，她当选总统后的首要目标将是鼓励联系，进行真正的交谈。克林顿总是更喜欢从细微之处开始讲述：从细节开始，让信息慢慢呈现。她对救世主似的言辞、夸张的口号和浮夸的演讲没有耐心。这可能会让她不太适应这个竞选环境，更难实现突破，毅然决然地不那么炫目。
But Clinton said that the key to building connectedness lies in a leader’s ability to knit together a sense of common destiny from the ground up. “It requires real storytelling,” she said. “And I think as president, I can tell that story. It’s harder as a candidate.” I had often heard the exact opposite. In Obama’s first term, his aides lamented that it was much easier to tell stories and drive a message in a campaign context than from the White House. As president, they said, you are constantly reacting to things and largely at the mercy of events — “governing in prose,” as opposed to “campaigning in poetry,” to adapt the old line from Mario Cuomo.
不过，克林顿称，建立联系的关键在于领导人自下而上地建立一种共同使命感的能力。“它要求真正的故事讲述能力，”她说。“我觉得作为总统我能讲述那个故事。作为候选人难度更大。”我以前听到的话往往正好与此相反。在奥巴马的第一个任期，他的助手们叹息称，在竞选时讲述故事、传递信息比在白宫要容易得多。他们称，作为总统，你在不断对事情作出回应，大多是受事件支配——套用马里奥·科莫(Mario Cuomo)的老话，“竞选靠诗歌”，“执政凭散文”。
Clinton envisions a model more suited to her skills and comforts. It also could portend a very different style of president — without the sweeping themes of Barack Obama, the moral certainty of George W. Bush or the explanatory clarity of Bill Clinton. Can Hillary Clinton do a better job inspiring people from the White House than she has from the campaign stage? Would it become easier or harder to do without Trump around to embody everything she has ever opposed and scare the daylights out of her base? “Don’t blow this” is what Clinton hears most often these days, she told me, or variations thereof. As it has turned out, Clinton, who began her campaign intent on breaking the last barrier — the glass ceiling — has found her most compelling rationale in her own role as a barrier, a bulwark against the impossible alternative. As I was leaving our interview, she smiled, looked me in the eyes and left me with a casual reminder. “As I’ve told people,” she said, “I’m the last thing standing between you and the apocalypse.”
克林顿设想了一个更适合自己技能、更让自己舒适的模式。它也可能预示着一个非常不同的总统风格——没有贝拉克·奥巴马的宏大主题，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的道德确定性或比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的阐述透彻性。希拉里·克林顿在白宫能比在竞选舞台上更鼓舞人心吗？没有特朗普在旁边代表她所反对过的一切、恐吓支持她的选民，她会更轻松还是更艰难？“不要搞砸了”——克林顿对我说，她最近听到最多的就是这句话，或者类似的话。在竞选之初，克林顿下定决心打破最后一道障碍——玻璃天花板。结果却发现，让她当选总统的最有说服力的理由竟是去成为一道障碍、一个堡垒，抵御那个让人全然无法接受的替代选择。我结束采访要离开时，她微笑着，看着我的眼睛，留给我一句随意的提醒。“就像我对人们说的，”她说，“我是挡在你们和世界末日之间的最后一道屏障。”