WEST POINT, N.Y. — It was 6:30 a.m. at the U.S. Military Academy, the sun was rising over the Hudson River, and Paula Broadwell was in athletic gear. With a half-dozen women, she rotated between sprints and burpees. Sweating onto the pavement, the group was perched atop an overlook called Trophy Point, in the shadow of a 46-foot battle monument memorializing those killed in the Civil War. There is a female statue in bronze at the top, arms outstretched regally, who is said to represent “fame.”
纽约州西点——在凌晨6点半的西点军校，太阳正在从哈德逊河上升起。葆拉·布罗德韦尔(Paula Broadwell)身着运动服，和六名女子一起，交替进行全速奔跑和蹲起跳。她们在名为战胜纪念点(Trophy Point)的高处歇脚，身上的汗滴落在地面。这个位置处在一座用以纪念内战阵亡者的纪念碑的阴影之中，碑高46英尺（约合14米）。它的顶部立着一尊女性青铜雕塑，她的胳膊颇有气势地伸展着。据说她代表着“名声”。
Broadwell was here in April for a 40th anniversary celebration for the academy’s first class of women, who enrolled two decades before she would graduate at the top of her class, with multiple varsity letters. It was also the first time she had been back to campus since 2012, when she achieved her own kind of unwanted fame.
布罗德韦尔是在今年4月来到这里，为的是参加西点军校招收第一届女学员40周年纪念活动。第一批前辈踏入校园20年后，布罗德韦尔以拔尖的成绩从这里毕业，手握多项荣誉证书。自2012年以自己并不想要的方式出名之后，这也是她第一次返回母校。
Yes, this is thatPaula Broadwell, the mentee-turned-biographer of David Petraeus; the West Point graduate and military intelligence officer who was revealed, through a high-profile FBI investigation, to have had a romantic relationship with Petraeus, a former CIA director and the highest-profile general from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. This is also the Paula Broadwell who would be publicly portrayed as a “homewrecker,” a “stalker,” a “temptress,” the woman who “brought down the director of the CIA.” And, perhaps with the most frequency, as the “mistress,” a word for which there is no male equivalent.
是的，她就是那个最初以戴维·彼得雷乌斯(David Petraeus)为导师、后来成为他的传记作者的葆拉·布罗德韦尔；那个被联邦调查局(FBI)一项引人注目的调查曝光与中央情报局(CIA)前局长、曾担任美国驻伊拉克和阿富汗部队最高将领的彼得雷乌斯存在婚外情的西点军校毕业生和军事情报员。她也是那个被公开描绘成“破坏别人家庭的人”、“跟踪狂”、“狐狸精”和“将CIA局长拉下马”的女人葆拉·布罗德韦尔。她最常听到的称呼或许是“情妇”，而这是一个在英文里没有男性对应称谓的词。
As far as infidelity scandals go, this one had everything. He, with a doctorate from Princeton University, was the revered “thinking man’s general”: honorable, visionary, charismatic, credited with turning around the failing war effort in Iraq and doing more one-armed pushups than anyone his colleagues knew. “There was talk,” The Washington Post put it, “that, one day, King David would be president.” (Through his lawyer, David Kendall, Petraeus declined to comment for this article.)
从不忠丑闻的角度讲，他们的婚外情涵盖所有的元素。他拥有普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)的博士学位，被尊称为“有思想的将军”：值得尊敬；目光远大；充满魅力；被认为扭转了伊拉克战争的败局；在他同事眼中是能连续做单手俯卧撑次数最多的人。“有传言说，”《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)称，“有一天，大卫王(King David)会成为总统。”（彼得雷乌斯通过律师大卫·肯德尔[David Kendall]拒绝就本文发表评论。）
She was the younger, equally ambitious overachiever: Olympic-distance triathlete; two master’s degrees; deputy director of the center on counterterrorism at Tufts University; a research associate at Harvard University, where she had first met the general six years before. “She was a standout,” said Sue Fulton, a former military captain and member of the first class of women at West Point, who later became a friend.
她是年纪更轻、同样雄心勃勃的超级优等生：奥运会距离(Olympic-distance)的铁人三项选手；拥有两个硕士学位；塔夫茨大学(Tufts University)的反恐中心副主任；哈佛大学(Harvard University)的助理研究员，6年前她在那里初次遇见将军。“她很出色，”前美军陆军上尉苏·富尔顿(Sue Fulton)说。富尔顿是西点军校的首批女学员之一，后来成为布罗德韦尔的朋友。
There was hubris: the man tasked with guarding the nation’s secrets revealing them; a woman who had achieved incredible journalistic access committing the ultimate journalistic sin. Another friend of the general, Jill Kelley, also became tangled up in the coverage after she reported to the FBI that she was getting harassing emails. Investigators later learned they were sent by Broadwell under a pseudonym. (Broadwell, now 43, declined to comment on the emails, other than to say that she regretted sending them; Kelley said the two have never spoken directly.)
还有狂妄：这个肩负保卫美国秘密的男人泄露了秘密；这个获得惊人新闻渠道的女人做下了最违背新闻职业道德的事情。将军的另一位朋友吉尔·凯利(Jill Kelley)向联邦调查局(FBI)报告自己收到骚扰邮件之后也卷入其中。调查者后来发现，那些邮件是布罗德韦尔匿名发送的（现年43岁的布罗德韦尔拒绝就那些邮件发表评论，只是表示后悔；凯利说，她们俩从未直接谈过这件事）。
The downfall was swift: Petraeus, now 63, resigned, apologized to the Senate Armed Services Committee and later pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of mishandling classified material related to eight personal notebooks he had shared with Broadwell. For two months, he remained home in isolation — reading, communicating with friends and pedaling on his exercise bike. “One foot in front of the other, one day at a time,” Peter Mansoor, a military historian who was Petraeus’ right-hand man in Iraq, recalled Petraeus as saying. He was sentenced last April to two years’ probation and a $100,000 fine. Broadwell was never charged.
倒台的速度很快：现年63岁的彼得雷乌斯辞职，向参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)致歉，后来承认处理机密资料不当——主要涉及他共享给布罗德韦尔的8本笔记本。有两个月时间，他足不出户——读书、跟朋友交流、骑健身脚踏车。“走一步算一步，过一天算一天，”军事史学家彼得·曼苏尔(Peter Mansoor)记得彼得雷乌斯当时这样说。他是彼得雷乌斯在伊拉克的得力助手。去年4月，彼得雷乌斯被判两年缓刑，并处罚金10万美元。布罗德韦尔从未遭到指控。
Nearly four years later, Petraeus is a partner in a New York private equity firm and has advised the White House on the war against the Islamic State group. He publishes op-ed articles, speaks publicly and has affiliations with three universities, including Harvard. He was recently listed among five former military leaders suggested by a Washington Post columnist whom Republicans might have considered drafting for president.
近四年后，彼得雷乌斯成为纽约一家私募股权公司的合伙人，并在白宫担任对抗伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的战争顾问。他发表评论文章，进行公开演讲，供职于包括哈佛在内的三所大学。最近，他被《华盛顿邮报》的一名专栏作家列为共和党可能支持的参与总统竞选的五位前军事领导人之一。
“I wouldn’t be the least bit surprised to see him in some senior role in the next administration, Democratic or Republican,” said Vernon Loeb, managing editor at the Houston Chronicle, with whom Broadwell wrote her biography of Petraeus.
“如果他在下届政府中担任高级职位，我一点都不会感到吃惊——不管是民主党还是共和党政府，”《休斯敦纪事报》(Houston Chronicle)总编弗农·洛布(Vernon Loeb)说。他和布罗德韦尔共同撰写彼得雷乌斯的传记。
Broadwell has struggled to find her footing. For weeks, reporters camped outside her home in Charlotte, North Carolina, where she was trying to restore her marriage. Friends sent over groceries and hot meals for her family — her husband Scott and sons, 8 and 10 — and staged interference so Paula Broadwell could cut across her neighbors’ lawns, climbing over fences, to escape for a morning run.
布罗德韦尔挣扎着应对。有好几周的时间，记者们驻扎在她位于北卡罗来纳州夏洛特市的屋外。当时她在努力挽救自己的婚姻。朋友们给她和丈夫斯科特(Scott)，以及分别8岁和10岁的两个儿子送来日用品和热食，并且挡开记者，好让她抄近路穿过邻居家的草坪，翻过篱笆，进行晨跑。
She lost her military security clearance; her promotion from major to lieutenant colonel was revoked when the news broke. The FBI still has her computers — including her dissertation research — and she withdrew from her doctorate program. She said she was told in more than one job interview that, while she was qualified, hiring her would be a public-relations nightmare.
新闻曝出后，她被剥夺接触军事机密的权利，从少校到中校的提升也被撤回。联邦调查局依然持有她的电脑——里面有她的论文研究——她放弃了博士学位课程。她说，自己不止一次在面试中被告知，虽然她能够胜任，但雇佣她会带来严重的公关问题。
Four years on, her name still pops up in the news with regularity. She tracks these references with precision. She said that every time there is a new development — a legal update, Petraeus’ sentencing, the recently self-published memoir by the woman on the receiving end of her emails — she is reminded that for him, the affair is a footnote to an otherwise celebrated career. But for her — not as decorated, not as public, but still accomplished in her own right — it has become a lasting stain.
四年来，她的名字仍不断出现在新闻中。她仔细查看那些新闻。她说，每次出现新情况——法律诉讼方面的进展、彼得雷乌斯的宣判、收到她邮件的那个女人自费出版的回忆录——她都会被提醒，对他来说，那段婚外情是一段本来会功成名就的职业生涯的脚注。但是对她来说——她虽然不像他那么出名，没有受到那么多赞誉，但也有自己的成就——那是永远的污点。
“I’m the first to admit I screwed up,” Broadwell said. “Really badly, I know that. But how long does a person pay for their mistake?”
“我是第一个承认自己做错了的人，”布罗德韦尔说，“错得很严重，我知道。但是一个人要为自己犯的错惩罚多久？”
That seems to be the question of the moment, in an age when one mistake can permanently cement your reputation. But the shame of the mistress is a particular category. Donna Rice, Monica Lewinsky, Rielle Hunter ... the names have come to represent a kind of archetype.
在一个错误能永远影响你声誉的年代——这似乎是当下的一个问题。但是情妇的耻辱是个特别的类型。唐娜·赖斯(Donna Rice)、莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)、丽尔·亨特(Rielle Hunter)……这些名字已经成为典型代表。
“That may be, in part, an unfair standard between men and women caught in an affair,” said David Bradley, the chairman of Atlantic Media who knew Petraeus and Broadwell and once sat down with Broadwell to offer professional advice. In the aftermath, he reached out to both by email to offer sympathy and support. “But, I think it’s equally the danger — the white-hot danger — for the private citizen caught in an affair with a public figure.”
“在某种程度上，这跟陷入婚外情的男女受到的待遇不同有关，”大西洋传媒公司(Atlantic Media)主席戴维·布拉德利(David Bradley)说。他认识彼得雷乌斯和布罗德韦尔，曾给后者提供过职业建议。事后，他分别写邮件给俩人，表示同情和支持。“但是，我认为，普通人与公众人物陷入婚外情也同样危险——非常危险。”
And then there was the — in hindsight — unfortunate title of Broadwell’s book, “All In: The Education of General David Petraeus.” There were porn parodies and a “Saturday Night Live” skit in which a buttoned-up book event is actually a live reading of a steamy sex scene. There were rape and death threats, one sent in a handwritten letter to her home. Her Facebook page still vacillates between, “You ruined America!” and “Will you go out on a date with me?”
事后看，布罗德韦尔那本书的名字《全力以赴：戴维·彼得雷乌斯将军的教育》(All In: The Education of General David Petraeus)也取得不巧。人们拿这个书名进行色情嘲讽。在《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)的一个小品中，貌似庄重的读书会实际上是绘声绘色地朗读一段火热的性爱场面。她还收到过强奸和死亡威胁，有一封是手写的，送到了她家里。她的Facebook主页仍会收到“你毁了美国！”和“你愿意和我约会吗？”这样的留言。
“I think the worst feeling is when you don’t have control over your life,” Broadwell said. She was sitting on the couch in her living room in Charlotte while her children were at school. “And that’s what this felt like.”
“我觉得，最糟糕的是你无法控制自己的生活那种感觉，”布罗德韦尔说。当时她坐在夏洛特市自家客厅的沙发上，孩子们去上学了。“这件事就给人就是这种感觉。”
These days, her coping mechanism is to stay busy. She is on the board of multiple local leadership organizations, and she is a member of an opera club. She volunteers for a group that provides safe houses for human trafficking victims, another that helps veterans rehabilitate. She drops off her sons at the bus stop each day then goes for a morning run. She continues to push for women in combat and is active in a group called West Point Women, which planned the event at her alma mater.
如今，她的应对方法是保持忙碌。她是多个地方领导机构的理事，也是一家歌剧俱乐部的成员。她在一个给贩卖人口受害者提供安全住所的组织以及一个帮助退伍军人康复的组织里担任志愿者。每天，她开车把儿子们送到校车站，然后去晨跑。她继续为女兵参与作战而奔走，并在一个名为西点女性(West Point Women)的组织中表现活跃——在她母校举办的这场活动就是该组织策划的。
She is emotional when she speaks about the Charlotte community that embraced her family. But she is torn: Should she try to reclaim her past — her dream of becoming a national security adviser — or should she pursue something entirely different? Should she fight to restore her military status, or simply move on?
她谈起社区对她一家的接受时，情绪激动。但她现在犹豫不决：她是应该努力找回自己的过去——追求成为国家安全顾问的梦想——还是应该追求完全不同的梦想？她是应该努力恢复自己的军籍，还是干脆另谋职业？
“The truth is, the military is not a place where you can rehabilitate,” she said. “There’s a ‘Zero Defects’ policy — that’s military code. So the whole redemption thing? It’s not common.
“事实是，军队不是一个你能康复的地方，”她说，“那里执行的是‘零缺陷’政策，那是军规。所以赎罪这回事并不普遍。”
“My husband says I just need to walk away,” she continued. “Sue Fulton says I needs to fight back. My lawyers — I literally ask them, ‘What would you tell me to do if I were your daughter?’ Some days I think, if I could just move on and it was never again in the news, I probably would. But I can’t. My fabric is to fight back.”
“我丈夫认为，我只需要离开，”她继续说道，“苏·富尔顿认为，我需要反击。我的律师们——我直接问他们，‘如果我是你们的女儿，你们会让我怎么做？’有时我想，如果我另谋职业，那件事就永远不会再出现在新闻里，那么我很可能会那样做。但我不能。我的个性是要反击。”