LOS ANGELES – Talk about two itsy-bitsy guys climbing up the Hollywood spout: Sony Pictures and Marvel Studios on Tuesday announced that they had handed the next big-budget Spider-Man movie to an unknown director, Jon Watts, and that a little-known British actor, Tom Holland, had been cast in the title role.
洛杉矶——两位小巧可爱的男人搭上了好莱坞的快车：星期二，索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)和曼威工作室(Marvel Studios)宣布，他们已将下一步大成本的《蜘蛛侠》电影交给了一位名不见经传的导演乔恩·沃茨(Jon Watts)，而一位鲜为人知的英国演员汤姆·赫兰德(Tom Holland)将饰演主角蜘蛛侠。
Mr. Holland beat out a half-dozen young actors to become the next Spider-Man. He began his career in the London version of the musical “Billy Elliot” and has since had supporting roles in the mini-series “Wolf Hall” and the foreign film “The Impossible.” He will appear in the forthcoming drama “In the Heart of the Sea,” directed by Ron Howard.
赫兰德击败了其他六位年轻的演员，当选了下一任蜘蛛侠的扮演者。他的演艺生涯开始于伦敦版的《比利·艾略特》(Billy Elliot，又译为《舞动人生》)，其后又在迷你剧《狼厅》(Wolf Hall)和外语片《海啸奇迹》(The Impossible)中担任配角。他也即将出现在一部由朗·霍华德(Ronn Howard)执导的剧情片《大洋深处》(In the Heart of the Sea)之中。
We saw many terrific young actors, but Tom’s screen tests were special,” Thomas E. Rothman, chairman of the Sony Motion Pictures Group, said in a statement.Mr. Watts is even more obscure. He has directed episodes of the satirical IFC show “The Onion News Network,” but his feature film experience is limited to two small-budget movies. The first one, an R-rated horror movie called “Clown,” did not manage a theatrical release in the United States, according to Rentrak, which compiles box office data. The second, “Cop Car,” an R-rated thriller starring Kevin Bacon, is scheduled for release from a division of Focus Features on Aug. 7.
“我们见到了许多极好的年轻演员，但汤姆的试镜十分特别，”索尼电影集团主席托马斯·E·罗斯曼(Thomas E. Rothman)在声明中这样说道。而沃茨的当选就更加出人意料了。他曾执导过几集IFC的讽刺剧《洋葱新闻网》(The Onion News Network)，但他导演电影的经验仅限于两部小成本影片。他的第一部电影是限制级恐怖片《小丑》(Clown)，但根据Rentrak公司提供的票房数据，这部电影并未在美国院线上映。他的第二部电影《警车》(Cop Car)是一部限制级惊悚片，由凯文·贝肯(Kevin Bacon)主演。这部影片计划于8月7日由焦点影业(Focus Features)的一个部门发行。
“I’ve worked with a number of up-and-coming directors who have gone on to be superstars and believe that Jon is just such an outstanding talent,” Mr. Rothman said.
“我和许多大有前途或已经成为巨星的导演们都相信，乔恩是个非常杰出的天才，”罗斯曼说。
Marvel has found success in the past with novice directors, but Sony’s recent efforts to give Spider-Man a new cinematic life did not deliver the stratospheric box-office results needed to justify its enormous cost. The studio is now trying a do-over, this time with Marvel along to help. The next Spider-Man movie, produced by Kevin Feige and Amy Pascal, is scheduled for release in July 2017.
曼威曾在新导演的选用上获得过成功，但近期索尼为了给蜘蛛侠注入新的电影生命所做的尝试却没能获得很好的票房回报，也因此没能平衡巨大的支出。现在，在曼威的协助下，索尼工作室正在尝试返工。下一部蜘蛛侠电影将由凯文·菲格(Kevin Feige)和埃米·帕斯卡尔(Amy Pascal)担任制片，预计将在2017年七月上映。