BEIJING — New York City, already a top international tourist destination, has a message for visitors from China: There’s more to see than the Empire State Building and Times Square.
北京——纽约市已经是国际旅游的首选目的地之一，该市向中国游客发出一条讯息：除了帝国大厦和时报广场，纽约还有其他值得看的地方。
To spread that message and appeal to the growing number of Chinese tourists heading abroad, the city has named the superstar Chinese pianist Lang Lang as its first “cultural tourism ambassador.”
为了传播这条讯息，并吸引越来越多出国旅游的中国客人前往该市，纽约任命了华人钢琴巨星郎朗为该市的首位“文化旅游大使”。
At a ceremony outside Steinway Hall in Manhattan on Tuesday — or “Lang Lang Day,” as proclaimed by Mayor Bill de Blasio — the musician was presented with a personalized double-decker bus featuring his photo in front. The event was timed to coincide with the release last week of Mr. Lang’s latest album, “New York Rhapsody,” billed as a love letter to the city where Mr. Lang, 34, maintains a residence.
本周二，在曼哈顿的施坦威音乐厅外举行的一个仪式上，纽约市长比尔·德布拉西奥(Bill de Blasio)宣布当天为“郎朗日”，并推出了一辆前面印有郎朗照片的个性化双层巴士。此次活动的时间与郎朗最新专辑《纽约狂想曲》(New York Rhapsody)上周的发布相配合，该专辑被称为写给纽约的一封情书。郎朗现年34岁，在纽约有一处居所。
“This is part of an effort to grow Chinese travelers coming to New York,” said Christopher Heywood, senior vice president of global communications for NYC & Company, the city’s tourism promotion agency. “Many cities in the U.S. are courting this market, and we want to make sure we are remaining competitive.”
 “这是吸引更多中国游客来纽约的措施之一，”纽约旅游促进机构NYC & Company的全球交流高级副总裁克里斯托弗·海伍德(Christopher Heywood)说。“美国很多城市都在争夺这个市场，我们要确保纽约的竞争力。”
For New York, that means encouraging travelers to venture beyond the standard-issue tourist sights and seek different experiences in the city’s boroughs outside Manhattan.
对纽约而言，这意味着鼓励游客去尝试典型旅游景点以外的地方，走出曼哈顿，到纽约的其他行政区寻找不同的体验。
“Each neighborhood has its own sound and rhythm,” Mr. Lang says in a promotional video for the city. To accompany the video, Mr. Lang released a list of some of his favorite things in the city. It includes familiar spots — Carnegie Hall, Broadway and, yes, the Empire State Building — but also attractions that might not show up on the typical tour group circuit: Chinese food and the Steinway piano factory in Queens and the Dumbo neighborhood in Brooklyn.
“每个社区都有自己的声音和节奏，”郎朗在纽约的一个旅游宣传片中说。在发布宣传片的同时，郎朗还列出了他最喜欢的一些纽约的地方。其中包括人们熟悉的景点——卡内基音乐厅、百老汇，当然，还有帝国大厦——也包括可能不会出现在通常的旅游团线路上的吸引点：中国美食、皇后区的施坦威钢琴厂，以及布鲁克林的丹波区。
Next to Dumbo, Mr. Lang wrote: “It’s an awesome neighborhood for dating, because there are so many restaurants and coffee shops.”
就丹波区而言，郎朗写道：“这里有非常多的餐馆和咖啡馆，是约会的好地方。”
In highlighting what Mr. Heywood called “off-the-beaten-path” experiences, the city is responding to a shift in Chinese tourism away from whirlwind, multicity group tours toward individual travelers who set their own itineraries.
中国人的旅游方式正在从旋风式的多城市团队游向散客自主游转变，纽约正在响应这种转变，突出海伍德称之为“不走寻常路”体验。
This shift is happening as Chinese tourism in the city has grown. In July, NYC & Company announced a two-year partnership with the Shanghai Municipal Tourism Administration to bolster tourism between the two cities, part of a broader effort that has been labeled the “U.S.-China Tourism Year.”
随着中国前往纽约旅游人数的增长，这一转变正在发生。今年7月，NYC & Company宣布与上海市旅游局达成了一份为期两年的合作协议，以增进这两座城市之间的旅游联系，这是被称为“美国—中国旅游年”的更广泛活动的一部分。
About 850,000 visitors from China went to New York last year, according to NYC & Company. The agency predicts that number will increase to around 920,000 this year and that China will soon overtake Brazil as the second-largest source of foreign visitors to New York, behind Britain.
NYC & Company的资料显示，去年有85万中国人赴纽约旅游。该机构预测，今年这一数字将增至92万左右，而且中国将很快超过巴西，成为纽约外国游客的第二大来源，仅次于排在首位的英国。
While some New Yorkers may say that their city does not lack for tourists, local officials say there is still room for growth.
虽然有些纽约人可能会说，他们的城市不缺少游客，但当地官员表示，增长空间仍然存在。
“We have a robust hotel development pipeline,” Mr. Heywood said. “So we have capacity to fill more of these hotel rooms and we also have a seasonal need to bring more visitors to New York in the first quarter of the year, which happens to coincide with the Chinese New Year holiday.”
“我们有强劲的酒店发展规划，”海伍德说。“因此，我们有能力提高酒店房间的入住率，我们也需要在每年的第一季度吸引更多游客来纽约，这是一个季节性需求，而中国的春节假期正好就在第一季度。”
There is one other activity for which there appears to be insatiable demand and supply: shopping.
还有一项拥有似乎无法满足的供需方的活动：购物。
Mr. Heywood noted the anticipation surrounding Empire Outlets, a mall and entertainment complex scheduled to open on Staten Island next year. The outlets are expected to be a hit among the many foreign tourists who ride the ferries for views of the Statue of Liberty — in particular the Chinese, most of whom list shopping as a top priority while traveling for leisure abroad.
海伍德提到了对帝国廉价经销店(Empire Outlets)的期待，这是一个计划明年在斯塔顿岛开业的购物和娱乐中心。预计该中心会受到很多乘坐渡轮去观看自由女神像的外国游客的欢迎，尤其是中国游客，大部分中国游客都把购物列为国外休闲旅游的首要任务。
“Our job is to expand the horizon of the Chinese traveler to showcase the authentic experiences and the new opportunity,” Mr. Heywood said. “And Staten Island is just as much a part of New York City as Midtown.”
“我们的工作就是要扩大中国游客的视野，将原汁原味的体验和新的机会展现给他们，”海伍德说。“斯塔顿岛也是纽约市的一个重要部分，就像市中心一样。”