ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — Five miles offshore from the Golden Nugget casino, Michael F. Crowley, a marine scientist at Rutgers University, heaves three lifeboat-yellow drones off the back of his research vessel.
新泽西州大西洋城——在距离金砖赌场(Golden Nugget)五英里（约合8公里）的洋面上，罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)的海洋科学家迈克尔·F·克劳利(Michael F. Crowley)奋力将涂成救生艇式黄色的三台无人设备从科研船后部放入水中。
The gliders, as he calls them, are winged and propellerless, like miniature Tomahawk missiles. Two are on loan from the Navy, and one, Rutgers’s own, is pockmarked from a past shark attack. As they slink into the Atlantic to begin a monthlong mission, they join a fleet of 12 others across the Eastern Seaboard, from Nova Scotia to Georgia.
这些被他称为“水下滑翔机”的无人设备带有机翼，没有推进器，看上去像是微缩版的战斧式导弹(Tomahawk)。其中两架是从美国海军借来的，而属于罗格斯大学的那一架之前曾遭鲨鱼攻击，留下了一些凹坑。它们潜入大西洋，开始为期一个月的任务。此外还有12架水下滑翔机，分布在东海岸的加拿大新斯科舍省到美国乔治亚州的海中。
These drones are the centerpiece of “Gliderpalooza,” a collaborative ocean-survey experiment coordinated by 16 American and Canadian government agencies and research teams. By pooling their resources, including satellites, radar stations, research buoys and the gliders, the teams hope to capture the most complete picture yet of the Atlantic’s many mysterious underwater movements — from deepwater currents to migrating fish.
这些水下滑翔机是一个联合海洋调查实验项目的主角。项目名为“滑翔机狂欢”(Gliderpalooza)，由美国和加拿大的16家政府机构和研究团队协同开展。它们把各自的卫星、雷达站、科研浮标和水下滑翔机等资源整合在一起，希望能捕捉到大西洋水下诸多神秘动向的完整画面，包括深海洋流、鱼类洄游等等。
Ocean researchers are also planning to deploy gliders in the Western Pacific to help forecast storms like Typhoon Haiyan. While a typhoon’s path is largely influenced by atmospheric changes, gliders can help predict a storm’s intensity, which is affected by ocean temperatures.
海洋研究人员还计划在西太平洋部署水下滑翔机，以协助预测像台风“海燕”(Typhoon Haiyan)这样的风暴。虽然台风的路径主要受大气变化的影响，但水下滑翔机有助于预测受洋温影响的风暴强度。
“If we can better predict the intensity, we can better predict the human impact,” said Scott M. Glenn, an oceanographer at Rutgers, “and that’s critical, especially in Asia, where so many people die when these typhoons make landfall.”
“如果我们能更好地预测风暴强度，我们就可以更好地预测它对人类的影响，”罗格斯大学的海洋学家斯科特·M·格伦(Scott M. Glenn)说。“这一点极为重要，尤其是在亚洲，台风登陆在当地导致了很多人丧生。”
The mid-Atlantic experiment heralds a new direction in ocean research. Despite a network of ocean-observing satellites and several projects that have seeded the seas with data-logging buoys, the sheer size and complexity of the oceans still mask much of what goes on underwater. At a time when forecasts of storms, currents and the effects of climate change have never been needed more, the researchers hope their flotilla of gliders will provide a new perspective.
这个在中大西洋开展的实验预示着海洋研究的新方向。尽管我们有海洋观测卫星网络，也有几个项目在海里放置了数据记录浮标，但海洋的庞大规模和复杂性仍然令水下发生的事情大多不为人知。现在，人们比以往任何时候都更加需要预测风暴、洋流和气候变化的影响。研究人员希望，水下滑翔机舰队能够提供一个全新的视角。
“We have satellites that give us wonderful maps of the ocean at the surface,” said Dr. Glenn, the leader of the Mid-Atlantic Regional Association for Coastal Ocean Observing Systems, one of the 16 research groups involved in the project. (It goes by the acronym Maracoos.) “But the ocean is 3D, and we want to explore what’s going on beneath the waves.”
“卫星可以给我们提供出色的洋面图像，”中大西洋地区海岸观测系统协会（Mid-Atlantic Regional Association for Coastal Ocean Observing Systems，缩写Maracoos）的负责人格伦博士说。“可是，海洋是三维的，我们希望探索海浪之下发生的事情。”Maracoos是参与该项目的16个研究团体之一。
The battery-powered gliders continually dive in long swooping curves, taking snapshots of the ocean’s temperature, currents and other features at a range of depths. They reach a maximum depth of roughly 650 feet, though they can be configured to go deeper; that is relatively shallow for most of the ocean, but more than deep enough for continental shelves, which are on average 460 feet below sea level and can extend from a few thousand feet to hundreds of miles offshore.
电池驱动的水下滑翔机划出长长的俯冲曲线，不断潜入水中，快速记录一定深度范围内的洋温和洋流等信息。它们能够到达的最大深度约为650英尺（约合200米），不过也可以在调整设置后潜得更深。对绝大部分海域来说，650英尺相对较浅，但对大陆架而言，这个深度已经足够。大陆架在海平面以下的平均深度约为460英尺，延伸距离可以从离岸几千英尺到数百英里以外。
Each glider costs $125,000 to $150,000, depending on instrumentation, a bargain compared with traditional methods. “A research vessel can cost anywhere from $35,000 to almost $100,000 per day,” said Oscar M. Schofield, an ocean scientist at Rutgers who is leading the experiment. “If you were to try to do this same experiment with ships, it would cost on the order of millions to tens of millions of dollars.”
根据不同的配置，每架水下滑翔机的成本从12.5万美元（约合人民币76.1万元）到15万美元不等。与传统方法相比，使用它们非常实惠。“一艘科研船每天的花费在3.5万到10万美元之间，”罗格斯大学的海洋科学家奥斯卡·M·斯科菲尔德(Oscar M. Schofield)说。他是这项实验的负责人。“如果用科研船做同样的实验，费用会达到数百万美元到数千万美元的数量级。”
While each of the 15 gliders has its own mission, the data they collect is being combined at Rutgers to investigate much larger questions. “We know that our ocean has changed quite a bit over the last 20 years,” Dr. Schofield said, “but we have so little data, it’s hard to even start unraveling what the drivers of that change are.”
15架水下滑翔机各自带有独特的任务。罗格斯大学正将它们搜集的数据综合起来，以便研究更重大的问题。“我们知道，在过去的20年里，海洋发生了不少变化，”斯科菲尔德博士说，“但我们的数据太少，要了解这种变化的驱动因素连起步都很困难。”
Perhaps the most pressing question is the shape and movement of the seasonal “cold pool,” a poorly understood body of water that rests at the bottom of the Northeast Continental Shelf.
最为紧迫的问题或许是季节性“冷池”的形状和运动。“冷池”是位于东北大陆架底部的水体，被了解的程度非常有限。
Researchers and fishermen have known for almost a century that while the coastal Atlantic warms in spring and summer, an enormous stretch of water stays abnormally frigid, trapped at the bottom. This cold pool stretches almost the length of the continental shelf, in a shifting band from Cape Cod to Cape Hatteras.
近一个世纪前，研究人员和渔民就已经知道，在春夏两季，虽然大西洋沿岸水域会变暖，但底部仍有一块巨大的水域保持了异常寒冷的温度。这块“冷池”几乎跟大陆架一样宽，在鳕鱼角到哈特勒斯角之间变换形状。
As fall returns and the surface of the Atlantic starts to chill, the cold pool will either slowly homogenize with the cooling surface waters or mix together rapidly as storms move over the ocean. But much is still largely unknown.
随着秋天的到来，大西洋表面的水温开始降低，冷池要么是跟冷却中的海表水慢慢同质化，要么在风暴经过时迅速与之混合在一起。不过，我们仍然知之甚少。
“The cold pool affects lots of migratory fish,” which follow the cooler waters, Dr. Schofield said. “But it’s also important for informing storm forecasting, because the ocean’s temperature is essentially the fuel tank for storms.”
斯科菲尔德博士称，“冷池对很多洄游鱼类都有影响”，因为这类鱼跟着较冷的水迁徙。“对于风暴预报来说，冷池也很重要，因为洋温基本上就是风暴​​的燃料箱。”
Though the gliders swim at a snail’s pace, a little over one mile an hour, their mobility grants the researchers an unprecedented capacity to adapt their experiments, said Joshua T. Kohut, a Rutgers oceanographer with the Maracoos research team.
约书亚·T·科胡特(Joshua T. Kohut)表示，尽管这些水下滑翔机游动的速度跟蜗牛似的，每小时只有1英里出头，但它们的机动性给研究人员提供了一些前所未有的实验调整能力。他也是罗格斯大学的海洋学家，Maracoos研究团队的成员。
“Every two to three hours they come to the surface, which gives us an opportunity to provide new instructions,” he said. “If we see the cold pool has shifted or something has moved, we can respond to that.”
“每隔两到三个小时，它们就回到洋面上，这给我们提供了发出新指令的机会，”他说。“如果我们看到冷池已经变形，或者有东西已经移动了，我们就可以随机应变。”
Many of the research teams are already planning new, collective experiments for their gliders. Of the two glider missions on track for next year, one will study and forecast storms on the East Coast, while another will take Gliderpalooza’s multi-institution approach and apply it on a global scale. “These are an infinite number of ways we can explore the ocean that we couldn’t before,” Dr. Glenn said. “This is opening up whole new horizons.”
很多研究团队已经开始为自己的水下滑翔机制定新的协同实验计划。有两项筹备中的滑翔机任务将在明年开展，其中一个将研究并预测东海岸的风暴，另一个则将采取“滑翔机狂欢”项目的多机构协作方式，在全球范围内开展活动。“这为我们探索海洋带来了无数前所未有的途径，”格伦博士说。“它开辟了全新的视野。”