LANSING, Mich. — The former doctor for the American gymnastics team, Dr. Lawrence G. Nassar, was sentenced to 40 to 175 years in prison on Wednesday for multiple sex crimes, capping an extraordinary seven-day hearing that drew more than 150 young women to publicly confront him and speak of their abuse.
密歇根州兰辛市——周三，前美国体操队队医劳伦斯·G·纳萨尔(Lawrence G. Nassar)因多次性犯罪被判处40至175年有期徒刑，为一场为时七天的惊人听证会画上了句号。在听证会上，有150名多年轻女性与他公开对质，说出她们所遭受的虐待。
Judge Rosemarie Aquilina, who had opened her courtroom to the young women, including several prominent Olympic athletes, bluntly made clear that Dr. Nassar, 54, was likely to die in prison.
此案法官罗斯玛丽·阿奎利纳(Rosemarie Aquilina)欢迎这些年轻女人出庭作证，她们当中包括几位著名奥运选手。她直言不讳地表示，现年54岁的纳萨尔医生很有可能死在狱中。
“I just signed your death warrant,” she said as she imposed the sentence.
“我刚刚签署了你的死刑令，”她在判决时说。
Given an opportunity to address the court before sentencing, Dr. Nassar apologized to the young women and, occasionally turning to them in the courtroom, said: “Your words these past several days have had a significant effect on myself and have shaken me to my core. I will carry your words with me for the rest of my days.” Several women groaned when he faced them and sobbed as he spoke.
纳萨尔在判决前得到机会在法庭上陈词，他向那些年轻女人们道歉，不时转向她们在庭上的席位，说：“你们几天来的话语对我产生了很大的影响，震撼着我的内心深处。我的余生都会记住你们的话。”当他面向她们时，一些女性发出愤恨的叹息，在他说话时轻声啜泣。
Just before sentencing Dr. Nassar, the judge read parts of a letter he submitted to the court last week that contrasted with his stated contrition. In the letter, he complained about his treatment in a separate federal child pornography case and wrote that his accusers in this case were seeking news media attention and money. “Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned,” he wrote in the letter, eliciting audible gasps from the spectators when the judge read the line.
在宣布对纳萨尔的判决之前，法官读了一段他上周提交给法庭的一封信，与他在陈词中的忏悔形成鲜明对比。信中他抱怨自己在另一桩涉及儿童色情的联邦案件中的待遇，并声称此案的原告正在追求媒体关注与金钱。他在信中写道：“地狱不及受拒女人的怒火，”法官读出这句话的时候，明显引得旁听席一阵惊叹。
Judge Aquilina, who had emerged as a fierce advocate for the women, finished reading the excerpts and directed her ire at him.
读完这段摘录后，此前已经表现出对女性的坚定支持的阿奎利纳法官对纳萨尔表示愤慨。
“This letter tells me you have not yet owned what you did,” she said. “You still think somehow you are right, you’re a doctor, that you’re entitled, so you don’t have to listen. That you did ‘treatment.’ I wouldn’t send my dogs to you, sir.”
“这封信告诉我，你还没有承认自己的所做所为，”她说。“你仍然认为自己是对的，你是医生，你有权利，所以你不必去倾听。你做了‘治疗’，先生，我连我的狗都不会送给你医治。”
Dr. Nassar, 54, was accused of molesting girls for years under the guise of giving them examinations or medical treatment. Some were as young as 6. Many of them were Olympic gymnasts. In November, he pleaded guilty to sexually abusing seven girls. He had already been sentenced to 60 years in federal prison for child pornography convictions.
现年54岁的纳萨尔被指控多年来以检查或医疗为借口，对那些女孩实施性骚扰。有些女孩年仅6岁。她们当中许多人是奥林匹克体操运动员。11月，他承认了对七名女孩实施性虐待的罪名。此前，他已因为儿童色情指控被判在联邦监狱服刑60年。
The case and its ramifications are far from over. It has ignited outrage in the sports world and beyond, leading to the resignation this week of the chairman and several board members of the governing body for gymnastics in the United States, U.S.A. Gymnastics. Last week, the organization cut ties with the private training center at a remote Texas ranch where some of the abuse occurred.
此案及其后果远未结束。它在体育界内外引起了极大的愤慨，导致管理美国体操界的机构美国体操协会(U.S.A. Gymnastics)的主席和几位成员于本周辞职。上周，该组织终止了与位于德克萨斯州一处偏远农场的一家私人培训中心的合作关系，其中一些虐待事件就是在那里发生的。
There have also been calls for the resignation of the president of Michigan State University, where Dr. Nassar spent decades on the faculty and treated its athletes and some members of the United States national gymnastics team. Hours after he was sentenced, lawmakers in Michigan’s lower house called on the president, Lou Anna Simon, to resign.
还有人呼吁密歇根州立大学(Michigan State University)校长辞职，纳萨尔曾在该校工作数十年时间，医治该校运动员和美国国家体操队的一些队员。在他被判刑几小时后，密歇根州众议院的议员呼吁该校校长卢·安娜·西蒙(Lou Anna Simon)辞职。
The N.C.A.A. on Tuesday formally opened an investigation into the university’s conduct.
周二，国家大学体育协会(NCAA)正式对密歇根大学的行为进行调查。
The United States Olympic Committee, which some of the young women condemned for not doing enough to protect them when they joined the team and had to continue to see Dr. Nassar, said on Wednesday it was now taking action.
一些年轻女性谴责美国奥林匹克委员会在她们加入奥林匹克体操队时没有采取足够措施保护她们，令她们不得不继续接受纳萨尔的治疗。周三，奥委会表示自己正在采取行动。
Moments after the judge delivered her sentence, the Olympic committee issued a statement calling on the entire U.S.A. Gymnastics board to resign and promising additional steps to investigate Dr. Nassar’s conduct and ensure athletes are not harmed in the future.. The Olympic committee’s chief executive, Scott Blackmun, also apologized for not attending the hearing, after gymnasts pointedly condemned the U.S.O.C. for lack of support.
纳萨尔一案宣判之后，奥委会马上发表了声明，要求美国体操协会理事会全体辞职，并承诺采取进一步措施调查纳萨尔的行为，确保将来运动员不会再受到伤害。由于体操运动员曾经措辞严厉地指责美国奥委会没有给予她们足够支持，奥委会首席执行官斯科特·布莱克门(Scott Blackmun)特意为没有出席听证会而道歉。
A number of civil lawsuits have also been filed.
目前还有一些民事诉讼已经提交。
The sentencing hearing itself, streamed live on the internet, captured national attention for extending several days to allow for victim impact statements from girls and women who said they were molested by Dr. Nassar over the years. Many of the victims had not previously identified themselves. Initial plans to conclude after four days were altered as more women came forward.
这场进行了网络直播的量刑听证持续数日，以便众多声称多年来受到纳萨尔性骚扰的未成年和成年女性发表受害者影响声明，因而引起了全国关注。许多受害者之前没有公开身份。听证会最初计划用时四天，由于有更多女人站出来而进行了延期。
Among those who have accused him are the Olympic gold medalists Aly Raisman, McKayla Maroney, Gabby Douglas, Jordyn Wieber and Simone Biles.
指控他的人当中包括奥运金牌得主艾莉·雷斯曼(Aly Raisman)、麦凯拉·马罗尼(McKayla Maroney)、盖比·道格拉斯(Gabby Douglas)、乔汀·韦伯(Jordyn Wieber)和西蒙·拜尔斯(Simone Biles)。
The final three victims spoke on Wednesday. Rachael Denhollander, who was one of the first women to come forward with public accusations against Dr. Nassar, was the last to speak at his sentencing hearing. “Larry is the most dangerous type of abuser,” she said. “One who is capable of manipulating his victims through coldly calculated grooming methodologies, presenting the most wholesome and caring external persona as a deliberate means to ensure a steady stream of young children to assault.”
最后三名受害者于周三发言。蕾切尔·丹霍兰德(Rachael Denhollander)是第一批公开指控纳萨尔的女性之一，也是在量刑听证会上发言的最后一个人。“拉里是最危险的那种虐待者，”她说。“他能够通过冷酷算计、精心酝酿的方法来操纵受害者，刻意打造最最健康和充满关爱的外部形象，以此为手段，确保有源源不断的幼童供他侵犯。”
Judge Aquilina praised Ms. Denhollander for opening the floodgates. “You are the bravest person I have ever had in my courtroom,” she said.
阿奎利纳法官赞扬丹霍兰德打开了这道闸门。她说：“你是我在法庭上见过的最勇敢的人。”
The sentence carries a minimum 40 years imprisonment, adhering to the terms of the plea agreement, but the judge advised that should Dr. Nassar improbably live longer than any human has, and come up for parole after serving the federal and state sentences, his time in state prison should extend to 175 years.
按照认罪协议的条款，判决中包括40年的刑期；但法官建议，如果纳萨尔出人意料地比任何人都活得都长，并在服完联邦和州的刑期后申请假释，他在州监狱的服刑时间应延长至175年。
Nassar also pleaded guilty in November on three sexual abuse counts in a neighboring county. That sentencing is later this month.
去年11月，纳萨尔在邻县对另外三项性侵犯罪名表示认罪。该案将于本月晚些时候宣判。
The statements by the young women in the past week were forceful and at times anguished.
那些年轻女性过去一周的陈词非常有说服力，有时也非常痛苦。
“Imagine feeling like you have no power and no voice,” Ms. Raisman said in court last Friday. “Well, you know what, Larry? I have both power and voice, and I am only just beginning to use them. All these brave women have power, and we will use our voices to make sure you get what you deserve: a life of suffering spent replaying the words delivered by this powerful army of survivors.”
“想象一下，觉得自己没有力量，也没有发言权，”雷斯曼上周五在法庭上说。“好吧，你知道吗，拉里？我有力量，也有发言权，我只是现在才开始使用它们。所有这些勇敢的女人都有力量，我们将使用我们的发言权来确保你受到应有的惩罚：在余生里，你的脑海中都要一遍遍回放这支强大的幸存者队伍所说的话。”
As part of a lawsuit settlement, Ms. Maroney had signed a nondisclosure agreement with U.S.A. Gymnastics that would have caused her to be fined more than $100,000 for speaking about the abuse. After several celebrities offered to pay the fine for her, the organization said it would not fine her, and she was able to make her statement.
作为诉讼和解的一部分，马罗尼曾与美国体操协会(U.S.A. Gymnastics)签署过一份保密协议。如果谈论被侵犯的经历，她会被罚款逾10万美元。在多位名人提出为她支付罚款后，美国体操协会表示不会对她进行罚款处理，她才得以作证。
“Dr. Nassar was not a doctor,” she said. “He in fact is, was, and forever shall be a child molester, and a monster of a human being.”
“纳萨尔不是医生，”她说。“实际上他现在是，过去是，并且永远是儿童性侵犯者，是披着人皮的恶魔。”
In the end, though, Judge Aquilina had the final words.
但最后，阿奎利纳法官做了最后总结。
“Your decision to assault was precise, calculated, manipulative, devious, despicable,” she told Dr. Nassar in part. “I don’t have to add words because your survivors have said all of that and I don’t want to repeat it. You can’t give them back their innocence, their youth.”
“你做出的侵犯决定周密、有计划、有操纵性、狡猾、卑鄙，”她对纳萨尔说。“我无须多说，因为你的受害者都说过了，我不想再重复。你还不回她们的纯真，她们的青春。”