KARACHI, Pakistan — Fishermen bustled through a ramshackle harbor, a knot of narrow streets and one-room houses on the edge of Karachi, as they prepared to set out to sea for the summer fishing season. But one man was going nowhere. As other fishermen mended their nets in a field, Abdul Shakoor hunched outside his front door, weaving a rug.
巴基斯坦卡拉奇——渔民们忙忙碌碌，在卡拉奇边缘的破败港口、狭窄街道和一些小平房之间穿梭，为夏季渔汛期做出海的准备。但是，有一名男子哪儿都没有去。当其他渔民在一片地里修补渔网时，阿卜杜勒·沙古尔(Abdul Shakoor)却在自家大门外，弓着腰编织地毯。
After 15 years on the boats, Mr. Shakoor said, he was seeking a new profession — a decision his wife, Zahida, heartily endorsed. “He’s getting into a boat again over my dead body,” she said firmly. “I won’t let him go.”
在当了15年渔民后，沙古尔说，他正在从事一个新的行当——这个决定得到了妻子扎希达(Zahida)的由衷赞同。“他别想再回到船上，除非是我死了，”她语气坚定。“我不会让他去的。”
Mr. Shakoor, 34, returned to Karachi recently after a two-year spell in an Indian jail. He is one of several thousand fishermen, both Pakistani and Indian, who have been arrested at sea in recent years by the opposing countries’ navies. The fishermen are accused of crossing a border they cannot see and whose exact location is in dispute.
沙古尔现年34岁，在印度监狱被关押了两年后，最近才回到卡拉奇。近年来，巴基斯坦和印度的海军在海上逮捕对方国家的渔民，人数已达数千名，沙古尔就是其中之一。渔民们被指控越过了国境线，可是这条国境线不仅渔民们无法看到，而且确切位置也存在争议。
The quarrel goes back to the 1960s, when Pakistan and India first disagreed on the status of Sir Creek, a channel of water that separates Sindh Province in Pakistan from the Indian state of Gujarat. Since then, the argument has broadened into a wider dispute over how the land borders should extend into the Arabian Sea.
争端可以追溯到20世纪60年代，当时巴基斯坦和印度首次就爵士湾(Sir Creek)的归属问题产生分歧。这条水道的两岸分别是印度的古吉拉特邦和巴基斯坦的信德省。之后，争端又扩大到了印巴之间的陆地边界，该如何延伸到阿拉伯海上。
Over the years, in a bid to break the impasse, the two governments have commissioned surveys, held talks and proposed compromises. When Gen. Pervez Musharraf ruled Pakistan, he claimed to have come close to a settlement during secretive talks with his Indian counterpart, Manmohan Singh. But General Musharraf was ousted in 2008, and, like so much between India and Pakistan, Sir Creek remains unresolved.
多年以来，两国政府为了打破僵局，委托相应机构开展测绘，并举行了会谈，提出了妥协方案。佩尔韦兹·穆沙拉夫上将(Pervez Musharraf)统治巴基斯坦时，称自己已与印度总理曼莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)举行了秘密会谈，很快就可以解决争端。但穆沙拉夫在2008年被罢黜，爵士湾问题也和印巴之间的其他很多问题一样，至今悬而未决。
Today, the two governments cannot even agree on which map to use when discussing their sea borders, lawyers say. And where diplomats have failed, fishermen are paying the price.
如今，就连在讨论两国海上边界问题时应该使用哪张地图，两国政府都无法达成一致，律师们说。外交官的失败，让渔民们遭了秧。
Every year, dozens of fishing boats from both countries are detained by the Indian or Pakistani governments on charges of trespassing into enemy waters. Flung into jail, the fishermen often languish there for years, only to be released as part of the spasmodic peace process between the two countries. Currently, 249 Indian fishermen are being held in Pakistani jails, while 131 Pakistanis are being held in India, according to the Pakistani foreign ministry. A spokesman for India’s Ministry of External Affairs said that comparable figures were not readily available.
每年都有数十艘印巴渔船，因擅自进入敌方水域而遭到拘捕。被投入监狱后，渔民们常常要在那里忍受数年煎熬，直到两国之间时断时续的和平谈判取得进展，他们才有机会获释。巴基斯坦外交部的资料显示，目前有249名印度渔民关押在巴基斯坦的监狱中，有131名巴基斯坦人关押在印度。印度外交部(Ministry of External Affairs)发言人则表示，他们没有现成的类似数字。
Although treated as criminals, the fishermen are better described as victims of history and geography, unfairly penalized for having to ply their trade on a map without borders, their advocates say.
这些渔民的权益倡导者说，他们虽然被视为罪犯对待，但实际上是历史和地理问题的受害者。由于在谋生的时候使用了一张没有国境线的地图，就受到惩罚，这很不公平。
“The purpose of the arrests is to demonstrate the governments’ authority, and to make a symbolic protest that the other state has allowed its fishermen into their water,” said Ahmer Bilal Soofi, a Pakistani lawyer who has worked on the Sir Creek dispute. “But it is the fishermen who suffer unnecessarily.”
“逮捕这些渔民的目的是展示政府的权威，并且象征性抗议对方国家允许其渔民进入本国水域，”参与爵士湾争端解决的巴基斯坦律师阿赫马尔·比拉勒·苏菲(Ahmer Bilal Soofi)说。“但是，这让渔民受了不必受的罪。”
In the fishing village of Ibrahim Hyderi, boats painted in the floral style of Pakistani trucks crowded the harbor one morning recently, their flags fluttering in the breeze. On the “Mamoon,” a goat sat quietly amid the commotion. Crew members said they would slaughter the animal once they set sail and smear its blood on the bow. “To ward off the evil eye,” explained Shahid, a 16-year-old deckhand.
不久前一天的早晨，在易卜拉欣海德里(Ibrahim Hyderi)渔村，港口挤满了渔船，这些船的桅杆顶端都绘制着巴基斯坦式的花纹图案，旗帜在微风中飘扬。一片嘈杂中，一只山羊静静地坐在“马莫恩号”(Mamoon)上。船员们说，一张起船帆，他们就会宰杀这只山羊，把它的血涂抹在船头。“这是为了抵御邪恶的眼睛，”16岁的水手沙希德(Shahid)解释说。
When it comes to the India border at sea, however, more than luck is required. A half-submerged shipwreck, known locally as “kaajal,” is used by Pakistani fishermen as a marker; a handful of well-off boats use GPS devices. Even so, arrests are frequent.
但是要想避免越过海上边界进入印度，光靠运气是不够的。巴基斯坦渔民把一艘半沉半浮的的破船当作边界标记，这在当地被称为“kaajal”；少数先进一些的船只则使用GPS设备。即便如此，渔民也经常遭到逮捕。
Mr. Shakoor said that his boat was near the shipwreck when it was impounded by the Indian Navy in 2012. Five other boats were captured that day and escorted to a port in Gujarat, which was then led by Narendra Modi, now the country’s prime minister.
沙古尔说，2012年他被印度海军扣押时，他的船就在kaajal附近。当天印度海军还扣押了另外五艘船只，并把他们带到古吉拉特邦的港口。该邦当时的首席部长纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)，如今是印度总理。
The Indian authorities booked the six ship captains, Mr. Shakoor said, and threw their crews in prison. There, they met other Pakistanis, one of whom told Mr. Shakoor that he had been behind bars for 20 years.
沙古尔说，印度当局把六名船长的信息记录下来，然后把船员投入狱中。在那里，他们遇到了其他巴基斯坦人，其中一人告诉沙古尔，自己已经被关押了20年。
Conditions in the prison were miserable, Mr. Shakoor said, and a Pakistani diplomat visited just once during his two-year incarceration. All the time, Mr. Shakoor worried about the plight of his family back in Pakistan. “I would think about the terrible condition they must be in,” he said.
那所监狱的条件很糟糕，沙古尔说。他被关押的两年时间里，只有一名巴基斯坦外交官前来探过一次监。沙古尔一直牵挂着家人在巴基斯坦的艰难生活。“我总会想，他们肯定陷入了糟糕的处境，”他说。
His worries were well-founded: The wives of other men, still in jail, described a life of penury and struggle.
他的担忧不是没有道理。丈夫仍在狱中的女人们，讲述了生活的拮据和艰辛。
“My children are crying for clothes and food,” said Laila, a mother of nine, whose husband has been in an Indian jail for two years and whose children crowded around her as she spoke. “My tears are running this house.”
“孩子们哭着想要衣服穿、要东西吃，”莱拉(Laila)是九个孩子的母亲，她丈夫被关进一座印度监狱已经两年。她说话时，孩子们就挤在她身边。“家里只剩下我的眼泪了。”