STUART SLAVIN, a pediatrician and professor at the St. Louis University School of Medicine, knows something about the impact of stress. After uncovering alarming rates of anxiety and depression among his medical students, Dr. Slavin and his colleagues remade the program: implementing pass/fail grading in introductory classes, instituting a half-day off every other week, and creating small learning groups to strengthen connections among students. Over the course of six years, the students’ rates of depression and anxiety dropped considerably.
圣路易斯大学医学院(St. Louis University School of Medicine)儿科医生和教授斯图尔特·斯莱文(Stuart Slavin)，对压力的影响有所研究。在发现他的医学院学生中，焦虑和抑郁占有惊人比率之后，斯莱文博士和他的同事们重新制定了课程大纲：对入门课程实施及格、不及格的分级，每隔一周放半天假，并建立学习小组以加强学生之间的沟通。在六年的历程中，学生的抑郁和焦虑比率大幅下降。
But even Dr. Slavin seemed unprepared for the results of testing he did in cooperation with Irvington High School in Fremont, Calif., a once-working-class city that is increasingly in Silicon Valley’s orbit. He had anonymously surveyed two-thirds of Irvington’s 2,100 students last spring, using two standard measures, the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory. The results were stunning: 54 percent of students showed moderate to severe symptoms of depression. More alarming, 80 percent suffered moderate to severe symptoms of anxiety.
但即使是斯莱文，似乎也对他与加州费利蒙的欧文顿高中(Irvington High School)合作测试的结果毫无心理准备。费利蒙曾经是一座工薪阶层的城市，现在正日益朝着硅谷的轨道靠拢。去年春天，他匿名对欧文顿高中2100名学生中三分之二的人进行了调查，该项调查使用了两个标准量表——流行病学研究中心抑郁量表(Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale)和状态–特质焦虑量表(State-Trait Anxiety Inventory)。结果令人震惊：54%的学生表现出中度至重度的抑郁症状。更令人担忧的是，80%的学生患有中度至重度焦虑症状。
“This is so far beyond what you would typically see in an adolescent population,” he told the school’s faculty at a meeting just before the fall semester began. “It’s unprecedented.” Worse, those alarming figures were probably an underestimation; some students had missed the survey while taking Advanced Placement exams.
“这已经远远超出了青少年人群中通常见到的程度，”他在秋季学期开始前的一次会议上告诉学校的教师。“这是前所未有的。”更糟的是，这些惊人的数字很可能还被低估了；一些学生因为要参加大学先修课程(Advanced Placement)的考试而错过了调查。
What Dr. Slavin saw at Irvington is a microcosm of a nationwide epidemic of school-related stress. We think of this as a problem only of the urban and suburban elite, but in traveling the country to report on this issue, I have seen that this stress has a powerful effect on children across the socioeconomic spectrum.
斯莱文在欧文顿高中所看到的，是全国各地与学校相关的压力流行病的缩影。我们原以为这只是一个会发生在城市和郊区精英身上的问题，但在周游全国报道这个问题时，我发现这种压力对各个社会经济阶层的孩子，都产生了巨大的影响。
Expectations surrounding education have spun out of control. On top of a seven-hour school day, our kids march through hours of nightly homework, daily sports practices and band rehearsals, and weekend-consuming assignments and tournaments. Each activity is seen as a step on the ladder to a top college, an enviable job and a successful life. Children living in poverty who aspire to college face the same daunting admissions arms race, as well as the burden of competing for scholarships, with less support than their privileged peers. Even those not bound for college are ground down by the constant measurement in schools under pressure to push through mountains of rote, impersonal material as early as preschool.
人们对教育的期望已经失控。除了每天7个小时的上课时间外，我们的孩子还要在晚上做几个小时的家庭作业，每日参加体育锻炼和乐队排练，周末要做功课和参加比赛。每个活动都被视为进入顶级大学、获得令人羡慕的工作和成功人生的阶梯。渴望上大学的贫困家庭的儿童，也面临着同样严峻的升学“军备竞赛”，以及争夺奖学金的重担，而且相比富有的同龄人他们获得的支持更少。即使是那些没有大学升学压力的学生，面对学校持续不断的测验压力，也会感受到沉重的负担——学校也承受着压力，早在学前教育中，就要迫使学生死记硬背堆积如山的枯燥知识。
Yet instead of empowering them to thrive, this drive for success is eroding children’s health and undermining their potential. Modern education is actually making them sick.
这种对于成功的追求非但没有促使孩子们茁壮成长，反而损害了他们的健康，破坏了他们的潜力。现代教育实际上导致他们患病了。
Nearly one in three teenagers told the American Psychological Association that stress drove them to sadness or depression — and their single biggest source of stress was school. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a vast majority of American teenagers get at least two hours less sleep each night than recommended — and research shows the more homework they do, the fewer hours they sleep. At the university level, 94 percent of college counseling directors in a survey from last year said they were seeing rising numbers of students with severe psychological problems.
将近三分之一的青少年告诉美国心理学会(American Psychological Association)，压力使他们感到悲伤或沮丧，第一大压力来源是学校。据美国疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)透露，绝大多数美国青少年每晚的睡眠时间，至少比建议休息时间少两个小时，研究发现，作业越多，睡觉时间越少。去年的一项研究发现，在大学阶段，94%的大学心理辅导主任表示，他们看到有越来越多的学生存在严重的心理问题。
At the other end of the age spectrum, doctors increasingly see children in early elementary school suffering from migraine headaches and ulcers. Many physicians see a clear connection to performance pressure.
在低龄人群中，医生们越来越多地看到上小学的孩子出现偏头痛和溃疡的情况。很多医生认为这与成绩压力有直接联系。
“I’m talking about 5-, 6-, 7-year-olds who are coming in with these conditions. We never used to see that,” says Lawrence Rosen, a New Jersey pediatrician who works with pediatric associations nationally. “I’m hearing this from my colleagues everywhere.”
“我说的是5、6、7岁的孩子出现这些问题，我们过去从未遇到这种情况，”新泽西州的儿科医生劳伦斯·罗森(Lawrence Rosen)说。“我从各个地方的同事那里都听说了类似的事情。”罗森与全国各地的儿科学会都有合作。
What sets Irvington apart in a nation of unhealthy schools is that educators, parents and students there have chosen to start making a change. Teachers are re-examining their homework demands, in some cases reviving the school district’s forgotten homework guideline — no more than 20 minutes per class per night, and none on weekends. In fact, research supports limits on homework. Students have started a task force to promote healthy habits and balanced schedules. And for the past two years, school counselors have met one on one with every student at registration time to guide them toward a manageable course load.
在这个学校环境普遍不健康的国家里，欧文顿显得与众不同是因为那里的教育工作者、父母及学生，选择开始做出改变。老师们重新审视他们的作业要求，有的还重新采用了本学区已被遗忘的一条布置作业的指导方针——每晚每科的作业时间不得超过20分钟，周末不布置作业。实际上，相关研究支持对作业加以限制。学生们建立了一个任务小组，来推广健康习惯和均衡的课程表。在过去两年中，学校辅导员在报名的时候与每名学生进行了一对一的交谈，指导他们承担可控的课程负担。
“We are sitting on a ticking time bomb,” said one Irvington teacher, who has seen the problem worsen over her 16 years on the job.
“我们坐在定时炸弹上，”欧文顿的一名老师说。在担任老师16年来，她看到这个问题在不断恶化。
A growing body of medical evidence suggests that long-term childhood stress is linked not only with a higher risk of adult depression and anxiety, but with poor physical health outcomes, as well. The ACE (Adverse Childhood Experiences) Study, a continuing project of the Centers for Disease Control and Kaiser Permanente, shows that children who experience multiple traumas — including violence, abuse or a parent’s struggle with mental illness — are more likely than others to suffer heart disease, lung disease, cancer and shortened life spans as adults. Those are extreme hardships but a survey of the existing science in the 2013 Annual Review of Public Health suggested that the persistence of less severe stressors could similarly act as a prescription for sickness.
越来越多的医学证据说明，童年时长期承受压力，不仅会加大成年后出现抑郁和焦虑的风险，还会造成较差的健康状况。疾控中心与凯萨医疗机构(Kaiser Permanente)持续开展的项目“儿童时期不良经历研究”(Adverse Childhood Experiences Study)显示，与其他人相比，童年经历多种创伤——包括暴力、虐待、父亲或母亲患有精神疾病——的人，长大后更有可能患上心脏病、肺病和癌症，寿命也会更短。这些都是非常严重的情况，但《2013年公共卫生年度综论》(2013 Annual Review of Public Health)中刊发的有关现有科学研究的综述表明，程度较轻的压力因素，如果长期持续，也会起到诱发疾病的效果。
“Many of the health effects are apparent now, but many more will echo through the lives of our children,” says Richard Scheffler, a health economist at the University of California, Berkeley. “We will all pay the cost of treating them and suffer the loss of their productive contributions.”
“对健康造成的很多影响，现在已经很明显了，但孩子们还将受到更多影响，”加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)健康经济学家理查德·谢夫勒(Richard Scheffler)说。“我们都将为对待他们的方式付出代价。他们的积极贡献会因此受损，我们也要承担相应的后果。”
Paradoxically, the pressure cooker is hurting, not helping, our kids’ prospects for success. Many college students struggle with critical thinking, a fact that hasn’t escaped their professors, only 14 percent of whom believe that their students are prepared for college work, according to a 2015 report. Just 29 percent of employers in the same study reported that graduates were equipped to succeed in today’s workplace. Both of those numbers have plummeted since 2004.
矛盾的是，这种高压会损害孩子们成功的可能性，而不是提高。很多大学生缺乏批判思考能力，教授们注意到了这一事实。2015年的一份报告显示，只有14%的教授认为，他们的学生为大学学业做好了准备。该研究还显示，只有29%的雇主认为，毕业生具备在当今的职场获得成功的能力。2004年以来，这两个数字都大幅降低。
Contrary to a commonly voiced fear that easing pressure will lead to poorer performance, St. Louis medical school students’ scores on the medical boards exams have actually gone up since the stress reduction strategy was put in place.
与人们通常的担忧——减轻压力会让学生成绩变差——相反，自从圣路易斯大学医学院采取减压策略之后，该校学生在医师资格考试中的分数反倒提高了。
At Irvington, it’s too early to gauge the impact of new reforms, but educators see promising signs. Calls to school counselors to help students having emotional episodes in class have dropped from routine to nearly nonexistent. The A.P. class failure rate dropped by half. Irvington students continue to be accepted at respected colleges.
现在对欧文顿开展的新改革的影响进行衡量，还为时过早，但教育工作者看到了一些喜人的迹象。在过去，时常要请学校心理辅导员帮助在课上情绪崩溃的学生，这种情况现在几乎不再有了。大学先修课程挂科率降低了一半。欧文顿不断有学生被受人尊敬的学府录取。
There are lessons to be learned from Irvington’s lead. Working together, parents, educators and students can make small but important changes: instituting everyday homework limits and weekend and holiday homework bans, adding advisory periods for student support and providing students opportunities to show their growth in creative ways beyond conventional tests. Communities across the country — like Gaithersburg, Md., Cadiz, Ky., and New York City — are already taking some of these steps. In place of the race for credentials, local teams are working to cultivate deep learning, integrity, purpose and personal connection. In place of high-stakes childhoods, they are choosing health.
在欧文顿的探索中，有一些经验值得吸取。父母、教育工作者和学生共同努力，可以带来一些并不算大但非常重要的改变：对学生每天的家庭作业量进行限制，周末和假日不布置作业，增加给学生提供支持的咨询时段，给学生提供机会，让他们以传统的考试之外的创新手段，展示自己取得的进步。遍及全国的各个社区——比如马里兰州的盖瑟斯堡、肯塔基州的加的斯和纽约市——已经开始采取一些此类措施。当地的教育团队不再一味追求文凭，他们开始努力培养深入学习的习惯，培养正直、果决的品质，注重人际关系的营造。他们将学生的健康放在了首位，而不是给他们一个可能会产生重重问题的童年。