Asian-Americans are often categorized as a single group, comprising about 5.4 percent of the U.S. population. But despite economic disparities between nationalities, it is the highest paid racial group, and its members are more likely to be seen as advantaged, than disadvantaged.
亚裔美国人经常被划分为一个单一群体，占美国总人口的约5.4%。但是，尽管来自各族群的人彼此之间存在着经济差距，整体来说亚裔却是收入最高的族裔，其族裔身份更有可能被视为优势而非劣势。
But is it fair to stereotype Asian-Americans as a "model minority," free of the burdens of discrimination? Or do they also face obstacles as other nonwhite groups do?
但是把亚裔美国人定性为不受歧视的“模范少数族裔”是否公平？他们是否也面临着其他非白人群体面临的障碍呢？
A Seeming Compliment That Does Great Harm
看似恭维实则是巨大伤害
By Bernadette Lim
贝尔纳黛特·林(Bernadette Lim)
Bernadette Lim, a senior at Harvard University, is the founder and executive director of Women SPEAK and a senior adviser of the Harvard Asian-American Women's Association. She is on Twitter.
贝尔纳黛特·林是哈佛大学毕业班学生，也是Women SPEAK的创始人和总干事，哈佛亚裔女性协会(Harvard Asian-American Women's Association)的高级顾问。她在使用Twitter。
For labels that sound so promising in tone, the “model minority” and “Asian advantage” stereotypes do nothing but render discrimination against Asian-Americans invisible.
“模范少数族裔”和“亚裔优势”的标签，听上去似乎美好，但却只会助长社会对亚裔美国人的隐形歧视。
Arguments of Asian cultural superiority often try to validate the model minority label: The success of Asian-Americans in the United States is “a tribute to hard work, strong families and passion for education.” Positive stereotypes about Asian-Americans are frequently seen as more beneficial than detrimental to the student psyche, in spite of research that these stereotypes harm Asian-American students' mental health and well-being.
亚洲文化优越论常常试图验证“模范少数族裔”这个标签的合理性：亚裔美国人在美国取得成功，是美国亚裔人“工作努力，家庭稳固，重视教育”的结果。尽管研究显示，这些成见有损亚裔美国学生心理健康和幸福，但一些人认为，这种正面的成见对学生的心理健康利大于弊。
The most poignant consequence of the model minority label is its failure to acknowledge socioeconomic and education disparities among the diverse range of communities categorized as Asian-American. Not all ethnic communities under the Asian-American umbrella are advantaged. Southeast Asian-Americans drop out of high school at an alarming rate; nearly 40 percent of Hmong-Americans, 38 percent of Laotian-Americans, and 35 percent of Cambodian-Americans do not finish high school. These Asian-American subgroups, along with Vietnamese-Americans, earn below the national average. Sweeping generalizations of Asian-Americans as the “privileged” and “successful” minority cannot replace unnerving disaggregated data that bring truth to the inequalities that many Asian-Americans face daily.
“模范少数族裔”这个标签最严重的后果，是把多元的亚裔美国人社区归为一类，不承认他们之间在社会经济和教育上的差距。并不是亚裔美国人的所有社区都存在优势。东南亚裔美国人的高中辍学率高得惊人，近40%的苗裔美国人、38%的老挝裔美国人，以及35%的柬埔寨裔美国人没有完成高中学业。这些亚裔美国人亚群以及越南裔美国人的收入低于全美平均水平。把亚裔美国人一概而论，说他们是“得天独厚”和“成功”少数族裔，并不能取代令人不安的事实，正如一些分类数据显示的，很多亚裔美国人每天都在面对不平等现象。
Often in history, Asian-Americans cultural values have been lauded as a way to enable interracial tension. The term “model minority” seems to have been first coined during the Civil Rights Movement in a 1966 New York Times article entitled “Success Story, Japanese American Style”. The positive stereotype caught on, influencing articles such as U.S. News and World Report’s “Success Story of One Minority Group in U.S.” in 1968, Newsweek’s “Success Story: Outwhiting the Whites” in 1971, and the Time magazine’s 1987 cover headlining “Those Asian-American Whiz Kids”. These sensationalized articles similarly argue: if Asian-Americans can “work hard” and “never complain”, why aren’t other racial groups following suit? Cultural normalization and perpetuation of the model minority label operates as a racial wedge that divides Asian-Americans from communities of color while maintaining white dominance in leadership (i.e. the “bamboo ceiling”) and politics.
在历史上，亚裔美国人的文化价值观常常被用来制造族裔之间的紧张关系。“模范少数族裔”这个说法，似乎是在民权运动时期，由《纽约时报》1966年的一篇题为《成功故事，日裔美国风格》（PDF版）的文章首次提出的。这种深入民心的正面成见影响了后来的一批文章，比如1968年《美国新闻与世界报道》(U.S. News and World Report)的《一个少数群体在美国的成功故事》，1971年《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)的《成功故事：比白人更白》，1987《时代》(Time)杂志年封面头条股市《亚裔美国神童》。这些耸人听闻的文章一致认为：如果亚裔美国人“努力工作”，“从不抱怨”，为什么其他种族群体不效仿他们呢？“模范少数族裔”标签的文化常态化和永固化起到了一种种族屏障的作用，把亚裔美国人和有色人种社区分开，同时又维护了白人在领导层和政治上的支配地位（前者即“竹天花板”）。
Recent affirmative action lawsuits by initiatives such as Project on Fair Representation continue to employ Asian-Americans as racial mascots for the anti-affirmative action debate. These lawsuits outline unfairness in the college admissions process for Asian-American students often in comparison to the academic and extracurricular profiles of their black and Latino counterparts. College admissions should not be framed as a zero-sum game among racial minorities if policies such as legacy preferences that overwhelmingly benefit white students remain unchallenged.
最近的平权行动诉讼，比如“公平代表计划”(Project on Fair Representation)等，也继续把亚裔美国人作为反平权行动辩论中的族裔吉祥物。这些诉讼指出，大学录取过程很不公平，在衡量学习和课外活动表现时，经常把亚裔学生和黑人、拉丁裔学生进行不公平地比较。校友子女优先等一些政策向着白人学生有利的方向大幅倾斜，如果这些政策仍然未遭质疑，那么高校招生不应该成为少数族裔之间的一场零和博弈。
The model minority is yet another myth of meritocracy that reinforces racial hierarchy and shrouds discrimination. It’s time to acknowledge the truth: the model minority does not exist.
“模范少数族裔”只是又一个强化种族等级、保护歧视行为的谬论。现在是时候承认真相了：“模范少数族裔”并不存在。
Reason for Pride After Overcoming Racism
克服种族主义值得骄傲
By Min Zhou
周敏
Min Zhou, professor of sociology and Asian-American studies at the University of California, Los Angeles, is now serving as the head of the sociology division of Nanyang Technological University in Singapore and director of its Chinese Heritage Center. She is the co-author of "The Asian-American Achievement Paradox."
周敏，加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)社会学、亚美研究教授，目前担任新加坡南洋理工大学(Nanyang Technological University )社会学系主任、华裔馆(Chinese Heritage Center)馆长。她是《亚裔美国人成就悖论》(The Asian-American Achievement Paradox)一书的合著者。
The extraordinary success of Asian-Americans, despite the difficulties some nationalities in that group face, serves as testimony that the American Dream is attainable for everyone. Remember, less than a century ago, Asian-Americans were perceived as backward, undesirable and unassimilable aliens, full of filth and vice. They faced blunt racism and endured harsh legal exclusion.
尽管一些亚裔面临困难，但这一族裔取得的非凡成功证明，每个人都可以实现美国梦。别忘了，在不到一个世纪之前，亚裔被视作落后的、不受欢迎且不可同化的外来群体，充斥着污秽与陋习。他们面临着毫不掩饰的种族主义，经历了严酷的法律排斥。
Now they are celebrated for not just a strong work ethic, a respect for elders and a reverence for family, but also for educational, occupational and income attainment.
如今，他们不仅因强烈的职业道德、尊敬长者和家庭而受赞誉，还以教育、职业及收入水平高著称。
After sifting through life stories of adult children of Chinese immigrants and Vietnamese refugees for our book, the sociologist Jennifer Lee and I concluded that culture indeed matters but not in a mythical, intrinsically Asian, way. In fact, there isn’t such a thing as “Asian culture,” but, rather, a culture of achievement that has been enabled by changes in America’s economy and society, and buoyed by networks of ethnic support.
为了我们合写的这本书，我和社会学家珍妮弗·李(Jennifer Lee)对中国移民及越南难民的成年子女的人生故事进行了研究，我们的结论是，文化确实发挥重要作用，但不是以一种想象中的、亚洲人所固有的方式。事实上，没有“亚洲文化”这回事，这是一种追求成就的文化，美国经济及社会的改变促进了这种文化，同时它也得到了族裔支持的鼓舞。
Massive Asian immigration occurred as America was opening up more opportunities for all Americans, and when the American economy demanded more highly skilled workers.
当美国向所有美国人提供更多机会，而美国经济又需要更多高技术工人时，大批亚洲移民来到美国。
Asian immigrants, as a group, are more highly educated not only than their compatriots in their home countries but also than average Americans.
亚洲移民作为一个群体，受教育程度不仅高于其本国同胞，也高于普通美国人。
While every group may feel the same drive for achievement, the disproportionate number of highly skilled immigrants in the Asian group allows its members to focus narrowly on a few professions predictably attainable via education, such as science, engineering, medicine, and law.
每个群体都有可能感受到这种追求成就的驱使，但亚裔群体中高技术移民占据格外高的比例，使得其成员侧重于几个通过教育能够获取成功的专业，比如科学、工程、医学及法律。
With so many educated, skilled and ambitious members, the group provides role models and creates ethnic capital, such as after-school tutoring and academic enrichment centers in their community, and resources and connections in the larger society . With all this commitment behind them, the children of Asian immigrants are expected to perform exceptionally and to work twice as hard as other Americans. Many have succeeded in doing so.
由于拥有众多受过良好教育、有技能、有抱负的成员，亚裔成为一种榜样，并在亚裔社区创建了课后辅导及学术活动中心等族裔资本，在更大的社会中创建了资源和关系。有了这些有力的支持，亚裔移民的子女将会表现出色，工作会比其他美国人更加努力。很多人成功地做到了。
On the flip side, however, their extraordinary achievements reinforce the model minority stereotype that ends up backfiring, seemingly justifying the idea that race can no longer be a detriment and blaming those who lag behind – or those from less advantaged nationalities -- for their lack of success.
然而，另一方面，他们的卓越成就强化了“模范少数族裔”的刻板印象，产生了事与愿违的效果，让人可以堂而皇之地认为种族身份不再是一种损害，并指责那些落后的人——或不那么有优势的民族群体——缺乏成功。
Their achievements as a group also make it harder for individual Asian-Americans to gain entry to their parents’ dream colleges and professions. And cultural expectations may keep them from pursuing what their hearts really desire, or make them feel like failures even if they have achieved much.
亚裔作为一个群体取得的成就，也使得亚裔个体更难进入其父母梦想的大学和职业。这种文化期待可能阻止他们追求内心真正的渴望，或使他们感到失败，即便他们已经取得很多成就。