As Ziggy Stardust and Queen Elizabeth knew, a bare brow — bleached, stripped or powdered to invisibility — can transform the face and everything it conveys to the world.When the model Kristen McMenamy shaved off her eyebrows for Anna Sui’s fall 1992 collection, the look was shocking and watershed; the ’90s had arrived, weird and grungy. No more big-haired bombshells, no more Christie Brinkley prom-queen smiles. With her jet-black hair and a forehead now made entirely of negative space, McMenamy looked half-alien. Like Ziggy Stardust before her, that was probably the intention.
“齐基星尘”（Ziggy Stardust，大卫·鲍伊早期塑造的一个形象——译注）和伊丽莎白女王一世知道，光秃秃的眉毛——漂白、剃除或者涂上粉让它变得不明显——能够改变面容，以及它传递给世人的一切信息。当模特克里斯汀·麦克梅纳米(Kristen McMenamy)为安娜·苏(Anna Sui)的1992秋装系列剃掉眉毛后，她的造型令人震惊，成为一个转折点；90年代古怪而邋遢的风格出现了。不再是长发浓密的性感尤物，不再有克里斯蒂·布利克林(Christie Brinkley)舞会皇后式的微笑。乌黑的头发，完全变成“ 消极空间”的额头——麦克梅纳米看起来像半个外星人。和她之前的“齐基星尘”一样，他们很可能就是想要这样的效果。
If the eyes are the windows to the soul, then our brows are the custom dressing that frames the view. They wrinkle thoughtfully in conversation, furrow sympathetically in concern, prove to our friends that we’re paying attention, ratchet separately up our faces when we’re feeling skeptical.
如果说眼睛是心灵的窗口，那眉毛就是框着这一窗风景的独特装饰。它们在交谈中沉思地皱起，在关切时同情地皱起，向朋友证明我们的关注。当我们感到怀疑时，会挑起眉毛。
Without them, you’re asking the beholder to participate — to project an emotion where there is none provided. For the recent fashion shows, many designers, including Alexander Wang, Marc Jacobs, Sarah Burton at Alexander McQueen and Riccardo Tisci at Givenchy, sent out models whose brows had been rendered invisible. With void faces, the meaning of the clothes was amplified. Wang’s military vibe and gray palette became all the more aggressive underneath starkly hooded eyes; Burton’s eyelet dirndls and patterned furs were twice as ethereal. Which is not to say the absence of brows didn’t make a statement in itself: It was transformative, and a little bit transgressive.
没有眉毛，你就是在让对方揣测你没有流露出来的情绪。在最近的时装秀上，很多设计师，包括王大仁(Alexander Wang)、马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)、亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)的莎拉·伯顿(Sarah Burton)以及纪梵希(Givenchy)的里卡多·提西(Riccardo Tisci)，派出的都是眉毛被涂得看不见的模特。在空洞脸庞的映衬下，服装的意义被放大。王大仁的军装风格和灰色调在赤裸裸的眼睛下看起来更强悍；伯顿的小金属圈紧身连衣裙和花纹皮草显得更优雅。然而眉毛的缺失本身也是一种宣言：它是变革性的，有点叛逆。
The Bare Brow, Then and Now
无眉妆的过去和现在    
A gallery of the look, from the Mona Lisa to the latest collection from Alexander McQueen. A strong brow has been a part of the stylish face for decades — Audrey Hepburn, Brooke Shields, Cara Delevingne, pick your generational icon. Being willfully without them, like Rooney Mara as the girl with the dragon tattoo, is punk. Andy Warhol began bleaching his platinum white so that his gaze alone would convey ambiguous sexuality. (“I had a lot of dates but I decided to stay home and dye my eyebrows,” he once said.) More recently, the boundary-pushing pop icons Lady Gaga and Miley Cyrus have both dyed their brows blonde. No eyebrows? No interest in being conventionally pretty.
我们来回顾一下无眉妆的历史：从蒙娜丽莎到亚历山大·麦昆的最新系列。几十年来，浓密的眉毛是时髦脸庞的一部分——奥黛丽·赫本(Audrey Hepburn)、布鲁克·希尔兹(Brooke Shields)、卡拉·迪瓦伊(Cara Delevingne)……选一位你那一代的标志性人物吧。故意隐去眉毛，就像鲁妮·玛拉(Rooney Mara)扮演的有龙纹身的女孩一样，是一种朋克风格。安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)把眉毛漂成铂金色是为了让他的凝视本身就能传递暧昧的性欲（“我有很多约会，但是我决定待在家里染眉毛，”他曾经说过）。如今，不断打破界线的流行偶像Lady Gaga和麦莉·塞勒斯(Miley Cyrus)都把眉毛染成了金黄色。不要眉毛是因为对传统审美没兴趣。