GANGNEUNG, South Korea — Just hours after staging a military parade featuring Army tanks and goose-stepping soldiers making their way through its capital, North Korea ended a day of pageantry Thursday on a decidedly softer note, with an evening of sentimental pop music and cultural outreach in South Korea.
韩国江陵——周四，一个由军队坦克和踏着正步的士兵穿过首都平壤的阅兵式刚刚过去几个小时，朝鲜又以一种显然更为柔和的调子，在韩国用充满深情的流行音乐和文化交流之夜结束了一天的庆典。
For many of the South Koreans who attended, it was their first time seeing North Koreans in person. Some older concertgoers wiped tears away.
对许多到场的韩国人来说，这是他们第一次亲眼见到朝鲜人。一些年纪较大的观众感动得留下了眼泪。
“My heart was thumping,” said Lee Kang-joon, 64, a taxi driver from Gangneung who attended the concert with his wife. “Before, based on what I saw on television, I thought North Koreans were like country bumpkins.”
“我的心怦怦直跳，”江陵市64岁的出租车司机李康钟（Lee Kang-joon，音）说道，他与妻子一起参加了音乐会。“之前，根据我在电视上看到的，我以为朝鲜人就和乡巴佬一样。”
“But they were much more sophisticated than I expected,” Mr. Lee said. “It made me more open to the idea of unification.”
“但他们比我想的要在行，”李康钟说。“这让我更能接受统一的想法了。”
On Thursday, the night before the Winter Olympics were set to open in the nearby town of Pyeongchang, more than 800 concertgoers braved frigid temperatures to hear the North Korean Samjiyon Orchestra in Gangneung, one of the Olympic venue cities.
周四，在冬奥会即将于附近的平昌开幕的前一夜，800多名观众冒着严寒前来欣赏朝鲜三池渊乐团(Samjiyon Orchestra)在奥运赛场城市之一——江陵的演出。
Far from the ideological fare that many have come to associate with North Korean musical acts, the concert program was surprisingly light on the nationalistic propaganda. There was no rendition of “He’s Our Comrade Kim Jong-un,” a recent North Korean favorite, nor was there any mention of Mr. Kim, the North’s leader.
本次音乐会的节目不仅远远不同于常与意识形态相伴的朝鲜音乐表演，还出奇地淡化了民族主义的宣传。没有表演朝鲜人民近来喜爱的歌曲《他是我们的金正恩同志》（He’s Our Comrade Kim Jong-un），也没有提及朝鲜领袖金正恩。
Instead, for nearly 90 minutes, the 140-member art troupe performed a highly choreographed medley that ranged from traditional Korean songs like “Arirang” to South Korean pop songs from the ’80s, Mozart’s Symphony No. 40 and even a perennial karaoke favorite, Josh Groban’s “You Raise Me Up.”
相反，在近90分钟的时间里，这支140人的艺术团带来了一场经过精心编排的音乐会，它既有《阿里郎》这样的传统朝鲜歌曲，也有80年代的韩国流行歌曲和莫扎特第40号交响曲，甚至还有乔诗·葛洛班(Josh Groban)那首常年受卡拉OK喜爱的歌曲《You Raise Me Up》（你鼓舞了我）。
Created for the occasion, the group included singers and dancers, as well as a full orchestra, decked out in magenta tuxedos and floor-length pink gowns.
为了这次演出，这个包括歌手、舞蹈演员和一支完整管弦乐队的艺术团穿上了洋红色西服和粉色及地长裙登场。
If there was one message that concertgoers took from the evening, it was the North’s seemingly genuine desire for reunification. The final section of the concert featured several songs on that theme, including “Our Wish Is Unification,” a tune popular in the South.
如果说音乐会的观众这晚能带回一个消息，那就是朝鲜对统一的渴望看起来十分真诚。音乐会的最后环节特别选用了与这一主题有关的几首歌曲，包括在韩国广受欢迎的这首《我们的愿望是统一》(Our Wish Is Unification)。
Even as anti-North activists protested outside, many in the audience sang along as the orchestra performed the nostalgic song under a phalanx of flashing lights.
即使有反朝活动人士在音乐会外抗议，许多观众仍跟着在密集的闪光灯下演奏这首怀旧歌曲的管弦乐队一同合唱。
The performances are part of a series of measures intended to show unity between the two Koreas in a last-minute deal reached in January in which the North agreed to send a large delegation to the Games, including athletes, high-level officials, and performers. As part of the deal, the two Koreas also agreed to march under a single “unified Korea” flag at the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics on Friday and to field a joint team in women’s ice hockey.
在1月最后时刻达成的协议中，朝鲜同意派出一支包括运动员、高级官员和表演者在内的大型奥运代表团，而这些演出便是一系列展示朝韩亲善的一部分。作为协议内容之一，韩朝两国也同意在冬奥会周五的开幕式上用“统一旗”共同进场，并派出一支女子冰球联队。
Since then, South Korean officials and Olympics organizers have been scrambling to coordinate logistics for the North Korean contingent. But it has been touch-and-go into the final moments. For example, the North informed the South only this week of its decision to send the art troupe by ferry rather than by land, as expected.
此后，韩国官员和奥运组织者便一直忙于协调朝鲜代表团的后勤工作。但直到最后一刻都是边走边看。比如，朝鲜直到本周才通知韩国，他们决定艺术团坐船而非像预期的那样走陆地来韩国。
And despite the appearance of unity during these Games, mutual suspicion has been palpable. Upon arrival in South Korea on Tuesday, the art troupe declined an invitation to attend a welcome dinner hosted by government officials, opting instead to stay on the ship, according to South Korea’s Unification Ministry.
尽管在奥运期间有团结的表现，但相互的猜疑已经有所显露。韩国统一部(Unification Ministry)表示，艺术团在周二抵达韩国的时候，就拒绝了政府官员主办的欢迎晚宴邀请，而选择了留在船上。
Experts said the North’s decision to lodge the performers on the ship instead of in a hotel had to do with the North’s desire to limit their exposure to South Korean culture and people. The art troupe is believed to be under close watch by others in the North’s delegation, and their schedule and movements in Gangneung and Seoul are being tightly controlled.
专家表示，朝鲜决定让表演者住在船上，而不是住在酒店里，是因为不想让他们过多地接触韩国文化和人民。据说，这个艺术团受到朝鲜代表团其他成员的密切监视，他们在江陵和首尔的行程和活动也受到了严格控制。
“North Korea often taps into music to heighten and pronounce the socialist ideology,” said Kang Dong-wan, professor of North Korean culture at Dong-A University in Busan. “So to then expose the musicians to outside ideologies would be quite a contradiction.”
“朝鲜经常通过音乐来弘扬和宣传社会主义意识形态，”釜山东亚大学(Dong-A University)的朝鲜文化教授姜东浣（Kang Dong-wan，音）说，“因此，让音乐家们接触其他意识形态会造成很大的矛盾。”
Leading the Samjiyon art troupe was Hyon Song-wol, the lead singer of the all-female Moranbong Band. Last month, Ms. Hyon ignited a frenzy among local media when she visited South Korea to inspect venues for the performances.
三池渊乐团由女子乐团牡丹峰(Moranbong Band)的主唱玄松月(Hyon Song-wol)领衔。上个月，玄松月在前往韩国考察演出场地时引发了当地媒体的狂热报道。
Perhaps because of the buzz surrounding her visit, South Koreans appeared to be more excited about the Samjiyon Orchestra concerts than the actual Olympic events, which so far have had rather lackluster ticket sales. Last week, more than 150,000 people entered a lottery for a chance to win one of more than a thousand free tickets to Samjiyon’s performances in Gangneung and Seoul.
也许是由于她的访问引起的轰动，韩国人对三池渊乐团音乐会的热情似乎比奥运会赛事更大，到目前为止，奥运会赛事的门票销售相当惨淡。上周，逾15万人参加抽奖，希望赢得三池渊乐团在江陵和首尔的免费演出门票，共计1000多张。
It is not the first time the North has engaged in so-called music diplomacy. In 2000, when the two Koreas were moving toward reconciliation, North Korea’s State Symphony Orchestra held a joint concert with the South’s Korean Broadcasting System Philharmonic in Seoul.
这不是朝鲜第一次进行所谓的音乐外交。2000年朝韩走向和解之时，朝鲜国家交响乐团(State Symphony Orchestra)与韩国广播爱乐乐团(Korean Broadcasting System Philharmonic)在首尔举办了联合音乐会。
Then, in 2008, North Korea hosted the New York Philharmonic — a first for an American cultural organization. More recently, in 2012, the North’s Unhasu Orchestra performed alongside the Orchestre Philharmonique de Radio France, in Paris.
之后在2008年，朝鲜邀请纽约爱乐乐团(New York Philharmonic)赴朝演出，这在美国文化机构中尚属首次。近年则有朝鲜的银河沙管弦乐队(Unhasu Orchestra)2012年在巴黎与法国广播爱乐乐团(Orchestre Philharmonique de Radio France)一起演出。
But in recent months, the North has ratcheted up its bellicose rhetoric, effectively undermining much of the good will it has built up through such cultural exchanges. And, despite the temporary détente, the North has shown few signs of slowing down.
但近几个月来，朝鲜不断升级好战言论，极大削弱了它通过这种文化交流建立起来的良好意愿。而且，尽管出现了暂时缓和，朝鲜几乎没有表现出放慢脚步的迹象。
Earlier on Thursday, Mr. Kim presided over the military parade, marking the founding of the Korean People’s Army in 1948.
周四早些时候，金正恩主持了阅兵式，纪念朝鲜人民军(Korean People’s Army)于1948年的成立。
Some experts said the juxtaposition of the parade and the performance served to reinforce the message that the North was both a military force and cultural one to be reckoned with.
一些专家表示，同时进行阅兵和表演，是为了强化这样的信号：要同时考虑朝鲜的军事力量和文化力量。
Some concertgoers, indeed, left the Gangneung Arts Center on Thursday with a feeling of whiplash.
事实上，周四离开江陵艺术中心(Gangneung Arts Center)时，一些观众有种措手不及的感觉。
“Just recently, Kim Jong-un was threatening the world with North Korean weapons, and now he is showing us a concert that had almost no North Korean propaganda,” said Eom Won-seon, 36, a stay-at-home mother from Seoul who came to the concert with her father.
“就在不久前，金正恩还在用朝鲜的武器威胁全世界，而现在，他向我们展示了一场几乎没有任何朝鲜宣传的音乐会，”36岁的首尔家庭主妇严元善（Eom Won-seon，音）说。她和父亲一起来听音乐会。
“But the message was almost too peaceful,” she said. “It confirmed my belief that Kim is an unpredictable person. At any minute, he could turn around and launch a missile and I wouldn’t be surprised.”
“不过，这个信息几乎太过和平了，”她说，“这证实了我的看法：金正恩是一个不可预测的人。他随时可能改变态度，发射导弹，我不会感到惊讶。”