TOKYO — Making his first public statement since admitting last week that a ghostwriter had written his best-known compositions, the man once hailed as Japan’s deaf musical genius said Wednesday that he had also at least partly faked his own hearing loss.
东京——周三，一名曾被誉为日本失聪音乐天才的人士发表公开声明称，他至少在一定程度上制造了失聪假象。此人于上周承认自己的最知名作品都出于代笔之手，这是他自那以后首度发表公开声明。
The man, Mamoru Samuragochi, whom some music critics once likened to a modern-day Beethoven, said in an eight-page handwritten statement released by his lawyers that he had regained some of his hearing three years ago. He apologized for neglecting to inform fans and said he would soon appear in public to express his regret in person.
此人名为佐村河内守(Mamoru Samuragochi)，一些音乐评论家曾将他比作当代的贝多芬(Beethoven)。佐村河内守的律师公布了一份长达八页的亲笔声明，他在声明中表示，他在三年前即已恢复部分听力。他为自己没能告知粉丝这一事实而道歉，并表示他很快就会公开露面，亲身表达歉意。
Mr. Samuragochi, 50, had risen to classical music stardom in Japan by presenting himself as a deaf composer who could feel the music in his heart, even though he could not hear it. That all came crashing down last week, when he confessed that someone else had been secretly writing his pieces for the past 18 years.
50岁的佐村河内守曾将自己呈现为一个没有听力却可以通过内心感知音乐的失聪作曲家，由此成为日本的古典音乐明星。上周，一切假象轰然坍塌，因为他承认，过去18年中，一直有人秘密为他写曲子。
He made the confession the day before a tabloid published an interview with the ghostwriter, Takashi Niigaki, 43, a part-time lecturer at a music college. Mr. Niigaki said that Mr. Samuragochi, who claimed in his autobiography to have mastered Beethoven by age 10, could actually hear all along and comment on his compositions. In his autobiography, Mr. Samuragochi said he had lost all hearing in both ears at age 35 because of a degenerative condition.
在他坦白的前一天，一家小报刊登了对他的代笔新垣隆(Takashi Niigaki)的一篇采访文章。43岁的新垣隆是一所音乐学院的兼职讲师。新垣隆表示，在自传中声称自己10岁时便精通贝多芬曲目的佐村河内守实际上一直能听到声音，还能对他写的曲子发表评论。佐村河内守在自传中称自己患有一种退行性疾病，因此便在35岁时双耳失聪。
In his statement on Wednesday, Mr. Samuragochi said his hearing remained partly impaired.
佐村河内守在周三的声明中称，自己的听力在一定程度上还是不健全的。
“It has recovered to the level where I can sometimes grasp words when someone speaks clearly and slowly close to my ears, though the sounds are still muffled and skewed,” the statement said. He said he still could not hear on days when his physical condition was bad. He said he was willing to be examined by doctors to prove this.
“我的听力已经恢复到了这样一个水平，如果有人凑在我耳边吐字清晰地慢慢说话，我有时能听到部分字句，但我听到的声音依然低沉怪异，”声明说。他表示，身体状况不佳时，他还是听不到 。他称自己愿意接受医生的检查，以便证明这一点。
Mr. Samuragochi is known in Japan for the Symphony No. 1 “Hiroshima,” about the atomic bombing, and Sonatina for Violin, which the Japanese figure skater Daisuke Takahashi plans to use at the Sochi Olympics.
佐村河内守因《小提琴奏鸣曲》(Sonatina for Violin)和以核弹轰炸为主题的《第一交响曲，广岛》(Symphony No. 1 “Hiroshima”)而蜚声日本，日本花样滑冰选手高桥大辅(Daisuke Takahashi)计划在索契冬奥会比赛中采用《小提琴奏鸣曲》。