The 44-unit apartment building with ground-floor storefronts, proposed for Boston’s Allston neighborhood, is a fairly bold and modern design under development by the studio of Sebastian Mariscal, the architect. But the most radical thing about it is what is missing — parking.
这栋带底商、有44个单元的公寓大楼, 是为波士顿的奥尔斯顿小区（Allston neighborhood，得名于美国画家、诗人华盛顿·奥尔斯顿——译注）规划的。其设计颇为大胆、现代，负责开发的是建筑师塞巴斯蒂安·马里斯卡尔(Sebastian Mariscal)的工作室。不过其设计理念中最激进的地方，恰恰在于它缺少普通公寓大楼都具备的东西——停车设施。
The building, which would be completed in late 2014 if the necessary permits were obtained, sits on an 18,000-square-foot lot currently occupied by — as it happens — a parking lot and a used-car dealer. “If we do the building the traditional way, the entire footprint would be devoted to parking,” said Mauricio De la Peña, the managing director of the Sebastian Mariscal Studio and the project manager for the Allston building. “We’re trying to avoid that by creating green space on every level.”
一旦获得了各项审批手续，这栋大楼就将于2014年末竣工。大楼占地18000平方英尺（约合1672.2平方米），目前占据着这块地皮的，恰好就是一座停车场和一家二手车经销店。“要是我们按照传统的方式来建设这栋楼，所有的占地区域都得用作停车场，”毛里齐奥·德拉培尼亚(Mauricio De la Peña)说。他是塞巴斯蒂安·马里斯卡尔工作室的负责人，也是这栋奥尔斯顿楼盘的项目经理。他表示，“为了避免这种情况，我们打算在每一层都建上绿地。”
Plans include a 4,000-square-foot community garden and social area accessible to residents on the roof, and bicycle racks on the lowest level. There will be six spaces for the car-sharing vehicles that are popular in Boston.
施工计划包括4000平方英尺（约合371.6平方米）的小区花园，对居民开放的楼顶社交场地，以及设在最底层的自行车停车架。此外，还有六个停车位供参与“汽车共享计划”（car sharing，一种汽车租赁模式——译注）的租车者泊车。毕竟，在波士顿，租车的人还是很多的。
Who will live in the building? Mr. De la Peña said in an interview that Boston “like New York, has many residents who don’t own a car and rely on public transportation.” The proposed building is close to the Green Line of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority and also to a proposed commuter rail station, he said.
谁会住在这栋大楼里呢？德拉培尼亚在接受采访时称，波士顿“和纽约一样，有很多居民没有汽车。他们的出行依赖公共交通”。他表示，这栋规划中的楼盘毗邻马萨诸塞湾交通局（Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority，缩写MBTA——译注）的轻轨绿线（Green Line，是MBTA运营的一条轻轨线路——译注）和一个规划中的通勤铁路站。
An apartment building without parking is a challenge, because city regulations overseen by the Boston Redevelopment Authority specify the number of parking spaces per dwelling unit. “We’re working with the authorities and the community,” Mr. De la Peña said. “We need to get the concept approved.”
建造不带停车场的公寓大楼无疑是一种挑战，因为由波士顿再开发局(Boston Redevelopment Authority)监管实施的市政法规，明确规定了每一个居住单元的停车位数量。“我们正在跟政府和小区沟通协调，”德拉培尼亚表示，“我们得让这个设计理念得到批准。”
Susan Elsbree, a spokeswoman for the redevelopment authority, said in an interview that zoning at the Allston project location dictates two spaces per unit and that the developers would need to get a variance through the city’s zoning board. Ms. Elsbree described the project as having “a progressive approach to parking,” but she said its positive environmental impact would have to be weighed against possible adverse effects on local residents. “It needs to be the correct balance,” she said.
再开发局的女发言人苏珊·埃尔斯布里(Susan Elsbree)在接受采访时表示，奥尔斯顿楼盘项目所在地的区划局规定，每个居住单元配备两个停车位，开发商得跟市区划局做好协调。埃尔斯布里称，这个项目“关于停车场的设计理念颇具革新意义”。但她指出，在着眼于环保意义的同时，还得考虑这种设计可能给居民带来的负面影响。“必须得在两者之间做好权衡，”她说。
She said residents could actually own cars and park them on neighborhood streets, adding to congestion. According to a report on the Atlantic Cities Web site, data on five census tracts around the proposed building indicated that 45 percent of renter households do not own vehicles, so finding car-free tenants might not be too difficult. But the Sebastian Mariscal Studio might also seek to include no-car provisions in tenants’ leases, Mr. De la Peña said.
她还表示，事实上居民也可能是有车族，他们可能会把车停在小区的街道上，这样一来又会加剧道路拥堵。根据《大西洋城市》(Atlantic Cities)网站发布的一份报告，来自规划楼盘周围五个人口普查区的数据显示，45%的租户没有私家车。所以要找到无车族的房客，或许并不是太难；但是按照德拉培尼亚的观点，塞巴斯蒂安·马里斯卡尔工作室或许还得把无车作为租房条件，写入租约条款中。
The architect’s office prepared a rendering that showed the Allston neighborhood assigned far more space to parking than it did to parks or other green spaces. “This is about making the community more for the people and less for the car,” Mr. De la Peña said.
塞巴斯蒂安·马里斯卡尔工作室准备了一份材料，该材料显示在奥尔斯顿，小区的停车场用地面积远大于花园等绿地的面积。“我们所做的，是要让小区更多地服务于人，更少地服务于车，”德拉培尼亚表示。