When Kyle Schwartz started teaching third grade at Doull Elementary School in Denver, she wanted to get to know her students better. She asked them to finish the sentence “I wish my teacher knew.”
凯尔·施瓦茨(Kyle Schwartz)刚开始在丹佛的多尔小学教三年级时，她想更好地了解自己的学生，于是让他们造完这个句子“我希望老师知道……”
The responses were eye-opening for Ms. Schwartz. Some children were struggling with poverty (“I wish my teacher knew I don’t have pencils at home to do my homework”); an absent parent (“I wish my teacher knew that sometimes my reading log is not signed because my mom isn’t around a lot”); and a parent taken away (“I wish my teacher knew how much I miss my dad because he got deported to Mexico when I was 3 years old and I haven’t seen him in six years”).
答案令施瓦茨大开眼界。有些学生正在贫困中挣扎（“我希望老师知道我家没有写作业用的铅笔”）；有的学生父母不在身边（“我希望老师知道有时候我的阅读日志没有签字是因为我妈妈经常不在”）；有的学生双亲中有人被带走（“我希望老师知道我想念爸爸，我3岁那年他被驱逐出境回到墨西哥，我们已经六年没见面了”）。
The lesson spurred Ms. Schwartz, now entering her fifth teaching year, to really understand what her students were facing outside the classroom to help them succeed at school. When she shared the lesson last year with others, it became a sensation, with the Twitter hashtag “#iwishmyteacherknew” going viral. Other teachers tried the exercise and had similar insights. Many sent her their students’ responses.
如今施瓦茨已经执教五年，这一课激励着她去了解学生们在课堂之外的处境，从而帮助他们在学校里取得好成绩。去年，她把这一课同其他人分享，引发了轰动，Twitter上的标签“我希望老师知道”(#iwishmyteacherknew)迅速传播开来。其他尝试这样去做的老师也获得了类似的认识。很多老师都给施瓦茨发去了自己学生的回复。
In her recently published book, “I Wish My Teacher Knew: How One Question Can Change Everything For Our Kids,” Ms. Schwartz details how essential it is for teachers and families to be partners.
在她新出版的书《我希望老师知道：一个问题如何改变孩子们的一切》(I Wish My Teacher Knew: How One Question Can Change Everything For Our Kids)中，施瓦茨详细描写了老师和家庭密切合作是多么重要。
“I really want families to know how intentional teachers are about creating a sense of community and creating relationships with kids,” Ms. Schwartz said. “Kids don’t learn when they don’t feel safe or valued.”
“我真心希望每个家庭都能知道，教师有多么希望创造一种社区氛围，创造与孩子们之间的亲密关系，”施瓦茨说。“孩子们如果没有安全感，觉得自己不受重视，他们就不会好好学习。”
Melody Molinoff of Washington, D.C., who has two sons, ages 9 and 11, in the public school system, agreed.
华盛顿哥伦比亚特区的梅洛迪·莫里诺夫(Melody Molinoff)有两个儿子，分别是9岁和11岁，都在公立学校上学，她同意施瓦茨的观点。
“Parents see the teacher as their partner in bringing up their child, and that’s a huge responsibility that we are putting on our teachers and our schools,” Ms. Molinoff said. “I always want my sons’ teachers to know what their challenges are, what they like, just more about them.”
“父母们把老师视为养育孩子过程中的合作伙伴，我们把巨大的责任放在了教师和学校身上，”莫里诺夫说。“我一直都希望儿子们的老师能够了解他们面临什么样的挑战，了解他们喜欢什么，就是希望老师能多了解他们一点。”
Mary Clayman, a fourth-grade teacher in the Washington public schools, said she has noticed the same thing from the other side of the desk.
玛丽·克莱曼(Mary Clayman)在华盛顿的公立小学教四年级，她说，作为教师，自己也注意到了同样的事情。
“I’ve taught over 500 kids so far in my career and parents in every grade want to know how their child is doing socially and emotionally, often times more so than whether they can multiply or divide quite yet,” Mrs. Clayman said.
“我迄今教过500多个学生，比起孩子们的乘法除法做得怎么样，各年级学生的父母都更想知道孩子在社交和情感方面的情况，”克莱曼说。
In her book, Ms. Schwartz writes about mistakes that might have been prevented if she had known her students better. She had a student named Chris who was obsessed with science. Ms. Schwartz thought she had done Chris a huge favor by securing a spot for him in a science-focused summer camp. But she was unaware of the family’s financial struggles and it turned out that his parents could not afford to take time off from work to get Chris to camp.
在她的书里，施瓦茨写道，如果自己能够更好地了解学生，便可以避免一些错误。她有个叫克里斯(Chris)的学生，特别喜欢科学。施瓦茨帮他安排了一个科学主题的夏令营，本以为是帮了他大忙。但她当时不知道，克里斯家境困难，他的父母无法请假带他去夏令营。
Ms. Schwartz said classrooms can become a supportive environment for students coping with grief. She suggests that schools have “grief and loss” inventories for students who have gone through a crisis, with input from families so that the child’s future teachers know what that student is dealing with.
施瓦茨说，对于那些有伤心事的学生们来说，教室可以为他们提供一种支持的环境。她建议学校为那些经历危机的学生们建立“悲伤与损失”的档案，有了家庭提供的信息，这些孩子们将来的教师就可以知道他们正在面对什么样的困境。
“As teachers, we know parents are the first and best teachers for their children and we want them to work with us,” she said.
“作为教师，我们知道父母是孩子们最初也是最好的老师，我们希望他们与我们合作，”她说。