TEHRAN, Iran — Iran's release of 10 U.S. Navy sailors on Wednesday, less than 24 hours after they were detained on the Persian Gulf, is being hailed in both countries as a sign that their relations have evolved since the signing of the nuclear accord last summer.
伊朗德黑兰——伊朗周三释放了10名美国海军士兵。他们的获释距离在波斯湾被扣留不到24小时。两国均称这一迹象表明，自去年夏天签署核协议以来，两国关系得到了发展。
Secretary of State John Kerry thanked the Iranians “for their cooperation in swiftly resolving this matter” and suggested in a statement that the quick resolution of the issue was a product of the nearly daily back-and-forth that now takes place between Washington and Tehran, after three decades of hostility and stony silence.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)感谢伊朗“为迅速解决此事而给予的合作”，并在一份声明中表示，此事得以快速解决，是美伊几乎每天都在进行沟通的结果，此前两国经历了30多年的敌视和冰冷的沉默。
In an appearance later Wednesday at the National Defense University in Washington, Mr. Kerry said that his focus on diplomacy with a country “we hadn’t talked to for 35 years” before the nuclear negotiations had paid off.
周三晚些时候现身华盛顿国家国防大学(National Defense University)时，克里表示他重视与伊朗的外交关系，称在核谈判显出成效之前，“我们35年没说过话”。
“These are always situations that as everybody knows, if not properly handled, can get out of control,” Mr. Kerry said. “We can all imagine how a similar situation might have played out three or four years ago.” The crew members of two patrol boats were detained on Tuesday after what Iranian state news media described as “trespassing” in Iranian waters near a major naval base. Similar episodes in the past, like the seizure of British marines in 2007, have developed into prolonged standoffs that further alienated Tehran and the West.
“正如大家知道的那样，这些情况如果处理不当，就可能失控，”克里说。“我们都能想象到，如果三四年前出现类似的情况会怎么样。”两艘巡逻船上的船员是周二被扣留的。伊朗官方新闻媒体称，巡逻船“擅自闯入”了一个重要海军基地附近的伊朗水域。过去发生的类似事件，如2007年英国海军被扣留一事，都发展成了旷日持久的对峙，导致伊朗和西方进一步疏远。
This time was different. The Pentagon and the State Department initially said that one of the boats had experienced mechanical problems en route to Bahrain from Kuwait in a routine mission on Tuesday, and that the Iranians appeared to have accepted the explanation.
这一次却不同。五角大楼和国务院起初表示，在周二从巴林前往科威特执行任务的路上，其中一艘船出现了机械故障，并称伊朗似乎接受了这个解释。
On Wednesday morning, however, after the crew members and boats were returned, defense officials said they no longer believed that mechanical problems were the cause, noting that both boats returned to United States custody under their own power.
然而，周三上午，当人员和船只被交还后，国防部官员称他们不再认为机械故障是事件的原因，称两艘船都是自己回到美国的保护范围内的。
Defense officials said that they were still trying to untangle the chain of events that led to the episode. Of particular note, they said, was the question of how the military lost contact with not one, but two boats. Several officials noted that the crew members were relatively young, junior enlisted sailors. For now, questions about the incident itself seemed secondary to how it was resolved. While the countries still have a long way to go before normalizing relations, analysts say a less charged atmosphere that allowed the speedy resolution is a reflection of changing priorities in Tehran and Washington.
国防部官员称他们仍在尝试理清造成此事的一连串事件。他们表示，特别要注意的问题是，军方是如何与不止一艘而是两艘船失去联系的。几名官员指出，相关船员都是相对较年轻的低级别士兵。目前，相对于如何解决此事，有关事件本身的问题似乎是次要的。尽管两国关系正常化还有很长的一段路要走，但分析人士称，让此事得以迅速解决的这种不那么剑拔弩张的氛围，反映出伊朗和美国的重点正在转变。
“The top leadership of the Islamic Republic of Iran is not looking for any tension with America,” said Nader Karimi Joni, a journalist aligned with Iran’s reformists who once served in the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. Under President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, he added, the “whole system sought tension.”
“伊朗伊斯兰共和国的最高领导人不希望与美国发生任何冲突，”曾在伊斯兰革命卫队(Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps)服役的纳德尔·卡里米·约尼(Nader Karimi Joni)说。现在是一名记者，并支持伊朗改革派的约尼接着表示，马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)总统领导下的“整个体系都在寻找冲突”。
He continued: “Now, things have changed. Both sides, America and Iran, are in direct contact and they seek détente. Currently there is no need for anti-Americanism.”
他接着说：“现在，情况变了。美伊双方直接接触，寻求缓和关系。目前不需要反美情绪。”
The sailors’ release was announced shortly before 10 a.m. on an Iranian state-run news channel, IRINN. “The detained U.S. sailors, after it was realized that their entry into Iran’s territorial waters was unintentional, and after the sailors apologized, were released into international waters in the Persian Gulf,” the channel reported, attributing the statement to the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps.
美国海军获释的消息是快到早上10点时，通过伊朗官方新闻频道IRINN宣布的。“在了解到美国海军进入伊朗水域是无意的，且对方做出道歉后，被扣美国海军被送回了波斯湾的国际水域，”该频道报道说，并称相关声明出自伊斯兰革命卫队。
The United States Naval Forces Central Command in Bahrain confirmed the release, saying in a statement that there were “no indications that the sailors were harmed during their brief detention” and that the Navy would “investigate the circumstances that led to the sailors’ presence in Iran.”
设在巴林的美国海军中央司令部(United States Naval Forces Central Command)证实了人员获释的消息，并在一份声明中称“没有迹象表明船员在短暂被扣期间受到了伤害”，还说海军方面将“对导致船员进入伊朗水域的情况进行调查”。
The sailors were being flown to an American military facility in Qatar, where they were to be debriefed and given medical exams, a senior Defense Department official said.
获释船员已经乘飞机前往美国位于卡塔尔的一处军事设施。国防部的一名高级官员称，在那里，他们将就此事进行汇报并接受体检。