WASHINGTON — When President Trump traveled to Dover Air Force Base in Delaware this week to pay respects to a fallen member of the Navy SEALs, it was his daughter Ivanka — not his wife, Melania — who accompanied him.
华盛顿——特朗普总统本周去特拉华州多佛空军基地，向一名牺牲的海豹突击队队员致以哀悼时，陪伴他身边的是女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)，而不是妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)。
Mrs. Trump’s conspicuous absence at the solemn ceremony only underscored the fact that she vanished from public view days after her husband’s swearing-in two weeks ago. And it raised new questions about what role, if any, she plans to play as first lady.
特朗普夫人在这个庄严仪式上的缺席引人瞩目，突显了自从两周前特朗普宣誓就任，她就从公众视野中消失的事实。人们不免会问，作为第一夫人，她要扮演什么样的角色——如果有的话。
Mrs. Trump broke with decades of tradition when she decided last year that she would not move into the White House when her husband took office, and would remain instead in the family’s Manhattan penthouse so the couple’s 10-year-old son, Barron, could finish the school year. That decision has made for an unusually slow transition into what has traditionally been a hectic, demanding and heavily scrutinized role.
特朗普夫人去年决定在丈夫上任后不会搬到白宫，而是留在曼哈顿家中的顶层公寓，以便他们10岁的儿子巴伦(Barron)可以完成整个学年，这个决定打破了数十年来的传统做法，也使得她过渡到一个传统上相当忙碌、要求很高、受到仔细审视的角色的过程变得异常缓慢。
It was not until Wednesday that she named Lindsay Reynolds, who worked in the White House under President George W. Bush, as her chief of staff, a position that most first ladies fill before Inauguration Day. Mrs. Trump has still not filled other crucial positions, including social secretary and communications director.
直到周三，她才任命了乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)执政期间在白宫工作过的林赛·雷诺兹(Lindsay Reynolds)担任自己的幕僚长。大多数第一夫人在就职日之前就任命了幕僚长。而且特朗普夫人仍然没有任命其他重要职位，包括社交秘书和传讯总监。
Unanswered requests for White House tours, traditionally run by the first lady’s office, have been piling up by the thousands, according to people familiar with the process, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it. It is not clear how much planning has gone into the elaborate White House events that are among the heaviest tasks for first ladies, such as the annual Easter Egg Roll, which draws 35,000 attendees.
据熟悉这一过程的人说，处理参观白宫的申请历来是由第一夫人办公室负责的，现在尚未回复的申请已经堆积了很多，数以千计。这些知情人士没有讨论这个问题的权限，因此不愿具名。目前还不清楚一些精心设计的白宫活动计划得怎么样了，比如一年一度的复活节滚彩蛋比赛，通常会吸引3.5万名参加者，安排这类活动是第一夫人最繁重的任务之一。
“She is far behind the curve compared to where modern first ladies have been by the time their husbands are inaugurated, in a quite unprecedented way,” said Myra Gutin, a professor at Rider University who specializes in first ladies. “We are in uncharted territory here.”
“美国现代历史上的第一夫人在丈夫就任的时候已经完成了很多工作，相比之下，她远远落在了后面，达到了前所未有的程度，”从事第一夫人研究的莱德大学(Rider University)教授迈拉·古丁(Myra Gutin)说道。“以前没有见过这种情形。”
People close to Mrs. Trump say she has every intention of taking on a greater profile, though she is in no rush to establish a public presence. She is working behind the scenes to adjust to the job on her own terms, a task made infinitely more difficult by the implied comparison with Michelle Obama. Despite her own deep ambivalence about the role, Mrs. Obama left it last month with a 68 percent approval rating and perhaps the most vaunted celebrity status ever enjoyed by a first lady.
接近特朗普夫人的人士表示，她非常愿意更加高调一些，虽然她并不急于建立公众存在感。她正在幕后开展工作，根据自己的方式调适这份工作，由于人们会自然而然地把她与米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)进行比较，这个任务也变得难度更大。尽管奥巴马夫人对第一夫人的角色存在深深的矛盾感，但在奥巴马上个月离开白宫时，她的支持率高达68%，可能也是历任第一夫人中最受追捧的。
Mrs. Trump’s approval rating is 37 percent, according to a Gallup poll conducted last month, which found that she was substantially less popular than previous first ladies at the dawn of their husbands’ presidencies. She is also considerably more of an enigma: One in four Americans were unfamiliar with or had no opinion of her. And Mrs. Trump is pushing back more forcefully on the traditional confines of her position than did Mrs. Obama, who after her husband’s election in 2008 had badly wanted to remain in Chicago with her young daughters while they finished their school year. She was instructed by his political aides that the public would never accept such a move.
盖洛普上个月进行的一项民调显示，特朗普夫人的支持率为37%，该调查发现，在丈夫担任总统之初，她的人气比之前的第一夫人低得多。而且她也更像是一个谜：有四分之一的美国人不熟悉她，或是对她没有印象。和奥巴马夫人相比，特朗普夫人对这个位置传统局限的抵制力度更大，前者在2008年丈夫胜选之后，非常希望留在芝加哥陪伴年幼的女儿完成学业。但她的政治助手表示，公众绝不会接受这种做法。
After announcing her chief of staff on Wednesday, Mrs. Trump on Thursday chose an interior designer, Tham Kannalikham, to overhaul the White House private quarters. In the coming days, she plans to announce the hiring of Natalie Jones, a former Obama administration protocol official, as her social secretary, according to people briefed on her plans, and Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, the former director of Fashion Week at Lincoln Center who planned Mr. Trump’s inaugural festivities, as her senior adviser.
继本周三宣布幕僚长后，特朗普夫人周四还指派室内设计师泰姆·卡拉尼克汉姆(Tham Kannalikham)对白宫私人居住区进行整修。知情人士说，在接下来的几天里，她计划宣布聘用前奥巴马政府礼宾官娜塔莉·琼斯(Natalie Jones)为社交秘书，前林肯中心(Lincoln Center)时装周总监斯蒂芬妮·温斯顿·沃尔科夫(Stephanie Winston Wolkoff)为高级顾问。特朗普就职时的庆祝活动就是沃尔科夫安排的。
“I am putting together a professional and highly experienced team, which will take time to do properly,” Mrs. Trump said in a statement on Wednesday. “I am excited to be organizing and bringing together such a dynamic and forward thinking group of individuals who will work together to make our country better for everyone.”
“我正在组建一个专业的、经验丰富的团队，做好这件事需要一点时间。”特朗普夫人本周三在一份声明中说，我很高兴能够组建这样一个充满活力、富有前瞻思维的团队，共同努力，让我们的国家对每个人来说都变得更好。”
But for now, the lack of staff has deprived Mrs. Trump of control over her image, leading to speculation about everything from her state of mind to her moving date.
但就目前来说，缺乏幕僚已经导致特朗普夫人失去了对形象的控制，并引发了从她的心态到入住白宫日期有关的各种猜测。
Her absence from Washington fueled rumors this week that she might never move to the capital. And with none of the customary images of the first lady adjusting to life in the White House, social media has seized instead on a meme based on video of Mrs. Trump frowning during the inauguration, spawning the hashtag #SadMelania.
本周，她在华盛顿的缺席助长了她可能永远不会搬到华盛顿的传闻。由于没有第一夫人适应白宫生活的传统影像，社交媒体上传播的是特朗普夫人在就职典礼期间皱眉视频改编的一个米姆(meme)，以及#SadMelania标签。
Ms. Wolkoff said Mrs. Trump had every intention of moving to the White House and would be splitting her time between Washington and New York until then. “It has only been a short time since the inauguration, and the first lady is going to go about her role in a pragmatic and thoughtful way that is unique and authentic to her,” Ms. Wolkoff said.
沃尔科夫说，特朗普夫人非常愿意搬到白宫，在此之前，她会在华盛顿和纽约之间分配时间。“总统就任还不久，第一夫人将以一种对她来说独特又真实的务实、周全的方式来履行职责。”沃尔科夫说。
The hiring of Ms. Reynolds appeared at least in part designed to answer concerns that have arisen about the unusually long disruption to White House tours. Ms. Reynolds said on Wednesday that she was “working to ensure that the White House Visitors Office is fully staffed and operational and ready to accept tour requests for the public in the coming weeks after a traditional temporary closure during the transition period.”
任命雷诺兹为幕僚长似乎部分上是为了解决白宫参观活动中断时间过长的问题。雷诺兹周三表示，她将“致力于确保白宫参观者办公室(White House Visitors Office)拥有足够的人手和接待能力，根据传统在过渡期间暂停的白宫参观活动将在未来数周内做好接受公众参观申请的准备。”