MONTREAL — AS scandals go, it was a juicy one. Volkswagen, one of the world’s highest grossing automakers, persuaded consumers it had created a new generation of so-called clean diesel cars — until investigators discovered that defeat devices, which activated emissions controls only when the cars were tested, were concealing the fact that its vehicles emitted up to 40 times the permitted levels of pollutants during regular use.
蒙特利尔——丑闻持续发酵，而且是一桩很有料的丑闻。世界上收入最高的汽车制造商之一大众汽车公司(Volkswagen)，让消费者相信它创造了所谓的新一代清洁柴油汽车。后来调查人员发现，大众使用了作弊装置，只在汽车受到检测时才会激活排放控制，从而隐瞒其车辆在正常使用时，污染物排放水平高达许可上限40倍的事实。
Volkswagen has been punished with consumer opprobrium, a costly recall and plummeting sales. Yet the public outrage over the fraud obscures a much larger issue.
大众汽车受到了消费者的谴责，花费高昂代价召回了产品，销售额也直线下降。然而，公众对造假的愤怒掩盖了一个远更重大的问题。
Volkswagen played a leading role in convincing people to accept a technology that in many countries is causing a precipitous decline in air quality for millions of city-dwellers: the diesel engine. Monitoring sites in European cities like London, Stuttgart, Munich, Paris, Milan and Rome have reported high levels of the nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, or soot, that help to create menacing smogs.
在劝说人们接受柴油发动机这个方面，大众汽车起到了主导作用。但这种技术如今导致数百万的城市居民承受了空气质量的急剧恶化。包括伦敦、斯图加特、慕尼黑、巴黎、米兰和罗马在内的欧洲各城市的监测点，都录得了极高的氮氧化物和颗粒物（即灰霾）读数，这些都会造成来势汹汹的雾霾。
Recently, officials in Milan temporarily barred cars from the city; in Rome, too, persistent smog has forced the authorities to limit the use of private vehicles. Back in March, Paris was enveloped in a gray cloud of choking fumes that obscured the Eiffel Tower for hours and briefly earned the French capital the title of the world’s most polluted city, beating out even Beijing. An air quality expert in Britain reported that much of it was “stale diesel” from traffic emissions generated in European cities.
最近，米兰的官员暂时禁止了轿车在城市中行驶。在罗马，持续的雾霾也已迫使当局对私家车的使用采取了限制。3月时，巴黎曾笼罩在灰色的呛人烟云中，数个小时都无法看清埃菲尔铁塔(Eiffel Tower)，甚至还击败了北京，为法国首都赢得了世界上污染最严重的城市这一称号。英国空气质量专家表示，雾霾的很大一部分，来自欧洲城市里汽车尾气排放的“污浊的柴油”。
This diesel pollution is not just unpleasant; it is also dangerous. The nitrogen oxides produced by diesel engines, which are far more popular in Europe than in the United States, are a potent irritant for asthma sufferers. Health officials in Italy also noted increased reports of cardiovascular disease this week.
柴油污染不仅让人心烦意躁，而且也很危险。柴油发动机所产生的氮氧化物，在欧洲比在美国更为常见，它对哮喘患者来说是一种强效刺激物。意大利卫生官员还注意到，上周心血管疾病的报告有所增加。
Diesel exhaust is laden with insidious soot particles, the so-called PM 2.5 (particulate matter smaller than 2.5 microns, or one-thirtieth the width of a human hair), which allow carcinogens to penetrate deep into tissues and organs. In other words, a driver who steps on the accelerator of a diesel car may be filling the lungs of nearby pedestrians, cyclists, infants in strollers and other drivers with potentially deadly particulate matter.
柴油机废气中充满了有害的灰霾颗粒，即所谓的PM2.5（这些颗粒物小于2.5微米，或人类头发宽度的三十分之一），它能让致癌物深入渗透到组织和器官里。换句话说，踩下柴油汽车油门的司机，或许是在向附近的行人、骑自行车的人、推车中的婴儿和其他司机的肺部，注入潜在致命的颗粒物质。
According to one study, 9,416 premature deaths in London in 2010 were attributed to nitrogen dioxide and PM 2.5 particles. Annual deaths linked to air pollution in Britain as a whole now rival the death toll in the early 1950s, when “pea souper” fogs caused by coal fires shrouded the capital for weeks.
根据一项研究，2010年伦敦有9416例过早死亡个案，可以归咎于二氧化氮和PM2.5颗粒。英国每年因空气污染造成的死亡人数，整体上已经与1950年代初期不相上下。当时，燃煤造成的“黄色浓雾”(pea souper)笼罩伦敦长达数周时间。
How did we get here?
我们怎么走到这一步的？
The German engineer Rudolf Diesel must have thought he was on to a good thing when he built his prototype engine in 1893. Unlike gasoline engines, no spark plugs were needed to ignite the fuel-air mix injected into each cylinder: Pressure and high temperatures caused it to combust spontaneously.
德国工程师鲁道夫·狄塞尔(Rudolf Diesel)于1893年制造原型发动机时，一定以为自己做了一件有益的事。不像汽油发动机，它不需要火花塞点燃喷入汽缸中的燃料/空气混合物：压力和高温会让燃料自发燃烧。
Diesel’s engine also ran on a grade of fuel far less flammable than gasoline. More economical than other internal combustion engines, diesels became the workhorses of the 20th century: They powered ships, trains, trucks and tanks; they cut trees, dug ore and drove factories. Generations of children in rural areas got to school thanks to buses running on diesel.
狄塞尔的发动机所使用的燃料等级的易燃性，比汽油要低得多。柴油机比其他内燃机更具经济性，成为了20世纪的重要动力：它们为船舶、火车、卡车和坦克提供动力；它们砍伐树木、挖掘矿石并驱动工厂运转。农村地区的几代儿童，都曾乘坐烧柴油的公交车去上学。
The diesel engine is inherently efficient: Even a heavy sedan can get as much as 50 miles per gallon, while producing fewer carbon dioxide emissions per mile. The relatively light carbon footprint of Diesel’s invention meant that in the late 1990s, policy makers in Europe, eager to meet Kyoto Protocol goals, initiated a “dash for diesel.” Consumers got a push from sharply reduced taxes on diesel fuel.
柴油机本质上是高效的：即使是沉重的轿车，每加仑柴油也可以行驶长达50英里，同时每英里的二氧化碳排放量也更少。由于狄塞尔发明的发动机碳足迹相对较轻，在1990年代后期，渴望实现京都议定书(Kyoto Protocol)目标的欧洲政策制定者发起了“柴油冲刺”。柴油大幅减税，让消费者受到了鼓励。
In Europe, where tens of millions of cars run on diesel, 55 percent of all new vehicle registrations are now for diesel cars. Thanks also to a glut of cheap diesel from Russian refineries, which last year ramped up production to half a million barrels a day, diesel is now a cheap option at many gas stations.
在欧洲，数以千万计的汽车使用柴油，而现在所有新注册的车辆中有55%是柴油车。另外还要感谢来自俄罗斯的炼油厂，它们去年加足马力，每天生产50万桶柴油。于是廉价柴油供不应求，在很多加油站，柴油现在都是一个便宜的选择。
Industry soon took the hint: Diesel could be marketed as green. The Diesel Technology Forum’s website proclaims that “Today’s ultralow sulfur diesel, advanced engines and effective emissions control combine to achieve near zero emissions.”
产业界很快心领神会：柴油可以作为绿色能源，在市场上推销。柴油技术论坛(Diesel Technology Forum)的网站上宣称，“今天含硫量超低的柴油、先进的发动机和有效的排放控制相结合，实现了近零排放。”
In the United States, which has some of the world’s toughest air pollution laws, automakers worked hard to convince consumers that a new generation of “clean diesel” cars were far less polluting. Volkswagen heavily promoted its “TDI” (turbocharged direct injection) technology.
美国有世界上最严厉的一些空气污染法规，汽车制造商努力让消费者相信，新一代的“清洁柴油”汽车污染已大大降低。大众汽车大力推广它的涡轮增压缸内直喷(TDI)技术。
We know better now. As anybody who has seen the black smoke spewing out of the pipes of a big rig as it changes gears can testify, diesel has a fatal flaw. It tends to burn dirty, particularly at low speeds and temperatures. In cities, where so much driving is stop and start, incomplete diesel combustion produces pollution that is devastating for human health.
我们现在更清楚了。任何一个见过大卡车换挡时排气管喷涌而出的黑烟的人都可以作证，柴油有一个致命的缺陷。它往往燃烧不充分，特别是在低速和低温时。在城市里，汽车行驶有非常多的刹车和启动，柴油的不完全燃烧产生的污染，对人类健康而言是极端恶劣的。
Fortunately, Volkswagen sold under half a million of its “clean diesel” cars to the American public before the emissions scandal broke. Today, fewer than 1 percent of the passenger vehicles sold in the United States run on diesel fuel.
幸运的是，在排放丑闻爆发前，大众汽车出售给美国公众的“清洁柴油”汽车还不足五十万辆。目前，在美国出售的客运车辆只有不到1%使用柴油。
So Americans have a head start on Europe, where policy makers are belatedly coming to view diesel as a devil’s bargain. In a bid to make quick gains in the fight to slow global warming, they abetted a dramatic and quickly apparent decline in urban air quality. It turns out opting for diesel may even have failed to limit climate change: Researchers at Stanford found in 2002 that the warming because of soot from diesel emissions may more than offset the cooling because of reduced carbon dioxide emissions over the long term.
所以美国在这方面领先于欧洲，欧洲的政策制定者认识到柴油是魔鬼的交易时，已经太晚了。为了在减缓全球变暖的斗争中尽快见到成果，他们成了帮凶，让城市的空气质量迅速且显著地恶化。事实证明，选择柴油甚至可能没有遏制气候变化：斯坦福大学(Stanford)研究人员在2002年发现，长期来看，柴油排放灰霾导致的变暖效应，可能大大抵消了二氧化碳排放减少造成的降温效果。
Europe is now scrambling to undo the damage. In London, Mayor Boris Johnson last year called for a national program to pay some drivers to scrap their diesel vehicles. In Paris, Mayor Anne Hidalgo has gained broad support for a proposed ban on diesel cars.
欧洲现在正在手忙脚乱地控制已经造成的损害。伦敦市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)去年呼吁制定国家规划，向放弃柴油车的一些司机发放补贴。巴黎市长安妮·伊达尔戈(Anne Hidalgo)禁止柴油汽车的提议，获得了广泛的支持。
City leaders have a ways to go. On half a dozen visits to Europe in the last five years, I’ve marveled at the way traffic-limiting policies, along with better transit and bicycle infrastructure, have made life there more pleasant. While I envy such smart advances in urbanism and transportation, I’ve also noticed a paradoxical decline in air quality.
各城市的领导人还有很长的路要走。我在过去五年里曾去过欧洲六次，惊叹于那里对交通采取的限制政策，以及基础设施对公共交通和自行车的支持，这让人们的生活更为愉快。虽然我很羡慕城市规划和交通运输等领域的明智进步，但我也注意到了空气质量充满矛盾的下降。
Elsewhere around the world, such forward-thinking leaders as Enrique Peñalosa, the recently re-elected mayor of Bogotá, Columbia, are betting on public transit, rather than private cars, to keep their cities moving. Battling its own smog problem, Bogotá now has a pilot project to replace its rapid transit system’s diesel-powered buses with Chinese-made electric vehicles. Officials in Madrid have gone further, with plans to make its city center car-free by 2020.
在世界上的其他地方，哥伦比亚波哥大最近重新当选为市长的恩里克·佩纳洛萨(Enrique Peñalosa)就是一位很有远见的领导人。他将赌注押在公共交通而不是私家车上，以保持城市的交通运行。在对抗自身的雾霾问题时，波哥大现在有一个试点项目，用中国制造的电动车取代其快速公交系统的柴油动力公交车。马德里的官员走得更远，计划到2020年在市中心全面禁止轿车。
Last month, the signatories of the climate deal in Paris agreed that the world has to begin a long-term shift from fossil fuels to more sustainable forms of energy. Recognizing “clean diesel” for the oxymoron it is would be a good place to start.
上个月，巴黎气候协议的签署国一致认为，全世界现在就必须要开始行动，将化石燃料转变为更具可持续性的能源。承认“清洁柴油”这种说法是自相矛盾，就是一个良好的开端。