BEIJING — A few short weeks after its release, a Japanese mobile game featuring a traveling frog has become a hit in China.
北京——发布短短几周后，日本一款以一只旅行的青蛙为主角的手机游戏在中国大火。
Why, exactly, is a bit hard to explain.
究竟是什么原因，有些难以解释。
The game is called Tabi Kaeru, or Travel Frog. It was created by Hit-Point, the Japanese company that released the popular game Neko Atsume, or Kitty Collector, in 2014.
这款游戏叫Tabi Kaeru，即旅行青蛙，由日本公司Hit-Point开发。该公司还在2014年推出了热门游戏Neko Atsume，即猫咪后院。
It is played like this: A frog sits in its stone hut, eating and reading, while you collect clover from the front yard. The clover is used to buy food, which the frog takes on a journey.
旅行青蛙的游戏是这样的：一只青蛙坐在石屋里吃东西、看书，你则负责收集前院里的三叶草。三叶草可用来购买青蛙旅行时需要的食物。
Once the frog leaves on a trip, it’s unclear how long it will be gone. Sometimes it travels for hours or even days. When it returns, it provides snapshots and mementos of its journey.
青蛙去旅行后，它会消失多久不确定。有时它会旅行几个小时，有时甚至几天。回来时，它会展示旅行时拍的照片和纪念品。
If the 1980s arcade game Frogger is frog travel as sheer terror on the open road, Travel Frog is more like waking up at your destination after a restful nap.
如果80年代的游戏机游戏青蛙过河(Frogger)是青蛙的公路历险旅程，旅行青蛙差不多是休息小睡醒来后就抵达了目的地了。
For whatever reason, this seems to be a concept that Chinese mobile gamers have been waiting for. The state-run Xinhua news agency reported on Tuesday that Travel Frog had risen to the top of the free simulation game category in Apple’s App Store in China. It is being widely discussed on social media, where users post photos of their frogs’ adventures.
无论是什么原因，这似乎都是中国手机游戏玩家一直在等待的一个概念。中国官方通讯社新华社周二报道，在苹果在中国的应用商店里，旅行青蛙已经升至免费游戏类的第一名。这款游戏在社交媒体上引起了广泛的讨论，用户纷纷晒照展示自己的青蛙的冒险经历。
The secret of the game’s appeal isn’t readily obvious. But the frog is cute, for one thing. Some players say they enjoy the feeling of traveling vicariously.
这款游戏如此有吸引力的秘诀并非显而易见。但首先，这只青蛙很可爱。一些玩家说他们喜欢间接旅行的感觉。
And it’s also really easy.
同时也非常简单。
“You don’t need to do a lot of things, you don’t even need to think about anything,” said Yu Ting, a 28-year-old accountant in the northeastern city of Tianjin. “It’s not a competitive game, so it’s very relaxing.”
“你不需要做很多事情，甚至不需要考虑任何事情，”中国东北部城市天津28岁的会计余婷（音）说。“不是竞技类游戏，所以很放松。”
The game also has a strong connection to child rearing. Before the frog leaves on a trip, you have to pack its lunch. And in Chinese, the word for “frog,” wa, is a homophone for a word for “baby.”
这款游戏也和抚养孩子联系密切。在青蛙出发去旅行之前，你必须为它打包午餐。并且在中文里，“蛙”和“娃”同音。
“My friends and I all call the frogs our ‘frog sons,’ ” said Gao Lang, 22, a graduate student in Beijing. “After raising this frog, I suddenly understand the feeling of being a parent, at least partly. And I think when I am traveling somewhere far in the future, I will try to send some photos to my parents.”
“我和朋友都把我们养的青蛙叫‘蛙儿子’，”北京22岁的研究生高朗（音）说。“养了青蛙后，我突然明白了为人父母的感觉，至少在一定程度上明白了。而且我想，将来我自己去远方旅行时，我会尽量给父母寄一些照片。”
“Some people compare it with raising a child,” said Zhu Juan, 35, a sales director at a medical instrument company in Beijing. I have a 3-year-old daughter, and I know it’s different.”
“一些人把它比成养孩子，”北京一家医疗器械公司35岁的销售主管朱娟（音）说。“我有一个3岁的女儿，我知道不一样。”