TOKYO — Forty-one years ago, Antonio Inoki, one of Japan’s most popular professional wrestlers, faced off against Muhammad Ali in a bout that critics called a farcical publicity stunt.
东京——41年前，日本最受欢迎的职业摔角手之一安东尼奥·猪木(Antonio Inoki)对阵穆罕默德·阿里(Muhammad Ali)。批评人士把那场比赛称作闹剧似的作秀。
This week, some commentators leveled similar criticism at Mr. Inoki, now a 74-year-old member of Japan’s Parliament, as he returned from North Korea, where he said he had visited a zoo, sipped ginseng wine and discussed nuclear diplomacy with high-ranking officials.
本周，在现已74岁的猪木从朝鲜回国时，一些评论人士对这位日本国会议员发出了类似的批评。猪木自称在朝鲜参观了一个动物园，品尝了高丽参酒，还与高层官员讨论了核外交。
“He told me Pyongyang will continue its nuclear testing and take it to a higher level unless the global community, especially the U.S., stops applying pressure,” Mr. Inoki told reporters at Haneda Airport in Tokyo, referring to Ri Su-yong, a vice chairman of the North’s ruling Workers’ Party of Korea.
“他告诉我，平壤会继续自己的核试验并进入更高的水平，除非国际社会，尤其是美国，停止施压，”猪木在东京羽田机场对记者说。“他”指的是执政党朝鲜劳动党(Workers' Party of Korea)副委员长李洙墉(Ri Su-yong)。
Though Mr. Inoki — a flamboyant ex-athlete with a taste for self-promotion — has been in politics for decades, in some ways he is Japan’s equivalent of Dennis Rodman, the former N.B.A. star who has made numerous visits to North Korea.
尽管喜欢炫耀和宣传自己的猪木已从政数十年，但在某种程度上，他相当于日本的丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)——后者是多次访问朝鲜的前NBA球星。
It is a sign of North Korea’s international isolation — and the limited avenues available to understand it, much less influence it — that Mr. Inoki and Mr. Rodman are among the world’s few links to the leadership of Pyongyang’s opaque, authoritarian state.
猪木和罗德曼属于全世界与这个令人难以理解的威权主义国家的领导层为数不多的联系之一，这表明了朝鲜所遭受的来自国际社会的孤立，以及了解这个国家的途径何其有限——更别说影响它了。
Mr. Inoki’s five-day trip to North Korea last week was his 32nd since 1995, when he participated in a wrestling match in Pyongyang. In an interview this week in his Parliament offices, Mr. Inoki — sitting near a life-size cutout of himself with a raised fist, an image soon to be used in advertising for Toyota — said his ultimate goal was “to establish peace through sports diplomacy.”
猪木上周为期五天的朝鲜之旅，是他自1995年去平壤参加一场摔角比赛以来第32次去朝鲜。本周在自己的国会办公室里接受采访时，猪木说，他的最终目标是“通过体育外交实现和平”。他的座位旁边，是一幅他高举拳头的真人大小的人形立板。这幅图不久将用在丰田(Toyota)广告中。
He said that North Korea’s top officials wanted to engage in dialogue, but believed that in the face of overwhelming American force, their only option was to develop nuclear weapons. (Unlike Mr. Rodman, Mr. Inoki has not met Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader.)
他说，朝鲜的最高官员希望举行对话，但认为面对势不可挡的美军，他们唯一的选择就是发展核武器（不同于罗德曼，猪木还没见过朝鲜领导人金正恩[Kim Jong-un]）。
“The United Nations, Trump and Japan are all saying we need to apply more pressure,” Mr. Inoki said. “But first we need to listen to them and understand what the reasons are behind their activity.”
“联合国、特朗普和日本都在说我们必须施加更多压力，”猪木说。“但首先我们需要听听他们的声音，了解他们那些活动背后的原因。”
Mr. Inoki’s trip came as alarm over North Korea’s nuclear weapons program is at a peak in Japan as well as in the United States. The North fired a missile directly over Japan last month, days before carrying out its most powerful nuclear test yet.
猪木访问朝鲜时，正值日本和美国对朝鲜核武器计划的担忧最盛之际。朝鲜上月发射了一枚径直飞越日本上空的导弹，几天后又进行了迄今为止威力最大的核试验。
The Japanese government has said little about Mr. Inoki’s latest visit to the North. Before the lawmaker left Tokyo last week, Yoshihide Suga, the chief cabinet secretary to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, reiterated that the government discouraged Japanese citizens from traveling to North Korea. In public comments, Mr. Abe has repeatedly suggested that now is not the time for official talks with Pyongyang.
日本政府几乎没有提及猪木最近这次朝鲜之行。在猪木上周离开东京前，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)重申政府不鼓励日本公民前往朝鲜。在公开发言时，安倍晋三多次表示现在不是与平壤进行正式谈判的时候。
Critics of Mr. Inoki in Japan — much like Mr. Rodman’s in the United States — say he allows himself to be used as a North Korean propaganda tool, while soliciting publicity for himself.
日本国内对猪木持批评态度的人士——很像罗德曼在美国的批评者——称，他听任自己沦为朝鲜的宣传工具，同时希望得到媒体对他个人的关注。
“The North Korean side tries to use him for advertising their positions and their wording,” said Toshimitsu Shigemura, a North Korea analyst and professor emeritus at Waseda University in Tokyo.
“朝鲜方面试图利用他来宣传他们的立场和措辞，”朝鲜问题分析人士、东京早稻田大学(Waseda University)荣休教授重村智计(Toshimitsu Shigemura)说。
Born Kanji Inoki — he adopted Antonio as his wrestling name — Mr. Inoki grew up partly in Brazil. His family moved there in 1957, as part of a Japanese initiative encouraging citizens to look for economic opportunity elsewhere.
安东尼奥·猪木原名猪木宽至(Kanji Inoki)，安东尼奥是他的比赛用名，他的部分成长阶段是在巴西度过的。1957年，他随家人搬到了那里——当时，日本鼓励民众去世界其他地方寻找经济机会。
There, he was discovered by Rikidozan, a professional wrestler who was visiting from Japan. It was Mr. Inoki’s first connection to North Korea: Rikidozan had been born Kim Sin-rak in the northern part of Japanese-occupied Korea, before he was recruited into a sumo career in Japan. He eventually switched to professional wrestling.
在巴西，他被从日本去那里访问的职业摔角选手力道山(Rikidozan)发现。那是猪木与朝鲜的第一个联系：力道山出生于日据时期的朝鲜北部，原名金信洛(Kim Sin-rak)，后来他在日本被招募进入相扑事业，并最终走上了职业摔角的道路。
Under Rikidozan’s mentorship, Mr. Inoki became one of Japan’s most popular wrestlers. His fight with Ali in Tokyo in 1976 was heavily promoted, though it proved underwhelming; Mr. Inoki spent 15 rounds circling the heavyweight champion and kicking at his legs, and Ali landed just two punches. (It was declared a draw.)
在力道山的指导下，猪木成为日本最受欢迎的摔角手之一。1976年，他在东京与阿里的比赛得到了大肆宣传，不过那场比赛本身倒是令人失望。在15个回合中，猪木围着这名重量级冠军转圈，踢他的腿，阿里只打中了他两拳（比赛被宣布为平局）。
Mr. Inoki turned to politics in 1989, when he was elected to Parliament’s upper house as an independent candidate, but he continued to wrestle until 1998. He is instantly recognizable in Japan by his jutting chin, red scarf and red necktie.
1989年，猪木投身政界，作为独立候选人进入了日本国会参议院，不过他继续参加摔角比赛，直到1998年。他在日本很容易被认出来，因为他下巴突出，总是戴着红围巾和红领带。
His pursuit of independent diplomacy started early. In 1990, he met with the Cuban leader Fidel Castro in Cuba; photos of the two shaking hands, drinking sake and embracing are dotted around Mr. Inoki’s parliamentary offices.
他很早就开始进行独立外交。1990年，他在古巴与其领导人菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)会晤。在猪木的议会办公室里，四处放着两人握手、喝清酒以及拥抱的照片。
Later that year, he visited Iraq, and is credited with helping negotiate the release of 41 people, including four Japanese citizens, who had been taken hostage by Saddam Hussein’s government in the months before the first Persian Gulf War of 1991.
同年年底，他访问了伊拉克，据称帮助协商释放了41名在1991年第一次海湾战争爆发之前的数月里被萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)政府劫持的人质，其中包括四名日本公民。
In 1994, Mr. Inoki was invited to Pyongyang by Kim Il-sung, the North’s founding leader. Mr. Kim was said to be a fan of professional wrestling. But the trip did not happen: On his way to Pyongyang, Mr. Inoki landed in Beijing for a layover to the news that Mr. Kim had died.
1994年，朝鲜开国领袖金日成(Kim Il-sung)邀请猪木访问平壤。据说，金日成很喜欢观看职业摔角比赛。但他未能成行：他在北京转机去平壤时，得到了金日成去世的消息。
He was invited back the next year to participate in the wrestling match — part of what was called a Sports and Peace Festival — which Mr. Inoki said more than 380,000 spectators came to watch. Since then, he has returned every year for the anniversary of the founding of the country’s government, the occasion of his visit last week, as well as for other trips.
次年，猪木再次获邀参加摔角比赛，那是体育和平节的项目之一，他说有38万名观众前来观看比赛。从那以后，他每年都去参加朝鲜的国庆活动——他上周参加的就是国庆活动——此外，还有其他的一些访问行程。
This time, Mr. Inoki said, he met with three high-ranking officials at a reception, where he drank ginseng wine and ate pine mushrooms that are scarce in Japan but plentiful in North Korea. His escorts took him to the zoo, he said, and to the top of a new, 70-story building that he had seen under construction when he visited last year.
猪木称，这一次，他在招待会上会见了三名高官，喝了高丽参酒，吃了松茸——这些东西在日本比较罕见，但在朝鲜产量很大。他说，还有人陪他参观了动物园以及新落成的70层大楼的最高层——去年他访问时，该大楼正在施工。
Mr. Inoki said that for the first time, officials from the Foreign Ministry had sought his advice after his return from North Korea. Taro Fujii, a spokesman in the ministry’s Northeast Asian Division, said ministry officials did speak with Mr. Inoki but declined to say what they discussed.
猪木称，日本外务省的官员首次在他从朝鲜访问归来后寻求他的建议。外务省东北亚分部的发言人藤井太郎（Taro Fujii，音）表示，外务省的几名官员的确与猪木进行了会谈，但拒绝透露谈话内容。
Mr. Inoki said he had quietly talked with several lawmakers from the governing Liberal Democratic Party about visiting the North. “They have hinted they want to visit North Korea eventually, if given the chance,” he said. Mr. Inoki declined to name the lawmakers.
猪木称，他与执政党自由民主党的几名议员平静地谈论了访问朝鲜的事。“他们表示，如果有机会的话，希望能最终访问朝鲜，”他说。猪木拒绝透露那几名议员的名字。
“I really think that Japan should take a role as mediator between the U.S. and North Korea,” Mr. Inoki said. “As the only country which was bombed during World War II with nuclear weapons, Japan should be advocating that we should avoid nuclear war from happening again.”
“我真的认为日本应该在美国和朝鲜之间担当调解者的角色，”猪木说。“作为二战期间唯一遭受原子弹轰炸的国家，日本应当倡议避免再次爆发核战争。”
But Professor Shigemura, the North Korea expert, said he doubted that Mr. Inoki’s views would carry much weight with Japan’s leaders.
不过朝鲜专家重村教授表示，他认为猪木的观点不会对日本领导人产生很大的影响。
“He’s not such an important person,” Mr. Shigemura said. “He has no influence on Japanese leaders or the prime minister.”
“他不是一个非常重要的人物，”重村说，“他对日本领导人或首相没有影响力。”