“Such a nasty woman.”
“真是个恶毒的女人。”
Nearing the end of a campaign of disparagement, Donald J. Trump coined a classic in the annals of insults against powerful women.
在一场充满贬损的总统竞选活动临近尾声之际，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)来了这么一句，这在针对有权势女性的侮辱史中堪称经典之作。
Mr. Trump’s remark — which he directed at Hillary Clinton during the third presidential debate Wednesday as she talked about a particularly nasty topic, Social Security — had all the makings of a feminist meme. It came across as impulsive and petulant, with sexist undertones, even if it lacked the sophistication of certain predecessors:
特朗普是在周三的第三次总统辩论会上对希拉里说出这句话，当时她正在谈非常棘手的社会保障问题，这足以令它成为一个女权主义网络热词(a feminist meme)。它显得冲动任性，带有性别歧视的意味，不过还是没有历史上的那些侮辱之词来得聪明老练。
She has “the lips of Marilyn Monroe, the eyes of Caligula.” — the former French president François Mitterrand, about Margaret Thatcher
“玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)的嘴唇，卡里古拉（Caligula，古罗马时代的一位暴君——编注）的眼睛。”——前法国总统弗朗索瓦·密特朗(François Mitterrand)评价玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)
Insults are, of course, an inextricable part of politics, and not only directed at women by men. Mr. Trump has weathered his fair share this election (Senator Mark Kirk of Illinois said on Twitter this month: “DJT is a malignant clown.”) Some of the most memorable came from women: Dorothy Parker, upon hearing that Calvin Coolidge had died, reportedly said, “How can they tell?” Barbara Bush, during the 1984 Reagan-Bush campaign against Walter Mondale, described Geraldine Ferraro, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, as an “I can’t say it, but it rhymes with rich.” Mrs. Bush later apologized and claimed the word she was looking for was “witch.”
侮辱当然是政治当中少不了的一部分，不仅仅是男人侮辱女人。在这次选举中，特朗普本人也经受了不少侮辱（伊利诺斯州参议员马克·柯克[Mark Kirk]本月在Twitter上说：“DJT是个恶毒的小丑。”）有些最让人难忘的侮辱之词来自女人：据传，多萝西·帕克(Dorothy Parker)听到卡尔文·柯立芝(Calvin Coolidge)去世后说，“他死没死别人怎么分得清楚？”（卡尔文·柯立芝为人话少——译注）1984年，里根—布什对抗沃尔特·蒙代尔(Walter Mondale)竞选总统期间，芭芭拉·布什(Barbara Bush)评价民主党的副总统提名人杰罗丁·费拉罗(Geraldine Ferraro)，“我说不出口，但那是一个跟rich（富裕）押韵的字。”布什后来为这句话道歉，称自己当时想说的那个词是witch（巫婆）。（芭芭拉·布什的原话更有可能让人联想到bitch，即母狗或坏女人——译注）。
Mr. Trump in particular is an equal opportunity insulter — just look at the things he said about his male opponents during the primaries.
在侮辱人这方面，特朗普格外信奉男女机会均等——看看他在初选期间对男性对手们说过的话吧。
But insults of powerful women by men perform a particular role, researchers say: cutting them down to size, and playing into discomfort with women in power.
但研究人员表示，男人侮辱有权势的女人还有一个特殊作用：打击她们的士气，激发出对女性拥有权力的不安。
Historically, there has been a high penalty for explicitly attacking women, said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, professor of communication and director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania. As a result, rarely are insults of women as overt as “nasty woman” or some other Trump offerings:
传播学教授、宾夕法尼亚大学安纳伯格公共政策中心(Annenberg Public Policy Center)负责人凯瑟琳·霍尔·贾米森(Kathleen Hall Jamieson)说，历史上，对女性进行露骨的攻击都会付出沉重的代价。因此，像“恶毒的女人”和特朗普的其他公开侮辱女性的言论，实属罕见：
“Look at that face! Would anyone vote for that? Can you imagine that, the face of our next president?” — Mr. Trump, about Carly Fiorina
“看看那张脸！谁会投票给她？你们能想象我们的下一任总统长着那样一张脸吗？”——特朗普评价卡莉·菲奥里纳(Carly Fiorina)
Instead, insults have generally been subtler — and perhaps more pernicious, by playing into people’s stereotypes without their knowing it. Calling Mrs. Clinton “angry,” as Mr. Trump did several times Wednesday, or “emotional,” as John McCain once did, evokes negative gender stereotypes of women as hysterical and irrational, Ms. Jamieson said.
其实，侮辱已普遍变得愈来愈隐晦——可能是利用人们连自己都意识不到的刻板印象，因此也就更为恶劣。周三特朗普几次说克林顿“愤怒”，约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)也有一次说克林顿“情绪化”，这都让人联想起针对女性的负面性别刻板印象，觉得女人都是歇斯底里、没有理性的，贾米森说道。
By questioning Mrs. Clinton’s “stamina,” Mr. Trump implies that she is too weak to be commander in chief. Terms of affection do something similar:
特朗普质疑克林顿的“精力”，是在暗示她太软弱，不足以担当最高指挥官。有些亲密的措辞也有类似效果：
“Calm down, dear.” — Prime Minister David Cameron to Angela Eagle, a British politician
“冷静点，亲爱的。”——戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)首相对英国政治人物安吉拉·伊戈尔(Angela Eagle)说道
People tend to be most bothered when men and women don’t fit the stereotypes they expect — men as confident, strong leaders and women as humble, cooperative and supportive, according to research by Laurie A. Rudman, a psychologist at Rutgers.
根据罗格斯大学(Rutgers)心理学教授劳瑞·A·拉德曼(Laurie A. Rudman)的研究，在人们心目中，男人应当是自信、强有力的领袖，女人应当是谦卑、合作，随时提供协助的角色，如果男人和女人的行为不符合这个刻板印象，就会令人感到不安。
Questioning a woman’s niceness — as some people thought Barack Obama did when he told Mrs. Clinton she was “likable enough” in a 2008 debate — serves that purpose, and also makes it hard for a woman to fight back because she will only appear less kind, Ms. Jamieson said.
质疑一个女人是否讨人喜欢就能起到这种作用——有些人觉得贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)在2008年的辩论中说希拉里·克林顿“足够讨人喜欢”(likable enough)也属于这种情况——而且这种话会让女人感到难以反驳，因为如果她反驳了，就显得更不善良了，贾米森说。
While women with children have been belittled as not having enough capacity to lead while mothering, women without children also receive blistering criticism for not living up to society’s expectations of women.
有孩子的女人会被贬低为没有足够能力一边当领导一边当母亲；而没有孩子的女人又会因为没有达到社会对女性的期待而受到激烈批评。
“Anyone who has chosen to remain deliberately barren, they’ve got no idea about what life’s about.” — the Australian senator Bill Heffernan about Julia Gillard, who would go on to become Australia’s prime minister
“故意选择不要孩子的人根本不了解人生的真谛。”——澳大利亚参议员比尔·赫夫曼(Bill Heffernan)评价将连任澳大利亚首相的茱莉亚·吉拉德(Julia Gillard)
Condescension is another common tool for deflating powerful women.
傲慢态度也是用来打击权势女性的常用工具。
“Let me help you with the difference, Mrs. Ferraro, between Iran and the Embassy in Lebanon.” — George H.W. Bush mansplaining to Ms. Ferraro during a vice-presidential debate
“费拉罗女士，让我来帮你弄清楚伊朗和黎巴嫩大使馆之间的区别。”——乔治·H·W·布什(George H.W. Bush)在副总统辩论中对费拉罗做大男子主义的说教
Attacking women’s appearance serves a dual purpose: the attack itself, and the implication that a woman is valuable for her looks more than her brains. The same goes for sexual remarks, which some people heard in Mr. Trump’s use of the word “nasty,” though it’s possible he didn’t mean the word in that way at all.
攻击女人的相貌有两个目的：一是攻击本身，还有一个是在暗示对于女人来说相貌比头脑更有价值。和性有关的评论也是如此，一些人听到特朗普使用“歹毒”这个词的时候，觉得这里也暗含着性意味，尽管他可能不是这个意思（原文nasty也有“污秽、下流”的含义——译注）。
Mr. Trump is an expert at targeting a woman’s looks, but he’s hardly the first to do it.
特朗普是把目标对准女性相貌的专家，但他可不是第一个这样做的人。
“Michelle Obama, her project is obesity. And look at her big butt.” — Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, as reported by a bystander. (Mr. Sensenbrenner later apologized.)
“米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)的项目太臃肿了，瞧她的大屁股。”——有旁人说众议员吉姆·森森布伦纳(Jim Sensenbrenner)说了这样的话（森森布伦纳后来就此道歉）。
“Did you see Nancy Pelosi on the floor? Complete disgust. If you can get through all the surgeries, there’s disgust.” — Senator Lindsey Graham, making a plastic surgery joke
“你见过南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)在议会坐席的样子吗？太恶心了。能做那么多的手术，就是恶心。”——参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lidsey Graham)开了一个关于整容手术的玩笑
“You’re more beautiful than you are intelligent.” — the former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, to Rosy Bindi, an opposition member of Parliament
“你的美貌胜过你的智慧。”——意大利前首相西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)对国会反对派成员罗西·宾迪(Rosy Bindi)说
Attacking women in power goes back centuries:
对有权势的女人进行攻击的历史可以追溯到好几个世纪以前：
“The concubine, the she-devil, the whore.” — Eustace Chapuys, imperial ambassador to England, about Anne Boleyn
“姘头、女魔鬼、娼妓。”法国驻英格兰大使厄斯塔斯·沙皮(Eustace Chapuys)评价安妮·博林(Anne Boleyn)
But the thing about gendered insults is that they can backfire, by rallying at least half the population. When Patty Murray was told by a state representative that she couldn’t make a difference because she was just “a mom in tennis shoes,” she turned around and used it as a campaign slogan that put her in the Senate.
但是性别侮辱也会产生反作用，会让至少一半的人口团结起来。一名州众议员对帕蒂·穆雷(Patty Murray)说，她只不过是个“穿网球鞋的老妈”，根本无法带来什么改变，她转身就把这句话拿去做自己的竞选口号，最后把她送进了参议院。