Have the Walt Disney and Pixar animation studios become Walt Pixar, or maybe Wixar or Dixar? It’s getting hard to tell these once-distinct siblings apart. Disney’s latest animated feature, “Big Hero 6,” is a bright, visually sumptuous 3-D computer-animated feature that gives you a bit of an emotional workout. It doesn’t have some of the familiar Disney markers: There are no eardrum-busting anthems or warbling critters, and it isn’t a fairy tale, exactly, mostly because it’s about a boy. It’s a Disney superhero movie with a story from a Marvel comic book, if one rendered with the wit and texture often associated with Pixar, which I guess makes it a Walt Pixar Marvel.
沃尔特·迪士尼(Walt Disney)是不是和皮克斯动画工作室合并成沃尔特·皮克斯、沃克斯或者迪克斯了？要把这两个一度疏远的兄弟分开来说是越来越难了。迪士尼最新的动画片《超能陆战队》(Big Hero 6)是一部明亮、视觉效果精美的3-D电脑动画片，同时又给你一点情感上的东西。若干迪斯尼常见的元素并没在这里出现——没有震耳欲聋的主题曲，也没有婉转歌唱的动物或人，没有童话，主要是因为这是一个男孩的故事。一部迪士尼的超级英雄电影，由漫威漫画改编，如果再加上皮克斯动画中通常出现的智慧和质感，我觉得就可以称之为一部沃尔特·皮克斯·漫威电影。
That’s certainly a good way to think of Baymax, the big, beautiful, bouncy white robot who toddles, waddles, squeaks and rather more prosaically flies through “Big Hero 6.” As voiced by Scott Adsit (from “30 Rock”), Baymax has a soothing, comforting voice that at first brings to mind the far more creepily insinuating one of HAL 9000, the computer villain from “2001: A Space Odyssey.” But Baymax, much like the movie itself, represents technological optimism at its shiniest and most reassuring. The robot has been created as a “health care companion,” which means that he’s either a furtive endorsement of Obamacare or a criticism of the same, though he’s probably just a futuristic Florence Nightingale that looks like a cuddlier, more streamlined Michelin Man.
这是看待片中的“大白”的一个好方式，他是个巨大、漂亮、快活的白色机器人，在《超能陆战队》里蹒跚、摇摆，发出吱吱的声音，不过飞行方式有点平庸。这个角色由曾出演《我为喜剧狂》(30 Rock)的斯科特·安第斯(Scott Adsit)配音，大白令人舒服和安心的声音听上去和《2001太空漫游》(2001: A Space Odyssey)里的电脑反派哈尔9000那种令人毛骨悚然的感觉截然不同。但是大白和这部电影差不多，代表着技术乐观主义最光明、最可靠的一面。这个机器人是一种“健康治疗伴侣”，这意味着它既是对奥巴马医改鬼鬼祟祟的背书，也是对它的一种批判，尽管大白只是一个看上去让人更想拥抱、线条更流畅的米其林小人，一个未来主义的弗洛伦斯·南丁格尔(Florence Nightingale)而已。
Directed by Don Hall and Chris Williams, “Big Hero 6” opens with a borderline-frenetic action sequence that announces its tone and PG-rated turf with swaggering humor, signaling that this is no once-upon-a time kiddie kingdom. In a dark corner of the whimsically named city of San Fransokyo (it is a small world), a rowdy crowd has gathered for illegal fights in which remote-controlled robot combatants square off. Here, amid cheers, swooping visuals and the score’s pounding beats, the 14-year-old prodigy Hiro Hamada (Ryan Potter) makes like a seasoned hustler with a shark smile and a robot annihilator, a triumph that leads to a getaway, a failed race to the rescue and a stint in jail.
《超能陆战队》由唐·霍尔(Don Hall)和克里斯·威廉姆斯(Chris Williams)导演，开场是一串模糊疯狂的动作场面，宣告它的基调，以及家长指导观看级别的夸张幽默，表明这不是一个古老年代的儿童王国故事。这个城市（一个小世界）有个异想天开的名字——“旧京山”，在旧京山黑暗的角落里，一伙粗野的人正在举办远程控制机器人战士的非法竞赛。在欢呼声、俯拍的视觉效果与拳拳到肉的重击之间，14岁的天才少年小宏（瑞安·波特[Ryan Potter]配音）模仿老手，脸上带着老练的笑容，带来一个机器人歼灭者，他获得大胜，之后又得逃跑，结果没能获救，反而进了监狱。
Once Hiro has been sprung from jail by his Aunt Cass (Maya Rudolph), the story pieces begin sliding into place. Hiro and his older brother, Tadashi (Daniel Henney), live with Cass above her San Fran-cool bakery and cafe. She’s a disappointingly bland maternal creation, by turns screechy and huggy, and Tadashi isn’t much better, even if he’s a hunky brainiac who studies at an institute of higher nerdiness alongside a Scooby Doo-like posse: a slacker, Fred (a funny T. J. Miller); a tough chick, GoGo (Jamie Chung); a priss, Honey Lemon (Genesis Rodriguez); and a dude with dreads, Wasabi (Damon Wayans Jr.). The group is as harmoniously balanced as a university diversity committee, and largely distinguished by safe quirks of personality rather than stereotypes and unfunny accents.
小宏被卡斯阿姨（玛娅·鲁道夫[Maya Rudolph]配音）接出监狱后，故事开始进入正轨。小宏和哥哥泰迪（丹尼尔·亨尼[Daniel Henney]配音）住在卡斯阿姨旧京山咖啡店的楼上。她是个平庸的母亲形象，有点令人失望，声音尖锐，神经兮兮，泰迪的形象也不怎么样，尽管他才智非凡，在一个高级科技怪人的研究所里学习，周围有一群“史酷比”式的伙伴：懒散的弗莱德（T·J·米勒[T. J.Miller]配音，非常风趣）；强悍的姑娘GoGo（杰米·张[Jamie Chung配音]）；有点女孩子气的“蜂蜜柠檬”（詹尼斯·罗德里格斯[Genesis Rodriguez]配音），留脏辫的山葵（小达蒙·韦恩斯[Damon Wayans Jr.]配音），这群人和谐得像个大学里的多样性委员会，每个人的个性是通过安全的怪癖显示出来，而不是通过刻板印象和无趣的口音。
The designs for these characters are gently exaggerated, with innocuous looks to go with their friendly, unthreatening temperaments. They pale next to Baymax, whose pleasing plumpness and symphony of cartoon sounds — when he walks, his legs produce muffled boing-boing noises — make him the embodiment of kawaii and the Japanese culture of cute. Created by Tadashi, the robot is a palpably tactile and charming screen presence who in time becomes Hiro’s supersize Jiminy Cricket, part folk philosopher, part moral compass. What makes Baymax so memorable and emotionally potent is that he’s also something of a Proustian Marshmallow who triggers an irresistible chain of elemental pleasures: He’s a stuffed animal, a warm blanket, a cozy chair, a warm embrace.
这些人物的设计只是微微夸张，外表平淡无奇，有着友好而全无威胁的脾性，和大白相比显得黯然失色。大白有着讨人喜欢的丰满，以及和谐的卡通音效，当他走路时，双腿会发出一种模糊的“啵啵”声——这一切都令他显得非常“卡哇伊”，也就是日本文化里的“可爱”。大白是泰迪设计的，格外可亲，是非常有魅力的银幕形象，后来就成了小宏的吉米尼蟋蟀（来自动画《木偶奇遇记》——译注），半是平民哲学家，半是道德指南针。大白让人难忘，打动人心，最主要的还是因为它有点像普鲁斯特的玛德琳蛋糕，能令人联想起一系列无法抵挡的愉快之物——一个填充动物玩具、一张温暖的毯子、一张舒服的椅子，一个温暖的拥抱。
Both Baymax and the backgrounds, with their amusing excesses and startling photorealistic detail, make the story seem fairly superfluous, at least until you’ve settled in. Like the portmanteau name San Fransokyo, the movie fuses different source materials, drawing on diverse cultural traditions, urban landscapes, architectural visions and futurist ideas.
整个画面极为丰富，有着惊人的、照片般的细节，它们和大白一起为故事营造出极为丰盛的效果，至少当你沉浸其中的时候会有这样的感觉。正如这个城市混搭的名字——旧京山，影片也混合了多种来源的素材，利用了各种文化的传统、城市景观、建筑面貌和对未来的创意。
There are waving good-luck cats, airborne wind turbines that suggest why the air looks so clean and a Golden Gate-like bridge with towers that look like vertically stacked Japanese red gates. Before all the story stuff gets in the way, “Big Hero 6” hums along on the imaginativeness of its visual design and the image of a big squeaky toy navigating city streets with Oliver Hardy roly-polyness and the deadpan of Buster Keaton.
片中有摇手的招财猫、暗示出这座城市何以如此清洁的风能发电机、金门大桥式的桥梁，以及垂直堆叠、带日式红门的塔。故事元素就位之前，《超能陆战队》中充满了视觉设计的想像力与巨大的玩具式城市街道形象，街头可以看到奥利弗·哈迪(Oliver Hardy)的矮胖身材，以及巴斯特·基顿(Buster Keaton)的扑克脸。
Hiro’s journey is rather more pedestrian, resembling that of the classic hero — the writers are Robert L. Baird, Daniel Gerson and Jordan Roberts — retrofitted to the information age with some space-age filler. Hiro is called to adventure only to refuse that call and then, after receiving help from a magical helper, or rather Baymax, crosses the threshold, enters the belly of the beast and so on. More specifically, a tragedy radically upends Hiro’s world, putting the kibosh on his plans to attend the university and plunging him into a very sad place. He emerges almost by accident when he stumbles across a villain, a discovery that sets him and the story down a path that’s so well-trod it feels discouragingly inescapable: that of the genius turned superhero.
编剧是罗伯特·L·贝尔德(Robert L. Baird)、丹尼·戈森(Daniel Gerson)和乔丹·罗伯茨(Jordan Roberts)，在他们笔下，小宏的旅行有点平淡无奇，类似于传统英雄，只是做了信息时代的花样翻新，有了一些太空时代的元素。小宏得到冒险的召唤，但却拒绝这个召唤，后来得到了魔力的帮助，或者说，大白的帮助，这才越过这道门槛，进入野兽的肚子之类的。特别的是，一件悲剧突如其来地颠覆了小宏的世界，中止了他上大学的计划，令他处于悲惨的境地。他遇到一个流氓，几乎是意外才逃脱，一个发现令他和整个故事走上了令人丧气，不可避免的俗套——天才如何成为超级英雄。