WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump challenged Democrats on Tuesday night to join him in overhauling immigration policies and in rebuilding the nation’s infrastructure in a State of the Union address meant to move past the tumult and partisanship of his first year in office.
华盛顿——周二晚上，特朗普发表了旨在结束上任第一年来的混乱与党派偏见的国情咨文演说，他向民主党人发起挑战，邀请他们一道参与全面修订移民政策及重建国家基础建设。
Speaking to a joint session of Congress, Trump hailed what he called the “extraordinary success” of his administration’s first year, and sounded notes of unity and inclusion, steering clear of the nationalist rhetoric, political attacks and confrontational tone that have been his calling cards both as a candidate a commander in chief.
在特朗普对国会参众两院的讲话中，特朗普赞扬了他口中自己执政第一年的“巨大成就”，还表达了对团结和包容的看法，他避开了民族主义论调、政治攻击以及冲突性调子，而这些都是他作为总统候选人与最高统帅时的名片。
“Tonight, I call upon all of us to set aside our differences, to seek out common ground, and to summon the unity we need to deliver for the people,” Trump said to raucous applause from many Republicans, as Democratic leaders who have bitterly criticized his policies and rhetoric sat stone-faced in their seats.
“今晚，我呼吁所有人将分歧抛至一旁，找寻共同点，此外我还呼吁兑现对人民承诺的团结，”对着来自不少共和党人雷鸣般的掌声，特朗普说道。与此同时，曾经狠狠批评过特朗普政策及论调的民主党领袖板着脸坐在自己的座位上。
“This, in fact, is our new American moment,” Trump said. “There has never been a better time to start living the American dream.”
“实际上，这就是我们新的美国时刻，”特朗普说。“开始让美国梦成真，没有比现在更好的时候了。”
The president delivered his address as investigations are intensifying into Russian interference in the 2016 election and whether Trump or his associates helped the effort or obstructed justice. As he took the dais at the Capitol, Trump had the weakest approval rating of any president of the modern era entering his second year in office, with 39 percent of Americans approving of his performance in the job.
特朗普此次发表演说之时，正值针对俄罗斯干预2016大选，以及特朗普及其助手是否对这种努力予以协助或是妨碍了司法公正的调查力度加大。当特朗普走上国会山的演讲台时，他的支持率为即将步入执政第二年的现代总统中的最低水平，有39%的美国人对他任内的表现表示支持。
But he stepped behind the lectern still popular with his most ardent supporters, who see him as an unpredictable and entertaining commander in chief who posts vitriol on Twitter against the advice of the White House staff, the Republican leadership and those closest to him.
但特朗普站在讲台后时，他在那些最为热忱的支持者中仍然受欢迎，这些人将他视为不可预测、具有娱乐性的统帅，总会不顾白宫工作人员、共和党领导人与身边亲友的建议，在Twitter上发布刻薄的言论。
Most presidents have made sure that there is a choreographed rollout of political messages and policy prescriptions before a State of the Union address. But Trump’s past week has been consumed by the revelation that he sought last year to fire Robert Mueller, the special counsel leading a Russia investigation, and by the abrupt departure of the FBI deputy director, Andrew McCabe, whom the president had railed against as politically corrupt.
大多数总统都会确保在国情咨文演说前夕，展示精心设计的政治信息及政策对策。但由于去年特朗普曾试图解雇主导俄罗斯调查的特别检察官罗伯特·穆勒(Robert Mueller)一事遭到曝光，特朗普在过去一周里一直忙于应付此事，以及FBI副局长安德鲁·麦凯布(Andrew McCabe)的突然离职，特朗普曾抨击后者有政治腐败行为。
At the same time, Republicans are pushing to make public a classified memo that they say shows a politically driven effort by the FBI and the Justice Department to malign Trump with manufactured allegations of links to Moscow. Democrats say the memo is a set of cherry-picked facts to distort the origins of the Russia investigation and undermined the inquiry.
与此同时，共和党人在努力让一份机密备忘录公之于众，他们说该备忘录显示了FBI和司法部的一项有政治目的的努力，捏造特朗普与莫斯科的关联，从而对他进行诽谤。民主党人说该备忘录是一系列经过挑选的事实，用来扭曲俄罗斯调查的缘由，并且破坏调查。
Presidents historically use the annual State of the Union address to tout the successes of their administrations, satisfying the reporting requirement in Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution by declaring that the country is on the right track.
历史上，总统们都会利用一年一度的国情咨文演讲夸耀其政府的成就，宣布国家走在正轨上，以满足美国宪法第二条第三款中对国会进行通报的要求。
Trump went even further, using his time in the spotlight to describe what he views as his major successes during his first year in office: the confirmation of Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, the rollback of regulations, a $1.5 trillion tax cut, the defeat of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, and historic gains in the stock market. The president claimed credit for setting off job growth and prompting businesses to shower their employees with bonuses.
特朗普在这方面走得更远，他把自己站在聚光灯下的时间用来描述他心目中自己执政第一年期间的重大成就：尼尔·M·戈萨奇(Neil M. Gorsuch)提名最高法院法官通过确认；各项规定的恢复；一项1.5万亿的减税；在伊拉克及叙利亚打败伊斯兰国(Islamic State)，还有在股市历史性的成就。总统声称对引发就业率增长和让各家企业给员工大量派发奖金有功。
“Just as I promised the American people from this podium 11 months ago, we enacted the biggest tax cuts and reform in American history,” Trump said. “Our massive tax cuts provide tremendous relief for the middle class and small businesses.”
“就像我11个月前，在这个讲台上对美国人民承诺的那样，我们颁布了美国历史上最大的减税及税改计划，”特朗普说。“我们大型的减税，为中产阶级和小型企业减轻了大量负担。”
Mr. Trump delivered his roughly 80-minute speech — the longest since President Bill Clinton in 2000 — almost verbatim from a teleprompter, staying uncharacteristically faithful to his prepared script as he paused for ovations, savoring an opportunity to promote his agenda and reaching for lofty statements about the strength of what he called “one American family.”
特朗普几乎一字不差地照着提词器发表了约一小时的演说——这是自比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)2000年的国情咨文以来最长的一次——他一反常态地忠实按照事前准备好的脚本，期间不时地暂停下来，等待掌声，细细品味着这个宣传其议程的机会，然后开始高声陈述他称之为“一个美国家庭”的力量。
Yet similar rhetoric by Trump has not lasted long. When he addressed a joint session of Congress weeks after his inauguration last year, Trump called for an end to “trivial fights.” Days later, he was on Twitter charging that President Barack Obama had tapped his phones in Trump Tower and calling for investigations into Democratic connections to Russia.
但特朗普的类似言论持续不了多长时间。去年就职几周后，他在国会联席会议上发表演讲时呼吁结束“鸡毛蒜皮的争斗”。但几天后，他就在Twitter上指控贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统窃听他在特朗普大厦的多部电话，并呼吁调查民主党与俄罗斯的关系。
This time, Trump delivered his speech in the middle of an intense immigration debate in Congress about the fate of the so-called Dreamers, young people who were brought illegally to the United States as children. The president has repeatedly expressed sympathy for the Dreamers even as he has moved to wind down an Obama-era program that shielded them from deportation. Trump used the speech to reiterate his proposal to grant about 1.8 million Dreamers legal status, including a path to citizenship, in exchange for stepped-up enforcement, the building of a wall on the southern border with Mexico, and a reordering of legal immigration channels that moves away from reuniting families and gives priority to higher-skilled immigrants.
这一次，特朗普发表讲话时，国会正在就所谓的“梦想者”(Dreamer)——即幼年被非法带到美国的年轻人——的命运进行激烈的移民辩论。特朗普多次表达对这些梦想者的同情，尽管他已经着手取消奥巴马时期的一个保护他们不被驱逐出境的计划。特朗普利用这次演说重申他的提议，即给予约180万梦想者合法地位，包括获得国籍的途径，以换取加大执法力度，在南部墨西哥边境修一堵墙，改革合法移民渠道。改革把重点从家人团聚转移到了高技能移民上。
“It is time to reform these outdated immigration rules, and finally bring our immigration system into the 21st century,” Trump said, calling his proposal a “down-the-middle compromise.”
“是时候改革这些过时的移民规定，最终带领我们的移民制度进入21世纪了，”特朗普说，并称他的提议是“折中的妥协”
The president, who has privately disparaged immigrants in conversations with his advisers and shocked lawmakers this month at an Oval Office meeting by using a vulgar term to disparage African nations that send immigrants to the United States, went out of his way to present himself as tolerant and appreciative of the nation’s diverse people.
特朗普特意对美国多元的人口表现出宽容和赞赏。但实际上，他私底下曾在与顾问的交谈中贬低移民。此外，本月在椭圆形办公室的一次会议上，他用粗俗的语言贬低让移民进入美国的非洲国家，令立法者大为震惊。
“So tonight I am extending an open hand to work with members of both parties, Democrats and Republicans, to protect our citizens, of every background, color, religion and creed,” he said.
“所以今晚，我伸出手，希望与民主党和共和党人携手，保护我们背景、肤色、宗教和信仰各异的公民。”
But the immigration proposal has drawn condemnation from Democrats who call it meanspirited and anti-immigration activists who see it as an unacceptable grant of amnesty. And as Trump spoke on Tuesday night, Democrats scowled, then began to boo and hiss when he talked about limiting the number of extended family members that immigrants can sponsor for citizenship once they gain legal status.
但这项移民提议遭到了民主党和反移民活动人士的谴责。前者称其卑鄙，后者认为这是一种不可接受的特赦。周二晚上特朗普发表演说时，民主党人怒不可遏。当他谈到应该限制获得合法身份的移民为大家庭成员入籍作担保的额度时，他们开始发出嘘声。
“Under the current broken system,” Trump said of a phenomenon that he calls “chain migration,” “a single immigrant can bring in virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives.”
“在当前的蹩脚制度下，”特朗普说的是被他称为“连锁移民”的现象，“一个移民可以带来的远亲人数几乎不受限制。”
Democrats used the occasion to send their own message to Trump on the matter: They invited Dreamers who were to lose their protections from deportation — as well as family members of people the Trump administration has detained and deported — to sit with them in the House chamber as the president spoke.
民主党人借此机会向特朗普传递了他们在这件事情上的态度：总统讲话时，他们邀请了即将失去保护措施——这些措施让他们可以免遭驱逐出境——的梦想者，以及被特朗普政府关押和驱逐出境者的家人，和他们一起坐在众议院里。
Trump also called on both parties in Congress to work together on a $1.5 trillion proposal to rebuild the country’s aging road network, its crumbling bridges and its leaking sewer systems. He provided little in the way of specifics on the proposal, other than to say that it should tap into private-sector and state and local funds in addition to federal dollars for a national initiative to “reclaim our building heritage.”
特朗普还呼吁国会两党在一项涉及1.5万亿美元的提议上展开合作。该提议旨在重建美国老化的公路网络、破败的桥梁和渗漏的下水道系统。他几乎没有提供这项提议的详情，只是说除了联邦资金外，一项全国性的行动还应该挖掘私营领域和州及地方资金，以“恢复我们的建筑遗产”。
Although the idea has wide bipartisan appeal, the details have the potential to start regional battles among lawmakers and partisan fights over how to pay for it.
尽管这个主意对两党都有广泛的吸引力，但相关细节可能会在议员中引发地区斗争，并在如何支付费用上引发党派斗争。
The president also promoted what he called his achievements around the world, hailing military victories against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, as a vindication of his pledge last year to extinguish the group “from the face of the earth.”
特朗普还对他自称在世界各地取得的成就进行了一番宣传，称打击又名ISIS的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的军事胜利实现了他去年让该组织“从地球上”消失的承诺。
“One year later, I’m proud to report that the coalition to defeat ISIS has liberated almost 100 percent of the territory once held by these killers in Iraq and Syria, but there is much more work to be done,” Trump said. “We will continue our fight until ISIS is defeated.”
“一年过去了，我自豪地宣布，反ISIS联盟已经接近百分之百地解放了伊拉克和叙利亚境内一度被这些杀人凶手占据的领土，但还有很多工作要做，”特朗普说。“我们将继续战斗，直到打败ISIS。”
The president included a tough message to the North Korean government and a denunciation of Kim Jong-un as a leader who has brutalized his own people and must be made to relinquish his nuclear program.
在演说中，特朗普还发出了给朝鲜政府的强硬讯息，并对作为领导人的金正恩残忍对待其人民的做法予以谴责，他还表示必须强制其放弃核计划。
Adding drama to moment, he paid tribute to previously unannounced guests who wept in the gallery: the parents of Otto Warmbier, the University of Virginia student who died after being detained for 17 months in North Korea. And he hailed the escape of Ji Seong-ho, a North Korean defector who lost his leg before his harrowing journey.
他对此前未经宣布、在旁听席上哭泣的客人——奥托·瓦姆比尔(Otto Warmbier)的父母予以致敬，为这一幕增添了些许戏剧性。瓦姆比尔是弗吉尼亚大学的学生，他在被朝鲜拘禁17个月后身亡。此外，特朗普还赞扬了脱北者金成浩（Ji Seong-ho，音）的逃脱，他在开始痛苦的旅程前失去了一只腿。
“Today he has a new leg, but Seong-ho, I understand you still keep those crutches,” Mr. Trump said as the young man triumphantly waved the crutches over his head.
“现在他有了新的一条腿，但成浩，我明白你还留着那些拐杖的原因，“特朗普说。这名年轻男子欢欣鼓舞地将拐杖在头上来回挥舞。