When he was 14, James Harrison needed surgery. And as he would come to find out, he would also need a significant amount of strangers’ blood to survive it.
詹姆斯·哈里森(James Harrison)14岁时曾接受过手术。后来他得知，自己能活下来还要靠大量来自陌生人的血液。
After he had recovered and as soon as he became an adult, Mr. Harrison felt compelled to pay it forward, he said. For the next 60 years he suppressed his strong distaste for needles — he says he has never watched one go into his arm — and gave blood every few weeks at locations across Australia.
长大后，已康复的哈里森感觉自己必须作出回报。在接下来的60年里，他压抑着自己对针头的强烈厌恶——他说他自己从未看着针头扎进手臂——每隔几周就去澳大利亚的各个地方献血。
Along the way, medical professionals made a stunning discovery: Mr. Harrison’s blood contained a rare antibody necessary to make a pioneering medication that officials at the Australian Red Cross Blood Service said had helped save more than two million babies from a potentially fatal disease.
与此同时，医生有了一个惊人的发现：哈里森的血液里含有一种制作开创性药物所需的罕见抗体，澳大利亚红十字会血液服务处称，这种药物已帮助挽救了超过两百万可能会患上致命疾病的婴儿。
They said more than three million doses of Anti-D, as the medication containing Mr. Harrison’s blood is called, have been issued to mothers since 1967.
他们表示自1967年起，已有超过三百万剂抗-D药物——即含有哈里森血液的药物——被发放给了母亲们。
On Friday, Mr. Harrison took his seat at Town Hall Blood Donor Center in Sydney for what would be his last donation. Medical officials at the Red Cross decided that at 81, their valued donor should stop giving to protect his own health.
周五，哈里森坐在了悉尼市政厅献血中心内，准备进行最后一次献血。红十字会的医生决定，他们的这位宝贵献血者应在81岁时停止献血，以保证他自己的健康。
Video recordings of the episode show Mr. Harrison — known to some as “the man with the golden arm” — grasping a stress ball as four silver balloons danced above him. The balloons were shaped in the numerals 1 1 7 3 — representing the total number of times Mr. Harrison has given blood.
视频记录了被人熟知为“拥有金手臂的男人”的这次献血，握着压力球，四个银色气球在他头顶舞动。气球的形状是数字1、1、7、3，代表着哈里森献血的总次数。
“The end of an era,” Mr. Harrison, a retired railway administrator, said on Sunday from his home in New South Wales. “It was sad because I felt like I could keep going.”
“一个时代的终结，”这位退休铁路管理人员周日在新南威尔士的家中说道。“挺悲伤的，因为我感觉我还能继续。”
The value of his contributions is hard to overstate.
要说他所做贡献的价值有多么大都不为过。
The Red Cross estimates that around 17 percent of Australian women who become pregnant need Anti-D injections to keep their babies healthy, and the injections can be made only from donated plasma, which, in Australia, comes from what officials describe as “a tiny pool” of around 160 donors who have the special antibody in their blood.
红十字会估计，澳大利亚大约有17%的孕妇需要注射抗-D才能维持婴儿健康，而注射剂只能从捐献的血浆中制得。在澳大利亚，官员称他们只有来自160位血液含特殊抗体的人献出的“少量”血浆储备。
Without the injections, babies with certain blood types that are different from their mothers’ can develop hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn, a potentially fatal condition. Officials estimated that as of last month, Mr. Harrison’s blood had helped more than 2.4 million babies.
如果没有注射剂，与母亲血型不同的某些血型的胎儿或新生儿会患上溶血病，这是一种可能会致命的疾病。官员估计，截至上个月，哈里森的血液帮助了超过240万婴儿。
“I cry just thinking about it,” Robyn Barlow, the program coordinator who recruited Mr. Harrison, told The Sydney Morning Herald.
“光是想想这件事，我都会流泪，”把哈里森招进抗-D项目的项目主管罗宾·巴洛(Robyn Barlow)告诉《悉尼先驱晨报》(The Sydney Morning Herald)。
Mr. Harrison had been donating blood for more than a decade when researchers found him in the 1960s and asked him to become the first donor in what would eventually come to be known as the Anti-D program.
在1960年被研究人员发现、并被邀请成为后来人们所熟知的“抗-D项目”首位捐献者之前，哈里森已经献了十多年的血。
His blood was exactly what they were looking for. His body naturally produces the antibody that prevents the hemolytic disease. Mr. Harrison said he was still not sure exactly why, but believes it might have something to do with the blood he received as a teenager.
他的血液正是他们所要找的。他的身体会自然产生预防溶血病的抗体。哈里森表示他还是不确定这是为什么，但他相信这与他少年时接受别人献的血液有关。
“The Red Cross and Australia can never thank a man like James enough,” said Jemma Falkenmire, a spokeswoman for the Australian Red Cross Blood Service. “It’s unlikely we will ever have another blood donor willing to make this commitment.”
“对詹姆斯这样的人，红十字会和澳大利亚是满怀感激的，”澳大利亚红十字会血液中心的女发言人杰玛·福克米尔(Jemma Falkenmire)说。“今后很难再找到如此全心奉献的捐献者了。”
Mr. Harrison has been widely praised and has received the Medal of the Order of Australia for his longtime support of the Australian Red Cross Blood Service and the Anti-D program. Ms. Falkenmire said researchers were even working on what they have called a “James in a Jar project,” with the goal of synthetically creating a mixture of antibodies that matches what Mr. Harrison produces naturally.
因为对澳大利亚红十字会血液中心和抗-D项目的长期支持，哈里森得到了广泛赞誉，还获得了澳大利亚勋章。福克米尔表示，研究人员甚至还在研究一个被他们称为“罐装詹姆斯”(James in a Jar)的项目，目的是合成一种与哈里森自然产生的抗体相吻合的混合抗体。
According to Ms. Falkenmire, medical professionals are able to stimulate production of the antibody in donors, but the process can lead to a flulike reaction. Complicating matters, she said, not every potential donor — even those with the right blood type — are able to create the antibody as Mr. Harrison can.
据福克米尔称，医学专业人士可以在献血者的体内刺激这种抗体的产生，但这一过程可能会导致一种类似流感的反应。她说，令事情更加复杂的是，即便这些捐献者血型合适，也并非每个潜在的献血者都能像哈里森一样产生抗体。
On Sunday, Mr. Harrison said he had enjoyed meeting the mothers, nurses and others who had gone out of their way over the years to find and thank him.
周日，哈里森表示，他很高兴能见到这些母亲、护士和这么多年来费了很大的劲来寻找并感谢他的其他人。
Even his daughter, Tracey Mellowship, was one of those to benefit from his blood.
就连他的女儿特雷西·马洛西普(Tracey Mellowship)也是他血液的受益者之一。
“Thank you dad for giving me the chance to have two healthy children — your grandchildren,” Ms. Mellowship wrote in a comment on a Facebook post about her father.
“爸爸，感谢你给了我机会让我拥有两个健康的孩子——你的外孙，”在Facebook上一则关于她父亲的帖子里，马洛西普在评论中写道。
Mr. Harrison deflected most of the praise with humor and humility.
哈里森用幽默和谦逊来回应这些赞扬。
“Blame me for the increase in population,” he said.
“人口增长都得怪我，”他说。
As for how he processes the idea that he has saved millions of babies, he said: “Saving one baby is good. Saving two million is hard to get your head around, but if they claim that’s what it is, I’m glad to have done it.”
至于如何看待拯救了数百万婴儿性命这个说法，他说：“拯救一个婴儿是很好的。拯救了两百万个就不太好理解了，但如果他们说就是这样，我很高兴我这么做了。”