NEW YORK — When it comes to the history of Chinese art, there are few traditions as revered as bimo, or brush and ink. From this simple combination of tool and material, China’s greatest achievements — landscape painting and calligraphy — flowed for centuries.
纽约——说起中国艺术的历史，笔墨的传统是受到无上推崇的。通过这种简单的工具和材料组合，中国最伟大的成就——山水画和书法——繁荣发展了千百年。
Bimo did not have an easy time in the 20th century, thanks initially to European modernism, and then to the Soviet-influenced Socialist Realism imposed by Mao. But things began to loosen up after Mao’s death in 1976, and brush and ink have enjoyed a kind of comeback that some artists call “experimental ink painting.”
但笔墨在20世纪的处境不佳，这首先是因为欧洲现代主义的流入，然后毛泽东又强行确立了苏联影响下形成的社会主义现实主义(Socialist Realism)的地位。但是，在毛泽东于1976年去世以后，形势开始回暖，笔墨艺术迎来了某种意义上的复兴，一些艺术家将之称为“实验性水墨”。
“Ink Art: Past as Present in Contemporary China,” at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, examines its resurgence. It presents 70 works by 35 artists, most born in the 1950s and ’60s, and several of whom have had little or no exposure in New York. It demonstrates that some artists have found new ways to use brush and ink on paper, while others have conjured its effects in photography, video, animation and even photo-based performance art.
正在大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)展出的“水墨艺术：借古说今中国当代艺术”(Ink Art: Past as Present in Contemporary China)即考察了笔墨艺术的复兴。展览呈现了35位艺术家的70部作品，他们多数出生于上世纪五六十年代，其中有几位之前在纽约鲜有曝光，或从未出现过。透过展览我们能够发现，一些艺术家已经找到了将笔墨呈现于纸的新方法，而另一些则以摄影、视频、动画，甚至是建立在照片基础上的行为艺术的形式呈现出了笔墨艺术的效果。
For example, Zhang Huan’s well-known “Family Tree,” from 2001, which consists of nine color photographs of the artist’s face being progressively inked with Chinese words, until it is completely black, as if Mr. Zhang had been consumed by the babble of his language or his thoughts. More benign are two color photographs by Huang Yan from 1999. Showing his torso painted with traditional landscape scenes, they communicate a sweet reverence for nature and painting itself.
例如，张洹2001年创作的著名作品《上海家谱》包括了9幅以张洹脸部为主的彩色照片，他的脸上用墨写上汉字，按顺序一幅比一幅更多，直到全部涂黑，就好像张洹被自己语言或思想的喋喋不休逐渐吞没。而黄岩1999年创作的两幅彩色照片形式则更为温和。照片中的主体是他的躯干，上面绘以传统的山水画图景，它们试图传递出对自然和绘画本身的一种善意尊敬。
The show endures a scattered installation, includes works that don’t always rise to the occasion, and wanders off message in spots, especially with several sculptures that don’t seem to belong here. This ploy seems to allow for some signature objects by Ai Weiwei, a marquee figure whom the Met may have deemed essential but that the show could have done without.
这场展览采用了一种分散的布展方式，包括了一些跟这种场合不相称的作品，传递信息的方式零散，特别是其中几件雕塑作品似乎就不应该在此地出现。这种布局似乎是特意为了摆放一些中国艺术代表人物艾未未的标志性作品而设计。大都会博物馆可能认为他十分重要，但对这场展览来说，他并非不可缺少。
“Ink Art” is the first survey of contemporary Chinese art at the Met, which has one of the greatest collections of traditional Chinese art in the West and an exhibition program to match. It has been organized by Maxwell K. Hearn, head of the Met’s department of Asian art and an expert in Chinese painting and calligraphy. Instead of a suite of temporary exhibition galleries, he has installed his show throughout the Met’s Chinese art galleries, sometimes in the company of much older material, or in rooms with profuse Chinese architectural touches and scroll-friendly vitrines that are usually reserved for paintings and calligraphy from the collection.
“水墨艺术”是大都会博物馆的第一场中国当代艺术展。大都会拥有在西方世界数一数二的中国传统艺术收藏，还有一项水平相当的展览项目。“水墨艺术”的策展人是精通中国书画的博物馆亚洲艺术部主任何慕文(Maxwell K. Hearn)。何慕文并没有布设临时展厅，而是将展品分布到大都会中国艺术展厅的各个角落，有时候会和一些古老得多的内容放在一起，或者放置的房间充满了中国建筑的元素以及可用于展出卷轴的玻璃柜。这些玻璃柜通常专门用来展出大都会的中国书画作品。
The installation stretches the show almost to the breaking point, with the first two artists marooned in a gallery near the Great Hall. The architecture also requires arrangements that blur the show’s themes: writing, landscape, abstraction and “beyond the brush.” But these arrangements also make historic works available for comparison, though it is rarely favorable to the contemporary fare. One example is Mr. Ai’s Han jar emblazoned with the Coca-Cola logo — a well-known one-liner — next to the Met’s own Han ceramics.
这种作品分布方式分散得让人几乎没法将它当做一场展览，最靠前的两名艺术家的作品远在靠近大堂的一个展厅里。而这种方式也要求展品在陈列时对展览的主题——字、风景、抽象概念和“画笔以外”——进行模糊化处理。但这种陈列方式也使得参观者能够将展品与历史作品进行对比，虽然这种对比很少对现代作品有利。一个例子是将艾未未刻有可口可乐(Coca-Cola)——著名广告语——图标的汉代陶罐放在大都会自己的汉代陶瓷藏品旁。
Still, “Ink Art” is something of a landmark in the way it places recent Chinese art against the backdrop of the vaunted brush and ink traditions. Furthermore, it has a formal focus too often missing from contemporary surveys. And some of the show’s unevenness may have benefits. The assembled works end up presenting both sides of a universal problem: how artists find their voices by working with, and against, the art that precedes them, or how they don’t find them, relying instead on bravura displays of skill, received ideas or a conceptual framework.
但“水墨艺术”从某种程度上来说仍然是一个里程碑式的展览，因为它将现代中国艺术放置到了广受称颂的水墨传统背景上。另外，它有一种当代审视中时常欠缺的形式关注。而展览中所出现的一些参差不齐可能也有其益处。这一作品集合从总体上展示了一个普遍存在的问题的两面：艺术家们如何在和先于他们的艺术进行合作与对抗的过程中，找到自己的表达方式，或者说，为什么他们没有将这些先于他们的艺术视作公认的理念或某种观念框架，从而去依赖精湛技法的展示。
The exhibition begins in the mid-1980s, when the intense period of post-Mao avant-garde catch-up came to fruition, and artists who had absorbed Western artistic ideas, from Duchamp to Pop Art and beyond — most notably, the Conceptual, process and performance strands of Post-Minimalism — began to emerge internationally.
展览设定的时间起点为上世纪80年代中期，在当时，后毛泽东时代奋起直追的先锋艺术开始结出成果，而已经接受了杜尚(Duchamp)、波普艺术(Pop Art)等——尤其值得一提的是后极简主义(Post-Minimalism)的观念性、过程和行为表演成分——西方艺术理念的艺术家们开始在国际上崭露头角。
The first of the show’s main galleries gets off to a stunning start with three large, mostly black hanging scrolls from Gu Wenda’s 1985 “Mythos of Lost Dynasties” series, which combine some giant Chinese characters and extravagantly brushed surfaces with a bit of relatively realistic landscape, all of which resembles a fast-approaching storm.
展览有一个震撼人心的起点，步入第一个主要展厅，三幅黑色基调的巨幅立轴挂在墙上，是出自谷文达的1985年“遗失的王朝”系列的作品，将巨大的汉字、夸张的凹凸笔触和相对写实的风景结合起来，给人感觉如同一场扑面而来的风暴。
Adjacent is “Character Image of Black Character Font,” from 1989, a single work on six large sheets of paper by Wu Shanzhuan, a conceptualist. This bold concoction of blocky calligraphy in black on red and white appropriates the scaled-up characters and palette of the Cultural Revolution. It also gives you a slight sense of Mr. Wu’s “Red Humor” installations of a few years earlier, one of which is reproduced in the exhibition catalog (and bears a resemblance to the six-sided environments that Barbara Kruger would soon be making). Further adventures in calligraphy include the enormous, swashbuckling abstractions of Wang Dongling, and Xu Bing’s 1991 “Book From the Sky,” an immersive installation of hand-printed books and wall and ceiling scrolls whose invented characters are equally illegible to Easterners and Westerners.
相邻的是概念艺术家吴山专于1989年在六张大幅画纸上创作的单件作品《字象的黑体》。吴山专借用了文化大革命时期的巨大汉字和配色，将红白底与黑色的粗体书法大胆混合在一起。它让人隐约想起吴山专几年前的“红色幽默”装置作品，在此次展览的图录中登载了其中的一件（与芭芭拉·克鲁格[Barbara Kruger]即将在一个方形空间里创作的作品有相似之处）。更加冒险的书法艺术作品包括王冬龄张扬的巨幅抽象作品，以及徐冰1991年的《天书》，这个浸入式的装置作品将手工印刻的书本和卷轴铺满天花板和墙壁，上面写满由他发明的、东方人和西方人都不认识的文字。
The abundance of highly skilled artifice in these works may reflect Mr. Hearn’s familiarity with classic Chinese material, and lack of same with all kinds of contemporary art. But like them or not, these bravura works will at least briefly grab your attention. Skill does that. The grabbiest is an exquisite hand scroll by Yang Yongliang, who was born in 1980 and trained in traditional Chinese landscape painting before turning to the digital photomontage technique in “A View of Tide.” This hyper-refined tribute to a 12th-century Song dynasty hand scroll comments on the rapid development of the new China: Soon you see that the rocky islands and dense forests are actually high-rise apartment buildings and power-line towers.
这些作品充分展示出的高超技艺或许反映了何慕文对中国传统元素的熟悉，以及同等程度的对各种当代艺术的不熟悉。但不论喜欢与否，这些精湛的作品至少会暂时吸引你的注意。技艺确实能做到这点。最吸引人的是一幅杨泳梁创作的精致画卷，杨泳粱出生于1980年，曾学习中国传统山水画，后来在创作《观潮》时使用了数字照片合成技术。这个展现了12世纪宋代艺术风格的精美画卷对新中国的快速发展做出了评论：你很快会发现，布满岩石的岛屿和茂密森林实际上是高层公寓建筑和输电塔。
Other contenders are Liu Dan’s overwrought “Ink Handscroll” (1990), a dense, partly orange landscape with a plethora of O’Keeffe-like forms that might almost be an illustration for a science fiction story, and Ren Jian’s more serenely cosmic “Primeval Chaos” of 1987-88. The big ink-on-paper panels of Zhang Yu depict dark, chunky forms that suggest an exploding meteor or stacked slabs of cracked asphalt, rendered with a nearly photographic tightness that makes them overly dramatic. Mr. Liu’s 1991 “Dictionary,” an immense ink and watercolor rendering of a small dictionary, is less showy but is even more easily mistaken for a photograph.
其他类似的作品包括刘丹的一幅极其细腻的《水墨画卷》(1990)——这幅密集的、带着一些橙色的风景画有着太多奥基夫式(O’Keeffe)的形状，几乎可以作为科幻小说的插图；任戬以宇宙为主题的画作《元化》(1987-88)则比较平和。张羽的一些裱在板上的纸本水墨画描绘了黑暗、厚重的景象，让人想起爆炸的流星或一块块堆积起来的干裂沥青，摄影般紧密的着色使画面看起来十分夸张。刘丹1991年创作的《字典》利用大量的水墨及水彩描画了一本小字典，没那么炫技，却更容易被错认为照片。
There are engaging antidotes to such high finish. Duan Jianyu, one of the few women in the show, contributes fragmented images of traditional Chinese landscape isolated on pieces of cardboard. Liu Wei’s “Untitled No. 6 ‘Flower,’ ” a 2003 hand scroll inhabited by a tribe of exuberantly androgynous creatures amid thickets of drawing, writing and landscape in assorted mediums, feels exceptionally personal in this context. Li Huasheng’s four hanging scrolls from 2006 present a minute grid, drawn freehand with obvious concentration. These netlike surfaces are as much feats of endurance as anything, and as you look at them, hints of architecture and other forms start to emerge.
还有一些与这种完美风格截然不同的作品十分引人注目。段建宇——本次展览中的少数女性艺术家之一——将中国传统山水画分割开来，放置在一些分离的纸板上。刘炜的《无题 No.6（花）》(2003)手卷描绘的是一群生气勃勃的无性生物，周围是许多材料不一的图画、文字和风景组成的丛林，在此种背景下显得极具个人色彩。李华生2006年创作的四幅立轴呈现了一个细密的网格，这些徒手创作的网格显然需要极大的专注力才能完成。这些网状的画面表层是忍耐力的胜利，当你仔细查看时，画面中又会呈现出建筑及其他的形状。
Many of the works simply put a Chinese spin on familiar art-making strategies, especially the remade readymade sculpture. Here, this means round-back Chinese armchairs in stainless steel, scholar’s rocks cast in purple silicon (like Rachel Whiteread’s mattresses) or stainless steel (like Jeff Koons’s “Louis XIV”) and a handsome ceremonial robe made in clear plastic and embroidered with pale green vinyl fishing wire.
有很多作品只是给熟知的艺术创作手段添加了一些中国元素，特别是对成品雕塑的重塑。比如由不锈钢制成的中式圆背椅，由紫硅（类似蕾切尔·怀特雷[Rachel Whiteread的床垫）或不锈钢（类似杰夫·昆斯[Jeff Koons]的路易十四半身像）浇筑的供石，以及一件由透明塑料制成并绣有淡绿色塑料鱼线的华美礼服。
There’s a similar familiarity to the expertly hand-drawn animations of Chen Shaoxiong, who is overly dependent on photographs, and Qiu Anxiong, who conjures a more fanciful world in a manner reminiscent of William Kentridge. More gripping is Sun Xun’s “Some Actions Which Haven’t Been Defined Yet in the Revolution,” which animates woodblock prints and (it seems) actual wood blocks, and Yang Fudong’s video “Liu Lan,” a romantic encounter between real actors set on a pale lake where water, mist and sky are one.
同样给人似曾相识感觉的，还有陈劭雄手法精湛、极度依赖摄影的动画作品，以及用一种让人想到威廉·肯特里奇(William Kentridge)的手法绘制了一个怪诞世界的邱黯雄。更引人注意的是孙逊的《一场革命中还未来得及定义的行为》，用木刻版画和（看起来是）真的木块来制作动画，还有杨福东的录像作品《留兰》，展现了一派水、雾、天融为一体的湖景中，真人扮演的人物的一场浪漫邂逅。