The image of the American factory floor is as classic as Henry Ford’s Model T assembly line and just as enduring in the popular imagination. For decades, manufacturing jobs have been the ladder to the middle class for Americans of modest means and education.
在普罗大众的想像中，美国工厂的形象就像福特T型车组装线一样传统，也与之一样历久不衰。数十年来，从事制造业工作都是家境平平、教育背景普通的美国人晋身中产阶级之道。
So when Made in NYC, a group that promotes local manufacturing, began an advertising campaign this spring, its goal was more than just to draw attention to items produced in the city. Supporters of that group and others like it around the country are trying to redefine what American manufacturing means in the 21st century. They hope to capitalize on a newfound embrace of artisanal and handcrafted goods and urge consumers accustomed to big-box globalization to think of their shopping habits in the context of local economic investment.
因此，当推广本地制造业的团体“纽约市制造”(Made in NYC)在今年春天开始进行广告宣传的时候，他们的目标不只是吸引大家对本城产品的注意力。“纽约市制造”与全美各地类似团体的支持者，还想重新定义“美国制造”在21世纪代表的意义。借着民众对工艺与手作商品新生的爱好，这些团体希望能促使习惯了全球化大卖场的消费者从资助本地经济的角度来思考自己的购物习惯。
“Urban manufacturing creates opportunity,” said Adam Friedman, director of the Pratt Center for Community Development, which developed Made in NYC. “We’re coming out of a recession, which really drove home the point that you need a strong manufacturing base to create jobs.”
“都会区的制造业可以创造契机，”普瑞特社区开发中心(Pratt Center for Community Development)的主任亚当·弗里德曼(Adam Friedman)表示；“纽约市制造”就是该中心推出的。“我们在慢慢摆脱经济衰退，而这次衰退也确实证明了：想要创造工作机会，一定要有坚实的制造业基础。”
When Made in NYC was conceived in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, “this was a strategy to both encourage consumers to shop more locally and to get companies to buy from each other to strengthen local supply chains,” Mr. Friedman said.
“纽约市制造”自2001年的9·11恐怖攻击的余波中萌芽，当时“这个策略是为了鼓励消费者购买更多本地产品、同时促进公司间互相采购以强化本地供应链，”弗里德曼表示。
Growth was initially slow, until four or five years ago. “Something dramatic changed,” he said. “I think there was really a shift in consumer preferences. It coincided with the whole locavore movement.”
他们刚开始的进展比较缓慢，直到四五年前才有所改观。“那时候起了些很大的变化，”弗里德曼说。“我认为消费者的喜好的确转变了。这和整个‘本土膳食’的潮流不谋而合。” 
Seizing on this trend, and with $750,000 from the New York City Council, Made in NYC introduced its recent campaign with “Dreams, Jobs and ____,” and, “Made Here in NYC.”
“纽约市制造”抓住这股风潮，再加上市议会提拨的75万美元补助，他们为近来这波宣传活动推出的口号有“梦想、工作......还有一项请自填！”，以及“别无分号，纽约市制造”。
“We’re helping businesses learn how to market themselves a little more, but also doing a public branding campaign,” said Melissa Mark-Viverito, the City Council speaker. “We’re raising that level of consciousness and awareness.”
“我们在协助各公司行号学习如何更好地自我营销，同时也对社会大众做品牌推广，”市议会议长梅利莎·马克-维夫里托(Melissa Mark-Viverito)表示。“我们在提升大家对这方面的意识。”
This quest to revitalize urban manufacturing is not limited to New York City.
振兴都会区制造业的呼声不只出现在纽约。 
Founded in 2011, the Urban Manufacturing Alliance is a grass-roots effort to help small manufacturers. Led by the Pratt Center and an alliance of manufacturers in San Francisco called SFMade, it has members in 115 cities, including Cincinnati, Detroit and Seattle. This year it formed a committee to focus on local marketing strategies, said Lee Wellington, the group’s founding executive director.
成立于2011年的都会制造业联盟(Urban Manufacturing Alliance)是致力于协助小型生产商的草根团体。该团体由普瑞特中心牵头，同时也和旧金山生产商组成的“SF制造”(SFMade)结盟。都会制造业联盟的会员来自辛辛那提、底特律和西雅图等115座城市。创立联盟的执行主任李·威灵顿(Lee Wellington)表示，今年他们成立了一个专攻本地市场营销策略的委员会。
“Within the economic development movement, there isn’t always a recognition that branding is a viable strategy,” Ms. Wellington said. Urban manufacturers are realizing that, along with issues like zoning regulations and land use rules, marketing plays a role in advocacy — retaining industrial zoning in gentrifying neighborhoods, for instance — as well as increasing sales.
“在促进经济发展的运动里，打造品牌并不总是被视为可行的策略，”威灵顿表示。然而都会区生产商正在体认到，市场营销也在倡议活动中发挥了作用，就像城市规划与土地使用条例这类课题一样——比如在日益士绅化的邻里中保留工业区规划。此外，营销还会提升销售业绩。
“That’s an important element to this whole movement,” Ms. Wellington said. “It creates a stronger relationship between the consumer market in these cities and the maker movement.”
“品牌营销在这整个运动里是很重要的元素，”威灵顿说。“它为这些城市的消费者市场和生产商运动创造了更稳固的连结。” 
Ms. Wellington predicted that the New York City campaign would attract attention from other members.
威灵顿女士预测，纽约市的推广活动会吸引都会制造业联盟里其他成员的目光。
“We’re seeing a lot of interest in how this can be replicated,” she said.
“我们看到很多人对如何复制纽约的模式大感兴趣，”她说。
Since modern urban factories are more high-tech and nimble than their predecessors, manufacturers today can create a wide array of products in smaller spaces, and Made in NYC wanted to communicate that in its campaign.
由于近代的都会区厂房与往昔的产业相较更偏向高科技产品，生产模式也更为灵活，今日的制造业者能在较小的空间内创造出丰富的产品线。“纽约市制造”想要在推广活动中让大家明白这一点。
“Our main objective was to highlight the diversity of things that are made here,” said T. J. McCormick, partner and executive creative director at Eyeball, a strategic design and branding firm that is working with Made in NYC.
“我们的主要目标是突显本地出品的多样性，”Eyeball的合伙人和执行创意总监T·J·麦考密克(T. J. McCormick)说。他所在的是一家战略设计与品牌推广公司，正与“纽约市制造”合作。
Antonio Reynoso, a city councilman whose district includes the North Brooklyn Industrial Business Zone, has supported the Council’s involvement in the campaign. “About 40 percent of my district that I represent is manufacturing,” he said. “We have chair makers. We have belt makers. We have food distributors and packagers.”
市议员安东尼奥·雷诺索(Antonio Reynoso)所在的选区包含北布鲁克林工业商业区(North Brooklyn Industrial Business Zone)。他对市议会参与这一活动抱支持态度。“我代表的选区中，大约40%从事制造业，”他说。“我们有制椅匠、做腰带的师傅、食品批发商和包装工等等。”
The challenge was portraying that diversity in a cohesive way. In the new ads, the blank representing the final word of “Dreams, Jobs and ____” is variously filled in with examples as diverse as guitars and gourmet food.
此事面临的挑战在于，如何用一种协调一致的方式传递出其中的多样性。在新广告里，补充完整“梦想、工作……还有一项请自填”的例子，既有“吉他”，也有“美食”，包罗万象。
Similarly, there was a deliberate choice to use the word “made” in the ads instead of “manufactured.”
类似地，在广告中采用“made”而非“manufactured”的措辞也是有意为之。
“There are a lot of associations with it — that it’s just old-school tooling and heavy machinery and stuff, which is why we ultimately landed on the word ‘made,’” Mr. McCormick said. “It softens it a little bit, makes it feel more broad.”
“有很多概念会跟‘manufactured’联系起来——老旧的机床、重型机械之类的。因此我们最终选择了‘made’，”麦考密克说。“它稍微柔和一些，感觉涵盖的范围更广。”
The campaign includes a social element, which uses geography to focus ads and incorporates a quiz about locally made products, said Noreen O’Loughlin, Made in NYC’s program director. The group is also investing in targeted digital advertising, created by Eyeball, to increase its reach, especially among young adults.
“纽约市制造”的项目总监诺琳·欧洛克林(Noreen O’Loughlin)表示，这波宣传活动还包含了社交元素，利用地理位置来突出广告，并融入了有关当地产品的小测验。为了扩大覆盖面，尤其是打动年轻人，他们还在Eyeball打造的定向数字广告上进行了投入。
To reach New Yorkers while they are commuting or running errands, the campaign uses billboards and advertisements on kiosks and subways in places like Manhattan’s garment district and the Lower East Side, along the Long Island Expressway and in neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens. “We felt we needed to be on the street and in front of people,” Mr. McCormick said.
为了让纽约客在交通出行或处理杂事的同时注意到“纽约市制造”，他们动用了报刊亭和地铁线的标语牌和广告位，地点覆盖了曼哈顿美食区、下东区、长岛高速沿线，以及布鲁克林和皇后区。“我们感觉，需要走上街头，呈现在人们的面前，”麦考密克说。
“Educating that consumer base is, I think, what the Made in NYC campaign is all about, and so much of what we’re trying to do with our entire member base across the country,” Ms. Wellington said. “It’s communicating the value of manufacturing.”
“我想，培育基础消费群体是‘纽约市制造’宣传活动的核心。我们与全美各地的所有会员一起努力的也就是这个，”威灵顿说。“是要传递出制造业的价值。”