BEIJING — The scam may be as old as the automobile itself: A fraudster throws himself in front of a vehicle and demands that the driver pay for his self-inflicted (or nonexistent) injuries. But in an age of ever-present cameras, it’s getting a lot harder to pull off.
北京——这种骗术可能跟汽车一样古老：骗子撞向汽车，然后要求司机赔偿自己造成的（或不存在的）伤害。但在一个到处都是摄像头的时代，再这么骗钱就不是那么容易了。
There are scores of videos online that capture these scams, known in China as “pengci,” or “porcelain bumping.” The video above, posted last month, shows a woman in Yongzhou, in the central province of Hunan, taking the scam to brash extremes. After getting money from the driver of a car she had lain in front of, she boasts to bystanders and even does a little jig in front of the car.
在中国，这种骗术被称为“碰瓷”，网上有不少的碰瓷视频。上面这个上月发布的视频显示了在中部省份湖南的永州，一个女人刷新了碰瓷的下限。在从她之前躺倒的那辆轿车的司机那里讹到钱后，还向旁观者吹嘘自己的本事，甚至在汽车前面手舞足蹈起来。
Here’s an excerpt from the exchange between the woman and the driver:
这个女人和司机之间的部分对话如下：
Driver: “What do you want? Get up! Go away! Quick!”
司机：“你想干什么？站起来！到那旁边！快点！”
Woman: “What, not even 20 renminbi?”
女人：“20块都舍不得吗？”
(The driver apparently slips 20 renminbi, about $3, under the windshield wipers of the car. The woman retrieves it to laughter from the crowd and breaks into a dance.)
（司机似乎把20元人民币放在了汽车雨刮下面，这个女子在人群的哄笑声中拿走钱，然后跳起舞来。）
The woman then says to the person filming, “Photograph me! It’s only 20 renminbi, but I can make 250 in an hour!’’
女人然后对拍视频的人说，“给我照个相！虽然20块钱，我半个小时250块！”
She is later seen on the ground in front of another car.
后来又看到她躺在另一辆车面前。
In another video, from November, a fashionably dressed young woman deliberately sprawls on the street in front of an expensive-looking S.U.V., challenging the driver to run her over. Eventually she is dragged away by the police.
还有一个视频，是去年11月拍的，一个衣着时髦的年轻女子故意倒在一辆看起来很高级的SUV前，让司机有本事从她身上压过去。最后她被警察拖走了。
In Nanning, the capital of the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region in southern China, a man throws himself repeatedly at a stationary bus until the police intervene.
在中国南部广西壮族自治区的城市南宁，一名男子反复撞向一辆停下来的公共汽车，直到警察前来干预。
Some attempts have resulted in broken bones or even death on the part of the “professional porcelain bumpers,” as they are known.
一些“职业碰瓷者”因此骨折，甚至死亡。
There is no reliable information on the scale of the fraud, and it is usually not prosecuted. For many victims, paying a bit of cash is preferable to arguing with the perpetrator or having to navigate China’s challenging legal system.
目前还没有碰瓷规模的可靠信息，通常碰瓷者也不会被起诉。对于很多受害者来说，拿出点钱打发他们更省事，免得和碰瓷者争吵或者去走中国充满挑战的司法制度。
But on Saturday, a court in Shenyang, in the northeastern province of Liaoning, sentenced two men to 11 months in prison and fined them about $3,000 each for targeting small trucks while driving a three-wheeled motorized vehicle typically used by disabled people.
但在上周六，两名男子因为驾驶残疾人三轮车去碰瓷小货车，被东北省份辽宁沈阳的一所法院判处了11个月有期徒刑，并处以罚金人民币2万元。
The men confessed that they had earned about $1,500 over 10 days last year through the scam.
两人承认，他们去年通过碰瓷在10天内就赚了约一万元人民币。
The term “pengci” derives from the practice of dishonest shopkeepers placing a porcelain item in a spot where it was likely to get knocked over and broken, allowing them to claim damages from the “clumsy” customer, said David Schak, an anthropologist at Griffith University in Australia.
澳大利亚格里菲斯大学(Griffith University)人类学者沙学汉(David Schak)说，“碰瓷”这个词最早来自不诚实的店主将瓷器放在很有可能撞翻打破的地方，然后要求“笨手笨脚”的顾客进行赔偿。
Videos of the modern scam started appearing on China’s internet several years ago, and the perpetrators have become the butt of jokes and a source of public entertainment.
现代碰瓷骗局的视频几年前开始在中国的互联网上出现，碰瓷者已成为了笑柄和公共娱乐的来源。
Mr. Schak said the scam was usually perpetrated by people who, “out of a combination of laziness, desperation and being thick-skinned, will resort to it to try to make a buck, or a yuan,” another term for China’s currency.
沙学汉说，碰瓷者通常是“因为懒惰、绝望、厚脸皮，想通过这种方式来赚钱”。
Chinese are more than fed up with the trick, as comments below the video of the jubilant scammer in Yongzhou suggested.
中国人对这种伎俩感到厌烦，永州那个骄傲的碰瓷者视频下面有这样的评论。
“Should have squashed her,” one commenter wrote.
“应该碾死她，”一个人留言说。
“Don’t put up videos like this. It’s shameful,” another said.
“不要推这种视频。太丢人了，”另一个人说。
Ren Fan, the judge who presided over the case in Shenyang last week, offered his advice to avoid falling prey to the scam. Do not violate traffic regulations, he said, as any vulnerability may be exploited. Do not panic or try to buy off the scammer. And if money is paid, insist on a receipt, get the person’s ID number and report the episode to the police.
怎样避免成为碰瓷的受害者呢，上周主持审理改碰瓷案的沈阳法官任凡提供了一些建议。不要违反交通规则，他说，因为任何把柄都可能被人利用。不要惊慌，不要试图收买骗子。如果给钱，就要坚持对方开收据，记下对方的身份证号码，并向警方报案。