Donald J. Trump is now the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, but he is also keenly aware that many in his own party — and many Americans, frankly — are scared and anxious about the idea of him in the Oval Office. Even he is not sure how a deeply divided nation would adjust to the first 100 days of a Trump presidency.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)现在是共和党总统提名大热人选，但他也深知自己政党中的许多人——坦白讲是很多美国人——对于他入主椭圆形办公室的可能性感到惊恐和焦虑。就连他也不确定这样一个极为分裂的国家要如何适应特朗普当上总统的头100天。
What he does know, however, is what he wants to do in those early months. In a series of recent interviews, he sketched out plans that include showdowns with business leaders over jobs and key roles for military generals, executives and possibly even family members in advising him about running the country.
不过，他知道自己在掌权的最初几个月里要做些什么。在最近接受的一系列采访中，他列出了多项计划，包括就工作机会问题与商界领袖摊牌，让军方将领、企业高管乃至家庭成员发挥关键作用，听取他们有关自己该如何治理这个国家的建议。
Shortly after the Nov. 8 election, President-elect Trump and his vice president — most likely a governor or member of Congress — would begin interviewing candidates for the open Supreme Court seat and quickly settle on a nominee in the mold of Justice Antonin Scalia.
在11月8日的大选结束后不久，候任总统特朗普和他的副总统——很可能是位州长或国会议员——将开始约谈可以填补最高法院大法官空缺的候选人，快速敲定一位具有安东宁·斯卡利亚大法官(Justice Antonin Scalia)风范的人选。
He would start “building a government based on relationships,” perhaps inviting the Republican leaders Paul D. Ryan and Mitch McConnell to escape the chilly Washington fall and schmooze at Mar-a-Lago over golf and two-pound lobsters.
他会开始“基于人际网络建立起一个政府”，或许还会邀请共和党领袖保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)和米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)到他的马阿拉歌庄园做客，躲避华盛顿寒冷的秋天，在打高尔夫和品尝2磅重的大龙虾时进行亲密的交谈。
On Inauguration Day, he would go to a “beautiful” gala ball or two, but focus mostly on rescinding Obama executive orders on immigration and calling up corporate executives to threaten punitive measures if they shift jobs out of the United States.
就任那一天，他会参加一两场“完美的”庆祝舞会，但他的精力主要还是集中在废除奥巴马有关移民的行政令，以及召集企业高管，威胁他们要是胆敢把就业岗位移到美国以外的地方，就对他们采取惩罚措施。
And by the end of his first 100 days as the nation’s 45th leader, the wall with Mexico would be designed, the immigration ban on Muslims would be in place, the audit of the Federal Reserve would be underway and plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act would be in motion.
等到他坐上美国45任总统宝座满100天的时候，美国和墨西哥边境的隔离墙应该设计好了，针对穆斯林移民的禁令已经出台，对美联储(Federal Reserve)的审计已开始，废除《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的计划业已启动。
“I know people aren’t sure right now what a President Trump will be like,” he said. “But things will be fine. I’m not running for president to make things unstable for the country.”
“我知道大家现在还不确定特朗普总统会是什么样子，”他说。“但一切都会没事儿的。我竞选总统可不是为了让这个国家变得不稳定。”
The New York Times interviewed Mr. Trump three times over the past two months, most recently on Saturday, as well as several campaign advisers and Trump confidants.
过去两个月里，《纽约时报》曾三次采访特朗普，最近一次是在周六。我们还采访了几个竞选顾问及特朗普的心腹。
The possibility of Mr. Trump in the Oval Office — an outcome that once seemed fanciful — became less remote on Tuesday night when Mr. Trump’s main challenger, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, quit the race and on Wednesday, Gov. John Kasich, indicated he would withdraw too.
特朗普入主椭圆形办公室一度被视为天方夜谭。但周二晚上，他的主要竞争对手参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)宣布退出竞选；周三，俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)也表示会退出。这样一来，特朗普问鼎总统宝座的几率就不那么渺茫了。
Despite his radical vision of how to remake America, and all his outrageous talk on juvenile subjects like his anatomy — to say nothing of the polls showing him behind Hillary Clinton — Jan. 20 may find the most underestimated politician in America assuming the presidency.
他关于如何重塑美国的观点颇为激进，他就一些幼稚的话题——比如他的身体部位——发表的言论非常离谱，更不用说民调结果显示他的支持率落后于希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。但明年1月20日，这位全美国最被低估的政客还是有可能就任总统。
While professing some surprise at his success, Mr. Trump increasingly sounds like a man who thinks he knows where he will be eight months from now, and the unrivaled power he will hold. He talked of turning the Oval Office into a high-powered board room, empowering military leaders over foreign affairs specialists in national security debates, and continuing to speak harshly about adversaries. He may post on Twitter less, but everyone will still know what he thinks.
尽管声称对自己取得的成功感到吃惊，但特朗普看上去越来越像这样一个人：自认很清楚再过八个月他会走到哪一步，以及他会掌握何等无与伦比的权力。他谈到要把椭圆形办公室变成一个高效的董事会会议室，要让军方领导人在关于国家安全事务的讨论中凌驾于外事专家之上，还要继续以犀利的言辞谈论对手。他发Twitter帖子的频率或许会降低，但大家还是会知道他在想什么。
“As president, I’ll be working from the first day with my vice president and staff to make clear that America will be changing in major ways for the better,” Mr. Trump said in a telephone interview on Saturday. “We can’t afford to waste time. I want a vice president who will help me have a major impact quickly on Capitol Hill, and the message will be clear to the nation and to people abroad that the American government will be using its power differently.”
“作为总统，我从上任的第一天开始，就会和我的副总统以及工作人员通力合作，让公众明白，美国会作出一些重大改变，朝好的方向发展，”特朗普上周六接受电话采访时表示。“我们浪费不起时间。我需要一个能够帮助我迅速在国会山产生重大影响的副总统，而且必须向美国人和外国人清晰地传递这样一个信息：美国政府会以不同的方式使用自己的权力。”
But he also acknowledged that he might face significant and incessant protests — even thousands of demonstrators massing on the National Mall as he takes the oath of office nearby at the Capitol.
但他也承认，自己可能要面对持续不断的重大抗议活动——甚至就连他在国会大厦宣誓就职时，也会有数以千计的示威者聚集在附近的国家广场上。
Mr. Trump said he would try to unite Republicans and disaffected Democrats and independents over the next six months before the November election, and then work in office to show Americans that his chief interest was fighting for their needs. He argued that the fact that he would not have to rely on wealthy donors to finance his campaign would ultimately prove appealing to many voters as they realize he is not “bought and paid for.”
特朗普说，他会利用未来的六个月，在11月的大选日来临前把共和党人、心怀不满的民主党人以及独立人士团结起来，然后在总统的位置上努力工作，让美国人民知道，他最想做的是为满足他们的需求而战。他指出，他不必依赖富有的捐赠者为竞选提供资助，这一点终将吸引到许多选民，因为他们会意识到他不会“被买断”。
“I know everyone won’t like everything I do, but I’m not running to be everyone’s favorite president,” Mr. Trump said. “Things are seriously wrong in this country. People are hurting, business is hurting. I’m running to move quickly to make big changes.”
“我知道不是所有人都喜欢我做的每一件事，但我参加竞选不是为了成为所有人都喜爱的总统，”特朗普说。“这个国家的情况非常糟糕。人民正受到伤害，生意正受到伤害。我竞选的目的是迅速行动，促成重大变革。”
Mr. Trump did seem aware that his early months could be consumed with trying to win confirmation for his cabinet and perhaps a new Supreme Court justice and with making appointments throughout the bureaucracy.
特朗普看起来的确知道，他在就任后可能先要花好几个月时间，竭力让自己的内阁人选——或许还有新一任最高法院大法官人选——获得通过，以及对政府内的诸多职位进行委任。
He made it clear that he was not interested in delegating these tasks and that he wanted to make sure his appointees shared his governing philosophy. One of his closest advisers, his daughter Ivanka, would probably stay with his company, but he said he would seek counsel from her and her husband, the businessman Jared Kushner, and noted that family members had served in administrations before.
他明确表示，无意分派这些差事给别人，他想确保被任命者和他有着相同的治理理念。作为跟他关系最密切的一个顾问，他女儿伊万卡或许还会留在他的公司里，但他会向女儿及其从商的丈夫贾德·库斯纳 (Jared Kushner) 寻求建议。他还指出，以前有过总统的家人在政府部门任职的先例。
Even jobs that might seem incidental in a Trump universe, like a United States ambassador to the United Nations, have apparently crossed his mind.
就连一些在特朗普的世界里看似无关紧要的工作，比如美国驻联合国大使，他似乎也已经考虑到了。