JERUSALEM — Within days of Donald J. Trump’s election to the presidency, Jerusalem’s city planning chief declared an end to the era of holding up new housing for Jewish residents in contentious neighborhoods out of deference to American objections.
耶路撒冷——唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)当选美国总统没几天，耶路撒冷城市规划局局长便宣布，由于美国的反对而推迟在有争议区域为犹太居民建造新房屋的时代终结了。
Last week, he followed through, advancing a long-delayed plan to build 500 homes, a down payment on thousands more to come. The mayor’s office insisted that the timing was coincidental and the decision not political. But the planning chief made clear that he saw a green light to proceed “now that Trump” had won.
随后，他于上周开始推动一个被长期搁置的建造500栋房屋的计划。这只是首批项目，之后还会有数千栋房子。市长办公室坚称，这只是时间上的巧合，称该决策没有政治上的考量。但规划局局长明确表示，“由于特朗普”获胜，他看到了放行的信号。
Call it the Trump Effect. Around the world, his election is already shaping events — or at least perceived to be shaping them — even though he will not take office for seven more weeks. Companies hoping to profit from Mr. Trump’s economic policies have seen shares soar. Countries fearing his anti-trade stance have seen the value of their currencies plunge against the dollar. Governments are recalibrating policies on trade, defense and immigration.
这就是特朗普效应。他的当选已经在影响世界各地一些事件的进程——至少被认为在影响它们——尽管他还有七周多的时间才会就任。有望从特朗普的经济政策中受益的企业股票飙升。对他的反贸易立场感到担忧的国家则出现了本国货币对美元大幅贬值的情况。许多政府都在重新调整有关贸易、国防和移民的政策。
The behavior of the global markets toward Mr. Trump has been uneven. By Monday, the dollar was slipping and bond markets were rallying, partly over a rethinking about whether Mr. Trump’s presidency will result in inflation, an expectation that many traders have been calling Trumpflation.
全球市场因特朗普而表现不一。至周一，美元在下滑，债券市场则出现反弹，部分原因在于对特朗普当选是否会导致通货膨胀——有不少交易员称这一预期为“特朗普通胀”(Trumpflation)——进行的反思。
Much of the markets’ mixed reaction reflects uncertainty about a new president who has never held public office, leaving political leaders, business executives and international institutions to make bets on how a Trump administration may rewrite rules that have governed global affairs under American presidents of both parties.
市场的不同反应大多反映出对一位从未担任过公职的新总统的不确信态度，这让政治领袖、商业高管和国际机构不得不对特朗普政府会如何改写美国两党总统领导下管理全球事务的规则下注。
“For allies and adversaries alike, the election of Donald Trump represents the likely abandonment of a decades-old U.S. commitment to uphold the global order,” said Ivo Daalder, a former United States ambassador to NATO who is now president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.
“不管是对盟友还是对手而言，唐纳德·特朗普当选总统都意味着，美国延续数十年的维持全球秩序的承诺可能会中止，”之前担任美国驻北约(NATO)大使、现为芝加哥全球事务委员会(Chicago Council on Global Affairs)主席的伊沃·达尔德(Ivo Daalder)说。
For some, there was initially a promising forecast. American and foreign stock markets climbed in what some analysts called “the Trump bump.” The Dow Jones Industrial Average has broken several records since the election, and last week topped 19,000 for the first time amid expectations of more business-friendly regulatory policies. Investment banks like Goldman Sachs have fared particularly well.
对有些机构而言，一开始的预期颇为光明。美国和海外股市因所谓的“特朗普冲击”(Trump bump)而上涨。在对商业更友好的调控预期下，道琼斯工业平均指数(Dow Jones Industrial Average)自大选结束后突破了多项记录，并于上周首次达到19000点的峰值。高盛(Goldman Sachs)等投资银行的股价表现得尤其好。
European firms have seen stock prices rise, too. Deutsche Bank, whose shares shot up as high as 17 percent after the election, has reasons for optimism beyond its longtime ties to Mr. Trump’s businesses. With the Justice Department seeking a $14 billion settlement from the bank for its handling of mortgage-backed securities in the 2008 financial crisis, some in Germany hope a new administration will ease up on business.
欧洲公司的股价也出现上涨。德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)的股价在大选结束后激增了17%，除了与特朗普的企业长久的联系之外，它还有其他乐观的理由。美国司法部(Justice Department)就德意志银行在2008年金融危机中经营抵押贷款证券而与之展开谈判，提出了140亿美元的罚款，一些德国人期待新一届政府会放松商业方面的管控。
Another company that has seen its share value increase since the election is Magal Security Systems, an Israeli firm that helped develop high-tech security barriers around Gaza and the West Bank. With Mr. Trump’s promise to build a wall along the border with Mexico, investors expect that firms like Magal could get some of the business. Magal’s shares rose as high as 24 percent above their pre-election level, with trading volume as much as 150 times higher.
另一家在大选后股价大涨的公司是以色列的马加尔安全系统(Magal Security Systems)，该公司帮助研发了用在加沙和约旦河西岸的高科技安全栅栏。因为特朗普此前承诺在墨西哥建造边境墙，投资者期待马加尔这样的公司能拿到其中一部分生意。相比于大选之前，马加尔的股价上涨了24%，成交量也增加了150倍。
For the same reason, Mexico has taken an economic hit since the election. Besides the wall, Mr. Trump has vowed to withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement. Mexico’s peso has fallen sharply and its central bank last week slashed its growth projection for next year, citing “the electoral process in the United States.”
出于同样的原因，墨西哥经济自大选后遭到冲击。除了边境墙，特朗普还发誓退出北美自由贸易协定(North American Free Trade Agreement)。墨西哥比索大跌，该国中央银行上周大幅调低了明年的增长预测，并指是受“美国选举进程”影响。
Other economies have reacted with trepidation. In India, the rupee last week sank to an all-time low. Multiple factors were cited, but among them were fears that Mr. Trump’s policies may drive up inflation and interest rates.
其他经济体也因不安而做出反应。在印度，卢比上周跌至历史最低点。原因被认为有很多种，但其中包括对特朗普政策加重通胀和推高利率的担忧。
Some countries are trying to figure out how to respond in other ways. Leaders of NATO allies are looking at increasing military spending in response to Mr. Trump’s insistence that they pay a greater share of their defense. Lithuania last week chose a new prime minister who renewed the nation’s promise to raise security spending.
有些国家在试图搞清楚如何在其他方面进行应对。北约盟国的领导人正在考虑增加军事开支，以应对特朗普坚持让它们为自己国家的国防支付更大比例资金的要求。立陶宛上周选出一位总理，后者重申了增加安全开支的承诺。
In the Philippines, where President Rodrigo Duterte has feuded with President Obama, the government has tried to gain favor in Mr. Trump’s Washington. Mr. Duterte named as his new trade envoy to the United States Jose E.B. Antonio, a real estate tycoon who is helping build Trump Tower Manila. After Britain rebuffed Mr. Trump’s suggestion to name Nigel Farage, a leader of the Brexit campaign to leave the European Union, as ambassador to the United States, the Times of London reported that Mr. Farage may move to America anyway.
菲律宾总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)与奥巴马总统有积怨，该国政府试图在特朗普领导的华盛顿赢得青睐。杜特地派往美国的新贸易使者是地产大亨何塞·E·B· 安东尼奥(Jose E.B. Antonio)，后者正在协助建造马尼拉的特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)。在英国断然拒绝了特朗普提出的任命脱欧运动领袖奈吉尔·法拉奇(Nigel Farage)为英国驻美国大使的提议后，伦敦《泰晤士报》(The Times)报道，法拉奇可能会移居美国。
In many places, there is still much head scratching over Mr. Trump. The mass-circulation Bild Zeitung in Germany secured exclusive rights to translating into German the whole interview Mr. Trump gave to The New York Times. Bungeishunju, the Japanese publisher of “Trump Revealed,” by the Washington Post journalists Michael Kranish and Marc Fisher, reprinted an additional 10,000 copies.
在许多地方，仍有很多人捉摸不透特朗普。德国发行量颇大的《图片报》(Bild Zeitung)获得了独家版权，将特朗普接受《纽约时报》采访的文字完整地翻译成了德文。日本出版商《文艺春秋》(Bungeishunju)之前出版了《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)记者迈克尔·克拉尼什(Michael Kranish)和马克·费希尔(Marc Fisher)撰写的《真实的特朗普》(Trump Revealed)，现在则将该书重印了一万本。
In China, initial optimism about Mr. Trump is giving way to skepticism. “We should stop imagining what benefits Trump’s election could bring to China,” Zhu Chenghu, a retired major general, said at a seminar at the China Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing on Friday. “He will return to the traditional policies that rely on the role of the U.S. dollar and seek expansion overseas.”
在中国，有关特朗普最初的乐观情绪逐渐让位给怀疑主义。“我们不要再想川普当选能给我们带来什么好处了，”退役上将朱成虎周五在于北京的中国社会科学院举行的一场研讨会上讲道。“他就是要回归到美国传统，就是要靠美元的地位还有海外扩张。”
Nowhere has the Trump Effect been more visible than in Jerusalem, where the political right has openly rejoiced at the election. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has had a prickly relationship with Mr. Obama, has made clear to associates that he is overjoyed at Mr. Trump’s ascension.
特朗普效应在任何地方都不比在耶路撒冷那么明显。在那里，政治右翼势力丝毫不掩饰对这个选举结果的欣喜。与奥巴马总统关系不佳的以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)向他的副手明确表示，他为特朗普当选感到万分高兴。
Members of Mr. Netanyahu’s coalition expect Mr. Trump to abandon the practice of Mr. Obama and presidents of both parties who tried to restrain Israel from building housing in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. Shortly after the election, a Trump adviser said settlements were not an obstacle to peace, appearing to have adopted the argument Mr. Netanyahu makes.
内塔尼亚胡联盟的成员期待特朗普会放弃奥巴马及以往两党总统的做法，即竭力阻止以色列在约旦河西岸和东耶路撒冷建造定居点。大选结束后不久，特朗普的一名顾问便表示，定居点不是和平的阻碍，似乎已经采纳了内塔尼亚胡的主张。
“The next few weeks present a unique window of opportunity for Israel,” Naftali Bennett, who leads a pro-settler party in Mr. Netanyahu’s cabinet, told a conference sponsored by The Jerusalem Post last week. After years of American pressure, he added, “It’s ours to decide.”
上周在《耶路撒冷邮报》(The Jerusalem Post)主办的一次会议上，在纳塔尼亚胡的内阁里领导一个支持定居者党派的纳夫塔利·贝内特(Naftali Bennett)说，“接下来的几周给以色列打开了一扇独一无二的机会之窗”。他还表示，在承受多年来自美国的压力之后，“是时候由我们自己来决定了。”
Betty Herschman, the director of international relations for Ir Amim, a group that opposes settlement construction, said it was too early to know what Mr. Trump’s policy would actually be. But she said one thing was clear: “The Israeli right is already celebrating.”
反对修建定居点的组织“共享之城”(Ir Amim)的国际关系总监贝蒂·赫施曼(Betty Herschman)认为，目前来谈论特朗普的政策究竟会是什么样，还为时过早。但她也表示，有一件事是明确的：“以色列右翼势力已经开始庆祝。”