When she meets people off campus, Junko Tsuchiyagaito, 23, does not usually let on that she studies chemistry at the graduate level. She does not deliberately withhold the information, but she does not volunteer it, either.
每当23岁的土屋垣内绚子(Junko Tsuchiyagaito)在校外结识新朋友时，通常都会隐瞒自己是化学专业研究生的身份。她不是故意要遮遮掩掩，但也不会主动跟人去说。
She said that Japanese women who studied the humanities were seen as being more polished and attractive, especially at Aoyama Gakuin University, which is known for its fashionable student body. “But the image of women in science is that of someone whose hair is disheveled and who does not care about beauty. Men think you are not cute.”
她说，学习文科的日本女性在人们看来更优雅更具吸引力，尤其是在以学生形象时尚而闻名的青山学院大学(Aoyama Gakuin University)。“但是一提到理科女生，人们立刻就会联想到蓬头垢面不修边幅的形象。让男人觉得一点都不可爱。”
The widely shared perception that studying science could be the kiss of death for a young Japanese woman’s romantic life is one of several causes behind the low ratio of female students in science and engineering departments.
大众普遍的看法是，攻读理工科可能会扼杀日本年轻女性的浪漫生活，这也是导致日本女性在理科学生中所占比例偏低的原因之一。
According to the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, women accounted for 14 percent of the science and engineering students at Japanese universities, even though they represented 43 percent of college students over all, excluding medical and agricultural schools. In the humanities, they make up 66 percent.
根据日本文部科学省(Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology)的统计数据，日本大学理工类学生中女生比例仅为14%，尽管女生占日本高校（除去医学和农业院校）学生总数的43%。在人文类学科中，女生比例却占到66%。
Voices are now growing within both government and academia to rectify the imbalance.
如今政府和学术界对于纠正这种比例失衡问题的呼声越来越大。
“With the population shrinking, we need to tap into women in order to generate capable engineers in the future,” said Toshio Maruyama, executive vice president for education and international affairs at the Tokyo Institute of Technology, or TiTech, one of the leading science schools in Japan. “That is our common perception.”
“随着日本人口减少，未来我们需要让更多女性加入到能干的工程师队伍中去，”日本一流理工大学之一、东京工业大学（Tokyo Institute of Technology，简称TiTech）主管教育与国际事务的执行副校长丸山俊夫(Toshio Maruyama)说，“这已经成为共识。”
TiTech and other universities are pushing to increase female enrollment by attracting high school girls and their parents with science-themed fairs, workshops, campus tours and lab visits. Some send young women currently enrolled in science and technology courses across the country as ambassadors.
东京工业大学和其他的日本大学正在努力提高理工科女生的入学率。他们通过举办以科学为主题的展览会、研讨会、校内游览以及参观实验室等活动来吸引高中女生和她们的家长。有些学校还让目前在读的理工科女生担任全国巡游大使。
The topic of women entering these fields has suddenly become fashionable. They even have a nickname: “Rikejo,” roughly meaning “science women.” Publishers print magazines for young women interested in science, and there is even a novel about a “mathematics girl.”
关于女性进入理工科领域的话题突然成了时尚。她们还获得了一个雅号“Rikejo”，大致是“科学女性”的意思。出版商们为有志于科研的年轻女性发行了杂志，甚至还出版了一本关于“数学少女”的小说。
Masao Togami, editor of Rikejo magazine, a free publication with 17,000 subscribers, said he wanted to give young women encouragement, career tips and a vision for the future. “Universities have been strengthening efforts to recruit more female students,” Mr. Togami said. “That’s clearly evident just in the last few years.”
《Rikejo》是一份免费杂志，目前有1.7万名订户，主编户上正雄(Masao Togami)说，他想给年轻女性给予鼓励、提供职场小贴士，同时为她们描绘未来的景象。“各大高校已经加倍努力招收更多的女生，”户上先生说，“这种情况在近几年非常明显。”
“Rikejo fairs” aimed at high school girls have become popular. When TiTech announced campus and lab tours online last year, the slot for about 30 students “was gone in one minute,” said a university official. “We wish we could let in more.针对高中女生举办的“Rikejo展览”已经蔚然流行。当东京工业大学去年在网站上宣布开通校内及实验室参观项目之后，预留的30个名额“一分钟之内就被抢光了”，该校的一位负责人说，“我们希望可以让更多的学生进来参观。”
The tide turned around 2008, when the government began subsidized programs to support scientific research conducted by female scientists and increased funding to help universities employ more of them, said Ginko Kawano, associate professor of social education at Yamagata University.
山形大学(Yamagata University)社会教育学副教授河野银子(Ginko Kawano)说，2008年左右，潮流发生了改变，日本政府开始资助由女性科学家负责的科研项目，并为各大高校聘用更多的女性科学家增加资金支持。 The government is especially concerned that only 13 percent of Japanese scholars and researchers are women, which is a lower proportion than in Europe, the United States and South Korea. In the science fields in Japan, that percentage falls to almost half of that figure; it is only about 2 percent in engineering.
日本政府尤其在意这个问题：日本的学者和科研人员中，女性只占13%，这一比例低于欧洲、美国以及韩国。在日本科学界，女性所占比例只占上述比例的一半，在机械工程领域更是仅占约2%。
Many university science departments, particularly those in the countryside, are trying to recruit more young women, some even frantically. “Many universities cannot fill their capacity because youth population is declining,” Ms. Kawano said. “So they are turning to the population segment that was previously not thought to be their customers: women.”
许多大学的理工科院系，特别是一些郊区的大学，正在努力招收更多的年轻女生，有些高校表现几近狂热。“随着年轻人口的下降，很多大学都为生源发愁，”河野女士说，“因此它们开始转向之前并不关注的生源群体：女生。”
Female students, some professors say, perform better academically and also have an easier time finding jobs after graduation.
一些教授说，女生学习成绩更好，毕业后也更容易找到工作。
Miki Hasegawa, a chemistry professor at Aoyama Gakuin University’s campus in Sagamihara, a city near Tokyo, said men might have solid academic records in grades and test scores, “but the ones with sprouting talents and abilities often are women.”
青山学院大学的相模原校区位于神奈川县相模原市，紧邻东京。该校区的化学教授長谷川明子(Miki Hasegawa)说，男生可能有扎实的学术成果和考试成绩，“但是女生往往在萌生科学设想方面更有天分和才能。”
“In our field, a little bit of playfulness and risk taking is necessary to succeed. In that sense, women are more flexible and daring.”
“在我们的学科领域，玩闹和冒险精神是成功的必备元素。从这个层面上来说，女性往往更灵活、更大胆。”
But the notion that science and engineering are not for women, and that studying these fields could wreak havoc on their love lives, runs deep.
但是人们根深蒂固的观念是，理工科并不适合女性，钻研这些专业可能会破坏她们的感情生活。
When Naoto Ohtake, now an engineering professor at TiTech, began studying there in 1982, “There were zero females, and it had been historically zero throughout its 100-year history,” he said. “The notion was that touching machines wasn’t for ladies.” Today, about 6 percent of TiTech’s mechanical engineering students are women.
大竹尚登(Naoto Ohtake)现在是日本东京工业大学的工程学教授。当他于1982年进入东京工业大学学习时，“学校里一个女生也没有，而且在大学的百年校史里一直延续着没有女生的记录，”他说，“当时大家都觉得，摸机器这种活不该由女士来做。”现在，东工大的机械工程专业大概有6%的学生是女性。
Mr. Togami of Rikejo magazine said that some saw these women as being too intellectually intimidating for Japanese men. “Scientific women are thought to be smart, logical and cannot be easily fooled,” he said.
《Rikejo》杂志的户上先生说，对于一些日本男人来说，理工科女性理智得有点瘆人。“学理工科的女性一般更聪明，逻辑思维更严谨，不会轻易上当，”他说。
“Men don’t like it when women defeat their arguments in a logical way,” said Ai Takaoka, 23, who studies ecological science at Tokyo Metropolitan University. A fellow science major, Naoko Kono, 21, noted that Japanese men wanted girlfriends who followed their lead. “They like ladies who have a soft character and are agreeable,” she said.
在首都大学东京(Tokyo Metropolitan University)就读生态学专业的高冈亚衣(Ai Takaoka)今年23岁，她说：“当女人用理性思维击败男人的论点时，男人会很郁闷。”同样在该校读理工专业的21岁女生河野直子(Naoko Kono)指出，日本男人希望他们的女朋友服从他们。“他们喜欢温柔娴淑的女性，”她说。
Female science majors often struggle with their identity. “People often say to me that I am like a man,” Ms. Takaoka said. “But we are trained this way, to be logical and to find truths.”
学习理工科的女生往往纠结于自己的身份。“经常有人对我说我不像一个女人，”高冈女士说。“但是我们在学习时，就习惯了用逻辑思维思考问题并找寻真理。”
Mayuko Fukushima, 22, a chemistry graduate student at Aoyama Gakuin University, said that after adjusting to a lab environment where men and women go about their research in the same way, she felt conflicted about how to present herself outside the classroom.
今年22岁的福岛麻由子(Mayuko Fukushima)是青山学院大学的化学专业研究生。她说，当她和男生一样在实验室做实验并且适应了这样的环境后，她都不知道如何在课堂外展示自己了。
“When humanities girls visit the lab, I feel annoyed, but at the same time, I feel inferior” for not being seen as being as feminine, she said.
“学文科的女生来参观实验室时，我感到恼火，但是同时我又感到自卑”，因为在她们眼里我没有一点女生的样子，她说。
When she is out on the weekends, she enjoys what are seen as typical pursuits for a young woman. “I find it therapeutic when I am choosing girly clothes at stores and sending e-mails with cute characters.”
周末外出时，她喜欢女孩子的那些专属物品。“当我在商店挑选那些甜美系的衣服，发电子邮件时附上可爱的表情符号时，我感到自己又是女生了，那是一种疗伤般的感觉。”
In the Japanese education system, girls in primary and middle school face little discrimination, experts said.
专家们说，在日本的教育系统中，女孩子们在小学和初中不会受到什么歧视。
“Up to that level, students’ math scores are known to be about the same between boys and girls,” said Masanobu Kaneko, dean of the Kyushu University mathematics department.
“在小学和初中，男生和女生的数学成绩是差不多的，”九州大学(Kyushu University)数学系主任金子昌信(Masanobu Kaneko)说。
Social considerations get into the way when they enter high school. There, career counselors often shepherd female students away from science tracks “out of motherly concern,” Ms. Kawano added.
当她们进入高中后，社会上的一些看法开始影响她们。金子女士补充说，在高中，职业规划教师通常出于“母性关怀”引导女生远离理科。
Parents might also guide their daughters away from science.
父母可能也会让他们的女儿远离理科。
Kumiko Kushiyama, a professor of industrial art and systems design at Tokyo Metropolitan University, said that Japanese mothers still had much control over their daughters, with notions of what young women should or should not do.
首都大学东京工业艺术及系统设计学教授串山久美子(Kumiko Kushiyama)说，在日本，母亲们依旧严格管束自己的女儿，在母亲们看来，有些事该女孩子来做，有些事不该她们做。
That said, modern Japanese mothers — and society in general — are becoming more open-minded.
尽管如此，现代的日本母亲——乃至整个日本社会，思想越来越开明了。
“Our female students are very energetic and doing great,” she said. “And they find good jobs.”
“我们的女学生都非常有活力，成绩也很好，”串山教授说，“她们也找到了不错的工作。”