WASHINGTON — The comparison was inflammatory, to say the least. Former Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts equated Donald Trump’s immigration plan with Kristallnacht, the night of horror in 1938 when rampaging Nazis smashed Jewish homes and businesses in Germany and killed scores of Jews.
华盛顿——这种类比最起码颇具煽动性。威廉·F·维尔德(William F. Weld)把唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的移民计划比作1938年的水晶之夜(Kristallnacht)。在那个恐怖的夜里，残暴的纳粹党人捣毁了犹太人的住宅和店铺，还杀死了不少犹太人。
But if it was a provocative analogy, it was not a lonely one. Trump’s campaign has engendered impassioned debate about the nature of his appeal and warnings from critics on the left and the right about the potential rise of fascism in the United States. More strident opponents have likened Trump to Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini.
但这如果是一个带有煽动性的类比，那它也不是唯一一个。特朗普的竞选活动已经引发了与其吸引力本质有关的热烈讨论，并招来了左右两翼批评人士关于法西斯主义有可能在美国兴起的警告。言辞更为尖锐的对手已经把特朗普和阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)以及贝尼托·墨索里尼(Benito Mussolini)联系了起来。
To supporters, such comparisons are deeply unfair smear tactics used to tar conservatives and scare voters. For a bipartisan establishment whose foundation has been shaken by Trump’s ascendance, these backers say, it is easier to delegitimize his support than to acknowledge widespread popular anger at the failure of both parties to confront the nation’s challenges.
特朗普的支持者认为，上述类比是极不公正的污蔑，是旨在抹黑保守派，吓跑选民的手段。这些支持者称，对于因为特朗普的崛起而根基遭到动摇的两党权势集团来说，更容易的做法是让他得到的支持失去合法性，而不是承认，人们普遍对两党难以应付这个国家所面对的种种挑战感到愤怒。
But the discussion comes as questions are surfacing around the globe about a revival of fascism, generally defined as a governmental system that asserts complete power and emphasizes aggressive nationalism and often racism. In places like Russia and Turkey, leaders like Vladimir Putin of Russia and Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey employ strongman tactics. In Austria, a nationalist candidate came within three-tenths of a percentage point of becoming the first far-right head of state elected in Europe since World War II.
但在相关讨论展开之际，关于全球范围内正出现法西斯主义复兴的质疑逐渐浮出水面。广义而言，法西斯主义是指主张拥有绝对权力，极力宣扬带有侵略性的民族主义，乃至种族主义的政体。在俄罗斯和土耳其，弗拉基米尔·普京 (Vladimir Putin)和雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)之类的领导人实施的是强人政治。在奥地利，一个民族主义候选人差一点成为二战以来欧洲首个由选举产生的具有极右派背景的国家领导人；他距离胜利几乎只有0.3个百分点。
In Hungary, an authoritarian government has clamped down on the news media and erected razor wire fences to keep out migrants. There are worries that Poland could follow suit. Traditional parties in France, Germany, Greece and elsewhere have been challenged by nationalist movements amid an economic crisis and waves of migrants. In Israel, fascism analogies by a former prime minister and a top general have again inflamed the long-running debate about the occupation of Palestinian territories.
在匈牙利，一个威权政府已经加强了对媒体的管制，并竖起了把移民拒于国门之外的铁丝网围栏。有人担心波兰也会这么做。在法国、德国、希腊等地，传统政党除了要面对经济危机和移民潮，还要面对来自民族主义运动的挑战。在以色列，一位前总理和一位高级将领做出的带有法西斯色彩的比喻，已经让关于占领巴勒斯坦领土的长期讨论再度变得激烈起来。
“The crash of 2008 showed how globalization creates losers as well as winners,” said Mark Leonard, the director of the European Council on Foreign Relations. “In many countries, middle-class wages are stagnant and politics has become a battle over a shrinking pie. Populists have replaced contests between left and right with a struggle between cosmopolitan elites and angry nativists.”
“2008年的经济崩盘显示出全球化既能制造赢家也能制造输家，”欧洲对外关系委员会(European Council on Foreign Relations)主席马克·莱昂纳德(Mark Leonard)说。“在许多国家里，中产阶层的工资水平停滞不前，政治已经变成对日益缩小的蛋糕的争夺。民粹主义者已经让左派和右派之争变成了国际化精英和愤怒的本土主义者之间的斗争。”
That dislocation may not lead to a repeat of Europe in the 1930s, but it has fueled a debate about global political trends. There is a tendency at times to try to fit current movements into understandable constructs — some refer to terrorist groups in the Middle East as Islamofascists — but scholars say there is a spectrum that includes right-wing nationalism, illiberal democracy and populist autocracy.
这种混乱可能不会导致1930年代的欧洲往事重新上演，但它已激起关于全球政治趋势的讨论。人们有时会竭力把当前的各种运动套入某些可以被理解的概念——譬如有人会管中东的恐怖组织叫“伊斯兰派法西斯主义者”(Islamofascists)——但学者们却给出了一个包括右派民族主义、“非自由之民主”(illiberal democracy)、民粹式独裁在内的图谱。
“On a world level, the situation that affects many countries is economic stagnation and the arrival of immigrants,” said Robert Paxton, a professor emeritus at Columbia University and one of the most prominent scholars of fascism. “That’s a one-two punch that democratic governments are having enormous trouble in meeting.”
“在世界范围内，许多国家都受到经济停滞和移民涌入的影响，”法西斯主义研究领域知名学者、哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)名誉教授罗伯特·帕克斯顿(Robert Paxton)说。“这真是祸不单行，民主国家的政府现在有大麻烦了。”
Americans are used to the idea that other countries may be vulnerable to such movements, but while figures like Father Charles Coughlin, the demagogic radio broadcaster, enjoyed wide followings in the 1930s, neither major party has ever nominated anyone quite like Trump.
美国人习惯了这种说法，即其他国家可能很容易受到前述思潮的影响。不过，虽然在1930年代通过广播煽动人心的查尔斯·科林神父(Father Charles Coughlin)拥有大批拥趸，但还没有哪个主流政党提名过特朗普这样的总统候选人。
“This could be one of those moments that’s quite dangerous, and we’ll look back and wonder why we treated it as ho-hum at a time when we could have stopped it,” said Robert Kagan, a scholar at the Brookings Institution known for hawkish internationalism.
“这可能会是一个相当危险的时刻，将来回头看时，我们肯定想要弄清，我们为什么会在本可以阻止它到来的时候却掉以轻心，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)奉行鹰派国际主义的学者罗伯特·卡根(Robert Kagan)说。
Kagan sounded the alarm this month with a Washington Post op-ed article, “This Is How Fascism Comes to America,” that gained wide attention. “I’ve gotten a lot of positive feedback from conservative Republicans,” he said. “There are a lot of people who agree with this.”
上述警告是卡根在《法西斯主义就这样来到美国》(This Is How Fascism Comes to America)一文中发出的。他在《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)上发表的这篇观点文章获得了广泛关注。“我已经收到了来自保守派共和党人的大量正面反馈，”他说。“很多人都同意这一点。”
Trump has provided plenty of ammunition for critics. He was slow to denounce the white supremacist David Duke and talked approvingly of beating up protesters. He has praised Putin and promised to be friends. He would not condemn supporters who launched anti-Semitic blasts at journalists. At one point, Trump retweeted a Mussolini quote: “It is better to live one day as a lion than 100 years as a sheep.”
特朗普为批评人士提供了充足的弹药。他曾迟迟不对白人至上主义者大卫·杜克(David Duke)加以谴责，还曾以赞同的语气谈及殴打示威者之举。他对普京赞赏有加，愿与后者成为朋友。他不愿指责以反犹太言论攻击新闻记者的支持者。有一次，特朗普还在推特上转发了墨索里尼的一句名言：“宁当狮子活一天，也不愿百年为羊。”
Asked by Chuck Todd on the NBC program “Meet the Press” about the retweet, Trump brushed off the quote’s origin. “I know who said it,” he said. “But what difference does it make whether it’s Mussolini or somebody else?”
在NBC的《与媒体见面》(Meet the Press)节目上，当被查克·托德(Chuck Todd)问及此事时，特朗普显得并不在意这句话的来源。“我知道是谁说的，”他说。“但不论是墨索里尼还是其他什么人说的，有什么区别呢？”
“Do you want to be associated with a fascist?” Todd asked.
“你想要和一个法西斯主义者联系在一起吗？”托德问。
“No,” Trump answered, “I want to be associated with interesting quotes.” He added: “And certainly, hey, it got your attention, didn’t it?”
“不，我想要和有趣的名言联系在一起。”他还说：“嘿，而且它显然得到了你的关注，不是吗？”
Trump’s allies dismiss the criticism as politically motivated and historically suspect. The former Republican House speaker Newt Gingrich, who has said he would consider being Trump’s running mate, said in an interview that he was “deeply offended” by what he called “utterly ignorant” comparisons.
特朗普的盟友驳斥说，所有这些批评都带有政治动机，从历史角度看是站不住脚的。共和党的众议院前议长纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)接受采访时说，那些“极度无知的”类比让他“火冒三丈”。金里奇已经表示，会考虑当特朗普的竞选搭档。
“Trump does not have a political structure in the sense that the fascists did,” said Gingrich, a onetime college professor who earned his doctorate in modern European history. “He doesn’t have the sort of ideology that they did. He has nobody who resembles the brownshirts. This is all just garbage.”
“特朗普手里没有法西斯主义者那样的政治架构，”拥有欧洲现代史博士学位、曾在大学里当过教授的金里奇说。“他不具有他们那种意识形态。他手下也没有纳粹党冲锋队那样的组织。所有这一切都是胡扯。”
Beyond Hitler and Mussolini, fascism can be hard to define. Since World War II, only fringe figures have overtly identified themselves that way. In modern political discourse, the word is used as an epithet. And even Hitler and Mussolini were elastic in their political philosophies as they came to power; Mussolini started out as a leftist.
除了希特勒和墨索里尼，我们很难说明法西斯主义是什么。“二战”以来，只有一些边缘人物曾公开自称信仰法西斯主义。在现代政治话语中，它只是一个评价某人的修饰语。而且就连希特勒和墨索里尼在上台前，其政治哲学也颇为灵活；墨索里尼起初是左派。
Paxton, the fascism scholar, said he saw similarities and differences in Trump. His message about an America in decline and his us-against-them pronouncements about immigrants and outsiders echo Europe in the 1930s, Paxton said. On the other hand, he said, Trump has hardly created uniformed, violent youth groups. Moreover, fascists believe in strong state control, not get-government-off-your-back individualism and deregulation.
法西斯主义研究者帕克斯顿说，自己在特朗普身上既能看与法西斯主义者的相似之处，也能看到不同点。特朗普所传达的关于美国日渐衰落的信息，以及他那些针对移民和外来者的带有你死我活意味的主张，会让人联想起1930年代的欧洲，帕克斯顿说。另一方面，他说，特朗普并没有创建身穿制服的暴力青年团体。此外，法西斯主义者认为国家必须具有强大的控制力，而非青睐让政府靠边站的个人主义和放松管制之举。
The debate about terminology may ignore the seriousness of the conditions that gave rise to Trump and his European counterparts. The New York real estate developer has tapped into a deep discontent in a country where many feel left behind while Wall Street banks get bailouts, newcomers take jobs, terrorists threaten innocents and China rises economically at America’s expense.
这一术语之争可能忽略了特朗普及其欧洲同道赖以崛起的局势是多么严峻。纽约的这位房地产开发商利用了存在于这个国家中的深深的不满——当华尔街银行获得救助，新移民得到工作，恐怖分子对无辜者造成威胁，中国经济以美国为垫脚石日益崛起的时候，许多人都觉得自己被抛到了一边。