WASHINGTON — In a time of several threatening international crises, an explosive exchange came out of the Trump White House on Monday that had nothing to do with a foreign adversary. The target was a former wife.
华盛顿——在面临数个危险的国际危机之际，特朗普领导的白宫周一发起了一场激烈交锋，不过它与外国对手无关。它的目标是总统的一位前妻。
Melania Trump’s East Wing lashed out at President Trump’s first wife, Ivana, for jokingly referring to herself as first lady.
梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)入主的东厅因为特朗普总统的第一任妻子伊万娜(Ivana)开玩笑地自称第一夫人而火力大开。
Ivana Trump — the mother to Mr. Trump’s oldest three children and the wife whose divorce from Mr. Trump elevated him to a constant tabloid fixture — was promoting her new memoir during an interview that aired on “Good Morning America” when she said she had a “direct number” to the White House and called the president every two weeks.
伊万娜·特朗普是特朗普三个年纪最大的孩子的母亲，两人的离婚让特朗普成了小报的持续性谈资。在《早安美国》(Good Morning America)播出的一段采访中，正在宣传新回忆录的伊万娜说自己有联系白宫的“直线号码”，并且每两周给总统打一次电话。
“I’m basically first Trump wife,” the Czech-born Mrs. Trump said with a laugh. “I’m first lady, O.K.”
“从根本上来说我是特朗普的第一任妻子，”这位出生于捷克的特朗普夫人笑着说。“我是第一夫人，好吧。”
This joke apparently struck a nerve with the actual first lady.
这个笑话似乎触动了真正的第一夫人的神经。
Stephanie Grisham, the third Mrs. Trump’s communications director, unleashed a scorching statement against the first lady’s marital predecessor.
第三任特朗普夫人的通讯联络主管史蒂芬妮·格里沙姆(Stephanie Grisham)发布了一份措辞严厉的声明，驳斥第一夫人在婚姻关系上的前任。
“Mrs. Trump has made the White House a home for Barron and the President. She loves living in Washington, D.C., and is honored by her role as first lady of the United States,” Ms. Grisham said in an email. “She plans to use her title and role to help children, not sell books.”
“特朗普夫人把白宫变成了巴伦(Barron)和总统的家。她喜欢在华盛顿特区生活，并为自己美国第一夫人的角色感到荣幸，”格里沙姆在一封电子邮件中写道。“她计划利用自己的头衔和角色帮助儿童，而不是卖书。”
Ms. Grisham added a tabloidlike coup de grâce: “There is clearly no substance to this statement from an ex, this is unfortunately only attention-seeking and self-serving noise.”
格里沙姆接着又给了小报风格的致命一击：“前任发表的这种言论显然没有实质意义，可惜只是哗众取宠、谋私利的噪音。”
Such media fisticuffs were, until Monday, an unusual move for Melania Trump’s placid, and somewhat sparsely populated, East Wing. But they are second nature to certain members of the Trump family, purveyors of high-profile marital drama since 1992, the year Mr. Trump and Ivana Trump, a former model, ended their marriage in what she called “brutal” divorce negotiations. Mr. Trump’s second wife, Marla Maples, ensured another dizzying round of media attention. (The first Mrs. Trump said in the interview that she does not refer to Ms. Maples by name: She is instead known as “The Showgirl.”)
在周一之前，这种媒体争夺战对梅拉尼娅·特朗普领导的平静并且有些门可罗雀的东厅来说，仍是不寻常的举动。但对特朗普家族的某些成员来说，媒体战是他们的老习惯了。自从1992年特朗普与前模特伊万娜·特朗普在她所说的“不留情面”的离婚谈判中结束婚姻后，这些争夺战便充当着高调的婚姻大戏的散播者角色。特朗普的第二任妻子玛拉·梅普尔斯(Marla Maples)为另一轮令人头晕目眩的媒体关注提供了保障（第一任特朗普夫人在那个采访中说，她从不以名字称呼梅普尔斯，而是以“那个演戏的”代指）。
Melania Trump, a former model born in Slovenia, has been somewhat of a departure because she does not court attention and tends to choose her words carefully. She is also becoming a more visible first lady. In the past few weeks, Mrs. Trump has ramped up her appearances and will travel on Tuesday to Huntington, W.Va., to visit Lily’s Place, an infant recovery center that supports families dealing with addiction.
梅拉尼娅·特朗普出生于斯洛文尼亚，曾是一名模特。她在一定程度上是个例外，因为她不寻求关注，并且倾向于谨慎选择措辞。她同时也正在成为一位更加引人注目的第一夫人。过去几周，她增加了露面次数。此外，她还将于周二前往西弗吉尼亚州的亨廷顿，探访为各种上瘾问题家庭提供支持的婴幼儿康复中心莉莉公馆(Lily’s Place)。
In recent weeks, Mrs. Trump, who once emphasized that her platform will focus on combating cyberbullying, has shifted her focus to learning more about the opioid epidemic. More than two million Americans are estimated to have problems with the drugs, and Appalachia has some of the highest overdose rates in the country.
最近几周，曾经强调自己的平台将重点关注打击网络欺凌的特朗普夫人，转向了增加对阿片类药物泛滥情况的了解上。据估计，美国超过200万人有这类药物问题，阿巴拉契亚地区一些地方的用药过量情况是全美最严重的。
“She has stated many times that she wants to utilize her role as first lady to help as many children as she can, with the many issues and challenges they face as they are growing up,” Ms. Grisham said. “The opioid crisis is one of those issues, and is affecting children and their families nationwide.”
“她已多次表示希望利用自己第一夫人的角色，帮助尽可能多的儿童应对他们在成长过程中面临的诸多问题和挑战，”格里沙姆说。“阿片类药物危机便是其中一个，它正在影响全国范围内的儿童和他们的家庭。”
In August, Mr. Trump said that the opioid epidemic was a “national emergency,” but the White House has so far not made a formal declaration on the matter. When asked about the first lady’s plans for cyberbullying, Ms. Grisham said that Mrs. Trump’s focus “includes many different aspects of what children face today.”
8月，特朗普总统说阿片类药物泛滥是“全国性的紧急情况”，但白宫迄今尚未对这个问题正式表态。被问及第一夫人解决网络欺凌的计划时，格里沙姆说，特朗普夫人的关注重点“包括儿童如今所面临问题的很多不同方面”。
Ms. Grisham did not respond when asked why Ivana Trump’s interview warranted the East Wing’s response. Among other revelations, the first Mrs. Trump said that she uses her phone calls with the president to encourage discretion — “Sometimes I tell him just not to speak that much,” she said — and that she did not mind if her children engage in the sort of Twitter taunting their father enjoys.
在被问及东厅为何要回应伊万娜·特朗普的采访时，格里沙姆没有给出答复。第一任特朗普夫人的爆料还包括她自称利用给总统打电话的机会鼓励他谨言慎行——“有时候我告诉他不要说那么多就好了，”她说道——以及她并不介意自己的孩子做出他们的父亲喜欢的那种Twitter嘲讽。
“If they are losers,” Mrs. Trump said of potential Trump family Twitter targets, “they are losers, O.K.? And I don’t mind it.”
“如果他们是失败者，”特朗普夫人指的是可能会成为特朗普家族在Twitter上打击目标的人，“他们是失败者，懂吗？我不介意。”