The recent moon launch by China was to be a testament to the country’s technological prowess, as it joined Russia and the United States in the exclusive club of countries sending successful “soft landing” missions that allow them to explore the lunar surface.
中国最近发射的月球车本应是国家技术实力的证明，表示中国加入了成功实现在月球表面“软着陆”国家的专署俱乐部，以前这个俱乐部中只有俄罗斯和美国。
And everything seemed to be going right until recently, when the lunar rover, called the Yutu, or Jade Rabbit, malfunctioned, leaving its fate in doubt — and raising questions about the country’s abilities to fulfill its vast ambitions in space.
直到不久前，一切似乎都很顺利，然而月球车“玉兔”发生了故障，这给它的命运带来变数，也让人们对中国能否实现其雄心勃勃的太空计划产生疑问。
On Wednesday and Thursday, state news media issued ambiguous reports about the Jade Rabbit’s health, with the China News Service saying Wednesday that the rover “could not be restored to full function.” But that was followed Thursday with a report by Xinhua, the state news agency, saying that the Jade Rabbit had “come back to life,” and that its signal reception was back to normal — but that its fate was still uncertain.
周三、周四两天，国家媒体对“玉兔”健康状况的报道模棱两可。中国新闻社周三报道称，“玉兔”月球车“无法完全恢复功能。”但周四国家通讯社新华社报道称，“玉兔”月球车“成功自主唤醒”，其信号接收正常，但未来命运如何仍不能确定。
According to the website of Guangming Daily, a Chinese state-run newspaper, Pei Zhaoyu, a spokesman for China’s lunar program, said: “Jade Rabbit entered sleep in an abnormal state. Initially, we were worried that it wouldn’t be able to handle the extremely low temperatures of the lunar night, but it came around. At least it’s still alive, and so there’s the chance of saving it.”
国家媒体《光明日报》网站消息称，探月工程新闻发言人裴照宇说，“玉兔是以非正常状态进入睡眠的，我们原来担心它无法承受月夜极低温度，但它活过来了！它起码还活着，就有救过来的可能性。”
The moon mission carries important symbolic significance for China, and was seen by space experts as a precursor to more ambitious lunar operations by a country that also seeks to have a small space station aloft within a decade. When the rover landed on the moon in mid-December, engineers involved in the project were seen on television embracing and crying over the mission’s initial success.
此次探月任务对中国具有重要的象征性意义，一些太空专家认为这是为中国更加雄心勃勃的探月工程打前站，中国的太空计划还包括在未来十年内发射一个小型空间站。去年12月，月球车在月面着陆后，电视台转播了参与这一工程的工程师们为项目取得初步成功相拥而泣的画面。
But three weeks ago cryptic signals began emerging about its troubles, with state news media posting a supposed statement by the hobbled spacecraft in which it ruminated about its impending demise, saying, “Although I should’ve gone to bed this morning, my masters discovered something abnormal with my mechanical control system.” It added: “I’m aware that I might not survive this lunar night.”
但是三周前，有关月球车出问题的隐秘信号开始出现，后来国家的新闻媒体发了一个以出故障月球车的口吻写的帖子，吐露了其即将面临死亡的未来，帖子称，“本来我也应该今早开始睡觉，但入睡前，师父们发现我的机构控制出现异常，身体上有些部分不太听他们的话。” 帖子接着写道，“我知道，有可能熬不过这个月夜了。”
The posting unleashed a torrent of sympathy for the Jade Rabbit, so named after a mythical rabbit on the moon found in Chinese folklore. But those expressions on social media sites were tempered by concern that China may have overreached with its moon mission. One resident of Xi’an posted on 163.com, a Chinese Internet forum: “Spent all that money just to prove you threw a piece of junk up there,” adding “academics go home and farm, and engineers retake the college examination.”
这个帖子引起了人们对“玉兔”发出一片同情声，“玉兔”这个名字来自中国民间传说中住在月亮上的神话兔子。但社交媒体上表达的同情也参有一些认为中国可能因不自量力而导致这次探月失败的担忧。一名西安居民在中国互联网论坛163.com上发评论称，“花了这么多钱就是为了证明能把这个废物扔到那里去。”还说，“学者都该回家种地，工程师应该再考一次大学。”
And in a further indignity, the landing craft’s plight was mocked on American television by the actor Patrick Stewart in a skit on “The Daily Show,” where the host, Jon Stewart, noted the United States’ decades-old history of lunar expeditions.
更为有失尊严的是，这辆月球车的困境被演员帕特里克·斯图尔特(Patrick Stewart)在美国电视节目《每日秀》(The Daily Show)的一个小品中嘲讽了一番，该节目主持人乔恩·斯图尔特(Jon Stewart)指出，美国探月是几十年前的历史了。
Still, space experts say that with the mission, called the Chang’e-3, China has made great strides that position the country for more ambitious space exploration in the future. The mission began with the rocket’s launch from Earth on Dec. 1, and was only supposed to last three months, as the Jade Rabbit collected data and soil samples on the moon.
尽管如此，太空专家称，中国在这项名为“嫦娥三号”的探月任务中取得了巨大的进步，为其在未来进行更雄心勃勃的太空探索做了准备。这次探月任务以去年12月1日成功发射火箭开始，计划只是为期三个月，其间“玉兔”将在月球表面采集数据和土壤标本。
“The real objective of the Chang’e-3 mission — to develop the capability to soft-land on the moon — has been accomplished,” Paul D. Spudis, a scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, said in an email. “So one could consider that the mission has fulfilled its primary objective.”
位于休斯顿的月球与行星研究所(Lunar and Planetary Institute)科学家保罗·D·斯普迪斯(Paul D. Spudis)在一封电子邮件中表示，“嫦娥三号的实际目标是研发在月球软着陆的能力，这个目标已经实现了。因此可以认为该任务已经实现了其首要目标。”
In the meantime, social media sites continued to present the Jade Rabbit as a barely living creature who happened to be stuck on the moon. On Sina Weibo, a Chinese service for microblogs, one popular site for news about the Jade Rabbit showed it asking: “Hi, is anyone there?”
与此同时，社交媒体网站继续把“玉兔”以一个被困在月球上的奄奄一息的东西展现给人们。中文微博服务平台新浪微博的一个有关玉兔信息的热门账户显示它在打招：“Hi，有人在吗？”