WASHINGTON — When the sister of Kim Jong-un made her historic visit to the Winter Olympics in South Korea two weeks ago, saying nothing but commanding noisy press coverage, the South Korean news media quickly called her “North Korea’s Ivanka.”
华盛顿——当两周前，金正恩胞妹历史性地出席了韩国举行的冬奥会，她一言不发却获得大量新闻报道，韩国新闻媒体迅速将其称为“朝鲜的伊万卡”。
Now, President Trump is sending the real Ivanka.
如今，特朗普总统要派真正的伊万卡上场了。
The question is whether Ms. Trump, with her fashion industry glamour, can counter the news media narrative set by a mysterious North Korean woman, Kim Yo-jong, who is a director of her totalitarian government’s propaganda and agitation department.
问题在于，散发着时尚行业魅力的特朗普女士，是否能反击由那名神秘的朝鲜女子金与正(Kim Yo-jong)定下的新闻叙事？金与正是那个极权政府的宣传和煽动部门主管。
White House officials recoil at any parallel between the dictator’s sister and the president’s daughter. But the comparison is obvious, if invidious, given their family pedigrees.
白宫官员不赞同任何将独裁者的胞妹与总统女儿相提并论的说法。即使令人反感，但鉴于她们的家庭背景，两者间的比较关系是显而易见的。
And Ms. Trump may benefit by another comparison: to Vice President Mike Pence, who sat near Ms. Kim during the opening ceremony of the Olympics and seemed unable to strike the same chord as she did with South Koreans. He later missed out on a meeting with North Korean officials after they canceled at the last minute.
此外，特朗普女士可能会因另一种对比而受益：与副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)相比较，后者在开幕式时坐在金与正附近，并且似乎无法像她那样与韩国人产生共鸣。他后来错失了与朝鲜官员的会面——对方最后一刻决定取消。
Administration officials acknowledge that Ms. Trump, who will arrive in South Korea on Friday to watch the closing ceremony of the Games, could smooth some of the tensions that flared during the vice president’s visit, even if they insist that is not the purpose of her trip.
政府官员承认，周五抵达韩国观看冬奥会闭幕式的特朗普女士，可能会缓和一些在副总统访问期间引起的紧张关系，即便他们坚称这并非她此行的目的。
While Mr. Pence met with North Korean defectors and condemned Mr. Kim for human rights abuses, officials said Ms. Trump would keep her focus on reaffirming the bonds between the United States and South Korea and cheering on American athletes. “Their talent, drive, grit and spirit embodies American excellence,” she said in a statement on Wednesday.
彭斯访问期间与脱北者会面，并且谴责金正恩侵犯人权，官员们说特朗普女士将把重心放在重申美韩两国间的联系，并且为美国运动员加油上。“他们的才华、干劲、勇气及精神是美国优秀品质的体现，”她在周三的一则声明中说道。
On Friday evening, Ms. Trump, 36, is scheduled to have dinner with South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, who tried desperately to broker a meeting between Mr. Pence and the North Korean delegation. There are no plans for Ms. Trump to meet with anyone from North Korea during her three-day visit, though an official declined to rule out the possibility.
周五晚，36岁的特朗普女士将与韩国总统文在寅共进晚餐，后者曾急切地尝试为彭斯和朝鲜代表团安排会面。三天的访问中，特朗普女士没有与来自朝鲜的人士进行会面的计划，不过一名官员拒绝排除这种可能性。
Ms. Trump will travel with the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, and Allison Hooker, a National Security Council official who specializes in Korean affairs, among others. The council has briefed Ms. Trump about the political situation on the Korean Peninsula, according to officials.
特朗普女士的随行人员包括白宫新闻发言人萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)，以及专门处理朝鲜事务的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)官员艾莉森·胡克(Allison Hooker)。据有关官员说，该委员会已向特朗普女士简要介绍了朝鲜半岛的政治局势。
Administration officials said she was fully prepared to discuss Mr. Trump’s “maximum pressure” policy with Mr. Moon, the South Korean news media or with North Korean officials, should she run into any.
政府官员说她已经做好了充分的准备，与文在寅、韩国新闻媒体或与朝鲜官员（如果遇到的话）讨论特朗普的“最大压力”政策。
Simply by virtue of her age and background, Ms. Trump will project a more accessible image than Mr. Pence, 58. He arrived with a directive from Mr. Trump to blunt the propaganda campaign of North Korea, which has used the Olympics as a kind of olive branch to the South.
仅凭年龄及背景，特朗普女士将展现出一种比58岁的彭斯更具亲和力的形象。彭斯带着特朗普让其驳斥朝鲜宣传的指令来到韩国。朝鲜将奥运会作为一种向韩国伸出的橄榄枝。
While the president authorized Mr. Pence to meet with the North Koreans, he insisted that any meeting be held privately, away from cameras, and that Mr. Pence deliver the same harsh message in private that he delivered in public.
尽管总统授权彭斯与朝鲜人会面，他仍坚持任何会面都应当避开媒体、私下举行，并且还坚持彭斯私下里传达与他在公开场合所表达的同样强硬的信息。
Mr. Pence reinforced his hard-line image by remaining seated during the opening ceremony when the audience stood for the unified Korean Olympic team. He ignored Ms. Kim and another top North Korean official, Kim Yong-nam, who were seated behind him in Mr. Moon’s box.
朝韩奥运联队入场时，观众起立，而彭斯仍坐在座位上，彭斯的强硬形象更加强化。他无视了金与正及另一位朝鲜高层官员金永南(Kim Yong-nam)，两人当时就坐在他身后文在寅的包厢里。
American officials said they believed these gestures — on top of Mr. Pence’s threat of new sanctions against the North, which Mr. Pence delivered in Japan, on his way to South Korea — caused the North Koreans to rethink the meeting with the vice president.
美国官员表示，他们认为这些姿态——加之彭斯在日本前往韩国的途中还威胁要对朝鲜施以新制裁——导致朝鲜重新考虑了与副总统的会面。
Administration officials said they were pleased with Mr. Pence’s unyielding approach. Some noted that the South Koreans did not help the atmosphere by thrusting Mr. Pence into situations for which he was not prepared — like seating him so close to Ms. Kim at the opening ceremony.
政府官员们表示，他们对彭斯的坚定不移感到满意。有人指出，韩国人将彭斯置于他未做准备的一些处境之中，比如，在开幕式上，把他的位置安排得和金与正很近，这无助于缓解气氛。
Still, his reviews in South Korea were poor, and the canceled meeting was a particular disappointment to Mr. Moon, whose strategy of engaging North Korea is putting him increasingly at odds with the White House, and its maximum pressure campaign.
不过，韩国对他的评论还是很糟糕，取消的会面尤其令文在寅感到失望，他与朝鲜接触的策略使他与白宫，以及白宫对朝鲜施加最大压力的政策之间的分歧越来越大。
To the extent that North Korea and the United States are engaged in a contest for the affections of the South Korean president, some analysts felt Mr. Pence’s trip was a missed opportunity.
一些分析人士认为，在朝鲜和美国争夺韩国总统青睐的角逐中，彭斯的这次访问是一次错失的机会。
“I don’t think the Pence trip was a failure, but it reaffirmed how tough and inflexible the U.S. position is,” said Evan S. Medeiros, a former Asia adviser to President Barack Obama. “It’s nice if you can put a velvet glove over the iron fist.”
“我认为，彭斯的访问没有失败，但它再次证明，美国的立场很强硬，不灵活，”贝拉克·奥巴马总统的前亚洲顾问埃文·S·梅代罗斯(Evan S. Medeiros)说，“要是能给铁拳戴上天鹅绒手套就好了。”
While Mr. Medeiros played down the larger implications of Ms. Trump’s visit, he said she was likely to be a hit with the South Korean public. “I can see her resonating with South Koreans,” he said.
尽管梅代罗斯并不认为伊万卡的访问能产生更大的影响力，但他表示，她很可能会受到韩国公众的欢迎。“我能看出，她能让韩国人产生共鸣，”他说。
The decision to send Ms. Trump grew out of a conversation between Mr. Trump and Mr. Moon, officials said, in which the South Korean leader pleaded with the president to send high-level delegations to the opening and closing ceremonies of the Games in Pyeongchang.
官员们表示，派伊万卡参加闭幕式的决定源于特朗普与文在寅的一次通话，这位韩国领导人在通话中恳求美国总统派高级代表团出席平昌冬奥会的开幕式和闭幕式。
Mr. Trump turned down Mr. Moon’s invitation to go himself, since he had been in South Korea in November. But he agreed to consider sending a family member, like the first lady, Melania Trump, or his daughter Ivanka. Last month, officials said, the president settled on his daughter, who is also his senior adviser.
特朗普拒绝了文在寅邀请他亲自参加的请求，因为他去年11月刚访问过韩国。但他同意考虑派出一名家庭成员，比如第一夫人梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)或他的女儿伊万卡。官员们表示，上个月，总统选定了他的女儿，她也是他的高级顾问。
In addition to Ms. Trump and Ms. Sanders, the American delegation will include Senator James E. Risch, a Republican from Idaho who is in line to become the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, if Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee sticks to his decision to retire.
除了特朗普女士和桑德斯女士，美国代表团还将包括爱达荷州共和党参议员詹姆斯·E·里施(James E. Risch)，他即将成为参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)主席——如果田纳西州参议员鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)坚持退休的话。
It will also include Gen. Vincent K. Brooks, the commander of United States Forces Korea, and Shauna Rohbock, an Olympic medalist in bobsledding who serves in the National Guard.
代表团还将包括驻韩美军指挥官文森特·K·布鲁克斯将军(Vincent K. Brooks)，以及在国民警卫队(National Guard)服役的奥运会雪撬运动奖牌得主肖纳·罗博克(Shauna Rohbock)。