“What you don’t dare imagine, we dare to do” is the motto of the dream team known as “Personal Tailor,” a fantasy fabrication service (led by Ge You and Bai Baihe) that provides wealthy clients with a taste of the lives they have always wanted. No request is too outlandish (the “Custom Martyrdom Package” will furnish you with a simulated Nazi interrogation, hunger strike optional) or too elaborate, even if the outcomes are not always as planned.
 “你不敢想的，我们敢做”是一个名叫“私人订制”(Personal Tailor)的梦想团队的口号，该公司（由葛优和白百合领导）专门负责构建白日梦，让富有的客户感受一下他们一直想要的生活。不管多么古怪和复杂的要求他们都能实现（“订制烈士套餐”将让你感受纳粹刑讯的情景，是否附加绝食抗议由客户决定），尽管结果并不总是跟预期的一样。
It soon becomes clear, however, that this frothy Chinese comedy, gleefully directed by Feng Xiaogang, has more on its mind than mere jokes — though there are plenty of those, too. Arranged in a series of specific imaginary scenarios, Wang Shuo’s wordy screenplay grows increasingly serious, taking satirical digs at China’s aging population and corrupt officials, and the dearth of artistry in its mass-market movies. This last gives rise to the film’s saltiest segment, in which an acclaimed director (Li Chengru), tired of being celebrated for the vulgarity of his films, desires a new life as an art-house favorite. Turns out that distinguishing high culture from low — even using a delicious parody of the Dogme rules of filmmaking — is a lot tougher than the team expects.
不过，你很快就能看出，冯小刚导演的这部欢快、浅薄的喜剧片不仅是为了提供笑料——尽管片中有很多笑料。王朔唠叨的剧本在一系列具体的虚构场景中变得越来越严肃：讽刺中国的人口老龄化，贪腐官员，以及大众电影在艺术性方面的匮乏。后者体现在该片最辛辣的一个片段中：一位饱受赞扬的导演（李成儒饰）因其电影的粗俗而闻名，他对此感到厌倦，决心开始新生活，拍摄艺术片。结果发现，把高雅文化和低俗文化区分开来比这个团队预想的要难得多，尽管他们拙劣地遵循电影拍摄的道格玛规则(Dogme rules)。
Messy in parts and at least 15 minutes too long, “Personal Tailor” is also cunningly acted and lushly photographed (by Zhao Xiaoshi) in dazzling candy-bright colors. By the final section, however, as a wistful character apologizes to the planet for polluting its air and water, clear-cutting its forests and ravaging its grasslands, you may be a lot closer to crying than laughing.
尽管该片有些地方比较散乱，片子也过于冗长（至少可以缩短15分钟），但是演员的表演挺巧妙，画面采用鲜艳的糖果色，很绚丽（摄影指导是赵晓石）。但是在最后一部分，当一个惆怅的人物为人类污染空气和水，砍伐森林，毁坏草原而向地球道歉时，你可能更想哭，而不是笑。