WASHINGTON — The countdown to President Trump’s dismissal of James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, began last weekend with an enraged president stewing over Mr. Comey’s testimony to Congress last week, when he admitted to being “slightly nauseous” about doing anything to get Mr. Trump elected.
华盛顿——特朗普总统将联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)免职的倒计时始于上周末，当时，科米于上周向国会所做的证词正在愤怒的总统心里发酵——科米在证词中承认，做任何有助于特朗普当选的事，会让他感到“有些恶心”。
Mr. Trump, according to people close to the president, had been openly talking about firing Mr. Comey for at least a week. Despite the objections from some of his aides about the optics and the lack of an obvious successor, the grumbling evolved into a tentative plan as he angrily watched the Sunday news shows at his Bedminster, N.J., golf resort.
据知情人士透露，特朗普公开谈论解雇科米已经有至少一周。尽管遭到一些助手的反对——理由是时机不好，而且一时找不到合适的继任者——但是当他周日在自己位于新泽西州贝德明斯特的高尔夫度假酒店看了新闻之后，这种不满演变成了初步的计划。
By Monday, capping off months of festering grievances, Mr. Trump told people around him that he wanted Mr. Comey gone, repeatedly questioning Mr. Comey’s fitness for the job and telling aides there was “something wrong” with him, several people familiar with the discussions said.
几位知情人士表示，到了周一，特朗普告诉身边的人他想让科米走人，反复质疑他是否能胜任这份工作，并告诉助手他觉得科米“有些地方不太对”——积累了数月的宿怨到达了顶峰。
A White House spokeswoman on Wednesday offered a different account of how the decision was made to dismiss Mr. Comey. Justice Department officials on Monday urged Mr. Trump to fire Mr. Comey for “atrocities” committed during the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the deputy White House press secretary, told reporters at a briefing on Wednesday. The president merely endorsed that decision, she said.
周三，一位白宫发言人就如何做出解雇科米的决定提供了不同的说法。白宫新闻发言人萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)在这天召开的新闻例会上告诉记者，司法部官员周一敦促特朗普辞掉科米，理由是他在调查希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)邮件期间的“恶行”。她表示，总统只是支持了司法部的决定。
At the same time, Ms. Sanders conceded that Mr. Trump “had considered letting Director Comey go from the day he was inaugurated.” That statement was more consistent with the account given by people around the president, who portrayed Mr. Trump as having returned to Washington from New Jersey on Monday determined to act after months of growing frustration with the F.B.I. director.
与此同时，桑德斯也承认，特朗普“从就职那天起就在考虑撤掉科米”。这份声明与总统身边人士的说法更加一致，据他们讲述，在对联邦局不满数月之后，特朗普周一从新泽西返回华盛顿时决定采取行动。
At first, Mr. Trump, who is fond of vetting his decisions with a wide circle of staff members, advisers and friends, kept his thinking to a small circle, venting his anger to Vice President Mike Pence; the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II; and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who all told him they generally backed dismissing Mr. Comey.
一开始，特朗普只把想法透露给了一小群人——他喜欢在工作人员、顾问和朋友组成的广泛圈子里测试自己的决策——将自己的愤怒发泄给了副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)、白宫顾问唐纳德·F·麦克加恩二世(Donald F. McGahn II)，以及他的女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)，他们都向特朗普表示基本支持撤掉科米的决定。
Another early sounding board was Keith Schiller, Mr. Trump’s longtime director of security and now a member of the White House staff, who would later be tasked with delivering the manila envelope containing Mr. Comey’s letter of dismissal to F.B.I. Headquarters, an indication of just how personal the matter was to the president.
另一个在早期支持这一决定的人是之前长期担任特朗普安全主管、现为白宫工作人员的基思·席勒(Keith Schiller)，后来他接到任务，将内含科米解职通知的信封送到了联邦调查局总部，可见这件事对总统的个人意义有多大。
The chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon, who has been sharply critical of the F.B.I., questioned whether the time was right to dismiss Mr. Comey, arguing that doing it later would lessen the backlash, and urged him to delay, according to two people familiar with their thinking. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, had voiced similar concerns, but was more supportive of the move when Mr. Trump brushed aside aides’ objections.
据两名知情人士透露，一直猛烈抨击FBI的首席策略师史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)对撤科米的时机是否合适表示质疑，称晚一些可以减少阻力，因此劝特朗普将此事推迟。白宫幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)表达了同样的担忧，但在特朗普无视助手们的反对之后，他对此举表示了更多的支持。
Mr. Trump was adamant, denouncing Mr. Comey’s conduct in both the Clinton and Russia investigations, and left aides on Monday with the impression that he planned to take action the next day.
特朗普显得十分坚定，他同时谴责科米在克林顿和俄罗斯调查中的行为，这令助手们在周一感觉他第二天就会采取行动。
Early Tuesday, he made his final decision, keeping many aides, including the president’s communications team and network of surrogates, in the dark until news of the firing leaked out late in the afternoon. About an hour before the news broke, an administration official involved in communications and strategic planning joked that the relatively news-free events of Monday and Tuesday represented the start of a much-needed weeklong respite from the staff’s nonstop work over the last few months.
周二早些时候，特朗普做出了最后的决定，但他将包括总统公关团队和代理人网络在内的许多助手蒙在鼓里，直到解雇的消息在下午晚些时候泄露。消息曝光一小时前，一位参与通联和战略规划的政府官员还在开玩笑说，过去几个月白宫工作人员马不停蹄地工作，周一、周二相对没什么新闻事件的状态，似乎预示着他们可以这周得以喘息。
Mr. Trump explained the firing by citing Mr. Comey’s handling of the investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server — a justification that was rich in irony, White House officials acknowledged, considering that as recently as two weeks ago, the president appeared at a rally where he was serenaded with chants of “Lock her up!”
特朗普解释说，解雇科米的理由在于他调查希拉里·克林顿使用私人邮件服务器事件时的表现——白宫官员承认，考虑到两周前总统还曾出现在一个被“把她关起来！”的喊声笼罩的集会活动上，这个理由显得极富讽刺意味。
On Wednesday, the president and his staff had widened their criticism of Mr. Comey’s conduct on the Clinton inquiry to include a wider denunciation of his performance. “He wasn’t doing a good job,” Mr. Trump said, before entering a meeting with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, early Wednesday. “Very simply, he was not doing a good job.”
周三，总统和他的工作人员将批评范围进一步扩大，不仅谴责科米调查克林顿时的作为，还否定了他的工作表现。“他工作做得不怎么样，”特朗普在周三早些时候与俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)会面之前说道。“很简单，他工作做得不好。”
Yet even in his letter to Mr. Comey, the president mentioned the Russia inquiry, writing that “I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation.” And that reflected, White House aides said, what they conceded had been his obsession over the investigation Mr. Trump believes is threatening his larger agenda.
不过，即便是在给科米的信中，总统也提到了对俄罗斯的调查，写道“我感谢你在三次不同的情况下告知我没有受到调查”。白宫的助手们表示，他们承认，特朗普认为科米对这项调查的痴迷已经开始威胁对他来说更重要的日程。
The hostility toward Mr. Comey in the West Wing in recent weeks was palpable, aides said, with advisers describing an almost ritualistic need to criticize the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation to assuage an anxious and angry president.
助手们表示，白宫西翼最近几周对科米的敌意是显而易见的，有顾问提到他们几乎是仪式性地在批评FBI对俄罗斯的调查，以安抚一位焦虑而愤怒的总统。
Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime informal adviser to Mr. Trump who has been under F.B.I. scrutiny as part of the bureau’s investigation into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russian officials, was among those who urged the president to fire Mr. Comey, people briefed on the discussions said.
据知情人士透露，长期担任特朗普正式顾问的小罗杰·J·斯通(Roger J. Stone Jr.)是力劝总统解雇科米的人之一，他正在接受FBI的调查，该调查的目的是确定特朗普竞选团队与俄罗斯官员是否存在关联。
“There was a sense in the White House, I believe, that enough was enough when it came to this guy,” Mr. Stone said shortly after Mr. Comey’s dismissal became public on Tuesday.
“说到这个人，我觉得白宫内部有这样一种感觉，那就是真的受够了，”斯通在周二科米被解职的消息公开没多久便这样讲道。
It is not clear if Mr. Stone, who has told friends that he believes Mr. Comey was on a “witch hunt,” spoke with Mr. Trump directly on the matter and, if so, how recent the interactions were.
目前还不清楚斯通是否与特朗普直接谈论过此事，以及如果谈过，是在多久以前。他曾告诉朋友，他觉得科米是在进行“政治迫害”。
Mr. Trump denied in a Twitter post on Wednesday morning that he had spoken to Mr. Stone about the F.B.I. director, and Mr. Stone declined to describe his interactions with the president in an interview. But two longtime Trump associates with knowledge of the matter said the two had recently discussed their mutual dissatisfaction with Mr. Comey and his investigation.
特朗普在周三上午的一条推中否认他曾与斯通谈起过科米，斯通在接受采访时也拒绝透露自己与总统交谈的情况。但两名长期担任特朗普助手的知情人士表示，这两人谈论过他们对科米及其调查共同的不满。