BEIJING — Even as China, the world’s leading market for illegal ivory, promises to help safeguard elephants in Africa, a rare bird in Southeast Asia is in danger because its skull is being sold in China as an ivory alternative, conservationists say.
北京——保育人士表示，就在中国这个世界最大非法象牙市场承诺要协助保护非洲象的同时，一种东南亚的稀有鸟类正处于险境，因为它的头骨在中国被当成象牙的替代品来销售。
The bird, the helmeted hornbill, is already threatened by habitat loss in the lowland forests of Malaysia and western Indonesia, but now poaching is rising sharply, according to conservation groups.
根据保育团体的说法，由于在马来西亚和印尼西部低地森林的栖息地减少，这种叫做盔犀鸟的鸟类已经受到威胁，而如今盗猎行为又在激增。
More than 2,000 helmeted hornbill skulls, or casques, were seized by the authorities in Indonesia and China in the past five years, according to a new report by the Environmental Investigation Agency, a nongovernmental organization based in London. In some cases, Chinese citizens were caught trying to leave Indonesia with casques in their luggage.
伦敦非政府组织环境调查署(Environmental Investigatoin Agency)的最新报告指出，在过去五年内，印尼和中国政府没收盔犀鸟头骨（或称“头胄”）逾2000枚。有中国公民企图在行李中夹带冠角离开印尼时被查获。
Charlotte Davies, a crime analyst at the environmental agency, wrote in an email that her agency would encourage all parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora “to report on whether they have made hornbill seizures so the international community may get a fuller picture on the situation.”
调查署的犯罪分析师夏洛特·戴维斯(Charlotte Davies)在电邮中表示，该机构会鼓励牵涉其中的各方遵循《濒危野生动植物种国际贸易公约》(Convention on Internatoinal Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora)，“就他们是否没收过盔犀鸟一事提出报告，好让国际社会对情况有更全面的了解。”
The helmeted hornbill is an “Appendix I” species under the convention, meaning that it is threatened with extinction and trade is permitted only in exceptional circumstances. And China and all habitat countries in Southeast Asia are parties to the convention. Bans on commercial trade, however, have not slowed the decline of the bird’s population. Last year, the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, an organization based in Switzerland, reclassified the helmeted hornbill as “critically endangered,” up from “near threatened” three years earlier.
盔犀鸟是名列该公约“附录一” 的物种，受到灭绝威胁，只有在特例情况下才能买卖。中国和有盔犀鸟栖居的所有东南亚国家都签署了这个公约。然而商业买卖禁令并没有缓和盔犀鸟族群减少的速度。瑞士的国际自然保护联盟(International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources)在去年把盔犀鸟的保护级别从三年前的“近危”改成“极危”。
In China, the ivorylike casque is often carved into ornaments and sold as “red ivory,” because of its color, according to the environmental agency.
环境调查署表示，这些近似象牙的冠角在中国常被雕刻成装饰品销售，因其色泽而被名为“鹤顶红”。
Most of the seizures in China that the agency has documented took place in coastal cities in the southern provinces of Guangdong and Fujian and in Hong Kong. In one case in 2013, a suspect caught in possession of 76 casques in the city of Zhuhai was sentenced to five years in prison.
该机构所记录的中国查扣盔犀鸟案大多发生在广东、福建两省的沿海城市以及香港。在2013年发生的一个案例里，警方在珠海市抓获一名拥有76副盔犀鸟头骨的嫌犯，他被判处五年有期徒刑。
Once inside China, traders transport casques to distributors or workshops for processing. In July 2014, law enforcement officers in Fujian Province found 286 skulls on a long-distance bus from Shenzhen. Officials said the package came from Hong Kong and put its value at “millions of renminbi,” according to a Chinese report cited by the environmental agency.
进入中国之后，商贩就把这些头骨运至经销商或是工坊进行加工。2014年7月，福建省执法官员在来自深圳的一辆长途大巴上发现了286个盔犀鸟头骨。根据环境调查署引用的一则中国报道，官员表示这批货物的包装显示它们是从香港入境的，并估计其价值达“数百万人民币”。
China has joined the world in taking a stand against the trade in elephant and rhinoceros products. In September, during his state visit to the United States, President Xi Jinping pledged to “enact nearly complete bans on ivory import and export.”
中国已经加入世界各国的行列，对象牙和犀牛角的交易表达反对立场。中国国家主席习近平在去年9月访美期间，曾誓言要“对象牙的进出口制定近乎全面的禁令”。
But some conservationists worry that less celebrated but also threatened animals, including the helmeted hornbill, are being overlooked, becoming easy picks to meet the demand.
不过有些保育人士担心，包括盔犀鸟在内的一些动物较不知名但生存仍受威胁，这些物种遭到忽视，成为满足市场需求的容易到手的猎物。
“Shifting to hornbill ivory is like grabbing a low-hanging fruit,” Yokyok Hadiprakarsa, the director of the Indonesian Hornbill Conservation Society, wrote in an email.
“转向鹤顶红好比是抓到了一个更易得的目标，”尤克尤克·哈迪拉卡萨(Yokyok Hadiprakarsa)在电邮中写道。 他是印尼盔犀鸟保护协会(Indonesian Hornbill Conservation Society)的主任。
Ms. Davies of the environmental agency wrote: “Criminals can be opportunistic and will exploit legal loopholes as well as create new markets, so enforcement needs to keep up.”
环境调查署的戴维斯则写道：“罪犯可能伺机而动，还会钻法律漏洞、开发新市场，所以执法机构需要跟得上变化。”