The Chinese helicopter has arrived @ the Shokalskiy. It's 100% we're off! A huge thanks to all.
中国的直升机来了@ the Shokalskiy。我们百分之百能离开这里！非常感谢大家。
— Chris Turney (@ProfChrisTurney) January 2, 2014 
— Chris Turney (@ProfChrisTurney) January 2, 2014 
Updated, 10:01 a.m. The red-and-white Chinese helicopter with dual rotors hovered over the ice, then settled gently on a flat patch at one of the earth’s southernmost points. At least seven men in puffy orange jackets clambered out and onto the Antarctic polar cap.
更新于上午10：01。红白相间的中国双层旋翼直升机在冰层上方盘旋，然后轻轻落在了地球最南端的一块平地上。至少七名穿着厚厚的橙色上衣的人从飞机上走下来，踏上了南极的冰面。
So began the long-awaited rescue on Thursday of the 52 passengers of a Russian ship, the Akademik Shokalskiy, which has been trapped in ice since Dec. 24 in East Antarctica, south of Australia. The helicopter had been dispatched by a Chinese icebreaker, the Snow Dragon, that arrived within sight of the Russian ship on Dec. 27, but had been unable to carry out rescue operations earlier because of weather conditions.
周四，针对俄罗斯“绍卡利斯基院士号”(Akademik Shokalskiy)考察船，人们期盼已久的救援工作终于得以展开。这艘船从12月24日开始被困于澳大利亚以南的南极洲东部，船上共有乘客52人。这架直升机由中国破冰船“雪龙号”派遣。船在12月27日就已来到了“绍卡利斯基院士号”的视线范围以内，但是由于天气条件的原因，它此前一直未能展开救援工作。
Soon after the helicopter, the Snow Eagle, made its first successful landing near the Russian ship, it flew 12 passengers to an ice floe near an Australian icebreaker.
在“雪鹰号”直升机首次于俄罗斯被困船只附近成功着陆后不久，它就将12名乘客送到了一艘澳大利亚破冰船附近的浮冰上。
“It’s 100 percent we’re off!” Chris Turney, a professor and a leader of the scientific expedition,said on Twitter with a link to a video of the Snow Eagle landing. Mr. Turney, who was among the expedition’s members posting regularly on social media about the ordeal, also shared links to multiple photos of the rescue on Google Plus.
科考队负责人克里斯·特尼教授在Twitter上发帖称，“我们百分之百能离开这里！”他还附上了“雪鹰号”着陆的视频链接。特尼也和探险队其他成员一样，频频在社交媒体上发布关于这场灾难的讯息，他还在Google+上分享了很多救援照片的链接。
Take off! second team gone. Looking good.
起飞了！第二队人离开。看起来不错。
— Chris Turney (@ProfChrisTurney) January 2, 2014 
— Chris Turney (@ProfChrisTurney) January 2, 2014 
Australian officials had said in a news release that the plan was to take all 52 passengers to the Snow Dragon, from where a barge would transport them two miles to the Australian icebreaker, the Aurora Australis. Later, officials said on Twitter that the passengers would be taken in several trips by the Snow Eagle directly to an ice floe by the Australian ship, and from there transported to the ship for a two-week journey to Tasmania.
澳大利亚官员曾在新闻发布会上称，他们计划把船上的52名乘客全部送往“雪龙号”，然后再用小船航行2英里（约合3.2公里），把他们送到澳大利亚破冰船“南极光号”上面。此后，官员在Twitter上说，“雪鹰号”将分几次直接把乘客送到“南极光号”附近的浮冰上，然后再花两周时间用船把人送往塔斯马尼亚。
Within several hours, the Snow Eagle’s mission was accomplished.
“雪鹰号”在几小时内就完成了任务。
The plight of the Russian ship’s crew and passengers, who included scientists, journalists and tourists and were collectively called the Australasian Antarctic Expedition, has been the focus of intense attention by major news media organizations.
俄罗斯科考船上的船员和乘客（包括科学家、记者和游客）被共同称作“澳俄南极远征队”(Australasian Antarctic Expedition)，他们所在船只的处境受到了主要媒体机构的密切关注。
The BBC and The Guardian newspaper have had journalists sending live dispatches from the 233-foot Russian ship.
BBC和《卫报》(The Guardian)的记者都从这艘长233英尺（约合71米）的船上发回了现场报道。
On Thursday, as the rescue got underway, a journalist for Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, filed reports from aboard the Snow Dragon, and official Chinese news websites kept readers updated on the progress of the rescue, which was being overseen by the Australian Maritime Safety Authority.
周四，当救援工作正在进行时，中国国家通讯社新华社的一名记者还从“雪龙号”上发回了相关报道，中国官方新闻网站也一直在更新关于救援进程的信息。此次救援由澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)负责。
The captain of the Snow Eagle, Jia Shuliang, told Xinhua that the entire rescue would take five or six flights and last three or four hours as long as weather conditions were good.
“雪鹰号”机长贾树良告诉新华社说，整个救援行动大约需要飞行五六个架次，如果天气条件不错，只需要三四个小时就可以完成。
“We must be patient and wait until the adverse weather improves, as poor visibility could lead to tragedy under the current conditions of limited navigation and weather forecast,” he said before the Snow Eagle was dispatched.
“由于‘雪龙号’上没有导航设备，直升机起飞和降落地点全凭飞行员目视，一旦能见度不好就非常危险。因此，一定要耐心等到天气状况好的时候，才能出动直升机实施救援行动，”贾树良在“雪鹰号”直升机出发前说。
The Snow Dragon, or Xuelong in Chinese, left Shanghai in November on China’s 30th scientific expedition to Antarctica, Xinhua reported. People aboard it were organized into an emergency rescue and relief group after the captain of the Akademik Shokalskiy sent out a formal request on Tuesday for a helicopter rescue, the report said.
新华社报道称，“雪龙号”于11月离开上海，执行中国第三十次南极科考任务。该报道称，在“绍卡利斯基院士号”的船长周二正式请求派出直升机救援后，“雪龙号”上的人员组成了一个应急救援工作组。
The passengers aboard the Akademik Shokalskiy had initially expected to be rescued by the Chinese on Dec. 28, after having spotted the Snow Dragon the previous day, far beyond a group of penguins waddling on the ice. Mr. Turney posted a video online in which he said the expedition had heard from the Snow Dragon, which was 12 miles away. On Dec. 28, Mr. Turney posted another video in which he pointed to the Snow Dragon and said it was moving at a speed of two knots. “There’s lots of relief among the team and lots of happy faces,” he said.
“绍卡利斯基院士号”船上的乘客在12月28日就以为中国人会前来救援，因为前一天，他们隔着一群在冰上摇摇摆摆行走的企鹅，远远地看见了“雪龙号”。特尼在网上发布了一段视频。他在视频中说，考察队收到了12英里之外的“雪龙号”的消息。12月28日，特尼又发了一段视频。在这段视频中，他指着“雪龙号”说，它正在以2海里每小时的速度前行。“考察队里的人放松了很多，许多人露出了笑脸，”他说。
But weather and ice conditions delayed rescue efforts. Then, on Thursday morning, Australian officials announced that the wind in the area had slowed to 10 knots and that visibility had improved. While the 52 passengers aboard the Russian ship would be transported off by the Snow Eagle, the 22 crew members would stay aboard and ensure that the Russian ship sails from Antarctica once ice conditions improve.
但天气和冰雪条件延缓了救援行动。后来，澳大利亚官员周四早上宣布，该地区的风速已降至10海里每小时，能见度也提高了。尽管俄罗斯这艘船上的52名乘客将被“雪鹰号”转移走，但船上的22名船员会留在船上，以确保冰雪条件好转时，船能驶离南极。
Australian officials said in a news release that rescue efforts began on Dec. 25 after a maritime center in Britain received a distress call via satellite.
澳大利亚官员在一份新闻稿里说，12月25日，英国一个海事中心通过卫星收到求救信号后，救援工作启动。
The Snow Dragon operates under the management of China’s State Oceanic Administration. China bought the ship from Ukraine, which built it in 1993. It first set sail the following year. The Snow Eagle, or Xueying in Chinese, is a KA 32 helicopter that began service with the current Antarctic expedition on Nov. 6, Xinhua reported.
“雪龙号”的运行由中国国家海洋局管理。这艘船是乌克兰于1993年建造的，后被中国购得。次年，该船进行了首航。新华社报道称，“雪鹰”是一架KA 32型直升机，于11月6日加入了这次南极科考任务。
In its first flight to the Russian ship on Thursday, the Snow Eagle took all 12 members of the Chinese emergency relief group to ascertain the thickness of the ice and establish planks to ensure that the helicopter did not sink or roll over, said Mr. Jia, the Chinese helicopter captain.
“雪鹰号”机长贾树良说，在周四第一次飞往被困俄国船只时，该机搭载了中国应急救援小组的全部12名成员，以便探明冰的厚度，并铺设厚木板，确保直升机不会下沉或侧翻。
The goal of the expedition led by Mr. Turney was to do experiments to determine how environmental conditions in Antarctica had changed since the polar region was first explored by an Australian geologist, Douglas Mawson, a century ago. The ship set sail from Bluff, New Zealand, on Dec. 8, and the original plan was for the voyage to last one month.
由特尼带队的科考队的目标是进行实验，以确定自澳大利亚地质学家格拉斯·莫森(Douglas Mawson)在一个世纪前首次探索南极地区以来，该地区的环境条件发生了怎样的变化。这艘船于12于8日从新西兰布拉夫起航，最初的计划是一个月完成航行。
The Aurora, with 52 rescued passengers, now sets sail for Tasmania, with an expected arrival date of mid-January.
目前，搭载了52名获救乘客的“南极光号”正起航前往塔斯马尼亚，预计1月中旬抵达。