WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald J. Trump, who has for years flown in a jet bearing his name, criticized a pending order for a new Air Force One, saying Tuesday morning on Twitter that the upgrade would cost too much.
华盛顿——多年来一直乘坐印有其名字的喷气式飞机出行的候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)，对一项尚未敲定的新空军一号(Air Force One)采购案提出了批评。他于周二早上在Twitter上表示，更新空军一号的花费太过高昂。
The post appeared to come out of the blue: Mr. Trump had not focused during the campaign on the cost of Boeing’s plans for a next-generation plane for the president.
这番话似乎是从天而降的：特朗普在竞选期间并未关注过波音(Boeing)公司打造新一代总统专机的计划所涉及的费用。
And his criticism of the contract to build on a newer Boeing 747-8 airframe raised the possibility that he might prefer to keep flying his own, well-appointed 757.
他对订购新一代波音飞机747-8的合同颇有微词，让世人看到了这样一种可能性：他或许倾向于继续乘坐自己的那架设施齐全的757。
The Secret Service and the Defense Department might object to Mr. Trump keeping his own airplane. Beyond convenience, Air Force One carries an array of top-secret communications gear for conducting everyday business — and for managing a global crisis, if required, while aloft. It is also equipped with a number of never discussed security features.
特勤局(Secret Service)和国防部或许会反对特朗普接着使用自己的飞机。除了让出行更方便，空军一号还配有绝密通信设备，可供处理日常事务——如果需要的话，总统甚至可以在空中处理全球性危机。它还具有许多从未被人提及的安全功能。
The current Air Force One, with its white and blue design recognizable around the globe, is aging. There are actually two of the Boeing 747-200B planes, each bearing the famous call sign only when the president is aboard. The Air Force designates them VC-25A.
当前服役的这架蓝白相间的空军一号是全世界都很熟悉的，但飞机正在老化。事实上一共有两架波音747-200B飞机，总统登上哪一架，哪一架才会启用这个著名的无线电呼号。美国空军给它的编号是VC-25A。
They were commissioned by President Ronald Reagan and delivered during the term of his successor, President George Bush. The new plane, which the Defense Department had hoped to deliver to the White House by 2023, would have been more powerful, able to travel farther and more technologically advanced.
它们是由罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)总统委托制造的，不过是在乔治·布什(George Bush)总统任内交付。国防部希望订购的新飞机可以在2023年交付给白宫。新飞机性能更强，能飞得更远，在技术上也更先进。
But given Mr. Trump’s Twitter post, it is unclear when — or whether — Air Force One will get an upgrade.
但鉴于特朗普的推文，目前尚不清楚空军一号何时才会升级，或者是否会升级。
In remarks to reporters at Trump Tower shortly after his message, Mr. Trump made clear that he was serious about the issue. He accused Boeing of escalating the costs of building a new plane.
发帖不久后，特朗普在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)内明确地告诉记者，他对这件事是认真的。他指责波音公司提高了新飞机的制造成本。
“The plane is totally out of control,” Mr. Trump said. “It’s going to be over $4 billion for Air Force One program, and I think it’s ridiculous. I think Boeing is doing a little bit of a number. We want Boeing to make a lot of money, but not that much money.”
“飞机的开支完全失控了，”特朗普说。“空军一号项目的费用将在40亿美元以上。我认为波音有点儿不厚道。我们想让波音多赚钱，但不是多到这种程度。”
In a statement just before noon on Tuesday, Boeing made no mention of Mr. Trump or his post on Twitter, but it said it remained committed to proceeding with the upgrade to Air Force One.
波音公司在周二午前发表的声明中没有提及特朗普或者他的推文，但它表示仍在致力于推进空军一号的升级换代工作。
“We are currently under contract for $170 million to help determine the capabilities of these complex military aircraft that serve the unique requirements of the president of the United States,” said the statement, which was posted on the company’s website. “We look forward to working with the U.S. Air Force on subsequent phases of the program allowing us to deliver the best planes for the president at the best value for the American taxpayer.”
“我们目前有价值1.7亿美元的合同在身，旨在帮助提升复杂的军用飞机的性能，以满足美国总统的独特需求，”发布在该公司网站上的声明称。“我们期待与美国空军在该项目的后续阶段进行合作，从而在符合美国纳税人最佳利益的前提下为总统提供最好的飞机。”
As an icon of presidential power, Air Force One has no equal and presidents of both parties have repeatedly expressed that they would miss flying the world on it once they leave office. President Obama last year said the plane was the No. 1 perk of his office.
作为总统权力的标志，空军一号是无与伦比的，出自两党的总统都曾多次表示，他们在卸任后会非常怀念乘坐它周游世界的日子。奥巴马总统去年表示，搭乘空军一号是他当总统期间享受的最大福利。
But it is also an expensive perk, reportedly costing as much as $180,000 per hour to fly. And building the plane, with its top-secret communications and defenses against attacks, runs in the billions of dollars. As of last year, the Air Force had asked for $3 billion over the next five years to develop and build the planes.
但这同时也是一项昂贵的福利，据报道，它每小时的飞行成本高达18万美元。制造这种配有绝密通信设备和预防攻击设施的飞机，要耗费数十亿美元。截至去年，美国空军已经为未来5年的飞机研发和制造工作申请了30亿美元资金。
That has long prompted concerns over waste among government watchdog groups. And it is not only the president’s plane: During Mr. Obama’s tenure, the cost of replacing the equally iconic Marine One helicopter fleet had grown so much that Mr. Obama canceled that order, too. A new contract has since been drawn up.
因此，一些政府监督组织长期以来一直担心太过浪费。而且总统搭乘的飞机不只是空军一号：在奥巴马任期内，同样十分著名的“海军陆战队一号”(Marine One)直升机队的飞机置换费用也大幅提高，以至于奥巴马取消了订单。自从那时起，相关方面一直在起草一份新合约。
Air Force One is much better known across the world, serving as the backdrop for the president’s arrival in countries both friendly and not.
空军一号在世界各地的名气更大，每当总统抵达其他国家，不论是跟美国是否保持友好关系，它都会充当背景板。
On Sept. 11, 2001, President George W. Bush flew the plane from air base to air base, staying aloft because of Secret Service fears that he might be targeted as the government scrambled to assess the terrorist attacks in New York and elsewhere.
2011年9月11日，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统乘坐空中一号从一个空军基地飞往另一个空军基地，一直待在空中，因为特勤局担心，在政府忙于对纽约和其他地方的恐怖袭击进行评估之际，他可能会成为攻击目标。
While impressive — the current Air Force One is 4,000 square feet, including a bedroom and office for the president, conference rooms and a cabin for the traveling news media — it is not gold-plated like the fixtures in Mr. Trump’s plane.
现役空军一号尽管令人赞叹——面积4000平方英尺，内有总统专用的一间卧室和一间办公室，还有会议室以及一个为随行媒体准备的专用舱——但并不像特朗普的飞机那样镶金饰银。
It is unclear what motivated Mr. Trump’s Twitter post. Aides to the president-elect did not respond to requests about whether he or others on his team had conducted a review of the Boeing contract.
目前尚不清楚特朗普发推是出于什么动机。当被问及特朗普或其团队里的其他人是否审核过波音的合约时，这位候任总统的助手未作回应。
On the morning transition conference call with reporters, Mr. Trump’s spokesman, Jason Miller, said the president-elect sold his entire stock portfolio in June. The remarks were in response to a question about an old Twitter post from Mr. Trump boasting about purchasing Boeing stock.
早上跟记者开过渡期事务电话会议的时候，特朗普的发言人贾森·米勒(Jason Miller)说，候任总统在6月份抛售了手头的所有股票。这是在回应特朗普以前发的一条推文所引发的质疑，当时他炫耀自己购入了波音的股票。
Last week, Mr. Trump announced a new panel of corporate advisers, called the President’s Strategic and Policy Forum. One member of that panel is W. James McNerney Jr., the former chairman and chief executive of Boeing.
上周，特朗普宣布成立一个企业顾问委员会，名为总统策略和政策论坛(President’s Strategic and Policy Forum)。其成员之一小W·詹姆斯·迈克纳尼(W. James McNerney Jr.)曾是波音董事长和首席执行官。
There is no reason Mr. Trump could not continue using the current Air Force One. Even if the Boeing contract goes forward, it is unlikely that a new version of the plane would be ready before the tail end of a second Trump term, should he win one.
目前看来，特朗普没有理由不继续使用现役空军一号。即使波音的合约继续生效，新飞机至少要在特朗普第二个任期临近尾声之前才能就位——如果他能赢得第二个任期的话。
So Mr. Trump’s action — if he follows through on canceling the Boeing contract — would affect his successor more than himself.
因此，特朗普的举动——如果他说到做到，取消跟波音的合约的话——会影响到他的继任者，而非他自己。