HONG KONG — In the tiled corridors of Stanley Prison, a maximum-security complex on a rocky edge of Hong Kong’s main island, the chatter among the foreign inmates on Monday mornings tends to revolve around a single question.
香港——赤柱监狱(Stanley Prison)位于香港主岛岩石崎岖的边缘地带，是香港安全级别最高的设施，每逢周一，在铺着瓷砖的监狱走廊里，外国犯人们之间的闲聊往往围绕着以下这样一个话题。
Did you hear what “Brother Bruce” said last night?
你听了“布鲁斯兄弟”(Brother Bruce)昨晚的话吗？
Hundreds of prisoners in this Chinese city listen to “Hour of Love,” a variety show that airs every Sunday on a local station and includes hymns and Bible readings, along with pop music in Igbo, Punjabi, Spanish and other languages.
在这个中国城市，有数百名囚犯每周日都会收听当地广播电台播放的综艺节目“爱的一小时”(Hour of Love)，其内容包括赞美诗和圣经知识，以及伊博语、旁遮普语、西班牙语和其他语言的流行音乐。
The inmates say the show is a spiritual balm that helps them cope with life behind bars in a faraway land. They are especially drawn to a segment where the American host, Bruce Aitken, reads from inmates’ handwritten letters and plays tear-jerking voice mail messages from their parents, spouses, children and former cellmates.
犯人们说，这个节目就像一种精神慰藉，帮助他们应付异国他乡的牢狱生活。他们特别喜爱美国主持人布鲁斯·艾特肯(Bruce Aitken)主持的环节，他朗读犯人们手写的信件，播放父母、配偶、子女和前囚犯们发来的催人泪下的语音信息。
“His program was very, very uplifting,” said Anita Hamid, 42, a mother of three from Kenya who was released in February after serving eight years and four months in Hong Kong for heroin trafficking.
“他的节目非常、非常振奋人心，”42岁的安妮塔·哈米德(Anita Hamid)来自肯尼亚，是三个孩子的母亲，因贩运海洛因在香港入狱，服刑八年零四个月后，于今年二月获得释放。
“It touched my heart and told me that, though I did wrong in that country, I still have a purpose in life,” she said by telephone from Nairobi.
“它打动了我的心，告诉我，尽管我在那个国家做了错事，但我仍然拥有人生的目标，”她在内罗毕接受电话采访时说。
Many of the foreign prisoners in this financial hub of about seven million people are poor men and women from Africa or Latin America who were recruited to smuggle drugs through Hong Kong International Airport, two volunteer prison chaplains said in interviews.
两名志愿监狱牧师在接受采访时表示，在香港这个大约拥有700万人口的金融中心里，许多外国囚犯都是来自非洲或拉丁美洲的贫苦男女，他们被犯罪组织招募而来，携带走私毒品通过香港国际机场。
As of late July, there were 1,679 foreign inmates in Hong Kong, representing about 20 percent of the city’s overall prison population, said Laura Chan, a spokeswoman for Hong Kong’s Correctional Services Department. She said that 641 were serving drug-related sentences. Inmates from mainland China are not counted as foreign prisoners.
香港惩教署发言人劳拉·陈(Laura Chan)说，截至七月底，香港共有1679名外国犯人，约占全市监狱总人数的20%。她说，其中641人是因与毒品有关的案件入狱。来自中国大陆的犯人不算作外国囚犯。
Hong Kong’s criminal justice laws, which include an automatic one-third sentence reduction for good behavior, are usually seen as generous compared with those of other countries, said Simon Young, a law professor at the University of Hong Kong.
香港大学法学教授杨艾文(Simon Young)说，香港刑法规定，表现良好的犯人可自动获得三分之一刑期的减刑，这一规定通常被视为比其他国家宽大许多。
However, case reviews from 2012 to 2016 resulted in further reductions beyond those for good behavior for only one of the 846 prisoners with fixed-term sentences of 10 years or longer, government data show. (Those figures do not apply to life sentences.)
然而，政府数据显示，根据2012年至2016年的案例审查结果，在被判十年及以上有期徒刑的846名犯人中，除因表现良好而获得减刑的，只有一人获得进一步减刑。（该统计数字不适用于无期徒刑。）
Mr. Aitken, 72, said that he regarded “Hour of Love” as both a service for the inmates and a means of encouraging the authorities to consider granting more early releases for long-term prisoners in general.
72岁的艾特肯说，他把“爱的一小时”视为对犯人的服务，同时也是为了鼓励当局考虑更早一些释放服刑期较长的犯人。
“I believe in mercy over justice,” he said recently over lunch. A stack of inmates’ letters sat beside his sandwich.
“我相信怜悯多过法律制裁，”最近，他一边吃午饭一边接受了采访，三明治旁边放着一堆犯人的来信。
Mr. Aitken said a typical drug-trafficking sentence in Hong Kong was 20 years, reduced to 13 years with a guilty plea. He added that some inmates were married couples who were held in separate prisons without visitation rights.
艾特肯说，在香港，毒品贩运罪的刑期一般是20年，认罪后可减至13年。他补充说，有些囚犯是已婚夫妇，他们被关押在不同监狱，没有探视权。
Mr. Aitken said that he empathized with his incarcerated listeners for an obvious reason: He, too, has served time.
艾特肯说，他能与那些被监禁的听众产生共情，原因很明显：他也曾经入狱服刑。
“If there are sinners and saints, I’m much more a sinner, that’s for sure,” he said with a gentle laugh.
“如果世上有罪人和圣徒，我肯定更像一个罪人，”他轻声笑道。
Mr. Aitken grew up in New Jersey and moved to Vietnam in 1969 — not as a soldier, but for a banking job with American Express. He later moved to Hong Kong, he said, to work as a money launderer.
艾特肯在新泽西州长大，于1969年迁往越南——不是作为士兵，而是作为美国运通公司的一名银行职员。他说，他后来搬到香港从事洗钱业。
For much of the 1970s and 1980s, he ferried cash around Asia, he wrote in a memoir that was published this year, “The Cleaner: The True Story of One of the World’s Most Successful Money Launderers.” Some of his clients were marijuana smugglers.
他在今年出版的回忆录《清洗者：世界上最成功的洗钱者之一的真实故事》(The Cleaner: The True Story of One of the World’s Most Successful Money Launderers)一书中写道，在1970年代和1980年代的大部分时间里，他把现金运送到亚洲各地。他的一些客户是大麻走私者。
In 1989, he was arrested in Thailand and sent to Nevada on money-laundering and drug-trafficking charges that carried a maximum total sentence of 40 years. He was sentenced to five years and served less than one as part of a plea bargain.
1989年，他在泰国被捕，之后被遣送到内华达州，因洗钱和贩毒罪名被起诉，这些罪名的最高刑期总共可达到40年。最后，由于一项认罪交易，他被判处五年徒刑，服刑不到一年。
After completing unsupervised parole in Hong Kong, Mr. Aitken said, he immersed himself in the city’s Roman Catholic community as a way of feeding a spiritual hunger. That led him to set up a kiosk on Sundays near the city’s waterfront that featured choir performances and catered mainly to domestic workers from the Philippines.
在香港完成无监督的假释后，艾特肯说，为了填补精神上的空虚，他全心投入了这座城市中的罗马天主教社区。后来他在城市常有合唱表演和菲律宾家政工人聚集的滨水地区附近设立了一个周日信息亭。
He said that the kiosk was closed in 2003 because of the outbreak of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome. But the following year he started a radio show as a kind of replacement.
他说，2003年，由于严重急性呼吸综合征(SARS)爆发，信息亭关闭了。但接下来的一年，他创建了一个广播节目，作为替代。
“Hour of Love” began as a purely musical broadcast. But the station’s phone started ringing, he said, “and I had to start speaking — much to my chagrin, because I had no experience.”
“爱的一小时”开始是纯粹的音乐广播。但是后来开始有人给广播站打电话，他说，“我不得不开始讲话——这其实让我觉得很不安，因为我没有经验。”
Domestic workers began calling to share prayers and personal reflections, he said, and the show gained a following — 60,000 listeners in 2007, according to the station’s estimates.
他说，家政工作人员开始给他打电话，分享他们的祷告，以及自己的一些反思，根据电台估计，2007年，他的节目拥有6万名听众。
Then a prison chaplain told Mr. Aitken that the show also had a following inside Hong Kong’s prisons. So during one episode, he greeted the prisoners and invited them to write to his postal box.
后来一个监狱牧师告诉艾特肯，这个节目在香港的监狱里也有收听者。所以在一期节目中，他向犯人们表示问候，邀请他们写信给他的邮政信箱。
Letters flooded in, Mr. Aitken said. In a busy week, he said, he receives 25 or more letters from inmates, including song requests and notes for their relatives about special occasions or family emergencies.
艾特肯说，大量信件很快涌了进来。在忙碌的一周里，他会收到25封来自犯人们的信件，其中包括为了特殊场合或家中大事的点歌要求，以及给亲人的留言。
Many offer shout-outs to cellmates and effusive praise for the show’s host.
许多人都向狱友们大声疾呼，并且对这位节目主持人献上热情洋溢的赞美。
“We all love you Brother Bruce,” an inmate named Alahaji wrote in a letter last month. “And thanks once again for making us to believe that we’re not abandoned.”
“我们都爱你，布鲁斯兄弟，”一位名叫阿拉哈吉(Alahaji)的犯人上个月写信说。“再次感谢你让我们相信，我们没有被遗弃。”
Another inmate, Osorio Fabio Antonio, wrote: “You are a very special person to me, and not only to me, to all of us.”
另一名犯人奥索里奥·法比奥·安东尼奥(Osorio Fabio Antonio)写道：“你对我来说是一个非常特别的人，不仅对我而言，对我们所有人来说都是如此。”
Mr. Aitken said “Hour of Love” had increased in length, to 150 minutes from 60, since its first broadcast in 2004, and now required about 10 hours of preparation every week. That time is in addition to his volunteer work at a local church that earmarks donations for his show.
艾特肯表示，“爱的一小时”已经变得更长了，从开播的2004年的一个小时到150分钟，现在每周需要进行约10小时的准备工作。除此以外，他还在附近的教堂做义工。该教堂会将一部分捐款拨给他的节目。
“Maybe I do it for my own personal penance,” he said of his efforts.
“或许我这么做是为了赎罪，”他说起自己的工作。
“Maybe,’’ he added, “I’m trying to live a better life.”
“或许，”他接着说，“我是努力想要活得更好。”
Just after 8 p.m. on a recent Sunday, Mr. Aitken was joined in the radio studio by an Australian priest and two Filipino leaders of his “Hour of Love” church group.
最近一个周日，晚上8点刚过，一名澳大利亚神父和艾特肯“爱的时间”教会团体的两名菲律宾领袖便和艾特肯一起现身播音室。
At 8:30 p.m., they began an evening of reciting Scriptures, playing inmates’ song requests and reading inmates’ letters that were scattered among the microphones and coffee cups.
8点半，他们开始了一晚上的朗诵圣经、播放犯人点播的歌曲和朗读散落在麦克风和咖啡杯之间的犯人来信。
Mr. Aitken looked tired at points in the broadcast, but mostly radiant. He even sang along with some of the music, pausing to shout the names of some prisoners.
广播期间，艾特肯有时候看上去有些疲惫，但大部分时候都神采奕奕。他甚至还跟着一些音乐哼唱，中途停下来喊出一些犯人的名字。
“Hallelujah!” he said during a hymn played close to 11 p.m. “Come on, everyone, sing! I want all the correctional officers to ask you: ‘What were you singing last night?’ ”
“哈利路亚！”他在快11点播放一首圣歌时说。“来吧，大家一起唱！我想让所有管教员问你们：‘你们昨晚唱了什么？’”