BEAVERTON, ORE. — To most people, the word “mitochondria” is only dimly familiar, the answer to a test question in some bygone high-school biology class. But to Shoukhrat Mitalipov, the mysterious power producers inside every human cell are a lifelong obsession.
俄勒冈州比弗顿——对大多数人而言，“线粒体”不过是一个隐约熟悉的词，是许久以前高中生物课上的一个测试答案。可是，对舒凯拉特·米塔利波夫(Shoukhrat Mitalipov)而言，这种存在于人体每个细胞内的神秘的能量生产者足以让他沉迷一生。
“My colleagues, they say I’m a ‘mitochondriac,’ that I only see this one thing,” he said recently in his modest, clutter-free office at Oregon Health and Science University. He smiled. “Maybe they are right.”
“我的同事说，我就是一个‘线粒体狂人’，我眼里只有这一样东西，”他最近这样说道。当时他正在自己位于俄勒冈健康与科学大学(Oregon Health and Science University)简朴而整洁的办公室里，面带微笑。“或许他们是对的。”
With a name that most Americans can’t pronounce (it is Shoe-KHRAHT Mee-tuhl-EE-pov) and an accent that sounds like the villain’s in a James Bond film, Dr. Mitalipov, 52, has shaken the field of genetics by perfecting a version of the world’s tiniest surgery: removing the nucleus from a human egg and placing it into another. In doing so, this Soviet-born scientist has drawn the ire of bioethicists and the scrutiny of federal regulators.
大多数的美国人都无法正确发出米塔利波夫博士的全名，他的口音听上去就像是詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)电影中的反派。52岁的他因为改进了世界上最小型的一种手术而撼动了遗传学界，那就是把人类卵子的细胞核剥离出来，放进另一枚卵子中。这名出生在前苏联的科学家已因此触怒了生物伦理学家，并受到联邦监管机构的调查。
The procedure is intended to help women conceive children without passing on genetic defects in their cellular mitochondria. Such mutations are rare, but they can cause severe problems, including neurological damage, heart failure and blindness. About one in 4,000 babies in the United States is born with an inherited mitochondrial disease; there is no treatment, and few live into adulthood.
这个过程是为了帮助女性怀上不会遗传自身细胞线粒体基因缺陷的孩子。这种突变相当罕见，但它们会导致严重的问题，包括神经损伤、心力衰竭和失明。美国新生儿中患有遗传性线粒体疾病的比例大约为4000:1；现在这类疾病还无法治愈，几乎没有患者能活到成年。
Mitochondria have their own sets of genes, inherited solely from mothers, and women who carry mitochondrial mutations are understandably eager to not pass them to their children. Dr. Mitalipov’s procedure would allow these women to bear children by placing the nucleus from the mother’s egg into a donor egg whose nucleus has been removed. The defective mitochondria, which float outside the nucleus in the egg’s cytoplasm, are left behind.
线粒体有自己的基因组，只遗传自母亲一方，携带线粒体突变的女性自然极不愿意把它们遗传给自己的孩子。米塔利波夫博士的这种操作，能够把这些女性卵子的核取出，再放入捐献者已经去核的卵子中，而后怀孕。有缺陷的线粒体漂在卵核外的细胞质中，会被排除在外。
“It was a major breakthrough,” said Douglas C. Wallace, a professor of pathology and laboratory medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. “He’s an exceptionally talented person.”
宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)病理学和实验室医学教授道格拉斯·C·华莱士(Douglas C. Wallace)说，“这是一项重大的突破。他是一个绝无仅有的天才。”
But the resulting baby would carry genetic material from three parents — the mother, the host egg’s donor and the father — an outcome that ethicists have deplored.
不过，由此诞下的婴儿会携有三名父母的基因物质，即母亲、卵子捐献者和父亲，这一后果受到了伦理学家的强烈谴责。
That specter drew critics from all over the country to a hotel in suburban Maryland late last month, where Dr. Mitalipov tried to persuade a panel of experts convened by the Food and Drug Administration that the procedure, which he has pioneered in monkeys, was ready to test in people.
上个月末，这种担忧在全国上下引发的指责声，使得人们将目光聚焦到马里兰州郊区的一家旅馆。在那里，米塔利波夫博士试图劝说美国食品和药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）召集的专家小组相信，这种已在猴子身上率先经过试验的操作，已做好进行人体试验的准备了。
Some told the officials that the technique could introduce new genetic mutations into the human gene pool. Others warned that it could be used later for something ethically murkier — perhaps, said Marcy Darnovsky, executive director of the Center for Genetics and Society, “to engineer children with specific character traits.”
一些人对官员们说，这项技术可能会把新的基因突变引入人类基因库。另外一些人则警告称，该技术日后可能会被用于一些在道德上模棱两可的领域，基因与社会中心(Center for Genetics and Society)执行董事玛茜·达诺夫斯基(Marcy Darnovsky)说，也许，它会被用于“制造带有特定性格特征的孩子”。
Back in his office, Dr. Mitalipov waved off those warnings. Mitochondrial DNA comprises just 37 genes, which direct the production of enzymes and molecules that the cell needs for energy, he noted. They have nothing to do with traits like eye and hair color, which are encoded in the nucleus.
回到办公室的米塔利波夫博士对这些警告不屑一顾。他指出，线粒体DNA只由37个基因组成，它们指导着细胞产生能量所需的酶和细胞分子的制造。它们和眼睛、发色等人体特征毫无关系，此类编码存于细胞核内。
“There are always people trying to stir things up,” said Dr. Mitalipov, an American citizen who grew up in what is now Kazakhstan. “Many of them made their careers by criticizing me.”
米塔利波夫博士说，“总有人试图搅局。他们当中的许多人以批评我为业。”他是一名美国公民，在现为哈萨克斯坦领土的地方长大。
The United States is not the only country weighing mitochondrial replacement. In Britain, the government has issued draft regulations that would govern clinical trials in people. If accepted into law by Parliament, such trials, which are how banned, would be allowed to go forward, although regulators would have to license any clinical application.
美国不是唯一正在考虑线粒体置换技术的国家。在英国，政府已经公布了一份规章草案，用于管理人体临床试验。如果议会通过该草案，那么此类目前仍被禁止的试验可获准推进，不过，任何临床应用都必须获得监管机构的许可。
As researchers began to suspect defective mitochondria as a cause in more diseases, Dr. Mitalipov wondered whether replacing them might be possible.
随着研究人员开始怀疑有缺陷的线粒体是更多疾病的诱因，米塔利波夫博士在考虑，是否能够置换掉这些线粒体。
Scientists already had experimented with combining genetic material from three people to make a baby. About 15 years ago, researchers in New Jersey injected a bit of cell fluid from donor eggs into the eggs of women who were having fertility problems. Those experiments, which came shortly after the cloning of Dolly the sheep, set off such a uproar that the F.D.A. eventually told researchers that they could not perform them without special permission.
科学家们早就试验过通过混合三个人的基因来创造新生命。15年前，新泽西州的研究人员曾从捐献者的卵子里抽取一点细胞液，注射到有生育问题的女性卵子中。这些在克隆羊多利(Dolly)出生后不久进行的试验，引发了轩然大波，以至于FDA最终告诉研究人员，在没有获得特别许可的情况下，他们不可再从事此类试验。
Dr. Mitalipov persevered. At Oregon Health and Science University’s National Primate Research Center, one of eight in the country, he spent years perfecting a way to create monkey eggs with donated mitochondria. He persuaded software developers to adapt a program that would allow real-time viewing of the necessary microsurgery. A special microscope was developed so that human hands, too blunt an instrument on their own, could conduct the operation with joysticks that look like upside-down flashlights.
米塔利波夫博士没有放弃。全美一共有八所相关研究机构，俄勒冈健康与科学大学灵长类动物研究中心(Oregon Health and Science University’s National Primate Research Center)是其中之一。在那里，他花了多年时间完善用捐献线粒体来制造猴子卵子的技术。他劝说软件开发商调整了某种软件，实时观测所需的显微手术。由于人类双手不够灵巧，他们研制了特殊的显微镜，以便人手能通过操纵控制杆来完成手术。这些控制杆看起来好像头朝下的手电筒。
“He’s just a really practical guy,” said Daniel M. Dorsa, senior vice president for research at the university. “He just nose-to-the-grindstone plowed through and figured out what it took.”
俄勒冈健康与科学大学资深副校长丹尼尔·M·多尔萨(Daniel M. Dorsa)说，“他就是一个非常实际的人。他埋头苦干，通过细心钻研终于发现了关键所在。”
Success came in 2008 in a darkened, hot laboratory room. On April 24, 2009, twin male rhesus monkeys, Mito and Tracker, were born with replaced mitochondria. Later, with some adjustments Dr. Mitalipov replicated the procedure in human eggs. Because of federal rules against genetic manipulation, the eggs were not allowed to mature.
2008年，他在一间黑暗闷热的实验室里取得了成功。2009年4月24日，两只置换了线粒体的孪生雄性恒河猴米托(Mito)和特拉克(Tracker)出生了。之后，米塔利波夫博士对这项技术做出了一些调整，把它复制到了人类卵子的置换中。由于联邦法规禁止进行基因控制，这些卵子未获准继续长大成熟。