It may seem improbable that a network sitcom could revolve around the lives and loves of a group of scientists at the California Institute of Technology, or Caltech. But “The Big Bang Theory,” which begins its seventh season Sept. 26 on CBS, is one of the most popular comedies on television.
电视网上播出的情景喜剧，竟然会围绕加州理工学院（California Institute of Technology，简称Caltech）一群科学家的生活和爱情故事展开，这似乎不太现实。但是，将于9月26日在CBS上开播第7季的《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)却成了最受欢迎的电视喜剧之一。
Part of its success might lie in the fact that one of its executive producers and script writers, Eric Kaplan, knows comedy and academia. His résumé includes not only “The Simpsons” and “The Late Show With David Letterman,” but also Harvard and a Ph.D. program — never completed — at the University of California, Berkeley.
这部喜剧片的成功或许在某种程度上是因为，作为监制和编剧之一的埃里克·卡普兰(Eric Kaplan)既懂喜剧又懂学术。他的简历上不仅有《辛普森一家》(The Simpsons)和《大卫深夜秀》(Late Show with David Letterman)，而且还有哈佛大学(Harvard)和加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的一个博士项目——不过这个博士项目没有完成。
We spoke with Mr. Kaplan, 46, for two hours in Boston and again by telephone. A condensed, edited version of the two conversations follows.
我们在波士顿与46岁的卡普兰交谈了两个小时，后来又对他进行了电话采访。以下是经过删减、整理的两次谈话内容。
You grew up in Brooklyn, right?
你是在布鲁克林长大的，对吧？
I grew up in Flatbush. My mother was a biology teacher at Erasmus Hall. My father was a storefront lawyer. I got into Hunter High School when I was 12, and I took the subway to Manhattan.
我是在弗拉特布什(Flatbush)长大的。我母亲是伊拉斯谟霍尔中学(Erasmus Hall)的一名生物老师，父亲则是一个小律所的律师。12岁时，我进入亨特中学(Hunter High School)就读，要乘地铁去曼哈顿。
Hunter was an awakening. I had friends from all over the city. During lunch hours, we’d go look at the arms and armor collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Like the characters in “The Big Bang Theory,” we played a lot of Dungeons and Dragons. I went to comic book conventions. I started reading philosophy pretty young.
亨特中学给了我很多启迪。我的朋友来自城市的各个地方，我们会利用午餐时间去大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)参观那里收藏的武器和盔甲。和《生活大爆炸》中的人物一样，我们也经常玩“龙与地下城”(Dungeons and Dragons)的游戏，我会去参加漫画大会，我从很小就开始阅读哲学了。
Then I got into Harvard. My uncle said, “You should go to Harvard because they have a greater tolerance for weirdos than other schools.” And I said, “I’m not aware that I’m a weirdo.” And he said, “Uh-huh.”
然后我进了哈佛。我叔叔说，“你应该去念哈佛，因为它比其他学校更能容忍怪人。”我说，“我不觉得自己是怪人。”他说，“是么？”
Was Harvard anything like your version of Caltech on “The Big Bang Theory”?
哈佛与你在《生活大爆炸》中描述的加州理工有相似之处吗？
It was. Because you had people there who were sincerely and passionately interested in what they were doing. That world was about people so entrenched in whatever they were studying that they forget to put their pants on. Now, I don’t think I ever did that. But I’m sure I knew people who did.
有。因为那里的人对自己所做的事情都非常真诚而热情。在那样的世界中，人们深深地沉迷于自己研究的东西，甚至会忘记穿裤子。现在回想起来，我不认为自己曾做过那种事，但是我能确定我认识这样的人。
The idea that you’re more interested in the amazing problems that life offers than in some kind of status game was genuine there, and that’s what we try to convey about the characters on the show.
人们会对生活呈现出的奇妙问题更感兴趣，而不是什么追名逐利的游戏，在那里这种情况很真实存在的。这也是我们想让剧中人物表现出来的特质。
The Nobel Prize physicist Leon Lederman spent years trying to interest Hollywood in a television series featuring scientists. He got nowhere. How did Chuck Lorre, who first developed your series, get it done?
诺贝尔物理学奖得主利昂·莱德曼(Leon Lederman)花了很多年时间，想让好莱坞(Hollywood)对科学家题材的一部电视剧感兴趣，可他并未成功。最先着手这部剧的查克·洛尔(Chuck Lorre)是怎样做到的？
Well, Chuck Lorre is an incredibly accomplished and successful television producer. Leon Lederman shouldn’t feel bad. I bet if Chuck Lorre wanted to run an experiment on a particle collider, they wouldn’t let him.
查克·洛尔是很有建树、十分成功的电视制片人，利昂·莱德曼不应该感到不快。我想，如果查克·洛尔想要用粒子对撞机来做实验的话，他们也绝不会允许他这么做的。
Lederman was told that nobody would want to watch a show about a bunch of nerds. Why was this assessment wrong?
曾经有人告诉莱德曼，没人会愿意看一部关于一群书呆子的节目。这个判断为什么错了？
I think that Chuck and Bill Prady, the show’s creators, figured out that the experience of being an outsider had universal appeal. The emotional pain at the heart of “The Big Bang Theory” is the feeling of being an outsider. Our characters, they don’t have to be scientists. They could be anybody who’s felt like an outsider.
我想这部剧的主创查克和比尔·普拉迪(Bill Prady)很清楚，作为一名局外人的经历能够引发共鸣。在《生活大爆炸》里处于中心地位的情感苦痛，就是那种身为局外人的感觉。我们的人物并不一定要是科学家，他们可以是感觉自己是局外人的任何人。
Aren’t you stereotyping scientists by labeling them as misfits?
你给科学家贴上不合群的标签，难道不是在给他们塑造一个刻板的印象吗？
Listen, it’s a story, not a thesis about how everyone is. It’s a collection of specific characters. All scientists are not Sheldon Cooper, who finds it difficult to hug someone or go out to lunch and divide a check. But many people whose cognitive ability outstrips their emotional sense can see some aspect of Sheldon in themselves.
听我说，这是一个故事，而不是一篇关于人物形象的论文。这里面聚集了很多具体的人物。并非所有科学家都是谢尔顿·库珀(Sheldon Cooper)，会觉得拥抱别人，或者出去吃午餐，或者划分账单是件困难的事。然而许多认知能力比情感能力强的人，都能在自己身上看到谢尔顿的影子。
How do you find the science content for your stories?
你怎样为故事寻找科学内容？
Well, let’s say we decide that Amy and Sheldon should have a fight. Since they’re scientists, their fight will be about science — about the relative priorities of neuroscience and physics. What’s going on emotionally is they’re arguing about the terms of their relationship, but they will cover it by expressing themselves about science. In that case, I wrote that scene because I have my own theories on that subject.
举个例子，假如我们要让艾米(Amy)和谢尔顿吵一次架，既然他们都是科学家，他们的争吵肯定是关于科学的——关于神经科学和物理学哪个更加重要。从情感上来看，他们其实是在对他们相处的“条款”进行争吵，但是他们会通过表达对科学的看法来掩饰这个问题。在这种情况下，这个情景就会由我来编写，因为我对这个问题有自己的理论。
But in another situation, we could say we want Sheldon to be really angry about some branch of science he thinks is important, and he thinks others don’t understand. We’ll ask our science adviser, “What could that be?”
但是其他情况下，假如我们要让谢尔顿为了他认为重要的某一门学科大发脾气，而且还认为别人不懂，我们就会询问科学顾问，“这应该是个什么问题呢？”
Do you read the professional journals?
你看专业期刊吗？
No, we read Science Times. We’ll come across stuff that seems worthwhile. The particle accelerator in Switzerland, there was some worry that it would destroy the universe. We probably made some joke about that or maybe even had a little plotline about it.
不，我们看Science Times（《纽约时报》科学版——译注）。我们会偶然发现一些似乎值得谈的话题，比如有人担心瑞士的粒子加速器会摧毁宇宙。我们可能会拿这件事开玩笑，或许甚至会编一些与此相关的情节。
How did you come to do the show?
你是怎么开始参与这部电视剧的呢？
I applied for a job.
我申请了一份工作。
And ... ?
然后呢？
I’d been working in television for a number of years. I wrote a script on speculation to get a job on “Malcolm in the Middle,” which I submitted to Chuck and Bill as a sample. And they interviewed me. My spec script had two stories: one was about masturbation, and one was about game theory. Chuck was like, “Masturbation and game theory, that sounds like a good fit for ‘The Big Bang Theory.’ ”
我曾经在电视台干过一些年。我写了一个剧本，想碰碰运气加入《马尔科姆的一家》(Malcolm in the Middle)的剧组，我将剧本作为样本递交给了查克和比尔。他们面试了我，我主动提供的剧本有两个故事，一个关于自慰，一个关于博弈论。查克说，“自慰和博弈论，听起来很适合《生活大爆炸》。”
Do you get fan mail from scientists?
你有收到科学家粉丝的邮件吗？
We don’t just get mail. Scientists will come to the show and sit in the audience. We’ll often use them as extras in the background during cafeteria scenes.
不只是邮件。科学家会来到拍摄现场，坐在观众区。在拍摄一些餐厅的场景时，我们经常请他们在背景作群众演员。
Stephen Hawking came once. He was happy to portray a version of himself who was petty and childish and enjoyed humiliating Sheldon at a game of online Scrabble. He played himself as a big baby. He didn’t feel like he had to portray himself as a hero of science. That made me respect him even more, because he doesn’t feel the need to pretend to be anything.
史蒂芬·霍金(Stephen Hawking)来过一次。他非常乐意扮演一个小气、幼稚的自己，乐于在一种网络拼字游戏中羞辱谢尔顿。他将自己扮演成一个大孩子。他觉得不一定非要把自己塑造成一个科学英雄。这让我对他更增添了几分敬意，因为他觉得没必要进行伪装。
Your stories have a lot of insider jokes; there was a hilarious episode that included references to Schrödinger’s cat. How does your team know what’s funny in science?
你的故事有很多内行人才懂的笑话，有一集非常搞笑，提到了薛定谔的猫。你的团队是怎们知道科学领域中的趣事的？
I went to grad school in analytic philosophy, which is culturally very much like science. We talk to our science adviser, David Saltzberg, a physics professor at U.C.L.A. We visit various schools and labs.
我在研究生院攻读分析哲学，文化上来看和科学是十分相似的。我们会和我们的科学顾问——加州大学洛杉矶分校(UCLA)物理学教授戴维·扎尔茨伯格(David Saltzberg)讨论，还参观了很多学校和实验室。
Once we went to the control station for the Mars rover. That was the source of a number of stories for Howard.
我们曾去过火星探测器的控制台。很多有关霍华德(Howard)的故事都来源于此。
We talked with a NASA astronaut, Mike Massimino. He told us about his Italian relatives who were unimpressed that he’d gone into space. There was one relative who was, “We usually make the new guy clean the garbage truck. You shouldn’t have to go out to the space station if you’re the senior guy.” So that became the story line for Howard. He goes into space, and no one in his daily life is impressed.
我们与美国国家航空航天局(NASA)宇航员迈克·马西米诺(Mike Massimino)进行了交谈。他告诉我们，他的意大利亲友并不觉得他去过太空有什么了不起。有一名亲友说，“我们通常会让新人打扫垃圾车。如果你的级别较高，你就不用去空间站了。”这变成了霍华德的一条叙事线。他去了太空，但周边没有人觉得这有多不得了。
Do you sometimes hear from scientists who say, “Thank you for showing something about our lives”?
你们有时会听到科学家们说“谢谢你们展现了我们的生活”吗？
Oh, yeah. They’ll sometimes say that there will be a new generation of scientists 10 years from now: kids who watched the show and decided to become scientists because they liked the characters. That would be great. I think there should be more scientists and fewer lawyers. It’s better to invent a plastic airplane than to sue somebody.
哦，是的。他们有时会说，再过10年会涌现出新一代的科学家——那些看过这剧，并且因为喜欢剧中人物而决定成为科学家的孩子们。那就太棒了。我认为我们应该多出一些科学家，少一些律师。发明塑料飞机要比起诉某人强。