AMIRAM HAYARDENY’S father was a robust man with a booming voice until he developed amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, better known as Lou Gehrig’s disease. Slowly, he lost his ability to communicate and, as the disease laid waste to his body, his ability to move.
阿米拉姆·哈亚尔德尼(Amiram Hayardeny)的父亲身体强健，声如洪钟，直到他得了肌萎缩性脊髓侧索硬化症(amyotrophic lateral sclerosis)——通常称为葛雷克氏症(Lou Gehrig's disease)。慢慢地，他失去了交流能力，随着身体被这种疾病摧垮，他又失去了行动能力。
Mr. Hayardeny’s father died in 2013. A year later, Mr. Hayardeny said, a cousin his age died suddenly, leaving behind her three young children and husband.
哈亚尔德尼的父亲于2013年去世。哈亚尔德尼说，一年后，一名与他年龄相仿的表亲突然离世，留下了她的三个年幼的孩子和丈夫。
“She never made 52,” he said. “I’ll be 53 next week.”
“她还不到52岁，”他说。“我下周就53岁了。”
The events shocked Mr. Hayardeny, a technologist who lives in Seattle, into thinking about his own mortality and how he wanted to prepare a legacy for his children. He is certainly not the first man in his 50s to get his affairs in order after losing relatives or friends.
这些事让这名生活在西雅图的技术专家感到震惊，促使他考虑自己的死亡，以及他希望如何给孩子准备遗产的问题。他肯定不是50多岁的人当中，第一个在失去亲人或朋友后就安排好一切的人。
But instead of turning to the traditional estate planning strategies — wills, trusts and beneficiary designation forms that lawyers and financial planners help clients pull together — Mr. Hayardeny is using a new system called SafeBeyond that keeps written and video wishes safe and private until its users are gone or until a set time. SafeBeyond, which likens itself to Dropbox for the hereafter, is one of several similar cloud-based systems.
但哈亚尔德尼没有采用传统的遗产规划策略——律师和金融顾问帮助客户做好遗嘱、信托、受益人指定表格，而是使用了一种名为SafeBeyond的新系统，用户可以通过该系统留下书面及视频信息，秘密而安全地保留遗愿，直到用户去世或某个指定时间。SafeBeyond将自己比作是用于储存死后遗愿的Dropbox，类似于这样基于云的系统还有几个。
“I’m not particularly afraid of death or shy about discussing it,” Mr. Hayardeny said. “The way the site is put together, it kind of gives you some kind of comfort. It puts people at ease with the concept of you being gone.”
“我并不是特别害怕死亡或不愿讨论死亡，”哈亚尔德尼说。“这个网站的安排方式，算是给人某种程度的安慰，让人们接受你已经离开人世这一概念。”
Because these services are relatively new, though, they could become problematic to heirs if not used correctly, lawyers and planners said. And the nature of SafeBeyond and similar services — online and private except to those explicitly given access — also raises broader issues about digital assets in an estate.
律师及金融顾问们表示，由于这些服务相对较新，如果使用不当，可能会给继承人带来问题。SafeBeyod及类似服务——它们都是在线和保密的，除非明确允许他人进入——的性质也引发了有关遗产中的数码资产的广泛问题。
“With digital assets, who is entitled to have access is a big issue,” said Sharon Klein, managing director of family office services and wealth strategies at Wilmington Trust.
“有了数码资产后，谁有权获取就成了大问题，”威明顿信托(Wilmington Trust)家族办公室和财产策略常务董事莎伦·克雷恩(Sharon Klein)。
First, a little background about SafeBeyond. It was started by Moran Zur, whose father died when Mr. Zur was 25 and who nearly lost his wife, who was found to have advanced brain cancer in 2012.
首先简要介绍SafeBeyond的背景。该公司由莫兰·祖尔(Moran Zur)创建，他在25岁的时候失去了父亲，最近又失去了妻子。他妻子在2012年被发现脑癌晚期。
“My father was a man of advice,” he said. “You start thinking about things that I didn’t get to ask him.”
“我父亲是个曾经给我忠告的人，”他说。“你会开始思考一些没来得及问他的事情。”
When his wife’s health improved, Mr. Zur raised money for the site. He focused it not on conveying a last message but on being a bank of many emotions and advice for different times in a person’s life.
当他妻子的身体状况有所改善时，祖尔开始筹集资金创办网站。他的侧重点不是传达最后的信息，而是建立一个银行，储存很多情感及针对人一生不同阶段的建议。”
“I look at it as emotional life insurance,” he said. “We allow you to decide how you’ll be remembered.”
“我把它看作情感生活的保险，”他说。“我们让你决定如何被怀念。”
To that end, he said people need to designate a trustee for what they record or write and store in SafeBeyond. That person will have the responsibility of tracking down family and friends whose email addresses and phone numbers may have changed by the time they are supposed to receive the messages.
他表示，为了实现这个目标，人们需要指定一个受托人，管理他们在SafeBeyond储存的视频或书面信息。这个人将负责追踪家人及朋友的信息，以免到了他们应该收到相关信息的时候，他们的邮件地址和电话号码已经改变。
The site is free for now. It promises to update the technology so that today’s iPhone video doesn’t become tomorrow’s Super 8 home movie when someone receives it in the future. In the event the company fails, Mr. Zur said, it will work to find people to let them download what they stored there.
目前该网站提供免费服务。网站承诺会更新技术，以保证未来某人收到信息时，今天的iPhone视频到那时不会像超8家用录像带一样差。祖尔表示，如果公司倒闭了，他们会找到那些人，让他们下载储存在该网站的信息。
(Mr. Zur said he would make money when people needed more space, as Dropbox does, and later when the site begins selling digital estate planning tools.)
（祖尔表示，他会像Dropbox一样，在人们需要更多空间时开始赚钱，或者以后网站会出售数码遗产规划工具。）
His competitors include Incubate, which was co-founded by Michael McCluney, who lost his father when he was young and said he wished his father could have recorded advice for important moments in his life, like turning 16 or graduating from college.
他的竞争对手包括由迈克尔·麦克卢尼(Michael McCluney)联合创建的Incubate，麦克卢尼在他很小的时候就失去父亲，他表示自己希望父亲能留下影像，为他人生中重要时刻提供建议，比如满16岁的时候，或大学毕业的时候。
“Something like that would have been incredible to have gotten,” he said.
他说，“以前这种东西是难以想象的。”
Last Thanksgiving, as the site was about to go online, he recorded his grandmother sending people holiday wishes. She died this year, and he said a half-dozen people would be receiving the message from her.
去年感恩节，当该网站准备上线的时候，他记录下祖母向人们发出节日祝福的影像。祖母在今年去世，他表示会有六人收到她留下的信息。
“People recognize that this is an emotional experience we want to give,” he said.
他说，“人们认识到，这是我们希望提供的情感体验。”
While the services are intended to help people stay in their loved ones’ lives after they’re gone, more than a few people questioned whether such a message might be disturbing to the recipient.
虽然这些服务旨在帮助人们在离世后留在亲人的生活中，有不少人质疑此类信息是否可能会给接受者造成困扰。
“Some families will cherish a recording of a loved one and others are going to think it’s creepy,” said Ms. Klein, who pointed to Yahoo Ending, a service started in Japan last year to send emails to loved ones when you die — and deal with your social media assets.
“一些家庭会珍视至亲留下的录像，而其他人会认为这有些瘆人，”克莱因说，她提到了日本去年推出的一项名为“Yahoo Ending”的服务，即离世后向至亲发送邮件，处理你的社交媒体资产。
Mr. Hayardeny said he had not taken video of himself for fear it would be upsetting to his children. “My father, he was a very handsome and tall man and had his hair to the very last day,” he said. “He lost a lot of his looks, and it was terrible to watch. That was the memory I have of him.”
哈亚尔德尼表示，他自己没有拍摄视频，以免令孩子们难过。“我的父亲是一个很帅很高的男人，头发留到了最后一天，”他说。“他的容貌衰退了很多，让人不忍心看下去。这是我对他的记忆。”
Mr. Hayardeny is leaving only written messages for his family. And that may be for the best if he has an estate that his children might fight over.
哈亚尔德尼只给家人留下了书面信息。如果他有一些可能引发子女争夺的遗产，这是最佳方式。
John Dadakis, a partner at Holland & Knight, said videotaping anything meant for heirs when you’re sick could have unintended consequences, particularly if not everyone is happy with their inheritance.
霍兰&奈特律师事务所(Holland & Knight)合伙人约翰·达达基斯(John Dadakis)表示，在生病期间为继承人录制录像可能会带来意想不到的后果，特别是如果并非每个人都对自己继承的遗产满意的话。
“If a lawyer is not part of that situation and this person is going off half-baked and now all of a sudden this video surfaces in a probate contest, you have a lawyer standing there with his tongue hanging out,” Mr. Dadakis said. “Here you have this evidence that this person is half-baked and it could cause problem in any probate context.”
“如果律师没有参与，而这个人说了一些没有经过深思熟虑的话，在遗嘱认证争论中突然出现这段视频，会被律师一把抓住的，”达达基斯说。“这证明这个人考虑不周，这在任何遗嘱查验的背景下都会引发问题。”
The purpose of SafeBeyond and other such apps is to give people a method to record personal messages whenever they want. But as with other forms of technology, the law of unintended consequences reigns, which is what worries trust and estate lawyers.
SafeBeyond及其他类似应用的目标是为人们提供一种随时可以记录个人信息的方法。但就像其他技术形式一样，意外后果定律占据主导地位，这种情况令信托及房产律师感到担心
Mr. Dadakis, who was involved in the protracted legal dispute around the estate of Huguette Clark, the reclusive copper heiress who died with an estimated $300 million fortune and no direct heirs, said he could see a benefit to a video of someone lucidly telling heirs what is to be done. But, he said, there were more downsides than upsides to it.
于盖特·克拉克(Huguette Clark)的遗产纠纷旷日持久，这名铜矿女继承人死后留下了三亿美元的遗产，但她没有直接继承人，参与该案的达达基斯表示，他能看到某人通过视频明确告知继承人其安排的做法带来的好处。但他表示弊大于利。
Lawyers prefer that people use a letter of wishes to lay out more emotional messages not appropriate for a will. “People don’t want to update their will 12 times a year, so they say my personal effects are to be divided as I’ve described in my letter of wishes,” Ms. Klein said.
律师们宁愿人们利用意向书来传达不适合出现在遗嘱中的更加富有情感的信息。克莱因表示，“人们不想一年12次更新遗嘱，因此，他们会说，我的个人财产将按照意向书中的说明进行分配。”
She said these letters were also good for leaving messages about life goals to children and grandchildren, which is what SafeBeyond aims to do.
她表示，意向书也有助于留给孩子及孙辈有关生活目标的信息，这正是SafeBeyond想做的事。
Advisers said that people should be more focused on existing digital assets — from social media accounts to banking and brokerage accounts — and who will have access to them when the person who set them up is dead. Terms of service on many social media accounts state that the account will be closed when someone dies, and it may be difficult to find passwords to bank accounts. In cases when all statements are electronic, it may be hard to know if the account even exists.
顾问们表示，人们应该更加侧重于现存的数码资产——从社交媒体账户到银行及经济账户，以及谁在账户所有者死后有权获得账户信息。很多社交媒体的服务条款规定，用户去世后，其账户将被关闭，而且很难找到银行账户的密码。如果所有账单都是电子账单，那可能很难知道账户是否存在。
“Let your executor know what your valuable digital assets are, how you want them handled, provide a mechanism to get access to your passwords and advise them of services you’re using that would prohibit them from getting access,” said Russ Haft, chief digital executor at Mylennium, a company that consults with families about their digital assets.
Mylennium首席数码遗嘱执行人罗斯·哈夫特(Russ Haft)说，“让你的遗嘱执行人知道你有哪些具有价值的数码资产，你希望他们如何处理这些资产，并提供一个获取密码的途径，告知他们你用了什么服务来阻止他们获取密码。”该公司为各个家庭提供有关数码资产的咨询服务。
If they don’t, he said, their heirs may have to go to court to get access to their digital life.
他表示，如果他们不这么做，他们的继承人可能需要通过法庭获得了解其数字生活的权力。
Mr. Zur says his site is a way to help him communicate to his son. “If I die, my son will come and search the Internet and find all kinds of things about me,” he said. “Now, I’m giving people the tool of how you will be remembered by your loved ones.”
祖尔表示，他所创建的网站是一种帮助他与儿子进行交流的方式。“如果我死了，我的儿子回到网上搜索，找到各种有关我的信息，”他说。“如今，我为人们提供了一种由他们决定如何被至亲怀念的方式。”