WASHINGTON — Yascha Mounk is used to being the most pessimistic person in the room. Mr. Mounk, a lecturer in government at Harvard, has spent the past few years challenging one of the bedrock assumptions of Western politics: that once a country becomes a liberal democracy, it will stay that way.
华盛顿——雅斯查·蒙克(Yascha Mounk)一向惯于做众人之中最悲观的一个。这位哈佛大学的政府学讲师过去几年里一直在挑战西方政治学中的一个基本假设：一个国家一旦成为自由民主国家，就会保持不变。
His research suggests something quite different: that liberal democracies around the world may be at serious risk of decline.
他的研究显示出一些截然不同的东西：全世界的自由民主国家可能面临严重的衰退风险。
Mr. Mounk’s interest in the topic began rather unusually. In 2014, he published a book, “Stranger in My Own Country.” It started as a memoir of his experiences growing up as a Jew in Germany, but became a broader investigation of how contemporary European nations were struggling to construct new, multicultural national identities.
蒙克对这个话题的兴趣以一种颇不寻常的方式开始。2014年，他出版了一本名为《自己国家中的陌生人》(Stranger in My Own Country)的书。它以回忆录开始，讲述身为犹太人的他在德国长大的经历；但后面变成更广泛的调查，研究当代欧洲国家如何在建设新的、多元文化的国家身份时陷入困境。
He concluded that the effort was not going very well. A populist backlash was rising. But was that just a new kind of politics, or a symptom of something deeper?
他的结论是，这一努力的进程不是非常顺利。民粹主义的反弹正在上升。但这只是一种新的政治吗，抑或是反映了更深层次问题的症状？
To answer that question, Mr. Mounk teamed up with Roberto Stefan Foa, a political scientist at the University of Melbourne in Australia. They have since gathered and crunched data on the strength of liberal democracies.
为了回答这个问题，蒙克与澳大利亚墨尔本大学的政治学家罗伯托·史蒂芬·福阿(Roberto Stefan Foa)合作。自那之后，他们收集整理了大量关于自由民主国家强度的数据。
Their conclusion, to be published in the January issue of the Journal of Democracy, is that democracies are not as secure as people may think. Right now, Mr. Mounk said in an interview, “the warning signs are flashing red.”
他们的结论将在1月份的《民主期刊》(Journal of Democracy)上发表，文章认为，民主国家不如人们所想的那样安全。蒙克在接受采访时表示，如今，“红色警报已在闪烁”。
Political scientists have a theory called “democratic consolidation,” which holds that once countries develop democratic institutions, a robust civil society and a certain level of wealth, their democracy is secure.
政治科学中有一个名为“民主巩固”(democratic consolidation)的理论，认为国家一旦发展起民主制度、强大的民间社会与一定程度的财富，其民主环境便会稳固下来。
For decades, global events seemed to support that idea. Data from Freedom House, a watchdog organization that measures democracy and freedom around the world, shows that the number of countries classified as “free” rose steadily from the mid-1970s to the early 2000s. Many Latin American countries transitioned from military rule to democracy; after the end of the Cold War, much of Eastern Europe followed suit. And longstanding liberal democracies in North America, Western Europe and Australia seemed more secure than ever.
几十年来，各种全球事件似乎都在证明着这一想法。“自由之家”(Freedom House)是一个评估全世界民主与自由状况的监督机构，其数据显示，从1970年代中期到21世纪初，被分类为“自由”的国家数量稳步上升。许多拉丁美洲国家从军事统治转向民主；冷战结束后，东欧大部分地区也随之转向民主。北美、西欧和澳洲那些久已存在的自由民主国家似乎比以往更为稳固。
But since 2005, Freedom House’s index has shown a decline in global freedom each year. Is that a statistical anomaly, a result of a few random events in a relatively short period of time? Or does it indicate a meaningful pattern?
但自2005年以来，“自由之家”的指数每年都显示全球的自由程度在下降。这是一个统计异常吗？是几个随机事件在相对较短时间内发生的结果吗？抑或显示出一种有意义的模式？
Mr. Mounk and Mr. Foa developed a three-factor formula to answer that question. Mr. Mounk thinks of it as an early-warning system, and it works something like a medical test: a way to detect that a democracy is ill before it develops full-blown symptoms.
为了回答这个问题，蒙克和福阿制定了一个三要素公式。蒙克认为它是一种预警系统，这种方法的原理类似医学检测，能在民主政权全面爆发出各种症状之前检查出它的问题。
The first factor was public support: How important do citizens think it is for their country to remain democratic? The second was public openness to nondemocratic forms of government, such as military rule. And the third factor was whether “antisystem parties and movements” — political parties and other major players whose core message is that the current system is illegitimate — were gaining support.
第一个要素是公共支持：公民认为对他们的国家保持民主有多重要？第二个要素是公众对非民主政府形式（如军事统治）的心态有多开放。第三个要素是“反体制的党派和运动”――政党和其他政治重要参与者的核心信息认为当前体制是不合理的――是否在获得越来越多的支持。
If support for democracy was falling while the other two measures were rising, the researchers marked that country “deconsolidating.” And they found that deconsolidation was the political equivalent of a low-grade fever that arrives the day before a full-blown case of the flu.
如果对民主的支持在下降，而其他两个指标正在上升，研究者就会把这个国家标记为“解除巩固”(deconsolidating)。他们发现，用医学来打比喻的话，“解除巩固”相当于流感完全爆发前一天的低烧。
Venezuela, for instance, enjoyed the highest possible scores on Freedom House’s measures of political rights and democracy in the 1980s. But those democratic practices were not deeply rooted. During that apparent period of stability, Venezuela already scored as deconsolidating on the Mounk-Foa test.
例如，1980年代，按照“自由之家”的标准，委内瑞拉在政治权利和民主方面得分最高。但其民主做法并不是根深蒂固的。在那段看似稳定的时期，委内瑞拉已经在蒙克-福阿的测试中被算成“解除巩固”。
Since then, Venezuelan democracy has declined significantly. In 1992, a faction of the Venezuelan military loyal to Hugo Chávez attempted a coup against the democratically elected government. Mr. Chávez was elected president in 1998 on a wave of populist support, and he immediately passed a new constitution that consolidated his power. His government cracked down on dissent, imprisoned political opponents and shredded the country’s economy with a series of ill-planned economic overhauls.
从那时起，委内瑞拉民主状况显著下降。1992年，委内瑞拉军方一个忠于乌戈·查韦斯(Hugo Chávez)的派系企图对民选政府发动政变。1998年，查韦斯在民粹浪潮支持下当选总统， 之后他立即通过了一部新宪法，巩固了他自己的权力。他的政府打击异见者，监禁政治反对派，并实施一系列计划不周的经济改革，破坏了该国的经济。
Likewise, when Poland joined the European Union in 2004, it was hailed as an especially strong example of a post-Communist country making the transition to consolidated democracy. But Mr. Mounk and Mr. Foa found strong signs of deconsolidation during that period: As early as 2005, nearly 16 percent of Poles said they believed democracy was a “bad” or “fairly bad” way of running the country. By 2012, 22 percent of respondents said that they supported army rule. And in the mid-2000s, a series of antisystem parties began to gain traction in Polish politics, including Law and Justice, Self-Defense of the Republic of Poland, and the League of Polish Families.
同样，当波兰在2004年加入欧盟时，它被赞誉为后共产主义国家向巩固民主过渡的有力典范。但是蒙克和福阿在那段时期内发现了强烈的解除巩固迹象：早在2005年，近16％的波兰人说他们认为民主是一种“不好”或“相当不好”的治国方式。到2012年，22％的受访者表示支持军队统治。在2005年前后，一系列反体制的政党开始在波兰政治中获得广泛认同，包括法律与正义党(Law and Justice)，波兰共和国自卫党(Self-Defense of the Republic of Poland)和波兰家庭联盟(League of Polish Families)。
Today, that fever is starting to look a lot like the flu. Law and Justice, which won the presidency and a parliamentary majority in 2015, has systematically weakened democratic institutions.
今天，这场低烧看起来已经很像流感了。2015年获得总统席位和议会多数的法律与正义党正在系统性地削弱民主体制。
The government’s attempts to undermine the country’s constitutional tribunal, for instance, set off an investigation by the European Union. The resulting report warned that the government’s actions “endanger not only the rule of law, but also the functioning of the democratic system.”
例如，政府试图破坏该国的宪法法庭，令欧洲联盟对此展开了调查。由此产生的报告警告说，该国政府的行为不仅“危及法治，而且危及民主制度的运作。”
According to the Mounk-Foa early-warning system, signs of democratic deconsolidation in the United States and many other liberal democracies are now similar to those in Venezuela before its crisis.
根据蒙克-福阿预警系统，如今，在美国和许多其他自由民主国家，民主的解除巩固情况都类似于委内瑞拉发生危机前的迹象。
Across numerous countries, including Australia, Britain, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Sweden and the United States, the percentage of people who say it is “essential” to live in a democracy has plummeted, and it is especially low among younger generations. Support for autocratic alternatives is rising, too. Drawing on data from the European and World Values Surveys, the researchers found that the share of Americans who say that army rule would be a “good” or “very good” thing had risen to 1 in 6 in 2014, compared with 1 in 16 in 1995.
在包括澳大利亚、英国、荷兰、新西兰，瑞典和美国在内的许多国家里，说“生活在民主国家”是“必不可少”的人的百分比已经下降，在年轻的几代人中特别低。对专制政体选项的支持率也在上升。根据欧洲与世界价值观调查(European and World Values Surveys)的数据，研究人员发现，美国人认为军队统治可能会是一件“好”或“非常好”的事情的比例在2014年上升到了1/6，而在1995年是1/16。
That trend is particularly strong among young people. For instance, in a previously published paper, the researchers calculated that 43 percent of older Americans believed it was illegitimate for the military to take over if the government were incompetent or failing to do its job, but only 19 percent of millennials agreed. The same generational divide showed up in Europe, where 53 percent of older people thought a military takeover would be illegitimate, while only 36 percent of millennials agreed.
这种趋势在年轻人中特别强烈。例如，在以前发表的论文中，研究人员统计，43％的年长的美国人认为，即便政府无能或未能完成其工作，军方接手也是不合法的，但只有19％的千禧一代同意这一点。欧洲出现了同样的代际鸿沟，53％的较老一辈认为军队接管政府是非法的，而只有36％的千禧一代同意这一点。
In the United States, Donald J. Trump won the presidential election by running as an antisystem outsider. And support for antisystem populist parties in Europe, such as the National Front in France, Syriza in Greece and the Five-Star Movement in Italy, is rising.
在美国，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)作为一个反体制的局外人而赢得总统选举。而在欧洲，对反体制民粹党派的支持率也在上升，如法国的国民阵线党，希腊的激进左翼联盟(Syriza)和意大利的五星运动(Five-Star Movement)。
Of course, this is just one paper. And the researchers’ approach, like all data-driven social science, has limitations. It is only as good as the survey data that underlies it, for instance, and it does not take into account other factors that could be important to overall stability, such as economic growth. At least one prominent political scientist argues that Mr. Mounk’s and Mr. Foa’s data is not as worrying as they believe it to be.
当然，这只是一篇论文。和所有偏重数据的社会科学一样，研究人员的方法也有其局限性。例如，它其实只是相当于问题起因的调查数据，而且没有考虑到经济增长等其他对整体稳定性而言可能非常重要的因素。至少有一位著名的政治学家认为蒙克和福阿的数据并不像他们认为的那么令人担忧。
Also, of course, correlation is not the same as causation. Although the researchers found a relationship between deconsolidation and democratic instability, that is not the same thing as proving the root causes of either factor.
当然，相关性也并不等同于因果关系。虽然研究人员发现解除巩固与民主不稳定性之间的关系，但不等于证明了二者产生的根本原因。
“That’s only one measure,” Mr. Mounk acknowledged of his own research. “But,” he added after a pause, “it should have us worried.”
蒙克承认自己的研究“只是一个方面的测量”。“但是，”他顿了一下，然后表示，“它应该引起我们的担心。”
He fears that the minutiae of politics can easily distract from these more fundamental dangers. “It’s not just about what Trump will do to the E.P.A.,” he said, referring to the Environmental Protection Agency. “It really is that Trump may try to undermine liberal democracy in the United States.”
他担心政治的细枝末节可以轻易令人们分心，不去关注这些更重大的危险。“这不只是关于特朗普会对EPA做些什么，”他说， EPA在这里是指美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)。“真正的问题是，特朗普可能试图破坏美国的自由民主。”
“Look, this stuff is already going on in other places,” Mr. Mounk added. “If there’s one task that we have as journalists, as academics, as thinkers, it’s to drive the stakes of this home for people.”
“看，这一套已经在其他地方开始运行了，”蒙克补充说。 “如果身为记者、学者和思想家的我们有什么责任的话，那就是把这种风险向人们讲清楚。”