Donald Trump's sweep through seven states on Super Tuesday stalled the “Never Trump” movement that has been percolating in corners of the Republican Party, leaving the Manhattan businessman's remaining rivals grasping for hope that they could defy history and halt his march to the presidential nomination.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)在超级星期二赢下七个州，打击了在共和党内部扩散的“绝不要特朗普”(Never Trump)运动，致使这名曼哈顿商人剩余的对手急切地希望他们可以战胜历史规律，阻止特朗普获得总统提名。
After months of carefully plotting their primary state strategies, campaigns were left crunching numbers Wednesday morning and dusting off history lessons about contested conventions and arcane ballot rules.
在花了好多个月的时间精心制定初选策略后，各竞选团队周三早上却只能埋头挖掘数据，把以前的有关竞争激烈的共和党大会及深奥投票规则的历史教训抛诸脑后。
On the face of it, campaigning proceeded as usual Wednesday, with Sens. Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio set to touch down in Kansas and Michigan for rallies; Kansas holds its caucuses Saturday and Michigan has a primary Tuesday. But the race was again upended after an evening when Trump gained still more momentum amid record Republican turnout, while Cruz stole some of Rubio's recent thunder with wins in Texas, Oklahoma and Alaska.
从表面来看，周三的竞选活动一切如常，参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)和马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)准备到堪萨斯州和密歇根州参加集会；堪萨斯州周六举行预选会，密歇根州则在下周二举行初选。但在共和党取得创纪录投票人数的周二，特朗普的势头有增无减，而克鲁兹在德克萨斯州、俄克拉何马州和阿拉斯加州获胜，抢走了卢比奥最近的一些风头。经过这一晚，这场选战再次被颠覆。
Although the delegate hauls were still being counted, Trump was leading the Republican pack with 316 on Wednesday, followed by Cruz with 226 and Rubio with 106. Trailing them were Gov. John R. Kasich with 25 and Ben Carson with eight. A candidate must get 1,237 delegates to capture the nomination.
虽然代表票数仍在统计当中，特朗普在周三已获316票，领跑共和党初选，克鲁兹和卢比奥位居其后，分别获得226票和106票。接下来是获得25票的俄亥俄州州长约翰·R·卡西奇(John R. Kasich)和获得8票的本·卡森(Ben Carson)。候选人必须获得1237张代表票，才会确保赢得提名。
For Rubio, the Florida senator who has managed only one victory, in Minnesota, the challenge remains how to shake off the “loser” label that now haunts him. In the wake of a disappointing night, he did his best to look ahead with confidence and said that his newly aggressive approach of standing up to Trump was showing signs of being effective.
来自佛罗里达州的联邦参议员卢比奥只赢下了明尼苏达州。对他来说，挑战依旧是如何摆脱目前困扰他的“失败者”标签。在经历了一个令人失望的夜晚之后，他尽了最大努力来鼓足信心面对未来，声称他新近采用的强势对抗特朗普的方式在展示出发挥效力的迹象。
“I'm happy to be an underdog,” Rubio, who has argued that he could have won more states if the field of five candidates was less crowded, wrote in an email to supporters Wednesday. “We're excited to earn a victory in Florida in a couple weeks, and continue unmasking Donald Trump for the con artist he is all across the country.”
“我很庆幸自己处于劣势，”卢比奥周三给支持者发送邮件称。“我们很兴奋，准备赢下两周之后佛罗里达州举行的初选，继续在全美各地揭下唐纳德·特朗普的骗子面具。”卢比奥辩称，如果不是有五名候选人，他本可以拿下更多的州。
But with just one victory under his belt, Rubio faces an uphill climb convincing anyone that he is the strongest candidate to dislodge Trump, and the calls for him to drop out could soon grow louder. Some political analysts say Kasich's presence in the race has held Rubio back, cutting into his delegate count, but the Ohio governor has vowed to make his home state a last stand March 15, when Ohioans vote. Meanwhile, many wonder why Carson fights on, despite his negligible gains.
由于仅获得一场胜利，卢比奥面临一项艰巨任务——说服大家相信他是最有可能击败特朗普的候选人——而且要求他退出的声音可能会越来越大。一些政治分析人士表示，卡西奇的存在抑制了卢比奥，蚕食了他的代表票数，但担任俄亥俄州州长的卡西奇发誓要在3月15日家乡举行初选时做最后一搏。与此同时，很多人不明白卡森为何继续参与竞争，尽管他的票数可以忽略不计。
After a Senate career and presidential campaign powered in large measure by attacks against the leaders of his party, Cruz emerged from Super Tuesday with his own message for Republicans: Like it or not, I'm your last, best hope against Trump. That sentiment was also directed at his remaining opponents. Asked on CNN if Rubio should leave the race, Cruz was happy to offer a gentle nudge.
克鲁兹的参议员生涯及总统竞选活动，在很大程度上由抨击所在政党的领袖推动。超级星期二过后，他向共和党人发出了自己的信号：不管喜欢与否，我是你们打败特朗普的最后希望，也是最大希望。这一信号也直指他的剩余对手。接受CNN采访被问及卢比奥是否应该退出时，克鲁兹略有推波助澜之意。
“I think every candidate is going to have to look at this, prayerfully consider it,” he said. “And I do believe the other candidates are interested in this country, are putting this country first.”
“我觉得每一名候选人都需要考虑这个问题，要认真地考虑，”他说。“我相信其他候选人都在乎这个国家，都将国家放在首位。”
At least a few establishment Republicans seem inclined to listen to Cruz's case that, having won in four states, only he has shown an ability to outmaneuver. Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who joked recently about murdering Cruz on the Senate floor, told CBS News that supporting his little-loved colleague may be the Republican Party's only viable option.
至少有几名共和党建制派成员似乎倾向于考虑克鲁兹的言论，即他已经拿下四个州，只有他有能力胜过特朗普。来自南卡罗莱纳州的共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)近期还在参议院会场开玩笑要杀了克鲁兹，如今却对CBS新闻频道(CBS News)表示，支持这名不受欢迎的同僚或许是共和党唯一可行的选择。
“We may be in a position where we have to rally around Ted Cruz as the only way to stop Trump,” he said. “And I'm not so sure that would work.”
“我们目前身处的境地，可能是我们不得不齐心协力帮助特德·克鲁兹，这是阻止特朗普的唯一途径，”他说。“我也不确定这是否会奏效。”
It remains unclear, however, how widely that sentiment is shared.
不过，目前有多少人认同这种观点还是未知数。
“For many establishment Republicans, they would support Donald Trump over someone like Ted Cruz,” said Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist and former congressional spokesman. “That's how much they don't like Ted Cruz and how much he has soured the well with them.”
“对于很多共和党建制派来说，他们宁可支持唐纳德·特朗普，也不要特德·克鲁兹这样的人，”共和党策略师、前国会发言人罗恩·邦让(Ron Bonjean)说。“这说明他们对特德·克鲁兹深恶痛绝，而克鲁兹与他们的关系糟糕透顶。”
Democrats seemed to be basking in the disarray that engulfed Republicans on Wednesday. The Democratic National Committee wondered aloud if more Republican candidates would drop out at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Maryland later this week.
周三的时候，民主党人似乎对共和党人陷入混乱感到颇为开心。民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)公开提出，是否会有更多共和党候选人在保守派政治行动大会(Conservative Political Action Conference)上退出。该会议将于本周晚些时候在马里兰举行。
“It's clear after last night's results that the Republican establishment must accept Trump's inevitable victory” in the nominating contest, said Mark Paustenbach, a spokesman for the DNC.
民主党全国委员会发言人马克·保斯登巴赫(Mark Paustenbach)说，“昨晚的结果说明，共和党建制派必须接受特朗普不可避免地会（在提名竞赛中）取得胜利的事实。”