HOSPET, India — After a decade of rapid economic growth, India is in the midst of a sudden swoon. The stock market has fallen, the value of the rupee has plunged, and India’s longtime hope of catching up to China appears increasingly distant.
印度霍斯佩特——在经历高速发展的10年后，印度经济现在突然陷入停滞之中。股市下跌，卢比贬值，长期以来赶超中国的希望似乎越来越渺茫。
But some prominent Indian economists believe the recent slowdown may actually be a good thing for the country. They argue that much of India’s recent boom was fueled by a toxic mix of political corruption and crony capitalism that some feared would spiral out of control.
但一些知名的印度经济学家认为，最近印度经济放缓或许实际上对印度是一件好事。他们辩称，印度最近的这次繁荣很大程度上是由政治腐败与裙带资本主义的相互勾结推动的，一些人担心这种情况会失控。
As in Russia, Indian oligarchs with political connections have made vast fortunes while hundreds of millions remained desperately poor. India has 55 billionaires, second-most in Asia, even though more than half of its citizens have no access to toilets. India’s democracy seemed to be offering many of its people little help or hope.
就像在俄罗斯一样，印度那些有政治背景的商业大亨已经赚取了大量财富，而与此同时，这个国家仍有几亿人处于极其贫困的状态。印度有55名亿万富翁，在亚洲排第二，尽管该国超过一半的民众没用上抽水马桶。印度的民主制度对一部分人民来说似乎没带来什么帮助或希望。
“For years, I have been terrified that India was being captured by the oligarchs,” said Ajay Shah, a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy in New Delhi. “I am excited about the past few weeks because I think this period shows the resilience of Indian democracy.”
“多年来，我一直害怕印度被商业大亨掌控，”新德里国家公共财政与政策研究所(National Institute of Public Finance and Policy)教授阿贾伊·沙阿(Ajay Shah)说。“过去几周的情况让我感到非常兴奋，因为我认为这一时期展示了印度民主的适应力。”
Mr. Shah called the last 10 years of rapid economic growth a “corruption bubble,” and he and others said the price of India’s present political and economic correction would be enormous, with growth in the next five years likely to be much less than in the last 10 years.
沙阿称过去10年经济的快速发展是一个“腐败泡沫”，他和其他一些人表示，印度目前的政治和经济倒退代价是巨大的，未来五年的经济发展速度可能要比过去10年慢得多。
Yet, even those who have benefited from the recent corruption-fueled boom and are now suffering with its collapse are glad to see a crackdown.
然而，连那些从近年由腐败推动的繁荣发展中获益、目前因泡沫破灭而陷入困境的人都很乐于看到印度开展打击行动。
Three years ago, Hospet, a midsize mining town in the heart of what in medieval times was the Vijayanagara Empire, was thriving thanks to an illegal mining bonanza. A local kingmaker had used political connections and bribes to avoid cumbersome and expensive permit processes. He opened scores of illegal mines and greatly increased production. Thousands of ore-laden trucks rumbled daily through Hospet’s streets. Much of the town’s populace was either directly or indirectly on the take. Times were good.
霍斯佩特是位于中世纪时期毗奢耶那伽罗帝国(Vijayanagara Empire)中心地带的中型矿业城镇。三年前，由于非法采矿的兴旺，霍斯佩特一片繁荣。当地一个手眼通天的人物曾利用政治关系，通过贿赂来避开繁杂且费用高昂的审批程序。他开采了很多非法矿场，大幅增加产量。每天都有数千辆装满矿石的卡车隆隆驶过霍斯佩特的街道。镇上许多居民都或直接或间接地拿着他给的好处。那是一段好时光。
Then India’s creaky justice system began to swing into action. Mining was stopped. The kingmaker, G. Janardhana Reddy, was arrested, and the local economy tanked.
之后，印度陈旧的司法系统开始积极采取行动。采矿业陷入停顿。那个大人物G·贾纳尔达纳·雷迪(G. Janardhana Reddy)被逮捕，当地经济遭受重创。
But, remarkably, in dozens of man-on-the-street interviews, not one person in Hospet said the corruption should have been allowed to continue.
但值得注意的是，在霍斯佩特进行的数十次街头采访当中，没人表示应该允许腐败继续下去。
E. Vishwanath, owner of V.S.R. Minerals, was typical. Three years ago, he owned 10 dump trucks and leased 1,000 more and made nearly $2,000 a month, a high salary in India. He owned a car, gave his wife heavy gold chains and invited as many as 200 people to catered birthday parties for his young daughters.
VSR矿场(V.S.R. Minerals)的所有者E·维什瓦纳特(E. Vishwanath)是一个典型的例子。三年前，他拥有10辆自卸卡车，另外租了1000多辆，每月大约赚2000美元（约合12238元人民币），这在印度属于高薪。他有一辆汽车，给妻子买了沉甸甸的金链子，请了200多人参加其年幼的女儿们的生日宴会。
Since the change, banks have repossessed his trucks and he has been forced to sell his car and his wife’s jewelry. His daughters’ birthday parties are now small family affairs.
自从情况发生变化后，银行收回了他的卡车，他被迫出售自己的汽车以及妻子的珠宝。女儿的生日宴会现在变成了家庭小事。
“We were very happy then. We were spending and enjoying life,” Mr. Vishwanath said. “Now, it’s totally nil.”
“那时我们非常开心。我们享受生活。”维什瓦纳特说。“现在，那种日子已经不复存在。”
But instead of blaming judges for ending the boom, Mr. Vishwanath blamed corrupt politicians for making it too frothy.
但维什瓦纳特没有指责法官终结了繁荣景象，而是指责腐败的政客给经济带来太多泡沫。
“I think we have to totally stop the corruption,” Mr. Vishwanath said. “If it had been regulated, I would still be in business.”
“我觉得我们应该完全杜绝腐败现象。”维什瓦纳特说。“如果当初有监管，我现在也不至于没生意做。”
Kiran Kumar, manager of the Krishna Palace hotel, had much the same reaction. During the boom, his hotel was bursting with steel and mining executives from China and Australia, his banquet facilities were booked months ahead of time, and he always sold out his supplies of Johnnie Walker Black Label whiskey.
克里希纳宫酒店(Krishna Palace)经理基兰·库马尔(Kiran Kumar)有着几乎相同的反应。在经济繁荣时期，该酒店住满了来自中国和澳大利亚的钢铁、矿业公司高管。宴会场所需要提前数月预定，而尊尼获加黑牌威士忌常常售罄。
Now, his hotel’s occupancy and room rates are half what they were, his restaurant and banquet facilities are largely empty, and almost no one drinks Johnnie Walker anymore.
如今，该酒店的租用率和入住率减半，餐厅及宴会场所多半处于空置状态，几乎没人再喝尊尼获加了。
Despite the hardship, he is passionately against corruption. This year, he paid a bribe to get his 4-year-old son into a good school, an indignity that outraged him. “I know I benefited from corruption, but I’m still against it, and everyone else in India is, too,” he said.
尽管处境艰难，他还是强烈支持反腐行动。今年，他为了让四岁的儿子进入更好的学校而进行贿赂，这种有伤尊严的行为让他感到愤怒。他说，“我知道我因为腐败而获益，但我仍然反对这种现象，其他印度人也是如此。”
Sourindra Banerjee, an assistant professor of marketing at the University of Warwick in Britain, said corruption had been more acceptable in India when its economy had been small and closed. But now that India has entered the global market, expectations both inside and outside India have changed. “Foreign investors won’t stand for the kind of corruption that has always been fairly common in Indian companies,” Mr. Banerjee said.
英国华威大学(University of Warwick)市场营销学助理教授苏里达·班纳吉(Sourindra Banerjee)表示，当印度经济发展规模较小，而且处于封闭状态时，腐败现象在印度更为民众所接受。但如今，印度已经进入全球市场，国内外对它的期望发生了变化。班纳吉说，“外国投资商不会容忍印度公司中非常常见的腐败现象。”
Corruption is not India’s only problem, of course. A tidal shift in global money flow resulting from improving economic conditions in the United States has hurt many emerging market currencies, including those of Brazil, Turkey, Indonesia and South Africa. But India has been among the hardest hit.
当然，腐败不是印度的唯一问题。美国改善经济状况的举措导致全球资金流向出现潮汐般的转变，致使巴西、土耳其、印度尼西亚及南非等很多新兴市场的货币贬值。而印度属于受冲击最严重的国家之一。
And within India, Hospet’s dilemma is not unique. Similar corruption-fueled mining booms and busts have affected Goa and states in India’s east. As a result, India’s iron ore production dropped 36 percent in the past three years to 140 million tons from 219 million tons.
在印度国内，霍斯佩特所面临困境并非特例。同样由腐败推动的矿业繁荣和萧条已经对果阿邦及印度东部各邦产生了影响。其结果是，印度的铁矿石产量在过去三年里减少了36%，从2.19亿吨降至1.4亿吨。
Whether India will succeed in squelching its endemic corruption is far from certain, said Swaminathan Aiyar, a research fellow at the Cato Institute in Washington. Instead, corruption may simply become less apparent, he said.
华盛顿加图研究所(Cato Institute)的研究员斯瓦米纳坦·艾亚尔(Swaminathan Aiyar)表示，印度在打击地方腐败方面能否取得成功，目前下定论还为时过早。他说，腐败现象可能只是变得不那么明显。
Mr. Aiyar noted that next year’s national elections are expected to be the most expensive in history. Those expenses are largely borne by under-the-table payments from Indian oligarchs, who will expect a return for their investments.
艾亚尔指出，明年的全国大选预计会是史上最昂贵的选举。这些费用大部分是印度商业大亨暗中支付的资金，这样的投资他们是期待有回报的。
“Legislation is bought by bribery, and at this point I see no politicians who are truly wanting to crack down on one another,” Mr. Aiyar said. “If you really want to change this, you need to overhaul the whole system.”
“立法机构也收受贿赂，被人收买。此时此刻，我觉得没有哪个政治人物真的想要互相打压，”艾亚尔说。“如果你真的想改变这种情况，你需要对整个系统进行全面改革。”