By the time a poor child is 1 year old, she has most likely already fallen behind middle-class children in her ability to talk, understand and learn. The gap between poor children and wealthier ones widens each year, and by high school it has become a chasm. American attempts to close this gap in schools have largely failed, and a consensus is starting to build that these attempts must start long before school — before preschool, perhaps even before birth.
当一个出生贫寒的宝宝年满一周岁时，在说话、理解和学习能力方面，她可能已经全面落后于出生中产阶层的孩子。穷孩子和富孩子之间的鸿沟在逐年拉宽，到了高中阶段，鸿沟就将成为深渊。美国人试图在学校弥合这道裂痕，但这种尝试总的来说完全失败了，现在一种共识在逐渐形成：早在孩子上学前——早在他们进学前班甚至出生前，就该开始这种尝试。
There is no consensus, however, about what form these attempts should take, because there is no consensus about the problem itself. What is it about poverty that limits a child’s ability to learn? Researchers have answered the question in different ways: Is it exposure to lead? Character issues like a lack of self-control or failure to think of future consequences? The effects of high levels of stress hormones? The lack of a culture of reading?
不过，对于应采取哪些形式的尝试，人们仍未达成共识，这是因为对于问题本身现在也并未达成共识。贫穷会怎样限制一个孩子学习的能力？研究人员们已经用不同的方式来解读这个问题：是因为孩子接触了铅？是因为个性问题，比如缺乏自制或无法理解行为带来的后果？是因为压力荷尔蒙过多而带来的影响？是因为缺乏读书的环境？
Another idea, however, is creeping into the policy debate: that the key to early learning is talking — specifically, a child’s exposure to language spoken by parents and caretakers from birth to age 3, the more the better. It turns out, evidence is showing, that the much-ridiculed stream of parent-to-child baby talk — Feel Teddy’s nose! It’s so soft! Cars make noise — look, there’s a yellow one! Baby feels hungry? Now Mommy is opening the refrigerator! — is very, very important. (So put those smartphones away!)
不过，现在另外一种想法在渐渐潜入政策讨论的范畴：那就是早期学习的关键在于说话——具体而言，孩子从出生到三岁时，听到父母或照看者说的话越多，效果就越好。有证据表示，父母给孩子说的那些听来非常搞笑的话——摸摸泰迪熊熊的鼻子！好软好软！小汽车嘀嘀嘀，看，这辆车车是黄色的！宝宝肚子饿了吗？妈咪现在就把冰箱打开哦！——实际上非常非常重要。（所以，把智能手机拿开吧！）
The idea has been successfully put into practice a few times on a small scale, but it is about to get its first large-scale test, in Providence, R.I., which last month won the $5 million grand prize in Bloomberg Philanthropies’ Mayors Challenge, beating 300 other cities for best new idea. In Providence, only one in three children enter school ready for kindergarten reading. The city already has a network of successful programs in which nurses, mentors, therapists and social workers regularly visit pregnant women, new parents and children in their homes, providing medical attention and advice, therapy, counseling and other services. Now Providence will train these home visitors to add a new service: creating family conversation.
这个想法已经在小规模验证了几次，而今即将在罗德岛州的普罗维登斯进行首个大规模测试，该市上月击败了其他300座城市，以这个绝妙想法赢取了500万美元的布隆伯格慈善市长奖(Bloomberg Philanthropies’ Mayors Challenge)。在普罗维登斯市，每三个入读幼儿园的孩子里，只有一个对阅读做好了准备。这座城市已经建立了一个成功的项目网络，护士、导师、治疗师和社工会定期访问孕妇、新父母和家中的孩子，进行医护服务，提供建议、治疗、咨询及其他帮助。现在普罗维登斯正在对这些工作人员进行训练，让他们掌握一项新服务：创造家庭谈话氛围。
 The Providence Talks program will be based on research by Betty Hart and Todd R. Risley at the University of Kansas, who in 1995 published a book, “Meaningful Differences in the Everyday Experience of Young American Children.” (see here for a summary.) Hart and Risley were studying how parents of different socioeconomic backgrounds talked to their babies. Every month, the researchers visited the 42 families in the study and recorded an hour of parent-child interaction. They were looking for things like how much parents praised their children, what they talked about, whether the conversational tone was positive or negative. Then they waited till the children were 9, and examined how they were doing in school. In the meantime, they transcribed and analyzed every word on the tapes — a process that took six years. “It wasn’t until we’d collected our data that we realized that the important variable was how much talking the parents were doing,” Risley told an interviewer later.
这个所谓的“普罗维登斯谈话”(Providence Talks)项目，其理论基础是堪萨斯大学(University of Kansas)的贝蒂·哈特和托德·R·里斯雷(Todd R. Risley)在1995年出版的著作《美国儿童日常体验中意义深远的差距》（Meaningful Differences in the Everyday Experience of Young American Children，点击此处阅读书摘）。哈特和里斯雷当年研究的是来自不同社会经济背景的父母会如何跟他们的宝宝谈话。每个月，研究者都会造访参加试验的42户家庭，并录下一小时亲子互动的内容。他们要从中了解这些问题：父母有多少次表扬了子女，他们之间谈些什么，谈话的基调是积极的还是消极的。接着，等到受访的孩子长到九岁时，他们会了解这些孩子在学校的表现。与此同时，他们记录并分析了录下来的每一个词——这个过程就花费了六年之久。“直到我们完成数据收集工作时，这才意识到不同的父母跟孩子对话的单词量构成了巨大的差异，”里斯雷后来在接受采访时这样说。
All parents gave their children directives like “Put away your toy!” or “Don’t eat that!” But interaction was more likely to stop there for parents on welfare, while as a family’s income and educational levels rose, those interactions were more likely to be just the beginning.
所有家长都会给孩子下达指令性的要求，比如“把玩具拿开！”或“这东西别吃！”但是，对于那些领救济金的家长来说，与子女之间的沟通也许就止于此了，而家庭收入和教育程度越高，互动就越有可能会进一步进行下去。
The disparity was staggering. Children whose families were on welfare heard about 600 words per hour. Working-class children heard 1,200 words per hour, and children from professional families heard 2,100 words. By age 3, a poor child would have heard 30 million fewer words in his home environment than a child from a professional family. And the disparity mattered: the greater the number of words children heard from their parents or caregivers before they were 3, the higher their IQ and the better they did in school. TV talk not only didn’t help, it was detrimental.
两者之间的差别令人惊异。那些靠救济金度日的家庭，孩子每小时只能听到约600个单词。工薪阶层家庭的孩子每小时听到1200个单词，而父母是专业人士的孩子，每小时可听到2100个单词。到了三岁时，出身贫寒的孩子相比出身专业人士家庭的孩子，在家庭环境中要少听到3000万个单词。而这种差别至关重要：在三岁前，孩子从父母或抚养人那里听到的单词数目越多，其智商就越高，在学校的表现也越好。听电视上的人说话则是有害而无益的。
Hart and Risley later wrote that children’s level of language development starts to level off when it matches that of their parents — so a language deficit is passed down through generations. They found that parents talk much more to girls than to boys (perhaps because girls are more sociable, or because it is Mom who does most of the care, and parents talk more to children of their gender). This might explain why young, poor boys have particular trouble in school. And they argued that the disparities in word usage correlated so closely with academic success that kids born to families on welfare do worse than professional-class children entirely because their parents talk to them less. In other words, if everyone talked to their young children the same amount, there would be no racial or socioeconomic gap at all. (Some other researchers say that while word count is extremely important, it can’t be the only factor.)
哈特和里斯雷后来在研究中写道，孩子的语言发育水平一旦开始与父母的水平持平，就开始维持在一条水平线上——所以语言的缺陷会世代传递下去。他们发现父母对女儿说的话要比对儿子多（这也许是因为女孩子更擅长交际，或者是因为妈妈承担着养育孩子的大部分工作，而家长倾向于跟同性别的孩子说更多话）。这或许可以解释，为什么那些出身贫寒的男孩子在学校里碰到的麻烦格外多。这两位研究者还认为，语言使用跟学业之间有着极其紧密的联系，来自领救济金家庭的孩子成绩远比出身专业人士家庭的孩子差，这完全是因为父母跟子女说的话太少。换句话说，如果人人都能跟家中的幼儿说等量的话语，就不会存在任何种族或社会经济方面的鸿沟了。（也有些研究者说，尽管说话量极其重要，但并非唯一因素。）
While we do know that richer, more educated parents talk much more to their children than poorer and less educated ones, we don’t know exactly why. A persuasive answer comes from Meredith Rowe, now an assistant professor at the University of Maryland. She found that poor women were simply unaware that it was important to talk more to their babies — no one had told them about this piece of child development research. Poorer mothers tend to depend on friends and relatives for parenting advice, who may not be up on the latest data. Middle-class mothers, on the other hand, get at least some of their parenting information from books, the Internet and pediatricians. Talking to baby has become part of middle-class culture; it seems like instinct, but it’s not.
尽管我们知道，较为富有、教育程度较高的父母比起较穷、教育程度较低的父母，跟孩子说话更多，但个中原因并不清楚。马里兰大学(University of Maryland)的副教授梅瑞狄思·罗维(Meredith Rowe)给出了一个有说服力的回答。她发现那些家境贫寒的女性根本不知道跟宝宝多讲话有多重要——没人告诉她们这个重要的儿童发育研究报告。较贫困的妈妈往往会通过亲友来寻求育儿方面的建议，而她们的亲友并不会提供最新鲜的研究数据。而中产阶级的妈妈们则不一样，她们至少可以通过图书、互联网和期刊来得到部分育儿资讯。跟宝宝说话已经成为了中产阶级文化的一部分；它看似是一种本能，时则不然。
If you haven’t heard of Hart and Risley’s work, you are not alone — and you may be wondering why. These findings should have created a policy whirlwind: Here was a revolutionary way to reduce inequities in school achievement that seemed actually possible. How hard could it be to persuade poor parents to talk to their children more?
如果你从未读过哈特和里斯雷的著作，还有人和你一样——你也许会想，这是为什么？他们的发现原本应该制造一场政策旋风：它提供了一种革命性的方式来减少学业表现的不平等现象，而这种方式看来是切实可行的。说服贫穷的父母多跟家里的宝宝说说话，这何难之有？
Very hard, it turned out — because there was no practical way to measure how much parents talk. Each hour of recording took many hours to transcribe and classify: to count the words uttered near a child and attribute them to a parent, the main child, a sibling, someone else or a TV. The cost was prohibitive.
结果人们发现，这真的非常困难——因为找不到一种实用的方法来衡量父母究竟说了多少话。每一个小时的录音都需要花费数小时来记录整理：要区分在孩子身边冒出来的一句话究竟是父母，是孩子本人，是孩子的兄弟姐妹，是家中别的人，还是电视里说的，并要数清说了多少个词。这实在是所费不赀。
“The only thing researchers could do was to ask the parent if they were talking a lot,” said Jill Gilkerson, the language research director of the Lena Research Foundation, which develops technology for the study and treatment of language delay. “But you need an objective evaluation. Asking anyone to observe their own behavior with no reference point is completely useless.” Without measurement, parents who did try new things couldn’t know whether they were helpful. Hart and Risley’s research languished.
“研究人员能做的唯一一件事，是问家长，他们是不是说了很多话，”研发治疗语言发育迟缓技术的莉娜研究基金(Lena Research Foundation)语言研究主管吉尔·吉尔科森(Jill Gilkerson)说，“但你需要一个客观的评价。让人们在没有任何参照点的情况下去观察自己的行为，这是完全没有意义的。”而在没有客观衡量标准的情况下，那些确实进行了新的尝试的家长，也就无从了解这些办法是否有用。如此一来，哈特和里斯雷的研究也就丧失了活力。
What has revived it is the technology and measurement practices developed by Lena, which stands for Language Environment Analysis. A child wears clothing with a special pocket for a voice recorder that can unobtrusively record 16 continuous hours — plenty of time for the family to forget it’s there and converse normally. The analysis is done by speech-recognition software, which can count and source words uttered, count conversational turns (one party says something and the other responds) and weed out background noise and TV. For privacy, the recorder can encrypt the actual speech and delete the speech after it is counted. And a family can hit the “erase” button whenever it wants.
莉娜（Lena指代的是Language Environment Analysis，即语言环境分析）研究基金研发的技术和测量方法，让两位研究者的发现重获活力。孩子穿上一件有特制口袋的衣服，口袋里放了一个不易察觉的录音机，可以连续录16小时——这个时间长度足以让家人忘了录音机的存在，进行正常交谈。语音识别软件进行接下来的分析，这款软件能甄别并计算说话的字数，计算对谈频次（一方说了什么，另一方回应），并过滤背景噪声和电视声。在保护隐私方面，录音机可将谈话加密，在数完说话字数后删除对话，而且家人可以在需要的时候按下“删除”按钮。
Lena’s system came out five years ago, and is now being used in about 200 universities and research hospitals — with deaf children, autistic children and children developing normally. The first studies are only now being published.
莉娜的系统在五年前应运而生，而今已在约200所大学和研究型医院中使用——使用者包括失聪儿童、孤独症儿童和其他发育正常的儿童。该系统的首批研究报告现在开始陆续发表。
The studies most relevant to Providence Talks come from two researchers. Gilkerson gave the recorder to 120 families, who used it and viewed the reports once a week for 10 weeks. Of those families, 27 started out below the baseline. Even with no coaching at all, over the 10 weeks their daily word average rose from about 8,000 to about 13,000 — an increase of 55 percent. (The paper was presented at a conference, but not yet published.)
与“普罗维登斯谈话”项目联系最为紧密的研究，是分别由两位研究者进行的。吉尔科森将录音机分发给了120个家庭，他们使用该仪器，并在接下来十周里每周看一次报告。在这些家庭中，有27户收入低于社会基线水平。在没有予以辅导的情况下，在十周测试里，他们的日均谈话字数从约8000个增长到1.3万个——增幅为55%。（该研究已在一次会议上发布，但并未在期刊上发表。）
More recently, Dana Suskind, a pediatric cochlear implant surgeon at the University of Chicago who founded the school’s Thirty Million Words project, did a study with 17 nannies in Chicago. Each attended a workshop on the importance of talk, strategies for increasing it, and how to use the Lena recorder. Then they used it once a week for six weeks. Suskind found (pdf) that the nannies increased the number of words they used by 32 percent and the number of conversational turns by 25 percent.
一项更新的研究则由达娜·苏斯金德(Dana Suskind)完成，她是芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的儿科人工耳蜗植入医生，创立了该大学的“3000万词项目”(Thirty Million Words project)，受试者是芝加哥的17个保姆。这些保姆参加了一个讲习班，了解讲话的重要性和增加说话量的方法，以及如何使用莉娜的录音机。接着她们在六周里，每周使用一次录音机。苏斯金德发现(PDF)，保姆们说话的单词量增长了32%，对谈频次量增长了25%。
Suskind has also done a randomized controlled trial with low-income mothers on Chicago’s South Side — not yet published, but with good results: she said that parents asked if they could keep getting reports on their number of words even after the study finished.
苏斯金德还进行了一次随机对照试验，受试者是芝加哥南城的低收入母亲们，文章尚未发表，但取得了不错的结果：她说在试验已经结束时，家长们还问她，能否继续得到有关说话词汇量的报告。
All these studies were small, short-term and limited in scope. “One thing is to say we can change adult language behavior,” Suskind said. “Another thing is to show that it is sustainable, and that it impacts child outcomes.”
以上这些都是小型、短期、范围受限的试验。苏斯金德说：“说我们能改变成人语言行为是一回事，而证明这种改变可持续、并能影响孩子的前程，这就是另一回事了。”
Providence has the money to be more ambitious. The city plans to begin enrolling families in January, 2014, and hopes to eventually reach about 2,000 new families each year, said Mayor Angel Taveras. It will most likely work with proven home-visitation programs like the Nurse-Family Partnership. The visitors will show poor families with very young children how to use the recorders, and ask them to record one 16-hour day each month.
普罗维登斯市有了财力支持，现在目标可以放得更远大些。据市长安赫尔·塔维拉斯(Angel Taveras)介绍，该市计划在2014年1月征募参试家庭，希望未来每年可新招募2000户家庭。项目较有可能跟以往已证明成功的家居访问项目，比如“护士-家庭伙伴”(Nurse-Family Partnership)合作开展。来家庭拜访的工作人员需要向育有幼儿的贫穷家庭演示录音机的操作方法，并请他们在每个月里抽一天时间，录16小时音。
Every month they will return to share information about the results and specific strategies for talking more: how do you tell your baby about your day? What’s the best way to read to your toddler? They will also talk about community resources, like read-aloud day at the library. And they will work with the family to set goals for next month. The city also hopes to recruit some of the mothers and fathers as peer educators.
每个月，工作人员都将和参试家庭分享录音测试结果，并探讨跟孩子多说话的方法：你是怎样跟宝宝形容你度过的一天的？跟宝宝进行亲子阅读时，有没有什么好办法？他们也将在一起讨论社区的各种资源，比如图书馆的朗读日。接下来则会与参试家庭约定下个月的目标。该市还希望征集一些家长，作为同伴教育者。
Taveras, who was raised by a single mother, an immigrant from the Dominican Republic, chose the program because of the role Head Start played in his own life. At Harvard, he found that his roommate and several friends were also Head Start babies. “It did and still does have a big impact,” he said. “The research on the gap that exists is pretty startling in some ways. But this is something we can address with different strategies. We have an opportunity to level the playing field.”
塔维拉斯由单亲妈妈抚养长大，原籍多米尼加共和国，他之所以选择了这个项目，是因为“开端计划”（Head Start，美国联邦政府开展的儿童早期发展计划，为贫困家庭的儿童提供免费的健康、教育、营养等综合服务——译注）在他本人的生命中扮演的角色。在读哈佛大学(Harvard)时，他发现室友和几个朋友小时候也都加入过“开端计划”。他说：“这个计划确实对我产生了巨大影响，影响一直延续至今。有关教育鸿沟的研究从某些方面来看，确实非常惊人。但我们可以通过不同的策略来对此加以改进。我们有机会能将跑道铺平。”