MUNSAN, South Korea — “We can’t have another Korean War. Do you agree with me?” Jung Ki-youl, chairman of the local government here, asked an estimated 25,000 mostly young South Koreans at Nuri Peace Park, only 5 miles from the Demilitarized Zone that separates the two Koreas. The crowd was eagerly awaiting a two-hour concert Saturday night featuring some of the biggest stars of K-pop, a popular genre of music in South Korea.
韩国汶山——周六晚上，在距离将朝韩隔开的非军事区（Demilitarized Zone，简称DMZ）仅5英里（约合8公里）的和平Nuri公园里(Nuri Peace Park)，地方政府主席郑基俞（Jung Ki-youl，音）问道：“我们不能再经历一次朝鲜战争了。你们同意吗？”现场估计有2.5万人，主要是韩国的年轻人。他们正兴奋地等着一场两个小时的音乐会开始，一些韩国流行乐坛的巨星将在音乐会上现身。
“That is why this peace concert is so meaningful,” Jung said. “Let’s shout ‘no’ to missiles and ‘no’ to nuclear weapons development and ‘we want peace.’ Maybe North Korea can hear us,” he said. A roar rose up from the crowd in response.
“这正是这场和平音乐会为何这么有意义的原因，”郑基俞说。“让我们大声对导弹说‘不’，对核武器的研制说‘不’，高喊‘我们想要和平’。也许朝鲜能听到我们的声音，”他说。人群报以一阵喊叫。
But the volume of these shouts was nothing compared with the shrieks of young men and women that filled the park after the performances of their favorite K-pop stars, including Girls’ Generation, BTOB, Cosmic Girls, Mamamoo and GFriend, who performed at the seventh annual summer DMZ Peace Concert.
但和他们最爱的韩国流行音乐明星，包括少女时代(Girls’ Generation)、BTOB、宇宙少女(Cosmic Girls)、Mamamoo和GFriend在一年一度的第七届DMZ和平音乐会(DMZ Peace Concert)上的表演结束后公园里所爆发出的年轻男女的尖叫声相比，这些喊叫的音量不算什么。
Nam Hyung-jin, 18, a college freshman studying Chinese language, had traveled 70 miles north from Osan City. He felt apprehensive about attending, knowing how close the concert was to North Korea. He was unsettled by the bellicose remarks exchanged between the leaders of the United States and North Korea last week.
18岁的中文专业大一新生南炯镇（Nam Hyung-jin，音）来自70英里（约合113公里）以北的乌山市。他知道音乐会现场离朝鲜有多近，起初对去听音乐会感到担心。美国和朝鲜领导人上周你来我往的好战言论让他感到不安。
But after cheering the Cosmic Girls as that 13-piece group bounced up and down in unison singing their syrupy hit “Happy,” Nam said he hoped that North Korea could hear “the sound of freedom” from the south.
但在由13名团员组成的宇宙少女一边唱风格甜美的大热歌曲《Happy》，一边整齐划一地蹦蹦跳跳喝彩后，南炯镇说他希望朝鲜能听到韩国“自由的声音”。
“If enjoying K-pop right near the border with the aggressive North Korea is not freedom, what is?” he said. “I hope North Korea, too, understands how much happiness freedom can bring and chooses a path toward peace.”
“如果在好斗的朝鲜边界附近听韩国流行音乐不是自由，那什么才是？”他说。“我希望朝鲜也能明白自由可以带来多少快乐，并选择一条迈向和平的道路。”
Another Cosmic Girls fan, Kim Ji-hyun, 12, a sixth-grader from Paju City, a few miles away, also felt some trepidation at first.
另一名宇宙少女粉丝、来自几英里外坡州市的六年级学生、12岁的金志玄（Kim Ji-hyun，音）一开始也感到有些不安。
“I live close to the border so I am used to seeing soldiers around, but there are soldiers here at a peaceful culture event. The security situation in our country must be serious,” he said. “But Cosmic Girls’ act totally distracted me away from feeling scared.”
“我住在边界附近，所以习惯了到处都能看到士兵，但这场和平的文化活动现场也有士兵。我们国家的安全局势肯定很严峻，”他说。“但宇宙少女的表演完全转移了我的注意力，让我忘记了害怕。”
This is the seventh time that the local government and the Korean national television network MBC have hosted the annual DMZ Peace Concert. The event commemorates National Liberation Day, a holiday common to both Koreas, that remembers the end of the 35-year Japanese colonial occupation in 1945. This year’s concert, which had the slogan, “Again, Peace!,” was organized with the participation of the South Korean Ministry of Unification. The ministry is mandated to prepare for the reintegration of the two Koreas into a single nation.
这是本地政府和韩国全国性的电视网络文化广播公司(MBC)第七次联合举办每年一度的DMZ和平音乐会。音乐会是为了纪念1945年日本长达35年的殖民统治结束的光复节(National Liberation Day)。韩朝两国都有这个节日。今年的音乐会口号是“再次和平！”韩国统一部(Unification Ministry)参与了今年的音乐会组织工作。该机构授命为韩朝重新融合为一个国家做准备。
“Young Koreans tend to not care about unification,” said Kim Nan-young, deputy director of the ministry’s cultural affairs division, adding that events like this one, intended to pique young people’s interest in unification, are important.
“韩国年轻人往往不关心统一，”统一部文化活动部门的副主任金慎永（Kim Nan-young，音）说，并接着表示像这种意在激起年轻人对统一兴趣的活动很重要。
The effort has been effective, Kim Nan-young said. “Young people inevitably get to think about unification and security issues when they come to a place near the border with North Korea.”
金慎永说，这种努力是有效果的。“当年轻人来到一个靠近朝鲜边界的地方时，他们必然会考虑统一和安全问题。”
The government’s efforts seemed to have worked on Kim Ha-min, 15, a high school student who came to the concert from Incheon, just west of Seoul. For Kim, North Korea had always been a scary, distant place. But on Saturday, when her to favorite K-pop boy band, BTOB, dedicated its ballad “Someday” to the hope for unification, Kim said that it made her think differently.
政府的努力似乎对从首尔西边的仁川来听音乐会的15岁高中生金霞敏（Kim Ha-min，音）起了作用。对她来说，朝鲜向来是一个可怕、遥远的地方。在周六，当她最喜欢的韩国流行音乐男团BTOB抱着对统一的期望投入地演唱民谣《Someday》时，金霞敏说她的想法变了。
The song’s lyrics made her realize “that there are people just like us living in North Korea,” she said, “and not just its belligerent leader, Kim Jong Un.”
这首歌的歌词让她意识到“朝鲜生活着和我们一样的人”，她说。“不只有好斗的领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)。”
“They are just over that border,” Kim Ha-min said, pointing toward the north.
“他们就在边界那边，”金霞敏指着北边说。
In between acts, a huge screen behind the stage showed K-pop stars in scenarios envisaging a peaceful society after unification of the peninsula, in which South Koreans would be able vacation in the north and young people from both sides would be able to date and make friends.
在表演间隙，舞台后面的大屏幕上出现了韩国流行音乐明星展望朝鲜半岛统一后实现社会和平，韩国人能够去北边度假，两边的年轻人能够约会和交朋友的画面。
The concert ended with all the participating K-pop entertainers onstage together for a song about how happy everyone would be on the day the two Koreas come together. The screen behind them showed enormous South Korean flags waving.
最后，参加音乐会的所有韩国流行音乐艺人一起登台，演唱了一首有关在两国统一那天人们会多么幸福的歌曲。在他们身后的屏幕上，无数面韩国国旗飘扬。
“At first, I felt scared about coming here so close to the border with North Korea,” said Kim Na-young, 14, from Geojedo Island, “but I am glad I came. I can see now that we can enjoy ourselves anywhere even if North Korea threatens us.”
“起初，我对来离朝鲜边界这么近的地方感到害怕，”来自巨济岛的14岁的金娜英（Kim Na-young，音）说。“但很高兴我来了。我现在明白了，即使朝鲜威胁我们，我们在任何地方都可以开开心心的。”
Kim added, “I hope people in North Korea got to hear the K-pop songs and our message of peace, too.”
金娜英接着说，“我希望朝鲜的民众也听到了韩国的流行歌曲，听到我们对和平的期盼。”