The long-running boom in emerging markets came to be identified, if not propped up, by wide acceptance of the term BRICs, shorthand for the fast-growing countries Brazil, Russia, India and China. Recent turmoil in these and similar markets has produced a rival expression: the Fragile Five.
人们对“金砖四国”(BRICs)这个称谓的广泛接纳，即使没对新兴市场的长期繁荣起到扶持作用，至少也表明了大家对这个现实的逐步认可。“金砖四国”是对经济高速增长的四个国家的简称，由巴西、俄罗斯、印度和中国组成。最近，包括这四国在内的新兴市场的动荡已经催生了一个与之竞争的表述，那就是“脆弱五国”(Fragile Five)。
The new name, as coined by a little-known research analyst at Morgan Stanley last summer, identifies Turkey, Brazil, India, South Africa and Indonesia as economies that have become too dependent on skittish foreign investment to finance their growth ambitions.
摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)的一位籍籍无名的研究分析师于去年夏天创造出了这个短语，把土耳其、巴西、印度、南非和印度尼西亚圈定为过度依赖变化无常的外国投资来维持本国增长雄心的经济体。
The term has caught on in large degree because it highlights the strains that occur when countries place too much emphasis on stoking fast rates of economic growth. The new catchphrase also raises pressing questions about not just the BRICs but about emerging markets in general.
这个词之所以流行开来，很大程度上是因为，它突显了当国家把重心过多地放在促进经济高速增长时所承受的压力。这个新的流行语还提出了迫切的问题，不仅事关“金砖四国”，还涵盖整个新兴市场。
The Morgan Stanley report came out in August, when there were reports that the Federal Reserve would soon reduce its bond-buying program. The term that report coined became a quick and easy way for investors to give voice to fears of a broader emerging markets rout, propelled by runs on the Turkish lira, Brazilian real and South African rand.
摩根士丹利的报告在去年8月出炉，当时有报道称，美联储(Federal Reserve)会很快开始缩减其债券购买计划。该报告创造的这个词汇成为了一种迅捷简便的表达方式，让投资者借此说出对更大范围的新兴市场因土耳其里拉、巴西雷亚尔和南非兰特的抛售而陷入崩溃的忧虑。
These fears were realized this week when Turkey, seen by most investors as the most fragile of the fragile five, raised interest rates 4.25 percentage points on Tuesday.
土耳其被大多数投资者视为“脆弱五国”里最脆弱的一环。本周二，当该国把利率提高了4.25%个百分点时，这种担忧变成了现实。
The sharper-than-expected increase by the country’s central bank — which previously took a fairly passive approach to defending its currency — was intended to persuade foreign investors, as well as corporate and household savers, to hold on to their lira instead of exchanging them for dollars.
土耳其中央银行超出预期的利率提升幅度，旨在劝服外国投资者、企业和家庭储户继续持有手中的里拉，而不是把它们兑换成美元。此前，土耳其央行采取的是相当被动的方式来捍卫本国货币。
As with other members of the Fragile Five, Turkey relies heavily on fickle short-term investment from foreigners to finance gaping current account deficits — the result of which has been a currency that many investors say is overvalued.
与“脆弱五国”的其他成员一样，土耳其严重依赖变幻无常的海外短期投资来弥补不断扩大的经常帐户赤字——结果造成了许多投资者口中估值过高的货币。
Investment analysts love to come up with catchy names that simplify their views and, ideally, capture the market spirit of the moment. During the early period of the euro crisis, PIGS, unkindly, came to describe Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain. And when the focus turned to Greece and its future in the euro zone, Grexit became the term of art.
投资分析师喜好创造琅琅上口的名称。这些说法能简化他们的观点，理想的话，还能抓住市场当下的本质。在欧元危机早期，“蠢猪四国”(PIGS)被刻薄地用于指代葡萄牙、爱尔兰、希腊和西班牙。当焦点转向希腊及其在欧元区的未来时，“希腊退出”(Grexit)成为了当时的时髦语。
Not all of them catch on. In September, Deutsche Bank analysts came up with Biits, which covers the same countries as the Fragile Five, but it graced hardly any analysts’ reports.
不是所有的词都会流行。去年9月，德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)的分析师创出了Biits一词，指的同样是“脆弱五国”。不过，它可没给分析师们的任何报告增光添彩。
The countries in the Asian financial crisis of 1997 never got saddled with a nickname. As in that and other emerging market blowups, foreign investors and lenders pulled their money out because of broader concerns about political and economic uncertainty.
1997年亚洲金融危机波及的各国从未被套上绰号。在那次危机，以及新兴市场崩溃的其他时刻，外国投资者和出借方出于对政治和经济上的不确定性的大范围担忧，而把资金抽离出来。
And while there have been sharp outflows from Turkey and some of the other members of the Fragile Five, broadly speaking, foreign investors have retreated from the asset class as a whole.
虽然包括土耳其在内的“脆弱五国”部分成员出现了大量的资金外流，不过从全局来看，外国投资者总体上已在撤出他们持有的这种资产类别。
None of which surprises Jim O’Neill, who, as an economist at Goldman Sachs in late 2001, came up with the phrase BRICs as a way to highlight the long-term growth potential of large emerging market economies.
这些事都没有出乎吉姆·奥尼尔(Jim O'Neill)的意料。作为高盛(Goldman Sachs)的经济师，他在2001年末提出了“金砖四国”这个词，作为对新兴市场大型经济体的长期发展潜力的强调。
“I still believe these are the best investment opportunities in the world,” said Mr. O’Neill, who acknowledges being irritated at having to defend his thesis every time there is an emerging market wobble.
“我依然认为，它们是全球最佳的投资机会，”奥尼尔说。他承认，每次新兴市场出现波动时，他都不得不为自己的观点辩护，这让他不胜其烦。
Mr. O’Neill, who recently left Goldman and now works independently, has just come up with yet another, similarly dynamic club. This one, of populous countries with high growth potential, he calls MINTs, for Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey.
奥尼尔最近离开了高盛，目前在独立工作。他刚刚造出另一个词，其成员国构成了同样富有活力的俱乐部。这个词指代的是具有高增长潜力的人口大国，被他称为“造币四国”(MINTs)，意指墨西哥、印度尼西亚、尼日利亚和土耳其。
When Mr. O’Neill coined the BRICs phrase in late 2001, foreign capital inflows into emerging markets were about $190 billion a year, according to data from the Institute of International Finance, the trade group for international banks.
根据跨国银行交易组织国际金融研究所(Institute of International Finance)的数据，当奥尼尔在2001年末造出“金砖四国”这个词时，流入新兴市场的境外资本达到了每年1900亿美元（当时约合1.6万亿元人民币）左右。
His timing could not have been better: The Federal Reserve was moving to a policy of very low interest rates and China’s growth engine was revving up, driving what would become a long-running commodity boom.
他的时机恰如其分：当时，美联储正向极低的利率政策转移，而中国的增长引擎正在加快运转，驱动即将到来的长期的大宗商品繁荣期。
Yield-starved investors began pouring into Mr. O’Neill’s markets and their economies. Since 2010, annual net inflows into these markets have averaged a little over $1 trillion a year.
如饥似渴的投资者开始涌入奥尼尔所说的市场，把大量资金投向这些经济体。自2010年以来，这几大市场的资金净流入的年平均值正好跨过了1万亿美元大关。
As a result, Mr. O’Neill became quite the global man about town. He has been celebrated by investors and the BRIC nations themselves, which even formed a BRIC-development bank.
结果，奥尼尔成为了全球风靡的人物。投资界和“金砖四国”均对他颇为推崇，后者甚至组建了“金砖四国”开发银行。
All this changed last summer, when the Fed’s announcement that it would eventually reverse its bond-buying program panicked giddy emerging-market investors. Other concerns, like a slowdown of growth in China, political uncertainty in Russia and Turkey and most crucially, vulnerable currencies in Brazil and South Africa, spurred concerns over the possibility of a broader market panic.
所有这一切都在去年夏天改变了。当时，美联储宣布，最终将缩减自己的债券购买计划，让飘飘然的新兴市场投资者惊慌失措。其他的担忧，比如中国的增速放缓、俄罗斯和土耳其的政治不确定性，以及最关键的——脆弱不堪的巴西和南非货币——刺激了人们对可能会出现更大范围的市场恐慌的忧虑。
So in early August, when James K. Lord, a fairly junior currency analyst at Morgan Stanley sent out a research note warning of the risks within the “fragile five,” the name spread quickly, especially among investors already nervous about their emerging-market holdings.
所以，去年8月初，当资历尚浅的摩根士丹利货币分析师詹姆斯·K·洛德(James K. Lord)发表了一份研究报告，警告“脆弱五国”存在内部风险时，这个名称迅速流传开来。在对手中持有的新兴市场的资产已感不安的投资者当中，它传播得尤其快。
“People made mistakes investing in these markets just because of the headline G.D.P. and demographics,” said Stephen L. Jen, a former economist for the International Monetary Fund who now manages a hedge fund based in London. Important issues like corruption and governance, not to mention excessive lending in urban areas that favored the political and economic elites, have been ignored, he pointed out.
“仅仅因为这些市场的名义国内生产总值和人口统计数据就来投资的人是搞错了，”曾在国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)任职的经济学家任永力(Stephen L. Jen)说。他现在管理着总部位于伦敦的一家对冲基金。他还指出，腐败和政府治理等重要的问题一直被忽视了，更别提让政治和经济权贵受益的城市地区出现的过度借贷问题。
“Istanbul does not need 100 malls,” he said. “There is a reason these people are poor.”
“伊斯坦布尔并不需要100家购物中心，”他说。“那里的人穷是有原因的。”
Mr. Jen did make a stab at crafting his own catchphrase and considered adding Russia to transform the Fragile Five into the Sorry Six, before ditching the notion.
任永力确实尝试过打造自己的流行语。他曾考虑把俄罗斯加进来，让“脆弱五国”变成“悲哀六国”(Sorry Six)，不过他最终放弃了这个概念。
Better to keep it simple, he said, and steer clear of currencies with four letters: the Mexican peso, the South African rand, the Brazilian real and, of course, the Turkish lira.
他说，最好是简单行事，绕开由四个英文字母组成的货币单位：墨西哥比索、南非兰特、巴西雷亚尔，当然，还有土耳其里拉。