PBS said on Wednesday that it was postponing a future season of “Finding Your Roots” after an investigation revealed that the actor Ben Affleck pressured producers into leaving out details about an ancestor of his who owned slaves.
上周三，美国公共广播公司(PBS)称，下一季《寻根》(Finding Your Roots)播放时间将推迟。此前有调查揭露，演员本·阿弗莱克(Ben Affleck)曾向制片人施压，要求从节目中删去关于他祖先曾拥有奴隶的相关细节。
PBS will not run the show’s third season until staffing changes are made, including hiring a fact checker, it said.
PBS公司表示，要到人事变动完毕之后（包括聘请一位事实核查员），他们才会播出第三季的节目。
The show, which is hosted by the Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates Jr., traces family histories of celebrities and public figures, and has run for two seasons. The concern about Mr. Affleck’s relative surfaced in the WikiLeaks cache of hacked Sony emails after Mr. Gates asked a Sony executive for advice about a “megastar” who wanted to omit a detail about a slave-owning ancestor.
该节目已经播放两季，由哈佛教授小亨利·路易斯·盖茨(Henry Louis Gates Jr.)主持，内容为探寻明星和公众人物的家族史。对阿弗莱克的祖先的忧虑，出现在维基解密(WikiLeaks)公布的遭入侵的索尼邮件中；盖茨曾经联络一位索尼高管，为一位超级巨星想要隐藏自己祖先曾是奴隶主的请求征求他的意见。
“We’ve never had anyone ever try to censor or edit what we found,” Mr. Gates wrote to a Sony executive, Michael Lynton, in July 2014. Mr. Gates added that this would violate PBS rules, and “once we open the door to censorship, we lose control of the brand.”
“我们从没有让任何人尝试审查或编辑我们发现的内容，”2014年7月，盖茨在给索尼高管迈克尔·林顿(Michael Lynton)的信件中这样说。盖茨补充道，这样做违反了PBS的规定，并且“我们一旦给审查制度开门，就将失去对品牌的把控”。
When the episode was broadcast in October, it did not mention the slave-owning ancestor. After the emails were posted to WikiLeaks, Mr. Gates said that producers had discovered more interesting ancestors from Mr. Affleck’s family, including a relative from the Revolutionary War and an occult enthusiast.
当节目在十月播出时，关于奴隶主祖先的信息只字未提。在那些邮件在维基解密上公开之后，盖茨解释道，制片人们在对阿弗莱克家族背景的探索中发现了更为有趣的祖先，他们之中有人曾参加美国革命战争，也有人是神秘学(Occult)的狂热者。
Mr. Affleck said in April that he was “embarrassed” when he discovered that he was related to a slave owner. “I didn’t want any television show about my family to include a guy who owned slaves,” Mr. Affleck wrote on Facebook.
阿弗莱克曾在四月表示，当他发现自己和一个奴隶主有血缘关系是，他感到很“尴尬”。“我不希望任何电视节目展示我的家人，包括那个拥有奴隶的家伙，”阿弗莱克在自己的Facebook上这样写道。
In the investigation, PBS said that producers violated network standards by letting Mr. Affleck have “improper influence” and “by failing to inform PBS or WNET of Mr. Affleck’s efforts to affect program content.”
在调查中，PBS公司指出，制作方受到了阿弗莱克的“不正当影响”，同时“未能将阿弗莱克试图影响节目内容的行为告知PBS和WNET”。这种做法违反了电视台的标准。
The network said that before the third season of “Finding Your Roots” can broadcast, the show needs to make some staffing changes, including the addition of a fact checker and an “independent genealogist” to review the show’s contents.
该电视台指出，在《寻根》第三季播出之前，节目组需要做出一些人事变动，其中包括新增一位事实核查员以及一位“独立的系谱学家”来检查节目内容。
PBS also said that it had not made a decision about whether to commit to a fourth season of the show.
PBS公司还表示，是否会制作第四季节目目前仍然未知。
In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Gates said, “I sincerely regret not discussing my editing rationale with our partners at PBS and WNET and I apologize for putting PBS and its member stations in the position of having to defend the integrity of their programming.”
在上星期三的声明中，盖茨称，“我真心地悔恨，我没有与我们在PBS和WNET的合作伙伴讨论我这样编辑的理由；我同时要道歉，我的行为让PBS及其成员不得不为自己节目的正直立场而辩护。”