IN a different campaign or era, it would have been a race-altering moment; in this one, it was barely a scandal. There was Melania Trump, the potential first lady of the United States, posing stark naked in ’90s-era photos published by the New York Post — and then in the next day’s edition, canoodling lipstick-lesbian style in bed. Yet the press yawned, her husband’s latest outrage overshadowed it, and it only stayed a story because the date of the photos raised questions about the future Mrs. Trump’s immigration status.
在另一场选战中或者另一个时代里，这应该会是一个改变竞选形势的时刻：但此时此刻，这件事几乎算不上丑闻。有可能当上美国第一夫人的梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)，曾在90年代刊发的一组照片中全裸出镜，《纽约邮报》(New York Post)现在刊出了这些照片——在该报第二天刊发的照片中，她又扮作性感女同和同性搂抱亲热。可是，媒体对此兴趣缺缺，相比之下，她丈夫最近一次的发飙还更吸引眼球一些。此事之所以被深挖，是因为相关照片发表的日期，引得人们开始质疑后来成为特朗普夫人的她当时的移民身份。
This election was supposed to be a referendum on Hillary Clinton, long a polarizing figure because she seemed to embody the cultural transformations of the 1960s — the liberal, feminist, working-mother spouse of the first boomer president.
这场选举曾被视作针对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的公投。克林顿一直是一个让人非爱即恨的人物，因为她似乎代表着1960年代的文化变革——她是自由派、女性主义者和职场母亲，嫁给了出生于婴儿潮时代的第一个美国总统。
But in the year of Donald Trump, the religious conservatives who fought many of those transformations find themselves reduced to a hapless rump. The best have retreated to rebuild; the worst have abased themselves before a sybaritic, irreligious presidential nominee.
但在唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)出尽风头的年头，曾与很多这些文化变革相对抗的宗教保守派，发现自己沦落为时运不济的遗老遗少。其中最优秀的一些人已经撤离战场，去重整旗鼓，最糟糕的一些，则是在一个奢靡无度且缺乏宗教信仰的总统提名人面前卑躬屈膝。
So in word, deed and his wife’s “artistic” shots, it’s Trump rather than Clinton who has confirmed the full triumph of the sexual revolutions.
因此，从特朗普的言谈举止及其妻子的“艺术”照来看，他比克林顿更能证明性革命的全面胜利。
I say revolutions, plural, because Trump is a reminder that the 1960s happened in stages, with different figures and worldviews shaping its social shifts. As John Podhoretz wrote in a shrewd column, Trump and Hillary are both children of the ’60s — but of its opposite ends, the Brat Pack era in Trump’s case and the flowering of boomer liberalism in Hillary’s.
我口中的革命是复数的，因为特朗普提醒我们，1960年代是分阶段的，当时的社会变革由不同的人物和世界观塑造而成。正如约翰·波德霍雷茨(John Podhoretz)在一篇精辟的专栏文章中所写，特朗普和希拉里都是60年代的孩子，但却分处两个极端：特朗普汲取的是“新鼠党”(Brat Pack)时代的养分，克林顿受到的，则是在那个年代盛放的婴儿潮自由主义的影响。
Much of what seems strange and reactionary about Trump is tied to what was normal to a certain kind of Sinatra and Mad Men-era man — the casual sexism, the odd mix of sleaziness and formality, even the insult-comic style.
特朗普身上看似奇怪、反动的很多东西，都和辛纳塔(Sinatra)及《广告狂人》(Mad Men)时代某种人身上的常见特质息息相关——比如不经意的性别歧视，低俗和守礼的奇特混搭，乃至那种出言不逊加漫画做派的风格。
But while that male culture was “conservative” in its exploitative attitudes toward women, it was itself in rebellion against bourgeois norms and Middle-American Christianity. And if Hillary is a (partial, given her complicated marriage) avatar of Gloria Steinem-era feminism, her opponent is an heir of the male revolutionary in whose club Steinem once went undercover: Hugh Hefner.
但是，那种男性文化，虽然就其剥削利用女性的态度而言算是“保守”，但它本身却是对资产阶级规范和美国中部基督教体制的反抗。如果希拉里算是格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)时代女权主义的（不完整）化身（鉴于其复杂的婚姻），那她的竞争对手就是男性革命者休·海夫纳(Hugh Hefner)的传人。斯泰纳姆曾在海夫纳的俱乐部里当“卧底”。
It was Hefner who fully embodied the male sexual revolt. Today he’s just a sleazy oldster, but in the beginning he was a faux philosopher, preaching a gospel cribbed from bohemia and various Freudian enemies of repression, in which the blessed pursuit of promiscuity was the human birthright. But really a male birthright, for a certain kind of man: The sort of hep cat who loved inviting the ladies back to his pad “for a quiet discussion on Picasso, Nietzsche, jazz, sex.”
海夫纳一度是男性性反叛潮流最具代表性的人物。虽然他现在只是个低俗的老头儿，起初却是一位山寨版的哲学家，宣讲着抄袭自反对压抑自我的波西米亚式及各种弗洛伊德式理念的福音，照他所说，追寻和享受放荡，是人与生俱来的权利。但这实际上，是特定男性群体享有的与生俱来的权利：那些时髦人物喜欢邀请女士回到自己的居所，“恬静地讨论讨论毕加索(Picasso)、尼采(Nietzsche)，爵士乐，还有性”。
That was the ideal, at least. Trump, the thrice-married ubermensch who jokes about Megyn Kelly’s period, is the more usual reality. (So, albeit with more surface class, was the ultimate early-’60s man, the sex-addicted J.F.K.)
那算是理想中的情形。在现实中更为常见的，是特朗普这种结过三次婚，拿梅根·凯利(Megyn Kelly)的月经开过玩笑的位高权重者。（因此，在表面上的讲究之下，是如假包换的60年代男人，是沉迷于性事的约翰·肯尼迪[J.F.K]。）
That obvious gulf helps explain why Hefner passed from a phenomenon to a sideshow, while a more feminist vision of liberation became the official ideology of the liberal upper class.
这种显而易见的鸿沟有助于解释：为什么海夫纳从一个现象级人物变成了一个小角色，而更具女性主义色彩的解放运动，则演化成为自由派上层阶级的官方意识形态。
But only gradually and partially. The men’s sexual revolution, in which freedom meant freedom to take your pleasure while women took the pill, is still a potent force, and not only in the halls of Fox News. From Hollywood and college campuses to rock concert backstages and Bill Clinton’s political operation, it has persisted as a pervasive but unspoken philosophy in precincts officially committed to cultural liberalism and sexual equality.
但其演化过程是渐进的、不完全的。男性的性革命——其中的自由是指一边让女性服避孕药，一边纵情享受的自由——目前仍然是一股强大的力量，而且不仅是在福克斯新闻台(Fox News)的大厅里。从好莱坞和大学校园，到摇滚音乐会的后台和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的政治团队，它作为一种并未言明的哲学，普遍存在于所有表面宣称追求文化自由主义和性别平等之处。
It has also endured by going downmarket in the culture. If you watched “The Girls Next Door,” the TV show about Hefner’s ménage, you noticed that the Playboy mystique was emphatically not a joke in the lower middle class environs that produced his centerfolds and their most adoring fans. Like Trumpism, Hefnerian values have prospered in the blue-collar vacuum created by religion’s retreat, community’s unraveling.
此外，它依然存在于低端文化市场之中。如果你看了与海夫纳一家有关的电视节目《邻家兔女郎》(The Girls Next Door)，就会注意到，《花花公子》的神秘魅力在中下阶层环境中显然并不是一个笑话，那种环境催生出了其杂志的插页裸体女郎，以及她们最热情的粉丝。像特朗普主义一样，海夫纳式价值观在蓝领们因宗教式微、社区瓦解而形成的精神真空中大行其道。
Then finally, among men who were promised pliant centerfolds and ended up single with only high-speed internet to comfort them, the men’s sexual revolution has curdled into a toxic subculture, resentful of female empowerment in all its forms.
最终，在被许以温柔顺从的插页女郎、却最终单身一人，只能通过高速互联网寻求慰籍的男性群体里，男人的性革命化作了有毒的亚文化，仇视所有形式的女性平权。
This is where you find Trump’s strongest (and, yes, strangest) fans. He’s become the Daddy Alpha for every alpha-aspiring beta male, whose mix of moral liberation and misogyny keeps the Ring-a-Ding-Ding dream alive.
在这种亚文化里，你可以找到特朗普的粉丝中最狂热(同时也最古怪)的那群人。他已经被每一位梦想成为老大的失意男子视作龙头老大。这些人将道德解放和厌女情节混在一起，来维系《叮叮作响》(Ring-a-Ding-Ding)式的梦境。
There aren’t nearly enough of these fans to win him the election. Steinem’s revolution (Clintonian complications and all) should easily beat Hef’s at the ballot box this year.
这些粉丝远未多到能让他赢得选举的程度。今年，斯泰纳姆的革命（尽管有着克林顿式的种种混乱）应该会在大选中轻松击败海夫纳的革命。
But the cultural conflict between these two post-revolutionary styles — between frat guys and feminist bluestockings, Gamergaters and the diversity police, alt-right provocateurs and “woke” dudebros, the mouthbreathers who poured hate on the all-female “Ghostbusters” and the tastemakers who pretended it was good — is likely here to stay. With time and Christianity’s further decline, it could eclipse older culture war battles; in the pop culture landscape, it already does.
但这两种后革命风格之间的文化冲突——兄弟会成员和女权主义蓝袜女之间的冲突，“玩家门”运动参与者(Gamergater)和多元化守卫者之间的冲突，非主流右翼挑衅者和“觉醒的”大男人之间的冲突，恶毒攻击全女版《捉鬼敢死隊》(Ghostbusters)的蠢人和假装该片很棒的潮流创造者之间的冲突——可能不会消失。随着时间的推移，以及基督教的式微，它可能遮蔽旧有的文化战争；在流行文化领域已经是这样了。
Ten years ago, liberals pined for a post-religious right, a different culture war.
十年前，自由派曾渴望一种后宗教右翼，一场不同的文化战争。
Be careful what you wish for.
乱许愿真是不可取啊。