The notes were sprawled across a letter bearing President Trump’s signature.
一封有特朗普总统签名的信上写满了评语。
In the top left corner: “Have y’all tried grammar & style check?”
左上角写着：“你们都做过语法和格式检查吗？”
At the top right: “Federal is capitalized only when used as part of a proper noun.”
右上角写着：“Federal（联邦）只有用在专有名词中的时候才大写。”
And toward the bottom: “OMG this is WRONG!”
信的下方写着：“我的天哪，这里错了！”
The letter, dated May 3 and printed on White House stationery, was addressed to Yvonne Mason, 61, a former high school English teacher who retired last year but hadn’t quite left “grading-paper mode,” she said on Sunday.
这封信打印在白宫抬头的信纸上，信上注明的日期是5月3日，是写给现年61岁的伊冯娜·梅森(Yvonne Mason)的。曾是高中英语老师的梅森于周日表示，她虽然已在去年退休，但还没完全脱离“阅卷模式”。
So when she received the letter in the mail, she pulled out her go-to purple pen and started making corrections. Then she snapped a picture, posted the letter on Facebook and mailed it back to the White House.
因此在收到寄来的信后，她就拿出自己常用的紫色钢笔开始修改。然后，她拍了一张照片，把这封信发在了Facebook上，然后把它寄回白宫。
“It was a poorly worded missive,” she said. “Poor writing is not something I abide. If someone is capable of doing better, then they should do better.”
“它是一封措辞糟糕的信函，”她说。“我受不了糟糕的文章。如果有人能够写得更好，那他们就应该做到。”
Ms. Mason, a Democrat who lives in Atlanta, had written to Mr. Trump to ask that he visit each family of those who died in the shooting that killed 17 people at a school in Parkland, Fla., in February.
梅森是一名民主党人，住在亚特兰大。她曾写信给特朗普，要求他看望在佛罗里达州帕克兰校园枪击案中所有遇难者的家人，该事件发生在2月，造成17人死亡。
“I had written to them in anger, to tell you the truth,” she said. “I thought he owed it to these grieving families.”
“说实话，我是怀着愤怒的心情给他们写信的，”她说。“我觉得他应该去看望这些伤心的家人。”
The letter she received did not address her concerns, she said. Instead, it listed a series of actions taken after the shooting, like listening sessions, meetings with lawmakers and the STOP School Violence Act, a bill that would authorize $500 million over 10 years for safety improvements at schools but had no provisions related to guns.
她说，她收到的回信没有提到她关切的事，只是列出了事件发生后采取的一系列行动，如聆听会、与立法者召开的会议以及《制止校园暴力法案》(STOP School Violence Act)。该法案授权在10年内拨付五亿美元（约合32亿元人民币）用于改善学校的安全，但没有和枪支相关的条款。
Then there were the grammatical errors.
然后还有语法错误。
“Nation” was capitalized, so was “states.” Ms. Mason circled both.
“nation”（国家）大写了，“ states”（州）也是。梅森把这两个词圈了出来。
A sentence about a “rule” banning devices that turn legal guns into illegal machine guns was unclear. “Explain ‘rule,’” she wrote.
一个句子里写着，某项“规章”禁止使用把合法枪支改造为非法机关枪的装置，这句话表达不清楚。“解释一下‘规章’，”她写道。
There was more. Much more.
还有很多很多。
“If my students turned that in they would get exactly the same marks,” she said.
“如果我的学生把这样的作业交上来，他们会得到完全一样的分数。”
But she didn’t correct everything.
但她并没有纠正所有错误。
“I did not mention the dangling modifier,” she said. “I focused mainly on mechanics.”
“我没有还提垂悬修饰语错误，”她说。“我主要关注结构。”
The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
白宫没有立即回复记者的置评请求。
The letter stood in contrast to other letters she has received from politicians, Ms. Mason said. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, sent “beautiful” letters that struck a tone that “makes me more important than him,” she said.
梅森说，这封信与她从其他政治人物那里收到的来信形成鲜明对比。南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)寄来的信语言“优美”，信中的语气“显得我比他更重要”，她说。
She has written to several legislators in South Carolina, where she taught Advanced Placement English language and composition.
她给南卡罗来纳州的多名立法者写过信。退休前，她在该州教大学先修课程英语和写作。
Following up on a New Year’s resolution, she has written a postcard to the White House every day since Jan. 1, she said.
她说，从今年1月1日开始，她每天给白宫写一张明信片，这是她的新年计划。
When she was teaching, she wanted to show her students that their voices mattered, even if they weren’t old enough to vote, she said.
她说，当老师的时候，她想让学生知道，他们的声音很重要，即使他们还不到投票的年龄。
“You’re important. You need to be a part of this, you need to pay attention to what’s going on,” she said.
“你们很重要。你们必须参与其中，必须关注正在发生的事情，”她说。
When word spread about the corrected letter she had sent to the White House, Ms. Mason received hundreds of messages from people across the country — some positive (a lawyer in Houston wanted to know if she would be interested in looking over his appellate briefs) and others venomous (one person suggested she “must be a lonely bitter hag with a lot of cats”).
当她把修改后的信寄回白宫的消息传开后，梅森收到了全美各地发来的成百上千条讯息。一些是肯定的（休斯顿的一名律师想知道她是否有兴趣检查他的上诉摘要），另一些言语恶毒（有人说她“肯定是一个养着很多猫，孤独、恶毒的丑老太婆”）。
But Ms. Mason wasn’t focusing on the negativity.
但梅森并不关注负面言论。
“Let them have their day, bless their little hearts,” she said. “They aren’t changing my mind.”
“就让他们自娱自乐吧，那些可怜虫，”她说。“他们不会改变我的想法。”