It’s a joke among parents in Beijing — where people are acutely aware of the differences between China and the United States and where there are many mixed-culture families and styles of parenting — that when a child scores 99 on a test, an American parent will lavish praise. But a Chinese parent will say: “What happened? Why didn’t you get 100?”
在北京，人们非常清楚中国和美国之间的差异，这里有许多具有多重文化背景的家庭，以及各种各样的育儿方式。在北京的父母中间流传着这样一则笑话：如果孩子在考试中得了99分，美国家长肯定会大加赞扬。但是中国父母则会说：“怎么回事，为什么没考100？”
That anecdotally observed difference is the subject of a new report by four respected child development experts comparing Chinese and American parenting, and looking at which achieves more. It focuses not just on academic success but also on emotional well-being, and it rates them equally. In other words: Academic achievement matters, but so does happiness.
四位著名儿童发展专家对中美父母的育儿方式进行了比较，并研究了哪种方式能取得更大成就。上面的趣闻里观察到的差异，就是他们的新报告的主题。这项研究关注的不仅是学习成绩，而且还有情感健康，而且在评分中对这两个方面给予了同等的重视。换句话说：学习成绩的确重要，但幸福也很重要。
“Raising Happy Children Who Succeed in School: Lessons From China and the United States,” published in the June issue of the journal Child Development Perspectives, can perhaps be seen as an academic response to “Tiger Mom.” That’s the style of parenting popularized by the Asian-American author Amy Chua, who lauded, somewhat tongue-in-cheek, the academic-achievement-at-all-costs approach of Asian and Asian-American parents in her book “Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother.”
《培养学业有成的幸福小孩：中美教育的启示》(Raising Happy Children Who Succeed in School: Lessons From China and the United States)是发表在《儿童发展视野》(Child Development Perspectives)杂志6月刊上的一篇文章。它或许是对“虎妈”(Tiger Mom)的学术回应。“虎妈”式家庭教育因为亚裔美国作家蔡美儿(Amy Chua)而广为人知。蔡美儿在她的书《虎妈战歌》(Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother)中，半开玩笑半认真地对亚洲及美国的亚裔家长不惜一切代价，让孩子在学业上取得成就的教育方式表达了赞扬。
The scholars’ conclusion, carefully phrased and drawing on three dozen research studies: While high-pressure, high-control “Tiger Mom” parenting does yield better academic results, especially in math and science, it may also produce “dampened happiness” and “dampened emotional functioning” in children.
这些学者的结论措辞谨慎，并借鉴了近40项研究：虽然高压、控制严格的“虎妈”式家教的确能使孩子们取得更好的学习成绩，特别是在数学和理科方面，但它可能会“抑制孩子的幸福感”、“抑制孩子的情绪功能”。
“Given dampened feelings of worth and happiness among Chinese, we point to the costs of the Chinese style for children’s emotional functioning,” write the authors, Eva M. Pomerantz and Yang Qu of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Florrie Fei-Yin Ng of the Chinese University of Hong Kong and Cecilia Sin-Sze Cheung of the University of California, Riverside. And they warn, “We diverge from the perspective that Americans should adopt the Chinese style.”
报告中写道，“中国人的价值感和幸福感受到了抑制，我们认为这是中国式家庭教育对孩子的情绪功能所产生的后果。”该文章的作者是伊利诺伊大学厄巴纳-香槟分校(University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign)的伊娃·M·波梅兰茨(Eva M. Pomerantz)和屈洋（音译）、香港中文大学(Chinese University of Hong Kong)的伍斐然(Florrie Fei-Yin Ng)和加州大学河滨分校(University of California, Riverside)的张倩斯（Cecilia Sin-Sze Cheung，音译）。他们警告称，“对于美国人应该采纳中国式家教的观念，我们持不同意见。”
What are the major differences? First, the researchers say, Chinese parents, whether they live in China or the United States, “are more involved in children’s learning than American parents, beginning as early as preschool.” That alone teaches children to value learning more, leading them to perform better, they say.
这两种育儿方式的主要差异是什么？研究人员表示，首先，不管中国父母是住在中国还是美国，他们都要比美国父母“更深地介入孩子的学业，这种介入早在学龄前就开始了。”他们说，单是这一点，就教会了孩子们更重视学业，促使他们去获得更好的表现。
At the same time, “Chinese parents tend to be more controlling in general in that they pressure children, such that they regulate their feelings, thoughts and behaviors more than American parents.”
同时，“总体而言，中国父母比美国父母更倾向于控制孩子，在这个过程中会向孩子施加压力，进而管理孩子的情绪、思想和行为。”
American parents, by contrast, focus on building their children’s autonomy.
与之相对比，美国父母则着重于培养孩子的自主性。
Chinese parents focus more on failure. As the authors put it, “Chinese parents place less emphasis on children’s success (e.g. by praising children less) than American parents, concentrating instead on children’s mistakes.”
中国父母更关注于失败。正如作者所说，“和美国父母相比，中国父母对孩子的成就强调得较少（例如，他们对孩子的称赞较少）。相反，他们把注意力集中在了孩子的错误上。”
Chinese parents are more likely to tell their children, “You only got six out of 12?” than to say, “You are so smart!” as American parents do, the authors say.
作者说，中国父母更可能对孩子说，“你在12个人里只排第六？”而不是像美国父母那样说，“你真聪明！”
When Chinese children fail, their parents talk about how they lack ability or effort, the researchers say. When American children fail, their parents “minimize it (e.g. by attending to what the children did right.)”
研究人员称，如果中国孩子失败了，父母会说他们如何如何缺乏能力，或者是不够努力。如果美国孩子失败了，他们的父母则会“把失败最小化”（例如，把关注点转到孩子做得好的地方）。
In other words: Chinese moms really do tend toward being critical and controlling, whereas American moms really do tend toward being — perhaps irrationally — supportive. (And dads, too, for that matter — the authors do not distinguish.)
换言之：中国母亲的确更爱挑剔和控制，而美国母亲的确更爱给予支持——虽说也许有些盲目。（就这一点而言，父亲也一样——作者并没有区分父母在这方面的差异。）
But the Chinese style “predicts enhanced achievement among children,” meaning higher grades. “The gap is unlikely to be superficial,” the authors write, with Chinese children strongly motivated by their parents’ attitudes, which gives them “an edge.”
不过，中式教育“预示着孩子将取得更大的成就”，意即更高的分数。作者们写道，“这种差异不太可能只是表象，由于中国孩子的积极性受到父母态度的强烈调动，这让他们占了“上风”。
The American style, for its part, can produce “enhanced emotional functioning,” they say.
作者认为，美式教育就其本身而言，能产生“更强的情绪功能”。
“In the United States, although academic functioning is valued, so are other types of functioning, with parents emphasizing the well-rounded child,” they write.
他们写道，“在美国，尽管学术功能受到重视，但其他类型的功能也一样，父母强调的是孩子的全面发展。”
Which leads to the question: Can the two styles be integrated for optimum results?
人们不禁要问：这两种方式能够融为一体，从而产生最佳功效吗？
The authors seem cautious about this possibility, pointing out that parenting is deeply rooted in culture and tends to be part of a package from which it is hard to extract or mix elements at will.
作者对这种可能性似乎出言谨慎。他们指出，育儿方式有着深厚的文化根基，往往蕴含在一套文化传统中。若想单独提取某些元素，或是把它们随心所欲地混合在一起，绝非易事。
But if you could, what would such parenting look like?
不过，假如能够做到，这种育儿方式会是什么样？
“Parents would be highly involved in children’s learning, but in an autonomy-supportive, rather than controlling, manner that facilitated children’s development academically and emotionally,” they write. “This would mean less control in China and more involvement in the United States.”
他们写道，“父母会高度介入孩子的学业，不过方式上会更支持自主性，而不是加以控制，从而同时促进孩子的学业和情绪发展。这将意味着，让中国父母减少对孩子的控制，让美国父母更多地介入对孩子的培养。”