In a scene close to the end of the 2011 superhero film “Thor,” the two central characters confront each other. They are brothers, although Loki, played by the British actor Tom Hiddleston, has just denied this. “Loki, this is madness,” says Thor (Chris Hemsworth). “Is it madness?” Mr. Hiddleston responds, his face quivering with intensity, his breath ragged, his eyes filming with tears. “Is it? Is it?”
在2011年的超级英雄大片《雷神》(Thor)接近尾声的一幕中，两个主要人物对峙。他们是兄弟，不过，由英国演员汤姆·希德勒斯顿(Tom Hiddleston)扮演的洛基(Loki)刚刚否认了这一点。“洛基，这太疯狂了，”托尔（克里斯·赫姆斯沃思[Chris Hemsworth]饰）说。“这疯狂吗？”希德勒斯顿回答说。他的脸因激动而颤抖，他喘着气，眼睛里噙满了泪水。“是吗？是吗？”
For a few memorable moments, a multimillion-dollar, wham-bam comics-based action movie is a study of fraternal love and hate, of familial rage and thwarted hope, of the strange combination of nature and nurture that governs an individual’s actions. It’s not the only moment in “Thor,” and its sequel, “Thor: The Dark World,” which opens Friday, when Mr. Hiddleston achieves this kind of Shakespearean resonance.
这部投资数百万美元、根据漫画改编的火爆动作电影讲述的一个奇异的组合：兄弟爱恨，家庭纷争，破灭的希望，以及控制个人行为的先天与后天因素。在《雷神》以及周五上映的《雷神2：黑暗世界》(Thor: The Dark World)中，希德勒斯顿不只一次表现出这种莎士比亚式的共鸣。
There’s a reason for that. Mr. Hiddleston, 32, is a classically trained British actor of the most classic kind, and the latest in a long line of British performers to move with remarkable dexterity between Serious Theater and mass-market cinematic fame. (He also makes a fine contribution to the noble tradition of evil, soft-voiced British villains.)
这是有原因的。32岁的希德勒斯顿是接受过最传统的戏剧培训的英国演员，是众多在严肃戏剧和大众电影市场之间灵活游走的英国演员中的新星（他还扮演过很多邪恶的、尖声细语的英国匪徒）。
His résumé is impeccable: He attended Eton, Cambridge University, then the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts — each on its own a notable producer of acting talent. He was a member of the celebrated Cheek by Jowl ensemble and recently portrayed both Prince Hal and Henry V in the BBC-PBS Shakespearean series “The Hollow Crown,” to much critical acclaim. He has played F. Scott Fitzgerald in Woody Allen’s “Midnight in Paris,” had featured parts in projects as varied as Steven Spielberg’s “War Horse” and the television series “Wallander,” and has starred in several small-scale movies.
他的履历无可挑剔：先后上了伊顿公学、剑桥大学和皇家戏剧艺术学院——这三所学校都孕育过很多杰出的演员。他是著名的Cheek by Jowl戏剧社的成员，最近在BBC和PBS频道播出的莎士比亚剧集《空王冠》(The Hollow Crown)中扮演哈尔王子和亨利五世，获得了评论家的诸多好评。他在伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)的《午夜巴黎》(Midnight in Paris)中扮演F·斯科特·菲茨杰拉德(F. Scott Fitzgerald)，还在斯蒂芬·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)的《战马》(War Horse)和电视剧《神探维兰德》(Wallander)中出演各有特色的角色，并主演了几部小制作电影。
But it wasn’t until he won the role of the nefarious (or is he?) god of mischief, Loki, in the Disney-Marvel Studios franchise that includes “Thor” and “The Avengers” that Mr. Hiddleston hit the A-list. Now he has fan clubs, a serious Twitter following and gossip column inches.
但是希德勒斯顿是在迪斯尼和漫威漫画工作室合拍的系列大片《雷神》和《复仇者联盟》(The Avengers)中出演邪恶（邪恶吗？）之神洛基之后，才跻身一线演员的。如今，他有了粉丝俱乐部，Twitter上有一群追随者，八卦专栏也经常提到他。
“The fame thing is so odd,” Mr. Hiddleston said in a recent interview at the Wolseley restaurant here, just a few minutes before a woman stopped by to congratulate him on his role in a coming Jim Jarmusch movie. He continued, speaking of Loki, “It’s interesting that I’ve had that wide impact in a role that is so unlike me.”
“名声这件事真是古怪，”希德勒斯顿最近在沃尔斯利餐馆接受采访时说。几分钟后，一个女人走过来祝贺他在即将上映的吉姆·贾木许(Jim Jarmusch)的电影中出演角色。他继续谈论洛基，“有趣的是，让我获得广泛影响力的那个角色跟我本人一点儿都不像。”
It’s true that the real-life Mr. Hiddleston doesn’t much resemble Loki, with his vampiric pallor, long black hair and impassive, mocking stare. In person, he is unobtrusively handsome, with light brown curly hair, an open, friendly manner and the physical elegance of a (very tall) dancer. He is also articulate, thoughtful and given to poetic turns of phrase.
的确如此，现实生活中的希德勒斯顿不怎么像那个脸色苍白、留着黑色长发、眼神冷漠嘲弄的洛基。他本人英俊得不是很显眼，留着浅棕色的卷发，举止开朗友好，具有（身材高挑的）舞者的优雅体态。他善于表达，思维缜密，措辞有诗意。
Asked if he wanted to be an actor from a young age, he said it wasn’t that cut and dried: “It’s rather like a murmuration of swallows. You can’t tell which bird made the first move, it just takes shape.” He added: “I’m wary of imposing narratives from a safe distance. It’s always more arbitrary than it seems.”
当被问及他是否在很年轻的时候就想当演员时，他说并不是早就定好的：“更像是一群燕子发出的咕咕声，你不知道是哪只鸟叫的第一声，事情就这么发生了，”他补充说，“我特别注意从客观的角度进行讲述。事情总是比表面看上去的更随意。”
Mr. Hiddleston grew up in Oxford, the middle child of a Scottish father who ran a pharmaceutical company, and an English mother who had worked as a stage manager. He was 13 or 14, he said, when he first thought seriously about acting.
希德勒斯顿在牛津长大，在三个孩子们中排行老二，父亲是苏格兰人，经营一家制药公司，母亲是英格兰人，是个舞台监理。他说自己第一次认真考虑当演员是在十三四岁的时候。
“I saw Richard Eyre’s production of Ibsen’s ‘John Gabriel Borkman,’ and it hit me like a train,” he said. “I had that wonderful Alice-down-the-rabbit-hole experience of developing an insatiable appetite for watching and reading that I think is very particular to those adolescent years.”
“我看了理查德·埃尔(Richard Eyre)导演的易卜生(Ibsen)的戏剧《约翰·加布里埃尔·布克曼》(John Gabriel Borkman)，它对我产生了强烈的冲击，”他说，“我像爱丽丝漫游幻境那样，对看戏和阅读产生了无穷无尽的兴趣，我觉得这种情况在青春期是十分罕见的。”
He acted as much as he could at Eton, and in his final year, the school took a production of “Journey’s End,” the 1928 R. C. Sherriff drama about World War I soldiers, to the Edinburgh International Festival, where it won rave reviews. It was a turning point, Mr. Hiddleston said, the moment when he made a silent decision to become a professional actor. He nonetheless went to Cambridge to pursue a degree in Latin and Greek (“I had worked too hard to get there to miss out”), joined the university’s famously strong drama club and was spotted in his second semester by an agent, who told him she would get him jobs during his vacations.
在伊顿公学就读期间，他一有机会就表演，最后一年，该校在爱丁堡国际艺术节上演出R·C·谢里夫(R. C. Sherriff)1928年的关于“一战”士兵的戏剧《旅行的终点》(Journey’s End)，获得了热烈好评。希德勒斯顿说，那是个转折点，他默默决定做一名专业演员。不过他决定先去剑桥读取拉丁语和希腊语学位（“我特别努力才考上了剑桥，所以不舍得放弃”），并加入了该校著名的戏剧俱乐部。第二个学期一个经纪人发现了他，说会在假期给他找些工作。
Professional work, including two HBO productions, “Conspiracy” and “The Gathering Storm,” soon came his way — although never during the vacations. Mr. Hiddleston found himself “reading Cicero on set in full costume,” but managed to graduate with top marks. (Yes, as well as handsome and poetic, he is also clever.)
很快他就开始了自己的职业生涯，包括HBO的电视剧《阴谋》(Conspiracy)和《铁血风暴》(The Gathering Storm)，不过都不是在假期拍摄的。希德勒斯顿发现自己“在片场穿着全套戏服念西塞罗的台词”，不过他还是以优异的成绩毕业了（是的，除了英俊、有诗意，他还很聪明）。
He could have gone straight into acting, but decided instead to attend drama school for three years. “I thought, ‘I’m not trained, and I’ve been lucky,’ ” Mr. Hiddleston said. When he graduated, he found that memories were short. “I kept a diary, with all the details of every audition,” he said. “After about three months, I had to stop, because it was a catalog of failure, a long list of jobs I had failed to get.”
他本可以直接走上演艺道路，但是他决定去戏剧学校学习三年。“我当时想，‘我没受过专业训练，我只是幸运而已,’”希德勒斯顿说。毕业后，他发现记忆只能保持很短一段时间。“我写日记，把每次试演的细节都记下来，”他说，“大约三个月后，我不得不停笔了，因为它变成了失败日志，记录了一长串我没能得到的工作。”
Nevertheless, he eventually won the main role in his first film, Joanna Hogg’s “Unrelated,” from 2007, and theater productions followed that brought him to the attention of Kenneth Branagh, with whom he subsequently worked in a stage production of “Ivanov” and on “Wallander.”
不过，2007年，他在乔安娜·霍格(Joanna Hogg)的《与我无关》(Unrelated)中得到了一个主要角色，那是他的第一部电影。之后他出演了一些戏剧，引起了肯尼斯·布拉纳(Kenneth Branagh)的注意，所以后来出演了她导演的戏剧《伊万诺夫》(Ivanov)和电视系列剧《神探维兰德》(Wallander)。
Still he decided to try his luck with the television pilot season in Los Angeles. “You would turn up for every audition, and there would be a line of identical tall, blond 29-year-olds,” he remembered. “It was incredibly stressful. I didn’t sleep and I didn’t get any parts.”
不过他还是决定去洛杉矶的电视试演季碰碰运气。“只要有试演我就去，在那里能遇到很多跟我一样高大、头发金黄的29岁小伙子，”他回忆说，“当时我压力特别大，晚上睡不着觉，但是什么角色也没得到。”
Then came his big break. Mr. Branagh, who was directing “Thor,” called him to audition for the title role. He made the shortlist, and was told to put on as much muscle as possible for a screen test six weeks later.
然后他的事业出现了重大突破。《雷神》的导演布拉纳打来电话，让他参加雷神的试演。他进入了终选名单，并被告知为六周后的试镜尽量多练出些肌肉。
“I think before, my own fear of both success and failure would have stopped me,” he said. “But I knew Ken knew what I could do, and I remember thinking: ‘I am never going to get closer. I might as well go for it.’ I put on 25 percent more muscle, got down to 7 percent body fat, knew my lines inside out. I was a man possessed.”
“我觉得之前对成功和失败的恐惧阻挠了我，”他说，“但我知道肯（肯尼斯的昵称——译注）了解我的能力，我记得当时我想：‘我不能再功败垂成了，我要全力以赴。’经过练习，我的肌肉增加了25%，脂肪降到了7%，我把台词背得滚瓜烂熟。我像是着了魔。”
Mr. Hiddleston did not, of course, get the part, but the studio was so impressed by his commitment that he was offered Loki. While “Thor” was dismissed by many critics (“the programmed triumph of commercial calculation over imagination,” A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times), Mr. Hiddleston has generally garnered applause.
当然，希德勒斯顿没有得到那个角色，但是电影公司对他的付出印象深刻，所以让他出演洛基。当《雷神》遭到很多影评家摒弃时（A·O·斯科特[A. O. Scott]在《纽约时报》上写道“商业计算多于想象力”），希德勒斯顿却得到了普遍赞扬。
“It’s Hiddleston’s show,” Charlotte O’Sullivan wrote in a review of “Thor: The Dark World” in The Evening Standard.
“这是希德勒斯顿的戏，”夏洛特·欧沙利文(Charlotte O’Sullivan)在《旗帜晚报》(The Evening Standard)上评论《雷神2：黑暗世界》时写道。
Mr. Hemsworth said he thought Mr. Hiddleston’s performance made Loki a more important character than originally envisioned. “Amongst the chaos and madness of that character, there is an incredible vulnerability and charisma,” Mr. Hemsworth added. “That’s tough to pull off.”
海姆斯沃斯说，他认为是希德勒斯顿的表演让洛基这个角色变得比最初设计的更重要。“那个角色的混乱和疯狂之中还带有不可思议的脆弱和魅力，”海姆斯沃斯补充说，“那很难演出来。”
Both Mr. Hemsworth and Natalie Portman, who plays the scientist Jane Foster, Thor’s love interest, said Mr. Hiddleston’s training had brought an unusual rigor to the filming.
海姆斯沃斯以及在片中扮演托尔的爱人、科学家简·福斯特(Jane Foster)的娜塔莉·波特曼(Natalie Portman)都说，希德勒斯顿接受的专业训练给拍摄带来了非同寻常的严谨。
“It is much less common to have his level of seriousness and attention to detail on this kind of film,” Ms. Portman said in a telephone interview.
“他的认真以及对细节的关注在这类电影中很不常见，”波特曼在电话采访中说。
Fans certainly agree: More than 30,000 of them have signed a petition urging Marvel to produce a Loki film. But Mr. Hiddleston has other projects on the horizon. Notably, he will be seen as a disaffected vampire, Adam, alongside Tilda Swinton’s Eve in the Jim Jarmusch film “Only Lovers Left Alive,” due in the spring.
他的粉丝当然同意这种说法：有三万多名粉丝联名请求漫威公司拍摄一部关于洛基的电影。但是希德勒斯顿很快将在其他电影中露面。其中最显眼的是，他将和蒂尔达·斯温顿(Tilda Swinton)一起出演吉姆·贾木许的电影《唯爱永生》(Only Lovers Left Alive)，他在片中扮演心生不满的吸血鬼亚当(Adam)，斯温顿扮演夏娃(Eve)。该片将于明年春天上映。
“When I met Tom, I wasn’t thinking of him for Adam, but after talking to him, I knew he would perfectly embody the character,” Mr. Jarmusch said in a telephone interview. “He understood all my references, to English rock ’n’ roll in the ’60s, to Hamlet. His character is very sophisticated, which he also is, but I also wanted him to have an animalistic quality, which he found. He is not a violinist, but he worked for several months to appear to be playing the Paganini in the film. You could throw anything at him, he would incorporate it.”
“我刚见到汤姆的时候，并没打算让他演亚当，但是在跟他交谈之后，我知道他能完美地演绎这个角色，”贾木许在电话采访中说，“他理解我提到的所有东西——英国60年代的摇滚乐，哈姆雷特。他的角色非常复杂，他本人也是这样的，但是我还想让他表现出兽性的一面，他也表现出来了。他不是小提琴手，但是为了在电影中看起来像是在拉《帕格尼尼随想曲》，他练了好几个月。不管你跟他讲什么，他都能吸收。”
Mr. Hiddleston returns to theater next, in the title role in Shakespeare’s “Coriolanus” at the Donmar Warehouse in London. Asked how he adapted to the shifts between stage and screen, Mr. Hiddleston said that essentially the task was always the same one.
之后希德勒斯顿将重返戏剧舞台，在伦敦唐马仓库剧院的莎士比亚戏剧《科里奥兰纳斯》(Coriolanus)中扮演主角。当被问及他如何在戏剧舞台和电影之间来回切换时，他说，从本质上讲，他的任务是一样的。
“Your job as an actor is to find a way of being truthful in those particular circumstances,” he said. “After that it is simple.”
“演员的工作就是想方法在那些特定的场景中表现得很真实，”他说，“剩下的就很简单了。”