IN Queens, a guy working in his garage churned out “Pollocks” and “Rothkos” that fooled the experts, sold for millions of dollars and helped destroy the Knoedler & Company gallery, as we learned in recent months. In China, thousands of artisans have forged the country’s artistic treasures, both ancient and modern, according to a report in The New York Times.
正如我们在近几个月得知的，某人在纽约皇后区的自家车库里大量炮制了杰克逊·波洛克(Jackson Pollock)和马克·罗斯科(Mark Rothko)的作品，这些伪作骗过了专家，卖出了数百万美元，使诺德勒画廊(Knoedler & Company)毁于一旦。根据《纽约时报》的一篇报道，在中国，数以千计的画匠伪造了该国的艺术瑰宝，其中既有古代的、也有现代的。
Our first instinct is to marvel at the forgers’ skill and lament their misdeeds. But while forgery is very clearly an economic crime, it may not always be an artistic or aesthetic one. Forgers can even be an art lover’s friend.
我们本能的第一反应是，惊叹作伪者的技艺，痛惜作伪者的不端行为。不过，尽管作伪显然在经济上是一种犯罪，但在艺术或美学上，并不总是罪行。作伪者甚至可能是艺术爱好者的朋友。
Sometimes, they give us works that great artists simply didn’t get around to making. If a fake is good enough to fool experts, then it’s good enough to give the rest of us pleasure, even insight. The late Swiss collector Ernst Beyeler called a fake Rothko from Queens a “sublime unknown masterwork” in 2005 and hung it in his namesake museum. Why not think of that picture as the sublime masterwork that Rothko happened not to have got around to? Is it a bad thing if thousands more people in China get to own works by the great modern master Qi Baishi — even if the works they own aren’t actually by him? In some ways, they are by him, in the profound sense that they almost perfectly capture his unique contribution to art. If they didn’t, no one would imagine he’d made them.
有时，作伪者给我们奉上的，不过是伟大的艺术家当初没抽出时间创作的作品。如果一件赝品好得足以让专家上当，那么它就能好到让其他人心生愉悦，甚至产生自己的见解。2005年，已故的瑞士收藏家恩斯特·贝耶勒(Ernst Beyeler)把来自皇后区的一幅罗斯科赝品称为“不知名的绝妙佳作”，并把它挂在自己的同名博物馆里。为什么不把这幅画看成是罗斯科恰好没时间绘出的绝妙佳作？如果拥有现代绘画大师齐白石作品的中国人——即使他们拥有的作品不是真迹——还能再多出几千人，这会是坏事吗？从某个方面说，它们的确是他的作品，它们以一种深刻的领悟，近乎完美地汲取了齐白石对艺术独一无二的贡献。如果不是这些伪作，就没有人能想得到，齐白石创作了这些画中体现的理念。
Forgers also remind us that great art depends on the ideas of artists, not necessarily on their actual hands. Many wonderful works of art by figures such as Titian, Rembrandt and Rubens were executed partly or even mostly by their studio assistants, which doesn’t make them any less expressive of Titian or Rembrandt’s innovations. For nearly two decades, our forger in Queens managed to fool both the dealers at Knoedler and their art-savvy clients, and the only reason his fakes could exist and succeed is because the true achievement of Pollock and Rothko was to come up with a set of ideas and procedures for making art. The faker could be considered a faithful assistant of theirs who happened to arrive after they’d died; ditto the hundreds of forgers of Qi Baishi.
作伪者还提醒我们，伟大的艺术依赖于艺术家的见解，而不一定依赖于他们的双手。类似于提香(Titian)、伦勃朗(Rembrandt)、鲁本斯(Rubens)等巨匠的许多非凡的艺术作品中，部分、甚至大部分是由他们的画室助手动笔完成的，提香或伦勃朗在艺术创新上的表现力，没有因此而减少半分。在过去的近20年里，皇后区的作伪者设法让诺德勒的交易商和他们那些精通艺术的客户上了当，他的赝品能够存世及成功的唯一原因是，波洛克和罗斯科的真正贡献在于，他们提出了一套创作艺术品的观念和步骤。作伪者可以被视为一名忠心耿耿的助手，只是刚好在画家去世后才出现；数百名齐白石画作的作伪者亦是如此。
We may also want to bless forgers for helping to tame our absurd art market. If speculators eventually are scared off by the danger of being stuck with fakes, prices may fall.
我们还想祝福作伪者，因为他们有助于遏制荒谬的艺术市场。如果投机者最终被买到赝品的危险吓退，价格也许就会下降一些。
In the last decade, reported revenues from the Chinese auction market have expanded ninefold, now higher than those of its American counterpart. Records have been set for Chinese masters that compete with the West’s already inflated prices for Warhol and Picasso — if such records even end up holding, given some buyers who are refusing to pay because of doubts about authenticity.
过去10年里，中国拍卖市场报道的收入已经增长了9倍，目前，中国的拍卖收入比美国同类市场还高。中国绘画大师的作品，与西方市场上已经极高的沃霍尔(Warhol)及毕加索(Picasso)画作一竞高下，屡创拍卖纪录——如果其拍卖价仍能维持在这个水平的话，毕竟有些卖家因为怀疑作品的真实性而拒绝付款。
In a market depressed and made anxious by fakes, investors and private collectors may start pulling out, leaving more room for museums to buy at prices they can afford, which in turn would be good news for any art lover who depends on our public collections. And, since museums don’t have to think about net worth and reselling (let’s forget the Detroit case for a moment), they can live with the risk of maybe having bought a fake. Their audience might still enjoy and learn from the new “Rothko” in the collection.
在一个因赝品而陷入低迷和疑虑的市场，投资者和私人藏家也许会开始撤退，于是就给博物馆留下一些余地，让它们能以负担得起的价格购入艺术品，而这对任何一个依赖公共收藏的艺术爱好者来说，都是一个好消息。而且，由于博物馆不一定要考虑资产净值和转售（暂且不谈底特律的个案），它们是能够冒着买到赝品的风险存活下去的。他们的观众可能依然会从馆藏中新的“罗斯科”作品中得到乐趣、有所收获。
Our current market, geared toward the ultra-wealthy, is helping few and hurting many. It stomps down all the emerging and midlevel dealers, artists, curators and even collectors who can’t play in the big-money game. It’s also hurting all the art lovers, current and future, who deserve work that’s conceived to address artistic issues, not to sell well to robber barons. If forgers can help burst our art bubble, blessings be upon them.
当前的市场面向的是超级富豪，只对极少人有好处，但是伤害了很多人。它打击了所有新兴的，以及中等水平的交易商、艺术家、策展人，甚至收藏家，他们没有实力参加必须手握巨资才能参加的游戏；也伤害了所有现在以及未来的艺术爱好者，他们理应从事与思忖艺术问题有关的工作，而不是向强盗贵族兜售艺术品。如果作伪者能够帮忙戳破艺术市场的泡沫，那我祝福他们。
Finally, forgers teach us to doubt connoisseurs. There’s a myth out there, propagated by the market and some strains of academe, that certain thoroughbred experts can smell authentic art at 100 yards. After more than a century of bad attributions, reattributions and long-lived fakes, you’d think we would know better than to believe in such fantasy creatures. The truth is, the connoisseur’s eye works brilliantly in that vast majority of attributions where an artwork comes without a name attached but clearly has a single maker’s signature look. And then that eye fails utterly in those remaining, more iffy cases where a piece looks quite like some artist’s work, but may almost as easily be by someone else — including a forger.
最后，作伪者教会我们要怀疑鉴赏家。市场和一些学术界人士传播了一个误区，那就是接受过严格训练的专家，能在100码之外就嗅出真迹的味道。一个多世纪以来，把艺术品的作者弄错、重新鉴定艺术品作者，以及赝品长期没有被人发现的事例层出不穷，在这之后，你一定认为我们已经学聪明了，不会再相信鉴赏家这种神奇的生物了。事实上，大多数情况下，鉴赏家可以很好地鉴别出一件艺术品的作者，因为这些作品明显具有某位创作者的标志性特征。然而在其他更加不确定的情况下，鉴赏家就束手无策了，比如一件艺术品看起来很像出自某位艺术家之手，但是其作者也非常可能另有其人——包括作伪者。
Every time an expert is fooled by a fake, the faker has once again taught us that connoisseurship is not to be trusted. More important, we’re reminded that the whole idea of a unique artistic “touch,” along with the ideal of “authenticity” that goes with it, may be beside the point in our understanding of art.
每当一名专家被赝品糊弄过去的时候，作伪者都在教育我们，鉴赏家的本领不足为信。更重要的是，这提醒了我们，独一无二的艺术“笔触”，以及对“真实性”的推崇，在我们对艺术的理解中或许无关紧要。
An essay by Alexander Nagel, a professor of Renaissance art at the Institute of Fine Arts in New York, argues that “forgery” is a concept that barely existed in Western art before around 1500, when the art market was invented and a new cast of players who came to be known as “dealers,” “collectors,” “connoisseurs” — and forgers — was born. Before that moment a copy could stand in perfectly well for an earlier work of art, so long as it transmitted the same “essential content,” as Mr. Nagel puts it, and could fill the same religious or commemorative functions. When a great Byzantine icon was copied, the new version was felt to have the same relationship to its divine subject as the older one, and so could do the same cultural work. What would it mean to “forge” a picture, in a world where originals and copies could be interchanged?
纽约大学美术研究所(Institute of Fine Arts)研究文艺复兴艺术的亚历山大·内格尔教授(Alexander Nagel)在一篇文章中称，差不多在公元1500年以前，“造假”这个概念在西方艺术领域根本不存在。当时艺术品市场刚刚出现，被称为“交易商”、“收藏家”和“鉴赏家”——还有作伪者——的一批新角色诞生了。在此之前， 模仿之作完全可以代替早先的艺术作品，用内格尔的话说，只要它传达了同样的“核心内容”，并且能够实现同样的宗教或纪念功能。如果一个伟大的拜占庭人物肖像被人临摹，在人们的感受中，新版本与画中人物的关系与老的版本一样，也能具有同样的文化功能。在一个原创作品和模仿作品可以互相取代的世界，说某人“伪造”了一幅图画根本就没有意义。
Even as far back as ancient Rome, Mr. Nagel shows, it was considered utterly normal to copy the Greek statues of Praxiteles or Polyclitus, even while altering them. Patrons wanted access to the larger aesthetic ideas and ideals of their artistic geniuses; they didn’t think of works of art “as singularities, as unrepeatable performances by an author,” as Mr. Nagel puts it.
内格尔说，甚至早在古罗马时期，复制普拉克西特列斯(Praxiteles)和波留克列特斯(Polyclitus)创作的古希腊塑像也是完全正常的，甚至还可以做一些改动。资助人想从他们的艺术天赋中获得更宏大的美学观点和理想。内格尔说，他们不认为艺术品是“独有的”，也不认为它们“是一位作者不可复制的成果”。
Some of the 20th century’s most important creators set out to undermine ideas of unique, authentic, hand-touched works of art. Precisely 100 years ago, when Marcel Duchamp began presenting store-bought bicycle wheels, urinals and bottle racks as ready-made sculptures, he was also inviting others to buy and show similar masterworks. A half-century later, Andy Warhol was famously freewheeling when it came to notions of authenticity: You could never tell, and weren’t supposed to know, how much if any of a Warhol painting had actually been made by him versus by some acolyte in his art Factory. (In interviews, Warhol would sometimes attribute his works to others even when he’d executed them himself.) The art market can’t stand the slippages such ideas introduce, and insists on selling Warhols and Duchamps the way you’d sell a Lincoln autograph. Forgers, on the other hand, help preserve modern art’s productive uncertainty.
20世纪一些最重要的艺术家们试图打破有关独一无二的、原创的、有作者本人笔触的艺术品的观念。整整100年前，马塞尔·杜尚(Marcel Duchamp)开始把从商店购买的自行车的轮、小便器和瓶子架作为现成的雕塑品进行展示，他还邀请其他人购买和展示类似的杰作。半个世纪之后，安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)在原创的概念上的天马行空人尽皆知：你永远也说不出、也不会知道沃霍尔的画作中有多少是他自己创作的，有多少是他“工厂”(Factory)里的助手完成的。（在接受采访时，沃霍尔有时会把自己的作品归于他人名下，尽管是他本人亲手创作的。）艺术市场不能容忍这种想法引进来的沦落，坚持要像销售林肯的签名那样销售沃霍尔和杜尚的作品。另一方面，作伪者却帮助保存了现代艺术创作上的不确定性。