SEOUL, South Korea — The only sister of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, will visit South Korea this week, the first immediate member of the North’s ruling family ever to set foot in the South, officials said on Wednesday.
韩国首尔——朝鲜官员周三表示，朝鲜领导人金正恩唯一的妹妹将于本周访问韩国，她将成为统治朝鲜的这个家族中首位踏上韩国土地的人。
Kim Yo-jong, Mr. Kim’s younger sister and a key player in his secretive regime, will arrive in South Korea on Friday as part of North Korea’s 22-member government delegation that will attend the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics later that day. The North Korean delegation’s three-day itinerary includes a meeting with President Moon Jae-in of the South.
金正恩的妹妹金与正是其神秘政权中的一名关键人物。她将作为朝鲜22名官员组成的政府代表团的一员，于周五抵达韩国，出席当晚举行的冬季奥运会开幕式。朝鲜代表团的三天日程包括与韩国总统文在寅见面。
Her bloodline gives her an unmatched status among North Korean elites. She is also considered Mr. Kim’s closest relative. The South Korean news media call her “Kim Jong-un’s Ivanka,” likening her influence with her brother to that of Ivanka Trump’s on her father, President Trump. The North’s state news media often shows top-ranking officials listening reverentially when Ms. Kim speaks.
金与正的血统给她带来了党内权贵无法比拟的地位。她也被认为是金正恩最亲密的亲戚。韩国新闻媒体称她为“金正恩的伊万卡”，把她对哥哥的影响比作伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)对父亲特朗普总统的影响。朝鲜的官方新闻媒体常发图片显示，她发言时，最高级别的官员都在认真恭听。
And she will be coming to a spectacle that is also drawing Vice President Mike Pence, who will be at the opening ceremony Friday, and Ms. Trump, who is expected at the closing ceremony. The gathering is prompting speculation about some previously unthinkable get-togethers.
她将参加的盛典也引来了美国副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)，他将出席周五的开幕式；此外，伊万卡预计将出席闭幕式。这次奥运会引发了人们对一些以前无法想象的聚会的猜测。
The North’s delegation is officially led by Kim Yong-nam, the 90-year-old president of the Presidium of the North’s Parliament and the country’s nominal head of state. But being a sister of Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s “monolithic” leader, Ms. Kim will become the focus of intense attention.
朝鲜代表团由金永南(Kim Yong-nam)正式率领。金永南现年90岁，是朝鲜最高人民会议常任委员会委员长和名义上的国家元首。但作为朝鲜“唯一核心”领导人金正恩的妹妹，金与正将成为高度关注的焦点。
It remains unclear whether Ms. Kim or any other North Korean official will be carrying any message to Mr. Moon from Mr. Kim. The South Korean president has been eager to use the North’s Olympic participation as a way to ease tensions spurred by its nuclear and missile tests in the past year.
目前还不清楚金与正或其他朝鲜官员是否会向文在寅转达任何来自金正恩的口信。这位韩国总统一直希望利用朝鲜参加奥运会的机会，来缓解因朝鲜在过去一年中进行核试验和导弹试验而引发的紧张局势。
Ms. Kim, 30, has emerged as an important player in her brother’s government since Mr. Kim replaced their father, Kim Jong-il, as supreme leader in 2011. She is believed to be a deputy director of the ruling Workers’ Party’s Department of Propaganda and Agitation, a key post in the propaganda-heavy totalitarian state.
自从金正恩于2011年接替父亲金正日成为国家最高领导人以来，现年30岁的金与正就以哥哥政府中的重要一员出现在人们面前。据信，她担任执政的劳动党的宣传煽动部的副部长。在这个重视宣传的极权主义国家，这是一个关键位置。
She is the only relative of her brother’s who appears in North Korea’s news media, accompanying her brother in state ceremonies or in his “guidance tours” of factories and farms. She is often seen carrying texts of Mr. Kim’s speeches or standing in the background, smiling and even frolicking, while other senior grim-faced officials stand close to Mr. Kim in reverence and fear.
她是出现在朝鲜新闻媒体上的金正恩的唯一亲戚，常陪同哥哥参加国家庆典，或去工厂和农场的“指导视察”。人们经常看到她手里拿着金正日的讲话稿，或站在后面、面带微笑，有时甚至嬉闹；而其他高级官员则表情严肃地站在金正恩旁边，满怀敬意和恐惧。
In October, she became the youngest member of the Politburo, the main decision-making body of the party. She sat in the front row of a leadership platform in a party meeting in December.
去年10月，她成为劳动党政治局中最年轻的成员。政治局是党的决策机构。她在12月的一次党的会议上坐在主席台的前排。
Mr. Kim has an older brother, Kim Jong-chol, who has never been seen in the North Korean media and whose role, if any, remains a mystery. He was last spotted at an Eric Clapton concert in London in 2015, but little else is known of him. Ms. Kim and her brothers studied in Switzerland as teenagers.
金正恩还有一个叫金正哲(Kim Jong-chol)的哥哥，金正哲从未在朝鲜媒体上露过面，他的角色（如果有的话）仍是个谜。他最近一次被人看到是2015年在伦敦的埃里克·克莱普顿(Eric Clapton)演唱会上，外界对他知之甚少。金与正曾和这两个哥哥一起在瑞士念书。
Kim Jong-un’s older half brother, Kim Jong-nam, was killed in an airport in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in February last year by two women who smeared his face with a rare nerve agent. The assassins, who are on trial, were hired by North Korean agents who analysts said were sent by Kim Jong-un to eliminate a potential threat to his dynastic grip on power.
去年2月，金正恩的同父异母哥哥金正男(Kim Jong-nam)在马来西亚吉隆坡的一个机场被两名女子杀死，她们在他脸上抹了一种罕见的神经毒剂。正在法庭受审的刺客受雇于朝鲜特工，分析人士说，这些特工是金正恩派的，目的是消除对其王朝统治权力的潜在威胁。
Outside officials and analysts consider Ms. Kim the pre-eminent female face of the Kim family, which has ruled North Korea since its founding seven decades ago. Her father, Kim Jong-il, also allowed his own sister, Kim Kyong-hui, to hold prominent jobs in the government until his death in 2011. But she disappeared from view after her husband, Jang Song-thaek, was executed in 2013 by Kim Jong-un on charges of plotting a coup.
外界的官员和分析人士认为，金与正是金氏家族出色的女性形象，自从70年前建国以来，金氏家族一直统治着朝鲜。金与正的父亲金正日在2011年去世前，也一直让自己的妹妹金敬姬(Kim Kyong-hui)在政府中担任重要职务。金敬姬的丈夫张成泽在2013年被金正恩以策划政变的罪名处决后，金敬姬就不再公开露面了。
“Although Kim Yong-nam is the official head of the delegation, it will be Kim Yo-jong who will decide its activities,” said Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at the Sejong Institute in Seoul, South Korea. “By including his sister in the delegation, Kim Jong-un may want to show his interest in improving ties with South Korea.”
“虽然金永南是代表团的官方负责人，但代表团的活动将由金与正来决定，”韩国首尔世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)的高级分析师郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)说。“金正恩把自己的妹妹放在代表团里，可能是想显示他对与韩国改善关系的兴趣。”
Word of Ms. Kim’s visit came as Vice President Pence warned North Korea that it would face a new round of tougher sanctions.
金与正将访问韩国的消息传来时，美国副总统彭斯正警告说，朝鲜将面临新一轮更严厉的制裁。
“The United States of America will soon unveil the toughest and most aggressive round of economic sanctions on North Korea ever — and we will continue to isolate North Korea until it abandons its nuclear and ballistic missile programs once and for all,” he said Wednesday while visiting Japan.
“美利坚合众国将很快宣布对朝鲜实施史上最严厉、最声势浩大的经济制裁措施；我们将继续孤立朝鲜，直到朝鲜彻底放弃其核计划和弹道导弹计划，”彭斯周三在访问日本时说。
But a day earlier, Mr. Pence had stirred speculation about a possible meeting with North Korean officials, saying, “I have not requested a meeting, but we’ll see what happens.”
但就在前一天，彭斯曾引发了关于他可能与朝鲜官员会面的猜测。他说，“我没有提出会面的要求，但我们将视情况而定。”