WASHINGTON — Since the emergence of an unverified dossier with salacious claims about President-elect Donald J. Trump, Americans have debated the ramifications of the arrival of “kompromat” as a feature of American politics.
华盛顿——自从那份未经证实的卷宗指称候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)有淫秽之举后，美国人一直在争论“黑材料”(kompromat)成为美国政治一部分后会产生什么后果。
But those debates — for example, over the ethics of publishing the dossier — have often framed this practice as little more than a political form of blackmail, and one particular to Russia.
但是，那些争论——比如关于发布这份卷宗的道德问题——往往是把这种行为认定为一种政治勒索的形式，尤其是对俄罗斯来说。
In fact, kompromat is more than an individual piece of damaging information: It is a broader attempt to manufacture public cynicism and confusion in ways that target not just one individual but an entire society.
但实际上，黑材料不只是单独的抹黑信息：它是一种在更广泛的层面制造公众怀疑和困惑的企图，不是针对个人，而是针对整个社会。
And although this practice tends to be associated with Russia — the word kompromat is a portmanteau of the Russian words for “compromising” and “information” — it is a common feature of authoritarian and semiauthoritarian nations around the world.
虽然这种行为往往与俄罗斯有关——kompromat这个词就是俄语“抹黑”和“信息”二词的结合——但它是世界各地极权和半极权国家的一个共同特点。
Specific leaks may take aim at powerful individuals, but in the longer term, kompromat serves the interests of the powerful, which is why it is often a tool of autocrats. By eroding the very idea of a shared reality, and by spreading apathy and confusion among a public that learns to distrust leaders and institutions alike, kompromat undermines a society’s ability to hold the powerful to account and ensure the proper functioning of government.
具体某个黑材料可能是针对掌握权力的个人，但从长期看，它其实服务于权势人物的利益，这就是为什么它往往是专权者的工具。通过破坏“共享现实”这个概念本身，通过在公众中散播冷漠和困惑，让公众慢慢不信任领导者和体制，黑材料会损害一个社会追究权势人物的责任、确保政府正常运行的能力。
When Katy E. Pearce, a professor of communications at the University of Washington in Seattle, began studying access to technology in Azerbaijan, she expected to focus her research on how it could be a positive tool for promoting political freedom. But she changed her tack after encountering widespread fear of the ways that the government could use technology as a tool of repression.
当西雅图华盛顿大学(University of Washington)的传播学教授凯蒂·E·皮尔斯(Katy E. Pearce)开始在阿塞拜疆研究技术的享用机会时，她本以为会把研究重点放在技术如何能成为促进政治自由的积极手段。但是，在看到人们对政府可能把技术用作压迫工具的广泛担心后，她改变了研究方向。
“When I was interviewing people, it kept on coming up and coming up,” she said. Kompromat is “a very cheap and easy way for the regime to demonstrate its power, and to harass people in a very visible way,” she added.
“我做采访时，不断看到人们的这种担心，”她说。她还说，黑材料是“一个政权展示自己力量、以明目张胆的方式恐吓民众的一种十分廉价和简便的工具”。
That was a danger and a deterrent for the young activists she spoke to. But individual targets of kompromat are not its only victims, Professor Pearce said. It also harms society by diminishing public trust.
对与她交谈的年轻活动人士而言，那是一种危险和威慑。但皮尔斯表示，这些黑材料损害的不只是个体目标，它也会减少公众的信任，由此损及整个社会。
Thomas Rid, a professor of security studies at King’s College London, wrote on Twitter that disinformation campaigns have “often deliberately blended accurate and forged details” to sow distrust and confusion.
伦敦国王学院(King's College London)的安全研究教授托马斯·里德(Thomas Rid)在Twitter上写道，造谣行动“往往故意将准确和虚假的细节混合在一起”，以制造不信任感和困惑。
If the news media and public figures publicize lies, they lose their credibility as trustworthy sources of information. “There’s no reliable truth to rest upon,” Professor Pearce said. “Every piece of information you get is ‘possibly true, possibly false.’”
如果新闻媒体和公众人物发布谎言，他们会失去作为可靠信源的信誉。“没有可靠的事实可以依凭，”皮尔斯说。“你得到的每条信息都是‘有可能为真，也有可能为假’。”
Degrading that trust can be deeply damaging. While in Russia in 2015, I was struck by how many of the people I met saw the world through a lens that I began to call the “prudent hypothetical.” They reacted to all information, whether from official sources or thirdhand rumors, as if it might be true. I came to realize that it was a self-protective impulse, a way to prepare for any potential outcome in an unpredictable, unreliable world.
这种信任感的破坏会造成严重的后果。2015年在俄罗斯时，我遇到许多人是透过一种我称之为“谨慎假设”的镜头看世界的，人数之多让我震惊。他们对待所有信息的反应，不管是来自官方信源还是转了几道弯的谣言，都好像当它可能是真的。我开始意识到，这是一种自我保护的本能，是一种在无法预测、不可靠的世界里为任何可能的结果做准备的方法。
But they were also careful not to rely on that information, lest it turn out to be a fabrication. They trusted only the facts they had verified themselves, and only the people to whom they had close personal ties.
但他们也小心避免依赖那个信息，以防它最后被证明是假的。他们只相信自己验证过的事实，只信任与他们有紧密私人关系的人。
I had seen the same thing in Guatemala several years earlier. There, spreading lies and salacious gossip to discredit one’s enemies is referred to as a “campaña negra,” or a black campaign, rather than kompromat. But the result was the same: Public trust had been so eroded that lies were equally capable of destroying the honest and rehabilitating the criminal.
几年前，我在危地马拉也见到过同样的情况。在那里，传播谎言和淫秽谣言以破坏对手信誉的手法不叫kompromat，而是称为“campaña negra”，也就是“黑色运动”。但后果是一样的：公众的信任被极大破坏，以致谎言既能恢复罪犯的名誉，也能摧毁诚实的人。
When it appeared that Yasmín Barrios, the judge presiding over the trial of Gen. Efraín Ríos Montt, Guatemala’s former dictator, might convict him of genocide and crimes against humanity in 2013, a campaign of coordinated leaks and rumors portrayed her as a corrupt agent of foreign governments, willing to discredit her country in exchange for personal gain. Leaks and rumors attacked Judge Barrios personally, but by extension, they also undermined the credibility of the justice system in which she worked.
当审理埃弗拉因·里奥斯·蒙特(Efraín Ríos Montt)案件的法官亚丝明·巴里奥斯(Yasmín Barrios)有可能在2013年判这名危地马拉独裁者犯有种族灭绝和反人类罪时，一场有组织的泄密和传播谣言的行动将这名法官描绘成腐败的外国政府代理人，为换取个人利益不惜损害自己祖国的名誉。泄密和谣言攻击了巴里奥斯法官个人，但扩大来讲，它们也破坏了她所在的司法体系的可信度。
For example, the news media reported that the judge had been seen dining with “foreign women” at a restaurant in Guatemala City, and suggested that this was evidence of foreign influence on her rulings. In fact, the “foreigners” were Judge Barrios’s Guatemalan mother, her neighbor, and a nun who was a friend of the family. But the rumors had their desired effect: They discredited not only Judge Barrios but also the genocide trial.
比如，新闻媒体报道称，有人看到这位法官曾在危地马拉市的一家餐厅与“几名外国女人”一起进餐，暗示这就是国外势力影响她判案的证据。事实上，这些“外国人”是巴里奥斯的危地马拉母亲、她的邻居和一位修女，后者是这家人的朋友。但谣言达到了预期的效果：它们不止破坏了巴里奥斯的信誉，也让这场有关种族灭绝罪行的审判变得不可信。
The Guatemalans I met knew that the stories they heard through the news media might be part of disinformation campaigns. But lacking better options, many still saw the world through the lens of the prudent hypothetical, viewing everything as possible and nothing as certain.
我所遇到的危地马拉人知道，自己通过新闻媒体听到的消息，可能是歪曲行动的一部分。但因为缺乏更好的选项，许多人仍然通过谨慎假设的镜头看待这个世界，认为一切都是可能的，没什么事是确定的。
When General Ríos Montt was eventually convicted, many saw him as a victim of foreign machinations rather than a perpetrator of genocide and crimes against humanity. (His conviction was later vacated on procedural grounds.)
当里奥斯·蒙特最终被定罪时，许多人把他看作外国阴谋的受害者，而非犯下种族灭绝和反人类罪的人。（他的判决后来因为程序上的理由被作废。）
Professor Pearce said she saw parallels between the use of kompromat overseas and recent news in the United States.
皮尔斯表示，她发现美国最近的新闻和国外对黑材料的使用有一些相似之处。
Although the Trump dossier purported to be a warning about kompromat elsewhere, she said, it could also be seen as a form of kompromat itself. She listed the parallels to what she had seen in her research: Its content is damaging but unverified. Its distribution was multilayered, with a website — in this case, BuzzFeed — publishing the unverified material and other outlets amplifying its impact by reporting on the ensuing controversy.
她表示，尽管这份特朗普卷宗意在警告别的地方存在黑材料，但它本身也可以看作一种抹黑。她列举了在自己的研究中看到的相似之处：它的内容颇具破坏性，但却未经证实。它的传播是多层次的，通过一个网站——即BuzzFeed——发布未经证实的材料，其他机构则报道后续的争议，由此扩大其影响。
The document also fostered uncertainty and division. Masha Gessen, a Russian journalist, wrote in a recent opinion column in The New York Times that the release of the dossier had allowed Mr. Trump to say that “there was no such thing as truth, only a battle of opinions proffered by different actors, each of whom strives to be loudest.” For some Americans, the dossier sowed concern about Mr. Trump’s vulnerability to Russian influence. Others saw its publication as evidence that Mr. Trump was the victim of a disinformation campaign.
这份文件也带来了不确定性和分歧。俄罗斯记者玛莎·格森(Masha Gessen)最近在发表于《纽约时报》的专栏评论文章中写道，这些资料使特朗普得以宣称，“根本没有真相这种东西，只有各方提出的观点之争，每个人都想做声音最大的那个。”对一些美国人来说，这份文件引发了对特朗普容易受俄罗斯影响的担忧。另一些人则将资料的公开视为一种证据，证明特朗普是一场抹黑行动的受害者。
That may ultimately be to Mr. Trump’s benefit if better-supported allegations against him arise in the future.
如果未来出现针对他的证据更充足的指控，这种情况最终反倒有可能对特朗普有利。
Americans were similarly divided in their views on the hacking of the Democratic National Committee’s computer system. When Russian hackers leaked emails stolen from the committee, some saw it as evidence that Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee, was a victim of foreign machinations, while others viewed the documents’ content as confirmation that Mrs. Clinton was unreliable and dishonest. The leaks distracted from more substantive campaign issues and fueled public distrust and rancor.
在有关民主党全国委员会电脑系统遭黑客袭击一事上，美国人的观点也有类似的分歧。当俄罗斯黑客泄露从该委员会盗取的邮件时，有些人认为这是民主党总统候选人希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)受国外阴谋所害的证明，有些人则认为这些文件的内容证明了克林顿是不可靠和不诚实的。泄密事件分散了人们对更重大的竞选议题的注意力，助长了公众的不信任感和敌意。
Many people in the United States traditionally see the leak of confidential documents by whistle-blowers, like Daniel Ellsberg’s release of the Pentagon Papers, as a way to hold the powerful to account. We tend to believe that transparency serves the public good, and secrecy the interests of the powerful.
在美国，许多人历来将告密者披露机密文件，比如丹尼尔·埃尔斯伯格(Daniel Ellsberg)发布的五角大楼文件，看作向有权势者追责的一种方式。我们倾向于认为信息透明对公众有好处，保密则对有权势者有利。
Such a belief presumes that there is a fixed quantity of hidden information out there that the news media is or is not revealing. But in a kompromat society, incriminating material, real and fake, will be manufactured as needed to serve a political purpose.
这样一种观念认定，新闻媒体披露或未披露的隐藏信息是定量的。但在一个搜集黑材料的社会，显示有罪的材料——不管是真是假——会在需要达成一种政治目的时被制造出来。
To smear a president, undermine a judge or sow distrust in an institution or process, all someone needs to do is create a set of documents salacious enough to attract discussion, persuade some corner of the web to publish them and then wait for the resulting controversy to be reported as news.
为了抹黑一位总统，破坏一位法官的信誉，或在一个制度或程序中制造不信任感，你所需要做的只是制造一系列足够耸动的文件，吸引人们讨论，说服网络的某个角落发布它们，然后等待随之而来的争议被当作新闻报道。
That does not hold the powerful to account. And worse, it undermines the institutions that are supposed to do so.
这并不能让有权势者被追责。更糟糕的是，它损害了那些原本应该做这些工作的机构。
In the United States, Professor Pearce said, “grabbing on and holding to the truth is becoming more challenging.” If kompromat becomes a more widespread tactic, public trust will erode even further.
皮尔斯表示，在美国，“抓住和坚持真相变得更有挑战性了。”如果收集黑材料成为一种更普遍的策略，公众的信任将遭到进一步的破坏。
“A lot of the things that are good about the U.S. are because we have this kind of truth-based scaffolding,” she said. “I don’t want to live in an environment where I’m having to really be skeptical of everything, like people in authoritarian regimes have to be.”
“美国的许多优点源自我们有这种基于信任的框架，”她说。“我不想生活在一个我必须对一切存疑的环境里，就像生活在极权国家的人那样。”
“Living like that is horrible,” she said. “It is exhausting.”
“那样的生活是很可怕的，”她说。“让人精疲力竭。”