PAUL PAIRET, the French-born 49-year-old chef, visited 80 spaces throughout Shanghai before deciding to set Ultraviolet — the restaurant he calls “the project of my life” — in an old recording studio, tucked behind a parking structure, and adjacent to a canal whose shore is dotted with men selling melons from wheelbarrows and flatbed trucks. Building his 10-seat, high-tech, multimedia nightly dinner opera took nearly two years. When Pairet finally served his inaugural meal in May 2012, 8.5 miles of cables and wires had been connected, 12,000 square feet of concrete had been poured, and 36 speakers had been mounted to work in conjunction with 7 high-resolution projectors. A bespoke Molteni range was installed for precision cooking. Brightly colored Sieger tableware was ordered. Zwiesel crystal arrived by the crate.
49岁，生于法国的大厨保罗·佩莱(Paul Pairet)在上海寻访了80个地点，最终决定在一家旧录音棚里建立Ultraviolet（紫外线）餐厅——他将其称之为“我毕生的计划”。它隐藏在一个停车场后面，毗邻运河，河岸上到处都是用手推车和平板货车卖各种瓜果的人。他花了将近两年时间打造这座只有十个客位的多媒体高科技晚餐歌剧院。最后，佩莱决定在2012年5月举办餐厅的开张宴，此时餐厅里共架设了8.5英里长的线缆，铺设了1.2万平方英尺的混凝土，安装了36个扬声器，连接到7个高清投影设备上。为了使烹饪精益求精，餐厅安装了订做的Molteni系列厨具；订购了亮色的Sieger餐具；Zwiesel的水晶器皿也用板条箱装好运抵了。
Since this is billed as “immersive dining,” Pairet hesitates to provide any spoilers. “The more I talk,” he says, speaking English with a husky French accent, “the more I’m going to bias your experience. It should be completely yours. The perception of the meal should be completely based on you.” Pairet is six-foot-two, a stubbly chain smoker, with sideburns thick as New York strips, and dark, serious eyes that convey a continuous stream of concentration. Wearing jeans, a black collarless shirt with a dragon embroidered on the back, and his signature Chinese-style military cap, he’s alluding to a concept he calls “psycho taste,” which posits that eating can act as a gateway to the mind. It delves into the notion that memories, associations, expectations, ideas, misunderstandings, joys and fears all play a role in the experience of a meal. Every person who sits down at the table is essentially consenting to have his psyche probed by a chef who has spent years thinking about how food can prompt emotional triggers.
因为这里号称“沉浸式用餐”，所以佩莱不情愿透露更多内容。“我说得愈多，”他用带点深沉的法国口音英语说，“就愈会影响你的亲身体验，这体验应当完全属于你，对这顿饭的感知应当完全建立在你自身的基础上。”佩莱身高6英尺2英寸（约1米88——译注），胡子拉碴，一支接一支地抽烟；鬓角好像有纽约一个街区那么宽；严肃的黑眼睛充满持续的专注力。他穿着牛仔裤，黑色无领衬衫，后背绣着一条龙，头戴他招牌的中式军帽，随身携带他那叫做“心灵之味”(psycho taste)的餐饮概念，意思是饮食可以成为通往心灵的一扇大门。它深入探讨了这样一个观念：记忆、联系、期望、创意、误解、欢乐和恐惧都可以构成吃一顿饭时的体验。这位厨师用多年时间思考怎样用食物触发人类的情感，而所有坐在桌前的人本质上也同意由一位厨师来探索自己的心灵。
DINNER NO. 243 (each meal is ritualistically numbered) starts like all dinners: with a 6:30 p.m. gathering of 10 strangers at a meeting point in back of Mr. & Mrs. Bund, Pairet’s highly acclaimed albeit more traditional Shanghai restaurant. A greeter passes flutes of palate-cleansing pear cider from Normandy. Ten tickets, each folded 17 times into a tiny leaflet and bearing a pink “UV” logo, are affixed to a tablecloth. An expat German banker grabs at his eagerly; a famous actress from Hong Kong unclips hers gently. Once unfolded, the menu is revealed. It reads gnomically and abstractly, but also evocatively, like a passage from Gertrude Stein’s “Tender Buttons” — “Foie Gras — Can’t Quit Red Fruit Cabbage Ash West & Smoke Ennio Morricone” — citing flavors, textures, sights and sounds, aiming to prime both the appetite and the senses.
第243号晚餐（每顿饭都有仪式性的编号）的开始和所有晚餐并无不同：晚上6点半，十个陌生人聚集在会面地点：“巴德夫妇”(Mr. & Mrs. Bund)餐厅后面——佩莱高度评价这家餐厅，虽然它更像是个传统上海餐馆。迎接人员分发用细瓶装着的诺曼底梨汁，作为清口之用。入场券经过17次折叠，成为一个小册子，上面有粉红色的“UV”标识，一共十张，被放在台布上。一个德国银行家率先拿起入场券，之后一位著名香港女演员轻轻拿起了自己那份。打开入场券就能看到菜单，它看上去如同格言一般，十分抽象，但也能唤起情感的共鸣，有点像格特鲁德·斯泰因(Gertrude Stein)的诗《柔软的心底》(Tender Buttons)中的一段。“肥鹅肝——无法放弃红色水果，甘蓝粉，西部与烟，埃尼奥·莫里康内(Ennio Morricone)”，滋味、质感、视觉效果和声音汇集一处希望把胃口与感官推向极致。
Before boarding a bus for a winding trip through Shanghai’s narrow side streets toward an undisclosed location, Ultraviolet’s host Fabien Verdier, 35, wearing a perfectly tailored tuxedo jacket, offers advice in the vein of a spiritual retreat. “Tonight, be available,” he says. Once on board, he continues: “We will make you wait outside a door. If a door opens in front of you, just walk through it.”
食客将要登上大巴，穿过上海狭窄的弄堂，奔赴一个未经发现的地点，在这之前，Ultraviolet的主持人，35岁的法比安·维尔迪埃(Fabien Verdier)身穿精心剪裁的晚礼服，用一种灵修一般高深莫测的口气建议说：“今晚，腾出时间来，”上车之后，他继续说：“我们会让你们在门外等待，如果大门在你们面前打开，那就走进去吧。”
Upon arrival, the group descends into the darkness and finds its way into an antechamber with violet lights and amplified, throbbing heartbeat sounds. A mesh door peels back automatically and the group advances into another room, silent until the theme music from “2001: A Space Odyssey” begins to play. Finally, the doors to the dining room are opened, revealing a boardroom-style table with leather chairs that lower, rise and recline hydraulically. Each guest’s name is projected onto the table, which will act as a kind of canvas for the rest of the night. Projections kick in, filling all 360 degrees of the space with an initial sequence that simulates being lowered into the ground — faster and faster, toward the core of the earth, until, surprisingly, the journey terminates in outer space. Some of the guests believe Pairet equipped his dining room with an actual elevator, and that they are, in fact, underground. Others recognize it was just an illusion. Regardless, belief is suspended and 10 strangers in reclining leather chairs wait while floating among a cluster of stars.
到达地点之后，这群人下车走进黑暗，脚下的路通往一座前厅，有着紫色的照明和扩音器，扩音器里播放出心跳的声音。一扇丝网门自动打开，人们走进另一个房间。一片寂静，直到《2001：太空漫游》(2001: A Space Odyssey)的音乐响起。最后，通往餐厅的门打开了，人们面前出现一张会议室式的桌子，周围有皮椅，高矮和椅背角度都是液压调节的。每位宾客的名字都被投影在桌上，在今晚剩下的时间里，这张桌子发挥了部分幕布的作用。接着，大写字母序列的投影充满了整个屋子的360°空间，造成房间沉入地面的效果；它们的移动愈来愈快，直向地心而去，最后，旅行惊人地来到了外太空。有些宾客觉得佩莱给餐厅装备了真正的电梯，现在他们其实已经来到地下了。其他人发现这只是幻觉。不管怎样，大家都将信将疑，十个坐在旋转皮椅上的陌生人漂浮在群星之间，等待着即将发生的事情。
Every course plays out like a vignette in which the food is paired with images and sounds. Cuttlefish whipped to the consistency of marshmallow and molded into a swirl brings on hypnotic chords and a series of slowly whirling concentric circles on the walls. Lobster set in a seawater consommé and topped with ponzu foam cues the sound of the ocean and all the walls fill up with crashing waves. Every course, every scenario, draws you in deeper. Yet Pairet insists that what’s eaten is the core of the experience and that all the other sensory pleasures here are derived from, and nourished by, the food.
每一个步骤都像是一幅装饰图案，食品被辅以相应的图像和声音。乌贼搭配大团被塑成漩涡形状的棉花糖上桌，辅以催眠般的旋律，此时墙壁上出现一系列缓慢向中心旋转的圆环。龙虾被放在海鲜汤里，辅以日式调味酱油沫(ponzu)，耳边传来大海的声音，墙壁上充满浪涛的投影。每一道菜，每一个场面都会让你愈来愈深地陷入其中。然而佩莱坚持说，食物才是这种体验的核心，其他感官享受都是源自食物，同时又被食物所滋养。
“The lobster,” Pairet will later tell me, “the way it’s cooked dictates everything else. Do you think a lobster that is grilled should be illustrated the same way as a lobster that is poached? Of course not. The grilled lobster might require a very tropical beach and the sea at sunset. Think of Bali. Think of those sounds. The other one, there’s no beach. They poach lobster in places that are more wild. It’s fishermen cooking on a boat with seawater. The ocean there is rough.”
佩莱后来告诉我：“烹饪龙虾的方式决定了烹饪其他食物的方式。你觉得烤龙虾应该和煮龙虾搭配同样的画面吗？当然不能。烤龙虾需要热带海滩和夕阳下的大海。想想巴厘岛，想想那些声音吧。煮龙虾就不需要海滩。人们会在更狂野的地方煮龙虾。渔夫在船上用海水煮龙虾，那里的大海波涛汹涌。”
PAIRET HAS TAKEN an unconventional road to global culinary superstardom, never staying in one country or in one kitchen for too long. Born in Perpignan, France, near the Catalan region of Spain — an area that’s come to be known for its imaginative and highly sophisticated cuisine — Pairet, who identifies with those traits, spent years working in top kitchens from Hong Kong to Jakarta to Istanbul, before arriving in Shanghai in 2005. It was here he opened Jade on 36 and quickly turned it into one of Asia’s premier restaurants. “I never moved because I wanted to move,” Pairet says. “I moved because the restaurant business, and, especially the kind of food I’m doing, is tricky.”
佩莱通过一条非同寻常的道路，才成为全球美食界的超级明星。他从来不会长久停留在一个国家或者一个厨房。他出生在法国佩皮尼昂，离西班牙的加泰罗尼亚地区不远，那里以其充满想像力和极度复杂的烹饪方法著称。佩莱身上也具备这些特质，他在香港、雅加达和伊斯坦布尔等地的顶级厨房工作了多年，2005年来到上海。在这里，他开办了翡翠36(Jade on 36)，它很快成为亚洲最好的餐馆之一。“我从来不是因为我想搬家才搬家的，”佩莱说，“我是为了餐厅生意才搬家，特别是因为我所做的那种食物，这很微妙。”
For all his itinerancy, Pairet held onto the idea for Ultraviolet for 15 years. A version nearly happened in Paris; Sydney seemed like a possibility for a while. There was even talk Pairet would carry out his vision at the Setai in Miami Beach. Had Pairet executed his idea 15 years ago, he might have been mistaken for a pretentious showman. But now, when the global dining scene has normalized concepts like molecular gastronomy and foraging, elevating chefs to a level of fame few could have predicted, Ultraviolet, and its auteur, seem like the next steps in the chain of culinary evolution. “It could have happened anywhere,” Pairet says. Shanghai, however, with its bent toward excessive luxury and focus on being the city of the future, even in the present, is actually Ultraviolet’s ideal spiritual home. “In the end,” Pairet says, “a company invested in the project in China. So, I’m staying in China.”
虽然在各地跑来跑去，Ultraviolet的理念在佩莱心中已经酝酿了15年。在巴黎有一次近乎实现了；在悉尼似乎一度很有希望。甚至有人说佩莱会在迈阿密海滩上的西泰(Setai)酒店开创这家餐厅。假如佩莱在15年前便已动手实现这个想法，他可能会被误认为一个自命不凡的作秀者。但如今，全球美食界都已认同分子美食这样的概念，把厨师对声望的追求提升到难以预料的程度。Ultraviolet和掌管它的大师似乎正是厨艺进化链上的新环节。“这有可能发生在任何地方，”佩莱说。然而，上海是一座正在走向奢侈化的城市，致力于在此时此刻就成为一座超前的未来之城，它自然成了Ultraviolet理想的精神家园。“最后，有公司在中国给这个项目投资了，于是我就留在了中国，”佩莱说。
TWO NIGHTS LATER, during dinner No. 245 (every meal, which costs $400 per guest, has sold out), Pairet introduces the first new menu since opening in 2012. Logically, and for all its moving parts, Ultraviolet shouldn’t work. There’s the James Cameron-esque insistence on innovation and intense production; the room that reads like an art installation by Olafur Eliasson; cuisine that puts Pairet in the company of the best chefs on earth. Everything combined, it should flop; come off as clutter or kitsch. But instead, Pairet has developed two distinctive menus — the original he calls UVA, the new one UVB — and two complete experiences that both succeed brilliantly, mesmerizingly and, as intended, deliciously. Both UV menus reflect Pairet’s personality directly, setting the table with humor and grace, mischief and whimsy, with puzzles to solve and dishes to think through.
两天后，在第245号晚餐上（每人每餐需400美元，已经售罄），佩莱推出自2012年开张起的首个新菜单。从逻辑上来说，而且考虑到所有不确定因素，Ultraviolet本是一个不可能的任务。但是这里有着詹姆斯·卡梅隆(James Cameron)式的对创新的坚持，以及充满激情的作品；餐厅由奥拉维尔·埃利亚松(Olafur Eliasson)设计，像一个艺术装置，菜品令佩莱可以跻身世界上最好的大厨之列。不过所有这些东西结合在一起也有可能失败，成为大杂烩或者媚俗之物。但佩莱设计出两套菜单，第一套命名为UVA，新的这套命名为UVB——这两种体验都取得了极大的成功，令人着迷，和他所设想的一样美味。两份菜单都直接体现了佩莱的人格魅力，令餐桌充满幽默与优雅，恶作剧与异想天开，充满有待解开的谜团与令人深思的菜肴。
During the UVB dinner, enjoyment comes from innumerable sources: from the bread course with meunière, truffles, charred crusts and cigar smoke that instantly becomes a permanent memory to the bittersweet clip of Charlie Chaplin eating his boot in “The Gold Rush.” And while UVA sets an almost unreachable bar for dinner in every regard, UVB somehow manages to float above it, offering a tender experience that mere restaurants simply cannot achieve and demonstrating that Pairet can continue to make creative leaps even in such rarefied territory.
在UVB晚餐中，享受来自方方面面：搭配法式煎鱼、松露、烤面包屑和雪茄烟的面包，会立刻与查理·卓别林(Charlie Chaplin)在《淘金记》(The Gold Rush)吃皮鞋的镜头联系在一起，成为人们心中永久的回忆。UVA菜单中，在每个方面都为食客设立了一道几乎难以触及的标杆，UVB却设法漂浮在上面，提供一种温和的体验，这种体验是单纯的餐馆无法提供的，这反映出佩莱在如此脱俗的领域依然可以持续实现创造力的飞跃。
UVB concludes with a lengthy five-segment dessert sequence including a creation called Mont Blanc Snow-Bowl, which plays on flavors like orange blossom and Yakult, the Japanese sweetened drinkable yogurt. Before it’s served, the room goes blue, the color of polar ice caves. It feels as if an arctic breeze is blowing through. The servers march out — one for every diner — and approach the table, each holding what looks like a 3-D map of a winter landscape beneath a glass dome. The domes are removed, the servers vanish, and the opening chords of Pink Floyd’s “Shine On You Crazy Diamond” wash over the room.
UVB菜单中有一道很长的，由五部分组成的甜品系列，其中包括一道名叫“勃朗峰滑雪场”(Mont Blanc Snow-Bowl)的甜品，有橙花和养乐多（Yakult，日本的一种甜味酸奶饮料）的味道。被端上来之前，房间变成一片蓝色，是极地冰穴的颜色。感觉就像北极的寒风吹过。侍者鱼贯而入——每位宾客都配备一位侍者——走到桌边，每人手中都拿着一个如同冬季风景的3D地图式的东西，被覆盖在玻璃罩之下。玻璃罩打开之后，侍者消失了，“平克·弗洛伊德”(Pink Floyd)的《照亮你疯狂的钻石》(Shine On You Crazy Diamond)的前奏涤荡在房间。
Everybody goes silent, speechless. At the end of the meal, when the lights finally brighten, each diner will clamor for a few personal seconds with Pairet. Some will beam. Some will shake their heads: How did you do it? One man will openly weep in Pairet’s arms, confessing how much the experienced moved him. But for now, and for what seems like an eternity, 10 blissed-out diners sink into a long, sweet meditation while, from a closed-circuit TV in the kitchen, Pairet watches, wondering how he can improve on even this moment.
所有人都无语了。就餐完毕，灯光亮起，所有宾客都会要求和佩莱单独在一起呆会儿。有些人笑容满面，有些人会摇头：你是怎么做到的呢？一个男人公然倒在佩莱怀抱里哭泣，说这样的体验让他感动。但此刻，如同永恒一般，十位有福的宾客陷入一阵漫长的、白日梦般的深思，佩莱从厨房的闭路电视里看着他们，甚至就连这种动情时刻，他还在思考应当如何改进呢。