Tom Erdelyi, better known as Tommy Ramone, the founding drummer and last surviving original member of the Ramones, the New York City band whose dizzying, short blasts of melody codified the sound of punk rock, died on Friday at his home in Ridgewood, Queens. He was 65.
汤姆·埃尔德伊(Tom Erdeyi)于周五在皇后区里奇伍德家中逝世，享年65岁。他以汤米·雷蒙(Tommy Ramone)这个名字广为人知，是纽约乐队“雷蒙斯”创始时期的鼓手，也是该乐队原始阵容中最后一位在世的成员。“雷蒙斯”乐队短小混乱、如爆炸般的旋律定义了朋克音乐。
The cause was cancer of the bile duct, his family said. Of the original Ramones, Joey (the singer) died in 2001, Dee Dee (the bassist) in 2002 and Johnny (the guitarist) in 2004.
家人证实他的死因是胆管癌。在雷蒙斯的原始成员中，主唱乔伊(Joey)于2001年逝世，贝斯手迪迪(Dee Dee)于2002年逝世，吉他手约翰尼于2004年逝世。
Mr. Erdelyi played only on the band’s first three albums, “Ramones” in 1976 and “Leave Home” and “Rocket to Russia,” both from 1977. And he cut a much more easygoing figure than his bandmates, who despite their fraternal stage names were notorious for internecine feuds. Yet Mr. Erdelyi played a crucial role in the sound and early development of the band, which was started by the high school friends from Forest Hills, Queens.
埃尔德伊只参加了乐队的前三张专辑：1976年的《雷蒙斯》(Ramones)，以及1977年的《离家》(Leave Home)和《飞向俄罗斯的火箭》(Rocket to Russia)。和其他乐队成员相比，他的形象要温和得多，其他人的艺名尽管都以“雷蒙”为姓，如同兄弟，但却以长期不和、两败俱伤而臭名昭著。这支乐队最初是几个高中同学在皇后区弗里斯特山组成的，埃尔德伊在乐队的音乐和早期发展中扮演了至关重要的角色。
When the group first came together in 1974, Mr. Erdelyi, who had some experience in the music business as a recording engineer, was the manager. Equally in love with hard rock’s buzz-saw guitar and the sunny clarity of 1950s and ’60s radio pop, the four men, dressed in leather jackets and ripped jeans like B-movie juvenile delinquents, opposed the mellow singer-songwriters and opulent progressive rock that dominated pop at the time.
1974年，乐队初创之际，埃尔德伊担任经纪人，他曾在音乐界有过一些经验，做过录音工程师。四名乐队成员既喜欢硬摇滚中电锯般的吉他轰鸣，也热爱20世纪五六十年代电台流行乐中的阳光与清澈，他们像B级片中的青少年犯罪分子那样穿着皮夹克和破洞牛仔裤，与当时统治流行乐坛的柔情创作歌手和大量前卫摇滚乐都截然不同。
In the band’s earliest incarnation, Joey — real name Jeffrey Hyman — was the drummer. But once it was discovered that Joey had the most capable singing voice, he moved to lead vocals.
在乐队最早的阵容里，原名杰弗里·希曼(Jeffrey Hyman)的乔伊担任鼓手。但大家发现乔伊最适合唱歌后，他就成了主唱。
“We started auditioning drummers, but they just couldn’t grasp the concept of the band — the speed and simplicity,” Mr. Erdelyi said in a 2011 interview with the website Noisecreep. “So I’d sit down and show them what we were looking for and the guys just finally said, ‘Why don’t you do it?’ So I gave it a try and that’s when the sound of the band sort of solidified.”
“我们开始面试鼓手，但他们都没法把握乐队的概念——速度与简单，”2011年，埃尔德伊在接受Noisecreep网站采访时说。“所以我就坐下来给他们演示我们想要什么，这些家伙们最后都说：‘你为什么不自己打呢？’于是我就试了试，乐队的声音就这样成形了。”
In songs like “Beat on the Brat” and “Now I Wanna Sniff Some Glue,” the nascent Ramones compressed nursery-rhyme chords into adrenalized blares, and seemed to satirize the very ideas of teenage boredom and cheap kicks. Playing regularly at the East Village bar CBGB, the band charged through the set, pausing long enough between songs only for Dee Dee to shout, “One, two, three, four!”
在《打那小子》(Beat on the Brat)和《现在我想吸点胶水》(Now I Wanna Sniff Some Glue)等歌曲中，初期的“雷蒙斯”把儿歌式的和弦和刺激的巨响结合起来，似乎讽刺了青少年的烦闷与廉价的兴奋刺激。乐队经常在东村的CBGB酒吧演出，飞速唱完整场演出，歌曲间的间隙只够迪迪喊出“一，二，三，四！”
Official songwriting credits were shared by the full band. But Mr. Erdelyi was the primary author of several of the Ramones’ early classics, including “Blitzkrieg Bop,” which opens their first album with the chant “Hey ho, let’s go!” and features lyrics that boil teenage angst down to its most basic and kinetic:
“雷蒙斯”歌曲的官方署名是整个乐队。但埃尔德伊是乐队几首早期经典的主要创作者，比如他们首张专辑的第一首歌《闪电战波普》(Blitzkrieg Bop)，里面唱道“嘿，嚯，咱们走！”歌词表现出青少年的愤怒中最基础、最活跃的东西。
What they want, I don’t know
他们想要什么，我不知道
They’re all revved up and ready to go
他们都准备好，就要走了
He was born Erdelyi Tamas on Jan. 29, 1949, in Budapest. His parents were professional photographers. Most of the rest of his family died in the Holocaust, he recalled in Steven Lee Beeber’s 2006 book, “The Heebie-Jeebies at CBGB’s: A Secret History of Jewish Punk.”
埃尔德伊于1949年1月29日生于布达佩斯，出生时名为埃尔德伊·塔马斯(Erdelyi Tamas)。父母是职业摄影师。他在史蒂文·李·比伯(Steven Lee Beeber)2006年的书《CBGB，神经兮兮：犹太朋克秘史》(The Heebie-Jeebies at CBGB’s: A Secret History of Jewish Punk)一书中回忆，自己家族中大部分成员都死于纳粹大屠杀。
He immigrated with his family to the United States in 1957 and changed his name to Thomas Erdelyi. In high school, he played guitar in a garage band called Tangerine Puppets with a schoolmate, John Cummings — the future Johnny Ramone.
1957年，他随全家移民美国，把名字改为托马斯·埃尔德伊。上中学时，他和同学约翰·坎明斯(John Cummings)组建了一支名叫“橘子木偶”(Tangerine Puppets)的车库乐队，他在里面弹吉他，坎明斯就是后来的约翰尼·雷蒙。
Later Mr. Erdelyi trained as a recording engineer and worked at the Record Plant studio in Manhattan. He was associate producer of the Ramones’ first album, which was produced by Craig Leon, and he was a co-producer of the band’s next three records. Mr. Erdelyi left the band after “Rocket to Russia,” released in 1977, to concentrate on producing. He was replaced on the drums by Marc Bell, who took on the name Marky Ramone.
后来埃尔德伊成了录音工程师，在曼哈顿的普兰特录音室工作。他是“雷蒙斯”首张专辑的副制作人，制作人是克莱格·里昂(Craig Leon)，此外他也担任乐队接下来三张专辑的联合制作人。埃尔德伊在1977年《飞往俄罗斯的火箭》发行后离开乐队，专注制作工作。代替他担任乐队鼓手的是马克·贝尔(Marc Bell)，他取艺名为马基·雷蒙(Marky Ramone)。
Mr. Erdelyi produced the Replacements’ “Tim” in 1985 and Redd Kross’ “Neurotica” in 1987. With Ed Stasium, he also produced the Ramones’ 1979 live album, “It’s Alive” — recorded in 1977 when Mr. Erdelyi was still with the band — and “Too Tough to Die” in 1984.
1985年，埃尔德伊为“代替”(Replacements)制作了《蒂姆》(Tim)，1987年为莱德·克罗斯(Redd Kross)制作了《神经症》(Neurotica)。他与艾德·斯塔休姆(Ed Stasium)合作，制作了“雷蒙斯”1979年的现场专辑《活着》(It’s Alive)，专辑的内容是1977年他尚在乐队期间录制的。1984年，他又为“雷蒙斯”制作了《太强悍死不了》(Too Tough to Die)。