The massacre of 43 students from a teachers college in Ayotzinapa has horrified Mexico. Social indignation has reached a boiling point in protests across the country. The demonstrations are both natural and justified — and certainly without precedent in recent decades. Everyone knows that the students had nothing to do with the gangsters or the drug trade. Everyone knows that this was truly a Massacre of the Innocents.
阿尤兹纳巴一所师范学院的43名学生惨遭屠杀的消息让墨西哥人无比震惊。公众的愤怒在席卷全国的抗议狂潮中达到了顶点。眼下示威活动来得既自然而然，又合情合理——而且在最近几十年里绝无先例。人人都知道，这些学生与黑帮或毒品交易毫无关系。人人都知道，这是现实版的《屠杀无辜》(The Massacre of the Innocents)。
The crime, committed in Iguala, a city in the heart of Guerrero state, was carried out by a criminal gang called the Guerreros Unidos (United Warriors), which operates in the Iguala area and controls the municipal police. The criminals surely acted in collusion with the town’s mayor and his wife, who have now been caught, holed up in a poor area of Mexico City, after more than a month on the run. Some of those already arrested have confessed to a macabre sequence of kidnapping, torture, execution and the burning of bodies.
暴行发生于格雷罗州中部的伊瓜拉市，行凶者是以伊瓜拉地区为活动范围、控制着该市警方的犯罪团伙“猛士帮”(Guerreros Unidos)。有确凿证据表明，伊瓜拉市长及其妻子曾与这些犯罪分子联手残杀学生。这对夫妇逃亡了一个多月，目前他们已经在墨西哥城贫民区的藏匿处被警方抓获。部分遭到逮捕的涉案人交代了绑架、拷打、处决、焚尸的残忍过程。
Guerrero is rich in tourist beach resorts (like Acapulco or Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo) and natural resources like gold, but there is a huge economic divide in the state. Seventy percent of its inhabitants live in poverty. The state has been a violent, ungovernable place since colonial times, and it was a principal theater of all our national wars in the 19th and 20th centuries.
格雷罗州境内有许多海滩旅游胜地（如阿卡普尔科、伊斯塔帕），还蕴藏着黄金等丰富的自然资源，但经济的两极分化十分严重，70%的居民生活贫困。这里自殖民时代以来就一直是一个难治理的动荡地方，在19世纪和20世纪墨西哥发生的所有民族战争中，这里都是一个主战场。
In the city of Atoyac, near Acapulco, there was a massacre of peasants in 1967. For me, as an adolescent, and for many Mexicans, it was the end of innocence, the resurgence of underlying violence, the return of “Barbarous Mexico” (the title of a book written by the American journalist John Kenneth Turner in the early 20th century).
1967年，在阿尤兹纳巴附近阿托亚克曾发生过一场农民大屠杀。对于尚在青春期的我，以及其他许多墨西哥人而言，它是纯真的终结，是潜藏的暴力因子的复苏，是“野蛮墨西哥”（Barbarous Mexico，美国记者约翰·肯尼思·特纳[John Kenneth Turner]写于20世纪初的一本书以此为标题）的重现。
That massacre unleashed the Mexican Left, encouraged by the victory of the Cuban Revolution. Much of their activism emerged from the Ayotzinapa teachers college, the Escuela Normal Rural Raúl Isidro Burgos. Founded in 1926 and still closely linked to its Marxist roots, the school’s heroes were Marx and Lenin, and in the 1970s Che Guevara. One of its students was the guerrilla leader Lucio Cabañas, who in the late 1960s, together with Genaro Vázquez Rojas, declared war on the Mexican state — with broad social support.
那场大屠杀，激起了因为古巴革命的胜利而备受鼓舞的墨西哥左翼人士的斗志。他们的很多运动都发端于阿尤兹纳巴的这所师范学院——劳尔·伊西德罗·布尔戈斯乡村师范(Escuela Normal Rural Raúl Isidro Burgos)。该校始建于1926年，至今仍与其马克思主义渊源有密切的联系，曾把马克思(Marx)和列宁(Lenin)奉为偶像，上世纪70年代还推崇过切·格瓦拉(Che Guevara)。这所师范学院的学生包括游击队领导人卢西奥·卡瓦尼亚斯(Lucio Cabañas)，他曾在上世纪60年代末与赫纳罗·巴斯克斯·罗哈斯(Genaro Vázquez Rojas)一道，对墨西哥政府宣战，并获得了广泛的社会支持。
In those days, Cuba provided material support for revolutionary activism in many Latin American countries. But not in Mexico, the only nation in Latin America to rebuff American pressure to break relations with Cuba. In exchange, the Castro regime neither encouraged nor supplied Mexican revolutionaries. President Luis Echeverría (1970-76) opened Mexico’s doors to refugees fleeing military terror in Chile and Argentina, while at the same time he unleashed terror at home (especially in Guerrero) to wipe out leftist guerrilla movements. Guerrero then subsided into an illusory calm, punctuated by scattered but bloody incidents of violence.
在那些日子里，古巴为很多拉美国家的革命运动提供了物质支持。但墨西哥除外，它是拉丁美洲唯一顶住了美国的压力，没和古巴断交的国家。作为回报，卡斯特罗(Castro)政权既没有鼓励也没有支援墨西哥的革命者。1970年至1976年在任的墨西哥总统路易斯·埃切维里亚(Luis Echeverría)向不堪忍受军政府恐怖统治的智利和阿根廷难民敞开了国门，但他为了消灭左派游击队，竟在自己的国家里（尤其是在格雷罗州）大肆采取恐怖手法。随后，格雷罗表面上归于平静，但不时会穿插着零散但却血腥的暴力事件。
An ominous new protagonist entered the picture in force at the turn of the century. Guerrero had always been a center of marijuana production, but the newer, more organized drug cartels found the state an ideal site for their business, with its rugged and often impassable hills and old culture of violence. The citizens of Guerrero, meanwhile, were full of lingering resentment over the Guerra Sucia (Dirty War) of the 1970s — and often quite as poor as people living in the most impoverished zones of Africa. At the same time, Mexico’s nationwide problem of political corruption became especially acute in Guerrero. In many towns, mayors and their colleagues took bribes from the narcos, associated with them, or, as in Iguala, were even themselves the drug lords.
到了世纪之交，令人不安的新角色嚣张地登场了。格雷罗以前一直是大麻生产中心，但新出现的一些组织化程度更高的贩毒集团，认为该州是做生意的理想场所，因为这里有难以翻越的崎岖山丘，还有悠久的暴力文化。与此同时，格雷罗州的民众对上世纪70年代的“肮脏战争”(Dirty War)怀有挥之不去的恨意，而且他们常常与生活在非洲最贫瘠地区的人们一样贫穷。此外，政治腐败这一墨西哥的全国性问题在格雷罗州尤为突出。很多城市的市长及其同僚收取毒贩的贿赂，与其狼狈为奸，甚至像伊瓜拉市的情况一样，自己就是毒枭。
The leftist Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD), which has governed Guerrero since 2005, has done almost nothing to break the old links between politics and crime. In fact, the mayor of Iguala and the governor of the state had the support of all of the party’s national leaders. The centrist Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) won the presidential election of 2012 with the promise of returning peace and security to the people. But the government has been, at the very least, inattentive and inefficient. The army has a major garrison near Iguala but, inexplicably, has done nothing to inhibit the alliance of criminals and politicians.
从2005年开始在格雷罗州执政的左翼政党民主革命党(Party of the Democratic Revolution)，在斩断政治与犯罪的关联方面几乎毫无作为。事实上，伊瓜拉市的市长和格雷罗州的州长得到了该党所有全国领导人的支持。赢得2012年总统大选的中间派政党革命制度党(Institutional Revolutionary Party)曾做出承诺，要把和平与安宁还给人民。即使客气地讲，当前的墨西哥政府也称得上多有疏失、效率低下。军方在伊瓜拉市附近驻有大量兵力，但却没有采取任何行动来阻止犯罪分子和政客勾结，真是令人费解。
The state of Guerrero produces 98 percent of the heroin-yielding poppies in Mexico; production has grown exponentially. President Obama recently quoted a report by the United States Drug Enforcement Agency of a “324 percent increase in heroin seizures at the Mexican border between 2009 and 2013.”
在墨西哥，用于制作海洛因的罂粟98%都产自格雷罗州，而且产量急速增长。奥巴马总统最近援引美国禁毒署(United States Drug Enforcement Agency)的一份报告称，“从2009年到2013年，在墨西哥边境缴获的海洛因数量增长了324%。”
But why kill innocent students? For the simple reason that their political demonstrations, civic protests and revolutionary idealism are bad for business. A man who has been arrested for his involvement in the tragedy added another reason: “Because they are unruly.”
但为什么要杀无辜的学生呢？原因很简单，学生的政治示威、公民抗议活动和革命理想主义不利于他们做生意。一名因为参与屠杀行动被捕的男子说出了另一个原因：“因为他们不守规矩。”
The strong involvement of local government and social forces has brought gains against narco-violence in Monterrey, Tijuana, and even heavily plagued Ciudad Juárez. But in Guerrero, with its low level of education and high incidence of poverty, a similar process is very unlikely. The government of President Enrique Peña Nieto has passed important economic reforms. These will do little good, however, unless the problem of security is faced head-on.
在蒙特雷、蒂华纳，以及深受毒品暴力困扰的华雷斯，地方政府及社会力量大力参与打击毒品暴力的行动，并且取得了一定的收获。但在教育水平较低、贫困率较高的格雷罗州，不太可能出现类似的情况。墨西哥总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)领导的政府通过了重要的经济改革方案。但这不会带来什么收效，除非他们直面安全问题。