Long before Psy’s “Gangnam Style” catapulted South Korea to international pop culture heights, the small peninsular nation had already found a fan base for its catchy exports in China, its giant neighbor to the west. Some say the Korean term hallyu — hanliu in Chinese, meaning Korean Wave — in reference to pop culture was coined by a Chinese newspaper in the late 1990s.There to witness the evolution of the so-called wave from the beginning was Ma Xue, 35, a Chinese cultural critic, television host and producer. When Ms. Ma started a program on South Korean culture for China National Radio in 2001, there were “few spheres through which Korean culture could be brought into China.”
在鸟叔(Psy)的那首《江南Style》(Gangnam Style)将韩国推向国际流行文化的巅峰之前，这个面积不大的半岛国家已经在中国拥有了一众粉丝，足以向它西面的庞大邻国出口颇具吸引力的商品。一些人宣称，“韩流”这个指代韩国流行文化的词是一家中国报纸在90年代末创造出来的。35岁的中国文化评论员、电视节目主持人和制片人马雪从一开始就见证了韩流的发展。当马雪于2001年开始在中央人民广播电台做一档有关韩国文化的节目时，“几乎没有将韩国文化引入中国的渠道。”
That changed as technological developments accelerated the influx of South Korean pop music and television shows. For 10 years, Ms. Ma hosted radio programs for KBS, South Korea’s national broadcaster, that focused on the country’s music and culture and that were broadcast in China. Now, Ms. Ma, who has been called the godmother of Hallyu in China, works as an executive producer, helping Chinese and South Korean companies create television shows for the Chinese market.
随着科技发展加快了韩国流行音乐和电视节目的涌入，这种情况发生了改变。马雪在十年的时间里为韩国的国家广播电视台KBS主持广播节目，专门介绍那里的音乐和文化，并在中国播出。如今，在中国被称为“韩流教母”的马雪担任执行制片人，帮助两国的公司为中国市场创作电视节目。
Demand for such South Korean-influenced shows has risen in recent years, especially since the arrival in late 2013 of “My Love From Another Star,” a quirky Korean television series about a 400-year-old Harvard-educated alien who falls in love with an actress. In an interview, Ms. Ma discussed China’s addiction to South Korean dramas, what sets South Korean reality shows apart and why “Star” attracts a different audience than “House of Cards.”
近些年里，特别是2013年末《来自星星的你》(My Love From Another Star)播出以来，中国市场对此类受韩国影响的电视节目的需求不断增加。这部电视剧讲述了一个受过哈佛教育的400岁的外星人爱上女演员的离奇故事。马雪在接受采访时解释了中国对韩国电视剧的喜爱、韩国真人秀的特色，以及与《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)相比，《来自星星的你》为何会吸引一批不同的观众。
Q. When did Chinese viewers first become interested in South Korean TV dramas?
问：中国观众是从什时候开始对韩国电视剧感兴趣的？
A. Early on. In 2001, there were one or two Korean dramas that were aired in China, and there was an upsurge in interest then. But those shows weren’t online. So after people watched the programs, they had no way to discuss them. Once the program was over, it was over. After that, there were a few more TV dramas shown in China, and there were a few more waves. But it wasn’t like it is now, where you have a lot of variety. Back then, most of the shows were on traditional television. But after the expansion of the online video market, all of a sudden there was a huge demand for more content.
答：很早。2001年的时候，中国播出了一两部韩国电视剧，掀起了热潮。但是这些节目不是在网上播出的，所以观众看完后，没有办法进行讨论。一旦节目结束了，一切就结束了。后来，中国还播出了几部韩剧，也掀起了一些热潮。不过那会儿不像现在这样多样化发展。当时，大多数节目都是在传统电视台播出的。在网络视频市场扩张之后，突然之间就有了巨大的需求。
Q. What spurred this growing interest in South Korean TV?
问：中国人对韩国电视剧的兴趣是怎样被刺激上来的？
A. Starting in 2009, there was a huge expansion of Korean TV dramas on Chinese video websites. Before this, people downloaded a lot of television shows illegally, including Korean dramas. But video websites came under pressure to eliminate pirated content. This encouraged the demand for legal, licensed content.
答：韩剧自2009年起大举进军中国的视频网站。在这之前，观众会非法下载包括韩剧在内的电视节目。但是视频网站后来承受删除盗版内容的压力，增加了取得合法内容的需求。
Q. What does this cost?
问：价格在什么水平？
A. Back in 2001, the price for individual shows was quite reasonable, maybe around $3,000 to $6,000 for a 60-minute episode. By comparison, Chinese dramas were going for hundreds of thousands, or millions, of renminbi per episode. That’s several times more expensive. There were some cheap Chinese TV dramas, but they were really bad. If you compared even the best TV dramas from China with those from South Korea, the difference was huge.
答：2001年时，单个剧集的价格还算公道，60分钟的一集在3000到6000美元之间。相较之下，一集中国电视剧就要数十万或数百万人民币不等，贵上好几倍。当然便宜的中国电视剧也有，但拍得很差。如果比较起中韩两国的顶级电视剧，差距很大。
After the premiere [in 2013] of two Korean series, “My Love From Another Star” and “The Heirs” [about rich, young Koreans], the response from viewers was incredible and the price of Korean dramas jumped tenfold. That was pretty much the peak in price for Korean dramas. All the video websites began competing to buy content.
后来在2013年上了两个韩国剧集，分别是《来自星星的你》以及讲述富有韩国青年的《继承者们》。观众的反响非常热烈，韩剧的价格也水涨船高。那时候韩剧价格基本上到了顶点，视频网站也开始竞相购买内容。
Q. What happened after that peak?
问：顶点之后又发生什么事？
A. In 2014, the pressure on Chinese websites was huge. They were expecting to have the same kind of response from viewers that “My Love From Another Star” got, but the dramas they bought after that weren’t as popular. And the prices for Korean shows had become overinflated. They were no longer market-based prices.
答：这些中国网站在2014年承受了巨大压力。他们原本期待买下的剧有《来自星星的你》的热度，但是不如预期。此外韩国节目的价格被过分炒作，并非符合市场需求的价格。
This might have prompted the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television to issue its new regulations. [The administration, which regulates China’s entertainment industry, said in September that foreign television products could no longer exceed 30 percent of the content made available on online streaming websites and that programs must be approved by censors in advance.] It was never explicitly said that this was the reason but everyone expected it.
这或许促使了广电总局实施新的法令。（掌管中国娱乐产业的广电总局去年9月发布规定，要求线上串流网站的影视内容中，外国节目部分不得超过30%，且须经过审查。）广电总局虽然没有明讲，但大家认为因为这个。
Q. What was the effect of these new guidelines?
问：新准则的影响在于？
A. It’s had a big impact on Korean dramas. Previously, Korean dramas were available online in China within hours after they aired in Korea. Now the shows have to wait for approval by China’s censors before they can be streamed online. So their price has come down a lot, and Korean shows are no longer as readily available.
答：这对韩剧有很大影响。在这之前，韩剧可以在韩国播放数小时后登上网路。现在这些节目必须等待审查才能串流播放。因此韩剧价格下滑许多，韩国节目也不再唾手可得。
So now we’re seeing a return to illegal downloading and piracy. If you look on Youku [a video hosting service], there are a lot more people who record dramas and share them illegally online.
因此非法下载与盗版得以卷土重来。只要上优酷看看，就会见到许多人录下电视剧，非法在线上分享。
Q. Are more South Korean production companies entering the entertainment market in China?
问：是否有更多韩国制片公司进入中国市场？
A. More and more Korean groups are coming here to collaborate, specifically on variety shows and reality TV. The Koreans have accumulated a lot of experience. They’ve been doing reality shows for over 10 years.
答：有许多韩国企业来中国谈合作，尤其着重在综艺节目与真人秀上。韩国人积累了很多经验。他们做真人秀已经有十多年了。
Of course, Korean reality shows are different from European and American ones. Korean culture is more similar to Chinese culture, so many Korean reality shows have been introduced into China. For instance, “I Am a Singer” and “Where Are You Going, Dad?” were both modeled on popular Korean shows.
当然，韩国的真人秀不同于欧美的。韩国文化与中国文化更为相似，所以中国才会引入这么多韩国真人秀。例如，《我是歌手》和《爸爸去哪儿》的原型，都是广受欢迎的韩国节目。
The Chinese have been very eager to make their own versions of these shows. They’ve discovered that buying the copyright for Korean shows is very profitable. They can remake the show and hold the Chinese copyright.
中国人一直十分渴望制作这些节目的中国版。他们发现，购买韩国节目的版权是一笔极为有利可图的买卖。他们可以把节目重新打造一番，持有中国版版权。
Take, for example, the first season of “Where Are You Going, Dad?” Securing the copyright to remake that show in China may have cost a few million renminbi. But by the second season, they were earning hundreds of millions of renminbi, and even more from advertising. This is something the Koreans hadn’t anticipated. For the Chinese, it’s a small investment for a great return.
以《爸爸去哪儿》第一季为例。取得版权并重新制作节目可能要花费数百万人民币。但他们通过第二季挣了好几亿人民币，卖广告赚的钱甚至还要更多。这种情况出乎韩国人的意料。对中国人而言，小投资换来了大回报。
Q. Why can’t Chinese companies come up with these shows themselves?
问：为什么中国公司自己做不出来这样的节目？
A. The Chinese do studio talk shows and game shows well, almost to Korean standards. But China doesn’t have much experience with reality shows. In Korea, by contrast, if there’s a dialogue between two people, they’ll plan for 20 possible scenarios. These are things Chinese can’t anticipate. They’re not familiar with these kinds of shows.
答：中国人可以制作出很好的演播室谈话节目和游戏节目，水准几乎可以和韩国同类节目比肩。但中国在真人秀方面没有太多经验。韩国则不一样，如果两个人有一场对话，他们会设想出20种可能的情况，并做好准备。这些东西是中国人无法企及的。他们不太熟悉这类节目。
Q. Why do the Chinese look to South Korea? Why not Japan?
问：为什么中国人喜欢从韩国而非日本“取经”？
A. It’s much more difficult for Japanese TV dramas due to the political climate. The South Koreans have a much friendlier political relationship with the Chinese.
受政治气氛的影响，引进日版的电视剧要困难得多。韩国和中国的政治关系更为友好。
And the United States is too different. American society and culture are too far removed. If you look at American reality shows, many of the participants are ordinary people. In Chinese reality shows, they’re celebrities. Korean shows also use celebrities. It’s these kinds of shows that are successful. Ordinary Chinese already live pretty tough lives. They don’t want to watch other ordinary people live their lives. They only care about celebrities, people who are better off than they are.
而美国跟中国的差异又太大。美国社会及文化与中国的相去甚远。你看美国真人秀，很多参与者都是普通人。而中国真人秀，参与者都是名人。韩国真人秀用的也是名人。这样的节目才能获得成功。中国平头百姓的生活已经够艰难了。他们不想看其他平头百姓过日子。他们只关心过得比自己好的名人。
Q. How are South Korean shows adapted to the Chinese market?
问：韩国的节目如何适应中国市场？
A. The show has to conform to the country’s situation. For instance, there’s a Korean program about a character who doesn’t attend school and gets into fights. You couldn’t make this type of program in China. This sort of antisocial attitude and negative content is not acceptable.
答：节目必须合乎中国国情。例如，有个韩国节目，里边的一个人物没去上学，而是去打架斗殴。在中国不能制作此类节目。这种反社会的态度和负面内容是不可接受的。
Chinese people also like fast-paced shows, like “Running Man” [a popular variety show]. They don’t like to sit through programs with lengthy dialogue. Korean shows are generally slower. Sometimes the opening can be more than 10 minutes long. For Chinese audiences, that’s not O.K.
中国人也喜欢节奏快的节目，比如《跑男》（Running Man，一档颇受欢迎的综艺节目）。他们不喜欢看人一直坐在那里没完没了地对谈。韩国节目通常节奏较慢，有时候开场可以长达10分钟。对中国观众而言，这样可是不行。
Q. What kind of shows do Chinese people like to watch?
问：中国人喜欢看哪种节目？
A. Many of the people who go online don’t want to think. They’re just looking for light entertainment. They’re not looking to learn or think deeply about something. Those who do want that watch American dramas, which are more cerebral and often more political. So the audience for “My Love From Another Star” is different from that for “House of Cards.”
答：许多上网的人并不想要思考，只想看看节目找点乐子。他们不以学习或者深入思考些什么为目的。怀着那种目的的人会去看美剧，美剧更理性，常常包含更多政治元素。因此，看《来自星星的你》的和看《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)的是两拨人。
Q. Television production is still at an earlier stage in China.
问：中国的电视制作还处于比较初级的阶段。
A. Yes, the Chinese definitely have a lot to learn. But I think they’ll improve in the next few years. In the meantime, the Koreans will still be better.
答：是的，中国人肯定有很多要学习的东西。但我认为他们在未来几年里会有所进步。与此同时，韩国人的制作水平还是会比中国人高。