CBS will cancel one of its longest-running and popular shows, “CSI,” next season after a two-hour series finale in late September.
美国哥伦比亚广播公司(Columbia Broadcasting System)将停播其播出时间最长的热门美剧《犯罪现场调查》(CSI: Crime Scene Investigation)，该剧长达两小时的大结局将于9月底播出。
The network made the announcement on Wednesday at a press briefing ahead of its upfront presentation for advertisers later in the day.
上周三，公司在新闻发布会上宣布了这一消息，并于晚些时候举行了广告预售会。
“It’s easy to take it for granted and it’s easy to forget, but it was one of the strongest, longest-running dramas in TV history and very important to us as a network,” said Kelly Kahl, CBS’s vice president for prime time. “It was one of the shows that really helped reverse our fortunes and point us in a very positive direction.”
“这部剧曾是电视史上最有影响力、播出时间最长的剧集之一，对一家广播电视公司来说非常重要，不过人们很容易忽视或忘记这一点。”负责黄金时段节目的副总裁凯利·卡尔(Kelly Kahl)说道，“它和一些其它剧集一起，改变了我们的命运，把我们引上了正路。”
One of the show’s biggest stars, Ted Danson, will move to a spinoff show, “CSI: Cyber,” where he will star alongside a recent Academy Award winner, Patricia Arquette.
剧中的大腕之一特德·丹森(Ted Danson)将转至衍生剧《犯罪现场调查：网络》(CSI: Cyber)，和他搭档的是今年获得奥斯卡的帕特丽夏·阿凯特(Patricia Arquette)。
“CSI” helped make CBS one of the top-rated networks over the last 15 years and spawned several spinoffs, including “CSI: Cyber,” “CSI: NY” and “CSI: Miami.” Between the second season of “CSI” in 2001 and its sixth season in 2006, it averaged more than 23 million viewers an episode, according to Nielsen. This season, it is averaging a little more than 11 million viewers, a series low, and its rating among the crucial 18-to-49-year-old demographic is 2.1, also a series low.
《犯罪现场调查》帮助哥伦比亚广播公司成为过去15年中收视率最高的广播电视公司之一，并带来几部衍生剧，如《犯罪现场调查：网络》、《犯罪现场调查：纽约》(CSI: NY)和《犯罪现场调查：迈阿密》(CSI: Miami)。据媒体研究公司尼尔森(Nielsen)称，从2001年的第二季到2006年的第六季，该剧每集平均观众均超过2300万人。但最新一季的每集平均观众将将超过1100万人，创下该剧收视率新低。在关键的18岁至49岁年龄段中，收视率仅为2.1%，亦是历史新低。
“CSI” will join another stalwart from the last decade in retirement: Fox announced on Monday that “American Idol” would be finished next year.
另一部播出时间超过十年的老牌节目《美国偶像》(American Idol)也将停播。上周一，福克斯(Fox)宣布了这一消息。
Leslie R. Moonves, chief executive of CBS Corporation, opened the press briefing on Wednesday by saying, “I’m probably the oldest guy still doing the upfronts, but here I am.”
哥伦比亚广播集团(CBS Corporation)的首席执行官莱斯利·R·蒙维斯(Leslie R. Moonves)以这样的话开始了这场新闻发布会：“在举办广告预售会的人中，我可能算是年纪最大的一位，不过你看，我的确就站在这呢。”
Without skipping a beat, he then quickly went on to defend the network from a label it can’t shake, that CBS is the “old-fogy network,” as he put it.
蒙维斯没有浪费一分一秒，立刻为公司开始辩护，试图摆脱一项无法摆脱的标签，即哥伦比亚广播公司是广播电视公司中的“老古董”。
“Gee, CBS has all these old-timer shows,” Mr. Moonves said. “Yes, we’re going to retire a couple of shows, but this is a very young schedule, so our future is fairly well assured in terms of quality.”
“天啊，我们有这么多老年代久远的电视剧，”蒙维斯说，“没错，我们打算停播几部。剧集列表因此会变得更年轻，从质量上说，未来没什么可担心的。”
At its formal upfront presentation Wednesday afternoon, CBS played up its new late-night lineup. Stephen Colbert, who is replacing David Letterman, entertained advertisers and introduced Mr. Moonves from the Carnegie Hall stage. (The two are becoming fast friends; they also appeared in a taped segment together, both with long dark beards, humorously suggesting that they just couldn’t stop watching CBS programming.) The network’s other late-night host, James Corden, appeared as well.
在上周三下午的正式广告预售会上，哥伦比亚广播公司极力强调了深夜秀的新阵容。取代大卫·莱特曼(David Letterman)成为深夜秀主持的斯蒂芬·科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)在纽约卡内基音乐厅(Carnegie Hall)内逗笑了众广告商，并将首席执行官蒙维斯介绍上台。（两人很快成为朋友；一起出现在一段视频当中，都留着长长的黑胡子，幽默地表示他们就是忍不住一直看自己公司的节目）。另一位深夜秀主持人詹姆斯·科登(James Corden)也在预售会中亮相。
“The Big Bang Theory,” heading into its ninth season, remains the No. 1 comedy on television, and “Criminal Minds” continues to hold its own for CBS. But some of its shows, like “Elementary” or “Hawaii Five-O,” have lost momentum.
《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)已播放到第九季，仍是首屈一指的电视喜剧。《犯罪心理》(Criminal Minds)继续为频道坚守阵地。但是该频道的其他一些电视剧，比如《基本演绎法》(Elementary)或《夏威夷特警》(Hawaii Five-O)，已经失去活力。
Two new hit shows, “NCIS: New Orleans” and “Scorpion,” will return to the lineup, and will air at 9 p.m., “NCIS” on Monday and “Scorpion” on Tuesday. “Survivor,” a 15-year stalwart of the network, will continue to anchor the network’s 8 p.m. hour on Wednesday. “The miracle show, the marathon show, it just keeps going,” Mr. Kahl said.
两部热门新剧《海军罪案调查处：新奥尔良》(NCIS: New Orleans)和《天蝎》(Scorpion)已经回归，分别在周一和周二晚9点播出。有15年历史的老牌电视剧《幸存者》(Survivor)将继续在周三晚上8点的黄金档播出。“这部电视剧是个奇迹，它像马拉松一样持久，将继续下去，”副总裁卡尔说。
CBS is introducing a new drama for its fall lineup, “Limitless,” and new comedies, “Life in Pieces,” and “Angel From Hell.” “Angel” stars Jane Lynch, formerly of “Glee.”
公司将于今年秋季推出一部新的情节剧《永无止境》(Limitless)，以及两部新喜剧《生活琐事》(Life in Pieces)和《地狱天使》(Angel From Hell)。《地狱天使》由曾经主演《欢乐合唱团》(Glee)的简·林奇(Jane Lynch)担任主演。
The network will also broadcast a guaranteed ratings hit, “Thursday Night Football,” through late October. When its football schedule ends, CBS will move “The Big Bang Theory” and “Life in Pieces” to Thursday night from Monday night.
哥伦比亚广播公司还将播出收视率有保证的热门节目《星期四橄榄球之夜》(Thursday Night Football)，覆盖10月底的档期。橄榄球赛季结束后，将把《生活大爆炸》和《生活琐事》从周一晚上挪到周四晚上。
The network is entering the superhero realm with a show it has high hopes for, “Supergirl,” which will go into that Monday night slot. It will be the first time since 1949 that CBS will not have a comedy leading its prime-time schedule on Mondays, Mr. Kahl said.
此外，哥伦比亚广播公司正涉足超级英雄领域，即将推出一部被寄予厚望的《女超人》(Supergirl)。该剧计划在周一晚上播出。卡尔说，这将是自1949年以来，公司首次在周一晚间的黄金时段安排非喜剧类的电视剧。