LOS ANGELES — Hollywood made history on Sunday night — barely.
洛杉矶——好莱坞在周日晚创造了历史——勉强算是吧。
The best picture victory by “12 Years a Slave” at the 86th Academy Awards finally handed cinema’s most prestigious prize to a movie by a black filmmaker, in this case, the British-born Steve McQueen. But the triumph, which found Mr. McQueen dancing happily onstage, had all the earmarks of a true squeaker.
第八十六届奥斯卡金像奖(Academy Awards)最终把电影业最具名望的大奖最佳影片奖颁给了黑人导演执导的《为奴十二年》(12 Years a Slave)，确切的说是在英国出生的斯蒂夫·麦奎因(Steve McQueen)。不过，虽然麦奎喜不自胜地在舞台上手舞足蹈，此次胜利却具备了涉险过关情节剧的一切特质。
“No one will ever know the margin, but it certainly was not an easy win,” said Stephen Gilula, a president of Fox Searchlight, which released “12 Years a Slave.” “It was really a tossup right until the end.”
发行《为奴十二年》的福克斯探照灯公司(Fox Searchlight)总裁史蒂夫·吉鲁拉(Steve Gilula)说，“没人能知道提名影片之间的得票差距，不过，这次的胜利显然来之不易。答案真是到了最后一刻才揭晓的。”
Perhaps because “12 Years a Slave” arrived at the ceremony without the air of historic inevitability, Mr. McQueen came across as a bit timid about seizing his place in the history books. When the best picture envelope was opened, the first to speak was one of the film’s white producers, the already famous Brad Pitt.
也许是因为《为奴十二年》出现在颁奖典礼时，就缺乏获奖影片那种稳操胜券的气场，所以面对在奥斯卡电影史上占据一席之地的荣誉，麦奎因依然显得有点怯场。当最佳影片奖的信封被拆开时，第一位上台发言的是本片的白人制片人之一，已经名满天下的布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)。
When Mr. McQueen did speak — before 43 million viewers, a 6.4 percent increase over last year’s TV audience — he did not immediately address the weight of what had just happened: Out of 500 films nominated for best picture over the years, his was the first black-directed winner. Instead, he thanked his publicist and numerous other people who dragged the film across the finish line, perhaps inadvertently exposing the puffings and wheezings of a six-month campaign.
麦奎因最终上台发言时——他面对的是4300万观众，比去年的观众增长了6.4%——他没有立即强调刚颁发的奖项厚重的分量，即过去多年里，有500部电影获得了最佳影片提名，而他是第一位获此殊荣的黑人导演。与此相反，他向他的公关人员和把这部电影奋力推上领奖台的无数其他人士表示了感谢，此举也许不经意地暴露了长达六个月的评选活动的艰难程度。
“I think he was overwhelmed,” Mr. Gilula said by telephone on Monday morning.
周一上午，吉鲁拉在电话里说，“我想他当时都懵了。”
Going into the night, a lot of professional awards strategists privately said they expected best picture to go to Alfonso Cuarón’s “Gravity.” That space thriller ended up winning seven Oscars, leaving “12 Years a Slave,” a period drama about a free black man kidnapped into slavery, with unusually light voter support. Mr. McQueen’s film won three Oscars; he notably lost best director to Mr. Cuarón.
到周一晚间，许多专业的奖项策略师私下里说，他们预计最佳影片奖会花落阿方索·卡隆(Alfonso Cuarón)执导的《地心引力》(Gravity)。这部太空惊险片最终赢得了七项奥斯卡奖，而选择支持《为奴十二年》的投票者少得异乎寻常，后者是一部历史片，描述了一名自由的黑人男性被绑架为奴隶的经历。麦奎因的片子赢得了三项奥斯卡奖；引人瞩目的是，在最佳导演奖这个奖项上，他败给了卡隆。
Best director and best picture almost always win as a pair, with some high-profile exceptions. Francis Ford Coppola, for instance, lost the directing prize the year his “Godfather” took best picture. So there was no particular shame in Mr. McQueen’s slight. But the split was one more indicator of the presumably narrow margin by which “12 Years a Slave” won Hollywood’s highest honor.
最佳导演奖和最佳影片奖几乎总是联系在一起的，不过也有某些引人注目的例外。例如有一年，弗朗西斯·福特·科波拉(Francis Ford Coppola)指导的《教父》(Godfather)摘取了最佳影片奖，却失去了当年的最佳导演奖。所以，对于麦奎因所遭受的轻慢，也就没有什么特丢人的感觉。不过，这两个奖项的分离也许是《为奴十二年》仅以微弱优势摘取好莱坞最高荣誉的又一证据。
Speaking to reporters backstage, Mr. McQueen at first sidestepped a question about his film’s historic win, deferring to Mr. Pitt. Another reporter tried again, more squarely asking Mr. McQueen to address being the first black director to win best picture. “Obviously, it’s a mark of development,” he said.
在后台对记者讲话时，麦奎因一开始避开了对他的影片取得历史性胜利的提问，把问题甩给了皮特。另一名记者再次尝试就此发问，更直接地要求麦奎因就成为首位赢得最佳影片奖的黑人导演一事发表感想。麦奎因说，“显然，这是发展的标志。”
“12 Years a Slave,” based on a memoir that was first published in the mid-19th century, tells the story of Solomon Northup. Mr. Northup, who lived in New York, was abducted and sold into slavery, spending years on Southern plantations before ultimately winning his freedom. The book — “Twelve Years a Slave: Narrative of Solomon Northup, a Citizen of New-York, Kidnapped in Washington City in 1841, and Rescued in 1853, From a Cotton Plantation Near the Red River, in Louisiana” — became a staple piece of Abolitionist literature and then fell into obscurity, but in recent years has been revived by scholars.
《为奴十二年》是根据一部19世纪中期出版的回忆录改变的，讲述了所罗门·诺萨普(Solomon Northup)的故事。在纽约生活的诺萨普被绑架并作为奴隶被贩卖，他在南方种植园度过了许多年，最终赢得了自由。这本书——《为奴十二年：所罗门·诺萨普的故事，一个纽约市民，1841年在华盛顿城被绑架，1853年在路易斯安那州红河附近一座棉花种植园获救》(Twelve Years a Slave: Narrative of Solomon Northup, a Citizen of New-York, Kidnapped in Washington City in 1841, and Rescued in 1853, From a Cotton Plantation Near the Red River, in Louisiana)——成为了废奴主义文学的一部代表作品，但后来渐渐被人遗忘，直到近年才被学者重新发掘出来。
Seventy-five years after “Gone With the Wind” won best picture, how important was it to Mr. McQueen to have the Academy recognize a film that depicted slavery from a very different perspective? “It’s just obviously a progression,” he said. “The background characters are now in the foreground.”
在《乱世佳人》(Gone With the Wind)赢得奥斯卡最佳影片奖75年后，学院将荣誉颁给了一部以截然不同的视角描绘奴隶制的电影，这对麦奎因来说是否有格外重大的意义？“这显然就是一种进步，”他说。“背景人物现在走到了前台。”
John Ridley, who won the best adapted screenplay Oscar for “12 Years a Slave,” becoming only the second black writer to receive that honor (Geoffrey Fletcher was the first, for “Precious: Based on the Novel ‘Push’ by Sapphire”), was a bit more willing to reflect. “I’m very proud, I’m very humbled, and I’m very hopeful for the future,” he said. “I may only be the second, but I know there are so many people out there of so many different kinds of stripes, faiths and orientations that have stories to tell.”
因《为奴十二年》获奥斯卡最佳改编剧本奖的约翰·里德利(John Ridley)成为有史以来第二位获此殊荣的黑人编剧（第一位是《珍爱：根据萨菲尔小说〈推〉改编》[Precious: Based on the Novel “Push” by Sapphire]的编剧杰弗瑞·弗莱彻[Geoffrey Fletcher]），他的表达意愿更强烈一些。“我十分自豪，十分惶恐，我对未来充满希望，”他说。“我可能只是第二个，但我知道还有很多不同类型、信仰和取向的人希望说出他们的故事。”
Since Hattie McDaniel became the first black Oscar winner in 1940, for her supporting role in “Gone With the Wind,” the number of black nominees and winners in all categories has reached a total of about 125. The Academy has recently honored performers like Mo’Nique and Octavia Spencer and has strained to include more blacks, Hispanics and Asians in its membership. But change has come slowly, as many of the Hollywood disciplines — particularly film directing — continue to be dominated by white men.
1940年在《乱世佳人》中出演配角的海蒂·麦克丹尼尔(Hattie McDaniel)成为首位获得奥斯卡的黑人，此后在所有门类中获提名和获奖的黑人总共达到约125人。学院近年将奖项颁给了莫妮克(Mo’Nique)和奥克塔维亚·斯宾瑟(Octavia Spencer)等演员，并致力于招募更多黑人、西语裔和亚裔会员。但对于好莱坞的许多行当——尤其是导演，改变是缓慢的，白人男性依然处于支配地位。
While Oscar vote counts are not publicly revealed, ticket sales are monitored closely; it was glaringly apparent that “12 Years a Slave” climbed into the history books without ever having truly ignited the audience. Through the weekend, the film had only about $50.3 million in domestic ticket sales, though it has performed well internationally.
奥斯卡的票数统计是不公开的，但票房销售的数据却是受到密切关注的；很显然，《为奴十二年》在被载入史册的同时，并没有真正点燃观众的热情。截止周末，影片的美国本土票房仅为5030万美元左右，不过在国际市场表现不错。
Mr. Gilula disagreed. “The American public has embraced the movie far, far more than anyone thought,” he said, noting that some box office analysts were initially doubtful that “12 Years a Slave” could take in much more than $10 million.
吉鲁拉不以为然。“美国公众对这部电影的热情远远超出所有人的想象，”他说。他指出有的票房分析人士一开始都怀疑《为奴十二年》的收入能不能达到1000万美元。
Still, ticket sales for “12 Years a Slave” are now less than half those for “Lee Daniels’ The Butler,” a similarly black-themed, reality-based movie.
然而《为奴十二年》目前的票房销售仍然不到《白宫管家》(Lee Daniels’ The Butler)的一半，后者是一部具有类似黑人主题的现实题材电影。
Mr. Daniels is the only African-American to have had a film nominated for best picture (“Precious”). As it happened, “The Butler” was unexpectedly shut out of the Oscar race. It received no nominations, even for Oprah Winfrey, one of its heavily promoted stars.
丹尼尔斯是唯一一个获得最佳影片奖提名（《珍爱》）的非裔美国人。但不知为何，《白宫管家》却出人意料地完全没有获得竞逐奥斯卡的机会。影片没有得到任何提名，连得到大量宣传的明星奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)都没有。
That slam, just one in a year that would be full of them, helped clear the way for the “12 Years a Slave” victory. But only by a smidgen.
这一个沉重打击，只是一年里所遭受的无数打击中的一次，它帮《为奴十二年》的胜利扫清了道路。不过也就是帮了那么一点点。