“The Grandmaster,” a hypnotically beautiful dream from the Hong Kong filmmaker Wong Kar-wai, opens with curls of smoke, eddies of water and men soaring and flying across the frame as effortlessly as silk ribbons. The men are warriors, street fighters with furious fists and winged feet, who have massed together on a dark, rainy night to take on Ip Man (Tony Leung), a still figure in a long coat and an elegant white hat. Even amid the violent whirlpools of rain and bodies, that hat never leaves his head. It’s as unyielding as its owner.
《一代宗师》是香港电影导演王家卫带来的一个美丽迷人、令人陶醉的幻梦。片头中烟雾和水汽形成旋流，嘶吼的男人们在画面里飘来飘去，像丝带一样轻盈。这些男人是武士和街头战士，有着插翅般的双脚和愤怒的铁拳，他们在这个黑暗的雨夜聚集起来，围攻叶问（梁朝伟饰），他是一个身穿长袍，头戴优雅白帽的沉静男子。就连深陷暴雨与躯体组成的激烈漩涡，那顶帽子也从未离开过他的头，它和它的主人一样倔强，不肯屈服。
Keep your eye on that hat, which retains its iconographic power even when Ip Man takes it off to, say, take down a roomful of opponents. The white hat may be an invention — in many archival photos of the real Ip Man (1893-1972), a revered martial-arts master, he’s bareheaded — but there’s a mythic air to the dashing figure wearing it. However much history informs this movie, “The Grandmaster” is, at its most persuasive, about the triumph of style. When Ip Man slyly asks “What’s your style?” it’s clear that Mr. Wong is asking the same question because here, as in his other films, style isn’t reducible to ravishing surfaces; it’s an expression of meaning.
注意这顶帽子，即便在叶问把它摘下的时候，它的形象也具有力量，比如说震慑住满屋的对手。这顶白帽子是一个杜撰——在很多历史照片里，真实生活中的武术大师叶问(1893-1972)是不戴帽子的——但在影片里，这个风度翩翩的人物戴着它，却产生了一种神秘气息。不管片中到底有多少真实历史成分，《一代宗师》在其最有说服力的时刻里，是关于风格的胜利。当片中叶问狡黠地问：“你是什么风格？”时，显然王家卫也在问着同样的问题，因为“风格”在这部片子里和在他的其他影片里一样，并不仅仅是可以省略的华丽表面，而是深刻内涵的表达。
It’s been five long years since Mr. Wong, one of the greatest filmmakers working today, had a new movie, and it’s a pleasure to have him back. His last, “Ashes of Time Redux,” released in 2008, was new only in that it was a reworking of his 1994 “Ashes of Time,” an elliptical meditation on memory in the cloak of a swordsman movie. Perhaps taking a cue from Francis Ford Coppola’s “Apocalypse Now Redux,” Mr. Wong returned to “Ashes of Time,” stirred it a bit and emerged with an even lovelier version of that signature work. If the first film definitively signaled that his interests transcended genre and conventional narrative, “Redux” largely felt like a necessary palate cleanser after “My Blueberry Nights,” his only English-language film and only dud.
王家卫是目前尚在拍片的最伟大的导演之一，但他已经有五年没有拍新片了，他的回归令人喜悦。他的上一部片子《东邪西毒：终极版》于2008年发行，只是对1994年《东邪西毒》的重新剪辑，那是一部披着剑侠片外衣的含蓄回忆。或许是受弗朗西斯·福特·科波拉(Francis Ford Coppola)的《现代启示录：终极版》(Apocalypse Now Redux)启发，王家卫重新回到《东邪西毒》，对它做了一点改变，为自己的这部代表作推出了一个更美好的版本。最初的《东邪西毒》确凿无误地表明他对跨越电影类型和传统叙事的爱好，《终极版》很像《蓝莓之夜》(My Blueberry Nights)后必要的审美大清理——《蓝莓之夜》是他唯一一部英语影片，也是唯一一部失败之作。
“The Grandmaster” is yet another martial arts movie, though to describe it as such is somewhat like calling “L’avventura” a thriller about a missing woman. Arguments can be made, but would miss the mark. So would expectations of historical fidelity. Predictably, “The Grandmaster” is, given this filmmaker, less a straight biographical portrait of Ip Man and more an exploration of opposing forces like loyalty and love, horizontal and vertical, and the geometry of bodies moving through space and time. Ip Man’s experience as a martial arts master and even as a teacher to Bruce Lee are factors, but when Ip Man isn’t fighting, he transforms into one of Mr. Wong’s philosophers of the heart, one whose life is filled with inchoate longing, poetic observations and complicated women.
《一代宗师》也是武侠题材的影片，尽管这么说有点像把《奇遇》(L’avventura)形容为一部关于失踪女人的惊悚片。众说纷纭，但总是说不出重点。对历史真实性的期待也肯定会落空。不出所料，鉴于这位导演的风格，《一代宗师》不是对叶问平铺直叙的传记式描绘，更像是对种种对立力量的探索，诸如忠诚与爱、横与竖，乃至身体在时空中移动的几何学。叶问作为武术宗师乃至李小龙师父的经历是其中的组成部分，但当叶问不打斗的时候，他就成了王家卫式的心灵哲学家，人生中充满未酬的渴望、诗意的观察与复杂的女性。
Ip Man, sometimes called Yip Man, was born as Ip Kai Man or Yip Kai Man. Mr. Wong makes him 40 when the movie opens in China 1936, and while the historical figure would have been somewhat older, it sounds better when, in voice-over, Mr. Leung explains that if life has four seasons, his first 40 years were spring. Ip Man practices a style of kung fu called wing chun, which is often translated as “beautiful spring.” In the film, his metaphoric season begins with him being called on to demonstrate his style for Gong Baosen (Wang Qingxiang), a grandmaster visiting from the Japanese-controlled north. Having decided to retire, Gong has arrived in Foshan, in the south, for a celebration and an exhibition of the local kung fu talent. His truer intention may be to find the worthiest martial arts successor.
叶问原名叶继问。王家卫的电影始于1936年的中国，当时叶问40岁，真实历史人物可能会显得苍老一些，因此梁朝伟在画外音中解释说，如果人生有四季，他人生中的前40年都是春天，这听上去感觉更好。叶问练的是一种名叫“咏春”的功夫，通常被翻译为“beautiful spring”（美丽的春天）。在影片中，这个隐喻的季节始于他被要求向宫宝森（王庆祥饰）展示自己的招式。宫宝森也是一位宗师，来自被日军占领的北方，他决定退休，因此来到南方的佛山，举办庆典，并发现本地的功夫天才。他的真实目的或许是为了寻觅最有价值的武学继承人。
During his visit Gong speaks about the historical rift between the south and north through their martial arts practices, a division that, however entertainingly illustrated in a series of fights, carries unmistakable urgency because of the Japanese occupation, the coming war and, more obliquely, the fissures of the 1949 Communist Revolution. “The Grandmaster” remains rooted in one man’s experiences, but it’s also, unmistakably, a portrait of his country. You don’t learn the names of Ip Man’s children, yet you do learn those of his martial arts adversaries, the good, bad and ugly who stand in for a divided China. His personal life, meanwhile, remains an exquisite abstraction — close-ups of his mournful wife, scenes of domestic bliss and of horror — with none of the visceral realism of his fights.
在这次访问中，宫宝森谈起了南北武术界在习武活动中的不和，这个分歧虽然以一系列打斗被娱乐化地呈现出来，但毫无疑问，是个迫切的问题，因为面临日本侵略，战争就要临头，此外还隐晦地暗示了1949年共产主义革命带来的损害。《一代宗师》植根于一个男人的经历，但无疑也为他的祖国描绘了一幅画卷。你不会知道叶问的子女叫什么名字，但你会知道他在武术上的对手们的名字，好的、坏的、丑陋的，他们都代表一部分分裂的中国。与此同时，他的个人生活保持着一种微妙的抽象——特写镜头落在他哀恸的妻子身上，还有家庭幸福与恐怖的场景——这与他的打斗戏中入骨的现实主义截然不同。
The fight scenes are by turns kinetic and balletic, and thoroughly sublime. Choreographed by the action maestro Yuen Wo Ping, each has a different cadence, inflection and purpose and, like the numbers in a musical, drive the story or bring it to an enchanted standstill. In one fight, Ip Man clashes with a brothel denizen wearing the tiny shoes of a woman with bound feet. Ginger Rogers only had to dance backward in heels. In another, he uses metal chopsticks to ward off a razor. His greatest opponent will be the old grandmaster’s daughter, Gong Er (Ziyi Zhang), a heartbreaking beauty who makes a loud entrance in Western-style shoes. Once she slips into traditional dress, she flutters into the air like a butterfly, her body arcing against Ip Man’s in an erotic pantomime of yin and yang.
打斗的场景是活跃的，如同芭蕾一般，而且从头到尾十分优美。动作大师袁和平担任舞美设计，每一场打斗戏都具有不同的节奏、转折和目的，而且，就像音乐剧中的歌曲一样，会驱动故事的发展，或把它带入一种迷人的停滞状态。在其中一场打戏里，叶问与一个缠小脚的妓院女子打斗——琴吉·罗杰斯(Ginger Rogers)要是只用脚后跟跳舞，舞姿肯定会变得笨拙。在另一场戏里，他用金属筷子回击剃刀的攻击。他最大的对手是那位老功夫大师的女儿宫二（章子怡饰），她有着令人心碎的魅力，穿着西式的鞋子，步伐响亮地走进房间。当她穿上传统服饰，像蝴蝶一样在空中飘荡，屈起的身体衬托着叶问的身体，就像一出充满性欲的哑剧，讲述关于阴与阳的故事。
Here, as in Mr. Wong’s earlier films, his sumptuous excesses — the lush music, the opulent rooms, the seductive drift, the thundering blows — both help tell the story and offer something more. When, for instance, Ip Man sits motionless while everyone rushes around him in fast motion, as if he and they were living in different time signatures, it’s an expression of radical isolation that’s so vivid it lingers after the scene ends. Through these different, obviously artificial speed settings, Mr. Wong isn’t simply showing you a man alone or a memorable picture of loneliness; he is also suggesting that this is what the experience of isolation feels like. Again and again in “The Grandmaster,” images become feelings which become a bridge to this distant world.
在这里，和王家卫的早期电影中一样：丰富的音乐、豪华的房间、演员性感的漂浮与雷霆般的打斗……各种奢华的手法都有助于故事的推进，并且提供了更多弦外之音。比如在一幕戏里，其他人包围了叶问，以快进动作向他冲过来，他却还一动不动地坐在那里，仿佛他们生活在不同的时间之中。这是一种极度孤独的表现，在这一幕结束时，仍然如此鲜明，萦绕不去。通过这些极度艺术化的、迥异的速度设置，王家卫不仅是想向观众展现一个孤独的男人，或者关于孤独的难忘一幕；他想告诉你，孤独的体验是一种什么样的感觉。在《一代宗师》里，画面反复成为一种感觉，传递着来自那个遥远世界的消息。
The version of “The Grandmaster” that opens on Friday is shorter and somewhat different from the one that has played abroad, including at festivals. Explanatory text has been added and some chronology ironed out, which may shed light on a few of the more lurching transitions. Although these changes are said to have been approved by Mr. Wong (consent that may have more to do with contractual obligations than happy compromises), it’s too bad that the American distributor didn’t have enough faith in the audience to release the original. Even in its altered form, “The Grandmaster” is one of the truly galvanizing cinematic experiences of the year, and while I’ve seen this version twice, I am eagerly looking forward to the original in all its unfettered delirium.
周五上演的《一代宗师》是一个较短的版本，和在海外与电影节上映的版本有所不同。加入了解释性的字幕，一些年代大事被删掉了，这种处理会让一些比较突兀的过渡显得清晰一点。尽管这些改动据说是经过了王家卫的许可（更可能是出于合同的约束，而不是心甘情愿的妥协），美国的分销商对观众没有足够信心，不肯发行原始版本，实在非常糟糕。然而即便是这个修改版，《一代宗师》也堪称本年度激动人心的观影体验之一，看过这个版本两次之后，我非常渴望看到那个所有无拘无束的谵妄话语都未被删去的版本。