IN a society where almost every cultural phenomenon ends up interpreted through an ideological lens, the success de scandale of “Fifty Shades of Grey” — the books, the movie, the branded cuffs and whips — has left culture warriors a little bit confused. Is this another transgressive breakthrough — the latest blow to whatever remains of traditional morality, the mainstreaming of a lifestyle long locked away from view? Or is the now-famous story, with its alpha male gazillionaire and his punished female prize, actually a reactionary fairy tale, encouraging submission to the latest version of the patriarchy?
我们的社会中，几乎一切文化现象最后都要透过意识形态作一番解读，《五十度灰》(Fifty Shades of Grey)——书、电影、手铐和鞭子品牌——凭负面评价走红，让诸位文化战士感到有些困惑。这是否是道德底线的又一次突破——对所剩无几的传统道德发起的最新一次冲击，将一种多年来讳莫如深的生活方式奉为主流？还是说这个如今已经很出名的故事，包括里面的男子汉亿万富翁和他那个受惩戒的女性宝贝，其实是一个逆反潮流的童话，在怂恿世人屈从于一个最新版的父权社会？
The answer, of course, is a little of both, which is also the secret to the books’ success: In their not-exactly-literary pages, the central tension of the sexual revolution is finessed, tamed and happily resolved.
答案当然是两者都沾一点，而这也正是这几本书成功的秘诀：在算不上多有文学气息的字里行间，性爱革命的核心张力被巧妙驯服，得到了圆满解决。
Viewed from one angle, the sexual revolution looks obviously egalitarian. It’s about extending to everyone the liberties — the freedom to be promiscuous, to pursue sexual fulfillment without guilt — that were once available only to privileged cisgendered heterosexual males. It’s about ushering in a society where everyone can freely love and take pleasure in anyone and anything they want.
从一个角度看，这场性爱革命显然具备平等主义的特质。它要让所有人都获得自由——有淫乱的权利，不带负罪感地追求性满足——而这些，一度是由掌握特权的顺性别异性恋男性独享。它要拥抱一个人人可以自由去爱的社会，人可以从任何感兴趣的人和物那里获取快感。
But viewed from another angle, that same revolution looks more like a permission slip for the strong and privileged to prey upon the weak and easily exploited. This is the sexual revolution of Hugh Hefner and Larry Flynt and Joe Francis and roughly 98 percent of the online pornography consumed by young men. It’s the revolution that’s been better for fraternity brothers than their female guests, better for the rich than the poor, better for the beautiful than the plain, better for liberated adults than fatherless children ... and so on down a long, depressing list. At times, as the French writer Pascal-Emmanuel Gobry recently suggested, this side of sexual revolution looks more like “sexual reaction,” a step way back toward a libertinism more like that of pre-Christian Rome — anti-egalitarian and hierarchical, privileging men over women, adults over children, the upper class over the lower orders.
但再换个角度，同样还是这场革命，似乎更像给强大的、掌握特权的人发了一张许可证，让他们可以去捕杀那些弱小的、容易被利用的人。这是休·海夫纳(Hugh Hefner)、拉瑞·弗莱恩特(Larry Flynt)、乔·弗朗西斯(Joe Francis)的性爱革命，年轻男性消费的网络色情内容，大概有98%属于此类。这样的革命更利于兄弟帮(fraternity)的男性，而不是他们的女性宾客，更利于富人而非穷人，更利于漂亮的人而非相貌平平的人，更利于身心解放的成年人而非没有父亲的儿童……这样令人沮丧的对比还可以列出很多很多。正如法国作家帕斯卡-伊曼纽尔·格布利(Pascal-Emmanuel Gobry)近日所提出的，从这个角度看到的性爱革命，有时更像是“性爱反革命”，是转过身去，向一种更接近前基督教时代罗马的放荡主义大踏步进发——反平等，等级化，男尊女卑，重长轻幼，上层社会压迫底层。
At times, the two sides of the revolution have come into conflict with each other. Think of Gloria Steinem going undercover as a Playboy bunny; or 1980s-era feminists campaigning against pornography; or today’s social justice activists making war on campus frats.
有时这场革命的两面彼此会发生冲突。比如格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)隐姓埋名去作花花公子兔女郎；或1980年代女性主义者对色情制品的抵抗运动；或今天的社会正义活动人士向大学兄弟帮文化宣战。
But the essential dream of our age isn’t conflict; it’s a synthesis, in which the aristocratic thrills of libertinism are somehow preserved but their most exploitative elements are rendered egalitarian and safe.
但是，我们这个时代的根本梦想并非冲突；而是一种结合，放荡主义中贵族风范带来的刺激，被以某种方式保留了下来，但最具剥削性的元素经过处理后已经变得平等而安全。
The hope, in other words, is that we can eventually have the fun of Rome without all the nasty bits: Contraception and abortion will pre-empt the inconvenient infant, age-of-consent laws will make sure that young people’s initiation doesn’t start too early, and with enough carefully drawn up regulations for initiating intercourse we can all experience the courts of Tiberius and Heliogabalus without anybody getting hurt.
换句话说，目标是最终能像罗马人一样享乐，同时不用碰那些令人不快的东西：用避孕和堕胎防止麻烦的婴孩出现，有关“同意年龄”的法律让年轻人不要太早加入进来，通过针对发起性交精心制定的法规，我们可以体验到提贝里乌斯(Tiberius)和赫利奥加巴鲁斯(Heliogabalus)时代的宫廷淫乐，却又不会伤害到任何人。
So our sexual egalitarians don’t want to shut down the party or end the bacchanal. They just want hookup culture to be governed by affirmative consent, for prostitutes to become empowered sex workers, for misogynistic porn to be balanced out by feminist alternatives, for dangerous patriarchal polygamy to give way to safe egalitarian polyamory, and for De Sade’s Justine to find happiness as a submissive protected by her safe words.
所以说，我们的性爱平权人士不打算制止派对或终结狂欢。他们只是希望用“明确同意”来控制我们的求爱文化，让妓女成为被赋权的性工作者，歧视女性的色情可以用女性主义的另类作品来平衡，危险的父权一夫多妻制要让位于安全的平等多元之爱，让萨德(De Sade)的瑞斯丁娜在安全暗语的保护下，享受被任意摆布的幸福。
This is the landscape in which “Fifty Shades of Grey” has found its audience, with a story almost perfectly suited to this dream: A fantasy of being chased, seduced and whipped by an embodiment of the .001 percent, a man who’s dangerous but not too dangerous, thrillingly Caligulan but ultimately vulnerable, and who proves himself to be a caring spouse and father in the end.
《五十度灰》就是在这样一个背景下找到它的受众群的，它的故事几乎完美贴合了一个梦想：一个被0.001%权贵阶层的化身追求、勾引、鞭挞的幻想，这是一个危险而又不会太危险、如卡里古拉(Caligula)般让人毛骨悚然但实际上脆弱不堪的男人，最终证明自己是一个体贴的配偶和父亲。
A real-life Christian Grey, the man set free from all restraint, would probably be a pure satyr like the sex-partying Dominique Strauss-Kahn or the billionaire Jeffrey Epstein, with his private-jet harems and the conviction for soliciting a 14-year-old. But in the fantasy, the synthesis, he’s a guy who will first dominate you but ultimately love you — providing that, like Anastasia Steele, you’re careful to sign a rigorously detailed contract detailing just how much domination you’ll accept.
真实生活中的克里斯蒂安·格雷(Christian Grey)，摆脱一切桎梏的男人，可能会是个纯粹的好色之徒，比如玩性爱派对的多米尼克·斯特劳斯-卡恩(Dominique Strauss-Kahn)，或在私人飞机上翻云覆雨、被判教唆14岁幼女卖淫罪名成立的亿万富翁杰弗里·爱泼斯坦(Jeffrey Epstein)。但在幻想中，在两面结合起来后，他就成了一个首先要操控支配你，最终却爱上你的人——前提是你要跟阿纳斯塔西娅·斯迪尔(Anastasia Steele)一样足够地小心，签一份事无巨细的合同，详尽阐明你能接受多大程度的操控。
And the sophisticated complaints against the books are equally illuminating. The problem isn’t that there’s anything wrong with pornography or sadism — don’t be silly! No, it’s just that the sadism isn’t quite safe enough (because the heroine doesn’t have a real BDSM adept’s skill at setting ground rules), that Mr. Grey’s kinks are judged a little too harshly (they’re rooted in childhood trauma, which is unfair to the dungeon set), and the romance is too old-fashioned and “straight” and not quite empowering enough.
这一系列受到的深刻的批评，同样也是发人深省的。问题不在于色情或性虐有什么不对——别傻了！不是的，只是性虐还不够安全（因为女主角并非皮绳愉虐的行家，没能力制定基本规则），格雷先生的癖好受到的苛责有些过分（这些东西的根源都是童年创伤，对于地牢那场戏来说是不公平的），爱情太老套、太“直”了，也没有赋予人足够的力量。