Few major languages have felt the effects of globalization and modernization more acutely than Mandarin. The increasing use of keyboard devices, for example, has caused many Chinese to forget how to write characters by hand, to the extent that there is even a popular television show in which contestants compete to write complicated characters from memory.
很少有哪种重要语言像汉语普通话一样感受到了全球化和现代化所带来的重大影响。例如，由于人们目前对键盘的使用越来越频繁，许多中国人都忘了如何用手写字。一档颇受欢迎的电视节目甚至还让人们比赛，看谁能凭记忆写出复杂的汉字。
Another consequence of China’s advancing global integration is less unique to Chinese: the incorporation of foreign words. While the absorption of such words is often seen as a positive mark of a society’s cosmopolitanism, the reaction in China has been anything but positive – at least according to state media.
中国正在发展的全球一体化所带来的另一个影响对于中国来说就不那么独特了：外语词的融入。吸收外语词往往被视作世界大同的积极现象，而中国却不认为这是一种积极现象——至少从国家媒体来看并非如此。
In an editorial last week, People’s Daily lambasted the influx of foreign words, accusing them of having “harmed the purity and health” of the Chinese language.
《人民日报》在上周的一篇社评中对外语词的涌入进行了抨击，说这些词“破坏了汉语的纯洁和健康”。
“The use of imported words is becoming more widespread every day,” the newspaper wrote. “It’s become so serious that the foreign words are even showing up in regular publications and formal documents, giving rise to resentment among the public.”
“外来语的使用日益广泛，”《人民日报》称。“外语词的过度使用现象日趋严重，甚至堂而皇之地出现在正规出版物和正式文件中，引起公众不满。”
Citing the increasing prevalence of terms like WiFi, C.E.O., M.B.A., C.B.D., V.I.P. and PM2.5, the editorial sought to explain the reasons behind what the newspaper called “zero translation,” focusing specifically on English loan words written in the Roman alphabet.
这篇社论指出，如今WiFi、CEO、MBA、CBD、VIP和PM2.5等词的使用越来越广，希望能借此阐明它所谓的“零翻译”是出于何种原因，它关注的主要是用罗马字母书写的英语外来词。
“Why are Nuojiya [Nokia] and Motuoluola [Motorola] translated into Chinese, but not iPhone and iPad?” the newspaper asked. “When English absorbs Chinese words they are all transliterated, so why does Chinese have to be mixed up with so much English?”
“为什么‘诺基亚’‘摩托罗拉’能译成汉字，而iPhone和iPad就没能翻译过来？”《人民日报》问道。“英语吸收汉语词汇都改为字母拼写，为什么汉语中却要夹杂大量英文？外来语对汉语的纯洁和健康的伤害到底有多大？”
Several linguistics experts interviewed by People’s Daily offered multiple theories for the phenomenon, ranging from “laziness” among Chinese who use English abbreviations because it requires less effort, to the “might of the Western culture” and a lack of talented translators.
该报采访的几名语言学专家就这种现象给出了多种理论，从英语缩写使用者图省事的“懒惰”，到“西方文化的强势”，再到优秀翻译的缺乏。
“In the past, if you asked for the name of a famous translator – Fu Lei, Zhu Shenghao, Xu Yuanchong, Lu Gusun, etc. – a bunch of names would come to mind,” Wu Bo, a professor at China Foreign Affairs University in Beijing told People’s Daily. “Today how many can you name? Phoenix feather and unicorn horn!” he exclaimed, using a Chinese idiom indicating the extreme rarity of an object.
“早年，说起著名翻译家，傅雷、朱生豪、许渊冲、陆谷孙等一大串名字会浮上脑海，”外交学院英语系教授武波告诉《人民日报》，“现在，你能想起谁？凤毛麟角！”他用的这个中文成语是表示某个事物很稀缺。
Another reason for China’s linguistic borrowing, according to Xia Jixuan, a government linguistics expert, may have to do with China’s stage of development. “The cultural self-confidence of the Chinese people will increase as China becomes stronger,” Mr. Xia told the newspaper. “At some point, the flood of foreign words will slowly ebb,” he said, and existing loan words may even be converted into Chinese formulations.
据来自政府部门的语言学专家夏吉宣说，中国借用外来语的另一个原因可能和中国所处的发展阶段有关。“国人的文化自信会随着我国实力的增强而增长，”夏吉宣告诉《人民日报》。“到时，外来语泛滥现象将逐步‘退潮’”，他说，现有的一些借用词汇甚至可能恢复成汉语表述。
While the People’s Daily piece stopped short of calling for the elimination of foreign words altogether, it did emphasize the need for more purposeful adoption of foreign words and the use of Chinese translations of foreign terms where possible.
尽管《人民日报》的文章并未呼吁彻底消除外来词，但文章的确强调必须让外语词汇的使用更有意义，并且尽可能使用外语术语的中文翻译。
On the first official list of regulated Chinese translations, released last September, most of the foreign terms were abbreviations, such as “I.Q.” (intelligence quotient), “I.T.” (information technology), and “W.H.O.” (World Health Organization). Some of the official translations on the list, such as the Chinese for “AIDS,” were already more popular than the original English. Other foreign terms, such as “G.D.P.” or “PM2.5”, continue to be widely used, despite the government’s promotion of the Chinese translations. According to a separate editorial in People’s Daily, the second and third batches of official translations are to be released later this year.
在去年9月发布的《第一批推荐使用外语词中文译名表》中，多数外语专有名词都是缩写词语，比如“IQ”、“IT”，以及“WHO”。表中的有些中文译名现在已经比英文原名更为流行，比如“AIDS”的中文译名。虽然政府正大力推广中文译名，还有一些英语专有名词仍被广泛使用，比如“GDP”或“PM2.5”。《人民日报》的另一篇社论称，第二批和第三批外语词中文译名表将于今年晚些时候发布。
An example of a successful conversion from a foreign word into Chinese, said Mr. Xia, has been the evolution of the word “email.” After starting out in Romanized English, he said, the word was converted into a phonetic string of Chinese characters — 伊妹儿 (pronounced yi mei’r) — before morphing into its two most common present-day iterations, 电邮 (dianyou), literally “electronic mail,” and 邮件 (youjian), which simply means “mail.”
夏吉宣说，“email”是从外语词转为汉语词的一个成功例子。他说，人们一开始用Email，后来用汉字“伊妹儿”，现在则改用两个最常见的字，“电邮”，或者“邮件”。
Still, not all linguistics experts agree that the increased use of foreign words is necessarily a threat to the Chinese language.
不过，并非所有语言学家都认为，外语词汇使用数量的增多一定会威胁到汉语。
“There are no pure languages,” Victor Mair, professor of Chinese at the University of Pennsylvania, said in an email. Not only is constant change in a language “natural,” but “borrowing words from other languages is actually a healthy phenomenon,” wrote Mr. Mair, citing English and Japanese as examples of “powerful” languages that have vast numbers of borrowed words.
宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)中文教授梅维恒(Victor Mair)在一封邮件中写道，“不存在完全纯洁的语言。”梅维恒说，语言的不断变化是“自然的”，不仅如此，“借用其他语言的词汇实际上是一种健康的现象，”他举例说，英语和日语都是“强大的”语言，但都包含大量外来词汇。
One major reason why English loan words in Chinese far outnumber Chinese loan words in English, Mr. Mair said, is because many terms, particularly those related to science and technology, originated in the West and it takes time to translate a term and popularize the translation.
梅维恒说，之所以汉语里的英语词汇远远多于英语里的汉语词汇，一个主要原因是，许多专有名词来自西方，尤其是与科技有关的术语，要把一个专有名词翻译过来并推广，需要一定的时间。
Furthermore, linguistics experts have said that the widespread use of the pinyin Romanization system in China means that almost all Chinese of a certain age are familiar with the Roman alphabet and thus are comfortable seeing and using Roman letters.
另外，语言学家还表示，汉语拼音系统在中国的推广使用意味着，几乎所有一定年龄的中国人都熟悉拉丁字母，因此，他们看到和使用拉丁字母时并不觉得别扭。
The apparent drive to reduce the use of foreign words in Chinese is part of a larger campaign to diminish the influence of Western culture, and in particular the English language, in China. Last December, the Education Ministry announced that it was removing the English section from the national university entrance examination.
在中文中减少使用外来词的明显努力，看来是为了削弱西方文化、尤其是英语对中国影响的更广泛运动的一部分。去年12月，教育部宣布要取消全国高考中的英语考试。
In 2010, CCTV, the state television broadcaster, was reported to have received a notice urging it to remove from its programs Western abbreviations such as “NBA” (National Basketball Association) and “MP3” in favor of their long-winded Chinese translations: “Meiguo guojia lanqiu xiehui” and “dongtai yingxiang zhuanjia yasuo biaozhun yinpin cengmian 3,” respectively. (A glance at CCTV’s “NBA” page online suggests how successful that campaign was.)
据报道，国家电视台中央电视台在2010年接到通知，要求其在节目中不再使用诸如NBA(National Basketball Association)和MP3等英文缩写，而分别使用冗长的汉语翻译：“美国国家篮球协会”和“动态影像专家压缩标准音频层面3”。（在中央电视台网站上看一下关于“NBA”的页面，就能看出这一运动是多么成功。）