The extravagant, sometimes kitschy opening ceremony of the Sochi Olympics on Feb. 7 gave us a cleaned-up, World’s Fair version of Russian history, celebrating the glories of its scientific and artistic achievements while airbrushing the horrors of its Stalinist past. At the same time, the ceremony was devised to try to make the world forget the dark side of President Vladimir V. Putin’s Russia — its smothering of dissent, its oppressive antigay laws — and to promote an image of the country as a modernizing great power ascendant on the world stage.
2月7日，索契冬奥会那场铺张华丽，时有媚俗的开幕式向我们展示了一场简洁的、世界博览会式的俄罗斯历史，歌颂它在科学与艺术方面的辉煌成就，又把斯大林时代的恐怖一笔勾销。此外开幕式还精心设计，试图让整个世界忘记弗拉迪米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统统治俄罗斯期间的黑暗一面——扼制异见人士、制订压迫性的反同性恋法律——塑造出一个屹立于世界舞台的现代化超级大国形象。
From the journalist Gregory Feifer’s lively new book, “Russians: The People Behind the Power,” it is clear that the oversize ceremony was very much in keeping with a longstanding Russian penchant for the big and bold and italicized, and that the much-talked-about problems with the games (monumental cost overruns, unfinished hotel rooms, spring temperatures inhospitable to snowboarding and skiing) simply underscore pervasive troubles with corruption and Kremlin power politics in the Russia of today.
在记者格里高利·费弗引人入胜的新作《俄罗斯人：权力背后的人们》(Russians: The People Behind the Power)中，这个超大庆典与俄罗斯长久以来对宏大、醒目和强调的爱好是分不开的，冬奥会上那些麻烦不断、引起争议的问题（大笔超支、未建成的酒店房间，以及不适宜举办滑雪和滑冰运动的春季温度）令当今俄罗斯普遍存在的腐败，以及克里姆林宫实行的权力政治显得更加突出。
The very choice of Sochi (a Black Sea resort where Mr. Putin likes to summer) for the Winter Olympics defied logic and was a reminder of the role that irrationality has often played in Russian history (and in Russian literature, which reflects those absurdities). Mr. Feifer points out that “the city’s subtropical climate necessitated hoarding the previous year’s snow under thermal blankets on the surrounding Caucasus Mountains,” adding that “staging the world’s premier international sporting event within a half-day’s drive of North Caucasus regions where Islamist militants carry out almost daily attacks did more to defy reason.” Fears of suicide bombers and terrorism resulted in what has been called the most extensive security operation in sports history.
索契是黑海边上一处旅游胜地，普京喜欢在那里度夏，选择那里作为冬奥会举办地其实是违背逻辑的，让人想起非理性在俄罗斯历史上（乃至反映历史荒谬性的俄罗斯文学中）通常扮演的角色。费弗指出，“这座城市是亚热带气候，因此需要使用保温毯，储存前一年高加索山脉的积雪，”此外，“更不理性的是，第一流的国际体育赛事举办地距离北高加索地区只有半天车程，在那里，伊斯兰军事分子几乎每天都要发起袭击。”对自杀炸弹与恐怖主义袭击的恐惧导致了体育史上所谓最全面的安保措施。
With “Russians,” Mr. Feifer gives us a revealing, opinionated primer on the country where his mother grew up under Communism and where he served as Moscow correspondent for National Public Radio. It is a collagelike book, consisting of historical asides, family reminiscences, interviews with public figures and ordinary people, political assessments and sharp snapshots of the country across its nine time zones, from the gaudy Moscow restaurants and clubs that cater to the showboating new rich to the distant wastelands of Siberia, where cold and poverty still define daily life.
《俄罗斯人》是费弗为我们带来的一本富于启发、有见解的俄罗斯入门书。他的母亲在共产主义统治下的俄国长大成人，他自己在为国家广播电台担任驻莫斯科记者。这是一本拼贴式的书籍，里面有关于历史背景的旁白、家族回忆、对公众人物和普通人的采访、政治评估，以及为这个横跨九个时区的国家所拍摄的鲜明快照——从莫斯科那些花里胡哨、专为招摇的新富们开设的饭馆、俱乐部到边远西伯利亚的荒原，那里的人们依然每一天过着寒冷贫困的生活。
“Russians” does not have the depth of reporting and analysis that distinguished David Remnick’s books on the collapse of the Soviet empire and the birth of a new Russia (“Lenin’s Tomb,” “Resurrection“) and it retraces a lot of the same ground covered by Ben Judah‘s recent book, “Fragile Empire: How Russia Fell In and Out of Love With Vladimir Putin.” It also draws heavily on the thinking of scholars like Edward Keenan and Richard Pipes. What Mr. Feifer does very well is give the lay reader a spirited introduction to this complex country and its torturous past.
《俄罗斯人》并不像大卫·雷姆尼克(David Remnick)的《列宁的坟墓》(Lenin’s Tomb)和《复活》(Resurrection)等报道并阐释苏联帝国解体与全新俄罗斯诞生的书籍那样深刻，这本书中追溯的东西与本·犹大(Ben Judah)的新作《脆弱的帝国：俄罗斯与弗拉迪米尔·普京的情史》(Fragile Empire: How Russia Fell In and Our of Love With Vladimir Putin)也有大量重合之处。它还大量引用了爱德华·基南(Edward Keenan)与理查德·派普斯(Richard Pipes)等学者的思想。但费弗擅长为普通读者提供一种精神指引，去认识这个复杂的国家与它痛苦的过去。
There are sobering sections about Stalin’s terror and the gulags, and the social and psychological burdens and legacies of living in the Soviet Union — and more speculative passages about the ways the hardships of Russian history have shaped a cynical, even fatalistic attitude toward life. Mr. Feifer addresses current topics like Mr. Putin’s cult of personality, as well as age-old debates about the relationship between Russia and the West; the meaning of Russians’ passion for alcohol (the subject of the new book “Vodka Politics,” by Mark Lawrence Schrad); and the country’s historical susceptibility to authoritarian rule, attributed by some to its geographic vastness, by others to its backwardness and the population’s fear of chaos and disorder.
书中关于斯大林恐怖与古拉格、乃至苏联生活遗下的社会与心理负担及遗产的章节非常严肃冷静；而关于俄罗斯历史上的苦难塑造了俄罗斯人怀疑主义和宿命主义的人生观的章节则比较富于推测性。费弗的书中还谈到了时事话题，诸如普京对个性的狂热崇尚，关于西方与俄罗斯关系的旷日持久的讨论；俄罗斯人嗜酒背后的意义（马克·劳伦斯·施拉德[Mark Lawrence Schrad]以此为主题写了一本新书《伏特加政治》[Vodka Politics]）；乃至这个国家对独裁统治的历史遗留感情——部分是由于地域广大，部分是由于这个国家的落后，乃至人民对混乱无序状态的恐惧。
Mr. Feifer quotes Mr. Keenan talking about how “the great bulk” of people shared with Soviet leaders “a conviction that only a powerfully centralized and oligarchic government can protect the order which they all crave”; with little understanding of “democratic electoral constitutionalism,” they tend not to appreciate “the legalistic niceties so admired elsewhere.”
费弗引用基南的话，说人民中的“绝大多数”都和苏联领导人一样，“相信只有集权和寡头政府能够保护他们共同渴望的秩序”；对“民主选举宪政”几乎一无所知，他们并不欣赏“在其他地方受到赞赏的那些尊重法律的细节”。
Mr. Feifer argues that such Keenan observations about the Soviet Union “hold largely true about contemporary Russia”: “After another decade of radical change that threatened to overthrow the traditional political culture — the post-Soviet 1990s — Putin, in essence, reimposed the old way of doing things.”
费弗说，基南对苏联的这些观察“很大程度上也适用于当今的俄罗斯”，“又是一个巨变的十年过去，传统政治文化——既20世纪90年代的后苏联文化——似乎即将被推翻，然而普京实际上重新带回了旧有的方式。”