It would drive Steve Jobs nuts to know that the new movie about his life has all the sex appeal of a PowerPoint presentation. It isn’t only that Microsoft PowerPoint has become synonymous with the dry, dreary, droning of corporate meetings, it’s also that Microsoft was itself a favorite target of Jobs. (“The only problem with Microsoft,” he said, “is they just have no taste.” Also: “They just make really third-rate products.”) Jobs, who died in 2011 at 56 from complications of pancreatic cancer, thought of himself as an artist, one who, in talking about the design of the Macintosh, said, “Great art stretches the taste, it doesn’t follow tastes.”
史蒂夫·乔布斯要是知道，自己的传记电影的吸引力和PPT差不多，一定会气得发疯。不仅因为微软的PowerPoint软件等同于枯燥乏味、千篇一律的公司会议，也是因为微软本身就是乔布斯最喜欢的靶子。他说过：“微软唯一的问题就是没品位。”还有“他们做的都是三流产品”。2011年，乔布斯因胰腺癌并发症逝世，卒年56岁，生前他一直把自己当做艺术家，在谈起麦金塔电脑(Macintosh)的设计时曾说：“伟大的艺术拓展自己的品味，而不是模仿他人的品味。”
The historical record is all that’s stretched in “Jobs,” which stars Ashton Kutcher and was directed by Joshua Michael Stern. Compression and omissions are part of any biography. So it’s to be expected that a two-hour movie about one of the most important public figures in recent times leaves out a lot, including famous feuds, forgotten colleagues and even significant business ventures. The point isn’t that there are gaps; the point is what and who have been left out. It’s understandable that a movie that concentrates on Jobs’s earlier years would overlook his involvement with Pixar, which he capitalized in 1986; given the filmmakers’ difficulties dealing with his difficulties it’s also understandable that they slide over a little player called the Xerox Corporation.
在阿什顿·库彻(Ashton Kutcher)主演，乔舒亚·迈克尔·斯坦(Joshua Michael Stern)导演的电影《乔布斯》(Jobs)中，唯一被拓展的只有历史记载。浓缩和删减是任何传记都无法避免的。这部电影只有两个小时，拍的却是近些年来世界上最重要的公众人物之一，可以想见它省略了许多著名的积怨、被遗忘的同伴乃至声名显赫的冒险事业。重点不在于有所省略，而在于省略了谁，省略了什么东西。这部电影只集中于乔布斯的早年生涯，忽略他曾于1986年投资皮克斯(Pixar)公司是完全可以理解的；鉴于该片制作者们没能身处乔布斯的困境与纠葛，所以省略了一个名叫“施乐公司”(Xerox Corporation)的小角色自然也没什么大不了。
The story of Jobs visiting Xerox’s Palo Alto research center in 1979 and realizing that the company was, as he put it, “sitting on a gold mine,” is an oft-repeated foundational tale, partly because he appropriated some of Xerox’s ideas. It was during this visit, he later said, that he could see “what the future of computing was destined to be.” In the movie this epiphanic moment seems to occur earlier, during an acid trip. It’s the early 1970s and Steve, who’s dropped out of college, is bumming around, usually barefoot. One day he and two friends, Chrisann Brennan (Ahna O’Reilly) and Daniel Kottke (Lukas Haas), go on a lysergically enhanced picnic that culminates with Steve drifting into a field and, as the camera twirls around him and the sun shines upon him, throwing his arms open to the infinite.
1979年，乔布斯拜访施乐公司的帕洛阿尔托(Palo Alto)研究中心，发现这家公司——用他的话说是——“正坐在金矿上”。这是个老生常谈的故事，部分是因为他欣赏施乐公司的若干创意。他后来说，正是在这次访问中，他看到了“电脑未来注定的样子”。在电影中，这顿悟的一刻似乎出现得更早，发生在他吃了迷幻药后。当时是20世纪70年代初，史蒂夫从大学辍学，光着脚四处流浪。有一天他和朋友克里珊·布伦南（Chrisann Brennan，阿娜·欧蕾利[Ahna O’Reilly]饰）和丹尼尔·科肯特（Daniel Kottke，卢卡斯·哈斯[Lukas Haas]饰）在野餐上吃迷幻剂助兴，高潮到来时，史蒂夫感觉在一片田野上漂浮，镜头围着他打转，阳光照耀在他身上，他展开双臂，迎向广阔无边的世界。
Before long, Steve has embraced his destiny, hooked up with Steve Wozniak (Josh Gad, delivering a sympathetic, sensitive performance) and is staring into a different immensity: the Apple computer and the technological revolution that it helped bring about. Things move quickly for Steve, who one minute is cobbling together the first Apple in his family’s garage and the next is crunching numbers with an investor, Mike Markkula (Dermot Mulroney). There are good, bad, happy, sad times, mostly with guys (women barely register), though it all gets heavier after Steve starts driving a Porsche and shacks up in a mansion with only an Einstein poster for company, a trajectory echoed in the soundtrack: “Life’s Been Good,” “Roll With the Changes,” “You Can Do (Whatever).”
不久后，史蒂夫就开始拥抱自己的命运，他与史蒂夫·沃兹尼亚克（Steve Wozniak，乔什·盖德[Josh Gad]饰，他的演绎敏感而充满同情）合作，开始思考更宏大的问题：苹果电脑与它所带来的技术革新。一切都发展得非常快，上一分钟史蒂夫还在家中的车库里组装第一台苹果电脑，下一分钟就开始和投资者迈克·马克库拉（Mike Markkula，德蒙特·莫罗尼[Dermot Mulroney]饰演）一起倒弄数字了。史蒂夫经历了好坏起伏，喜怒哀乐（主要是和男人，女人很少提及）；但自从他开上了保时捷，住进一栋只有一幅爱因斯坦招贴画的大宅后，情节就开始变得沉重起来，背景音乐呼应着这个轨迹：《生活一直很美好》(Life’s Been Good)、《迎接变化》(Roll With the Changes)、《你能做到（不管怎样）》(You Can Do[Whatever])。
Written by Matt Whiteley, the movie is bookended by scenes of the middle-aged Jobs, doing what some believed he did best: pitching new products. Fuzzed up and hunched over, Mr. Kutcher looks somewhat like the young Jobs, and there are moments — as when he gives another character a small, devious look as if sliding in a knife — that the casting seems more than a matter of bottom-line calculation. But Mr. Kutcher doesn’t have the tools that some actors use to transcend weak material and either he didn’t receive any help or didn’t allow any real direction from Mr. Stern. Mr. Kutcher’s tendency to cap so many emotional scenes with small, self-satisfied smiles is especially unfortunate because they can’t help but bring to mind his other career as a pitchman for digital cameras.
影片剧本由马特·怀特利(Matt Whiteley)创作，在片尾的镜头里，人到中年的乔布斯做着人们认为他最擅长的事情：推出新产品。库彻轻声细语，拱着背，看上去确实有点像年轻时的乔布斯，在他用刀锋般的眼神淡淡地瞥着其他角色时，让人感觉选角工作好像超乎了人们的预期。但是有些演员有能力超越薄弱的剧情，库彻却没有这个本事，而且他没有从斯坦导演那里得到任何帮助，也没有接受什么真正的指导。库彻倾向于用心满意足的小小微笑处理各种感情戏，这种处理很不合适，因为这让人联想起他代言数码相机的经历。
The greater blame rests on the filmmakers, who never find a way to navigate the “passions, perfectionism, demons, desires, artistry, devilry and obsession for control” that Walter Isaacson enumerated in “Steve Jobs,” his 2011 authorized biography. Mr. Stern and Mr. Whiteley pile up Jobs’s multitudes: he screams and smirks, the score rises triumphantly only to ease and darken. Other characters announce to Steve and one another that he’s changed. But how and why? There are nods at his adoption and the daughter he initially refused to acknowledge, but those never amount to much and, after a while, you don’t care. The Great Man theory of history that’s recycled in this movie is inevitably unsatisfying, but never more so when the figure at the center remains as opaque as Jobs does here.
更大的问题在于影片编导们，他们没找到方式去表达沃尔特·艾萨克森(Walter Isaacson)2011年出版的授权传记《史蒂夫·乔布斯》中列举的“热情、完美主义、魔鬼、欲望、艺术感、残暴与控制欲”。斯坦与怀特利堆砌了乔布斯的很多层面：他大叫，傻笑；背景音乐欢欣鼓舞地响起，之后又减弱，消失。其他人互相告诉对方，也告诉乔布斯他究竟改变了什么，但这是为什么？他又是怎么做到的？片中提到他被领养的经历，以及他起先拒绝承认的女儿，但没占多大分量，过一会儿观众就把这事忘了。“伟人创造历史”的理论一直在影片中回响，这显然不能令人满意，对于乔布斯这样一个一直保持神秘隐晦的焦点人物来说，就更加令人不能满意了。