After they nearly leveled the city in the opening battle sequence of the first sequel five years ago, the director Michael Bay’s robot-alien Transformers are returning to Shanghai for the latest edition of the blockbuster franchise, “Transformers: Age of Extinction.”
五年前，在第一部的开幕战中，导演迈克尔·贝(Michael Bay)的外星机器人变形金刚几乎将上海夷为平地，在这个系列的最后一部《变形金刚4：绝迹重生》(Transformers: Age of Extinction)中，他们又回到了这里。
The movie, the fourth installment in the popular live-action series, is set to be the closing film during the Shanghai International Film Festival on June 22, three days after it makes its world premiere in Hong Kong on June 19.
这个大受欢迎的真人实景系列影片的第四部被定为上海国际电影节6月22日的闭幕影片。6月19日，它在香港举行全球首映。
The unveiling of the film in mainland China and Hong Kong will be the culmination of an all-out effort that has been undertaken by Paramount Pictures and Mr. Bay to strengthen the foothold of both the franchise and the studio in China, currently the second largest box-office market in the world after the United States.
派拉蒙影业和迈克尔·贝为加强变形金刚系列及这家公司在中国的地位而采取全力以赴，该片在中国内地和香港的揭幕把他们的努力推向了顶点。中国现在是世界上仅次于美国的第二大票房市场。
The franchise has seen exceptional success in China as the highest-grossing movie series in China’s history, with the third installment “Transformers: Dark of the Moon” pulling in $166 million, according to chinafilmbiz.com. But the hope for the latest strategy, which at its core consists of partnering with Chinese producers and consulting with the Chinese authorities throughout the moviemaking and marketing processes, will help push the film into record-breaking territory for domestic box office sales as well as clear the path in the long term for future projects involving China.
据chinafilmbiz.com网站说，这个系列在中国格外成功，是中国历史上票房总收入最高的电影系列，《变形金刚3：月黑之时》(Transformers: Dark of the Moon)在中国的票房收入为1.66亿美元。最后这部的核心策略是和中国电影人合作，在电影拍摄和市场推广的整个过程中与中国相关部门协商。这一策略意在推动该片打破中国票房新纪录，并为未来涉及中国的电影项目铺平道路。
The co-production model, which requires a number of conditions including Chinese participation in financing, storyline, casting, and filming crew and locations, is one that holds great appeal for studios in Hollywood, as it entitles the producers to a greater share of domestic box office receipts and, if certain requirements are met, exempts films from China’s 34-film import quota on foreign films.
合拍模式有很多条件，包括中方参与融资、设计剧情、选角、影片摄制和选择拍摄地点。这种模式对好莱坞电影公司有很大吸引力，因为这让制片人有权获得更大份额的中国票房收入，而且如果满足某些要求，可以直接进入中国的34部进口影片限额之列。
Studios in Hollywood, eager to find ways to tap into the fast-growing film market in China, have begun to explore the model with varying degrees of success. For foreign filmmakers undertaking co-productions in China, the challenge lies in integrating the necessary Chinese elements in a way that is satisfactory to Chinese authorities and audiences while still making a film that is appealing to global audiences.
好莱坞电影公司急于寻找办法进入中国快速增长的电影市场，他们开始探索这种模式，获得了不同程度的成功。对与中国合拍电影的外国电影人来说，挑战在于融入必要的中国元素，令中国相关部门和观众满意，同时还能吸引全球观众。
“We wanted to make it very China-centric, but the Chinese elements couldn’t be the driving force behind the story,” said Marc Ganis, a co-founder of U.S.-based Jiaflix Enterprises, which, together with its Chinese joint venture partner China Movie Channel, was the Chinese production and marketing partner for “Transformers: Age of Extinction.”
“我们想让它以中国为中心，但是中国元素不能成为这个故事的驱动力，”美国Jiaflix Enterprises公司的联合创始人马克·加尼斯(Marc Ganis)说。该公司——与合资经营伙伴中国电影频道——是《变形金刚4：绝迹重生》的中方制片和市场推广伙伴。
“The story had to be the driving force itself,” he said.
“驱动力必须是故事本身，”他说。
For Mr. Bay and the film’s producers, this meant reaching out to the relevant Chinese authorities from the outset in 2012, before the script was even written.
对迈克尔·贝和电影制片人们来说，这意味着从2012年剧本还没写出来就和中国相关部门接触。
“The appropriate parties had input in script, locations, a whole host of matters as it related to the film,” Mr. Ganis said.
“双方酌情参与了剧本创作、地点选择和其他很多和电影相关的事宜，”加尼斯说。
In accordance with the guidelines from Chinese authorities, Mr. Bay shot parts of the film in several locations in mainland China, including Wulong, a county near the southwestern city of Chongqing known for its karst scenery; the Great Wall in Beijing; as well as in Hong Kong. The film also features two well-known Chinese actors, the actress Li Bingbing and the popular entertainer Han Geng; and a variety of products from Chinese companies, such as Red Bull China and C’estbon water.
按照中国相关部门的指示，贝在中国大陆的几个地方拍摄了部分片段，包括西南部城市重庆附近以喀斯特地貌闻名的武隆县，北京的长城，以及香港。这部电影还有两位著名的中国演员参演——女演员李冰冰和热门艺人韩庚——中国公司的几个产品也出现在影片中，比如中国生产的红牛和怡宝饮用水。
Looming large in the background of the making of “Transformers: Age of Extinction” was the lesson of “Iron Man 3.” “Iron Man 3” smashed opening weekend box office records when it came out in 2013. But soon after, Chinese officials and audiences became angered when it was revealed that the Disney-owned Marvel Studios, which had marketed the film as a joint venture between China and Hollywood, had released two versions of the film: one for Chinese audiences, which contained longer scenes with Chinese actors and locations, and one with many of those scenes cut for international audiences.
《变形金刚4：绝迹重生》在制作过程中接受了《钢铁侠3》(Iron Man 3)的教训。《钢铁侠3》2013年上映的那个周末打破了票房纪录。但是很快引起了中国官员和观众的愤怒，因为他们得知以中国和好莱坞合资企业身份发行该片的迪士尼漫威影业发行了两个版本：给中国观众的版本中，含有中国演员和地点的场景更长，给国际观众的版本中很多这些场景被剪掉了。
“Hollywood really got a bad rap for that movie,” said Raymond Zhou, a Chinese film critic. “One year after the movie showed in China, people are still talking about it.”
“好莱坞真的因为那部影片坏了名声，”中国影评人周黎明说，“那部电影在中国上映一年后，人们仍在谈论它。”
The controversy surrounding “Iron Man 3” arose in the wake of an announcement made just months prior by China’s State Administration of Radio, Film and Television about the need for closer scrutiny of co-productions between Chinese and foreign companies.
《钢铁侠3》的争议之所以产生是因为中国广播电影电视总局刚在那之前几个月发布了一项声明，称需要对中外合拍影片进行更严密的审查。
As a result, the makers of “Transformers: Age of Extinction” kept the lessons of “Iron Man 3” in mind, and were reminded of them “time and time again” by media, the authorities, and fans, said Mr. Ganis, who emphasized that there would be only one version of the film shown around the world.
加尼斯说，所以《变形金刚4：绝迹重生》的制作人们牢牢记住了《钢铁侠3》的教训，而且“一次又一次”地被媒体、相关部门和粉丝们提醒。他强调说该片在世界各地只有一个版本。
Whether or not Chinese audiences will be satisfied remains to be seen. Li Bingbing was asked in an interview with the entertainment channel of NetEase news portal whether she was worried that she might have been included in the film just to “buy soy sauce,” a Chinese euphemism meaning that a person has no business being there. She responded, “Isn’t buying soy sauce exactly what I’m doing?”
中国观众是否满意仍需拭目以待。新闻门户网站网易的娱乐频道在采访李冰冰时问她是否担心自己参演这部影片只是“去打酱油的”。她回答说，“我不就是去打酱油的吗？”
“No matter what I do, Chinese audiences will say I’m buying soy sauce,” she explained, adding that only if she were given a role bigger than that of an American celebrity would Chinese audiences be pleased.
“不管我做什么，还是会被中国人民说成打酱油啊，”她解释说。她补充说，除非她比美国明星的戏份还重，中国观众才满意。
Some, however, say the degree of inclusion of Chinese elements may not matter, given the immense popularity of the Transformers franchise in the country.
但是也有人说包含多少中国元素也许无关紧要，因为变形金刚系列在中国非常受欢迎。
“Of course I’ve been paying attention to developments about the new film,” said Huang Fangrong, 36, a former software engineer at the Chinese search engine Baidu and a huge fan of the franchise. When the third film in the series came out in 2011, Mr. Huang wrote a code so that when users searched for “Transformers” or “Transformers 3” on Baidu, they saw their search results page morph into a Transformer animation that walked across the page.
“我当然一直在关注这部新电影的进展，”中国搜索引擎百度的前软件工程师黄方荣说。36岁的黄是这个系列的超级粉丝。2011年这个系列的第三部上映时，黄写了个代码，当用户在百度上搜索《变形金刚》或《变形金刚3》时，他们看到自己的搜索结果页面变成了一个在页面上走动的卡通变形金刚。
“When we were younger we were just fanatical about the cartoons,” Mr. Huang said. “Now with all the new technology and the special effects, it’s even better.”
“我们更年轻的时候对卡通很狂热，”黄说，“现在有了新技术和特效，会做得更好。”