The hero of “Homeland” did not cheat death.
《国土安全》(Homeland)的英雄不会蒙骗死神。
Instead, the finale of Season 3 on Sunday cheated viewers of a classic thriller ending.
周日播出的第三季最后一集倒是骗了观众，让他们以为这是个惊悚片经典结局。
And it is almost admirable that the writers of this moody, conflicted spy series on Showtime are so determined to upend expectations — even at the cost of action, suspense and drama.
在这部气氛阴郁、纷扰丛生的Showtime间谍剧中，编剧对于颠覆众望的坚定立场简直令人钦佩——哪怕要以牺牲动作、悬疑和戏剧性为代价。
The twist on Sunday wasn’t just that Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) was killed — hanged by the neck in a Tehran square. That was sobering, but it was even more startling that the story didn’t end with his death.
周日的情节急转不仅是尼古拉斯·布罗迪（Nicholas Brody，达米安·刘易斯[Damian Lewis]饰）的死——他在德黑兰的一个广场上被处以绞刑。这让人倒抽了一口凉气，但更令人震惊的是，布罗迪死了，故事却未结束。
Instead, the title card, “Four months later,” introduced a series of rather mundane housekeeping details. Carrie (Claire Danes), who is more than eight months pregnant with Brody’s child, has prelabor jitters. Her former boss and mentor, Saul (Mandy Patinkin), who has been kicked out of the C.I.A., is at long last on a sun-soaked Mediterranean vacation with his wife, Mira (Sarita Choudhury). Mira cuts the string on a box of pastries, and it isn’t a booby-trapped bomb — it’s croissants.
相反，在“四个月后”的字幕出现以后，我们看到了一系列十分普通的家务事细节。已经怀孕八个多月的凯莉（Carrie Mathison，克莱尔·达内什[Claire Danes]饰）——孩子是布罗迪的——得了产前焦虑症。她那位被踢出中央情报局(CIA)的前老板和导师索尔（Saul，曼迪·帕廷金[Mandy Patinkin]饰）则与妻子米拉（Mira，萨莉塔·乔杜里[Sarita Choudhury]饰演）在洒满阳光的地中海度假。米拉割断甜点盒上的绳子，里面不是炸弹，而是牛角面包。
The last scene showed Carrie at C.I.A. headquarters to receive a promotion and attend a private ceremony to commemorate fallen operatives. Brody, whose alliances were always switching, was not included among the heroes. Later that night, with no one around to stop her, Carrie drew a star for Brody next to all the other sanctioned ones.
最后一幕，凯莉在中情局总部接受升职，并参加了一个纪念阵亡特工的内部活动。多次更换阵营的布罗迪没有被列在英雄名单之列。当天晚些时候，凯莉在身边没人的时候，在其他获得了英雄称号的名字旁，为布罗迪画了一颗星星。
Her sadness is real. But so is her work ethic and her ambition. When she discusses her next assignment with a fellow agent, Peter Quinn (Rupert Friend), her eagerness for the posting, in Istanbul, is almost repellent. Quinn, a black-ops assassin, is more touchy-feely about her pregnancy than she is.
她的悲伤是真挚的。她的职业操守和抱负也同样如此。当她与另一名特工彼得·奎恩（Peter Quinn，鲁珀特·弗兰德[Rupert Friend]饰演）谈论自己的下一份工作时，她对前往伊斯坦布尔工作的热切向往简直令人反感。奎恩这个机密行动特工比凯莉更加在乎她的怀孕。
And that’s the key to why “Homeland” is so much more layered and believable than the Fox thriller “24,” which was produced by some of the same people responsible for this show. Over three seasons and many dips into love sickness, monomania and manic depression, Carrie was always an ambitious, dedicated intelligence officer.
这就是《国土安全》比Fox的惊悚剧《反恐24小时》(24)层次更丰富、情节更可信的关键所在。两部剧拥有一部分相同的制作班底。凯莉在这三季中多次出现因爱痴狂、执迷和躁狂抑郁的情况，但她仍然是一名抱负远大、尽职尽责的情报工作者。
It was more shocking than surprising that Brody died. It was also shocking but not surprising to see Carrie back at headquarters, eager to stay in good stead with the new head of the C.I.A., former Senator Andrew Lockhart (Tracy Letts), even though Lockhart undermined Saul, tried to thwart Carrie’s career and blocked a rescue plan for Brody.
布罗迪的死与其说是出人意料还不如说是令人震惊。同样令人震惊但却不出人意料的是，凯莉竟然回到了中情局总部，急于为新任局长、前参议员安德鲁·洛克哈特（Andrew Lockhart，特拉西·莱茨[Tracy Letts]饰）效力，尽管此人曾中伤索尔，试图毁掉凯莉的前途，并阻止了援救布罗迪的计划。
Like so many television heroes and heroines, Carrie is a maverick and a rule breaker. More unusually, she is also a careerist.
与电视上的众多英雄一样，凯莉也是一个特立独行并经常破坏规矩的人。比较不同寻常的是，她有很高的职业抱负。
It was risky of the writers to get rid of Brody, even though the character outlived his plausible usefulness as a spy and as a romantic hero.
编剧去掉布罗迪是有风险的，尽管无论作为间谍还是浪漫英雄，他都已经失去了存在的价值。
Mr. Lewis is a remarkably talented actor who manages to convey every nuance of Brody’s multiple, ever-changing identities. But Brody’s doomed love affair with Carrie lost some of its zing with second chances. When the two were alone at last in a rustic, candlelit Iranian safe house — a Persian version of the lakeside cottage where they first had sex — it was hard not to smirk a bit.
刘易斯是一位才华横溢的演员，他成功地表现了布罗迪不断变化的多重身份间的细微差别。但是重头再来之后，布罗迪与凯莉注定没有结果的恋情失去了一些火花。等到二人在伊朗乡下一所靠蜡烛照明的安全屋——他们第一次发生关系时的湖畔小屋的伊朗版——独处时，很难忍住不发笑。
The poignancy of their last moments, making eye contact across a wire fence and crowds of angry Iranian demonstrators, was undercut by faint hints and visual red herrings, allowing viewers to believe that Brody would somehow escape the noose at the last second.
他们的最后时刻令人心痛，两人隔着铁栅栏四目相对，愤怒的伊朗人则在周围高声呐喊。但是，一些模糊的暗示和转移视线的东西减少了这种痛楚，让观众以为布罗迪将会在最后一刻逃离套索。
Carrie, however, sees firsthand that he is a goner. As he dangles from the neck, she even climbs the fence calling his name, and an Iranian guard hits the barrier hard with a riot stick, causing her to fall and miss his final death throes.
然而，凯莉亲眼看到布罗迪的生命已经无法挽回。他被绳索套住脖子，悬挂在空中，凯莉甚至爬上了栅栏，高呼他的名字，这时一名伊朗警卫走过来，用警棍重击栅栏，然后凯莉便摔了下来，没有看见布罗迪临死前的最后挣扎。
There was nothing unbelievable about the final outcome, and that too was a little anticlimactic. It turns out that Saul’s efforts to infiltrate the Iranian government worked: As they relax over the morning newspaper, Mira reads a headline saying the Iranians have agreed to pause their nuclear program if the West removes sanctions — a breakthrough that in real life is unfolding in real time.
最后的结局并没有任何不可信之处，而这本身也是对结局高潮气氛的一种反制。事实证明，索尔对伊朗政府进行渗透的工作起了作用：度假的时候，索尔和米拉看到了一份报纸，米拉读出了一则标题，说伊朗已经同意在西方停止制裁的情况下中止核项目——这个现实生活中的突破正在实时上演。
Saul is vindicated, and even Carrie, however heartbroken, has the satisfaction of knowing that she was right all along about Brody in all his shadings of guilt and innocence. The season ended with Carrie clearing Brody’s name and getting back into the spy game.
索尔的想法得到了证实，甚至连伤心欲绝的凯莉在得知自己对布罗迪的判断一直正确后也颇感欣慰。布罗迪既是有罪的，也是清白的。第三季在凯莉为布罗迪正名并重新回到间谍游戏的过程中结束了。
The finale of Season 3 was a smart, satisfying, though drawn-out denouement, with a few loose ends but none of the giant cliffhangers or suspense that leaves viewers eagerly waiting for Season 4.
第三季最后一集虽然有些拖沓，但是情节巧妙，令人满意。它还有一些疑问有待解决，但却没有留下一些让观众迫切盼望第四季的大悬念。