Spoiler alert: If you are a fan of “The Good Wife” and haven’t watched the last episode, please read something else.
小心剧透：如果你是《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)的粉丝，而且还没看最新一集，那请你不要看这篇文章。
Will Gardner died last Sunday. I was so upset I couldn’t sleep, took half a Valium at 3 a.m., overslept, took the wrong subway the next morning and ended up in Herald Square.
威尔·加德纳(Will Gardner)上周日死了。我太难过了，睡不着觉，凌晨3点吃了半片安定片，早上睡过了头，坐错了地铁，坐到了先驱广场。
Will Gardner, Alicia Florrick’s former lover and adversary on the CBS series “The Good Wife,” got gunned down when his client went berserk in a courtroom. Now fans know that what they have been waiting for will never happen. Will and Alicia will never have sex again. Will and Alicia had the best chemistry on television. They were hot. In spite of cable TV’s breaking sexual taboos, it’s still rare to find characters with chemistry. For the last two seasons, however, Will and Alicia had sex only in flashback. And then briefly.
威尔·加德纳是CBS电视剧《傲骨贤妻》中艾丽西娅·弗劳里克(Alicia Florrick)从前的恋人和对手。他的客户在法庭上发疯后开枪打死了他。现在粉丝们知道他们一直期待的事情永远都不会发生了。威尔和艾丽西娅永远也不会再做爱了。威尔和艾丽西娅是电视上最情投意合的恋人。他们对彼此充满激情。尽管有线电视经常打破性爱禁忌，但是在电视上依然很少能找到这样情投意合的恋人。但是，在过去两季里，威尔和艾丽西娅只在倒叙中有过性爱。而且很短暂。
That only made me want it for them more.
那让我更想让他们做爱。
For those of you who haven’t encountered this show, now in its fifth season, Alicia is a lawyer, the wife of a politician who slept with prostitutes, the mother of two teenagers. She is smart, cool (as in collected), beautiful but not in an intimidating or depressing way. Her hair does not have extensions. She is a normal-size person. You don’t look at her and think she hasn’t had a carb since 2002 or spends three hours a day at Bikram yoga. She is not bipolar like Carrie Mathison. She is not a pill addict like Nurse Jackie.
我给那些还没看过这部电视剧的人简单介绍一下。它现在演到第五季了。艾丽西娅是个律师，丈夫是名政客，和很多妓女睡过觉，他们有两个十几岁的孩子。她很聪明，很酷（在镇定的时候），很美丽，但是不会让人觉得害怕或者压抑。她的长发不是接上去的，她中等个头。看着她，你不会想到她从2002年就不再节食了，每天也不会花三个小时做高温瑜伽。她不像卡莉·马西森(Carrie Mathison)那样患有躁郁症；也不像护士杰基(Nurse Jackie)那样药物成瘾。
Nevertheless she has done some really stupid things.
不过，她做过一些特别愚蠢的事情。
Most important, she gave up sex with Will Gardner because she’s a mother. I can’t explain it any better than that. Apparently to the creators of the show, this made sense, that motherhood was incompatible with wild sex. If memory serves, it was Season 3, and she even threw out her black lace underwear. This upset me in the way that I get upset by stupid moves on favorite TV shows, as if a close friend had stabbed me. Alicia never dated anyone else afterward and no one has ever tried to fix her up. Instead, after giving up sex and Will, she went back to Mr. Big. Truthfully I so resent her husband that I simply think of him as someone who belongs to another show. Occasionally she has sex with him. I’m sure I speak for many viewers when I say I wish she didn’t.
其中最蠢的是，她放弃了和威尔·加德纳的性爱，因为她是个母亲。我想不出更好的理由。很明显，对这部电视剧的创作者们来说，母性和疯狂的性爱是不相容的。如果我没记错的话，在第三季里，她甚至扔掉了黑色蕾丝内衣。这让我很难过，我喜欢的电视剧中一些愚蠢的情节让我难过的程度，差不多像一位密友捅了我一刀。从那以后，艾丽西娅从未和其他人约会过，也从来没人尝试给她安排相亲。相反，在放弃了性爱和威尔之后，她回到了大先生(Mr. Big)身边。真的，我特别讨厌她丈夫，从没把他当成这部电视剧里的人。她偶尔也跟他发生性关系，但是我希望她没那么做，我相信很多观众和我想的一样。
Michelle and Robert King, the show’s creators, posted a note to fans, assuring us that Will Gardner may be dead, but Josh Charles, who plays him, “is very much alive and remains an integral part of our family.” Thank you. I may be obsessed with the show, but I do know the difference between a fictional character and a real person. Josh Charles wants to “move on to other creative endeavors,” they say. He wants to direct, for instance. Who doesn’t? I’m sure if my dog could speak, she would say she wants to direct.
这部电视剧的创作者米歇尔和罗伯特·金(Michelle and Robert King)给粉丝们发了一条消息，让我们放心，威尔·加德纳也许死了，但是饰演他的乔希·查尔斯(Josh Charles)“还活得好好的，仍是我们这个大家庭中不可分割的一部分”。谢谢哦。虽然我对这部电视剧很痴迷，但我还是知道虚构人物和真实人物之间的区别的。他们说，乔希·查尔斯想“转去做其他有创造性的工作”。比如说，他想去当导演。谁不想当导演啊？我敢打赌，要是我的狗会说话，她也会说自己想当导演。
Characters often die because actors want to move on. Personally I think it is extremely selfish of Josh Charles to move on. I don’t understand why he doesn’t care about me. About my lying propped up in bed every Sunday evening wanting to spend time with him, wishing that one day he and Alicia would get it on one more time. That she will finally get rid of her husband. That, as imperfect as they are, she and Will finally realize they belong together. Doesn’t he know that a great show isn’t just something you watch? There is ritual, expectations built up over years. Love.
电视里的人物死去往往是因为演员们想离开。我个人认为乔希·查尔斯离开是极端自私的行为。我不明白他为什么那么不在乎我。不在乎我每个周日晚上半躺在床上想和他共度一段时光，期待着有一天他和艾丽西娅能再爱一次；期待着她能最终甩掉她丈夫；期待着他和艾丽西娅能最终意识到他们属于彼此——尽管他们都不完美。难道他不知道一部伟大的电视剧不只是你观看的某种东西。它里面有习惯，有多年建立起来的期待。还有爱。
Alicia, based on Silda Spitzer, the ex-wife of former Gov. Eliot Spitzer, represents all the wronged political spouses, including, of course, Hillary Clinton and Huma Abedin. After these women were publicly humiliated, Huma could keep herself busy with a job at the State Department and Hillary went on to be a United States senator. Ms. Spitzer became a principal at NewWorld Capital Group, a firm that invests in environmental initiatives. Like Alicia, they had great jobs. But did they have great sex? Great sex with men who haven’t wronged them? That’s a fantasy I want to buy into. That’s why I kept watching “The Good Wife.”
艾丽西娅的原型是前纽约州长艾略特·斯皮策(Eliot Spitzer)的前妻西尔达·斯皮策(Silda Spitzer)。她代表了所有受委屈的政客配偶，其中当然包括希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)。她们公开受辱后，胡玛可以继续忙于在国务院的工作，希拉里后来成了参议员。斯皮策女士成了新世界投资集团(NewWorld Capital Group)的总裁，该集团投资环保方面的项目。像艾丽西娅一样，她们有很好的工作。但是她们的性生活美满吗？是否和没让她们受委屈的男人拥有美满的性生活？那是我想做的白日梦，也是我一直观看《傲骨贤妻》的原因。
When Matthew Crawley’s car crashed on “Downton Abbey,” I didn’t care. He and Lady Mary together were as dry as toast. When they killed off Nicholas Brody on “Homeland,” I was glad, because he and Carrie had zero chemistry. Besides, that show had jumped the shark. “The Good Wife” has never jumped the shark. Even killing Will didn’t jump the shark. It only dashed my dreams and broke my heart.
当《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)里的马修·克劳利(Matthew Crawley)在车祸中丧生时，我不在乎。他和玛丽小姐(Lady Mary)在一起像祝酒词一样无味。《国土安全》(Homeland)里的尼古拉斯·布洛迪(Nicholas Brody)被杀后，我很高兴，因为他和卡莉之间没有任何化学效应。再说，那部电视剧已经没有吸引力了。《傲骨贤妻》从未失去吸引力。甚至在威尔死后也没有失去吸引力。它只是粉碎了我的梦，伤透了我的心。