She sounds like the girl next door — young, friendly, eager. For Theodore Twombly (Joaquin Phoenix), the poetically melancholic hero in “Her,” Spike Jonze’s exquisite new movie, that voice (Scarlett Johansson) is a lifeline to the world, which he has loosened his hold on since separating from his wife. The voice brightly greets him in the morning and, with a sexy huskiness, bids him good night in the evening. The voice organizes his files, gets him out of the house and, unlike some multitasking females, doesn’t complain about juggling her many roles as his assistant, comfort, turn-on, helpmate and savior — which makes her an ideal companion even if she’s also just software.
她的声音听上去好像邻家女孩——年轻、友好，热情。在斯派克·琼斯(Spike Jonze)执导的精致新片《她》(Her)中，充满诗性忧郁的主人公西奥多·特沃姆布里（杰昆·菲尼克斯[Joaquin Phoenix]饰）自从与妻子分手后，与世界已经脱节，然而这个声音（斯嘉丽·约翰逊[Scarlett Johansson]）成了连接他与世界的生命线。这个声音在早上爽朗欢快地向他致意，晚上又用性感的沙哑声线向他道晚安。这个声音帮他整理文件，敦促他离开室内，而且，和许多处理多项任务的女性不同，这个声音不会抱怨自己要身兼数职——他的助理、安慰者、鼓励者、伴侣和救星——因此她实在是个理想的同伴，就算她只是个软件也没关系。
At once a brilliant conceptual gag and a deeply sincere romance, “Her” is the unlikely yet completely plausible love story about a man, who sometimes resembles a machine, and an operating system, who very much suggests a living woman. It’s set, somehow of course, in Los Angeles, that city of plastic fears and dreams, in an unspecified time in the future. The machines haven’t risen, as they have in dystopian tales like “The Terminator” series, but instead have been folded into everyday life. Theodore learns about the operating system from an advertisement and is soon running it on his home computer and phone. Before long, he and the software, which calls itself Samantha, are exchanging pleasantries, playing the roles of strangers fated to become lovers.
《她》既是一个精彩的概念玩笑，也是一段深刻真诚的罗曼史，它讲述一个男人与控制系统软件之间的爱情故事，男人有时候有点像一部机器，控制系统则令人联想起一个活生生的女人，它不太像是真实的，然而又似乎十分可信。故事背景设定在未来某个不确定时刻的洛杉矶（某种程度上这似乎是理所当然的），这座充满廉价恐惧与梦想的都市。机器们没有像《终结者》(The Terminator)系列之类的反乌托邦故事中那样举行起义，而是融入了日常生活。西奥多从广告中知道了这种操作系统，很快把它应用到自己的家庭电脑和手机上。不久后，他和这个自称“萨曼莎”的软件就开始互相说着客套话，上演一出陌生人注定成为恋人的故事。
It’s a perfect tale for Mr. Jonze, a fabulist whose sense of the absurd informs his more broadly comic endeavors (notably his work on the “Jackass” movies, including “Bad Grandpa”) and the straighter if still kinked art-house films he’s directed, like “Being John Malkovich” and “Adaptation.” If it has taken time for the depth of Mr. Jonze’s talents to be recognized, it’s partly because of all the attention bestowed on Charlie Kaufman’s scripts for “Adaptation” and “John Malkovich,” which announce their auteurist aspirations on the page. It’s perhaps unsurprising that Mr. Jonze’s third feature, “Where the Wild Things Are,” an emotionally delicate live-action adaptation of that Maurice Sendak book, was a visual knockout with a minimalist story and relatively little dialogue.
这个故事很适合琼斯这个寓言家，在他更宽泛的喜剧尝试中充满荒诞感，特别是包括《坏外公》(Bad Grandpa)在内的《蠢蛋搞怪秀》(Jackass)系列；而他的《成为约翰·马尔科维奇》(Being John Malkovich)和《改编剧本》(Adaptation)等较为冷峻，却依然扭曲的艺术片也同样如此。如果人们花了一些时间才发现琼斯深邃的天赋，或许部分原因是关注全都落在查理·考夫曼(Charlie Kaufman)为《改编剧本》和《成为约翰·马尔科维奇》撰写的剧本上面，两部剧本鲜明地宣告了导演主创论的意图。而琼斯的第三部长片《野兽家园》(Where the Wild Things Are)是一部感情纤细的动画片，改编自莫里斯·桑达克(Maurice Sendak)的书，故事极其简单，对话很少，但视觉上令人喜出望外。
Written by Mr. Jonze, “Her” features plenty of talk and comparably little action partly because it’s a neo-classic boy-meets-operating-system romance and only one of them has a body. This is a minor setback as far as the characters are concerned, although only Samantha frets about it. If this profound existential difference doesn’t worry Theodore, it’s because isolation is his default state. That’s both because of his own life-historical events, including his separation from his wife, Catherine (Rooney Mara), and because everyone around him seems more plugged in to their machines than to other people. He has one friend, Amy (Amy Adams), who lives nearby, and talks to only one colleague (Chris Pratt) in the office where he spends his days writing intimate letters for other people.
《她》的剧本由琼斯创作，充满对话，没什么动作戏，部分是因为影片是一部新古典主义的“男孩遇上操作系统”的浪漫故事，二者之间只有一个人拥有身体。这对两个角色来说，只是一个小困难，只有萨曼莎为此感到苦恼。西奥多似乎并不为这种这种严重的存在差异而忧虑，因为孤独本来是他的常态。这种状况一方面是由于他的人生经历，包括与妻子凯瑟琳（鲁尼·玛拉[Rooney Mara]饰演）分手；另一方面，他周围的人似乎更关心自己的事，并不关注他人。他有个住在附近的朋友，名叫艾米（艾米·亚当斯[Amy Adams]饰），他只和办公室的一个同事（克里斯·普拉特[Chris Pratt]饰演）聊天，整个白天他都要呆在办公室里代替别人书写亲密的信件。
In “Her,” everything is simultaneously familiar and unfamiliar, like all the voice- and gesture-activated software that Theodore uses at work and at play, as if his era had caught up to today’s prototypes. Mr. Jonze and his superb production designer, K. K. Barrett, haven’t reinvented the world, only modestly embellished ours, as with their reimagining of Los Angeles (a role played by that city and Shanghai, with digital assistance). The city still sprawls to near-infinity, but it’s now as vertical as Manhattan, and everyone travels by train, not car. The trains are a low-key, witty touch (and true science fiction), but they also let you see early on how lonely Theodore is even in a crowd.
在《她》中，一切既有似曾相识之感，又仿佛十分陌生，就像西奥多用来工作和游戏的所有声控和手势操控软件，仿佛他的时代是以如今的时代为原型。琼斯和他杰出的物品设计师K·K·巴莱特(K. K. Barrett)并没有重新创造那个世界，只是把我们的世界略加修改，就像他们对洛杉矶的再度想象一样（在这里，这个城市分别由洛杉矶和上海“饰演”，辅以一些数码制作）。片中这个城市仍然杂乱无章地伸展，仿佛无穷无尽，但有些像曼哈顿那样布满高楼大厦，所有人都乘城铁出行，而不是小轿车。城铁是一个低调、聪明的方式（也很科幻），但它们也让你早早看到，西奥多即便身在人群，也显得十分孤独。
Samantha saves him from solitude, drawing him out of himself and then into life itself. The role was initially voiced by the British actor Samantha Morton, who, after the movie was shot, was replaced by Ms. Johansson and whose casting feels inevitable. Her voice isn’t an especially melodious instrument, but it’s a surprisingly expressive one (as Woody Allen has figured out) that slides from squeaky girlishness to a smoky womanliness suggestive of late nights and whiskeys. It’s crucial that each time you hear Ms. Johansson in “Her,” you can’t help but flash on her lush physicality, too, which helps fill in Samantha and give this ghostlike presence a vibrant, palpable form, something that would have been trickier to pull off with a lesser-known performer.
萨曼莎把他从孤单中拯救出来，让他不再沉浸于自我，融入生活本身。这个声音起先是由英国演员萨曼莎·莫顿(Samantha Morton)配音，电影拍完后又换成了约翰松女士，她的出演令人感觉必不可少。她的声音并不特别悦耳动听，但却意外地富于表现力（伍迪·艾伦[Woody Allen]曾经指出这一点），她可以从叽叽喳喳的女孩口吻一下变成到女人味的烟熏嗓，暗示着深夜时光与威士忌。重要的是，每当你在《她》中听到约翰松的声音，你脑海中都会忍不住浮现出她那凹凸有致的身材，这有助于令萨曼莎的形象更加丰满，为这个幽灵般的存在赋予充满生气、可以感知的形态，要是由不那么出名的演员来诠释可能会更困难些。
“Her” is even harder to imagine without Mr. Phoenix, an actor who excels at exquisite isolation. Wearing a tidy mustache and horn-rimmed glasses that temper his good looks with a hint of Groucho Marx comedy, his Theodore — shoulders slumped and pants unflatteringly hitched up — presents a harmless, defeated picture. At his most memorable, Mr. Phoenix plays wounded, stunted souls whose agonies are expressed almost reluctantly in halting words and somatic contortions, as in his brutal performance in Paul Thomas Anderson’s “The Master.” His work in “Her” is quieter, more openly vulnerable than in “The Master,” yet, surprisingly, as powerful because, once again, it feels as if his character’s solitude had been drawn from some deep, unarticulated place in Mr. Phoenix’s own being.
如果没有格外擅长表现细微孤独感的菲尼克斯，《她》就会变得更加难以想象。他上唇留着小胡子，戴着角质框架的眼镜，为他英俊的相貌带来一丝格劳乔·马克斯(Groucho Marx)的喜剧色彩，他饰演的西奥多肩膀下垂，裤管难看地向上拉起，呈现出无辜的失败者形象。在菲尼克斯最经典的表演中，他饰演那些受伤畏怯的灵魂，用迟疑的语言与肉体的扭曲表现他们的痛苦，比如他在保罗·托马斯·安德森(Paul Thomas Anderson)的《大师》中残酷的表演。在《她》中，他比在《大师》中更安静，更容易受伤害，然而令人惊讶的是，他的表演同样有力，因为他再一次让人感到，角色的孤独来自他自身某个深邃的、难以用言语表达的地方。
There are times when “Her” has the quality of a private dispatch, like a secret Mr. Jonze is whispering in your ear. Part of the pleasure of the movie is its modest scale, its hushed beauty and the deliberate ordinariness of its story. In contrast to the hard shininess of so many science-fiction movies, “Her” looks muted, approachable and vividly tactile, from Theodore’s wide-open face to the diffused lighting and the ravishingly lovely sherbet palette splashed with mellow yellows, tranquil tangerines and coral pinks. This is a movie you want to reach out and caress, about a man who, like everyone else around him in this near future, has retreated from other people into a machine world. In “Her,” the great question isn’t whether machines can think, but whether human beings can still feel.
《她》中有些地方令人产生私密的亲近感，仿佛琼斯在你耳边倾诉一个秘密。这种乐趣部分来自于这部影片规模较小，有安静的美感，故事也刻意处理得平凡。从西奥多坦诚的面孔到片中的漫射光，再到片中美丽的果冻色调——柔黄、橘红和珊瑚粉，《她》看上去安静、可亲而又栩栩如生，特别是与众多强光笼罩的科幻大片相比。这是一部你可以去触碰和抚摸的电影，讲述不久的将来，一个和周围的人没什么两样的男人离开其他人，进入了一个机器世界。在《她》中，最大的问题不是机器能否思考，而是人类是否依然能够去感受。