BURBANK, Calif. — The gathering at Walt Disney Animation here was supposed to be a giddy celebration. There was no way anyone could deny the historic studio’s hard-fought creative rebirth: “Frozen,” its Nordic tale of two sisters and a wisecracking snowman, won two Oscars on Sunday, the same day it crossed $1 billion at the global box office.
加州伯班克——华特迪士尼动画制作公司(Walt Disney Animation)的这次聚会本应是一场纵情狂欢的庆功会。没人能否认这家历史悠久的动画公司在经过艰苦努力后，创作力东山再起：该公司制作的《冰雪奇缘》(Frozen)周日赢得了两项奥斯卡奖，同一天，全球票房还突破了10亿美元（约合人民币61亿元）。电影讲述了一对姐妹和一个插科打诨的雪人在北欧发生的故事。
Blue snow cones for everyone!
来吃蓝色刨冰甜筒吧，管够！
But the party Monday afternoon grew unexpectedly serious, as multiple Disney executives became overwhelmed recalling just how far the studio had come after a harrowing transition to computer-aided filmmaking.
但周一下午，当多名迪士尼高管回忆起向计算机辅助电影制作的痛苦转型时，不由得真情流露，聚会的气氛出人意料地变得严肃起来。
“There was talk of closing this place,” John Lasseter, chief creative officer for Pixar and Disney animation, said through tears to roughly 800 assembled artists. “And we said, ‘Not on our watch. We will never allow that to happen.' ”
面对着聚集在此的约800名动画师，皮克斯动画工作室(Pixar Animation Studios)和迪士尼动画的首席创意官约翰·拉塞特(John Lasseter)眼里闪着泪光，他说，“曾经有人说要关掉这里，我们说， ‘只要我们还在，它就不可能关门。’我们绝不会允许这种事情发生。”
Winning an Academy Award is a coup for any movie company, but the “Frozen” honors carry a lot of extra weight. Ever since the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences created the best animated movie prize in 2001, Pixar has dominated the category, winning seven times. Rivals including DreamWorks Animation have won every other year.
赢得奥斯卡奖对任何电影公司来说都是非凡成就，但《冰雪奇缘》的获奖则承载着更多意义。自从2001年美国电影艺术与科学学院(Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences)设立最佳动画长片奖以来，皮克斯就一直是该奖项上的霸主，曾七次获奖。每隔一年，这个奖项才会落到梦工厂动画电影公司(DreamWorks Animation)等竞争对手的头上。
Never winning was a humiliation for a lot of artists at Disney, the shop where the art of mainstream animation was essentially born and which produced classics like “Dumbo'’ and “The Lion King.'’
从未赢得奥斯卡奖让迪士尼许多动画师抬不起头来。这家公司堪称主流动画艺术的诞生地，曾制作过《小飞象》(Dumbo)和《狮子王》(The Lion King)等经典动画电影。
With “Frozen,” which also won a best song Oscar for the power ballad “Let It Go,” Walt Disney Animation can claim to be officially, absolutely and at long last back in the animation saddle. It also represents the payoff of a high-stakes bet that dates to the 2006 acquisition of Pixar.
片中高亢豪迈的插曲《随它吧》(Let It Go)获得了最佳原创歌曲奖。可以说，凭借《冰雪奇缘》，迪士尼动画在历尽千辛万苦之后终于正式地、无可置疑地夺回了动画之王的宝座。这次获奖还代表着一次高风险押注的回报，而这要追溯到2006年迪士尼对皮克斯的收购交易。
“Let it go,” said Mr. Lasseter, a co-founder of Pixar who was put in charge of a turnaround when Disney bought that animation studio in 2006 for $7.4 billion. “We’re never going back there.” Despite its long association with animation, Disney’s unit had in recent years suffered from a huge confidence problem. Having clung too long to its hand-drawn formula, it was adrift after a sharp shift in Hollywood and among audiences toward Pixar-style computer animation.
2006年，迪士尼斥资74亿美元收购了皮克斯动画电影公司，当时，作为皮克斯的联合创始人，拉塞特被委以扭转公司局面的重任。他说，“放下过去吧。我们不会再走老路。”尽管拥有制作动画电影的悠久历史，迪士尼动画最近几年遭遇了严重的自信危机。由于长期以来一直坚持手绘动画的模式，在好莱坞和观众的兴趣转向皮克斯式的电脑动画之后，迪士尼动画一下子失去了方向。
There were worries at Disney that even young moviegoers had become too cynical for the company’s brand of fairy-tale musicals. A parade of new films, including “Meet the Robinsons,” “Home on the Range” and “Chicken Little,” failed to impress.
迪士尼公司的一些人担心，即使是年轻的电影观众也开始不喜欢该公司的童话音乐剧品牌了。《未来小子》(Meet the Robinsons)、《牧场是我家》(Home on the Range)、四眼天鸡(Chicken Little)等一批新电影都反响平平。
Anxiety inside the animation studio increased with the arrival of mighty Pixar as a corporate sibling. “There was a little fear, there was a little touch of envy,” said Andrew Millstein, general manager of Walt Disney Animation, recalling the grim vibe that prevailed.
随着不可一世的皮克斯的加入，迪士尼动画的焦虑进一步加深。迪士尼动画的总经理安德鲁·米尔斯坦(Andrew Millstein)回忆了当时笼罩在全公司的阴郁气氛，他说，“有一点害怕，还有一点嫉妒。”
Maybe Walt Disney Animation was too broken to fix?
或许迪士尼动画真的已经无药可救了？
Instead of pulling the plug, Robert A. Iger, who orchestrated the Pixar acquisition after he took over as Disney’s chief executive in 2005, asked Mr. Lasseter and Ed Catmull, the president of Pixar and now the separately managed Walt Disney Animation, if they would try to reboot the historic studio. The two men, in concert with Mr. Millstein and Alan Bergman, president of Disney’s broader movie operation, started by ordering up a full restart of a gestating film that became “Bolt.” It took in a relatively modest $310 million at the domestic box office in 2008.
2005年接任迪士尼首席执行官一职并策划了皮克斯收购案的罗伯特·A·伊格(Robert A. Iger)没有放弃，而是请了拉塞特和皮克斯总裁埃德·凯特摩尔(Ed Catmull)来看看能否试着重振这家历史悠久的动画片厂。凯特摩尔目前是独立运营的迪士尼动画的总裁。这两个人，加上米尔斯坦和迪士尼整个电影部门的总裁艾伦·伯格曼(Alan Bergman)一起，首先决定全面重启一部尚在酝酿的影片的制作，也就是后来的《闪电狗》(Bolt)。这部影片在2008年取得了比较平淡的3.1亿美元的国内票房。
Then came “The Princess and the Frog,” a musical without many memorable tunes that was a box-office disappointment, with $267 million in ticket sales. (The well-reviewed movie did, importantly, give Disney its first black princess.) But the 2010 release of “Tangled” finally started to reveal some real creative spark; the operational changes that Mr. Lasseter and Mr. Catmull put into place were working.
接下来是《公主与青蛙》(The Princess and the Frog)。这部音乐动画片缺乏脍炙人口的歌曲，票房停留在了令人失望的2.67亿美元。（不过，它颇具口碑，而且重要的是，让迪士尼拥有了第一位黑人公主。）到了2010上映的《魔发奇缘》(Tangled)，终于展现出了某种真正的创意火花；拉塞特与凯特摩尔在经营方面作出的改变奏效了。
An expensive retelling of the “Rapunzel” story, “Tangled” took in $592 million.
《魔发奇缘》耗费巨资重新讲述了格林童话中的《长发姑娘》(Rapunzel)的故事，最终入账5.92亿美元。
Last year, “Wreck-It Ralph,” which took in $471 million, became a serious Oscar contender, narrowly losing to Pixar’s “Brave.” Disneyphiles started referring to the turnaround work of Mr. Lasseter and Mr. Catmull as a “second renaissance,” a reference to a pre-Pixar fertile period in the 1990s when Walt Disney Animation delivered megahit musicals like “Beauty and the Beast” and “The Lion King.”
去年，《无敌破坏王》(Wreck-It Ralph)拿下了4.71亿美元的票房，并成为奥斯卡奖的有力竞争者，但最终惜败于皮克斯的《勇敢传说》(Brave)。迪士尼的粉丝开始将拉塞特和凯特摩尔领导的变革称为“第二次复兴”。而上次“复兴”，指的是上世纪90年代，皮克斯尚未崛起之前，迪士尼动画推出了《美女与野兽》(Beauty and the Beast)和《狮子王》等音乐动画鸿篇巨制的高产期。
But the retooled Walt Disney Animation still lacked a true smash hit, a film that not only ignites a box-office inferno but becomes a cultural phenomenon.
然而，重组后的迪士尼动画还是欠缺真正意义上的票房炸弹，一部不仅能点燃票房，还能成为文化现象的大片。
Then came “Frozen.” Directed by Chris Buck and Jennifer Lee and produced by Peter Del Vecho, the film in particular captivated little girls, thousands of whom started posting videos of themselves on YouTube lip syncing “Let It Go.” The soundtrack, with original music written by Bobby Lopez and Kristen Anderson-Lopez, spent five weeks as No. 1 on the Billboard album chart, beating a new release from Beyoncé. It was a long winter, Mr. Catmull told the assembled Disney animation staff at the celebration on Monday. “We knew that you had it in you,” he said, his voice cracking. “I don’t know that everybody else knew.”
于是诞生了《冰雪奇缘》。这部由克里斯·巴克(Chris Buck)与珍妮弗·李(Jennifer Lee)共同执导、彼得·德尔·维科(Peter Del Vecho)制作的影片尤其让小女孩为之痴狂。YouTube上有成千上万的女孩翻唱《随它吧》的视频。片中的原创音乐出自鲍比·洛佩兹(Bobby Lopez)和克里斯汀·安德森-洛佩兹(Kristen Anderson-Lopez)之手。电影原声在《公告牌》专辑榜上占据了四周的榜首位置，打败了碧昂斯(Beyoncé)推出的新唱片。在周一庆功会上，凯特摩尔在迪士尼动画的员工面前感叹一个漫长的严冬过去了。“我们早就知道，你们能行，”他的声音哽咽了。“但我不能确定，别的人是不是也知道。”
The gathering did eventually became a full-fledged hoedown. Animators rowdily posed with the Oscar statuettes, and two voice actors from “Frozen,'” Josh Gad and Jonathan Groff, were on hand to give bear hugs to Mr. Lasseter, who snapped photos with his iPhone. Along with the champagne and snow cones, the studio served a buffet of blue candy and Blue Moon beer. An in-house band, the Steamboat Strummers, played a ukulele version of “Let It Go.” (Mr. Iger had to miss the celebration because he was en route to Shanghai, but Mr. Millstein assured the group that he had “beamed like a Cheshire cat” when “Frozen” won.)
庆功会最终变成了一场手舞足蹈的狂欢。动画师们闹哄哄地与金像合影，《冰雪奇缘》的两名配音演员乔什·盖德(Josh Gad)和乔纳森·格罗夫(Jonathan Groff)在现场熊抱了拉塞特，被他用iPhone抓拍了下来。除了香槟和刨冰甜筒，迪士尼动画还敞开供应了蓝色糖果和蓝月啤酒(Blue Moon)。请来的乐队Steamboat Strummers演绎了尤克莱利琴版本的《随它吧》。（伊格错过了庆功会，因为他正在去上海的路上，不过米尔斯坦向人群保证，《冰雪奇缘》赢下大奖后，伊格“笑得跟只柴郡猫一样”。）
Still, the festivities never veered too far from deep appreciation for the attention Mr. Lasseter and Mr. Catmull have lavished on the studio. Ms. Lee, who based her “Frozen” screenplay on Hans Christian Andersen’s “Snow Queen,” summed up her feelings on the matter by quoting from a “Frozen” song.
然而各种庆祝之举始终围绕着对拉塞特和凯特摩尔的感激，感谢他们对迪士尼动画倾注的心血。珍妮弗·李撰写的《冰雪奇缘》剧本改编自安徒生童话《冰雪女王》(Snow Queen)。她用片子里的一首歌总结了自己在这件事上的感想。
“People make bad choices if they’re mad, or scared or stressed,” she recited. “Throw a little love their way, and you’ll bring out their best.”
“人们在疯狂、恐惧或压力之下会做出糟糕的选择，”她说。“给他们一点爱，就会激发出他们最好的一面。”