Mark Burnett, the reality-show auteur whose “Apprentice” series catapulted Donald Trump to national stardom, issued a forceful denunciation of Trump’s presidential bid on Wednesday evening, saying he rejected “the hatred, division and misogyny that has been a very unfortunate part of his campaign.”
真人秀制作人马克·伯内特(Mark Burnett)的《学徒》(The Apprentice)系列节目让唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)名扬全美。周三傍晚，伯内特发表声明，强烈谴责特朗普竞选总统，称自己反对“仇恨、分化和歧视女性，然而这些已经成为他的竞选中极其可悲的一部分”。
The statement capped an unusually challenging few days for Burnett, one of television’s most powerful figures, who has faced growing demands that he release footage from the “Apprentice” set that some former crew members say could reveal Trump acting in vulgar and offensive ways.
在发表声明前的几天里，作为电视圈最有影响力的人之一，伯内特面临着不同寻常的挑战。越来越多的人要求他公布《学徒》拍摄现场的镜头。一些前剧组人员表示，那些镜头能揭露特朗普粗俗、无礼的行为。
Burnett, who has not commented on whether such footage exists, says that he does not have the legal right to release “Apprentice” tapes; Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, the global entertainment conglomerate that now owns Burnett’s production company and its archive, says the same.
尚未对是否存在这样的镜头置评的伯内特自称没有公布《学徒》录像带的合法权利。伯内特的制作公司及其档案资料现在所属的跨国娱乐企业集团米高梅(Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer)也做出了同样的表述。
But during a cascade of accusations of boorish, even violent behavior toward women by Trump, the clamor for “Apprentice” footage has become a spectacle worthy of one of Burnett’s own creations — complete with cameos from made-for-TV personalities like the lawyer Gloria Allred, who led a protest against MGM this week, and a distinctly Hollywood mixture of political intrigue and corporate self-preservation.
特朗普对女性粗鲁乃至暴力的行为引来了铺天盖地的指责。在此期间，民众呼吁公布《学徒》素材的热闹程度，堪比伯内特自己的作品——其中既有律师格洛丽亚·奥尔雷德(Gloria Allred)这样的电视名人的客串出演——她在本周发起了一场反对米高梅公司的抗议活动，还有政治阴谋结合企业自保的典型好莱坞情节。
Burnett’s statement was issued on the same night that several women came forward to say they had been groped or assaulted by Trump. Their accounts followed a video released last week from 2005, featuring Trump and the then-host of “Access Hollywood,” Billy Bush engaging in vulgar and misogynistic talk about women.
伯内特发表声明的当晚，多名女性站出来，称特朗普曾对她们动手动脚或进行过骚扰。在她们发声之前，上周公布的一段2005年的视频记录了特朗普和当时的《走进好莱坞》(Access Hollywood)主持人比利·布什(Billy Bush)用粗俗和充满歧视的语言谈论女性的情景。
A person familiar with Trump’s “Apprentice” contract, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe confidential terms, said that MGM would have to obtain Trump’s permission before releasing unaired footage of him from the show, part of a clause granting Trump control over the use of his name and likeness.
一名了解特朗普与《学徒》节目之间的协议的人士表示，米高梅须获得特朗普的许可才能公布他在节目中的未播出镜头，这是其中一项条款的一部分。该条款让特朗普能够控制其姓名和形象的用途。这名人士要求匿名讨论保密条款。
Such clauses are not unusual in reality television, and MGM said Wednesday that it intended to honor its agreements with personnel involved in “The Apprentice.”
在真人秀电视节目中，这类条款很常见。米高梅周三表示打算履行与《学徒》节目涉及的人员签订的协议。
Entertainment lawyers interviewed this week wondered if Trump would have much of a legal case if footage were to be released. The “name and likeness” clause is typically invoked if a celebrity’s image is used for profit — not as documentary evidence in a presidential campaign.
本周接受采访的娱乐律师怀疑，如果要公布相关镜头，特朗普不见得有充分的法律依据去阻止。违背“姓名和形象”条款的情况往往是将名人的形象用于盈利，而不是用作总统竞选中的纪实性证据。
In a sign that Burnett was wary of the effect on his public image — particularly in his left-leaning entertainment milieu — his statement on Wednesday began with an emphatic phrase: “I am NOT pro-Trump.”
在周三的声明中，伯内特开门见山地强调：“我不支持特朗普。”这一迹象表明，伯内特担心自己的公众形象受影响，尤其是他所在的娱乐圈是倾向于左派的。
Burnett, who has donated previously to Democratic candidates, is a publicity-shy Englishman who, until now, has been reluctant to discuss Trump’s political rise.
伯内特以前捐助过民主党候选人。出生于英国的他不愿受到媒体的关注，此前一直不愿讨论特朗普在政界的崛起。