LOS ANGELES — The China woes are not over yet for Michael Bay’s latest “Transformers” film, “Age of Extinction.”
洛杉矶——迈克尔·贝(Michael Bay)的最新一部“变形金刚”电影《绝迹重生》(Age of Extinction)在中国的麻烦事还没有结束。
A week before its expected release in the China, and almost everywhere else, the film was hit with a demand for the removal of any scenes depicting the logo or properties of the Beijing Pangu Investment Company, which was a commercial sponsor of the movie.
在距离中国乃至全世界几乎所有地方的上映还有一周之际，影片突遭打击，其商业赞助人北京盘古氏投资有限公司要求删去影片中所有出现公司标志或物业的片段。
The Pangu company issued a statement on Wednesday accusing Paramount Pictures, the studio behind the film, and others of failing to perform contractual obligations, and said it had filed court charges related to its allegations. The statement said that any images of its logos or buildings should be removed from the movie and its marketing materials.
盘古氏公司在周三发布了一份声明，指责影片制作公司派拉蒙影业(Paramount Pictures)等公司没能履行合约义务，并已经向法院提起相关诉讼。声明中表示，影片以及宣传材料中所有出现了公司标志或建筑物的画面都应删除。
In a statement released on Friday, a Paramount spokesman said the studio was addressing the complaint, and acknowledged that a Pangu property appears in the film, the fourth in the “Transformers” series.
在周五发布的一份声明中，派拉蒙公司的一名发言人说公司正在处理这起纠纷，并承认此次制作的“变形金刚”系列第四部影片中的确出现了盘古氏的一处物业。
“Pangu Plaza has a prominent placement in ‘Transformers 4’ and it looks beautiful on-screen,” the statement said, referring to Pangu’s distinctive, dragon-shaped building in Beijing. “We regret that Pangu is not currently satisfied with certain aspects of our collaboration and are working to resolve its concerns,” the statement added.
“盘古大观在《变形金刚4》中有显著植入，在画面中的效果也非常漂亮，”声明说，此处指的是盘古那座独特的龙形建筑。“盘古目前对我们合作中的某些方面感到不满，我们对此表示遗憾，并在设法解决问题，”声明进一步说。
On Thursday, the Xinhua Beijing news service said that one of Pangu’s complaints involved an unfulfilled promise that the film’s world premiere would be held at one of its hotels. Mr. Bay and his film’s star, Mark Wahlberg, attended a premiere at a cultural center in Hong Kong this week.
新华社在周四的报道中说，盘古氏的一个不满之处是对方没能履行承诺，将影片的全球首映式放在其旗下的一家酒店举行。贝和影片主演马克·沃尔伯格(Mark Wahlberg)本周前往香港的一座文化中心参加了首映式。
Even so, plans to release “Transformers: Age of Extinction” in China appeared to be on track as of Friday. Pangu’s statement did not contain any complaints against the China Film Group, a company that is distributing “Transformers: Age of Extinction” in Chinese theaters.
不过，《变形金刚：绝迹重生》在中国的上映计划，截至周五似乎还没有什么改变。盘古氏并没有在声明中表达对中影集团的任何不满，这家公司是影片在中国的院线发行商。
“Transformers: Dark of the Moon,” released in 2011, took in about $178 million at the Chinese box office. In all, that film, the third in the series, had $1.1 billion in ticket sales around the world, about $352 million of which came from North America.
2011年上映的《变形金刚：月黑之时》(Transformers: Dark of the Moon)在中国取得了1.78亿美元（约合11亿元人民币）的票房收入。作为该系列的第三部影片，《月黑之时》的全球票房为11亿美元，其中3.52亿来自北美。
Though the makers of “Transformers: Age of Extinction” have showcased it as a model of United States-China cooperation in movie production, the movie has already had its share of problems in the East.
尽管制片方将《变形金刚：绝迹重生》当作了美中电影合作的一个模范来展示，但影片在东方还是遭遇了问题。
While shooting in Hong Kong last year, Mr. Bay was attacked with an air-conditioning unit — though not seriously injured — by men who were demanding money from the production company. Shortly afterward, local police investigated a second extortion effort against the film.
去年在香港拍摄时，迈克尔·贝被几个要求制片公司给钱的男子用空调机袭击——不过没有大碍。在那之后不久，当地警方又调查了另一起针对影片的敲诈勒索案件。