In its frantic, Looney Tunes-style madness, “Despicable Me 2” brings to mind a cautionary children’s story about an aspiring baker who learns the hard way that doubling the recipe for bread doesn’t mean doubling the baking time. It tries so hard to double your pleasure that it emerges from the test kitchen slightly burned. Like the jams and jellies that its reformed main character, Gru, makes in his new line of work, the film combines too many flavors, along with extra sugar. Once again, the lesson that more is not necessarily better, something rarely learned by blockbuster sequels, is forgotten.
《卑鄙的我2》(Despicable Me 2)以它那狂热的、兔八哥式的疯狂让你想起一个儿童教育故事：一个野心勃勃的面包师好不容易才明白，烤面包时用料加倍并不意味着烘焙时间也要加倍。这部影片也同样辛辛苦苦，想加倍取悦你，因此是从一个微微有些烧焦了的试验厨房开始的。主角格鲁(Gru)在这部续作中脱胎换骨，影片正如他在新工作里制作的果冻果酱一样，在超级甜蜜的基调上结合了太多种风味。然而超级流行的系列片很少能记取“过犹不及”这个教训，在这部新片里也再次被遗忘了。
That said, the new movie — concocted by the same hands (the directors Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud and the screenwriters Ken Daurio and Cinco Paul) who were behind the first “Despicable Me” — is consistently diverting and so cute you’ll want to pet it. Yet it is also weightless and lacks a center. Which isn’t to deny its inventiveness in imagining zany, whiz-bang gadgetry and its considerable achievement in the creation of a puffed-up Latin American villain who steals the spotlight from Gru (the voice of Steve Carell), the first film’s beaky, Shrek-like central character.
新片还由原班人马打造，仍然是由《卑鄙的我》的皮埃尔·柯芬(Pierre Coffin)和克里斯·雷纳德(Chris Renaud)导演，肯·达里奥(Ken Daurio)与辛科·保罗(Cinco Paul)编剧。它仍是那样有趣可爱，让你忍不住喜欢上它，不过也还是那么轻飘飘的没有分量，没有中心可言。但不能否认影片富于创意，有着充满想象力的滑稽和各种出色的小玩意儿。此外，还有个了不起的成就，那就是创造了一个目空一切的拉美裔恶棍；第一部影片中长着尖鼻子、有点像怪物史莱克的主角格鲁（史蒂夫·卡瑞尔[SteveCarell]配音）都被这个新角色抢去了风头。
Gru has come a long way since he aspired to be the world’s worst bad guy in the original movie. His cold heart has thawed since his adoption of three little girls. Despite his funny multinational accent, the reformed Gru is something of a bore.
格鲁在第一部影片中渴望成为世界上最坏的恶棍，此后他走过了漫长的路程。自从收养了三个小女孩，他那颗冷酷的心就被融化了。尽管说话时操着滑稽的各国口音，但改头换面后的格鲁很乏味。
The domestication of this once-fearsome grouch continues in “Despicable Me 2.” Gru, with his hearing-impaired mad scientist partner, Dr. Nefario (Russell Brand), has started a jam-and-jelly business whose tasteless products nobody wants. Just as his operation is about to fail, Gru is hired by the Anti-Villain League to locate a world-class baddie who uses a flying magnet to steal a secret research lab in the Arctic Circle. The lab has perfected a serum that causes grotesque mutations. Gru and his sidekick, the practical, no-nonsense Lucy (Kristen Wiig), pose as store owners in a shopping mall where the stolen serum is thought be hidden.
在《卑鄙的我2》中，这个一度很可怕的坏脾气家伙继续过着居家生活。格鲁和他听力受损的疯狂科学家伙伴纳法利欧博士（Dr. Nefario，拉塞尔·布兰德[Russell Brand]配音）一起开始做果冻果酱生意，不过他们的产品淡而无味，没人要买。就在生意濒临破产之际，格鲁被一个反恶棍联盟聘请，追踪一个世界级的坏蛋，此人用一块飞行磁石偷走了北极圈内一个秘密实验室里的成果。这个实验室制作的改良血清，可以造出奇怪的生物变种。格鲁和他的助手，为人务实、从不废话的露西（Lucy，克里斯汀·韦格[Kristen Wiig]配音）到一个购物中心假扮成小店店主，被盗的血清就藏匿在那个购物中心里。
A prime suspect is Eduardo (Benjamin Bratt), the gregarious, preening owner of the mall’s Mexican restaurant, Salsa & Salsa. He bears a suspicious resemblance to El Macho, a legendary outlaw who supposedly died while riding a shark into an active volcano with explosives strapped on his back. Sure enough, they are one and the same. Eduardo’s son, Antonio (Moises Arias), who struts around like a shifty-eyed teenage Valentino, takes an instant shine to Gru’s eldest daughter, Margo (Miranda Cosgrove), who swoons at the first sight of him.
他们的主要怀疑对象是爱德华多（Eduardo，本杰明·布拉特[Benjamin Bratt]配音），他喜欢交际，酷爱打扮，是购物中心里名叫“索萨与索萨”的墨西哥小餐馆的主人。他很像传奇大盗艾尔·马肖(El Macho)，此人据说已经身背炸药，骑着鲨鱼游进活火山死掉了。没错，他们就是同一个人。爱德华多的儿子安东尼奥（Antonio，莫伊塞斯·阿里亚斯[Moises Arias]配音）招摇过市，像个明眸善睐的少年大众情人，马上赢得了格鲁的大女儿玛戈（Margo，米兰达·卡斯格拉夫[Miranda Cosgrove]配音）的心，她对他一见钟情。
An early sign that Gru has a formidable foe is the capture by magnet of his legion of cute, obedient yellow Minions, whom the serum transforms into an enemy force of furry purple warriors. But like Margo’s ill-fated crush, the premise is rushed; an antidote to the serum is concocted almost as soon as the mass abduction takes place.
格鲁忠诚可爱的小黄人(Minions)军团被磁石抓住了，这早早表明格鲁的对手是个强敌。小黄人们被血清改造成敌对力量，变成了毛发浓密的紫色战士。但就像玛戈注定要失败的迷恋一样，这个设定也很快得到了解决；血清的解药几乎在大规模绑架发生的同时就造好了。
Meanwhile, Gru’s youngest daughter, Agnes (Elsie Fisher), dreams that Lucy might become her new mother. This fantasy is the ickier side of a movie that crosses the line from sweet to saccharine. It is not a good sign for the future of this franchise that “Despicable Me 2” might as well be waving a sign that pleads, “Love me, love me, love me!”
格鲁的小女儿阿格尼斯（Agnes，埃尔希·费舍[Elsie Fisher]配音）梦想露西可以成为她的新妈妈。这个幻想是影片中比较令人厌烦的部分，把甜蜜变成了甜腻。《卑鄙的我2》仿佛挥舞着标语，连声哀求“爱我吧，爱我吧，爱我吧！”对于这部系列大片来说可不是什么好迹象。