A press representative for the director Michael Bay said on Thursday morning that the filmmaker was “fine” and “not hurt” after he was attacked in Hong Kong, where he is making “Transformers 4.”
周四上午，导演迈克尔·贝(Michael Bay)的媒体发言人说，这位电影导演“情况良好”，“没有受伤”。此前，迈克尔·贝在香港拍摄《变形金刚4》(Transformers 4)时受到了袭击。
The press representative said later on Thursday that it was “erroneous” to say that Mr. Bay was injured in the attack, as some reports said, and that in fact the director had fended off a man “who was wielding an air-conditioning unit as a weapon.”
周四晚些时候，这名媒体发言人又说，一些媒体称迈克尔·贝在袭击中受伤的说法“有误”，实际上，他击退了一名“拿一台空调当武器的”男子。
Reuters reported that two Hong Kong men were arrested Thursday after approaching Mr. Bay at the “Transformers 4” set and demanding money. The men, who were said to be brothers and demanding about $13,000, attacked Mr. Bay; the older brother also was said to have attacked three police officers who tried to intervene. Both men were charged with suspicion of assault; the younger one was also charged with suspicion of blackmail.
据路透社(Reuters)报道，两名香港男子因来到《变形金刚4》片场向迈克尔·贝索要钱财而于周四被捕。这两名男子据说是兄弟，他们索要约合1.3万美元（10万港元，约合7.9万元人民币）的钱财，并攻击了迈克尔·贝；据称，两名男子中的哥哥还袭击了三名试图干预的警察。两人都因涉嫌人身攻击而受到指控；弟弟还因涉嫌勒索而被指控。
Reuters said that Mr. Bay had been injured on the right side of his face but that the injuries were not serious, and that filming had resumed after the episode. BBC News, citing local Hong Kong reports, said that the men may have been seeking “disturbance fees” paid to shops and businesses whose commerce was affected by the “Transformers 4” production.
路透社称，迈克尔·贝右脸受伤，但伤情并不严重，拍摄工作也在事情结束后继续进行。BBC新闻频道(BBC News)引用香港当地报道称，这两名男子可能是想收取“扰民费”，用来补偿那些生意受到《变形金刚4》拍摄工作影响的商店和公司。
In a statement on Thursday, Gabriela Gutentag, a press representative for Mr. Bay, provided a somewhat different account. Her statement said:
迈克尔·贝的媒体发言人加布里埃拉·古滕塔克(Gabriela Gutentag)在周四声明中的讲述与此不同。她说：
“Director Michael Bay and the cast and crew of ‘Transformers: Age of Extinction’ completed their first day of production in Hong Kong today, Oct. 17, 2013, after four and a half months of filming in Arizona, Utah, Texas, Michigan, Illinois and Washington State since late May.
“今天，2013年10月17日，导演迈克尔·贝以及《变形金刚：毁灭纪元》的演员和剧组成员完成了在香港的第一天拍摄。从5月末开始，该剧已经在亚利桑那州、犹他州、德克萨斯州、密歇根州、伊利诺伊州和华盛顿州进行了为期4个半月的拍摄。”
“Contrary to several erroneous news reports made today, Bay did not get hurt in a fight on set. The production company did have a bizarre encounter with a man (allegedly under the influence of a narcotic substance) who was wielding an air-conditioning unit as a weapon. The man, who had earlier accosted several other crew members, rushed onto the set in Quarry Bay and swung the air-conditioning unit directly at Bay’s head. The director ducked and wrested the air-conditioner from his attacker, preventing what could have been a serious accident. The company’s security team quickly stepped in and subdued the assault. The police, who also scuffled with the assailant and two of his companions, ultimately arrested the three men. No one on the cast or crew was injured and the production immediately resumed filming without further incident.”
“和今天的几则错误报道相反，贝没有在片场的打斗中受伤。制片公司确实遇上了奇怪的事情，一名男子（可能受到了迷幻药的影响）拿一台空调当武器。这名男子早前曾尾随其他几名剧组成员，后来则冲进鲗鱼涌的片场，直接把空调抡向贝的头部。导演躲开了，并从袭击者手中夺下空调，阻止了一场本来可能相当严重的事故。制片公司的安保团队迅速进入片场，制服了袭击者。警察和袭击者及其两名同伙扭打，最终逮捕了三人。全体演员及摄制组成员都没有受伤，摄制组当即恢复拍摄，没有发生进一步的事故。”
Describing the episode in a post on his Web site, michaelbay.com, Mr. Bay wrote that his assailant “was like a Zombie in Brad Pitt’s movie ‘World War Z’ — he lifted seven guys up and tried to bite them.”
贝在他的网站michaelbay.com上发帖描述了这次事件，其中写道，他的袭击者“就像是布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)出演的电影《僵尸世界大战》(World War Z)中的僵尸——他举起了七个人，还试图咬他们。”
“He actually bit into one of the guard’s Nike shoe, insane,” Mr. Bay continued. “Thank God it was an Air Max, the bubble popped, but the toe was saved.”
他继续写道，“他实实在在地咬到了一名保卫人员的耐克(Nike)鞋，真是疯了。感谢上帝，那是一只气垫跑鞋，气垫虽然破了，脚趾却得救了。”
“After that,” Mr. Bay wrote, “we had a great day shooting here in Hong Kong.”
贝写道，“这之后，我们在香港度过了一个很棒的拍摄日。”
In an interview with The New York Times in April, Mr. Bay said he was a recognizable figure when he travels the world.
今年4月接受《纽约时报》采访时，贝曾经表示，当他在全球各地奔走时，人们总能认出他。
“I was just in the Forbidden City, and people were taking pictures of me,” he said. “People know who you are.”
他说，“我就在故宫里，人们纷纷给我拍照。他们都知道我是谁。”