LONDON — In a recent episode of Showtime’s hit series “Homeland,” the former C.I.A. officer Carrie Mathison is escorted by a Hezbollah militant past a wall in a fictional Syrian refugee camp covered with Arabic graffiti.
伦敦——在Showtime热播剧《国土安全》(Homeland)的最新一集中，前中情局(CIA)特工凯莉·马西森(Carrie Mathison)在一名真主党(Hezbollah)武装分子的护送下，走过了虚构的叙利亚难民营的一道围墙，墙上有一些阿拉伯文的涂鸦。
Attentive viewers who read Arabic, however, might have noticed something awry. Among the messages spray-painted on the walls: “ ‘Homeland’ is racist,” “There is no ‘Homeland’ ” and “ ‘Homeland’ is not a show.”
但是，懂阿拉伯语的细心观众可能注意到了一些古怪。因为喷涂在墙上的句子是：“《国土安全》是种族主义节目”、“没有‘国土安全’这回事”、“《国土安全》不像样”。
The subversive messages seemingly escaped the notice of the producers of the television series.
这些颠覆性的句子似乎逃过了这部剧集创作者的眼睛。
On Wednesday, an Egyptian artist, Heba Y. Amin, and two other artists, Caram Kapp and Stone, took credit for the graffiti, saying it was a subtle protest of false and misleading stereotypes in the series, which has been heavily criticized for its portrayals of Muslims.
周三，埃及艺术家何贝·Y·阿明(Heba Y. Amin)，和其他两位艺术家卡兰姆·卡普(Caram Kapp)和斯通(Stone)自称是这些涂鸦的创作者。他们表示，此举是对这部剧集中传达的那些虚假的、有误导性的刻板印象的微妙抗议。该剧对穆斯林的刻画已经遭到一些人的严厉批评。
Ms. Amin said she and her colleagues had been hired by the show’s producers to add authenticity to the camp depicted in the episode — Season 5, Episode 2 — aired in the United States on Sunday and filmed on the outskirts of Berlin.
阿明说，她和同事受雇于该节目的制作方，为第5季第2集中虚构的难民营增添真实感。该集拍摄于柏林的郊区，上周日在美国播出。
The three, who call themselves Arabian Street Artists, said they had used the opportunity to vent their “political discontent” with the show.
三个人自称是“阿拉伯街头艺术家”(Arabian Street Artists)，他们表示，自己利用了这个机会来发泄对该剧集的“政治不满”。
“The series has garnered the reputation of being the most bigoted show on television for its inaccurate, undifferentiated and highly biased depiction of Arabs, Pakistanis and Afghans, as well as its gross misrepresentations of the cities of Beirut, Islamabad — and the so-called Muslim world in general,” the artists said in their statement on Ms. Amin’s website, asserting that they had “hacked” the series. “For four seasons, and entering its fifth, ‘Homeland’ has maintained the dichotomy of the photogenic, mainly white, mostly American protector versus the evil and backwards Muslim threat.”
“这部剧集得到了‘偏见最多电视剧’的名声，因为它对阿拉伯人、巴基斯坦人和阿富汗人的描绘不准确、不加区别，且存在极大的偏见，严重歪曲了贝鲁特、伊斯兰堡等城市，乃至整个所谓的穆斯林世界，”这些艺术家在阿明网站上发布的一份声明中表示。他们称自己对该剧采取了“黑客攻击”。“在前四季和第五季开播以来，《国土安全》坚持截然两分的人物设定：一方是上镜的、以白人和美国人为主的捍卫者，另一方是邪恶、落后的穆斯林的威胁。”
Alex Gansa, co-creator of “Homeland,” acknowledged the ruse. “We wish we’d caught these images before they made it to air,” he said in a statement. “However, as ‘Homeland’ always strives to be subversive in its own right and a stimulus for conversation, we can’t help but admire this act of artistic sabotage.”
《国土安全》的主创之一亚历克斯·冈萨(Alex Gansa)承认被捉弄了。“要是在播出之前发现这些画面就好了，”他在一份声明中说。“不过，《国土安全》始终致力于成为一部颠覆性的剧集，引发大家的交谈，因此我们也不禁佩服这种艺术性的破坏行为。”
Claire Danes has won two Emmys and two Golden Globe awards for her portrayal of Ms. Mathison, an intelligence officer who struggles with bipolar disorder. But the series itself has been consistently criticized for inaccurate and inconsistent portrayals.
马西森是一位患有躁郁症的特工，克莱尔·戴恩斯(Claire Danes)因扮演这个角色荣获了两项艾美奖和两项金球奖。但一直有人批评这部剧集本身的描绘不准确、前后不一致。
The three artists criticized the first season for suggesting that Al Qaeda was an “Iranian venture” that had sought revenge against the United States on behalf of Iran. Al Qaeda is a Sunni Muslim extremist network, which Shiite Iran and its Lebanese proxy, Hezbollah, have in recent years treated as, in some ways, a more imminent danger than Israel.
这三位艺术家批评，该剧集的第一季曾暗示基地组织(Al Qaeda)是“伊朗策划的”，试图代表伊朗报复美国。基地组织是一个逊尼派穆斯林极端主义组织，而最近几年，从某种角度而言，属于什叶派的伊朗，以及伊朗在黎巴嫩的代理人真主党，把基地组织看成是比以色列更加迫切的威胁。
In October 2012, Lebanon’s tourism minister at the time, Fadi Abboud, threatened to sue the makers of the series for their depiction of Beirut, the Lebanese capital. The program’s portrayal showed a group of terrorists meeting on Hamra Street, which was depicted as a center for militia violence; in real life, the street is a cosmopolitan road with a Starbucks, outdoor cafes and women in outfits ranging from skimpy to fully veiled. Mr. Abboud was particularly angry that the episode had been filmed in Israel, which is officially at war with Lebanon.
2012年10月，黎巴嫩时任旅游部长法迪·阿布德(Fadi Abboud)威胁要起诉该剧的创作人员，原因就是他们对黎巴嫩首都贝鲁特的描绘。在该剧中，一群恐怖分子在哈姆拉街(Hamra Street)碰头，那条街道被塑造成了一个武装暴力的中心。而在现实生活中，那是一条国际化的马路，能看到星巴克(Starbucks)、露天咖啡馆，街上的女性有的衣着暴露，也有的遮得严严实实。阿布德特别愤怒的是，该剧是在以色列拍摄的。理论上，黎巴嫩和以色列还处于交战状态。
Ms. Amin and her colleagues said the show demonstrated its insensitivity by “naming a key terrorist character after the former real-life Pakistani ambassador to the United States.” (The character is Haissam Haqqani; the ambassador, Husain Haqqani, who served from 2008 to 2011, is an eminent scholar who has written frequently — and highly critically of the Pakistan government — for The New York Times and other publications.)
阿明和同事称，该剧“让一名关键恐怖分子的角色和现实生活中的前巴基斯坦驻美大使同名”，这显示出该剧缺乏敏感。（剧中的角色叫海赛姆·哈卡尼[Haissam Haqqani]，现实生活中的人物叫侯赛因·哈卡尼[Husain Haqqani]，从2008年到2011年担任驻美大使，他是一位知名学者，常常为《纽约时报》和其他刊物撰文，对巴基斯坦政府持很强的批评态度。）
In a phone interview, Ms. Amin said she was particularly aggrieved by what she called the show’s misleading distortions of reality in the Middle East. “The framing of events and brainwashing about the region has a real impact on foreign policy because millions of people are getting their information from the show and can’t differentiate between facts and fiction,” she said. “No doubt that it looks good and is well acted, but I had boycotted the show as it is so frustrating and insulting to watch it.”
在接受电话采访时，阿明称该剧对中东的真实情况的误导性歪曲，让她感到特别愤愤不平。“对剧情的设定，以及有关该地区的洗脑行为，真的会影响外交政策。因为数以百万计的人是从该剧获取信息的，他们无法区分事实和虚构，”她说。“毋庸置疑，该剧看上去不错，表演精彩，但我抵制这部剧，因为看它会让人感到非常失望和屈辱。”
The artists said they were first contacted in June by a friend who was active in the street art scene in Berlin. It was then that their plan took root. “It was our moment to make our point by subverting the message using the show itself,” they wrote. Ms. Amin said that the series was easy to dupe, as there did not seem to be stringent fact-checking, and that she had noticed many linguistic Arabic inaccuracies in the past.
这些艺术家称，最早是在7月，柏林一个活跃于街头艺术布景圈的朋友联系到他们。他们的计划正是那个时候开始的。“是我们用这部剧来推翻虚假信息的时候了，”他们写道。阿明说，节目组很好骗，因为似乎没有严格的事实查证措施，而且她过去就注意到了很多不通顺的阿拉伯语。