A year is a long time to spend in mourning. It is a period expansive enough to leave the dead in the past, and to forge new and renewed relationships with those still living.
在哀悼中度过的一年格外漫长。这段辽阔的时间足以令人把死者抛到过去，与尚在世者培养起新的感情，或者与旧识言归于好。
We longtime viewers of “Downton Abbey” have had ample opportunity to think about this in the nearly 11 months that have gone by between the last traumatic installment in the United States and its Season 4 premiere on Sunday night.
距离《唐顿庄园》上一季令人伤痛的最后一集在美国播出已经过去将近11个月，我们这些《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)的长期观众有足够多的机会去思考这些。如今，第四季的第一集已在本周日晚上映了。
When the series creator Julian Fellowes finally raised the curtain on this latest year in the life of Britain’s aristocratic Crawleys and their servants, many of us wondered, would he allow us the chance to lament the loss of dear, dead Matthew (formerly played by Dan Stevens), who met his demise in a car accident in the closing moments of Season 3 — an event that came so soon after Lady Mary (Michelle Dockery) bore them their first child, and just when we were finally getting over the shocking postpartum death of Lady Sybil (Jessica Brown Findlay)?
该剧讲述英国贵族克劳利夫妇与仆人们的生活，当编剧朱利安·费罗斯(Julian Fellowes)终于掀开最新一季的帷幕，我们当中许多人都在好奇，他会不会给我们机会，为亲爱的马修（丹·史蒂文斯[Dan Stevens]饰）去世而哀悼——马修在第三季的结尾因车祸丧生，事件发生前不久，玛丽女士（米歇尔·道克瑞[Michelle Dockery]饰）刚刚怀上两人的第一个孩子，而我们也刚刚好不容易才从西比尔女士（杰西卡·布朗·芬德雷[Jessica Brown Findlay]）因难产而死的震惊中恢复过来。
Or had enough time elapsed, in the world of “Downton Abbey” and in our own, for life and the story of this show to go on?
抑或在《唐顿庄园》的世界，乃至我们自己的世界里，时间已经过去得够久，无论是生活还是剧集都应该向前发展了？
And after all those months, would we still have a sizable place in our hearts for the melodramatic goings-on at “Downton Abbey” — and the surviving Crawleys, and Anna and Mr. Bates and Thomas and Daisy, and Mr. Carson and Mrs. Hughes and Mrs. Patmore — after a year in which competing serial dramas like “Breaking Bad,” “The Good Wife,” “Scandal,” “Orange Is the New Black” and others, all made convincing cases for their primacy and our attention?
几个月来，我们的心中是否还为《唐顿庄园》的伤感剧情保留着可观的一席之地？还有活下来的克劳利夫妇、安娜与贝茨先生、托马斯与黛西，还有卡森先生、休斯夫人和帕特摩尔夫人？毕竟这一年里有那么多连续剧作为竞争对手，诸如《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)、《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)、《丑闻》(Scandal)和《女子监狱》(Orange Is the New Black)等等，它们都无愧于优秀的剧集，都值得我们关注。
TV ratings should shortly provide the answer to the last question; for the others, the message of this season premiere seemed to be: Move on.
电视收视率会很快提供最后一个问题的答案；至于其他问题，新一季第一集给我们的答案似乎是：向前看吧。
After an unusually gloomy opening-credit sequence — call it “Downton After Dark” — the series picks up in 1922, some six months after Matthew’s death. And though his headstone is glimpsed briefly in an early scene, most of the household seems more concerned with the abrupt departure of the scheming lady’s maid, Miss O’Brien, who conveniently left to join a new employer in India. (The role was played by Siobhan Finneran, who left the series between seasons. “Why run off and leave us in the lurch?” one character asks of O’Brien, seeming to comment on more than just the fictional reality.)
异常阴郁的片头字幕之后——上面写道“黑暗过后的唐顿”——这一季从1922年开始，也就是马修死后六个月左右。尽管他的坟墓在开头的场面中短暂出现，但大多数家人似乎更关心狡猾的女仆奥布莱恩小姐的突然离开——她颇合时宜地离去，到印度找了个新雇主——奥布莱恩这个角色由希欧布罕·芬内朗(Siobhan Finneran)饰演，她在两季之间离开了剧组。“为什么突然离开我们走掉？”一个角色问起奥布莱恩，这似乎除了剧情中的意思之外还别具深意。
It is only Lady Mary, who wanders the estate in all-black attire and delivers simple lines like “Have a happy time” with no intonation whatsoever, who seems unable to let go of Matthew. If this is understandable to the audience, it is less so to the Crawleys, who fear she is withdrawing from them and from her baby son, George, who is now entitled to more of Downton than his mother. (“A baby rich as Croesus and a mother almost passed over,” as Isobel Crawley describes them.)
一身黑衣的玛丽女士在大宅中游荡，用不带任何语气的口吻说着简单的台词，比如“祝你愉快”，似乎只有她还无法忘怀马修。观众或许能理解她，克劳利夫妇就不那么理解，他们担心她会避开他们，也放弃她的小婴儿乔治，他现在对唐顿庄园的所有权要比母亲为多。“一个富豪婴儿和一个快咽气的母亲”，伊索贝尔·克劳利这样形容母子俩。
Not even an uncharacteristic display of affection from the otherwise unsparingly arch Dowager Countess (Maggie Smith) is quite enough to turn Lady Mary around. “I’m not your governess — I’m your grandmother,” the Dowager Countess tells her. “The difference is, I love you.”
就连一贯自负的老伯爵遗孀（玛吉·史密斯[Maggie Smith]饰）罕有地露出温情的时刻，也无法让玛丽女士回心转意。“我不是你的家庭女教师——我是你的祖母，”伯爵遗孀对她说：“区别就是，我爱你。”
Lady Mary confides to her that after Matthew’s death, “All the softness that he found in me seems to have dried up and drained away. Maybe it was only ever there in his imagination.”
玛丽女士向她承认马修死后，“他在我身上发现的所有柔情似乎都已枯竭，流逝而去。也许那柔情只是存在于他的想像之中。”
The Countess replies, “There’s more than one type of good mother,” adding that Mary must choose between life and death.
伯爵夫人答道：“好妈妈不止一种，”并说玛丽必须在生与死之间做出选择。
It is not until after an argument with the usually temperate butler Mr. Carson (Jim Carter), who advises Mary to fight for her share of the ownership of Downton, that she realizes it’s time to come back to the land of the living. Or at least, as Mary says, “that I’ve spent too long in the land of the dead.”
后来一贯温和的仆役长卡森先生（吉姆·卡特[Jim Carter]饰演）和玛丽吵了一架，他建议玛丽为保住自己对唐顿庄园的一份所有权而奋斗，直到那时，她才意识到自己应该回到现实生活中来了。至少如她所说：“我在死亡的国度逗留了太长时间。”
In this supersized installment of “Downton,” Mr. Fellowes seemed eager to get away from grief and back to the storytelling devices he has made synonymous with the series: the mixing of social classes, the ominous nods toward impending 20th-century history and the occasionally improbable deus-ex-machina plot development.
在这一集特别长的《唐顿庄园》里，费罗斯似乎渴望摆脱悲伤，回到剧集原本的故事框架中去，他已使得这些框架成为该剧的同义词：社会阶级的融合、对20世纪历史的不祥预感，以及偶尔出人意料、天外飞仙般的剧情发展。
By the season’s second hour, the comically bumbling butler Molesley (Kevin Doyle) fell sadly on hard times; Carson was reunited with a mysterious figure from his past; and the naughty niece Lady Rose (Lily James) sneaked off to a dance hall, unwittingly started a fight between two men and, when one of her suitors traced her back to Downton, was forced to pretend she was a maid. There was even the discovery of a beyond-the-grave letter from Matthew, written before his death, that made Lady Mary his sole heir and put her on a collision course with her assertive daddy, Lord Grantham (Hugh Bonneville).
在本季第二集到来之前，笨手笨脚的搞笑仆役长莫莱斯利（凯文·多伊尔[Kevin Doyle]）可悲地落入困境；卡森与一个他过去相识的神秘人物重会；顽皮的侄女罗斯女士（莉莉·詹姆斯[Lily James]饰）偷偷溜进舞厅，无意中挑起两个男人之间的争端，她的求婚者之一跟着她回到唐顿，被迫假装把她当成女仆。有一封马修生前写的信被发现了，他将玛丽列为自己的唯一继承人，这让她和武断的父亲格兰瑟姆爵士（休·博内威利[Hugh Bonneville]饰）之间产生了矛盾。
But try though he may to embrace life, Mr. Fellowes could not prevent a certain persistent morbidity from creeping into his writing: witness Lady Edith (Laura Carmichael) observing that if her father lost his servants, “he’d be found in a passage, dead, arms stretched out, looking for the kitchen.”
尽管费罗斯试图贴近现实生活，但仍然无法阻止一种病态持续侵入他的创作：旁观者伊迪丝女士（劳拉·卡尔迈克尔[Laura Carmichael]）注意到，如果她的父亲失去仆人，“他就会被人发现死在过道上，双臂伸开，向着厨房的方向。”
Or, as Mr. Carson informs Mrs. Hughes during a quarrel rich with sublimation, “We shout and scream and wail and cry, but in the end we must all die.”
又或者正如卡森先生在一场充满升华之感的争吵中对休斯夫人说的：“我们大喊、尖叫、哀嚎、哭泣，但到头来都难免一死。”
“That’s cheered me up,” Mrs. Hughes replies. “Thank you.”
“这真让我振奋，”休斯夫人答道，“多谢了。”
Did you weep for Matthew, or for Miss O’Brien, or just cry tears of joy that “Downton Abbey” had returned? Leave your reflections, questions and theories in the comments below. (No fair cheating if you’ve already watched the British broadcasts.)
你是否曾为马修或奥布莱恩小姐流下泪水，或者因为《唐顿庄园》的回归喜极而泣？你有什么感想、问题或推测，请在下面留言（假如你已经看过英国版，不要剧透）。