How do you please Lorne Michaels? Twenty-two ‘Saturday Night Live’ cast members – and one who came close – share tales of the audition that can make or break a career.
如何取悦洛恩·迈克尔斯(Lorne Michaels)? 《周六夜现场》（”Saturday Night Live”，简称”SNL”）的22位演员（以及与栏目组擦肩而过的一位演员）分享了那些要么成就、要么牵绊了他们演艺生涯的试镜经历。
For nearly 40 years, “Saturday Night Live” has been a reliable engine for generating new comedic talent, and a springboard for stars like Dana Carvey, Will Ferrell, Jimmy Fallon and Kristen Wiig.
近四十年来，《周六夜现场》一直是稳定持续盛产喜剧明星的宝地，也成为诸如达纳·卡维(Dana Carvey)、威尔·法瑞尔(Will Ferrell)、吉米·法伦(Jimmy Fallon)、 克里斯汀·韦格(Kristen Wiig)等众星的事业跳板。
Though new cast members come from many different avenues, there’s ultimately only one way to get on this NBC late-night franchise: impress Lorne Michaels, the “SNL” creator and executive producer who has run the show for 33 of its 38 seasons and is known for his cryptic, sphinxlike presence over the show.
虽然说栏目组的新成员们背景纷呈、来路各异，但到头来要想上这档NBC晚间热播重戏的办法只有一个：打动洛恩·迈克尔斯。这位SNL神话的缔造者、执行制片人，制作了开播以来38季节目中的33季，以其神秘莫测、捉摸不定的指导风格著称。
This year he and his team have their work cut out for them as they try to replace the veteran “SNL” players Bill Hader, Fred Armisen and Jason Sudeikis and prepare for the departure of Seth Meyers early next year. These losses will test a tradition that has evolved through decades, as Mr. Michaels and his colleagues spend their summers scouring sketch and improv comedy theaters and stand-up clubs around the country to replenish the ranks at “Saturday Night Live.”
今年，他和他的团队面临艰巨任务——寻找SNL老将比尔·哈德尔(Bill Hader)、弗莱德·阿米森(Fred Armisen)、杰森·苏代基斯(Jason Sudeikis)的接班人，同时为明年初塞斯·梅耶斯(Seth Meyers)的离开做准备。损失这样的大将，将会是对节目几十年间形成的传统的一次考验，所以迈克尔斯先生和他的同事们整个夏天都在全国的即兴喜剧小品剧场和滑稽说笑俱乐部转悠，为《周六夜现场》补充新鲜血液。
But what exactly is Mr. Michaels looking for? While his personal tastes are enigmatic and the show’s recruiting process is generally opaque, dozens of performers have successfully navigated this minefield of uncertainty and anxiety.
但是，迈克尔斯先生欣赏的到底是什么？他本人的品味高深莫测，节目的招聘过程也不透明，尽管如此，还是有一些演员成功地走出了这个充满未知、令人焦虑的雷区。
Here, 22 past and present “Saturday Night Live” cast members — and one who almost made it — tell how they auditioned for the show. In these excerpts from their recollections, they reveal the stages of an obstacle course that often culminates with an audition on the “SNL” stage at NBC’s Studio 8H (sometimes more than once) and an ambiguous final interview (or is it a personality test?) with Mr. Michaels himself — all for that one career-making chance to declare that “Live, from New York, it’s ‘Saturday Night’!”
在此，22位昔日和今天的节目成员——也包括当初没能入选的演员，要向我们讲述他们试镜的故事。在这些回忆片段中，他们展示了这个过五关斩六将的过程，而最终的考验即是在NBC的8H号演播厅里登上SNL的舞台（有时候还需要多次），以及与这位摸不到脉的迈克尔斯先生本人的最终面试。所有这一切，都是为了能在台上高喊出那一句成就事业的“这里是纽约，周六夜现场！”（"Live from New York, it’s Saturday night!" 这是《周六夜现场》的标志性台词，由主持人和客座嘉宾充满激情地喊出——译注）
The Original Auditions
最初的试镜
CHEVY CHASE I didn’t think the show would last more than a year. I’m not even sure Lorne [Michaels] did. We were going to get our licks in while we could. We went through this stage where basically people tried out with stand-up and [comedy] groups. Gilda [Radner] was already chosen, and Danny [Aykroyd], too. Then [as a head writer] I sat with Lorne in the Steinway building on 57th Street. There was a little proscenium stage, and lots of acts came in. We took Jane [Curtin]. Billy Murray, we didn’t take. [Laughs.] I don’t remember why. But for some reason he didn’t make the cut.
切维·切斯(Chevy Chase)：我当时觉得这个节目不会超过一年。我甚至觉得洛恩（洛恩·迈克尔斯）也是这样预期的。我们只是想趁着节目还在的时候尽情尽力。有一段时期我们通过单口和群口喜剧表演来选人。当时吉尔达（吉尔达·瑞德尔，Gilda Radner）已被选中，丹尼（丹尼·艾克罗伊德，Danny Aykroyd）也被选中，然后我（作为节目主笔）和洛恩在57街的斯坦威大楼里，那儿有一个小的镜框式舞台，我们在那儿看了很多表演。我们选中了简（简·库丁，Jane Curtin），但没有选比尔·默里(Billy Murray) （笑）。我不记得为什么了，反正当时觉得他不是很合适。
We had our cast and were back at [Studio] 8H, and there was a little room nearby with a long desk which could act as a stage. Lorne asked everybody to go up there and do something. At the end he said, “Chevy, get up there and do something.” So I made up some strange story about Gerald Ford. It was pretty clear that I was a funny guy. I was taller than everybody, and very handsome. [Laughs.] It was a good choice, really.
选中全班人马之后，我们回到8H（演播厅），那儿有个小屋子和一个可以充当舞台的长条桌。洛恩让每个人都上去表演。表演完，他说，“切维，你上去演一段！”我即兴编了一个关于杰拉尔德·福特(Gerald Ford)的古怪段子（福特是美国第38届总统。总统等政客一直是SNL恶搞的重要题材——译注意）。很明显我是个搞笑的人，也比其他人长得高大帅气（笑）。洛恩没有看错人。
The Humble Beginnings
起于卑微
DANA CARVEY I was doing stand-up and being offered a lot of bad TV shows. Bill Murray, [Dan] Aykroyd, [John] Belushi — they were guys who might make you laugh, but they could beat you up if they wanted to. I looked like Timmy from the “Lassie” show.
达纳·卡维：我当时表演一些单口喜剧，经常有很多不入流的电视节目找我表演。比尔·默里、艾克罗伊德（丹尼·艾克罗伊德） 、贝鲁希（约翰·贝鲁希，John Belushi）这些人很搞笑，但是如果他们想要整你，你也躲不过。我当时长得活像是《灵犬莱西》里的蒂米(Timmy)。
MOLLY SHANNON I heard that Lorne Michaels was looking at tapes. I used my waitressing money and made a tape of my characters. I was on a pay phone across from an El Pollo Loco, and I found out that he had passed on it. I was crying. I was devastated.
莫莉·香侬(Molly Shannon)：我听说洛恩·迈克尔斯在看录像带挑演员。我就用餐馆端盘子存下的钱制作了一盘自己的表演录像带。我当时站在“疯狂之鸡”快餐店(El Pollo Loco)对面一个电话亭里，得知他没有选中我。我哭了，简直崩溃了。
TRACY MORGAN I was married, I had three sons, and I was on welfare. I didn’t want that no more. I knew that if I got “Saturday Night Live,” it would change me and my family’s lives forever.
崔西·摩根(Tracy Morgan)：我当时已经结婚了，有三个儿子，靠低保福利过日子。我不想再那样生活。我知道如果我能上《周六夜现场》，那将永远改变我和家人的命运。
CHERI OTERI I was temping, and my manager called me and said, “What are you doing Monday?” And I was like: “Very funny. I’m temping here at legal at Disney.” And he goes, “No, you’re not — you’re flying to New York to audition for ‘Saturday Night Live.’ ” I screamed so loud at the legal department at Disney, and that’s a no-no.
切里·奥特莱(Cheri Oteri)：我当时在做临时工，我的经理打电话给我，问：“你周一有什么安排？”我心想，“真搞笑，还能有什么安排，还不是在迪斯尼的法律部打零工么。”然后他说，“错了！你周一要飞去纽约参加《周六夜现场》的试镜！”我就在迪斯尼的法律部里尖叫起来，那可是犯了大忌的举动。
The Bad Advice
糟糕的建议
SHANNON There was a woman scouting for the show, and she said: “Whatever you do, when you audition for Lorne, don’t do that character, Mary Katherine Gallagher. Lorne will hate that. You’ll never, ever get hired if you do that for your audition.”
香侬：当时有位女士是节目的星探，她对我说：“你给洛恩试镜的时候，表演什么都行，就是不要演玛丽·凯瑟琳·加拉格尔(Mary Katherine Gallagher)这个角色，洛恩会特别讨厌这个人物。你试镜演这个的话，就永远也别想被选中了。”（玛丽·凯瑟琳·加拉格尔是由香侬原创并演绎的一个虚拟人物，在SNL舞台上大放异彩，标志着节目在上世纪90年代期间女性主笔的影响逐渐加强——译注）
DAVID SPADE Dennis Miller told me: “You don’t want to kill too hard, Spudley. It throws up a red flag. You don’t want to be a polished road act.” And I go: “Well, I’m certainly not that. There’s no danger.”
大卫·斯佩德(David Spade)：丹尼斯·米勒(Dennis Miller)告诉我：“你不要演得太完美无暇，斯巴利［译者注：Spudley， 对斯佩德的昵称］，这样就容易亮红灯。别演得天衣无缝。”然后我说，“我肯定演不完美。你放心吧。”
JAY MOHR I didn’t take it [the audition] very seriously. The odds of getting on “Saturday Night Live” are zero. You could go to astronaut school, and you can learn how to get in a rocket and go to the moon, but there’s no “getting a stand-up on ‘Saturday Night Live’ ” school.
杰·摩尔(Jay Mohr)：我没（拿试镜）太当回事。能上《周六夜现场》的几率基本等于零。你能上宇航学校，学习如何坐着火箭登上月球，但是你找不到一间学校可以教你“如何上《周六夜现场》的舞台演喜剧”。
The Anxiety
焦灼不安
SETH MEYERS The hotel I was staying at, everybody was somebody who’d been flown in for the audition. If you went and got ice, you would hear snippets of auditions. Everybody else’s stuff sounds better than yours.
塞斯·梅耶斯：我试镜时住的酒店里，每个人都是专程飞来被安排试镜的，每个人都是个人物。你去取个冰块，也能听见别人在练习试镜的段子。每个人的段子听起来都比你自己的好。
KRISTEN WIIG They said the audition should be five minutes long, and do not go over five minutes. I ended up buying a stopwatch because I was so nervous. I would time it and it would say “5:02,” and I would be like, “I’m going to get this in five minutes exactly.” Then I heard that some people were out there for 11 minutes. I was like, “What?”
克里斯汀·韦格：我听说试镜时间是五分钟，不能超时。因为太紧张了，我最后买了块秒表。我就边练边计时，表上显示“五分零二秒”，我就会想，“我要练到正正好好五分钟。”然后我听说有人表演了十一分钟，我就说：“啊？”
BILL HADER I got in an elevator, and there was a guy who was also auditioning, and I thought: “That guy brought a lot of props. I didn’t bring anything.” And he was looking at me, going, “That guy didn’t have to bring any props.” We were just sizing each other up in the elevator. And that was Andy Samberg.
比尔·哈德尔(Bill Hader)：我进了电梯，里面有个人也是去试镜，我心想，“人家带了好多道具啊。我什么都没带。”然后他看了看我，也自己嘀咕，“这人都不用任何道具就能搞定啊。”我们就在电梯里互相打量。后来我知道那人是安迪·萨姆伯格(Andy Samberg)。
JIMMY FALLON In makeup, they go, “Hey, Jimmy, some advice: Lorne Michaels doesn’t laugh when you audition. So don’t let that throw you.” Then the audio guy, he goes, “Hey, little advice — Lorne doesn’t like to laugh.” I’m like, “O.K.” Then Marci [Klein, a longtime “SNL” producer] comes out: “Jimmy, they’re ready for you. But hey, a little advice for you. If Lorne doesn’t laugh, be cool.” I’m like, what is this guy’s problem? He’s doing a comedy show. Why does he not like to laugh?
吉米·法伦：在化妆间，他们跟我说：“哎，吉米，给你个建议：洛恩·迈克尔斯在试镜过程中是不会笑的。别让这个影响了你发挥。”一会儿音响师和我说：“哎，提醒你一句啊：洛恩不爱笑。”我说：“嗯，行吧。”然后马尔西（马尔西·克莱恩，Marci Klein，SNL资深制片人）出来告诉我：“吉米，该你了。哎，给你个小建议：如果洛恩不笑的话，你要保持淡定。”我心想，这人有病吧？做娱乐喜剧节目的，干吗不喜欢笑呢？
WILL FERRELL Everyone was camped out in these dressing rooms on the ninth floor. It felt like we were a bunch of paratroopers, about to storm the beach at D-Day. “You hear any news from the front?” You stand outside the stage doors while you’re listening to the performer ahead of you finish up. And you’re looking along the walls, at all the past cast members. It’s just hitting you, and you’re trying not to vomit.
威尔·法瑞尔：大家都在九层的化妆室里打地摊儿扎营。那阵势好像我们是一群伞兵，随时准备诺曼底登陆似的。“听到前面什么消息吗？”你站在台口，听着你前面的演员正在准备收尾。你顺着墙壁看过去，满眼都是以往的节目演员。这时你才意识到你有多紧张，你的念头就是千万不要吐。
OTERI Chris [Kattan] and Will [Ferrell] and I all went out — I don’t want to say where, because it’s a famous restaurant and it’s Italian-owned and I don’t want any trouble. But I ended up throwing up all night from food poisoning. All the blood vessels in my eyes were broken, and the blood vessels in my face. I did not sleep. I walked into the audition and the makeup person said, “Oh my God, what happened to you?” I looked like I was in a car accident.
奥特莱：克里斯（克里斯·卡坦，Chris Kattan）和威尔（威尔·法瑞尔）还有我一起出去吃饭，我就不说去了哪儿吃了，那家餐厅很有名，老板是意大利人，我可不想惹麻烦。总之随后我食物中毒一整夜都在呕吐。我眼睛里的毛细血管都爆裂了，脸上的毛细血管也都破了。一夜无眠。我到了试镜现场，化妆师说：“我的天哪，你怎么了这是？”我看上去就像出了车祸一样。
The Characters
角儿们
CARVEY I had done the Church Lady as a stand-up character. So by the time Lorne saw me, I did the whole thing: “Well, well, well, we like ourselves don’t we?” “Conveeeenient.” I had a bunch of impressions like Robin Leach and things that were cool back in the ’80s.
卡维：我之前表演单口喜剧时就已经扮过了教会太太这个角色。所以洛恩看我试镜时，我就整个儿端出了这个角色：“哎，哎，哎，我们看自己可顺眼呢，是吧？”“简直——太——省事了。”我还模仿了一大堆名人，比如罗宾·里奇(Robin Leach)等，还有一些80年代流行的东西。
MOHR I did an Andrew McCarthy impression and that was good currency, because it was very strange and very off the beaten path. I did a lot of De Niro and Pesci as Batman and Robin.
摩尔：我模仿了一段安德鲁·麦卡西(Andrew McCarthy)，反响很好，因为这算比较奇特新颖的选材。我还表演了如果德尼罗(De Niro)和佩西(Pesci)来演蝙蝠侠与罗宾这两个角色的效果。
OTERI The biggest thing on was Diane Sawyer interviewing Michael Jackson and Lisa Marie Presley. So I played Lisa Marie Presley in that interview. She’s like rock royalty marrying the king of pop, and she sounded like a street-corner thug. Overly defensive but a tough cookie.
奥特莱：当时最大的热点就是黛安·索耶（Diane Sawyer，美国广播公司[ABC]当家女主播——译注）采访迈克尔·杰克逊(Michael Jackson)和妻子丽莎·玛丽·普莱斯利(Lisa Marie Presley)。我就饰演了接受采访的丽莎·玛丽·普莱斯利。这个拥有摇滚乐皇室血统（译者注：丽莎是“摇滚乐之王”猫王的女儿）、嫁给了“流行乐之王”的女人，说起话来活像个街角的暴徒，处处防备、气势汹汹。
ANA GASTEYER I did Martha Stewart. I was kind of obsessed with her. I knew that if I wore a blond wig I could look like her, and she had this patrician thing I’d grown up with.
安娜·盖斯泰尔(Ana Gasteyer)：我模仿了玛莎·斯图尔特（Martha Stewart，美国商界、电视娱乐圈名人，全美第二富婆——译注）。我对她这个人物很着迷。我知道如果我戴上金色假发，就会很像她，她身上有一股贵族习气，也是我从小熟悉的。
FERRELL I did Bill Clinton. That was horrible. Especially when I saw Darrell Hammond’s audition. I was like, “Oh, I get it — he’s the impersonation guy.”
法瑞尔：我模仿了比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)。演得可糟糕了。尤其是我看了达瑞尔·哈蒙德(Darrell Hammond)的试镜以后，我心想，“哦，明白了，人家才是模仿秀的专家。”
CHRIS PARNELL I did this Southern preacher, who, it comes out through his sermon, is sexually obsessed and really inappropriate.
克里斯·帕内尔(Chris Parnell)：我演了一个来自南方的牧师，在讲经时不知不觉流露出在性方面的各种痴迷妄想，说起话来非常不合时宜。
MORGAN I did a gay track runner. And a character named Biscuit, from the inner city, who had a chip on his shoulder because his dad wasn’t there.
摩根：我演了一个同性恋田径选手。还有一个名字叫饼干的人物，来自下城区，由于他爸不在身边而到处蛮横生事。
FALLON I did a celebrity walk-a-thon and put a bunch of celebrities in it. Seinfeld, Gilbert Gottfried, Bill Cosby. I was such a giant Adam Sandler fan, and I had a good impression of him.
法伦：我演了一段名人步行马拉松，把一大堆明星编到里面。宋飞(Seinfeld)、吉尔伯特·戈特弗雷德(Gilbert Gottfried) 、比尔·科斯比(Bill Cosby)等等，我当时还是亚当·桑德勒(Adam Sandler)的超级粉丝，模仿他非常传神。
MEYERS It’s 2001, so I think I’m doing Russell Crowe, Hugh Grant and David Arquette.
梅耶斯：那是2001年，我应该是模仿了罗素·克劳(Russell Crowe)、休·格兰特(Hugh Grant)和大卫·阿奎特(David Arquette)。
FRED ARMISEN Fericito, the Latin timbales-playing Tito Puente guy, was the majority of my audition. I did Sam Waterston from “Law & Order” and Vin Diesel.
弗莱德·阿米森：我试镜的大部分篇幅都是演的费里希托(Fericito)这个人物，是个拉丁天巴鼓鼓手，有点儿铁托·普恩特（Tito Puente，二十世纪拉丁爵士乐大师——译注）的范儿。我还演了萨姆·沃特森(Sam Waterston)在《法律与秩序》中的角色，以及范·迪塞尔(Vin Diesel)。
WIIG I did a very timely impression of Jane Pauley. [Laughs.] That was just a sign of things to come, because I always played older women with short hair.
韦格：我当时非常应景地模仿了简·波利(Jane Pauley)［笑］。那简直是对未来的一种预示，因为我后来演了很多短发、年纪稍大的女性角色。
HADER My audition was me as Vinny Vedecci, doing Al Pacino talking to his maid staff. Tony Blair talking about the new “Star Wars” movie in Parliament. James Mason with an expired gift certificate for a dozen doughnuts.
哈德尔：我试镜时演了我的虚构人物威尼·瓦德西(Vinny Vedecci)，他装成阿尔·帕西诺(Al Pacino)和佣人说话。我还演了托尼·布莱尔在议会上大谈新版《星球大战》(Star Wars)，还有詹姆斯·梅森(James Mason)拿着一张过期的礼券去买一打甜甜圈。
TARAN KILLAM I did eight or nine impressions, including Brad Pitt, Jimmy Fallon, Tom Hanks, Paul Giamatti and Seth Rogen. I finished with this sketch that is a hypothetical Super Bowl between the New York Giants and the New York Jets, and to honor the two New York teams, they’ve hired Broadway superstar David Keith Mitchell to perform the halftime show by himself. It’s a medley of musical-theater show tunes, and David Keith Mitchell clearly knows very little about football.
塔兰·基尔拉姆(Tara Killam)：我模仿了八九个人物，包括布拉德·皮特、吉米·法伦、汤姆·汉克斯、保罗·吉亚玛提(Paul Giamatti)和塞斯·罗根(Seth Rogen)。我的压轴戏是一个虚拟情景表演：超级碗决赛在纽约巨人队和纽约喷气机队之间展开，为了庆祝两支纽约的球队，他们请了百老汇大明星大卫·基思·米切尔(David Keith Mitchell)在中场休息时演出。表演风格是音乐剧大杂烩，但很显然大卫·基思·米切尔对橄榄球知之甚少。
CECILY STRONG I did Elizabeth Dole responding to a heckler.
塞西利·斯庄(Cecily Strong)：我模仿的是伊丽莎白·多尔(Elizabeth Dole)回应一个诘难者。
KATE McKINNON I did Penélope Cruz. I did Sally Field and Temple Grandin. It’s too bad she’s not in the news more. I have that in my back pocket in case she does anything wacky.
凯特·麦克金农(Kate Mckinnon)：我演了潘尼洛普·克魯茲(Penélope Cruz)。我还演了莎莉·菲尔德(Sally Field)和天宝·葛兰汀(Temple Grandin)。挺可惜她没有太多新闻。我随时预备着这个人物，她一旦干了什么疯狂的事儿，我可以随时出演（天宝·葛兰汀，美国名人，动物科学家、畅销书作家、著名自闭症患者，故事被拍成电影——译注）
The Omens (Good)
吉兆
OTERI I felt good because I heard Lorne laugh a little bit. I saw him out of the corner of my eye, laughing his very subtle, subtle laughter. Almost regal laughter.
奥特莱：我感觉很好，因为我听见洛恩笑了一下儿。我余光里看见他非常、非常含蓄地笑了，那种近似于帝王的矜持的笑。
ANDY SAMBERG The only person I for sure knew was laughing was Tina [Fey, then the “SNL” head writer], which, outside of Lorne, is the best thing you could hear.
安迪·萨姆伯格：当时唯一我敢肯定笑了的就是蒂娜（蒂娜·菲，SNL当时的主笔），这是除了逗洛恩笑出来之外，你能企盼的最好的消息了。
The Omens (Bad)
凶兆
KILLAM I leave the stage, and Lorne gets up from his seat and shakes my hand and says, “Thank you for coming.” And I was like: That’s it. Goodbye. No more. I didn’t have to wait long before I got a phone call which said, “They want to fly you back out in two weeks to audition again.” And I’m like: What? I gave you all of my A material. Can’t they just hire me from that? The second audition, Lorne didn’t get up to shake my hand. We got a call: It’s not going to happen this season, but it’s not never.
基尔拉姆：我下台时，洛恩起身和我握手说，“谢谢你来参加试镜。”我琢磨着，“完了。拜拜。没戏了。”没等多久我接到电话说：“他们想让你两周后飞回来再次试镜。”我心想：“啊？我最好的段子都用过了。他们不能就凭我上次的试镜招了我吗？”第二次试镜，洛恩没有起身和我握手。我们接到电话说：“这一季是不可能了，但以后不是没机会。”
RACHEL DRATCH I didn’t get it that year [of her first audition]. They hired Horatio [Sanz], Jimmy [Fallon] and Chris Parnell, and they said: “We’re not taking any women this year. But maybe next year.” I was at peace with it.
瑞秋·德拉彻(Rachel Dratch)：我那年没选上（首次试镜）。他们选了霍拉提奥（霍拉提奥·桑斯，Hortatio Sanz）、吉米·法伦和克里斯·帕内尔。他们说：“我们今年没计划招女演员。但是也许明年会招。”对这个解释我可以安然接受。
FERRELL The directive for my callback was even less structured than the first audition. But first there was a meeting with Lorne, face to face. I started to go through what I was going to do, and Lorne basically said, “Oh, I wouldn’t do that. We’ve already seen this.” By the end of it, I said, “Are you saying, basically, come up with a whole new audition?” And he was like, “Yeah.”
法瑞尔：复试比第一次试镜还没有章法。但一开始是和洛恩面对面坐下来谈话。我于是把我计划表演的内容说给他听，洛恩的回答基本就是：“哦，要是我，我不会演这个。这个我们已经看过了。”聊到最后，我说：“基本上你的意思也就是说，构思一个全新的试镜内容是吧？”他说：“对啊。”
I [had come] in with a briefcase full of counterfeit money that I’d bought at a toy store. And in the middle of whatever Lorne was going to say, I was going to start stacking the equivalent of $25,000 on his desk. “Listen, Lorne, you and I can say whatever we want to say. But we really know what talks, and that’s money. I’m going to walk out of this room, and you can either take this money or not. And I can be on the show.” But it was just not a joking atmosphere. It was just tense. And I never get to do my gag.
我（进去时）提着一个公文包，里面装满了我在玩具店买的假币。我的计划是在洛恩说着半截话的时候，把两万五千美金一摞一摞拍在他办公桌上，然后说：“你听我说，洛恩，咱俩可以一直说破嘴皮子。但是我们都明白，说话最管用的，就是钱。我这就从这屋走出去，这钱拿不拿由你。我要上这个节目。”但是当时实在不适合开玩笑。气氛非常紧张。我的玩笑始终也没能派上用场。
SHANNON I felt very calm, that I did the best job I could do. Then I was out with my sister, celebrating that I got to meet Lorne, and I got mugged. Thrown down on the ground in TriBeCa. It didn’t bother me because I was still so excited.
香侬：我心情很平和，因为自己发挥了最佳水平。然后我和姐姐去庆祝我见到了洛恩，然后我被打劫了。在翠贝卡的街上被推倒在地。那都没能影响我的好心情，我实在是太兴奋了。
The 11th-Hour Inspiration
第11小时的启发
SAMBERG I had gone to a flea market in New York and bought these short shorts. Liz Cackowski [then an “SNL” writer] had come by to wish me luck [on my callback], and I was wearing those shorts and doing this bit, called “The Out-of-Breath Jogger From 1992.” It was just me in these short shorts, yelling out things from 1992 and talking about how out of breath I was. And she was like, “You should do that tomorrow.” I was like, “O.K., I’ll do it.” Because what have I got to lose, really?
萨姆伯格：我到纽约的跳蚤市场买了条超短的短裤。丽兹·凯克沃斯基(Liz Cackowski)（当时SNL的文案）来祝我（复试）好运，我正穿着这条短裤练这个叫做“来自1992年的上气不接下气的跑步者”的段子。基本就是我穿着短裤喊着1992年的一些事和自己如何喘不上气来。她说：“你明天就来这段就行。”我心想：“好，那我就演这段。”反正是背水一战了，怕什么。
FERRELL I was talking with Chris [Kattan] and Cheri, going, “You guys, I have to literally revamp everything.” I was up till 3 in the morning. And then I did a sketch where I was a guy, alone in my office, who in between taking calls would play with cat toys. There’s a point where I’m rolling around on the ground, in complete silence, playing with cat toys. And I’m thinking: Oh, it’s over.
法瑞尔：我跟克里斯（克里斯·卡坦, Chris Kattan）和切里说：“我没办法只好整篇重新构思。”我熬到夜里三点。我表演了一个人，在自己的办公室里，在接电话的间隙玩猫玩具。有一刻我在地上滚来滚去，玩着猫玩的玩具，台上台下一片寂静。我心想，这下儿没戏了。
The Lorne Meeting
洛恩的会议
MEYERS They flew me all the way back to New York to meet with Lorne. I realized later that he was doing a final personality vet. He said, “Do you think you can live in New York?” And I thought, “Does anyone blow it at this stage?” Does anybody get this far in the process, and then is like, “It’s definitely New York? Well, if you guys can’t be flexible on that, I’m not sure if I can be flexible on that.”
梅耶斯：他们安排我又飞回纽约去见洛恩。我后来意识到那是他要做最后的脾气性格考量。他说：“你觉得你可以在纽约生活下去吗？”我心想：“有人在到了这个阶段之后搞砸了被淘汰掉吗？”会有人在过五关斩六将之后答道：“必须住在纽约吗？如果你们在这点上不能通融的话，我可不能保证我可以让步。”
SAMBERG There’s a quote of Lorne’s, that you’re not just hiring talented people — you’re hiring people that you don’t mind seeing in a dark hallway at 6 in the morning. At some point or other, you’re going to bump into every single person who works there with your hair completely standing on end and the bags under your eyes are down to your ankles.
萨姆伯格：洛恩有句名言：你不仅仅是在招罗人才，你也在招你不介意在早上六点黑漆漆的走廊里迎头撞见的人。或早或晚，跟你工作的每个人，你都能在最狼狈的时候碰到他们，那时你头发像鸡窝，眼袋耷拉到脚面。
FALLON I was sitting there with Lorne’s assistant for three hours, and I’m like, “Whenever he’s ready, I’m here.” And she’s like, “You know, Chris Farley waited for eight hours.”
法伦：我跟洛恩的助理那儿坐等了三个小时，我说：“他什么时候有空了，我随时可以啊。”她说：“你知道吧，克里斯·法雷(Chris Farley)等了八个小时。”
TIM MEADOWS Lorne just asked me about myself. Where did you grow up? What kind of stuff were you interested in comedically? I told him I was a big fan of “SNL” and Monty Python, and Second City and Mel Brooks. Being an African-American, I think I may have surprised him that I was influenced by those things.
蒂姆·麦道斯：洛恩问了我关于我自己的一些问题。在哪儿长大的？喜剧娱乐里喜欢什么风格的？我告诉他我是SNL和蒙提·派森(Monty Python)的超级粉丝，也特别钟爱第二城喜剧团和梅尔·布鲁克斯(Mel Brooks)。我想我作为一个黑人，热衷这些东西，让他有些没有想到。
MORGAN He saw my head was on my family, and there’s where me and him connected. Not even on comedy. We were both fathers.
摩根：他看到我总是把家庭放在首位，我们就建立了共鸣，都没涉及喜剧层面。我们俩都是做父亲的。
KILLAM I said: “I don’t want to be so presumptuous to say I’ll come on your show and I’ll kill. But I definitely think if you hired me, I’d do a very good job.” He said: “No, no, no, no. Confidence isn’t your problem.” And he just left it at that. But all I could think is: “Wait, what is my problem? Tell me what my problem is, I’ll fix it!”
基尔拉姆：我当时说：“我不想口出狂言地说我来到你的节目上就要所向披靡。但是如果你招了我，我一定会做得很好。”他说，“哦不不不，你的问题可不是缺乏自信。”然后他没再往下说。但是我一直想，“等等，那你说我的问题是什么呢？你倒是告诉我，我好改正啊！”
GASTEYER I didn’t say a single thing right. In fact, I cried in the parking lot.
盖斯泰尔：我（在面试中）就没说对过一句话。我在停车场里哭了半天。
WIIG I barely remember it because I was so nervous. He was telling me a story about Chevy Chase, and I was thinking, “Oh my gosh, this guy has a huge fish tank in his office.”
韦格：我太紧张了，所以对此的记忆几乎是空白。他当时给我讲一个关于切维·切斯的故事，我当时脑子里在想：“天哪，这个人的办公室里居然有这么大的一个鱼缸。”
McKINNON I thought I had undone what I done in the audition room by being so boring. I was pretty catatonic. I think all I said was, “I’m from Long Island.”
麦克金农：我面试时整个人表现得乏味至极，我觉得我在试镜时的加分表现在面试时又都减掉了。我紧张得要发疯了。我好像除了“我来自长岛”之外，别的什么也说不出来。
MARC MARON I think I was a little high on pot. There were some pictures facing [Mr. Michaels], and in front of the pictures was a bowl of candy. It was all very loaded. And then he just starts looking at me, to a point where Steve Higgins [then an “SNL” producer] goes, “Lorne?” And Lorne goes, “You can tell a lot by looking into someone’s eyes.” And then I took a candy. Lorne looked at Steve, and the meeting was over. I thought I failed the candy test.
马克·马龙(Marc Maron)：我当时大概是吸了大麻有点飘。（面对迈克尔思先生的位置）摆着一些相片，相片前面有一个盛糖果的碗。碗里装了满满的糖果。然后他就开始盯着我看，到后来史蒂夫·希金斯(Steve Higgins)（当时SNL的制片人）叫他：“洛恩？”洛恩说：“你看一个人的眼睛就能知道他很多事情。”然后我拿了一块糖吃。洛恩看了看史蒂夫，面试就结束了。我觉得我没能通过糖果测试。
The ‘No’
落选
MARON If it panned out, my life would have been dramatically different. I wouldn’t be mildly obsessed with Lorne Michaels. I talk to people about Lorne because I’m hung up on it. I feel like I need to talk to him again to get some closure. [Laughs.]
马龙：如果当时我成功了，自己的人生轨迹较之现在一定有着戏剧性的改变。我就不会对洛恩·迈克尔斯略显耿耿于怀。我和别人会说起洛恩，因为不能释怀。我觉得我有必要重新和他聊聊，才能有个了结。（笑）
The ‘Maybe’
待定
SPADE I was staying at a Motel 6 when I got the call I was hired as a writer-performer. I told Rob [Schneider, then another new “SNL” hire]: “Wait, we’re writer-performers? I don’t want to be a writer.” He goes: “No, this is great. Chevy Chase was a writer.” I go: “I just want to be on it. I don’t know how to write sketches.” That’s where the stress started, and never stopped.
斯佩德：我当时住在6号汽车旅馆，接到电话通知我被录用为撰稿人兼演员。我和罗伯（罗伯·施奈德，Rob Schneider，是当年SNL招录的另一位新人）：说“等会儿，我们是‘撰稿人兼演员’啊？可我不想做撰稿人。”他说：“没事，这很好啊。切维·切斯当初就做过撰稿人。”我说：“我只是想演。我不会写段子。”然后压力就来了，从此就没消失过。
COLIN QUINN I got hired as a writer. [He later appeared on the show as a performer and “Weekend Update” anchor.] Maybe Lorne was like: I don’t see a great love affair between him and the audience, but I do see him maybe crouched in an office somewhere with whatever Mac they had in 1995. His spindly Irish fingers could probably ooze out a couple of sketches for us. Lorne actually said to me, “All you did [in your audition] was keep a couple more guys’ chances alive because you bombed so badly.”
科林·奎恩(COLIN QUINN)：我一开始被录用为撰稿人。（后来他在节目上出镜表演，作为“周末播报”板块的主持人）（“周末播报”[Weekend Update]为SNL的恶搞时事新闻板块——译注）。我估计洛恩觉得：我看他和观众之间产生不了什么火花，倒是可以抱着台当时1995年款的苹果电脑缩在办公室的哪个角落里，用他那细长的爱尔兰手指敲出几个好段子。洛恩当时和我实说：“你（试镜时）唯一的贡献就是让其他几个候选人的机会增大，因为你演得实在是惨不忍睹。”
The ‘Yes’
入选
FERRELL [Mr. Michaels] never really has a moment where he says, “So, welcome to the show.” He phrases it, “So, we’re bringing you to New York.” And I thought, God, another audition? And he goes, “Cheri’s going to be there, too.” And that’s when it hit me: Oh, my God. I got the gig. But I didn’t have a celebratory moment with him. Then I got self-conscious, like it came across that I didn’t care about getting the job. So I stood up real quick, and I’m like: “Well, gosh, thank you. I just want to shake your hand.” And he said, “Do whatever you have to do.”
法瑞尔：（迈克尔斯先生）自始至终也没有正式说过：“好，欢迎加入节目组。”他的原话是：“好，我们会安排你来纽约。”然后我想：天哪，又要来一次试镜啊？他接着说：“切里也会在。”然后我突然意识到：天哪，我入选了。但是和他始终也没有个庆祝的一刻。然后我感到有点不自在，怕让他觉得我对得到这份工作并不在乎似的。所以我就很快站起身来说：“哦，天哪，谢谢您！我特想和您握个手。”然后他说：“行，你随意。”
OTERI I waited for [Mr. Ferrell] outside, and we said nothing to each other. We held each other’s hands and walked to the parking lot and then jumped and let out the biggest scream in the world. We stopped at a restaurant and called our dads.
奥特莱：我在外头等（法瑞尔先生）。我俩一句话也没说。我们手拉手走到停车场，然后才跳起来，用最大的声音尖叫。我们在一家餐馆停下来分别给爸爸打电话。
HADER I knew I had been hired, and I knew that Andy [Samberg] had been hired. Then I get on the plane with him, and I’m acting like: “Hey, can you believe this? We’re going to be on ‘SNL.’ ” And Andy was like, “God, do you think it’s going to be both of us, or are they just going to pick one of us?” And I started to realize: “Oh, they haven’t told him yet. Do I tell him?” So I just sat there talking with him this whole plane ride, as he’s like, “What’s going on?” I knew, and it was awkward.
哈德尔：我当时已经知道我被选上了，我还知道安迪（安迪·萨姆伯格）也被选上了。然后我和他一起坐飞机，我话里话外的意思说：“哎，你能相信么，我们就要上SNL了！”然后安迪说：“唉，你说他们会让我俩都上，还是要二选一？”然后我才意识到：“噢，他们还没有告诉他呢！那我要不要告诉他？”所以一路上我就和他东扯西扯，他一直都在纳闷“到底怎么回事？”对，感觉特别尴尬。
ARMISEN That night everyone who auditioned went to dinner, and Marci Klein called me on my cellphone and said, “I think we’re going to make this work out.” I saved the number on this little Nokia phone as “Best Call Ever.”
阿米森：那天晚上所有参加试镜的人都一起出去吃饭。其间马尔西·克莱恩打电话给我说：“我们应该会选上你。”我在我那个小诺基亚手机上把这个电话号码存为“最好的来电”。
SHANNON I went from being a waitress to doing “Saturday Night Live.” I also went from doing these little stage shows, where I would cold-call people I met at my restaurants, making 500 calls to get 200 people to come to my live show. When I got “SNL.” I took my box of names and phone numbers and I threw it in the trash.
香侬：我从一名端盘子的女招待摇身一变成了《周六夜现场》的演员。在这之前我做那些很小型的舞台表演，给来过我餐厅吃饭的陌生客人打电话，打500通电话，能请到200个人来看我演出。当我被SNL选上后我抱着这个装满名字和电话的盒子，把它扔进了垃圾箱。
HADER I went from kindergarten to Harvard. I took the attitude of: I don’t really know this, so don’t try to pretend you know more than you do. At an after-party at my fourth season, Lorne said: “Hey, you know, you got the job. Relax. You can stay as long as you want. Have fun.”
哈德尔：我简直是从幼儿园出来直接上了哈佛。我采取的态度是：我不在行，所以就别不懂装懂。在我做了四季节目之后的庆祝派对上，洛恩跟我说：“你知道你已经得到了这份工作，是吧？放松嘛。你愿意在这里做多久就做多久。做得开心点儿！”