Malik Bendjelloul, a Swedish filmmaker who won the 2013 Academy Award for best documentary with his debut feature, “Searching for Sugar Man,” about a forgotten American balladeer who, unwittingly, had achieved fame halfway around the world, was found dead on Tuesday in Stockholm. He was 36.
瑞典导演马利克·本德让劳尔(Malik Bendjelloul)周二在斯德哥尔摩去世，年仅36岁。2013年他凭借自己的处女作《寻找小糖人》(Searching for Sugar Man)获得了奥斯卡最佳纪录片奖。该片讲述的是一位被遗忘的美国民谣歌手，他完全不知道自己在地球的另一端名声大噪。
The police there confirmed the death without stating a cause.
当地警察证实了他的死讯，但是没有说明死因。
A largely inexperienced filmmaker when he started the project, Mr. Bendjelloul edited “Searching for Sugar Man” in his Stockholm apartment and paid for most of it himself.
本德让劳尔开始拍摄这部影片时，基本上没有电影制作经验。他在斯德哥尔摩自己的寓所中剪辑《寻找小糖人》，而且自己支付了大半的费用。
The film tells the story of Sixto Rodriguez, a singer, songwriter and guitarist from Detroit who recorded two blues-tinged folk-rock albums under the single name Rodriguez in the early 1970s and then vanished from the music scene, a casualty of poor publicity and meager sales.
这部记录片讲述的是底特律歌手、词曲作者、吉他手西斯托·罗德里格斯(Sixto Rodriguez)的故事，他在20世纪70年代初以罗德里格斯的名字录制了两张布鲁斯风格的摇滚民谣专辑，由于缺乏宣传，专辑销售不佳，之后他从乐坛销声匿迹。
For decades he supported himself and three daughters doing manual labor, unaware that his music — songs of protest and hardscrabble life rendered in a heartfelt tenor — had resonated in South Africa, where opponents of apartheid especially admired his anthems of struggle.
几十年来，他靠干体力活养活自己和三个女儿，完全不知道他的音乐——以真诚的男高音演唱关于反抗和贫困生活的歌曲——在南非引起了共鸣，种族隔离的反对者特别欣赏他的那些奋斗颂歌。
The film takes its title from “Sugar Man,” a song about a drug dealer that appeared on Rodriguez’s 1970 album, “Cold Fact.”
这部纪录片的名字源自罗德里格斯1970年的专辑《冷酷的事实》(Cold Fact)中的一首关于毒贩的歌曲《小糖人》(Sugar Man)。
The film unearths Rodriguez’s tale in the manner of a detective story, telling of the search for information about the singer that had been started by an ardent fan, Stephen Segerman, a Cape Town record store owner.
这部电影用侦探故事的方式讲述了罗德里格斯的铁杆歌迷、开普敦的音像店老板斯蒂芬·塞格曼(Stephen Segerman)领头寻找这位歌手的过程。
Reviewing the film in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called it “a hugely appealing documentary about fans, faith and an enigmatic Age of Aquarius musician who burned bright and hopeful before disappearing.”
曼诺拉·达吉斯(Manohla Dargis)在《纽约时报》的影评中称它是一部“非常吸引人的纪录片，讲述了关于歌迷、信仰的故事，以及一位神秘的水瓶座时代音乐人如何在消失之前燃烧希望、放出光明”。
Mr. Bendjelloul was born in Ystad, Sweden, on Sept. 14, 1977. and grew up in Angelholm.
本德让劳尔1977年9月14日生于瑞典于斯塔德，在安格赫尔姆长大。
Published sources say that his father, Hacène Bendjelloul, was an Algerian doctor and that his mother, the former Veronica Schildt, was a translator and a painter. Information about survivors was not available.
已发布的消息称他的父亲阿塞恩·本德让劳尔(Hacène Bendjelloul)生前是一位阿尔及利亚医生，他的母亲原名维罗妮卡·希尔特(Veronica Schildt)，生前是翻译和画家。目前尚无关于他在世亲人的消息。
As a youth in the early 1990s, Malik appeared in a recurring role in the Swedish television series “Ebba and Didrik,” about siblings in a seaside village. (The director was his uncle.)
20世纪90年代初，马利克年少时，在瑞典电视连续剧《艾巴和迪德里克》(Ebba and Didrik)中扮演一个多次出现的配角，那部电视剧讲述的是住在一个海滨小村中的兄妹俩的故事（导演是马利克的舅舅）。
He studied journalism at the University of Kalmar (now Linnaeus University), and went on to make short documentary features for Swedish television featuring interviews with musicians like Björk and Elton John.
他在卡马尔大学（如今的林奈大学）学新闻学，后来为瑞典电视台制作短纪录片特写，主要是采访音乐人，包括比约克(Björk)和艾尔顿·约翰(Elton John)。
Restless, in 2006, he quit his job and traveled to Africa in search of a story for a movie of his own. In Cape Town he met Mr. Segerman, who in 1997 had created a website, The Great Rodriguez Hunt, hoping to gather information about the singer.
2006年，不满足于现状的他辞去工作，去非洲旅行，想找到一个故事，自己拍一部电影。他在开普敦遇到了塞格曼。塞格曼在1997年开创了网站“寻找伟大的罗德里格斯”(The Great Rodriguez Hunt)，希望能搜集到这位歌手的消息。
Ultimately, Mr. Bendjelloul was able to interview Mr. Rodriguez and tell the tale of the search in the film.
最终，本德让劳尔得以采访罗德里格斯，在电影中讲述了寻找的过程。