LOS ANGELES – Pushing to broaden its international readership – even if that means the occasional censored article — The Hollywood Reporter said on Tuesday that it had signed an expansive content deal with the Chinese online giant Tencent Holdings.
洛杉矶——为了扩大读者群，《好莱坞报道》(The Hollywood Reporter)周二宣布，已与中国网络巨头腾讯签订了一项全面的内容授权协议——尽管此举意味着文章会偶尔会受到审查。
Tencent, a leader in China for social networking and gaming, will pay The Reporter an undisclosed fee to license its entertainment trade news articles and videos.
腾讯是中国社交网络和游戏领域的领军者之一。它将获得《好莱坞报道》的娱乐行业新闻文章和视频内容，授权费用并未公布。
The Reporter and Tencent, which has hundreds of millions of monthly active users, said they also planned to collaborate in the creation of additional editorial content, including award show videos and celebrity news.
腾讯拥有上亿的月活跃用户。双方表示，还计划在新的原创内容上展开合作，包括制作颁奖礼视频和报道名人消息。
But there is a trade-off. The Reporter at times leans into the more tawdry end of celebrity news, and Tencent has the ability to block content.
不过，这里面存在一个取舍问题。《好莱坞报道》会不时涉及耸动的名人消息，而腾讯有权对内容进行审查。
Tencent “at times may not want to take our content for reasons of relevancy or appropriateness or whatever,” said John Amato, co-president of the entertainment division of Guggenheim Media, which owns The Reporter. “We’re certainly not going to change the way that we produce our content.”
腾讯“有时候可能因为相关性、适宜性或其他什么原因拿掉我们的内容，”《好莱坞报道》母公司古根海姆媒体集团(Guggenheim Media)娱乐部门的联合总裁约翰·阿马托 (John Amato)说。“我们肯定不会改变自己制作内容的方式。”
Tencent has been making deals with American media companies at a steady clip, including a partnership with Time Warner to stream HBO television shows and a separate agreement with Warner Music Group.
腾讯在有条不紊地与美国媒体公司进行交易，包括与时代华纳(Time Warner)达成合作，在网上播放HBO的一些电视节目。此外，它还与华纳音乐集团(Warner Music Group)签署了协议。
The Reporter has journalists in Hong Kong who contribute to its weekly magazine and website, but until now most Chinese readers have had “minimal exposure” to the publication, Mr. Amato said.
《好莱坞报道》拥有驻香港的记者，为其周刊和网站进行报道。不过，按照阿马托的说法，迄今为止多数中国读者对该杂志的“接触极为有限”。
Fueled by the Academy Awards, which came a month earlier this year, The Reporter’s website attracted a record 17 million unique visitors in February, up from 10.9 million in February 2014, according to comScore. (Second-place Variety had 11.4 million, up from 5 million.)
根据comScore公布的数据，受到一个月前的奥斯卡颁奖礼的带动，《好莱坞报道》的网站在今年2月吸引了创纪录的1700万独立访客，而2014年2月的数据为1090万。（位居第二位的是拥有1140万访客的《综艺》[Variety]，其去年同期的数据为500万。）
“It’s crucial for us expand internationally, where the growth of the box office and the increasing importance of American television is big news,” Mr. Amato said.
“进行国际扩展对我们来说至关重要。在全球市场上，美国影视的票房增长及重要性的提高是一大新闻，”阿马托说。