“Downton Abbey” has become event television.
《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)已经成为一部现象级的剧集。
The proof is in the ratings for the show’s fourth-season premiere on Sunday, which not only set a record for the series, with 10.2 million viewers, but also further confirmed “Downton” as a major player in what has become a golden age for drama on television.
上述结论的证据是，《唐顿庄园》周日在美国播出的第四季首集吸引了1020万观众。这不仅创下了该剧开播以来的收视纪录，而且进一步巩固了《唐顿庄园》的地位：它已经成为当今剧情片黄金时代的一大主角。
The audience for the “Downton Abbey” premiere on PBS was almost exactly the same size as that for the series finale of “Breaking Bad” on AMC, this season’s most-talked-about episode of television drama. That finale averaged 10.3 million viewers. (In both cases, the figures are for only the audiences who watched the episodes the nights they were on; the numbers grow significantly when delayed viewing is counted.)
在PBS上播放的《唐顿庄园》新一季首集，在收视率上与AMC的《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)大结局相差无几。后者是本季最为热门的剧情片单集，平均观看人数达1030万。（两者的收视数据都仅包括首播当晚的观看人数，如果加上看重播的观众，总数还要大得多。）
The “Downton” audience was also virtually the same as that for this season’s premiere of “Scandal,” the hot drama on ABC (10.5 million).
《唐顿庄园》的收视人数基本上也和ABC热门剧集《丑闻》(Scandal)本季首播的收视人数（1050万人）持平。
“Downton” easily topped a host of television’s most celebrated cable dramas in terms of viewership. “Mad Men” on AMC had 3.4 million viewers for its most recent premiere. “Game of Thrones” on HBO had 4.4 million for its initial airing. The recent season finale of “Homeland” on Showtime had 2.4 million viewers.
《唐顿庄园》在收视率上轻松击败了有线电视台的诸多知名剧情片。AMC的《广告狂人》(Mad Men)最新一季首播的观看人数为340万人，HBO电视台《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)首播的观看人数则为440万。在Showtime上播出的《国土安全》(Homeland)最近一季大结局吸引了240万观众。
“Downton” fits into the same category as those shows in several respects. It is a serial drama, runs each season for a limited number of episodes and benefits from binge watching. In the case of “Downton,” viewers are able to catch up on previous seasons on Amazon Prime. (They had been available on Netflix until this past July.)
《唐顿庄园》与上述剧集在很多方面都属同类。它们均为系列剧，每季有固定集数，其成功都得益于人们能一口气狂看。《唐顿庄园》的前几季可以在Amazon Prime上补看。（去年7月前，则是在Netflix网站上。）
The success of “Downton Abbey” continues to grow, despite the fact that the events of each season can easily be learned in advance. The season is broadcast in the fall on British television. PBS, however, continues to resist synchronizing with the British airing.
尽管每一季的剧情都可以轻松地提前获知，《唐顿庄园》仍节节胜利。最新一季已经于去年秋天在英国上映，然而PBS仍然拒绝与英国的播放时间同步。
The PBS president, Paula Kerger, has defended that decision, saying “Downton” has become a “post-holiday tradition” for fans in the United States. Gareth Neame, one of the show’s executive producers, said in a recent conversation that maintaining this schedule helps the series because it means that “Downton” avoids facing the fusillade of broadcast network premieres in the fall.
PBS的总裁葆拉·克格(Paula Kerger)为这一决定进行了辩护。她说，对于美国的剧迷来说，《唐顿庄园》已经成为“假日季后的传统”。该剧的执行制片之一加雷斯·尼姆(Gareth Neame)最近在一次对话活动中说，保留这一安排对剧集有益，因为这意味着《唐顿庄园》避开了秋季几大电视网剧集回归的高峰。
The success of “Downton” has not gone unnoticed by the rest of the television business. NBC has already signed Julian Fellowes, who writes every episode of “Downton,” to create a series for American television, a drama to be set in New York in the 1880s.
《唐顿庄园》的成功还引发了电视业同仁的瞩目。NBC已经签下了《唐顿庄园》的唯一编剧朱利安·费洛斯(Julian Fellowes)，请他写一部美国剧情片，背景是19世纪80年代的纽约。
Mr. Fellowes said in a recent interview that he will write only the pilot for the NBC show before returning to write the fifth season of “Downton.”
费洛斯最近接受采访时说，他会先为NBC的这部剧写试播集，然后继续编写《唐顿庄园》第五季的剧本。