Promotional video clips were hardly unknown when Bob Dylan released “Like a Rolling Stone” as a single in 1965, but Mr. Dylan never made one for the song. Now Columbia, his record label, is making up for that oversight with a newly produced web video for the song, mainly to promote “The Complete Album Collection, Volume 1,” a 47-CD set that includes all of Mr. Dylan’s studio albums, six live sets and a two-disc rarities compilation. But in the process, the company is redefining the way promotional clips are viewed.
1965年，鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)发行单曲《像一块滚石》(Like a Rolling Stone)的时候，音乐宣传剪辑片已经广为人知，但迪伦从没有为这首歌拍过宣传片。如今他所在的哥伦比亚(Columbia)唱片公司为这首歌制作了一部新的网络音乐录像，弥补了这个遗憾。该录像主要是为了宣传《全集，第一部》(The Complete Album Collection, Volume 1)，共计47张CD，包括迪伦的全部录音室专辑、6张现场专辑和两张罕见曲目合集。但在这个过程中，哥伦比亚公司重新定义了宣传片的观看方式。
Usually, you sit back and watch. If they’re by a performer you collect, you may go to some effort to obtain a copy. But Columbia’s new “Like a Rolling Stone,” which went live on Mr. Dylan’s website on Tuesday morning, demands not to be played so much as played with.
平时，看宣传片只要坐下来看就够了。如果你收集这个艺术家的作品，可能还会花点力气去收藏一份宣传片。但哥伦比亚的新版《像一块滚石》不仅可以播放，还能让你跟着一起玩。该宣传片于周二（11月19日）上午开始在迪伦的官网上播放。
The clip, produced by Interlude, a digital media and interactive video technology company, includes 16 separate video tracks, each either a television show (like “The Price Is Right,” “Pawn Stars” or a BBC news show), others lightly disguised parodies of shows, films or cable networks.
该片由数码媒体与互动录像技术公司Interlude制作，其中包括了16段单独的录像，每一段要么是“好价钱”(The Price Is Right)、“典当之星”(Pawn Stars)或BBC新闻这样的电视节目；要么是对电视节目、电影或有线电视节目稍作修改的戏仿之作。
Using the up and down arrows on a computer keyboard, or controls to the left of the clip itself, you can channel surf, changing the program at will. Celebrities — among them, the comedians Drew Carey and Marc Maron, the actor Simon Rex and the rapper Danny Brown — are seen on the various tracks mouthing the words to the song.
使用电脑键盘上的上下箭头键，或用影片屏幕左边的控制菜单，观众可以随心所欲地换台，在不同节目之间切换。喜剧演员德鲁·凯里(Drew Carey)和马克·马龙(Marc Maron)、影星西蒙·雷克斯(Simon Rex)及饶舌歌手丹尼·布朗(Danny Brown)等名人都在片中不同频道出现，对口型唱这首歌。
But, you may be asking, what if you just want to see Dylan singing his biggest hit? You can. Among the 16 channels is a video of Mr. Dylan performing the song live in 1966, although the video is cut to match the somewhat brisker studio recording, which is heard on the clip’s soundtrack.
不过你要问了，如果我想看迪伦本人唱这首他最有名的歌怎么办？没问题，在这16个频道里，有一个就是迪伦本人在1966年的现场演出这首歌，不过为适应宣传片中用来做音轨的录音室版本，这个现场录像经过了剪辑，因为录音室版本要轻快活泼一点。