Harry Potter’s favorite band was a wizard group called the Weird Sisters, while his creator, J. K. Rowling, has said her own favorite band was the Beatles.
哈利·波特(Harry Potter)最喜欢的乐队是一个名叫“古怪姊妹”的巫师组合，而他的缔造者J·K·罗琳(J. K. Rowling)则说自己最心爱的乐队是“披头士”(Beatles)。
A very different sort of rock group, Blue Oyster Cult — once called “the thinking-man’s heavy-metal band” — supplies the soundtrack to Ms. Rowling’s latest novel, “Career of Evil,” written under the pen name Robert Galbraith, and starring her ace detective team of Cormoran Strike and Robin Ellacott.
然而，为罗琳最新的小说《邪恶的事业》(Career of Evil)充当了背景音乐的，则是风格迥异，曾被称为“思想家的重金属乐队”的“蓝色牡蛎膜拜乐队”(Blue Oyster Cult)。这本书是罗琳以笔名罗伯特·加尔布雷思推出的，主角是她的王牌侦探团队，考莫伦·斯特莱克(Cormoran Strike)和罗宾·艾拉科特(Robin Ellacott)。
The novel is a heavy-handed — and often grisly — tale about a serial killer, who likes to slice up his victims and cut off body parts as trophies; and many chapters start with a quotation from some of Blue Oyster Cult’s more portentous, doom-laden lyrics about death or pain or “dreadful knowledge.” Even the novel’s title comes from the band’s song of the same name, with lyrics by Patti Smith.
小说是一个关于连环杀手的重口味故事，时常都让人觉得恐怖，这个杀手喜欢把受害者切成片，切掉部分肢体作为战利品；很多章节都以“蓝色牡蛎膜拜乐队”充满不祥之兆，歌唱死亡、痛苦或“阴郁的知识”的压抑歌词作为开头。小说的名字也是来自这支乐队的同名歌曲，歌词是帕蒂·史密斯(Patti Smith)写的。
By far the most compelling elements in Ms. Rowling’s first two Galbraith novels (“The Cuckoo’s Calling” and “The Silkworm”) were its detective heroes — Strike, the rumpled war veteran who is part hard-boiled tough guy and part logical-minded Sherlock; and Robin, his plucky assistant who proves to be just as tenacious and brainy as he is. This odd couple turned out to be just as captivating a pair of gumshoes as Nick and Nora of “Thin Man” fame, and Mikael Blomkvist and Lisbeth Salander from “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.” And those earlier Galbraith novels underscored how carefully Ms. Rowling had studied the detective story genre — much as she’d inhaled a vast range of literature from Tolkien to Homer to Milton in creating her dazzling saga of Harry Potter.
罗琳以加尔布雷思这个笔名推出的前两部小说分别是《布谷鸟的呼唤》(The Cuckoo’s Calling)和《蚕》(The Silkworm)，它们当中最精彩的部分还要算是两位侦探主角――斯特莱克，邋里邋遢的退伍老兵，半是冷峻硬汉，半是擅长推理的福尔摩斯；还有斯特莱克勇敢的助手罗宾，被证明和他一样坚强聪明。这对奇怪的搭档就像“瘦子”(Thin Man)系列里的尼克和诺拉(Nick and Nora)，还有《龙纹身的女孩》(The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo)里的米克尔·布隆克维斯特(Mikael Blomkvist)与莉丝贝丝·沙兰德(Lisbeth Salander)一样，是迷人的天生一对。“加尔布雷思”的前两部小说中就已经突显出，罗琳曾经悉心研究过侦探类型小说，正如她曾经广泛研究从托尔金(Tolkien)到荷马(Homer)到弥尔顿(Milton)在内的大量文学作品，从而创造出令人目眩的哈利·波特传奇。
Strike and Robin are just as magnetic as ever in “Career of Evil,” but Ms. Rowling, alas, has plopped them into a story line that feels like a halfhearted recycling of episodes from “Law & Order: Special Victims Unit” and “CSI: Crime Scene Investigation.” The result is a lurid and predictable novel — not as disappointing as Ms. Rowling’s first post-Harry Potter venture, “The Casual Vacancy,” but only because of Robin and Strike.
在《恶魔的事业》中，斯特莱克和罗宾还是那么吸引人，但——唉——罗琳为他们设计的故事线有点像从《法律与秩序：特殊受害者》(Law & Order: Special Victims Unit)或《犯罪现场调查》(CSI: Crime Scene Investigation)里随便捡回来重新利用的。其结果就是一本惊悚但又不出人意料的小说。好在有有罗宾和斯特莱克，所以它才没有像罗琳在“哈利·波特”系列完结后出版的第一本小说《偶发空缺》(The Casual Vacancy)那么让人失望。
Things get off to a fast, if overly blunt start with Robin receiving a package containing a woman’s severed leg, and a note quoting some sinister Blue Oyster Cult lyrics (“A harvest of limbs, of arms and of legs …”). The story soon snowballs into a London-wide hunt for a serial killer billed in the tabloids as “a 21st-century Jack the Ripper.” There are twisty story lines involving rape, child molestation, wife beating, prostitution and drug abuse, and there are lots of gruesome scenes featuring murder, maiming and mutilation — some written from the killer’s point of view. Some of these scenes are so contrived and sensationalistic that the reader wonders if Ms. Rowling was actually trying to send up thriller and horror genre clichés — perhaps echoing Blue Oyster Cult’s penchant for using tongue-in-cheek humor to satirize heavy-metal tropes and conventions.
事态的开端非常迅速、甚至是过于直白了，罗宾收到一个包裹，里面是一个女人被切下来的腿，附着的便条上是“蓝色牡蛎膜拜乐队”邪恶的歌词（“肢体的丰收，胳膊和腿……”）。故事很快发展为对一名连环杀手的全伦敦大搜捕，小报上说他是“21世纪的开膛手杰克”。此外还另有几条曲折的故事线，涉及强奸、猥亵儿童、打老婆、卖淫和吸毒；有很多关于谋杀、致残和截肢的可怕景象，其中一些是通过杀手的视角写的。有些场面过于做作和哗众取宠，读者忍不住要怀疑罗琳是不是在刻意取笑惊悚与恐怖类型小说中的陈词滥调——正如“蓝色牡蛎膜拜乐队”喜欢用玩笑幽默讽刺重金属音乐当中常用的隐喻和习惯。
Strike — who had been in the military police’s Special Investigation Branch before becoming a private investigator — quickly comes to suspect that the killer who sent Robin the leg is one of three “twisted individuals who’ve all got good reason to hate my guts.” One is Jeff Whittaker, his sadistic stepfather, who was acquitted of murdering Strike’s mother. Another is Donald Laing, “a clever, devious animal; a sociopath” who violently assaulted his wife and was sentenced to 16 years in prison based on Strike’s evidence. And the third is Noel Brockbank, a serial pedophile, who sexually assaulted his stepdaughter and who’s managed to elude justice despite Strike’s best efforts.
斯特莱克在成为私家侦探之前曾经在军警的特别调查部门工作过，他很快怀疑，那个给罗宾送来断腿的杀手是三个“性格扭曲，有理由对我恨之入骨的人”中的其中一位。一个是他的虐待狂继父杰夫·惠特台卡(Jeff Whittaker)，曾被指控杀害了斯特莱克的母亲；还有一个是唐纳德·莱恩(Donald Laing)，“一个聪明狡猾的动物，反社会分子”，他曾经暴力攻击自己的妻子，因为斯特莱克的证词，被判入狱16年。第三个人是尼尔·布洛克班(Noel Brockbank)，一个恋童癖惯犯，他曾经性侵自己的继女，尽管斯特莱克尽了最大努力，他还是逃脱了法律的制裁。
Each of these men could be said to have a “career of evil,” but they’re all a lot less interesting than Voldemort in “Harry Potter.” (The song “Career of Evil” was reportedly inspired by a 19th-century poem, “Les Chants de Maldoror,” about a Voldemort-like figure opposed to God and humanity.) These three suspects represent no existential challenge, no larger-than-life threat. They’re not even interesting as case studies in Muggle psychology, since their evil deeds have less to do with circumstances or choices they’ve made than with the fact that they’re all sickos. As a consequence, the suspense that powers this novel stems not from the mystery of the killer’s identity but from Ms. Rowling’s instinctive sense of storytelling and her wise decision to give readers frequent glimpses into Strike and Robin’s inner lives.
这三个人都可以说干过“邪恶的事业”，但他们远不如《哈利·波特》里的伏地魔那么有趣。《邪恶的事业》这首歌据说是受19世纪一首名叫《马尔多罗之歌》(Les Chants de Maldoror)的诗歌启发写下来的，主角正是一个反对上帝与人性的伏地魔式人物。这三个嫌疑人都不构成什么生死攸关的挑战，也并非什么了不得的威胁。他们甚至算不上麻瓜心理学的有趣研究对象，因为他们的恶行与环境和自己的选择关系不大，主要还是因为他们本身就是病态的人。因此，推动小说的悬念不是来自杀手的神秘身份，而是来自罗琳讲故事的本能，以及她如何聪明地让读者经常看到斯特莱克与罗宾的内心生活。
This is one of the many gifts Ms. Rowling brought to the Harry Potter novels — an ability to delve more and more deeply into her characters’ back stories (and the emotional fallout of past events), even as she pushed her larger narratives forward. And in “Career of Evil,” she begins filling in the outlines of Robin and Strike, fleshing out the conflicts, secrets and anxieties that inform their identities — and the traumatic memories set off by the serial killer case they’re now working on.
这也是罗琳在哈利·波特系列中显示的天赋之一，她可以一边推进长篇叙事，一边渐渐深入角色的背景故事，并展现过去的事情对他们情感的影响。在《邪恶的事业》中，她开始令罗宾和斯特莱克的形象丰满起来，生动具体地写出塑造了二人个性的冲突、秘密和焦虑，以及眼前这个连环杀手的案子如何勾起他们的创伤回忆。
The son of a famous rock musician and his groupie girlfriend, Strike emerges as a man still haunted by his harrowing childhood — when he was constantly facing off against the violent Whittaker — and by his military posting in Afghanistan, where one of his legs was blown off. With his detective business floundering and his romance with a wealthy beauty turning stale, Strike finds himself at another crossroads. As does Robin, who is worried about proving her worth as a business partner to Strike, and who is getting cold feet about her approaching wedding to her boring yuppie fiancé, Matthew.
斯特莱克是一位著名摇滚歌手和其骨肉皮女友生下的儿子，儿时的他要经常反抗惠特台卡的暴力，痛苦的童年依然不时困扰着他；在阿富汗的军旅生涯里他被炸飞了一条腿，这也带给他创伤。随着侦探事业陷入僵局，和一个富有美女的恋爱也走向终点，斯特莱克发现自己再度面临人生的十字路口。而作为斯特莱克商业伙伴的罗宾总想证明自己的价值，在嫁给乏味的雅皮未婚夫马修之前临阵脱逃。
Robin is the real star of this novel — as spirited, resourceful and vulnerable as one of the heroines in a Shakespeare comedy — and readers cannot help but root for her and Strike to finally fall for each other. Their developing relationship propels this novel toward its conclusion, but can’t, in the end, make up for its tired, rickety and all too generic plot.
罗宾是这本书真正的明星，她像莎士比亚喜剧中的女主人公们一样生机勃勃，足智多谋而又带点脆弱，读者会情不自禁地希望她和斯特莱克能够终成眷属。两人日益发展的关系推动着小说走向结局，但到头来依然不能弥补小说本身的乏味、松散，以及平庸的情节。