MOSCOW — Tatiana Samoilova, a movie star who was known in the Soviet Union for her beauty and strong-willed performances but who remained virtually unknown in the West because the Soviet authorities would not let her work there, died here on Sunday, her 80th birthday.
莫斯科——电影明星塔季扬娜·萨莫伊洛娃(Tatiana Samoilova)在周日80岁生日时去世（5月4日——译注）。她在苏联时期以美貌和意志坚强的表演而闻名，但是在西方国家却几乎无人知晓，因为苏联政府不允许她去西方国家工作。
Her brother, Alexei Samoilov, said that the cause was complications of heart and lung ailments.
她的弟弟阿列克谢·萨莫伊洛娃(Alexei Samoilov)说死因是心肺疾病并发症。
Ms. Samoilova, whose doe-eyed, dark-haired screen presence drew comparisons to that of Audrey Hepburn, reached her acting pinnacle in the role of a young woman who loses her fiancé in World War II in Mikhail Kalatozov’s 1957 film “The Cranes Are Flying.” In 1958 it won the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival, and it remains the only Soviet or Russian film to have done so.
萨莫伊洛娃有一双天真无邪的眼睛和一头乌发，因此她的银幕形象经常被拿来与奥黛丽·赫本(Audrey Hepburn)相比较。她事业的巅峰是在米哈伊尔·卡拉托佐夫(Mikhail Kalatozov)1957年导演的电影《雁南飞》(The Cranes Are Flying)中扮演一位年轻女子，她的未婚夫在“二战”中死去。1958年，这部电影在戛纳电影节上获得金棕榈奖，是唯一一部获得该奖项的苏联或俄罗斯电影。
Soviet officials allowed Ms. Samoilova to attend the festival, where she received a special prize, but they did not let her work in the West.
苏联官员允许萨莫伊洛娃参加该电影节，领取特别奖，但是不允许她在西方国家工作。
In her later years, Ms. Samoilova spoke often of how bureaucrats had determined her fate. In a recent interview, published posthumously in 7 Days, a popular Russian television guide, she recalled the grand future envisioned for her by Pablo Picasso, whom she met during the Parisian leg of her Cannes trip.
萨莫伊洛娃在晚年经常提起官僚主义如何决定了她的命运。她去世后，俄罗斯畅销电视节目指南《七天》(7 Days)发表了前不久对她的采访。她在采访中回忆说，她在前往戛纳领奖途中在巴黎遇到了巴勃罗·毕加索(Pablo Picasso)，毕加索展望了她的辉煌前途。
“I remember,” she said, “this amazing person said to me: ‘Today you walk along the boulevard and no one knows you. But tomorrow you will be driving in a car through Hollywood.’ And his prediction almost came true! Already at the festival, Gérard Philipe gave me a watch as a gift and invited me to star in ‘Anna Karenina’ with him. Can you imagine how dazzled I was by the prospect? I thought: ‘Well, it’s begun!’ But my return to the U.S.S.R. brought me back down to earth.”
“我记得，”她说，“这个不同凡响的人对我说：‘今天你走在大街上，没人认识你。但是明天你将驾车在好莱坞奔驰。’ 他的预言差一点变成现实！在电影节上，杰拉德·菲利普(Gérard Philipe)送给我一块手表做礼物，邀请我和他一起主演《安娜·卡列尼娜》(Anna Karenina)。你能想象这样的前景多么让我兴奋吗？我当时想：‘呃，好运开始了！’ 但是我一回到苏联，希望全落空了。”
Studio officials said she could not appear in the film because she was still a student, and they warned her of Hollywood’s loose morals.
电影厂的管理人员说她不能出演那部电影，因为她还是个学生，他们还警告她说好莱坞道德败坏。
Ms. Samoilova went on to play Anna Karenina in a 1967 Soviet film adaptation of that Tolstoy novel, but first, instead of going to Hollywood, she was ordered to star in “Letter Never Sent,” also directed by Kalatozov, about four geologists whose search for diamonds in Siberia takes a tragic turn after they are caught in a forest fire.
后来，萨莫伊洛娃在1967年根据托尔斯泰(Tolstoy)的这部小说改编的苏联电影中扮演了安娜·卡列尼娜。但是在那之前，她没能去成好莱坞，而是接受命令主演卡拉托佐夫导演的另一部电影《未寄出的信》(Letter Never Sent)。那部电影讲述的是在西伯利亚寻找钻石的四位地质学家遭遇了一场森林大火，命运发生了悲剧性的转变。
Tatiana Yevgenyevna Samoilova was born in Leningrad on May 4, 1934. Her father, Yevgeny Samoilov, was a well-known stage and film actor. As a child, she moved to Moscow with her family and studied ballet there before focusing on acting.
塔季扬娜·耶夫钦耶夫娜·萨莫伊洛娃(Tatiana Yevgenyevna Samoilova)1934年5月4日出生于列宁格勒。她的父亲耶夫钦尼·萨莫伊洛夫(Yevgeny Samoilov)是一位知名戏剧、电影演员。她儿时随家人搬到莫斯科，先是学习芭蕾舞，后来专注于表演。
For Ms. Samoilova, roles dried up in the 1980s. After 1991, she occasionally appeared in films and on television, including in a mini-series about Stalin’s Russia based on Vassily Aksyonov’s family saga “Generations of Winter.”
萨莫伊洛娃的作品在20世纪80年代逐渐减少。1991年后，她偶尔出现在电影和电视中，包括根据瓦西里·阿克肖诺夫(Vassily Aksyonov)的家族传奇《冬去冬又来》(Generations of Winter)改编的关于斯大林统治下的苏联的迷你连续剧。
Ms. Samoilova was married four times. Besides her brother, she is survived by a son from her third marriage, Dmitri Samoilov, who lives in the United States, and a granddaughter.
萨莫伊洛娃结过四次婚。除了弟弟，她在世的亲人还有在第三次婚姻中生的儿子德米特里·萨莫伊洛夫(Dmitri Samoilov)和一个孙女，他们住在美国。
At her funeral on Wednesday, fellow actors, directors and other artists spoke of her artistic gift. But several also spoke of the difficult lives of elderly actors in Russia, including Ms. Samoilova, whose financial status did not reflect the acclaim and revenues they had earned for the Soviet state.
在周三的丧礼上，她的同辈演员、导演和其他艺术家提到了她的艺术天赋。但是有几个人也提到了俄罗斯老艺术家们艰难的生活，包括萨莫伊洛娃。他们的经济地位不能反映他们为苏联赢得的荣誉和收入。
“It is shameful to speak of this at her coffin, but she didn’t have money,” said Iosif Kobzon, a singer who is a member of the Russian Parliament. “It’s shameful how cultural figures are treated.”
“在她的灵柩旁谈论此事真是丢脸，但是她没有钱，”歌手、俄罗斯议员约瑟夫·科布宗(Iosif Kobzon)说，“让文化名人遭受这样的待遇，真是可耻。”