Lena Dunham and “Girls” can have Brooklyn. In “Tiny Times 2,” the writer and director Guo Jingming continues his adaptation of his coming-of-age trilogy about four young women, besties at least from high school, as they make their way in today’s careerist, consumerist Shanghai. “Sisterhood is powerful,” it turns out, translates easily to Mandarin.
布鲁克林或许属于莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)和《绯闻女孩》(Girls)。而在《小时代2》中，编剧兼导演郭敬明继续改编自己的成长三部曲小说，讲述四个从中学起就是好朋友的年轻女人在当今这个野心勃勃、物欲横流的上海，寻找自己道路的故事。“姐妹情有力量”，这句话似乎很容易被翻译成普通话。
The first “Tiny Times” introduced Lily (Amber Kuo), the sleek, wealthy, all-business mama hen; Nan Xiang (Bea Hayden), the multitalented artist; Ruby, the chubby, man-hungry one (Hsieh Yi-lin); and Lin Xiao (Mini Yang), the narrator and “regular” girl. Sort of a young “Sex and the City” without the sex. (The city, though, may be the sex, a dazzling Oz of gleaming architecture and luxury brands.)
《小时代》第一部推出了四个女主角：时髦、富有、全能妈妈一样的顾里（郭采洁饰）；多才多艺的艺术家南湘（郭碧婷饰）；胖乎乎又花痴的唐宛如（谢依霖饰），以及叙事者，“普通”女孩林萧（杨幂饰，英文名Mini Yang——译注）。有点像年轻版、无性版的《欲望都市》（不过《小时代》里的都市可能就等于性，它如同一个令人眼花缭乱的奥兹国，充满光彩熠熠的建筑和奢侈品牌）。
“Tiny Times” borrowed heavily from “The Devil Wears Prada,” with Lin Xiao proving herself as an intern for a demanding fashion magazine editor; the twist is that her boss is a man, Gong Ming (Rhydian Vaughan), à la the Mr. Big of Carrie Bradshaw’s acquaintance, except he looks like Tom Cruise.
《小时代》对《穿普拉达的女魔头》(The Devil Wears Prada)借鉴颇多，比如林萧就是在一个要求很高的时尚杂志编辑手下当实习生，并证明了自己；不同之处是，她的上司是个男人，名叫宫洺（凤小岳饰），有点像凯莉·布拉德肖(Carrie Bradshaw)的“大先生”(Mr. Big)，只不过这个人物长得更像汤姆·克鲁斯(Tom Cruise)。
The first installment did so well in China this summer that Mr. Guo expedited the sequel’s release. Starting as the four graduate from college, this episode is a soap opera of betrayals and breakups, misunderstandings and forgiveness, disease and death, boardroom politics and corporate takeovers. You know, the 20s.
该片第一部今年夏天在中国票房极佳，因此郭敬明提前发行了这部续作。这一集里，四位主角已从大学毕业，上演了一部关于背叛与分手、误会与原谅、疾病与死亡、董事会会议室政治与公司收购的肥皂剧。20多岁的人就是这样，你懂的。
As entertainment, this is vintage potboiler fare. But the movie is also revealing as fantasy, an artifact of 21st-century China’s youth culture transfixed by its rising fortunes and Western ways.
作为娱乐片，它是一部颇有特色的粗制滥造之作。但是，这部影片同时也呈现出一种幻想，是结合了崛起的财富与西方生活方式的21世纪中国青年文化产物。