BEIJING — Amid the usual crop of Western-imported blockbuster fare (see “Jurassic Park 3D,” “Monsters University,” “Pacific Rim”), two homegrown movies about four fashion-obsessed girlfriends at a Shanghai university have unexpectedly made their way to the top of China’s box office here this summer.
北京——今年夏天，在西方进口大片（如《侏罗纪公园3D版》[Jurassic Park 3D]、《怪兽大学》[Monsters University]、《环太平洋》[Pacific Rim]）通常会斩获巨额票房的季节，两部中国国产电影出人意料地过关斩将，成为中国电影市场的票房冠军。这两部影片讲述的是上海一所大学里，四个醉心时尚的闺蜜的故事。
The first, “Tiny Times 1,” beat Hollywood’s “Man of Steel” when it opened here in late June, grossing more than $43 million its first week, according to Entgroup, a film industry research company. The sequel, “Tiny Times 2,” which opened on Aug. 8, grossed more than $47 million in its first three weeks. (“Tiny Times 1” opened in select North American markets in July, and its sequel opened in New York on Friday.) Ticket sales for both movies qualified them as major hits in China.
根据电影行业研究机构艺恩咨询的数据，其中的第一部《小时代1》于今年6月底在中国公映时，首周即获得超过4300万美元（约合2.63亿元人民币）的票房，击败了《超人：钢铁之躯》(Man of Steel)。其续集《小时代2》于今年8月8日公映后，前三周就获得了超过4700万美元的票房。（《小时代1》于7月在北美地区一些选定的市场上映，其续集已于周五在纽约上映。）以这样的票房收入，这两部电影在中国已经称得上热门大片了。
But the films, made by the fledgling director Guo Jingming and based on his series of best-selling novels, have also made an impact beyond the box office. They have become a lightning rod for this nation’s evolving view of its growing youth culture. Many established Chinese cultural commentators are outraged by these works’ overt celebration of materialism, and this anger has spurred a surprisingly robust counterattack by the movies’ many young fans.
然而，这两部由初出茅庐的导演郭敬明，根据自己的畅销系列小说拍摄的电影，在斩获票房之外还产生了其他影响。这两部电影也成了评论的焦点，反映了中国人对本国不断发展的青年文化日益演变的看法。许多知名的中国文化评论人，对这两部作品公然崇尚物质主义的态度感到愤怒。他们的愤怒遭到了出人意料的强烈反击，反击来自影片的许多年轻粉丝。
Film critics have described the first movie as being like “The Devil Wears Prada” meets “Sex and the City” (without the sex). The Chinese critic Raymond Zhou denounced “Tiny Times” in The Beijing Evening News and in a subsequent appearance on the China Central Television show “Crossover,” faulting its undercurrent of “crass” materialism and “bad taste.” The New York-based media scholar Ying Zhu, writing with Frances Hisgen in The Atlantic online in an article widely cited in China, condemned the film’s “twisted male narcissism.”
影评人把第一部形容成类似于《穿普拉达的女魔头》(The Devil Wears Prada)和《欲望都市》(Sex and the City)相遇混搭而成的东西，不过这部电影中并没有性。中国影评人周黎明在《北京晚报》上抨击《小时代》，随后在中央电视台的脱口秀节目《海客谈》(Crossover)露面时，再次抨击了《小时代》，他斥责影片中充斥着“极端的”拜金主义潜流和“恶俗的品味”。纽约的媒体学者朱影和弗朗西丝·希斯根(Frances Hisgen)在《大西洋月刊》(The Atlantic)网站上发表的一篇文章中，指责了影片中“男性扭曲的自恋”，这篇文章在中国被广泛地引用。
Others leapt to the defense of both movie and maker. The Global Times editor Hu Xijin called Mr. Guo “superman,” while the critic Teng Jimeng, speaking on “Crossover,” lauded “Tiny Times” as a “feminist film.” The People’s Daily jumped into the scrum with a package of three articles that offered varying assessments of the movie, followed later by a fourth that was largely critical.
还有一些人迫不及待地站出来，为这部影片及其创作者辩护。《环球时报》主编胡锡进称郭敬明是“超人”，评论人腾继萌在《海客谈》发言时，盛赞《小时代》是一部“女性主义电影”。《人民日报》迅速加入混战，抛出了三篇文章，对电影作出了观点各异的评价，之后又发表了以批评为主的第四篇文章。
Meanwhile, Mr. Guo’s fans, primarily young and female, have rallied with the fervor of groupies, inundating critics like Mr. Zhou with tens of thousands of condemnatory online posts and flocking to theaters.
与此同时，郭敬明的粉丝和狂热的追星族联手，用数以万计的指责网贴，淹没了周黎明这样的批评者。这些以年轻女性为主的粉丝还涌入影院观影。
“The controversy is bigger than I anticipated,” Mr. Guo said.
郭敬明说，“争议比我预期的要大。”
His books are stuffed with English-language brand names like Chanel and Gucci and choice phrases. (“Economy class kills me!” and “I hate Beijing!”) His films show the actual designer goods and include dialogue that has also riled commentators, like this exchange in “Tiny Times 1” between two star-crossed young lovers:
他的书里充斥着各种品牌的英文名字，比如Chanel和Gucci；还有惹人不满的字句。（“我坐经济舱会死的！”和“我恨北京！”）他的影片中不仅展示了特别设计的名牌产品，还包括同样让评论人恼火的对白，比如在《小时代1》里，一对不走运的恋人之间的对白就是一个例子：
“I like you,” the young man says, “not because you’ve had a driver since you were little, and not because you have designer bags, and definitely not because you gave me expensive boots. Even if you didn’t have a cent, I would still like you.”
年轻男子说，“我并不是因为你从小就有宝马车接送而喜欢你，也不是因为你的LV包包而喜欢你，更不是因为你送了我D&G的靴子而喜欢你。就算你没有一分钱，我也喜欢你。”
The woman then turns on him: “Let me tell you, love without materialism is just a pile of sand!”
女子回答道：“别幼稚了，没有物质的爱情就是一盘散沙。”
The movies are “like a product-placement commercial,” said the opera and film director Chen Shi-Zheng, whose credits include the Chinese version of “High School Musical.” “But Guo Jingming is a brand for Chinese youth.”
戏剧及电影导演陈士争说，这部电影“就像植入式商业广告”。不过，“郭敬明是中国年轻人的一个品牌”。陈士争拍摄过的影片包括中国版的《歌舞青春》(High School Musical)。
Mr. Guo’s films spotlight the growing cultural influence of social and economic shifts brought about by longstanding government policy, namely the success of China’s urbanization effort, which has increased the urban population to 53 percent today, from 19 percent in 1979. This shift has created a vast new cohort that can afford cultural experiences like movie theaters: China has more than 13,000 film screens, according to the Xinhua news service, with new ones added in 2012 at a rate of 10.5 a day. The demographic change is leading moviemakers and other cultural content providers to start catering to the tastes of these “new urbanites,” which often differ from those of longtime residents of major cities.
郭敬明的电影突显出，政府长期推行的政策所催生的社会和经济转变，对文化产生了越来越大的影响，这种转变就是中国城市化举措的成功。城市化举措已经把中国的城镇人口比例从1979年的19%，增加到了目前的53%。这种转变创造了一个规模巨大的新群体，他们的消费水平能负担得起去电影院看电影这样的文化体验。据新华社报道，中国有1.3万多块电影银幕，2012年，银幕数量还在以每天10.5块的速度增加。人口构成的变化，导致电影人和其他文化内容提供者开始迎合这些“新都市人”的品味，他们的品味往往与在大城市长期居住的居民不同。
The franchise also reflects how wealth has become such a standard measure of value. Many articles about “Tiny Times” note Mr. Guo’s ranking on the Chinese Writers Rich List — he topped it in 2011 and came in fourth in 2012 — without a trace of irony.
《小时代》系列电影还反映出，财富已经在很大程度上成为价值的衡量标准。许多涉及《小时代》的文章指出了郭敬明在“中国作家富豪榜”上的排名，而且字里行间毫无嘲讽的意味——他在2011年的榜单上位居榜首，在2012年位列第四。
“Everything is measured by money,” Mr. Chen said. “Thirty years ago, we had ideology, but now people are brought up with materialism. Consumer culture is what’s valuable to them. Maybe some day, they’ll come back to the meaning of life.”
陈士争说，“所有东西都由钱来衡量。三十年前，我们有意识形态，可是现在，人们伴随着物质主义长大。对他们来说，只有消费文化是有价值的。也许有一天，他们会回归生活的本义。”
In Mr. Chen’s view, much of the controversy over “Tiny Times” stems from the comparative newness of youth culture in China. “People don’t know how to take it,” he said. “China is catching up with the rest of the world.” Since China has about 450 million people under the age of 25, and the average age of a moviegoer here is 21.2, this catching up is likely to be fast.
按照陈士争的观点，《小时代》引发的大部分争议，都源于青年文化在中国相对较新的状态。“人们不知道该如何对待它，”他说。“中国正在追赶全球其他国家。中国大约有4.5亿人口的年龄低于25岁，而中国观影群体的平均年龄是21.2岁，考虑到这些原因，追赶很可能是飞速的。”
The 30-year-old Mr. Guo seems ideally placed to understand new urbanites because he is one. Born to a middle-class family in Zigong, Sichuan, he moved to Shanghai when he won the New Concept Writing Competition in 2001. He attended college and wrote a novel in his spare time. His book, “City of Fantasy,” sold more than 1.5 million copies. In 2004, Mr. Guo, still a student, followed up with a second novel, which sold 600,000 copies its first month.
现年30岁的郭敬明似乎占据了理解新都市人的理想位置，因为他也是一名新都市人。他出生在四川自贡的一个中产家庭，2001年，他赢得了新概念作文大赛的冠军，并来到上海。他上了大学，在课余时间写了一部小说。他的作品《幻城》卖出了150多万册。2004年，还是学生的郭敬明接着出版了第二部小说，上市的第一个月，这部小说就卖出了60万册。
Scandal erupted, however, when he was accused of plagiarism; in 2006, a court ruled that the second book shared major plot elements and other similarities with another author’s work and ordered Mr. Guo to pay damages. He did so, albeit without apologizing or acknowledging error, and was castigated in the Chinese press.
然而，丑闻爆发了，他被指控剽窃。2006年，一家法院判决，他的第二本书在情节和其他方面与另一名作者的作品相似，并责令郭敬明支付赔偿。他支付了赔款，并受到中国媒体的严厉指责，然而他既没有道歉，也没有承认错误。
The incident, though, did little to harm his career. His 2007 novel, about a pregnant high school student who kills herself, sold a million copies in 10 days. Mr. Guo then wrote the “Tiny Times” series, which includes a third book; became an editor at Changjiang Literature and Art Publishing House; and founded a magazine to publish other young novelists. Today, he has a publishing and entertainment empire that includes ZUI Book and the magazines ZUI Fiction, ZUI Novel, and ZUI Comic. (ZUI stands for “zestful, unique, ideal.”)
不过，这起事件几乎没让他的事业受到丝毫损害。他2007年出版的小说在上市的头十天里就卖出了100万册，这本小说写的是一名怀孕的高中女生自杀的故事。郭敬明后来撰写了由三本书组成的《小时代》系列作品；成了长江文艺出版社的编辑；创办了一本杂志，用来刊登其他年轻小说家的作品。今天，他经营着一个横跨出版业和娱乐业的帝国，囊括了最世文化发展有限公司和《最幻想》、《最小说》、《最漫画》杂志。“最”(ZUI)代表着“热情”(zestful)、“独特”(unique)、“理想”(ideal)。
“I never thought this movie would lead to so much discussion,” Mr. Guo said. “But this state of affairs in which everyone can explain his own viewpoint is good.”
郭敬明说，“我从来没有想过，这部电影会引发如此多的争论。不过，每个人都能就这件事情发表自己的看法，这种情况不错。”
Jo Lusby, the managing director of Penguin North Asia, who has worked with Mr. Guo on several projects, said, “It takes an awful lot of courage to do this.” She added, “It’s not a given that these won’t be censored,” referring to the movies. “There are no easy choices in China. Everything has risks.”
企鹅出版集团北亚区董事总经理周海伦(Jo Lusby)曾与郭敬明合作过几个项目，她说，“拍摄这些影片需要极大的勇气。”她还说，“并不能确定它们不会受到审查。”她指的是这两部影片。“在中国，没有什么选择是容易的。所有事都有风险。”
Mr. Guo said he had studied the “technically useful comments” about his filmmaking, but “when it comes to ‘Tiny Times,’ the work itself, I feel that I will stick with my own ideas.” He added, “After all, I am the person who best understands ‘Tiny Times.’ ”
郭敬明说，他研究了对他的电影制作“实际上有益的评论”，不过，他补充说，“说到《小时代》这部作品本身，我觉得我会坚持自己的理念。不管怎么说，我是最了解《小时代》的人。”
The debate is not over: “Tiny Times 3” is due out next year.
争论还没有结束，因为《小时代3》将在明年上映。