“Life in space is impossible.” That stark statement of scientific fact is one of the first things to appear on screen in “Gravity,” but before long, it is contradicted, or at least complicated. As our eyes (from behind 3-D glasses) adjust to the vast darkness, illuminated by streaks of sunlight refracted through the Earth’s atmosphere, we detect movement that is recognizably human and hear familiar voices. Those tiny figures bouncing around on that floating contraption — it looks like a mobile suspended from a child’s bedroom ceiling — are people. Scientists. Astronauts. Movie stars. (Sandra Bullock and George Clooney in spacesuits, as Mission Specialist Ryan Stone and Mission Commander Matt Kowalski; Ed Harris, unseen and unnamed, as “Houston” down below).
“太空生活真是不可思议。”这个对科学事实的朴素陈述是《地心引力》的最初几句台词，但不久后，这句话就变得自相矛盾，至少也是变得复杂起来。我们（戴着3-D眼镜）的眼睛在慢慢调整，适应屏幕上无边的黑暗被地球大气折射的光束照亮，我们发现屏幕上出现的显然是人类的动作，耳边听到熟悉的声音。这些小小的身影在漂浮的装置上（有点像孩子卧室天花板垂挂下来的装饰品）跳来跳去，他们是人，科学家、宇航员、电影明星。桑德拉·布洛克(Sandra Bullock)和乔治·克鲁尼(George Clooney)穿着太空服，饰演任务专家瑞安·斯通(Ryan Stone)和任务指挥官马特·科沃斯基(Matt Kowalski)；艾德·哈里斯(Ed Harris)没有出镜，也没有名字，饰演地面的“休斯敦”。
The defiance of impossibility is this movie’s theme and its reason for being. But the main challenge facing the director, Alfonso Cuarón (who wrote the script with his son Jonás), is not visualizing the unimaginable so much as overcoming the audience’s assumption that we’ve seen it all before. After more than 50 years, space travel has lost some of its luster, and movies are partly to blame for our jadedness. It has been a long time since a filmmaker conjured the awe of “2001: A Space Odyssey” or the terror of “Alien” or captured afresh the spooky wonder of a trip outside our native atmosphere.
影片剧本由导演阿方索·卡隆(Alfonso Cuarón)与儿子霍纳斯(Jonás)合写，其主题和意义是对“不可能”的反抗。片中卡隆需要把难以想象的场面具体呈现出来，超越“这一套我们都见过”的观众预期，然而这还不是他所面对的最大挑战。经过50多年之后，太空旅行已经有些黯然失色，部分原因或许是电影让我们见怪不怪。已经很久没有什么导演能唤起《2001：太空漫游》(2001: A Space Odyssey)给人带来的敬畏，抑或《异形》(Alien)所带来的恐怖，又或者重新抓住人们对外太空旅行莫名的好奇。
Mr. Cuarón succeeds by tethering almost unfathomably complex techniques — both digital and analog — to a simple narrative. “Gravity” is less a science-fiction spectacle than a Jack London tale in orbit. The usual genre baggage has been jettisoned: there are no predatory extraterrestrials, no pompous flights of allegory, no extravagant pseudo-epic gestures. Instead, there is a swift and buoyant story of the struggle for survival in terrible, rapidly changing circumstances. Cosmic questions about our place in the universe are not so much avoided as subordinated to more pressing practical concerns. How do you outrun a storm of debris? Launch a landing module without fuel? Decipher an instruction manual in Russian or Chinese?
卡隆成功地把近乎高深莫测的复杂技术（既有数码的，也有模拟的）限制在简单的叙事之内。《地心引力》不像科幻奇观，更像是发生在太空轨道中的杰克·伦敦(Jack London)式故事。常见的类型套路被丢弃，这里没有掠夺成性的外星人，没有浮华的寓言式飞行，也没有铺陈的伪史诗姿态；只有一个迅捷轻快的故事，讲述在迅速变化的可怕环境中如何为求生而斗争。我们的星球在宇宙中的地位这样的宏大宇宙问题与其说被避免了，倒不如说是从属于更迫切的实际问题。怎样逃出宇宙残骸风暴？怎样在没有燃料的情况下发射登陆舱？怎样破译用俄文或中文写的技术手册？
It has recently been observed that not all of the film’s answers to these questions are strictly accurate. The course that Stone and Kowalski plot from the Hubble Space Telescope to the International Space Station would apparently not be feasible in real life. (On the other hand, I was relieved to learn that a fire extinguisher really can serve as a makeshift zero-G jetpack. Not a spoiler, just a word to the wise.) Surely, though, the standard for a movie like this one is not realism but coherence. Every true outlaw has a code. The laws of physics are no exception, and Mr. Cuarón violates them with ingenious and exuberant rigor.
直到最近，人们才认识到电影中对这类问题的回答并不都那么准确无误。斯通与科沃斯基从哈勃太空望远镜到太空站做计划的过程在现实生活中显然是不可能的。另一方面，我如释重负地发现灭火器居然还可以充当失重状态下的临时发动机组件（这不是剧透，只是点到为止而已）。当然，对于这种电影来说，我们要求的不是真实性，而是前后一致。所有不合法则的事都有自己的一套准则。物理法则也不例外，卡隆对物理法则的违背经过了精心设计，非常严密。
The accidental explosion of a communications satellite silences Houston and, what’s worse, sends a blizzard of shrapnel hurtling toward the astronauts. Quite a bit goes wrong. Straps connecting astronauts to the relative security of their spacecraft are severed. Parachute lines foul engines. Fires break out inside vessels, and stuff outside is smashed to pieces. Not everyone survives. All of it — terrifyingly and marvelously — evades summary and confounds expectations. You have to see it to believe it.
一颗通讯卫星意外爆炸，令休斯敦失声，更糟的是，爆炸导致了大量碎片冲向宇航员们。出了很多故障。宇航员们同太空船连接的安全索断了。降落伞的绳索缠住了机器。飞船内部出现爆炸，外面的人被炸得粉碎。不是所有人都能生还。这一切都是那么可怕而不可思议，无法概述，搅乱了观众事先的预期。你得亲眼去看才能相信。
And what you see (through the exquisitely observant lenses of the great cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki) defies easy description. Stone and Kowalski’s orbital path is perched between the inky infinite and the green, cloud-swept face of home. The perspective is dazzling and jarring, and Mr. Cuarón allows a few moments of quiet, contemplative beauty to punctuate the busy, desperate activity of staying alive. Kowalski, generally an irreverent joker, pauses to savor the sun over the Ganges, and you may find yourself picking out other geographical details. Look, there’s Italy, and the Nile Valley. These reference points are as unsettling as they are reassuring, because they are glimpsed from a vantage point that is newly and profoundly alien.
通过杰出的摄影师艾曼努尔·卢贝兹基(Emmanuel Lubezki)极度敏锐的镜头，你会看到言语难以描述的奇观。斯通与科沃斯基的太空漂浮路线介于黑暗的无尽太空与白云环绕的绿色家园之间。这幅远景令人目眩而又对比鲜明。卡隆展现了几个宁静而富于沉思的美好时刻，夹杂在忙碌绝望的求生挣扎之间。科沃斯基平时不恭不敬，嬉皮笑脸，却停下来欣赏太阳照耀在恒河上的景象，你会发现自己也注意到了其他地理上的细节。看，这儿是意大利，这儿是尼罗河谷。这些参照物既令人不安，又令人感到宽慰，因为这是从一个全新而又极度陌生的好位置观看的。
That sense of estrangement owes a lot to Mr. Cuarón’s use of 3-D, which surpasses even what James Cameron accomplished in the flight sequences of “Avatar.” More than that film (and more than “Hugo” or “How to Train Your Dragon” or any other high-quality recent specimens), “Gravity” treats 3-D as essential to the information it wants to share. The reason for that is summed up in the title, which names an obvious missing element. Nothing in the movie — not hand tools or chess pieces, human bodies or cruise-ship-size space stations — rests within a stable vertical or horizontal plane. Neither does the movie itself, which in a little more than 90 minutes rewrites the rules of cinema as we have known them.
这种疏离感主要是因为卡隆采取了3-D技术，甚至超越了詹姆斯·卡梅隆(James Cameron)在《阿凡达》(Avatar)中的飞行系列镜头。比《阿凡达》乃至《雨果》(Hugo)和《驯龙记》(How to Train Your Dragon)等近期高质量的典范影片都强的是，《地心引力》把3-D技术作为呈现信息的必要元素。原因就在本文的题目之中——天地之间，显然就是人。片中的一切——手动工具和象棋棋子，人类的身体和巡航舰大小的太空站——都不是放置在稳定的垂直或水平平面上。影片本身也是如此，它在90多分钟的时间里重新书写了我们所熟悉的电影规则。
But maybe not quite all of them, come to think of it. The script is, at times, weighed down by some heavy screenwriting clichés. Some are minor, like the fuel gauge that reads full until the glass is tapped, causing the arrow to drop. More cringe-inducing is the tragic back story stapled to Stone, a doctor on her first trip into orbit. We would care about her even without the haunting memory of a dead child, who inspires a maudlin monologue and a flight of orchestral bathos in Steven Price’s otherwise canny and haunting score.
但是再一想，它似乎也没有颠覆全部规则。剧本有时也被大量陈词滥调所拖累。有些小问题，比如燃料量计本来显示是满的，玻璃一震动，指针就降下来了。更煽情的是斯通过去的悲惨故事，她是个医生，这是她第一次太空旅行。关于死去孩子的回忆困扰着她，引发出一段伤感的独白和管弦乐乐段——是史蒂文·普莱斯(Steven Price)创作，这段音乐倒是巧妙而令人难忘。其实就算没有这段回忆，我们也会关注她的。
I will confess that the first time I saw “Gravity,” I found its talkiness annoying. Not just Ms. Bullock’s perky-anxious soliloquizing, but also Mr. Clooney’s gruff, regular-guy wisecracking. Doesn’t Stone say her favorite thing about space is the silence?
我得承认，第一次看《地心引力》时，我觉得它对白太多，让人讨厌。不仅是布洛克急躁焦虑的独白，还有克鲁尼生硬平凡的俏皮话。斯通不是说她最喜欢太空的寂静吗？
But a second viewing changed my mind a bit. It’s not that the dialogue improved — it will not be anyone’s favorite part of the movie — but rather that its relation to that silence became clearer. Stone and Kowalski jabber on, to themselves and each other and to Houston “in the blind,” partly to keep the terror of their situation at bay, to fight the overwhelming sense of how tiny and insignificant they are in the cosmos.
但是第二次观看稍微让我改变了一点看法。不是因为对话有所改善——任何人都不会对这部影片的对话情有独钟——而是因为这些对话与“寂静”之间的关系变得更加清晰。斯通和科沃斯基急促兴奋地说话，有时是自言自语，有时是互相交谈，也有时是和休斯敦“盲目”地说话，有部分原因是为了缓解他们所处环境的恐怖，战胜身处宇宙那种压倒性的渺小无力之感。
This assertion of identity is ridiculous and also, for that very reason, affecting. For all of Mr. Cuarón’s formal wizardry and pictorial grandeur, he is a humanist at heart. Much as “Gravity” revels in the giddy, scary thrill of weightlessness, it is, finally, about the longing to be pulled back down onto the crowded, watery sphere where life is tedious, complicated, sad and possible.
这种对身份的强调很可笑，但正因为同样的原因，也十分感人。卡隆虽然拍出了大量魔法般的图像化奇观，内心深处，他其实是个人文主义者。《地心引力》对失重状态下令人晕眩的可怕战栗津津乐道，但最终它还是讲述对于回归这个星球的渴望，这里遍布着海洋与人群，生活既单调又复杂，既悲伤，又充满合理性。