As dramatic entrances go, it didn’t lag far behind that of Venus emerging from the foam.
从隆重登场的角度讲，它不亚于维纳斯从海上升起。
On Monday, Vanity Fair magazine, revealing at last a tightly guarded exclusive, introduced the world to Caitlyn Jenner, the transgender Olympian formerly known as Bruce, and gave her the kind of old-style Hollywood glamour treatment that ingénues pine for: a high fashion (if soft focus) Annie Leibovitz cover shoot with the star spilling out of a form-fitting satin corset.
周一，《名利场》杂志(Vanity Fair)终于揭开了一条严格保密的独家新闻，向全世界介绍凯特琳·詹纳(Caitlyn Jenner，金·卡戴珊继父——编著)——她原名布鲁斯(Bruce)，曾是奥运会选手，进行了变性手术——给她提供了初入社交界的少女所渴望的那种老式好莱坞名人待遇：在安妮·莱博维茨(Annie Leibovitz)拍摄的高级时尚封面上（用柔焦就更像了），她身穿贴合身体曲线的缎面紧身胸衣亮相。
And tasked with outfitting a newly minted glamour girl for the big moment was the magazine’s fashion and style director, Jessica Diehl, an industry veteran who styles most of the magazine’s cover stars but nevertheless found the prospect “completely petrifying,” she said.
负责给这位新出炉的迷人姑娘为这一重要时刻着装的是该杂志的时装造型总监杰西卡·迪尔(Jessica Diehl)，她是时尚界的老将，该杂志封面明星的大部分造型都是她设计的，不过她说，这项任务让她“完全不知所措”。
Part of the challenge was to present Ms. Jenner as the woman she has long wanted to be. “It was really about finding out from Caitlyn what this all means to her,” Ms. Diehl said by phone on Tuesday. “We talked a lot about what could work in real life, how she sees herself.”
这项任务的一个难点在于把詹纳塑造成她自己一直想成为的女人。“最重要的是从凯特琳身上找出这对她的重要意义，”周二，迪尔在电话采访中说，“我们谈论了很多在现实生活中可行的方案以及她对自己的看法。”
They talked icons and inspirations: all-American chic, classic rather than flashy. Ms. Diehl brought photos of Lauren Bacall and Jackie Kennedy to a preshoot discussion with Ms. Jenner. Ms. Diehl wanted to present a range of options and price points. Ms. Jenner may yet have the opportunity to be swathed in couture for a glossy’s pages, but Ms. Diehl made sure she had some cost-effective Diane von Furstenberg looks on hand, too.
她们谈论偶像和灵感：最具美国特色的时尚和经典，而非艳俗。在拍摄前与詹纳的讨论中，迪尔展示了劳伦·巴考尔(Lauren Bacall)和杰姬·肯尼迪(Jackie Kennedy)的照片。迪尔想展示各种选择和价位。在杂志的铜版纸内页上，詹纳也许有机会穿上高级定制服装，但是迪尔也确保她拥有一些物有所值的黛安·冯芙丝汀宝(Diane von Furstenberg)服装。
The bigger parts of the challenge were the logistics of working largely around the usual protocols. At the magazine, only a “skeleton group” knew of the shoot. (That skeleton crew numbered around 10, Ms. Diehl said; she told the rest of her team they were shooting Barbra Streisand.)
这项任务更大的挑战在于，拍摄服装主要不是通过杂志社的常规手段获得。该杂志社只有“很少一部分人”知道这次拍摄（迪尔说，大概只有十个人知道。她对自己团队里不知情的人说，他们在为芭芭拉·史翠珊[Barbra Streisand]拍照）。
Typically, fashion editors will borrow clothing directly from brands; in this case, because of the need for secrecy, Ms. Diehl largely resorted to shopping. She scoured Bergdorf’s and Barneys, Max Mara and Tom Ford, Michael Kors and DVF, working with Ms. Jenner’s measurements in mind. What couldn’t be sourced in store was sought online. “Online was actually a great boon for us in terms of finding sizing,” Ms. Diehl said.
时尚编辑们通常直接从时装品牌公司借服装，但是这次，由于保密需要，迪尔主要是自己购买。她在波道夫百货公司(Bergdorf’s)、巴尼斯百货公司(Barneys)以及麦丝玛拉(Max Mara)、汤姆·福特(Tom Ford)、迈克·高仕(Michael Kors)和黛安·冯芙丝汀宝(DVF)等专卖店搜寻符合詹纳尺寸的服装。在实体店找不到的话，就在网上找。“从寻找合适尺寸的角度讲，网店对我们来说的确是个福音，”迪尔说。
Ah, yes: the particular difficulty of getting bustiers and ball gowns for a woman who stands 6-foot-2.
啊，是的：对一个身高6.2英尺（约合1.89米）的女人来说，寻找紧身胸衣和舞会礼服尤为困难。
“We all know that a tall woman at 6-2 is not sample size,” Ms. Diehl said. (“I feel ladies don’t ever like to talk about their size, so I would have to defer on that,” she said when asked what size Ms. Jenner is.)
“我们都知道6.2英尺不是女人的常见身高，”迪尔说（当被问及詹妮的身体尺寸时说，迪尔说“我觉得女士们从来都不喜欢谈论自己的尺寸，所以我必须保密”）。
Most of the women Ms. Diehl is called on to dress — say, Jennifer Lawrence, whom Ms. Diehl once accessorized with only fine jewelry and a live Colombian red-tailed boa constrictor — are smaller. But, Ms. Diehl said, “the one thing that makes it easier to dress someone is proportion. Caitlyn’s proportions are fashion proportions, really. She’s tall, slim, narrow hipped: kind of ideal to dress.”
迪尔的造型对象大多是身材更小巧的女性，比如詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)，迪尔曾经只用高级珠宝和一条哥伦比亚红尾活蟒蛇做劳伦斯的配饰。但是，迪尔说，“身材比例是是否易于着装的唯一因素。凯特琳的比例真的是时尚比例。她高挑纤细，髋部较窄，是着装的理想身材。”
Ms. Diehl had not tried the options on so much as a stand-in before a fitting with Ms. Jenner the day before the shoot, but found that everything she brought fit. “That actually never happens to me,” she said. “The physique is really extraordinary. We should all be decathletes.”
在拍摄前一天詹纳试衣前，迪尔并没有太多作为替身试穿那些衣服，但是结果发现她选的服装都合适。“我真的从没遇到过这种情况，”她说，“那种体形真的太棒了。我们都应该成为十项全能运动员。”
The shoot itself, which took place over several days at Ms. Jenner’s home in Malibu, Calif., was a feat of seamless leak-proofing. “There were no cellphones,” Ms. Diehl said. “They were all in a box. There was nothing.”
拍摄在加利福尼亚州马利布詹纳的家中进行，持续了几天，其间完全保密。“现场没有手机，”迪尔说，“手机都放在一个盒子里。其他什么也没有。”
Vanity Fair also had to forgo its usual outdoor locations, set pieces and props. “Luckily, she has some pretty fierce cars, just in the driveway,” Ms. Diehl said. “We didn’t have to go anywhere.” Ms. Jenner wore a cherry-red jersey-and-mesh Donna Karan dress in a color-coordinating 2011 Porsche 911 GT3 RS.
《名利场》杂志还必须放弃它常用的户外拍摄地点、布景和道具。“幸运的是，她有一些非常彪悍的汽车，就停在私人车道上，”迪尔说，“我们哪儿也不用去。”詹纳身穿唐娜·卡兰(Donna Karan)樱桃红针织网眼连衣裙，坐在颜色与之相配的2011款保时捷911 GT3 RS里。
That dress, like a few other pieces in the shoot, were sourced with the help of the brands, though never with any indication of the celebrity being dressed. Vanity Fair’s usual procedure, several fashion executives said, is cloak-and-dagger, and the prospect of appearing in the issue justifies any perceived risk.
和拍摄时使用的其他几件衣服一样，那件连衣裙是在时装品牌的帮助下找到的，不过完全没提是要为哪位名人着装。几家时装公司的高管说，《名利场》的程序通常是保密的，不过，只要最终可能出现在杂志上，任何潜在的风险都值得。
Victor De Vita, the senior manager for global communications and marketing at Zac Posen, sent an off-the-shoulder gown without asking who might wear it, and didn’t know it had been used until he saw the photos, with the rest of the world, on Monday morning. Mr. Posen said in a statement that he was “very proud to be included in the roster of chosen designers for such a historic moment captured by the iconic Annie Leibovitz.”
扎克·波森(Zac Posen)的全球沟通与市场推广高级经理维克多·德·维塔(Victor De Vita)送来一件露肩礼服，没有询问谁会穿它。直到周一早上，他和世人一起看到照片，才知道这件衣服得以采用。波森在一项声明中说，“能在偶像人物安妮·莱博维茨拍摄这一历史性时刻时被选中，我感到非常自豪”。
Likewise, Aliza Licht, the senior vice president for global communications at Donna Karan, helped Ms. Diehl track down the Donna Karan dress from the company’s South Coast Plaza store in Costa Mesa, Calif., without any idea whom it was for. Ms. Jenner ended up loving it, and got to keep it, a gift from the magazine.
同样地，唐娜·卡兰的全球沟通高级副总裁阿莉扎·利希特(Aliza Licht)帮助迪尔在该公司的加州科斯塔梅萨南海岸广场(South Coast Plaza)店寻找连衣裙时，也完全不知道是给谁选的。结果詹纳很喜欢那件连衣裙，打算把它留下，作为该杂志的礼物。
That’s a testament to Ms. Jenner’s happiness with her new look. “That was probably, to me, the most important thing, that Caitlyn feels good about everything,” said Ms. Diehl, who described Ms. Jenner as a partner and collaborator.
那是詹纳对自己新形象满意的证明。“对我来说，最重要的很可能是凯特琳对一切都满意，”迪尔说。迪尔说詹纳非常合作，是个好搭档。
“There would have been no way that I would’ve persuaded Caitlyn in a moment like this — which I can sometimes do, persuade an actress to wear something that I really want her to wear,” Ms. Diehl said. “This was not the moment for that.”
“在这种时刻，我绝不可能劝凯特琳穿什么衣服。有时我会劝某位女演员穿某件我真的很想让她穿的衣服，”迪尔说，“但是这次不行。”