PARIS — At about 9:10 on Monday evening, laughter and a round of applause broke out among the surviving staff members of Charlie Hebdo, followed shortly by cries — joyous if ironic — of “Allahu akbar!”
巴黎——周一晚上大约9点10分，《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的幸存人员中爆发出笑声和掌声，紧接着有人快活而讽刺地高呼：“真主至大！”
The group was cheering Rénald Luzier, the cartoonist known as Luz, who on the umpteenth try had produced what the editors thought was the perfect cover image for the most anticipated issue ever of this scrappy, iconoclastic weekly, which will appear on Wednesday. It showed a figure of the prophet Muhammad holding a sign saying, “Je suis Charlie” (“I am Charlie”), with the words “All is forgiven” in French above it on a green background.
赢得这群人喝彩的是漫画家雷纳德·吕齐埃(Rénald Luzier)，笔名吕兹(Luz)。他在经过无数次尝试后，完成了将于本周三面市的最新一期《查理周报》的封面图片，编辑们认为它非常完美。《查理周报》是一份好斗、颠覆传统的报纸，它的最新一期备受万众期待。在这幅封面图片中，先知穆罕默德举着一块“我是查理”(Je suis Charlie)的牌子，其上方是“一切皆被宽恕”的法语，背景为绿色。
“Habemus a front page,” Gérard Biard, one of the paper’s top editors, said with a smile, emerging from the staff’s makeshift newsroom and deploying the phrase used to announce a new pope. To find the right image, “We asked ourselves: ‘What do we want to say? What should we say? And in what way?’ ” Mr. Biard said. “About the subject, unfortunately, we had no doubt.”
“我们有头版了，”在该报的临时编辑部，高级编辑热拉尔·比亚尔(Gérard Biard)微笑着说。他使用了拉丁语单词Habemus，那是用来宣布新教皇产生的词语。为了找到合适的图片，“我们问自己：‘我们究竟想说什么？我们应该怎么说？采取什么样的方式？’”比亚尔说。“但是对于主题，我们毫无犹疑。”
Since Friday, just two days after gunmen had slaughtered 12 people at the paper, about 25 members of the staff had been huddled in the offices of the left-wing daily Libération, under heavy police protection, to work on the next issue. They were still in shock, and confounded to have suddenly become heroes of free speech to the same political and religious establishments they had long mocked.
上周五，枪手在该报办公室屠杀了12人，仅仅两天之后，大约25名报社员工，就挤进了左翼报纸《解放报》(Libération)的办公室，在大批警察的保护下，制作新的一期周报。他们仍然处于震惊之中，而且有点摸不着头脑，因为被他们长期嘲笑的那些政治和宗教权威，突然把他们奉为了言论自由的英雄。
As the journalists wrestled with grief, there were flashes of mordant humor. Cartoonists sketched while describing how hard it was to go on after the horror in their offices; others lashed out in anger at the killers. The main question looming over the moment: How could they possibly be funny at a time like this?
记者们努力在悲伤中振作，也表露出了一丝丝辛辣的幽默。漫画家一边绘制图片，一边讲诉在报社办公室遭受恐怖袭击之后，继续工作有多么困难；其他人则表达了对杀人凶手的怒火。此时的主要问题是：他们怎么可能在这样的时候搞笑？
“We don’t know how to do anything but laugh,” said Mr. Biard, who was on vacation the day of the shootings.
“除了笑之外，我们别的事情都不知道该怎么做，”比亚尔说。枪击案发生当天他在度假。
Worldwide, the massacre has set off debates about security lapses, Islamic radicalism and turning points. Millions of supporters have embraced the slogan “I am Charlie.” But here, in a top-floor conference room with a stunning view of the Eiffel Tower, this was just a bunch of cartoonists and journalists: crying, snacking, laughing, breaking the rules against smoking indoors and trying to hold themselves together long enough to produce an issue.
这起屠杀已经在全世界掀起了有关安全纰漏、伊斯兰激进主义和转折点的争论。数以百万计的支持者喊出了“我是查理”的口号。但在这里，一间饱览埃菲尔铁塔美景的顶楼会议室里，只有一群漫画家和记者，他们哭泣、吃零食、大笑，还打破了室内不准吸烟的规矩，努力集中精神，做出新的一期周报。
Their first editorial meeting last Friday began not with article pitches but with remembrances for murdered colleagues, updates on the wounded and a surprise visit by Prime Minister Manuel Valls and Fleur Pellerin, the culture and communication minister — rare appearances at a newspaper more akin to The Onion than to Le Monde (and more likely to skewer those officials than interview them).
在上周五的第一次编辑会议上，他们最开始没有报选题，而是回忆了遇难的同事，谈论受伤者的最新消息。法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)和文化部长弗勒尔·佩尔兰(Fleur Pellerin)也意外到访，实属罕见。——毕竟这家报纸更接近《洋葱报》(The Onion)而非《世界报》(Le Monde)，政客到这里更有可能遭到无情讽刺，而不是被采访。
“We decided that we would do a normal edition, not a memorial issue,” Mr. Biard said on Friday, where an emotional three-hour staff meeting had just ended. Caterers brought in trays of smoked salmon, sandwiches and cream-filled desserts. A row of plainclothes police officers stood watch outside. Journalists hovered. Five desktop computers donated by Le Monde were set up on a round glass table. Since the attacks, financial donations have been pouring in to the financially troubled publication, and a fund has been set up, jaidecharlie.fr (“I help Charlie”).
“我们决定做一期常规版，而不是纪念版，”比亚尔上周五表示。当时，三个小时情绪起伏的员工会议刚刚结束。膳食供应商送来了熏鲑鱼、三明治和奶油甜点。一排便衣警察在外面执勤，记者们走来走去。一张圆形玻璃桌上摆放着《世界报》捐赠的五台台式电脑。在遇袭之后，这家存在财务困难的报社获得了大量捐款，一个名为jaidecharlie.fr（“我帮查理”）的基金也成立了起来。
As the newsroom sprang to life on Friday afternoon, Mr. Biard reflected. “They killed people who drew cartoon characters. That’s it. That’s all these guys do. If they’re afraid of that,” what’s their god?, he asked, inserting an expletive for emphasis.
上周五下午，编辑部重新运转了起来，比亚尔思忖道，“他们把画漫画形象的人杀掉了。就是这样。这是关键。如果他们害怕这个，”那他们的神是什么呢？他问道，还用一句脏话以示强调。
The logistics of putting out the paper were tricky. It had to file court requests to recover material from its office, now sealed off as a crime scene. With the help of Libération, Charlie Hebdo will print three million copies of the issue, compared with its usual 60,000 copies. The paper was also expected to be translated into several languages.
新一期周报的制作在资料方面遇到了一些麻烦。因为办公室已经成为犯罪现场，被警方封锁，他们不得不向法院提出书面申请，从那里取出资料。《查理周报》通常发行6万份，在《解放报》的帮助下，新的一期将印刷300万份，而且预计将会被翻译成多种语言。
One idea was clear: keeping the staff members’ memories alive by publishing past work. The paper will run drawings by the four cartoonists killed: Stéphane Charbonnier, known as Charb, the paper’s editor; Jean Cabut, known as Cabu; Bernard Verlhac, known as Tignous; and Georges Wolinski. They also planned to honor other victims, running work by Bernard Maris, an economist, and Elsa Cayat, a psychiatrist, who both wrote columns, and perhaps publishing an unedited column for Mustapha Ourrad, a copy editor.
新一期周报的主题很明确：刊登逝者过去的作品，让他们显得音容宛在。其中包括四位遇难漫画家的画作：周报主编斯特凡纳·沙博尼耶(Stéphane Charbonnier)，笔名沙博(Charb)，让·卡比(Jean Cabut)，笔名“卡比”(Cabu)；贝尔纳德·韦里亚克(Bernard Verlhac)，笔名蒂格努斯(Tignous)，以及乔治·沃林斯基(Georges Wolinski)。本次遇难的经济学家贝尔纳德·马里斯(Bernard Maris)和心理医生艾尔莎·卡伊特(Elsa Cayat)都是专栏作家，新一期周报会刊登他们的作品以志纪念，也许还会刊出一篇未经校对的专栏文章，来纪念校稿编辑穆斯塔法·欧拉德(Mustapha Ourrad)。
“In this edition, they didn’t kill anyone,” Mr. Biard said. The staff members will “appear as they always did.” Asked what else would go in the paper, Patrick Pelloux, an emergency room doctor who also writes for Charlie, said with a laugh: “Oh, I don’t know. Not much happening this week.”
“在这一期中，就好像他们没有杀死任何人，”比亚尔说，这些员工将“像他们平时那样出现”。当被问到这一期中会有什么内容时，《查理周报》撰稿人、急诊室医生帕特里克·佩卢(Patrick Pelloux)笑着说：“哦，我不知道。这一星期没有发生什么事。”
On Saturday, staff members began trickling in around midday. Cartoons began appearing on the conference room wall, which was filled with them by the evening. Someone could be heard crying inside. Corinne Rey, who goes by Coco, sat at the table, brush in hand, drawing. She said the gunmen had forced her to punch in the code to let them into the paper’s offices.
上周六，员工在中午陆续到来。漫画出现在会议室墙上，到晚上时，墙上已经满是漫画。可以听到有人在里面哭泣。笔名可可(Coco)的漫画家柯琳娜·雷伊(Corinne Rey)坐在桌边，拿着画笔绘图。她说，枪手之前强迫她输入密码，把他们放进报社的办公室。
When the gunmen arrived, some thought it might be a joke, according to staff members. After years of threats, Mr. Charbonnier had made a joke of the jihadist cry “Allahu akbar,” or “God is great,” said Zineb El Rhazoui, 32, a Charlie Hebdo reporter who grew up in Morocco and wrote a cartoon biography of Muhammad with Mr. Charbonnier.
报社员工说，枪手到来时，有些人以为这可能是个玩笑。在经受了多年的威胁之后，沙博尼耶开始用圣战分子呼喊的口号“真主至大”来开玩笑，32岁的齐娜布·拉祖伊(Zineb El Rhazoui)说。她是《查理周报》的记者，在摩洛哥长大，和沙博尼耶一起画了穆罕默德的传记漫画。
“It was like his war cry: ‘Allahu akbar this.’ ‘Allahu akbar that,’ ” she said. “We joked with him that he needed to stop using the phrase because the day the assassins actually come to kill us, we won’t know if it’s them screaming this phrase or Charb,” she said.
“仿佛成了他的战斗口号：‘真主至大这个’、‘真主至大那个’，”她说。“我们和他开玩笑说，他不应该再这么喊了，因为万一有一天刺客真的来杀我们，我们都分不清喊话的究竟是刺客还是沙博了。”
Work ground to a halt on Sunday, when a demonstration denouncing the violence drew world leaders and more than 1.5 million people to the streets of Paris. Marching in the front row, many Charlie Hebdo staff members wore white headbands that read “Charlie,” a nod to the paradox of the outsider weekly’s sudden arrival on the front lines of a global confrontation. At the demonstration, Dr. Pelloux cried for a long time on the shoulder of President François Hollande when the president greeted the Charlie Hebdo staff and families of those killed at the related attack at a kosher supermarket.
上周日，工作陷入停顿，因为谴责暴力的示威吸引了世界各国领导人，超过150万人涌上巴黎街头。《查理周报》的很多员工戴着写有“查理”字样的白色头带，走在示威人群的前排，这似乎也体现出一种矛盾感：一份小众周报，突然置身于一场全球性对抗的前沿。在游行中，当法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)慰问《查理周报》员工和犹太洁食(kosher)超市袭击案遇难者家属时，佩卢医生在奥朗德的肩头哭了好一会儿。
Dr. Pelloux was at a meeting of emergency room doctors when he received a call with news of the Charlie Hebdo attack. He arrived with other rescue workers to find the carnage in a room rank with gun smoke, and began checking to see who was alive and who was dead. “I’ve seen cadavers,” he said. But this “was insane.”
佩卢医生接到《查理周报》遇袭消息的电话时，正在和其他急诊室医生开会。他与其他救援人员赶到硝烟味刺鼻的杀戮现场，开始检查谁还活着，谁已经丧生。“我以前见过尸体，”他说。但是，这次真是“疯了”。
Expressing the trauma of survivor guilt during an interview, he said, “I shouldn’t be alive,” his eyes welling up.
在一次接受采访时，佩卢表达了幸存者内疚感带来的创伤，“我不应该活着，”眼泪涌了出来。
While the staff worked all weekend, the plainclothes police officers sat outside the newsroom door. One said he had once been assigned to Marine Le Pen, the leader of the right-wing National Front, who made a point of shunning the rally on Sunday. The officers lost one of their number in the attacks inside the office on Wednesday, too: Franck Brinsolaro, who had been assigned to guard Mr. Charbonnier. Staff members said Mr. Brinsolaro had become a part of the tightly knit Charlie family, even bringing in his mother’s homemade pâté at Christmastime.
报社员工整个周末都在加班，便衣警察坐在编辑室的门外。其中一名警察说，他以前有段时间的任务是保护右翼政党国民阵线的领导人玛琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)，勒庞特意没有参加周日的集会，以此表达自己的观点。上周三《查理周报》办公室遭袭击时，这些警官也失去了一位同事：弗兰克·布伦索拉罗(Franck Brinsolaro)，其任务是保护沙博尼耶。员工们说，《查理周报》是个亲近的大家庭，而布伦索拉罗已经成为了其中一分子，圣诞节他甚至把母亲手工制作的肉酱带来给大家分享。
Charlie Hebdo, which was founded in 1970 and grew out of an earlier satirical weekly, Hari Kiri, was an equal-opportunity offender, taking on the Roman Catholic Church, Judaism and Islam, along with secular targets, including — often wickedly — the politicians who have now rallied to their side. It believed in blasphemy.
《查理周报》成立于1970年，前身是早期讽刺周报《切腹》(Hari Kiri)，它没有偏袒地进行挑衅，讽刺罗马天主教、犹太教和伊斯兰教，也不放过世俗对象，其中包括那些现在站到该周报一边的政界人士，而且这些政界人士遭到的讽刺常常很恶劣。亵渎是《查理周报》的信仰。
“The only thing that is sacred is free expression,” Ms. Rhazoui said. Their cartoons of Muhammad posed the greatest threat. They were sued for defamation for running the cartoons of Muhammad originally published in a Danish newspaper in 2005 and won the suit. In 2011, the paper’s former offices were firebombed after it published a special Arab Spring edition, “guest edited” by Muhammad, who appears in a cartoon with a clown’s nose saying, “100 lashes if you’re not dead of laughter.” The perpetrators of the firebombing were never found.
“唯一神圣的事情就是言论自由，”哈佐努说。他们的穆罕默德漫画招致的威胁是最严重的。这些漫画最初于2005年发表在一家丹麦报纸上，让他们遭到了诽谤起诉，但他们胜诉了。2011年，有人用燃烧弹袭击了该报社之前的一间办公室，因为他们推出了一期阿拉伯之春的特刊，由漫画人物穆罕默德“客座编辑”。这个人物有一个小丑鼻子，嘴里说，“如果你还没有笑死，抽100鞭。”燃烧弹事件一直没有被查出肇事者。