The Los Angeles Times said Tuesday that it was suspending Jonathan Kaiman, its Beijing bureau chief, amid accusations of sexual misconduct.
《洛杉矶时报》(Los Angeles Times)周二表示，由于受到不当性行为指控，北京分社社长江林森(Jonathan Kaiman)将被停职。
The move followed accusations against Mr. Kaiman by a fellow journalist, Felicia Sonmez, who outlined what she said was “problematic behavior” by Mr. Kaiman during an encounter in September. Those accusations were put into a letter addressed to the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China, of which Mr. Kaiman was president until January.
此举是因为记者费莉西娅·桑莫兹(Felicia Sonmez)对江林森的指控。她讲述了江林森在去年9月与她的一次会面中的“不当行为”。桑莫兹在写给驻华外国记者协会(Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China)的信中提出了这些指控。江林森曾任该协会主席，但于今年一月辞职。
In the letter, Ms. Sonmez described being repeatedly groped by Mr. Kaiman without her consent, being pushed up against a wall and eventually feeling pressured into sex after a night of drinking.
桑莫兹在信中写道，江林森在没有征得同意的情况下多次猥亵她，把她按到墙上，在喝了一夜酒后，她感觉自己在受迫之下与他发生了性关系。
“Even though parts of the evening were consensual, while on the way, Jon escalated things in a way that crossed a line,” Ms. Sonmez, who is a former member of the club’s board, wrote. She said that alcohol clouded her memory of exactly how she and Mr. Kaiman ended up having sex, and whether it was coerced.
“尽管那个晚上的部分活动是双方自愿的，但在这个过程中，乔恩以一种过分的方式推动了事情的发展，”曾为该协会董事会成员的桑莫兹写道。她表示，酒精模糊了她的记忆，她记不清自己和江林森到底是怎么发生性行为的，以及她是否受到了胁迫。
Ms. Sonmez, who worked in Beijing for The Wall Street Journal, has since moved to the United States.
曾在北京为《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)工作的桑莫兹后来移居美国。
In response, Mr. Kaiman said, “My perception and Ms. Sonmez’s perception of that night’s events differ greatly. All of the acts we engaged in were mutually consensual.”
江林森回应称，“我对当晚事件的看法与桑莫兹截然不同。我们的所有行为都是双方自愿的。”
Ms. Sonmez is the second woman to come forward with accusations of sexual misconduct against Mr. Kaiman. In January, Laura Tucker, a law student and former housemate of his, accused him of pressuring her into sex during an encounter in 2013 after a night of drinking. “I explicitly voiced my lack of consent several times, and my words had no effect,” Ms. Tucker wrote in a post on the website Medium.
桑莫兹是第二位对江林森提出不当性行为指控的女性。今年1月，当时的法律系学生、江林森的前室友劳拉·塔克(Laura Tucker)指控在2013年的一次会面中，酒后迫使她与他发生性关系。“我多次明确表示我不愿意，但我的话没有起到任何作用，”塔克在Medium网站上的一篇文章中写道。
She described Mr. Kaiman’s behavior as including unwanted touching and said that parts of their encounter were consensual but that at some point things got out of control.
塔克称，江林森的行为包括不必要的触碰，还表示，他们会面的部分活动是双方自愿的，但在某个时刻，事情失控了。
“Although I can’t remember what else I said, I clearly remember feeling confused and dismayed that he wasn’t leaving, or even moving, and that he didn’t seem to believe that I knew what I knew I wanted,” wrote Ms. Tucker, who is also now in the United States.
“虽然我不记得自己有没有说过别的什么话，但我清楚地记得，他没有离开，甚至没有移动身体，他似乎不相信我知道自己想要什么，那令我感到迷惑和惊慌，”塔克写道。她现在也在美国生活。
The accusations have reverberated through Beijing’s close-knit community of foreign reporters and come amid a broader wave of accusations of sexual harassment, mostly by women, against powerful figures in the media in the United States, including Harvey Weinstein and former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly.
在联系紧密的驻京外国记者群体中，此事引发巨大反响，而此刻正在掀起一波针对美国媒体界权势人物的性骚扰指控，提出指控的大多是女性，被指控者包括哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)以及前福克斯新闻主播比尔·奥莱利(Bill O’Reilly)。
After Ms. Tucker published the post in January, Mr. Kaiman resigned as president of the correspondents’ club. In a Twitter message to Ms. Tucker at the time, Mr. Kaiman said he was “so, so deeply sorry — I did not in any way mean to pressure you into an unwanted or uncomfortable sexual encounter, and I thought we had talked through the issue as peers and friends.”
在1月份塔克发文之后，江林森辞去了驻华外国记者协会主席之职。当时，江林森在Twitter上向塔克表示，他“非常抱歉——当时我绝不想以任何方式迫使你发生不情愿或不舒服的性接触，我以为我们作为伙伴和朋友已经透彻地讨论了这个问题”。
On Tuesday, after Ms. Sonmez’s letter was widely circulated, The Los Angeles Times said it would investigate, adding that the paper “takes these allegations seriously.”
周二，在桑莫兹的信被广泛传阅后，《洛杉矶时报》表示，它将进行调查，并表示会“严肃对待这些指控”。
Mr. Kaiman was hired by The Los Angeles Times in 2015. He was an intern at The New York Times in 2011.
江林森是2015年被《洛杉矶时报》聘用的。2011年，他曾在《纽约时报》实习。
Mr. Kaiman declined to address the specific accusations, saying he was speaking with a lawyer. “I’ve been advised not to say more until the investigation is complete,” he said.
江林森拒绝就具体指控发表意见，他表示正在咨询律师。“律师建议我在调查完成前，不要再多发言，”他说。
In her letter to the club, Ms. Sonmez also said she was disappointed with how it had handled Mr. Kaiman’s resignation. She said she had shared her accusations against him with another board member before Mr. Kaiman resigned.
桑莫兹在写给驻华外国记者协会的信中还表示，她对该协会处理江林森辞职的方式感到失望。她表示，在江林森辞职之前，她曾向另一位董事会成员陈述了自己对江林森的指控。
The board allowed him to draft his own resignation, making it appear voluntary and making no mention of the fact that the accusations were severe enough for the board to determine he could no longer serve as president, Ms. Sonmez said.
桑莫兹表示，董事会允许他自己起草辞呈，以显得像自愿辞职，且完全没有提及是这些指控的严重程度促使董事会认为，他已经不再适合担任主席。
In response, the club said it did not have the power to decide to remove Mr. Kaiman without calling a special meeting and holding a referendum among members to remove him.
该协会回应称，在没有召开特别会议、由会员进行表决的情况下，该协会无权罢免他。
“The board did not have full knowledge of the allegations when it made its decision,” the club said in a statement. “That, however, is not an excuse for its actions.”
“在做出决定时，董事会对指控缺乏充分的了解，”该协会在一份声明中表示，“不过，这并非为董事会的行动作辩解。”
Both Ms. Sonmez and Ms. Tucker said they were pleased that The Los Angeles Times was investigating their accusations.
桑莫兹和塔可都表示，她们为《洛杉矶时报》在调查她们的指控感到高兴。
“Whether it takes place in the U.S. or while on assignment abroad, sexual misconduct should never be tolerated by any news organization,” Ms. Sonmez said.
“无论是发生在美国，还是在外派期间，任何新闻机构都不应该容忍不当性行为，”桑莫兹说。
Ms. Tucker said she was “furious but unsurprised that my experience was not an isolated event.”
塔克表示，“我的经历不是孤立事件，这令我愤怒，但并不感到意外。”