BEIRUT — A cover illustration of Prophet Muhammad in the latest edition of the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo ignited controversy in the Middle East on Wednesday, prompting Egypt and Turkey to issue or threaten restrictions on publication of the images and stirring wide debate over religion and free speech.
贝鲁特——本周三，法国讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的最新一期以先知穆罕默德作为封面，在中东引发争议，导致埃及和土耳其对这幅图片发布或威胁发布限制令，掀起了人们对宗教和言论自由的广泛讨论。
Some were outraged, while others called for free speech in countries like Saudi Arabia and Egypt that punish people for alleged blasphemy. Many expressed indifference, saying they were weary of debating cartoons that paled in significance beside the carnage taking place in wars in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere in the region.
一些人被激怒了，另外一些人则呼吁在沙特阿拉伯和埃及等国实现言论自由，这些国家会惩罚那些涉嫌亵渎的人。许多人则表示无所谓，说自己厌倦了为漫画而辩论，因为叙利亚、伊拉克和中东其他地区的战争夺去了很多人的生命，相形之下，这种辩论缺乏意义。
In Egypt, President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi issued a decree giving the prime minister authority to ban any foreign publications “offensive to religion,” the state-owned daily Al Ahram reported. Mr. Sisi has portrayed himself as a secular bulwark against Islamists.
在埃及，官方报纸《金字塔报》(Al Ahram)报道，总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)发布了一个命令，赋予总理禁止发行任何“冒犯宗教”的外国刊物的权力。一直以来，塞西把自己塑造为“抵御伊斯兰主义的世俗捍卫者”。
Egypt’s official religious institutions have had mixed reactions to the new cartoon.
对于新一期漫画，埃及的官方宗教机构的反应各不相同。
Dar al-Ifta, an organization of Sunni scholars, criticized the French publication on Tuesday for its decision to continue printing cartoons depicting the prophet, saying it would “cause a new wave of hatred in French and western societies” and declaring that the magazine “does not serve coexistence and the dialogue of civilizations that Muslims seek.”
本周二，埃及逊尼派学者组织“宗教法令院”(Dar al-Ifta)批评法国决定继续出版描绘先知的漫画，称这将“在法国和西方社会掀起新的仇恨浪潮”，并宣布该周报“不利于穆斯林寻求的共存和文明的对话”。
But Al-Azhar University, the foremost institution of Sunni scholarship, on Wednesday called on people to “ignore” the cartoons. “Ignore this unpleasant trifle,” the statement advised, “because the Prophet of mercy and humanity (peace be upon him) is on too great and high a level to be affected by drawings that lack ethics.”
但是，逊尼派最主要的学术机构加沙爱资哈尔大学(Al-Azhar University)本周三呼吁人们“无视”这些漫画。“无视这种不愉快的小事，”该声明表示，“因为宽容仁慈的先知（愿他安息）超凡脱俗，缺德的图片对他毫无影响。”
The Egyptian Family House, an organization of the country’s main Muslim and Coptic Christian authorities, issued a statement decrying the cartoons because they “increase the gap between people and religions” and calling on media outlets not to “negatively target the prophets and the heavenly religions, and not to provoke the feelings of Muslims.”
埃及主要的穆斯林和科普特基督教组织“埃及之家”(Egyptian Family House)发表声明，谴责这些漫画“加大了不同人群和宗教之间的鸿沟”，并呼吁媒体不要“对先知和神圣的宗教进行负面报道，不要伤害穆斯林的感情”。
Egyptian courts have recently sentenced a 21-year-old student to three years in jail for atheism and what were deemed blasphemous statements on his Facebook page, and a Christian man was sentenced last year to six years for “insulting Islam.”
埃及法院最近被判处一名21岁的学生三年监禁，因为他信奉无神论，在Facebook页面上发表了被视为亵渎神明的言论。一名基督徒男子去年因为“侮辱伊斯兰教”被判六年监禁。
In Turkey, like Egypt a large and influential Muslim country, a local court in the southern city of Diyarbakir ordered the blocking of sections of four websites that showed the new cartoon, the semiofficial Anadolu news agency reported.
像埃及一样，土耳其也是个有影响力的穆斯林大国，据半官方的土耳其阿纳多卢通讯社(Anadolu News Agency)报道，南部城市迪亚巴克尔的一所法院下令封禁转载新漫画的四家网站的部分页面。
One Turkish website, T24, translated the entire new issue of Charlie Hebdo into Turkish and those pages were still accessible Wednesday evening.
土耳其网站T24已经把新一期《查理周报》全部翻译成土耳其语，本周三晚上仍可访问这些网页。
In the early morning hours on Wednesday, the Turkish police halted trucks distributing Cumhuriyet, a left-wing newspaper that carried four pages from Charlie Hebdo’s new issue. Distribution resumed only after investigators checked the contents of the paper and concluded that none of the cartoons represented the prophet, Turkish news media reported.
周三凌晨，土耳其警方拦住了配送左翼报纸《共和报》(Cumhuriyet)的卡车，因为该报转载了《查理周报》新一期的四个页面。在调查员检查过报纸的内容，并认定没有任何代表先知的漫画之后，配送工作才得以恢复，土耳其新闻媒体报道。
The newspaper received numerous threats over the phone and the Internet. Near the Cumhuriyet headquarters in central Istanbul, the police detained a protester who carried an Islamic flag, shouting, “You will not attack my religion, my prophet,” according to CNN Turk.
该报收到了很多电话和网上威胁。《共和报》总部位于伊斯坦布尔市中心，警方在其附近拘留了一名抗议者，他举着一面伊斯兰旗帜，高呼“不准攻击我的宗教，我的先知”。CNN土耳其分部报道。
Three more protesters were detained close to Cumhuriyet newspaper premises late Wednesday after they held signs carrying death threats against any one who insulted Islam and its prophet.
本周三晚，三名示威者在该报总部附近被拘留，他们举着标语，上面是对任何侮辱伊斯兰教及其先知的人发出的死亡威胁。
“If you have limitless freedom of speech, Muslim community has limitless right to protest,” one handwritten sign read, a photograph posted on Twitter showed.
在Twitter的一张照片中，一个手写牌子上面写着，“如果你拥有没有限制的言论自由，那么穆斯林社区就有没有限制的抗议权利。”
Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite group whose leader, Hassan Nasrallah, last week criticized extremists who kill those they consider infidels in the name of Islam — without explicitly denouncing the Paris killings — released a statement Wednesday condemning the new cartoon.
上周，黎巴嫩什叶派组织真主党(Hezbollah)领袖哈桑·纳斯鲁拉(Hassan Nasrallah)批评极端分子以伊斯兰的名义，杀害那些他们眼中的异教徒，却没有明确谴责巴黎杀戮事件。他本周三发表了一份声明，谴责新一期的漫画。
“Such an action is absolutely rejected,” it said. He called cartoon “a big provocation to the feelings of more than one and a half billion Muslims in the world, all of them believers in heaven’s messages and keen for dialogue and common values. Such actions directly contribute to supporting terrorism, extremism and extremists.”
“这样行为绝对不可接受，”声明说。他称漫画是“对全球逾十五亿穆斯林在感情上的一大挑衅，这些穆斯林全都相信天国的讯息，赞成对话和普世价值观。挑衅举动直接促使了一些人支持恐怖主义、极端主义和极端分子。”
The Islamic State militant group – to which one of the Paris attackers swore allegiance — declared on its Internet radio channel: “In a very idiotic move, Charlie Hebdo published in new edition an offensive drawing of the greatest prophet, peace be upon him. The atheist journal is seeking to exploit the recent events to gain more money with today’s edition.”
武装组织伊斯兰国(Islamic State)——巴黎袭击者之一宣誓效忠的组织——在其网络电台频道上宣布：“《查理周报》在新的一期中刊登了针对最伟大先知（愿他安息）的挑衅性图片，这是一个很白痴的举动。这家无神论杂志正在试图利用最近发生的事件，从新的一期中赚到更多钱。”
Another Twitter account that often praises the group called on users to bombard a French Foreign Ministry account with condemnation of the cartoons, and sent its own message that read: “Stop insulting our sanctities. If you do not stop insulting the Messenger of God, the Islamic State will start slaughtering you in your streets.”
经常赞颂该组织的另一个Twitter账号呼吁用户去法国外交部账号那里留言，谴责这些漫画，该账号还发布了自己的消息：“别侮辱我们的神圣性，如果你们不停止侮辱神的使者，伊斯兰国将开始在你们的大街上宰杀你们。”
Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, said in comments published Wednesday in a Czech newspaper that the attacks in Paris were a result of Western support for “terrorism,” referring to Western backing of insurgents opposed to his rule.
叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)，本周三在一家捷克报纸上发表评论说，巴黎袭击案是西方支持“恐怖主义”的结果，他指的是西方为那些反对他的武装分子提供了支持。
“We are against the killing of innocent people anywhere in the world,” Mr. Assad said, drawing anger and ridicule from Syrians opposed to his rule, who noted that his government has killed countless Syrians in indiscriminate bombardments during four years of civil war that have left more than 200,000 dead.
“我们反对在世界上任何地方杀害无辜者，”阿萨德说。反对其统治的叙利亚人对此表示了愤怒和嘲讽，指出其政府已经用滥轰滥炸的方式杀害了无数叙利亚人。该国四年的内战导致20多万人丧生。
But on Syrian Facebook groups and other social media sites used by both supporters and opponents of Mr. Assad, there was little discussion Wednesday of the new cartoon.
但在叙利亚的Facebook小组，阿萨德的支持者和反对者使用的其他社交媒体网站上，几乎都没有对本周三的新漫画加以讨论。
In Geneva, while waiting for a meeting with Secretary of State John Kerry in a luxury hotel, the Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, was asked by reporters why his government had criticized the cover of the new issue.
伊朗外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)在日内瓦一家豪华酒店等待与美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)会晤的时候，记者问他，伊朗政府为何批评新一期周报的封面。