A gargantuan wall of roiling, nicotine-brown water gives way to a parched riverbed where bleached branches decorate the baked earth like skulls. The images, captured in ultrahigh definition by Nicholas de Pencier, are primal and striking, presented initially without identification or narration. In a general sense, we know what we’re looking at, but the specifics remain stubbornly veiled.
巨大的棕黄色湍流变成了干涸的河床，大地干枯，遍地皲裂，如同骷髅一般。这幅画面在尼古拉斯·德·潘西尔(Nicholas de Pencier)的高清镜头之下，径直呈现在观众面前，没有字幕或旁白，显得分外触目惊心。从广义上，我们知道自己在看什么，但细节仍不分明。
So goes much of “Watermark,” Jennifer Baichwal and Edward Burtynsky’s second investigation (after “Manufactured Landscapes” in 2007) into the impact of human beings on the natural world. Driven by the question “How does water shape us, and then how do we shape water?,” Ms. Baichwal and Mr. Burtynsky, a photographer noted for his large-scale industrial panoramas, travel across 10 countries and countless human activities, seeking an answer. From the denatured Colorado River delta to abalone fisheries along China’s Fujian coast, the filmmakers find a species in thrall to H2O and largely heedless of the consequences of its unnatural manipulation.
《水迹》(Watermark)是詹妮弗·贝奇瓦尔(Jennifer Baichwal)和爱德华·伯蒂恩斯基(Edward Burtynsky)的第二部调查人类对自然影响的影片（上一部是2007年的《人造景观》[Manufactured Landscapes]），影片中大部分内容都是这样的。伯蒂恩斯基是一位摄影师，以拍摄大规模工业全景画闻名，他与贝奇瓦尔带着“水是怎样塑造我们，我们又是怎样塑造水？”这个问题，走遍了十几个国家，探访无数人类行为，寻访答案。从改变了自然性质的科罗拉多河三角洲，到中国福建沿海的鲍鱼养殖业，两位导演揭示出，人类这个物种深受H2O控制，同时又对于自己对水资源非自然操控带来的后果漫不经心。
What those might be is not this film’s primary concern. Always arresting and sometimes troubling, “Watermark” — aside from the odd comment here and there — neither lectures nor argues. Moving serenely from inscrutable tight shots to wide-scale aerial vistas, the film can be frustratingly oblique: There’s nothing bewildering in the millions of Hindus enjoying a ritual bath in the Ganges, but what about those copper-colored containers dangling in the bowels of a colossal Chinese dam? Whatever they’re up to — like the destination of the foaming sludge exiting a leather-tanning operation in Bangladesh — we may never know; it just feels like no good.
这些可能并非这部电影最关注的问题。《水迹》一片虽然在有些地方招致奇怪的评价，但却始终扣人心弦、发人深省，而且不是说教或争辩。镜头不声不响地从难以理解的近距离镜头变为大范围航拍，影片的隐晦或许令人有些沮丧：成百上千的印度人沐浴在恒河中举行仪式的场面似乎并不令人迷惑，但一座中国大坝内部悬挂着的那些黄铜色泽的容器又是怎么回事呢？我们可能永远也不会知道它们是用来干什么的——就像不知道孟加拉某处涌出的棕色泥浆是为了什么；这样的镜头感觉没有什么用处。