Not since Charlton Heston struggled to save humanity from itself have movies looked this grimly, resolutely fatalistic. The man who was Moses began fighting the fantasy good fight in 1968, battling damn dirty apes in “Planet of the Apes,” before going on to face zombie hordes in “Omega Man” and an overpopulated nightmare in “Soylent Green.” (Psst: It’s people!) Heston may be gone, but the zombie hordes have kept coming, along with other new and unusual annihilating threats, and now it’s back to the dystopian future with “Elysium,” a cautionary shocker from the director Neill Blomkamp about a Hobbesian war of all against all from which only Matt Damon can save us.
自从查尔顿·赫斯顿(Charlton Heston)努力从人性中拯救它自身以来，如此绝对宿命主义的严肃电影已经近乎绝迹。那个曾经饰演摩西的男人先是在1968年的《人猿星球》(Planet of the Apes)中展开精彩的奇幻战斗，与肮脏可憎的人猿做斗争；之后又在《最后一个人》(Omega Man)中面对行尸走肉般的人群；在《超世纪谍杀案》(Soylent Green)中面对人口过剩的梦魇（嘘：人类来了！)。赫斯顿虽已逝去，但行尸走肉般的人群并未消失，不断面临非同寻常的灭绝新威胁，如今又来到了《极乐空间》(Elysium)中反乌托邦的未来。《极乐空间》是导演尼尔·布洛姆坎普(Neill Blomkamp)一部警世的惊人之作，是一场人人自危的霍布斯式战争，只有马特·达蒙(Matt Damon)可以拯救我们。
Mr. Damon plays Max, an Everyman living, though often just struggling, in 2154 amid the devastation known as Earth. Mr. Blomkamp knows how to set the stage and, as cameras race over the wreckage like vengeful or fleeing angels, taking in the digitally rendered horrors and real locations, some introductory text explains the basics. Disease, poverty and overpopulation — and, from the churning dust, presumably ecological ruin — have transformed the planet into a global ghetto. While the multicultural many crawl through the terrestrial dirt, the privileged few live in the ultimate gated community, a wheel-shaped space habitat, Elysium, that brings to mind an orbital Mercedes-Benz logo. Up close, it looks like one of the costlier coastal swatches of Southern California.
达蒙饰演名叫麦克斯的角色，尽管他经常抗争，但仍然只是个普通人，2154年，他生活在地球这个满目疮痍的地方。布洛姆坎普知道该怎样构建舞台，镜头像复仇天使或逃亡天使一样快速掠过那片废墟，拍下用数码技术制作的恐怖场面与真实风景，一些介绍性的文字解释了故事的基础。疾病、贫穷与人口过剩，还有飞扬的尘土和可以想见的生态毁灭，这个星球已经成了一个大贫民窟。多元文化的大多数人在地球的尘埃里苟且求生，而拥有特权的少数人则生活在终极豪华社区——一个轮子形状的外层空间栖息地。它名叫极乐空间，有点像梅赛德斯-奔驰的圆形商标。近看又有点像更昂贵的南加州近海样板社区。
Mr. Blomkamp, who made a splash with his 2009 feature debut, “District 9,” has a talent for making the old and familiar seem excitingly new. As he has before, he again uses real locations to suggest the impending worst, with areas in Mexico City here standing in for 2154 Los Angeles. (Parts of Vancouver double for Elysium.) Pauline Kael once called Los Angeles the fantasy-brothel, “you can live any way you want (except the urban way),” but for years, the city has also served as a reliable nightmare, more roach motel than brothel: Sure, you can get in, but good luck getting out. That this tends to say more about how some filmmakers see the movie industry should go without saying.
布洛姆坎普2009年的长篇处女作《第9区》(District 9)引起了轰动，他有种让旧事物或熟悉的事物显得焕然一新的天赋。和之前一样，他再次使用真实景观拍摄，暗示最坏的情况迫在眉睫，其中包括用墨西哥城的景色来代表2154年的洛杉矶，还有用温哥华的景色作为极乐空间。宝琳·凯尔(Pauline Kael)曾经说洛杉矶是个奇幻的妓院，“在这里，你可以按照任何你想要的方式生存（除了城市的方式）。”但是多年来，这座城市也一直充当一个可靠的梦魇角色，与其说像妓院，倒不如说像是个蟑螂肆虐的小旅馆：没错，你可以来，但是想离开就没那么容易了。这好像更是在说明某些导演对电影工业未来走向的看法。
For his part, the 33-year-old Mr. Blomkamp hasn’t been around long enough to bite the hand feeding him. And while he has a talent for visualizing the worst (apparently a big-studio directorial prerequisite these days), he brings a light touch and jokes to the ugliest proceedings. Even Max’s ghetto doesn’t seem especially awful. He may live in a home that’s a dump by haute Hollywood standards, but it looks far better than the cardboard and corrugated-metal houses crowding the poorer regions of so many of the real world’s megalopolises. The mob of children who swarm him on his way to work greet him with giggles not desperation, while his friend, Julio (a sweet Diego Luna in fetching braids), offers camaraderie and some back story when he asks for Max’s help with a robbery.
至于33岁的导演布洛姆坎普，他在这里呆的时间还不够长，还没有达到对衣食父母反咬一口的地步。一方面，他拥有把最糟糕的场面通过视觉效果表现出来的能力（在如今，这显然需要大制片公司的管理作为先决条件），另一方面，他也为这些最丑陋的场景带来了一丝感动和若干玩笑。就连麦克斯的贫民窟也不是特别糟糕。他可以住在自己的家里，虽说按照好莱坞的豪华标准，那个家就是个垃圾堆，但似乎远比现实世界大都市中许多更穷的贫民区里用纸板和瓦楞状金属板搭起来的房子要好。在他上班路上，拦路簇拥着他的小孩子们都在笑，一点也不绝望；还有朋友朱利奥（迭戈·鲁纳[Diego Luna]饰演的可爱角色，留着小辫子），为他带来同志情谊。朱利奥要求麦克斯帮他进行一桩抢劫案，从而交代了一些背景故事。
A reformed thief with tattoos riding up his neck, Max now labors in a factory that manufactures the robots that police the masses and, shades of “The Jetsons” and Philip K. Dick, serve the Elysium elite. That the robots appear to have it easier than the humans stuck on Earth is one of the bitter truths that Mr. Blomkamp deploys as he begins filling in the story. He’s better with some big-picture details: On Earth, folks speak English and Spanish (Max switches between both), while on Elysium, the well-heeled drop a little French in between exchanging pleasantries and exercising their privilege. The apotheosis of their Elysium entitlement, and a crucial emblem of the divide between the haves and the have-nots, are home-wellness machines that, by rescrambling atoms, eradicate disease almost instantaneously.
麦克斯脖子上有文身，是个改过自新的窃贼，如今在一家生产机器人的工厂工作。这些机器人有些像《杰森一家》(The Jetsons)中的人物和菲利普·K·迪克(Philip K. Dick)笔下的形象，用来监管大众，并为极乐空间中的精英服务。这些机器人似乎比困在地球上的人类过得更自在，这是布洛姆坎普为影片设计的一个悲惨事实，并在故事中逐渐展开。还有一些贯穿全局的细节，他设计得更好：在地球上，人们说英语和西班牙语（麦克斯在这二者之间切换），而在极乐空间中，衣着考究的人们享有特权，彼此寒暄，谈话中不时夹杂几句法语。极乐空间拥有家庭治疗仪器，能通过重组原子的方式瞬间治疗疾病，它使得极乐空间的公民身份被神圣化，也成了“拥有一切者”和“一无所有者”之间鸿沟的象征。
The movie gets going after Max receives a lethal dose of radiation, sending him on a mission of self-preservation. “I don’t want to die,” he says, voicing the fear of extinction behind all dystopian fiction. His mission grows exponentially weightier when, in an effort to cure himself, he joins up with a smuggler, Spider (Wagner Moura, fantastic). A high-tech coyote, if one still using a notebook computer, Spider agrees to send Max to Elysium illegally on the condition that he steal information from the head, literally, of an industrialist (the dependably good William Fichtner in full slither mode). The would-be brain-jacking goes wrong, sending Max deeper into trouble, pushed one way by a love interest (Alice Braga) and pulled another by Elysium villains (Jodie Foster and Sharlto Copley).
影片继续发展，麦克斯受到致命剂量的辐射，为了生存必须执行一项任务。“我不想死，”他说，声音里带着反乌托邦小说中都有的对灭绝的恐惧。他的任务很快变得更加沉重，为了拯救他自己，他去找走私者斯拜德（Spider，瓦格纳·马拉[Wagner Moura]饰，演得十分精彩）。虽说仍然在用笔记本电脑，但斯拜德是个野狼一样的高科技犯罪分子，他同意非法送麦克斯去极乐空间，条件是麦克斯要为他窃取一个工业家（由演技不会让人失望的威廉·菲德内尔[William Fichtner]以流畅至极的方式加以演绎）头脑中（确实是从大脑里）的信息。这桩大脑抢劫案出了问题，让麦克斯更深地陷入困境，所爱的人（艾莉斯·布拉加[Alice Braga]饰）将他推向一条道路，来自极乐空间的恶人们（朱迪·福斯特[Jodie Foster]与沙尔托·科普雷[Sharlto Copley]饰）又把他推向另一条。
Putting the world in Mr. Damon’s hands is as smart as making him the star of a big special-effects fantasia. At once preternaturally boyish and middle aged (he’s 42), Mr. Damon has become the greatest utility player in movies: No one can better vault across rooftops and in and out of genres and make you care greatly if he falls. He’s so homespun that he could have sprung wholly formed from a corn silo (he shares James Stewart’s extraordinary likability if not his later-life, postwar neurotic edge). But it’s the ease and sincerity with which Mr. Damon conveys moral decency — so that it feels as if it originates from deep within rather than from, say, God or country — that helps make him a strikingly contemporary ideal of what used to be regularly called the American character.
把世界交到达蒙手中，这个主意就像让他担任大型特效奇幻片主人公一样聪明。人届中年的达蒙（42岁）还有着超乎寻常的男孩子气，已经成为电影圈最好用的演员：没有人可以比他更好地越过屋顶，在各种类型片中出入自如，还让你替他担心，生怕他掉下来。他如此质朴，整个人简直就像从玉米仓库里走出来的（他身上就算没有詹姆斯·斯图尔特[James Stewart]晚年那种战后的神经质，也有他那种非凡的亲切可爱）。他的这种轻松和诚恳也带来一种正直的道德感，这感觉仿佛来自他内心深处，而不是来自上帝或祖国之类的东西——因此他十分适合扮演那种理想的当代角色，这种角色过去被称为“美国式人物”。
That character is crucial to making “Elysium” work as well as it does for the simple reason that Mr. Damon’s performance helps keep the movie from sinking under the weight of its artfully constructed horrors. Much as he did in “District 9,” a wobbly political allegory about crustaceanlike E.T.’s subjected to apartheid abuse in South Africa, Mr. Blomkamp builds on real catastrophes to create an admonitory tale. This is one of the axiomatic constructs of science fiction, which makes the familiar strange and the strange familiar, whether it’s the dark, rainy Los Angeles of Ridley Scott’s “Blade Runner” or a Europe that foreshadows that of World War II in H. G. Wells’s 1933 novel, “The Shape of Things to Come” (which three years later became the film “Things to Come”).
这个角色对于《极乐空间》故事的发展非常重要，同样，只是因为达蒙的演技，才使得这部影片没有被它精心构建的沉重恐怖所压倒。布洛姆坎普的前作《第9区》是一部动荡的政治寓言，讲述甲壳动物状的外星人被命令居住在南非，被种族隔离起来；和在《第9区》中一样，他构建出真实的大灾难，讲述一个警世的故事。这是科幻小说的公认结构之一，让熟悉的东西变得陌生，又让陌生的东西变得熟悉，不管是雷利·斯科特(Ridley Scott)《银翼杀手》(Blade Runner)中黑暗多雨的洛杉矶，抑或H·G·威尔斯(H.G. Wells)1933年的小说《事物的形状即将显现》(The Shape of Things to Come)中笼罩着“二战”阴影的欧洲（这部小说面世三年后被改编为电影《未来世界》[Things to Come]），都是如此。
“Elysium” owes something to “The Shape of Things to Come,” in which Wells, writing amid a worldwide depression, envisions a disastrously fallen Earth saved by “an intelligent minority” that abolishes warring sovereign nations in favor of a world government. However disquieting his technocratic remedy for what ailed his times, Wells meets the imaginative worst with a speculative resolution. In other words, he suggests an answer, something that has become scarce in the ravaged landscapes of many science-fiction movies. Mr. Blomkamp’s rendering of Elysium as a McMansion-studded suburb is amusing (it owes much to a space haven designed in 1975 by NASA and Stanford University), but its banality is further evidence of how difficult Utopian visions, even caricatures like this one, have become for filmmakers to imagine.
《极乐空间》有点像《事物的形状即将显现》(The Shape of Things to Come)，威尔斯在沮丧情绪弥漫全球的情况下创作了那部小说，预言了地球在“少数聪明人”的拯救下，免于灾难性的陷落，那些人废除了战争独裁国家，建立起全球政府。威尔斯为时代病开出了技术官僚这剂解药，不管这种方案有多么令人不安，他毕竟为想象中最糟的情况提供了深思熟虑的解决方案。换言之，他提供了一种答案，而在当今满目疮痍的科幻电影中，“答案”已经变得十分罕见。布洛姆坎普令极乐空间成为巨型豪宅遍布的郊区，这个创意很有趣（有点借鉴了1975年美国宇航局和斯坦福大学设计的太空港），但它的平庸进一步证明，对于电影人来说，构想出一个乌托邦世界是多么困难，就算这样一个被漫画化了的版本也是如此。
Like many others working the industrial genre beat, Mr. Blomkamp turns out to be much better at blowing things up than putting the shattered pieces together, though this may also be a matter of box-office calculation. The beginning of “Elysium” comes on like gangbusters, and at first it’s fun to be swept up in a movie like this, riding shotgun with the swooping camera moves and feeling the dread creep in with each of the score’s brassy blares (harbingers of doom like those in “Inception”). As the weapons start firing and the blood begins running, it’s hard not to wonder, though, if it’s Mr. Blomkamp who couldn’t find a genuinely fresh exit strategy or whether, as this summer’s screen conflagrations suggest, it’s the big studios that have given up on Utopia.
就像其他很多工业类型片领域中的人一样，布洛姆坎普更擅长把东西打破，而不是把碎片拼起来，尽管这也有票房的考虑在里面。《极乐空间》的开头十分成功，起先，在这样一部影片里跟随扫过的镜头十分有趣，俯冲的镜头漫无目的地运动，每一声长号的声音都令恐惧的感觉蔓延（就像在《盗梦空间》[Inception]里一样，是种不祥之兆）。但当枪战开始，鲜血流淌，观众不禁会想，布洛姆坎普是不是找不到真正新鲜的解决方案了，或者正如今年夏天影院中的狂潮所表明的那样，大制片公司已经放弃了建立乌托邦的幻想。