It takes chutzpah to start a print publication these days, and a loose grip on reality to imagine that it could last a decade. But the biannual journal Esopus defied the odds last month when it published its 20th issue, “Special Collections,” which features work by Matthew Weiner, the creator of “Mad Men.” Tod Lippy, the magazine’s affable founder and editor, is a one-man masthead, conceiving and executing every issue with assistance only from interns who get paid in lifetime subscriptions.
现如今要想办一本印刷出版物，真得有点胆大妄为的精神才行，而且还得对现实有一些把握，才能想像它在十年之后尚且存在。但是一年双刊的《清泉》(Esopus)杂志战胜逆境，上个月出版了第20期：《特别专辑》(Special Collections)。这一期特载《广告狂人》(Mad Men)的编剧马修·维纳(Matthew Weiner)的文章。杂志和蔼可亲的创建者与主编托德·里皮(Tod Lippy)一人独揽大权，每期杂志的创意都由他亲自构思和执行，只聘请实习生帮忙，报酬是终生免费赠阅该杂志。
Named for a tributary in the Catskill Mountains, Esopus was intended to be a kind of creative platform for artists of all disciplines to exhibit their work on their terms, without the need for an intermediary. “We don’t work with handlers of any kind,” Lippy emphasizes. “No publicists, agents, managers, or lawyers.” He got in touch with the artist Richard Tuttle, the first contributor to Esopus, after finding his number through 411. These days, Esopus carries the imprimatur of the Warhol Foundation (one of several financial backers), which makes it easier for Lippy to catch the interest of artists like John Baldessari and Ed Ruscha, both of whom have appeared in the magazine’s pages.But much of Esopus’s content is by artists whose names come over the transom. Mark Hogancamp, a photographer from upstate New York, appeared in its pages after a friend who lived next door told Lippy about the fantastical world Hogancamp had constructed in his backyard. “He showed me some of Mark’s photographs, and I told him not to show anyone else,” Lippy recalls. As a general rule for every issue, two thirds of contributors to any given issue are unknown or emerging talents, like the autistic collagist Alex Masket and the illustrator Alex Brown, whose vivid drawings of war scenes were published when he was only 13 years old.
《清泉》之名得自卡兹奇山麓中的一条小溪，旨在为各个门类中想以自己的方式展示作品的艺术家提供创意平台，同时避免中间人环节。“我们不和任何中间人打交道，”里皮强调，“没有宣传人员、没有代理商、没有经纪人、没有律师。”《清泉》的第一位撰稿人是艺术家理查德·塔特尔(Richard Tuttle)，里皮从411查号台要来他的电话号码，之后和他取得联系。最近，《清泉》取得了沃霍尔基金会（该基金会是杂志的经济赞助人之一）的出版许可，这样就可以吸引约翰·巴尔代萨里(John Baldessari)和埃德·拉斯查(Ed Ruscha)等艺术家的兴趣（两位艺术家都出现在这期杂志上）。但《清泉》的主要内容还是关于那些毛遂自荐的艺术家们。比如这期出现在杂志上的纽约上城摄影师马克·霍根坎普(Mark Hogancamp)，他隔壁的邻居告诉里皮，霍根坎普在自家后院里建起了一个美妙的世界。“他给我看了一些马克的摄影作品，我告诉他，别再给其他人看了，”里皮回忆。每期杂志一般遵循这样的规则：2/3的撰稿人都是籍籍无名的艺术家，或刚刚崛起的天才。比如患有自闭症的拼贴艺术家阿历克斯·马斯科特(Alex Masket)和插画师阿历克斯·布朗(Alex Brown)；布朗笔下那些生动的战争场面发表时，只有13岁。
A decade in, Lippy still refuses to leverage the integrity of Esopus and its contributors, eschewing ads in favor of sole support from grants and donations. “A big art fair approached us about a collaboration recently,” he explains. “It was a very exciting prospect, but then they insisted on putting an ad in the magazine. So that was the end of that.”
十年过去了，里皮仍然拒绝牺牲《清泉》杂志的原则性和撰稿人，同时避免那些具有偏见的业界巨头和捐赠者的广告。“近来，有大型艺术活动接洽我们谈合作，”他解释，“这是个非常让人兴奋的前景，但后来他们坚持在杂志上登一则广告。所以合作就告吹了。”