The culture has a crush on George R. R. Martin’s writing these days, specifically his best-selling “A Song of Ice and Fire” series, the inspiration behind the hit HBO show “Game of Thrones,” whose fourth season ends Sunday night.
目前，整个文化界都在为乔治·R·R·马丁的作品着迷，特别是畅销的《冰与火之歌》(A Song of Ice and Fire)系列，HBO剧集《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)正是根据这部小说改编，第四季在周日晚终结。
Even with all of this success, though, there is some tension between HBO’s interpretation of the “Thrones” dream and Mr. Martin’s. “Thrones” averages more than 18 million viewers per episode and this season surpassed “The Sopranos” as HBO’s most-watched series. With numbers like that, the Starks and Lannisters, the Baratheons and Targaryens don’t belong solely to Mr. Martin anymore.
尽管取得了这样的成功，HBO对《权力的游戏》的阐释与马丁的原著之间存在一些矛盾之处。《权力的游戏》平均每集有超过1800万观众观看，本季更是超越了《黑道家族》(Sopranos)，成为HBO台收视率最高的剧集。拥有了这样的数据，斯塔克(Stark)、兰尼斯特(Lannister)、拜拉席恩(Baratheon)和坦格利安(Tagaryen)们已经不再属于马丁自己了。
With the show climbing those ratings peaks as well as attracting pointed critiques this season, Mr. Martin agreed to talk about what the show had gotten right so far, what was missing and where his passions lay. And he was able to make those observations from the rare point of view of a writer who has done extensive television work and publishes chart-topping novels.
这一季，剧集攀上收视率高峰的同时也招致了尖锐的批评，马丁同意谈一谈该剧迄今为止的成功之处，哪些地方缺失了，以及他本人对什么地方感到激动。作为一位作家，他既在电视行业做了很多工作，也写出了高踞榜首的小说，因此能从一个罕有的角度进行观察。
In a recent telephone interview, he said he hadn’t found the translation to television too difficult “because they’ve done such a wonderful job of it,” referring to the “Thrones” team led by David Benioff and D. B. Weiss — think of them as Stepfathers of Dragons — who created the series for HBO. But there is one thing that would make Mr. Martin very happy.
在最近的一次电话采访中，他认为把自己的小说搬上电视屏幕不算困难，“因为他们做了非常出色的工作”。他指的是由大卫·贝尼奥夫(David Benioff)与D·B·威斯(D. B. Weiss)领导的《权力的游戏》团队，他俩担任主创，为HBO带来了该剧。马丁觉得他俩是“龙的继父们”。不过，还有一件事能让马丁非常高兴。
As a man with an epic imagination populated by hundreds, if not thousands, of vivid characters, it would please him no end if his creation had more elbow room on HBO, where each season runs just 10 chapters.
该剧目前每季只有十集，作为一个拥有史诗的想象力，能创造出几百个（如果不是上千个）栩栩如生的人物的作家，假如HBO能给他的作品更大空间，那他就觉得再好不过了。
“I wish we had more episodes,” he said, speaking from his home in Santa Fe, N.M. “I’d love to have 13 episodes. With 13 episodes, we could include smaller scenes that we had to cut, scenes that make the story deeper and richer.”
“我希望每季能拍更多集，”他在新墨西哥州圣塔菲的家中说。“我希望能有13集。有了13集，我们就可以把不得不删掉的一些小一些的场面也拍进去，那些小场面让故事更加深刻丰满。”
He understands the calculus of budgets, though. With its far-flung location shoots — Iceland, Northern Ireland, Malta, Croatia, Morocco — and all of those vast yet essential battles, one season of “Thrones” is reported to cost $60 million to $70 million. “Battles are expensive,” said Mr. Martin, who worked in TV in the 1980s, with a seasoned veteran’s resignation in his voice.
不过他也理解预算有限。拍摄地点遍及世界各地——冰岛、北爱尔兰、马耳他、摩洛哥——还有那么多重大战役。据报道，一季《权力的游戏》要花费6000万到7000万美元。“战争戏很贵，”马丁说，20世纪80年代，他曾在电视行业工作，声音里也有种资深人士的无奈。
As for those missing moments, he cited a scene from the first novel, “A Game of Thrones,” that didn’t make it into Season 1. The Starks are traveling to King’s Landing, the capital of the Seven Kingdoms, with the royal family. The sisters Sansa and Arya Stark are invited to tea and lemon cakes with Queen Cersei, but Arya wants to go hunt for rubies with the butcher’s boy. And the sisters argue about it.
至于那些没有拍出的时刻，他举了该系列第一本书《权力的游戏》里一个没有拍出的片段。史塔克一家与皇室一起来到维斯特洛的首都君临城。珊莎(Sansa)与艾莉亚·史塔克(Arya Stark)姊妹受邀和瑟曦王后(Queen Cersei)一起喝茶，吃柠檬蛋糕，但是艾莉亚想去和屠夫的儿子一起狩猎，两姐妹为此吵了架。
Mr. Martin said he misses the scene because it adds texture and helps establish early on the characters of and relationship between the sisters. Though not in the show, the scene was used as part of the successful auditions for Sophie Turner, who plays Sansa, and Maisie Williams, who is Arya.
马丁说，他希望能拍这一幕，是因为它为剧情增添了质感，能在早期塑造两姐妹的性格与关系。尽管没在剧集中拍出来，但饰演珊莎的演员索菲·特纳(Sophie Turner)和饰演艾莉亚的麦茜·威廉姆斯(Maisie Williams)在试镜时拍了这一幕。
Mr. Martin, who first published his short stories in science-fiction magazines in the 1970s, has always seen himself as a fiction writer first, and the world of books has wreathed him in honors, including the Hugo, Nebula, Stoker and World Fantasy Awards. “I am more of a solitary than a collaborator,” he said.
马丁自20世纪70年代开始在科幻杂志上发表短篇小说，他总是首先把自己视为虚构类作家，而图书的世界也给他带来了无数荣誉，包括雨果奖、星云奖、斯托克奖与世界奇幻奖。“我更像是一个隐士，而不是协作者，”他说。
Though he certainly collaborated when he worked in television, as a story editor for “The Twilight Zone” on CBS in 1986, and a writer and producer with “Beauty and the Beast,” which debuted on CBS in 1987. But “there was some frustration,” he said. As a writer, he’s more concerned with: “How do I make it better, stronger? What’s the right word here? I want final say. I got tired of fighting that secondary fight, the Hollywood power equation.”
不过，当他在电视业工作的时候还是要与人合作，他曾经为1986年CBS的《迷离时空》(The Twilight Zone)担任编剧，为1987年在CBS首播的《美女与野兽》(Beauty and the Beast)担任编剧和制片。但是“有点挫折感，”他说。作为作家，他更关心：“我怎样让它变得更好，更有力？这里该用什么字眼？我希望有最终决定权。我厌倦了打间接的战斗，也就是好莱坞的权力等式。”
He added: “If I don’t like one of Anne’s suggestions” — that would be his editor at Bantam Books, Anne Groell — “I just don’t take it. In TV, you have the network, the studio over your head like Zeus on high.”
他补充：“如果我不喜欢安妮的某个建议，”他指的是自己的编辑，班塔姆出版社(Bantam Books)的安妮·格罗尔(Anne Groell)——“我根本就不用在乎。在电视业，电视台、制片公司都像高高在上的宙斯一样踩在你头上。”
So he turned his back on TV and re-embraced the novel, starting his “Ice and Fire” saga in 1991, determined to let the story lead him where it would, to journey back to his first creative passions.
所以他离开了电视行业，重新回到小说老本行，1991年开始了《冰与火之歌》这部长篇史诗，他决心让这个故事带领自己回归最初的创作热情，能走多远就走多远。
Mr. Martin, who’s 65, grew up in Bayonne, N.J., the son of a longshoreman. Early on, he became smitten with fantasy, science fiction and comic books. His youthful favorites included Robert Heinlein, Jack Vance, J. R. R. Tolkien’s “The Lord of the Rings” and Marvel Comics. In Fantastic Four No. 20, from 1963, there’s even a fan letter from a certain George R. Martin — apparently he hadn’t yet grown into that Tolkienesque second “R” — about F.F. No. 17, in which Mr. Fantastic, the Thing and company battled Dr. Doom. Even back then, Mr. Martin was concerned with the ratio of action and page count.
今年65岁的马丁出生在新泽西州的贝永，是码头工人的儿子。他从小就喜欢奇幻和科幻小说以及漫画。他年轻时喜欢的作家包括罗伯特·海因莱因(Robert Heinlein)、杰克·万斯(Jack Wance)、J.R.R. Tolkien(J. R. R. Tolkien)的《指环王》(The Lord of the Rings)和漫威漫画。在1963年的《神奇四侠》(Fantastic Four)第20期上，甚至刊登了署名乔治·R·马丁的漫迷来信——显然他当时还没有在名字中加上托尔金式的第二个“R”——内容是关于《神奇四侠》的第17期，其中神奇先生(Mr. Fantastic)、石头人(the Thing)和同伴与末日博士(Dr.Doom)作战。甚至在那时，马丁就开始关注打斗的比例和页面的价值。
“I cannot fathom how you could fit so much action into so few pages,” he wrote.
“我无法理解，你们的页数那么少，怎么能塞进那么多打斗情节，”他写道。
In the “Ice and Fire” series, Mr. Martin has been all about lots of action and lots and lots of pages — some 5,000 and counting so far — starting in 1996, when “A Game of Thrones” was published. Even though it has plenty of fantasy elements, in many ways it’s more like an epic 19th-century novel with fantasy filigree, often more Tolstoy than Tolkien. Mr. Martin said he never imagined it could be tailored for TV.
在《冰与火之歌》系列中，马丁也用很多页数写了很多打斗情节，自1996年《权力的游戏》出版以来，他已经写了大约5000页。书中虽然有很多奇幻元素，但在很多方面，它更像一部史诗式的19世纪小说，带有精巧的奇幻框架，更像托尔斯泰而不是托尔金。马丁说，他从来没想到它会被改编为电视剧。
And there are those who would have been pleased if it hadn’t come to HBO. With its increased popularity, some critics have complained about the show’s depictions of sexual violence. But Mr. Martin said it was an inescapable aspect of this world. “Rape and sexual violence have been a part of every war ever fought, from the ancient Sumerians to our present day,” he told The New York Times in an email last month. “To omit them from a narrative centered on war and power would have been fundamentally false and dishonest.”
有些人宁愿它没被HBO改编。随着剧集愈来愈流行，有些人批评它描绘性暴力。但马丁说，这是这个世界不可避免的一个方面。“强暴与性暴力一直是每一场战争的一部分，从古苏美尔人的战争直至如今，”在上个月的一封电子邮件中，他这样告诉《纽约时报》，“把它们从以战争和权力为核心的叙事中删去是大错特错，而且是不诚实的。”
But Mr. Martin was quick to point out in this latest interview that his role with the HBO series was secondary. He’s a co-executive producer and has written one episode each season. He said he tries not to fret over television revisions. “But,” he said, “small changes can lead to big changes.”
但在最近的采访中，马丁很快指出，他在HBO剧集中的角色是第二位的。他是一位联合执行制作人，每一季也创作一集剧本。他说自己试着不去为电视剧的改动而烦心。“但是，”他说，“小改动会引起后面的大改动。”
Take the musician Marillion, from Season 1. On HBO, Marillion is maimed — his tongue plucked out — at the whim of King Joffrey and then vanishes from the show. That isn’t the case in the books, where he served as the fall guy in Lord Petyr Baelish’s murder of Lysa Arryn (shown on HBO this season). “So that has to be changed” for the TV show, Mr. Martin said of her murder. “The butterfly effects are accumulating.”
以第一季中的音乐家马瑞里安(Marillion)为例，在HBO的版本中，马瑞里安残疾了，他的舌头被乔弗里国王(King Joffrey)一时兴起拔了出来，后来就从剧中消失了。在小说里可不是这样，在书中，培提尔·贝里席(Petyr Baelish)谋杀莱莎·艾伦(Lysa Arryn)时，马瑞里安充当了替罪羊角色（这个情节将在电视剧的本季播出）。“所以在电视里这段就需要修改，”马丁说起莱莎的死，“蝴蝶效应是逐渐累加的。”
But what about his dream, his vision? Has HBO fulfilled it? He said he was pleased over all by the costume and set designs and special effects. If he were more involved, he said, there would be tweaks and twists he’d suggest. “No, no, let’s make the helmet more like this.”
但是他的梦想，他的想象力又怎样呢？HBO能满足吗？他说，他对所有服装、场景设计和特效都很满意。如果他能更多参与进去，会建议一些微调和变化。“不，不，让头盔更像这样吧。”
But there is one crucial element that frustrates him: the portrayal of the cruel and monumental Iron Throne. “The HBO throne has become iconic,” he has written on his blog. “And well it might. It’s a terrific design, and it has served the show very well. There are replicas and paperweights of it in three different sizes. Everyone knows it. I love it. I have all those replicas right here, sitting on my shelves.”
但是有一个重要道具令他不满：对铁王座的残酷性与纪念意义的展示。“HBO的铁王座成了一种象征，”他在博客中写道，“好吧，它可能是这样的。设计很棒，也非常符合剧集气氛。现在有它的三种不同尺寸的复制品和镇纸。所有人都知道。我喜欢它。所有的复制品我都有，就放在我的架子上。”
But, he continued: “It’s not the Iron Throne I see when I’m working on ‘THE WINDS OF WINTER.’ It’s not the Iron Throne I want my readers to see. The way the throne is described in the books ... HUGE, hulking, black and twisted, with the steep iron stairs in front, the high seat from which the king looks DOWN on everyone in the court ... my throne is a hunched beast looming over the throne room, ugly and assymetric ... The HBO throne is none of those things.”
但是，他又写道：“但这不是我在写《凛冬的寒风》（The Winds of Winter，冰火系列尚未出版的第六卷——译注）时心里想象的铁王座。也不是我希望我的读者看到的铁王座。书中描写的王座巨……巨大、笨重，是黑色的，而且很扭曲，前方有极高的铁质台阶，国王坐在高踞的椅子上，俯瞰着宫廷里的所有人……我的王座是一头阴森地矗立在国王大厅中的野兽，丑陋，而且不对称……HBO的王座却完全不是这样。”
Whichever throne fans prefer, millions of them will again be held hostage as the “Thrones” season ends Sunday night. (The show has been renewed for fifth and sixth seasons.) There are more than 31 million copies of the books in print, according to Bantam, and whenever the next novel, “The Winds of Winter,” arrives, it will probably be an instant best seller.
不管剧迷们更喜欢哪种王座，周日晚《权力的游戏》本季结束后，他们又得继续翘首企盼（该剧已被续订了第五季和第六季）。根据班特姆出版社，该书印了3100多万册，新书《凛冬的寒风》不管何时出版，很可能会马上成为畅销书。
The success of “Thrones” on TV has turned Mr. Martin into something of a star. A man of hobbitlike mirth and girth, he isn’t quite the classic People-driven figure of pop-culture stardom. “It’s been surreal,” he said during the interview. “You always hope for success. But this takes it to a whole other level, to being a celebrity, which has gotten old fast.”
《权力的游戏》电视剧的成功令马丁在某种程度上成了明星。作为一个霍比特人那样心宽体胖的人，他并不是流行文化明星界中那种典型的外表取胜的人物。“太不真实了，”他在采访中说，“你一直盼望着成功。但成为名人把这推向了另一面，名人老得快。”
Famous or not, Mr. Martin is still obliged to sit down each day and write because millions of agitated fans are waiting, hoping that “Winter” is coming — soon. He’s writing too slowly for some fans’ tastes, but quality takes time. When asked about his progress on “The Winds of Winter,” all Mr. Martin would say, a sigh tinting his voice, was, “It’s going along.”
不管出名不出名，马丁仍然必须每天坐下来写作，因为千百万焦急的粉丝都在等待、期盼着《凛冬的寒风》早日到来。对于有些书迷来说，他写得实在太慢，但保证质量是需要花时间的。被问到《凛冬的寒风》进展如何时，马丁的声音里带着一丝叹息，他只能说，“还在继续”。
It was the sigh of a good dreamer on deadline.
这是杰出的梦想家面临截稿期的叹息。