Tell me if you’ve heard this one before. A man wakes up and quickly realizes that he’s repeating yesterday, down to the last meal, salutation and conversation. He’s trapped in a kind of time loop. He can’t escape, but, he realizes, he can change. That may not make sense, given the logic of the space-time continuum, but it works just fine in fiction because, well, it’s fiction. To put it another way, “There are no paradoxes in time travel, there can’t be.” Or so says a character in Robert A. Heinlein’s 1964 novel, “Farnham’s Freehold,” about space, time and the apocalypse.
告诉我你以前听说过这个桥段没有。一个男人醒来后很快发现自己在不断重复着昨日的情景，包括上一顿饭，上次打招呼和谈话。他被困在一种时间循环之中，无法逃离，但他发现自己可以改变。因为时空的连续性，他所做的可能没有意义，但在这个虚构作品之中，效果却很好，因为毕竟这是虚构的。换句话说，“时间旅行中没有悖论，不会有的。”关于时间、空间与末日天启，罗伯特·A·海因莱因(Robert A. Heinlein)1964年的小说《法汉的赎身契》(Farnham’s Freehold)大致就是这么说的。
This time around, as it were, the hero isn’t trapped in the maddeningly cute town of Punxsutawney, Pa., as Bill Murray was in “Groundhog Day,” Harold Ramis’s mind- and clock-bending 1993 comedy masterwork. The guy caught in the loop here is played by Tom Cruise, a star who doesn’t do ordinary well. He plays Maj. William Cage, a sensationally adaptable individual who, when confronted with Armageddon, courtesy of scuttling extraterrestrials, would prefer to avoid the fight. But this is a Tom Cruise movie, and so stuff happens, and then it happens all over again and again and again, initially with an engagingly light, comic touch and then with escalating seriousness as Cage’s insouciance turns into gravitas in a war that has united the human world against the alien.
在哈罗德·雷米斯(Harold Ramis)1993年关于思想与时间错乱的喜剧杰作《土拨鼠之日》(Groundhog Day)中，比尔·默瑞(Bill Murray)被困在宾夕法尼亚州的普苏塔尼，一个令人受不了的精巧小镇里。本片的主人公却有所不同，受困的角色由汤姆·克鲁斯(Tom Cruise)饰演，这位明星没法做普通的事。他饰演威廉·凯奇少校(Maj. William Cage)，一个极其擅长适应环境的人，面对飞速而至的外星人带来的末日大对决，他更希望阻止战争。但这是一部汤姆·克鲁斯主演的电影，所以俗套少不了，之后一切就一再、一再、一再重现，先是一束迷人的光线、滑稽的接触，之后变得愈来愈严肃，凯奇的漫不经心慢慢变成了人类联合起来反抗外星人战争中的庄严举止。
The plot for “Edge of Tomorrow,” which was directed by Doug Liman, has largely been gleaned from “All You Need Is Kill,” a splatter-heavy combat novel by the Japanese writer Hiroshi Sakurazaka. Mr. Sakurazaka doesn’t acknowledge “Groundhog Day,” but he names his heroine Rita — the name of the romantic foil played by Andie MacDowell in that film — suggesting that he is obliquely paying a debt. The debt is more pronounced in the movie, in which Mr. Liman leavens Mr. Sakurazaka’s mordant, too-cool-for-school humor with some wit and a touch of romance with another lovely Rita, this one played by Emily Blunt. Mr. Liman ’s track record with strong female characters, like Angelina Jolie’s in his bullet-ridden comedy of remarriage, “Mr. & Mrs. Smith,” bodes well for Rita.
《明日边缘》由道格·利曼(Doug Liman)导演，其情节大部分来自日本作家樱坂洋血肉横飞的格斗小说《杀戮轮回》(All You Need Is Kill)。樱坂洋并没有向《土拨鼠之日》致谢，但他给女主人公起名“丽塔”，这正是该片中安迪·麦克道尔(Andie MacDowell)饰演的浪漫的女配角的名字，这说明他在间接地致谢。这种致敬在影片中更为明显，利曼所塑造的丽塔很可爱，在樱坂洋尖锐、非常酷的幽默中潜移默化地加上了一些智慧，以及一点浪漫色彩，由艾米莉·布朗特(Emily Blunt)饰演。利曼以前的影片中都有强悍的女性角色，比如枪战婚恋喜剧《史密斯夫妇》(Mr. & Mrs. Smith)中的安吉丽娜·朱莉(Angelina Jolie)，丽塔也不例外。
“Edge of Tomorrow,” which has a script credited to Christopher McQuarrie and Jez and John-Henry Butterworth, opens with lock-jawed earnestness and news reports of a global calamity. Extraterrestrials, kinetic creatures called Mimics that look like somersaulting metal octopuses, have conquered most of Europe with their lashing tentacles and are poised to take over the rest of the world. On the eve of a coordinated human assault on the aliens, Cage, a flack for the American military, is called into the office of a general, Brigham (Brendan Gleeson), and told that he’ll be covering D-Day from the front. Cage demurs, raising his brow and breaking out a small, disbelieving smile before beginning a soft-shoe shuffle toward the door.
《明日边缘》的剧本由克里斯托弗·麦奎里·耶兹(Christopher McQuarrieand Jez)和约翰-亨利·巴特沃斯(John-Henry Butterworth)创作，一开始便显示出令人惊呆的诚意，还有关于全球灾难的新闻播报。被称为“模仿者”(Mimics)的活跃外星生物看上去很像会翻跟头的金属章鱼，靠着鞭子般的长须占领了大部分欧洲，并打算接着攻占整个世界。在人类联合对外星人发起进攻的前夕，美军的宣传官员凯奇被叫进布里格姆将军（Brigham，布莱丹·格里森[Brendan Gleson]饰演）的办公室，被告知他将在进攻日被派往前线做报道。凯奇表示异议，他扬起眉毛、脸上露出怀疑的微笑，最后磨磨蹭蹭向门口走去。
This song-and-dance rapidly shifts your understanding of whom Mr. Cruise is playing and how. He’s funny! And watching him glide through the opening of “Edge of Tomorrow” — a suggestion of “Jerry Maguire” edging his smile — it’s hard not to think, Where has this guy been? It’s been years since Mr. Cruise felt this light on screen. His smile might have helped make him a star but, like Julia Roberts’s megawatt grin, it rarely beams as brightly as it once did. Part of this is due to his status as an action star. Yet it’s also traceable to a dearth of decent male-female romances and the ascension of mostly male yuk-fests like the gross-out burlesque “Tropic Thunder,” in which he dances in a fat suit.
接下来的歌舞会迅速改变你对克鲁斯所饰演的这个角色，乃至克鲁斯演技的认识。他很好玩！看着他在《明日边缘》开头流畅的表演——他的微笑令你想起《甜心先生》(Jerry Maguire)——很难不去想，这个男人之前到底去哪儿了。克鲁斯已经好久没有在银幕上这么轻松了。他的微笑或许在早年对他成为明星有帮助，但是，正如茱莉亚·罗伯茨(Julia Roberts)的大嘴巴笑容一样，他的笑容看起来好像也不像以前那么灿烂了。部分是因为他的身份已经变成了动作明星。也是因为他接的片子里，像样的男女浪漫片不多，倒是有很多男星为主的喜剧大片，比如充满争议的滑稽片《热带惊雷》(Tropic Thunder)，他在其中穿着肥大的西装跳舞。
In “Edge of Tomorrow,” Mr. Liman brings Mr. Cruise’s smile out of semiretirement and also gives him the kind of physical challenges at which he so brilliantly excels. Mr. Cruise’s great talent has always been body-based; he doesn’t put across complex emotional shadings, tunneling so deep into a character’s psychology that it can feel like a transmogrification. Much like old-school, pre-Method movie stars, he takes possession of his characters from the outside in, expressing their qualities and kinks through his extraordinarily controlled physicality. This kind of performance can be easy to overlook, shrugged off as little more than stunt work, as if acting through the whole body were somehow inferior to emoting with a big, TV-friendly face.
在《明日边缘》里，利曼又带回了克鲁斯已经接近退休的微笑，也带给他体能上的挑战，克鲁斯完成得非常漂亮。克鲁斯的才华总是依靠身体，他并没有复杂的情感深度，不会像变异一样去深入挖掘角色的心理状态。他更像老式的、前方法派的电影明星，从外部把握角色，表现角色的品质，娴熟使用自己精心控制的肉体。这样的表演很容易遭人忽略，被人觉得顶多比噱头强一点，仿佛用整个身体去表演要比电视剧中经常出现的感情丰富的面孔低一等似的。
As expected, there are wow-worthy stunts and high-flying bodies in “Edge of Tomorrow,” which finds its groove after Cage discovers that he’s on seemingly endless repeat. In time, he figures out what’s going on and sets out to change fate, which leads him to Rita, a legendary warrior with the cutesy moniker Full Metal Bitch. Any thought that the diminutive-looking Ms. Blunt may not be up to that nickname is put to rest with Rita’s introduction, which shows her holding a fiercely beautiful yoga pose in a combat-training area while whirring blades circle her. It’s a perfect encapsulation of the yin and yang quality that enriches her character and the story, as when she and Cage, like a cloak-and-dagger Fred and Ginger, dart and dodge through a mission with perfect synchronicity.
如人们所料，《明日边缘》中也有一些让人目瞪口呆的奇观，以及身体在空中飞来飞去的场面，在凯奇发现自己处于无穷无尽的循环后变得美妙起来。过了一段时间后，他搞清了状况，开始着手改变命运，于是他遇到了传奇战士丽塔，她有个做作的绰号“全金属贱人”。觉得身材娇小的布朗特配不上这个绰号的人，要到丽塔出场，才会明白这个绰号从何而来，她一亮相就是在格斗训练场上摆出一个极其美妙的瑜伽姿势，周围都是呼啸的利刃。阴阳相济的完美特质令她的性格与整个故事都更加丰满，她和凯奇就像配合默契的弗莱迪与金格(Fred and Ginger，美国早期歌舞电影的明星搭档——译注)，在执行任务时默契地进攻和闪避。
Eventually, Mr. Liman’s eccentricities and the morbidly funny neo-screwball vibe that he establishes are swamped by generic pyrotechnics and noise. That’s predictable, given the high studio stakes and the industry’s faith in spectacles of destruction, but it doesn’t obliterate the movie’s pleasures. In his afterword to “All You Need Is Kill,” Mr. Sakurazaka explains that he was thinking about video games while writing the novel. “I reset the game hundreds of times,” he writes, “until my special attack finally went off perfectly.” In other words, video games are a type of time machine that allows players, if they put in the hours, to achieve victory. Hence the movie’s clever tagline, “Live, Die, Repeat,” which, of course, echoes the faith that every film genre fan embraces: live, watch, repeat.
最后，利曼的古怪气质与他营造的病态有趣的新搞怪(neo-screwball)感被淹没在类型片的焰火与喧嚣之中。鉴于制片公司为该片投下重金，而整个工业都在追求破坏的大场面，这是可以预料的，但仍然无法抹杀整部影片给人带来的快乐。樱坂洋在《杀戮轮回》的后记中说，自己在写书时想的是电脑游戏。“我上百次地重启游戏，”他写道，“直到我的特别攻击技能终于达到完美。”换言之，电脑游戏是一种时间机器，让愿意投入几个小时的玩家取得胜利。所以影片聪明的宣传词“生存、死亡、重复”也正好符合了类型电影的粉丝们的信念：生存、观看、重复。