“The Newsroom” begins its truncated, six-episode final season on HBO on Sunday, and its pilgrim’s progress through 21st-century American journalism has brought it to the Boston Marathon bombings. This gives Aaron Sorkin, the writer of record on every episode, plenty of opportunities for finger-wagging as his fictional ACN cable news crew watches less meticulous or fortunate outlets falsely naming suspects and bannering photos of innocent people.
星期日，HBO台开始播放《新闻编辑室》(The Newsroom)的最终季。这一季遭到删减，只有六集，这一次，它的21世纪美国新闻主义朝圣之旅来到了波士顿马拉松爆炸事件中。亚伦·索金(Aaron Sorkin)撰写了该剧的所有剧本，剧中虚构的ACN有线台员工们看着鲁莽抑或不走运的消息渠道错误地给出嫌疑人的姓名，公然贴出无辜者的照片示众，这些情节也给了索金许多针砭时弊的机会。
The First Amendment warriors of ACN are last to the story because of their leaders’ old-school reluctance to use Twitter as a source. In part, this looks like a statement of principle from Mr. Sorkin. The new season, three episodes of which were sent to critics, intensifies his general critique of social media as a tool for gathering and distributing news, with page clicks driving news judgment. (He hedges his bets by having his protagonist, the “News Night” anchor Will McAvoy, appear sympathetic to the new ways.)
ACN的这些第一修正案的捍卫者们是最后报道这则新闻的，因为它的领导们有着老派作风，不愿使用Twitter作为信息源。这在某种程度上也可以看做是索金在宣告自己的原则。新的一季中，目前已有三集被拿给评论家试看。对于社交媒体成为收集和散布新闻的工具，乃至新闻价值判断受点击率趋使的现象，索金在总体上持批判态度，这在目前的三集中得到强调（不过索金的保险作风体现在让该剧主角，“晚间新闻”的主播威尔·麦克沃伊[Will McAvoy]对新媒体也显示出一些同情）。
But the journalists’ hesitation also makes sense dramatically, because they’re still feeling the effects of their colossal blunder in Season 2, when they broadcast a false report accusing the American military of using sarin gas. It was a mistake for them and for “The Newsroom” — the show stopped making sense late in Season 2, when the whole news crew offered to resign but no one ended up leaving. The show doesn’t have to be scrupulously realistic about the news business, but some things — like falsely accusing the Marines and then not firing anyone — are harder to overlook than others.
但是记者们的犹豫也有重大意义，因为他们仍然能够感受到第二季那场重大失误的余波，当时他们发布了一则错误报道，指责美国军方使用沙林毒气。这对他们来说是个错误，对于《新闻编辑室》来说也是个错误——到第二季末期，整个新闻组要求辞职，但最后没有人离开，使得这部剧失去了它的意义。剧集并不一定要对新闻行业采取一丝不苟的写实主义，但有些东西——比如错误地指控了海军陆战队后却没有解雇任何人——令人更加难以忽略。
Season 3 begins with both ACN and Mr. Sorkin in a tamped-down, focused mode. That’s generally a good thing. Some unhealthy story lines have been cauterized — in particular, the junior producer Maggie Jordan (Alison Pill) has apparently gotten over the trauma of her deadly assignment in Africa.
第三季一开头，ACN与索金都处在极度压抑，高度紧张的状态。这通常是件好事。某些不健康的线索得到了净化——特别是初级制作人玛吉·乔丹（Maggie Jordan，艾莉森·皮尔[Alison Pill]饰），她似乎已经克服了在非洲那场生死任务所带来的创伤。
And after the lessons of the Boston coverage are dispensed in Episode 1, Mr. Sorkin moves the action, entertainingly, into conspiracy-thriller territory. A whistle-blower contacts the young tech whiz Neal Sampat (Dev Patel) and delivers 27,000 government documents. The source is introduced Edward Snowden-style, with blind emails about encryption, but is really the anti-Snowden, determined to remain anonymous. This allows Mr. Sorkin to make the story about risking jail to protect the source, rather than spending months vetting classified documents.
在第一集中，就波士顿事件报道上过课之后，索金又以娱乐的方式把目光转向惊悚阴谋论的领域。有个内部举报者与年轻的技术天才尼尔·萨姆帕特（Neal Sampat，戴夫·帕特尔[Deve Patel]饰）联系，提供了2.7万份政府文件。这个线人采取的是爱德华·斯诺登的方式——先是发来匿名电子邮件，说起关于加密的问题——但他其实与斯诺登截然不同，坚决要求保持匿名。这样索金就可以编个甘冒牢狱之灾保护线人的故事，而不是花费数月时间核查分类文件。
What’s missing in Season 3, so far, is Mr. Sorkin’s romantic side — his ability to go big with a certain kind of male-centric, over-the-top-but-still-charming screwball passion. The bedrock of “The Newsroom” early on was the curdled romance between Will and his producer, MacKenzie McHale (Emily Mortimer).
到目前为止，索金在第三季中还未展现出浪漫的一面——他本来有能力成功塑造某种男性中心、居高临下而又颇具魅力的神经质热情。威尔和他的制作人麦肯锡·麦克希尔（MacKenzie McHale，艾米莉·莫迪默[Emily Mortimer]饰）之间凝练的恋情曾是《新闻编辑室》早期剧情的基础。
That has run its course — in Season 3 they’re planning a wedding — and the rom-com duties have been shifted to Don (the excellent Thomas Sadoski) and Sloan (Olivia Munn). Their scenes don’t sweep you away, but some are very funny. Also funny is a scene in which Will’s interview with a climate-change pessimist, slyly played by Paul Lieberstein of “The Office,” goes awry, and any scene involving Jane Fonda as the network’s owner, who’s fighting off a hostile takeover.
这段恋情的发展已经到了尽头——第三季中，他们开始筹备婚礼，浪漫喜剧的戏份交给了唐（Don，托马斯·萨多斯基[Thomas Sadoski]精彩出演）和斯隆（奥莉薇娅·玛恩[Olivia Munn]饰）。他们的剧情不会把你迷倒，但有些地方也很有趣。另外，威尔采访一个对气候变化持悲观论调者的情景也很有趣，此人由曾出演《办公室》(The Office)的保罗·利博斯坦(Paul Lieberstein)饰演，采访的局面变得有点乱套。还有简·方达(Jane Fonda)饰演的电视网老板在剧中与一场恶意收购进行斗争，相关的所有情节都很精彩。