The author of “Sex and the City” and, most recently, “Killing Monica” went through an early Nietzsche and Camus phase: “For some reason, nihilism felt like the right sort of mentality for an 18- to 21-year-old.”
《欲望都市》(Sex and the City)的作者最近出版了一本名叫《杀了莫妮卡》(Killing Monica)的新书。作者曾在早期的一段时间里专读尼采(Nietzsche)和加缪(Camus)，她说：“不知道为什么，虚无主义似乎是18至21岁的年轻人的一种心态。”
What books are currently on your night stand?
问：你的床头柜上现在放着哪些书？
I have books piled up everywhere. In no particular order: “Jane Eyre”; Paul Auster’s “Report From the Interior”; “Hyperbole and a Half,” by Allie Brosh; “The Technologists,” by Matthew Pearl; “Let the Great World Spin,” by Colum McCann; “Evil Under the Sun,” by Agatha Christie; “Outline,” by Rachel Cusk; “The Good House,” by Ann Leary; “The Long Secret,” by Louise Fitzhugh; “Peyton Place”; “The Rumor,” by Elin Hilderbrand; and “A Sport and a Pastime,” by James Salter.
答：我在哪儿都堆着书。没有特定的顺序：《简爱》(Jane Eyre)、保罗·奥斯特(Paul Auster)的《来自内部的报告》(Report From the Interior)、艾莉·布洛许(Allie Brosh)的《艾莉的夸张人生》(Hyperbole and a Half)、马修·珀尔(Matthew Pearl)的《技术专家》(The Technologists)、科伦·麦凯恩(Colum McCann)的《转吧，这伟大的世界》(Let the Great World Spin)、阿加莎·克里斯蒂(Agatha Christie)的《阳光下的罪恶》(Evil Under the Sun)、瑞切·卡斯克(Rachel Cusk)的《轮廓》(Outline)、安·丽儿(Ann Leary)的《好房子》(The Good House)、路易丝·菲茨休(Louise Fitzhugh)的《漫长的秘密》(The Long Secret)，以及《冷暖人间》(Peyton Place)、埃琳·希尔德勃兰特(Elin Hilderbrand)的《谣言》(The Rumor)和詹姆斯·萨尔特(James Salter)的《一种运动，一种消遣》(A Sport and a Pastime)。
Who is your favorite novelist of all time? 
问：一直以来，你最喜欢的小说家是谁？
It would have to be Flaubert for “Sentimental Education.”
答：肯定是写下《情感教育》(Sentimental Education)的福楼拜(Flaubert)。
Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine?
问：谁是你最喜欢的虚构的男主人公或女主人公？
Undine Spragg in Edith Wharton’s “Custom of the Country” is certainly one of the most interesting. She’s emblematic of the likable/unlikable heroine debate that still plagues female writers today. Unlike Madame Bovary, Becky Sharp and Anna Karenina, Wharton doesn’t romanticize or elicit pity for Undine, nor does she redeem her or kill her off in the end. Undine simply goes on, as greedily ambitious as ever. I suppose if she lived today, she’d be a bit like one of the Kardashians.
答：伊迪丝·沃顿(Edith Wharton)《乡村习俗》(Custom of the Country)中的温迪妮·斯普拉格(Undine Spragg)无疑是最有意思的主人公之一，她代表着女主人公是否讨人喜欢的那种争论。许多女性作家现今仍为这种争论苦恼。沃顿没有让温迪妮像包法利夫人(Madame Bovary)、贝姬·夏普(Becky Sharp)或安娜·卡列尼娜(Anna Karenina)那样浪漫化，也没有用这个人物博得同情，没有在结尾令她获得救赎或让她死去。温迪妮一如既往地贪婪、野心勃勃。我觉得，如果她活到今天，会有点像卡戴珊姐妹(Kardashian)中的一个。
What kind of reader were you as a child? Who were your favorite authors?
问：你小时候是怎样的读者？最喜欢的作家是哪些？
Reading was huge in my family. As a child, our typical family outing was a visit to the library. I was the proverbial kid with her nose in a book. Kindly strangers would remark that all that reading would eventually lead to bad eyesight, and they were right. I was the first kid in my grade to need glasses.
答：读书在我们家是极其重要的事。小时候，我们最典型的外出活动就是去图书馆。我是那种人们常说的“把鼻子钻进书本”的小孩。热心善良的陌生人会说，那种看书方式会导致糟糕的视力。他们说的没错。我是年级里第一个需要戴眼镜的孩子。
My younger sisters and I read all the great kids’ books — the Narnias and the Roald Dahls, the Eloises, the “Little House on the Prairie” series. My favorites were books where the kids lived in New York City: “Harriet the Spy” and “From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler.” What I remember most about childhood reading was how powerfully books seized the imaginations of my sisters and me. Books were a call to action: “Harriet the Spy” inspired us to make our own “tool kits” and hide in the bushes outside the house of our elderly neighbors. And thanks to the Narnia chronicles, we were forever looking around for mysterious cupboards or magical paintings that could transport us into another world.
我和我的妹妹们一起把所有伟大的儿童书都读了——《纳尼亚传奇》(Narnia)系列、罗尔德·达尔(Roald Dahl)和埃路易斯(Eloise)的全部作品、《草原小屋》(Little House on the Prairie)系列。我最喜欢那些讲述家住纽约市的小孩的书：《小间谍哈瑞特》(Harriet the Spy)和《天使雕像》(From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler)。童年的阅读让我印象最深刻的是，书籍可以如此强大地抓住我和妹妹们的想象力。书籍号召你去做点什么：《小间谍哈瑞特》促使我们制作自己的“工具包”，藏在年迈邻居的房子外面的灌木丛里。《纳尼亚传奇》让我们一直四处寻找能把自己运往另一世界的神秘柜子或神奇的画。
Those books still continue to have an effect on me. Recently, over roast duck at Mr. Chow’s, a Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist and I started cooking up a plot to spend the night in the New York Public Library like the kids in “From the Mixed-Up Files.”
那些书至今仍影响着我。前不久，我和一位普利策获奖小说家在Mr. Chow’s餐馆吃烤鸭，我们酝酿着像《天使雕像》中的孩子们一样，在纽约公共图书馆(New York Public Library)度过当天夜晚。
What was the best thing you read as a teenager?
问：青少年时期，你读的最好的书是什么？
In ninth grade I was obsessed with “Groucho and Me,” an autobiography by Groucho Marx. It was tucked away on some obscure shelf labeled, innocuously enough, “Comedy.” I was convinced I was the only person in the entire school who knew of the existence of this book. I quickly realized that no matter how bad high school became, I could always go to that shelf, where I could sit on the carpet and be with Groucho Marx instead. I may, in fact, have spent the entire four years of high school in that library aisle.
答：九年级时，我迷上了《格劳乔和我》(Groucho and Me)，这是一部格劳乔·马克斯(Groucho Marx)自传。它被塞在一个不起眼的书架上。这个书架被贴了一个无关痛痒的标签：“喜剧”。我确信整座学校里只有我知道这本书的存在。我还很快意识到，不管高中变得多么糟糕，我都能去那个书架，坐在那片地毯上，和格劳乔·马克斯一起呆着。实际上，整个高中四年或许我都是在图书馆的那条通道上呆着的。
Then I went through a huge Kurt Vonnegut phase, followed by an obsession with anything that was considered nihilism. Nietzsche; “L’Étranger,” by Camus. For some reason, nihilism felt like the right sort of mentality for an 18- to 21-year-old. Then, of course, one grows up and has to get a job. During my 20s, I was fixated on Joseph Heller’s “Something Happened.” I think it’s one of the greatest American books of its time.
在那以后的很长时间，我专读库尔特·冯内古特(Kurt Vonnegut)。随即，迷上了任何被称为虚无主义的东西。尼采(Nietzsche)和加缪(Camus)的《局外人》(L’Étranger)。不知道为什么，虚无主义似乎是18至21岁的年轻人的一种心态。当然，之后人们会长大，会找一份工作。二十多岁时，我被拴在约瑟夫·海勒(Joseph Heller)的《出事了》(Something Happened)上。我觉得这本书是那个时代美国最伟大的书籍之一。
What was the last book that made you laugh? 
问：上一本让你大笑的书是什么？
“The Old Man and Me,” by Elaine Dundy.
答：伊莱娜·丹迪(Elaine Dundy)的《老人与我》(The Old Man and Me)。
What would we be surprised to find on your shelves?
问：你书架上的什么书会让我们感到意外？
Cookbooks, I suppose. I have two battered copies of the “Joy of Cooking” — one hardcover, one paperback. Also two hardcover Julia Childs, but what I can’t find anywhere is the paperback version my mother used in the 1970s that had all my favorite recipes.
答：我猜是烹饪书。我有两本破旧的《烹饪的乐趣》(Joy of Cooking)，一本精装，一本平装。还有两本精装版朱丽叶·查尔德(Julia Childs)烹饪书，但是我在哪儿也找不到我妈妈在20世纪70年代用的那个平装版本，里面有所有我最喜欢的菜谱。
If you had to name one book that made you who you are today, what would it be?
问：如果你必须选一本对你影响最大的书，你会选哪本？
“A Handful of Dust,” by Evelyn Waugh, was a real game-changer for me. I read it for the first time when I was 12 and remember feeling like certain aspects of life suddenly clicked into place. It was my first encounter with irony, social satire and dark humor in literature, and it clarified the kind of writing I wanted to do.
答：伊夫林·沃(Evelyn Waugh)的《一抔土》(A Handful of Dust)真的改变了我。12岁时我第一次读它，感觉生命的某些方面豁然开朗。那是我第一次在文学中看到反讽、社会讥嘲和黑色幽默，它向我展示了我渴望的写作方式。
You’re hosting a literary dinner party. Which three writers are invited?
问：如果举办一个文学晚宴派对，你会邀请哪三位作家？
Dawn Powell, who I imagine as being the best company, along with Edith Wharton and Mary McCarthy. I can’t even imagine what it would be like. Should one serve cocktails or champagne? Both, I suppose.
答：道恩·鲍威尔(Dawn Powell)——在我的想象中，她会是最好的陪伴。还有伊迪丝·沃顿和玛丽·麦卡锡(Mary McCarthy)。我甚至想象不出这会是怎样的情形。我应该准备鸡尾酒还是香槟？我想，两种都要。
What book hasn’t been written that you’d like to read? And what book has been written that you wish you’d never read?
问：有没有什么书是你想读，但目前还没人写的？有哪本书你读了，却希望自己从没读过？
The book I’d like to read would be called “World Without Men.” I’ve been wanting to write it since I was 8 years old and realized I had the soul of a radical feminist. As for things I wish I’d never read: every super-scary scene in a Stephen King novel.
答：我想读但还没人写出来的书应该叫《没有男人的世界》(World Without Men)。从8岁起我就想写这样一本书，我意识到，我内心深处是个激进的女权主义者。至于希望从未读过的东西，应该是斯蒂芬·金(Stephen King)小说中所有超级恐怖的场景。
What books do you find yourself returning to again and again?
问：有哪些书是你读了很多遍的？
I’ve always written with books scattered around my desk as touchstones for inspiration. When I’m working and lose focus, I’ll pick one up and read a passage or two to get back on track. When I was writing “The Carrie Diaries,” it was “The Bell Jar.” Right now I see Iris Murdoch’s “An Accidental Man” and Virginia Woolf’s “Melymbrosia,” which is actually an early draft of what would become “The Voyage Out.” Also Philip Roth’s “Zuckerman Unbound,” along with a big, juicy edition of collected Jeeves and Wooster novels.
答：我总是把书桌上散落的书当作是灵感的试金石。工作时，如果失去专注，我就会拿起一本读上一两段，从而回到正轨。写《凯莉日记》(The Carrie Diaries)时，我读了《钟形罩》(The Bell Jar)。现在读的是艾丽丝·默多克(Iris Murdoch)的《附属男人》(An Accidental Man)和弗吉尼亚·伍尔夫(Virginia Woolf)的《Melymbrosia》，后者实际上是她《远航》(The Voyage Out)的初期草稿。还有菲利普·罗斯(Philip Roth)的《被释放的祖克曼》(Zuckerman Unbound)，以及一大套有趣的《万能管家》(Jeeves and Wooster)精选系列小说。
I also have “under the weather” books. For instance, if I’m sick for a few days, I will read “Blonde,” by Joyce Carol Oates. It never fails to mesmerize. I’ve read it at least 10 times.
我还有“身体不适”时读的书。例如，如果我病了几天，我会读乔伊斯·卡罗尔·欧茨(Joyce Carol Oates)的《金发女郎》(Blonde)。我永远会被它迷住。已经至少读了十遍。
What books are you embarrassed not to have read yet?
问：哪些没读过的书会让你难为情？
I’m too old to be embarrassed by books I haven’t read, people I haven’t slept with and parties I haven’t gone to. However, the one writer I’ve never been able to tolerate is Proust.
答：我这么大年纪，不会再为没读过的书、没睡过的人或者没参加的聚会而难为情了吧。不过，我一直无法忍受的一位作家是普鲁斯特(Proust)。
If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be? 
问：如果给美国总统布置一本书读，你会选哪本？
Forget the president. If I could require every person to read one book, it would be “Demonic Males: Apes and the Origins of Human Violence.” It provides a startling and frightening insight into violence, rape and the basic male psyche. It’s scarier than any Hollywood horror movie.
答：不说总统了。如果我能给所有人布置一本书，这本书会是《雄性暴力：人类社会的乱源》(Demonic Males: Apes and the Origins of Human Violence)。它对暴力、强奸和男性的基本心态进行了令人震惊和恐惧的深刻剖析。比任何好莱坞恐怖电影都更可怕。
Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel you were supposed to like, and didn’t? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?
问：有没有什么书让你觉得失望、过分宣传或者非常一般，觉得本应该喜欢，却没有喜欢的？你还记得上一本没读完就放弃的书吗？
I think there’s a “musicality” to novels, so for me, the author’s voice is critical. There are lots of books that aren’t necessarily “great literature,” and yet I find it pleasant to spend a few hours with the author’s voice. On the other hand, there are many books that others revere in which I simply can’t bear the author’s voice. I’ll always put these books down within the first 10 pages.
答：我觉得小说有一种“音乐性”，所以对我来说，作者的声音很重要。有很多书不一定是“伟大的文学作品”，但我发现花几个小时和这位作者的声音在一起很愉快。另外，有很读书别人很敬畏，但书中的作者的声音我无法忍受。对于这种书，看不到第十页我就会放下。
What turns me off most is literary pretentiousness. It forces the reader to think about the author instead of allowing the strength of the story to come through.
我最受不了的是文学的自命不凡。它强迫读者去思考作者，而不是自然呈现故事本身的力量。
What do you plan to read next?
问：接下来你计划读什么？
This Q. and A.! I’ll probably read it and tweak it 50 more times before I let it go. Technology may have changed how and where we get our books, but that old adage about writing remains the same: Writing is rewriting.
答：读这篇问答文章！我很可能要改50遍才能放过它。科技或许改变了人们获取书的途径和源头，但关于写作的那句古老格言没变：写即重写(Writing is rewriting)。