“Born in China,” another animals-are-just-like-people film from the Disneynature brand, has two of the natural world’s more adorable creatures in it, pandas and kitties. But some scraggly looking antelopes provide the most impressive imagery in a film that otherwise doesn’t stand out photographically.
在迪士尼自然(Disneynature)出品的又一部“动物和人没什么两样”式影片《我们诞生在中国》(Born in China)中，有两种自然世界最招人喜欢的动物：大熊猫和小猫咪。然而作为一部摄影角度讲并不出彩的影片，它最让人难忘的画面却是几只其貌不扬的羚羊。
The movie takes us all over China to see four species in their natural habitats, some of which are exceedingly remote. There are kitties — oh, all right; they’re snow leopards, a mother and two cubs. There’s a panda and her cub. There’s a young snub-nosed monkey that, at least in the irksome narrative imposed here, is feeling neglected because of the arrival of a baby sister.
影片带领我们前往中国各地观察四个身处自然栖息地的物种，其中一些地方非常偏远。这些小猫咪——好吧，准确说他们是雪豹，一个妈妈和两个孩子。另外还有一只大熊猫和她的孩子。一只年幼的金丝猴由于一个小妹妹的到来，感到自己被忽视了——至少影片强加的烦人解说是这么理解。
A Tibetan antelope, or chiru, doesn’t get quite the screen time of these others — and isn’t even mentioned in some of the advance publicity for the movie — but footage of a long migration by the females of a herd to a calving ground and the arrival of a calf is among the most remarkable in the movie. Maybe that’s just because pandas and even the elusive snow leopard have become overexposed with the abundance of nature documentaries these days; this film looks pretty much like any of the best material to be found on the National Geographic Channel, PBS’s “Nature” and elsewhere.
藏羚得到的戏份比其他动物少——在影片的某些先期推出的推广资料里甚至提都不提，但是一群母藏羚羊长途迁徙前往生育地的画面，却是全片最震撼的。也许这只是因为，大熊猫乃至神出鬼没的雪豹在如今的自然纪录片里太过常见，影片看上去和美国《国家地理频道》(National Geographic Channel)、PBS的《自然》(Nature)等等地方出品的佳作并无太大区别。
In any case, the narrative, read by John Krasinski, is kid-friendly in a cloying sort of way, and unpleasant realities like pollution are not mentioned. So as an introduction for children to exotic creatures in picturesque landscapes, the movie is harmless enough.
但归根结底，由约翰·卡拉辛斯基(John Krasinski)担任的解说是面向儿童的那种腻烦腔调，并且没有提及污染造成的令人不安的现实。因此，作为在如画的风光中向孩子们介绍异域动物的影片，它好歹不会有什么坏处。