Karl Ove Knausgaard, the powerful Norwegian novelist, is a weeper. Life gets to him. He cries all over the place in the first three volumes of his six-part autobiographical novel, “My Struggle,” especially in Books One and Three. His emotions are right on the surface.
有影响力的挪威小说家卡尔·奥韦·诺斯加德(Karl Ove Knausgaard)很爱哭。生活常常让他想哭。在他的六册自传体小说《我的奋斗》(My Struggle)的前三册中，他一直在哭，特别是第一册和第三册。他的情绪显而易见。
He blubbers about beauty, about shame, about the death of cats, about art, about John McEnroe’s tennis defeats, about movies, about fatherhood, about rejection, about love, about fear. He sobs as boy, teenager and man. You consistently want to hand him Visine, a box of Kleenex and a pair of dark sunglasses.
他为各种事情哭：美，羞辱，小猫去世，艺术，约翰·麦肯罗(John McEnroe)网球比赛失败，电影，父权，拒绝，爱和恐惧。从儿时、青少年到成年，他经常哭。你不时地想递给他一瓶滴眼液，一盒纸巾和一副深色墨镜。
Perhaps the most telling cathartic leak in Mr. Knausgaard’s extraordinary oeuvre arrives in Book Two of “My Struggle.” It’s when the narrator, also named Karl Ove Knausgaard, puts on Emmylou Harris’s “Anthology” CD while waiting for his wife to finish breast-feeding their daughter. The music’s beauty sneaks up and overwhelms him.
也许诺斯加德的全部杰作中最直白的感情宣泄在《我的奋斗》的第二册中。叙述者——也叫卡尔·奥韦·诺斯加德——在等妻子给女儿哺乳时播放了爱美萝·哈里斯(Emmylou Harris)的《选集》(Anthology)CD。音乐的美悄悄渗透到他心里，征服了他。
“Before I knew what was happening, my eyes were moist,” he writes. “It was only then that I realized how little I normally felt, how numb I had become. When I was 18, I was full of such feelings all the time, the world seemed more intense, and that was why I wanted to write, it was the sole reason, I wanted to touch something that music touched. The human voice’s lament and sorrow, joy and delight, I wanted to evoke everything the world had bestowed upon us.”
“不知不觉，我的眼睛湿润了，”他写道，“直到那时我才意识到我平常感受到的多么少，我已经变得多么麻木。18岁时，我一直充满了强烈的感觉，当时的世界似乎更激烈，那是我想写作的原因，它是唯一的原因，我希望触摸到音乐能触摸的某种东西。人类声音的哀痛与悲伤，快乐与欢愉，我想唤醒这世界赋予我们的所有东西。”
This paragraph, in some ways, is “My Struggle” in a freeze-dried form. It gets at the simplicity and occasional gawkiness of Mr. Knausgaard’s prose. It also gets at the bedrock theme of this string of novels. The author’s struggle is to feel intensely. Despite his bouts of weeping, he is mostly remote and unhappy, unplugged from existence, a blue-eyed zombie going through the paces of adult life. He fears that he feels alive only when he’s writing, during the transubstantiation — a kind of reverse tattooing — of blood into ink.
从某种程度上讲，这段话是《我的奋斗》的总结。它体现了诺斯加德文字的朴素和偶尔的稚拙。它也体现了这一系列小说的根本主题。这位作家的奋斗目标是强烈地感受。尽管他经常哭泣，但他大部分时候是孤僻、不快乐的，与生存疏离，像个忍受成人生活节奏的蓝眼睛僵尸。他担心只有在写作时，在把血变成墨水的转化过程中——像一种逆向的纹身——他才能强烈地感受。
The volume before us today is Book Three of “My Struggle,” subtitled “Boyhood.” It charts in topographical detail the author’s childhood with his family (father, mother and brother) on an island along the southern coast of Norway. This follows Book One, about the reverberations of the death of Mr. Knausgaard’s cold and alcoholic father, and Book Two, about the author’s marriage to Linda, his second wife.
今天摆在我们面前的是《我的奋斗》的第三册，名叫《少年时代》(Boyhood)。它详细描述了作者和家人（父亲、母亲和哥哥）在挪威南海岸的一个小岛上度过的童年。第一册讲述的是诺斯加德冷酷、酗酒的父亲去世后的余波，第二册讲述的是作者与第二任妻子琳达(Linda)的婚姻。
This is probably the place to remark that, before last week, I’d read none of these novels. I knew little about Mr. Knausgaard’s epic beyond its beatific critical reception, and beyond the news that Ladbrokes began tracking his odds of winning the Nobel Prize in Literature two years ago, when he was all of 43. (Although Mr. Knausgaard now lives in Sweden, there is so much Swede-bashing in his work — he finds the country’s people to be banal conformists — that it would be amusing if he won.)
我也许应该在这里说明一下，上周之前，我没有看过这些小说中的任何一本。我对诺斯加德史诗般的作品的了解，仅限于批评家们对它们的好评，以及立博博彩公司在两年前他年满43岁后开始对他获得诺贝尔文学奖的几率进行追踪的新闻（虽然诺斯加德现在住在瑞典，但是他作品中对瑞典多有抨击——他觉得该国人民平庸，墨守成规——如果他赢了一定很有意思）。
I fell into the first two books of “My Struggle” as if I were falling into a malarial fever. I did little else for four days except devour them, leaving email unanswered, dogs unwalked, dishes piling up in the sink. The steady headlamps of his prose stun and mesmerize you, as if you were a lumbering mammal caught in the middle of a highway.
我对《我的奋斗》的前两册入迷的感觉像是得了疟疾。有四天的时间，除了如饥似渴地读这两本书，我几乎什么都不干，邮件也不回，狗也不遛，盘子在洗碗池里堆成了山。我就像一只困在高速路中间的笨拙的动物，他的文章像汽车大灯一样持续不断地把我晃昏。
Little of obvious import happens in these books, but Mr. Knausgaard manages, seemingly without effort, to make a trip to the grocery store, or an evening’s conversation around a dinner table, as involving and gravity-laden as another writer’s account of the assassination of Osama bin Laden. He is contemporary fiction’s alchemist of the ordinary.
这两本书中几乎没有明显的重要事件，但是诺斯加德似乎不费吹灰之力就能把去杂货店购物或者在晚餐桌边谈话这样的事描述得像刺杀奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)一样重要、严肃。他是当代小说中能点石成金的魔术师。
While reading Book Three, my fever broke somewhat. His account of his life up to the age of 13 or so (soccer, candy craving, playing with matches, grades, swimming, skiing, girl craving) is accomplished and often intense, but you miss the adult complexity and the toggling back and forth in time of the first two books. Yet, as James Wood put it about Book One, “even when I was bored, I was interested.”
但是读第三册时，我的狂热不知为何减弱了。他对自己13岁之前的生活（足球，渴望糖果，比赛，考试成绩，游泳，滑雪，追求女孩）的讲述很娴熟，而且常常是充满了激情，但是你看不到前两册中成熟的复杂和反复的纠结。但是，就像詹姆斯·伍德(James Wood)对第一册的评价那样：“甚至在我觉得枯燥时，我还是有兴趣。”
Like any great epic, “My Struggle” has a monster. In this case, Grendel is Mr. Knausgaard’s father. We heard his distant rumbling in the first two books, but in this new volume, his nostrils breathe into ours. He instantly becomes, alongside Lear, Sylvia Plath’s daddy, Lt. Col. Bull Meechum in “The Great Santini” and Michael Henchard in “The Mayor of Casterbridge,” one of literature’s indelible bad dads.
就像所有伟大的史诗一样，《我的奋斗》中也有个魔鬼。他就是诺斯加德的父亲。在前两册中，我们能听到他遥远的嘟囔声，但是在这新的一册中，他就在我们眼前说话。他立刻变成了文学作品中那些阴魂不散的坏爸爸之一，他的同类包括李尔王(Lear)、西尔维娅·普拉特(Sylvia Plath)的爸爸、《伟大的圣蒂尼》(The Great Santini)中的陆军中校布尔·密切姆(Bull Meechum)以及《卡斯特桥市长》(The Mayor of Casterbridge)中的迈克尔·亨查德(Michael Henchard)。
Mr. Knausgaard’s father relentlessly mocks and humiliates and sometimes beats Karl Ove, for the way he talks, the way he stacks wood, over a lost sock, for accidentally touching his car seat, for running indoors, for eating too many apples or borrowing a shovel to help a neighbor. His presence is as oppressive as the desert sun.
诺斯加德的父亲因为各种小事无情地嘲笑、羞辱有时甚至责打卡尔·奥韦，比如卡尔说话的方式，他堆木头的方式，他丢了一只袜子，他不小心碰到了父亲的车座，他在屋里跑，他吃了太多苹果，或者他借了一个铁锹帮助邻居。他父亲的存在像沙漠里的太阳一样让人压抑。
“Whether he hit me or not made no difference,” Mr. Knausgaard writes. “It wasn’t the pain I was afraid of, it was him, his voice, his face, his body, the fury it emitted, that was what I was afraid of, and the terror never let up, it was there for every single day of my entire childhood.”
“他打不打我都无关紧要，”诺斯加德写道，“我怕的不是疼，而是他，是他的声音，他的脸，他的身体，他的狂怒，这些是我害怕的，恐惧一刻也不曾消失，存在于我整个童年的每一天。”
He continues: “After the confrontations I wanted to die. Dying was one of the best, most enjoyable fantasies I had. He would have fun then. He would be standing there thinking about what he had done.” When he has children of his own, he declares: “With them I have tried to achieve only one aim: that they shouldn’t be afraid of their father.”
他继续写道：“在冲突之后，我想去死。死亡是我最好、最快乐的幻想之一。那样他就开心了。他会站在那里思考他做了些什么。”在诺斯加德有了自己的孩子之后，他宣称：“和他们在一起，我只想努力实现一个目标：让他们不害怕自己的父亲。”
Writing well has always been the best revenge, and we come to realize that avenging himself upon his father is a large part of what drives “My Struggle.” The author can’t wait to grow up, to gain control of his life. “I would crush him,” he writes. “Crush him.”
写作永远是最好的复仇方式，我们意识到向父亲复仇是《我的奋斗》的一个重要驱动力。作者盼着赶快长大，可以控制自己的生活。“我要粉碎他，”他写道，“粉碎他。”
For all this Oedipal drama, Book Three of “My Struggle” isn’t grueling. There are expert, almost Mark Twain-like observations about being a boy, and for every scene in which he cowers from his father, there’s one in which he does something like stick his erect little penis into a discarded Heineken bottle, only to have it stung by an angry beetle.
在这个有仇父情绪的小说系列中，《我的奋斗》的第三册不算折磨人。里面有对男孩子的老练的、马克·吐温式的观察。除了他因为害怕父亲而蜷缩起来的场景，还有很多其他场景，比如他把自己勃起的小阴茎伸到被遗弃的喜力啤酒瓶里，结果里面的甲虫被惹怒了，螫了他一下。
Mr. Knausgaard writes well about lust and music (two of his great themes); throughout this novel, his young self escapes into records or cassettes of bands like the Police, Roxy Music, Motörhead, the Specials and Queen. He plays in a band and, at one concert, politely explains the meaning of punk rock before ripping into a song.
关于性欲和音乐（他的两个重要主题），诺斯加德写得很好。年少时的他逃避到很多乐队的唱片或磁带中，比如警察乐队(Police)、洛克西音乐乐团(Roxy Music)、摩托头乐队(Motörhead)、传奇乐队(Specials)和皇后乐队(Queen)——这贯穿了这本小说的始终。他曾在一个乐队里担任乐手。有一次在音乐会上，在开始唱一首歌之前，他礼貌地解释了朋克摇滚的意义。
If this volume lacks some of the heat and intellectual force of the first two books, it feels like an essential building block. This writer is constructing a towering edifice, in what feels like real time. Few artistic projects of our era feel more worth attending to.
这一册也许缺乏前两册的热情和智慧力量，但它是一个重要的建筑材料。这位作家在实时建造一座高耸的大厦。我们这个时代几乎没有哪个艺术项目比这个更值得引起我们注意。