JAKARTA, Indonesia — The American director of the chilling Indonesian documentary “The Act of Killing” has won dozens of awards so far for the film.
印度尼西亚雅加达——截至目前，执导令人毛骨悚然的印尼纪录片《杀戮演绎》(The Act of Killing)的美国导演已因该片赢得了数十个奖项。
But Joshua Oppenheimer has not succeeded in accomplishing what he considered a greater goal — jump-starting a debate in Indonesia that will compel the government to finally open a formal inquiry into one of the worst mass murders of the 20th century.
不过，约书亚·奥本海默(Joshua Oppenheimer)还没能在他心目中更为重大的目标上取得成功。这个目标就是：在印度尼西亚推动一场辩论，从而迫使该国政府最终开启正式的调查，调查20世纪最为惨烈的大屠杀事件之一。
The film, nominated for an Oscar as best documentary, recounts in graphic detail the killings of an estimated 500,000 or more Indonesians during state-sponsored purges in 1965 and 1966. The purge’s victims were branded as Communist Party members and sympathizers, but they included intellectuals and ethnic Chinese, a mistrusted minority.
这部影片获得了奥斯卡最佳纪录片提名，其中以画面再现了1965年至1966年间印尼政权支持下的清洗活动中民众遇害的细节。据估算，当时被杀的人至少有50万。 清洗活动的遇害者被贴上了共产党及其同情者的标签，但其实也包括知识分子，以及遭受怀疑的少数民族——华人。
Since “The Act of Killing” first appeared in 2012, it has received coverage worldwide, as much for its subject matter as for Mr. Oppenheimer’s approach: having men who ran one of the state-sponsored death squads not only recount the killings in detail, but also re-enact them on a film set.
自2012年问世以来，《杀戮演绎》就受到了全球媒体的关注，不仅是话题本身，还有奥本海默的拍摄手法：让一支政权支持下的处决队的领导人出镜，不仅是详述杀人细节，还以电影布景的形式进行了情景再现。
Despite the international press, the reaction in Indonesia has been muted. National television stations largely ignored the Academy Award nomination, which was covered by only a handful of print media.
尽管片子获得了国际媒体的报道，但印尼国内却悄无声息。全国性电视台基本无视了它的奥斯卡提名，仅四五家纸媒提及了此事。
The mass killings remain an extremely sensitive issue in Indonesia, where the powerful military and other groups in the country’s elite were implicated in the violence and defend their actions as saving Indonesia from what they say was an impending Communist takeover.
这场大屠杀在印尼一直是极为敏感的话题。有权有势的军方及权贵阶层内的一些团体卷入了这起暴力事件，并为自己的所作所为进行了辩护。在他们口中，当时共产党即将夺权，而他们的行为拯救了印尼。
Even the country’s independent National Commission on Human Rights has been unable to make much headway in its attempts at accountability. The commission ruled in 2012 that the killings, overseen by the late President Suharto when he was a general, were a gross violation of human rights and demanded a criminal inquiry. The attorney general’s office has refused.
就连独立的印尼全国人权委员会(National Commission on Human Rights)也一直未能在多次的问责努力中取得多少进展。2012年，该委员会裁定，这起由已去世的前总统苏哈托(Suharto)担任军队将领期间领导的屠杀是对人权的重大侵犯，应当进行刑事调查。不过，司法部长办公室对此予以了拒绝。
Mr. Oppenheimer was worried enough about the film’s being banned by government censors that he did not try to have it screened at movie theaters. He has, however, taken heart from the fact that the film was downloaded from YouTube more than 30,000 times within the first week that it became available last October, with many of the downloads in Indonesia.
奥本海默非常担心本片遭政府审查机构的封杀，因此根本就没有尝试在电影院放映。不过，去年10月上传至YouTube网站之后，该片首周的下载量即超过3万次，其中不少来自印尼。这让他颇感欣慰。
“It’s relatively easy to remove a dictator like Suharto and say we have an open society, but it requires the same popular movement to demand that legitimate democratic institutions become answerable to the popular will,” Mr. Oppenheimer said in a telephone interview. “The Indonesians must overcome those fears and create those movements, especially with two elections coming up this year.”
“推翻苏哈托这样的独裁者，然后说我们的社会开放了，这比较容易办到。可是，要求合法的民主制度对民意负责的话，就需要同样的民众运动，”奥本海默接受电话采访时说。“印尼必须克服那些恐惧来开创这样的运动，尤其是今年即将迎来两场选举。”
The mass killings were set off by a failed uprising within the Indonesian armed forces. Officers kidnapped and executed six army generals beginning on the night of Sept. 30, 1965. Within days, then-General Suharto and other top commanders quashed the uprising, which they called an attempted coup orchestrated by the powerful Indonesian Communist Party.
触发大屠杀的是印尼军队内部的一场未遂的武装暴动。从1965年9月30日夜间开始，一些军官绑架并处决了六名军队将领。几天之内，当时身为少将的苏哈托等高级将领平息了这场暴动，并将之定性为势力强大的印尼共产党一手策划的未遂政变。
Many of victims of the purge that followed were spirited away in the night and never seen again. Hundreds of thousands more were arrested and held in detention centers for years, and the surviving families of Communist Party members and suspected supporters were shunned.
在随之而来的清洗行动中，许多受害人一夜之间神秘地消失，再也没人见到。还有数十万人被捕，遭多年监禁。幸存下来的共产党家属和被疑为支持者的人则受到排斥。
The party was officially banned, and in an indication of how accepted the official state narrative remains, the men starring in “The Act of Killing” essentially confess to mass murder but are viewed by many Indonesians as heroes. In one of the most surreal scenes, the men — invited to depict their sentiments over their actions as they saw fit — danced to a rendition of “Born Free” in front of a waterfall.
印尼共产党正式被封杀。这些出现在《杀戮演绎》中的人实质上承认进行了大屠杀，却被许多印尼人视为英雄，这表明官方对此事的描述至今仍被广为接纳。片中最为超现实的情节中，有一幕是这样的：主角们受邀以他们认为合适的方式来描绘对自身行为的情绪，于是，他们在瀑布前以跳舞的方式演绎了这部片中片《生而自由》(Born Free)。
Schoolchildren are still taught that the Communists brought the violence upon themselves by plotting to take over the country.
孩子们在学校受到的教育仍然是，共产党阴谋窃国，暴力降临到他们头上是自找的。
While Indonesian and foreign academics and journalists have written frequently about the killings that extended over two years, and in many cases question the official state narrative, the issue of communism in Indonesia still touches a raw nerve. Last month, the police in the eastern Java city of Surabaya shut down a book discussion on Tan Malaka, the Indonesian Communist independence leader who was killed by military forces in 1949, after protests from a hard-line Islamic group.
虽然印尼学者、记者及他们的外国同行常常撰文评述这场持续了两年多的屠杀，并在许多场合质疑官方的立场，然而在印尼，共产主义的问题依然会触到人们的痛处。上个月，在东爪哇省的泗水市，当地警方因为一个强硬的伊斯兰教组织抗议，而叫停了一场书评会。这场书评会讨论的是1949年被军方杀害的印尼共产主义独立运动领导人陈马六甲(Tan Malaka)。
After “The Act of Killing” was first released, the offices of a newspaper that ran a story about it and printed the name of a well-known youth organization known to have participated in the purges, was surrounded by a mob and its editor beaten.
《杀戮演绎》首次放映后，一群暴徒包围了一家报社的办公室，该报的编辑也挨了打，原因是这家报社刊登了和影片有关的报道和某著名青年组织的名字，据说该组织曾参与当年的清洗活动。
The same month, Indonesia’s coordinating minister for security, Djoko Suyanto, who is also a retired commander in chief of the armed forces, vehemently rejected the conclusion of the human rights commission’s report, saying that the military saved the Indonesian state.
当月，已退役的国民军总司令、现任安全事务统筹部部长佐科·苏延托(Djoko Suyanto)激烈驳斥了人权委员会报告得出的结论。他说，军方拯救了印尼。
The fear of reprisals over the movie was strong enough that the Indonesian co-director and a local film crew of about 60 Indonesians identified themselves as “Anonymous” in the film’s credits. 
由于担心因为该片而遭到报复，在演职人员字幕里，本片的印尼副导演和大约60人的本地摄制组通通把自己列为了“匿名”人员。
The Indonesian co-director, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said in a telephone interview that although the country’s political system has significantly changed in the nearly 15 years since its democratic transition began with free elections in 1999, military, political and business figures from the final years of the Suharto government remained in positions of power.
要求不具名的印尼副导演在电话采访中表示，1999年的自由选举开启了印尼民主转型的历程，在随后的15年里，印尼的政治制度发生了巨大的变化，然而，苏哈托政府末期残留的军界、政界和商界人物依然把持着大权。
“Behind the facade,” the co-director said, “the machinery is still the same.”
这名副导演说，“在表面之下，原有的机制毫无改变。”
The commission’s report concludes that crimes — including rape, torture and executions — were committed by the Indonesian military and the civilian groups that they supported during the purges. The report implicated senior military leaders who were part of the Operational Command for the Restoration of Security and Order, which was led by Suharto.
人权委员会的报告得出结论，在清洗期间，印尼军方和受其支持的民间组织犯下了强奸、刑讯逼供和处决等罪行。报告认为，一些军方高级将领与清洗有关，这些人是苏哈托领导下的恢复安全与秩序行动指挥部(Operational Command for the Restoration of Security and Order)的成员。
While the last of the top commanders who ran the special operational command died in 2012, critics say the Indonesian attorney general’s office continues to reject the commission’s 850-page report because it would embarrass the powerful armed forces, and the political, paramilitary and Muslim religious groups that participated in the massacres but today remain prominent members of society. Among the Army commanders who led military operations against the Indonesian Communist Party, for example, was the late Sarwo Edhie Wibowo, whose daughter is the wife of Indonesia’s president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.
虽然掌管特别行动指挥部的最后一名高级将领已于2012年去世，评论人士称，印尼司法部长办公室依然拒绝接受委员会长达850页的报告，因为这会让大权在握的军队蒙羞、让曾参与大屠杀的政治团体、准军事组织和穆斯林宗教团体蒙羞。时至今日，这些团体依然维持着社会中的重要地位。例如，已去世的萨尔沃·埃迪·维博沃(Sarwo Edhie Wibowo)是领导反印尼共产党的军方行动的一位将领，他的女儿是印尼现任总统苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)的妻子。
A spokesman at the attorney general’s office declined a request for an interview to discuss the status of the human rights commission report, saying, “The issue is very sensitive.”
司法部长办公室发言人以“这个问题太敏感”为由，拒绝讨论人权委员会报告的情况。
The Human Rights Commission is now trying to nudge Mr. Yudhoyono’s government to at least form a body that would investigate the killings but not have the authority to recommend criminal prosecutions of surviving perpetrators.
目前，人权委员会正在设法推动尤多约诺政府能至少组建一个调查杀戮的机构，不过，该机构无权建议对幸存的犯罪者提出刑事起诉。
In the end, Mr. Oppenheimer said, his film and other attempts to debate the bloodletting would eventually debunk the idea that they were justified by the perceived threat to the country.
最后，奥本海默说，他的电影和讨论这场杀戮的其他尝试，最终将驳斥杀戮有理的观点，而这个理由就是人们认为国家受到了威胁。
“It’s something the government cannot stop,” he said, “whether it’s silent or not.”
他说，“这一点，政府无法阻挠，不管它是否保持沉默。”