PARIS — Muslim groups and scholars in France and elsewhere voiced concerns on Tuesday that a satirical newspaper’s first cover since the attack on its journalists last week could ignite dangerous new passions in a debate pitting free speech against religious doctrine.
巴黎——周二，法国及其他地方的穆斯林团体和学者表示，他们担心一家讽刺性报纸在该报记者上周遭袭后发布的首期封面可能会在一场争论中再次激发危险的情绪。这场争论的焦点是言论自由与宗教教义的关系。
One of Egypt’s highest Islamic authorities, Dar al-Ifta, warned that the new cartoon, depicting the Prophet Muhammad, would exacerbate tensions between the secular West and observant Muslims. Death threats circulated online against the surviving staff members of the newspaper, Charlie Hebdo.
埃及的伊斯兰教最高权威机构之一“宗教法令院”(Dar al-Ifta)发出警告，有关先知穆罕默德的这幅新漫画将加剧世俗化的西方与严守教义的穆斯林之间的紧张关系。网上已出现了针对《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)幸存员工的死亡威胁。
The offices of the newspaper were attacked last Wednesday in apparent retaliation for routinely publishing cartoons lampooning Muhammad. Some interpretations of Islamic law forbid images of the prophet.
该报办公室上周三遭到攻击，似乎是对他们常常出版讽刺穆罕默德的漫画进行报复。对伊斯兰教法的某些解读禁止使用先知的影像。
Survivors of the attack had said they would proceed with their next issue and again depict Muhammad.
袭击事件的幸存者表示，他们会继续发布新一期周报，并将再次描绘穆罕默德。
The cover of the new issue — already widely seen on the Internet — will be published on Wednesday in a print run of up to three million copies, compared with a typical print run of 60,000 copies. It shows Muhammad displaying the slogan that has become the symbol of resistance to Islamic militants: “Je Suis Charlie,” or, “I am Charlie.” He is shown weeping under a headline that reads: “All is forgiven.”
新一期报纸的封面已在网上广泛流传，将于周三正式发行。这期的印刷量将至多达300万份，而之前的印数通常是6万份。在这幅漫画中，穆罕默德举着一块“我是查理”(Je suis Charlie)的牌子——这句标语已经成为反抗伊斯兰激进分子的象征。图片显示穆罕默德在哭泣，头上的标题写着《一切皆被宽恕》。
Muslim organizations in France issued a joint statement on Tuesday expressing concern about the “numerous anti-Muslim acts observed these days,” and calling on the authorities to guarantee the security of mosques.
法国的穆斯林团体在周二发表了一篇联合声明，表达了对“最近看到的很多反穆斯林行为”的担忧，并且呼吁当局保障清真寺的安全。
The statement on Tuesday also commented on the new Charlie Hebdo cover, urging French Muslims to “remain calm and avoid emotive or incongruous reactions incompatible with dignity,” while “respecting freedom of opinion.”
这份声明也对《查理周报》的新封面发表了评论，敦促法国穆斯林“保持冷静，避免与尊严不符的情绪化或不恰当反应”，同时要“尊重表达意见的自由”。
In Egypt, Dar al-Ifta, which issues religious edicts, called on the French government to “announce their rejection of this racist act that attempts to raise religious strife and sectarianism, and deepen hatred.”
在埃及，负责颁布伊斯兰教法令的宗教法令院呼吁法国政府“宣告抵制这种试图激发宗教冲突和宗派主义并深化仇恨的种族主义行为”。
The blunt admonition, from a pillar of the mainstream Sunni Muslim establishment in the Arab world’s most populous country, recalled the pronouncements of Egyptian clerics in 2006 when cartoons depicting Muhammad were published in European newspapers, prompting a massive outpouring of protest — some of it violent — in many parts of he Muslim world.
作为阿拉伯世界人口最多的国家的主流逊尼派穆斯林统治集团的支柱之一，宗教法令院在此番直白的告诫中提到了埃及神职人员2006年的声明。当时，欧洲多家报刊发表了描绘穆罕默德的漫画，在穆斯林世界的许多地方引起了大规模抗议——有些还带有暴力性质。
Egypt’s government has strongly condemned the attacks, framing them as part of its own struggle against Islamist militants who have killed hundreds of soldiers and police officers over the last year and a half.
埃及政府对上周的袭击事件表示强烈谴责，并将其归为自身对抗伊斯兰激进分子的斗争的一部分。过去一年半，伊斯兰激进分子杀害了数以百计的军人和警察。
In its statement, Dar al-Ifta mentioned attacks on mosques in the wake of the attacks in Paris. And it said that the planned Charlie Hebdo cover would serve as an “unjustified provocation to the feelings of a billion and half Muslims around the world who love and respect the Prophet.” It said the newspaper’s cover “will give an opportunity for extremists from both sides to exchange violent acts that only the innocent will pay for.”
宗教法令院在声明中提到，在巴黎的袭击事件之后，一些清真寺也受到了攻击。文中称，《查理周报》的下期封面将“对全球爱戴及尊重先知的15亿穆斯林的感情造成不正当的刺激”。声明中还表示，《查理周报》的封面“将给双方的极端分子提供一个用暴力行为对待彼此的机会，而付出代价的只有无辜平民。”
Renald Luzier, who drew the latest cover and who is one of the most prominent cartoonists at the magazine, escaped the massacre last week because he was late to work. At a news conference on Tuesday he sought to explain the drawing.
雷纳德·吕齐埃(Renald Luzier)是最新一期封面图片的作者，也是《查理周报》最著名的漫画家之一。上周，他因为迟到而躲过了那场屠戮。在周二的新闻发布会上，他试图对这幅画作出解释。