Carrie Fisher, the actress, author and screenwriter who brought a rare combination of nerve, grit and hopefulness to her most indelible role, as Princess Leia in the “Star Wars” movie franchise, died Tuesday. She was 60.
演员、作家、编剧凯丽·费雪(Carrie Fisher)周二去世，享年60岁。在扮演其最令人难忘的角色，即《星球大战》(Star Wars)系列电影中的莱娅公主(Princess Leia)时，费雪难能可贵地将勇敢、坚毅和充满希望这些特质融为了一体。
A family spokesman, Simon Hall, confirmed the death in a statement, saying Fisher died at 8:55 a.m. She had had a heart attack on a flight from London to Los Angeles on Friday and had been hospitalized in Los Angeles.
家族发言人西蒙·霍尔(Simon Hall)在一份声明中证实了这一消息，称其于上午8点55分去世。她在从伦敦飞往洛杉矶的航班上心脏病发作，随后在洛杉矶入院治疗。
Fisher, the daughter of pop singer Eddie Fisher and actress Debbie Reynolds, went on to use her perch among Hollywood royalty to offer wry commentary in her books on the paradoxes and absurdities of the entertainment industry.
费雪的父亲是流行歌手埃迪·费雪(Eddie Fisher)，母亲是演员黛比·雷诺兹(Debbie Reynolds)。后来，她利用自己在好莱坞权贵阶层中的地位，在多部著作中对娱乐业的矛盾和荒诞进行了揶揄和评论。
“Star Wars,” released in 1977, turned her overnight into an international movie star. The film, written and directed by George Lucas, traveled around the world, breaking box-office records. It proved to be the first installment of a blockbuster series whose vivid, even preposterous characters became pop culture legends and the progenitors of a merchandising bonanza.
1977年发行的《星球大战》让她在一夜之间成了国际影星。由乔治·卢卡斯(George Lucas)编剧和导演的该片在全球上映，打破了多项票房纪录。它成为了一个大片系列的第一部。该系列生动乃至荒谬的角色成了流行文化传奇和电影周边衍生品富矿的鼻祖。
Fisher established Princess Leia as a damsel who could very much deal with her own distress, whether facing down the villainy of the dreaded Darth Vader or the romantic interests of the roguish smuggler Han Solo.
费雪把莱娅公主塑造成了一个完全能够应对自己痛苦的姑娘，不管是在打败可怕的达斯·维达(Darth Vader)的邪恶行为，还是在压制恣意妄为的走私犯汉·索罗(Han Solo)的爱意时。
She reprised the role in three more films — in “The Empire Strikes Back” in 1980, in “Return of the Jedi” in 1983 and, 32 years later, in “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” by which time Leia had become a hard-bitten general.
之后，她又三次扮演莱娅公主，分别是在1980年的《帝国反击战》(The Empire Strikes Back)、1983年的《绝地归来》(Return of the Jedi)和32年后的《星球大战：原力觉醒》(Stars Wars: The Force Awakens)中。到最后一部时，莱娅已经成了一名顽强不屈的将军。
Offscreen, Fisher was open about her diagnosis of bipolar disorder. She channeled her struggles with depression and substance abuse into fiercely comic works, including the semiautobiographical novel “Postcards From the Edge” and the memoir and one-woman show “Wishful Drinking.”
在银幕外，费雪坦承自己患有躁狂抑郁性精神病。她将自己与抑郁症和滥用药物的斗争变成了喜剧效果强烈的作品，包括半自传体小说《来自边缘的明信片》(Postcards From the Edge)和回忆录、独角戏《怀着愿望畅饮》(Wishful Drinking)。
Carrie Frances Fisher was born on Oct. 21, 1956, in Beverly Hills, California. She was the first child of her highly visible parents (they later had a son, Todd).
费雪全名凯丽·弗朗西丝·费雪，1956年10月21日出生于加州贝弗利山。她的父母一举一动备受关注，她是他们的第一个孩子（后来，他们又有了儿子托德[Todd]）。
Any semblance of a normal childhood was impossible for Fisher. At 15, she played a debutante in the Broadway musical “Irene,” which starred her mother, and appeared in Reynolds’ Las Vegas nightclub act. At 17, Fisher made her first movie, “Shampoo” (1975), Hal Ashby’s satire of Nixon-era politics and the libidinous Los Angeles culture of the time, in which she played the precocious daughter of a wealthy woman (Lee Grant) having an affair with a promiscuous hairdresser (Warren Beatty).
对费雪来说，难以拥有普通孩子那样的童年。15岁时，她在由母亲主演的百老汇音乐剧《艾琳》(Irene)中首次登台，并参与母亲在拉斯维加斯的夜总会表演。17岁时，费雪拍了自己的第一部电影《洗发水》(Shampoo)。该片由霍尔·阿什比(Hal Ashby)导演，是对尼克松时代的政治以及当时淫乱的洛杉矶文化的讽刺。她在片中扮演一名女富豪（李·格兰特[Lee Grant]饰）早熟的女儿，与放荡的理发师（沃伦·比提[Warren Beatty]）有一段风流韵事。
She partied with the Rolling Stones during the making of “The Empire Strikes Back,” hosted “Saturday Night Live” and had romantic relationships with Dan Aykroyd (with whom she appeared in “The Blues Brothers”) and Paul Simon. She and Simon had a marriage that lasted less than a yearr.
她在拍摄《帝国反击战》期间与滚石乐队(the Rolling Stones)一起开派对，主持过《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)，还与丹·艾克罗伊德（Dan Aykroyd，两人合作过《布鲁斯兄弟》[The Blues Brothers]）和保罗·西蒙(Paul Simon)有过交往。她和西蒙的婚姻维持了不到一年。
In “The Princess Diarist,” she admitted what many fans had long suspected: During the filming of the first “Star Wars” movie, she and Harrison Ford (who was married at the time) had an affair.
在《日记的公主》(The Princess Diarist)中，她证实了很多粉丝长期以来的怀疑：在拍摄第一部《星球大战》期间，她曾与哈里森·福特（Harrison Ford，当时已婚）相恋。
Her survivors include her brother, Todd; her daughter, Billie Lourd, from a relationship with the talent agent Bryan Lourd; and her half sisters, Joely Fisher and Tricia Leigh Fisher, the daughters of Eddie Fisher and Connie Stevens.
费雪仍在世的亲人包括弟弟托德、她与明星经纪人布莱恩·劳德(Bryan Lourd)所生的女儿比利·劳德(Billie Lourd)，以及同父异母的妹妹朱莉·费雪(Joely Fisher)和特里西娅·利·费雪(Tricia Leigh Fisher)，她们是她父亲埃迪·费雪和康妮·史蒂文斯(Connie Stevens)所生。