The fantasy series “Game of Thrones” has set off a wide-ranging debate about rape, and whether this popular franchise — which includes  best-selling novels, a hit HBO television adaptation, a line of comic books and more — trivializes sexual violence with its frequent and often graphic depictions.
奇幻电视剧《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)引发了关于强奸的广泛讨论，以及《冰与火之歌》这个热门系列——包括畅销小说、HBO频道热门改编电视剧和一系列漫画书等——是否通过频繁的、往往非常露骨的描绘令性暴力变得好像小事一桩。
George R. R. Martin, whose “Song of Ice and Fire” novels are the foundation of the “Game of Thrones” series, answered email questions from The New York Times about why his books contain scenes of sexual brutality, and responded to some of the criticism that these moments have elicited. These are his responses in their entirety.
乔治·R·R·马丁(George R. R. Martin)的《冰与火之歌》(Song of Ice and Fire)系列小说是《权力的游戏》的基础。他通过邮件回答了《纽约时报》的提问，关于他的书中为何有性暴力场面，并对当下的批评做出了回应。下面是他的完整回复。
Q. Why have you included incidents of rape or sexual violence in your “Song of Ice and Fire” novels? What larger themes are you trying to bring out with these scenes?
问：你为什么在《冰与火之歌》的小说中加入强奸或性暴力的内容？通过这些场面你想反映哪些更大的主题？
A. An artist has an obligation to tell the truth. My novels are epic fantasy, but they are inspired by and grounded in history. Rape and sexual violence have been a part of every war ever fought, from the ancient Sumerians to our present day. To omit them from a narrative centered on war and power would have been fundamentally false and dishonest, and would have undermined one of the themes of the books: that the true horrors of human history derive not from orcs and Dark Lords, but from ourselves. We are the monsters. (And the heroes too). Each of us has within himself the capacity for great good, and great evil.
答：艺术家必须讲述事实。我的小说是奇幻史诗，但它们以历史为灵感并植根于历史。自古以来，所有的战争都涉及强奸和性暴力，从古代苏美尔人到现在都是如此。一个关于战争和权力的故事不提这些内容从根本上讲是虚伪的、不诚实的，会从根本上削弱这些书的一个主题：人类历史真正的恐怖并非来自半兽人和黑暗领主，而是来自我们自己。我们才是魔鬼（我们也是英雄）。我们每个人既能成就大善，也能做下大恶。
Q. Some critics of the books have said that even if such scenes are meant to illustrate that the world of Westeros is often a dark and depraved place, there is an overreliance on these moments over the course of the novels, and at a certain point they are no longer shocking and become titillating. How do you respond to this criticism?
问：有些批评者说，就算书中的这些场面意在说明维斯特洛总的来说是个黑暗、堕落的地方，但是小说中的这些场面太多了，从某种意义上讲，它们不再令人震惊，而是撩拨人的性欲。你如何看待这样的批评？
A. I have to take issue with the notion that Westeros is a “dark and depraved place.” It’s not the Disneyland Middle Ages, no, and that was quite deliberate … but it is no darker nor more depraved than our own world. History is written in blood. The atrocities in “A Song of Ice and Fire,” sexual and otherwise, pale in comparison to what can be found in any good history book.
答：我不认为维斯特洛是个“黑暗、堕落的地方”。它不是迪斯尼世界版的中世纪，那是很明显的……。但它不比我们生活的世界更黑暗或更堕落。历史都是用血写成的。《冰与火之歌》中的暴行——性暴力或其他暴力——与任何正统历史书中的内容相比，都显得苍白。
As for the criticism that some of the scenes of sexual violence are titillating, to me that says more about these critics than about my books. Maybe they found certain scenes titillating. Most of my readers, I suspect, read them as intended.
至于有些人批评有些性暴力场面撩拨人的性欲，在我看来，那更多地暴露了那些批评者的问题，而不是我的书的问题。也许他们觉得某些场面挑逗人，但是我猜我的大部分读者对这些场面的解读和我期待的一样。
I will say that my philosophy as a writer, since the very start of my career, has been one of “show, don’t tell.” Whatever might be happening in my books, I try to put the reader into the middle of it, rather than summarizing the action. That requires vivid sensory detail. I don’t want distance, I want to put you there. When the scene in question is a sex scene, some readers find that intensely uncomfortable… and that’s ten times as true for scenes of sexual violence.
我要说，我从一开始写作就秉持着这样的原则：“展示，而非说教。”不管我的书中发生什么，我都尽力让读者融入其中，而不是概述那个事件。那需要生动、详细的感官描述。我不希望读者产生距离感，我想让他们身临其境。如果是性场面，有些读者会觉得特别不舒服，性暴力场面更是让他们十分难受。
But that is as it should be. Certain scenes are meant to be uncomfortable, disturbing, hard to read.
但是必须得这样。有些场面故意让人不舒服，令人不安，让人读起来很痛苦。
Q. As your novels have been adapted for TV, comic books and other visual media, do you think these scenes of sexual violence that you described in oblique and indirect ways are becoming more explicit and more shocking? Is that a potential problem?
问：你的小说被改编成电视、漫画和其他视觉媒介，你是否认为你用隐晦、间接的方式描绘的性暴力场面因此变得更露骨、更令人震惊？那是个潜在的问题吗？
A.  The graphic novels and television programs are in the hands of others, who make their own artistic choices as to what sort of approach will work best in their respective mediums.
答：露骨的小说和电视节目是其他人做出的艺术选择，他们自己选择哪种方式对各自的媒介效果最好。