It’s no surprise that the Japanese artist-impresario Takashi Murakami has directed a feature-length film that combines human actors and animated characters. After all, Mr. Murakami is a polymath trained in anime as well as in Nihonga, Japan’s rigorous traditional painting style, and has been moving between high and low art for over two decades. He is known for multipurpose cartoon creatures, among them petal-rimmed smiley faces and mushrooms dotted with wide, baby-doll peepers that he calls jellyfish eyes. These and other signature motifs have appeared in labor-intensive paintings, in large polychrome sculptures evoking a highbrow Disneyland and on skateboards and limited-edition Louis Vuitton handbags.
日本艺术家村上隆(Takashi Murakami)导演了一部剧情长片，由真人演员和动画人物共同出演，这并不令人意外。毕竟，村上隆多才多艺，学过日本动漫和日本画（Nihonga，严格的日本传统绘画风格），20多年来在高雅艺术和通俗艺术之间游走。他以创作多用途卡通人物闻名，包括笑脸花和布满玩偶娃娃式大眼睛（他称为水母眼）的蘑菇。这些标志性图案出现在大规模密集生产出的绘画作品、让人想起高雅版迪士尼的大型彩绘雕塑，以及滑板和限量版路易·威登(Louis Vuitton)手袋上。
What’s surprising is that “Jellyfish Eyes” is very bad. A coming-of-age story with philosophical trappings, it centers on a tween named Masashi (the appealing Takuto Sueoka), and unfolds against a battle between good and evil that seems to be a fable about post-Fukushima Japan. With a lovable, jellyfish-like sprite named Kurage-bo (Jellyfish Boy) as its lead animated character, a laboratory of unspecified function that frightens its surrounding suburb, and a shapeless gray monster named Oval that towers above the land, the movie blends aspects of “Close Encounters of the Third Kind,” “Frankenstein” and “Godzilla.” Other familiar devices include a brainwashed religious cult and four young villains in black capes who lack only big black mustaches to twirl.
令人意外的是，《水母眼》(Jellyfish Eyes)这部电影非常糟糕。它讲述了一个披着哲学外衣的成长故事，围绕一个名叫正志（Masashi，由漂亮的末冈拓人[Takuto Sueoka]饰演）的少年展开，呈现了一场正邪之战，似乎是暗指福岛事件之后的日本。片中的中心动画人物是一个可爱的水母状精灵，名叫水母宝宝(Jellyfish Boy)，另外还有一个令周围居民感到恐惧的功能不明的实验室，以及盘旋在这片土地上空的无形灰色妖怪Oval——这部影片似乎是把《第三类接触》(Close Encounters of the Third Kind)、《弗兰肯斯坦》(Frankenstein)和《哥斯拉》(Godzilla)的某些元素组合到了一起。其他常见的设置包括一个被洗脑的邪教组织和四名身穿黑色大衣的年轻匪徒，他们只缺用大黑胡子来妆扮了。
Whatever you might think of Mr. Murakami’s paintings and sculptures, they are invariably polished and eerily perfect, but his movie seems thrown together. It is poorly shot and afflicted by tedious sound (lots of screaming and saccharine music) and inept special effects. It moves with either incomprehensible abruptness or tedious slowness, especially at supposedly suspenseful moments. It seems aimed primarily at die-hard Murakami fans or children under 7 who will be taken with the animation (the best part). Those who fit neither demographic may watch “Jellyfish Eyes” with growing perplexity; its obviousness might almost be ironic, but the laughs never come.
不管你对村上隆的绘画和雕塑看法如何，它们都是经过精心打磨、近乎完美，但他的电影却似胡乱拼凑。其拍摄手法拙劣，配乐沉闷（有很多尖叫声和甜得发腻的音乐），特效笨拙。时而突然让人难以理解，时而缓慢得让人生厌，特别是在那些本应让人紧张的时刻。它似乎主要是面向村上隆的铁杆粉丝或者会被动画迷住的七岁以下孩子（动画是这部电影最好的部分）。不属于上述两类的观众会越看越糊涂。它显而易见是为了讽刺，但是一直未能引人发笑。
Masashi and his widowed mother (Mayu Tsuruta) have just arrived in town to be near his uncle, Naoto (Takumi Saito), who works in the lab. It has been all but hijacked by the black-cloaked four, whose mission immediately seems suspicious: to cleanse the world by channeling the powerful emotions of children.
正志和守寡的妈妈（鹤田真由[Mayu Tsuruta]饰）刚搬到镇上，以便和舅舅直人（Naoto，斋藤工[Takumi Saito]饰）住得近些。直人在那个实验室工作。实验室差点被穿黑大衣的四个匪徒劫持，他们的目的很快显得有些可疑：利用儿童的强烈情绪来清洗这个世界。
Masashi is befriended by Kurage-bo, who likes Chee-Kama, a real cheese-and-fish-stick snack that — in a rare bit of product placement — is almost intrinsic to the plot. In the film, it is supposedly made by the company that employed Masashi’s father, who is revealed in one of the boy’s dreams to have died in the 2011 tsunami. Masashi discovers that his new schoolmates have similar companions and that they are called F.R.I.E.N.D.s, which breaks down into the not so catchy “life-Form Resonance Inner Energy Negative emotion and Disaster prevention.”
正志和水母宝宝成了好朋友，后者很喜欢Chee-Kama，它是一种现实生活中真实存在的奶酪鱼糕棒小吃。这稍微算是产品植入，不过也与故事情节吻合。在影片中，这种小吃是正志爸爸供职的公司生产的。通过正志的一个梦，我们得知，他爸爸是在2011年的海啸中去世的。正志发现他的新校友们都有类似的伙伴，它们被称为F.R.I.E.N.D.，意思是“生命形式的负面情绪和灾难预防内在能量共鸣器”(life-Form Resonance Inner Energy Negative emotion and Disaster prevention，念起来有点拗口)。
These vivid animated creatures, conjured by Mr. Murakami and his studio for the movie, are irresistible and, as might be expected, have already spawned a line of small rubber charms. The best scenes come early, when Kurage-bo fights off the other F.R.I.E.N.D.s, with the aid of Luxor, the F.R.I.E.N.D. of a peace-loving girl, Saki (Himeka Asami), who bonds with Masashi. The giant Luxor is played by an actor in furry costume.
村上隆和他的工作室为电影想像出来的这些生动的动画人物具有不可抵挡的魅力。不出所料，它们已经衍生出一系列小橡胶饰物。最好的一些场景出现在影片前半段——水母宝宝在卢克索(Luxor)的帮助下击退其他F.R.I.E.N.D.。卢克索是爱好和平的女孩崎（Saki，浅见姬香[Himeka Asami]饰）的F.R.I.E.N.D.，崎和正志互有好感。巨大的卢克索由一位身穿毛皮戏服的演员饰演。
When the black-cloaked four discover that Masashi’s energy is especially strong, things start heating up in a confusing way. Lightning flashes, toxic clouds swirl, Kurage-bo turns out to have jet engines, and eventually evil is vanquished or at least subdued. The black-cloaked four slink away, suggesting that a sequel is on the way. This grim prospect is confirmed by the trailer that follows the credits.
当穿黑大衣的四个匪徒发现正志的能量尤为强烈时，事态开始以令人费解的方式白热化。电闪雷鸣，毒云旋转，水母宝宝居然还有喷气发动机，最后邪恶被打败了，或者至少被遏制了。穿黑大衣的四个匪徒逃跑了，这暗示着还会有续集。这可怕的预感被演职员表后面的预告片证实了。