SAN FRANCISCO — When Apple unveiled its watch last fall, the company showed only demo models of the new device — polished prototypes of the hardware running nonworking loops of the software.
旧金山——去年秋天首次公开它的手表时，苹果(Apple)只展示了这款新设备的演示机型——一种美化版的硬件原型，上面运行的软件只是在循环演示，无法使用。
On Monday, the company gave a closer look at the Apple Watch, including the working software. The company also said the device would start at $350 and, depending on the band and finish you chose, go into the thousands of dollars. I spent two long sessions with the watch in Apple’s demo room. Here are my first impressions.
周一，苹果给出了Apple Watch的更多细节，包括可以使用的软件。公司还表示这款设备售价为350美元（约合2200元人民币）起，具体价格取决于你选择的表带和外壳，最高可达数千上万美元。我在苹果的演示厅用掉了两段长时试用期。以下是我的初步感受。
THE HARDWARE It’s a perfectly nice-looking watch. In its higher-end configurations — for instance, the stainless steel middle tier, with the steel-mesh Milanese loop wristband, which starts at $650 — the Apple Watch comes close to being beautiful, and it is certainly one of the best-looking computers you can buy for your wrist.
硬件 这是一款绝对好看的手表。偏高档的型号——比如售价650美元起的中档不锈钢款，配米兰尼斯钢网表带——几乎可以说美了，而作为一个戴在手腕上的电脑，它无疑是目前这类产品中最漂亮的。
Yet it’s hard to forget that it is a computer for your wrist. Even in its top-end versions, it lacks the understated elegance of old-fashioned high-end analog watches. Apple is doing something unusual here: It is trying to create an electronic device that matches the timeless appeal of a piece of jewelry.
但是你会无时无刻不意识到它是个电脑。即使顶级款式也缺乏老式高档腕表的低调优雅。苹果在做一件很不寻常的事情：它企图让一个电子设备拥有珠宝一般的永恒魅力。
I’m not quite sure Apple pulled that off in this version. The electronic watch face is a bit chunky compared with the high-end band, so the overall impression is one of a mash-up between jewelry and gadgets. I’m reminded of the first-generation iPad or iPhone: The Apple Watch may look a bit more stylish than any other techie watch you can buy, but I can’t help but dream about the third- or fourth-generation version, when everything is likely to become smaller, thinner, tighter and more elegant.
这个版本有没有做到？我说不好。电子表身跟高档腕带放在一起显得有些臃肿，总体上给人一种珠宝和电子设备拼凑在一起的感觉。这让我想起初代iPad或iPhone：跟现在能买到的其他高科技手表比起来，Apple Watch的样子更时尚，但我不禁会去想象它的第三、第四代是什么样子，到时它会更小、更薄、更紧凑，也更优雅。
THE INTERFACE Last fall, Apple made a big show of the rotating crown on the side of the device, the company’s take on what most of us call a watch dial. The company held up the crown as its next great interface, something on the order of the mouse, the iPod’s clickwheel or the touch screen on the iPhone. I was surprised, therefore, to discover how small a role the crown plays in typical use of the watch.
界面 去年秋天苹果隆重介绍了手表侧面的表冠。他们称这个表冠是新一代的人机交互界面，可以比肩鼠标、iPod点击滚轮和iPhone触摸屏的东西。然而我很惊讶地发现，它在手表的正常使用中其实没有太多用处。
It has two primary uses: When you press it, you get to the watch’s main screen of apps — or, if you’re already on that screen, the watch switches to displaying the clock. In other words, the crown works as a home button. It can also be used for scrolling and zooming. In the music app, for example, you turn it to scroll through artists; if you’re in the photos app, you turn the crown to zoom from a set of tiny tiles of your photos to focus on a single one.
它的用途主要有两个：一是按一下可以进入手表的主屏应用——如果你已经在主屏上，它会切换到时钟。换句话说，表冠相当于其他设备的主屏键。此外它还可以用来滚动和缩放。比如在音乐应用里，你可以转动表冠检索艺人；在照片应用里，转动表冠可以将一组照片缩略图中的某一幅照片放大。
But you can also scroll using your finger on the screen, and in my brief time with the watch, I found that method much faster than the crown. Over all, I found myself touching and tapping much more than turning the dial. In addition to standard taps, the screen also has another tap mode called force touch, which works just as it sounds — press the screen harder. Force touch uncovers an extra level of settings in apps. For instance, force touch an email and you see options to delete, reply or mark it as unread.
但是你也可以用手指在屏幕上滚动，在试用中我发现，这种办法要比表冠快很多。总体而言，我发现自己更多时候是在点触屏幕，而不是转动表冠。除了标准的点触，手表屏幕还有一种叫做“压感触控”的模式，使用方法你应该能猜到——就是更用力地按压屏幕。压感触控可以打开应用的附加设置。比如用力按一封邮件，可以得到删除、回复或标记为已读的选项。
The diminished use of the crown strikes me as a wise choice. It’s not another thing you’ve got to learn; for the most part, you control the watch just like your phone. It’s less busy, and much more intuitive, than I’d suspected it would be.
削减表冠的用途，在我看来是明智之举。你不需要去学习如何用它；对手表的操控，多数时候跟手机没什么区别。它没那么复杂，可以更多地凭直觉使用，这比我事先预想的要好。
THE USES Apple spent a long while going through most of the watch’s major functions, including its use as a fitness tracker, texting app, email reader and payment device for locations that accept Apple Pay. I boiled down the list to this rule of thumb: Just about anything you can do with your phone, you can do with your watch, faster.
使用 苹果花了很多时间介绍手表的主要功能，比如它作为健康监测仪、短信应用、电子邮件阅读器的用途，还有在接受Apple Pay的地方可以成为一个支付设备。我把这一长串功能浓缩为一句话：凡是手机能做的事，这块手表大多也能做到，而且更快。 
To me, this is the most interesting potential of the watch. Whether it’s calling an Uber car, checking into your hotel or answering a text, the watch will allow you to interact with the digital world at a glance, in a less outwardly antisocial way than you now do with your phone.
在我看来，这就是它最有看头的潜力所在。无论是Uber叫车、入住酒店还是回复短信，你只需抬抬手就可以和数码世界互动，而且这个过程比起你现在用手机的样子，不会显得那么回避社交。