Stéphane Charbonnier, the editorial director of the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, was often pictured with his fist aloft.
法国政治讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的编辑部主任斯特凡纳·沙博尼耶(Stéphane Charbonnier)，在照片中时常做出挥舞拳头的样子。
Mr. Charbonnier, 47, a cartoonist known professionally as Charb, was among 12 people killed Wednesday when gunmen attacked his newspaper’s offices in Paris. He had been instrumental in a series of defiant campaigns that divided public opinion — some saw them as powerful stands for free speech, and others as needless provocations.
47岁的沙博尼耶是一名漫画家，笔名叫沙博(Charb)。当枪手周三袭击他的报社在巴黎的办公室时，包括他在内的12人遇害。一系列的挑衅性活动都有他的参与。公众对这些活动的意见不一，有人认为它们是捍卫言论自由的强大平台，也有一些人则认为它们是不必要的挑衅。
He oversaw the publication of a spoof issue in 2011, advertised as guest edited by the Prophet Muhammad, which led to the paper’s offices being firebombed.
2011年，他领导出版了一期讽刺性的专刊，宣称该刊由先知穆罕默德(Prophet Muhammad)担任客座编辑。此事导致该报的办公地点遭遇燃烧弹攻击。
In 2012, Mr. Charbonnier defied the advice of the French government and published crude caricatures of Muhammad, shown naked and in sexual poses. Depictions of the prophet, even if reverent, are forbidden under Islamic law. One of the people killed Wednesday was a police officer assigned to guard the paper’s offices after those episodes.
2012年，沙博尼耶不顾法国政府的建议，刊登了一系列粗俗的漫画。在漫画中，穆罕默德赤身裸体，摆着有性含义的姿势。而对先知的描绘，哪怕是以虔诚的方式，在伊斯兰教法中都是被禁止的。周三的遇害者中包括一名警察。这名警察是在在发生了这些事件后，被派去保护该报的办公场所的。
“Is it really sensible or intelligent to pour oil on the fire?” asked Laurent Fabius, the foreign minister at the time, when he closed French embassies, consulates, cultural centers and schools in about 20 countries.
“火上浇油真的理智吗，明智吗？”时任外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)在关闭法国位于大约20个国家的使领馆、文化机构和学校时说。
Mr. Charbonnier himself was under police protection, though he told Le Monde, the French daily, that as a single man he did not fear retaliation, and that however pompous it might sound, he would rather “die standing than live on my knees.”
沙博尼耶自己也受到了警方的保护，不过他告诉法国《世界报》(Le Monde)说，作为一名单身汉，他不怕报复，并且不管听上去可能有多么浮夸，他说自己宁愿“站着死，也不愿跪着生”。
When the French prime minister at the time, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said that the government planned to block a series of protests by Muslims, Mr. Charbonnier defied that, too. “Why should they prohibit these people from expressing themselves?” Mr. Charbonnier said at the time. “We have the right to express ourselves, they have the right to express themselves, too.”
时任总理让-马克·埃罗(Jean-Marc Ayrault)称政府打算阻止穆斯林发起的一系列抗议时，沙博尼耶也表示了反对。“为什么要禁止这些人表达自己的观点，”沙博尼耶当时说。“我们有权表达我们的观点，他们也有权表达他们的观点。”
Mr. Charbonnier, a slight man with thick glasses, had worked at Charlie Hebdo for more than 20 years, he said in an interview with Al Jazeera English in 2012. For that whole time, he said, the newspaper had been “provocative on many subjects.”
沙博尼耶身材瘦小，戴着一副厚眼镜。2012年接受半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)英语频道的采访时，他说自己在《查理周报》工作已经有20多年了。他表示，在这期间，《查理周报》“在很多问题上都颇为挑衅”。
“It just so happens that every time we deal with radical Islam we have a problem and we get indignant or violent reactions,” he said.
“事情就是这样，每次处理有关激进的伊斯兰教问题时，我们都会遇到问题，都会引起愤愤不平或是暴力的反应，”他说。
A recent cartoon by Mr. Charbonnier, shared on social media Wednesday, appeared gruesomely prophetic. It pictured a hapless-looking man, dressed in the style of many Islamic extremists, under the words “still no attacks in France.” The extremist, in a speech bubble, pointed out that he had until the end of January to present his New Year’s wishes.
周三，沙博尼耶不久前创作的一幅漫画在社交媒体上传播。这幅漫画的内容似乎在这次袭击事件中得到了应验。他画了一名沮丧的男子，装扮与许多伊斯兰极端分子相同，漫画上方写着，“法国尚未遭到袭击”。这名极端分子在漫画里的对话泡泡中说，他1月底之前都可以许下他的新年愿望。
Among the dozen people killed in the attack Wednesday were two of the magazine’s founding cartoonists, Jean Cabut, who used the pen name Cabu, and Georges Wolinski. Also killed was Bernard Verlhac, who used the pen name Tignous.
周三遇难的12人中，有两人是创办这本杂志的漫画家：让·卡比(Jean Cabut)——笔名是卡比——和乔治·沃林斯基(Georges Wolinski)。遇难者还包括贝尔纳德·韦里亚克(Bernard Verlhac)，他的笔名为蒂格努斯(Tignous)。
“To have cartoonists slaughtered for publishing cartoons is something we haven’t seen since the 18th century,” said Françoise Mouly, the art editor of The New Yorker magazine, who was born in France and grew up reading Charlie Hebdo. “They were troublemakers for my entire life,” she said.
“漫画家因为发表漫画而遭到杀害，这是我们18世纪以来都不曾见过的，”《纽约客》杂志的美术编辑弗朗索瓦兹·穆利(Françoise Mouly)。穆利生于法国，是阅读着《查理周报》长大的。“在我的记忆中，他们很喜欢制造麻烦。”
The 45-year-old newspaper, part of a long tradition in France of using satire and insolence, regularly targets politicians, the police, bankers, religion and religious figures — from popes to prophets. This week’s issue included a mock debate about whether Jesus exists.
这家有45年历史的报纸，是法国用讽刺和无礼来针对政客、警察、银行家、宗教以及宗教人物的长期传统的一部分。这些宗教人物既包括教皇，也包括先知。本周的报纸就包括关于耶稣是否存在的讽刺性讨论。
The newspaper was born in controversy in 1970 when a publication called Hara-Kiri, where Mr. Cabut and Mr. Wolinski had worked, folded after coming under criticism for mocking the death of Charles de Gaulle. Its staff pivoted to set up a new weekly, Charlie Hebdo — Charlie Weekly — a reference to its reprint of Charlie Brown cartoons from the United States. The paper’s founding “was the moment when cartoonists became important in French culture,” Ms. Mouly said.
《查理周报》于1970年在争议中诞生，当时，一份名叫《切腹》(Hara-Kiri)的出版物因讽刺夏尔·戴高乐(Charles de Gaulle)遭受强烈批评，后来倒闭。于是，这家出版机构的员工创立了一份新的周刊，也就是《查理周报》，名字取自它转载美国漫画“查理·布朗”(Charlie Brown)。这份报纸的创办意味着“漫画家在法国文化中变得重要起来”，穆利说。
Though its circulation is only around 30,000, Charlie Hebdo has sparked controversy and drawn the anger of Muslims with its provocative cartoons. In 2006, The newspaper reprinted cartoons of Muhammad first published by the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten, prompting a lawsuit from French Muslim groups.
尽管发行量只有大约3万，《查理周报》的挑衅性漫画还是引发了争议，并激怒了穆斯林。2006年，这家报纸转载了丹麦报纸《日德兰邮报》(Jyllands-Posten)率先刊登的穆罕默德的漫画，遭到法国穆斯林群体的起诉。