BERLIN — The dual-volume doorstop of a meticulously historically annotated version of Adolf Hitler’s “Mein Kampf” was one of Germany’s best-selling works of nonfiction last year, its publisher said on Tuesday, announcing that it would bring out a sixth run at the end of the month.
柏林——从历史角度严谨对待的两卷巨著阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)的《我的奋斗》(Mein Kampf)注释版是去年德国最畅销的非虚构类图书之一。该书出版商周二公布了这条消息，并宣布将在本月底推出第六次印刷的图书。
Originally published in the 1920s and banned for seven decades in Germany, the new version, “Hitler, Mein Kampf, A Critical Edition,” spent 35 weeks on Der Spiegel’s best-seller list and sold about 85,000 copies, according to the Institute of Contemporary History in Munich.
《我的奋斗》最初出版于20世纪20年代，后来有70年的时间在德国被禁止发行。据慕尼黑的当代史研究所(Institute for Contemporary History)称，新版本《希特勒，我的奋斗，评论版》(Hitler, Mein Kampf, A Critical Edition)在《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)的畅销榜上停留了35周，总销量已达约8.5万册。
The success of the critical and annotated version, it said, was proof that the attempt by a team of historians to annotate, criticize and contextualize the original much-reviled work was worth it. The project had been planned to follow the expiration at the end of 2015 of a 70-year copyright held by the state of Bavaria and stirred controversy during the three years it took to complete.
该研究所称，评论注释版的成功证明，一组史学家给备受斥责的原版写注释、评论和背景介绍的努力是值得的。按照原定计划，该套书在2015年底巴伐利亚州的70年版权到期后被推出。在其三年的筹备期内，它引发了诸多争议。
“We are very happy that the ambitious bridge between fundamental academic work and historical-political explanation appears to have succeeded,” said Andreas Wirsching, the institute’s director.
“我们很高兴，架在基础的学术工作与历史政治阐释之间的宏伟桥梁似乎取得了成功，”该研究所所长安德烈亚斯·维尔辛(Andreas Wirsching)说。
Mr. Wirsching said that publication of the work spurred more than five dozen discussions at museums, memorial sites, schools and churches examining the edition, which included 3,500 critical, historical annotations to the original, and showed the level of public interest and countered fears it would fuel neo-Nazi sentiment.
维尔辛说，该著作的出版在博物馆、纪念场所、学校和教堂激发了60多场研究该版本的讨论——该版本包括3500条对原著的评论性、史学性注释——表明了公众的极大兴趣，消除了人们对它会助长新纳粹情绪的担忧。
“On the contrary, the discussions about Hitler’s worldview and dealing with his propaganda presented an opportunity — at a time when authoritarian political beliefs and far-right slogans are again gaining in popularity — to re-examine the ominous roots and results of such totalitarian ideologies,” Mr. Wirsching said.
“相反，对希特勒世界观的讨论以及对他政治宣传的研究让我们有机会重新探讨此类极权思想的不祥根源和结果，尤其是在此刻独裁政治思想和极右口号在民众中再次获得影响力之时，”维尔辛说。
The decision to bring out a new edition of a work that advocated an Aryan “master race” provoked fierce debate before publication. One side argued the new work was an important step toward illuminating an unsavory era in Germany.
该书出版前，这个推出一部倡导日耳曼人是“主宰种族”的著作的新版本的决定引发了激烈辩论。一方认为，新版本是阐明德国那个声名狼藉的时代的重要一步。
The other insisted it would only encourage nationalists and xenophobes at a time when the country was engulfed in its own debate about refugees and the threat posed by foreigners.
另一方认为，它只会鼓励民族主义者和仇外主义者，而此时的德国正陷入关于移民以及外国人带来的威胁的辩论之中。
Because most orders are handled through booksellers, the institute said it had been unable to compile statistics on exactly who had bought the 2,000-page edition. But based on reporting by German regional and local newspapers, the buyers do not appear to be far-right extremists or other radicals, it said.
由于大部分图书是通过书店出售的，所以该机构称，它无法收集数据，以了解究竟是谁买下了这个2000页的版本。但是它说，根据德国地区性和地方性报纸的报道，购买者似乎不是极右极端分子或其他激进人士。
“By and large it appears to be customers who are generally interested in politics and history, as well as people who are active in political education, such as teachers,” the institute said in a statement.
“总的来说，顾客似乎是那些对政治和历史普遍感兴趣的人士以及政治教育方面的活跃人士，比如教师，”该研究所在一项声明中说。
Despite more than 30 queries for translation rights, the institute said it planned to bring out editions only in English and French.
尽管该研究所收到了30多项翻译版权申请，但它只计划推出英语和法语两个译本。
The Nazi leader’s manifesto, which first appeared as two volumes in 1925 and 1927, was banned in Germany by the Allies in 1945 and had not been officially published in the country until the annotated edition was brought out last year.
这位纳粹领导人的宣言最初是在1925年和1927年以两卷的形式亮相的，1945年在德国被盟军列为禁书，之后从未正式出版，直至去年该注释版获得推出。
Also last year, a Leipzig-based publisher of right-wing books began selling a reprint of Hitler’s original work, leading state prosecutors in Leipzig and in Bamberg to begin separate investigations into whether they could press charges for violating laws forbidding propaganda.
也是在去年，莱比锡市的右翼图书出版社开始销售希特勒这部著作的重印版。莱比锡和班伯格的政府检察官分别对此展开调查，以确定能否以违反禁止宣传法对其进行起诉。
Prosecutors could not immediately be reached for comment on Tuesday, but the publisher, Der Schelm, was advertising a second edition of its publication on its website.
周二，本报未能立刻联系到相关检察官，以作出评论，但淘气出版社(Der Schelm)正在自己的网站上宣传该出版物的第二版。