From its very beginnings, “Game of Thrones” has been riddled with sexual brutality. The franchise, which started as a series of fantasy novels by George R. R. Martin about a bleak, feudal world, has at various times included a warrior king who claims his child bride on their wedding night, and the gang rape of a young woman by “half a hundred shouting men behind a tanner’s shop.”
从一开始，《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)就充满了性暴力。乔治·R·R·马丁(George R. R. Martin)的系列奇幻小说描述了一个封建时代的残酷世界，由此衍生的作品讲到了某个勇猛的国王在新婚之夜占有年幼的妻子，以及一名年轻女子“在一家皮革店后面被五十名大喊大叫的男子”轮奸。
These scenes and others have raised concerns, but this discussion was confined to readers and critics of fantasy fiction.
以上以及其他一些场景引发了人们的担心，但参与相关讨论的人并不仅限于奇幻小说的读者和批评人士。
Now the debate about the series’s sexual violence has spilled into the mainstream and grown vehement, fueled by the explosive growth of HBO’s “Game of Thrones” series. In its fourth season, the show, which airs on Sunday nights, averages more than 14 million viewers and has become its cable network’s most watched series since “The Sopranos.”
如今，有关该系列所涉性暴力的讨论已经进入了主流视野，变得激烈起来。HBO《权力的游戏》系列剧集的收视率迅速攀升，为这场讨论推波助澜。周日晚间播出的该剧第四季平均有1400多万观众，已经变成了HBO有线网络自《黑道家族》(The Sopranos)以来收视率最高的电视剧。
In the latest episode, women held captive in a wintry shelter are sexually brutalized. In the deeply controversial episode that preceded it, a scheming noblewoman in an incestuous relationship with her brother is forced to have sex with him, despite her cries of no.
在最新一集中，被关在一个寒冷处所的女性遭遇了性暴力。在非常有争议的前一集中，一名诡计多端且与自己的兄弟有乱伦关系的贵妇被迫与这个兄弟发生性关系，尽管她哭喊着拒绝。
Rape is often presented in television plotlines, where it has far-reaching and lasting consequences for the affected characters. But critics of “Game of Thrones” fear that rape has become so pervasive in the drama that it is almost background noise: a routine and unshocking occurrence.
强奸经常出现在电视情节当中，并对剧中的受害者产生深远持久的影响。然而，批评《权力的游戏》的人担心，在这部剧里，强奸几乎已经变得像背景噪音一样普遍，成为了一种屡见不鲜的常规场景。
Many viewers were roiled by the television episode containing the rape of the noblewoman, Cersei Lannister, by her brother Jaime, and protested on blogs, Facebook and Twitter.
前述贵妇名为瑟曦·兰尼斯特(Cersei Lannister)，她被自己的兄弟杰米(Jaime)强奸的那一集惹怒了许多观众，他们在博客、Facebook和Twitter上表示了抗议。
The outrage was further fueled by comments from the director of that episode, who told the website Hitfix.com that the characters’ coupling became “consensual by the end.”
那一集的导演的评论进一步加剧了观众的愤怒，因为那名导演对Hitfix.com网站说，那两个角色的性交“最后变成了你情我愿”。
That left audiences wondering if the show’s producers truly understood what they had depicted. “That is not what I saw, and that is not what many people saw,” said Maureen Ryan, a television critic for The Huffington Post, who wrote that the scene was unequivocally a rape.
观众由此怀疑，该剧的制作人员是不是真的知道自己在描述什么。“我不是这么看的，许多人都不是这么看的不，”《赫芬顿邮报》(The Huffington Post)的电视评论员莫琳·瑞安(Maureen Ryan)说。瑞安写道，毫无疑问，那个场景描述的是强奸。
Mr. Martin’s “Game of Thrones” novels, known collectively as “A Song of Ice and Fire,” have more than 31 million copies in print, and have been translated into more than 25 different languages, according to his publisher, the Bantam Books imprint of Random House. The HBO series is broadcast in more than 150 countries and is the most pirated show worldwide.
马丁的“权力的游戏”小说合集名为《冰与火之歌》(A Song of Ice and Fire)。据他的出版商、兰登书屋(Random House)旗下的矮脚鸡图书公司(Bantam Books)所说，小说已经印刷了3100多万本，并已被译成超过25种语言。HBO改编的电视剧正在150多个国家播出，还是全世界盗版最严重的剧集。
It’s also perhaps the most popular entertainment property to depict sexual violence frequently and throughout its incarnations on page and on screen. The latest issue of the Game of Thrones comic book, released last week by Dynamite Entertainment, graphically depicts, by the fourth page, a barbarian preparing to rape a nude woman after conquering her village.
它也可能是最受欢迎的纸面和屏幕版本都充斥着性暴力描写的娱乐产品。炸药娱乐(Dynamite Entertainment)上周发行的最新一期《权力的游戏》连环漫画在第四页露骨地描写了一个场景：在占领一名女子所在的村子后，一名野蛮人准备强奸那名裸体的女子。
In response to email questions, Mr. Martin wrote that as an artist, he had an obligation to tell the truth about history and about human nature.
在回复通过电子邮件提出的问题时，马丁写道，作为一名艺术家，他有阐述历史真相和真实人性的义务。
“Rape and sexual violence have been a part of every war ever fought, from the ancient Sumerians to our present day,” said Mr. Martin, 65, who lives in Santa Fe, N.M.
“从苏美尔人的时代直到现在，所有的战争都包含强奸和性暴力，”65岁的马丁说。他目前住在新墨西哥州的圣塔菲。
“To omit them from a narrative centered on war and power would have been fundamentally false and dishonest,” he continued, “and would have undermined one of the themes of the books: that the true horrors of human history derive not from orcs and Dark Lords, but from ourselves.”
“以战争和权力为中心的故事如果遗漏了这些内容，就会陷入彻底的虚假和虚伪，”他接着说，“还会损害书中的一个主题：人类历史中的真正恐惧并不来自半兽人和黑暗领主，而来自我们自身。”
David Benioff and D. B. Weiss, the show runners of the HBO series and responsible for its day-to-day operation, declined to be interviewed.
HBO剧集主创、负责此片日常运营作的大卫·贝尼奥夫(David Benioff)和D·B·威斯(D.B. Weiss)拒绝接受采访。
Michael Lombardo, the president for programming at HBO, said in an email that “The choices our creative teams make are based on the motivations and sensibilities that they believe define their characters. We fully support the vision and artistry of Dan and David’s exceptional work and we feel this work speaks for itself.”
HBO的节目总裁迈克尔·隆巴多(Michael Lombardo)在电子邮件中说，“我们的创意团队所做的选择是以他们认为对塑造角色具有决定作用的动机和情感为基础的。我们完全支持丹和大卫通过出色工作呈现的见识和技巧，我们认为这部作品会为自己正名。”
Other television shows like “Downton Abbey” and “Private Practice” have had story lines about rape, but they were singular events that explored the repercussions.
《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)和《私人诊所》(Private Practice)等电视节目也有关于强奸的故事情节，但它们都是旨在探究其后果的特异事件。
“The best depictions don’t just leave it at the dramatic device of the rape itself,” said Scott Berkowitz, president of the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network, an anti-sexual violence group. “They use it to tell a deeper story about recovery and what effect it has on that person.”
“最好的故事不会只把强奸作为增加戏剧性的工具，”反性暴力组织全国反强奸、虐待及乱伦网络(Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network)的负责人斯科特·伯科威茨(Scott Berkowitz)说。“他们会利用强奸来讲述一个更深刻的故事，讲述复原的过程，以及强奸对当事人的影响。”
But “Game of Thrones” does not seem to be doing that.
然而，《权力的游戏》似乎没有这么做。
“To have sexual violence treated so cavalierly, it’s very difficult to see that,” said Mariah Huehner, a writer and editor of comic books who has contributed repeatedly to the online debate. “It’s too upsetting to see, and I just don’t know that I can keep going with that.”
“他们对性暴力的处理十分随意，人们很难看到这一点，”连环漫画作者及编辑玛丽亚·许纳(Mariah Huehner)说。她曾多次参与网上的讨论。“它糟糕得让人看不下去，我不知道自己还能不能接着看。”
Ms. Ryan of The Huffington Post said in an interview that “Game of Thrones” possesses “an incredible ability to make you care about people who really have done terrible things — repeatedly, it’s done that, and I think that’s its great strength.”
《赫芬顿邮报》的瑞安在采访中称，《权力的游戏》拥有“一种不可思议的能力，能让你关心那些确曾做下可怕事情的人——它一再做到了这一点，我认为这就是它的伟大之处。”
“Sexual assault happens in the world,” Ms. Ryan said. “It’s something that we process through popular culture. The people making it should really take it upon themselves to bring out all the aspects of that experience — make it at least as much about the person who survives the attack as the person who perpetrated it.”
“世界上到处都有性侵事件，”瑞安说。“我们会在流行文化中对其进行加工处理。制作者真的应该担起责任，把这种经历的各个方面呈现出来——至少，你应该以同等的力度来呈现受害者和施害者。”
“That’s how you respect the experience,” she said. “That’s how it’s not exploitative.”
“这样才能体现对这种经历的尊重，”她说。“这样才不是对这种经历进行利用。”