This boy toy’s all grown up. To play Bassam Al Fayeed, a Middle Eastern dictator’s son living incognito as a Beverly Hills pediatrician named Barry on FX’s new “Tyrant,” Adam Rayner traded the callow sexual maneuverings he optimized in British series like “Mistresses” and “At Home With the Braithwaites” for the gravitas befitting a family man.
这个小帅哥长大了，在FX的新剧《暴君》中，亚当·雷纳(Adam Rayner)饰演一个中东独裁者的儿子巴萨姆·阿里·费伊德(Bassam Al Fayeed)，化名巴里(Barry)住在贝弗利山庄，是个儿科医师。为了饰演这个角色，他把自己在英剧《情妇》(Mistresses)和《布莱斯维茨一家》(At Home With the Braithwaites)中的稚嫩性感换成了适宜家居男人的庄重。
But whose family? When he is finally persuaded to attend his nephew’s wedding, Barry defiantly opts for an economy-class seat on the empty airliner his father has bought out to fly him, his California-girl wife and two typically American teenagers to his native country for the first time in two decades. Once he arrives at his parents’ palace, it becomes clear why he chose to abandon his former life. Something wicked this way comes, and the most evil force isn’t necessarily the most obvious one.
但那是谁的家？最后他被说服去参加侄子的婚礼，父亲为他包下整个班机，巴里却挑衅地坐在了经济舱，他的妻子是个加利福尼亚姑娘，两个十几岁的孩子都是典型的美国人，二十年来他们第一次跟随他回到祖国。回到父母的宫殿，他为何选择抛弃之前这种生活就一目了然了。有些可怕的东西开始浮现，最邪恶的势力还看不分明。
In a phone interview from Tel Aviv, where he is filming this series created by Gideon Raff, one of the forces behind Showtime’s “Homeland,” Mr. Rayner, 37 — who was raised between a farm in England and Northern California, attended the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art, and appeared a couple years back on TNT’s “Hawthorne” — talked with Kathryn Shattuck about preparing for the role that could just be his big breakthrough. These are excerpts from their conversation.
亚当·雷纳在特拉维夫继续拍摄该剧时接受了电话采访。这部剧集的主创是基甸·拉夫(Gideon Raff)，他也是映时台(Showtime)《国土安全》(Homeland)的主创之一。雷纳今年37岁，在英格兰农场和北加利福尼亚长大，上过伦敦音乐与戏剧艺术学院，几年前在TNT的《护士长的故事》(Hawthorne)中露过面。《暴君》这个角色为他带来重大突破，他和凯瑟琳·莎塔克(Kathryn Shattuck)谈论了如何为这个角色做准备， 下面是他们的对话节选。
Q. So, are we to assume that Barry is the tyrant here?
问：在剧中，巴里就是这个“暴君”吗？
A. The short answer is yes. I don’t know exactly where the story line goes, but I signed on to a story about a man who runs away from a ruling life and is eventually forced to face his dark destiny of taking power himself. It may take some time for him to get there, and there are a lot of tyrants in between.
答：简单地说，是。我不知道故事会怎么发展，但我参演的是这样一个故事：一个男人逃离统治国家的生活，最终又被迫面对亲自掌权的黑暗命运。他可能需要一些时间才能做到，这中间还有很多残暴分子。
Were you in the market for a series?
问：你当时在找连续剧拍吗？
What normally happens with these kinds of big jobs is that they search like hell for a year or so to find someone, and when they’re absolutely desperate and can’t find anyone else, they come to me. My agent asked me to videotape an audition for a 40-year-old Arab family man. I said, “Are you serious?” Somehow I fit the bill.
答：这种重大的工作一般是他们拼命找演员找了大约一年，等他们最后绝望了，也找不到别人，就来找我了。我的经纪人让我拍一段试镜的录像，表演一个40岁的阿拉伯居家男人。我说：“你是认真的吗？”不管怎样我符合他们的要求。
That’s quite a palace your fictional family lives in. Where do you imagine “Tyrant” is set?
问：你在剧中的家庭住在豪华的宫殿里。你想象中《暴君》应该发生在什么地方？
It’s deliberately ambiguous. It’s supposed to bring to mind Syria, Jordan, Egypt. Not so much the Gulf states. But Egypt would be a good example of what supposedly, up until recently, was a progressive regime. Syria is perhaps a better example of what happens when things go really wrong.
答：它的背景是刻意弄得模糊的。可能会让人想到叙利亚、约旦或者埃及。它不太像海湾国家。但是埃及似乎会是个好例子，直到最近，它还是个改革中的政体。叙利亚或许是更好的例子，显示出当一切都大错特错时会怎样。