PARIS — A special issue of the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo went on sale in France on Wednesday, amid a week of official commemorations and other events paying tribute to the 17 people who were killed one year ago in attacks last January at the newspaper’s office and other locations in the Paris area.
巴黎——为悼念去年1月在《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)报社办公室和巴黎地区其他地点遭受的恐怖袭击中遇害的17位民众，法国举行了一系列纪念活动，包括为期一周的官方纪念活动，讽刺报纸《查理周报》也于星期三出版了一期特刊。
The commemorations have been accompanied by a flurry of book releases and new documentaries on the subject, as well as a resurgence of questions about whether French intelligence and police services failed to adequately assess security threats against the newspaper, which had been under police protection.
伴随纪念活动的举行，各界推出了一系列关于该事件的新书和新纪录片。民众也开始再度质疑，法国情报部门和警察部门是否未能充分评估该报社的安全威胁，之前该报已经受到了警方保护。
The newspaper has printed around a million copies of the issue, up from a typical print run of about 100,000, and it includes drawings by illustrators who were killed in the attacks as well as guest contributions.
这份特刊已经印刷了大约一百万份，而通常该报的印数约为10万份，其中含有袭击中遇害的插图家的作品，以及特约作者的稿件。
“Charlie is insolence elevated as a virtue, and bad taste as a mainstay of elegance,” the French culture minister, Fleur Pellerin, wrote in her contribution to the issue. “For all of us, continue to create, to draw freedom.”
“《查理周报》将粗鲁无礼提升为美德，将恶趣味升华成极致的优雅，”法国文化部长弗勒尔·佩尔兰(Fleur Pellerin)在特刊中撰文写道。“请不断去创造，描绘出自由——为我们所有人。”
Laurent Sourisseau, the newspaper’s editorial director, wrote, “It isn’t two little idiots in balaclavas who are going to screw up our life’s work.”
报社的编辑主任洛朗·苏里素(Laurent Sourisseau)写道：“那两个戴着面罩的小丑不会毁掉我们毕生的工作。”
“They aren’t going to see Charlie die, it is Charlie that is going to see them die,” he added.
“他们不会看到《查理周报》的消逝，而《查理周报》将会见证他们的灭亡，”他补充说。
The commemorations are being held less than two months after the coordinated attacks on Nov. 13 that left 130 dead in the Paris area, most of them in neighborhoods not far from Charlie Hebdo’s former offices, casting a somber mood on the country, which is still under a state of emergency.
这些纪念活动的举行，距11月13日在巴黎地区造成130人死亡的经过筹划的袭击还不到两个月的时间。而其中大多数人是在距《查理周报》以前的办公室不远处遇害的，这让仍处于紧急状态的法国蒙上了沉郁的情绪。
On Wednesday morning, Parisians did not appear to be flocking to newsstands to buy the special issue, as they had for the first issue to be published after the attacks, when millions of copies of the newspaper quickly sold out.
星期三上午，巴黎人似乎并没有像恐怖袭击后购买第一期特刊那样，蜂拥到报摊购买这一期。去年时数以百万计的报纸很快销售一空。
Mimoun Nekrouz, 42, a newspaper seller near the St.-Paul neighborhood of Paris, said he had 200 copies but had sold only 20 so far. “It’s completely different from last year, when I had a line in front of the kiosk and everything was gone in an hour,” he said.
巴黎圣保罗附近的一位卖报人，42岁的米蒙·内克罗斯(Mimoun Nekrouz)说他进了200份，但迄今为止只售出了20份。“这与去年完全不同，当时我的报亭前有人排队购买，一个小时就卖光了，”他说。
Those who were buying copies on Wednesday said they wanted to support the newspaper. Ineke Louiche, 64, a tourism guide who lives in France but is originally from the Netherlands, said she had bought a copy for her brother.
那些在星期三购买杂志的人表示，他们希望支持这家报社。64岁伊内克·卢彻(Ineke Louiche)是一位来自荷兰但居住在法国的导游，她说她为她的哥哥买了一本。
“In any case, it was important for me to buy this special issue,” Ms. Louiche said. “I already read it before the attacks, and you can feel that something has changed, the soul of the paper is gone a little, but this front page is a form of dark humor. I like it.”
“无论如何，购买这期特刊对我很重要，”卢彻女士说。“袭击之前我就看过这份报纸，你能感受到有些东西已经改变了。这份报纸丢了一点灵魂，但这个头版是一种黑色幽默。我喜欢。”
The cover shows a bearded figure, representing God, with an assault rifle slung across his back and a bloodstained robe, and the headline: “One Year Later: The Assassin Is Still on the Run.”
本期封面是一个代表神的大胡子形象，背上挂着一把突击步枪，穿着血迹斑斑的长袍，标题是：“一年后：刺客仍然在逃”。
On the morning of Jan. 7 last year, two brothers, Saïd and Chérif Kouachi, stormed Charlie Hebdo’s offices in the 11th Arrondissement of Paris with assault rifles, leaving 12 dead. They later said they had carried out the attack on behalf of Al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen.
去年1月7日上午，赛义德·库阿希(Saïd Kouachi)和谢里夫·库阿希( Chérif Kouachi)两兄弟手持突击步枪冲进《查理周报》位于巴黎11区的办公室，杀死了12人。他们后来说，他们是代表基地组织在也门的分支实施的袭击。
The brothers fled the scene and died in a standoff with the police north of Paris on Jan. 9. That same day, another gunman, Amedy Coulibaly, who is believed to have coordinated with the Kouachis but said he was acting on behalf of the Islamic State, took hostages at a kosher supermarket in eastern Paris, killing four of them before he was shot and killed by police. A day earlier, Mr. Coulibaly had killed a police officer in the southern suburb of Montrouge.
库阿希兄弟俩逃离现场，并于1月9日在巴黎北部同警方对峙时被击毙。同一天，另一名据信与库阿希兄弟发起协同袭击的枪手阿梅迪·库利巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)，在巴黎东部的一个犹太洁食(kosher)超市挟持了多名人质，并在被警察射杀前杀害了其中四人。他说他是代表伊斯兰国(Islamic State)发起的袭击。之前一天，库里巴利在巴黎南郊的蒙鲁日杀害了一名警察。