Time magazine, unsurprisingly, has named President-elect Donald J. Trump its person of the year for 2016, calling him the “president of the divided states of America.”
《时代》周刊(Time)毫不意外地将候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)评选为2016年年度人物，称他是“美利坚分众国总统”(president of the divided states of America)。
Mr. Trump was not happy about that title, but called his selection a “tremendous honor.”
特朗普不喜欢这个称呼，不过他表示，自己被选中是“巨大的荣幸”。
As NBC was building suspense for the magazine’s carefully staged announcement on the “Today” show, Mr. Trump posted on Twitter at 7:18 a.m. that he would appear shortly on the program.
就在NBC频道对该杂志在《今日秀》(Today)上精心策划的宣布活动制造悬念时，特朗普于上午7:18分在Twitter上发布消息，称他将在节目中短暂出现。
The annual marketing gimmick has, since the 1920s, attempted to select a single figure or a group that has influenced the year’s events.
从20世纪20年代起，这个一年一度的宣传噱头试图选出影响该年重大事件的一个人物或一个团体。
Mr. Trump beat out 10 other finalists announced on Monday, including Hillary Clinton; Simone Biles, the Olympic gymnast; Beyoncé; Mark Zuckerberg; and the Flint, Mich., whistle-blowers, the residents and civil engineers who sounded the alarm on lead-poisoned water in the city.
特朗普击败了周一公布的其他10位候选人，包括希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)；奥运会体操运动员西蒙·拜尔斯(Simone Biles)；碧昂斯(Beyoncé)；马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)；以及密歇根州弗林特市的揭发者、当地的居民和土木工程师，他们曾就该市水源遭到铅污染敲响警钟。
The magazine’s “No. 2” person of the year was Mrs. Clinton, who is on track to win the popular vote but lost the Electoral College in the presidential election to Mr. Trump.
该杂志的年度二号人物是希拉里·克林顿。在与特朗普的总统竞选中，她赢得了普选，却输掉了选举团选举。
In a phone interview with Matt Lauer, a host of “Today,” Mr. Trump said: Time is “a very important magazine. I’ve been lucky enough to be on the cover many times this year and last year.”
在接受《今日秀》主持人马特·劳尔(Matt Lauer)的电话采访时，特朗普说：“《时代》周刊是一本非常重要的杂志。今年和去年，我非常幸运地能够多次出现在它的封面上。”
But he added: “When you say divided states of America, I didn’t divide them. They’re divided now. I mean there’s a lot of division, and we’re going to put it back together and we’re going to have a country that’s very well healed.”
不过他补充说：“你提到美利坚分众国，它们现在是分裂的，但我没有分裂各州。我的意思是，当下存在很多分裂，我们将把它们团结起来，我们将拥有一个完全康复的国家。”
It was unclear if Mr. Trump had seen the Time cover yet and knew that it was the magazine, and not Mr. Lauer, that had called the United States “divided.”
目前尚不清楚特朗普是否看到《时代》的封面，知道是那本杂志，而非劳尔，称美国是“分裂”的。
The magazine’s annual selection is more of an exercise in self-promotion than covering the news, but Mr. Trump actually gave “Today” some news during the announcement.
该杂志的年度评选更多地是一种自我宣传，而非新闻报道，不过，特朗普在这次公布过程中的确向《今日秀》节目透露了一些新闻。
In a wide-ranging interview, the president-elect told Mr. Lauer that he expected to announce his choice for secretary of state next week. He also addressed his apparent decision in June — announced on Tuesday — to sell all of his stock holdings.
在一次内容广泛的采访中，这位候任总统告诉劳尔，他打算下周公布国务卿人选。他还提到自己今年6月做出的卖掉自己所有股票的明确决定——这是他周二公布的。
Nancy Gibbs, Time’s editor, said Mr. Trump’s selection this year was “one of the more straightforward” choices the magazine had made.
《时代》周刊的主编南茜·吉布斯(Nancy Gibbs)称，今年选择特朗普是该杂志做出的“较为直接的选择之一”。
Mr. Trump has been on the magazine’s cover many times in 2016 for features that were both positive and negative. In January, he called its profile of him “one of the best I’ve ever had.” In August, Time featured an illustrated likeness of him melting down, as rumors swirled that his campaign was faltering; two months later, it revisited that image to show him in full meltdown.
2016年，特朗普多次登上该杂志的封面，相关文章既有正面的，也有负面的。今年1月，他称该杂志对自己的特写“是我见过的最好的一篇”。今年8月，《时代》的封面插画展示的是一个正在融化的特朗普头像，因为当时疯传，他的竞选正走向衰落；两个月后，该杂志再次用那个头像展现他已完全融化。
Last year, Mr. Trump complained when Time chose Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, and not him as its person of the year. “They picked the person who is ruining Germany,” he said then.
去年，特朗普曾抱怨《时代》选择德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)而非自己作为年度人物。“他们选了那个正在毁掉德国的人，”当时他说。
In 2013, he called its list of influential people “a joke” and said the magazine would soon fail.
2013年，他称该杂志的最具影响力人物榜单是个“笑话”，称该杂志很快就会破产。
Time has occasionally chosen controversial figures, among them Adolf Hitler (in 1938) and Josef Stalin (twice: in 1939 and 1942).
《时代》偶尔会选择具有争议的人物，包括阿道夫·希特勒（Adolf Hitler，1938年）和约瑟夫·斯大林（Joseph Stalin，两次，分别在1939年和1942年）。
In 1969, it chose “The Middle Americans” for the honor, celebrating them for continuing to pray in public schools in defiance of the United States Supreme Court and electing Richard M. Nixon (who himself would become the person of the year in 1971) to the White House.
1969年，它选择“美国中产阶级”为年度人物，赞扬他们违抗美国最高法院的裁决，继续在公立学校祈祷，并选举理查德·M·尼克松（Richard M. Nixon，他本人成为1971年的年度人物）担任总统。
Nearly 40 years later, the magazine plastered a mirror on the cover of the magazine and named “You” its person of the year for 2006. In 1982, there was a “machine of the year”: the computer.
近40年后，该杂志在封面上贴了一面镜子，把“你”选为2006年的年度人物。1982年的“年度机器”是电脑。