An Italianate Victorian mini-estate built in 1869 on a hilltop above the Delaware River by a descendant of John Reading — Colonial New Jersey’s first native-born governor — is about to enter the market at $999,000. The house has been owned for the last six years by the author Elizabeth Gilbert, whose best-selling memoir, “Eat, Pray, Love,” revolutionized the concept of self-actualization for its fans. The annual property tax is $13,688.
1869年，新泽西殖民地首位本地总督的后裔约翰·雷丁(John Reading)在德拉瓦河(Delaware River)边的小山顶上，修建了一栋意大利风格的维多利亚式迷你庄园。如今，这处房产即将进入市场，售价99.9万美元（约合人民币625.9万元）。六年來，这栋房屋一直为作家伊丽莎白·吉尔伯特(Elizabeth Gilbert)所有，她撰写的畅销回忆录《一辈子做女孩》（Eat, Pray, Love，又名《美食、祈祷和恋爱》——译注）让她的书迷们对“自我实现”的理解，发生了彻底改变。此栋房屋每年需缴纳的房产税为13688美元（约合人民币85760.8元）。
It is probably the most expensive four-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath house in Frenchtown, N.J., an artsy but rural village that is a stone’s throw from Bucks County, Pa., and just over an hour from New York City. “It was the most expensive place in town back when I bought it, but it always has been,” said Ms. Gilbert of her quaint yellow clapboard at 3 Reading Avenue (the gray gravel lane serves just two houses). “It and its twin next door were built to be the grandest homes in town.”
这可能是新泽西州的弗伦奇敦镇(Frenchtown)上最贵的一栋带四间卧室与两间半浴室的房子了。这个小镇，是个充满艺术气息的乡村地区，与宾夕法尼亚州的巴克士郡(Bucks County)仅隔一箭之遥，去纽约市也只需一个多小时。“我买下这栋房屋时，它已经是镇上最贵的地方了，但这里也一直如此，”吉尔伯特谈及这栋位于雷丁大道3号(3 Reading Avenue)的、古色古香的黄色墙板房屋时说（那条灰色的砾石小巷仅供两栋房屋使用），“这栋房子，以及它隔壁一模一样的那栋，都被建成了镇上最豪华的住宅。”
It is definitely the most eclectically renovated house in Frenchtown, right up to the peak of its cupola, now crowned by a copper roof. The formal circular driveway that once dominated the front lawn has been replaced by a colorful meadow of wildflowers and berry bushes. In place of the attic, there is the 1,400-square-foot “Skybrary” (translation: library in the sky), a mystical aerie carved and customized for Ms. Gilbert by an imaginative carpenter, Michael Flood. In the basement, a terra-cotta honeycomb from Brazil holds 500 bottles of wine. Buddha statuary is a recurring theme in the garden.
这肯定是弗伦奇敦镇上翻修得最博采众长的一栋房屋了。连圆形屋顶的最顶端也不例外，现在那上面已冠上了铜屋顶。原先占据了屋前草坪大部分地方的环形车道，已被一片长满五颜六色野花与浆果灌木的草地取代。在阁楼上，有一座面积1400平方英尺（约130平方米）的“天空之馆”（Skybrary，即天空中的图书馆），这是一位想象力丰富的木匠迈克尔·弗勒德(Michael Flood)专门为吉尔伯特量身定制的。地下室里有一座来自巴西的蜂巢式陶土酒窖，里面装着500瓶红酒。而花园里，佛像是反复出现的一个主题。
Ms. Gilbert wrote her most recent best-seller, “The Signature of All Things” (Viking Adult, 2013), a historical/botanical romance, while ensconced at her 15-foot-long acacia slab desk in the “Skybrary.” A king-size “napping bed” is tucked in a corner, 11 windows resemble a ship’s portholes (hawks, not fish, go floating by outside), and the original ceiling beams are dangerously low. A flight of stairs leads to the intimate cupola, with its 360-degree views.
吉尔伯特就是在那座“天空之馆”中，伏在她那张15英尺（约4.6米）长的金合欢实木书桌上，写完了她最新的一本畅销小说《万物签名》(The Signature of All Things，由Viking Adult出版社于2013年出版)，是一个涉及历史学与植物学的浪漫故事。阁楼的角落里放着一张特大号的“午休床”；屋内还有11扇仿佛轮船舷窗的窗户（但窗外掠过的不是游鱼，而是雄鹰）；天花板上，未经翻修的屋梁低得不太安全；另有一段楼梯通往私密的穹顶小室，从那里可以看到360度的景色。
“I really believe that whoever buys the house will do it because they have an emotional attachment to this enchanted space up here,” she said of the attic.
“我深信，无论是谁买下这栋房屋，其决心都会来自对楼上这处美妙空间产生的喜爱。”她谈起这间阁楼。
Downstairs, the main hallway is flanked by an office/library and a country kitchen with a wood-burning stove, tin ceiling, plank floors and a marble-topped center island with a Bertazzoni six-burner range as its centerpiece. The kitchen, after the removal of a wall, flows into the living room, which faces west toward the river. The dining room across the hall from the living room has south and west exposures, and pocket doors that separate it from the library, or not. The powder room has an automated Japanese toilet/bidet and an exotic Balinese lava stone sink.
楼下，主门厅旁有一间办公室兼书房，还有一间乡村厨房（country kitchen，指有足够空间用于烹饪和进餐的大面积厨房——译注），里面有一个燃木炉子、锡顶天花板、板条木地板，以及一座大理石台面的中央岛台，上面安了一台波特佐尼(Bertazzoni)的六眼灶具，作为主体部件。这间厨房在拆除了一堵墙壁后，与客厅融为一体，朝向西边的河流。起居室大厅对面的餐厅面朝西南，装有推拉门，可以把餐厅与书房隔开或者连通。化妆室里有全自动的日式马桶/坐浴盆，和一个颇具异域风情的巴厘岛火山岩盥洗池。
On the second floor, the master bedroom and main guest room face the river; the master bath has an antique claw-foot bathtub and river views. Ms. Gilbert expanded the second bath to add a steam-room/shower with a natural stone floor, a stone bench for reclining, and decorative Tunisian mosaics. The smallest of the bedrooms has a “secret” back staircase leading to the kitchen (the stairway door on the kitchen level is camouflaged to match the custom cabinetry).
二楼，主卧和主客房都朝向那条河；主卧的浴室里安了一只古董兽足浴缸，可以观看河景。吉尔伯特扩建了那间客用房的浴室，增加了一间桑拿房/淋浴室，里面铺着天然石材地板、有一条可以倚靠的石制长凳，并贴有装饰性的突尼斯马赛克。卧室中最小的一间，带有一段“秘密”后楼梯，通往厨房（这段楼梯开在厨房那边的门被做了些伪装，以便与定制橱柜搭配起来）。
There is ample charm outside, too. The house sits on a three-quarter-acre lot with prime western views of the valley and river and has a wraparound porch with Brazilian plank floors. The original outhouse has been repurposed as a garden shed; the north side-yard has a Pennsylvania bluestone terrace and barbecue area; gardens of perennials, herbs and native berries radiate from the east-facing screened summer porch off the kitchen.
室外空间也是魅力十足。这栋房屋坐落于一块面积为四分之三英亩（约3035平方米）的土地上，可以看见西边最漂亮的山谷与河流景色，一条铺着巴西板条地板的门廊环绕房屋。原来的一间外屋，已被改建为一座花园凉亭；北边的侧院里有一座宾夕法尼亚青石平台和一个烧烤区；一座长有草本植物、本地浆果类植物及多年生植物的花园，从厨房外那段朝东的封闭式夏日长廊向外延伸。
There are two reasons Ms. Gilbert and her husband, José Nunes (the Brazil-born importer she met in Bali on her “East, Pray, Love” odyssey and married in 2007), have decided to sell their house and move, with their dog, Rocky, to a smaller Victorian in the heart of Frenchtown near Two Buttons, the Pan-Asian emporium they own.
有两点原因，促使吉尔伯特与丈夫荷西·纽尼斯（José Nunes，一位出生于巴西的进口贸易商，她在巴厘岛进行“美食、祈祷和恋爱”的冒险之旅时遇见了他，并于2007年喜结连理）作出出售他们房屋的决定，并带着他们的宠物狗洛基(Rocky)搬进一栋较小的维多利亚式住宅。后者位于弗伦奇敦镇的中心地带，靠近他们拥有的一家泛亚洲百货商店Two Buttons。
“The rational explanation is that we’re downsizing, that this lovely house is bigger than we need, especially because we travel so much,” she said.
“合理的解释，是我们在缩减居住空间，而我俩住的这栋可爱的屋子有点大了，尤其是因为我们常常要去旅行，”她说。
“The irrational but accurate explanation is that I have to move after I finish a book,” she added. “We poured a lot of work and love into this house as if we were going to stay forever, but the truth is, neither of us stay anyplace for very long. Now that we’ve made everything perfect inside and outside, it’s time to go. I’m ready to write a new book and I can’t do it in the ‘Skybrary’ because I feel like that room belongs to Alma,” the protagonist of “The Signature of All Things.”
“合理而确切的解释，是我写完一本书之后就得搬家，”她补充道，“我们在这栋屋子里付出了很多精力和爱心，就像我们要永远住在这里一样；但事实是，我们俩都不会在任何地方待很长时间。既然我们已经把房子里里外外都布置妥当了，也就到了该走的时候。我准备写一本新书，但无法在‘天空之馆’中写出来，因为我觉得那个房间是属于阿尔玛(Alma)的，”就是《万物签名》中的主人公。
An appointment-only open house for brokers and buyers is scheduled for April 26; the contact number for the property manager, Rayya Elias: (917) 650-5223. Ms. Gilbert and her husband are amenable to selling the home fully furnished. “All we really need to take is our dog, my husband’s cooking spices and the paintings,” she said.
房产经纪人和买家看房需提前预约，时间定在4月26日；该物业管理人拉伊耶·伊莱亚斯(Rayya Elias)的联系电话是：(917)650-5223。吉尔伯特和丈夫愿意将这栋房屋连同家具一起出售。“我们唯一需要带走的就是我们的宠物狗，我丈夫的烹饪调味品和那些绘画。”她说。