Life could be complicated for Chinese aristocrats in the 1700s. Just ask the members of the Jia family, who populate “A Dream of Red Pavilions,” Pan Asian Repertory’s handsome and solemn new production at the Clurman Theater. They think everything is going to be fine when one of the daughters is chosen to be a royal courtesan. And they never even know that they have two immortal beings living with them, incarnated as family members.
18世纪中国贵族的生活是很复杂的，不信问问《红楼梦》里贾家的人就知道了，这出精彩而庄严的新剧由泛亚剧团(Pan Asian Repertory)出品，将在克勒曼剧场(Clurman Theater)上演。贾家有一个女儿入选皇妃，他们觉得一切都会顺顺利利。但他们却不知道，有两个神仙化身家庭成员，与他们生活在一起。
The playwright, Jeremy Tiang, has to be commended for thinking big. Cao Xueqin’s “Dream of the Red Chamber,” the mid-18th-century novel his play is based on, was 80 chapters long in its shortest form, 120 in its longest, and included some 500 characters, with more than 40 of them considered major. Mr. Tiang pares it down to 18 (mostly Jia relatives and maids), played by a valiant cast of nine. No wonder the production feels so much like a study summary, with undeveloped subplots popping up like untended garden flowers and unelucidated motivations running rampant.
编剧程异(Jeremy Tiang)的宏大构思值得称许。他的剧本建立在曹雪芹于18世纪中期创作的小说《红楼梦》基础之上，这本小说的较短版本有80章，长版本有120章，涉及500个人物，40个主要人物。程先生把主要人物缩减到18个（主要是贾家人和侍女），并由9个演员饰演，非常大胆。不出意料，作品有点像概述，不时有未经展开的次要情节像是花园里自己冒出来的花朵一般，无法解释的动机也有很多。
The central love story, on which Mr. Tiang wisely focuses, begins in the spirit world. A talking stone expresses a desire to experience the mortal world and human life. He is soon born to the Jia family as Baoyu (Vichet Chum). Before his transition, he meets and is charmed by a talking flower, who expresses the same wish. She is born as Daiyu (Kelsey Wang), a Jia cousin who comes to live with them. Baoyu and Daiyu are drawn to each other, but family members keep them apart. In fact, they trick Baoyu into marrying another cousin, with the help of the traditional opaque bridal veil.
程先生聪明地把重点放在小说的核心爱情故事上。故事从神界开始。一块会说话的石头渴望去人间体验凡人的生活。他很快托生到了贾家，成了宝玉（伟切·查么[Vichet Chum]饰演）。投生之前，他曾经与一朵会说话的花相恋，她也有同样的意愿，于是托生为贾家的表亲黛玉（王雅松[Kelsey Wang]饰演），同贾家一起生活。宝玉和黛玉互生爱慕之情，但家族成员拆散了他们。他们使出诡计，让另一个表姐盖着不透明的传统新娘盖头嫁给了宝玉。
Hyun Sook Kim’s period costumes evoke early Qing dynasty splendor. Sheryl Liu’s multipurpose set design is both simple and grand. The novel’s poetic style survives in the dialogue. But despite all those dream scenes and the efforts of two directors, Tisa Chang (the company’s artistic producing director) and Lu Yu, the production never becomes more than a pretty curiosity.
由Hyun Sook Kim设计的古装灵感来自清朝初年的华服。Sheryl Liu设计的舞台背景有多种用途，既简单又庄严。对话再现了小说原著诗一般的风格。但是，尽管有这些梦幻般的场面，以及张渝（Tisa Chang，剧团的艺术总监）和鹿瑜(Lu Yu)两位导演的努力，整部剧无非只是一件漂亮的稀罕玩意儿而已。