The early front-runner in Season 9 of “American Idol” was Andrew Garcia, an amiable pop-R&B singer with a smooth voice, a neck tattoo and a relaxed mien. He was also, by some measures, already something of a star.
《美国偶像》(American Idol)第九季的早期领跑者是可爱的流行-R&B歌手安德鲁·加西亚(Andrew Garcia)，他有着温柔的嗓音，脖子上带刺青，还有种格外轻松的气质。在某些方面，他已经具备明星特质了。
This was 2010, and the YouTube revolution was underway: Mr. Garcia’s cover-song videos on the site were widely liked, which meant that, unlike prior contestants who had come to the show more or less cold, he had a built-in fan base.
那是2010年的事，YouTube革命刚刚兴起：加西亚翻唱歌曲的视频在YouTube网站广受喜爱，也就是说，和之前那些上完节目之后就多少受到冷遇的参赛者们不同，他拥有了一个发展中的粉丝团。
That was also the first year that “Idol” producers allowed contestants to supervise their own Twitter and Facebook accounts, but a few weeks into the experiment, it was cut short: Mr. Garcia reportedly had such a clear lead in Twitter followers that it threatened to pierce the secrecy preferred by “Idol,” which holds its vote totals close, better to prioritize televised drama.
那也是《美国偶像》的制作人第一次允许参赛者运营自己的Twitter和Facebook账号。但是几个星期后就被叫停了：据报道，加西亚在Twitter上的关注人数遥遥领先，这威胁到了《美国偶像》的保密状况，它希望候选人的票数非常接近，以便保持电视节目的悬念。
That was a re-entrenchment maneuver by a superpower dipping a toe into uncharted waters and then recoiling. But it also reflected the new reality of the entertainment business — alternate starmaking apparatuses were on the rise.
就这样，一个超级势力试了试未知的领域，马上就撤回来了，并且采取了防御措施。但这反映出娱乐业内新的现实——另一种造星工具正在崛起。
That “Idol” didn’t embrace social media more aggressively when it first had the chance was a surprise, because in many ways, it trained the generation of young people who would go on to crown not just “Idol” winners but also untold luminaries of YouTube, Vine, YouNow, Periscope and many more. “Idol” was a monolith and a prime-time network television phenomenon, but one in which fans made the stars, not the other way around.
《美国偶像》有了第一次机会之后，没有更积极地接受社交媒体，这很让人奇怪，因为在很多方面，是它培养了第一代年轻人群体，他们不仅仅为《美国偶像》的胜者加冕，也关注那些YouTube、Vine、YouNow、Periscope等许多网站上数不胜数的名人。《美国偶像》曾是一个庞然大物，也是电视网黄金时期的现象级节目，但它是一个歌迷创造明星的节目，而不是反过来。
Now, with the show coming to an end Thursday night at the conclusion of its 15th season, it hasn’t been replaced by other televised singing contests (sorry, “The Voice”) but rather by the grand democracy of the Internet, where to vote with clicks is to breathe.
星期四晚上，这个节目就要随着第15季的告终走向最后的终点，它并不是被其他任何电视唱歌竞赛节目所取代（对不起了，《美国之声》[The Voice]），而是被互联网的广泛民主推向尽头，在网络上，点击投票就是一眨眼的事。
In 2002, when “Idol” debuted, empowering the public to vote on musical talent was a quietly radical act, possible solely because “Idol” was a show about discovering singers that was largely divorced from the music industry. The show was shunned by the old guard for its populism, its reliance on young singers gaming their way through decades-old chestnuts, its unrelenting cheese. And also for its mechanism, in which experts offered advice (and also insults), but actual people made decisions. Fan voting was a gimmick for TV designed to engage viewers, not an accepted A&R technique for record labels.
2002年，《美国偶像》初次登场之时，让公众投票选举音乐天才是非常激进的举动，可能是独一无二的，因为《美国偶像》这档节目发现的歌手在很大程度上是与音乐工业脱离的。这档节目因其平民主义被传统的守门人所批评，它依靠年轻的歌手们一路竞争，突破几十年的陈规，而这正是传统工业一直以来动不得的奶酪。此外它也因商业化备受诟病，节目中专家们向选手提出建议（以及羞辱），但真正做决定的还是电视节前的人们。歌迷投票是电视台设计的噱头，目的是吸引观众，而不是吸引唱片厂牌艺人发展部(A&R)的著名专家。
But it undeniably worked. From the beginning, “Idol” drew millions of votes each week, so many that some fans were accused of finding ways to vote thousands of times for their favorites. In a largely hagiographic documentary aired on Tuesday night, “Idol” suggested that it effectively taught America how to send text messages, so that they might vote.
但是这种做法无疑生效了。从一开始，《美国偶像》每周都能吸引数以百万计的投票者，票数实在太多，有些歌迷被指责为为自己喜欢的歌手投了几千次的票。在周二晚上播放的一个很像“圣徒列传”的纪录片里，《美国偶像》声称，事实上，是它教会了美国人怎么发送短信，以便为选手投票。
By simply inverting and laying bare the usual process — working bottom up instead of top down — “Idol” presented a genuine alternative to familiar music business practices. Sometimes it had the same results: Kelly Clarkson and Carrie Underwood, “Idol” winners and fantastically gifted singers, were absorbed into the major label system and went on to long careers, but they’ve been the exceptions. Other alumni have found less direct paths to success, like Jennifer Hudson, Chris Daughtry and Adam Lambert. And there is a whole ecosystem of midlevel fame occupied by several of the show’s many semi- and almost-celebs, like the Broadway careers of Justin Guarini, Diana DeGarmo or Frenchie Davis. (I was recently in the Nashville International Airport, where the disembodied voice of Bucky Covington welcomed me.)
通过颠倒和直接展示唱片工业内的普通程序——从下至上地工作，而不是从上至下——《美国偶像》代表了一种音乐工业内真正的另类做法。有时候，结果是一样的：《美国偶像》的获胜者、才华出众的歌手凯利·克拉克森(Kelly Clarkson)和卡莉·安德伍德(Carrie Underwood)被纳入大厂牌系统，有了很长的事业生涯，但他们只是例外。其他选手的成功之路就不怎么一帆风顺，比如詹妮弗·哈德森(Jennifer Hudson)、克里斯·多特里(Chris Daughtry)和亚当·兰伯特(Adam Lambert)。中等程度的出名也有一整套生态系统，由节目的许多半出名和接近出名的选手把持，比如进军百老汇的贾斯汀·加里尼(Justin Guarini)、戴安娜·德加莫(Diana DeGarmo)和弗兰奇·戴维斯(Frenchie Davis)。最近我在纳什维尔国际机场时，还听到广播里传来巴吉·科文顿(Bucky Covington)飘渺的歌声。
But “Idol” should be better remembered for how it set the table for the online fan communities that are now the norm. Those fascinated by — or terrified of — Beyoncé’s Beyhive or Rihanna’s Navy might not remember the Claymates of Season 2, who pledged allegiance to the runner-up, Clay Aiken, or the Soul Patrol, supporters of the Season 5 winner, Taylor Hicks. (It should be said that some of the most virulent negative feedback I’ve received online over the years has been from “Idol” loyalists, particularly those enamored of the tepid Season 8 winner, Kris Allen.)
但是《美国偶像》最值得记住的，是它为网络粉丝社区设立了平台，这在如今已经司空见惯。那些赞叹或者害怕碧昂斯(Beyoncé)的粉丝“Beyhive”，或者蕾哈娜(Rihanna)的粉丝“Navy”的人或许不记得第二季的“Claymates”了，他们是亚军克雷·艾肯(Clay Aiken)的粉丝，还有第五季冠军泰勒·希克斯(Taylor Hicks)的拥趸“Soul Patrol”（应该说，这些年来，我在网上得知的一些传播最广的负面反馈正是来自《美国偶像》的忠实观众，特别是第八季那位不好不坏的冠军克里斯·艾伦[Kris Allen]的歌迷们）。
By the time “Idol” began to understand the power of social media, though — say, allowing fans to use Twitter to vote to save contestants in danger of elimination last year — it was already facing declining ratings. It also had become home to a very specific strain of popular taste: Seven of the last eight winners were young, guitar-music-inclined white men who went from awkward and unpolished at the beginning of the season to reasonably smooth at the end. “Idol” began to resemble a combination day-care and elder-care facility, nurturing young singers and outmoded music.
等到《美国偶像》开始理解社交媒体的力量――去年它允许歌迷们使用Twitter来投票，拯救淘汰边缘的参赛者――它已经开始面临日益下降的收视率。它还代表了一种非常扭曲的大众品味：最后的八个获胜者中，有七个是年轻的，倾向于吉他音乐的白人男性，他们在赛季开始显得笨拙纯朴，最后就变得成熟老练了。《美国偶像》开始变成一种类似成人培训班的东西，专门培养年轻歌手和过时的音乐。
A recurring tension in early seasons of “Idol” was whether the true stars of the show were the singers, unknowns pleading for a chance at fame, or the judges, who were the anchors from season to season. (Later seasons of “Idol,” and also “The Voice,” reoriented that discussion for good, by choosing actual stars for judges.) But the real stars of “Idol” turned out to be neither of those groups — it was the fans, who didn’t need to be on camera to have the loudest voice in the room.
在早期的《美国偶像》里有种一再产生的张力：节目真正的明星究竟是歌手、急于出名的普通人还是每一季都出现的评委们（晚期的《美国偶像》和《美国之声》一劳永逸地重新定位了这个争议，挑选真正的明星作为评委）。但是最后证明，《美国偶像》的真正明星并不是以上任何一种群体，而是粉丝们，他们不需要上镜，也能发出最响亮的声音。