The Chinese people should draw an important lesson from the turmoil engulfing Ukraine: Beware of rapid political reform, because it will only end in chaos and bloodshed.
中国人应当从乌克兰的动荡中吸取一个重大教训：当心快速的政治改革，因为那只会带来混乱和流血。
So advises an editorial in Global Times, a newspaper belonging to the Chinese Communist Party’s flagship, People’s Daily. The Soviet government, which collapsed in 1991, was able keep a lid on tensions between the western and eastern parts of Ukraine, the paper said, but independence opened up a Pandora’s box of ethnic and religious tensions, resulting in a stagnant economy and holding back foreign investment.
《环球时报》上一篇社论是这样忠告的，该报下属于中国共产党党报《人民日报》。《环球时报》称，1991年苏联政府解体前，曾能够控制乌克兰东西部之间的矛盾。但是乌克兰的独立打开了民族和宗教冲突的潘多拉盒子，导致经济停滞，并阻止了外国投资。
Ukraine, the country that supplied China with the hull of its first aircraft carrier — a product of its time as part of the Soviet Union — now has a per capita income only 60 percent of China’s, the paper said in its Chinese-language edition. Big countries like Ukraine, with 46 million people, it noted, often can’t overcome complex religious and ethnic divisions when confronted with rapid political change and, like the former Yugoslavia, descend into violent strife.
该报在其中文文章中称，中国第一艘航空母舰的船壳就是从乌克兰买的，那是乌克兰还属于苏联时制造的产品，现在乌克兰的人均GDP大致相当于中国的60%。这篇文章指出，像乌克兰这样有近4600万人口的大国往往很难克服面临快速政治转型时出现的宗教和民族分裂，会像前南斯拉夫那样，陷入暴力冲突。
For China, beset with its own ethnic and religious tensions in its western regions, including Tibet and Xinjiang, rapid democratization would lead to the same result. “There’s a high probability that the country will fall apart and many areas of the country will fall into unrest,’’ the editorial said. Democratization in China must proceed “step by step.’’
包括西藏和新疆在内的中国西部地区面临自己的民族和宗教问题，快速民主化将会导致同样的结局。这篇社论称，“国家四分五裂并且有很多地区陷入长期动荡的概率极高。”中国的民主进程必须“步步为营”。
Analyzing the breakup of the Soviet Union has become a cottage industry in China, and President Xi Jinping has made it clear that he will not be another Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the leader who presided over the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the fall of its Communist Party. In private meetings with Chinese Communist Party officials in December 2012, Mr. Xi said that China must heed its “deeply profound” lessons.
分析苏联解体的原因在中国已经成为家常便饭，国家主席习近平就曾明确表示，他不会当第二个米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S.Gorbachev)，苏联解体和共产党下台是在戈尔巴乔夫领导下发生的。在2012年12月的一次中国共产党官员的闭门会议上，习近平说中国必须吸取苏联的“深刻”教训。
“Why did the Soviet Union disintegrate? Why did the Soviet Communist Party collapse? An important reason was that their ideals and convictions wavered,” Mr. Xi told party officials in the southern province of Guangdong, according to a summary of his comments that circulated among officials. “In the end, nobody was a real man. Nobody came out to resist.”
习近平在广东省对共产党官员讲话的总结稿在一些官员中流传，他在讲话中说，“苏联为什么会解体？苏共为什么会垮台？一个重要原因是理想信念动摇了。最后，竟无一人是男儿，没什么人出来抗争。”
Political instability in Ukraine has not stopped Chinese companies from eyeing the country for investment. In December, the Ukrainian president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, meeting with Mr. Xi in Beijing, said the two countries were discussing $8 billion in Chinese investments in his country. A Chinese billionaire said he planned to invest $3 billion to build a port in Sevastopol, a city on the Black Sea.
乌克兰的政治动荡并未让中国公司停止关注乌克兰作为投资对象的可能性。去年12月乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)在北京与习近平会晤时说，中国和乌克兰正在就中国向该国投资80亿美元（约合486亿元人民币）一事进行谈判。一名中国富商称他计划在黑海城市塞瓦斯托波尔投资30亿美元修建一个港口。
Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry, told reporters Wednesday that China “feels regret’’ about the loss of life in the clashes in Ukraine. “China hopes that relevant parties in Ukraine could give priority to national interests, iron out differences through consultation and restore social order at an early date.’’
外交部发言人华春莹周三对记者说，中国对乌克兰的冲突造成了人员伤亡表示“遗憾”。“希望乌有关各方以国家利益和民族大义为重，通过协商对话消弭分歧，早日恢复社会正常秩序。”