Journalists at The Economist speak, half-jokingly, of a mythical, perfect sentence for the news and business weekly. It is some version of this:
《经济学人》(The Economist)的记者们半开玩笑地用一个假想的完美句子来形容这份新闻与商业周刊。以下是某个例子。
“Wrong.”
“错。”
That implies, said Chris Anderson, who worked there for seven years in the 1990s, and Bill Emmott, who edited it until 2006, that the conventional wisdom has been outlined in a preamble. It further assumes that the writer has the intellectual heft to dismiss it in a single word. And that the subsequent paragraphs will go on to outline a more astute, nuanced argument.
曾于1990年代在《经济学人》工作过七年的克里斯·安德森(Chris Anderson)和2006年之前一直在那里从事编辑工作的比尔·埃莫特(Bill Emmott)表示，这意味着开场白中概括的是普遍观点。它进一步假定，文章作者拥有足够的智慧，只用一个词就可以进行驳斥。随后的段落会继续阐述一个更加敏锐、微妙的论点。
Clive Crook, who was with the publication for 23 years until 2005, said he had heard another tongue-in-cheek characterization of The Economist’s style, “simplify, then exaggerate.”
2005年离职的克利韦·克鲁克(Clive Crook)为该杂志工作了23年。他说他听过另一种对《经济学人》风格的戏谑式描述，“先简化，再夸张。”
That distinctive voice, often featuring acerbic British understatement — a recent article described the alleged behavior of a British lord as “gadding about with prostitutes” — runs through The Economist’s blend of pithy news summaries, deeply reported analyses and quirky asides.
这种独特的风格通常带着尖酸的英式轻描淡写——最近有一篇文章形容英国一位勋爵的行为是“与妓女们厮混”，贯穿于《经济学人》精炼的新闻摘要、深入的分析报道及古怪的题外话之中。
Widely viewed as a magazine, it nevertheless calls itself a newspaper. It has no bylines. It has a dedicated following for its idiosyncratic photo captions (“You’re the Yuan that I want”). Its goal, outlined in a kind of mission statement on its website, is to “take part in a severe contest between intelligence, which presses forward, and an unworthy, timid ignorance obstructing our progress.”
尽管普遍被当做杂志，但《经济学人》仍自称报纸。它的文章没有署名。它独特的图片说明（如：“你就是我想要的钱”[You’re the Yuan that I want]）吸引了一批忠实的拥趸。关于目标，它的网站在描述宗旨时做出了概括，那就是：“在推动进步的智慧，与阻碍进步的胆怯无知进行殊死较量时，参与其中”。
Either because of or in spite of these eccentricities, The Economist, now poised for a change in ownership, occupies a widely envied position.
正是因为有这些怪癖，或者说尽管有这些怪癖，即将迎来所有权变更的《经济学人》，占据着令人艳羡的地位。
It has, perhaps fittingly for an unabashed supporter of free markets, been consistently profitable for decades. The Economist Group made about $93 million for the year that ended March 31, on revenue of more than $500 million, according to its annual report. Though it is privately held, the company releases its financial records each spring. The Economist’s circulation has increased to about 1.6 million in 2015 from around a million in 2006. It largely reaches the kind of affluent, educated people who travel to international conferences on private jets, and its many admirers include the former mayor of New York City, Michael R. Bloomberg.
数十年来，《经济学人》一直持续盈利。对坚定支持自由市场的它来说，这或许是应该的。其年报显示，在3月31日结束的财年，经济学人集团(The Economist Group)的收入超过5亿美元，盈利约9300万美元。尽管为私人所有，但该公司每年春天都会公布财报。《经济学人》的发行量已经从2006年的大约100万份，提高到了2015年的160万份。它触及的受众，在很大程度上是受过良好教育，会乘坐私人飞机参加国际会议的富裕人群。它的崇拜者众多，其中包括前纽约市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)。
Karl Marx, on the other hand, dismissed it as “the European organ of the aristocracy of finance.” The writer James Fallows described it as a purveyor of “smarty-pants English attitudes on our shores,” revered strictly as a fashion accessory for those who seek to appear erudite and worldly. The politics and culture writer Andrew Sullivan largely agreed. He called it “a kind of Reader’s Digest for the upper classes.”
另一方面，卡尔·马克思(Karl Marx)贬低它是“欧洲金融贵族的喉舌”。作家詹姆斯·法洛斯(James Fallows)形容它是在“向我们这个大陆兜售自作聪明的英格兰观点”，完全被那些努力显得博学又世故的人，当成了时尚配饰。关注政治和文化题材的作者安德鲁·沙利文(Andrew Sullivan)总体上同意这个观点。他把它叫做“一种面向上层阶级的《读者文摘》”。
The impending ownership change is unlikely to settle the debate. A 50 percent stake in The Economist Group, which includes CQ Roll Call, has been put up for sale by the education company Pearson, which recently sold The Financial Times to Nikkei of Japan as part of an effort to streamline its businesses. Pearson is negotiating, according to two people briefed on the matter, with the publication’s current shareholders — including Exor, the investment company controlled by the Agnelli family, which has declared its interest publicly.
即将到来的所有权变更不太可能解决相关争论。教育公司培生集团(Pearson)已经将经济学人集团50%的股份挂牌出售。CQ Roll Call即属于经济学人集团。为了精简业务，培生集团前不久将《金融时报》(The Financial Times)出售给了日本经济新闻社(Nikkei)。据两名熟悉情况的人士称，培生正在同《经济学人》现在的股东谈判，包括投资公司Exor。控制该公司的阿格内利(Agnelli)家族已公开表示，对这笔交易感兴趣。
Others who had coveted the publication, including Mr. Bloomberg, have not been mentioned as contenders, perhaps because the company has a complex trust system that essentially ensures it cannot be taken over by an owner keen to impose his or her whims.
没有消息显示垂涎该刊的其他人参与了角逐，这或许是因为该公司有复杂的信托机制。这一机制实质上确保了公司不会被热衷于强行施加自己意愿的老板接手。
The Economist Group has four kinds of shares: Ordinary ones, for employees, past employees and founding members of the company. “A” shares, held by illustrious names like the Cadburys, Rothschilds and Schroders. “B” shares, which represent about half, are the ones for sale. And trust shares, which control transfer of “A” and “B” shares, and are held by trustees — including the Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt — who are responsible for ensuring “the continued independence of the ownership of the company and the editorial independence of The Economist.”
经济学人集团有四种股份：雇员、前雇员和公司创始成员所持的普通股份；卡德伯里(Cadbury)家族、罗斯柴尔德家族(Rothschild)和施罗德家族(Schroder)等显赫股东持有的A类股份；约占一半的B类股份，也就是待售的那些股份；以及信托股份。信托股份控制着A类和B类股份的转让，由包括谷歌执行总裁埃里克·施密特(Eric Schmidt)在内的受托人持有。受托人的责任是确保“公司的所有权持续独立，以及《经济学人》的采编独立”。
It has, in other words, carefully shielded itself from the free market forces it so vociferously defends. (Mr. Emmott argued that the position was consistent, as The Economist has no objection to private companies managing themselves as they see fit.)
换句话说，这个制度小心翼翼地保护着《经济学人》，让它免受自己不遗余力为之辩护的自由市场力量的左右。（埃莫特声称，这样的立场并不矛盾，因为《经济学人》不反对私营企业以自认为合适的方式管理自己。）
The newspaper, founded in 1843, is put together in offices in the heart of London, a short stroll from the Ritz and a slightly longer walk from Buckingham Palace. The newsroom staff declined to move to Canary Wharf, a modern office development favored by financial firms, when its business staff did. Journalists usually either stay for a short period, and find The Economist is not for them, or for years, even decades, Mr. Crook said.
《经济学人》创立于1843年，办公地点位于伦敦市中心，离丽思酒店(Ritz)不远，步行去白金汉宫稍远一些。该报从事经营工作的员工，搬到了颇受金融企业青睐的现代办公区金丝雀码头(Canary Wharf)时，新闻采编人员拒绝搬迁。克鲁克称，《经济学人》的记者要么短暂地待一段时间后发现这里不适合，要么一待就是几年，甚至几十年。
Its culture, said Mr. Anderson, who went on to edit Wired magazine, is based on debate. During his tenure, every Monday morning the staff would gather in the editor’s office, to figure out, by means of argument, the leader articles that would form the backbone of the next issue. “It was the classic Oxford debating society style,” he said. “I’ve never seen more of an intellectual meritocracy. It was a classic example of sink or swim. How did people end up with The Economist voice? That’s it right there.”
后来在《连线》杂志(Wired)担任主编的安德森表示，《经济学人》的文化是建立在辩论的基础上的。在他担任编辑期间，每周一上午，员工都会聚集在主编办公室里，通过辩论的方式，确定下期社论的主干。“是牛津辩论协会的那种典型方式，”他说。“我从没见过更需要脑力的精英管理方式。人们为什么视《经济学人》的观点为最终结论？答案就在这里。”
It has also been shaped, said Mr. Crook, who rose to deputy editor, by the lack of bylines. “There is a genuine sense that we’re all in it together,” he said. Writers edit, and editors write, which makes each considerate of the other. And writers can contribute on unexpected subjects — a recent article, headlined “Girlfriend in a Conga,” focused on the popularity of the singer Morrissey in Mexico — because readers do not associate their names with one topic.
后来升任副主编的克鲁克说，不署名这一点也塑造了《经济学人》。“有一种真正的我们都融为了一体的感觉，”他说。写稿的人会进行编辑，编辑也会写稿，这会让双方相互体谅。而且作者也可以撰文讨论一些出人意料的话题，因为读者不会把他们的名字和某一个话题联系起来，比如最近一篇题为“跳康茄舞的女友”(Girlfriend in a Conga)的文章，就讲述了歌手莫里西(Morrissey)在墨西哥颇受欢迎的情形。
It appeals so widely, Mr. Emmott suggested, because it has responded to the spread of the English language, the end of the Cold War, the rise of China and other world economies, all multiplied by the effects of the Internet. It has become, he said “the house magazine of globalization.”
埃莫特表示，《经济学人》广受欢迎是因为它对英语言的传播、冷战的结束，以及中国和世界其他经济体的崛起，均做出了回应。而这些又都被互联网的影响放大了。他说，《经济学人》已经变成了“全球化时代的内行刊物”。