A day after The New York Times Company announced that it had dismissed Jill Abramson, The Times’s first female executive editor, it found itself mired in controversy, having to reassure employees and rebut reports that her removal was related to her complaints about receiving less pay than her male predecessors.
纽约时报公司宣布将该报历史上的首位女性主编吉尔·阿布拉姆松(Jill Abramson)免职后的一天，公司发现其陷入了争议，不得不安抚员工，并驳斥了她的解职涉及抱怨薪酬不及男性前任的报道。
In announcing Ms. Abramson’s departure on Wednesday, the company said she had been fired only because of management issues, but through Thursday, a strong counternarrative had emerged in the news media — including the “Morning Joe” show on MSNBC and The New Yorker — that Ms. Abramson had been a victim of sexism by being held to a different standard than male editors. The news even reverberated on Capitol Hill, where Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, used Ms. Abramson’s ouster to argue for equal pay legislation.
公司周三对外宣布阿布拉姆松离职，声明中称，解雇她的唯一的理由是管理问题。不过在周四，新闻媒体——包括MSNBC电视台的《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)节目和《纽约客》(The New Yorker)——出现了一种迥异的说法，认为阿布拉姆松是性别歧视的牺牲品，受到的待遇标准与男性编辑有别。这则消息甚至在国会山引发了反响：参议院多数党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)用阿布拉姆松被迫离职一事来主张进行同工同酬立法。
As the debate coalesced around the issue of gender, senior Times editors met with employees to reiterate the company’s rationale for dismissing Ms. Abramson: that the decision did not reflect sexism and was not about pay disparity, but about Ms. Abramson’s style of leadership.
随着这场辩论集中到性别话题，时报的高级编辑们展开了与员工的对话，重申公司免除阿布拉姆松职务的依据：这一决定并不反映性别歧视，也与薪酬差异无关，而是在于阿布拉姆松的领导风格。
Dean Baquet, who was promoted to replace Ms. Abramson, held a conference call with foreign correspondents and a meeting with the national desk to answer their questions about the change. The deputy managing editor for personnel issues, Janet Elder, called a meeting of senior female managers to solicit their feedback and also assure them that Ms. Abramson had received compensation comparable with her predecessors.
接替阿布拉姆松职位的迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)与国际新闻记者们召开了电话会议，并与美国新闻部的人员会面，回答关于这次变动的问题。负责人事的执行副主编珍妮特·埃尔德 (Janet Elder)主持召开了女性高管的会议，征集她们的反馈意见，并向她们保证，阿布拉姆松的薪酬与前任相当。
Alison Mitchell, the national editor, who attended the meeting, said it was not surprising that younger women in the newsroom would be upset. “Jill was an important figure,” she said. “It is important that a woman became the editor of The New York Times and she went out of her way to mentor younger women reporters.”
参会的美国新闻主编艾莉森·米切尔(Alison Mitchell)事后表示，编辑部较为年轻的女性有失望情绪，这一点并不令人惊讶。“吉尔是重要人物，”她说。“很重要的是，一名女性成为了《纽约时报》主编，而她会格外去指导年轻女记者。”
She added, “Those of us women in leadership positions right now need to do our job and reach out to other women.”
她还说，“我们这些身处领导层的女性，现在需要做好自己的工作，并且帮助其他女性。”
At midday Thursday, The Times’s publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., reached out to the entire newsroom, dismissing the notion that compensation had played a role in Ms. Abramson’s departure.
周四中午，《纽约时报》出版人小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)主动向整个编辑部作出说明，驳斥了报酬问题在阿布拉姆松遭解职一事上起到作用的做说。
Saying he wanted to correct “misinformation,” he wrote: “The reason — the only reason — for that decision was concerns I had about some aspects of Jill’s management of our newsroom, which I had previously made clear to her, both face-to-face and in my annual assessment.”
苏兹伯格称，他希望纠正“不实信息”，继而写道：“这一决定的原因——唯一的原因——是我对吉尔管理我们新闻编辑部的某些方面感到担忧。这一点我之前明确地告诉过她，包括面对面的交流，以及我进行的年度评估。”
The issue of pay rocketed around the Internet on Thursday after Ken Auletta of The New Yorker reported, in two articles, that Ms. Abramson had confronted management because she believed that her pay and her pension benefits were less than that of her predecessor, Bill Keller.
周四，薪酬问题在互联网上引发热议。因为《纽约客》的肯·奥莱塔(Ken Auletta)发表了两篇报道，称阿布拉姆松质询了管理层，她认为自己的薪酬与退休福利少于前任比尔·凯勒(Bill Keller)。
Mr. Auletta, who appeared on “Morning Joe” and “CBS This Morning” wrote: “This may have fed into the management’s narrative that she was ‘pushy,’ a characterization that, for many, has an inescapably gendered aspect.” Details about her compensation were attributed to two unnamed people, an associate and a friend of Ms. Abramson’s. It was not clear who had characterized her as pushy.
文中写道：“这有可能正好落入了管理层存在的她‘咄咄逼人’的说法。对很多人而言，这种定性无疑具有性别因素。”关于她薪酬的细节出自未具名的两个来源，分别是阿布拉姆松的熟人与朋友。尚不清楚究竟是谁称她“咄咄逼人”。后来，奥莱塔还在《早安，乔》与《CBS今晨》(CBS This Morning)节目中出镜。
In his letter to the staff, Mr. Sulzberger said: “Her pay is comparable to that of earlier executive editors. In fact, in 2013, her last full year in the role, her total compensation package was more than 10 percent higher than that of her predecessor, Bill Keller, in his last full year as executive editor, which was 2010. It was also higher than his total compensation in any previous year.”
在写给员工的信中，苏兹伯格称：“她的薪酬与以前的主编相当。实际上，2013年，也就是她全年担任主编的最后一年，她的总薪酬比前任比尔·凯勒全年担任主编的最后一年，即2010年，高出10%。这一金额同时高于他之前任何一年的总薪酬。”
In a phone interview, Mr. Auletta, who said he had not spoken to Ms. Abramson, said that his reporting showed that “in her mind, something bordered on unequal treatment for women” during her career as a senior editor and in the top job. He said he had been unable to verify with The Times the precise details of her compensation package, or those of her predecessors in various roles across the newsroom.
在电话采访中，表示并未与阿布拉姆松本人交谈的奥莱塔称，他的报道显示，“在她心中”，在担任高级编辑和主编的生涯里，“有些事情几乎就是对女性的不公对待”。他还表示，自己未能从《纽约时报》那里证实关于她，或是前几任，在担任编辑部多个职务时的薪酬的精确细节。
Within The Times newsroom, reporters and editors expressed a range of opinions over the role that gender played in her removal.
在时报的新闻编辑部里，围绕着性别在她遭解职一事中所起的作用，记者与编辑们表达了各种观点。
“I think traits that are perceived positively in men are perceived negatively in women: aggressiveness, decisiveness and even brusqueness,” said Patricia Cohen, a culture reporter who has been at The Times for 15 years. “Many male leaders in business have the same personality traits, and it doesn’t necessarily hurt them. But I certainly hope that gender did not play into this particular decision; I have faith in the institution of The Times.”
“我认为，在男人身上被认为正面的品质，到了女人身上就成了负面：进取、果断，乃至唐突，”在时报工作了15年的文化记者(Patricia Cohen)说。 “许多男性商界领导人拥有同样的个性，但并不一定会对他们造成伤害。不过，我当然希望，具体到这次的决定，性别没有起到作用。我对时报的原则有信心。”
Kate Zernike, a metro reporter who has been on staff for 14 years, said: “The rush to call this sexism is predictable, but unfortunate — and wrong. I think the truth, like it usually is, was more complicated. There are certainly gender issues at the paper, but I don’t think it’s right to see Jill’s departure as an expression of them.”
已为本报服务14年的都市新闻记者凯特·泽尼克(Kate Zernike)称：“匆匆将之称为性别歧视的做法可以预见到，但很不幸，也是错误的。我想，与往常一样，真相更为复杂。我们报纸当然存在一些性别问题，但我认为，并不应该把吉尔的离去看成这些问题的表现。”
Ann Marie Lipinski, the former editor of The Chicago Tribune and the curator of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard, said that the issue of sexism in newsrooms was complex and nuanced.
哈佛尼曼新闻基金会(Nieman Foundation for Journalism)的负责人安·玛丽·利平斯基(Ann Marie Lipinski)曾担任《芝加哥论坛报》(The Chicago Tribune)主编，她认为，新闻机构中的性别歧视问题复杂而微妙。
As with men leaving their jobs, she said, the stories are all individual. “Yet we have an ability to resupply that population,“ she said of male editors, “but have not been able to sustain any level of senior female leadership in newsrooms.”
她表示，男性离职的时候都各有各的故事。不过她说，在男性编辑方面，“我们有源源不断的人能补充进来，但我们没能在编辑部内维持住一定比例的女性高层领导力量。”
Adding to the tumult at The Times, a lengthy report on digital and other innovation at the company was leaked to the website BuzzFeed.
给这场风波又添一笔的是，时报公司的一份长篇报告泄露到了BuzzFeed网站上，主题为在数字化等领域的创新。
The report, prepared by A. G. Sulzberger, the publisher’s son, said The Times needed to accelerate its digital strategy, and suggested specific remedies for increasing reader engagement in the company’s journalism.
这份报告由出版人之子A·G·苏兹伯格(A. G. Sulzberger)负责起草。文中认为时报需要在数字化策略上加快步伐，并且给出了增加读者参与该报报道的一些具体措施。
Mr. Sulzberger, in announcing Ms. Abramson’s firing, said that the report had no part in his decision. And a shorter version of the report was released publicly. “We are extremely proud of this report,” said Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for The Times. “It is a candid assessment of our digital transformation with insightful recommendations, many of which we have embraced and are working to implement.”
在宣布解聘阿布拉姆松时，小阿瑟·苏兹伯格称，自己的决定与这份报告无关。它的较短版本随后公之于众。“我们对这份报告极为自豪，“时报女发言人艾琳·墨菲(Eileen Murphy)。“这是对数字化转型的坦率评估，给出了见解深刻的建议。其中许多建议我们已经采纳，并在努力实施。”
Ms. Abramson has not responded to repeated requests for comment over the last two days, but did surface on social media on Thursday. In an Instagram photo posted by her daughter, she stood before a punching bag, wearing workout gear and boxing gloves.
阿布拉姆松没有回复过去两天中反复提出的置评请求，不过，她周四在社交媒体中露了面。她女儿往Instagram上传了一张照片，显示她站在拳击吊袋前，身穿锻炼服，戴着拳击手套。
Late Thursday, the president of Brandeis University announced that Ms. Abramson would not be attending the school’s commencement exercises, where she was scheduled to receive an honorary degree. But she will deliver the commencement address at Wake Forest University on Monday, according to a release from the school.
周四晚，布兰迪斯大学(Brandeis University)校长宣布，阿布拉姆松将不会参加该校的毕业庆典。按照原本的计划，她将获得该校的荣誉学位。不过，根据维克森林大学(Wake Forest University)公布的声明，她将于下周一在该校进行毕业典礼演讲。