在为一个截稿日期而拖延时——我的意思是为本影评进行研究时——我在谷歌窗口中输入“网瘾真的存在吗？”我得到了2900万个结果，没有一个确定性的回答。有些专家认为吞噬时间的强迫性上网行为与典型的上瘾表现十分契合，而其他专家对此持怀疑态度。过了一会儿，我停止阅读，开始浏览Twitter上的更新，做了一两个测试，但是两个小时后，我还不愿承认自己有上网成瘾的问题。
“Web Junkie,” a new documentary by Shosh Shlam and Hilla Medalia, makes clear that the government of China is not interested in ambiguity or excuses. The filmmakers report that China is the first country to designate Internet addiction as a clinical disorder, and the film observes efforts to address it as both an individual affliction and a social problem. Shot almost entirely at Daxing Boot Camp, a center in Beijing that offers treatment to young addicts, most of them teenage boys, “Web Junkie” offers a troubling glimpse into anxieties that are hardly China’s alone.
《网瘾》是莎什·什拉姆(Shosh Shlam)和希拉·梅达利亚(Hilla Medalia)的新纪录片。它表明中国政府不喜欢模棱两可或借口。两位导演报道说，中国是第一个把网瘾认定为障碍性疾病的国家，这部电影记录了中国政府把它当成个人苦恼和社会问题进行的一些应对。《网瘾》几乎完全是在北京的大兴训练基地拍摄的，该基地为有网瘾的年轻人提供治疗，其中大多是十几岁的男孩。这部电影令人不安地稍微窥探了这些焦虑。而这些焦虑不是中国所独有的。
In some ways, Daxing resembles those controversial, privately run American rehabilitation facilities where desperate parents send unruly adolescents to be straightened out. Some of the boys report being tricked or drugged by their fathers and mothers after other measures failed. Once admitted, the patients — who are more apt to describe themselves as prisoners — are subjected to a blend of militaristic discipline, medication and therapy.
从某种程度上讲，大兴很像美国的那些有争议的私营康复机构，绝望的父母们把任性的青少年送到那里加以管束。据说有些父母在其他方法失败后把孩子骗到这里或者下药麻醉后送到这里。一旦被送进去，这些患者们——他们更愿意称自己为囚犯——将接受军事化训练、药物治疗和心理治疗。
The place is run by Dr. Tao, who wears a gold-braid-bedecked uniform and delivers scientifically questionable lectures with great authority. His methods include calisthenics, family discussion sessions and punitive stints in solitary confinement. Some of the episodes and conversations are glumly comical — as when a group of boys compares notes about marathon World of Warcraft binges — but most are sad and disturbing.
经营大兴训练基地的是陶博士，他穿着用金穗装饰的制服，非常威严地发表一些从科学角度值得怀疑的演讲。他的方法包括健美体操、家庭讨论和惩罚性的单独拘禁。有些桥段和对话显得阴郁可笑——比如一群男孩聊起马拉松式的一口气打《魔兽世界》的经历——但是大多数活动令人悲哀、不安。
The parents, who seem to be striving members of China’s new middle class, weep openly at their failure to control their sons. The sons are sullen, resigned and resentful, united above all in their hatred of life at the institute, which does look pretty grim. A few therapists, most of them women, provide islands of compassion amid all the in-formation drills and mandatory browbeatings. Though there do seem to be girls around, we never hear their stories or learn why they are there.
那些父母似乎是中国努力拼搏的新兴中产阶级。他们为自己没能管好儿子而当众啜泣。那些儿子们低落、顺从、愤懑，因为憎恶在这个机构里的生活而非常团结，这里的生活的确看起来相当残酷。几个心理医生——大多是女性——在所有这些操练和强制性恫吓中给他们提供了同情的小天地。虽然那里似乎也有女孩，但是我们不知道她们的故事，也不知道她们为什么在那里。
Does the treatment do the boys any good? Is their “disease” an acute problem in its own right or part of a more widespread dysfunction? In keeping with the modern dogma of documentary reticence, which emphasizes showing over explaining, “Web Junkie” refrains from trying to answer such questions.
这些治疗对男孩们有好处吗？他们的“疾病”是一种独立的急性病还是更大范围的功能失调的一部分？为了遵循纪录片保持沉默的现代教条——注重展示而非解释——《网瘾》克制着不去回答这些问题。