The New York Times announced on Monday that it would sponsor a fellowship in honor of David Carr, the media columnist and reporter who died this year.
《纽约时报》周一宣布将设立一项研究基金，以纪念今年离世的媒体专栏作家、记者戴维·卡尔(David Carr)。
The David Carr Fellow, The Times said, will “spend two years in the Times newsroom covering the intersection of technology, media and culture.” It is an opportunity, The Times said, “for a journalist early in his or her career to build upon Mr. Carr’s commitment to holding power accountable and telling engaging, deeply reported stories.”
时报称，戴维·卡尔研究员(David Carr Fellow)“将在时报编辑部工作两年，负责报道科技、媒体和文化的融合”。时报称，这是一个机会，“让处于职业生涯早期的记者可以继承卡尔的遗愿，向当权者问责，写作引人入胜的深度报道”。
The thinking behind the fellowship, said Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, “was that we needed a more permanent, lasting way to honor David.”
时报主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)表示，设立这项研究基金的缘起是“我们需要一种更固定、持久的方式来纪念戴维”。
Mr. Carr, he said, was an important figure inside and outside the Times newsroom — a source of inspiration to those who had struggled with substance abuse, as Mr. Carr had, and to young journalists.
他说，不管是在时报编辑部内部还是其他地方，卡尔都是一个重要人物。他鼓舞着和他一样曾与药物滥用斗争的人，鼓舞着年轻记者。
Mr. Carr’s “Media Equation” column had developed a large following, and he was viewed by many in the industry as a kind of journalistic compass. He was the breakout star of a 2011 documentary about The Times, “Page One,” in which his personal style, recognizable to virtually all at The Times — a blend of insight and scathing wit — became more widely known.
卡尔的专栏“媒体方程式”(Media Equation)形成了一个巨大的读者群，他本人也被很多业内人士当做一种新闻指南针。2011年的一部关于时报的纪录片《头版》(Page One)，让卡尔一夜之间成为明星。他那全体时报同仁都十分熟悉的个人风格——一种洞察力和犀利言语的混合体——开始更多地为外人所知。
For the fellowship, Mr. Baquet said, The Times will be looking for candidates who share his interests, and his openness to new ways of telling stories, “and also people who maybe have an unusual background. David Carr was a recovering drug addict who came to us from the alternative news media world. That’s very unusual for The New York Times.”
巴奎称，针对该研究基金，时报要寻找的候选人要和卡尔有相同的兴趣，和他一样乐于接受新的写作方式，“另外也许会有不同寻常的经历。戴维·卡尔摆脱了毒瘾，在加入我们之前曾在非主流新闻媒体界工作。这对《纽约时报》来说是很不寻常的。”
The fellowship, he said, represents a chance for the newspaper to bring in those who have worked at other outlets, to share their experiences of what he described as “a storytelling revolution” across the industry.
他说，这项基金意味着时报有机会引进在其他机构工作过的人，他们可以分享自己在这场被他称为席卷全行业的“讲故事革命”中的经验。
“A lot of it is going on in the New York Times newsroom, a lot of it in other newsrooms, and a lot of it hasn’t happened yet,” Mr. Baquet said. “There’s a new merger of multimedia, great writing, video, even the possibility of 3-D stuff, that is going to transform the way stories are told.”
“《纽约时报》的编辑部和其他编辑部都在发生很多变化，但还有很多变化尚未发生，”巴奎说。“有一种新的融合，结合了多媒体、优秀的写作、视频甚至可能还有3D技术，这会改变讲故事的方式。”
Mr. Carr died, at 58, after collapsing in the Times newsroom in February. The cause was later revealed to be complications arising from lung cancer. Two months later, he was cited as a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for commentary.
今年2月，58岁的卡尔在时报编辑部晕倒。后来公布的死因是肺癌引起的并发症。两个月后，他入围了普利策奖最佳评论的角逐。