When the biggest political story of the year reached a dramatic and unexpected climax late Tuesday night, our newsroom turned on a dime and did what it has done for nearly two years — cover the 2016 election with agility and creativity.
当今年最重大的政治事件在周二晚间迎来戏剧化和预料之外的高潮，我们的新闻室也迅速作出应对，并做了近两年来一直在做的事——敏捷并有创意地报道2016年的这场选举。
After such an erratic and unpredictable election there are inevitable questions: Did Donald Trump’s sheer unconventionality lead us and other news outlets to underestimate his support among American voters? What forces and strains in America drove this divisive election and outcome? Most important, how will a president who remains a largely enigmatic figure actually govern when he takes office?
在这场古怪而难以预料的选举过后，无可避免地产生了一些问题：特朗普完全不循常规的风格和行为，是不是造成我们和其他媒体低估了美国选民对他的支持？在美国，是什么力量与压力推动了这场充满分裂的选举，促成了选举的结果？最重要的是，当一个难以捉摸的大人物成为总统后，他将如何治理国家？
As we reflect on the momentous result, and the months of reporting and polling that preceded it, we aim to rededicate ourselves to the fundamental mission of Times journalism. That is to report America and the world honestly, without fear or favor, striving always to understand and reflect all political perspectives and life experiences in the stories that we bring to you. It is also to hold power to account, impartially and unflinchingly. You can rely on The New York Times to bring the same fairness, the same level of scrutiny, the same independence to our coverage of the new president and his team.
当我们反思这个重大的结果，以及之前几个月来对此事的报道和民调的同时，我们希望再次承诺我们对时报新闻的基本使命。我们会诚实地报道美国和世界新闻，不畏惧、不偏向，在所有为读者呈现的报道中，始终力求理解和反映所有的政治视角和生活体验。这也意味着对权力开展问责，公正持平，坚定无畏。读者可以信赖《纽约时报》会用一贯地公平、一贯地深入调查和一贯地独立，去报道新总统与他的团队。
We cannot deliver the independent, original journalism for which we are known without the loyalty of our readers. We want to take this opportunity, on behalf of all Times journalists, to thank you for that loyalty.
没有读者的忠实支持，我们无法完成那些我们赖以闻名的独立、原创新闻报道。我们要借此机会，代表全体时报新闻工作者，对您忠实的支持表示感谢。
Sincerely,
您诚挚的
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., publisher
出版人小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)
Dean Baquet, executive editor
主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)