And here we thought that George Clooney was this era’s Cary Grant even if, with his squinty smile and no-sweat insouciance, he’s really closer to Clark Gable. As it turns out, Mr. Clooney seems to have been harboring a desire to tap into his inner Gregory Peck — noble, stolid, dull — as he does in “The Monuments Men,” which he both directed and stars in. It was Peck who led the team of World War II Allied saboteurs in “The Guns of Navarone,” one of those men-on-a-mission movies, a subgenre that includes everything from “The Dirty Dozen” to the “Ocean’s Eleven” trilogy, which starred Mr. Clooney in a fizzier, less sanctimonious mode.
我们曾经认为，乔治·克鲁尼(George Clooney)是当今的加里·格兰特(Cary Grant)，虽然他一笑起来眼睛眯成缝的样子和轻松的漫不经心更像克拉克·盖博(Clark Gable)。但事实表明，克鲁尼似乎在努力挖掘他内心的格利高里·派克(Gregory Peck)——高贵、含蓄、阴郁——就像他在自导、自演的《盟军夺宝队》(The Monuments Men)中那样。在《纳瓦隆的枪声》(The Guns of Navarone)中带领“二战”盟军突击队的是派克。《纳瓦隆的枪声》属于那类“一群男人完成一个使命”的电影，这个子类别包括的电影很多，比如《十二金刚》(The Dirty Dozen)和《十一罗汉》(Ocean’s Eleven)三部曲——克鲁尼在这个三部曲中的表演更生动，没那么道貌岸然。
Now it’s Mr. Clooney’s turn as Frank Stokes, an art historian and the story’s hub, to lead a charmingly quirky crew in a World War II operation to rescue Europe’s artistic treasures from the Nazis. Stokes is the man for the job: He enters wrapped in a professorial air, wearing spectacles and a salt-and-pepper beard while lecturing President Franklin D. Roosevelt on the dangers posed to “the greatest historical achievements known to man.” These would be the artworks that the Nazis began systematically to steal — by emptying museums and confiscating work owned by Jewish collectors — soon after Hitler, that famously failed painter and lover of kitsch, took power.
现在轮到克鲁尼来领导一次“二战”行动中的一个讨人喜欢又古怪的团队，他们从纳粹手中挽救欧洲的艺术瑰宝。克鲁尼扮演的是艺术史专家、这个故事的中心人物弗兰克·斯托克斯(Frank Stokes)。斯托克斯最适合这份工作：他一出场浑身就散发着一种专业气息——戴着眼镜，留着花白胡子——正在给富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)总统讲述“人类所知的最伟大的历史成就”面临的危险。他指的是希特勒——那个著名的不成功画家和媚俗的爱好者——上台后很快开始通过洗劫博物馆和没收犹太人的收藏有组织地盗窃艺术品。
Written by Mr. Clooney and his producing partner, Grant Heslov, “The Monuments Men” slices off a sliver of a great World War II story and turns it into a lightweight entertainment that doesn’t ask you to think too hard. The story’s real-life heroes were a group of curators, restorers, archivists and the like who served in the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives Section, an Allied effort to protect Europe’s cultural heritage. Nicknamed the Monuments Men, this group eventually included 350 or so men and women from 13 countries who were with the unit from 1943 to 1951. Its exploits have been related in various books, including “The Monuments Men: Allied Heroes, Nazi Thieves, and the Greatest Treasure Hunt in History,” written by Robert M. Edsel, with Bret Witter.
克鲁尼和他的联合制片人格兰特·哈斯洛夫(Grant Heslov)合写了《盟军夺宝队》，从一个伟大的“二战”故事中选取了一个小片段，把它变成了一个不需要你深思的轻松的娱乐片。这个故事现实中的主人公是一群博物馆馆长、艺术品修复专家和档案保管员，他们为“古迹、艺术品和档案部”工作，这个部门是盟军为保护欧洲的文化遗产而设立的。他们被称为古迹卫士，包括来自13个国家的大约350个人，他们从1943年到1951年为该部门服务。很多书记载了他们的功绩，包括罗伯特·M·埃德塞尔(Robert M. Edsel)和布雷特·维特(Bret Witter)合写的《古迹卫士：盟军英雄，纳粹小偷和史上最伟大的寻宝行动》(The Monuments Men: Allied Heroes, Nazi Thieves, and the Greatest Treasure Hunt in History)。
Based on Mr. Edsel’s book, the film whittles the Monuments Men story down to a handful of ideal types, including Stokes, who’s based on George Leslie Stout, a conservator at the Fogg Museum at Harvard. It’s Stokes who rounds up the team members, each of whom is introduced in a short, snappy, comic scene doing what he does best: Matt Damon plays James Granger, a museum man first seen touching up a ceiling (prompting a Michelangelo joke); John Goodman, as a sculptor, Walter Garfield, enters hacking away at a hunk of stone like a John Henry Rodin. Bob Balaban, seen leading a rehearsal, plays Preston Savitz, an effete fussbudget who, I was surprised to learn, was “inspired by” Lincoln Kirstein who, among his many accomplishments, helped found the New York City Ballet.
这部电影以埃德塞尔的书为基础，把古迹卫士的故事削减为几个理想化的人物。斯托克斯的原型是乔治·莱斯利·斯托特(George Leslie Stout)，他是哈佛大学福格博物馆的一名管理员，是他把团队成员召集到一起的。每个成员出场时都有一个短小、轻快、有趣的场景，展示各自最擅长的工作：马特·达蒙(Matt Damon)扮演博物馆员工詹姆斯·格兰格(James Granger)，他出场时正在修葺一个天花板（暗示一个关于米开朗基罗的笑话）；约翰·古德曼(John Goodman)扮演雕塑家沃尔特·加菲尔德(Walter Garfield)，他出场时正在像约翰·亨利·罗丹(John Henry Rodin)那样砍削一块大石头；鲍勃·巴拉班(Bob Balaban)出场时正在指挥一场排演，他扮演的是普勒斯顿·萨维茨(Preston Savitz)——一个虚弱的吹毛求疵的人。我深感意外地得知，他的“灵感来源”居然是林肯·柯尔斯坦(Lincoln Kirstein)，此人的众多成就之一是帮助成立了纽约市芭蕾舞团。
Mr. Balaban is adorable in that Bob Balaban way, somewhat elfin, and dry as Melba toast. He smiles through jokes and some physical comedy done at his expense, largely from Bill Murray, whose character, Richard Campbell, is a composite of several real Monuments Men including an architect, Robert Kelley Posey. (Mr. Murray plays “Bill Murray” just fine.) A captain, Posey served with Gen. George S. Patton and the Third Army, and was teamed up with Kirstein, a private first class also with the Third. Mr. Edsel describes Posey and Kirstein as an odd couple but brilliantly paired. Mr. Clooney literalizes the Felix and Oscar shtick and turns Savitz and Campbell into sweet, sentimentalized funnymen who all but bumble into their historic moment. There’s nothing brilliant about them.
巴拉班的那种表演惹人喜爱——有点淘气，也像梅尔巴吐司一样枯燥。别人拿他开玩笑或者模仿他的动作时他总是一笑而过，取笑他的主要是比尔·默里(Bill Murray)，他扮演的是理查德·坎贝尔(Richard Campbell)。这个人物是现实中的几个古迹卫士的组合，包括建筑师罗伯特·凯利·波西（Robert Kelley Posey，默里扮演“比尔·默里”挺好的）。波西同时也是陆军上尉，为乔治·S·巴顿将军(Gen. George S. Patton)的第三军团效力，和同为第三军团一等兵的柯尔斯坦是搭档。埃德塞尔把波西和柯尔斯坦描述为一对古怪却非常般配的搭档。克鲁尼利用菲利克斯(Felix)和奥斯卡(Oscar)的滑稽场面，把萨维茨和坎贝尔变成了可爱、伤感的滑稽演员，他们在关键时刻差点搞砸。反正笨手笨脚的。
That’s too bad, because if there’s anyone who you expect to smarten up a joint, it’s Mr. Clooney. The brain trust behind the original Monuments Men was staggering and included individuals who helped run some of America’s greatest cultural institutions. At the very least you expect their fictional counterparts to exchange a little shoptalk and some thoughts on art, literature and the latest restoration techniques or maybe just gossip about Picasso’s latest mistress. Kirstein brought George Balanchine to America (together they founded City Ballet and the School of American Ballet); was friends with the architect Philip Johnson; and was involved in the planning of Lincoln Center. Surely he did more than coo like a baby about the crackers in his care package, as Savitz does.
那太糟糕了，因为这部低俗喜剧片中唯一显得睿智的只有克鲁尼。真实的盟军夺宝队的智囊团是令人震惊的，其中包括帮助经营美国最伟大的文化机构的一些人物。至少你会期待与他们对应的虚构人物能说一些行业术语，交流一些关于艺术、文学和最新修复技术的想法，哪怕只是八卦一下毕加索的新情妇。柯尔斯坦把乔治·巴兰钦（George Balanchine，他们一起创立了纽约市芭蕾舞团和美国芭蕾舞学校）带到了美国；他们是建筑师菲利普·约翰逊(Philip Johnson)的朋友；他们参与筹建了林肯中心。他显然不像萨维茨那样，跟孩子似地对补给包里的饼干嘀嘀咕咕，他的功绩要大得多。
Mr. Clooney doesn’t just simplify the characters; he also turns them into pleasantly innocuous caricatures that at times edge into cartoons. Despite a passing reference to John Wayne — and what feels like a hopeful invocation of Wayne’s later work with Howard Hawks — the characters are less “El Dorado” types and more like Cutie (Mr. Damon), Goofy (Mr. Murray), Starchy (Mr. Balaban), Boozy (Hugh Bonneville as Donald Jeffries), Frenchy (Jean Dujardin as Jean Claude Clermont) and Jewish Guy (Dimitri Leonidas as Sam Epstein). Cate Blanchett isn’t quite Snow White, but her French frump, Claire Simone, enjoys a princess-at-the ball moment. (The character is a take on Rose Valland, a French museum employee turned Resistance spy who kept records of what the Nazis pilfered.)
克鲁尼不只是简化了这些人物，还把他们变成了快乐的、无伤大雅的漫画人物，有时甚至有点像卡通人物。尽管本片让人短暂地想起了约翰·韦恩(John Wayne)——感觉像是韦恩后期与霍华德·霍克斯(Howard Hawks)合作的影片——但是这些人物不太像《龙虎盟》(El Dorado)里的人，而更像“七个小矮人”：小可爱（达蒙）、小傻瓜（默里）、小呆子（巴拉班）、小酒鬼（休·博纳维尔[Hugh Bonneville]扮演唐纳德·杰弗里斯[Donald Jeffries]）、法国佬（让·杜雅尔丁[Jean Dujardin]扮演让·克劳德·克莱蒙特[Jean Claude Clermont]）和犹太人（迪米特里·列奥尼达斯[Dimitri Leonidas]扮演山姆·爱泼斯坦[Sam Epstein]）。凯特·布兰切特(Cate Blanchett)算不上白雪公主，但是她扮演的邋遢的法国人克莱尔·西莫内(Claire Simone)的确有过灰姑娘在舞会上的光辉一刻（这个人物是以罗斯·瓦兰德[Rose Valland]为原型，她本来是一位法国博物馆员工，后来变成了秘密抵抗运动的间谍，记录下了纳粹偷走的东西）。
It can be nice to spend time with these actors even when you don’t believe their characters for a single second, and there’s no denying this movie’s easy pleasures, including the guaranteed satisfaction that comes in watching, yet again, the Nazis go down in defeat. Yet because Mr. Clooney can’t figure out what kind of story this is, he too often slips into pandering mode, including in his own performance, which is filled with too many smiles and speeches. He also gives himself the worst scene in the film: an encounter with a captured German, Colonel Wegner (Holger Handtke), who being an official villain — he’s a Nazi, kills in cold blood and has thin lips — says something awful about Jews. Don’t worry. Mr. Clooney’s character sets that guy straight because, you know, somebody has to.
如果你觉得这些人物一点都不真实，那和这些演员们共度一段时光也挺好的。谁也不否认这部电影能带来轻松的快乐，比如看着纳粹被打败保证能让你获得满足感。但是因为克鲁尼没有弄清楚这是个什么样的故事，他太过频繁地迎合观众，包括他自己的表演，微笑太多、说话太多。他还给了自己本片中最糟糕的一场戏：与被俘的德国人、韦格纳上校（霍尔格·汉德克[Holger Handtke]饰）对质。韦格纳是个公认的恶棍：他是纳粹，杀人不眨眼，言辞恶毒——他说了一些关于犹太人的很难听的话。别担心。克鲁尼扮演的角色把那家伙制服了，因为，你知道，总得有人把他制服。