Richard Attenborough, who after a distinguished stage and film acting career in Britain reinvented himself to become the internationally admired director of the monumental “Gandhi” and other films, died on Sunday. He was 90.
理查德·阿滕伯勒(Richard Attenborough)在英国拥有杰出的舞台与电影表演事业，之后凭不朽的《甘地传》(Gandhi)和其他影片成为享誉国际的导演。他于周日逝世，享年90岁。
His death was confirmed by his son, Michael, according to the BBC.
根据BBC报道，他的儿子迈克尔(Michael)确认了死讯。
Until the early 1960s, Mr. Attenborough was a familiar actor in Britain but little known in the United States. In London he was the original detective in Agatha Christie’s play “The Mousetrap.” On the British screen, he made an early mark as the sociopath Pinkie Brown in an adaptation of Graham Greene’s “Brighton Rock” (1947).
在20世纪60年代初，阿滕伯勒是英国家喻户晓的演员，在美国却罕有人知。在伦敦舞台上，他曾在阿加莎·克里斯蒂 (Agatha Christie)的话剧《捕鼠器》(The Mousetrap)中最早饰演那位侦探。在英国电影界，他以1947年《布赖顿硬糖》(Brighton Rock)中反社会的平基·布朗(Pinkie Brown)一角早早成名，该片改编自格雷厄姆·格林(Graham Greene)的小说。
Hollywood Breakthrough
挺进好莱坞
But it was not until he appeared with his friend Steve McQueen and a sterling ensemble cast in the 1963 war film “The Great Escape,” his first Hollywood feature, that he found a trans-Atlantic audience. His role, as a British officer masterminding an escape plan from a German prisoner-of-war camp, was integral to one of the most revered and enjoyable of all World War II films.
1963年，他与朋友史蒂夫·麦奎因(Steve McQueen)以及一个优秀的演员班底出演了战争片《大逃亡》(The Great Escape)，这是他首次在好莱坞亮相，从此才在大西洋彼岸赢得了观众。《大逃亡》是最受好评、最精彩的“二战”影片之一，他的角色是一个在德国战俘营内策划逃亡计划的英国军官，是该片不可缺少的一环。
That performance established him in Hollywood and paved the way for a series of highly visible roles. He was the alcoholic navigator alongside James Stewart’s pilot in “The Flight of the Phoenix” (1965), a survival story about a plane crash in the desert. He won back-to-back Golden Globe Awards for best supporting actor: first in “The Sand Pebbles” (1966), also starring McQueen, set during China’s civil war in the 1920s, and then in the whimsical “Doctor Dolittle” (1967), playing Albert Blossom, a circus owner, alongside Rex Harrison as the veterinarian who talks to animals. In “The Chess Players” (1977), by the renowned Indian director Satyajit Ray, he was a British general in 19th-century India.
这部影片让他在好莱坞站稳了脚跟，也为他带来了一系列重要角色。1965年的《凤凰劫》(The Flight of the Phoenix)是关于一架在沙漠坠毁的飞机如何求生的故事，他在其中饰演酗酒的飞机领航员，与詹姆斯·斯图尔特(James Stewart)饰演的机师并肩作战。之后他连获两届金球奖最佳男配角荣誉，先是1966年的《圣保罗炮舰》(The Sand Pebbles)，该片故事发生在20世纪20年代中国内战期间，也由麦奎因主演；之后是1967年怪诞的《杜立德医生》(Doctor Dolittle)，他在其中饰演马戏团班主阿尔伯特·布罗萨姆(Albert Blossom)，雷克斯·哈里森(Rex Harrison)饰演的主角是一个能和动物交谈的兽医。1977年的影片《下棋者》(The Chess Players)由著名印度导演萨蒂亚吉特·雷伊(Satyajit Ray)执导，他在其中饰演一个19世纪驻印度的英国将军。
Years later Mr. Attenborough became known to a new generation of filmgoers as the wealthy head of a genetic engineering company whose cloned dinosaurs run amok in Steven Spielberg’s box office hit “Jurassic Park.”
几年后，阿滕伯勒在斯蒂芬·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)的票房大片《侏罗纪公园》(Jurassic Park)中出演富有的基因工程公司总裁，他的克隆恐龙最后变成了杀人狂。这个角色为他在新一代电影观众中赢得了知名度。
But for most of Mr. Attenborough’s later career, his acting was sporadic while he devoted much of his time to directing.
但是阿滕伯勒事业生涯的后期主要是担任导演，只是偶尔才出演角色。
Directing a Classic
执导经典
“Gandhi” (1982), an epic but intimate biographical film, was his greatest triumph.
他最伟大的作品是1982年的《甘地传》(Gandhi)，这是一部史诗片，同时也是一部温馨的传记片。
With the little-known Ben Kingsley in the title role, the film traces Mohandas K. Gandhi’s life as an Indian lawyer who forsakes his job and possessions and takes up a walking staff to lead his oppressed country’s fight for independence from Britain through a campaign of passive resistance, ending in his assassination.
影片追溯了莫罕达斯·K·甘地(Mohandas K. Gandhi)的生平，他是一位印度律师，放弃了工作和财产，拄起一支手杖，领导这个国家的消极抵抗斗争，最终从英国独立，他自己则死于暗杀。主角甘地由名不见经传的本·金斯利(Ben Kingsley)饰演。
Among the film’s critics were historians, who said it contributed to mythmaking, portraying Gandhi as a humble man who brought down an empire without acknowledging that the British, exhausted by World War II, were eager to unload their Indian possessions. Nevertheless, “Gandhi” was nominated for 11 Academy Awards and won eight, including best picture, best director, best cinematography, best original screenplay and best actor (Mr. Kingsley).
历史学家们批评这部影片促成了造神运动，它把甘地塑造成一个一手推翻整个帝国的谦卑人物，全不顾史实是当时英国已被“二战”消耗殆尽，急于摆脱印度这个负担。不管怎样，《甘地传》获得11项奥斯卡金像奖提名，最终赢得其中8项，包括最佳影片、最佳导演、最佳摄影、最佳原创剧本和最佳男演员（本·金斯利）。
The film had 430 speaking parts and used over 300,000 extras for Gandhi’s funeral. No one expected it to recoup its $22 million cost, but it wound up earning 20 times that amount.
该片有台词的角色共计430个，仅甘地的葬礼一幕就动用了30万个临时演员。该片耗资2200万美元，没有人想得到这笔钱能赚回来，但最终盈利是这笔钱的20倍。
By then Mr. Attenborough had embraced the role of director, or “actor-manager,” as he called himself. (He said he understood actors and could help them give confident, truthful performances.) His first foray into directing was “Oh! What a Lovely War” (1969), an offbeat satirical musical about World War I with an all-star cast including Laurence Olivier, Maggie Smith, John Gielgud and Vanessa Redgrave.
当时阿滕伯勒已经习惯了导演这个角色，或者是他自称的“演员-经理”。他说自己理解演员们，能帮他们带来自信、真实的表演。他初次涉足导演是在1969年的《多可爱的战争》(Oh! What a Lovely War)，这是一部关于“一战”的另类讽刺音乐剧，由包括劳伦斯·奥利弗(Laurence Olivier)、麦琪·史密斯(Maggie Smith)、约翰·吉尔古德(John Gielgud)和凡妮莎·莱德格雷夫(Vanessa Redgrave)在内的全明星班底出演。
In 1972 there was “Young Winston,” starring Simon Ward, about Churchill’s early years. In 1977 there was “A Bridge Too Far,” a cautionary World War II epic about a disastrous Allied defeat, which also fielded a starry cast: Olivier, Robert Redford, Sean Connery, Gene Hackman, Michael Caine and others.
1972年，他执导了《战争与冒险》(Young Winston)，讲述丘吉尔的早期岁月，由西蒙·沃德(Simon Ward)主演。1977 年，他执导了《遥远的桥》(A Bridge Too Far)，这是一部关于“二战”中盟军灾难性溃败的警世史诗，演员阵容中亦包括了奥利弗、罗伯特·莱德福特(Robert Redford)、肖恩·康纳利(Sean Connery)、吉恩·哈克曼(Gene Hackman)、迈克尔·凯恩(Michael Caine)等诸多明星。
After “Gandhi” came a 1985 adaptation of “A Chorus Line,” Michael Bennett’s musical about Broadway hoofers. It was a misfire — a faithful but uneasy translation to film. Mr. Attenborough had more success with “Cry Freedom!” (1987), a stirring look at the friendship between the antiapartheid fighter Steve Biko (Denzel Washington) and a journalist (Kevin Kline) in South Africa in the 1970s.
继《甘地传》之后，1985年，他执导了《歌舞线上》 (A Chorus Line)，它改编自迈克尔·本奈特(Michael Bennett)的音乐剧，讲述百老汇职业舞蹈演员的故事。这是一个失败之作，电影的改编虽然忠实，却不流畅。1987年，他的《哭喊自由》要更成功一些，故事发生在20世纪70年代的南非，讲述反种族隔离斗士斯蒂夫·毕柯（Steve Biko，丹泽尔·华盛顿[Denzel Washington]饰）与一位新闻记者（凯文·克莱恩[Kevin Kline]）之间的友谊，非常激动人心。
Five years later, after a hiatus from directing, Mr. Attenborough returned with what was largely considered to be his biggest flop: “Chaplin,” a long, sprawling biography of the silent film star Charlie Chaplin. Despite an admired and Oscar-nominated performance by Robert Downey Jr. in the title role and a potent mix of drama and slapstick humor, “Chaplin” did poorly at the box office. Like many of Mr. Attenborough’s movies, the story of Chaplin, the lowly born clown who defied the odds by achieving world renown, celebrated courage and endeavor. It was also an article of faith for him that his films told clear stories and said something significant to wide audiences. “All my work questions the establishment, authority, intolerance and prejudice,” he said.
之后阿滕伯勒中断了导演生涯，5年后又带着《卓别林》 (Chaplin)归来，它是默片明星查理·卓别林(Charlie Chaplin)的传记影片，冗长、杂乱，很多人认为这是阿滕伯勒最大的失败。虽然片中小罗伯特·唐尼(Robert Downey Jr.)精彩地演绎了卓别林这个角色，还因此获得了奥斯卡提名，而且情节和闹剧式幽默的融合也颇具说服力，但《卓别林》的票房还是惨遭失败。卓别林原本是出身低微的丑角，他反抗命运，获得了国际声誉，和阿滕伯勒执导的许多电影一样，卓别林的故事是对勇气与奋斗的歌颂。他所信奉的信条是，影片要讲述清晰的故事，并试图对广大观众说出某些重要的东西；“我的所有作品都质疑当权者、权威、不宽容与不公正，”他说。
‘Champagne Socialist’
“阔佬社会主义者”
Yet his life was entwined with the establishment. He was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1967. He was knighted in 1976, made a baron in 1993 and given a seat in the House of Lords. He was variously chairman of the British Film Institute, Channel Four Television, Capital Radio and the British Academy of Film and Television Arts and president of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts.
然而他的生活却与当权者密不可分。1967年，他获得了大英帝国司令勋章，1967年获封爵士，1993年被封为男爵，并获得上议院席位。他曾担任英国电影学院、第四频道电视公司、首都电台、英国电影电视艺术学会等多种机构的主席，以及皇家戏剧艺术学院的院长。
Richard Samuel Attenborough was born in Cambridge on Aug. 29, 1923, the eldest son of Frederick Attenborough, an Anglo-Saxon scholar who became the principal of University College, Leicester, and his wife, Mary, a writer who crusaded for women’s rights and took in Basque and German refugees. The Attenboroughs adopted two Jewish sisters who had arrived in Britain from Berlin in September 1939, too late for them to be sent safely to relatives in New York.
理查德·萨缪尔·阿滕伯勒(Richard Samuel Attenborough)于1923年8月29日生于剑桥，是家中的长子。父亲弗里德里克·阿滕伯勒(Frederick Attenborough)是一位盎格鲁-萨克森学者，后来成了莱斯特的大学学院的院长；他的母亲玛丽是一位作家，极力主张妇女权利，曾收留巴斯克与德国难民。阿滕伯勒夫妇收养了两个1939年从柏林逃到英国的犹太女孩，当时她们已经来不及被安全地送往纽约的亲戚家中。