To Michael Wilkinson, the costume designer for “American Hustle,” “the choices that people make when they dress themselves and the messages that they give out to the world, both consciously and unconsciously, these things matter deeply to me. I have a passion and a fascination for the way people present themselves.”
在《美国骗局》(American Hustle)的服装设计师迈克尔·威尔金森(Michael Wilkinson)看来，“人们有意无意的服装选择，以及他们透过服装传递给世人的信息对我来说很重要。我对人们的着装方式有浓厚的兴趣，特别着迷。”
Presenting the film’s con artists, politicians and operators to the world had its challenges. As implied by the title of the David O. Russell movie, the characters, loosely inspired by the 1970s Abscam scandal, are continually reinventing themselves to get what they want. “We wanted the actors to use their costumes as a part of their hustle,” Mr. Wilkinson said. “They dress as the person they aspire to be. Characters playing characters.”
把这部电影中的冒牌艺术家、政治家和经营者展示给世人具有一定的挑战性。大卫·O·拉塞尔(David O. Russell)这部电影受到20世纪70年代公职人员收受贿赂丑闻的某些启发。就像影片名字暗示的那样，片中的人物在不断变换身份，以攫取他们想要的东西。“我们想让演员们把服装用作骗局的一部分，”威尔金森说，“他们想变成谁，就穿成那个人的样子。这些角色在扮演新的角色。”
That meant a glamorous assemblage of plunging necklines, fur, gowns, gold chains and velvet suits, so precisely fit that they look painted on, particularly when viewed from the back. In these looks, Mr. Russell’s cast of favorites — Christian Bale, Amy Adams, Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper — sparkle. Even with a protruding belly and ridiculous comb-over, Mr. Bale manages to come off as sexy.
那意味着有很多迷人的低胸连衣裙、皮草、礼服、金链子和天鹅绒西服，这些衣服如此贴合身体，看起来像是画上去的，特别是从后面看的时候。拉塞尔最喜欢的演员克里斯蒂安·贝尔(Christian Bale)、艾米·亚当斯(Amy Adams)、詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)和布莱德利·库珀(Bradley Cooper)穿上这些服装后光彩照人。尽管有突出的小腹和滑稽的comb-overs式发型（用侧面的长发缕盖住头皮以遮掩秃头的发型——译注），贝尔仍看起来很性感。
The charm of con artists or the magic of double-knit polyester?
这到底是冒牌艺术家的魅力还是双面针织涤纶的魔力？
“We used the period as a springboard, but at a certain point we cut ourselves loose and worked intuitively,” Mr. Wilkinson said. “David’s characters live large, impassioned lives. They’re wildly imaginative. So I wanted their clothes to be equally imaginative.”
“我们把那个时代当成跳板，但是从某种意义上讲我们很自由，凭直觉行事，”威尔金森说，“大卫影片中的人物过着自由自在、充满激情的生活。他们有疯狂的想象力。所以我想让他们的服装也具有同样疯狂的想象力。”
Mr. Wilkinson, whose credits include “300,” “Man of Steel” and “Watchmen,” took some time during a trip to his hometown of Sydney, Australia, to discuss his “American Hustle” inspirations, including Playboy and Vogue, Jerry Hall and Hugh Hefner, and the “sensory glory” of fabrics in the late ’70s. Here are edited excerpts from the email conversation: 
威尔金森的杰出作品包括《斯巴达300勇士》(300)、《超人：钢铁之躯》(Man of Steel)和《守望者》(Watchmen)。他在回故乡澳大利亚悉尼的途中谈论了《美国骗局》的灵感来源，包括《花花公子》(Playboy)和《Vogue》杂志，杰瑞·霍尔(Jerry Hall)和休·海夫纳(Hugh Hefner)，以及70年代末的面料的“感性光彩”。下面是我们电子邮件访谈的剪辑节选。
Highbrow and lowbrow sources: “We looked at endless photographs of ‘real’ people from the period, mostly hard-hitting social documentary from photographers like Allan Tannenbaum. But we wanted to cast the net wide to cover the full spectrum so we also looked at lowbrow magazines and advertising, everything from mail-order catalogs to covers of Cosmopolitan to Playboy shoots to Helmet Newton’s Vogue editorials. Many people were inspirational: Jerry Hall, Bianca Jagger and Faye Dunaway for Amy Adams’s character, Sydney Prosser, and Serge Gainsbourg and Hugh Hefner for Christian Bale’s character, Irving Rosenfeld. And we watched every film set in New York and New Jersey in the late 1970s. ‘Atlantic City’ and ‘Goodfellas’ were favorites.”
高雅和低俗的来源：“我们看了无数张那个时代‘真实’人物的照片，大部分来自艾伦·坦能鲍姆(Allan Tannenbaum)等摄影师拍摄的有影响力的社会纪录片。但是我们想把网撒大点，全面了解情况，所以我们也看了一些低俗的杂志和广告，从邮购商品目录到《Cosmopolitan》的封面，从《花花公子》上的照片到赫尔梅特·牛顿(Helmet Newton)在《Vogue》上的评论。我们受到了很多人的启发：我们在设计艾米·亚当斯的角色西德妮·普罗塞(Sydney Prosser)的服装时受到了杰瑞·霍尔、比安卡·贾格尔(Bianca Jagger)和菲·唐纳薇(Faye Dunaway)的启发；在设计克里斯蒂安·贝尔的角色欧文·罗森菲尔德(Irving Rosenfeld)的服装时受到了瑟奇·甘斯布(Serge Gainsbourg)和休·海夫纳的启发。我们还看了所有把背景设定在70年代末的纽约和新泽西的电影。《大西洋城》(Atlantic City)和《好家伙》(Goodfellas)是我们最爱。”
Earth tones were out: “I really enjoyed collaborating with our cinematographer, Linus Sandgren, and our production designer, Judy Becker. We talked a lot about colors and textures, about wanting to avoid the endless browns and earth tones of the ’70s, about introducing vivid pops of accent colors and steely metallic tones to conjure the decade’s transition towards the early ’80s. We really wanted our world to be pulsing with life, to capture the grit, the sweat and the edgy mood of the period.”
褐土色过时啦：“我真的很喜欢跟我们的电影摄影师莱纳斯·桑德格伦(Linus Sandgren)以及制片设计师朱迪·贝克(Judy Becker)合作。我们花了很长时间讨论颜色和质地，我们不想要70年代没完没了的褐色和褐土色，想加入鲜艳的重点色和钢铁质感的金属色调，以反映向80年代初的过渡。我们真的想让我们的电影充满活力，能够捕捉到那个时代的勇气、汗水，以及焦躁的情绪。”
Not just polyester: “Part of my strategy of deepening the audience’s sense of the period was to really explore the fabrics, to go way beyond the cliché of polyester and double knits, and present the full spectrum of textural choices in all their sensory glory: velvets, silks and furs play just as important a role as the synthetics in capturing this world. For example, Bradley Cooper’s [F.B.I.] character, Richie DiMaso, starts the film in ill-fitting polyester suits and nylon shirts but shifts to soft leather jackets, three-piece wool suits and silk shirts when the sophisticated world of Sydney and Irving is opened up to him.”
不只是涤纶：“为了加深观众对那个时代的感觉，我的策略之一是研究各种面料，超越陈腐的涤纶和双面针织面料，充分展示所有面料的感性光彩：天鹅绒、丝绸和皮草在展现那个时代的风采方面与合成纤维发挥着同样重要的作用。比如，布拉德利·库珀扮演的里奇·迪马索（Richie DiMaso，一位美国联邦调查局探员）一开始穿的是不合身的涤纶西服和尼龙衬衣，后来在他进入西德妮和欧文的精致世界之后，他的服装变成了软皮夹克、三件套毛料西服和丝绸衬衣。”
Animal natures: “I was drawn to fur because for me it’s such a strong signifier of the mood of the period. To a modern politically correct audience, nothing creates a sense of lushness, a whiff of taboo, a raw sensuality as strongly as fur. The characters in this film are all certainly in touch with their raw animal nature! All the furs are vintage pieces sourced from collectors in New York, Boston and Los Angeles. All of the accessories were vintage as well, from collectors across the country. I especially love Richie’s period aviators and his gold medallions that are nestled so perfectly in his chest hair.”
动物性：“我选皮草是因为在我看来皮草是那个时代的情绪的重要指针。对政治立场正确的现代观众来说，没什么比皮草更能营造奢靡的感觉，更具有禁忌和纵欲的感觉。这部影片中的人物无疑都带着点原始的动物性！所有的皮草都是从纽约、波士顿和洛杉矶的收藏者那里找来的古董。所有的配饰也都是古董，来自美国各地的收藏者。我特别喜欢里奇扮演的那个时代的飞行员，他的金色勋章和他的胸毛如此般配。”
A case for cleavage: “American women at that time were enjoying new freedoms in fashion: less underpinnings, less structure and bold, streamlined shapes. I wanted to reflect the sense that Sydney was constantly treading the fine line between supreme confidence and fragile vulnerability. With her low-cut, body-hugging costumes, she is going out on a limb, with very little between her and the world. I mixed high-end vintage designer pieces — Halston, Gucci, Diane Von Furstenberg, Christian Dior, Ossie Clark — and custom costumes for her, and combined strong, dramatic lines with soft, sensual fabrics.”
乳沟：“当时的美国女人正在享受服装带来的新自由：更少内衣，更少支撑，还有大胆、流线形的裁剪。我想表现出西德妮不断在超级自信和极端脆弱之间徘徊的感觉。她穿低胸紧身服装实际上是在冒险，孤立无援地面对世界。我把高端的古董设计师作品——侯司顿(Halston)、古驰(Gucci)、黛安·冯·芙丝汀宝(Diane Von Furstenberg)、克里斯汀·迪奥(Christian Dior)和奥西·克拉克(Ossie Clark)——与为她量身定制的服装结合起来，把强悍、引人注目的线条与柔软、性感的面料结合起来。”
Picking his favorites: “When you’re working with David, things are organic and constantly developing, so we created extensive closets for each character so that we were ready for anything. Amy and Christian ended up having about 40 changes each. I try to be a good parent and love all my costume creations equally, but if I was forced to admit it, I’m especially proud of Irving’s silk ascots and velvet suits; Sydney’s gunmetal sequin dress and the pale apricot Halston blouse; [Jennifer Lawrence's] halter-neck leopard-print chiffon jumpsuit and the rhinestone straps on the back of her white metallic gown; the pale spearmint suit of Mayor Carmine Polito [played by Jeremy Renner]; and Richie’s ivory silk shirt from Studio 54.”
他的最爱：“你和大卫一起工作时，事情在不断变化，不断发展，所以我们为每个人物准备了很多服装，这样不管发生什么，我们都有准备。最后艾米和克里斯蒂安大概各有40套服装。我尽力想做个好父亲，给予每套服装同等的爱，但是如果我必须承认的话，我特别喜欢欧文的丝绸领带和天鹅绒西服；西德妮的青铜色亮片连衣裙和淡黄色侯司顿上衣；（詹妮弗·劳伦斯的）颈背系带豹纹雪纺绸连衣裤和白金属色晚装的水钻背带；卡迈恩·波利托市长（Mayor Carmine Polito，杰瑞米·雷纳[Jeremy Renner]饰）的淡绿色西服；以及里奇来自54俱乐部(Studio 54)的象牙色丝绸衬衫。”
The mayor and his wife: “With Polito, my goal was to portray a charismatic local politician, a man who epitomizes the bravado of the Italian New Jersey working-class of the ’70s. We developed a signature style for him, with pastel-colored polyester suits, bold ties and an immaculate pompadour hairstyle. I wanted him to have a shining look that would inspire his community and help him stand out in the grime of his environment. His wife, Dolly [Elisabeth Rohm], is a vivacious and gregarious woman with a love of bold prints and has her own take on classic European style.”
市长和他的妻子：“对波利托，我的目标是描绘一个具有超凡魅力的地方政客，让他集中体现70年代新泽西州意大利裔工人阶层的虚张声势。我们给他设计了一种标志性的风格，穿着粉色涤纶西服，戴着大胆的领带，留着无可挑剔的高卷式发型。我想让他拥有闪亮的外表，能够鼓舞社区居民，让他在周围脏乱的环境中脱颖而出。他的妻子多莉（Dolly，伊丽莎白·罗姆[Elisabeth Rohm]饰）是个爱社交的活泼的女人，特别喜欢大胆的印花，她的服装是欧洲古典风格。”
Next up: “I have been given the opportunity to tackle a wide range of genres with my work: big superheroes, gritty contemporary, epic period, science fiction. It keeps me stimulated and challenged as an artist. At the moment, I’m designing the costumes for ‘Batman vs. Superman.’ It’s an honor to be creating new looks for such iconic characters as Wonder Woman. The interesting thing is that my approach is always the same, no matter the genre or the period. I’m using the same tools — silhouette, fabric, color, drape – to help tell the story and illuminate the inner life of the characters.”
下一步：“我在工作中有机会涉及各种体裁：超级英雄大片，逼真的当代片，史诗片，科幻片。这让我像艺术家一样不断受到刺激和挑战。目前我在为《蝙蝠侠大战超人》(Batman vs. Superman)设计服装。能为神奇女侠(Wonder Woman)这样的标志性人物设计新形象是一种荣幸。有趣的是，不管什么体裁，不管哪个年代的故事，我的设计方法都是一样的。我采用相同的手段——剪裁，面料，色彩和褶皱——来帮助讲述这个故事，阐明人物的内心生活。”