“After a very long wait, Chinese films have finally burst forth magnificently again in the world’s film festivals, with fireworks,” the state news agency Xinhua wrote. The proud statement was a play on the Chinese title for “Black Coal, Thin Ice,” the gritty detective movie by Diao Yinan that took the top award at the just-concluded 64th Berlin International Film Festival: “Fireworks in Daylight.”
“经历了漫长等待，中国电影终于又在世界电影节上绽放绚丽‘焰火’，”国家通讯社新华社在报道中这样写道。这个充满自豪的句子诙谐地用了电影《白日焰火》的片名，这部由刁亦男导演的活生生的侦探片，在刚刚闭幕的第64届柏林国际电影节上获得头奖。
The Xinhua verdict reflected a widespread desire in China for global recognition of the country’s artistic achievements, and in private and public the successes are being celebrated. But the edgy Chinese films that swept the Berlinale, winning several major awards and widespread critical acclaim, challenge censorship at home and highlight a dilemma: What succeeds internationally is often controversial back in China, where the censor’s cuts are deep and delays long and cinematic fare is heavy on formulaic historical dramas with much fighting and hints of bodice-ripping.
新华社的评论反映了中国希望其艺术成就得到国际认可的广泛渴望，这些成就在国内受到私下和公开的庆祝。但是，这些横扫柏林电影节、囊括了几项主要大奖并受到评论者普遍好评的中国前卫影片，却给国内的审查者带来挑战，突显了这样一种窘境：在国际上成功的影片常常在国内有争议，国内审查机构需要对之做颇多的删节，影片的上映要推迟很久，而国内上映的片子多是些有很多打斗场面和色情暗示的程式化的历史剧。
So amid the joy, some commentators advised caution. “This shouldn’t be read by the outside world as a success for Chinese films, producing a rounded sense of collective excitement and self-satisfaction that then passes. Everyone knows what Chinese films are really like,” wrote one commentator, Grandpa Film Critic Anye Jishi, on weibo, China’s version of Twitter.
因此在人们一片欢腾的同时，一些评论者提出忠告。一位名为影评老大爷暗夜骑士的评论者在微博上写道，“但非要被外界解读为中国电影的成功，由此完成一次集体亢奋和自我安慰就过了。中国电影到底怎样，大家都清楚。”微博是中国版的Twitter。
Mr. Diao’s Golden Bear-winning “Black Coal, Thin Ice” features an overweight, alcoholic ex-cop (in China, police officers are not supposed to be portrayed negatively) and a series of horrific murders, and the movie is set in the small towns of the grimy north, where coal is king and a politically sensitive issue for its corruption, pollution and workplace hazards.
刁亦男获得金熊奖的电影《白日焰火》讲述的是一个体重过重、酗酒成性的前警察（在中国，警察一般不能被负面刻画）和一系列恐怖杀人案的故事，故事发生的地点是尘土飞扬的北方小镇，煤炭是那里的主要燃料，也是制造腐败、污染和工作场所隐患的政治敏感问题。
Mr. Diao deliberately eschewed the big-city glamor of Beijing or Shanghai, saying in an interview in the official festival notes about the film that he was seeking to portray the lives of ordinary Chinese people. “There are many places in China that have the innately surreal quality I needed,” he said.
刁亦男故意避开北京或上海这些大城市的喧嚣，他在电影节对该片的官方介绍材料引用的采访中说，他试图描述的是普通中国人的生活。他说，“中国有很多地方都有我需要的这种天生的超现实主义。”
In one scene, a severed hand is carried along a conveyor belt of coal. Nonchalant discussion of death follows. A coal worker has been murdered and parts of his body turn up hundreds of kilometers apart. Two police officers are killed as investigators move to apprehend suspects. Years later, Zhang Zili, a former police officer wounded in the botched arrest who now works as a factory security guard, revisits the crime. He is determined to solve it but becomes romantically attached to a woman who he discovers had been in a relationship with the first victim and with others, uncovered later. “One bitterly cold night, he has an epiphany. Nothing is as it seemed, and he is in serious danger,” reads a synopsis by the executive production company Omnijoi, based in China. Liao Fan, who plays the former police officer, won the Silver Bear for best actor.
影片中有一只被砍断的手在运煤传送带上的场面。接下来是人们漠不关心地讨论死亡。一个采煤工人被杀害了，他的尸体的被分割，尸块出现在几百公里以外的地方。在调查者试图逮捕嫌疑人时，又有两名警察被杀。几年后，在那次失败的抓捕行动中受伤、已在一家工厂当保安的前警察张自力，重温了该谋杀案。他决心要破那起案子，但却和一位女人陷入情网，他发现该女子与第一名被害人有关系，后来又发现，她与其他被害人也有关系。中国的幸福蓝海影视有限公司在影片简介中介绍道，“在一个寒冷的夜晚，他突然顿悟。一切都不是看上去的样子，他身处重重危险之中。”扮演前任警察的廖凡获得最佳演员银熊奖。
Shen Yang, the co-producer of “Black Coal, Thin Ice” who was attending the festival in Berlin, told Xinhua: “Like a surgical operation, it dissects people’s characters, showing the emotional condition of contemporary Chinese people.”Another Chinese film won a Silver Bear — “Blind Massage,” directed by Lou Ye — for outstanding artistic contribution for cinematography. Mr. Lou’s 2006 film, “Summer Palace,” which deals with the 1989 democracy movement, caused him to be banned from filmmaking in China for five years.
《白日焰火》联合制片人沈暘出席了这次柏林电影节，他告诉新华社，“这部影片像外科手术一样解剖人性，呈现出当代中国人的精神状态。” 由娄烨导演的《推拿》获得柏林电影节最佳艺术贡献（摄影）奖。娄烨因为2006年导演的电影《颐和园》涉及1989年学潮而导致他在中国被禁止拍片5年。
“No Man’s Land,” by the Chinese director Ning Hao, had been a front-runner in Berlin until the last minute. The film, a surreal road movie featuring an immoral society, progressively broken-down vehicles and falcons, was blocked from release for four years by Chinese censors who deemed it nihilistic.
中国导演宁浩的《无人区》在柏林电影节上一直呼声很高，但未获奖。这部超现实的公路电影讲述的是一个堕落的社会，越来越破的车辆和隼，这部电影被中国审查机构认为是虚无主义，推迟了4年才允许上映。
In the interview with Mr. Diao, he explained his vision, playing on the difference between the film’s English- and Chinese-language titles — “Black Coal, Thin Ice” and “Fireworks in Daylight.” It could be a metaphor for the differing realities of uncensored and censored China.
刁亦男在接受采访时用这部影片的英文名字“Black Coal, Thin Ice”（黑炭薄冰）与中文名字《白日焰火》的差异诙谐地解释说，这可以是被审查的和未被审查的中国不同现实的比喻。
“Coal and ice are real,” he said. “Fireworks in daylight are surreal.”
他说，“煤与冰是现实的；而白日焰火是梦幻的。”
Calling daytime fireworks a “kind of fantasy,” he said, “it’s the kind of catharsis that people use to shield themselves from the harsher aspects of the world around them. In using this title, I’m obviously suggesting that Chinese people today are in dire need of that kind of catharsis.”
他说，白日焰火是“一种幻想，这是人们用以抵御现实世界较残酷一面而采用的一种宣泄方式。我用这个名字，显然是为了暗示现在的人们十分需要这种宣泄。”
“What I’m trying to get at here is our ability to make moral choices. I’m calling for people to be prepared to take decisive actions. When they do that, they’re making choices — rather than blindly following orders and failing to question what they’re told,” he said.
“影片想要暗示的是我们做出道德选择的能力。我是在呼吁人们要做好采取果断行动的准备。当他们在行动时，他们是在做选择——而不是一味地盲从命令，不去质疑他们得到的指令，”他说。
“All of my characters wander on the border between living and dreaming. Their lives are precarious. You could say they cheat their way into life. I sympathize with them greatly,” he said.
“我的所有人物都游离在现实与梦幻的边界上。他们没有稳固的生活；甚至可以说他们是投机取巧地苟活着。我很同情他们，”他说。