I HAVE been here less than a month, but already I’ve discovered something that surely must be bad for business if your business is running The New York Times. It comes via the inbox to the public editor, from people like Gary Taustine of Manhattan, who writes: “The NY Times is alienating its independent and open-minded readers, and in doing so, limiting the reach of their message and its possible influence.”
我来这里还不到一个月，但是已经发现了一种肯定不利于生意的情况——如果你的生意是经营《纽约时报》的话。我是通过公众编辑的收件箱发现这个问题的，发信者包括曼哈顿的加里·陶斯汀(Gary Taustine)，他写道：“《纽约时报》正在疏远那些思想独立、开放的读者，因此限制了它的信息覆盖面和潜在影响力。”
One reader from California who asked not to be named believes Times reporters and editors are trying to sway public opinion toward their own beliefs. “I never thought I’d see the day when I, as a liberal, would start getting so frustrated with the one-sided reporting that I would start hopping over to the Fox News webpage to read an article and get the rest of the story that the NYT refused to publish,” she says.
加利福尼亚州一位要求匿名的读者认为，时报记者和编辑试图说服公众去认同他们自己的观点。“我从未想过作为自由派的我，有一天会为片面报道感到如此失望，以至于我开始跳到福克斯新闻(Fox News)的网页，阅读《纽约时报》不愿报道的那部分内容，”她说。
Here’s frustration as it crests, from James, an Arizona reader: “You’ve lost a subscriber because of your relentless bias against Trump — and I’m not even a Republican.”
这种失望情绪最极端地体现在亚利桑那州(Arizona)读者詹姆斯(James)身上。他说：“因为你们对特朗普没完没了的偏见，你们已失去我这位订阅者——我甚至不是共和党的。”
You can imagine what the letters from actual conservatives sound like.
你可以想像一下真正的保守派写来的信会是什么样的。
Emails like these stream into this office every day. A perception that The Times is biased prompts some of the most frequent complaints from readers. Only they arrive so frequently, and have for so long, that the objections no longer land with much heft.
类似的电子邮件每天不断涌入这间办公室。认为时报存在偏见是来自读者最为常见的抱怨。只不过，因为总收到这样的邮件，而且已经持续了很长时间，所以这样的异议已经让人麻木了。
Like the tiresome bore at a party, I went around asking several journalists in the newsroom about these claims that The Times sways to the left. Mostly I was met with a roll of the eyes. All sides hate us, they said. We’re tough on everyone. That’s nothing new here.
我就像派对上令人讨厌的家伙那样，询问新闻编辑部的几位记者如何看待认为时报左倾的指责。大多数时候，我得到的回应是白眼。他们说：哪派都恨我们。我们对谁都苛刻。这在这里都不是新鲜事。
That response may be tempting, but unless the strategy is to become The New Republic gone daily, this perception by many readers strikes me as poison. A paper whose journalism appeals to only half the country has a dangerously severed public mission. And a news organization trying to survive off revenue from readers shouldn’t erase American conservatives from its list of prospects.
那样的回答可能很吸引人，但是除非你的策略是成为每日发行的《新共和》(The New Republic)杂志，不然很多读者的这种感觉对我的打击很大。如果一份报纸的新闻只能吸引一半的国人，那么它很难实现自己的公共使命。一个努力依靠来自读者的收入维持生存的新闻组织，不应该把美国保守派从潜在客户清单上抹去。
No one here would tell me the ideological breakdown of The Times’s total audience or subscriber base, numbers that are considered proprietary. I know only that there is unease in at least a few offices about whether The Times feels sufficiently relevant to a broad slice of readers.
这里不会有人告诉我时报全部读者或订阅用户的意识形态情况，这些数据被认为不能公开。我只知道，至少有几个部门对于时报是否面向足够广大的读者群是存在不安的。
Why is it that conservatives, and even many moderates, see in The Times a blue-state worldview? Let’s set aside for now the core of their criticism — that the coverage is in fact biased. I’ll be turning to that as I settle into the job. My focus here is only on the perceptions. Because while one might debate the substance of the claims, the building blocks that created them are in plain sight.
为什么保守派，甚至很多的温和派，在时报上看到了民主党的世界观？让我们暂时把他们批评的核心，也就是报道在事实上有失公允，放到一边。等我适应这份工作之后再讨论这个问题。我现在只讲观点方面的问题。因为虽然观点可能会引起争议，但是形成观点的素材却清晰可见。
The home page is a good place to start. Anchoring its top right corner is the Opinion section, which promotes the columns and editorials of its mostly liberal writers. “Readers know the difference between opinion and news,” you’ll often hear. I’m not so sure all do, especially when the website makes neighbors of the two and social platforms make them nearly impossible to tease apart.
网站首页是开始讨论的好地方。右上角是观点与评论区，这里推的主要是自由派作者的专栏和社论。“读者们知道观点和新闻的不同，”你经常听到这句话。但我并不确定所有的读者都知道它们的不同，尤其是当网站把这两者放在一起时，而且社交平台几乎不可能把它们区分开。
Maybe we’re well past worrying about that. So turn to the drumbeat of Hillary Clinton campaign ads on the website. Even for me, who fully knows an ad from a news story, seeing Clinton’s smiling face when I’ve come to read the news can be rather jarring.
也许我们早就不再担心这个问题了。那就说说网站上希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选广告吧。即便对我这样一位深知广告和新闻故事的区别的人来说，来看新闻时看见克林顿的笑脸也会觉得刺眼。
How about all the reader comments attached to political articles? On most days, conservatives occupy just a few back-row seats in this giant liberal echo chamber, not because Republicans are screened out by editors but because they don’t show up in the first place. Bassey Etim, who oversees the comments forum, makes a point of salting conservative voices into the week’s list of top commenters. “It just makes the conversation more dynamic and interesting,” he says.
政治文章下面的那些读者评论呢？在大部分日子里，在这个巨大的自由派回音室里，保守派仅占据后排的几个位置，不是因为共和党被编辑给屏蔽了，而是因为他们根本就不出现。负责监管评论的巴锡·埃蒂姆(Bassey Etim)注重把保守派的声音加到一周最热评论的名单上。“它会让对话更有活力，更有趣，”他说。
For some print readers, the placement of an editorial calling for gun control on the front page last December, which garnered a record number of comments, was shrill proof of the kind of Times bias they expect. There was a torrent of debate over the appropriateness of its placement.
对某些纸质版读者来说，去年12月把呼吁枪支管控的社论放到头版上是他们能料到的那种时报偏见的犀利证明。那篇文章收到了前所未有的大量评论。关于它的放置位置是否合适出现了激烈争论。
I asked Dean Baquet, the executive editor, about the perception of liberal bias that hangs over his newsroom, whether from the gun editorial, the Clinton ads, or the actual work of his journalists. He doesn’t believe that the coverage on most days has a liberal cast, nor does he think campaign ads or the rare front-page editorial create that perception.
我询问执行主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)所谓编辑部带有自由主义偏见的看法——不管是关于枪支管控的社论、克林顿的广告，还是记者们的实际工作。他认为大部分时候报道并不具有自由主义倾向，也不认为竞选广告或偶尔出现的头版社论会造成那种印象。
But he does want The Times’s reach to be wide. “We have to be really careful that people feel like they can see themselves in The New York Times,” he said. “I want us to be perceived as fair and honest to the world, not just a segment of it. It’s a really difficult goal. Do we pull it off all the time? No.”
不过，他的确希望时报的读者面更广。“我们必须非常注意做到让读者觉得能在《纽约时报》看到自己，”他说。“我希望我们被认为是公正诚实的，而不只是做到了一部分。这个目标实现起来很难。我们有没有时刻做到这一点？并没有。”
I agree with Baquet: It isn’t easy. But it’s not hard to imagine some small steps on a longer journey — leaving editorials on the editorial page, banning campaign ads from the home page, or building a better mix of values into the ranks of the newsroom’s urban progressives.
我同意巴奎的观点：这不容易。不过，漫长的旅程可以始于简单的几小步——把社论留在社论版；不要让竞选广告出现在首页上；把更多样化的价值观带入新闻编辑部的城市进步派阵营中。
That last one might even help reporting between the country’s coastlines, where the trust level can be gaping. Mark Leibovich, a veteran political writer on the magazine staff whose job entails talking to voters across the spectrum, believes The Times’s coverage is generally balanced. But the perception that it isn’t complicates his job. “It’s becoming a much more menacing factor,” he said. “You get hit with complaints that we’re biased pretty much whenever you go out, especially at a Republican rally.”
最后这一点甚至能帮助平衡在美国东西两岸之间的报道——两岸对时报的信任度差距很大。时报杂志的资深政治执笔人马克·莱博维奇(Mark Leibovich)在工作中必须和支持不同政客的选民交流，他认为时报的报道总体来讲是平衡的。不过，有些读者认为时报不公正这一点让他的工作变得更为复杂。“它正变成一个更具威胁性的因素，”他说。“不管走到哪儿，我都会收到关于我们存有偏见的投诉，尤其是在共和党的集会上。”
WHAT’S happening at The Times isn’t only about The Times. It’s part of a fracturing media environment that reflects a fractured country. That in turn leads liberals and conservatives toward separate news sources. A Pew Research Center survey two years ago found that liberals are flocking to The Times, with 65 percent of its readers possessing political values that were left of center.
在时报所发生的事情，不是仅仅与时报有关。它是支离破碎的媒体环境的一部分，反映出这个国家的支离破碎。结果，自由派和保守派分别倒向各自的新闻来源。两年前，皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的一项调查发现，自由派涌向时报，时报65%的读者持中间偏左的政治立场。
Does that mean The Times should write off conservatives and make a hard play for the left and perhaps center left? I hope that question is not on the table. It would change everything about what the paper is and the force of its journalism.
那是否意味着，时报应该放弃保守派，努力为左派或中左派服务？我希望这个问题不要提上议程。它会彻底改变这份报纸的本质和它的新闻力量。
Imagine what would be missed by journalists who felt no pressing need to see the world through others’ eyes. Imagine the stories they might miss, like the groundswell of isolation that propelled a candidate like Donald Trump to his party’s nomination. Imagine a country where the greatest, most powerful newsroom in the free world was viewed not as a voice that speaks to all but as one that has taken sides.
想像一下，如果记者不觉得有透过他人视角看待这个世界的迫切需要，那么他们会漏掉什么。想像一下他们可能会漏掉的故事，比如孤立的浪潮把一个像唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)这样的候选人推到了共和党候选人的位置上。想像一下自由世界里最伟大、最有力的新闻编辑部不被看做是一个面向所有人的声音，而被看作是一个持有立场的声音。
Or has that already happened?
还是这些已经发生了？