Easter is still weeks away, but pet stores may find that the added demand for rabbits the holiday brings will come early this year thanks to the irresistible “Zootopia,” an animated movie with an intrepid bunny named Judy Hopps at its core. Her fox sidekick, Nick Wilde, is mighty enjoyable, too.
复活节还有几个星期才会到来，但是在宠物店里，今年对节日兔子的需求来得格外早，都是由于魅力无穷的动画电影《疯狂动物城》(Zootopia)，影片主角是一只勇敢的兔子，名叫朱迪·霍普斯(Judy Hopps)。她的狐狸搭档尼克·王尔德(Nick Wilde)也非常可爱。
This film, action-packed and filled with enough savvy jokes that adults should consider slipping into the theater even if they don’t have an accompanying child, is set in a world where animals have transcended the carnivore-and-prey dichotomy and now live together more or less harmoniously.
这部电影充满动作情节，有不少聪明的笑话，就算不用陪伴孩子，成年人也不妨溜进影院一观。它发生在一个动物超越了捕食对立，可以和平相处的世界。
Judy (the voice of Ginnifer Goodwin of “Once Upon a Time”), a country bunny, wants to become the first rabbit police officer in the bustling metropolis of Zootopia, but her parents are not exactly the follow-your-dreams type.
朱迪由《童话镇》(Once Upon a Time)里的金妮弗·古德温(Ginnifer Goodwin)配音，她是一只来自乡村的兔子，想成为疯狂动物城大都会里的第一个兔警官，但她的父母并不是支持子女梦想的类型。
“If you don’t try anything new, you’ll never fail,” her father (Don Lake) tells her. It’s a gag that encapsulates one of the best things about this film: It trusts young viewers to recognize the clichés they’ve been fed by other animated movies over the years and to appreciate seeing them subverted.
“如果你不尝试新鲜事物，就永远不会失败，”她的父亲（唐·雷克[Don Lake]配音）告诉她。这句话可以概括整部影片最精彩的部分：它让年轻观众回想起，多年来他们在其他动画片里听到的陈词滥调，并且开始从颠覆的角度看待它们。
Judy graduates from the police academy and ends up on the force in Zootopia, but her boss (Idris Elba) relegates her to parking-ticket duty while more experienced officers investigate 14 missing-mammal cases. While obsessively writing tickets, Judy meets Nick (Jason Bateman), a world-weary hustler who slowly becomes her friend and adviser as she pokes her nose into the missing-mammal epidemic despite her boss’s resistance.
朱迪从警官学校毕业后，来到疯狂动物城服役，但她的上司（伊德里斯·艾尔巴[Idris Elba]配音）派她去开停车罚单，更有经验的警官们择取调查14只哺乳动物失踪案。朱迪着迷地开着罚单时，遇到了尼克（杰森·贝特曼[Jason Bateman]配音），一个厌世的骗子，他俩慢慢成了朋友，朱迪不顾上司阻挠，开始调查这起猖獗的哺乳动物失踪案，尼克成了朱迪的顾问。
If you’ve seen the trailer for this delightful movie you’ve already had a taste of what might be the greatest takedown of bureaucratic ineptitude ever filmed. It involves a trip by Judy and Nick to the Department of Motor Vehicles, with its all-sloth staff. In the context of children’s movies, it’s a fairly daring scene, since in an otherwise fast-moving story the joke takes a loooong time to roll out. But it sure is worth it.
这真是一部让人开心的电影，如果看过预告片，你就知道，这可能是对官僚主义的无能最有力的讽刺。片中有这样一幕，朱迪和尼克去机动车部门，员工都是树懒。在儿童电影的语境里，算是相当大胆的一幕，因为在一部快节奏的影片里，这个笑话可真要讲很长很长很长……的时间。不过完全值得。
Anyway, Judy learns some hard truths as she delves deeper into the mystery, and young viewers will, too. Chief among those is one adults know well: Being civilized doesn’t mean tension and ugly thoughts disappear. Also, bringing about positive change isn’t as easy as it seems.
不管怎么说，随着朱迪深入谜团，她也了解到了艰难的真相，小观众们也会从中学到东西。最重要的是一件成年人都知道的事情：文明并不意味着紧张局面与丑恶的想法统统消失。此外，做出积极的改变并没有看上去那么容易。
“I came here to make the world a better place,” Judy laments after her good intentions backfire, “but I think I broke it.”
“我来到这里是想让世界变成一个更好的地方，”朱迪的良好愿望却起了反效果，她抱怨说，“但我觉得我搞砸了。”
Funny, smart, thought-provoking — and musical, too. Shakira provides the voice of a pop star named Gazelle, and her vocals complete the package appealingly.
这部动画片风趣、聪明，发人深省，而且还富于音乐性。夏奇拉(Shakira)为片中名叫加泽尔(Gazelle)的流行歌星配音，她的献声也同样充满魅力。
“Zootopia” is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested) for gently rude humor and occasional scariness. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes.
《疯狂动物城》被标记为PG级（建议家长执导观看），有粗鲁的幽默，偶有可怕的场面。时长：1小时48分钟。