WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — Jill Abramson, the former executive editor of The New York Times, made her first public appearance since her abrupt dismissal last week, speaking about resilience in a long-scheduled commencement address on Monday at Wake Forest University.
北卡罗莱纳州温斯顿-塞伦——周一，《纽约时报》前主编吉尔·阿布拉姆松(Jill Abramson)在维克森林大学(Wake Forest University)毕业典礼上致辞，这场很久之前排定的演说，是阿布拉姆松被突然解职后的首次公开露面，演说中她谈到如何在困难中站起来。
In an 11-minute speech greeted with applause and laughter, Ms. Abramson said her father had always emphasized that it was as important to handle setbacks as to embrace success.
这场11分钟的演讲赢得了观众的掌声和笑声，阿布拉姆松说她父亲一直向她强调，面对挫折和拥抱成功一样重要。
“I’m talking to anyone who has been dumped — have not gotten the job you really wanted or have received those horrible rejection letters from grad school,” she said. “You know the disappointment of losing, or not getting something you badly want. When that happens, show what you are made of.”
“对所有被抛弃的人——没有得到自己真心想要的工作的人，接到了那些可怕的研究生院拒绝信的人，”她说，“我想说，你们知道失去或无法得到某个渴求的东西时，那种希望破灭的感觉。在那个时候，展示出你到底是什么样的人。”
She said she was asked by a student whether she might remove a tattoo on her back of The Times’s gothic T. “Not a chance,” she said.
她说有位学生问她，会不会把纹在背上代表时报的哥特体字母“T”去掉。“没门，”她说。
“It was the honor of my life to lead the newsroom,” she said.
“能领导那里的编辑部是我毕生的荣耀，”她说。
At least for the morning, a buzzing Manhattan news media story was transported from Midtown offices and boardrooms to a sunlit quad, surrounded by trees and stately buildings, alive with the excitement of graduating students in black gowns and mortarboards with black and gold tassels. Alongside the parents, students and others taking their seats were reporters from news organizations including Politico, The Wall Street Journal and several television stations.
至少在那个上午，一个闹哄哄的曼哈顿新闻媒体故事，从纽约市中心的办公室和董事会，被传送到了这片阳光灿烂的四边形庭院里，院子周围是树木和威严的建筑，毕业生们身着黑袍、戴着有黑金两色流苏的学位帽，整个庭院洋溢着他们的欢快。除了家长、学生以及其他各方人士，观众席里还坐着新闻机构的记者，其中包括《政治人》(Politico)、《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)以及多家电视台的记者。
“I’m impressed that your achievements here have attracted so much media attention,” she joked at the beginning of her address. She said her biggest concern about speaking at the commencement was that “the small media circus following me would detract from you, the class of 2014.”
“你们在这里取得的成就已经吸引了如此众多媒体的注意，对此我十分钦佩，”她在演说一开始时开玩笑说。她说这场毕业典礼演说最让她担心的是，“尾随我而来的小型媒体马戏团会让你们——2014级的同学们——感到扫兴。”
Ms. Abramson entered the ceremony in a procession with faculty members and administrators, wearing a black gown. She was introduced by Albert R. Hunt Jr., a Bloomberg News columnist, who called her appointment by The Times nearly three years ago, as the first female executive editor, a “seminal step.” Mr. Hunt praised her for leaving The Times “better, stronger and more vibrant than ever.”
阿布拉姆松身着黑袍，与学校教员、行政人员列队进入会场。彭博新闻社(Bloomberg News)专栏作家小阿尔伯特·R·亨特(Albert R. Hunt Jr.)为她作了开场白，三年前阿布拉姆松被任命为时报历史上首位女性主编一事，被亨特称为“创举”。他称赞时报在阿布拉姆松任内变得“空前地优秀、强大和活跃”。
Standing behind a lectern under a yellow and white striped marquee, in front of the spire of the university’s Wait Chapel, Ms. Abramson spoke slowly and clearly, despite Mr. Hunt’s lighthearted warning to the graduates that her strong New York accent might require a translator.
在大学的威特教堂尖顶前，黄白两色条纹的遮篷下，阿布拉姆松的言语缓慢而清晰，尽管之前亨特向毕业生们打趣说，她有很重的纽约口音，可能会需要翻译。
Approached by reporters when the ceremony ended, Ms. Abramson said she had nothing more to say.
面对仪式结束后上前提问的记者，阿布拉姆松说她想说的都已经说了。
“There were definitely different expectations,” said Wade Collins, 22, graduating with a bachelor’s degree in mathematical economics. “Some people expected her to go hard at what happened. But she walked the line really well. And this was interesting. These speeches can be really dull.”
现年22岁的韦德·科林斯(Wade Collins)以数理经济学学士学位毕业，他说，“大家肯定是有不同的期待的。有人以为她会对刚刚发生的事情发表严厉评论。但她的分寸把握得很好。挺有意思。这种演讲有时候可以很无聊的。”
Since the publisher of The Times, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., announced on Wednesday that she would be replaced by the No. 2 editor, Dean Baquet, Ms. Abramson had not publicly discussed her ouster. Mr. Sulzberger had tried to bring off a smooth transition, but Ms. Abramson declined to participate in a more peaceful handover, according to people with direct knowledge of the situation.
时报出版人小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)上周三宣布，阿布拉姆松将被编辑团队二号人物迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)取代，此后她一直没就自己被解职一事发表公开言论。据对内情有第一手了解的人说，苏兹伯格曾试图寻求平稳过渡，但阿布拉姆松不愿参与一场更为平和的权力交接。
In his initial announcement, Mr. Sulzberger said only that he had fired her because of “an issue with management in the newsroom.”
苏兹伯格在最初的声明中说，解雇她完全是因为“编辑部的管理工作存在问题”。
Last week, a report on The New Yorker’s website suggested that she had been fired for seeking equal pay with her predecessor, Bill Keller, setting off a debate on gender equality. Those reports were strenuously denied by The Times, which said that Ms. Abramson earned 10 percent more than Mr. Keller by the time her tenure ended.
《纽约客》(New Yorker)上周的一篇报道称，她被解雇的原因是她要求得到跟前任主编比尔·凯勒(Bill Keller)同等的薪资待遇，从而点燃了一场关于性别平等的争论。时报一直在竭力否认类似的报道，称阿布拉姆松在任期结束之时的薪资比凯勒要高出10%。
In response to those reports, and a growing debate over whether gender played a role in her dismissal, Mr. Sulzberger issued two more statements about Ms. Abramson in an attempt to quell the furor over her departure. In one statement, issued on Saturday, Mr. Sulzberger wrote, “I concluded that she had lost the support of her masthead colleagues and could not win it back.”
针对这些报道，以及她的解职是否涉及性别问题一事引起的激烈争论，苏兹伯格又发表了两份声明，试图平息阿布拉姆松的离职所引起的轰动。他在周六发表的其中一份声明中写道，“我最终认定她已经失去了编辑、管理高层同仁的支持，并且无法重新赢得这种支持。”
Ms. Abramson, 60, had been confirmed as the speaker at Wake Forest for some weeks, Nathan O. Hatch, the university’s president, said in an interview before the commencement. She was recruited to speak by Mr. Hunt, a Wake Forest alumnus and member of the college’s board of trustees.
维克森林大学校长内森·O·哈奇(Nathan O. Hatch)在毕业典礼演说前接受采访说，现年60岁的阿布拉姆松数周前已经确认了这场演讲。她是受到了维克森林大学校友、校理事亨特的邀请。
After the news of Ms. Abramson’s dismissal, Mr. Hatch said, “We called her on Thursday, and she still wanted to do it.”
在阿布拉姆松被解职的消息传出后，哈奇说，“我们在周四给她打了电话，她还是希望能来。”
The controversy has brought more attention to the speech, Mr. Hatch said, and will perhaps have extra significance for graduates who are “coming into a world where they may have 20 jobs in their lifetimes” and will need to learn resilience. For female students, he said, “I do think it has extra resonance.”
哈奇说离职风波给这场演讲带来了更多的关注，这对毕业生来说可能有着一层特殊的意义，因为“他们即将走入的这个世界，可能一生中会有20份工作”，他们需要知道如何迅速地恢复过来。他说，对于女学生，“我的确认为这会引起格外的共鸣。”
Mr. Hatch, following Ms. Abramson, spoke on the value of teamwork. “Great teams,” he said, “require trust in each other.”
在阿布拉姆松的演讲之后，哈奇也上台谈了团队合作的价值。他说，“伟大的团队，需要彼此信任。”