The New York Times and The New Yorker magazine won the Pulitzer Prize for public service on Monday for their reporting on sexual harassment that ushered in a reckoning about the treatment of women by powerful men in the uppermost ranks of Hollywood, politics, media and technology.
周一，《纽约时报》和《纽约客》(The New Yorker)杂志凭借有关性骚扰的报道同获普利策公共服务奖。它们的报道开启了对好莱坞、政坛、媒体和科技界顶层权势男性对待女性态度的思考。
Beginning with revelations in The Times about the Fox News anchor Bill O’Reilly, the coverage also included reports about the film mogul Harvey Weinstein by The Times and The New Yorker, setting off a cascade of testimonials from women about abuse in the workplace, whether at a Beverly Hills hotel or a Ford Motor plant in the Midwest. By year’s end, what came to be known as the #MeToo movement had reshaped the modern conversation around gender and fairness.
从时报揭露福克斯新闻(Fox News)主播比尔·奥莱利(Bill O'Reilly)开始，相关新闻报道还包括时报和《纽约客》有关电影大亨哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)的报道。它们引发了女性铺天盖地的有关职场性骚扰的证言，无论是在比佛利山的酒店还是在中西部的福特汽车(Ford Motor)厂。到了年底，后来被称作“#MeToo”（我也是）的运动重塑了这场围绕性别和公平的现代对话。
The Pulitzer board awarded its national reporting prize to The Times and The Washington Post for coverage that documented possible ties between Russia and President Trump’s inner circle and examined whether Mr. Trump had tried to obstruct an investigation of possible collusion during the presidential campaign.
普利策奖委员会将国内新闻报道奖授予了时报和《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)。它们的报道记录了俄罗斯与特朗普总统的小圈子之间可能存在的联系，并调查了特朗普是否曾试图阻挠对其在总统竞选期间可能存在共谋的调查。
The shared prize was a recognition of sorts of a modern-day newspaper war between The Times and The Post, both targets of the president’s ire that have regularly — sometimes hourly — swapped scoops about the Trump administrations.
同获一奖是对时报与邮报之间现代报纸大战的某种认可。它们都是总统泄愤的对象，频繁——有时候一小时一次——地交替曝出有关特朗普政府的独家报道。
“This prize honors an exciting, day-by-day competition in which two great newsrooms fight to cover a Washington in turmoil,” Dean Baquet, executive editor of The Times, told hundreds of journalists gathered on Monday in the paper’s Manhattan newsroom. “It is a great moment for American journalism.”
“这个奖是对一场激动人心、日复一日的竞争的表彰。在这场竞争中，两个伟大的编辑部竞相报道一片混乱的华盛顿，”时报执行主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)周一在该报的曼哈顿编辑部对聚集的数百名记者说。“这是美国新闻业的伟大时刻。”
The Post also won the award for investigative reporting for its exposé of Roy S. Moore, the Republican Senate candidate in Alabama, whose bid for higher office was upended after The Post uncovered that he had groped and harassed multiple women, one as young as 14. Besides unearthing the allegations against Mr. Moore, The Post’s reporters foiled an attempt by the right-wing activist James O’Keefe to undermine their reporting by planting false information in the paper.
邮报还因揭露阿拉巴马州共和党参议员候选人罗伊·S·摩尔(Roy S. Moore)而获得调查性报道奖。在邮报揭露他猥亵和骚扰多名女性，其中一个才14岁后，他谋求更高职位的行动失败。除起底对摩尔的指控外，邮报记者还挫败了右翼活动人士詹姆斯·欧基弗(James O'Keefe)通过在报纸上发布虚假信息来破坏报道的企图。
“Journalists need both a soul and a spine,” Martin Baron, the executive editor of The Post, said in a speech to his newsroom. His journalists, he said, “had both.”
“记者既需要灵魂，又需要骨气，”邮报执行主编马丁·巴伦(Martin Baron)在编辑部发表讲话时说。他说，他手下的记者“两者兼具”。
“They showed soul in their thorough dedication to our mission of getting at the truth,” Mr. Baron said. “They showed spine by staying focused on their work in the face of denunciation, deceit and threats by politicians and their allies.”
“他们完全献身于我们寻求真相的使命，证明了他们的灵魂，”巴伦说。“面对谴责、欺骗和政客及其盟友的威胁，他们坚持专注于自己的工作，证明了他们的骨气。”
He called the Pulitzer-winning coverage “a case study in why we need a free and independent press in this country.”
他说，获得普利策奖的新闻报道是“我们这个国家为什么需要自由、独立的媒体的案例研究”。
Mr. Trump’s lacing attacks on the press — the president has impugned reporters by name, railed against television networks whose coverage he dislikes and mused about loosening libel laws to make it easier for journalists to be sued — were an uneasy backdrop to this year’s Pulitzers, which are presented annually by Columbia University to recognize excellence in journalism and letters.
普利策奖每年由哥伦比亚大学颁发，用于表彰新闻和文学界的杰出成果。对今年的普利策奖获得者来说，特朗普对媒体的攻击——总统指名道姓地质疑记者、责骂制作了他不喜欢的新闻报道的电视台并考虑放松诽谤法，以方便起诉记者——是一个令人不安的背景。
“Winners uphold the highest purpose of a free and independent press — even in the most trying of times,” Dana Canedy, the administrator of the awards, said before announcing the prizes.
“获奖者坚持媒体自由和独立的最高目标，即便是在最艰难的时候，”普利策奖的评委会负责人达纳·卡内迪(Dana Canedy)在宣布获奖结果前说。
Presidential politics figured in the prize for explanatory reporting, given to The Arizona Republic and the USA Today Network for scrutinizing the consequences of Mr. Trump’s pledge to build a wall along the Mexican border; in the prize for commentary, given to John Archibald of the Alabama Media Group in Birmingham, Ala., for writings on Mr. Moore’s candidacy; and in the prize for criticism, awarded to the art critic for New York magazine, Jerry Saltz.
总统政治出现在三个奖项中，分别是《亚利桑那共和报》(The Arizona Republic)和今日美国网络(USA Today Network)因调查特朗普承诺沿墨西哥边境筑墙的后果所获的解释性报道奖、阿拉巴马州伯明翰阿拉巴马媒体集团的约翰·阿希巴尔德(John Archibald)凭借有关摩尔候选人身份的报道所获的评论奖和《纽约》(New York)杂志的艺术评论家杰里·萨尔茨(Jerry Saltz)所获的批评奖。
Mr. Saltz, an impish and catholic critic, often analyzes the crossroads of art and politics, particularly the cultural vectors of Mr. Trump’s America. His prize was one of several top awards that went to magazines, which became eligible for all Pulitzer categories only in 2016.
作为一名涉猎广泛、作风顽皮的批评家，萨尔茨常对艺术和政治的交叉点进行分析，尤其是特朗普时代美国的文化风向。本次有多家杂志得到了重要奖项，萨尔茨就是其中之一。普利策直到2016年才将杂志纳入所有奖项的甄选范围。
GQ won this year’s feature writing prize for a searing profile by Rachel Kaadzi Ghansah of Dylann Roof, the white supremacist who killed nine African-American churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., in 2015. The New Yorker shared the public service prize for stories by Ronan Farrow, the journalist and former MSNBC host, who revealed details about Mr. Weinstein’s predations against women and the sophisticated network of lawyers and private eyes he used to shield that behavior from public view.
《GQ》凭借蕾切尔·卡兹·甘萨(Rachel Kaadzi Ghansah)令人痛心的一篇人物报道赢得了今年的特稿写作奖，文章的中心人物是2015年在北卡罗来纳查尔斯顿的教堂杀害9名非裔美国人的白人至上主义者——迪伦·鲁夫(Dylann Roof)。《纽约客》则靠前MSNBC主持人、记者罗南·法罗(Ronan Farrow)的报道共同获得了公共服务奖，报道披露了韦恩斯坦捕猎女性的细节，以及他如何用律师和私家侦探组成的复杂网络屏蔽公众的视线。
The staff of The Cincinnati Enquirer won the prize for local reporting for its coverage of families ravaged by heroin addiction. Reuters won the international reporting prize for covering the brutal killings of drug dealers ordered by President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines.
《辛辛那提问询报》(The Cincinnati Enquirer)全体员工因报道深受海洛因瘾摧残的家庭而获得了地方报道奖。路透社(Reuters)则因为报道菲律宾在总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)命令下对毒贩开展的滥杀而获得国际报道奖。
Photography prizes went to Reuters, for images of the violence faced by refugees in Myanmar, and to Ryan Kelly of The Daily Progress in Charlottesville, Va., who captured an image of a car plowing into a group of protesters at a protest that led to a national outcry over white supremacism.
摄影奖分别颁给了路透社和弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔《进步日报》(The Daily Progress)的瑞安·凯利(Ryan Kelly)。路透社的照片记录了难民在缅甸面对的暴力，瑞安·凯利的照片则捕捉到了一场抗议活动中，一辆汽车冲进了抗议人群那一刻，这随后在全国引发了对白人至上主义的强烈抗议。
In the artistic categories, the award for fiction went to “Less,” by Andrew Sean Greer, a globe-trotting chronicle of an aging novelist confronting middle age, career disappointments and travails in love.
艺术类奖项中，小说奖授予了安德鲁·肖恩·格里尔(Andrew Sean Greer)的作品《更少》(Less)，作品讲述了一位面对中年、失业受挫和爱情艰辛的小说家环游世界的故事。
“Cost of Living,” an Off Broadway play by Martyna Majok, won the prize for drama. “I am shaking,” Ms. Majok, 33, a Polish immigrant who saw her first theater show at 17 after winning $45 from playing pool, said in an interview. “I am overcome and overwhelmed. When I got the news, I didn’t believe it for a solid 10 minutes.”
玛蒂娜·马朱克(Martyna Majok)的外百老汇剧目《生活代价》(Cost of Living)获戏剧奖。“我在发抖，”33岁的波兰移民马朱克在一个采访中说，她17岁时曾用打台球赢得的45美元看了人生中的第一场剧院演出。“我都懵了，不知所措。听到消息时，我有整整10分钟没法相信这是真的。”
The nonfiction prize went to “Locking Up Our Own: Crime and Punishment in Black America,” a book by James Forman Jr. that traced the history of contemporary criminal justice. A life of the author Laura Ingalls Wilder, “Prairie Fires,” by Caroline Fraser, was named the prizewinner for biography.
非虚构奖颁给了小詹姆斯·福尔曼(James Forman Jr.)的《把自己人关起来——美国黑人的罪与罚》(Locking Up Our Own: Crime and Punishment in Black America)，该书是对美国当代刑事司法史的回顾。传记奖则由卡罗琳·弗雷泽(Caroline Fraser)收入囊中，她的《草原之火》(Prairie Fires)讲述了作家劳拉·英戈尔斯·怀尔德(Laura Ingalls Wilder)的一生。
The hip-hop star Kendrick Lamar won the prize for music for his pointed, defiant studio album, “DAMN.”
说唱歌手坎德里克·拉马尔(Kendrick Lamar)凭借尖锐、无畏的录音室专辑《DAMN.》赢得了音乐奖。
The Times received three awards in all, including the prize for editorial cartooning — a first for the paper — for a series that chronicled a Syrian refugee family’s entry into the United States. The public service prize was the sixth time The Times has received the prestigious award in the more than century-long history of the Pulitzers.
时报总计获得了三个奖项，其中，关于一个进入美国的叙利亚难民家庭的系列漫画助时报首次获得了社论漫画奖。而公共服务奖则是时报在普利策奖一个多世纪历史里第六次获得此殊荣。