The daughters of a New Hampshire poet say “The Big Bang Theory” stole their mother’s verses about a “soft kitty” for a lullaby that has become a staple of the television show.
一位新罕布什尔诗人的女儿说，《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)中的一首摇篮曲，剽窃了诗人的一首关于“软猫咪”的诗歌。如今这首歌已是该剧的重要元素。
A lawsuit against Warner Brothers, CBS and other media companies said that the poem was written by Edith Newlin, a teacher, in the 1930s and that it was published in 1937 in a book called “Songs for the Nursery School.”
一桩针对华纳兄弟(Warner Brothers)、CBS及其他媒体公司的诉讼称，身为教师的艾迪丝·纽林(Edith Newlin)在1930年代写下该诗，并于1937年发表在一本题为《托儿所歌曲》(Songs for the Nursery School)的书中。
Ellen Newlin Chase and Margaret Chase Perry, accusing the companies of copyright infringement, say permission was never sought from their mother before the words were used in several episodes of the comedy, about socially awkward scientists navigating the world with the help of an outgoing waitress neighbor.
艾伦·纽林·蔡斯(Ellen Newlin Chase)和玛格丽特·蔡斯·佩里(Margaret Chase Perry)指控这些公司侵犯版权，她们称，这部喜剧多次在剧中使用了母亲的诗句，但从未求得她的授权。该剧讲述了几名不善交际的科学家在一个外向的女服务生邻居帮助下应对世事的故事。
The lullaby was introduced by the character Sheldon Cooper, an anxious boy-man genius played by Jim Parsons, in 2008, when he was sick and asked the neighbor, Penny, to soothe him with the song.
这首摇篮曲是通过剧中人物谢尔顿·库珀(Sheldon Cooper)在2008年引入该剧的，库珀是一个天才，虽然成年，却还像个孩子，由吉姆·帕森斯(Jim Parsons)饰演。当时他因为生病，要求邻居潘妮(Penny)用这首歌来缓解他的痛苦。
It goes:
歌词如下：
Soft kitty, warm kitty
软猫咪，暖猫咪
Little ball of fur
一身毛乎乎
Happy kitty, sleepy kitty
哈哈猫咪，困困猫咪
Purr, purr, purr.
咕 噜 噜
At times, the credits said the song was written by Bill Prady, a principal of Chuck Lorre Productions, one of the show’s producers, according to the lawsuit.
据诉讼称，剧集多次将歌曲作者标为比尔·普拉迪(Bill Prady)，他是查克·洛尔制片公司(Chuck Lorre Productions)合伙人，剧集的制片人之一。
A Warner Brothers spokesman said in an email that the company was not commenting on the case.
华纳兄弟公司的一位发言人在电邮中称，公司对本案不予置评。
The lawsuit also says the words have appeared on T-shirts, air fresheners and other merchandise without authorization. CBS even had a “soft kitty” contest, asking fans to upload videos of themselves singing the song, according to the lawsuit.
诉讼书称，相关词句在未经授权的情况下还出现在了T恤、空气清新剂等周边产品中。CBS甚至还举办了一场“软猫咪”竞赛，请粉丝上传自己唱这首歌的视频。
“The Soft Kitty Lyrics are among the best-known and most popular aspects of The Big Bang Theory,” the lawsuit says. “They have become a signature and emblematic feature of the show and a central part of the show’s promotion.”
“‘软猫咪’歌词是《生活大爆炸》最为人熟知、最流行的一面，”诉讼书称。“已经成为该剧的一个标志和象征，是剧集推广的一个核心。”
Ms. Newlin, who was born in Indiana, died in 2004, according to the lawsuit. She studied and taught in New York before settling in Alstead, N.H., where she worked as a nursery school teacher for 35 years. Throughout her life, she wrote several children’s books and poems that were published.
诉讼书称，在印第安纳州出生的纽林已于2004年去世。她曾在纽约读书、任教，后移居新罕布什尔艾尔斯蒂德，在那里作了35年的托儿所老师。她一生写作并出版了许多童书和诗作。
One of the daughters discovered the show’s use of the lyrics in 2014 while researching her mother’s life for an article she was writing.
她的其中一个女儿在2014年发现该剧使用了相关歌词，当时她为了撰写一篇文章正在研究母亲的生平。