MOSCOW — A Russian lawmaker who was the driving force behind a measure that banned the distribution of “homosexual propaganda” to minors said on Monday that the law should be applied to a new Disney version of “Beauty and the Beast,” even while acknowledging that he had not yet seen the movie.
莫斯科——一位推动禁止向未成年人传播“同性恋宣传”议案的俄罗斯议员周日表示，这项法案应该适用于迪士尼新版的《美女与野兽》(Beauty and the Beast)，尽管他承认自己还没看过这部影片。
The lawmaker, Vitaly V. Milonov, relied on news media reports and complaints from parents that the children’s film includes a gay character who participates in a “sexually deviated scene,” said his spokesman, Ilya Yevstigneyev. This is an apparent reference not to the concept of love between a human and a beast but to a seconds-long glimpse of a gay character near the end of the movie dancing with the object of his affections.
维塔列·V·米洛诺夫(Vitaly V. Milonov)议员的发言人伊利亚·叶夫斯季格涅耶夫(Ilya Yevstigneyev)表示，米洛诺夫的依据是新闻媒体的报道和父母的抱怨，说这部儿童影片中有一位同性恋角色，而且出现在一个“性变态”的场景中。这针对的显然不是一个人类与一头野兽相爱的概念，而是在影片即将结束时出现的、仅仅持续数秒钟的一个同性恋角色与爱慕对象跳舞的镜头。
“In this case, society cannot be silent about what film distributors are offering under the guise of a children’s tale,” Mr. Milonov said in a letter to the Russian Culture Ministry, which oversees the film market. “The obvious, blatant, shameless propaganda of sin, of perverted sexual relations.”
“在这种情况下，社会不能对电影发行商在童话故事掩盖下所传播的内容保持沉默了，”米洛诺夫在给监管电影市场的俄罗斯文化部(Russian Culture Ministry)的一封信中写道。“也就是对罪恶和变态性关系进行明显地、公然地和无耻地宣传。”
The release of the film coincides with the start of spring vacation for Russian schoolchildren, adding — for Mr. Milonov — a sense of urgency. “Our common task,” he writes, “is to stop this music film from being shown on screens one way or another.”
影片的上映时间恰逢俄罗斯学龄儿童春假开始，这加重了米洛诺夫带的紧迫感。“我们的共同任务，”他写道，“是想方设法阻止这部音乐片出现在银幕上。”
There is no disputing that the movie, starring the British actress Emma Watson as Belle, features a gay character, LeFou, played by an American, Josh Gad. Bill Condon, the director, said as much in an interview with a British magazine, noting as a point of pride that it would be the first Disney movie to do so. Last week, a drive-in theater in rural Alabama cited similar arguments in declaring that it, too, would refuse to screen the movie.
这部由英国女演员艾玛·沃特森(Emma Watson)饰演美女(Belle)的影片里的确有一位同性恋角色，这一点并无争议，那个叫乐福(LeFou)的角色由美国演员乔什·盖德(Josh Gad)扮演。影片导演比尔·康顿(Bill Condon)在接受一家英国杂志采访时也这么表示，而且骄傲地指出它将是第一部出现同性恋角色的迪士尼影片。上周，阿拉巴马乡村一家汽车影院宣称也将拒绝播映这部影片，理由与之类似。
The Russian Culture Ministry did not respond to a request for comment, and Disney did not respond to a query.
俄罗斯文化部没有回应时报的置评请求。迪斯尼公司也没有回应时报的询问。
Fighting homosexuality has been a recurrent theme for Mr. Milonov, 43, a champion of the Russian Orthodox Church. In 2013, he lobbied successfully for the “homosexual propaganda” law banning the distribution to minors of materials depicting “nontraditional sexual relations.”
对43岁的俄罗斯东正教会(Russian Orthodox Church)捍卫者米洛诺夫而言，打击同性恋是一个反复出现的主题。2013年，他成功地游说通过了禁止向未成年人传播描述“非传统性关系”内容的“同性恋宣传”法规。
He and some associates also raided gay clubs in St. Petersburg to evict underage customers and once demanded the prosecution of the pop stars Madonna and Lady Gaga for spreading what he considered “homosexual propaganda.”
他和一些同事曾经突袭圣彼得堡的一些同性恋俱乐部，驱逐未达法定年龄的消费者，还曾要求起诉流行歌手麦当娜(Madonna)和Lady Gaga，原因是她们传播了在他看来属于“同性恋宣传”的内容。