Right now, Kyle Bauer fears “Breaking Bad” spoilers more than a pop quiz in class.
眼下，凯尔·鲍尔(Kyle Bauer)害怕遇上《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)的剧透，这种恐惧更甚于对课堂突击测验的担忧。
At the University of Pittsburgh, where Mr. Bauer is studying engineering, students cram into his dormitory lounge every Sunday night to watch the latest episode. But not Mr. Bauer, who was, as of Monday, still about 20 episodes behind. That night, he started binge-viewing so that he can be in the lounge for Sunday’s all-important finale — figuring that if he’s not there to see the ending when everyone else does, someone will spoil it for him.
鲍尔在匹兹堡大学(University of Pittsburgh)读工程学，每到周日晚上，都有学生挤在宿舍的休息室里观看最新一集的《绝命毒师》。但是，鲍尔周一时还落后了20集。那天晚上起，他开始恶补，以便周日可以去休息室观看无比重要的大结局——他觉得，如果自己不去那里看大结局，而其他人都去了，那么自己可能就会被剧透。
“My friends are telling me it’ll be the best decision of my life,” he said Wednesday night, without even hitting pause during his marathon to talk to a reporter.
“朋友们告诉我，这会是我一生中做出的最佳决定。”他周三晚上说，甚至在跟记者交谈的时候，他也没有暂停对《绝命毒师》的马拉松式恶补。
In its final season, “Breaking Bad” on AMC has become the It Show on cable television. All over the country, converts to the series about a mild-mannered teacher turned drug lord have set aside schoolwork, dishes and laundry to try to catch up on old episodes through Netflix, Amazon, iTunes and other Internet services.
AMC电视台的《绝命毒师》，在其最后一季里成为了风头最劲的有线电视节目。它讲述的是一位温文尔雅的老师转变为毒枭的经历，美国各地的粉丝已经把做功课、洗餐具、洗衣物这些事情放到一边，试图通过Netflix、亚马逊、iTunes和其他互联网服务来赶上AMC播放它的进度。
The hype around hit television show finales has always been intense, but what has happened with “Breaking Bad” exemplifies a twist in the relationship between the parallel universes of live, linear television (the kind symbolized by Comcast and DirecTV) and on-demand TV (as embodied by Netflix).
对于热门电视剧集的大结局，宣称炒作一直都很激烈，但《绝命毒师》现象体现了一种关系的颠覆，这种关系存在于直播的、线性的电视服务（以Comcast和DirecTV为代表）和点播电视服务（由Netflix为代表）的平行世界之间。
On-demand services are typically thought to hurt live television viewing. In this case, they are fueling it.
人们通常认为，点播服务会打压直播节目的收视率。而在本例中，前者对后者的收视率起到了推动作用。
“Breaking Bad” made its debut in 2008 to an underwhelming 1.2 million viewers — which would have caused many programming chiefs to drop it. But the show dodged cancellation and slowly built a following — especially once the old episodes were made available en masse on Netflix.
《绝命毒师》首次播出是在2008年，当时的收视人数仅为区区120万——很多节目安排负责人往往会砍掉这样的剧集。但《绝命毒师》逃过了这样的劫难，慢慢建立了粉丝群——特别是在大家都能在Netflix上看到它的已播剧集之后。
By mid-2012, about 2.6 million viewers were watching live episodes; now, as the ending approaches, that total has more than doubled to 6 million, which might be small for a network television show but makes “Breaking Bad” one of the biggest phenomena on cable.
到2012年年中，观看《绝命毒师》直播集的观众约为260万，现在，随着大结局的临近，这个总数翻了一倍多，达到600万人。对于电视网的剧集来说，这个数字可能偏小，但它却让《绝命毒师》成为了收视人数最多的有线电视节目之一。
“What’s remarkable about this show is we’ve created urgency to see it,” said Charlie Collier, the president of AMC, which has been running a marathon of every episode since Wednesday.
“这个节目的不同凡响之处在于，我们制造了一种观看它的紧迫感，”AMC总裁查理·科利尔(Charlie Collier)说。自周三起，该台已经开始对《绝命毒师》的老剧集进行马拉松式联播。
DVDs and, before that, VHS tapes have allowed audiences to catch up on shows for a long time — in fact, the popularity of “Family Guy” DVDs were partly credited with the 2005 revival of the once-canceled Fox animated comedy. But binge-viewing behavior has become much more pronounced in the last few years, mainly because Netflix and services like it have made it so easy to do.
很久以前，观众就可以用DVD及之前的VHS录像带补看已播剧集了——事实上，一度被砍的福克斯动画喜剧片《居家男人》(Family Guy)在2005年复播，部分原因就是它的DVD广受欢迎。但是，集中观看大量剧集的现象在过去几年中变得更加显著，这主要是因为有了Netflix及类似的服务，让连看数集变得很方便。
Last Sunday, as “Breaking Bad” was finally winning the television industry’s highest honor, an Emmy award for outstanding drama, the show set a new ratings record for itself — 6.6 million, according to Nielsen — making it the biggest program on cable that night. At the same time, many people were just starting their marathons. According to Netflix, each day for the last two weeks, the most-streamed episode of the show has been the very first one, during which Walter White crystallized methamphetamine for the first time.
上周日，随着《绝命毒师》终于赢得电视界的最高荣誉：艾美奖最佳剧集，它又创下了新的收视人数纪录——尼尔森(Nielsen)的资料显示为660万——是当晚收视率最高的有线电视节目。与此同时，很多人刚刚开始恶补。Netflix的资料显示，过去两周的每一天里，《绝命毒师》点播最多的已播集是第一季第一集，男主角沃尔特·怀特(Walter White)在这一集中首次制作了冰毒。
The show’s creator, Vince Gilligan, credited the Internet when accepting his Emmy. “I think Netflix kept us on the air,” he told reporters backstage, adding that he did not believe that the show would have survived more than two seasons without the audience and revenue lifts that Netflix provided, along with online chatter.
《绝命毒师》主创文斯·吉利根(Vince Gilligan)在接受艾美奖时感谢了互联网。他在后台告诉记者，“我认为Netflix帮助我们活了下来。”他还说，如果没有观众和Netflix播出带来的收入增长，以及网上的热议，他不相信这个电视剧可以超过两季。
As first reported by AdAge, the network sought $300,000 to $400,000 for a 30-second ad in the final episode. AMC confirmed on Friday night that the episode was sold out. The network declined to comment on pricing, but assuming it achieved $300,000 a spot, it will be earning more for the airtime than even the highest-rated network dramas normally do.
《广告时代》(AdAge)首发的报道称，《绝命毒师》大结局集的每条30秒广告要价是30至40万美元。AMC周五晚上证实，该集的广告已经售罄，不过拒绝对价格置评，我们假设价格是30万美元一条，那么它在播放时段获得的收入，将高于排名最高的一些电视网剧情剧的通常收入。
“It’s a new era in television,” Mr. Gilligan said, “and we’ve been very fortunate to reap the benefits.”
“这是电视史上的一个新时代，”吉利根说，“我们能从中获益真是非常幸运。”
Mr. Collier of AMC said that social networking Web sites had amplified all the chatter about the show. (Nielsen estimates that the average person’s Twitter message about a TV show is seen by about 50 other people.) “Word of mouth is still a great thing,” he said.
AMC的科利尔说，社交网站放大了人们热议《绝命毒师》的效应。（尼尔森估计，普通用户谈论电视节目的Twitter消息，平均每条有约50人看到）。“口碑仍然非常重要，”他说。
Netflix’s licensing contracts do not cover the eight most recent episodes of “Bad,” so for those, new fans must rely on AMC, an online rental service or a less legal route. AMC’s marathon has been a big draw this week. In prime time, it had 1.0 million viewers on Wednesday and almost 1.2 million on Thursday. (The totals will increase after digital video recorder viewing is factored in.)
Netflix的授权合同不包含最近8集《绝命毒师》，所以要想看到它们，新粉丝必须依靠AMC、某个在线租赁服务，或者不怎么合法的途径。AMC的马拉松式联播已经产生了巨大的吸引力。收视黄金时段的观众人数周三为100万，周四是将近120万（把数字视频录像观看人数加进来之后，这个总数还会更大）。
Perhaps aptly for a show about a meth dealer, Melodie Holmes has noticed its addictive tendencies. Ms. Holmes, of Kitchener, Ontario, said she and her husband “generally watch two episodes a night, and look at each other seeing whether or not we could stay awake on a ‘school night’ for more,” she said. More often than not, they stayed up — and now they are all caught up.
梅勒迪·霍姆斯(Melodie Holmes)认为《绝命毒师》容易令人上瘾，这么形容一部讲冰毒贩子的剧集倒有些贴切。霍姆斯居住在安大略的基奇纳，她说，自己和丈夫“每晚至少观看两集《绝命毒师》，如果是工作日之前的晚上，我们看完两集后会看看彼此是否还有精力，再多看点儿。”他们经常都会熬夜观看——现在已经彻底赶上了进度。