At this year’s Tribeca Film Festival, Elvis will be in the building.
今年的翠贝卡电影节上(Tribeca Film Festival)上，将会重现猫王的身影。
The festival’s centerpiece screening will be the world premiere of “Elvis & Nixon,” directed by Liza Johnson, organizers announced Tuesday. The film stars Michael Shannon as Elvis Presley and Kevin Spacey as Richard M. Nixon, based on a moment in history when Presley arrived on the White House lawn with hopes of being deputized into the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs.
电影节的组织者与周二宣布，丽莎·约翰逊(Liza Johnson)执导的影片《猫王与尼克松》将在该电影节的主放映环节上做全球首映。片中迈克尔·珊农(Michael Shannon)饰演埃尔维斯·普莱斯利(Elvis Presley，又译猫王)，凯文·斯派西(Kevin Spacey)饰理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)。影片是根据一个真实历史时刻改编的，猫王来到白宫草坪，希望自己能成为麻醉品和危险药品管理局的警官。 
Among the other films announced is “A Hologram for the King,” directed and adapted for the screen by Tom Tykwer and starring Tom Hanks. It is based on Dave Eggers’s novel about a struggling businessman who tries to sell advanced technology to the king of Saudi Arabia. The movie is playing as part of the festival’s spotlight section, which also includes “All We Had,” a coming-of-age drama directed by Katie Holmes about a teenage girl and her mother settling in a new town. The section will open with “The Devil and the Deep Blue Sea,” starring Jason Sudeikis as a man who must rebuild his life after a tragedy. And “Custody” brings Viola Davis back to the big screen as a family court judge in a difficult marriage. The comedy “The Family Fang,” directed by Jason Bateman and featuring Nicole Kidman and Mr. Bateman as the children of performance artists, will also screen.
其他宣布将在该电影节上映的影片还包括《国王的全息图》(A Hologram for the King)，由汤姆·提克威尔(Tom Tykwer)改编为剧本并执导，汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)主演。它是根据戴夫·埃格斯(Dave Eggers)的小说改编的，讲述一个困境中的商人想把高科技推销给沙特阿拉伯国王的故事。影片将在电影节的焦点单元上映，此外还有《我们拥有的一切》(All We Had)，这是由凯蒂·霍尔姆斯(Katie Holmes)执导的一部成长剧，讲述一个少女和母亲搬到新镇子定居的故事。这个单元上映的第一部影片将是《两难之境》(The Devil and the Deep Blue Sea)，杰森·苏戴奇斯(Jason Sudeikis)在其中饰演一个悲剧之后重建自己生活的男人。《监护》(Custody)令维奥拉·戴维斯(Viola Davis)重返大屏幕，饰演一个身处婚姻困境的家事法庭法官。喜剧片《方氏家族》(The Family Fang)也将在电影节上映，该片由杰森·贝特曼(Jason Bateman)执导，贝特曼与妮可·基德曼(Nicole Kidman)在片中饰演一对行为艺术家的子女。
Documentaries in the spotlight section include “Command and Control,” based on Eric Schlosser’s 2013 book about nuclear risk. “Bad Rap” follows the lives of four Asian-American rappers trying to break into the mainstream. “Check It” looks at a group of inner-city L.G.B.T. youth in Washington who form a fashion gang. And the church of Scientology is further explored in “My Scientology Movie.”
焦点单元中的纪录片包括《命令与控制》(Command and Control)，它是根据艾力克·施洛瑟(Eric Schlosser)2013年关于核风险的书改编的。《坏说唱》(Bad Rap)讲述压抑美国说唱歌手如何打入主流的故事。《看这个》(Check It)讲述一个华盛顿内城的L.G.B.T青年团体如何组成一个时尚群体。《我的山达基电影》(My Scientology Movie)进一步探讨山达基教问题。
Special events at the festival will include a performance by Green Day’s Billie Joe Armstrong after a screening of the narrative film “Geezer,” which stars Mr. Armstrong as a father and former punk rocker. And the soccer star Pelé will hold a discussion after a screening of a narrative film about his life, “Pelé: Birth of a Legend.”
电影节的特别活动包括叙事片《Geezer》结束后，“绿日”(Green Day)的比利·乔·阿姆斯特朗(Billie Joe Armstrong)的表演，他在这部影片中饰演一个父亲和前朋克乐手。足球明星贝利(Pelé)将在讲述他生平的电影《贝利：传奇的诞生》(Pelé: Birth of a Legend)上映结束后举行座谈。
The Tribeca Film Festival will run from April 13-24.
翠贝卡电影节将于4月13日至24日举行。