The premise of China’s new favorite reality television show – “Where Are We Going, Dad?” – is simple. Five famous fathers from urban China accompany their infant children on 72-hour trips to the countryside, competing as father-child duos against the other coupled contestants.
中国最新的超人气真人秀《爸爸去哪儿》的设定很简单。来自城市的五位明星父亲带着他们的小孩去乡间待三天，组成五队亲子搭档来相互比赛。
But the show’s mixture of handsome celebrities and adorable children, all sprinkled with a smattering of competition at a feel-good countryside setting, has proven to be a recipe for ratings dominance in China.
这档节目把帅气逼人的明星与惹人喜爱的宝宝放在一起，加上了一点竞争的成分，搭配上愉快的乡村背景。事实证明，这是在中国取得收视大捷的秘诀。
In the less than two months since “Where Are We Going, Dad?” first aired, the show has climbed to the top of Chinese television ratings, generated more than 10 million comments on China’s most popular Twitter-like microblog and ignited a popular debate not only on parenting but also on gender equality within the family.
《爸爸去哪儿》开播不到两个月就攀升至全国收视冠军的位置，在中国最受欢迎的类似Twitter的微博服务上，引发了超过1000万条评论，激起了广泛的讨论，不光针对育儿问题，还有家庭内部的性别平等问题。
“I watch it every week and talk about each episode incessantly with my female colleagues at work,” said Li Xiuying, a teacher in Beijing who estimated that 90 percent of her colleagues were female. “By showing fathers spending quality time with their kids, this show could spark a parenting revolution.”
“我每个星期都看，每一集都要跟学校里的女同事不停地聊，”北京教师李秀英（音译）说。据她估计，90%的同事为女性。“这个节目播的是爸爸好好花时间与孩子在一起，可能会掀起一场亲子革命。”
Produced by Hunan Satellite TV, an independent powerhouse network in southern China, “Where Are You Going, Dad?” is so popular that the network decided to air new episodes eight times a week. The show’s viewership has risen steadily since its debut in early October, despite being pitted against other popular shows in one of China’s most competitive prime time television slots – Friday night at 10.
制作这档节目的是湖南卫视，中国南方充满活力的一家独立电视台。《爸爸去哪儿》太火了，以致于电视台决定每周把最新一期的节目播出八次。自10月初首播以来，节目的收视率稳步攀升，尽管它需要在中国竞争最激烈的黄金收视时段——周五晚10点——与其他热门节目比拼。
The celebrity fathers come from a range of different backgrounds, from the Taiwan singer and actor Jimmy Lin to the former mainland Chinese Olympic diving champion Tian Liang. But they share one thing in common – none of them felt that they had enough time with their kids before the show started.
明星父亲的背景各不相同，既有台湾歌手兼演员林志颖，也有来自大陆的前奥运跳水冠军田亮。不过，他们有一个共同点，那就是：参加节目前，每个人都觉得自己与孩子共处的时间不够多。
“I’ve only been taking care of my son for three full days, and I feel like breaking down,” said Guo Tao, a mainland Chinese actor who teams up with his son Guo Zirui (nicknamed “Little Stone”) on the show. “I can’t imagine how my wife managed to do this for the past six years.”
“我才照顾了儿子三天，就觉得招架不住了，”大陆演员郭涛说。他和儿子郭子睿（昵称“石头”）搭档参加了节目。“难以想象我老婆带了他六年。”
Due to countless such parenting epiphanies that occur on the show, many wives are encouraging their spouses to tune into “Where Are We Going, Dad?”
由于节目中出现了无数次类似的感悟，许多妻子鼓励她们的配偶去看《爸爸去哪儿》。
“The show is a catalyst that will help change social expectations for fathers,” said Fu Xiaoping, a childhood education expert at the prestigious Fudan University in Shanghai. “By revealing the joy possible in child rearing, the show will help make fathers pay more attention to their kids. The result of the show will be 100 times better than any well-intentioned advice coming from wives.” According to a survey of 500 Chinese fathers conducted by the communications firm JWT, such change would likely be welcome. More than two thirds of the fathers surveyed ranked driving their children to school and extracurricular activities as their most important child-care responsibilities. In contrast, less than 20 percent of respondents viewed changing diapers and making lunches as part of their parenting duties.
来自著名学府上海复旦大学的儿童教育专家付小平说，“这档节目是个催化剂，引发爸爸们关注育儿，体会其中快乐，这效果要比妈妈们的苦口婆心强上百倍。”传播公司智威汤逊(JWT)发布的对500名中国父亲的调查表明，这样的转变可能颇受欢迎。调查中，超过三分之二的父亲将送孩子上学和参加课外活动列为自己最重要的育儿职责。相形之下，不到20%的受访者将换尿布和做饭列为自己的育儿责任。
In a separate survey conducted by the Chongqing Morning News in October, 81 percent of respondents said that fathers do not play a large enough role in educating their children, while only 17 percent said that their own fathers played the principal role in their upbringings.
《重庆晨报》今年10月进行的一项调查显示，81%的受访市民感觉当前社会中，父亲在子女教育中扮演的角色不够充分；仅17%的人表示，父亲在自己的成长过程中承担了更多的教育责任。
Sun Yunxiao, the deputy director of the China Youth and Children Research Center, recently told the following story to the Chinese news media: “I once revealed to a taxi driver that I was involved in childhood education. He scoffed in response, ‘What are you doing getting involved in such things? That’s the job of you child’s mother; your job is to make money!’ The notion that men are outside the home and women must remain inside is still the traditional viewpoint.”
中国青少年研究中心副主任孙云晓最近对中国新闻媒体说：“我有一次打出租车，司机问我是干什么的，我说是搞儿童教育的。那个司机当时就看了我一眼，说，‘老爷们还搞什么儿童教育啊？教育是妈妈的事，你就管挣钱！’传统观念仍然是男主外、女主内。”