The year’s best books, selected by the editors of The New York Times Book Review.
本年度最佳书籍，由《纽约时报书评》编辑部评选。
FICTION
虚构类：
AMERICANAHBy Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.Alfred A. Knopf, $26.95.
《美国史迹》(Americanah)奇玛曼达·戈兹·阿迪切(Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie)著。阿尔弗莱德·A·克诺夫(Alfred A. Knopf)公司，26.95美元。
By turns tender and trenchant, Adichie’s third novel takes on the comedy and tragedy of American race relations from the perspective of a young Nigerian immigrant. From the office politics of a hair-braiding salon to the burden of memory, there’s nothing too humble or daunting for this fearless writer, who is so attuned to the various worlds and shifting selves we inhabit — in life and online, in love, as agents and victims of history and the heroes of our own stories.
本书是阿迪切的第三部小说，文风时而温柔，时而犀利，以一个尼日利亚年轻移民的角度呈现了美国种族关系中的悲喜剧。从编发辫沙龙中的办公室政治到记忆的负累，在这位勇敢作家的眼中，没有任何事情过于卑微或令人生畏；人们身处各种不同的世界，在生活、网络、恋爱中呈现多变的自我，在历史中扮演代理人与受害者角色，在我们自己的故事中又扮演英雄，她将这一切在小说中调和起来。
THE FLAMETHROWERSBy Rachel Kushner.Scribner, $26.99.
《喷火器》(The Flamethrowers)蕾切尔·库什纳(Rachel Kushner)著。斯克里布纳(Scribner)公司，26.99美元。
Radical politics, avant-garde art and motorcycle racing all spring to life in Kushner’s radiant novel of the 1970s, in which a young woman moves to New York to become an artist, only to wind up involved in the revolutionary protest movement that shook Italy in those years. The novel, Kushner’s second, deploys mordant observations and chiseled sentences to explore how individuals are swept along by implacable social forces.
激进政治、先锋艺术和摩托车赛在库什纳这本激情四溢的小说中仿佛跃然纸上，故事发生在20世纪70年代，一个年轻女人搬到纽约，想成为艺术家，却被卷入那个年代震撼了整个意大利的革命抗议运动中。这是库什纳的第二部小说，采取尖锐的观察和鲜明的语言，探索个体是如何被势不可挡的社会力量席卷而过。
THE GOLDFINCHBy Donna Tartt.Little, Brown & Company, $30.
《金翅雀》(The Goldfinch)唐娜·塔特(Donna Tartt)著。利特尔与布朗出版公司(Little, Brown & Company)，30美元。
Tartt’s intoxicating third novel, after “The Secret History” and “The Little Friend,” follows the travails of Theo Decker, who emerges from a terrorist bombing motherless but in possession of a prized Dutch painting. Like the best of Dickens, the novel is packed with incident and populated with vivid characters. At its heart is the unwavering belief that come what may, art can save us by lifting us above ourselves.
这是塔特继《秘密历史》(The Secret History)和《小朋友》(The Little Friend)之后推出的第三本迷人的小说，追溯了西奥·德克尔(Theo Decker)的痛苦历程，他因恐怖主义爆炸事件而失去母亲，却拥有一幅珍贵的荷兰油画。如同狄更斯那些最好的作品，这本小说中亦充满各种意外事件与鲜明的人物。小说的核心是这样一个坚定的信念：不管发生什么事情，艺术都能让我们通过超越自我而拯救自我。
LIFE AFTER LIFEBy Kate Atkinson.A Reagan Arthur Book/Little, Brown & Company, $27.99.
《生命不息》(Life After Life)凯特·阿特金森(Kate Atkinson)著。里根·阿瑟(Reagan Arthur)/利特尔与布朗出版公司。27.99美元。
Demonstrating the agile style and theatrical bravado of her much-admired Jackson Brodie mystery novels, Atkinson takes on nothing less than the evils of mid-20th-century history and the nature of death as she moves back and forth in time, fitting together versions of a life story for a heroine who keeps dying, then being resurrected — and sent off in different, but entirely plausible, directions.
阿特金森十分喜爱杰克逊·布罗迪(Jackson Brodie)的神秘小说，本书也有着同样轻盈的风格与戏剧化的夸张。阿特金森在书中呈现的正是20世纪中期历史中的邪恶人物，以及死亡的本质。书中的女主人公不断濒临死亡而被救活，之后被送到各不相同而又真实可信的地方，阿特金森在时空中来回转换，将女主人公不同版本的人生故事拼合起来。
TENTH OF DECEMBERStoriesBy George Saunders.Random House, $26.
《12月10日:短篇小说集》(Tenth of December: Stories)乔治·桑德斯(George Saunders)著。兰登书屋(Random House)。26美元。
Saunders’s wickedly entertaining stories veer from the deadpan to the flat-out demented: Prisoners are force-fed mood-altering drugs; ordinary saps cling to delusions of grandeur; third-world women, held aloft on surgical wire, become the latest in bourgeois lawn ornaments. Beneath the comedy, though, Saunders writes with profound empathy, and this impressive collection advances his abiding interest in questions of class, power and justice.
桑德斯这本小说集顽皮而又有趣，既有一本正经，也有毫不掩饰的疯狂：囚犯们被迫吃下控制情绪的药物；平凡的傻瓜迷上了宏大的妄想；来自第三世界的女人被外科缝合线挂在空中，成了资产阶级的最新草坪装饰。然而桑德斯的写作在喜剧表面之下充满深沉的移情作用，这部感人的小说集持续了他对阶级、权力和公正等问题的一贯兴趣。 
NONFICTION
非虚构类：
AFTER THE MUSIC STOPPEDThe Financial Crisis, the Response, and the Work AheadBy Alan S. Blinder.The Penguin Press, $29.95.
《音乐停止之后：金融危机、应对措施及未来工作》(After the Music Stopped: The Finacial Crisis, the Response, and the Work Ahead)艾伦·S·布林德(Alan S. Blinder)。企鹅出版公司(The Penguin Press)。29.95美元。
Blinder’s terrific book on the financial meltdown of 2008 argues that it happened because of a “perfect storm,” in which many unfortunate events occurred simultaneously, producing a far worse outcome than would have resulted from just a single cause. Blinder criticizes both the Bush and Obama administrations, especially for letting Lehman Brothers fail, but he also praises them for taking steps to save the country from falling into a serious depression. Their response to the near disaster, Blinder says, was far better than the public realizes.
布林德精彩的新书是关于2008年的金融危机，它肇始于一次“完美风暴”，许多不幸的事件同时发生，其结果远比其中某一事件可能引发的后果恶劣得多。布林德对布什和奥巴马政府都做了批评，特别是让雷曼兄弟公司倒闭一事，但他也表扬他们采取一些举措，令美国没有陷入严重衰退。布林德说，对于这个险些发生的灾难，他们的应对远比公众所知的要好。
DAYS OF FIREBush and Cheney in the White HouseBy Peter Baker.Doubleday, $35.
《火焰之日：布什与切尼在白宫》(Days of Fire: Bush and Cheney in the White House)彼得·贝克(Peter Baker)著。双日(Doubleday)出版公司。35美元。
Baker succeeds in telling the story of the several crises of the Bush administration with fairness and balance, which is to say that he is sympathetic to his subjects, acknowledging their accomplishments but excusing none of their errors. Baker, the chief White House correspondent for The Times, is fascinated by the mystery of the Bush-­Cheney relationship, and even more so by the mystery of George W. Bush himself. Did Bush lead, or was he led by others? In the end, Baker concludes, the “decider” really did decide.
贝克公正平衡地讲述了布什政府度过的数次危机，换言之，他同情本书的主人公们，也承认他们取得的成就，但并没有原谅他们的错误。贝克是《纽约时报》的首席驻白宫记者，他对布什与切尼之间的神秘关系十分着迷，对乔治·W·布什本人的秘密更是着迷。究竟是布什在领导他人，还是其他人在引导他？最后，贝克做出了结论：确实是“决定者”（布什在一次讲话中的自称——译注）在做决定。
FIVE DAYS AT MEMORIALLife and Death in a Storm-Ravaged HospitalBy Sheri Fink.Crown, $27.
《纪念医院中的五天：风灾中一家医院内的生与死》(Five Days at Memorial: Life and Death in a Storm-Ravaged Hospital)谢莉·芬克(Sheri Fink)著。皇冠(Crown)出版公司，27美元。
In harrowing detail, Fink describes the hellish days at a hospital during and after Hurricane Katrina, when desperate medical professionals were suspected of administering lethal injections to critically ill patients. Masterfully and compassionately reported and as gripping as a thriller, the book poses reverberating questions about end-of-life care, race discrimination in medicine and how individuals and institutions break down during disasters.
芬克以残酷的细节描述了卡特琳娜飓风期间一家医院内地狱般的日子，绝望的医疗人员被怀疑为危重病人注射致死药物。全书文笔娴熟，富于同情，而又如惊悚小说一般引人入胜，提出了诸多令人反思的问题，譬如临终关怀、医疗中的种族歧视，乃至个人和机构如何在灾难中崩溃。
THE SLEEPWALKERSHow Europe Went to War in 1914By Christopher Clark.Harper, $29.99.
《梦游者：1914年欧洲如何走向战争》(The Sleepwalkers: How Europe Went to War in 1914)克里斯托弗·克拉克(Christopher Clark)著。哈珀(Harper)出版公司，29.99美元。
Clark manages in a single volume to provide a comprehensive, highly readable survey of the events leading up to World War I. He avoids singling out any one nation or leader as the guilty party. “The outbreak of war,” he writes, “is not an Agatha Christie drama at the end of which we will discover the culprit standing over a corpse.” The participants were, in his term, “sleepwalkers,” not fanatics or murderers, and the war itself was a tragedy, not a crime.
克拉克对导致“一战”爆发的事件做了综合调查，可读性极强，又将其浓缩在一本书内。他避免将某一国家或领导人作为罪魁祸首。他写道：“战争的爆发并不是阿加莎·克里斯蒂(Agatha Christie)式的戏剧性场面，到最后我们会发现罪人站在尸体旁边。”用他的话来说，参战者都是“梦游者”，而不是狂热分子或谋杀犯，战争本身则是悲剧而非罪行。
WAVEBy Sonali Deraniyagala.Alfred A. Knopf, $24.
《浪》(Wave)索纳丽·德伦尼亚加拉(Sonali Deraniyagala)著。阿尔弗莱德·A·克诺夫(Alfred A. Knopf)公司，24美元。
On the day after Christmas in 2004, Deraniyagala called her husband to the window of their hotel room in Sri Lanka. “I want to show you something odd,” she said. The ocean looked foamy and closer than usual. Within moments, it was upon them. Deraniyagala lost her husband, her parents and two young sons to the Indian Ocean tsunami. Her survival was miraculous, and so too is this memoir — unsentimental, raggedly intimate, full of fury.
2004年圣诞节翌日，在斯里兰卡的酒店房间里，德伦尼亚加拉把丈夫叫到窗边：“我想给你看点奇怪的东西。”大海泡沫翻涌，比平时更为迫近。瞬息之间，它就向他们扑来。德伦尼亚加拉在印度洋海啸中失去了丈夫、父母和两个年幼的儿子，她自己则奇迹般地活了下来，而这本回忆录亦是个奇迹——它清醒理智、粗糙直接、充满愤怒。