Jill Abramson has been dismissed as executive editor of The New York Times and is being replaced by Dean Baquet, the managing editor, an abrupt change in leadership at one of the nation’s largest daily newspapers.
全美规模领先的日报《纽约时报》的领导层突生变化，该报主编吉尔·艾布拉姆森(Jill Abramson)已被免职，替换她的人是执行主编迪恩·巴奎特(Dean Baquet)。
In announcing the sudden switch to a stunned newsroom Wednesday afternoon, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the publisher of the paper and the chairman of the Times Company, attributed the move to “an issue with management in the newsroom.” Her ouster, according to people in the company briefed on the decision, came after growing tension between Ms. Abramson and Mr. Sulzberger, and a decision by Ms. Abramson to try to hire a senior editor from outside the newspaper to share a co-managing editor title with Mr. Baquet.
周三下午，《纽约时报》发行人兼纽约时报公司董事长小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)对震惊不已的新闻编辑部宣布了这个突然的变动，称此次变动的原因是“新闻编辑部的某个管理问题”。据公司内部了解这一决定的人士透露，遭到免职之前，艾布拉姆森与苏兹伯格的关系日渐紧张，并曾决定设法从该报之外聘用一名高级编辑，和巴奎特联席担任执行主编。
Ms. Abramson, 60, a former investigative correspondent and Washington editor who was appointed to lead the newsroom in 2011, was the first woman to serve in the top job. She joined The Times in 1997.
60岁的艾布拉姆森曾担任调查记者和华盛顿分社社长，于2011年被任命为新闻编辑部的负责人，成为担任这一高级职务的首位女性。她是在1997年加入《纽约时报》的。
“I’ve loved my run at The Times,” she said in a statement. “I got to work with the best journalists in the world doing so much stand-up journalism,” she added, noting her appointment of many senior female editors as one of her achievements. She did not return phone calls seeking comment.
她在一则声明里说，“我热爱我在《纽约时报》的经历。”她还说，“我有幸和全球最棒的记者一起工作，做出了这么多独树一帜的新闻报道。”她提到自己任命了许多女性高级编辑，并把这一举措称为自己的成就之一。她没有回复我们寻求置评的电话。
Mr. Sulzberger informed senior editors of the change in a gathering in a conference room Wednesday afternoon, and shortly afterward addressed hundreds of staff members gathered on the newsroom floor and the staircases surrounding it. He began by praising Mr. Baquet, but declined to elaborate on the question he said was “on all of your minds” — the reason for the sudden switch. He said it was not about the journalism, the direction of the newsroom or the relationship between the newsroom and business sides of the paper.
周三下午，苏兹伯格在会议室的一次聚会中向高级编辑们通报了这一消息，此后不久，他向聚集在新闻编辑部楼层和周围楼梯上的数百名员工发表了讲话。他在开场白里称赞了巴奎特，但拒绝详细解释此次突变的原因，只是承认“大家心里都有这个问号”。他说，此次变动无关新闻报道，无关新闻编辑部的方针，也与编辑部和经营部门之间的关系无关。
“I chose to appoint a new leader for our newsroom because I believe that new leadership will improve some aspects of the management of the newsroom,” he said. “You will understand that there is nothing more that I want to say about this. We had an issue with management in the newsroom. And that’s what’s at the heart of this issue.”
“我决定为我们的新闻编辑部任命一名新领导，是因为我认为，新领导层会让编辑部管理工作的某些方面得到改进，”他说。“你们大家都会理解，这件事情我不想再说什么。我们编辑部的管理工作存在问题。这就是问题的核心。”
His vagueness on the precise reasons for the switch precipitated a swirl of rumors in a newsroom that was still trying to digest the news. But the people briefed on the process said the tension between Mr. Sulzberger and Ms. Abramson had steadily increased, most recently over criticisms of her leadership style. She had recently engaged a consultant to help her with that aspect of her job, but last week the decision was made to end her tenure.
苏兹伯格对这一变动的确切原因含糊其辞，导致仍在努力消化这一消息的编辑部谣言四起。但知情人士表示，苏兹伯格和艾布拉姆森之间的紧张关系不断加剧，最近又因为关于她领导风格的批评产生了不快。艾布拉姆森最近聘任了一名顾问，帮助她加强领导工作，但公司在上周做出了结束她任期的决定。
Mr. Baquet, 57, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter and a former editor of The Los Angeles Times, will become the first African-American executive editor at The New York Times. “It is an honor to be asked to lead the only newsroom in the country that is actually better than it was a generation ago,” he said, “one that approaches the world with wonder and ambition every day.”
57岁的巴奎特是一名普利策奖获奖记者，曾在《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)担任主编，如今将成为《纽约时报》首位非裔美籍主编。他说，“放眼美国，只有这个新闻编辑部真的做到了比一个世代之前更好，这是个每天都带着好奇与雄心走向世界的编辑部，公司让我来领导它，我感到非常荣幸。”