Viewed from one angle — from below, say, as you cower before the Imax screen, your 3-D glasses digging into the bridge of your nose, condensation from your Diet Coke dripping onto your leg — “Pacific Rim” looks a lot like other movies of its type. Dinosaurish creatures as big as skyscrapers do battle with equally gigantic robots on land and sea, pulverizing familiar cities and churning up geysers of spume. Human characters (some of whom are actually inside the giant robots) bark out catchphrases, spout fake science and express noble sentiments as they fight to save the planet. More than two hours of your life elapse before they do.
从某个角度看上去——比如说，蜷缩在Imax大屏幕前，鼻梁上架着3D眼镜，仰头看着银幕，冰镇健怡可乐外面的冷凝水珠滴到腿上——《环太平洋》(Pacific Rim)和其他同类型电影有很多相似之处。与摩天楼等高的恐龙状生物在陆地和海洋上与同样巨大的机器人作战，它们摧毁人们熟悉的城市，巨浪翻涌，泡沫飞溅。人类角色（有些人会呆在巨大的机器人里）咆哮着喊出给力的口号，滔滔不绝地讲解着瞎编的科学原理，表达着高贵的感情，为拯救这个星球而战。你生命中的两个多小时就这么流逝过去了。
So consider yourself warned. If you walk in expecting subtlety, or even novelty, you may find yourself more tormented than entertained. But “Pacific Rim” is also a reminder — either just in time or much too late — that this kind of movie can and should be fun. Some of those catchphrases are mildly clever. The lab coat mumbo-jumbo is amusing. The noble sentiments touch sweet chords. And who does not delight in seeing a robot punch a dinosaur every now and then — or pretty much constantly for two hours?
所以我警告过你了。如果你走进影院，指望看到精巧甚至是有新意的情节，最后得到的可能不像娱乐，倒像受罪。但《环太平洋》也是一个提醒——不管它是来得及时，还是来得太迟——这种类型的影片可以、也应当有趣。片中一些口号有点小聪明；披着科学外衣的晦涩台词很有意思；高贵的情感动人心弦；而且谁不喜欢看机器人时不时就把巨兽揍一顿，或者说基本上连揍两个小时呢？
The director, Guillermo del Toro (who wrote the script with Travis Beacham), is an unabashed genre enthusiast and a feverish inventor of fantastical worlds, enchanted by the visual and symbolic power of monsters and intoxicated by his own imagination. It is true that he has employed that imagination to more memorable effect in other movies, notably the wonderful “Hellboy” pictures and the shattering Spanish Civil War horror-allegories “Pan’s Labyrinth” and “The Devil’s Backbone.” Admirers of those films may find this one crude and overscale by comparison. Still, “Pacific Rim,” with its carefree blend of silliness and solemnity, is clearly the product of an ingenious and playful pop sensibility.
导演吉尔莫·德尔·托罗（Guillermo del Toro，剧本是他与特拉维斯·比彻姆[Travis Beacham]合写）是类型电影毫不掩饰的狂热拥趸与奇幻异世界的狂热创造者；他迷恋怪兽在视觉与象征意义上的强大力量，总是陶醉在自己的想象里。他的确利用这种想象力在其他电影中制作出了更加令人难忘的效果，特别是《地狱男爵》(Hellboy)中精彩的画面，以及《潘神的迷宫》(Pan’s Labyrinth)与《鬼童院》(The Devil’s Backbone)中关于惨痛的西班牙内战的恐怖预言。喜欢那些电影的人可能会觉得《环太平洋》相比之下粗糙而且过于庞大。但这部影片随意地融合了愚蠢与庄严，制作者显然有着交织天才与戏谑的流行文化敏感性。
“But Gipsy is analog!” This exclamation, though not immediately intelligible out of context (or in it, for that matter), is in some ways the key to the movie. A bit of explanation is in order, though I’m afraid it will not be as exhaustive or as breathless as the voice-over narration that begins the movie or the expository dialogue that pops up throughout. Gipsy is a Jaeger, one of the enormous metal bipeds built to fight off the Kaiju, horrible creatures who have popped up through the bottom of the Pacific Ocean via a portal to their native dimension.
“但‘流浪者’是模拟控制的！”脱离上下文来看，这个呼喊不是马上就能显示出其明智（其实放在当时的环境里也没有显示出来），但在某种意义上却是影片的关键。这里需要一点解释，尽管我担心自己的解释不会像片头画外音或者全片中不时冒出来的说明性对话那样详尽彻底或是令人紧张：“流浪者”是一台“机甲猎人”(Jaeger)——一种巨大的两足机器人，要与“怪兽”(Kaiju)作战。这些怪兽是非常恐怖的生物，它们通过太平洋海底的入口，从自己的空间来到地球。
Still with me? The Kaiju are, as alien invaders tend to be, quite hostile. They are also diabolically clever, evolving quickly in response to military attempts to defeat them. After a long war of attrition (dramatized in a precredit chunk that is almost a movie in itself), only a handful of Jaegers remain, concentrated in Hong Kong for a last stand against the enemy. Commanded by the wondrously named Stacker Pentecost (Idris Elba), the Jaeger pilots — who must work in pairs assisted by technology that links their brains — are a motley global crew. Our attention is particularly focused on Raleigh Becket (Charlie Hunnam) and Mako Mori (Rinko Kikuchi), who seem to have especially traumatic experiences with Kaiju in their pasts.
还能听明白吗？怪兽就是外星入侵者，充满敌意；而且极度聪明，人类试图打败它们，对它们发起军事攻击，但它们为了应变而迅速进化。经历了一场漫长的消耗战（在片头之前戏剧化地表现出来，几乎是一场戏中戏），只有极少数机甲猎人生还，它们聚集在香港，准备发起对敌人的最后一战。战役由有着惊人名字的史塔克·潘达考斯特（Stacker Pentecost，伊德瑞斯·艾尔巴[Idris Elba]饰）指挥，机甲猎人操纵者们来自全球各地，他们必须成对行动，两人的大脑用先进技术连接起来。我们的注意力会特别集中在莱利·贝特（Raleigh Becket，查理·汉纳姆[Charlie Hunnam]饰）与森真子（Mako Mori，菊地凛子饰）上，他们曾经与怪兽有过令人痛苦不堪的经历。
There is also an Australian father-son team (Max Martini and Rob Kazinsky) — Raleigh and the son, who are hard to tell apart, trade a few punches at one point — and a duo of manic, mismatched scientists (Charlie Day and Burn Gorman) for comic relief. Hellboy himself (that is, Ron Perlman) shows up as a local underworld figure, doing more for the film’s attitude than for its plot. Wearing dark glasses and metal-toed shoes and spouting Runyonesque gangster gibberish, he reminds you that “Pacific Rim” is, more than anything else, a cartoon.
此外还有一个澳大利亚的父子组合（马克斯·马蒂尼[Max Martini]与罗勃·卡辛斯基[Rob Kazinsky]饰），莱利和那个相貌与自己很像的儿子在片中还过了几招；以及两个一点都不般配的疯狂科学家（查理·戴[Charlie Day]和伯恩·戈曼[Burn Gorman]饰），这两个角色是为了增添喜剧效果。地狱男爵本人（也就是朗·普尔曼[Ron Perlman]）在片中饰演一个本地黑社会人物，这个角色主要是为了显示电影的态度，而不是为了推进情节。他戴着墨镜，穿着金属包头的鞋子，满嘴鲁恩尼式（指美国著名新闻人，专栏作者Damon Runyon——译注）的匪帮黑话，他的出现提醒你，《环太平洋》不过就是一部卡通片。
Which brings me back to the analog identity of Gipsy, which is able to keep fighting when some bad Kaiju mojo shuts down the fancy digital Jaeger. “Pacific Rim” is loaded with computer-generated imagery, but its soul is proudly mechanical. Its off-kilter sense of proportion harks back to the inspired models and stop-motion techniques of the late special-effects maestro Ray Harryhausen. Even in 3-D (which does not add much of interest), the images are composed of bright tones and blocky shapes, like old comic-book panels. And this future, for all the talk of “neural drift” and dimensional wormholes, is a world of tubes and rivets and pistons. Jules Verne and H. G. Wells would appreciate it.
回到“流浪者”的模拟身份，某些邪恶怪兽的魔力令数码控制的精巧机甲猎人失灵，而模拟控制的“流浪者”还能继续战斗。《环太平洋》中充满了由电脑制作的画面，但它的灵魂是骄傲的机械主义。那种比例失衡感让人想起已故特效大师雷·哈里豪森(Ray Harryhausen)的偶人与定格动画技术。就连使用3D效果的时候（其实3D并没有为影片增添多少趣味），画面都是由明亮的色调与各种形状的色块组成，有点像老式漫画的分格。在这个未来世界里，虽然有“神经元连接”和“异次元虫洞”，但仍然是管子、铆钉和活塞的天下。儒勒·凡尔纳(Jules Verne)和H·G·威尔斯(H. G. Wells)肯定会喜欢的。
The pleasures of “Pacific Rim,” in other words, are somewhat nostalgic, and maybe also regressive. This in itself is hardly unusual: most of the movies released by major studios from May to September cater to the childish impulses of the audience. But they also often aspire to be more than juvenile, puffing themselves up with money and fuzzy, heavy themes. Sometimes they succeed and find a measure of real grandeur. This summer, though, has so far largely been a parade of joyless bombast. In these circumstances Mr. del Toro’s exuberant nonsense comes as a relief.
换言之，观赏《环太平洋》的快乐某种程度上来自怀旧，或许也来自回归。这本身并没有什么特别：从5月到9月，各大公司发行的影片都旨在迎合观众们身上的童心一面。但这些公司也希望影片不仅仅停留在年少单纯的程度；它们为影片堆砌金钱，也堆砌含糊、沉重的主题。有时候这种做法会成功，能拍出真正华丽壮观的影片。但今年夏天，迄今为止，只带来一系列无聊的轰炸。在这种环境下，德尔·托罗热情洋溢的胡言乱语令人松了口气。