The Emmy-winning actor says the most novelistic character he’s ever played is Walter White. “The depth of this tragic story made it feel like the character reached Shakespearean level.”
艾美奖最佳男演员得主说沃尔特·怀特(Walter White)是他演过的最小说化的角色。“这个悲剧故事的深度令这个角色上升到了莎士比亚的高度。”
What’s the best book you’ve read so far this year?
今年你读过的最好的书是什么？
“Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream,” by Doris Kearns Goodwin. Real insight on the 36th president from someone who knew him well.
多丽丝·科恩斯·古德温(Doris Kearns Goodwin)的《林登·约翰逊与美国梦》(Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream)。从非常了解约翰逊的人入手，对这位美国第36任总统做了真正的剖析。
Describe your ideal reading experience (when, where, what, how).
说说你最理想的阅读体验吧（什么时候，在哪儿，读了什么，怎么读的）。
While shooting in Portland, Ore., I got the pleasure of discovering Powell’s Books, an enormous old bookstore (which I hope still exists) and stayed there the entire day. I just curled up in a comfy chair and read. They had a cafe in the store that I frequented. What joy. I suppose it helped that it was a rainy day. Rain creates a Pavlovian response in me to relax with a good book. I find that peace at our beach house, and created a cozy nook just for that purpose. I admit that I am driven to work and have to remind myself that reading is not an indulgence or a luxury. I have to improve that aspect of my life.
那是在俄勒冈的波特兰拍片子的时候，我愉快地发现了“鲍威尔的书”(Powell’s Books)，这是一家很大的旧书店（我希望它还没倒闭），于是就在那儿呆了一整天，蜷在一张舒服的椅子里看书。书店里还有家咖啡馆，我常去那里。这是何等的快乐。要下雨的话，就更好了。我总是本能地把下雨和放松读本好书联系起来。我在自家的海滩别墅里发现了这种平静的乐趣，为此还在房间里特意安排了一个舒服的角落。我承认自己忙于工作，得常常提醒自己阅读并不是什么放纵奢侈的事。我希望能改进自己生活中的这一面。
You recently recorded the audiobook version of Tim O’Brien’s “The Things They Carried.” Are you a fan of the book? Did performing it aloud change your perception of it?
你最近录制了蒂姆·奥布莱恩(Tim O’Brien)的《士兵的重负》(The Things They Carried)的有声书，你喜欢这本书吗，把它大声朗读出来有没有改变你对这本书的看法？
The main reason I agreed to do the audiobook was because I had wanted to read that book and never got around to it. So I thought, why not commit to this and then I will be guaranteed to read it? These questions have exposed an uncomfortable condition, in which I can make time for reading books if it’s “work related” but not for just my own personal pleasure. . . . I need to see a shrink.
我同意录这本有声书，最大的原因就是我以前就想看这本书，却一直没机会看。于是我想，干脆把它当做责任揽下来，这样我就肯定会去读它了。这些问题暴露出一种让人不舒服的情况——假如是“和工作相关的书”，那我就能挤出时间来看，但如果是为了个人快乐的书，那就……。我得去看心理医生了。
What was the experience of recording a book like for you? How was it different from the theater, film and television work you’ve done?
你觉得录有声书的体验怎么样？和演舞台剧、电影，电视剧有什么不一样吗？
I found narrating an audiobook very challenging, a task exacerbated by my suspected — but undiagnosed — mild dyslexia. Still, the experience was rewarding for the discovery that one, I did it; and two, that I won’t do another one; and three, that the strength of the story got me through the long recording sessions. It’s a real talent to convey emotions through your vocal choices and it takes real stamina. There are far better actors doing that work than myself.
我发现朗读有声书很有挑战性，我怀疑自己有读写困难症（不过没有确诊），于是这个任务就变得更加艰难了。不过这件事还是值得的，第一，我做到了；第二，我确认自己不会再去读有声书了；第三，这本书的精彩之处让我撑过了漫长的录音过程。通过声音传递情感是一种真正的天赋，也需要极大的毅力。有很多演员能比我做得更好。
Do you draw inspiration for your theater, television and film projects from the books you read?
从朗读这本书的过程里，你有没有为今后的舞台剧、电视和电影表演找到什么灵感？
A) Yes. The three main tools in an actor’s toolbox are personal experience, research and imagination. Richly drawn literary characters plant seeds in our brains for future reference. When developing a character we will unwittingly pull from those memories to form a whole character. . . . Then we selfishly claim them as original.
A) 是的，演员的工具箱里有三件东西：经历、研究和想象。浓墨重彩的文学人物在我们的大脑里播下种子，可以作为未来的参考。诠释一个角色的时候，我们就会不自觉地根据这些记忆，塑造一个完整的形象……，然后我们又自私地说这些形象来自我们的原创。
B) And vice versa. Anna Gunn, my wife on “Breaking Bad,” gave me a beautiful hardcover of “The Dangerous Book for Boys.” A perfect book to flip through to get back in touch with the little boy within. It inspired me to create a concept for a TV show. . . . Stay tuned.
B)反之亦然。在《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)里演我妻子的安娜·冈(Anna Gunn)送了我一本漂亮的精装书——《男孩的冒险书》(The Dangerous Book for Boys)。这本书可以随手翻来翻去，帮你找到自己内心那个小男孩。它给我灵感，创作了一个电视形象……。敬请期待。
You recently portrayed Lyndon Johnson at the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge in the play “All the Way,” a production that is headed for Broadway. Did you read any books on Johnson, aside, I presume, from Doris Kearns Goodwin, to prepare for the role? What books in particular informed your portrayal?
你最近在坎布里奇的美国剧团的《一直向前》(All the Way)中饰演林登·约翰逊，这出戏是要在百老汇上演的。为了准备这个角色，你读了什么和约翰逊有关的书吗，除了多丽丝·科恩斯·古德温(Doris Kearns Goodwin)那本书以外？什么书对你塑造这个角色特别有帮助？
In addition to Goodwin’s book, I plunged into Robert Caro’s “Master of the Senate,” Mark Updegrove’s “Indomitable Will,” and Michael Beschloss’s “Taking Charge.” And I must admit being curious about the new book, Roger Stone’s “The Man Who Killed Kennedy: The Case Against LBJ,” but I think I’ll save that for after the run of the play.
除了古德温那本书，我还特别喜欢罗伯特·卡洛(Robert Caro)的《参议院之主》(Master of the Senate)，马克·厄普德格罗夫(Mark Updegrove)的《不屈不挠的意志》(Indomitable Will)，以及迈克尔·贝施罗斯(Michael Beschloss)的《掌权》(Taking Charge)。还有，我得承认，对罗杰·斯通(Roger Stone)的《谋杀肯尼迪的人：诉讼林敦·约翰逊案》(The Man Who Killed Kennedy: The Case Against LBJ)这本新书我也挺好奇的，但我想等演完这部戏再来看它。
Of all the characters you’ve played across different media, which role felt to you the richest — the most, perhaps, novelistic?
在各种艺术形式里塑造的各种角色中，你觉得哪个角色最丰富，或者可以说，最小说化？ 
“Breaking Bad’s” Walter White. The depth of this tragic story made it feel like the character reached Shakespearean level.
《绝命毒师》里的沃尔特·怀特。这个悲剧故事的深度让这个角色上升到了莎士比亚的层次。
What kinds of stories are you drawn to? Any you steer clear of?
你最喜欢什么样的故事，不喜欢什么样的故事？
I like mysteries, thrillers and adventures best. I haven’t been interested in very many science fiction novels.
我最喜欢神秘小说、惊悚小说和冒险小说。对科幻小说一般兴趣不大。
What books might we be surprised to find on your shelves?
你书架上有什么会让人惊奇的书吗？
After my confession of not being attracted to sci-fi, one might be surprised to see the collection of Philip K. Dick’s short stories. Love those.
既然我说过自己不喜欢科幻小说。所以别人看到我有菲利普·K·迪克(Philip K. Dick)的短篇小说集，一定会很奇怪。我喜欢它们。
What book has had the greatest impact on you?
哪本书对你影响最大？
Nonfiction: “The Road Less Traveled.” Fiction: “Moby-Dick.”
非虚构类是《少有人走过的路》(The Road Less Traveled)；虚构类是《白鲸》(Moby-Dick)。
If you could meet any writer, dead or alive, who would it be? What would you want to know?
如果你能和一位作家见面，不管是在世的还是已经过世的，那么你想见谁？你想问对方点什么？
The “Wizard of Oz” novelist, L. Frank Baum. . .  If he really was a racist as is rumored. And if so, how could he write such a heartfelt story? Were the Munchkins a metaphor? Did he have the Wicked Witch of the West killed off because he hated green people?
我想见《绿野仙踪》(Wizard of Oz)的作者L·弗兰克·鲍姆(L. Frank Baum)…….我想知道他是不是如传言所说，是个种族主义者。如果真的是这样，那他怎么能写出这样真挚感人的故事来呢？莫奇金小矮人是不是一个隐喻？西方邪恶女巫被杀死了，是不是因为他讨厌环保人士的缘故？
What’s next on your reading list?
在你的阅读清单上，接下来要读什么书？
After “All the Way” is up and running, I will transition into reading a Dalton Trumbo biography by Bruce Cook. I have once again succumbed to perusing books for occupational purposes. But I love baseball and I’m eager to read “The Art of Fielding.” It’s on my bed stand right now, taunting me.
演完《一直向前》，我就要开始读布鲁斯·库克(Bruce Cook)的达尔顿·特朗勃(Dalton Trumbo)的传记了。我总是一再为了收藏的目的买书。但我喜欢棒球，也一直很想读《防守的艺术》(The Art of Fielding)，它现在就放在我的床头柜上，嘲笑着我。