David Carr, a writer who wriggled away from the demon of drug addiction to become an unlikely name-brand media columnist at The New York Times, and the star of a documentary about the newspaper, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 58.
《纽约时报》记者戴维·卡尔(David Carr)周四在曼哈顿去世。卡尔摆脱了吸毒的魔掌，令人难以想象地成为时报著名的媒体评论专栏作家，还是一部有关时报的纪录片中的明星。他享年58岁。
Mr. Carr collapsed in The Times newsroom, where he was found shortly before 9 p.m. He was taken to St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
晚上将近9点时，卡尔被人发现瘫倒在时报编辑部。他被送到圣路加-罗斯福医院，在那里他被宣布死亡。
Earlier in the evening, he moderated a panel discussion about the film “Citizenfour” with its principal subject, Edward J. Snowden; the film’s director, Laura Poitras; and Glenn Greenwald, a journalist.
当晚早些时候，他主持了关于影片《第四公民》(Citizenfour)的小组讨论，小组成员包括影片的主题人物爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)、影片的导演劳拉·普瓦特拉斯(Laura Poitras)，以及记者格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)。
Mr. Carr wrote about cultural subjects for The Times; he initiated the feature known as The Carpetbagger, a regular report on the news and nonsense from the red carpet during awards season. He championed offbeat movies like “Juno,” with Ellen Page, and he interviewed stars both enduring and evanescent — Woody Harrelson, Neil Young, Michael Cera.
卡尔为时报撰写有关文化题材的文章；他创建了“地毯走红”(Carpetbagger)栏目，定期报道颁奖季来自红地毯的新闻和荒唐消息。他支持过标新立异的电影，比如艾伦·佩姬(Ellen Page)主演的《朱诺》(Juno)，他采访过的电影明星既有经久不衰的，也有瞬息即逝的，比如伍迪·哈瑞尔森(Woody Harrelson)、尼尔·杨(Neil Young)、迈克尔·塞拉(Michael Cera)。
More recently, however, he was best known for The Media Equation, a Monday column in The Times that analyzed news and developments in publishing, television, social media — for which he was an early evangelist — and other mass communications platforms. His plain-spoken style was sometimes blunt, and searingly honest about himself. The effect was both folksy and sophisticated, a voice from a shrewd and well-informed skeptic.
然而，最近一段时间，他“媒体分析”(The Media Equation)的文章最广为人知，这些文章刊登在周一的时报专栏版，分析新闻和出版业的发展、电视和社交媒体（他曾是早期宣传社交媒体的人），以及其他大众传播平台。他率直的风格有时直截了当，但总不负自己执着的诚实。他的文章既朴实热情，又深刻奥妙，是既精明又消息灵通的怀疑者的声音。
“We want our anchors to be both good at reading the news and also pretending to be in the middle of it,” he wrote on Monday in the wake of revelations that the NBC anchor Brian Williams had lied about being in a helicopter under fire in Iraq in 2003.
“我们要求我们的主播既善于宣读新闻，也会假装身在其中，”他本周一写道，这是在NBC主播布莱恩·威廉姆斯(Brian Williams)被揭发曾谎报自己2003年在伊拉克乘坐的直升机遭受炮火袭击之后。
“That’s why, when the forces of man or Mother Nature whip up chaos, both broadcast and cable news outlets are compelled to ship the whole heaving apparatus to far-flung parts of the globe, with an anchor as the flag bearer. We want our anchors to be everywhere, to be impossibly famous, globe-trotting, hilarious, down-to-earth, and above all, trustworthy. It’s a job description that no one can match.”
“这就是为什么，当人或大自然的力量制造了混乱时，广播和有线电视新闻媒体都迫不亟待地把大批沉重设备运到地球各个遥远的地方，还派去一位主播当旗手。我们希望我们的主播无处不在，具有难以置信的知名度，还要周游列国，能令人捧腹，又扎扎实实，而且，首先要值得信任。这是一个无人能匹配的职位描述。”
In a statement, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr., The Times’s publisher and chairman said: “David Carr was one of the most gifted journalists who has ever worked at The New York Times.
时报的出版人和董事长小阿瑟·奥克斯·苏兹伯格(Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr.)在一份声明中说：“戴维·卡尔是曾经供职于《纽约时报》的人中最有天赋的记者之一。”
“He combined formidable talent as a reporter with acute judgment to become an indispensable guide to modern media. But his friends at The Times and beyond will remember him as a unique human being — full of life and energy, funny, loyal and lovable. An irreplaceable talent, he will be missed by everyone who works for The Times and everyone who reads it.”
“他把强大的报道才能与灵敏的判断力结合起来，成为现代传媒不可缺少的指南。但是，在时报和其他地方与他共过事的朋友们对他的记忆将是他独一无二的性格——生气勃勃、充满乐趣、忠诚可爱。他有着无可替代的天赋，时报的所有人员和读者都将怀念他。”
Dean Baquet, The Times’s executive editor, informed the staff of Mr. Carr’s death in an email on Thursday night.
时报执行主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)周四夜间在一封电邮中把卡尔的死讯通报给员工。
Mr. Carr, he wrote “was the finest media reporter of his generation, a remarkable and funny man who was one of the leaders of our newsroom.”
他写道：卡尔“是他那一代人中最优秀的报道媒体的记者，他是个非凡且有趣的人，是我们编辑部的领导人之一。”
Mr. Baquet added: “He was our biggest champion, and his unending passion for journalism and for truth will be missed by his family at The Times, by his readers around the world and by people who love journalism.”
巴奎补充说：“他是我们最大的吹鼓手，他对新闻和真相的无休止的激情将永远留在他时报大家庭成员的心中、留在世界各地读者的心中，以及留在热爱新闻的人们心中。”
Mr. Carr’s rise to a prominent position at The Times is all the more remarkable for the depths from which he rose.
卡尔能从他一度陷入的深渊，上升到时报的显著位置，这更令人瞩目。
As he chronicled in his 2008 memoir, “The Night of the Gun,” by the late 1980s, he was addicted to crack cocaine and living with a woman who was both a drug dealer and the mother of his twin daughters, and one night shortly after the girls were born he left them in a car while he went into a house to score some coke from a dealer named Kenny.
正如他在2008年的回忆录《枪之夜》(The Night of the Gun)中所记载的，上世纪80年代末，他曾沉迷于可卡因，与一个既是毒品贩子、又是他双胞胎女儿的母亲的女人生活在一起。两个女儿出生后不久的一个夜晚，他把她们留在一辆汽车里，自己走进一个房子，从一位名叫肯尼(Kenny)的毒品贩子那里购买可卡因。
“Kenny’s lip-licking coke rap was more ornate, somehow more satisfying, than that of most of the dealers I worked with,” Mr. Carr wrote as part of a horrifying confession. “His worldview was all black helicopters and white noise — the whispering, unseen others who would one day come for us. It kept me on my toes.
“肯尼叫卖的可卡因令人垂涎，看上去更富丽堂皇，不知什么原因，比和我打过交道的绝大多数毒品贩子的相比，更能满足欲望，”卡尔在一篇令人震惊的忏悔录中这样写道。“他的世界观全是黑色直升机和白噪声——那种看不见、但总有一天会把我们带走的那些人的低语。这让我保持着警惕。”
“But tonight I had company. I certainly couldn’t bring the twins in. Even in the gang I ran with, coming through the doors of the dope house swinging two occupied baby buckets was not done. Sitting there in the gloom of the front seat, the car making settling noises against the chill, I decided that my teeny twin girls would be safe, that God would look after them while I did not.”
“但这个晚上我有陪伴。我当然不能把双胞胎带进来。即使在我出入的团伙中，带着两个装着婴儿的安全椅进入毒品屋的事，也是没有人干的。我坐在昏暗的驾驶座上，汽车在寒冷的夜晚发出噪声，我决定，我新出生的双胞胎女儿不会有问题，在我离开的那会儿，上帝会照顾她们。”
That, evidently, was the bottom. A few months later, Mr. Carr was in a treatment program, and by 2008, he could look back and write: “Today I am a genuine, often pleasant person, I do solid work for a reputable organization and have, over the breadth of time, proved to be an attentive father and husband.”
那显然是他人生的最低点。几个月后，卡尔参加了一个治疗项目，到2008年时他已浪子回头，他这样写道：“如今，我是一个真正的、常常令人愉快的人，我为一个有信誉的机构做扎实的工作，随着时间的流失，我也证明自己是一个关心家庭的父亲和丈夫。”
Mr. Carr, who joined The Times in 2002 as a business reporter covering magazine publishing, quickly became one of the paper’s more distinctive bylines.
卡尔于2002年起在时报工作，开始是作为报道杂志出版业的商业记者，很快成为本报最有特色的署名人之一。
A cancer survivor with a throaty croak of a speaking voice and a storklike posture, he was a curmudgeonly personality whose intellectual cockiness and unwillingness to suffer fools found their way into his prose. Mr. Carr became the embodiment of The Times as the surprise scene stealer of a 2011 documentary about the paper, “Page One: Inside The New York Times,” in which Mr. Carr is seen not only reporting stories but defending the honor of the paper against offhand insults.
他是一位癌症幸存者，说起话来声音低沉沙哑，有着直挺挺的身材。他的坏脾气性格、智力上的过分自信，以及不愿与蠢人相处的态度在文章中常有所表现。在2011年的一部关于时报的纪录片《头版：纽约时报内幕》(Page One: Inside the New York Time)中，卡尔意外地抢了镜头，成为时报的化身，人们在片中不仅看到卡尔如何报道新闻，还看到他在面对漫不经心的侮辱时，如何捍卫时报的荣誉。
“The moviemakers must have felt that they had found their Jimmy Breslin or their Hildy Johnson (the real and fictional archetypes of the crusty, hard-living journalist) when they found him,” Michael Kinsley wrote in reviewing the film (not terribly favorably) for The Times. “Mr. Carr is widely admired for his reporting, his intelligence and his Tough Old Coot routine.”
迈克尔·金斯利(Michael Kinsley)在为时报撰写的（不是非常有利的）影评中写道，“电影制片人一定觉得，他们发现他时，找到了自己的吉米·布莱斯林(Jimmy Breslin)或自己的希尔迪·约翰逊(Hildy Johnson)（这两人分别是拼命记者的真实和虚构的典型）。卡尔以他的报道、他的智慧，以及他倔老笨的花招而广受推崇。”
David Michael Carr was born Sept. 8, 1956, in Minneapolis, and grew up just outside the city in Hopkins, Minn. His father, John, owned men’s clothing stores, and his mother, Joan, was a schoolteacher.
戴维·迈克尔·卡尔于1956年9月8日在明尼阿波利斯出生，在该市郊外的明尼苏达州霍普金斯镇长大，他的父亲约翰曾拥有一个男装店，他的母亲琼是一名教师。
He graduated from the University of Minnesota, where he majored in psychology and journalism. He worked for an alternative weekly, Twin Cities Reader and later, Washington City Paper, before moving to New York. He wrote about media for a website, Inside.com, and before joining The Times, was a contributing writer for publications including The Atlantic Monthly and New York magazine.
他毕业于明尼苏达大学，专业是心理学和新闻学。搬到纽约之前，他曾为非主流周刊《双城读者》(Twin Cities Reader)工作，也在《华盛顿城市报》(Washington City Paper)工作过。他曾为Inside.com网站撰写有关媒体的文章，在加入时报之前，担任过包括《大西洋月刊》和《纽约杂志》在内的一些出版物的特约撰稿人。