It’s not too late.
现在还为时不晚。
“Sherlock” is returning to PBS on Sunday for a third season, and for those who haven’t watched it, it is worth starting now, and even catching up with the first two seasons (at PBS.org or Netflix.)
1月19日，《神探夏洛克》(Sherlock)的第三季在美国公共电视台(PBS)开始上映。对于那些还没有机会一睹为快的观众们，这一季非常值得一看，而现在也是在PBS.org和Netflix网站上重温前两季的好时机。
It would be unfair to say that this BBC production is the best Sherlock Holmes ever: There have been so many, and so many great ones. But it is certainly the right one for right now.
要说这部BBC出品的电视剧是史上最好的以夏洛克·福尔摩斯(Sherlock Holmes)为主人公的影视剧作品可能有些不大公平：毕竟，在无数的作品里，杰作比比皆是。但是这部电视剧却毫无疑问的迎合了我们这个时代。
There is no easy explanation for why this Arthur Conan Doyle character has such a lasting hold on the public imagination; possibly only Dracula has had as many incarnations. And that may be a clue to the detective’s enduring popularity.
很难解释亚瑟·柯南·道尔(Arthur Conan Doyle)笔下的这个人物为何会对大众有这么持久的吸引力。福尔摩斯这个形象在影视剧中出现的次数之多可能只有吸血鬼德库拉伯爵(Dracula)才能与之相当。这可能也给我们一个启示，揭示这位侦探长盛不衰的秘密。
Vampires, after all, supposedly symbolize uncontrolled desire and repressed sexuality. It could be that more than almost any other sleuth, Sherlock Holmes represents logic and the unapologetic triumph of reason over emotion. And especially in this age of ambivalence and subjectivity, a purely cerebral hero is particularly welcome.
毕竟，吸血鬼被认为是象征了无节制的欲望和压抑的性欲。而没有任何其他侦探形象比福尔摩斯更能体现逻辑思维的力量。在福尔摩斯身上，理智总是毫不留情面地战胜情感。在我们这个道德判断多元、主观感想当道的时代，一位纯粹以智力取胜的英雄会尤其受到欢迎。
“Sherlock” stars Benedict Cumberbatch and was created by Steven Moffat and Mark Gatiss (“Dr. Who”), and they, of course, depict the hero as freakishly smart and oddly talented. This Sherlock is also lissome, spirited and briskly energetic; most important, the famous detective isn’t turned inside out to suit current, navel-gazing fashions.
《神探夏洛克》的主演是本尼迪克特·康伯巴奇(Benedict Cumberbatch)，编剧是斯蒂文·莫法特(Steven Moffat)和马克·加迪斯(Mark Gatiss)（两位也是《神秘博士》[Doctor Who]的主创人员），他们自然将主人公演绎成聪明绝顶而怪诞的天才。但这个福尔摩斯同时又身材高挑，举止优雅，活力十足；更重要的是，这位大名鼎鼎的侦探并未过度暴露自己而迎合当今社会的窥视癖好。
Sherlock jokes about his chilly British upbringing with his older brother, Mycroft (played by Mr. Gatiss), but his psychic deprivations and sexual orientation go largely unexplored. When Sherlock tells Watson (Martin Freeman) “the game is on,” it’s an invitation to help him solve the case, not explore his innermost feelings. (Though it would be funny if Sherlock said it while turning on the World Cup finals.)
福尔摩斯可以拿自己和哥哥迈克罗夫特（加迪斯饰演）两人冷冰冰的英国式教养来开玩笑，但对自己的心理剥夺症状和性取向则鲜有触及。当福尔摩斯对华生（由马丁·弗里曼[Martin Freeman]扮演）说“游戏开始了”的时候，他是邀请后者与他共同破案，而不是探索自己内心深处的情感（当然，如果他打开电视看足球世界杯决赛时说这话，那就好玩了）。
Particularly on television, it’s almost impossible to find another interesting crime solver who isn’t driven by childhood wounds or crippling psychological flaws or fixations. People are always trying to humanize Dracula; they too often try to do the same to Sherlock Holmes.
尤其是在电视剧中，几乎不可能再找到另外一位如同福尔摩斯般有趣的神探形象：他的动力来源并非某种童年创伤、严重的心理缺陷或执着观念。人们总是试图把吸血鬼德拉库拉这个形象人性化，此前种种版本的福尔摩斯也往往有这种倾向。
“Elementary,” on CBS, is a case in point: It’s a New Age variation on the persona, positing a modern-day Holmes who is a recovering drug addict with daddy issues. His Watson is a doctor, played by Lucy Liu, who was hired by his father to serve as Holmes’s companion-watchdog.
正在CBS上播出的剧集《基本演绎法》(Elementary)就是一例。这是“新世纪”(New Age)版本的现代福尔摩斯，在剧中他是一个治疗中的毒品成瘾者，与自己的父亲感情不睦。这个版本里的华生则是刘玉玲扮演的女医生，被他的父亲雇来作为他的搭档兼看护。
“House,” the old Fox show that starred Hugh Laurie as a doctor, was also a reworking of Sherlock Holmes — and possibly a little of Dr. Joseph Bell, a surgeon who was Conan Doyle’s real-life model. The show reveled in House’s deductive diagnoses but couldn’t leave the hero’s cool superiority alone: House was physically handicapped and deep down a mess. By series end, he was cracking up more than he was cracking cases.
而由休·劳瑞(Hugh Larrie)扮演的福克斯电视网剧集《豪斯医生》(House)则是另一种改编版的福尔摩斯——有可能还有更多的约瑟夫·贝尔医生(Joseph Bell)的成分，后者是柯南·道尔创造福尔摩斯的现实生活原型。此剧将豪斯医生的推理诊断能力描写得出神入化，但对主人公的描绘并未停留在“冷峻高明”的层面：豪斯医生是个瘸子，心理世界则乱成一团。到了剧集大结局的时候，他自己的心理问题已经远多于他成功诊断的病例。
The flawed detective is so common that it’s become a television cliché. The heroes of “The Mentalist,” “The Following” and “True Detective” are almost as consumed by their own demons as they are by clues. (One noteworthy exception to that rule is a British show, “Above Suspicion,” created by Lynda La Plante, who was also responsible for “Prime Suspect”; it’s now available on Acorn.tv, an online channel that specializes in British series.)
有自身缺陷的侦探形象过于泛滥，成了电视剧的俗套。《超感警探》(The Mentalist)，《杀手信徒》(The Following)和《真探》(True Detective)中的主人公们被心魔困扰的程度不亚于他们对案件线索的纠结（由《头号嫌疑》[Prime Suspect]的编剧琳达·拉·普朗特[Lynda La Plante]创作的《毋庸置疑》[Above Suspicion]倒是一个值得一提的例外 。该剧现在正在专门放映英剧的网上电视频道Acorn.tv上播出）。
PBS’s “Sherlock,” set in contemporary London, ingeniously converts 19th-century technology to today’s world of smartphones, blogs, surveillance cameras and GPS, without adopting the attendant self-absorption and psychobabble.
PBS的《神探夏洛克》的故事发生在现代伦敦。该剧极具创意地把原著中19世纪的技术手段变换成了现代社会里的智能手机，博客，监控摄像和卫星定位，但是却摒弃了这些现代科技所带来的过分自我关注和心理呓语。
This Sherlock could be turned into a textbook psychiatric case, but the show allows him to be merely eccentric, bracingly tactless and haughtily free of introspection, though he does crave cocaine when bored and sometimes turns morose if he can’t figure out a clue. When people question his sang-froid, calling him a psychopath, Holmes corrects them by cheerfully describing himself as a “high-functioning sociopath.”
这个版本的夏洛克可以成为一个经典的心理分析案例，但是剧本却没有这么做。他仅仅是性情古怪，直率得甚至不得体，而又自视甚高，从不反躬自省。无聊时他会有吸食可卡因的念想，而找不到线索会让他郁闷乖张。旁人说他是个冷血精神变态者，才能在任何情况下都保持冷静沉着。而他却兴高采烈地纠正他们，说自己是个“高效的反社会人士。”
“Sherlock” is a huge hit in Britain — Season 3 drew more viewers there than “Downton Abbey” did — and it’s not hard to see why. Holmes has been translated into dozens of languages and has universal appeal, but he is, above all, a reassuring, even flattering figure to the British. He is the Englishman supreme, and, like “Downton Abbey,” an exemplar of a more confident, masterful age.
《神探夏洛克》在英国取得了巨大成功。观看第三季的观众比观看《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)的还要多。想要理解该剧在英国的成功并不困难。《福尔摩斯》被翻译成了几十种语言，在全世界都有吸引力。但是，福尔摩斯归根到底对英国人来说是一个给他们带来安全感，甚至有自我美化之嫌的人物形象。他是最精英的英国绅士。就像《唐顿庄园》里的人物一样，他是一个更加自信的、处于鼎盛时代的大英帝国的楷模。
In Season 3, Sherlock’s emotional detachment is put to the highest test: He reunites with Watson after a two-year absence (he had his reasons), and then is best man at Watson’s wedding.
在第三季里，夏洛克不近人情的性格受到了最为严峻的挑战。在消失了两年后（为什么这样做，他有自己的理由），他重回伦敦和华生相聚。之后，他又成了华生婚礼上的伴郎。
Sherlock expresses genuine friendship and even warmth (there are a few soppy moments, including one with Mycroft), but the show resists turning him into a basket case or, worse, a normal human being. The wedding episode is a gripping and even hilarious tour de force: Sherlock solves two crimes while delivering a long, serpentine wedding toast.
夏洛克在这一季里表现出了发自内心的友情，甚至有时会显得温情脉脉（有几个场景，包括和哥哥迈克罗夫特的一场戏，表达了细腻的情感）。但是编剧并没有把他塑造成一个沉溺于感情世界不能自拔的人，也没有——这要更糟——把他变成一个正常人。婚礼的那一集编剧颇为花费心思，情节既扑朔迷离又让人捧腹：夏洛克做了一个迂回冗长的婚礼祝酒词发言，并在讲话的同时破解了两个罪案。
Episodes echo, rather than follow, plots from the original stories, so that “A Study in Scarlet” becomes “A Study in Pink,” and Conan Doyle’s fiendish master blackmailer, Charles Augustus Milverton, becomes Charles Augustus Magnussen, a Murdoch-esque tabloid press lord.
《神探夏洛克》的剧集安排回应了原著情节，而并不是照搬。《血字的研究》在剧里成了《粉色的研究》。柯南·道尔原著里邪恶的勒索专家查尔斯·奥古斯塔斯·米沃尔顿成了查尔斯·奥古斯塔斯·马格努森——一个默多克式的八卦小报报业集团大佬。
The writers take fanciful liberties with Conan Doyle’s work, mixing together strands from different stories and often concocting whole new tangents. And, oddly enough, some of the more improbable elements in the books — like Moriarty, the archenemy who runs a vast criminal network — have more resonance in a post-Sept. 11 world.
编剧们对柯南·道尔的原著作出了别出心裁的改编，把不同故事里的元素糅合到一起，但也经常会掺进原著中没有的创新。奇怪的是，原著中一些看似不可思议的东西——比如福尔摩斯的头号敌人、庞大犯罪组织的头脑莫里阿蒂(Moriarty) ——在剧里的后9·11世界中倒是显得真实可信。
The show’s verve is reminiscent of that of a 2005 BBC series, “ShakespeaRe-Told,” in which different directors retold classic plays in modern settings: The hero of “Macbeth” is an ambitious chef in a fancy three-star restaurant; in “Much Ado About Nothing,” Benedick and Beatrice are co-anchors of a news show in Wessex. Like those fractured Shakespeare tales, “Sherlock” is inventive and humorously far-fetched, but always in the spirit of the original work.
《神探夏洛克》的改编方式与BBC于2005年推出的电视剧集《重述莎士比亚》(ShakespeaRe-Told) 一脉相承。《重述莎士比亚》由不同的导演把经典莎剧搬到了现代：《麦克白》的主人公是一位三星餐馆里野心勃勃的大厨；在《无事生非》中，班狄克(Benedick)和碧翠丝(Beatrice)是维萨克斯一档新闻节目的搭档主持人。像这些被拆解了的莎士比亚故事一样，《神探夏洛克》充满创新，情节幽默地出人意料，但是却从来没有偏离原著的精髓。
“The game is never over, John,” Sherlock sternly tells Watson at a rare, mournful moment of doubt. And that is a vow “Sherlock” intends to keep, at least for another season.
“游戏从来没有结束，约翰，”在本季中某个罕见的充满伤感和怀疑的场景，夏洛克这样对华生说道。而这也是《神探夏洛克》对观众立下的誓言——至少在这新的一季中。