Gabriel García Márquez, the Colombian novelist whose “One Hundred Years of Solitude” established him as a giant of 20th-century literature, died on Thursday at his home in Mexico City. He was 87.
因作品《百年孤独》(One Hundred Years of Solitude)奠定了20世纪文学巨匠地位的哥伦比亚小说家加夫列尔·加西亚·马尔克斯(Gabriel García Márquez)于周四在墨西哥城的家中溘然长逝，享年87岁。
Cristóbal Pera, his former editor at Random House, confirmed the death. Mr. García Márquez learned he had lymphatic cancer in 1999, and a brother said in 2012 that he had developed senile dementia.
他生前的编辑、兰登书屋(Random House)的克里斯托瓦尔·佩拉(Cristóbal Pera)确认了他的死讯。加西亚·马尔克斯于1999年得知自己罹患淋巴癌，他的弟弟在2012年表示，他已患上老年失智症。
Mr. García Márquez, who received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1982, wrote fiction rooted in a mythical Latin American landscape of his own creation, but his appeal was universal. His books were translated into dozens of languages. He was among a select roster of canonical writers — Dickens, Tolstoy and Hemingway among them — who were embraced both by critics and by a mass audience.
加西亚·马尔克斯在1982年荣膺诺贝尔文学奖( Nobel Prize for Literature)，他创作的小说根植于他自创的一片虚构的拉丁美洲大地，然而却具有倾倒全球的魅力。他的著作被翻译成数十种语言。他已经跻身受评论家和读者大众共同认可的作家正典，与狄更斯(Dickens)、托尔斯泰(Tolstoy)和海明威(Hemingway)等人比肩。
“Each new work of his is received by expectant critics and readers as an event of world importance,” the Swedish Academy of Letters said in awarding him the Nobel.
瑞典文学院(Swedish Academy of Letters)在向他颁发诺贝尔文学奖时说，“他的每部新作一面世，都被翘首以待的评论家和读者视为世界级的重大事件。”
Mr. García Márquez was a master of the literary genre known as magical realism, in which the miraculous and the real converge. In his novels and stories, storms rage for years, flowers drift from the skies, tyrants survive for centuries, priests levitate and corpses fail to decompose. And, more plausibly, lovers rekindle their passion after a half-century apart.
加西亚·马尔克斯是被称为魔幻现实主义的文学流派中的大师，该流派把魔幻和现实融为了一体。在他的小说和故事里，暴雨经年肆虐，花朵从天而落，暴君历经数个世纪不死，神甫悬在半空，尸体不会腐败。有的较为可信一些，比如情侣在半个世纪的分离后重燃爱火。
Magical realism, he said, sprang from Latin America’s history of vicious dictators and romantic revolutionaries, of long years of hunger, illness and violence. In accepting his Nobel, Mr. García Márquez said: “Poets and beggars, musicians and prophets, warriors and scoundrels, all creatures of that unbridled reality, we have had to ask but little of imagination. For our crucial problem has been a lack of conventional means to render our lives believable.”
他说，魔幻现实主义起源于充斥着残暴的独裁者和浪漫的革命者的拉丁美洲历史，这是一段绵延多年的饥饿史、疾病史和暴力史。在获奖时，加西亚·马尔克斯说，“这个异乎寻常的现实中的所有人，诗人和乞丐、音乐家和预言家、武士和恶棍，我们并不需要花太多想象力。因为我们的关键问题是缺乏让我们的生活显得可信的常规手段。”
Like many Latin American intellectuals and artists, Mr. García Márquez felt impelled to speak out on the political issues of his day. He viewed the world from a left-wing perspective, bitterly opposing Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the right-wing Chilean dictator, and unswervingly supporting Fidel Castro in Cuba. Mr. Castro became such a close friend that Mr. García Márquez showed him drafts of his unpublished books.
和许多拉丁美洲的知识分子及艺术家一样，加西亚·马尔克斯自觉必须直言谈论他那个年代的政治问题。他从左翼的角度来看世界，强烈反对智利右翼独裁者奥古斯托·皮诺切特(Augusto Pinochet)将军，坚定地支持古巴统治者菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)。卡斯特罗成了加西亚·马尔克斯的朋友，关系密切到他会向卡斯特罗展示自己尚未出版的书稿。
No draft had more impact than the one for “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” the book that in 1967 would vault Mr. García Márquez onto the world stage. He later authorized an English translation, by Gregory Rabassa. In Spanish or English, readers were tantalized from its opening sentences:
没有比《百年孤独》更有影响力的书稿了，这本书在1967年把加西亚·马尔克斯推上了世界舞台。他后来授权格雷戈里·拉巴萨(Gregory Rabassa)将《百年孤独》译为英文。不管是西班牙语版还是英语版，这本书的开头都让读者着迷：
“Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Col. Aureliano Buendía was to remember that distant afternoon when his father took him to discover ice. At that time Macondo was a village of 20 adobe houses built on the bank of a river of clear water that ran along a bed of polished stones, which were white and enormous, like prehistoric eggs. The world was so recent that many things lacked names, and in order to indicate them it was necessary to point.”
“多年以后，面对行刑队，奥雷里亚诺·布恩迪亚上校将会回想起父亲带他去见识冰块的那个遥远的下午。那时的马孔多是一个二十户人家的村落，泥巴和芦苇盖成的屋子沿河岸排开，湍急的河水清澈见底，河床里卵石洁白光滑宛如史前巨蛋。世界新生伊始，许多事物还没有名字，提到的时候尚需用手指指点点。”（此处译文选用南海出版公司2011年6月出版的《百年孤独》，范晔译。——译注）
“One Hundred Years of Solitude” would sell tens of millions of copies. The Chilean poet Pablo Neruda called it “the greatest revelation in the Spanish language since ‘Don Quixote.’ ” The novelist William Kennedy hailed it as “the first piece of literature since the Book of Genesis that should be required reading for the entire human race.”
《百年孤独》的销量达到了数千万册。智利诗人巴勃罗·聂鲁达(Pablo Neruda)称此书是“自《堂吉诃德》(Don Quixote)之后西班牙语世界最伟大的一次启示。”小说家威廉·肯尼迪(William Kennedy)盛赞它是“《创世记》(Book of Genesis)之后首部全人类都该被要求阅读的文学作品”。
Mr. García Márquez was rattled by the praise. He grew to hate “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” he said in interviews, because he feared his subsequent work would not measure up to it in readers’ eyes. He need not have worried. Almost all his 15 other novels and short-story collections were lionized by critics and devoured by readers.
赞誉让加西亚·马尔克斯惶恐。他在采访中说他逐渐对《百年孤独》心生恨意，因为他担心在读者眼里，后续作品达不到前者的高度。他无须担心。他其余的15本小说和短篇小说集几乎全都被评论家奉为名作，被读者如饥似渴地阅读。
Lived With His Grandparents
和外祖父母住在一起
Gabriel García Márquez was born in Aracataca, a small town near Colombia’s Caribbean coast, on March 6, 1927, the eldest child of Luisa Santiaga Márquez and Gabriel Elijio García. His father, a postal clerk, telegraph operator and itinerant pharmacist, could barely support his wife and 12 children; Gabriel, the eldest, spent his early childhood living in the large, ramshackle house of his maternal grandparents. The house influenced his writing; it seemed inhabited, he said, by the ghosts his grandmother conjured in the stories she told.
加夫列尔·加西亚·马尔克斯于1927年3月6日出生在哥伦比亚的加勒比海滨小镇阿拉卡塔卡，他是路易莎·圣地亚加·马尔克斯(Luisa Santiaga Márquez)和加夫列尔·埃里西奧·加西亚(Gabriel Elijio García)的长子。他的父亲曾当过邮差、电报员和流动药剂师，勉强养活妻子和12个孩子；幼年时期，长子加西亚和外祖父母一起住在破旧不堪的大房子里。这栋房子影响了他的创作；他说，外祖母在她讲的故事里杜撰的鬼魂，似乎就住在房子里。
Mr. García Márquez moved to Bogotá as a teenager. He studied law there but never received a degree; he turned instead to journalism. The late 1940s and early ’50s in Colombia were a period of civil strife known as La Violencia that resulted in as many as 300,000 deaths. La Violencia would become the background for several of his novels.
十来岁时，加西亚·马尔克斯搬到了波哥大。他在那里学习法律，不过从未获得学位；他转而攻读新闻专业。上世纪40年代末到50年代初，哥伦比亚经历了被称为“暴力时期”(La Violencia)的内战，这场内战导致了30万人丧生。“暴力时期”后来成了马尔克斯多部小说的背景。
Mr. García Márquez eked out a living writing for newspapers in Cartagena and then Barranquilla, where he lived in the garret of a brothel and saw a future in literature. “It was a bohemian life: finish at the paper at 1 in the morning, then write a poem or a short story until about 3, then go out to have a beer,” he said in an interview in 1996. “When you went home at dawn, ladies who were going to Mass would cross to the other side of the street for fear that you were either drunk or intending to mug or rape them.”
加西亚·马尔克斯曾靠为报社写稿谋生，先是在卡塔赫纳，后来又到巴兰基亚。在巴兰基亚，他住在一家妓院的阁楼里，产生了从事文学的想法。他在1996年接受采访时说，“那是一种波西米亚式的生活：凌晨1点完成报纸的工作，然后写一首诗，或者一个短篇小说，写到3点左右，然后出去喝一杯啤酒。当你在晨光中回家时，去做弥撒的女士们会躲开你，走到马路的另一侧，她们害怕你喝醉了，或是要抢劫或强奸她们。”
He read intensely — the Americans Hemingway, Faulkner, Twain and Melville; the Europeans Dickens, Tolstoy, Proust, Kafka and Virginia Woolf.
他的阅读涉猎广泛——美国的海明威(Hemingway)、福克纳(Faulkner)、马克·吐温(Twain)和梅尔维尔(Melville)；欧洲的狄更斯(Dickens)、托尔斯泰(Tolstoy)、普鲁斯特(Proust)、卡夫卡(Kafka)和弗吉尼亚·伍尔夫(Virginia Woolf)。
“I cannot imagine how anyone could even think of writing a novel without having at least a vague of idea of the 10,000 years of literature that have gone before,” Mr. García Márquez said. But, he added, “I’ve never tried to imitate authors I’ve admired. On the contrary, I’ve done all I could not to imitate them.”
“无法想象如果一个人对之前一万年的文学连模糊的了解都没有，他怎么能想着要写一部小说，”加西亚·马尔克斯说。但他接着说，“我从未试图模仿我敬佩的作家。恰恰相反，我尽一切努力不模仿他们。”
As a journalist he scored a scoop when he interviewed a sailor who had been portrayed by the Colombian government as the heroic survivor of a navy destroyer lost at sea. The sailor admitted to him that the ship had been carrying a heavy load of contraband household goods, which unloosed during a storm and caused the ship to list enough to sink. His report, in 1955, infuriated Gen. Gustavo Rojas Pinilla, the country’s dictator, and Mr. García Márquez fled to Europe. He spent two years there as a foreign correspondent.
在当记者时，他挖到了一条独家新闻。当时，他采访了一名水兵，哥伦比亚政府说他是一名英勇的幸存者，他所在的那艘海军驱逐舰在海上失踪了。这名水兵向他承认，那艘船载有大量走私的生活用品，在一场暴风雨中，这些货物松散开来，导致船过度倾斜以致沉没。他在1955年发表的那篇报道激怒了哥伦比亚的独裁者古斯塔沃·罗哈斯·皮尼利亚(Gustavo Rojas Pinilla)将军，于是加西亚·马尔克斯逃往欧洲。他在欧洲做了两年驻外记者。
Unimpressed by Europe
对欧洲不以为然
Mr. García Márquez was less impressed by Western Europe than many Latin American writers, who looked to the Old World as their cultural fountainhead. His dispatches often reflected his belief that Europeans were patronizing toward Latin America even though their own societies were in decline.
相比许多将旧大陆(Old World)视为文化源泉的拉美作家，加西亚·马尔克斯却对西欧不以为然。他的报道往往反映出这种观点：尽管欧洲人自己的社会正在衰落，但他们却以居高临下的态度对待拉美国家。
He echoed these convictions in his Nobel address. Europeans, he said, “insist on measuring us with the yardstick that they use for themselves, forgetting that the ravages of life are not the same for all, and that the quest for our own identity is just as arduous and bloody for us as it was for them.”
他在诺贝尔奖的获奖致辞中就表达了这些观点。他说，欧洲人“坚持用衡量自己的标准来衡量我们，忘记了生活的摧残对各人都不同，而对自我身份的追寻，对我们和他们而言都一样艰辛而残忍”。
Mr. García Márquez alternated between journalism and fiction in the late 1950s. From 1959 to 1961 he supported the Castro revolution and wrote for Prensa Latina, the official Cuban press agency.
上世纪50年代末，加西亚·马尔克斯交替着从事新闻报道和小说写作。在1959年到1961年期间，他支持卡斯特罗革命，并且为古巴官方通讯社拉美社(Prensa Latina)写稿。
In 1961 he moved to Mexico City, where he would live on and off for the rest of his life. It was there, in 1965, after a four-year dry spell in which he wrote no fiction, that Mr. García Márquez began “One Hundred Years of Solitude.” The inspiration for it, he said, came to him while he was driving to Acapulco.
1961年，他搬往墨西哥城。在余下的生命中，他一直断断续续地生活在那里。1965年，在经过了不写小说的四年“干旱期”后，加西亚·马尔克斯正是在那里开始写《百年孤独》。他说，小说的灵感是在他开车去阿卡普尔科时出现的。
Returning home, he began an almost undistracted 18 months of writing while his wife, Mercedes, looked after the household. “When I was finished writing,” he recalled, “my wife said: ‘Did you really finish it? We owe $12,000.’ ”
回到家后，他开始了长达18个月的写作，几乎心无旁骛。在这期间，他的妻子梅塞德丝(Mercedes)负责照顾家里。“我写完时，”他回忆说，“我妻子说：‘你真的写完了吗？我们已经欠下1.2万美元了。’”
With the book’s publication in 1967, in Buenos Aires, the family never owed a penny again. “One Hundred Years of Solitude” was sold out within days.
该书1967年在布宜诺斯艾利斯出版后，他们家再也没有欠过一分钱。《百年孤独》几天之内就售罄了。
In following the rise and fall of the Buendía family through several generations of war and peace, affluence and poverty, the novel seemed to many critics and readers the defining saga of Latin America’s social and political history.
通过关注布恩迪亚家族几代人在战争与和平，富裕和贫穷时期的兴衰起伏，这部小说被许多评论家和读者认为是讲述拉美社会和政治历史的最重要的巨作。
Mr. García Márquez made no claim to have invented magical realism; he pointed out that elements of it had appeared before in Latin American literature. But no one before him had used the style with such artistry, exuberance and power. Magical realism would soon inspire writers on both sides of the Atlantic, most notably Isabel Allende in Chile and Salman Rushdie in Britain.
加西亚·马尔克斯没说过是自己创造了魔幻现实主义。他指出，魔幻现实主义的元素早就出现在了拉美文学中。但在他之前，没人能以这样的艺术才能、充沛的感情和力量运用这一风格。魔幻现实主义很快便启发了大西洋两岸的作家，其中最有名的是智利的伊莎贝尔·阿连德(Isabel Allende)和英国的萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)。
In 1973, when General Pinochet overthrew Chile’s democratically elected Marxist president, Salvador Allende, who committed suicide, Mr. García Márquez vowed never to write as long as General Pinochet remained in power.
1973年，在皮诺切特将军推翻了智利的民选马克思主义总统萨尔瓦多·阿连德(Salvador Allende)之后，加西亚·马尔克斯发誓，只要皮诺切特将军在位，他就不会再写作。阿连德后来选择了自杀。
The Pinochet dictatorship lasted 17 years, but Mr. García Márquez released himself from his vow well before it ended. “I never thought he’d last so long,” he said in a 1997 interview with The Washington Post. “Time convinced me I was wrong. What I was doing was allowing Pinochet to stop me from writing, which means I had submitted to voluntary censorship.”
皮诺切特的独裁统治延续了17年，但早在他的独裁统治结束之前，加西亚·马尔克斯就打破了自己的誓言。“我从没想到他的统治会持续那么长时间，”他在1997年接受《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)采访时说。“时间让我相信我错了。我那么做，正好允许皮诺切特阻止我写作，也就是说我是在自愿进行审查。”
For more than three decades the State Department denied Mr. García Márquez a visa to travel in the United States, supposedly because he had been a member of the Colombian Communist Party in the 1950s but almost certainly because of his continuing espousal of left-wing causes and his friendship with Mr. Castro. The ban was rescinded in 1995 after President Bill Clinton invited him to Martha’s Vineyard.
三十多年里，国务院(State Department)一直拒绝给加西亚·马尔克斯发放来美的签证。据说这是因为他在上世纪50年代是哥伦比亚共产党(Colombian Communist Party)的成员，但几乎可以确定的原因是，他一直拥护左翼事业，以及他与卡斯特罗的友谊。1995年比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)邀请他前往玛莎葡萄园岛(Martha's Vineyard)后，这一禁令才被废除。
Mr. García Márquez’s ties to Mr. Castro troubled some intellectuals and human rights advocates. Susan Sontag wrote in the 1980s, “To me it’s scandalous that a writer of such enormous talent be a spokesperson for a government which has put more people in jail (proportionately to its population) than any other government in the world.”
加西亚·马尔克斯与卡斯特罗的关系让一些知识分子和人权倡导者感到困惑。苏珊·桑塔格(Susan Sontag)曾在20世纪80年代写道，“对我来说，一个如此有才华的作者居然是一个关押的犯人比世界上其他任何政府都多（以犯人与总人口之间的比例而言）的政府的代言人，真是可耻。”
He attributed the criticism to what he called Americans’ “almost pornographic obsession with Castro.” But he became sensitive enough about the issue to intercede on behalf of jailed Cuban dissidents.
他将这些指责归咎于他所谓的美国人“对卡斯特罗淫秽的执念”。但他变得对这个问题足够敏感，以至于会为被关押的古巴异见人士说情。
After receiving his cancer diagnosis in 1999, Mr. García Márquez devoted most of his subsequent writing to his memoirs. One exception was the novella “Memories of My Melancholy Whores,” about the love affair between a 90-year-old man and a 14-year-old prostitute, published in 2004.
1999年被诊断出癌症后，加西亚·马尔克斯的大部分写作时间都被用来撰写自己的回忆录。但《我那些忧郁婊子的回忆录》(Memories of My Melancholy Whores)是个例外。这部中篇小说于2004年出版，讲述了一个90岁男子和一个14岁妓女的爱情故事。