The Associated Press won the Pulitzer Prize for public service on Monday for a series that exposed slavery and vicious abuse in the Southeast Asia fishing trade, leading to the release of 2,000 captives and broad reforms in an industry that is a major supplier of seafood to the United States.
周一，美联社的一个系列报道获得了普利策公共服务奖。报道揭露了东南亚渔业贸易中的奴役和虐待惨况，促使2000名被囚禁者获得释放，令一个作为美国重要海鲜供应源的行业开展广泛改革。
The Pulitzers are in their centennial year, and the winners announced by Columbia University reflected in part the changes sweeping the media landscape. Ken Armstrong of The Marshall Project, an online outlet founded 17 months ago, and T. Christian Miller of ProPublica, another digital news organization, won the explanatory reporting prize for a harrowing account of a botched rape investigation.
今年是普利策奖一百周年，哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)公布的获奖名单一定程度上反映了媒体界的巨变。获得释义性报道奖的文章沉痛讲述了对一桩强奸案的拙劣调查，两位作者分别是来自网络媒体马歇尔计划(The Marshall Project)的肯·阿姆斯特朗(Ken Armstrong)和数字新闻机构ProPublica的T·克里斯蒂安·米勒(T. Christian Miller)，马歇尔计划创办于17个月前。
One year after magazines became eligible in some Pulitzer categories, The New Yorker received two prizes: for Emily Nussbaum’s television criticism, and for “The Really Big One,” Kathryn Schulz’s ominous article about the potential for a major earthquake in the Pacific Northwest, which won for feature writing. William Finnegan, a New Yorker staff writer, won the biography award for his memoir, “Barbarian Days: A Surfing Life.”
从去年开始，杂志拥有了获得普利策某些类别奖项的资格。《纽约客》(The New Yorker)此次获得两个奖项：艾米莉·努斯鲍姆(Emily Nussbaum)的电视评论，以及凯瑟琳·舒尔茨(Kathryn Schulz)的文章《真正的大事》(The Really Big One)；后者探讨了西北太平洋地区发生大地震的可能性，赢得特稿写作奖。《纽约客》专职撰稿人威廉·芬尼根(William Finnegan)的回忆录《蛮族的日子：冲浪生活》(Barbarian Days: A Surfing Life)赢得了传记奖。
In an honor that was widely predicted, the musical “Hamilton,” a hip-hop retelling of the founding fathers story, received the prize for drama. The musical’s creator and star, Lin-Manuel Miranda, reacted joyfully on Twitter, writing: “PULITZER?!”
音乐剧《汉密尔顿》(Hamilton)用嘻哈乐演绎开国元勋故事，它荣获戏剧奖符合人们的普遍预测。该剧主创和主演林-曼努埃尔·米兰达(Lin-Manuel Miranda)高兴地在Twitter上写道：“普利策？！”
Alissa J. Rubin of The New York Times won the prize for international reporting, for an examination of the abuse and injustice faced by women in Afghanistan. The Times, which had 10 Pulitzer finalists, also won for breaking news photography, sharing the award with Thomson Reuters for a searing collection of images of migrants seeking asylum in Europe.
《纽约时报》的阿莉萨·J·鲁宾(Alissa J. Rubin)讲述阿富汗妇女面临虐待和不公的文章荣获了国际新闻奖。有10项入围作品的时报还与汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)分享了突发新闻摄影奖，获奖作品是一组前往欧洲寻求避难的移民的动人影像。
Two other newspapers won two prizes apiece. Farah Stockman of The Boston Globe won the commentary prize for her columns examining the legacy of busing and segregation in Boston, and a photographer for The Globe, Jessica Rinaldi, captured the feature photography award for chronicling a young boy’s struggle after a history of abuse.
还有其他两家报纸各赢得了两个奖项。《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)的法拉·斯托克曼(Farah Stockman)讲述波士顿校车和种族隔离影响的专栏文章赢得了评论写作奖，该报摄影师杰西卡·里纳尔迪(Jessica Rinaldi)用图片记录了一个遭受过虐待的小男孩的挣扎，获得了专题摄影奖。
The Tampa Bay Times won a prize for local reporting for its look at the stunning failure rates among black students in a Florida county that abandoned racial integration in its public school system. The paper also shared the investigative reporting prize with The Sarasota Herald-Tribune, for an exposé on abuse and neglect in Florida mental hospitals.
《坦帕湾时报》(The Tampa Bay Times)的一篇报道赢得了本地新闻奖，它讲述了佛罗里达州一个县的公立学校系统抛弃了种族融合做法，该县黑人学生的不合格率高得惊人。《萨拉索塔先驱论坛报》(Sarasota Herald-Tribune)一篇报道揭露了佛罗里达州精神病院虐待病人、疏于照料的状况，这两篇文章分享了调查性报道奖。
The Washington Post won the national reporting prize for a data- and graphic-intensive project that chronicled the death of every American killed by a police officer in 2015, revealing insights into police violence at a time when the subject has been at the core of the national political debate.
《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的一篇文章赢得了国内新闻奖，该文使用大量数据和图表，记录了2015年以来所有死于警察之手的美国人的情况，提供了对警察暴力的深刻见解，这个话题目前正是全国性政治辩论的核心。
The award for fiction went to Viet Thanh Nguyen for his debut novel, “The Sympathizer,” which opens in 1975 in Saigon and centers on a Communist sympathizer who escapes to Los Angeles and spies on a South Vietnamese group he has infiltrated. The novel, which won the Andrew Carnegie Medal for Excellence in Fiction, was hailed by critics as a new classic for war fiction and as a clever blend of espionage, satire and historical fiction.
阮越清(Viet Thanh Nguyen)的处女作《同情者》(The Sympathizer)荣获虚构作品奖。这部小说以1975年的西贡开场，讲述了一个同情共产主义的人逃到洛杉矶，打入一个南越人团体内部从事间谍工作的故事。《同情者》获得了安德鲁·卡内基优秀小说奖(Andrew Carnegie Medal for Excellence in Fiction)，被评论人誉为战争小说的新经典，是间谍、讽刺和历史小说的巧妙融合。
In nonfiction, the prize went to “Black Flags: The Rise of ISIS,” by Joby Warrick, a reporter for The Washington Post. In his book, which was published by Doubleday, Mr. Warrick explores the recent rise of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, in part through a detailed portrait of Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi, the group’s founder, who was killed in an American airstrike in 2006.
《华盛顿邮报》记者乔比·瓦里克(Joby Warrick)的《黑旗：伊斯兰国的崛起》(Black Flags: The Rise of ISIS)获得了非虚构作品奖。该书由道布尔戴出版社(Doubleday)出版。瓦里克在书中探讨了伊斯兰国近年在伊拉克和叙利亚的崛起，对该组织创始人阿布·穆萨布·扎卡维(Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi)进行了详细描写，此人在2006年的一次美国空袭行动中被击毙。