The author of “And the Mountains Echoed” keeps a handy copy of “I’m a Lebowski, You’re a Lebowski: Life, ‘The Big Lebowski,’ and What Have You” on his bookshelf.
《群山回响》(And the Mountains Echoed)的作者的书架上有一本便携版的《我是莱博斯基，你是莱博斯基：生活，<了不起的莱博斯基>，诸如此类》(I’m a Lebowski, You’re a Lebowski: Life, ‘The Big Lebowski,’ and What Have You)。
What’s your favorite book of all time?
你一直以来最喜欢的是哪本书？
The collected “Poems of Hafez,” also called “Divan-e-Hafez.” Revered in the Persian-speaking world, Hafez is, for me, the supreme Persian poet. His verses of philosophy, mystical love and bold anti-establishment statements are filled with luxuriant images and magical rhythms that always enchant me. His heartfelt ghazals have never failed to move me, and still do today as they did when I read them as a schoolboy in Kabul.
《哈菲兹诗集》(Poems of Hafez)，又名Divan-e-Hafez。哈菲兹在波斯语世界深受敬重，在我看来，他是最好的波斯语诗人。他关于哲学、神秘的爱和大胆的反建制声明的诗句充满了丰富的形象和神奇的韵律，总是让我着迷。他真诚的厄札尔(ghazal)情诗总能打动我，直到今天，它们仍像我在喀布尔上学时读到它们时那样让我感动。
Describe your ideal reading experience (when, where, what, how).
请描述你最完美的一次阅读体验（何时、何地、读的什么书、如何打动了你）。
The only two places where I can read for long stretches are in airplanes and in bed at nighttime. I read actual physical books and have thus far avoided the electronic lure.
只有在两个地方我能连续阅读很长时间，一个是在飞机上，一个是晚上在床上。我读的是纸质书，这样能远离电子产品的诱惑。
Who are your favorite novelists?
你最喜欢的小说家有哪些？
J. M. Coetzee, Jennifer Egan, Hemingway, Elizabeth Strout, Jhumpa Lahiri, Dave Eggers, Ian McEwan, David Foster Wallace, Junot Díaz, Kurt Vonnegut, Alice Munro (I know, she writes short stories, but many of them have the arc of condensed novels).
J·M·库切(J. M. Coetzee)、詹妮弗·伊根(Jennifer Egan)、海明威(Hemingway)、伊丽莎白·斯特劳特(Elizabeth Strout)、裘帕·拉希里(Jhumpa Lahiri)、戴夫·艾格斯(Dave Eggers)、伊恩·麦克尤恩(Ian McEwan)、大卫·福斯特·华莱士(David Foster Wallace)、朱诺特·迪亚兹(Junot Díaz)、库尔特·冯内古特(Kurt Vonnegut)、艾丽丝·门罗(Alice Munro)（我知道她是写短篇小说的，但是其中很多小说像是浓缩的长篇小说）。
What books, recent or otherwise, would you recommend about Afghanistan?
关于阿富汗的书，你想推荐哪些？最近出版的或者以前出版的都可以。
“West of Kabul, East of New York,” by Tamim Ansary; “Opium Nation,” by Fariba Nawa; “The Punishment of Virtue,” by Sarah Chayes; “The Sewing Circles of Herat,” by Christina Lamb; “The Patience Stone,” by Atiq Rahimi; “The Places in Between,” by Rory Stewart; “An Unexpected Light,” by Jason Elliot.
塔米姆·安萨利(Tamim Ansary)的《喀布尔以西，纽约以东》(West of Kabul, East of New York)、法里巴·纳瓦(Fariba Nawa)的《鸦片之国》(Opium Nation)、萨拉·查耶斯(Sarah Chayes)的《美德的惩罚》(The Punishment of Virtue)、克里斯蒂娜·兰姆(Christina Lamb)的《赫拉特的缝纫社》(The Sewing Circles of Herat)、阿提克·拉希米(Atiq Rahimi)的《耐心石》(The Patience Stone)、罗里·斯图尔特(Rory Stewart)的《中间地带》(The Places in Between)、詹森·艾略特(Jason Elliot)的《意想不到的光亮》(An Unexpected Light)。
You practiced medicine for more than 10 years. What has your training and experience as a doctor brought to your work as a writer?
你曾经行医10多年。你接受的医学培训和你的行医经历对你的写作有什么帮助吗？
Qualities you need to get through medical school and residency: Discipline. Patience. Perseverance. A willingness to forgo sleep. A penchant for sadomasochism. Ability to weather crises of faith and self-confidence. Accept exhaustion as fact of life. Addiction to caffeine a definite plus. Unfailing optimism that the end is in sight.
你要想完成医学院的学业，经受住住院实习的考验，需要以下素质：自律，有耐心，有毅力，愿意放弃睡眠，喜欢受虐，能够承受信仰和自信心的崩溃，能够接受生活就是让你精疲力竭，对咖啡因上瘾绝对是个优势，绝对的乐观，坚信马上就能熬出头。
Qualities you need to be a novelist: Ditto.
你做小说家同样需要这样的素质。
Who is your favorite overlooked or underappreciated writer?
你觉得哪位作家被忽视了或者说没有得到充分的赞赏？
I don’t think she is underappreciated, certainly not among writers, but Alice Munro is the classic underappreciated writer among readers. It is almost a cliché now to wonder why this living legend is not more widely read.
艾丽丝·门罗。作家同行们很赞赏她，但是读者对她的赞赏还不够。很多人都在问为什么这位在世的传奇作家的作品没有被更广泛地阅读，我在这里又提到她差不多是老生常谈。
What kinds of stories are you drawn to? Any you steer clear of?
哪种故事比较吸引你？又有哪种故事是你会故意避开的？
I love just about any kind of story as long as it is well told, makes an emotional impact and holds an elusive sense of mystery. That said, it has been many years since I’ve read fantasy or science fiction.
我什么故事都喜欢，只要它讲得好，能触动我的情感，拥有难以言喻的神秘感。也就是说，玄幻和科幻故事，我已经读了很多年了。
What books might we be surprised to find on your shelves?
你书架上有哪些书会让我们感到特别意外？
A collection of Tintin comics. “Why Do Men Have Nipples?” “World War Z.” “I’m a Lebowski, You’re a Lebowski: Life, ‘The Big Lebowski,’ and What Have You.” This last book comes, needless to say, with a recipe for a White Russian and is indispensable for fans of the cult classic. But that’s just like my opinion, man. 
整套的《丁丁历险记》(Tintin)、《男人为何长乳头？》(Why Do Men Have Nipples?)、《僵尸世界大战》(World War Z)、《我是莱博斯基，你也是莱博斯基：生活，<了不起的莱博斯基>，诸如此类》。我不用说你也知道最后这本书随附一份调制“白俄罗斯人”鸡尾酒的菜谱，对于痴迷这部经典电影的人来说这是必不可少的。不过你没想到我是其中一个吧？
What’s the best book you’ve ever received as a gift?
别人送给你的书中，最好的是哪一本？
My father gave me a Farsi translation of “White Fang” when I was a boy in Kabul circa mid-1970s.
大约在20世纪70年代，我当时在喀布尔，还是个孩子，我爸爸给了我一本波斯语版的《白牙》(White Fang)。
What book has had the greatest impact on you? 
哪本书对你的影响最大？
It has been years since I last read it, but the first time I did, in high school, “The Grapes of Wrath” really registered with me. Something about the struggles of the desperate migrant workers reminded me of the struggling people in my homeland of Afghanistan. When I visit Afghanistan now and meet displaced families moving from region to region on foot, trying to find work, home, a place to settle, I still think of Steinbeck’s masterpiece. And the final scene, Rose of Sharon breast-feeding the stranger, is one that still moves me deeply.
我已经很多年没有再读《愤怒的葡萄》(The Grapes of Wrath)了，但是高中时我第一次读它的时候，真的深深被震撼了。其中提到的绝望侨工的挣扎，让我想起了我的祖国阿富汗人民的挣扎。如今我回到阿富汗，看到那些流离失所的家庭徒步四处迁徙，努力寻找工作、家和可以安顿下来的地方，我仍会想起斯坦贝克(Steinbeck)的这部经典之作。本书最后木槿花给一个陌生人喂奶的情节，到现在还能深深地打动我。
If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be? 
如果你能要求美国总统读一本书，你会选哪一本？
I think this particular president is already a well-read man, thank God, and needs no reading recs from me.
我觉得这位总统已经博览群书了——真是谢天谢地——所以他不需要我给他推荐图书。
Did you grow up with a lot of books? What are your memories of being read to as a child?
你青少年时期读过很多书吗？你还记得小时候父母给你念过什么书吗？
I grew up around a lot of Rumi, Hafez and Omar Khayyám books. My parents in Kabul had all the volumes around the house. No one ever really read to me as a child. I was told bedtime stories by my father or my grandmother. Books, I mostly read on my own in bed. 
我成长的过程中读过鲁米(Rumi)、哈法兹(Hafez)和欧玛尔·海亚姆(Omar Khayyám)的很多书。在喀布尔的时候，父母在家里放了很多书。我小的时候，并没有人给我读书。晚上入睡前，父亲或者祖母会给我讲故事。书大多是我自己在床上读的。
Do you have a favorite childhood literary character or hero? 
你童年时喜欢哪个文学人物或主人公？
The tragic Sohrab, the great warrior from Ferdowsi’s 11th-century “Shahnameh” (“The Book of Kings”), one of the crown jewels of classic Persian poetry. Sohrab is the son of the great warrior Rostam, though the two have never met. Sohrab sets out with an army to bring glory to his father and win him the crown, only to come face to face with him in battle. The last scene of that particular story, Rostam holding Sohrab’s dying body, moments after he has learned the true identity of the man he has mortally wounded with his own sword, is unparalleled in the emotional wallop it packs. 
菲尔多西(Ferdowsi)在11世纪写的《国王之书》(Shahnameh, or The Book of Kings)中伟大的悲剧武士索拉博(Sohrab)。那本书是波斯语经典诗歌皇冠上的一颗明珠。索拉博是伟大的武士鲁斯塔姆(Rostam)的儿子，不过两人从未谋面。索拉博带领军队出发，想给父亲带来荣耀，为父亲赢得王位，但是战斗中的对手其实是他的父亲。在故事的最后一幕，鲁斯塔姆得知他亲手刺成重伤的人竟是自己的儿子，他抱住了奄奄一息的索拉博，那一幕给人的情感震撼真是无可比拟的。
Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel you were supposed to like, and didn’t? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?
令人失望，徒有其名，就是不好看：哪本书让你感觉你应该会喜欢，结果却不喜欢？你还记得最近有哪本书你没读完就不想看了？
A number of them, of course. But I am a nice guy. Ah, let’s call it what it is: I’m a coward. O.K., I’ll say it: “The Catcher in the Rye.” There.
当然有几本这样的书。但是我是个好人。呃，我还是直说吧：我是个懦夫。好吧，我要说了：《麦田里的守望者》(The Catcher in the Rye)。就是这本。
If you could meet any writer, dead or alive, who would it be? What would you want to know? 
假设你能与任何一位作家会面，不管是过世的或者还在世的，你想见谁？你想从他/她那里知道什么？
I would download a video of a typical debate of creationism versus evolution in public education, and then I would time-travel to the 19th century and play the clip for Charles Darwin. Show him what he started. And then I would watch for his reaction.
我想下载一段公共教育课上的关于神创论和自然进化论的经典辩论视频，然后我要时空穿梭到19世纪，给查尔斯·达尔文(Charles Darwin)播放这个片段，让他看看自己引发了什么后果。然后我要看看他的反应。
If you could meet any character from literature, who would it be? 
如果你能见到任何一个文学人物，你想见谁？
Dr. Manhattan from “Watchmen.”
《守望者》(Watchmen)中的曼哈顿博士(Dr. Manhattan)。
What do you plan to read next?
你下面计划读什么书？
“Maya’s Notebook,” by Isabel Allende.
伊莎贝尔·阿连德(Isabel Allende)的《玛雅的记事本》(Maya’s Notebook)。