One morning in March, a dozen Huffington Post staff members gathered around a glass table in Arianna Huffington’s office. They had been summoned to deliver a progress report to Huffington, the site’s president, editor in chief and co-founder, on a new initiative, What’s Working. It was created to help the site cover solutions, rather than focusing only on the world’s problems — or as Huffington explained in an internal memo in January, to ‘‘start a positive contagion by relentlessly telling the stories of people and communities doing amazing things, overcoming great odds and facing real challenges with perseverance, creativity and grace.’’
3月的一个上午，十多位《赫芬顿邮报》的工作人员围聚在阿莉安娜·赫芬顿(Arianna Huffington)办公室里的一张玻璃桌旁。他们被召来开会，向该网站的总裁、总编辑、联合创始人赫芬顿汇报一个叫做“解决之道”(What's Working)的新项目的进展情况。这个新板块报道的是人们如何解决问题，而不是仅仅关注世界上的种种难题。赫芬顿在今年1月的一份内部备忘录上如此解释这个项目：“传播正面感染力，不遗余力地讲述各种人群和社区付出卓绝努力，以毅力、创意和善意克服巨大困难，面对真正挑战的故事。”
Huffington, who is 64, was getting over a cold, and coughed hoarsely now and then. She sipped a soy cappuccino through a straw as she asked for updates in her purring, singsongy Greek accent. One by one, staff members went through their story lists: corporations with innovative plans to reduce water use, a nonprofit putting former gang members to work, Muslims confronting radicalism. Huffington kept the pace brisk; she sounded like a person in a hurry trying hard to not sound like one. When an editor hashed out ways to present a new, recurring feature called the What’s Working Media Honor Roll — a roundup of similarly positive journalism from other publications — she suggested that he launch first and tinker later.
现年64岁的赫芬顿正患感冒，不时嗓音沙哑地咳嗽。她用吸管喝着豆奶卡布奇诺咖啡，用她那柔软动听的希腊口音向下属询问进展情况。编辑记者们一个个地讲述他们的采访计划：通过创新方式节约用水的企业、一家帮助洗心革面的黑帮成员找工作的非营利组织、向极端主义说不的穆斯林人士等等。赫芬顿保持着快节奏：她听起来像个既忙碌但又努力掩饰忙碌的人。一位编辑详细讲述如何展现一个题为“解决之道媒体荣誉榜”的固定栏目，以总结其他媒体类似的“正能量报道”，她建议说，可以先把这个栏目上线，随后再调整。
‘‘I think let’s start iterating,’’ she said. ‘‘Let’s not wait for the perfect product.’’
“我想，我们先推出，”她说。“不要等待完美的产品。”
What’s Working might sound like a significant departure for a site that, like most media outlets, thrives on tales of conflict and wrongdoing. But in a sense What’s Working is not a departure at all. The Huffington Post has always been guided by the question: What works? Namely, what draws traffic? The answer has changed constantly. When Huffington co-founded the site in 2005, Facebook was still just a network for college students. Today, roughly half her mobile traffic comes from social media, Facebook above all. Arguably, this shift in browsing habits, as much as Huffington’s distaste for the media’s built-in bias toward negativity, helped inspire What’s Working. The initiative is in part an effort to get readers to share more Huffington Post stories on Facebook.
对于与其他多数媒体一样以报道冲突和坏消息为主旨的新闻网站来说，“解决之道”这个板块听起来完全是唱反调。但从某种意义上说，它也根本不算唱反调。《赫芬顿邮报》从来都为一个问题所驱动：什么是有用的？或者说，什么能带来流量？这个问题的答案也经常变动。当赫芬顿在2005年与人联合创办《赫芬顿邮报》时，Facebook还不过是大学生的社交网络。今天，她的网站几乎一半的流量来自社交媒体，以Facebook居首。可以说，这种网络浏览习惯的变化，以及赫芬顿本人对媒体与生俱来的对负面新闻的喜好感到不满，共同促成了“解决之道”这个版块。这个新举动一定程度上也是为了让读者们在Facebook上面更多地分享赫芬顿邮报的内容。
‘‘The numbers are amazing,’’ Huffington said as staff members filed out. ‘‘You’re not as likely to share a story of a beheading. Right? I mean, you’ll read it.’’
“（“解决之道”的）流量数字棒极了，”下属们从会议室鱼贯而出时，赫芬顿说。“你可不会分享一条有人被斩首的新闻，对吧？我是说，你只会读它。”
Within The Huffington Post, and away from the glass table, some staff members have fretted that What’s Working could result in a steady drip of pallid, upbeat stories (e.g., ‘‘How Hugh Jackman’s Coffee Brand Is Changing Lives’’). But it’s hard to argue with Huffington’s intuitions when it comes to generating traffic. Her site has more than 200 million unique visitors each month, according to comScore, and it is one of the country’s top online destinations for news.
在网站内部，还有一些编辑在离开玻璃桌子之后，表示担忧“解决之道”可能产生源源不断的乏味而积极的新闻故事。[例如，“休·杰克曼(Hugh Jackman)的咖啡品牌如何改变了人们的生活”]但是，赫芬顿本人对网站流量效果的直觉无可辩驳。据comScore的数据，她的网站每月有2亿多独立访问者，是全美国最大的在线新闻网站之一。
Nevertheless, in May, Huffington’s tenure as editor in chief was briefly in question. The site’s corporate parent, AOL, was sold to Verizon for $4.4 billion, and Huffington was forced to spend a few weeks negotiating the terms of the site’s future with her new overlords. During that process, AOL revealed that two suitors, earlier in the year, tried to buy The Huffington Post for $1 billion, or roughly four times what Jeff Bezos paid for The Washington Post two years ago. Plainly, to certain investors, digital media companies are valuable because they deliver enormous audiences. Any difficulty turning a profit — The Huffington Post broke even last year on $146 million in revenue, according to someone familiar with the site’s finances — is considered a temporary problem that will eventually be fixed by the sheer size of the readership.
尽管如此，今年5月，赫芬顿的总编职位一度成疑。《赫芬顿邮报》的母公司美国在线（AOL）以44亿美元的价格卖给电讯公司Verizon，赫芬顿被迫花了几周的时间与她的新老板们谈判有关网站未来的条款。在这个过程中，美国在线透露说，有两个潜在买家曾在今年早些时候试图以10亿美元购买《赫芬顿邮报》，几乎是杰夫·贝索斯(Jeff Bezos)两年前购买《华盛顿邮报》价钱的四倍。很显然，对于某些投资者来说，数字媒体公司价值更高，因为它们的读者群巨大。即使难以盈利——据熟悉网站财务情况的人士说，《赫芬顿邮报》去年营收1.46亿美元，刚刚收支相抵——这也不过被认为是暂时的问题，最终将会因读者群的规模迎刃而解。
This singular focus on audience development expresses itself in different ways at different publications. At The Huffington Post, it takes the shape of an editorial mandate that, much like the universe itself, is unfathomably broad and constantly expanding. At least in theory, nothing gets past its editors and writers. They cover, in most cases through aggregation, everything from Federal Reserve policy to celebrity antics, from Islamic State atrocities to parenting tips, supplemented with a steady stream of uncategorizable click bait (‘‘Can Cannibalism Fight Brain Disease? Only Sort Of’’).
这种对于开发读者群的重视，在不同的出版物有不同的表现形式。在《赫芬顿邮报》，它的形式是对于采编部门的死命令，但它就像宇宙本身一样，深不可测而又不断扩张。至少从理论上讲，编辑和作者们不能漏报任何新闻。他们的报道范围从美联储的政策到名人糗事，从伊斯兰国的暴行到亲子经验，辅之以源源不断的拥有惹眼标题而空洞无物、无法分类的内容（“同类相食能否抗击大脑疾病？勉强可以吧。”）
To work at The Huffington Post is to run a race without a finish line, at a clip that is forever quickening. The pace is stressful for many employees, who describe a newsroom with plenty of turnover. One former staff member I spoke with, who developed an ulcer while working there, called The Huffington Post ‘‘a jury-rigged, discombobulated chaos machine.’’
在《赫芬顿邮报》工作就是一场永无休止且不断加速的赛跑。这种节奏让很多雇员感到压力极大，他们说编辑部人员更迭频繁。我采访的一位前雇员在工作期间患上了胃溃疡，此人称《赫芬顿邮报》就如同“一部永远在修修补补、让人慌忙不安的混乱机器”。
Huffington may be the Internet’s most improbable media pioneer. This is her first job as an editor or publisher, and few would describe her as a techie. But as one of the first major media properties born in the full light of the digital age, The Huffington Post has always been a skunk works for the sorts of experiments that have come to define the news business in the Internet era.
而赫芬顿本人则是互联网上最不可思议的媒体先行者。这是她的第一份编辑出版类工作，几乎没有人会把她描述为“技术流”。但作为全数字时代产生的最早的重头媒体之一，《赫芬顿邮报》也是最适合互联网时代新闻业的试验场。
In its early days, when most visits came through Google searches, the site mastered search-engine optimization (S.E.O.), the art of writing stories based on topics trending on Google and larding headlines with keywords. The site’s annual ‘‘What Time Is the Super Bowl?’’ post has become such a famous example of S.E.O.-driven non-news that other media outlets have written half-disgusted, half-admiring posts dissecting its history.
在创立初期，多数访问量来自谷歌搜索，当时这家网站就高度掌握了搜索引擎优化技术，也就是通过分析谷歌搜索热门话题、在新闻标题中塞满搜索热词的新闻写作方式。《赫芬顿邮报》每年推出的“超级碗决赛是什么时候”帖子成了业界有名的搜索引擎优化驱动内容的范例，其他媒体对此既不齿又艳羡，编写了不少有关这个帖子历史的内容。
When most sites were merely guessing about what would resonate with readers, The Huffington Post brought a radical data-driven methodology to its home page, automatically moving popular stories to more prominent spaces and A-B testing its headlines. The site’s editorial director, Danny Shea, demonstrated to me how this works a few months ago, opening an online dashboard and pulling up an article about General Motors. One headline was ‘‘How GM Silenced a Whistleblower.’’ Another read ‘‘How GM Bullied a Whistleblower.’’ The site had automatically shown different headlines to different readers and found that ‘‘Silence’’ was outperforming ‘‘Bully.’’ So ‘‘Silence’’ it would be. It’s this sort of obsessive data analysis that has helped web-headline writing become so viscerally effective.
当其他媒体还在猜测读者会喜欢什么内容的时候，《赫芬顿邮报》就已经采取了高度基于数据分析的办法来决定首页内容，自动把热门内容挪到更高的位置，并且对标题进行A/B测试。网站的编辑部主任丹尼·希亚(Danny Shea)几个月前给我演示了运作方式。他打开一个操作页面，选出一条关于通用汽车的文章。文章的一个标题是“通用汽车如何让举报人封口”，另一个标题是“通用汽车如何欺凌举报人”，网站自动把不同标题显示给不同的人群，并且发现“封口”比“欺凌”效果更好，于是就以前者为最终标题。就是这种对数据分析的执着，让网络新闻标题的写作变得如此直觉般地高效。
Above all, from its founding in an era dominated by ‘‘web magazines’’ like Slate, The Huffington Post has demonstrated the value of quantity. Early in its history, the site increased its breadth on the cheap by hiring young writers to quickly summarize stories that had been reported by other publications, marking the birth of industrial aggregation.
归根到底，自从它在Slate等“网络杂志”盛行的年代创刊以来，《赫芬顿邮报》始终展现了数量的价值。从创刊早期开始，这个网站就通过雇佣年轻作者、迅速概括其他媒体报道过的新闻的方式，以极低的成本扩大内容的广度，成为“工业化新闻聚合”的始作俑者。
Today, The Huffington Post employs an armada of young editors, writers and video producers: 850 in all, many toiling at an exhausting pace. It publishes 13 editions across the globe, including sites in India, Germany and Brazil. Its properties collectively push out about 1,900 posts per day. In 2013, Digiday estimated that BuzzFeed, by contrast, was putting out 373 posts per day, The Times 350 per day and Slate 60 per day. (At the time, The Huffington Post was publishing 1,200 posts per day.) Four more editions are in the works — The Huffington Post China among them — and a franchising model will soon take the brand to small and midsize markets, according to an internal memo Huffington sent in late May.
今天，《赫芬顿邮报》雇佣了大批年轻的编辑、作者和视频制作人：网站总共有850名雇员，其中很多都以令人疲惫不堪的节奏埋头苦干。它在全球出版13个版本，包括在印度、德国和巴西的网站。它旗下所有机构每天总共发表1,900篇文章。据媒体行业出版物Digiday在2013年的估计，BuzzFeed每天发表373篇文章，《纽约时报》每天350篇，Slate每天60篇。（当时《赫芬顿邮报》每天发表1,200篇。）目前它还在策划另外四个版本，包括《赫芬顿邮报》中文版。据赫芬顿5月份发出的一份内部备忘录，网站还在筹划授权加盟模式，以将这个品牌带入中小规模的市场。
Throughout its history, the site’s scale has also depended on free labor. One of Huffington’s most important insights early on was that if you provide bloggers with a big enough stage, you don’t have to pay them. This audience-for-content trade has been imitated successfully by outlets like Thought Catalog and Bleacher Report, a sports-news website that Turner Broadcasting bought in 2012 for somewhere between $150 million and $200 million.
自创建以来，《赫芬顿邮报》还一直依赖无偿人力产生内容。赫芬顿在创业初期最重要的发现之一就是，只要你给博客写手们提供足够大的平台，就不必付费给他们。这种“以读者群换内容”的模式已经被博客平台“思想目录”(Thought Catalog)和体育新闻网站Bleacher Report 成功地模仿，后者在2012年以1.5亿～2亿美元的价格被特纳广播公司收购。
As this more-is-better ethos has come to define the industry, shifts in online advertising have begun to favor publications that already attract large audiences. Display advertising — wherein advertisers pay each time an ad is shown to a reader — still dominates the market. But native advertising, designed to match the look and feel of the editorial content it runs alongside, has been on the rise for years. BuzzFeed, the media company started in 2006 by Jonah Peretti, a co-founder of The Huffington Post, was built to rely entirely on native advertising. The Huffington Post offers to make its advertisers custom quizzes, listicles, slide shows, videos, infographics, feature articles and blog posts. Prices start at $130,000 for three pieces of content. This is where size matters; top-tier sites can fetch premium rates because advertisers know their messages could be seen by millions. There have been concerns that readers might be deceived by native ads if they are not properly identified — The Huffington Post always clearly labels its sponsored content — but the ethical debate in the media world is over. Socintel360, a research firm, predicts that spending on native advertising in the United States will more than double in the next four years to $18.4 billion.
随着这种“多就是好”的思想成为业内主导思维，在线广告业也开始青睐那些已经吸引大量读者的出版物。显示广告，即广告主按广告显示给读者的次数付费的模式，仍旧主导市场。但所谓“原生广告”(native advertising)，即在外观上模仿或搭配它旁边的编辑内容的广告形式，近年来地位也不断上升。2006年由《赫芬顿邮报》联合创办人之一乔纳·佩莱蒂(Jonah Peretti)创办的媒体公司BuzzFeed，其创立宗旨就是彻底依赖原生广告。《赫芬顿邮报》会为广告主发表度身定制的读者调查、列表文章、图集、视频、信息图表，特写文章或博客文章，价格是三篇文章13万美元起。这就是读者群的威力：顶级网站能够卖出高价广告，就是因为广告主们清楚，他们的内容能够被数以百万计的读者看到。但是，也有人担忧，如果原生广告不清楚标示出来，读者们可能被欺骗或误导——《赫芬顿邮报》从来都清楚地标明它的原生广告内容，但媒体行业在这个问题上的的职业道德辩论早已结束。研究公司Socintel360预计，在未来四年内，美国国内的原生广告购买额将翻一番多，达到184亿美元。
Kenneth Lerer, another Huffington Post co-founder, believes that news start-ups today are like cable-television networks in the early ’80s: small, pioneering companies that will be handsomely rewarded for figuring out how to monetize your attention through a new medium. If this is so, the size of The Huffington Post’s audience could one day justify that $1 billion valuation. But at least in cable, the ratings-driven mania of sweeps week comes only four times a year.
《赫芬顿邮报》的另一位联合创办人肯尼思·雷勒(Kenneth Lerer)认为，媒体行业的初创公司就如同1980年代的有线电视网：它们是小规模、引领潮流的公司，掌握了通过新媒介讲注意力变现的秘诀，必将获得丰厚回报。如果这一点成立，那么《赫芬顿邮报》的庞大读者群也许能在某一天对得起它现在的10亿美元估值。但至少就有线电视网行业来说，收视率驱动的广告热卖周，一年也不过四次而已。
Even as she oversees an international news operation, Huffington spends most of her days and nights in a globe-spanning run of lectures, parties, talk shows, conferences and meetings, a never-ending tour that she chronicles in a dizzying Instagram feed. Her stamina is a source of awe to members of what she calls her A-Team — the A is for Arianna — a group of 9 or so Huffington Post staff members who, in addition to their editorial duties, help keep her in perpetual motion. Within the organization, A-Team jobs are known to be all-consuming — but also, for those who last, a ticket to promotion later on. While some stick around for years, many A-Teamers endure only about 12 months before calling it quits or asking to be transferred.
虽然她掌管着一家全球性的新闻网站，赫芬顿的多数时间都花在全球各地的讲座、聚会、脱口秀和会议上，她通过令人眩晕的Instagram图文流来记录自己永无休止的环球旅行。她在《赫芬顿邮报》的编辑部有一个大约9人组成的“A团队”——A代表她的名字阿莉安娜——他们除了自己日常的编辑职责外，还负责帮助她管理日程，让她永葆忙碌。赫芬顿的精力之旺盛，令团队成员敬畏不已。在网站内部，大家都知道A团队的职责令人不堪重负，但是那些能坚持下来的人就能得到提升。尽管有些人能一直工作多年，但其中很多人只能撑12个月左右，就会辞职或请求调任。
The first time I saw Huffington’s unremitting style up close was in New Haven last year, at the start of a tour to promote her self-help book, ‘‘Thrive.’’ In all of our interviews, she was warm and entertaining. She has a politician’s gift for seeming sincerely interested, having learned that nothing is so disarming as asking personal questions and then listening. She also has a comic’s timing. At a Barnes & Noble onstage chat in Manhattan, shortly before the trip to New Haven, the moderator, Katie Couric, asked her who was to blame for the merciless pace of life in corporate America. Huffington paused for a moment. Then she turned to the audience.
我第一次近距离见识赫芬顿这种风风火火的风格，是去年在纽黑文，在她的新书《成功》(Thrive)的售书之旅开始之际。在我们的多次采访中，她都表现得热情而风趣。她拥有如同政客一般的天赋，能够显得非常真诚、兴趣十足，因为她早已认识到，向人发问个人问题并倾听，是让人解除武装的最有效办法。她还像喜剧演员一样会掌握节奏。在她去纽黑文之前，在曼哈顿一家Barnes & Noble书店举行的对话中，主持人凯蒂·库里克(Katie Couric)在台上问她，谁应该对当今美国公司文化中冷酷的快节奏负责。她停顿了片刻，然后转向听众们。
‘‘Men,’’ she deadpanned.
“男人们，”她不动声色地回答说。
In her talk, she described her own transformation from fast-lane addict to evangelist for reflection, sleep and ‘‘digital detoxing’’ — basically, turning off your smartphone whenever possible. This is a catechism she has branded the ‘‘third metric’’ of success, with money and power being the first two. Her conversion narrative begins on the morning of April 6, 2007, when she collapsed from exhaustion. She fell to the floor in her home office, hitting her face on her desk and breaking her cheekbone. Medical tests found nothing that could explain the episode. Huffington realized that her lifestyle, which at the time was filled with 18-hour workdays, seven days a week, was wrecking her health.
在她的演讲中，她称自己本来是快节奏生活成瘾者，但后来转变为致力宣扬沉思、睡眠和“数字解毒”（也就是尽量关掉手机）的人。她把这个概念定义为成功的“第三个标准”，前两者则是金钱和权力。在她的叙述中，她的变化始于2007年4月6日的早上，当时她因过度劳累而昏倒在家中办公室的地板上，脸砸到了办公桌，颧骨骨折。医疗检查并未发现任何能够解释她的症状的情况，但赫芬顿意识到，她每天工作18个小时，每周工作7天的生活方式已经开始毁掉她的健康。
‘‘By any sane definition of success,’’ she told the crowd that day in New Haven, ‘‘if you are lying in your office in a pool of blood, you are not a success.’’
当天她在纽黑文对听众们说：“从任何理智的成功定义来看，如果你倒在自己的办公室里，满身是血，你可不是一个成功者。”
The speech, which I caught a few times, is always a hit. Huffington presents herself as a redemption story, someone who overdosed on her mobile phone and survived to warn others. She looks the part, too: a Dolce & Gabbana-ed woman of a certain age, perfectly at ease, regularly brushing back a forelock of honey-blond hair with her fingers. After the speech in New Haven, people lined up to have their copies of ‘‘Thrive’’ signed. One by one, they offered Huffington variations of, ‘‘You are an inspiration.’’ Some shared their own success stories.
同一个演讲我听过几次，每次都大受欢迎。赫芬顿把自己描述成洗心革面的例子：过度使用手机的成功人士，勉强幸存下来并警告其他人不要效尤。她的外表也符合这个形象：一身Dolce & Gabbana套装，上了些年纪，气定神闲，不时用手指向后拨拢一缕蜜糖金色的浓密长发。在纽黑文的售书讲座后，人们排成长队请她在自己买的《成功》一书上签名。每个人都以不同的方式感谢她的“励志故事”，有些人还与她分享自己的成功故事。
One woman told her: ‘‘In the horse world, I do holistic care, and I’m embarking on a barn that’s cutting-edge. It’s all about positive reinforcement.’’
一位女性听众对她说：“我跟马匹打交道，做马儿的全身养护工作。我现在开始在一家业界前沿的马厩工作，正面回馈对我帮助很大。”
‘‘We’d love you to write about it!’’ Huffington exclaimed.
“你应该写写你的故事！”赫芬顿热情地说。
Five years ago, in 2010, the site was successful, attracting nearly 25 million unique visitors a month, but it lacked the money Huffington felt it needed to expand. So it seemed fortunate when, later that year, she met Tim Armstrong, chief executive of AOL, at a media conference in New York.
5年前的2010年，《赫芬顿邮报》就已经非常成功，每月有近2,500万独立访问者，但缺乏赫芬顿需要的扩张资金。而她非常幸运地在当年晚些时候，在纽约的一个媒体大会上遇到了美国在线的首席执行官提姆·阿姆斯特朗(Tim Armstrong)。
‘‘He asked to meet with me privately, and he said: ‘What do you want to do with The Huffington Post?’ ’’ Huffington recalled. ‘‘And I said, ‘I want to be a global company, I want us to be everywhere in the world.’ ’’
“他约我私下见面，他问：‘你打算把《赫芬顿邮报》做到多大？’”赫芬顿回忆说。“我说，‘我想成为一家全球性企业，我希望我们能够达到世界的每个角落。’”
Armstrong offered $315 million, and on Feb. 7, 2011, AOL announced the acquisition. Huffington was made the head of the Huffington Post Media Group, an entity that would control AOL’s empire of content — an odd mixture of offerings including Moviefone, TechCrunch, Engadget, MapQuest, Autoblog, AOL Music and the collection of hundreds of hyperlocal websites called Patch. In a stroke, Huffington found herself overseeing a diverse portfolio with 117 million unique visitors per month in the United States and 270 million around the world. She also managed several thousand editors, writers, bloggers and business staff members.
阿姆斯特朗出价3.15亿美元，并在2011年2月7日宣布这桩收购案。赫芬顿被任命为《赫芬顿邮报》媒体集团总裁，这个集团控制整个美国在线的内容帝国，旗下包括各种无奇不有的网站，如影视新闻网站Moviefone、科技新闻网站TechCrunch和Engadget、地图网站MapQuest、汽车新闻网站Autoblog、美国在线音乐网AOL Music, 以及名为Patch的数百个高度本地化新闻网站的集合。一夜之间，赫芬顿发现自己掌管了一个包容万象的媒体帝国，在美国国内每月有1.17亿独立访问者，在全球则有2.7亿。她还管理着数千位编辑、写手、博主和运营部门员工。
Initially, Armstrong and Huffington seemed like a natural match. Each is a fan of big ideas that can be executed quickly; each prizes boldness and energy. At one AOL meeting with brand managers, Armstrong ribbed his underlings by recounting how Huffington called him on a Sunday to tell him what was wrong with AOL’s home page. Why had no one else done that?
刚开始，阿姆斯特朗和赫芬顿看起来似乎是天生搭档：两人都喜欢可以迅速实现的宏伟想法；二人风格都是风风火火、精力十足。在美国在线品牌部门的一次会议上，阿鲁斯特朗以赫芬顿为例将了属下一军：某个周日，她打来电话，历数美国在线首页的种种失败之处。为什么其他人就没做过这个？
Integrating a group of such varied websites and personnel would have posed a challenge to any manager. For one who admits to having little interest in organization and planning, it was impossible. Huffington preferred to improvise, and she did so aggressively — ‘‘like a hockey player,’’ as one former AOL executive put it, with some admiration.
对任何一位管理者来说，整合如此包罗万象的网站和人员都是一个重大挑战。对于赫芬顿这样一位自称对组织和策划毫无兴趣的人来说，这简直是不可能的任务。赫芬顿喜欢灵机一动，即兴发挥，而且势不可挡 —— 一位曾在美国在线工作的经理人略带敬畏地称她“如同冰球运动员一样”。
A clash of cultures, however, was soon evident. Many of AOL’s sites did little more than promote their sponsors; AOL Real Estate, for instance, was mainly a home for Bank of America ads, next to stories about the joys of mortgage refinancing. In an attempt to restore some semblance of editorial integrity, Huffington fired the freelancers who worked for the site and replaced them with young staff members. Many were recent graduates of Yale — her feeder of choice — whose chief qualification, aside from the obvious, was a willingness to work for a pittance. But the hiring spree was rushed and filled the sites with fledglings. Page views plunged, irking corporate sponsors.
但是，文化冲突很快就显现出来。美国在线旗下很多网站基本就是赞助商的宣传工具：例如“美国在线不动产网”几乎就是美洲银行的广告网站，夹杂着有关房产再抵押的益处的软文。为了多少显示出编辑独立，赫芬顿解聘了网站的自由撰稿人，代之以年轻的全职雇员，其中很多都是耶鲁大学毕业生。耶鲁大学是她最喜欢的人才基地，而她雇来的耶鲁毕业生最大的优点就是不在乎低工资。但是大规模招人的过程过于仓促，导致网站充斥着毫无经验的新手，点击量大降，赞助商们很不满。
At first, many on Armstrong’s team had been awed by her energy and range, but they quickly grasped that these didn’t always translate into results. ‘‘No one else could give a commencement speech at Smith one day, meet the prime minister of Japan on Tuesday and debate the Middle East on MSNBC on Wednesday,’’ one former executive said. ‘‘But that doesn’t mean she knows the ins and outs of running Moviefone.’’ It didn’t help that AOL stock, following the acquisition, had fallen to less than $12 by August from just above $20 at the time of the purchase half a year earlier. At some point, Huffington stopped going to meetings of AOL executives, and in April 2012, an organizational reshuffling quietly moved every AOL site except The Huffington Post out of Huffington’s portfolio. Her tenure as AOL content czar was over.
起初，阿姆斯特朗团队的很多人都对赫芬顿的精力之旺盛和职责之广泛感到敬畏，但他们很快发现，这并不代表她总是能完成工作目标。“没人能像她一样今天在（马里兰大学）史密斯学院学生毕业仪式上发表演讲，周二会见日本首相，周三在MSNBC上与人辩论中东问题，”美国在线一位前经理人表示。“但这并不意味着她掌握了管理Moviefone的诀窍。”并购半年之后，美国在线的股价从当初的20多美元跌到不足12美元，这也令她处境更加艰难。赫芬顿开始不再出席美国在线高管的会议，2012年4月，美国在线悄然进行一场架构改组，除了《赫芬顿邮报》以外，其他美国在线网站都不再归赫芬顿管理。她作为美国在线内容女王的时代结束了。
By then, Huffington was having a serious case of seller’s remorse. During a tech conference, she was overheard at a bar in Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif., talking to the venture capitalist Scott Stanford, then a Goldman Sachs banker. Speaking in a voice loud enough for many to hear, she posed questions like, ‘‘Who would buy The Huffington Post?’’ and ‘‘How much would it fetch?’’ Around that time, Huffington Post employees recall, she went on trips with very rich people and returned with news that the site was about to be purchased again, this time for $1 billion.
那时，赫芬顿也已经十分后悔自己当初出售网站的决定。在一次科技行业大会期间，她在加州帕洛斯佛迪市的一家酒吧与风险投资人斯科特·斯坦福（Scott Stanford，他当时在高盛任职）聊天时大声地问对方：“现在谁会收购《赫芬顿邮报》？”“它会卖出什么价钱？”邮报员工回忆，当时她曾与数位巨富人士一同出游，回来后向员工宣称，网站将以10亿美元的价格再次出售。
But The Huffington Post was no longer Huffington’s to sell, and AOL seemed uninterested in parting with it. By October 2012, discontent with Huffington was widespread enough that top executives at AOL were quietly strategizing about ways to ease her into a kind of ceremonial role — one in which she would only promote the site rather than running its day-to-day operations. (A source said the effort was given a one-word shorthand: ‘‘Popemobile.’’ Like the Pope in his bulletproof bubble, Huffington would glide through the world and wave.) The idea never caught on, mostly because it was clear Huffington would never agree to it, and by May of this year, when Verizon announced its acquisition of AOL, it had long been abandoned.
但是，《赫芬顿邮报》已经不再是赫芬顿私人所有了，美国在线也似乎对出售网站不感兴趣。到2012年10月，集团内部对赫芬顿的不满情绪弥漫，以致高管们开始悄悄策划如何将她架空，只保留宣传网站品牌的名誉职责，而不再负责日常运营（一位消息人士称，集团高管给这个计划起了个代号叫做“教皇车”——即教皇出行时所乘坐的那辆气泡一样的防弹小车，赫芬顿将像教皇一样，隔着玻璃向世界挥手致意）。但这个想法始终没有获得多少支持，很大程度上是因为大家清楚，赫芬顿绝不会同意放手。而到今年5月，电信公司Verizon宣布收购美国在线的时候，这个计划早就被放弃了。
Verizon went after AOL principally for its ad-buying technologies, but in mid-June, Verizon’s C.E.O. and chairman, Lowell McAdam, said he was committed to keeping The Huffington Post, as incidental as its acquisition may have been. Huffington, whose contract with AOL expired earlier in the year, wanted guarantees that Verizon would finance the site’s growth and keep its hands off articles with which it may have a difference of opinion — those on net neutrality, for instance.
Verizon求购美国在线主要是为了获得后者的广告购买技术，但到了6月，Verizon首席执行官兼董事长洛威尔·麦克亚当(Lowell McAdam)表示他致力于保留《赫芬顿邮报》，尽管当初收购这个网站不过是个偶然决定。赫芬顿本人与美国在线的合同在今年早些时候即已到期，她也希望Verizon能保证继续投资于网站的发展，并且承诺不会干涉网站与公司立场不符的内容——比如网站上关于“网络中立”(即互联网服务提供商应平等地向所有内容和软件提供网络接入服务，无论其来源，并且不会优待或屏蔽任何产品和网站)问题的文章。
Soon after the Verizon-AOL deal was announced, Huffington began to negotiate her future and the future of The Huffington Post. According to two sources, Armstrong suggested closing the acquisition first and prodding Verizon to make promises about The Huffington Post later. Huffington refused, and she held out until mid-June, when Verizon pledged more than $100 million a year for ongoing operations and vowed to give the site editorial autonomy. (Others with knowledge of the talks say that no financial commitments have been made yet.) The money will allow The Huffington Post to broaden its video offerings, supporting a 24-hour online network and what Huffington called, in an internal memo, a ‘‘rapid-response satire unit.’’ Assurances in hand, Huffington signed a new four-year contract that will keep her in situ as editor in chief.
Verizon—美国在线并购案宣布后不久，赫芬顿就开始与买方谈判她与网站未来的问题。两位消息人士表示，阿姆斯特朗提出，应该先敲定收购案，然后再促使Verizon为《赫芬顿邮报》的未来做出承诺。但是赫芬顿拒绝了，并且坚持立场到6月中旬，直到Verizon承诺每年投资1亿多美元支持网站运营，并誓言保证网站编辑自主权（也有其他了解谈判的人士称，Verizon并未做出任何财务方面的承诺）。这些投资可以让《赫芬顿邮报》继续扩展视频内容，支持24小时更新的在线新闻网，并且增设赫芬顿所称的“快速反应讽刺部队”。在拿到这些承诺之后，赫芬顿与Verizon签了新的四年合同，让她留任总编辑职位。
None of this necessarily means that The Huffington Post will remain in Verizon’s permanent portfolio. In fact, if Verizon’s real goal is to offload the site, it has done exactly what it should to burnish the asset for eventual sale. Were suitors to come courting again, they would surely offer less for a Huffington-less Huffington Post.
但是这一切并不能确保Verizon会一直持有《赫芬顿邮报》 。实际上，如果Verizon的真正目的是把网站卖掉的话，它做的一切恰恰有利于改善网站，以便将来卖个好价钱。如果《赫芬顿邮报》没有了赫芬顿，那有意收购的主顾一定不会愿意出大价钱。
That is not to say that Huffington is inexpensive to keep around. She flies all around the planet, occasionally with members of the A-Team in tow. A-Team duties include tending to Huffington’s Twitter account, her Instagram feed and her Facebook posts; running her errands; organizing her day; planning her travel; and prepping her speeches, which, if they aren’t pro bono, cost at least $100,000. One former A-Teamer recalled loading The Huffington Post on Huffington’s computer when she showed up at the office.
要留住赫芬顿可不便宜。她周游世界，有时还得带着她的A团队。A 团队的职责包括维护赫芬顿的推特账户，更新她的Instagram和Facebook；他们还要打理各种杂事，安排赫芬顿的日程和旅行；给她准备讲稿。除非是公益演讲，她一场演讲的报酬至少10万美元。一位A团队的前成员说，自己还得在赫芬顿进办公室时为她在电脑上打开《赫芬顿邮报》的网页。
‘‘Arianna doesn’t surf the web,’’ the former A-Teamer explained. ‘‘She reads stories that people send on her iPhone, and she sends and receives emails on her BlackBerry. But I’ve never seen her on a computer, surfing the web.’’ Huffington said that this is not true, and stated that she ditched her BlackBerry nearly two years ago. But more than a dozen former and current Huffington Post staff members said they had never seen her so much as open a web browser.
“阿莉安娜从不上网游览，”这位A团队的前成员解释道：“她会读别人发到她iPhone上的文章，她用黑莓收发邮件。但是我从没有见过她用电脑上网。” 赫芬顿说这不是真的，她说在差不多两年前她就不用黑莓了。但是有超过一打的前任和现任《赫芬顿邮报》员工说他们从没见过赫芬顿打开过网页浏览器。
Some former employees file this in the category, Things at Odds With Arianna’s Public Image. Also in this category is the vibe at The Huffington Post’s downtown Manhattan office. Despite its nap rooms, meditation rooms and breathing classes, which were introduced as Huffington entered her ‘‘Thrive’’ phase, it is described as a surpassingly difficult place to work.
一些前任员工说，不上网只是 “与阿莉安娜的公众形象格格不入的东西”的长长清单中的一项。这个清单中的内容还包括《赫芬顿邮报》在曼哈顿中城区办公室里的氛围。在赫芬顿出版《成功》一书之后，办公室里添加了午睡室和冥想室，并且为员工提供吐纳课程；尽管如此，仍旧有人描述这个办公室的气氛让人极难忍受。
Much of this difficulty is inherent to life at an Internet news site, where victory means beating the competition by a matter of seconds with a post that might yield gobs of traffic. This is why so many editors and writers at The Huffington Post remain at their desks during lunch and keep an eye on the web at all times. If, while you’re offline, three new Instagram filters are announced and you’re late to post the news, that’s a problem. ‘‘Just about everyone works continuously, whether you’re at the office or not,’’ one former employee said. ‘‘That little green light that says you’re available on Gchat is what matters.’’
很大程度上，这种办公环境与新闻网站的行业特色息息相关——竞争在这个行业意味着比对手早出数秒发表文章，这就会带来巨大流量。这就是为什么许多邮报编辑和作者在自己电脑前吃午饭，一刻不停地监控网络。假如在你离开期间，Instagram网站新推出了三种不同的滤镜，而你晚发了这条新闻，就算是出状况了。“每个人都不停地工作，无论你是否在办公室。”一位前员工说。“谷歌聊天软件上面那个表明你在线的绿色小点就是最重要的。”
Low pay worsens the strain. One former employee said that some staff members take second jobs to cover their expenses. Some tutor; others wait on tables; others babysit. (A representative for The Huffington Post said the company was unaware of any moonlighting.) Many staff members rely on what has been called ‘‘HuffPost lunch’’ — Luna Bars, carrots, hummus, apples, bananas and sometimes string cheese, all served gratis in a kitchen area of the office.
工资不高令这种压力更加难以忍受。一位前员工说，有些邮报员工不得不打第二份工，以维持生计。有些人做家教，还有人在餐馆做服务生，或是照看小孩（《赫芬顿邮报》的一位代表称，公司不清楚有员工做兼职的情况）。很多员工吃公司提供的“赫芬顿邮报午餐”来节省开支：在办公室内就餐区免费提供的Luna营养棒、胡萝卜、鹰嘴豆泥、苹果、香蕉，有时还有线状奶酪， 。
Inevitably, there is burnout. At the New York office, nearly two dozen employees have left since the start of this year, either because they were laid off or found more enticing and less hectic jobs. A Gawker post in early June, written by an anonymous former staff member, said the recent departures were hardly a surprise because the place has long been ‘‘so brutal and toxic it would meet with approval from committed sociopaths.’’
自然，很多员工因身心交瘁而离职。在纽约办公室，自今年年初以来已经有20多人离职，或是因为被炒或是找到了更有吸引力而不那么煎熬人的工作。一位匿名的邮报前员工6月上旬在Gawker网站发表了一篇文章，称大批员工离职根本不奇怪，因为这个地方很久以来都是“极度残酷，气氛糟糕，只有彻头彻尾的反社会者才会喜欢这里”。
A former editor told me about a period in 2013 when a series of departures left a cluster of empty desks along a wall that Huffington walks past on the way to her office. ‘‘Someone told my manager, ‘Arianna is really stressed out about the number of people leaving, so we need a bunch of people to sit at those desks in the path from the elevator to her office, to make her feel better,’ ’’ the former editor said. ‘‘So we sat there, waiting to say: ‘Hello! Greetings!’ as she walked by. It was supposed to be for two hours, but she got there at about 3 in the afternoon instead of 11 in the morning. It was absurd. I had to interrupt my workday because this woman was stressed out, because so many people had left, because they were stressed out.’’ (A Huffington Post representative denied this story, saying it was ‘‘clearly made up by someone with an ax to grind.’’)
一位前编辑对我说，2013年有一段时间，多名员工陆续离职，在办公室一面墙边留下了很多空桌子，而赫芬顿每天来办公室都经过这里。“有人对我的部门经理说：‘阿莉安娜对这么多人离职感到不爽，所以我们需要一堆人坐在从电梯到她办公室这条路两边，让她感觉好受些。’” 这位前编辑说：“所以我们就坐在那里，等着在她经过时说：‘您好！祝你愉快！’本来每天只要坐那里两个小时，但是她每天下午三点才来办公室，而不是上午11点。这太荒谬了，我每天要打断自己的工作日程跑来坐在这里，因为这个女人感到不爽，因为这么多人离职了，因为他们更不爽。”（一位《赫芬顿邮报》代表否认这种说法，称‘很显然这是别有用心的人编造出来的’。）
Staff members in Huffington’s inner circle must also contend with her superhuman endurance. Her oft-repeated claim to sleep eight hours a night notwithstanding, she rarely seems to be idle. Emails from her cease, several ex-employees told me, only between 1 a.m. and 5 a.m.
赫芬顿手下的员工还必须跟上她超人一般的精力。尽管她经常自称每天睡满8个小时，但她几乎没有闲着的时候。几位前员工对我说，她只有在凌晨1点到5点之间这段时间才不发邮件。
There are staff members who have stuck it out for years and speak highly of the site as a place to work. They say they form lasting bonds with co-workers and relish the sense that they are writing for millions of readers. Some, like Daniel Koh, a former A-Teamer, speak with a reverence and fondness for Huffington herself. Koh described her as a perfectionist of exceptional intellectual wattage, a leader who never raises her voice and never holds a grudge. ‘‘Was it intense, and long hours, and did she teach me to maximize my workday?’’ he said. ‘‘Absolutely.’’
也有员工在这里坚持工作多年，对办公室的工作环境赞不绝口。他们称，自己与同事们结下深厚友谊，很喜欢为数以百万计的读者写新闻的感觉。也有人像前“A团队”成员丹尼尔·高一样，谈起赫芬顿来充满崇敬与爱戴。他说把赫芬顿描述为智力超群的完美主义者，一位从不提高嗓音或记恨员工的领袖。“工作是否辛苦，工时超长？她是否要求我在工作日付出最大努力？那是肯定的。”
But others who have worked closely with Huffington have found it a bruising experience, saying that she is perpetually on the lookout for signs of disloyalty, to a degree that bespeaks paranoia or, at the very least, pettiness. Employees cycle in and out of her favor, hailed as the site’s savior one moment, ignored the next. (The Gawker post called the office ‘‘essentially Soviet in its functioning.’’) ‘‘Everyone’s stock is shooting up or falling at any given moment, so everyone is rattled with uncertainty and insecurity,’’ one former employee said. ‘‘I’ve never seen anything like it.’’
但其他与赫芬顿密切共事的人则称这段经历给他们留下惨痛记忆。他们称，赫芬顿时时刻刻都在员工身上寻找不忠的迹象，甚至让人感到她有迫害妄想狂，至少是心胸狭隘。员工们今天得宠，明天失势；她可能现在称赞某人为网站的救星，转过头就对其不理不睬（Gawker网站上那篇吐槽帖称，办公室“管理体制根本上就是苏维埃式的”）。“每个人的前程都瞬息万变，所以每个人都深感惶恐不安，”一位前员工说。“我从来没见过这种情况。”
When I asked Huffington about criticisms of the newsroom, she was unmoved. She pointed to the nap rooms and breathing classes as evidence that she took employee well-being seriously. Only the voices of current employees were worth listening to, she cautioned, because the opinions of people who were laid off or left were likely to skew negative. I noted that she seemed unwilling to accept any responsibility for what a lot of former employees said was a vexing atmosphere.
当我向赫芬顿问起人们对邮报办公室的批评时，她不为所动。她以午睡室和吐纳课程为例，说自己对员工的身心健康非常关注。她提醒我说，只有现任员工的意见才值得倾听，因为那些被裁掉或辞职的员工，观点总是偏向负面。我指出，很多前雇员称《赫芬顿邮报》的工作气氛令人焦虑不安，她似乎不愿为此承担责任。
‘‘I’m definitely a work in progress,’’ she acknowledged. ‘‘I’m not by any means saying I’m perfect. But I feel very good about our culture here, because a lot of our top leaders have embraced it.’’
“我的确不是一个完人，”她承认道。“我绝不认为自己是完美的，但我对我们的企业文化感到非常满意，因为我们的很多顶尖领袖人才都赞赏接受了这种文化。”
The Huffington Post is hardly the only web media company with a reputation as an arduous place to work. Nor is Huffington the only editor in chief considered capricious and exasperating by employees. But she is surely the first described in those terms to install hammocks in a newsroom. Only someone with her unique combination of drive and outward placidity could run a tremendously popular, hugely productive website and then begin a second career chastening us for our addiction to the Internet. Somehow she has pulled it off. In her site’s parenting section, some of the most successful posts target moms who are checking their Facebook feeds late at night, apparently yearning to be told that they shouldn’t be on Facebook at that hour. ‘‘You know, posts about, ‘Stop procrastinating and go sleep,’ ‘Disconnect your devices,’ ’’ said Ethan Fedida, the site’s senior social media editor. ‘‘They go crazy for it.’’
《赫芬顿邮报》当然不是唯一一家拥有“工作太累”名声的互联网媒体公司。赫芬顿本人也不是唯一一个被员工批为“喜怒无常、令人烦躁”的总编辑；但是，在所有这些总编辑中，只有她在编辑部里为员工安装了吊床。只有像她这样罕见地兼备强势作风和明朗外表的人，才能一方面运营一个大受欢迎、提供海量内容的新闻网站，另一方面又谆谆告诫我们不要沉湎于互联网。只有她做到了这一点。在《赫芬顿邮报》的亲子频道，最受欢迎的帖子就是迎合那些在深夜上Facebook的母亲们，很显然她们就是希望被告知，不要在这个时候还刷Facebook. “你知道，就是那种‘不要再拖时间，赶快睡觉’‘关掉你的电子设备’的帖子，”邮报的资深社交媒体编辑伊森·费迪达(Ethan Fedida)说。“她们喜欢的不得了。”
It’s as though Huffington is spreading an illness while simultaneously peddling the cure. Call it hypocrisy, but it testifies to her savvy. The business of web media is figuring out what people want — and if what we want is contradictory, why shouldn’t Huffington profit from that contradiction?
赫芬顿好像就是一方面在传播一种疾病，同时又在兜售治病良方。也许可以称之虚伪，但这也证明了她的精明。网络媒体的生意就在于搞清楚人们需要什么——如果我们的需求本身就是互相矛盾的，《赫芬顿邮报》为什么不能以这种矛盾生财？
Huffington may be engaged in a bit of wishful projection when she presents herself as an apostle of serenity. But it is a veneer she never drops, at least in public. At the Barnes & Noble event for ‘‘Thrive’’ last year, the one moderated by Katie Couric, a young woman rose during the question-and-answer session.
赫芬顿把自己打造成“身心宁静”的代言人，也许有点自欺欺人，但她对这个外在形象一以贯之，至少在公众面前从无例外。在去年由凯蒂·库里克主持的那场书店对话中，在问答环节，一位年轻女子站起来提问。
‘‘What do you say to employers who are now seeking people specifically to work in social media?’’ she asked. ‘‘Our job is to be connected 24-7, where we have to manage your Facebook, your Instagram, your Twitter, your Pinterest. How do we detox when we’re told we have to be in the social-media revolution in order to earn our living?’’
“对那些专门招聘社交媒体岗位的雇主，你会怎么说？”她问道。“我们的工作职责就是要每天24小时、一周七天不间断地上网，管理公司的Facebook、Instagram、Twitter、Pinterest账号。我们被告知，要想把社交媒体当做谋生手段，就必须投身社交媒体革命。那我们怎么才能‘解毒’呢？”
After thinking for a moment, Huffington suggested that she tell her employer that tweets can be scheduled in advance, so she doesn’t have to be awake at all hours. Remind your boss that people are paid for their judgment, Huffington added, not their endurance. Couric then asked the young woman, ‘‘You think your boss would be receptive to that?’’
赫芬顿考虑了一下后，建议她对雇主说，可以把一些社交媒体帖子事先准备好，自动定时发布，这样就可以不必废寝忘食。她说，可以告诉你们的雇主，他们雇佣社交媒体编辑为的是他们的判断力，而不是他们的耐力。库里克然后问那位女子，“你觉得你的雇主会接受这种说法吗？”
‘‘No,’’ she said, flatly.
“不会，”她直截了当地说。
All eyes turned back to Huffington. Some bosses are toxic, she offered, so start looking for a new job. With a smile, she added: ‘‘We’re hiring.’’
所有人的眼睛都转向赫芬顿。她说，有些雇主是不可理喻的，那就还是开始另找一份工作吧。她笑着说：“我们可在雇人。”