Your auto insurance policy probably has clauses specifying whether you are covered for damage from missiles, falling objects, riots, civil war, earthquakes, hail, radioactive contamination, discharge of a nuclear weapon. But it’s time once again to check that it also addresses whether you are insured against accidentally driving onto the set of a “Fast & Furious” movie.
你的车险单里很可能会有一些条款，明确说明承保范围是否涵盖导弹、坠落物、骚乱、内战、地震、冰雹、放射性污染或核武器泄露招致的损失。如果误打误撞把车开到《速度与激情》(Fast & Furious)片场，由此造成的损失是否能获理赔，是你要再三确认的事情。
If you blundered into the shooting of “Fast & Furious 6,” for instance, you are almost surely walking now: If the flip-your-car-over speedsters didn’t wreck your vehicle, the giant tank surely did.
还拿误闯《速度与激情6》(Fast & Furious 6)的片场为例。即便你的车躲过了翻个底朝天的飞车袭击，也肯定难逃巨型坦克的魔掌，最终你只能走回家了。
Most of the familiar faces are back for this latest bacchanalia of reckless driving, including Vin Diesel as Dominic Toretto. Toretto is relaxing in fair-weather retirement, living off the big score of the previous movie in the franchise, when he is called back into service, as it were, by Luke Hobbs, the federal agent who both pursues and admires him and his band of renegades.
在最新这部狂野飙车戏中，能看到很多熟悉面孔，包括饰演多米尼克·托雷托(Dominic Toretto)的范·迪塞尔(Vin Diesel)。托雷托靠着在该系列上一部电影中干的一大票，过上了逍遥自在的退休生活。此次出山是受联邦探员卢克·赫伯(Luke Hobbs)之请，后者一方面在追捕托雷托及其一众兄弟，另一方面也很佩服他们。
Hobbs is again played by Dwayne Johnson and his biceps, which get enough camera time that you expect the closing credits to include two arm wranglers, one for each. Mr. Johnson has seemingly been in every movie released in the last two years and has a reality television show, “The Hero,” coming on TNT. But he knows how to deploy his half-dozen expressions — the sly grin, the single-eyebrow arch — and is still a welcome sight, where other actors might by this point be overexposed.
赫伯再次由道恩·强森(Dwayne Johnson)饰演。他的二头肌为他赚得了不少镜头，观众倘若期待在片尾制作班底名单中看到他两位健身教练的名字，也在情理之中。过去两年上映的每部电影里似乎都有强森的身影，他也出现在TNT电视台真人秀节目“谁是英雄”(The Hero)中。但是他深知如何施展他的六种表情——单挑眉毛狡黠地笑是其最经典的表情——换成别人早就令人生倦了，他却一直是观众的心头好。
He also doesn’t hijack this movie the way his character did in the recent “G.I. Joe: Retaliation.” “F&F 6” is still primarily about Toretto and his buddies. It is no spoiler to say that Michelle Rodriguez, seemingly killed off in an earlier film, returns as Letty Ortiz (she’s in the opening credits), Toretto’s tough-as-nails love interest. The gimmick here is that she’s now working for the opposition, mercenaries led by Owen Shaw (Luke Evans). Oh, and she has amnesia and doesn’t remember Toretto.
《速度与激情6》这部片子主要还是围绕托雷托和他的一众弟兄的，强森在该片中的戏份，并没有在他最近主演的“特种部队2：全面反击”(G.I. Joe: Retaliation)中那么多。米歇尔·里德里格兹(Michelle Rodriguez)曾是托雷托的至爱，她在前部戏里似乎已经香消玉殒了，但是在这部戏中，她却以莱蒂·奥提兹(Letty Ortiz)的身份起死回生（莱蒂的名字出现在片头字幕中），我说出来应该不算剧透吧。噱头在于她现在转而为对手卖命，也就是为欧文·肖（Owen Shaw，卢克·伊万斯[Luke Evans]饰）带领的那帮雇佣兵卖命。可惜的是，她得了失忆症，根本记不起托雷托是何许人也。
That provides just enough plot to propel the movie from car chase to car chase. The real question here is whether Justin Lin, the director of this film and three of its predecessors, can top himself. The climactic sequence of his “Fast Five” involved a preposterous scene in which racecars towed a giant bank vault through the streets at high speed.
这些情节已足够推动影片上演一场又一场飙车戏了。真正的问题在于，导演林诣彬(Justin Lin)能否超越他自己，本片以及系列之前中的三部都是由他导演的。他执导的《速度与激情5》的高潮部分出现了非常离奇的一幕：飞车拖着一个巨大的银行金库急速穿过街道。
Here Mr. Lin offers two tricks. The bad guys have flip cars, sleek machines whose armor-plated front ends are designed so that when they strike another vehicle, it goes spinning through the air. And in a later chase, Shaw and friends pull out a formidable tank that turns any vehicle it encounters into squished scrap metal.
林导演在第6部中使出了两个“杀手锏”。一是反派们配备的豪华翻转飞车，这种飞车前端装有装甲防御层，这样的设计使得他们的车与别的车相撞时总能把对方撞飞到半空。二是在后面的飙车中肖和他那伙匪徒亮出的坦克，这种坦克所向披靡，任何迎面撞上来的车都能被它碾成废铜烂铁。
These flashy smashies and a climactic sequence, in which the good guys try to prevent Shaw from taking off in an airliner by tethering their cars to it, make the movie a satisfying thrill ride, at least on a par with the earlier installments. A nice twist near the end is well disguised, and a coda hints at what’s to come in Part 7.
影片的高潮部分，正义一方把汽车拴在肖乘坐的飞机后面，竭力阻止他潜逃。这样火爆的场面以及上文提到的“兵戎相见、火花四溅”的刺激场面，足以让观众大饱眼福、直呼过瘾，至少不比之前的逊色。结尾处，情节逆转，暗藏伏笔，揭开了第7部的“冰山一角”。