MARTINBOROUGH, New Zealand
新西兰马丁博罗
THERE is no Pandora. But Pounui Ridge, roughly 20 miles from this Wairarapa Valley wine town, comes close.
潘多拉是不存在的。但是，距离红酒小镇怀拉拉帕20英里远的珀奴伊岭(Pounui Ridge)，那里如同现实世界的潘多拉。
There is the 3-D Imax-scale view for instance. Toward the south is the open Pacific, stretching 2,000 miles, straight to Antarctica. The choppy waters of Cook Strait lie to the west, with the jagged mountains of New Zealand’s South Island rising in snowcapped splendor in the distance.
比如说，这里有Imax级别的3D风景。往南是太平洋，掠过2千多公里的汪洋大海，就是南极洲了。西边是库克海峡的汹涌波涛，新西兰南岛的群山雪峰是远方地平线上升起的壮丽奇景。
Pandora, James Cameron’s mythical “Avatar” planet, overflows with odd wildlife, and so does Pounui. Consider the eels. After living in a freshwater lake here, they slither to the sea and spawn near the faraway island of Tonga. In a life cycle rooted in Miocene times, their elvers — leaf-shaped offspring — ride the currents back to Lake Pounui.
在詹姆斯·卡梅隆的潘多拉，也就是《阿凡达》中的虚构星球上，生活着大量稀奇古怪的野生动物,珀奴伊也是。以鳗鱼为例，它们在这里的一个淡水湖中生活，而后游向大海，在远方的汤加岛附近海域产卵。鳗鱼物种发端于中新世，在漫长的岁月里，叶子形状的新生幼鳗一直是顺着洋流漂回到珀奴伊湖里的。
And when the next eels arrive, oddly enough, they may spot Mr. Cameron. “I’m anxious to throw on a scuba tank and get down there,” he said by phone the other day.
下一批鳗鱼在到来之际可能会意外地见到詹姆斯·卡梅隆。“我等不及要放一艘潜艇下去看看了，”有一天他在电话里说。
This year, shortly before his solo trip to the bottom of the Mariana Trench, Mr. Cameron, the filmmaker-adventurer, spent an estimated $16 million to buy 2,500 acres of farmland around Lake Pounui (pronounced po-NEW-ee). Now he expects to absorb its magic while creating some of his own in a pair of sequels that will build on the story of Pandora and on an ecological mythos that helped make “Avatar,” released by 20th Century Fox in 2009, the biggest-selling film of all time.
刚刚独自一人沉到马里亚纳海沟玩了一趟的电影人、探险家卡梅隆，今年花了1600万美元在珀奴伊湖附近买了10平方公里的土地。他希望能吸收这里的魔力，创造出他自己的魔幻作品——以潘多拉的故事和《阿凡达》的生态神话为基础创作的两部续集。《阿凡达》在 2009年由二十世纪福克斯公司发行后成为有史以来票房收入最高的电影。
In a country that is now strongly identified in the world’s imagination with Peter Jackson and his “Lord of the Rings” films, Mr. Cameron arrives with the promise of not just an outsider’s eye but also a new national brand and a next wave of employment for hundreds of New Zealanders who are expected to work on “Avatar 2” and “Avatar 3.” (News media reports of “Avatar 4” are premature, although Mr. Cameron hasn’t ruled it out.)
新西兰的国际形象已经被牢牢固定在彼得·杰克逊的“魔戒”系列上了，卡梅隆带来的不仅仅是一个“外地人”的视角，对成百上千希望为《阿凡达2》和《阿凡达3》工作的新西兰人来说，这更是一个新的国家品牌，以及一批新增的工作机会。（媒体大肆宣传的《阿凡达4》缺乏依据，不过卡梅隆并没有彻底否决这个想法。)
The prospect excites New Zealand’s government, which is counting on big-budget Hollywood-style filmmaking as a growth industry. Mr. Jackson is at work on “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey” and a sequel, “There and Back Again,” but adding Mr. Cameron’s professional presence permanently — he shot parts of the first “Avatar” in Wellington and completed its visual effects work there — would almost certainly “move the dial” of the national economy, said Steven Joyce, the country’s economic development minister.
新西兰政府对此事非常看好，他们寄望于好莱坞大制作电影拍摄能成为该国的一个增长型行业。杰克逊正在制作《霍比特人：意外旅程》 (The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey)及其续集《奇境再返》(There and Back Again)。但是卡梅隆要在新西兰设下永久性的工作场所（《阿凡达》第一部有一部分是在新西兰首都惠灵顿拍摄的，所有的特效工作都是在那里做的），这对新西兰的国民经济将是一个“整体性的改变”，该国经济发展部长史蒂芬·乔伊斯(Steven Joyce)说。
Still, Mr. Cameron’s purchase of the Lake Pounui property has also coincided with escalating fears here about a land grab by wealthy foreigners. Recently, for instance, New Zealanders had a conniption over the sale of 16 dairy farms to a Chinese company. (A court fight over the deal continues.) Mr. Cameron’s arrival added fuel to the media fire. “Hordes are bound to follow from Hollywood,” Stephen Oliver wrote in The Waikato Times on April 2, poking fun at the outcry by envisioning pristine hillsides “festooned with trophy homes” in an “obscene showcase of bad taste.”
不过，卡梅隆此次在珀奴伊湖置业时，本地人正在担忧土地被富有的外国人抢走，这种情绪在逐渐加剧。比如最近一家中国公司买下了16个奶牛场，新西兰人正懊恼着呢。（关于这笔交易的诉讼仍在进行当中。）卡梅隆的到来无异于给媒体烧起的大火添了一把柴。“接着肯定还有一大群人要从好莱坞过来，”史蒂芬·奥利佛(Stephen Oliver)在4月2日的《怀卡托时报》上写道，他为抗议活动煽风点火，展望那些原生态的山峦上即将出现的情景：“暴发户的豪宅如彩灯般点缀其间”，“各色令人作呕的糟糕品味竞相展现”。
Some of Mr. Cameron’s new neighbors seem to have an open mind. But most worry about his ability to inhabit this paradise without becoming the kind of disrupter he pilloried in “Avatar.” Will the millions he plunked down for the property increase everyone’s taxes? What about continued access to Lake Pounui for the eel researchers at Victoria University of Wellington? Mr. Cameron has already closed a little hall on his land that had been used for wedding receptions, thus severing the public from what locals now refer to as “his lake.”
卡梅隆的一些新邻居似乎还是比较开通的。但是多数人担心他住进这人间天堂后，会变成他在《阿凡达》里痛斥过的那些入侵者。他为了置地投下大把钞票，这会导致其他人税赋增加吗？惠灵顿维多利亚大学的鳗鱼研究者还能继续进入珀奴伊湖一带吗？卡梅隆已经关闭了他地盘里一座原本用来开婚礼招待会的小礼堂，因此也就把公众和这个当地人现今称为“他的湖”的地方隔离开了。
There is also the question of what Mr. Cameron farms. To obtain governmental approval to buy the land, he had to agree to keep at least part of it as a working farm. But the current operation — built mostly around cows — poses a problem for Mr. Cameron, who said his wife, Suzy Amis, had pushed him and their children toward a plant-based diet. “So we’re looking for something more crop based,” Mr. Cameron explained. “I don’t want to be a hypocrite.”
还有一个疑问就是卡梅隆的农场要经营些什么。为了获得政府的购地许可，他已经同意至少要把土地的一部分拿出来从事农业生产。然而农场目前的运营基本上是围绕着养牛进行的，这给卡梅隆出了一道难题，因为他妻子苏西·艾米斯(Suzy Amis)一直主张让他和孩子们建立蔬食的习惯。“所以我们在考虑一些种植类的东西，”卡梅隆说：“我不想被人当伪君子。”
‘WHO IS James Cameron?”
“詹姆斯·卡梅隆是谁?”
Adrienne Staples, mayor of the South Wairarapa District Council, recalls that being her first reaction when told in early February that a supposedly famous filmmaker had bought farmland in her zone.
2月初，有人对南怀拉拉帕区议会的市长艾德离岸·斯台普斯(Adrienne Staples)说：有一个据称是大导演的人在她的辖区买了一块地。她回忆自己当时的第一反应就是这样的。
It was not a particularly easy day for Ms. Staples. An avid horsewoman, she was trying to impregnate a mare with semen being flown to Wellington from a Spanish stallion on the South Island. She drove across the Rimutaka Range, twice, to get the semen; juggled calls from the press; and offered to bake Mr. Cameron a cake, because, after all, this is rural New Zealand.
这一天下来斯台普斯可不容易。她是个狂热的马迷，当时正在张罗着给一匹母马授精，精子来自南岛的一匹西班牙种马，被空运到惠灵顿。她开车两次翻越里姆塔卡山脉取回精子；躲避媒体的电话;跟卡梅隆说要烤个蛋糕给他——再怎么说，这里毕竟是新西兰乡下。
The district and its three principal towns — Featherston, Greytown and Martinborough — have fewer than 10,000 total residents.
这个辖区内的三个主要的镇子——费瑟斯顿、格雷斯顿和马丁博罗 ——加起来居民不到一万人。
There is one world-class resort, Wharekauhau, which nestles almost against the coast, at the valley’s south end. It is owned by a wealthy American, William Foley, who made his mark as the chief executive of Fidelity National Financial. Other members of the financial or film elite with property in the area include the retired hedge fund tycoon Julian H. Robertson Jr. Mr. Cameron’s close neighbors are Patsy Reddy, chairwoman of the New Zealand film commission, and her husband, Sir David Gascoigne, who was previously on the commission. Mr. Jackson, with his life partner, Fran Walsh, owns a home north of Lake Pounui. (Mr. Jackson keeps part of his collection of World War I-era planes at the local airdrome.)
这里有一个世界级的度假酒店瓦瑞考豪(Wharekauhau)，坐落在山谷的南端靠海的地方。老板是富有的美国人威廉·弗雷(William Foley)，因为在富达国民金融(Fidelity National Financial)做过CEO 而成名。其他在这一带置业的金融和电影界精英包括已经退隐的对冲基金大亨小朱利安·H· 罗伯逊(Julian H. Robertson Jr.)，卡梅隆的邻 居还有新西兰电影委员会主席派西·雷迪(Patsy Reddy)，她的丈夫戴维·加斯库恩爵士(Sir David Gascoigne)也曾供职于委员会。杰克逊和他的人生伴侣弗兰·威尔什(Fran Walsh)在珀奴伊湖北边有一座房子，杰克逊收藏的一战时期飞机就存放在当地的机场。
Around Martinborough too is some respectable wine country. At Ata Rangi, for instance (in Maori, it means “dawn sky”), Clive Paton makes pinot noir, sauvignon blanc and very crisp Chardonnays on land that was once thought useless.
马丁博罗一带有一些产红酒的村子名声也很大。比如在阿塔-兰吉（Ata Rangi，毛利语“黎明天空”的意思）的克莱夫·帕顿出产“黑皮诺”和“长相思”。还有非常爽口的“霞多丽”，制作它所用的白葡萄原先一度被当作没用的东西。
Mostly, though, the land harbors sheep and cattle, long the staple of New Zealand’s economy. A few miles from Mr. Cameron’s new homestead is the Mathews farm, where a father and son graze sheep on rolling hills purchased in the mid-19th century. Raymond, the son, said he applauds Mr. Cameron’s arrival in the Wairarapa, which can use the work he is already bringing to contractors and handymen who have been fixing up a four-bedroom home amid a stand of black beech above Lake Pounui.
不过多数地方还是以养牛羊为主,这一直是新西兰的经济支柱。距离卡梅隆的新农庄几英里开外有一个马修斯农场，一对父子在山坡上养羊，他们自十九世纪中期就拥有这块地了。儿子雷蒙德说他欢迎卡梅隆先生到怀拉拉帕来，他已经雇了承建商和工匠，打算在珀奴伊湖北边的一片桦木林里修一个带四间卧室的房子，正好派上用场。
But Charles Mathews has reservations. Mr. Cameron, he said, overpaid for land that had been on the market since 2004. “I just hope it doesn’t affect all of our rates,” he said.
查尔斯·马修斯(Charles Mathews)对此则有些保留。他说那块地2004 年就已经挂牌出售，卡梅隆的出价过高了。“我只是希望别因此影响到我们大家的税，”他说。 
Ms. Staples hopes Mr. Cameron will ultimately engage with the locals, something he promised in an interview he would do — potentially discussing, for instance, how to improve the quality of soil on his new land so that he can grow crops. But the “I’m the king of the world!” director (his words on winning the best director Oscar for “Titanic” in 1998) also does not seem overly concerned with pleasing everybody. Asked if he might reopen that wedding hall, Mr. Cameron paused a bit, then said, “That’s going to be my workshop.” IN THE OCEANFRONT HILLS and cliffs surrounding Pounui, Ms. Staples said, are hundreds of unmarked Maori archaeological sites, including at least one that appears to predate a traditional timeline that traces Maori settlement to the 14th century.
斯台普斯希望卡梅隆最终能和当地人建立联系，他在接受采访时承诺过要这么做的——例如和本地人商谈如何改善这块地的土壤质量，好用来种庄稼。但是这位自称“我是世界之王”的导演（这是他在1998年 凭借《泰坦尼克号》获得奥斯卡最佳导演奖时说的话）看起来并不是很在意能不能取悦大家。问及他会不会重新开放婚礼礼堂，卡梅隆顿了一下说：“那里会是我的工作间。”斯台普斯说，在珀奴伊湖周围的滨海群山和悬崖中有无数没有标记的毛利人遗迹，传统上认为毛利人在此地的居住最早可以追溯到14世纪，但这里至少有一处遗迹要早于这个时间。
The hidden presence of a native culture is one more echo of Pandora, of course.
隐密的土著文化,自然是另一个和潘多拉形成呼应的地方。 
But it was ultimately New Zealand’s contemporary film culture that persuaded Mr. Cameron to shift his work life, in stages, toward the Southern Hemisphere. New Zealand film crews, he said, have a freshness and flexibility he no longer finds in the United States. “They aren’t the sort of third-generation people you find working on soundstages in a very jaded Los Angeles,” he contended.
“两个茶水事件”
但是，卡梅隆之所以逐步地把自己的工作转移到南半球，归根结底还是被新西兰的当代电影文化征服了。他说新西兰的电影工作人员有一种清新而灵活的气质，这在美国已经找不到了。“他们不像在倦怠的洛杉矶的某个摄影棚里工作的那种‘第三代’，”他直截了当地说。
Ask New Zealanders who worked on “Avatar” about Mr. Cameron and their eyes tend to grow big. “You have to understand that we don’t have much experience outside of Peter, who is soft-spoken and gentle,” said one senior prop technician, who asked for anonymity because he hopes to get a job on the “Avatar” sequels. “Jim Cameron sometimes shouted at us, and our instinct was to take it personally.”
你要是向在《阿凡达》剧组里工作的新西兰人提起卡梅隆，他们的眼睛会一下子瞪得大大的。“你得明白一点，除了说话轻声细气的彼得· 杰克逊，我们其实没什么别的经验，”其中一个老资格的道具师说，他要求在本文中匿名，因为他还指望在《阿凡达》续集里担任差事。“吉姆·卡梅隆（卡梅隆的昵称——编注）有时候会冲我们吼，这个我们本能上是会往心里去的。”
The difference between the two cinema titans is highlighted by what several longtime film workers in New Zealand referred to as “the two tea incidents.” Years ago the strong-willed Mr. Cameron, annoyed that his “Aliens” crew in England was taking a break, kicked over a tea cart — a tale that has followed him over time, in part because he personally retells it. In contrast, an anecdote about Mr. Jackson involves the time when there was confusion among new staffers over who was responsible for fetching him tea; multiple people kept arriving with steaming mugs, and, worried about offending anyone by speaking up, he spent the day politely accepting them.
许多从业多年的新西兰电影员工用“两个茶水事件”来概括两位电影大师的区别。几年前在英格兰拍摄《异形2》(Aliens)的时候,个性固执的卡梅隆对员工停下来休息很不满，一脚踹翻了茶水车——从此他到哪儿，这个故事就流传到哪儿，一定程度上是因为他自己也会拿出来说。这和杰克逊的一则趣闻形成鲜明对比——有一次新来的员工之间有些乱，搞不清是谁负责给他倒茶；好几个人连番拿着热气腾腾的茶杯过来，因为怕说出来会伤害别人，那一整天他一直客客气气地接过那些茶。 
The “Avatar” sequels, Mr. Cameron said, will almost certainly be shot in Mr. Jackson’s Wellington production studio, about 15 minutes by helicopter from Pounui. Visual effects will be completed at nearby Weta Digital, owned by Mr. Jackson and his partners, though motion-capture work on the “Avatar” sequels will still be done on a stage in California. “Avatar 2” will not be ready until 2015 or later, at least a year past the 2014 date Fox executives once had in mind.
卡梅隆说《阿凡达》续集几乎肯定是要在杰克逊的惠灵顿工作室拍摄，从珀奴伊坐直升机到工作室大概15分钟。视觉特效将在附近的维塔数码完成——杰克逊是公司合伙人之一；不过运动捕捉部分的工作还是会放在加州的一个摄影棚。《阿凡达 2》最早要到2015年才能完成，比福克斯高层原本计划的2014年晚了一年以上。
Mr. Jackson said he was thrilled by Mr. Cameron’s decision to put down roots in New Zealand. “Maybe I can go wander off on a beach somewhere now,” he said with a smile, an apparent reference to the pressure he feels to keep big movies moving through his Wellington studio and effects operation. Mr. Jackson, while notably trying to steer clear of the brouhaha over Mr. Cameron’s land purchase, said he sees Mr. Cameron as a type of kindred spirit, someone, at long last, who was equally fascinated with pushing the technological limits on film.
杰克逊说他对卡梅隆在新西兰扎根的打算感到很高兴。“现在我大概可以找个什么海滩悠闲漫步了，”他笑着说，显然这指的是他的惠灵顿工作室和特效业务方面有压力，需要不断地有大制作电影项目进来。杰克逊明显想避开卡梅隆购地这个棘手的话题，不过他视卡梅隆为同道中人，说到底两人都是痴迷于挑战电影技术极限的人。
“I want to help in any way I can,” Mr. Cameron said, while also talking of emulating Mr. Jackson, perhaps by building new facilities farther north, in Auckland. But Mr. Cameron, an outsider still, is careful not to challenge.
“我一定会尽力帮忙的，”卡梅隆说，虽然他也提到想要效仿杰克逊，可能在北方的奥克兰兴建一些制作机构。不过他毕竟是个异乡人，还是要小心不要威胁到别人。
“I’m not there to compete with Peter,” he said.
“我不是去那跟彼得竞争的，”他说。
FOR NOW MR. CAMERON remains based at his home near Santa Barbara, Calif., where he is at work on scripts for the “Avatar” sequels. In the American fall, when spring comes to New Zealand, he said he plans to decamp for Pounui, to continue writing and to let his family acclimate to a place that he said will eventually become home for at least half the year. Mr. Cameron, Canadian born, does not rule out a request for citizenship.
目前卡梅隆还是住在加州圣芭芭拉附近的家中写《阿凡达》续集的剧本。他说他的计划是在美国的秋天，也就是新西兰开春的时候，举家前往珀奴伊，他会在那里继续写剧本，让家人适应这个地方，他说最终一年里至少会有一半的时间要住在这里。加拿大出生的卡梅隆不排除申请新西兰国籍的可能。
“I’ve felt an attachment to the place since 1994,” he explained. That year Mr. Cameron was marooned for weeks on the South Island while working out the tangled logistics of a trip to Antarctica. So he did a bit of touring that showed him a country that he found both familiar — full of associations to small-town Ontario, where he grew up — and wildly exotic, with glaciers, fjords and, yes, eels. “The people were polite, and they were decent,” he said.
“我对这里的特殊感情从1994年就开始了，”他说。那年为了准备去南极洲的旅行，卡梅隆被迫待在南岛几周时间，处理杂乱的后勤给养事务。然后他就四处走了走，发现这个国家跟他的故乡加拿大安大略省充满相似之处，让他感到熟悉；与此同时又充满异域风情，有冰川、峡湾,当然,还有鳗鱼。“这里的人有教养，是体面人，”他说。 
He long wanted a home in New Zealand, but “it sometimes take me a long time to do the things I set out to do,” he said. In recent weeks he has continued to buy land in Pounui. His latest purchase more or less reassembles an original homestead owned by a family that was also named Cameron.
他一直想在新西兰有个家，只是“有的事我早就做了打算，但会隔上很久才真的去做，”他说。近几周他还是继续在珀奴伊一带买地。最新购入的一块地多少有点像一座家宅，主人也是一家姓卡梅隆的。
“Kismet,” Mr. Cameron called it.
卡梅隆管这叫“命运”。