“Blue Is the Warmest Color” is a feverish, generous, exhausting love story, the chronicle of a young woman’s passage from curiosity to heartbreak by way of a wrenching and blissful attachment to another, slightly older woman. Although there is plenty of weeping and sighing, the methods of the director, Abdellatif Kechiche, are less melodramatic than meteorological. He studies the radar and scans the horizon in search of emotional weather patterns and then rushes out into the gale, dragging the audience through fierce winds and soul-battering squalls.
《阿黛尔的生活》(Blue Is the Warmest Color)讲述了一个狂热、丰富、让人精疲力竭的爱情故事，记录了一个年轻女人从好奇到心碎的心路历程，源于她对一个比她略为年长的女人的依恋，既痛彻心扉又充满喜悦。虽然片中有很多哭泣和叹息，但是导演阿布戴-柯西胥(Abdellatif Kechiche)采用的不是伤感夸张的拍摄手法，而更像气象学手法。他研究雷达，察看地平线，寻找令人激动的天气模式，然后冲进狂风，带着观众穿过猛烈的大风和击打灵魂的暴风。
The storm system we are tracking is named Adèle. Played with astonishing sensitivity by the 19-year-old Adèle Exarchopoulos, she gives every appearance, when we first encounter her, of being an ordinary French teenager: running to catch the morning bus to school, daydreaming in class, trading gossip with her friends in the cafeteria. Her transformation, before our eyes and in close-ups that register every stray tendril of hair and fluctuation of skin tone, is not necessarily into anything more extraordinary. The child of a lower-middle-class family in the northern industrial city of Lille, Adèle is pointedly and contentedly modest in her ambitions. She likes reading and eating (especially her father’s spaghetti) and aspires to a career as a schoolteacher.
我们正在追踪的暴风名叫阿黛尔(Adèle)。19岁的阿黛尔·艾克阿切波洛斯(Adèle Exarchopoulos)以令人惊讶的敏感演绎了这一角色。我们刚见到她的时候，她展示出普通法国女孩的每一面：跑着去赶早上的校车；在课堂上出神；在食堂里和朋友们交换小道消息。特写镜头记录了她的每一根不规矩的卷发和肤色的变化，在我们眼中，她似乎不会变成更出众的人物。阿黛尔出身于北方工业城市里尔的一个中低阶层家庭，她显然没有很大的志向，也安于现状。她喜欢读书和美食（特别是她爸爸做的意大利面），计划将来当老师。
And yet, over the course of nearly three hours and what seems like about a half-dozen years (Mr. Kechiche is not fussy about marking the passage of time), Adèle acquires a depth and grandeur that make her equal to some of the great heroines of literature. For a while, as with Anna Karenina or Elizabeth Bennet or Clarissa Dalloway, her life is also yours, and afterward you may discover that yours has altered as a result of the encounter.
但是经过将近三个小时，也就是电影中的大约六年时间（柯西胥并不注重标明时间的流逝），阿黛尔有了一种深度和壮丽，让她能与文学作品中的一些著名女主人公相提并论。有这么一段时间，你活在她的世界里，就像你曾经活在安娜·卡利尼娜(Anna Karenina)、伊丽莎白·班内特(Elizabeth Bennet)或克拉丽莎·达洛维(Clarissa Dalloway)的世界里一样，之后你可能会发现你的生活也因为这种体验发生了变化。
“Blue Is the Warmest Color” is the loose amalgam of two literary sources: Julie Maroh’s compact graphic novel of the same title (published in 2010) and “La Vie de Marianne,” a sprawling, unfinished doorstop of a book by the 18th-century author Pierre de Marivaux. (In the movie, Adèle calls it her favorite novel.) The film’s focus is nonetheless resolutely contemporary and its achievement decidedly cinematic. Immersing us in the everyday facts of 21st-century French life — including school, politics, food, wine and sex — Mr. Kechiche illuminates the suffering and ecstasy of an awakening consciousness.
《阿黛尔的生活》把两部文学作品松散地混合在一起：朱莉·马罗(Julie Maroh)紧凑、生动的同名小说（出版于2010年）以及18世纪作家皮埃尔·德·马里沃(Pierre de Marivaux)松散的烂尾小说《玛丽安的生活》（La Vie de Marianne，在这部电影中，阿黛尔称这本书是她最喜欢的小说）。不过这部电影关注的重点绝对是当代，它的成就无疑在电影方面。柯西胥让我们沉浸在21世纪法国的日常生活中，包括学校、政治、美食、美酒和性爱，阐明了觉醒的意识带来的折磨与狂喜。
Ms. Exarchopoulos almost never departs from the camera’s scrutiny, and her reality, her ways of seeing and feeling, define the many shades of “Blue.” Mr. Kechiche’s earlier films include “The Secret of the Grain,” a similarly messy and capacious consideration of the life of a North African immigrant in France and his extended family, and “Games of Love and Chance” (“L’Esquive”), which sets a Marivaux comedy in a rough housing project in the Paris suburbs. He rarely allows the machinery of plot to distract him from the tangents of talk, and the first part of “Blue” is preoccupied with what seem to be extraneous, trivial arguments and conversations. Adèle chats about boys with the girls at school, and about music and books with a boy named Thomas (Jérémie Laheurte), who briefly becomes her boyfriend. She naps, snacks, studies and pushes her unruly hair into a ragged ponytail atop her head.
艾克阿切波洛斯几乎从未离开摄像机的审视，她的生活、她的所见所感是这部电影的主要内容。柯西胥之前的电影包括《谷子和鲻鱼》(The Secret of the Grain)和《爱情躲猫猫》(Games of Love and Chance)。前者讲述的是一个法国北非移民和他的大家庭的生活，和《阿黛尔的生活》一样散乱、广博；后者讲述的是巴黎郊区的一个糟糕的住宅项目，是个马里沃式的喜剧。他很少让情节制约他漫无边际的闲谈，《阿黛尔的生活》的第一部分充满了貌似毫无关联的、琐碎的争执和对话。阿黛尔在学校里和女孩子们谈论男生，和一个名叫托马斯（Thomas，热雷米·拉厄尔特[Jérémie Laheurte]饰）的男孩谈论音乐和图书，托马斯短暂地做过她的男朋友。她小睡，吃零食，学习，把不规矩的头发潦草地在头顶上扎成马尾。
Then one day, she crosses paths with Emma (Léa Seydoux), and everything changes. Emma, blue-haired and fox-eyed, walks past Adèle in the street, shows up in her dreams and flirts with her in a lesbian bar. “I came here by chance,” Adèle says, which is only half-true. She was not exactly looking for Emma, or for anyone in particular, but rather for confirmation of a hunch about her own desires, something Emma is happy to provide.
然后有一天，她遇到了艾玛（Emma，蕾雅·赛杜[Léa Seydoux]饰），一切随之改变。艾玛的头发染成蓝色，眼睛像狐狸一样，她在大街上从阿黛尔身边经过，在她梦中出现，在同性恋酒吧跟她调情。“我是偶然来这里的，”阿黛尔说。她说的不全是实话。她不是确切地来找艾玛或者某个人，而是为了证实她对自己欲望的一种直觉，而艾玛乐于满足她的欲望。
Emma, an art student and an aspiring painter, relishes the role of mentor. A bit pompously, she lectures Adèle on the ideas of Jean-Paul Sartre — she sees him, not altogether implausibly, as a forerunner of gay liberation — and offers to tutor her in philosophy. Later, when they are more or less securely established as a couple, Emma prods Adèle toward loftier ambitions, almost as if she is embarrassed to be with someone so down to earth.
艾玛是艺术专业的学生，立志当个画家，她很喜欢扮演导师的角色。她带着点傲慢给阿黛尔传授让-保罗·萨特(Jean-Paul Sartre)的观念——她理所当然地把他看做同性恋解放运动的先驱——主动要求在哲学方面指导她。后来，在她们比较稳定地确立情侣关系之后，艾玛敦促阿黛尔追求更高的目标，好像跟这么实际的人在一起让她有点难堪。
There is a subtle but unmistakable class difference between them. When Adèle has dinner with Emma’s mother and stepfather, she is served oysters and high-flown conversation about the value of culture. At Adèle’s house, Emma eats pasta and gets a paternal talking-to about the frivolity of art and the importance of making a living. Emma is proudly out. Adèle is, somewhat defiantly, closeted. There are unspoken tensions and imbalances between them that eventually erupt with shattering force.
她们的阶级差异不明显，但是肯定存在。阿黛尔同艾玛的母亲和继父用餐时，她们一边吃牡蛎，一边高谈阔论文化的价值。在阿黛尔家，艾玛一边吃意大利面，一边听阿黛尔的父母谈论艺术的轻浮和谋生的重要性。艾玛骄傲地公开自己的同性恋身份。阿黛尔没有公开，这多少有点挑衅的意味。她们之间存在不言而喻的矛盾和不平衡，最终带着令人震惊的威力爆发了。
When “Blue Is the Warmest Color” was shown at Cannes in May — where the jury, headed by Steven Spielberg, took the unusual step of awarding the festival’s highest prize jointly to Mr. Kechiche, Ms. Exarchopoulos and Ms. Seydoux — much attention was paid to its explicit sex scenes. Not without reason. One sequence in particular is longer and more literal than anything you are likely to encounter outside of pornography. Ms. Maroh (among others) objected that Mr. Kechiche’s rendering of her work was indeed pornographic, reflecting a prurient male fantasy rather than the truth of lesbian sex.
在5月份的戛纳电影节上，以斯蒂芬·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)为首的评委会不同寻常地把该电影节的最高奖项颁发给了三个人：柯西胥、艾克阿切波洛斯和赛杜。在电影节上放映时，片中赤裸裸的性爱场面吸引了很多关注。这不是没有原因的。其中有场戏比你在黄片之外可能看到的任何一幕都跟更长、更直白。马罗（还有其他一些人）批评柯西胥对她作品的演绎其实是出于色情目的，是好色男人的性幻想，而非女同性恋性爱的实情。
A conversation late in the movie (after most of the on-screen sex has taken place) seems to anticipate this criticism, as does an earlier scene in which Adèle and Emma visit a museum and gaze at paintings and sculptures of naked women, almost all of them produced by men. The conversation features a male gallery owner who rambles on breathlessly about the power and mystery of female sexuality, which has fascinated male artists for centuries.
影片前半部分的一幕和后半部分的一个对话（在大部分银幕性爱发生之后）似乎都预测到了这种批评。在前面那一幕中，阿黛尔和艾玛参观博物馆，凝视裸体女人的图画和雕塑，几乎所有作品都是男人创作的；在后面的对话中，一个男性画廊老板呼吸急促地漫谈女性性欲的魔力和神秘，说几个世纪来男性艺术家们都为它着迷。
A parallel argument between Emma and another woman about the relative merits of Egon Schiele and Gustav Klimt — tireless painters of the female form, as is Emma herself — underlines the theme. All this talk may be an attempt by Mr. Kechiche to cover his own backside while Ms. Exarchopoulos’s and Ms. Seydoux’s are on full, undraped display. Like Titian or Degas or Flaubert, he just can’t help it.
艾玛和另一个女人对埃贡·席勒(Egon Schiele)和古斯塔夫·克里姆特(Gustav Klimt)的优劣展开争论，也强调了这个主题。这两位画家和艾玛本人一样孜孜不倦地以女性身体为主题。所有这些对话也许是柯西胥在为自己让艾克阿切波洛斯和塞杜在片中全裸上阵而辩护。像提香(Titian)、德加斯(Degas)或福楼拜(Flaubert)一样，他只是情不自禁地这样做了。
But “Blue Is the Warmest Color” is ardently and sincerely committed to capturing the fullness of Adèle’s experience — sensory, cerebral and emotional. The sex is essential to that intention, even though Mr. Kechiche’s way of filming does not quite succeed in fulfilling it. Trying to push the boundaries of empathy, to communicate physical rapture by visual means, he bumps into the limits of the medium and lapses into voyeurism, turning erotic sensation into a spectacle of flesh.
但是《阿黛尔的生活》是真诚、热切地想展现阿黛尔的全部体验——感性的、理性的和情绪上的体验。性爱对实现这个目标至关重要，尽管柯西胥的拍摄手法并没有成功地实现这一点。他试图超越了移情作用的界限，通过视觉方式传达肉体上的狂喜，所以触碰了电影这一视觉媒介的极限，沦为窥阴癖，把情色感受变成了肉体景观。
That is a small failure, given the scale of this movie’s achievement, which belongs equally (as the Cannes jury recognized) to the director and the actresses. The film is at times as sloppy as its heroine, with her runny nose and unruly hair, but it is never dull, lazy or predictable. Mr. Kechiche’s style is dizzy, obsessive, inspired and relentless, words that also describe Adèle and Emma and the fearless women who embody them. Many more words can — and will — be spent on “Blue Is the Warmest Color,” but for now I’ll settle for just one: glorious.
考虑到这部电影的巨大成就——（就像戛纳评委会认可的那样）它的成就平等地属于导演和两位演员——上述这个问题只是小小的失败。这部电影有时像它的女主人公一样粗枝大叶——比如她的鼻涕和乱糟糟的头发——但绝不枯燥、拖沓或平淡无奇。柯西胥的风格是让人头晕、执迷不悟、充满灵感、坚持不懈，这几个词也能用来描述阿黛尔和艾玛以及演绎她们的两个无畏的女人。还有很多词可以或即将用来描述《阿黛尔的生活》，但是目前我只说一个词：精彩。