LOS ANGELES — J. D. Salinger may not be done publishing after all, according to claims in a new film and book set for release next week.
洛杉矶——将于下周面世的一部电影和一本书显示，J·D·塞林格(J. D. Salinger)的出版生涯可能远没有结束。
Mr. Salinger, who died in 2010 at the age of 91, has been known for a distinguished but scant literary oeuvre that was capped by the enormous success of his 1951 novel, “The Catcher in the Rye.”
塞林格于2010年去世，享年91岁，他是一位产出极少的杰出作家，巅峰作品是1951年出版并获得巨大成功的小说《麦田里的守望者》(The Catcher in the Rye)。
But a forthcoming documentary and related book, both titled “Salinger,” include detailed assertions that Mr. Salinger instructed his estate to publish at least five additional books — some of them entirely new, some extending past work — in a sequence that he intended to begin as early as 2015.
但是以“塞林格”为名的一部即将上映的纪录片以及一本配套的书却有理有据地指出，塞林格曾指示他的遗产执行人至少再为他出五本书，其中一些是全新作品，另一些则是过去作品的延续，他希望这一系列书籍最早从2015年开始出版。
The new books and stories were largely written before Mr. Salinger assigned his output to a trust in 2008, and would greatly expand the Salinger legacy.
这些作品中的多数是在2008年塞林格将他所有作品委托给一个信托机构来管理之前完成的，将极大地丰富塞林格的遗产。
One collection, to be called “The Family Glass,” would add five new stories to an assembly of previously published stories about the fictional Glass family, which figured in Mr. Salinger’s “Franny and Zooey” and elsewhere, according to the claims, which surfaced in interviews and previews of the documentary and book last week.
根据这些说法，其中一部称为《格拉斯家族》(The Family Glass)的文集将在以前出版的有关格拉斯家族的短篇作品的基础上再增加五部新的短篇小说，塞林格在其作品《弗兰妮与祖伊》(Franny and Zooey)一书中描述了格拉斯家族。这些说法出现在了上周的一些采访和对纪录片及新书的预告中。
Another would include a retooled version of a publicly known but unpublished tale, “The Last and Best of the Peter Pans,” which is to be collected with new stories and existing work about the fictional Caulfields, including “Catcher in the Rye.” The new works are said to include a story-filled “manual” of the Vedanta religious philosophy, with which Mr. Salinger was deeply involved; a novel set during World War II and based on his first marriage; and a novella modeled on his own war experiences.
另一部作品则包括了《最后与最优秀的彼得潘》(The Last and Best of the Peter Pans)的修订版，这部短篇小说为人们所熟知但却没有出版，在这部作品中，它将与一些新的短篇小说和已有的关于考尔菲德(Caulfield)的作品集合在一起，其中包括《麦田里的守望者》。据说新书中会有一本以多个故事形式展现的吠檀多(Vedanta)宗教哲学“手册”，塞林格对这一教派有很深涉入；一部以第二次世界大战为背景的、基于他第一段婚姻的长篇小说；以及一部以他自己的战争经历为模型的中篇小说。
For decades, those in touch with Mr. Salinger have said that he had continued to write assiduously, though he stopped publishing after a long story, “Hapworth 16, 1924,” appeared in The New Yorker. But no one had made so detailed a public claim that Mr. Salinger had left extensive posthumous publishing plans.
几十年来，一些与塞林格有接触的人都表示，塞林格一直笔耕不辍，虽然他在在《纽约客》(The New Yorker)发表《哈普沃兹16，1924》(Hapworth 16, 1924)后就没再出书。但是之前没人曾如此详尽地公开表示，塞林格留下了大规模的遗作出版计划。
The documentary is directed by Shane Salerno, a filmmaker who spent nine years researching and filming the movie that is set for release by the Weinstein Company on Sept. 6, and will air later on PBS in the American Masters series. The companion book, co-written by David Shields, is to be published by Simon & Schuster on Sept. 3.
这部纪录片由谢恩·萨莱诺(Shane Salerno)导演。萨莱诺花了9年时间进行调查和影片的拍摄，该片将于9月6日由温斯坦影业(Weinstein Company)发行，并将在未来由PBS在其“美国大师”(American Masters)系列中播出。配套的书由萨莱诺和戴维·希尔兹(David Shields)共同撰写，将于9月3日由西蒙与舒斯特(Simon & Schuster)出版。
Speaking in his Los Angeles office on Saturday, Mr. Salerno pointed to tables and shelves filled with previously unpublished photographs, hundreds of letters and even a handwritten World War II diary that belonged to one of Mr. Salinger’s lifelong friends, a now-deceased fellow soldier named Paul Fitzgerald.
周六，萨莱诺在他位于洛杉矶的办公室接受了采访，他的桌子和架子摆着上从未出版过的照片、数以百计的信件，甚至一部由塞林格终身的朋友、已去世的战友保罗·菲茨杰拉德(Paul Fitzgerald)手写的二战日记。
“If that’s not the inner circle, I don’t know what is the inner circle,” Mr. Salerno said.
“如果那不算是密友，我不知道什么算是密友了，”萨莱诺说。
His understanding of the publishing plans, Mr. Salerno said, took shape “fairly late” in his research.
萨莱诺说，他对这些出版计划的认识是在他调查的“后期”形成的。
The book and film attribute the detailed account of the plans to two anonymous sources, both of whom are described in the book as being “independent and separate.” Mr. Salerno declined to elaborate, other than to describe them as people who had not spoken to each other, but knew of the plans.
这部书和电影在描述出版计划的时候均引述了两个匿名的消息源，书中称这两人是“各自独立、互不相关的”。萨莱诺拒绝详述，只是说这两人并不相识，但都了解出版计划。
“The credibility of the last chapter,” Mr. Salerno said of a final summary of publishing prospects, entitled “Secrets,” “is in the 571 pages that preceded it.” Mr. Salerno noted that he initially had some cooperation from members of the Salinger family, but they later withdrew support.
萨莱诺谈起新书中谈及出版计划的标题为“秘密”(Secrets)的总结部分，“最后一章的可信度可从之前的571页中体现出。”萨莱诺说，他起初与塞林格的家庭成员有一些合作，但他们后来不再支持他的计划。
The book and film have been marketed with the promise of revelations about Mr. Salinger, whose penchant for privacy became a hallmark. Last week, Weinstein and Simon & Schuster began a promotional campaign that includes a poster image of Mr. Salinger with a finger to his lips, beneath an admonition: “Uncover the Mystery but Don’t Spoil the Secrets!” The book, a 698-page companion to the film, is written in an oral history style with snippets of text from dozens of people who were interviewed for the project.
塞林格向来以维护隐私著称，而在推广时，发行方称这本书和这部电影将对塞林格的生活有所揭示。上周，温斯坦影业以及西蒙与舒斯特出版社开始了一项推广活动，其中展示了一幅塞林格的海报图片，图中塞林格把一只手指放在唇边，上方还写着一句警告：“揭示神秘但不要破坏秘密！”这本随电影出版的书有698页，是以一种口述历史的风格写成的，其中包括了对几十个人采访的文字节选，这些人因此项目接受采访。
Jonathan Karp, the publisher of Simon & Schuster, said in an interview on Saturday that the book was “a major journalistic feat.”
西蒙与舒斯特公司的出版人乔纳森·卡普(Jonathan Karp)在上周六接受采访时表示，这本书是一个“重大的新闻壮举”。
“He did rely on some anonymous sources, and I’ve talked to him about that,” said Mr. Karp. “I believe that his sourcing is strong on the basis of all of the on-the-record sourcing that is unimpeachable.”
“他确实依靠了一些匿名消息来源，我也与他谈过了这一点，”卡普说。“我相信他取得的信息是有力的，所有记录下来的信息都是无懈可击的。”
Mr. Karp said of the “big reveal” of the unpublished manuscripts, “if and when this happens, I would expect it to be one of the biggest publishing events of the year, if not the decade.”
卡普在谈到对未出版手稿的“重大披露”时说，“如果这会发生，当它发生时，我希望这会成为出版界今年内——甚至是十年内——最大的事件之一。”
Together, the film and book provide a highly detailed, if somewhat unconventional, tour through the life of an author who landed with the Allied invasion of Normandy in World War II, was among the first to enter the Kaufering IV death camp during his service with counterintelligence troops, suffered mental collapse, then returned to the United States — with a German wife, Sylvia Welter — where he found literary fame.
虽说有些违背常规，但电影和书一起讲述了一段非常详细的人生旅程，探索了一位作家的生活，他曾经参与了二战期间盟军的诺曼底登陆，在反间谍部队服役期间，他还是最早进入考费林格IV(Kaufering IV)死亡集中营的人之一，他遭受了精神崩溃，然后与德国人妻子西尔维娅·韦尔特(Sylvia Welter)回到了美国，并在那里获得了文学声誉。
Among their more tantalizing revelations, Mr. Salerno and Mr. Shields provide little-known details and photographs of Mr. Salinger’s first wife, Ms. Welter, a German citizen who married him after World War II. At the time, in 1945, Mr. Salinger was working as a counterintelligence agent investigating Nazis who were in hiding.
书中有一些内幕曝光格外吸引人，其中包括萨莱诺和希尔兹提供了塞林格第一任妻子韦尔特的一些鲜为人知的细节和照片，她是一名在二战后嫁给他的德国公民。当时是1945年，塞林格担任反间谍部门特工，调查藏匿的纳粹分子。 
But the book notes suspicious elements of Ms. Welter’s life that suggest she may have been an informant for the Gestapo, a possibility that surfaced among Mr. Salinger’s friends in the post-War era. The marriage would not last. Weeks after the newlyweds returned to the Salinger home in New York, “she found an airline ticket to Germany on her breakfast plate.”
但这本书记录了一些韦尔特生活的可疑线索，表明她可能是一名盖世太保的线人，这种可能性是在战后由塞林格的朋友们提出。这场婚姻不可能持续下去。在这对新婚夫妇回到塞林格在纽约的家几周后，“她在早餐盘子上发现了一张返回德国的机票。”
For Mr. Salerno, the near-simultaneous release of both film and book culminate a quest that took him far from his occupation as a Hollywood screenwriter of films like “Savages” and the upcoming set of sequels to “Avatar.”
对于萨莱诺来说，几乎同时发布电影和书把他带到了事业的高峰，远远超过了他作为电影《野蛮人》(Savages)和即将上映的《阿凡达》(Avatar)系列续集的好莱坞编剧的身份。
Mr. Salerno said he did not expect Little, Brown and Company, which published “Catcher,” would necessarily be the publisher of future works. (The publisher declined to comment.) He said he believed Mr. Salinger’s estate has the right to place them with another publishing house.
萨莱诺说，他估计未来作品的出版商不见得就一定是出版了《守望者》的利特尔与布朗(Little, Brown and Company)。（该出版社拒绝置评。）他说，他认为塞林格的遗产执行人是有权将其作品交予别家出版社的。
“He’s going to have a second act unlike any writer in history,” said Mr. Salerno. “There’s no precedent for this.”
“他的第二幕将不同于史上任何一个作家，”萨莱诺说，“这是前所未有的。”