Paul Walker, the star of the “Fast & Furious” movie series, died Saturday in a car crash that killed one other person outside of Los Angeles. He was 40.
洛杉矶——《速度与激情》(Fast & Furious)系列电影的主演保罗·沃克(Paul Walker)周六在洛杉矶郊外因车祸去世，年仅40岁。车祸还造成另外一人死亡。
His publicist Ame Van Iden confirmed his death. A statement on Mr. Walker’s Facebook page said he was a passenger in a friend’s car, and that Mr. Walker was in the area to attend a charity event for his organization Reach Out Worldwide.
他的公关员埃姆·范·艾登(Ame Van Iden)确认了死讯。沃克的Facebook主页上的一条声明说他当时是搭一个朋友的车，沃克去那个地方是为了参加他创立的慈善组织Reach Out Worldwide的慈善活动。
The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department said that speed was a factor in the crash.
洛杉矶警署说，速度太快是车祸原因之一。
Deputies found a Porsche Carrera GT engulfed in flames when they responded to a report of a collision in the community of Valencia, north of Los Angeles. Two people who were found in the car were pronounced dead at the scene.
警察接到报警说，洛杉矶北部巴伦西亚社区发生了一起车祸。他们赶到现场时，发现一辆保时捷卡雷拉GT跑车被火焰吞没。车中的两个人被宣布当场死亡。
The Santa Clarita Valley Signal reported that the Porsche crashed into a light pole and tree and burst into flames. The fundraiser, to benefit victims of Typhoon Haiyan, took place at a nearby racecar shop. Attendees rushed to put out the flames with fire extinguishers to no avail.
据《圣塔克拉利塔信号报》(The Santa Clarita Valley Signal)报道，保时捷在撞上一根电线杆和一棵树后起火。那场为海燕台风受害者募捐的活动就在附近的一家赛车店举行。与会者赶紧用灭火器灭火，但是毫无用处。
Mr. Walker’s “Fast & Furious” co-star Vin Diesel posted a photograph of him and Mr. Walker arm-in-arm on Instagram with the message: “Brother I will miss you very much. I am absolutely speechless.”
沃克在《速度与激情》中的联合主演范·迪塞尔(Vin Diesel)在Instagram上发布了一张他和沃克的搭肩照片，留言说：“兄弟，我会很想你的。我现在的心情难以言喻。”
Mr. Walker rode the “Fast & Furious” franchise to stardom, starring in all but one of the six action blockbusters, beginning with the first film in 2001. The blond-haired, blue-eyed Los Angeles-native brought California surfer good-looks and an easy, warm charm to the series.
沃克凭借《速度与激情》系列蹿红，主演了这一系列六部动作大片的其中五部，第一部上映于2001年。这位金发碧眼的洛杉矶人为片中角色赋予了加州冲浪者的俊朗外表，以及随和温暖的魅力。
The son of a fashion model and a sewer contractor, Mr. Walker grew up in a working class, Mormon household in Glendale, Calif. Mr. Walker’s mother began taking him to auditions as a toddler. He was a child model beginning at the age of 2.
沃克的父母是时装模特和下水道承包商，他在加州格兰岱尔市的摩门教工薪家庭长大。沃克刚会走路，他妈妈就开始带他去试镜。他从两岁起就开始担任儿童模特。
After a string of TV roles as a child in the ’80s, including small roles on “Who’s the Boss” and “Charles in Charge,” Mr. Walker made his feature film debut in the 1998 comedy “Meet the Deedles.” Supporting roles in the films “Pleasantville,” '‘Varsity Blues” and “Flags of Our Fathers” followed.
20世纪80年代，小沃克出演了很多电视剧，包括在《谁是老板》(Who’s the Boss)和《查尔斯负责》(Charles in Charge)中扮演小角色。他出演的第一部电影是1998年的喜剧片《宝里宝气大追击》(Meet the Deedles)；而后，又在电影《欢乐谷》(Pleasantville)、《校园蓝调》(Varsity Blues)以及《父辈的旗帜》(Flags of Our Fathers)中扮演配角。
His performance in the 2000 thriller “The Skulls” caught the eye of producer Neal H. Moritz, who cast him in “The Fast and the Furious” as undercover police officer Brian O’Conner. Adapted from a Vibe magazine article about underground street races, the film became an unexpected hit.
他在2000年的惊悚电影《骷髅会》(The Skulls)中的表演引起了制片人尼尔·H·莫里茨(Neal H. Moritz)的注意，选他在《速度与激情》中扮演卧底警察布莱恩·奥康纳(Brian O’Conner)。该片改编自《Vibe》杂志一篇关于地下街头赛车的文章，取得了意外的成功。
In the sequel, “2 Fast 2 Furious,” Mr. Walker moved to center stage with Mr. Diesel temporarily dropping out. Mr. Walker, a self-described “gearhead,” kept his character’s sports car from the film.
在《速度与激情2》中，随着迪塞尔暂时退出，沃克成了中心人物。沃克说自己是个“汽车迷”，他保留了片中人物的跑车。
Mr. Walker starred in other films, including the crime thriller “Running Scared,” the Antarctic adventure “Eight Below” and the heist film “Takers.”
沃克还主演过其他一些影片，包括犯罪惊悚片《持续惊恐》(Running Scared)、南极探险片《零下八度》(Eight Below)以及抢劫片《劫匪》(Takers)。
“Fast & Furious” proved unusually enduring. Released in May, “Fast & Furious 6” was the most lucrative of them all, grossing more than $788 million worldwide. The seventh installment began shooting in September, with a release planned for July. The film’s production was on break with more shooting to be done.
《速度与激情》的生命力异常旺盛。5月份上映的《速度与激情6》是该系列中最赚钱的一部，在全球一共赚了超过7.88亿美元。第7集从9月份开始拍摄，计划在明年7月份上映。该片的制作暂时停止，还没有拍完。
Mr. Walker stars in the upcoming Hurricane Katrina drama “Hours,” which Lionsgate‘s Pantelion Films is to release Dec. 13. He formed Reach Out Worldwide in 2010 to aid people struck by natural disasters.
沃克主演的《生死倒数》(Hours)即将于12月13日上映，该片由狮门影业出品。他在2010年成立Reach Out Worldwide，旨在帮助遭受自然灾害的人。
Mr. Walker is survived by his 15-year-old daughter.
沃克在世的亲人只有一个15岁的女儿。