Talking about directing in blockbusters is sometimes nothing more than wishful thinking. Most are such impersonally operated machines — dedicated to the business of brand storytelling — that they tend to obliterate any whisper of individuality. That there’s a palpable directorial sensibility in “Guardians of the Galaxy,” along with other signs of genuine life, helps separate this latest Marvel cash grab from a lot of off-the-rack movie cartoons. Here, a pulse, wit, beauty and a real sensibility have been slipped into the fray, alongside the clockwork guffaws, kabooms and splats.
谈论轰动大片的导演工作，有时是不可能的事情。这些影片大都致力于讲述品牌故事，导演就像是不带个人感情的控制机，倾向于抹去任何带有个人特征的私语。《银河护卫队》(Guardians of the Galaxy)中却有着明显的导演特色及真实生活的痕迹，令这部最新的漫威吸金大片得以从目前的众多电影卡通中脱颖而出。片子的冲突中悄悄渗入了活力、智慧、美和真实感，此外还有定时出现的大笑、爆炸的巨响和砰然落地的声音。
Lifted by a cast of professional charmers and a “What, me worry?” vibe, “Guardians of the Galaxy” is one of those interstellar westerns about a motley group of appealing baddies who rise to the heroic occasion and ride to the rescue, on spaceships rather than Appaloosas. The John Wayne role here — or, really, the 1970s Harrison Ford one — belongs to Chris Pratt, an easygoing, comic performer who’s very good at putting up a persuasive cute-dumb front and then shifting into a slyer, more knowing register. Wearing a swinging duster and some fetishistic head gear, Mr. Pratt slides into “Guardians of the Galaxy” doing a Gene Kelly soft shoe, but is soon flexing his action-hero bona fides (bang-bang, etc.) as Peter Quill, a heavily armed professional scavenger.
《银河护卫队》是一部星际西部片，讲述一群迷人的坏家伙凑在一起，有了当英雄的机会，到宇宙飞船而不是阿帕鲁萨小镇去救人。一群职业万人迷演员，还有“什么，我担心？”的气质提升了影片的质量。在这部影片里，克里斯·普拉特(Chris Pratt)充当约翰·韦恩(John Wayne)的角色——哦，其实是20世纪70年代哈里森·福特(Harrison Ford)的角色——他是一个随和的喜剧式演员，擅长摆出一副有说服力的聪明沉默的伪装，接着就变成狡猾、更加世故的形象。普拉特身穿一件飘飘荡荡的罩衫，戴着具有拜物教气质的头部装置，迈着吉恩·凯利(Gene Kelly)的舞步溜进《银河护卫队》，但是很快就显示出了动作片主角的诚意（砰！砰！），他在片中的角色名叫彼得·奎尔(Peter Quill)，一个全副武装的职业拾荒者。
Quill is a good and a sometimes bad guy who fights and jokes amid swirling, polychromatic smoke and cascading words like Xandarians, Morag and the Celestial (and awesome) Head. He comes into possession of a pretty blue rock that everyone would risk death trying to get, hence a throwaway about “The Maltese Falcon.” You see, in 1539, some crusading knights persuaded the king of Spain to give them the island of Malta. ... That’s not what happens in “Guardians,” which is based on a comic that first hit in 1969, but no matter. What counts are the dreams of Quill and his compatriots, including a wisecracking raccoon and an ambulatory tree, which have been ushered into existence by the director, James Gunn, with an eye to those who don’t know or care about the source material.
奎尔是个亦正亦邪的家伙，他在五颜六色的烟雾中战斗、开玩笑，片中有很多“山达尔人”、“魔拉格星”和“神族（令人敬畏）头颅”之类字眼。他得到了一块漂亮的蓝色石头，所有人都冒死想要得到它，所以片中随口提起了《马耳他之鹰》(The Maltese Falcon)。你知道，在1539年，有些圣战骑士们劝说西班牙国王把马耳他岛献给他们……《银河护卫队》里的故事可不是这样，它是根据1969年走红的一部漫画改变的。不过没关系。重要的是奎尔的梦想以及他的同伴们，其中包括一只总说俏皮话的浣熊和一棵会走的树，鉴于有人不知道或者不关心漫画原作，特别交代一下，这棵树是导演詹姆斯·冈(James Gunn)加进片子里来的。
In other words, you don’t need to be held hostage by the Marvel Weltanschauung to enjoy “Guardians.” The story may be confusing and generic by turns, but if you shake off the bonds of narrative coherency it’s liberating letting the weird words — Yondu, Necrocraft, Sakkaran — just slide right past you, much like the zigzagging, exploding 3-D spaceships. What sticks are the fantastical landscapes, the beautiful creature designs and the actors delivering lively performances, even with strata of makeup and digital wizardry. Among the many amusements is the floating head (kind of like in “The Wizard of Oz”) that yells at a villain, Ronan (Lee Pace, with notes of “Star Wars” and “Prometheus”) who wants the blue rock so he can destroy Xandar, a post-racial Eden run by Nova Prime, a space-age Hillary Rodham Clinton (Glenn Close).
换言之，你就算不了解漫威漫画的世界观，也可以欣赏《银河护卫队》。故事情节可能有时混乱，有时平庸，但如果你不去管叙事的连贯性，那些古怪的字眼 “勇度”、“尸构生物”、“萨卡伦”也会一闪而过，就像那些曲折前进、突然爆炸的3-D太空船一样。精彩的是幻想出来的风景，美丽的生物设计和演员们生动的表演，层层化妆和数码特效也无法掩盖他们的光彩。很多地方都很有趣，特别是一个漂浮的头（有点像《OZ国历险记》[The Wizard of Oz]），对恶棍罗南（李·佩斯[Lee Pace]饰演，让人想起《星球大战》[Star Wars]和《普罗米修斯》[Prometheus]）尖叫的一幕，罗南想得到这块蓝色的石头，用来摧毁山达尔星——这是处在后种族歧视时代的伊甸园，领导人诺瓦至尊（格伦·克洛斯[Glenn Close]饰）堪称太空时代的希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)。
Filled with a multihued populace, Xandar is shiny, clean and bright, and looks familiar because it evokes both our world (one building suggests the Gherkin in London) and your favorite tattered science-fiction paperback. It’s nice if a little ho-hum (as utopias tend to be in movies), particularly when compared with the darkly colored, visually seductive realms and spaces conjured up by Mr. Gunn and his team. From location to location, and character to character, the quality of the special effects meets the demands of the imaginative designs in sweep and detail. There are different ways to get lost in a movie, and while “Guardians” takes you down one after another crazy narrative turn, it also pulls you into — and, for the most part, keeps you in — a fully realized other world.
明亮而洁净的山达尔星上有各种各样的居民，让人想起我们的世界（其中一座建筑有点像伦敦的“小黄瓜”大厦），也想起你最心爱的科幻小说中的场景，所以看上去很熟悉。虽说有点沉闷（电影里的乌托邦一般都是这样），但它很漂亮，特别是同冈和其团队创作出的那些深色调的迷人世界与空间进行对比。每个地点和角色的特效都能满足想象设计的要求，从整体到局部无不如此。要想沉迷在电影世界中，有很多种不同的方式，《银河护卫队》带你进入一个又一个疯狂的叙事转折，也推动着你进入一个完全可以感知的异世界，大多数时候能让你沉浸其中。
That’s a relief, because the movie doesn’t start promisingly, opening with not one but two female clichés: the dead mother and the disposable chick. Both belong to Quill — he tells the chick, who enters with bed hair and not much else, that he forgot she was even there — and they suggest that however futuristic the movie may be, its sexual politics and worldview are antediluvian. (You have to wonder if the people who make these entertainments ever think about what such tired stereotypes say to young viewers, not to mention their own sons and daughters.) The sense that the movie’s appealingly old-fashioned jocularity, reminiscent of late Howard Hawks, has its fatal drawbacks dissipates with the introduction of Gamora (Zoe Saldana), a green, mean, not-so-jolly killing machine.
这让人感到安慰，因为电影开头显得前景不妙。它以女性角色的俗套开场，而且不是一个女人，而是两个女人：死去的母亲和可以被随便抛弃的姑娘。两人都属于奎尔，他告诉那个头发凌乱、近乎赤裸地走进来的姑娘，他忘记了她还在这儿——这显示出这部影片虽然可能有着未来主义风格，但片中的性政治和世界观还是老一套（你忍不住要想，拍这些片子的人到底有没有想过，这种陈旧的老一套对年轻观众有什么影响，更别提他们自己的儿女了）。片中有趣的老式滑稽让人想起晚期的霍华德·霍克斯(Howard Hawks)，有着致命的缺点，不过随着卡魔拉（Gamora，佐伊·索尔达娜[Zoe Saldana]饰演）的登场就消散了，她是个阴郁自私的绿色杀人机器。
However familiar, Gamora turns out to be better than most Strong Female Characters — you know those girls: They’re fierce and finally inconsequential — that the blogger Tasha Robinson went after in a recent post about the so-called Trinity Syndrome. This pervasive sexist disorder affects a lot of filmmakers and is named for the “Matrix” character whose trajectory doesn’t deliver on her exciting promise. Gamora is given more to do than make a splashy entrance and wear tight costumes, and Ms. Saldana remains a charismatic screen presence, even when she trades in her Emma Peel-ish catsuits for a miniskirt, a costume change that’s accompanied by the image of a soft female hand resting on a strong male shoulder. This is another movie that mock-skewers the stereotypes it embraces.
卡魔拉这个角色虽然似曾相识，但还是超越了大多数强悍的女性角色——你知道这样的女孩，她们很凶悍，但到最后变得无关紧要，就是博客写手塔莎·罗宾森(Tasha Robinson)最新写的所谓“崔妮缇综合征”。这个词是指无处不在并影响了很多电影人的的男性至上论，是以《黑客帝国》(Matrix)中的女主角命名的，她故事的发展不像人们期待的那样令人兴奋。卡魔拉不仅身穿紧身衣，有一个引人瞩目的登场，她还有更多事要做；索尔达娜一直是一个极具魅力的镜头人物，甚至当她把自己的艾玛·皮尔(Emma Peel)式连体紧身衣换成一条短裙的时候也是如此——换装还伴随着这样一幕：一只柔软的女人的手搭在强壮的男人肩膀上。这是片中的又一处引人嘲笑的俗套。
It’s old news that the major studios, having long absorbed the lessons of B-movie titans like Roger Corman, are now primarily in the business of churning out big-ticket exploitation flicks. (As a studio executive said way back in 1975, “What was ‘Jaws’ but an old Corman monster-from-the-deep flick?”) It’s perfect, then, that Mr. Gunn, having started out working for Troma Entertainment, that gleeful purveyor of barrel-scraping trash, has been tapped by Marvel for its latest bid at box-office domination. He’s a funny guy who brings a light touch to cartoon violence, whether he’s going for giggles (as in “Slither”) or uglier yuks (“Super”). But in “Guardians of the Galaxy,” he also summons up some emotion and even quiet desperation amid the scares and the brutes like Drax (a terrific Dave Bautista).
大制片公司从罗杰·科曼(Roger Corman)这些B级片巨头那里吸取了经验，现在主要致力于快速推出高票房的剥削影片，这已经不是什么新闻了（早在1975年，一个制片公司执行人就说，“《大白鲨》[Jaws]不就是一部科曼式的深渊怪物电影吗？”）。詹姆斯·冈一开始在特洛玛娱乐公司工作，这家令人愉快的公司专门翻箱倒柜，翻拍老片，后来漫威邀请冈来拍摄这部最新的票房大片。冈是个有意思的人，不管他是想激起观众的傻笑（就像在他的《撕裂人》[Slither]里），或是更丑陋的哈哈大笑（就像在《超级英雄》[Super]）里，他令卡通暴力缓和了许多。但在《银河护卫队》里，他也唤起了一些情感，甚至包括恐惧中静静的绝望，以及德拉克斯（Drax，大卫·巴蒂斯塔[Dave Bautista]饰演，非常可怕）这样的兽性角色心中的绝望。