The events that lead to the chilling climax on a Berlin trestle in Steven Spielberg’s “Bridge of Spies” — the solemn exchange of captives between the United States and the Soviet Union — were ignited in real life at a nondescript Automat on 38th Street just west of Broadway in Manhattan.
史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)的《间谍之桥》(Bridge of Spies)中令人紧张的高潮是美国和苏联在柏林的一座高架桥上郑重交换俘虏。在现实生活中，引起这一高潮的诸多事件起源于曼哈顿百老汇西第38街上的一个普通自助餐厅。
What to other cafeteria patrons must have looked like an inconspicuous exchange of holiday gifts on Christmas Eve 1944 would produce another profound, if largely forgotten, consequence in the annals of Cold War espionage.
1944年的平安夜，这家自助餐厅里发生的一场礼物交换活动在其他顾客看来一定不足为奇，但会对冷战时期的间谍活动记录产生深远影响，即便这种影响已很大程度地被人遗忘。
Julius Rosenberg was waiting at a table when Aleksandr Feklisov arrived. Both men placed their packages on a windowsill. Feklisov’s contained an Omega stainless steel watch for Rosenberg, a crocodile handbag for his wife, Ethel, and a teddy bear for their only son at the time, Michael.
亚历山大·费克利索夫(Aleksandr Feklisov)走进来时，朱利叶斯·罗森伯格(Julius Rosenberg)正在桌边等他。两人把礼物盒放在窗台上。费克利索夫为罗森伯格准备了一块欧米茄(Omega)不锈钢手表，为罗森伯格的妻子埃塞尔(Ethel)准备了一个鳄鱼皮手袋，为他们两人当时唯一的儿子迈克尔(Michael)准备了一只泰迪熊。
The other box, the one that Rosenberg eagerly brought with him, weighed a hefty 15 pounds, and Feklisov prudently waited until he returned to the Russian Consulate before opening it.
罗森伯格的礼物重达15磅，将礼物带来时他怀着迫切的心情。费克利索夫则十分小心，回到苏联领事馆后才打开盒子。
Inside, according to his account, he and his colleagues in Soviet intelligence were stunned to discover a secret device that Rosenberg had smuggled out of a heavily guarded manufacturing plant where he worked as an inspector for the Army Signal Corps.
据费克利索夫描述，他和苏联情报局的同事们吃惊地发现里面放着一个秘密装置。那是罗森伯格从严密看守的制造工厂里偷运出来的。他在那家工厂里为美国陆军通讯部(Army Signal Corps)做检查员。
The device contained a tiny radio transmitter and receiver that enabled antiaircraft batteries to destroy planes by exploding shells near their targets rather than requiring a direct hit. The device, called a proximity fuse, was vital to the Allied victory in World War II.
这个装置包括一个微小的无线电发射机和接收器，能让对空排炮摧毁飞机。它采取的方式不是直接轰炸，而是引爆目标附近的炮弹。该装置被称为近炸引信，它在“二战”中对盟军的胜利非常重要。
In 1960, the Soviets used an advanced version of the device to shoot down the American U-2 spy plane piloted by Francis Gary Powers, prompting the prisoner exchange chronicled in “Bridge of Spies.”
1960年，苏联使用这个装置的改进版击落了弗朗西斯·加里·鲍尔斯(Francis Gary Powers)驾驶的美军U-2侦察机，从而引发了《间谍之桥》中讲述的俘虏交换情节。
“It was the first time a Soviet-made proximity fuse — a direct descendant of the device Julius Rosenberg had cleverly slipped out of Emerson Electronics and handed Feklisov as a Christmas present in 1944 — shot down an enemy aircraft,” Steven T. Usdin wrote in “Engineering Communism: How Two Americans Spied for Stalin and Founded the Soviet Silicon Valley.”
史蒂文·T·尤斯丁(Steven T. Usdin)在《建设共产主义：两个美国人如何为斯大林提供情报并创立了苏联的硅谷》(Engineering Communism: How Two Americans Spied for Stalin and Founded the Soviet Silicon Valley)中写道：“这是苏联制造的近炸引信首次击落敌军飞机。它的前身由朱利叶斯·罗森伯格巧妙地从艾默生电气公司(Emerson Electronics)偷运出来，在1944年作为圣诞礼物亲手交给费克利索夫。”
Harvey Klehr — a history professor at Emory University and co-author, with John Earl Haynes and Alexander Vassiliev, of “Spies: The Rise and Fall of the KGB in America” — explained: “In his autobiography Feklisov says that a modified version was used to shoot down Powers. I’d say that was fairly significant.”
哈维·克莱尔(Harvey Klehr)是埃默里大学(Emory University)的历史学教授。他与约翰·厄尔·海恩斯(John Earl Haynes)、亚历山大·瓦西里耶夫(Alexander Vassiliev)合著了《间谍：克格勃在美国的兴衰》(Spies: The Rise and Fall of the KGB in America)。克莱尔解释说：“费克利索夫在自传中说，[这一装置的]改进版被用来击落鲍尔斯。我得说这非常了不起。”
“Bridge of Spies” was acclaimed by reviewers, but did not go into detail about a pivotal moment: How were the Soviets able to shoot down a 13-mile-high secret reconnaissance plane just as it began its mission to photograph Russia’s version of Cape Canaveral, missile launching sites and a plutonium plant?
《间谍之桥》受到影评人称赞，但它没有详细讲述一个关键时刻：这架秘密侦查机刚升到13英里（约合21千米）高空开始执行拍摄苏联导弹发射基地和钚工厂的任务之后不久就被击落。苏联人是怎么做到的呢？
The U-2 incident and the capture of Powers was a propaganda coup for the Soviets, prompting them to cancel a summit meeting between the Soviet premier, Nikita S. Khrushchev, and President Dwight D. Eisenhower and two years later leading to the prisoner exchange of Col. Rudolf Abel, a Soviet spy, for Powers on the Glienicke Bridge in Berlin.
对苏联来说，击落U-2、抓获鲍尔斯是政治宣传的巨大成功，促使他们取消了苏联最高领导人尼基塔·S·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita S. Khrushchev)和美国总统德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)的会晤，并引发了两年后在柏林格利尼克桥上的俘虏交换，分别是苏联间谍鲁道夫·阿贝尔上校(Col. Rudolf Abel)和鲍尔斯。
The Rosenberg case’s focus on the theft of atomic bomb secrets overshadowed the industrial and other military technology that American spies were accused of delivering to the Soviets.
罗森伯格事件的重点在于窃取原子弹机密，所以它的影响力超过了美国间谍被指控向苏联泄露的工业机密和其他军事机密。
The Central Intelligence Agency, seeking to assess Soviet military strength before the scheduled summit conference, chose an inopportune day, May 1, for Powers’s nine-hour flight from Peshawar, Pakistan, to Bodo, Norway, which included a 2,900-mile incursion into Soviet airspace.
中央情报局(The Central Intelligence Agency)想在定好的峰会之前评估苏联的军事力量，但它选的是5月1日，这个日子不好。鲍尔斯从巴基斯坦白沙瓦到挪威博德的九小时飞行会侵犯苏联空域2900英里（约合4667公里）。
May Day was a national holiday in the Soviet Union. Military and commercial air traffic was light, and Soviet controllers would be more likely to notice an unauthorized plane. In fact, using upgraded versions of sophisticated radar stolen and perfected by Joel Barr, a Rosenberg recruit who defected to Russia, they began tracking Powers’s plane 15 miles before it even reached the Soviet border with Afghanistan.
5月1日是苏联的法定假期，所以那天的军事和商业飞行较少，苏联的监控人员更有可能发现这架未获授权的飞机。实际上，在鲍尔斯的飞机离苏联和阿富汗边界还有15英里（约合24公里）时，苏联人已经通过精密的升级版雷达发现了他。这种雷达是罗森伯格招募的投靠苏联的乔尔·巴尔(Joel Barr)盗窃和改进的。
“The radar-guided antiaircraft weapon that tracked the U-2, aimed and calculated when and where to fire,” Mr. Usdin said, “was based on designs that other members of the Rosenberg ring supplied to the Soviet Union.”
尤斯丁说：“追踪、瞄准并计算何时何地击毁U-2的雷达引导对空武器是罗森伯格组织的其他成员向苏联提供的。”
Thirteen fighters were scrambled to intercept the U-2, but they couldn’t come close as it flew 70,500 feet above the Ural Mountains.
共有13架战斗机紧急起飞拦截U-2，但是U-2在乌拉尔山脉上空7.05万英尺飞行，它们无法靠近。
The first rocket fired from a missile battery produced a fiery display that prompted cheers on the ground, but a Soviet pilot reported that flaming debris apparently had come from the disintegrating rocket, not from the U-2. Another rocket accidentally struck one of the Soviet MIG-19 fighters, destroying it.
导弹炮发射的第一枚火箭炸出熊熊火焰，引起地面人员一片欢呼，但是一位苏联飞行员报告说，燃烧的残骸显然来自解体的火箭，而非U-2。另一枚火箭意外击中其中一架苏联MIG-19战斗机并摧毁了它。
The fateful rocket proved the value of proximity fuses against targets that flew higher and faster. The missile exploded just behind Powers’s plane.
那枚致命的火箭证明近炸引信对飞得更高更快的目标的确具有杀伤力。那枚导弹就在鲍尔斯的飞机背后爆炸。
“I suddenly felt and heard a dull explosion,” Powers wrote in his prison journal, now housed at the Smithsonian’s National Air and Space Museum.
鲍尔斯在狱中日记中写道：“我突然感到并听到低沉的爆炸声。”如今，这本日记存放在史密森学会全国航空航天博物馆(Smithsonian’s National Air and Space Museum)里。
“It was not a bang or a loud noise but sounded like ‘whump,’” he continued. “Everything seemed to stand still for a long time. It seemed as if time had stopped. It couldn’t have been more than a second, but it seemed to me at least five minutes.
他继续写道：“它不是猛地爆炸，发出巨响，而是听起来像隆隆声。一切似乎静止了很长时间。好像时间停止了。其实只持续了不到一秒，但是我感觉像持续了五分钟。”
“I remember saying to myself, maybe aloud, I don’t know, ‘Good Lord, I’ve had it now.’”
“我记得对自己说，也许我说得很大声，我记不清了：‘天哪，我完蛋了’。”
“A tremendous orange flash lit the cockpit and the sky,” he later recalled. The wings ripped off, the plane spun out of control and Powers bailed out.
他后来回忆说：“巨大的橙色火焰点燃了驾驶舱，照亮了天空。”机翼掉落，飞机失控，鲍尔斯跳伞。
He was captured, confessed and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. But he recalled in his memoir that even with the whole world watching during his televised show trial, he feared that the Soviets would mete out the death penalty. That was the fate in the United States of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg after they were convicted in 1951 of conspiracy to commit espionage.
鲍尔斯被捕并认罪后被判入狱十年。不过，他在回忆录中说，尽管全世界都在观看他的电视审判大会，他也担心苏联人会判他死刑。因为1951年，朱利叶斯和埃塞尔·罗森伯格被控密谋间谍活动，在美国被处死。
“Yet the whole world had been watching the Rosenberg case,” too, Powers wrote. “And we had executed them anyway. Except for the fact that their crime was treason, mine espionage, there was no reason to suppose the Russians would be any less severe with me.”
鲍尔斯写道：“不过，罗森伯格案也是全世界关注的。我们还是处决了他们。他们的罪名是叛国，我的罪名是从事间谍活动，除此之外，我没有理由认为苏联会对我从轻处罚。”