Katniss Everdeen as fashion’s It Girl? That’s how the costume designer Trish Summerville imagined the teenage warrior portrayed by Jennifer Lawrence in “The Hunger Games: Catching Fire”: As a previous victor, she must be camera-ready as Panem prepares for the 75th games.
让凯特尼斯·伊夫狄恩(Katniss Everdeen)穿得像个时尚的“潮流女郎”？服装设计师特里希·萨默维尔(Trish Summerville)就是这么构思的。凯特尼斯是詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)在《饥饿游戏2：星火燎原》(The Hunger Games: Catching Fire)中饰演的少女战士，作为上届游戏的胜利者，她得在帕纳姆国筹备第75届饥饿游戏期间随时面对电视镜头。
In Suzanne Collins’s novels, a deadly competition is staged annually by the wealthy Capitol to punish the Panem districts over which it rules. The trilogy and the franchise’s first film adaptation last year set the general tone. But a new team, Ms. Summerville and the director Francis Lawrence, put their own visual imprint on the next one, due Nov. 22. “Considering how the Capitol and Panem ingest and digest capitalism and consumerism, and all the parties and galas they go to, they change fashions more quickly than each season,” she said.
在苏珊·科林斯(Suzanne Collins)的这部系列小说里，富裕的首都每年要举办一场杀人竞赛，作为对所辖的帕纳姆地区的惩罚。小说三部曲，以及去年上映的改编自该系列的第一部影片已经奠定了基调。但影片第二部换了新班底，包括萨维尔女士和导演弗朗西斯·劳伦斯(Francis Lawrence)，他们为这部11月22日上映的新片打上了自己的视觉印记。“首都和帕纳姆充分消化吸收了资本主义与消费主义，他们有许多派对和节日，用不了一季，风尚就会改变，”她说。
Katniss’s outfits — gowns of feathers, accessories in rough-hewed fibers — indicate her ascent in the Capitol while evoking her home in the impoverished District 12. Her male comrades, Peeta and Finnick, received magnetic, matinee-idol looks. And dressing Effie Trinket required tapping Alexander McQueen and House of Worth for statement pieces, including shoes that forced Trinket literally to stay on her toes.
凯特尼斯的服装——皮革长袍与质感粗糙的配饰，暗示她在首都地位的上升，但同时又会让人想起她的家乡：贫困的12区。她的男性伙伴皮塔和芬尼克被塑造成富于魅力的少女偶像。而艾菲·特林科特(Effie Trinket)的服装则需要引入亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)与沃斯时装屋(House of Worth)的概念单品，比如特林科特那双让她只能踮脚站立的高跟鞋。
I DO, I DON’T For her grand entrance to the 75th Hunger Games kickoff, Katniss dons a fantasy wedding dress by the Jakartan designer Tex Saverio — the one she might have worn had her nuptials to Peeta not been quashed by the games.
一些取舍：为了在第75届饥饿游戏开幕式上闪亮登场，凯特尼斯穿了一件奇异的婚礼礼服。它由雅加达设计师泰克斯·萨维里奥(Tex Saverio)设计。假如她和皮塔的婚礼没被游戏破坏，她本该在婚礼上穿这件礼服。
“I wanted to have a subliminal feel of flames and feathers to keep her the Girl on Fire while also representing the Mockingjay,” Ms. Summerville said. Mr. Saverio’s froth of layered organza features a flame-inspired silver corset and fabric peacock feathers sprouting at the waist. As Katniss twirls, the gown erupts, and an iridescent Mockingjay dress rises from the ash. Using images of a mockingbird, blue jay, pheasant and peacock, Ms. Summerville worked with an illustrator and graphic designer to create patterns of feathers and wings, which she then had printed on chiffon and built into the Mockingjay dress.
“我希望营造一种微妙的感觉，既有火焰也有羽毛，一方面保持她'燃烧的女孩'形象，同时也象征着嘲笑鸟(Mockingjay)，”萨默维尔说。萨维里奥设计的这件透明纱衣层层叠叠，上面是火焰形状的银色紧身胸衣，腰间有孔雀羽毛质感的装饰。凯特尼斯一转身，长袍便裂开来，一件七彩的嘲笑鸟长裙从灰烬中升起。萨默维尔使用了嘲鸟、蓝鸟、雉鸟与孔雀的形象，她和一位插画与平面设计师合作，创作羽毛和翅膀的图样，绘在雪纺绸上，用来制作那条嘲笑鸟长裙。
DYED IN THE WOOL Katniss wears a one-shouldered, cowl-neck sweater vest, almost like a shield, over her father’s leather coat. The piece, made by Maria Dora, a Los Angeles knitwear designer, is meant to see Katniss through summer, spring and winter.
在羊毛上染色：凯特尼斯穿了一件单肩、带兜帽的毛线马甲，就像一个盾牌，套在父亲留下的皮质外套之外。这件衣服是由洛杉矶的针织品设计师玛丽亚·朵拉(Maria Dora)设计，凯特尼斯在夏天、春天和冬天都穿着它。
“I wanted to bundle her up a bit and give her something that had a feel of the Capitol,” Ms. Summerville said, “but still with keeping in those nubby, big natural fibers — something, say, her mom could have made for her.” Like a security blanket, the piece accompanies Katniss on her hunting expeditions and even to bed on the Victory Tour. “It’s trying to marry both sides of her duality,” Ms. Summerville said, “having her heart at home but also fitting into the Capitol world without selling out.”
“我想让她多穿一点，让她穿点首都风格的东西，”萨默维尔说，“但同时也要穿那些盘结错杂，有大自然质感的服装，就像她妈妈会给她做的那种衣服。”这件马甲就像一块安全毯一样，陪伴凯特尼斯进行狩猎冒险，甚至在庆祝胜利的巡回之旅中还穿着它睡觉。“这件衣服试图把她的两面性统一起来，”萨默维尔说，“让她的心回到家中，但又不去背叛首都，而是适应它。”
SPRINGTIME IN PANEM When the Capitol escort Effie Trinket (Elizabeth Banks) returns to District 12 for the 75th reaping, she is adorned with monarch butterflies — on her dress, an actual Alexander McQueen couture design; her hair; even her eyelashes.
帕纳姆的春天：首都派来的护送者艾菲·特林科特（伊丽莎白·班克斯[Elizabeth Banks]饰）为收获第75届饥饿游戏候选人回到12区，她的长裙上装点着帝王蝶，是真正的亚历山大·麦昆品牌设计；她的头发和睫毛也以帝王蝶装饰。
“In her mind, it’s springtime,” Ms. Summerville said. “Her chrysalis has turned into this butterfly, she gets to come out again, she gets to see the kids.” She wanted Effie to look uncomfortable. “I think it’s her penance to herself,” she said, explaining that Effie loves all the grandeur, but that “she’s also really conflicted about her role in calling the kids up for the reapings.” Effie’s waist is cinched a little too tightly, her heels are a little too high, and her clothes are nearly impossible to sit in.
“在她心目中，这就是春天，”萨默维尔说。“她的蛹化作蝴蝶，她再次出来了，再次来看这些孩子们。”她希望艾菲看上去很不舒服。“我觉得这是她的一种苦行，”她解释说，艾菲喜欢华丽的东西，但是，“她是来召集孩子们进行收获，她对自己扮演的这个角色真的感到很矛盾。”艾菲的腰部被束得很紧，她的鞋跟也太高，穿着她那套衣服简直没法坐下。
MAN UP “This time around we made Peeta’s character much more masculine,” Ms. Summerville said. She laughed as she recounted meeting Josh Hutcherson, the actor who plays him, and saw how athletic he was.
男性崛起：“这次我们要让皮塔这个角色更有男子气概，”萨默维尔说。回忆起和饰演这个角色的乔希·哈切森(Josh Hutcherson)见面时的情形，她笑了起来。她觉得他的体格很像运动员。
“I was like, ‘We have to dude you up.' ” Using jackets and more structured pieces that amped up his already muscular physique, she accentuated his rapid maturation between the first and second films, and hinted at the emotional and sexual allure that drew Katniss to him initially. Ms. Summerville used a lot of subdued greens in Peeta’s wardrobe “because Katniss’s favorite color is green,” she said, “so subliminally, he’s always trying to woo her.”
我说：“我们得把你打扮起来，”她用了外套和更有结构感的单品，凸显他本来就肌肉发达的体格，并强调他在第一部和第二部影片期间的快速成长，暗示他从一开始就吸引着凯特尼斯的情感与性魅力。萨默维尔在皮塔的服装中使用了大量淡绿色，“因为凯特尼斯最喜欢的颜色是绿色，”她说，“所以他在潜意识里一直都在讨好她。”