A 13-year-old Japanese schoolgirl ­walking home from badminton practice mysteriously disappears. So does a young couple strolling on a beach. A mother and her 19-year-old daughter also vanish on the way back from their routine grocery shopping trip. They are among at least 17 Japanese who were abducted by North Korea in the years between 1977 and 1983.
一位13岁的日本女学生练完羽毛球步行回家时神秘失踪。一对年轻情侣在海滩上散步时失踪。一个母亲和19岁的女儿像往常一样买完日用品回家时也失踪了。1977年至1983年，至少有17名日本人遭到朝鲜绑架。上述这些人就是其中的受害者。
In “The Invitation-Only Zone: The True Story of North Korea’s Abduction Project,” Robert S. Boynton, a journalism ­professor at New York University, gives us a riveting portrait of these bizarre kidnappings, but offers few clues as to what this project was all about. “Why, really, do you think you were abducted?” Boynton asks Kaoru Hasuike, one of five victims who were eventually repatriated to Japan after the North Korean leader Kim Jong-il, in a bid to improve relations with Japan, admitted to the kidnappings in 2002. “The whole thing is still a paradox to me,” he says. And so it seems to Boynton as well.
纽约大学(New York University)新闻学教授罗伯特·S·博因顿(Robert S. Boynton)在《非请勿入：朝鲜绑架计划的真实故事》(The Invitation-Only Zone: The True Story of North Korea’s Abduction Project)中扣人心弦地讲述了这些诡异的绑架案，但是几乎没有提供任何关于这一计划有何用意的线索。2002年，朝鲜领导人金正日为了改善与日本的关系，承认绑架行动，并最终遣返了五名受害者。莲池熏是其中之一。博因顿问他：“你觉得自己到底为什么遭到绑架？” 他回答：“直到现在，整件事在我看来依然非常荒谬。”博因顿似乎也是这种感觉。
Most conspicuously missing in his account is any sustained examination of South Korea’s role in the whole affair. Contrary to his assertions, in 1978, when Kaoru was abducted, North Korea was not “one of the most admired and prosperous Communist regimes in Asia.” North Korea may have been ahead of the South economically in the 1950s, but by the mid-1960s it was already well on its way to becoming a failed economic state. By contrast, South Korea under the leadership of Park Chung-hee was emerging as an economic powerhouse. The year 1966 was a watershed for South Korea. Economically, the G.N.P. growth rate increased from 2.2 percent in 1962 to 12.7 percent in 1966, leading to one of the longest sustained periods of high growth in history. That’s why Kim Il-sung, facing the precipitous decline in his nation’s fortunes and realizing that the South was outstripping the North economically, began a series of provocative actions in the late 1960s and early ’70s, including two assassination attempts on President Park in a last-ditch effort to foment a South Korean revolution and achieve reunification under his ­control.
博因顿的叙述明显遗漏了一点：长期以来，人们一直在思考，韩国在整个事件中扮演了什么角色。与他的论断相反，1978年莲池熏遭到绑架时，朝鲜并非“亚洲最令人羡慕的繁荣共产主义政权之一”。20世纪50年代，朝鲜也许在经济上领先于韩国，但是到20世纪60年代中期，它已经走上了经济失败的道路。而当时韩国在朴正熙的领导下成为经济强国。1966年对韩国来说是一个分水岭。从经济上讲，它的国民生产总值增长率从1962年的2.2%上升到1966年的12.7%，之后韩国迎来了历史上最持久、稳定的高速增长时期之一。金日成面对本国财富的急速减少，意识到韩国在经济上正超越朝鲜，所以在60年代末70年代初开始了一系列挑衅行动，包括两次刺杀朴正熙总统，为煽动韩国革命、实现自己统治下的朝鲜半岛重新统一做最后的努力。
Could the abduction project have been linked to these efforts to undermine the South Korean regime? That connection was certainly made by the South Koreans when Kim Hyon-hui, a North Korean agent, along with another agent pretending to be her father, blew up Korean Air Flight 858 in November 1987 while posing as a Japanese tourist. Kim later confessed that she had received Japanese lessons from a woman who had been abducted from Japan in June 1978. The reason for the mission was to disrupt South Korea’s global coming-out party by discouraging people from attending the 1988 Seoul Olympics. The South’s success also appears to have influenced the fate of the spy-training program. The stark contrast between the prosperous South and the failing North following the collapse of East European Communism led to a temporary thaw in relations as South Korea’s president, Roh Tae Woo, began to pursue rapprochement with the Communist world, including North Korea. It was around this time that North Korea’s abduction project was gradually phased out.
这个绑架计划可能与削弱韩国政权的企图相关吗？1987年11月，朝鲜特工金贤姬冒充日本游客与假扮其父的另一位特工炸毁了大韩航空的858航班，此事无疑令韩国人产生这种联想。金贤姬后来承认，她跟1978年6月从日本绑架来的一个女人学过日语。炸机行动的目的是破坏韩国在全球舞台上的亮相派对，让外国人不敢来参加1988年的汉城奥运会。韩国在经济上的成功似乎也影响了这个间谍培训项目的命运。随着东欧共产主义的崩溃，繁荣的韩国和失败的朝鲜之间的鲜明对比导致韩朝关系暂时缓和，韩国总统卢泰愚开始寻求与共产主义国家恢复邦交，包括朝鲜。大致在这个时期，朝鲜的绑架计划慢慢停止了。
Boynton’s overriding interest is in ­Japan and Japanese identity. His musings about Japan’s reaction to the abductions, “Japan’s 9/11,” and the sudden realization “that the world was more dangerous than it had thought” are cogent. His study of the ordeal that the abductees went through is moving. But he gives us little insight into the vexed politics that might have driven Kim Il-sung to pursue such a cruel and ­inhumane program.
博因顿的主要兴趣在于日本和日本人的身份。他对日本对绑架案（相当于日本的9·11事件）的反应以及突然意识到“世界比它想像得更危险”的思考令人信服。他对被绑架者遭受的折磨的研究令人感动。但他几乎没有深入探讨可能驱使金日成实施这样残忍而野蛮的计划的复杂政治背景。