Growing up in rural Maine, the brothers Darrell and Oliver Hartman learned to love the outdoorsy, adventurous life from their dad, who was the director of the state’s parks. Trips in early adulthood to places like Greece, Nicaragua and India ensured their passion for wanderlust, as did the jobs they pursued: Darrell, 32, is a lifestyle and travel writer; Oliver, 30, is a director for the production company North. Last year, the pair decided to combine talents to create a website that celebrates the kind of travel they like to do.
达雷尔(Darrell)和奥利弗·哈特曼(Oliver Hartman)在有乡野风情的缅因州长大，他们像父亲一样，爱上了户外冒险生活。他们的父亲是缅因州所有公园的主管。刚成年的时候，他们前往希腊、尼加拉瓜和印度等地旅行，这增加了他们对旅游的热爱，也确立了他们未来工作的方向：32岁的达雷尔现在是生活方式和旅游作家；30岁的奥利弗是制片公司“北方”(North)的主管。去年，他们决定集中两人的智慧创立一个网站，赞美他们喜欢的那种旅游。
The platform, Jungles in Paris, offers curated, artistic documentary shorts and photo slideshows to draw attention to the world’s most unique (and sometimes endangered) phenomena and lesser-known terrain. A quiet, enigmatic film of Uzbekistan’s Aral Sea, almost entirely drained by Soviet-era infrastructure projects, captures the unlikely beauty of a dry ocean landscape. A selection of photographs presents the geisha tradition in Japan, emphasizing the centuries-old performance element and untangling the profession from its pop culture associations.
网站名叫“巴黎丛林”(Jungles in Paris)，提供精心策划的优美的纪录短片和幻灯照片，吸引人们关注世界上最独特的（有时是最濒危的）现象和不太为人所知的地带。一部关于乌兹别克斯坦咸海的影片安静而神秘，捕捉到了这片干涸的湖泊不可思议的美丽。由于苏联时代的基础设施建设项目，咸海已经差不多完全干涸了。一组照片展示的是日本的艺妓传统，强调其中有几百年历史的表演元素，揭示这个职业与流行文化的联系。
The Hartmans shoot some of the material, and rely on their own social network of photographers, filmmakers and journalists around the world to provide additional stories. Their influences, they say, include the documentary filmmakers Werner Herzog and Robert Gardner, the writer Peter Matthiessen and the behavioral scientists Jared Diamond and Robert Sapolsky. “Part of us wants to celebrate the place,” Oliver says, “but then another part is celebrating the people who take the time to document it.” In 2014, the brothers are planning adventures in Jamaica, Wyoming and Peru.
哈特曼兄弟自己拍摄了部分素材，同时依靠他们通过社交网络认识的世界各地摄影师、电影制作人和记者们提供更多故事。他们说，影响了他们的人包括纪录片导演韦纳·赫尔佐克(Werner Herzog)和罗伯特·加德纳(Robert Gardner)、作家彼得·马西森(Peter Matthiessen)以及行为科学家贾里德·戴蒙(Jared Diamond)和罗伯特·萨波斯基(Robert Sapolsky)。“一方面我们想赞美那些地方，”奥利弗说，“另一方面我们在赞美那些花时间记录这些地方的人们。”2014年，这对兄弟计划去牙买加、怀俄明州和秘鲁探险。