NEW DELHI — The Planning Commission of India is like those old men who are no longer harmful but are reviled because they once were. In their glory years, their ideas and deeds, couched in exalted convictions, destroyed lives.
新德里——印度计划委员会(Planning Commission)就像是那些已经伤害不了谁的老人，因为曾经害人，至今还在被唾骂。在他们最风光的岁月，他们的想法和行为披着高尚信念的外衣，却带来了民不聊生的后果。
The commission, in its final days now, was officially a think tank embedded in the government with the honorable mandate to reimagine India’s economic future. But culturally it was a lesson six decades in the telling that there is much to fear in the idealism of the elite. Created in 1950, it was once the heartbeat of India’s planned economy, when a small cabal in Delhi allocated funds, decided what factories should produce and how much, and what sort of industries — in fact, what sort of anything — was good for the nation. Its powers have diminished over the years, and its relevance has been questioned.
理论上，这个已经时日无多的委员会是一个归属于政府的智库，肩负着重新构想印度经济未来的崇高任务。但在文化上，它是一个长达60年的教训，告诉我们精英阶层的理想主义有很多可怕的地方。该委员会成立于1950年，曾经是印度计划经济的心脏，一小撮人关起门来决定资金的划拨，工厂应该生产什么，生产多少，什么样的产业对国家是有益的——事实上任何事情都要这样决定。多年来它的权力渐渐减弱，其功用也受到了质疑。
On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day address: “Sometimes it costs more to repair an old house, but it gives us no satisfaction. We have a feeling that it would be better to construct a new house altogether. Therefore, within a short period, we will replace the Planning Commission with a new institution.”
纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)总理在周五的独立日讲话中说：“有时候，修缮一座旧房子的成本更高，而且我们不会有成就感。我们觉得，建造一座新房子会更好。因此，我们将在近期用一个新的机构取代计划委员会。”
Mr. Modi displayed a degree of respect for the commission, but economic analysts rejoiced, saying that an ancient beast created during India’s experiment with socialism had finally been slain. Amusing then that the seeds of the commission were sown by some of India’s leading capitalists.
莫迪对委员会表示了一定程度的敬意，但经济分析人士欢呼雀跃，他们说，这头印度社会主义实验时期诞生的年迈野兽，终于要被宰杀了。这就引出了一件趣事，当初为委员会的成立埋下伏笔的，正是印度的几位首屈一指的资本家。
In 1944, eight men, including the heroes of Indian industry of the time, J.R.D. Tata and G.D. Birla, wrote a 15-year vision for the Indian economy to be circulated among their influential acquaintances. It soon came to be known as “The Bombay Plan.” The authors wanted per capita income to double in 15 years, and every Indian to enjoy a minimum standard of living — for instance, to have access to 30 yards of cloth in a year and at least 100 square feet of space to call home.
1944年，包括当时印度产业界大人物J·R·D·塔塔(J.R.D. Tata)和G·D·贝拉(G.D. Birla)在内的八人起草了一份印度经济15年设想，在他们的社交圈内传阅。后来这个设想被称为“孟买计划”(The Bombay Plan)。计划的作者们希望在15年内实现人均收入翻番，每一个印度人都能享受最起码的生活水准——比如每年可以用上30码（约合27米）的布料，有一个至少100平方英尺（约合9.2平方米）的居住空间。
As incredible as it might appear now, they wanted government to exercise tight oversight over industry. “Practically every aspect of economic life will have to be so rigorously controlled by government that individual liberty and freedom of enterprise will suffer a temporary eclipse,” they declared.
现在看来可能觉得不可思议，他们当时要求政府对产业进行更严厉的监管。他们宣称，“经济生活的方方面面几乎都要受到政府的严格控制，个人权利和企业自由会被暂时搁置。”
It is widely believed among academics that this document was among the major forces that influenced newly independent India to create the Planning Commission, which would in time become the most hated institution among the business community.
学界普遍认为，刚刚独立的印度之所以要成立计划委员会，这份文档起到了莫大的作用，而这个委员会日后将成为商界最痛恨的机构。
The commission is commonly referred to as a “Soviet-style” behemoth. The comparison annoys the economist Amartya Sen.
委员会常被说成是一头“苏联式”的巨兽。经济学家阿玛蒂亚·森(Amartya Sen)对这种类比十分反感。
In “An Uncertain Glory,” he and the economist Jean Drèze write: “One thing that Communist countries — from the U.S.S.R. and pre-reform China to Vietnam or Cuba — were committed to achieving, despite all the political indoctrination and dogmatism, was to ensure free and universal school education without delay.”
在《不确定的荣耀》(An Uncertain Glory)一书中，他和经济学家让·德雷兹(Jean Drèze)写道：“抛开那些政治灌输和教条主义不谈，从苏联到改革前的中国，再到越南或古巴，有一件事是共产主义国家一心想做到的，那就是立刻实现免费的全民教育。”
India’s central planning, at least in its early years, showed a disregard for the primary education of the poor, which would in time assume the proportions of a criminal neglect.
至少在最初几年里，印度的中央规划是无视穷人的初等教育问题的，后来更是在这方面达到了玩忽职守的地步。
“In fact, the first Five-Year Plan, initiated in 1951 — even though sympathetic to the need for university education, which it strongly supported — argued against regular schooling at the elementary level, favoring instead a so-called ‘basic education’ system, built on the hugely romantic and rather eccentric idea that children should learn through self-financing handicraft,” the authors note.
书中写道，“事实上，1951年启动的第一个五年计划对大学教育表示赞同，给予了大力支持，却反对在小学层面进行普及教育，转而支持一种所谓的‘基础教育’制度，这个制度建立在一种强烈的浪漫情怀和怪诞理念之上，认为孩子应该通过自食其力的手艺来学习。”
That idea was inspired by Mohandas K. Gandhi, who believed that making children literate before they learned how to make a bag “hampers their intellectual growth.”
这个想法的灵感来自莫罕达斯·K·甘地(Mohandas K. Gandhi)，他认为一个孩子在学习文化知识前，应该先懂得如何制作一只袋子，否则会“制约他们的智力发育”。