A few things are clear after the congressional testimony of James Comey, the F.B.I. director, this week:
本周，美国联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)在国会作证后，我们弄清了几件事：
First, Donald Trump owes Barack Obama and the American people an apology for his vituperative lie that Obama committed a felony by wiretapping Trump Tower. It was specious, libelous and reckless, regardless of the weak revelations of “incidental collection” that the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee and Trump transition team member Devin Nunes outrageously made public, briefing the president without first briefing his fellow committee members. Nunes’s announcement was a bombshell with no bomb, just enough mud in the water to obscure the blood in the water for those too willfully blind to discern the difference. 
首先，唐纳德·特朗普需要向贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)和美国人民道歉，因为他诬陷奥巴马犯了窃听特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的重罪。这个诬陷似是而非、纯属诽谤、不计后果，虽然共和党众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)主席、特朗普过渡团队成员德文·努尼斯(Devin Nunes)愤怒地公布了关于“连带监听”的薄弱迹象，在未向情报委员会同事通报此事之前就先汇报给了总统。然而他公布的是一则没有实质内容的爆炸性消息，对那些故意忽视其中差别的人来说，它搅混了水，掩盖了水中的血迹。
Second, Donald Trump will never apologize. Trump’s strategy for dealing with being caught in a lie is often to tell a bigger lie. He seems constitutionally incapable of registering what others would: shame, embarrassment, contrition. Something is broken in the man — definitely morally and possibly psychologically.
第二，唐纳德·特朗普永远不会道歉。特朗普应对谎言被揭穿的策略往往是撒一个更大的谎。他似乎天生不会产生别人应有的情绪：羞耻，尴尬，悔悟。这个男人肯定有问题——道德上绝对有问题，心理上可能也有。
Third, and to me this is the biggest, Comey confirmed that the investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to the Russians who tampered with our election is not “fake news” manufactured by Democrats stewing over a bitter loss but a legitimate investigation that has been underway for months and has no end in sight.
第三——对我来说，这一点最重要——科米证实，对特朗普竞选团队与干预美国大选的俄罗斯人之间关系的调查不是民主党人因败选而制造出来的“假新闻”，而是已经进行了好几个月、依然看不到尽头的正当调查。
Individuals who were associated with the president of the United States’ winning campaign are under criminal investigation. That is an extraordinary sentence and one that no American can allow to be swallowed up by other news or dismissed by ideologues.
与这位美国总统在竞选中获胜有关的人正在接受刑事调查。此事非同寻常，任何美国人都不能容许它被其他新闻掩盖，或是被盲从者忽视。
Depending on the outcome of this investigation, we could be facing a constitutional crisis. Oddly, it is likely that the reason Trump is even in the Oval Office is Comey’s original, extraordinarily inappropriate and unprecedented action. The Trump machinery then used that action to scare Americans about Clinton, in one of the most astonishing acts of deflection and hypocrisy in American history.
调查的结果可能使我们面临宪法危机。怪异的是，特朗普之所以能入主椭圆形办公室，很可能是由于当初科米的一件非常不合适，也是前所未有的举动。特朗普一伙利用这一举动来恐吓美国人，散播关于克林顿的谣言，那是美国历史上最令人震惊的歪曲和虚伪行为之一。
The timeline of how the lie of Clinton’s constitutional crisis was born and grew is full of Machiavellian-level misdirections.
关于克林顿宪法危机，整个谎言的诞生和发展过程中都充满各种不择手段的误导。
On Friday, Oct. 28, a little over a week before Election Day, Comey sent his now infamous letter to Congress saying that “the F.B.I. has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent” to the Clinton email server investigation and that “the F.B.I. should take appropriate investigative steps designed to allow investigators to review these emails to determine whether they contain classified information, as well as to assess their importance to our investigation.”
10月28日星期五，也就是选举日一周多前，科米向国会发了那封如今臭名昭著的信，声称关于克林顿电子邮件服务器的调查，“联邦调查局已经得知似乎存在着相关邮件”，并称，“联邦调查局应采取适当的调查步骤，以便调查人员审查这些邮件，确定它们是否包含机密信息，并评估它们对我们调查的重要性。”
Soon after the media reported the letter, Trump said at a crowded rally in New Hampshire:
在媒体报道该信之后不久，特朗普在新罕布什尔州的一场人数众多的集会上说：
“Hillary Clinton’s corruption is on a scale we have never seen before. We must not let her take her criminal scheme into the Oval Office. I have great respect for the fact that the F.B.I. and the Department of Justice are now willing to have the courage to right the horrible mistake that they made.”
“希拉里·克林顿腐败的程度是我们前所未见的。我们不能让她把她的犯罪计划带入椭圆形办公室。联邦调查局和司法部现在愿意勇敢地纠正自己犯下的可怕错误，对此我非常尊重。”
That day, Fox News tweeted a quote from the Trump campaign manager Kellyanne “Alternative Facts” Conway, with an image of her appearing on “The O’Reilly Factor” and text that read: “@KellyannePolls on HRC: “If you’re under your 2nd FBI investigation in the same year then you do have a … corruption & an ethics problem.”
当天，福克斯新闻(Fox News)在Twitter上发布了特朗普的竞选经理凯莉安·“另一种事实”·康维(Kellyanne “Alternative Facts” Conway)的一段话，还附上了她在“奥莱利实情”(The O’Reilly Factor)上亮相的照片，推文内容如下：“@KellyannePolls在提到希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(HRC)时说：‘如果你在一年内第二次遭到联邦调查局调查，那么你确实有……腐败和道德问题。’”
About an hour later, Conway retweeted the Fox News tweet, adding, “Most honest people I know are not under FBI investigation, let alone two.”
大约一个小时后，康维转发了福克斯新闻的这条推文，并补充说：“我认识的大部分诚实的人没有遭到联邦调查局调查，更别说被调查两次了。”
That night, as reported by The Des Moines Register, Trump said at a Cedar Rapids, Iowa, rally:
据《得梅因纪事报》(The Des Moines Register)报道称，当天晚上，特朗普在艾奥瓦州锡达拉皮兹的一场集会上说：
“The investigation is the biggest political scandal since Watergate, and it’s everybody’s hope that justice at last can be delivered.” He went on, “The F.B.I. would never have reopened this case at this time unless it were a most egregious criminal offense.”
“该调查是自水门事件以来最大的政治丑闻，大家都希望正义能最终得到伸张。”他接着说：“如果不是极其恶劣的刑事犯罪，联邦调查局绝不会在这个时候重新调查此案。”
Two days later, on Oct. 30, Doug Schoen, a pollster for former President Bill Clinton, said on Fox News that having a president under criminal investigation would pose a constitutional crisis, and the next day he wrote about that it in The Hill, saying:
两天后，也就是10月30日，前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的民调专家道格·舒恩(Doug Schoen)在福克斯新闻上表示，选出一位正在接受刑事调查的总统将造成宪法危机。第二天，他在《国会山》(The Hill)上写道：
“I am now convinced that we will be facing the very real possibility of a constitutional crisis with many dimensions and deleterious consequences should Secretary Clinton win the election.”
“现在我确信，如果克林顿国务卿赢得选举，我们将极有可能在很多层面上遭遇宪法危机，造成各种有害后果。”
He continued:
他接着写道：
“In the best case scenario, there will be at the very least a criminal investigation of President-elect Clinton. And there will be a criminal investigation of Huma Abedin, which is apparently ongoing. Furthermore, there will be potential investigations into the actions of the Justice Department and most of all the F.B.I. and its director, James Comey.
“在最好的情况下，至少会出现针对候任总统克林顿的刑事调查。还会有对胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)的刑事调查，这显然正在进行。此外，还可能促成司法部，以及联邦调查局包括局长詹姆斯·科米在内的大部分人员对此展开行动。
“After the past eight years wherein America has become progressively more and more divided and a campaign season that has magnified these divisions, I fear for that we will not be able to withstand this kind of continued scandal.”
“过去八年来，美国越来越分裂，而本次竞选扩大了这种分裂，我担心，我们将无法承受这种持续的丑闻。”
The Monday that Schoen’s “constitutional crisis” column appeared in The Hill, Trump quoted it at a rally in Michigan. Trump added:
周一，舒恩的“宪法危机”专栏出现在《国会山》上，特朗普在密歇根州的一次集会上引用了它。特朗普还补充说：
“She would be under protracted criminal investigation and probably a criminal trial, I would say. So we’d have a criminal trial of a sitting president.”
“我觉得，她会面临漫长的刑事调查，很可能还会面临刑事审判。所以，我们将会对一位在任总统进行刑事审判。”
Then that night the Fox News host and Trump flunky Sean Hannity repeated the warning on his own show:
那天晚上，福克斯新闻的主持人、特朗普的奴才肖恩·汉尼提(Sean Hannity)在自己的节目中重复了这项警告：
“Think about the magnitude of all of this for a second. Hillary Clinton could be sworn into office while still being under investigation from the F.B.I., which would then put this country into a major constitutional crisis.”
“花一秒钟时间想想所有这一切的严重性。希拉里·克林顿可能在宣誓就职时依然接受联邦调查局的调查，那会让这个国家陷入严重的宪法危机。”
Hannity continued:
汉尼提接着说道：
“Now Clinton says Donald Trump, oh, he’s not fit to serve in the Oval Office. But she, and she alone, has created a situation that could do severe damage to this country and the office of the presidency and prevent this country from solving problems.”
“现在，克林顿说，唐纳德·特朗普，哦，他不适合在椭圆形办公室任职。而她呢，她一个人就造成一种可能给这个国家和总统办公室造成严重损害的局面，让这个国家无法解决各种问题。”
Three days later, on Nov. 3, the Trump campaign released a television ad called “Unfit” that said in part: “Hillary cannot lead a nation while crippled by a criminal investigation.”
三天后，也就是11月3日，特朗普竞选团队发布了一支名为“不称职”(Unfit)的电视广告，其中一段说：“希拉里受困于刑事调查，无法领导这个国家。”
On Sunday, Nov. 6, just two days before the election, Comey sent another letter to Congress saying that based on the bureau’s review, “we have not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July with respect to Secretary Clinton.” In other words, oops, false alarm, nothing there.
11月6日星期日，也就是选举前两天，科米再次致信国会称，根据该局的审查，“关于克林顿国务卿，我们没有改变7月份得出的结论”。换句话说就是，哎呀，虚惊一场，啥事没有。
But the damage was done. The Trump campaign had already honed its “constitutional crisis, unfit for office” message, and it had sunk in with many Americans. What those Americans didn’t know — what we learned from Comey’s testimony this week — was that although there was no reason to continue investigating Clinton about her emails, the Trump campaign had been under investigation since July about possible contacts and collusion with Russia in its efforts to influence our election.
但它已经造成了破坏。特朗普的竞选团队已经打造出“宪法危机，不适合任职”的说法，而且已经深入许多美国人的心中。那些美国人当时所不知道的事情正是我们本周从科米的证词中了解到的——不仅继续调查克林顿的电子邮件毫无道理，而且从去年7月起，特朗普竞选团队一直在接受调查，因为在俄罗斯试图影响美国大选的行动中，特朗普团队被怀疑可能与俄罗斯有所接触并与之共谋。
Now the very thing that Team Trump and its Fox News media arm warned about, Trump himself has delivered: A compromised presidency and a possible constitutional crisis.
而现在，特朗普所面临的情况正是特朗普团队和它的新闻媒体臂膀福克斯所警告过的：总统职位受到损害，还有一场可能的宪法危机。
As The New York Times reported after Comey’s testimony:
正如《纽约时报》在科米作证之后所报道的：
“Mr. Comey placed a criminal investigation at the doorstep of the White House and said officers would pursue it ‘no matter how long that takes.’ ”
“科米把一场刑事调查摆在了白宫的门口，并且表示特工‘无论花多长时间’也要查到底。”
The lie these people promoted about Clinton and shielded about Trump are two of the biggest lies ever told in this country in service of electoral advantage.
这些人诬陷克林顿、维护特朗普的谎言，是在这个国家里为选举获胜而编出的最大谎言。
No act of this presidency — good or bad, beneficial or detrimental — can ever be considered without first contextualizing that this presidency itself was conceived in deception and is being incubated under an extraordinary lie.
这一届总统本身就是在欺骗中孕育而成、并在巨大的谎言中孵化而出，如果不首先考虑这个背景，那么就无法评估总统的任何行为——不管是它们是好是坏，是有益还是有害。
The Trump presidency is a corruption that flows from corruption. It is damned by its own damned lies.
特朗普的总统职位是从腐败中诞生的腐败。它注定因为自己可耻的谎言而失败。