In late 2012, Donald E. Graham, the chairman and chief executive of The Washington Post Company, met with the paper’s publisher, Katharine Weymouth, to look at the paper’s future for the next three years. Their assessment troubled them.
在2012年底，华盛顿邮报公司(The Washington Post Company)董事长兼首席执行官唐纳德·E·格雷厄姆(Donald E. Graham)跟该报出版人凯瑟琳·韦茅斯(Katharine Weymouth)碰头，商讨该报未来三年的状况。他们评估的结论使他们忧心忡忡。
“We knew we could survive, but we always felt that our ownership should do more than help the paper survive,” Mr. Graham said in an interview Monday evening.
“我们知道我们熬得下去，但我们始终觉得，作为该报的所有者，我们应该做更多的事情，而不只是帮它熬下去。”本周一晚上，格雷厄姆在接受采访时表示。
With the agreement of the board, the company retained Allen & Company and had an initial round of discussions with six potential buyers. Then in July, at Allen’s annual Sun Valley conference, Mr. Graham met with one of them, Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com. Mr. Graham liked what he heard.
在董事会的首肯下，该公司聘请艾伦公司(Allen & Company)，并跟六个潜在买家进行了首轮磋商。到了7月，在艾伦公司举办的一年一度的太阳谷(Sun Valley)会议上，格雷厄姆跟其中的一位见了面，他就是亚马逊(Amazon.com)的创始人杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)。格雷厄姆对这次交谈感到满意。
So after 80 years of control and editorial leadership by the Graham family, The Post began to change ownership Monday, when Mr. Bezos agreed to buy it for $250 million.
就这样，在被格雷厄姆家族控制和领导编辑工作80年之后，本周一，《华盛顿邮报》的所有权开始变化，贝佐斯同意以2.5亿美元的价格收购它。
The sale, when it is completed, will end the special relationship the paper has had with the nation’s capital. Washington has been through all manner of tumult and change in the last eight decades, with years of racial strife, the resignation of a president, a terrorist attack on the Pentagon and the evaporation of a bipartisan political process.
这次收购完成后，该报跟美国首都之间的特殊关系也将告终。在过去80年中，华盛顿经历了各种纷扰和变化，包括多年紧张的种族关系、一位总统的辞职、五角大楼遭到恐怖袭击，以及跨党派政治进程的消失。
But through it all, The Washington Post has been a source of both constancy and coverage, a center of gravity and a force in the civic, social and cultural life of a city where many others came and went.
但是这一路走来，《华盛顿邮报》提供了始终如一的报道。在这个城市里，很多人来而复去，但《华盛顿邮报》一直是市民、社会和文化生活中的一个重心、一股力量。
“It is a very big Washington moment,” said David Gergen, who was involved in four presidential administrations.
曾在四位总统的政府中供职的戴维·格根(David Gergen)说，“这是华盛顿一个十分重要的时刻。”
“When Kay Graham had you to her house, it was a command performance,” Mr. Gergen added, referring to Mr. Graham’s mother, the paper’s leader for more than two decades. “It was one of the last places where people with very different agendas would set down their weapons and come to talk. That has been disappearing for a long time, but symbolically, this brings an end to that era.”
格根说，“如果凯·格雷厄姆(Kay Graham)让你去她家，掌握局面的就是她，”他指的是唐纳德·格雷厄姆的母亲，曾领导该报二十多年。“那是立场大相径庭的人愿意放下武器，开始会谈的最后场所之一。这种情况很长时间都没有发生过了，但从象征意义上说，这件事宣告了那个时代的终结。”
To many, the Washington that the newspaper once guided from family dinners and select Georgetown salons disappeared long before the sale. The rise of the Web site Politico — built by people trained and nurtured at The Washington Post — and other insurgents foretold a change in the order of things. The days when people snapped open the daily paper to find out the things they should care about were long past, replaced by a cacophony of information sources, many of them far more driven by ideology than The Washington Post.
对于很多人来说，《华盛顿邮报》曾经在家庭晚宴上和乔治城的高端沙龙里为之运筹帷幄的那个华盛顿，在报纸出售之前，就已经消失很久了。“政治人”(Politico)网站（这个网站就是《华盛顿邮报》训练和培养出来的人创办的）和其他搅局者的崛起，已经预示了局面的转变。人们曾经急迫地翻开这份日报，了解他们应该关心的事件，但那样的日子也早已过去了。取而代之的，是各种信息来源发出的嘈杂声响，而其中很多信息来源，远比《华盛顿邮报》更受意识形态驱使。
In that way, perhaps, the purchase of one of the prized assets of American journalism by a talented entrepreneur from another coast is less of a shock than it might have been.
这样来看，来自西海岸的一位才华出众的企业家，收购美国新闻界一个宝贵资产的事情，也就不那么令人震惊了。
In selling to Mr. Bezos, the Grahams left the Sulzbergers, the owners of The New York Times, as the last family standing in a club that once also included the Chandlers (Los Angeles Times), the Copleys (San Diego Tribune), the Cowles (Minneapolis Star Tribune), and the Bancrofts (Wall Street Journal). But even as those other families sold out to moneyed interests, it always seemed a safe assumption that the Grahams would continue to find a way to exercise a certain kind of stewardship over Washington.
格雷厄姆把《华盛顿邮报》出售给贝佐斯之后，拥有《纽约时报》的苏兹伯格家族(Sulzbergers)就成为了报业家族俱乐部中硕果仅存的成员。这个俱乐部中曾经包括《洛杉矶时报》(Los Angeles Times)的钱德勒家族(Chandlers)、《圣迭戈论坛报》(San Diego Tribune)的科普利家族(Copleys)、《明尼阿波利斯明星论坛报》(Minneapolis Star Tribune)的考尔斯家族(Cowles)，以及《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)的班克罗夫特家族(Bancrofts)。但是，即使其他那些家族为了金钱利益出售了报纸，格雷厄姆也很有可能会找到一种方法，继续对华盛顿的事务产生一定的影响。
The Grahams’ resolve to retain ownership was wilted by an industrial sea change that laid many newspapers low. And even as the rest of the industry decided that there was an urgent need to begin charging on the Web, The Post held out, only recently deciding to join the rest.
报业翻天覆地的变化，不仅消磨了格雷厄姆家族保住《华盛顿邮报》所有权的决心，也导致很多报纸破产。即使在其他报纸认为亟需进军网络时，《华盛顿邮报》却举步不前，直到最近才决定加入其他人的行列。
For a time, the newspaper was propped up by its education division, Kaplan Inc., but when that company encountered regulatory and business turbulence, the losses at the newspaper — revenue dropped 44 percent over the past six years — came into sharp focus.
有段时间，该报纸经营教育业务的卡普兰公司(Kaplan Inc.)为它提供了支撑，但这家公司后来遇到监管和商业方面的问题，当时《华盛顿邮报》的亏损成了广泛关注的焦点——在之前六年中，营收减少了44%。
Still, news of the sale  and who was buying it was an extraordinary development in the newspaper industry. Given that The Post still has potency as a political symbol, the fact that it could be acquired by a man who made his fortune taking apart book-publishing — another traditional business — served as more evidence that the power center in the media world has turned away from the East Coast.
尽管如此，对于报业，《华盛顿邮报》出售的消息和收购者的身份仍然非同寻常。鉴于《华盛顿邮报》仍然拥有作为政治象征的影响力，它被一个因打乱图书出版业——也是一种传统业务——而致富的人收购，这件事更加证明了，在媒体世界里，权力的中心已经离开了东海岸。
Technology and its leaders have proved time and again that they can set an agenda based on giving consumers what they want, not what some politician, or a newspaper, thinks they need.
科技产业及其领导者一次次证明，他们可以设置议程，并且这种议程设置是基于对消费者需求的满足，而不是给他们某些政治人物或一家报纸认为他们想要的。
Perhaps  the biggest surprise in the sale is that it happened under the watch of Donald Graham. All scions of industry do their time on the shop-room floor, but Mr. Graham had shown that he didn’t want to just inherit his enterprise, he wanted to earn it. He served in Vietnam and later joined the Washington police force to walk a beat before doing his stations in the Post newsroom and on the business side.
也许，此次最令人惊讶的是，收购是在唐纳德·格雷厄姆掌舵期间完成的。在这个行业里，所有的继承人通常都从基层做起，但格雷厄姆已表明，他不仅只是去继承企业，他还希望通过自己的努力，证明这个职位就应该属于他。格雷厄姆曾在越南服役，后来加入华盛顿警察局，担任巡警，然后又在《华盛顿邮报》新闻编辑室及其商业部门工作。
He was perhaps not the legend that his mother was, but to many he represented a certain kind of stubborn belief that good newspapering was its own end. In the popular imagination, journalism reached its highest and best calling during Watergate, when The Post and its determined owner, Ms. Graham, took on a sitting president.
或许格雷厄姆不像他的母亲，是一个传奇人物，但对很多人而言，他代表了一种顽固的信念，他相信办好报纸本身就足以是一个目标。在大众的认知中，“水门事件”(Watergate)时，新闻实现了其最崇高、最美好的价值，当时，《华盛顿邮报》及其坚定的所有者格雷厄姆对美国总统发起了挑战。
The idea that Mr. Graham would sell the paper, whatever merits the sale might entail, seemed as unlikely as Henry V giving up the crown.
无论出售报纸能带来什么好处，格雷厄姆会卖掉该报的想法，就像亨利五世(Henry V)放弃王位一样让人无法想象。
But on Monday, Mr. Graham seemed at peace with what he had done.
然而在周一，格雷厄姆似乎对他所做的事情很坦然。
As he rode down in the elevator to the newsroom for the announcement, some of the paper’s reporters rode with him. One asked: “Is this bad?” Mr. Graham shook his head, saying that, in the end, he thought it would be good news for the paper.
他乘电梯下楼来到新闻编辑室，宣布了这个消息。该报的一些记者与他一同下楼，其中一人问道：“这是坏消息吗？”格雷厄姆以摇头作答，他认为最终这对这家报纸是个好消息。
“It was clear to me that he wanted to buy the newspaper for the right reasons,” Mr. Graham said of Mr. Bezos, “that he understood what newspapers do and why this newspaper in particular is important and that he would be willing to stand up for it.”
“我清楚地知道，他想买这家报纸是出于正确的原因，”格雷厄姆评价贝佐斯时说。“他理解报纸的作用是什么，为什么这家报纸尤为重要，他也愿意挺身而出，去维护它。”