What happened — did Matthew McConaughey roll out of bed one morning and decide that, after smiling through one too many schlocky movies, playing the pretty boy opposite Sandra-Kate-Jennifer, he wanted to do something decent? Not great, mind you, just solid and satisfying, a movie that asked more of him than rock-hard abs and bleachy-white teeth, one with a touch of grit, a story to chew over and maybe even a beautiful woman who looks real, something like his latest, “The Lincoln Lawyer.”
怎么回事？曾在那么多烂片里扮演桑德拉、凯特、詹妮弗（译者注：这里是指麦康纳在以前演过的片子里合作过的Sandra Bullock，Kate Hudson和Jennifer Lopez）身边男花瓶的马修·麦康纳(Matthew McConaughey)，是不是某天早晨一觉醒来突然打算演点拿得出手的角色了？这角色倒不用有多伟大，只是得实实在在、让人满意，除了秀出坚实的腹肌和一口亮白的牙齿，还得亮出点别的本事才行；这角色得让他展现几分勇气，故事情节得耐人寻味，也许片子里还得有个看上去真实点儿的漂亮女人，就比如他的新作，《林肯律师》(The Lincoln Lawyer)。 
The woman is Marisa Tomei, one of the few higher-profile American actresses in her age group (she was born in 1964, five years before Mr. McConaughey) who’s actually allowed to act her age, who conveys intelligence and sexiness, and suggests a life that’s been lived and without a face frozen by filler and fear. In “The Lincoln Lawyer,” a thriller adroitly adapted from the Michael Connelly book of the same title — directed by Brad Furman and written by John Romano — Ms. Tomei plays a character and not just the love interest. She isn’t the star, of course, but without her and the other exceptionally well-cast supporting players, Mr. McConaughey would have a tougher time making you believe that he was to the sleaze born.
这个真实的女人就是玛丽莎·托梅(Marisa Tomei),同龄美国女演员里难得一见的佼佼者之一（她生于1964年，比麦康纳大5岁），她可以展现出与自己年龄相称的演技，展露智慧与性感，让观众感觉她饰演的人物脸上没有空虚和忧虑的神情，过着一种充实的生活。《林肯律师》这部惊悚片是根据迈克尔·康纳利(Michael Connelly)的同名小说精改而成，导演是布拉德·福尔曼(Brad Furman)，编剧是约翰·罗曼罗(John Romano)。托梅在其中饰演的角色不仅是男主人公的爱人而已。当然，她并不是片中的明星，但是没有了她和其他出彩的配角们，麦康纳在片中塑造的那个不择手段、罔顾道德的形象就没那么容易让人信服了。 
But, oh, look at him go — no, cut through the waters — slicing through the crowds at this and that Los Angeles-area courthouse, a shark in gray suit and loafers. As Mick Haller (Mickey in the books), Mr. McConaughey keeps his focus tight — Mr. Furman making sure his camera does the same — doling out empty smiles to the guys with the badges and going straight for the clients whose innocence matters less than their wads of cash. Mick (the hard, short syllable suits him) works out of the back seat of his chauffeured Lincoln Town Car, an itinerant office, good for the rootless. It’s a portable refuge, as much a hideaway as an expression of the man who owns it: sleek, hard, fast and shut off from the world sprawling outside it.
但是，哇，看看他的样子——不，不是划破水面的帅小伙（这里是指麦康纳2008年的著名烂片Fool’s Gold, 中译《淘金俏冤家》，麦康纳在里面饰演一个冲浪爱好者，女主角就是文章开头提到的Kate Hudson），而是身穿灰色西装和平底鞋游走于洛杉矶各大法院，在人群中穿梭的老油条。在塑造米克·哈勒（Mick Haller，在小说里叫“米奇”——译注）这个角色时，麦康纳的表现手法集中明确（导演福尔曼给的镜头也很明确）——对戴警徽的家伙们偶尔露出空洞的笑容；对客户们则直来直去，他们是否无辜无关紧要，只要有足够的钞票就行。米克（这个发音简洁有力的名字很适合他）雇司机给他开车，常常在自己的林肯加长车(Lincoln Town Car)里办公，这样一个流动办公室很适合他这种没有根的人。这辆车是他的流动避难所，不仅可以让他隐藏在里面，也象征了车主的人生态度：圆滑、投入、敏捷、随时把喧嚣的世界屏蔽在外。
Mr. Furman gives “The Lincoln Lawyer” the unpretty look it deserves, turning down the Southern California light so he can throw in some shadows. Save for a golf course where the moneyed hit balls oceanside and a high-ticket office with the usual mausoleum marble, the locations are often homey, sometimes downright homely, textured rather than slicked up. Mick has a killer view from his barely lived-in house in the hills, but he and the movie scarcely seem to notice. Mr. Furman, who made a no-profile feature debut in 2008 with “The Take,” even offers up another look at downtown Los Angeles, that overexposed movie set, peering behind its towers to where palm trees sway next to tangles of freeway.
导演福尔曼为《林肯律师》赋予了与它相称的阴郁基调，让南加州的阳光黯淡了些，以便加入更多阴暗氛围。除了一个有钱人打球的海滨高尔夫球场，还有一个用白色墓碑大理石建成的高级办公室，片中场景大都很家庭化，有时候完全就是简单粗糙，不怎么追求干净整洁。米克的家在比弗利山里，但他自己很少住，这让他显得有点像个杀手，但他本人和整部影片几乎都没有注意到这一点。福尔曼的处女作是2008年没获得多少反响的《暴劫追缉》(The Take)，这部影片向观众呈现了洛杉矶市中心的另一面，全片场景呈现感光过度的色调，镜头仿佛躲在城市的高塔之后向外张望，看着纵横交错的高速公路旁边的棕榈树在风中摇摆。
The story, and there’s a lot of it, nicely condensed from Mr. Connelly’s page-turner best seller, largely turns on a case that looks like a slam dunk or, as one of Mick’s bail bondsmen, Val (John Leguizamo), insists, a jackpot. A man (Ryan Phillippe) did or did not beat up a woman, and his Beverly Hills grizzly mama (Frances Fisher) has the right get-out-of-jail card: a fat bank account. The client, Louis Roulet, insists on his innocence, and Mick takes the bait and the money (the same thing). Complications ensue. Mick works the case and chases leads, helped by an investigator (William H. Macy) and dogged by cops with grudges (Bryan Cranston and Michael Paré). Everything looks pretty clear-cut until it doesn’t.
《林肯律师》的故事情节主要是由康纳利引人入胜的同名畅销书浓缩改编而来，它讲述一起案子，乍看上去是十拿九稳的买卖，或者就像米克的保释担保人瓦尔（Val，约翰·雷吉扎莫[John Leguizamo]饰）说的，是“中了头奖”。一个小伙子（瑞恩·菲利普[Ryan Phillippe]饰）被指控殴打一个女人。他的母亲（弗朗西斯·费希尔[Frances Fisher]饰），一位头发花白、住在比弗利山庄的女士掏出巨额支票，只求让儿子马上出狱。米克接受了这个诱惑，拿了报酬（当然，金钱就是这个案子最大的诱惑），但错综复杂的状况相继发生。米克开始准备这个案子，在一个私家调查员（威廉姆·H·梅西[William H. Macy]饰）的帮助下寻找线索，还被心怀不满的警察们（布莱恩·克兰斯顿[Bryan Cranston]和迈克尔·佩纳[Michael Paré]饰）跟踪。表面看来案情并不复杂，直到疑点浮出水面。 
Mr. Connelly, a crime reporter turned writer, spun Mick off his author’s popular series about a Los Angeles police detective by the name of Hieronymous Bosch, Harry for short. Though related to dodgy cinematic lawyers like the antiheroes from films like “The Verdict,” Mick doesn’t feel as if he were being readied for his big redemption. He has a likable ex-wife (Ms. Tomei, as a prosecutor), a young daughter who loves him and even friends. (They all seem to be on the payroll.) But Mr. Connelly doesn’t try to make us love the character, and neither does Mr. Furman. He exploits Mr. McConaughey’s facile charm, pulling us into Mick’s gravitational field, where he first counts the cash and then tries to do good. The cash is the easy part.
康纳利在成为作家之前是犯罪新闻记者，他最流行的系列小说主人公是一个洛杉矶警探，名叫希罗尼姆斯·博施(Hieronymous Bosch)，简称哈里，米克就是从这个系列中脱胎出来的。自从《大审判》(The Verdict)以来，电影中经常有以反英雄形象出现的狡猾律师，米克和他们有点像，但好像完全没有准备好去承担自己的救赎。他有个可爱的公诉人前妻（托梅饰），一个爱他的女儿，还有一群固定的朋友（他们好像都为他做事）。但康纳利并不打算让我们喜欢上这个角色，导演福尔曼也没这个打算。福尔曼充分利用了麦康纳能说会道的魅力，带我们进入米克的世界，这个世界里的原则就是先数酬金，再来做到最好。拿钱是工作里最轻松的部分。
There are modest pleasures in a familiar story told differently enough that you’re happy to keep guessing and watching, despite this one’s five-ending pileup of a finish. Mr. Connelly was inspired by Raymond Chandler, and it shows in Mick’s jaded rap, and it’s likely that Mr. Furman watched Steven Soderbergh’s “Out of Sight.” “The Lincoln Lawyer” doesn’t approach those heights. But these are first-rate influences, and there’s much to like in how those inspirations have been absorbed, including the wrung-out life that Mr. McConaughey summons up and the sight of Michael Peña, as one of Mick’s old clients, going from freaked-out innocent to stone-cold lifer in a few short scenes. This is an agreeably nasty tale about a corrupt lawyer working all the angles, including, it’s safe to assume, a possible movie franchise.
看着熟悉的题材换了个讲法确实能带给人一定程度的快感，观众可以开开心心地边看边猜，尽管片子最后5分钟有点混乱。康纳利的创作深受雷蒙德·钱德勒(Raymond Chandler)影响，这从米克那种略带倦意的长篇大论中可以看出来；福尔曼肯定也看过史蒂文·索德伯格(Steven Soderbergh)的《战略高手》(Out of Sight)。《林肯律师》并没有达到钱德勒和索德伯格的高度，但是这些影响了它的作品都是一流的；找出本片在什么地方受到了这些作品启发也很有乐趣。比如在其中几场小场景里，麦康纳让观众感觉主人公过着筋疲力尽的生活；还有迈克尔·佩纳(Michael Peña) 饰演的一个米克的老客户，从惊恐的无辜被诬者变成了心灰意冷的终生监禁囚徒。《林肯律师》是个令人愉快的龌龊故事，讲述一个堕落的律师是怎样黑白通吃，为各方面服务——当然，也可以为影片销售服务。