CAIRO — Some years ago, I was invited to a literary festival in London whose slogan was “change the world.” I had some festival brochures in my hand as I went through the usual entry process at Heathrow Airport. But before I reached the exit, I was surprised to be stopped by a police officer. He examined my passport and leafed through the brochures. Then he asked, “How do you wish to change the world?”
开罗——多年前，我受邀参加伦敦的一个文化节，其口号为“改变世界”。在希思罗机场(Heathrow Airport)办理惯常的入境手续时，我把文化节的一些宣传手册拿在手上。让我吃惊的是，抵达出口前，我被一个警员拦住了。他检查了我的护照，又翻了翻宣传册，随后问道：“你希望如何改变世界？”
His demeanor was apprehensive, so I took the question seriously and started explaining, in simple terms, that I was an author invited to the festival, that I had not personally chosen the slogan but it implied changing the way people think by means of writing. He seemed persuaded but, all the same, took my passport and I had to wait half an hour before it was returned.
他的神态充满疑虑，因此我也严肃以待，简单明了地做了说明：我是受邀参加文化节的作家，这个口号并非我个人的选择，不过它意味着通过写作改变人们的思维方式。他似乎信以为真，但还是拿走了我的护照。我等了半个小时，护照才被还回来。
I could provide scores of similar anecdotes. My literary works have been translated into 35 languages, and so I have traveled to various countries for numerous seminars and book signings. Despite the amicable way I am treated by people in the book world, in airports I am just another Arab, a potential terrorist.
这样的轶事我能讲出一大推。我的文学作品被翻译成了35种文字，因此，为了参加研讨会和新书签售会，我曾到访过许多国家。尽管在图书界人们待我都很友好，但在机场，我不过是又一个阿拉伯人，一个潜在的恐怖分子。
I have no complaint about security measures because they have obviously been instituted for my protection as a passenger. Most security personnel perform their duties in a polite and exemplary manner, but some use the procedures to slight you or to make you understand that you are unwelcome or inferior.
我对安检措施没什么可抱怨的，因为实行这些举措的目的显然是为了保护作为旅客的我。大部分安检人员执行公务时态度和善、勘称楷模，但也有人用安检程序来侮辱你，或者让你明白你不受欢迎、低人一等。
The purpose of customs officers at airports is to catch smugglers, but if you look Arabic, or if you are black, or if you are a woman in a head scarf, they make a beeline for you and ask you a series of provocative questions that I doubt have anything to do with smuggling.
机场海关关员的职责是抓捕走私分子，但假如你长得像阿拉伯人，或者你是黑人，又或者你是戴着头巾的女人，他们就会迅速拦住你，提出一系列带有挑衅意味的，在我看来可能跟走私没有一毛钱关系的问题。
“How many cartons of cigarettes have you got with you?” asked an officer, before she opened my suitcase. I replied that I had a single carton. “Are you sure about that?” she responded with a smirk, implying that I was lying.
“你带了多少条香烟？”一位警员在打开我的手提箱之前问道。我回答说只带了一条。“你确定吗？”她露出自鸣得意的笑容，暗示我在撒谎。
I cope with these irritations by considering them part of the hassles of my work, but sometimes it becomes too much. Once, at John F. Kennedy International Airport, I was held for two hours because I objected to the officer’s attitude; another time, at Nice, in France, an officer summoned me by curling his index finger, a gesture I find disrespectful. He examined my passport and instead of asking me the purpose of my trip, simply demanded, “What are you doing here?”
我会把这些让人恼火的事情当成工作上的麻烦来处理，但有时候情况实在太夸张。有一回，在约翰·F·肯尼迪国际机场( F. Kennedy International Airport)，因为对警员的态度提出异议，我被扣留了两个小时。还有一回，在法国尼斯，一个警员叫我过去时朝我勾了勾食指，我觉得那个手势很无礼。他检查了我的护照之后，没问我旅行的目的，而是直截了当地盘问道：你在这儿干什么？
“I’ve come to buy some cows,” I told him, in earnest. He looked confused: “Cows? But your passport gives your profession as ‘dentist!"’
“我是来买奶牛的，”我语气诚恳地告诉他。他看起来很困惑：“奶牛？但护照上说你的职业是‘牙医’！”
“There are some dentists,” I explained (for that is my professional occupation), “whose hobby is collecting cows, and I’m one of them.”
“有这样一些牙医，”我解释道（这的确是我的职业)，“他们的爱好是收集奶牛，我就是其中之一。”
We stood there exchanging sidelong glances until, finally, he returned the passport and let me proceed.
我们站在那里互相瞟着对方，最后，他归还了护照，放我过去了。
A French police officer of Tunisian origin named Sihem Souid, who worked at Orly Airport in Paris, objected to the racist treatment of Arab and African travelers. She and seven of her colleagues complained about the behavior of other police officers, but nothing was done. Ms. Sihem went on to publish a book, “Omerta dans la police,” that exposed the racist practices at Orly, including the story of an African woman whom an officer referred to as a “filthy black,” and who was strip-searched and photographed, while the officer looked on, laughing.
在巴黎奥利机场(Orly Airport)工作的法国警员斯赫姆·苏伊德拥有突尼斯血统，曾就阿拉伯和非洲旅行者受到的带有种族主义色彩的对待提出异议。她和7个同事对其他警员的行为进行了投诉，但情况没有得到任何改善。之后，斯赫姆出了一本书，名为《警方的潜规则》(Omerta dans la police)，揭露了奥利机场的种族主义做法。书中提到了一位非洲女子的遭遇。该女子被某警员称为“肮脏的黑鬼”，她遭受裸体搜查并被拍照时，那名警员就在一旁观看，并哈哈大笑。
Why do some officials mete out this kind of racist treatment at airports?
为什么在机场，有些官方人员会以这种带有种族主义色彩的方式待人接物？
Clay Routledge, an associate professor of psychology at North Dakota State University, argues that some people crave control, and discriminate against others in order to gratify that desire and boost their self-esteem; for others, racism might provide a stark worldview in which “good” whites and Christians were ranged against “evil” blacks and Muslims. According to the scholar Edward W. Said, in his 1981 book “Covering Islam,” Arabs and Muslims were generally portrayed in the Western media as either oil sheikhs or likely terrorists, while Islam itself was presented as a poorly defined and misunderstood abstraction.
北达科他州立大学(North Dakota State University)心理学副教授克莱·劳特利奇(Clay Routledge)认为：一些人具有控制欲，为了满足这种欲念、增强自信心，他们会歧视他人；至于另外一些人，种族主义或许给他们提供了一种鲜明的世界观，即，“善良的”白人和基督徒与“邪恶的”黑人和穆斯林是对立的。学者爱德华·W·萨义德(Edward W. Said)在1981年出版的《报道伊斯兰》(Covering Islam)一书中表示：一般而言，西方媒体所呈现的阿拉伯人和穆斯林不是产油国的酋长就是潜在的恐怖分子；其所呈现的伊斯兰教则是一个定义含混不清、遭到种种误读的抽象概念。
It is true, of course, that terrifying and barbarous crimes committed by terrorists in the name of Islam have cast a shadow over the image of all Muslims. But the most basic rule of justice is that criminal responsibility lies with the individual, and not “by association” with a group that happens to share the same religious or ethnic identity. Can all Americans be held responsible for the torture of Iraqi detainees in Abu Ghraib prison?
恐怖分子以伊斯兰教的名义犯下的野蛮可怕的罪行，让穆斯林的整体形象笼罩在了阴影之中，这是事实。但最为基本的公正原则是：罪责应由犯罪的个人来承担，而不能让碰巧跟他们信奉同样的宗教或者隶属于同一种族的群体“连坐”。难道全体美国人都得为阿布格莱布监狱(Abu Ghraib prison)里发生的虐待伊拉克囚徒的事件负责吗？
In fact, the number of Arab and Muslim victims of Islamic extremist terrorism far exceeds the number of Western victims. In the last two years alone, terrorists in Egypt have killed more than 400 Egyptian police officers and soldiers.
事实上，伊斯兰极端恐怖主义的阿拉伯和穆斯林受害者，在人数上远远多于西方受害者。光是最近两年间，埃及境内的恐怖分子就杀死了400名埃及警员和士兵。