When Dr. Paul Kalanithi sent his best friend an email in May 2013 revealing that he had terminal cancer, he wrote: “The good news is that I’ve already outlived two Brontës, Keats and Stephen Crane. The bad news is that I haven’t written anything.” It was a jokey way of dealing with the unthinkable but also an indication of Dr. Kalanithi’s tremendous ambition. He had led a fascinating life and was not about to leave it unchronicled.
2013年5月，保罗·卡拉尼蒂(Paul Kalanithi)医生给最好的朋友发电子邮件，透露自己已是癌症晚期，他写道：“好消息是，我已经比两位勃朗特姊妹(Brontës)、济慈(Keats)和斯蒂芬·克莱恩(Stephen Crane)活得都长了。坏消息是，我还没写出什么东西来呢。”面对无法想像的事实，这是一种戏谑的方式，但同样也表现出卡拉尼蒂医生极大的野心。他度过了精彩的一生，绝不会什么都不记录下来就离开这个世界。
The bittersweet news is that in the 22 months left to him, Dr. Kalanithi, who died at 37, went on to write a great, indelible book, “When Breath Becomes Air,” that is as intimate and illuminating as Atul Gawande’s “Being Mortal,” to cite only one recent example of a doctor’s book that has had exceptionally wide appeal. To paraphrase Abraham Verghese’s introduction, to read this book is to feel that Dr. Kalanithi still lives, with enormous power to influence the lives of others even though he is gone.
令人悲喜交集的是，在人生的最后22个月里，享年37岁的卡拉尼蒂医生写出了一本超乎寻常的精彩之作《当呼吸成为空气》(When Breath Becomes Air)，它和阿图尔·加万德(Atul Gawande)的《身为凡人》(Being Mortal)一样，私密又令人获益匪浅，加万德的这本书亦是近期由医生创作的又一本非常受欢迎的书。阿布拉汉姆·沃吉斯(Abraham Verghese)在前言中写道，尽管卡拉蒂尼医生已经逝去，阅读这本书，就会感到他仿佛还活着，拥有无限的力量，去影响他人的生活。
Dr. Verghese suggests not only reading “When Breath Becomes Air” but also listening to the overwhelming response it prompts in you. I guarantee that finishing this book and then forgetting about it is simply not an option. There is so much here that lingers, and not just about matters of life and death: One of the most poignant things about Dr. Kalanithi’s story is that he had postponed learning how to live while pursuing his career in neurosurgery. By the time he was ready to enjoy a life outside the operating room, what he needed to learn was how to die.
沃吉斯医生认为，读者在阅读《当呼吸成为空气》的同时，还需要聆听自己内心涌现的巨大回应。我敢担保，一旦读完这本书，你就绝不可能轻易忘怀它。书中有太多东西会在你心中萦绕不去，不仅仅是关于生死的问题，卡拉尼蒂医生的故事里最深刻的话题之一是，他在追求神经外科医生事业生涯的路上，其实迟迟未能学习如何去生活。当他准备享受手术室之外的人生之时，他却得学习如何面对死亡了。
Dr. Kalanithi’s abiding and eclectic interest in serious literature serves him well throughout “When Breath Becomes Air.” Its hauntingly beautiful title is a paraphrase from the poem “Caelica 83,” part of a 17th-century sonnet series by Fulke Greville. It’s obscure but could not be more apt. Thomas Browne’s “Religio Medici” was the book he loved most.
卡拉尼蒂医生对严肃文学有着持久而广泛的爱好，这一点极好地体现在了《当呼吸成为空气》中。这个在读者心中萦绕不去的美丽标题就来自17世纪诗人福尔克·格莱维尔(Fulke Greville)的十四行诗《卡伊利卡 83》(Caelica 83)。它涵义模糊，却非常适合他的主题。而他最喜欢的书则是托马斯·布朗尼(Thomas Browne)的《医生的信仰》(Religio Medici)。
He wrote his own book with great determination but also great difficulty, to the point of wearing silver-lined gloves to use the trackpad when his fingertips began to crack during chemotherapy. (In the epilogue and afterword, by his wife, Lucy Kalanithi, also a doctor, she says that the manuscript had to be completed posthumously.) But the difficulty doesn’t show: Dr. Kalanithi knows how to make a paragraph fly. And the book opens with a beauty, quoted here to show its swift economy and precision:
卡拉尼蒂医生写这本书的决心很大，但困难也同样巨大，他的指尖在化疗中裂开了，所以要戴着一对银边手套，才能使用触控板。他的妻子露西·卡拉尼蒂(Lucy Kalanithi)也是一名医生，她在尾声和后记中写道，手稿是在他去世后才编纂完成的。但是这个困难并没有表现出来：卡拉尼蒂医生知道怎样让一段话精彩纷呈。这本书一开头就有一种简洁精确之美，引用如下：
“I flipped through the CT scan images, the diagnosis obvious: the lungs were matted with innumerable tumors, the spine deformed, a full lobe of the liver obliterated. Cancer, widely disseminated. I was a neurological resident entering my final year of training. Over the last six years, I’d examined scores of such scans, on the off chance that some procedure might benefit the patient. But this scan was different: it was my own.”
“我翻看着CT扫描片子，诊断很清晰：肺部有无数肿瘤、脊柱变形、一片肝区遭彻底破坏。癌症，扩散面积很大。我是个神经外科实习医师，眼下是培训期最后一年。过去六年里，我看过无数这样的片子，手术基本上已经无法帮到这样的患者。但是这回的片子可不一样：它是我自己的。”
With those facts established, he is free to flash back through the lifetime of experiences that got him to this point: an unusual love-hate relationship with medicine as the thing that kept his father, a cardiologist, away from home at night but also struck him as a calling rather than a profession. Once his family moved from Westchester, N.Y., to Arizona, he and his brothers became essentially home-schooled by a strict mother who had no idea what truly excited Paul, the neurosurgeon in waiting. She worried about her sons and drugs, “never suspecting that the most intoxicating thing I’d experienced, by far, was the volume of romantic poetry she’d handed me the previous week.”
接受了这些事实之后，他开始天马行空地回忆起自己之前的人生，自己怎么就走到了如今这一步：他对医学有种又爱又恨的情绪，因为他的父亲是一个心脏病专家，夜里总是不在家，但是医学对他来说与其是一种职业，不如说是一种召唤。后来他家从纽约州韦斯特切斯特搬到亚利桑那州，他和兄弟们得在家里上学，母亲对他们非常严格，完全不知道保罗，未来的神经外科医生，真正感兴趣的东西是什么。她担心儿子们吸毒，“她根本不知道，到那时为止，我接触过的最有毒害的东西，其实是她上个星期给我的那本爱情诗集。”
With the seeker’s restlessness that seems not to have left him until his last breath, he went on to accrue two B.A.s and an M.A. in literature at Stanford, then a Master of Philosophy at Cambridge, before graduating cum laude from the Yale School of Medicine. He returned to Stanford for a residency in neurological surgery and a postdoctoral fellowship in neuroscience. His training was almost complete when the bad diagnosis hit.
卡拉尼蒂医生身上那种探索者的活跃不安直到人生的最后一刻还跟随着他，他获得了斯坦福大学的文学学士及硕士学位，之后又获得了剑桥大学的哲学硕士学位，其后又以优等成绩从耶鲁医学院毕业。他回到斯坦福大学，成为神经外科住院医生，并攻读神经外科博士后学位。发现恶疾时，他的培训期差不多快要结束了。
In the first half of the book, Dr. Kalanithi provides a good set of anecdotes about how he goes from medical resident to seasoned doctor: first cadaver (formaldehyde stimulated his appetite), first births and deaths on the same day (which made him mindful of “Waiting for Godot,” with its line about “birth astride of a grave”). From the start, workaholic though he is, he understands patients’ needs better than most young doctors do.
在本书的前半部分，卡拉尼蒂医生讲述了很多他是如何从住院医生成长为熟练医生的趣闻轶事：第一次面对尸体（福尔马林的味道倒尽了他的胃口），第一次在同一天里面对生与死（他忍不住想起《等待戈多》[Waiting for Godot]里的台词“诞生横跨坟墓”）。从一开始，他就是个工作狂，同时也比大多数年轻医生更能理解病人的需要。
And then everything changes. In a single moment of recognition, everything Dr. Kalanithi has imagined for himself and his wife evaporates, and a new future has to be imagined. Should they have a child, or would that make it harder for him to die? (They do. The book is dedicated to their daughter, Cady.) A job at Stanford for which he was the prime candidate? Not happening. Another good job that would require the Kalanithis to move to Wisconsin? Too far from his oncologist. Long-term plans of any kind? Well, what does long-term mean now? Does he have a day, a month, a year, six years, what? He’s heard the advice about living one day at a time, but what’s he supposed to do with that day when he doesn’t know how many others remain?
然后一切都变了。在那个确诊的时刻，卡拉尼蒂医生为自己和妻子设想过的一切，乃至他曾想象过的崭新未来全都烟消云散了。他们应该要孩子吗？这会不会让他更难接受自己的死亡呢？（最后他们要了孩子，这本书就是献给他们的女儿凯蒂的）。要接受斯坦福大学那份他作为主要候选人的工作吗？没有接受。还有一份很好的工作，但是需要卡拉尼蒂搬到威斯康辛。那里离他的肿瘤医师又太远了。还有什么长期计划？好吧，现在长期计划意味着什么？他还有多久可活，一天？一个月？一年？六年？他听过那种关于活在当下，过好每一天的建议，但是当他不知道自己还有多少天好活的时候，他要怎样度过眼前的这一天呢？
“When Breath Becomes Air” is gripping from the start. But it becomes even more so as Dr. Kalanithi tries to reinvent himself in various ways with no idea what will happen. He can’t gauge how much strength his body still has until he tests it, and sometimes the consequences are horrific. He no longer knows who he is or what he wants. His whole sense of identity is shaken. And for a terrible period when his oncologist is away, he is treated as a problem and not a patient by an inept medical resident who nearly hastens his death by denying him one of the drugs he desperately needs.
《当呼吸成为空气》从一开始就引人入胜。但是到了后来，卡拉尼蒂医生对未来一无所知，开始试着从很多方面改变自己，书写到这里就更加精彩。只有经过亲身测试，他才能估计出自己的身体还剩多少力量，这结果有时候很恐怖。他不再清楚自己是谁，自己想要什么。他的整个自我认同都在动摇。有一段时期非常恐怖，他的肿瘤医生不在，一个不称职的住院医生接待他，把他视为一个麻烦，而不是一个病人，没有给他开他急需的药，差点加速他的死亡。
Part of this book’s tremendous impact comes from the obvious fact that its author was such a brilliant polymath. And part comes from the way he conveys what happened to him — passionately working and striving, deferring gratification, waiting to live, learning to die — so well. None of it is maudlin. Nothing is exaggerated. As he wrote to a friend: “It’s just tragic enough and just imaginable enough.” And just important enough to be unmissable.
作者的博学多才为这本书增添了不少冲击力。此外他描述自己的经历是如此精彩，也为这本书增色不少——他满腔热忱地工作、奋斗、延迟满足感，等待享受生活，最终学习如何死亡。全书毫无多愁善感，亦没有夸大其词。正如他给朋友写的，他的故事“已经够悲惨了，也够能让人发挥想像了”。而他的故事也足够重要，不容错过。