JAKARTA, Indonesia — Jakarta, the sprawling Indonesian megacity of 10 million people, has a new governor with a difference.
印度尼西亚雅加达——印度尼西亚的雅加达有1000万人口，这个不断扩展的大城市有了一个与众不同的新领导人。
It’s not just Basuki Tjahaja Purnama’s hard-charging style that sets him apart from his predecessors. It’s also the fact that he is Christian and ethnic Chinese, and is improbably running the capital of the world’s most populous Muslim-majority nation.
钟万学(Basuki Tjahaja Purnama)与前任的区别不仅在于他的强硬风格，还在于他是一名基督徒，一名华裔。而他居然在掌管世界上人口最多的穆斯林国家的首都，这令人难以置信。
Mr. Basuki, a 48-year-old Protestant whose grandfather was a tin miner from Guangzhou, China, was sworn in Wednesday at the State Palace by President Joko Widodo.
48岁的新教教徒钟万学于周三在国家宫(State Palace)宣誓就职，总统佐科·维多多(Joko Widodo)主持了就职仪式。钟万学的祖父是来自中国广州的锡矿矿工。
None of Jakarta’s previous governors have been Christian or of Chinese ancestry, except for one who served briefly as an appointee half a century ago (like Mr. Basuki, he was both). And despite Indonesia’s history of discrimination — and, at times, savage violence — against ethnic Chinese, Mr. Basuki says he considers neither his faith nor his ethnicity to be a political handicap.
除了半个世纪前那位曾短暂地被委任为特区首长的官员(他与钟万学一样，既是基督徒又是华裔)，在很长一段时间里，雅加达的市长中没有基督徒，也没有华裔。尽管印度尼西亚有歧视——有时会野蛮暴力对待——华裔的历史，但钟万学表示，他觉得自己的信仰和种族没有成为政治障碍。
“When people told me ‘the Chinese are a minority,’ my father would say to tell them that we are more patriotic,” Mr. Basuki said in a recent interview. “If one day Indonesia is occupied by a foreign country, my father said he would be in front of the front line to fight for our independence again.”
“当人们告诉我‘华裔占少数’的时候，我父亲会说，告诉他们，我们更爱国，”钟万学最近接受采访时说。“我父亲说，如果印尼有一天被外国占领，他会冲到前线的最前端，再次为独立而战。”
Known for being brash and speaking bluntly, Mr. Basuki — popularly known as Ahok — is very different from the soft-spoken Javanese politicians the capital is used to. He began turning heads just weeks after he and Mr. Joko took office in 2012, when videos of Mr. Basuki berating civil servants for incompetence appeared on YouTube.
钟万学，人称“阿学”(Ahok)，以傲慢和直言著称，他与这个城市所习惯的言辞温和的爪哇政治人物有很大的不同。他在自己和佐科于2012年上任几周后，就开始获得关注，当时YouTube上出现了钟万学申斥公务人员无能的视频。
Since then, he has added to his confrontational reputation by closing the capital’s most notorious nightclub after an off-duty police officer died there of a drug overdose, and by evicting thousands of illegal street vendors who had been compounding Jakarta’s chronic traffic problems.
此后，他关闭了雅加达最臭名昭著的夜总会，原因是一名警察下班后在该夜总会服用过多毒品并死亡。他还驱赶了数千名非法营业的街头商贩，因为他们加剧了雅加达长期以来的交通问题。这些举措都提升了他为人强硬的名声。
“If you want to live in comfort, you have to get everything in order,” Mr. Basuki said. “And if you want to put everything in order, you have to have law enforcement.”
“如果你想生活在舒适的环境中，你就得收拾好一切，”钟万学说。“如果你想让一切井然有序，你就得执行法律。”
Mr. Basuki’s rise is a mark of the gains made by ethnic Chinese politicians since Indonesia’s transition to democracy in 1999 — particularly since direct elections were implemented at all levels of government, including local offices that were once filled by appointment.
钟万学的崛起标志着华裔政治人士自印尼于1999年向民主制度过渡以来所取得的成就，特别是在各级政府实现直接选举以来。过去，很多地方领导职位是由上级委任的。
“While there were no actual political restrictions, for all intent and purposes, Chinese were restricted from the public domain for decades,” said Kevin Evans, founder of Pemilu Asia, an Indonesian firm that collects political data. “With direct elections of district chiefs, mayors and lawmakers at the provincial level, ethnic Chinese are running and winning, and winning in districts where the Chinese population is a small minority.”
“虽然没有严格意义上的政治限制，但出于各种意图和目的，华裔数十年来一直难以进入公共领域，”收集政治数据的印尼Pemilu Asia公司的创始人凯文·埃文斯(Kevin Evans)说。“随着印尼开始直选区长、市长和省级议员，华裔参与选举并获胜，而且都是在华人占少数的区获胜。”
Though Chinese-Indonesians make up just over 1 percent of the vast Indonesian archipelago’s population, historically they have tended to wield economic clout beyond their numbers, which has often led to resentment. For decades, they were subjected to discriminatory laws and regulations.
虽然华裔在印尼群岛人口中所占的比例刚刚超过1%，从历史上来看，他们发挥的经济影响力往往超过了他们的人口比例，而这经常引发怨恨。数十年来，他们受到了歧视性法律法规的制约。
A former mining consultant, Mr. Basuki first ran for office in 2005, winning a local election on his native island of Belitung, off the southeast coast of Sumatra, in a district where 93 percent of the voters were Muslim. “I asked them why they wanted me to run, because I am of Chinese descent and a Christian,” he recalled of the local residents who approached him. “They said, ‘We don’t care — we know who you are. We know your character.’ ”
钟万学曾是一名矿业顾问，他于2005年首次参与竞选，并在他的家乡勿里洞岛的一个穆斯林选民占93%的地区赢得选举，勿里洞岛位于苏门答腊岛东南海岸附近。“因为我是华裔，而且是一名基督徒，我问他们为什么想让我参选，”他回忆起那些接触他的选民时说。“他们说，‘我们不在乎——我们知道你是谁。我们了解你的人品。’”
Bambang Harymurti, founder of Tempo magazine, a leading Indonesian newsweekly, said that some Indonesians, particularly in Jakarta’s more affluent circles, have a phobia about Chinese-Indonesians’ growing participation in high-level politics.
印尼的主要周刊Tempo杂志的创始人班邦·哈尔穆尔提(Bambang Harymurti)表示，一些印尼人，特别是雅加达的富人圈，对印尼华裔更多地参与高层政治的现象感到恐惧。
“The indigenous Indonesians may have the numbers, but Chinese dominate the economy,” Mr. Bambang said. “So these people are thinking, ‘Will they control the politics with Ahok as governor?’ ”
“土生土长的印尼人可能人数众多，但华人在经济领域占据主导地位，”班邦说。“因此，这些人在想，‘阿学担任特区首长后，他们会控制政治领域吗？”
Opponents made Mr. Basuki’s ethnicity and religion an issue during Jakarta’s 2012 gubernatorial race, when he was Mr. Joko’s running mate. And when Mr. Joko, a Muslim, ran for president, he was subjected to a rumor campaign that characterized him as an ethnic-Chinese Christian.
在2012年雅加达市长竞选中，钟万学是佐科的竞选伙伴，对手借钟万学的种族和宗教信仰做文章。虽然佐科是一名穆斯林，在他竞选总统时，却陷入了谣言之中，被人描绘成了一名华裔基督徒。
Still, the electorate has evolved, said Philips J. Vermonte, head of the department of politics and international relations at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta, noting that the ethnicity-based attacks against Mr. Basuki and Mr. Joko were unsuccessful.
雅加达战略与国际问题研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)政治与国际关系室主任菲利普斯·J·弗蒙特( Philips J. Vermonte)说，选民不断成长，他指出，针对钟万学和佐科的种族攻击并不成功。
Mr. Basuki’s “just get it done” attitude has been applauded by many Jakartans, but he has critics. Last month, members of the hard-line Islamic Defenders Front clashed with the police outside the Jakarta City Council and City Hall buildings as they protested Mr. Basuki’s pending swearing-in, saying that a non-Muslim should not be governor.
钟万学的“实干”态度受到很多雅加达人的称赞，但他也遭受了抨击。上个月，强硬派团体伊斯兰教捍卫者阵线(Islamic Defenders Front)的成员在雅加达市议会大楼及市政厅外举行抗议活动时与警方发生冲突，他们反对即将举行的就职仪式，称非穆斯林不能担任市长。