WASHINGTON — Alarmed by Donald J. Trump’s grip on the Republican presidential nomination, world leaders are wrestling with the possibility that, even if he loses the general election, his ascent reflects a strain of American public opinion that could profoundly reshape the way the United States addresses security alliances and trade.
华盛顿——唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)稳获共和党总统提名的前景，令世界各国领导人不安。他们在艰难地对抗一种可能性：即便特朗普在大选中失利，他的崛起也反映出一种美国民意，而这种民意可能会极大地重塑美国应对安全结盟和贸易问题的方式。
From Beijing, Tokyo and Seoul to the headquarters of NATO in Brussels and the vulnerable Baltic nations along Russia’s western border, officials and analysts said in interviews that they saw the success of Mr. Trump’s “America first” platform as a harbinger of pressure for allies to pay up or make trade concessions in return for military protection.
从北京、东京、首尔，到北约(NATO)位于布鲁塞尔的总部，再到俄罗斯西部边境沿线那些脆弱的波罗的海国家，官员和分析人士都在接受采访时表示，他们将特朗普“美国优先”竞选纲领的成功视作一种前兆，预示着盟国要面临为获得美国军事保护而付出代价或在贸易上作出妥协的压力。
In many capitals, Mr. Trump’s formal and off-the-cuff foreign policy proposals — his threat to pull out of NATO; his musings about removing the United States’ nuclear umbrella over Japan and South Korea; his pledge to slap huge trade tariffs on China — are regarded with a mix of alarm and confusion. Asked on Thursday if Beijing was concerned about the prospect of a Trump presidency, the Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, replied, “We hope the U.S. people from all walks of life would view bilateral relations from a reasonable and objective perspective.”
对于特朗普正式或即兴提出的各项外交政策建议——威胁退出北约；考虑让日韩失去美国的核保护；发誓对中国征收高贸易关税——许多国家怀有一种警惕与困惑交织的感受。周二，中国外交部长发言人洪磊被问到北京是否对特朗普当选美国总统的前景感到担忧，他回答，“我们希望美国各界人士理性、客观看待中美经贸合作关系。”
Stefano Stefanini, a former representative of Italy to NATO and former diplomatic adviser to the Italian president, put it this way: “There is no Donald Trump contingency plan.”
对于这一问题，意大利驻北约前代表、曾担任意大利总统外交顾问的斯特凡诺·斯特凡尼尼(Stefano Stefanini)则如此表述：“这里没有制定应对唐纳德·特朗普当选的紧急计划。”
“The mistake that Europe might make is to think the Trump phenomenon might just fade away,” Mr. Stefanini said. “The sentiments that Donald Trump is expressing will certainly influence the next administration or the next Congress.”
“欧洲有可能犯下的一个错误是认为特朗普现象会简单地自行消退，”斯特凡尼尼说。“但唐纳德·特朗普正在表达的情绪势必会对下一届白宫或国会产生影响。”
Officials do not see Mr. Trump’s rise as merely an American version of the anti-immigration and isolationist parties that have picked up support across Europe. They are finding signs of tangible political change in statements by Democratic leaders, as well.
这些官员并不把特朗普的崛起仅仅看作反移民情绪和孤立主义党派在欧洲各地获得支持的美国版本。他们在民主党领导层的言论中也发现了切实的政治变迁的迹象。
Already, Mr. Trump’s assertive positions about American interests have led some officials to look again at President Obama’s recent critique of European and Persian Gulf allies as “free riders.” They have also helped shed light abroad on the domestic political forces at play around Hillary Clinton’s decision to renounce her support for a new Asian trade deal.
特朗普坚决维护美国利益的立场已经导致一些官员开始重新审视奥巴马总统最近对美国在欧洲和波斯湾的盟友发出的批评，即它们是在“搭便车”。这些言论也帮助外界了解到，在希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)决定放弃对一项新亚洲贸易协定的支持背后，是哪些国内政治力量在发挥作用。
Some, too, are revisiting the words of Robert M. Gates in his last weeks as defense secretary in 2011. Mr. Gates warned that a new generation of Americans with no memory of the Cold War would eventually ask whether NATO, the central institution of European security, was an artifact, like the single segment of the Berlin Wall that remains standing as a reminder of the past. In Europe last month, Mr. Obama pressed allies to live up to commitments to spend 2 percent of their gross domestic product on defense, a benchmark that few have hit.
一些人还提到了2011年罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)在担任国防部长的最后几周说的话。盖茨警告称，没有冷战记忆的新一代美国人最后会问，负责欧洲安全事务的核心机构北约，是否只是一件历史遗留物，就像保留下来的那段柏林墙一样。那段墙仍矗立在原地，提醒人们不要忘记过去的历史。上月在欧洲，奥巴马向盟友施压，要求对方兑现承诺，将国内生产总值的2%用作军费。目前，没几个国家达到这个基本要求。
“Some of the claims made during the campaign have been empty or just wrong,” said Peter Westmacott, a former British ambassador to the United States, where he was regarded as one of the savviest analysts of American-European relations. “There is no ‘better Iran nuclear deal,’ and not many people think it is a good idea for South Korea or Japan to acquire nuclear weapons.”
“竞选期间的部分言论相当空洞，或者根本就是错的，”前英国驻美大使彼得·韦斯特马科特(Peter Westmacott)说。“没有‘更好的伊朗核协议’这回事儿，也没多少人认为韩国或日本获得核武器是个好主意。”在美国，韦斯特马科特被认为是最在行的美欧关系分析人士之一。
“But others should give us Europeans pause for thought,” he said. “NATO members need to reflect on whether it’s right, or sustainable, for the U.S. to pay over 70 percent of the bill for our collective security, or how to ensure we take care of the losers as well as the winners in global free trade.”
“但其他一些言论应该让我们欧洲人认真想想，”他说。“北约的成员国需要反思，我们的集体安全的账单70%由美国支付这种做法对不对，或是否可持续，或者如何确保我们兼顾了全球自由欧贸易中的输家和赢家。”
Clearly, many European policy makers were already upset with Mr. Obama’s reluctance to intervene on their behalf in conflicts where they have national interests, and with his demand that European nations put what he called, in an interview with The Atlantic, more “skin in the game.”
显然，欧洲的很多政策制定者已经对奥巴马感到不快，因为后者不愿代表他们介入涉及他们的国家利益的冲突，并在接受《大西洋月刊》(The Atlantic)采访时要求欧洲国家承担更多“风险”。
Europeans cite the United States’ reluctance to take the lead in ousting Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi from Libya, an operation that revealed major flaws in NATO operations. And they are unconvinced by Mr. Obama’s insistence that he made the right decision in backing away from the “red line” he had drawn over the use of chemical weapons by President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.
欧洲提到了美国不愿在推翻利比亚的穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Moammar Gadhafi)的行动中带头。该行动暴露了北约的运作中存在的重大缺陷。此外，尽管奥巴马坚称自己在叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)使用化学武器一事上未去坚持自己的“红线”是正确决定，但欧洲人并不信服。
“Over all, I would say there are too many signs of American retrenchment and retreat,” said Anders Fogh Rasmussen, a former prime minister of Denmark who was NATO secretary general until 2014. Europeans, he said, would generally prefer an American president “who will demonstrate determined American leadership,” even as, to many analysts, Mr. Trump’s rise suggests pressure for the nation to turn inward.
“总而言之，我想说有太多的迹象表明，美国在收缩，在后退，”直到2014年一直担任北约秘书长的前丹麦首相安诺斯·福格·拉斯穆森(Anders Fogh Rasmussen)说，并表示欧洲人普遍更青睐一位“能展现美国强大领导力”的美国总统。但此时，在很多分析人士看来，特朗普的崛起表明美国面临着把重心转向国内的压力。
Mr. Rasmussen said he saw Mr. Trump’s demands on NATO as an acceleration of the Obama administration’s effort to encourage more burden sharing. But they come with an isolationist twist, he said. The “America first” term, embraced by Mr. Trump in a recent interview with The New York Times, goes back to a movement led by Charles A. Lindbergh in the 1930s to keep America out of war in Europe.
拉斯穆森表示，他认为特朗普对北约提出的要求，是奥巴马政府鼓励北约成员国分担更多责任的行动的升级。但他说，这些要求新添了一种孤立主义色彩。特朗普最近在接受《纽约时报》采访时支持的“美国优先”这个说法，可追溯至查尔斯·A·林德伯格(Charles A. Lindbergh)在30年代领导的一场运动。该运动旨在让美国远离欧洲的战争。
The European reaction to the revival of that term has been so sharp that American military leaders, while reluctant to get involved in the campaign, have tried to take on Mr. Trump’s arguments.
欧洲对重提这个说法的反应如此强烈，以至美国军方领导人虽不愿卷入竞选活动之中，却还要努力驳斥特朗普的论点。
Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, who just stepped down as the supreme allied commander for Europe, wrote in The Washington Post this week that when he assumed his position in 2013, he thought that arguments about NATO’s utility were “without merit, and there was no need to engage.” Now, he said, without naming Mr. Trump, he felt compelled “to explain to my fellow countrymen why the United States absolutely needs NATO — a NATO that is strong, resilient and united.”
刚卸任欧洲司令部盟军最高指挥官的菲利普·M·布里德洛夫上将(Gen. Philip M. Breedlove)本周在《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)上撰文称，2013年上任时，他认为有关北约的作用的争论“毫无意义，无需介入其中”。但他说，现在他觉得必须“向我的同袍解释为何美国绝对需要北约，一个强大、有弹性、团结的北约”。布里德洛夫未指名道姓地提到特朗普。
Five members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff made a similar set of arguments at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York on Tuesday, also avoiding any mention of Mr. Trump’s name.
周二，参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)的五名成员也在纽约的对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)做出了类似的一系列论述，且同样丝毫未提及特朗普的名字。
But to many who live on Russia’s raw border, especially in the Baltic nations in Moscow’s shadow, there is nothing more puzzling than Mr. Trump’s reluctance to criticize President Vladimir V. Putin. He has often spoken admiringly of Mr. Putin, saying he respects his strength and views him as someone with whom he can negotiate. To European ears, that sounds as if Mr. Trump may be playing into Mr. Putin’s hands, opening a rift within NATO.
但对很多生活在俄罗斯周边，尤其是处于莫斯科阴影下的波罗的海国家的人来说，最令人不解的是特朗普不愿抨击弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)。特朗普常语带敬意地讲到普京，说他尊重对方的实力，并视普京为能与自己谈判对话的人。在欧洲人听来，普朗普的言论似乎正中普京的下怀。而这给北约内部制造了一条裂痕。
“Russia’s enthusiasm about Trump seems to be predicated on the assumption that he may actually withdraw forces from Europe,” said Matthew Rojansky, the director of the Kennan Institute, a Washington research group focused on Russia and the former Soviet Union.
“俄罗斯对特朗普的热情，似乎是建立在认为他可能真的会从欧洲撤军的基础上的，”重点研究俄罗斯和前苏联的华盛顿凯南研究所(Kennan Institute)的所长马修·罗詹斯基(Matthew Rojansky)说。
Mr. Trump’s argument that Seoul and Tokyo, which host tens of thousands of American troops, need to pay more or see the troops leave bewildered officials in those countries. Japan pays roughly $2 billion a year toward the troops’ housing, and military leaders often say it would be more costly for American taxpayers to base those same troops in Guam or in the mainland United States. The United States also keeps an aircraft carrier group in Japan.
特朗普称韩国和日本需承担更多费用，否则美国便应撤兵的说法，让驻扎了数万美军的韩日两国的官员困惑不解。日本每年要支付大致20亿美元，用于美军的住宿。美国军方领导人常表示，对美国的纳税人来说，把这些美军部署在关岛或是美国本土的代价会更高。美国还在日本部署了一个航空母舰群。