Allen Hsieh became mesmerized by watches while growing up in Taichung, an industrial center on the western coast of Taiwan. “They seemed to me like little machines inside of very small cases,” he recalled.
谢承晔(Allen Hsieh)在台湾西海岸的工业中心台中市长大，他从小迷恋手表。他回忆：“我觉得它们像小小盒子里的小机器。”
Mr. Hsieh, now 36, has always been familiar with machinery. His father owns a company whose products range from musical instruments to plastics. The younger Mr. Hsieh now manages the business.
36岁的谢非常熟悉机械。他父亲拥有一家公司，生产从乐器到塑料制品在内的各种东西。现在这家公司由他掌管。
Initially, he was intrigued by gifts of Swatches, including a much-coveted Olympic series that he said, regretfully, “I’ve lost.” But then his father, a watch aficionado himself, gave Mr. Hsieh a Jaeger-LeCoultre Reverso when he was 13 and about to head to Australia for school. “I couldn’t believe it,” he said. “There were no batteries inside it. You just had to wind it. It was like magic to me.”
最初，他迷上了自己收到的斯沃琪(Swatch)手表礼物，包括他垂涎已久的奥林匹克系列，不过他说，遗憾的是，“我把它们弄丢了”。不过，他13岁时要去澳大利亚上学时，同为手表迷的父亲送给他一块积家翻转腕表(Jaeger-LeCoultre Reverso)。他说：“我简直不敢相信，里面没有电池，只要上发条就行。我觉得很神奇。”
Mr. Hsieh said he became so enamored of mechanical watches, especially from the top houses, that “I started collecting books so I could study them.”
谢说，他开始迷恋机械手表，特别是顶级制表公司出品的，“我开始收藏相关的书，去研究它们”。
During high school and college, he “worked in a friend’s restaurant and in a tax-free shop to get the money to buy watches,” he said, “and that took a long time.” But he managed to buy a Panerai and an IWC 3703 GST Titanium Chronograph. The IWC “was a beautiful color and there weren’t many titanium watches back then,” he said.
上高中和大学时，他“在朋友的餐馆和一家免税店打工，赚钱买手表，”他说，“攒了很长时间”。不过他还是攒够钱买了一块沛纳海手表(Panerai)和一块万国(IWC)3703 GST钛合金表。他说：万国表“颜色很好看，那时候钛合金手表不多”。
When Mr. Hsieh finished school, about 10 years ago, he spent two years in Japan to learn the language and one year in Thailand. He then returned to Taichung to start working in the family business, and that is when he really started collecting watches.
大约十年前，谢完成学业后，在日本待了两年，学习语言，后来又在泰国待了一年。然后他返回台中，开始在自己的家族企业里工作，从那时起他真正开始收藏手表。
His first purchase was a Rolex Daytona. “I realized I was not a student anymore,” he said, “and I wanted something for myself, something that said, ‘I’m in business.”’ A Breguet Tradition 7057 and a Blancpain L-Evolution Moonphase 8 Days soon followed.
他先是买了块劳力士迪通拿(Rolex Daytona)。他说：“我意识到，我不再是学生。我想给自己买点能表明‘我在商界工作’的东西。”8天后，他很快又买了一块宝玑(Breguet)Tradition 7057手表和一块宝珀(Blancpain)L-Evolution Moonphase月相手表。
Mr. Hsieh, a watch geek-in-the-making, became a familiar figure to the owner of a watch store in Taichung, stopping by not just to buy but also to talk about watches. So when Maximilian Büsser, the much-admired founder of the independent watchmaker MB&F (Maximilian Büsser and Friends), came to Taichung, the shop owner invited Mr. Hsieh and his wife, Crystal, to attend a dinner in Mr. Büsser’s honor.
谢就这样慢慢成了手表迷，也成了台中一家手表店的常客，他去那里不仅是为了买表，也是为了和人谈论手表。所以，当备受尊敬的独立手表制造商MB&F的创始人马克西米利安·布瑟(Maximilian Büsser)到台中时，店主邀请谢和妻子克丽丝特尔(Crystal)去参加布瑟的欢迎晚宴。
It was 2011 and Mr. Hsieh and his wife had recently been married. He knew she was his soul mate the moment they met. “She was wearing a Glashütte with diamonds on it. I was like, ‘You’re wearing a mechanical watch.’ We started talking about watches and she was very informed.”
那是在2011年，谢和妻子刚结婚。初次见面，他就知道她是自己的灵魂伴侣。“她戴着镶钻的格拉苏蒂(Glashütte)手表。当时我说，‘你戴的是机械手表吧。’我们开始谈论手表，她非常内行。”
Mr. Hsieh said he was impressed by Mr. Büsser. “He has passion,” he said. “He’s one of a kind.”
谢说，布瑟给他留下了深刻印象。他说：“他有激情。独一无二。”
He fell in love with the company’s products. “I didn’t know about independent watches before,” he said. “I had never seen any independent watches before that dinner. After the dinner, I bought my first independent watch from him, an MB&F HM3.”
他爱上了这家公司的产品。他说：“之前，我不了解独立手表。在那次晚宴之前，我从没见过独立手表。晚宴之后，我从他那里买了第一块独立手表，一块MB&F HM3。”
“I had to wait six months for the watch,” Mr. Hsieh said, but it was worth the wait. “It’s so special. It’s so different from my watches before. It has no hands. It looks like a spaceship.”
谢说，“我必须等六个月才能拿到那块手表”，但是等待是值得的，“它很特别，跟我之前的手表很不同。它没有指针，形状像宇宙飞船。”
It is also a conversation starter. “Every time I wear it somebody asks about it,” he said. “Even strangers on the street want to know, ‘What is that?”’
它总能成为一个话题引子。他说：“每次我戴着它，总有人问起它。甚至连街上的陌生人都想知道，‘那是什么？’”
Sometimes the attention can be a bit unnerving. “I was walking down London’s Bond Street and I noticed two guys following me,” he said. “They were wearing nice suits and it was Bond Street, after all,” but still, he was a little concerned. Then the men stopped him and one asked, “Is that an MB&F?” Mr. Hsieh explained that the watch was one of a limited edition of 66, “so it’s not often you get to see one.” Since then, he also has bought an MB&F HM5 and Legacy Machine 1.
有时手表引起的关注有点令人不安。他说：“我走在伦敦的邦德街上，注意到有两个人跟着我。毕竟，他们穿着精致的西服，而且是在邦德街上”，不过他还是有点担心。后来那两个男人叫住他，其中一个问道：“那是MB&F吗？”谢说，那块手表是一块66限量版，“所以很不常见”。后来，他又买了一块MB&F HM5和一块Legacy Machine 1。
Another invitation to dinner with a watchmaker led to another purchase. “Years ago I had seen a De Bethune moon phase and liked it because it is very special. The moon phase is shaped like a ball, not like other moon phases,” Mr. Hsieh said. When he met the company’s chief executive, Pierre Jacques, he decided to buy the watch.
他应邀参加另一位手表制造商的晚宴，结果又买了手表。谢说：“多年前，我见过一块De Bethune月相手表，非常喜欢，因为它很特别。它的月相形状跟其他的不同，像个球。”见到这家公司的首席执行官皮埃尔·雅克(Pierre Jacques)之后，他决定买下这款手表。
Part of the appeal is its rarity. “There were only 50 made,” Mr. Hsieh said. Another appeal is how it feels. “It’s very light, thin and comfortable to wear,” he said, and it is also “very beautiful.”
这款手表的魅力之一源自它的稀有。谢说，“总共才做了50块。”另一个原因是它给人的感觉。他说：“它戴上去轻薄舒适”，而且“很好看”。
Mr. Hsieh’s love of independent watchmakers extends to the creations of Franck Muller.
谢对独立手表制造商的喜爱又发展到对弗兰克·穆勒(Franck Muller)作品的喜爱。
“I bought a Franck Muller watch called ‘Take Your Time,’ and what’s really interesting is that the hour hand goes faster during work hours, for example, from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m.,” he said, “and then slower during the lunch break. The time is actually working right. It’s just the display is different, which can make you feel like you have a long break time.”
他说：“我买了一块名为‘慢慢享受’(Take Your Time)的弗兰克·穆勒手表，它的有趣之处在于，时针在工作时间（比如从早上8点到12点）走得较快，午餐时间走得较慢。实际上它走时准确。只是显示方式不同，这样你会感觉自己的午餐时间更长。”
An appreciation of such innovation led Ms. Hsieh to conclude that “I’ll only buy independent watches now. They’re different, totally special. And people notice.”
因为喜欢这种创新，谢决定，“以后只买独立手表。它们与众不同，非常独特。而且引人注目。”
Recently, he commissioned Bovet to enamel a watch just for him. Well, him and his wife. “I asked them to paint the face with a fairy with wings,” he said. “It was my wife’s choice, so we can share wearing it.”
前不久，他委托播威(Bovet)专门为他的一块手表进行珐琅镶饰。呃，实际上那块表属于他和妻子。他说：“我让他们在表盘上镶饰一个带翅膀的仙女。那是我妻子的想法，我们轮着戴。”
Mr. Hsieh also appreciates art, particularly sculpture, and he has combined his passions by creating display cases that also wind his watches.
谢也很喜欢艺术，尤其是雕塑，他把对雕塑的热爱用来制作展示盒，那些盒子还能给他的手表上发条。
One of them is a dazzling metal spiral that he named “The Dream,” and describes as “big and heavy and made of an aluminum alloy.”
有一个是炫目的螺旋形金属盒，他命名为“梦”，他说它“又大又重，是用铝合金做成的”。
The other, which he called “The Lucky Egg,” is made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic, a material used for yachts. It looks like a big white egg, holds a selection of watches and operates on the same principle as a pinball machine, though it really needs to be seen to be understood.
还有一种盒子叫“幸运蛋”(The Lucky Egg)，它是用玻璃纤维强化塑料做成的，这种材料经常用来做游艇。它看起来像个大白蛋，盛放着几块精选出来的手表，它的运行原理和弹球机一样，不过你真的需要亲眼看到它才能理解它的运行机制。
Mr. Hsieh makes each Lucky Egg by hand, which takes three months. They sell for $12,000 at Mr. Büsser’s M.A.D. Gallery in Geneva and on his own website, allen-hsieh.com.
谢亲手制作每一个幸运蛋，每个都要耗时3个月。这些幸运蛋在布瑟的日内瓦MAD画廊(MAD Gallery)和谢自己的网站allen-hsieh.com有售，每个1.2万美元。
He has limited the series to 28. Why?
这个系列他只做了28个。为什么呢？
“I like the number 8 because it means infinity and looks beautiful, and it is also a lucky number to Chinese people,” he said. “But the most interesting thing is that me and my two kids were all born on the 28th, only the month is different.”
他说：“我喜欢8这个数字，因为它意味着无穷，看起来很漂亮，而且中国人觉得8是一个吉利的数字。不过最有意思的是，我和两个孩子都出生在28号，只是月份不同。”
To Mr. Hsieh, it’s another example of the magic that drew him to watches in the first place.
在谢先生看来，这是手表最初吸引他的又一个神奇之处。