No book in recent memory has been as splashily misrepresented as Wednesday Martin’s “Primates of Park Avenue.” It is supposed to have blown the lid off the darkest secrets of the wealthy, glamorous Upper East Side wife-and-mommy set. Ms. Martin unearthed these secrets — including that of the buzzed-about “wife bonus,” which her book barely mentions — by living among and masquerading as one of those rich RoboMoms while also doing “fieldwork” in anthropology and primatology, like an urban Jane Goodall with an interest in social-climbing and fashion.
在我的记忆里，最近没有哪本书像薇妮斯蒂·马丁 (Wednesday Martin)的《公园大道的灵长目生物》(Primates of Park Avenue)这样遭到井喷式的误读。人们认为这本书揭开了富有迷人的上东区“妻子妈咪圈”里最黑暗的秘密。马丁挖开这些秘密——包括书中提到的引起轰动的"贤妻奖金"——的方法是，假扮成同样富有的机器人般的妈妈在上东区生活。同时，她进行着人类学和灵长类学的“田野调查”，就像城市里的珍·古道尔(Jane Goodall)，对社会地位的攀升和时尚抱有兴趣。
Ms. Martin’s description of her book as a “stranger-than-fiction story” is fair — but only because fiction usually makes sense.
马丁说自己的书“比小说还离奇”，她说得没错，只不过小说通常还有点意义。
Instead of a tell-all, “Primates of Park Avenue” is a conventional memoir with a gimmick. Ms. Martin frames it as a scientific report on a certain unnamed island (Manhattan’s longitude and latitude are given) that is divided into four quadrants along up-down and east-west axes. Ms. Martin, who grew up in Michigan and once studied science but now bills herself as “a cultural critic at large in high heels,” migrated here, married and lived for years in the lower part of the island. “Down,” as she labels it, was considered “primarily a place for pre-reproductives, cultural ‘outsiders,’ feasting and ecstatic nighttime rites.”
《公园大道的灵长目生物》不是全盘托出，而是一部带着诡计的传统型回忆录。马丁把它框定为关于某个无名小岛的科学报告（书中给出了曼哈顿的经纬度），这个小岛按照上-下和东-西轴线分成四个象限。在密歇根长大、曾修过科学的马丁，现在自我标榜为“穿着高跟鞋的自由文化批评家”。她搬到纽约，结了婚，在该岛的下城居住多年。按照她的标定，“下城”被人们认为“主要是还没生孩子的人和文化上‘圈外人’呆的地方，也是吃喝宴请与午夜狂欢的场所。
But after the Sept. 11 attacks, she and her prosperous husband decided to move their family Up and to the East, to a region known for “perceived formality and conservatism.” Not to mention elite private schools, expensive everything, a baby boom and mothers with perfect blond hair.
但“911”事件后，她和富有的丈夫决定搬到更富有的东部——一个以“拘谨、保守”闻名的地方。那里有很多精英私立学校，什么东西都贵，人口出生率高，妈妈们有着完美的金发——这些自不必说。
Ms. Martin, who happened to be thin and blond to begin with, presents herself as having been totally naïve about the Upper East Side and its mysterious ways. So she describes her arrival as if she had just landed from Mars. Real estate “shamans” teach her how to convey authority or at least how to stop dressing like her funky former self. The lissome owner of the apartment she winds up buying asks whether they’ll meet at the Breakers in Palm Beach or in Aspen — which seems a nonsensical question, since the former owner is only moving upstairs to the penthouse. Surely, they’ll meet on the street or in the building’s lobby.
碰巧身材苗条、一头金发的马丁，对上东区及其神秘方式表现得一无所知。所以，她将自己的来临形容为像是刚从火星降落。房产代理人像“萨满教巫医”，教她如何表现出威严，或者至少不要穿得像从前那样独特。她最后买下了一套公寓，那套公寓的前主人姿态优雅。可这位前主人竟然问道，将来是否会在棕榈滩的浪花度假村(Breakers)或阿斯彭碰见马丁。这个问题很荒谬，因为这个人不过是要搬到公寓楼的顶层。他们肯定会在大街上或公寓楼大堂里碰见。
Ms. Martin encounters the horribly unfriendly mothers at the private school to which she sends her older son. Predictably, these mothers dress identically and give her the deep freeze. She is on very tired territory as she describes their outfits, snootiness and ability to act as if they haven’t heard a word she’s said (Play date? What play date?), since this is a mix of voyeurism and chick-lit without any new ingredient. What does give this anecdote some gasp-worthiness is the way Ms. Martin solves her popularity problem: by flirting with one of the most desirable and powerful men who has a child her son’s age. That she sees this as a great way to solve her entree issue might have warranted more thought than it gets here.
马丁把大儿子送到一个私立学校读书，在那里，她遇到了非常不友好的妈妈们。可想而知，那些妈妈们着装一致，对马丁冷若冰霜。马丁描绘了她们的着装、傲慢以及装模作样的态度——她们假装听不见马丁说的每一句话（演出日？什么演出日？），不过这段写得很无趣，就像窥淫癖和小鸡文学的混合体，没有任何新意。这部秘史还有一个地方让人大跌眼镜，那就是马丁解决自己不受欢迎问题的方法：她和一个特别惹人喜爱、极有权势的男人调情，那个男人的孩子跟她儿子年龄相仿。她认为这是打入圈子的极佳办法。虽然书中对这件事没有深入讨论，但她的这种做法值得深思。
But Ms. Martin’s best arguments take the form of hurling a chimp or bonobo at human situations in the name of maintaining the title’s scientific conceit. Ms. Martin doesn’t care whether the analogy is germane. In an otherwise funny diatribe about the excesses of East Side exercise classes, she suddenly starts musing on exercise outfits: “Sure, we all wore the same tight exercise pants, sometimes with lines crisscrossing the derrière, drawing attention to our bottoms in a way that put me in mind of the bright pink estrus displays of nonhuman female primates. Look at me! I’m in heat! our spandex-encased, highlighted bottoms seemed to scream. But the similarities ended there.” (Italics mine.)
在马丁最优秀的论述中，她强行把黑猩猩或倭黑猩猩置于人类情景，从而让这本书继续保持在自诩的科学目的的名下。马丁不在乎这种类比是否贴切。书中有一段抨击了东区锻炼课程的过度。这段本可以很有趣，但她突然开始思考运动服装：“当然，我们都穿着同样的紧身运动裤，有些裤子的线条在臀部交汇，用来吸引别人对臀部的关注。这让我想起了非人类雌性灵长类在发情期亮出鲜粉色阴部的情形。看看我！我在发情！我们被氨纶包裹的突出的臀部似乎在呐喊。但是相似之处到此为止（斜体部分是我想说的话）。”
Then why are we reading about them? Because someone has a book to fill and a theme to stick to, regardless of whether it has any point. Ms. Martin is actually much better when she writes about the absurd use of “thug” among SoulCyclers, who use certain gang affectations with impunity, at least when they’re safely out in the Hamptons.
既然没有太多相似之处，那为什么要写呢？就因为某人需要给一本书充字数，需要不断提到书的主题——不管这个主题有没有道理。在谈论Soulcycle健身房的健身者们滥用“暴徒”服饰时，马丁要写得好得多——她们恣意使用黑帮的某些常见服饰，至少当她们安全地在汉普斯顿外出时。
But the book’s most egregious logical whopper is its attempt to justify the author’s craving for an expensive Birkin bag in the name of a hapless Goodall chimp named Mike. First we must hear about the glories of the Birkin in endless detail. And if you don’t know what these things are, this isn’t the time to find out. Let’s just say that they are pricey and highly identifiable handbags and that Ms. Martin swears she has seen “U.E.S.” (Upper East Side) women who own them using them to physically accost women who don’t.
这本书最惊人的弥天大谎是作者努力证明，自己渴望得到一个昂贵的柏金包(Birkin)是合情合理的。她以一个名叫迈克(Mike)的倒霉的古道尔黑猩猩为旗号。首先，我们必须没完没了地听她详细讲述柏金包的各种荣耀。如果你不知道这些东西是什么，现在不是弄清楚的时候。简单地说就是，这些手提包很昂贵，辨识度很高。马丁发誓说，她见过拥有柏金包的上东区女人们用它来引诱那些没有这种包的女人。
She stakes out certain apartment buildings and store entrances and stands there with coffee, doing more “fieldwork” to verify this thesis. (“My inner social researcher wanted more data.”) She also claims to have herself been “charged” by a Birkin-bearing dowager. Far from allowing this behavior to sully the Birkin’s reputation, she fondly remembers Mike the chimp, who dragged around empty kerosene canisters to assert his dominance and sustained alpha status for five years this way. Ergo, her husband must buy her a Birkin, too.
为了证明这个论点，她偷偷监视某些公寓大楼和商店入口，手里拿着咖啡站在那里，进行更多的“田野调查”（“我内心的社会调查者想要获得更多数据”）。她还声称自己被挎着柏金包的贵妇人“攻击”。她绝不允许贵妇人的这种行为玷污柏金包的名声，所以怜爱地想起了黑猩猩迈克，它拖着空煤油罐四处走动，用这种方式维持自己的统治地位长达五年之久。因此，她丈夫也应该给她买个柏金包。
Only briefly does Ms. Martin get to the economic heart of these matters. She works, so she is not entirely dependent on her husband’s largess, but she still has to ask for that bag as a gift. And she does notice that women who earn their own money are in a better bargaining position than women who expect men to pay for their upkeep. But money and its sources should have been crucial to this book about immense privilege. Her very slender bibliography might have leaned more heavily in the direction of Leslie Bennetts’s “The Feminine Mistake,” about the importance of women’s financial independence, and less toward seemingly irrelevant titles like “Maya Children: Helpers at the Farm.”
马丁只是非常简略地提到经济在这些问题中的意义。她自己有工作，所以她并不用完全依靠丈夫的赠与。不过那个包她还是买不起，需要丈夫买来当礼物。她确实注意到，自己挣钱的女人相比于期待男人支付账单的女人，处于更有利的谈判地位。但是，对于这本讲述巨大特权的书来说，金钱及金钱的来源应该非常重要。她的参考书目很短，应该多一些莱斯利·贝内特(Leslie Bennetts)的《女性的错误》（The Feminine Mistake，该书讲述的是女子经济独立的重要性）这类书，少一些似乎毫不相关的书，比如《马雅儿童：农场的帮手》(Maya Children: Helpers at the Farm)。