The slow crackup of China’s last imperial dynasty during its “century of humiliation” was so fantastical it could have been made up by a comic book artist: an aspiring civil servant failed his entrance exam, fell into a delirium, dreamed he was the younger brother of Jesus Christ sent to deliver China from the Qing dynasty and ignited the Taiping Rebellion in 1850. Twenty million people died in the ensuing chaos. In the late 1890s, peasants from the north, affronted by Western influence in the empire, formed a secret society to practice the martial and spiritual disciplines of Chinese folk religion, which some believed made them invulnerable to European bullets and cannon fire. The belief did not survive the test of experience, but did earn the Boxer Rebellion an enduring place in popular memory.
在中国的“屈辱世纪”里，最后一个封建王朝的缓慢崩塌十分不可思议，简直像是一个漫画家编造出来的：一位志向远大的文职人员没有通过科举考试，变得神志不清，以为自己是耶稣基督的弟弟，被派来把中国从清朝的统治下解救出来，他在1850年发起了太平天国运动。两千万人死于之后的社会动荡。19世纪90年代末，中国北方的农民因受到西方在华势力的侮辱，组成了一个秘密社团，他们练习武术，信奉中国民间宗教，一部分人以为信教可以让自己刀枪不入。这种信仰没有经得起现实的考验，但是义和团运动却长久地留在了大众的记忆里。
An alliance of British, French, German, Austro-Hungarian, Russian, American, Italian and Japanese soldiers easily crushed the Boxers and the imperial Chinese soldiers who joined them, but not before the Boxers had killed more than 30,000 Chinese Christian converts. The Westerners had arrived preaching a Christian message of peace and compassion. They also came in search of easy profits from the opium trade, and waged a war to ensure those profits kept flowing. The indie comic artist Gene Luen Yang, a child of Taiwanese immigrants to the United States and an observant Roman Catholic, wrestles with the central ambiguity of colonialism throughout his remarkable set of linked graphic novels, “Boxers” and “Saints,” recently named to the long list for the National Book Award in young people’s literature.
英、法、德、奥匈、俄、美、意、日组成的八国联军轻松打败了义和团成员以及加入他们的清朝士兵，但是在那之前，义和团已经杀死了30000多名中国基督徒。西方人来中国宣传基督教的和平和同情精神。他们也在鸦片贸易中轻松获利，并为继续获利而发起了一场战争。独立漫画艺术家杨谨伦(Gene Luen Yang)是美国台湾移民的后代，是一位严守教义的罗马天主教徒。在他的两本相互关联的精彩漫画小说《义和团》(Boxers)和《圣徒》(Saints)中，探讨了殖民主义的核心矛盾性。这两本书最近进入了国家图书奖青少年文学类的初选名单。
The nuance conveyed in the dialectical design of the companion volumes counteracts the mythmaking that can result from combining history and fable in comic book form. In “Boxers,” the story of a Chinese village boy who grows up to deliver martyrdom to the Christian heroine of “Saints” with a thrust of his sword through her heart, Yang depicts resentful peasants turning into vengeful warrior gods. In these sections, the sepia-toned palette that predominates elsewhere explodes into vivid colors that impart a heroic aura to their actions. But when they set fire to a church full of women and children, they remain the dun-colored peasants they really were all along.
这两本姐妹图书的二分法设计带来细微的差别，抵消了漫画把历史和寓言结合在一起，所造成的编造神话的感觉。《义和团》讲的是中国农村一个小男孩长大后用剑刺穿了《圣徒》中女基督徒的心脏，使她成为殉教者，杨在这里描绘的是充满忿恨的农民如何变成复仇的战神。在这一部分，主导全书其他部分的深褐色基调突然变得鲜艳生动，给他们的行为蒙上了一层英雄色彩。但是当他们纵火焚烧一座满是妇女和孩子的教堂时，画面仍是暗褐色，因为他们从始至终不过是卑微的农民。
Both volumes show how everyday humiliations by foreigners bred fear and hatred in the Chinese. But Yang also portrays the missionaries’ tireless efforts to spread Christian learning and help orphaned children. Though many Chinese found Christianity threatening (and with good cause — it stirred up social conflicts that killed millions), the faith liberated and strengthened others, like the heroine of “Saints,” a fatherless, outcast girl whose nocturnal visits from the spirit of Joan of Arc help her imagine herself a Christian warrior.
这两本书都表明，外国人对中国人的日常羞辱如何在他们心中积聚起恐惧和仇恨。但是杨谨伦也描绘了传教士们传播基督教精神和帮助孤儿的不懈努力。虽然很多中国人觉得基督教很危险（他们这么想是有原因的——基督教引起了社会冲突，导致成百上千万人死亡），但是这种信仰也使另一些人变得自由而坚强，比如《圣徒》中的女主人公。她没有父亲，无家可归，梦见圣女贞德的灵魂的鼓舞，幻想自己是一位基督教战士。
Despite the ostensibly evenhanded way Yang presents opposed perspectives, it’s clear he views the Boxer Rebellion as a series of massacres conducted by xenophobes who wound up harming the very culture they had pledged to protect. In order to attack a group of foreigners who had taken shelter in Beijing, they burned down the imperial library that housed much of the ancient literary legacy of China.
尽管杨谨伦在展示对立观点时表面上看不偏不倚，但他显然认为义和团运动是仇外者进行的系列屠杀活动，结果还损害了他们发誓保护的文化。为了打击在北京避难的一群外国人，他们烧毁了皇家图书馆，里面藏有中国古代的很多文学遗产。
Gene Luen Yang shot to prominence in 2007 when his book “American Born Chinese” became the first graphic novel to win a Printz Award for young adult literature. In it, a first-generation ­Taiwanese-American youth learns to accept his Chinese identity after “selling his soul” in order to become a white boy able to win the romantic affection of a white girl. Though Yang makes no explicit connection between the atrocities recounted in his new magnum opus and the superior desirability of the white boy in “American Born Chinese” — that would be absurd — both works proceed from the insight that what we love and whom we worship are always conditioned by relations of power. In the fraught confrontation of West and East, staged on battlefields in the 19th century, or on school playgrounds and in cafeterias in late-20th-century San Jose, the continuing story is one of inequality.
杨谨伦2007年一举成名，他的《美国出生的中国人》(American Born Chinese)一书成为第一本获得普林兹青少年文学奖的漫画小说。在那本小说中，第一代台裔美国青年为了变成一个能赢得白人女孩芳心的白人男孩，“出卖了自己的灵魂”，之后才学会接受自己的华人身份。虽然杨谨伦的新杰作中讲述的暴行与《美国出生的中国人》中渴望成为白人男孩的愿望之间没有明显的联系（要是有联系就太荒谬了），但是它们源于同一种洞见：我们热爱和崇拜的东西总是受制于权力关系。东西方令人担忧的对抗在19世纪的战场上、在学校的运动场上、在20世纪末圣何塞的自助餐厅里不断上演，这本身就是一种不平等。