“My September 11th started on September 10th,” Frank Hussey said.
“我的9·11是从9月10日开始的，”弗兰克·赫西(Frank Hussey)说。
It has yet to end.
而且现在都还没结束。
Mr. Hussey, who just turned 55, is one of the Tishman Construction superintendents guiding 3 World Trade Center 1,079 feet skyward. Before that, he was at 4 World Trade Center. Before that, at 1 World Trade Center. Before that, at 7 World Trade Center. Before that, he worked on emergency repairs to the Bank of New York’s data center, which was damaged on Sept. 11, 2001.
刚过完55岁生日的赫西是铁狮门建筑公司(Tishman Construction)的一名监理，正在指导1079英尺（约合330米）高的世界贸易中心3号楼(3 World Trade Center)的修建工作。在这之前是在世界贸易中心4号楼，再之前是世界贸易中心1号楼、世界贸易中心7号楼。再往前，他在纽约银行(Bank of New York)的数据中心进行紧急抢修。该中心在2001年9月11日遭到破坏。
Mr. Hussey has, in other words, devoted 15 years of his life to rebuilding the trade center.
换句话说，赫西已经把生命中的15年奉献给了世贸中心的重建。
But he dates his personal involvement to the night before the attack, when he was overseeing the installation of two communication masts atop an AT&T building less than a mile north of the trade center. The next morning, he was up on the rooftop to ensure the masts had been placed securely.
不过他认为，自己和9·11的联系始于袭击前的那个晚上。当时，他正在世界贸易中心以北不到一英里的地方，指导将两根通信天线杆安装在美国电话电报公司(AT&T)的一栋大楼的顶上。第二天早上，为了确保天线杆安放得牢固，他上到了屋顶。
“The first plane came directly over us,” Mr. Hussey recalled. “We heard the rumble. We were watching the belly of this plane in awe. Someone said, ‘This guy’s flying too low.’”
“第一架飞机径直从我们头顶飞过，”赫西回忆。“我们听到了轰鸣声。我们惊奇万分地看着飞机的腹部。有人说，‘这家伙飞得太低了。’”
He could not have known at that moment that the hijackers in control of American Airlines Flight 11 were precisely on course, heading for the north tower. He and the ironworkers around him could only watch stupefied as the Boeing 767 hit the building. Mr. Hussey still shivers visibly as he remembers the sight of people falling from and jumping off the tower’s upper reaches.
那一刻他不可能知道，这正是控制着美国航空11航班的劫机者选择的航线。飞机直奔北楼而去。那架波音767撞击大楼时，他和周围的钢筋工只是惊愕地看着。在回忆起众人从那栋楼的高层坠落和跳下的一幕时，仍能明显看到赫西的身体在颤抖。
“That day resonates,” he said this week.
“那一天的声音依然在回响，”他在本周说。
Mr. Hussey, who lives in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, said it took a year or two before he could watch planes over Kennedy International Airport, not far away, without slowing his car reflexively.
住在布鲁克林弗拉特布什地区的赫西说，过了一两年，他在看到飞机在不远处的肯尼迪国际机场上空飞过时，才不会条件反射似地放慢车速。
September 2001 was a low point in his life generally, when he was a divorced father bringing up two girls, 11 and 13. “There were a lot of whys at the time,” Mr. Hussey said. “It was as if you were in an abyss.” His Christian faith helped him through, he said. He wears a crucifix pendant and a New York Mets ring.
总的来说，2001年9月是他人生的低谷。作为一个离异的父亲，他带着两个女儿，一个11岁，一个13岁。“当时心里有很多个为什么，”赫西说。“像是陷入了深渊一样。”他说，基督教信仰帮助他渡过了难关。他现在戴着一个耶稣十字架受难像坠饰和一枚纽约大都会棒球队(New York Mets)的戒指。
Mr. Hussey is now among the longest-running members in the cast of thousands responsible for the astonishing re-creation of the World Trade Center.
在成千上万名负责让世界贸易中心重新惊艳亮相的人员名单中，赫西现在是服务时间最长的人之一。
He was born Aug. 16, 1961, in St. Thomas Parish, in southeastern Jamaica, the first of 13 children of Patricia and Donald Hussey. When he was a boy, his father, who moved to New York to look for work and set the stage for his family’s arrival, spotted a help-wanted advertisement for a chauffeur.
1961年8月16日，他出生于牙买加东南部的圣托马斯教区，是帕特里夏(Patricia)和唐纳德·赫西(Donald Hussey)夫妇13个孩子里的老大。在弗兰克小的时候，他的父亲先去了纽约，在那里找工作，为全家人的到来做准备。父亲看到了一个招聘司机的广告。
The position, it turned out, was to be the personal driver for John L. Tishman, then a senior vice president of the Tishman Realty and Construction Company.
结果，这个职位是给约翰·L·蒂什曼(John L. Tishman)当私人司机。后者当时是铁狮门房地产与建设公司(Tishman Realty and Construction Company)的高级副总裁。 
“Dad grew from being John Tishman’s chauffeur to clerical work and helping him with personal business,” Mr. Hussey said. “They became more than ‘Driving Miss Daisy.’ They were family.”
“爸爸一开始给约翰·蒂什曼当司机，后来从事行政工作，为他处理个人事务，”赫西说。“他们的关系比电影《为黛西小姐开车》(Driving Miss Daisy)里的两位主人公还要密切。就像是一家人。”
Though he had a summer job at Tishman, the younger Mr. Hussey planned on becoming a New York City police officer after graduating from high school. That is until Mr. Tishman, who by then was in charge of the construction side of the family business, asked him one day, “How would you like to work for me?”
尽管暑期时候曾在铁狮门打过工，但弗兰克·赫西原先的计划是在高中毕业后在纽约当一名警察。直到蒂什曼有一天问他，“你愿意来给我工作吗？”他才改变了注意。蒂什曼当时负责家族生意中的建筑业务。
Mr. Hussey worked at Tishman headquarters, 666 Fifth Avenue, coordinating and updating construction plans. He moved into the field as a plan coordinator, then became a punch-list superintendent, buttoning up the unfinished details on projects, and then became a superintendent.
赫西在位于纽约大道666号的铁狮门总部工作，协调和更新施工计划。他以施工协调人的身份进入这个领域，接着成为工程核验主管，解决项目中一些未完成的细节问题。之后，又成为一名主管。
Tishman, now a subsidiary of Aecom, has served as the construction manager at 3, 4 and 7 World Trade Center for Silverstein Properties, and at 1 World Trade Center, which was begun by Silverstein but completed by the Durst Organization.
铁狮门现为Aecom的子公司，负责世贸中心1、3、4和7号大楼的施工。其中，后面3栋楼是兆华斯坦地产公司(Silverstein Properties)开发的项目，1号楼最初是兆华斯坦的项目，但后来由德斯特集团(Durst Organization)完成。
One of Mr. Hussey’s favorite moments during the reconstruction was the discovery in 2008 of a 40-foot geological depression where the foundations of 4 World Trade Center were supposed to go. It had been carved out about 20,000 years earlier by a retreating glacier that deposited thousands of beach-smooth cobblestones around the hole, “like a hen laying eggs,” Mr. Hussey said.
在世贸大楼重建期间，赫西个人印象最深的时刻之一是在2008年发现一个40英尺（约合12米）深的地质凹陷，那原本是世贸中心4号大楼的地基所在的地方。这个坑是在大约2万年前由一座消退的冰川留下的，周围沉积着数以千计的光滑鹅卵石，看起来“就像一只母鸡在下蛋，”赫西说。
He has about a dozen of those eggs at home, including one that looks like a stitched baseball.
他的家里留着十几个这样的“蛋”，其中一个看起来像缝线棒球。
Mr. Hussey’s experience as a coordinator prepared him for his current role, overseeing logistics at 3 World Trade Center: the delivery of building supplies to the tower, the distribution of materials to the work floors and the even deployment of hoists — a frequent choke point in high-rise construction.
因为之前做协调人的经历，他得以胜任目前主管世贸中心3号大楼后勤事务的角色：将建筑材料运至大楼工地，分发材料到不同的施工楼层，甚至还要部署起重机——这在高层建筑的建设中往往是个瓶颈。
On Wednesday, Mr. Hussey had to ride herd on the arrival of 300 cubic yards of concrete, nine truckloads of steel and five trailers’ worth of exterior glass curtain wall, all of it in the swirl of traffic and pedestrians around Church and Cortlandt Streets. Lean and sure-footed as he made his way through the work floors, Mr. Hussey greeted workers warmly. He never failed to thank the hoist operators.
周三，赫西要负责监督运到工地的300立方码（合229立方米）混凝土、9卡车钢材和5拖车外层玻璃幕墙，所有这些都要穿过教堂街和寇兰街一带川流不息的车辆和行人。身形瘦削的赫西脚步沉稳地在工地里穿行，亲切地向工人们打招呼。他从来不会忘记感谢起重机驾驶员。
“I don’t have to bark,” he said. “I’m a gentle lion. But I’ve still got the bite.”
“我不需要吼叫，”他说。“我是一头温和的狮子。但也不是没有一点锋芒。”
“Humility is a big part of my lesson here,” Mr. Hussey said, as he looked over the complex from a perch on the 61st floor. “It’s the biggest thing I would leave the trade center with.”
“谦逊是我在这里学到的重要一课，”赫西说。他从61楼的一个落脚处向外眺望这个建筑群。“那会是我给世贸中心留下的最重要的东西。”
But he hopes he doesn’t have to leave just yet. There is still 2 World Trade Center to build.
但他希望自己还不用那么快离开。世贸中心2号大楼尚需建设。