Not long ago, I got an e-mail from a man thanking me for mentioning his label, Pointer Brand, in an article in 2006. This was no thank-you note. I read on: “With a lot of hard work and persistence, we recently celebrated 100 years of manufacturing in Bristol Tennessee.” It was signed: “Jack King, fourth generation, L. C. King Manufacturing Company.”
不久前，我收到一位先生的电子邮件，感谢我在2006年的一篇文章中提到了他的品牌——指示犬制衣(Pointer Brand)。这可不是那种简单几行的感谢信。信中写道：“经过长期不懈的苦心经营，我们最近庆祝了品牌在田纳西州布里斯托尔的百年历史。”信的落款是“杰克·金(Jack King)，L.C.金制造公司(L. C. King Manufacturing Company) ，第四代传人。”
Before I took the bait and called him, I looked up the article. Pointer makes work clothes that are part of the rural South: a light canvas jacket worn into the field in the morning and removed as the sun rises, dungarees and overalls of various types depending on well-marked preferences: low-back in Kentucky, high-back in Georgia. But these details I learned later. My article merely stated that the designer Junya Watanabe had modified some Pointer jackets for his men’s line. These changes, funnily, were not unlike the careful and ingenious improvements that farmers used to make on their old clothes, except the Watanabe deluxe versions started at $800.
在我“上钩”打电话给他之前，我查了一下那篇文章。指示犬制衣制作的工服构成着南方乡下生活的一部分：一件轻薄的帆布夹克可以清晨穿到田间，太阳升高以后脱掉；背带牛仔长裤和短裤根据不同需要设计各异：如果是在肯塔基州穿，要低背齐腰的，如果在佐治亚州，就要高背设计。但这些都是我后来才知道的细节。我当时的文章只是提到了设计师渡边淳弥在指示犬的一些夹克基础上修改设计了他自己的男装系列。好笑的是，这些修改设计，与过去农民们在他们的旧衣服上做的细心聪明的修改并无两样，不同的是渡边淳弥的豪华版本的价格都在800美金以上。
The people at the Tennessee factory were oblivious of all this. Oh, they knew a Japanese firm had requested some items, but they never took the trouble to find out more. Not indifferent but perhaps numb is a better description of Jack King’s response, because indeed he did crave a connection to high fashion.
在田纳西的工厂里制衣的人们对此并未留意。噢，他们知道一个日本的公司求购了几件衣服，但从来没有费心追踪下文。对此杰克·金并非毫不在乎，也许说“疏忽大意”更合适，因为其实他非常希望能与顶级时尚建立联系。
It was hard not to be impressed by the position he was in: he owned a factory in the South that hadn’t been modernized, which in the eyes of sophisticates made it a diamond in the rough, and yet, to him, in 2006, it often felt like a lump of iron strapped to his back. As I soon discovered, he came to the factory reluctantly, in 1999, when his father, Riley, became ill. Jack was in his dream job in Atlanta, at a food broker, he said, “studying the French fry market for the Pacific Rim.”
对于他所处的位置，你想不赞叹也难：他在南方拥有一家没有经过现代化转型的老式工厂，这在专业时尚人士眼中是块璞玉，但在2006年，在他自己看来，这像是一个肩上背着的沉重包袱。后来我很快得知，他在1999年父亲赖利(Riley)患病后才极不情愿地回到工厂。这之前杰克在亚特兰大做粮食经纪人，那是他梦寐以求的工作，照他的说法：“研究的是环太平洋地区的薯条市场。”
While looking up the article, I decided to punch “L. C. King” into the newspaper’s archive. Up came dozens of citations for not only L. C. King but also the H. P. King department store and E. W. King, a dry goods wholesaler; all were in Bristol. They appeared in a column, Arrival of Buyers, that ran from the preflapper era to the dawn of designer ready-to-wear, in 1970. If you sold or made goods in the United States and you wanted it known that your buyer was in town, you telephoned a number to register. In 1930, you dialed LACkawanna 1000.
查找之前那篇文章的时候，我在报纸的存档中搜索了“L.C.金”，结果找到了十几条引文，不仅包括L.C.金，而且还有百货商店H.P.金和纺织品批发商E.W.金，都在布里斯托尔。它们都出现在一个叫“买家到场(Arrival of Buyers)”的专栏里，这个专栏从摩登女郎的20年代一直延续到设计师成衣时代到来之际的70年代。在这段时期里，只要你是在美国境内生产或销售商品，如果想对买家订货的事广而告之，你就会打电话进行登记。在1930年，你就会拨打LACKawanna 1000这个号码。
The lists astonished me. From Hecht’s Reliable stores in Baltimore, to Kaufmann’s in Pittsburgh, to Laskin & Bro. in El Paso, they were a virtual directory of American retailing in an age before Walmart. I saw the O’Neil Co. of Akron. My mom bought her stockings — Hanes South Pacific, three pairs to a box; did a little wiggle walk when you lifted them out of the tissue — at the Coshocton, Ohio, branch.
这个名单让我惊叹不已。从巴尔的摩的“赫克特信赖商店(Hecht’s Reliable)”，到匹兹堡的考夫曼百货(Kaufmann’s)，再到埃尔帕索的拉斯金兄弟(Laskin & Bro)，他们是美国在沃尔玛时代之前零售业的真实写照。我也看到了阿克伦（俄亥俄州城市）的奥尼尔公司(O’Neil Co.)。我的妈妈买的长筒丝袜，是恒适的南太平洋色系(Hanes South Pacific)，购于俄亥俄州的科肖克顿分店，三双装在一个盒子里，打开包装从软纸中拿出来时，丝袜就带着静电悄然舞动。
Why I should be amazed at lists of defunct companies, when many closed for well-known reasons, I can’t say. Certainly the global fashion industry doesn’t need our dirty old factories. It has gotten along without them for 30 years, after all.
至于我为什么会对这些倒闭了的公司着迷——很多都由于众所周知的原因而倒闭——我也说不清楚。显然全球时装业并不需要我们这些脏兮兮的老工厂。毕竟这三十年来没有这些工厂，时装业还是在继续发展。
On the other hand, a drive to Tennessee might be interesting, I thought. It was May. In the back of my mind was the Rana Plaza building collapse in Bangladesh that killed 1,129 people, but my last thought, and still my last thought, was that a little factory in the Appalachians, near the Virginia line, was going to make a difference. It was David and Goliath; a campfire compared to the industrial Hades of south China.
但是又一想，一路开车到田纳西应该很有兴味。那时正值五月。我的脑子里想着孟加拉的拉纳广场(Rana Plaza)制衣工厂建筑倒塌造成1129人死亡的事件，而我的念头是，那个位于阿巴拉契亚山脉、靠近弗吉尼亚州界的小工厂，能改变这样的现状。那就像是大卫对阵歌利亚，星星营火对阵整个中国南方的工业帝国。
And you can’t fault the Chinese for taking the lead in apparel and textile production in the ’80s, for modernizing, when Western nations, including ours, wanted to be in new technology industries, though for many people that wound up meaning low-wage fast-food jobs instead of work in a clothing factory at twice the pay.
这也不能责怪中国在上世纪80年代夺过了服装纺织业的领军大旗，并实现现代化，当时包括我们在内的很多西方国家，都注目于新科技产业，尽管后来这对于很多人来说意味着在快餐行业干着低收入的工作，而没有了在制衣厂挣双倍工资的机会。
No, I was simply looking for something that felt feasible. A road trip, a different conversation from the ones I was having. I called Jack King, and a week later was 650 miles down I-81.
我并非要深究以上的话题，我仅仅是想要寻觅一些感觉可行的途径。一段公路旅行，一段不同于以往的对话。我给杰克·金打了电话，一个星期后我已经在I-81号公路上飞驰了650英里。
On the phone, I found out a little more about the company. L. C. King is the oldest cut-and-sew factory in the United States still owned by its founding family. In addition to Pointer, which Mr. King’s great-grandfather, Landon Clayton King, a sportsman, created in 1913, the factory produces work and outdoor garments for other companies. At one time these included Sears, Bass Pro Shops and 700 Walmarts in the Southeast, he said, but Nafta, in the mid-’90s, took out that business — first a chunk, then all of it.
在电话里，我又更多了解了一些有关公司的事情。L.C.金是美国最古老的、至今仍由其创始人家族经营的裁剪缝全套制衣工厂。除了1913年由金先生的祖父、热爱运动的兰顿·克莱顿·金(Landon Clayton King)创办的指示犬制衣品牌外，工厂也为其他公司制作工服和户外服装。金先生说，曾经一段时间这些公司中包括西尔斯(Sears)、专业鲈鱼商店(Bass Pro Shop)以及东南地区的700家沃尔玛超市，但是90年代中期，北美自由贸易协议(Nafta)让这块业务消失了，开始是一部分，后来则全部消失。
Mr. King spoke matter-of-factly, and was very polite. As he said, “I’m not here to dog anybody.” Before Nafta, though, the factory employed 130 people, and now it’s 28. Having Mr. Watanabe’s endorsement made a big difference in terms of confidence, he said. “It really helped us know that we can sew stuff that people want as fashion.”
金先生讲话实事求是，也彬彬有礼。他说，“我并不想要控诉谴责谁。”在北美自由贸易协议签署之前，工厂拥有130名工人，现在只剩下28名。得到渡边先生的认同极大地增强了他的信心，他说，“这真的让我们相信了，我们可以缝制出人们向往的时尚之作。”
In the last two years a number of new designers, a number of designers interested in American-made, have used the factory. “We’ve got one label from Knoxville — Marc Nelson — his stuff is absolutely gorgeous,” Mr. King said.
在过去两年里，有几位新锐设计师，几位对“美国制造”感兴趣的设计师用过这家工厂。“我们从诺克斯维尔拿到一个商标，是马克·尼尔森(Marc Nelson)品牌的，他们的设计都是绝美的。”
He then said he planned to travel to London soon to meet with an individual who had been involved with Nudie jeans, as he believed L. C. King could be developed as a brand. And Mr. Watanabe has been back in touch.
他又说，他计划近期出差到伦敦，去见一位与奴迪牛仔(Nudie Jeans)有关的人士，因为他觉得L.C.金也可以发展为这样的品牌。而且，渡边先生也又和他取得了联系。
“We’re doing some jeans for him right now,” Mr. King said. “His office called and asked, ‘Can you do 200 pairs?’ ” That number falls short of minimums in Los Angeles jeans factories. “My attitude is, heck, I’ll do anything.”
“我们正在给他做牛仔裤，”金先生说，“他的办公室打来电话问，‘你们能做200条吗？’”这个数量比一般洛杉矶牛仔工厂的接单最低数要低。“我的态度是，哎，多少都接！”
Before we hung up, he said: “We start at 5:30 a.m. Yes, ma’am, summer hours. There’s no air-conditioning.”
在挂电话之前，他说，“我们早上5点半开工。对的，女士。夏天作息时间。没有空调。”
I ARRIVED just after 8. The factory sits a block from Bristol’s main drag, trim and plain, its red brick and slanted dusty windows newly washed with sunlight. In spite of the hour, the factory didn’t seem busy. I waited on the sidewalk, thinking someone might see me, and then I entered and climbed the stairs to the factory floor.
刚过8点，我来到了工厂。厂子位于布里斯托尔的主街上，古朴简约。红砖墙，阳光洒在沾着灰尘的斜窗上。尽管是上班时间，工厂里并不显忙乱。我在楼下的便道上等了一会儿，心想这样也许他们会看到我，然后就进了楼，上到工厂的这层。
Straight ahead was a vast room with a cutting table, the length of a bowling alley, and at the end was a man — Will Holt, he is — pushing an electric knife through a stack of denim. The pine floor was a dark patina. There was hardly a noise except the purr of sewing machines or the slap of the pocket machine and a radio somewhere. The place was archaic, its rhythms from another time. It was beautiful.
眼前是一个空旷宽敞的厂房，剪裁桌足有保龄球道那么长，桌尽头站着一个人——威尔·霍尔特(Will Holt)，他正推着一把电切刀剪裁一叠牛仔布。松木地板泛着经年累月的古铜光泽。缝纫机咂咂作响，口袋制机噼啪拍打，不知放置在哪里的收音机传来广播声，除此之外，一片静谧。这里的节奏遗落在另一个时代里，古风流转，幽美醉人。
Eventually I found Mr. King in the gym he had installed in a space once filled, pre-Nafta, with Bass Pro Shop gear. Several middle-aged employees were doing pull-ups with a trainer named Chad. “I’m an athlete, a competitive swimmer,” Mr. King said. “I didn’t want the employees to think a workout would be on their time. It’s an option.”
我最终在健身房里找到了金先生。这个他布置起来的健身房，在北美自由贸易协议之前，曾满是专业鲈鱼商店的制衣装备。几个中年员工正在跟着查德(Chad)教练做引体向上。“我是个运动健将，游泳游得不错，”金先生说，“我不想让员工觉得要健身还得花业余时间。在这儿他们可选择随时锻炼。”
A medium-built man, 50, in jeans and a brown plaid shirt, with a tense air and a booming laugh, Mr. King introduced me to Ben Collins, hired about a year ago to handle social media and other types of communication. Then we went on a tour of the factory, starting in the stockroom, where wooden crates from the ’30s serve as shelves for chore jackets and brand-new blue overalls.
金先生把本·柯林斯(Ben Collins)介绍给我，他中等身材，50岁，穿牛仔裤和棕色格子衬衣，一年前受聘，负责社交媒体及其他公共关系工作。然后他们带我参观了工厂，从仓库起，那里摆放着上世纪30年代的木箱子，现在用作存放工服夹克和背带牛仔裤的货架。
Over the next two days, and later on the phone, it was Mr. Collins who helped unravel the enigma of L. C. King — and of Jack King, as well. Perhaps it is because he is a sensitive observer, and an outsider, who recognizes what a valuable asset the factory is in Mr. King’s world — maybe more than Mr. King does.
在接下来的两天里，以及随后在电话上，柯林斯先生为了我解开了L.C.金以及杰克·金之谜。也许因为他是个敏感善察的人，或者因为他是旁观者，他认识到这个工厂在金先生的世界里是笔多么珍贵的资产，或许比金先生本人看得更清。
The other person who helped was Marinda Holt, who has worked at L. C. King for 26 years. Skilled at almost any job in the factory, with abundant hair and a sassy charm, she works most closely with the outside designers who come in. She’s a remarkable woman.
另外一个对我帮助很大的人是米兰达·霍尔特(Marinda Holt)。她在L.C.金干了26年，对工厂里的任何一个职位都轻车熟路；她头发蓬松，泼辣迷人，在工厂里她和外来设计师的合作最密切。她实在是个杰出非凡的女人。
Mr. Collins had owned an ad agency in town, and after selling it, considered joining a major firm. He said: “The agencies I was encountering just had no taste. It’s like your end game is Chick-fil-A. I think coming to work here was a fantasy I was living. I walked by it all the time. My wife, Cam, built the back end of the Web site. I thought: ‘Why not? This is going to be an unpredictable and rewarding experience.’ I’m so happy I’ve done it.”
柯林斯先生此前在这座城市拥有自己的一家广告公司，把公司卖掉后，他曾考虑加入一家大的广告公司。他说，“可那些我接触了的广告公司，没有一点格调，他们的目标就好像是要把所有的品牌都变成千篇一律的福来鸡快餐店(Chick-Fil-A)一样的连锁品牌。我觉得来这儿工作是我那时的梦想。我老是从工厂前经过。我的太太卡姆(Cam)为他们建立了网站后端。我心想：‘何不试一下？这应该会是充满未知和收获的经历。’走了这一步我很高兴。”
Early on, he saw that Pointer was getting lots of traffic from Reddit, thanks to Japanese hipsters and West Coast workwear fans, and the company was ignoring it. Clearly Mr. Collins regards L .C. King as this delicate organism. “As someone who was burned out on fake marketing, I got here and I suddenly felt, ‘Don’t touch anything,’ ” he said, with a laugh. For instance, he found out that the founder was a Harley fan who owned custom guns and shoes.
早些时候，他发现由于日本的时尚人士和美国西海岸热捧工作服的粉丝们的青睐，指示犬品牌经常在热提网(Reddit)上被提及，而公司对此并未留意。显而易见，柯林斯先生已经将L.C.金公司视为一个完美的生命体。“作为一个对于虚假的市场营销已经感到烦厌了的人，我来到这里，突然感觉到，‘什么也不用编造！’”他说完大笑起来。比如，他发现创始人还是一位哈雷摩托车的忠实拥趸，并拥有量身定做的枪和鞋。
“L. C. didn’t wear overalls,” he said. “I feel he’s one of the keys.”
“L. C.不穿背带牛仔裤，”他说，“我觉得他本人就是品牌故事的关键词之一。”
Jack King’s actions are harder to figure. He surprised me when, as we were coming into the factory’s original, sun-faded office, he said: “I can’t get Cone Denim to return my phone calls. I’ve called their office, no lie, five times in the past year.” Cone, in nearby Greensboro, N.C., is a renowned supplier of narrow selvage denim, made on ’40s-era looms. It’s hard to harbor serious fashion ambitions without it. Mr. King shrugged. “But that’s O.K. People don’t really know L. C. King Manufacturing exists. I am the secret of the South. I really am.”
相比之下，杰克·金的言行更难以捉摸一些。当我们走进工厂沿用至今、晒褪了色的办公室时，他说，“我总是打不通科恩牛仔(Cone Denim)的电话。我打给他们办公室，实话实说，去年打了五次。”这让我暗自惊讶。位于邻近的北卡罗来纳州格林斯伯勒市的科恩牛仔公司，以供应窄边的赤耳牛仔布闻名，这种牛仔布是在上世纪40年代的老纺织机上织就而成的。拿不到这种布，想要真的企及时尚界有些困难。金先生耸了耸肩。“但是没事儿，人们还不知道L.C.金公司的存在。我算是个隐藏南方的秘密。我真的是。”
Yet, between 2004 and 2011, he did make connections with fashion folks in New York, including Lee Norwood, a senior executive at Ralph Lauren, who helped Mr. King develop a pattern for a $60 five-pocket jeans style, today one of L. C. King’s best sellers.
但是，在2004年至2011年间，他和纽约的时尚界人士还是建立了一些联系，其中包括拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)的高层李·诺伍德(Lee Norwood)，他帮助金先生设计了一款五口袋的牛仔裤样式，售价60美金，是现在L.C.金最畅销的款式之一。
“He’s done a good job with very little help,” Mr. Norwood said. “But he needs someone he can trust on the creative side. There’s so much to be uncovered there, but it has to be done with vision. I told him, ‘You’ve got what every fashion brand doesn’t have: purity.’ ”
“在基本没有外援的情况下，他已经做得很出色了，”诺伍德说，“但是在创意设计方面，他需要一个值得他信赖的帮手。有太多有待发掘的潜力了，但是这需要在规划的愿景中进行。我告诉他，‘你拥有所有时尚品牌没有的东西：纯本真色。’”
In fact, initially, part of the problem was that Mr. King really didn’t know what a factory did. As a boy, he wasn’t allowed on the sewing floor. Also, he said, “My dad and I had this really torrid relationship.” He didn’t get full control of the factory until 2009.
事实上，一开始的一个问题是金先生并不太了解工厂的情况。他小时候不允许上到缝纫这一层来。还有，他说：“我爸爸和我的关系实在是很棘手。”他直到2009年才真正完全掌控了工厂的所有事务。
Ms. Holt recalled: “When Jack first got here, I couldn’t stand him, to be honest with you. He thought it had to be his way or no way. ‘We’re going into fashion.’ But we weren’t into fashion then. We were in overalls and dungarees. I remember him and Riley getting into it so many times. He was so cocky. In his $200 pair of jeans, and here we are in our Walmart specials.” She laughed. “But he’s changed that, too — a whole lot. I love him like family now.”
霍尔特太太回忆说：“杰克刚上任时，说实话我简直受不了他。他觉得要么按他说的干，要么就干脆别干。他说，‘我们要进入时尚业，’ 但是我们那时候跟时尚搭不上，我们做的是背带裤和工装裤。我记得他和赖利为此争论了很多次。他总是那么高傲，穿着他200美金一条的牛仔裤，而我们穿的是沃尔玛的特价牛仔裤。”她笑起来，“但是他变了，变了很多。我现在很喜欢他，把他当家人看待。”
Mr. King said that and similar comments I heard were accurate. “I basically swallowed my pride and sucked it up and said, ‘Well, I’m going to be like this now instead of who I used to be.’ ”
金先生说我听到的这些类似评价是真的，“基本上，我就把自己的那份傲慢心气咽到肚里，面对现实，我跟自己说，‘我现在要这样为人处事了，不能像过去那样了。”
At the end of my first day in Bristol, Ms. Holt showed me some designers’ jeans made in the factory — by Lumina, a casual men’s line in Raleigh. N.C.; the beautiful Marc Nelson hand-distressed jeans; and a cool pair of Ruell and Ray by Ashley James, who left the factory after she and Mr. King tangled. Still, Ms. James said: “There’s a gold mine — a gold mine. The skill set is there.”
在布里斯托尔的第一天即将结束时，霍尔特太太给我看了工厂为一些设计师品牌定做的牛仔裤，其中包括北卡罗来纳州罗利市的一个男款休闲系列鲁米那(Lumina)，还有马克·尼尔森的漂亮的手工磨旧牛仔裤，以及阿什利·詹姆斯(Ashley James)的品牌鲁伊尔和雷(Ruell and Ray)的一条帅气的牛仔裤。詹姆斯小姐在与金先生出现矛盾后离开了工厂，尽管如此，她还是说：“那里是个大金矿，绝对是大金矿，他们具备一流的工艺技能。”
It is amazing to think that in eastern Tennessee there is a workwear factory that functions as an atelier where designers are free to work. Mr. King invites them in. It is not the refined quality of an Los Angeles factory or of, say, 3x1, Scott Morrison’s SoHo facility. It is a different quality. After trying to make his Marc Nelson jeans in Los Angeles, Marcus Hall, a charismatic guy who used to be a contractor, came to L. C. King.
这个田纳西州东边的工服制衣厂，像艺术工作室一样，容许设计师们在这里自由创作，这说起来实在让人赞叹。金先生邀请设计师们来到工厂。不像洛杉矶的工厂或者像斯科特·莫里森(Scott Morrison)创立的品牌3x1的SoHo工作室，那些地方的产品品质精密完美，千篇一律。而在这里，品质代表着不同的含义。马库斯·霍尔(Marcus Hall) 在洛杉矶的工厂尝试定制马克·尼尔森的牛仔裤后，就转而来到L.C.金，这位魅力四射的霍尔，曾是一名承包商。
“Let me say this: in Los Angeles, it was very duplicated,” he said. “I feel like, here in Bristol, it’s done by hand, like the human touch is clear.” Mr. Hall, who has produced 3,000 pairs of jeans in different styles at the factory, added, “By me coming here, it’s helped them to learn and take them out of their box.”
“我这么说吧，在洛杉矶，所有东西都是复制的，”他说，“而我觉得在布里斯托尔，所有东西都是手工做的，很有人情味。”霍尔先生已经在这个工厂里做了3000条不同款式的牛仔裤，他补充说，“而我来到这里，也帮助他们了解了更多信息，让他们跳出自己的模式。”
IF YOU WANT to know what makes fashion truly different (and maybe, as well, our stores and our communities), the answer is not a designer or a marketer. It is a manufacturer.
如果你想知道是什么让时尚真正做到与众不同，脱颖而出（也许我们的商店、社区也是同样道理），答案并非设计师或营销者，而是制造商。
“Factories don’t just exist as factories,” Robert Kidder, the owner of New England Shirt Company, in Fall River, Mass., said one afternoon. “They have to have a purpose and fulfill something special. American product has to be different.”
“工厂的存在意义已不仅仅在于工厂本身了，”马萨诸塞州福尔河的新英格兰衬衫公司(New England Shirt Company)老板罗伯特·基德尔(Robert Kidder)说，“工厂必须有更深远的存在意义，一些特别的使命。美国制造的产品必须有与众不同之处。”
In four years, Mr. Kidder, a former men’s wear executive, has built a thriving business making private-label shirts for brands like Polo but also the nation’s growing number of men’s shops. No minimums. He recently cut an elbow-patched oxford shirt for a shop in Westerly, R.I., called Huxter. The owner, who got the idea on a whim, started the summer with 45 of the $132 shirts. So far, he’s sold 300.
之前身为某男装品牌高管的基德尔先生，在四年时间里将公司业务经营得兴旺繁忙，他们为拉夫·劳伦马球(Polo)等品牌定制自有品牌的衬衫，以及国内越来越多的其他男装店。他们不要求订货数量下限。最近，他为位于罗得岛州韦斯特利一家叫做哈克思特(Huxter)的商店定制了一批补丁袖牛津纺衬衫。店主心血来潮想到要卖这种衬衫，夏初先定了45件，每件售价132美金，如今已经卖了300件。
“If you approach American-made with that attitude,” Mr. Kidder said, “it allows you to see how you can rebuild an industry in pieces.”
“如果你抱着这样的态度对待‘美国制造’，”基德尔先生说，“你就会发现你可以一点一滴地重建整个行业。”
When I caught up with Mr. King after his London trip, he said the plan is now to bring the L. C. King brand more into the world. He said he had spoken to a group of investors about possibly adding $500,000 in new machines. And he’s even reached Cone. Of course there are enormous challenges. One, as Tracy Doyle, the chief branding officer at Box Studios in New York, notes, is how to put a new spin on the craft story now that luxury brands have made it old hat.
在金先生的伦敦之行结束后，我又与他取得了联系，他说，现在的计划是让更多的人知道L.C.金这个品牌。他还告诉我，他已经和一些投资人商讨了投入50万美金购置新设备的事宜。他还终于与科恩公司取得了联系。诚然，他仍面临各种挑战。如纽约盒子工作室(Box Studios)的首席品牌官特雷西·多伊尔(Tracy Doyle)指出的，在奢侈品牌已经将关于手工艺的故事讲俗了的今天，如何让你的关于手工艺的故事出新。
But at least Mr. King is not such a secret anymore. The other day a major Nashville star contacted him about making some clothes.
但是至少现在金先生不再是一个“秘密”了。就在前几天一位纳什维尔的大明星联系了他，想要做一些衣服。
“His laugh echoed through the whole factory,” Ben Collins said. “He just has pride in his people and the factory. He wants this company and this town to make out O.K.”
“他的笑声在整个工厂里头回荡，”本·柯林斯说，“工厂和工人就是最能赋予他自豪感的。他希望他的公司和家乡都能安好。”