HONG KONG — The search for the Malaysia Airlines jet that vanished almost two years ago has involved ships scanning thousands of square miles of the Indian Ocean seabed. But what could be the most promising development in months was the result of a lone man’s search, one that took him to an uninhabited sandbank along the coast of Mozambique.
香港——马来西亚航空公司大约两年前消失的那架飞机的搜寻工作涉及到很多艘船只，它们扫描了印度洋海底数千平方英里的范围。但是几个月来最有希望的进展，来自一个人单枪匹马的搜寻工作。搜寻的路途把他带到了莫桑比克海岸，一片无人居住的沙洲。
Blaine Alan Gibson’s discovery of a triangular piece of fiberglass composite and aluminum, if it is confirmed to be from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, could add to the scant concrete evidence of what happened to the Boeing 777. The plane, with 239 people aboard, disappeared on March 8, 2014, during a flight from Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, to Beijing.
布莱恩·艾伦·吉布森(Blaine Alan Gibson)发现了一个由玻璃纤维复合材料和铝组成的三角形块状物体，如果能确认它来自马来西亚航空公司的MH370航班，就能为探究这架波音777的下落提供一些急缺的确凿证据。2014年3月8日，这架载有239人的飞机在从马来西亚首都吉隆坡飞往北京的途中失踪。
Like much of the world, Mr. Gibson, a lawyer from Seattle, said he had become intrigued by the fate of the plane while watching the intensive news coverage after its disappearance. He attended events in Kuala Lumpur marking the first anniversary of the flight, and after meeting with families of missing passengers, he decided to pursue his own investigation.
像世界各地的许多人一样，来自西雅图的律师吉布森说，在这架飞机失踪后，当他观看密集的新闻报道时，对这架飞机的命运感到非常好奇。他在吉隆坡参加了纪念该航班失踪一周年的活动，在与失踪乘客家属见面后，决定自己开展调查。
“I’m intrigued by mysteries that need to be solved and am also touched by the families who have had two years with almost no answers at all,” Mr. Gibson said by telephone from Bangkok, where he had flown en route to Kuala Lumpur for an event Sunday marking the second anniversary of the disappearance.
“我对这些需要解答的奥秘感到非常好奇，同时我也被这些两年间来，几乎没有得到任何答案的家庭所触动，”吉布森在曼谷通过电话表示。他计划飞往吉隆坡参加周日举行的一场纪念该航班失踪两周年的活动，途中在曼谷停留。
“I had some spare time and spare money, so I decided to travel to a few places to get an idea of what may have happened,” he said.
“我有一些空闲时间和闲钱，所以我决定去一些地方来了解可能发生了什么，”他说。
The quest has taken him to Myanmar, to look for debris in the Andaman Sea and examine local radar capabilities. He went to the Maldives to speak with people who claimed to have seen a low-flying plane on the day of the flight. He visited the French island of Réunion, east of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean, where the only confirmed debris from the plane to date, a part of an airplane wing called a flaperon, was found in July.
探寻的旅途将他带到了缅甸，去寻找安达曼海中的碎片并检验了当地雷达的性能。他去到马尔代夫，与一些声称在航班失踪当天，看到过一架低空飞行的飞机的人交谈。他拜访了印度洋上马达加斯加东面的法属留尼旺岛，7月那里发现了迄今唯一得到确认的飞机残骸，它是飞机机翼的一部分，被称为襟副翼。
Mr. Gibson, 58, said that his travels were part of a lifelong desire to visit all of the world’s countries, and that he tried to investigate mysteries along the way. He traveled to Russia in the early 1990s to investigate the so-called Tunguska event, in which a meteor is believed to have struck a Siberian forest in 1908. He has volunteered on archaeological projects in Belize and Guatemala to study the collapse of the Maya civilization. And he visited Ethiopia on a quest to find out what happened to the Ark of the Covenant.
58岁的吉布森说，旅行是他一生追求的一部分，他希望周游列国并沿途探索奥秘。他在1990年代初前往俄罗斯，调查所谓的通古斯大爆炸，在那次事件中，人们认为一颗流星在1908年击中了西伯利亚的一片森林。他志愿加入了伯利兹和危地马拉的考古项目，来研究玛雅文明的崩溃。他还去到埃塞俄比亚，探究约柜发生了什么。
“I was going to some monasteries and at the same time traveling in an interesting and beautiful country,” he said of his Ethiopia trip. “I love to travel, but I like to have some sort of reason. Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 is another one of those.”
“我当时准备前往一些修道院，同时又在一个有趣而美丽的国家旅行，”他如此形容自己的埃塞俄比亚之行。“我喜爱旅行，更希望为某些目而旅行。马来西亚航空公司的370航班，就是其中的一个。”
He joined a Facebook discussion group on the missing flight, which spurred his interest in researching its fate. He went to East Africa in February, after an Australian oceanographer told him that debris from the aircraft could eventually wash ashore in Mauritius, Madagascar and Mozambique. Mozambique became the 177th country he has visited, he said. After touring Maputo, the capital, he went to the beach town of Vilankulo, where he hired a boat to take him any place where debris from the open ocean washed ashore.
他加入了一个关于这架失踪飞机的Facebook讨论小组，这激发了他探究这架航班命运的兴趣。一位澳大利亚海洋学家告诉他，飞机碎片最终可能被冲上毛里求斯、马达加斯加和莫桑比克的海岸，于是他在2月前往东非。莫桑比克成了他到过的第177个国家，他说。在参观完首都马普托之后，他去了维兰库洛这个海滩小镇，在那里他租了一条小船，带他前往任何一个碎片可能被冲上岸的地方。
On the morning of Feb. 27, he sailed with Suleman Valy, who is known as Junior and runs a local beach hotel and guide service, and a boat captain to a sandbar called Paluma.
在2月27日的早晨，他和人称Junior的苏雷曼·瓦利(Suleman Valy)一起出海到一个称为帕鲁玛(Paluma)的沙洲。瓦利经营着一家当地的海滨酒店并提供导游服务，同时也是一名船长。
“We landed on an island with, like, no vegetation and walked around, up and down,” Mr. Gibson said. “Most of the stuff there was just regular beach junk that I always see — plastic bottles, sandals, cigarette lighters. Suddenly Junior calls out.”
“我们在一个岛屿上登陆，那里没有植被，我们四处走l了走，”吉布森说。“大部分的东西都仅仅是通常看到的普通的海滩垃圾——塑料瓶、凉鞋、打火机。突然Junior大声叫了起来。”
The piece they discovered, about a meter long, is fiberglass composite with honeycombed aluminum inside. The words “No Step” are written on one side. Investigators told NBC News, which first reported the discovery, that it could be from the horizontal stabilizer on the tail of the plane.
他们发现的这块残骸约一米长，是玻璃钢复合材料，内部是蜂窝状的铝。一侧写着“禁止踩踏”(No Step)。调查人员告诉NBC新闻(NBC News)，它可能是飞机的水平尾翼。这次发现是NBC最先报道的。
Mr. Gibson returned to Maputo and handed over the object to the authorities there. Officials in Australia, which has been coordinating the Indian Ocean search, said it would be sent there for testing.
吉布森返回马普托，并把此物交给了当局。协调印度洋搜索的澳大利亚官员说，它将被送往澳大利亚进行检验。
Liow Tiong Lai, the Malaysian minister of transport, wrote on Twitter that based on early reports, there was a “high possibility” that the debris belonged to a Boeing 777, but he cautioned it had yet to be verified. Darren Chester, the Australian minister for infrastructure and transport, said in a statement that the location of the discovery “is consistent with drift modeling commissioned by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau and reaffirms the search area” in the Indian Ocean.
马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)在Twitter上写道，根据初步报告，有“很高的可能性”碎片属于一架波音777，但他谨慎提醒说情况还未被证实。澳大利亚基础设施和交通部长达伦·切斯特(Darren Chester)在一份声明中说，此次发现的地点与“澳大利亚交通安全局委托开展的漂移建模一致，并且再次确认了印度洋中的搜索区域”。
Australia has been leading a search of about 46,000 square miles in the southern Indian Ocean, where transmissions between Flight 370 and a satellite indicate the plane crashed into the water, after veering off its initial course and flying south for hours. The search is expected to be finished by the middle of this year; if no more data is uncovered to suggest a new search area, the effort will be called off, officials have said. It has cost more than $100 million, with contributions from Australia, Malaysia and China. (Most of the passengers on the flight were Chinese.)
在南印度洋4.6万平方英里的水域上开展的搜寻行动，是由澳大利亚牵头的。MH370航班和卫星之间的信号传送显示，在飞机偏离其最初航线，并向南飞行数个小时后在那里坠入水中。搜索预计将在今年年中完成；官员称，如果没有发现更多数据来提出一个新的搜索区域，这一工作将被叫停。搜索已经花费了超过1亿美元，资金来自澳大利亚、马来西亚和中国。（航班上的大多数乘客是中国人。）
Like the officials, Mr. Gibson expressed caution about concluding that the object he found is from Flight 370. The sooner “it gets to Australia and they determine it’s one thing or another, the better,” he said.
与这些官员一样，吉布森对于他发现的物体来自MH370航班的结论，也持谨慎态度。“越早送到澳大利亚，他们越早确定这是什么不是什么，就越好，”他说。
As for his personal quest to discover what happened to the plane, he is still far from drawing a conclusion.
而他本人追寻飞机失事真相的旅途，还远远没有终结。