Should Apple Watch, the latest smartwatch to hit the streets, be as much a part of your travels as your passport and toothbrush?
苹果手表——这款最新面世的智能手表，是否在你的旅途中占到像护照和牙刷同样的份量呢？
The Internet is awash in reviews for technophiles but not travelers. And so I donned a stainless steel model and roamed Manhattan, testing apps and visiting hotels, landmarks and restaurants to glean how useful the watch may be for frequent fliers and road warriors. (I’ll be writing about other smartwatches in the coming weeks.)
互联网上大量充斥的评测报告，都是面向科技爱好者，而非旅行者的。因此我戴上了一只不锈钢表带款的苹果手表，在曼哈顿城里闲逛，测试应用，前往酒店、地标建筑和餐馆，以便收集各类信息，确定这只手表对飞行常客和公路勇士们能有用到什么程度。（我会在今后的几周里继续撰写其他智能手表的使用心得）
Often, I was charmed. When I raised my wrist and said sotto voce into the watch, “Hey Siri, is there a public bathroom nearby?” up popped a polite note: “I don’t see any public toilets. Sorry about that.” When I ordered an Egg McMuffin at a McDonald’s, I never reached for my wallet. Rather, I paid instantly by double-clicking the side button on Apple Watch (bringing up an image of my credit card), then holding it to a reader by the cash register. Glad I wasn’t in Barneys.
很多时候，我都被它惊艳。当我抬起手腕，低声对这只手表说：“嗨，Siri，这附近有公共厕所吗？”表盘上便会弹出一条礼貌的消息：“我没有找到任何公共厕所。十分抱歉。”我在麦当劳点了一只麦满分，全程完全没碰过我的钱包。我只是双击了苹果手表上的侧边按钮（调出了我一张信用卡的图片），然后将它拿到了收银台的读卡器处，就即刻完成了支付。幸好我不是在巴尼百货(Barneys，高档百货店——编著)。
Occasionally, I was baffled. Like when I was trying to use the Uber app, which was seemingly frozen — until it wasn’t. Suddenly it was ordering me car after car in what seemed like a digital-age version of the “I Love Lucy” candy factory episode. (Frantically tapping the watch face, I was ultimately able to cancel the vehicles.)
有的时候，我也被折腾得够呛。像我试图使用优步(Uber)的客户端时，它看上去就跟死机了一样――直到它“活”了过来。突然间，它开始为我一辆又一辆地叫车，就像情景喜剧《我爱露茜》(I Love Lucy)里女主角在糖果厂工作那集的数码时代版一样。（我在表盘上疯狂地点了半天，才终于把所有的车都取消了）
Like its competitors, Apple Watch ($349 for a silver aluminum Watch Sport model to $17,000 for an 18-karat yellow or rose gold Watch Edition model) mitigates a modern travel anxiety: fear of setting down your smartphone — in a cab, on a cafe table, in an airplane seat pocket — and kissing it goodbye. Your iPhone can remain in your bag or pocket while your Apple Watch hugs your wrist, subtly zapping it when a text message arrives, or flashing an alert when you pay for museum admission with your credit card (handy for budget trackers). It’s one less thing to hold (and drop) when you’re laden with luggage and trying to unearth a hotel confirmation number, or message the person picking you up at the airport.
与自己的竞争对手一样，苹果手表（银色铝制运动款售价349美元；18K金或玫瑰金表款售价17,000美元）也能缓解现代的一种旅途焦虑：害怕放下手机――无论是在出租车里、咖啡桌上还是飞机航班的座椅口袋里――从此与它告别。只要你手腕上带着苹果手表，你的iPhone就可以一直收在你的包里或口袋里，在收到短信时巧妙地消掉它，或者在用信用卡购买博物馆门票时弹出消费提醒（非常方便追踪消费记录）。它能让你在带着一大堆行李的同时又要试着找出酒店预订确认号码，或者通知在机场接你的人时，少一件需要拿在手里的东西。
Setting up the watch, which you can order online for shipping in June, is easy if you’re familiar with Apple products. It took me about six minutes to get it going, and even less time to load a dozen or so travel-related apps — including TripAdvisor, American Airlines, Expedia, Hotel Tonight, TripIt and OpenTable — onto my iPhone, which I paired with the watch using Bluetooth technology. For the uninitiated: You use your iPhone to add and set up the watch’s apps, including Apple Pay (the contactless payment technology).
你可以在网上订购这款手表，6月便会发货。只要你很熟悉苹果的产品，这只手表设置起来并不是什么难事。我用了大约6分钟便让它成功开机运行，并且只用了更短的时间便在我通过蓝牙技术与手表配对的iPhone上加载好了十来款旅行相关应用――包括到到网(TripAdvisor)、美国航空(American Airlines)、艾派迪(Expedia)、今晚酒店预订(Hotel Tonight)、行程管理(TripIt)还有订餐应用OpenTable。给新手们的建议：不妨用你的iPhone来添加和设置手表上的应用，包括采用免触支付技术的苹果支付(Apple Pay)。
In general, your iPhone (which must be an iPhone 5 or higher) has to be within about 30 feet of your watch for it to be fully functional. Also, to complete certain tasks (mainly to answer the kinds of questions for which you would search the Internet), you must transfer them to the iPhone, a process known as a “handoff.” For example, when I asked Siri when the Museum of Modern Art opened, she found the answer, but for me to see it there had to be a handoff. So I pulled out my iPhone where, by swiping on an icon on the home screen, I could read the museum’s hours.
一般来说，你的手表与你的iPhone（必须是iPhone 5或者更高版本）之间的距离不得超过30英尺，才能充分发挥功用。此外，要完成某些特定任务（主要是回答一些你可能需要在网上搜索答案的问题），你必须将这些任务转到iPhone上操作，这一过程叫作“切换”(handoff)。举个例子，当我询问Siri现代艺术博物馆(Museum of Modern Art)都在什么时间开放时，她会找出答案，但我要看到结果的话，就得进行切换操作。于是我拿出自己的iPhone，扫了一下主屏幕上的一个图标，便可在上面看到这间博物馆的营业时间。
Not ideal, as technology writers have noted. But that aside, you can use the watch to perform all sorts of tasks without ever reaching for your iPhone; you can dictate text messages, answer phone calls, see emails and calendar alerts, pay for dinner, possibly open your hotel room door. If you’re already an Apple customer, it’s fairly intuitive. I figured out how to use many of the watch’s travel features without the online instructions. (The main thing to learn, which I did look up, is that some actions require the same gesture you would use with any touch screen, while others require pressing down on the watch face.)
就像科技作者们所指出的，它的表现并不完美。但是除去这一点，你无需拿出iPhone，便可使用手表完成各式各样的任务；你可以用语音输入编写短信、接听电话、查看电子邮件与日历提醒、支付餐费，说不定还能打开你的酒店房门。如果你本来就是苹果的老用户，这一切的操作都仅凭直觉便可完成。我完全没看网上攻略，就搞清楚了这只手表旅行相关功能的具体用法。（我没有查看任何资料，便明白了需要了解的主要事项，那就是有的动作需要用到的手势与你使用任何触摸屏设备时毫无两样，其他动作则需要你按压表盘）
Among Apple Watch’s most useful tools for travelers is Siri, the virtual assistant that can feel extraneous on iPhones. It’s startlingly accurate when it comes to taking dictation (much more so than on my iPhone) and feels like a natural feature for a device that lives on your wrist. “Hey, Siri,” I said, raising an arm to my face. In return I received a vibration: Siri was ready to take orders. “I want to write a text,” I continued. A message appeared: “Who would you like to text?” So begins a swift way for anyone rushing to, say, an airport shuttle, to send an “I’ve landed; be there by 9” text without having to fish out a phone, open the messages app and type (Apple Watch is all about talking, not typing).
苹果手表最有用的旅行工具之一就是Siri，虽然这位虚拟助手在iPhone上的存在价值或许若有若无。在你使用语音输入时，它表现出了惊人的准确度（远远胜过我在iPhone上使用时的表现），感觉就像是一部腕戴设备天生就该有的功能一样。“嗨，Siri，”我抬起手臂，靠近脸侧说道。手表会传出一阵震动作为回应，表示Siri已经做好了听取命令的准备。“我想编写一条短信，”我接着说。一条信息弹了出来：“您想给谁发送短信？”如此一来，任何一位赶着搭乘（比如说）机场大巴的人，都可以便捷地发送一条“我落地了，9点就到”的短信，而无需掏出手机、打开短信应用然后打字输入（苹果手表所用的输入方式只是语音，不用打字）。
Siri was particularly inspiring one midnight, when I asked her to find pizza joints near Times Square. She pulled up a list faster than I could say “garlic knots.” After I selected Ray’s Pizza (not an endorsement but a matter of geographical convenience), she produced a map. You can use Apple Watch’s digital crown (the knob on the side) to zoom in and out along your route, though reading a 1-inch-by-1-inch screen while walking is not easy.
有一天夜里，Siri的表现格外令人心潮澎湃，当时我在让她在时代广场(Times Square)附近找一家比萨店。还不等我说出“蒜蓉面包卷”这几个字，她就已经迅速地列出了一张披萨店的名单。在我选择了雷氏比萨(Ray’s Pizza)后（纯属地理位置方便，倒不是我有多推荐这家），她生成了一张地图。你可以用苹果手表的数字表冠（侧边按钮）沿路缩放地图详情，虽然在走路的同时查看一款1英寸见方的屏幕是不太方便。
Travel apps that help you discover local restaurants and activities, like AroundMe and Yelp, worked smoothly, though Siri was more effective at uncovering what I wanted. Not that she’s perfect. Now and then she ignored me. “Hey, Siri,” I would begin, very solicitous. No response. “Hey, Siri,” I would say again, this time slightly more crisp. Still nothing. “Hey. Siri,” I eventually hissed. She was most giving when I spoke in a slow, sultry tone. But I’ve since learned that you don’t have to cajole Siri into action. Simply press and hold the digital crown for the “What can I help you with?” message. Then speak your request.
那些能帮你发现本地餐馆及活动的旅行应用，例如AroundMe和Yelp，均可流畅运行，虽然在发现我所需信息的方面上，Siri的效果要更好一些。倒不是说她就尽善尽美。时不时地，她也会无视我。“嗨，Siri，”我满怀热情地招呼道。没有反应。“嗨，Siri，”我又说了一遍，将音调稍稍提高了一些。还是没反应。“嗨！Siri，”我最后忍不住吼了起来。她在我使用一种缓慢而又低沉的音调说话时，回应的几率是最高的。但是我后来发现，你根本不需要用言语召唤Siri启动。只要长按数字表冠，等待“我能为你做些什么？”的消息出现。然后就可以说出你的请求了。
Other popular travel apps such as TripIt, TripAdvisor and OpenTable also worked, though the Apple Watch versions are far more basic given the smaller screen. OpenTable, for example, merely displays your next restaurant reservation. You can’t book a new one or see other reservations down the road (not very helpful). The Uber app is similarly no frills. You can’t select whether you want an SUV or black car, for instance, the way you can on the smartphone version of the app. But, hey, you can request a car (or five), which is all you need on a rainy or late night.
其他的一些常用旅行应用，例如行程管理、到到网和OpenTable，也能正常使用，只是因为屏幕缩小了，所以它们的苹果手表版本在功能上要简陋得多。拿OpenTable来说，它只能显示你下一次的餐馆预订信息。你既没法完成新的预订，也看不到接下来这一路上的其他预订情况（虽然不是很有用）。优步应用也同样一切从简。比如说，你无法选择想叫SUV还是豪华轿车，而你在智能手机上就可以。不过，嘿，你还是可以用它来叫到一辆车（或者五辆）的，这在雨天或是深夜的时候已经足够了。
I had less success with Starwood’s SPG app, which allows members of its loyalty program to check in and unlock their door at certain hotels using a mobile device. I was registered and cleared for keyless check-in at the W New York Times Square, only to be thwarted on arrival. The reservationist at the welcome desk couldn’t have been nicer as he tried to divine why the app said, “Your mobile key has been temporarily deactivated.” He theorized that there might be a problem with the hotel’s server. Whatever the cause, it wasn’t an Apple Watch hitch — the SPG app didn’t allow me to go keyless on my iPhone either. Instead I was given a plastic key card that on the front promised, in my case ironically: “My days as a key are numbered.”
我在使用喜达屋(Starwood)的应用SPG时，就没有那么好运了。这款应用可让参与了这家酒店忠诚顾客计划的会员，在特定酒店使用移动设备登记入住和打开房门。我登记并申请了纽约西时代广场店的无门卡入住，却在抵达时遇到了麻烦。酒店前台的预订人员，在努力为我解释应用上为何会显示“您的手机门卡已经临时失效”时，态度简直好到不行。他推测，这可能是酒店服务器出了什么问题。不管原因到底为何，一定不是苹果手表出了故障――我iPhone上的SPG应用也不允许我使用无门卡入住。最后前台给我办了一张塑料门卡，就我此次的用意而言倒是挺讽刺的：“我的通行之日已然屈指可数。”
The Apple Watch is fun, and frequent travelers who take time to familiarize themselves with it can streamline some of their routine behaviors on the road. Is it essential? No. Do I want one? Yes. Because I like being able to read email, text, pay for things, and find nearby garlic knots from my wrist rather than having my smartphone in hand at all times.
苹果手表很有意思，旅行常客们花些时间熟悉它的操作，能够简化他们旅途上的部分常规动作。它不可或缺吗？不是。我想要来一只吗？是的。因为比起随时将我的智能手机攥在手里，我更喜欢只要抬起我的手腕，就能阅读电子邮件，发送短信，完成支付，找到附近的蒜蓉面包卷。
But I’ll probably wait for the next version (the watch I’m sporting is a loaner). That’s because there was one major letdown for this traveler: the Maps app, which offers both walking and driving directions. Since I was in Manhattan, I tried only walking directions. Sometimes the app couldn’t find an address. Other times I was told, “directions not available.” On several walks there were no vibrations, sounds or comprehensible shorthand directions between the starting point and my destination.
但是我很可能会等到下一个版本上市时再考虑（我现在用来显摆的这只是我借来的）。这是因为它对我这位旅行者而言存在着一个很重大的缺陷：提供步行导航和驾车导航的地图应用。因为我是在曼哈顿测试的，就只试了试步行导航而已。有的时候，这款应用会找不到某个地址。还有的时候，它会告诉我“导航无法使用”。有几次的步行途中，它没有发出任何震动与声音回馈，也没有在我的起点与目的地之间给出显而易见的捷径导航
“Hey, Siri, I’m lost,” I said into Apple Watch one breezy spring afternoon.
“嘿，Siri，我迷路了，”我在一个微风徐徐的春日下午对苹果手表说道。
She replied, as is her way, with a note: “You’re on 10 W 83rd Street.”
她以她惯用的方式，用一条信息回复我道：“您现在在83街西10号。”
Close. But not quite. I tried again.
结束。但也不完全是。我又试了一次。
“You’re on 115 W 86th Street,” she wrote.
“您现在在86街西115号。”
Nope. I asked once more.
不对。我再问了一次。
“You’re on 147 W 87th Street.”
“您现在在87街西147号。”
I wasn’t. “Hey, Siri,” I said. “You keep giving me the wrong location.”
我并不在那里。“嘿，Siri，”我说道，“你一直在告诉我错误的方位。”
She responded in her usual polite manner.
她以她惯常的客气语气回应道：
“You’re certainly entitled to that opinion, Stephanie.”
“你当然有权持有这种观点，斯蒂芬妮。”