LOS ANGELES — It has been 20 years since Southern California experienced a major earthquake, a powerful 6.7-magnitude temblor that rolled through Northridge, killing 57 people. But this stretch of seismic calm, though welcome in obvious ways, has undermined efforts to force Los Angeles to deal with what officials describe as potentially lethal deficiencies in earthquake preparation.
洛杉矶——20年前，南加州北岭地区发生了6.7级的大地震，导致57人丧生，之后南加州一直没有出现严重震灾，虽然从很多方面来说，这种平静期显然是件好事，但是对于官员们形容为“防震工作中的潜在致命不足”而言，它却削弱了迫使洛杉矶进行改善的努力。
That may be changing. Since two back-to-back earthquakes Friday evening — a relatively small one with a magnitude of 3.6, followed by a long and rolling 5.1 quake — Los Angeles has been shaken by nearly 175 smaller aftershocks. It is the first time this area has suffered an earthquake in excess of 5 magnitude since 1997, and it comes two weeks after a 4.4 earthquake jolted residents awake.
这种情况可能正在改变。洛杉矶上周五晚连续发生了两次地震，一开始是比较小的3.6级地震，之后是持续时间较长、有起伏感的5.1级地震，自那之后，已经出现了将近175次比较轻微的余震。这是该地区自1997年以来第一次发生5级以上地震。这里两周之前曾发生过一次4.4级地震，把当地居民从睡梦中晃醒。
None of these quakes caused injuries or widespread damage, other than broken water pipes and some homes that have been declared at least temporarily uninhabitable. But geologists see them as the predictable end of a cycle: a return to what might be an uncomfortable normal in which 5-magnitude earthquakes become routine events.
这些地震没有导致人身伤亡，而且除了水管破裂、一些住宅至少暂时无法居住之外，也没有造成广泛的财产损失。但地质学家认为，这是一个周期的结束，该地区可能会回归到一种令人不安的常态，即5级地震经常发生的状况，这个周期的结束是可预见的。
“The last 17 years has been the quietest time we have ever seen,” said Lucile M. Jones, a seismologist at the United States Geological Survey. “Maybe we’re starting to turn back to more normal levels.”
“过去17年是我们见过最平静的时期。”美国地质调查局(United States Geological Survey)地震学家露西尔·M.琼斯(Lucile M. Jones)说。“可能我们会逐渐回归到更加常见的水平。”
The burst of seismic activity has come at a critical time for this part of the country, as Los Angeles confronts growing criticism that it has lagged in taking steps to minimize earthquake casualties. Its new mayor, Eric M. Garcetti, has seized on this as a defining issue. He appointed Ms. Jones as a special adviser to draw up an earthquake preparedness plan, following the lead of San Francisco and other cities.
对于该地区而言，这场地震是在一个关键时刻突然爆发的：洛杉矶正面临着越来越多的批评，因为它在采取措施、尽量减少地震伤亡方面落在了后面。洛杉矶新任市长埃里克·M·加希提(Eric M. Garcetti)抓住这个机会，把这个问题作为定义他任期的一件事来处理。他沿用旧金山等城市的做法，任命琼斯为特别顾问，负责制定地震预案。
Mr. Garcetti and Ms. Jones said the biggest obstacle in pushing Los Angeles to take crucial steps — most importantly, reinforcing hundreds of old concrete buildings at risk of collapse — had been the lack of a sense of urgency resulting from the long period of seismic dormancy. “When earthquakes happen that are big enough to feel but small enough not to cause great damage, they help us provide the awareness we need in Southern California,” Mr. Garcetti said in an interview on Sunday. “It’s what everybody is talking about. The place is abuzz about earthquakes. I’m going to take that and use that for our efforts.”
加希提和琼斯说，之前，推动洛杉矶采取关键措施——最重要的是，数以百计的老旧混凝土建筑物有倒塌危险，需要进行加固——的最大障碍是缺乏紧迫感，这是长时间的地震休眠期导致的​。“足够大的地震发生了，大到有震感，但又没有造成巨大的破坏，这有助于我们提升南加州需要的地震意识。”加希提在周日接受采访时说。“大家现在都在谈论这件事。这个地方充满了对地震的种种议论。我会借助这来推进我们的工作。”
Vito Teti, 73, a part-time security guard who lives in Fullerton, said that when he returned from work on Friday, his home looked like a war zone, with toppled furniture, broken lamps and pictures that had fallen from walls.
73岁的兼职治安员维托·特提(Vito Teti)住在富勒顿，他说自己上周五下班回家后，家里看起来就像打过仗一样：家具东倒西歪，灯具破了，挂在墙上的画也掉了下来。
“If you’re a native of California, the problem is you get too complacent,” Mr. Teti said. “You hear about earthquakes in the news, but it’s always someplace else.”
“如果你是土生土长的加州人，不会居安思危就是问题所在。”特提说。“你在新闻中看到发生地震了，但都是发生在别的地方。”
Mr. Garcetti said he was preparing a plan to deal with what Ms. Jones, a familiar figure in California known as the Earthquake Lady, identified as the three most serious shortcomings in the city’s earthquake preparation. The first challenge is to fix unreinforced buildings that could collapse in a big quake, an issue that promises to stir debates about acceptable risk and who should pay for that very expensive endeavor.
加希提说，他正在准备一个预案，用来应对琼斯指出的该市三个最薄弱的抗震环节。加州人很熟悉琼斯，称她为“地震女士”(Earthquake Lady)。第一个挑战是修复没有加固的建筑物，它们可能在大地震中倒塌，此事定会激起人们对“可接受的风险”的辩论，以及该由谁出钱开展这种非常昂贵的修复工作的辩论。
The other two are to plan for catastrophic collapses in water supply and basic communication, as many of the aqueducts and Internet cables that supply Los Angeles cross the San Andreas Fault.
另外两个挑战是应对供水设施和基本通信设施的灾难性崩溃，因为洛杉矶的引水渠和互联网电缆很多都经过圣安地列斯断层(San Andreas Fault)。
Mr. Garcetti’s decision to bring Ms. Jones to City Hall on a yearlong appointment, with weekly meetings devoted to earthquake presentation, came amid repeated reminders of the region’s vulnerability. About three months ago, an ambitious program to rebuild large parts of Hollywood, including the construction of tall buildings, was suspended after state geologists found that a major fault runs through the heart of the redevelopment area.
加希提决定让琼斯在市政厅工作一年，并且每周都召开专门的地震通报例会，是在一些事情再三提醒人们该地区易遭震灾破坏之际发生的。大约三个月前，重建好莱坞大部分地区、包括修建一些高层建筑在内的庞大计划被推迟了，因为加州的地质学家发现一个重大断层通过重建区的心脏地带。
The reaction to the recent quakes — a combination of mordant humor, sang-froid and get-me-out-of-here alarm — has been intensified by social media and the Internet, which barely existed when the Northridge quake hit in 1994.
人们对于近期地震的反应——包括尖刻的幽默，沉着从容，警惕地寻求对策——已经在社交媒体和互联网上愈演愈烈。1994年北岭地震发生时，几乎还没有互联网。
The earthquakes began in Orange County, about 30 miles from Los Angeles. The shaking was felt across much of the Los Angeles basin. In contrast to the quake two weeks ago, which arrived with a large jolt, this one produced prolonged rolling.
这场地震开始于距离洛杉矶约30英里（约48公里）的奥兰治县。整个洛杉矶盆地很多地方都有震感。两个星期前的那次地震带来了强烈的震动感，而这场地震伴有长时间的起伏感。
Ms. Jones said she suspected that the absence of severe geological activity since the Northridge earthquake, and the 7.3-magnitude Landers quake that took place in the remote Mojave Desert two years earlier, accounted for the lull.
琼斯说，她觉得北岭地震之后没有剧烈的地质活动，以及两年前发生在偏远的莫哈韦沙漠的7.3级兰德斯地震，是这个地区经历了一段平静期的原因。