KABUL, Afghanistan — Even in his mother’s womb, Donald Trump was unusually sensitive. On nights when his mother was distressed, he would become restless, turning and kicking.
阿富汗喀布尔——还在母亲的子宫里时，唐纳德·特朗普就异常敏感。在他母亲感到痛苦的夜晚，他会变得焦躁不安，不断翻身和踢腿。
Then, on a rainy autumn afternoon in a dusty village of about 200 adobe homes, it was time for his birth. There were no nurses or midwives, so a neighbor’s wife came to help. The newborn was calm. He had blonde hair, and perfectly normal feet and hands.
后来，一个下雨的秋日午后，在一座尘土飞扬、大约有200栋土坯房的村子里，他要出生了。那里没有护士或助产士，于是邻居的妻子来帮忙。新生儿很平静。他有一头金色的头发，完全正常的双手和双脚。
This is not Donald J. Trump, the son of Mary and Fred Trump. This is Donald Trump, the third child of Jamila and Sayed Assadullah, who was born in Shahristan District deep in the central Afghan province of Daikundi on Sept. 3, 2016, around the time his American namesake was preparing for his first presidential debate after winning the Republican nomination.
这不是玛丽和弗雷德·特朗普夫妇(Mary and Fred Trump)的儿子唐纳德·J·特朗普。他是贾米拉和赛义德·阿萨杜拉夫妇(Jamila and Sayed Assadullah)的第三个孩子唐纳德·特朗普。2016年9月3日，他出生在阿富汗中部戴孔迪省沙赫里斯坦区。在当时，美国那个和他同名的人正在为赢得共和党提名后的首场总统辩论做准备。
The baby Donald Trump got his name because of his father’s admiration for the tycoon Donald Trump.
给孩子取名唐纳德·特朗普是出于父亲对大亨唐纳德·特朗普的钦佩之情。
Mr. Assadullah comes from a poor farming family, in a place where a good almond crop often made the difference between starving or not. But he earned a college degree, and had read Mr. Trump’s books, and watched him on television, which the family powered through solar panels provided in the village by an aid organization.
阿萨杜拉出生在一个贫穷的农民家庭。在他的家乡，扁桃收成好坏常常决定了人们挨不挨饿。但他拿到了一个大学学位，看过特朗普的书，还在电视上看到过他。他家电视用的电，来自一个援助组织为该村提供的太阳能电池板。
He hoped that naming his son after a famous real estate developer and television star would, somehow, rub off on the child’s fortunes.
阿萨杜拉希望，用一个著名的房地产开发商和电视明星的名字作为儿子的称呼，会以某种方式改变孩子的命运。
But the hoped-for good luck has yet to appear. If anything, the naming choice has only added to the family’s misfortune.
但希望中的好运还没有降临。如果说有什么不同的话，那就是选择这个名字加剧了家庭的不幸。
The decision to give the child a non-Muslim name angered Mr. Assadullah’s relatives so much that the family no longer felt welcome in their village in Daikundi, and moved to a rental home in Kabul.
给孩子起一个非穆斯林名字的决定激怒了阿萨杜拉的亲戚，以至他们一家觉得在村里不再受欢迎。于是，他们搬进了喀布尔一处租来的房屋里。
“I was reading Trump’s books,” Mr. Assadullah said in an interview in Kabul, as the young Donald Trump sat in his lap, his little fingers clinging to his father’s phone. “I read his book ‘How to Get Rich.’ Then I read about his background: about how he built the Trump Tower, how he became the leader of the party. I understood that he is a hardworking man. I thought if I name my son Donald Trump, then it will affect my son’s personality, his behavior.”
“我当时在看特朗普的书，”阿萨杜拉在喀布尔接受采访时说，年幼的唐纳德·特朗普坐在他的腿上，细小手指抓着父亲的手机。“我看了他那本《如何致富》(How to Get Rich)。然后我又看了他的经历：他如何建起特朗普大厦，如何成为政党领袖。我知道他是个努力工作的人。我想如果我给儿子起名唐纳德·特朗普，这以后会影响他的性格和行为。”
Mr. Assadullah said the immediate physical resemblance only helped in his conviction.
阿萨杜拉表示，外表的直接相似更是坚定了他的想法。
“When my son was born, his hair was completely blonde, and it matched Trump’s hair,” he said. “So when I saw his hair, I thought, ‘I will name him Trump.’ ”
“我儿子出生的时候，头发完全是金色的，和特朗普的头发一样，”他说。“所以当我看到他的头发时，我就想，‘我要给他起名特朗普。’”
For 10 days after the baby was born, he did not have any name. Traditionally, the grandparents get a first say on the name, and the newborn’s parents play along. Mr. Assadullah wanted to break with tradition, but his break was such a leap that he could not bring himself to tell the family. At least Jamila, his wife, agreed with him.
孩子出生的前10天，他还没有名字。按照传统，应该是祖父母对孩子的名字有优先发言权，新生儿的父母要听从建议。阿萨杜拉想要打破这个传统，但他的突破是如此之大，以至于他都不敢告诉家人。不过他至少还有妻子贾米拉的同意。
When Mr. Assadullah’s decision became public, his family first ridiculed him. Then the ridicule turned into anger.
当阿萨杜拉的决定公开之后，他的家人第一个嘲笑了他。接着，嘲笑变成了愤怒。
“When I named my son Donald Trump, they were not happy,” Mr. Assadullah said. “They told me, ‘How you can select the name of an infidel for your son?’ ”
“当我给儿子起名唐纳德·特朗普，他们都不开心，”阿萨杜拉说。“他们告诉我，‘你怎么可以给儿子取一个异教徒的名字？’”
“So the relations with my family were not good after that,” he continued. “My father is an angry man. He told me that he could not tolerate the fact that I call my son Donald Trump. So I left and moved my family to Kabul.”
“所以在那以后，我和家人的关系就不好了，”他接着说。“我父亲是个易怒的人。他告诉我，他无法容忍我把儿子叫做唐纳德·特朗普。于是我离开了，我们一家人搬到了喀布尔。”
The story of young Donald Trump, who is a year and a half old now, had largely remained private even after the family’s move to Kabul. But recently, a copy of the boy’s national ID started circulating on social media. Mr. Assadullah said it was put out by employees of the population registration department without his permission.
年幼的唐纳德·特朗普现在一岁半了，即使一家人搬到了喀布尔，他的故事也很少被外人知道。但最近，男孩的身份证副本开始在社交媒体上流传。阿萨杜拉表示，这是人口登记部门的员工在未经他允许的情况下发布上网的。
At the government office in Kabul responsible for verifying IDs from other provinces, Mr. Assadullah said he was treated with disrespect. He was even threatened with being sent to the Afghan intelligence agency for questioning, all for naming his son Donald Trump.
阿萨杜拉表示，自己在负责核验来自其他省的身份证件的喀布尔政府办公室里，没有得到尊重对待。他甚至受到威胁，说将被送往阿富汗情报机构接受质询，一切都是因为他给儿子起名唐纳德·特朗普。
“When I went there, the employees of the department saw the name and they asked me, ‘What is this? Donald Trump?’ I said yes, is there any problem?” Mr. Assadullah said. “They looked at me funny, and they were saying, ‘look, he named his son Donald Trump — what culture-less people.’ I told them their job is only to confirm the ID card.”
“我去了那个部门，那里的工作人员看到这个名字后，问我：‘这是什么啊？唐纳德·特朗普？’我说是啊，有什么问题吗？”阿萨杜拉说。“他们像看笑话一样看着我，说，‘瞧，他给儿子取名叫唐纳德·特朗普——真是没文化。’我对他们说，他们的工作只是确认身份证。”
Critics say Mr. Assadullah named his son for the president to draw attention to himself and seek asylum abroad. But he rejected that idea, saying he never wanted his child’s identity to be so public.
批评者称，阿萨杜拉以美国总统的名字给自己的孩子命名，是为了引起人们对他的关注，寻求外国的庇护。但他否认了这个想法，说他从来不想让孩子的身份如此公开。
Since news of young Donald Trump’s name spread, another family has come forward with a similar tale. Ghulam Ali Paiman, also from Shahristan in Daikundi, says he had twins nearly two years ago and named one child Vladimir Putin and the second Barack Hussein Obama. But there was a disagreement: His wife had wanted to name the second child Trump.
自从年幼的唐纳德·特朗普的名字传开后，另一个家庭也出现了类似的故事。同样来自戴孔迪省沙赫里斯坦地区的古拉姆·阿里·帕伊曼(Ghulam Ali Paiman)说，他在将近两年前有了一对双胞胎，他给一个孩子取名为弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)，给另一个取名为贝拉克·侯赛因·奥巴马(Barack Hussein Obama)。不过，他的妻子有不同意见，想给第二个孩子取名为特朗普。
His story, however, was hard to verify.
不过，他的故事很难证实。
Mr. Paiman sent The New York Times copies of what he said were hospital birth certificates, but they were issued this week, nearly two years after the birth of the twins. The hospital director confirmed issuing the recent birth certificates, but said he couldn’t find children with those names born two years ago.
帕伊曼给《纽约时报》寄来了他所说的医院出生证明的复印件，但它们是本周签发的，也就是在这对双胞胎出生近两年后。医院主管证实前不久签发了那两份出生证明，但表示，两年前没有哪对双胞胎出生时叫这两个名字。
Traditionally, most families name their children on the sixth day — long after they have left the hospital, if they were delivered in a hospital at all.
传统上，大多数家庭在孩子出生后的第六天给他们起名，那时候他们早已离开医院了——如果是在医院出生的话。
Independent verification of Mr. Paiman’s story could not be found.
帕伊曼的说法无法得到独立验证。
“It is the first time I am hearing these twins named Trump and Putin,” said Shafaq Yaqoobi, the district governor of Shahristan. “I know the father. I have never heard from him or anyone else that he named his twins Trump and Putin.”
“这是我第一次听说这对双胞胎叫特朗普和普京，”沙里斯坦的区长沙法克·雅各比(Shafaq Yaqoobi)说。“我认识他们的父亲。我从未听他或其他人说，他给自己的双胞胎儿子取名叫特朗普和普京。”
“But I have heard about Donald Trump,” he added, “whose father is Sayed Assadullah.”
“但我听说过唐纳德·特朗普，”他补充说，“他的父亲是赛义德·阿萨杜拉。”