We foolish women, with our bustiers, bustles and brassieres! Though now mostly confined to history, they have long perverted the female form.
穿紧身胸衣、裙撑和文胸，我们这些蠢女人！尽管如今这些东西大多已经成为历史，但是长久以来它们一直误导着女性。
But what about the peacock male, with his desperate attempts to increase his attractions? Read: codpieces, metallic contraptions, so-called virile briefs and “Wonderjock” underpants to compete with the female Wonderbra?
但那些花枝招展的男人们呢？他们是怎样拼命增进自己魅力的？请看：遮阴布、各种金属小饰物、所谓有男子气概的内裤，以及和女人的“神奇文胸”相媲美的“神奇内裤”。
The biggest surprise in an unprecedented display of underthings is the fact that the male sex has been as eager as the female to alter or improve on nature — throughout history from the Middle Ages onward.
一个史无前例的内衣展上揭示了这样一件惊人的事：自中世纪以来，男人和女人一样天性热衷于改变或改进内衣的样式。
A metal cage opens the Paris exhibition “La Mécanique des Dessous” (Behind the Seams: An Indiscreet Look at the Mechanics of Fashion) at the Musée des Arts Décoratifs through Nov. 24. This indiscreet history is not what translates in the mind as frills and fluff: The curator Denis Bruna had good reason to choose a scientific expression.
“内衣技术（缝隙背后：时尚技术秘史）”(“La Mécanique des Dessous” [Behind the Seams: An Indiscreet Look at the Mechanics of Fashion])展览在巴黎的装饰艺术博物馆(Musée des Arts Décoratifs)举办，将持续到11月24日。展览入口处是一个金属裙撑。这段风流艳史并不是人们想象中的全是流苏和褶皱：策展人丹尼斯·布鲁纳(Denis Bruna)有充分理由选择一个科学的表现方式。
“It is about structures, fabrics, materials and their mechanism,” Mr. Bruna, a historian at the museum, said as he described the body transformations that have morphed in the 21st century into “gymnastic sport and plastic surgery.”
“展览是关于结构、质地、原料和工艺，”布鲁纳（他是博物馆的一位历史学家）说，人们体型的变化在21世纪演变为“健身体育和整形外科”的问题。
Just why the soft fabrics, draped across the body in the era of ancient Greeks and Romans, were overturned by structured clothing — which Mr. Bruno dates to the 14th century — is one of the mysteries of fashion.
包裹整个身体的柔软织物曾在古希腊与罗马时代盛行一时，却演变为具有各种层次的服装。布鲁诺说，这种服装是从14世纪开始兴起的。这样的变化何以发生是时装史上的神秘事件之一。
Iron corsets, transforming into multi-stitched doublets and codpieces, were worn by the nobility. One of a series of screens, using multimedia intelligently in this excellent exhibition, explains how stiffening the figure in an upright pose was a signal of aristocracy and good breeding.
铁质胸托演变成多重缝纫的胸衣与遮阴布，供贵族们穿着。在这个精彩的展览上，巧妙使用了多媒体技术，在其中一块屏幕上，解释了通过束缚身体塑造挺拔形象何以成为贵族与良好出身的标志。
But what about those children, forced into whalebone stays, seen not only on tiny mannequins, but also on a group of dolls that reflected the fashions of the day? And the way that maternal brassieres opened for breastfeeding their infants seems like a technical wonder. Mechanics indeed.
但那些被迫穿上鲸骨支架的小孩子们怎么办呢？展览中不仅有小小的人体模型，也有一组娃娃，反映当今的时尚。母亲在为婴儿喂奶时穿的哺乳文胸仿佛是一桩技术奇迹。确实是一种工艺。
The most evident and elaborate undergarment is the crinoline, with its suggestion of caged sexual appetites, perversity and domination. Was it really embraced by women, as this exhibition suggests, because it was a comfortable way of lightening the load of a long and heavy skirt? And, if so, why the bustle, adding a fancy cockatoo to the female derrière?
裙撑可以算是最显眼，也是最精细的贴身衣物了。它显示出一种与束缚有关的性趣味、性变态和性征服。展览提出这样的问题：女人真的喜欢它吗，是不是因为它可以减轻厚重长裙的负担，让人舒服一点？如果是这样，为什么裙撑还要在女人臀部加上一个可笑的，鹦鹉尾巴一样的东西。
There are no answers as to why women have chosen to focus on different parts of their bodies from the uplifting bodice to the tiny corseted waist. If a glimpse of stocking really was something shocking in the Victorian era, French men created a counterpoint to the ankle as an erogenous zone. The museum has a padded jersey sock dated between 1850 and 1890 designed to fatten the calves as a different expression of virility.
从高耸的胸部到纤细的束腰，女人为何格外关注身体的某些部位，这一点无从得知。在英国维多利亚时代，看到女人露出长筒袜都是惊人的事；而法国人也不甘落后，他们觉得脚踝是最性感的部位。博物馆展出了一只塞垫衬的针织袜子，时间在1850至1890年之间，是为了让小腿更加丰满，以示男子气概。
It is good to see a curator challenge the received myths about fashion and sexuality. Constance Guisset, the exhibition designer, has also done a fine job of displaying the strange structures created from whalebone, straps, hoops and hinges.
令人高兴的是，策展人打破了时尚界和性学界那些已被广泛接受的神话。展览设计师康斯坦斯·吉赛(Constance Guisset)把那些使用鲸骨、皮带、铁箍与铰链的奇异制品呈现出来，效果也非常好。
The invention of stretch fabrics changed the materials but not their purpose. Men were chastised for bulging out at the waist and encouraged to squeeze into elasticized cummerbunds. In one of the most hilarious videos, an advertisement from a French company, promotes the perfect “slip,” men’s briefs, with a woman placing bulbous eggs under the garments.
缝纫织物改变了内衣的质材，但并没改变它们的目的。男人肚子太大会受到蔑视，他们被鼓励把腹围控制在松紧宽腰带的范围之内。在一段最精彩的视频里，一个来自法国公司的广告推销它男式内裤的完美顺滑，片中一个女人把植物球根放进衣服里。
It is to Mr. Bruna’s credit that what might have been a scoff-and-giggle exhibition is given a depth of scholarship and history. The accompanying book (published by the Musée des Arts Décoratifs but, alas, only in French) is deeply researched and finely illustrated, adding another dimension to the show.
由于布鲁纳的缘故，一个本来可能会引起嘲笑和傻笑的展览被赋予了历史与学术的深度。展览配发的书（由装饰艺术博物馆出版，但只在法国发行）对此进行深入研究，配有精美插图，为展览增添了新的维度。
As Guillaume François Roger Molé, a costume gallery owner, put it in 1797: “It is not enough to present the exterior of garments. It is important to understand the inside pieces: Often they are what makes fashion prestigious.”
正如一位服装博物馆馆主居罗姆·弗朗西斯·罗杰·莫雷(Guillaume François Roger Molé)于1797年所说：“仅仅展示外在服装是不够的。理解内里服装也很重要：时装的名声往往是由它们所成就。”
The only element that might have been further explored is how the rigidity of underclothes has been exchanged for the tyranny of the gym. Although the museum shows the contemporary plays on brassieres, with the inevitable conical shape from Jean Paul Gaultier, there is nothing to explain what is behind modern wonder bodies.
唯一一个可能未被充分探讨的话题，就是内衣如何因健身的严格需求而失去坚挺的硬度。尽管博物馆展出了现代文胸——当然，让·保罗·高缇耶(Jean Paul Gaultier)的圆锥文胸是不可回避的——但是并没有解释这些现代神奇内衣背后的原理。
Men may have cast off iron cages and elastic waist trimmers, but the famous Calvin Klein advertisements of the early 1990s with the rapper Marky Mark (now the actor Mark Wahlberg) or the Emporio Armani underpants on the soccer player David Beckham, showed men whose bodies were shaped by exercise, not enhanced by product.
男人已经抛弃铁制衣撑和弹性束腰，不过卡尔文·克莱因(Calvin Klein)在20世纪90年代初以说唱歌手马基·马克（Marky Mark，如今是演员马克·瓦尔伯格[Mark Wahlberg]）为主角拍的著名广告，或安普里奥·阿玛尼(Emporio Armani)以足球运动员大卫·贝克汉姆(David Beckham)为主角拍的广告，展示的都是本身身材好、无需通过内衣来加分的男人形象。
Perhaps that is why lingerie departments to this day still offer garments that claim to control unruly flesh.
也许这就是如今的内衣生产者何以仍然声称自己的产品可以掩饰赘肉的原因吧。