Carmen Balcells, the formidable literary agent who shepherded a generation of Latin American writers, including Gabriel García Márquez and Mario Vargas Llosa, to international prominence, died on Sunday at her home in Barcelona. She was 85.
卡门·巴尔塞斯(Carmen Balcells)是一位令人敬畏的文学经纪人，她照管了整整一代拉丁美洲作家，为他们带来国际声望，其中包括加夫列尔·加西亚·马尔克斯(Gabriel García Márquez)和马里奥·巴尔加斯·略萨(Mario Vargas Llosa)，她于周日在巴塞罗那家中逝世，享年85岁。
The cause was a heart attack, said Gloria Gutiérrez, an agent at the company Ms. Balcells founded in 1956, the Agencia Literaria Carmen Balcells.
卡门·巴尔塞斯文学代理公司的经纪人格劳丽亚·古提埃雷兹(Gloria Gutiérrez)宣布，她死于心脏病发作。这家公司是巴尔塞斯于1956年创立的。
Nicknamed “La Mamá Grande” after a story by Mr. García Márquez, Ms. Balcells rewrote the rules of Spanish-language publishing, negotiating better advances and multibook deals and abandoning a system in which writers would sign open-ended contracts with publishers. But she was also a larger-than-life presence, a confidante and friend who nurtured and encouraged her writers.
巴尔塞斯绰号“格兰德大娘”(La Mamá Grande)，这是根据加西亚·马尔克斯的一篇小说而来，她重新书写了西班牙语出版界的规则，为旗下作家争取更多利益、谈下涉及极大销量的交易，并且废除了作家必须与出版商签订开放式合约的体制。但她亦是一个传奇人物，是作家们的知己和朋友，为他们提供滋养和鼓励。
“She was much more than an agent or representative of the authors who had the privilege of being with her,” Mr. Vargas Llosa wrote in a tribute to Ms. Balcells in El País on Monday. “She took care of us, she spoiled us, she quarreled with us, she yanked our ears, and she filled us with understanding and kindness in everything we did, not only in our writing.”
“对于那些有幸与她共事的作家们来说，她不仅仅是一位经纪人或代表，”巴尔加斯·略萨周一在西班牙《国家报》(El País)发表的讣文中写道。“她照顾我们，宠爱我们，和我们吵架，揪我们的耳朵；她不仅关心我们的写作，对我们做的每一件事都表现出充分的理解与善意。”
Last year, Ms. Balcells signed a letter of intent with the New York literary agent Andrew Wylie to form the Balcells-Wylie agency and bring her writers under joint management. At her death, the merger talks had not concluded, leaving in play not only the future of her agency but also of one of the largest literary estates in the world, that of Mr. García Márquez, who died last year and is estimated to have sold more than 50 million books. In an email, Mr. Wylie called her “a great woman.” Ms. Balcells’ agency also represents some 300 other writers, including Isabel Allende, Javier Cercas and the estates of Carlos Fuentes, Clarice Lispector and Pablo Neruda.
去年，巴尔塞斯与纽约文学经纪人安德鲁·卫理(Andrew Wylie)签署意向书，成立巴尔塞斯-卫理经纪公司，并让她旗下的作家也加入这一联合公司。她去世之时，合并的谈判尚未结束，因此不仅是她的经纪公司，世界上最大的文学资产之一的未来亦悬而未决，其中就包括加西亚·马尔克斯的著作。马尔克斯于去年逝世，其作品售出了约5000多万册。在电子邮件中，卫理说她是“一位伟大的女性”。巴尔塞斯的经纪公司旗下还有300余名其他作家，包括伊莎贝尔·阿连德(Isabel Allende)、哈维尔·塞卡斯(Javier Cercas)，并拥有卡洛斯·富恩特斯(Carlos Fuentes)、克拉丽瑟·里丝贝朵(Clarice Lispector)和巴勃罗·聂鲁达(Pablo Neruda)等人的身后作品。
Ms. Balcells was born on Aug. 9, 1930, into a family of landowners in Santa Fe de Segarra, a small village in Catalonia. She studied business but never graduated from university. In a lengthy, multilingual interview in 2014 in her spacious Barcelona apartment, where both her charm and her fierceness were on full display, she said she had studied in Italy for a year, supporting herself by selling fake pearls.
巴尔塞斯于1930年8月9日出生于加泰罗尼亚的圣塔·菲·德·塞加拉村一个地主家庭。她学习商务专业，但未能从大学毕业。2014年，她在巴塞罗那宽敞漂亮、充分展示其主人魅力与热情的私宅中接受了一次详尽的采访，她以多种语言回答问题，说自己曾在意大利读书一年，靠贩卖假珍珠过活。
She remembered growing up under the dictator Francisco Franco, when a woman could not open a bank account without the signature of her father or husband. “I wanted to be independent, autonomous at a time when a woman without a rigorous education, without a powerful family, couldn’t choose what to do on her own,” she said.
她还记得自己成长期间，西班牙正值独裁者弗朗西斯科·佛朗哥(Francisco Franco)统治，当时女人如果没有父亲或丈夫签名，就不能开设银行账户。“在那个女人如果没有受过严格教育，家中没有权势就无法选择自己生活的年代，我却想做个独立自主的人。”
Ms. Balcells married Luis Palomares, who died in 2010. She is survived by a son, Lluís Miquel Palomares; a daughter-in-law; two brothers; and three granddaughters. Ms. Balcells said that besides having a family, her only dream was to open a literary agency with an author like “Gabo,” as Mr. García Márquez was known. The two met in 1965, and she sold the United States rights to his novel “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” published in 1967. It quickly sold one million copies.
巴尔塞斯后来与路易斯·帕罗马勒斯(Luis Palomares)结婚，他于2010年逝世。她尚在世的亲人包括路易斯·米凯尔·帕罗马勒斯、儿媳、两个兄弟和三个孙女。巴尔塞斯说过，除了家庭，她唯一的梦想就是开一家文学经纪公司，拥有像“加博”（加西亚·马尔克斯的绰号）这样的作家。两人相识于1965年，后来她把他于1967年出版的小说《百年孤独》卖到美国。该书销量很快达到100万册。
In the boom years of Latin American literature in the 1960s and ’70s, amid political turmoil, she brought Mr. García Márquez, a Colombian, and Mr. Vargas Llosa, a Peruvian, to Barcelona and set them up in apartments.
20世纪六七十年代正值拉丁美洲文学繁荣昌盛之际，然而那里的政治也处于急剧动荡之中，她把哥伦比亚人加西亚·马尔克斯和秘鲁人巴尔加斯·略萨带到巴塞罗那，把他们安置在公寓里。
“Without her, the Latin American boom would not have been what it was,” said Xavi Ayen, a journalist for the Barcelona daily La Vanguardia and author of “The Boom Years.” “She created the first generation of writers who could support themselves as novelists, and she had them come to live in Barcelona, in the same area, and turned them into great friends.”
“没有她，拉丁美洲文学不会如此繁荣，”巴塞罗那日报《先锋报》(La Vanguardia)记者与《繁荣岁月》(The Boom Years)一书的作者哈维·艾扬(Xavi Ayen)说。“她缔造了第一代可以靠写小说养活自己的作家，她还让他们来到巴塞罗那生活，和他们成了好朋友。”