In “Capital,” a modern offshoot of juicy social satires like Trollope’s novel “The Way We Live Now,” John Lanchester puts two of his characters in a compartment of the London Eye, the Ferris wheel that went up on the south bank of the Thames to celebrate the millennium. It’s the spring of 2008, a sunny day for once, and a Polish builder named Zbigniew and a Hungarian nanny named Matya are on a date. Though Britain is reeling from the double whammy of global economic woes and terrorism jitters, Zbigniew and Matya take in their bird’s-eye view with no special feeling of unease, apart from a twinge of motion sickness. On terra firma, both work for wealthy homeowners on a gentrified street called Pepys Road in the up-and-coming South London neighborhood of Clapham. At the beginning of the 21st century, before the bursting of the real estate bubble, property values on Pepys Road had soared — even for the modest end house, owned by a Muslim family, that holds a corner shop, and even for the crumbling terraced house owned by an elderly grandmother, which hasn’t had a change of linoleum, wall­paper or electrical wiring in 50 years. Owning property there, Lanchester writes, “was like being in a casino in which you were guaranteed to be a winner.” Lately, though, all is not well on Pepys Road. The high rollers’ holiday bonuses aren’t secure, cash in hand is getting scarce, and ominous postcards have been arriving in every mail slot, reading: “We Want What You Have.” If that weren’t alarming enough, a young man in a hoodie has been seen lurking in the dawn hours. We all know what that means.
《首都》，是一部从特普洛(Trollope)《我们现在的生活方式》(The Way We Live Now)这类绘声绘色的社会讽刺文学衍生出的现代版小说。作者约翰·兰彻斯特(John Lanchester)将笔下的两个人物置于“伦敦眼” 的座舱里，这是个摩天轮，位于泰晤士河南岸，为庆祝千禧年而兴建。那是2008年春天，一个难得的晴天，名叫兹比格涅夫的波兰建筑工人和名叫玛塔的匈牙利保姆正在约会。虽然英国因全球经济灾难和对恐怖主义胆战心惊的双重厄运而一蹶不振，但当兹比格涅夫和玛塔在鸟瞰风景时，除了感到一阵晕眩恶心外，未有特别的不安。在陆地上，他们俩都为富有的私房屋主打工，这些人住在一条翻新过的名叫佩皮斯路的街道上，位于伦敦南部前景看好的克拉彭区。21世纪初，在房地产泡沫破灭前，佩皮斯路的房价飞涨——就连一户在街角开店的穆斯林人家拥有的不起眼的房子，或者一栋破败不堪，50年里没换过油地毡、墙纸和电路接线的祖母所有的老房子也是这样。兰彻斯特写道，拥有那儿的房产，“就像身在一间稳是赢家的赌场。”可近来，佩皮斯路上的情况不尽如人意。挥金如土之士的假日奖金不再有保证，手头的现金日渐紧缺，每家每户的信箱里一直收到语气不善的明信片，写着：“我们会吞噬你们所有的。”如果这还不足以引起恐慌，那么，更有人发现，有一个穿连帽夹克衫的青年在黎明时分鬼鬼祟祟地活动。我们都明白那意味着什么。
Lanchester, a brainy, pleasure-loving polymath, is a novelist, memoirist and journalist who writes sagely and elegantly about food, family, culture, technology and money. He’s still best known for his delectably wicked first novel, “The Debt to Pleasure,” which blends murder with gourmandise. But he has also written a well-reasoned nonfiction book entitled “I.O.U.: Why Everyone Owes Everyone and No One Can Pay,” which closely analyzes the current financial collapse. Now, with “Capital,” he readjusts his sights and zooms out, framing a larger, more inclusive picture that shows how the easy-­money era affected not just greedy speculators but the society that fattened around them.
聪明、博学、喜爱享乐的兰彻斯特，是一位小说家、回忆录作者兼记者，写的东西包括美食、家庭、文化、技术和金融，文风睿智而优雅。他最广为人知的是俏皮的首部小说《欢愉的代价》(The Debt to Pleasure)，将谋杀与饕餮糅合在一起。不过他也写过一本清晰缜密的非虚构类作品，题为《我欠你：为什么人人欠债而无人能还》(I.O.U.: Why Everyone Owes Everyone and No One Can Pay)，仔细分析了当前金融业的崩毁。如今，在《首都》里，他重新调整视野，把镜头拉远，勾勒了一幅更广阔、内容更丰富的图景，呈现出银根放松时代，受到影响的不止是贪婪的投机者，还有外围的那些试图投机发财致富的群体。
Lanchester’s assured, detailed overview of today’s Britain recalls another London eye — not the Ferris wheel but Private Eye, the satirical publication that has taken the pulse of the country’s body politic for half a century. If the task of a well-meaning newspaper (as it’s often said) is to comfort the afflicted and afflict the comfortable, then the mission of Private Eye is broader: to afflict anyone, famous or obscure, who seems to deserve scrutiny, censure or mockery. Journalists and politicos can’t help reading the magazine, even when they themselves are skewered in its pages. Its regular features carve British behavior into attackable, overlapping compartments: real estate (Nooks & Corners), banking (In the City), politics (HP Sauce and Rotten Boroughs), journalism (Street of Shame) and so on. Lanchester’s novel integrates all these spheres and more. Reading “Capital” is like getting a crash course in the transformation of British mores and class distinctions, which otherwise might require a decade of remedial Private Eye-reading to decode.
兰彻斯特对今日英国自信而详尽的概述，令人想起另一只“伦敦眼”——不是摩天轮，而是《侦探（眼）》(Private Eye)，一份为这个国家的政体把了半个世纪脉的讽刺出版物。如果说一份善意的报纸（照其常说的）的任务是给痛苦的人以安慰、让安逸的人感到不安，那么《侦探》的使命更广泛：让任何人都不安。不管有名的或无名的，只要看似该受到监督、批评或嘲弄的人，全部都不放过。记者和政客按捺不住地阅读这本杂志，即便里面讽刺的是自己。杂志惯常的特点是用互相重叠的版块来刻画和攻击英国人的行为：房地产（凹处和角落）银行业（城市中的）、政治（HP调味酱和腐败选区）、新闻业（耻辱街）等等。兰彻斯特的小说把这些领域全都囊括在内，且不只如此。阅读《首都》犹如上了一堂有关英国道德习俗和阶级划分之变迁的速成课，否则，也许需要补读十年的《侦探》才能解密。
The regulars on Pepys Road include the Younts (a rich banker and his spoiled wife); the Kamals (the Muslim shopkeepers); Freddy and Patrick Kamo (a teenage soccer star and his protective father, scooped out of Senegal and deposited in a luxurious house for Premier League players); Petunia Howe (a little old lady of the Ealing Studios variety, whose grandson, Smitty, is an underground art provocateur); and a Zimbabwean traffic warden, Quentina Mkfesi, “the most unpopular woman in Pepys Road,” who seeks out expensive cars to ticket in order to win bets with her colleagues at Control Services (the flashiest one nabbed wins a pint or a £5 note). How can such disparate characters possibly be connected? Like it or not, they all share in the aura and onus of the real estate that surrounds them in a neighborhood where, Lanchester writes, “the houses were now like people, and rich people at that, imperious, with needs of their own that they were not shy about having serviced.” All the characters have something to lose; many also have something to hide.
佩皮斯路上的常客包括扬特夫妇（一位富有的银行家和他娇纵的妻子）；卡迈尔夫妇（穆斯林店主）；弗莱迪和派屈克·卡莫（一名青少年足球明星和保护他的父亲，被从塞内加尔挖来，安置在一栋英超联赛级球员居住的豪华宅邸内）；佩图尼娅·豪（伊林影视制作公司综艺节目里一位娇小的老妇人，她的孙子斯米梯是个地下艺术煽动者）；一名津巴布韦裔的交通管理员昆蒂娜·范西，她是“佩皮斯路上最不受欢迎的女人”，为和在管理部同事的打赌中（逮到最炫的一辆，赢一杯啤酒或五英镑）获胜，挑选昂贵的汽车来开罚单。这些毫不相干的人物，怎么可能联系到一块儿？不管愿不愿意，他们都共同生活在房地产的光环和污名下，这些房地产将他们团团包围，在一个，兰彻斯特写道，“如今房子和人一样，尤其是富人，嚣张跋扈，不怯于让自己的需要受到关照”的社区。所有人物都有失去的东西，许多人有隐瞒的东西。
At 40, Roger Yount, a financier in the City, is just old enough to be mystified by the number-crunching tricks the younger staffers at Pinker Lloyd perform with ease. His ignorance and bluff good nature can’t shield him from risk. Roger’s venal wife, Arabella, spews a litany of complaints that evoke the Private Eye column “Polly Filler,” in which a fatuous twit moans about her useless husband and her lazy au pairs. In a similar vein, Arabella derides Roger as a “clueless husband who had no idea what she did.” Nevertheless, Lanchester makes it clear that in a London that lacks self-indulgent people like the Younts, struggling people like Zbigniew and ­Matya would be jobless.
罗杰·扬特是伦敦金融城的投资家，40岁，正好老得让他看不懂平克·劳埃德里年轻职员们自如的数字把戏，他备受蒙蔽。他的无知和直率温厚的脾气未能让他免受风险。罗杰拜金的妻子艾拉贝拉发出一连串抱怨，令人想起《侦探》的“波利·菲勒”专栏，里面一个傻里傻气的笨蛋埋怨她没用的丈夫和懒惰的“互惠”服务生姑娘。艾拉贝拉嘲笑罗杰“是个愚蠢的丈夫，对自己做的事一无所知。”不过，兰彻斯特明确表示，在一个缺少像扬特夫妇这类放纵之徒的伦敦，像兹比格涅夫和玛塔这样挣扎奋斗的人就会失业、找不到工作。
Arabella, he allows, was “in her way resilient. She had the toughness of her obliviousness.” He has more sympathy for Ahmed and Rohinka Kamal, humble, hard-working immigrants whose tender regard for their children, kindness to their customers and struggles with Ahmed’s hotheaded relatives give the novel its greatest tension and heart. When Ahmed’s younger brother goes into a devout phase (faked, in Ahmed’s opinion), hiding the alcohol in the family shop because “Muslims were not supposed to blah blah,” Ahmed fumes: “As if everybody in the family were not well aware of these facts and also well aware of the economic necessities at work.” Patrick and Freddy Kamo respond differently to London’s economic ambience. The father loathes its strident materialism and yearns to return to Africa, but Freddy finds it “delightful” that the shop windows teem with covetable objects, “bought, and placed, and groomed, and shaped, and washed clean, and put on display as if the whole city was for sale” — including the citizens themselves, who dress at all times as if they are in costume, “even the beggars.”
在作者笔下，艾拉贝拉“有其自身顽强的适应力。她的健忘顽固不改。”他对卑微、勤劳的移民艾哈迈德和萝辛卡·卡迈尔寄予更多同情，他们对孩子的慈爱关切、对顾客的和蔼友善、以及与艾哈迈德急躁鲁莽的亲戚之间的争斗，赋予小说最激烈的张力和情感。当弟弟变得虔诚（艾哈迈德认为是装模作样），把家中店里的酒藏匿起来，因为“穆斯林不该这样这样”时，艾哈迈德大发雷霆：“好像家里每个人不明白这些事，又不了解实际的经济需要似的。”派屈克和弗莱迪·卡莫对伦敦经济环境的反应不同。父亲憎恶伦敦炫目的物质主义，渴望回非洲，而弗莱迪却觉得摆满向往之物的商店橱窗“赏心悦目”，“买来、放好、打理、调整、洗干净，然后陈列出来，仿佛整座城市都待售中”。包括市民本身，无时无刻不盛装打扮，像穿着戏服似的，“连乞丐都是如此”。
Freddy is on to something. Pepys Road’s oldest inhabitant, Petunia Howe, dons her granny get-up daily without a notion that anyone would think of it as a costume, but her grandson, a Banksy imitator, wears a suit and tie as a disguise so he can infiltrate art parties unrecognized. Even for an aesthetic mischief maker like himself, he reflects, “art was a business,” so “it was good to sniff around, to look at the players.” At least Quentina, the traffic warden, can’t be accused of sartorial artifice; her job demands that she wear a uniform.
弗莱迪洞悉了某些事。佩皮斯路最老的住户佩图尼娅·豪每日穿着奶奶的衣服，浑然不觉有人会认为那是戏服，而他的孙子，模仿班克斯，穿西装打领带，乔装以能混入艺术派对而不被发现。连像他自己这样一个美学捣蛋分子也认识到，“艺术是商业，”因此，“四处探查是有好处的。”不过至少，交通管理员昆蒂娜不能被指控为靠衣服骗人，她的工作要求她必须穿制服。
In the eventful year the novel spans, the residents of Pepys Road stagger from one trial to another and the postcard onslaught increases in frequency and nastiness, bringing with it fears that the campaign might sink everyone’s property values . . . and might have a link to Islamoterrorism. Even as the homeowners find it increasingly ludicrous that anyone would covet their precarious security, a mood of suspicion mounts. Early on, Petunia Howe had joked to Ahmed Kamal, who walked her home after she fainted in his shop, “When you’re my age, nobody wants what you have.” Ahmed had laughed, but her question lingers throughout the pages of this nuanced portrait of a country in flux. What does anyone on Pepys Road possess that can be defended? And what can anyone, anywhere, be sure of in an age when “safe as houses” has lost all its meaning?
在小说跨越的这多事的一年中，佩皮斯路上的住户经历了一次又一次考验，明信片的攻势日渐频繁，内容益发污秽不堪，伴之而来的是担心竞选可能使每个人的资产贬值……。可能和伊斯兰恐怖主义有关的惶恐。就在拥有房子的屋主感到荒唐可笑时，一股怀疑的情绪不断增长。早先，佩图尼娅·豪在艾哈迈德·卡迈尔的店里晕倒，艾哈迈德送她回家，她开玩笑说：“等你到了我这个年纪，没有人想要你所有的。”艾哈迈德笑了笑。佩皮斯路上的人拥有什么可保卫的东西？在一个连“绝对安全”之物也失去了全部意义的时代，无论哪里，无论谁，又有什么让人觉得可靠？