It is an obsession that has taken her to the other side of the world, one that has turned casual conversations into arm-twisting negotiations, and innocuous radio chitchat into a stealth attack on the mayor of New York.
是一种让卡罗琳·B·马洛尼(Carolyn B. Maloney)着迷的东西将她带到了世界的另一边，将闲谈变成了强力施压的谈判，将无伤大雅的广播闲聊变成了对纽约市长的暗中抨击。
This is the story of Representative Carolyn B. Maloney and her unusual ursine quest: to bring a pair of pandas to the city.
这是马洛尼众议员的故事以及她对熊类动物不寻常的索求之旅：把一对大熊猫带到纽约来。
Securing pandas for any American city is an undertaking of extraordinary diplomatic and financial complexity. The costs of leasing pandas from China, feeding them and building a suitable habitat would run into the tens of millions of dollars. And given that four American zoos already have pandas, persuading reluctant Chinese officials to relinquish two more to New York has been exceedingly difficult.
为任何一座美国城市寻求大熊猫，都是一次极其复杂的外交和金融行动。从中国租借大熊猫，喂养它们并建造适宜的居所，这些成本可能会高达数千万美元。而且考虑到美国已经有了四个饲养着大熊猫的动物园，说服不情愿的中国官员再给予纽约两只是非常困难的事情。
And yet, Ms. Maloney has been undeterred.
然而，马洛尼的立场坚定不移。
“After the financial crisis, 9/11, Hurricane Sandy, it’s about time to have something happy,” she said on a recent Monday, as she strode through the Bronx Zoo, wrapped in a scarf ornamented with pandas. “Let’s have a panda.”
“金融危机、9·11事件、桑迪飓风发生之后，是时候有点让人高兴的东西了，我们来只大熊猫吧，”最近的一个周一，她围着一条大熊猫主题的围巾，在布朗克斯动物园大步穿行的时候说道。
Her efforts carry all the marks of a lawmaker practiced in the art of hardball, and illustrate the surprising forms political advocacy can take.
她的努力，体现了一名熟稔政治角力的国会议员的所有特征，也显示出政治倡导活动可以采取一些令人惊讶的形式。
Needing the support of Mayor Bill de Blasio, a fellow Democrat, Ms. Maloney castigated him on the radio, declaring on a program on WNYM-AM last winter that the mayor plainly “doesn’t like pandas.” She won the backing of another Democrat, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who often jousts with Mr. de Blasio.
这件事需要同为民主党人的纽约市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)的支持，马洛尼在电台里严厉谴责他，上个冬天，她在WNYM-AM电台说市长明摆着“不喜欢大熊猫”。她还从另一名民主党人、州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)那里赢得了支持。库默经常与白思豪唇枪舌战。
Her office sent letter after letter to Chinese officials soliciting support, and in summer 2014 she traveled to China to visit a panda preserve in Chengdu.
她的办公室一封接一封地给中国官员发送信函，争取支持。2014年夏天，她还前往中国成都，参观那里的一个大熊猫保护基地。
And in a fund-raising coup, Ms. Maloney recently secured the support of Maurice R. Greenberg, the billionaire former chairman of A.I.G., who has agreed to help gather money for the project. Mr. Greenberg said he will host a breakfast in March to help initiate a fund-raising campaign for a panda exhibit.
在筹款方面，马洛尼最近获得了美国国际集团(AIG)的前董事长莫里斯·R·格林伯格(Maurice R. Greenberg)的支持，这位亿万富翁同意帮忙为这个项目筹集资金。他说自己将在3月主持一个早餐会，协助发起引进大熊猫的募捐活动。
“Our city,” he said in a statement, “would benefit in numerous ways from this project.”
“我们的城市，”他在一份声明中说，“会从多个方面受益于这个项目。”
At its most basic level, Ms. Maloney’s passion is understandable: Who doesn’t love pandas? (A brief video of Tian Tian, one of the pandas at Washington’s National Zoo, frolicking in the snow during last month’s blizzard has been shared roughly two million times on Facebook.)
在最基本的层面来看，马洛尼的热情是可以理解的：谁不喜欢大熊猫呢？（上个月的暴风雪中，华盛顿国家动物园的大熊猫添添在雪中嬉戏的一段短视频，已经在Facebook上转发了大约200万次。）
But the congresswoman’s enthusiasm for pandas is deeply personal, she said, dating back decades to when one of her young daughters aspired to become a panda scientist. That daughter is now in business school.
但她对大熊猫的热情有很深的个人因素，她说可以追溯到几十年前，她一个年幼的女儿立志要成为大熊猫科学家的时候。那个女儿现在就读于商学院。
Ms. Maloney, 69, said she had found that pandas have a unique power to bring people together. She recalled, for instance, a tense meeting with Chinese officials after NATO forces inadvertently bombed China’s embassy in Belgrade in 1999, during the war in Yugoslavia.
现年69岁的马洛尼说，她发现大熊猫有一种独特的力量，能让人们走到一起。例如，她回忆说，1999年南斯拉夫战争期间，北约部队误炸中国驻贝尔格莱德大使馆之后，他们与中国官员举行了会面，当时气氛很紧张。
The coiled tension in the room eased, she said, only after she “finally broke the ice with pandas.”
她说，直到她“最后用大熊猫打破了僵局”，房间里的紧张气氛才逐渐消散。
In 2016, Ms. Maloney’s quest has advanced to a new phase. She has successfully worn down the mayor, but his support came with a consequential caveat: Mr. de Blasio and the Wildlife Conservation Society, which manages the Central Park Zoo and the Bronx Zoo, declined to back any panda plan that relied on city or zoo money. Any panda exhibit would have to be financed entirely by private resources.
2016年，她对这件事的执着发展到了一个新的阶段。她终于把市长拖得让了步，但他的支持也附带了条件：白思豪和负责管理中央公园动物园和布朗克斯动物园的野生动物保护协会(Wildlife Conservation Society)拒绝为大熊猫项目提供市政府或动物园的资金。任何引进大熊猫的项目，都必须全额使用私人资金。
David Towne, the chairman of the United States-based Giant Panda Conservation Foundation, said a project of the scale envisioned in New York would require “support at the $50 million level.”
戴维·汤恩(David Towne)是总部设在美国的大熊猫保护基金会(Giant Panda Conservation Foundation)的主席，他说，纽约设想的这种规模的项目需要“5000万美元级别的资金”。
Mr. Towne, who said he had spoken with Ms. Maloney, warned that even if backers raised that much money, a New York panda project would face uncertain prospects, given that zoos in Atlanta, Memphis, San Diego and Washington already have giant pandas on display.
汤恩说，他曾与马洛尼讨论过，并曾警告她说，即使支持者筹集了那么多钱，纽约的大熊猫项目也将面临不确定的前景，因为亚特兰大、孟菲斯、圣迭戈和华盛顿的动物园里，都已经有大熊猫供公众参观了。
“China has been very vocal in saying, no more pandas to North America, or to the U.S., specifically,” Mr. Towne said.
“中国一直很明确地表示，不会再给北美大熊猫了，尤其是美国，”汤恩说。
For those reasons and others, Ms. Maloney has faced deep skepticism from officials in City Hall and conservation leaders in New York. An initial proposal to bring pandas to the Central Park Zoo foundered after she grudgingly conceded that the zoo did not have the necessities required for a panda habitat — as zoo officials had insisted all along.
由于这些和其他原因，纽约市政厅和野生动物保护协会的领导人对马洛尼深感怀疑。把大熊猫引进到中央公园动物园的一项初步提议不了了之，因为她颇不情愿地承认，这家动物园并没有大熊猫栖息所必需的条件——动物园的管理人员一开始就是这么说的。
In fall 2014, Ms. Maloney’s office drafted a letter, directed at Chinese officials, for the mayor to sign. City Hall left it without a signature for over a year — a particular sticking point, since China would not consider lending pandas to the city without Mr. de Blasio’s support.
2014年秋天，马洛尼的办公室起草了一封直接发送给中国官员的信函，让市长签字。市政厅拖了一年也没有签字，这是一个关键步骤，因为如果得不到白思豪的支持，中国就不会考虑把大熊猫借给纽约市。
But Ms. Maloney, now serving her 12th term in Congress, where she represents parts of Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn, did not rise in New York politics by taking no for an answer: She first won a seat on the City Council at age 36 by defeating an incumbent Democrat, then ousted an entrenched Republican congressman a few years later. More recently, she spent much of the fall as a highly visible advocate for reauthorizing the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. Congress renewed the law in late December.
现在已经是马洛尼在美国国会的第12个任期，她在那里代表曼哈顿、皇后区和布鲁克林区。对事情的坚持不懈，是她在纽约政坛崛起的原因之一：36岁时，她击败了一个在任的民主党人，首次赢得了市议会席位，几年后，她又战胜了一个根基牢固的共和党众议员。去年秋天，她花了很多时间来积极倡导重新启用《詹姆斯·扎德罗加9·11医疗及赔偿法案》(James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act)。去年12月下旬，国会再次批准了该法案。
At times, Ms. Maloney’s indifference to the obstacles in her path has generated friction on its own. In summer 2014, a senior official at the conservation society appealed to City Hall, writing in an email that things had reached “a new level of absurdity” as Ms. Maloney intended to bring a Chinese delegation to the Central Park Zoo.
马洛尼对自己道路上的障碍毫不畏惧，有时候，这本身也会带来摩擦。2014年夏，野生动物保护协会一名高级官员写电邮向市政厅求助，说马洛尼把大熊猫引进中央公园动物园的努力已经达到了“荒谬的新境界”。
“I think a statement saying that we appreciate her passion but we are not interested in pandas would be helpful,” the official wrote. “Clearly she doesn’t hear it when we say it to her respectfully.”
“我认为发一个声明会比较好，就说我们感谢她的热情，但我们对大熊猫不感兴趣，”这位官员写道。“显然，当我们礼貌地向她指出这一点时，她听不进去。”
Nevertheless, Ms. Maloney received a message in October from the Chinese ambassador in Washington, Cui Tiankai, agreeing that China’s forestry authorities would enter preliminary talks with New York and would “consider the formal initiation of cooperation when conditions are mature.”
尽管如此，去年10月，马洛尼收到了中国驻华盛顿大使崔天凯发来的消息，表示中国林业主管部门会与纽约开展初步谈判，然后“在条件成熟的时候，考虑正式启动合作”。
At the white-tie Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner in November, Ms. Maloney cornered Mr. de Blasio to further plead her case, and this time she brought reinforcement: John A. Catsimatidis, the billionaire political donor and owner of the supermarket chain Gristedes.
去年11月，来宾们身着燕尾服，参加艾尔弗雷德·E·史密斯纪念基金会晚宴(Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner)的时候，马洛尼抓住了白思豪谈这件事，而且这一次她带来了帮手：连锁超市Gristedes的老板、政治捐赠者、亿万富翁约翰·A·卡齐马蒂迪斯(John A. Catsimatidis)。
Gradually, Ms. Maloney and her negotiating partners approached a point of consensus. City Hall agreed to sign her letter, with the understanding that private funds would be required, and that the 265-acre Bronx Zoo would be a more appropriate site.
渐渐地，马洛尼和她的谈判对手开始趋于达成共识。市政府同意在她的信函上签名，但是这个项目需要由私人资金支付，而且占地265英亩的布朗克斯动物园更合适养大熊猫。
Ms. Maloney has also smoothed relations with the conservation society, and agreed during her visit to the Bronx Zoo to back a bill the group supports, designating the bison as the nation’s official mammal.
马洛尼也缓和了与野生动物保护协会之间的关系，在布朗克斯动物园参观的时候，她同意支持该协会倡导的一项法案，把美洲野牛列为美国国兽。
Mr. Catsimatidis, a candidate in 2013 for the Republican nomination for mayor, said he intended to lead a fund-raising drive and estimated that he could collect the money for a panda exhibit in 90 days.
2013年的共和党市长提名参选人卡齐马蒂迪斯表示，他打算领导一场募捐活动，估计能在90天内筹集到熊猫项目所需的资金。
More support has come from an even less likely source: the former House speaker Newt Gingrich, a Republican and a zoo enthusiast, who said in an email that New York would benefit from “these remarkable animals.”
更多的支持来自本来似乎不太可能的人：热心动物园事务的共和党人、前众议院议长纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)。金里奇在一封电子邮件中说道，纽约会从“这些非凡的动物中”获益。
“Surely the greatest American city ought to have pandas,” Mr. Gingrich wrote.
“这座最伟大的美国城市肯定应该有熊猫，”金里奇写道。
Ms. Maloney said she felt closer than ever to her ultimate aim. She said she envisioned a bamboo forest upstate, to secure a reliable food supply for the pandas, and she has begun to brainstorm what kind of animals New York could give to China as a token of appreciation and cultural exchange.
马洛尼称，她觉得自己离终极目标比以往任何时候都更近了。她说她想到要在纽约州北部种一片竹林，以便让熊猫有可靠的食物供应。而且她已经开始拼命想纽约可以送什么动物给中国，以示感谢并作为文化交流的象征了。