SÃO PAULO, Brazil — In February, during a protest here against the World Cup, demonstrators were running away from rubber bullets and tear gas when they bumped into a group celebrating Carnival. The Carnival people took shelter inside a bar, while cheering the police repression with shouts of: “Well done! Well done!” One man insulted a female demonstrator. He was laughing and clapping, his eyes filled with a mixture of rage and joy.
巴西圣保罗——今年2月，当一群抗议世界杯(World Cup)的民众四下奔逃，慌忙躲避橡皮子弹和催泪瓦斯时，他们遇到了一群狂欢节庆祝者。狂欢节的庆祝者躲进了一家酒吧，对警察的镇压表示欢迎，他们高呼：“干得好！干得好！”一名男子辱骂着一名女性抗议者，还一边大笑一边拍掌，眼里混杂着愤怒与喜悦。
Similar scenes have been repeated across the nation in the last few weeks. It seems Brazil doesn’t have just one national team representing it during this World Cup; it has two: those who support the tournament, and those who do not.
过去几周里，巴西反复出现类似的情景。似乎在本届世界杯期间，代表巴西的国家队不只有一个，而是两个：一支队伍支持世界杯，另一支则反对世界杯。
The pro side includes all soccer fans who are passionate about the World Cup, as well as Brazilians who are aligned with the federal government. They claim that it’s a huge economic opportunity and a good way to promote Brazil abroad. They also believe our country has sufficient resources to host the tournament while still investing in public services like health care and education. For them, it makes no sense blaming the World Cup for our domestic problems. They often use the word “legacy.”
世界杯支持者中包括所有热爱世界杯的球迷，以及与联邦政府立场一致的巴西人。他们声称，世界杯可以带来巨大的经济机遇，而且还是向外国宣传巴西的好方法。他们认为，我们国家有充足的资源来承办世界杯，同时还能对医疗和教育等公共服务进行投资。对他们而言，认为世界杯给巴西国内造成了问题的看法，是完全站不住脚的。他们经常使用“遗产”这个词。
“The airports, subways and stadiums will not go back with the tourists in their suitcases. They will stay here, benefiting us all,” said President Dilma Rousseff.
巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)说，“机场、地铁和体育场不会被装进旅行箱里，被游客们带回家。它们会留在这里，为我们造福。”
The supporters say that protests should have happened seven years ago; now it’s too late to complain. Those who continue in their opposition are seen as enemies of the left-wing government — hence, protesters are considered fascists or terrorists.
支持者说，抗议应该在七年前展开，现在抱怨已经太晚了。那些继续反对的人被视为左翼政府的敌人——所以，有人认为抗议者是法西斯或恐怖分子。
The other team is represented by the activists on the streets. They are almost alone in their struggle. They face the media’s disapproval and police repression; during one February protest, there were reportedly 2,300 police officers for 1,500 protesters — more than one officer for each demonstrator. That day, 262 people were arrested.
另一批人的代表是街头的活动人士，他们在战斗中几乎孤立无援。他们既受到媒体的批评，也面临着警方的镇压；在2月的一次抗议活动中，据称警方出动了2300人前去镇压1500名抗议者——每名抗议者要对付不只一名警察。当天有262人被捕。
The main reason for repressing or dismissing the protesters is that they are seen as vandals and criminals. Some of them — usually young people, many of them anarchists, who dress in black and cover their faces — do use what are called “Black Bloc” tactics. These originated in anticapitalist and antigovernment movements in Italy and Germany in the late 1970s and early ’80s. They consist of defensive tactics like forming a front line to protect demonstrators and building barricades, as well as offensive actions such as street fighting and vandalizing symbolic targets like government buildings or banks.
镇压或驱散抗议者主要原因是，他们被当成是破坏者和罪犯。他们当中有些人的确会使用所谓的“黑色阵营”(Black Bloc)战术——穿着黑色的衣服，并遮着脸。这些人通常是年轻人，其中许多是无政府主义者。这种做法源自20世纪70年代末及80年代初，意大利和德国的反资本主义和反政府运动。其中包括防守战术，如组成阵线保护抗议者，以及修建路障等；也包括攻击行动，如巷战和破坏政府建筑或银行等具有象征意义的目标。
Of course, the Black Blocs represent a small part of the rallies — I’d say roughly 10 percent. Most of the demonstrators are peaceful and just want to openly disapprove of the excessive spending of public money on a private event. They point out that, seven years ago, the government promised that “not a single cent of public funds” would be spent building or refurbishing stadiums. But almost 97 percent of the investment in the arenas has come from taxpayers’ money. Of the World Cup’s total cost of $11.5 billion, 85.5 percent has come from public funds. The protesters also speak out against forced evictions, deaths of construction workers, tax exemptions and corruption.
当然，“黑色阵营”只是抗议者的一小部分——我认为大概占10%。大多数抗议者都很和平，只想公开反对把大量公共资金用于私营项目的做法。他们指出，七年前政府曾承诺，修建或翻新体育场馆“不会动用一分钱的公共资金”。但几乎97%的场馆投资都是纳税人的钱。在本届世界杯115亿美元（约合715亿元人民币）的总成本中，85.5%来自公共资金。抗议者也在公开反对强制拆迁、建筑工人死亡、税收优惠和腐败等现象。
On June 12, the first day of the World Cup, a protest in São Paulo was brutally repressed before it could even start. The police detained 33 citizens for “verification purposes,” even though this is illegal under our Constitution. Lawyers were denied access to their clients, while first- aid workers and legal observers were also attacked. Several police officers removed their identification tags.
6月12日，世界杯的第一天，圣保罗的一场抗议甚至都还没开始，就已经被残暴地镇压了。警方以“核实身份”为由关押了33名公民，尽管根据宪法，这种做法是违法的。警方不允许律师会见当事人，急救人员和法律观察人士也受到袭击。若干名警察没有佩戴表明身份的标牌。
Despite these problems, our news media is covering politics as if it were a sporting event. “Residents 3 vs. Activists 1,” read a recent headline in one major newspaper, after a protest in São Paulo — as though it was a soccer match between police officers and protesters, with people watching from the stands.
尽管有这些问题，但我们的新闻媒体在报道政治问题时，仿佛把它当成了一场体育比赛。前不久，圣保罗的一场抗议结束后，一份主要报纸上刊登的一篇报道标题是“本地居民3分，活动人士1分”(Residents 3 vs. Activists 1)，仿佛那是警察与抗议者之间的一场足球比赛，人们在旁边观战。
The newspaper said that residents harassed protesters and, in one city, threw eggs at them. “Shoot them!” a man yelled to the police from his window. “Crush them!” shouted a 70-year-old woman, claiming that Brazilians were embarrassing themselves in front of the world. A retired salesman told a New York Times reporter, “I just want Brazil to win the cup in order to silence these clowns who are protesting.”
那家报纸说，当地居民袭击了抗议者，一座城市的居民还向抗议者扔鸡蛋。“毙了他们！”一名男子隔着窗户向警察喊。“揍扁他们！”一名70岁的老妇人喊道。这名老人称，巴西人正在全世界面前出丑。一名退休销售员告诉《纽约时报》，“我只希望巴西能赢得世界杯，好让这些抗议的小丑闭嘴。”
So we’ve reached a Brazil vs. Brazil situation, a competitive scenario in which one side celebrates the harms done to the other. What I don’t understand is how the pro-World Cup people could possibly win when the protesters are repressed, since their own civil rights are also at stake. The more they celebrate the violation of basic rights like freedom of expression and the right to assemble, the more everybody loses.
于是我们看到了一场“巴西打巴西”的情形，在这种互不相让的局面中，一方受到伤害，另一方就弹冠相庆。我不明白的是，抗议者遭到镇压时，支持世界杯的人如何能获胜，因为他们自己的公民权利也岌岌可危。他们越是庆贺言论自由、游行集会等基本权利被侵犯的情形，所有人失去的就越多。
This became clear to me during that February protest, when the Carnival group was cheering on the police from the shelter of a bar. Suddenly, for no apparent reason, the police threw a percussion grenade inside the bar. The man who, moments before, had insulted a female demonstrator, was the first to be brutally pushed by a police officer.
我清楚地意识到了这一点，是在2月的那次抗议期间。当时，庆祝狂欢节的人群正在从一家酒吧里给警察加油鼓劲。突然，警察没有明显理由地把一枚闪光雷扔进了酒吧。第一个被警方粗暴地推开的，就是那个刚刚还在辱骂女性示威者的男子。