Alexander Rhodes sat along a stretch of grass, looking out over the Allegheny River. The two of us were sitting in a quiet space on the outskirts of Pittsburgh where we had planned to spend the night in tents camping out.
亚历山大·罗兹(Alexander Rhodes)坐在一片草地边上，遥望阿勒格尼河(Allegheny River)。我们俩坐在匹兹堡近郊一个安静的开阔地，打算那个晚上在那里搭帐篷野营。
“The key thing to consider is that I am not a very good businessman,” he said. “I’m not really anything but a guy who was addicted to internet porn.”
“关键是，我不是一个很好的生意人，”他说，“我其实什么都不是，只是一个曾经对互联网色情上瘾的人。”
A few years ago, Rhodes, 26, founded a website as an online space meant to help others who share his particular problem. It has about 1 million unique visitors each month, he said, and nearly breaks even.
几年前，26岁的罗兹创立了一个网站，旨在帮助和他有同样问题的人。他说，每个月大约有100万独立访问者，能基本实现收支平衡。
Rhodes, who grew up in western Pennsylvania and worked at Google until recently, is now hoping to make his site into something larger. With the help of his father and other family members, he is transforming part of an abandoned church into a base of operations for his fledgling company.
罗兹在宾夕法尼亚州西部长大，直到不久前一直为谷歌(Google)工作。现在，他想把自己的网站做大。在父亲和其他家庭成员的帮助下，他正把一座废弃教堂的一部分改造成自己初创公司的运营基地。
“It’s one thing to look back and regret what happened in terms of growing up, being addicted to internet porn,” he said. “You might look back and be like: ‘Oh, man. I was a loser. And if I never watched it, my life would be so much better.’ And maybe that’s true. But at the same time, the fact that I was addicted to internet porn, the fact that I was so mediocre, makes me uniquely qualified to help humanity.”
“回想过去，后悔成长过程中发生的事情是一回事，后悔沉迷于网络色情是另外一回事，”他说道。“你可能会回首往事，心想，‘哦，天哪，我曾是个失败者。如果我从没看过它，我的人生会好得多。’这也许是事实。但与此同时，我曾沉迷网络色情、变得如此平庸，却让我更有资格帮助人类。”
In recent years, Rhodes has emerged as a spokesman against a “disease” that hasn’t been officially recognized by the medical establishment. He seemed uneasy with his new status.
近些年，罗兹成为对抗一种尚未被医学专家正式认可的“疾病”的代言人。他似乎为自己的新地位感到不安。
He was careful with every word and asked to go off the record more than a government official. He would not confirm whether he was involved with someone, saying only that, since giving up pornography “for good” in 2013, he has been able to have meaningful relationships with women.
他措辞非常小心，要求不要写进报道的比例比政府官员还高。他不愿袒露自己是否有女友，只是说，从2013年“彻底”戒除黄片之后，他能够与女人建立有意义的恋爱关系。
In some ways, his story is that of the digital age. His father was a computer programmer, and he was exposed to digital technology from early on. He gravitated to Nintendo Game Boy and eventually moved to the Nintendo 64 and Sony PlayStation.
从某些方面讲，他的故事是数字时代的故事。他父亲曾是一名电脑程序员，所以他很早就开始接触数码技术。他迷上了任天堂Game Boy，然后慢慢转向任天堂64和索尼PlayStation。
At 11 or so, he said, he clicked on a banner ad by mistake and found an image depicting rape. By the time he had reached adolescence, so had the internet, and Rhodes came to rely on high-definition pornography that was easy to find and often free. By college, he was masturbating while watching it up to 14 times a day, he said.
他说，大约11岁时，他误点了一个广告条，结果看到一张描绘强奸的图片。罗兹进入青春期时，互联网也进入青春期，他开始痴迷高清黄片，它们很容易找到，而且很多是免费的。他说，上大学时，他每天要看着黄片手淫多达14次。
“I would say, ‘OK, I have to take a few days to recover from this, like physically recover,'” he said, “and I couldn’t last for even a day.”
“我会对自己说，‘好吧，我必须停几天，让身体恢复一下，’”他说，“但我连一天也坚持不了。”
Rhodes’ seeming dependence on porn didn’t help matters with his first girlfriend, whom he started dating when he was a sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh. It was his first real chance for sustained intimacy, and he blew it.
罗兹对色情片的依赖对他和第一位女友的关系没有任何益处，他在匹兹堡大学(University of Pittsburgh)上大二时开始与这位女友约会。那是他第一次真正有机会建立长久的亲密关系，但被他搞砸了。
“I don’t think it was all due to internet porn,” he said. “But I can tell you that the sex life didn’t go very well. I had porn-induced erectile dysfunction — a very mild form, and this is all very self-diagnosed, because doctors won’t diagnose this — but I was able to maintain an erection by fantasizing about pornography. That was the only way.”
“我并不认为那全是因为网络色情，”他说，“但我可以告诉你，我们的性生活不太好。当时我有色情片引发的勃起障碍——非常轻度的障碍，这完全是我自己诊断的，因为医生不会诊断这个——但我能通过幻想色情画面保持勃起。只有那种方式有用。”
A Time for Change
该改变了
In 2011, Rhodes was lost and in search of support. He created a discussion forum on Reddit on the topic of abstaining from masturbation and pornography. He realized he was far from alone and began his stand-alone site soon after.
2011年，罗兹感到迷失，开始寻找支持。他在Reddit网站创立了一个论坛，讨论戒除手淫和黄片。他发现还有很多人跟自己一样，不久之后他自己创立了一个网站。
After college, he continued to build the site while working as a contractor for Google, specializing in data analysis. He said he earned good money and was able to put a good amount into the website (called NoFap.com, from a slang term for masturbation). But he was still using the supposed vice he was railing against. It took another failed relationship to get him to quit.
大学毕业后，他继续建设这个网站，同时作为承包商为谷歌做数据分析。他说自己挣了不少钱，能往网站上投入很多（他的网站名叫NoFap.com，fap是手淫的俚语）。不过他依然无法摆脱自己正在谴责的恶习。又一次恋爱失败后，他才真正戒除。
“I think I was relying on pornography as some kind of emotional crutch,” he said. “If anything bad would happen, you would go to porn, because it would always be there.
“我觉得当时我把黄片用作某种情绪支撑，”他说，“如果发生了糟糕的事，我就会去看黄片，因为它一直都在那儿。”
“I knew it was bad for me,” he said. “But I also realized it was bad for women I was involved with, and that was the moment that I said: ‘I need to leave this thing behind. It is completely distorting my sexuality to the point where it could actually be harmful or at least not enjoyable for other people who I am involved with.'”
“我知道它对我有害，”他说，“我也知道它对跟我交往的女人有害，就在那时，我对自己说：‘我必须甩掉它。它完全扭曲了我的性生活，它真的有害，至少令跟我交往的女友感到不快。’”
Rhodes came to believe he had a calling greater than his work in data analysis at Google. “It wasn’t an easy decision,” he said of his leaving the job last year. “But ultimately it was what was best for humanity.”
罗兹慢慢觉得，与在谷歌做数据分析的工作相比，他有更重要的使命。“这个决定不好做，”他提起去年辞职的事时说，“不过，最终对人类来说，它是最好的决定。”
The website serves as an online umbrella for men looking to escape pornography. It has advertisements for porn-blocking software and online programs that promote the idea of steering clear of pornography and masturbation. The site also has discussion forums and includes testimonials by men sharing stories of their successes and failures.
对想要逃离黄片的男人来说，这个网站是网上的一把保护伞。它上面有屏蔽色情内容的软件的广告，还有一些鼓励摆脱看黄片手淫恶习的在线项目。网站上还有论坛，包括感谢男人们分享自己成功和失败经历的致谢信。
And it helps match men with “accountability partners” meant to serve as Alcoholics Anonymous-style sponsors, to keep a person on the right path. The site generates revenue through subscriptions and advertising, Rhodes said.
它帮助男人们寻找“责任伙伴”，就像匿名戒酒互助会(Alcoholics Anonymous)的担保人一样，帮助他们走上正轨。罗兹说，该网站通过捐款和广告获得收入。
The Confession
忏悔
On the first day I visited Rhodes, we climbed the stairs of the former St. Clement Church in Tarentum, Pennsylvania. The structure, built in 1906, had long since been abandoned, its pews, confessional and attached school crumbling and gathering dust.
在我与罗兹会面的第一天，我们爬上宾夕法尼亚州塔伦特姆的前圣克莱门特教堂(St. Clement Church)的阶梯。这座建筑建于1906年，荒废很久，教堂的长椅、忏悔室和附属学校都十分破败，布满灰尘。
His father, Phillip Rhodes, had recently bought the sprawling complex at auction for $50,000. While the church is likely to house other businesses, the younger Rhodes sees a future there for him and a fully staffed operation.
前不久，他的父亲菲利普·罗兹(Phillip Rhodes)在拍卖会上以5万美元买下这个庞大的建筑群。虽然这座教堂很可能还会入驻其他公司，但是亚历山大·罗兹在这里能看到自己和一个人员齐备的公司的未来。
He sat on one side of the church confessional while I sat on the other. “Tell me the last time you watched porn,” I said, joking.
他坐在教堂忏悔室的一侧，我坐在另一侧。“告诉我你上次看黄片是什么时候，”我开玩笑说。
Despite the location, he has largely kept away from religious people, especially evangelicals wanting to team up with him, even though such a relationship could help fund his work.
虽然公司位于一座教堂，不过他基本上远离信教者，尤其是想跟他合作的福音派，尽管这样的关系能帮助他筹资。
“I have viewpoints that don’t mesh with their viewpoints,” Rhodes said. “I’m very sex-positive. I’m not a religious person. I’m not someone who supports religion. I’m not against religion, but I don’t support it. And I completely, firmly believe in premarital sex.”
“我的有些观点跟他们的不同，”罗兹说，“我非常支持性。我不信教。我也不支持宗教。我不反对宗教，但也不支持。我完全、坚定地支持婚前性行为。”
Rhodes said he has also endured the wrath of those on the other end of the ideological spectrum. People have tried — and failed — to hack the site’s servers, and its forums have been bombarded with pornographic images, he said. His father received pornography in the mail, Rhodes said, and he himself has gotten death threats.
罗兹说，他也经受过观点跟自己完全相反的人的愤怒。他说，有人曾经尝试攻击网站的服务器——不过失败了——网站论坛也曾遭到色情图片轰炸。罗兹说，他父亲收到过色情邮件，他本人收到过死亡威胁。
“It’s just something you have to deal with and let the proper authorities follow up on anything,” he said.
“这是你必须应对的，让合适的管理部门跟进处理，”他说。