For nearly 25 years, fashion designer Maria Cornejo has remained true to herself and her artful vision.
将近25年间，时装设计师玛利亚·科奈约(Maria Cornejo)一直忠于自我，保持着设计中巧妙的视觉特色。
GETTING STARTED In 1980, Cornejo followed her boyfriend John Richmond from Manchester, England, to London to study fashion. After selling her senior thesis collection to a local boutique — Chrissie Hynde and Iggy Pop bought pieces — she and Richmond launched the Richmond Cornejo label. “The clothes were very urban-cowboy-punk,” the 51-year-old designer recalls. Soon, they had a fervent following in Japan, their designs were making the pages of i-D and The Face and they were regulars at buzzy spots like Taboo and the Wag. “I was very hip,” she says with a slight wince. In 1987, she and Richmond ended their relationship as well as their business partnership.
起步：1980年，科奈约跟男朋友约翰·里士满(John Richmond)从英格兰曼彻斯特来到伦敦学习时装。后来她把本科毕业设计系列卖给了本地一家精品时装店，克里希·海德(Chrissie Hynde)和伊基·波普(Iggy Pop)也买了几件。之后她和里士满合作创立了里士满-科奈约品牌。“那些衣服都是都市风-牛仔风-朋克风的，”现年51岁的科奈约回忆。不久后，他们开始在日本拥有一批狂热拥趸，他们的设计开始频频在《i-D》和《面孔》(The Face)杂志上出现，他们也成了“禁忌”(Taboo)和“摇摆”(Wag)等喧嚣夜店的常客。“我那时很时髦，”她微微蹙着眉说。1987年，她和里士满恋爱关系破裂，生意上的合作也就此告终。
THE ETHOS BEHIND ZERO + MARIA CORNEJO After marrying the photographer Mark Borthwick and living with him in Paris for several years, the pair moved to New York in 1996. Cornejo wanted to create a couture T-shirt line because “every woman in the city wore jeans.” She was bored by the formulaic ways of corporate fashion so she only worked with easy shapes like triangles, squares and circles. She scissored out asymmetrical blouses, sculptural dresses and drapey trousers. The result was clothes that could appear tricky on the hanger but, once on, looked elegant and fluid. When she opened her first Zero + Maria Cornejo store in NoLIta in 1998, she displayed a few pieces in the window. “Our first day, we made $2,500 dollars. We thought it was a good sign,” she says. Her first fashion show wasn’t so auspicious. Instead of models she used friends. As Cornejo explains, “It went down like a ton of bricks.”
Zero+玛利亚·科奈约背后的理念：科奈约与摄影师马克·波斯维克(Mark Borthwick)结婚后在巴黎生活了几年，1996年，二人移居纽约。科奈约想开发高级定制T恤衫，因为“这座城市里所有女人都穿牛仔裤”。她厌倦了俗套的大牌时装，于是只使用简单的形状，诸如三角形、正方形和圆形；并裁剪出不对称的上衣，有雕塑感的长裙和打褶的裤装。最后的时装挂在衣架上可能有些奇怪，但是一穿上身就会显得优雅而又流畅。1998年，她在诺丽塔区(NoLIta)开了第一家Zero+玛利亚·科奈约门店，在橱窗里展出了几件商品。“第一天的营业额是2500美元，我们觉得这是个好兆头，”她说。她的第一场时装秀并不是什么开门红。她没有请专业模特，而是使用自己的朋友来走秀。她说：“就像一吨倒下的砖头一样一败涂地。”
INSPIRATION Cornejo credits her husband, who is known for his ethereal, sun-drenched photographs, with teaching her to “find beauty in the unexpected.” “I’m a nervous nelly but Mark is very sky-is-the-limit, so I get a lot of joy from him,” she says. The designer frequently finds herself snapping iPhone photos and then manipulating the images onto her designs. (A candid shot of her son’s reflection in a pool evolved into an evil-eye print for a recent collection.) It’s no surprise that she also looks to artists for ideas, like the ceramicist John Pagliaro’s pottery and the paintings of Wengechi Mutu, which are “a clashing of colors and tribalism and women. All my favorite things.”
灵感：科奈约的丈夫以轻盈、充满阳光的照片而闻名，科奈约说他是自己的灵感来源，教会她懂得“在不其然的事物中发现美”。“我是个紧张兮兮的胆小鬼，马克却天不怕地不怕，所以我和他在一起很快乐，”她说。她开始经常用iPhone拍照片，再把图案应用到设计中去。比如她最近的系列里就用上了她偷拍儿子在水面上的倒影，把这幅画面发展成了“邪恶之眼”的图像。当然，她也经常到其他艺术家的作品中寻找创意，比如陶艺家约翰·帕格里阿罗(John Pagliaro)的陶器和温格奇·穆图(Wengechi Mutu)的油画，她说，这些画“用撞色来描绘部落文化和女人们，都是我最喜欢的东西”。
FAMILY LIFE While her 22-year-old daughter, Bibi, has turned into a talented photographer like her father, Cornejo’s 16-year-old son, Joey, is interested in following in his mother’s footsteps. “He likes the business side and the super-high-fashion brands, Balenciaga, Givenchy . . . ” she says. Borthwick uses their house as a location for many of his shoots for magazines like Purple Fashion and Self Service, while Cornejo likes to disconnect after office hours. “I come home and don’t want to think about fashion and then there’s a stylist and a rack of clothes in the corner,” she says. Borthwick, however, manages to prepare dinner for them most evenings. “He likes to cook and entertain and I like to clean, so it balances itself out.”
家庭生活：科奈约的女儿碧碧今年22岁，和父亲一样是个很有才华的摄影师，而她16岁的儿子乔伊对母亲的事业更有兴趣。“他喜欢比较商业的东西，喜欢那些超级大牌，巴黎世家(Balenciaga)、纪梵希(Balenciaga)之类的……”她说。波斯维克在家里为《紫色时尚》(Purple Fashion)和《自助》(Self Service)等合作杂志拍摄了大量照片，但是科奈约则喜欢下班回到家里放松。“我一回家，就不愿再想时尚的事，然后就看见家里有个造型师，角落里放着一大堆衣服，”她说。不过大多数时候都是波斯维克为家人做晚饭。“他喜欢做饭弄吃的，我喜欢做卫生，所以我们很互补。”