The message implicit in the prizewinning documentaries “Detropia” and “Searching for Sugar Man,” in Detroit’s declaration of bankruptcy in 2013 — in even a casual drive along Gratiot Avenue, past mile after mile of burned-out or boarded-up houses and stores — is that Detroit is in a pitiable state.
无论是获奖纪录片《底特律的崩溃》(Detropia)和《寻找小糖人》(Searching for Sugar Man)，还是底特律去年的破产风波，都隐含着一则信息——甚至，你只要开车沿着格拉希厄特大道(Gratiot Avenue)随意驰骋，经过数英里被烧毁或被木板封住的民居商铺，就能读出这个信息——那就是，底特律目前的处境悲惨。
Yet when Toby Barlow reflects on Detroit, his adopted hometown, what he describes is potential, not pity — cheap real estate being the major reason.
不过，托比·巴洛(Toby Barlow)在谈到他的第二故乡底特律时，所用的字眼却是“有潜力”而非“悲惨”——地产价格低廉是主要的原因。
“It’s fun to be here and be a part of those things that are re-emerging,” says Mr. Barlow, creative director at the advertising agency Team Detroit. “There are just a wealth of things that don’t exist in Detroit — and should.”
“在这里见证周围事物的复兴，是一件有趣的事，”广告公司Team Detroit的创意总监巴洛说，“有太多事东西，是底特律应该拥有但还没有的。”
To create those things in the Motor City, Mr. Barlow, 48, who moved from New York to work on a Ford Motor account and stayed, has become an entrepreneur. He has opened a design store in Midtown, founded a nonprofit at Eastern Market that trains people in letterpress printing, and plans to open a restaurant in Corktown soon.
为了在这座汽车城里创造出这些事物，48岁的巴洛成为了企业家。此前，他从纽约来到这里，与福特汽车公司进行业务往来，由此便在底特律住了下来。他在中城区开了家设计店，在城东市场(Eastern Market)创立了一家非营利性的苯胺印刷培训机构，还计划近期内在科尔克敦(Corktown)开一家餐馆。
He has even found time to publish two novels since moving to Detroit from Brooklyn seven years ago. But his newest, headline-grabbing venture — with Sarah Cox, his partner in the project and another Brooklyn transplant — is one that aims to revitalize the city’s art community and potentially be a model for post-blight Detroit.
自从七年前从布鲁克林搬到底特律以来，他甚至抽时间出版了两本小说。不过最近，他与同是从布鲁克林搬来的莎拉·考克斯(Sarah Cox)合伙发起一个项目，吸引了媒体的关注。该项目旨在振兴底特律的艺术行业，在这个百废待兴的城市树立典范。
The project is called Write A House, and it is giving free houses to writers.
该项目被称为“写出一座屋”(Write A House)，将为作家们提供免费的住房。
Starting in April, a prestigious panel of writers and poets will review applications from literary authors, poets and journalists; winners will receive free houses.
从4月起，一个由资深作家和诗人组成的评议会，将开始审核文学创作者、诗人和记者们提交的申请资料；获得通过的申请者将获得免费住房。
They need to live in the renovated structures two years, pay modest fees ($500 monthly) for insurance and taxes, make low-cost interior improvements and participate in Write A House’s blog and literary readings.
他们需要在这些修缮后的住宅里住两年，每个月支付500美元（约合人民币3106元）的低廉保险金和税费，对室内进行低成本的装修，并且为“写出一座屋”的博客和文学读物供稿。
They must also be of modest income. “If you were making a good living as a writer, you probably weren’t going to want to move to Detroit,” Mr. Barlow jokes.
他们还必须是低收入者。“如果你从事写作、收入很高，你可能不会想搬到底特律来，”巴洛开玩笑道。
The first three houses, in ramshackle but salvageable shape, have already been acquired. They are clustered in the neighborhood north of Hamtramck called Banglatown, for its large Bangladeshi community. One house was donated; two were purchased for $1,000 each.
头三套住房已经出手，虽然破败不堪，但仍有挽救的余地。它们密密匝匝地挤在一起，坐落在哈姆特拉米克(Hamtramck)以北的社区里。该社区叫做“孟加拉镇”(Banglatown)，因为其中居民以孟加拉人居多。其中一套房子是被捐出的，其余两套各以1000美元（约合人民币6212元）的价格售出。
Over 12 weeks, starting in April, these three classic Detroit bungalows will undergo overhauls by construction trainees from the nonprofit Young Detroit Builders, supervised by a professional contractor. Each renovation will cost $35,000 to $70,000.
从4月开始，在12周的时间里，非营利性机构Young Detroit Builders的见习建筑师们将在专业承包商的监督下，对这三套设计经典的底特律单层小屋进行彻底修缮。每套房子的修缮将耗费3.5万到7万美元（约合人民币21.7万到43万元）。
The first $30,500 for the renovation work was raised in December via the crowdfunding site Indiegogo; a second appeal is online at Fundly.com and a matching grant is expected.
头一笔30500美元（约合人民币189475元）的修缮费，已于12月通过众筹网站Indiegogo筹得；第二轮筹资活动正在Fundly.com网站进行；还有一笔配比补助金也有望到位。
While Write A House pursues tax status as a charitable organization to seek foundation grants for what Mr. Barlow calls a “realistic” goal of three or four houses a year, the Indiegogo effort has already spread the word. Hundreds of writers have contacted the group.
尽管“写出一座屋”致力于争取慈善机构的减免税资格，以便向基金会申请补助、完成巴洛所说的“现实目标”——也就是每年提供三、四套住房；但是Indiegogo的筹资活动已经使其声名远播。目前已有成百上千名作家联系了该机构。
“We were very thrown, in a good way, by the positive responses,” Mr. Barlow says. He says some have come from South America, Northern Europe and India, “not to mention across town and in the suburbs, and places like New York, Pittsburgh and Texas.”
“能收到大家的积极反馈，我们受宠若惊，”巴洛说。他说有些作家来自南美洲、北欧和印度，“至于来自市区和市郊，以及像纽约、匹兹堡、德克萨斯州这些地方的人，就更不用提了。”
Mr. Barlow’s partner, Ms. Cox, 31, is a journalist and another Detroit booster. She works for the real estate website detroit.curbed.com and relocated from New York three years ago because “I found the cost of living there a little prohibitive.”
作为记者，巴洛的合伙人、31岁的考克斯也是一名复兴底特律的热心人士。她就职于地产网站detroit.curbe.com，三年前从纽约搬到这里，因为“我觉得纽约的生活成本有点不近人情。”
She, too, cites Detroit’s low-cost real estate and improving safety. “There’s more going on than just burned buildings and foreclosure,” Ms. Cox says. “It is a good and interesting place to start a business, and I have friends who have come from Brooklyn or Toronto or other places to start a business in Detroit.”
她也提到了底特律的低成本房地产和正在改善的治安。“这里不只有被烧毁的建筑和止赎房产，更多事情正在发生，”考克斯说，“这是个有趣的好地方，适合创业。我有几个朋友从布鲁克林、多伦多或者其它地方跑到底特律来创业了。”
Those friends may benefit from Wayne County’s annual auction of 20,000 homes and the current $12- to $16-per-square-foot price for retail properties. Prices range widely for the city’s residential properties, up to $150 a square foot. (Business Insider recently compared the space $1 million will buy you: 2,358 square feet in New York, 83,333 in Detroit.)
她的朋友可能将受益于韦恩县(Wayne County)每年举办的包含两万套住房的拍卖会，以及时下每平方英尺12到16美元（约合每平方米人民币828到1104元）的房产零售价。底特律住宅房产的价格差别比较大，有的高达每平方英尺150美元（约合每平方米人民币10354元）。（业内人士最近对比了100万美元[约合人民币621万元]在不同地方的购买力：在纽约能买到2358平方英尺[约219平方米]的空间，而在底特律能买到83333平方英尺[约7742平方米]的空间。）
Also helpful will be the results, expected after March 31, of the $1.5 million Motor City Mapping survey. Popularly known as the “blight survey,” it is taking stock of the city’s 380,000 parcels, including an estimated 80,000 abandoned or vacant buildings, and will help determine which structures should be spared demolition.
此外，“汽车城测绘”(Motor City Mapping)的调查结果（预计5月31日后出炉）也会带来帮助。这项耗资150万美元（约合人民币932万元）的测绘项目，被人们称为“废墟调查”，它记录了本市38万块地皮，包括废弃或空置的建筑（据估计，其数量有8万座），进而帮助人们判定哪些建筑应该免于拆除。
Glenda D. Price, the survey project’s co-chairwoman, has said citywide demolition should take three years. But there are questions: Will Detroit have sufficient funds to complete it? And what happens next? Should huge swaths of inner city Detroit be turned over to developers, a prospect that some contend did not work well, for instance, in the South Bronx?
调查项目的联席主席格兰达·D·普莱斯(Glenda D. Price)曾说，全市范围的房屋拆除工作可能要花费三年时间。但问题是：底特律有没有足够资金，来完成拆除工作？接下来该怎么办？是否应该把大面积的底特律内城交给开发商来处置？（有些人认为这样做效果不好，纽约市的南布朗克斯[South Bronx]就是一例。）
Finally, could a preservation model be found in a modest project like Write A House and other small Detroit preservation projects? Among these are Power House Productions, an artist-run nonprofit that tries to stabilize neighborhoods by marketing vacant properties to create public art installations; and the Heidelberg Project, whose founder, Tyree Guyton, an artist, creates outdoor art environments to promote the notion of community on the city’s beleaguered East Side.
最后，我们能否在“写出一座屋”这类小规模的底特律保护项目上，摸索出一个建筑保护的模式来呢？Power House Productions和海德堡项目(Heidelberg Project)就是这样的例子。前者是一个由艺术家运营的非营利性组织，旨在营销空置地产，以建立公共艺术设施，进而维护社区稳定；后者的创始人、艺术家泰利·盖顿(Tyree Guyton)则致力于打造室外艺术环境，在深陷危机的底特律东区内营造社区氛围。
Emilie Evans, a preservation specialist with the National Trust for Historic Preservation who is on loan to the mapping survey, emphasizes that “not everything ‘historic’ is built by a famous person in an architecturally significant style.”
埃米莉·埃文斯(Emilie Evans)是全国文物保护信托基金会(National Trust for Historic Preservation)的保护专家，也是测绘调查项目的参与者。她强调，“所谓的‘历史’建筑，不一定非得是由名人建造、风格具有突出价值的建筑。”
“We’re talking about very humble, everyday houses that are keeping our neighborhoods and our blocks intact,” says Ms. Evans, whose team surveyed 18,000 historically “eligible” properties in Detroit.
“我们所讲的是非常平凡的日常住宅。正是它们使我们的居民区和街区保持了完整的状态，”埃文斯说。她的团队在底特律调查了1.8万处“符合资质的”历史房产。 
“What Write A House and Powerhouse Productions and other nonprofits” are doing, she says, “just fundamental rehabilitation on these properties, is phenomenal; they are keeping blocks intact.”
“‘写出一座屋’、Powerhouse Productions和其它非营利机构”所做的努力，她说，“就是从根本上重建这些房产，这很了不起；他们在维护街区的完整状态。”
Francis Grunow, a former urban planner in New York who has become a Detroit-based public policy consultant and Write A House board member, agrees. Building a literary arts community through the reclamation of vacant properties is, he acknowledges, a strikingly different approach to saving neighborhoods, but he views reclamation as positive.
弗朗西斯·格鲁诺(Francis Grunow)也持有相同看法。他曾在纽约做城市规划师，如今在底特律担任公共政策顾问，也是“写出一座屋”的理事会成员。他承认，通过空置建筑的再利用，来建立文学艺术社区，是一种极其非同寻常的拯救社区的做法，但他认为，这种方法是有积极意义的。
Could Write A House be replicated? “It remains to be seen,” Mr. Grunow admits. “But it’s definitely something people should follow, and if it’s successful, it could really be an interesting model for many places. The story is out there, and compelling.”
“写出一座屋”的模式可否被复制？“这还有待观察，”格鲁诺承认，“但这肯定是值得效仿的。一旦取得成功，它就真的会成为许多地方竞相效仿的有趣范本。它的故事实实在在地摆在那里，很有说服力。”
For now, the story, from the viewpoints of Mr. Barlow and Ms. Cox, is the crush of applications expected to arrive next month, in tandem with the bungalows’ renovation. Write A House’s goal is to make those structures 85 percent habitable, with writers living in them just three to four months hence.
对于巴洛和考克斯来说，当务之急是要应对下个月蜂拥而至的申请文件，同时做好那些小平房的修缮工作。“写出一座屋”的目标，是要让这些建筑的可居住率达到85%，而且要在三四个月内，就让作家住进去。
“We will be awarding each home simultaneously to the work we’ve done,” Mr. Barlow says firmly, “because we don’t want these homes to sit empty again.”
“我们会在配发住宅的同时做好修缮，”巴洛坚定地说，“因为我们不想再让这些住宅空置了。”