Nina Munk’s new book, “The Idealist,” is about the well-known economist Jeffrey Sachs and his “quest to end poverty,” as the subtitle puts it. I know: That subtitle sounds like classic book-industry hyperbole, but, in this case, it’s not. That really is what Sachs has been trying to do. The question of whether or not he is succeeding is where things get tricky.
尼娜·芒克(Nina Munk)的新书《理想主义者》(The Idealist)讲的是著名经济学家杰弗里·萨克斯(Jeffrey Sachs)和他“对消除贫困的追求”，正如书的副标题所示。我知道，这个副标题听起来像是出版业中典型的夸张之辞，但是，就这本书而言却非如此。那的确是萨克斯试图在做的事情。他是否在获得成功才是棘手的问题。
The quest began in 2005, when Sachs, who directs the Earth Institute at Columbia University, started an ambitious program called the Millennium Villages Project. He and his team chose a handful of sub-Saharan African villages, where they imposed a series of “interventions” in such areas as agriculture, health and education. The idea was that these villages would show Africa — and the world — how the continent could loosen the grip that extreme poverty had on so many of its people.
萨克斯是哥伦比亚大学地球研究所(Earth Institute at Columbia University)所长，他对消除贫困的追求始于2005年，当时他启动了一项雄心勃勃的计划，名为“千禧村项目”(Millennium Villages Project)。他和他的团队选择了撒哈拉以南非洲的几个村落，在那里实施农业、卫生和教育等方面的一系列“干预”行动。他们的想法是：这些村庄将向非洲乃至世界展示，这块大陆怎样才能摆脱极端贫困的枷锁，这种枷锁束缚了在那里居住的大多数人。
From the start, the Millennium Villages Project has been controversial. It has soaked up large sums of money — the original seed money was $120 million — which its critics believe could have been better used on more targeted, less grandiose forms of aid. Because Sachs, for years, refused — on ethical grounds, he said — to rigorously compare the results at his villages with villages that didn’t get the same kind of help, development experts complained that there was no way of knowing if the project was making a difference.
从一开始，千禧村项目就备受争议。它耗费了大量金钱——最初的种子资金是1.2亿美元（按现今汇率算约合人民币7.3亿元）。批评者们认为，这些资金可以用在更有针对性的、不那么耀眼的援助项目上。由于萨克斯多年来一直拒绝严格比较他的村庄和没有得到同类帮助的村庄的发展成果(他说那是出于道德上的考虑)，发展领域的专家们抱怨说，大家无从知晓该项目是否真有作用。
“There is zero scientific evidence that the Millennium Villages Project is meetings its goals,” says Michael Clemens, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development and a leading Sachs critic. Sachs, for his part, insists that the Millennium Villages Project has been a roaring success, so much so that its interventions are now being imitated — “scaled up” — in nations like Uganda, with full government support.
“千禧村项目实现了其目标的科学证据为零，”迈克尔·克莱门斯(Michael Clemens)说，他是全球发展中心(Center for Global Developmen)的资深研究员，也是萨克斯的主要批评者之一。而萨克斯站在自己的角度坚称，千禧村项目获得了巨大成功，以至于该项目的干预行动如今正在被模仿，在乌干达等国，在政府的帮助下得以“扩大规模”。
It is not quite right to say that Nina Munk has sidestepped the dispute between Sachs and his critics. Mainly, though, she has looked at the Millennium Villages Project through a different lens. She has spent the last half-dozen years traveling back and forth to Africa, to see for herself how the Sachs experiment was unfolding. She focused in particular on two villages: Dertu, Kenya, and Ruhiira, Uganda.
说尼娜·芒克回避了萨克斯及其批评者之间的争论也不完全对。不过，她主要从一个不同的角度来审视千禧村项目。过去六年间，她一次又一次地前往非洲，亲眼去看萨克斯的实验如何开展。她尤其关注了两个村庄：肯尼亚的德尔图(Dertu)和乌干达的卢西拉(Ruhiira)。
“Jeff is a charismatic man, and I wanted to believe in him,” Munk told me recently. (She and I overlapped at Fortune for several years.) She is quick to give him credit where it is due: for instance, his passionate advocacy for free distribution of insecticide-coated bed nets, at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars, is an important reason that the scourge of malaria is being reduced. But her reporting also caused her to become disillusioned, and humbled, by the difficulties that any Western aid effort is likely to encounter.
“杰夫是个很有魅力的人，我想相信他。”不久前芒克对我说（她和我曾在《财富》杂志共事数年）。她毫不犹豫地给予他应得的称赞，比如，他充满热情地倡导免费发送涂有杀虫剂的蚊帐，这个耗资数百万美元的做法，是肆虐当地的疟疾疫情正得到缓解的一个重要原因。但她的实地报道也让她看到所有西方援助工作都可能会遇到的困难，从而不再抱有幻想，也不再自以为是。
With almost every intervention, she documents the chasm that exists between the villagers and those running the project. At one point, the Millennium Villages Project persuades the farmers in Ruhiira to grow maize instead of their traditional crop, called matoke. “The results were fantastic,” she reports, a bumper crop. Except there were no buyers for the maize, so most of it wound up being eaten by rats. In Dertu, Sachs’s staff decided it should set up a livestock market. It flopped. Efforts to convince villagers to start small businesses largely failed. The critical problem of getting clean water to the villages was enormously expensive.
在几乎每一项干预行动上，她都看到了村民和项目运作者之间存在的鸿沟。千禧村项目曾一度劝说卢西拉的农民种植玉米，而不是当地传统作物青香蕉(matoke)。“结果太好了，”她写道，玉米获得了大丰收。问题是这些玉米没有买主，结果大部分被老鼠吃掉了。在德尔图，萨克斯的工作人员决定应该设立一个家畜市场。但这也以失败告终。说服村民做小生意的努力在很大程度上不成功。解决把干净的水送到村里这个关键问题的成本极高。
Ultimately, reports Munk, Dertu was abandoned by the Millennium Villages Project while Ruhiira is today lauded as one of the project’s most successful villages. “There is no question the lives of people in Ruhiira have been improved,” Munk told me. “I’ve seen it.” But she is dubious about what that means — other than the fact that if you pump millions of dollars into an isolated African village, the villagers’ lives will be better. (Sachs’s defenders say that most of her reporting was done before the project really found its footing.)
芒克报道说，最终，千禧村项目放弃了德尔图，而卢西拉如今被称赞为该项目最成功的试点村之一。“毫无疑问，卢西拉村民的生活得到了改善。”芒克告诉我，“那是我亲眼看到的。”但她不敢确定这种改善有什么意义，如果你给一个孤立的非洲村落注入数百万美元，那里村民的生活将会变得更好，除此之外还能怎样。（萨克斯的捍卫者说，她的报道大部分都是在该项目站稳脚跟之前做的）。
And there’s the rub. Sachs has always aimed higher than helping a handful of villages. He wants to put his imprint on all of Africa. When I spoke to him recently, he claimed that is exactly what has been happening, thanks to more than $100 million in loans from the Islamic Development Bank. But when I looked at the press release announcing the “scale up” in Uganda, the money involved was less than $10 million — a pittance, really, and unlikely to transform the country.
这就是问题所在。萨克斯的目标从来都比这更高，他不只想帮助少数村庄。他想在整个非洲留下他的印记。不久前我跟他交谈时，他说那就是已经开始发生的事情，多亏伊斯兰发展银行(Islamic Development Bank)提供的逾1亿美元的贷款。但是当我去看新闻发布时，发现乌干达“扩大规模”所涉及的资金不到1000万美元，这笔钱其实很少，不大可能转变该国的面貌。
That things in Africa are getting better is undeniable. Child mortality is down, as is the number of people living in extreme poverty. In his book, “Emerging Africa,” Steve Radalet, the former chief economist for the United States Agency for International Development, gives credit to such factors as more democratic governments, a new class of civil servants and businesspeople, and sounder economic policies. Sachs, on the other hand, wants us to believe that the main driver has been the Millennium Villages Project, which has shown the way.
非洲的状况正在改善，这一点不可否认。儿童死亡率下降了，极端贫困人口的数量也有所减少。美国国际开发署(United States Agency for International Development)的前首席经济学家史蒂夫·拉德莱特(Steve Radelet)在其著作《新兴的非洲》(Emerging Africa)中，将这些归功于更民主的政府、由公务员和商人构成的新阶层，以及更合理的经济政策。不过，萨克斯却希望我们相信，千禧村项目才是非洲状况改善的主要推动力，因为它给大家展示了道路。
“The Idealist” makes it tough to believe it’s the latter.
《理想主义者》这本书让我们很难相信原因是后者。