Locked behind glass, illuminated like a jewel, lies an Hermès Birkin — totem of wealth, bestower of status, and one seriously expensive handbag.
一个爱马仕柏金包(Hermès Birkin)被锁在玻璃柜里，像珠宝一样被照亮——这款非常昂贵的手袋是财富和地位的象征。
This particular specimen is a coveted Hermès White Himalayan Birkin, dyed in brown and beige crocodile. Gently, if ever, used, it is offered at $115,000.
这个手袋是很多人梦寐以求的爱马仕白色喜马拉雅柏金包，它是用棕色和米色鳄鱼皮染制而成的。就算被用过，也是非常小心，它的价格是11.5万美元。
Wait — used?
等一下——它是二手的？
That word is never spoken, not here inside the hushed Midtown Manhattan showroom of Heritage Auctions. The preferred term is “rare” or “vintage” — in this case, applied to a handbag made all the way back in 2013.
从来没人用过“二手”这个词，至少在遗产拍卖公司(Heritage Auctions)曼哈顿中城安静的展厅里没人这么说过。他们更喜欢用“稀有”或“复古”这样的词——在这里，这些词是用来描述一只2013年生产的手袋。
No one, it is said, knows more about the buying and selling of pre-owned Hermès bags than Matthew Rubinger, Heritage’s Birkin whisperer. But now Mr. Rubinger, 26, has left for another more famous auction house — Christie’s International — and the battle of the Birkins has begun.
据说，没人比遗产拍卖公司的柏金包行家马修·鲁宾格(Matthew Rubinger)更了解二手爱马仕手袋的买卖情况。但是现在26岁的鲁宾格离开了该公司，去了一个更著名的拍卖公司——佳士得国际拍卖公司(Christie’s International)——关于柏金包的战斗开始了。
Heritage on Friday filed a lawsuit against Christie’s, claiming Mr. Rubinger breached his contract and stole trade secrets. Christie’s, whose auctions tend to run more to Picasso than purses, is expanding its push into high-end accessories, Heritage’s sweet spot. Heritage is seeking a Birkinesque $60 million in damages and lost profits from Christie’s, Mr. Rubinger and two other former employees.
周五遗产拍卖公司起诉佳士得公司，称鲁宾格违反合同，窃取商业秘密。佳士得更多的是拍卖毕加索名画这样的艺术品，而不是手袋，但它正在把自己的业务范围向高端配饰扩展，而这正是遗产拍卖公司的强项。遗产拍卖公司要求佳士得拍卖公司、鲁宾格和另外两名前雇员因柏金包赔偿6000万美元的损害费和利益损失费。
A spokeswoman for Christie’s said, “We have reviewed the complaint and find it to be wholly without merit. We are prepared to vigorously defend these claims and Christie’s decision to expand our existing handbag department.” Mr. Rubinger did not respond to an email.
佳士得的发言人说，“我们看了诉状，发现它完全没有法律依据。我们准备大力反驳这些索赔请求，维护佳士得扩张现有的手袋部门的决定。”鲁宾格没有回复邮件。
The brouhaha partly reflects how the world’s wealthy are spending their money. But it also underscores how Christie’s and its traditional rival, Sotheby’s, are coming under pressure. While art prices keep rising, competition among auction houses has squeezed commissions. Daniel S. Loeb, a hedge fund manager who owns 9.6 percent of Sotheby’s, got a seat on the company’s board after attacking Sotheby’s executives for, among other things, giving up profit.
这场风波部分反映了这世界上的有钱人是怎么花钱的。但是它也突显出佳士得和它的老对手苏富比(Sotheby’s)正面临的压力。虽然艺术品的价格在不断上升，但是拍卖公司之间的竞争压缩了佣金。对冲基金经理丹尼尔·S·勒布(Daniel S. Loeb)拥有苏富比9.6%的份额，他在批评苏富比的主管们放弃利润等问题后进入了董事会。
For Heritage, the flourishing designer handbag market has produced record sales and big profits. At a Heritage auction in late 2011, a brilliant red crocodile Hermès Birkin, with 18-karat white-gold and diamond-encrusted hardware, sold for a record $203,000. Last December, a one-of-a-kind Hermès Kelly bag, in porosus crocodile and black Togo leather, with geranium-colored feet, went for $125,000.
对遗产拍卖公司来说，繁荣的名牌手袋市场创造了销售记录和巨额利润。在2011年底遗产拍卖公司的一次拍卖会上，一个亮红色鳄鱼皮爱马仕柏金包——金属部分镶着18K白金和钻石——以打破记录的20.3万美元的价格卖出。去年12月，用湾鳄鱼皮和黑多哥皮做成的独一无二的爱马仕凯莉包(Hermès Kelly)以12.5万美元卖出。
Hermès International has ensured demand by limiting production at its atelier in the Pantin suburb northeast of Paris. There, workers take fine cuts of leather and exotic skins and transform them with meticulous detail, buffing the hides with an agate stone. The whispered wait lists — Who gets on? Is it really three years? — add to the mystique.
爱马仕国际公司在巴黎东北部潘廷郊区的工作室限量生产手袋，以此保证市场需求。工人们精心剪切优质或罕见的皮料，小心翼翼地组装，用玛瑙宝石抛光兽皮。秘而不宣的轮候名单更增加了神秘感——谁排上了？真的只用等三年吗？
Heritage executives say that while Hermès frowns on reselling its handbags, Hermès has directed buyers to Heritage’s door.
遗产拍卖公司的主管们说，虽然爱马仕不赞成转售它的手袋，但是它也向买家们引介遗产拍卖公司。
“Our buyers tend to seek immediate gratification,” said Kathleen Guzman, a managing director of Heritage’s offices in New York. The high-end handbags are sought by collectors and even investors, say Heritage executives, who estimate the average buyer has a net worth of $12 million.
“我们的买家们喜欢马上得到满足，”爱马仕纽约办事处的主管凯思琳·古兹曼(Kathleen Guzman)说。遗产拍卖公司的主管们说，收藏者们甚至投资者们寻找这些高端手袋。他们估计买家们的平均净资产为1200万美元。
“If you buy one Hermès bag for $20,000, depending on the popularity, the skin, the color, the size, you can resell it down the road for an average of 60 percent to 150 percent of what you paid for it,” Gregory Rohan, the president of Heritage, said in a phone interview Thursday from Paris.
“如果你花2万美元买了一个爱马仕包，过一段时间之后，根据它的受欢迎程度、皮料、颜色和大小，你可以以购买价格的60%或150%把它转卖掉，”遗产拍卖公司的总裁格雷戈里·罗翰(Gregory Rohan)周四在巴黎接受电话采访时说。
Four years ago, the luxury accessories category did not even exist. Then Mr. Rohan met Mr. Rubinger, a recent graduate of Vanderbilt University. In high school, Mr. Rubinger started buying and reselling inexpensive purses. Later, he moved into designer bags for sale on eBay, with his bedroom as operations center.
四年前，奢侈配饰品这个类别还不存在。后来，罗翰遇到了鲁宾格，后者当时刚从范德比尔特大学毕业。高中时，鲁宾格开始购买和转卖便宜的手袋。后来，他开始在eBay上卖名牌手袋，他的卧室就是运营中心。
“To make more, to scale what I was doing, I had to move up in price point,” Mr. Rubinger recalled in an interview this spring at Heritage’s offices in New York.
“为了挣得更多，扩大规模，我必须提高价格点，”今年春天鲁宾格在遗产拍卖公司的纽约办事处接受采访时回忆说。
At the end of his first year at Vanderbilt, Mr. Rubinger became a summer intern at the online resale hub DropShop, the precursor to the retail website Portero, which was then based in Armonk, N.Y, a suburb north of Manhattan, and near Mr. Rubinger’s childhood home in Chappaqua.
鲁宾格在范德比尔特大学大一结束后，在在线转售网站DropShop做暑期实习生。DropShop是零售网站Portero的前身，当时位于曼哈顿北部的阿蒙克，离鲁宾格儿时位于查巴克的家不远。
He stayed more than a year and began its luxury category, which grew to be the company’s second-strongest seller, after timepieces.
他在那里待了一年多后，开设了奢侈品类别，它成长为该公司的第二大类别，仅次于钟表类。
In 2010, a mutual friend introduced Mr. Rubinger to Mr. Rohan. They met at the Carlyle Hotel on the Upper East Side.
2010年，一个共同的朋友把鲁宾格介绍给了罗翰。他们在上东区的卡莱尔酒店会面。
“He started to tell me what he was doing and I thought, ‘Gosh, this is a perfect complement to what we already have,’ ” Mr. Rohan said.
“他开始跟我说他在做的事情，我心想, ‘天哪，这是对我们已有类别的完美补充,’”罗翰说。 
Put in charge of Heritage’s luxury accessories business, Mr. Rubinger was given the star treatment. In its lawsuit, Heritage says it invested in his identity, seeking to brand him as a “star”; provided him with training and introduction to sources in Hong Kong and Japan; and shared all of Heritage’s corporate plans for expansion and branding, even beyond luxury accessories.
遗产拍卖公司让鲁宾格主管奢侈配饰品生意，对他给予明星待遇。遗产拍卖公司在诉讼中说它对他的身份进行了投资，努力把他打造成一个“明星”，给他提供培训，给他介绍香港和日本的资源，分享该公司所有的扩张和品牌推广计划，不仅限于奢侈配饰品部分。
With an annual growth rate of more than 50 percent, the luxury accessories category was seen within Heritage as especially promising. So much so that Mr. Rohan made the area his primary focus and had his New York office divided so that he and Mr. Rubinger could be closer to collaborate, the lawsuit states.
奢侈配饰品类的年增长率超过了50%，遗产拍卖公司认为这是个非常有前途的类别。讼状中说，罗翰把这个领域作为他的主要关注点，把它的纽约办公室分开，以更靠近鲁宾格，便于协作。
When asked if he was grooming Mr. Rubinger to take a bigger role, or if he viewed him as a protégé, Mr. Rohan, grew quiet.
当被问及他是想把鲁宾格培养成一个更重要的角色，还是把他视为一个门徒，罗翰沉默了。
“I thought he was a close, personal friend. We socialized. We had lunch and dinners together frequently. We collaborated on everything,” said Mr. Rohan, 52. “Honestly, my wife and I don’t have children, and I thought of him as a son.”
“我把他看做一个亲密的私人朋友。我们一起社交。我们经常一起吃午餐和晚餐。我们在所有的事情上合作，”52岁的罗翰说，“坦白地说，我和妻子没有孩子，我把他当儿子看待。”
At 8:45 a.m. on Monday, May 19, Mr. Rohan answered his phone at his home in Dallas. On the other end was Mr. Rubinger, saying he had left to take a job at Christie’s. Within the next hour, two other high-level associates announced that they, too, were leaving.
5月19日周一上午8点45分，罗翰在达拉斯家中接到电话。电话那端是鲁宾格，他说他已经离开该公司去佳士得工作了。在接下来的一小时内，另外两位高级合伙人也宣布他们要离开了。
Without warning, Heritage’s entire luxury accessories team had walked out the door.
事先没有任何提醒，遗产拍卖公司的整个奢侈配饰品团队突然离开了。
But in its suit, Heritage claims Mr. Rubinger, in the week before he left, sought and received permission for one of the associates who departed with him to attend an executive meeting and gain access to confidential strategic plans.
但是在诉讼中，遗产拍卖公司称，鲁宾格在离开前一周，请求并得到和他一起离开的一位合伙人的同意，参加了一次主管会议，接触到了机密战略计划。
“While certainly other auction companies, including Christie’s, have held estate sales that might have a Kelly bag in it or had an online auction that sold a modest amount of handbags, we elevated the collection of handbags to a place nobody had done it before,” Mr. Rohan said. “We created a dynamic worldwide market that everyone would like to own.”
“虽然其他拍卖公司，包括佳士得，肯定也有资产拍卖，其中可能包括凯莉包，或者其在线拍卖会也销售一定数量的手袋，但是我们把手袋收藏提升到了一个前所未有的位置，”罗翰说，“我们创造了一个谁都想拥有的活跃的全球市场。”