For roughly a century, the painting “Sunset at Montmajour” was considered a fake. It was stored in an attic and then held in a private collection, unknown to the public and dismissed by art historians. But on Monday, the Van Gogh Museum declared the work a genuine product of the master, calling it a major discovery.
阿姆斯特丹——大约一个世纪以来，《蒙马儒的落日》(Sunset at Montmajour)一直被认为是赝品。它被储藏在阁楼里，然后被私人收藏，不为公众所知，被艺术史学家摒弃。但是周一梵高博物馆(the Van Gogh Museum)宣布这幅画是梵高这位大师的真迹，称它为一个重大发现。
“Sunset at Montmajour,” painted in Arles in 1888, “is a work from the most important period of his life, when he created his substantial masterpieces, like ‘Sunflowers,’ ‘The Yellow House’ and ‘The Bedroom,’ ” said the museum’s director, Axel Rüger, in an interview. The painting depicts dusk in the hilly, forested landscape of Montmajour, in Provence, with wheat fields and the ruins of a Benedictine abbey in the distance. The area around Montmajour was a subject that van Gogh revisited often during his time in Arles.
该博物馆的馆长阿克塞尔·吕格尔(Axel Rüger)在采访中说，《蒙马儒的落日》是梵高1888年在阿尔勒创作的，“是在他生命中最重要的时期创作的，那个时期他创作了大量经典之作，比如《向日葵》(Sunflowers)、《黄色的房子》(The Yellow House)和《卧室》(The Bedroom)”。这幅画描绘了普罗旺斯蒙马儒丛林丘陵的黄昏，远处有麦田和一个本笃会修道院的遗迹。蒙马儒附近的区域是梵高在阿尔勒生活时经常创作的主题。
“One or two early van Goghs do sometimes come out of the woodwork now and again, but from the mature period, it’s very rare,” said James Roundell, an art dealer and the director of modern pictures for the Dickinson galleries in London and New York, which deals in Impressionist and modern art.
“时不时地会冒出一两件梵高的早期作品，但是极少出现他成熟时期的作品，”艺术商詹姆斯·朗德尔(James Roundell)说。他是伦敦和纽约的迪金森(Dickinson)画廊的现代画总监，该画廊经营印象派和现代艺术作品。
Mr. Roundell said it would be hard to predict precisely how much “Sunset at Montmajour” would fetch on the market, but expected it would be “in the tens of millions and quite a few of them.”
朗德尔说很难准确预测《蒙马儒的落日》能在市场上卖到多高的价钱，但是估计会“数以千万计”。
He added, “It’s not the iconic status of something like the ‘Sunflowers,’ or the ‘Portrait of Dr. Gachet,’ ” which sold at auction for $82.5 million in 1990.
他补充说，“它不像《向日葵》或《加谢先生的画像》(Portrait of Dr. Gachet)那样具有标志性的地位”，后者1990年在拍卖会上卖出了8250万美元的高价。
Fred Leeman, a former chief curator of the museum and now an independent art historian and van Gogh scholar based here, said the work, which he called “100 percent genuine,” contributes to an alternative understanding of the artist. “We have the impression of van Gogh as a very modern painter, but here he’s working in the tradition of 19th-century landscape painting,” he said.
弗雷德·利曼(Fred Leeman)是该博物馆的前任总策展人，现在阿姆斯特丹做独立艺术史学家和梵高学者。他说这件作品“是百分百的真品”，有助于从另一个角度理解这位艺术家。“我们印象中梵高是个非常现代的画家，但是他在这部作品中采用的是19世纪风景绘画的传统手法。”
The painting has been in the collection of a family for several years, and Mr. Rüger said that because of privacy concerns, he couldn’t release any more information about the owners.
这幅画被一个家庭收藏了几年，吕格尔说出于隐私方面的考虑，他不能透露更多关于该画主人们的信息。
Until 1901, the painting was in the collection once owned by van Gogh’s brother, Theo, said Marije Vellekoop, the head of collections, research and presentation for the museum. His widow, Johanna van Gogh-Bonger, sold it to a Paris art dealer. In 1908, the art dealer sold it to a Norwegian collector, Ms. Vellekoop said. Shortly after that, she added, “it was declared a fake, or not an original,” and the Norwegian collector banished it to his attic, where it stayed until he died in 1970. The current owners purchased it thereafter.
该博物馆的收藏、研究和展示总监玛丽耶·维利库普(Marije Vellekoop)说，直到1901年，这幅画一直在梵高弟弟西奥(Theo)的藏品之中。他的遗孀乔安娜·梵高-邦格(Johanna van Gogh-Bonger)把它卖给了巴黎的一个艺术商。维利库普说，1908年这个艺术商把它卖给了挪威的一个收藏家。她补充说，不久之后，“它被宣布为赝品，不是真迹，”那位挪威收藏家就把它丢到了阁楼上，直到他1970年去世那幅画一直待在那里。之后，现在的主人们买下了它。
They took it to the Van Gogh Museum in 1991, Mr. Rüger said, but at the time, experts there said they did not think it was authentic. Two years ago, the owners took it back to the museum, and researchers from the museum have been examining it ever since, Mr. Rüger said. Louis van Tilborgh, the museum’s senior researcher, said that since 1991, the museum has developed several new techniques for identifying and authenticating works of art. He said that all those methods were put to use when researchers had the chance to look at this painting again.
吕格尔说，1991年他们把它拿到了梵高博物馆，但是当时的专家们不认为它是真品。两年前，主人们把它带回了博物馆，博物馆的研究员们自那以后一直在研究它。该博物馆的高级研究员路易斯·范·提尔伯格(Louis van Tilborgh)说，1991年之后，该博物馆开发出了几个新的识别和鉴定艺术品真伪的方法。他说，研究员们有机会再次审视这幅画的时候，他们把所有这些方法都用上了。
According to Mr. van Tilborgh, it was painted on the same type of canvas with the same type of underpainting van Gogh used for at least one other painting of the same area, “The Rocks.” The work was also listed as part of Theo van Gogh’s collection in 1890. It has “180” painted on the back, which corresponds to the number in the collection inventory. “That was the clincher,” he said.
据范·提尔伯格说，这幅画用的画布和底色至少跟梵高创作《岩石》(The Rocks)时用过的一模一样，后者描绘的是同一地区的景色。这幅画也在1890年西奥·梵高的藏品之中。画作背后写着“180”，这跟当时这幅画在藏品目录中的编号一样。“那是铁证，”他说。
Mr. Rüger added: “This time, we have topographical information, plus a number of other factors that have helped us to establish authenticity. Research is so much more advanced now, so we could come to a very different conclusion.” The last major van Gogh brought to light, the museum said, was the 1888 painting “Tarascon Stage Coach,” in the 1930s. The date of “Sunset at Montmajour” has been identified as July 4, 1888. In a letter van Gogh wrote to his brother the next day, he seemed to have described the scene:
吕格尔补充说：“这一次，我们有地形信息和其他几个因素帮助我们确定真伪。现在的研究方法进步了很多，所以我们能得出非常不同的结论。”该博物馆说，上一个被确定为梵高真迹的重要作品是20世纪30年代公布的1888年的画作《塔拉斯孔公共马车》(Tarascon Stage Coach)。《蒙马儒的落日》的创作日期被认定为1888年7月4日。在第二天梵高写给弟弟的信中，他似乎描述了那个场景：
“Yesterday, at sunset, I was on a stony heath, where very small, twisted oaks grow, in the background a ruin on the hill, and wheat fields in the valley. It was romantic, it couldn’t be more so, à la Monticelli, the sun was pouring its very yellow rays over the bushes and the ground, absolutely a shower of gold. And all the lines were beautiful; the whole scene had charming nobility.” (He was referring to the works of Adolphe Monticelli, one of the first painters van Gogh admired when he moved to Paris in 1886, and who played a role in van Gogh’s decision to move to Provence.)
“昨天日落之时，我在一个多石的荒野上，那里长满了矮小扭曲的橡树，远方的山上有一处遗迹，山谷里有麦田。太浪漫了，简直不能再浪漫了，在蒙蒂塞利的画中，太阳向灌木和大地喷射着金色的光芒，一切都笼罩在金色之中。所有的线条都很美；整个景象有一种迷人的高贵感。”（他提到的是阿道夫·蒙蒂塞利[Adolphe Monticelli]的作品，他是梵高1886年搬到巴黎时最先仰慕的画家之一，梵高决定搬往普罗旺斯与他有一定的关系。）
“Sunset at Montmajour” is comparable in size to “Sunflowers,” which was painted the same year and sold for $39.9 million in 1987 at an auction at Christie’s in London.
《蒙马儒的落日》的大小与《向日葵》差不多，后者是在同一年创作的，在1987年伦敦佳士得的拍卖会上以3990万美元售出。
Van Gogh moved to Arles in February 1888 and spent time exploring the landscapes in Provence, and doing work “en plein air,” or in nature. He was particularly fascinated by the flat landscape around the hill of Montmajour, with its rocky outcroppings and hay-colored fields.
梵高1888年2月搬往阿尔勒，在普罗旺斯的山野间留连，完全在户外或者说在大自然中作画。他对蒙马儒山附近平坦的地势以及星星点点的石头和干草色的田野特别着迷。
In a letter dated July 1888, he said that he had been to Montmajour at least 50 times “to see the view over the plain.”
在1888年7月的一封信中，他说他去蒙马儒至少去了50次，“去欣赏那里平原上的风景”。
Mr. Leeman, the historian, said that “in hindsight, many pointers in his letters and entries in catalogs of the 1900s have been linked to other paintings or misidentified,” adding, “Here, we see a painting that fits those descriptions exactly.”
历史学家利曼说，“现在回头看，他信中提到的很多要点，以及20世纪目录中的许多条目被指向了其他画作，或者说被指向了错误的画作”。他补充说，“现在我们看到了和那些描述完全吻合的一幅画。”
The painting will be on view at the museum for one year, starting on Sept. 24, as part of the current exhibition, “Van Gogh at Work,” which focuses on other new discoveries about the painter’s artistic development. Mr. Rüger said the current owners have not indicated what they intend to do with it after that.
从9月24日起，这幅画将在博物馆中展出一年，作为正在举办的“工作中的梵高”(Van Gogh at Work)展览的一部分，这次展览重点展示这位画家艺术发展的其他一些新发现。吕格尔说这幅画的现任主人们还没表示之后他们将如何处置这幅画。