It was 3 a.m. when Sunny Jo’s smartphone began insistently sounding with Facebook notifications, alerting him that his name was being mentioned.
凌晨三点，逊尼·乔(Sunny Jo)的智能手机开始响个不停——是Facebook不断发来通知，提醒他有人提到了他的名字。
Ping. Ping. Ping.
叮。叮。叮。
For Mr. Jo, a photographer from Hazleton, Pa., the alerts on a Saturday last month were his first hint that a picture he had retouched for a grieving mother in North Carolina was gaining widespread attention on social media.
乔是一名来自宾夕法尼亚州黑泽尔顿的摄影师。上个月一个周六的晚上，他收到那些提醒的时候，第一次意识到自己为北卡罗莱纳州一名悲伤的母亲润饰的一张图片在社交媒体上得到了广泛关注。
But the attention, it turned out, was for the worst reasons possible.
但事实证明，这种关注源于糟糕得不能再糟糕的理由。
The mother, Jeanie K. Ditty of Spring Lake, N.C., had contacted Mr. Jo a month after her 2-year-old daughter, Macy, died on Dec. 4, 2015.
那位母亲名叫珍妮·K·迪蒂(Jeanie K. Ditty)，住在北卡罗莱纳州的斯普林莱克。她2岁大的女儿梅西于2015年12月4日去世。一个月后，她和乔取得了联系。
Mr. Jo, 22, offers a service, “One More Time,” in which he adds a superimposed image of a dead loved one into a photograph of a surviving family member. He said in an interview that the retouched photos were a way to bring comfort to grieving relatives and to reunite them with their loved ones.
乔提供一项名为“重新来过”(One More Time)的服务，可以把逝者的影像嵌入痛失所爱的逝者家人的照片中。他接受采访时说，这种合成的照片可以给悲伤的家属带来慰藉，把他们和至亲重新联结起来。
Ms. Ditty sent three photos of herself at a cemetery, and Mr. Jo photoshopped faded images of Macy in an aura of light next to or walking with her mother.
迪蒂发来了她在一座墓园里的三张照片，乔使用Photoshop的淡入功能，把带着光晕的梅西(Macy)的影像加了进去，让她待在妈妈身旁，或者跟妈妈一起散步。
“To me, she seemed like a grieving mother,” he said. Touched by her circumstances, he said he did about $500 worth of retouching work for free.
“当时在我看来，她是一个悲伤的母亲，”乔说。由于被迪蒂的境遇打动，乔说自己免费为她提供了价值约为500美元的照片合成服务。
But Mr. Jo said he was stunned to learn March 26 that Ms. Ditty, 23, and her boyfriend, Zachary E. Keefer, 32, had been charged in what the authorities said was the beating death of Macy.
然而，乔在3月26日得知，23岁的迪蒂及其32岁的男友扎卡里·E·基弗(Zachary E. Keefer)遭到指控。当局称，两人将梅西殴打致死。他说自己听到这个消息后大吃一惊。
Ms. Ditty had posted the retouched photos “everywhere” Mr. Jo said, and they were widely cited in news accounts about her murder charges. The result, he said, was thousands of mentions of his name on Facebook.
乔说，迪蒂把合成照片发得“到处都是”，而且很多媒体在报道对她的谋杀指控时都提到那些照片。结果就是，他说，自己的名字在 Facebook被提及了成千上万次。
“I’ve gotten a lot of hate because of this,” he said. “The amount of backlash is just terrible.”
“因此有太多人恨我，”他说。“那些激烈的反应多得可怕。”
Mr. Jo said Ms. Ditty told him through Facebook’s Messenger that she gave her daughter a banana and that Macy began choking on it and then choked on her own vomit, cutting off oxygen to her brain.
乔说迪蒂通过Facebook的Messenger告诉他，她给了女儿一个香蕉，梅西先是被香蕉噎住，然后被自己的呕吐物噎住，导致大脑缺氧而死。
But the police in Fayetteville, N.C., painted a different picture of what happened.
不过，北卡罗来纳州费耶特维尔的警方对事情的经过做出了截然不同的描述。
Police officers responded on Dec. 2, 2015, to Cape Fear Valley Medical Center to a report of an unresponsive child. Members of the medical staff found bruises all over Macy’s body and determined she had suffered life-threatening injuries consistent with child abuse, the police said.
2015年12月25日，警方根据开普菲尔谷医疗中心(Cape Fear Valley Medical Center)提交的一份与儿童丧失意识有关的报告采取了行动。警方称，医疗中心的工作人员发现梅西的身体布满伤痕，认定她遭受了危及生命的伤害，与虐待儿童的情形相符。
After further evaluation, it was determined that her injuries appeared to have been inflicted within 24 hours of her arrival at the medical center, the police said.
警方称，经过进一步评估，可以认定梅西看来是在抵达医疗中心之前的24小时内受伤的。
Macy died just 10 days shy of her third birthday.
在还有10天就要过3岁生日的时候，梅西离开了人世。
Ms. Ditty and Mr. Keefer are each charged with first-degree murder and felony child abuse.
迪蒂和基弗均被控一级谋杀和严重虐待儿童的罪名。
“It’s very hard for the family on all sides of the fence,” said Bernard P. Condlin, the chief public defender in Cumberland County, N.C., who is representing Ms. Ditty.
“不论从哪个方面来看，这个家庭都过得很艰难，”迪蒂的代理律师、北卡罗莱纳州坎伯兰县首席公设辩护人伯纳德·P·康德林(Bernard P. Condlin)说。
Charges were filed months after Macy died because the police were awaiting a report from the chief medical examiner, who ruled her death a homicide.
指控在梅西死亡数月后才被提起，因为警方要等待首席验尸官出具报告。验尸官判定，梅西死于他杀。
“Right now, we are still in kind of a fact-finding posture because we don’t know what happened to the baby,” Mr. Condlin said, adding that his office is awaiting a formal report on Macy’s cause of death.
“我们现在仍然处于事实调查阶段，因为我们并不知道这个宝宝经历了什么，”康德林表示。他还说，他的办公室正在等待鉴定梅西死因的正式报告出炉。
He said Ms. Ditty was being held in the Cumberland County Detention Center on a high bond amount. He said Mr. Keefer had yet to be assigned a lawyer.
他说迪蒂关押在坎伯兰县拘禁中心(Cumberland County Detention Center)，保释金非常高；基弗正在等待当局为他指派律师。
Tina Goodwin, 46, of Enterprise, Ala., who is Macy’s paternal grandmother, said the family had seen no hint of trouble.
46岁的蒂娜·古德温(Tina Goodwin)是梅西的祖母，住在阿拉巴马州恩特普赖斯。她说此前并没有丝毫迹象显示梅西家有什么麻烦。
Ms. Goodwin’s son is Kevin C. Ditty, Macy’s father. He and Ms. Ditty were married in 2012. He is a sergeant in the United States Army who is now at Fort Bragg, N.C., but had served overseas for much of his daughter’s life, Ms. Goodwin said.
古德温之子凯文·C·迪蒂(Kevin C. Ditty)是梅西的生父。他和迪蒂在2012年结婚。古德温说他是一名美国陆军中士，目前在北卡罗来纳州的布拉格堡，但女儿在世时，他大部分时间在海外服役。
Ms. Ditty was enlisted in the Army from June 2011 through November 2012. She enlisted again in April 2015 and is on active duty with a status of “confined by civil authorities,” according to an Army spokeswoman.
迪蒂曾于2011年6月至2012年11月在陆军服役。一名军方女发言人称，2015年4月，她再次入伍，目前是一名“受文职当局拘押”的现役军人。
Ms. Goodwin said she was walking in the door with her granddaughter’s birthday gifts when her son called with the news that Macy was in the hospital on life support.
古德温说，当她拿着买给孙女的生日礼物进门的时候，她儿子打电话说，梅西躺在医院里，靠机器维持生命。
“This is a 2-year-old baby that got the life beaten out of her for no reason at all,” said Ms. Goodwin. “We’ll know the how, the what, the when, but we’ll never know the why.”
“一个两岁的宝宝，毫无来由地被人夺走了生命，”古德温说。“我们知道经过、结果、时间，但我们永远也不会知道原因。”
Macy’s great-aunt, Michelle Smith, set up a Facebook page, Justiceformacy, to call attention to the case and child abuse.
梅西的姑婆米歇尔·史密斯( Michelle Smith)在Facebook上创建了一个名为“还梅西公道”(Justiceformacy)的页面，呼吁人们关注这个案子，关注受虐待的儿童。
As for the retouched photos that Ms. Ditty had done, Ms. Goodwin said of her daughter-in-law: “She was mocking that baby’s death. She honestly thought she was getting away with that baby’s death. She showed more attention to that baby in her death than when that baby was alive.”
至于迪蒂找人合成的那些照片，古德温对她儿媳妇的评价是：“她在嘲笑宝宝的死。她真的以为能和宝宝的死撇清关系。她在宝宝死后表现出来的关心，比她生前还要多。”
For Mr. Jo, the attention has put an unexpected harsh spotlight on his work.
对于乔而言，这样的关注让他的工作受到了出乎意料的苛责。
He said his “One More Time” service, which he began about a year ago, accounts for up to 50 percent of his business. “I haven’t worked in five days,” he said in a telephone interview last week.
他在大约一年前开始提供“重新来过”服务，自称最多可以占到其业务量的一半。“我五天没干活了，”他上周接受电话采访时说。
The idea for the service was born after his father died of lung cancer in 2012. Mr. Jo was at his father’s grave and asked his brother to take a photograph of him after feeling his father’s presence at the site.
这项服务诞生于他的父亲2012年因肺癌去世之后。乔当时在父亲的墓地，感受到他就在那里，于是让兄弟拍了一张自己的照片。
Mr. Jo later took the photo and photoshopped an image of his father standing behind him. For five months he did nothing with the photo but, he said, when he posted it to Facebook, it was met with an outpouring of interest.
后来，乔拿了这张照片，用修图软件Photoshop把父亲的图像加到了他的身后。他说自己一直没管这张图片，直到五个月后把它放到了Facebook上，迎来了如潮的兴趣。
Mr. Jo said from what he had seen, this kind of commemorative photography service was not widely offered but it was gaining in popularity. Mr. Jo said he was inspired by the artist Charles L. Peterson, whose work features “transparent townsfolk or people in the background.”
乔表示，在他看来，这种纪念图片服务不太常见，但越来越受欢迎。乔说，艺术家查尔斯·L·彼得森(Charles L. Peterson)的作品“在背景中融入了透明的村民或人物”，给了自己启发。
“Spiritual photography” has its roots dating to the 1860s. William Mumler, a Boston and New York photographer whose works had ghostly images appearing in the background, was the first known practitioner of the craft. His patrons included Mary Todd Lincoln, who visited him after her husband’s assassination.
“灵魂摄影”的源头可以追溯到19世纪60年代。这项技术为人所知的首位实践者是威廉·穆姆勒(William Mumler)。这名摄影师在波士顿和纽约生活，一些作品的背景里有鬼魅般的影像。他的主顾包括亚伯拉罕·林肯的遗孀玛丽·托德·林肯(Mary Todd Lincoln)。丈夫遇刺后，她拜访了穆姆勒。