LONDON —As an agglomeration of about 500 million people who speak at least two dozen tongues, the European Union is no stranger to disputes over language.
伦敦——欧盟有大约5亿的人口，至少使用20多种语言，所以对于语言方面的争执，欧盟并不感到陌生。
But three short words could determine whether it faces perhaps the biggest rift in its history.
但一个简单的短语，却可能将决定欧盟是否要面临其历史上最大的一次分裂。
Fresh from its struggles to contain the crisis over Greece, the European Union is seeking to head off the threat of a British exit from the bloc, a move that would go against decades of progress in knitting its members closer together.
欧盟刚刚才艰难地遏制了希腊危机，眼下又要面对英国退出欧盟的威胁。为了让各成员国更加紧密地联系在一起，欧盟付出了几十年的努力，如果英国退出，就会破坏这些成果。
As part of its price for staying, Britain wants an end to a pledge, written into treaties and held dear by advocates of European integration, to strive for an “ever closer union.”
要想英国留下，欧盟需要撤销一个被写进了条约、也受到了欧洲一体化倡导者衷心支持的承诺：努力实现一个“日益紧密的联盟”。
The change is one of the central demands of Prime Minister David Cameron, who has promised to secure a “better deal” for Britain from the European Union before holding a referendum by the end of 2017 on whether to drop out.
这是英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)提出的主要要求之一。他已承诺，要在2017年就“英国是否退出欧盟”举行全民公投之前，在欧盟为英国争取到“更好的条件”。
Mr. Cameron was due to discuss his wish list of changes with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany in Berlin on Wednesday and with other European Union leaders at a summit meeting in Brussels on Thursday and Friday.
卡梅伦定于周三在柏林与德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)讨论他的要求，周四和周五在布鲁塞尔的首脑会议上与其他欧盟领导人进行会谈。
But experts say that the commitment to an “ever closer union” would be hard to expunge from the European Union’s main treaty, and that it has no legal force anyway.
但专家说，“日益紧密的联盟”这个承诺很难从欧盟的主要条约中被删除，而且反正它也没有法律效力。
Among critics of the European Union in Mr. Cameron’s Conservative Party, there is considerable pressure to force a change in that stated European goal, which they see as an affront to national sovereignty.
在卡梅伦的保守党(Conservative Party)中，欧盟的批评者施加了相当大的压力，要求改变对欧洲目标的这种说法，他们认为那是对国家主权的一种侮辱。
Speaking in Parliament this month, Liam Fox, a former defense secretary, described the term as “the one thing with the European Union with which I have the greatest problem.”
本月，前国防部长利亚姆·福克斯(Liam Fox)在议会中发言时，称这种说法是“欧盟问题中最让我困扰的地方”。
“I do not believe in ever closer union,” he said, “because for me the logical endpoint of ever closer union is union, and I do not want to lose our status as a sovereign independent nation.”
“我不相信‘日益紧密的联盟’，”他说，“因为对我来说，‘日益紧密的联盟’，其逻辑终点将是联邦，而我不希望英国失去作为主权独立国家的地位。”
A fellow Conservative, Steve Baker, said that “current circumstances do lead to ever closer union and a single nation state.” Another, Craig Mackinlay, said of ever closer union: “As one advertiser says of its product, it means exactly what it says on the tin.”
另一位保守党人史蒂夫·贝克(Steve Baker)说，“目前的情况确实在趋向日益紧密的联盟甚至单一国家。”还有一名保守党人克雷格·麦金利(Craig Mackinlay)说，日益紧密的联盟“就像是打广告的人在说自己的产品，包装上写的是什么，里面就是什么”。
In Continental Europe, there is some puzzlement at the intensity of the opposition to the phrase, particularly since previous British governments have been more pragmatic.
英国人如此反感这句话，令欧洲大陆的一些人感到不解，特别是因为以前的英国政府更加务实。
“Ever closer union among the peoples of Europe” are the words featured in the preamble to the Treaty of Rome, signed in 1957, the founding treaty for a bloc that Britain joined in 1973.
“在欧洲各国人民之间形成日益紧密的联盟”是1957年签署的《罗马条约》(Treaty of Rome)序言中的一句话，英国在1973年加入了根据这个条约建立的集团。
The words echo the phrase, “We the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union,” which is the start of the preamble to the American Constitution.
这句话呼应了《美国宪法》(American Constitution)序言中一句话，“我们合众国人民，为建立更完善的联邦”。
During talks on the Maastricht Treaty, signed in 1992, the inclusion of “ever closer union” was in doubt, but it was supported by former Prime Minister John Major, a Conservative — albeit as an alternative to a formulation deemed worse.
在1992年签署的《马斯特里赫特条约》(Maastricht Treaty)谈判期间，“日益紧密的联盟”也遭到置疑，但它获得了英国前首相、保守党人约翰·梅杰(John Major)的支持——尽管那是由于另一个选择更加糟糕。
That was a text proposed by the Dutch government promoting a federal Europe — a term which to many Britons implies an overarching European superstate.
荷兰政府提出的那个说法是“欧洲联邦”——在很多英国人听来，它暗示着要形成一个整体性的欧洲超级大国。
Rolf-Dieter Krause, the chief correspondent in Brussels for the German broadcaster ARD, who reported on the Maastricht negotiations, recalled that “ever closer union” was in the final text “due to British requests — it seems funny that they now want to change it.”
罗尔夫-迪特尔·克劳斯(Rolf-Dieter Krause)是德国广播公司ARD驻布鲁塞尔的首席记者，曾报道过马斯特里赫特谈判。他回忆说，“在英国的要求下，最后大家使用了‘日益紧密的联盟’——他们现在又想换掉它，这有点好笑。”
Stephen Wall, a former senior official in the British government, said Britain had been “relieved” to see the demise of the Dutch draft of the Maastricht Treaty, and had been relaxed about the use of the now much-maligned three words.
英国政府前高级官员斯蒂芬·沃尔(Stephen Wall)说，看到荷兰撰写的《马斯特里赫特条约》草案被推翻，英国“如释重负”，于是就放松了对如今备受指责的那个说法的警惕。
“In John Major’s government, anything that was in earlier treaties allowed ministers to go to Parliament, and say that this was nothing new,” said Mr. Wall, now an official historian of Britain’s relations with the European Union.
目前研究英国与欧盟(European Union)关系的正史学者沃尔说，“在约翰·梅杰(John Major)执政时期，较早协议中规定的任何内容都可以让首相前往议会，说此事并不新鲜。”
“Margaret Thatcher never objected as it was ever closer union among the peoples of Europe, which she saw as something organic rather than something imposed on governments,” he said.
他说，“就欧洲人民形成日益紧密的联盟而言，玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)从未表示过反对，她认为这个过程是自然的，而不是强加在政府之上的东西。”
Last week, Martin Schulz, president of the European Parliament, told the British newspaper The Guardian that scrapping the phrase would require a treaty change, a step that needs the approval of all 28 European Union nations.
上周， 欧洲议会(European Parliament)议长马丁·舒尔茨(Martin Schulz)告诉英国报纸《卫报》(The Guardian)，删除这一说法将需要改变条约内容，而这一过程需要所有28个欧盟成员国批准。
An alternative might be to secure a declaration, making clear that the phrase does not apply to Britain, to be added to the next version of the treaty whenever it is revised.
另一种可能的解决办法是确保能在该条约的下一个版本——不论何时对该协议进行修订——中加入一项声明，说明这个说法不适用于英国。
Mr. Wall said that he believed British concerns derived from a sense of insecurity about the European Union, rooted in a fear of being outmaneuvered and outvoted.
沃尔表示，他认为英国的担忧源于欧盟所带来的不安全感，归根结底是担心在行动中和表决时处于劣势。