Growing up in Uniontown, Pa., the Hurley twins, Tracy and Tonya, spent most weekends attending funerals with their grandmother. “In our hometown, Sundays were either for funerals or a Steelers game,” said Tracy, who is now Tracy Martin. “And our grandmother was a funeral fly.”
赫尔利(Hurley)家的双胞胎姐妹特蕾西(Tracy)和东尼娅(Tonya)在宾夕法尼亚州尤宁敦(Uniontown)长大，她们大多数周末都和祖母一起参加葬礼。“在我们家乡，星期天的活动要么是参加葬礼，要么是看匹兹堡钢人队(Steelers)的比赛，”现在姓氏已变成马丁的特蕾西说，“我的祖母就像一只‘葬礼苍蝇’，哪里有葬礼，就飞向哪里。”
Funerals were also the family business. Their great-uncle Vito ran a funeral parlor, and he and his wife and five daughters lived upstairs. “It was just like working in a deli,” Ms. Martin said. “Gorgeous cousin Denise” was the mortician, and when the twins’ father, a boxer and irregular presence in their lives, died of a heart attack when he was 42 and they were 19 and attending college (the first members of their family to do so), Denise laid him out. “He looks like hell,” Ms. Martin recalled her saying. “I’ll see what I can do.”
葬礼也是这个家族的产业。她们的叔公维托(Vito)开了一家殡仪馆。他和妻子还有五个孩子就住在殡仪馆的楼上。“这跟在熟食店里工作没什么区别，”马丁说，“美女表姐丹妮丝(Denise)”是一名殡葬员。双胞胎姐妹的父亲，在42岁时死于心脏病。他是一名拳击手，平时并不怎么出现在她们的生活里，他去世时，姐妹俩19岁，正在上大学（此前，这个家族里还没有人上过大学）。据马丁回忆，丹妮丝为她们的父亲做殡葬准备时说，“他的样子太糟糕了，我看看我能为他做点什么。”
On a recent raw April afternoon, Ms. Martin, the chief executive of the Morbid Anatomy Museum, opening in Gowanus, Brooklyn, next month — think peculiar Victorian taxidermy, illustrations of medical pathologies and preserved insects, among other cultish curiosities — and Ms. Hurley, the author of best-selling young-adult novels starring dead heroines (specifically teenage martyrs and ghosts), sat side by side at Ms. Martin’s dining room table and tried to explain their own family business, their lifelong obsession with death and how Ms. Martin came to be the overseer of a cultural institution devoted to the dead and the ghastly.
由马丁担任执行馆长的病理解剖博物馆(Morbid Anatomy Museum)，即将于下个月在布鲁克林的郭瓦纳斯(Gowanus)开放——想象一下，到处都是稀奇古怪的维多利亚时代动物标本剥制术、病理学插图和经过防腐处理的昆虫，以及其他重口味的古玩。而赫尔利是一位畅销青春小说作家，她的小说中描绘的都是已经亡故的女主人公（尤其是少女殉道者和幽灵）。不久前，在四月的一个阴冷的下午，马丁和赫尔利并肩坐在马丁家餐厅的桌前，解说着她们的家族产业，谈论她们一生对于死亡的着迷，并讲述了马丁如何在一个专注于死亡及恐怖主题的文化机构当上馆长的历程。
“We find joy in the macabre,” Ms. Martin began. “It’s fertile.”
“我们能在死亡主题中找到乐趣，”马丁开口道，“这是个丰富的主题。”
The setting was perfect: a late-19th-century Brooklyn brownstone that had been given a kind of Morbid Anatomy makeover by Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the former movie-set designers now known for their highbrow, Steampunk-ish domestic and hotel interiors. There were black-and-yellow poppies in a vase and, on the wall, a stupendous Victorian mourning wreath. A black leather Dunbar sofa wore a hulking buffalo skin.
博物馆的布置很完美：这是一座19世纪的布鲁克林褐石建筑，由罗宾·斯坦德福(Robin Standefer)和斯蒂芬·亚利斯克(Stephen Alesch)赋予了其病理解剖学的格调。斯坦德福和亚利斯克原是电影布景设计师，如今则因格调高雅的蒸汽朋克(Steampunk)式家居和酒店室内设计而闻名。在博物馆内，一只花瓶里插着黄黑相间的罂粟，墙上挂着一只巨大的维多利亚式悼念花圈。Dunbar公司设计的一张黑色皮椅上罩着笨重的水牛皮。
Ms. Martin and Ms. Hurley, now 43, wore similar (though not identical) black tunics, black tights and boots. As Ms. Hurley said, “We will wear black until they invent a darker color.”
马丁和赫尔利现年43岁，穿着相似（却不相同）的黑色束腰外衣、黑色紧身裤袜和黑色靴子。正如赫尔利所说，“我们会一直穿黑色服装，直到他们发明出一种更深的颜色。”
Every few minutes, a burst of electronic music wafted up from the basement. Ms. Martin is married to Vince Clarke, the English synth-pop star who is a founding member of Depeche Mode and half of the band Erasure. Mr. Clarke was on deadline for a new Erasure album and had been holed up for days in his basement studio with an arsenal of analog synthesizers.
每隔几分钟，就有一阵电子音乐从地下室传来。马丁的丈夫是英国流行电音明星文斯·克拉克(Vince Clarke)。他是赶时髦乐队（Depeche Mode，一支1980年成立于英国的电子乐乐队——译注）的创始成员，也是灭迹组合（Erasure，一个英国音乐组合，包括词曲创作兼键盘手文斯·克拉克和歌手安迪·贝尔——译注）的两名成员之一。目前，灭迹组合的新专辑发行在即，克拉克正在赶工，他已经连续好几天把自己关在地下室的录音棚里了，身边堆满音乐合成器。
The family business is music, films, books and now a museum (Ms. Hurley is on the board), much of it with a dark side. Ms. Hurley is married to Michael Pagnotta, a music and brand manager whose company, Reach, used to employ both sisters and who has handled not only Erasure, Depeche Mode, Morrissey, George Michael, Prince and the Cure, but also the Olsen twins. “We were the twins behind the twins,” Ms. Martin said.
这个家族的产业，包括音乐、电影、图书——如今又添了一家博物馆（赫尔利是董事会成员），其中大多数产业的主题都带有暗黑色彩。赫尔利的丈夫迈克尔·帕尼奥塔(Michael Pagnotta)是一名音乐和乐队经理，他的公司Reach曾雇佣过姐妹二人，麾下乐团和艺人不仅包括灭迹组合、赶时髦乐队、莫里西（Morrissey，英国创作歌手，因80年代担任史密斯乐队的主唱兼作词家而成名——译注）、王子（Prince，美国流行音乐家，80年代美国流行乐代表人物之一——译注）、乔治·迈克尔（George Michael，著名英国歌手，两度获得葛莱美奖——译注）和治疗乐队（the Cure，英国摇滚乐队，成立于1976年——译注），还包括奥尔森姐妹（Olsen twins，生于美国加州，童星出身的美国豪门双胞胎、服装设计师、时尚名媛——译注）。“我们是姐妹花背后的姐妹花。”马丁说。
The foursome came together nearly two decades ago, when Mr. Pagnotta hired the sisters, who had moved to New York to be musicians. (In high school, Tracy was the bassist and Tonya the drummer for a punk band called Prophylactic Fear. “Go ahead,” Ms. Hurley said. “Take your time to laugh. You got to know we didn’t name it. We were just the two chicks with these skinheads.”)
两对夫妇结识于20年前。那时候，两姐妹来到纽约，想向音乐方向发展，而帕尼奥塔雇佣了她们（高中时期，她们是朋克乐队“预防性恐惧”[Prophylactic Fear]的成员。特蕾西是贝斯手，东尼娅是鼓手。“没事，”赫尔利说，“你尽管笑。乐队的名字不是我们取的。我们只是跟着一群光头仔厮混在一起的黄毛丫头。”）
Mr. Pagnotta and Ms. Hurley fell in love first. Soon after, Ms. Martin said, Mr. Clarke literally fell for her. Or near her. One night after an Erasure event, he was saying his goodbyes to her while walking backward. When he tripped, Ms. Martin recalled, “I said, ‘Oh, my God, you love me already.’ Of course, I was kidding. ”
帕尼奥塔和赫尔利首先坠入了爱河。不久后，据马丁说，克拉克为她“倾倒”了，或者说，倒在了她的旁边。有一天晚上，参加完灭迹组合的活动，他一边倒着走，一边跟她说再见，结果摔倒了。马丁回忆道，“当时我说：‘噢，我的天哪，你已经爱上我了。’当然，我只是在开玩笑。”
Now, she said: “It’s like a commune. It all blurs together. We all have our hands in each other’s business.”
如今，她说：“我们就像生活在公社里一样，大家不分你我，互相插手彼此的事情。”
On a recent family camping trip, Mr. Clarke and Ms. Hurley made a zombie movie together, using action-figure party favors, just for fun. Ms. Martin’s eyes are the first to see Ms. Hurley’s gothic novels: her first series was called “ghostgirl,” for its deceased heroine; the new series, “The Blessed,” is about a trio of martyred teenagers. Ms. Hurley has directed Erasure videos, and Mr. Clarke writes the music for her book trailers and movies.
在最近一次家庭露营期间，克拉克和赫尔利一起制作了一部僵尸电影，目的纯粹是自娱自乐，道具用的是派对上赠送的活动玩偶。赫尔利每写一部哥特小说，马丁都是第一个读者。赫尔利的第一个小说系列称为《幽灵女孩》(ghostgirl)，这个名字指的是书中已经亡故的女主人公；而新推出的系列称为《蒙恩使女》(The Blessed)，故事的主人公是三名殉道的少女。赫尔利导演过灭迹组合的MV，克拉克则为她的新书预告和电影创作过歌曲。
Mr. Pagnotta, by proxy, has also contributed to the family’s morbid leitmotif. The sisters’ uproarious and affecting film about his mother, an irresistible widow named Mary, follows her as she visits the grave sites of her many deceased family members, in a performance that would make Ruth Gordon proud. (It’s called “Solo-Me-O,” and it aired on PBS in 1999.)
帕尼奥塔受到委托，也为家族的暗黑主题产业贡献过自己的力量。姐妹俩拍过一部喧嚣而感人的电影，主人公是他的母亲玛丽，一名魅力十足的寡妇。影片摄制组跟随玛丽拍摄了她探访墓园的过程，墓园里葬着许多已故的家族成员。该片的放映表现足以让演员鲁思·戈登(Ruth Gordon)自豪（片名为《Solo-Me-O》，1999年曾在公共电视网[PBS]上放映。）
“I feel like we’re so intertwined, I don’t know who I am on my own,” Ms. Martin joked. The other day, when Ms. Hurley left to pick up their children from school — Isabelle Rose Pagnotta is 10, Oscar Martin is 8 — Ms. Martin admitted that she frequently impersonates her sister on the phone. It’s a protective gesture, she said: “Her nervous banter can go off on a tangent.” (It is the case that Ms. Hurley is more garrulous than her sister.) “I actually got her the job at Reach. I did her phone interview. I wonder if Michael knows that.”
“我觉得，我们这对双胞胎彼此间的联系太紧密，我在独处的时候都不知自己是谁了。”马丁开玩笑道。姐妹俩各有一个孩子，伊莎贝尔·罗斯·帕尼奥塔(Isabelle Rose Pagnotta)现年10岁，奥斯卡·马丁(Oscar Martin)8岁。前几天，当赫尔利去学校接两个孩子后，马丁承认，她经常在电话上扮演自己的妹妹。这是一种保护，她说：“她一紧张起来就爱开玩笑，说一些跑题的话，”（赫尔利的确比她姐姐更爱嚼舌头）“其实当初在Reach的工作，是我帮她应聘的。我替她做了电话面试。不知迈克尔知不知道这件事。”
The idea for the new Morbid Anatomy Museum was planted two Halloweens ago, when Ms. Martin and Ms. Hurley attended a talk that Joanna Ebenstein was giving about the cult of Santa Muerte, or Saint Death, at a bookstore in Brooklyn.
开设病理解剖博物馆的想法是在两个万圣节前产生的，当时马丁和赫尔利在布鲁克林的一家书店听了乔安娜·埃布施泰因(Joanna Ebenstein)的演讲，主题是关于死亡圣神（Santa Muerte，或Saint Death）的崇拜。
Ms. Ebenstein, an artist, is something of a scholar of the macabre. Since 2008, she has presided over the Morbid Anatomy Library, a tiny exhibition space at Proteus Gowanus, an arts organization, that grew out of her wildly popular Morbid Anatomy blog, both of which are devoted to expressions of all that is ghoulish: books bound in human skin, for example, or post-mortem photography or Victorian mourning wreaths or Santa Muerte relics. Or, as Ms. Ebenstein likes to say, the bizarre, the liminal and the beautiful.
艺术家埃布施泰因在死亡这个话题上可谓学者级人物。从2008年开始，她一直担任病理解剖图书馆的馆长。这家图书馆是艺术机构Proteus Gowanus内部的一个小型展览区，是由埃布施泰因的超人气病理解剖博客发展而来。两者都专注于重口味的事物：比如人皮装订的书、遗照、维多利亚式悼念花环、死亡圣神的圣物。或者，正如埃布施泰因所说，凡是古怪、混沌、美丽的事物，都在病理解剖博客和图书馆的关注范围内。
In this incarnation, Morbid Anatomy had accrued a passionate fan base eager to participate in its squirrel taxidermy workshops and attend its Morbid Curiosity Singles Nights. When the sisters saw the extent of Ms. Ebenstein’s collections and learned her history, Ms. Martin told her, “I always thought there should be a gift shop and a cafe around this stuff.” As she recalled recently, Ms. Ebenstein replied, “ ‘You’re right, and it should be attached to a real museum, and I can give that to you.’ I can’t remember the moment it got serious, but it made the transition from fanciful to real pretty quickly.”
通过这些展品，病理解剖图书馆积累了一大批热情洋溢的粉丝，他们积极参加馆方举办的松鼠标本剥制工作坊，和病态好奇心单身之夜(Morbid Curiosity Singles Night)。马丁和赫尔利姐妹俩看了埃布施泰因的大量藏品，了解了她的经历后，马丁告诉她，“我一直觉得这里应该开个主题礼品店和咖啡馆。”前不久，埃布施泰因回忆起这件事时表示，她当时的答复是，“你说得没错，它应该依托于一家真正的博物馆，我可以给你建一个。’我不记得这件事是从何时开始认真落实起来的了，但它很快就从一个想法转化成了现实。”
For Ms. Martin, who is used to wrangling rock stars and celebrities, creating a museum from scratch was no fantasy project. She tackled it, Ms. Ebenstein said, with startling tenacity and deadpan humor. The twins will tell you they got their work ethic from their mom, a nurse who worked three jobs to raise them, with a little help from her own mother. (See “funeral fly,” above.)
对于经常跟摇滚明星和名人扯嘴皮子的马丁来说，凭空建起一家博物馆并不是什么难事。据埃布施泰因说，马丁以惊人的意志和不动声色的幽默打理了这件事情。这对姐妹花会告诉你，她们的职业品性是从母亲那里学来的。母亲打了三份工，辛辛苦苦地将她们养大，祖母在这个过程中也尽了绵薄之力（参考上文的“葬礼苍蝇”）。
In just under a year, Ms. Martin and Ms. Ebenstein, along with Colin Dickey, co-editor of “The Morbid Anatomy Anthology,” and Aaron Beebe, an artist and the former director of the Coney Island Museum, assembled a board, hired the executive and curatorial staff, found an architect (two, actually), raised money in a Kickstarter campaign and found space in a former nightclub in Gowanus. The Brooklyn Arts Council is a sponsor. The other day, Ms. Martin proudly brandished the museum’s official charter from the state.
在短短一年时间里，马丁和埃布施泰因会同《病理解剖学文集》(The Morbid Anatomy Anthology)的合编者科林·迪基(Colin Dickey)以及康尼岛博物馆(Coney Island Museum)的前馆长兼艺术家亚伦·毕比(Aaron Beebe)成立了董事会，招募了执行和策展人员，找到一名建筑师（实际上有两名），在Kickstarter发起筹资活动，并在郭瓦纳斯找了一个原本是夜总会的地方作为场馆。布鲁克林艺术委员会(Brooklyn Arts Council)是赞助方。前不久，马丁自豪地将州政府颁发给博物馆的执照拿出来炫耀了一番。
When it opens next month, the three-story, 4,200-square-foot museum — painted black, of course, and designed by the architects Robert Kirkbride and Anthony Cohn — will have not just exhibition spaces, but an expansive library, a lecture and events space, a gift shop and a cafe, where you’ll be able to snack on mourning cookies and chocolate bird skulls. The first show, in early summer, is on the work of the Victorian taxidermist Walter Potter, a cult figure who made weird anthropomorphic tableaux of things like kittens getting married, having tea or playing poker. There will be Morbid Anatomy residencies and Morbid Anatomy workshops — wearable taxidermy, anyone?
博物馆有三层，4200平方英尺（约合390平方米）。墙面当然漆成了黑色，设计工作由建筑师罗伯特·柯克布赖德(Robert Kirkbride)和安东尼·科恩(Anthony Cohn)完成。等到下个月（指5月——译注）开放之时，博物馆拥有的将不仅仅是展览空间，还包括一家宽敞的书店、一个举办讲座和活动的场所、一间礼品店和一家咖啡馆。你可以在咖啡馆里品尝哀悼饼干和鸟头骨形状的巧克力。第一场主题展拟在今年初夏举行，内容是维多利亚时期动物标本剥制师沃尔特·波特(Walter Potter)的作品。波特是个重口味的人，他喜欢用动物标本摆出人类的生活场景，比如猫咪结婚、喝茶、打扑克。以后还会展出病理解剖住宅、病理解剖工作坊——可穿戴的标本，有没有感兴趣的？
When Ms. Martin held a fund-raiser for the museum at her house, Ms. Ebenstein said, its décor showed Ms. Martin to be a true believer. “You can see from Tracy’s house that her aesthetic is a rarefied version of what our aesthetic is,” Ms. Ebenstein said. “Almost an aspirational model of what Morbid Anatomy is all about. It was really important for our community to see that. It put our cult audience at ease. I think they could see that the museum is not going to be this stupid, kitschy death-salon place.”
埃布施泰因说，马丁在自己家里为博物馆举行过一场筹资活动，那时候，她家的装潢充分说明，马丁是真正的死亡美学信奉者。“你从特蕾西的家里就能看出，她的美学在我们的美学‘派别’中，属于非常纯粹的类型，”埃布施泰因说，“这几乎就是标准模范，能够反映病理解剖的真谛，我们这个群体的人真应该好好见识一下。这也能让我们的重口味观众放心下来。我觉得他们可以从中看出，病理解剖博物馆不会是一个空洞无物、故弄玄虚的死亡美学沙龙。”
The house enjoyed a different kind of fame when Mr. Clarke and Ms. Martin bought it two years ago from Jenna Lyons, creative director of J. Crew. Ever since appearing (twice) on the cover of the old Domino magazine, the place had been relentlessly blogged about. Fans pored over its elements: Ms. Lyons’s bright yellow English sofa and spare kitchen, her beds with their plain white sheets, the entire bedroom she had turned into a closet.
马丁现在的家，是两年前克拉克和马丁从J.Crew创意总监詹娜·莱恩兹(Jenna Lyons)那里买来的。当时这套房子的名声跟现在并不一样。它曾（两次）登上停刊前的《Domino》杂志封面，自此之后一直是众多博客关注的焦点。粉丝们翻来覆去地研究它的设计元素：莱昂斯的亮黄色英式沙发和备用厨房、铺着纯白色被单的床、由整间卧室改造而成的壁橱。
It was also a fantasy for Ms. Martin, who had dreamed about living in a classic Brooklyn brownstone ever since she and her sister shared a one-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn Heights.
那也是马丁梦寐以求的住所。自从与妹妹在布鲁克林高地(Brooklyn Heights)合住过一套一居室公寓之后，马丁一直梦想着自己能够住在一套古典的布鲁克林褐石建筑中。
She is not alone in the fantasy. There was a bidding war, she said, and Ms. Lyons asked that final bids be accompanied by a personal essay, just like a college application. “I wrote a really long letter,” Ms. Martin said. “I told my story — we have sons about the same age — and made my case and my promise that I would love the house as much as she had.”
有这种梦想的人不止她一个。这些人开展了一场竞购大战，她说，莱昂斯要求买家报出最终出价的同时，附一篇个人陈述，就跟申请大学一样。“我写了一封很长很长的信，”马丁说，“我讲了自己的故事——我们的儿子差不多同龄，我罗列了一些证明自己的材料，还保证，我会像她一样爱这套房子。”
Also, she said: “Vince ponied up. I told him, this is it. This is where I’m going to die. Hopefully not anytime soon.”
而且，她说：“文斯掏了钱。我告诉他我看中了，这就是我将要终老的地方，希望不会那么快就到来吧。”
They ended up paying $4 million, $250,000 over the asking price.
最终，他们支付了400万美元（约合人民币2491万元），比要价高出了25万美元（约合人民币156万元）。
With help from her sister, Ms. Martin began to fill the place. But its visual legacy — the ghost of Jenna Lyons — was hard to shake. “I kept trying to buy her sofa, but in a different color,” Ms. Martin said.
在妹妹的帮助下，马丁开始为这套房子添置家具。但是詹娜·莱昂斯留下的印记是难以消除的。“我一直试图购买她那样的沙发，只不过颜色不一样。”马丁说。
She had always planned to outsource, but it wasn’t easy to find designers who shared her sensibility. Finally, she saw photographs of Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch’s own loft, a mash-up of early-20th-century industrial elements, ebonized wood, fur, metal, leather and bones. Their firm, Roman and Williams, has a reputation for making places that appear to have been around for 100 years, without looking like historical re-creations.
她一直打算将装潢工作外包出去，只不过难以找到美学情趣相投的设计师。直到最终，她看到了斯坦德福和亚利斯克的单间公寓照片。那套公寓混搭了20世纪初的各种工业元素，包括刷成黑檀色的木材、毛皮、金属、皮革和骨头。这两个人开的公司Roman and Williams的闻名之处就在于，能使一个地方看起来有百年历史，但又不像是经过重建的历史建筑。
Ms. Standefer said: “When we first saw the house, we were like, ‘Wait a minute, isn’t this the J. Crew chick’s place?’ It was too spare and too contemporary for Tracy, but she had no idea how to get it to the sort of maximalist, feminine place she wanted. We tend to lean masculine. We rarely get asked for more-feminine elements. Embroidered wallpapers meets the toughness of buffalo hide. Awesome, we thought. Let’s not taxidermy this out.”
斯坦德福说：“我们一开始看到那套房子时，心里想的是，‘等等，这不是J. Crew那个小妞的家吗？’它对于特蕾西来说太简约、太现代了。但是她不知道怎样才能把房子打造成她想要的那种极繁主义的女性化风格。我们倾向于男性化风格。很少有人要求我们采用更女性化的元素。刺绣壁纸与水牛皮的硬气形成反差，我们觉得这很棒，不需要把它剥离出去。”
The one room untouched since Ms. Lyons’s departure is the cedar-paneled basement. Real estate photos show it outfitted like a den, but Ms. Martin said it was another giant closet (the one upstairs is now the master bedroom). Mr. Clarke moved right in with his synthesizers. It reminds him, Ms. Martin said, of the cabin where he works in Maine, and where they lived full-time when Oscar was born.
莱昂斯搬走后，唯一没有动过的房间是地下室，里面饰有雪松木镶板。房产照片上显示，它的布置就像一处地穴。但是马丁说，这里其实又是一个巨大的壁橱（楼上那间如今已经变成了主卧）。克拉克把音乐合成器搬了进来。马丁说，这里让他想起自己在缅因州时居住的小屋，那是他工作的地方，也是他们成天居住的地方。奥斯卡就是在那段时间出生的。