NEW DELHI — On Oct. 23, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India and Prime Minister Li Keqiang of China oversaw the signing of nine agreements on issues like river-sharing and cooperation against terrorism. The most notable among these was the Border Defense Cooperation Agreement, meant to calm down tensions along the disputed 3,380-kilometer (2,100-mile) Himalayan border between the two countries.
新德里——10月23日，印度总理曼莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)和中国总理李克强共同见证签署了九项关于水资源共享和反恐合作等问题的协议。其中最引人注目的是边防合作协议(Border Defense Cooperation Agreement)，该协议旨在缓解两国在喜马拉雅边境的领土争议引发的紧张关系。印中两国沿喜马拉雅山共享3380公里的边境线。
The agreement came as a major relief to Indian defense strategists after the Chinese Army’s repeated incursions into Ladakh in the north earlier this year and into Arunachal Pradesh in the east. But despite some signs of improvement in India-China relations, Chinese officials have maintained that their policy of issuing stapled visas, instead of stamped visas, to the residents of Arunachal Pradesh, the northeastern Indian state over which China for long has made territorial claims will continue to remain in place. In 2009, China also started giving stapled visas to the residents of Jammu and Kashmir.
中国军队今年早些时候多次从北部进入拉达克，并从东部进入阿鲁纳恰尔邦，而该协议的出现给印度的防务战略家带来了极大的宽慰。但是尽管印中关系出现了一些改善的迹象，中国官员却坚持说，他们将继续向阿鲁纳恰尔邦的居民发放“另纸签证”，而不是在护照上贴签证盖章。阿鲁纳恰尔邦在印度东北部，中国长期以来一直宣称对其拥有主权。2009年，中国还开始向查谟-克什米尔邦的居民发放另纸签证。
Indian immigration officials have responded by refusing to let Indian holders of stapled visas board their flights to China. In the past, those who have been turned back from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi include students, athletes and businessmen. I happen to be one among them.
印度出入境官员的回应是，拒绝让持有另纸签证的印度人登机前往中国。迄今为止，已经有学生、运动员和商人因为这个原因在新德里英迪拉·甘地国际机场(Indira Gandhi International Airport)被拒绝登机。我也是其中一员。
Historically, immigration controls, passports, visas and other such mechanisms were developed to first institutionalize the idea of the nation-state and then preserve its sovereignty. For nations to be sovereign nation-states, not only was it necessary for the state to monopolize the means of violence but also to have complete control over who could leave or enter its territorial borders. This was the essence of the explanation given to me by the immigration officials at the New Delhi airport when they stopped me from boarding a flight to Beijing on the night of Sept. 2, 2009.
从历史上看，出入境管制、护照、签证和其他类似机制的产生首先是为了让民族国家的概念制度化，其次是为了维护国家主权。一国要想成为主权民族国家，不仅要垄断暴力手段，还要对哪些人可以出入境拥有完全的控制。这就是2009年9月2日，新德里这座机场的出入境官员阻止我登机前往北京时对我所做解释的核心意思。
I was going to Beijing to join a master’s program in international development at Tsinghua University’s School of Public Policy and Management. I had been offered a full scholarship at the age of 27. It had taken years of hard work and an uneasy life in Delhi’s heat to reach a stage where I could secure a place at a university ranked among top 50 in the QS World University Rankings. The departure, I had thought, would bring a new start and order to a life that hadn’t gone anywhere so far.
我当时去北京是为了去清华大学公共管理学院攻读一个国际发展领域的研究生项目。当时27岁的我获得了全额奖学金。为了获得这所位列QS世界大学排名(QS World University Rankings)前50的学校的一个名额，我在天气炎热的德里付出了多年的艰苦努力，过着窘迫的生活。我当时认为，对于我这样一个从没去过其他地方的人，这次出发意味着一个新的更有序的生活。
It was also the first time that I was flying out of India. I was a little nervous. When I reached the airport, the sheer numbers of people going in and out of its glittering gates with ease reassured me that transiting through this airport was merely a routine exercise. I certainly did not have even a slightest idea of what was coming.
那也是我第一次乘飞机出国。我有点紧张。当我抵达机场时，我看到熙熙攘攘的人群从容地从机场闪闪发光的大门进进出出，这让我觉得，从这个机场中转不过是一件稀松平常的事，因此变得安心。我丝毫没有意识到即将会发生什么。
I was flying with Malaysia Airlines to Kuala Lumpur and from there to Beijing. The flight was scheduled to depart at 11 p.m. Indian time. On the way to airport, like any first-time traveler, I incessantly checked the flight timings on my ticket to make sure that I would have time to finish all the airport formalities well before the departure time.
我乘坐的是马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的航班，先去吉隆坡，然后再从那里飞北京。飞机定于印度时间晚上11点起飞。在去往机场的路上，就像任何一个初次旅行的人一样，我不停地检查机票上的航班时间，确保我有时间在起飞前办完所有手续。
Immediately after reaching the airport, I went to the Malaysia Airlines counter to deposit my luggage. A neatly dressed Malaysia Airlines employee issued me a boarding pass with an approving smile and a wish for a happy journey. All was going as I had hoped.
抵达机场后，我立即到马来西亚航空公司的柜台托运了行李。一位穿着整齐的马航工作人员向我发放了登机牌，笑容中带着鼓励，还祝我旅途愉快。一切都如我希望的那样进行。
The next step was to walk up to the immigration counter. I waited in line and on my turn handed over my passport to a burly immigration official sitting behind the counter. He looked at my passport and then looked at my face. He repeated the process at least three times and then finally stamped my passport.
接下来是去出入境服务台。我排队等了一会，轮到我的时候，我把护照交给了坐在柜台后一位身材魁梧的出入境管理人员。他看了看我的护照，又看了看我的脸。这个过程他至少重复了三次，终于在我的护照上盖了个戳。
But before he could return it to me, he turned to the official, probably his superior, sitting next to him and pointed something out in the visa that had been issued to me by the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi. The second official instantly got up, came around the counter, opened the passport in front of me, wrote “off loaded” across the stamp that had been put on it by the first official, and then handed it back to me.
但是，在把护照还给我之前，他转向了坐在旁边的另一位工作人员，可能是他的上司，并指着签证上的什么东西。我的签证是中国驻新德里大使馆签发的。第二名工作人员立刻起身，从服务台后走出来，在我面前翻开护照，在第一名工作人员的印戳上写下了“无效”，然后还给了我。
He told me that I couldn’t board the flight. When I asked why, his reply was, “Are you from Kashmir?” When I told him I was, he said, “That is why.” He added that I had a “fake” visa.
他告诉我，我不能登机。我问他为什么，他回答说，“你是克什米尔邦人吗？”我说是。他说，“就是这个原因。”他补充说，我的签证是“假”的。
Before I could make any sense of what had just happened and ask any further questions, I found myself surrounded by a group of immigration officials, along with a few heavily armed airport security guards. At this point I got scared. I could feel my hands trembling. The guards escorted me back to the Malaysian Airlines counter, my luggage was called back, and then I was escorted to one of the passenger exits of the airport.
没等我搞清楚刚刚发生了什么，我也没来得及再问什么问题，我发现自己已经被一群出入境管理人员包围，还有几名荷枪实弹的机场安保人员。这时我害怕了。我能感觉到我的手在颤抖。安保人员带我回到了马来西亚航空公司的服务台，我的行李被召回，然后，我被带到了机场的一个旅客出口处。
The visa that the Chinese Embassy had given me was on a separate sheet of paper stapled to one of the pages of my passport. It was not stamped, as is the norm. When I had been given the visa, almost a month before my scheduled departure, I did not know what this meant. It was my first visa. I had no idea of the complex politics that came with it.
中国使馆给我的签证在一张单独的纸上，与我护照中的一页订在一起，不是正常的那种盖戳的签证。我获得签证时离计划出发的时间差不多还有一个月，我当时不知道这是什么意思。这是我的第一个签证。我对它背后复杂的政治原因毫无知觉。
When I returned home from the airport that night, deep down I still had a hope that something would work out, if I could just go to the Chinese Embassy and straighten out this misunderstanding. My main worry, however, was how to tell my parents that I was not able to go to China.
那天晚上从机场回到家时，我内心深处仍然希望，如果我去中国使馆，把误会说清楚，问题可能会得到解决。不过，我最担心的是怎么告诉父母我去不了中国了。
My mother, who never attended any school in her life, had been very happy that her son was going to China for higher education. When I made the call to them and said I was not allowed to board the flight, both my mother and father thought it was because I had done something wrong. It was hard for me to explain because I myself had no clue, and so it was even more difficult for them, from a village in Kashmir, to imagine the workings of Indian immigration or the Chinese Embassy.
我妈妈从来没上过学，她一直很高兴儿子能去中国接受高等教育。当我打电话跟他们说我被禁止登机时，我爸妈都觉得是我做了什么错事。我很难解释清楚，因为我自己也一头雾水，让住在克什米尔一个小村的他们去理解印度出入境管理部门或中国大使馆的规定就更难了。
Early morning on the following day, I headed for the Chinese Embassy. After waiting for few hours outside the high-walled massive compound, I was allowed inside. I pleaded my case with the embassy official, who insisted that my visa was valid. The official further said that the embassy had spoken to the immigration officials and sent letters to Indian Ministry of External Affairs stating that stapled visas are valid and are issued by the Chinese Embassy.
第二天一大早，我去了中国大使馆。在高墙环绕、面积庞大的使馆外等了几个小时之后，他们终于允许我进去了。我向使馆官员就我的签证提出了申诉，但这名官员坚持说我的签证有效。他然后说，大使馆和出入境官员交涉过，并向印度外交部(Indian Ministry of External Affairs)发了信函，说明了另纸签证是有效的，是中国大使馆签发的。
I insisted that the embassy give me a letter saying this. After my persistent requests and a wait of another couple of hours, the official finally agreed to do so. A letter, dated Sept. 2, 2009, was issued to me on the letterhead of the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in India. It said: “This is to certify that the visa (No. S0615104) on Mr. Asgar Qadri Syed is issued from the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi. It is true and valid.”
我坚持要求中国大使馆给我写信说明这个情况。在我不懈的请求下，又等了几个小时，这名官员终于同意了。这份出具给我的证明日期是2009年9月2日，抬头是中华人民共和国驻印度大使馆。证明上写道：“兹证明此签证（编号：S0615104）是中国驻新德里大使馆签发给阿斯加尔·卡德里·萨义德(Asgar Qadri Syed)的，签证真实有效。”
The letter gave me new hope. The following day, I went to the New Delhi airport again to show it to immigration officials. It made no difference. They even refused to look at it. I came back, dejected and fatigued. I still had no idea about what actually was wrong. Nobody was telling me the truth.
这份证明让我重新燃起希望。第二天，我又去了新德里机场，并把证明给出入境的管理人员看。结果还是一样。他们甚至拒绝看这份证明。我无功而返，垂头丧气、满身疲惫。我仍然不知道究竟是哪里出了问题。没人告诉我真相。
For many days, I kept on making phone calls, writing emails and personally visiting whoever I thought could possibly help me. As the days passed, I began to realize the futility of my running around, as I was caught in between the politics of two of the world’s rising powers. I gave up.
接下来的许多天里，我不断地打电话、写邮件、亲自去拜访我觉得可能帮助我的人。日子一天天过去，我开始意识到我的奔波是徒劳的，因为我陷入了世界上两个崛起的大国的政治纷争之中。我放弃了。
When the media later carried the news that Kashmiris were being given stapled visas by China, I came to know that the Indian government interpreted the stapled visa as China’s way of questioning Indian control over Kashmir. Indian authorities asserted that if anyone was allowed to leave the country’s borders with a stapled visa, it would mean violating India’s sovereignty.
直到后来媒体报道了中国向克什米尔人发放另纸签证的消息时，我才知道，印度政府将另纸签证解读为中国质疑印度对克什米尔主权的方式。印度当局称，如果任何人凭借另纸签证离境，就意味着印度的主权受到侵犯。
The news brought me one benefit. I showed the newspaper article on the visa issue to my father. He finally believed that I hadn’t done something wrong.
这条新闻帮了我一个忙。我把报纸上关于签证问题的文章拿给父亲看。他终于相信我没有做错什么。
Eventually I went to America. I still carry the newspaper clipping with me every time I travel overseas. I fear that foreign immigration officials might ask me why I was “off loaded.”
我最终去了美国。如今，我每次出国都带着这个新闻剪报。我担心外国的出入境管理人员可能会问，为什么我的护照上写着“无效”。