AUSTIN, Tex. — PITY the poor cat.
德克萨斯州奥斯汀——可怜的猫。
Somehow that creature of infinite detachment emerged as the symbol of incessant attachment here at South by Southwest.
不知怎的，这种极其冷淡的生物竟然成了在这里举行的“西南偏南”（South by Southwest，简称SXSW）大会上不断联络的象征。
In this festival of interactivity, connectivity, sharing and Tinder-ing, the two big stars were Grumpy Cat, who groggily greeted an endless stream of fans, and Meerkat, the live-streaming video app pounced on by presidential candidates eager to seem hip. (The meerkat is actually from the mongoose family.)
这个关于互动、联系、分享和激情的节日有两大巨星：不爽猫(Grumpy Cat)——它在无精打采地向源源不断的粉丝致意；及在线视频直播应用Meerkat（猫鼬）——迫切希望给自己增添时尚色彩的总统候选人曾争相使用这一应用。（猫鼬其实来自狐猴家族。）
Animal shelters hosted “yappy hours” with free beer, and Friskies cat food set up the Haus of Bacon, where Internet cat stars took photos with groupies. There was even an attempt to rebrand cats to be less snobby and more in tune with the huggy Internet age.
动物收容所用免费啤酒举办了“尖叫时刻”，喜悦(Friskies)猫粮则设立了“培根屋”(Haus of Bacon)，追星族可以与网络猫明星在这里合影。甚至还有人试图重新定义猫，让它们看起来显得不那么势利，与友好的互联网时代更加合拍。
Jackson Galaxy, the tattooed, pierced, catwhispering host of “My Cat From Hell,” on Animal Planet, held a standing-room-only session called “CATastrophe: Good, Bad and Ugly of Internet Cats.”
在动物星球(Animal Planet)主持《我家的地狱猫》(My Cat From Hell)的满身刺青和穿孔的猫语主持人杰克逊·加拉克西(Jackson Galaxy)举行了一个只有站席的活动，该活动叫做“猫灾难：网络猫咪的好、坏、丑”(CATastrophe: Good, Bad and Ugly of Internet Cats)。
He advised the crowd — some wearing orange cat ears — that, rather than calling cats “aloof,” it might be better to describe them as “free thinkers,” “Zen masters” and “Buddhists.”
他建议人们——有些人戴着橙色的猫耳朵——不要认为猫是“冷淡疏远”的，或许称它们为“自由思想家”、“禅师”和“佛教徒”更好。
Galaxy’s attempt to warm up the image of cats was undercut by research suggesting that the only species that seems to show no regret or forgiveness after spats are cats.
研究表明，唯一在争执过后似乎不会表现出丝毫悔意或宽恕的物种就是猫。这让加拉克西改善猫咪形象的努力因此付诸流水。
“I would hesitate to call cats domestic animals,” he told me, adding that he liked the fact that they are not “slavish,” but rather “no compromise” creatures who “kill stuff really well.”
“我不太愿意把猫称作家养动物，”他告诉我，还说他喜欢它们不“卑屈”的事实，是“毫不妥协”的动物，而且“颇为擅长杀戮”。
The focus on felines made me wish I could roam the festival with Tobermory, the barbed British cat with the “velvet tread and studied unconcern” from the Saki short story. In the 1911 yarn, a member of Lady Blemley’s house party teaches Tobermory, or Toby for short, to talk. Indifferent to the feelings of humans, Toby is brutally honest, exposing the guests’ dalliances, deceptions and foibles.
对于猫科动物的关注让我希望自己能与托伯莫里(Tobermory)一起在这个节日上漫步。托伯莫里出自萨基(Saki)的短篇小说，它是一只言辞尖刻的英国猫，“步态轻盈、佯装冷漠”。在这个1911年的故事中，布莱姆利太太(Lady Blemley)家庭宴会中的一名成员教了托伯莫里——简称托比(Toby)——如何说话。对人类感情漠不关心的托比非常敢说真话，于是揭露了客人们的调情，谎言和弱点。
I needed someone like Toby to help me cut through the verbal clutter and Panglossian spin in a world where celebrities are “influencers,” people are “users,” news is “content,” “platforms” are not shoes, the “Deep Web” is no place for Charlotte, and virtual reality trumps plain old reality. Toby would glide coolly past the drones in the Robot Petting Zoo. But he would make quick work of Yik Yak co-founders Tyler Droll and Brooks Buffington, former frat brothers wearing matching turquoise Yik Yak socks for their interview on stage.
我需要像托比这样的家伙来帮我揭穿胡言乱语和盲目乐观；在这个世界中，名人是“影响者”，人是“用户”，消息是“内容”，“平台”不是脚踩的地方，“深网”(Deep Web)并非为夏洛特(Charlotte)准备的，虚拟现实更是胜过了平淡无奇的真正现实。托比会冷静地掠过机器宠物园(Robot Petting Zoo)的无人机。它会迅速揭露Yik Yak的泰勒·德罗尔(Tyler Droll)和布鲁克斯·巴芬顿(Brooks Buffington)。这对来自一个兄弟会的联合创始人在台上接受采访时穿着同样的蓝绿色Yik Yak袜子。
They tried to push back against criticism that their anonymous, location-based social app used by students is a magnet for crude sexual hazing, bomb threats and bullying: the intimidating “Wild West of anonymous social apps,” as a law professor put it in a Times article.
有批评声称，他们基于地点的匿名社交应用为学生所用，会增加粗暴的性欺侮、炸弹威胁和欺凌的概率：可怕的“匿名社交应用中的西部蛮荒”——如一名法学教授在《纽约时报》的文章中所说。
Droll and Buffington said they wanted to create a site that would offer “a level playing field for content,” no matter your race, gender, ethnicity or popularity. They talked about how it could provide lifesaving help on donation drives and showed a sample of innocent “yaks.” In one, a lost girl was escorted back to her building; in another, redheads were praised as awesome.
德罗尔和巴芬顿说，他们当初的希望是，创建一个网站，提供“展示内容的公平平台”，不论用户是什么种族、性别、民族和受欢迎程度。他们讨论网站如何能为捐赠活动提供帮助，从而救人性命，并展示了无害“信息”的范例。比如一条信息显示，一名走失的女孩被护送回住所；另一条显示，有人称赞红棕色头发非常好看。
“Do you think we’re so feebleminded that we believe this flimflam about Yik Yak?” Toby would say serenely. “Look at any anonymous comments section online. Even I shudder, and I have claws and highly developed feral instincts.”
 “你认为我们会笨到相信有关Yik Yak的无稽之谈的地步吗？”托比会平静地说道。“看看网上那些匿名评论。就算我有利爪和高度发展的野性本能，我也会颤抖，。”
At a Marie Claire dinner for “Veep” at The Spotify House, I asked Tyler Winklevoss, who is developing a stock market for Bitcoin with his twin brother, to explain the invisible currency.
在The Spotify House参加《嘉人Marie Claire》为《二当家》(Veep)举行的晚宴时，我要求泰勒·文克尔沃斯(Tyler Winklevoss)介绍一下比特币，他与孪生兄弟正在为比特币开发股票市场。
“Bitcoin is Internet money,” he said. “It’s a value transfer protocol.”
“比特币是一种互联网货币，”他说。“是一种价值转移协议。”
When I asked about the nefarious Bitcoin transactions in the Internet netherworld, Winklevoss protested: “People use cash every second of the day to do illegal things. Bitcoin is traceable and cash is anonymous.”
当我问及黑暗网络世界中有关比特币的非法交易时，文克尔沃斯抗议道，“人们每一秒钟都在用现金做违法的事情。比特币可以追踪来源，而现金却无法追踪。”
If Toby deigned to accept the Marie Claire invitation, he no doubt would interpolate: “Bitcoin more transparent? Balderdash! We don’t even know who invented it. It’s Disney dollars for tech nerds.”
如果托比屈尊接受《嘉人Marie Claire》的邀请，毫无疑问，他会插嘴，“比特币更透明？胡说八道！我们甚至不知道谁发明了这种货币。这相当于供科技宅们使用的迪士尼纸币。”
Then there was my interview with Alex Winter, who graduated from playing Bill in “Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure” to create an Epix documentary about the Darknet, where the Silk Road marketplace operated with Bitcoin, called “The Deep Web.”
后来我采访了亚历克斯·温特(Alex Winter)，他从在《比尔和泰德的奇异冒险》(Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure)中扮演比尔发展到拍摄由Epix投资的有关黑暗网络的纪录片《深网》(The Deep Web)。非法的丝绸之路网站(Silk Road)就在暗网中利用比特币进行交易。
“It’s like looking under the hood of the Internet,” Winter said, arguing that the Deep Web is “largely used for good” by government agencies, dissidents and journalists.
“这就像是打开互联网的机箱盖进行观察，”温特说，他辩称深网基本上被政府机构、异见人士、记者“用于好的方面”。
But Toby would certainly beg to differ, scoffing, “It’s a first-rate bazaar for drug dealers, child pornography peddlers, illegal arms salesman and Bitcoin burglars.”
但托比肯定会保持不同意见，并嘲笑称，“这对贩毒者、儿童色情作品的兜售者、非法军火销售商及偷盗比特币的盗贼来说是一个一流的市场。”
If I dragged Toby to the panel with Dan Rather and the former Obama adviser Dan Pfeiffer, he would twitch at the exuberance of Pfeiffer predicting a Meerkatting “revolution” in coverage. And Toby would put his paws together, as many in the audience did, when Rather advised prudence during this tech “orgy of delight” and insisted that journalists will always be needed to separate the “brass tacks from the bull shine.”
如果拉着托比参加丹·拉瑟(Dan Rather)和奥巴马的前顾问丹·法伊弗(Dan Pfeiffer)出席的讨论会，他会在法伊弗慷慨激昂地预言新闻报道领域会出现Meerkat“革命”时，全身抽搐。当拉瑟建议在这种“科技狂欢”中保持谨慎，并坚称记者永远为人们所需要，以便“甄别真假好坏”时，托比会双爪合十，就像很多观众那样。
Toby would sniff that South by Southwest was more social than media and prowl off to catch up with Judd Apatow.
托比会对“西南偏南”大会嗤之以鼻，认为其社交性超过了其媒体作用， 他会跑掉，和贾德·阿帕托(Judd Apatow)叙旧。