The world, too, is waiting anxiously for this election to be over:
全世界也都在焦急地等着这场选举结束。
In India, right-wing Hindus who pray at their temple for Donald Trump to defeat Islamic extremism. In Saudi Arabia, a crown prince who engaged in a Twitter war with Trump. (“Dopey Prince,” Trump called him.) In Mexico, economists who predict that the peso will plummet if Trump wins. In Japan, a generation that has taken U.S. military protection for granted, but worries that it might no longer be able to do so.
在印度，右翼印度教教徒在寺庙里祈祷唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)能够打败伊斯兰极端主义。在沙特阿拉伯，一名王子在Twitter上和特朗普打了一场嘴仗。（特朗普叫他“呆瓜王子”）在墨西哥，经济学家预测，如果特朗普获胜，比索将暴跌。在日本，把美国的军事保护当做理所当然的一代人担心，美国可能无法再提供这种保护。
But regardless of who wins, after a presidential campaign marred by scandal, political violence, allegations of corruption and fears of voter fraud, America’s image stands tarnished in the eyes of its own people and the world.
但不管谁获胜，在一场受到丑闻、政治暴力、腐败指控和选举作弊担忧破坏的总统竞选过后，不管是在国内民众还是全世界的眼里，美国的形象都受到了损害。
The United States has always attracted its share of international criticism on foreign policy, especially during the Iraq War. But rarely has its political system been subjected to such widespread scorn and ridicule. Eight short years after the nation was lauded for overcoming its deepest prejudice by electing a black president, this campaign has laid bare an ugly underbelly of U.S. politics. And it has exposed the capacity of a nation defined by its democratic ideals to fall victim to the same anti-democratic forces that have stymied Third World countries.
美国一向在外交政策上受到国际社会的批评，尤其是在伊拉克战争(Iraq War)期间。但其政治制度甚少遭到如此广泛的奚落和嘲笑。美国曾因选举出了一名黑人总统而受到赞扬，被指战胜了自身根深蒂固的偏见。不过八年，这场竞选便将美国政治丑陋的弱点暴露无遗。此外，它还暴露出一个以民主理念著称的国家，是多么容易沦为反民主力量的受害者。也正是这些力量令第三世界国家陷入困境。
How much luster the U.S. brand has lost is hard to quantify. Global polls, taken largely before the campaign’s worst moments, still find the United States the world’s most admired country. Tourism and foreign direct investment are down, but not shockingly so.
美国失去了多少光彩难以量化。主要是在大选最糟糕的时刻到来之前进行的全球民调发现，美国依然是全世界最令人羡慕的国家。旅游和外国直接投资在减少，但幅度并不令人震惊。
But the shift is clear nonetheless. In interviews, Americans who travel overseas and foreign observers say that tourists who once felt themselves the envy of the world now feel the sting of embarrassment. Businesses that once marketed their jeans and fleece jackets internationally as tiny pieces of the American dream are being advised to revamp their ad campaigns.
不过这种转变很明显。在采访中，出国的美国人和外国观察人士称，美国游客曾经觉得自己是全世界忌妒的对象，现在则感受到了难堪的痛苦。一度在全世界推销自己的牛仔裤和抓绒夹克，称它们是美国梦小小组成部分的企业，正在被建议调整各自的广告宣传。
U.S. diplomats more accustomed to mediating other countries’ disputes are now being called on to defend American democracy in the face of allegations that the election is “rigged.”
更习惯于调解他国争端的美国外交官，现在被要求在面对选举受到“暗箱操纵”的指控时捍卫美国的民主。
“I think it has affected the way that people see us,” said R. Nicholas Burns, a veteran diplomat who was undersecretary of state for political affairs under President George W. Bush. “They don’t expect that from the United States. We are the people who go and monitor other people’s elections.”
“我觉得它影响了人们看待我们的方式，”曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)任内担任政治事务副国务卿的资深外交官R·尼古拉斯·伯恩斯(R. Nicholas Burns)说道。“他们没想到美国会发生这种事。我们本来才是去观察人家选举的人。”
Across the planet, people are contemplating the possibility that the United States might not be so exceptional after all.
全世界的人都在思考一种可能性，即美国或许根本没有那么出类拔萃。
“Much of the world is no longer in awe of you,” said Lyall Mercer, managing director of a public relations company in Australia.
“世界很多地方不再敬畏你，”澳大利亚一家公关公司的董事总经理莱尔·默瑟(Lyall Mercer)说。
Mercer noted that state lawmakers in Sydney had recently adopted a resolution by unanimous accord that described Trump as a “revolting slug.”
默瑟指出，在悉尼的州议员最近达成一致意见，正式通过了一项决议。该决议称特朗普是一个“令人作呕的鼻涕虫”。
“Of course I understand this is about the candidate and not the country,” Mercer said. “But the very fact that they were willing to do this, with not one MP speaking against it — despite knowing they were ridiculing someone who could be the next president of our most important ally — I think speaks to the diminishing awe, or even respect.”
“当然，我明白这是针对那个候选人，而不是那个国家的，”默瑟说。“但他们愿意这么做，没有一个议员反对——尽管知道他们正在嘲笑的这个人可能会成为我们最重要盟友的下一任总统——这个事实，我想说明了对美国的敬畏，甚至尊重正在减少。”
In Lebanon, where the United States’ image had already been battered — first by the 2003 invasion of Iraq, then by President Barack Obama’s disengagement from the region — its staunchest defenders have been quieted.
在黎巴嫩，美国的形象本已受损——先是2003年入侵伊拉克，后又因为贝拉克·奥巴马总统从该地区撤军。在这里，美国最坚定的捍卫者已经被迫闭上了嘴。
“Even during the worst days of anti-Americanism in the Middle East, there were always pockets of people who had studied in the U.S. who still looked up to the United States,” said Hisham Melhem, a correspondent for An-Nahar, Lebanon’s leading daily newspaper. “Now, many of them have given up on the United States as a beacon of progress and enlightenment.”
“即便是在中东反美情绪最高涨的时期，也总有一小批在美国留过学的人依然仰慕美国，”黎巴嫩首屈一指的日报《白天报》(An-Nahar)的记者希沙姆·梅列姆(Hisham Melhem)说。“现在，他们中的很多人都不再把美国当做进步和启蒙的灯塔。”
Arabs skeptical of U.S. efforts to promote democracy in the region have eaten up allegations of sexual misconduct and embarrassing email leaks in the campaign, Melhem said: “They are mocking the American democratic process in ways that I’ve never seen before, and I’ve been covering elections since the early 1980s.”
对美国在该地区的民主宣传活动持怀疑态度的阿拉伯人相信了竞选中的性骚扰指控和令人难堪的电子邮件泄密事件。梅列姆说：“他们嘲笑美国这一民主程序的方式我以前从未见过，而我从80年代初就开始报道选举了。”
In Russia, which is accused of hacking into the emails that have dogged Hillary Clinton’s campaign, newscasters portray the United States as under the control of dark, secretive forces. Vesti, a nightly news program in Moscow, reported that the firebombing of a Trump campaign office in North Carolina was an example of “attempts to kill those who have different views.”
在被控侵入希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的电子邮件，令其竞选大受影响的俄罗斯，新闻播音员把美国描绘成处在黑暗的神秘力量的控制下。每晚播出的莫斯科新闻节目《Vesti》报道，特朗普在北卡罗来纳州的一处竞选办公室被燃烧弹烧毁是“企图杀害持不同意见者”的例子。
Then there is Europe, where 85 percent of people in a recent Pew Research Center poll reported having no confidence in Trump to “do the right thing regarding world affairs.” There, his very popularity has tarnished America’s image.
然后还有欧洲，皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)近期的民调表明，85%的欧洲人不相信特朗普会“在国际事务方面做正确的事”。他的受欢迎程度令美国在欧洲的形象受损。
“The overwhelming question that you get about the presidential election is ‘What are you people thinking?'” said Jeremy Shapiro, the Boston-born research director of the European Council on Foreign Relations. Although Europeans have been troubled by their own right-wing populists, “they expect the United States to be a rock of stability, a safety net they can rely on,” he said.
“关于这次总统大选，被问到最多的一个问题是：‘你们的人到底在想什么？’”波士顿出生的欧洲对外关系委员会的研究主任杰里米·夏皮罗(Jeremy Shapiro)说。尽管欧洲人也为自己的右翼民粹主义者所困扰，“他们还是希望美国成为稳定的基石，可以依赖的安全网，”他说。
And the scorn does not fall solely on Trump.
鄙视不仅仅落在特朗普头上。
K. Riva Levinson, who leads a boutique international consulting firm in Washington, said that during a recent trip to Ghana, people expressed disillusionment with what they saw as the unfairness of the Democratic primary contest between Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt.
K·利瓦·莱文森(K. Riva Levinson)在华盛顿领导着一家高端国际咨询公司，他说在最近去加纳旅行，那里的人们对于克林顿和佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)在民主党初选中的不公平竞争现象感到失望。
“America is not a monarchy,” she said people told her. “It is not an office you are entitled to, either by birth or by marriage.”
“美国不是君主制国家，”她说那里的人对她这样说。“那个职位并不是天赋的，不管是通过出身还是通过婚姻。”
Others ask what has happened to the United States and its political talent pool, to result in two nominees so widely despised.
还有人问，美国和它的政治人才库到底是怎么了，为什么会选出这样两个广受鄙视的候选人。
“These are the two best candidates they have to run the biggest economy and oldest democracy in the world?” asked Arvind Gupta, national head of digital and technology for India’s ruling party.
“这就是他们为世界上最大的经济体与世界上最古老的民主政体选出的两位最佳执政候选人吗？”印度执政党的全国数字与技术负责人阿尔温德·古普塔(Arvind Gupta)说。
Perhaps the most important change in the image of the United States, however, is the one taking place within its own borders.
然而，美国形象最重要的变化或许还是发生在国内。
Americans’ trust in the political system has been shaken, whether because they believe Trump’s claims that it is rigged or because he has gotten so close to the presidency. Fifteen percent of voters have no confidence that their ballots will be properly counted, up from 6 percent in 2004, a New York Times/CBS News poll found.
美国人对政治系统的信任在动摇，不管是因为他们相信特朗普说的，政治系统是被非法操纵了，抑或是因为特朗普已经如此接近总统之位。根据《纽约时报》与CBS新闻台的民意调查，15%的选民对于自己的选票是否能够被正确计数没有信心，2004年这个数字仅有6%。
“I believe, like Trump does, that the system is rigged,” said Ted Gregory, 79, of Camp Hill, Pennsylvania.
“我和特朗普的想法一样，整个系统被非法操纵了，”来自宾夕法尼亚州希尔营(Camp Hill)79岁的泰德·格里高利(Ted Gregory)说。
To Gregory, a retired business owner who travels abroad frequently, that loss of faith has gone hand in hand with what he sees as a decline in America’s stature, starting under Bush and continuing under Obama.
格里高利是一个退休的企业主，经常出国旅行，对于他来说，失去信念是与目睹美国地位的下降同时来临的，这种地位下降从布什伊始，到奥巴马时代仍在继续。
“I’m old enough to remember when you told someone that you were from the United States, they thought, ‘Lucky you,'” he said. “Now, I don’t know what they think.”
“我活得够久，还记得以前的时候，如果你告诉别人你是从美国来的，他们会觉得，‘你真走运’，”他说。“现在我可不知道他们会想些什么。”
Simon Anholt, an independent policy adviser who developed a poll of 25,000 people in 20 countries called the Nation Brands Index, said the United States had fallen to the world’s seventh-most-admired country after the Iraq War, but rebounded to No. 1 after Obama’s election.
西蒙·安霍尔特(Simon Anholt)是一位独立政策顾问，曾在20个国家的2.5万人中开展一项名为“国家品牌索引”(Nation Brands Index)的调查，他说，伊拉克战争后，美国在全世界最受喜爱的国家排行中跌倒第七位，但是自奥巴马当选后又回升到第一位。
Its image is unlikely to suffer lasting damage, he said, as long as the country does not carry out Trump’s promises to scrap trade agreements and military alliances.
美国的形象不大可能一直受损，他说，只要这个国家不执行特朗普承诺的撕毁贸易协定与废除军事同盟的政策。
“People don’t like countries that withdraw from the international sphere,” Anholt said, pointing to the tarnishing of Britain’s image after it voted to leave the European Union.
“人们不喜欢从国际领域内抽身的国家，”安霍尔特说道。他指出，英国全民公决离开欧盟后，形象便受到了损害。