James van der Velden wanted something out of the ordinary in a home. But not in the conventional sense. He wasn’t interested, for example, in any of the beautiful 17th-century townhouses this city is known for.
詹姆斯·范·德·费尔登(James van der Velden)想找一个非同凡响的住处。不过，他眼里的非同凡响，可与传统的路数不一样。比如说，虽然精美的17世纪联排别墅是这座城市有名的建筑，但他并不感兴趣。
“I had been looking for an extraordinary property for quite some time,” said Mr. Van der Velden, 29, “when I came across this garage.”
“我找了很久，想找一套不一般的房子，”29岁的范·德·费尔登说，“后来偶然发现了这间车库。”
An abandoned commercial building from the 1950s, it wasn’t what most people would consider special, or even particularly interesting. And it needed a lot of work. But Mr. Van der Velden is an architect and interior designer, so that was fine with him.
这是一座20世纪50年代的废弃商业建筑，在大多数人眼里，它并无独特之处，甚至连特别的吸引力也不具备。而且装修起来颇费一番工夫。不过范·德·费尔登是一名建筑师和室内设计师，所以这对他来说不是问题。
“The moment I walked into the garage for the first time, I had an idea of what I wanted to do,” he said. “So the design process went quite quickly.”
“我第一次走进车库的那一刻，就知道自己想做什么了，”他说，“所以设计过程进展得很快。”
After buying the building in late 2012 for a little over $600,000, he set about turning the 1,450-square-foot space into his idea of a home. And nearly a year later, with the $200,000 renovation complete, he moved in.
2012年末，他以略高于60万美元（约合人民币364万元）的价格买下了这栋车库楼，然后着手将这个1450平方英尺（约合135平方米）的空间，布置成了自己心目中的家。将近一年后，耗资20万美元（约合人民币121万元）的装修工程竣工，他搬了进去。
It still looks more or less the same from the outside. But behind the roll-down garage door, and past a small parking space, there is now a floor-to-ceiling wall of glass and steel. Step through the double doors and you’ll find a modern, black-and-white kitchen. A rustic wood table that Mr. Van der Velden designed runs along the center of the room, with two huge industrial lights suspended over it — a homage, he said, to the history of the space.
从外面看，车库跟以前没什么区别。不过，在卷帘门后、小停车位前，现在树起了一面由玻璃和钢材制成的墙，从地板一直延伸到天花板。穿过双开门，你就会看到一间装潢现代、黑白色调的厨房。范·德·费尔登设计的原木桌子摆放在厨房中央，两台巨大的工厂照明器悬挂于其上方——他说，这样设计是为了向车库的历史岁月致敬。
The living area beyond is double-height, with a glass atrium that brings light into the space. More glass-and-steel walls surround a central courtyard open to the elements, where there is a garden with potted plants. (When it rains, water flows to a central drainage system.)
再往里走就是居住区，双层挑高设计，中庭采用玻璃建材，能将光线投进室内。玻璃和钢材筑造的墙体环绕着中央天井，天井敞开着，任凭风吹雨打。天井里有一座花园，里面摆放着盆栽植物（下雨时，雨水就会流进中央排水系统）。
“The garage was one big, open space, so we had to make all the walls to create the rooms,” Mr. Van der Velden said.
“车库是一个巨大的开放式空间，所以我们必须筑起所有的墙，把房间分隔出来，”范·德·费尔登说。
Even so, he added: “The biggest job was taking a part out of the roof to create the inside garden. But this was a very important feature for me: to have this open interior space.”
即便如此，他接着说，“最大的工程还是给屋顶‘开天窗’，建出一个室内花园。不过对我来说，营造这样一个开放的室内空间，是居家环境的一个很重要的特色。”
On the other side of the garden are two bedrooms: a guest room with a small bathroom and the master bedroom suite, which is dominated by a motorcycle perched on top of the shelves opposite the bed.
花园的另一边是两间卧室：一间带小浴室的客卧，和一间主卧套房。一台摩托车占据着主卧套房的制高点，盘踞在床对面的搁架上。