In a startling political maneuver before tens of millions of viewers, Donald J. Trump accused Hillary Clinton of smearing women who had accused Bill Clinton of sexually assaulting or harassing them. It turned their presidential debate Sunday night into the tawdriest in modern history as he sought to salvage his presidential candidacy after explosive reports about his past lewd comments about women.
在数千万观众面前，唐纳德·J·特朗普采取了惊人的政治策略，他指责希拉里·克林顿诽谤那些指控比尔·克林顿性侵犯或骚扰她们的女人。这将周日晚上两人的交锋变成了现代史上最为粗俗的一场总统辩论，在曾使用下流语言评价女性的爆炸性报道出来之后，特朗普在这场辩论中力图挽救自己的总统竞选。
Tense at first, and then increasingly angry as he grew more comfortable on the attack, Mr. Trump made the charges and noted that three of Mr. Clinton’s accusers were sitting in the audience.
特朗普起先有些紧张，在适应了进攻之后，他变得越来越愤怒，他对希拉里·克林顿发出了上述指责，并强调，三位曾经指控比尔·克林顿的女性就坐在观众席上。
Both candidates were visibly uneasy throughout the debate, even refusing to shake hands when they took the stage, as the 90-minute event unfolded on a small stage with an almost unremitting hostility.
整场辩论之中，两位候选人的不安都显而易见，他们上台时甚至拒绝握手，随着这场90分钟的辩论进行，小小舞台上的敌意几乎从未间断。
“Bill Clinton was abusive to women. Hillary Clinton attacked those same women — attacked them viciously,” Mr. Trump said, arguing that the accusations against Mr. Clinton were “far worse” than Mr. Trump’s remarks in 2005 that he could kiss and grope women because he was “a star.”
“比尔·克林顿侮辱女性。希拉里·克林顿则攻击这些女人——恶毒地攻击她们，”特朗普说道，他还认为针对比尔·克林顿的指控比自己在2005年的言论要“严重得多”，当时他说，因为自己是个“名人”，就可以随意亲吻女人，对她们动手动脚。
Mr. Trump apologized for those remarks but also repeatedly minimized them as “locker-room talk,” and even tried to blame Mrs. Clinton for raising them in light of Mr. Clinton’s behavior.
特朗普为这些言论而道歉，但他一再将它们淡化为“更衣室谈话”，甚至试图指责希拉里·克林顿是因为比尔·克林顿的行为才刻意提出它们的。
“She brings up words that I said 11 years ago — I think it’s disgraceful, and she should be ashamed of herself, to tell you the truth,” Mr. Trump said to scattered applause.
“她拿出我11年前说过的那些话——我觉得这非常可耻，说实话，她应该为自己感到羞愧，”特朗普的话获得了稀稀拉拉的掌声。
Mrs. Clinton did not specifically rebut Mr. Trump’s charges about Mr. Clinton’s behavior, saying only, “So much of what he just said is not right.”
希拉里·克林顿并没有明确反驳特朗普对比尔·克林顿行为的指责，只是说，“他刚才说的那些话有很多是不对的。”
Instead, she broadened her indictment of Mr. Trump beyond the 2005 recording, assailing him for refusing to show contrition for his inflammatory statements.
而她将谴责范围扩大到特朗普2005年的录音之外，攻击他从未就自己那些挑衅的言论表示追悔。
“He never apologizes to anybody for anything,” Mrs. Clinton said. She unfurled a litany of his provocations, including his mocking a Gold Star family, accusing a Hispanic judge of being biased by virtue of his ethnicity, ridiculing a reporter who has a disability, and falsely claiming that President Obama was not born in America.
“他从来没为任何事向任何人道过歉，”克林顿说道。之后，她又列举了一大串他的挑衅言辞，包括嘲讽一个“金星家庭”、指责一个西班牙裔法官因其种族而带有偏见、嘲笑一位身有残疾的记者、谎称奥巴马总统并不是在美国出生。
“Yes, this is who Donald Trump is,” Mrs. Clinton said about his 2005 remarks. “The question for us, the question our country must answer, is that this is not who we are.”
“是的，唐纳德·特朗普就是这样的人，”克林顿说起他2005年的那番话。“我们以及我们的国家必须回答的问题是，我们并不是这样的人。”
After a tumultuous political weekend, the debate was watched extremely closely by Republican members of Congress, who are deciding whether to join dozens of elected Republican officials who have broken away from their party’s nominee.
经过了一个充满政治喧嚣的周末，共和党国会议员们尤为关注这场辩论，他们正在决定是否要像那数十名民选共和党官员一样，与特朗普这位共和党提名候选人划清界限。
Mr. Trump’s attacks on the Clintons — including a promise that, as president, he would appoint a special prosecutor to investigate Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server as secretary of state — were a new low in a presidential campaign that has often seemed like a race to the bottom because of Mr. Trump’s no-holds-barred assaults on his rivals.
由于特朗普对竞争对手无所不用的攻击，这场竞选已被普遍视为比拼着拉低下限的竞选，而他对克林顿夫妇的攻击——包括承诺若是当选总统，将委派一名特别检察官调查希拉里·克林顿在担任国务卿期间使用私人电子邮件服务器处理公务一事——再度刷新了下限。
But no single answer by Mr. Trump seemed sufficient to put to rest the controversy over his remarks about women. As much as he apologized, he did not confess or reveal anything new about his treatment of women over the years. Nor did he say much to meet the goal set on Saturday by his running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana: “Show what is in his heart.”
但是特朗普的任何回答，都不足以平息他那段对女性的评论所引发的争议。尽管他道了歉，但是并没有承认自己多年来对待女性的方式有什么问题，也没有展示出什么新内容。他说的话也没有达到自己的竞选伙伴、印第安纳州的迈克·彭斯州长(Gov. Mike Pence)在星期六所设下的目标，“袒露他的内心”。
Instead, Mr. Trump alternated between sounding chastened and defensive about his treatment of women and moving to energize his base, which remains deeply hostile to Mrs. Clinton.
在对待女性的方式这方面，特朗普时而听上去很愧疚，时而听上去很戒备，之后便转而为自己的基础选民打气，他们仍然对希拉里·克林顿充满深深的敌意。
He did so by blasting Mrs. Clinton relentlessly over her State Department email practices and repeatedly interrupting her, barely concealing his contempt. He said again that Mrs. Clinton should be “ashamed” of herself for deleting some of her personal emails while secretary of state.
他不停地指责克林顿在担任国务卿期间使用私人邮箱的问题，并一再打断她的话，几乎完全不掩饰自己的蔑视。他再次表示，希拉里·克林顿应该为自己删除了若干在担任国务卿期间的私人邮件而感到“羞愧”。
“Oh, you didn’t delete them?” he said sarcastically. When she tried to answer, Mr. Trump again interjected. “What about the other 15,000?” he demanded.
“哦，那你没删掉它们？”他讽刺地说道。当她试图回答时，特朗普再次插话。“那其他的1.5万封邮件呢？”他问。
Finally, Mrs. Clinton, plainly exasperated, shot back: “O.K., Donald. I know you’re into big diversion tonight — anything to avoid talking about your campaign and the way it’s exploding and the way Republicans are leaving you.”
最后，明显被激怒的克林顿反击道：“好吧，唐纳德，我知道你今天晚上很想转移话题——只要别说你的选举，别说它是怎么崩溃的，别说共和党员们是怎么离你而去的就行。”
At several points, Mr. Trump expressed his frustration with the two moderators, Anderson Cooper of CNN and Martha Raddatz of ABC, demanding that Mr. Cooper focus more on one of Mrs. Clinton’s biggest vulnerabilities, her email server.
特朗普还数次对来自CNN台的安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)和ABC台的玛莎·拉达兹(Martha Raddatz)这两位辩论主持人表示不满，要求库珀把注意力更多放在克林顿的最大弱点——邮件门事件上。
“Why aren’t you bringing up the emails?” he asked, before flatly accusing the moderators of conspiring against him. “It’s nice, one on three,” he said.
“你们为什么不谈那些邮件？”他问，之后又公然指责两位主持人对自己搞阴谋。“一对三，真不错，”他说。
Mr. Trump appeared more confident and aggressive than he did in the first debate, often dismissing Mrs. Clinton’s arguments out of hand and painting her as a politician “for 30 years” who had no record of accomplishment.
比起第一场辩论，特朗普显得自信了很多，也更加富于攻击性，他经常不假思索地驳斥克林顿的发言，还把她描绘为从政“30年”却毫无建树的政客。
“It’s just words, folks; it’s just words,” Mr. Trump said about Mrs. Clinton policy proposals. Forty-five minutes later, he added, “It’s all talk and no action.”
“只是空话，伙计们，只是空话，”特朗普这样评论克林顿的施政方针。五分钟后，他又补充说，“只是空谈，没有行动。”
“Well, here we go again,” Mrs. Clinton said, arguing that Mr. Trump was misstating her record and getting his facts wrong. When Mr. Trump tried to interject, Mr. Cooper cut him off. “Please allow her to respond,” he said. “She didn’t interrupt you.”
“好吧，又来了，”克林顿说道，并且声称特朗普错误地陈述了她的从政记录，连事实都是错的。特朗普试图插嘴时，库珀制止了他。“请让她回答，”他说。“她之前可没有打断你。”
Asked by a Muslim audience member about Islamophobia, Mr. Trump ignored the question almost entirely. Instead of answering, he used his allotted time to suggest that Muslim Americans were not reporting the terrorists in their community and to assail Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama for refusing to use the phrase “radical Islamic terrorism.”
一名穆斯林观众问起伊斯兰恐惧症的问题，特朗普几乎完全无视了这个问题。在拨给他的时间里，他不仅没有回答问题，还暗示美国穆斯林们没有举报自己社区内的恐怖分子，攻击克林顿与奥巴马拒绝使用“激进的伊斯兰恐怖主义”这个说法。
Mrs. Clinton, striding past Mr. Trump to approach the audience member, accused Mr. Trump of engaging in “demagogic rhetoric about Muslims.” She took aim at his criticism of the family of Capt. Humayun Khan, the Army officer killed in Iraq whose parents Mr. Trump mocked.
克林顿大步经过特朗普，走近这名观众，指责特朗普使用“针对穆斯林的煽动性修辞”。她抨击他对胡马雍·汗(Humayun Khan)上尉家人的批评，当时特朗普讽刺这位在伊拉克遇害的陆军军官的父母。
Mr. Trump called Captain Khan “an American hero.” But when pressed on whether he had backed off his proposal to ban Muslim immigration to America — as his running mate flatly said last week that he had — he refused to say unambiguously that he no longer supported the idea.
特朗普说汗上尉是“一位美国英雄”。但在被问到是否已经收回了禁止穆斯林移民进入美国的提议时——上个星期，他的竞选伙伴斩钉截铁地表示他已经收回——他拒绝明确表示自己不再支持这个主意。
“It’s called extreme vetting,” he said, employing a phrase he has previously used to describe his proposal.
“这叫做极端审查(extreme vetting)，”他使用了自己之前曾用来描述这个提议的说法。
Mr. Trump then accused Mrs. Clinton of supporting a huge increase of refugees to America, prompting Mrs. Clinton to vow that she would not “let anyone into our country that I think poses a risk to us.”
特朗普然后又指责克林顿支持大幅度增加进入美国的难民人数，要求克林顿发誓自己不会“让任何我觉得有可能对我们构成危险的的人进入我们的国家”。
The night unfolded in striking and often dramatic fashion. Shortly before the debate, Mr. Trump held a brief news conference in St. Louis with three women — Paula Jones, Juanita Broaddrick and Kathleen Willey — who allege that Mr. Clinton sexually assaulted or harassed them during his years in office in Arkansas or as president. They were joined by a fourth woman, Kathy Shelton, who was 12 when she was raped by a 41-year-old man in Arkansas; Mrs. Clinton represented the man, who ultimately pleaded guilty to a reduced charge.
这个晚上以惊人的、富有戏剧性的方式徐徐展开。就在辩论开始前不久，特朗普在圣路易斯与那三个指控比尔·克林顿曾在担任阿肯色州州长或担任总统期间对她们实施性侵或性骚扰的女人——葆拉·琼斯(Paula Jones)、胡安妮塔·布罗德里克(Juanita Broaddrick)与凯瑟琳·威利(Kathleen Willey)——召开了一个简短的新闻发布会。此外还有第四位女人——凯西·谢尔顿(Kathy Shelton)，12岁那年，她在阿肯色州被一个41岁的男人强暴；希拉里·克林顿曾为那个男人辩护，他最终认罪以获取减刑。
Mr. Trump’s gambit — which was broadcast on Facebook Live — was intended to rattle Mrs. Clinton before the debate, but it went against the advice of leading Republicans and even some of Mr. Trump’s own loyalists that he resist the temptation of targeting women tied to Mr. Clinton.
这场新闻发布会在Facebook Live上进行了直播，特朗普的策略就是要在辩论之前打乱希拉里·克林顿的阵脚，但是这违背了一些共和党领袖，甚至是他的一些忠诚支持者们的建议，他们希望他抵制诱惑，不要再将靶子对准和比尔·克林顿有关的女人们。