Add this twist to the panoply of websites that promise to fill the holes in your love life: Sites that are aimed at married men who want to add wives, and single women who’d be happy sharing a spouse.
把这新玩意加入到许诺帮你摆脱感情生活困境的网站收藏吧：它们是两个面向希望寻找更多妻子的已婚男性，以及愿意与他人分享丈夫的单身女性的网站。
Certain that there were plenty of people in the world who’d be interested in such a service — and willing to pay for it — Azad Chaiwala, a 33-year-old British entrepreneur of Pakistani origin, created what he said were the world’s first matchmaking sites for aspiring polygamists.
世界上有很多人对这样的服务感兴趣，并愿意为其付费。33岁的阿扎德·沙瓦拉(Azad Chaiwala)是一名巴基斯坦裔英国企业家，他建立了自称是世界上第一个为一夫多妻者服务的交友网站。
He started SecondWife.com, aimed specifically at Muslims, in late 2014, followed by Polygamy.com, which is open to anyone, this year.
2014年底，他建立了服务于穆斯林群体的Secondwife.com。今年，他又建立了针对所有人的Polygamy.com。
The sites now have tens of thousands of members, Mr. Chaiwala said. Most registered users are in Britain or the United States, even though bigamy is a crime in both countries. But some members log in from India, Pakistan, or other countries in Asia or Africa where it can be legal.
沙瓦拉表示，这两个网站现在有上万的用户。其中绝大多数的注册用户来自英国和美国，虽然重婚在这两个国家都是犯罪行为。还有一些用户来自印度、巴基斯坦等一些亚非国家，在这些地方，一夫多妻是合法的。
While he has no way to know how many polygamous marriages his sites may have facilitated, Mr. Chaiwala said he had received more than 100 letters from users thanking him for guiding them toward multiple-marital bliss.
不过，他的网站促成了多少重婚行为，就不得而知了。沙瓦拉称，他已经收到了超过100封来自用户的感谢信，感谢他指引他们享受了一夫多妻的欢愉。
Mr. Chaiwala speaks of his sites with an evangelist’s fervor, hoping to spread the idea that polygamy offers a pro-family antidote to promiscuity, prostitution, divorce and broken homes. He dismisses those who criticize polygamy as anachronistic, saying it is better than adultery or one-night stands facilitated by apps like Tinder.
说起他的网站，沙瓦拉有种传道者的热情。他希望告诉更多人，一夫多妻为家庭优先主义者提供了一种选择，以避免滥交、卖淫、离婚以及家庭破碎的情况。有些人批评一夫多妻是不被当今社会接受的时代遗毒，沙瓦拉却不这么认为；在他看来，一夫多妻比Tinder这样的社交应用催生的通奸或是一夜情要好。
“I am saying, ‘Marry two or three, and be loyal to them,’ ” he said.
“我的意思是，‘和两三个女人结婚，然后对婚姻忠诚。’”他说。
Creating a profile on either site is free, but to browse profile photos, you need to upgrade to a paid membership of $20 a month or $45 for three months.
尽管用户注册这两个网站是免费的，但如果你想看查看其它用户的照片，就需要升级账户，付每个月20美元的会员费，或者45美元三个月。
Three-quarters of the users on SecondWife.com are men, Mr. Chaiwala said, but most of the profiles on Polygamy.com are posted by women. He guesses that many women don’t want the obligation of a full-time husband, or consider it a plus that a man is already married.
沙瓦拉表示，四分之三的Secondwife.com用户是男性，Polygamy.com的大多数用户是女性。对于这种差异，他猜测是因为对许多女性来说，她们并不需要一个尽全职义务的丈夫，或者她们认为已婚的男人更好。
“If they are capable of taking care of one wife, perhaps they are capable of taking care of me,” Mr. Chaiwala said, speculating on what women might be thinking.
“如果那些已婚男人能照顾好一个妻子，他们应该也能照顾好我。”在分析女性用户的心理时，沙瓦拉如是说。
One thing the sites are not intended to do is to help women seek out multiple husbands — a practice known as polyandry. This is not because Mr. Chaiwala opposes the idea, he said, but because it is “not a viable business proposition.”
然而这些网站并不计划帮助女性用户寻找多个丈夫——也就是一妻多夫。沙瓦拉先生解释道，并不是他反对这个观念，而是因为这“不是一桩可行的买卖”。