“I HAVE a letter for you,” my friend Kirsten tells me on the phone.
我的朋友柯尔斯滕(Kirsten)在电话中告诉我，“我这里有你的一封信。”
It’s 2013. Kirsten is an airline pilot like me. I met her when I moved from New to old England in 2001. We were in the same pilot training course, at a flight school in the emerald-green countryside north of Oxford, one of those parts of the world I now know best from the air.
那是2013年的事情。柯尔斯腾和我一样是一名航空公司飞行员。我2001年离开新英格兰来到英格兰时认识了她。我们在一家飞行学校参加同样的飞行员培训课程，该学校位于牛津以北一片翠绿乡村，那里是我在空中最熟悉的地方之一。
“I think it’s from your mother.”
“我觉得应该是你妈妈写的。”
Kirsten’s confused, or I’ve misunderstood. Kirsten and my mother never knew each other. And my mother has been dead for seven years.
不是柯尔斯腾搞错了，就是我误会了。柯尔斯腾和我母亲并不认识。而且我母亲已经去世多年。
A few weeks later Kirsten and I meet on a layover in San Francisco. After dinner at a restaurant in the Ferry Building we climb the steep hill back to our hotel. She hands me the envelope that contains the last words I’ll ever read from my mom.
几周之后，我和柯尔斯腾在旧金山停留期间见了面。我们在渡轮大厦(Ferry Building)的餐厅吃完晚饭后，爬过陡坡，回到酒店。她交给我一个信封，里面有母亲给我留下的最后的话。
The envelope is yellow, cheery, from a summer-themed set of stationery. The airmail stamps feature a wintry Mount McKinley. I turn the envelope over and run my thumb along the almost imperceptibly smooth seal made by the flap. The letter is postmarked Springfield, Mass., Aug. 30, 2002. Around then I was preparing for my pilot course’s final exam.
信封是黄色的，这种夏季主题的信封令人感到愉快。航空邮票上印着冬季的麦金利山的图像。我将信封翻过来，用拇指摩挲着那十分光滑、几乎感觉不到的信封封口。信件是2002年8月30日从马萨诸塞州斯普林菲尔德市寄出的。那时候我正在准备飞行员课程的期末考试。
In high school and college I’d taken plenty of tests, all earthbound. A characteristic of exams you take in the sky, I’d discovered, is that the date isn’t really fixed. It depends on the availability of aircraft, and on the weather — always a fickle matter in Britain, even in high summer. Such uncertainties meant that the students in my course (Kirsten, myself, and a dozen others) finished our training on different days. The day each of us was signed off by the eagle-eyed, clipboard-wielding government examiner, we left.
我在高中和大学时参加了很多考试，这些考试都是在地面上进行的。我发现了空中考试的一个特点，日期实际上是不确定的。这取决于是不是有飞机可以用，以及天气情况——英国的天气变化无常，即便是在盛夏。这些不确定性意味着，参加该课程的学员（柯尔斯腾、我和其他十几个人）在不同的日子完成了培训。抱着写字夹板的政府考官目光锐利，他们宣布其中某人结业时，那名学员就可以离开了。
As luck and meteorology would have it, I was one of the first to depart. The next day, Kirsten explained to me in San Francisco, my mother’s letter landed at the flight school. Kirsten picked it up from my mail slot, to keep until she next saw me. But a few days later, when it was her turn to leave, she misplaced the letter among the stacks of papers and logbooks she hurriedly packed into boxes.
我很幸运，而且天气很好，我成为第一批离开的学员。柯尔斯腾在旧金山告诉我，我母亲的信在我离开的第二天寄到了飞行学校。柯尔斯腾从我的邮箱里取出了这封信，并一直保存信件，直到她下一次见到我。但几天后，她要离开的时候，将信件误放在成堆的纸张和飞行日志中，匆忙之中将它们一起装进了箱子里。
The letter remained in one of those boxes for a decade, a decade in which first my father and then my mother died. In 2013, Kirsten moved to a new house and got around to sorting through some dusty belongings from her flying school days. She found the letter and picked up the phone.
这封信在箱子里放了10年，而这10年间，我的父亲和母亲相继离世。2013年，柯尔斯腾搬到了新住所，抽时间整理她在飞行学校时的物品。她在这堆布满灰尘的物品中，发现了这封信，然后拿起了电话。
It’s been two years since Kirsten gave me the letter. I still haven’t opened it. When I tell some friends this, they shake their heads. They say that they wouldn’t have been able to wait a second. Others nod and say of course, they understand.
柯尔斯腾给我这封信已经两年了，但我仍未打开。当我对一些朋友谈到此事时，他们纷纷摇头。他们说，自己会迫不及待，立刻打开。其他人则点点头，称他们当然会理解。
For now it’s enough to look at the blue stick-figure airplane my mom drew on the envelope. To emphasize the word “airmail,” of course, but surely the angle of the climbing jet’s nose is jauntier than necessary, except perhaps for an aspiring pilot. For now it’s enough to look at her handwriting, at my name in her hand, and to remember that until I open it, I know I’ll hear from her once more.
现在，看着母亲在信封上用蓝色线条画的飞机就足够了。这当然是为了强调“航空邮件”这个词，不过这架正在爬升的喷气式飞机机头的角度的确有些过于夸张，但对一位希望成为飞行员的学员而言还算恰当。现在，看着她的笔迹，看着她手写的我的名字，明白在拆信之前，我知道自己会再次看到母亲的来信就足够了。
Sometimes in travel magazines I come across detailed interviews with pilots or flight attendants about what’s in their nondescript flight bags, the personal objects that are carried so casually back and forth across the planet by the most peripatetic citizens of our age. Guidebooks, earplugs, photos of loved ones and food regularly feature.
有时候，我会在旅游杂志上看到对飞行员或空乘人员的详细采访，问他们平凡无奇的航空旅行手提包里放着什么东西。其实通常都是旅行指南、耳塞、亲人的照片，食物也经常出现。作为这个时代里最能周游世界的一群人，我们带着这些个人物品随意在全球各地往返。
For two years now, on my long flights, I’ve carried the letter. It flies with me on a Boeing 747, in a transparent plastic folder that also contains some navigation charts and notes. It’s a small thing to carry. Sometimes I wonder if any letter in history has traveled farther than this one.
长途飞行时我一直带着这封信，至今已经两年了。它体积小，很好带，和一些航行图及笔记一起放在一个透明的塑料文件夹里，跟随我乘坐波音747在各地穿梭。有时我会想，历史上还有比它游历得更远的信吗？
My mother was born in Shenandoah, Pa., in the hilly coal country of the east-central part of the state. In her high school yearbook, friends complimented her “gayety and cheerfulness” and wished “her life to be one of sweet harmony.” She studied in Boston and spent a year in Paris. She married, became a speech therapist, and spent her working life in the public schools of western Massachusetts. She loved the Berkshires and music — especially at Christmas.
我母亲出生在宾夕法尼亚州的谢南多厄。那里属于乡下，位于宾夕法尼亚的中东部，产煤，多山。在她的高中纪念册里，朋友们称赞她“轻松快乐”，并祝她“一生甜蜜和美”。她曾在波士顿求学，又在巴黎待了一年。后来，她走入婚姻，成了一名语言治疗师，并在马萨诸塞州西部的多家公立学校度过了自己的职业生涯。她喜欢伯克郡和音乐，尤其是在圣诞节的时候。
When I fly at night over the lights of eastern Pennsylvania or western Massachusetts, over the lights of her places, I think about geography and handwriting, and the softly electric lines of palmistry on the dark lands below, that look much as I imagine memory itself might. And of course I wonder — how could I not? — about her words in the envelope. She wrote at the end of a New England summer, not long after I left, not long before a test in the sky that meant the world to me. Surely, I think, she’s written to wish me luck, and to tell me the news from home, and to ask about my friends and the weather where I am now.
夜里飞越宾夕法尼亚州东部或马萨诸塞州西部这些她曾经生活过的地方的灯火，以及飞机下面那片漆黑的大地上如手掌纹路一般温柔交错的电力线路时，我会想到那里的地形和母亲的笔迹。它们看上去和我想象中记忆本身可能留下的样子差不多。我当然想知道她在信里说了什么。怎么会不想呢？她写信时正值新英格兰的夏末。当时，我刚离开不久。不久后，我就迎来了一场意义重大的空中考试。我想，她写信肯定是祝我好运、告诉我家里发生的事情、讯问我朋友的近况以及我所在的地方天气如何。