Question:
问：
What is the best time of day to exercise, if my goal is weight loss?
如果我的目标是减肥，那么一天中何时锻炼最有效？
Answer:
答：
You might try setting your wake-up alarm earlier and exercising before breakfast. There is some evidence that working out on a completely empty stomach — or, as scientists call this woozy, wee-hours condition, “in a fasted state” — prompts the body to burn more fat and potentially stave off weight gain, compared to exercising at other times.
你可以尝试把闹钟定得早一点，在早餐前锻炼。有证据表明，在完全空腹时锻炼，比在其他时间锻炼更能促进脂肪燃烧，延缓体重增加，科学家们称早上刚起这种迷迷糊糊的状态为“禁食状态”(fasted state)。
In a groundbreaking 2010 study, researchers in Belgium persuaded young, healthy men to stuff themselves for six weeks with a diet consisting of 30 percent more calories and 50 percent more fat than the men had been eating. Some of the volunteers remained sedentary while gorging. Others began a strenuous, midmorning exercise routine after they had had breakfast. The third group followed the same workout regimen, but before they had eaten anything.
在2010年的一项开创性研究中，比利时的研究者们要求一些年轻健康的男子在六周时间里比之前多摄入30%的卡路里和50%的脂肪。其中一些志愿者在暴食期间保持久坐不动。另外一些在早餐后的上午中段时间进行剧烈运动。第三组采用同样的锻炼模式，只不过在早餐前进行。
At the end of the six weeks, the sedentary group predictably was supersized and unhealthy, having gained about six pounds each. They had also developed insulin resistance and larded their muscles with new fat cells. The men who exercised after breakfast had also packed on pounds, about three pounds each, and developed insulin problems. But the men who had exercised first thing in the morning, before eating anything, had gained almost no weight and retained healthy insulin levels. Their bodies were also burning more fat throughout the day than were the other men.
六周后，久坐不动的那组人果然体形变胖，出现健康问题，体重增加了约六磅。他们还出现胰岛素抵抗的状况，肌肉上长出新的脂肪细胞。早餐后锻炼的那组人体重也增加了约三磅，出现胰岛素问题。但是早上一起床就空腹锻炼的人体重几乎没有增加，仍保持健康的胰岛素水平。他们的身体每天燃烧的脂肪也比其他组的人多。
Of course, the early-morning exercise prevented weight gain, which is not the same thing as inducing weight loss. But the results are encouraging for those who hope to shave off a few pounds, said Peter Hespel, a professor in the Research Center for Exercise and Health at Catholic University Leuven in Belgium and the study author.
当然，早起锻炼能防止体重增加，这和减肥还不是同一回事。不过，这项研究的作者、比利时卢万大学(Catholic University Leuven)锻炼与健康研究中心(Research Center for Exercise and Health)教授彼得·埃斯佩尔(Peter Hespel)说，对那些希望减掉几磅的人来说，这些研究结果令人振奋。