PALO ALTO, Calif. — He was the recently widowed dean of the nation’s top business school. She was a star professor who was estranged from her husband. They went for a walk. She invited him to a yoga class. A middle-age romance bloomed.
加州帕洛阿尔托——他是全美顶尖的一所商学院的院长，最近几年刚刚丧偶。她是一位明星教授，已经与丈夫分居。他们去散了次步，她又邀请他去参加瑜伽课，于是一场黄昏恋绽放了。
The relationship prompted a lawsuit from the estranged husband, also a professor at the school. The dean, he charged, had punished the husband to benefit his new girlfriend. The man at the center of this drama, Garth Saloner, called the case “baseless,” but resigned last month as dean of the Stanford Graduate School of Business because, he said, he did not want the litigation to dim the school’s stellar reputation.
他们的关系促使女方已经分居的丈夫提起了诉讼，他也是学校的教授。他指控称，院长为了让自己的新女友受益，惩罚了丈夫。这场闹剧的中心人物加思·塞隆纳(Garth Saloner)形容，这场官司“毫无根据”，但是上个月，他辞去了斯坦福大学商学院(Stanford Graduate School of Business)院长的职务，理由是不想让这起诉讼影响学校的声誉。
The suit is doing more than prompting questions about Mr. Saloner’s wisdom in dating a woman whose husband he oversaw, at least nominally. It has brought to light other management issues, including some involving women at the business school and at another prominent part of Stanford, the Hoover Institution.
这场官司不仅让人们质疑，塞隆纳与这个女人交往是不是明智——她的丈夫至少在名义上是塞隆纳的下属。还引出了其他一些管理问题，还牵涉了在商学院和斯坦福的另一所著名机构胡佛研究所(Hoover Institution)供职的一些女性。
At the business school, the unhappy husband’s lawsuit revealed the existence of a 2014 petition signed by 46 current and former employees — about 10 percent of the staff members — who claimed there was “a hostile work environment” that differentiated “on the basis of gender and age.”
怨恨的丈夫提起的诉讼揭露出，在商学院，46名现任和前任雇员——占全体职员的大约10%——曾在2014年签署过一份请愿书，声称“工作环境有敌意”，员工因“性别和年龄”而受到区别对待。
The uproar over the business school’s situation, in turn, led several sources, including a research fellow at Hoover, to approach The New York Times about complaints at the Hoover Institution. In early 2013, some women at Hoover, a conservative-leaning policy center, began to express dissatisfaction more widely about the work environment, saying it was a place where men hired their male friends and women were marginalized.
商学院的事件引发轩然大波，回过头来促使几位消息人士与《纽约时报》取得联系，其中包括胡佛研究所的一位研究员。他们向时报透露了胡佛研究所内部的一些抱怨。2013年初，在这所倾向保守派的政策中心供职的一些女性，开始更广泛地对工作环境表达不满，声称那里的男性经常雇佣他们的男性朋友，而女性则受到边缘化。
The university began an investigation that took several months. Women in one department at Hoover “felt the work environment has been threatening at times,” while the majority of female interviewees said it was “not always a ‘respectful’ workplace,” according to Stanford’s “summary of findings” of the investigation, copies of which were reviewed by The New York Times.
校方开展了为其数月的调查。胡佛研究所某一部门的女性“时常感到在工作环境中受到威胁”，多数女性受访者说“在工作环境中并不总是‘受到尊重’，”校方调查报告的“结论概述”中写道。时报读到了这份报告的副本。
John Etchemendy, Stanford’s provost, would not discuss the claims at the business school and at Hoover in detail. He said that Stanford had hired separate outside investigators and that neither had found systemic discrimination. But he acknowledged “weaknesses in management” and said they were being addressed.
斯坦福大学的教务长约翰·埃切门迪(John Etchemendy)，不愿就商学院和胡佛研究所员工的抱怨发表评论。他说斯坦福大学还聘请了独立的外部调查人员，两宗调查都没有发现系统性的歧视。但他承认“管理上存在不足”，并表示正在着手解决。
“We have very high standards of behavior and for the most part achieve them better than any other institution I know,” Mr. Etchemendy said in an interview. “But we sometimes fall short.”
“我们有非常高的行为标准，并且大多数时候，比我了解的任何其他机构都能更好地执行，”埃切门迪在接受采访时说。“但我们有时做的还不到位。”
Lenny Mendonca, a retired senior partner at McKinsey & Company and a former vice chairman of the business school’s advisory council, said he saw an opportunity for Stanford to address underlying gender issues.
莱尼·门东萨(Lenny Mendonca)表示，他认为这是斯坦福应对潜在性别问题的一个机会。门东萨是麦肯锡公司(McKinsey & Company)的一位退休高级合伙人，曾任商学院顾问委员会的副主席。
“There is substantial unconscious bias in Silicon Valley against women,” he said. “That isn’t going to change by assuming it will get better on its own. Stanford should be leading the way here.”
“硅谷对女性有很多无意识的偏见，”他说。“只是设想一切都会自己变好，并不能带来改变。斯坦福大学应该在这个领域先行一步。”
The troubles at the business school began with that most ordinary and sad event, a divorce. The couple in question were James A. Phills Jr. and Deborah H. Gruenfeld. Like some breakups, theirs quickly turned contentious.
商学院的麻烦开始于一件最普通、最悲伤的事件——离婚。离婚的夫妇是小詹姆斯·A·菲尔斯(James A. Phills Jr.)和黛博拉·H·格林菲尔德(Deborah H. Gruenfeld)。与其他一些分手事件一样，他们的离婚很快就引发了纠纷。
The divorce case is still proceeding after nearly three years. Ms. Gruenfeld had spent $165,000 in legal fees as of May 1, while the cost of Mr. Phills’s lawyers had risen to $260,000, plus $69,000 in therapy sessions and co-parenting counseling, according to court filings.
近三年后，离婚官司仍在审理当中。法庭文件显示，截至5月1日，格林菲尔德女士花了16.5万美元的法律费用，而菲尔斯先生的律师费已经上升到了26万美元，此外还有6.9万美元的治疗及共同抚养咨询费。
By this point, the couple cannot even agree on when they married — he says 2000 in one set of papers, she says 1999 in another.
如今，夫妻俩就连结婚的时间都没有一致意见：他在一批文件中说是在2000年，而她在另一批文件中则说是1999年。
Whatever the wedding date, soon afterward they were a joint hire for the business school. Stanford was so pleased that it gave them $1 million in housing loans that offered much better terms than any bank.
无论结婚的日期是哪天，在那之后不久，他们就被商学院同时聘用。斯坦福十分满意，以至于给他们提供了一百万美元的住房贷款，条件比任何银行都优惠。
The couple’s area of expertise was how organizations work. Ms. Gruenfeld, 53, focused on how power leads people to do stupid things. Mr. Phills, 55, concentrated on the ways nonprofit organizations could use leadership to improve. Her academic star shone brighter; he was not on a tenure track. In May 2012, Mr. Phills went on leave from Stanford and began teaching at Apple University, Apple’s training division.
这对夫妇的专长领域是组织如何运作。53岁的格林菲尔德女士主要关注权力会怎样使人做出愚蠢的事情；55岁的菲尔斯先生关注于非营利组织如何运用领导力来改进运作。她的学术成就更耀眼，而他的岗位未来并不能取得终身教职。2012年5月，菲尔斯离开了斯坦福大学，开始在苹果公司的培训部门苹果大学(Apple University)任教。
After two children and a dozen years, the marriage cratered. In June 2012, Ms. Gruenfeld moved out. The next March, she was granted a domestic violence restraining order against Mr. Phills, a former star wrestler at Harvard, after she said he was “threatening, stalking and harassing” her. In court papers, Mr. Phills called the accusation “meritless.”
在养育了两个孩子，共同生活十几年之后，婚姻出现了问题。2012年6月，格伦菲尔德搬了出去。第二年3月，她以家庭暴力为由，赢得了针对菲尔斯的禁制令，菲尔斯曾是哈佛摔跤队的明星选手。她说他曾“威胁、跟踪和骚扰她”。法庭文件显示，菲尔斯称指控“毫无法律根据”。
Enter Mr. Saloner, 60, a South Africa native enmeshed in Silicon Valley. He did pioneering early work on network effects, which let tech companies dominate their markets, and in 2001 took a two-year leave from Stanford to work with start-ups.
塞隆纳出场了。这个现年60岁的南非人在硅谷颇有人脉。他在网络效应方面做了开创性的初期工作，科技企业利用他的研究占据了市场的主导地位。2001年，他从斯坦福大学申请了为期两年的休假，与初创企业合作。
During Mr. Saloner’s tenure as dean, Stanford edged out Harvard and Wharton as the No. 1 business school in the closely watched U.S. News rankings. It opened a shiny new campus and started a state-of-the-art dorm. Mr. Saloner raised $500 million and, with Silicon Valley flush, more seemed on the way.
塞隆纳担任院长期间，在广受关注的《美国新闻与世界报道》(U.S. News and World Report)排行榜上，斯坦福挤掉哈佛和沃顿，成为排名第一的商学院。它开辟了一所崭新的校园，并启用了一所高精尖的宿舍。塞隆纳筹集到了5亿美元资金，而且随着硅谷的蓬勃发展，还会有更多资金涌来。
Mr. Saloner’s wife, Marlene, died in June 2012 after a long struggle with cancer. Some time after that, he began seeing Ms. Gruenfeld socially.
塞隆纳的妻子玛琳(Marlene)在与癌症长期斗争之后，于2012年6月去世。一段时间后，他开始公开和格林菲尔德女士交往。
Mr. Phills was simultaneously negotiating his return to Stanford. But the school wanted the money for the housing loans repaid, saying that if Ms. Gruenfeld no longer lived there, Mr. Phills did not qualify by himself.
菲尔斯同时又想谈判回到斯坦福。但校方要他还清住房贷款的钱，校方称既然格林菲尔德不再住在那里，菲尔斯一个人不符合贷款条件。
Mr. Phills sued Stanford and Mr. Saloner in April 2014. Mr. Phills, who is black, argues he was “subjected to discriminatory actions with respect to his compensation, work assignments and benefits based on his marital status, race and gender.” He is asking for unspecified damages and legal costs.
2014年4月，菲尔斯起诉了斯坦福大学和塞隆纳。身为黑人的菲尔斯认为，他“基于婚姻状况、种族和性别，在报酬、工作职责和福利方面受到了歧视。”他要求校方和塞隆纳支付赔偿金和法律费用，具体金额并未透露。
Stanford denies the claims and sued Mr. Phills in August 2015. It alleged invasion of Mr. Saloner’s privacy and computer fraud, arguing that the messages had been obtained illegally.
斯坦福大学拒绝赔偿，还在2015年8月起诉了菲尔斯。校方指控菲尔斯侵犯塞隆纳的隐私，并实施计算机欺诈，称他的信息是非法取得的。
The university said the dean had broken no university policies in his relationship with Ms. Gruenfeld. It now says it had been mistaken about needing to revoke the housing loans. Mr. Phills is still living in the house.
校方表示，塞隆纳院长和格林菲尔德女士的关系并没有违反大学的政策。现在校方表示，需要撤销住房贷款的说法是搞错了。菲尔斯仍然居住在那个房子里。