SEOUL, South Korea — Since the late 1990s, some 28,000 North Koreans have fled to South Korea.
韩国首尔——自20世纪90年代末起，已有约2.8万名朝鲜人逃到了韩国。
Only one, as far as anyone knows, has ever asked to go back.
就人们所知，他们当中只有一位想要返回朝鲜。
Kim Ryen-hi, a 45-year-old dressmaker from North Korea, says her defection to the South four years ago was a terrible mistake. She says she has been trying since she got here to return to the impoverished, repressive North to be with her husband, daughter and ailing parents. But her efforts have only brought her more trouble, including imprisonment on spying charges.
45岁的朝鲜裁缝金莲姬（音）说，她四年前脱北是一个极大的错误。她说，自从她来到韩国的第一天起，她就一直想回去，回到贫穷和专制的朝鲜，与丈夫、女儿以及生病的父母一起生活。但是，她所做的一切努力不仅仅是徒劳，还给她带来了更多麻烦，包括因被指控为间谍而受到监禁。
“Freedom and material and other lures of any kind, they are not as important to me as my family and home,” a tearful Ms. Kim said at a recent news conference in Seoul. “I want to return to my precious family, even if I die of hunger.”
“自由、物质享受以及其他的诱惑，对我而言都不及家庭重要，”她在首尔最近一次新闻发布会上哭诉，“就算会饿死，我也想回到我珍爱的家。”
But in a case full of bizarre twists and blind alleys, now it is the South Korean government that will not let her leave.
这个事件极其怪诞扭曲，到处都是死胡同，现在是韩国政府不允许她离开。
Government officials, while professing sympathy for her plight, say that as a convict on parole she is not entitled to a passport. Moreover, she became a South Korean citizen when she arrived, and under South Korean law it is illegal to help a citizen flee to the enemy North.
韩国政府虽然对她的境遇表示同情，但又说，她作为假释罪犯，无权持有护照。另外，从她踏上韩国国土的那天起，她就已经成为韩国公民，而根据韩国法律，帮助一个韩国公民逃往敌对国朝鲜是违法的。
“She became a South Korean citizen on her own will, and accordingly she is subject to laws applying to all other South Korean citizens,” said Park Soo-jin, a spokeswoman for the Unification Ministry in Seoul.
“她自愿成为韩国公民，因此韩国法律对她以及所有其他韩国公民的适用。”韩国统一部发言人朴秀珍说。
A ministry official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the highly unusual case, said, “We know of her sad story, but right now, under the current law, we see nothing we can do for her.”
一位官员匿名对这个非同寻常的案子发表了意见，“我们知道她的伤心故事，但此时此刻，在现行法律之下，我们没有能帮助她的办法。”
Ms. Kim’s improbable story began in 2011, when she traveled to China to visit relatives and obtain treatment for a liver ailment. There, she said, she met a broker who said he could smuggle her into South Korea, where she could make a lot of money in a few months and return to China.
金莲姬的荒唐故事始于2011年。那一年她到中国去探亲访友，同时治疗肝病。她说，她在中国认识了一位掮客，该人称可以把她偷带到韩国，在韩国几个月就可以赚很多钱，然后她可以再回到中国。
Although she was married to a doctor in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and well off by North Korean standards, she said she signed on with the smuggler with the aim of helping to pay her medical bills.
虽然她已经嫁给了一位平壤的医生，过上了按朝鲜标准算是相对富裕的生活，但她说，她还是与掮客签了协议，因为她想赚点钱帮助支付医药费。
At some point before arriving in the South, she realized this was a bad idea. But the smugglers had confiscated her passport and said there was no turning back.
在前往韩国之前的某一时刻，她已经意识到这是一个糟糕的想法。但掮客已经没收了她的护照，并对她说，已经没有回路了。
“I also feared that if I was caught without a passport and deported back to the North, I would be found out and treated as a traitor for trying to flee to South Korea,” she said in an interview. “I thought my best chance was to make it to South Korea, where I hoped that fellow Koreans would understand me and help me find my way home.”
“我也害怕如果被抓，发现我没有护照，就会被遣返回朝鲜，那样我会被国家视为想要逃至韩国的叛徒，”她在一次采访中说。“我以为最好的办法是到达韩国，在那里能得到同胞的理解，他们会帮助我回家。”
Passing through Thailand, she submitted a handwritten statement agreeing to defect, a requirement for North Korean refugees to be allowed to enter the South.
途径泰国时，她提交了一份手写的同意脱北书，这是朝鲜流亡者进入韩国所必须提交的。
Once she arrived in South Korea, however, she began demanding that she be allowed to return to the North. But South Korea, it turns out, has procedures to bring defectors in from the North, but not to send them back.
然而，她一到韩国就开始要求允许她返回朝鲜。但她发现，韩国只有接受脱北者的程序，没有送他们回去的途径。
She was allowed to leave the debriefing center only after she signed, as all defectors do, a document disavowing communism and agreeing to become a law-abiding citizen of the South.
她和所有脱北者一样，在一份宣誓否认共产主义、同意成为守法的韩国公民的文件上签名后，才得以离开短训中心。
Fearing that her prolonged absence from home had already put her family in Pyongyang in jeopardy, she resorted to desperate and often bewildering steps that only got her deeper into trouble.
由于担心自己离家时间太长，已经让平壤的家人处于险境，她采取了各种不顾一切、有时令人费解的做法，结果反而惹出更大的麻烦。
She met a smuggler to discuss stowing away, she said. She repeatedly called a North Korean consulate in China asking for help. Denied a South Korean passport, she tried forging one.
她说，她曾联系过一个掮客，讨论偷渡出境的事。她多次给朝鲜驻中国的一个领事馆打电话，寻求帮助。拿不到韩国护照，她就试着伪造一个。
Then she did something that she now characterizes as a dumb mistake but that appears to have been wildly ill advised. She began to spy for the North, she said, collecting cellphone numbers and other personal data of other defectors in the South.
后来她还干了一件她现在称之为愚蠢的事，她的做法显然极为失策。她说，她开始为朝鲜充当间谍，收集在韩国脱北者的手机号码和其他个人信息。
“I foolishly thought that once they believed I was spying, they would deport me as a troublemaker,” she said.
“我愚蠢地认为，一旦他们相信我是间谍，他们就会把我作为捣蛋者驱逐出境。”
She even reported her spying to the police, begging them to “please hurry and stop me,” she would later testify.
后来在法庭上作证时她还说，她甚至向警方举报了自己的间谍行为向，恳求他们“快点制止我”。
Deportation, however, is not what South Korea does with spies. In July of last year, she was arrested and charged with espionage and passport fraud.
然而，驱逐出境并非韩国处理间谍的做法。去年7月，她被警方逮捕，警方指控她犯有间谍罪和伪造护照罪。
At trial, she told the court that the North Korean consulate had instructed her to spy, and said that she had handed over her data to a Communist agent in a stadium in Seoul where she went to watch a women’s soccer match between the two Koreas in 2013.
在庭审过程中，她告诉法庭，朝鲜领事馆曾指示她做间谍，并称她已于2013年，在首尔的一个体育馆里观看朝韩女子足球比赛时，把收集到的数据交给了一名共产党特工。
She was convicted and sentenced to two years in prison. In April, after she had served nine months, an appeals court suspended her sentence, saying that her confession was a mitigating factor. She was released on parole and kept under surveillance.
她被判有罪、获得两年有期徒刑。今年4月份，在她服刑9个月之后，上诉法院决定对她暂缓处刑，认为她的自首可作为减刑的理由。她被假释，但仍处于监视之中。
“There are reasons to believe she was not a typical spy,” the court said in its ruling. The court acknowledged that Ms. Kim had wanted to return to the North from the moment she had arrived. It also determined that she had been coerced into spying by the North because she feared for her family if she did not oblige.
“有理由相信她并非典型意义上的间谍，”法院裁决书这样写道。法院认定，自从到达韩国的那一刻起，金女士就想返回朝鲜。法院还认定，她是被迫为朝鲜从事间谍活动的，因为她担心如果不听命，就难保家人安全。
Ms. Kim has since reversed herself, denying that the North ordered her to spy or that she turned over her data. She now says she that she was only pretending to spy in order to be deported, and that she falsely confessed to receive a shorter sentence.
金女士后来翻了供，否认朝鲜让她做间谍，也否认把数据交给了特工。她现在说，她只是为了被遣送出境，假装当间谍，她说她做了不实的坦白，为的是减短刑期。
“Her conduct is too absurd to be a spy’s,” said Jang Kyung-uk, a human rights lawyer helping Ms. Kim. “It’s time for South Korea to discuss a way for people like her to return home.”
“她的行为太荒谬了，她不可能是间谍，”一直在帮助金女士的人权律师张庆旭（Jang Kyung-uk，音译）说。“韩国早就该讨论如何将像她这样的人送回家了。”
Her case has not drawn much attention in South Korea, where hers is just another sad, if strange, story in a land where thousands of families have been divided since the Korean War.
她的案子在韩国并没有引起很多关注，那只是这片土地上的又一个悲伤故事，虽然有些离奇。朝鲜战争后，有成千上万的家庭骨肉分离。
North Korea has not commented on the case. Its government calls all defectors “traitors,” sometimes dispatching family members left behind to prison camps.
朝鲜还未对此案发表评论。朝鲜政府称所有的脱北者为“叛徒”，有时会将他们留在朝鲜的家人关进监狱。
Ms. Kim, who now works at a recycling plant in Yeongcheon, operating a machine that chops up old electrical wires, still professes her love for the North, affections that do not endear her in the South but that may be intended to protect her family back in Pyongyang.
金女士目前在永川市的一家回收处理厂工作，操作一台把旧电线剪碎的机器。她表示仍热爱朝鲜，这让她在韩国不受欢迎，但也许是为了保护她平壤的家人。
She said the last four digits of her South Korean cellphone number represented the birthday of Kim Il-sung, the North’s founder and grandfather of the current leader, Kim Jong-un. She said she worshiped Kim Il-sung “like my own biological father.” She said she tearfully sang the North Korean anthem at the stadium during the 2013 soccer match.
她说她韩国手机号码的最后四位数字代表金日成的生日，金日成是朝鲜建国领导人、现任领导人金正恩的祖父。她说她热爱金日成，“就像热爱自己的生身父亲一样。”她说，在2013年观看两国女足比赛时，她曾眼含热泪地唱朝鲜国歌。
“More than anything else, I want North Korea to recognize that I am not a traitor and that I have never, ever, not even for a blinking moment, forgotten my fatherland,” she said in the interview. “If I was caught as a spy, I thought it would at least prove that I did not abandon the fatherland.”
“比任何东西都重要的是，我希望朝鲜意识到，我不是叛徒，我从未都没有忘记我的祖国，哪怕是在眨眼的一个瞬间，”她在采访中说。“如果我被以间谍的罪名逮捕，我觉着那至少证明我从未背叛祖国。”
It is difficult to parse the motivations behind such comments, separating the state-instilled patriotism from state-induced fear.
很难判断她这种言论背后的动机中，有多少成分是国家灌输的爱国主义，多少是国家诱导的恐惧感。
“Fear for her family helps explain her desperate and seemingly strange behavior,” said Choi Seung-ho, a veteran TV producer who reported on her story for Newstapa, an investigative news website. “Hers is a humanitarian story, perhaps possible only on the divided Korean Peninsula.”
“对家人的担心可以帮助解释她看似古怪的绝望行为，”老牌电视制作人崔承浩（ Choi Seung-ho，音译）说，他在调查性新闻网站Newstapa上报道了她的故事。“她的故事是一个人道主义的故事，也许只会在分裂的朝鲜半岛上发生。”
Ms. Kim’s only hope for returning home at this point would be some sort of political deal between the two Korean governments. South Korea has a strict policy against repatriating convicted spies and has only done so twice, in 1993 and 2000, as good-will gestures as part of bilateral negotiations.
目前，金女士回家的唯一希望也许是两国政府间能达成某种政治协议。韩国有严格的政策禁止遣返被判犯有间谍罪的人，历史上只有过两次遣返，一次是在1993年，另一次是在2000年，都是为了在双边谈判中做出友好姿态。
“I had never imagined that my initial bad judgment in trusting the broker would lead to so much trouble,” Ms. Kim said. “One thing I learned is how ignorant North Koreans like myself were about how things work in South Korea, just as South Koreans don’t understand North Korea.”
“我从未想象过，我当初对掮客的错误信任，会导致如此恶果，”金女士说。“我得到的一个教训是，像我这样的朝鲜人对韩国社会上的事情是多么无知，正如韩国人也不了解朝鲜一样。”