Donald John Trump was elected the 45th president of the United States on Tuesday in a stunning culmination of an explosive, populist and polarizing campaign that took relentless aim at the institutions and long-held ideals of American democracy.
唐纳德·约翰·特朗普(Donald John Trump)于周二当选美国第45任总统，这场激烈的、民粹主义的和两极分化的选举无情地冲击着体制与美国民主长久以来的理想，如今到达了惊人的顶峰。
The surprise outcome, defying late polls that showed Hillary Clinton with a modest but persistent edge, threatened convulsions throughout the country and the world, where skeptics had watched with alarm as Trump’s unvarnished overtures to disillusioned voters took hold.
之前最后的民意调查表明希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)将会占据微弱但是持续的优势，这一惊人的结果与之完全相悖，令全国乃至全世界都面临动荡的威胁——自从特朗普对失望选民做出的直白表态生根发芽之时，全世界的怀疑论者们便开始警惕地观望。
The triumph for Trump, 70, a real estate developer-turned-reality television star with no government experience, was a powerful rejection of the establishment forces that had assembled against him, from the world of business to government, and the consensus they had forged on everything from trade to immigration.
现年70岁的房地产开发商与电视真人秀明星特朗普没有执政经验，尽管从商界到政界的权威力量团结起来一致反对，他仍然成功当选，这是对这些权威力量的强烈否定，也是对他们在从贸易到移民等一切领域所达成的共识的否定。 
The results amounted to a repudiation, not only of Clinton, but of President Barack Obama, whose legacy is suddenly imperiled. And it was a decisive demonstration of power by a largely overlooked coalition of mostly blue-collar white and working-class voters who felt that the promise of the United States had slipped their grasp amid decades of globalization and multiculturalism.
这些结果不仅是对克林顿的否定，也是对贝拉克·奥巴马总统的否定，他的政治遗产突然之间便陷于危险境地。这是决定性的力量展示，来自一个很大程度上被忽略的联盟，他们大多是蓝领白人和工人阶级投票者，他们觉得经历了几十年的全球化与多元文化主义，美国的美好前景已经不在他们自己的掌握之中。
In Trump, a thrice-married Manhattanite who lives in a marble-wrapped three-story penthouse apartment on Fifth Avenue, they found an improbable champion.
在特朗普这个结过三次婚、住在第五大道一套外面装饰着大理石的三层顶层豪华公寓的曼哈顿人身上，他们找到了一个看似不太可能的捍卫者。
Trump’s strong showing brightened Republican hopes of retaining control of the Senate. Only one Republican-controlled seat, in Illinois, fell to Democrats early in the evening. And Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina, a Republican, easily won re-election in a race that had been among the country’s most competitive. A handful of other Republican incumbents facing difficult races were running better than expected.
特朗普的强劲表现让共和党保住参议院的控制权的希望变得光明起来。傍晚时分，只有伊利诺伊州州一个原本由共和党把持的席位落入民主党之手。在一场竞争激烈程度在全国名列前茅的争夺中，北卡罗来纳州共和党参议员理查德·布尔(Richard Burr)轻松赢得连任。其他几名面临艰难争夺的在职参议员的表现也都好于预期。
Trump’s win — stretching across the battleground states of Florida, North Carolina, Ohio and Pennsylvania — seemed likely to set off financial jitters and immediate unease among international allies, many of which were startled when Trump in his campaign cast doubt on the necessity of America’s military commitments abroad and its allegiance to international economic partnerships.
特朗普的获胜——贯穿摇摆州佛罗里达、北卡罗来纳、俄亥俄和宾夕法尼亚——看上去可能会引发金融动荡，并在国际盟友中立即引发不安。当特朗普在竞选活动中对美国在海外的军事承诺，以及对国际经济伙伴关系效忠的必要性提出质疑时，不少盟友大吃一惊。
From the moment he entered the campaign, with a shocking set of claims that Mexican immigrants were rapists and criminals, Trump was widely underestimated as a candidate, first by his opponents for the Republican nomination and later by Clinton, his Democratic rival. His rise was largely missed by polling organizations and data analysts. And an air of improbability trailed his campaign, to the detriment of those who dismissed his angry message, his improvisational style and his appeal to disillusioned voters.
宣布参选时，特朗普发表了一系列令人震惊的言论，称墨西哥移民是强奸犯和罪犯。从参选的那一刻起，特朗普作为一名候选人就普遍被低估了。先是被反对他获得共和党提名的人低估，后来又被民主党竞争对手克林顿低估。民调机构和数据分析人士大多忽略了他的崛起。一种不太可能的感觉一直跟随着他的竞选，给那些对特朗普的愤怒言论、即兴风格和对大失所望的选民的吸引力不以为意的人造成了不利影响。
He suggested remedies that raised questions of constitutionality, like a ban on Muslims entering the United States.
他提出的解决方法有违宪之嫌，比如禁止穆斯林进入美国。 
He threatened opponents, promising lawsuits against news organizations that covered him critically and women who accused him of sexual assault. At times, he simply lied.
他威胁对手，发誓要对批评他的新闻机构和指控他性侵的女性提起诉讼。有时他干脆撒谎。
But Trump’s unfiltered rallies and unshakable self-regard attracted a zealous following, fusing unsubtle identity politics with an economic populism that often defied party doctrine.
不过，特朗普鱼龙混杂的集会和不可动摇的自我欣赏引来了热情追随，把明显的身份政治与常常违背共和党信条的经济平民主义结合在一起。
His rallies — furious, entertaining, heavy on name-calling and nationalist overtones — became the nexus of a political movement, with daily promises of sweeping victory, in the election and otherwise, and an insistence that the country’s political machinery was “rigged” against Trump and those who admired him.
他的集会喧闹热烈，充满娱乐效果，充满辱骂和国家主义色彩，成为一场政治运动的焦点，每日承诺在大选和其他方面取得压倒性胜利，还坚称美国的政治机器遭到“操纵”，用于反对特朗普及其赞赏者。 
He seemed to embody the success and grandeur that so many of his followers felt was missing from their own lives — and from the country itself. And he scoffed at the poll-driven word-parsing ways of modern politics, calling them a waste of time and money. Instead, he relied on his gut.
他似乎代表着很多追随者感觉自己生活中和这个国家所缺乏的成功和辉煌。他嘲笑现代政治受选票驱使、言辞谨慎的方式，说那是浪费时间和金钱。相反，他依靠的是自己的胆量。
At his victory party at the New York Hilton Midtown, where a raucous crowd indulged in a cash bar and wore hats bearing his ubiquitous campaign slogan “Make America Great Again,” voters expressed gratification that their voices had, at last, been heard.
他的胜选派对在纽约城中央希尔顿酒店(New York Hilton Midtown)举行，付费吧台旁人声鼎沸，大家的帽子上都印有他那句无处不在的竞选口号：“恢复美利坚的伟大荣光”。参加派对的选民表示满意，因为他们的声音终于被听见了。
“He was talking to people who weren’t being spoken to,” said Joseph Gravagna, 37, a marketing company owner from Rockland County, New York. “That’s how I knew he was going to win.”
“他是和无人理会的人们讲话，”现年37岁、来自纽约州罗克兰县，拥有一家营销公司的约瑟夫格·拉瓦尼亚(Joseph Gravagna)说。“因此我知道他会赢。”
For Clinton, the defeat signaled an astonishing end to a political dynasty that has colored Democratic politics for a generation. Eight years after losing to Obama in the Democratic primary — and 16 years after leaving the White House for the U.S. Senate, as President Bill Clinton exited office — she had seemed positioned to carry on two legacies: her husband’s and the president’s.
对克林顿来说，这场失败意味着一个曾让一代人的民主政治变得多姿多彩的政治王朝以惊人的方式画上句号。距离在民主党初选中输给奥巴马已经过去了8年——距离在比尔·克林顿(President Bill)总统卸任之际离开白宫进入美国参议院已经过去了16年——她此前看似有可能将两种传承发扬光大，那是她丈夫的传承，也是总统的传承。
Her shocking loss was a devastating turn for the sprawling world of Clinton aides and strategists who believed they had built an electoral machine that would swamp Trump’s ragtag band of loyal operatives and family members, many of whom had no experience running a national campaign.
对于由克林顿的助手和策略师组成的庞大团队而言，她这场令人震惊的失败是一个毁灭性的转折，他们本以为自己打造出了一部选举机器，可以完爆特朗普麾下那群由忠诚的工作人员和家庭成员组成的乌合之众——其中很多人都没有过组织全国性竞选活动的经验。
On Tuesday night, stricken Clinton aides who believed that Trump had no mathematical path to victory anxiously paced the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center as states in which they were confident of victory, like Florida and North Carolina, either fell to Trump or seemed in danger of tipping his way.
克林顿的助手们曾经认为论票数特朗普绝无胜算，却在周二晚上严重受挫，他们在雅各布·K·贾维茨会议中心(Jacob K. Javits Convention Center)内焦急地走来走去，眼瞅着他们本以为十拿九稳的那些州——比如佛罗里达和北卡罗莱纳——或者被特朗普拿下，或者看起来有被他拿下的危险。
Clinton watched the grim results roll in from a suite at the nearby Peninsula Hotel, surrounded by her family, friends and advisers who had the day before celebrated her candidacy with a champagne toast on her campaign plane.
在附近的半岛酒店(Peninsula Hotel)的套房里，克林顿盯着出现在屏幕上的惨淡结果，身边环绕着家人、朋友和顾问。 前一天，这些人曾在竞选专机上为她的竞选举杯庆贺。
But over and over, Clinton’s weaknesses as a candidate were exposed. She failed to excite voters hungry for change. She struggled to build trust with Americans who were baffled by her decision to use a private email server as secretary of state. And she strained to make a persuasive case for herself as a champion of the economically downtrodden after delivering perfunctory paid speeches that earned her millions of dollars.
但克林顿作为候选人的弱点一次又一次地暴露了出来。她没能让渴望看到改变的选民兴奋起来。她无法取信于因为她在担任国务卿期间决定使用私人电邮服务器而深感困惑的美国人。她在通过发表敷衍了事的有偿演讲赚取了数百万美元之后，也难以有力地证明自己可以捍卫在经济上受到压迫的那些人。
The returns Tuesday also amounted to a historic rebuke of the Democratic Party from the white blue-collar voters who had formed the party base from the presidency of Franklin D. Roosevelt to Bill Clinton’s. Yet Hillary Clinton and her advisers had taken for granted that states like Michigan and Wisconsin would stick with a Democratic nominee, and that she could repeat Obama’s strategy of mobilizing the party’s ascendant liberal coalition rather than pursuing a more moderate course like her husband did 24 years ago.
周二的选举结果还代表着白人蓝领选民对民主党做出的历史性的驳斥，从富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)到比尔·克林顿当政期间，这些人一直都是该党基础选民的组成部分。但希拉里·克林顿及其顾问想当然地认为，密歇根、威斯康星等州会坚决支持民主党候选人，她可以再度使用奥巴马用过的策略，动员该党方兴未艾的自由派联盟，而不是像她丈夫24年前所做的那样，寻求更为温和的路线。
But not until these voters were offered a Republican who ran as an unapologetic populist, railing against foreign trade deals and illegal immigration, did they move so drastically away from their ancestral political home.
然而，当一名以毫不掩饰的民粹主义者姿态参加竞选，痛斥外贸协议和非法移民的共和党人现身时，这些选民彻底背弃了他们的政治籍贯。
To the surprise of many on the left, white voters who had helped elect the nation’s first black president appeared more reluctant to line up behind a white woman.
让很多左翼人士感到惊讶的是，帮助选出美国第一位黑人总统的白人选民，似乎更不情愿支持一名白人女性。
Uncertainty abounds as Trump prepares to take office. His campaign featured a shape-shifting list of policy proposals, often seeming to change hour to hour. His staff was in constant turmoil, with Trump’s children serving critical campaign roles and a rotating cast of advisers alternately seeking access to Trump’s ear, losing it and, often, regaining it, depending on the day.
在特朗普准备入主白宫之际，不确定性依然大量存在。他的竞选团队此前给出了一张多变的政策建议清单，看似一时一个样。他的幕僚也时常变动，在竞选团队中扮演关键角色的是他的子女，顾问们则不断轮替，他们会寻求向特朗普进言，却也会失去这种资格，然后又常常重新获得，一切都要视当天的运气而定。
Even Trump’s full embrace of the Republican Party came exceedingly late in life, leaving members of both parties unsure about what he truly believes. He has donated heavily to both parties and has long described his politics as the transactional reality of a businessman.
即使是特朗普对共和党的完全拥抱，在其生命中也姗姗来迟，这让两党成员不确定他真正相信什么。 他向双方都做出过大笔捐款，并且长期以来将他的政治描述为一个商人的交易现实。
Trump’s dozens of business entanglements — many of them in foreign countries — will follow him into the Oval Office, raising questions about potential conflicts of interest. His refusal to release his tax returns, and his acknowledgment that he did not pay federal income taxes for years, has left the American people with considerable gaps in their understanding of the financial dealings.
特朗普的数十个商业活动中，有许多都在国外，它们将跟随他进入椭圆形办公室，从而引起了关于潜在利益冲突的问题。 他拒绝公开自己的报税表，并承认他在好些年里没有支付联邦所得税，这让美国人在理解其金融交易方面有相当大的窟窿。
But this they do know: Trump will thoroughly reimagine the tone, standards and expectations of the presidency, molding it in his own self-aggrandizing image.
但他们知道以下这些：特朗普将彻底重构总统的语调，标准和对这个职位的期望，并以他自己的自大形象塑造这一职位。
He is set to take the oath of office on Jan. 20.
他将于1月20日宣誓就职。