I wish I could say I remember Penn Station, but all I can recollect is walking down some broad stairs to a train to a summer camp where I was being sent against my will. I do, however, have inchoate memories of my mother denouncing its demolition, one of the few opinions about public policy she ever expressed.
我很想说自己还记得宾夕法尼亚车站(Penn Station)，但脑海中所能回想起的片段，就只有走在几级通往车站的宽阔台阶上，将要被火车送往自己压根不想去的夏令营时的情景。但在我的早期记忆里，确实有它当年被拆除时，妈妈曾表示过谴责。她很少对公共政策发表意见的，那是为数不多的几次之一。
But I know that from my midteens I liked old things, the heft of them, the burnished quality, the evident history of an artifact — perhaps I should have grown up to be Ralph Lauren’s window dresser. I am not sure what really tipped me toward architecture instead of vintage polo mallets, but I do remember a sense of indignation maturing during the demolition of four buildings around 1970.
然而我知道，自己从少年时代起便喜欢旧东西。一件有重量、抛光良好、显然有些年头的工艺品，总能让我爱不释手。也许，我长大后应该去当拉尔夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)的橱窗设计师。我也不知到底是什么东西将我引向了建筑学，而不是复古的马球球棍。但我确实还记得，当四座建筑在1970年前后被拆掉之时，自己胸中那股愤慨之情。
In 1969, the developer Burton Resnick began work on what became the 28-story 900 Park Avenue, at 79th Street, which is easily the sorest thumb on the avenue,  with its dead-modern facade, double the height of the surrounding buildings. It replaced the handsome 1917 mansion by Howells & Stokes for the philanthropist John Sherman Hoyt. The walls were fieldstone, the style Tudor, and enlarged 40 times it would be worthy of Downton Abbey.  I. N. Phelps Stokes wrote the massive six-volume “Iconography of Manhattan Island."  Ultra-refined, he would have winced at this replacement. 
1969年，开发商伯顿·雷斯尼克(Burton Resnick)开始在79号街上建造后来成为“派克大道900号”(900 Park Avenue)的那栋28层建筑。凭借极其现代的外观和比周围建筑高出一倍的高度，它轻而易举地成为这条街上最刺眼的建筑。而被它所取代的那栋建筑，则是建筑公司Howells & Stokes于1971年为慈善家约翰·舍曼·霍伊特(John Sherman Hoyt)修建的府邸。要是将这座粗石墙面的都铎式建筑放大四十倍，那几乎就是又一座唐顿庄园(Downton Abbey)。虽然I·N·费尔普斯·斯托克斯(I. N. Phelps Stokes)曾写下厚厚的六卷本《曼哈顿岛图解》(Iconography of Manhattan Island)，但过度文雅的他，还是会被这个替代掉自己所建作品的新建筑吓一跳的。
When I encountered scaffolding and guys with crowbars around the house, I was aghast. Here was a certifiable Neat Old Thing — how could someone tear it down? A mansion, on Park Avenue — what millionaire wouldn’t want to live there? It had seemed so permanent. I was shaken. That the co-op had received a decadelong tax exemption only rubbed salt in the wound.
当我看见脚手架和房子周围拿着撬棍的工人们时，我惊呆了。毫无疑问，这是栋干净整洁的旧建筑，怎么会有人要把它拆了呢？一座位于派克大道的宅邸，哪位百万富翁不想住进去？它看起来如此隽永。我震惊了。而这座合作公寓(co-op)还获得了十年期的免税优惠，这一点真无异于往伤口上撒盐了。
In the summer of 1970 or 1971 I had an experience that did not involve a landmark-type building, but was formative nonetheless. I lived in a railroad tenement at 81st and Third, and the Kalikow family firm was about to demolish a tenement at 80th and Third. One weekend I got through the demolition fence and went through it, top to bottom, looking for ... things. Stuff. Old wall-mounted can openers. Green glass juicers. It was harmless enough — entering, if not breaking — until one leg went full through a rotten section of flooring, and no one was within calling distance. If there had been nails sticking through the joists ...
在1970年或1971年的夏天，我也有过一次类似的经历。虽然那次被拆的不是一处地标式建筑，但也是一栋很有特色的大楼。那时，我住在81号街和第三大道交汇处的一栋铁路廉价公寓里，而Kalikow家族企业正准备拆除80号街和第三大道交汇处的一栋出租公寓。一个周末，我穿过拆除工地的围墙，把那栋公寓从上到下走了个遍，寻找……东西。固定在墙上的老旧开罐器啦，绿色的玻璃榨汁机啦。走进（而非闯入）这栋楼还算挺安全的，直到我的一条腿深陷进一片腐朽的地板里，又没人能听见我的呼喊。如果再有几根钉子穿过托梁，那可就危险了……
After demolition the developer placed a billboard on the vacant lot, prominently visible to uptown traffic, promising the usual “luxury building.” Over the Fourth of July weekend, I painted my own big sign, “Another Ugly Monster Coming Soon” and hung it in front of the billboard.
拆完房子，这家开发商在一块空地上安了个广告牌。开往住宅区的车辆都可以看见那块牌子，它十分醒目地承诺道：一幢“豪华建筑”将在此拔地而起。7月4日后的那个周末，我也刷好了自己的大标牌：“又一个丑陋的怪物即将粉墨登场”，并将它挂到那块广告牌的前边。
It remained up the entire weekend, and I felt proudly subversive. I confess this here for the first time.
整个周末，我的标牌都挂在那。我要在这里首次承认：这件坏事让我十分骄傲。
Sometime in 1971, demolition began on the 1870 Presbyterian Home for Aged Women, on 73rd between Madison and Park, a wonderful old pile that the Presbyterians quite naturally wanted to replace with a new, practical building. It had a memorable Charles Addams mansard tower, and here began my devotion to 19th-century institutional buildings. In retrospect, I should have founded Friends of Firetrap Architecture.
1971年里的某一天，“长老会1870年老年女性之家”(1870 Presbyterian Home for Aged Women)的拆除工作悄然开始。这座房子位于73号街上，在麦迪逊街(Madison)和派克大道(Park)之间，是一栋美好的老建筑。长老教会的成员自然是希望用一栋新式的实用建筑来替代它。 我对十九世纪公共建筑的痴迷，就是从它那令人难忘的查理斯·亚当斯（Charles Addams，美国著名漫画家——译注）风格的复折式屋顶高塔开始的。回顾往事，我觉得自己真该成立一个“火灾隐患建筑之友”(Friends of Firetrap Architecture)之类的组织。
Here I discovered that furtive visits on weekends were not necessary; the only qualifications for entrance were work clothes and the ability to look as if you knew what you were doing, so I had absolutely free rein. I found little nursing kits; a 1930s wheelchair with Bakelite arms; a battlefield-quality oak-handled canvas stretcher; medical supplies. It was a bonanza.
我发现，周末时到这里转转，完全用不着偷偷摸摸的。只要穿着工作服，并装出一副十分清楚自己来干什么的样子就行了。这样，我完全是来去自如的。我发现了护士用的小型工具包，一把二十世纪三十年代的带胶木扶手的轮椅，一把符合战地质量、带橡木把手的帆布担架，以及一些医疗补给。真是座“宝藏”。
I discreetly ganged things up at the front door, but then I was struck by doubt, the fatal bane of all great ideas: “Do I really need a wheelchair, no matter how cool it is?” “How am I going to get this stretcher home?” In the end I took a few tables and other minor equipment. Now that I am old enough to think about needing a wheelchair, I question that decision.
我小心翼翼地将那些东西收集到前门，但接着，一个十分关键的问题让我犹豫起来：“不管这轮椅有多酷，我真的需要它吗？”“这把担架如何才能弄回家？”最后，我只拿了几张桌子和其他一些小器械。现在，我倒是已经老得要考虑添置一把轮椅了，这令我怀疑自己当初那个决定是对是错。
Around 1973 demolition loomed for another great firetrap, the 1898 Home for Old Men and Aged Couples, at 112th and Amsterdam. This was a Tudor-y thing, designed by Cady, Berg & See, not really great architecture but comfy and endearing, and it formed a nice little suite with the aqueduct gatehouse and fire station next door.
1973年左右，被拆除的阴影笼罩了又一座具有火灾隐患的老建筑。在112街和阿姆斯特丹(Amsterdam)街的交汇处，有一栋为老年男性和老年夫妻修建的房屋，由Cady, Berg & See设计，风格有点像都铎式。虽然它并不是什么宏伟建筑，却也舒适讨喜，搭配隔壁带水道的门房和消防站，就是一组漂亮的小套房。
Even though a new structure was eminently sensible, it still seemed a waste. As I recall it, I wept when I saw the first bulldozer take a mouthful, but I was such a cynical slacker that it must be an invented memory.
虽说建一栋新建筑显然是明智的，但那似乎仍是一种浪费。根据本人的回忆，眼见第一辆推土机挖起满满一铲土时，我哭了。不过，鉴于我是这样一个玩世不恭、游手好闲的家伙，这段记忆一定是我自己臆想出来的。
By this time I was aware of preservation as an actual political movement, although I never picketed, wrote letters or complained. Orthodox preservationists rarely focused on vernacular buildings like these. But as I left college, I thought I might try to bring attention to buildings that would otherwise be ignored — too late for these four.
尽管我从未参加过示威抗议、写过信或提过意见，但到目前为止，我已经将保存旧建筑视为一项真正的政治运动了。传统的保护主义者很少去关注像这样的本地建筑。不过自从离开大学那时起，我便觉得自己应该努力将人们的注意力引到那些更易被人忽视的建筑上去，以免它们像那四座建筑一样，想要拯救，却为时已晚。