SUTHERLAND SPRINGS, Tex. — One minute the Holcombes were a tight-knit family praying in the tiny church on Fourth Street.
德克萨斯州瑟兰泉——前一分钟，霍尔库姆一家还亲密无间，在第四街的小教堂里祈祷。
The next, eight of them were gone.
下一分钟，家里的八个人就没了。
Bryan and Karla Holcombe, a guest preacher and his wife, were dead.
被邀请来布道的布莱恩及其妻子卡拉·霍尔库姆身亡。
Their son Marc Daniel Holcombe, gone. Their pregnant daughter-in-law, Crystal Holcombe, gone.
他们的儿子马克·丹尼尔·霍尔库姆没了。他们怀孕的儿媳克里斯特尔·霍尔库姆，也没了。
And four of their grandchildren — Noah, Emily, Megan and Greg — gone.
他们的四个孙辈——诺亚、艾米丽、梅根和格雷格也不在了。
Twenty-six people were killed when a man named Devin P. Kelley, 26, opened fire Sunday at the First Baptist Church in the small Texas town of Sutherland Springs. According to the Wilson County sheriff, Joe Tackitt Jr., as many as half of the victims were children.
周日，当26岁的德文·P·凯利(Devin P. Kelley)在德克萨斯州小镇瑟兰泉的第一浸会教堂开枪后，26人死亡。据威尔逊县警长小乔·塔科特(Joe Tackitt Jr.)说，有半数的受害者是孩子。
And the gunman nearly wiped out the Holcombe family, leaving Joe Holcombe, 86, Bryan’s father, to mourn the loss of the generations he had raised. “We know where they are now,” he said in an interview, his voice strained by exhaustion. “All of our family members, they’re all Christian. And it won’t be long until we’re with them.”
枪手几乎杀光了霍尔库姆一家，只留下布莱恩的父亲、86岁的乔·霍尔库姆白发人送黑发人。“现在我们知道他们在哪里了，”他在一个采访中说道，声音透露出疲惫。“我们家的人，都是基督徒。过不了多久我们就会和他们同在。”
It is a cruelty of mass shootings that they sometimes inflict double or triple blows on families, killing one brother while injuring another. But even in a nation accustomed to attacks of larger and larger proportions, the scale of the Holcombes’s loss was particularly brutal.
大规模枪击事件的残酷之处，就在于其往往会对家人造成双倍或三倍的打击，在杀死一个兄弟的同时，伤害另一个。但即使是在一个对规模越来越大的袭击司空见惯的国家，霍尔库姆家的损失也是尤其惨烈的。
The Holcombes lived in homes near one another on family land in the woods around Sutherland Springs. The younger generations lived in double-wide trailers and the grandparents in a modern log cabin. “They weren’t clandestine,” said Terry Bolf, a longtime friend of the family. “Their gate was always open.” Family life centered on religion. Bryan Holcombe, who also ministered at the Wilson County jail, was a guest preacher at First Baptist in Sutherland Springs on the day he died.
霍尔库姆一家住在环绕瑟兰泉的树林里，是自家的地，相互住得很近。年轻的一代住在两连式活动房屋中，祖父母则住在一栋现代小木屋里。“他们坦坦荡荡，”这家人多年的朋友泰瑞·博尔夫说。“他们的大门总是敞开着。”家庭生活以宗教为主。布莱恩·霍尔库姆曾在威尔逊县监狱担任牧师，遇害当日，受邀在瑟兰泉的第一浸会教堂布道。
The day before, his daughter-in-law Crystal was at the county 4-H competition surrounded by her children, at least one of whom won an award, said Bob Baker, a Sutherland Springs resident who attended the event. A few days before that, Noah, 18 months, was bouncing on employees’ desks at her father’s office, digging into Halloween jack-o’-lanterns full of leftover candy.
前一天，他的儿媳克里斯特尔在孩子们的围绕下出席了县4-H竞赛，至少有一名孩子赢得了奖项，参加了该活动的瑟兰泉居民鲍勃·贝克说。几天前，18个月大的诺亚在她父亲办公室的员工桌上蹦蹦跳跳，从装满万圣节剩余糖果的南瓜灯里掏吃的。
Her father, Marc Daniel Holcombe, went by Danny, and worked as a mechanic at F&W Electrical in Floresville.
她的父亲马克·丹尼尔·霍尔库姆是弗洛里斯维尔F&W电气的一名技工，大伙儿都叫他丹尼。
At F&W on Monday, employees were red-eyed and trembling. One of their star employees was dead. Danny had just celebrated his 15-year anniversary with the company. He worked 10- to 12-hour days and was known in the company as “MacGyver” because he could find a fix to nearly any problem.
周一，在F&W电气公司，员工们都红着眼睛，身子微微颤抖。他们的明星员工去世了。丹尼刚刚庆祝过在这家公司工作15周年的纪念日。他经常一天工作10至12个小时，在公司人称“百战天龙”(MacGyver)，因为没有他搞不定的问题。
He took his faith seriously and liked to pull up Bible verses using an app on his phone. When he saw Jennifer Kincaid last week and spotted a fog light out on her car, he insisted he would fix it Monday. “I think that’s hit everyone hard, to know that not only is he gone,” Ms. Kincaid said, “but his daughter is gone as well.”
他对自己的信仰十分虔诚，喜欢用手机上的一个应用程序查找《圣经》里的句子。上周，当他看到詹妮弗·金凯德车上一个雾灯坏了时，就坚持周一给她修。“知道他不仅不在了，而且他的女儿也不在了，”金凯德说，“这件事让每个人都深受打击。”
Danny and his wife had tried for a baby for a long time, Ms. Kincaid added, and when she got pregnant, his wife “quit her job and devoted her life to having that baby and being a mom.”
金凯德补充说，丹尼和他的妻子长期以来一直想生个孩子，怀孕后，她“辞了职，整个人都投入到生孩子和做母亲中去了”。
Danny and his father, Bryan, were “clones,” said another colleague, Jay Dunn. They both had red beards and shared a quirky sense of humor. Mr. Dunn said that whenever they were patching up a machine and were not sure the fix would last, Danny would joke that “it would hold until the Rapture.”
另一个同事杰·邓恩说，丹尼和他的父亲布莱恩简直是“一个模子刻出来的”。他们都蓄着红色的胡子，都有着古怪的幽默感。邓恩说只要他们在修理机器时不确定修过的东西能否持久，丹尼就会开玩笑说“它能撑到‘被提’（基督教末世论中的一种概念——译注）的时候。”
Bryan was a local business owner who made custom canvas covers for trailers, Mr. Dunn said. Danny’s mother, Karla, was involved in the First Baptist vacation Bible school, and she ran a Bible school clinic for other churches, even lending props to them.
邓恩说，布莱恩是当地的一名商人，为活动房屋制造订制帆布罩。丹尼的母亲卡拉参与了第一浸会圣经短期学校的工作，她还为其他教堂开办了一间圣经学校培训班，甚至还会借给他们教具。
The family was also close to the pastor at First Baptist, Frank Pomeroy, who lost his daughter, Annabelle Pomeroy, a seventh grader at Briesemeister Middle School.
这家人与第一浸会教堂的牧师弗兰克·波默罗伊(Frank Pomeroy)关系也很好，后者失去了女儿安娜贝尔·波默罗伊(Annabelle Pomeroy)，她是布里泽迈斯特中学(Briesemeister Middle School)的一名七年级学生。
The community hosted a vigil for victims on Monday, gathering to remember the Holcombes and others. But Mr. Dunn said he had not attended because “their entire family is pretty much gone.”
周一，这个社区为受害者举行了守夜仪式，人们聚集起来缅怀霍尔库姆一家和其他人。但邓恩说他没有参加，因为“他们整个家族基本上都没了”。
“There wasn’t anyone left to console,” he said.
“不知道去安慰谁，”他说。