The idea was simple: David and Sarah Altman planned to buy a large lot with a deteriorating house, tear it down and build something new. Something modern.
这个想法最初非常简单：戴维(David)和萨拉·阿尔特曼(Sarah Altman)夫妇打算先购置一处面积很大并带有荒宅的地块，再拆了房屋来新建一栋。要那种现代风格的。
As is often the case, however, money got in the way. Building a new house turned out to be prohibitively expensive, so the Altmans settled for the next best thing: remodeling something old. And when you live in Portland, Ore., as they do, and you’re looking for an old house, there are lots to choose from.
然而事情往往如此，他们在资金上卡了壳。新建房屋原来花费如此之巨，于是，阿尔特曼夫妇只好退而求其次：旧宅翻新。如果你和他们一样，也住在俄勒冈州的波特兰市，而且也想找一栋旧房屋，那么你会发现有大把的选择。
In the residential neighborhoods surrounding downtown, you’ll see many historic architectural styles — Craftsman, Victorian, Queen Anne — but perhaps none more plentiful than the American Foursquare, named for the four large rooms typically found on each floor. With its plain lines, the style was a reaction to the excesses of late-19th-century architecture and was popular here in the early decades of the 20th century. For a couple enamored of modernism, it seemed like a good choice.
在波特兰市中心周围的住宅区中，你可以看见各种历史建筑风格，例如美国工匠风格、维多利亚风格和安妮女王风格，但数量最多的恐怕还是美式四方型，由于每层都有四个大房间，这类房屋由此而得名。这种建筑线条简洁，与19世纪晚期建筑的繁复大相径庭，所以，在20世纪的最初几十年，此地颇为盛行这类建筑。对于喜欢现代主义的两口子而言，此类房屋看上去是个不错的选择。
The 1910 Foursquare house in the Richmond neighborhood that the Altmans bought in 2013, for $420,000, had three bedrooms and 2,400 square feet of interior space. Their plan was to do “a light remodel,” said Ms. Altman, 48, who owns a corporate executive sales training company. They initially intended to sell it to fund a brand-new house of their dreams, but they later reconsidered.
阿尔特曼夫妇2013年以42万美元（约合人民币267万元）购置的这栋1910年建造的四方型房屋有三间卧室和2400平方英尺（223平方米）的室内空间。今年48岁、拥有一家企业高管销售培训公司的阿尔特曼太太说，他们的计划是做一次“小规模的翻修。”他们原本打算出售这栋房子，以筹措资金来新建一栋他们的梦想之屋，但后来又重新做了考虑。
Ms. Altman and Mr. Altman, who is 45 and an owner of a private equity investment firm, had been moving around for a while — they had already lived in Switzerland, Germany, Minnesota and Arizona, among other places — and were ready to settle down. Their renovated house turned out to be everything they were hoping for in a new one.
阿尔特曼太太与今年45岁、拥有一家私募股权投资公司的阿尔特曼先生之前过着迁居的生活——他们曾经住过瑞士、德国、美国的明尼苏达州和亚利桑那州，还有其他一些地方——但现在他们准备定居下来。这栋房屋经过他们翻修之后，在各方面都和他们对新屋的期望一致。
Unlike much of the recent construction in the city’s historic neighborhoods, which apes traditional styles in an effort to blend in, the Altmans’ house doesn’t try to hide its addition. The cube that Thomas F. Robinson of Lever Architecture designed to expand the unused attic space perches on top of the house, at a 45-degree angle, like a modern treehouse, offering panoramic views of the neighborhood.
这栋房屋与该市历史区内一些近年修建的房屋有所不同，那些房子都在模仿传统风格，以尽力融入周围的环境，而阿尔特曼的这栋房屋并没有刻意隐藏其增建结构。由Lever建筑公司的托马斯·F·罗宾逊(Thomas F. Robinson)设计的这个立方体以45度角栖息在这栋房屋的顶部，像一座现代树屋一般，扩大了那个从未用过的阁楼空间，从这里能看见社区全貌。
“When we came up with this idea in the studio, everyone liked it,” Mr. Robinson said. “I was thinking, ‘Their neighbors are going to hate them — and the historic people are going to think we’ve desecrated this little iconic house.’ But it was intriguing.”
“我们在工作室里想出这个主意的时候，每个人都觉得很喜欢，”罗宾逊说。“我当时想，‘邻居们肯定要讨厌他们了——那些住在该历史区的人会认为，我们亵渎了这栋标志性的小房屋。’但这个设计构思太令人着迷了。”
He called the redesigned house Fivesquare.
他把这栋重新设计的房屋称为五方型建筑。
The project, which included modernizing the kitchen and the bathrooms, and widening doorways and openings throughout the house to let light in, cost about $400,000 and was completed in 2014.
该项目花费了大约40万美元（约合人民币254万元），设计了现代化的厨房和浴室，并拓宽了整栋房屋的出入口通道以加强采光，翻修工程于2014年竣工。
The new third-floor space is equipped with a ceiling-mounted projector and a drop-down screen, so the couple can watch movies up there. On a recent late-summer evening, Mr. Altman screened the original “Star Wars” to test the optics and acoustics. And as darkness set in, he said, “the whole room lit up.”
新建的第三层空间在天花板上装了投影仪和下拉式幕布，所以这对夫妻可以在那里看电影。在前不久的一个暮夏之夜，阿尔特曼先生放映了一部最早的《星球大战》来测试这些光学和声学仪器。他说，随着夜幕降临，“整个房间都亮了起来。”
Reaction from the neighbors has been unexpectedly positive — perhaps because the cube, which has nearly floor-to-ceiling glass walls that slope to match the pitched roofline in the back, is less visible in front. “It’s super subtle,” Mr. Altman said.
邻居们的反馈竟出乎意料地好——也许因为该立方体结构采用了几乎整面的玻璃墙，墙体配合了后面的倾斜屋顶，保持着侧倾，从正面几乎很难看见。“显得非常低调，”阿尔特曼说。
Even so, passers-by sometimes do a double-take. “I have seen people back up in their tracks,” Ms. Altman said, “and stare at the box.”
即便如此，路人还是会再看上一眼。“我曾见到有人走过去之后又转回身来，”阿尔特曼太太说，“一直看着这个‘盒子’。”