Mark Golin was in his office at the Time-Life Building recently, reflecting on his go-go days as the editor of Maxim magazine in the late 1990s.
最近，马克·戈林(Mark Golin)在他位于时代生活大厦(Time-Life Building)的办公室里，回顾了他在20世纪90年代末期作为《Maxim》杂志主编时那段一往无前的辉煌岁月。
“We were in a lot of ways the barbarians at the gates of Rome,” said Mr. Golin, now 51 and the group editor of style and entertainment at Time Inc., overseeing People, Entertainment Weekly and InStyle. “There you are, you’re sitting there with your city sanitation and your senate and everything,” getting beaten by “guys that don’t shower.”
“从很多方面来说，我们当时都像是罗马城门外的那些蛮族战士，”现年51岁的戈林说。他如今是时代集团(Time Inc)时尚与娱乐板块的编辑总监，负责《人物》(People)、《娱乐周刊》(Entertainment Weekly)和《型时代》(InStyle)等杂志。“就是那样，你们身处一个有着城市环卫体系和元老院等等一切东西的地方”，打败你的却是“一群连澡都不洗的家伙”。
“It felt great,” he said. “It was a lot of fun.” During his time at Maxim, Mr. Golin relished playing the heel, but he says he was never the lout or the lad he was portrayed as at the time. “I play the violin,” he said. “I don’t drink beer.”
“那时候感觉很棒，”他说，“那是很好玩的时代。”在他主持《Maxim》的那段时间里，戈林乐于扮演一个浑蛋，但他说他那时候是被塑造成那样的，他从来就不是那样一个浪荡小伙子或者大老粗。“我拉小提琴，”他说，“我不喝啤酒。”
He also doesn’t read Maxim anymore. “I’ve never read another copy since I left,” Mr. Golin said. “I never would’ve read the thing if I didn’t work there.”
而且他也不再看《Maxim》了。“从我离开之后，我就没再看过一期，”戈林说，“如果我不在那里工作，根本就不会看它。”
The magazine is universally credited (for what it’s worth) with encapsulating a “beer and babes” ethos that helped make careers for people like Megan Fox and Ashley Greene, even as it raised eyebrows and crinkled noses.
这本杂志在全球范围内被赞誉为概括了“啤酒与宝贝”的精神气质（它也配得上这样的赞誉），这种思潮帮助成就了梅根·福克斯(Megan Fox)和阿什丽·格林尼(Ashley Greene)等人的星途，尽管它同时也令很多人为之吹鼻子瞪眼。
But last week, it was sold with little fanfare for an undisclosed sum to Darden Media, whose chairman, Calvin Darden Sr., issued a statement about expanding the Maxim brand into a cable network and other platforms. He did not return calls for further comment. (The magazine’s previous owner, Alpha Media Group, bought the publication and two others, since shuttered, from Dennis Publishing for $250 million six years ago.)
然而在上星期，它被以一个不公开的价格低调地卖给了达顿传媒(Darden Media)。该公司主席卡尔文·达顿(Calvin Darden Sr.)发布了一份声明，宣布要将《Maxim》品牌扩展成一个有线电视以及其他平台。我们通过电话请求他做进一步评论，但他没有回复（这本杂志此前的拥有者阿尔法传媒集团[Alpha Media Group]，在6年前以2.5亿美元从丹尼斯出版集团手中买下了《Maxim》以及其他两份刊物，那两份刊物已停刊）。
While magazines of every stripe are struggling with a decline in ad sales, it seems safe to assert that Maxim has perhaps outlived its power to provoke and titillate.
现今每一种类型的杂志都在广告销售额下降的境况下挣扎，我们似乎也可以肯定地说，《Maxim》活到现在，或许已经不再有那种令人兴奋和激动的影响力了。
Though he no longer reads the magazine, Mr. Golin is certain that the Maxim man is still out there. What’s changed, he suggested, is the culture that surrounds him.
虽然戈林已经不再看这本杂志，但他相信“Maxim男人”仍然存在。他说，改变的只是围绕在这种男人周围的文化。
What had once been what Mr. Golin called a treehouse for a certain kind of guy, has perhaps become the forest. “Maxim expanded out to be easily found in the general fabric of everything,” Mr. Golin said. “It became expected and accepted.”
戈林曾经说那是为某一类男人而设的树屋，而那树屋现在或许已经变成了一个森林。“《Maxim》已经扩展到成为一种在所有东西身上都能轻易找到的基本元素，”戈林说，“它已经为人所接受，并且变成了意料之中的东西。”
Looking around, Mr. Golin sees signs of his former publication everywhere. “Probably one of the highest-grossing movies, or trilogy of movies, was ‘The Bachelor,’ ” he said.
放眼望去，戈林觉得，现在到处都能看到这本他曾经工作过的刊物的影子。“或许其中一部最卖座的电影，或者说三部曲系列电影，就是《单身汉》(The Bachelor)，”他说。
Did Mr. Golin perhaps mean “The Hangover”?
或许戈林指的是《宿醉》(The Hangover)？
“ ‘The Hangover,’ ‘The Hangover;’ ” he said.
“《宿醉》，是《宿醉》，”他说。
You can also see some of the Maxim man’s grasping ego in a character like Kenny Powers (played by Danny McBride), the blustery, blubbery former major league baseball pitcher on “Eastbound & Down” on HBO.
你也可以在肯尼·鲍尔斯（Kenny Powers，丹尼·麦克布莱德[Danny McBride]饰）这样的角色身上看到那种“Maxim男”式的自负和贪得无厌。那是HBO频道《体育老师笑传》(Eastbound & Down)里那个气势汹汹、肥头大耳的前棒球大联盟投手。
On Fox, there’s Schmidt (played by Max Greenfield) on “New Girl,” who presents a more polished version of a ’90s-era Maxim guy, and who embodies the kind of behavior derided by Susan Faludi in her 2000 book “Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man,” in which she called Maxim “simpering and sneaky” and described it as “a last blast of anachronistic masculinity.” Schmidt dresses as if he just walked out of a spread in Details, but his roommates force him to put a dollar into a jar every time he blurts out another sexist or self-regarding comment.
在福克斯(Fox)电视台，则有《房客小妹》(New Girl)里的史密特（Schmidt，麦克斯·格林菲尔德[Max Greenfield]饰）。他呈现了一个90年代“Maxim男”稍经修饰之后的版本，他所体现的那一类行为，在苏珊·法鲁迪(Susan Faludi)2000年出版的书《被耍了：美国男人的背叛》(Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man)里曾被嘲笑过。她说《Maxim》杂志“既嬉皮笑脸又卑鄙”，并且说它是“一种过气男人气质的最后一次爆发”。史密特的衣着就像是从《Details》杂志的时装大片里走出来的一样，但他的室友却要求他每次说出有性别歧视或者自视过高的言论时，都要往罐子里放一美元。
Then there’s Will Ferrell, whose every character from Ricky Bobby to Ron Burgundy to George W. Bush channels the wounded pride of overgrown boys living through what’s been called “the end of men.”
然后就有威尔·法瑞尔(Will Ferrell)。从里奇·鲍比(Ricky Bobby)到朗·贝尔根第(Ron Burgundy)再到乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)，他的每一个角色都在挖掘那种大男孩内心受伤的尊严，他们都在经历所谓的“男人的末日”。
“I think ultimately Maxim won,” Mr. Golin said, adding that the sophomoric are now found in great abundance on the Internet, which makes a monthly magazine of humor and innuendo less necessary.
“我想，到最后是《Maxim》赢了，”戈林说。他还说那种浅薄的自信如今已在互联网上泛滥，这也让一本以幽默与暗讽为基调的月刊变得不那么必要了。
Intended as a raspberry in the face of political correctness, Maxim was an overnight success following its transplantation from Britain by its owner, Felix Dennis. If National Review famously aimed to stand “athwart history, yelling Stop,” Maxim keg-stood the era of identity politics and Antioch consent rules. Its combination of “lad” humor, PG-13 starlet ogling and service articles upended its category, inspiring its competitors like GQ, Esquire and Details to change their formulas.
《Maxim》杂志意在对“政治正确”发出讽刺。它的所有者菲力克斯·丹尼斯(Felix Dennis)将它从英国移植过来之后，一下子就取得了成功。如果说《国家评论》(National Review)的名声是来自它试图“在历史潮流中逆流而立，高呼‘停下来’”的话，那《Maxim》就是在身份政治和安条克式行为准则的时代里玩起了倒立喝啤酒的游戏。它集“浪荡小伙”式的幽默、PG-13级别小女星的媚眼，以及颠覆行业类别的服务性报道于一身，像《GQ》、《Esquire》和《Details》等等这样的竞争刊物，都纷纷受到启发而改变了它们的模式。
It also inspired a lot of criticism, and not just from Ms. Faludi and other feminists. Art Cooper, the late editor of GQ, was widely quoted as saying Maxim is for “men who not only move their lips but drool when they read.”
但它也招来了很多的批评，不仅来自于法鲁迪或者其他女权人士。《GQ》杂志已故前主编的阿尔特·库珀(Art Cooper)的一句话曾被广泛引用，他说《Maxim》杂志的目标读者就是那些“阅读的时候不仅动嘴唇而且还流口水的男人”。
When Mr. Golin, widely credited with being the chief architect of Maxim’s voice, moved to rival Details, The New Yorker even saw fit to satirize his laddish tone with a parody edit test that shoehorned numerous references to Isabel Archer’s breasts into Henry James’s “Portrait of a Lady.”
当曾经被广泛赞誉为一手设计了《Maxim》式表达方式的戈林跳槽到了竞争对手《Details》那里的时候，《纽约客》(The New Yorker)甚至觉得有必要用一篇恶搞的编辑测验来讽刺一下他那种浪荡小子式的语调，当中多次提到伊莎贝尔·阿切尔(Isabel Archer)的胸部，并将之套进了亨利·詹姆斯(Henry James)的《一个贵妇人的画像》(Portrait of a Lady)当中。
Nancy Miller worked at Maxim from 1998 to 1999, where her title was “super deluxe senior associate editor” — an appeasement, she explained, for being passed over for a promotion.
南茜·米勒(Nancy Miller)在1998至1999年间曾在《Maxim》工作。在那里，她的头衔是“超高级资深联合编辑”——她解释说，这是对她没能得到晋升所给予的安慰。
“The culture has changed,” said Ms. Miller, now deputy editor for Los Angeles magazine. “The world has been Maxim-ized.”
“现在的文化已经改变了，”如今作为《洛杉矶》(Los Angeles)杂志副主编的米勒说，“世界已经‘Maxim化’了。”
She described her time at Maxim as “one of the most fun experiences” she ever had. “We were the Bad News Bears. We were figuring it out as we went along.”
她说在《Maxim》的那段时间是她“最好玩的经历之一”。“我们就是《小熊成军》(Bad News Bears)里的那帮人。我们是一边往前走才一边慢慢搞懂的。”
To anyone who thought the publication’s content sexist (see “How to Cure a Feminist,” from November 2003), Ms. Miller wanted to assert that the magazine’s humor, while puerile, never tipped into outright misogyny. “The cheeky humor helped balance out what could’ve been sexist,” Ms. Miller said. “It wasn’t meanspirited.”
对于那些认为此刊物的内容有性别歧视（比如2003年11月的一篇文章《如何矫正一个女性主义者》[How to Cure a Feminist]）的人，米勒想要说明，这本杂志的幽默虽然孩子气，但从来没有公开仇视女性。“这种厚脸皮的幽默，帮助平衡那些可能变成性别歧视的倾向，”米勒说，“它并没有恶意。”
Other Maxim alumni also spoke of the magazine in the past tense. “It was the best humor magazine in America,” said Joe Levy, who edited the magazine from 2009 to 2011 before leaving Alpha Media to edit Billboard. “Of course, it had the distinction of being the only humor magazine in America. But it was, without any doubt, the best.”
其他《Maxim》的旧员工说起这本杂志的时候，用的也都是过去时。“它曾经是美国最好的幽默杂志，”在2009至2011年间作为杂志主编的乔·莱维(Joe Levy)说道。他随后离开了阿尔法传媒集团去《告示牌》(Billboard)当了主编。“当然，它也曾经拥有作为美国唯一一本幽默杂志的地位。毫无疑问，它曾经是最好的。”
It was the humor (not the covers that besides Ms. Fox featured budding starlets like Jessica Alba, Jennifer Love Hewitt and a pre-Academy-Award-winning Catherine Zeta-Jones in various states of undress) that drew Ms. Miller to Maxim in the first place. “When I was a teenager, working at Spy was my dream,” she said. “Maxim was like Spy in hot pants.”
最初将米勒吸引去《Maxim》的也是它的幽默（而不是它那些以各种尺度裸露的封面，除了梅根·福克斯之外，还有杰茜卡·艾尔芭[Jessica Alba]、詹妮弗·洛芙·海维特[Jennifer Love Hewitt]以及成为奥斯卡影后之前的凯瑟琳·泽塔-琼斯[Catherine Zeta-Jones]等）。“在我还是个少女的时候，去《Spy》杂志工作就是我的梦想，”她说，“而《Maxim》就像是穿小热裤的《Spy》。”
From the perspective of having been the magazine’s dating columnist, Ms. Miller said that far from hating women, Maxim men were baffled by them. “They were curious about sex, how to treat women,” she said.
米勒曾经做过这本杂志的约会专栏作家，她说，在她看来，“Maxim男人”根本没有仇视女性，而是被她们给迷住了。“他们对性很好奇，想知道应该怎样对待女人，”她说。
She described the magazine as less a handbook for heels than “a primer about what it meant to be a man.”
她说这本杂志不是一本浑蛋手册，而更多是“讲述如何做一个男人的初阶读物”。
“In every generation there’s a 19-year-old guy wondering how to please his girlfriend,” she said. “The platform has changed. They have to get it more piecemeal.”
“每一代人，都会有那种19岁的男生，想要知道怎样去讨好女友，”她说，“但现在平台已经变了。他们要在更多的碎片中寻找答案。”
If Maxim was, as founder Felix Dennis put it once, the magazine equivalent of “the first beer truck to arrive in the desert,” now a thousand microbrews are gushing forth.
如果正如杂志创始人菲力克斯·丹尼斯曾说过的那样，《Maxim》就像是“第一辆到达沙漠的啤酒货车”，那现在，上千家的小型酿酒厂已经如雨后春笋般冒了出来。
“We’re a society of lots of different types of people,” said Dan Peres, the editor of Details, who took over the magazine 13 years ago after a brief tenure by Mr. Golin.
“我们的社会有着不同类型的人，”《Details》的主编丹·佩雷斯(Dan Peres)说。他13年前从短暂就任的戈林手中接手了这本杂志。
Mr. Peres doesn’t believe the Maxim man-boy has disappeared, either.
佩雷斯也相信，“Maxim”式的大男孩并没有消失。
“I see that guy all the time,” he said. “I work in Times Square.”
“我随时都能见到他们，”他说，“我可是在时报广场工作的。”
Mr. Peres’s magazine, which in many ways has defined itself as the polar opposite of Maxim and Details under Mr. Golin, had never featured a woman on the cover until last month. It’s also selected some articles aimed at young, gay men. “I think there has been a really nice step in the evolution of what the masculine or male ideal is,” Mr. Peres said.
从很多方面来说，佩雷斯掌管的杂志都将自己定义成与戈林手下的《Maxim》和《Details》相反的另一极。直到上个月之前，它都从来没有用过女人做封面。而且它还选登过一些以年轻同性恋男士为目标读者的文章。“我想在理想男性特质进化的过程中，有人已经迈出了漂亮的一步，”佩雷斯说。
It’s an open question whether or not Maxim, too, can evolve. Asked if he still thinks there’s a place for it in the current landscape, Mr. Golin paused for a long time.
至于《Maxim》是否也能迈出进化的步伐，则是个未知数。当被问到在当下的环境里，他认为这本杂志是否还有生存的空间时，戈林沉默了很长时间。
“I actually think you could do something,” he replied. “I don’t know that it’s a magazine. I mean, it could be a magazine.”
“我认为你确实可以做一些事情，”他回答说，“但我不确定它一定是杂志。我的意思是，它也可以是一本杂志。”
“I think you could form an interesting experience for people that lives on tablet and phone and in magazine and so on and so forth for guys,” he said. “But you don’t necessarily need Maxim to do it.”
“我觉得你可以为那些活在平板电脑、手机、杂志等等东西中的人们，提供一些男性专属的有趣体验，”他说，“但你不一定需要《Maxim》来做到这一点。”