SAN FRANCISCO — For most tech companies this financial earnings season, it has become a game of survival of the fittest. By that score,Facebook may outlast the others.
旧金山——对于大多数科技企业来说，本次的季度财报成为了一个适者生存的游戏。从这个角度来看，Facebook可能会比其他公司生存得更久远。
On Wednesday, the social network said sales in the first quarter rose 52 percent from a year ago to $5.3 billion, while profit increased to $1.5 billion, tripling from $512 million a year ago. Excluding certain items, Facebook’s profit was 77 cents a share, far surpassing Wall Street expectations of 62 cents a share.
Facebook周三公布，其第一季度销售额比去年同期上涨了52%，达53亿美元，利润增至15亿美元，是一年前5.12亿美元的差不多三倍。若不计特定项目，Facebook的利润相当于每股77美分，远远超过华尔街预期的每股62美分。
Facebook also announced a new class of nonvoting stock, called Class C shares, which the company said was aimed at ensuring that Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive, would remain in “an active leadership role.”
Facebook还宣布推出新的无投票权类股票，称为C类股份。公司表示，此举的目的是确保首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)继续担当“积极的领导角色”。
“We’re focused on our 10-year road map to give everyone in the world the power to share anything they want with anyone,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement.
“我们聚焦在公司的10年路线图上，要让世界上的所有人都能做到与任何人分享任何东西，”扎克伯格在声明中表示。
The results were a far cry from the disappointing numbers posted in the past 10 days by Facebook peers like Twitter, whose advertising business showed signs of stumbling on Tuesday, or Alphabet, the parent company of Google, which missed analysts’ estimates for revenue last week.
这样的业绩，与过去10天里同行们令人失望的财报数字形成了鲜明对比。比如，Twitter本周二的财报显示，其广告业务表现不佳；上周，谷歌(Google)母公司Alphabet发布的业绩也不及分析师的预期。
Other tech companies have also recently reported a string of weaker-than-expected results, including Microsoft and Apple. And some of the companies are having to cut deep; last week, Intel said it planned to eliminate 12,000 jobs to deal with the downturn in demand for personal computers.
其他一些科技公司最近发布的业绩亦不尽如人意，包括微软(Microsoft)和苹果(Apple)。有些公司不得不大幅裁员；上周，英特尔(Intel)表示计划裁减1.2万人，以应对个人电脑需求低迷的状况。
Facebook, in contrast, has figured out how to wring billions of dollars from its members on mobile devices and other platforms, making the company’s revenue-generation machine unstoppable. The company said 82 percent of its advertising revenue came from mobile devices in the first quarter.
相比之下，Facebook似乎找到了妙方，足以在移动设备和其他平台的用户那里赚取数以亿计的美元，给公司带来滚滚财源。Facebook表示，公司第一季度广告营收的82%来自移动设备。
And while the growth in new users on Facebook has slowed in recent years, the total is still getting larger. Facebook said 1.65 billion people visited the site on a monthly basis, up from 1.44 billion a year earlier. More than 1.5 billion people are monthly mobile-only users, up from 1.25 billion a year ago.
虽然Facebook的新用户增长率最近几年有所减缓，但用户总数仍在日益扩充。 Facebook表示，其网站的月度访客人数为16.5亿，而去年同期为14.4亿。其中逾15亿月度访客完全使用移动设备访问其服务，而去年同期这个数字是12.5亿。
Shares of Facebook surged more than 6 percent in after-hours trading.
Facebook的股价在盘后交易中大涨，涨幅逾6%。