BERLIN — Some people think they see statues of saints weeping or an image of Jesus in their toast. A woman in western Germany recently thought she saw Adolf Hitler on a cup, nestled between rose petals and gaudy English writing. It turns out she was not imagining the profile of the man with a toothbrush mustache.
柏林——有些人以为，他们举杯的时候看到了圣人挥泪像或是耶稣像。最近，德国西部的一名女性认为，她在杯子上看到了阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)，掩映在玫瑰花瓣与花哨的英文词句中间。结果证实，这个留着一撮板刷胡的男性侧面像的确不是她想象出来的。
The question of how hundreds of cups bearing a stamp from the Third Reich showing Hitler’s profile made their way to the shelves of a family-owned furniture and housewares chain has become a matter for the authorities. On Friday, prosecutors in Dortmund said they had opened an investigation over a display of Nazi symbols, which is illegal in Germany.
几百个这样的杯子被摆上了一间家居用品家族连锁店的货架上，上面印着一张带有希特勒侧面像的第三帝国邮票。关于这件事究竟如何发生的疑问，成为了当局研究的对象。上周五，多特蒙德的检察部门表示，已开启了针对纳粹标识展示的调查。在德国，这种展示属于违法行为。
“Nothing like this has ever happened in 75 years that my family has been in the business,” said Christian Zurbrüggen, director of the chain based in Unna, Germany, that bears his family’s name. He said the cups had been ordered from a producer in China and nobody noticed the stamp, visible only on some of the cups, when they were unpacked and put on display.
“我们家族做这行生意有75个年头，从来没有发生过这种事，”连锁店老板克里斯蒂安·楚尔布吕根(Christian Zurbrüggen)说。这家店位于德国翁纳，用他的家族姓氏命名。他说，杯子从中国的一家生产商订制，开封与上架的时候谁也没注意到上面的邮票图案。这部分图案只在部分杯子上清晰可见。
The kitschy, vintage-style cups were on sale for three days at the Zurbrüggen stores before anyone noticed the small stamp showing the profile of the Nazi dictator above the word “Reich,” complete with a swastika postmark.
这种复古风格的俗丽杯子在楚尔布吕根的店里销售了三天后，才有人注意到那张小小的邮票图案上有纳粹独裁者希特勒的侧面像，下面带有德语的“帝国”字样，以及一个卐字标。
“Our workers are dismayed and embarrassed, the producer has apologized for the error, and we have apologized to our customers for this terrible mistake that resulted from a chain of unfortunate circumstances,” Mr. Zurbrüggen said in a telephone interview.
“我们的员工深感不安与难堪。生产商为这个失误表示了道歉，我们也为这个源于一连串令人遗憾的情况的可怕错误而向顾客道了歉，”楚尔布吕根通过电话接受采访称。
Customers have been offered a 20-euro gift certificate in exchange for returning their Hitler cup, which originally sold for 1.99 euros.
这款希特勒杯子原来的售价是1.99欧元（约合17元人民币）。退还杯子的客户可以得到店里提供的20欧元礼品卡作为补偿。
The cups came to the public’s attention after a woman from the city of Herford, identified only as Agnes T., brought a cup to her local newspaper, the Neue Westfälische. “I thought I wasn’t seeing right,” she told the newspaper.
这批杯子之所以进入公众视野，是因为黑尔福德市的一名女性将它送到了当地的《新威斯特法伦报》(Neue Westfälische)那里。她公布出来的名字仅为阿格尼丝·T(Agnes T.)。“我以为自己看错了，”她告诉这家报纸。
So far, 16 of the 175 sold have been returned, reflecting a certain popularity of the cups that caught the attention of the German media and even stirred the interest of the country’s Museum of Contemporary History.
截至目前，卖出的175个杯子中有16个被退还，显示出受到德国媒体关注的这款杯子拥有一定的知名度。它甚至还挑起了德国当代历史博物馆(Museum of Contemporary History)的兴趣。
“It is our mission to collect objects that have a relevance to contemporary culture,” said Peter Hoffmann, a spokesman for the museum in Bonn. The museum’s interest does not lie in the uproar surrounding the cups, Mr. Hoffmann said.
“收藏与当代文化有关的物品是我们的宗旨，”博物馆发言人彼得·霍夫曼(Peter Hoffmann)称。该博物馆坐落在波恩。霍夫曼还表示，该馆的兴趣点并不在于围绕这款杯子的巨大反响。
“It’s the story that is behind the cup that is interesting,” he said. “But we don’t know right now how it came to be, whether it was intended as a joke, or was simply ignorance.”
“有意思的是杯子背后的故事，”他说。“不过，我们现在还不知道究竟发生了什么，到底是故意开玩笑呢，还是简单的疏忽。”
Mr. Zurbrüggen said his company was cooperating with prosecutors to help resolve that very question and have inquired with the Chinese producers and the company that designed the cup. The remaining stock has been destroyed, he said.
楚尔布吕根表示，他的公司正在与检察部门合作，以协助解决这一问题，并且已经询问了中国制造商，以及设计这款杯子的企业。他还表示，剩下的库存已被销毁。
Germans are highly sensitized to reproductions of Nazi symbols, which are banned in the country, and move swiftly to remove them or take action against anyone displaying them. Yet in spite, or perhaps because of this, every time an image of Hitler pops up somewhere, it still causes a sensation.
德国明令禁止纳粹标识。德国人对此类标识的重现高度敏感，会迅速予以移除或对展示者采取行动。尽管如此，也许正因为如此，每次在哪里冒出希特勒像，仍会掀起轩然大波。
“Whenever Hitler shows up, the world shows an interest,” Mr. Hoffmann said.
“每当希特勒出现的时候，全世界都会关注，”霍夫曼说。