There is no plot to speak of, and the characters are woefully undeveloped. On the upside, it can be a quick read — especially considering its 1,250 pages.
这本书没有情节，里面的人物不幸没有充分展开。不过好处是你能很快读完，尽管它有1250页。
The book, more art than literature, consists of the single word “Jew,” in tiny type, printed six million times to signify the number of Jews killed during the Holocaust. It is meant as a kind of coffee-table monument of memory, a conversation starter and thought provoker.
这本书更像艺术品而非文学作品，它只有一个单词“Jew”（犹太人），它的字号很小，重复了600万次，代表在纳粹大屠杀中死亡的犹太人的个数。它意在成为一种咖啡桌纪念品、一个谈话引子和一个引人沉思的东西。
“When you look at this at a distance, you can’t tell whether it’s upside down or right side up, you can’t tell what’s here; it looks like a pattern,” said Phil Chernofsky, the author, though that term may be something of a stretch. “That’s how the Nazis viewed their victims: These are not individuals, these are not people, these are just a mass we have to exterminate.
“从远处看，你看不出它是反面朝上还是正面朝上，也看不出它是什么东西；它看起来像个图案，”作者菲尔·切诺夫斯基(Phil Chernofsky)说。不过称他为“作者”也许是用了这个词的延伸义。“纳粹就是这么看待那些受害者的：他们不是个体，不是人类，只是必须消灭的一堆东西。”
“Now get closer, put on your reading glasses, and pick a ‘Jew,’ ” Mr. Chernofsky continued. “That Jew could be you. Next to him is your brother. Oh, look, your uncles and aunts and cousins and your whole extended family. A row, a line, those are your classmates. Now you get lost in a kind of meditative state where you look at one word, ‘Jew,’ you look at one Jew, you focus on it and then your mind starts to go because who is he, where did he live, what did he want to do when he grew up?”
“现在你戴上眼镜，凑近看，选一个‘犹太人’，”切诺夫斯基继续说道，“那个犹太人可能就是你。他旁边的是你的兄弟。哦，看，你的叔叔阿姨和表亲，你的整个大家庭。还有那一行，都是你的同学。这时你陷入沉思，你看着那个单词‘犹太人’，你看着那个犹太人，你全神贯注，然后你开始想他是谁，他曾住在哪里，他长大后想做什么。”
The concept is not entirely original. More than a decade ago, eighth graders in a small Tennessee town set out to collect six million paper clips, as chronicled in a 2004 documentary. The anonymity of victims and the scale of the destruction is also expressed in the seemingly endless piles of shoes and eyeglasses on exhibit at former death camps in Eastern Europe.
这不是个全新的概念。十多年前，田纳西州一个小镇上的八年级学生打算收集600万个回形针，2004年发布的一个纪录片记录了这个过程。东欧死亡集中营遗址上展出了一堆堆鞋子和眼镜，以展现受害者身份不明，屠杀规模庞大。
Now Gefen Publishing, a Jerusalem company, imagines this book, titled “And Every Single One Was Someone,” making a similar statement in every church and synagogue, school and library.
现在，耶路撒冷的格芬出版社(Gefen Publishing)希望这本书在每个教堂和犹太教会堂、学校和图书馆做出了类似的声明。这本书名叫《每个人都曾是某个人》(And Every Single One Was Someone)。
While many Jewish leaders in the United States have embraced the book, some Holocaust educators consider it a gimmick. It takes the opposite tack of a multimillion-dollar effort over many years by Yad Vashem, the Holocaust memorial and museum here, that has so far documented the identities of 4.3 million Jewish victims. These fill the monumental “Book of Names,” 6 1/2 feet tall and 46 feet in circumference, which was unveiled last summer at Auschwitz-Birkenau.
尽管美国的很多犹太裔领导人认可这本书，但是有些大屠杀教育工作者认为它只是个小花招。纽约的大屠杀纪念馆(Yad Vashem)多年来花费数百万美元采取了相反的行动，到目前为止用文件证明了430万犹太受害者的身份。他们的名字填满了不朽的《名单录》(Book of Names)，这个名单高6.5英尺，周长46英尺，去年夏天在奥斯维辛集中营揭幕。
“We have no doubt that this is the right way to deal with the issue,” said Avner Shalev, Yad Vashem’s director. “We understand that human life, human beings, individuals are at the center of our research and education. This is the reason we are investing so much in trying to retrieve every single human being, his name, and details about his life.”
“我们确信这是对待这个问题的正确方法，”大屠杀纪念馆的馆长阿夫纳·沙莱夫(Avner Shalev)说，“我们认为人的生命、人类和个人是我们调查和教育的中心。这也是为什么我们做了这么多调查，努力确定每个人的名字和他生活的细节。”
Mr. Shalev declined to address the new book directly, but said dismissively, “Every year we have 6,000 books published about the Shoah,” using the Hebrew term for the Holocaust.
沙莱夫拒绝直接就这本新书发表评论，但是他轻蔑地说，“每年出版的关于Shoah（“大屠杀”的希伯来语）的书多达6000册。”
The book’s backers do not deny its gimmickry — Mr. Chernofsky used the Yiddish word “shtick” — but see it as a powerful one.
这本书的支持者不否认它耍了个花招——切诺夫斯基用意第绪语“shtick”（小把戏）来形容这本书——但是他们认为它是一本有力量的书。
Ilan Greenfield, Gefen’s chief executive, noted that there is a blank line on the title page where people can dedicate each book, perhaps to a survivor like his mother-in-law.“Almost everyone who looks at the book cannot stop flipping the pages,” he said. “Even after they’ve looked at 10 pages and they know they’re only going to see the same word, they keep flipping.”
格芬出版社的首席执行官伊兰·格林菲尔德(Ilan Greenfield)指出，扉页上有一行空白，购买者可以把书献给别人，比如献给一个幸存者。格林菲尔德把书献给了自己的岳母。“几乎每个看到这本书的人都会忍不住一直翻，”他说，“即使在他们看完前10页、知道自己只会看到同样的单词时，他们还会继续翻。”
The Gefen catalog lists the book for $60, but Mr. Greenfield said individual copies would probably sell for closer to $90 (buy 1,000 copies and it is $36 each). Since the book went on the market a few months ago, he said, 5,000 have been printed. One person bought 100 to distribute to the offices of United States senators, and Jewish leaders in Australia and South Africa, Los Angeles and Denver, have bought batches for their communities.
在格芬出版社的书目上，这本书标价60美元，但是格林菲尔德说单本书的售价可能接近90美元（一次性购买1000册的话，每本36美元）。他说，从几个月前这本书上市以来，已经印刷了5000册。有个人买了100册分发到美国参议员的办公室，澳大利亚、南非、洛杉矶和丹佛的犹太裔领导人为自己的社区成批购书。
Abraham H. Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League, enlisted three donors to buy 1,000 each and is giving them away: He wants one in the Oval Office and, eventually, on every Passover Seder table. “When he brought me this book I said, ‘Wow, wow, it makes it so real,’ ” said Mr. Foxman, himself a Holocaust survivor. “It’s haunting.”
反诽谤联盟的全国主席亚伯拉罕·H·福克斯曼(Abraham H. Foxman)征集三个捐助人每人购买了1000册，现在他正在分发这些书：他想让总统办公室有一本，希望最终每个逾越节家宴上都有一本。“他给我带来这本书时，我说‘哇唔，哇呜，它让人身临其境’，”福克斯曼说。他本人就是大屠杀的幸存者。“它让人难以忘怀。”
The idea began in the late 1970s at the Yeshiva of Central Queens in Kew Gardens Hills,  where Mr. Chernofsky taught math, science and Jewish studies and, one year, was put in charge of the bulletin board for Holocaust Remembrance Day.
这个想法始于20世纪70年代末，那时候切诺夫斯基在皇后区中心邱园山的犹太学校教数学、科学和犹太研究，有一年他负责大屠杀纪念日的公告栏。
“I gave them blank paper, and I said, no talking for the next 30 minutes — that was a pleasure,” recalled Mr. Chernofsky, 65, who grew up in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and moved to Israel 32 years ago. “I said, ‘I want you to write the word Jew as many times as you can, no margins, just pack them in, just take another paper and another paper until I say stop.’
“我给他们发了些白纸，我说接下来的30分钟不要说话——那是一种乐趣，”65岁的切诺夫斯基回忆说。他在布鲁克林的皇冠高地长大，32年前搬到以色列。“我说，‘我想让你们写Jew这个单词，能写多少遍就写多少遍，不要留空白，写得满满的，写完一张再写一张，一直写到我说停止。’”
“We added up the whole class,” he added. “It was 40,000 — nothing.”
“我们把班上所有学生写的单词加起来，”他补充说，“一共四万个——没什么。”
Years later, Mr. Chernofsky printed out pages filled with “Jew” six million times and put them in a loose-leaf notebook, which he showed visitors to his messy office here at the Orthodox Union, where he is the educational director. His uncle took the notebook to a Jerusalem book fair, where a bookbinder saw it, and made a limited edition. Mr. Greenfield eventually came across a copy and approached Mr. Chernofsky about 18 months ago with the idea of mass production.
多年后，担任美国犹太正教联盟教育主任的切诺夫斯基把写满600万个“犹太人”的页面打印出来，放到一个活页笔记本里，给到他凌乱的办公室访问的人看。他叔叔把这个笔记本带到耶路撒冷的一个书展上，一个装订商看见了这个笔记本，制作了一个限量版。格林菲尔德最终偶然见到了其中一本，约18个月前与切诺夫斯基联系，商量批量生产的事。
Each page has 40 columns of 120 lines — 4,800 “Jews.” The font is Minion; the size, 5.5 point. The book weighs 7.3 pounds.
每页有40列，120行，4800个“犹太人”。字体是Minion，字号是5.5。这本书重7.3磅。
Its titleless cover depicts a Jewish prayer shawl, sometimes used to wrap bodies for burial. Mr. Chernofsky said it was Gefen’s choice; he would have preferred solid black, or a yellow star like those the Nazis made Jews wear.
封面上没有名字，只有一个犹太教祈祷披巾，这种披巾有时被用于包裹下葬的尸体。切诺夫斯基说这是格芬出版社的选择，他更喜欢封面是纯黑色或者有一颗纳粹强迫犹太人佩戴的黄星。
An Orthodox Jew with nine grandchildren, Mr. Chernofsky is a numbers man, the kind of person who cannot climb stairs without counting them (41 up to his apartment). “Torah Tidbits,” the publication he has edited for two decades, always lists the number of sentences in the week’s Torah portion (118 in last week’s “Statutes”).
切诺夫斯基是个正统派犹太人，有9个孙辈。他特别喜欢计数，只要爬楼梯一定会数台阶的个数（上到他的公寓要走41个台阶）。他担任《律法珍闻》(Torah Tidbits)的编辑20年，该杂志总是列出每周节选的《律法》的行数（上周的“律文”有118行）。
He likes to play with calendars, and is tickled that for the next three months, the Hebrew and English dates match: Feb. 1 is the first of Adar, April 30 the 30th of Nissan.
他喜欢研究日历，为接下来的三个月里希伯来日历和英语日历的对应之处而兴奋：2月1日是犹太教历12月的第一天，4月30日是犹太教历1月的30号。
Mr. Greenfield, the publisher, said his goal was eventually to print six million copies of “And Every Single One Was Someone.” With each copy 2.76 inches wide, that would fill 261 miles of bookshelves — just shy of Israel’s 263-mile north-south span. (And net Mr. Chernofsky, at his contracted rate of $1.80 per book, $10.8 million.)
出版人格林菲尔德说他的目标是最终印刷600万册。每册宽2.76英寸，将填满261英里长的书架——只比以色列263英里的南北长度短一点（合同约定的版税是每册1.8美元，所以切诺夫斯基一共将得到1080万美元）。
“Harry Potter, in seven volumes, used 1.1 million words,” noted Mr. Chernofsky, a devotee who has a Quidditch broom hanging in his office. “This has six million in it, so I outdid J. K. Rowling.”
“《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)七册一共110万字，”切诺夫斯基说。他很喜欢这套书，他的办公室挂着一个魁地奇扫帚。“这本书有600万字，所以我超过了J·K·罗琳(J. K. Rowling)。”