This was a sound no musician should have to suffer: the destruction of her longtime instrument. In Wu Man’s case, in June, it was a loud crack, heard from her seat as a flight attendant, trying to stow her pipa in a coat closet up front, dropped it, breaking its neck.
亲耳听着陪伴自己多年的乐器被摧毁——没有任何音乐家应当承受这种痛苦。今年6月，吴曼就经历了这样的事，她坐在自己的位子上，一个空服人员想把她的琵琶堆到上面的衣物存储箱内，一个失手，琵琶摔在地上，折断了琴颈，发出破裂的巨响。
The pipa is a Chinese lute of ancient origin, with four plucked strings and a pear-shaped body, played upright in the lap. Its back consists of a single heavy piece of wood, exquisitely curved from a rounded bottom to a tapering neck.
琵琶是一种类似鲁特琴的中国古乐器，琴身呈梨形，有四根拨弦，放在膝上弹奏。琴身后部用一块厚重的木板制成，圆形的底部到细细的琴颈形成一条精美的弧线。
With that neck broken clean off the body, Ms. Wu’s instrument of 17 years, valued at some $50,000 and uninsured, was deemed irreparable. But thanks to US Airways, whose employee inflicted the damage, Ms. Wu has a new pipa, made in Beijing by the same master who had made her old one.
吴曼这把琴用了17年，价值5万美元，未上保险，这一下把琴颈彻底摔掉了，肯定无法修理。造成这一损害事故的是全美航空公司的职员，公司赔偿了吴曼一把新琵琶，由制作她原来那把琵琶的大师在北京制作。
She will display it proudly in Hartford on Friday and Saturday evenings, when she performs Lou Harrison’s Concerto for Pipa With String Orchestra in the season-opening concerts of the Hartford Symphony Orchestra. Ms. Wu has done more than perhaps anyone else to popularize the instrument in the West, with her performances and recordings of both Western and Chinese traditional music and her work with the cellist Yo-Yo Ma’s Silk Road Project.
周五和周六晚，作为本音乐季的开场演出之一，吴曼将在哈特福德与哈特福德交响乐团合作，演奏卢·哈里森(Lou Harrison)作曲的“琵琶与管弦乐协奏曲”，届时她将自豪地使用这把乐器。在将琵琶向西方推广的过程中，吴曼所做的贡献也比任何人都大，她的演出和录音中既有西方曲目，也有中国传统曲目，还参与了大提琴家马友友的“丝绸之路”项目。
“It’s a story that started with anger and has a happy ending,” Ms. Wu said this week in New York.
“这是个转嗔为喜的故事，”本周吴女士在纽约说。
The June accident occurred as she was boarding a flight from Philadelphia to New Haven to join the Kronos Quartet in a concert at the International Festival of Arts and Ideas. Unable to fit the pipa in an overhead bin, she started to strap it into an empty seat next to her, as she had often done before.
6月的事故发生在从费城到纽黑文的航班上，她将在那里与克罗诺斯四重奏(Kronos Quartet)合作，在国际艺术与创意节(International Festival of Arts and Ideas)上演出。她的琵琶在头顶的行李厢放不下，只能放在身边的空座位上，她以前一贯都是这样做的。
“The flight attendant was in a bad mood,” Ms. Wu said. The attendant instructed her to remain in her seat and took the instrument to the front with fateful results.
“那个空乘人员脾气很差，”吴曼说，那人让她不要站起来，然后把她的乐器放了上去，于是造成了致命后果。
“That instrument was quite special to me,” Ms. Wu said. “I made my whole career with her. I call her ‘her.’ ”
“那件乐器对我来说非同寻常，”吴曼说，“我的整个演奏生涯都是和她一起缔造的，我用‘她’来称呼之。”
She left the plane but eventually made her way to New Haven, where she played on an instrument borrowed by the festival from a pipa teacher who lived an hour and a half away. Lacking a concert-quality backup instrument, Ms. Wu has had to borrow instruments from others in recent months.
她下机后最终还是赶往纽黑文，从一个家住一个半小时车程之外的琵琶教师那里借来了一把琵琶，在艺术节上演出。因为没有满足音乐会演出品质的后备琵琶，几个月来，吴曼都得从别人那里借琴演出。
When asked why she didn’t have a hard carrying case for the pipa of the type commonly used for Western instruments, Ms. Wu said that good ones simply don’t exist, the pipa being so distinctive in shape and not heavily traveled. She is researching ways to manufacture one, she added.
她为什么不用西方乐手常用的那种硬盒子携带琵琶呢？吴曼说，琵琶的形状太特殊，而且也不经常旅行，适合它的乐器盒根本就不存在。她补充说，目前她已经在设法定制了。
Similarly, when asked why the pipa wasn’t insured, she said that insurance was not readily available for an instrument that Western companies know so little about and don’t know how to value. She’s doing research there, too.
还有，她的琵琶为什么不上保险呢？她回答说西方公司对这种乐器知之甚少，不知如何估价，因此没有这个险种。目前她也已经在研究这个问题了。
Her subsequent dealings with US Airways were “quite a pleasant experience,” she said. “I talked to the airline people every week.” With help from friends but using no lawyer, she reached a settlement covering the full cost of the instrument, and the company flew her to China twice to consult with the maker on finishing touches.
她说，她与全美航空公司的后续交涉是“相当愉快的经历”，“我每周都要和航空公司的人交流”。没请律师，在朋友们的帮助下，她达成一份协议，公司全价赔偿她的乐器，并提供两次她飞往中国的机票，与制琴者研究琴的润色细节。
The terms of the settlement prevent her from revealing the cost, but she said that new instruments, varying widely in quality, can run from $15,000 to $150,000. A spokesman for the airline confirmed the details of the settlement.
协议条款规定她不得透露赔偿金额，但她说，新乐器质量差别相当大，价格可以在1.5万美元到15万美元不等。航空公司的发言人也确认了协议细节。
The new pipa is a beauty to look at, with a back of aged rosewood, a face of sycamore and frets made of bamboo. It is also a beauty to hear in Ms. Wu’s hands, though she senses the need for some seasoning of the instrument and some adjusting of her own.
新的琵琶外形美观，琴背以老红木制成，琴面用桐木打造，品格是用竹子制成。吴曼用它弹出的音乐也十分美妙，但她觉得这件乐器还需要磨合，她自己也需要一些调整。
“It’s comfortable,” she said. “It definitely has potential, but it will take a couple of years to get my own music out of it.” Clearly, she relishes the challenge.
“弹起来很舒服，”她说，“它的确很有潜力，但要过几年才能在上面真正弹出我自己的音乐。”显然她喜欢这个挑战。