For the first of her four years at Parsons the New School for Design, Sabrina Banta lived in a siren-tormented dorm on East 15th Street near a hospital. She later moved to Williamsburg, Brooklyn, for three years, sharing two different light-deprived rentals with several roommates.
萨宾娜·班塔(Sabrina Banta)在进入帕森斯设计学院(Parsons the New School for Design)就读的第一年，住在一间要忍受救护车鸣叫声折磨的宿舍里，就位于东15街(East 15th Street)一家医院的附近。后来，她搬到了布鲁克林的威廉斯堡社区(Williamsburg)，在三年时间里，与几名室友先后合住过两处光线不足的出租屋。
The commute between Williamsburg and school or internship — she had a total of five internships during her photography studies — took its toll. If she didn’t have to awaken early and be on site at 6 a.m., she braved the L train, so jammed during the morning rush that she often let several trains pass before shoving her way in. With assorted retail, restaurant, babysitting and freelance jobs, she found herself constantly on the run.
当时，她往返于威廉斯堡与学校或实习地点之间——在学习摄影的过程中，她一共做了五份实习工作——那段经历实在让人痛苦不堪。如果无需一早醒来并赶在清晨6点钟准时到达，她就会去勇敢地搭乘L线列车，在早高峰期间，那趟列车总是拥挤不堪，所以她往往得让过好几趟车才能挤进去。就这样，辗转于餐厅、临时保姆、各类零售店与自由职业的工作之中，她发现自己一直在奔波。
When she graduated in the spring, her family flew out from Honolulu, where Ms. Banta, now 21, grew up. After the commencement, her father, Norman Banta, returned home with her brother, while her mother, Liza Nordin, remained for a few weeks to help her figure out where to live.
今年春天，她毕业了，家人从檀香山(Honolulu)飞了过来，那里是现年21岁的班塔成长的地方。参加完毕业典礼之后，她的父亲诺曼·班塔带着她哥哥一起回家了，而她的母亲莉莎·诺丁(Liza Nordin)则多待了几个礼拜，帮她寻找一个住处。
“We knew we had to do something about permanent housing, because we knew she was not coming back to Hawaii,” Ms. Nordin said. “She was spending an obscene amount of money on cabs because she was always running late.”
“我们知道，为了有个稳定的住处，我们得做点什么，因为我们很清楚她不会再回夏威夷了，”诺丁说，“她已经在计程车上花掉了大把的钱，因为她总是快要迟到。”
Ms. Banta’s parents are both real estate agents in Hawaii, yet they were shocked at New York’s tiny studios, high prices and unheard-of broker fees. A rental budget of $2,000 a month didn’t go far. “We were just horrified,” Ms. Nordin said.
班塔的父母都是夏威夷的房地产经纪人，尽管如此，他们还是对纽约市单间公寓的面积之小、房价之高昂和闻所未闻的经纪人佣金感到震惊。租金预算定在每月2000美元（约合人民币12260元）的话，根本找不到什么地方。“我们都觉得很恐怖。”诺丁说。
For a similar monthly cost, they could buy a nicer place. So Ms. Banta and her mother went on the hunt for a studio co-op costing up to $300,000.
而以相当于这笔预算的月度支出，他们都可以买下一个更好的地方了。于是班塔和妈妈打算到处找找，购置一套单间合作公寓(co-op)，预算上限是30万美元（约合人民币184万元）。
They found candidates like a rectangular room in a large prewar elevator building on West 72nd Street near Central Park West. At just under $300,000, with monthly maintenance in the mid-$800s, the place was more of an eat-in bedroom than an apartment. Ms. Banta found it “kind of scary” that for a moment she actually thought, “I could live here.” (It sold for $285,000.)
她们找到了一些候选房产，比如一套方形的单间公寓，位于西72街(West 72nd Street)靠近中央公园西的一栋战前电梯公寓楼中。这套公寓的售价略低于30万美元，每月的物业费在850美元（约合人民币5211元）左右。这个地方更像是一间可以在里面吃饭的卧室，而非一套公寓。但有一瞬间，班塔竟然觉得“我也可以住在这”，她发现这种想法“有点可怕”（这套公寓后来以28.5万美元[约合人民币175万元]的价格售出了）。
A $269,000 studio on East 18th Street was in contract when they saw the listing, but the ad connected them with an agent, Angela Britzman of Bond New York.
她们见到东18街(East 18th Street)那套售价26.9万美元（约合人民币165万元）的单间公寓时，其租约还没到期，但是该房源的广告让她们与一位经纪人、Bond New York公司的安吉拉·布瑞兹曼(Angela Britzman)联系上了。
They soon arrived at a studio with a loft sleeping area in a five-story walk-up in Chelsea. The price was $299,000, with monthly maintenance of $500. The 450-square-foot studio was in good shape, with high ceilings, an exposed brick wall, a large closet and a quiet back view. A partial wall separated the kitchen from the living/bedroom.
他们很快在切尔西(Chelsea)的一栋五层无电梯公寓楼中找到一套就寝区为跃层设计的单间公寓，售价29.9万美元（约合人民币183万元），每月的物业费500美元（约合人民币3065元）。这套面积450平方英尺（约42平米）的单间公寓房型不错，室内有高高的天花板、一面裸露的砖墙、一个大橱柜，屋后是一处静谧的风景。一堵半高的墙壁将厨房与那间客厅兼卧室分隔开来。
Ms. Banta climbed into the loft. “When you know, you know,” she said. “I loved the way the apartment felt to me. I didn’t want to see anything else. There was something so comforting about it.”
班塔爬进了跃层卧室中。“感觉对的时候，你自然就知道了，”她说，“我喜欢这套公寓带给我的感觉。我不想再看别的地方了。这里有种说不出来的舒适感。”
The studio was in a small, self-managed building in a Housing Development Fund Corporation co-op with a household income restriction of around $50,000 a year. But the building also required a down payment of at least 50 percent.
这套公寓位于一栋自主管理的小楼中，属于住房开发基金公司(Housing Development Fund Corporation)的合作公寓。这里限定入住家庭的年收入大约为5万美元（约合人民币31万元），但这栋楼还要求至少50%的预付款。
“I’ve never heard of such a thing,” Ms. Nordin said. “It’s just weird. If you’re young, where are you going to get the money to put down, unless a parent or somebody is helping you?”
“我从没听过这样的事，”诺丁说，“就是觉得奇怪。如果你是年轻人，该去哪儿筹措资金来交这笔钱呢，除非是有父母或其他什么人来帮你吧？”
But the family fit that narrow category. “We were in a position to help Sabrina and believe this is an investment in her, because I want her to be settled and safe and start her career,” Ms. Nordin said. “I am 5,000 miles away.”
但他们家刚好就处于那个狭窄的范围之内。“我们要做的是去帮助萨宾娜，就当这是对她的一笔投资。因为我想让她安稳下来，再开展她的事业，”诺丁说，“我离她有5000英里（约807公里）之远。”
The family put in an offer. But because of the financial requirements, “I thought we had to have some backup,” Ms. Britzman said. She lined up other places to see.
这家人提出了一个报价。但由于有那些财务要求，“我想，我们得有一些备选的地方，”布瑞兹曼说。她列出了其它有待走访的房源。
Ms. Banta, busy with work, had no time. So her mother went “and ruled them out for me,” she said.
班塔则忙于工作，没有时间了。于是她的母亲去了，“并为我回绝了那些地方。”她说。
Madison Gardens, a small postwar elevator building on far West 34th Street, had a rectangular studio, over budget at $399,000, with monthly maintenance of around $600. Ms. Nordin thought the place was nice, but decided the nearby Hudson Yards area “was very industrial and had no neighborhood feeling.”
在西34街(West 34th Street)西侧的一栋小型战后电梯楼“麦迪逊花园”(Madison Gardens)中，有一套方形的单间公寓，39.9万美元（约合人民币245万元）的价格超出了预算，每月的物业费大约在600美元（约合人民币3678元）。诺丁觉得这地方不错，但附近的“哈德逊庭院”(Hudson Yards)那片地方“太工业化了，没有一点住宅区的感觉”。
On West 85th Street, Ms. Nordin saw a cute renovated studio with a loft on the ground floor of a small walk-up. The price was nearly $300,000, with monthly maintenance in the low $600s.
在西85街(West 85th Street)，诺丁看了一套翻修过的小巧单间公寓，带一处跃层设计，位于一栋小型无电梯公寓楼的底层。这套公寓价格接近30万美元，每月的物业费不到650美元（约合人民币3985元）。
The open house was crowded, and “it seemed like it was going to go really fast,” Ms. Britzman said. And Ms. Banta preferred to remain downtown, on familiar turf. (Both it and the Madison Gardens studio are now in contract.)
看房那天来了很多人，“看上去像是这套公寓很快就会卖出去了一样，”布瑞兹曼说。但班塔还是想留在市中心，住在熟悉的地方（这套单间公寓与麦迪逊花园那套，现在都已签了合约）。
Meanwhile, the application for the Chelsea studio went forward. “That was a steep learning curve. It was very nerve-racking and stressful,” Ms. Nordin said. She even blogged about it for her Hawaii readers.
与此同时，切尔西那套单间公寓的申请事项还在推进。“这是一次艰难的学习过程，让人很伤脑筋，而且压力很大，”诺丁说。她甚至在博客上为她的夏威夷读者讲述了这件事。
The family bought the studio for $294,000. “Sabrina fit the profile of the building, and it was love at first sight,” said Neil Tilbury of Halstead Property, the selling agent. “For her, it was a rare opportunity to find something downtown in a lower price range.”
这家人以29.4万美元（约合人民币180万元）的价格买下了这套单间公寓。“萨宾娜符合这栋公寓楼的要求，而且这套公寓让人看一眼就爱上了，”这套房产的卖方经纪人、哈尔斯泰德房地产公司(Halstead Property)的尼尔·蒂尔伯里(Neil Tilbury)说，“在市中心找到一套处于较低价格区间的房产，对她来说是个不可多得的机遇。”
Ms. Banta arrived last month, and also landed a new job at an ad agency in the West Village, an easy walk.
班塔上个月搬了进去，又在西村(West Village)的一家广告公司找到一份新工作，那里只要走走就到了。