ANSAN, South Korea — The cluttered store next to the gate of Danwon High School in the drab industrial city of Ansan is jammed with school necessities. White gym uniforms hang in the window, behind dusty glass. Pens and pencils are sorted neatly into cubbyholes, and a freezer full of ice cream sits outside as a lure for passing students.
韩国安山——在单调的工业城市安山，檀园高中(Danwon High School)校门外一家杂乱的商店里堆满了各种校园用品。蒙着灰尘的玻璃窗上挂着白色的运动服；钢笔和铅笔被整齐地码放在架子上；堆满冰激凌的冰柜则放在店外，吸引着路经此地的学生。
But much of the space in the tiny shop is devoted to perhaps its most important item: rows and rows of history and math and English-language workbooks for South Korea’s grueling university entrance exams. Now, Kim In-jea, the store’s co-owner, doubts he will sell many of the 11th-grade books, and he does not expect even to stock the 12th-grade versions next year.
然而，这家小店里的大部分空间，都被用于安放或许算得上是它最为重要的商品了，也就是为残酷的韩国大学入学考试准备的成摞的历史、数学和英语练习册。现在，店老板之一金仁振（Kim In-jea，音译）怀疑，他根本卖不出多少本11年级的练习册，来年他甚至不打算囤积12年级册子的货了。
The students who would have bought them went on a class trip, and most will never return.
本来会购买练习册的学生们出门参加年级旅行，其中的大部分人却永远也回不来了。
Nearly three quarters of Danwon’s 11th graders died two weeks ago in the sinking of a ferry that ranks as one of the country’s deadliest disasters in recent decades.
檀园高中的11年级学生中，有近四分之三在两周前的沉船事故中遇难。这是最近数十年里，韩国经历的死伤最为惨重的灾难之一。
“I’ve seen these kids grow up. I know each of their faces,” said Mr. Kim, 57, who lives nearby and said seven of his neighbors lost their children. “To say that this neighborhood feels empty would be an understatement. This neighborhood feels like a morgue.”
“我看着这些孩子长大，认得他们每个人的脸，”57岁的金仁振说。他就住在附近，有七户邻居经历了丧子之痛。“说这片居民区感觉空荡荡的都太轻描淡写了，真的是死气沉沉。”
The loss has been a blow to the country more commonly known for its economic prowess and pop culture exports. But the tragedy has hit especially hard in Gojan 1, the run-down working-class district surrounding the school. Each of the low-slung brick apartment buildings, residents say, was home to at least three or four students who perished.
对于一个因经济成就和流行文化输出而更为人熟知的国家而言，这次的损失是一种打击。然而，这起悲剧对学校周边破败的工人阶层居民区古栈1区的打击尤为沉重。居民们表示，在每栋低矮的砖砌公寓楼里，都曾居住着至少三到四名遇难学生。
Gojan 1 is normally alive with the bustle of teenagers doing what they do — crowding the local Internet cafe to play computer games or heading in chattering groups to Wongojan Public Library to study or to the after-school “cram” classes ubiquitous in South Korea.
古栈1区通常会因为少男少女的忙碌生活而显得生气勃勃——他们挤在当地的网吧里玩电脑游戏、三五成群叽叽喳喳地涌入元古栈公共图书馆(Wongojan Public Library)学习，或者去参加韩国无处不在的课后“补习”班。
Now, residents describe a mournful stillness, punctuated by the seemingly endless arrival of long funeral processions paying their last respects at the children’s school. There have been 156 funerals so far. On Sunday alone there were 30, most for the students who went down with the ferry.
现在，居民们描述的却是种悲伤寂静的生活，只会不时被似乎源源到来的送葬队伍所打断。这些队伍的目的地是孩子们的学校，为的是向他们致以最后的敬意。迄今为止，这里已经举行了156场葬礼。仅在周日一天，就有30场，其中的大多数死者是在沉船事故中遇难的学生。
The pall has radiated out into Ansan, a port city an hour southwest of Seoul where factories stamp out auto parts and electronics, and where the landscape is dominated by rows of identical apartment blocks. The city of 763,000 people, those who live here say, has been suffocating in grief since the accident apparently claimed the lives of 250 of its children.
这种阴郁的气氛笼罩了整个安山。这座港口城市位于首尔以南一小时车程的地方，工厂生产汽车零部件和电子产品，到处是千篇一律的公寓楼。当地居民称，自从事故很可能夺走了那里250名少男少女的性命后，这座有76.3万人口的城市就陷入了令人窒息的悲恸之中。
Hospitals had been filled with most of the 75 surviving students, until almost all of them went home this week. The hospitals had also been filled with the dead: In South Korea, hospitals often double as funeral homes, and late last week, the rooms for wakes were so crowded with ferry victims that some families had to wait a day for a spot.
医院被75名幸存学生中的大部分人所挤满，直到这一周，几乎所有人都出了院为止。那里还停满了遗体：在韩国，医院往往也是殡仪馆。上周临近尾声的那几天，灵堂里停放的渡轮遇难者实在太多，以致于一些家庭不得不等上一天，才能排上位置。
At a temporary memorial built in a gym, the victims’ photos were displayed on a wall covered with yellow and white flowers. Mourners waited up to 90 minutes in a line that snaked for blocks down a sidewalk and back and forth across the yard of a nearby elementary school. On Tuesday, the memorial moved to a permanent site in a city park.
在一座体育馆里临时搭建的纪念堂中，遇难者的照片被展示在一面覆盖着黄白两色花朵的墙上。悼念者排着队，最多要等上90分钟。队伍沿着人行道蜿蜒排开，走了好几个社区，还在附近一所小学的院子里来回折了好几个弯。上周二，纪念堂才被搬到了市立公园的一处永久场地上。
“An entire grade at a high school was wiped out,” said Kim Hee-kyeum, the vice governor of Gyeonggi Province, where Ansan is located, and whose provincial government has stepped in to help overwhelmed city officials. “It is not just the 250 lost students. It is their surviving classmates, their parents, friends, neighborhoods, the entire city. It will take a long time to overcome this nightmare.”
“一所高中的整个年级都被抹去了，”安山市所属的京畿道副知事金熹谦(Kim Hee-kyeum)说。他所属的京畿道政府已向不堪重负的安山市官员给予了帮助。“不仅是250名逝去的学生。我们还要帮助他们尚在人世的同学、父母、朋友、邻居和整个安山市。要熬过这段噩梦，还需要相当长的时间。”
For now, the funeral processions — caravans of cars and buses led by a black hearse bedecked with flowers — offer the rawest expressions of the community’s grief.
现在，装饰着鲜花的黑色灵车引领着由小轿车和大客车组成的送葬队伍，最直接地表达出了该社区的悲痛情感。
One of those processions carried Park Yae-ji, whose relatives remember her as a cheerful, mature 16-year-old who helped her working mother raise her younger brother.
其中的一支队伍送别的是朴雅枝（Park Yae-ji，音译）。在亲人的记忆里，她是一名开朗成熟的16岁少女，会帮助上班的母亲照顾弟弟。
On a drizzly, gray morning this week, Yae-ji returned for the final time to Danwon High School, following a Korean custom in which the dead are taken to the various places where they spent their lives, including homes and workplaces.
本周一个天色灰暗、细雨蒙蒙的上午，雅枝最后一次回到了檀园高中。此举遵循的是韩国的一种风俗，即把死者带回生前生活过的各个地点，其中包括家和工作学习场所。
Her mother, Eom Ji-young, 37, stoic for much of the funeral, lost her composure at the sight of white chrysanthemums laid on Yae-ji’s desk, collapsing in sobs. Of the nearly 30 other desks in the classroom, all but two were decorated with white bouquets, which are given to the dead.
葬礼的大部分时间里，她37岁的母亲严芝英（Eom Ji-young，音译）表现克制，但看到雅枝的桌上安放着白菊花的时候，她丧失了冷静，抽泣着瘫倒在地。这间教室里还有近30张课桌，但只有两张没有配上献给死者的白色花束。
Teachers lined the corridors, heads bowed. Officials said there were so many funerals, the teachers had to stand like that almost all day. As Yae-ji’s family left, another hearse was already waiting outside.
教师们在走廊上列队站立，低垂着头。官员表示，葬礼实在太多，老师们必须几乎一整天都那样站立着。雅枝的家人离开的时候，又一辆灵车已经等在外面。
The students in other grades have returned to school after more than a week, and have been present for many of the grim last visits.
其他年级的学生已经返校一周有余，因此亲眼看到了许多沉痛的诀别。
They are being taught how to cope with the loss of schoolmates by “art psychologists,” who use painting, drawing and other art forms to help students express their sorrow, city and provincial officials said. School has not yet restarted for the 11th graders who remain, including the 13 who chose not to attend the class trip, and officials say they have not set a date to begin.
市里和道里的官员表示，“艺术心理学家”正在教授这些学生如何应对校友离世，通过绘画等艺术形式来帮助他们表达哀思。在世的11年级生，包括事先选择不参加年级旅行的13人，仍未重返课堂，官员表示他们还没有确定复课的日期。
The bodies of 81 students have not yet been recovered, probably guaranteeing that the school will continue to host grieving families for some time to come.
还有81名学生的遗体尚未打捞上岸。这很可能意味着，在未来一段时间里，学校还将继续接待哀伤的家人。
Yae-ji’s mother is relieved, at least, to have her daughter’s body back, to give her a proper funeral.
雅枝的妈妈感到欣慰，因为至少找回了女儿的遗体，并为她举办了体面的葬礼。
At the wake, a projector showed photographs that spanned her brief life: an infant held by beaming young parents, a small girl with bright eyes sitting barefoot in a go-cart, a young woman with long black hair and fashionable black glasses who had grown to stand shoulder to shoulder with her mother.
在守灵仪式上，投影仪放出照片，展示了雅芝短暂的一生：婴儿时抱在笑意盈盈的年轻父母怀中；闪亮双眸的小女孩赤脚坐在童车里；戴时髦黑眼镜、一头乌黑长发的少女站在母亲身旁，她已经长到和母亲一般高了。
Ms. Eom, who seemed dazed by her ordeal, pulled out a smartphone at one point to show her final conversation with her daughter, via an instant messaging service. Tenderly stroking the screen with her finger, she reread each of the messages that her daughter sent from the ferry as it departed from Incheon for an overnight ride to the resort island of Jeju.
严芝英似乎因为痛苦而颇为茫然，其间她掏出手机，展示了自己与女儿通过即时通讯服务进行的最后一次交流。她轻轻地用手指点击屏幕，重读女儿在那艘从仁川前往度假胜地济州岛的夜班船上，发回的每条消息。
“Mom, doing well so don’t worry,” she wrote. “Good night!”
“妈妈，我挺好的，不要担心，”她写道。“晚安！”
Ms. Eom’s reply, “Have a good time,” was never opened, a sign Yae-ji did not turn her phone on again. The ferry sank the next morning.
严芝英回复，“玩得愉快”，不过这则消息并没有被打开阅读。这表明，雅枝没再打开手机。第二天上午，船沉了。
After visiting Danwon on Sunday, the family began Yae-ji’s final journey, driving to a large, factory-like crematorium. After they relinquished the girl’s body, Ms. Eom crumpled to the floor.
周日拜访过檀园高中后，一家人开始送雅枝走最后一程，开车前往一座工厂式的大型火葬场。放开女儿的遗体后，严芝英瘫倒在地上。
“What am I going to do without my baby?” she cried, clutching her own mother. “Mom, tell me what I should do!”
“我的宝贝没了，我要怎么办？”她哭喊着，抓住自己母亲。“妈，告诉我该怎么办！”
Even Yae-ji’s father, Park Sang-woo, 41, a factory worker and former South Korean special forces member who had kept a firm grip on himself, broke into sobs. The couple’s only other child, 10-year-old son Seon-hwan, stroked his father’s back.
雅芝的父亲朴相佑（Park Sang-woo，音译）今年41岁，曾在韩国特种部队服役，如今在工厂工作。他本来一直在努力克制自己，现在也突然抽泣起来。这对夫妇仅剩的孩子、10岁的善焕（Seon-hwan，音译）抚摸着父亲的后背。
Similar scenes were being repeated throughout the crematorium, which hosted 16 families of Danwon High School students that day. The crematorium’s director, Lee Jae-lin, said all the agony was wearing on his employees, whom he said he would send for psychological counseling once the last funeral was completed.
类似的情景在这家火葬场反复上演。当天，这里接待了16个檀园高中学生家庭。火葬场主管李宰林（Lee Jae-lin，音译）表示，手下员工承载了巨大的悲痛，一旦葬礼办完了，他会送他们去进行心理咨询。
“Bidding farewell to one child is hard enough,” Mr. Lee said. “How do you bid farewell to 250?”
“送别一个孩子就够困难了，”李宰林说。“要怎么送别250个呢？”