The so-called micro-pad is now a buzz phrase and a cultural touchstone, thanks to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. But when single-room living was being sketched out in the floor plans of Manhattan’s first apartment buildings, particularly during the boom years of the 1920s, it was called the studio apartment.
多亏了迈克尔·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)市长，如今，所谓的“微型房”(micro-pad)才会成为一个流行词及一块文化试金石。不过，当一居室住宅出现在曼哈顿的首批公寓大楼的楼层平面图上时，特别是在20世纪20年代经济繁荣时期，它被称作“工作室式公寓”(studio apartment)。
Designed for the eager young women and men on a budget who were flocking to the city, the romantic label was intended to evoke the glamour and Bohemianism of the artist’s preferred mode of living. Studio was a “magic word,” as Anatole Broyard once wrote about his own dive apartment on Prince Street in the 1940s.
这样的公寓，是为那些满怀抱负地涌入城市的年轻男女们设计的经济户型。它那浪漫的标签，旨在唤起一种恰似艺术家们偏好的那种生活方式的十足魅力与放荡不羁。正如阿纳托莱·布鲁瓦亚尔(Anatole Broyard)曾写的，工作室是个“神奇的词”，出自他对自己20世纪40年代时所住的王子街(Prince Street)海滨公寓的描述。
Of course, it was invariably a dump — and its dumpiness was in inverse relation to the glittering fantasies of its hopeful young inhabitants. Both of these factors were essential fixtures in the best Manhattan bildungsromans, like the essays of Ruth McKenney, who wrote briskly of the fungus that grew nightly on the bathroom ceiling in the damp space she rented with her sister, Eileen, on Gay Street in the 1930s.
事实上，它向来是一处垃圾堆般的所在——其邋遢状况与那些满怀希望的年轻住户所想象的灿烂光景完全相反。在曼哈顿最优秀的教育小说（bildungsroman，源于德国文学中一种传统的小说类型，以描述主人公成长过程为主题——译注）中，这些都是不可或缺的元素。比如，20世纪30年代，露丝·麦肯尼(Ruth McKenney)的散文中就会提到她和妹妹艾琳(Eileen)在盖伊街(Gay Street)合租的公寓。她会用轻快的语言，描写每晚在浴室天花板的潮湿角落里生长的霉菌。
What has happened in the last decade has all but erased that grim (but necessary) literary and developmental construct. Clever D.I.Y.’ers now trick out their studios in ways that would shock Mr. Broyard and Ms. McKenney, whose awful apartments had an upside, forcing them into the roiling life of the city outside their doors. (The only effort Ms. McKenney made at decorating her studio was confined to trimming the fungus at night with nail clippers. Mr. Broyard painted his walls green, and hung burlap from the windows. “But I was still lonely,” he wrote in “Kafka Was the Rage: A Greenwich Village Memoir.” “It was a green loneliness now.”)
过去十年里，那些令人不快的（但又有必要存在的）文学描写和方兴未艾的建设几乎已经完全消失。被心灵手巧的DIY一族装扮一新的工作室小套间，一定会让布鲁瓦亚尔和麦肯尼感到震惊。不过，他们那糟糕的小公寓也有好的一面——可以逼迫他们走到外面喧嚣的城市生活中去（麦肯尼做过的唯一一件修饰自己公寓的事，就是在夜里用指甲刀刮霉菌。布鲁瓦亚尔则把墙漆成绿色，在窗子上挂起了粗麻布。“可我还是觉得孤单，”他在《卡夫卡风靡一时：格林威治村回忆录》[Kafka Was the Rage: A Greenwich Village Memoir]中写道，“这种孤单现在变成了绿色的。”）
Perky and crafty, or sleek and stylish, the studio today is first and foremost an attractive haven, a calling card for one’s inventiveness rather than a symbol of one’s stoicism and grit. It is also a decorating and design category all its own (see Apartment Therapy’s annual Small Cool competitions).
如今这些灵巧活泼、优美时尚的工作室公寓，首先已成为一个颇具吸引力的小港湾，一张体现某人创造力的名片，而不是其禁欲和坚韧品格的象征。而且，它本身也是隶属于装饰和设计范畴的（参见“公寓疗法”[Apartment Therapy]每年一度的Small Cool比赛）。
But it is still a launching pad, and not only for the very young. Indeed, less and less for the very young, given the high cost of real estate. Consider two studios, one on top of the other, on East 57th Street, in a diminutive six-story building from 1925 that has housed its fair share of interesting New Yorkers, including Alison Steele, the smoky-toned Nightbird of WNEW radio. The building was originally designed with two studios on each floor, but now only three are left, the others having been absorbed into abutting apartments.
但它仍旧是一个人生跳板，且并不仅限于年轻人。事实上，昂贵的房地产已经让越来越多的年轻人望而却步。让我们以两处工作室公寓为例。这两处公寓一上一下，同位于东57街一栋极小的六层楼里。1925年以来，已经有很多有趣的纽约客在这幢楼住过，包括WNEW无线电台声音沙哑性感的“夜鸟”主持人艾莉森·斯蒂尔(Alison Steele)。按这栋楼最初的设计，每层都有两间公寓，但现在总共只剩下三处了，其它公寓都已被并入毗邻的公寓里。
In 5E, we meet James Lamond, 76, a gruffly charming decorator and proprietor of the Fabric Studio in Litchfield, Conn., and Noah, a gassy, 12-year-old standard poodle, both of whom commute to the city on the odd weekend.
我们见到了住在5E的詹姆斯•拉蒙德(James Lamond)和挪亚(Noah)。詹姆斯76岁，是个粗犷迷人的装饰设计师，也是位于康涅狄格州的利奇菲尔德(Litchfield)的织物工作室(Fabric Studio)的业主。而12岁的挪亚是一条标准贵宾犬。在周末，他们偶尔会进城去。
Mr. Lamond once lived in a stately 8,000-square-foot 18th-century house that was stuffed, he said, “with many marvelous things.” Now divorced, and living in an apartment above his store in a 19th-century building in Connecticut, he has taken a maximalist’s approach to his pied-à-terre. He bragged that there are at least 100 objects in the 270-square-foot space, including 40 paintings, 2 bureaus, 5 side tables, 10 fabrics, 2 round folding tables he deploys for dinner parties of up to 8 people (though he has a china service here for 12) and Noah’s velour dog bed.
拉蒙德曾经住在一栋18世纪的富丽堂皇的大房子里。室内面积8000平方英尺（约合743平方米），用他的话来说：“里面堆满了很多奇妙的东西。”而如今，离婚后的他住在康涅狄格州自己店铺上方的一间公寓里。公寓所在的这栋大楼建于19世纪。而对于自己这处临时寓所（指他的工作室公寓——译注），他的态度与大多数人一样。他夸耀说，在这270平方英尺（约合25平方米）的范围内，至少有100件东西：40幅画、2张书桌、5张边桌、10幅织锦、2张举行宴会时至多能坐下八人的折叠式圆桌（不过他在桌上放了一套供12人使用的瓷器）以及挪亚的丝绒狗床。
“With the sofa bed open, it can get tight,” said Mr. Lamond, who used Velcro to affix the decoupage tray to the coffee table so he wouldn’t knock it over when skirting it and stepping over Noah to reach the bathroom at night. “There is only six inches without asking the dog to get up,” he said. (The building doesn’t have a weight restriction for dogs, as many do. Nonetheless, for his board package, Mr. Lamond posed Noah in front of a large bureau and took his photo while standing on a table, so the dog would look smaller.)
“打开沙发床的话，这里就会很挤了。”拉蒙德说。他用维可牢尼龙褡裢，将拼贴托盘固定在咖啡桌上。这样，夜里避开桌子、跨过挪亚去洗手间时，就不会把它撞翻。他说：“要避免把狗狗吵起来，只有6英寸（约合15厘米）的空间。”（很多住宅楼对狗都有重量限制，但这栋楼没有。不过，在准备住宿申请表时，雷蒙德把挪亚放在一张大书桌前，然后自己站在另一张桌上为它拍照。这样狗狗就会显得小一些。）
Mr. Lamond found this apartment in 2010 by searching this newspaper’s Real Estate section for the cheapest Manhattan studio, he said. Listed at $225,000, it was part of Mrs. Henry Luce III’s estate, which included an enormous Sutton Place apartment around the corner.
拉蒙德说，这间公寓是他2010年时在报纸的地产版“寻找曼哈顿最便宜的工作室公寓”板块找到的。它标价22.5万美元（约合人民币136万元），属于亨利·卢斯三世夫人(Henry Luce III)遗产基金会。此外，街角的一套大型萨顿酒店公寓也是她的财产。
It had once been fitted out with library stacks, to store the overflow of Mrs. Luce’s collection of books (there were 10,000 in the estate, said Rick Patrick, her executor). Later, it had been used as an office. When it was listed by Ellen Kapit, a Sotheby’s broker, it had a wall of bookshelves, a “kitchen in a box,” and a queen-size mattress on the floor, Ms. Kapit said. Before Mr. Lamond saw it, Ms. Kapit added, “we had one guy who was interested but wasn’t sure about the space. We let him stay overnight on the mattress. It made sense at the time.”
这里曾是一个图书仓库，用来储存卢斯夫人多余的藏书（她的遗嘱执行人里克·帕特里克[Rick Patrick]说，那里原来有一万册书）。后来它变成了一间办公室。苏富比(Sotheby)地产公司的经纪人埃伦·加帛(Ellen Kapit)将它发布上市时，屋里还有一排书架、一个“便携式厨房”和一张大号双人床垫。在拉蒙德去看它之前，加帛还补充说：“我们有个客户对这套房有兴趣，但还不太确定它的空间是否够用。我们就让他在床垫上睡了一晚。那时候这么做还是有意义的。”
When Mr. Lamond saw the apartment, he offered $162,500. He spent another $70,000, he said, gutting the place to its brick walls and rebuilding it. The wallpaper is Ultrasuede; the ceiling is covered in handmade gold paper. Moldings are fat, layered and painted terra-cotta red.
看过公寓后，拉蒙德出价16.25万美元（约合人民币98万元）。他说，自己后来又花了7万美元（约合人民币42万元）敲掉砖墙重建。墙纸是Ultrasuede的；天花板上覆盖着手工金箔纸。吊顶线厚实且富有层次，被刷成了陶红色。
Mr. Lamond’s storage choices are counterintuitive: The closet is now a foot deeper and the bathroom door half a foot slimmer, so he could flank the window with bookshelves. And he designed the kitchen cabinets to be 30 inches deep.
拉蒙德在储物方面所做的选择出人预料：壁橱深了一英尺（约合30.48厘米），而浴室的门则窄了半英尺（约合15厘米）。这样他就可以在窗子两侧安放书架了。此外，他还设计了一个30英寸（约合75厘米）深的餐具柜。
“I can have a cocktail party for 20 or 30 people,” he said proudly, opening the cabinets to show off his glasses and dishware.
“我可以举办一场二、三十人的鸡尾酒会。”他一边骄傲地说着，一边打开餐具柜展示他的酒杯和餐具。
“The only problem with having the cabinets this deep and flush with the counter is I keep hitting my head,” he said. “Since I put the handles on, it’s worse. For years, I lived in a huge house. But it’s much more fun to be surrounded by the things you love, and you see them constantly. Not that I can add much more.”
“餐具柜这么深，且与柜台齐平，这么设计唯一问题就是，我老是撞到头，”他说，“装上把手以后更糟。很多年来，我都住在一栋大房子里。不过能置身于自己喜爱的东西当中，还是有趣多了。而且，你还能随时看到它们。至于别的，我也没法再添置了。”
Although he is still working six days a week, Mr. Lamond said he plans to retire here someday. “I could live here without ever going back to my home, which has a lot of wonderful things,” he said. “I would have no problem saying goodbye.”
尽管拉蒙德仍旧一周工作六天，但他说，他计划退休后就待在这里。“我可以一直都住在这里，不再回自己家去，”他说，“对我而言，做告别是不在话下的。”
It was Mr. Lamond’s cunning work that sold the identical studio below last year to Barbara Horowitz, 60, who is also a decorator (her company is BHS Designs), and who also once lived in a large and amply furnished house — hers was in Westchester. Bunny Williams, the decorator who memorialized her own farmhouse, chockablock with paisley-skirted tables, cachepots, obelisks, Regency chairs and gilded mirrors, in “An Affair With a House,” was an inspiration, Ms. Horowitz said. Since her divorce eight years ago, she has been paring down her belongings, editing and pruning in a series of moves.
去年（2012年——译注），拉蒙德的这处匠心设计促成了楼下那套相同公寓的出售。它被卖给了60岁的芭芭拉·霍罗威茨(Barbara Horowitz)，也是一名装饰设计师（供职于BHS设计公司），也曾住在韦斯特切斯特(Westchester)的一所家具齐全的大房子里。霍罗威茨说，《爱上一所房子》(An Affair with a House)给了她灵感。装饰设计师邦尼·威廉斯(Bunny Williams)为了纪念自己的农庄，在房间里塞满了佩斯利涡旋纹花呢边的桌子、装饰托盆、方尖碑、摄政时期风格的椅子和镀金的镜子。自八年前离婚以来，数次搬家已经让霍罗威茨缩减了很多东西。
She now has a beach house on the North Fork of Long Island and wanted what she called “a hotel room” in the city, “a wreck in a great area.” Apartment 4E was certainly a wreck (and mirrored, to boot). When Ms. Horowitz saw it, she gasped and told the broker, “I think I’m good, but I’m not this good.”
如今，她在长岛北福克(North Fork)有一栋海滨别墅，但很想在市里再买一套被她称为“宾馆房间”的公寓。或叫做“大城市里的陋居”。4E号公寓当然算得上陋居（不过，里面也是有镜子的）霍罗威茨一看到它就倒抽了一口凉气，对经纪人说：“我觉得自己还蛮有能力的，但我也收拾不了这堆烂摊子啊！”
Hang on, the broker said, and took her upstairs to Mr. Lamond’s place. “I was blown away,” Ms. Horowitz recalled, and bought her studio for $180,000. “The maintenance is $430,” she added. “Who could resist?”
等等，经纪人说着，将她带到楼上拉蒙德的住处。“我被镇住了。”霍罗威茨以18万美元（约合人民币108.9万元）买下了她的工作室公寓。她回忆说，“物业费是430美元（约合人民币2602元）。”她补充道，“谁能抗拒？”
Like Mr. Lamond, she had to gut the apartment. But her rehab is markedly different from her upstairs neighbor’s. Glamorous and minimal, it has eye-teasing contrasts, like a dark floor and light furniture, and highly reflective surfaces, including silver foil-backed grass cloth wallpaper and a shiny lacquer finish on the kitchen cabinets. “It gets the light bouncing off the walls,” Ms. Horowitz said. “I like the way we negotiate a space when contrasts are involved. You focus more on the contrasts, instead of, ‘Yikes, this is really small!’ ”
和拉蒙德一样，她也重新装修了公寓。不过她的装修风格与楼上的邻居迥然不同。这个小巧、迷人的房间对比强烈：深色地板配浅色家具，还有高反光的表面，包括银箔背衬的夏布(grass cloth)墙纸，和涂着闪亮表漆的餐具柜。“光线都能在墙上跳舞了，”霍罗威茨说，“我喜欢走在一个有对比的空间里。这样，你的注意力就会更多地放在那些对比效果上，而不会说‘呀，这里可真小！’”
The moldings are large, which adds architectural heft and is another eye-teaser, creating the illusion that the ceiling is higher.
吊顶线很宽，不仅增添了建筑的分量，也是另一个醒目之处，会给人一种其实天花板更高的错觉。
When the fabricators misread the dimensions of her kitchen, the built-ins came out seven inches short. It could have been a disaster, Ms. Horowitz said. Instead, she designed a shoe closet, a nifty sliding cabinet she demonstrated prettily. She keeps her “city” clothes here, and duplicates of her cosmetics.
装修工人错估了她厨房的面积，结果柜子短了7英寸（约合17.5厘米）。霍罗威茨说本来这是件糟糕透顶的事，不过她却设计出了一个精巧的可推拉式鞋柜。她的“城市”衣着和各种化妆品也放在这里。
Outside the one window, a shiny black window box is filled with fake boxwood. All in, she said, she spent about $60,000.
在唯一的那扇窗外，摆着一个亮闪闪的黑色窗栏花箱，里面装满了假黄杨木。她说，装修的总花销为6万美元（约合人民币36万元）。
“I love not being attached to so many things,” she said. “All that stuff, all the collecting. It’s wonderful and lovely while you’re nesting. This part of my life, I can say: ‘I am unattached. I am free.’ You take yourself with you, whether you are living in a big home in Westchester or a tiny studio.”
“我喜欢不受太多东西束缚的感觉，”她说，“所有的东西，所有的收藏。在有家的时候还是不错的；但对于目前的生活，我要说：‘我了无牵挂，我是自由的。’不论是住在韦斯特切斯特的大房子，还是这处工作室公寓，带上你自己就够了。”
That’s a point of view youthful studio diarists like Mr. Broyard and Ms. McKenney would recognize.
这，就是像拉蒙德和霍罗威茨一样的充满朝气的工作室式公寓居住者所推荐的生活态度。