A COCKTAIL party shouldn’t start with the first brandish of a shaker; it should start with a menu. Curating a short list of drinks, instead of casting around for something novel to mix with that gin, allows you to serve drinks that will please even your most discerning guests, and to be a more nimble host.
鸡尾酒派对的准备工作，不该从花式调酒炫技开始，而应该是酒单。列出一个简明的酒单而不要四处找一些新奇的材料混入金酒，这样你才能取悦最挑剔的客人，从而成为一个更聪明的主人。
Take inspiration from any bar that prides itself on its cocktails. Survey the back bar. What will stand out is a selection of what bartenders call modifiers: liqueurs, bitters, vermouths and fortified wines.
去那些鸡尾酒特别出名的酒吧找找灵感，研究一下他们的酒柜。最突出的那些被调酒师称为“改造者”的酒：例如利口酒（liqueurs）、苦味酒（ bitters,）、苦艾酒（ vermouths ）和加烈葡萄酒（ fortified wines）。
Tequila, whiskey and other 80-proof (or higher) dry spirits form the base of a cocktail — what chicken, beef or fish are to the omnivore’s dinner plate. Liqueurs and amari, from low-proof aperitifs like Aperol to full-strength digestives like Fernet Branca, are accents, the equivalent of flavorful sauces. Citrus, vermouth, fortified wine or a carbonated mixer like tonic water are sides rounding out the meal. Aromatic bitters, like Angostura or Peychaud’s, are the salt and pepper of a drink, integrating the mixture and accentuating flavors.
龙舌兰、威士忌或者是其他40度以上的烈酒是调酒的基酒，就像是鸡肉，牛肉或者鱼之于放好配菜的餐盘一样。利口酒和意大利草本力娇酒，从像阿佩罗（Aperol）这样的低度餐前酒，到菲奈特·布兰卡（Fernet Branca）这种高度餐后酒，属于风味一类，就像各种口味的酱汁。橘味利口酒、苦艾酒和加烈葡萄酒或者汤力水之类的碳酸饮料，则是主餐的配菜。安格斯图拉苦酒（Angostura）和新奥尔良贝娇丝苦酒（ Peychaud ）之类的芳香型苦酒，就像胡椒和盐，调和并增强味道。
Your success with home mixology will be defined as much by what you stock as how you use it. Most home bars contain a decent selection of base spirits and very few modifiers. A bucket of ice, a few limes and a minibar may look like a world of opportunities, but it’s not.
家庭调酒成功与否，取决于你存了什么酒以及怎么调。很多家庭酒吧都有不少很不错的基酒，但却只有少量的“改造者”。一桶冰块，几个青柠加一个小酒柜，看起来也许像是能调出各种鸡尾酒，但事实远非如此。
So instead of planning a party around what you have around the house, buy a modifier like orange Curaçao, Bénédictine, maraschino or Campari. You can make several different classic cocktails by pairing one of those with bitters, vermouth or a few items from the fruit stand. You’ll also build up your back bar, one bottle at a time.
与其根据你家里现有的酒来筹备一个酒会，不如买些像柑香酒 (orange Curaçao)、布兰比特酒(Bénédictine)、黑樱桃酒(maraschino )和金巴利（ Campari )开胃酒这样的“改造者”。通过把它们和苦味酒、苦艾酒或一些水果组合起来，你可以调出多种经典鸡尾酒。同时你也将会慢慢建立自己的酒柜。
Choose three recipes for your menu from the cocktail-recipe generator; plan on serving two drinks per person. The gin you received as a gift last December will probably be consumed by dinnertime. But the Campari you bought to prepare Jasmines will most likely attend your next party, alongside the tequila your neighbors brought over to salute your bartending prowess.
从“鸡尾酒配方生成器”中选三种，按每人两杯来准备。去年别人送你的那瓶金酒很可能在吃饭时就被喝光了，但是你为了调“茉莉花鸡尾酒”而买来的金巴利开胃酒多半还能赶得上明年的派对，一同出席的还会有你的邻居向你高超调酒技艺致敬送来的龙舌兰。
RECIPE
配方：
Jasmine.Adapted from Paul Harrington, Clover, Spokane, Wash.
怎样调制一杯茉莉花鸡尾酒？
INGREDIENTS
材料：
2 ounces gin
两盎司金酒
1 ounce Cointreau
一盎司君度橙味力娇酒
3/4 ounce lemon juice
3/4盎司柠檬汁
1/2 ounce Campari
1/2盎司金巴利开胃酒
Lemon wheel, for garnish.
用圆形柠檬片作点缀
PREPARATION
做法：
Shake all liquid ingredients with ice. Strain into a chilled coupe glass. Garnish with a lemon wheel.
把酒、柠檬汁和冰块放进摇酒器摇匀，倒入冷冻过的鸡尾酒杯，加柠檬片点缀即可。
YIELD 1 drink.
一杯量。