There was a time when Ming vases qualified as big-ticket Asian artifacts. But in Kevin Kwan’s “Crazy Rich Asians,” a dizzily shopaholic comedy of crass manners, the only Ming status symbols worth talking about are Leo Ming’s climate-controlled clothes closet where the shoes are kept 15 degrees warmer than the fur and cashmere, and Leo Ming’s private plane.
曾经有一个时期，明代花瓶是价格高昂的亚洲工艺收藏品。但在凯文·关(Kevin Kwan)的《疯狂的亚洲富人》(Crazy Rich Asians)这本令人眼花缭乱的购物狂喜剧小说里，唯一带有“明”标记值得一提的物品，是书中人物“里奥·明”(Leo Ming)的恒温衣柜，鞋柜温度要比皮草和羊绒的温度高15°，另外还有他的私人飞机。
“There’s even a Matisse in the cabin!” drools Eddie Cheng, who is boastfully borrowing the plane from his friend Leo. Eddie, named Edison by his seriously Anglophile and social-climbing Hong Kong family, would be the most money-mad character in Mr. Kwan’s story if “Crazy Rich Asians” were not full of them. But Eddie’s not the one who has given the names Astor, Trump and Vanderbilt to his dogs.
“机舱里还有马蒂斯的画！”艾迪·程(Eddie Cheng)直流口水，他从朋友里奥手中借来了这架飞机大肆炫耀。艾迪的大名是艾迪逊，出生在一个极度亲英、一心结交权贵往上爬的香港家庭，他和家人一点也不像，是关先生的《疯狂的亚洲富人》小说中最拜金的角色。但艾迪还不是那个会用阿斯特(Astor)、特朗普(Trump)和范德堡(Vanderbilt)这些大亨们的名字给自己的狗命名的人。
“Crazy Rich Asians” offers refreshing nouveau voyeurism to readers who long ago burned out on American and English aspirational fantasies. Mr. Kwan either knows, or does a good job of pretending to know, how the very rich of Singapore, Hong Kong and Shanghai show off their lucre. Since he is not spoilsport enough to bring moralizing into such a story, readers never need worry how the king of Thailand gave two live human beings, trained as lady’s maids, to the richest old Singaporean granny in the book.
《疯狂的亚洲富人》为那些早就厌倦了英美野心神话的读者，打开了一扇崭新而且新奇的偷窥窗口。作者关先生很了解，或者成功地装作很了解那些新加坡、香港和上海的富豪们怎样炫富。他不愿意扫兴地在这样一个故事中加入道德说教，读者也不需要去操心书中的泰国国王是怎样把两个训练成女仆的大活人赠送给新加坡最富有的老奶奶的。
“Crazy Rich Asians” first flaunts its peacock feathers in a prologue set in London in 1986. Shabby-looking members of the Young family are treated rudely in an elite hotel. They promptly pull strings and buy the place, which may mean that the Dowager Marchioness of Uckfield, then in residence, may have to find somewhere else to stay in the future.
《疯狂的亚洲富人》先是在序言中炫耀其华丽的孔雀羽毛，时间和地点是在1986年的伦敦。杨一家人穿得邋里邋遢，受到高级酒店的粗鲁对待。他们马上动用影响力，把这个地方买了下来，这意味着住在这里的阿克菲尔德侯爵夫人可能得另觅他处了。
Flash forward to 2010, when one of the Young boys, Nicholas, has grown up to have “perfectly tousled black hair, chiseled Cantonese pop-idol features, and impossibly thick eyelashes.” He also has a career as an academic in the United States and a girlfriend named Rachel Chu.
故事进到2010年，杨家的一个男孩尼古拉斯已经长大成人，有着“一头完美的蓬松黑发，长得好像广东人的流行偶像，面部轮廓分明，睫毛十分浓密”。他已在美国开始了自己的学术生涯，有个女朋友名叫蕾切尔·朱(Rachel Chu)。
Rachel is what is called an “ABC” (American-Born Chinese), and she is too innocent to have wondered much about Nick’s family. The plot of the book basically describes how Nick brings Rachel to Singapore to show her how eye-poppingly loaded and snobbish his relatives are. “Everyone will adore you, Rachel,” Nick promises. “I just know it.” This turns out to be hilarious, under the circumstances.
蕾切尔是所谓的“ABC”，也就是在美国出生的中国人，她太天真，根本没怎么去想尼克家族的事。这本书的线索主要是描述尼克怎样把蕾切尔带到新加坡，向她展示亲戚们那惊人的富有和谄媚。“所有人都会喜欢你的，蕾切尔，”尼克保证，“我就是知道。”这句承诺在这种情况下，后来变得很欢乐。
Rachel’s naïveté gives “Crazy Rich Asians” an excuse to explain all things Asian and expensive to the touristy reader. And Mr. Kwan neither has nor wants a light touch. About the wedding of Nick’s fashion-plate sister, Astrid, he writes that “there were anonymous reports that Sir Paul McCartney flew in to serenade the bride at a ceremony that was ‘exquisite beyond belief.’ ” Another character, Araminta, has a mother known as “the luxury hotel queen” and is referred to in Singapore as “our most celebrated fashion icon,” even though her mainland Chinese heritage is held against her.
蕾切尔的天真幼稚给了《疯狂的亚洲富人》一个借口，像对待观光客一样，给读者解释亚洲的一切，乃至奢侈品的一切。关先生没有，也不想轻描淡写。尼克的时髦姐姐阿斯特丽德结婚了，他描写她的婚礼是“有小道消息说保罗·麦卡特尼爵士(Sir Paul McCartney)专门飞过来，在一场仪式上为新娘献上小夜曲，‘动听得令人难以置信’。”还有一个叫埃拉敏塔(Araminta)的角色，他的母亲是“豪华酒店女王”，在新加坡被称为“我们最著名的时尚偶像”，虽然她的中国大陆背景也常被人用来说事儿。
There’s also a family friend who supposedly “flies all her saris back to New Delhi to be specially cleaned,” and another who “looks like a Chinese Catherine Deneuve, only more beautiful.” This book name-drops about many different Asian cultures and mixes rude slang from Malay and the Cantonese and Hokkien dialects of Chinese. It also sniffs at American culture (Stanford: “It’s that school in California for people who can’t get into Harvard”) and wears its prejudices on its designer sleeve (“Mark’s not white, he’s Jewish — that’s basically Asian.”). Words like Chuppie, for Chinese Yuppie, may be offensive, but Mr. Kwan makes the most of them.
这家人的一个朋友，会“把她所有的纱丽空运到新德里去做特别清洗”；还有一个人“有点像中国版的凯瑟琳·德纳芙(Catherine Deneuve)，只是更漂亮”。这本书指名道姓地提到了许多亚洲文化名人，加入了很多马来语和中国广东、闽南方言里的粗话。它还嘲笑了美国文化（斯坦福“就是那个加利福尼亚的学校，专门给进不了哈佛的人上的”），并带有自己的歧视偏见（“马克不是白人，他是犹太人——基本上就和亚洲人没两样”）。还有用“Chuppie”来称呼中国的雅皮，这些称谓都很冒犯人，但关先生极好地利用了这些东西。
Almost no material object appears in “Crazy Rich Asians” without an announcement of its brand name. And one of the strangest things about this book is how insecure its Asian residents seem to be. Sure, shoe designers have their place in American beach reading, but Mr. Kwan works them into dialogue, not descriptions. So we get: “Parker, put down those Pierre Hardy flats or I’ll poke your eyes out with these Nicholas Kirkwood stilettos.” And: “I wouldn’t have worn my new Roger Vivier heels if I knew we were coming to a place like this.” And, from a man unhappy with his suite at the Wynn Macau: “I’m not going to dirty my Tod’s setting foot in one of those rat holes!”There’s even a poor little rich kid who, when told to wear his Gucci loafers, asks plaintively: “Which ones?”
《疯狂的亚洲富人》这本书里出现的几乎所有东西都有品牌名字。最奇怪的事情就是，里面的亚洲人都十分缺乏安全感。是的，美国的海滩上会出现大量名牌鞋子，但是关先生的小说里把它们融进对话。所以就有了下面这样的句子：“帕克，把这些皮埃尔·哈迪(Pierre Hardy)的平底鞋放下，要不我就用尼古拉斯·柯克伍德(Nicholas Kirkwood)的高跟鞋把你眼睛戳瞎。”或者“早知道我们要来这种地方，我就不穿我的新罗杰·维威耶(Roger Vivier)高跟鞋了。”一个男人不满意澳门永利酒店的套间，他说：“我可不愿在这些老鼠洞里弄脏我穿着托德斯(Tod’s)皮鞋的脚！”甚至还有一个可怜的富家小孩，别人让他穿上古驰(Gucci)便鞋，他淡淡地问：“哪一双？”
Obviously, the romance of Nick and Rachel is only ancillary to the real (and really crazy) concerns of “Crazy Rich Asians.” All Rachel has to do is ignore the hostility of her likely future relatives, see Nick for the nice guy he truly is and admire the excess without wondering why everyone seems so pitifully materialistic and insecure. She hits the right note as soon as she gets to the airport in Singapore and remarks that it “makes JFK look like Mogadishu.” This book is neither malicious nor imaginative enough to make Rachel a gold digger or Nick a cad. So its main objective is to provide a grand tour of a humorously grandiose and showoffy world.
显然，尼克与蕾切尔的恋情对于《疯狂的亚洲富人》的真正主题（而且是真正疯狂的主题）来说只是起辅助作用。蕾切尔要做的只是无视那些可能的未来亲戚们的敌意；看到尼克本性中善良的一面；赞赏奢华，而不去思考为什么所有人都是可悲的拜金主义者，都缺乏安全感。她刚到新加坡机场时，说它“让肯尼迪机场显得好像摩加迪沙一样”，从这一刻起，她的基调就已经定下了。这本书并没有恶毒地，或是充满想象力地把蕾切尔描述成掘金女，把尼克描述成无赖。所以小说的主题只是带领观众到一个浮夸可笑，喜欢炫富的世界做一场豪华游。
Mr. Kwan knows how to deliver guilty pleasures. He keeps the repartee nicely outrageous, the excess wretched and the details wickedly delectable. Who knew that an Asian menu might boast of “Giant South Sea Scallop Consommé With Washington State Ginseng Vapors and Black Mushrooms?” (“Go figure,” writes Mr. Kwan, in a footnote about why the ginseng is imported.) Who knew that an Asian socialite might include Save the Shahtoosh among her favored fashionable causes?
关先生知道该怎样展示充满罪恶感的快乐。他把精彩的对话写得十分夸张，让奢华的场面十分恶劣，也让细节显得顽皮可爱。看到一份亚洲菜单上写着“巨型南海扇贝配华盛顿人参露与黑菌”，谁知道这是什么东西？（“自己去发现吧”，关先生在脚注里这样解释人参为何是进口的）。谁知道一个亚洲社交人士会把“拯救藏羚羊”行动纳入自己最喜欢的时尚活动？
And who knew that a Far Eastern fashion disaster might be described in such novel terms. “Never, ever wear green chiffon,” Mr. Kwan has one character warn, “unless you want to look like bok choy” that’s been violently abused.
谁又知道，一场远东时尚灾难会在小说里这样被描述：“永远永远不要穿绿色雪纺，”关先生让一个人物这样警告，“要不你就会显得像颗大白菜”，这可是种极为严苛的诅咒。