Pity the poor billionaires who are about to take the oath of office. For them, everything is going to change.
同情那些即将宣誓就职的亿万富翁吧。对可怜的他们来说，一切都会改变。
In winning the presidency, Donald J. Trump proposed a grand hypothesis: that the federal government can be managed like a business. “If we could run our country the way I’ve run my company, we would have a country that you would be so proud of,” he told voters in the final presidential debate. It’s a theory that has been suggested, to various degrees, by almost every president in the last century, from Calvin Coolidge to Barack Obama.
在赢得总统选举的过程中，唐纳德·J·特朗普提出了一个宏大的假设：可以像管理企业一样管理联邦政府。“如果我们能像我管理公司那样管理我们的国家，就会拥有一个你们深感自豪的国家，”他在最后一场总统辩论中对选民说。在过去一个世纪里，几乎每一位总统，从卡尔文·柯立芝(Calvin Coolidge)到贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)，都不同程度地提出过这个理论。
What’s different this time is the vigorousness of the experiment. With his inauguration on Friday, and a cabinet that is likely to include three billionaires, five former chief executives and some of the business world’s most accomplished leaders, Mr. Trump is poised to test, perhaps once and for all, if good governance and crafty deal making are really similar skills.
这一次的不同之处在于这个实验的力度。特朗普的就职仪式已于周五举行，他领导的内阁可能包括三名亿万富翁、五名前首席执行官和商界成就最高的一些领袖。他准备进行检验，以确定优秀的治国才能和精明的交易技巧是否类似。这或许将一举就这个问题给出最终答案。
But, as anyone who has spent time in a laboratory can attest, experiments are messy. Separating the signals from the noise takes diligence. And in this case, so much will depend on the savviness of those woeful billionaires who had it so good, and now will be guinea pigs thrust into a maze that has overwhelmed so many test subjects before them.
但在实验室待过的所有人都可以证明，做实验是个麻烦事，需要努力区分信号和噪声。而在这件事情上，很多方面都将取决于那些可怜的亿万富翁的机智。他们曾经活得安逸舒适，现在却要被当成小白鼠，扔进一座打败了之前很多实验对象的迷宫。
“Running an agency is very, very different from running a company,” said Carlos M. Gutierrez, who was commerce secretary under George W. Bush after serving as chief executive of Kellogg’s. “Some of the skills do transfer, but you have to be careful figuring out which ones. In government, you can’t fire anyone. Your board of directors is 535 people in Congress, and half of them want to see you fail.”
“管理一个机构和管理一家公司有着非常非常大的不同，”卡洛斯·M·古铁雷斯(Carlos M. Gutierrez)说，他在结束家乐氏(Kellogg’s)首席执行官任期后，于乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)任内担任商务部长。“一些技巧的确是相通的，但你得小心谨慎地找出是哪些。在政府里，你不能开除任何人。你的董事会就是国会里的那535个人，他们中有一半想看到你失败。”
One of the first challenges will be figuring out what “business leadership” means when so many of capitalism’s tools — firing misbehaving employees; giving raises to those who overperform — aren’t allowed by federal rules. “C.E.O.s who come in saying, ‘I’m going to show everyone how it’s done,’ are the ones most likely to fail,” Mr. Gutierrez said.
首要的挑战之一，就是在联邦条例不允许使用资本主义的很多工具，如开除行为不端的员工和奖励表现卓越的员工时，弄清楚“商业领导力”的含义。“走进来说‘我让你们看看该怎么做’的首席执行官，极有可能失败，”古铁雷斯说。
One problem has always been that while the business world rewards leaders for an intense focus on a singular goal — maximizing profits as efficiently as possible — government yearns for the opposite: pleasing the largest number of people with methods that offend the fewest. And while competition is usually a good thing within business, inside government, it’s often more corrosive, as the partisanship of the past decade demonstrates.
一直以来的一个问题是，商界会因为商业领袖高度关注一个单一的目标——尽可能高效地实现利润最大化——而奖赏他们，但政府追求的却恰恰相反：用触怒最少的人的方式取悦最多的人。并且，尽管在商界竞争通常是好事，但在政府内部，就像过去十年里的党派纷争所表明的那样，竞争通常更具腐蚀性。
“You succeed in Washington by collaborating,” said Henry M. Paulson Jr., who was widely lauded as Treasury secretary for Mr. Bush and, before that, as chief executive of Goldman Sachs.
“在华盛顿要靠合作才能取得成功，”在担任布什政府财政部长期间广受称赞的小亨利·M·保尔森(Henry M. Paulson Jr.)说。在那之前，他是高盛(Goldman Sachs)的首席执行官。
Businesspeople tend to see competition as a means to find the best solutions, a sorting device that pushes the smartest ideas ahead. But many of the trickiest government issues, like immigration or tax reform, involve dozens of agencies, as well as lawmakers and lobbyists, who must be persuaded to cooperate. Intelligence in government is almost always a humble, group activity.
商人往往认为竞争是找到最佳解决办法的途径，是一种挑选手段，能够推行最聪明的想法。但很多最棘手的政府问题，如移民或税收改革，涉及数十个机构，以及众多议员和说客。必须说服他们同意合作才行。在政府里，聪明的工作形式几乎永远都是一种谦逊的集体活动。
“You can’t just think about your own agency, or your own goals,” Mr. Paulson said. “You have to please both sides of the aisle, while making sure you’re not outshining other officials, and persuading employees who don’t have to obey your orders. And you have to adjust to having a boss, the president, instead of being the boss. It takes a lot of humility.”
“不能只考虑你自己的机构或你自己的目标，”保尔森说。“你得让对立的双方都满意，同时确保自己没有把其他官员比下去，并要说服不一定要服从你的命令的员工。你还得适应上面有老板，即总统，而不是自己当老板这一点。这需要十分谦逊。”
Some of Mr. Trump’s picks might have an easier time making the transition than others. Rex W. Tillerson, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil and the choice for secretary of state, is among the nominees who have spent their careers involved in the day-to-day operations of complicated firms that span continents.
特朗普挑选的人中，一些人的身份转换可能会比其他人更容易。包括前埃克森美孚(Exxon Mobil)首席执行官、国务卿人选雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)在内的相关提名人选的职业生涯，就涉及跨越多个大陆的复杂公司的日常运营。
“Tillerson has basically been a politician for the last 20 years; he’s just been doing it for the nation of Exxon,” said Paul H. O’Neill, who became Treasury secretary during Mr. Bush’s first term after leading the aluminum company Alcoa. “He’s negotiated with foreign governments, he’s had more than 80,000 employees. You don’t run a company that size by telling people what to do. You learn how to persuade them to follow your vision, to accommodate all kinds of different agendas and personalities.”
“过去20年，蒂勒森本质上是一个政客，他的服务对象是埃克森这个国家，”在布什的第一届任期内担任财政部长的保罗·H·奥尼尔(Paul H. O’Neill)说。在那之前，他是美国铝业(Alcoa)的掌舵人。“他和外国政府谈判，有八万多名员工。管理那种规模的公司靠的不是命令人们做什么。你要学会如何说服他们去追随你的愿景，去适应各种不同的算计和个性。”
Other cabinet secretaries have spent their careers mostly as investors, not as direct managers. Hedge fund and private equity professionals like Steven T. Mnuchin, likely to be the next Treasury secretary; Betsy DeVos, who has been tapped as education secretary; and Wilbur L. Ross, the expected commerce secretary, have largely devoted their lives to buying and selling companies. And so there are questions about how well they will make the shift to jobs that demand a day-to-day focus on the smallest details of governance.
其他内阁部长从前的职业主要是投资人，而不是直接的管理者。对冲基金和私募股权基金行家，如可能会成为下一任财长的史蒂文·努钦(Steven Mnuchin)、被提名为教育部长的贝茜·德沃斯(Betsy DeVos)和预计会担任商务部长的威尔伯·L·罗斯(Wilbur L. Ross)，主要是专注于买进和卖出公司。因此，有人怀疑他们对要求把每天的重点放在微不足道的治理细节上的工作的适应情况。
Mr. Ross, whose confirmation hearing was held on Wednesday, presents a fascinating test subject. As an acquirer of steel mills, coal mines and other heavy industries, he has amassed a personal fortune worth billions. “Over the years, I’ve had businesses that actually operated in some 23 countries,” Mr. Ross said at the hearing. “We have been on the ground in all of the major trading partners of this country.”
在周三的提名确认听证会上，罗斯成了一个有趣的实验对象。收购过钢厂、煤矿和其他重工业企业的他积累了价值数十亿的个人财富。“这么多年来，我的企业在大约23个国家开展业务，”罗斯在听证会上说。“我们的足迹遍布这个国家所有主要的贸易伙伴。”
Usually, when Mr. Ross buys a new company, he follows a pretty successful script: He shows up, says a few words and then hands operations to professional managers who know how to run things — and who know he will fire them if they fail.
通常，当罗斯收购一家新公司时，他会遵循一个非常成功的流程：他出面说几句话，然后就把业务交给职业经理人。他们知道怎么经营，也知道如果失败自己就会被罗斯炒鱿鱼。
However, when Mr. Ross takes the oath of office, that script will change. He will be whisked off to the executive wing of the Commerce Department and walked past long rows of barren offices. (The furniture of political appointees is removed during each presidential transition, and — spoiler alert — it often takes weeks for new desks and bookcases to arrive.) If he can find enough chairs, he might call a meeting of the few employees milling around (his deputies and key department heads need senatorial approval, which might take a few months). He will be handed dozens of binders explaining how his department does everything from monitor weather satellites to administer patents, and admonished to study up. (Congress loves humiliating cabinet members who haven’t done their homework, and explaining that you are an excellent delegator, alas, fails to impress on Capitol Hill.)
然而，罗斯宣誓就职后，流程会有所变化。他会被匆匆带到商务部的行政楼，走过长长的一排又一排空旷的办公室。（每次总统权力交接期间，政治任命官员的家具都会被搬走，并且剧透一下，新的桌子和书架通常要数周后才能送达。）如果能找到足够的椅子，他也许会把为数不多的走来走去的工作人员叫到一起开个会（他的副手和主要部门负责人需要得到参议院的批准，这可能需要几个月的时间）。他会拿到几十个活页夹，它们解释了他领导的这个部门的所有任务，从监测气象卫星到管理专利。还会有人告诫他努力钻研。（国会喜欢羞辱没做必要的准备工作的内阁成员。去解释说你很善于分派工作，可不会在国会山引来赞誉。）
If Mr. Ross hopes to fly to one of the department’s satellite offices, he will have to decide if he wants to complete the reams of paperwork needed to use his own jet, or go coach, as secretaries in previous administrations were encouraged. “Perception matters a lot in Washington,” said Karen G. Mills, who always flew in the cheap seats as administrator of the Small Business Administration after a career in finance left her with more than $40 million. “I did, however, try to avoid the middle seat.”
如果罗斯想飞去商务部的某个卫星办公室，他将不得不决定是填写使用自己的飞机所需的大量文件，还是像之前的政府部长被鼓励的那样，坐经济舱。“在华盛顿，印象很重要，”担任小企业管理局(Small Business Administration)局长期间总是购买廉价机票的卡伦·米尔斯(Karen Mills)说。在那之前，金融领域的职业经历为她带来了超过4000万美元（约合2.7亿元人民币）的财富。“不过，我的确会努力避免中间的座位。”
If Mr. Ross is lucky, by the end of his first day, someone will have shown him where the bathrooms are. There’s a risk, however, that the agency’s permanent staff’s “No. 1 goal will be to find ways to sabotage each new cabinet secretary as soon as they walk through the door,” said Newt Gingrich, a former House speaker who was a campaign adviser to Mr. Trump. “All those bureaucrats overwhelmingly voted for Clinton. There won’t be any real cooperation until we change federal law so we can fire them.”
如果罗斯运气好，到第一天结束的时候，有人已经告诉他洗手间在哪了。然而，有一个风险是，商务部固定工作人员的“头号目标是每一位新任内阁部长一进门，就想办法故意和他们作对”，曾任特朗普竞选顾问的前众议院议长纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)说。“所有那些官员中投票支持克林顿的占多数。不会有任何真正的合作，除非修改联邦法律，以便我们能解雇他们。”
Worst of all, though, is that at the end of his tenure, no matter how hard Mr. Ross works or how much he sacrifices, a large part of his success — as well as that of the other secretaries and this experiment as a whole — will be outside his control. Ultimately, the most important variable in testing this hypothesis will be Mr. Trump himself. What kind of management style will he adopt? Will he be an operator or a delegator? Will he change as president, or simply relocate and remain C.E.O. in chief?
但最糟糕的是，在任期结束时，不管他工作得多么努力，做出了多少牺牲，他以及其他部长和整个实验的成功在很大程度上不在他的控制范围内。最终，验证这个假设时最重要的变量将是特朗普自己。他将采取哪种管理风格？他会事必躬亲还是让手下独当一面？当了总统后他会改变吗，还是只是换个地方接着当总首席执行官？
How a president behaves filters into the cabinet, and senior officials, no matter how talented or powerful they once were, become an appendage of their new boss — a hard demotion for any former master of the universe. If Mr. Trump can’t manage the presidency, then no one working for him is likely to succeed. And vice versa.
总统的表现会慢慢影响到内阁，高级官员不管曾经多么才华横溢，多么权大势大，都会成为新老板的附属品。对任何一个曾是“宇宙主宰”的人来说，这都是一种难以接受的降职。如果特朗普当不好总统，那么为他工作的人也不太可能取得成功。反之亦然。
So as this experiment unfolds before a captivated nation, pity Mr. Ross and all the poor billionaires. They are sacrificing themselves so that all of us might learn. And, in case they are wondering: The bathrooms are down the hall and around the corner. You’re responsible for replacing the toilet paper if you’ve used the last of the roll.
因此，当这场实验在聚精会神地观看的全国民众面前展开时，我真同情罗斯和所有那些可怜的亿万富翁。他们是在牺牲自己，这样我们所有人也许才能得到答案。对了，如果有人想知道的话：洗手间在大厅里的拐角处。如果用完了最后一卷手纸，你得负责换上新的。