OGRABRAJ, India — The police on South Andaman Island know what to do when members of the isolated Jarawa tribe venture into the villages that surround them, hoping to snatch rice and other prized goods, like cookies, bananas or, for some reason, red garments.
印度奥格拉布拉杰——如果与世隔绝的加洛瓦(Jarawa)部落成员冒险进入围在他们四周的村庄，希望抢到大米及他们珍爱的其他物品，如饼干、香蕉或者——令人费解的——红色衣物时，南安达曼岛上的警察知道该怎么做。
The policy is to send the Jarawas back into the 300 square miles of forest that has been set aside for the tribe, where they are expected to survive by hunting and gathering, as they have for millenniums. Inspector Rizwan Hassan, whose precinct includes a “buffer zone” beside the tribe's reserve, is under clear orders: to interfere as little as possible in the traditional life of the tribe, which India prizes as the last remnant of a Paleolithic-era civilization.
他们的政策是把那些加洛瓦人送回那片300平方英里的森林。外界估计，在为该部落留出的那片森林里，加洛瓦人保留着数千年来的传统，以狩猎和采集为生。印度很重视加洛瓦部落，视其为旧石器时代文明的最后痕迹。在该部落的保护区旁边有一个“缓冲区”，是里兹万·哈桑(Rizwan Hassan)巡官的辖区之一。他接到的命令很明确：尽可能少干涉部落的传统生活。
This did not prepare him for the criminal complaint that was registered at his station in November. A 5-month-old baby was dead, and witnesses came forward willingly, leaving the police, for the first time in history, confronting the prospect of arresting a Jarawa on suspicion of murder.
但去年11月他的警局接到的一起报案还是让他不知所措。一个五个月大的婴儿去世，多名目击者自愿站了出来。这使警方有史以来首次要面对这样一个局面——以涉嫌杀人为名逮捕一名加洛瓦人。
The Jarawas, whom one geneticist described as “arguably the most enigmatic people on our planet,” are believed to have migrated from Africa around 50,000 years ago. They are very dark-skinned, small in stature and until 1998 lived in complete cultural isolation, shooting outsiders with steel-tipped arrows if they came too near.
加洛瓦人据信是在大约5万年前从非洲迁徙至当地的。一位遗传学家曾表示，加洛瓦人“可以说是地球上最神秘的人”。他们的肤色非常深，身材矮小。在1998年之前，他们过着文化上完全隔绝的生活。外来者靠得太近时，他们会向对方射钢头箭。
After the tribe made peace with its neighbors, India took steps to minimize contact between the Jarawas and the world that surrounds them, hoping to avoid the catastrophes that befell aboriginal people in other countries, like the United States and Australia, when settlers passed on germs and alcohol.
在该部落与周围的邻居和平共处后，印度采取多项措施，把加洛瓦人与周围世界的接触降到最低，希望以此避免发生在其他国家的土著居民身上的灾难。比如在美国和澳大利亚，外来者将病菌和酒精传给了土著居民。
Nevertheless, contact is occurring. Outreach workers visit the tribe's camps, and Jarawas receive medical treatment in isolation wards at hospitals. Poachers strike up illicit relationships with members of the tribe, trading food for help in harvesting crabs or fish.
然而，接触还是在发生。志愿者会去该部落的营地，加洛瓦人会在医院的隔离病房接受治疗。部落成员与从事非法捕捞的人狼狈为奸，通过协助他们捕捞螃蟹或鱼来换取食物。
It is as a result of such an encounter, the police believe, that a baby boy with a lighter skin color than usual was born to an unmarried Jarawa woman last spring, evidence that alien genes had found their way into an undiluted pool.
警方认为，正是这样的接触导致去年春天一名未婚加洛瓦女子生下了一个肤色比常人浅的男婴。这件事证明这个部落的纯正血统里已经掺入了外来基因。
Concern for a Baby
对一个婴儿的关切
Among the first to be alerted about the birth of a mixed-race baby was M. Janagi Savuriyammal, a 24-year-old tribal welfare officer whose office sits beside a crocodile-infested creek at the edge of the tribe's reserve.
M·贾娜吉·萨乌瑞亚玛尔(M. Janagi Savuriyammal)是最早发觉这个混血婴儿出生的人之一。这名24岁的部落福利干事的办公地点，就位于该部落保护区边缘地带一条有鳄鱼出没的小溪旁。
It is no secret that the tribe has, in the past, carried out ritual killings of infants born to widows or — much rarer — fathered by outsiders. Dr. Ratan Chandra Kar, a government physician who wrote a memoir about his work with the Jarawas, described a tradition in which newborn babies were breast-fed by each of the tribe's lactating women before being strangled by one of the tribal elders, so as to maintain “the so-called purity and sanctity of the society.”
这个部落过去曾经杀害寡妇生的婴儿，或更为罕见的、父亲是外来者的婴儿，进行献祭。这已经不是什么秘密。政府委派的内科医生拉坦·钱德拉·卡尔(Ratan Chandra Kar)撰写过一部回忆录，记叙他在加洛瓦的工作经历。他在书中描述了一种部落传统，即让部落里的哺乳期妇女依次给这类新生儿喂奶，之后再由一名部落长老将其勒死，以维持“这个社群所谓的纯正和神圣”。
He said he was aware of at least seven such cases in his 12-year tenure. The faces of the children haunted him, he wrote in his book, but he added that he was “never ready to interfere in the customs and rituals of the tribe.”
他表示，在12年的任期里，他至少知道七次这样的事。他在书中写到，那些婴儿的脸经常会浮现在他的眼前，但他也表示，自己“从没想过要干涉这些部落习俗和仪式”。
Savuriyammal took a different view. When she learned that some members of the tribe “did not want the baby to grow up,” as she put it, she and her staff began a campaign of persuasion, presenting arguments against killing the child and, at one point, posting a social worker near the camp to watch over him.
萨乌瑞亚玛尔的想法不一样。当她知道一些部落成员，用她的原话讲，“不想让这个婴儿长大”时，她就和手下的职员开始进行劝说行动，向部落人讲不该杀这个孩子的理由，还一度派了一名社会工作者在部落营地附近守护。
She was not the only one who felt the child was in danger. Rooby Thomas, who oversees care of Jarawa patients at a hospital near the reserve, saw the baby when his mother brought him in for a checkup and was so alarmed when she saw his skin tone that she set up a screen to hide him.
她不是唯一一个觉得这个孩子面临危险的人。罗比·托马斯(Rooby Thomas)在位于保护区附近的一家医院工作，负责给加洛瓦部落的病人看病。在那个婴儿的母亲带他来做体检时，她见到过他。在看到他那与众不同的肤色时，她非常担心，赶快搭起一个幕帘，把他隐藏起来。
“I isolated that baby from the other Jarawa,” she said. “I heard they usually kill non-Jarawas.”
“我把那个婴儿和其他加洛瓦人隔开，”她说。“我听说他们通常会把非加洛瓦部落的后代杀死。”
Five months had passed when Savuriyammal received an alarmed call from a member of her agency's field staff. She rushed to the camp to find the baby missing and his mother crying silently.
五个月后，萨乌瑞亚玛尔接到她所在的部落福利办公室一名外勤人员打来的警报电话。她连忙冲到部落营地里，发现那名婴儿已经不见了，她的母亲正在沉默地哭泣。
Two witnesses, both women, told the police that on the previous night they had seen a Jarawa man, Tatehane, drinking liquor with an outsider who had entered the reserve illegally.
两名女性目击者告诉警方，在前一天晚上，她们看到加洛瓦男子塔特阿纳(Tatehane)和一名非法进入保护区的外来者在一起喝酒。
Tatehane then slipped into the mother's hut and took the baby from her side before she awoke, a local newspaper reported, citing the two witnesses. The witnesses later found the baby's body on the sand, drowned.
据一家当地报纸报道，之后塔特阿纳溜进了那名母亲的小木屋，趁她没有醒来，抱走了她身边的婴儿。后来，这两名目击者在沙滩上发现了那名男婴的尸体，他已经被淹死了。
Savuriyammal filed a criminal complaint with the police, but they were in unknown territory: In 200 years of fatal clashes between tribesmen and British and Indian settlers, no member of the tribe had ever been named as a suspect in a crime.
萨乌瑞亚玛尔向警方提起了刑事申诉，但他们进入的是一个未知的领域：在部落人和英国、印度定居者之间延续两百年的流血冲突中，没有任何一个部落成员曾被指控为案件中的犯罪嫌疑人。
The authorities arrested the two nontribal men identified in the criminal complaint: a 25-year-old believed to have fathered the child, who was accused of rape, and a man who gave Tatehane liquor and was accused of abetting murder and interfering with aboriginal tribes.
当局逮捕了与这起案件有关的两名部落外男子：一名25岁的男性据信是这个婴儿的父亲，他被控强奸；另一名给塔特阿纳提供烈酒的男性，被控挑唆谋杀和扰乱土著部落。