Modern mothers love to debate how long to breast-feed, a topic that stirs both guilt and pride. Now — in a very preliminary finding — the Neanderthals are weighing in.
现代母亲喜爱探讨母乳喂养该持续多久这个能同时激起内疚和骄傲的话题。目前在一项非常初步的研究结果中，尼安德特人(Neanderthal)正被卷进这一话题。
By looking at barium levels in the fossilized molar of a Neanderthal child, researchers concluded that the child had been breast-fed exclusively for the first seven months, followed by seven months of mother’s milk supplemented by other food. Then the barium pattern in the tooth enamel “returned to baseline prenatal levels, indicating an abrupt cessation of breast-feeding at 1.2 years of age,” the scientists reported on Wednesday in the journal Nature.
通过分析一名尼安德特儿童臼齿化石中的钡含量，研究者们得出一个结论，这名儿童在最初7个月里是纯母乳喂养的，接下来的7个月是在母乳之外辅以其他食物。科学家们周三在《自然》期刊(Nature)的网站上报告说，随后牙釉质中钡的含量分布“回到了产前的基础水平，显示出母乳喂养在1.2岁时突然停止。”
While that timetable conforms with the current recommendations of the American Academy of Pediatrics — which suggests that mothers exclusively breast-feed babies for six months and continue for 12 months if possible — it represents a much shorter span of breast-feeding than practiced by apes or a vast majority of modern humans. The average age of weaning in nonindustrial populations is about 2.5 years; in chimpanzees in the wild, it is about 5.3 years. Of course, living conditions were much different for our evolutionary cousins, the Neanderthals, extinct for the last 30,000 years.
这个时间表符合美国儿科医学会(American Academy of Pediatrics)的建议，即母亲应对儿童进行6个月的母乳喂养，如果可能的话应持续到12个月，这比猿类和大多数现代人类的母乳喂养时间跨度都短。工业革命前人口断奶的平均年龄约2.5岁；而野生黑猩猩是5.3岁。当然，我们在演化上的表亲尼安德特人所处的生活环境截然不同，他们已经灭绝了3万年。
The findings, which drew strong skepticism from some scientists, were meant to highlight a method of linking barium levels in teeth to dietary changes. In the Nature report, researchers from the United States and Australia described tests among human infants and captive macaques showing that traces of the element barium in tooth enamel appeared to accurately reflect transitions from mother’s milk through weaning. The barium levels rose during breast-feeding and fell off sharply on weaning.
这些研究结果是要强调牙齿中的钡含量与饮食变化之间的关联，这引起了一些科学家的强烈质疑。在《自然》的报告中，来自美国和澳大利亚的研究者描述了对人类婴儿和圈养猕猴进行的测试，这些测试显示出牙釉质中的钡元素似乎能够准确地反映出母乳喂养中断的饮食转变。钡元素的水平会在母乳喂养期间上升，并在断奶后急剧下滑。
The researchers then decided to apply the barium test to the fossilized molar of a Neanderthal child, collected in Belgium. The tooth’s fossilization, the researchers discovered, had not destroyed the barium biomarker, as had been feared.
研究者们随后决定把钡测试应用到在比利时收集到的尼安德特儿童的臼齿化石上。研究者们发现，与他们担心的不同，这枚牙齿的化石化并未破坏钡元素生物标记。
This is the first documentation of diet transitions in a juvenile Neanderthal, the researchers said in interviews, suggesting that the barium technique may open the way to a more rigorous exploration of early-life dietary history of fossil hominins.
研究者在接受采访时说，这是第一例关于幼年尼安德特人饮食变化的资料，对于古人类化石的幼年饮食历史来说，这预示着钡测试技术或许能为进行更加严格的探索打开一扇门。
“Our studies on macaques and modern human children provide strong evidence that barium patterns in teeth do accurately reflect transitions from maternal milk to weaning,” said Manish Arora, a team member from the University of Sydney. He is also affiliated with the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City, and acted as the principal spokesman for the researchers.
来自悉尼大学(University of Sydney)的研究团队成员马尼什·阿罗拉(Manish Arora)说，“我们对猕猴和现代人类儿童的研究提供了强有力的证据，表明牙齿中的钡含量分布准确地反映出了母乳断奶的饮食转变。”他还隶属于纽约市西奈山医院(Mount Sinai Hospital)的伊坎医学院(Icahn School of Medicine)，并且是这些研究者的主要发言人。
But Michael Richards, a specialist in ancient teeth and bones at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, noted that the examination of trace elements, like barium, in archaeological samples went out of use in the 1970s and ’80s, as scientists showed that bone and teeth incorporated elements from the soil they were buried in, not necessarily from a lifetime diet.
但是德国莱比锡马克斯·普朗克演化人类学研究所(Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology)的古代牙齿和骨骼专家迈克尔·理查兹(Michael Richards)指出，对于考古样本中钡之类微量元素的检测在上世纪七、八十年代就已经被废弃不用了，因为科学家证明骨头和牙齿会从埋葬它们的土壤中吸收元素，并不一定来自活着的时候的饮食。
“Recently, perhaps as the generation that did this work retires,” Dr. Richards continued, a new generation has been “returning to these methods.” He said he was surprised that Nature published the report.
“最近，或许是得出这一成果的一代人退休了，”理查兹接着说，新一代人“又开始使用这些方法了。”他说他为《自然》期刊发表这篇报道感到吃惊。
Other scientists who investigate Neanderthals and other extinct hominins were guarded in their assessment of the findings. They worried that the key element in the study was confined to only one fossil specimen.
其他研究尼安德特人和其他已灭绝人类远祖的科学家对于他们研究结果的分析持谨慎态度。他们表示了担忧，原因是研究中的关键元素取自仅仅一个化石标本。
Dr. Arora acknowledged that “it is, of course, not possible to generalize to all Neanderthals from a single sample, but our observation of the exclusive breast-feeding period” in one young Neanderthal “does extend existing concepts of Neanderthal behavior.”
阿罗拉承认，“当然，不可能把从一个样本上得出的结论推广到全部尼安德特人身上，但我们（对于一名年幼尼安德特人）的纯母乳喂养期观察确实拓展了现存的对于尼安德特人行为的认知。”
Erik Trinkaus, a paleoanthropologist at Washington University in St. Louis, who is an authority on Neanderthals, said the onset of weaning in the test appeared to be too early. He also cautioned, “My impression is the physiology and chemistry of nursing is vastly more complicated, and the concentrations of barium are too low that it’s hard to get reliable data.”
圣路易斯华盛顿大学(Washington University in St. Louis)的古人类学家埃里克·特林考斯(Erik Trinkaus)是一名尼安德特人研究领域的权威人士，他说，测试中断奶的开始似乎太早。他还提醒道，“在我的印象中，哺乳的生理学和化学要复杂得多，而且钡的浓度太低，很难得到可靠的数据。”
Tanya Smith, an evolutionary biologist at Harvard and an author of the report, said in an e-mail that the team hoped “to examine additional fossils to determine at what age Neanderthals naturally weaned their infants.” In the report, the researchers conceded that the abrupt, possibly early weaning could not be readily explained.
哈佛大学演化生物学家塔尼娅·史密斯(Tanya Smith)是报告的合著者之一，她在一封邮件中说，该研究小组希望“分析更多的化石来确定婴儿期的尼安德特人会在什么年龄自然断奶。”在报告中，研究者们承认，突然的、可能过早的断奶要解释起来并不容易。“
“We are excited about this technique as we feel that it will allow us to look directly at weaning, an important aspect of life history, in expanded samples of Neanderthals and fossil Homo sapiens,” Dr. Smith said.
“我们对这项技术感到很兴奋，因为我们感到，它让我们可以通过更多的尼安德特人和智人的化石样本直接观察到断奶这个生命历史中的重要方面，”史密斯说。
The timing of weaning can be critical in contemporary human societies. Completed too early, it can expose a child to more health problems; but shorter periods of breast-feeding lead to shorter intervals between births, which influences population growth.
断奶时间对于现代人类社会有着重要的意义。断奶时间过早会让孩子面临众多健康问题的威胁；但较短的母乳喂养时间也意味着生育间隔时间的缩短，这会对人口增长速度产生影响。