WASHINGTON — I WENT Friday morning to see “Selma” and found myself watching it in a theater full of black teenagers.
华盛顿——周五早上去看《塞尔玛》(Selma)，我发现剧场里坐满了黑皮肤的少男少女。
Thanks to donations, D.C. public school kids got free tickets to the first Hollywood movie about the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. on his birthday weekend — an effort that was duplicated for students around the country.
这个周末恰逢基督教牧师小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr.)博士的诞辰。由于有人捐款，华盛顿特区公立学校的孩子们可以免费观看第一部关于路德·金的好莱坞电影——这种做法在全美各地得到了效仿。
The kids did plenty of talking and texting, and plenty of fighting over whether there was too much talking and texting. Slowly but surely, though, the crowd was drawn in by the Scheherazade skills of the “Selma” director, Ava DuVernay.
孩子们不停地说话、发短信，还因为是否有人说了太多话、发了太多短信而不停地争吵。但慢慢地，观众显然被《塞尔玛》的导演阿娃·杜威内(Ava DuVernay)堪比谢赫拉莎德(Scheherazade)的叙事技巧给吸引住了。
The horrific scene of the four schoolgirls killed in the white supremacist bombing of a Birmingham, Ala., church stunned the audience. One young man next to me unleashed a string of expletives and admitted that he was scared. When civil rights leaders are clubbed, whipped and trampled by white lawmen as feral white onlookers cheer, the youngsters seemed aghast.
白人至上主义者用炸弹袭击阿拉巴马州伯明翰市的一座教堂，致使四个女学生命丧黄泉的恐怖场景，令观众震惊不已。坐在我旁边的一个小伙子飚了一串脏话，他承认他被吓到了。当民权领袖们被人用棍棒和皮鞭招呼的时候，当他们的尊严在狂热的白人围观群众的助威声中遭到白人执法人员肆意践踏的时候，孩子们似乎相当震惊。
In a delicately wrought scene in which Coretta Scott King calls out her husband about his infidelities, some of the teenage girls reacted with a chorus of “oooohs.”
看到科丽塔·斯科特·金(Coretta Scott King)大声控诉丈夫不忠这个精心处理的场景，一些十几岁的女孩子不约而同地长长地“哦”了一声。
DuVernay sets the tone for her portrayal of Lyndon Johnson as patronizing and skittish on civil rights in the first scene between the president and Dr. King. L.B.J. stands above a seated M.L.K., pats him on the shoulder, and tells him “this voting thing is just going to have to wait” while he works on “the eradication of poverty.”
在林登·约翰逊(Lyndon Johnson)总统和金博士共同入镜的第一个场景里，杜威内就为前者对民权的态度定了调：居高临下而又摇摆不定。站着的约翰逊拍了拍坐着的路德·金的肩膀说，“选举这事儿还得缓缓”，因为他正忙于“消除贫困”。
Many of the teenagers by me bristled at the power dynamic between the men. It was clear that a generation of young moviegoers would now see L.B.J.’s role in civil rights through DuVernay’s lens.
两人之间的权力互动触怒了我旁边的许多少年。很明显，年轻一代的电影观众现在要透过杜威内的镜头来了解约翰逊对民权的立场了。
And that’s a shame. I loved the movie and find the Oscar snub of its dazzling actors repugnant. But the director’s talent makes her distortion of L.B.J. more egregious. Artful falsehood is more dangerous than artless falsehood, because fewer people see through it.
这是令人遗憾的。我喜欢这部电影，奥斯卡居然冷落了片中那些耀眼的演员，真是让人不齿。但导演杜威内扭曲了约翰逊的形象，她所具有的天赋，让这种扭曲变得更加糟糕。巧妙的谎言比不巧妙的谎言更危险，因为能看穿的人更少。
DuVernay told Rolling Stone that, originally, the script was more centered on the L.B.J.-M.L.K. relationship and was “much more slanted to Johnson.”
杜威内告诉《滚石》(Rolling Stone)杂志，剧本原本更注重于展现约翰逊和金之间的关系，也“更倾向于约翰逊”。
“I wasn’t interested in making a white-savior movie,” she said.
“我没兴趣拍一部关于白人救世主的电影，”她说。
Hollywood has done that with films like “Mississippi Burning,” which cast white F.B.I. agents as the heroes, or “Cry Freedom,” which made a white journalist the focus rather Denzel Washington’s anti-apartheid activist, Steve Biko.
好莱坞已经拍过这类主题的影片了，比如展现白人联邦调查局(FBI)探员英雄气概的《密西西比在燃烧》，比如聚焦于白人记者而非丹泽尔·华盛顿(Denzel Washington)扮演的反种族隔离活动人士史蒂夫·比科(Steve Biko)的《哭喊自由》(Cry Freedom)。
Instead of painting L.B.J. and M.L.K. as allies, employing different tactics but complementing each other, the director made Johnson an obstacle.
杜威内没有把约翰逊和金描绘成虽然采取不同策略但却相辅相成的盟友，而是把约翰逊描绘成了绊脚石。
Top Johnson aide Jack Valenti told Michael Beschloss, the presidential historian, that L.B.J. aspired to pass a Voting Rights Act from his first night as president. Valenti said that his boss talked to him about it the night of J.F.K.’s assassination in the bedroom of Johnson’s house in D.C., The Elms, before the newly sworn-in president went to sleep.
约翰逊的高级助手约翰·瓦伦蒂(JackValenti)告诉以美国总统为研究对象的历史学家迈克尔·贝施洛斯(Michael Beschloss)，约翰逊自从当上总统的那天晚上开始，就一直寻求通过一部《选举权法案》(Voting Rights Act)。瓦伦蒂说，约翰·F·肯尼迪(J.F.K)遇刺当晚，刚刚宣誓就职的约翰逊总统临睡前，就在其华府宅邸榆树苑(The Elms)的卧室里和瓦伦蒂谈起过法案的事。
On the tape of a phone conversation between President Johnson and Dr. King the week of L.B.J.’s 1965 inauguration, the president said that he indicated the time was not yet ripe to ask Congress for it, and he made it clear that they both needed to think of something that would move public opinion more than a presidential speech.
约翰逊总统在1965年他宣布就职的那个礼拜跟金博士通过电话。根据电话录音，约翰逊当时说，他认为让国会就这一法案表决的时机还不成熟；他还明确表示，他们都需要想想，有没有什么东西比总统演讲更能推动公共舆论。
“Johnson was probably thinking, at least in part, of the spring of ’63, when J.F.K. was privately saying the public wasn’t yet politically ready for a comprehensive civil rights bill,” Beschloss said. “Then came the May 1963 photograph of Birmingham police setting dogs against African-American demonstrators, which helped to move many white Americans who were on the fence about the issue.
“至少在某种程度上，约翰逊可能正考虑1963年春天肯尼迪私下里说过的话——公众尚未做好迎接一部全面的民权法案的政治准备，”贝施洛斯说。“等到1963年5月，伯明翰警方放出警犬攻击游行示威的非裔美国人的照片被公之于众，对该议题持中立态度的很多美国白人都受到了触动。” 
“Once Selma happened, L.B.J. was, of course, horrified, but he knew that the atrocity would have an effect on white Americans similar to Birmingham that would make it easier for him to get a Voting Rights Act from Congress.”
“塞尔玛事件发生之初，约翰逊当然是非常震惊的，但他知道，暴行会像影响伯明翰一样影响美国白人，从而降低他敦促国会通过《民权法案》的难度。”
In an interview with Gwen Ifill on P.B.S., DuVernay dismissed the criticism by Joseph Califano Jr. and other L.B.J. loyalists, who said that the president did not resist the Selma march or let J. Edgar Hoover send a sex tape of her husband to Mrs. King. (Bobby Kennedy, as J.F.K’s attorney general, is the one who allowed Hoover to tap Dr. King.)
杜威内接受公共电视台(PBS)的格温·艾菲尔(Gwen Ifill)采访时，驳斥了小约瑟夫·卡利法诺(Joseph Califano Jr.)等约翰逊的忠实拥趸的批评——后者或称总统并未阻止塞尔玛游行，或称他并没让J·埃德加·胡佛(J. Edgar Hoover )给金的夫人寄送她丈夫的性爱录像带。（曾在肯尼迪政府担任司法部长的鲍比·肯尼迪[Bobby Kennedy]，是授意胡佛给金博士录像的人。）
“This is art; this is a movie; this is a film,” DuVernay said. “I’m not a historian. I’m not a documentarian.”
“这是艺术，这是一部片子，一部电影，”杜威内说。“我不是历史学家。我拍的不是纪录片。”
The “Hey, it’s just a movie” excuse doesn’t wash. Filmmakers love to talk about their artistic license to distort the truth, even as they bank on the authenticity of their films to boost them at awards season.
“喂，它只是一部片子”——这种托词站不住脚。电影摄制者喜欢讨论他们以艺术之名扭曲事实的权利，即使是在迎来颁奖季，指望用电影的真实性为自己加分时也不例外。
John Lewis, the Georgia congressman who was badly beaten in Selma, has said that bridge led to the Obama White House. And, on Friday night, the president offset the Oscar dis by screening “Selma” at the White House. Guests included DuVernay, Lewis and Oprah Winfrey, who acts in the film and was one of its producers.
在塞尔玛遭到毒打的佐治亚州国会议员约翰·刘易斯(John Lewis)曾经说过，奥巴马沿着那座桥走进了白宫。周五晚上，奥巴马总统通过在白宫放映《塞尔玛》，弥补了该片未获奥斯卡认可的遗憾。出席的嘉宾包括杜威内、刘易斯，以及具有该片演员和制片人双重身份的奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)。
There was no need for DuVernay to diminish L.B.J., given that the Civil Rights Movement would not have advanced without him. Vietnam is enough of a pox on his legacy.
杜威内没有必要贬低约翰逊总统，如果没有他，民权运动(Civil Rights Movement)就无法取得这么大的进展。他的政治生涯中有越南战争这么一个污点已经够了。
As I have written about “Lincoln,” “Zero Dark Thirty,” and “Argo,” and as The New York Review of Books makes clear about “The Imitation Game,” the truth is dramatic and fascinating enough. Why twist it? On matters of race — America’s original sin — there is an even higher responsibility to be accurate.
正如我在关于《林肯》(Lincoln)、《猎杀本·拉登》(Zero Dark Thirty)和《逃离德黑兰》(Argo)的文章中所提到的，以及《纽约书评》上关于《模仿游戏》(The Imitation Game)的文章所明确指出的那样，事实本身已经足够戏剧化、足够摄人心魄了。为什么要扭曲它呢？种族问题是美国所背负的原罪，以此为主题的作品，更要力求准确。