Rebecca Lee shows how far she can push the boundaries of so-called civilized behavior by opening “Bobcat,” her mesmerizingly strange new short-story collection, with an elaborate dinner party. The hostess and narrator has made a terrine, and even that showy culinary effort carries a whiff of violence. And it is mentioned on the first page of the title story, well before the night’s serious maiming has begun.
丽贝卡·李(Rebecca Lee)的新短篇小说集《山猫》(Bobcat)新颖而令人着迷，开篇提到一场精致的宴会，她在其中展示了她能把所谓的文明行为的边界推得多远。故事的讲述者是宴会的女主人，她做了一道五香碎肉，甚至连这道炫耀手艺的菜也带有几分暴力的味道。对此的描述是在《山猫》这篇小说的第一页提到的，而当晚更可怕的残忍描述还远没有开始。
“I felt queasy enough that I had to sit in the living room and narrate to my husband what was the brutal list of tasks that would result in a terrine,” she tells the reader. She has had to “devein, declaw, decimate the sea and other animals, eventually emulsifying them into a paste which could then be riven with whole vegetables.” Another spooky harbinger: this woman is a Manhattan lawyer whose latest client is responsible for the death of his wife.
“我恶心得受不了了，坐到客厅里跟丈夫讲述做五香碎肉需要进行多少道残忍的工序，”她对读者说。她必须“杀死海鲜以及其他动物，去掉内脏和爪子，最后把它们剁成肉酱，和各种蔬菜搅到一起”。另外还有一个令人毛骨悚然的先兆：这个女人是曼哈顿的一位律师，她最近的一位客户正因妻子的死亡而被追究责任。
Once the guests arrive, Ms. Lee ratchets up the malice. She also did that in her debut novel, “The City Is a Rising Tide,” but it suits the short-story format even better. This collection is full of shivers and frissons, some surpassingly strange, like the image of unborn apples existing as liquid in the “gnarled, knotty, nearly human arms of apple trees.”
客人们到达之后，李女士立刻让气氛变得更恐怖了。她在自己的处女小说《城市涨潮》(The City Is a Rising Tide)中也是这样做的，不过这种手法更适合短篇小说。这个小说集充满了让人颤栗的情节，其中有些十分特别，比如其中提到，“苹果树的枝干像长满瘤子的手臂”，未出生的苹果就像生存在这手臂里的液体。
At the “Bobcat” dinner, guests include Kitty Donner, who is descended from a member of the Donner party and has an unnerving way of saying the word meat “many more times than seemed amusing or rational.” Though Kitty denies that the Donner party survivors ever resorted to cannibalism, her husband, Ray, says he watches his back all the same.
《山猫》宴会上的其中一位客人基蒂·唐纳(Kitty Donner)是唐纳聚会(Donner party)的一名成员的后裔，她说“肉”这个字的方式十分令人不安，而且“说得次数太多了，不再让人觉得有趣，而是觉得不正常”。虽然基蒂否认唐纳聚会的幸存者曾经吃过人肉，但是她的丈夫雷(Ray)说他仍然小心提防。
Like several other guests, Ray seems involved in a not very well hidden extramarital affair, and the dinner party eventually strips all camouflage from these secret liaisons. That candor is somehow prompted by Susan, a woman who enjoys telling how a bobcat tore off her arm.
像其他几位客人那样，雷似乎也发生了婚外恋，而且隐藏得不太好，宴会最终撕下了这些秘密关系的伪装。坦白不知为何是由苏珊(Susan)引起的，她喜欢讲山猫撕扯她手臂的事。
The next of this book’s seven highly imaginative stories could not be more different. “The Banks of the Vistula” concerns an overeager freshman at a Minnesota college who plagiarizes her first paper for a linguistics class. But her choice of source material is unfortunate: an old book that stirs up terrible memories for her elderly Polish professor. “It reads like it was written 50 years ago,” he accurately tells the freshman, whose stolen words don’t fool him for an instant. “It reads like Soviet propaganda.”
这本书的七个故事都非常有想象力，第二个故事《维斯瓦河畔》(The Banks of the Vistula)尤其与众不同。它讲的是明尼苏达州某大学里的一个大一新生，由于过于好胜所以在写语言学课程的第一篇论文时剽窃的故事。但是她选择的抄袭对象太不巧了：她抄的是一本老书，那本书激起了她年老的波兰裔教授可怕的回忆。“这篇论文读起来像是50年前写的，”他准确地告诉这位新生，因为她抄来的文字一下子就被他识破了，“读起来像是苏联的政治宣传文章。”
Soviet propaganda shames and angers a man who saw Warsaw burn in 1944, witnessed both Nazi and Soviet aggression against his homeland, and was found guilty of treason by his own people. Against the backdrop of this history, the freshman’s lies would seem comically transparent were they not also painful.
苏联政治宣传式的文章让他感到羞耻和愤怒，因为他亲眼看到1944年华沙被烧毁的情形，看到纳粹和苏联对自己祖国的进攻，而且他祖国的人民还认为他有叛国罪。由于老师的这些背景，这个新生的作弊不仅明显得可笑，而且让人痛心。
One of Ms. Lee’s disarming ways of exposing a naïve girl from the Midwest to bitter World War II bloodshed is to describe the sight of forks planted in the snow by freshman boys; suddenly, this image resembles a graveyard. And the girl’s lies are eventually undone. “I had to resort finally to the truth, that rinky-dink little boat in the great sea of persuasion,” she says with the eccentric eloquence that makes “Bobcat” so potent and unpredictable.
李女士通过描写这个来自中西部的天真女孩得知“二战”残酷杀戮的情形，让人消除了怒气，其中一个场景是她看到大一男生们把叉子扎到雪里。突然之间，那场面很像墓地。女孩的谎言最终被挽回了。她说“我最终必须接受真相，而真相就像信念大海上的一艘破旧的小船”，这话中的那种古怪文采使《山猫》一书充满说服力而且出人意料。
The incidental connections between Ms. Lee’s characters can be as memorable as her stories’ larger themes. So can surreal imaginings, like this one about the Polish professor: “Underneath his coat he was wearing a dark jacket and a tie. It looked sweet and made me think that if one kept undressing him, darker and darker suits would be found underneath.”
李女士书中人物的偶然联系和她故事的宏大主题一样让人难忘。其中超现实的想象也是如此，比如对波兰教授的这段描写：“他外衣里面穿着一件黑色的上衣，打着领结。看起来很可爱，让我开始想，如果脱掉这些外衣，你应该会发现里面有一层又一层更黑的上衣。”
If that speaks obliquely to the man’s layered history, this description of hand-holding between the narrator and a suitor says something about how Ms. Lee unveils intimacies. “The way his hand held mine was alluring,” she writes. “His hand had the nimbus of an idea about it, as if the gene that had sprung this hand had a different world in mind, a better world, where hands had more torque when they grasped each other, and people held things differently, like hooks — a world where all objects were shaped something like lanterns, and were passed on and on.”
如果那是在暗示此人一层又一层的历史，那下面这段对讲述者和求婚者拉手的描写展现了李女士揭开亲密关系面纱的方式。“他拉我的手的方式十分诱人，”她写道，“他的手仿佛有一圈光环，从他的手生发出来的基因好像有一个不同的精神世界、一个更好的世界——在那个世界里，紧紧拉着的两只手有更大的力量，人们抓东西的方式很特别，像钩子一样；在那个世界里，所有的物体像灯笼那样连在一起，被不断地传送下去。”
Three other stories in “Bobcat” have this same kind of mysterious beauty (the two remaining stories, “World Party” and “Settlers,” are notably minor). Among the best is “Min,” which is the name of a man of Chinese heritage who brings a female American friend to Hong Kong, where his father is a powerful government official (the year is 1989). The American is charged with finding a wife for Min, even though she would readily volunteer for that role herself.
《山猫》里另外还有三个故事也具有同样神秘的美（剩下的两个故事《世界党》[World Party]和《移居者》[Settlers]明显不太重要）。《民》(Min)是其中比较优秀的一篇，这个标题是一个华裔男人的名字，他把一个美国女性朋友带到了香港，他父亲是香港的一个有权势的政府官员（那时是1989年）。那个美国人受托为民找老婆，虽然她本人非常愿意成为他的妻子。
And in a story full of exotic beauty, nothing is lovelier than the notes Min’s grandmother made when trying to marry off Min’s father in similar fashion. The grandmother chose a woman who would have been unacceptable for racial and economic reasons. But her notes say: “Has no wealth, but carries purple light. Seems like a cloud about to burst. Sleeps lightly, fond of gods.”
在这个充满异国情调的故事里，最可爱的就是民的祖母在努力以类似的方式给民的父亲张罗婚姻时写下的笔记。祖母选择的那个女人本来因为种族和经济的原因是不会被接受的。但是她在笔记中写道：“她没有家产，但是身上带有紫光。就像一朵即将爆发的云。睡觉也保持着警醒，信神。”
“Fialta,” which won a well-deserved National Magazine Award, describes an artists colony somewhat like Frank Lloyd Wright’s Taliesin. The narrator, a man, describes the Wright-like figure, Franklin Stadbakken, as “that great and troubled mess of a man I once knew,” and the hint of hostility is well justified. The narrator falls in love with a woman whom Stadbakken wants, and when that happens his future is more or less assured. He winds up bereft, surrounded by four cows named after Stadbakken’s wives that “watched on, remembering human love.”
《费艾尔塔》(Fialta)获得国家杂志奖(National Magazine Award)真是当之无愧，它描述了一个艺术家聚集地，有点像弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)的塔列辛(Taliesin)。讲述者是个男人，他描述了一个赖特式的人物富兰克林·斯达德巴肯(Franklin Stadbakken)，说他是“我曾经认识的那个大笨蛋”，其中暗含的敌意是有原因的。讲述者爱上了斯达德巴肯想要的女人，出现了这种情况，他的未来或多或少已经没什么指望了。他最终失去了一切，只有四头母牛陪伴着他，他用斯达德巴肯妻子们的名字给母牛命名，它们“守望着、纪念着人类的爱情”。
Finally, there is the wholly unexpected baby talk of “Slatland,” the book’s strangest and most unfettered story. An 11-year-old girl is sent to a psychiatrist who speaks to her in odd jargon (“the little erky-terk”) and sounds dangerously like someone out of a fairy tale. But he teaches her to transcend her problems in a way so magical she never forgets it. “It is as if there are thin slats, footholds, from here to the sun, Margit, for all the baby faces to step on,” says the man calling himself Prof. Roland Boland Pine. “Do you understand?”
最后一篇《板条之地》(Slatland)是完全出人意料的儿语，它是这本小说集中最奇怪、最无拘无束的故事。一个11岁的小女孩被送到了一个精神病医生那里，那个医生用古怪的术语跟她讲话，他听起来很可怕，像童话故事里的怪物。但是他教会了她超越自己苦恼的方法，这个方法十分神奇，她永远也忘不了。“玛吉特，它就像从这里通往太阳的细板条、脚手架，所有的小孩都能顺着它往上爬，”这个自称罗兰·伯兰·派恩(Roland Boland Pine)教授的人说道。“你明白吗？”
She does understand. And she is drawn back to him years later when she becomes involved with a politically opinionated Romanian liar who cheats on her. Rezvan Balescu, the liar, has many opinions about America, but none more memorable than this one marveling about Ronald Reagan, in the era of Ceausescu. “All day long people insult him,” Rezvan says, “and he doesn’t kill any of them.”
她的确明白。多年以后，她又回来找他，因为她碰到一个罗马尼亚骗子，他对政治固执己见，在感情上背叛了她。那个骗子叫雷兹万·巴勒斯科(Rezvan Balescu)，他对美国有很多意见，其中最让人难忘的是下面这句对罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的惊叹——当时罗马尼亚正处于齐奥塞斯库(Ceausescu)的专制统治之下。“人们一天到晚辱骂他，”雷兹万说，“但是他一个也没杀。”