Henrietta Lacks was only 31 when she died of cervical cancer in 1951 in a Baltimore hospital. Not long before her death, doctors removed some of her tumor cells. They later discovered that the cells could thrive in a lab, a feat no human cells had achieved before.
1951年，亨丽埃塔·拉克斯(Henrietta Lacks)因宫颈癌病逝于巴尔的摩一家医院，当时她只有31岁。去世后不久，医生从她体内取出了一些癌细胞。随后他们发现，这些细胞能在实验室中大量增殖，这样的“壮观”景象之前从未见于人类细胞。
Soon the cells — called HeLa cells — were being shipped from Baltimore around the world. In the 62 years since — twice as long as Ms. Lacks’s own brief life — her cells have been the subject of more than 74,000 studies, many of which have yielded profound insights into cell biology, vaccines, in vitro fertilization and cancer.
很快，这些称为“海拉细胞”(HeLa cells)的细胞就开始从巴尔的摩运往世界各地。62年过去了——这是拉克斯女士寿命的两倍——她的细胞承担了超过74,000个研究课题，其中很多已在细胞生物学、疫苗、体外授精和癌症等方面结出了硕果。
But Henrietta Lacks, who was poor, black and uneducated, never consented to her cells’ being studied. For 62 years, her family has been left out of the decision-making about that research. Now, over the past four months, the National Institutes of Health has come to an agreement with the Lacks family to grant them control over how Henrietta Lacks’s genome is used.
但亨丽埃塔·拉克斯这名贫穷、教育程度低的黑人，生前从未对自己细胞用于研究表示过同意。62年来，她的家属一直被排除在有关研究的决策过程之外。而今，美国国家卫生研究院（National Institute of Health，简称NIH）在过去四个月里已与拉克斯家族达成协议，将拉克斯基因组使用的决定权授予他们。
“In 20 years at N.I.H., I can’t remember something like this,” Dr. Francis S. Collins, the institute’s director, said in an interview.
“我为NIH工作了20年，印象中还未曾有过这样的事，”NIH的院长弗朗西斯·S·柯林斯(Francis S. Collins)在接受采访时称。
The agreement, which does not provide the family with the right to potential earnings from future research on Ms. Lacks’s genome, was prompted by two projects to sequence the genome of HeLa cells, the second of which was published Wednesday in the journal Nature.
这项协议并没有把未来相关研究潜在获利的受益权赋予拉克斯家族。两项海拉细胞系基因测序研究促成了该协议的诞生，其中第二项研究于周三发表在《自然》期刊(Nature)上。
Though the agreement, which was announced Wednesday, is a milestone in the saga of Ms. Lacks, it also draws attention to a lack of policies to balance the benefits of studying genomes with the risks to the privacy of people whose genomes are studied — as well as their relatives.
周三公布的这一协议是拉克斯传奇中的一个里程碑。它也让人们注意到，在基因研究的益处和基因被研究的人士（及其亲属）隐私权受侵犯的风险之间，尚欠缺一些保持平衡的政策。
As the journalist Rebecca Skloot recounted in her 2010 best-seller, “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,” it wasn’t until 1973, when a scientist called to ask for blood samples to study the genes her children had inherited from her, that Ms. Lacks’s family learned that their mother’s cells were, in effect, scattered across the planet.
如记者丽贝卡·斯克鲁特(Rebecca Skloot)在其2010年畅销书《永生的亨丽埃塔·拉克斯》(The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks)中所述，直到1973年科学家们打来电话，请求提取血液样本用于研究她的孩子从她那里遗传获得的基因的时候，拉克斯女士的家属才获悉，他们母亲的细胞实际上已经遍布全球。
Some members of the family tried to find more information. Some wanted a portion of the profits that companies were earning from research on HeLa cells. They were largely ignored for years.
有些家庭成员试图了解更多情况，还有些要求从研究海拉细胞系的公司盈利中分到一定份额。然而多年来他们遭到的基本上是冷遇。
Ms. Lacks is survived by children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, many still living in or around Baltimore. And this March they experienced an intense feeling of déjà vu. Scientists at the European Molecular Biology Laboratory published the genome of a line of HeLa cells, making it publicly available for downloading. Another study, sponsored by the National Institutes of Health at the University of Washington, was about to be published in Nature. The Lacks family was made aware of neither project.
拉克斯女士身后留下的孩子，现在已有孙辈和曾孙辈，他们中很多人还生活在巴尔的摩或附近地区。今年3月，他们经历了似曾相识的一幕。来自欧洲分子生物学实验室(European Molecular Biology Laboratory)的科学家发布了海拉细胞系一个支系的基因组，可供公开下载。另一项由国家卫生研究院资助、华盛顿大学(University of Washington)进行的研究即将在《自然》期刊上发表。这两项研究都未曾让拉克斯家庭知悉。
“I said, ‘No, this is not right,’ ” Jeri Lacks Whye, one of Henrietta Lacks’s grandchildren, said in an interview. “They should not have this up unless they have consent from the family.”
“我说：‘不行，这样不对，’”亨丽埃塔·拉克斯的一名孙辈、洁丽·拉克斯·韦(Jeri Lacks Whye)接受采访时说。“他们不该未获我们家人的同意就去做这些研究。”
Officials at the National Institutes of Health now acknowledge that they should have contacted the Lacks family when researchers first applied for a grant to sequence the HeLa genome. They belatedly addressed the problem after the family raised its objections.
美国国家卫生研究院的官员现在承认，研究院在最初申请资金对海拉细胞基因组测序时，就应该联系拉克斯家族。而在拉克斯家族提出反对后，他们也没有及时处理该问题。
The European researchers took down their public data, and the publication of the University of Washington paper was stopped. Dr. Collins and Kathy L. Hudson, the National Institutes of Health deputy director for science, outreach and policy, made three trips to Baltimore to meet with the Lacks family to discuss the research and what to do about it.
欧洲研究者们撤下此前发布的公共数据，华盛顿大学的论文发表也被叫停。柯林斯医生以及美国国家卫生研究院负责科学、普及和政策副主任凯茜·L·哈德逊(Kathy L. Hudson) 三次前往巴尔的摩与拉克斯的家人见面，并就研究和接下来应该怎么办进行了讨论。
“The biggest concern was privacy — what information was actually going to be out there about our grandmother, and what information they can obtain from her sequencing that will tell them about her children and grandchildren and going down the line,” Ms. Lacks Whye said.
“最大的问题在于隐私——有哪些关于我祖母的信息将被公之于众，而通过她的基因排序，他们又能得到哪些能披露关于她的孩子、孙子女以及接下来一代代人隐私的信息呢，”拉克斯-伟说。
The Lacks family and the N.I.H. settled on an agreement: the data from both studies should be stored in the institutes’ database of genotypes and phenotypes. Researchers who want to use the data can apply for access and will have to submit annual reports about their research. A so-called “HeLa Genome Data Access working group” at the N.I.H. will review the applications. Two members of the Lacks family will be members. The agreement does not provide the Lacks family with proceeds from any commercial products that may be developed from research on the HeLa genome.
拉克斯家族和NIH达成了一项协议：两项研究所得出的数据应该被储存在该研究院的基因型和表型数据库。想要使用数据的研究者可以进行申请，获得权限，而且必须每年提交研究报告。NIH一个被称为“海拉基因组数据权限获取工作小组”的组织会对这些申请进行审查。小组中将有拉克斯的两名家族成员。根据协议，拉克斯家族不会获得海拉基因组研究所产生的任何可能商业产品带来的利益。
With this agreement in place, the University of Washington researchers were then able to publish their results. Their analysis goes beyond the European study in several ways. Most important, they show precisely where each gene is situated in HeLa DNA.
签订上述协议后，华盛顿大学的研究人员便可以发表其研究结果了。他们的分析在几个方面超过了欧洲的研究。最重要的是，他们精确地说明了海拉细胞DNA中每一个基因的具体位置。
Richard Sharp, the director of biomedical ethics at the Mayo Clinic, said he thought the agreement “was pretty well handled.” But he warned that it was only a “one-off solution,” rather than a broad policy to address the tension between genome research and the privacy of relatives, now that recent research has demonstrated that it is possible to reveal a person’s identity through sequencing.
梅奥诊所(Mayo Clinic)生物医学伦理主任理查德·夏普(Richard Sharp)称，他认为该协议“颇为合理有效”。但他警告称，既然根据最近研究，能通过基因排序表明一个人的身份，而协议只是个“一次性解决方案”，不是一项宽泛政策，无法解决基因组研究和亲属隐私之间的矛盾。
Dr. Sharp considered it impractical to set up a working group of scientists and relatives for every genome with these issues. “There’s absolutely a need for a new policy,” he said.
夏普认为，针对每一个有问题的基因组都设立由科学家和亲属组成的工作小组是不现实的。“肯定需要出台新的政策，”他说。
Eric S. Lander, the founding director of the Broad Institute, a science research center at Harvard and M.I.T., said resolving these issues was crucial to taking advantage of the knowledge hidden in our genomes.
哈佛大学(Harvard)及麻省理工大学(MIT)博德研究所(Broad Institute)的创始人、所长埃里克·兰德(Eric Lander)说，解决这些问题对于利用隐藏在我们基因组里的知识至关重要。
“If we are going to solve cancer, it’s going to take a movement of tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of patients willing to contribute information from their cancer genomes towards a common good,” Dr. Lander said. “We are going to need to have ways to have patients feel comfortable doing that. We can’t do it without a foundation of respect and trust.”
“如果我们要攻克癌症难题，将需要数万甚至数十万病人愿意出于公益贡献出关于他们癌症细胞基因组的相关信息，”兰德说。“我们需要有一些方法，让病人乐意这么做。没有尊重和信任作基础，我们做不成这件事。”