WASHINGTON — One year after President Obama rallied core allies to join the United States in punishing Russia for its bellicose ways, he will use a gathering on Sunday of the world’s largest industrialized democracies to urge them to stand strong, and together, in isolating the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin.
华盛顿——在奥巴马总统召集核心盟友与美国一起惩罚俄罗斯的种种挑衅行为的一年后，他将利用世界上最大的工业化民主国家在周日召开的会议，敦促各国有力地团结在一起，孤立俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V Putin)。
But this time, Mr. Obama faces an additional challenge: It is not entirely clear that their efforts are working.
不过这一次，奥巴马面临着一个额外的挑战：目前并不能完全看出他们的努力起到了作用。
The tough economic sanctions that have been the linchpin of American and European efforts to confront Moscow over its annexation of Crimea last year and its continuing aggression in Ukraine have, along with the lower price of oil, exacted a toll on Russia. They may even have helped deter Mr. Putin from escalating his intervention.
在莫斯科去年吞并克里米亚并持续入侵乌克兰以来，严厉的经济制裁一直是美国和欧洲联手对抗俄罗斯的行动核心。这些制裁措施，加上石油价格的下跌，让俄罗斯付出了一定的代价。它们甚至可能还帮助阻止了普京将军事干预进一步升级。
But they evidently have not forced him to give up his designs on Ukraine or to surrender Crimea, and many analysts believe he is playing a waiting game on the assumption that he can outlast Euro-American solidarity.
不过，这些行动显然没有迫使普京放弃他对乌克兰的计划，或者是在克里米亚问题上让步。许多分析人士认为，普京认为自己能耗过欧洲和美国的联盟，打算与对方打持久战。
A recent visit by Secretary of State John Kerry to the Black Sea resort city of Sochi for a meeting with Mr. Putin — questioned even by some inside the White House — sharpened debate over the Obama administration’s stance, leaving the Russian president claiming a diplomatic triumph while American officials scrambled to explain that their policy had not changed.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)最近访问了黑海旅游城市索契，与普京会面——此举甚至遭到了一些白宫内部人士的质疑。这加剧了有关奥巴马政府立场的争论，让普京可以宣称取得了一次外交胜利，而美国官员则需慌忙澄清，自己的政策没有改变。
Mr. Obama arrives in the Bavarian Alps on Sunday to face those doubts during a two-day summit meeting of the Group of 7 world powers.
奥巴马将于周日抵达巴伐利亚的阿尔卑斯山区，在七国集团的两天峰会期间面对这些质疑。
His immediate task is to steel the resolve of European powers scheduled to meet at the end of the month to review their sanctions against Moscow. Mr. Obama wants them to keep those measures in place, and also to signal that they are willing to go even further should Russia escalate its aggression in Ukraine.
他迫在眉睫的任务是坚定欧洲各国的决心。这些国家定于本月底举行会晤，重新审核对莫斯科的制裁措施。奥巴马希望能保留这些措施，而且想要让他们表明，如果俄罗斯升级对乌克兰的入侵，他们还愿意采取进一步的行动。
“Most urgently, the focus is on maintaining the unity around the sanctions effort that has had very significant consequences on the Russian economy,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama.
奥巴马的副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J Rhodes)说，“最迫切的是，把重点放到在制裁方面保持团结。这些制裁措施对俄罗斯经济产生了重要影响。”
“We need to maintain the pressure, show that there cannot be cracks in the trans-Atlantic unity, and show that the costs are just going to continue to grow for Russia,” he added.
他还表示，“我们需要保持压力，展现出大西洋两岸的联盟不可能破裂，表明俄罗斯要付出的代价只会越来越大。”
Mr. Obama began laying the groundwork on Friday in a phone call with President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine, in which the White House said he had reaffirmed American support and spoken of his determination to “maintain costs on Russia and the separatists” in eastern Ukraine until they honor a cease-fire agreement that is threatening to collapse after renewed clashes last week.
周五的时候，奥巴马开始为此做准备，致电乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O Poroshenko)。白宫称，奥巴马在电话中重申了美国支持乌克兰，并称自己决心“使俄罗斯和”乌克兰东部的“分裂分子持续付出代价”，直到他们遵守停火协议。在经过上周新一轮的冲突后，该协议面临瓦解的危险。
The debate over how to address Moscow’s aggression in Ukraine is likely to overshadow the meetings, to be held at a castlelike luxury hotel with sweeping alpine views.
有关如何处理莫斯科入侵乌克兰问题的争论可能会主导本次会议的议程。会议将在一个能够欣赏阿尔卑斯全景的城堡式的奢华酒店举行。
Top among Mr. Obama’s tasks will be “a little bit of mopping up” from the meeting Mr. Kerry held with Mr. Putin, said Julianne Smith, a former deputy national security adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
曾在副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R Biden Jr.)手下担任副国家安全顾问的茱莉安·史密斯(Julianne Smith)表示，奥巴马的首要任务中，需要包括“在某种程度上消除”克里与普京会面的影响。
“It created this kind of cloud of controversy around what is the U.S. strategy, why did he go?” Ms. Smith said, calling the visit “counterproductive” in some ways. Mr. Obama is now in the position of emphasizing to European leaders, particularly Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, the summit meeting’s host, that “we’re not trying to undercut your efforts — this was meant to enhance those efforts.
“这引发了有关美国策略的争论。他为什么会去？”史密斯说。她称此次访问在某些方面产生了“事与愿违的”效果。奥巴马现在不得不向欧洲各国的领导人、特别是主持此次峰会的德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)强调，“我们没有试图削弱你们的努力——这么做是为了加强这种努力。”