“Transformers: Age of Extinction,” the fourth film in an apparently inexhaustible, profoundly exhausting series based on Hasbro toys, raises, not for the first time, a basic question: Who are these movies for? This one, like its predecessors, is likely to make a lot of money all over the world, but that only makes the matter more puzzling. The “Transformers” franchise seems like the most baldly and cynically commercial calculation imaginable — it is merchandising-based entertainment at its purest — and yet somehow it does not pander.
《变形金刚》是建立在孩之宝玩具基础上的系列电影，似乎没完没了，令人精疲力竭，《变形金刚：绝迹重生》(Transformers: Age of Extinction)是它的第四部，它再度向人们提出一个基本的问题：这些电影是拍给谁看的？这部影片和几部前作一样，很可能在全球赚到大钱，但只会令这个问题更加让人困惑。获得授权的《变形金刚》系列大片似乎是人们能想象的最大胆，也最有反讽色彩的商业考量的结果——它是最纯粹的以推销产品为基础的娱乐，不过不知怎么却并不谄媚。
Certainly not to women, who are on screen mainly to be ogled, shamed and rescued. The few action-type things that the female characters are allowed to do — throw a punch, drive a car, fasten a cable to a big piece of metal — feel like grudging concessions to changing norms. The mysterious alien force that designed the Transformers made them all dudes.
当然对女人们来说并不是如此，她们在这部影片中主要是来眉目传情、被羞辱和被拯救的。女性角色仅有很少的动作片戏份，比如打人一拳、开车、给大件金属连上线缆——这些很像是对改变了的社会标准的勉强妥协。设计变形金刚的神秘外星势力把他们都造成了男性。
But even though these robots with the power to change into vehicles started out as children’s playthings, the movies are a little too vulgar, violent and nasty to have been made expressly for the youngest viewers. They’re also a little too dumb for the adolescent or adult genre geeks. The mythology seems to have been cobbled together at corporate strategy sessions out of notions ripped off from elsewhere. The battle between the human-allied Autobots and the treacherous Decepticons recalls the intramutant struggles of the X-Men universe. The sentient robots from a distant time who speak in catchphrases and smash buildings have some kinship with the Terminator. The elaborate, thematically overloaded martial back story carries echoes of Tolkien and “Star Wars.” Lasting 166 minutes — though it feels much longer — “Age of Extinction” makes clear what has always been true of the Transformers movies: Although they may look like soulless corporate studio product, they are really examples of personal cinema, expressions of the will and imagination of their director, Michael Bay. The narrative incoherence is a feature, not a bug. (The screenplay is by Ehren Kruger.) Mr. Bay’s strongest films (with the partial exception of “Pain and Gain”) are those in which the battle between sense and sensation ends in a rout. If you spend any time thinking about why the C.I.A. and an Apple-like technology corporation would be in cahoots with an intergalactic bounty hunter in an anti-Autobot pogrom you are missing the point.
但是，尽管这些能变形为交通工具的强大机器人是从儿童玩具演变而来，这部特意拍给小观众看的电影还是有些过于粗野、暴力和下流。而对于青春期和成年的类型电影狂热者们来说又有些过于乏味。这个神话似乎是在公司的战略会议上，用来自其他影片的创意七拼八凑而来。人类和汽车人的联盟与奸诈的霸天虎之间的战斗令人想起X战警世界中的变种人战斗。从遥远时空而来，有感情的机器人说着响亮的格言，摧毁建筑，这又有点像《终结者》(Terminator)。刻意而堆砌的武打故事像是托尔金(Tolkien)和《星球大战》(Star Wars)。《绝迹重生》片长166分钟，但是观众会感觉时间比这要长，它显然阐明了《变形金刚》电影中一贯真实的东西：尽管它们看上去是没有灵魂的大制片公司制作，但它们其实属于个人电影，表现出导演迈克尔·贝(Michael Bay)的意志与想象。不连贯的叙事是它的特色，而非漏洞（编剧是伊伦·克鲁格[Ehren Kruger]）。在迈克尔·贝最强有力的电影中（除去《付出与收获》[Pain and Gain]），理智与感情的斗争都以混乱告终。如果你花时间去思考，为什么中情局和一个很像苹果的技术公司会合起伙来与一个星际赏金猎人合作，发起一场反汽车人的大屠杀，那你就是没搞清楚状况。
If, on the other hand, you are bored by the sight of giant robots fighting, this will feel like a very long art film. Which, in effect, it is, albeit one that was made with unlimited resources. Those looking for conventional, middlebrow cinematic pleasures — witty dialogue, credible acting, the play of light and shadow across landscapes and faces — will find a few moments of satisfaction. Kelsey Grammer and Stanley Tucci are amusing as the C.I.A. heavy and his tech-mogul sidekick. The evening sun in a place identified as “Texas, USA” (as opposed to Texas, Belgium, I guess) is golden and lovely. So is Nicola Peltz as Tessa, the teenage daughter of an inventor played with cheerful machismo by Mark Wahlberg. Tessa has a boyfriend (Jack Reynor). That’s enough plot summary for now.
另外，如果你看腻了大块头的机器人打来打去，这部影片会让你感觉像是一部冗长的文艺片。实际上，它还就是一部冗长的文艺片——尽管影片的拍摄制作动用了大量的资源。希望来影院寻找传统而平庸快乐的观众——诙谐的谈吐、可信的打斗、风景与人物的光影效果——他们会觉得有几个片段还算令人满意。凯尔希·格兰莫(Kelsey Grammer)和史坦利·图齐(Stanley Tucci)饰演的中情局彪形大汉和技术专家助手很有意思。某处定位为“美国德克萨斯州”（我猜是和“比利时德克萨斯州”相对的）的落日景象金灿灿的，非常美丽。饰演泰莎的尼可拉·佩尔茨(Nicola Peltz)也很美，她是一个发明家的年轻女儿，这个发明家由令人振奋，有男子气概的马克·沃尔伯格(Mark Wahlberg)饰演。泰莎有个男朋友，由杰克·莱诺(Jack Reynor)饰演。目前这点情节梗概已经足够了。
The story is scaffolding for the action, and like every other standing structure it is wrecked in a thunderous shower of metal, glass, masonry and earth. Chicago, pounded almost flat the last time, takes another beating, and is joined by Hong Kong. The obliteration of cities is a commonplace in summer movies, but Mr. Bay is a connoisseur of urban demolition, adept at using digital imagery and fast editing to bend and mock the laws of physics and flout any sense of moral consequence.
故事结构完全是为动作场面搭建起来的，和片中的所有结构一样，在雷鸣暴雨般的金属、玻璃、砖石和泥土之中四分五裂。上次几乎被夷为平地的芝加哥又受了一次打击，香港也加入进来。在夏季大片里，城市被摧毁是常事，但迈克尔·贝是城市破坏专家，擅长使用数码制作的意象和快速的剪辑去违背物理规则，也蔑视任何道德后果。
You can admire what he does without really enjoying it, and two hours and 46 minutes of pulverized architecture is a lot to endure. But in every Michael Bay movie there are at least a few moments of inspired, kinetic absurdity. Late in “Age of Extinction,” a giant spaceship hovering over Hong Kong, equipped with some kind of magnet, sucks up a lot of vehicles — buses, trucks, fishing boats, ferries, whatever — and drops them onto the city below. I could not tell you exactly why, because it doesn’t matter, but the sequence is both exciting and revealing. It reminds you what these movies are really about: a boy at play, reveling in the creative and destructive power, and the glorious uselessness, of his own imagination.
你会佩服他所做的事，但却不会欣赏它，这2小时46分钟的摧毁建筑让人很难忍受。但在迈克尔·贝的所有电影中，至少会出现几个令人振奋、充满活力的荒诞时刻。在《绝迹重生》片尾，一艘巨大的宇宙飞船停留在香港上空，它配备着某种磁力武器，把许多交通工具吸了上去——公共汽车、卡车、渔船、渡船，等等等等——然后又把它们抛回下方的城市。我不能告诉你这到底是为什么，因为这无关紧要，但后果既令人兴奋又有启发性，会让你想到这些电影的真正主旨：一个男孩在玩耍，沉迷于创造与破坏力量，还有他的想象力中那种辉煌的无用性。