The uniquely uncivil presidential campaign is about to produce one of the biggest civic gatherings in decades: For 90 minutes Monday night, a polarized nation will pause to watch the first head-to-head encounter between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump.
今年，并不文明的美国总统竞选将创造出一次民众的大聚会，其规模在近几十年来可能都是数一数二的：在周一晚上的90分钟时间里，呈两极分化之势的美国民众将放下手头的事情，观看希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的首场正面交锋。
The total audience, network executives and political strategists say, could be as high as 100 million viewers — Super Bowl territory. That would surpass the 80 million who watched Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan in 1980, the record for a presidential debate, and rank among television benchmarks like the finales of “M.A.S.H." and “Cheers.”
广播网高管和政治策略人士称，观众总人数可能高达1亿人，堪比超级碗(Super Bowl)。这将超过吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)和罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)于1980年创下的8000万人的总统辩论观看纪录，跻身《陆军野战医院》(M.A.S.H.)和《干杯酒吧》(Cheers)大结局那样的收视标杆之列。
Tight polls and curiosity about the unconventional Trump are luring viewers. In a New York Times/CBS News poll this month, 83 percent of registered voters said they were very or somewhat likely to watch Monday.
势均力敌的民调结果和对言行另类的特朗普的好奇吸引着观众。在《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)本月进行的一项联合民调中，83%的注册选民表示非常或在一定程度上有可能观看周一的辩论。
“It’s a throwback to a phenomenon that has essentially disappeared in the era of digital media,” said Andrew Heyward, a former president of CBS News. “This is Americans gathering around the electronic hearth.”
“在数字媒体时代已经基本消失的一种现象又回来了，”CBS新闻频道前总裁安德鲁·海沃德(Andrew Heyward)说。“这可是全国民众聚集在电子壁炉周围。”
Still, even if a large portion of the country is watching, what Americans see may be as much about their beliefs and preferred news outlets as what transpires onstage.
不过，即便大批美国民众观看辩论，但自身的信仰及偏爱的新闻机构对他们实际看到的内容的影响，可能并不亚于台上发生的事情。
About 8 percent of registered voters remain undecided, according to this month’s poll, a thin if crucial sliver of the electorate. And after Clinton and Trump conclude Monday, viewers are likely to return to their ideological silos, absorbing instant analysis from left-leaning anchors on MSNBC or commentators at right-leaning outlets like Breitbart News.
本月的民调显示，大约8%的注册选民仍未拿定主意。这是一个至关重要但却规模不大的选民群体。克林顿和特朗普周一的辩论结束后，观众很可能会回到自己的意识形态堡垒之中，倾听MSNBC的左倾主持人或布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)等右倾新闻机构的评论员进行即时分析。
Tom Sander, who runs a program on civic engagement at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, said he was worried that voters might not have a chance to remove partisan blinders.
在哈佛大学肯尼迪政府学院(Harvard Kennedy School of Government)负责公民参与专业课程的汤姆·桑德尔(Tom Sander)表示，他担心选民可能并没有机会摘取带有党派特色的遮眼罩。
“Many of us come to these events more to confirm what we already think we know, rather than to search for common ground,” Sander said.
“我们很多人关注这些事情更多的是为了证实自认为已经知道的情况，而不是寻找共同点，”桑德尔说。
Many may tune in merely for the spectacle.
不少人观看辩论也许仅仅是因为它场面壮观。
“It’s like waiting for the Ali-Frazier fight,” said Dick Cavett, the longtime talk-show host, referring to the highly anticipated boxing bouts between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier in the 1970s.
“就像等着看阿里和弗雷兹的比赛一样，”长期担任脱口秀主持人的迪克·卡韦特(Dick Cavett)说。他拿来打比方的是穆罕默德·阿里(Muhammad Ali)和乔·弗雷泽(Joe Frazier)之间在70年代进行的备受期待的拳击比赛。
“There’s possible drama and fireworks and insults and horror and disaster and potential enlightenment,” Cavett said. “It would attract anybody.”
“可能会出现戏剧性的情节、火花、辱骂、恐吓、不幸和潜在的启迪，”卡韦特说。“所有人都会受到吸引。”