There have been numerous new dawns in Chinese soccer over the years, but this Saturday may witness the birth of a genuinely exciting period as Guangzhou Evergrande looks to become the first club from the world’s most populous country to become the champion of Asia since 1990.
最近几年中国足球迎来了很多新曙光，但这周六将要见证一个真正激动人心的时刻，因为广州恒大有望成为这个全球人口最多的国家自1990年以来首个夺取亚洲冠军的俱乐部球队。
On Oct. 26, Guangzhou tied the first leg of the 2013 Asian Champions League final, 2-2, at FC Seoul in South Korea. The southern Chinese club is the strong favorite to emerge triumphant in the second leg on Saturday evening at its home in Tianhe Stadium. More than 50,000 fans are expected to cheer the club on, and the city is already buzzing.
10月26日，广州恒大在2013亚冠决赛首回合中与韩国的首尔FC队打成2-2平。周六晚上，这支来自中国南方的球队很有可能赢得在天河体育场举行的第二回合。预计将有5万多球迷到场为这支球队加油，广州市已经开始沸腾。
“Many millions of Chinese people are waiting for the date of Nov. 9,” said Philippe Troussier, the French coach of the nearby club Shenzhen Ruby. “Who could imagine that a few months ago in China?”
附近深圳红钻队的法国教练菲利普·特鲁西耶(Philippe Troussier)说，“千百万中国人等待着11月9号的到来。几个月之前，中国有谁能预料到这一步呢？”
With the national team chronic underperformers— China has appeared at just one World Cup, in 2002, when it lost all three games without scoring — the country’s soccer fans are desperate for any kind of success, and many have united behind Guangzhou.
中国国家队长期以来表现拙劣，只在2002年打进过一次世界杯决赛圈，并且输掉了决赛圈小组赛阶段的全部三场比赛，一球未进。这一来，中国的足球迷迫切期待任何形式的胜利，很多人都联合起来支持广州队。
For years, fans in China have watched South Korea and Japan succeed at both the club and national levels. The two neighbors to the east send an increasing number of young players to the big European leagues, reach the knockout stages at World Cups and fight for medals at the Olympics.
多年来，中国球迷一直只能看着韩国和日本在俱乐部和国家队赛事当中取得成功。这两个东边的邻国进入欧洲大俱乐部的年轻选手人数日益增多，都曾进入世界杯淘汰赛阶段，还曾在奥运会上争夺奖牌。
Now China has a team that can win, and there is a sense that it will triumph this Saturday.
现在，中国终于有了一支可能获胜的球队，大家都觉得它会在周六的比赛中获胜。
‘‘In China, soccer is becoming attractive,’’ Troussier said. ‘‘Nothing can stop Guangzhou on the field or off it, as it has the vision, financial power and fan base.’’
特鲁西耶说，“足球在中国变得越来越有吸引力。没有人能在场上或场下阻止广州队，这支球队有希望、经济实力和球迷基础。”
Over 12,000 Chinese fans were in Seoul for the first leg to see their team collect two vital away goals. That means that Guangzhou can claim the trophy not just with a victory, but even a 1-1 or goalless tie on Saturday.
超过12000名中国球迷到首尔观看了第一回合比赛，看到他们的球队踢进了两个至关重要的客场进球。这意味着广州恒大在周六不仅可以通过获胜夺冠，甚至还可以凭借1-1或是0-0的平局夺冠。
Seoul was the underdog heading into the first leg, an unusual situation for any Korean team, as the K-League has produced 10 continental champions and has won three of the last four tournaments.
首尔在第一回合就不被人看好，这对于任何韩国球队来说都很少见，因为韩国的K联赛(K-League)已经产生过10次亚洲冠军，在过去的四次亚冠中三次夺冠。
‘‘Guangzhou really is at a different level to the five or six Chinese teams I have played against before,’’ said Seoul striker Dejan Damjanovic, who scored the equalizer late in the first leg. ‘‘I have never seen any Asian team play as well as that against us in our home stadium. Guangzhou has spent a lot of money, but you have to say that it has spent it well, which is something that not all Chinese teams have done.’’
首尔FC队的前锋德杨·达姆扬诺维奇(Dejan Damjanovic)在第一回合比赛快结束时踢进了一个球，帮助球队扳平。他说，“广州队和其他5、6个我以前对抗过的中国球队不在一个档次。我从没在我们的主场对抗过踢得这么好的亚洲球队。广州队花了很多钱，但是你必须承认这钱花得值，不是每个中国球队都是这样。”
When the team was relegated to the second tier of Chinese soccer in February 2010 as punishment for match-fixing, few would have imagined that, less than four years later, it would succeed where traditional soccer powers such as Beijing Guoan and Shandong Luneng have failed and be just 90 minutes away from the biggest prize in Asian club soccer. Its climb back up is partly due to its owner, Evergrande Group, a real estate company that bought the club immediately after its demotion. It has invested over $70 million since. Marcello Lippi, who was appointed coach in May 2012, did not come cheap, with a reported annual salary of around $14 million. The 65-year-old led his native Italy to the 2006 World Cup and is looking to become the first coach to win the showpiece club competitions of both Asia and Europe, following his 1996 UEFA Champions League triumph with the Italian giant Juventus.
2010年2月，广州恒大因为操纵比赛而被降入下一级别联赛，当时很少有人能想到，仅仅在不到四年的时间里，它就能在北京国安和山东鲁能等传统足球强队衰退的时候取得成功，并且走到了离亚洲足球俱乐部最大奖项只有90分钟的地方。它之所以能够东山再起，部分是因为它的东家、房地产公司恒大集团(Evergrande Group)。球队降级之后，恒大集团立即将它买了下来。从那时起，恒大集团对球队的投资超过了7000万美元。于2012年5月走马上任的球队教练马尔切洛·里皮(Marcello Lippi)并不好请，他的年薪据报在1400万美元左右。这个65岁的意大利人曾带领意大利队进入2006年的世界杯，目前有望成为首位同时赢得亚洲和欧洲最重要俱乐部奖项的教练。1996年，他带领意大利著名球队尤文图斯(Juventus)赢得了欧洲冠军联赛(UEFA Champions League)冠军。
In October, Guangzhou secured a third successive Chinese Super League title while barely breaking a sweat, finishing 18 points ahead of the second-place club, Shandong Luneng. It has signed the best talent in China — the national team roster announced on Tuesday contained nine of its players — and it has three of the most talented South American imports in all of Asia.
10月，广州恒大轻松实现中超联赛三连冠，领先位居第二的山东鲁能18分。它签下了中国最好的球员——周二宣布的国家队名单中包括9名恒大球员——还拥有全亚洲最优秀的三名南美球员。
Elkeson and Muriqui, both from Brazil, have played their part, but the standout player in this year’s continental tournament has been Darío Conca. The Argentine was signed in the summer of 2011 and, at the time, was reportedly the third-highest-paid player in the world.
来自巴西的埃尔克森(Elkeson)和穆里奇(Muriqui)都有上佳表现，但今年亚冠最出色的球员还是达里奥·孔卡(Darío Conca)。这名阿根廷球员于2011年夏天签约，据称他当时是世界薪酬排名第三的球员。
Conca may not have the global profile of Didier Drogba and Nicolas Anelka, who in 2012 signed in a blaze of publicity with Shanghai Shenhua only to leave shortly thereafter, but the Argentine playmaker has been consistently excellent in his time in China. Conca will return to Fluminense in the Brazilian league at the end of the year, and in the final game of the domestic season last weekend, he said goodbye to Guangzhou fans. After scoring, he lifted his shirt to reveal a message saying in Chinese, ‘‘Wherever I am, you will be in my heart.’’
孔卡或许没有像迪迪埃·德罗巴(Didier Drogba)和尼古拉斯·阿内尔卡(Nicolas Anelka)那样的全球知名度，后两位球员曾于2012年高调加盟上海申花，不久之后便离开了。不过，这名阿根廷球员在中国的表现一直很优秀。孔卡将于今年年底回到巴西联赛的弗鲁米嫩塞队，并且已经在上周的本赛季最后一场比赛中向广州球迷告别。在那场比赛当中进球之后，他脱去球衣，露出了内衣上的一句中文，“无论我身在何方，你们都在我心里。”
While Saturday will mark Conca’s last appearance in China, all hope that it will not be his last appearance in the red shirt.
虽然周六将是孔卡最后一次在中国露面，所有人都希望这不是他最后一次穿上红色球衣。
A victory over Seoul will give Guangzhou a spot in FIFA’s Club World Cup in December, and Conca has indicated he would delay his return to Brazil for a chance at the tournament and a possible showdown with the European titleholder, Bayern Munich.
假如能打败首尔，广州恒大就可以跻身12月的国际足联俱乐部世界杯(FIFA’s Club World Cup)。孔卡也已表示，如果能参加这个比赛，能有机会与欧洲冠军拜仁慕尼黑(Bayern Munich)一决胜负，他就会推迟回巴西的时间。
Asian teams have never reached the final of that tournament, but Guangzhou is helping to take Chinese and perhaps Asian soccer to the next level.
亚洲球队从未进入该赛事的决赛，但广州恒大有可能帮助中国乃至亚洲球队进入新的阶段。
‘‘If Guangzhou can keep going like this, it will be at the top of Asian soccer for years, and who knows what it can achieve?’’ Damjanovic said. ‘‘It is good for Asia. Guangzhou is pushing China, Korea and Japan and all of the continent to play better.’’
“如果能保持这样的表现，广州恒大就将在几年之内成为亚洲最强的球队，谁知道它会取得什么成就呢？”达姆扬诺维奇说。“这对亚洲有好处。广州恒大正在推动中国、韩国、日本和亚洲所有国家拿出更好的表现。”
This weekend, however, it is all about Guangzhou defeating Seoul. ‘‘Nobody in China imagines that Seoul will stop Guangzhou from becoming the Asian champion,’’ Troussier said. ‘‘China is a young soccer country with a lack of soccer culture, but when you see what people feel now as they wait for the big game, it means that soccer culture is on the way.’’
然而，本周末的重点在于广州恒大能打败首尔。“在中国，没人认为首尔能阻止广州恒大成为亚洲冠军，”特鲁西耶说。“中国是一个年轻的足球国家，缺乏足球文化，但你看看那些正在盼望这次重大比赛的人们的感受，就知道中国的足球文化即将来临。”