HONG KONG — This little piggy is going to the market after all.
香港——小猪最后还是要跑进市场的。
Three months after it scrapped plans for a $5.3 billion share sale in Hong Kong, China’s WH Group, the world’s biggest pork producer, is back with a leaner offering that will seek to raise about $2 billion.
三个月前，世界最大的猪肉生产企业中国万洲国际(WH Group)推迟了价值53亿美元（约合330亿元人民币）的在香港上市的计划。如今，它再次叩门股市，并将筹资目标降到了20亿美元。
WH Group was created last year after Shuanghui International of China paid $4.7 billion in cash for Smithfield Foods, the biggest pork producer in the United States. That deal remains the biggest-ever buyout of an American company by a Chinese one.
去年，中国双汇国际以47亿美元的现金买下了美国最大的猪肉企业史密斯菲尔德食品公司(Smithfield Foods)，万洲国际由此成立。这项交易仍然是中国企业收购美国企业的案例中规模最大的一次。
The enlarged group announced plans in April to raise as much as $5.3 billion in a Hong Kong initial public offering, a deal that was criticized as being bloated with an unprecedented 29 underwriters. The I.P.O. was later slashed to $1.9 billion before ultimately being canceled because of lackluster demand.
规模扩大后，集团于4月宣布要在香港进行IPO，计划筹资53亿美元。这一目标被批评过于夸大，而且交易中有29家投行为其承销，数量前所未见。随后，IPO金额缩减到了19亿美元，最后因为需求不足而取消。
Investors were put off by WH’s hefty debt levels, the I.P.O.’s steep asking price and the company’s decision to award its top two executives a combined $600 million bonus for 2013. On top of this, an outbreak of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus in the United States led to sharp increases in hog prices this spring, complicating WH’s plans to export pork from the United States to China.Now WH is trying again, hoping that a more modest fund-raising target, a cheaper valuation and only two underwriters — Morgan Stanley and Bank of China International — will help ensure success.
由于万洲国际负债累累，IPO要价夸张，再加上公司决定在2013年给它的两位最高管理者提供总计6亿美元的奖金，所以令投资者望而却步。除此以外，美国爆发猪痢疾，导致今年春季猪肉价格上涨，对万洲国际从美国进口猪肉到中国的计划造成了影响。如今，万洲国际再次尝试进行IPO，希望适度的融资目标、较低的估值，以及较少的承销商，只有摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)和中银国际两家——有助于上市成功。
The company plans to raise 15.9 billion Hong Kong dollars by selling 2.567 billion new shares, or an 18 percent stake, in an I.P.O. priced at 6.20 dollars per share, a person with direct knowledge of the deal said Tuesday, declining to be named because the information was not yet public. In April, the company had sought to sell the shares in a price range of 8 dollars to 11.25 dollars apiece.
周二，一名知情人士透露，该公司计划以每股6.2港元的价格进行IPO，出售25.67亿新股——相当于18%的股份，以此筹集159亿港元（约合127亿元人民币）。但由于信息尚未披露，这名知情人士要求匿名。今年4月，该公司试图以每股8至11.25港元的价格上市。