HONG KONG – Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties, China’s biggest developer of shopping centers, raised $3.7 billion on Tuesday in its initial public offering in Hong Kong, making it the largest listing in Asia this year.
香港——周二，中国最大的购物商场开发商大连万达商业地产在香港通过首次公开募股筹得37亿美元（约合229亿元人民币）资金，使之成为亚洲地区今年规模最大的上市交易。
The company, which is controlled by the Chinese billionaire Wang Jianlin, sold 600 million shares at 48 Hong Kong dollars, or $6.19, a share, according to two people familiar with the deal who were not authorized to speak publicly because the details were private. The shares were sold at the upper end of Dalian Wanda Commercial’s suggested pricing range of 41.80 to 49.60 dollars in marketing to investors that began last week, according to a term sheet.
据两名知情人士透露，中国亿万富翁王健林名下的万达商业地产在香港以每股48港元（约合38.3元人民币）的价格发售了6亿股份，由于交易细节不对外公布，两人没有获得公开发言的授权。合约细则显示，大连万达商业地产上周开始举行路演时将发行价区间定在每股41.8港元到49.6港元，最终以高价售股。
Dalian Wanda Commercial’s take of 28.8 billion dollars, or $3.7 billion, is the most money a real estate company has raised in the public markets, according to data from the financial information provider Dealogic. Global Logistics Property, a Singapore company, raised $3 billion in 2010.
根据金融数据公司迪罗基(Dealogic)提供的信息，大连万达商业地产共筹得288亿港元，成为在公开市场募得资金最多的房地产公司。新加坡公司普洛斯(Global Logistics Property)在2010年筹得30亿美元。
Dalian Wanda Commercial had received $2 billion in commitments from so-called cornerstone investors, including $250 million from the American hedge fund Och-Ziff Capital Management and $300 million each from the Kuwait Investment Authority and Ping An Insurance of China. The cornerstone investors had agreed to purchase as much as 62 percent of the shares and hold them for at least six months.
大连万达商业地产获得了所谓的基石投资者提供的20亿美元的资金，美国对冲基金奥氏资本管理公司(Och-Ziff Capital Management)认购了2.5亿美元的股票，科威特政府投资局(Kuwait Investment Authority)和中国平安保险则分别认购了3亿美元的股票。基石投资者同意认购最多达62%的股票，并承诺在至少六个月的时间内持股。
David Connolly, a spokesman for Dalian Wanda Commercial’s parent company, the Dalian Wanda Group, declined to comment.
该公司的母公司大连万达集团的发言人戴维·康诺利(David Connolly)拒绝置评。
The parent company was one of the first shareholding companies in China, incorporated in Dalian in 1992 under the leadership of Mr. Wang, a former army officer who is now 60.
现年60岁、曾是军官的王健林1992年在大连成立了万达集团，是中国首批股份制公司之一。
Dalian Wanda Commercial was set up in 2002, and its signature Wanda Plaza developments combine shopping malls, movie theaters, hotels, office buildings and apartment blocks. They are built in cookie-cutter fashion, sprouting up in cities across China. In October, the 100th Wanda Plaza opened in Kunming, in southwestern China. The company’s new Wanda Cities take the concept a step further, combining the features of a Wanda Plaza with Chinese-themed amusement parks and cultural attractions.
大连万达商业地产成立于2002年，其标志性的项目万达广场集购物中心、电影院、酒店、办公楼和公寓为一体。千篇一律的万达广场在中国各地拔地而起。今年10月，第100座万达广场在中国西南部城市昆明开业。该公司的新万达城进一步发展了这个理念，将万达广场的特色与中国主题的游乐场和文化景点结合起来。
The company said it would use part of the money raised in the offering to finance more mall developments.
公司表示，它将使用IPO中募集的部分资金来资助更多商场的发展。
The real estate slowdown in China has not clipped the pace of construction at Dalian Wanda Commercial. This year through August, the company had broken ground on 28 projects, putting it on track to surpass the record 38 projects started last year, according to its prospectus. The company is accelerating construction even as the slowdown in the property market is causing its revenue and profit to fall. Revenue fell 27 percent in the first half of the year from the period a year earlier, and profit fell 51.2 percent.
虽然中国房地产的发展开始减速，但是大连万达商业地产的建设速度并未因此受到影响。公司在招股说明书中表示，从今年年初到8月，公司共有28项工程破土动工，有望突破它去年开建的38项工程的记录。尽管房地产市场的增长放缓正在导致公司的收入和利润下降，但它仍然在加快建设速度。今年上半年，公司收益同比下降了27％，利润减少了51.2%。
At the same time, Dalian Wanda Commercial has added significant debt, with lending from banks and other financial institutions as well as bond sales rising to $27.8 billion as of the end of June, more than doubling since the end of 2011, according to the prospectus.
同时，招股说明书称，大连万达商业地产的债务也出现显著增加，截至6月底，公司从银行和其他金融机构借贷的资金，以及通过债券销售所筹集的资金增加到了278亿美元，与2011年年底相比，增加了超过一倍。
But Mr. Wang, the controlling shareholder, continues an acquisition binge, part of his desire for the company to become the world’s biggest commercial property developer. Dalian Wanda Commercial is constructing Western Europe’s tallest residential building on the Thames River in London, just upriver from the Houses of Parliament.
但是，持有控制权的股东王健林仍然在继续他的收购狂潮，这在一定程度上是因为他希望公司能成为世界上最大的商业地产开发商。大连万达商业地产正在伦敦的泰晤士河畔建设西欧最高的住宅楼，这栋建筑刚好位于英国国会大厦(Houses of Parliament)的上游。