The Dalian Wanda Group of China, privately controlled by the billionaire Wang Jianlin, said Wednesday that it would invest 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to build a luxury hotel and apartment complex in London and acquire the British yacht maker Sunseeker International.
周三，由亿万富翁王健林掌控的中国大连万达集团表示将斥资10亿英镑（约合96亿元人民币），在伦敦修建豪华的酒店和公寓楼，及并购英国游艇制造商圣汐国际(Sunseeker International)。
Dalian Wanda, which last year paid $2.6 billion for AMC Entertainment, an American operator of cinema chains, said the two British investments would further its goal of expanding beyond the Chinese real estate market and into the overseas luxury, entertainment and tourism industries.
大连万达表示，在英国的这两项投资将进一步实现它走出中国房地产市场，进军海外奢侈品、娱乐和旅游业的目标。大连万达去年出资26亿美元（约合160亿元人民币）收购了美国连锁影院运营商AMC娱乐(AMC Entertainment)。
The company will pay 320 million pounds for a 91.8 percent stake in Sunseeker, whose high-end motor yachts have been featured in several recent James Bond films.
大连万达将出资3.2亿英镑收购圣汐91.8%的股份。最近几部詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)的电影中都出现了圣汐制造的高端机动游艇。
‘‘With the committed support of Wanda, Sunseeker is well placed to take full advantage of opportunities in China, one of the world’s fastest-growing luxury yacht markets,’’ Mr. Wang said in a statement Wednesday.
“在万达的全力支持下，圣汐将能够充分利用中国的机遇，这里是全世界豪华游艇增长最快的市场之一，”王健林在周三的一份声明中说。
At the same time, Dalian Wanda announced that it would spend 700 million pounds building a luxury Wanda Hotel on the South Bank in London, the company’s first hotel outside China. The site, covering 105,000 square meters, or 1.1 million square feet, and with views of the River Thames, Westminster Palace and Battersea Power Station, will include a 20,000-square-meter, 160-room hotel as well as 63,000 square meters of upscale apartments.
同时，大连万达宣布将投资7亿英镑在伦敦南岸修建一座豪华的万达酒店，这将是万达在海外的首家酒店。项目占地10.5万平方米，能够一览泰晤士河、威斯敏斯特宫(Westminster Palace)和巴特西发电站(Battersea Power Station)，将包括一家建筑面积为2万平方米的酒店，拥有160间客房，以及6.3万平方米的高档公寓。
Dalian Wanda said the hotel project had already received planning consent, and, in a statement, the company quoted London’s mayor, Boris Johnson, as saying city officials had ‘‘worked tirelessly with Dalian Wanda Group to secure this cracking deal.’’
大连万达表示，酒店项目已经获得了规划许可。该公司在一份声明中引用伦敦市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)的话说，伦敦市的官员“已经同大连万达集团进行了不懈的合作，以确保这项宏大交易的完成”。
Puji Capital served as financial adviser to Dalian Wanda on the Sunseeker acquisition. Ernst & Young was also an adviser, and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer acted as legal counsel.
在收购圣汐股份的交易中，普济资本是大连万达的财务顾问。安永(Ernst & Young)也担任万达的顾问，富尔德律师事务所(Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer)则是其法律顾问。