HONG KONG — Dalian Wanda Group of China said Thursday that it may privatize its commercial property company in a deal that could be worth about $4 billion.
香港——周四，中国大连万达集团表示拟对旗下的万达商业地产公司启动私有化，估值约40亿美元。
The potential delisting of Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties comes just 15 months after it raised $3.7 billion in a Hong Kong initial public offering — the largest listing in Asia for 2014. The company did not say why it had decided to think about privatizing so soon after going public.
2014年，万达商业地产在香港的公开募股(IPO)为当时亚洲最大规模，筹集到了37亿美元。短短15个月后便可能退市。为何在上市后如此短时间内考虑私有化，万达没有对此做出解释。
The group said in a news release on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange that it would offer no less than 48 Hong Kong dollars a share, or about $6.20 a share. That would be almost 24 percent higher than the price at which the stock closed on Wednesday.
万达集团在一份港交所的公告中说，它将提供每股不低于48港元的收购价格，约合每股6.20美元。此价格比周三的收盘现价高出近24％。
Dalian Wanda shares, which had sunk well below their initial offer price, were bolstered by the news and leapt about 20 percent on Thursday morning. By lunchtime, they were up about 18 percent, at $45.85.
受此消息刺激，原本低于发行价的万达商业股价在周四上午大涨近20%。截至中午，股价涨幅约18%，达到每股45.85港元。
The property unit was set up in 2002 and spread across China, building developments that combined shopping centers, theaters, hotels, offices and residential blocks. But China’s economy is now being dragged down by a housing glut, and real estate investment has nearly come to a standstill after more than a decade of double-digit growth.
万达商业地产公司创立于2002年，业务遍布整个中国，开发项目综合购物中心，影院，酒店，写字楼和住宅区。然而，目前住房过剩正在拖累着中国经济。在保持两位数增长10余年后，房地产投资已经几乎陷入了停滞。
Fitch Ratings downgraded the company in February, saying in a note that “The downgrade reflects our expectation that Wanda’s development properties’ (DP) contracted sales in 2016 and 2017 will fall to a level not sufficient to support its ongoing capex plans and development expenditure.”
2月，惠誉评级公司(Fitch Ratings)下调了对万达商业的评级，表示“这次下调反映了我们的预期，即2016年万达的开发项目销售额将有所下降，并在2017年持续下跌，达到无法充分支持其资本支出计划和开发费用的水平”。
The parent Dalian Wanda Group, however, has been busy investing far and wide in the film industry. It announced in January that it was buying Legendary Entertainment, one of Hollywood’s biggest film production companies, for as much as $3.5 billion. It had also snapped up the theater chain AMC Theaters and begun construction of an $8.2 billion studio complex.
然而，母公司大连万达集团已经忙于在电影产业进行长远且广泛的投资。1月，万达集团宣布斥资35亿美元收购好莱坞最大的电影发行公司之一——传奇影业。此外，它还收购了AMC院线，并开始建造一个价值82亿美元的影视产业基地。