Hillary Clinton’s closest aide, Huma Abedin, said Monday that she intended to separate from her husband, Anthony D. Weiner, the former congressman and New York City mayoral candidate, after it was reported that Weiner had exchanged suggestive images and messages with a woman while the couple’s young child was beside him.
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)最亲密的幕僚胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)周一表示，她打算与曾是联邦众议员和纽约市长候选人的丈夫安东尼·D·韦纳(Anthony D. Weiner)分居。在这之前，有报道称，韦纳曾在年幼的孩子就在身旁的情况下，与一名女子互发有挑逗意味的图片和短信。
The separation was announced after Weiner’s online exchanges with women had been a source of tension within Clinton’s presidential campaign. Weiner resigned from Congress in 2011 after revelations that he had sent lewd images of himself to women on social media. The couple’s marital problems worsened after the release in May of a documentary about the scandal that engulfed Weiner’s campaign for mayor in 2013.
分居的消息公布前，韦纳在网上与多名女性进行此类交流的事情一直是给克林顿总统竞选阵营内部带来关系紧张的一个原因。2011年，韦纳在被爆出在社交媒体上向女性发送自己的不雅照后辞任众议员。今年5月，一部纪录片的发行导致夫妻二人的婚姻问题进一步恶化。该片的主题是那起断送韦纳2013年的市长竞选的丑闻。
Abedin released a statement on Monday after the New York Post reported that Weiner had traded sexual messages with an unidentified woman last year while their 5-year-old son, Jordan, appeared to be asleep beside him.
这一次，《纽约邮报》(New York Post)报道，去年在5岁的儿子乔丹(Jordan)看起来就睡在他身旁的情况下，韦纳与一名身份不明的女子互发含有性意味的短信。于是，阿贝丁于周一发表了声明。
“After long and painful consideration and work on my marriage, I have made the decision to separate from my husband,” she said in the statement. “Anthony and I remain devoted to doing what is best for our son, who is the light of our life. During this difficult time, I ask for respect for our privacy.”
“在对我的婚姻进行了漫长而痛苦的考量和努力后，我决定与丈夫分居，”她在声明中说。“安东尼和我依然会竭力维护我们儿子的最佳利益，他是我们的生命之光。在这段困难时期，我请求大家尊重我们的隐私。”
But Abedin’s separation quickly became political fodder for Donald Trump, Clinton’s Republican opponent.
不过，阿贝丁的分居声明很快就成了克林顿的共和党对手唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的政治口实。
“Huma is making a very wise decision,” he said in a statement. “I know Anthony Weiner well, and she will be far better off without him.”
“胡玛做了一个非常明智的决定，”他在声明中表示。“我很了解安东尼·韦纳，离开他胡玛的生活会变得好很多。”
Trump also said the episode was an issue of national security.
特朗普还称此事是一个国家安全问题。
“I only worry for the country in that Hillary Clinton was careless and negligent in allowing Weiner to have such close proximity to highly classified information,” he continued.
“我只是为国家担心，希拉里·克林顿居然这么粗心大意，让韦纳如此接近高度机密的信息，”他接着说。
Abedin, 40, has been at Clinton’s side for two decades. She was her intern in the 1990s during the presidency of Bill Clinton and became a top aide while Hillary Clinton served as a senator from New York. Abedin, now vice chairwoman of the campaign, served on both of Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaigns — a mark of loyalty and trust that Clinton prizes — and is often referred to as a surrogate daughter.
现年40岁的阿贝丁担任克林顿的幕僚已长达20年。90年代比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)担任总统期间，她是希拉里·克林顿的实习生。希拉里·克林顿担任纽约州联邦参议员时，她出任高级顾问。现在，她是克林顿竞选团队的副主席。希拉里·克林顿的两次总统竞选，她都参与其中——这是克林顿非常重视的忠诚和信任的标志——并且常被称作克林顿夫妇的养女。