BEIJING — When Ms. Wang, a 39-year-old from Shanghai, discovered texts on her husband’s phone that suggested he was having an affair with one of his employees, she was distraught. “I couldn’t sleep at night and couldn’t stop crying,” she said. “I was very hurt.”
北京——现年39岁的王女士来自上海。她在丈夫的手机上看到表明其与手下一名员工有染的短信时，感到悲痛欲绝。“那时候我整晚整晚睡不着觉，一直哭，”她说。“心里特别难受。”
She decided to take action, though perhaps not in the expected way. Rather than confronting her husband, she searched online for a “mistress dispeller.’’
她决定采取行动，但用的是出人意料的方法。她没跟丈夫对峙，而是到网上搜索“小三劝退师”。
Mistress dispellers specialize in ending affairs between married men and their extramarital lovers. Typically hired by a scorned wife, they coach the women on how to save their marriages, while inducing the mistress to disappear.
小三劝退师专门致力于终结已婚男性与其婚外情人之间的情事。他们通常受雇于怒恨满腔的正室夫人，会教导她们如何保住自己的婚姻，并将小三劝退。
After searching on Baidu, a Chinese search engine, Ms. Wang decided to hire Weiqing International Marriage Hospital Emotion Clinic Group, a mistress-dispelling service in Shanghai. “I looked at some cases on their websites and didn’t know if I should trust them,’’ she said. “But I felt I had no other options, so I thought, why not try it?”
王女士在中文搜索引擎百度上搜索了一番，决定雇用维情国际婚姻医院情感诊所，它是上海的一家提供小三劝退服务的机构。“我其实也是抱着将信将疑的态度，就在网上不停看他们的案例，”她说。“但我那时候也实在是没有其他办法了，就想说要不试试吧。”
Weiqing eventually ended the affair, she said, by persuading the other woman to take a higher-paying job in another city. “I don’t care how that woman is living now,’’ Ms. Wang said. “I just feel relieved that my husband is back.’’
维情最终帮忙结束了她丈夫的婚外情，她说，用的办法是说服第三者前往另一座城市从事薪水更高的工作。“我一点都不在乎那女的现在怎么样，”她说。 “老公回来了，我觉得就好了。”
Ms. Wang, who was recommended by Weiqing to be interviewed for this article, declined to give her full name, saying she wanted to protect her family’s privacy.
经由维情介绍接受采访的王女士拒绝透露全名，说她想要保护家庭隐私。
Mistress dispelling typically begins with research on the targeted woman, said Shu Xin, Weiqing’s director. An investigation team — often including a psychotherapist and, to keep on the safe side, a lawyer — analyzes her family, friends, education and job before sending in a “counselor.’’
维情的导师之一舒心说，劝退小三要从研究目标女子开始。一个调查团队——通常包括一名情感治疗师，为了安全起见，还会包括一名律师——在派出一名“顾问”之前，会分析她的家庭、朋友、教育经历和工作状况。
“Once we figure out what type of mistress she is — in it for money, love or sex — we draw up a plan,” Mr. Shu said.
“只要我们分析出了她是哪一种类型的情妇，是为了钱，为了爱，还是为了性的，我们就可以找到应对的方案，”舒心说。
The counselor might move into the mistress’s apartment building or start working out at her gym, getting to know her, becoming her confidante and eventually turning her feelings against her partner. Sometimes, the counselor finds her a new lover, a job opening in another city or otherwise convinces her to leave the married man. Weiqing and some other agencies said its counselors were prohibited from becoming intimately involved with the mistress or from using or threatening violence.
顾问或许会搬进小三住的公寓楼，或者开始在她常去的健身房里锻炼，逐渐与她熟识起来，成为她的知己，最终诱导她对情人产生不满。有时候，顾问会帮她觅得一个新情人，帮她在另一座城市找到一个工作机会，或者以其他方式说服她离开已婚男子。维情和其他一些机构称，顾问不得和情妇建立性关系，也不得使用或扬言使用暴力。
Kang Na, who runs a mistress-dispelling service called the Reunion Company in the southern city of Shenzhen, said he recruited male counselors from his own social circle. They are chosen for their attractive looks and personality, he said. He then trains them to avoid detection and to navigate complex emotional situations.
康纳在南方城市深圳经营着一家小三劝退机构，名为破镜重圆文化传播有限公司。他说公司的男性顾问是他在自己的社交圈里招募的，筛选标准是外表和个性具有吸引力。随后他会开展培训，教他们如何避免被识破，如何游刃有余地应对复杂的情感状况。
While the counselor goes to work, the mistress-dispelling service advises the wife on how to make herself more attractive to her husband.
在顾问出动之际，小三劝退机构会给妻子提出建议，告诉她如何增强对丈夫的吸引力。
“We want to disrupt conventional ways of thinking,” Mr. Kang said. “Chinese women think that if you treat men well, they’ll love you more. But often, we men love the people who hurt us the most.”
“我们想要打破传统的思维方式，”康纳说。“中国女人认为，只要你对男人好，他们就会更爱你。但我们男人爱的常常是把我们伤得最深的人。”
One response to marital infidelity is, of course, divorce. A study of 500 divorced couples by the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences found that extramarital affairs had played a role in more than 40 percent of the breakups.
面对婚姻中的不忠，人们的一个反应显然是离婚。上海社会科学院一项针对500对离异夫妇的研究显示，婚外情是促使40%的夫妇分道扬镳的一个因素。
But divorce can be costly, especially for women. Aside from the social stigma that falls more heavily on women, family property and finances in China tend to be registered in the husband’s name. A divorced woman can find herself homeless, adding to the pressure of taking measures to save the marriage.
但离婚的代价可能颇为高昂，对女性则尤其如此。离异对女性而言是更大的社会污点，此外，中国家庭的房产和资金常常登记在丈夫名下。女性离婚后可能无家可归，这让她们面临着更大的想方设法保全婚姻的压力。
But many Chinese men resist discussing marital problems with marriage counselors or other outside professionals, said Tang Yinghong, a psychologist and columnist based in Leshan, Sichuan Province. “Husbands in China still hold the traditional view that a family’s dirty laundry should not be aired publicly,’’ Mr. Tang said. With that option closed, he said, “Many wives would rather turn to a mistress dispeller behind their husbands’ back.’’ Ideally, the husband never finds out why his mistress left him.
但四川乐山的心理学者兼专栏作者唐映红说，许多中国男性不愿和婚姻顾问或外界的其他专业人士探讨婚姻问题。“中国男人始终有一种很传统的观念，就是家丑不可外扬，”唐映红说。既然此路不通，他说，“很多老婆在这种情况下就宁愿背着老公去找小三劝退师。”理想情况下，丈夫永远也不会知道小三为何离开他。
The services are not cheap. Mr. Kang charges a base fee of 300,000 renminbi, about $45,000, but he said that costs can mount if counselors need to rent expensive apartments or cars to endear themselves to the mistresses. Clients usually pay half the fee in advance and the balance once the case is successfully concluded. Mr. Kang said the balance is waived if the mistress is not dispelled, but he put his success rate at 90 percent, in part because he only takes on cases he thinks can be solved.
这类服务并不便宜。康纳的基本收费标准是30万人民币，约合4.5万美元，但他表示，如果顾问需要租下昂贵的公寓或汽车，以便获得小三的青睐，费用还会增加。客户通常要预付一半款项，等到事情办成后再缴齐余款。康纳说，如果没能将小三劝退，就拿不到余款，但他说自己的成功率为90%，部分原因是他只承接在他看来有办法解决的案子。
Ms. Wang said her parents had provided the money for Weiqing’s fee.
王女士说，她支付给维情的款项是她父母出的。
The companies say it typically takes about three months to dispel a mistress. Yu Feng, director of the Chongqing Jialijiawai Marriage and Family Service Center, said his team has dispelled 260 in the last two years.
这些公司称，劝退一名小三通常要花三个月的时间。重庆家里家外婚姻家庭咨询中心主任瑜峰说，他的团队在过去两年里劝退了260名小三。
Mistress dispellers are viewed unfavorably by many traditional marriage counselors.
很多传统的婚姻顾问都对小三劝退师持有负面态度。
“This kind of service won’t really bring a family back together,” said Liu Weimin, director of the Guangdong Province Marriage and Family Counselors Association, a professional organization based in Shenzhen. “These problems need to be solved between the husband and wife.”
“小三劝退是不可能真正使一个家庭回归的，” 深圳一家专业机构——广东省婚姻家庭咨询师协会的会长刘伟民说， “这种问题只能在丈夫和妻子之间解决。”
Still, the companies say they are growing. Weiqing said it started in 2001 with two counselors in Shanghai and had since expanded to 370 counselors in 59 cities. Last year, the company said, it had 10,000 clients, up from 8,000 the year before.
但小三劝退公司称，它们正在发展壮大。维情说，它创办于2001年，当时只在上海有两名顾问，此后不断扩张，目前在59个城市有370名顾问。该公司称其客户数量从前年的8000名增加到了去年的1万名。
Mr. Kang, the Guangzhou-based consultant, said he received about 176 inquiries a day, up from 96 a day in 2015.
广东的咨询师康纳说，他现在每天大约会收到176个咨询请求，高于2015年的每天96个。
To sustain growth, however, some mistress dispellers have begun looking abroad. Mr. Kang said he had begun focusing more on overseas Chinese.
不过，为了维持增长，一些小三劝退师已经把目光投向了海外。康纳说他开始更加关注海外华人市场了。
About one in eight of his customers are ethnic Chinese women living outside the mainland, he said, adding that he was preparing to start English-language services for non-Chinese clients in Europe and North America by opening a call center based in the Philippines.
他说自己的客户每八个中就有一个是居住在中国大陆以外地区的华裔女性。他还说，正准备在菲律宾开设一个呼叫中心，针对欧洲和北美的非华人客户推出英语服务。
“We began by servicing Chinese,’’ Mr. Kang said. “But we’ve discovered in the course of our work that it’s not just our own people who have these problems. Everyone does.”
“我们一开始是为华人服务，”康纳说。“但我们在开展业务的过程中发现，不只是华人面临着这些问题。人人都一样。”