BEIJING — After three days of torrid heat in Beijing, with thermometer readings in the upper 90s Fahrenheit, the air in the city’s concrete canyons and on its giant ring roads has cooled a little, to 95. Enough for city officials to drop the health warning they had posted on Sunday, as they do whenever temperatures exceed that threshold.
北京——北京经历了三天的酷热，温度计的读数直奔40摄氏度。然后，混凝土峡谷之间及恢弘的环路上的空气似乎冷却了一点，降到了35度，足以让市政府撤销了周日发布的健康警告。每当温度超过35度阈值的时候，他们就会发出这种警告。
Sure, it is not the heat of the deserts of Rajasthan in India, where temperatures in May crackled to 123.8 degrees. But the air in Beijing and other parts of China can reach 106 in the summer, and work rarely stops on the 24-hour construction sites even under these “bamboo steamer” conditions, as The Beijing Evening News described them.
当然，北京没有印度拉贾斯坦邦的沙漠那么热，今年5月那里的温度高达51度。不过，根据《北京晚报》的报道，北京和中国其他一些地区的夏季气温可以达到42度，但即使在这种类似“蒸笼”的条件下，一些24小时施工的建筑工地也很少停工。
China has something rare to address the problem. By law, many people who work outdoors are eligible for a heat subsidy when temperatures go above 95, or 35 degrees Celsius — a pay supplement that in Beijing amounts to 180 renminbi a month, or $27, China News Service reported. 
中国用一种罕见的办法来应对这个问题。中国新闻网报道，根据法律规定，当温度超过35摄氏度的时候，很多在户外工作的人就有资格享受高温补贴——在北京，这种补贴的标准是每个月180元人民币。
Employers do not always give the money, and workers may not know about it or may fear losing their jobs if they ask, said a business and legal consultancy based in Shanghai.
总部设在上海的一家业务和法律咨询公司称，雇主并不总是按规定支付这笔钱，员工也许不知道有这种补贴，或者可能担心，要是自己向雇主讨要，就会失去工作。
“Employees have the right to file a complaint if an employer fails to pay, but rarely do in fear of repercussions,” reported China Briefing, a newsletter of the consultancy, Dezan Shira & Associates. “In many cases, employees aren’t even aware of the allowance.”
“如果雇主不发高温补贴，雇员有权提出申诉，但他们很少这么做，担心导致不利后果，”协力管理咨询公司(Dezan Shira & Associates)的新闻通讯服务China Briefing称。“有很多时候，雇员甚至不知道有这笔津贴”。
Several people in Beijing who work on contract, or without any contract, laughed when asked whether they had received the subsidy, as temperatures soared this week.
当被问及本周气温飙升期间是否拿到了补贴时，几名在北京工作的工人笑了起来，他们中有些签了合同，有些没有签。
“Who gets that?!” asked one man, in a typical response.
“有谁拿到了？！”有一个人问。这是很典型的反应。
In the face of global warming and rising temperatures that are affecting human health and productivity worldwide, might the Chinese practice, which aims to protect people’s health, catch on? Could such subsidies become a cost of doing business in a hotter world?
在世界各地，全球变暖和温度日益上升对人类健康和生产力产生了影响。既然如此，中国用高温补贴来保护大家健康的做法，会流行起来吗？当世界变得更热，这种补贴可能成为做生意的一种成本吗？
While there is some public discussion in China about the long-term human or economic implications of global warming, in general the implications of rising heat are poorly studied, wrote Rui-Dan Chen, a scientist at Sun Yat-sen University in the southern city of Guangzhou, and Ri-Yu Lu at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing, in a recent review of published material on extreme heat in the journal Atmospheric and Oceanic Science Letters. The authors defined extreme heat as temperatures that exceeded 95 degrees.
虽然在中国，人们也对全球变暖对人类或经济的长期影响进行了一些公开讨论，但广州中山大学的科学家陈锐丹以及北京中国科学院的陆日宇近日在《大气和海洋科学快报》(Atmospheric and Oceanic Science Letters)上发表的一篇综述文章写道，总体而言，中国关于升温影响的研究非常少。他们把超过35摄氏度定义为极端高温，全面回顾了已经发表的关于这方面的文献。
China, like everywhere else, is experiencing those rising temperatures and also rising deaths related to heat, the authors said, quoting the World Meteorological Organization. During the decade ending in 2010, they said, 136,000 deaths were caused by heat waves, an increase of 2,300 percent over the 6,000 deaths recorded in the previous decade.
作者引用世界气象组织 (World Meteorological Organization)的资料称，在中国，像在其他地方一样，气温不断上升，与高温有关的死亡案例也在增加。在截至2010年的十年中，有13.6万人因热浪死亡，而之前十年的这个数字为6000人，增幅达2300%。
“Extreme heat events have become an important public concern,” the authors wrote. But far more attention is paid to “precipitation extremes,” they said, “possibly due to the long history of China as a traditional agricultural country.”
作者写道，“极端高温事件逐渐成为公众关注的一个重要焦点。”但人们对“极端降水事件”的关注远远更多，他们说，“可能是因为中国是一个历史悠久的传统农业国。”
China has a record of flooding along its rivers, especially in the center and south of the country, and leaders regularly appear at major floods to demonstrate support for rescue efforts.
中国河流的洪涝灾害比较常见，尤其是在中心和南部地区。发生大洪水时领导人常常会出面，显示对救援工作的支持。
Despite the patchy enforcement of the regulations, the government appears to be trying to raise consciousness of the heat subsidies, not least among foreign employers who may need to pay them to their workers.
尽管高温补贴的条例执行不力，政府似乎正在设法提高这方面的意识，尤其是针对可能需要向雇员支付补贴的外国雇主。
In an article in June in its “Learning Chinese” section, the state-run newspaper Global Times offered the following dialogue about the subsidies:
官方报纸《环球时报》在“学汉语”栏目6月发表的一篇文章中，刊登了下面这段关于高温补贴的对话：
“It’s way too hot today! Too bad, I still have to work,” “A” said.
A：“今天太热了！可惜我还得上班。”
“Don’t let it get you down,” “B” urged. “Workers that work during sweltering summer days have a right to a ‘high heat subsidy’!”
B：“别闷闷不乐了，酷暑时期上班，可享受高温补贴哦！”
The amounts vary across the country. Shanxi Province, in the north, offers 240 renminbi a month, while Guangdong, in the far south, provides a relatively low 150 renminbi, according to China News Service.
地区不同，补贴的金额也不同。中国新闻网表示，在北部省份山西，高温补贴一个月有240元人民币，南部省份广东只有150元。
Some provinces mandate complex calculations based on daily, or even hourly, rates and temperatures, an exercise that might cause anyone trying to figure it out to break into a sweat.
一些省份根据温度和日薪、乃至时薪进行复杂的计算，任何人想要算清楚可能都会出一身汗。