WASHINGTON — Bill Clinton found him to be cold and worrisome, but predicted he would be a tough and able leader. George W. Bush wanted to make him a friend and partner in the war on terror, but grew disillusioned over time.
比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)认为他是个冷酷且会找麻烦的人，但预言他会是个强硬、能干的领导人。乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)想在反恐战争的问题上让他扮演朋友和合作伙伴的角色，但他的希望随着时间的推移也最终破灭。
Barack Obama tried working around him by building up his protégé in the Kremlin, an approach that worked for a time but steadily deteriorated to the point that relations between Russia and the United States are now at their worst point since the end of the Cold War.
贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)试着通过逐步在克里姆林宫内积聚“盟友”的方法进行变通。该方法一度奏效，但逐渐失效，直到现在美俄关系达到了冷战结束以来最糟糕的境地。
For 15 years, Vladimir V. Putin has confounded American presidents as they tried to figure him out, only to misjudge him time and again. He has defied their assumptions and rebuffed their efforts at friendship. He has argued with them, lectured them, misled them, accused them, kept them waiting, kept them guessing, betrayed them and felt betrayed by them.
15年中，弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)困扰着想把他琢磨明白的历任美国总统，使他们一次次地对他下错判断。他不遵从对他的假设，断然拒绝他们示好的努力。跟他们吵过架，给他们上过课，误导过他们，指责过他们，让他们等待过、猜疑过，背叛过他们，也曾感觉被他们所背叛。
Each of the three presidents tried in his own way to forge a historic if elusive new relationship with Russia, only to find their efforts torpedoed by the wiry martial arts master and former K.G.B. colonel. They imagined him to be something he was not or assumed they could manage a man who refuses to be managed. They saw him through their own lens, believing he viewed Russia’s interests as they thought he should. And they underestimated his deep sense of grievance.
三任总统都曾经用各自不同的方法，试图与俄罗斯营造一个难以言传但却具有历史意义的崭新关系，但发现他们的努力在这位精瘦的武术高手和前克格勃上校面前全是白费。他们要么一厢情愿地把普京想象成另一个样子，要么自以为可以控制一个拒绝被掌控的人。他们通过自己的视角来审视他，以为普京会以他们设想的方式来考虑俄罗斯的利益。他们还低估了他强烈的不满。
To the extent that there were any illusions left in Washington, and it is hard to imagine there were by this point, they were finally and irrevocably shattered by Mr. Putin’s takeover of Crimea and the exchange of sanctions that has followed. As Russian forces now mass on the Ukrainian border, the debate has now shifted from how to work with Mr. Putin to how to counter him.
在某种程度上来说，现在华盛顿已经不对他抱有任何幻想。那些幻想最终不可避免地被普京对克里米亚的占领，和随后的相互制裁所打破。俄罗斯军队现在集结在乌克兰边境，当下争论的焦点从如何与他共事变成了如何与他对抗。
“He’s declared himself,” said Tom Donilon, President Obama’s former national security adviser. “That’s who you have to deal with. Trying to wish it away is not a policy.”
“他已经表明了他的态度，”奥巴马总统的前国家安全顾问汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)说。“这就是我们要应付的人。希望这些问题自己消失不是方法。”
Looking back now, aides to all three presidents offer roughly similar takes: Their man was hardly naïve about Mr. Putin and saw him for what he was, but felt there was little choice other than to try to establish a better relationship. It may be that some of their policies hurt the chances of that by fueling Mr. Putin’s discontent, whether it was NATO expansion, the Iraq war or the Libya war, but in the end, they said, they were dealing with a Russian leader fundamentally at odds with the West.
往前追溯，三任总统的助手们给出了大致相同的说法：他们的上司并不天真，也意识到了普京的本来面目，但认为除了试图建立一个更好的关系，并没有什么其他出路。也许是他们出台的一些政策激化了普京的不满，不论是北约(NATO)的扩张，伊拉克战争，抑或是利比亚战争。但他们表示，最后发现自己在与一个从根本上和西方完全对立的俄罗斯领导人较量。
“I know there’s been some criticism on, was the reset ill advised?” said Mr. Donilon, using the Obama administration’s term for its policy. “No, the reset wasn’t ill advised. The reset resulted in direct accomplishments that were in the interests of the United States.”
“我知道有一些批评的声音，质疑两国关系的重启是否失策，”多尼隆说，他在这里用到了奥巴马政府对其策略的专用词汇。“不，重启并非失策。重启的结果有一些使美国直接受益。”
Some specialists said Mr. Obama and his two predecessors saw what they wanted to see. “The West has focused on the notion that Putin is a pragmatic realist who will cooperate with us whenever there are sufficient common interests,” said James M. Goldgeier, dean of international studies at American University. “We let that belief overshadow his stated goal of revising a post-Cold War settlement in which Moscow lost control over significant territory and watched as the West expanded its domain.”
一些专家称，奥巴马和他的两位前任都只看到他们想要看到的东西。“西方社会观念认为普京是一个务实的现实主义者，只要有足够的共同利益，他就会愿意合作，”美国大学(American University)国际研究学教授詹姆斯·M·戈德盖尔(James M. Goldgeier)说。“我们被这一说法所蒙蔽，忘了普京的实际目的是修改冷战后的国际秩序。莫斯科在该秩序中失去了对重要领土的控制，并眼睁睁看着西方国家在扩张领地。”
After 15 years, no one in Washington still thinks of Mr. Putin as a partner. “He goes to bed at night thinking of Peter the Great and he wakes up thinking of Stalin,” Representative Mike Rogers, the Republican chairman of the House intelligence committee, said on “Meet the Press” on NBC on Sunday. “We need to understand who he is and what he wants. It may not fit with what we believe of the 21st century.”
15年后，华盛顿没有人再将普京看做合作伙伴。“他睡觉前想着彼得大帝(Peter the Great)，醒来时想着斯大林(Stalin)，”众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)共和党主席迈克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)周日在美国全国广播公司(NBC)《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)节目中说。“我们需要明白他是谁，他想要干什么。与我们对21世纪的设想可能不是一回事。”
Bush’s Disillusionment
布什的幻灭
Mr. Clinton was the first president to encounter Mr. Putin, although they did not overlap for long. He had spent much of his presidency building a strong relationship with President Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Putin’s predecessor, and gave the benefit of the doubt to the handpicked successor who became Russia’s prime minister in 1999 and president on New Year’s Eve.
克林顿是第一位要面对普京的美国总统，尽管他们同时在任的时间不长。他在担任总统的大部分时间里与俄罗斯前总统里斯·N·叶利钦(Boris N. Yeltsin)建立了稳固的关系。叶利钦选择相信他亲自挑选的继任者。普京在1999年成为俄罗斯总理，新年前夜成为总统。
“I came away from the meeting believing Yeltsin had picked a successor who had the skills and capacity for hard work necessary to manage Russia’s turbulent political and economic life better than Yeltsin now could, given his health problems,” Mr. Clinton wrote in his memoir. When Mr. Putin’s selection was ratified in a March 2000 election, Mr. Clinton called to congratulate him and, as he later wrote, “hung up the phone thinking he was tough enough to hold Russia together.”
“在结束会面离开的时候，我的想法是相信叶利钦选择了一位有能力、勤奋的继任者，能比他自己更好地应对动荡的俄罗斯政治和经济现状，毕竟当时叶利钦的健康状况有问题，”克林顿在他的回忆录中写道。当普京在2000年3月的选举中当选后，克林顿致电向他表示了祝贺，他后来写道，“挂了电话，我就在想普京的坚韧能将俄罗斯团结在一起。”
Mr. Clinton had his worries, though, particularly as Mr. Putin waged a brutal war in the separatist republic of Chechnya and cracked down on independent media. He privately urged Mr. Yeltsin to watch over his successor. Mr. Clinton also felt brushed off by Mr. Putin, who seemed uninterested in doing business with a departing American president.
但克林顿也有他自己的担忧，尤其当普京对分裂情绪高涨的车臣共和国发动残酷战争，以及打压独立媒体后。他曾私下力劝叶利钦提防他的继任者。克林顿还感受到了普京对他的冷落，他似乎对与即将离任的美国总统打交道并不感兴趣。
Mr. Bush came to office skeptical of Mr. Putin, privately calling him “one cold dude,” but bonded with him during their first meeting in Slovenia in June 2001, after which he made his now-famous comment about looking into the Russian’s soul. Mr. Putin had made a connection with the religious Mr. Bush by telling him a story about a cross that his mother had given him and how it was the only thing that survived a fire at his country house.
布什就任的时候就对普京心存怀疑，私下称他是“一个冷酷的家伙”。但2001年6月，双方在斯洛文尼亚举行首次会晤，布什发表了现在广为人知的评价，称自己看到了这个俄国人的灵魂，随后两人建立起了融洽的关系。为了联络感情，普京给有虔诚信仰的布什讲了一个故事，是关于他母亲给他一个十字架的故事，这个十字架是他的乡间住所着火后唯一幸存的东西。
Not everyone was convinced. Mr. Bush’s vice president, Dick Cheney, privately told people at the time that when he saw Mr. Putin, “I think K.G.B., K.G.B., K.G.B.” But Mr. Bush was determined to erase the historical divide and courted Mr. Putin during the Russian leader’s visits to Camp David and Mr. Bush’s Texas ranch.
但并不是每个人都相信这一套。布什的副总统迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)曾私下告诉别人，看到普京的时候，“我想的都是克格勃，克格勃，克格勃。”但布什下定决心要抹去历史遗留的隔阂，在这位俄罗斯领导人访问戴维营和布什在德克萨斯的牧场期间都积极示好。
Mr. Putin liked to brag that he was the first foreign leader to call Mr. Bush after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and he permitted American troops into Central Asia as a base of operations against Afghanistan.
普京喜欢炫耀他是2001年9月11日恐怖袭击事件后第一个给布什打电话的外国领导人，而且他准许美国军队进入中亚，将中亚当作针对阿富汗的行动基地。
But Mr. Putin never felt Mr. Bush delivered in return and the relationship strained over the Iraq War and the Kremlin’s accelerating crackdown on dissent at home. By Mr. Bush’s second term, the two were quarreling over Russian democracy, reaching a peak during a testy meeting in Slovakia in 2005.
但普京从没觉得布什带来了什么回报，两人关系因伊拉克战争及克里姆林宫对国内异议的加速镇压而陷入紧张状态。到了布什的第二任期，两人因为俄罗斯的民主制度产生了争执。2005年，在斯洛伐克举行的会议上，两人非常暴躁，争执达到顶峰。
“It was like junior high debating,” Mr. Bush complained later to Britain’s Prime Minister Tony Blair, according to notes of the conversation. Mr. Putin kept throwing Mr. Bush’s arguments back at him. “I sat there for an hour and 45 minutes and it went on and on,” Mr. Bush said. “At one point, the interpreter made me so mad that I nearly reached over the table and slapped the hell out of the guy. He had a mocking tone, making accusations about America.”
谈话记录显示，布什后来向英国首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)抱怨说，“就像是初中的辩论赛一样。”普京不断回击布什的观点。“我在那儿坐了1小时45分钟，没完没了地说，”布什说。“翻译一度让我十分抓狂，我差点就要越过桌子，狠狠地扇他一耳光。他说话的口气带着嘲讽，指责美国。”
He was even more frustrated by Mr. Putin a year later. “He’s not well-informed,” Bush told the visiting prime minister of Denmark in 2006. “It’s like arguing with an eighth-grader with his facts wrong.”
一年之后，他对普京感到更加不满。“他没有见识，”布什在2006年对到访的丹麦首相说。“那就像是与一个八年级的学生辩论，而且他说的事实有误。”
He told another visiting leader a few weeks later that he was losing hope of bringing Mr. Putin around. “I think Putin is not a democrat anymore,” he said. “He’s a czar. I think we’ve lost him.”
几周之后，他告诉另一位到访的领导人，他对说服普京不抱希望。“我觉得普京不再是一个民主主义者，”他说。“他是一个沙皇。我觉得我们跟他已经没戏了。”
‘A Stone-Cold Killer’
“一个冷血杀手”
But Mr. Bush was reluctant to give up, even if those around him no longer saw the opportunity he saw. His new defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, came back from his first meeting with Mr. Putin and told colleagues that unlike Mr. Bush, he had “looked into Putin’s eyes and, just as I expected, had seen a stone-cold killer.”
但布什不愿放弃，即便他身边的人再也看不到他所说的机会。他的新国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)在结束与普京的第一次会晤后，告诉同事，与布什不同，他“直视普京的双眼，就像我预料的那样，我看到了一个冷血杀手”。
In the spring of 2008, Mr. Bush put Ukraine and Georgia on the road to NATO membership, which divided the alliance and infuriated Mr. Putin. By August of that year, the two leaders were in Beijing for the Summer Olympics when word arrived that Russian troops were marching into Georgia.
2008年春天，布什力推乌克兰和格鲁吉亚加入北约(NATO)，此举致使联盟成员国之间产生分歧，并激怒了普京。2008年8月，两位领导人在北京参加夏季奥林匹克运动会时，传来了俄罗斯军队进军格鲁吉亚的消息。
Worried that Crimea might be next, Mr. Bush succeeded in stopping Russia from swallowing up Georgia altogether. But on the eve of the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the global financial meltdown, he did not impose the sort of sanctions that Mr. Obama is now applying.
布什担心克里米亚可能会成为下一个目标，他成功阻止了俄罗斯对格鲁吉亚的吞并。但在雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)破产、全球金融危机爆发的前夜，他没有采取奥巴马现在实施的制裁举措。
“We and the Europeans threw the relationship into the toilet at the end of 2008,” Stephen J. Hadley, Mr. Bush’s national security adviser, recalled last week. “We wanted to send the message that strategically this was not acceptable. Now in retrospect, we probably should have done more like economic sanctions.”
“我们和欧洲国家在2008年末把与俄罗斯的关系扔进了马桶，”布什的国家安全顾问斯蒂芬·J·哈德利(Stephen J. Hadley)上周回忆称。“我们当时希望传达一个信息，那就是从战略上看，这是不可接受的。现在回想起来，我们可能应该做更多的工作，例如经济制裁。”
If Mr. Bush did not take the strongest punitive actions possible, his successor soon made the point moot. Taking office just months later, Mr. Obama decided to end any isolation of Russia because of Georgia in favor of rebuilding relations. Unlike his predecessors, he would try to forge a relationship not by befriending Mr. Putin but by bypassing him.
布什没有尽其可能，采取最严厉的惩罚措施，他的继任者更是很快就改弦更张。在就任总统几个月后，奥巴马决定，不再因为格鲁吉亚问题而去孤立俄罗斯，他想要重建关系。与前几任总统不同，奥巴马试图通过绕过普京而不是与他结交来建立关系。
Ostensibly complying with Russia’s two-term constitutional limit, Mr. Putin had stepped down as president and installed his aide, Dmitri A. Medvedev, in his place, while taking over as prime minister himself. So Mr. Obama decided to treat Mr. Medvedev as if he really were the leader.
普京表面上遵守俄罗斯宪法有关总统最多连任两届的规定，不再担任总统，任命他的左膀右臂德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)担任总统一职，自己担任总理。因此，奥巴马决定把梅德韦杰夫当作真正的领导人。
Among those skeptical of Mr. Obama’s strategy were Mr. Gates, who stayed on as defense secretary, and Hillary Rodham Clinton, the new secretary of state. Like Mr. Gates, Mrs. Clinton was deeply suspicious of Mr. Putin. In private, she mockingly imitated his man’s-man, legs-spread-wide posture during their meetings. But even if they did not assign it much chance of success, she and Mr. Gates both agreed the policy was worth trying and she gamely presented her Russian counterpart with a “reset” button, remembered largely for its mistaken Russian translation.
有很多人质疑奥巴马的策略，其中包括继续担任国防部长的盖茨和新任国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)。与盖茨一样，希拉里对普京深表怀疑。她私下戏谑地模仿普京在会晤期间大张着双腿的典型男人式的姿势。即便她和盖茨都不认为这个策略有多大的成功机会，但他们都同意，这个策略值得一试。她还兴冲冲地送给俄罗斯外长一个印有“重启”字样的按钮，虽然这个礼物在很大程度上是因为俄语拼写错误才被人记住。
Obama’s ‘Reset’ Gambit
奥巴马的“重启”策略
In the end, Mr. Obama did not see how the pro-Western revolution in Ukraine that toppled a Moscow ally last month would look through Mr. Putin’s eyes, said several Russia specialists. “With no meaningful rapport or trust between Obama and Putin, it’s nearly impossible to use high-level phone calls for actual problem solving,” said Andrew Weiss, a former Russia adviser to Mr. Clinton and now a vice president at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “Instead, it looks like we’re mostly posturing and talking past each other.”
几名俄罗斯问题专家表示，最终，奥巴马并不了解普京如何看待乌克兰上个月爆发的推翻莫斯科盟友的亲西方革命。“在奥巴马和普京并未建立真正的友好和互信关系的情况下，通过高层通话来真正解决问题几乎是不可能的，”安德鲁·魏斯(Andrew Weiss)说。“我们似乎基本上都是在故作姿态，各执一词。”魏斯曾经是克林顿总统的俄罗斯问题顾问，目前在卡内基国际和平基金会(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)担任副主席。
As Mr. Obama has tried to figure out what to do to end the crisis over Ukraine, he has reached out to other leaders who still have a relationship with Mr. Putin, including Angela Merkel, the German chancellor. She privately told Mr. Obama that after speaking with Mr. Putin she thought he was “in another world.” Secretary of State John Kerry later said publicly that Mr. Putin’s speech on Crimea did not “jibe with reality.”
奥巴马试图找到终结乌克兰危机的方法，他向德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)等仍与普京保有关系的领导人寻求帮助。默克尔私下告诉奥巴马，在与普京交谈过后，她认为普京生活在“另一个世界”。国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)后来公开表示，普京有关克里米亚的讲话“与现实不符”。
That has sparked a debate in Washington: Has Mr. Putin changed over the last 15 years and become unhinged in some way, or does he simply see the world in starkly different terms than the West does, terms that make it hard if not impossible to find common ground?
这在华盛顿引发了争论：是普京在过去15年间有所变化，在某种程度上精神失常了呢？还是在对世界的看法上，他只是与西方国家有着截然不同的观点？而这些不同观点让双方难以，甚至是不可能达成共识。
“He’s not delusional, but he’s inhabiting a Russia of the past — a version of the past that he has created,” said Fiona Hill, the top intelligence officer on Russia during Mr. Bush’s presidency and co-author of “Mr. Putin: Operative in the Kremlin.” “His present is defined by it and there is no coherent vision of the future. Where exactly does he go from here beyond reasserting and regaining influence over territories and people? Then what?”
“他不是出现了错觉，但他生活在一个过去时代的俄罗斯，一个他自己构建的过去版本的俄罗斯，”布什政府负责俄罗斯事务的最高情报官员菲奥娜·希尔(Fiona Hill)说。“他的现在是由这个过去的俄罗斯决定的，但没有清晰的未来。除了重申主张，重新获得对领土和民众的影响力，他究竟还会做什么呢？然后呢？”希尔是《普京：克里姆林宫的特工》(Mr. Putin: Operative in the Kremlin)一书的合著作者。
That is the question this president, and likely the next one, will be asking for some time to come.
这将是现任总统，可能也是下任总统，在未来相当一段时间内考虑的问题。