As if they weren’t busy enough, China’s police have found a new foe: naked old men. In recent days, the police in Sanya, a seaside city in the country’s far south, have taken on wizened sun-lovers who like to tan, unclad, on a beach there.
好像中国警察还不够忙似的，他们又找到了一个新目标：裸体老男人。最近几天，中国最南方的海滨城市三亚的警方开始对在那些喜欢在海滩上裸晒的干瘪的阳光爱好者采取行动。
To judge from the news pictures of the crackdown that started last week, the flocks of deeply browned men who like to bare all have become Public Enemy Number One in Sanya, which has tried to expand into a tourist resort to rival Thailand. The pictures showed the police, security guards, even green-uniformed People’s Armed Police, moving along a beach over the weekend, taking video of suspects and handing out copies of government edicts against public nudity.
打击行动从上周开始，从有关的新闻图片来看，那些晒成棕色的裸体男人已经成为三亚的头号敌人，三亚一直努力想发展成可以与泰国相媲美的旅游城市。这些图片显示，周末期间，警察、警卫、甚至还有穿着绿色制服的武警，沿着海滩对嫌疑者录像，并发放了政府有关禁止在公开场所裸体的文件。
Nudists have been gathering at Dadonghai beach near Sanya since 2002, but in recent years the crowds – mostly middle-aged and older men from other parts of China – have grown to the hundreds, The Beijing Times said on Monday. As often happens in China, the government defended its actions as strengthening the country’s moral backbone.
《京华时报》周一的报道称，大东海沙滩上从2002年开始出现裸泳裸晒者。近年来渐成规模，最多时裸泳者达四五百人，这些人大多是来自内地的中老年男子。正如经常发生的那样，中国政府称其行动是为了加强国家的道德建设。
“Normal people would not swim and sunbathe nude in public,” said Luo Baoming, the Communist Party secretary of Hainan, the island province that includes Sanya, according to The Beijing Times. Mr. Luo warned that nudists who ignored the warnings could be detained for “education.”
《京华时报》报道称，海南省党委书记罗保铭说，“正常人都不会在公众场所裸泳、裸晒。”三亚是岛屿省份海南的一个城市。罗保铭警告说，如果裸泳裸晒者不听劝阻，则可能被拘留“教育”。
“This kind of uncivilized behavior is absolutely forbidden in the context of Chinese culture,” he said, according to the China News Service.
据中新网消息，罗保铭说，“在中国文化背景下，绝不允许有这样不文明的行为发生。”
But as also often happens in China these days, the government’s crackdown prompted criticisms and mockery from citizens frustrated with meddling officials. On the Internet, some said the authorities were being too prudish.
但是也正如近年来在中国经常发生的那样，政府的打击行动引起一些对爱管闲事的官员不满的民众的批评和嘲讽。有人在网上表示，当局是在假装正经。
“This behavior is normal, and old notions should have been jettisoned long ago,” said one comment on the Internet, according to The Beijing Times. “Support nude sunbathing. They aren’t on the main front of Dadonghai, but on one corner to the side. If you don’t like it, don’t go there.”
据《新京报》称，一条网民评论这些写道，“这种行为很正常，旧观念早该丢了。支持裸晒，他们不是在大东海的正面区域，而是在侧面一角，你看不惯大可不走过去。”
But the police are likely to have their way. According to Beijing Youth Daily, an unnamed police officer in Sanya said the authorities planned to install monitoring cameras and megaphones on the beach to deter diehard nudists.
但警方可能会坚持己见。据《北京青年报》报道，三亚的一位未具名警官说，当局计划在海滩上安装摄像头和高音喇叭以阻止那些顽固的裸泳、裸晒者。