BEIJING — Three senior executives of a Chinese state-owned rail construction company and six Russian employees of a cargo company were among the 19 victims of the gunmen who attacked a hotel in the capital of the West African nation of Mali.
北京——西非国家马里首都一座饭店遭持枪歹徒袭击，导致19人遇害，其中包括一家中国国有铁路建设公司的三名高管和一家俄罗斯货运公司的六名员工。
The three Chinese victims, all men, were killed at the start of the siege of the hotel, their employer, China Railway Construction said Saturday. The six Russian men, employees of the airline Volga-Dnepr, were killed in the hotel restaurant when the gunman first opened fire, according to Maria Zakharova, a spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry.
中国铁建周六表示，三名遇害高管均为男性，他们在酒店刚遇袭时即被杀害。俄罗斯外交部发言人玛利亚·扎哈罗娃(Maria Zakharova)则表示，伏尔加-第聂伯(Volga-Dnepr)航空公司六名男性员工在持枪歹徒在酒店餐厅里第一次开火时被害。
Israel’s Foreign Ministry said Saturday that an Israeli man had also been killed in the attack but that officials still needed to gather evidence before confirming his identity. An American aid worker and two Belgians were among other foreigners killed.
以色列外交部周六称，有一名该国男子也在袭击中丧生，但还需官方搜集更多信息以进一步确定他的身份。其他遇害的海外人士还包括一名美国救援人员和两名比利时人。
The Chinese Embassy in the Malian capital, Bamako, said that seven Chinese citizens, all of them on business trips, were inside the Radisson Blu Hotel at the time of the attack on Friday. Four were rescued with the help of French special forces, the embassy said.
中国驻马里首都巴马科大使馆表示，周五丽笙酒店(Radisson Blu Hotel)遇袭时，共有七名出差公干的中国公民在场。大使馆同时表示，在法国特种部队的帮助下，其中四名中国公民获救。
Speaking in Moscow, Ms. Zakharova said that six additional employees of the airline Volga-Dnepr who had been in the hotel were rescued. The freight company often transports relief aid.
扎哈罗娃在莫斯科称，伏尔加-第聂伯航空公司另外六名同样身处该酒店的员工已获救。这家货运公司经常运输救援物资。
In expressing condolences for all the victims, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia issued a statement repeating his emphasis on the idea that “broad international cooperation” was needed to counter terrorist threats.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京发表声明，对所有遇害者表示哀悼，同时再次强调他的观点，即在抗击恐怖主义威胁方面需要“广泛的国际合作”。
Volga-Dnepr reported that the six dead were Stanislav Dumansky and Pavel Kudryavtsev, mechanics; Vladimir Kudryashov, a flight radio operator; Konstantin Preobrazhensky, a flight engineer; Sergei Yurasov, a load manager, and Aleksandr Kononenko, a navigator.
伏尔加-第聂伯公司表示，六名遇害员工分别为：技师斯坦尼斯拉夫·杜曼斯基(Stanislav Dumansky)和帕维尔·库德里亚夫采夫 (Pavel Kudryavtsev)；空中通讯员弗拉基米尔·库德里亚绍夫 (Vladimir Kudryashov)；随机工程师康斯坦丁·普列奥布拉任斯基(Konstantin Preobrazhensky)；载货经理谢尔盖·尤拉索夫(Sergei Yurasov)；以及领航员亚历山大·科诺年科(Aleksandr Kononenko)。
Governor Sergei Morozov of the Ulyanovsk region in Russia said that five of the six Russian victims were from there, the Interfax news agency reported. The governorate declared a day of mourning on Monday.
据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，乌里扬诺夫斯克州州长谢尔盖·莫罗佐夫(Sergei Morozov)称，六名俄罗斯遇害者中有五名来自该州。乌里扬诺夫斯克州宣布周一为哀悼日。
The Chinese victims were described by their company as experienced negotiators, seasoned in building infrastructure in some of the toughest and most remote parts of the world.
中国遇害者所属公司表示，他们是经验丰富的谈判人员，擅长在世界上最偏远和环境最艰苦的地区组织基础设施建设。
One of them, Chang Xuehui, the regional general manager in West Africa for the China Railway Construction Corporation, had written recently on the company website that arduous travel in Africa often left him exhausted and that a bout of malaria while he was in Gabon, also in West Africa, had depleted his energy. But “my job cannot stop,” he wrote.
其中一名遇害者、中国铁建国际集团西非公司总经理常学辉，在近期发表于公司网站的一篇文章中曾写道，在非洲的艰苦差旅生活常常令人疲惫，在前往同属西非的加蓬时他还曾感染疟疾，使他筋疲力竭，但“工作必须及时做完、做好，”他写道。
The other two executives were Zhou Tianxiang, 49, the general manager of the company’s international group, and Wang Xuanshang, deputy general manager of the international group, according to the website. China Railway Construction, a conglomerate with infrastructure projects in 17 countries, including in Latin America and Southeast Asia, announced a $1.5 billion deal with the Malian government last fall to rehabilitate a strategic rail line from Bamako to Dakar, the capital of Senegal. The railway was designed to bolster exports of Mali’s iron ore.
公司官方网站的信息显示，另两名遇害高管是49岁的中国铁建国际集团总经理周天想和中国铁建国际集团副总经理王选尚。中国铁建是一家大型集团公司，在包括拉丁美洲和东南亚地区在内的17个国家有基建项目。去年秋天，公司宣布和马里政府签署了价值15亿美元的协议，负责修复从巴马科到塞内加尔首都达喀尔的一条具有重要战略价值的铁路。这条铁路设计的初衷是刺激马里的铁矿出口。