ROME — The migrant ships kept sinking. First came a battered, blue-decked vessel that flipped over on Wednesday as terrified migrants plunged into the Mediterranean Sea. The next day, a flimsy craft capsized with hundreds of people aboard. And on Friday, still another boat sank into the deceptively placid waters of the Mediterranean.
罗马——移民乘坐的船只接二连三地翻沉。首先是上周三，一艘甲板刷成蓝色的破旧的船翻沉，惊恐的移民坠入了地中海。第二天，一艘脆弱的船倾覆，导致数百人落水。上周五，又有另一艘船沉入了地中海看似平静的水中。
Three days and three sunken ships are again confronting Europe with the horrors of its refugee crisis, as desperate people trying to reach the Continent keep dying at sea. At least 700 people from the three boats are believed to have drowned, the U.N. refugee agency announced Sunday, in one of the deadliest weeks in the Mediterranean in recent memory.
三天三次沉船事件，让欧洲再次直面难民危机的可怕之处：绝望者试图抵达欧洲大陆，却不断有人葬身大海。联合国难民事务署周日宣布，三艘据信已翻沉的船只导致至少700人丧生。这是近来地中海地区死亡最为惨重的一周之一。
As summer approaches, human trafficking along the North African coastline traditionally kicks into a higher gear. Taking advantage of calm conditions, smugglers in Libya send out more and more migrants toward Italy, often on unseaworthy vessels. Drowning deaths are inevitable, even as Italian coast guard and navy ships race to answer distress calls. Last year, more than 3,700 migrants died in the Mediterranean, a figure that could be surpassed this year.
随着夏季来临，通过北非海岸的线路进行偷渡的事件往往会进入高发期。利比亚的蛇头捉住水面平静的时机，把越来越多的移民运往意大利，所用的船只往往并不适宜航行。尽管意大利海警和海军舰艇忙于应对遇险呼叫，但溺水死亡的事件不可避免。去年有逾3700名移民葬身地中海，而今年有可能超过这个数字。
In a statement Sunday, the U.N. Children’s Fund said many of the migrants who drowned in the past week were believed to be unaccompanied adolescents.
联合国儿童基金在周日的一份声明中表示，过去一周中丧命的很多移民据信是无人看护的青少年。
The grisly week also underscored the complex problem that the refugee crisis poses for Europe. The Continent’s leaders have signed a controversial deal with Turkey that so far has sharply reduced the migrant flow into Greece.
这悲惨的一周也突显了难民危机给欧洲带来的复杂问题。欧洲大陆的领导人与土耳其签署了一项有争议的协议。到目前为止，该协议大幅减少了进入希腊的移民人数。
Yet closing the Greek route has shifted attention to the longer, more dangerous sea route from Libya to Italy. As of Wednesday, roughly 41,000 migrants had been rescued at sea after leaving Libya, nearly the same number from the same period last year, according to the United Nations and the International Organization for Migration.
然而，希腊的路线被封堵之后，关注的焦点就转移到了航程更长、危险性更大的利比亚至意大利的海上航线。联合国和国际移民组织(International Organization for Migration)的数字显示，截至上周三，大约有4.1万移民离开利比亚后在海上获救，几乎与去年同期的数字持平。
The potential for a sudden increase in traffic is clear: An additional 4,000 migrants were rescued on Thursday alone, the same day that as many as 550 people died on the second migrant boat that sank.
偷渡人数突然增加的可能性是显而易见的：仅在上周四，就有另外4000名移民获救，同一天有至多550人随第二艘移民船一起葬身大海。