Downingtown, Pa. — It’s a shame that most of the voluptuous heirloom roses were dashed by the rains that have beaten down on David L. Culp’s garden recently. Earlier this month, at their peak, they were draped like drenched silk ball gowns over the arbors and fences: Madame Hardy, Sombreuil, Climbing Souvenir de la Malmaison.
宾夕法尼亚州唐宁顿(Downingtown, Pa.)——大卫·L·卡尔普(David L. Culp)花园里美艳的家传品种月季被大雨冲刷在地，真是可惜。这个月早些时候，这些花儿正处于盛花期，娇嫩欲滴，就像一只只丝制绣球，挂满灌木和栅栏。这些月季花的品种包括“哈迪夫人”(Madame Hardy)、“索柏伊”(Sombreuil)和藤本的“马美逊的纪念”(Climbing Souvenir de la Malmaison)。
“They’ve looked better,” Mr. Culp said, in something of an understatement.
“它们以前看上去更好，”卡尔普轻描淡写地说。
But in the grand scheme of things, the fallen roses are a small disappointment, like Cecilia Bartoli missing a note or two in a lifetime of arias.
但就整幅宏伟蓝图而言，这些被雨打落的月季花只是一个小遗憾，就像唱了一辈子歌的塞西莉亚·芭托莉（Cecilia Bartoli，意大利著名歌唱家——译注），偶尔漏掉的一两个音节。
As spring moves into summer, this two-acre garden in the Brandywine Valley is a little like an opera. Tall foxgloves and giant purple alliums in the wide borders will soon give way to black hollyhocks, yellow rudbeckias and bronze paddle-shaped cannas. The wooded hillside, an acre of snowdrops and hellebores in winter that blooms with white dogwoods in spring, is now alight with white hydrangeas and magnolias, and little waves of golden Hakanochloa macra, or Japanese forest grass.
春去夏来，这座位于白兰地酒山谷(Brandywine Valley)、占地2英亩的花园有点儿像上演了一部歌剧。长在花园宽阔边界上的毛地黄和巨大的紫色绣球葱，很快就要让位给黑色的蜀葵、黄色的金光菊和青铜色的桨形美人蕉。草木葱茏的山坡上有一英亩土地，冬季会有雪花莲和藜芦竞相绽放，春天里则会遍布白色的山茱萸；而现在，这里又被白色的绣球花和木兰花点亮了，还有那平静无波的金色箱根草田。
In the midst of all this ebullience, the white-plastered walls of the 1790s farmhouse offer relief, like a moment of silence in the music. “Lots of people say, ‘Why don’t you put a vine up there?’ ” Mr. Culp said, standing by the sodden rose border, looking toward the house. “But I don’t want to. I want that simplicity.”
在这段热情奔放的旋律当中，一堵建于18世纪90年代的农舍白墙提供了一则调剂，正如音乐中的片刻停顿。“许多人问我，为什么你不在那边弄一片葡萄藤？”卡尔普站在月季花丛边，望着那边的房子说，“但我不想那么做。我想要一种朴素美。”
As the vice president of sales and marketing for Sunny Border Nurseries, in Kensington, Conn., Mr. Culp, 62, also oversees plant research and development, so he is often on the road. But at home, the plant collector is a master of design.
62岁的卡尔普，是康涅狄格州肯辛顿(Kensington, Conn.)一家苗圃公司Sunny Border Nurseries的副总裁，负责销售和市场营销，同时也监管植物的研发工作。所以他经常出差在外。但在家时，这位植物收藏家也是一位设计大师。
Over the years, I have trailed after him through well-known gardens, crouched over the tiny petals of rare snowdrops (many of the thousands that bloom here he bred himself) and listened to him lecture on the art of the winter garden (he breeds his own Brandywine Hybrid hellebores, too, in dark reds, apricots, spotted pinks, pale greens). Last fall, Timber Press published his first book, “The Layered Garden: Design Lessons for Year-Round Beauty From Brandywine Cottage,” written with Adam Levine, with photographs by Rob Cardillo. I devoured it.
多年来，我追随他走过许多著名的花园，蹲在珍稀的雪莲花那纤小的花瓣旁（盛开在那些公园中的成千上万种花卉，大多是他亲自培育出来的），听他讲述冬景花园的艺术（他自己培育出了若干以白兰地酒山谷命名的杂交藜芦品种，有深红色、杏黄色、斑点粉和淡绿色）。去年秋天，提姆勃尔出版社(Timber Press)出版了他的第一本书——《分层的花园：美丽一整年，来自白兰地酒山谷农舍的设计课》(The Layered Garden: Design Lessons for Year-Round Beauty From Brandywine Cottage)，联合作者是亚当·莱文(Adam Levine)，摄影师是罗伯·卡地罗(Rob Cardillo)。我迫不及待地读完了整本书。
Now I was with the wizard again, as another rain poured down on our umbrellas.
现在，我又和这位魔法师聚在一起了。又一场大雨倾盆而下，浇在我们的雨伞上。
“What would a garden be without rain?” Mr. Culp said valiantly, raising his voice above the din.
“要是没有雨，花园会怎样？”卡尔英气十足地说，提高音量压过雨声。
Sloshing toward the vegetable garden, we paused to gaze across the expanse: the forested slope to the north, stretching 400 feet from one end to another; the voluptuous borders surrounding the vegetable garden with its white picket fence; and the white facade of the house, glimmering beneath ancient spruces. As if that weren’t enough, there is a ruin, too, with flowering vines and perennials tucked into the crevices of its stone walls and cracked floor.
继续朝菜园走，我们停下来眺望这片广阔的区域：森林向北方倾斜而下，从一端到另一端绵延400英尺（约合122米）；迷人的白色木桩围栏，把菜园围了起来；房子的正面也是白色的，在古老的云杉树下熠熠生辉。然而这一切似乎还不够，这里还布置了一片废墟，开花的藤蔓和多年生的植物爬进石墙的缝隙，和开裂的地板。
“I do think a garden should be seductive,” he said. “The strength of any garden is its ability to take you away.”
“我坚信，一座花园应该是具有诱惑力的，”他说，“任何花园具有的力量都源自它将你吸引过去的能力。”
Mr. Culp was born into a Pennsylvania Dutch clan, in Reading. But his mother’s family hailed from the Great Smoky Mountains of Tennessee. “We used to take the train from Reading Terminal and go spend the summers in the Smokies,” he said, on a farm that belonged to his grandparents.
卡尔普出生在宾州雷丁市(Reading)的一个荷兰后裔家庭。但是他母亲的家族来自田纳西州的大烟山(Great Smoky Mountains)。“我们经常坐火车去大烟山消夏，”他说，他的外祖父在那里有一座农场。
He started gardening when he was 9 and his grandmother gave him a bag of tulip bulbs. He planted them in military rows down her flower border, and “from that moment I knew I was a gardener,” he writes. “The Layered Garden” is his attempt to do for others what his grandmother did for him: “Empower people to garden,” as he puts it in the book.
当他9岁时，外祖母给了他一袋子郁金香球茎。从那时起，他便开始学习园艺。他把这些球茎种成一列，“自从那一刻，我就知道自己是一名园丁了，”他写道。《分层的花园》是他的一种尝试，他希望能把外祖母为他所做的传递给他人，那就是：“鼓励人们做园艺。”他在自己的书中这样说。
You will probably kill a lot of plants along the way, he warns readers, but there is no alternative: “Sometimes the way we learn best is by following our impulses and then sorting out the resulting messes by ourselves.”
在做园艺的过程中，你或许会杀死许多植物，他告诫读者说，但这别无选择：“有时候，最好的学习方法就是跟随我们自己的冲动，然后再在我们自己造成的这片混乱中理出头绪来。”
When he wasn’t gardening at her farm, he occupied himself with the pony and chickens he had there, and played in the surrounding fields and woods. “I never wanted those summers to end,” Mr. Culp said. “I think you recreate what you love.”
当他不在外祖母的农场里干活儿时，他就和小马驹和鸡群一起在田间和树林里玩。“我真希望夏天永远没有尽头，”卡尔普说，“我想，你会去复制自己所爱的东西。”
So when he saw this simple farmhouse tucked into the lee side of a wooded slope two decades ago, “it was more than love at first sight,” he writes. It “struck a chord that reached back to my ancestors.”
所以，20年前，当他看到这处坐落在山脉背风面的简朴农舍时，“第一眼就爱上了它，”他写道，“它敲动了我的心弦，让我回想起儿时在农场的美好时光。”
The interior was a dumping ground used by a succession of occupants, full of old tires, water beds, chairs hanging from the thick ceiling beams. The walls were painted a sickly green. “I almost gutted it,” he said.
历经前几任住户的使用，屋子里面简直成了个垃圾场，堆满了旧轮胎、水床和挂在厚实天花板横梁上的椅子。墙壁被刷成了恶心的绿色。“我几乎全部重新弄了一番，”他说。
The huge hearth is now open to a white-plastered living room, and his bedroom, three floors up, looks out over the vegetable garden.
一间墙面刷成白色的起居室里，现在开设了一座巨大的壁炉。而他的卧室在三楼，可以看到整座菜园。
We stood at the entry arbor to that garden, trying to ignore the way the double pink roses of Sarah Van Fleet hung their heads.
我们站在园子入口处的树荫下，试图忽略那些耷拉着脑袋的莎拉范芙丽特双粉月季(Sarah Van Fleet)。
“Philosophically, it seemed right to me that the heart of the garden be a veg,” Mr. Culp said.
“从哲学意义上讲，我想蔬菜才应该是这个园子的核心，”卡尔普说。
It’s a nod to his ancestors, and all those settlers in the Brandywine Valley, who planted their food gardens on axis and close to the house. Straight lines and rectangles are important, he reminded me, “especially if you have a proclivity to an ebullient planting style.”
这种想法，是从他的祖辈、以及白兰地酒山谷里的所有开拓者那里继承下来的。这些开拓者在靠近他们房屋的地方依轴线辟出园子、种上食用作物。直线和矩形最重要，他提醒我，“尤其是如果你倾向于活力四射的种植风格。”
The geometric vegetable garden is closely aligned to the house, and matches its footprint. “The center of the garden is a rectangle,” he said. “And the garden moves out in a series of rectangles.” Even the stone birdbath at the heart of the garden is a rectangle.
几何形状的菜园紧挨着房子，同这处房产的占地相当。“园子的中间是一个长方形，”他说，“以一系列矩形向外扩散。”连园子正中心的石头鸟池，也是矩形的。
Mr. Culp rarely sets foot in there, however. It is the domain of his partner, Michael Alderfer, a designer for Guaranteed Foliage, a company that specializes in indoor plants, in Lederach, Pa. He designs container gardens as well. And he loves to cook.
然而，卡尔普却很少涉足那里。那是他的合伙人迈克尔·奥尔德弗的地盘。奥尔德弗是Guaranteed Foliage公司的设计师，其公司专注于室内植物设计，位于宾州的莱德里奇(Lederach)。他也设计容器花园，还热爱烹饪。
Mr. Alderfer is also good at pulling out invasives, by hand and with the tractor. And hauling rocks. The two men built the low stone walls and the steps leading down to the house, which nestles in a sunken courtyard beneath the trees, as well as the dry stone wall along the hillside and the stone steps leading up into the woods. They often worked at night, Mr. Culp said, illuminated by the headlights of his old Subaru. “I was younger then,” he said with a laugh.
奥尔德弗还擅长凭借双手加拖拉机之力，揪出花园里的入侵物种以及拖运石头。两个人建起一座低矮的石墙，台阶蜿蜒而下，一直延伸到屋子门口。屋外下沉式的院子，掩映在树丛之中；干砌的石墙则沿山坡向上，和石头台阶一起通往树林中去。他们经常在晚上干活，卡尔普说，用他那辆老斯巴鲁的车灯做照明，“我那时候还很年轻，”他大笑着说。
When he bought the place, in 1990, the old black walnuts, the spruces and the Seckel pear tree were already there, which contributed to the sense of place. One native cherry tree in the woods is so old that Mr. Culp plans to put a crutch under its ancient limb.
当他在1990年买下这个地方时，那些古老的黑胡桃树、云杉和塞克尔梨树(Seckel pear tree)就已长在那里了，为此处增添了一份地域感。林子里的一株本地樱桃树实在是太老了，所以卡尔普计划在它苍老的枝干之下加一个支撑。
“I don’t take down any existing trees, unless they are falling down,” he said. “My general rule was not to change anything about the site. No grade changes. Whenever I found evidence of a wall, I put it back.”
“我不会去砍伐已有的树木，除非它们是自己倒下的，”他说，“我的原则就是，不改变这里的任何东西。绝没有大变动。每当我找到一堵墙的残迹，我就将它放回去。”
He doesn’t use pesticides or chemical fertilizers either. “When people on a tour see black spot on my roses, I’m proud of it, in a way,” he said. “I can live with that. I can’t live without the sound of birds.”
他不使用农药和化肥。“如果人们在我园里的月季上发现了黑斑，从某种程度上说，我觉得很骄傲，”他说，“我可以同自然和平相处。我无法生活在没有鸟叫声的环境里。”
As we climbed a path into the woods, I ducked under a buckeye tree, taking in the trilliums and drifts of Solomon’s seal along the path. “How many plants are here?” I asked him.
我们沿着一条小路爬坡进入树林，我弯腰躲过一株橡树，欣赏着道路两旁的延龄草(trilliums)和一簇簇玉竹(Solomon’s seal)。“这里有多少种植物？”我问他。
Mr. Culp said, “I stopped counting at 3,000.”
卡尔普说：“我在数到第3000种时，就停下了。”
At the foot of the hill, a Forest Pansy redbud arched its dark branches, with their heart-shaped maroon leaves, over the drive. Confederate jasmine climbed 30 feet up two black locust trees. “That’s 15 years of growth for a plant that’s not supposed to be hardy here,” Mr. Culp said. And to think that his initial intention in planting all of this was simply to screen out the subdivision on the other side.
在山脚下，紫荆花的枝繁叶茂，树枝弯成一个拱门的样子，树枝上满是心形的栗色叶子。石龙藤(Confederate jasmine)爬上了30英尺高的两棵刺槐树。“这些植物在这里生长了15年了，虽然这儿的气候并不适宜它生长，”卡尔普说。想想看，他种这些植物的初衷，只是想筛选出适合另半边山坡生长的植物品种。
“This is my ‘Wild Garden,’ after William Robinson,” he said, referring to the Irish horticulturist and his 1870 book that wrenched England away from bedding plants. But Mr. Culp’s wild woodland is deeply American, with its mix of natives and plants from around the world that can thrive in dry shade and lean soil.
“这是我的‘野生花园’，步威廉﹒罗宾森的后尘，”他说，引述了那位爱尔兰园艺家和他写于1870年的书。那本书认为，英国是完全不适合培育植物的。但是卡尔普的野生林地却完全是美国式的，混合了来自本地的和世界各地的、能够适应当地阴凉干燥的气候和贫瘠的土壤的植物。
As staggering as this garden is in its complexity, its components are surprisingly accessible. A beginner could study one part of the rose garden to see how a huge blue-green agave anchors the blowzy roses, or how familiar plants like nepeta (or catmint), campanula and dianthus can transform a stone wall with rivers of blues and violets.
这个花园的复杂程度令人震惊，但其实，分解开来的每一部分都是非常容易办到的。初学者可以从月季花园里学一点东西，观摩一下一株巨大的青色龙舌兰是如何与月季花们相依相存的；或者一些诸如假荆芥（或叫“猫薄荷”）、风铃草和石竹这样很寻常的植物，是如何让蓝色与紫色在一面石头墙上流淌起来的。
Mr. Culp led me around to the ruin garden, made from the remains of an old stable whose roof had fallen in. Instead of tearing it down, he pulled yards of English ivy off the stone walls and began experimenting with plants that could take full sun, little water and the alkaline conditions of the mortared walls. Now the yellow flowers of corydalis and the little pink ones of soapwort nestle in the crevices.
卡尔普带着我沿那片废墟走了一圈，那是用一座不知谁家的坍塌老房顶的残部搭成的。卡尔普没有将废弃的房顶拆除，取而代之的是，他在上面种上了英国常春藤。他开始做实验，看植物能否在日晒充足、少水的碱性石灰墙上生存下去。现如今，紫堇开出的黄花和肥皂草开出的小粉花在缝隙里安了家。
Mr. Alderfer took a sledgehammer to the concrete floor, opening up space for euphorbias and mints to ramble. Variegated agaves, sedges and hens-and-chicks are planted in tufa troughs, creating a medley of mini-gardens within the walled space.
奥尔德弗用一把大锤，在水泥地上为多肉植物和薄荷辟出一片生长区域。金边龙舌兰、莎草和观音莲被种在石灰华槽中，为室内空间创造出一种混搭风格的迷你小花园。
“This is a perfect garden for an urban space,” Mr. Culp observed.
“这样的花园对于城市空间来说堪称完美，”卡尔普如此评价。
I thought of all those shady yards in Brooklyn, those scraps of concrete waiting for a sledgehammer and a gardener willing to kill some plants — just to find the ones that will make a garden.
我想到布鲁克林所有那些背阴的院子，那些混凝土的残片正等待着一把大锤及一位园丁。这位园丁会杀死一些植物——只为找到可以构造出一座花园的种类。