SAN FRANCISCO — The race for the tablet market has become a full-blown sprint.
旧金山——平板电脑市场的竞争已经进入全面冲刺阶段。
The intense competition will be highlighted on Tuesday, as Apple, Nokia and Microsoft each introduce new tablets.
周二，这种激烈的竞争将变得更加明显，因为苹果(Apple)、诺基亚(Nokia)和微软( Microsoft)都将推出新平板电脑。
Those devices will be competing for consumer attention against several others recently released by other tech heavyweights, including Amazon, Google and Samsung Electronics.
这些设备将与亚马逊(Amazon)、谷歌(Google)、三星电子(Samsung Electronics)等其他科技巨头最近推出的产品展开竞争，争夺消费者的关注。
The stakes are high, and getting higher, as demand for tablets has exploded in the last few years. About 120 million tablets were shipped in 2012, nearly seven times as many as in 2010, when the Apple iPad was first released and generated wide interest, according to Gartner, a market research company.
鉴于消费者对平板电脑的需求在过去几年迅速增加，竞争牵涉的得失非常大，而且越来越大。据市场研究公司高德纳(Gartner)透露，2012年，平板电脑的发货量大约为1.2亿台，几乎是2010年发货量的七倍。2010年，苹果首次推出iPad，引发广泛兴趣。
“Getting on an airplane it’s amazing the number of iPads that you now see that used to be either notebooks or portable DVD players,” along with smaller tablets and e-book readers that are replacing books and magazines, said Ross Rubin, an independent analyst for Reticle Research.
Reticle Research的独立分析师罗斯·鲁宾(Ross Rubin)表示，  “登上飞机，你看到的iPad数目多得让你吃惊，以前他们用的都是笔记本电脑或便携式DVD播放机”，iPad之外，你还会看到一些较小的平板电脑，以及代替书和杂志的电子书阅览器。
Apple has maintained a clear lead, but with the tablet offerings from manufacturers almost as abundant as those for smartphones, the market has become more fractured.
苹果一直处于明显的领先地位，然而，各家厂商推出的平板电脑几乎已经像智能手机一样多，这个市场已经趋于零碎化。
In the second quarter, iPads had the largest share of the worldwide tablet market, with 32 percent, according to IDC. Samsung, the No. 2 tablet maker, is quickly gaining traction, with 18 percent of the market in the second quarter, up from 7.6 percent in the period a year earlier.
据国际数据公司(IDC)透露，在第二季度，iPad在世界平板电脑市场中占据最大份额——32%。第二大平板电脑制造商三星的号召力迅速增强，在第二季中占据了18%的市场份额，该公司去年同期的市场份额仅为7.6%。
Apple is expected to announce significantly upgraded versions of its iPad and iPad Mini devices on Tuesday. The iPad Mini is expected to have a higher-resolution display, while the bigger iPad is expected to have a slimmer design, weighing about a pound. Both iPads will also most likely get Apple’s new processors, but not the fingerprint sensor that is in the latest high-end iPhone.
预计苹果将于周二推出显著升级的 iPad和iPad Mini设备。 iPad Mini将配有分辨率有所提高的显示屏。而较大的iPad将变得更薄，大约只有1磅（约合454克）重。两种iPad都很可能装有苹果的新处理器，但不包括应用于最新款高端iPhone的指纹识别器。
On the same day, Microsoft will release new versions of its Surface tablets. Nokia, the mobile device maker Microsoft is in the process of buying much of, is expected to introduce a new tablet in Abu Dhabi.
同一天，微软也将发布新版Surface平板电脑。移动设备制造商诺基亚预计将在阿布扎比推出一款新平板电脑。微软目前正在收购诺基亚的大部分业务。
Mr. Rubin said each manufacturer had developed slightly different approaches with tablets. Microsoft, for example, is largely going after professionals by offering tablets that double as PCs. Samsung sells a large variety of tablets, some that include a stylus for drawing and taking notes, to cater to different professions and interests. And Apple markets its iPads as versatile devices that can be used for both work and play.
鲁宾表示，各个制造商开发平板电脑的策略存在微小的差别。例如，微软主要通过提供兼具个人电脑功能的平板电脑来吸引专业人员。三星则出售品种繁多的平板电脑，迎合不同职业及兴趣，部分产品配有能够画图、记笔记的触控笔。苹果则将iPad标榜为既能工作又能玩的万能设备。
Amazon offers low-priced tablets to get people to buy content from its stores — one of several less expensive tablets that have emerged to challenge the iPad. Amazon’s Kindle Fire costs as little as $140, and Google’s Nexus tablet starts at $230. Apple’s iPad Mini starts at $330.
亚马逊提供低价平板电脑，目的是促使人们从其商店购买内容产品，其产品是几款挑战iPad的较为廉价的平板电脑之一。亚马逊Kindle Fire的售价低至140美元(约合853元人民币)，谷歌Nexus平板电脑的起售价为230美元，苹果iPad Mini的起售价则为330美元。
Many new tablets have already failed or struggled. Hewlett-Packard’s TouchPad tablet was killed after 48 days of slow sales. BlackBerry’s PlayBook was a dismal failure. And Microsoft’s first Surface tablets, released last year, sold so poorly that the company took a $900 million write-down for unsold inventory.
许多新平板电脑都已失败，要不就是处境艰难。惠普(Hewlett-Packard)的TouchPad平板电脑在48天的缓慢销售之后便走到了生命的终点。黑莓(BlackBerry)的PlayBook也落得惨败。微软去年发布的首款Surface平板电脑的销售情况十分惨淡，未能售出的存货使得公司减记了9亿美元。
Some of the tablets may not be catching on because people are not finding them very useful. A Gartner survey found that 80 percent of people with iPads use their tablets at least 10 times a day, much more often than people with other kinds of tablets. That gives iPad owners more time to be exposed to buying more apps, movies and games. And the more apps they buy, the more likely they will keep buying Apple hardware in the future.
有些平板电脑之所以不受欢迎，可能是因为人们觉得它们没有太大用处。高德纳调查发现，80%的iPad用户至少每天使用他们的平板电脑10次，比其他平板电脑用户频繁得多。这样一来，iPad用户就有更多机会购买更多的应用程序、电影和游戏。而他们购买的应用越多，他们将来继续购买苹果硬件的可能性就越大。
“Other tablet providers need to understand why owners of their tablets spent significantly less time on their devices,” said Annette Jump, research director at Gartner.
高德纳的研究总裁安妮特·江普(Annette Jump)说，“其他平板电脑提供者需要弄清楚，为何他们的平板电脑用户在他们的设备上花费的时间远远少于iPad用户。”
Despite the difficulties of breaking into the market, device makers push hard, knowing that future profits could depend in large part on tablet sales.
各家厂商深知公司将来的利润在很大程度上取决于平板电脑销售，因此不顾打入市场的种种困难，仍然在大力猛推。
That is especially true for companies like Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft, which have traditionally been closely tied to the PC market. Sales of PCs have softened considerably in recent years, and one reason is that consumers have turned to more mobile tablets for basic computing tasks, like Web surfing and casual game playing. That trend is expected to accelerate.
对于惠普和微软这种一直与PC市场联系紧密的公司而言，情况尤其如此。近年来，PC的销量降低了很多，原因之一就是消费者利用移动性更强的平板电脑来完成网络冲浪、打小游戏等基本电脑任务。这个趋势预计还将加强。
Gartner predicts tablets will outship PCs on an annual basis in two years. About 184 million tablets will be shipped in 2013, Gartner says, versus 303 million PCs. But by 2015, manufacturers will ship 331 million tablets and 272 million PCs.
高德纳预计，平板电脑的年出货量将在两年内超过PC。高德纳称，平板电脑2013年的出货量将为1.84亿，PC则为3.03亿。但是，到2015年，平板电脑的出货量将为3.31亿，PC则为2.72亿。
Timothy D. Cook, the chief executive of Apple, remarked on the rapid growth of the iPad in an earnings call last year.
去年，苹果公司首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)在一次远程财报会议中提到了iPad销量的迅速增加。
“Just two years after we shipped the initial iPad, we sold 67 million,” Mr. Cook said. “It took us 24 years to sell that many Macs, and five years for that many iPods, and over three years for that many iPhones.”
“推出首款iPad仅仅两年，我们的销量就达到了6700万台，”库克说。“售出同样多的苹果电脑(Mac)花了我们24年的时间，iPod花了五年时间，iPhone则是三年多。”
For now, at least, Apple continues to be the standard to beat.
至少是就目前而言，苹果仍然是其他公司想要打败的佼佼者。
“It’s the reference point,” said Mr. Rubin of Reticle Research. “It was a pioneer in making tablets more popular and more accessible.”
“它是参照物，”Reticle Research的鲁宾说。“在使平板电脑变得更流行更易获得方面，它是先驱。”
Even Apple, though, faces challenges, particularly in emerging markets. In China, for example, generic unbranded tablets that are occasionally knockoffs sell for as little as $80 and are extremely popular. Yet there is a bright side for Apple in China: the Chinese are buying either the cheap white-box tablets or an iPad, not much in between, according to Carolina Milanesi, research vice president at Gartner.
然而，就连苹果也面临着各种挑战，尤其是在新兴市场。以中国为例，那些没有品牌的大路货平板电脑（偶尔还是仿冒品）售价低至80美元，非常受人欢迎。但是，苹果在中国的前景也有乐观的一面：高德纳的研究副总裁卡罗莱娜·米拉内西(Carolina Milanesi)说，中国人要么购买廉价的白盒平板电脑，要么就购买iPad，选择其他产品的并不多。
In such a fast-changing market, however, that could quickly change. What appears certain is that consumers will be hearing much more about tablets this fall, and particularly this week.
然而，在这样一个变化迅速的市场上，上述情况也可能很快发生变化。似乎确定无疑的是，消费者今秋将听到很多关于平板电脑的消息，特别是本周。
“A new iPad launch always piques consumer interest in the tablet category,” Tom Mainelli, a research director at IDC, said in a statement. “And traditionally that has helped both Apple and its competitors.”
“新款iPad上市总是会刺激消费者对平板电脑的兴趣，”IDC的研究总裁汤姆·马伊内利(Tom Mainelli)在一则声明中说。“而这往往会给苹果及其竞争者提供帮助。”