IT all started with air mattresses.
这一切都要从充气床垫说起。
Brian Chesky’s parents wanted just one thing for him when he graduated from the Rhode Island School of Design — that he get a job with health insurance. He tried that for a while with a design firm in Los Angeles, but he got fed up and packed up his Honda Civic and drove up to San Francisco to crash with his pal, Joe Gebbia, who agreed to split the rental of his house with Chesky. “Unfortunately, my share came to $1,150 and I only had $1,000 in the bank, so I had a math problem — and I was unemployed,” said Chesky. But they did have an idea. The week Chesky got to town, in October 2007, San Francisco was hosting the Industrial Designers Society of America, and all the hotel rooms on the conference Web site were sold out. So Chesky and Gebbia decided, why not turn their house into a bed and breakfast for attendees?
布莱恩·切斯基(Brian Chesky)从罗德岛设计学院毕业时，父母对他只有一个要求：找一份能提供医疗保险的工作。于是他先在洛杉矶的一家设计公司干了一段时间，但是后来厌烦了，就打包行李，开着他的本田思域去旧金山找朋友乔·戈比亚(Joe Gebbia)。戈比亚同意和切斯基合租房子。“但不幸的是，我当时账户里只有1000块，却要负担1150美元的房租。这不仅是个数学难题，我当时还正在失业中。”切斯基讲道。但他们很快有了主意。2007年10月切斯基抵达旧金山时正值美国工业设计师协会在那里召开为期一周的会议，而会议官网上推荐的酒店都被订满了。切斯基和戈比亚由此想到为什么不把他们的房子改为旅社，提供住宿和早餐，接待参会者呢？
The problem was “we had no beds,” but Gebbia did have three air mattresses. “So we inflated them and called ourselves ‘Airbed and Breakfast,’ ” Chesky, 31, recalled for me in an interview. “Three people stayed with us, and we charged them $80 a night. We also made breakfast for them and became their local guides.” In the process, they made enough money to cover the rent. More important, though, it spawned a bigger idea that has since blossomed into a multimillion-dollar company and a whole new way for people to make money. The idea was to create a global network through which anyone anywhere could rent a spare room in their home to earn cash. In homage to its roots, they called the company Airbnb, which has grown so large, so fast that it is now the equivalent of a major global hotel chain — even though, unlike Hilton, it doesn’t own a single bed. And the new trend it set off is the “sharing economy.”
“问题是，我们没有多余的床，但戈比亚有三个充气床垫。我们就给它们充上气，注明旅社提供充气床及早餐。”在接受我的采访时，现年31岁的切斯基回忆起当时的情景，“我们定价每晚80美元，来了3个人。我们给他们做早餐，还充当导游。”这样，他们赚到了足够的钱来付清租金。更为重要的是，这让他们产生了一个更大的想法：建立一个全球性的网络，让所有人都可以通过出租多余的房间来挣钱。而这个想法不仅发展成为一个价值成百上千万美元的公司，而且帮助人们以新的方式来赚钱。为纪念这一切的起源，他们把公司命名为充气床垫住宿及早餐旅社(Airbnb)。该公司发展迅猛，规模已相当于全球连锁酒店希尔顿。但和希尔顿不同的是，没有任何一个床位属于Airbnb。而他们催生的现象就是“分享型经济”。
I first heard Chesky describe his company two years ago and thought it was a quaint idea that would find limited traction with niche travelers. I mean, how many people in Paris really want to rent out their kid’s bedroom down the hall to a perfect stranger who comes to them via the Internet? And how many strangers want to be down the hall? Wrong. Turns out there is an innkeeper residing in all of us!
我两年前第一次听切斯基讲起他的公司，当时觉得这个想法有点古怪，对于大多数游客来说恐怕没什么吸引力。比如说在巴黎能有多少人真的愿意把孩子以前的卧室租给一个仅通过网络联系过的陌生人呢？而又有多少人愿意住在陌生人家里呢？事实证明，我大错特错了，看来我们的身体里都住着个旅社老板呢。
On July 12, Chesky told me, “Tonight we have 140,000 people around the world staying in Airbnb rooms. Hilton has around 600,000 rooms. We will get up to 200,000 people per night by peak this summer.” Airbnb has 23,000 rooms and homes listed in New York City alone, and 24,000 in Paris. Worldwide, “we have listings in 34,000 cities and 192 countries,” added Chesky. “We are the largest short-term rental site of its kind in China today, and we have no office there.”
7月12日，切斯基告诉我，“今晚，全世界有14万人住在通过Airbnb网站找到的落脚点。而希尔顿有大约60万间客房。今年夏天旺季时每个晚上会有多达20万人住在通过我们找到的住处。”仅在纽约就有2.3万个房间和住所登记在Airbnb上，巴黎则有2.4万个。网站上登记了全球“192个国家的3.4万个城市的住所，“切斯基补充道，“在中国，我们是最大的短租类网站，而我们在那儿连办公室还没有呢。”
Chesky then fires up his iPad and shows me on Airbnb.com the rooms and homes being offered for rent: “We have over 600 castles,” he begins. “We have dozens of yurts, caves, tepees with TVs in them, water towers, motor homes, private islands, glass houses, lighthouses, igloos with Wi-Fi; we have a home that Jim Morrison used to live in; we have treehouses — hundreds of treehouses — which are the most profitable listings on our Web site per square footage. The treehouse in Lincoln, Vt., is more valuable than the main house. We have treehouses in Vermont that have had six-month waiting lists. People plan their vacation now around treehouse availability!”
切斯基打开iPad向我展示Airbnb.com网站上可供出租的房屋。“有600多个城堡，”他说，“十几个蒙古包、窑洞、印第安圆锥帐篷，都配有电视，还有提供无线上网的水塔、房车、私人岛屿、玻璃屋、灯塔和爱斯基摩雪屋；我们还有吉姆·莫里森(Jim Morrison)曾住过的房子；还有树屋，好几百个，按每平方英尺来算，这些树屋是网站上最挣钱的房子。佛蒙特州林肯市的树屋比主建筑还要值钱。这个州有几处树屋的预订已经排到了半年以后。人们现在都根据树屋的预订情况来计划自己的假期了！”
In 2011, Prince Hans-Adam II offered his entire principality of Liechtenstein for rent on Airbnb ($70,000 a night), “complete with customized street signs and temporary currency,” The Guardian reported. You can rent any number of Frank Lloyd Wright homes — and even a one-square-meter house in Berlin that goes for $13 a night.
2011年，汉斯·亚当二世王子(Prince Hans-Adam II)把整个列支敦士登公国以每晚7万美元的价格在Airbnb上出租。根据《卫报》报道，“入住者可享有专属定制路标和临时货币。”你还可以租住很多由弗兰克·罗伊德·莱特(Frank Lloyd Wright)设计的寓所，甚至以13美元一晚的价格住在柏林一个仅有一平米大的房子里。
While it sounds like Chesky is just a global rental agent with more scale, there is something much bigger going on here. Airbnb’s real innovation is not online rentals. It’s “trust.” It created a framework of trust that has made tens of thousands of people comfortable renting rooms in their homes to strangers. 
听上去切斯基不过是个产业规模较大的全球出租房中介，但事实绝非如此。Airbnb真正的创新之处不在于网上出租，而在于“信任感”。它建立了一个信任框架使得数以万计的人们能够放心地把家里多余的房间租给陌生人住。
To rent a yurt in Mongolia, you go to the Airbnb Web site, sign up for it and pay Airbnb by credit card. It takes 6 percent to 12 percent of the fee from the guest and 3 percent from the host. The fee is paid to the renter after the first night. Through Airbnb, guests and hosts can verify each other’s driver’s license or passport, e-mail address and phone number, and connect Facebook profiles. No one is anonymous. They work out their own exchange of keys.
比如你要租住蒙古境内的一个蒙古包，得先登录Airbnb的网站，申请租用并以信用卡支付房费。网站向住客收取房费的6%至12%，向房主收取房费的3%。在客人入住第一晚后，房费会打入房主账户。通过Airbnb，住客和房主可以对彼此的驾驶执照、护照、电子邮件、电话和Facebook资料进行验证。没有人是匿名用户，双方自行商定如何移交钥匙。
Afterward, guests and hosts rate each other online, so there is a huge incentive to deliver a good experience because a series of bad reputational reviews and you’re done. Airbnb also automatically provides $1 million in insurance against damage or theft to nearly all of its hosts (some countries have restrictions) and only rarely gets claims. This framework of trust has unlocked huge value from unused bedrooms. “In the last 12 months in Paris, we’ve generated $240 million in economic activity,” Chesky said.
之后，租客和房主可以在网上相互评价。若不断收到差评的话，你就完了，所以大家都很乐意给对方留下好印象。对几乎所有的房主（个别国家有限制），Airbnb都提供100万美元的保险以防物品失窃或财产受损，但很少收到这方面的索赔。这个信任框架的建立充分发挥了空余房间的巨大价值。“过去一年当中在巴黎我们的经济活动就价值2.4亿美元，”切斯基说道。
Airbnb has also spawned its own ecosystem — ordinary people who will now come clean your home, coordinate key exchanges, cook dinner for you and your guests, photograph rooms for rent, and through the ride-sharing business Lyft, turn their cars into taxis to drive you around. “It used to be that corporations and brands had all the trust,” added Chesky, but now a total stranger, “can be trusted like a company and provide the services of a company. And once you unlock that idea, it is so much bigger than homes. ... There is a whole generation of people that don’t want everything mass produced. They want things that are unique and personal.”
Airbnb同时构建了自己的生态体系：周遭的普通人开始为你打扫房屋、协调钥匙移交、为你和你的客人烹制晚餐、给房间拍照以供出租，并通过拼车服务Lyft把自己的车用作出租车带着客人四处游览。“过去只有企业和品牌才能享有这样的信任，”切斯基又讲道，但现在陌生人“就能享有企业才能享有的信任感并提供企业式的服务。而这一点你一旦想通了，就会明白这不仅仅是住在哪儿的问题......有整整一代人他们不喜欢什么都是批量生产的，他们渴望那些独特的、有个人印记的产品。
There’s more. In a world where, as I’ve argued, average is over — the skills required for any good job keep rising — a lot of people who might not be able to acquire those skills can still earn a good living now by building their own branded reputations, whether it is to rent their kids’ rooms, their cars or their power tools. “There are 80 million power drills in America that are used an average of 13 minutes,” says Chesky. “Does everyone really need their own drill?”
当然不仅如此。正如我以前讲过，如今理想的工作对于技能水平的要求不断提升，一般水平已经远远不够了。但很多没有专业技术的人仍然可以通过建立自己的品牌形象，来出租孩子以前的卧室、自己的汽车甚至是电动工具，从而挣得一份不错的生活。切斯基提到，“在美国，有8千万个电钻的平均使用时间仅为13分钟。有必要人人自备电钻吗？”
More than 50 percent of Airbnb hosts depend on it to pay their rent or mortgage today, Chesky added: “Ordinary people can now be micro-entrepreneurs.” Jamie Wong, co-founder of Vayable.com, a platform through which locals anywhere can become custom tour guides of their area, told me: “I moved out of my apartment in central San Francisco, rented a cheaper annex in a friend’s home, and ‘airbnb-ed’ my apartment for $200 a night and earned about $20,000 in a year. It enabled me to bootstrap my start-up. Airbnb was our first round of funding!” And just think how much better all this is for the environment — for people to be renting their spare bedrooms rather than building another Holiday Inn and another and another. ... The sharing economy  — watch this space. This is powerful.
如今Airbnb网站有一半以上的房主靠这份收入来支付他们自己的房租或房贷，切斯基还指出，“普通人正在转变为微型企业家。”帮助本地普通人提供订制导游服务的网络平台Vayable.com的联合创始人杰米·黄(Jamie Wong)告诉我：“我从旧金山市中心的公寓搬出来，以较为便宜的租金租住在朋友家的一个小屋子里，然后通过Airbnb以每晚200美元的价格出租了我的公寓，并在一年里挣了2万美元，这成为了我自己公司的启动资金。Airbnb为我们提供了第一轮融资！”想想看吧，这一切对于环境是多么有益：人们出租空余房间，而不必去兴建一个又一个的假日酒店……分享型经济，让我们拭目以待。这太具震撼性了。