BEIRUT — Day after day, the Syrian civil war has ground down a cultural and political center of the Middle East, turning it into a stage for disaster and cruelty on a nearly incomprehensible scale. Families are brutalized by their government and by jihadists claiming to be their saviors as nearly half of Syrians — many of them children — have been driven from their homes.
贝鲁特——叙利亚内战在日复一日地蹂躏着这个中东文化和政治中心，把它变成了一个灾难和暴行的舞台，剧烈程度几乎无法估量。有近一半叙利亚平民已被驱离家园，当中有许多人是儿童，他们受到了政府和自称是救星的伊斯兰圣战分子的残酷对待。
At the start of the fourth year since Syrians rose up in a peaceful movement that turned to arms after violent repression, a snapshot of the country presents the harsh truth that Syria’s descent is only accelerating, with nothing to check it.
四年前，一场和平的运动在遭受暴力镇压后演变成了武装斗争，叙利亚人揭竿而起，现在这场战争刚进入第四个年头，这个国家的掠影呈现了一个残酷的现实，叙利亚的溃塌在加速，没有什么能遏制这个势头。
The government bombards neighborhoods with explosive barrels, missiles, heavy artillery and, the United States says, chemical weapons, then it sends in its allies in Hezbollah and other militias to wage street warfare. It jails and tortures peaceful activists, and uses starvation as a weapon, blockading opposition areas where trapped children shrivel and die.
政府用爆炸油桶、导弹，重型火炮轰炸了街区，然后派遣自己在真主党(Hezbollah)内的盟友和其他民兵发动了街头战争，据美国方面称，他们还使用了化学武器。政府把和平活动人士关进监狱加以折磨，并以饥饿为武器，封锁了反对派占领的区域，那里的被困儿童在不断地消瘦和死去。
The opposition is now functionally dominated by foreign-led jihadists who commit their own abuses in the name of their extremist ideology, just last week shooting a 7-year-old boy for what they claimed was apostasy. And some of those fighters, too, have targeted civilians and used siege tactics.
抵抗活动现在已经由外国人领导的圣战分子控制，他们以自己奉行的极端意识形态为名实施暴行，就在上周，他们刚击毙了一名七岁的男孩，声称他是叛徒。他们当中的一些作战人员也以平民为目标，动用了围困战术。
It is not as if the world has no evidence of Syria’s ordeal, which has killed an estimated 150,000 people. Syrians have issued a sustained, collective cry for help from what is now probably history’s most-documented manmade disaster. They capture appalling suffering on video and beam the images out to the world: skeletal infants, body parts pulled from the rubble of homes, faces stretched by despair, over and over.
外界并非没有掌握叙利亚正在受难的证据，死难者估计已经达到了15万。在这场也许是史上记录最详尽的人为灾难中，叙利亚人发出了共同的、持续的呼救。他们用视频捕捉到了令人震惊的苦难场景，把图像一遍又一遍地放送到全球：骨瘦如柴的婴儿、从民居瓦砾中刨出来的尸体残骸，被绝望紧绷着的面孔。
Despite that, to the bitterness of Syrians, the world’s diplomatic attention is drifting. Even as Syria’s epic suffering is remaking the human geography of the Middle East and beyond, initiatives to ease the crisis have sputtered and failed to offer effective help. Already tenuous hopes for an internationally brokered peace settlement have further faded as Russian-American relations worsen.
尽管如此，全球对叙利亚人的苦难给予的外交关注正在消退。此刻叙利亚遭受的巨大苦难正在重塑中东及以外地区的人文地理版图，然而缓和危机的行动却运作不畅，无法提供有效的帮助。在国际社会调停下达成和解的希望本已经很渺茫，随着美俄关系恶化，更是变得遥不可及。
The country is threatened with de facto partition among the government, Kurdish militias and a patchwork of insurgent groups, some seeking to impose extremist Islamist rule. Criminal gangs profit from chaos, and pro-government militias increasingly threaten to slip from state control. A regional proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran further polarizes the conflict and fuels its sectarian dimension.
实质上的分裂对叙利亚构成了威胁，分裂的一边是政府、一边是库尔德民兵组织，还有一边是由反对派武装团体拼凑起来的杂牌军，其中有部分人在寻求极端主义的伊斯兰统治。犯罪团伙从一片混乱中受益，亲政府的民兵组织日渐威胁要脱离政府控制。沙特阿拉伯和伊朗间接主导的区域战争在进一步驱使冲突走向两极化，冲突的宗派性由此被激化了。
Adding to the urgency is the growing scale of regional destabilization. With nine million Syrians driven from their homes, according to the United Nations, 2.5 million of them into nearby countries, the Syrian displacement dwarfs the exodus from British-mandate Palestine during the war over Israel’s founding in 1948, a flight of 750,000 people that fuels conflict and hardship to this day.
让局面更加危急的是，该区域的不稳定程度正在加剧。根据联合国(United Nations)的数据，有900万叙利亚人被赶出家园，其中有250万人被驱散到了邻国，背井离乡的叙利亚人让1948年的以色列建国战争中，离开英国托管的巴勒斯坦的大量出逃者都相形见绌，那次的出逃人口达到了75万，其引发的冲突和苦难持续至今。
“It’s not just a humanitarian issue, a need to feed people,” Dr. Fouad M. Fouad, a Syrian doctor who studies the impact of the conflict, told a conference at the American University of Beirut last week. “It’s a historical, geopolitical issue.”
研究冲突影响的叙利亚博士福阿德·M·福阿德(Fouad M. Fouad)说，“这不仅是一个人道主义问题，也不仅是饥饿群体要得到救助的问题。这是一个历史和地缘政治问题。”
Aid workers are scrambling to refocus public attention on Syria. Most urgent is ending the conflict, they say; all else at best mitigates the disaster. At the same time, they fear that governments — including the United States, the United Nations’ largest donor — could lose interest in financing the organization’s largest aid appeal in history, $4.4 billion for Syria in 2013 alone.
救援人员急于把公众的注意力重新牵回叙利亚。他们说，最紧迫的任务是终结战争；其次是缓解灾情。同时，他们担忧各国政府——包括联合国最大的捐助者美国——也许会对资助联合国历史上规模最大的援助请求丧失兴趣，该援助仅在2013年就用去了44亿美元（约合272亿元人民币）。
Private donations for Syrians have lagged far behind those for other emergencies, like the recent typhoon in the Philippines, international aid groups say.
国际援助组织表示， 对叙利亚的私人捐款远远落后于对其他紧急情况的援助，比如菲律宾最近发生的台风灾害。
Yet on Syria’s borders, no one can miss the flood of refugees, or the inadequacy of the international response. The crisis is spreading disease, upending neighboring economies and creating a “lost generation” of Syrian children, who before the war almost universally attended elementary school. Now fewer than half are in school; among refugees in neighboring Lebanon, the figure is 12 percent.
然而，没人能忽略叙利亚边境上潮水般的难民，或者忽略国际社会不足的应对反应。这场危机正在传播疾病、摧毁邻国的经济、在叙利亚儿童中制造“失落的一代”，内战爆发前，几乎所有叙利亚儿童都会上小学。现在，上小学的叙利亚儿童还不足一半；在逃往邻国黎巴嫩的叙利亚难民中，这个数字是12%。
Analysts say that 42 percent of all Syrians, more than New York City’s population, have fled their homes. An equivalent catastrophe in the United States would mean 131 million Americans on the move.
分析人士说，有42%的叙利亚人已背井离乡，这比纽约市的人口还多。如果这样的一场灾难发生在美国，将意味着1.31亿美国人逃离。
In Lebanon, an unstable country smaller than Connecticut, the United Nations has documented 962,000 Syrians registered for aid or awaiting registration. Lebanon hosts more refugees per capita than any country since famine-stricken Ethiopians flooded Somalia 34 years ago.
联合国的记录显示，在比康涅狄格州面积更小的局势动荡的黎巴嫩，有9.62万叙利亚人不是已登记在册，等待援助，就是还在等候登记。自34年前饱受饥荒折磨的埃塞俄比亚人大量涌入索马里以来，黎巴嫩人均收容难民人数已超出了其他任何国家。
Syria’s collapse has other effects. Poor Lebanese suffer from the loss of affordable medicines and health care they once got by crossing into Syria. Regional trade is gutted. In Jordan, increased water usage is depleting the supply, according to Mercy Corps, as the Zaatari refugee camp has grown into the world’s second-largest.
叙利亚的崩溃还产生了其他影响。贫穷的黎巴嫩人过去会穿过边境进入叙利亚，来购买低价药品和医疗服务，但如今这也没有了。地区贸易遭到彻底破坏。据国际美慈组织(Mercy Corps)透露，在约旦，随着扎塔里难民营变成全球第二大难民营，日渐增加的用水正在耗尽该国的水源供应。