Few spirits are as American as bourbon. But the maker of some of whiskey’s most iconic brands, including Jim Beam and Maker’s Mark, will soon belong to an acquisitive Japanese beverage maker.
很少有酒具有波旁威士忌那样的美国特性。然而，不久之后，占边威士忌(Jim Beam)、美格(Maker's Mark)等最具代表性的威士忌品牌的制造商就将归属一家贪婪的日本饮料制造商。
In a deal announced on Monday to buy Beam Inc. for $13.6 billion, Suntory of Japan struck one of the biggest takeovers in the liquor business in years, transforming it into the third-largest distiller globally.
周一，日本的三得利公司(Suntory)宣布将以136亿美元（约合822亿元人民币）的价格收购Beam股份有限公司，由此成为全球第三大蒸馏厂，这是数年来酒类行业中最大的收购案之一。
The acquisition may also signal the last mega-deal in the spirits industry for some time. Beam has long been considered the most attractive big target for consolidation. Rivals like Brown-Forman, the maker of Jack Daniel’s, are controlled by families, performing well on their own and have shown little interest in potential takeovers.
该收购案还可能是烈酒行业一段时间以内的最后一次大型交易。Beam一直被认为是最具吸引力的兼并目标。杰克丹尼威士忌(Jack Daniel’s)生产商百富门公司(Brown-Forman)等竞争对手都是家族企业，它们本身业绩良好，对潜在的收购案兴趣不大。
The giants of the business — Diageo of Britain and Pernod Ricard of France — face many constraints on their ability to grow by mergers. While the two companies had considered bidding for the American whiskey producer, neither ultimately moved ahead.
业内巨头——英国帝亚吉欧集团(Diageo)和法国保乐力加公司(Pernod Ricard)——通过并购获得增长的能力有限。这两家公司都曾考虑竞购这家美国威士忌生产商，最终却没有采取行动。
Beam instead was claimed by Suntory, a privately held concern whose beverage empire already encompasses Yamazaki Japanese whisky and Bowmore Scotch. If completed, the deal will add not only Jim Beam, but also pricier higher-end brands like Baker’s and Knob Creek bourbon, Laphroaig and Teacher’s Scotch and Courvoisier cognac.
收购Beam的是私人公司三得利，该饮料集团已经拥有山崎日本威士忌(Yamazaki)和波摩苏格兰威士忌(Bowmore)两大品牌。如果完成收购，该交易带来的不仅是占边威士忌，还有一些更加昂贵的高端品牌，比如Baker's、留名溪威士忌(Knob Creek)、拉弗格(Laphroaig)、提切斯苏格兰威士忌(Teacher’s Scotch)和拿破仑干邑(Courvoisier)。
Founded 115 years ago, Suntory created Japan’s first distillery in 1923 using the principles of Scotch whisky production. But it has since grown into a sprawling conglomerate that spans fitness clubs, Subway restaurants, fresh flowers and golf ranges. Nobutada Saji, the company’s chairman and the grandson of its founder, is among his country’s richest men.
创立于115年前的三得利公司于1923年建造了日本的第一家蒸馏厂，采用苏格兰威士忌的酿造原理。不过，该公司后来发展成为一个规模庞大的集团，涉足健身俱乐部、赛百味(Subway)餐厅、鲜花及高尔夫球场。身为公司董事长的创始人之孙佐治信忠(Nobutada Saji)是日本最富有的人之一。
(In the United States the company is perhaps best known for the commercial that Bill Murray’s character recorded in the 2003 movie “Lost in Translation,” which featured the slogan: “For relaxing times, make it Suntory time.”)
（在美国，三得利最为人知的可能是2003年电影《迷失东京》[Lost in Translation]中比尔·默里[Bill Murray]所扮演的角色录制的商业广告，广告词是：“闲暇时间，尽享三得利。”）
In recent years, Suntory has been expanding aggressively overseas to counteract a shrinking market at home in Japan, where the population is declining. Its subsidiary, Suntory Beverage & Food, controls the European drink company Orangina Schweppes, and last year bought the Lucozade and Ribena brands from GlaxoSmithKline for £1.35 billion ($2.1 billion).
近些年，三得利一直在积极扩展海外市场，以弥补逐渐萎缩的国内市场，因为日本的人口正在不断下降。三得利的子公司三得利饮料食品公司(Suntory Beverage & Food)控制了欧洲饮料公司Orangina Schweppes，并于去年以13.5亿英镑（约合21亿美元）从葛兰素史克(GlaxoSmithKline)手中收购了葡萄适(Lucozade)和利宾纳(Ribena)品牌。
Buying Beam will bring Suntory’s total annual revenue to $4.3 billion and bolster the Japanese company’s presence in the United States market.
收购占边威士忌将使三得利的总计年收入达到43亿美元，提升了这家日本公司在美国市场的地位。
“I believe this combination will create a spirits business with a product portfolio unmatched throughout the world and allow us to achieve further global growth,” Mr. Saji said in a statement.
佐治信忠在声明中说，“我认为，此次合并将创造一个烈酒企业，其产品组合在全球范围内无人能敌，使我们能在全球范围内取得进一步的增长。”
Though it had begun weighing a deal for Beam in the second half of 2011, Suntory did not formally approach its American counterpart until around this past Thanksgiving, according to people briefed on the matter. By then, the Japanese drinks company had raised about 390 billion yen, or $3.8 billion, by partly listing its nonalcoholic beverages business on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
据了解此事的人士透露，三得利从2011年下半年就开始考虑收购占边威士忌，不过，该公司一直没有正式接触它的美国同行，直到去年感恩节前后，这种情况才有所改变。截至那时，这家日本饮料公司已经通过在东京证券交易所(Tokyo Stock Exchange)上市其部分非酒精饮料业务筹得了约3900亿日元（约合380亿美元）的资金。
It had also secured a financing commitment from the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, one of Japan’s biggest banks.
三得利还获得了日本最大银行之一三菱东京日联银行(Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ)的融资承诺担保。
A number of factors helped pave the way for a quick deal. The two companies already have a business relationship: Suntory distributes Beam’s products in Japan, while the American company does the same for its partner in other Asian countries like Singapore.
种种因素帮三得利铺平了道路，使之和占边迅速达成了交易。两家公司本来就有业务联系：三得利在日本经销占边的产品，而占边则在新加坡等其他亚洲国家为它的伙伴经营同样的业务。
Suntory is paying a rich price for its expansion. It is offering Beam shareholders $83.50 a share in cash, a 25 percent premium to the American company’s closing stock price on Friday of $66.97. The deal values the bourbon maker at more than 20 times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the 12 months ended Sept. 30.
为了扩展业务，三得利不惜血本。三得利给占边股东提供了每股83.5美元的报价，方式为现金支付，该报价较占边上周五的66.97美元收盘价有25%的溢价。此单交易对这家波旁威士忌酒酿造商的估值，比其在截至去年9月30日之前的12个月里的收入高出了不止20倍，该收入未扣除利息、税金、拆旧及摊销。
“It’s a good deal for Beam shareholders,” said John Faucher, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase. “Looking at the rapid growth we’ve seen in bourbon over the recent years, Beam is doing a good job seizing the moment, striking while the iron is hot.”
摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)分析师约翰·福奇尔(John Faucher)说，“对占边的股东而言，这是一单不错的交易。近些年，我们目睹了波旁威士忌的迅速发展，看看这一点，我们就知道，占边抓住时机趁热打铁，干了件漂亮活。”
Shares in Beam leaped 24.6 percent on Monday to $83.42, only 8 cents below Suntory’s offer. That suggests investors are not counting on a rival bid to emerge.
周一，占边威士忌的股价飙升了24.6%，升至83.42美元，只比三得利的报价低8美分。这一迹象表明，投资者不认为会出现竞价。