SEOUL, South Korea — A special prosecutor investigating the corruption scandal that led to President Park Geun-hye’s impeachment summoned the de facto head of Samsung for questioning on Wednesday, calling him a bribery suspect.
韩国首尔——周三，就导致朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)总统遭劾案的腐败丑闻展开调查的特别检察官传唤了三星(Samsung)事实上的领导者，并称其为行贿嫌疑人。
The de facto leader, Jay Y. Lee, the vice chairman of Samsung, will be questioned on Thursday, according to the special prosecutor’s office, which recommended that he also be investigated on suspicion of perjury. Mr. Lee effectively runs Samsung, South Korea’s largest conglomerate; he is the son of its chairman, Lee Kun-hee, who has been incapacitated with health problems.
特别检察官办公室称，这名事实上的领导者，也就是三星副董事长李在镕(Jay Y. Lee)，将在周四接受质询。据该办公室介绍，他还将因涉嫌作伪证而接受调查。李在镕是韩国最大财团三星的实际运营者；他的父亲、三星董事长李健熙(Lee Kun-hee)因健康问题无法处理公司事务。
He is expected to be asked whether multimillion-dollar donations that Samsung made to two foundations controlled by Choi Soon-sil, a longtime friend of the president, amounted to bribes, and what role, if any, he played in the decision to give the money. Investigators at the special prosecutor’s office have questioned other senior Samsung executives as suspects about the bribery accusations.
预计他会被问到三星向两家基金会捐赠的数百万美元款项，这两家基金会均受控于总统老友崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)，而这些款项已被算作贿赂；此外他还会被问到他在三星的捐款决策过程中扮演了怎样的角色——如果他确有参与其中。三星的其他一些高管已经以行贿嫌疑人的身份接受了特别检察官办公室调查人员的质询。
Neither Samsung nor Mr. Lee responded immediately to the announcement on Wednesday.
三星和李在镕均未立即就周三的消息进行回应。
Allegations that Ms. Park helped Ms. Choi extort millions in bribes from Samsung and other companies are at the heart of the corruption scandal that led to the National Assembly’s vote to impeach her last month. Since then, Ms. Park’s powers have been suspended, and she is on trial at the Constitutional Court, which will ultimately decide whether to end her presidency.
国民大会(National Assembly)于上月投票决定因腐败丑闻而弹劾朴槿惠，她帮助崔顺实从三星等公司索贿数百万美元的指控是其中最核心的事件。自从那时起，朴槿惠的职权便被暂时冻结，她目前正接受宪法法院(Constitutional Court)的审讯，该法院将最终决定是否解除她的总统职务。
Last month, Mr. Lee testified at a National Assembly hearing that he was not involved in the decision by Samsung to make the donations. He also said that the donations were not voluntary, suggesting that the company was a victim of extortion, not a participant in bribery.
上个月，李在镕在国民大会的一个听证会上作证称，他并未参与三星的捐款决策。他还说这些捐款并不是自愿捐出的，暗示三星是索贿的受害者，而非参与行贿。
The reference on Wednesday to possible perjury charges against Mr. Lee stemmed from that testimony. The special prosecutor’s office said it had evidence that Mr. Lee had “received a request for bribery from the president and ordered Samsung subsidiaries to send bribes to destinations designated by the president.”
周三传出的李在镕可能被控作伪证的说法就源于那些证词。特别是检察官办公室称其掌握的证据显示，李在镕“收到来自总统的索贿要求以后，命令三星子公司把贿款送到了总统指定的地点。”
It asked the National Assembly to file a perjury complaint against Mr. Lee, which would authorize the special prosecutor to open an investigation of that charge.
该办公室提请国民大会指控李在镕作伪证，这样一来特别检察官便可以就这一指控展开调查。
Asked whether investigators would seek to arrest Mr. Lee on bribery charges, a spokesman for the special prosecutor’s office, Lee Kyu-chul, said, “All possibilities are open.”
当被问及调查人员是否会寻求以行贿罪逮捕李在镕时，特别检察官办公室的发言人李圭喆(Lee Kyu-chul)回答，“一切皆有可能。”
In November, state prosecutors indicted Ms. Choi on charges of coercing 53 big businesses, including Samsung, to contribute $69 million to her two foundations. They identified Ms. Park as an accomplice but stopped short of filing any charges against the businesses, all of which insisted that they were under government pressure to donate.
去年11月，国家检查官指控崔顺实涉嫌强迫包括三星在内的59家大企业向她的两家基金会捐款6900万美元。他们把朴槿惠列为崔的同谋，但没有对企业提起任何指控，这些企业全都坚称是迫于政府压力才捐了款。
In its impeachment bill, the National Assembly asserted that the donations were bribes, made with the expectation of political favors from the president.
国民大会在其弹劾议案中称，这些捐款是贿金，行贿的目的是希望从总统那里得到政治上的好处。
The special prosecutor, which took over the investigations from the state prosecutors last month, has been looking into possible bribery charges against not only Ms. Park but the businesses, particularly Samsung. Ms. Park cannot be indicted while in office.
特别检察官于上月从国家检察官手上接管了调查工作，一直在调查对朴槿惠乃至这些企业——尤其是三星——提起贿赂指控的可能性。朴槿惠担任总统期间不能被起诉。
Samsung gave the largest donations to Ms. Choi’s foundations, totaling $17 million. Unlike the other corporate contributors, it went beyond support for the foundations, signing an $18 million contract with a sports management company that Ms. Choi ran in Germany, to fund a program for training Korean equestrians, which mainly benefited Ms. Choi’s daughter. Samsung also contributed $1.3 million to a winter sports program for young athletes that Ms. Choi and her nephew ran.
三星向崔顺实基金会的捐款是所有企业中最多的，总计1700万美元。和其他企业捐赠者不同，它在支持基金会之余，还和崔顺实在德国运营的一家体育管理公司签了一份价值1800万美元的合同，资助一个培训韩国马术骑手的项目，崔顺实的女儿是该项目的主要受益人。三星还向崔顺实及其外甥运营的一个面向年轻运动员的冬季体育项目捐赠了130万美元。
Also on Wednesday, the special prosecutor’s office said it had acquired a tablet computer used by Ms. Choi that contained emails she exchanged with a Samsung executive. The emails contained information about the financial support provided by Samsung, the prosecutor’s office said.
特别检察官办公室在周三还表示，它拿到了一部崔顺实使用过的平板电脑，里边有崔顺实和一名三星高管的邮件往来。特别检察官办公称，那些邮件里含有关于三星提供的财务支持的信息。
The special prosecutor has been investigating whether Samsung gave its support to Ms. Choi in exchange for a decision by the government-controlled National Pension Service to support a contentious merger of two Samsung affiliates in 2015. Moon Hyung-pyo, chairman of the pension fund, was arrested last month on charges that he illegally pressured the fund to back that merger when he was South Korea’s health and welfare minister.
三星在2015年对两家子公司进行的合并引起争议，特别检察官一直在调查公司是否曾以对崔顺实的资助换取国有基金国民年金公团(National Pension Service)对合并案的支持。该基金董事长文亨杓(Moon Hyung-pyo)于上月被捕，被控在担任韩国卫生福利部长期间非法向该基金施压，敦促其支持合并案。
The national pension fund’s support was crucial for the merger, which analysts said helped Mr. Lee inherit control of Samsung from his father.
此次合并为李在镕从父亲手中接掌三星铺平了道路，而这家国家养老基金的支持对合并案的达成至关重要。