Samsung Electronics, the No. 1 handset maker, beat Apple to making smartphones with larger screens. Now the company wants to make an aggressive play in the tablet market with extra-large tablets.
三星电子(Samsung Electronics)是全球头号手机厂商，并在苹果之前推出了大屏智能手机。现在，该公司又打算用超大尺寸的产品在平板电脑市场上发起强劲攻势。
The South Korean manufacturer on Monday introduced four new tablets aimed at professional users, including two 12.2-inch tablets — the Galaxy NotePRO and the TabPRO. These are much larger than Apple’s 9.7-inch iPad, Microsoft’s 10.6-inch Surface 2 and Amazon’s 8.9-inch Kindle Fire. (The NotePRO tablet comes with a stylus; the TabPRO does not include a stylus and comes in two other sizes: 10.1 inches and 8.4 inches.)
本周一，这家韩国厂商推出了四款面向专业用户的新平板电脑，其中包括两款12.2英寸的产品：Galaxy NotePRO和TabPRO。它们比苹果9.7英寸的iPad，微软10.6英寸的Surface 2和亚马逊8.9英寸的Kindle Fire都大得多。（NotePRO配备了手写笔；TabPRO不含手写笔，还有其他两款，分别为10.1英寸和8.4英寸。）
Samsung said in a product briefing on Sunday that the company decided to make another size for tablets to cater to other needs, especially professional users who need a bigger screen for more complex tasks. The tablet also includes software for professionals, like an e-Meeting app, a collaborative tool that allows users to share content during meetings.
在周日的产品发布会上，三星说，该公司决定为平板电脑家族引入一个新的尺寸，以满足其他方面的需求，特别是需要使用更大屏幕来处理更复杂任务的专业用户。这种平板电脑还预装了为专业用户开发的软件，比如电子会议应用，用户可以在会议中使用这个协作类工具共享内容。
On top of that, Samsung refreshed the traditional Android interface. Instead of grids of icons for a home screen, the tablets show a magazine-like layout that separates apps and content into different tiles and pages.
此外，三星还对传统Android界面进行了更改。这些平板电脑没有在主屏上显示网格状排列的图标，而是采用了类似杂志的布局，把不同的应用和内容放在不同的磁贴和页面上。
Though the 12.2-inch tablets sound as if they could be cumbersome, they aren’t too heavy. The 12.1-inch Galaxy NotePRO weighs about 1.7 pounds, and the TabPRO weighs about 1.6 pounds.Samsung’s emphasis on professional users for tablets is a direct effort to compete with Microsoft’s Surface tablets, which are marketed as a more viable replacement for a laptop suitable for work. But it is also an effort to take on Apple, whose iPads are widely used by workers in various fields, like construction, medicine and food service.
12.2英寸的平板电脑听上去好像很沉重，其实它们并不太重。12.1英寸的Galaxy NotePRO重约1.7磅（771克），而TabPRO重约1.6磅。三星把平板电脑产品的重点放在专业用户上，将会跟微软Surface展开正面竞争，微软把Surface宣传为针对工作型笔记本电脑的较为可行的替代品。但是，这也是对苹果发起的一个冲击，因为苹果ipad作为工作设备，在建筑、医药和食品服务等领域中得到广泛使用。
Apple is No. 1 in the tablet market, with a 29.6 percent market share in the third quarter last year, according to IDC. And Samsung is No. 2, with about 20.4 percent of the market in the same period.
苹果在平板电脑市场中位居第一，研究公司国际数据公司(IDC)的数据显示，该公司去年第三季度占据了29.6%的市场份额。排在第二位的是三星，同期约占20.4%的市场份额。
Samsung said pricing and availability for the new tablets would come later. But the company said the new tablets would be positioned as high-end products and would be released globally some time in the first quarter.
三星表示，这些平板电脑的具体定价和发售时间将在日后宣布。但该公司表示，它们被定位为高端产品，将于今年第一季度在全球范围内发售。