Samsung Electronics is the world leader in smartphone sales, besting Apple in many countries. Now Samsung of South Korea is stepping up its challenge to Apple, bringing the battle to its rival’s home turf.
在智能手机销售领域，三星电子(Samsung Electronics)是全球领袖，在许多国家都打败了苹果(Apple)。如今，韩国三星正在加大对苹果的挑战，将战火烧到了竞争对手的地盘上。
At a news conference in New York on Thursday, its first American promotional event for its flagship smartphone, Samsung showed off the Galaxy S 4, which has a screen slightly larger than the latest iPhone.
周四在纽约举行的新闻发布会，是三星为其旗舰款智能手机举行的首场美国宣传活动。在发布会上，三星骄傲地展示了Galaxy S 4，这款手机的屏幕比最新款iPhone的屏幕略大。
The device has quirky software features, including Smart Scroll, in which the front camera detects when someone is looking at the phone, and scrolls the screen according to the angle the phone is tilted. The phone can also be controlled with hand gestures. Waving a hand down in front of the phone will scroll up on a Web page, for example.
这款手机拥有一些奇特的软件功能，包括Smart Scroll功能。有了这个功能，前置摄像头就能检测到有人在看手机，并根据手机倾斜的角度来翻页。这款手机还可以通过手势来控制。比如，在手机前方往下挥手就能让网页向上滚动。
“Once you spend time with the Galaxy S 4, I’m very confident you’ll find how its innovations make your life simple and fuller,” said JK Shin, president of Samsung Mobile Communications.
“用了一阵Galaxy S 4之后，我敢肯定你会发现，这款手机的创新设计让你的生活简单却又更丰富，”三星移动通讯(Samsung Mobile Communications)总裁申宗均(JK Shin)说。
With the prominent introduction of the phone, Samsung is trying to end its role as understudy to its more celebrated competitor, especially in the crucial American market, where Apple still rules. Even as Samsung has surpassed Apple in global market share, it is often criticized in the United States as an effective copycat, taking most of its product cues from Apple. But Samsung has begun flexing its marketing muscle more aggressively here to try to change that perception.
三星高调推出这款手机，目的是从此结束自己为更有名的竞争对手充当替补的局面，尤其是在非常关键的美国市场，因为苹果仍是美国市场的统治者。三星已在全球市场份额上超过了苹果，美国的批评人士却常常指责三星实际上是个盲目模仿者，大部分的产品创意都来自苹果。但三星已经开始在美国更大胆地展示自己的营销实力，试图改变这种看法。
“This is Samsung’s time right now,” said Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray. “They are clearly gaining more attention this time around than they ever have.”
“三星的时代已经到了，”派杰(Piper Jaffray)的分析师基尼·蒙斯特(Gene Munster)说，“此时此刻，他们显然获得了比以往任何时候都多的关注。”
Apple itself is showing signs of concern. In an unusual move on the eve of the Samsung event, Philip W. Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president for worldwide marketing, gave several interviews in which he discussed flaws in mobile devices based on Android, the Google operating system used by most of Samsung’s smartphones.
苹果自身也表现出了担忧的迹象。在三星举行此次活动的前夕，苹果负责全球营销的高级副总裁菲利普·W·席勒(Philip W. Schiller)一反常态地接受了几次采访，并在采访中讨论了以Android操作系统为基础的移动设备存在的缺陷。三星的大部分智能手机用的都是谷歌的Android操作系统。
Apple still has many big advantages that allow it to defend its position in the mobile business. Its iPhone 5 was the best-selling smartphone in the world in the holiday quarter, even though Samsung’s vast portfolio of phones is bigger than Apple’s. By charging a premium for its products, Apple raked in 69 percent of the profits in the smartphone business last year, compared with 34 percent for Samsung, according to a report by T. Michael Walkley, an analyst with Canaccord Genuity.
苹果依然拥有许多显著优势，这些优势使它得以维护自己在移动业务领域的地位。在假日销售季，苹果的iPhone 5是全球最畅销的的智能手机，尽管三星手机庞大的手机产品组合比苹果的大。加通贝祥(Canaccord Genuity)的分析师T·迈克尔·沃克利(T. Michael Walkley)撰写的一份报告称，通过对产品收取超额费用，苹果去年从智能手机业务中获取了69%的利润，而三星只有34%的利润来自智能手机。
While analysts like Mr. Munster expect Samsung to gain market share in the United States in the coming two quarters, they predict Apple is likely to still dominate the crucial holiday shopping season, when gift shoppers buy mobile devices in droves. That is when sales of the iPhone typically outperform all other devices. By unveiling its flagship phone just before spring, Samsung is striking at Apple months before a new iPhone is expected to be released.
像蒙斯特这样的分析人士预计，三星未来两个季度在美国的市场份额会增加，尽管如此，他们还是预言，在非常关键的假日购物季中，苹果仍可能占主导地位。在假日购物季，买礼物的人会成群结队地购买移动设备。这通常也是iPhone的销售业绩超过所有其他设备的时候。三星在春天即将到来的时候揭晓旗下的旗舰款手机，目的是在离新款iPhone手机预计的发布时间还有好几个月的时候向苹果出击。
“Everyone stays out of the zone of iPhone launch periods,” said Horace Dediu, a blogger and analyst with Asymco.
“所有人都会避开iPhone发布新产品的时间段，”Asymco的博客作者兼分析师贺拉斯·德迪欧(Horace Dediu)说。
Apple’s iPhones fly off the shelves in the United States, but Samsung is still the top seller of smartphones worldwide. And in the United States, Samsung is gaining.
苹果的iPhone手机在美国热销，但三星依然是全球销量最高的智能手机品牌。而在美国，三星也正在崛起。
In the fourth quarter of 2012, sales of Samsung devices accounted for 30 percent of the American smartphone market, up from 21 percent the previous year, according to NPD Group, the research firm. For the same time period, Apple’s iPhone accounted for 39 percent of the market, down from 41 percent the previous year.
根据研究公司NPD集团(NPD Group)提供的数据，2012年第四季度，三星设备的销售额占美国智能手机市场的30%，而上年同期数据只有21%。苹果公司iPhone同期所占市场份额为39%，上年同期数据则为41%。
Samsung is far exceeding Apple in its rate of growth worldwide. In the holiday quarter last year, Samsung shipped 63.7 million smartphones, up 76 percent from the previous year, according to IDC, the research firm. Apple sold 47.8 million, up 29.2 percent from the previous year.
三星在全球增长率方面已遥遥领先于苹果。研究公司国际数据公司(IDC)称，去年的假日销售季，三星取得了6370万部的智能手机出货量，同比增长76%。苹果则售出了4780万台手机，同比增长29.2%。
Samsung has won the global volume race by releasing multiple models of smartphones at different prices and sizes, while Apple has released one new model every year. Along with the Galaxy S III, the Note II, a Samsung phone with an even bigger screen, has been a popular seller.
通过发布价格尺寸各异的多型号智能手机，三星已赢得了全球销量的竞争，而苹果每年仅发布一款新机。与Galaxy S III一样，拥有更大屏幕的三星手机Note II也成为了畅销品。
“Samsung’s momentum has been tremendous if you look at where they were three years ago to where it is today in the smartphone market,” said Chris Jones, an analyst at Canalys.
Canalys的分析师克里斯·琼斯(Chris Jones)表示，“比较一下三星三年前和今年的智能手机市场地位，就可以看出它的上升势头极其强劲。”
Apple of Cupertino, Calif., is famous for products that create markets, as was the case with the iPhone and iPad. Apple has accused Samsung of stealing many of its best ideas in the mobile market. Last year, it convinced a jury that Samsung had infringed Apple patents, winning a $1 billion award that a federal judge in the case recently reduced to $600 million. Some recent moves by Apple have appeared to be in response at least in part to competition from Samsung. It released a smaller iPad and a bigger iPhone after Samsung had been selling smaller tablets and smartphones with bigger screens for a while.
总部位于加利福尼亚州丘珀蒂诺的苹果公司因研发创造新市场的产品闻名，比如iPhone和iPad。苹果指责三星在手机市场上窃取了自己最棒的一些点子。去年，苹果使陪审团认定三星侵犯了苹果的专利，并赢得10亿美元的损害赔偿。最近，一名联邦法官将这一赔偿降至6亿美元。苹果近期的一些举动似乎至少是部分出于对三星竞争的回应。三星销售了一阵小平板和大屏幕智能手机后，苹果发布了一款迷你iPad和一款大屏幕iPhone。
“Right now Apple is the challenger, and basically the power dynamics have changed already,” said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst at Alekstra, which helps companies reduce their phone bills. “Suddenly, Apple looks a little defensive.”
致力于为企业客户降低手机费用的Alekstra公司的分析师泰罗·库伊蒂宁(Tero Kuittinen)说，“现在，苹果处在了挑战者的位置，权力的风向基本上已经发生了转变。突然之间，苹果看着有点儿防守的意思了。”
Before Thursday’s introduction, Samsung’s new smartphone generated nearly as much discussion and excitement in technology blogs as a new iPhone. “This is like the hype around the iPhone was two years ago,” Mr. Kuittinen said. “A year ago nobody cared about Samsung Galaxy S III. It’s not like the tech blogs wrote five posts a day about it.“
周四的发布会之前，三星新智能手机在技术博客圈中激起的讨论和兴奋几乎与新iPhone发布时毫无二致。库伊蒂宁说，“这就像是两年前围绕iPhone的狂热。一年前，没人在乎三星的Galaxy S III。技术博客不会一天发五个相关帖子。”
The Galaxy S 4 has several notable features. One, Dual Camera, allows the user to take a photograph with the front and rear-facing cameras simultaneously. At a basketball game, for example, a user can shoot a photograph of the game with the rear camera and the user’s reaction to it with the front camera; the two shots appear in one photograph.
Galaxy S 4拥有数项值得关注的功能。其中之一是双镜头(Dual Camera)，它允许用户同时使用前后摄像头拍照。比方说，观看篮球比赛的时候，用户可以用后摄像头拍比赛画面，同时用前摄像头拍用户自己的反应，两张图会出现在一张照片中。
Samsung also added Group Play, which will allow multiple Galaxy phones to link together to play a game together.
三星还加入了群体游戏(Group Play)功能，允许多部Galaxy手机串联起来玩游戏。