Samsung Electronics on Monday introduced a mobile device in the United States with a 6.3-inch screen — large enough to blur the lines between a tablet and smartphone. It’s another example of how the South Korean manufacturer is willing to make just about anything in any size to see what sticks with consumers.
周一，三星电子(Samsung Electronics)在美国推出了一款带有6.3英寸屏幕的移动设备，其尺寸之大足以模糊平板电脑和智能手机之间的界线。这再次证明，为了找出贴近消费者需求的产品，这家韩国制造商甘愿制造尺寸不一的各种设备。
The company said the device, called the Galaxy Mega, was meant for people who want the features of a smartphone but the “immersive experience” of a tablet. It supports the ability to run several apps and show them on the screen at the same time, similar to how windows are used on desktop computers.
三星电子说，这款设备的名字是Galaxy Mega，它针对的是那些既追求智能手机功能，但又追求平板电脑的“沉浸式体验”的用户群。这款设备具有在屏幕上同时显现和运行几款应用的能力，其方式和在台式电脑上运行windows操作系统类似。
It is unclear how big a market Samsung is trying to draw with the Mega. It already has a popular smartphone that is big enough to be considered a tablet: the Galaxy Note II, which has a 5.5-inch screen and stylus. It also has several sizes of tablets. Then again, Samsung surpassed Nokia to become the biggest phone maker in the world by making many different models of mobile devices that catered to different markets.
目前还不清楚，三星试图用Mega抢占多大的市场。三星已经有一款尺寸大得足以被看成是平板电脑的智能手机Galaxy Note II，该款手机拥有5.5英寸的屏幕和触摸笔。三星还有几个不同尺寸的平板电脑。不过，三星正是通过制造许多不同型号的移动设备，以迎合不同的市场，从而超越诺基亚(Nokia)，成为全球最大的手机制造商。
Samsung has been particularly forthcoming with its strategy since it lost an important patent battle with Apple last year in California, in which Apple cast Samsung as a blatant copycat. Samsung is clearly trying to dispel that image by rapidly introducing new products. Now, if Apple releases a larger iPhone, for example, Samsung may argue: “Who’s the copycat now?”
去年，三星在加利福尼亚州的一场重要的专利权之战中输给了苹果(Apple)，在这场战斗中，苹果把三星描绘成一个肆无忌惮的山寨生产商。自此之后，三星一直在非常积极地推进自己的战略。三星显然在设法摆脱山寨生产商的形象，为此它迅速推出了新产品。比如说，如果苹果此时发布一款尺寸更大的iPhone，三星可能会问：“现在，谁才是山寨生产商？”
Samsung also has plans to sell a smart watch, while Apple is said to be working on a watch of its own. Samsung is expected to introduce its watch, called Galaxy Gear, in September.
三星还计划销售一款智能手表，而据说此刻苹果也正在研发自己的智能手表。预计三星将在今年9月推出它自己的智能手表，名为Galaxy Gear。