SEOUL, South Korea — The man being groomed to run Samsung Group, the largest of South Korea’s family-controlled conglomerates, apologized Tuesday for a Samsung hospital’s failures in dealing with the country’s outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome.
韩国首尔——本周二，韩国最大的家族企业三星集团(Samsung Group)未来的掌门人为旗下一家医院在韩国中东呼吸综合征爆发中应对不进行了道歉。
The hospital, Samsung Medical Center, has been at the heart of the outbreak, which has killed 27 South Koreans. Of the country’s 175 confirmed cases of the virus, known as MERS, 85 were found to have been infected at the hospital, which before the outbreak was widely considered the country’s best.
这家医院名为三星医疗中心(Samsung Medical Center)，是中东呼吸综合征(MERS)爆发的中心。该疾病在韩国已经造成27人死亡。在全国175例确诊病例中，有85例是在该医院感染的。MERS爆发之前，人们普遍认为三星医疗中心是全国最好的医院。
“Our Samsung Medical Center has caused too big a pain and worry for the people by failing to prevent the infection and spread of MERS,” the Samsung executive, Lee Jae-yong, said Tuesday in a nationally televised speech before bowing deeply. “I bow my head in apology,” he said.
“三星医疗中心未能阻止MERS的感染和扩散，给大家造成了太大的痛苦和担忧，，”三星高管李在镕(Lee Jae-yong)本周二在发表全国电视讲话时深深鞠躬。“我低头道歉，”他说。
Mr. Lee, 47, whose father, Lee Kun-hee, is Samsung Group’s chairman, has been a subject of close scrutiny here as he prepares to assume control over the sprawling conglomerate, a crucial engine of South Korea’s export-driven economy. His father, who is 73, has been hospitalized at Samsung Medical Center since suffering a heart attack more than a year ago, a fact that the younger Mr. Lee mentioned in his speech, saying that he could understand the anxiety and pain of MERS patients and their relatives.
李在镕现年47岁，是三星集团会长李健熙(Lee Kun-hee)的儿子。该集团是韩国的出口导向型经济的重要引擎，李在镕在为继承这个庞大的企业集团做准备期间，韩国人一直在仔细注视他的一举一动。他的父亲已经73岁，自从一年多前心肌梗死以来一直在三星医疗中心住院。李在镕在讲话中也提到这一点，说自己能理解MERS患者及其亲属的焦虑和痛苦。
Mr. Lee promised thorough reform at the hospital, including its emergency room, where overcrowded conditions were cited by experts as a central factor in the disease’s quick spread. A patient who was treated in the emergency room in late May was later identified as a so-called superspreader of MERS, infecting dozens of patients, visitors and medical staff members there. The hospital has apologized for the loopholes in its infection control.
李在镕承诺对该医院进行彻底改革，那里的急诊室人满为患，被专家认为是MERS迅速传播的核心因素。5月下旬，一名后来被称为MERS“超级传播者”的患者前往急诊室治疗，结果在那里感染了数十名病人、探访者和医务人员。该医院已经为自身在传染病控制上的疏漏道歉。
The younger Mr. Lee, who is also known as Jay Y. Lee, replaced his father in May as chairman of Samsung Life Public Welfare Foundation, which runs the hospital. That move, along with his ascension to the chairmanship of a Samsung cultural foundation, was seen as part of a succession plan. The two foundations hold stakes in Samsung Life Insurance, an important piece in the complex web of Samsung subsidiaries through which the Lee family controls the group. Mr. Lee is also vice chairman of Samsung’s flagship company, Samsung Electronics.
李在镕又名Jay Y. Lee，今年5月他接替父亲成为经营这所医院的三星生命公益基金会(Samsung Life Public Welfare Foundation)的会长，这与他升任三星一个文化基金会会长一起，被视为继承计划的一部分。这两个基金会持有三星生命保险(Samsung Life Insurance)的股份。李氏家族通过控制三星众多子公司组成的复杂网络，实现对三星集团的控制，而三星生命保险就是这个网络中的重要一环。李在镕还是三星旗舰公司三星电子(Samsung Electronics)的副会长。