TOKYO — Secrecy has served Samsung Electronics well. Keeping its rivals guessing has helped Samsung, the South Korean technology giant, build a formidable lead in the smartphone industry, where it now sells more than one in three handsets worldwide.
东京——三星电子(Samsung Electronics)的保密能力令其受益匪浅。这家韩国科技巨头一直让竞争对手捉摸不定，这让它在智能手机行业获得了难以逾越的领先优势。目前，三星占据着全球智能手机市场超过三分一的份额。
This summer, however, Samsung suffered from an unusual loss of confidence among investors — caused partly by uncertainty over its strategy. Investors question what it intends to do with the $50 billion it has built up by selling all of those Galaxy S4’s and Note 3’s, and the chips in them. From early June through mid-July, Samsung’s stock lost about one-fifth of its value.
不过，投资者对三星的信心今年夏天出现了罕见的下滑——这在某种程度上是因为该公司战略的不确定性。通过销售Galaxy S4、Note 3等手机以及手机内存芯片，三星总共集聚了500亿美元（约合3000亿人民币），但投资者却搞不清它打算把这笔钱用在何处。从6月初到7月中旬，三星的股价下跌了约五分之一。
Foremost in many investors’ minds is the future of the smartphone business, which provides about two-thirds of Samsung’s earnings.
许多投资者心中的头等大事，是智能手机行业的未来。三星约三分之二的收入都源于它。
The summer sell-off was also caused by concerns that smartphones were about to become commoditized, widely available and interchangeable. As differences in design and technology become less pronounced, companies like Samsung and its archrival, Apple, might lose their ability to charge a premium for high-end models, which now provide most of the profit in the industry.
三星股票之所以今年夏天出现抛售，也是因为投资者担心智能手机即将变得日用品化、随处可见，且可以相互替代。随着设计和技术方面的差异变得不那么明显，像三星及其主要竞争对手苹果(Apple)这样的公司，可能会丧失为其高端机型制定高价的能力，而智能手机行业的大部分利润都来自高端机型。
Though the share price has recovered, Samsung is trying to address lingering doubts. It has invited 350 analysts and institutional investors to a Seoul hotel on Wednesday for a rare gathering with the company’s top management. While other big technology companies routinely hold such analyst days, it is Samsung’s first since 2005, and only the second in its history.
虽然股价已经回升，但投资者仍然顾虑重重，而三星正设法解决这一问题。它已经邀请了350名分析师和机构投资者，在周三前往首尔的一家酒店，参加一场难得一见的与公司高层的聚会。其他大型科技公司常常会召开这类分析师会议，但对三星而言，这还是2005年以来的第一次，在该公司历史上也仅仅是第二次。
“In the past, they thought it was enough just to have rising earnings,” said Byun Han-joon, an analyst in Seoul for KB Investment and Securities. “Now they realize they need to be more investor-friendly.”
“他们过去认为，只要收入还在增长就足够了。”KB投资证券公司(KB Investment & Securities)驻首尔的分析师卞涵俊（Byun Han-joon，音译）说，“但现在他们已经意识到，需要对投资者更加友好。”
Company officials, including the chief executive, Kwon Oh-hyun, are scheduled to take to the stage in Dynasty Hall at the Shilla Seoul hotel — owned by another company in the Samsung industrial group — for a day of presentations of a variety of subjects, including Samsung’s financial situation and the outlook for mobile phones, memory chips, display screens and other products.
按照既定的安排，包括首席执行官权五铉(Kwon Oh-hyun)在内的公司管理者，会在新罗酒店(Shilla Seoul hotel)的王朝大厅(Dynasty Hall)现身——该酒店为三星工业集团的另一家公司所有——用一天的时间做各种主题的报告，包括三星的财务状况，以及手机、内存芯片、显示屏乃至其他产品的前景。
“It will be a great chance to give investors better understanding on Samsung and to discuss its latest strategy and vision for 2020,” the company said in a statement.
“籍此良机，可以让投资者更好地了解三星，也可以就公司的最新战略和对2020年的前瞻进行探讨。”三星在一份声明中表示。
After Samsung reassured shareholders with two strong quarterly financial reports, its stock price rebounded and is back near its highest levels. While smartphones remain highly profitable, the company also is benefiting from a recent surge in the price of memory chips.
三星用两份靓丽的季度财报令股东重拾信心，其股价随后出现反弹，接近历史最高点。该公司的智能手机业务依然保持着较高的利润率，此外，内存芯片近期的价格飙升也让它得益。
Samsung is the biggest maker of memory chips, accounting for about one-third of global output. It also makes display screens and other major components of smartphones. This separates it from Apple, which outsources the purchase of smartphone parts and their assembly, and other phone makers that have fallen on hard times, including BlackBerry, Nokia and HTC.
三星是最大的内存芯片制造商，其产量约占全球总量的三分之一。它还生产显示器以及智能手机的其他主要零部件。比起把智能手机的零部件采购和组装分包出去的苹果，以及陷入困境的黑莓(BlackBerry)、诺基亚(Nokia)、HTC等其他手机制造商，这让它显得与众不同。
“There is still a perception gap around the Samsung model and how they can keep making money while all the others are crashing down,” said Sundeep Bajikar, an analyst at Jefferies, a brokerage firm, who is based in San Francisco.
“关于三星模式，关于他们如何能在其他公司处于低潮之际继续赚钱，人们在认知上存在巨大的差距。”经纪行杰富瑞(Jefferies)驻旧金山的分析师桑迪普·巴基卡(Sundeep Bajikar)说。
Many analysts say that, rather than crashing, Samsung will continue to make a lot of money, with semiconductors contributing a growing share of earnings. Now investors want to know what Samsung intends to do with all that cash.
许多分析师都表示，随着半导体业务在收入中的比重越来越大，三星不但不会走下坡路，还会继续大赚。现在，投资者们想弄清三星打算怎么使用这些钱。
Mark Newman, an analyst in Hong Kong for Sanford C. Bernstein, predicts that Samsung’s cash pile will soar to $77 billion next year and $160 billion in 2017. Apple, by comparison, has $147 billion in cash.
据桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)驻香港的分析师马克·纽曼(Mark Newman)预计，三星持有的现金明年将猛增至770亿美元，2017年将达到1600亿美元。相比之下，苹果目前持有现金1470亿美元。
Yet Samsung investors have seen little of it. The percentage of net income the company has paid out in dividends or stock buybacks fell to 5 percent last year from 50 percent in 2004, Mr. Newman wrote in a note to investors.
但三星的投资者从中所得甚少。纽曼在写给投资者的一份报告中表示，该公司用以支付股息或者进行股票回购的资金占净利的比例，已经从2004年的50%下滑到了去年的5%。
He said that is one reason the company’s stock price has lagged. Despite the recent rebound, Samsung trades at a significant discount to Apple, in price-to-earnings ratios. It has less than half the market value of Apple, despite higher revenue.
他说，这是该公司股价较低的原因之一。虽然三星的股价近期有所反弹，但从市盈率来看，其股票仍然比苹果低得多。三星的市值尚不及苹果的一半，尽管其收入要高于后者。
“The company needs to either return cash or convince investors of the next profit driver after memory — preferably both,” Mr. Newman said.
“该公司需要向投资者返现，或者让投资者确信，在内存业务之后还有下一个盈利利器——最好是两件事一起做。”纽曼说。
Others say it would be smarter for Samsung to invest its money in semiconductors, a highly capital-intensive business, and in other potential growth areas.
其他一些分析师则表示，三星较为明智的选择是把钱投进资本高度密集的半导体行业，以及其他具有增长潜力的领域。
“I think their dollars or won are best invested in disrupting their competition,” Mr. Bajikar said.
“我认为他们最好把手中的美元或者韩元用于干扰他们的竞争者。”巴基卡说。
“Samsung will continue to look for ways to be more open to shareholders,” the company said in its statement about analyst day.
“三星将继续寻求各种方法，以更开放的态度面对股东。”该公司在有关分析师会议的声明中表示。