Samsung Electronics said on Monday that it had temporarily suspended business with a factory in southern China after allegations last week that it had illegally hired under-age workers to produce cellphone components.
三星电子(Samsung Electronics)本周一表示，它暂停了和中国南方一家工厂的业务关系；上周，这家工厂被指非法雇佣童工生产手机组件。
The South Korean electronics giant said its preliminary investigation found “evidence of suspected child labor” at the factory, Dongguan Shinyang Electronics, which is owned and managed by a company in South Korea, and in the city of Dongguan, one of the biggest manufacturing centers in China.
韩国电子巨头三星表示，经过初步调查，他们发现了东莞新洋电子“涉嫌使用童工的证据”。该工厂的所有者和管理方都是一家韩国公司。新洋电子所在的东莞市，则是中国最大的制造业中心之一。
In a news release, Samsung said that the authorities in China were investigating the case, and that if the under-age workers had been hired illegally, the factory could be permanently barred from working with Samsung.
三星在新闻发布会上表示，中国当局正在调查此案，如果该工厂真的非法雇用了童工，三星可能永远不会再与其合作。
“It is unfortunate that the allegation surfaced despite Samsung’s efforts to prevent child labor at its suppliers,” Samsung said in its statement.
三星在一份声明表示：“尽管三星努力防止供应商雇佣童工，但很不幸，还是出了这样的事。”
The move came just days after a labor rights group released a report saying it had found at least three under-age girls working an 8:30 p.m. to 8:30 a.m. shift producing plastic components for Samsung at the Shinyang facility. The New York-based group, China Labor Watch, also said there were other violations in overtime pay and at least two other assembly line workers younger than 16, the legal working age in China.
就在几天前，总部设在纽约的劳工维权组织“中国劳工观察“(China Labor Watch)发布了一份报告，称发现至少三名未成年少女在新洋电子的厂房里为三星生产塑料组件，她们的轮班时间是上午8:30到晚上8:30。该组织还表示，新洋电子在加班工资方面还有其他一些违规行为，而且其流水线工人中至少还有另外两名不到16岁的未成年人。16岁是中国规定的合法工作年龄。
The allegations were embarrassing because on June 30, Samsung released its annual global sustainability report, which noted for the second year in a row that its audits had not turned up any under-age workers in more than 130 supplier factories audited in China. The company also said that it had strict compliance procedures in place, including facial recognition software at its facilities and instructions that Samsung suppliers refrain from hiring workers younger than 18.
这些说法令人尴尬，因为就在6月30日，三星发布了其年度全球可持续发展报告，表示它稽查了130多处中国供应商工厂，连续第二年没有发现任何童工。该公司还表示它有严格的合规程序，比如在一些设施中使用了面部识别软件，并且要求三星的供应商不得雇佣18岁以下的工人。
Since 2012, Samsung has stepped up its auditing program to combat issues like labor abuse and the use of so-called conflict minerals, or natural resources sold to finance armies or rebel groups, notably in places like the Democratic Republic of Congo. On Monday, Samsung pledged to strengthen its hiring process to prevent child labor or other abuses.
自2012年以来，三星加大了稽查力度，以打击用工违规行为和冲突矿石(Conflict minerals)的使用。冲突矿石是指雇佣军或叛军出售的自然资源，特别是在像刚果民主共和国这样的地方，用以筹措资金。本周一，三星承诺严控招聘过程，防止雇佣童工或其他违规行为的发生。
Samsung said it had audited the Shinyang factory on three occasions since 2013, including on June 25. Last week, a reporter from The New York Times met three girls working in the Dongguan factory. Their government-issued identification cards indicated that they were 14 and 15 years old. They also acknowledged that they had been hired on June 30, after the Samsung audit, and were working at the facility illegally, under false names. They had been hired as temporary workers for the summer, they said, by an employment agency.
三星表示，它自2013年以来，已经对新洋电子进行了三次稽查，其中一次是在今年6月25日。上周，《纽约时报》的记者采访了三个在其东莞工厂工作的女孩。从政府配发的身份证来看，她们的年龄从14岁到15岁。三个女孩也承认，她们是在三星稽查结束后的6月30日获得雇佣，用假名非法进厂工作的。三人说自己通过一家就业机构，被该厂雇为夏季临时工。