DONGGUAN, China — After work, the three young women giggle and pull at one another’s hair. But when questioned, they admit their common secret: They use false papers to work illegally here at the factory that makes mobile phone components for one of the world’s biggest brands, Samsung.
中国东莞——工作结束后，三个女孩咯咯地笑着，互相扯着头发玩。但遇到提问时，她们承认了一个共同的秘密：使用假证件非法打工。她们所在的工厂为世界知名品牌三星(Samsung)制造手机组件。
They are 14 and 15 years old, below the legal working age in China. A few weeks ago, they were living at home with their parents in a small village a six-hour drive from here, finishing middle school.
她们只有十四五岁，还不到中国的法定工作年龄。几周之前，她们与父母生活在一个距离东莞六小时车程的小村庄，读着中学。
“We also worked at a factory last summer,” said one of the young girls, who all spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of getting fired. “But it was much worse. We were making Christmas ornaments, and some workers got huge blisters on their hands.”
“我们去年夏天也出来打工了，”其中一个女孩说，“但那个工作差多了。我们做圣诞饰品，一些工人手上起了很大的水泡。”由于担心被开除，三名女孩要求不具名。
The presence of at least three child workers at the factory in southern China casts a cloud over the labor practices of Samsung and its suppliers.
这家位于中国南部的工厂至少有三名童工，从而让三星及其供应商的用工行为遭到质疑。
A little more than a week ago, Samsung, the South Korean electronics giant, said in an annual review of conditions at its manufacturing centers that it had found no evidence of underage workers or child laborers in its global supply chain. In recent years, Samsung has promoted its efforts to monitor and evaluate suppliers and manufacturing operations around the world, noting that the policies were aimed at protecting workers and preventing minors from being hired.
一周多以前，韩国电子巨头三星在有关厂家工作环境的年度审查报告中表示，公司没有发现证据表明其全球供应链中存在雇佣未成年人或童工的现象。最近几年，三星公司努力加强对全球各地的供应商及生产活动的监督和评估，并强调这些政策旨在保护工人，防止雇佣未成年人。
For instance, even though the legal working age in China is 16, Samsung considers that too young, and so its suppliers are instructed not to hire workers under 18. To ensure they don’t cheat, Samsung says, it has forced all of them to install a sophisticated facial recognition system on factory sites.
例如，尽管中国的法定工作年龄为16岁，但三星公司认为这个年龄太小，要求其供应商不得雇佣不满18岁的工人。三星表示，为了确保不存在欺骗行为，公司强制要求所有供应商在工厂设置先进的面部识别系统。
But on Tuesday morning, the three young girls met with a reporter from The New York Times after they were initially identified by the labor rights group China Labor Watch. Near their factory here in Dongguan, they explained how easy it was to work for a company that supplies Samsung.
最初发现这三名女孩的是劳工维权组织中国劳工观察(China Labor Watch)。周二上午，《纽约时报》的记者见到了她们。她们在东莞的工厂附近向记者说明，很容易就来到了为三星供应组件的这家公司工作。
According to the girls, they were part of a “labor dispatch system” that often funnels child laborers to factories during the summer to help meet a surge in orders that comes just ahead of the fall and winter shopping seasons in the United States and Europe. They were hired as temporary workers, they said, and paid through an agency that has recruitment channels in poor regions.
这些女孩透露，她们走的是“劳务派遣制”。该制度经常在夏季向工厂输送童工，以便帮助工它们在欧美秋冬购物季到来之前完成激增的订单。她们表示，自己是临时工，通过在贫困地区有招募渠道的一家中介获得报酬。
After they told their story, the three girls locked arms and walked past the security guards and into the Shinyang Electronics factory, which employs more than 600 workers in Dongguan, one of China’s biggest manufacturing centers.
讲完自己的故事后，这三名女孩挽着手经过保安，走进了东莞新洋电子有限公司的工厂。该厂位于中国最大的制造中心之一东莞，雇佣了600多名工人。
“As part of our pledge against child labor, Samsung routinely conducts inspections to monitor our suppliers to ensure they follow our commitment,” Samsung said in a statement. “We are urgently looking into the latest allegations and will take appropriate measures in accordance with our policies to prevent any cases of child labor in our suppliers.”
“作为我们反童工承诺的一部分，三星定期进行检查，监督我们的供应商，以确保他们遵守我们的承诺，”三星公司发表声明称，“我们正在对这一最新指控开展紧急调查，并将根据公司政策采取适当措施来阻止供应商雇佣童工的任何行为。”
The situation at the factory in Dongguan underscores some of the challenges multinational corporations face in sourcing goods from here. Wages and working conditions in China have steadily improved over the last decade. But ensuring that supplier factories comply with guidelines set by global brands, as well as China’s labor laws, is difficult, even though larger factories are regularly audited by outside inspectors.
东莞工厂的情况突显了跨国公司向中国外包业务时面临的挑战。在过去十年间，中国的薪资水平及工作环境不断获得改善。然而，尽管外部监督人员定期对大型工厂进行检查，但仍旧很难确保供应方工厂遵守国际品牌设立的准则，以及中国的劳动法。
Many global brands have struggled with labor problems in their Chinese operations. In the last few years, Apple has come under scrutiny in China over labor and safety problems, notably a spate of worker suicides and unrest at facilities run by its biggest contract manufacturer, the Taiwanese company Foxconn.
很多国际品牌都在应对中国工厂的劳工问题上遭遇困难。过去几年中，苹果(Apple)因为劳工及安全问题受到密切关注，尤其是该公司最大的外包生产商——台湾富士康——的工厂发生了一连串自杀事件及骚乱。
Apple declined to comment for this article, but the company has said it has taken steps to address labor issues in its supply chain, including deeper audits on its partners and a program that punishes suppliers that hire underage workers.
苹果拒绝就本文置评，但公司曾表示，已经采取举措来应对供应链中的劳工问题，比如对合作伙伴进行更深层次的审查，以及制定计划来惩罚雇佣未成年工人的供应商。
Now, Samsung — whose smartphones are popular worldwide — is also the target of labor rights activists. In a report released on Thursday, China Labor Watch, which is based in New York, accused Samsung of allowing a supplier in Dongguan to hire underage workers, cheating those workers on pay, denying them overtime wages and failing to give them government-mandated labor contracts.
三星的智能手机风靡全球。如今，三星也成了劳工维权人士的监督目标。在周四公布的一份报告中，总部位于纽约的中国劳工观察组织指责三星允许东莞的一家供应商雇佣未成年工人、不如实支付薪酬、不给加班费，以及不遵照政府的强制要求签订劳动合同。
“After allegedly inspecting hundreds of Chinese suppliers, Samsung did not find one child worker,” China Labor Watch said in a statement released on Thursday. “Yet in just one Samsung supplier factory, C.L.W. has uncovered several children employed without labor contracts, working 11 hours per day and only being paid for 10 of those hours.”
“三星声称，自己检查了中国数百家供应商，但没有发现一名童工，”中国劳工观察在周二发表的声明中说，“可是，仅在三星的一家供应商的工厂里，中国劳工观察就发现了好几名没签劳动合同的童工。他们每天工作11个小时，却只拿到10小时的工资。”
For the last decade, labor rights groups have tried to draw attention to labor abuse and health and safety violations in some of China’s biggest factories. They often send young activists to work undercover in the workshops, document conditions, secretly interview workers and examine their pay stubs and employment contracts.
过去十年里，劳工维权组织试图吸引众人关注规模最大的一些中国工厂里发生的虐待工人、侵犯人身安全和健康的情况。他们常常把年轻的维权人士派到车间里当卧底，记录那里的工作条件、秘密采访工人，并且查看他们的工资单和劳务合同。
In the Samsung case, a young activist at China Labor Watch was hired by the Dongguan factory and began collecting evidence and making friends with workers suspected of being underage. According to the account by the labor rights group, the activist ate with the three young girls, and also with two young boys who were believed to be underage, and secretly recorded their conversations.
在三星事件中，东莞的一家工厂雇佣了中国劳工观察派出的一名年轻的维权人士。此人随后开始搜集证据，与疑似不够法定工作年龄的工人们交朋友。根据该组织的描述，这名维权人士与这三名女孩及拒信也未成年的两名男孩一起吃饭，并秘密录下了与他们之间的谈话。
The activist also took photographs of conditions inside the Shinyang facility, which is owned and managed by a company in South Korea. The Dongguan factory now works exclusively for Samsung to produce plastic components for mobile phones.
这名维权人士还对新洋电子的工作环境拍照取证。这家工厂的所有方和经营方是一家韩国公司。工厂位于东莞，现在专为三星生产手机塑料元件。
A Shinyang spokeswoman, who gave her name as Ms. Fang, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday that Samsung audited the company on June 25 and that the auditors found no evidence of workers below age 18, let alone 16.
周三，新洋电子的女发言人在电话采访中表示，三星在6月25日抽查了这家公司，监察员没有找到证据表明该厂雇佣了不满18岁的工人，更别提不满16岁的童工了。这名女发言人只说自己姓方（音译）。
Samsung says in its own exhaustive audits of hundreds of factories in China during the last two years that third-party auditors found not a single underage worker. But a Samsung spokeswoman says the company is now conducting its own investigation into the Shinyang facility.
三星表示，过去两年里，公司对数百家中国工厂进行了全面彻底的检查，但第三方监察员连一名未成年工人都没找到。不过，三星的一名女发言人表示，公司现正对新洋电子的工厂展开内部调查。
According to its annual sustainability report, which includes a review of human rights and labor conditions at its global centers, Samsung says it has “zero tolerance” for child labor and could “suspend transactions” with suppliers that do not comply with its rules.
三星在其年度可持续发展报告中表示，公司对童工持“零容忍”态度，会“暂停”与违规供应商之间的“交易”。在报告里，三星对其在全球生产中心的人权和劳动环境做出了评估。
In its 2014 report, released on June 30, Samsung acknowledged weaknesses in its supply chain. For instance, the report said that a majority of the facilities Samsung had audited in China failed to comply with the country’s law on the maximum hours of overtime workers are permitted, which is 36 hours a month. The company said it was trying to rectify the situation.
在6月30日公布的2014年度报告中，三星承认其供应链存在缺陷。例如，报告称，三星检查的大多数中国厂家没有遵守中国法律中关于每月加班时长不得超过36小时的规定。三星表示，公司正在对这种情况进行整顿。
If Samsung verifies that at least three young girls were working at its supplier factory, experts say that would cast some doubts on what the company considers stringent audits, including the use of facial recognition software to determine whether the faces of workers matched their government-issued identity cards.
专家表示，如果三星证实，至少有三名不满法定工作年龄的女孩在它的供应商工厂劳动，那么该公司自认严苛的检查会引发外界的一些疑问，包括质疑它用面部识别软件来判断工人的面容是否与政府颁发的身份证相符的做法。