Samsung may have lost the most recent round in the United States in its legal fight with Apple over cellphone technology, but that hasn’t stopped it from mounting a new assault against Apple that relies on a more public tactic — full-page ads.
最近在美国进行的一轮与苹果公司(Apple)的手机技术法律战中，三星公司(Samsung)可能是输了，但这没能阻止它对苹果展开新一轮的进攻，这次倚仗的是更公开的一种战术：整版大广告。
In a round of ads that began this week, Samsung takes direct aim at Apple, claiming its Galaxy phone is a better choice than the new iPhone 5.
本周开始的这轮广告中，三星直指苹果，称自己的Galaxy手机是比新的iPhone 5更好的选择。
While going after a competitor in an ad is not a new technique, the tone of the Samsung ads is decidedly sarcastic for a technology company emerging from a $1 billion defeat in the latest patent battle between the two companies.
尽管在广告中打击竞争者并不鲜见，但对一家刚刚输掉双方之间的法律纠纷并被判罚10亿美元的公司而言，三星广告中的语气却充满嘲讽。
One of the ads features the company’s new Galaxy S III alongside the iPhone 5. The ad, which began appearing in print publications over the weekend, features an image of an iPhone tilted to the right and a white Galaxy phone tilted to the left under the headline, “It doesn’t take a genius.” Below each phone is a list of its features.
一则广告将三星的新手机Galaxy S III与并列的iPhone 5作为主角。这则广告周末开始在纸媒出现，iPhone的图片放在右边，白色Galaxy手机放在左边，上面的大标题是“无需天才”。两部手机的下面均列出了性能列表。
“This is a marketing campaign; it’s not a legal campaign,” said Teri Daley, a Samsung representative. “As marketers we’re focused on educating consumers. We feel like they’ve somewhat been led down a blind path when truly that innovation has stopped a long time ago.”
三星的代表特丽·戴利(Teri Daley)称，“这是营销攻势，不是法律战。作为营销人员，我们关注的是教育消费者。我们感觉，在某种程度上他们被带进了死胡同，在那里创新其实早已停滞。”
The genius reference could be interpreted as a swipe at the Apple customer support employees, who work at the company’s “Genius Bars.” This summer, Apple started a television ad campaign featuring a Genius Bar employee. The campaign was short-lived.
广告中提到的“天才”可以理解成对苹果客户技术支持员工的嘲讽，因为他们工作的地方被称为“天才吧”(Genius Bars)。今年夏天，苹果曾展开了一轮以一名天才吧员工为主角的电视广告攻势。不过，这轮广告比较短命。
Todd Pendleton, Samsung’s chief marketing officer, said the “It doesn’t take a genius” ad was not meant to insult iPhone owners. “Apple users or fanboys, or whatever you call them, they’re not the target of this work at all,” he said. “If you look at the core essence of the work, it really is showing an innovation story. A more innovative product in this case is the GS III.”
三星首席营销官托德·彭德尔顿(Todd Pendleton)称，这个“无需天才”的广告无意冒犯iPhone用户。他说，“苹果用户或是果粉，无论你们怎么称呼这些人，他们完全不是这则广告的靶子。如果你们看看广告的核心，它其实在展示一则创新故事。故事里更具创新性的产品是GS III。”
Innovation has been at the heart of the dispute between the companies. In August, a California jury ruled that Samsung had infringed upon a series of mobile technology patents and awarded Apple $1 billion in damages.
创新一直是两家公司纠纷的核心。8月份，加利福尼亚州的一个陪审团判决三星侵犯了苹果的一系列移动技术专利，并要求其向苹果支付10亿美元赔偿金。
In a statement after the verdict, Samsung showed it was still in fighting spirit. “It is unfortunate that patent law can be manipulated to give one company a monopoly over rectangles with rounded corners, or technology that is being improved every day by Samsung and other companies,” the company said. It vowed that the defeat was “not the final word in this case or in battles being waged in courts and tribunals around the world, some of which have already rejected many of Apple’s claims.”
在判决之后发表的声明中，三星显示，该公司仍然斗志昂扬。“很不幸，专利法不仅可以被曲解成授予一家公司垄断方形圆角外形的权利，还可以让它垄断三星等公司每天都在改进技术的权利，”三星称。该公司誓言称，败诉“既不是这宗案子的终结，也不是世界各地法院及仲裁机构中战斗的终结。一些法庭已经驳回了苹果的许多要求。”
In an interview, Mr. Pendleton said Samsung’s new ads were part of a larger campaign for the Galaxy S III that began in June and included ads on television, online, in print and in outdoor areas, like posters at bus stations. Major markets for the company include Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York, he said.
彭德尔顿曾在一个访问中称，三星的这些新广告是始于6月的Galaxy S III广告攻势中的一部分。广告形式包括了电视、网络、纸媒和巴士站海报等户外广告。他还说，三星的主要市场是在芝加哥、达拉斯、洛杉矶、旧金山和纽约。
A headline on a Samsung ad that ran in newspapers on Sept. 9, days before Apple introduced its iPhone, says, “The Next Big Thing Is Already Here.” Samsung used a similar tag line in 2011, “The Next Big Thing Is Here,” to promote its 4G service and the Galaxy S II. Television ads for that campaign showed people waiting in line for the latest Apple device while Samsung owners showed off the features of phones they already had.
9月9日，即苹果发布新iPhone的几天之前，三星在报纸上刊登的广告标题叫做“下一个大产品已经问世”(The Next Big Thing Is Already Here)。三星曾在2011年使用了类似的标语“下一个大产品问世了”(The Next Big Thing Is Here)来宣传自家的4G设备和Galaxy S II。当时的电视广告展示了等候苹果最新设备的排队人群，而三星用户则在炫耀自己手中手机的功能。
Adding the word “already” to this latest iteration of the campaign signaled the brand’s focus on the iPhone 5 coming to market. The technology blog Gizmodo published a collection of homemade ads that Apple fans created in response to the latest Samsung ads. Headlines included “Don’t settle for cheap plastic” and “In high school, it doesn’t take a genius to understand who is just a bully.”
在最近的广告文案中加入“已经”标志着三星品牌对iPhone 5上市的重视。科技博客Gizmodo发表了苹果爱好者回应三星最新广告的自制广告集锦。标题包括“别满足于廉价塑料”和“在中学里，无需天才就能明白谁就是在欺负人。”
Apple, which declined to comment about the Samsung campaign, has undertaken its share of ad campaigns mocking the competition.
苹果拒绝评论三星的广告，但过去也曾制作嘲笑竞争敌手的广告。
Ken Segall, the ad guru who worked on Apple’s “Think Different” marketing campaign and the author of “Insanely Simple,” a book about Apple, said that over the years, Apple learned to apply a light touch of humor when it mocked competitors in ads. For example, in its previous “Get a Mac” TV commercials, a PC, personified by a pudgy John Hodgman, exchanged comedic jabs with a Mac, played by a handsome Justin Long.
肯·西格尔(KenSegall)是苹果的“另辟蹊径”营销活动背后的广告大师，并撰写了以苹果为主题的书籍《狂简单》(InsanelySimple)。他表示，随着时间的推移，苹果学会了在嘲笑竞争对手的广告中加入一丝幽默元素。比如在以前的“弄台Mac”电视广告中，胖乎乎的约翰·霍奇曼(John Hodgman)扮演的PC与英俊的贾斯汀·朗(Justin Long)扮演的Mac进行了滑稽的互相攻击。
While Apple has outspent Samsung on advertising wireless devices, both companies have increased their ad spending in that category over the last year, according to data from Kantar Media, part of WPP. From January to June, Apple spent $193.1 million on advertising mobile products, while Samsung spent $99.9 million. In 2011, Apple spent $104.1 million during the same period, while Samsung spent $6.95 million.
虽然在给无线设备打广告上苹果比三星花费更多，但根据WPP分支机构Kantar Media的说法，两家公司去年都在这方面增加了广告开支。今年1月到6月，在移动产品广告上，苹果花费了1.931亿美元，而三星则花费了9990万美元。2011年同期，苹果花费了1.041亿美元，而三星花费了695万美元。
Tom Denari, the president and a principal at the advertising agency Young & Laramore, said the Samsung campaign was reminiscent of the Pepsi and Coke wars of the 1970s and ’80s.
广告机构Young & Laramore的总裁汤姆·德纳里(Tom Denari)称，三星的广告使人想起百事(Pepsi)与可口可乐(Coke)在20世纪70和80年代进行的广告战。