The head of the CJ Group, a large conglomerate in South Korea, was arrested on charges of embezzlement and tax evasion as the country’s Parliament on Tuesday enacted a series of laws aimed at protecting smaller businesses from the corporations that have dominated the economy for decades.
韩国大型企业集团希杰集团(CJ Group)总裁因涉嫌贪污、逃税而被逮捕。韩国国会于周二颁布了一系列法律，以保护规模较小的企业免受主导韩国经济数十年的大公司的挤压。
Lee Jay-hyun, the CJ Group chairman, was locked up shortly before midnight Monday, accused of stashing hundreds of millions of dollars under other people’s names, dodging 70 billion won ($61 million) in taxes and misappropriating 100 billion won in company money.
CJ总裁李在贤(Lee Jay-hyun)于周一午夜之前被关押，他被控以他人名义藏匿数亿美元资金，逃税700亿韩元（约合3.76亿元人民币），挪用公司资金1000亿韩元。
Mr. Lee, 53, a grandson of Lee Byung-chull, the founder of the Samsung empire, was the first tycoon to be arrested on corruption charges since President Park Geun-hye took office in February amid mounting public calls for “economic democratization.” In her inaugural speech, Ms. Park took note of public sentiment, vowing to deal sternly with tycoons involved in white-collar crimes and the conglomerates’ expansion at the cost of smaller businesses.
现年53岁的李在贤是三星(Samsung)帝国创始人李秉哲(Lee Byung-chull)的孙子，他是自朴槿惠总统(Park Geun-hye)今年2月就任以来，第一名因为腐败指控而遭拘捕的企业巨头。朴槿惠上台时，民众呼吁“经济民主化”的声音越来越大，在就职演说中，朴槿惠也迎合了公众的情绪，宣称要严厉处置那些参与经济犯罪的巨头，以及企业集团不顾中小企业利益大肆扩张的行为。
Although all the rival parties agreed during the presidential campaign last December to enact several bills that would act as checks on the conglomerates’ power, the writing of the legislation has proved contentious.
尽管所有竞争的政党在去年12月的总统竞选期间，都认为要颁布几项旨在制约大型企业集团势力的法案，但法律的起草却引发了争议。
South Korea’s economic growth has depended heavily on exports and expansion led by a small group of family-owned conglomerates like CJ, Hyundai and Samsung. The conglomerates, known as chaebol, have vigorously lobbied the National Assembly in recent months, insisting that overly strict restrictions would hurt their competitiveness and profitability and damage the South Korean economy in general, an argument supported by many lawmakers affiliated with Ms. Park’s conservative governing party.
韩国的经济增长，主要依靠由少数几个家族拥有的企业集团引领的出口和扩张，如CJ、现代集团(Hyundai)和三星集团。这些也被称为“财阀”(chaebol)的企业集团，近几个月来大力游说国会(National Assembly)，声称过于严苛的限制会削弱他们的竞争力和赢利能力，并对韩国总体经济造成损害。朴槿惠领导的执政党立场保守，隶属该党的许多议员支持上述观点。
Ms. Park recently said that any reform bills should not hurt the chaebols’ potential for leading economic growth as the economy slowed, and the political opposition accused her of retreating from her campaign promises.
随着经济放缓，朴槿惠最近表示，任何改革法案都不应该损害财阀引领经济增长的潜力。反对党指责朴槿惠，在竞选时承诺的问题上退缩了。
After months of bickering, the competing parties agreed on several pieces of legislation Tuesday.
在经过几个月的争论后，相互冲突的政党于周二就几项立法达成一致。
Under one new law, subsidiaries of a chaebol partly owned by its chairman’s family would have a harder time monopolizing supply orders from the rest of the business empire. Amid widespread discontent over the widening gap between rich and poor, South Koreans have fumed at the way the tycoons helped their children inherit easy fortunes. Companies sold shares to the chairmen’s children at unrealistically low prices or showered lucrative business orders on affiliates owned by the chairmen or their families without conducting competitive bidding.
根据一项新法律，财阀下属的由总裁家族部分控制的子公司，将更难垄断同一集团中其他企业的供货订单。由于贫富差距的扩大引起了广泛不满，巨头们帮助其子女毫不费力地继承财富的方式让韩国人感到愤怒。公司将股份以极低的价格出售给总裁的子女，或者将大量利润丰厚的订单交给那些由总裁或其家族拥有的关联公司，而不进行竞争性招标。
But even before that bill was put to a vote, critics said political bargaining had turned it into a “paper tiger” with too many loopholes and exceptions. “This is cheating the people in the name of economic democratization,” Solidarity for Economic Reform, a civic watchdog on chaebol, said in a news release.
但在对该法案进行投票表决前，批评人士称政治交易已经使其变成了一只“纸老虎”，法案中留了太多漏洞和例外。监督财阀的公民组织“经济改革社”(Solidarity for Economic Reform)在一份新闻稿中表示，“这是以经济民主化的名义欺骗民众。”
Another law passed on Tuesday protects the rights of small-business owners who operate convenience stores under a franchise agreement with chaebols. A third law reduced the maximum percentage of a bank a chaebol is allowed to own to 4 percent, from 9 percent.
周二通过的另一项法律，目的是保护那些与财阀签订特许协议来经营便利店的小企业主的权利。第三项法律将财阀可在一家银行持有的股份上限从9%降低到了4%。
By trying to curb the power of chaebols, Ms. Park is struggling with her father’s legacy.
朴槿惠努力限制财阀势力时，其实也是在艰难地解决她的父亲遗留下来的问题。
Her father, Park Chung-hee, who ruled South Korea from 1961 to 1979 as it moved from a desperately poor country toward becoming an economic power, nurtured a handful of family controlled businesses with easy credit, subsidies, tax benefits and protection from foreign competitors. Those companies, including Samsung and Hyundai, have grown into globally recognized conglomerates that have been credited with leading South Korea’s economic growth, exporting goods as diverse as computer chips, cellphones, cars and ships.
他的父亲朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)在1961年至1979年期间担任韩国总统，在这一时期，韩国从一个极度贫困的国家变成了经济强国。通过宽松的信贷、补贴、税收优惠，以及针对外国竞争的保护措施，朴正熙扶持起了若干家由家族控制的企业。包括三星和现代在内的这些公司，已经发展成了全球知名的企业集团，它们被认为领导了韩国的经济增长，出口了包括计算机芯片、手机、汽车和轮船在内的各种产品。
But at home, the corporate empires are also seen as predators, as their dominance in increasingly diverse swaths of the economy has come at the expense of smaller businesses. For example, some run rapidly expanding nationwide chains of hypermarkets, supermarkets and 24-hour convenience stores that have squeezed out traditional markets and mom-and-pop stores.
但在国内，这些企业帝国同时也被视为掠夺者，因为在日益多样化的经济领域，它们的主导地位损害了中小企业的利益。比如，它们当中的一些企业经营着在全国范围内快速扩张的连锁大卖场、超市和24小时便利店，把传统的市场和家庭经营的杂货店排挤出局。
The corporate behemoths have also faced repeated accusations of bribery, poor corporate governance and shady business deals, often to help the families of their chairmen accumulate wealth. Many chaebol chairmen have been convicted of white-collar crimes, but few have spent more than a few months behind bars, as their sentences were quickly suspended by judges.
这些企业巨兽也不断因为贿赂、企业管理不善和不正当的交易行为而受到指控，舞弊行为的目的常常是帮助总裁的家人聚敛财富。许多财阀的负责人因经济犯罪而被判刑，但很少有人在监狱里待的时间超过几个月，因为法官很快会判他们缓刑。
Mr. Lee was the second major tycoon to be arrested since the election.
李在贤是大选以来被捕的第二位商业巨头。
In January, Chey Tae-won, the head of SK, one of the largest South Korean conglomerates and owner of the largest mobile carrier and the biggest oil refiner in the country, was arrested and sentenced to four years in prison for embezzlement.
1月，SK集团董事长崔泰源(Chey Tae-won)被捕，因挪用公款被判入狱4年。SK是韩国最大的企业集团之一，旗下有韩国最大的移动通信运营商和炼油厂。
Prosecutors said Mr. Lee was a case in point for chaebol excess.
检方称李在贤是财阀们放纵无度的一个典型例子。
On Tuesday, they summoned him from his cell for questioning. They were reportedly investigating the details of what they suspected was secret hoarding of funds and whether he used that money to manipulate stock prices of CJ subsidiaries.
周二，检察官把李在贤从监房里传唤出来问话。据报道，他们是在调查所怀疑的秘密敛财的细节，以及李在贤是否用那些钱操纵了CJ子公司的股价。
Prosecutors said they had found hundreds of millions of dollars Mr. Lee kept in bank accounts opened under the names of acquaintances and were investigating whether the money was cash he had inherited from his father and had hidden from the tax authorities or embezzled from his companies, the South Korean media reported, citing prosecution sources.
韩国媒体引用检方信源称，检方表示，他们已经发现了李在贤存在银行账户里的数亿美元，那些账户都是以他的熟人名义开设的，他们也正在调查，他是否从他父亲那里继承了这些现金，却瞒过了税务机关，还是他从自己公司挪用的资金。
“I am sorry for causing trouble for the people,” Mr. Lee said Monday night, shortly before he was taken to jail.
“很遗憾我给人们造成了困扰，”李在贤周一晚上被关进监狱前说。
His case also drew attention because of his family background. Although his father, Lee Maeng-hee, was the eldest son of the Samsung founder, he did not inherit control of the Samsung empire. The founder bequeathed instead it to his third son, Lee Kun-hee, the current chairman of Samsung, South Korea’s largest conglomerate.
他的案子之所以吸引了关注，也是因为他的家族。尽管他的父亲李孟熙(Lee Maeng-hee)是三星创始人的长子，但他并未继承对三星帝国的控制权。相反，三星创始人将其传给了自己的三儿子，即三星现任会长李健熙(Lee Kun-hee)。三星是韩国最大的企业集团。
Lee Maeng-hee is fighting a lawsuit against his brother, Lee Kun-hee, claiming that some of the wealth given to the Samsung chairman should belong to him and other siblings.
李孟熙正在起诉弟弟李健熙，称这位三星会长得到的部分财富应该属于他和其他兄弟姐妹。