TOKYO — Samsung Electronics plans to introduce a wristwatch in September that can make phone calls, play video games and send e-mails, potentially beating Apple to market with a piece of technology that moves mobile communications beyond the smartphone.
东京——三星电子(Samsung Electronics)计划于今年9月推出一款手表，这款手表能打电话，玩电子游戏，还能发送电子邮件，这使它有可能在智能手机以外的移动通讯技术领域，领先苹果(Apple)进入市场。
The watch, called Samsung Galaxy Gear, would be shown off “around the time” of an electronics industry trade fair in Berlin that begins Sept. 6, a person briefed on the matter said Saturday.
一名知情人士于上周六表示，这款手表的名字是三星Galaxy Gear，它会在今年9月6日开幕的柏林电子行业交易会“那段时间”上亮相。
Samsung has scheduled a media event for Sept. 4 at which it is also expected to introduce the Note III, a new version of its “phablet,” a cross between a phone and a tablet.
三星已经计划于9月4日举行媒体发布会，届时，三星有望发布新版本的“平板手机”Note III，这是一种混合了手机和平板电脑功能的电子设备。
“The commercial launch will definitely be this year,” said the person with knowledge of the unveiling, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to speak publicly about the company’s plans.
一名了解此次新品发布情况的人士说，“相关的商业发布肯定会在年内。”因为并未获准就公司计划公开发言，这名人士要求匿名。
The Galaxy Gear would not be the first watch phone on the market. Sony recently introduced a second-generation version of its smart watch, a gadget that works in conjunction with a smartphone in the user’s pocket. Other smart devices like the Pebble Watch and the I’m Watch have also been sold for some time. Apple is said to be working on its own wrist-worn device.
Galaxy Gear不是市场上的第一款手表手机。索尼(Sony)于近期推出了其第二代智能手表，它能配合用户口袋里的智能手机联动运转。包括Pebble Watch和I'am Watch在内的其他智能设备也都上市了一段时间。据说，苹果正在开发自己的腕表式设备。
For Samsung, the idea is also not entirely new. The company introduced its first watch phone in 1999. Still, the category of smart watches remains underdeveloped, as none of the existing devices have captured the imagination of consumers.
对三星来说，智能手表也不是一个全新的概念。该公司于1999年推出了旗下第一款手表手机。尽管如此，智能手表的开发依然滞后，在现有的智能手表中，没有一款能够满足消费者的想象力。
But analysts say that could change now that the two biggest smartphone makers, Samsung and Apple, are getting into the watch business.
不过，分析人士说，随着两大智能手机制造商三星和苹果进军智能手表领域，情况可能会有所改变。
Canalys, a research firm, predicts that sales of smart watches will rise to five million in 2014, a tenfold increase from this year.
据研究公司Canalys预测，智能手表的销售量将在2014年上升到500万，是今年销量的10倍。
“Smart watches will be the most important new product category in consumer electronics since the iPad defined the market for tablets,” Chris Jones, an analyst at Canalys, said in a statement.
Canalys的一名分析员克里斯·琼斯(Chris Jones)在一份声明中说，“智能手表将是自iPad定义平板电脑市场以来，消费性电子产品领域最重要的新产品类型。”
From a design standpoint, Galaxy Gear may be less innovative than some of the speculation around the device has suggested. The person with knowledge of the device said, for example, that it would not use a flexible screen, as some analysts had expected.
从设计的角度看，Galaxy Gear也许没有某些人所揣度的那么具有创新性。例如，了解该产品的人士说，它没有使用柔性显示屏，这和一些分析人士所期待的不一样。
News of the Galaxy Gear introduction was first reported by SamMobile, a Samsung fan site.
三星的粉丝网站SamMobile率先报道了关于Galaxy Gear的推介新闻。
Samsung declined to comment.
三星拒绝就此事置评。