The hot news in Silicon Valley legal circles these days is Apple’s titanic lawsuit against Samsung. Apple maintains that Samsung pilfered some of its iPhone and iPad designs when creating the Samsung Galaxy series of phones and tablets.
这些天，苹果和三星之间重量级的法律诉讼案成了硅谷(Silicon Valley)法律界的热门新闻 。苹果坚称，三星在开发三星Galaxy系列手机和平板电脑时，剽窃了iPhone和iPad的一些设计。
It’s a big, big deal; billions of dollars are at stake. And it’s already having an effect: these days, Samsung is being careful to avoid unvarnished Apple mimicry.
这次诉讼涉及数以十亿计的美元，实在是件了不得的大案。案子的影响已经开始显露：这些日子，三星小心翼翼地避免不加掩饰地抄袭苹果产品的外观。
Take the new Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1, an iPad competitor, which goes on sale Thursday. (It would be really nice if Samsung didn’t name every single product Galaxy, regardless of the category. If you say “I just bought the Samsung Galaxy,” nobody knows if you bought a phone, a tablet or a dishwasher.)
来看看三星新推出的Galaxy Note 10.1吧，这款iPad的竞争产品在本周四上市。（如果三星没有不顾产品类别，把每个产品都命名为Galaxy的话，那就太好了。如果你说“我刚买了一个三星Galaxy”，没人知道你买的是手机、平板电脑还是洗碗机。）
Its message to the tablet-buying world is this: “O.K., the iPad is great for consuming stuff — reading books, watching videos, surfing the Web. But our new Galaxy tablet is also good for creating stuff, for one simple reason: it comes with a pen. See how different we are from Apple?”
它给平板电脑买家的信息就是：“好吧，iPad很适于进行各种消费——不管是读书、观看视频，还是上网浏览。但我们的新款Galaxy平板电脑也很适于进行创作，原因很简单：它附带一支笔。你现在明白我们和苹果有什么不同了吧？”
Now, introducing a stylus in this day and age may seem a little backward. The PalmPilot had a stylus. The Apple Newton had a stylus. All of those awful, failed Windows tablet computers had styluses. When the iPad came out, requiring only a fingertip for control, styluses looked as quaint as hand-cranked cars.
在现今这个年月，介绍一款触控笔也许显得有点儿落伍。PalmPilot掌上电脑附有触控笔，苹果的Newton掌上电脑附有触控笔，所有那些糟糕失败的Windows平板电脑也附有触控笔。iPad问世之后，用户只需要用一根手指就能进行操控，这样一来，触控笔看上去就像手摇发动的汽车一样古怪。
But Samsung’s original Galaxy Note, a weirdly sized, five-inch combination tablet and phone, sold very well, at least in Europe — and it had a pen. Samsung hopes that lightning will strike twice with the 10-inch Galaxy Note 10.
最早的三星Galaxy Note产品集电脑和手机于一身，尺寸是相当怪异的五英寸（约合12.7厘米）。这款产品销售得相当好，至少在欧洲是这样——而且附有触控笔。三星希望，10英寸屏的Galaxy Note 10系列产品能再次撞上好运。
The base model, Wi-Fi only, costs $500. It comes with 16 gigabytes of storage (same as the base iPad model) and 2 gigabytes of memory (twice as much as the iPad).
仅带有无线网络功能的标配款Galaxy平板电脑只售500美元。它内置16G的存储卡（和标配款的iPad一样）和2G系统内存（内存是iPad的2倍）。
It’s absolutely loaded with features. Front and back cameras. A card slot to expand the storage (the iPad doesn’t have that). An infrared blaster that can control your TV system. Front-facing stereo speakers that sound much better than the iPad’s mono speaker.
Galaxy绝对不缺功能。它配有前后双摄像头，内置内存扩展卡槽（iPad没有这个配置），还配有能够远程控制电视的红外线发射器，以及前置的立体声扩音器，音效听上去比iPad的单音道扩音器要好得多。
Yet despite all of this, the Note is a hair thinner (0.35 inch) and lighter (1.3 pounds) than the iPad.
尽管配置了这么多功能，Note的尺寸仍然要比iPad纤细0.35英寸（约合8.89毫米），分量也比iPad轻了1.3磅（约合0.59公斤）。
When you hold it, you realize why right away: it feels plasticky and insubstantial. The plastic of the back panel is so thin, it could be vinyl; you can feel it flex against the circuit board within. The plastic stylus, which slips into a socket on the lower-right corner, is even airier.
一旦把它拿在手中，你马上就能明白其中原委：你会感觉到，它的塑料材质很不实在。后面板使用的塑料十分纤薄，可能是乙烯基质地；你能感到后面板紧压着里面的电路板。塑料触控笔被放在右下角的一个凹槽中，掂上去更没分量。
One of the Note’s chief breakthroughs is side-by-side apps. You can keep a Web page and a page of notes next to each other on the screen, and copy and paste (or drag) material between them. That’s a big change. It takes the tablet one step closer to the flexibility — and complexity — of a real PC.
Galaxy Note系列最重大的突破在于应用软件的并行运行。你能在屏幕上并排保留一个网页和一个文本编辑页面，然后在两者之间复制和粘贴（或拖曳）数据。这是一个重大的改变。它让平板电脑在灵活性和复杂性上向真正的个人电脑又迈进了一步。
At the moment, Samsung has permitted only six apps to work in side-by-side mode: e-mail, browser, video player, notepad, photo gallery and Polaris Office. Those are the natural apps you’d want to run this way, but it would be nice if you could multitask with any app at all.
目前，三星产品只允许六个应用程序以并行模式运行：它们是电子邮件、浏览器、视频播放器、便签纸、照片库和北极星办公软件(Polaris Office)。这些都是你自然而然地想要以并行模式运行的程序，不过，如果能够并行运行所有应用程序，将会更棒。
The pen is sometimes handy for regular finger tasks — tapping the on-screen keys or buttons — but really take off in S Note, a special program that accompanies the stylus. Here you can scribble freehand notes or make back-of-the-napkin drawings.
有时，使用触控笔应对一些通常由手指完成的任务会更便捷 ——比如点击屏幕上的快捷键或按钮——但是真正让Galaxy Note系列产品与众不同的是触控笔的一个附带功能。你可以随意写下潦草的便条，或者信手涂抹出一幅餐巾画。
In one mode, you can draw freehand and marvel as the software straightens out your squiggles into perfect lines and geometric shapes (Newton flashback!). In another, you can write words; the Note converts them into typed text. There’s even a math-formula mode for students, which recognizes your handwritten formulas and even solves them.
在这种模式下，你可以随意涂抹，然后就会惊叹不已地看到，软件把你的随手乱画拉直成了完美的线条和几何图形（苹果的牛顿系列又闪回了！）在另一种模式下，你可以手写文字；Note会把它们转变成打印字体。Note甚至还为学生们准备了数学公式模式，它能辨认你的手写公式，并运算出结果。
These features are impressive, but it’s hard to see how often they would be useful. The handwriting recognition is so half-baked, the oven must not even be warm. You can use it in any app, which is nice. But it frequently omits the spaces between words. Worse, there’s no easy way to edit the converted text, even though you’re sitting there with an editor’s pen in your hand. Tapping on the text doesn’t plant the insertion point there — it just makes a dot.
这些功能令人印象深刻，不过很难说它们能有多常用。辨认手写字迹的功能还只是很不成熟的半成品，有关开发还处于初级阶段。你可以在任何应用软件中使用这项功能，这佷好。不过，它会频繁地忽略字与字之间的空格。更糟的是，就算你坐在那里，手里拿着一支编辑用笔，要编辑转换之后的文档也不简单。轻点文档并不意味着你能在那里插入光标——那里只会留下一个点。
Moreover, Samsung’s software designers must be former Hollywood art directors who fabricated alien spacecraft; Samsung’s apps are festooned with bizarre icons. None  have text labels, and their logos are frequently so unhelpful they may as well be random Cyrillic letters. Would you guess, for example, that to turn on handwriting recognition, you tap an icon that shows a circle in front of a mountain?
而且，三星的软件设计者一定曾是负责虚构外星宇宙飞船的好莱坞艺术总监；三星的应用软件图标都设计得花里胡哨，外观怪异。没有一个软件有文本标签，而且软件标志经常毫无提示性，看上去和随机选择的西里尔字母差不多。比如，你能猜得出吗，用于打开你的手写识别应用软件的图标，看上去是一个位于山峰前的圆圈？
Some of the icons in S Note actually display a different menu every other time you tap them. I’m not making this up.
实际上，当你点击一些Note平板电脑上的图标时，它们每次打开的菜单都不一样。我可不是在信口胡说。
A feature called Smart Stay uses the front camera for eye tracking; when you’re not actually looking at the tablet, it dims the screen to save battery power. That’s supercool.
一个名为“智能休眠”(Smart Stay)的应用软件使用前置摄像头跟踪你的眼睛；当你没有注视平板电脑时，它会将屏幕变暗以节省电池能量。这可真是太棒了。
But over all, the Note feels like a laundry-list tablet. It has a higher feature count than any other tablet, but those features are stuffed into a machine with less coherence than any other tablet.
但总的来说，Galaxy Note让人感觉像是一个罗列任务清单的平板电脑。它的功能比其他任何平板电脑都多，可是这些功能都是被填塞进一台机器，功能之间的条理性比其他任何平板电脑都要差。
Clearly, Samsung had no Steve Jobs on hand to veto anything. Features that don’t work well are mixed in with the winners; features you’ll never use are jammed in with the useful ones.
显而易见，三星手边没有史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)这样的人物来否决任何设计。运行不好的程序被混杂在赢得用户的程序中；你从来都不用的程序则夹杂在有用的程序中。
In general, Samsung is on fire these days. Its Galaxy phones are the iPhone’s chief competitors. It’s willing to make bold design experiments — like adding a stylus. It’s building an ecosystem of accessories and online stores to rival Apple’s.
总体来看，三星这些日子很火爆。它的Galaxy手机是iPhone的首要竞争对手。三星愿意进行大胆的设计实验——比如增加触控笔。三星正在建立自己的附件生态系统和网店，要在这些方面跟苹果较劲。