Julie Murray shares an apartment with a friend on 95th Street near First Avenue. The building is respectably maintained, it’s true, and the bathroom is a reasonable size. There’s an elevator, and Ms. Murray, 22, a college senior hoping to work in the fashion industry, has her own room.
朱莉·穆雷(Julie Murray)和一个朋友合住在位于95街(95th Street)近第一大道(First Avenue)的一套公寓里。这栋大楼维护得十分体面，真的，浴室大小也相当合适。楼里有一座电梯，并且，22岁的穆雷作为一名想进入时尚界工作的大四学生，在公寓中还拥有自己的房间。
Shoot her. Just shoot her now.
崩了她吧。一枪崩了她。
“The Upper East Side is very inconvenient for 20-somethings,” Ms. Murray said. “The type of people we want to be with are all downtown.” She therefore conducts her social life in and around Union Square, and either waits an hour for the No. 6 train home in the wee hours of the morning or reluctantly ponies up for a cab.
“上东区对20来岁的人来说非常不方便，”穆雷说，“我们想要交往的人都在下城区。”为此，她的社交活动就主要在联合广场(Union Square)及附近一些地方进行了。然后，要么苦等一个小时，赶凌晨时分的6号列车回家；要么只好掏钱坐出租车。
On those rare occasions when she hangs around her own neighborhood, she feels decidedly out of place. “This is a family area,” Ms. Murray said. “There are a lot of strollers and double strollers, and women use them as weapons. They’re ruthless. They just bulldoze you over. If it weren’t so much money, I’d be living in the East Village or on the Lower East Side.”
偶尔有几次，她在住处附近活动的时候，感觉地方完全不对，“这里是个家庭聚居区，”穆雷说，“到处都是婴儿车和双胞胎婴儿车，而那些女人简直把她们当成了武器。她们像推土机一样，毫不留情地向你冲过来。如果不是花销太大的话，我会住到东村(East Village)或下东区(Lower East Side)去。”
In the 1970s and ’80s, the Upper East Side was considered plenty cool enough for young New Yorkers, even those who could afford to live anywhere they wanted. Since then, many of the young and the restless have been drawn downtown and to Brooklyn. And yet, the Upper East Side continues to house a healthy contingent of 20-somethings, thanks to rents that are more affordable than those in catnip neighborhoods.
早在20世纪七、八十年代，那些年轻的纽约人，甚至那些住哪儿都负担得起的人，都曾认为上东区是个相当酷的地方。但从那以后，不少年轻人和不安分的人都被吸引到了下城区和布鲁克林(Brooklyn)。然而，上东区还是住着大批20多岁的人，这得感谢这里比其它如猫薄荷般新奇有趣的社区更加实惠的租金。
A brief social history: Thirty and 35 years ago a large cohort of the just-out-of-college, some with trust funds or parents willing to be lease guarantors, eagerly scouted the studios and one-bedroom apartments in walk-ups on the side streets of Yorkville and Lenox Hill or in the postwar high-rises complete with doormen and shiny lobbies on the avenues east of Lexington from the low 70s to the mid-90s. One building, Normandie Court on East 95th Street, was a such a postgrad magnet it was nicknamed Dorm-andie Court.
来看一小段社会发展史吧：大约三十到三十五年前，一大群刚刚大学毕业的同龄人依靠信托基金，或他们那些愿意当租赁担保人的父母，在约克维尔(Yorkville)和莱诺克斯山(Lenox Hill)街区几条小路上的无电梯公寓楼，或在莱克星顿大道(Lexington)东边从70几号街到90几号街上的几栋有门童和光鲜大堂的战后高层建筑中，迫不及待地搜寻着一些单间公寓或单卧室公寓。位于东95街的诺曼底庭院(Normandie Court)就是这样一栋对毕业生充满吸引力的建筑，它被昵称为“诺曼底宿舍”(Dorm-andie Court)。
These happy new arrivals gathered for drinks or dinner at the restaurants and bars that lined Second and Third Avenues: Dorrian’s Red Hand, Willy’s, Martell’s, Cromie’s, Mumbles, Kinsale Tavern, the Green Kitchen and Dresner’s were all crammed with 20-somethings just like them.
这些快乐的新住户，在第二大道和第三大道上成排的酒吧与餐馆里喝酒聚餐：在Dorrian’s Red Hand餐厅、Willy's餐厅、Martell's餐厅、Cromie's餐厅、Mumbles餐厅、Kinsale Tavern餐厅、the Green Kitchen餐厅和Dresner's餐厅里，都挤满了和他们一样的20多岁的年轻人。
Others, with more anemic bank accounts, looked on the Upper West Side, the Lower East Side, the East Village and — if they were really hurting for funds — in the distant, seamier precincts of Brooklyn. These urban pioneers understood that if they wanted to see their Upper East Side friends, they’d have to be the ones to hop on the train. No one but no one was going to make the long, parlous journey to Williamsburg or Boerum Hill.
而另外一些银行存款不太充裕的人，会去看看上西区(Upper West Side)、下东区(Lower East Side)、东村(East Village)以及——若的确囊中羞涩的话——布鲁克林区的一些较偏远和脏乱的区域。这群都市开拓者深知，如果想去看望住在上东区的朋友，他们就得做那个跳上火车的人。但没有谁会踏上漫长而危险的旅途，去往威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)或波兰希尔(Boerum Hill)区。
Now, of course, thanks to the capricious world of real estate, it’s a whole different story. Younger New Yorkers began making the shift away from the Upper East Side almost 20 years ago, according to Kathy Braddock, a founder of Rutenberg Realty. “That’s when gentrification came to the East Village, the Lower East Side, ABC Town and Brooklyn, areas that young people wouldn’t have previously considered unless they were real adventurers.”
当然，现在的情形已经完全不一样了，这得感谢地产市场的变幻莫测。鲁滕贝格地产公司(Rutenberg Realty)的创始人凯西·布拉多克(Kathy Braddock)说，大约20年前，较年轻的纽约客们开始从上东区撤离。“而正是在那段时间，士绅化进程（gentrification，指一个地区通过重建而使地价上升，较富裕的人群迁入、较低下阶层则被迫迁出的现象——译注）开始蔓延于东村、下东区、字母城(ABC Town)和布鲁克林，都是这些年轻人之前根本不会考虑的区域，除非他们是真正的冒险家。”
Those who have the wherewithal are now reflexively flocking to Brooklyn and the Lower East Side. But rents there have soared, and many downtown wannabes are stunned by how little their money gets them. Ms. Murray, for example, recalled $2,000-a-month studios without cabinets, stoves or ovens, and with bathrooms that required a perilous climb over the sink to reach the toilet.
如今，那些有资金的人立刻涌入了布鲁克林和下东区。但租金也随之水涨船高，于是，许多下城区的仰慕者们惊讶地发现，他们的钱所换来的居住条件是多么有限。比如穆雷，她还记得，那些每月2000美元（约合人民币12451元）的单间公寓不但没有柜子和炉灶，而且还带那种需要小心翼翼跨过水池才能进到卫生间的浴室。
Young apartment hunters on the Upper East Side, on the other hand, can expect fully outfitted kitchens, bathrooms that don’t require contortions — and comparative bargains. And in many instances they’re finding contentment in a neighborhood they had previously associated with old money and old fogies, i.e. people over 35. Others, while bowing to practical considerations, go kicking and screaming all the way uptown, and resign themselves to a social life that involves travel.
而另一边，在上东区搜寻公寓的年轻人们，却可以憧憬有一应俱全的厨房，有不用把身体扭成各种形状就能进去的浴室——以及相对实惠的价格。很多情况下，他们会在这些之前住着有钱人和一帮“老古董”（比如35岁以上的人）的社区中，找到满足感。而其余的人则屈服于现实的考虑，只好一路捶胸顿足地走向上城区，默默忍受起需要舟车劳顿才能实现的社交生活。
“I have friends in the East Village who will not come up here,” said Alexandra Perrotta, 27, a recruiter for a law firm who just moved into a studio on 97th Street between Park and Lexington. “I have to go to them.”
“我有些朋友住在东村，他们不会上这儿来，”27岁的亚历山大·佩罗塔(Alexandra Perrotta)说，他是一家法律公司的招聘专员，刚刚搬到公园大道和莱克星顿大道之间、位于97街的一套单间公寓里。“我不得不去找他们。”
When Arielle Grabel, 27, who works in public relations, was looking for an apartment three years ago, she firmly stated her terms: nothing above 20th Street. After she saw what was available, she adjusted her demands to “O.K., nothing above 40th Street.”
三年前，当从事公关工作的27岁的阿瑞尔·格拉贝尔(Arielle Grabel)开始找房时，她毫不动摇地开出了自己的条件：决不能越过20街。看了现有房源后，她调整了自己的需求，“好吧，决不能超过40街。”
“And then I was saying: ‘O.K., if the best I can do is the 50s, that’s not so high,’ and then eventually, ‘O.K., 74th Street it is,’ ” said Ms. Grabel, who, for a monthly figure she characterizes as between $2,100 and $2,300 month, has a large studio with glossy floors and marble countertops in an elevator building.
“然后我说：‘好吧，如果我力所能及的最佳选择是50几街，那超得也不算多，’但结果，到了最后，‘好吧，74街，就是这儿了，’”格拉贝尔说。她以被她形容为每月介于2100美元至2300美元（约合人民币13073元至14318元）的一笔费用，租下了一栋电梯楼中的大单间公寓，那里有光滑的地板和大理石的台面。
She has two good friends in the neighborhood, but has been unsuccessful in recruiting others, even if it’s just to come uptown for drinks and dinner.
她还有两个好朋友也住在这个社区，但没能成功招呼到其他人来落脚，哪怕只是来上城区喝喝酒或吃吃饭。
“They say there’s nothing to do up here,” said Ms. Grabel, who herself prefers the night life downtown. But perhaps her sales pitch needs a bit of work. She tells her friends the Upper East Side isn’t that bad, not that far from the action, and the people aren’t that old.
“他们说，上这儿来没事可做，”格拉贝尔说，她自己也更喜欢下城区的夜生活。不过，可能是她的推销词需要再修饰一下。她对朋友们说的是，上东区没那么糟糕，也不是那么冷清，人们也没那么老。
“Most of my listings are on the Upper East Side, and it’s hard to even get certain clients to come up here and look at them,” said Eric Rohe, an agent with Citi Habitats. “They want to be on Fulton Street or Water Street or in Brooklyn. They want a studio with exposed brick and just enough closet space, and they want to be near the greatest bars and restaurants. And they want the rent to be somewhere between $1,400 and $1,750.”
“我的大多数房源都在上东区，甚至很难让某些客户到我们这来看一看，”花旗居屋(Citi Habitats)的地产经纪人埃里克•罗(Eric Rohe)说，“他们想住在福尔顿街(Fulton Street)或沃顿街(Water Street)，或是住在布鲁克林；他们想要一套有裸露的砖墙和足够衣柜空间的单间公寓；他们还想离最好的酒吧和餐馆近一些。但是，他们希望租金在1400美元至1750美元（约合人民币8715元至10894元）之间。”
“Where they want to live,” Mr. Rohe added, “the rent for a place like that will be $2,600. But there are plenty of spacious studios with exposed brick in a much more affordable price range on the Upper East Side.”
“在他们想住的区域，”罗补充说，“那样一个地方的租金会是2600美元（约合人民币16185元）。但上东区有很多带裸砖墙的宽敞单间公寓，价格区间要实惠得多。”
If Mr. Rohe can get people to come to his office, he’ll print out every listing on the Upper East Side and every downtown listing in a client’s price range. “Nine times out of 10,” he said, “there will be 30 to 60 listings on the Upper East Side, compared to a handful downtown.”
如果罗可以把客人请到办公室里来，他会把处于客人目标价格区间内的每套上东区的房源和每套下城区的房源，都打印出来。“十次有九次都会是这样，”他说，“在上东区能找到30至60套房源，而相比之下，下城区只有十多套。”
According to statistics compiled by the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, a studio on the Upper East Side averages about $2,000 to $2,225 a month, depending on precise location, and a one-bedroom runs $2,600 to $3,100 a month.
根据地产评估公司Miller Samuel汇集的数据，一套上东区的单间公寓，依具体位置不同，月租金平均在2000美元至2225美元（约合人民币12451元至13851元）；而一套单卧室的公寓，月租在2600美元至3100美元（约合人民币16186元至19298元）。
Those looking for a studio in the more with-it redoubts can expect to pay more than $2,300 a month on the Lower East Side, more than $2,500 in the East Village and more than $2,700 in Williamsburg. A one-bedroom runs about $2,827 on the Lower East Side, $2,861 in the East Village and $3,300 in Williamsburg.
那些想在更时髦的大楼里找一套单间公寓的人，在下东区可能会支付超过2300美元（约合人民币14318元）的月租，在东村会超过2500美元（约合人民币15563元），而在威廉斯堡则超过2700美元（约合人民币16808元）。一套单卧室的公寓在下东区月租大约2827美元（约合人民币17599元），在东村约为2861美元（约合人民币17810元），而在威廉斯堡则大约要3300美元（约合人民币20543元）。
But living on the Upper East Side doesn’t just mean a smaller monthly outlay; it means more and better room for the money. The reason for the rent differential: supply and demand. The Upper East Side is a thick slice of land with a great density and diversity of housing stock, said Gary Malin, the president of Citi Habitats. “It runs the gamut from entry-level walk-ups to elevator buildings without a doorman to elevator buildings with a part-time doorman to elevator building with a full-time doorman.”
但是，在上东区生活不仅仅意味着更少的月租支出，还意味着这笔钱能提供更多、更好的空间。租金差异的原因在于：供给和需求。上东区是一片沃土，住宅的密度很高，且房屋存量十分多元化，花旗居屋的总裁加里·马林(Gary Malin)说。“这里从最普通的无电梯公寓楼，到无门卫的电梯楼，到有兼职门卫的电梯楼，再到有全职门卫的电梯楼，一应俱全。”
“You don’t have that much inventory and that variety in the more hip, trendy areas downtown,” Mr. Malin added. “But so many young people in their 20s are looking there now, which drives prices up. Everybody in New York has a wish list. If they can’t find it below 23rd Street, they may go to the Upper East Side for the perfect apartment, if not the perfect location.”
“在更时尚、新潮的下城区，你是找不到那么多各式各样的房源的，”马林补充说，“但很多20出头的年轻人如今都去那儿找房，于是抬高了房价。每个在纽约的人都有一张愿望清单。如果他们在23街以下找不到房子，就会去上东区寻找最完美的公寓，哪怕位置并不完美。”
Such was the case with Zoey Topper, 22, an associate at a public relations firm, who with her roommate, Noah Silverstein, also 22, was hoping to find the quintessential apartment on the Lower East Side or in Greenwich Village. But she quickly learned that their budget, $3,000 tops, would get them a space that compared unfavorably with a shoe box.
22岁的左伊·托佩尔(Zoey Topper)是一家公关公司的合伙人，她就是这样一个例子。她和同样22岁的室友诺亚·西尔弗斯坦(Noah Silverstein)希望在下东区(Lower East Side)或格林威治村(Greenwich Village)找到最经典的公寓。但她立刻发现，他们的预算最高是3000美元（约合人民币18676元），只能让他们找到一个堪比鞋盒大小的地方。
“That’s when we decided to go to the Upper East Side,” said Ms. Topper, who lives on the third floor of a walk-up in the 80s near First Avenue. She has her own large bedroom — “it’s bigger than the room I had growing up.”
“于是我们决定去上东区，”托佩尔说。现在她住在80几街近第一大道的一栋无电梯公寓楼的第三层。她有一间自己的大卧室——“比我小时候在家里住的那间还要大。”
Still, she says, nights out tend to start and end in the East Village.
尽管如此，她说，夜生活总是在东村里开始和落幕。
Downtown bar and restaurant owners have taken note. “We noticed a lot of people from uptown who would travel downtown to our places,” said Mark Gibson, a co-owner of the gastro pubs Wren in the East Village and Wilfie & Nell in the West Village. “We saw the tall buildings on the Upper East Side, and we thought the neighborhood was underserved.”
下城区的酒吧与餐馆的业主们也注意到了这一点。“我们发现，很多来自上城区的人也专程到下城区我们这些地方，”作为东村的餐饮酒吧Wren和西村的Wilfie & Nell的合伙人之一马克·吉布森(Mark Gibson)说，“我们看到上东区的高楼大厦，于是觉得那边的社区配套可真是不理想。”
So Mr. Gibson and his partners recently opened the Penrose on Second Avenue between 82nd and 83rd. “It’s doing really well,” he said.
所以，吉布森和他的搭档最近又在82街与83街间的第二大道(Second Avenue)上开了一家the Penrose。“生意非常好，”他说。
Similar observations propelled Michael Chernow, a co-owner of the Meatball Shop, to open an outpost on Second Avenue and 76th Street. “It’s our busiest restaurant to date,” said Mr. Chernow, whose other locations include the Lower East Side and Chelsea. “More and more I’m hearing from colleagues who have bars and restaurants downtown that the Upper East Side is a great place to open up.”
Meatball Shop餐厅的合伙人之一麦克·切尔诺(Michael Chernow)也观察到了这一现象。这促使他在第二大道与76街之间开了一家前哨战。“这是我们迄今为止最繁忙的一间餐厅，”切尔诺说，他还在下东区和切尔西(Chelsea)开有分店。“我听到越来越多在下城区开酒吧和餐馆的同行说，上东区是开店的好去处。”
When Michal Adut and her boyfriend, DeJohn Rose, 26, decided to move in together, they were both living in Williamsburg and wanted to stay there. “We loved the restaurants, we loved our coffee places and we loved the culture,” said Ms. Adut, 27. Their budget hovered at $2,500 a month. But rent for apartments they deemed livable and well situated started at $2,900. “There was a point that we got really upset,” she said.
当米甲·阿杜特(Michal Adut)与她26岁的男友德约翰·罗斯(DeJohn Rose)决定搬到一起生活的时候，他们都住在威廉斯堡，并想继续待在那儿。“我们喜欢这里的餐馆，我们喜欢那些喝咖啡的地方，我们还很喜欢这里的文化，”27岁的阿杜特说。他们的预算在每月2500美元（约合人民币15563元）上下。但是，他们认为住得下去且位置不错的公寓，租金的起价就要2900美元（约合人民币18053元）。“有一瞬间，我们真的很沮丧。”她说。