WASHINGTON — President Trump on Monday removed Anthony Scaramucci from his position as communications director, the White House announced, ousting him just days after Mr. Scaramucci unloaded a crude verbal tirade against other senior members of the president’s senior staff.
华盛顿——白宫宣布，特朗普在周一免去了安东尼·斯卡拉穆奇(Anthony Scaramucci)通讯联络主管的职位。数天前，斯卡拉穆奇曾用粗率的言语攻击总统的其他高级幕僚。
“Anthony Scaramucci will be leaving his role as White House Communications Director,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said in a statement. “Mr. Scaramucci felt it was best to give Chief of Staff John Kelly a clean slate and the ability to build his own team. We wish him all the best.”
“安东尼·斯卡拉穆奇将离开白宫通讯联络主管的位置，”白宫新闻秘书萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)在一份声明中说。“斯卡拉穆奇认为，现在最好是为幕僚长约翰·凯利(John Kelly)提供一块白布，让他能打造自己的团队。我们祝他一切顺利。”
Mr. Scaramucci’s abrupt removal came just 10 days after the wealthy New York financier was brought on to the West Wing staff, a move that convulsed an already chaotic White House and led to the departures of Sean Spicer, the former press secretary, and Reince Priebus, the president’s first chief of staff.
斯卡拉穆奇是一位富有的纽约金融家，他的突然免职距离加入白宫西翼仅10天；他的加入搅动了本已混乱的白宫，导致前新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)和总统的首任幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)的离职。
In a Twitter message just before 5:30 on Monday morning, just hours before the announcement about Mr. Scaramucci, Mr. Trump insisted that there has been “No WH chaos!”
周一早上，接近5点30分时，特朗普在Twitter上坚称“白宫不存在混乱！”仅仅数小时之后，关于斯卡拉穆奇的公告就发布了。
The decision to remove Mr. Scaramucci became public as Mr. Kelly, who replaced Mr. Priebus as the top adviser in the White House, began his first day in charge of the White House staff. He told aides gathered in early-morning staff meetings that he intended to impose a new sense of order and operational discipline that had been absent under his predecessor.
免职斯卡拉穆奇的决定，是在凯利取代普利巴斯成为白宫的首席顾问，开始管理白宫幕僚的第一天公布的。清晨，当助理们聚集在一起开幕僚会议时，他告诉大家，他打算引入新的、普利巴斯担任幕僚长时所缺乏的秩序感和运作规范。
Mr. Scaramucci had boasted about reporting directly to the president, not the chief of staff. But the decision to remove him came at Mr. Kelly’s request, the people said.
斯卡拉穆奇吹嘘自己直接向总统而不是幕僚长汇报工作。但有人说，他的免职决定是应凯利的要求做出的。
It was not clear whether Mr. Scaramucci, who is known informally as “The Mooch,” will remain at the White House in another position or will leave altogether. The White House had originally said that his official start date as a government employee was to be August 15, although he appeared to begin performing his duties immediately.
斯卡拉穆奇昵称“莫奇”(The Mooch)，目前尚不清楚他是要在白宫担任其他职位，还是完全离开。白宫最初表示，他从8月15日起成为政府雇员，但他似乎马上就开始担当起了新的职责。
While Mr. Kelly’s objection was the decisive factor in Mr. Scaramucci’s departure, people close to the decision said that Mr. Trump had quickly soured on the wisecracking, Long Island-bred former hedge fund manager, and so had his family.
虽然斯卡拉穆奇离任的决定性因素是他不受凯利待见，但消息人士表示，特朗普及其家人和这位爱说俏皮话、在长岛长大的前对冲基金经理之间，关系也在迅速变僵。
Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter, and Jared Kushner, her husband, had pushed the president to hire Mr. Scaramucci, seeing him as a way to force out Mr. Priebus, the former national Republican committee chairman, and his allies in the West Wing.
总统的女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)和女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)曾推动总统雇用斯卡拉穆奇，认为这有助于将前共和党全国委员会主席普利巴斯及其在白宫西翼的盟友挤出局。
In that, Mr. Scaramucci was successful. Mr. Spicer, a close ally of Mr. Priebus, resigned just hours after the news about Mr. Scaramucci’s hiring was made public. And shortly after Mr. Scaramucci called Mr. Priebus a “paranoid schizophrenic, a paranoiac,” — adding a more vulgar term to the beginning of the phrase — Mr. Priebus, too, offered his resignation.
在这件事上，斯卡拉穆奇做得很成功。普利巴斯的亲密盟友斯派塞就在斯卡拉穆奇被聘用的消息公布几个小时后提出辞职的。之后，斯卡拉穆奇说普利巴斯是“偏执狂精神分裂症患者，有妄想症”——在这句话前面还有一个更粗俗的词——普利巴斯也提交了辞呈。
Mr. Trump was initially pleased by Mr. Scaramucci’s harsh remarks, directed at Mr. Priebus and Steve Bannon, the chief White House strategist. But over the weekend, after speaking with his family and Mr. Kelly, the president began to see the brash actions of his subordinate as a political liability and potential embarrassment, according to two people familiar with his thinking.
两个了解特朗普想法的人说，一开始，特朗普看到斯卡拉穆奇针对普利巴斯和白宫首席策略师史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)言辞尖利还很高兴。但是周末，在和家人以及凯利聊过之后，总统开始觉得下属这种无礼之举是政治上的累赘，可能会造成尴尬。
Mr. Scaramucci’s swift departure is an early indication that Mr. Kelly intends to assert his authority over the operations of the White House, and that several of the big personalities there — including Mr. Kushner, Ms. Trump and Mr. Bannon — may be inclined to defer to him.
斯卡拉穆奇的快速离开是一个早期迹象，表明凯利打算对白宫的运行施加自己的权威，白宫的几个重量级角色——包括库什纳、伊万卡和班农在内——可能愿意听从他的意见。
It also suggests that, at least for the moment, Mr. Kelly has the president’s support in that effort.
这也意味着，至少就目前来说，凯利在这方面获得了总统的支持。
The president still values Mr. Scaramucci, according to people close Mr. Trump and his family, and is hoping to find another, less high profile, position for him in the White House — although it is uncertain if Mr. Scaramucci would be willing to accept a demotion.
了解特朗普及其家人的消息人士说，总统仍然重视斯卡拉穆奇，希望能为他在白宫找到另一个不那么高调的职位——尽管目前还不清楚斯卡拉穆奇是否愿意接受降级。