WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s first weekend in office unfolded much the way things often did during his campaign: with angry Twitter messages, a familiar obsession with slights and a series of meandering and at times untrue statements, all eventually giving way to attempts at damage control.
华盛顿——唐纳德·特朗普总统上任后第一个周末的表现跟他在竞选期间没有太大不同：在Twitter上发布愤怒的推文，和往常一样，沉迷于藐视他人，发了一大堆松散的、偶尔失实的声明，所有这些最终以止损的企图为结束。
The problem is that what works on the way to the White House does not always work once a candidate gets there.
问题在于，竞选时奏效的方式，在候选人入主白宫后就并不总是奏效了。
To the extent that there was a plan to take advantage of the first days of his administration, when a president is usually at his maximum leverage, Trump threw it aside with a decision to lash out about crowd sizes at his swearing in and to rewrite the history of his dealings with intelligence agencies.
特朗普没打算充分利用刚上任的优势——这通常是一个总统影响力最大的时候——而是把它抛到一边，决定抨击关于他就职仪式上观众人数的报道，篡改他与情报机构打交道的历史。
The lack of discipline troubled even senior members of Trump’s circle, some of whom had urged him not to indulge his simmering resentment at what he saw as unfair news coverage. Instead, Trump chose to listen to other aides who shared his outrage and desire to punch back. By the end of the weekend, he and his team were scrambling to get back on script.
这种自律性的缺乏甚至让特朗普内部的一些高级成员感到困扰，其中一些人劝他不要再为在他看来不公正的新闻报道肆意酝酿愤恨情绪。但是，特朗普选择听从其他一些和他一样愤怒、想要反击的助手的建议。到这个周末结束时，他和他的团队在忙着让事情回到原定轨道。
New presidents typically find the adjustment from candidate to leader to be a jarring one, and Trump was not the first to get drawn into the latest flap in a way that fritters away whatever political goodwill comes with an inauguration. Former President Bill Clinton got off to a tough start by engaging on issues that were not central to his agenda, most notably gays in the military, and took a while to learn how to focus on his highest priorities.
新总统通常会发现从候选人到领导人的转变很不顺利，特朗普最近陷入的这场闹剧，把就职典礼带来的那点政治善意挥霍殆尽，然而他并非第一个有此遭遇的总统。前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)一上任就因为介入一些非核心问题而陷入麻烦，最值得一提的就是军队同性恋问题，他过了一段时间才学会如何把注意力放在最重要的问题上。
But Clinton showed none of the combativeness and anger of Trump.
但克林顿从未表现出特朗普那种好斗和愤怒。
“The adjustment from private citizen to running the country is unbelievably hard,” said Dan Pfeiffer, a longtime adviser to former President Barack Obama. He said that what people, even new presidents, often fail to fully understand “is that after you stand out there in the weather and take the oath of office in front of an adoring crowd, you walk into that building and you are in charge of the free world.”
“从普通公民到国家领袖的转变非常艰难，”前总统贝拉克·奥巴马的长期顾问丹·法伊弗(Dan Pfeiffer)说。他说，人们——甚至包括新总统——经常不能充分理解的一点是，“在恶劣的天气里，在崇拜你的观众面前，你宣誓就职了，然后就要走进那座建筑，开始掌管这个自由的国家”。
At first, at least, Trump seemed to be resisting the notion that he should adjust his approach now that he is in office. After all, his pugilistic style was a winning formula, one that got him to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in the first place. Many of his supporters cheer him taking on the establishment. And some allies said any blowback would not matter long anyway.
至少一开始，特朗普似乎是在抵制上任后必须调整行事方法这个观点。毕竟，好斗的风格正是他的制胜法宝，是把他带到宾夕法尼亚大道1600号的手段。他的很多支持者为他的反体制行为欢呼。有些盟友说，不管怎样，任何负面影响都不会长期存在。
“Ultimately this is about governing,” said former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who has advised Trump. “There are two things he’s got to do between now and 2020: He has to keep America safe and create a lot of jobs. That’s what he promised in his speech. If he does those two things, everything else is noise.”
“归根结底还是要看治理，”特朗普的顾问、前众议院议长纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)说。“从现在到2020年，他必须做好两件事：确保美国安全，创造很多就业机会。那是他在演讲中承诺的事情。如果做到了这两点，那么其他的都无关紧要。”
“The average American isn’t paying attention to this stuff,” he added. “They are going to look around in late 2019 and early 2020 and ask themselves if they are doing better. If the answer’s yes, they are going to say, ‘Cool, give me some more.'”
“普通美国人不关心这个，”他还说。“他们会在2019年底和2020年初环视四周，问问自己是否过得更好了。如果答案是肯定的，他们会说，‘太棒了，再给我来一些。’”
That is the long view and ultimately perhaps the most important one. The short view from many political professionals is that Trump’s debut was not a success. The president himself seemed to be trying to find a way forward as the weekend proceeded. He danced to “My Way” on Friday night and did it his way on Saturday, but by Sunday seemed to be trying something different.
这是从长远，最终或许也是最重要的角度来看。从很多政治内行的短期视角来看，特朗普的初次亮相并不成功。随着周末的继续，总统自己似乎正在设法向前看。周五晚上，他在《我的路》(My Way)的歌声中起舞，并用自己的方式度过了周六，但到了周日，他似乎正在进行不一样的尝试。
A day after waves of opponents gathered in Washington and cities around the nation and world to protest his presidency, Trump began Sunday still in a mood to push back.
一天前，如潮的反对者聚集在华盛顿和全美乃至全世界的城市，抗议他当总统，但周日一早，特朗普仍试图反击。
“Watched protests yesterday but was under the impression that we just had an election!” he posted on Twitter in the morning. “Why didn’t these people vote? Celebs hurt cause badly.”
“看到了昨天的抗议，但还以为我们刚举行完选举呢！”他周日早上在Twitter上发文。“这些人为什么没有投票？名人严重伤害了我们的事业。”
Kellyanne Conway, his counselor, contributed to the combative mood in an interview with NBC’s Chuck Todd when she described the falsehoods that the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, had told reporters Saturday night as “alternative facts” — an assertion that lit up Twitter.
他的顾问凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)是造成这种好斗情绪的原因之一。接受NBC查克·托德(Chuck Todd)的采访时，康维称白宫新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)周六晚上对记者说的谎话是“另一种事实”。这一说法在Twitter上走红。
However, Trump later adopted the more above-it-all demeanor that presidents typically take. “Peaceful protests are a hallmark of our democracy,” he wrote on Twitter. “Even if I don’t always agree, I recognize the rights of people to express their views.”
然而，特朗普后来采取了一个总统通常应有的高姿态。“和平抗议是我们的民主的一个特征，”他在Twitter上写道。“虽然我并不总是同意，但我认同民众表达自己观点的权利。”
Trump grew increasingly angry on Inauguration Day after reading a series of Twitter messages pointing out that the size of his inaugural crowd did not rival that of Obama’s in 2009. But he spent his Friday night in a whirlwind of celebration and affirmation. When he awoke on Saturday morning, after his first night in the executive mansion, the glow was gone, several people close to him said, and the new president was filled anew with a sense of injury.
就职日当天有一系列推文指出，特朗普就职典礼的观礼人群规模比不上奥巴马2009年的就职典礼。看到这些的特朗普越来越生气。但周五晚上，他马不停蹄地参加了各种庆祝和批准活动。多名接近他的人士称，周六早上，在白宫度过了第一个夜晚的特朗普醒来后，喜悦消失了，这位新总统的心里重新充满了受伤的感觉。
He became even more agitated after learning of a pool report by a Time magazine reporter incorrectly reporting that a bust of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had been removed from the Oval Office. (The reporter, Zeke Miller, did not see the bust and after realizing the error quickly issued a correction and apology.)
在得知《时代》(Time)杂志的一名记者在一篇联合采访报道中错误地称牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)的半身雕像被移出了椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)后，他变得更加激动。（名为齐克·米勒[Zeke Miller]的这名记者没有看到那尊塑像。意识到错误后，他很快便发表了更正和道歉声明。）
While he was eager to counterattack, several senior advisers urged him to move on and focus on the responsibilities of office during his first full day as president. That included a high-stakes trip to the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency, where he had been coached to demonstrate support of the agency and criticize Senate Democrats for delaying confirmation of his nominee to lead it, Mike Pompeo. They left thinking he agreed.
尽管他急不可耐地想要进行反击，但多名高级顾问劝他向前看，把重点放在上任之初的职责上。这包括事关重大的中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)总部之行。在那里，他按照指导表示自己得到了该机构的支持，并指责参议院的民主党人拖延批准他提名的中情局局长人选迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)。他们离开时，以为他同意了。
But Spicer, who often berated reporters for what he called biased coverage during the campaign, shares Trump’s dark view of the news media and advocated an opening-day declaration of war.
和特朗普一样，竞选期间常因在他看来有偏见的报道而斥责记者的斯派塞，也对新闻媒体持负面态度，支持一开始就宣战。
After racing through his words of reconciliation at Langley, Trump launched into a rambling, unscripted discussion that drifted to the topic of crowd size, making a series of verifiably false claims. Spicer then went to the White House briefing room for his first turn at the lectern and issued a blistering attack on reporters, made his own false claims and then stormed out without taking questions.
在兰利草草说完和解的话后，特朗普开始了一场热烈的脱稿讨论，说了一系列经证实不属实的话。讨论内容凌乱，后来转移到了观礼人群规模的话题上。之后，斯派塞来到白宫新闻发布厅并首次登台，对记者发起了猛烈的攻击。他自己说了一些假话，然后没有接受记者提问就怒气冲冲地走了出去。