With less than a month before its initial public offering, the Alibaba Group is intent on showing just how profitable — and focused on mobile — it really is.
还有不到一个月就要进行首次公开募股的阿里巴巴集团，打算向世人展示它有多能赚钱——以及它是多么关注移动业务。
The Chinese e-commerce behemoth disclosed on Wednesday that its profit nearly tripled in the quarter ended June 30, to $2 billion. That represented a staggering 80 percent profit margin, given its $2.5 billion in revenue.
这家中国电商巨头周三表示，在6月30日结束的季度中，公司利润几乎增加了两倍，达到20亿美元（约合123亿元人民币）。鉴于其总收入为25亿美元，说明利润率达到了令人震惊的80%。
With its latest performance figures, Alibaba is likely to continue to stoke interest in its hotly anticipated market debut. The stock sale is expected to be one of the biggest ever, raising perhaps $20 billion and capping the emergence of China’s Internet industry as powerfully growing sector.
有了这些最新的绩效数据，已经备受期待的阿里巴巴IPO很可能会进一步吸引人们的兴趣。此次股票交易可能会成为历史上规模最大的一次，筹资额或许将达到200亿美元，并说明中国的互联网行业的确是个增长势头强劲的行业。
Alibaba is expected to unveil the expected price range of its I.P.O. as soon as Tuesday, according to people briefed on the matter. That will kick off a two-week roadshow for investors that begins in Asia and then reaching the United States the week of Sept. 8.
知情人士称，阿里巴巴预计最早将于周二公布其IPO的预期价格范围。由此，阿里巴巴将为投资者展开为期两周的路演，从亚洲开始，然后于9月8日那周抵达美国。
The company hopes to then price its offering and begin trading sometime the week of Sept. 15, though these people cautioned that its plans may still change.
阿里巴巴希望到那时再给它的股票定价，然后从9月15日那周开始进行交易，尽管这些人指出，公司计划仍有可能改变。
In the meantime, however, Alibaba is hoping that its latest results will whet potential investors’ appetite for growth. Its adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which excludes some noncash charges and onetime items, rose 41 percent, to $1.4 billion.
但与此同时，阿里巴巴希望最新的业绩能激发潜在投资者对增长的兴趣。经过调整后，阿里巴巴未计利息、税收、折旧和摊销之前的赢利增至14亿美元，增幅41%。一些非现金费用，以及以前的项目不计在内。
Those numbers are impressive, but Alibaba is perhaps more eager to promote its gains in building out its mobile offerings.
这些数字相当出色，但阿里巴巴可能更希望强调自己在拓展移动业务方面的收益。
Nearly a third of Alibaba’s gross merchandise volume, or the value of goods sold on Alibaba’s marketplaces, comes from mobile, compared with just 12 percent a year ago. And the number of the market operator’s mobile monthly active users rose 15 percent over the previous quarter, to 188 million.
在阿里巴巴的成交总额，也就是阿里巴巴旗下各购物平台售出商品的价值中，近三分之一来自移动终端，而一年前，这一比例仅为12%。同时，在前一个季度，这家市场运营商的移动活跃用户人数每月增加15%，增至1.88亿。
In some ways, the shift represents a lesson learned from the last giant Internet I.P.O., that of Facebook. As the social networking colossus went public in the spring of 2012, analysts began to question whether the company was adequately preparing for the explosion in smartphones and tablets, while investors appeared lukewarm about the stock. After all, at the time of its market debut, the site had only begun to show sponsored posts in users’ mobile news feeds.
从某些方面来看，这些变化表明阿里巴巴从上一次巨型互联网企业——即Facebook——的IPO中吸取了教训。随着这家社交网络巨头在2012年春天上市，分析人士开始质疑该公司是否为智能手机和平板电脑的激增做了充足的准备，而投资者对其股票似乎也不那么热心了。毕竟上市时，Facebook才刚开始在用户的移动新闻推送内容中加入广告。