Ryan Orbuch, 16 years old, rolled a suitcase to the front door of his family’s house in Boulder, Colo., on a Friday morning a year ago. He was headed for the bus stop, then the airport, then Texas.
一年前的某个星期五早晨，家住科罗拉多州博尔德市的16岁少年赖恩·欧布奇(Ryan Orbuch)拖着行李箱来到了家的大门口，打算从这里前往公车站，再搭车去机场，最后去到德克萨斯州。
“I’m going,” he told his mother. “You can’t stop me.”
“我非去不可，”他对他母亲说，“你拦不住我的。”
Stacey Stern, his mother, wondered if he was right. “I briefly thought: Do I have him arrested at the gate?”
而他的母亲斯黛西·斯特恩(Stacey Stern)女士此刻则忍不住想他说的是不是真的。“我脑海里闪过一个念头：要不要报警把他在这门口抓起来？”
But the truth was, she felt conflicted. Should she stop her son from going on his first business trip?
然而事实却是，她觉得非常矛盾，到底应不应该阻止她儿子进行他人生的第一趟商务之旅呢？
Ryan was headed to South by Southwest Interactive, the technology conference in Austin. There, he planned to talk up an app that he and a friend had built. Called Finish, it aimed to help people stop procrastinating, and was just off its high in the No. 1 spot in the productivity category in the Apple App store. Ryan was also eager to go because, as he put it: “There were really dope people, and I really like smart-people density.”
赖恩要去的地方是“西南偏南互动艺术节” （South by Southwest Interactive, 简称SXSW），一个在奥斯汀举办的科技交流大会。赖恩计划在那里推广他和小伙伴设计的一款名为“Finish”的应用软件，这款应用旨在帮助人们戒掉拖延症，刚从苹果应用商店里“工作效率”那一栏的榜首跌落下来。此外，赖恩想去参加这次大会还有一个理由，那就是如他所说：“有些人真是浑浑噩噩，而我喜欢呆在聪明人扎堆的地方。”
Ms. Stern loved her son’s passion, but told him that he could go to Austin only if he finished the schoolwork he’d neglected while building the app. But Ryan didn’t comply, and, like battle-weary parents everywhere, she let him go anyway.
斯特恩太太对她儿子的激情表示赞赏，但是同时也告诉他，除非他把自己在设计应用期间拉下的功课补上，否则她不会让他去到奥斯汀；可是赖恩并不买账；而和众多疲于争吵的家长一样，斯特恩太太终究还是让他去了。
Ryan is now 17, a senior at Boulder High. He is among the many entrepreneurially minded, technologically skilled teenagers who are striving to do serious business. Their work is enabled by low-cost or free tools to make apps or to design games, and they are encouraged by tech companies and grown-ups in the field who urge them, sometimes with financial support, to accelerate their transition into “the real world.” This surge in youthful innovation and entrepreneurship looks “unprecedented,” said Gary Becker, a University of Chicago economist and a Nobel laureate.
赖恩今年17岁，就读于博尔德高中(Boulder High)的毕业班。现在有很多少年跟赖恩一样，他们拥有创业思维、懂科技，并努力想鼓捣出点严肃的生意。现在，他们只需借助价格便宜甚至免费的工具就能设计出应用程序或是电子游戏，且他们的工作还受到了科技公司以及该领域的大人物的鼓励，甚至提供财务支持，加速他们向“现实世界” 的过渡。对此，任教于芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的经济学家兼诺贝尔奖得主加里·贝克尔(Gary Becker)教授表示，年轻人创新和创业的风潮是“前所未有”的。
Dr. Becker is assessing this subject from a particularly intimate vantage point. His grandson, Louis Harboe, 18, is a friend of Ryan’s, a technological teenager who makes Ryan look like a late bloomer. Louis, pronounced Louie, got his first freelance gig at the age of 12, designing the interface for an iPhone game. At 16, Louis, who lives with his parents in Chicago, took a summer design internship at Square, an online and mobile payment company in San Francisco, earning $1,000 a week plus a $1,000 housing stipend.
关于这个话题，贝克尔博士有着尤为密切而优越的观察点，因为他的孙子——现年18岁的路易·哈尔博(Louis Harboe)正是赖恩的朋友，并且也是一个对科技很在行的少年；跟他比起来，赖恩简直可说是大器晚成。在12岁的时候，路易就为一个iPhone游戏独立开发了界面，那也是他承接的第一个兼职工作。16岁时，路易参加了旧金山在线及移动支付公司Square的暑假设计项目实习，他当时的周薪达到了1000美元，外加1000美元的住房补贴（路易和他的父母住在芝加哥）。
Ryan and Louis, who met online in the informal network of young developers, are hanging out this weekend in Austin at South by Southwest. They are also waiting to hear from the colleges to which they applied last fall — part of the parallel universe they also live in, the traditional one with grades and SATs and teenage responsibilities. But unlike their peers for whom college is the singular focus, they have pondered whether to go at all. It’s a good kind of problem, the kind faced by great high-school athletes or child actors who can try going pro, along with all the risk that entails.
赖恩和路易是通过这些年轻开发者的非正式社交网络在网上认识的；这个周末，他们还要一起去奥斯汀参加西南偏南大会，同时等候他们去年秋天提交的大学申请的回音；对他们来说，后者可以说是同时生活其中的平行宇宙的一部分——那个充满了成绩、SAT和青少年责任的传统世界。不过，和那些把上大学视作人生重头戏的同龄人来说，这两个少年考虑的却是要不要去念大学。和优秀的高中运动员和童星一样，这对他们来说是一个很现实的问题：要不要干脆走上职业道路，并且承担随后可能遇到的各种风险。
Dr. Becker, who studies microeconomics and education, has been telling his grandson: “Go to college. Go to college.” College, he says, is the clear step to economic success. “The evidence is overwhelming.”
贝克尔博士研究的方向是微观经济和教育，他一直告诉他的孙子：“去上大学。去上大学。”他说，上大学是通往人生经济成功的必经之路，“相关的证据简直多到不可胜数。”
But the “do it now” idea, evangelized on a digital pulpit, can feel more immediate than academic empiricism. “College is not a prerequisite,” said Jess Teutonico, who runs TEDxTeen, a version of the TED talks and conferences for youth, where Ryan spoke a few weeks ago. “These kids are motivated to take over the world,” she said. “They need it fast. They need it now.”
不过，和这种学术领域的经验主义比起来，通过数字时代的神坛传播的“活在当下”的想法似乎更为有说服力。“上大学并不是先决条件，”TEDxTeen——青少年版TED演讲的负责人杰斯·特托尼科(Jess Teutonico)说。赖恩也在几个星期前刚在那里发表了演说。“这些小孩都有很大的企图心，想要接管这个世界，并且想要尽快，最好现在就要，”她说。
The college-or-not debate neglects other questions that high school students like Ryan and Louis and their families are wrestling with now: Go to class or on a business trip? Do grades still matter? What do you do with $20,000 when you’re 15? And when the money rolls in, what happens to parental control?
不过，这种“要不要上大学”的讨论却忽略了像赖恩和路易这样的高中生及他们的家庭正在面临的其他问题，那就是：去上学还是去出差？成绩到底还重要吗？在15岁就赚到两万美金该怎么花？以及，如果你现在就开始赚大钱，父母该怎么管你？
“Things used to be linear. You went to a good school and you got a good job, and that was the societally acceptable thing to do,” said Ms. Stern, Ryan’s mother, who was a straight-A student and is a graduate of Duke University.
“过去，年轻人的生活是线型的：上一所好的大学，然后找一份体面的工作，这就是普遍为社会所接受的情况，”赖恩的妈妈斯坦恩女士说；她自己就曾是一名全A学生，毕业于杜克大学(Duke University)。
Now, she said, “there is no rule book.”
而现在，她说：“这个世界已经没有通行的准则了。”
Productive Procrastination
富有成效的拖延
Ryan and his business partner, Michael Hansen, who is 17, met in seventh grade. They each had a pet lizard and liked computers. They were nerdy, but not nerds, and they were complementary: Michael is precise and, like his close-cropped hair, not flashy. In the partnership, he’s the programmer. Ryan is high-energy; he talks in veritable tweets, bursts of slick, hypercasual quips laced with start-up vernacular. (South by Southwest is “South By.” Of the author John Green, he says, “Everyone my age loves him, which is really interesting from a teen sociology product development perspective.”)
赖恩和他的生意伙伴——17岁的迈克尔·汉森(Michael Hansen)是在七年级认识的。他们都养了一只蜥蜴做宠物，还都喜欢玩电脑。他们学习很好，但不是书呆子，并且两人性格互补：迈克尔追求精准，就像他剪得短短的头发一样深藏不露。在这段合作关系里，他的角色是程序员。而赖恩活力四射，语速很快，嘴里时不时蹦出一些随意但又有趣的俏皮话，还充满了他们这些新兴创业家的行话（譬如“西南偏南”在他嘴里就是“偏南”；而关于作家约翰·格林[John Green]，他说：“我的每个同龄人都爱死他了；从青少年群体生态学产品开发的角度来看，这真是个有趣的现象。”）。
But Michael and Ryan shared a goal: “Since middle school,” Michael said, “we wanted to make an app.”
不过，迈克尔和赖恩拥有一个共同的目标，那就是“从初中起，我们就想制作一个app，”迈克尔说。
App making, while hardly child’s play, has become easier. It’s not necessary to know intensive programming language to make a simple one. Apple, as well as other phone makers and tech companies, provide shortcuts, like templates that let you drop in images or automate payment methods. But making a complex app is still a big deal, requiring programming expertise and design and business savvy. And competition is fierce, with a million apps in the iPhone store alone.
制作app并非儿戏，但是这事儿现在已经变得容易多了，不需要懂很多程序语言就能做出一个简单的app，而苹果及其他很多手机制造商和科技公司也都为制作app提供了捷径，譬如有直接往里填充图片或自动支付方式的模板。不过，即便如此，制作一个复杂的app还是一个相当了不起的成就，它需要专业的编程技巧，还要对设计和商业运作有相当的了解。这一行的竞争也很激烈，光是iPhone的app商店里就有上百万款产品了。
Ryan was studying for his 10th-grade finals in December 2011 when he thought: I wish there was something that would help me stop procrastinating. So, he procrastinated by sketching a picture of a to-do-list app that would let you clump tasks into three time frames: short term, medium term and long. The idea was to help people prioritize and not feel overwhelmed.
2011年12月，赖恩还在为十年级的期末考试复习，他当时想：“真希望有什么东西能让我不再拖延了。”于是，为了继续拖延，他画了一张app的草图，让人们可以把任务分解成三个时间框，分别是短期、中期和长期，旨在帮助他们分清事情的轻重缓急，从而不会感到无所适从。
He texted the crude picture to Michael. By that March, when both were 15, “we had our first mock-up,” Ryan said. By June, they were at it hours every day, refining the design, with Michael writing thousands of lines of code using Objective-C, a computer language that he learned from online tutorials. Ryan refined the design and networked. One night that summer, they went to an informal meeting of Boulder entrepreneurs, who asked, mostly in jest: “What’s your favorite kind of beer?” They drank water.
随后，他把这张草图发给了迈克尔。在那年3月，他们都年满15岁时，“我们做出了第一个实物模型，”赖恩说。到了那年6月，他们已经每天都花上数小时的时间来完善设计；迈克尔用他从网上教程学到的C语言撰写了上千行的代码，而赖恩也对设计做了一些改进，并广泛搭建人脉。那个暑假的一天晚上，他们参加了博尔德市一个创业者的非正式会议。其中一些人冲他们半开玩笑地问：“你们喜欢喝什么啤酒？”他们只喝了白水。
On Jan. 15, 2013, the day before the launch of the app, Ryan pulled his first all-nighter, sending publicity notes to TechCrunch, Forbes and other media outlets. Within days the app, priced at 99 cents, was No. 1, en route to having 50,000 paid downloads. After Apple took its 30 percent, the boys split about $30,000.
2013年1月15日，在他们的app发布的前夜，赖恩第一次熬了个通宵，忙着向TechCrunch、福布斯(Forbes)和其他媒体发送宣传材料。之后不过几天的时间里，这款售价99美分的app的下载量就直奔五万，排名同类型第一。苹果公司从收入中抽取了30%，两个男生则拿到了剩下的约3万美金。
Ryan’s dedication came at a cost to his grades. The previous spring, he was almost an all-A student; the fall before the launching, busy with business, he earned four Bs and two Cs. At school, he’d break the no-cellphone rule when he saw an incoming call from the 415 or the 408 area code. Silicon Valley, and potential business, calling.
然而，赖恩对工作的投入还是影响到了他的成绩。去年春，他还是一个几乎门门课拿A的学生，而到了秋季，在推出app前夕，他因为忙于工作而得了四个“B”和两个“C”。在学校，假如赖恩看到一个区号是415或408的来电，他会不惜违反校规而接听，因为这两个区号来自硅谷，也就意味着潜在的生意对象。
Maybe he was making up for lost time. He was 16, and, at least when compared with Louis Harboe, he was playing catch-up.
或许，他是在追赶失去的时间。那时赖恩16岁，不过和路易·哈尔博比起来，他的确是个后起之秀。
First Job at Age 12
12岁时的人生第一份工作
As a child, Louis loved drawing, and at age 10, he got into Photoshop. He made a portfolio of designs, like icons to use in place of computer-program icons on your desktop; he shared them on his website and on Twitter, seeking feedback from designers and developers.
还是孩童的时候，路易就喜欢画画；10岁他迷上了Photoshop。他为自己的设计制作了一份推广档案，譬如用来替代电脑桌面上那些普通电脑程序图标的标志，还把这些设计分享到自己的网站和推特上，从设计师和开发人员那里寻求反馈。
He didn’t reveal his age; his online profile picture was a smiley face. “You don’t want to tell anyone you’re 11,” he said, “because no one will hire you.”
不过，他并没有在网上透露自己的年纪，而网上的头像也只是一张笑脸。“不要告诉别人你才11岁，否则就没人请你干活了。”他说。
His first job was to design the look of a puzzle game. It took a week of work. The game maker asked Louis his fee. But he was 12. He had no idea. “Um...,” Louis remembers stalling. “$150?”
路易接的第一单工作是为一个智力游戏设计界面，这花了他一个星期的时间。游戏制造商向路易询问报价，可他那时才12岁，对钱毫无概念。“呃……”路易还记得自己当时吞吞吐吐地说，“150美元？”
“He was like: How about a little more because I really like you?” Louis got $350.
“对方回答说：我再多给你点怎么样，我还挺喜欢你这人的。”所以最后，路易拿到了350美元。
Louis got a handful of such gigs, and email inquiries for full-time jobs, including interest from Mozilla and Spotify when he was 14. The next year, an email came from an Apple talent scout. This time, Louis conceded his age and received this response: “You’re the second high schooler I’ve emailed. What are they teaching you in high school these days?”
后来，路易又接了很多这样零散的活儿，还不断接到公司发来的邮件询问他是否愿意做全职的工作，其中包括Mozilla和Spotify这两家知名创业公司，而他当时年仅14岁。第二年，他又接到一个苹果公司的猎头发来的邮件。这一次，路易向对方坦白了自己的年龄，而猎头回复说：“你是我联系上的第二个高中生，现在的高中都在教你们什么？”
In the summer after 10th grade, he was hired by Square, the payment company; he says he heard the predictable “child labor law jokes.” Lindsay Wiese, a Square spokeswoman, said that its internship program focuses on “talent, not age,” and that it looks for leaders “like Louis” who provide a diversity of perspective. Young people understand young consumers.
十年级的那个暑假，路易开始受雇于移动支付公司Square。他说他经常遇到人们拿他的年龄和“童工法”开玩笑，不过这也是他的意料之中。Square公司的发言人琳赛·维斯(Lindsay Wiese)女士表示，他们招募实习生看重的是“才能，而不是年纪”，而他们正需要“像路易一样的”领导者来为公司提供多样化的视角，只有年轻人才真正理解年轻消费者。
For Louis, the money has added up, around $35,000 in all, most of it spent on computers and accessories, some on business trips and some on eating out. Not on the college fund.
路易的收入加起来已经有3.5万美元；他把这些钱大部分花在了电脑和配件上，还有些用于出差和在外吃饭，但是并没有存起来用做大学的学费。
Along with his own money, he came back from San Francisco with what his father, Frederik Harboe, lovingly describes as a touch of attitude. Louis, his dad said, developed a taste for high-end coffees, and remarked on the lack of sophistication of his father’s “dinner platings” — the arrangement of food on the plate. At Square, there was free Odwalla orange juice. His family drank Tropicana. He came home after the first summer asking why his parents weren’t matching Silicon Valley’s breakfast-drink brands, recalled his mother, Catherine Becker, who manages a clothing store. “Because Odwalla fresh-squeezed is very expensive!” she told her son.
从旧金山回家后，路易除了带回自己赚的钱，用他父亲弗雷德里克·哈尔博(Frederik Harboe)的话说，还带回了一些“做派”。他父亲说，路易喜欢上了高档咖啡，还对爸爸晚餐 “摆盘”不够有档次提出了质疑。在Square公司，员工可以免费畅饮Odwalla橙汁，而路易家里常喝的却是“纯果乐”（Tropicana，一个大众果汁品牌）。路易的母亲凯瑟琳·贝克尔(Catherine Becker)回忆说，路易从第一个暑期实习回来以后，问他的父母为什么家里喝的早餐饮料和硅谷公司不是同样的品牌。“因为Odwalla鲜榨饮料很贵啊！”经营服装店的凯瑟琳回答她的儿子。
In San Francisco, Louis was seeing techies who had skipped college, or dropped out, and were making it big in real life. Back in Chicago, his dad suggested that Louis apply to Carnegie Mellon University, and recalled his son saying, “You want me to go where — to Pittsburgh?”
在旧金山，路易见到了众多没有上过大学，或是从大学辍学的技术人才在生活中做着了不起的工作。回到芝加哥后，他的父亲建议路易申请卡内基梅隆大学(Carnegie Mellon University)，他还记得他儿子的回答是：“你想让我去哪儿——去匹兹堡？！”
Last June, Louis attended the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco. A year earlier, Apple lowered its minimum age of admission to the annual conference to 13 from 18, owing to interest from young people. Louis was one of around 150 students to win a free ticket — ordinarily costing around $1,600 — to attend; he had previously collaborated on two apps, Mathmaster and iChalkboard.
去年6月，路易参加了旧金山举行的苹果公司全球开发人员大会(Apple Worldwide Developers Conference)。那之前的一年，也是基于年轻人对这个领域的兴趣，苹果公司刚把它的年会最低准入年龄从18岁降到了13岁，而路易也是150来个获得免费赠票的学生之一；要知道，这些门票正常情况下的售价高达1600美元。在此之前，路易已经参与了两款app的开发，分别是“数学大师”(Mathmaster)和“我的黑板”(iChalkboard)。
Other student winners, Apple said, have included Puck Meerburg, now 14, from the Netherlands, who has released 10 apps. He gave a TEDx talk at age 11. Lenny Khazan, 15, a ninth grader in Woodmere, N.Y., who started basic programming in fourth grade, has a handful of apps; he says he collaborates with teenagers around the world, including one in Singapore and another in Ohio. Another scholarship winner in 2013 was Larissa Laich, now 18, from Germany, who Apple said has six published apps.
据苹果公司透露，其他赠票的获得者包括来自荷兰的14岁少年帕克·米尔博格(Puck Meerburg)，他已经推出了10个app，并在11岁的时候发表了一场TED演讲。此外，还有在纽约市伍德米尔(Woodmere)高中读九年级的15岁少年伦尼·卡赞(Lenny Khazan)，他从四年级就开始了基础的编程，并且已经推出了一系列app；他说，他还在和世界各地的少年开展合作，包括一个新加坡和一个俄亥俄州的年轻人。还有一个2013年的奖学金得主，名叫做拉里萨·莱赫(Larissa Laich)，今年18岁，来自德国；苹果公司说她已经发布了六款app。
Ryan attended the conference, too, and he and Louis shared a room at the Best Western to save money. This was their first meeting in person, and Louis watched Ryan with something like awe. “Every day he had some meeting with some Apple exec to go to, or he’d say, ‘I’ve got to go to this Bloomberg thing,’ ” Louis said. “He’s incredible at networking.”
赖恩也参加了这次大会，为了省钱，他和路易在贝斯特韦斯特酒店(Best Western)同住一个房间，这也是他们第一次在生活中碰面。在路易看来，赖恩简直就像是神一般的人物：“他好像每天都要和苹果公司的某个执行官会面，要么就说：‘我要去参与彭博社的这件事情，’他简直是左右逢源啊。”路易说。
Ryan kept his conference admission badge, which shows that he is an award winner. “It was like gold,” Ryan said. “You can get a meeting with anyone with one of those,” he paused. “But you can’t get into the over-21 parties.”
至于他的大会准入徽章，赖恩也保存了下来，以显示自己是奖项得主。“这就像一块金牌，”赖恩说，“有了它，你就能和任何人见面。”不过他顿了一下又说：“除了那些21岁以上才能去的派对。”
The Enablers
少年们的助力
“I love Ryan’s energy!” Danielle Strachman said. “He embodies the go-getter.”
“我很喜欢赖恩活力四射的样子！”丹妮尔·史卓克曼说，“他就是有志青年的代表。”
Ms. Strachman is the program director of the Thiel Fellowship, which annually awards $100,000 each to 20 young people to pursue their innovations or businesses. The first year, there were 400 applicants, and this year there are around 550. Among them was Ryan, who recently learned that he is a semifinalist. The winners will be announced in June.
史卓克曼是“泰尔奖学金”(Thiel Fellowship)的项目主管；该奖学金每年向20位年轻人提供每人10万美金的资助，以鼓励他们追求自己的创意或事业。该奖学金在第一年共有400位申请者，今年已经提高到了约550位，赖恩也是其中的一员，并且他于最近得知自己已经进入了半决选的名单，而最后的得主将于6月宣布。
Even over the phone, Ryan impressed Ms. Strachman so much that she invited him to do an introductory talk at Thiel’s fourth “Under 20 Summit,” held last November in New York. There were 350 attendees, from ages 9 to 19 — double the attendance from a year ago.
即便只是通过电话交谈，赖恩也给史卓克曼女士留下了深刻的印象，她甚至还邀请他参加了去年11月在纽约举行的泰尔奖学金第四届“20岁以下峰会”(Under 20 Summit)，并作自我介绍演讲。那场峰会共有350人参加，年龄跨度从9岁到19岁，人数是前一年的两倍。
Team Thiel doesn’t say that college is bad for everyone, but rather, that having a degree doesn’t insulate people from economic tumult. Young people with talent and ideas should “strike while the iron is hot,” as Ms. Strachman put it.
在泰尔奖学金的项目成员看来，上大学并非对每个人来说都不可取，只是必须承认，拥有大学学位并不能使你免遭经济动荡的影响。那些有才华又有想法的年轻人应该“趁热打铁”， 史卓克曼女士说。
Or, as Jonathan Cain, 32, president of the Thiel Foundation, which oversees the fellowship, described the situation: “The safe career track is totally broken.” Even lawyers are laid off, he said, and janitors have Ph.D.’s. Young people “need a greater sense of urgency than in the past,” he said, while “college has an infantilizing effect; it’s an extension of adolescence.” He graduated from Yale, but said it didn’t dawn on him that there were other options; Ms. Strachman graduated from Simmons College in Boston.
又或者，用泰尔基金会(Thiel Foundation)现年32岁的主席乔纳森·凯恩(Jonathan Cain)的说法：“那种稳定的职业道路已经完全被打破了，”即便律师也可能失业，看门人还可能有博士学位。年轻人“需要一种比过去更大的紧迫感”，而“大学则有一种让人幼儿化的作用，其实就是青春期的延伸，”他说。乔纳森本人毕业于耶鲁大学，但他表示自己当年并没有意识到人生除了大学还有别的选择。史卓克曼女士则毕业于波士顿的西蒙斯学院(Simmons College)。
Other programs are cropping up to support college alternatives. Enstitute, a nonprofit that puts 18- to 24-year-olds in company apprenticeships, placed 11 interns in its first year, 2011, and will place 500 this year. A co-founder, Kane Sarhan, said that 20 percent of interns, making $25,000 a year, come directly from high school. But he also encourages college for many people, saying it’s the rare teenager who is ready for the “work, motivation and time” that it takes to go directly into the real world.
此外，其他一些类似项目也在纷纷涌现，支持年轻人做出上大学以外的选择，譬如Enstitute这个非营利机构就旨在帮助18至24岁的年轻人进入公司实习；在其推出的第一年，也就是2011年，它安置了11名实习生，而今年则准备安置500名。该机构的联合创始人凯恩·萨汗(Kane Sarhan)表示，他们20%的实习生都是直接从高中选拔的，他们每年可以赚到2.5万美元。但是，他还是鼓励大多数人都去念大学，因为只有那些在“努力程度、积极性和时间”上都做好了充足准备的年轻人才能直接踏入真实的世界，而这样的青年少之又少。
In another sign of the trend, some of the biggest tech companies, including Facebook, eBay and Microsoft, are sponsors for “HSHacks,” a programming talent contest this weekend that signed up 800 students aged 13 to 18. The event was organized by Shrav Mehta, 17, a high school senior. The event’s tagline is “Welcome to the Big Leagues.”
作为这股风潮的另一个表征，一些世界上最大的科技公司，如Facebook、eBay和微软赞助的HSHacks编程比赛，即将在这个周末举行。这个比赛共有800名学生参加，年龄从13岁到18岁不等，活动组织者是17岁的高中毕业生，名叫希拉芙·梅塔(Shrav Mehta)，她打出的口号是“欢迎来到大联盟”。
Economists who study education largely agree that college matters greatly to future financial gain. In general, college graduates find better jobs and earn higher wages than those with only a high school degree, said Sandy Baum, an education scholar at George Washington University, though she acknowledged the economic uncertainty for many graduates. “But that’s so much more true of people who did not go to college,” she said, and to suggest otherwise is “misleading a lot of people.”
涉足教育的经济学家大都认为，上大学对今后人生的财政收入非常重要。乔治华盛顿大学(George Washington University)的教育学家珊迪·鲍姆(Sandy Baum)表示，总体来说，大学毕业生找的工作都比高中毕业生好，工资也更高；但她承认，很多人大学毕业以后还是可能面临经济困境，“但是对那些没有上过大学的人来说，这种可能性更高，”她说，并表示如果有人说情况不是这样就是在“对很多人进行误导。”
Dan Finnigan, chief executive of Jobvite, which helps tech companies find talent, agreed, adding that a tech sensation might not last. “You may be hot for now, but we live in a fashionable society,” he said. When the economy softens, or a start-up or two fails, “it’s going to catch up to that person.”
帮助科技公司搜罗人才的Jobvite招聘公司首席执行官丹·芬尼根(Dan Finnigan)也同意这一看法，并补充说，科技的风潮未必会持续多久。“或许你现在炙手可热，但是我们的社会也非常善变，”他说。假如经济疲软，或者有那么一两家新兴公司失败，“那个人就要遭殃。”
Silicon Valley, which has long valued young consumers as early adopters of technology, seems particularly drawn these days to the wisdom of young creators and entrepreneurs. Hunter Walk, a partner in an investment firm called Homebrew, met with Ryan Orbuch earlier this year, when the teenager asked for his insights into Finish.
与此相对的是，硅谷一直以来都非常重视年轻消费者，视他们为最早的科技采用者，并且硅谷近来也对年轻的创作者和企业家的智慧似乎特别有兴趣。Homebrew投资公司合伙人亨特·沃克(Hunter Walk)就在今年早些时候会见了赖恩·欧布奇，因为赖恩当时向他征询他对Finish这款app的意见。
“It wasn’t like he showed up and I said, ‘You’re just a kid,’ ” said Mr. Walk, who knew Ryan’s age. The investor says he benefits from hearing the insights of young people. “The age gap collapses pretty quickly when you’re talking product and design,” he said.
“当他出现在我面前，我并不会说：‘你还只是个小屁孩嘛，’”沃克先生说，因为他之前已经知道了赖恩的年纪。这位投资者称，他能从年轻人的想法里学到不少东西。“一旦论及产品和设计，年龄差距就会瞬间消失。”
Mr. Walk conceded that there could be a risk of making too much of early tech success. “You start to ask the same questions you do about child stars in Hollywood,” he said. “Did they peak at 17, and never have another great app?”
不过，沃克先生也承认，太早取得技术上的成功也可能有它自己的风险。“人们会问一些和好莱坞童星一样的问题，”他说，“譬如他们会不会在17岁就实现了人生的巅峰，从此再也不能推出更好的作品？”
Waiting for the Future
等待未来
“I’m scared that my parents were right when they wanted me to focus completely on school, but I deeply believe I’ve done the right thing.”
“我的父母希望我全心全意地投入在校学习，而我很担心他们是对的，但我在内心深处觉得自己做的决定是对的。”
Ryan wrote that as part of his Thiel Fellowship application, in answer to a question about important truths in his life. He also wrote 11 college applications, including one to Stanford, his dream school. His grades, however, had dropped further; last fall, he received two Ds.
这是赖恩在他的泰尔奖学金申请书中写下的一句话，作为关于他人生重大真相的一个问题的回答。此外，他还提交了11所大学的入学申请，包括他的梦中学校斯坦福。只是，他的成绩在上个秋季又有下滑，甚至还得了两个“D”。
His Thiel application was for something he calls “fixschool.org,” a concept for inspiring and motivating students “in ways that were never before possible” with real-world tasks as opposed to homework.
申请泰尔奖学金在赖恩看来也是为了他的“fixschool.org”，也就是用真实世界里的任务而非家庭作业来激励学生，这个概念在以前可是“前所未有”的。
It’s not clear what he will do next; it depends, he said, on where he gets in. In the meantime, he and Michael are pushing ahead with Finish. Just last weekend, they relaunched it as a free app — but with paid add-in functions — and got more than 50,000 new downloads in just 48 hours.
赖恩下一步会做什么还不得而知。他说，这取决于他到底会被哪儿录取。不过与此同时，他和迈克尔也在继续推动“Finish”的工作。就在上个周末，他们还把这款app作为免费程序重新发布，只不过在里面加上了需要付费的功能，而重新推出后的这款app在48小时内就获得了五万多次的下载量。
Louis is committed to college, a view that solidified in the fall, partly after bearing witness to the experience of friends in the working world. “Their Facebook posts are all about work,” he said. “Their lives don’t seem that interesting.”
至于路易，他则在上个秋季坚定了要去读大学的决心，部分原因是因为目睹了那些职场朋友的经历。“他们在Facebook上发的内容全都跟工作有关，”他说，“他们的生活似乎不那么有趣。”
There was another reality check. Last summer, after he spent the better part of a year designing a beautiful app to show the changing tides, Apple changed the design specs and Louis had to scrap his project.
除此，现实还给了他另外一记提醒，那就是去年夏天，路易花了大半年的时间设计了一款能够显示潮汐变幻的漂亮程序，但苹果公司却改变了设计规格，整个项目因此报废。
So, last fall, he took a break from heavy design work — though he still wants it to be a big part of his life and plans to develop apps in college — and he picked up his dad’s guitar and taught himself to play. He applied to Carnegie Mellon. He also applied to Georgia Tech, without parental prompting. It wasn’t lost on his father that both schools were far from Silicon Valley.
所以，虽然他仍然希望设计成为自己生活的重要组成部分，并且打算在大学里继续开发app，路易还是从去年秋季就让自己从沉重的设计工作中暂时解放了出来，翻出了他老爹的吉他开始自学弹琴。即便没有父母的耳提面命，他还是申请了卡内基梅隆大学(Carnegie Mellon)和佐治亚理工学院(Georgia Institute of Technology)。当然，他的父亲也注意到，这两所大学都离硅谷甚远。
Louis said he wants “the full college experience.” It’s almost as if he’s been given the gift of seeing an alternate version of his life — that of a passionate developer who leaps into the tech fray — and realizes that the real world is a lot of work.
路易说，他想要一次“完整的大学经历”，仿佛他曾经有机会得见自己生活的另一个版本——那就是作为一个激情满满的开发人员跳入科技的藩篱，从而意识到真实的世界其实充满了艰辛。
“I want to have fun,” he said. “I still feel like a kid — kind of.”
“我还想玩，”他说，“我觉得自己还像个小孩——至少还有那么一点。”