When Wm Patrick Cranley and his family moved to Shanghai in 1997, they fell in love with the city’s early 20th-century buildings. Their quest for stories about the long-neglected beauties led them to establish an informal study group, Historic Shanghai. Since then, Mr. Cranley and his wife, Tina Kanagaratnam (both fluent Mandarin speakers), have become experts in Shanghai’s Art Deco era, which lasted from the post-World War I building boom in the 1920s through the mid-1940s. They lead walking tours, give lectures and are organizing this year’s World Congress of Art Deco, held in Shanghai Nov. 1 to 6.
1997年，威廉·帕特里克·克兰利(Wm Patrick Cranley)和家人搬到上海后，爱上了这座城市的20世纪早期建筑。他们特别想了解这些被长期忽视的美丽建筑背后的故事，所以建立了一个非正式研究小组，名叫“上海旧踪”(Historic Shanghai)。从那以后，克兰利和妻子蒂娜·卡纳加拉纳姆（Tina Kanagaratnam，他们俩都能讲流利的中文）成了上海装饰艺术时代（从20世纪20年代“一战”结束后到40年代中期的建设热潮）的专家。他们组织徒步旅游，举办讲座，从11月1日至6日在上海组织今年的世界装饰艺术大会(World Congress of Art Deco)。
Shanghai is “by far” the most well-preserved major city in China, according to Mr. Cranley, 55. Since many of its notable Art Deco-era structures were built as hotels, apartment buildings and private homes, they have mostly avoided the wrecking ball.
55岁的克兰利说，上海是“迄今为止”中国保存得最好的大城市。它的那些著名的装饰艺术建筑当时是作为酒店、公寓大楼和私人住宅建起来的，大多都没有遭到拆除。
The range of styles is also noteworthy, Mr. Cranley said, because of the many international architects who worked in 1930s Shanghai alongside Chinese architects who had studied abroad. Both groups had encountered Art Deco in the West and discovered that it perfectly suited the city, with its infatuation with progress, innovation and modernity.
克兰利说，上海的装饰艺术风格十分多样化，因为在20世纪30年代，上海有很多国外建筑师和留过学的中国建筑师一起工作。他们都在西方接触过装饰艺术，发现它十分适合这座醉心于发展、创新和现代化的城市。
Here are edited excerpts from a conversation with Mr. Cranley.
下面是经过编辑浓缩的克兰利访谈记录。
Q. What’s unique about Art Deco in Shanghai?
问：上海装饰艺术的独特之处是什么？
A. It often includes traditional Chinese features like upturned eaves and lattice windows. During the early 20th century, the Chinese sought to forge a new national identity, both modern and Chinese, and that’s what really defines Chinese Art Deco.
答：它往往包括中国传统元素，比如飞檐和花格窗。在20世纪初，中国人想努力塑造一种新的既现代又有中国特色的民族身份，那是中国装饰艺术的真正特点。
Where should travelers stay in Shanghai and what should they do if they want to revisit the Art Deco era?
问：来上海的游客如果想重温装饰艺术时代，他们应该住在哪里，做些什么？
Shanghai’s 21st-century economic boom has meant a flurry of renovation, and not all of it sympathetic. Two good options are the Fairmont Peace Hotel and the Pei Mansion.
答：21世纪上海的经济繁荣带来了疯狂更新，但并不是所有的都能引人共鸣。和平饭店和贝轩大公馆是两个不错的选择。
Shanghai is a great walking city: safe, reasonably compact and packed with cafes. The former French Concession has the highest concentration of Art Deco architecture. Join one of Historic Shanghai’s guided tours, or get a copy of “Still More Shanghai Walks,” by Tess Johnston.
上海非常适合徒步游览，因为它安全，城市布局比较紧凑，到处都是咖啡馆。前法租界的装饰艺术建筑最为集中。你可以参加上海旧踪组织的旅游团，或者买一本特丝·约翰斯顿(Tess Johnston)的《上海六处漫步点之三》(Still More Shanghai Walks)。
Your favorite neighborhood for architecture?
问：你最喜欢哪个地方的建筑？
How do you pick just one? The 1930s Shanghai Municipal Government buildings in the Jiangwan area of Yangpu District are excellent examples of the Ming Revival subgenre of Chinese Art Deco. The western part of the French Concession has dozens of Art Deco apartment buildings, each with its own charm and interesting history. And of course the Bund is happy hunting grounds for examples of commercial buildings with that unmistakable Art Deco rhythm.
答：只能选一个可怎么选呢？20世纪30年代杨浦区江湾的上海市政府大楼是中国装饰艺术中明代复兴风格支系的典型代表。前法租界西部有几十座装饰艺术公寓大楼，每一座都有自己的魅力和有趣的历史。当然，外滩是欣赏具有明确装饰艺术风格的商业大楼的乐园。
What is your favorite recent building in Shanghai and why?
问：你最喜欢上海新建的哪个建筑？为什么？
While my wife, Tina, likes the Jin Mao Tower for its combination of Chinese pagoda architecture and Art Deco skyscraper design, I would never choose a recent building over an exquisite historic design. That said, I am partial to the new Shanghai Tower — not because it is the second-tallest building in the world, but because its simple curves make a massive structure approachable, and because it incorporates several eco-friendly innovations.
答：我妻子蒂娜喜欢金茂大厦，因为它将中国的宝塔建筑风格和装饰艺术摩天大楼设计结合了起来。不过，我永远也不会觉得哪座近代建筑能胜过精致的历史设计。不过，我比较喜欢上海中心大厦，不是因为它是世界第二高楼，而是因为它简单的曲线让这座庞大的建筑显得易于接近，而且它融入了几项利于生态的创新。
Do you see any parallels between Shanghai’s go-go Art Deco era and today?
问：你觉得上海活跃的装饰艺术时代和现在有什么相通之处吗？
Sure. There was a lot of money sloshing around in Shanghai in the 1930s, just as there is today. And now architects are searching for a new design vocabulary to express the spirit of the times, as they did back in the Art Deco period. The difference is, in those days, they succeeded.
答：当然有。在20世纪30年代，大量金钱涌入上海，跟现在一样。如今，建筑师们在寻找新的设计语汇，以表达这个时代的精神，装饰艺术时代也是如此。不同之处在于，那时候，他们成功了。