More than 35 years after the violinist Isaac Stern made a groundbreaking visit to China, his legacy there lives on.
距离小提琴家艾萨克·斯特恩(Isaac Stern)具有开拓性的中国之旅已经过去逾35年了，但他的影响力依然留存在这里。
The inaugural Shanghai Isaac Stern International Violin Competition concluded on Friday after nearly three weeks of intensive performances by 24 young violinists from around the world. Mayu Kishima of Japan was awarded first place, taking home the grand prize of $100,000, the largest single award for an international violin competition.
在24位来自世界各地的青年小提琴家进行了将近三个星期的密集表演之后，首届上海艾萨克·斯特恩国际小提琴比赛于上周五落下帷幕。日本选手木岛真优(Mayu Kishima)夺得冠军，获奖金10万美元。这一金额创下了国际小提琴赛事单项奖金之最。
“We were looking for the kind of spark and commitment to music that our father would have embraced,” David Stern, co-chairman of the jury committee, said in a telephone interview from Shanghai.
“我们在寻找我们的父亲肯定乐于见到的那种对音乐的热诚和投入，”评委会联合主席大卫·斯特恩(David Stern)在上海接受电话采访时说。
That Isaac Stern, who died in 2001, now has a competition bearing his name is somewhat ironic given his aversion to such events.
现在，已于2001年去世的艾萨克·斯特恩的名字和一项比赛挂上了钩。鉴于他向来厌恶此类活动，这似乎有着某种讽刺意味。
So when the conductor Yu Long, a towering figure in classical music in China, raised the idea of holding a competition about two and a half years ago, “it was not the easiest idea for the three of us to approach,” Mr. Stern said, referring to his brother, Michael, and his sister, Shira. “Our father did everything he could to mentor young musicians in order to avoid competitions.”
因此，大卫·斯特恩说，当中国古典音乐界的杰出人物、指挥家余隆在大约两年半以前提出举办比赛的想法时，“我们仨都不太愿意接受这个主意。”他指的是自己的哥哥迈克尔(Michael)和姐姐希拉(Shira)。“为了避免参与比赛，我们的父亲总是尽其所能地辅导年轻音乐人。”
Isaac Stern’s dedication to training young musicians was perhaps most vividly captured in the 1979 documentary “From Mao to Mozart: Isaac Stern in China.” The film, which won an Academy Award for best documentary feature, chronicled Mr. Stern’s two-week trip to China for a series of concerts and master classes.
艾萨克·斯特恩对培训年轻音乐人的工作相当投入，1979年的纪录片《从毛泽东到莫扎特：艾萨克·斯特恩在中国》(From Mao to Mozart: Isaac Stern in China)极为生动地体现了这一点。这部获得了奥斯卡最佳纪录片奖的片子，详细描绘了斯特恩如何在为期两周的中国行期间穿梭于一系列音乐会和大师班之间。
That visit, which came just as China was emerging from decades of self-imposed isolation, is credited with having influenced a generation of young Chinese musicians, including Mr. Yu, who recalled sitting in the audience as a teenager during one of Mr. Stern’s performances in Shanghai.
那趟行程恰值中国逐渐摆脱几十年的自我孤立之际，被认为影响了一代年轻的中国音乐人，其中就包括余隆。他记得，自己当时还是一个少年，曾坐在观众席上欣赏斯特恩在上海的一场演出。
“During the Cultural Revolution, we didn’t have many opportunities to play Western music,” Mr. Yu, now conductor of a number of ensembles including the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra, said in a telephone interview. “Then, in that moment in 1979 when Maestro Stern came, we suddenly felt the difference in how we could understand music.”
余隆目前在多家乐团里担任指挥，其中包括上海交响乐团。“文革期间，我们没有多少演奏西方音乐的机会，”他接受电话采访时表示。“后来，等到1979年斯特恩大师来中国的时候，我们突然意识到我们对音乐的理解可以有多么大的不同。”
Since 1979, classical music in China has grown tremendously, with gleaming concert halls being built around the country and some 40 million young Chinese studying the violin or the piano.
自1979年以来，西方古典音乐在中国的发展可谓突飞猛进，全国各地建起了熠熠生辉的音乐厅，约有4000万青少年在学习小提琴或钢琴。
Still, Mr. Yu said, “The problem in China, and Asia more broadly, is that the players are more concerned about technical issues.”
不过余隆说，“在中国乃至亚洲范围内都存在演奏者过于注重技巧的问题。”
So when it came to this new project, both the Stern family and Mr. Yu agreed that they wanted to make a more comprehensive competition that would reward musicians not just for technical ability, but also for all-around dedication to music.
因此，当谈及这个新计划时，斯特恩家族和余隆一致表示，他们想要举办更看重全面素质的比赛，获奖的音乐人不仅要有高超的技能，还要对音乐全情投入。
After two years of discussions and planning, the Stern family and the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra came up with a competition structure that David Stern said his father, even with his distaste for competitions, probably would have approved. This meant including elements that were important to Isaac Stern, like chamber music and Chinese music.
经过两年的讨论和规划，斯特恩家族和上海交响乐团制定出了比赛的规程。大卫·斯特恩称，即便是他父亲那样一个讨厌比赛的人，也很有可能会对该框架表示赞同。这意味着纳入对艾萨克·斯特恩而言颇为重要的元素，比如室内乐和中国作品。
For example, contestants in the semifinal round were required to perform two concertos: “The Butterfly Lovers,” a popular Chinese concerto composed in 1959 by He Zhanhao and Chen Gang, and Mozart’s Violin Concerto No. 3 with a chamber orchestra (with original improvisation during the cadenza section). They also had to play a violin sonata, as well as the first movement of piano trio by Schubert or Brahms.
比如，选手们在半决赛中要演奏两首规定的协奏曲目：一首是颇受公众喜爱的中国作品《梁山伯与祝英台》，由何占豪和陈钢写于1959年；另一首是莫扎特的《第三小提琴协奏曲》，需与室内管弦乐队合作（华彩乐段由选手即兴发挥）。他们还必须演奏一首小提琴奏鸣曲，以及舒伯特或勃拉姆斯的钢琴三重奏的第一乐章。
The 24 contestants represented several countries, including China, France, Germany, Japan, South Korea and the United States. In addition to the prize money, Ms. Kishima will also receive performance contracts with several international symphony orchestras.
这24位选手代表着若干不同的国家，包括中国、法国、德国、日本、韩国和美国。除了奖金，木岛真优还将获得多个国际交响乐团的演出合约。
Sergei Dogadin of Russia was awarded the second prize of $50,000, and Sirena Huang of the United States took home the third prize of $25,000. The violinists Zakhar Bron of Russia and Boris Kuschnir of Austria were among the 13 who sat on the jury.
名列第二的是俄罗斯选手谢尔盖·多加金(Sergei Dogadin)，获奖金5万美元；夺得第三名的是美国选手黄凯珉(Sirena Huang)，获奖金2.5万美元。俄罗斯小提琴家扎哈尔·布朗(Zakhar Bron)和奥地利小提琴家鲍里斯·库什尼尔(Boris Kuschnir)均在13名评委之列。
The competition also presented an Isaac Stern Human Spirit Award of $10,000 each to two noncontestants: One, to Wu Taoxiang and Du Zhengquan, who founded the Einstein Orchestra, a middle-school ensemble in China, and the other to Negin Khpalwak, who directs an orchestra for women in Afghanistan, for “their outstanding contribution to our understanding of humanity through the medium of music.”
赛事还颁发了“艾萨克·斯特恩奖——人文精神奖”，表彰“对用音乐诠释人文精神有杰出贡献”的两组非参赛人士：在中国的一所中学里创办了爱因斯坦乐团的吴泰祥和杜正权，以及在阿富汗领导着一个女子乐团的涅金·帕尔瓦克(Negin Khpalwak)。奖金均为1万美元。
Most of the funding for the competition, which will be held every two years, came from corporate sponsors, according to Fedina Zhou, president of the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra. The symphony has been expanding in recent years, forging a long-term partnership with the New York Philharmonic and, in 2014, unveiling a new hall where the competition was held.
上海交响乐团团长周平介绍，这一比赛将每两年举办一次，大部分资金来自赞助商。该乐团近年来不断扩张，和纽约爱乐乐团建立了长期伙伴关系，并在2014年新建成了一座音乐厅，那里也是本次比赛的举办地。
For many musicians and music lovers in China, the competition represents further validation that China is well on its way to becoming a heavyweight player in the classical music world.
对中国的很多音乐家和音乐爱好者而言，此次比赛进一步表明，中国正在向着成为古典音乐大国这个目标迈进。
“At last the Chinese people finally have an internationally recognized competition of their own,” said Rudolph Tang, a writer and expert in Shanghai on the classical music industry in China. “It has everything that a top competition should have, like a top jury, great organization, and high prize money.”
“中国终于拥有了自己的得到国际认可的比赛，”居于上海、对中国古典音乐界颇为了解的乐评人和业内专家唐若甫说。“它有顶级赛事该有的一切，比如有顶级的评委会，组织得力，奖金也高。”
“It is like a dream come true,” he added.
“就好像美梦成真了，”他补充道。