Shanghai health officials say that a doctor has died of H7N9 bird flu, adding to concerns about a recent upturn in the disease’s spread in China.
上海市卫生部门官员说一名医生死于H7N9禽流感，增加了人们对该疾病在中国传播近期有所上升的担忧。
Dr. Zhang Xiaodong, a 31-year-old surgeon at the Shanghai Pudong New Area People’s Hospital, died on Saturday, and tests a day later showed he had contracted the H7N9 strain of avian influenza, the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Health and Family Planning said Monday.
上海市卫生和计划生育委员会周一称，上海浦东新区人民医院31岁的外科医生张晓东周六死亡，一天后的检查结果显示他感染了H7N9禽流感病毒。
Worries about bird flu have been exacerbated by the approaching Lunar New Year, which falls on Jan. 31 this year. Over the holiday period, hundreds of millions of people travel to be with their families, raising the potential of H7N9 being spread more widely among the population.
随着农历新年即将在1月31日到来，对禽流感的担心也在加剧。节日期间，数亿人将回家过年，增加了H7N9病毒更广泛地在人群中传播的可能性。
The World Health Organization said on Monday that China had reported 16 new confirmed cases of H7N9 over the previous four days including nine in Zhejiang Province, to the south of Shanghai. Zhejiang has seen 26 cases of H7N9 so far this year, the most of any Chinese region, Xinhua, the state-run news agency, reported.
世界卫生组织(The World Health Organization)周一称，中国在过去4天内已报告了16例新确认的H7N9禽流感病例，其中有9例出现在上海以南的浙江省。国家通讯社新华社报道称，今年浙江省已经发现了26例H7N9感染病例，居全国首位。
Investigators in Shanghai are now trying to determine if Dr. Zhang had contact with poultry or live birds, as in most previous H7N9 cases, or if he might have contracted the disease from a patient. While there have been a handful of family clusters of H7N9 in China, the World Health Organization said on Monday that so far “there is no evidence of sustained human-to-human transmission.”
上海的调查人员正试图确定张晓东是否曾经接触过禽类或活鸟，绝大多数H7N9感染病例有过此类接触，或者他是否从病人身上感染了禽流感。虽然中国出现过个别家庭聚集性H7N9病例，但世界卫生组织周一称，到目前为止，“还没有持续人际传播的证据。”
The Shanghai health authorities said Dr. Zhang had no direct interaction with influenza patients in the 10 days before he fell ill on Jan. 15. None of the people he was in close contact with, including hospital colleagues, has shown signs of a cough, fever or breathing problems. Likewise, patients the surgeon saw before falling ill have also shown no “abnormal circumstances,” the health commission reported.
上海市计生委称，张晓东在1月15号发病之前的10天中没有直接接触过流感病人。与他有过密切接触的人，包括医院的同事在内，均未出现咳嗽、发热等呼吸道症状。同样，在他发病前诊治过的患者中，也没有出现“异常情况”。
The surgeon had stayed with his parents, who live next to a man who raises pigeons, on Jan. 4. And the hospital where he worked is near a market where live poultry is sold. However, he denied having contact with poultry, Lu Hongzhou, the head of Shanghai’s H7N9 expert group, told the Shanghai Daily newspaper.
这位外科医生在1月4日曾住在父母家中，隔壁邻居养有鸽子。他工作的医院附近有一家菜市场，那里有活禽出售。但是，上海市H7N9专家组负责人卢洪洲对《上海日报》说，张晓东曾否认自己接触过禽类。
Another Shanghai man, a 77-year-old farmer, also died of H7N9 on Saturday. He had a history of contract with poultry, the newspaper reported.
上海另一名77岁的农民也因感染H7N9于周六死亡。报道称，他有接触禽类的历史。
So far this year, Shanghai has had seven cases of H7N9, the health commission said. The city will close its poultry markets from the end of January until April 30 to try to reduce further transmission of the disease, Shanghai Daily said.
上海市计生委说，今年以来，上海已出现了7例H7N9感染病例。《上海日报》称，上海市将从1月底到4月30号关停禽类市场，以减少该病毒的进一步传播。