Students from Shanghai have once again outscored their peers around the rest of the world in reading, math and science, according to the newly released results of an international standardized exam.
最新公布的一次国际标准化考试的结果显示，上海学生再次打败世界其他地方的学生，在阅读、数学和科学方面居于领先地位。
The Program for International Student Assessment, or PISA, is given every three years to more than half a million 15- and 16-year-old students from 65 countries. It was conducted by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a Paris-based research group that includes the world’s major industrial powers.
国际学生评估项目（Program forInternational Student Assessment，简称PISA）每三年举办一次，接受测试的是来自65个国家的50多万名十五六岁的学生。举办者是位于巴黎的研究机构经济合作与发展组织（Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development，简称OECD），该组织囊括了世界上主要的工业强国。
When the test results were last released in 2010, Shanghai students also topped the world charts, triggering a wave of anxiety among parents, teachers and politicians in the United States. Many saw the scores as an indicator that the United States was falling behind China in educational competitiveness.
2010年，当上一次测试结果公布时，上海的学生也位居榜首，此事还引发了美国家长、教师和政治人士的担忧。很多人都认为，这样的结果表明美国的教育竞争力落在了中国之后。
The results released Tuesday, which were based on tests given in 2012, will likely renew some of those concerns. Shanghai students’ math scores put them three years ahead of their average peers from other O.E.C.D. nations. American students, on the other hand, ranked 36th, performing below the O.E.C.D. average in math, and average for reading and science. The gap between Shanghai and American students may lead more in the United States to look across the Pacific for successful education policies and practices.
周二公布的结果以2012年的测试为基础，很可能再次引发类似的担忧。上海学生的数学水平比其他OECD国家学生的平均水平领先三年。美国学生则排在第36位，数学没有达到OECD的平均水平，阅读和科学则处于平均水平。上海和美国学生之间既然存在这样的差距，可能会促使更多美国人跨越太平洋来寻求成功的教育政策和方法。
It has also raised old questions about the reliability of the test in its assessment of China. One of the main criticisms is that in China the PISA test focuses on Shanghai, a city with a per capita gross domestic product that is double the national average and that has one of the country’s highest college enrollment rates.
同时，这样的结果也让一个老问题再度浮现，即这个测试能否用来评估中国的整体情况。主要的反对意见之一是，中国的PISA测试集中在上海，而这座城市的人均国内生产总值是中国平均水平的两倍，大学入学率则位居中国之首。
Andreas Schleicher, who directs the O.E.C.D.’s international educational testing program, says Shanghai’s status should be taken into account when making comparisons. “You cannot consider the result from Shanghai representative for China,” Mr. Schleicher said. “I don’t think it would make sense to compare, for example, Shanghai to the United States. But you can compare Shanghai to Massachusetts. You can compared Shanghai with many European countries that have a similar size.”
负责OECD国际教育测试项目的安德里亚斯·施莱谢尔(Andreas Schleicher)说，作比较的时候，应该考虑上海的情况。“你不能用上海的结果来代表整个中国，”施莱谢尔说。“我不认为这类比较有什么意义，例如拿上海和美国比。但是，你可以拿上海和马萨诸塞州比，还可以拿上海和许多大小相当的欧洲国家比。”
Massachusetts participated in PISA for the first time in 2012. It ranked fourth in reading, seventh in science, and 10th in math, still trailing behind Asian academic heavyweights like Shanghai, Hong Kong and South Korea, though by a narrower margin than the United States as a whole.
马萨诸塞州在2012年首次参加PISA测试。该地区的阅读水平排名第四，科学排名第七，数学排名第十，虽然稍高于美国的整体水平，但仍落后于上海、香港及韩国等亚洲学术重镇。
Some critics of PISA scores from China have questioned the test’s sampling process in Shanghai. While the city is home to many middle- and upper-class residents, who lavish extravagant sums on their children to give them a leg up in China’s cutthroat education system, it also has around 9.6 million migrant workers, whose children are often relegated to lower quality private schools.
中国一些批评PISA分数的人士曾质疑上海地区的测试抽样过程。上海有很多中产及上层阶级居民，他们在孩子身上投入了大量资金，帮助他们在中国残酷的教育体制中占据优势，与此同时，上海还有大约960万农民工，他们的子女通常就读于质量较差的私人学校。
Such variation in school qualities is taken into account by the testers, Mr. Schleicher said. The consortium that carried out the test globally, led by Australian Council for Educational Research, also administered it in Shanghai. It randomly sampled 6,374 students from over 200 schools in Shanghai, covering both the city’s elite public schools and its private migrant schools.
施莱谢尔表示，测试人员考虑了学校质量的差异。负责进行全球测试的是澳大利亚教育委员会(Australian Council for Educational Research)领导的一个联盟，上海地区的测试也由该联盟开展。该联盟从上海200多所学校随机选择了6374名学生，其中包括公立的精英学校和私立的民工子弟学校。
“The samples have been very carefully validated,” Mr. Schleicher said. “We have no indication of any bias in the samples from Shanghai. The migrant students were included in 2009, as well as in 2012.”
“选取的学生经过了仔细的审核，”施莱谢尔说。“我们没发现上海的样本选择存在任何偏见。2009年及2012年都有民工子女参加测试。”
Mr. Schleicher argued that criticism of the test and how poorly American students fare distracted from the significance of Shanghai’s achievements. The city’s teachers foster collaborative learning, he said, and as a result students have shown remarkable ability to make creative use of textbook knowledge.
施莱谢尔辩称，由于针对此项测试的批评，以及美国学生的糟糕表现，人们忽视了上海所获成就的重要意义。他表示，上海教师培养了合作学习的习惯，学生由此展现了创造性利用课本知识的卓越能力。
“Shanghai has a highly meritocratic system in which success in education brings status,” he said. “It’s also been very successful in attracting talented teachers into disadvantaged schools.”
“上海的教育系统具有极强的成就导向，教育的成功会带来地位，”他说。“上海还成功地将优秀教师吸引到了条件较差的学校。”
Wendy Kopp, the founder of Teach For America and the chief executive of Teach For All, an international network of educational nonprofit organizations, said that while there is a wide gap between the opportunities provided students in China’s poorer regions compared with cities like Shanghai, government officials and teachers across the country show a remarkable level of commitment to education.
美丽美国(Teach For America)创始人、国际非营利教育组织美丽世界(Teach For All)首席执行官温迪·科普(Wendy Kopp)表示，虽然中国贫困地区的学生与上海等城市地区的学生获得的机会存在很大差距，但政府官员及全国各地的教师对教育事业非常投入。
“Clearly, China has a long way to go,” Ms. Kopp said. “But to me, the PISA scores show us what is possible. They show us it’s possible for a country to improve its outcome significantly in an incredibly short number of years.”
“很明显，中国还有很长的路要走，”科普说。“但在我看来，PISA分数向我们展示了无限的可能性。它们说明，一个国家能够在短得让人难以置信的时间内大幅度改善成果。”