SHANGHAI — The Walt Disney Company unveiled on Wednesday the designs and attractions at the new megaresort that is expected to open here in Shanghai in the spring, its first theme park in mainland China.
上海——华特·迪士尼公司(The Walt Disney Company)在周三公布了一座新的迪士尼综合乐园的设计和游乐项目。这片度假区将于明年春天在上海开幕，是中国大陆的第一座迪士尼主题乐园。
The company said it was completing work on a 1.5-square-mile area that will house the Shanghai Disney Resort, with six themed areas, including one devoted to the hit “Pirates of the Caribbean” film series, as well as live entertainment venues, a Broadway-style theater, two hotels and the “tallest, largest and most interactive castle at any Disney theme park.”
迪士尼公司表示，即将完成占地1.5平方英里（约合390公顷）的上海迪士尼度假区的建设工作。该乐园包括6大主题园区，其中一个将围绕热门系列电影《加勒比海盗》展开，此外还包括多处现场娱乐场所、一家百老汇风格的剧院、两家宾馆，以及“一座全球迪士尼乐园中最高、最大、最具互动性的城堡”。
“We are taking everything we’ve learned from our six decades of exceeding expectations — along with our relentless innovation and famous creativity — to create a truly magical place that is both authentically Disney and distinctly Chinese,” Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive and chairman, said at a news conference here.
迪士尼首席执行官兼董事长罗伯特·A·艾格(Robert A. Iger)在上海的新闻发布会上表示，“我们把过去60年来所积累的一切关于如何超越游客期待的秘诀，加以迪士尼永无止境的创新精神和丰富创意，来打造这样一个‘原汁原味迪士尼、别具一格中国风’的神奇度假目的地。”
Shanghai Disneyland represents an enormous bet on China’s shifting approach to westernized entertainment and leisure travel. Mr. Iger has said the company considers the $5.5 billion resort to be as transformative for the company as the establishment of Walt Disney World in Florida was in the 1970s.
上海迪士尼乐园代表的是一次巨大的赌博，押注的是中国向西式娱乐和休闲旅游方式的转变。艾格表示，这一斥资55亿美元的乐园对迪士尼公司的变革意义，不亚于70年代在佛罗里达州建成的华特·迪士尼世界。
Disney’s goal is to create an engine that will drive demand in China for a wide range of Disney products: toys, clothes, furnishings, movie downloads and video games. Disney typically relies on the creation of new Disney TV channels to pump its brand abroad, but China’s limits on foreign media have made that impossible.
迪士尼的目标是要打造一个引擎，推动中国对大量迪士尼产品的需求，包括玩具、服饰、室内陈设，电影下载和电子游戏。在向海外推广品牌的过程中，迪士尼通常依赖的方式是设立新的迪士尼电视频道，不过中国对境外媒体的限制使得这一方式变得不现实。
But Disney is walking a careful line. China approved the resort only after Disney promised that it would reflect Chinese culture. To that end, Disney’s messaging has been careful, with executives at the company’s headquarters in Burbank, Calif., repeatedly referring to the park as “authentically Disney and distinctly Chinese.”
不过，迪士尼小心行事。在公司承诺乐园将会呈现中国文化以后，中国才批准了乐园的建设。为此，迪士尼在讯息的传达上颇为谨慎。来自美国加利福尼亚州伯班克总部的高管们不断强调，这个主题乐园是“原汁原味迪士尼、别具一格中国风”。
Disney has tried to keep its specific plans for the Shanghai resort a secret, partly because it wants to control the marketing message and partly because of fears that Chinese parks would churn out copycat attractions. Those worries were stoked earlier this month, when a Chinese animated movie called “Autobots” was marketed with images that were nearly identical to characters from Disney-Pixar’s “Cars.”
此前迪士尼一直对上海迪士尼的具体规划方案守口如瓶，一方面是因为公司希望能够控制营销讯息，另一方面则是由于担心会出现大量山寨的中国公园。本月早些时候发生的事情更是验证了迪士尼的担忧，中国推出了一部名为《汽车人总动员》的动画片。该片的多幅宣传图片和迪士尼-皮克斯(Disney-Pixar)的《赛车总动员》(Cars)几乎一模一样。
Despite Disney’s efforts, however, plans for the park have leaked for months onto fan blogs. Generating particular interest online ahead of Wednesday’s announcement was Disney’s decision to build a major “Tron”-themed attraction. “Tron: Legacy” was released in China in 2010, but it took in only $19 million there. Disney recently decided not to move ahead with a sequel.
虽然迪士尼做出了种种努力，但几个月来各种相关方案还是泄露到了粉丝博客上。在周三官方正式公布整体方案前，网友们最感兴趣的是“创”主题公园。电影《创：战纪》(Tron: Legacy)于2010年在中国上映，不过只获得了1900万美元的票房。迪士尼最近决定不推进续集的创作。
To compare, the last “Pirates of the Caribbean” movie, subtitled “On Stranger Tides,” took in $70 million in China in 2011. The strong audience response was one reason Disney felt comfortable in moving ahead with plans for a large “Pirates”-themed area.
相较之下，2011年在中国上映的最新一部“加勒比海盗”系列电影《加勒比海盗：惊涛怪浪》(Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides)，获得了7000万美元票房。迪士尼之所以乐于推进一个以“海盗”为主题的大型园区的建设，一个原因就是观众对该片的热烈追捧。
Disney knows all too well the downside of skimping on rides and shows. A boutique-size Hong Kong Disneyland, which opened in 2005, struggled with losses for its first six years, in part because attendance was lower than expected; visitors and the local news media criticized the park as not offering enough to do.
对于游乐项目和演出节目不足造成的负面影响，迪士尼再清楚不过了。占地极为有限的香港迪士尼乐园于2005年开幕，头六年里一直处于亏损状态，其中部分原因是入园人数低于预期；游客及当地新闻媒体批评那里游乐项目不足。
Disney and the Hong Kong city government, which owns 52 percent of that resort, have since poured more than $1 billion into a resort expansion that will stretch into 2017. Last year, Hong Kong Disneyland attracted 7.5 million people — roughly flat compared with 2013 — and generated $42.8 million in net profit, a year-over-year increase of 36 percent, according to Disney.
迪士尼和持有该乐园52%股份的香港政府，已投入逾10亿美元用于乐园扩建。扩建工作将持续到2017年。据迪士尼介绍，去年香港迪士尼乐园吸引了750万人——与2013年大致持平——带来了4280万美元的净利润，同比增加36%。
In its announcement Wednesday, Disney said the new resort had more technology and original features than previous parks, including many Chinese features blended into mosaics, gift items, performances and even the huge castle.
在周三发布的方案中，迪士尼称，和之前的迪士尼乐园相比，新乐园体现了更多科技和原创元素，许多镶嵌画、礼物、表演甚至大城堡中，都融入了中国特色。
Some of Disney’s most iconic attractions, including Space Mountain, It’s a Small World and Star Tours, a “Star Wars”-themed journey through space, will not be featured when the park opens.
乐园在开业时将不会包括迪士尼部分最具代表性的经典游乐项目，如飞越太空山(Space Mountain)、小小世界(It’s a Small World)和以《星球大战》为主题的太空之旅星际遨游(Star Tours)。
Perhaps surprisingly, “Star Wars” and the Marvel superhero movies will be represented upon opening, not by showpiece rides but by costumed character meet and greets, a comic book drawing area and a “cinematic experience.” When the resort opens, its Broadway-style venue, the Walt Disney Grand Theater, will have a global premiere of Disney’s hit show “The Lion King” in Mandarin.
或许有些意外的是，《星球大战》和漫威系列超级英雄影片会在开业时重现，但并非主题游览路线，而是通过身着戏服的演员见面会、漫画绘制区和“电影体验”的形式。开业时，百老汇风格的沃尔特·迪士尼大剧院(Walt Disney Grand Theater)将举行迪士尼大受欢迎的节目《狮子王》(The Lion King)普通话版的全球首演。
Shanghai Disneyland will most likely rely less on repeat attendance and annual passes than its Hong Kong cousin. Disney estimates that 330 million people live within three hours of the Shanghai property, which is in the Pudong district.
相比于香港迪士尼乐园，上海迪士尼乐园极有可能不那么依赖多次入园票和年票。迪士尼估计，三小时以内可到达位于浦东区的上海迪士尼乐园的人有3.3亿。
Disney owns about 43 percent of Shanghai Disneyland, with the balance held by Shanghai Shendi, a government-controlled entity; Disney retains operational control, however, holding a 70 percent stake in the management company created with Shendi to run the resort.
迪士尼拥有上海迪士尼乐园大约43%的股份，其余股份由政府控制的实体公司上海申迪持有。但迪士尼保留了经营控制权。在为经营乐园而与申迪联合成立的管理公司里，迪士尼持有70%的股份。
Early this year, Disney said that it was moving the opening of the park to next spring, a delay from early 2016, and that the company and its Chinese partner would spend an additional $800 million to increase the number of rides on opening day, bringing total spending to $5.5 billion.
今年年初，迪士尼宣布将把开业时间从2016年年初推迟至春天，并称该公司和中方合作伙伴将再追加8亿美元，用于增加开业当天的游乐项目。这使得上海迪士尼的总投资增至55亿美元。