The Shanghai Jewish Refugees Museum unveiled a memorial wall on Wednesday listing the names of 13,732 Jews who found a haven in the Chinese city during World War II.
周三，上海犹太难民纪念馆揭幕了一座名单墙，上面罗列着二战期间在上海避难的13732个犹太人的名字。
In the 1930s and 40s, thousands of Jews escaping Nazi Germany arrived in Shanghai, a place they could enter without a visa. After the Évian Conference of 1938, when the major powers shut their doors to nearly all Jewish immigrants, the city remained one of the few available places of refuge. By the beginning of World War II, more European Jews had fled to Shanghai than any other city in the world.
在二十世纪三四十年代，数以千计的犹太人逃离纳粹德国，来到上海——一个不需要签证就能进入的地方。在1938年的埃维昂会议(Évian Conference)后，当世界大国对几乎所有犹太移民关起大门时，上海是少数几个可供避难的地方之一。二战伊始，逃往上海的欧洲犹太人比逃往任何其他城市的都多。
The memorial consists of a 111-foot-long copper wall etched with the names and featuring a sculpture of six allegorical figures representing faith, suffering, love, determination, light and hope, designed by the Chinese artist He Ning.
名单墙由一座111英尺（约合34米）长的铜墙构成，上面镌刻着人们的姓名，墙前还有一座雕塑，六个带有寓意的人物分别象征着信念、磨难、爱、决心、光明与希望，其设计者是中国艺术家何宁。
Chen Jian, the museum’s director, said the names on the memorial were compiled with the help of former Jewish refugees in Shanghai, as well as Chinese and foreign scholars, according to China Daily.
据《中国日报》报道，纪念馆馆长陈俭称，名单墙上的姓名是在上海前犹太难民以及中外学者的帮助下编定的。
Many of the names were taken from a list found in the German book “Exil Shanghai: 1938-1947,” co-authored by Sonja Mühlberger, 75, who was herself born in Shanghai to refugee parents in the 1930s and has been involved in the memorial project. The list in her book was first compiled during the war by three teenage Jewish girls hired by Japanese military officers to undertake an informal census. Most of the Jewish population then was relegated by the Japanese to an overcrowded district called Hongkou, a “designated area for stateless refugees.”
其中许多名字都来自德文原著《流亡上海：1938-1947》(Exil Shanghai: 1938-1947)中的一份名单，75岁的索尼娅·米尔贝格尔(Sonja Mühlberger)是作者之一。二十世纪三十年代，身为难民的父母在上海生下了她，她也参与了名单墙的工程。她书中的名单最初是三名被日本军官雇来进行非正式人口普查的犹太少女于战争期间编定的。当时，大多数犹太人都由日本人管理，被限定在一个叫做虹口的地区，那里极其拥挤，是“没有国家的难民的指定区域”。
In a museum press release, Ms. Mühlberger comments, “My parents’ experiences in Shanghai were certainly not the easiest, but if they had not been exiled there, I wouldn’t even be alive today, let alone have the chance to tell this history.”
在博物馆的新闻稿中，米尔贝格尔评论道，“我父母在上海的经历当然并不轻松，但是如果他们没有流亡到那里，我今天可能都不会活着，更不用说有机会讲述这段历史了。”
Werner Glass, 87, now lives in Mercer Island, Wash., but spent 14 years, from the ages of 6 to 20 as a Jewish immigrant in Shanghai, and so also owes his and his family’s survival to the city. He recalled the Ohel Moshe Synagogue, the site of the new memorial, as well as the harsh realities of life under Japanese occupation. His most vivid memory of wartime Shanghai was the aftermath of a Japanese air raid on Aug. 14, 1937, when he watched open trucks cart away body parts from his fifth-story window. “At first I didn’t recognize that they were people. I thought it was butchered animals or something.”
87岁的维尔纳·格拉斯(Werner Glass)目前住在华盛顿州默瑟岛，但是从6岁到20岁的14年间，他也曾是上海的犹太移民。他与家人能够幸存下来，也要感谢上海。他仍然记得这座新纪念墙所在地原来的摩西犹太会堂(Ohel Moshe Synagogue)，以及日本占领时期艰难的生活。他对战时上海最深刻的印象是，1937年8月14日在日本的一次空袭之后，他从五楼的窗户看到，敞篷卡车正在拖走一车车残肢。“开始我并没有意识到那是人。我还以为是被宰杀的动物或其他什么东西。”