HONG KONG — At least 36 people were killed and 47 injured in a stampede during New Year’s Eve celebrations in Shanghai, the city’s government reported.
香港——据上海市政府发布的消息，当地一处新年夜庆祝活动发生踩踏事件，造成至少36人死亡，47人受伤。
The deaths occurred in the eastern city’s famous Bund, the riverside area where tens of thousands had gathered.
此次致死事件发生在这座中国东部城市著名的外滩，数万人昨夜聚集在这里的河堤行道。
The stampede began after 11:35 p.m. in Chen Yi Square, the city said. The exact cause was unclear. President Xi Jinping ordered an immediate investigation, the official Xinhua news service reported.
市政府称，此次踩踏事件事发于陈毅广场，大约在晚上11:35之后。事发具体原因仍不清楚。据中国官方通讯社新华社消息，中国国家主席习近平已经批示要求抓紧调查事故原因。
In interviews Thursday at a local hospital, people who had been at the scene said that most of the victims were young people, including a 16-year-old girl.
周四在当地一家医院接受采访时，事发在场的目击者称大多数遇难者是学生，其中还包括一名16岁的女孩。
Images posted online showed huge crowds filling the pedestrian areas along the Huangpu River for a midnight light show.
网络上发布的一些图片显示人群挤在黄浦江沿岸的人行道上，等着观看一场午夜灯光秀。
Wu Tao, a man from Anhui Province, told the Shanghai-based news websiteEastday.com that shortly before the stampede began, the crowd in the square had grown quite large and disorderly.
据上海当地媒体东方网报道，一位名叫吴涛的安徽籍男子称在踩踏发生之前，陈毅广场上人流量很大、秩序混乱。而且因为部分人想上到观景平台，部分人想下观景平台，人流发生对冲。
About 11:50 p.m., people in a nearby building began dropping green pieces of paper that looked like American $100 bills, which set off a rush,Eastday.com quoted Mr. Wu as saying. Photographs posted online showed the fake notes, which bore the words “New Year 2015.”
东方网引述吴涛称，在大约晚上11:50的时候，附近的建筑里开始向外撒一些看起来很像美元百元大钞的绿色纸张，引发了骚动。网络上发布的照片显示，这些假钞上面写着“New Year 2015”的字样。
Xiao Ji, who said he had been in the square, wrote on his Weibo account: “All of a sudden, the whole crowd stopped moving — lots of crying and shouting. The police was helping too but there were so many people. I saw people faint in front of me. I was so scared.”
一名自称当时身在现场的网友“肖吉”在微博上写道：“在一瞬间人群就被压得一动不动，哭喊声、叫嚷声，周围都是。警察也在帮忙，但是无济于事，人太多了。我看着一个个人在我的眼前晕倒。我吓住了。”
Guo Xianzhong, a journalist with the Southern Metropolis Daily who was at the scene, wrote that the crush of people occurred on a stairway to a viewing platform near the prewar Peace Hotel.
在场的南方都市报记者郭现中写道，在和平饭店楼下附近靠近黄浦江的观景平台上下楼梯处，上行和下行的人群拥挤成一团。
Around 11:30 p.m., there were sounds of women screaming and children crying. A few minutes later, someone fell on the staircase, and people began to shout: “Don’t push! Someone fell!” Mr. Guo wrote.
大约在23:30，开始有女人尖叫和孩子的啼哭声，不安的情绪在迅速蔓延。几分钟后，楼梯最低处忽然有人被挤倒，人们一边试图拉起他们一边大声呼喊：“不要再挤了！有人摔倒了！”郭现中写道。
“People who wanted to come up and those who wanted to go down became congested, with more and more people filling in, and it became tense,” he wrote on the newspaper’s website.
“可惜这点声音都被淹没在上面不断涌下来的人群的嘈杂声里。于是，下面更多的人被层层涌来的人浪压倒，情势开始失控。”他在南方都市报的网站上如此写道。
Photos from the scene showed dense crushes of people pushing to escape the crowd. 
现场图片显示，黑压压的人群推挤着，争相要从人堆里逃脱。
The injured were treated at four local hospitals. On Thursday morning, the hospitals' lobbies were filled with friends and relatives of victims waiting for word on their condition. Early in the afternoon, a woman wailed and fell to the ground at the Long March Hospital after learning that her 16-year-old daughter had died, while others sobbed in doorways.
伤者被送往四家当地医院救治。周四早上，医院大厅内挤满了伤者的亲友，等待着希望得知他们的状况。下午早些时候，在上海长征医院，一名妇女在得知自己的16岁女儿已经不治身亡后，哀号着瘫倒在地，其他人则在门边啜泣。