A homeowner in Shanghai is suing over the destruction of his personal museum and garden in what some Chinese news outlets are reporting would be the country’s most expensive case of forced demolition.
上海的一名房主就其私人博物馆及花园被拆一事提起诉讼。有些中国新闻媒体报道称，这将会是中国最昂贵的强制拆迁案例。
The homeowner, Li Guangjia, asserts that the property and a collection of bonsai plants, unusual rocks and antiques he amassed over the past 20 years were worth 290 million renminbi, or about $48 million, and he is suing the Minghang district government in Shanghai for compensation.Forced demolitions are a regular phenomenon in China. Local governments depend on land sales for a significant part of their revenue, and developers can make huge returns off building projects in cities where property values have climbed dramatically in recent years. Land is owned by the state, and residents’ rights to their property are often tenuous and easily overridden by powerful officials and businesspeople.
房主刘光嘉声称这所房产，以及他在过去20年间收集的盆栽植物、奇石及古董总共价值2.9亿元人民币（约合4800万美元），刘光嘉对上海闵行区政府提起诉讼，要求获得赔偿。在中国，强拆是一个惯常现象。出售土地是地方政府一个重要的收入来源，而开发商则可以通过城市建设项目获得巨额收益，因为在最近几年，城市的房产价值急剧攀升。由于土地归国家所有，居民的房屋产权往往较为脆弱，很容易被有权势的官员和商人所乘。
Evictions are so frequent that individual cases seldom grab public attention unless there is something unusual about them. Sometimes “nail houses,” so-called because they jut out amid demolished wastelands, stand out for the way in which they symbolize resistance to demolition. A few homeowners have turned to suicide as a form of extreme protest against the loss of their property. A dozen people who drank poison Tuesday in Beijing to protest the demolition of their homes in the central city of Wuhan survived their dangerous bid for attention, the Associated Press reported.
由于强迫搬迁事件时常发生，个案很少能够获得公众的关注，除非有它们有不同寻常之处。那些矗立在拆迁过后留下的荒地之中的房子被称为“钉子户”，有时侯，“钉子户”会获得关注，因为它们是抵抗强拆的象征。有的房主选择自杀，他们以这种极端的方式对房产被剥夺表示抗议。据美联社(Associated Press)报道，周二，有12人在北京喝下毒药，抗议他们位于武汉市区的住所遭到强拆，这些以危险方式引起关注的房主最终活了下来。
The case of Mr. Li, a Korean War veteran in his 70s, stands out because he has asked for more government compensation than has been demanded in any similar suit, according to Beijing Youth Daily. Mr. Li has asked for the return of his items or compensation. His case is expected to go before a Shanghai district court on Wednesday.
现年70岁的刘光嘉曾参加过朝鲜战争，据《北京青年报》报道，刘光嘉的案件之所以受到关注，是因为他要求的政府赔偿大于同类诉讼案件要求的赔偿数额。刘光嘉要求归还他的物品或进行赔偿。该案将于周三在上海的一家区级法院进行审理。
Mr. Li says he and his wife were forcibly removed from their home in April 2012, and when they were able to return more than a day later, they found it demolished and most of his collection of more than 2,300 bonsai trees and 40,000 stones gone.
刘光嘉表示，2012年4月，他和老伴被强行带走，在经过一天多的时间，回到住所之后，他们发现房子已被拆除，2300多盆盆栽以及4万多块奇石收藏中的大部分都已消失不见。
Beijing Youth Daily said its reporter had seen a video that showed demolition crew bosses divvying up the contents of Mr. Li’s museum.
《北京青年报》称该报记者看到一个视频，显示强拆现场的指挥人员对刘光嘉博物馆内的收藏品进行分赃。
“This jade object, can I take it?” one worker asks, according to the report.
《北京青年报》报道称，有强拆者请示：“这里有玉器之类的东西，可以拿吗？”
“Consider it yours,” another replies.
另一个人回答说：“算你们的了。”