HONG KONG — A small producer of solar panels on Friday became the first company in recent history to default in China’s domestic bond market, a development welcomed by analysts as a sign that the nation’s huge but protected corporate debt market may be growing up.
香港——一家太阳能组件小型制造商周五成为中国国内债券市场近期历史上的首家违约公司，分析人士对此表示欢迎，认为这是一种迹象，表明中国巨大的、受保护的公司债务市场可能正在走向成熟。
The Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company, which makes solar cells and panels, failed to meet a Friday deadline to make an annual interest payment on a bond of 1 billion renminbi, or $163 million, that it sold to domestic investors in 2012, a company official said Friday.
上海超日太阳能科技有限公司主要生产太阳能电池和组件，该公司无法在周五的最后期限前支付一笔债券的年度利息，这笔总值为10亿人民币的债券是公司在2012年出售给国内投资者的，该公司一名负责人周五说。
The bond “is confirmed to be in default,” the official, Liu Tielong, the secretary to the board of directors at Chaori, said Friday in a telephone interview.
超日公司董事会秘书刘铁龙周五在电话采访中说，债券“违约已成定局”。
Mr. Liu said the situation had not changed from Tuesday, when Chaori said in a stock exchange announcement that it had come up with only about 4 million renminbi out of the 89.8 million renminbi payment due Friday. The company did not plan to make a further announcement, he added.
刘铁龙说，情况自周二以来没有改变，超日曾于周二在股票交易所宣布，公司只筹集到了约400万元，但周五需要支付的到期利息达8980万元。他补充说，公司没有计划做出进一步的宣布。
Other recent cases in which Chinese companies came close to defaulting on debt or other payments were averted at the last minute, usually with government intervention. That no 11th-hour bailout emerged for Chaori or its investors was viewed by analysts as a signal that the Chinese leadership is serious in its commitment to carrying out a market-oriented financial overhaul.
在最近的其他几起中国公司面临债务违约或其他付款违约时，都在最后一刻获救，往往是政府出面干预。这次超日及其投资者没有得到最后一刻的解救，分析人士认为这表明，中国领导人在认真对待其开展以市场为导向的金融改革的承诺。
Chaori’s default represents “a wake-up call for China’s bond market,” analysts at Moody’s Investors Service wrote Friday in a research note. They said the development would help China “introduce greater market discipline and advance the development of a risk-based bond market, in which pricing reflects the underlying credit risk.”
穆迪投资者服务公司(Moody's Investors Service)周五在一份研究简报中写道，超日的违约为“中国债券市场敲响了警钟”。他们说，这一发展将帮助中国“引入更强的市场约束，推进建立以风险为基础的债券市场，让债券的定价反映出潜在的信用风险。”
China’s domestic bond market has grown from nearly nothing a decade ago into the world’s third-biggest corporate debt market, after those in the United States and Japan. Total corporate bonds outstanding have risen to 8.5 trillion renminbi at the end of last year, from about 500 billion renminbi at the end of 2005, according to the official figures compiled by the Asian Development Bank.
中国国内债券市场十年前几乎不存在，现已发展成为世界上第三大企业债务市场，仅次于美国和日本。亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)汇编的官方数据显示，截至去年年底，企业的未尝债券总额，已从2005年底的5000亿元人民币，上升到8.5万亿元人民币。
Analysts and investors have grown concerned in recent years about the rising level of debt in China’s economy, especially as growth slows. Over all, despite the relative immaturity of the country’s bond markets, China’s corporate sector has loaded up on debt more aggressively than households or local governments.
分析人士和投资者近年来对中国经济中不断上涨的债务水平愈发感到担忧，尤其是在增长放缓的情况下。总体而言，尽管中国的债卷市场还相对不够成熟，但中国企业部门的负债额已远超过家庭或地方政府的负债。
Total debt in China stood around 210 percent of the country’s gross domestic product at the end of last year, a figure that is relatively high for China’s level of development, Louis Kuijs of the Royal Bank of Scotland wrote Monday in a research report.
截至去年年底，中国的债务总额是国内生产总值的约210%，这对中国的发展水平来说相对偏高，苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)的高路易(Louis Kuijs)周一在一份研究报告中这样写道。
Of that total, household debt was equal to 34 percent of G.D.P., the ratio for government debt was 57 percent of the economy, and corporate debt — both loans and bonds — was 119 percent.
总债务中，家庭负债相当于国内生产总值的34%，政府债务相当于57%，企业债务(包括贷款和债券)相当于119%。