SHANGHAI — It has been a roller coaster ride.
上海——事情的发展就像是在坐过山车。
Six days ago, Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive, was on a high, beaming as he guided reporters around the soon-to-open Shanghai Disneyland. Then came the mass shooting in Orlando, Fla., home to Walt Disney World. Mr. Iger responded by tightening security at that resort, releasing a statement expressing “heartbreak” and clearing a $1 million donation for shooting victims.
六天前，迪士尼的首席执行官罗伯特·A·艾格(Robert A. Iger)还喜气洋洋地带着记者参观即将开放的上海迪士尼度假区。然后佛罗里达州奥兰多枪击案发生了，而华特·迪士尼世界(Walt Disney World)就坐落在那里。艾格做出回应，加严了迪士尼世界的安全措施。他还发表声明，表示对枪击案感到“心碎”，并宣布为该案受害者捐赠100万美元。
But the show in Shanghai went on. At a festive event on Tuesday night to celebrate the start of an all-Mandarin version of Disney’s “Lion King” stage musical, Mr. Iger was surrounded by giddy lieutenants who had flown in for the party. The Champagne flowed freely. The next morning, a relaxed-looking Mr. Iger stood on the park’s “Tarzan” stage for a news conference attended by roughly 800 journalists from around the world.
上海的派对仍在继续。周二晚上的活动是庆祝迪士尼《狮子王》(Lion King)音乐舞台剧的全中文版开演。艾格被飞抵上海的大批兴高采烈的副手包围着，大家畅饮香槟。第二天上午，艾格神色轻松地站在公园的“人猿泰山”(Tarzan)舞台上举行了新闻发布会，台下是来自世界各地的约800名记者。
By Wednesday afternoon, however, more grim news from Florida cast a pall all the way to China: An alligator had dragged a toddler into a lake at a Disney World hotel. After a search, authorities announced that the boy was presumed dead. This time, Mr. Iger had one of his Florida executives express the company’s “devastated” reaction.
不过，到了周三下午，佛罗里达州传来另一则坏消息，阴影一路延伸到了中国：在迪士尼世界一家酒店的湖边，鳄鱼拖走了一个小孩。在进行搜索后，当局宣布判定男孩已经死亡。这一次，艾格让他在佛罗里达州的一名高管表达公司对此事的“悲痛至极”。
It was probably for the best that Wednesday night’s unveiling of the Shanghai Disneyland nightly fireworks show, “Ignite the Dream! A Nighttime Spectacular of Magic and Light,” was canceled because of a rainstorm.
周三晚上海迪士尼度假区的“点亮心中奇梦！”(Ignite the Dream! A Nighttime Spectacular of Magic and Light)夜间焰火秀揭幕活动因暴雨而取消。这样可能反而更好。
The opening celebration will resume on Thursday morning with a formal park dedication, attended by senior Chinese officials, in front of the park’s centerpiece castle, the largest and tallest (197 feet) Disney has ever built. At noon Shanghai time, Disney’s sixth resort, its first on the Chinese mainland, will officially open to the public.
开业庆典活动定于周四上午继续进行，正式的开园仪式将在中心城堡前面举行，中国高层官员将会出席。该城堡是迪士尼有史以来建造的最大、最高（197英尺，约合60米）的一座。在上海当地时间中午，迪士尼的第六座度假区，也是它在中国大陆的第一座，将正式对公众开放。
If there was not enormous pressure before to make certain that Thursday’s ceremony comes off without a hitch, there certainly is now.
如果说之前并没有巨大的压力一定要确保周四的仪式顺利进行，那么现在肯定也有了。
For Mr. Iger, 65, the opening of the 963-acre Shanghai Disney Resort is extremely personal. He started seeking approvals in the 1990s and now has direct relationships with people like Han Zheng, the Communist Party secretary in Shanghai. In May, China’s president, Xi Jinping, sat with Mr. Iger in a public meeting at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing — a rarely granted privilege that seemed to telegraph his personal approval of the arrival of a singular American brand.
艾格现年65岁，对他来说，占地963英亩的上海迪士尼度假区开业牵涉到很多私人情感在里面。他从90年代就开始寻求这个项目获得批准，如今他和上海市委书记韩正等人有了直接往来。今年5月，在北京人民大会堂举行的一次公开会议上，中国国家主席习近平坐在艾格旁边——这是一个很罕见的待遇，似乎表露出习近平个人对这个特殊美国品牌到来的认可。
The resort is majority-owned by a Chinese state-controlled consortium, but the profit potential for Disney remains nothing short of spectacular, analysts say. Disney holds a 43 percent stake in the park, where a single-day adult ticket costs $75 on weekends and holidays, a substantial price in China, and $56 on nonpeak days. That compares with $125 and $105 at Disney World in Florida. Disney will receive a commensurate slice of merchandise and food sales. It also will receive a fee for its role in managing the resort and royalties for the use of its characters.
上海迪士尼度假区的多数股权由一家国有控股的中国财团拥有，但分析师认为，迪士尼的潜在盈利能力仍然蔚为壮观。迪士尼拥有该乐园43%的股份。周末和节假日的单日成人票价格是499元人民币（约合75美元），在中国绝不算便宜，非高峰日则是370元。可以做个比较，佛罗里达州迪士尼世界的这两种票价分别为125美元和105美元。迪士尼可以获得商品和餐饮销售收入的相应份额，还能收取管理度假区的费用，以及使用迪士尼角色的版权费用。
Moreover, the company expects Shanghai Disneyland to increase interest across China for its movies, toys, clothes, television shows, video games and books.
此外，公司还预计，上海迪士尼乐园可以提升中国人对该品牌电影、玩具、服装、电视节目、电子游戏和书籍的兴趣。