A video of Shanghai subway passengers rushing away from a man who appeared to have fainted has once again sparked debate over whether people in China have become too callous to the needs of others.
一段显示上海地铁乘客从一名似乎晕过去了的男子身边跑开的视频，再度引发讨论，主题是中国人是否已经无情到置他人的需要于不顾。
The video shows a foreign man sitting in the subway car in a green T-shirt who suddenly begins sinking toward his right. He leans against a Chinese woman who jumps up, startled. The man topples to the floor. What follows is now the subject of heated discussion on Chinese social media.
这段视频显示，在地铁车厢里，一名身穿绿色T恤的外籍男子在座位上突然开始右倾，朝一名中国女子倒过去。那名女子惊恐地跳了起来。随后，这名男子翻倒在了地上。接下来的场面，成了中国社交媒体上热烈讨论的话题。
Instead of offering to help the man, the other passengers run off, leaving the car empty except for the man, who is now lying on his back on the subway floor.
其他乘客没有主动帮助那名男子，而是跑开了。车厢里空荡荡的，只有那名男子仰面躺在地上。
There was no sound accompanying the surveillance video, released by the Shanghai subway authorities. According to the Shanghai-based news portal Xinmin, a subway official said on Wednesday that exiting passengers eventually alerted subway employees at the next station to the man’s plight, but he had already recovered, looking somewhat dazed in the video, and left.
上海地铁运营方公布的这段监控视频没有声音。上海的新闻门户网站新民网称，一名地铁管理人员在周三表示，跑出车厢的乘客在到达下一站后找到站务员，描述了该男子的情况。但那时，该男子已经苏醒并起身离开了。从视频上看，那名男子醒来后有些茫然。
An unnamed representative from the Shanghai subway operator told Liberation Daily, the newspaper of the Shanghai Committee of the Communist Party, that stampedes of panicked passengers are often more dangerous than the event that triggers them. The subway authorities urge passengers to exercise sound judgment and help anyone who has fainted, the representative said.
上海地铁运营方一名不愿透露姓名的代表告诉上海市委机关报《解放日报》，乘客因惊恐而慌乱逃跑，这往往比引发恐慌的事件本身更危险。这名代表表示，地铁运营方呼吁乘客冷静判断，帮助晕倒的乘客。
Responses to an opinion poll run by the popular web portal Sina on Wednesday were roughly divided between “understanding” the rush to escape and criticizing the passengers for running away. About 30 percent of the respondents said that they too would have run away.
用户众多的门户网站新浪在周三发起了一项民意调查。结果显示，“理解”乘客匆忙逃离的受访者比例，和指责乘客逃走的受访者比例大致相当。大约30%的受访者表示，自己也会跟着逃跑。
This is not the first time that public reluctance to help has prompted national soul-searching. The case of Wang Yue, a 2-year old girl in Foshan, Guangdong Province, who was struck by two vehicles and ignored by at least 18 passers-by before a garbage collector came to her assistance, stirred anguished debate over common decency. The girl died from her injuries eight days later.
在过去，公众不愿提供帮助的现象也曾引发全国范围的反思。王悦事件就引发了一场关于起码的行为准则的激烈讨论。在该事件中，广东佛山的2岁女孩王悦遭到两辆车的碾压后，至少18名路人对其视而不见，直到最后，一名捡垃圾的人上前帮忙。8天后，小姑娘因伤离世。
What makes the recent fainting incident more striking is that it happened in Shanghai, China’s gleaming financial capital and home to some of the country’s most sophisticated citizens.
让最近这起乘客晕倒事件更引人关注的，是它发生在上海。上海是中国熠熠生辉的金融中心，生活着一些最有修养的中国公民。