The Chinese police detained five people on Wednesday as part of an investigation into the use of chicken and beef beyond their expiration dates by an American-owned meat processing plant. The factory, in Shanghai, supplied McDonald’s, KFC and other fast-food restaurants in China.
周三，中国警方继续对一家美国肉食加工厂使用过期鸡肉和牛肉的案件开展调查，并拘留了五人。这家位于上海的工厂为麦当劳(McDonald’s)、肯德基(KFC)和中国的其他快餐店提供原料。
Those detained include the responsible officer and the quality-control manager of Shanghai Husi Food, which is a subsidiary of the OSI Group, based in Aurora, Ill., according to a statement posted Wednesday on the official microblog of the Shanghai public security bureau. The bureau is conducting an investigation with the municipal food and drug administration.
上海市公安局周三在其官方微博上发表声明称，上海福喜食品有限公司加工厂的负责人及质量管控经理等人被拘留。上海福喜食品隶属于总部位于伊利诺伊州奥罗拉市的欧喜集团(OSI Group)。上海市公安局正在与市食品药品监督管理局开展联合调查。
So far, investigators have found that from June 18 to 30, workers at Shanghai Husi used expired or rotten meat to manufacture Chicken McNuggets, beef patties and other food products totaling 5,108 boxes, Xinhua, the official news agency, reported on Wednesday. Officials had seized 100 tons of meat products as of Tuesday, the report said.
周三，官方新闻机构新华社报道称，迄今为止，调查人员发现，在6月18日到30日期间，上海福喜公司的工人利用过期或腐烂肉类生产麦乐鸡块、牛肉饼及其他食品，产品共计5108箱。该报道称，截至周二，工作人员查获了100吨肉食品。
In addition to McDonald’s and KFC, Chinese restaurants including Burger King, Starbucks, the Papa John’s pizza chain and Dicos, a Taiwanese fast-food chain with outlets throughout greater China, have stopped obtaining supplies from Shanghai Husi. So has McDonald’s Holdings Japan, which said that it had relied on Shanghai Husi for about 20 percent of its McNuggets in the country.
除了麦当劳和肯德基，汉堡王(Burger King)、星巴克(Starbucks)、披萨连锁店棒约翰(Papa John’s)、德克士(Dicos)等品牌的中国餐厅已经停止从上海福喜采购原料。德克士是一家台湾快餐连锁店，在大中华区有很多门店。麦当劳日本控股公司(McDonald’s Holdings Japan)也决定停止采购，该公司透露，日本20%的麦乐鸡原料是由上海福喜提供的。
The investigation into Shanghai Husi was set off by an investigative news report broadcast Sunday on the Shanghai-based Dragon TV, which showed hidden-camera footage of workers at the meat processing plant using out-of-date chicken and beef to make burger patties and chicken products. In some cases, workers were shown scooping up meat that had fallen onto the assembly line floor and throwing it back into a processing machine.
周日，在上海的东方卫视播放了调查性新闻报道节目后，相关方面开始对福喜展开调查。节目中有用隐藏的摄影机拍摄的镜头，显示了该肉食加工厂的工人用过期的鸡肉和牛肉制作汉堡肉饼和鸡肉产品。在一个镜头中，工人把从生产线上掉下来肉捡起来，扔回加工机中。
Dragon TV reporters showed workers at Shanghai Husi using chicken meat that was two weeks past its expiration date, and beef that was six months beyond its expiration date. In one instance, the report said, workers at the plant hid supplies of expired meat while inspectors from McDonald’s carried out an audit, only to resume using them after the inspectors left.
东方卫视记者披露，上海福喜食品厂的工人使了用过期两周的鸡肉和过期六个月的牛肉。在报道给出的一个例子中，当麦当劳的视察员前来检查时，该肉食加工厂的工人把厂里的过期肉藏起来，视察员离开后继续使用。
Speaking on an earnings conference call on Tuesday, Don Thompson, the chief executive of McDonald’s Corporation, said, “We do feel that we were a bit deceived” in China.
周二，麦当劳首席执行官唐·汤普森(Don Thompson)披露季报的电话会议中表示，“我们的确感觉，我们在中国受到了一些欺骗。”
“We are no longer serving a product from the primary facility there that has the challenges and the issues,” Mr. Thompson said. “The matter is being thoroughly investigated. And we’re cooperating fully with the authorities.”
“我们将不再使用存在挑战和问题的主要厂家所供应的产品，”汤普森说。“此事目前正在经受全面调查，我们也对官方给予了全面的配合。”