Is the education system in Shanghai, China’s largest and most internationalized city, really a paradigm of academic excellence and educational equity, or does its stellar performance mask a grimmer reality, in which one of the world’s largest barriers to education opportunities plagues tens of thousands of its residents?
中国最大、最国际化的城市上海的教育系统，真的是学术优秀和教育公平的典范？还是其一流的表现掩盖了一个更严峻的现实：对上海成千上万的居民来说，他们在受教育的机会上面临着世界上最大的障碍之一？
The question has been the subject of intense debate among scholars and educators since December, when the Program for International Student Assessment, or PISA, released the results of its 2012 tests. These showed students from Shanghai scoring highest in all three categories: reading, math and science.
这个问题自去年12月以来一直在学者和教育学家中引起激烈争论，当时国际学生评估项目（Program for International Student Assessment，简称PISA）发布了2012年的测试结果。结果显示，来自上海的学生在所有三个类别都得了最高分：阅读、数学和科学。
Conducted by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, PISA is given every three years to more than half a million 15- and 16-year-old students from 65 countries. Shanghai has been the top-scoring region for the last two rounds, followed by other Asian economies such as Singapore, Hong Kong and South Korea. In the PISA report, the O.E.C.D. commends Shanghai’s achievement. In particular, it praises Shanghai for its effort to promote educational equity, describing near-complete enrollment of local children at primary and middle schools that is “ahead of the pack in universal education.”
经济合作与发展组织（Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development，简称OECD）每三年做一次国际学生评估，参加测试的是15、16岁的学生，人数超过50万，来自世界各地的65个国家。在最近的两次评估中，上海都是得分最高的地区，其后是其他亚洲国家和地区，比如新加坡、香港和韩国。OECD在国际学生评估报告中表扬了上海的成就。还特别赞扬了上海在促进教育公平上的努力，称上海儿童的中小学入学率几乎百分之百，“在全民教育方面遥遥领先。”
While many Western observers have rushed to uncover the secret to Shanghai’s success, others argue that PISA has portrayed Shanghai in an overly positive light by failing to present the whole picture.
一些西方观察者急于揭示上海成功的秘密，而另外一些人则认为，由于测试结果不能展现整体情况，PISA报告把上海描述得过于乐观。
In a series of articles published on the Brookings Institution’s website, Tom Loveless, a former professor at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government and an expert on education policy, questioned the inclusiveness and representativeness of PISA’s Shanghai samples. He pointed out a glaring oddity in the PISA data: Shanghai, a city of 24 million, reports only slightly more than 100,000 15-year-olds, a number similar to that reported in Portugal and Greece, countries with less than half Shanghai’s population.
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)网站最近发表了系列文章讨论这个问题，曾在哈佛大学肯尼迪政府学院担任教授的教育政策专家汤姆·洛夫莱斯(Tom Loveless)对国际学生评估测试对上海市学生抽样的全面性和代表性提出质疑。他指出PISA数据中有一个明显的奇怪之处：上海的人口为2400万，但报告中15岁学生的总数却只略微超过10万，与葡萄牙和希腊的差不多，而这些国家的人口还不到上海市的一半。
“Where did all of Shanghai’s 15-year-olds go?” Mr. Loveless asked.
洛夫莱斯问道，“上海15岁的孩子都哪儿去了？”
His answer is that China’s restrictions on internal migration are to blame. Shanghai has a migrant population of 10 million, about 40 percent of its total population. Because of the country’s household registration system, known as the hukou system, which ties access to subsidized education and health care to hometowns, migrants do not enjoy the same access to Shanghai’s schools and hospitals as local residents.
他对这个问题的答案直指中国对国内人口流动的限制。上海市的流动人口为1000万，占其总人口的40%。中国的户口制度把享受教育和医疗补贴的待遇与户口登记地挂钩，由于这种限制，上海的外来人口不能上有本地户口的居民上的学校，也没有本地人所享受的医疗待遇。
Currently, migrant children can enroll in selected primary and middle schools in Shanghai, up through the ninth grade. However, around the age of 15, most children must return to their hometowns to attend high school, which runs from 10th to 12th grade. They can take the gaokao, the national university entrance exam, only in their home provinces, according to the current hukou policy.
现在，外来人口的孩子可以在上海特定的小学和中学就读，直到初中毕业。但是在差不多15岁时，大多数学生必须回原籍读高中。目前的户口制度要求，学生只能在自己的户籍所在地参加高考。
Such restrictions drive migrant children out of the city as early as primary school, statistics show. In a chart provided by Kam Wing Chan, professor of geography at the University of Washington and an expert on Chinese migration, the percentage of migrant children out of the total child population in Shanghai declines steadily in each age bracket starting at age 8. It picks up again at the age of 16, as migrants, having completed middle school in their home provinces, swarm to Shanghai seeking jobs.
统计数据显示，这种限制导致了流动人口的孩子最早在小学时就开始离开上海。华盛顿大学(University of Washington)地理系教授陈金永(Kam Wing Chan)专门研究中国的流动人口，他提供的一个图表显示，流动人口儿童的人数占上海儿童总数的百分比，在8岁以上的每个年龄组中持续下降。但是，在从16岁开始的年龄组中，该百分比有所回升，因为那些在家乡念完初中的人开始加入到流动人口的大军中，涌入上海找工作。
“By the time they reach 15, there are far fewer migrant kids left in Shanghai’s education system,” Mr. Chan said in a telephone interview. Speaking of PISA, he added, “No matter how it samples, it is going to get only very few of them.”
陈金永在一次电话采访中说，“等他们的年龄达到15岁时，上海的教育系统中已经没有多少外地户口的儿童。”在谈到PISA时，他说，“无论它怎么抽样，都只能抽到这部分学生中的极少数。”
Furthermore, Mr. Chan said, the migrant children who do stay in school tend to come from more prosperous families, with better-educated parents. The result, he said, is a school system that gradually filters out the most disadvantaged children, accentuating Shanghai’s education status as “the cream of China.”
陈金永说，除此之外，那些留在上海上学的外地学生，大多来自比较富裕的家庭，他们的父母也受过更多的教育。他说，这就形成了一种教育体系，它把那些最弱势群体的孩子逐渐排除出去，把上海教育作为“中国最优秀的”地位突出出来。
The O.E.C.D. report on PISA discusses migrant children in Shanghai only briefly, stating that the city “has established the notion that migrant children are ‘our children’ and works constructively to include them in its educational development.” The word “hukou” does not appear in the report.
OECD的国际学生评估报告中只简短地提到上海流动人口儿童，称该市“已经确立了外来人口的儿童也是‘我们的孩子’的理念，并在将他们纳入上海的教育发展上采取了建设性的措施。”报告中没有出现“户口”这个词。
“They are presenting Shanghai in the best possible light” as “a paragon of educational equity, and that’s not accurate,” said Mr. Loveless, who objects to PISA’s comparison of Shanghai to other major world economies. “It’s such a unique system, I wouldn’t compare it to anybody,” he said in an interview.
洛夫莱斯说，“他们把上海最好的一面呈现出来”，把上海当作“教育公平的典范，这并不准确”。他认为PISA把上海与世界上其他主要经济体做比较是不对的。他在一次采访中说，“那是个独一无二的系统，我不会把它与任何系统做比较。”
Andreas Schleicher, who directs the O.E.C.D.’s international educational testing program, acknowledged the dip in Shanghai’s migrant population around age 15 but noted that it happens in other countries as well. “If you look at the United States, the percentage of disadvantaged children is very high in primary school,” he said by telephone, “and they are the first to drop out of school as they grow older.”
OECD的这个国际教育评估项目的负责人安德里亚斯·施莱谢尔(Andreas Schleicher)承认上海市外来人口中15岁的人口偏少这一事实，但他指出，其他国家也有这种情况。他在电话中说，“如果你看一下美国的情况，贫困儿童的比例在小学生中也很高。随着他们年龄的增加，他们成为最早辍学的人。”
Still, even by comparison with other regions and countries with similar levels of economic development and birthrates, the number of 15-year-olds in Shanghai seems startlingly low. In Hong Kong and Taipei, the capital of Taiwan, 15-year-olds account for 1.2 percent and 1.4 percent of the total population, respectively, according to data published by PISA. In Shanghai, they make up 0.45 percent.
但是，即使与那些经济发展水平和出生率相似的其他国家和地区相比，上海市15岁人口的比例看起来也惊人地低。PISA发布的数据显示，在香港和台湾的首府台北市，15岁的人分别占人口总数的1.2%和1.4%。而在上海，他们只占0.45%。
“There are limitations in the ways we conducted the test in most countries,” said Mr. Schleicher. “But even when you exclude the 30 percent of worst-performing students in the United States, Shanghai still performs No. 1.”
施莱谢尔说，“我们在大多数国家做这个测试的方法都有局限性。但是，就算你不考虑美国表现最差的那30%的学生，上海的表现仍位于第一。”
In past interviews, Mr. Schleicher has referred often to PISA results collected from other provinces of China to make another point: Even children from less advantaged backgrounds are performing well in Chinese schools.
在过去的采访中，施莱谢尔经常提到从中国其他省份收集的PISA结果，来表达另一个观点：即使是来自条件较差的家庭的孩子，他们在中国学校中也表现颇佳。
But Mr. Loveless noted that these scores have not been published, and he questioned whether the O.E.C.D. gives the Chinese government special treatment. Mr. Schleicher has said the results have not been published because the sampling and testing were conducted by provincial governments rather than by the O.E.C.D.
但是，洛夫莱斯指出，那些测试结果并没有公布过，他质疑OECD是否给中国政府予特殊对待。施莱谢尔说，没有公布那些结果是因为抽样和测试是省级政府、而不是OECD做的。
In recent years, Shanghai has made remarkable progress in integrating migrants into its education system. It has opened up a large number of primary and secondary schools to migrant children, as well as a number of vocational schools. It has also implemented a point-based residency system, which allows migrants to apply for a residency permit based on their age, education, professional skills and employment status.
近年来，上海在将流动人口纳入其教育体系方面做出了很大进步。上海对外来人口的孩子开放了好几家小学和中学，以及几所职业学校。上海还实行了一个基于分数的户籍系统，允许外来人口申请居住许可，并根据他们的年龄、受教育程度、职业技能以及就业状态给他们的申请打分。
Still, the system strongly favors migrant children with highly educated and well-to-do parents, and effectively leaves the majority of the less resourceful families to their own devices.
然而，这个系统仍对那些父母受教育程度较高、家境较富裕的外来人口孩子给予特别的优待，对那些家庭条件不好的大多数人听之任之。
“Shanghai should be commended for implementing some hukou reforms,” but “that does not justify PISA’s portrayal of Shanghai as a model of educational equity,” Mr. Loveless wrote in his most recent blog post on the subject. “There is considerable distance between taking the first steps towards righting an historical wrong and acting in a way that other nations should follow.”
洛夫莱斯在针对这个话题而发的最近一篇博文中写道，“上海在推行一些户籍改革方面应该受到赞扬，”但“这不是PISA把上海描述为教育公平典范的理由。在纠正一个历史错误上迈出第一步与被当成其他国家应该效仿的典范之间有相当大的距离。”