WASHINGTON — A three-judge federal appeals panel on Thursday unanimously refused to reinstate President Trump’s targeted travel ban, delivering the latest and most stinging judicial rebuke to his effort to make good on a campaign promise and tighten the standards for entry into the United States.
华盛顿——周四，一个由三名法官组成的上诉委员会一致拒绝恢复特朗普总统有针对性的入境禁令。这是他为兑现竞选承诺、收紧入境标准而采取的行动所受到的最新、最沉重的司法打击。
The ruling was the first from an appeals court on the travel ban, and it was focused on the narrow question of whether it should be blocked while courts consider its lawfulness. The decision is likely to be quickly appealed to the United States Supreme Court.
这是针对该入境禁令首个来自上诉法院的判决。法院在考虑其合法性时，把重点放在了是否应该禁止执行该命令这个狭义问题上。这一判决可能很快会被上诉至美国最高法院。
That court remains short-handed and could deadlock. A 4-to-4 tie in the Supreme Court would leave the appeals court’s ruling in place.
最高法院法官的空缺尚未填满，结果可能会陷入僵局。如果出现4比4的平局，最高法院便会维持上诉法院的判决。
Trial judges around the country have blocked aspects of Mr. Trump’s executive order, which suspended travel from seven predominantly Muslim countries and limited the nation’s refugee program, but no other case has yet reached an appeals court.
全美多名初审法官下令禁止执行特朗普行政命令的部分内容。该命令禁止以穆斯林为主的七国公民进入美国，并对美国的难民计划进行了限制，但目前尚无其他案件诉至上诉法院。
The decision, from a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, reviewed a ruling issued last Friday by Judge James L. Robart, a federal judge in Seattle. Judge Robart blocked the key parts of Mr. Trump’s executive order, allowing immigrants and travelers who had been barred entry to come into the United States.
由旧金山美国联邦第九巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit)的三名法官组成的一个委员会做出的判决，对西雅图联邦法官詹姆斯·罗巴特(James Robart)上周五做出的裁决进行了复审。罗巴特下令禁止实施特朗普行政命令中的关键内容，允许被禁止入境的移民和游客进入美国。
Judge Robart’s ruling inspired a harsh attack from Mr. Trump, who accused the judge of endangering national security. After the appeals court heard arguments on Tuesday, Mr. Trump issued a pre-emptive critique on Twitter.
罗巴特法官的判决遭到了特朗普总统的猛烈攻击，他指责该法官损害国家安全。上诉法院周二听取了各方的观点后，特朗普在Twitter上发表了一番先发制人的评论。
“If the U.S. does not win this case as it so obviously should, we can never have the security and safety to which we are entitled,” he wrote. “Politics!”
“如果美国打不赢这场显然应该赢的官司，我们就再也享受不到应有的安全和保障了，”他写道。“政治！”
The judges on the Ninth Circuit panel were Judge Michelle T. Friedland, appointed by President Barack Obama; Judge William C. Canby Jr., appointed by President Jimmy Carter; and Judge Richard R. Clifton, appointed by President George W. Bush.
第九巡回上诉法院委员会的三名法官分别是贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)任命的法官米歇尔·T·弗里德兰(Michelle T. Friedland)、吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)总统任命的法官小威廉·C·坎比(William C. Canby Jr.)和乔治·W·布什总统任命的法官理查德·R·克利夫顿(Richard R. Clifton)。
In written submissions and at Tuesday’s argument, lawyers for the administration said the president’s national security judgments should not be second-guessed by the courts. They added that both the Constitution and a federal law gave the president broad power to decide who may enter the United States.
在提交的书面材料和周二的辩论中，联邦政府的代理律师称，法院不应事后批评总统的国家安全判断。他们接着表示，宪法和一项联邦法律均赋予了总统决定谁可以进入美国的广泛权力。
Lawyers for the two states challenging the ban, Washington and Minnesota, along with their allies, told the appeals court that the ban was motivated by religious discrimination, endangered rather than enhanced the nation’s safety and threatened the economy.
质疑该禁令的华盛顿州和明尼苏达州的律师及其支持者对上述法院表示，颁布该禁令的动机是宗教歧视，会危害而不是改善美国的安全，并且会危及经济。
The Trump administration urged the Ninth Circuit judges to reject arguments based on religious discrimination, even though Mr. Trump has said he meant to favor Christian refugees. Judicial consideration of the president’s motives, lawyers for the administration said, would violate the separation of powers.
特朗普政府呼吁第九巡回法院的法官驳回有关宗教歧视的理由，尽管特朗普曾说过，他会优先袒护信仰基督教的难民。联邦政府的律师称，司法机构考量总统的动机违反了三权分立。
In its briefs and at the argument, the administration’s position evolved. As the case progressed, the administration supplemented its request for categorical vindication with a backup plea for at least a partial victory.
在案情摘要和辩论中，联邦政府的立场发生了变化。随着案件的推进，联邦政府除要求明确证明该禁令正确外，还提出了至少部分胜诉的请求。
At most, a Justice Department brief said, “previously admitted aliens who are temporarily abroad now or who wish to travel and return to the United States in the future” should be allowed to enter the country notwithstanding the ban.
司法部的一份案情摘要说，顶多允许“之前已获得许可、现在暂时在国外或希望将来赴美和返美的外国人”入境，不受该禁令的限制。
The ban should continue to apply, the brief said, to people who have never visited the United States.
这份案情摘要称，禁令应该继续适用于那些从没来过美国的人。