WASHINGTON — A federal appeals court refused Thursday to reinstate President Donald Trump’s revised travel ban, saying it “drips with religious intolerance, animus and discrimination.”
华盛顿——一个联邦上诉法院周四拒绝恢复特朗普总统修订后的旅行禁令，称它“充满宗教上的不宽容、仇恨和歧视”。
The decision, from the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, in Richmond, Virginia, was a fresh setback for the administration’s efforts to limit travel from several predominantly Muslim countries.
来自弗吉尼亚州里士满的美国第四巡回上诉法院的决定，是政府一个旅行禁令遭遇的最新挫折，该禁令限制来自几个以穆斯林为主的国家的旅客入境。
Attorney General Jeff Sessions said the administration would appeal the decision to the Supreme Court.
司法部长杰夫·塞申斯( Jeff Sessions)表示，政府将向最高法院提出上诉。
“This Department of Justice will continue to vigorously defend the power and duty of the executive branch to protect the people of this country from danger, and will seek review of this case in the United States Supreme Court,” Sessions said in a statement.
“司法部将继续大力捍卫行政部门的权力和义务，以保护这个国家的人民免受危害，并将寻求美国最高法院审理这一案件。”他在一份声明中说。
The court’s vote was 10-3. The court divided along ideological lines, with the three Republican appointees in dissent.
法庭的投票结果是10比3。意识形态的不同导致了这种差异，共和党任命的三名法官不赞成这个裁定。
Writing for the majority, Chief Judge Roger L. Gregory said Trump’s statements on the campaign trail concerning Muslims showed that the revised order was the product of religious hostility. Such discrimination, he wrote, violates the First Amendment’s ban on government establishment of religion.
首席法官罗伯特·L·格雷戈里(Roger L. Gregory)代表多数派撰写了裁决书，他说，从特朗普在竞选活动中发表的关于穆斯林的声明来看，修订后的政令是宗教敌意的产物。他写道，这种歧视违反了第一修正案中禁止政府建立宗教信仰的条款。
“Then-candidate Trump’s campaign statements reveal that on numerous occasions, he expressed anti-Muslim sentiment, as well as his intent, if elected, to ban Muslims from the United States,” Gregory wrote. He cited, as an example, a 2015 statement calling for “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our representatives can figure out what is going on.”
格雷戈里写道：“特朗普作为候选人竞选总统的时候，在无数次声明中表达了他反穆斯林的情绪，以及他当选后会禁止美国穆斯林的意图。”例如，他援引了一个2015年的声明——呼吁“全面彻底地阻止穆斯林进入美国，直到我们的代表能够弄清楚发生了什么事情。”
The Trump administration had urged the appeals court to ignore the statements as loose language made before the president assumed office. But Gregory said the court could take account of the comments.
特朗普当局敦促该上诉法院把这些声明视为总统上任之前的不严谨说法，而予以忽视。格雷戈里说，法庭可以考虑这些意见。
“The campaign statements here are probative of purpose because they are closely related in time, attributable to the primary decisionmaker, and specific and easily connected to the challenged action,” Gregory wrote.
格雷戈里写道：“这些竞选声明是意图的证明，因为它们在时间上密切相关，来源于主要决策者，具体而明显地与遭受挑战的政令联系起来。”
The administration had argued that consideration of campaign rhetoric would chill political speech protected by the First Amendment. That was not a problem, Gregory said.
行政当局认为，如果拿竞选说辞说事，会给受到第一修正案保护的政治言论带来寒蝉效应。但格雷戈里说，这不是问题。
“To the extent that our review chills campaign promises to condemn and exclude entire religious groups, we think that a welcome restraint,” he wrote.
他写道：“既然我们的审查会约束那些谴责和排除整个宗教团体的竞选承诺，那我们认为这是一个受欢迎的限制。”