The U.S. Federal Reserve remains the most powerful central bank in the world. Its policy actions reverberate in every corner of the globe, something no other central bank can claim. Even the hint of a “taper” — the withdrawal of easy money policies — has roiled emerging markets. The prospect of rising interest rates in the United States has led investors to pull back from riskier investments in those countries. Emerging markets like Brazil, India and Indonesia are facing plunging currencies and declining stock markets.
美联储(U.S. Federal Reserve)依然是全世界最有影响力的中央银行。它的政策举措会影响到全球的各个角落，这是其他所有央行都无法做到的。即便是暗示会“逐渐收紧”，即收缩宽松的货币政策，就已经让新兴市场动荡不安了。美国可能会升高利率这一点促使投资者将资金撤出那些国家。像巴西、印度和印度尼西亚这样的新兴市场正面临着货币贬值，股市下跌。
Low interest rates in the United States had led investors to look to emerging markets for better returns on their money, fueling booms in equity and real estate markets as well as higher inflation in some countries. For the previous two years, emerging markets had been complaining about how these inflows fueled by cheap money in the United States caused their currencies to appreciate too rapidly, hurting their export competitiveness. The fact that those same currencies are now tumbling has led to the opposite complaint — that the Fed should back off more slowly from its earlier policies and better communicate its intentions to financial markets.
美国的低利率曾导致投资者希望在新兴市场获取更高的投资收益，促进了一些国家股市和房地产市场的繁荣，也加剧了通货膨胀。过去两年，新兴市场一直抱怨，美国低息资本推动的资金流入导致本国货币升值过快，削弱了它们的出口竞争力。如今，这些国家的货币正在贬值这一事实又引发了相反的埋怨，称美联储在放弃早些时候的政策时应该再慢一些，应该更好地向金融市场传达自己的用意。
Given the global impact of the Fed’s actions, the choice of a replacement for Ben Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve is being watched with keen interest. No matter who is chosen, there are important changes in store for central banks and financial markets the world over.
考虑到美联储的举措会影响到全球，外界正在热切关注接替本·伯南克(Ben Bernanke)担任美联储主席的人选。不管谁被选中，全世界的央行和金融市场都将迎来重要的改变。
Despite the global economic crisis, financial markets are now more closely connected then ever before. China, India and other major economies have continued removing restrictions to capital flows, opening up their markets to cross-border investment. Given this increased mobility, actions by any of the major central banks have effects well beyond their own national borders.
尽管出现了全球经济危机，但如今金融市场之间的联系却比以往任何时候都更紧密。中国、印度和其他主要经济体继续取消资本流动方面的限制，将本国市场的大门向跨国投资敞开。考虑到流动性增强，任何一家主要央行的举措都会影响到他国。
Moreover, in the aftermath of the crisis, central banks have become even more important to economic management, taking on much of the burden of controlling inflation, improving financial stability and promoting growth. This is a difficult balancing act in the best of times. It becomes virtually impossible when fiscal and other policies are working at cross-purposes.
此外，危机过后，央行在经济管理中的重要性进一步加强，在相当程度上承担着控制通货膨胀、提高金融稳定和促进增长的职责。即便在最好的时候，这也是一种很难维持的平衡。而在财政和其他政策各自为营时，实际上就变得不可能了。
In the United States, for instance, short-term fiscal tightening (along with the uncertainty associated with deficit and debt-ceiling negotiations that repeatedly go down to the wire) has hobbled the recovery. Meanwhile, little has been done to tackle the longer-term fiscal problems, especially entitlement spending. The focus on short-term austerity has limited productivity-enhancing expenditures in such areas as infrastructure and education.
比如，在美国，短期财政紧缩——再加上就赤字和债务上限进行的谈判屡屡到最后关头才见分晓所带来的不确定性——阻碍了经济复苏。与此同时，在解决长期财政问题，尤其是福利支出上，几乎没采取什么措施。对短期紧缩的关注制约了基础设施和教育等领域能提高生产力的支出。
In India, the government has been unwilling to undertake politically unpopular reforms to tackle large budget deficits and structural problems such as stifling labor-market regulations. This has left it to the makers of monetary policy to do all the heavy lifting. Other emerging markets face similar issues.
在印度，政府一直不愿进行在政治上不受欢迎的改革，解决巨额预算赤字，以及诸如压迫性的劳动力市场监管这样的结构性问题。这就把所有的艰巨任务都留给了货币政策制定者。其他新兴市场也面临着类似的问题。
The reliance on central banks to make up for the failings of other policies has created inevitable international tensions. The right monetary policy for one country might not necessarily be what is good for another. Unlike fiscal policies, whose effects tend to stay mostly domestic, monetary policies do affect currency values and financial markets in other countries through cross-border financial flows.
依赖央行弥补其他政策的不足，已经造成了不可避免的国际紧张局势。适宜于一国的货币政策，未必有利于其他国家。财政政策的影响往往都在国内，但不同于财政政策，货币政策的确会通过资金的跨国流动，影响其他国家的货币币值和金融市场。
Whoever takes over from Bernanke, the reality is that the Fed chairman has a mandate to focus only on domestic objectives. Fair enough: No central bank in the world has anything but domestic objectives in its mandate. But when the Fed acts, it matters to the world in a way that no other central bank’s actions do.
不管谁接替伯南克，现实都是，美联储主席受命只关注国内目标。这没什么错：世界上任何一家央行的使命都是仅限于国内目标的。但美联储的行动对世界的影响，是其他任何央行都无法比拟的。
In a report by a committee of academics and former central bankers in which I participated, we argued that the Fed and a small group of central banks from both advanced and emerging market economies should hold regular meetings and issue a report on their monetary policy intentions. Even if this procedure only exposed mutual inconsistencies in policy, it would be a way to bring broader pressure on politicians to stop relying on the crutch of monetary policy and prod them to take politically unpopular measures to improve productivity and the prospects of long-term growth while making global capital flows more stable.
我是一个由学者和前央行行长组成的委员会的成员。在这个委员会撰写的一份报告中，我们认为，美联储应该和来自发达经济体和新兴市场经济体的一小部分央行定期举行会谈，并就各自的货币政策目标发布报告。即便这种做法可能只会暴露彼此之间在政策上的不一致，它也能为政界人士带来更广泛的压力，迫使其不再依赖货币政策，刺激他们采取在政治上不甚受欢迎的措施，提高生产力，改善长期增长的前景，同时也能让资本的全球流动更稳定。
So who would the rest of the world vote for to head the most important central bank? Now that Lawrence Summers has withdrawn from the race, the presumptive front-runner is Janet Yellen. Many central bankers view her as someone who is empathetic to the spillover effects of U.S. policies, someone who has enough credibility to soothe financial markets and ably steer the Fed.
那么，除美国外的其他国家会支持谁来领导这家最有影响力的央行呢？既然劳伦斯·萨默斯(Lawrence Summers)已经退出了角逐，预计珍妮特·耶伦(Janet Yellen)会领先。许多央行行长认为，耶伦了解美国政策的溢出效应，有足够的本钱来安抚市场，出色地执掌美联储。
In any event, no matter who gets the job, what many of the world’s central bankers are hoping for is a Fed that can go back to the more modest objectives of maintaining low inflation and financial stability. On that, at least, there is certainly international agreement.
无论如何，不管谁得到这份工作，全世界许多央行行长期望的是，美联储能回归更温和的目标，即保持低通货膨胀和金融稳定。至少在这一点上，国际社会肯定达成了一致。