New Haven — BEFORE he fired the shot, the Einsatzgruppe commander lifted the Jewish child in the air and said, “You must die so that we can live.” As the killing proceeded, other Germans rationalized the murder of Jewish children in the same way: them or us.
纽黑文——开枪之前，纳粹德国别动队(Einsatzgruppe)指挥官把这个犹太小孩举到空中，说道，“只有你们死了，我们才能活下去。”杀戮继续进行，其他德国人也用同样的理由去合理化屠杀犹太儿童的行为：不是他们死，就是我们死。
Today we think of the Nazi Final Solution as some dark apex of high technology. It was in fact the killing of human beings at close range during a war for resources. The war that brought Jews under German control was fought because Hitler believed that Germany needed more land and food to survive and maintain its standard of living — and that Jews, and their ideas, posed a threat to his violent expansionist program.
如今，我们把纳粹分子的“最终解决”(Final Solution)看作是高科技发展黑暗面的极致体现。事实上这是在一场争夺资源的战争中对人类展开的近距离杀戮。这场战争将犹太人置于德国人控制之下，它之所以会发生，是因为希特勒认为德国需要更多土地和食物，以维持生存，保持其生活水准，而那些犹太人及其观念给他的武力扩张计划带来威胁。
The Holocaust may seem a distant horror whose lessons have already been learned. But sadly, the anxieties of our own era could once again give rise to scapegoats and imagined enemies, while contemporary environmental stresses could encourage new variations on Hitler’s ideas, especially in countries anxious about feeding their growing populations or maintaining a rising standard of living.
如今看来，纳粹对犹太人的大屠杀，似乎已是远去的噩梦，它的教训似乎也已经被吸取。但不幸的是，我们现在这个时代的焦虑可能会再次制造出替罪羊和假想敌，因为当代的环境压力有可能引发一些希特勒思想的变种，尤其是在那些人口不断增加而且需要持续提高生活水平的国家。
The quest for German domination was premised on the denial of science. Hitler’s alternative to science was the idea of Lebensraum. Germany needed an Eastern European empire because only conquest, and not agricultural technology, offered the hope of feeding the German people. In Hitler’s “Second Book,” which was composed in 1928 and not published until after his death, he insisted that hunger would outstrip crop improvements and that all “the scientific methods of land management” had already failed. No conceivable improvement would allow Germans to be fed “from their own land and territory,” he claimed. Hitler specifically — and wrongly — denied that irrigation, hybrids and fertilizers could change the relationship between people and land.
这种德国人主宰世界的追求有一个前提——否定科学。希特勒用“生存空间”论(Lebensraum)取代了科学。这种理论认为，德国需要建立一个东欧帝国，因为只有征服世界，而非依靠农业技术，才能保障德国人民吃饱饭。在作于1928年、但直到死后才出版的《第二本书》(Second Book)中，希特勒坚称，作物的改良跟不上饥饿恶化的速度，所有“有关土地管理的科学方法”都已失败。他还写道，看不到有什么改进能让德国人“在自己的土地和领地上”获取足够食粮。希特勒尤其错误地否定了灌溉、杂交和施肥等农业技术可以改变人与土地的关系。
The pursuit of peace and plenty through science, he claimed in “Mein Kampf,” was a Jewish plot to distract Germans from the necessity of war. “It is always the Jew,” argued Hitler, “who seeks and succeeds in implanting such lethal ways of thinking.”
在《我的奋斗》一书中，希特勒声称，通过发展科学实现和平富足，是犹太人的阴谋，它会削弱德国人发动战争的信念。“一直都是犹太人，”希特勒写道，“他们企图将这些致命的想法注入人们的头脑，并且成功了。”
As exotic as it sounds, the concept of Lebensraum is less distant from our own ways of thinking than we believe. Germany was blockaded during World War I, dependent on imports of agricultural commodities and faced real uncertainties about its food supply. Hitler transformed these fears into a vision of absolute conquest for total security. Lebensraum linked a war of extermination to the improvement of lifestyle. The chief Nazi propagandist, Joseph Goebbels, could therefore define the purpose of a war of extermination as “a big breakfast, a big lunch and a big dinner.” He conflated lifestyle with life.
尽管听起来比较奇异，但“生存空间”论和我们自身的思维方式的差距，并没有我们想象得那么大。德国人在第一次世界大战期间曾被封锁，只能依靠进口农产品，也经历了真正的食物供给不稳。希特勒把这些忧虑转化成一种追求完全征服以获得绝对安全的愿景。“生存空间”论将一场灭绝性战争与提高生活品质的努力联系在一起。所以，纳粹思想的主要传道者约瑟夫·戈培尔(Joseph Goebbels)会将一场灭绝性战争的目标描述为拥有“丰盛的早餐、丰盛的午餐和丰盛晚餐”。他在生活方式和生存之间划了等号。
To expand Germany’s Lebensraum, Hitler aimed to seize Ukraine from the Soviet Union, starve 30 million Eastern Europeans and transfer the food to Germany. When Germany invaded the Soviet Union in 1941, the campaign had two major aims: the control of fertile Ukrainian soil and the destruction of Jews living there. It was this invasion that placed defenseless Jewish children at the mercy of the murderous Einsatzgruppen.
为了扩大德国的“生存空间”，希特勒打算从苏联手中夺取乌克兰，让那里的3000万东欧人挨饿，将其食物转移至德国。1941年，德国入侵苏联的战役有两项主要目标：控制肥沃的乌克兰农田和杀死那里的犹太人。就是这场入侵行动，使得没有任何防备能力的犹太儿童落入凶残的别动队手中。
Climate change threatens to provoke a new ecological panic. So far, poor people in Africa and the Middle East have borne the brunt of the suffering.
气候变化有可能会引发新一轮的生态恐慌。目前，非洲和中东的贫困人口已经首当其中地在承受苦难。
The mass murder of at least 500,000 Rwandans in 1994 followed a decline in agricultural production for several years before. Hutus killed Tutsis not only out of ethnic hatred, but to take their land, as many genocidaires later admitted.
至少导致50万卢旺达人死亡的1994年大屠杀，是在持续多年的农业减产后发生的。就像很多犯种族灭绝罪的人后来所承认的，胡图人杀害图西人，不仅仅是出于种族仇恨，也是为夺取他们的土地。
In Sudan, drought drove Arabs into the lands of African pastoralists in 2003. The Sudanese government sided with the Arabs and pursued a policy of eliminating the Zaghawa, Masalit and Fur peoples in Darfur and surrounding regions.
2003年，苏丹的旱灾促使阿拉伯人进入非洲游牧民族的领地。苏丹政府站在阿拉伯人一边，采取了消灭达尔富尔及周边地区的扎格哈瓦人(Zaghawa)、马萨利特人(Masalit)和福尔人(Fur)的政策。
Nations in need of land would likely begin with tactfully negotiated leases or purchases; but under conditions of stress or acute need, such agrarian export zones could become fortified colonies, requiring or attracting violence.
需要土地的国家开始可能会就租赁和购买土地进行得体的谈判；但在有压力或有迫切需求的情况下，这种农业土地出口地区有可能成为加强型的殖民地，需要采取、或容易引发暴力手段。
Hitler spread ecological panic by claiming that only land would bring Germany security and by denying the science that promised alternatives to war. By polluting the atmosphere with greenhouse gases, the United States has done more than any other nation to bring about the next ecological panic, yet it is the only country where climate science is still resisted by certain political and business elites. These deniers tend to present the empirical findings of scientists as a conspiracy and question the validity of science — an intellectual stance that is uncomfortably close to Hitler’s.
希特勒在德国传播生态恐慌的方式是，宣称只有土地能给德国带来安全，否定原本可以替代战争解决问题的科学手段。由于制造了大量温室气体，污染了大气，美国在促成第二次生态恐慌方面的责任比任何其他国家都大，但它却是唯一一个气候科学发展仍受到某些政治和商业精英阻拦的国家。这些反对人士倾向于将科学家的实证研究发现当作一种阴谋，并质疑科学的有效性——这种思维与希特勒有着令人不安的近似性。
The full consequences of climate change may reach America only decades after warming wreaks havoc in other regions. And by then it will be too late for climate science and energy technology to make any difference. Indeed, by the time the door is open to the demagogy of ecological panic in the United States, Americans will have spent years spreading climate disaster around the world.
可能要在气候变暖对其他国家带来严重破坏之后，气候变化的后果才会在美国完全显现出来，但那是几十年之后的事。到那个时候，再依靠气候科学家和能源技术扭转局面，就太迟了。事实上，等到生态恐慌的蛊惑言论在美国开始大行其道时，美国人应该已经在全世界散播气候灾难好多年了。
THE European Union, by contrast, takes global warming very seriously, but its existence is under threat. As Africa and the Middle East continue to warm and wars rage, economic migrants and war refugees are making perilous journeys to flee to Europe. In response, European populists have called for the strict enforcement of national borders and the end of the union. Many of these populist parties are supported by Russia, which is openly pursuing a divide-and-conquer policy with the aim of bringing about European disintegration.
相比之下，欧盟对待全球变暖的态度要严肃得多，但它本身也面临生存问题。随着非洲和中东地区持续变暖以及战火的弥漫，经济移民和战争难民都在冒着生命危险向欧洲逃亡。对此，欧洲民粹主义者已经开始呼吁在边境严格执法，并解散欧盟。这些民粹主义政党有不少都是由俄罗斯在背后支持，后者正公开采取一种个个击破的策略，目的就是以让欧洲四分五裂。
Russia’s 2014 intervention in Ukraine has already shattered the peaceful order that Europeans had come to take for granted. The Kremlin, which is economically dependent on the export of hydrocarbons to Europe, is now seeking to make gas deals with individual European states one by one in order to weaken European unity and expand its own influence. Meanwhile, President Vladimir V. Putin waxes nostalgic for the 1930s, while Russian nationalists blame gays, cosmopolitans and Jews for antiwar sentiment. None of this bodes well for Europe’s future — or Russia’s.
2014年俄罗斯干预乌克兰内政，已经摧毁了欧洲人习以为常的和平秩序。在经济上依赖向欧洲出口油气的克里姆林宫，如今正争取和欧洲国家一对一签署天然气协议，以削弱欧盟的整体力量，增强俄罗斯自身的影响力。同时，随着俄罗斯民族主义者将同性恋、世界主义者和犹太人指为反战情绪的源头，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京对1930年代表现出越来越多的怀恋。这些对欧洲未来而言，都不是什么好兆头，对俄罗斯也是如此。
When mass killing is on the way, it won’t announce itself in the language we are familiar with. The Nazi scenario of 1941 will not reappear in precisely the same form, but several of its causal elements have already begun to assemble.
大规模屠杀在酝酿之时，不会以我们熟悉的语言宣称自己的到来。1941年纳粹实施大规模屠杀的情形不会原样重演，但曾经导致它产生的好几项构成因素已经开始集结。
It is not difficult to imagine ethnic mass murder in Africa, which has already happened; or the triumph of a violent totalitarian strain of Islamism in the parched Middle East; or a Chinese play for resources in Africa or Russia or Eastern Europe that involves removing the people already living there; or a growing global ecological panic if America abandons climate science or the European Union falls apart.
我们不难想象非洲发生种族屠杀，而且它已经发生；也不难想象一种残暴的极端伊斯兰主义在干涸的中东大地上取得胜利；或中国为获取非洲、俄罗斯或东欧的资源而将生活在那里的人清除；再或美国将气候科学打入冷宫或欧盟解散后，全球生态恐慌与日俱增的情形。
Today we confront the same crucial choice between science and ideology that Germans once faced. Will we accept empirical evidence and support new energy technologies, or allow a wave of ecological panic to spread across the world?
摆在我们面前的科学与意识形态之间的重要抉择，正是当年德国人所面临的。我们是会接受实证、支持发展新能源技术，还是让一波生态恐慌传遍整个世界？
Denying science imperils the future by summoning the ghosts of the past.
否认科学是在召唤过去的幽魂，进而危及人类的未来。