SEOUL, South Korea — The shadowy woman at the center of President Park Geun-hye’s worst political scandal apologized for her “wrongdoings” on Sunday. Hours later, Park fired her chief of staff and seven other presidential aides in an effort to regain public trust, a day after thousands of South Koreans took to the streets to call for her removal from office.
韩国首尔——周日，处在总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)最严重的政治丑闻中心的神秘女子，为自己的“不当行为”道歉。几小时后，朴槿惠为了重获公众信任，解雇了秘书室室长和其他七名总统助手。一天前，成千上万名韩国人走上街头，要求她下台。
Choi Soon-sil, a longtime associate of Park widely seen here as a shamanlike adviser for the leader, returned to South Korea on Sunday from Europe, where she has been in hiding since the scandal erupted weeks ago. Choi’s lawyer, Lee Gyeong-jae, said she would present herself to prosecutors for questioning on her murky ties with Park, which are at the heart of the president’s troubles.
周日，与朴槿惠相识多年的崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)从欧洲返回韩国。自几周前丑闻曝出后，她一直藏身于欧洲。在韩国，崔顺实普遍被认为是朴槿惠像巫师一般的顾问。她的律师李京在（Lee Gyeong-jae，音）表示，她将就自己与朴槿惠的隐蔽关系主动接受检方的问询。两人的关系在朴槿惠所面临的困境中居于中心位置。
“She apologizes deeply for causing the people humiliation and despair,” Lee said of Choi in a news conference.
“她为给人们造成的屈辱和绝望深表歉意，”李京在在新闻发布会上说到崔顺实时表示。
Lee said she also apologized for “her wrongdoings,” but he did not elaborate. Park has been accused of letting Choi, a private citizen with no security clearance or background in policymaking, advise on crucial state affairs. Choi, 60, has also been accused of using her influence with Park to plant her associates in the government, including the presidential office, and to coerce big businesses to donate millions of dollars each to the two foundations she controls.
李京在称她还为“自己的不当行为”做出道歉，但他未就此做详细说明。朴槿惠被指让未做过安全审查、没有政策制定背景的普通公民崔顺实在国家大事上给自己出主意。现年60岁的崔顺实还被控利用自己与朴槿惠的关系，向包括总统办公室在内的政府机构安插自己的亲信，并强迫大企业向她控制的两个基金会各捐款数百万美元。
On Sunday, Park carried out a major reshuffle of her presidential staff in recognition of “the graveness of the current situation,” her office said.
总统办公室在周日表示，朴槿惠意识到“当前形势的严峻”，对总统身边的工作人员进行了重大调整。
Those dismissed included Ahn Chong-bum, senior presidential secretary for policy coordination, who was accused of collaborating with Choi in pressuring businesses to donate to her foundations. Also fired were three lower-tier aides known as the three gatekeepers for their purported role in controlling who Park met with and what information reached her. All three are considered close to Choi.
遭到解雇的包括负责政策协调的高级总统秘书安钟范(Ahn Chong-bum)。他被控与崔顺实联手向企业施压，要求它们给她的基金会捐款。被免职的还有三名级别较低的助手。据称他们控制着朴槿惠会见哪些人，看到什么信息，因此被称作三大守门人。这三人均被认为与崔顺实关系密切。
Despite the reshuffling, Ms. Park did not replace her aides on foreign policy and national security.
尽管进行了改组，但朴槿惠并未替换自己的外交政策和国家安全事务助手。
Pressure has been mounting on her to overhaul her leadership style and government to regain some of her lost authority. On Sunday, her governing Saenuri Party asked her to form a new cabinet with opposition parties.
要求她为重新获得失去的部分威信而彻底改革领导方式及政府的压力不断增加。周日，她所在的执政党新国家党(Saenuri Party)要求她同反对党一起重新组阁。
Ms. Park’s plummeting political fortunes were dramatized on Saturday when prosecutors raided the homes of a few presidential aides who are believed to be under Ms. Choi’s sway and areaccused of collaborating in influence-peddling. Prosecutors also appeared at the Blue House, Ms. Park’s presidential office and residence in Seoul, the capital, demanding that they be allowed to search aides’ offices there for criminal evidence.
周六，当检方突击检查几名总统助手的住所时，朴槿惠暴跌的政治时运蒙上了戏剧色彩。这些助手据信听命于崔顺实，被控在以权谋私的过程中参与合谋。检方还出现在了朴槿惠位于首尔的总统办公室兼官邸青瓦台，要求允许他们搜查其助手的办公室，寻找罪证。
The Blue House refused them entry, but the prosecutors returned on Sunday, pressing the same demand — a highly unusual move for prosecutors, who have long been accused of being servile political tools of the sitting president.
青瓦台拒绝他们入内，但检方周日重返青瓦台，坚持提出了同样的要求。对检方来说，这是一个极不寻常的举动。他们长期被指奴颜婢膝，是在任总统的政治工具。
Also on Saturday, at a rally in downtown Seoul, thousands marched on the Blue House to chants of “Down with Park Geun-hye!” and “Impeach Park Geun-hye!” Shoving matches erupted when riot police officers blocked the marchers.
同样是在周六，在首尔市中心的一个集会上，成千上万的民众在青瓦台前游行，高呼“朴槿惠下台！”“弹劾朴槿惠！”的口号。防暴警察阻拦游行人群时，双方发生推搡。
Organizers said 30,000 people had attended the demonstration, while the police estimated the crowd at 12,000.
组织者称，有3万人参加了示威游行，但警方估计的人数为1.2万人。
South Koreans are proud of the global economic powerhouse they built from the ruins of the 1950-53 Korean War and the democracy they achieved after decades of brutal rule by military dictators. Those dictators included Ms. Park’s father, Park Chung-hee, who led the country from 1961 until his assassination in 1979.
韩国民众对他们在1950到1953年朝鲜战争的废墟中把国家建设成为全球经济强国，以及在经历了军事独裁者长达数十年的残暴统治后实现民主深以为豪。这些独裁者就包括朴槿惠的父亲朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)。他从1961年开始统治韩国，直至1979年遇刺身亡。
Ms. Park’s scandal is seen as particularly inflammatory because it hurts that pride.
民众认为朴槿惠的丑闻特别令人激愤，因为它损害了这种自豪感。
On Saturday, many demonstrators said they felt ashamed to be South Korean. Speaking to the crowd, Lee Jae-myeong, the mayor of Seongnam, a city just south of Seoul, said the president had humiliated the people by relying on a “shamanlike figure” to handle important state affairs, referring to Ms. Choi.
周六，很多示威者表示他们为身为韩国人感到羞愧。首尔以南的城南市市长李在明(Lee Jae-myeong)在对人群发表讲话时说，总统依靠一个“巫师般的人物”处理重要的国家大事的行为令民众蒙羞；他指的是崔顺实。
“We may be weak, we may be poor, but we have not lost our pride yet,” Mayor Lee said to cheers from the crowd. “President Park has lost her authority as president, and she must step down.”
“我们或许弱小，我们或许贫穷，但我们还没有失去尊严，”李在明的话赢得了人群的欢呼。“朴槿惠失去了她作为总统的威信，她必须下台。”
Little had been known about Ms. Choi, except that she is the daughter of a minor religious cult leader and befriended Ms. Park in the 1970s, when Ms. Park’s father was still in power. Ms. Choi’s father, Choi Tae-min, who died in 1994 at the age of 82, had been accused of manipulating Ms. Park, though Ms. Park has defended him as a patriot and a mentor. Some critics believe that Ms. Choi has inherited her father’s Rasputin-like role in Ms. Park’s life.
除了她是一个小规模的宗教团体领袖之女，并在70年代朴槿惠的父亲仍当权时与朴槿惠成为朋友之外，外界对崔顺实知之甚少。崔顺实的父亲崔太敏(Choi Tae-min)于1994年去世，享年82岁。他被控操纵朴槿惠，不过朴槿惠为他辩护，称他是一位爱国者，是自己的导师。一些批评人士认为，崔顺实继承了她父亲在朴槿惠的生活中所扮演的像拉斯普廷（Rasputin，19世纪末20世纪初，俄国的一名修士和“神医”，因给王子治病而成为沙皇尼古拉二世的宠臣，后因干预朝政被保皇派刺杀——编注）一样的角色。
Major political parties have so far refrained from calling for Ms. Park to step down. Her single five-year term ends in February 2018.
迄今为止，主要政党尚未要求朴槿惠下台。她的五年任期将于2018年2月结束。
All recent South Korean presidents have ended their terms in ignominy, disgraced by scandals that often implicate their children as well. Many South Koreans had hoped that Ms. Park, the country’s first female president, who is unmarried and has no children, would be an exception.
最近几任韩国总统都是不体面地结束了自己的任期，他们的子女常卷进令他们颜面尽失的丑闻。不少韩国人本希望，作为韩国首位女总统，未婚未育的朴槿惠会是一个例外。