On Friday Standard & Poor’s, the bond-rating agency, downgraded France. The move made headlines, with many reports suggesting that France is in crisis. But markets yawned: French borrowing costs, which are near historic lows, barely budged.
债券评级机构标准普尔(Standard & Poor’s)上周五下调了法国的信用评级。这个举动成了热议新闻，很多报道看上去在说法国陷入危机了。但市场只是打了个哈欠：已经接近历史最低的法国借贷成本不为所动。
So what’s going on here? The answer is that S.& P.’s action needs to be seen in the context of the broader politics of fiscal austerity. And I do mean politics, not economics. For the plot against France — I’m being a bit tongue in cheek here, but there really are a lot of people trying to bad-mouth the place — is one clear demonstration that in Europe, as in America, fiscal scolds don’t really care about deficits. Instead, they’re using debt fears to advance an ideological agenda. And France, which refuses to play along, has become the target of incessant negative propaganda.
这到底是怎么回事？答案是标准普尔的举动，需要放在一个财政紧缩政治的大语境下来看待。我说的就是政治，不是经济。这场针对法国的阴谋——我就随口一说，但的确有不少人在抹黑这个国家——清晰地表明欧洲和美国一样，那些对财政骂骂咧咧的人并不是真的在乎赤字，事实上他们会用债务恐惧来推进自己的意识形态企图。法国拒绝就范，因此就不断成为负面政治宣传的靶子。
Let me give you an idea of what we’re talking about. A year ago the magazine The Economist declared France “the time bomb at the heart of Europe,” with problems that could dwarf those of Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy. In January 2013, CNN Money’s senior editor-at-large declared France in “free fall,” a nation “heading toward an economic Bastille.” Similar sentiments can be found all over economic newsletters.
容我介绍一下现在的情况。一年前《经济学人》(The Economist)杂志宣称法国是“欧洲心脏里的定时炸弹”，说希腊、西班牙、葡萄牙和意大利的问题跟它比起来不算什么。2013年1月，CNN财经(CNN Money)的高级特约编辑宣称法国处于“自由落体”状态，说这个国家“正在向着经济坟墓走去”。类似这样的观点在经济新闻通讯里随处可见。
Given such rhetoric, one comes to French data expecting to see the worst. What you find instead is a country experiencing economic difficulties — who isn’t? — but in general performing as well as or better than most of its neighbors, with the admittedly big exception of Germany. Recent French growth has been sluggish, but much better than that of, say, the Netherlands, which is still rated AAA. According to standard estimates, French workers were actually a bit more productive than their German counterparts a dozen years ago — and guess what, they still are.
照着这样的说法，法国的数据应该是最糟糕的。然而你实际看到的数据表明，这是一个经济上正在经历困难的国家——哪国不是呢？——但总的来说和它的大多数邻国一样好，或者更好，当然得承认德国是一个很大的例外。法国的增长最近有些缓慢，但还是比荷兰这样的要强很多，后者的评级仍然是AAA。根据标准的估算，十几年前法国工人的生产力其实还要比德国工人高一些——你知道吗，现在还是。
Meanwhile, French fiscal prospects look distinctly nonalarming. The budget deficit has fallen sharply since 2010, and the International Monetary Fund expects the ratio of debt to G.D.P. to be roughly stable over the next five years.
同时，法国的财政前景明显不需要担忧。自2010年以来，它的预算赤字已经大幅降低，而且国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）预计，债务与GDP的比例将在未来五年内大致保持稳定。
What about the longer-run burden of an aging population? This is a problem in France, as it is in all wealthy nations. But France has a higher birthrate than most of Europe — in part because of government programs that encourage births and ease the lives of working mothers — so that its demographic projections are much better than those of its neighbors, Germany included. Meanwhile, France’s remarkable health care system, which delivers high quality at low cost, is going to be a big fiscal advantage looking forward.
人口老龄化的长期负担又如何呢？与所有富裕国家一样，这在法国也是个问题。但是，法国的出生率比欧洲大多数国家都高，这部分是因为政府实行了一些项目来鼓励生育，并且为有工作的母亲改善生活。所以，法国人口未来的走向比包括德国在内的其他邻国要好得多。此外，法国良好的医疗保健体系——它能够以低廉的成本提供高质量的服务——也能在未来给财政带来很大的好处。
By the numbers, then, it’s hard to see why France deserves any particular opprobrium. So again, what’s going on?
然后从数字上来看，也很难理解为什么法国理应受到什么特别的责难。所以，这究竟是怎么回事呢？
Here’s a clue: Two months ago Olli Rehn, Europe’s commissioner for economic and monetary affairs — and one of the prime movers behind harsh austerity policies — dismissed France’s seemingly exemplary fiscal policy. Why? Because it was based on tax increases rather than spending cuts — and tax hikes, he declared, would “destroy growth and handicap the creation of jobs.”
这里有条线索：两个月前，欧盟负责经济及货币事务的委员——也是严苛财政紧缩政策的主要推手——奥利·瑞恩(Olli Rehn)，否定了法国似乎堪称典范的财政政策。为什么？因为它的基础是增加税收而非减少开支——他宣称，提高税收将“破坏增长，阻碍就业机会的创造”。
In other words, never mind what I said about fiscal discipline, you’re supposed to be dismantling the safety net.
换言之，不管我关于财政纪律都说过什么，你们都应该拆掉自己的社会安全网。
S.& P.’s explanation of its downgrade, though less clearly stated, amounted to the same thing: France was being downgraded because “the French government’s current approach to budgetary and structural reforms to taxation, as well as to product, services and labor markets, is unlikely to substantially raise France’s medium-term growth prospects.” Again, never mind the budget numbers, where are the tax cuts and deregulation?
标准普尔对降级的解释虽然不那么清楚，但其含义基本一样：法国之所以被降级，是因为“法国政府目前针对税收，以及产品、服务和劳动力市场做出的预算和结构改革，不太可能大幅度改善法国的中期增长前景”。这又是在说，别管预算数字如何，法国都要减税、放松监管。
You might think that Mr. Rehn and S.& P. were basing their demands on solid evidence that spending cuts are in fact better for the economy than tax increases. But they weren’t. In fact, research at the I.M.F. suggests that when you’re trying to reduce deficits in a recession, the opposite is true: temporary tax hikes do much less damage than spending cuts.
你或许以为，雷恩和标准普尔的要求建立在可靠的证据之上，那些证据表明，削减开支其实比增加税收对经济更有利。但事实并非如此。其实，IMF的研究表明，想要在衰退期减少赤字，采取相反的做法才对：暂时提高税收比削减开支造成的伤害小很多。
Oh, and when people start talking about the wonders of “structural reform,” take it with a large heaping of salt. It’s mainly a code phrase for deregulation — and the evidence on the virtues of deregulation is decidedly mixed. Remember, Ireland received high praise for its structural reforms in the 1990s and 2000s; in 2006 George Osborne, now Britain’s chancellor of the Exchequer, called it a “shining example.” How did that turn out?
还有，要是有人开始谈论“结构改革”的种种奇效，千万不要轻信。那只是放松监管的代称罢了——而且并无证据表明放松监管一定能带来好处。还记得吗？20世纪90年代和21世纪的头10年，爱尔兰因为结构改革而得到了高度赞扬；2006年，英国财政大臣乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)还称其为“光辉榜样”。可是结果如何呢？
If all this sounds familiar to American readers, it should. U.S. fiscal scolds turn out, almost invariably, to be much more interested in slashing Medicare and Social Security than they are in actually cutting deficits. Europe’s austerians are now revealing themselves to be pretty much the same. France has committed the unforgivable sin of being fiscally responsible without inflicting pain on the poor and unlucky. And it must be punished.
如果说这段情节让美国读者听来很耳熟，那是因为的确应该耳熟。事实证明，美国那些抨击财政监管的人，几乎总是对缩减联邦医疗保险(Medicare)和社会安全福利(Social Security)的规模更感兴趣，而不是削减赤字。目前看来，欧洲的紧缩主义者与他们非常相似。法国在没有让穷人和不幸者承受痛苦的情况下负起了财政责任，这简直是犯下了不可饶恕的过错。它必须受到惩罚。