GRANADA, Colo. — Most days, the only sounds in this desolate place in the southeastern part of the state are the skitter of rattlesnakes and the rustle of sagebrush in the wind.
科罗拉多州格拉纳达——多数时候，在科罗拉多州东南部这片荒芜之地，唯一能听到的声音是响尾蛇的滑行声，以及鼠尾草在风中的沙沙声。
But on Saturday a car stopped in the sand, and out stepped Bob Fuchigami, 85, who had come to tell the story of his imprisonment, 73 years before, at an internment camp here that came to be known as Amache.
然而上周六，一辆车停在了沙地上，从车里走出来的是85岁的鲍勃·渊上(Bob Fuchigami)。他来到这里是为了讲述自己73年前被囚禁在当地阿马奇集中营(Amache)的故事。
In 1942, just after the attack on Pearl Harbor, roughly 120,000 people of Japanese descent were evicted from their homes and sent to live in camps around the country. About two-thirds of them were American citizens. At the time, the federal government called the move necessary to protect the West Coast from sabotage.
1942年，在珍珠港遇袭后不久，约12万日裔被逐出家园，驱赶到全美各地的集中营。这些人中约有三分之二是美国公民。联邦政府当时表示，此举对于保护西岸免受破坏十分必要。
“It was a mile square full of barracks,” Mr. Fuchigami said as he whacked through a thicket of sage in search of the remains of his hut, 7G. “They shouldn’t have been here,” he said of the people who lived inside. “It was just one colossal mistake.”
“那是一个盖满了棚屋的一英里见方的场地，”渊上一边说着，一边用力拨开鼠尾草丛，寻找他居住过的编号为7G的棚屋的遗迹。“他们本不应该被赶到这里，”他提到住在集中营的人时说。“那是一个天大的错误。”
For years, people who were held at Camp Amache have made a pilgrimage to the detention center on the second-to-last Saturday in May, bumping down a gravel road to share what they remember about their time behind the barbed wire. In the past, busloads of former detainees have attended. But this year only two people who had lived here could make the trek: Mr. Fuchigami and a woman named Jane Okubo.
多年来，每到5月的倒数第二个星期六，曾经被关在阿马奇集中营的人都会到这里来，在沙地上颠簸行进后，分享他们对铁丝网内生活的记忆。过去，曾被关押的人员会一车车地聚集到此。但今年，只有两个当年的居民能够踏上这趟旅程：一个是渊上，另一个则是名为简·小洼(Jane Olubo)的女士。
“We’re dying off,” said Ms. Okubo, 71, who lives in Sacramento.
“我们在相继离开人世，”目前居住在萨克拉门托的71岁的小洼说。
The two were accompanied by a group of about 70 others who had come to support them. During a luncheon, an organizer asked Ms. Okubo to speak about her detention. “I don’t have any memories,” she said apologetically. “I was born here at Amache.”
陪同他们两个的有大约70名支持者。在午餐会上，一名组织者请小洼谈谈在集中营里的经历。“我什么也不记得了，”她抱歉地说。“我是在阿马奇出生的。”
Amache was the smallest of 10 internment camps, reaching a peak population of just over 7,000. In recent years, bigger camps like Tule Lake (which grew to a population of 18,789) and Manzanar (which had a peak population 10,046) have received large numbers of visitors, and their stories continue to be recounted in classrooms and in books like the 1973 memoir “Farewell to Manzanar,” by James D. Houston and Jeanne Wakatsuki Houston.
阿马奇是10个集中营中规模最小的，人口最多的时候刚刚超过7000。近年来，图利湖（Tule Lake，其人数增长到了18789）和曼赞纳（Manzanar，巅峰时期人口为10046）等规模更大的集中营接待了大批访客，它们的故事得以继续在课堂和书本中讲述，比如詹姆斯·D·休斯敦(James D. Houston)和让娜·若月·休斯敦(Jeanne Wakatsuki Houston)合著的回忆录《永别了，曼赞纳》(Farewell to Manzanar)。
But few in Colorado even know Amache existed. The lone comprehensive book on the camp is out of print. And survivors say that as they age and their peers die, their experiences are falling deeper into the footnotes of history.
但是，就连知道阿马奇存在的科罗拉多人都屈指可数。唯一全面讲述这座集中营故事的书现已绝版。幸存者称，随着他们的老去，以及同辈的逝世，他们的经历正被覆盖上越来越厚的历史尘埃。
Amache (pronounced ah-motch-EE) sits at the edge of Granada, a farming community of 500 people. It is a four-hour drive south from Denver, through ranch land and past gas stations.
阿马奇位于格拉纳达边缘，是一个由500人组成的农业社区。从丹佛开车往南四小时方可到达，中途要穿过牧场，经过几座加油站。
The camp was named for a Cheyenne princess who had married a local cattle baron, and it was also known as the Granada War Relocation Center.
这座集中营以嫁给了当地养牛大亨的一名夏延族原住民公主命名，又被称作“格拉纳达战争收容中心”(Granada War Relocation Center)。
Today, the space where its residents once lived is an unruly carpet of prickly shrubs and wildflowers that is dotted with hints of its past life: shattered porcelain, exposed rebar, slabs of concrete and the occasional ribbon of barbed wire.
如今，集中营居民曾经住过的地方，长满了多刺的灌木和野花，中间仅有星星点点的过往的痕迹：破碎的瓷器、暴露在外的钢筋、混凝土板，偶尔还能看到条状的铁丝网。
There are almost no buildings. When the final detainees left on Oct. 15, 1945, the camp’s roughly 550 structures were auctioned off and moved, dispersed just like their inhabitants.
这里已几乎没有建筑物。1945年10月15日，当最后一批关在那里的人员离开的时候，集中营的大约550栋建筑即被拍卖和转移，像曾经住在这里的人一样消失了。
Many residents, like Mr. Fuchigami, had come from California.
包括鲍勃·渊上在内的许多居民来自加州。
Mr. Fuchigami, who now lives near Denver, was born in the United States. He was 12 when his family of 10 people left its walnut and peach tree farm outside Yuba City. The family leased — and later lost — its farm to a white man, and took up residence in two rooms in 7G.
他出生在美国，目前住在丹佛附近。当他12岁的时候，一家10口人离开了尤巴城外的胡桃和桃树种植农场。他的家人把农场租给了一个白人，然后住进了7G的两个房间。后来，这座农场被这个白人据为己有。
A naked bulb hung from the rafters of each tin-walled space, and during the first winter the temperature dropped to 22 degrees below zero.
每个由锡制墙面隔开的空间里，都只有一颗光秃秃的灯泡悬挂在屋梁上。在那里度过的第一个冬天，气温降到了零下22华氏度（合零下30摄氏度）。
In some ways, the detention camp operated like a typical American city. There were schools, a fire department, a Boy Scout troop and a semiweekly newspaper. It had businesses for detainees and contributed to several industries at large, including pumping out thousands of war propaganda posters. The camp even had its own football team, the Amache Indians.
从某些方面来看，集中营的运行与一座典型的美国城市类似。那里有学校、消防部门、童子军，还有一份报纸，每周出两期。它为在押人员安排了业务，还大致为几个行业贡献了力量，比如印制了成千上万份的战争宣传海报。这座集中营甚至拥有自己的橄榄球队——阿马奇印第安人队(Amache Indians)。
Four hundred fifteen babies were born. And nearly 1,000 residents entered military service, the highest percentage of any internment camp, according to Robert Harvey, the author of the out-of-print book, “Amache.”
共有415名婴儿在营中出生。前述绝版图书《阿马奇》的作者罗伯特·哈维(Robert Harvey)表示，共有近1000名阿马奇居民进入军队服役，比例在所有集中营中最高。
“But it wasn’t freedom,” Ms. Okubo said. “To be swept up and have two suitcases of stuff, and go to an area you’ve never known before, with the sandstorms coming through the cracks.”
“但这并不等于自由，”小洼说。“被赶出家门，带着两箱行李，去往一个你以前从不知道的地方，沙尘暴每天都会从墙缝里吹进来。”
Mr. Fuchigami recalled the armed guards, and the floodlights that interrupted each night’s sleep. At Amache, he said, he became intensely jealous of a kite he had fashioned from sticks and newspapers. “A kite can fly wherever it wants to go,” he said, noting the way it soared over the barbed wire as he remained inside.
鲍勃·渊上想起了武装警卫，以及每晚妨碍睡眠的探照灯。他表示，在阿马奇集中营，他越来越嫉妒自己用小棍和报纸做成的风筝，他说，“风筝可以飞到任何它想去的地方。”他指的是他在集中营时，风筝升空飞跃铁丝网的情景。
“There was always this feeling,” he said, “well, what are we in for? Why are we in here? What are they going to do to us tomorrow or the next day?”
“一直有这样的感觉，”他说。“我们在这里做什么？我们为何被关在这里？他们今后会对我们做什么？”
Mr. Fuchigami has attended the pilgrimage each year since about 2006. This year, he was accompanied by his wife, daughter, son-in-law and granddaughter, Sejal Gordon, 10. He was determined to show Sejal the camp.
大约从2006年开始，鲍勃·渊上每年都会参加纪念之旅。今年，他的妻子、女儿、女婿和10岁的外孙女塞亚·戈登(Sejal Gordon)陪他一起前来。他决定让塞亚看看这个集中营。
It took them nearly an hour — and the assistance of an archaeologist who just happened to be passing through — to identify the spot where he had once slept.
在一名碰巧路过的考古学家的帮助下，他们花了将近一个小时找到了他从前睡觉的地方。
“This wind is very familiar to me,” he said, standing by the remains of the barracks as gusts blew through his white hair.
狂风吹过白发时，他说，“这里的风对我来说很熟悉。”
Amache, while not nearly as well known as camps like Manzanar and Tule Lake, in California, has not been entirely forgotten.
在加州，虽然阿马奇集中营不如曼赞纳和图利湖集中营有名，但它尚未被完全遗忘。
John Hopper is a teacher, a sports coach and the principal at Granada Public Schools. In 1993, he decided to make a class project out of Camp Amache.
约翰·霍珀(John Hopper)是一名教师、运动教练，格拉纳达公立学校(Granada Public Schools)的校长。1993年，他决定开展与阿马奇集中营有关的课堂任务。
Since then, his students have interviewed former internees, gathered documents, excavated portions of the camp and built a small museum, often partnering with other groups. In 2006, the site became a National Historic Landmark.
从那时起，他的学生访问曾被拘禁的人，收集资料，并在集中营的部分区域进行挖掘，建起一个小型展馆，他们常常与其他组织展开合作。2006年，这个地方成为一个国家历史名胜。
One of the students’ most ambitious projects involves chasing down the camp’s scattered buildings and returning them to the camp. In 2014, they helped bring back a water tank and reconstruct a guard tower.
学生开展的最具雄心的项目涉及找出该集中营分散的建筑物与设施，使其恢复原状。2014年，他们帮助找回一个水槽，并重建了一个守卫塔。
This June, they will lay the foundation for a barracks building they plan to move from a farm in Stonington, Colo., about 60 miles south.
今年6月，他们将为一处营房奠基，他们计划将位于科罗拉多州斯托宁顿农场的营房搬来这里。那个农场位于该集中营以南60英里（约合100公里）的地方。
The goal, said Mr. Hopper, 52, is to create a museum where people can sleep over and experience camp life. “You need a building so they understand what it was like,” he said.
52岁的霍珀表示，这个项目的目的是创建一个展览馆，人们可以在这个展览馆过夜，感受集中营的生活。他说，“需要有一个营房，这样人们才会了解当时的生活。”