PARIS — In an unexpected move, President François Hollande of France granted a full pardon on Wednesday to a woman who had been sentenced to prison for murdering her husband after decades of domestic abuse.
巴黎——周三，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)出人意料地赦免了一名妇女的全部刑罚。这名妇女在忍受了几十年家暴后将丈夫杀死，因而遭到监禁。
The woman, Jacqueline Sauvage, was found guilty by a criminal court in 2014 of shooting her husband, Norbert Marot, three times in the back with a hunting rifle in 2012. She was sentenced to 10 years in prison.
这名女子名叫杰奎琳·索瓦热(Jacqueline Sauvage)，2012年她用猎枪从背后向丈夫诺贝特·马罗特(Norbert Marot)开了三枪，2014年刑事法庭判定她罪名成立，处以10年监禁。
“The president of the republic has estimated that Ms. Sauvage’s place was no longer in prison, but with her family,” said a statement from the president’s office announcing her full pardon. Mr. Hollande had commuted part of her sentence in January.
“总统认为索瓦热不应该待在监狱，而是应该与家人团聚，”总统办公室在一份声明中宣布赦免她的全部刑期。奥朗德已经在1月份减轻了她的部分刑罚。
Ms. Sauvage was released from a prison near Paris within hours of the announcement.
声明发布数小时之后，索瓦热从巴黎附近的监狱释放。
“I’m deeply shaken, I wasn’t expecting it,” Carole Marot, one of Ms. Sauvage’s daughters, told French radio. “An infinite thanks to the president of the republic.”
“这让我深感震动，我没有想到会这样，”索瓦热的女儿卡罗尔·马罗特(Carole Marot)对法国广播说。“无比感谢共和国总统。”
Ms. Sauvage had spent more than four years in prison, and became a symbol of domestic abuse in France. Violence against women occurs at a higher level in France than in Europe over all, according to a 2014 report by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
索瓦热已经在监狱待了四年多，在法国，她成为了家暴的象征。欧盟促进基本人权署(European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights)2014年的一份报告显示，在法国，针对妇女的暴力行为高于欧洲整体水平。
Her case led to a fierce debate about when self-defense is justified. At her trial, her lawyers argued that she had shot her husband after enduring years of violence.
她的案件引发了一场激烈辩论，对于什么时候进行自卫是合理的，人们看法不一。在这个案件的审判中，她的律师表示，她是在持续多年遭受暴力之后枪杀了丈夫。
The couple’s three daughters testified that their father had physically and sexually abused them as teenagers.
这对夫妇的三个女儿作证说，她们在十多岁时遭受过父亲的殴打和性虐待。
Ms. Sauvage first attracted public attention when a petition calling on the president to grant her a full pardon collected more than 400,000 signatures.
索瓦热最初吸引公众的注意，是因为要求总统赦免她的请愿书收集了逾40万个签名。
The call resonated deeply across the country. Committees supported by prominent political figures like Mayor Anne Hidalgo of Paris helped persuade Mr. Hollande in January to commute part of her sentence. That partial pardon enabled Ms. Sauvage to apply for parole.
这个请求在整个法国引起了广泛反响。在巴黎市长安妮·伊达尔戈(Anne Hidalgo)等知名政界人士支持的一个委员会的努力下，奥朗德今年1月减免了索瓦热的部分刑罚，这样她就可以申请假释了。
A court rejected her parole application, and Ms. Sauvage appealed that decision, but a court rejected her appeal last month.
法院驳回了她的假释申请，索瓦热提起上诉，但上个月法院驳回了她的上诉。
This month, Ms. Sauvage’s daughters sent Mr. Hollande a letter asking him to grant her a full pardon.
本月，索瓦热的女儿致信奥朗德，请求赦免其全部刑罚。
Mr. Hollande’s announcement was praised across the political spectrum, but some magistrates questioned the timing of his decision and accused him of flouting the independence of the judiciary.
奥朗德的这个声明赢得了政治人士的赞扬，但一些治安官对他做出这个决定的时机提出质疑，并指责他藐视司法机关的独立性。
“He could have granted that pardon months ago,” Marie-Jane Ody, the vice president of a union representing magistrates, told French radio. “Why didn’t he do it the first time?”
“他本来可以在几个月前就这么赦免她，”治安官联合会副主席玛丽-简·奥迪(Marie-Jane Ody)对法国电台说。“当时他为什么不这么做呢？”