Four years ago, some of us watched with a mixture of incredulity and horror as elite discussion of economic policy went completely off the rails. Over the course of just a few months, influential people all over the Western world convinced themselves and each other that budget deficits were an existential threat, trumping any and all concern about mass unemployment. The result was a turn to fiscal austerity that deepened and prolonged the economic crisis, inflicting immense suffering.
四年前，我们中的一些人在怀疑和震惊中，眼看着精英阶层对经济政策的讨论完全偏离正轨。仅几个月时间，整个西方世界有影响力人士都说服了自己和彼此，认为预算赤字是一种真实存在的威胁，对大规模失业的担忧完全无法与之相提并论。结果，政府采取了财政紧缩措施，这种做法深化并延长了经济危机，带来了无尽的痛苦。
And now it’s happening again. Suddenly, it seems as if all the serious people are telling each other that despite high unemployment there’s hardly any “slack” in labor markets — as evidenced by a supposed surge in wages — and that the Federal Reserve needs to start raising interest rates very soon to head off the danger of inflation.
如今，这种情况又出现了。突然间，似乎每一个有分量的人物都在告诉彼此，尽管失业率居高不下，劳动力市场却没有出现任何“不景气”——传说中的工资上涨就是证据——美联储需要马上开始上调利率，从而遏制通胀危险。
To be fair, those making the case for monetary tightening are more thoughtful and less overtly political than the archons of austerity who drove the last wrong turn in policy. But the advice they’re giving could be just as destructive.
公平地说，与引导了上一次错误政策转向的那些紧缩政策的支持者相比，这些呼吁收紧货币政策的人们考虑得更加周全，也没有那么大的政治动机。但他们提供的建议可能具有同样大的破坏性。
O.K., where is this coming from?
好吧，这次的想法是怎么来的？
The starting point for this turn in elite opinion is the assertion that wages, after stagnating for years, have started to rise rapidly. And it’s true that one popular measure of wages has indeed picked up, with an especially large bump last month.
精英观点这一转变的起点，是工资水平在停滞了多年之后已经开始迅速增长。的确，衡量工资水平的一个常用指标出现了上涨，而上个月的增幅尤其明显。
But that bump is probably a snow-related statistical illusion. As economists at Goldman Sachs have pointed out, average wages normally jump in bad weather — not because anyone’s wages actually rise, but because the workers idled by snow and storms tend to be less well-paid than those who aren’t affected.
但这可能是暴风雪造成的数据上的假象。正如高盛(Goldman Saches)的经济师们所说的那样，在天气恶劣的时期，平均工资水平通常会上升——这不是因为真的有人涨了工资，而是因为，因暴风雪赋闲在家的人们的工资，往往低于那些工作不受影响的人。
Beyond that, we have multiple measures of wages, and only one of them is showing a notable uptick. It’s far from clear that the alleged wage acceleration is even happening.
此外，我们有很多衡量工资水平的指标，但只有一个指标明显增长。我们所说的工资上涨是否真实发生了，根本不确定。
And what’s wrong with rising wages, anyway? In the past, wage increases of around 4 percent a year — more than twice the current rate — have been consistent with low inflation. And there’s a very good case for raising the Fed’s inflation target, which would mean seeking faster wage growth, say 5 percent or 6 percent per year. Why? Because even the International Monetary Fund now warns against the dangers of “lowflation”: too low an inflation rate puts the economy at risk of Japanification, of getting caught in a trap of economic stagnation and intractable debt.
何况，工资上涨又怎么了？过去，工资水平大约每年增长4%——是目前速度的两倍还多——一直与低通胀保持一致。这很好地证明了美联储应该提高通胀目标，这意味着寻求让工资增速提高，比如每年5%或6%。为什么？因为即使是国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)如今也对“低通胀”风险提出了警告：通胀率过低可能会让美国重蹈日本的覆辙，受困于经济停滞和棘手债务。
Over all, then, while it’s possible to argue that we’re running out of labor slack, it’s also possible to argue the opposite, and either way the prudent thing would surely be to wait: Wait until there’s solid evidence of rising wages, then wait some more until wage growth is at least back to precrisis levels and preferably higher.
那么，总地来说，我们正在走出劳力市场淡季是有可能的，但情况同样有可能恰恰相反，而无论是哪种情况，最谨慎的做法无疑是等待：等到有充分证据证明工资水平在上升，然后继续等，直到工资增速至少回到危机前的水平，最好比那还要高。
Yet for some reason there’s a growing drumbeat of demands that we not wait, that we get ready to raise interest rates right away or at least very soon. What’s that about?
然而，由于某种原因，越来越多人大声呼吁我们不要等待，而是立即或至少在近期提高利率。这又是为什么？
Part of the answer, I’d submit, is that for some people it’s always 1979. That is, they’re eternally vigilant against the danger of a runaway wage-price spiral, and somehow they haven’t noticed that nothing like that has happened for decades. Maybe it’s a generational thing. Maybe it’s because a 1970s-style crisis fits their ideological preconceptions, but the phantom menace of stagflation still has an outsized influence on economic debate.
我认为，一个原因是，有些人一直活在1979年。也就是说，他们永远警惕着工资-物价的螺旋形上涨，不知怎么，他们就是注意不到，这种情况几十年来从未出现过。这也许就是那一代人的问题。也许是因为上世纪70年代的危机符合他们意识形态上的成见，但对通胀威胁的幻觉仍然对经济讨论有着异常大的影响力。
Then there’s sado-monetarism: the sense, all too common among in banking circles, that inflicting pain is ipso facto good. There are some people and institutions — for example, the Basel-based Bank for International Settlements — that always want to see interest rates go up. Their rationale is ever-changing — it’s commodity prices; no, it’s financial stability; no, it’s wages — but the recommended policy is always the same.
还有施虐货币论(sado-monetarism)：这种态度在银行业的圈子里十分常见，它认为，施加痛苦实际上是好事。一些个人和机构——比如位于巴塞尔的国际清算银行(Bank for International Settlements)——永远希望利率增长。他们的理由变来变去——是大宗商品价格；不，是金融市场稳定；不，是工资水平——但政策建议永远不变。