One lesson from recent economic troubles has been the usefulness of history. Just as the crisis was unfolding, the Harvard economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff — who unfortunately became famous for their worst work — published a brilliant book with the sarcastic title “This Time Is Different.” Their point, of course, was that there is a strong family resemblance among crises. Indeed, historical parallels — not just to the 1930s, but to Japan in the 1990s, Britain in the 1920s, and more — have been vital guides to the present.
从最近的经济问题中可以学到的一点是历史的用处。就在危机逐步扩大之时，哈佛大学(Harvard)经济学家卡门·莱因哈特(Carmen Reinhart)和肯尼斯·罗格夫(Kenneth Rogoff)出版了一本出色的书，书名充满讽刺，叫做《这次不一样》(This Time Is Different)。（很可惜这两位作者却是因为他们最糟糕的作品出的名。）当然，他们在书中的观点是历次危机之间有很强的家族相似性。的确，历史上的历次危机，不只是20世纪30年代的危机，还有20世纪90年代的日本，20世纪20年代的英国等等，对当下的危机都是关键的借鉴。
Yet economies do change over time, and sometimes in fundamental ways. So what’s really different about America in the 21st century?
然而经济的确会随着时间转变而改变，而且有时改变的幅度很大。那么21世纪的美国究竟有哪些实质的不同呢？
The most significant answer, I’d suggest, is the growing importance of monopoly rents: profits that don’t represent returns on investment, but instead reflect the value of market dominance. Sometimes that dominance seems deserved, sometimes not; but, either way, the growing importance of rents is producing a new disconnect between profits and production and may be a factor prolonging the slump.
我想说，最重要的一个就是垄断租金(monopoly rent)的重要性越来越高。垄断租金这种收益并不反映投资回报，而是反映市场支配地位的价值。有时候这种支配地位似乎是应得的，有时候则不是。但无论怎样，垄断租金的重要性越来越高，反映了利润与生产环节之间新的脱节现象，或许也是经济持续低迷的一个原因。
To see what I’m talking about, consider the differences between the iconic companies of two different eras: General Motors in the 1950s and 1960s, and Apple today.
要想知道我说的意思，请思考一下两个不同时代的标志性企业，它们之间的不同：20世纪50、60年代的通用汽车(General Motors)，以及当下的苹果公司(Apple)。
Obviously, G.M. in its heyday had a lot of market power. Nonetheless, the company’s value came largely from its productive capacity: it owned hundreds of factories and employed around 1 percent of the total nonfarm work force.
通用汽车在如日中天的时候显然曾拥有巨大的市场势力。尽管如此，这家企业的价值在很大程度上来自于它的生产能力：它拥有数百家工厂，雇佣了约1%的非农业劳动力。
Apple, by contrast, seems barely tethered to the material world. Depending on the vagaries of its stock price, it’s either the highest-valued or the second-highest-valued company in America, but it employs less than 0.05 percent of our workers. To some extent, that’s because it has outsourced almost all its production overseas. But the truth is that the Chinese aren’t making that much money from Apple sales either. To a large extent, the price you pay for an iWhatever is disconnected from the cost of producing the gadget. Apple simply charges what the traffic will bear, and given the strength of its market position, the traffic will bear a lot.
与之相对比，苹果却似乎全然不受物质世界的限制。随着股价的波动，它要么是美国市值最高的企业，要么是市值第二高的企业，然而它却只雇用了我们不到0.05%的劳动力。在某种程度上，这是因为它几乎把所有的生产环节都外包到了海外。可实际上，中国也没有从苹果产品的销售中赚到多少钱，因为很大程度上，你购买“i什么东西”所付的价钱，与制造那台设备的成本是没有关系的。苹果只要开出消费者愿意承受的价钱就行，而考虑到苹果的市场影响力，消费者愿意承受很高的价钱。
Again, I’m not making a moral judgment here. You can argue that Apple earned its special position — although I’m not sure how many would make a similar claim for Microsoft, which made huge profits for many years, let alone for the financial industry, which is also marked by a lot of what look like monopoly rents, and these days accounts for roughly 30 percent of total corporate profits. Anyway, whether corporations deserve their privileged status or not, the economy is affected, and not in a good way, when profits increasingly reflect market power rather than production.
重申一下，我在这里可不是在做道德评价。你可以认为苹果现在的特殊地位是它赢得的，不过我可不确定有多少人会对微软公司(Microsoft)作出同样的评价，微软在很多年时间里赚到了巨额的利润；更不用问会有多少人这样评价金融业了，后者赚到的很多钱也类似垄断租金，而且目前金融业的利润约占企业总利润的30%。无论企业的特权地位是不是应得的，当利润越来越多地反映市场势力，而非生产力时，整体经济都会受到影响，而且是负面的影响。
Here’s an example. As many economists have lately been pointing out, these days the old story about rising inequality, in which it was driven by a growing premium on skill, has lost whatever relevance it may have had. Since around 2000, the big story has, instead, been one of a sharp shift in the distribution of income away from wages in general, and toward profits. But here’s the puzzle: Since profits are high while borrowing costs are low, why aren’t we seeing a boom in business investment? And, no, investment isn’t depressed because President Obama has hurt the feelings of business leaders or because they’re terrified by the prospect of universal health insurance.
我来举一个例子。过去解释不平等加剧的老说法是，越来越高的技能价值加剧了不平等。但就像许多经济学家最近指出的，无论这种解释过去有过多大的意义，现在都已经失去了其相关性。从2000年左右开始，最重要的问题就已经成了，收入分配发生了某种剧烈的转变，从工资转向了利润。但蹊跷的是，既然利润很高，而借贷成本很低，我们为什么没有看到企业投资的巨大增长？而且，投资之所以受到了抑制，并不是因为奥巴马总统伤害了商界领袖的感情，也不是因为普遍医保的前景吓到了他们。
Well, there’s no puzzle here if rising profits reflect rents, not returns on investment. A monopolist can, after all, be highly profitable yet see no good reason to expand its productive capacity. And Apple again provides a case in point: It is hugely profitable, yet it’s sitting on a giant pile of cash, which it evidently sees no need to reinvest in its business.
如果利润提高反映的是租金，而不是投资回报，这里的蹊跷就迎刃而解了。毕竟，垄断者可以一边赚取高昂的利润，一边又觉得没有理由扩大制造能力。苹果又一次提供了很好的例证：它盈利巨大，可是却坐拥巨额现金，显然认为自己并不需要将它们重新投入业务经营当中。
Or to put it differently, rising monopoly rents can and arguably have had the effect of simultaneously depressing both wages and the perceived return on investment.
换句话说，垄断租金的上涨可以同时抑制工资和可见的投资回报，而且有理由说，这种效果已经产生了。
You might suspect that this can’t be good for the broader economy, and you’d be right. If household income and hence household spending is held down because labor gets an ever-smaller share of national income, while corporations, despite soaring profits, have little incentive to invest, you have a recipe for persistently depressed demand. I don’t think this is the only reason our recovery has been so weak — weak recoveries are normal after financial crises — but it’s probably a contributory factor.
如果你认为这对宏观经济不好，那么你就说对了。如果由于劳动力在国民收入中分得的份额不断变小，家庭收入受到抑制，进而家庭开支也受到抑制，而与此同时企业尽管利润高涨，但却没有投资的动力，那么这就会使需求长期受到抑制。我不认为这是美国经济复苏如此乏力的唯一原因，毕竟在金融危机后复苏乏力是正常的，但它很可能是一个因素。
Just to be clear, nothing I’ve said here makes the lessons of history irrelevant. In particular, the widening disconnect between profits and production does nothing to weaken the case for expansionary monetary and fiscal policy as long as the economy stays depressed. But the economy is changing, and in future columns I’ll try to say something about what that means for policy.
澄清一下，我在这里所说的并不会让历史的教训显得无关宏旨。具体而言，即使利润与生产之间的脱节越来越严重，也不能否认只要经济仍然受到抑制，就应该采取扩张性的货币和财政政策。然而当下的经济正在转变，我会在未来的专栏文章里试着阐述这对政策意味着什么。