Rising inequality isn’t a new concern. Oliver Stone’s movie “Wall Street,” with its portrayal of a rising plutocracy insisting that greed is good, was released in 1987. But politicians, intimidated by cries of “class warfare,” have shied away from making a major issue out of the ever-growing gap between the rich and the rest.
不平等的加剧不算什么新问题。奥利弗·斯通(Oliver Stone)在1987年发行的电影《华尔街》(Wall Street)描写了一个坚称贪婪是好事的新兴富豪阶层。但被“阶级战争”的呼叫声吓倒的政客们，不敢把不断加剧的贫富差距当成什么大事情来说。
That may, however, be changing. We can argue about the significance of Bill de Blasio’s victory in the New York mayoral race or of Elizabeth Warren’s endorsement of Social Security expansion. And we have yet to see whether President Obama’s declaration that inequality is “the defining challenge of our age” will translate into policy changes. Still, the discussion has shifted enough to produce a backlash from pundits arguing that inequality isn’t that big a deal.
不过，这一点可能会有所改变。针对比尔·德布拉西奥(Bill de Blasio)在纽约市长竞选中的胜利，或伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)对扩大社会安全福利范围的认可，我们可以就其重要性展开辩论。而且我们还没有看到奥巴马总统所宣称的不平等是“我们这个时代的决定性挑战”在政策变化中有所体现。然而讨论的大势已经发生很大扭转，足以让那些声称不平等没什么大不了的专家颜面无光了。
They’re wrong.
他们错了。
The best argument for putting inequality on the back burner is the depressed state of the economy. Isn’t it more important to restore economic growth than to worry about how the gains from growth are distributed?
把不平等问题搁置一旁的最佳理由是萧条的经济状况。让经济恢复增长，难道不应该比担心增长收益的分配问题更要紧吗？
Well, no. First of all, even if you look only at the direct impact of rising inequality on middle-class Americans, it is indeed a very big deal. Beyond that, inequality probably played an important role in creating our economic mess, and has played a crucial role in our failure to clean it up.
不是的。别的不说，光是看看不平等加剧对中产阶级美国人构成的直接影响，就知道这其实是件大事。除此之外，不平等可能在我们的经济乱象形成中起到了重要作用，也和我们在事后补救中遭遇的失败有着至关重要的联系。
Start with the numbers. On average, Americans remain a lot poorer today than they were before the economic crisis. For the bottom 90 percent of families, this impoverishment reflects both a shrinking economic pie and a declining share of that pie. Which mattered more? The answer, amazingly, is that they’re more or less comparable — that is, inequality is rising so fast that over the past six years it has been as big a drag on ordinary American incomes as poor economic performance, even though those years include the worst economic slump since the 1930s.
先来说数据。平均来看，美国人现在依然比经济危机之前穷得多。对底层90%的家庭来说，这种贫困不仅反映出整个经济蛋糕变小了，也表明他们在其中分到的比例在减小。两者中哪个更紧要？令人惊讶的是，答案是两者基本上差不多——就是说，不平等的加剧速度之快，在过去六年里对普通美国人收入形成的牵制力，已经和糟糕经济状况带来的牵制力差不多大了，尽管这六年里包括了一次自上世纪30年代以来最严重的经济滑坡。
And if you take a longer perspective, rising inequality becomes by far the most important single factor behind lagging middle-class incomes.
如果把眼光再放宽一些，你会发现不平等加剧已经成为导致中产阶级收入落后的最重要因素。
Beyond that, when you try to understand both the Great Recession and the not-so-great recovery that followed, the economic and above all political impacts of inequality loom large.
此外，当你在思考大衰退及此后不怎么大的复苏时，不平等带来的经济以及最终的政治影响也令人担忧。
It’s now widely accepted that rising household debt helped set the stage for our economic crisis; this debt surge coincided with rising inequality, and the two are probably related (although the case isn’t ironclad). After the crisis struck, the continuing shift of income away from the middle class toward a small elite was a drag on consumer demand, so that inequality is linked to both the economic crisis and the weakness of the recovery that followed.
现在已经得到广泛认同的一点是，家庭债务增长给我们的经济危机埋下了伏笔；债务增长和不平等加剧是同时发生的，两者可能相关（不过这个说法还缺乏充分依据）。危机发生后，收入不断地从中产阶级流向一小撮精英，这对消费需求构成了制约，所以不平等和经济危机以及之后的复苏乏力都是相关的。
In my view, however, the really crucial role of inequality in economic calamity has been political.
然而，在我看来，不平等在经济灾难中真正扮演的关键角色是政治性的。
In the years before the crisis, there was a remarkable bipartisan consensus in Washington in favor of financial deregulation — a consensus justified by neither theory nor history. When crisis struck, there was a rush to rescue the banks. But as soon as that was done, a new consensus emerged, one that involved turning away from job creation and focusing on the alleged threat from budget deficits.
在危机发生前的几年里，华盛顿在减少金融监管的问题上达成了一种非同寻常的两党共识——无论从理论还是历史来看，这种共识都是没道理的。危机发生时，拯救银行成了当务之急。但拯救完了以后，很快就有了一项新的共识，将增加就业机会抛至一旁，眼睛都盯着传说中的预算赤字威胁不放。
What do the pre- and postcrisis consensuses have in common? Both were economically destructive: Deregulation helped make the crisis possible, and the premature turn to fiscal austerity has done more than anything else to hobble recovery. Both consensuses, however, corresponded to the interests and prejudices of an economic elite whose political influence had surged along with its wealth.
危机前后的两种共识有什么共同点？两者对经济的影响都是毁灭性的：取消监管让危机成为可能，仓促转向财政紧缩除了束缚经济复苏的步伐以外没干什么好事。然而两种共识都符合一个经济精英阶层的利益和偏见，随着财富的暴涨，这个阶层的政治影响力也水涨船高。
This is especially clear if we try to understand why Washington, in the midst of a continuing jobs crisis, somehow became obsessed with the supposed need for cuts in Social Security and Medicare. This obsession never made economic sense: In a depressed economy with record low interest rates, the government should be spending more, not less, and an era of mass unemployment is no time to be focusing on potential fiscal problems decades in the future. Nor did the attack on these programs reflect public demands.
如果我们尝试去思考，在持续不断的就业危机中，华盛顿怎么就迷上了削减社会安全福利和联邦医疗保险的事，我前面说的就格外明显了。这种执迷在经济上从来就是说不通的：当经济陷入深度萧条，利率达到历史最低点时，政府应该多花钱，而不是相反；在一个出现大规模失业的时代，我们没有时间去关注未来几十年的财政隐忧。而对这些项目的攻击也不是公众需求的反映。
Surveys of the very wealthy have, however, shown that they — unlike the general public — consider budget deficits a crucial issue and favor big cuts in safety-net programs. And sure enough, those elite priorities took over our policy discourse.
通过对极富有人群的调查可以看到，他们和普通大众不一样，认为预算赤字是一个至关重要的问题，并赞成对社会保障项目进行大幅削减。这些精英显贵当然左右了我们的政策议程。
Which brings me to my final point. Underlying some of the backlash against inequality talk, I believe, is the desire of some pundits to depoliticize our economic discourse, to make it technocratic and nonpartisan. But that’s a pipe dream. Even on what may look like purely technocratic issues, class and inequality end up shaping — and distorting — the debate.
这就引出了我的最终观点。在不平等问题的讨论中，我相信一些大错特错的言论是出于一些专家想要将我们的经济议程去政治化，让它成为技术性的非党派问题。但那是痴心妄想。即便一些问题看上去纯粹是技术性的，阶级和不平等最终也会决定——并扭曲——辩论的方向。
So the president was right. Inequality is, indeed, the defining challenge of our time. Will we do anything to meet that challenge?
那么，总统是对的。不平等的确是我们这个时代的决定性挑战。我们能做些什么来迎接这个挑战吗？