BALTIMORE — MANY scientists believe that by transforming the earth’s natural landscapes, we are undermining the very life support systems that sustain us. Like bacteria in a petri dish, our exploding numbers are reaching the limits of a finite planet, with dire consequences. Disaster looms as humans exceed the earth’s natural carrying capacity. Clearly, this could not be sustainable.
巴尔的摩——很多科学家相信，通过改变地球的自然环境，我们正在破坏人类赖以生存的生命支持系统。就像培养皿中的细菌一样，爆炸式增长的人口数量正在逼近这个资源有限的行星的极限，这将带来可怕的后果。随着人口数量超过地球的自然承载力，灾难将临近。显然，这种状况是不可持续的。
This is nonsense. Even today, I hear some of my scientific colleagues repeat these and similar claims — often unchallenged. And once, I too believed them. Yet these claims demonstrate a profound misunderstanding of the ecology of human systems. The conditions that sustain humanity are not natural and never have been. Since prehistory, human populations have used technologies and engineered ecosystems to sustain populations well beyond the capabilities of unaltered “natural” ecosystems.
这纯属无稽之谈。甚至是今天，我还听到科学界的一些同事重复这种观点以及类似的观点——而且他们经常不受质疑。曾几何时，我也相信这类说法。然而，这显示了一种对人类系统生态学的深刻误解。维持人类生存的条件不是自然的，从来不是。自史前时期以来，人类一直使用技术和人工改造后的生态系统来维持人口数量，远远超过了未改造的“自然”生态系统能够维持的数量。
The evidence from archaeology is clear. Our predecessors in the genus Homo used social hunting strategies and tools of stone and fire to extract more sustenance from landscapes than would otherwise be possible. And, of course, Homo sapiens went much further, learning over generations, once their preferred big game became rare or extinct, to make use of a far broader spectrum of species. They did this by extracting more nutrients from these species by cooking and grinding them, by propagating the most useful species and by burning woodlands to enhance hunting and foraging success.
考古学提供的证据是明确的。我们的人属(genus Homo)祖先采用集体狩猎的策略，以石头和火为工具，从环境中获取了本来无法获取的食物。 当然，智人更是向前迈进了一大步，他们一代又一代地积累知识技能。当首选的大型狩猎对象变得稀有或灭绝时，他们对更加广泛的物种加以利用，具体方法是烹饪和研磨（以便从这些物种获得更多的营养物质），繁育最有用的物种，以及焚烧林地（以提高狩猎和觅食的成功率）。
Even before the last ice age had ended, thousands of years before agriculture, hunter-gatherer societies were well established across the earth and depended increasingly on sophisticated technological strategies to sustain growing populations in landscapes long ago transformed by their ancestors.
即使在最后一个冰河期尚未结束之前，距离农业活动的开展还有数千年之际，狩猎-采集社会就已经在地球的各个角落站稳脚跟，他们越来越依赖于先进的技术性策略，在不久前被他们的祖先转变的环境中，维持不断增长的人口。
The planet’s carrying capacity for prehistoric human hunter-gatherers was probably no more than 100 million. But without their Paleolithic technologies and ways of life, the number would be far less — perhaps a few tens of millions. The rise of agriculture enabled even greater population growth requiring ever more intensive land-use practices to gain more sustenance from the same old land. At their peak, those agricultural systems might have sustained as many as three billion people in poverty on near-vegetarian diets.
地球对史前捕猎-采集人群的承载力很可能接近1亿人。但是，若没有旧石器时代的技术及生活方式，这个数量会少得多——或许只有几千万人。更大幅度的人口增长需要更密集的土地使用行为，农业的兴起使人类能够从同一块土地获取更多食物。高峰时期，那些农业系统可能养活了多达30亿的贫困人口，他们吃的几乎都是素食。
The world population is now estimated at 7.2 billion. But with current industrial technologies, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has estimated that the more than nine billion people expected by 2050 as the population nears its peak could be supported as long as necessary investments in infrastructure and conducive trade, anti-poverty and food security policies are in place. Who knows what will be possible with the technologies of the future? The important message from these rough numbers should be clear. There really is no such thing as a human carrying capacity. We are nothing at all like bacteria in a petri dish.
目前，世界人口约为72亿。但联合国粮食及农业组织(Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations)预计，到2050年，世界人口将超过90亿，接近峰值，在现有的工业技术条件下，只要必要的基础设施投资以及有利的贸易、脱贫及粮食安全政策到位，就能支持这样的人口数量。谁知道未来的技术会造就怎样的可能性呢？这些粗略数字所传递的重要讯息应当是明确的：“人口承载力”这种东西真的是不存在的。我们跟培养皿中的细菌毫无共同之处。
Why is it that highly trained natural scientists don’t understand this? My experience is likely to be illustrative. Trained as a biologist, I learned the classic mathematics of population growth — that populations must have their limits and must ultimately reach a balance with their environments. Not to think so would be to misunderstand physics: there is only one earth, of course!
为什么高学历的自然科学家不理解这一点呢？我的经历或许可以解释。在接受成为生物学家的教育时，我学了有关人口增长的经典数学，也就是，人口必须有极限，最终必须与所在的环境达到一个平衡。不这样认为就是在扭曲物理学：毕竟，我们只有一个地球。
It was only after years of research into the ecology of agriculture in China that I reached the point where my observations forced me to see beyond my biologists’s blinders. Unable to explain how populations grew for millenniums while increasing the productivity of the same land, I discovered the agricultural economist Ester Boserup, the antidote to the demographer and economist Thomas Malthus and his theory that population growth tends to outrun the food supply. Her theories of population growth as a driver of land productivity explained the data I was gathering in ways that Malthus could never do. While remaining an ecologist, I became a fellow traveler with those who directly study long-term human-environment relationships — archaeologists, geographers, environmental historians and agricultural economists.
直到在中国进行了多年的农业生态学研究之后，我才进入一个新的阶段，所见所闻迫使我用生物学家以外的眼光去看问题。我无法解释人类是如何在几千年里一边增加自身数量，一边又在不断提高同一片土地的生产率，就在这时，我发现了农业经济学家埃斯特尔·柏泽尔普(Ester Boserup)的理论，她与人口学家、经济学家托马斯·马尔萨斯(Thomas Malthus)及其有关人口增速倾向于超出食物供应的理论持对立观点。按照她的理论，人口增长是提高土地生产率的推动因素，这能够解释我在收集的数据，而马尔萨斯的理论根本无从解释我的数据。在继续做生态学家的同时，我开始与那些直接研究人与环境长期关系的人——考古学家、地理学家、环境历史学家和农业经济学家——同行。
The science of human sustenance is inherently a social science. Neither physics nor chemistry nor even biology is adequate to understand how it has been possible for one species to reshape both its own future and the destiny of an entire planet. This is the science of the Anthropocene. The idea that humans must live within the natural environmental limits of our planet denies the realities of our entire history, and most likely the future. Humans are niche creators. We transform ecosystems to sustain ourselves. This is what we do and have always done. Our planet’s human-carrying capacity emerges from the capabilities of our social systems and our technologies more than from any environmental limits.
从根本上说，有关人类生计的科学必然是一门社会科学。物理学、化学乃至生物学都不足以解释一个物种如何在不断重塑自身未来的同时，也在重塑整个行星的命运。这便是“人类世”(Anthropocene)的科学。人类必须在地球自然环境限度范围内生息的观点，有违整个人类历史的现实，很可能还有未来。人类是缝隙创造者。我们改变生态系统以维持自身。这是我们现在在做的，也是自古以来一直在这么做的。地球对人类的承载能力，在更大程度上来自人类社会体系和技术的能力，而不是任何环境的限制。
Two hundred thousand years ago we started down this path. The planet will never be the same. It is time for all of us to wake up to the limits we really face: the social and technological systems that sustain us need improvement.
20万年前我们便走上了这条道路。地球的面貌从此被改变。如今我们应当清醒认识到人类面临的真正限制：维持人类生计的社会和技术体系需要改良。
There is no environmental reason for people to go hungry now or in the future. There is no need to use any more land to sustain humanity — increasing land productivity using existing technologies can boost global supplies and even leave more land for nature — a goal that is both more popular and more possible than ever.
无论是现在还是将来，都没有环境上的理由让任何人挨饿。我们也不需要用更多的土地来维持人类生计，因为利用现有技术提高土地生产率，就能够增加全球供应，甚至能让更多土地“退耕还林”，这个目标现在比以往任何时候都更受欢迎也更有可能。
The only limits to creating a planet that future generations will be proud of are our imaginations and our social systems. In moving toward a better Anthropocene, the environment will be what we make it.
我们的想象力和社会体系是我们在创造一个子孙后代会引以为豪的地球时面临的仅有的限制。在迈向更美好的人类世的道路上，我们的生存环境将由我们去创造。