Sooner or later, a foreigner studying Mandarin Chinese in China is bound to hear from Chinese friends and teachers: “You know whose Chinese is really good? Dashan’s!”
在中国学习普通话的外国人，迟早会从中国朋友和老师口中听到这句话：“你知道谁的中文真的很棒吗？大山！”
Dashan, 大山, literally Big Mountain, is the stage persona of Mark Rowswell, a tall, sandy-haired Canadian who is China’s most famous homegrown foreign entertainer. Mr. Rowswell, 49, began studying Chinese at the University of Toronto and moved to Beijing after graduation to further master the language. In December 1988, four months after landing in the Chinese capital, he appeared in a comedy skit on the main state television network, China Central Television, or CCTV. That was when Dashan was born.
大山是马克·罗斯韦尔(Mark Rowswell)的艺名。他是个高个子、金棕色头发的加拿大人，是在中国成名的外国艺人中最有名的一个。罗斯韦尔现年49岁，曾在多伦多大学(University of Toronto)学习中文，毕业后搬到了北京，以便进一步掌握这门语言。1988年12月，在到达北京四个月后，他出现在了中国的头号官方电视台中央电视台上，表演了一个喜剧小品。大山这个形象从此诞生。
Mr. Rowswell then studied a traditional Chinese form of comedy called cross talk. His fame grew as he regularly performed that, along with other kinds of entertainment, on television. Starting in 1998, he appeared four times on the annual CCTV Spring Festival Gala, the most watched television event of the year in China. No other foreigner has made as many appearances in the gala, though Mr. Rowswell says it is a “common misconception” that that is what made Dashan a household name. Most of his big shows have been on CCTV during other holidays, he says.
罗斯韦尔当时在研究一种名为“相声”的中国传统喜剧形式。他经常在电视上表演相声以及其他类型的娱乐节目，名气也因此越来越大。自1998年来，他四次出现在中央电视台的春节联欢晚会上，那是中国收视率最高的年度电视盛会，罗斯韦尔在春晚上出现的次数比任何一个外国人都多。不过他说，很多人都认为是春晚让大山变得家喻户晓，这是一个“常见的误解”。他说他的大多数重要演出都在其他假日期间在央视播出的。
This year’s gala will be broadcast on Wednesday, the eve of the Year of the Sheep. But Mr. Rowswell, who since 1995 has split his time between homes in Beijing and Canada, where his family lives, will not be performing. He has focused more recently on doing Western-style stand-up comedy in venues across China. In an interview, he discussed his decision to reinvent himself, the straitjacket of tradition and making Chinese laugh. Excerpts follow:
今年的春晚将在本周三羊年除夕播出（本文最初发表于2015年2月16日——编注），但罗斯韦尔本次将不会参加。他的家人在加拿大生活，他从1995年开始奔波于北京和加拿大两地。最近，他把更多的精力投入到在中国各地的场馆表演西式单口喜剧上。在接受采访时，他谈到了重塑自己的形象，传统造成的束缚，以及给中国人带来欢笑的话题。摘录如下：
Q: What inspired this new direction in your career?
问：是什么启迪了你职业生涯的这个新方向？
A: “Inspired” is a strange way to put it, as depression was much more of a catalyst. “What depressed you enough to get into stand-up comedy?” is probably a more appropriate question.
答：说“启迪”感觉有点怪，因为郁闷是更大的催化剂。“是什么让你这么郁闷，以至于让你开始表演单口喜剧？”这么问可能更合适一些。
I did my first proper stand-up gig in December 2013, almost exactly 25 years to the day from my first appearance as Dashan in 1988. I didn’t tell anyone, but that was my own way of marking the anniversary. I’ve felt for some time that I’d had a good run as Dashan, am proud of the success I had, but had clearly come to the end of whatever road I was following. I wasn’t enjoying my work anymore and I didn’t think that media and the entertainment business in general in China were moving in the right direction. So it seemed like a good point to do something new and very different.
我第一次正式演出单口喜剧是在2013年12月，与我1988年第一次以大山身份亮相相距几乎整整25年。这件事我没有告诉任何人，但这是我自己的周年纪念方式。有段时间，我觉得把大山演得很出色，我很成功，我感到自豪，但显然这条路已经走到尽头。我不再喜欢这份工作了，我觉得中国的媒体和中国娱乐圈总体上没有在朝着正确的方向前进。因此，这似乎是一个很好时点，去做一些新的、大不相同的事情。
Entertainment is always a young person’s business. That’s the same the world over, but there’s also an arrogance of youth that just assumes things are different/better/more open/more innovative/more advanced than before. Now that I’ve become the “senior performer,” I look back and think: “O.K., that stuff we did years ago was pretty schlocky, but all that’s really changed nowadays are the production values.” If you look specifically at what Westerners are doing on Chinese media, it seems that everyone is stuck in a time warp. What’s the difference with what we were doing in the 1980s and 1990s? Not much at all. Everybody is stuck repeating the same patterns. Maybe it’s up to the “seniors” to lead innovation. I’ve paid my dues, I’ve been a good student, I’ve learned the ropes and now I’m in a position where I can focus more energy on doing what I want to do and what I personally find rewarding and meaningful.
娱乐业永远是年轻人的行当。全球各地，莫不如此。但这个行业也有一种年轻人的嚣张，认为和以前相比，现在已经不同/更好/更开放/更有创新/更先进了。如今我已经是“资深演员”，回顾以往，我想：‘好吧，我们多年前做的那些东西相当粗糙，但眼下真正的变化只是精致程度。’如果你看看西方人在中国媒体上做的东西，似乎每个人都停留在了时间隧道里。这和我们在20世纪80年代和90年代做的事情有什么区别？没太多区别。每个人都不过是在重复相同模式。也许创新需要“资深人士”来引领。我已经交了学费，我是个好学生，我已经掌握了技能，以我现在的情况，我可以把更多的精力放在我想做的事情上，放在我个人觉得有价值和有意义的事情上。
Most people seem to think it’s crazy. Well, we’ll see what becomes of it. It is a process that’s going to take some time, a learning process for me and something that goes against common sense to a certain extent. It’s certainly not what the mass market demands. But at least it’s very new, and that’s exciting. I think it’s exactly what I needed after reaching the 25-year mark.
大多数人似乎觉得这很异想天开。没事，我们走着看吧。这个过程需要花些时间，对我来说是一个学习的过程，在某种程度上有些违背常理。这当然谈不上大众市场的需求。但至少这是非常新的东西，而且令人兴奋。我想，这正是我需要的25周年纪念。
Q: What are the biggest differences between performing cross talk and Western-style stand-up comedy in China?
问：在中国，相声和西式单口喜剧的最大的区别是什么？
A: Cross talk has become increasingly focused on tradition. You have to have a formal mentor who teaches you the conventions and the canon of classical pieces. There’s a lot of emphasis on style and even ritual, and people spend a lot of energy discussing whether a comedic performance technically qualifies as “cross talk.” They’ll say, “That’s funny, but it’s not really cross talk,” to which the flip side is, “That’s proper cross talk, but it’s not really funny.” Young people, especially, focus on learning and upholding the tradition, and I personally think that’s unfortunate. Tradition is important, but the most important thing is to understand tradition and why it became tradition, not simply to mimic it. There are universal truths of comedy, the rhythms and patterns of comedy, that are behind all of those traditions. Performers and audiences have become overly concerned with the style of cross talk out of, I think, a misguided emphasis on tradition.
答：相声变得越来越注重传统。你必须有一个正式的师父来教你规矩和传统段子。相声界现在非常强调风格，甚至是仪式，人们花费很多精力去讨论一个喜剧节目是否在理论上有资格称为“相声”。他们会说，“这很逗乐，不是真正的相声，”另一面说，“这是真正的相声，但它不怎么逗乐。”专注于学习和坚持传统，尤其是在年轻人中这么做，我个人认为不是好事。传统是重要的，但最重要的是要了解传统和为什么它会成为传统，而不是简单地模仿它。在喜剧及其节奏和规律上存在着普世真理，所有这些传统的背后都是一样的。这种向传统的倾斜在我看来是误入歧途的，表演者的观众因此过多地在意起相声的风格。
The great thing about stand-up is that tradition isn’t front and center. You just have to be funny. Audiences don’t know the tradition anyway. They call stand-up “tuokouxiu” 脱口秀, which is the same word they use for everything from Oprah Winfrey to Louis C.K. to Jon Stewart’s “The Daily Show.” These days the term “tuokouxiu” is everywhere, but the definition is very vague. It’s just Western-style talking and being funny. That’s great for me because it allows me to create my own style. And people think I must know what I’m doing, because I am a Westerner, after all.
单口喜剧的优势在于，传统不是它的前沿和中心。你只需要做到逗趣即可。反正观众也不了解传统。他们把单口喜剧称为“脱口秀”。这个词统称从奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)、路易·C·K (Louis C.K.)到乔恩·斯图尔特(Jon Stewart)“每日秀”(The Daily Show)的各种节目，“脱口秀”一词眼下极为常见，但其定义比较模糊，指的是逗趣的西式讲话节目。这对我来说是件大好事，因为我可以打造自己的风格。大家认为我肯定很擅长做脱口秀，因为毕竟我是一个西方人。
Q: What are the biggest differences between a Western performer doing stand-up in China and, say, in Canada or the United States?
问：在中国表演单口喜剧，和在加拿大、美国这样的地方表演，最大的区别是什么？
A: The market, or lack thereof. Going to comedy clubs in Canada, the U.S. or Europe, the thing that always blows me away is how well developed the marketplace is. Ordinary people go out on a regular basis and pay money to watch live comedy. There is an established circuit that performers follow around the country and, internationally, you can make a living just going from club to club, festival to festival, and there are very clear paths from smaller clubs to the bigger ones, to festivals to TV and beyond.
答：在于市场，或者说在于缺乏市场。去加拿大，美国或欧洲的喜剧俱乐部看看，那里的市场发达程度让我咂舌。普通人经常付钱去那里观看现场喜剧表演。还有成名的巡回表演团，表演者可以跟团到全国各地或者出国表演，你可以靠在不同的俱乐部和喜剧节上表演谋生，而且有非常清晰的上升途径，从小俱乐部到大俱乐部，到参加喜剧节，到电视表演等等。
That just doesn’t exist in China. There are a few very small clubs that are always struggling to find paying customers, and it’s largely removed from the mainstream entertainment business. At this point nobody in China is really making money off of stand-up comedy. People who persist in working away at stand-up are all doing it from a sense of passion and a belief that we can build something.
中国就没有这些。只有几个很小的俱乐部，要找到付费顾客也很困难，而且不在主流娱乐圈之内。在中国，目前上没有人能从单口喜剧中真正赚到钱。坚持做这行的人都是出于兴趣爱好，以及一种可以做出东西的信念。
Q: Are there certain models you look to when developing your stand-up routine?
问：在打磨自己的单口喜剧段子时，是否对某些人有所借鉴？
A: The influences are from two entirely different camps. First are the guys I grew up listening to, memorizing bits from the stand-up comedy of Bill Cosby, Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy. Second are the cross-talk masters I learned from in my 20s and beyond: Hou Baolin, Ma Ji, Jiang Kun. I’m relatively unbiased when it comes to taste, so I’ll listen equally to more recent guys like Guo Degang and Zhou Libo, for example. Most fans of one hate the other, but I respect each for their success. What I’m trying to build with the Dashan show is a very personal style, whatever the Dashan style is, and I’ll build in anything as long as it suits me personally. That’s something that’s very different from the norm in China, where you’re expected to learn the rules and customs and follow a particular style. I often have to explain: There are no rules, just what works for you.
答：两个完全不同的阵营对我产生了影响。我从小听比尔·考斯比(Bill Cosby)、史蒂夫·马丁(Steve Martin)、艾迪·墨菲(Eddie Murphy)的单口喜剧，记得其中的一些东西，这是其中一个。另一个是我20多岁以后学习的相声大师侯宝林、马季、姜昆。在风格方面，我没有特别偏好，所以既听郭德纲，也听周立波。他俩其中一个的粉丝往往讨厌另一个，但这两人的成功我同样尊重。我正在试图做的，是给大山的表演打造出一种非常个人化的风格，无论大山的风格是什么，只要适合我个人的东西，我都会尝试。这种做法和中国的规范大相径庭。按照中国的规范，你要学习规则和习俗，并遵循一种特定的风格。我常常得解释说：没有规则，只有合不合适自己。
Q: What are the most interesting shows you’ve done? What kinds of jokes seem to work well with the audiences here?
问：你做过的最有趣的表演是什么？什么样的笑话能引中国观众发笑？
A: In live comedy, it’s the venue that determines the audience as well as what and how you perform. The overall distinction between Chinese and Western audiences is too broad and vague to be of much practical use. Chinese audiences where? In a bar, a theater, a university, a community center, at a diplomatic event? Those are all hugely different from each other. I’ve covered a lot of different ground over the past year. I did one university performance in front of 6,000 first-year students who were in the middle of their mandatory military training. Within the space of 10 days I went from performing at the Canadian Embassy to an underground heavy metal club. Each time you think, “Is this going to work?” Well, so far so good. You adapt your material and your style to the venue.
答：在现场喜剧表演中，场地对观众的影响不亚于你的表演。中国和西方观众之间的整体差异过于宽泛和模糊，讨论这种差异缺乏实际用途。在哪里的中国观众？是在酒吧，还是剧院、大学，社区中心、外交场合？不同场合之间存在巨大的差别。过去一年里，我去过很多不同的场所。我在一所大学表演，观众中有6000名一年级新生，他们当时在参加强制性的军训。在10天的时间里，我先后在加拿大使馆和一家地下重金属俱乐部进行了表演。每一次你都想，“这次的效果会好吗？”到目前为止还可以。你要根据场合调整表演的内容和风格。
Q: How has your fame as Dashan affected the way people react to your stand-up routines?
问：“大山”的名气影响到大家对你单口喜剧套路的看法了吗？
A: My performances are entirely based on the fact that I’m a recognized commodity. People come to the shows to see Dashan, but also to see something a bit different. To be honest, I’m not really interested in performing to audiences that don’t know Dashan. There are more than enough people who do know me and what I’ve done over the years, and that’s great fodder for me to work with. Having audiences that know the back story makes it easier for me to play with expectations and hopefully break out a bit from the East-West cultural dialogue that never seems to change very much. So being Dashan is a huge benefit that I try to exploit as much as possible.
答：我的表演全部建立在这一事实的基础上：我是一个得到认可的品牌。人们来观看演出既是为了看大山，也是为了看一些不同的东西。老实说，如果观众不知道大山是谁，我真的就没多大兴趣演出了。已经有足够多的人认识我，知道我这些年做过什么，这给我带来了很好的创作素材。面对了解故事背景的观众，我可以更容易地控制人们的期待，这样就有望稍稍做一些突破，不再局限于东西方文化对话的主题，而对该主题的讨论一直都没什么新意。因此“大山”的名气是一个极大的优势，我会尽可能地利用它。
Q: Do you have any favorite jokes that you want to share with our readers?
问：你有没有喜欢的笑话，想要跟我们的读者分享的呢？
A: No. I don’t really tell jokes, actually. I think that’s a misunderstanding about comedy. At least my humor tends to be much more situational and story-based, it’s about being a Westerner in China, or being this Westerner who’s seen as being “more Chinese than the Chinese,” being between cultures, or being the “national TV celebrity” that you are now seeing live and close up as a flesh-and-blood person, and all of the twists and turns that can be worked off of those kinds of themes.
答：没有。我其实不讲笑话。我认为那是对喜剧的误解。至少我的幽默倾向于以情境和故事为基础，关于西方人在中国的状态，或者这个在人们眼中“比中国人还中国人”的西方人的生活，跨文化的故事，或是关于一个站在你眼前的、有血有肉的“国家电视台节目里的明星”，所有的包袱和段子都可以从这些主题中创作出来。
Q: In what venues do you mostly perform these days, and to what kinds of audiences?
问：现在你最经常在哪里演出，为哪些类型的观众演出？
A: Going through my records, I ended up doing 28 gigs in universities last year. That was the main forum where I practiced for my solo show, starting off with something like a humorous lecture about my background and cross-cultural issues in general, and gradually working that into a solid 60-70 minutes of comedic material. It started out more like 20 percent comedic content and I just kept working on the funny side.
答：回顾一下我的经历，去年，我一共在大学校园里举办了28场演出。那是我为个人脱口秀进行练习的主要舞台，一开始的演出类似于一场幽默的演讲，介绍一些我的个人经历，再泛泛地讲一讲跨文化的问题，我把这些内容逐渐加工成一个固定的60到70分钟长的喜剧节目。最初差不多有20%的内容是搞笑的，我会不断地加强节目的幽默效果。
There are stand-up clubs in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, as you know, but it’s a very limited environment. It’s not at all like the U.S., where you can work out stuff in the smaller clubs and then go into bigger theaters. So I did the stand-up venues like Hot Cat Club in Beijing a few times, but I found that very limiting. You’re working with maybe 40 to 60 people in the audience — on a good night. Sometimes more like 15 to 20 people. And they tend to be a very narrow niche audience of fairly devoted stand-up fans, not a cross section of society at all. So I probably did eight or 10 appearances in small clubs like that.
北京、上海和深圳有单口喜剧俱乐部，但你知道，那里的环境有些局限。这里一点也不像美国，在美国，可以在小型俱乐部里先把节目准备好，然后再到更大的剧场去演出。所以，我在北京热力猫俱乐部这样的演出场所表演过几次，我发现那里局限性太大。现场可能有大概40到60名观众，这还是在晚上人多的时候。有时也就15到20个人。他们往往属于很窄的一个群体，都是单口喜剧的忠实粉丝，根本不能代表社会各个阶层。因此我大概在这样的小俱乐部举办过八到十场演出。
I found it better to appear as a “special guest” when some of these stand-up clubs did proper commercial performances in theaters, where you’re dealing more with 150 to 200 or sometimes as many as 400 people in the audience. At a rough count, I did about 14 of those kinds of theater performances with various stand-up troupes. So the university and club gigs together puts me at roughly 50 stand-up appearances of one type or the other over 2014.
我发现，有些喜剧俱乐部在剧场举办像样的商业演出时，如果能做一名特别嘉宾，那样效果会更好。你会面对150到200名观众，有时多达400人。粗略统计，我跟着各种单口喜剧剧团参加过大概14次这样的剧场演出。这么一来，大学校园和俱乐部的演出加在一起，2014年，我大概参与了50次不同类型的演出。