Substandard tuberculosis drugs sold by pharmacies in poor countries are a growing public health threat, but the problem could be alleviated if governments enforced World Health Organization standards, a new study reports.
一项最新研究报告显示，贫穷国家药店出售的不合格结核病药物成为日益威胁公众健康的一个严重问题。但是，如果政府可以执行世界卫生组织（World Health Organization，简称WHO）的标准，这个问题就有可能得以缓解。
At pharmacies in 17 countries, the authors bought 713 samples of two TB drugs, the antibiotics rifampin and isoniazid. Nine percent had no active ingredient or, worse, too little: An inadequate dose encourages the growth of drug-resistant TB strains while not curing the patient.
研究报告的作者们在17个国家的药店购买了713个样本的两种肺结核药物——抗生素类的利福平和异烟肼。9%的样本不含有任何有效成份，或者更为糟糕的是，有效成分太少：有效成份不足不但不能治愈病人，还会促使抗药性肺结核菌株的生长。
The study, published online by PLoS Medicine, shows the failures in what should be a nearly perfect system for basic TB control, said Dr. Lucica Ditiu, executive secretary of the Stop TB Partnership.
终止结核病伙伴组织(Stop TB Partnership)的执行秘书卢奇卡·第提尤(Lucica Ditiu)博士说，这篇由《公共科学图书馆·医学》(PLos Medicine)在线发布的研究报告说明，用于基本结核病控制的体系本应是几近完美的，但却出现了很多失误。
That partnership, which is affiliated with the W.H.O., supplies packaged, high-quality drugs at about $30 per box with a six-month supply. Poor countries get them free, middle-income countries pay on a sliding scale, and even the United States is negotiating to buy them to cover spot shortages, Dr. Ditiu said.
终止结核病伙伴组织隶属于WHO，定量供应高质量药物，每盒约为30美元（约合184元人民币），每次供应六个月的量。第提尤博士称，贫穷国家可以免费获得这些药品，中等收入国家购买这些药品可以按比例支付，就连美国也在协商购买这些药物，来应对暂时的药物短缺。
Ideally, said Amir Attaran, a drug-counterfeiting expert at the University of Ottawa and an author of the study, all countries would buy the partnership’s drugs and governments would ban sales of those drugs for other purposes.
这份报告的作者、渥太华大学(University of Ottawa)打击假药方面的专家阿米尔·阿塔兰(Amir Attaran)称，理想情况下，所有国家都应该购买“终止结核病伙伴组织”的药品，政府也应该禁止将这些药品用作其他用途的销售。
“But that’s not what happens,” Dr. Attaran said. Not all countries follow the W.H.O. regimen, not all doctors prescribe the drugs in it, “and in private pharmacies, all bets are off,” he added, since some will sell anything to any buyer, with or without a prescription.
 “但事实并不是这样，”阿塔兰博士说。不是所有的国家都会接受WHO的管理，也不是所有的医生都会为病人开这些药，“尤其是在私人药店里，所有这些规定都不作数了。”他进一步地解释说，因为有些私人药店会卖任何药品给任何顾客，不管有没有处方。
Even poor countries like Rwanda have shown they can control TB by enforcing “pharmacovigilance,” the study said. Both Dr. Attaran and Dr. Ditiu cited India as a country that conspicuously fails to enforce it and so is facing a huge epidemic of multidrug-resistant TB.
这份研究报告称，就算是像卢旺达这样的贫穷国家也已显示出，它们能够通过实行“药物警戒”来控制肺结核。阿塔兰博士和第提尤博士都把印度作为反面典型，认为印度故意不执行这些规范，正面临着多重抗药性肺结核的大范围爆发。