The patient, a wiry businessman in his 50s, needed a copy of his medical records to bring to a specialist for a second opinion. He assumed that getting the copies would be straightforward; the records were, after all, his.
这名患者50多岁，是一个瘦而结实的商人，他想复印一下自己的病历，以征询另一位专家的意见。他原以为获取病历的复印件会很简单；毕竟，病历是他自己的。
But after multiple trips to his doctor’s office and the hospital and several days of missed work, he learned otherwise. At the hospital, after spending the good part of a morning hunting down the right person to process his request, he learned that signing the requisite permission forms was not enough. He would have to pay for the copies that would take several days to put together. Those copies turned out to be incomplete, so he had to wait another few days, and pay more, for copies of the missing pages.
但在耽误了几天的工作，多次往返医院和医生办公室之后，他才明白事情并没有那么简单。在医院花了大半个上午找到负责处理其请求的人之后，他才得知除了在必要的许可表格上签字之外，他还得花钱买那些需要几天时间才能准备好的病历复印件。而后又发现复印件不完整，为此他还得再多等几天，并且再花一些钱买那些缺失页的复印件。
At his doctor’s office, the staff and then his own physician had responded to his request by asking him why he even needed his records. “I told them the truth, that I wanted a second opinion, but it was more than a little awkward,” he recalled. “I’m not sure if my doctor will treat me differently from now on.”
在医生办公室，工作人员和他当时的医生面对他的请求，首先问的是他究竟为什么需要自己的病历。“我告诉他们实情，那就是我想听听别的意见，但这相当尴尬，”他回忆说：“我不知道我的医生对我的态度是不是从此会改变。”
“It’s like they and the hospital were doing everything they could to make it harder for me,” he said.
“我的感觉是，他们和医院在尽其所能地为我制造障碍，”他说。
Two weeks later, dossier in hand, he swore he would never let it out of his sight. But, he added, “I can’t say that this whole experience has given me a lot of confidence in my doctor or my hospital.”
两周之后，病历终于到手，他发誓绝不让它离开自己的视线。但是，他补充道，“整个事件让我对我的医生和医院失去了信心。”
This patient’s experience, like those of so many others who have tried to obtain their medical records, came to mind this week when I read about the long-awaited results of a study in which patients were given complete access to their doctors’ notes. The findings, published in the Annals of Internal Medicine, do more than shed light on what patients want. They make our current ideas about transparency in the patient-doctor relationship a quaint artifact of the past.
当我在这周读到期盼已久的一项研究的结果（在该项研究中，患者可以获得医生的记录）时，我想起了这名患者及其他众多试图获取个人病历的患者的经历。发表在《内科学年鉴》(Annals of Internal Medicine)上的这项研究的结果不仅指出了患者的需求，而且也表明了当前医患关系中的信息透明观念已经不合时宜了。
Since 1996, when Congress passed the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or Hipaa, patients have had the right to read and even amend their own records.
自1996年国会通过《健康保险可携性和责任法案》(Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Hipaa)之后，患者已经有权查看甚至修改他们自己的病历。
In fact, few patients have ever consulted their own records. Most do not fully grasp the extent of their legal rights; and the few who have attempted to exercise them have often found themselves mired in a parallel universe filled with administrative regulations, small-print permission forms, added costs and repeated delays.
事实上，鲜有患者查看他们自己的病历。大多数患者未充分了解他们所拥有的合法权利；而那些曾试图行使这些权利的少数患者却发现他们陷入了一个充斥着行政法规、附带密密麻麻细则的许可表格、附加成本及反复拖延的平行宇宙中。
Many physicians also remained hesitant to share their notes, part of the patient’s records, because of concerns that such openness might have harmful effects on both their patients’ well-being and their own practices. Some worried that mention of minor abnormalities in laboratory values — for example, a slightly elevated prostate specific antigen or white blood cell count — could cause patients to worry unduly about some dread disease.
此外，许多医生也不愿意分享自己的记录（医生的记录属于患者病历的一个组成部分），因为他们担心这种公开会对患者的健康状况以及他们自己的执业行为产生不利影响。一些医生担心，若提及化验值的轻度异常——比如说前列腺特异抗原或白细胞计数的轻度上升，可能会使患者忧虑自己是不是患上了某些可怕的疾病。
Other doctors feared that common medical abbreviations like “SOB” (shortness of breath) or “anorexic” (lack of appetite) could be misinterpreted. Still others imagined that writing notes with patient readers in mind would only complicate the process, adding to the already Sisyphean administrative demands of practice and inviting an onslaught of patient e-mails and calls for extended consultations.
其他一些医生则担心通用的医学缩写如“SOB”（呼吸浅促）或“anorexic”（纳差）可能会被错误解读。还有一些医生则设想，若在写记录时想着患者会看到，那只会让记录过程更加复杂，不仅给原本就繁冗的行医管理要求平添累赘，而且还会招致患者众多的咨询邮件和电话。
Those fears, it now turns out, were largely unfounded.
现在表明这些担心大多都是没有根据的。
For one year, the study, aptly called OpenNotes, allowed over 13,000 patients from three medical centers — the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, the Geisinger Health System in Danville, Pa., and the Harborview Medical Center in Seattle — to have complete access to one part of their medical records, the notes that doctors wrote about them. Within days of seeing their doctors, patients received an e-mail inviting them to read the doctor’s signed note on a secure patient Web site. Two weeks before their return visit, patients received a second e-mail inviting them again to review their doctor’s note from the previous encounter.
这项为期一年的研究被贴切地命名为“公开记录”(OpenNotes)。研究中，三家医疗中心——位于波士顿的贝丝·伊斯雷尔女执事医疗中心(Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center)、位于宾夕法尼亚州丹维尔的盖辛格健康系统(Geisinger Health System)，以及位于西雅图的港景医疗中心(Harborview Medical Center)——的1.3万余名患者可任意查看个人病历中的一个组成部分，即医生记录。在看完病的几天内，患者会收到一封电子邮件，邀请他们在一个安全的患者网站查看经医生签字的记录。在复诊的两周前，患者还会收到了另一封电子邮件，再次邀请他们查看之前的诊断记录。
After a year, almost all the patients were enthusiastic about the OpenNotes initiative.
一年后，几乎所有患者都对“公开记录”这项举措充满热情。
Surprisingly, so were the majority of doctors.
出人意料的是，多数医生也对该项举措充满热情。
Approximately three-quarters of all the doctors said that such transparency had none of the dreaded impacts on their practice. Many felt there was more trust, better communication, more shared decision-making and increased patient satisfaction. While a portion of the doctors were hesitant at the beginning of the study, not a single one opted to stop sharing notes with patients after the study ended.
在所有医生中，有大约四分之三表示这种透明性未对他们行医产生任何可怕的影响。很多医生觉得患者对他们的信任增加了，双方的沟通改善了，共同决策增多了，而且患者的满意度也提升了。尽管在该项研究开始时有一部分医生表示迟疑，但在研究结束后没有一个医生选择停止与患者分享记录。
“Their fears simply never materialized,” said Jan Walker, one of the two lead authors and a registered nurse and health services researcher at Beth Israel Deaconess.
“他们的担心根本没有成为现实，”该项研究的两名主要作者之一、贝丝·伊斯雷尔女执事医疗中心注册护士、健康服务研究员简·沃克(Jan Walker)说。
There were several surprising results for patients, as well. While many said they felt more in control of their own care, up to almost 80 percent of the patients said that reading their doctors’ notes helped them to take their medications more regularly and better follow their doctors’ treatment recommendations. Furthermore, having access to their doctors’ notes became so important that nearly all of the patients said any future decisions regarding doctors or hospitals would be predicated on being able to access their records easily.
患者方面也有几个出人意料的结果。许多患者表示，他们觉得自己在治疗中更有主动权了，近80%的患者说查看医生记录有助于他们更有规律地服用药物，更好地遵循医生的治疗建议。此外，几乎所有患者都表示，能否轻易查看个人病历，将对其今后任何涉及医生或医院的决定起到关键作用。公开记录的重要性由此可窥一斑。
All three hospitals in the study are working to allow those patients who participated to continue to have access to their doctors’ notes. Beth Israel Deaconess, which already allows all patients to view their test results on a secure patient Web site, plans to expand the program even further over the coming year, becoming one of the first hospitals in the country to allow all patients open access to notes from not only their doctors but also their nurses and all other health care providers.
目前，该项研究中的三家医院仍允许参与研究的患者继续查看医生的记录。贝丝·伊斯雷尔女执事医疗中心已经允许所有患者在一个安全的患者网站上查看他们的检查结果，并计划在接下来的几年里进一步扩大该计划，使其成为美国首批允许所有患者查看医生、护士以及所有其他医疗服务人员记录的医院之一。