We usually assume that new medical procedures and drugs are adopted because they are better. But a new analysis has found that many new techniques and medicines are either no more effective than the old ones, or worse. Moreover, many doctors persist in using practices that have been shown to be useless or harmful.
我们总是想当然地认为，人们采用新的医疗手段和药物是因为它们效果较好。但是，最近的一项分析发现，许多新的技术和药物其实并不比原有的更有效，有的甚至还更糟。此外，有众多医生仍坚持使用已被证明是无用或有害的医疗操作。
Scientists reviewed each issue of The New England Journal of Medicine from 2001 through 2010 and found 363 studies examining an established clinical practice. In 146 of them, the currently used drug or procedure was found to be either no better, or even worse, than the one previously used. The report appears in the August issue of Mayo Clinic Proceedings.
在审查了2001年到2010年的各期《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)后，科学家们总结发现，其中有363项研究对现有的临床实践进行了探讨。其中有146项研究表明当前使用的药物或医疗程序不优于或逊于以往。该报告刊登于8月的《梅奥诊所学报》(Mayo Clinic Proceedings)上。
More than 40 percent of established practices studied were found to be ineffective or harmful, 38 percent beneficial, and the remaining 22 percent unknown. Among the practices found to be ineffective or harmful were the routine use of hormone therapy in postmenopausal women; high-dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplant, a complex and expensive treatment for breast cancer that was found to be no better than conventional chemotherapy; and intensive glucose lowering in Type 2 diabetes patients in intensive care, which not only failed to reduce cardiovascular events but actually increased mortality.
研究发现，在现有的医疗操作中，有40%无效或有害，38%有益，其余22%则效果未知。其中，无效或有害的医疗操作包括：在绝经后的女性中常规使用激素治疗；使用高剂量化疗和干细胞移植治疗乳腺癌，它不但既复杂又昂贵，治疗效果也并不优于常规化疗；对需接受重症监护的II型糖尿病患者进行强化降糖治疗，这不仅不能减少心血管问题，实际上反而造成了死亡率的增加。
In some instances, doctors routinely refused to give beneficial therapies despite a lack of evidence that they were harmful. Vaccines were unnecessarily withheld from multiple sclerosis patients in the belief that they increased flare-ups; women with lupus were denied oral contraceptives for fear they increased the severity of the disease; and epidural anesthesia was delayed during childbirth on the theory it increased the rate of Caesarean sections. Yet good studies showed that none of these fears was justified..
在某些情况下，即便并无证据表明某些有益的医疗程序可能带来负面影响，但医生们仍会拒绝实施这些疗法。例如，因认为疫苗会造成多发性硬化症复燃，而毫无必要地拒绝为该病患者接种；由于害怕口服避孕药会加重病情而禁止女性狼疮患者使用该避孕途径；以及，基于硬膜外麻醉可能增加剖腹产率这一理论，推迟分娩过程中的硬膜外麻醉等。然而，高质量的研究表明，这些都不过是杞人忧天。
“Contradicted practices don’t disappear immediately,” said the lead author, Dr. Vinay Prasad. “There’s an inertia, a 10-year period of time when the contradicted procedure continues to be practiced.”
“这些不合理的临床实践通常不会在短期内销声匿迹，”该研究的主要作者维奈·普拉萨德(Vinay Prasad)博士说，“就像是带着惯性一样，它们往往会持续10年左右。”
Dr. William E. Boden, chief of medicine at the Stratton VA Medical Center in Albany, who was not involved in the work, found the study useful and provocative. “It’s challenging us to look at things we’ve done and attempt to find whether there’s evidence to support their use,” he said. “There’s going to be increasing pressure to come forward with making sure that the health care dollars we’re allocating are being well utilized.”
奥尔巴尼市斯特拉顿VA医学中心(Stratton VA Medical Center)的内科主任威廉·E·博登(William E. Boden)博士并没有参与上述工作，但他指出，该研究对医疗领域大有助益，同时也提出了挑战。“它迫使我们低下头来审视手头的工作，并探寻支持其使用的证据何在，”博登博士解释道，“为了确保医疗经费得到良好的利用，我们承受的压力正日渐增大。”
Dr. Prasad, chief fellow in medical oncology at the National Cancer Institute, said that new medical appliances present a special problem. “Devices are particularly bad because they can be approved if they’re similar to ones already on the market,” he said. He cited as an example the Swan-Ganz catheter, a device threaded into the heart to monitor heart function and blood flow. It gives accurate information, Dr. Prasad said, “but that information doesn’t help. We continue to introduce new catheters all the time, lacking good evidence that they work. This is a tremendous waste of resources.”
美国国家癌症研究所(National Cancer Institute)肿瘤内科的首席研究员普拉萨德博士说，“医疗设备领域的情况尤其糟糕，因为只要新产品与市场上的现有产品类似，就可能通过审批，”他以Swan-Ganz导管为例，对这个特殊的问题进行了解释。Swan-Ganz导管是一种可插入心脏的设备，用以监测心脏功能和血液流动。它可以提供非常准确的信息，但普拉萨德博士说，“可惜的是，这些信息并没带来什么实际的帮助。导管设备不断推陈出新，但能证实它们效果的证据却寥寥无几。这是对资源的极大浪费。”
Often doctors persist with procedures that lack evidence because they seem to make sense, Dr. Prasad said. “They all sound good if you talk about the mechanisms,” he said. “You have cholesterol-clogged arteries, it makes sense that if you open them up it will help. But when that was studied, it didn’t improve survival.”
通常，医生坚持使用缺乏证据支持的医疗手段是因为，“单论机制而言，它们看似都很有道理，”普拉萨德博士说。“比方说，如果你的动脉被胆固醇堵塞了，那么对它们进行疏通显然是个明智的选择。但经过研究之后，人们发现该程序并没能提高生存率。”
Patients, too, like to talk about mechanisms, Dr. Prasad added. “They tend to gravitate toward the nuts and bolts — what does it do, how does it work?” he said. “But the real question is: Does it work? What evidence is there that it does what you say it does? What trials show that it actually works? You shouldn’t ask how does it work, but whether it works at all.”
普拉萨德博士补充道，患者们也喜欢讨论机制。“他们往往倾向于关注某些基本要点——（新的医疗产品或手段）有哪些用途？工作原理如何？”他说，“但真正的问题在于：这东西行得通么？有哪些证据支持它可以执行理论上的功能？有什么试验能表明它切实有效？在关心它如何发挥作用之前，您首先要确定它到底能不能发挥作用才行。”