DONETSK, Ukraine — Ukraine’s interior minister claimed on Thursday that an armored column from Russia had crossed the border into eastern Ukraine overnight and had fought with Ukrainian troops during the day.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——乌克兰内政部长周四宣称，俄罗斯的一支装甲编队夜间跨越边境进入乌克兰东部，并在白天与乌克兰军队作战。
Russia did not immediately respond to the minister’s allegation, and there was no independent confirmation that an incursion had taken place.
俄罗斯并未立即回应这位部长的说法，目前还没有独立信息能够证实俄军的确实施了进犯。
If it did, the event would signal a significant escalation in the simmering conflict in eastern Ukraine, where pro-Russian separatist militias have seized government buildings in several cities and have resisted government troops sent to restore control.
如果属实，则将意味着乌克兰东部日益胶着的冲突严重激化。在这里，亲俄罗斯的分离主义武装组织已经控制了几座城市的政府大楼，而且还在抵抗受命前来夺回控制权的政府军。
Russia is widely believed to be supporting and aiding the separatist militias, and significant numbers of men who describe themselves as volunteer fighters have crossed into Ukraine from Russia. But the precise role Russia has played in the violence in the east has been hard to discern.
人们广泛认为，俄罗斯在为分离派武装提供支持和援助，大批声称自己是自愿参战的人员，已经从俄罗斯进入乌克兰。但是，俄罗斯在东部的暴力冲突中所扮演的确切角色目前仍难以确定。
The Ukrainian interior minister, Arsen Avakov, told reporters in Kiev, the capital, that the armored column included three tanks, as well as armored personnel carriers and armored cars, and had traversed the border at a separatist-controlled crossing.
乌克兰内政部长阿尔森·阿瓦科夫(Arsen Avakov)告诉首都基辅的记者，这个装甲编队包括三辆坦克，还有装甲运兵车以及装甲车，已经在一个由分离派控制的过境点跨过边境。
A video posted online appeared to show a tank, spewing exhaust, clanking down a street in Snizhne, a town about midway between Donetsk, a provincial capital controlled by separatists, and the Russian frontier. Reuters reported that two of its journalists saw the tanks in Snizhne but could not establish where they had come from; separatists on the scene said the tanks had been taken from a Ukrainian military warehouse. Late Thursday, photographs that circulated online were said to show the tanks on a boulevard in Donetsk.
在网上发布的一段视频中，一辆喷着尾气的坦克，沿着斯尼日涅的一条街道轰隆隆地行驶，这座城镇大概位于顿涅茨克和俄罗斯边境的正中间。顿涅茨克是顿涅茨克州首府，由分离派控制。据路透社(Reuters)报道，两名路透社记者看见了斯尼日涅的坦克，但是无法确定它们来自何处；在场的分离主义者表示，这些坦克是从乌克兰军方的一个仓库里开出来的。周四晚些时候，网上传播的一些照片显示的情景，据称是坦克在顿涅茨克的一条大马路上行驶。
The pro-Russian militias are known to have armored personnel carriers that were seized from Ukrainian forces, but they have not previously been known to possess any tanks.
人们知道亲俄武装人员拥有从乌克兰军队抢来的装甲运兵车，但是此前没人知道他们还有坦克。
After Mr. Avakov’s news conference, the newly elected president of Ukraine, Petro O. Poroshenko, telephoned President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to object to the incursion, a spokesman for Mr. Poroshenko said. The spokesman, Svyatoslav Tsegolko, wrote on his Facebook page that Mr. Poroshenko had told Mr. Putin that allowing tanks to cross into his country was “unacceptable.”
波罗申科的一名发言人透露，在阿瓦科夫召开新闻发布会之后，乌克兰新当选的总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)曾致电俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，反对俄罗斯的入侵。发言人斯维亚托斯拉夫·泽戈尔科(Svyatoslav Tsegolko)在他的Facebook页面上写道，波罗申科告诉普京，让坦克越境进入他的国家是“不可接受的”。
Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, told the Itar-Tass news agency that the two leaders had spoken, but he made no mention of the Ukrainian accusation. He said Mr. Poroshenko had congratulated Mr. Putin on the occasion of Russia Day, a national holiday celebrated annually on June 12, and then “informed Putin about his plan for a settlement in the southeast of Ukraine.”
普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)对俄通社-塔斯社(Itar-Tass)说，两国领导人的确通过话，但是他没有提到乌克兰的指责。他说，波罗申科在俄罗斯国庆日（Russia Day，每年6月12日）对普京表达了祝贺，然后“向普京告知了他解决乌克兰东南部冲突的计划”。
Ukraine has repeatedly accused Russia of deliberately allowing men and weapons to cross the two countries’ porous border, allegations Russia has denied. Last week, Ukrainian officials said Russia had allowed armored vehicles to cross the border at Marinovka; it later turned out that separatists had been operating near the border but had not attacked across it.
乌克兰曾多次指责俄罗斯蓄意允许人员和武器通过了两国之间漏洞百出的边境，俄罗斯对这一指责予以否认。上周，乌克兰官员称，俄罗斯允许装甲车穿越马里诺夫卡的边界线；后来证实，分离派曾在边境附近活动，但没有穿越边境实施袭击。
At his news conference on Thursday, Mr. Avakov told reporters: “We observed three tanks, which, according to our information, crossed the border and were in Snizhne by morning. After this, two of them moved toward Horlivka,” a town farther west. “They were attacked by our forces,” he said. “A battle is underway.”
周四，阿瓦科夫出席新闻发布会时告诉记者：“我们看到了三辆坦克，根据我们的情报，这些坦克越过边境，清晨时到达了斯尼日涅。之后，其中两辆坦克驶向戈尔洛夫卡。”戈尔洛夫卡是一个位置更偏西的城镇。“他们遭到了我军的袭击，”他说。“战斗正在进行中。”
The tanks and other armored vehicles crossed “despite the Russian Federation’s statements that it welcomes the peace process, and that the order had been given to strengthen border patrols,” Mr. Avakov said.
阿瓦科夫表示，坦克和其他装甲车跨越了边境，“尽管俄罗斯联邦发表声明称，欢迎和平进程，并称已经下令加强边境巡逻工作。”
Russia has raised its own allegations against Ukraine. The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, complained on Tuesday that the Ukrainian army had not halted operations in the east even though talks meant to achieve a cease-fire were underway among Russia, Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
俄罗斯也对乌克兰发起了指责。周二，俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)抱怨道，乌克兰军队没有停止在东部地区的行动，尽管俄罗斯、乌克兰及欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)正在就达成挺火而举行会谈。
Mr. Poroshenko has said that he is prepared to allow Russian fighters in Ukraine to return to Russia safely, to grant amnesty to local militants who are not accused of grave crimes and to discuss giving regional governments more power and autonomy, but that he will not negotiate with armed separatists.
波罗申科表示，他准备允许在乌克兰的俄罗斯作战人员安全返回俄罗斯，赦免那些没有受到重罪指控的当地武装分子，讨论向地方政府给予更多权力和自治，但他不会与武装分裂分子谈判。
Whether tanks actually crossed the border or not, the allegation that they had done so was a setback for the talks.
无论坦克是否跨越了边境，单是这种指责就已经让会谈受挫。
Violence continued on Thursday evening in the east. At least seven people were wounded after a car bomb exploded outside the regional administration building that is the headquarters of the self-declared People’s Republic of Donetsk, in the center of the city.
周四晚间，东部地区的暴力活动仍在继续。一枚汽车炸弹在位于市中心的地方政府大楼外爆炸，导致至少七人受伤，那里是自行宣布成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国的总部。
The local news media reported that the blast was an assassination attempt on a separatist leader, Denis Pushilin, but that he was not harmed. If that was the motive, it would be the second attempt on his life in two weeks, because of internecine fighting among separatist groups or between them and Ukrainian nationalist organizations backed by the government in Kiev.
当地新闻媒体报道称，此次爆炸事件是针对分离派领袖丹尼斯·普希林(Denis Pushilin)的暗杀行动，但他没有受伤。如果动机的确如此，这将是两周以来第二次意在除掉普希林的行动，原因要么是各分离派团体之间的内斗，要么是它们与乌克兰民族主义组织之间的争斗。乌克兰民族主义组织受到基辅政府的支持。
Russia signaled on Thursday that it would keep up its economic pressure on Ukraine. Aleksei B. Miller, the head of the giant Russian gas monopoly Gazprom, said in televised remarks that Russia would not extend a deadline for Ukraine to pay $1.95 billion for natural gas beyond 10 a.m. on Monday.
周四，俄罗斯释放信号，该国将继续向乌克兰施加经济压力。天然气巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)首席执行官阿列克谢·B·米勒(Alexey B. Miller)在电视讲话中表示，俄罗斯不会延长乌克兰的付款期限。乌克兰需要在周一上午10点之前支付19.5亿美元（约合120亿元人民币）的天然气账单。