Michael R. Bloomberg, who bypassed his own run for the presidency this election cycle, will endorse Hillary Clinton in a prime-time address at the Democratic convention and make the case for Clinton as the best choice for moderate voters in 2016, an adviser to Bloomberg said.
迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)的一名顾问表示，选择不参加本届总统竞选的布隆伯格将于黄金时段在民主党全国大会上发表演讲，正式支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，同时陈述在2016年的选举中，为何克林顿是温和派选民的最佳选择。
The news is an unexpected move from Bloomberg, who has not been a member of the Democratic Party since 2000; was elected the mayor of New York City as a Republican; and later became an independent.
有关布隆伯格此举的消息出人意料。他从2000年开始便不再是民主党成员。之后，他以共和党人的身份当选纽约市长，后来又成为了独立派人士。
But it reflects Bloomberg’s increasing dismay about the rise of Donald Trump and a determination to see that the Republican nominee is defeated.
不过，此事反映出了布隆伯格对唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的崛起越来越不满，并决心看到这名共和党提名人败北。
Clinton is seeking to reach out to middle-of-the-road swing voters and even moderate Republicans uneasy about Trump. Polls show that significant numbers of Republicans remain wary of Trump and question his fitness for the presidency.
克林顿正寻求争取持中立态度的摇摆选民，乃至对特朗普感到不安的温和派共和党人。民调显示，相当人数的共和党人始终对特朗普怀有戒心，怀疑他是否适合担任总统。
Bloomberg will vouch for Clinton “from the perspective of a business leader and an independent,” said Howard Wolfson, a senior adviser to Bloomberg.
布隆伯格的高级顾问霍华德·沃尔夫森(Howard Wolfson)表示，布隆伯格将“从商业领袖和独立派人士的角度”为克林顿担保。
“As the nation’s leading independent and a pragmatic business leader, Mike has supported candidates from both sides of the aisle,” Wolfson said. “This week in Philadelphia he will make a strong case that the clear choice in this election is Hillary Clinton.”
“作为全美知名的独立派人士和务实的商业领袖，两党的候选人迈克都支持过，”沃尔夫森说。“本周，他将在费城提出充分的理由，证明本届选举中显而易见的选择是希拉里·克林顿。”
Bloomberg, who has been sharply critical of Trump’s views on immigration and the economy, may fortify Clinton’s appeal to the political center.
布隆伯格一直严厉批评特朗普在移民和经济问题上的观点。他可能会巩固克林顿对政治中间派的吸引力。
And with the Republican nominee basing his campaign on his background as a businessman, Bloomberg, a billionaire media executive and philanthropist, may help counter the Trump sales pitch.
共和党提名人特朗普将竞选建立在其作为商人的背景之上。在这种情况下，作为身家亿万的媒体高管和慈善家的布隆伯格或许有助于反击特朗普的这种推销辞令。
It is unusual, but not unheard of, for a speaker who is not a member of a political party to address that party’s convention. Bloomberg is expected to speak Wednesday, the same evening as President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden.
非党内成员在某政党的全国大会上发表演讲的情况颇为少见，但也并非闻所未闻。布隆伯格预计会与总统贝拉克·奥巴马及副总统乔·拜登(Joe Biden)一起，在周三傍晚发表演讲。
Bloomberg is not an entirely natural fit for the Democratic Party of 2016: Though he has been an energetic advocate on issues related to guns, immigration and climate change, he has been a vocal ally of the financial services industry and has defended the strict policing tactics his administration employed in New York.
对于2016年的民主党来说，布隆伯格并非完全合适的人选：尽管在枪支、移民和气候变化相关问题上是一位精力充沛的倡导人士，但他一直是金融服务行业的有力盟友，还为他领导的纽约市政府采取的严厉的治安手段辩解。
Jennifer Palmieri, Clinton’s communications director, said Bloomberg would bring to the convention “a unique and important voice that lays out the choice in this election.”
克林顿的通讯联络负责人珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)表示，布隆伯格将给大会带来“一种独特而重要的声音，阐明这次选举的选择对象。”