MANILA — Tens of thousands of Filipinos protested in Manila on Monday, outraged over accusations that an estimated $141 million in public money had been diverted into the coffers of politicians and their associates.
马尼拉——约1.41亿美元（约合8.63亿人民币）公款被转移到政治人物及其关系户账户的消息，令菲律宾人怒火高涨。本周一，数以万计的菲律宾人在马尼拉举行了抗议活动。
The peaceful four-hour rally was fueled in part by photographs posted on social media sites by the daughter of one of the suspects in the case, showing an extravagance that earned her the title “the new Imelda,” after the wife of the longtime dictator Ferdinand Marcos.
这次和平集会持续了四个小时，人们的怒火和其中一名涉案嫌疑人的女儿贴在社交网络上的照片有关，这些照片展示了其奢华无度的生活，为她带来了“新伊梅尔达”的称号；伊梅尔达(Imelda)是长期统治菲律宾的前独裁者费迪南德·马科斯(Ferdinand Marcos)的妻子。
President Benigno S. Aquino III, the fifth president since Marcos, has made fighting corruption a hallmark of his three-year-old administration. But scandals have persisted over extrajudicial killings by the police, sexual harassment by diplomats, and extortion and bribery within government agencies.
贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)是自马科斯以来的第五任菲律宾总统，就任三年来，惩治腐败已经成为了阿基诺政府的一个标志。但警察的法外处决，外交官进行性骚扰，政府机构敲诈和受贿的丑闻却仍在发生。
The one that drove protesters into the streets on Monday involved accusations in a government audit that members of Congress worked with associates to divert discretionary public funds to sham organizations and questionable projects in return for bribes.
令抗议者周一走上街头的丑闻，跟政府在审计工作中提出的指控有关：国会议员勾结关系户，任意把公共资金转移到虚假的组织和可疑的项目中，以换取贿赂。
The National Bureau of Investigation has issued an arrest warrant for a Manila businesswoman, Janet Lim-Napoles, who is suspected of having facilitated some of the corrupt transactions with lawmakers. Her passport has been revoked, and she is the subject of a nationwide search.
国家调查局(National Bureau of Investigation)发出了对马尼拉女商人珍妮特·林-纳波里斯(Janet Lim-Napoles)的逮捕令，因其涉嫌促成一些国会议员的腐败交易。现在林-纳波里斯在全国范围内遭到通缉，她的护照已被注销。
Ms. Lim-Napoles denied the accusations in news media interviews conducted before the warrant was issued, but public anger grew with the circulation of the photographs showing the lavish living of her daughter, Jeane Lim-Napoles, 23.
在逮捕令发出之前的一次新闻媒体采访中，林-纳波里斯否认了对她的指控，但是随着她的女儿，23岁的珍妮·林-纳波里斯(Jeane Lim-Napoles)炫耀奢侈生活的照片四下流传，公众的愤怒也相应增长。
The daughter, a fashion school graduate, sprinkled her Facebook, Twitter and other social media pages with photographs and videos of herself in London, Los Angeles and Paris. Other photos cataloged her luxury shoe collection and showed her sitting atop a Porsche, while a video of her 21st birthday party in Beverly Hills, Calif., showed expensive liquor and tables of sushi. She was also photographed with Justin Bieber and Justin Timberlake at the MTV Movie Awards.
珍妮·林-纳波里斯毕业于一所时装学校，她在Facebook、Twitter和其他社交媒体上发布了自己在伦敦、洛杉矶和巴黎拍摄照片和视频。还有一些照片展示了她拥有的各种奢侈鞋子，以及她坐在一辆保时捷车上，而她在加州比佛利山庄举办21岁生日派对的视频中，则出现了昂贵的美酒和一桌桌寿司。她还被拍到在MTV电影奖(MTV Movie Awards)颁奖礼上跟贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)和贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)在一起。
A series of corruption cases this year have involved a variety of government agencies.
今年曝光的一系列腐败案件涉及菲律宾多个政府部门。
In March, Sungjun Park, a fugitive hiding in the Philippines who was wanted in his native South Korea in connection with an investment scheme, casually left the Philippines via the Manila airport. Rather than capturing him, Philippine government agents assisted him in avoiding detection while immigration officers used their cellphones and looked the other way. The scene was captured by airport video cameras and broadcast nationwide in the Philippines.
今年三月，藏匿在菲律宾的韩国逃犯朴成俊（Sungjun Park，音译）轻松经过马尼拉机场离开了菲律宾。朴成俊因涉嫌投资诈骗，在韩国本土遭到通缉。菲律宾政府特工不仅没有逮捕他，还帮助他避开侦缉，而移民官员则在使用自己的手机，目光看向其他地方。这一幕被机场摄像头当场拍了下来，并在菲律宾全国范围内播放。
On July 23, the chief of the Philippine National Police announced that 14 officers were being detained in connection with the July 15 killing of two high-profile criminal suspects in their custody. There was speculation that the men were killed because they were going to disclose the names of corrupt police officers.
7月23日，菲律宾警察总长宣布拘捕14名警员，他们涉嫌在7月15日参与杀害两名被关押的嫌疑人。有人猜测，这两名备受瞩目的嫌疑人被杀害，是因为他们打算揭发腐败警察的名字。
Despite the scandals, Mr. Aquino has received praise from the World Bank, financial rating agencies and others for his efforts to combat corruption. He has pursued an anticorruption campaign that seeks to monitor more closely how public money is used, while at the same time aggressively investigating and prosecuting corrupt officials.
尽管出现了这些丑闻，阿基诺却因反腐行动受到了世界银行、金融评级机构和其他机构的赞誉。他的反腐行动落足在更加密切地监察公款使用情况上，同时也大刀阔斧地调查和起诉腐败官员。
In 2011, corruption charges were filed against his predecessor as president, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. That same year, the chief justice of the Supreme Court, who was appointed by Mrs. Arroyo, was impeached amid accusations that he had hidden wealth. The accusations of corrupt government programs have been bolstered by an exhaustive report by the Aquino administration’s auditing agency.
在2011年，前一任总统格洛丽亚·马卡帕加尔·阿罗约(Gloria Macapagal Arroyo)遭到腐败指控。同年，阿罗约任命的最高法院首席大法官由于瞒报财产被弹劾。阿基诺政府的审计机构还提供了一份详尽的报告，帮助指控政府项目中的腐败现象。
The latest Global Corruption Barometer report, produced by the anticorruption group Transparency International and released in July, found that 38 percent of Filipinos perceived corruption as having decreased significantly in the past two years. That is an improvement from 6 percent in 2010 and 2011. Of the 107 countries involved in the survey, the Philippines was one of 11 where respondents reported an improving situation.
今年七月，反腐败组织国际透明(Transparency International)发布了最新的《全球贪腐晴雨表》(Global Corruption Barometer)，该报告显示，38％的菲律宾人认为腐败现象在过去两年中大幅减少。在2010年和2011年，这个数字仅为6％。该报告涵盖的107个国家中，有11个国家的受访者表示状况有所好转，菲律宾就是其中之一。
The report also said that although the Aquino administration could point to some high-profile successes, it had not been as effective in changing the institutions of government.
该报告还表示，虽然阿基诺政府可以举出一些备受瞩目的成功案例，但在改变政府机构作风方面，反腐成效并不显著。
Vincent Lazatin, the executive director of the Transparency and Accountability Network, an anticorruption group, said that high-profile convictions did little to stop the rampant bribery and extortion within Philippine government agencies, including the Bureau of Customs, the Bureau of Internal Revenue and the police.
反腐组织“透明暨负责任网络”(Transparency and Accountability Network)总干事文森特·拉萨汀(Vince Lazatin)说，这些定罪判决虽然引人瞩目，但在海关、国税和警察部门等政府机构中，贿赂和勒索却依旧猖獗。
“There hasn’t been a trickle-down effect on everyday corruption,” he said. “The corrupt cop on the street, the corrupt customs official, they haven’t changed.”
“反腐行动的效果一直没有渗透到日常腐败活动中。”他说。“大街上的腐败警察，海关里的腐败官员，他们还是老样子。”