Shoppers here with a notion of what items cost abroad need to brace themselves when buying a Samsung Galaxy S4 phone: the same model that costs $615 in the United States is nearly double that in Brazil. An even bigger shock awaits parents needing a crib: the cheapest one at Tok & Stok costs over $440, more than six times the price of a similarly made item at Ikea in the United States.
在购买三星(Samsung)Galaxy S4手机时，了解国外物价的本地消费者必须做好准备：同款手机在美国售价为615美元（约合3800元人民币），而在巴西的售价几乎是这两倍。还有更令人震惊的事情等着需要买婴儿床的父母：Tok & Stok里最便宜的婴儿床售价超过440美元，是美国宜家(Ikea)类似做工的婴儿床价的六倍多。
For Brazilians seething with resentment over wasteful spending by the country’s political elite, the high prices they must pay for just about everything — a large cheese pizza can cost almost $30 — only fuel their ire.
对那些因憎恨该国政治精英的铺张浪费而愤愤不平的巴西人来说，必须为几乎所有东西支付的高价只会让他们更愤怒。一个大奶酪披萨几乎要花30美元。
“People get angry because we know there are ways to get things cheaper; we see it elsewhere, so we know there must be something wrong here,” said Luana Medeiros, 28, who works in the Education Ministry.
“生气是因为我们知道价格可以低一些；我们看到其他地方的物价标准，所以我们知道这里肯定有某种问题，”教育部(Education Ministry)28岁的工作人员卢瓦纳·梅代罗斯(Luana Medeiros)说。
Brazil’s street protests grew out of a popular campaign against bus fare increases. Residents of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro spend a much larger share of their salaries to ride the bus than residents of New York or Paris. Yet the price of transportation is just one example of the struggles that many Brazilians face in making ends meet, economists say.
巴西的街头抗议源于一场民众抗议公交票价上涨的运动。圣保罗和里约热内卢的居民乘坐公交车的花费占其工资的比例，远远高于纽约和巴黎的居民。但经济学家们表示，公共交通的票价只是许多巴西人在勉力保证收支相抵时面临的难题之一。
Before the protests, soaring prices for basic foods like tomatoes prompted parodies of President Dilma Rousseff and her economic advisers. Inflation stands at about 6.4 percent, with many in the middle class complaining that they are bearing the brunt of price increases. Limiting the authorities’ maneuvering room, the popular indignation is festering at a time when huge stimulus projects are failing to lift the economy from a slowdown, raising the specter of stagflation in Latin America’s largest economy.
抗议发生前，像西红柿这样的基本食物价格飙升，引发了对迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)总统和她的经济顾问的嘲弄。通货膨胀率高居6.4%上下，许多中产阶级抱怨自己正承受着涨价所带来的重负。在大型刺激计划无法让经济走出衰退的时候，民愤正在加剧，引发了对拉丁美洲这个最大经济体陷入滞涨的担忧，也限制了当局施展任何策略的余地
“Brazil is on the verge of recession now that the commodities boom is over,” said Luciano Sobral, an economist and a partner in a São Paulo asset management firm who maintains an irreverent economics blog under the name the Drunkeynesian. “This is making it impossible to ignore the high prices which plague Brazilians, especially those who cannot easily afford to travel abroad for buying sprees where things are cheaper.”
“商品热潮结束了，巴西正处在衰退的边缘，”经济学家、圣保罗一家资产管理公司的合伙人卢西亚诺·索布拉尔(Luciano Sobral)说，“这让人无法忽视困扰巴西人的高物价，尤其是那些无法轻松负担得起去国外物价更便宜的地方购物的人。”索布拉尔维护着一个名为The Drunkeynesian的经济学博客，言辞犀利。
Brazil’s sky-high costs can be attributed to an array of factors, including transportation bottlenecks that make it expensive to get products to consumers and protectionist policies that shield Brazilian manufacturers from competition.
巴西的高物价可以归咎于一系列因素，其中包括运输瓶颈和保护主义政策，运输瓶颈让产品运送至消费者这个过程成本高昂，而保护主义政策则让巴西生产商参与竞争。
But economists say much of the blame for the stunningly high prices can be placed on a dysfunctional tax system that prioritizes consumption taxes, which are relatively easy to collect, over income taxes.
但经济学家表示，运转不良的税收制度是造成惊人的高物价的主要原因，该制度将相对容易征收的消费税的重要性置于所得税之前。
Alexandre Versignassi, a writer who specializes in deciphering Brazil’s tax code, said companies were grappling with 88 federal, state and municipal taxes, a number of which are charged directly to consumers. Keeping accountants on their toes, the Brazilian authorities issue an estimated 46 new tax rules every day, he said.
专门解读巴西税收规定的作家亚历山大·韦尔西纳西(Alexandre Versignassi)说，企业要面对联邦、州和市征收的88种税，其中许多税都直接从消费者头上征收。他说，巴西当局每天估计会发布46项新的税收规定，这会计人员一直很忙。
Making matters worse for many poor and middle-class Brazilians, loopholes enable the rich to avoid taxation on much of their income; wealthy investors, for instance, can avoid taxes on dividend income, and partners in private companies are taxed at a much lower rate than many regular employees.
对巴西的许多穷人和中产阶级而言，更糟糕的是，税收制度上的漏洞让富人得以令自己的许多收入免于征税。比如，有钱投资者的股息收入可以免税，私企合伙人的税率也远低于许多普通雇员。
The result is that many products made in Brazil, like automobiles, cost much more here than in the far-flung countries that import them. One example is the Gol, a subcompact car produced by Volkswagen at a factory in the São Paulo metropolitan area. A four-door Gol with air-conditioning sells for about $16,100 here, including taxes. In Mexico, the equivalent model, made in Brazil but sold to Mexicans as the Nuevo Gol, costs thousands of dollars less.
结果是，巴西制造的许多产品，比如汽车，在国内的价格远高于远方进口这些产品的国家。其中一个例子是高尔(Gol)汽车，这是大众(Volkswagen)在圣保罗城区一家工厂生产的一款微型车。在巴西，一辆配备空调的四门高尔的含税价格约为1.61万美元。而在墨西哥，在巴西制造、但以新高尔(Nuevo Gol)之名面向墨西哥销售的相同车型的售价要便宜数千美元。
The ability of many Brazilians to afford such cars reflects positive economic changes over the past decade, like the rise of millions of people from grinding poverty and a decline in unemployment, which is now at historically low levels. Salaries climbed during that time, with per-capita income now about $11,630, as measured by the World Bank, compared with $6,990 in neighboring Colombia. But Brazil finds itself far below developed nations like Canada, where the per-capita income is $50,970.
许多巴西人能够买得起这种车反映出经济在过去十年发生的积极变化，比如，数百万人摆脱了极度贫困，失业率下降。失业率现在处于历史最低水平。在这段时期，工资水平上升，根据世界银行(World Bank)的估计，巴西现在的人均收入约为1.163万美元，相比之下，邻国哥伦比亚的人均收人只有6990美元。但巴西发现自己远远落后于发达国家，比如人均收入为5.097万美元的加拿大。
As a result, a resident of São Paulo, Brazil’s financial capital, has to work an average of 106 hours to buy an iPhone, while someone in Brussels labors 54 hours to buy the same product, according to a global study of wages by the investment bank UBS. To buy a Big Mac, a resident here has to work 39 minutes, compared with 11 minutes for a resident of Chicago.
结果就是，巴西金融之都圣保罗的居民平均得工作106个小时，才能买一部iPhone，而布鲁塞尔的居民工作54个小时便能买一部相同的手机，这是根据投资银行瑞银(UBS)对全球工资水平所做的研究得出的结果。为了买一份巨无霸(Big Mac)，圣保罗的居民必须工作39分钟，而芝加哥居民只需工作11分钟。
Stroll into any international airport in Brazil, and such imbalances are vividly on display, with thousands of residents packing into flights each day for shopping trips to countries where goods are substantially cheaper.
走进巴西的任何一座国际机场，这种不平衡都表现得淋漓尽致，每天都有数以千计的民众挤上飞机，去商品便宜得多的国家购物。
Even though the Brazilian currency, the real, has weakened against the dollar this year (it currently stands at about 2.20 to the dollar), Brazilians spent $2.2 billion abroad in May, the highest amount on record for the month since the central bank began tracking such data in 1969.
虽然今年巴西货币雷亚尔兑美元汇率走低（目前美元兑雷亚尔的汇率约为2.20），但5月，巴西人在海外的消费仍高达22亿美元，这是自1969年巴西中央银行开始跟踪类似数据以来的最高纪录。
Eyeing this market, some travel agents have begun tailoring trips to Miami for clients eager to buy baby products like digital monitors, strollers, pacifiers, even Pampers wipes, which in Brazil cost almost three times as much as in the United States.
觉察到市场需求，一些旅行社开始为渴望买数字监控器、婴儿车、奶嘴、甚至帮宝适(Pampers)湿巾等婴儿用品的顾客量身定制迈阿密之旅。这些东西在巴西的售价几乎是在美国的三倍。
Seeking to prevent such shopping binges from getting out of control, the federal police screen travelers upon arrival, picking out people whose luggage appears to bulge with too many items. If it can be proved that Brazilians spent over a certain limit abroad, they are immediately forced to pay taxes on their purchases.
为了防止这种购物热潮失控，旅客一抵达巴西，联邦警察便会对他们进行筛查，挑出那些行李看上去鼓鼓囊囊装了太多东西的人。如果能证明这些巴西人在国外的支出超出了特定的限度，他们会立即被要求为购买的东西交税。
Before the protests began, Brazil’s government had begun trying to combat price increases. The central bank raised interest rates after an uproar over food prices this year contributed to inflation fears. The authorities removed some taxes on some products, like cars. Even so, inflation remains high while the economy remains sluggish, leaving many Brazilians fuming about the high taxes embedded in the price of products they buy.
在抗议开始前，巴西政府已开始尝试抑制物价上涨。今年，在食品价格引起的骚乱导致了对通货膨胀的担忧后，央行提高了利率。当局取消了对包括汽车在内的部分产品的部分税收。尽管如此，通货膨胀依然居高不下，经济依然低迷，这让许多巴西人对包含在他们所买商品价格里面的高税收很是愤怒。