Jonathan Wajskol, an Italian graphic designer who moved to the United States about three decades ago, has a life with all the hallmarks of an immigrant success story: graduate studies at an American university; a successful international firm with partners in Milan and Beijing; and a residence in Greenwich Village that he shares with his wife and two children.
乔纳森·瓦斯科(Jonathan Wajskol)是一名意大利籍平面设计师，大约30年前移居美国，他拥有一个成功移民故事的所有特征：在一所美国大学攻读了研究生学位，拥有一家成功的跨国公司，与米兰和北京的生意伙伴合作，在格林威治村拥有一处房产，与妻子和两个孩子生活在一起。
One thing he does not have, however, is American citizenship — and that is a deliberate choice. Mr. Wajskol has a green card, but he has never applied for citizenship and is not interested. His reasons, he said, go to the heart of his identity.
不过，他唯一缺少的就是美国国籍——这是他经过考虑做出的选择。瓦斯科有绿卡，但是从来没有申请公民身份，对公民身份也不感兴趣。他说，这与他内心深处的身份认同感有关。
“I would feel that if I get the American citizenship, I would feel a little less Italian,” he explained. “I really don’t feel American.”
他解释说，如果我获得了美国的公民身份，我的意大利人的身份认同感就会减少一点。我真的不觉得自己是美国人。
For many people around the world, a United States passport is a near-sacred goal, and given half a chance to get one, they would hungrily seize it. In Washington, the partisan debate over immigration has become mired, in part, over whether to provide a path to citizenship for the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the United States.
对于全世界许多人来说，拥有美国护照是一个梦想，哪怕有一线希望，他们都会如饥似渴地奋力争取。在华盛顿，有关移民问题的党派辩论已经陷入僵局，其中就包括是否向美国大约1100万没有证件的移民提供公民身份的问题。
But even as legions here and abroad pin their hopes on becoming American, and the country wrestles with emotionally fraught questions over who should have that right, there is a seemingly contradictory truth: that millions of people who are in the country legally, and stand on the threshold of citizenship, never take that next step.
但是，就在美国以及世界各地的移民军团希望成为美国人、美国也在纠结于谁应该获得这个权利的同时，却出现了一个看起来与之矛盾的事实：在美国拥有合法居留权的数百万人不愿申请公民身份，虽然他们距离公民身份仅有一步之遥。
According to some estimates, about 40 percent of all people who hold green cards, the gateway to citizenship, do not naturalize.
根据一些统计，持有绿卡的人中，大约40%没有申请入籍。
Of those, many may want to apply but are deterred by a variety of reasons, including the $680 application fee or the requirement that most applicants must prove they can read, write and speak basic English, immigrants’ advocates said. Some countries — including Japan, China and Iran — generally do not permit their citizens to acquire a second nationality, forcing a difficult choice.
这其中许多人可能想要申请入籍，但是因为各种原因没有采取行动，比如680美元的申请费用，以及大多数申请人必须证明自己有基本英语读写和口语能力的要求。日本、中国和伊朗等国家通常不允许公民拥有双重国籍，这也让移民们非常难以做出选择。
But alongside those potential applicants, there is a vast population of green card holders who have everything they need to naturalize, including the language skills, money, sufficient time of residence in the United States, permission from their native countries and a clean criminal record. All they lack is the desire.
但是除了这些潜在的申请人，还有大量绿卡持有人具备了入籍所需的一切条件，包括语言能力、经济实力、在美国的居住时间，原籍国家的许可，以及无犯罪记录。他们唯一缺少的就是入籍的意愿。
They simply do not want it — or want it enough — and cite various reasons, including an overriding patriotism for their native country, disaffection for the policies of the United States government, even simple fecklessness.
他们只是不想入籍——或者入籍的想法还不够强烈，他们的理由五花八门，比如对自己祖国的热爱，或是对美国政府政策的厌恶，甚至还有单纯的懒惰。
“So often in textbooks about immigration, the cover illustration is the naturalization ceremony with the American flag and a group of immigrants, highly diverse by race,” said Alan Hyde, a Rutgers University professor who teaches immigration law and was a co-author of a recent study about why some people do not naturalize. “So much that is written on immigration just assumes that they come, they assimilate, they get green cards and they naturalize.”
罗格斯大学教授移民法的教授阿兰·海德(Alan Hyde)说，“移民教科书的封面上往往都印着入籍仪式的插图，上面绘有美国国旗和一群来自不同种族的移民。”海德教授最近参与编写了一份有关一些人为何不入籍的研究报告。他说，“目前太多关于移民的论述都想当然地认为，他们来到美国，进行同化，获得绿卡，然后就会入籍。”
But, he added, a different reality exists for so many other immigrants — those who do not want to naturalize. “Most people don’t know it’s a distinctive feature of America,” Mr. Hyde said.
他补充说，但对许多其他移民来说，存在着另一种现实，那就是他们不想入籍。海德说，大多数人不知道这是美国移民的一个与众不同之处。
For Mr. Wajskol (pronounced VYE-skole), whose wife and children are American citizens, the question of naturalization bubbled up from time to time. He even filled out the paperwork, he said. But he never followed through.
对于瓦斯科来说，入籍的问题总是时不时地冒出来，因为他的妻子和孩子都是美国公民。他说，他甚至填了申请表格。但是没有继续完成申请。
“I don’t have an Italian name, so as it is, I have a slight identity crisis,” he said. “Being American would taint my Italianness a little bit more.”
他说，“我没有意大利的名字，因此，我有轻度的身份认同危机。成为美国人会更加影响我的意大利身份认同感。”
If he has one misgiving about his position, he said, it would be that he cannot fully participate in the American electoral process. Only citizens have the right to vote in federal elections and in most local elections.
他说，如果说他对目前的状态有一点不满，那就是他不能充分参与美国选举。只有美国公民有权利在联邦大选和大多数地方选举中投票。
But aside from that, Mr. Wajskol said: “I really have everything that I need. I am treated pretty much just like a citizen.”
但是除此之外，瓦斯科说，我真的已经有了我需要的一切。我的待遇和公民没太大区别。
Lawful permanent residents are eligible to apply for naturalization after meeting certain requirements, including a minimum length of residency, which for most candidates is five years.
合法的永久居民在满足了特定的要求之后有资格申请入籍，这些条件包括最短居住时间，这对于大多数移民来说是五年。
In the meantime, they have many of the same rights and obligations as citizens, including permission to work. They are also bound by largely the same tax rules.
与此同时，他们与公民拥有许多同样的权利和义务，包括工作许可。他们基本上也需要缴纳同样的税费。
But in addition to limited or no voting rights, lawful permanent residents cannot make their home in a foreign country or remain outside the United States for extended periods of time, except in specific circumstances. They are ineligible, in many cases, for Civil Service jobs and certain government assistance. They can sponsor fewer types of family members for visas than can citizens. And they can be deported for violating any of a wide variety of laws.
但是除了投票权利有限或完全没有投票权，除非在特殊情况下，合法的永久居民还无法在国外定居，或是在美国之外逗留太长时间。在许多情况下，他们没有资格担任公职和获得某些政府补助。与公民相比，他们能够担保申请签证的家庭成员类型更少。而且如果他们违反了诸多法律中的任何一条，就有可能被驱逐出境。
Still, none of these disadvantages has been enough to compel many lawful permanent residents to stand and take the oath of allegiance.
尽管如此，这些劣势并不足以迫使许多合法的永久性居民发誓效忠美国。
Xiaoning Wang, who was born in Beijing and moved to New York City in 1994, owns ChinaSprout, a company that distributes Chinese cultural and educational products. She has a green card yet no urge to naturalize.
出生于北京的王晓宁1994年移居纽约，目前是中国文化和教育产品发行公司中国萌芽(ChinaSprout)的所有人。她有绿卡，但并不想入籍。
“I love New York, I love the United States, I love everything here and the opportunity that I have in this country,” said Ms. Wang, who is married to a German and has German nationality. “I just don’t see the advantage” of being naturalized, she added.
王女士说，“我爱纽约，我爱美国，我爱这里的一切和这个国家给我的机会。”王小宁的丈夫是德国人，因此她拥有德国国籍。她还说，“我看不出入籍有什么好处。”
Alain De Beaufort, a Colombian with a green card, moved to the United States six years ago and married an American; they now have two American-born children and live in Brooklyn.
持有绿卡的哥伦比亚人阿兰·博福特(Alain De Beaufort)六年前移居美国，后来和一个美国人结了婚，他们的两个孩子在美国出生，全家居住在布鲁克林。
For a while, he said, laziness thwarted any vague interest in naturalizing. But his ennui has given way to a more profound reason: a growing disillusionment with the United States, particularly its foreign policy.
他说，一段时间以来，懒惰战胜了他对入籍的微弱兴趣。但是慢慢的，除了懒惰之外，一个更深层次的原因逐渐形成：他对美国，尤其是美国的外交政策越来越感到失望。
When he was growing up in Latin America, the United States and the idea of American citizenship were very attractive, he said. But in recent years, he said, he has opposed aspects of American foreign policy, including practices at the Guantánamo detention center and the expanded use of drones for targeted strikes. As a result, his view of the country has shifted.
他说，他成长在拉丁美洲，美国和美国身份当时非常有吸引力。但是最近几年，他开始反对美国的一些外交政策，包括美国在关塔那摩湾拘押中心的做法、以及越来越多的无人机定点清除行动。因此，他对这个国家的看法已经改变。
“It’s not as glamorous to be a U.S. citizen anymore,” said Mr. De Beaufort, a writer and restaurant server. “It doesn’t seem to be that cool anymore.”
作家兼餐厅招待博福特说，“成为美国公民不那么令人向往了，看起来也不那么酷了。”
But Mr. De Beaufort allowed that the conveniences of citizenship might eventually trump his idealism. Indeed, while the people who naturalized in 2012 spent a median of seven years with a green card before naturalizing, according to the federal government, some waited much longer.
但博福特承认，公民身份带来的种种便利在未来也许会战胜他的理想主义。的确，根据联邦政府的数字，尽管2012年入籍的移民在入籍前持有绿卡的平均时间是七年，有些人等待的时间要长得多。
And from time to time even the most stalwart nationalists from other countries can find their positions crumble overnight.
即使是最坚定的民族主义者也会发现，他们的立场有时会在瞬间瓦解。
Claudine Moore, who was born and raised in the United Kingdom and moved to the United States in 1999, said that for years, much as she enjoyed living in this country, she had no interest in becoming an American citizen. “I’m very much attached to my Britishness and my love and pride in being British,” explained Ms. Moore, founder of C. Moore Media, an international public relations firm based in New York.
克劳迪·摩尔(Claudine Moore)在英国出生成长，1999年移居美国，她说，多年以来，尽管她非常喜欢居住在这个国家，她对成为美国公民却不感兴趣。摩尔说，“我对英国有很强的归属感，我热爱我的英国身份，并为此感到骄傲。”摩尔是总部位于纽约的跨国公关公司C. Moore Media的创始人。
But as Barack Obama began to emerge as a possible candidate for the Democratic nomination in the 2008 presidential campaign, she changed her mind and applied to naturalize — just to vote for him.
但是随着奥巴马在2008年的总统大选中崭露头角，并有望成为民主党提名的候选人，她改变了主意，申请入籍——这完全是为了给奥巴马投票。
Her sister, who is married to an American citizen, was moved to do the same thing. “Her husband didn’t persuade her,” Ms. Moore said, “but the prospect of a black president did!”
她的妹妹已经嫁给了一名美国人，也采取了同样的行动。摩尔说，“她的丈夫没能说服她，但是黑人成为总统的可能性说服了她！”