KIEV, Ukraine — Enraged by a violent crackdown by security forces, Ukrainians took to the streets with new, revolutionary urgency on Sunday, with hundreds of thousands of protesters demanding the resignation of President Viktor F. Yanukovich and a realignment of the country away from Russia toward Europe.
乌克兰基辅——周日，被安全部队的暴力镇压激怒的乌克兰人带着一种新的、革命性的紧迫感走上街头。数以十万计的抗议者要求总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovich)辞职，并呼吁乌克兰调整战略，摆脱俄罗斯，向欧洲靠拢。
“I want the authorities to know that this is not a protest; this is a revolution!” Yuri V. Lutsenko, a former interior minister and an organizer of the Orange Revolution nine years ago, told a vast crowd here in Independence Square that many observers said outstripped even the biggest gatherings in 2004.
尤里·V·卢岑科(Yuri V. Lutsenko)在此地的独立广场对众多抗议者喊话，“我想让当局知道，这不是一次抗议；这是一场革命。”卢岑科曾任内务部长，是9年前橙色革命(Orange Revolution)的组织者之一。众多观察人士称，此次抗议的规模甚至超过了2004年规模最大的集会。 
“Revolution!” the crowd roared back. “Revolution!”
“革命！”人群大声回应道，“革命！”
Eleven days of intensifying protests over Mr. Yanukovich’s refusal to sign political and free trade accords with the European Union have now directly shaken the president’s prospects of remaining in power. Cracks have begun to emerge in his political base: his chief of administration was reported to have resigned, and a few members of Parliament quit his party and decried the police violence.
这轮日益激烈的抗议活动已经持续了11天，起因是亚努科维奇拒绝与欧盟签订政治及自由贸易协定。目前，抗议活动已直接动摇了总统继续执政的前景。他的政治基础已经开始出现裂痕，他的总统行政办公室主任据说已经辞职，还有几名国会议员退出了他所在的政党，并公开谴责警方的暴行。
Many Ukrainians see the agreements with Europe as crucial steps toward a brighter economic and political future, and as a way to break free from the grip of Russia and from Ukraine’s Soviet past. Now, the outcry over Mr. Yanukovich’s abandonment of the accords is pushing Russia into a corner.
在许多乌克兰人看来，与欧洲签订协议，不仅是通往更光明经济和政治前景的关键步骤，还是乌克兰摆脱俄罗斯掌控及前苏联历史的一条大道。现在，对亚努科维奇放弃协议的强烈抗议，正把俄罗斯逼入死角。
The Kremlin, which has supported Mr. Yanukovich as a geopolitical ally for years despite its frequent annoyance with him, used aggressive pressure to persuade him not to sign the accords. Now the anger over Russia’s role has made it all but impossible for Mr. Yanukovich to take the alternative offered by the Kremlin — joining a customs union with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. Any compromise with the protesters would have to revive the accords with Europe, and reduce Russia’s sway.
俄罗斯政府大力施压，劝说亚努科维奇不要签署协议。尽管亚努科维奇频频惹恼俄方，然而多年以来，俄罗斯政府一直支持他，把他当做地缘政治的盟友。事到如今，俄罗斯的影响触发了这样的愤怒情绪，让亚努科维奇几乎不可能再接受俄方提供的选择，即加入由俄罗斯、白俄罗斯和哈萨克斯坦组成的关税联盟。对抗议者的任何让步，都必将导致乌克兰恢复与欧洲的协定，削弱俄罗斯的影响力。
Even as Mr. Yanukovich was said to be considering declaring a state of emergency, parliamentary leaders began contemplating various ways to curtail his powers, rather than remove him from office entirely. Volodymy Rybak, the speaker of the Parliament, which is controlled by Mr. Yanukovich’s Party of Regions, on Sunday called for “round-table talks” to help resolve the crisis. Similar talks were conducted in 2004 to resolve the disputes that set off the Orange Revolution.
据说，亚努科维奇正考虑宣布国家进入紧急状态，即便如此，国会领袖们还是开始考虑用各种办法遏制他的权力，而不是把他彻底赶下台。乌克兰议会受亚努科维奇所在的地区党(Party of Regions)控制，议长弗拉基米尔·雷巴克(Volodymy  Rybak)周日呼吁举行“圆桌会议”，来帮助化解危机。2004年，乌克兰举行了类似的谈判以解决引发橙色革命的冲突。
The steady escalation of the protests — and the threat of further violent crackdowns — has created a volatile situation that showed no sign of abating.
抗议的稳步升级，以及进行更多暴力镇压的威胁，已经形成一触即发的局面，也没有任何迹象显示局势会有所缓解。
More violence erupted Sunday afternoon when demonstrators clashed with a battalion of police officers guarding the presidential administration building. Smoke bombs and stun grenades were set off, and the police responded with tear gas.
周日下午，当示威者和守卫总统行政大楼的大批警察发生冲突时，更多的暴力随之爆发。示威者点燃了烟雾弹和震爆弹，警方则以催泪弹作出回应。
The authorities reported Sunday night that about a hundred police officers and more than 50 protesters were injured, including some with burns to their eyes from tear gas. Witnesses said that some protesters, including women, were beaten brutally.
当局在周日晚间称，约有100名警察和50多名示威者受伤，其中一些人被催泪弹灼伤了眼睛。目击者称，包括女性在内的一些示威者遭到残酷殴打。
The police made scattered arrests, but did not immediately release a tally.
警方零星拘捕了一些抗议者，但没有立即公布被捕人数。
Protest leaders said they intended to make Mr. Yanukovich a prisoner in his own capital on Monday, with streets blocked, government buildings surrounded or occupied and possibly a general strike by workers and students. A map was posted on Facebook showing supporters where to put their vehicles to obstruct traffic.
抗议领袖称，他们的目的是在周一时，让亚努科维奇成为本国首都的一名囚犯。届时，他们会封锁街道，包围或占领政府大楼，工人和学生还可能罢工罢课。有人在Facebook上贴出了一张地图，向支持抗议者展示了停放车辆以阻断交通的各个位置。
By Sunday evening, demonstrators had taken police barriers meant to keep them out of Independence Square and repositioned them to mark their own control of a large area in the city center.
截至周日傍晚，示威者夺取了警察用来阻止他们进入独立广场的路障，将其重新摆放，用来标记他们在市中心控制的一大片区域。
There were demonstrations in cities like Lviv and Chernivtsi, in the generally pro-European western part of Ukraine, and also in the predominantly Russian-speaking east, which tends to favor close ties with Moscow and where Mr. Yanukovich has his main base of support. Several thousand people rallied in Dnipropetrovsk in the southeast, defying a court order banning a protest there. Even in Donetsk, Mr. Yanukovich’s hometown in the east, hundreds rallied in favor of European integration.
不仅在利沃夫和切尔尼夫齐等总体上亲欧洲的乌克兰西部城市出现了示威活动，在以俄语为主、更倾向于和莫斯科建立紧密联系的东部也出现了类似的活动。后者正是支持亚努科维奇的大本营。在东南部的第聂伯罗彼得罗夫斯克，数千人不顾禁止游行的法令进行了集会。即使是在东部的亚努科维奇的家乡顿涅茨克，也有数百人聚集起来要求与欧洲融合。
Serhiy Lyovochkin, the chief of the presidential administration staff, reportedly resigned on Saturday over the crackdown. At least five lawmakers from the Party of Regions spoke out forcefully against the police violence, and at least two, David Zhvania and Inna Bohoslovska, said they had quit the party. Ms. Bohoslovska sent a text message to a protest leader, Yegor Sobolev, telling him: “If I can be useful, I am here. Let’s go to the rally.”
总统行政办公室主任谢尔盖·列沃奇金(Serhiy Lyovochkin)据说已因镇压行动于周六辞职。至少有五名地区党的议员站出来表示对警察暴行的强烈反对，至少有两名——戴维·日瓦尼亚(David Zhvania)和因娜·博戈斯洛夫斯卡娅(Inna Bohoslovska)——宣布，他们已经退出了该党。博戈斯洛夫斯卡娅给抗议活动的领导人叶戈尔·索博列夫(Yegor Sobolev)发了短信，告诉他：“如果用得上我，我随叫随到。让我们集结起来。”
There were signs that some of Ukraine’s wealthiest business leaders, known as oligarchs, were turning against Mr. Yanukovich as well, or at least were positioning themselves for a major shift in the government. Mr. Sobolev said that a television channel owned by Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine’s richest man, invited him to appear in prime time, which he took to be an effort by Mr., Akhmetov to reach out to the opposition.
有迹象显示，被称为寡头的乌克兰最富裕的商界领袖中，也有一些开始反对亚努科维奇，或者说至少准备好迎接政府内的一场大变革。索博列夫说，乌克兰首富里纳特·艾哈迈托夫(Rinat Akhmetov)旗下的一个电视频道邀请他在一档黄金时段的节目中出镜。他认为，这表明艾哈迈托夫试图与反对派进行交流。
The Orange Revolution in 2004 also centered on mass protests against Mr. Yanukovich, in response to blatant election fraud that made him the easy winner of the presidential election that year, contradicting early returns and exit polls that showed him losing to Viktor A. Yushchenko. The protests led to a new election that Mr. Yushchenko won, but Mr. Yanukovich made a comeback in 2010, defeating Yulia V. Tymoshenko, the former prime minister. Ms. Tymoshenko has since been prosecuted and imprisoned for abuse of authority.
2004年的橙色革命也以反对亚努科维奇的大规模抗议活动为主，针对的是当年总统选举中明目张胆的舞弊行为。前期结果和出口民调显示的，他落后于维克托·A·尤先科(Viktor A. Yushchenko)，但与之相左的是，他轻易获胜。那些抗议活动导致选举重新进行，并以尤先科获胜告终。但是，亚努科维奇2010年卷土重来，击败了前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)。季莫申科之后被公诉，并以滥用职权的罪名入狱。
Although Mr. Yanukovich condemned the police violence on Saturday and promised an investigation, his government drew heavy international criticism, including from the United States.
虽然亚努科维奇周六谴责了警察的暴行，并承诺进行调查，他领导的政府却受到包括美国在内的国际社会的强烈谴责。
The chief of the Kiev police, Valery Koryak, submitted his resignation on Sunday, saying he had given the order to use force, though it was not clear whether he had control over the officers involved. The interior minister, Vitaliy Zakharchenko, did not accept the resignation, but said he was suspending Mr. Koryak pending the investigation.
基辅的警察局长瓦列里·科里亚克(Valery Koryak)周日递交了辞呈，自称是他下达了动用武力的命令。不过，他是否有权调遣相关的警察还不得而知。内务部长维塔利·扎哈尔琴科(Vitaliy Zakharchenko)没有接受他的辞呈，但表示在等待调查期间暂停科里亚克的职务。
Mr. Zakharchenko also publicly apologized for the use of excessive force, but his apology did little to ease public outrage.
扎哈尔琴科同时也对过度使用武力公开致歉，但他的道歉对缓和人们的怒火几乎无济于事。
Unlike the protests of 2004, which focused on installing a particular leader, the current protests stem from the thwarted ambitions of millions of Ukrainians who view integration with Europe as a step toward eliminating rampant corruption, overhauling the justice system and generally improving the standard of living.
2004年的抗议主要是为了让一位具体的领导人就任，而当前的情况则有所不同，其根源是数以百万计乌克兰人所追求的目标受到了阻挠。他们认为，与欧洲的融合将会有助于消除猖獗的腐败现象、全面改革司法体系，并从总体上提高生活水品。
“People are not on the street to support exact politicians,” Mr. Sobolev said. “There are even a lot of people who said we don’t need politicians. The general opinion was something closer to the American and European ideal — that the real power should be citizens, not ministers, not presidents, not politicians.”
“人们走上街头并不是为了支持某些政客，”索博列夫说，“甚至有很多人表示，我们不需要政客。普遍的观点接近于美国和欧洲的理念：真正的权力应当属于公民，而不是部长、总统或政客。”