There are many ways to demolish a building, and some of them are spectacular: blowing it up from the inside so it collapses on itself, or smashing it to bits with a two-ton wrecking ball.
拆除一栋大楼有许多方法，其中一些场面壮观：从内部爆破，让大楼自行坍塌，或者用一个两吨重的落锤把大楼砸成碎片。
But here in Tokyo, a cheek-by-jowl city with many outdated high-rises and tough recycling and environmental restrictions, Japanese companies are perfecting what might be called stealth demolition. Some tall buildings are dismantled from the top down, the work hidden by a moving scaffold, others from the bottom up, the entire structure being slowly jacked down.
但拥挤的东京有许多过时的高层建筑，在回收利用和环境方面也有严格限制。在这里，日本公司正在完善一些堪称“隐形拆除”的方法。一些高层建筑从上往下拆除，拆除工作隐藏在移动的棚架后面，而其他建筑自下而上拆除，整栋楼用千斤顶慢慢降低。
At times the techniques seem to defy gravity, or at least common sense, for although the buildings appear intact, they slowly shrink. The methods, which make for a cleaner and quieter work site, may eventually find favor in New York and other cities as aging skyscrapers become obsolete and the best solution is to take them down and rebuild.
有时，这些方法似乎违反了地心引力规律，或者至少有违常识，因为那些建筑虽然看似毫发无损，但却在慢慢收缩。这些方法能让工地更干净，更安静。随着老旧建筑变得过时，且最好的解决办法是将它们推倒重建，这些技术最终可能会在纽约以及其他城市得到青睐。
The latest Tokyo high-rise to get the stealth treatment is the Akasaka Prince Hotel, a 40-story tower with a distinctive saw-toothed facade overlooking one of the city’s bustling commercial districts. Since last fall, its steel and concrete innards have been torn apart, floor by floor, starting near the top, by hydraulic shears and other heavy equipment. The building has been shrinking by about two floors every 10 days; this month it will be gone, to be replaced by two new towers.
东京最近一栋受到隐形拆除处理的高楼是赤坂王子酒店(Akasaka Prince Hotel)，这是一栋40层的高楼，其正面很独特，呈锯齿状，俯视着东京繁华的商业区之一。自去年秋天以来，大楼内部的钢筋混凝土结构就一直在被逐层拆除，从接近楼顶的楼层开始，采用液压剪和其他一些重型设备。大楼每10天收缩大约两层楼；本月，整栋大楼将彻底消失，取而代之的将是两栋新楼。
Hideki Ichihara, a manager with Taisei Corporation, which developed the system being used to tear down the hotel, said the technique had environmental benefits and allowed for more efficient separation of metal, concrete and other recyclable materials. Another advantage is visual: The vanishing building looks normal for as long as possible. “We want people not to really see the demolition work,” he said.
拆除赤坂王子酒店所用的系统是由大成建设株式会社(Taisei Corporation)研发的。该公司一位名为市原秀纪(Hideki Ichihara)的经理表示，这种方法能带来环境效益，而且能够对金属、混凝土和其他可回收材料进行更高效率的分离。另一个优点是视觉上的：正在逐渐消失的建筑在尽可能长的时间里看似什么都没发生。“我们不想让人们真的看到拆毁作业，”他说。
Mr. Ichihara was speaking in the bowels of the hotel on a late winter day while, about 250 feet above, workers were demolishing two floors, removing the exterior aluminum and glass, cutting up the steel beams and pulverizing the concrete slabs. But none of the work was visible to passers-by — the top four floors were shrouded in a scaffold that hung from the intact roof and was covered in panels that mimicked the facade.
市原秀纪是在冬末的一天在这家酒店内部说这番话的，当时，在他头顶250英尺（约76米）的地方，工人们正在拆除两个楼层，他们拆下外部的铝和玻璃，切割钢梁，粉碎混凝土块。但路人看不到任何拆除作业——最上面的四层被一个棚架包了起来，棚架套在完好的楼顶上，表层覆盖着模仿酒店外观的面板。
When the two floors are gone, the roof and scaffold cap slowly descends, thanks to computer-controlled jacks on each of 15 temporary columns. Then the columns are lowered into new positions, and the workers start taking apart the next two floors.
那两层楼被拆除后，借助15根临时柱子上由计算机控制的千斤顶，楼顶和棚架顶盖慢慢下降。然后，这些柱子被转移到下面楼层的新位置，工人们开始拆除接下来的两层楼。
The cap helps keep noise and dust down compared with more conventional methods of demolishing tall buildings, which involve erecting a scaffold all the way up and around the structure but leaving the top exposed. “All the work is inside the covered area,” Mr. Ichihara said. “The noise level is 20 decibels lower than the conventional way, and there’s 90 percent less dust leaving the area.”
拆除高层建筑的更传统方法是在建筑物周围搭建覆盖整栋楼立面的脚手架，但让楼顶暴露在外。相比之下，棚架顶盖能降低噪音，减少粉尘。“所有作业都在有盖的区域进行，”市原秀纪说，“噪音水平比传统方法低20分贝，施工区域排放的粉尘减少了90%。”
Aside from the cap, though, the Taisei system is similar to other methods in that the structure is taken apart from the top down. Another Japanese company, Kajima Corporation, has developed a bottom-up approach, cutting a building’s steel columns at ground level and jacking the entire structure down as each floor is removed. Since all the demolition work is done on or near the ground, there is no need to place heavy equipment, or workers, at the top of the building.
不过，除了棚架顶盖外，大成建设株式会社的系统和其他方法相似，都是从上往下拆除大楼的。另一家日本公司鹿岛建设株式会社(Kajima Corporation)则开发出一种自下而上的拆除办法，即在底楼对大楼的钢柱进行切割，拆除一个楼层后，用千斤顶降低整栋建筑。由于所有拆除作业都在地面或靠近地面的地方进行，因此不需要在大楼的顶部安放重型设备，或部署工人。
“The idea is to keep the building as intact as possible,” said Ryo Mizutani, an official with Kajima, which in January finished demolishing a 24-story office tower, the Resona Maruha building, near the Imperial Gardens. Huge hydraulic jacks supported the building’s 40 columns, and workers cut 30 inches from each column, over and over, to allow the structure to be slowly lowered.
“我们的想法是，让大楼尽量保持完整，”鹿岛建设株式会社一位名叫水谷良(Ryo Mizutani)的负责人说。该公司在1月完成了皇宫附近里索那玛璐哈大厦(Resona Maruha)的拆除，那是一栋24层的办公大楼。巨型液压千斤顶支撑着大楼的40根柱子，工人们每次把柱子切去30英寸（约合76厘米），以便让整栋楼慢慢降低。
The Resona Maruha building was completed in 1978, the Akasaka Prince tower in 1982. Ordinarily, a building that is 30 or 40 years old should have many years of life left, if properly maintained. The Empire State Building, for example, is 82 and doing just fine after major renovation work.
里索那玛璐哈大厦建于1978年，赤坂王子酒店建于1982年。一座30、40年的老建筑，如果能得到适当维护，通常应该还有多年的使用寿命。比如，已有82年历史的帝国大厦(Empire State Building)在经过大规模装修后，仍然运行良好。
But the Tokyo buildings fell victim to the vagaries of commercial real estate here, where high property values, changing design standards and other factors have conspired to create a bull market for demolition.
但东京的建筑物受到变化无常的商业地产市场的影响，高房价、不断演变的设计标准和其他因素共同营造了兴旺的拆除市场。
The boom in Japan’s economy in the 1970s spawned scores of dull, cookie-cutter office towers in Tokyo. Now many of those buildings are obsolete, with relatively low ceilings (height standards were increased in 1990) that have become even more cramped by having to accommodate the infrastructure of information technology.
20世纪70年代，日本经济的繁荣发展促使东京出现了大量沉闷、雷同的建筑物。如今，其中很多建筑物已经变得陈旧，由于要安装信息技术设备，那些相对低矮的天花板（层高标准在1990年上调）使室内空间变得更加局促。
The Akasaka Prince, a gleaming showpiece designed by one of Japan’s most famous architects, the modernist Kenzo Tange, had low ceilings, too, but it also succumbed to economic pressures brought on by the influx of more upscale hotels run by foreign companies. (The new complex to be built on the site will include office and retail space, residences and, on the top floors of a 590-foot tower, luxury hotel suites.)
赤坂王子酒店是由日本最著名的建筑师之一、现代主义风格的丹下健三(Kenzo Tange)设计的，这栋外观闪亮的建筑物的天花板也比较低矮。随着越来越多外资高档酒店涌入东京，这家酒店终于被经济压力压垮。（原地将建起新的建筑群，包括写字楼和零售面积，住宅大楼，在高达590英尺的大楼的最上面几层还会有豪华酒店套房。）
Tokyo’s situation may be unique, but New York and other cities may eventually face the need to demolish some high-rises. A recent study by Terrapin Bright Green, a New York consulting firm, suggested that many office towers in Manhattan needed to be overhauled or demolished. These structures were built from the late 1950s to the early ’70s and have low ceilings, tight column spacing that limits floor layouts, and inefficient heating and cooling systems.
东京的情况可能是独一无二的，但纽约和其他城市或许最终也会面临拆除一些高楼的需要。纽约咨询公司Terrapin Bright Green最近的一份研究指出，曼哈顿的很多办公大楼需要全面整修或者拆除。这些建筑是在20世纪50年代末到70年代初期间建成的，天花板比较低矮，柱距较窄（致使楼面布局受限），供暖和空调系统效率低下。
It is unclear whether demolition contractors in the United States will adopt any of the Japanese methods; even in Tokyo many buildings are demolished in more conventional ways. (With the new techniques, setting up the project can be more expensive, but the demolition often takes less time than with conventional methods.)
目前还不清楚美国的拆除承包商是否会采用日本的方法，即便是在东京，很多建筑物也是用较为传统的方法拆除的。（若采用新方法，筹备项目的成本会比较高，但拆除作业往往比传统方法省时。）
Bill Moore, a past president of the National Demolition Association and marketing director of Brandenburg Industrial Services, a demolition company, said that an Italian contractor had tried to interest American companies in a top-cap system that is similar to Taisei’s, to little effect. “Our environmental regulations are not that strict,” Mr. Moore said, and dust can be effectively contained by spraying with water.
全国拆除协会(National Demolition Association)前主席、拆除公司——勃兰登堡产业服务公司(Brandenburg Industrial Service)市场总监比尔·穆尔(Bill Moore)表示，一家意大利承包商曾试图向美国公司兜售一种与大成建设类似的顶部加盖系统，但收效甚微。穆尔表示，”我们的环境法规没有那么严格，”而且可以通过洒水有效抑制粉尘。
One thing is clear, Mr. Moore said: Implosion by use of precisely placed explosives would not be used, nor would a wrecking ball. Both methods are largely forbidden in New York because of safety and environmental concerns, although this month officials allowed the first implosion in more than a decade, of an old Coast Guard apartment building on largely isolated Governors Island.
穆尔表示，有一点非常清楚：不会通过使用精确放置的炸药进行内部爆破，也不会使用落锤。出于安全及环保考虑，纽约基本上禁用这两种方法，尽管官员们在本月批准了10多年来首个内部爆破计划，目标是大致孤立的总督岛上一座老旧的海岸警卫队(Coast Guard)公寓楼。
Implosion is also outlawed in Tokyo, which is even more densely packed than New York. But the main impetus there for the new demolition techniques was a recycling law that took effect in 2002, said Tsuyoshi Seike, an associate professor at the Institute of Environmental Studies at the University of Tokyo.
东京也不允许进行内部爆破，那里比纽约还要拥挤。但东京大学(University of Tokyo)环境研究所(Institute of Environmental Studies)副教授清家刚(Tsuyoshi Seike)表示，推动新拆除方法发展的主要因素是2002年生效的一部回收法律。
In addition to valuable metals like steel, aluminum and copper, the law required that wood and concrete waste be recycled, even if the demolition contractors had to pay to do so. “People started to take recycling seriously,” Dr. Seike said. “And things have changed quite drastically with demolition.”
除了钢、铝、铜等价值较高的金属外，该法还要求回收废弃的木材和混凝土，即便拆除项目承包商需要为此付费。“人们开始重视回收，”清家刚说，“拆除领域的情况已发生巨大改变。”
For greater efficiency, recyclable materials need to be separated at the site, he said. By creating controlled work environments, both Japanese methods allow for on-site separation.
他表示，为了提高效率，需要就地分离可回收利用的材料。通过创造可控的作业环境，日本的这两种拆除方法都能实现材料就地分离。
Mr. Mizutani said his company’s method had an added advantage in that hazardous materials like asbestos did not have to be removed from the site separately, before the structural demolition began. Rather, as the materials are stripped from each floor they can be left there until that floor reaches the ground and they can be safely carted away.
水谷良表示，鹿岛建设的方法还有一项优势，那就是在对建筑结构进行拆除前，不必单独将石棉等有害物质从现场移除。相反，随着这些材料被逐层剥离，它们可留在原来的楼层上，直至该楼层降至地面后被安全运走。