BORDEAUX, France — WHEN the Bordeaux International Wine Institute, which offers business management training in the oenological arts, opened its doors in 2004, it had 20 students, mostly from domestic French wineries. Today it has 105.
法国波尔多——2004年，当提供酿酒业工商管理培训的波尔多国际葡萄酒学院(Bordeaux International Wine Institute)开张时，共招收了20名学生，多数来自法国本土的葡萄酒庄。如今，它有105名学生。
What is most striking about this year’s class isn’t its size, but its composition. Though students come from places as diverse as India and Turkey, one group of foreigners stands out: Chinese students make up almost 30 percent, the largest group by nationality behind the French. Their American classmates comprise less than 4 percent.
今年这一级学生最吸引人的地方还不是它的规模，而是它的构成。虽说生源之广覆盖到了印度和土耳其，但其中最醒目的一群外国人要属占总数近30%的中国学生。按照国别计算，这是仅次于法国学生人数的群体。同级的美国学生占比还不到4%。
Meanwhile, the Burgundy Business School in Dijon has also recorded a rise in Chinese students in its wine management programs. Between 2009 and 2012, Chinese students made up barely 10 percent of the graduate ranks; now, 33 of this year’s 100 students hail from China.
与此同时，第戎的勃艮第高等商业学校(Burgundy Business School)葡萄酒管理课程的中国学生人数也实现了增长。从2009年到2012年，中国学生占研究生总人数还不到10%；而到了今年，100名学生中有33人来自中国。
Wine has always been an essential part of the French tradition, both culturally and economically, but the world’s growing middle class has made it a global one: worldwide wine consumption is expected to grow almost 9 percent, to $182 billion, by 2016, with a large chunk of the demand coming from China.
不论是从文化上还是从经济上来说，葡萄酒都是法国传统的一个核心组成部分。但是，全球不断壮大的中产阶级已使之成为了一种世界传统：到2016年，全球的葡萄酒消费量预计将增长近9%，达到1820亿美元（约合1.1万亿元人民币），其中大量的需求将来自中国。
Some in France, however, view this development with unease, which has at times exploded into violent xenophobia. In August a group of Frenchmen assaulted a group of Chinese oenology students at a wine school in nearby Sauternes, sending several to the hospital.
然而，部分法国人却对这样的趋势颇感不安，这种情绪时而还会演变成激烈的排外行动。去年8月，一些法国人攻击了在附近索泰尔讷的一所葡萄酒学校学习酿酒的一群中国学生，导致数人进了医院。
Along with a general fear of change within the centuries-old wine world, there is concern that China, with its huge population and geography, could someday eclipse France’s place in wine production. Some even fear that these students could mark the first stage of a Chinese takeover of the French wine industry, buying up vineyards in the same way the country bought up huge tracts of Africa.
人们除了笼统地害怕这个延续了许多世纪的葡萄酒世界会从内部发生改变以外， 还担心，有着众多人口和广阔土地的中国有一天会削弱法国在葡萄酒生产领域的地位。一些人甚至害怕，这些学生的出现就标志着中国人接管法国葡萄酒业的第一阶段，就像这个国家在非洲买下大片土地一样，收购走所有的葡萄园。
Such concerns are misplaced. Not only does the explosion in China’s interest in wine bode well for the French economy, but the connections built between French vintners and their Chinese students will pay enormous cultural dividends for both countries.
这种担心毫无来由。不仅中国对葡萄酒兴趣的爆炸式增长对法国经济来说是一个好消息，而且法国葡萄酒商和他们中国学生所建立的这种关系也会为两国都带来巨大的文化红利。
Most people are surprised to learn that China already has a strong winemaking tradition. Indeed, many of the students at the French schools are working at the graduate level, having already completed undergraduate courses in oenology back home.
听说中国已经拥有实力雄厚的葡萄酒酿造传统，许多人都十分惊讶。事实上，法国学校里的不少中国学生都在学习研究生水平的课程，他们在国内已经完成了酿酒专业的本科课程。
One student in Bordeaux, Zhang Xuan, began his wine studies in one of the new oenology programs at China’s Northwest University of Agriculture and Forestry, in the central Chinese city of Yangling, and later interned with a Chinese winery before coming to France.
波尔多的中国学生张铉（音译）是在本国的中部城市杨凌开始了他的葡萄酒学习。他在那里上了西北农林科技大学新开的一门葡萄酒酿造专业，来法国之前还曾在中国的一家葡萄酒厂实习。
Others grew up working on their family’s vineyards, or selling wine at a family-owned shop.
其他人则有些从小在家里的葡萄园帮忙，或者在家族所有的店铺卖葡萄酒。
Whatever their background, most of them plan to return to China after their studies — and to take their new, French-inflected skills with them. Another Bordeaux student, Wu Zhaolong, discovered his passion for wine while working in the hotel and restaurant industry in Shanghai. He plans to go into restaurant management, integrating French food and wine styles with traditional Shanghainese dining.
不论他们的背景怎样，多数都计划在学成后回到中国，并将他们受过法国熏陶的新技艺带回国。波尔多的另一名学生吴兆龙（音译）在上海从事酒店和餐饮业时发现了自己对葡萄酒的热情。他计划从事餐饮管理，将法国的美食和葡萄酒风格与传统的上海餐饮相结合。
As they move on, they will take along a respect for French culture, which they will later share with their co-workers and customers, in much the same way that the French winemaking know-how imported to California in the 1950s and ’60s helped initiate a new wave of interest in French cuisine and culture nationwide.
随着他们走入人生的下一阶段，他们会带着对法国文化的尊重，日后也会将这种尊重与他们的同僚和客户分享。从很大程度上，这就好像20世纪五六十年代引入加州的法国葡萄酿酒专业知识，帮助在全美开启了新一轮对法国美食和文化的兴趣。
At the same time, these students will build strong binational business relationships: Zhu Qiyao, who ran a wine sales company in Hangzhou before coming to Bordeaux, wants to perfect her wine-negotiation skills and expand her business network before returning to China.
与此同时，这些学生还会为两国打造强韧的商业纽带：朱琦瑶（音译）来波尔多之前在杭州经营一家葡萄酒销售公司，她希望在回到中国之前，完善自身在葡萄酒方面的谈判技巧，并且扩大她在商业上的人脉。
But the real benefit for France, and one that these students will help strengthen, is economic. French wine already accounts for 48 percent of Chinese wine imports, and Bordeaux’s reds are a particular favorite of the Chinese elite.
但是，法国真正能得到的好处，也就是这些学生能够帮助加强的，是经济上的利益。法国葡萄酒本来就占了中国葡萄酒进口总量的48%，波尔多红酒尤其受到中国精英阶层的喜爱。
And the Chinese market can only grow. A report presented last summer at Bordeaux’s enormous VinExpo predicted that Chinese wine consumption would grow 40 percent from 2012 to 2016. And Chinese drinkers don’t want plonk: While China ranks only 20th in per capita wine consumption, it ranks fourth in terms of the value of the wine it consumes.
中国的市场只会继续增长。去年夏天，在波尔多举行的大型国际葡萄酒及烈酒展览会(Vinexpo)上推出了一份报告，预测中国的葡萄酒消费在2012年到2016年间将会增长40%。而且中国饮酒者不喝劣质酒：虽然中国在人均葡萄酒消费量上仅居世界第20，它在所消费葡萄酒的价值上却占世界第四位。
A good bit of this demand will be met domestically, of course: China is already the fifth-largest wine-producing nation, and France’s Center for Scientific Research recently predicted that it would double its production in five years.
当然，这种需求中相当的一部分将在国内得到满足：中国已经是世界第五大葡萄酒生产国，而法国科技研究中心(Center for Scientific Research)最近预测，它的产量将在五年内翻倍。
Some in France fear that China’s growing love of wine will drive wealthy Chinese investors to gobble up French vineyards. Chinese have been snatching up Bordeaux chateaus at roughly one a month. Last year a Chinese industrialist raised alarms in Bordeaux after buying a top-class, or grand cru, wine producer, Château Bellefont-Belcier.
法国有一些人担心，中国对葡萄酒日益加深的热爱会驱动富裕的中国投资者大举吞并法国的葡萄园。中国人已经在以差不多一个月一家的速度拿下波尔多的酒庄了。去年，一名中国的实业家买下了一家顶级酒庄，即特级葡萄酒生产商白露枫-百乐协酒庄(Château  Bellefont-Belcier)，在波尔多地区引起一阵恐慌。
But such concerns are overblown. With upward of 8,000 properties, there are still plenty of French-owned vineyards. And there has been plenty of investment in the other direction.
但是，这种顾虑有所夸大的。波尔多地区有8000多座酒庄，还剩下许多是法国人所有的。而且，中国人在其他领域也进行了大量投资。
In the last few years, many renowned French wine companies have rushed to open joint-venture vineyards and wineries in China. In July, Moët Hennessy’s Chandon subsidiary opened its Ningxia Winery in central China, which will be dedicated to producing sparkling wine. Not far away, Pernod Ricard, a renowned wine producer, recently took over another large winery, Helan Mountain.
在过去数年间，许多著名的法国酒业公司纷纷在中国开办了合资葡萄园和葡萄酒厂。去年7月，酩悦轩尼诗(Moët Hennessy)夏桐分公司在中国中部开办了宁夏酒庄，计划专门生产气泡酒。距它不远处，著名的葡萄酒生产商保乐力加(Pernod Ricard)近来买下了另一家大型葡萄酒厂贺兰山。
Globalization is reshaping every industry, even one as hidebound as French wine. But its partisans should be more optimistic. Far from destroying French wine traditions, forces of globalization, even one as large and powerful as China, can only help them.
全球化正在改变每一个行业，即使传统守旧如法国葡萄酒。但法国葡萄酒的坚定支持者应该抱有更乐观的态度。全球化的力量不仅不会摧毁法国的葡萄酒传统，只会帮助它们的发扬光大，即使这股力量来自庞大而实力雄厚的中国。
And in any case, at least some in Bordeaux are keeping their prejudices closer to home. As one leading vintner said wryly, “I don’t care who buys these chateaus, as long as they are not from Paris.”
不论发生什么，波尔多至少有一些人的偏见却是对内不对外的。正如一位著名的葡萄酒商曾语带讽刺地说到的那样，“我不在乎谁买下这些酒庄，只要他们不是来自巴黎就行。”