With Russia growling over the downfall of its ally running Ukraine and still protecting its murderous ally running Syria, there is much talk that we’re returning to the Cold War — and that the Obama team is not up to defending our interests or friends. I beg to differ. I don’t think the Cold War is back; today’s geopolitics are actually so much more interesting than that. And I also don’t think President Obama’s caution is entirely misplaced.
眼下俄罗斯正因为掌管乌克兰的盟友倒台而感到恼怒，另外还在继续保护着掌管叙利亚的那个凶残的盟友，因此许多人在说，我们回到了冷战时代——还说奥巴马阵营没有能力保护我们的利益或朋友。我对此不以为然。我不认为冷战又开始了；今天的地缘政治其实要比那时候有趣很多。此外我也不认为奥巴马总统的谨慎是完全错误的。
The Cold War was a unique event that pitted two global ideologies, two global superpowers, each with globe-spanning nuclear arsenals and broad alliances behind them. Indeed, the world was divided into a chessboard of red and black, and who controlled each square mattered to each side’s sense of security, well-being and power. It was also a zero-sum game, in which every gain for the Soviet Union and its allies was a loss for the West and NATO, and vice versa.
冷战是一个独特的事件，是两个全球性意识形态、两个全球超级大国的角力，双方都拥有覆盖全球的核武力量，身后都有大量的盟友。事实上，世界在当时成了一个红黑两色的棋盘，每一格由谁来控制，都会影响到双方对安全、福祉和权力的感受。此外，它还是一场零和博弈，苏联及其盟友的任何一点“得”，对西方和北约都是一种“失”，反之亦然。
That game is over. We won. What we have today is the combination of an older game and a newer game. The biggest geopolitical divide in the world today “is between those countries who want their states to be powerful and those countries who want their people to be prosperous,” argues Michael Mandelbaum, professor of foreign policy at Johns Hopkins.
那场博弈已经结束。我们赢了。今天我们面对的是一场更老和更新博弈的组合。约翰·霍普金斯大学外交政策教授迈克尔·曼德尔鲍姆(Michael Mandelbaum)说，当下地缘政治的最大分歧出现在“那些希望强国的国家和希望富民的国家”之间。
The first category would be countries like Russia, Iran and North Korea, whose leaders are focused on building their authority, dignity and influence through powerful states. And because the first two have oil and the last has nukes that it can trade for food, their leaders can defy the global system and survive, if not thrive — all while playing an old, traditional game of power politics to dominate their respective regions.
前者包括俄罗斯、伊朗和朝鲜，它们的领导人一心要通过强国来建立权威、尊严和影响。前面两个有石油，最后一个有可以换食品的核武，因此它们的领导人可以在藐视全球体系的同时生存下来，甚至还能崛起。与此同时，它们还在玩着一种老旧的、传统的权力政治游戏，以把持各自的地盘。
The second category, countries focused on building their dignity and influence through prosperous people, includes all the countries in Nafta, the European Union, and the Mercosur trade bloc in Latin America and Asean in Asia. These countries understand that the biggest trend in the world today is not a new Cold War but the merger of globalization and the information technology revolution. They are focused on putting in place the right schools, infrastructure, bandwidth, trade regimes, investment openings and economic management so more of their people can thrive in a world in which every middle-class job will require more skill and the ability to constantly innovate will determine their standard of living. (The true source of sustainable power.)
后者专注于通过人民的富足来建立国家的尊严和影响，北美自由贸易协议(Nafta)、欧盟、拉美的南方共同市场(Mercosur)和亚洲的东南亚国家联盟(Asean)中的所有国家都属此类。这些国家清楚，当今世界最大的一股潮流不是新冷战，而是全球化和信息技术革命的结合。它们把精力放在建设理想的学校、基础设施、带宽、贸易体系、投资机遇和经济管理上，让它们的人民可以过得更好，因为在如今这个世界里，任何一份中产阶级工作都比以往需要更多的技能，而不断创新的能力将决定他们的生活水平。（这是可持续权力的真正来源。）
But there is also now a third and growing category of countries, which can’t project power or build prosperity. They constitute the world of “disorder.” They are actually power and prosperity sinks because they are consumed in internal fights over primal questions like: Who are we? What are our boundaries? Who owns which olive tree? These countries include Syria, Libya, Iraq, Sudan, Somalia, Congo and other hot spots. While those nations focused on state power do play in some of these countries — Russia and Iran both play in Syria — the states that are more focused on building prosperity are trying to avoid getting too involved in the world of disorder. Though ready to help mitigate humanitarian tragedies there, they know that when you “win” one of these countries in today’s geopolitical game, all you win is a bill.
不过还有个日渐壮大的第三类，一些既无法施展强权也不能营造繁荣的国家。它们组成了一个“无序”世界。它们其实成了强权和繁荣的下水道，因为它们把精力都消耗在了一些有关原始问题的内斗上：我们是什么人？我们的边界在哪里？橄榄树是谁的？这些国家包括叙利亚、利比亚、伊拉克、苏丹、索马里、刚果以及其他一些纷扰之地。那些追求强权的国家的确会参与到这些国家的是非里——俄罗斯和伊朗都在叙利亚加入博弈当中——而更关心繁荣建设的国家则竭力避免和无序世界扯上关系。它们乐于去缓解那里的人道主义悲剧，但它们知道在如今的地缘政治博弈中，你去“争取”这样一个国家，得到的只是一张账单。
Ukraine actually straddles all three of these trends. The revolution there happened because the government was induced by Russia, which wants to keep Ukraine in its sphere of influence, into pulling out of a trade agreement with the European Union — an agreement favored by the many Ukrainians focused on building a prosperous people. This split has also triggered talk of separatism by the more Russian-speaking and Russian-oriented eastern part of Ukraine.
事实上，乌克兰在这三股潮流里都沾点边。那里的革命是因为政府在俄罗斯的劝阻下放弃了和欧盟的一项贸易协议，俄罗斯希望把乌克兰控制在自己的影响范围内，而许多着眼于富民的乌克兰人则支持和欧盟的协议。这种分歧还在俄语人士较多、更倾向俄罗斯的乌克兰东部引发了分离主义的言论。
So what do we do? The world is learning that the bar for U.S. intervention abroad is being set much higher. This is due to a confluence of the end of the Soviet Union’s existential threat, the experience of investing too many lives and $2 trillion in Iraq and Afghanistan to little lasting impact, America’s rising energy independence, our intelligence successes in preventing another 9/11 and the realization that to fix what ails the most troubled countries in the world of disorder is often beyond our skill set, resources or patience.
那么我们该怎么办？世界正在认识到，美国已经大幅提高了海外干预的标准。这是多个因素共同作用的结果，包括苏联构成的生死威胁已经不复存在，在伊拉克和阿富汗的经历——牺牲了太多的生命和两万亿美元却没有构成多少持久的影响，美国能源独立性的提高，我们在阻止9·11再度发生的情报工作上获得成功，还有我们现在意识到，以我们的能力、资源或耐心，往往不足以解救无序世界中最动荡的那些国家。
In the Cold War, policy-making was straightforward. We had “containment.” It told us what to do and at almost any price. Today, Obama’s critics say he must do “something” about Syria. I get it. Chaos there can come around to bite us. If there is a policy that would fix Syria, or even just stop the killing there, in a way that was self-sustaining, at a cost we could tolerate and not detract from all the things we need to do at home to secure our own future, I’m for it.
冷战中的策略制定是直截了当的。我们有“遏制”政策。它告诉我们该怎么做，几乎不计代价地去做。批评奥巴马的人现在在说，在叙利亚的事上他必须“做点什么”。我能理解，那里的混乱有一天可能会影响到我们。如果有一种策略，能够用可以自我持续的方式解决叙利亚问题，哪怕只是停止那里的杀戮，付出的代价又是我们能够承受的，不会影响到我们为自己的长治久安而在国内做的事情，那我赞成。
But we should have learned some lessons from our recent experience in the Middle East: First, how little we understand about the social and political complexities of the countries there; second, that we can — at considerable cost — stop bad things from happening in these countries but cannot, by ourselves, make good things happen; and third, that when we try to make good things happen we run the risk of assuming the responsibility for solving their problems, a responsibility that truly belongs to them.
但我们应该从近年在中东的经历中吸取教训：首先，我们对这些国家的社会和政治复杂性知之甚少；其次，我们可以在付出可观代价之后，制止这些国家正在发生的坏事，但无法凭一己之力促成好事；再次，当我们试图去促成好事时，我们就有可能要承担起帮他们解决问题的责任，然而那真的应该是他们自己去承担的事。