WITH metronomic regularity, gauzy accounts extol the return of manufacturing jobs to the United States.
每隔一段时间就会出现一些漏洞百出的文章，为制造业岗位重返美国唱赞歌。
One day, it’s Master Lock bringing combination lock fabrication back to Milwaukee from China. Another, it’s Element Electronics commencing assembly of television sets — a function long gone from the United States — in a factory near Detroit.
某一天，是玛斯特锁业公司(Master Lock)把密码锁制造业务从中国搬回了密尔沃基。另一天，又是基础电子公司(Element Electronics)开始在底特律附近的一家工厂组装电视机，重操美国早已抛弃的旧业。
Breathless headlines in recent months about a “new industrial revolution” and “the promise of a ‘Made in America’ era” suggest it’s a renaissance. This week, when President Obama gives his State of the Union address, he will most likely yet again stress his plans to strengthen our manufacturing base.
最近几个月来，关于“新工业革命”和“‘美国制造’时代的美好前景”的头条新闻令人屏息，暗示着一场复兴拉开了帷幕。本周，奥巴马总统发表国情咨文演讲的时候，也很有可能再次强调巩固美国制造业基地的计划。
But we need to get real about the so-called renaissance, which has in reality been a trickle of jobs, often dependent on huge public subsidies. Most important, in order to compete with China and other low-wage countries, these new jobs offer less in health care, pension and benefits than industrial workers historically received.
然而，我们需要正视所谓的复兴，实际上，它提供的就业岗位有限，而且往往依赖于巨额的公共补贴。最重要的是，为了与中国等低工资国家竞争，这些新的就业岗位提供的医疗和养老等方面的福利比以往的产业工人享受的要少。
In an article in The Atlantic in 2012 about General Electric’s decision to open its first new assembly line in 55 years in Louisville, Ky., it was not until deep in the story that readers learned that the jobs were starting at just over $13.50 an hour. That’s less than $30,000 a year, hardly the middle-class life usually ascribed to manufacturing employment.
2012年，《大西洋》月刊(The Atlantic)登出一篇文章，讲述通用电气(General Electric)决定在肯塔基州路易斯维尔开建该公司55年来的第一条本土新装配线。文章读至过半，读者才发现，这些岗位的起薪不过每小时13.50美元（约合82元人民币）出头。也就是说，年薪不足3万美元。制造业员工的中产阶级生活可不该是这样的。
This disturbing trend is particularly pronounced in the automobile industry. When Volkswagen opened a plant in Chattanooga, Tenn., in 2011, the company was hailed for bringing around 2,000 fresh auto jobs to America. Little attention was paid to the fact that the beginning wage for assembly line workers was $14.50 per hour, about half of what traditional, unionized workers employed by General Motors or Ford received.
在汽车业，这种令人不安的趋势尤为明显。2011年，大众公司(Volkswagen)在田纳西州查塔努加开设了一家工厂。人们称赞该公司给美国带来了大约2000个新的汽车业岗位，但很少有人注意到，流水线工人的起薪为每小时14.5美元，大约是通用汽车(General Motors)和福特(Ford)以前的那些工会工人薪资的一半。
With benefits added in, those workers cost Volkswagen $27 per hour. Consider, though, that in Germany, the average autoworker earns $67 per hour. In effect, even factoring in future pay increases for the Chattanooga employees, Volkswagen has moved production from a high-wage country (Germany) to a low-wage country (the United States).
加上福利，大众公司雇佣这些工人的成本是每小时27美元。想想吧，在德国，一般的汽车工人每小时赚67美元。实际上，即使是考虑到查塔努加那些员工的未来加薪，大众汽车仍是把生产业务从一个高工资国家（德国）转移到了低工资国家（美国）。
All told, wages for blue-collar automotive industry workers have dropped by 10 percent, after adjusting for inflation, since the recession ended in June 2009. By comparison, wages across manufacturing dropped by 2.4 percent during the same period, while earnings for Americans in equivalent private-sector jobs fell by “only” 0.5 percent. (To be fair, including benefits, compensation for manufacturing workers remains above that of service employees.)
总而言之，从2009年6月摆脱经济衰退以来，汽车业蓝领工人的工资经通胀调整后下降了10%。相比之下，同期整个制造业的工资水平下降了2.4%，而在类似的私营部门就业的美国人收入“仅仅”减少了0.5%。（公平地说，加上福利，制造业工人的收入仍高于服务业员工。）
These dispiriting wage trends are a central reason for the slow economic recovery; without sustained income growth, consumers can’t spend.
这些令人沮丧的工资趋势，是经济复苏缓慢的一个核心原因；没有持续的收入增长，消费者就不会舍得花钱。
Low wages are not the only price that America pays for its manufacturing “renaissance.” Hefty subsidies from federal, state and local government agencies often are required. Tennessee provided an estimated $577 million for Volkswagen — $288,500 per position! To get 1,000 Airbus jobs, Alabama assembled a benefits package of $158 million.
低工资并不是美国为制造业“复兴”付出的唯一代价。联邦、州和地方政府机构往往还需要提供巨额补贴。田纳西州给大众公司的补贴大约为5.77亿美元，相当于每个岗位28.85万美元！为了拿到空中客车(Airbus)的1000个工作岗位，阿拉巴马州提供了价值1.58亿美元的优惠措施。
Now Boeing has just used the threat of moving to a nonunion, low-wage state to win both a record subsidy package — $8.7 billion from Washington State — and labor concessions.
眼下，波音公司(Boeing)仅仅是威胁要搬迁到一个没有工会、工资水平较低的州，就同时赢得了创纪录的补贴方案——来自华盛顿州政府的87亿美元——以及劳工方面的让步。
Over objections from their local leadership, union workers approved a new contract that would freeze pensions in favor of less generous 401(k) plans, reduce health care benefits and provide for raises totaling just 4 percent over the eight-year term. (Boeing’s stock price rose by over 80 percent last year.)
尽管遭到本地工会领袖的反对，工人们还是同意了一项新合同。它将冻结原有的养老金计划，转而采用比较吝啬的401(K)计划，还会减少医疗福利，而且在未来的八年时间里提供总计仅为4%的加薪。（波音公司的股价去年涨幅逾80%。）
FOR all the hoopla, the United States has gained just 568,000 manufacturing positions since January 2010 — a small fraction of the nearly six million lost between 2000 and 2009. That’s a slower rate of recovery than for nonmanufacturing employment. “We find very little real evidence of a renaissance in U.S. manufacturing activity,” a recent Morgan Stanley report stated, echoing similar findings from Goldman Sachs.
喧嚣背后，美国的制造业岗位自2010年1月以来只增加了56.8万个。相对于2000年至2009年间失去了近600万个工作岗位来说，只是个小数目。与非制造业的就业状况相比，制造业复苏的速度也较为缓慢。“我们发现，美国制造业复苏的切实证据几乎不存在，”摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)最近在一份报告中指出。高盛(Goldman Sachs)也提出了类似的看法。
If anything, the challenges to American manufacturing have grown, as less developed countries have become more adept. In Mexico, where each autoworker earned $7.80 per hour in 2012, auto industry officials say productivity is as high as in the United States, where total compensation costs were $45.34 per hour. No surprise then that in 2013, Mexican automobile production was 50 percent higher than seven years earlier, while output in the United States was at the same 2006 levels.
如果有什么不同的话，那就是，随着发展中国家的生产率提高，美国制造业面临的挑战变得更加严峻了。在墨西哥，汽车工人2012年的时薪为7.80美元，而该国汽车业官员表示，其生产率跟美国一样高。但美国的薪酬总成本为每小时45.34美元。因此，墨西哥2013年的汽车产量比七年前高出50%，而美国的产量等同于2006年时的水平，也就不足为奇了。
For the United States to remain competitive against countries like Mexico, productivity must continue to rise. But unlike past gains in productivity, these improvements in efficiency are not being passed along to workers.
美国要想保持对墨西哥等国的竞争力，就必须持续提高生产率。然而，不同于以往的是，工人现在没有从生产率的提高中获益。
And these necessary productivity gains often take the place of hiring more workers; the United States remains the world leader in agriculture while employing less than 2 percent of Americans.
而且，这些很有必要的生产率改善，往往代替了雇佣更多的工人；美国一直是全球领先的农业大国，但从业者还不到美国总人口的2%。
Advanced manufacturing — a sector that many advocate as a path for the United States to remain relevant at making things — also involves a high degree of efficiency, meaning not as many hires and particularly, not as many of those old-fashioned, middle-class, assemble-a-thousand-pieces jobs.
许多人倡议，尖端制造业是美国在制造业保持影响力的一条途径。然而，尖端制造业也需要高生产率，这就意味着，它不会提供太多的就业岗位，尤其是不会提供太多那种老式的、能维持中产阶级生活的、要组装上千件产品的工作。
Moreover, the lead that the United States has in some advanced manufacturing areas — notably aerospace — is being compromised by growing capabilities of workers elsewhere. Bombardier is now assembling Learjets in Mexico, and later this year Cessna will start delivering Citation XLS+ business jets that were put together in China.
不仅如此，美国在一些尖端的制造业领域——尤其是航空业的主导地位正在受到其他地区的工人能力日渐强大的侵蚀。庞巴迪公司(Bombardier)目前正在墨西哥组装里尔喷气机(Learjet)。今年末，塞斯纳公司(Cessna)将开始交付在中国组装的奖状系列XLS+ (CitationXLS+)商务喷气机。
Similarly, while America’s energy boom will provide an incentive for manufacturers to locate here, don’t count on cheap natural gas to fuel an employment boom. According to a 2009 study, only one-tenth of American manufacturing involved significant energy costs.
与此类似的是，尽管美国能源业的繁荣将给制造业落户本土提供激励，但不能指望廉价的天然气能带动就业热潮。根据2009年的一项研究，只有十分之一的美国制造业业务涉及大量的能源成本。
While we shouldn’t expect manufacturing to save our economy, we needn’t despair. Among other things, we need to get over the notion that service jobs are invariably inferior. The United States remains a world leader in service industries like education and medicine. Not only do these fields generate well-paying jobs, but they also help with our balance of trade: when foreigners come to America to be educated or treated, those services are tallied as exports.
虽然我们不应指望着靠制造业来挽救美国经济，可是我们也无需绝望。抛开其他不谈，我们需要克服那种认为服务业岗位一律低人一等的观念。在教育和医疗等服务行业，美国保持着全球领先的地位。这些领域不仅能催生薪资优厚的岗位，而且还有助于维持贸易平衡。当外国人到美国来接受教育或治疗时，这些服务就会被算成出口。
Manufacturing has been an emotional American touchstone since George Washington wore a wool suit that had been woven in Hartford, Conn., to his first inauguration to illustrate the importance of making stuff at home. We do need to maintain an industrial presence, but perhaps not for the obvious reasons.
乔治·华盛顿(George Washington)穿了一件在康涅狄格州哈特福德纺织的羊毛套装，去参加他的首届就职典礼，以此诠释本土生产的重要性。自那以后，制造业一直是一块牵动人心的美国试金石。我们确实需要维持工业上的强势，不过，这么做也许不是为了那些显而易见的原因。
For one thing, companies often locate research and development facilities — stuffed with high-paying jobs — near their manufacturing facilities. In addition to jobs, R&D yields high-value intellectual property that spills over into still more innovation and employment. And not surprisingly, every manufacturing position requires an additional 4.6 service and supplier positions to support it.
首先，企业往往会在制造基地附近设立研发机构，而这些机构里满是高收入的岗位。除了工作岗位，研发还能获得高价值的知识产权成果，并演化成更多的创新成果和就业岗位。而且毫不出奇的是，每个制造业岗位都需要额外的4.6个服务业和供应商岗位的支持。
The challenge for the United States is particularly acute because manufacturing now accounts for just 12 percent of our economy, down from a peak of 28 percent in 1953 and on a par with France and Britain as the least industrialized of major economies.
美国面临的挑战之所以尤其尖锐，是因为，1953年，制造业在美国国民经济中的比重为28%，达到了顶峰，目前则降到了仅有12%，和法英两国的比重相当，同属于主要经济体中工业比重最低的国家。
While keeping that share from dipping further should be a priority, we should be careful to avoid raising false hopes (like Mr. Obama’s unrealistic second-term goal of creating a million manufacturing jobs) and pursuing ill-conceived policies (such as special subsidies for manufacturing).
尽管避免目前的比重出现进一步的下跌应属当务之急，不过，我们同时应当谨慎地避免激起不切实际的希望（比如奥巴马为第二任期提出了不切实际的目标，说要创造100万个制造业岗位），避免寻求考虑不周的政策（比如给制造业提供特别补贴）。
The president’s proposals — unveiled over the last several years — include the two most important elements of a sensible manufacturing strategy: more training focused on the skills needed by employers and increased spending on research and development.
奥巴马过去几年公布的计划中包含了英明的制造业战略的两个最重要的元素：开展更多针对雇主所需技能的培训，以及加大研发投入。
The United States work force is simultaneously overqualified (15 percent of taxi drivers are college graduates) and underqualified (we rank in the bottom half of many comparisons of developed countries).
美国的劳动力同时具有资历过高（15%的出租车司机是大学毕业生）和资历不足（在与许多发达国家的对比中，我们的排名位于后50%）的特点。
When Volkswagen arrived in Chattanooga, it found that not enough eager applicants had the requisite technical skills, so it established a German-style training system (including three-year apprenticeships) at the factory.
大众汽车在抵达查塔努加后发现，拥有所需技能的求职者人数不够，因此就在工厂建立了德国式的培训系统（包括三年的学徒期）。
As for research and development, the fiscal tightening by the federal government has prevented more investment in this critical area, the exact opposite of what is required. At the same time, while subsidies to draw jobs have become a necessary evil, we should be rigorous about analyzing the value of these costs. And we must stop short of excessive meddling in the private sector, and particularly the notion of picking winners. (Think Solyndra or Fisker.)
至于研发方面，联邦政府的财政紧缩已经对这个关键领域获得更多投资造成了阻碍，而这种状况恰恰是最不合时宜的。与此同时，尽管制造就业的补贴已经成了不得不忍受的痛苦，我们必须谨慎分析这些代价的价值。我们必须悬崖勒马，避免过度插手私营领域，尤其是选择受益者的想法。（想想索林卓[Solyndra]和菲斯克[Fisker]这两家企业的教训。）
Mr. Obama skirted this problem by proposing to create 45 “manufacturing innovation institutes,” which bring together companies, universities and government experts in a kind of laboratory setting to help develop advanced manufacturing strategies.
通过提出建立45家“制造业创新研究所”，奥巴马避开了这个问题。这些研究所汇集了企业、大学以及政府的专家，在一种类似于实验室的环境下，帮助发展先进的制造业战略。
While these institutes are not going to turn the tide, they might help at the margin. But like the president’s other proposals, they have been largely ignored by Congress. (The White House managed to establish a pilot center in Youngstown, Ohio, and another is coming in Charlotte, N.C.)
尽管这些研究所也无力扭转乾坤，但它们有助于盈利。但是，就像总统的其他提案一样，它们基本上一直被国会无视。（白宫在俄亥俄州的扬斯敦建立了一个实验中心，马上会在北卡罗莱纳州的夏洛特再建一个。）
Manufacturing would benefit from the same reforms that would help the broader economy: restructuring of our loophole-ridden corporate tax code, new policies to bring in skilled immigrants, added spending on infrastructure and, yes, more trade agreements to encourage foreign direct investment and help get closer to Mr. Obama’s seemingly unattainable goal of doubling our exports.
制造业将得益于那些能够帮助宏观经济的各项改革：调整充满漏洞的企业税法、用新政策来引进技术移民、增加基础设施投资，还有，是的，签署更多的贸易协议，以鼓励外国直接投资并实现奥巴马提出的看似不可能实现的目标：让出口翻一番。
Those who see a brighter manufacturing picture for the United States argue that wages are rising more rapidly elsewhere, not just in China and Brazil but also in Japan, Germany and France. But just like the “feel good” stories, celebrating this fact ignores the reality that the flip side of wages’ rising faster elsewhere means they are rising more slowly here.
那些认为美国制造业前景会更加光明的人说，其他地方的工资增长得更快，这不仅包括中国和巴西，日本、德国和法国也是如此。但是，就像那些“治愈系”的故事一样，如果你认为这件事值得庆祝，那你就忽视了这样一个现实，其他地方工资增长更快，也就意味着美国增长得更慢。
And that is the essence of our challenge: In a flattened world, there will always be another China.
这就是我们面临的挑战的实质：在一个变得扁平的世界里，永远会存在另一个中国。