SITTWE, Myanmar — Minura Begum has been in labor for almost 24 hours, and the baby is stuck. Worse, it’s turned around, one tiny foot already emerging into the world in a difficult breech delivery that threatens the lives of mother and child alike.
缅甸实兑——米努拉夫人(Minura Begum)已经分娩了将近24个小时，胎儿还卡在产道里。更糟的是，胎位不正，孩子的一只小脚丫已经露了出来。这次艰难的臀位分娩很可能会夺去这对母子的生命。
Twenty-three years old and delivering her first child, Minura desperately needs a doctor. But the Myanmar government has confined her, along with 150,000 others, to a quasi-concentration camp outside town here, and it blocks aid workers from entering to provide medical help. She’s on her own.
这是23岁的米努拉第一次生孩子，她急需一名医生。然而，缅甸政府已经把她和15万人一起限制在了城外一个相当于集中营的地方，并禁止援助人员进来提供医疗救助。她孤立无援。
Welcome to Myanmar, where tremendous democratic progress is being swamped by crimes against humanity toward the Rohingya, a much-resented Muslim minority in this Buddhist country. Budding democracy seems to aggravate the persecution, for ethnic cleansing of an unpopular minority appears to be a popular vote-getting strategy.
欢迎来到缅甸，在这里，民主的巨大进步正被针对罗辛亚人的反人类罪行彻底抹杀。作为穆斯林少数群体，罗辛亚人在这个佛教国家遭到了深深憎恶。萌芽中的民主似乎加剧了这种迫害，因为对这个不受欢迎的少数群体进行种族清洗，似乎是一项能捞到投票的深得民心的策略。
This is my annual “win-a-trip” journey, in which I take a university student on a reporting trip to the developing world. I’m with this year’s winner, Nicole Sganga of Notre Dame University, spotlighting an injustice that some call a genocide.
这是“与纪思道同行”项目：每年我都会带一名大学生到发展中国家进行报道。今年的获奖者是圣母大学(Notre Dame University)的妮科尔·斯甘加(Nicole Sganga)，我们正在关注一场堪称种族屠杀的苦难。
There are more than one million Rohingya in Rakhine State in the northwest of Myanmar. They are distinct from the local Buddhists both by darker skin and by their Islamic faith. For decades, Myanmar’s military rulers have tried systematically to erase the Rohingya’s existence with oppression, periodic mass expulsions and denials of their identity.
在缅甸西北部的若开邦，有超过100万罗辛亚人。他们和本地佛教徒的区别不光是更深的肤色，还有他们的伊斯兰教信仰。几十年来，缅甸的军方统治者一直通过施加压迫、定期大规模驱逐，以及拒绝给予公民身份的方式，有计划地试图消灭罗辛亚人。
“There are no people called Rohingya in Myanmar,” U Win Myaing, a spokesman for Rakhine State, told me. He said that most are simply illegal immigrants from Bangladesh.
“缅甸没有罗辛亚人，”若开邦的发言人温棉(U Win Myaing)告诉我。他说，大多数只不过是孟加拉来的非法移民。
This narrative is absurd, as well as racist. A document as far back as 1799 refers to the Rohingya population here, and an 1826 report estimates that 30 percent of the population of this region was Muslim.
这种说法不仅荒谬，也带有种族歧视。一份早至1799年的文献就提到了这里的罗辛亚人口，此外，一份1826年的报告估计，这个地区30%的人口是穆斯林。
Since clashes in 2012 claimed more than 200 lives — including children hacked with machetes — the authorities have confined Rohingya to internment camps or their own villages. They are stripped of citizenship and cannot freely go to the market, to schools, to university, to hospitals.
自从2012年的冲突导致逾200人丧生之后——包括被大砍刀劈死的儿童——当局就一直把罗辛亚人限制在拘留营或他们自己的村子里。他们被剥夺了公民身份，不能自由地前往市场、学校、大学和医院。
Tens of thousands have made desperate attempts to flee by boat, with many drowning along the way.
数万人在绝望中试图坐船逃走，许多人在途中溺亡。
This year, the Myanmar authorities have cracked down even harder, making the situation worse. First, the government expelled Doctors Without Borders, which had been providing health care for the Rohingya. Then orchestrated mobs attacked the offices of humanitarian organizations, forcing them out.
今年，缅甸当局的镇压越发严厉，令形势进一步恶化。首先，政府驱逐了无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Boarders)，而该机构此前一直在为罗辛亚人提供医疗服务。后来，有组织的暴民袭击了多家人道援助机构的办公室，赶走了工作人员。
Some kinds of aid are resuming, but not health care. That’s a sterile way of putting it. I wish readers could see the terrified eyes of Shamshida Begum, 22, a mom whose 1-year-old daughter, Noor, burned with fever.
一些援助正在恢复，但不包括医疗服务。语言的表述是苍白的，我希望读者可以亲眼看到珊希达夫人(Shamshida Begum)恐惧的眼神。22岁的珊希达有个女儿叫努尔(Noor)，1岁大，正发着高烧。
Shamshida said that at home the thermometer had registered 107 degrees. Even after damp cloths had been placed on Noor to lower her temperature, the thermometer, when I saw it, still read 105 degrees. What kind of a government denies humanitarians from providing medical care to a toddler?
珊希达说，在家里量的体温计读数已经达到41.6摄氏度。即使用湿巾为努尔降温之后，我看到的体温计读数仍然达到40.5摄氏度。怎样一个政府才会阻拦人道工作者为婴儿提供医疗服务？
Noor survived, but some don’t. We visited the grief-stricken family of a 35-year-old man named Ba Sein, who died after his tuberculosis went untreated.
努尔活了下来，但有些人没有。我们访问的一家人正因为35岁男子巴盛(Ba Sein)的死而沉浸在悲痛中。由于无法获得医治，巴盛因肺结核病逝。
“He died because he couldn’t get medicine,” said his widow, Habiba, as friends made a bamboo coffin outside. Now she worries about her four small children who, like other children in the camp, haven’t been vaccinated. The camp is an epidemic waiting to happen.
他的遗孀哈比巴(Habiba)说，“他缺医少药，所以死了。”与此同时，巴盛的朋友们在屋外打造一口竹棺。现在，哈巴比担心她四个年幼的孩子。就像营地里的其他孩子一样，他们都没有打过疫苗。这个集中营随时可能爆发瘟疫。
Minura, the woman with a breech delivery, survived a 28-hour labor and hemorrhaging, but lost her baby. The infant girl was buried in an unmarked grave — one of a large number of achingly small graves on the outskirts of the camp.
那个经历臀位分娩的女子米努拉，在28小时的分娩和大出血后活了下来，但失去了她的孩子。这个女婴被埋在一个没有标志的坟里——营地周围有一大片令人心痛的小坟茔，她的是其中一座。
“Because I am Rohingya, I cannot get health care and I cannot be a father,” Minura’s husband, Zakir Ahmed, a mason, said bitterly after the burial.
米努拉的丈夫扎基尔·艾哈迈德(Zakir Ahmed)是一名砖瓦匠，葬礼过后，他愤怒地说，“就因为我是罗辛亚人，我就没有医疗，我就不能成为父亲。”
The United States has spoken up, but far too mildly; Europe and Asia have tried to look the other way. We should work in particular with Japan, Britain, Malaysia and the United Nations to pressure Myanmar to restore humanitarian access and medical care.
美国发出了声音，但太过温和；欧洲和亚洲都在装聋作哑。我们尤其应该与日本、英国、马来西亚和联合国合作，向缅甸施压，以恢复人道援助的渠道和医疗服务。
President Obama, who visited Myanmar and is much admired here, should flatly declare that what is happening here is unconscionable. Obama has lately noted that his foreign policy options are limited, and that military interventions often backfire. True enough, but in Myanmar he has political capital that he has not fully used.
奥巴马总统曾经访问过缅甸，在这里极受尊敬。他应该断然宣布，这里发生的一切是泯灭良知的。奥巴马最近指出，他的外交政策选择有限，军事干预通常会引发严重后果。这没错，但在缅甸，他并没有充分利用他所拥有的政治资本。