DO you remember the controversy two years ago, when the Yale law professors Amy Chua (author of “Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother”) and Jed Rubenfeld published “The Triple Package: How Three Unlikely Traits Explain the Rise and Fall of Cultural Groups in America”?
你还记得两年前耶鲁大学(Yale)法学院教授蔡美儿（Amy Chua，著有《虎妈战歌》[ Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother]）与贾德·鲁本菲尔德(Jed Rubenfeld)合作出版《成功三法宝：三种不可能的特质怎样解释美国文化群体起落》(The Triple Package: How Three Unlikely Traits Explain the Rise and Fall of Cultural Groups in America)时引发的争议吗？
We sure do. As psychologists, we found the book intriguing, because its topic — why some people succeed and others don’t — has long been a basic research question in social science, and its authors were advancing a novel argument. They contended that certain ethnic and religious minority groups (among them, Cubans, Jews and Indians) had achieved disproportionate success in America because their individual members possessed a combination of three specific traits: a belief that their group was inherently superior to others; a sense of personal insecurity; and a high degree of impulse control.
我们肯定记得。作为心理学教授，我们发现这本书很有意思，因为其主题——为什么一些人成功了，其他人却没成功——一直是社会科学领域一个基本的研究课题，而且作者提出了一个新奇的论点。他们认为，特定的种族和宗教群体（例如古巴人、犹太人和印第安人）在美国取得成功的概率之所以高于平均水平，是因为其个体成员同时具有三个特别的特质：相信自己所属的群体天生高人一等，自身缺乏安全感，可以很好地控制自己的冲动。
But we also found the book frustrating. Though it contained page after page of stories about successful people and anecdotes (or stereotypes) about different groups’ supposedly success-driving habits and practices (e.g., Chinese parents make their children study hard), it offered no rigorous quantitative evidence to support its theory. This, of course, didn’t stop people from attacking or defending the book. But it meant that the debate consisted largely of arguments based on circumstantial evidence.
但我们同时发现这本书令人失望。作者连篇累牍地列举成功人士的故事，以及与不同族群之中存在的、据推测可以带来成功的习惯和做法（例如华裔父母督促孩子努力学习）相关的轶事（或者刻板印象），但却没能拿出确切的定量论据来支撑自己的理论。当然，这并不妨碍人们攻击这本书，或是为它辩护。但这意味着书中的论断主要是以外围证据为基础而构成的。
Rather than join the fray when the topic was hot but nobody seemed to have anything definitive to say, we took the time to empirically test the triple package hypothesis directly. Our results have just been published in the journal Personality and Individual Differences. We found scant evidence for Professors Chua and Rubenfeld’s theory.
我们没有在这一话题被炒得火热，但每个人似乎又没说出什么具体东西的那会儿加入战团，而是花时间直接对成功三法宝理论进行实证检验。研究成果已经在学术期刊《个性与个体差异》(Personality and Individual Differences)上发表。我们没发现太多能够支持蔡美儿教授和鲁本菲尔德教授的理论的证据。
We conducted two online surveys of a total of 1,258 adults in the United States. Each participant completed a variety of standard questionnaires to measure his or her impulsiveness, ethnocentrism and personal insecurity. (Professors Chua and Rubenfeld describe insecurity as “a goading anxiety about oneself and one’s place in society.” Since this concept was the most complex and counterintuitive element of their theory, we measured it several different ways, each of which captured a slightly different aspect.)
我们在美国开展了两项线上调查，受访者均已成年，共计1258人。每一个受访者都要答完各种各样的标准调查问卷，这样我们就能衡量出他/她的冲动程度，以及族群优越感和不安全感的强烈程度。（蔡美儿教授和鲁本菲尔德教授把不安全感定义为“与自身以及自己在社会中的位置有关的一种具有刺激性的焦虑情绪。”这一概念是他们的理论中最复杂、最有悖直觉的元素，因此我们采取了若干种不同的方法来衡量不安全感，每一种方法都与需要捕捉的特定方面的信息相对应，各个不同的方面之间只有细微的差别。）
Next, the participants completed a test of their cognitive abilities. Then they reported their income, occupation, education and other achievements, such as receiving artistic, athletic or leadership awards, all of which we combined to give each person a single score for overall success. Finally, our participants indicated their age, sex and parents’ levels of education.
受访者下一步要完成对其认知能力的测试。然后他们要表明自己的收入、职业、受教育程度和其他成就，比如得到过艺术类、运动类或者领导力方面的奖项，我们会综合这些信息，就总体成功程度对每个人单独打分。最后，受访者要报告他们的年龄、性别以及父母的受教育程度。
We analyzed the data several ways, and three findings consistently emerged. First, the more successful participants had higher cognitive ability, more educated parents and better impulse control. People scoring in the top half on our intelligence measure whose parents had college degrees earned more awards, made more money and were more educated than those scoring below average whose parents lacked college degrees.
我们用若干种方法对上述数据进行分析，每次都能得到如下三个结论。首先，受访者越成功，其认知能力越强，父母的受教育程度越高，对冲动的控制力越好。在智力测试中排名前50%、父母拥有大学学历的人，比起在智力测试中排名靠后、父母没有取得大学学历的人，得到的奖项更多，赚到的钱更多，受教育程度也更高。
This finding is exactly what you would expect from accepted social science. Long before “The Triple Package,” researchers determined that the personality trait of conscientiousness, which encompasses the triple package’s impulse control component, was an important predictor of success — but that a person’s intelligence and socioeconomic background were equally or even more important.
这一结果其实正是既有的社会科学理论会告诉你的事情。在《成功三法宝》一书面世很久之前，研究者就已认定，严谨自律这一个性特质——其中包括三大法宝中对冲动的控制力——是成功的重要自变量之一，不过一个人的智力和社会经济背景同样重要，甚至还要更重要一些。
Our second finding was that the more successful participants did not possess greater feelings of ethnocentrism or personal insecurity. In fact, for insecurity, the opposite was true: Emotional stability was related to greater success.
我们的第二个结论是，更为成功的受访者，并不具有更强烈的族群优越感和不安全感。事实上，就不安全感而言，事情正好相反：情绪稳定的人更为成功。
Finally, we found no special “synergy” among the triple package traits. According to Professors Chua and Rubenfeld, the three traits have to work together to create success — a sense of group superiority creates drive only in people who also view themselves as not good enough, for example, and drive is useless without impulse control. But in our data, people scoring in the top half on all three traits were no more successful than everyone else.
最后我们发现，三大法宝之间并不存在特别的“协同”关系。蔡美儿教授和鲁本菲尔德教授称，三大法宝必须同时发挥作用才能让人获得成功——举例来说，族群优越感只会让那些认为自己不够好的人受到激励，但如果无法控制自身的冲动，受到了激励也是枉然。而根据我们的数据，这三项指标都排名前50%的人并不比其他人更成功。
To be clear, we have no objection to Professors Chua and Rubenfeld’s devising a novel social-psychological theory of success. During the peer-review process before publication, our paper was criticized on the grounds that a theory created by law professors could not have contributed to empirical social science, and that ideas published in a popular book did not merit evaluation in an academic journal.
需要说明一点，我们并不反对蔡美儿教授和鲁本菲尔德教授建构与成功有关的社会心理学新理论。在论文发表前的同行评议阶段，有人基于以下理由给出了批评意见：一个由法学教授建构的理论，不可能对实证社会科学做出贡献，而且他们出的书是大众读物，没有必要在学术期刊上评论那里边的观点。
We disagree. Outsiders can make creative and even revolutionary contributions to a discipline, as the psychologists Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman did for economics. And professors do not further the advancement of knowledge by remaining aloof from debates where they can apply their expertise. Researchers should engage the public, dispel popular myths and even affirm “common sense” when the evidence warrants.
我们对此并不认同。圈外人可以对一个学科做出创造性的甚至是革命性的贡献，心理学家阿莫斯·特沃斯基(Amos Tversky)和丹尼尔·卡尼曼(Daniel Kahneman)与经济学的关系就是如此。教授们如果远离自己本可以运用专业知识参与其中的那些讨论，就难以进一步促进知识的进步。研究人员应该与公众互动，消除流行的妄论，甚至应该在有足够证据的情况下对“常识”进行确认。
In this case, our studies affirmed that a person’s intelligence and socioeconomic background were the most powerful factors in explaining his or her success, and that the triple package was not — even when we carefully measured every element of it and considered all of the factors simultaneously.
在此，我们的研究确认了这样一个常识：促使一个人获得成功的最重要因素是他/她的智力和社会经济背景，而非成功三法宝——我们仔细衡量了三法宝的每一个要素，并把他们放在一起做了评估。
Professors Chua and Rubenfeld created a provocative theory, and they spun around it an intricate web of circumstantial evidence, but it did not stand up to direct empirical tests. Our conclusion regarding “The Triple Package” is expressed by the saying, “What is new is not correct, and what is correct is not new.”
蔡美儿教授和鲁本菲尔德教授建构了一个颇具争议的理论，并围绕这一理论，用外围证据编织了一个错综复杂的网络，但它没能经受住直接的实证检验。我们关于《成功三法宝》一书的结论可以用这样一句话来表达：“新鲜的不正确，正确的不新鲜。”