HAMBURG, Germany — Is it because they know us so little — or because they know us too well — that the Americans can’t stop spying on us Germans?
德国汉堡——是因为他们对我们一无所知，还是他们对我们太过了解，为什么美国人总是对我们德国人从事间谍活动？
It is a question worth pondering after last week’s revelation that American agents had recruited at least one member of Germany’s foreign intelligence service, the BND, and may have done the same with a high-ranking defense official. In response, the German government denounced the “stupidity” of the C.I.A. and expelled its top man in Berlin.
在上周曝光了美国特工雇佣了德国对外情报机构联邦情报局(BND)的至少一名成员，以及可能还有一名高级防务官员的消息后，这个问题值得思考。作为对这些消息的回应，德国政府谴责美国中央情报局(CIA)“愚蠢”，并驱逐了该机构驻柏林的最高官员。
The reports struck nerves already jangled by Edward J. Snowden’s revelations about the scope and depth of the National Security Agency’s surveillance into both private communications and Chancellor Angela Merkel’s cellphone.
在爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)曝光了美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的监控范围和程度之后，上述消息再次刺痛了人们的神经。NSA的监控对象包括了普通人的通讯信息和总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的手机。
Against this backdrop, it is hard to qualify the latest scandal as mere stupidity. The N.S.A. revelations could at least be dismissed as an unfortunate but inadvertent result of mission overreach; developing human intelligence sources within the German government is another matter. To many Germans, America’s continuing espionage against one of its supposedly closest allies smacks of arrogance and disrespect.
在此背景下，很难把这起最新的丑闻仅仅定性为愚蠢。我们或许可以把NSA的行为当做任务范围过宽导致的无心之失，并因此而释怀；但在德国政府内部发展线人就另当别论了。对于许多德国人来说，对被认为是其最亲密盟友之一的国家长期从事间谍活动，透出了美国的傲慢无礼。
My suspicion is that this all happened because the Americans know us so well — but don’t accept what they see. American and German intelligence agencies have worked together closely since the beginning of the Cold War. But because that relationship emerged out of the American postwar occupation, there has always been a certain asymmetry to it, one that has both papered over and exacerbated the profound differences between the two countries about the very idea, purpose and limits of intelligence work.
我怀疑，这一切之所以发生，是因为美国人虽然如此了解我们，却并不接受他们所看到的东西。自冷战初期以来，美国和德国的情报机构就一直在密切合作。但因为这段关系来自美国战后的占领，它在一定程度上一直存在着不对称性，这同时掩盖并加剧了两国在情报工作的思想、目标和局限方面的深刻分歧。
This has come to a head since 9/11, and the revelation that some of the plotters had operated out of Hamburg. Both countries greatly increased their intelligence operations — but in very different ways.
这一分歧在“9·11”事件后达到了白热化阶段，当时有消息称，一些袭击策划者是在汉堡向外发出指令的。两国都大幅扩张了情报机构——但方式却大为不同。
To the Americans, intelligence gathering since 9/11 has been part of a war. Germans would never think that way. To them, intelligence services should play by the rules, as in a game of Scrabble.
对于美国来说，自从“9·11”之后，情报收集一直是战争的一部分。而德国永远不会有这种想法。对于他们来说，情报服务应该按照规则进行，就像填字游戏一样。
This, too, has historical roots. Germany’s stance emerges in part from the bad experiences with intelligence services in the past, namely the Gestapo and the Stasi. On top of this comes a deeply ingrained antimilitarism, and — not to be underestimated — a growing anti-Americanism. When the Germans hear “C.I.A.,” they think of Latin American coups, rendition flights and covert killings.
这里面还有一些历史原因。德国的立场一定程度上源于以往在情报工作上的糟糕经历，即盖世太保和史塔西。除此之外，还有根深蒂固的反军国主义，以及——不应被低估的——越来越强烈的反美主义。当德国人听到CIA的名字时，他们会想起拉美的政变、引渡航班和暗杀。
All of this has practical implications, both legal and political. Legally, the German intelligence services are not allowed to share information with the Americans that might be used for drone strikes, interrogations that might involve torture and wars without a United Nations mandate.
这一切都产生了实实在在的影响，既包括法律上的，也包括政治上的。在法律上，如果相关信息可能被用于无人机袭击、涉及刑讯逼供的审问，以及联合国未批准的战争，德国情报机构就被禁止与美国分享。
Politically, it means that whenever cooperation is exposed between the C.I.A. and the BND, the public reacts furiously — for example, when it emerged during the Iraq war that the German government had given the Americans coordinates for targets around Baghdad. The media pressed the defense minister for an answer; sweat poured from his brow as he tried to explain why this did not constitute participation in the war.
在政治上，这意味着当CIA和BND的合作被曝光时，都会引起公众的强烈反应——例如，在伊拉克战争期间，有报道称，德国政府向美国提供了巴格达附近一些目标的坐标。媒体要求国防部长给出答复；在试图解释为什么这不算参与战争时，他急得满头大汗。
The C.I.A. staff in Germany was certainly watching, and they clearly concluded that the Germans might not be willing participants in their spy games. From their point of view, sharing intelligence with the Germans must be like being on a pub crawl with a member of a temperance society.
驻德国的CIA特工毫无疑问一直在观察，他们显然得出结论，德国人可能不会愿意参加自己的间谍游戏。从他们的角度看，与德国人分享情报一定就像是与戒酒社团成员逐店饮酒。
I asked Joseph T. Wippl, who was the C.I.A.’s Berlin station chief in the early 2000s, why the agency had recruited German sources. “The C.I.A. has developed strongly in the direction of a third world agency, in that its officers work in places where the U.S. has great leverage over others and where there is no rule of law,” he said. “They are not used to or have not been trained to work in countries with similar democratic, constitutional institutions.” At the same time, he went on, the Germans had never seemed interested in the level of cooperation that might obviate this sort of unilateral snooping — the sort of treaty relationship that America has with Australia, Britain, Canada and New Zealand, the so-called Five Eyes intelligence alliance.
我问了曾于本世纪初担任CIA柏林站站长的约瑟夫·T·维普(Joseph T. Wippl)，为什么CIA要雇佣德国线人。“CIA一直在向第三世界机构的方向大力发展，因为在很多特工工作的地方，美国的影响力大于其他国家，且那里没有法治，”他说，“他们不习惯在具有相似的民主和宪法机制的国家工作，也没有接受过在这类国家工作的训练。”他接着说，与此同时，德国从来没有表现出有兴趣与美国拥有那种可能能够避免单边窥视的合作水平，即美国与澳大利亚、英国、加拿大和新西兰的那种协约关系，所谓的“五眼”情报联盟。
To suggest that the Germans could be treated as a Sixth Eye is a flattering idea. Yet I doubt the Germans would accept the honor. As is the case with America’s nuclear umbrella, we’re happy to have the protection while being still happier not to have to carry the responsibility. If Germany entered into a real intelligence alliance with America, the government would have to deal with a load of dirty knowledge — and lose the benefit of plausible deniability.
暗示德国可以被看做第六只眼，这对德国是一种恭维。但我怀疑德国人会不会接受这份荣誉。就像美国的核保护伞一样，我们很高兴能受到保护，更高兴我们不用承担责任。但如果德国和美国结成了真正的情报联盟，政府将不得不处理大量的肮脏信息，并且失去合理推诿的好处。