“WHEN an American asks me this question, it’s like a wall of ice crashing down between us.”
“美国人问我这个问题时，就好像一堵冰墙在我们中间轰然倒下一样。”
The question my Moscow-born friend Galina was referring to had nothing to do with Putin, or Pussy Riot, or the culinary ethics of adding ketchup to your pirogi. And yet, it is the back across which Russian-American relations are broken.
我出生在莫斯科的朋友加林娜(Galina)所说的问题，和普京、Pussy Riot乐队或者在俄罗斯馅饼上加番茄酱这种烹饪习惯无关。然而，俄罗斯人和美国人总是因为这个关系破裂。
The question in question is, “How are you?”
这个问题是，“你好吗？”
The answer Americans give, of course is, “Fine.” But when Russians hear this they think one of two things: (1) you’ve been granted a heavenly reprieve from the wearisome grind that all but defines the human condition and as a result are experiencing a rare and sublime moment of fineness or (2) you are lying.
美国人当然会回答，“挺好。”但当俄罗斯人听到这种答案时，他们会认为，或者（1）你得到上天的眷顾，得以从众生皆不能逃脱的苦难劳作中解脱出来，因此正在享受着一个罕有而神圣的美妙时刻，或者（2）你在说谎。
Ask a Russian, “How are you?” and you will hear, for better or worse, the truth. A blunt pronouncement of dissatisfaction punctuated by, say, the details of any recent digestive troubles. I have endured many painful minutes of elevator silence after my grandmother (who lived in the Soviet Union until moving to the United States in her 60s) delivered her stock response: “Terrible,” to which she might add, “Why? Because being old is terrible.” Beat. “And I am very old.”
如果问一个俄罗斯人，“你好吗？”你会听到实话，不管这是好还是坏。他/她会很直接地表达不满，时不时说一些肠道问题的细节。我就因此在电梯里经历过很多痛苦的时刻，每次被问到这个问题，我的祖母（她一直生活在苏联，60多岁才搬到美国）总会回答：“糟透了，”然后她可能还会说，“为什么呢？因为人老起来是很糟的。”停顿。“而我已经很老了。”
Cue desperate thumbing of the “door open” button.
开始疯狂按电梯的开门按钮！
It feels as if I’ve spent half my life trying to smooth over the bafflement of my American friends and the hurt feelings of my Russian expat family as a result of this innocuous inquiry. “ ‘Fine’ makes Russians think that Americans have no soul,” I explained recently to an American-born friend. “That they just want to go home, eat a frozen dinner in front of the TV, and wait out the hours before going to work to make money again.”
感觉好像我大半辈子都在努力消除这个无关痛痒的问题给我美国朋友的困惑，抚平它给我的俄罗斯移民家庭造成的感情伤害。“‘挺好’会让俄国人认为美国人没有灵魂，”最近我给一个出生在美国的朋友解释道。“认为他们只是想回到家，坐在电视机前吃着从冰箱里拿出来的晚饭，在出门上班挣钱以前打发掉几个小时的时光。”
He laughed, then quickly sobered. “You know, there’s something to that.”
他哈哈大笑，但很快变得很严肃。“你知道的，这肯定说明了一些问题。”
But if the American “fine” can come off as plastic and insincere, the speed with which Russians unload intimate details is just as disturbing. I was born in Ukraine to Russian parents, but I grew up in the United States, and I get it. It’s like, “I don’t know you, Random Russian Lady, so why are you showing me your rash?”
但是，如果说美国人的“挺好”显得不自然、不真诚，那像俄国人那样快速地一股脑告诉你很多隐私细节也同样令人不舒服。我出生在乌克兰，父母是俄罗斯人，但我在美国长大，我很理解这种感受。就好像是，“我又不认识你，不知道从哪儿冒出来的俄罗斯女士，你为什么让我看你的皮疹？”
The thing most Russians don’t realize is that, in English, “How are you?” isn’t a question at all, but a form of “hi,” like the Russian “privyet!” The Americans weren’t responsible for its transformation; that honor goes to the British. The Oxford English Dictionary defines the phrase’s precursor, “How do you do?” as a common phrase “often used as a mere greeting or salutation.” The anodyne exchange dates at least as far back as 1604, to Shakespeare’s Othello, where Desdemona asks her husband, “How is’t with you, my lord?” and Othello replies “Well, my good lady.” Even though he is half-mad with jealousy and only five scenes away from murdering her.
大多数俄罗斯人意识不到的是，在英语中，“你好吗？”根本不是一个问题，而是一种打招呼的方式，就像是俄语中的“嘿，你好！”这种语义转变可不是美国人干的，而是英国人。《牛津英文词典》将这个短语的前身“你怎么样”定义为一个“经常用作打招呼或致敬”的惯常说法。这种礼貌性的问候要至少可以追溯到1604年，莎士比亚的《奥赛罗》，书中苔丝狄蒙娜(Desdemona)问她的丈夫，“你最近怎么样，大人？”奥赛罗回答道，“很好，我的好夫人。”尽管嫉妒心让他几乎疯狂，五场戏后就杀死了苔丝狄蒙娜。
Whereas it’s easy to read a particularly American optimism into the easy embrace of the auto-fine, Russians seem almost congenitally unable to fake fineness.
从这种随口说出“挺好”的举动很容易能看出一种美国人特有的乐观，但俄国人好像几乎天生不能假装美好。
The Russian food critic and cultural historian Anya von Bremzen recently offered me an intriguing hypothesis as to why this might be the case. In Soviet days, proclamations of joy, enthusiasm and optimism were associated with state propaganda and officialese. As a citizen of a Communist utopia, you were pretty much supposed to feel fine all the time (never mind the time you spent squabbling over the communal stove or waiting in a two-hour line to buy toilet paper). So, Ms. von Bremzen explained, a moan or a complaint would be considered a more authentic, non-state-sanctioned response to “how are you.”
最近，为了试图解释个中缘由，俄国美食评论家和文化历史学家阿尼娅·冯·博拉姆森(Anya von Bremzen)提出了一种十分有趣的假设。在苏联时期，对于喜悦、热情和乐观的表达都与国家宣传和官方说法有关。作为共产主义乌托邦的一名公民，你差不多每时每刻都要感觉“好”（因为一个共用的炉子而争吵，或者排两小时队买手纸这种事都不算什么）因此，博拉姆森说，哀叹或者抱怨会被认为是对“你怎么样”更加真实、不受国家左右的回应。
I liked this theory, but my father scoffed when I suggested it was the Soviets who devalued “fine.” By way of explanation, a quote from Dostoyevsky arrived in my inbox: “The most basic, most rudimentary spiritual need of the Russian people is the need for suffering, ever-present and unquenchable, everywhere and in everything.”
我喜欢这个说法，但当我表示是苏联人贬低了“挺好”的价值时，我的父亲嗤之以鼻。为进一步解释，父亲把陀思妥耶夫斯基的一句话发到我的邮箱：“俄国人最基础、最根本的精神需要是对痛苦的需求，它无时不在，又难以抑制，存在于所有地方和所有事物之中。”
Maybe that’s not such a bad thing. Psychologists at the University of Michigan have shown that, while Russians are, indeed, more prone to brooding than Americans, their open embrace of negative experiences might ultimately be healthier, resulting in fewer symptoms of depression.
也许这不是坏事。密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的心理学家曾表明，虽然和美国人相比，俄国人确实更倾向于忧思，但他们更加坦然接受负面经历，最终可能更健康，会出现更少的抑郁症状。
Recently, when I looked through a few American guides on traveling to Russia, I was disappointed to find that they all suggested that tourists adopt the American approach to “How are you” (“kak dela” in Russian) and lob back a hearty “Khorosho!” My advice? Don’t let “How are you” be your Waterloo. Instead, take a vacation from fineness.
最近，我翻了几本美国出版的俄罗斯旅游指南，很失望地发现他们建议游客用俄语表达“你好吗”这句美国式的问候(kak dela)，还教他们怎么用俄语回答(Khorosho!)。我的建议？别让“你好吗”成为你的滑铁卢。暂时离开美好世界吧。
If you lack the Russian vocabulary to fully express your unquenchable suffering, fear not — a lot of angst and ambivalence can be packed into just a word or two. Try “tak-sebe” (so-so) or “normalno” (the usual) or “eh” (eh). Even “fine” is fine. Injecting a world-weary sigh before your “khorosho” can neatly reverse its meaning, or render it shorthand for that other, more satisfyingly nuanced, response: It’s complicated.
如果你没有足够的俄语词汇来充分表达你难以抑制的痛苦，不要担心——很多焦虑和矛盾情绪用一两个词就能表达。试试tak sebe（还行）或者normalno（就那样吧）或者eh（凑合）。即使说“挺好的”也没关系。在“挺好”之前加上一声颇为厌世的叹息，就能够巧妙地改变它的意思，把它变成了一种简短的表达，来代替另一个更得体、更微妙的表达：一言难尽啊。