It’s been a pretty good couple of weeks for American foreign policy. No, seriously.
对于美国外交政策来说，这是相当不错的几个星期。并非玩笑，真的就是这样。
On June 23, the last of Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile was loaded onto a Danish freighter to be destroyed. The following day, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia asked his Parliament to rescind the permission that it had given him to send troops into Ukraine. Meanwhile, there is still cautious optimism that a nuclear deal with Iran is within reach.
6月23日，叙利亚的最后一批化学武器被装载到一艘丹麦货轮上，等待销毁。次日，俄罗斯总统普京要求国会撤销授予他的派兵进入乌克兰的权限。同时，对于和伊朗签订核协议一事，人们也仍然保持着谨慎乐观的态度。
What do these have in common? They were achieved without a single American bomb being dropped and they relied on a combination of diplomacy, economic sanctions and the coercive threat of military force. As policy makers and pundits remain focused on Iraq and the perennial but distracting discussion about the use of force, these modest but significant achievements have, perhaps predictably, been ignored. Yet they hold important lessons for how American power can be most effectively deployed today.
这些事件有哪些共同点呢？美国一颗炸弹也没有扔，这些成果完全是靠外交、经济制裁和武力威胁取得的。当政策制定者和专家们仍然聚焦于伊拉克，聚焦于“使用武力”这一持续经年、令人分心的讨论时，这些规模虽小、但却意义重大的成果就遭到了忽视，这倒也是可以想见的。然而，在美国如今怎样调配自身的力量最为有效方面，它们提供了一些重要经验。
Nine months ago, President Obama eschewed military means to punish Syria for its use of chemical weapons and instead negotiated an agreement to remove them. Critics like Senator John McCain blasted it as a “loser” deal that would never work. By refusing to back up a stated “red line” with military force, Mr. Obama had supposedly weakened American credibility.
九个月前，美国总统奥巴马没有对叙利亚使用化武的行为采取军事惩罚手段，而是通过谈判达成了一项销毁化武的协议。参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)等批评者抨击这是一个“失败者”的协议，永远不会奏效。据说，奥巴马拒绝用武力来维护规定的“红线”，而这可能削弱了美国的信誉。
In Damascus, however, the threat of military engagement by the United States was taken more seriously. And when given the choice between American bombing or giving up his chemical weapons, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria chose the latter.
但在大马士革，军事行动的威慑作用发挥了更大的作用。是被美国轰炸，还是放弃自己的化学武器？叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)选择了后者。
Four months ago, some pundits confidently declared that Mr. Putin had “won” in Crimea and would ignore a Western response of toothless sanctions. But Russia has paid a serious price for its actions in Ukraine: diplomatic isolation and an economic downturn spurred by capital outflows, declining foreign investment and international opprobrium.
四个月前，一些权威人士自信满满地宣称：普京会在克里米亚问题上“获胜”，西方施加制裁的应对做法软弱无力，会被普京无视。但俄罗斯却为自己在乌克兰的行动付出了沉重代价：遭受外交孤立和经济衰退，资本外流，外国投资减少，引发国际谴责。
Mr. Putin’s recent effort to tamp down tensions appears to be a response, in part, to the threat of further sanctions. In trying to operate outside the global system, Mr. Putin found that resistance to international norms came at an unacceptable cost.
普京最近试图平息紧张局势，似乎部分上是由于西方进一步制裁俄罗斯的威胁发挥了效果。普京想在全球系统之外运作，但却发现，和国际规范对抗将会付出无法承受的代价。
While it is far too early to declare success on the nuclear talks in Vienna, that the United States and Iran are sitting down at the negotiating table is a historic diplomatic achievement. When Mr. Obama spoke during the 2008 election campaign of his willingness to talk with Iran’s leaders, it led to criticisms that he was naïve about global politics. But his efforts as president to extend an olive branch, even as Iran continued to pursue its nuclear ambitions, enabled America to build support for the multilateral economic sanctions that helped make the current negotiations possible.
虽然现在宣布维也纳核谈判取得成功还为时过早，但美国和伊朗能够坐到谈判桌前就是一个历史性的外交成就。当奥巴马在2008年竞选演讲中表示，他愿意与伊朗领导人会谈时，一些人批评他在全球政治方面太天真。但是，即便伊朗继续推进其核野心，奥巴马总统也努力伸出橄榄枝，这为美国赢得了其他国家对多边经济制裁的支持；正是在多边经济制裁的帮助下，目前的谈判才成为了可能。
While one should be careful in drawing expansive judgments from disparate examples like these, there are noteworthy commonalities. The most obvious is that military force is not as effective as its proponents would have Americans believe. Had the United States bombed Syria or hit Iran’s nuclear infrastructure, it would almost certainly not have been as successful as the nonmilitary approaches used.
虽然从这种分散的例子中做出普遍推断需要小心谨慎，但它们之间确实也存在一些值得关注的共性。最明显的一点是，武力没有武力支持者希望美国人相信的那样有效。如果美国轰炸了叙利亚，或打击了伊朗核设施，效果肯定不会像采取非军事途径这么好。
Yet, at the outset of practically every international crisis, to bomb or not to bomb becomes the entire focus of debate. That false choice disregards the many other tools at America’s disposal. It doesn’t mean that force should never be considered, but that it should be the option of last resort. Force is a blunt instrument that produces unpredictable outcomes (for evidence, look no further than Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya).
然而，实际上每场国际危机开始时，要不要采用武力都会成为全部的争论焦点。人们在面对这个虚假选择题时，忽视了美国拥有的许多其他工具。这并不意味着武力永远不应该纳入考虑中，但它应该是万不得已时的最后选择。武力是一把钝器，会造成难以预料的后果（远的不提，看看伊拉克、阿富汗和利比亚的例子就知道了）。
What did work in these three situations was the patient diplomatic effort of building a global consensus. The success of international sanctions against Iran and Russia respectively relied on the support of both allies and rivals. Acting alone, the United States would never have achieved the same results.
在前述三个国家的局势中，真正起作用的是旨在打造全球共识的、耐性十足的外交努力。分别针对伊朗和俄罗斯的国际制裁之所以能取得成功，依靠的是盟友和竞争对手的支持。如果美国独自行动，永远不会达成同样的效果。
It wasn’t just Americans who were outraged by the seizure of Crimea — so, too, were nations that had few interests in the region. The reason is simple: When countries invade their neighbors with impunity, it puts every country at risk. A similar global consensus against chemical and nuclear proliferation, backed by international treaties, also served as the foundation for American diplomacy toward Iran and Syria.
对俄罗斯占领克里米亚感到愤怒的不光是美国——在该地区没有利益关系的国家也是如此。原因很简单：当所有国家都可以入侵邻国却免于处罚的时候，每个国家都处在风险之中。一个受到多项国际公约支持的反对化学武器和核武器扩散的类似全球共识，也是美国对伊朗和叙利亚的外交活动的基础。
Critics will fairly argue that these outcomes hardly justify great celebration. Mr. Assad has relinquished his chemical weapons, but the bloody civil war in Syria continues. Mr. Putin has backed off in eastern Ukraine, but he’s keeping Crimea. Iran may agree to a nuclear deal, but it will remain a destabilizing power with the potential to upgrade its nuclear capacity.
批评人士可以说，这些成果并不值得大肆庆祝。阿萨德放弃了化学武器，但叙利亚的血腥内战仍在继续。普京已经从乌克兰东部撤兵，但仍然占有克里米亚。伊朗可能会同意一项核协议，但它拥有升级核能力的潜力，仍然具有破坏稳定的力量。
This speaks to the limitations of American power. The United States cannot stop every conflict or change every nefarious regime. Any foreign policy predicated on such ambitions will consistently fail.
这就证明了美国实力的局限性。美国不可能阻止每一场冲突，或改变每一个邪恶的政权。任何基于此类宏伟目标而制定的外交政策都注定会失败。