Just as we’ve turned the coverage of politics into sports, we’re doing the same with geopolitics. There is much nonsense being written about how Vladimir Putin showed how he is “tougher” than Barack Obama and how Obama now needs to demonstrate his manhood. This is how great powers get drawn into the politics of small tribes and end up in great wars that end badly for everyone. We vastly exaggerate Putin’s strength — so does he — and we vastly underestimate our own strength, and ability to weaken him through nonmilitary means.
正如我们把政治报道变成了体育报道，我们对地缘政治的报道也如出一辙。还有更多像弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)是如何彰显自己比贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)“更强悍”，奥巴马眼下需要如何展现自己的男子汉气概，这样的种种胡话正在造出。这就是大国如何卷入小部族政治，如何加入大战，又如何最终令所有人都遭殃的。我们极大地夸大了普京的力量——他自己也一样——我们还极大地低估了自己的力量和我们通过非军事途径削弱普京的能力。
Let’s start with Putin. Any man who actually believes, as Putin has said, that the breakup of the Soviet Union was “the greatest geopolitical catastrophe” of the 20th century is caught up in a dangerous fantasy that can’t end well for him or his people. The Soviet Union died because Communism could not provide rising standards of living, and its collapse actually unleashed boundless human energy all across Eastern Europe and Russia. A wise Putin would have redesigned Russia so its vast human talent could take advantage of all that energy. He would be fighting today to get Russia into the European Union, not to keep Ukraine out. But that is not who Putin is and never will be. He is guilty of the soft bigotry of low expectations toward his people and prefers to turn Russia into a mafia-run petro-state — all the better to steal from.
让我们从普京说起。普京曾说，苏联的解体是20世纪“最严重的地缘政治灾难”。任何真心这么想的人，都陷入了危险的幻觉，不管是对普京，还是对他的人民而言，这都不会带来好的结果。苏联的终结，是因为共产主义无法提高生活标准，它的解体实际上释放了东欧各国民众及俄罗斯民众无限的力量。如果普京明智的话，他早就已经重新对俄罗斯做出布局，如此一来，俄罗斯国内的无数人才就能充分利用这股力量。今天，他就会为了让俄罗斯加入欧盟而奋斗，而不是把乌克兰挡在欧盟之外。然而，普京不是这样的人，以后也绝不会变成这样的人。普京的过错在于，他对自己的人民抱有一种“低预期的软偏见”，他倾向于把俄罗斯变成一个由黑手党统治的石油之国——更适合窃取利益。
So Putin is now fighting human nature among his own young people and his neighbors — who both want more E.U. and less Putinism. To put it in market terms, Putin is long oil and short history. He has made himself steadily richer and Russia steadily more reliant on natural resources rather than its human ones. History will not be kind to him — especially if energy prices ever collapse.
因此，普京是在对抗本国年轻民众和邻国民众的本能选择，这些人都希望能靠欧盟更近、离普京主义更远。用市场术语来说，普京是在做多石油、做空历史。他让自己日渐富有，而俄罗斯却日益依赖本国的自然资源，而非人力资源。历史不会厚待他——能源价格暴跌之时尤甚。
So spare me the Putin-body-slammed-Obama prattle. This isn’t All-Star Wrestling. The fact that Putin has seized Crimea, a Russian-speaking zone of Ukraine, once part of Russia, where many of the citizens prefer to be part of Russia and where Russia has a major naval base, is not like taking Poland. I support economic and diplomatic sanctions to punish Russia for its violation of international norms and making clear that harsher sanctions, even military aid for Kiev, would ensue should Putin try to bite off more of Ukraine. But we need to remember that that little corner of the world is always going to mean more, much more, to Putin than to us, and we should refrain from making threats on which we’re not going to deliver.
所以，别再和我扯什么普京重击奥巴马的鬼话。这不是全明星摔跤赛(All-Star Wrestling)。普京占领克里米亚和占领波兰不一样，克里米亚是乌克兰境内的俄语区，它曾是俄罗斯的一部分，那里的许多公民宁可加入俄罗斯，而且俄罗斯在那里有一个重要的海军基地。我支持动用经济和外交制裁来惩罚俄罗斯违背国际准则的行为，支持明确表示，如果普京试图进一步侵占乌克兰，美国采取更严厉的制裁，甚至向基辅提供军事援助。不过，我们需要谨记，世界上的那个小角落对普京的意义，一向远大于它对我们的意义，我们应该避免发出并不打算兑现的威胁。
What disturbs me about Crimea is the larger trend it fits into, that Putinism used to just be a threat to Russia but is now becoming a threat to global stability. I opposed expanding NATO toward Russia after the Cold War, when Russia was at its most democratic and least threatening. It remains one of the dumbest things we’ve ever done and, of course, laid the groundwork for Putin’s rise.
克里米亚让我担心的一点，是它契合了一种更重要的趋势：普京主义曾经仅对俄罗斯构成威胁，然而现在，它对全球的稳定都构成了威胁。冷战结束后，我反对北约(NATO)向着俄罗斯的方向扩张，当时的俄罗斯正处于历史上最民主、也是威胁最小的时期。这依然是我们做过最蠢的事之一，当然，它为普京的崛起打下了基础。
For a long time, Putin has exploited the humiliation and anti-Western attitudes NATO expansion triggered to gain popularity, but this seems to have become so fundamental to his domestic politics that it has locked him into a zero-sum relationship with the West that makes it hard to see how we collaborate with him in more serious trouble spots, like Syria or Iran. President Bashar al-Assad of Syria is engaged in monstrous, genocidal behavior that also threatens the stability of the Middle East. But Putin stands by him. At least half the people of Ukraine long to be part of Europe, but he treated that understandable desire as a NATO plot and quickly resorted to force.
在相当长的时期里，普京曾利用北约东扩引发的耻辱感和反西方态度来积累人气，然而，这种做法似乎成了普京处理内政的首要基础，以至于他深深陷入和西方的零和博弈而无法自拔，这让我们难以看到，该如何在叙利亚或伊朗等局势更糟糕的地区，和普京进行合作。叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)参与了骇人听闻的种族灭绝暴行，这对中东的稳定也构成了威胁。可是普京却支持他。至少有一半乌克兰国民渴望加入欧盟，可是普京却把这种可以理解的愿望，当成了北约的阴谋，并迅速诉诸武力。