After 60 years of crushing, fighting and roaring, Godzilla shows no signs of stopping. The oversize lizard that has attracted generations of fans returns Friday in a film that harks back to the creature’s roots. The filmmakers behind the latest iteration mainly used the 1954 original, from Toho Studios, as a template for fleshing out the monster’s looks and the movie’s narrative.
经过了60年的碾压、打斗和咆哮，哥斯拉还没有停止的迹象。这只超大型的蜥蜴吸引了一代又一代粉丝，周五（这里指5月9日——编注）它又将在一部追溯其本源的影片中再度归来。新作的制作者们主要使用了1954年Toho制片公司创造的形象作为模版，令这只怪兽的形象与影片的故事丰满起来。
Gareth Edwards, who directed the new version, told his designers to imagine Godzilla as an animal that had really existed and that, 60 years ago, some people saw rise from the sea off Japan. They didn’t have a camera, so they described the creature, and Toho made its films based on those accounts. “In our film, people are going to see the original animal that those people witnessed back then,” Mr. Edwards said, speaking by phone from Los Angeles. So his design, to some degree, was a reverse-engineering job: building the creature that inspired the Toho movies.
新版本的导演加雷斯·爱德华兹(Gareth Edwards)要设计师们把哥斯拉想像成一种真实存在的动物，60年前，有人看到它从日本附近的海中浮现出来。他们手头没有相机，所以向别人描述这种生物，Toho公司就根据这些描述拍了哥斯拉电影。“在我们的影片中，观众可以亲眼看到当年人们目击的那个动物，”爱德华兹在洛杉矶接受电话采访时说。所以他的设计从某种程度上是一种逆向工程：要创造那种启发了Toho电影灵感的动物。
Mr. Edwards said he figured that designing would be the simplest task, because, “everybody knows what Godzilla looks like.” He soon realized it was the most difficult part: “The problem is everybody thinks they know what Godzilla looks like. But it’s kind of like witnessing the scene of a crime, where your memory of it is slightly different than what you think.”
爱德华兹说，他本以为设计工作其实是最简单的任务，因为“所有人都知道哥斯拉长得什么样”。但他很快发现，这其实是最难的部分：“问题是，所有人都觉得自己知道哥斯拉长得什么样。但这就像目击犯罪现场一样，你的记忆和你所以为的之间有细微的差别。”
Godzilla has had many faces (and a varied number of toes) over the years. Here are some of the creature’s cinematic incarnations, with commentary from the filmmakers behind the new movie, the director of the first American effects version and William Tsutsui, a dean of humanities at Southern Methodist University, who wrote the 2004 book “Godzilla on My Mind.”
多年来，哥斯拉有了很多不同的面孔（脚趾的数目也各不相同）。这里是若干这种生物的典型银幕形象，辅以新电影的制片人、第一位美国哥斯拉影片导演，以及南方卫理公会大学人文学科系主任、2004年的《哥斯拉在我心中》(Godzilla on My Mind)一书作者威廉·简井（音译，William Tsutsui）的点评。
First Time, It’s Serious
第一次，非常严肃
In the original, surprisingly solemn “Godzilla,” the monster was bottom heavy. “It was the first costume they made, so they really hadn’t worked out the technology of it,” Mr. Tsutsui said in a phone interview. The costume’s framework was wire and bamboo strips, with latex around those elements. “There wasn’t much expressive possibility in that early monster, which I think captured some of the majesty of Godzilla.” With dorsal fins and a large tail, the creature was clearly threatening. Mr. Tsutsui said his makers were influenced by illustrations of dinosaurs, including an article in Life magazine. And Godzilla’s skin reminded Mr. Tsutsui of the scar tissue on the victims of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic bombs. In writing the new screenplay, Max Borenstein was influenced by the original. “It had all these really deep and resonant themes about nuclear disaster and the fears of the atomic bomb, which were very present only nine years after World War II,” he said by phone. “I thought, ‘We need to do what they did, use this creature as a metaphor for a fear that’s very primal.' ”
第一部《哥斯拉》电影异常庄严，里面的怪兽非常笨重。“这是他们做的哥斯拉的第一个装束，所以他们还没掌握技术，”简井在电话采访中说。这个装束的框架是用金属线和竹篾制成的，外面涂上乳胶。“这个早期的怪兽没有多少传达情感的能力，我觉得这也是哥斯拉显得非常庄严的原因。”哥斯拉背部有鳍，还有巨大的尾巴，显然十分凶恶。简井说，创作者们受到恐龙图画的影响，包括《生活》杂志上的一篇文章。哥斯拉的皮肤让简井想到广岛和长崎原子弹爆炸受害者布满疤痕的皮肤。在创作新剧剧本时，马克斯·波伦斯坦(Max Borenstein)深受原作影响。“最早的影片是在’二战’结束九年后上映的，它有着深刻的、能引起人们共鸣的主题，关乎核灾难以及对原子弹的恐惧，”他在电话采访中说。“我觉得，‘我们也要做他们做过的事，用这种动物作为隐喻，反映一种非常原始的恐惧。’”
No Lover, But a Fighter
不是爱人，而是斗士
As Godzilla grew in popularity, his look changed to a less spiky, more kid-friendly design. One curious detail, which Mr. Tsutsui noticed in his research, is that Godzilla goes from four toes on each foot to three. That change might seem innocuous, but Mr. Tsutsui said there was a significant reason for it. “In Japan, four is a very unlucky number,” he noted. “So it makes sense that at the periods when Godzilla has been the most ominous, he should have four toes. In the period when he was less threatening, he would have three toes.” The campy “Godzilla vs. Megalon” (1973) presents a monster far less scary than originally imagined. By this stage, he is no longer destroying cities, but mostly battling other monsters. Because these fights involve a good amount of wrestling, the costume is lighter and leaner, with fewer embellishments, making the G-lizard look a bit more human. Mr. Tsutsui sees the changes as pragmatic. “It’s hard to have wrestling scenes if your dorsal fins keep falling off,” he said, “or if your tail is too long.”
随着哥斯拉愈来愈流行，它的外貌变得不那么愤怒了，而是变得讨小孩子喜欢了。简井在研究中提到这样一个有趣的细节：哥斯拉的脚趾从每只脚四个趾头变成了三个趾头。这个变化似乎无关紧要，但简井说，这是出于一个重要的原因。“在日本，四是非常不吉利的数字，”他说，“所以当它是最不吉利的动物时，它就应该有四个脚趾。后来它变得不那么危险，就变成三个脚趾了。”1973年，做作的《哥斯拉对美加洛》(Godzilla vs. Megalon)一片中的怪物远远没有最早的哥斯拉可怕。这一次，它不再摧毁城市，主要是和其他怪物搏斗。因为这些战斗中有大量摔角，所以装束也要轻便简洁，没有多少装饰，让哥斯拉看起来更像人一些。简井觉得这种变化具有实际意义。“如果背鳍一直掉下来或者尾巴太长的话，拍摔角戏很不方便。”
One Built For Speed
为了速度
The 1998 version of “Godzilla,” directed by Roland Emmerich, drew big box office but also criticism. It lost the man-in-a-suit concept for a digital monster. “I hired Patrick Tatopoulos and told him this thing has to be fast, because lizards are fast,” Mr. Emmerich said in a phone interview. “He came up with a design, and they told us we had to go to Japan to get it approved.” Mr. Tatopoulos’s design made Godzilla iguanalike, slinking crouched through the city. In taking the design to Toho, Mr. Emmerich timed the visit to when “Independence Day” was opening the Tokyo film festival: “Toho, who had the rights to ‘Godzilla,’ was also the distributor of ‘Independence Day.’ That naturally was in our favor.” As for the Toho reps, “I saw it in their face that they weren’t prepared for that version,” Mr. Emmerich said. “But because ‘Independence Day’ had been a huge hit, they thought, ‘Oh God, we cannot say no to this guy.' ” Mr. Emmerich made his version. Toho used the man-in-a-suit formula in “Godzilla 2000.”
1998年的《哥斯拉》由罗兰·艾默里奇(Roland Emmerich)导演，吸引了巨大票房的同时也收到很多批评。它用数码怪兽取代了演员穿戏服的怪兽。“我雇来帕特里克·塔托普洛斯(Patrick Tatopoulos)，告诉他这东西动作要快，因为蜥蜴动作就是很快，”艾默里奇在电话采访中说。“他做出了一个设计，然后他们告诉我们，我们得到日本去获得批准。”塔托普洛斯的设计让哥斯拉看上去像鬣鳞蜥，屈着身子悄悄走过城市。把这个造型拿到Toho的时候，艾默里奇选了《独立日》(Independence Day)在东京电影节上首映的那天。“Toho有《哥斯拉》的所有权，也是《独立日》的发行人，这自然对我们很有利。”至于Toho方面的反应，“我从他们的表情可以看出，这个造型出乎他们意料，”艾默里奇说。“但是因为《独立日》成了大热影片，他们就觉得，‘天哪，我们可不能拒绝这家伙。’”艾默里奇确定了他的这个版本。而Toho又推出了真人穿戏装形态的《哥斯拉2000》。
Check Out That Kisser
瞧这个接吻高手
The 2014 Godzilla is digital, but the team has taken great care to make him recognizable. “It was less about designing something iconic and never seen before, and more about giving reality to a familiar face,” said Andrew Baker, a creature designer at WETA Workshop, which worked on the new monster. The filmmakers wanted an angular and hard-lined face. Mr. Edwards thought rounded features connoted a Godzilla that was too cute. “When you’re designing the face, you end up in this triangle of potential pitfalls,” he said. “If you go too much in one direction, he looks like a dragon; too much in another direction, he looks like a kitty; and too much in a third direction, he looks like a dinosaur.” After seeing the Skeksis creatures from the book “The Dark Crystal,” he decided to employ the appearance of a bird of prey. “There’s something noble about eagles and birds of prey, and it’s mainly because the top of their nose is very close to the brow of their eyes.” Godzilla got deep eye sockets, which accentuate his cheekbones.
2014年的哥斯拉是数码的，但是团队非常努力，让它看上去有特色。“我们不是要设计某种以前从来没有见过的符号性的东西，而是要为一张熟悉的面孔赋予真实性，”负责设计这个怪物新形象的WETA工作室生物设计师安德鲁·贝克(Andrew Baker)说。电影制作者们希望它的脸棱角突出，线条分明。爱德华兹觉得哥斯拉身上的圆形特征让它显得太可爱了。“当你设计面部的时候，到最后就会落入一个三角陷阱，”他说。“如果太强调其中一个方面，看上去就像龙；太强调另一个方面，看上去就像小猫；太强调第三个方面，看上去又像恐龙。”看了《黑暗水晶》(TheDark Crystal)这本书里虚构的斯盖克西斯(Skeksis)生物，他决定借鉴猛禽的样子。“老鹰和猛禽有一种高贵气质，主要是因为它们的鼻子顶端和眉毛离得非常近。”于是哥斯拉有了深深的眼眶，强调出高耸的颧骨。