It’s 2 a.m. The bar is closing. Republicans have had a series of strong and nasty Trump cocktails. Suddenly Ted Cruz is beginning to look kind of attractive. At least he’s sort of predictable, and he doesn’t talk about his sexual organs in presidential debates!
现在就像是酒吧即将打烊的凌晨2点。共和党人已经喝下了一连串苦涩的烈性特朗普鸡尾酒。突然之间，特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)变得看上去有些诱人了。至少他在一定程度上是可预测的，而且他不会在总统辩论中讨论自己的性器官！
Well, Republicans, have your standards really fallen so low so fast? Are you really that desperate? Can you remember your 8 p.m. selves, and all the hope you had about entering a campaign with such a deep bench of talented candidates?
唉，共和党的朋友们，你们的标准真的这么快就降到这么低了吗？你们真的那么绝望？你们还能想起晚上8点时自己的样子吗？还记得你们在竞选初始阶段看到由才华横溢的候选人构成的板凳深度时所怀的希望吗？
Back in the early evening, before the current panic set in, Republicans understood that Ted Cruz would be a terrible general election candidate, at least as unelectable as Donald Trump and maybe more so. He is the single most conservative Republican in Congress, far adrift from the American mainstream. He’s been doing well in primaries because of the support of “extremely conservative” voters in very conservative states, and he really hasn’t broken out of that lane. His political profile is a slightly enlarged Rick Santorum but without the heart.
回到傍晚时分。那时，当前的恐慌尚未袭来，共和党认为，特德·克鲁兹是很糟糕的大选候选人，最起码和唐纳德·特朗普一样不可能当选，甚至还不如特朗普。他是国会里最保守的共和党人，远远游离于美国的主流之外。他在初选中迄今表现出色是因为在几个非常保守的州里得到了“极端保守”的选民的支持。他从未突破这个群体。他的政治形象就是稍稍放大后的里克·桑托勒姆(Rick Santorum)，却没有后者的爱心。
On policy grounds, he would be unacceptable to a large majority in this country. But his policy disadvantages are overshadowed by his public image ones. His rhetorical style will come across to young and independent voters as smarmy and oleaginous. In Congress, he had two accomplishments: the disastrous government shutdown and persuading all his colleagues to dislike him.
从政策上来说，美国的绝大部分人不会接受克鲁兹。但是，他在政策方面的不足，被他的公众形象掩盖了。他的说话风格会让年轻的独立选民认为他是在阿谀奉承、蓄意迎合。在国会，他取得了两项成就：灾难性的政府停摆和说服所有同事不喜欢自己。
There is another path, one that doesn’t leave you self-loathing in the morning. It’s a long shot, but given the alternatives, it’s worth trying. First, hit the pause button on the rush to Cruz. Second, continue the Romneyesque assault on Trump. The results on Saturday, when late voters swung sharply against the Donald, suggest it may be working.
其实，还有另外一条道路，可以让共和党不用在早上醒来后自怨自艾。虽然成功的可能性很小，但考虑到其他替代方案，这条道路仍值得一试。首先，不要一窝蜂地去支持克鲁兹。其次，继续对特朗普进行罗姆尼式的攻击。周六的投票结果显示，这个办法可能会起作用。当天，较晚投票的选民大幅倒向了不支持唐纳德的阵营。
Third, work for a Marco Rubio miracle in Florida on March 15. Fourth, clear the field for John Kasich in Ohio. If Rubio and Kasich win their home states, Trump will need to take nearly 70 percent of the remaining delegates to secure a majority. That would be unlikely; he’s only winning 44 percent of the delegates now.
第三，为3月15日将在佛罗里达州上演的马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)奇迹而努力。第四，在俄亥俄州为约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)清除障碍。如果卢比奥和卡西奇拿下各自的家乡，特朗普就需要争取到剩余代表中近70%的支持，才能获得最终的多数。这是不太可能的；他现在只获得了44%的代表的支持。
The party would go to the convention without a clear nominee. It would be bedlam for a few days, but a broadly acceptable new option might emerge. It would be better than going into the fall with Trump, which would be a moral error, or Cruz, who in November would manage to win several important counties in Mississippi.
这样，当共和党召开全国大会时，还没有一个明确的提名人选。混乱局面也许会持续几天，但在这一过程中可能会出现一个普遍可以接受的新人选。这也好过和特朗普或克鲁兹一起陨落。选择特朗普是道德错误，而克鲁兹则可能会在11月可怜巴巴地拿下密西西比州几个重要的县吧。
This isn’t about winning the presidency in 2016 anymore. This is about something much bigger. Every 50 or 60 years, parties undergo a transformation. The G.O.P. is undergoing one right now. What happens this year will set the party’s trajectory for decades.
这已经不再只是关乎赢得2016年的总统大选了。它的意义远不止于此。每五六十年，政党都会经历一次变革。共和党现在正处于这个阶段。今年发生的事情，将决定共和党未来几十年的走向。
Since Goldwater/Reagan, the G.O.P. has been governed by a free-market, anti-government philosophy. But over the ensuing decades new problems have emerged. First, the economy has gotten crueler. Technology is displacing workers and globalization is dampening wages. Second, the social structure has atomized and frayed, especially among the less educated. Third, demography is shifting.
自戈德华特/里根时代以来，统治共和党的是一种提倡自由市场、反对政府的理念。但随后几十年里的安逸岁月里，出现了新的问题。首先，经济变得愈发残忍。科技取代劳动力，全球化抑制工资的上涨。其次，社会结构分化受损，特别是在受教育程度教低的群体中。第三，人口结构正在发生变化。
Orthodox Republicans, seeing no positive role for government, have had no affirmative agenda to help people deal with these new problems. Occasionally some conservative policy mavens have proposed such an agenda — anti-poverty programs, human capital policies, wage subsidies and the like — but the proposals were killed, usually in the House, by the anti-government crowd.
认为政府不可能起到积极作用的正统共和党人，没有明确议程可以帮助人们应对这些新问题。偶尔会有一些保守派政策专家提出此类议程——扶贫项目、人力资本政策、工资补贴，诸如此类——但这些提议通常在众议院投票中，就被那群否定政府作用的人否决了。
The 1980s anti-government orthodoxy still has many followers; Ted Cruz is the extreme embodiment of this tendency. But it has grown increasingly rigid, unresponsive and obsolete.
如今依然有很多人信奉上世纪八十年代那种否定政府的正统观念；特德·克鲁兹是这种趋势的极端代表。只是，这种观念已经变得越来越死板、越来越迟钝，也越来越不合时宜了。
Along comes Donald Trump offering to replace it and change the nature of the G.O.P. He tramples all over the anti-government ideology of modern Republicanism. He would replace the free-market orthodoxy with authoritarian nationalism.
在这一过程中，出现了唐纳德·特朗普这样的人，提出要改变这种观念，改变共和党的本质。他将现代共和党否定政府的整体思想体系踩在脚下。他要用威权的民族主义，替代自由市场的正统理论。
He offers to use government on behalf of the American working class, but in negative and defensive ways: to build walls, to close trade, to ban outside groups, to smash enemies. According to him, America’s problems aren’t caused by deep structural shifts. They’re caused by morons and parasites. The Great Leader will take them down.
他提出，要代表美国工薪阶层发挥政府作用，但方式却是负面、防御性的：修建隔离墙、取消贸易往来、禁止外围团体、打垮敌人。在他看来，美国的问题不是由深层次的结构转型带来的，而是由笨蛋和寄生虫导致的。伟大的领袖会把他们都拿下。
If the G.O.P. is going to survive as a decent and viable national party, it can’t cling to the fading orthodoxy Cruz represents. But it can’t shift to ugly Trumpian nationalism, either. It has to find a third alternative: limited but energetic use of government to expand mobility and widen openness and opportunity. That is what Kasich, Rubio, Paul Ryan and others are stumbling toward.
如果共和党还要作为一个体面和有希望的全国性政党存在下去，就不能再死死抓住日渐褪色的克鲁兹式正统观念不放。但它也不能走上可怕的特朗普式民族主义道路。它必须选择第三条路：有限但却有力地发挥政府作用，增强社会流动性，扩大开放性和增加机遇。这是卡森、卢比奥、保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)和其他人正跌跌撞撞努力奔向的道路。
Amid all the vulgarity and pettiness, that is what is being fought over this month: going back to the past, veering into an ugly future, or finding a third way. This is something worth fighting for, worth burning the boats behind you for.
在各种粗俗和狭隘的言论之中，这才是本月的争论点所在：退回过去，走向一个丑陋的未来，还是寻找第三条路。这是值得为之奋斗的东西，值得你背水一战。
The hour is late and the odds may be long. But there is still hope. It’s a moment for audacity, not settling for Ted Cruz simply because he’s the Titanic you know.
时机已晚，赢面不大，但仍有希望。这是一个需要大胆行动的时刻，而非勉强接受特德·克鲁兹这个选项，只因他是一艘撞向冰山的巨轮。