A few days ago, I was on a panel on Bill Maher’s television show on HBO that became a religious war.
几天前，我参加了比尔·马赫(Bill Maher)在HBO的节目，并进行了一场讨论。结果那场讨论变成了宗教战争。
Whether or not Islam itself inspires conflict, debates about it certainly do. Our conversation degenerated into something close to a shouting match and went viral on the web. Maher and a guest, Sam Harris, argued that Islam is dangerous yet gets a pass from politically correct liberals, while the actor Ben Affleck denounced their comments as “gross” and “racist.” I sided with Affleck.
无论伊斯兰教本身是不是会激发冲突，关于它的辩论肯定会激起冲突。我们的对话变成了吼声比赛，那段视频也在网上广为流传。马赫与嘉宾山姆·哈里斯(Sam Harris)认为，伊斯兰教是危险的，但它却受到了主张政治正确的自由派的袒护。而演员本·阿弗莱克(Ben Affleck)则指责他们的评论“恶心”、“种族主义”。我和阿弗莱克持相同立场。
After the show ended, we panelists continued to wrangle on the topic for another hour with the cameras off. Maher ignited a debate that is rippling onward, so let me offer three points of nuance.
节目结束后，我们几个参与讨论的人在摄像机关掉的情况下又围绕这个议题争辩了一个小时。马赫挑起的这场辩论产生的影响还在继续传播，容我来详细阐述三点。
First, historically, Islam was not particularly intolerant, and it initially elevated the status of women. Anybody looking at the history even of the 20th century would not single out Islam as the bloodthirsty religion; it was Christian/Nazi/Communist Europe and Buddhist/Taoist/Hindu/atheist Asia that set records for mass slaughter.
首先，伊斯兰教在历史上并非特别不宽容，最初它还提升了妇女的地位。哪怕只是回顾20世纪的历史，任何人都不会单独将伊斯兰教称为嗜血的宗教。在大规模屠杀方面创下纪录的是基督教/纳粹/共产主义的欧洲，以及佛教/道教/印度教/无神论的亚洲。
Likewise, it is true that the Quran has passages hailing violence, but so does the Bible, which recounts God ordering genocides, such as the one against the Amalekites.
相似的，《古兰经》里的确有称颂暴力的段落，但《圣经》里也有。后者写道上帝曾下令大屠杀，比如对亚玛力人(Amalekites)的屠戮。
Second, today the Islamic world includes a strain that truly is disproportionately intolerant and oppressive. Barbarians in the Islamic State cite their faith as the reason for their monstrous behavior — most recently beheading a British aid worker devoted to saving Muslim lives — and give all Islam a bad name. Moreover, of the 10 bottom-ranking countries in the World Economic Forum’s report on women’s rights, nine are majority Muslim. In Afghanistan, Jordan and Egypt, more than three-quarters of Muslims favor the death penalty for Muslims who renounce their faith, according to a Pew survey.
第二，今天的伊斯兰世界里，包括一个的确异常不宽容、异常暴虐的派系。伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的野蛮人以自己的宗教为理由，做出骇人听闻的行径，也让整个伊斯兰教因此背上恶名——最近他们斩首的那名英国援助工作者，生前就投身于挽救穆斯林的生命。此外，在世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)发布的妇女权益报告中，排名垫底的十个国家里，有九个国家穆斯林人口占多数。皮尤(Pew)的一项调查显示，在阿富汗、约旦和埃及，超过四分之三的穆斯林支持对抛弃信仰的穆斯林处以死刑。
The persecution of Christians, Ahmadis, Yazidis, Bahai — and Shiites — is far too common in the Islamic world. We should speak up about it.
在伊斯兰世界，基督徒、阿哈默底亚派(Ahmadis)、雅兹迪人、巴哈伊信徒，乃至什叶派受到的迫害都太过普遍。我们必须为此大声疾呼。
Third, the Islamic world contains multitudes: It is vast and varied. Yes, almost four out of five Afghans favor the death penalty for apostasy, but most Muslims say that that is nuts. In Indonesia, the most populous Muslim country in the world, only 16 percent of Muslims favor such a penalty. In Albania, Azerbaijan, and Kazakhstan, only 2 percent or fewer Muslims favor it, according to the Pew survey.
第三，伊斯兰世界有多种层面，它是广阔而多样的。的确，将近五分之四的阿富汗人支持对叛教者处以死刑，但大多数穆斯林认为这样做太过火了。皮尤的调查显示，在世界上人口最多的穆斯林国家印度尼西亚，只有16%的穆斯林支持这种刑罚。在阿尔巴尼亚、阿塞拜疆、哈萨克斯坦，只有2%甚至更少的穆斯林支持。
Beware of generalizations about any faith because they sometimes amount to the religious equivalent of racial profiling. Hinduism contained both Gandhi and the fanatic who assassinated him. The Dalai Lama today is an extraordinary humanitarian, but the fifth Dalai Lama in 1660 ordered children massacred “like eggs smashed against rocks.”
对于概括任何一种宗教的说法，都应当小心，因为这样做有时候相当于宗教意义上的“种族定性”(racial profiling)。印度教既培育了甘地，也催生了刺杀甘地的狂徒。今天的达赖喇嘛是一位杰出的人道主义者，但五世达赖喇嘛却曾在1660年下令像“把鸡蛋砸在石头上”那样，屠杀儿童。
Christianity encompassed the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and also the 13th century papal legate who in France ordered the massacre of 20,000 Cathar men, women and children for heresy, reportedly saying: Kill them all; God will know his own.
基督教既包括牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)，也包括13世纪在法国下令屠杀卡特里派(Cathar)的教皇特使。后者宣称卡特里派是异教徒，于是杀害了2万名男女老幼，根据记载他曾说：全都杀掉，上帝会知道谁是自己人。
One of my scariest encounters was with mobs of Javanese Muslims who were beheading people they accused of sorcery and carrying their heads on pikes. But equally repugnant was the Congo warlord who styled himself a Pentecostal pastor; while facing charges of war crimes, he invited me to dinner and said a most pious grace.
我遇到过的最惊悚的场景之一，是一群爪哇穆斯林暴民把他们认为搞巫术的人的脑袋砍掉，举在长矛顶上。但同样令人厌恶的是一个自诩五旬节派牧师的刚果军阀。他在面对战争罪指控之时曾邀请我就餐，席间他还念了一段颇为虔诚的祷词。
The caricature of Islam as a violent and intolerant religion is horrendously incomplete. Remember that those standing up to Muslim fanatics are mostly Muslims. In Pakistan, a gang of Muslim men raped a young Muslim woman named Mukhtar Mai as punishment for a case involving her brother; after testifying against her attackers and winning in the courts, she selflessly used the compensation money she received from the government to start a school for girls in her village. The Taliban gunmen who shot Malala Yousafzai for advocating for education were Muslims; so was Malala.
把伊斯兰教戏谑地描绘成一种暴力、不宽容的宗教，片面到了可怕的地步。请记住，面对穆斯林狂徒挺身而出的，大多也是穆斯林。在巴基斯坦，一群穆斯林男子轮奸了一个名叫穆赫塔尔·马伊(Mukhtar Mai)的穆斯林女性，原因是对一起涉及她兄弟的事件进行报复。她在法庭上作证指认侵犯她的那些人，最后打赢了官司。之后，她用从政府那里得到的补偿金，在自己的村子里为女童开了一所学校。因为马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)推广教育而枪击她的塔利班枪手是穆斯林，但马拉拉自己也是穆斯林。
Iran has persecuted Christians and Bahais, but a Muslim lawyer, Mohammad Ali Dadkhah, showed enormous courage by challenging the repression and winning release of a pastor. Dadkhah is now serving a nine-year prison sentence.
伊朗迫害基督徒和巴哈伊信徒，但穆斯林律师穆罕默德·阿里·达德哈(Mohammad Ali Dadkhah)却展示出了巨大的勇气，对迫害发起抗争，让一位牧师获释。达德哈后来被判处九年监禁，现在正在狱中服刑。
A lawyer friend of mine in Pakistan, Rashid Rehman, was a great champion of human rights and religious tolerance — and was assassinated this year by fundamentalists who stormed his office.
我在巴基斯坦的一位律师朋友拉希德·拉赫曼(Rashid Rehman)是人权和宗教宽容的倡导者。今年，原教旨主义者冲进他的办公室，把他杀害了。
Sure, denounce the brutality, sexism and intolerance that animate the Islamic State and constitute a significant strain within Islam. But don’t confuse that with all Islam: Heroes like Mukhtar, Malala, Dadkhah and Rehman also represent an important element.
我们肯定要谴责暴行、性别歧视和不宽容的行为，这些行为激发起了伊斯兰国，也代表了伊斯兰教中一个不容忽视的派系。但请不要把他们与整个伊斯兰教相混淆：穆赫塔尔、马拉拉、达德哈、拉赫曼这样的英雄，同样代表着一个重要的群体。