Northampton, Mass. — Darfur may have dropped out of international headlines, but that does not mean the region enjoys peace. Far from it. A renewed escalation of violence by the Sudanese government against non-Arab ethnic groups threatens to compound a humanitarian disaster that, according to United Nations estimates, over the past 13 years displaced more than 2.7 million people in Darfur and an additional 380,000 refugees to eastern Chad.
马萨诸塞州北安普敦——达尔富尔可能已经从国际头条中消失了，但这并不意味着这一地区太平无事了。远非如此。苏丹政府针对非阿拉伯族群的暴力活动重新升级，这可能会加剧那里的人道主义危机。据联合国估计，过去13年里，这场危机已造成达尔富尔270多万人流离失所，38万难民涌入东边的乍得。
Darfur has become a focus again because the regime in Khartoum is desperate to end one of three active rebellions in the country, conflicts that have left its military badly overstretched while a failing economy is causing civil unrest.
达尔富尔再度成为焦点。因为喀土穆的政权面对着三场活跃的反叛运动，它目前急不可耐地想要结束其中一场。这些冲突导致该国军队力量严重透支，而不断衰退的经济却又正在引发内乱。
A campaign by regular government forces, once again working in concert with Arab militias, has moved westward from North Darfur to the strategic Jebel Marra massif. The assault on the Darfuri rebels there began in earnest in mid-January and has reportedly involved tanks, artillery and aerial bombing — the latter often inaccurate and resulting in heavy civilian casualties, the overwhelming majority of them African farmers and their families.
政府的正规军再次与阿拉伯民兵组织携手，发起了一场战役。这场战役从北达尔富尔一路向西，直至具有战略意义的杰贝尔马拉山地。对那里的达尔富尔反叛者的进攻，真正是从1月中旬开始的。据报道，战场上出现了坦克、大炮和空中轰炸。后者往往是不精确的，会造成严重的平民伤亡，其中绝大多数来自非洲农民家庭。
The United Nations estimates that in the first 10 days of the current assault, an additional 34,000 people were displaced, most of them women and children. This is probably an underestimate, but accurate figures are hard to come by, in part because Sudan has long excluded both journalists and relief workers from most of Jebel Marra.
联合国估计，在当前这场攻势的头十天里，又有3.4万人背井离乡，其中大部分为女性和儿童。这个数字可能有所低估，但目前难以获得准确的数据，这在一定程度上是因为苏丹长期不允许记者和救援人员进入杰贝勒马纳的大部分地区。
The trek to camps for displaced persons is long and arduous, and these refugees are vulnerable to assaults by pro-government forces. The camps themselves are threatened; they have been attacked with greater frequency and violence in recent years. Sudan’s second vice president, Hassabo Abdelrahman, recently declared that “2016 will see the end of displacement in Darfur” — a remark seen by many as a threat to dismantle the refugee camps.
前往难民安置营的旅途漫长而艰辛。难民们很容易受到亲政府力量的攻击。这些营地本身也面临着威胁。近年来，对营地的袭击的频率和暴力程度都超过从前。苏丹第二副总统哈萨博·阿卜杜勒拉赫曼(Hassabo Abdelrahman)最近宣称，“将在2016年结束达尔富尔民众背井离乡的问题。”很多人认为，这番言论是在威胁要废除难民营。
Darfur was widely recognized as the first genocide of the 21st century. In 2006, Samantha Power, now the United States ambassador to the United Nations, described it that way; in 2007, so did Susan E. Rice, now President Obama’s national security adviser.
达尔富尔地区的冲突被广泛视作21世纪第一起种族灭绝事件。2006年，现任美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)就是这样形容的；2007年，现任奥巴马国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)也这么说过。
Despite such recognition, the joint United Nations-African Union peacekeeping mission that deployed to Darfur in 2008 ultimately failed to stem the regime’s ethnic-cleansing program, which has included targeted rape. In the past eight years, more than two million civilians have been displaced, some for the third or fourth time. The suffering of the Darfuris has not diminished, but the concern of the international community apparently has.
尽管有这样的认识，2008年被派遣至达尔富尔的联合国及非洲联盟维和特派团最终没能阻止该政权的种族清洗计划，其中包括有针对性的强奸行为。在过去八年中，逾200万平民流离失所，有人被迫转移了三或四次。达尔富尔人的痛苦并没有消散，但国际社会的关注显然已经不再。
The head of the regime for more than 25 years, President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, has been charged by the International Criminal Court with multiple counts of genocide and crimes against humanity in Darfur. Yet it seems unlikely the court’s arrest warrant will ever be served. International economic sanctions against Sudan have been too patchy and partial to bring results.
逾25年来，国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)指控政权首领奥马尔·哈桑·巴希尔(Omar Hassan al-Bashir)在达尔富尔犯下种族灭绝罪、反人类罪等多项罪行。但该法庭的逮捕令似乎不太可能获得执行。国际社会对苏丹实行的经济制裁不够一致，过于分散，没有产生效果。
In the absence of effective deterrence, African-owned farmlands continue to be seized by Arab settlers. Crops are destroyed, and African farmers have been beaten, abducted and murdered by Arab militias and settlers.
由于缺乏有效震慑，非洲人所有的农田继续被阿拉伯定居者占领。农作物被毁，非洲农民遭到阿拉伯民兵组织及定居者的殴打、绑架和杀害。
Bad as things are, they will get worse if the Jebel Marra offensive is not halted. Stopping it will require the international community to act in a concerted way. The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, has been too passive on Darfur; he should bring up Khartoum’s new offensive at the Security Council.
情况已经很糟糕，如果杰贝尔马拉区域的攻击行动不停止，就会更糟。阻止这种情况的出现需要国际社会采取一致行动。联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)在达尔富尔问题上过于被动，他应该向安理会提及苏丹政府新开展的攻击行动。
To be sure, Russia and China may block action: Both have trade in arms with Sudan, and China has invested heavily there, particularly in the oil industry. But Mr. Ban could at least force a discussion in this forum, and highlight the Security Council resolutions that Khartoum has breached.
当然，俄罗斯和中国可能会阻碍行动：它们与苏丹开展武器贸易，而且中国在那里大举投资，特别是石油产业。但潘基文至少可以强行在安理会讨论相关事宜，强调苏丹政府违背安理会决议的事实。
The African Union, too, has been far too accommodating of the Sudanese regime: Its Peace and Security Council needs to speak out about the military action in Jebel Marra and enforce a continentwide travel ban on the officials responsible.
非洲联盟也过分迁就苏丹政权；其和平与安全理事会(Peace and Security Counci)必须就杰贝尔马拉区域的军事行动表明立场，在整个非洲大陆对负有责任的官员实施旅行禁令。
The Europeans have also been too tolerant of Sudan’s behavior in Darfur; several countries — including Sweden, France and Germany — have permitted business and commercial ties with Khartoum in spite of atrocities. The European Union should threaten economic and financial sanctions like those the United States has imposed. For companies that want access to the American financial system, these sanctions have proved powerful deterrents to assisting Khartoum. In 2014, the French banking giant BNP Paribas was fined nearly $9 billion for violating United States sanctions.
欧洲人对苏丹政权在达尔富尔的所作所为过度宽容；尽管苏丹政府实施暴行，包括瑞典、法国及德国在内的几个国家允许与苏丹保持商务关系。欧盟应该以实施与美国类似的经济及金融制裁相威胁。对于想要进入美国金融体系的公司来说，事实证明这些制裁极大地阻碍它们帮助苏丹政权。2014年，法国银行巨头巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)因为违反美国制裁，遭到大约90亿美元的罚款。
Sudan has run up at least $46 billion in external debt, much of it for military purchases. It can neither service nor repay this debt, which is held primarily by Paris Club creditors, a group that includes many European nations. At the very least, Europe should declare that discussions of debt relief are dead in the water if the Jebel Marra offensive continues. The United States should use its leverage as a Paris Club member to pressure the Europeans to take serious action on Darfur.
苏丹至少有460亿美元的外债，其中大部分用于军事采购。这些债务苏丹既无法付息，也无法偿还，其债权国主要是巴黎俱乐部(Paris Club)，该组织包括很多欧洲国家。欧洲至少应该说明，如果杰贝尔马拉地区的进攻行动持续下去，有关债务免除的讨论将会被搁置。美国应该借助作为巴黎俱乐部成员的影响力，迫使欧洲人在达尔富尔采取严厉举措。
Back in 2010, a State Department official spoke of “decoupling” Darfur from what Washington considered a key bilateral issue with Khartoum: counterterrorism intelligence. The proposal was for a lifting of sanctions in return for cooperation on information about jihadists. The administration should rule out any such bargain unless there is an immediate end to the offensive.
2010年，一名国务院官员提到要将达尔富尔与华盛顿所说的美国与苏丹之间的重要双边问题——反恐情报——“分离”。该计划旨在通过解除制裁换取有关圣战分子的情报合作。美国政府应该取消这种协议，除非达尔富尔立即停止攻势。
Khartoum has a keen ear for cant. The words Mr. Bashir and his allies hear from the international community must have real consequences, or they will have no power to prevent a new chapter of tragedy in Darfur.
苏丹政权很擅长分辨言论的虚实。巴希尔及其盟友从国际社会听到的言论必须带来真正的影响，否则将无力阻止达尔富尔掀开一个悲剧新篇章。