I didn’t always like bloody marys. I blame an early childhood incident in which we coated our collie with tomato juice after a run-in with a skunk. (The juice was supposed to make the stench go away.) But my mother, who considered the viscous vermilion swill a tonic for nearly any affliction, loved them. So I was more than happy to make them for her now and then: All it took was a good slug of Smirnoff (the only vodka we had in the house, and one I still like), a can of tomato juice (or, as my mother sometimes preferred, Clamato), a shake of Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce, a heaping teaspoon of grated horseradish, a few shakes of black pepper, a good stir with ice, a lemon wedge for garnish, and that was that.
我不总是喜欢血腥玛丽。这是因为童年的一件小事，我们家的柯利牧羊犬和臭鼬打了一架，我们就往它身上涂满了番茄汁（为了去除臭味）。但是我妈非常喜欢血腥玛丽，她认为痛饮一杯这黏糊糊的鲜红色液体几乎能缓解任何痛苦。所以我很乐意时不时地给她调制一杯：只需要一杯司木露伏特加（我们家只有这一种伏特加，而且我一直喜欢它），一罐番茄汁（我妈有时更喜欢克拉玛特番茄蛤蜊汁），一注Lea & Perrins牌伍斯特沙司，一大茶匙磨碎的山葵，一点黑胡椒，加冰好好搅拌，用一个柠檬角装饰，就这些。
The bloody mary’s origins remain shrouded in a black-pepper-and-celery-salt cloud. Some say it was born at the hands of a barman in Paris around 1921. Another theory — with a pleasurable dash of irony — is that it is an adaptation of an alcohol-free, Prohibition-era drink promoted by the tomato-juice industry. All that’s certain is that ever since, it has been subjected to oodles of sadistic ministrations. (Perhaps you’ve seen the photo of the bloody mary garnished with a small cheeseburger?) Some bartenders and civilians apply lip-numbing spice mixes to the rim of the glass. Thick strips of bacon stand at attention where a modest celery stick once casually leaned. Anything that can be pickled and impaled with a toothpick has had its moment.
血腥玛丽的起源仍模糊不清，有人说它与黑胡椒和芹籽盐有关。有人说它1921年左右出自巴黎的一位酒吧店主之手。另一种理论有一点快乐的讽刺意味，说它改造自禁酒时期番茄汁行业推广的一种不含酒精的饮品。可以确定的一点是，从那以后，它就任虐待成性的酒侍们摆布（你也许见过那张血腥玛丽上装饰着一个小奶酪汉堡的照片）。有些调酒师和普通人在玻璃杯的边缘涂上让嘴唇发麻的混合香辛料。以前偶尔会在杯子里斜倚一根朴素的芹菜杆，现在厚厚的培根块站在那里。任何可以被腌制、能用牙签穿刺的东西都有了出头之日。
But like many classic cocktails, a bloody mary depends most heavily on a harmonious balance of flavors. And I think this is a special case in which freshest does not necessarily mean best. Does fresh tomato juice make a bloody mary taste fresher? Sure, but juice from a can could spare you from drinking down what tastes like a glass of spiked salsa. (Where horseradish is concerned, though, only the freshly grated stuff will do.)
但是像很多经典鸡尾酒一样，血腥玛丽最重要的是味道的和谐与平衡。我觉得血腥玛丽有一点比较特殊，最新鲜的不一定是最好的。新鲜的番茄汁是否会让它尝起来更新鲜？当然，但是罐装番茄汁不会让你觉得你喝下的像一杯掺了烈酒的洋葱番茄辣酱（不过考虑到其中有山葵，只有现磨的东西才行）。
Lately, many bars have been offering a make-your-own version: They mix the basic drink; you choose the garnishes. This may be gimmicky, sure, but most of us, given the choice, wouldn’t mind having some say in how we top off our bloodys. The key is to keep the drink itself straightforward — an overabundance of hot sauce or Worcestershire or celery salt ruins it — so that the garnishes can shine a little. Decades after making bloody marys for my mother, I found that the garnishes helped me come around to how bracing and fortifying the drink can be. I’ll take a poached shrimp, a celery stick, a wedge of lemon and a big, frilly fennel frond. You can have the slider.
最近，很多酒吧可以让你选择自己调制血腥玛丽：他们把基本的酒水调好，你自己选饰菜。这当然是个巧妙的主意，但是有了这个选择，我们大多数人不会介意自己决定如何给自己的血腥玛丽收尾。关键是得让酒本身简单直接——加入过多的辣酱、伍斯特沙司或者芹籽盐会毁了它——这样饰菜才能稍微亮眼。在给我妈做了几十年血腥玛丽之后，我发现饰菜让我意识到这种饮品可以这样令人振奋。我会加一个水煮虾，一根芹菜杆，一个柠檬角，一个多褶皱的大茴香叶。你还可以用滑竿把它们串起来。
While this recipe is adapted from my years as a lady who brunched, the bloody mary should not be confined to the early afternoon. I honor the quietly rebellious sort who bellies up to a bar, alone, well after the sun has set and orders a bloody mary. Because why not have one at midnight too?
多年来我经常是早午餐一起吃的，鉴于这个调制方法是我改造的，我认为它不应该只限于在午后喝。我敬佩那些在不声不响中叛逆的人，他们敢于在太阳下山后独自一人径直走向酒吧点一杯血腥玛丽。为什么不能在午夜也来一杯呢？
Recipe: Lu’s Bloody Mary
食谱：卢的血腥玛丽
TOTAL TIME
总计用时：
5 minutes
5分钟
INGREDIENTS
配料：
Lemon wedge
柠檬角
Lime wedge
酸橙角
4 oz. tomato juice
4盎司番茄汁
2 dashes Tabasco
2注塔巴斯科辣酱油
2 dashes Worcestershire sauce
2注伍斯特沙司
Pinch of sea salt
少量海盐
Pinch of celery salt
少量芹籽盐
Pinch of coarsely ground pepper (pepper too finely ground will bring more heat and less flavor)
少量粗磨胡椒（胡椒磨得太细会更辣，而不会更香）
¼ teaspoon peeled and freshly shredded horseradish (avoid using prepared horseradish from a jar)
1/4茶匙去皮、切碎的山葵（不要使用罐装的提前切好的山葵）
2 oz. vodka (not flavored)
2盎司伏特加（不要加香料）
GARNISH
饰菜：
Slice of seedless cucumber
无籽黄瓜片
Pitted green olive
去核的绿橄榄
Lemon wedge
柠檬角
Black pepper
黑胡椒
PREPARATION
调制方法：
1. Squeeze lemon and lime wedges into a shaker. Add all other ingredients except vodka, and stir. Taste the mix, and adjust the seasoning if needed. Put the mix in the fridge, and let it sit overnight.
1. 把柠檬角和酸橙角的汁液挤入调酒器中。除了伏特加，把其他配料全放进去搅拌。品尝，适当调味。把这个混合物放入冰箱，放一晚上。
2. Pour vodka into the shaker. Add ice cubes, and shake.
2. 把伏特加倒入调酒器中。加入冰块，搅拌。
3. Fill an 8-ounce glass about halfway with ice, and strain the shaker contents over it.
3. 在8盎司的玻璃杯中倒一半冰，把调酒器中的东西过滤后倒进来。
4. For garnish, I prefer a slice of seedless cucumber, also known as a hothouse or English cucumber, rather than celery. (This isn’t a deal breaker, though.) Cut a ½-inch-thick slice of cucumber on the bias. Cut a slit in the slice, and place on the rim of the glass. Spear the pitted green olive with a toothpick, and stick it through the rind of the lemon wedge. Place the wedge on the rim of the glass. Crack a little freshly ground pepper on top.
4. 至于饰菜，我更喜欢无籽黄瓜片——也称为温室黄瓜或英国黄瓜——而不是芹菜（不过不是必须得这样）。斜着切一片1/2英尺厚的黄瓜片。在黄瓜片上切一个小口，卡在玻璃杯沿上。用牙签穿住去核的绿橄榄，固定在柠檬角的皮上。把柠檬角卡在玻璃杯沿上。撒上一点儿现磨的胡椒。
YIELD
份量：
1 drink.
1人份。