THE solution to one of America’s most vexing problems — our soaring rates of obesity and diet-related diseases — may have its roots in early childhood, and even in utero.
肥胖症以及与饮食有关的疾病发病率居高不下，这是美国人最苦恼的问题之一，而这个问题的解决方法，可能要追溯到幼儿甚至胎儿时期。
Researchers at the Monell Chemical Senses Center, a nonprofit research organization in Philadelphia, have found that babies born to mothers who eat a diverse and varied diet while pregnant and breast-feeding are more open to a wide range of flavors. They’ve also found that babies who follow that diet after weaning carry those preferences into childhood and adulthood. Researchers believe that the taste preferences that develop at crucial periods in infancy have lasting effects for life. In fact, changing food preferences beyond toddlerhood appears to be extremely difficult.
费城的非营利研究机构莫奈尔化学感官中心(Monell Chemical Senses Center)的研究人员发现，如果母亲在怀孕及哺乳期间保持丰富多样的饮食结构，孩子就更容易接受范围较广的食物种类。他们还发现，在断奶后继续保持这种饮食习惯的孩子，会把这些偏好带入童年和成年。研究人员认为，在婴儿时期的关键时段形成的口味偏好，其影响将持续一生。事实上，在两三岁之后，要改变饮食习惯将十分困难。
“What’s really interesting about children is, the preferences they form during the first years of life actually predict what they’ll eat later,” said Julie Mennella, a biopsychologist and researcher at the Monell Center. “Dietary patterns track from early to later childhood but once they are formed, once they get older, it’s really difficult to change — witness how hard it is to change the adult. You can, but it’s just harder. Where you start, is where you end up.”
莫奈尔中心的生物心理学家朱莉·门内拉(Julie Mennella)说，“儿童有一点非常有意思，他们在人生最初几年形成的喜好决定了他们未来选择吃什么。饮食习惯可以追溯到幼儿时期到童年后期，但是一旦形成，一旦经过了一段时间，真的很难改掉——只需要看看改变成人的习惯是多么难就知道了。你可以改变，但就是要难得多。起点决定了你的终点。”
This may have profound implications for the future health of Americans. With some 70 percent of the United States population now overweight or obese and chronic diseases skyrocketing, many parents who are eating a diet high in processed, refined foods are feeding their babies as they feed themselves, and could be setting their children up for a lifetime of preferences for a narrow range of flavors.
这个发现可能会对美国人的未来健康产生深远影响。由于目前有大约70%的美国人口超重或肥胖，慢性疾病的患者人数飙升，许多父母的饮食中包含大量经过加工和精炼的食品，在吃这些食物的同时，他们也会给他们的婴儿们吃这些东西，这可能会让他们的孩子一生都局限在对少数食物的喜好中。
The Monell researchers have identified several sensitive periods for taste preference development. One is before three and a half months of age, which makes what the mother eats while pregnant and breast-feeding so important. “It’s our fundamental belief that during evolution, we as humans are exposed to flavors both in utero and via mother’s milk that are signals of things that will be in our diets as we grow up and learn about what flavors are acceptable based on those experiences,” said Gary Beauchamp, the director of the Monell Center. “Infants exposed to a variety of flavors in infancy are more willing to accept a variety of flavors, including flavors that are associated with various vegetables and so forth and that might lead to a more healthy eating style later on.”
莫奈尔的研究人员已经找出了几个食物偏好形成的敏感时期。一个是在婴儿三个半月之前，这就意味着，母亲在怀孕和哺乳期间吃什么尤为重要。莫奈尔中心的主任加里·比彻姆(Gary Beauchamp)说，“我们的基本观点是，在发育的过程中，我们在子宫内和通过母乳，可以接触到各种味道，这些味道就成为了一些信号，预示着我们未来会吃那些东西，我们根据这些经历来判断哪些味道是可以接受的。在婴儿时期接触了种类丰富的味道，今后会更愿意接受种类丰富的食物，包括各种蔬菜等，他们未来的饮食习惯可能会更健康。”
There is another reason these exposures have a lifelong impact, he said: “This early exposure leads to an imprinting-like phenomenon such that those flavors are not only preferred but they take on an emotional attachment.”
在子宫内和母乳中接触这些味道会对一生产生影响，还有一个根据可以证明这一点。比彻姆说，“这种早期的接触会产生某种印记式的现象，以至于婴儿不仅偏好这些味道，还会对其产生情感的依赖。”
This puts babies fed formula at a disadvantage because the flavors in packaged formula never change. But according to Ms. Mennella, the opportunity to expose those babies to a range of flavors is not lost. “Just because you’re formula-fed, it’s not hopeless,” she said. “Babies learn through repeated exposure, so the more varied the diet, the more likely they’ll be to accept a novel food.”
这就让婴儿配方奶失去了一些吸引力，因为包装配方奶的味道从来不变。但门内拉说，要让这些婴儿接触多种味道，还是有机会的。她说，“虽然你吃的是配方奶，这并不意味着毫无希望。婴儿是通过反复尝试来学习的，所以饮食越多样，他们越有可能接受新奇的食物。”
Another recent study conducted at the FoodPlus research center at the University of Adelaide in South Australia found that exposure to a maternal junk food diet (defined in the study as any food that was energy dense, highly palatable and had a high fat content) results in children with a preference for these same foods. In a rodent model, the study found that being exposed to too much junk food in utero and through breast milk leads offspring to develop a reward pathway in the brain that is less sensitive than normal. Mothers who were fed foods like Froot Loops, Cheetos and Nutella during pregnancy had offspring that showed increased expression of the gene for an opioid receptor, which resulted in a desensitization to sweet and fatty foods. “The best way to think about how having a desensitized reward pathway would affect you is to use the analogy of somebody who is addicted to drugs,” Jessica R. Gugusheff, a Ph.D. candidate at FoodPlus and the lead author of the study, wrote in an email. “When someone is addicted to drugs they become less sensitive to the effects of that drug, so they have to increase the dose to get the same high,” she wrote. “In a similar way, by having a desensitized reward pathway, offspring exposed to junk food before birth have to eat more junk food to get the same good feelings.”
澳大利亚南部阿德莱德大学(University of Adelaide)的FoodPlus研究中心最近的另一项研究发现，如果母亲怀孕时喜欢吃垃圾食品（在研究中的定义是高能量、非常可口，以及高脂肪），那么儿童也会喜欢吃同样的食物。研究通过一个啮齿类动物模型发现，母亲在怀孕和哺乳期间吃太多垃圾食品，会导致后代大脑中形成一个奖赏回路，其敏感度低于正常水平。在怀孕期间吃水果圈(Froot Loops)、奇多(Cheetos)和能多益(Nutella)的母亲，后代的一个阿片受体的基因表达增强，进而导致对甜的、高脂的食物变得麻木。FoodPlus的博士研究生、研究的主要作者杰西卡·R·古古西弗(Jessica R. Gugusheff)在一封邮件中写道，要理解不敏感的奖赏回路会产生怎样的影响，吸毒成瘾的人就是最好的同类例子。她写道，“当有人吸毒上瘾时，他们对毒品的影响就不那么敏感，所以他们为了达到同样的兴奋程度需要增加剂量。同样，一旦有了不敏感的奖赏回路，在出生前接触了垃圾食品的儿童要吃更多垃圾食品才能获得同样的满足感。”
Ms. Mennella at Monell has also done research on reward pathways for sweetness and has found that sweet flavors have an analgesic effect on babies and children such that babies will cry less and children will leave their hand in a cold water bath for longer periods with sweet flavors in their mouths. Ms. Mennella has also found that in obese children, while the level of sweet they prefer is the same as that of normal-weight children, sweet flavors are not as effective as an analgesic. “I hypothesized maybe it’s because of some disruption in the opioid system, so maybe they need more sweet to get the same effect,” she said.
莫奈尔的门内拉也进行了关于奖赏回路的研究，发现甜食对幼儿和儿童有止痛效果，比如，在吃甜的东西时，婴儿会不那么爱哭，在凉水中洗手能坚持更长时间。门内拉还发现，对于肥胖的儿童来说，尽管他们偏爱的甜度和正常儿童相同，甜味止痛的效果却没那么明显。她说，“我猜想，这可能是因为阿片系统出现了某种紊乱，他们需要更多甜食才能达到同样的效果。”
These research studies call into question the ethics of marketing poor-quality foods to children as well as the marketing of infant formula.
这些研究让质量差的儿童食品以及婴儿配方食品的营销从道义上遭到了质疑。
In the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about 15 percent of mothers breast-feed exclusively for six months, with rates significantly lower for African-American mothers. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that women breast-feed exclusively for at least six months and then continue some breast-feeding as they introduce solid foods for the next six months. The World Health Organization recommends breast-feeding up to 2 years of age or beyond.
在美国，根据美国疾病预防和控制中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）的资料，大约15%的母亲会让宝宝接受六个月的完全母乳喂养，非裔美国母亲的这一比例要低得多。美国儿科医生学会(American Academy of Pediatrics)建议，母亲们应该至少在头六个月完全用母乳喂养自己的孩子，接下来的六个月，在加入固体食物的同时，继续喂母乳。世界卫生组织建议母乳喂养到两岁甚至更大。
But infant formula is a booming billion-dollar industry with three companies controlling almost 98 percent of the market: Mead Johnson, maker of Enfamil, Abbott, manufacturer of Similac, and Nestlé (now Gerber), maker of Good Start.
不过，婴儿配方奶粉是一个蓬勃发展、规模达数十亿美元的产业，目前有三家公司控制着98%的市场：美赞臣公司(Mead Johnson)，产品为 Enfamil，雅培(Abbott)，产品为Similac，雀巢（现在的嘉宝[Gerber]），产品为Good Start。
Functional foods, or foods that allegedly deliver nutritional benefit beyond what is available in natural foods, are a food industry creation to convince consumers that their products are superior to, or can replace, natural, whole foods. Globally, infant formula is the fastest growing functional food; the market is on track to grow by nearly $5 billion in 2013 alone.
功能性食品，也就是据称比天然食品拥有更多营养物质的食品，是食品行业的发明，目的是让消费者相信，他们的产品优于或是可以取代天然食品。从全球来看，婴儿配方食品是增长最快的功能性食品；单是在2013年，这一市场的增幅就可能达到近50亿美元（305亿元人民币）。
But formula is only part of the problem since breast-fed babies of mothers eating too many refined and processed foods are also at risk. Claims by the food industry that personal responsibility, exercising more, and eating less are the solutions to obesity and diet-related disease are turned on their head with these studies. If babies are developing food preferences in utero and before 2 or 3 years of age through no fault of their own, how can we then blame them when they become obese children and adults?
然而，配方奶粉只是问题之一，由于母乳喂养的妈妈们食用了太多经过加工的精细食品，婴儿们的健康同样会面临风险。食品行业称，对自己负责、多锻炼、控制食量，是解决肥胖以及与饮食有关疾病的办法，但这些研究则彻底否定了这样的说法。如果婴儿们在子宫里和在两三岁前就在完全不受自己控制的情况下形成了对食物的喜好，当他们变成小胖子或肥胖的成年人时，我们又怎么能责怪他们？
If we hope to reverse the tide on obesity and diet-related disease in America, regulating processed food products and infant formula, and creating clear warning labels to deter parents from feeding their children potentially harmful foods may be our best shot. Let’s make sure future generations have the best chance to become healthy adults.
如果我们希望逆转美国肥胖和与饮食有关疾病的发展趋势，最好的办法是，监管加工食品和婴儿配方奶粉，制作清晰的警示标签，警告父母不要让他们的孩子吃可能有害的食品。让我们共同努力，确保下一代最有希望成为健康的成年人。