COPENHAGEN — A FEW years ago, a young woman I met in a small fishing village in central Ghana told me that, after her husband left to try to get to Italy, she stepped out into the courtyard of their home and saw his ghost at the gate.
哥本哈根——几年前，我在加纳中部一个小渔村遇到一位年轻女子。她告诉我，她丈夫离家去往意大利以后，她走到家中的院子里，看见他的魂灵站在门口。
“I nearly passed out,” she said. “I had goose bumps all over my body.”
“我几乎晕了过去，”她说道，“我起了一身鸡皮疙瘩。”
The day after his apparition appeared, she said, confirmation arrived from Libya that he had perished in the Mediterranean. “The whole thing really devastated me,” the woman told me, as I researched a book on undocumented African migration to Europe. “We were only at the start of our lives.”
她说，在他魂灵出现的第二天，从利比亚传来消息，证实他葬身地中海。“整件事让我身心交瘁，”这位女子告诉我，“我们的人生才刚刚开始啊。”我当时正在做研究，准备写一本关于非洲人偷渡欧洲的书。
Last week it happened again off Sicily. More than 100 refugees from East Africa, mainly Eritrea and Somalia, are believed to have drowned off the coast of the Italian island of Lampedusa. The difference with this latest catastrophe was not only in the magnitude of human loss, but in the visibility and nearness of death.
上周，类似事件在西西里附近海域再次发生。有消息说，100多名来自东非，主要为厄立特里亚和索马里的难民在意大利兰佩杜萨岛附近溺亡。这最近一次惨剧的不同之处不仅在于死亡人数之多，还在于这些死亡的可见性，离我们近在咫尺。
This time, scores of bodies have been recovered from the Mediterranean. But usually, the bodies of migrants lost at sea vanish. Their screams do not reach us Europeans from the sea, nor from the detention centers our governments have paid North African governments to construct, in an effort to stem the human tide from south of the Sahara.
这一次，人们从地中海打捞起了几十具尸体。但通常情况下，丧生大海的移民，尸体往往就消失了。他们从海上、从拘留中心发出的尖声呼救无法传到我们欧洲人的耳朵里。这些拘留中心是我们的政府投资，由北部非洲政府建造的，目的是为了阻止撒哈拉以南国家向欧洲的移民潮。
We Europeans can honor the dead only by engaging in a new discussion about what direction the Continent should take on refugees. Instead, our governments have dithered, unable to come up with a common migration and refugee policy. Countries like Italy and Spain complain — with some justification — that they cannot be a gateway for Europe without cooperation and support from their neighbors, but the economic problems afflicting countries from France to Greece mean that migrants have become unwelcome scapegoats. The price of this transnational bickering and selfishness has been a massacre by negligence, right at Europe’s doorstep.
我们欧洲人只有通过进行新的讨论，探讨欧洲大陆难民政策的走向，方可告慰死者。然而，我们的政府却犹豫不决，无法提出一个关于移民与难民的共同政策。意大利和西班牙等国抱怨（有一定的道理），没有邻国的合作与支持，他们无法担当欧洲的门户。但受经济问题的困扰，从法国到希腊，移民已成了不受欢迎的替罪羊。各国争吵不休，自私自利，代价就是大批生命因此被葬送，而且就在欧洲的大门口。
Eritrea and Somalia have been ravaged by conflict and hunger. Countries like Italy routinely send rescue boats into the Mediterranean to pick up migrants stranded off the coast, but this is only a belated Band-Aid. Europe’s professed commitment to human rights, including, in principle, a duty to give refuge to those escaping persecution and misery, has not been matched by meaningful policies.
厄立特里亚和索马里一直饱受战乱和食物短缺的摧残。意大利等国会定期派出救援船只进入地中海营救困在近海的移民，但这往往是杯水车薪，为时太晚。欧洲自称捍卫人权，从原则上来说，这也包括为逃离迫害和苦难的人们提供避难，然而这样的口号却没有有力的政策与之相配合。
After the latest disaster, policy makers promised, predictably, to crack down on the smugglers who lured Africans onto their unseaworthy boats. But as appalling as human trafficking is, the deaths cannot be explained so easily. Africans, like desperate migrants everywhere, watch TV and read newspapers. They know the risks. The tragedy is that they put their lives on the line because they feel they have no other choice.
此次灾难之后，政策制定者们不出所料地做出承诺，对诱骗非洲人登上不适航船只的人口贩子进行打击。贩运人口固然骇人听闻，但死因却没那么简单。非洲人民和其他各处绝望的移民一样，也看电视、读报纸。他们深知其中风险。而悲剧就在于，他们不惜冒着死亡的危险，是因为感到自己别无选择。
For all of Europe’s economic woes, it is well within the capacity of the European Union to resettle these migrants. The real barrier is the devaluation of African lives. For this there is no quick fix. A unified, humane policy on refugees and asylum seekers is needed. So is a long-term commitment to social and economic transformation in sub-Saharan Africa, to which Europeans owe a moral debt.
尽管欧洲经济不景气，但欧盟仍有余力安置这些移民。真正的障碍在于对非洲人命价值的贬低。而针对这个问题，没有迅速的解决办法，因而需要制定一个统一的、人道的难民及避难政策。同时也需要对撒哈拉以南非洲地区的社会及经济转型做出长期的投入，欧洲人欠他们道义上的债务。
Later this year, officials in Brussels are expected to unveil a new border-surveillance system for the European Union. Like the fence between the United States and Mexico, this system, known as Eurosur, is a dream of security hard-liners and the global weapons industry. Will the result will be “Fortress Europe” — a sci-fi border zone patrolled by drones?
布鲁塞尔的官员们有望在今年晚些时候，推出新的欧盟边界监视系统。和美国、墨西哥边境围栏一样，这套Eurosur系统的投入，对安全强硬派及全球武器制造业来说，可谓美梦成真。但是否就此能建成一个科幻般的、靠无人机巡逻边境的“欧洲堡垒”呢？
Spending billions of euros to erect barriers, at sea or on land, will not stop human migration. Desperate people will always resort to desperate measures.
耗资数十亿去建立壁垒，无论是在海上还是在陆地上，都无法阻止人类迁移。绝望的人们终会采取孤注一掷的手段。
What is needed, and must be demanded of our political leaders in Europe, is a show of hands — a rededication to the humanitarian values for which free Europe has been admired around the world in the decades since World War II.
这里所需要的，也是必须要求我们欧洲的政治领导人做到的，就是进行举手表决——再次致力于人道主义的价值观，这也是一个自由欧洲自二战以来几十年间广受世界赞誉的价值观。
Instead, as the bodies disappear outside public scrutiny, the moral horizon has been vanishing. There is a growing acceptance that a watery graveyard is a necessary evil for the maintenance of a free and prosperous Europe. This is a disgrace: the suffering in the chilly waters off Sicily calls into question the moral integrity of the entire border system (to the extent it can be called one).
然而，随着尸体从公众的视野消失，道义的一线曙光也在消失。水下的墓地渐渐被视为保障一个自由、繁荣欧洲的必需之恶。这是个耻辱：这些移民在西西里附近海域冰冷海水中遭受的苦难让我们对于整个边境系统的道义操守产生了怀疑（其实这根本不能称为一个完整的系统）。
The young widow in Ghana was left to rear a son. When I met her, she was selling toffee and oranges from a roadside table. She went to church every night. She told me she still thought of and prayed for her husband.
加纳的年轻寡妇只能独自养活儿子。我遇到她时，她正在路边小桌旁售卖太妃糖和橙子。她每天晚上都去教堂。她告诉我她还是总会想到她的丈夫，并为他祷告。
“He was a humble and hardworking guy, a quiet type,” she said. “Things weren’t all that bad for him. In Libya he earned the respect of his colleagues because of his humility and meekness. I really lost a good person in my life.”
“他是个谦虚而勤奋的人，很安静的那种，”她说道，“他生前的境遇并不是那么糟。在利比亚，他的谦逊和温顺赢得了同事们的尊敬。我真的失去了生命中的一个好人。”