CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — LAST spring, I had the occasion to spend a day with the actor and comedian Aziz Ansari discussing our mutual interest in the psychology of texting. As we walked through Los Angeles, people approached him every few minutes not to ask for an autograph, but to demand a photograph. Mr. Ansari is gracious to his fans. He explained that instead of a photograph, he would offer a conversation. He inquired about their taste in music, what they liked about his performances, his stand-up, his sitcom “Parks and Recreation.” His fans were mollified but they were rarely happy. They had to walk away with nothing on their phones.
马萨诸塞州坎布里奇——今年春天，我有一次和演员、笑星阿齐兹·安萨里(Aziz Ansari)共处了一天，讨论我们都感兴趣的短信心理学问题。当我们在洛杉矶街头漫步时，每隔几分钟就有人向他走来，不是找他索要签名，而是请求跟他合影。安萨里对粉丝们很亲切。他表示自己不合影，但是可以跟他们聊一会儿。他询问他们喜欢听什么音乐，以及他们对他的表演、他的单人喜剧，以及他的情景喜剧《公园与游憩》(Parks and Recreation)的看法。粉丝们没有不满，但也说不上高兴。没能在手机里留下合影，他们只能空手离去。
I’ve been studying people and mobile technology for more than 15 years. Until recently, it was the sharing that seemed most important. People didn’t seem to feel like themselves unless they shared a thought or feeling, even before it was clear in their mind. The new sensibility played on the Cartesian with a twist: “I share, therefore I am.”
我研究人与移动技术的关系已经超过15年了。直到不久之前，“分享”似乎都是最重要的事情。如果不分享一下想法和感受，人们就会觉得不自在，即使那些想法和感受在自己的头脑里都还不清晰。把笛卡尔的名言改动一下，或者可以描述这种新的感受：“我分享，故我在”。
These days, we still want to share, but now our first focus is to have, to possess, a photograph of our experience.
而当下，我们仍然喜欢分享，但现在我们最看重的却是获得、拥有一张记录了自己体验的照片。
I interview people about their selfies. It’s how they keep track of their lives. Mr. Ansari offered a conversation, but people wanted documentation. We interrupt conversations for documentation all the time.
对于自拍这件事，我采访了一些人。自拍是他们记录自己生活的手段。安萨里与粉丝们进行了交谈，可是他们想要的却是记录的文件。我们总是为了记录而打断交谈。
A selfie, like any photograph, interrupts experience to mark the moment. In this, it shares something with all the other ways we break up our day, when we text during class, in meetings, at the theater, at dinners with friends. And yes, at funerals, but also more regularly at church and synagogue services. We text when we are in bed with our partners and spouses. We watch our political representatives text during sessions.
与其他照片一样，自拍照也为了记录那个时刻而打断了体验。从这个方面来看，自拍类似于我们中断日常活动的其他行为，类似于我们在课堂上、在开会时、在剧院里、在与朋友共进晚餐的过程中发短信。是的，还有葬礼上，但更经常的是在教堂和犹太会堂的仪式上发短信。在与伴侣和配偶一起在床上时，我们也会发短信。我们还会看到代表我们的政治人物在开会的时候发短信。
Technology doesn’t just do things for us. It does things to us, changing not just what we do but who we are. The selfie makes us accustomed to putting ourselves and those around us “on pause” in order to document our lives. It is an extension of how we have learned to put our conversations “on pause” when we send or receive a text, an image, an email, a call. When you get accustomed to a life of stops and starts, you get less accustomed to reflecting on where you are and what you are thinking.
科技不仅仅为我们做了一些事情，也对我们做了一些事情，它不仅改变了我们做的事情，而且也改变了我们本身。自拍让我们习惯于让自己和身边的人“暂停”片刻，以便记录下我们的生活。我们已经学会了在发出或收到短信、图片、电子邮件、电话时，把交谈“暂停”片刻，自拍时的“暂停”是这种做法的延伸。当你习惯了这种走走停停的生活，你就不再那么习惯于反思自己在哪里，在想什么了。
We don’t experience interruptions as disruptions anymore. But they make it hard to settle into serious conversations with ourselves and with other people because emotionally, we keep ourselves available to be taken away from everything. I talk to young people about etiquette when they go out to dinner, and they explain to me that when in a group of, say, seven, they make sure that at least three people are “heads up” in the “talking” conversation at any one time. Only then do they feel permission to text. But it doesn’t have to be the same three people. In these settings, the most commonly heard phrase is “Wait, what?” as one person and then another drops back into the conversation and tries to catch up. All of this has become the new normal.
我们不再觉得中断是一种扰乱了。但它让我们难于和自己或别人展开严肃的交谈，因为在情绪上，我们让自己保持在一种随时可以抽离一切东西的状态。我和一些年轻人谈到他们外出聚餐时的礼仪，他们对我解释说，比如有七个人一起聚会时，他们要确保在任何时刻至少要有三个人在“抬着头”，进行“说话的那种”交谈。只有在这时，他们才觉得自己可以去发短信。但讲话的不必总是同样的三个人。在这种场景里，最常听到的一句话就是“等等，在说什么？”每当有人回到谈话中，并试图跟上话题时，就会说这句话。这已经成为了新的常态。
We have every reason to believe that President Obama revered Nelson Mandela and thought deeply about his relationship with what Mandela stood for. But when he took a selfie at Mandela’s memorial service last Tuesday, he showed us how he, too, lives in our culture of documentation. It is easy to understand how he, like most of us, did not allow himself an uninterrupted time of reverie.
我们有充分的理由相信，奥巴马总统尊敬纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)，并且深入地思考过自己与曼德拉主张的理念之间存在的联系。但是上周二，当他在曼德拉的悼念仪式上自拍时，他向我们展示了他也生活在我们的“记录文化”中。跟我们大多数人一样，他也没有给自己留出一段不被打断的沉思时间，这一点很容易理解。
These days, when people are alone, or feel a moment of boredom, they tend to reach for a device. In a movie theater, at a stop sign, at the checkout line at a supermarket and, yes, at a memorial service, reaching for a device becomes so natural that we start to forget that there is a reason, a good reason, to sit still with our thoughts: It does honor to what we are thinking about. It does honor to ourselves. 
现如今，当人们独处时，或者觉得有些无聊时，手往往就会伸向一台电子设备。在电影院、在停车标志下、在超市排队结帐时，是的，还有追悼仪式上，伸手去拿电子设备变得如此自然，以至于我们逐渐忘记了静静沉思是有理由的，一个很好的理由：这是对我们思考的事情的尊重。这是对我们自己的尊重。
It is not too late to reclaim our composure. I see the most hope in young people who have grown up with this technology and begin to see its cost. They respond when adults provide them with sacred spaces (the kitchen, the family room, the car) as device-free zones to reclaim conversation and self-reflection.
现在还不算太晚，我们还可以重新找回沉着和从容。在技术的陪伴下长大的一些年轻人，已经开始觉察到它的代价，我在他们身上看到了最大的希望。当大人们为了找回交谈和自我反思的感受，给他们提供神圣的空间（厨房、起居室、汽车），在其中禁止使用电子设备时，他们做出了积极的回应。
A 14-year-old girl tells me how she gets her device-smitten father to engage with her during dinner: “Dad, stop Googling. I don’t care about the right answer. I want to talk to you.” A 14-year-old boy reflects: “Don’t people know that sometimes you can just look out the window of a car and see the world go by and it is wonderful. You can think. People don’t know that.” The selfie, like all technology, causes us to reflect on our human values. This is a good thing because it challenges us to figure out what they really are. 
一个14岁的女孩对我讲述了，她是怎么做到在晚餐时让沉迷于电子设备的父亲跟她交谈的：“爸爸，不要再在谷歌上搜索了。我不关心正确的答案是什么，我想和你讲讲话。”一个14岁的男孩说：“人们居然不知道有时候可以看看车窗外面，看看他们经过的地方，那种感觉很奇妙。你可以思考事情。人们不知道这一点。”像所有的技术一样，自拍也让我们反思自己作为人的价值。这是一件好事，因为它向我们发出挑战，要我们弄清它们的本质。