WASHINGTON — In 1942, a lieutenant paymaster in Japan’s Imperial Navy named Yasuhiro Nakasone was stationed at Balikpapan on the island of Borneo, assigned to oversee the construction of an airfield. But he found that sexual misconduct, gambling and fighting were so prevalent among his men that the work was stalled.
华盛顿——1942年，大日本帝国海军军需中尉中曾根康弘(Yasuhiro Nakasone)驻扎在婆罗洲岛的巴厘巴板，负责监督一座机场的施工建设。但他发现，不当性行为、赌博和斗殴在自己的手下中泛滥成风，导致了施工任务的拖延。
Lieutenant Nakasone’s solution was to organize a military brothel, or “comfort station.” The young officer’s success in procuring four Indonesian women “mitigated the mood” of his troops so well that he was commended in a naval report.
中曾根康弘的解决方案是设立一座军事妓院，即“慰安所”。这位年轻军官弄来四名印度尼西亚妇女，用来给他的部队“缓解心情”。此举大获成功，连一份海军报告都对他进行了嘉许。
Lieutenant Nakasone’s decision to provide comfort women to his troops was replicated by thousands of Imperial Japanese Army and Navy officers across the Indo-Pacific both before and during World War II, as a matter of policy. From Nauru to Vietnam, from Burma to Timor, women were treated as the first reward of conquest.
中曾根康弘决定给自己的部队提供慰安妇的做法，在二战之前和期间，作为一种政策，被印度洋-太平洋地区数以千计的日本陆军和海军军官效仿。从瑙鲁到越南，从缅甸到帝汶，他们把女性当成了第一批战利品。
We know of Lieutenant Nakasone’s role in setting up a comfort station thanks to his 1978 memoir, “Commander of 3,000 Men at Age 23.” At that time, such accounts were relatively commonplace and uncontroversial — and no obstacle to a political career. From 1982 to 1987, Mr. Nakasone was the prime minister of Japan.
中曾根康弘1978年撰写了回忆录《23岁统领3000人的司令官》(Commander of 3,000 Men at Age 23)，而我们就是从这本书中得知了他在开设慰安所一事上的作用。当时这样的叙述还比较常见，并不存在争议——完全不会妨碍一个人的政治生涯。中曾根康弘在1982年到1987年间担任了日本首相。
Today, however, the Japanese military’s involvement in comfort stations is bitterly contested. The government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is engaged in an all-out effort to portray the historical record as a tissue of lies designed to discredit the nation. Mr. Abe’s administration denies that imperial Japan ran a system of human trafficking and coerced prostitution, implying that comfort women were simply camp-following prostitutes.
但是，日本军方设立慰安所一事如今成为了一个备受争议的问题。首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)领导的日本政府卷入了竭力把这段历史描绘成旨在抹黑日本的谎言的活动中。安倍政府否认日本帝国有组织地贩卖人口和强迫卖淫，暗示慰安妇仅仅是自愿的随军妓女。
The latest move came at the end of October when, with no intended irony, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party appointed Mr. Nakasone’s own son, former Foreign Minister Hirofumi Nakasone, to chair a commission established to “consider concrete measures to restore Japan’s honor with regard to the comfort women issue.”
最新举动发生在今年10月底：执政的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)任命中曾根康弘的儿子、前外务大臣中曾根弘文(Hirofumi Nakasone)主持一个委员会，而该委员会的任务就是“考虑采取具体措施，以恢复日本在慰安妇问题方面的名誉”，相当讽刺。
The official narrative in Japan is fast becoming detached from reality, as it seeks to cast the Japanese people — rather than the comfort women of the Asia-Pacific theater — as the victims of this story. The Abe administration sees this historical revision as integral to restoring Japan’s imperial wartime honor and modern-day national pride. But the broader effect of the campaign has been to cause Japan to back away from international efforts against human rights abuses and to weaken its desire to be seen as a responsible partner in prosecuting possible war crimes.
日本的官方叙事正在迅速脱离现实，它把日本人——而不是亚太战场的慰安妇——描述为其中的受害者。安倍政府认为，这样修正历史问题，对于恢复日本帝国战时的名誉和近现代民族自豪感而言，是一个不可或缺的组成部分。然而，这些做法具有更广泛的影响，已导致日本回避反对践踏人权的国际行动，不利于日本在起诉战争罪行嫌疑人时被视为一个负责任的合作伙伴的愿望。
A key objective of Mr. Abe’s government has been to dilute the 1993 Kono Statement, named for Japan’s chief cabinet secretary at the time, Yohei Kono. This was widely understood as the Japanese government’s formal apology for the wartime network of brothels and front-line encampments that provided sex for the military and its contractors. The statement was particularly welcomed in South Korea, which was annexed by Japan from 1910 to 1945 and was the source of a majority of the trafficked comfort women.
安倍政府的一个重要目标是，削弱1993年的“河野谈话”(Kono Statement)。这次谈话以当时的日本内阁官房长官河野洋平(Yohei Kono)命名，被普遍理解为日本政府对于战时使用慰安所和前线营地为军方及承包商提供性服务一事，所做的正式道歉。河野谈话在韩国尤其受到欢迎，因为朝鲜半岛在1910年至1945年间被日本吞并，是大部分被掳掠的慰安妇的来源地。
Imperial Japan’s military authorities believed sex was good for morale, and military administration helped control sexually transmitted diseases. Both the army and navy trafficked women, provided medical inspections, established fees and built facilities. Nobutaka Shikanai, later chairman of the Fujisankei Communications Group, learned in his Imperial Army accountancy class how to manage comfort stations, including how to determine the actuarial “durability or perishability of the women procured.”
日本帝国军队管理层认为，性有利于提升士气，而军事化管理有助于控制性病。日本陆军和海军都贩卖过妇女，对她们进行医疗检查、设定收费标准，并建造设施。后来的富士产经集团(Fujisankei Communications Group) 会长鹿内信隆(Shikanai Nobutaka)，就在帝国陆军的会计课程中，学过如何管理慰安所，包括怎样精确测算“所获女性的保质期或易损耗性”。
Japan’s current government has made no secret of its distaste for the Kono Statement. During Mr. Abe’s first administration, in 2007, the cabinet undermined the Kono Statement with two declarations: that there was no documentary evidence of coercion in the acquisition of women for the military’s comfort stations, and that the statement was not binding government policy.
目前的日本政府公开表现出对河野谈话的不满。2007年，在安倍晋三第一个任期中，内阁用两项声明淡化了河野谈话：一是没有书面证据表明军方慰安征招女性时存在胁迫现象；二是河野谈话不是具有约束力的政府政策。
Shortly before he became prime minister for the second time, in 2012, Mr. Abe (together with, among others, four future cabinet members) signed an advertisement in a New Jersey newspaper protesting a memorial to the comfort women erected in the town of Palisades Park, N.J., where there is a large Korean population. The ad argued that comfort women were simply part of the licensed prostitution system of the day.
2012年，再次成为首相之前不久，安倍晋三（和四位未来的内阁成员等人一起）为刊登在一份新泽西报纸上的告示联署，抗议在聚居着很多韩裔人口的该州帕利塞兹帕克镇树立慰安妇纪念像。告示称，慰安妇只不过是当年卖春许可制度的产物。
In June this year, the government published a review of the Kono Statement. This found that Korean diplomats were involved in drafting the statement, that it relied on the unverified testimonies of 16 Korean former comfort women, and that no documents then available showed that abductions had been committed by Japanese officials.
今年6月，日本政府发布了一份对河野谈话的审核报告。文中的结论是，河野谈话由韩国外交官参与起草，它依据的16名韩国前慰安妇的证词是未经证实的，而且当时也没有文件显示日本官员掳掠过妇女。
Then, in August, a prominent liberal newspaper, The Asahi Shimbun, admitted that a series of stories it wrote over 20 years ago on comfort women contained errors. Reporters had relied upon testimony by a labor recruiter, Seiji Yoshida, who claimed to have rounded up Korean women on Jeju Island for military brothels overseas.
到了8月份，著名的自由派报纸《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)承认，其20多年前报道的一系列慰安妇故事中存在错误。记者当时采用了劳工招募人吉田清治(Seiji Yoshida)的证词。此人声称，自己曾在济州岛绑架韩国女性，并把她们送到海外的军妓所。
The scholarly community had long determined that Mr. Yoshida’s claims were fictitious, but Mr. Abe seized on this retraction by The Asahi to denounce the “baseless, slanderous claims” of sexual slavery, in an attempt to negate the entire voluminous and compelling history of comfort women. In October, Mr. Abe directed his government to “step up a strategic campaign of international opinion so that Japan can receive a fair appraisal based on matters of objective fact.”
学术界早已认定吉田清治的说法是子虚乌有。但是，安倍晋三利用《朝日新闻》撤回报道的机会，谴责性奴役的说法“毫无根据、纯属诽谤”，试图将著述颇多、具有说服力的慰安妇历史加以全盘否认。10月，安倍晋三命令日本政府“开展国际舆论的战略宣传攻势，使日本能够基于客观事实，得到公正评价。”
Two weeks later, Japan’s ambassador for human rights, Kuni Sato, was sent to New York to ask a former United Nations special rapporteur on violence against women, Radhika Coomaraswamy, to reconsider her 1996 report on the comfort women — an authoritative account of how, during World War II, imperial Japan forced women and girls into sexual slavery. Ms. Coomaraswamy refused, observing that one retraction did not overturn her findings, which were based on ample documents and myriad testimonies of victims throughout Japanese-occupied territories.
两周后，日本负责人权问题的大使佐藤地(Kuni Sato)被派往纽约，请联合国关于女性所受暴力问题的前特别报告员拉迪卡·库马拉斯瓦米(Radhika Coomaraswamy)重新审核她1996年撰写的关于慰安妇的报告——这份具有权威性的报告讲述了二战期间，日本帝国迫使成年及未成年女性充当性奴的情况。库马拉斯瓦米拒绝了这一请求，并表示，单凭一次撤回报道的举动并不足以推翻她的结论。这些结论是根据来自各日占区的大量文件和受害者证词而得出的。
There were many ways in which women and girls throughout the Indo-Pacific became entangled in the comfort system, and the victims came from virtually every settlement, plantation and territory occupied by imperial Japan’s military. The accounts of rape and pillage leading to subjugation are strikingly similar whether they are told by Andaman Islanders or Singaporeans, Filipino peasants or Borneo tribespeople. In some cases, young men, including interned Dutch boys, were also seized to satisfy the proclivities of Japanese soldiers.
在整个印度洋-太平洋地区，女性通过各种方式卷入了慰安体系，而且受害者来自日本帝国军队占领的几乎每片居民区、种植园和领地。不论是安达曼岛民，还是新加坡人，不论是菲律宾农民，还是婆罗洲的部落成员，在谈到惨遭奸淫掳掠直至屈从的经历时，她们的描述具有惊人的相似性。在一些案例中，年轻男子——包括被监禁的荷兰男孩——也会被抓去满足日本军人的癖好。
Japanese soldiers raped an American nurse at Bataan General Hospital 2 in the Philippine Islands; other prisoners of war acted to protect her by shaving her head and dressing her as a man. Interned Dutch mothers traded their bodies in a church at a convent on Java to feed their children. British and Australian women who were shipwrecked off Sumatra after the makeshift hospital ship Vyner Brooke was bombed were given the choice between a brothel or starving in a P.O.W. camp. Ms. Coomaraswamy noted in her 1996 report that “the consistency of the accounts of women from quite different parts of Southeast Asia of the manner in which they were recruited and the clear involvement of the military and government at different levels is indisputable.”
日军在位于菲律宾群岛的巴丹第二综合医院(Bataan General Hospital 2)强奸了一名美国护士。其他战俘为了保护她，本已给她剃了光头，并让她穿得像个男人。被拘禁的荷兰母亲为了哺育自己的孩子，在爪哇岛一座女修道院的礼拜堂里出卖身体。当临时医务船“维纳·布鲁克号”(Vyner Brooke)在苏门答腊岛附近被炸弹击中后，落难的英国和澳大利亚女性被迫面临着两难的选择：要么充当慰安妇，要么在战俘营里挨饿。库马拉斯瓦米在她1996年的报告中指出，“虽然这些女性来自东南亚各个不同地方，但是她们对自己被强征的过程，以及日本军方和政府在不同层面的明显参与的讲述颇为一致，这一点是无可辩驳的。”
For its own political reasons, the Abe administration studiously ignores this wider historical record, and focuses instead on disputing Japan’s treatment of its colonial Korean women. Thus rebuffed by Ms. Coomaraswamy, the chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, vowed to continue advocating in international bodies, including the United Nations Human Rights Council, for Japan’s case, which is to seek to remove the designation of comfort women as sex slaves.
出于政治私欲，安倍政府在刻意忽视这份涵盖面更广的历史记录，转而把注意力放到就日本对待日据区朝鲜半岛女性的问题进行争辩上。在遭到库马拉斯瓦米拒绝后，日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)发誓将继续在联合国人权理事会(Human Rights Council)等国际机构为日本辩护，意图使慰安妇不再被定义为性奴。
The grave truth about the Abe administration’s denialist obsession is that it has led Japan not only to question Ms. Coomaraswamy’s report, but also to challenge the United Nations’ reporting on more recent and unrelated war crimes, and to dismiss the testimony of their victims. In March, Japan became the only Group of 7 country to withhold support from a United Nations investigation into possible war crimes in Sri Lanka, when it abstained from voting to authorize the inquiry. (Canada is not a member of the Human Rights Council but issued a statement backing the probe.) During an official visit, the parliamentary vice minister for foreign affairs, Seiji Kihara, told Sri Lanka’s president, “We are not ready to accept biased reports prepared by international bodies.”
这里有个严峻的事实：安倍政府执迷于否认战争罪行。所以，日本不仅质疑库马拉斯瓦米的报告，还针对联合国近些年公布与日本无关的战争罪行的做法发起挑战，并且对相关受害者的证词不予认可。今年3月，在授权联合国就斯里兰卡是否存在战争罪行进行调查时，日本投了弃权票，成了七国集团(Group of 7)中唯一不对此表示支持的国家。（加拿大并非人权理事会成员国，但是发表了一份声明，支持调查。）日本外务大臣政务官木原诚二(Seiji Kihara)在官方访问期间告诉斯里兰卡总统，“我们不准备接受国际机构准备的带有偏见的报告。”
Rape and sex trafficking in wartime remain problems worldwide. If we hope to ever reduce these abuses, the efforts of the Abe administration to deny history cannot go unchallenged. The permanent members of the United Nations Security Council — all of whom had nationals entrapped in imperial Japan’s comfort women system — must make clear their objection to the Abe government’s perverse denial of the historical record of human trafficking and sexual servitude.
战争期间的强奸和非法性交易仍然是一个世界性的问题。如果我们希望减少这方面的罪行，就不能任由安倍政府否认历史。联合国安理会常任理事国——它们都有身陷日本帝国慰安体系的国民——必须明确表示，他们反对安倍政府刻意否认关于人口贩卖和性奴役的历史记录的行为。