WASHINGTON — The Republican Party began abandoning Donald Trump on Saturday after the release of a video showing him speaking of women in vulgar sexual terms, delivering a punishing blow to his campaign and plunging the party into crisis a month before the election.
华盛顿——周六，在一段唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)用粗俗不雅的字眼谈论女性的视频爆出后，共和党开始放弃他。这给他的竞选团队造成了重创，并让共和党在离大选只剩一个月时陷入危机。
Fearing his candidacy was on the verge of undermining the entire Republican ticket next month, a group of senators and House members withdrew their support for him Saturday, with some demanding that he step aside.
周六，因为担心他的候选人身份会在下月影响全体共和党候选人，一些参议员和众议员收回了对他的支持，其中一些人要求他让位。
Foremost among them was Sen. John McCain of Arizona, the party’s 2008 nominee.
他们中的带头人是2008年的共和党总统提名人选、亚利桑那州联邦参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)。
“I thought it important I respect the fact that Donald Trump won a majority of the delegates by the rules our party set,” McCain said in a statement. “But Donald Trump’s behavior this week, concluding with the disclosure of his demeaning comments about women and his boasts about sexual assaults, make it impossible to continue to offer even conditional support for his candidacy.”
“按照我们党制定的规则，唐纳德·特朗普赢得了多数代表支持。我尊重这个事实。我认为这一点很重要，”麦凯恩在一份声明中说。“但唐纳德·特朗普本周的行为，最后还被爆出用有失体面的言语谈论女性，并在性骚扰方面自夸，这一切让人很难再支持他的候选人资格，哪怕是有条件的支持。”
By midday, no fewer than 21 GOP members of Congress and governors who had backed Trump disavowed his candidacy, an unprecedented desertion by the institutional Republican Party of its own standard-bearer.
到了中午，至少21名此前支持特朗普的共和党国会议员和州长否定了他的候选人身份。共和党权力阶层像这样抛弃自己的领袖是前所未有的。
Aides described Trump as shaken, watching news coverage of the video with a mix of disbelief and horror. Shortly after midnight, he released a videotaped statement, saying: “I’ve said and done things I regret, and the words released today on this more than a decade-old video are one of them.”
助手称特朗普非常震惊，观看有关该视频的新闻报道时既怀疑又恐惧。午夜过后不久，他通过一段录像发表声明：“我为以前的一些言行感到懊悔，我在今天被公开的一段十多年前的视频里说的话，便属于这种言行。”
In a brief telephone interview Saturday, he shrugged off the calls to leave the presidential race, saying he would “never drop out of this race in a million years.”
周六接受简短的电话采访时，他对让其退出总统竞选的呼声不以为意，称自己“永远不会退出这场竞选”。
A couple of hours later, the campaign released a statement from his wife, Melania. “The words my husband used are unacceptable and offensive to me,” she said. “This does not represent the man that I know.”
几小时后，特朗普的竞选团队公布了他妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)的一份声明。“我丈夫的用语令人无法接受，冒犯到了我，”她说。“这些话不能代表我认识的那个人。”
“I hope people will accept his apology, as I have, and focus on the important issues facing our nation and the world,” she said.
“我希望民众像我一样，接受他的道歉，并把注意力集中在我国和全世界面临的重要问题上，”她说。
But the situation had grown so dire that many in the party were all but pleading with him to withdraw and let Pence serve as the party’s standard-bearer. On Saturday afternoon, Sen. John Thune of South Dakota, chairman of the Republican conference, became the senior-most Republican to call on Trump to end his bid and make way for Pence.
但形势变得非常糟糕，以至党内很多人都恳求他退出大选，让彭斯(Pence)担任共和党的领袖。周六下午，南达科他州联邦参议员、共和党会议主席约翰·图恩(John Thune)成为要求特朗普结束竞选并让位于彭斯的最高级别共和党人。