JAKARTA, Indonesia — Defying international condemnation and rejecting 11th-hour pleas for clemency, the Indonesian government executed eight drug convicts after midnight on Wednesday, including seven foreigners.
印度尼西亚雅加达——印度尼西亚政府不顾国际社会谴责，并驳回了在最后一刻为特赦发起的请愿，在周三凌晨处决了八名毒犯，其中有七位外籍人士。
But the execution of a ninth convict, scheduled to happen at the same time, was unexpectedly postponed at nearly the last minute, according to the Indonesian attorney general’s office.
然而印尼司法部说，本应同时处决的第九位死刑犯意外地在临刑前最后一刻延迟行刑。
The executed prisoners, from Australia, Brazil and Nigeria, along with one Indonesian, were shot by police firing squads at about 12:25 a.m. local time at a site outside the gates of Pasir Putih prison on the island of Nusa Kambangan off the southern coast of Java, according to the attorney general’s office.
印尼司法部透露，被处决的囚犯来自澳大利亚、巴西与尼日利亚，也有一名印尼人。他们一同被警方行刑队枪决，行刑时间是当地时间0点25分，地点在爪哇岛以南的努萨安邦岛(Nusa Kambangan)上的白沙监狱(Pasir Putih prison)门外。
The authorities granted the stay of execution to Mary Jane Veloso, 30, a Philippine citizen, after the Philippine government requested her assistance in a human trafficking case involving a woman who surrendered to the Philippine police on Tuesday.
有关当局同意暂缓处决30岁的菲律宾公民玛丽·珍·菲罗索(Mary Jane Veloso)。在菲律宾警方周二接获一名女性自首后，菲律宾政府要求菲罗索协助调查人口贩卖的案件。
“An alleged perpetrator of human trafficking gave herself up, and Mary Jane’s testimony is needed,” Tony Spontana, a spokesman for the Indonesian attorney general, wrote in a text message shortly after the executions were carried out. “Eight people were executed, but not Mary Jane,” he wrote.
“一名贩卖人口主犯已经自首，因此需要玛丽·珍的证词，”印尼司法部长的发言人托尼·斯彭达纳(Tony Spontana)在行刑后发短信表示。“八名犯人被处决，但玛丽·珍除外。”
Ms. Veloso’s family maintains that she was duped by a drug syndicate into flying to Indonesia in 2010 with more than five pounds of heroin hidden in a suitcase. President Benigno Aquino III of the Philippines had repeatedly appealed for her to be spared. The woman who surrendered to the Philippine police on Tuesday was identified as one of those who recruited Ms. Veloso.
菲罗索的家属仍认为她被毒贩集团陷害，才在2010年飞往印尼时，用行李箱携带了五磅（约2.3公斤）海洛因。菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·阿基诺三世(Benigno Aquino III)一再呼吁赦免菲罗索。周二自首的女子，被指认为当初招募菲罗索的人之一。
Relatives and friends of the condemned paid them final visits on Tuesday, but were not allowed by the Indonesian authorities to witness the executions.
被处决囚犯的亲友在周二进行了最后的探视，但印尼当局并未允许他们见证枪决。
Shortly after midnight Tuesday, mourners in the port town of Cilacap, which is the access point to the prison island, held a candlelight vigil for the condemned prisoners that was televised.
在周二午夜后不久，哀悼者聚集在港口小镇芝拉札(Cilacap)，为这些在电视上曝光的犯人进行烛光守夜。芝拉札是通往监狱所在岛屿的渡口。
The mass execution was the second in Indonesia this year. In January, five foreign drug convicts and one Indonesian convicted of murder were shot by firing squads on the island.
这是印尼今年第二次集体枪决。今年1月，这座监狱岛屿上也枪决了五名外籍毒犯与一名印尼籍杀人犯。
On Saturday, the attorney general’s office gave 72 hours’ notice to the latest group of condemned prisoners, their legal teams and their respective embassies that the executions would be carried out.
司法部周六通知受刑人、法律团队与相关国家的使领馆，将在72小时后行刑。
On Monday, an Australian prisoner, Andrew Chan, married his Indonesian fiancée in a small ceremony at the prison.
澳大利亚籍囚犯安德鲁·陈(Andrew Chan)周一在监狱里举行了简单的仪式，与他的印尼未婚妻成婚。
A French citizen who was also originally on the list to be executed won a two-week reprieve from the State Administrative Court in Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, which will hear his challenge to a clemency rejection by President Joko Widodo.
本在此次处决名单中的一位法国公民，则获得了国家行政法院(State Administrative Court)两周的缓刑。位于印尼首都雅加达的这间法庭将听取他对印尼总统佐科·威多多(Joko Widodo)拒绝特赦而提出的上诉。
Shortly after taking office last October, Mr. Joko declared that Indonesia was facing “a national emergency” of drug abuse, and he rejected 64 clemency appeals from death row drug convicts, most of them foreigners. Saying Indonesia had a right to exercise its drug laws, Mr. Joko’s government rejected international pleas to cancel the executions, including one from Ban Ki-moon, secretary general of the United Nations.
佐科在去年10月执政后不久，便宣布印尼面临着滥用毒品所造成的“国家危机”，并驳回了64宗毒犯死刑的特赦申请，其中多数为外籍人士。佐科表示印尼有权执行自己的毒品法律，左科政府拒绝了国际社会取消行刑的呼吁，包括联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)发出的呼吁。
The executions have angered some of Indonesia’s largest aid donors, including Australia and the European Union.
印尼最大的几个国际援助人，包括澳大利亚与欧盟(European Union)等，都被这两次处决激怒了。
Brazil and the Netherlands withdrew their ambassadors after the January executions, and Australia has said it may do the same this time. France has lodged a diplomatic protest and warned that diplomatic relations with Indonesia could be affected.
巴西与荷兰已在1月的行刑后召回了大使，澳大利亚表示在此次行刑后可能会采取同样的举动。法国则对此事提出外交抗议，并警告可能影响两国外交关系。
Advocates for the convicts have also argued that the Indonesian courts that sentenced their clients were corrupt.
受刑人的律师还指称，判处其当事人死刑的印尼法院贪污腐败。
Lawyers for the two executed Australian convicts, Mr. Chan, 31, and Myuran Sukumaran, 34, say the judge who handed down the death penalty to the pair had offered a lighter sentence in exchange for money. The pair, members of the so-called Bali Nine who were arrested in 2005 trying to smuggle 18.5 pounds of heroin out of the Indonesian resort island, admitted their guilt but said they had reformed.
31岁的安德鲁·陈与34岁的缪兰·苏库玛朗(Myuran Sukumaran)两位澳大利亚籍人士属于“巴里岛九人帮”(Bali Nine)。两人的律师表示，判处死刑的法官曾提出以金钱换取较轻的刑罚。“九人帮”在2005年从这座度假岛屿走私18.5磅的海洛因出国而被逮捕，安德鲁·陈和苏库玛朗承认罪行，但声称已改过自新。
The Indonesian wife of one of the Nigerians executed, Silvester Obiekwe Nwolise, 47, also claimed that the judges at his trial had offered a lighter sentence in return for a bribe.
遭枪决的其中一人是47岁的尼日利亚人瑟维斯特·欧比奎·诺利斯(Silvesteer Obiekwe Nwolise)，他的妻子也宣称，法庭在审判丈夫时，曾提出以贿赂换取较轻的刑罚。