Standing near an ice sculpture of a phallus encased in a condom, Charlie Sheen took the stage at an event on Monday evening in Manhattan to help introduce a prophylactic called HEX from a Swedish luxury sex-toy brand.
周一晚上，查理·辛(Charlie Sheen)在曼哈顿的一场活动中登台。他站在一个套着避孕套的阴茎冰雕附近，帮助介绍一款由瑞典奢侈情趣用品品牌推出的名为HEX的避孕套。
He emerged through a glass door in the corner of the room, shortly after a video of him, speaking frankly about his diagnosis of H.I.V., played on a television in the center of the room.
房间中央的一台电视播放了他的一段视频，他在视频中坦率讲述自己被诊断染上HIV。之后不久，他从房间角落的一扇玻璃门中走出来。
As the real thing suddenly popped into the room, dressed in a charcoal suit and seeming smaller and far more upbeat than the man who last made public rounds in November, when he announced to the world that he was H.I.V.-positive, the crowd gasped.
当他本人突然出现在房间里时，观众们吃惊不小。他身穿黑色西服，看起来比他上次公开亮相时更矮小，但乐观得多。他上次亮相是在去年11月，他宣布自己染上HIV。
It was a surprise appearance at the Midtown party for HEX, a latex condom with a resilient honeycomb like structure developed by the brand LELO. Before Mr. Sheen’s appearance, the event had consisted of photo booths and party games like pricking a pin through condoms stretched across LELO vibrators.
在曼哈顿中城为乳胶避孕套HEX举办的这场派对上，他的亮相令人意外。HEX是LELO品牌开发的一款富有弹性的蜂巢结构避孕套。辛亮相前，这场派对布置了一个自动照相棚，还组织了其他一些派对活动，比如，把避孕套拉伸固定到LELO的振动棒上，用大头针刺破。
Mr. Sheen acknowledged the reaction, asking the crowd: What business does a man who has five children and H.I.V. have hawking a contraceptive? Well, he continued, one of those things he wished he never had.
辛对人群的反应表示理解，并问道：宣传避孕套跟一个有五个孩子又有艾滋病毒的人有什么关系？这个嘛，他接着说道，其中一样他希望自己没有。
The emergence of Mr. Sheen as a hybrid spokesman-activist at the party, where dancers in hexagon-pattered leotards performed erotic dance routines, signified a new act for the troubled actor.
辛以代言人和活动家的双重身份出现在派对上，表明这位陷入麻烦的演员采取了新的行动。身穿六边形图案紧身衣的舞者在派对上表演着色情舞蹈。
Since confirming his H.I.V. status on the “Today” show, Mr. Sheen has not just begun to engage in H.I.V./AIDS activism, he has also started to participate in a clinical trial of a new anti-H.I.V. drug and become its de facto spokesman.
自从在《今日秀》(Today)节目中证实自己感染艾滋病毒后，辛不仅开始参与HIV和艾滋病宣传活动，而且开始参与一款新型抗HIV药物的临床试验，成为它事实上的代言人。
Steve Thomson, LELO’s chief marketing officer, said in an email that Mr. Sheen was “the perfect choice for LELO, a tragic reflection of the current situation in sexual health of today, but more importantly, a symbol of change with the strength and the courage to confront key issues head on.”
LELO的营销主管史蒂夫·汤姆森(Steve Thomson)在接受电子邮件采访时说，辛是“LELO的最佳选择，他是今天性健康问题现状的一个悲剧性体现，但更重要的是，他也象征着改变，用力量和勇气去直面关键问题。”。
After Mr. Sheen’s announcement, internet searches about the disease spiked, Mr. Thomson said. “At this point,” Mr. Thomson said, “he realized that there is potential to do more on the issue, much more than to tend to his personal interests.”
汤姆森称，辛宣布染病后，网上关于这一疾病的搜索激增。“这时候，”汤姆森说，“他意识到，在这个问题上，他可以做更多事情，比关心自己的个人利益多得多的事情。”