TEL AVIV — IS Iran finally ready to talk? Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani, has said he’s ready for nuclear negotiations. And in recent weeks, the Iranian government has repeatedly expressed its desire to reach a deal on its uranium enrichment program.
特拉维夫——伊朗终于准备好对话了吗？伊朗新任总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)说他已经准备好开始核谈判。过去几周里，伊朗政府反复表达了就铀浓缩项目达成协议的意愿。
A few days after Mr. Rouhani’s election victory, Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, stated that Iran was prepared to limit its enrichment to a level below 20 percent, which is the main goal of a future agreement between the West and Iran. And last month, Iraq’s prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, reportedly told the White House that Iran wanted to begin direct nuclear negotiations with the United States.
鲁哈尼在大选中获胜几天后，俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)宣布伊朗准备将其铀浓缩水平降至20%以下，这是西方国家和伊朗未来签订协议的主要目标。上月有报道称，伊朗总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)告诉白宫，伊朗希望和美国展开直接的核问题谈判。
But it would be dangerous to think that Iran’s proposal for negotiations alone would pave the way for a deal. What matters is not the talks but the outcome.
但是，仅仅因为有了伊朗的谈判提议，就认为双方的协议能水到渠成，那将是危险的。会谈不重要，重要的是结果。
Whoever negotiates with Iran must acknowledge that the enrichment of uranium from a low level (3.5 percent to 19.75 percent) to weapons-grade level (90 percent) is only one of three dimensions of Iran’s nuclear strategy. A second dimension is Iran’s progress toward a quick “breakout capability” through the stockpiling of large quantities of low-enriched uranium that could be further enriched rapidly to provide weapons-grade fuel. Third, Iran also appears to be pursuing a parallel track to a nuclear capability through the production of plutonium.
不管是谁去和伊朗谈判，必须明白一点，将铀浓缩从低水平（3.5%到19.75%）提高到武器级(90%)只是伊朗核战略三个维度中的一个。第二个维度是伊朗在取得快速“突破能力”方面的进展，通过储备大量低浓缩铀，它可以快捷地进行进一步浓缩，以制作武器级核燃料。第三个维度是，伊朗看起来还在从事钚的生产，作为寻求核能力的另一条并进途径。
If there is going to be a nuclear deal with Iran, all three parts of its strategy must be addressed.
要想和伊朗签订核协议，这个战略的三个组成部分都需要照顾到。
In the past year, Iran has installed thousands of centrifuges, including more than 1,000 advanced ones. A report by the International Atomic Energy Agency states that Iran already has enough low-enriched uranium to produce several nuclear bombs if it chooses to further enrich the fuel. Iran has deliberately refrained from crossing what is perceived as Israel’s red line: 240 kilograms (about 530 pounds) of uranium enriched to a level of 19.75 percent.
去年，伊朗装配了数千台离心机，其中有超过1000台是很先进的。据国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)称，一旦伊朗对核燃料作进一步浓缩，它掌握的低浓缩铀已经足够制造数枚核弹。伊朗在有意识地避免越过被视为以色列容忍底限的一个数值：240公斤浓缩到19.75%的铀。
Nonetheless, Western experts like Graham T. Allison Jr. and Olli Heinonen estimate that if Iran decided to develop a bomb today, it could do so within three to five months. That is assumed to be sufficient lead time for the West to detect and respond to an Iranian decision.
然而，包括小格雷厄姆·T·阿利森(Graham T. Allison Jr.)和奥利·海诺宁(Olli Heinonen)在内的西方专家估计，如果伊朗今天决定制造核弹，它能在三到五个月之内完成任务。人们认为，这段时间足以让西方发现伊朗的决策，并作出回应。
But a recent report from the Institute for Science and International Security estimates that at the current pace of installation, Iran could reduce its breakout time to just one month by the end of this year. The report also estimates that at that pace, by mid-2014 Iran could reduce the breakout time to less than two weeks.
但科学和国际安全研究所(Institute for Science and International Security)最近的一份报告估计，若以当前的装配速度，到今年年底，伊朗便可把突破时间减少到一个月。该报告还估计，同样按照这样的速度，到2014年中期，伊朗可将突破时间压缩到两周以下。
Any agreement must ensure that an Iranian breakout is detected quickly enough to allow for a Western response — meaning that the international community must be able to uncover any concealed facilities and activities for the production of fissile material.
不管签订什么协议，都必须确保能很快发现伊朗的突破行动，要快到足以让西方做出反应，这意味着，国际社会必须有能力发现任何用于生产裂变材料的隐蔽设施和活动。
A solution will also have to address the potential for a plutonium bomb. In May, Iran announced that the heavy-water reactor in Arak would become operational early next year. Some American and European officials claim that Iran could produce weapons-grade plutonium next summer. These two announcements indicate that Iran is making progress on this alternative track. So far, the West has not paid much attention to the potential for a plutonium-fueled weapon. Now it must do so.
还必须有一个应对伊朗可能制造钚弹的解决方案。5月，伊朗宣布位于阿拉克的重水反应堆将于明年年初投入运行。美国和欧洲的部分官员称，到了明年夏天，伊朗可能会获得生产武器级钚的能力。这两份声明表明，伊朗的这个备选方案正在取得进展。截至目前，西方还未对伊朗可能制造以钚为燃料的武器这一点给与足够重视。现在，西方必须要重视这个问题。
A functioning nuclear reactor in Arak could eventually allow Iran to produce sufficient quantities of plutonium for nuclear bombs. Although Iran would need to build a reprocessing facility to separate the plutonium from the uranium in order to produce a bomb, that should not be the West’s primary concern. Western negotiators should instead demand that Iran shut down the Arak reactor.
如果阿拉克的核反应堆运行正常，便最终可能让伊朗生产出足够的钚，用以制造核弹。尽管为了制造核弹，伊朗必须建一处处理设施，以便把钚同铀分离开来，但这不应是西方需要多考虑的地方。西方谈判人员只是应该要求伊朗关闭阿拉克的反应堆。
This is crucial because the West would likely seek to avoid an attack on a “hot” reactor, lest it cause widespread environmental damage. Once Arak is operational, it would effectively be immune from attack and the West would be deprived of its primary “stick” in its efforts to persuade Iran to forgo a military nuclear capability.
这一点很关键，因为西方可能会寻求避免袭击“热”反应堆，以免对环境造成大范围损害。一旦阿拉克的核反应堆投入运行，它便会有效地对袭击形成免疫，西方也将在说服伊朗放弃军事核能力的努力中失去主要的“大棒”。
Of the three countries that have publicly crossed the nuclear threshold since the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty entered into force in 1970, two — India and North Korea — did so via the plutonium track. In order to deny Iran this route, any agreement between the West and Iran must guarantee that Iran will not retain a breakout or “sneak out” plutonium-production capacity.
自《核不扩散条约》(Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty)1970年生效以来，共有三个国家获得了核武器，其中两个国家，印度和朝鲜，是通过钚做到这一点的。为了防止伊朗也采用这个途径，不管西方和伊朗签署什么协议，都必须保证伊朗无法获得突破或是“偷偷”生产钚的能力。
At the United Nations last September, Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, focused only on uranium enrichment, reinforcing a one-dimensional perception of the Iranian nuclear program. This narrow perception is already widespread in the West and could enable Iran to attain a swift breakout capability using uranium or to build a plutonium bomb without detection.
去年9月，在联合国，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)只把重点放在了铀浓缩上，强化了对伊朗核计划的一维认识。这种在西方已经很普遍的狭隘认识，可能会让伊朗通过铀快速取得突破的能力，或是在不被发现的情况下制造出钚弹。
Negotiations with Iran should resume, and the sooner the better. But Western leaders must maintain their current leverage — sanctions and a credible military threat — and ensure that any future agreement with Iran addresses all three dimensions of Iran’s nuclear program. Moderate messages from Tehran should not be allowed to camouflage Iran’s continuing progress toward a bomb.
与伊朗之间的谈判应该恢复，而且越快越好。但西方领导人必须保住当前的砝码，即制裁和可信的军事威胁，并确保未来和伊朗签订的任何协议都要顾及伊朗核计划的全部三个维度。我们不应让来自德黑兰的温和讯息掩盖了该国在核弹研制方面的持续进展。