It goes without saying that the only near-term deal with Iran worth partially lifting sanctions for would be a deal that freezes all the key components of Iran’s nuclear weapons development program, and the only deal worth lifting all sanctions for is one that verifiably restricts Iran’s ability to breakout and build a nuclear bomb.
如果要部分解除对伊朗的制裁，近期之内唯一值得达成的协议就是伊朗方面停止核武器开发项目中所有的关键部分；如果要全面解除制裁，那么唯一值得达成的协议是切实限制伊朗突破和制造核弹的能力。以上两点是不言自明的。
But there is something else that goes without saying, but still needs to be said loudly: We, America, are not just hired lawyers negotiating a deal for Israel and the Sunni Gulf Arabs, which they alone get the final say on. We, America, have our own interests in not only seeing Iran’s nuclear weapons capability curtailed, but in ending the 34-year-old Iran-U.S. cold war, which has harmed our interests and those of our Israeli and Arab friends.
还有一些别的不言自明的情况，但是我还是要大声说出来：我们美国人不只是以色列和逊尼派统治的阿拉伯海湾国家雇佣的律师，帮他们进行谈判，而且最后拍板的人也是他们自己。我们美国人有自己的利益，不只在于限制伊朗发展核武器的能力，而且要终结长达34年的美伊两国之间的冷战，这一状态已经损害到了美国和我们以色列和阿拉伯朋友的利益。
Hence, we must not be reluctant about articulating and asserting our interests in the face of Israeli and Arab efforts to block a deal that we think would be good for us and them. America’s interests today lie in an airtight interim nuclear deal with Iran that also opens the way for addressing a whole set of other issues between Washington and Tehran.
因此，如果以色列人和阿拉伯人都想要阻碍某项协议，而这项协议其实对于我们和他们都有利，那么就算不情愿，我们还是要清楚、坚定地说出我们的利益。当今美国的利益在于跟伊朗达成一个严密的过渡时期涉核协议，这也将为解决华盛顿和德黑兰之间许多其他问题铺平一条路。
Some of our allies don’t share those “other” interests and believe the only acceptable outcome is bombing Iran’s nuclear facilities and keeping Iran an isolated, weak, pariah state. They don’t trust this Iranian regime — and not without reason. I don’t begrudge their skepticism. Without pressure from Israel, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, and the global sanctions on Iran they helped to spur, Iran would not be offering to scale back its nuclear program today.
我们的一些盟友不认同那些“其他”的利益，他们相信，唯一能够接受的结果，就是轰炸伊朗核设施，让伊朗永远成为一个孤立孱弱的国家、受人唾弃。他们不信任当今的伊朗政权——虽然他们都有自己的理由。对于他们的怀疑，我没有心怀不满。如果不是以色列、沙特阿拉伯和阿联酋等国家施加压力，以及在他们推动之下全世界对伊朗采取制裁，今天的伊朗也不会提出缩小其核项目规模。
But that pressure was never meant to be an end itself. It was meant to bring Iran in from the cold, provided it verifiably relinquished the ability to breakout with a nuclear weapon. “Just because regional actors see diplomacy with Iran as a zero-sum game — vanquish or be vanquished — doesn’t mean America should,” said Karim Sadjadpour, the expert on Iran at the Carnegie Endowment.
但是形成这样的压力从来都不是我们的终极目标。压力的目的是让伊朗加入我们的队伍，只要伊朗切实放弃取得核武器突破的能力。卡里姆·萨德杰普尔(Karim Sadjadpour)是卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment)的伊朗问题专家，他说，“在地区成员看来，跟伊朗的外交互动是一场零和博弈——要么打败伊朗，要么被伊朗打败——但这不意味着美国也应该这么看。”
Why? Let’s start with the fact that Iran has sizable influence over several of America’s most critical national security concerns, including Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, terrorism, energy security, and nuclear proliferation. Whereas tension with Iran has served to exacerbate these issues, détente with Tehran could help ameliorate them. Iran played a vital role in helping us to defeat the Taliban in Afghanistan in 2001 and can help us get out without the Taliban completely taking over again.
为什么这样说？先来看这样一个事实：在美国最重要的国家安全问题上，包括叙利亚、伊拉克、阿富汗、巴以冲突、恐怖主义、能源安全和核不扩散，伊朗都有相当大的影响力。鉴于跟伊朗的紧张关系已经导致了这些问题的恶化，那么缓和与德黑兰的关系则能使问题得到缓和。2001年，伊朗在帮助我们打败阿富汗塔利班的过程中发挥了关键作用，他们现在也能够帮助我们在不让塔利班重掌权力的前提下解决问题。
“Iran has at least as much at stake in a stable Iraq, and a stable Afghanistan, as we do — and as an immediate neighbor has a far greater ability to influence them, for good or ill,” said Nader Mousavizadeh, the Iranian-American co-founder of Macro Advisory Partners and a former top aide to U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan.
伊朗裔美国人纳德·穆萨维扎德(Nader Mousavizadeh)是Macro Advisory Partners的联合创办人，曾担任联合国秘书长科菲·安南(Kofi Annan)的首席助理，他表示，“对于伊朗来说，一个稳定的伊拉克，一个稳定的阿富汗也符合他们的利益，最起码也跟我们一样——作为上述两国的近邻，伊朗更有能力去影响他们，不管是从好的方面还是坏的方面。”
There is a struggle in Tehran today between those who want Iran to behave as a nation, looking out for its interests, and those who want it to continue behaving as a permanent revolution in a permanent struggle with America and its allies. What’s at stake in the Geneva nuclear negotiations — in part — “is which Iranian foreign policy prevails,” argued Mousavizadeh. A mutually beneficial deal there could open the way for cooperation on other fronts.
在今日之德黑兰，相互斗争的两派中，一派希望伊朗能够像一个正常国家一样关照自身利益，另一派则希望伊朗继续保持永恒的革命状态，永远跟美国及其盟友抗争。穆萨维扎德主张，从一定程度上来说，日内瓦核谈的关键问题“是伊朗哪一派外交政策占了上风。”如果能在那里达成一份互利的协议，就能够在其他问题上开启出合作的道路。
Moreover, there is nothing that threatens the future of the Middle East today more than the sectarian rift between Sunni and Shiite Muslims. This rift is being used by President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, Hezbollah and some Arab leaders to distract their people from fundamental questions of economic growth, unemployment, corruption and political legitimacy. It is also being used to keep Iran isolated and unable to fully exploit its rich oil and gas reserves, which could challenge some Arab producers. But our interest is in quelling these sectarian passions, not taking one side.
除此之外，当下最能威胁到中东未来的，就是逊尼派和什叶派穆斯林之间的宗派分歧。叙利亚的巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统、黎巴嫩真主党(Hezbollah)以及其他阿拉伯领袖都在利用这种宗派分歧，以转移人民的注意力，不去关注经济发展、失业、腐败和政权合法性等基本问题。这一议题还被用来继续孤立伊朗，让其无法充分利用其丰富的油气资源。伊朗的油气资源可以媲美一些阿拉伯的生产商。但是我们的利益不在于站队，而在于控制这些宗派狂热。
The Iran-U.S. cold war has prevented us from acting productively on all these interests. It is easy to say we should just walk away from talks if we don’t get what we want, but isolating Iran won’t be as easy as it once was. China, Russia, India and Japan have different interests than us vis-à-vis Iran. The only man who could unite them all behind this tough sanctions regime was Iran’s despicable previous president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The new president, Hassan Rouhani, is much more deft.  “Our sanctions leverage may have peaked,” said Sadjadpour. “Countries like China won’t indefinitely forsake their own commercial and strategic interests vis-à-vis Iran simply to please the U.S. Congress.”
美伊冷战导致我们不能卓有成效地维护我们所有这些方面的利益。如果得不到我们需要的，威胁说离开谈判桌是一件很容易的事，但是孤立伊朗并不像之前那样容易了。中国、俄罗斯、印度和日本在伊朗问题上的利益都跟我们不同。而唯一一个能将所有这些国家团结起来，共同支持对伊朗实施严格制裁手段的人，就是伊朗前总统、可鄙的马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)。新任总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)则要灵活得多。萨德杰普尔说，“制裁所能达到的效力可能已经到顶了。像中国这样的国家不会一直不顾自己跟伊朗的商业和战略利益，而一味讨好美国国会。”
All this is why the deal the Obama team is trying to forge now that begins to defuse Iran’s nuclear capabilities, and tests whether more is possible, is fundamentally in the U.S. interest. “The prize of détente with Iran is critical to allowing the U.S. a sensibly balanced future foreign policy that aligns interests with commitments, and allows us to rebuild at home at the same time,” said Mousavizadeh. There are those in the Middle East who prefer “a war without end for the same tribal, sectarian, backward-looking reasons that are stunting their own domestic development as open, integrated, pluralist societies,” he added. “They can have it. But it can’t be our war. It’s not who we are — at home or abroad.”
所有这些，就是为什么奥巴马的团队现在正在试图跟伊朗达成协议，开始拆除伊朗核能力，试探有否可能更进一步，这样一纸协议将从根本上维护美国的利益。穆萨维扎德表示，“能跟伊朗缓和关系非常关键，美国因此能够更好地平衡未来的外交政策，将利益和承诺协调一致，同时允许我们在国内进行重建。”他补充说，中东有人喜欢“因为同样的部族、宗派或者历史原因无休止地争战，这有碍于他们国内的发展，建立一个开放、和谐和多元的社会。他们想怎么样都行。但是这不是我们的战争。这不是美国人的风格——不论是在国内还是国际上。”