On the annual occasion in China for recognizing teachers’ contributions to society, a group of professors and students have called on Chinese education officials and university administrators to take more vigorous action against sexual harassment on university campuses.
在中国每年一度表彰教师社会贡献的特殊时刻，一群高校师生呼吁中国的教育官员和大学管理者，为防止校园性骚扰事件的发生采取更有力的行动。
On Tuesday, the day before Teachers’ Day, the 256 professors and students signed open letters addressed to China’s Ministry of Education as well as to Zhu Chongshi, the president of Xiamen University.
周二，也就是教师节的前一天，256名高校师生分别签署了致中国教育部以及厦门大学校长朱崇实的公开信。
In the letter addressed to Mr. Zhu, the group called on him to make public the findings of an investigation into a sexual harassment case that came to light in June involving a history professor who was accused of luring female students into having sex with him. After the allegations surfaced, the university suspended the professor, Wu Chunming, and announced that it had set up a special team to investigate the case.
在给朱崇实的信中，他们呼吁公布今年6月曝光的一桩性骚扰案的调查结果。该案涉及一名被指诱奸女学生的历史系教授。在指控浮出水面之后，学校中止了涉事教授吴春明的工作职责，并宣布已成立专门小组调查此案。
But after three months, the university has yet to announce the results of that investigation.
但三个月过去了，厦门大学仍未宣布调查结果。
“We hope that Xiamen University will deliver a just and fair conclusion for the involved parties and the public,” says the letter, which was made available to The New York Times. “But we also learned that before the media got involved in the Wu Chunming case, a number of people had already filed complaints about Wu, but the complaints were not taken seriously or properly investigated.”
“我们期待厦门大学能给当事人和公众一个公正、公平的结论，”这封《纽约时报》所见的信中写道，“不过我们也获知，在媒体介入之前，吴案中的一些当事人早就已经通过组织途径进行了投诉，但却并未得到足够重视与相应调查处理。”
“The reason,” continues the letter, which includes some signatures from Chinese studying or working abroad, “is because the colleges and universities in mainland China do not have established anti-sexual harassment mechanisms.”
“究其原因，”信中接着说，“在于我国大陆地区高校并未建立反性骚扰机制。”
Included in the letter to the Education Ministry was a proposed set of guidelines for establishing nationwide regulations to prevent and respond to sexual harassment on university campuses.
给教育部的信中还包含了一份高等教育学校性骚扰防治管理办法的建议稿。
While the focus of the letters is on the Wu Chunming case, organizers say they see the case as an opportunity to effect change nationwide.
尽管这两封信的关注焦点是吴春明案，发起人说，他们将此案看做在全国范围内促成改变的契机。
“The main thing is that we don’t think this is an individual case,” said Luo Ruixue of the Women Awakening Network, a Guangzhou-based women’s rights group that helped organize the letter to the ministry and Xiamen University. “What we really need is a system in place at universities to deal with these kinds of situations.”
“主要是，我们不认为这是个案。”新媒体女性网络的罗瑞雪说。这家位于广州的女权组织参与发起了致教育部和厦门大学的这两封公开信。“我们真正需要的，是在高校建立起处理类似情况的制度。”
“We hope that Xiamen University can set an example by creating this kind of a system,” Ms. Luo said in a telephone interview.
“我们希望厦门大学可以建立起这样的机制，成为全国的典范，”罗瑞雪在电话采访中说。
One of the signatories to the letter was a woman who recently completed a master’s degree at Xiamen University.
联名信的签署人中包括一名刚刚从厦门大学获得硕士学位的女生。
On Wednesday morning, the woman, who uses the pseudonym Xiao Wu to protect her privacy, took part in another, separately organized activity, intended to raise awareness about sexual harassment on campus. In photos circulated on Sina Weibo, Xiao Wu and nine other female students can be seen standing at the entrance of their respective universities, dressed in identical Little Red Riding Hood costumes and carrying swords and shields inscribed with the characters: “Give female students back our freedom and our nights.”
周三上午，她参加了另一个旨在提高对校园性骚扰案关注的活动。为了保护个人隐私，她化名为“小五”。新浪微博上传播的照片显示，小五和另外九名女生站在各自的学校门口，穿着相同的小红帽服装，手里举着剑和盾牌，盾牌上写着：“把自由和夜晚还给女生。”
“The traditional understanding is that Little Red Riding Hood was eaten by the Big Bad Wolf because she was not careful, so the moral of the story is often said to be to stay at home and not go anywhere,” said Xiao Wu by telephone from Xiamen. “Every time something happens or a sexual harassment case comes up, there are always voices that come out and say that the female students involved were not careful enough, were not aware enough of their safety.”
“传统的理解是，小红帽被大灰狼吃了，是因为她缺乏警惕，所以人们认为，这个故事告诉我们，要待在家里，哪也别去，”小五在厦门通过电话表示。“每次某些事件或性侵案发生时，总是有人说，是因为女学生缺乏警惕，安全意识不够。”
“By choosing Little Red Riding Hood and by holding those shields and swords, we are trying to make a statement to say that we aren’t going to be those people who only stay at home and don’t go anywhere.”
“我们选择装扮成小红帽，手举剑和盾牌，是想说，我们不打算成为只待在家里，哪儿也不去的人。”