It was awkward, in more ways than one.
真够尴尬的，不只是在一个方面。
At 1:40 p.m., Giorgio Armani sat up abruptly and announced he was returning to work. “O.K., I have to do 60 fittings.”
下午1点40分，乔治·阿玛尼(Giorgio Armani)突然坐直，宣布他要回去工作了。“好了，还有60次试衣呢。”
He stood and slipped the strap of his messenger bag over his snowy head. He had on a long-sleeve navy T-shirt and dark trousers, and his suntan looked fresh for late September. I scrambled out of the deep, pillow-piled sofa in the salon of his Milan home as he said, “I’m sorry about lunch, but please stay for something to eat.” He motioned toward a table set with a bucket of Champagne. Then he was gone.
他站起身，背上了斜挎包，背带从发色雪白的头顶掠过。他穿着深蓝色长袖T恤和深色长裤，晒黑的肤色在9月下旬显得分外清爽。“关于午餐我很抱歉，但还是请留下来吃点东西。”当他在自己米兰寓所的会客厅里说这番话时，我费劲地从那深凹下去、堆着靠垫的沙发上站起身来。他朝一张摆着一桶香槟的桌子示意了一下，旋即消失了。
Perhaps it should have been obvious to me that he never planned to sit for a lunch interview, as I had requested some weeks earlier when an Armani publicist made a pitch, the hook being a runway extravaganza the designer has scheduled on Oct. 24 for 700 guests at Hudson River Park.
或许我早就应该明白，他根本没打算坐下来接受午餐采访。之前阿玛尼的一名公关人员要求安排采访，缘由是阿玛尼计划在10月24日，在哈德逊河公园(Hudson River Park)举行一场时装秀，我提出了和他共进午餐的要求。
I had told myself that lunch alone with Giorgio Armani in his home at 21 via Borgonuovo could be an adventure. Who knows what effect a yummy plate of risotto might have on the tongue? It could be fun, I told the publicist.
我曾经对自己说过，在乔治·阿玛尼位于波尔歌努佛街21号(21 via Borgonuovo)的家中和他单独吃午餐，或许会是一场奇遇。谁知道一盘美味的烩饭能对谈话产生怎样的影响呢？会很有趣的，我告诉那位公关。
Going to a restaurant seemed out of the question, though Mr. Armani runs a Nobu and a cafe, not to mention a luxury hotel, in his sprawling retail complex on the Via Manzoni in Milan. Eating out may be the standard in New York and London, but in Italy, you eat in a designer’s home.
去餐厅吃饭似乎不大可能，尽管阿玛尼经营着一家Nobu餐厅和一家咖啡馆，而且在米兰曼佐尼街(Via Manzoni)他那庞大的购物中心里，还有一家奢华的酒店。在纽约和伦敦，在外面吃或许是惯常做法，但在意大利，要在设计师家中用餐才行。
In fact, the very first designer home I ever visited was Mr. Armani’s, back in 1987 or ’88, for a small press lunch. Done impeccably, it obviously made an impression. What I had failed to consider, though, were the differences between then and now.
事实上，我造访的第一处设计师的寓所，就是阿玛尼的家。当时是1987年或者1988年，我去参加了一场小规模的午餐招待会。他的家无可挑剔，显然给我留下了深刻的印象。不过我没有料想到，当时和现在已经有了很大的不同。
For one thing, Mr. Armani is vastly more wealthy, worth an estimated $8.5 billion, much of that acquired since the recession. He has 9 homes and a 213-foot yacht. In the late ’80s, his aesthetic vision — the radical, soft-shoulder silhouette, the monochromatic palette — still sparkled with newness. He was at the peak of his creative powers and his mastery of Hollywood star power (a path smoothed by Gabriella Forte, a former Armani executive, and Wanda McDaniel, the company’s longtime celebrity wrangler), even as he was coping with the death, in 1985, of Sergio Galeotti, his partner and co-founder.
首先，阿玛尼现在比过去富有得多，据估计他的身价有85亿美元，其财富的很大一部分都是经济衰退以来取得的。目前，他拥有九处房产和一艘213英尺长的游艇。上世纪80年代后期，他的审美眼光——他激进、柔和的肩部轮廓，单一的色调——还闪耀着新奇的火花。他的创造力，以及对好莱坞明星的影响力（为阿玛尼铺平这条道路的是阿玛尼公司的前高管加布里埃拉·福尔特[Gabriella Forte]和该公司长期以来打理明星事务的万达·麦丹尼尔[Wanda McDaniel]）都达到了顶峰，尽管他当时还在设法应对自己的拍档、公司联合创始人塞尔焦·加莱奥蒂(Sergio Galeotti)在1985年不幸离世所造成的影响。
In those days, he entertained three or four nights during the collections, taking advantage of his Peter Marino-designed palazzo. The shows were held in the basement theater, which seated 200 and was crammed. “He did go to great pains to be social,” an executive said.
那些日子里，他在发布新品期间，会用自己的宅邸举办三四次派对招待宾客，那栋豪宅是由彼得·马里诺(Peter Marino)设计的。地下室的剧场里进行表演时，200个座位全部坐满了人。一位高管说，“为了交际，他的确煞费苦心。”
But the biggest difference is that Mr. Armani is now 79. He survived a severe case of hepatitis two years ago. Why should he listen to anybody? On top of that, he is the sole owner of a nearly $3 billion business. “Maybe in our world we feel he’s a little passé, but he owns every store and factory,” said a former executive, adding with a chortle: “He’s a big industrialist. He doesn’t care! He probably had to be talked into meeting at home, but wasn’t going to sit down for lunch.”
但最大的不同之处在于，阿玛尼已是79岁高龄。两年前，他患上严重的肝炎，从鬼门关前走过了一回。他为什么还要去听别人说什么呢？除此之外，他还独自拥有一个价值近30亿美元的企业。一位前高管说，“或许在我们的世界里，我们感觉他有点落伍了，但他拥有每一个商店和每一家工厂。”他随即又大笑着补充道，“他是一个大实业家。他根本不在乎！他可能不得不听从劝说，在家里和人碰面，但他并不会坐下吃午餐。”
Standing at a table in a fabulous-looking salon eating cold canapés, the food put out with the Champagne, with two sheepish publicists wouldn’t be anyone’s idea of a glamorous Milan lunch. But it made perfect sense. The greatest obstacle to understanding a person is almost always our limited perception. And with Mr. Armani, another former executive said, “We all want him to be somebody else.”
站在华美的会客厅里的一张餐桌前，和两位局促不安的公关人员一起吃冷盘小点，食物和香槟一点都不搭——任何人脑海里在米兰享用午餐的画面，都不会是这个样子。但此情此景却完全合理。理解一个人的最大障碍，往往就是我们感知上的局限性。而这种感知上的局限性具体到阿玛尼，就像另一位前高管所说的，“我们都希望他成为别的什么人。”
That has been the industry’s chief blind spot for more than a decade. We want him to make relevant fashion, and not, as is sometimes the case, out-of-touch collections with bad styling elements like hats. We want him to be the rare owner/founder with the open-mindedness to anoint a design successor while he still can.
十多年来，这里一直是行业内最大的盲区。我们总希望他设计一些能与整个行业衔接的时尚，而不是像有时发生的那样，设计出脱离行业品味、带有帽子等糟糕元素的服饰。我们希望他能成为老板/创始人中少有的开明人物，趁还能指定后人，尽早指定一个设计上的接班人。
“And that’s the last thing he wants,” said one executive, who like others agreed to speak only on the condition of anonymity because of personal or business relationships. “Why would he want someone to come in and overshadow him?”
一位高管说：“那可是他最不想做的事。”这位高管与其他人一样，因为顾虑会影响个人或工作关系，要求匿名。“他怎么会愿意让某个人来，遮盖住他的光芒呢？”
My lunch with Mr. Armani was not a bomb. On the contrary, the whole experience was unexpectedly touching. First, he talked about succession, saying what he has said a dozen times before, but that in itself is revealing. In repeating himself, could he be saying what people just want to hear? And second, I went on a rambling tour of his house with his employees. It’s always amazing what private, ungussied-up rooms communicate.
我和阿玛尼的午餐并不令人扫兴。恰恰相反，整个过程的体验都出乎意料地让人触动。首先，他谈到了继承人，重复了以前已经说过十几次的话，但这本身就能透露很多信息。他之所以重复，会不会是想说一些别人都想听的话？其次，他的员工带领我在房子里闲逛着参观了一番，这些未经修饰过的房间在私下里传达出的讯息总是令人惊奇。
Mr. Armani and I met in the first-floor salon, a generous, vaulted, serene room with low lighting, dark floors, minimalist but plumped furniture and a lovely incensed smell. There were many eye-teasing objects, notably a huge pair of panthers. If there was an architectural thread, it was the ’30s.
阿玛尼和我是在一楼的会客厅见面的，这个有拱顶的房间十分宽敞，昏暗的灯光照在深色的地板上，屋内陈设着设计简约但饱满的家具，空气中有一股美好的香薰气味。房间里有很多件惹眼的物件，尤其是一对巨大的豹子。论其建筑风格，应该属于20世纪30年代。
He looked very fit considering that only a short time ago he was sick enough to be discussing a liver transplant with his doctors. “When I look at pictures then ... ,” he said through an interpreter, and shook his head. Once he began to feel well, he said, “the hardest thing was to convince the people around me that I was better. Their concern was sweet, but it made me feel endangered.” His face crinkled into a smile.
考虑到不久以前，他的病情还曾经严重到和医生讨论肝脏移植的地步，现在他看起来很健康。他通过翻译说，“我回过头去看了看那时的照片……”说罢摇了摇头。他说，感到身体好起来后，“最艰难的事情是让别人明白，我已经好些了。他们担心让我很感动，但也让我觉得自己很危险。”他微笑着，脸上堆满皱纹。
“Did the illness make you rethink things?” I asked.
我问，“疾病有没有让你重新思考一些事？”
“I never realized I was a rich man, funnily enough,” he said. “Work has taken so much time. But I didn’t realize I was wealthy. With the illness, my relationship to possession has changed.”
“很有意思的是，我从来没有意识到我是个富人，”他说，“工作占了太多时间，可是我没有意识到我很富有。得病之后，我和财产的关系发生了转变。”
Mr. Armani is being modest. People who know him well say one of the endearing things about him is that he doesn’t realize how rich he is. He’s not all that interested in art or reading. He doesn’t speak English. “He’s quite provincial in a way,” said a former executive, suggesting this is a positive. “He relies on his intuition.”
阿玛尼很低调。与他熟识的人说，他身上很讨人喜欢的一点就是，他意识不到自己多么富有。他对艺术或阅读没什么兴趣，也不会讲英语。一位前高管说道，“从某个方面看，他很乡土。”但该人表示这是正面的特质。“他靠的是自己的天赋。”
Mr. Armani has spent a fortune on homes, but as a former employee saw the distinction, “he invests in things that people will see, to make an impression,” and not for pleasure’s sake. “He is very frugal.”
阿玛尼花了很多钱在房屋上，但一位过去的员工能看出其中的特殊之处，“他会投资购置那些别人能看到的东西，为的是给人留下印象”，并不是为了自己愉悦。“他十分节俭。”
Mr. Armani enjoys a testy relationship with the news media, which he generally regards as judgmental. He actually likes criticism, he said, but many writers come across as dictatorial, as in, “Mr. Armani should be doing pantsuits again.” They forget, he said, “that I’ve already done that.” He laments the amount of conceptual fashion on the runways. “It’s a defect that many designers have — Prada most of all.”
阿玛尼与新闻媒体的关系时而会很紧张，他通常认为媒体是在指手划脚。他说，他实际上喜欢批评，但很多作者都太专断了，比如常常会写，“阿玛尼应该再做一些长裤套装。”他抱怨道，可是他们忘记“我已经做过那个了”。他惋惜地指出，T台上概念性的时尚作品太多了。“这是个很多设计师都有的毛病，普拉达(Prada)尤其多。”
When I remarked that you seldom see a simple summer dress on the runways, the king of understatement chuckled. “Because you won’t get the cover of a magazine if you do that. Capito?” He added, however, that new markets in Asia and the Middle East want spectacular-looking things. His eyes twinkled. “So do we do a show for you and another for the others?” Touché.
我评价道，很少能在T台上见到简单的夏季裙装，这位言辞低调的大师会心地笑了。“因为那样做的话，就没办法登上杂志封面啊。Capito（懂了吧）？”不过他又接着说，亚洲和中东的新市场，喜欢看起来很抢眼的东西。他眨了眨眼睛说，“那么我们要不要为你弄一场秀，再为别人弄一场秀？”一语中的。
Still, he has been guilty of violating his own tenets, most obviously with weird hats. He defended them by saying they gave a tidy shape to the models’ heads.
然而，他也违背过自己亲口说出的原则，最显而易见的就是怪异的帽子。他对这些帽子的辩护是，它们能给模特的头部带来齐整的形状。
But do his design assistants ever object? Mr. Armani’s closest assistants are his niece, Silvana Armani, and, for men’s wear, his longtime partner, Pantaleo Dell’orco, both of whom are about 60.
那么他的设计助理会反驳他的意见吗？阿玛尼最亲密的助手是侄女西尔瓦娜·阿玛尼(Silvana Armani)，而负责男装的助手则是他长期以来的伙伴潘塔莱奥·戴欧克(Pantaleo Dell’orco)。现在这两位都已经大约60岁了。
“Sì, sì,” he said, “Oh, it’s a constant fight.” He boxed the air.
“Sì,sì,（会的，会的）”他说，“哎呀，是一场停不下来的战斗。”他在空中挥舞着拳头。
Later, when I spoke to former executives, they said it’s difficult to disagree with him on things, though it’s a friendly environment, and that his assistants, having worked for him for years, are not apt to diverge from his look.
我后来与前高管交谈时，他们表示，很难在具体的事情上不同意他的观点，不过那是个友好的环境，他的助手们都已经为他工作了很多年，不大会偏离他的看法。
Seeing his houseman hovering by the table, I quickly brought up succession. He said that if he chose someone well known, that person would design in his own style. “And if I choose someone from my staff, it will become more Armani than Armani. So what do I do?”
看到管家走到桌前，我急忙提起了继承人的话题。他说，如果他选择一位知名的设计师，那个人就会以自己的风格设计。“可是我从自己的员工中选择，就会变得比阿玛尼还阿玛尼。所以我该怎么办呢？”
I mentioned Stefano Pilati, a former Armani assistant, who worked for Saint Laurent and now does a line for Zegna.
我提到了斯特凡诺·皮拉蒂(Stefano Pilati)，他曾是阿玛尼的助理，曾在圣洛朗(Saint Laurent)供职，现在负责杰尼亚(Zegna)的一个产品线。
Mr. Armani huffed a little. “Pilati’s already doing Armani.”
阿玛尼有些生气地说，“皮拉蒂已经在模仿阿玛尼了。”
He added, “So the solution is to remain here while I can and create a group of people that I can trust, with one person by my side.”
他补充说，“所以办法是只要还能留在这里，就继续在这里，培养一批我能信任的人，其中有一个站在我的身边。”
Do you think about it?
你会考虑这件事吗？
“Every morning,” he said, and then he clapped his hands. “O.K., fittings.” A minute later, he was gone, leaving me with the publicists and Paul Lucchesi, his amiable executive assistant.
“每天早上都想，”说罢，他拍拍手说，“好了，试衣。”一分钟后，他就离开了，留下我和他的公关人员，以及为人温和的执行助理保罗·卢凯西(Paul Lucchesi)待在一起。
It was odd to be at liberty, on a Saturday, in Mr. Armani’s palazzo (which houses some of his offices). So I proposed a tour, and after making a call to the upstairs private quarters, Mr. Lucchesi led the way.
这是个周六，而且我在阿玛尼的宫殿内（他的一些办公室就设在这里）可以无拘无束，这种感觉有些怪异。所以我提出想参观一下这里，在给楼上的私人居住区打过电话后，卢凯西开始带我参观。
We started in the basement, in the former theater and dressing rooms. We looked in on the lap pool, wedged in like a shoe box next to the theater, a group of carefully folded Speedos waiting to be used. Then we went upstairs to the gym. It contained every possible device, including a machine that shakes you. One of the publicists pointed to a tanning room and then said, “Where’s the tanning stall?” We found the shower-like cylinder in a corner.
我们先从地下室开始，这里原来是剧场和更衣室。我们去泳池看了看，它像个鞋盒一样镶嵌在剧场旁边，一些折叠整齐的泳衣放在旁边备用。然后我们上楼来到健身房。这里的器材应有尽有，其中还有一台让你全身摇晃的机器。一名公关指着一间美黑室说，“美黑棚在哪里？”我们在角落看到了像淋浴室一样的柱状物。
Along the way we met a young, nice-looking man named Michele. Evidently a member of the household (photos of him were on the walls anyway), Michele now joined the tour. We went into an upstairs living room, with a sectional sofa and a flat-screen television. Michele had been watching a Formula One race. It was a comfortable room, but hardly for show. It looked lived-in.
我们在路上遇到了一个俊朗的年轻男子，他叫米凯莱(Michele)。他明显是这里的一员（总之墙上挂有他的照片），然后他也加入了参观队伍。我们来到楼上的一间起居室，这里摆着一套组合沙发，还放了台平板电视。米凯莱刚才在观看一级方程式赛车(Formula One)的比赛。房间很舒适，但并不是为了给人展示而准备的，这里看起来似乎长期有人居住。
Then we went into Mr. Armani’s dressing area (mirrored, not large) and his bedroom. The California king had been stripped, but that’s not what made me feel like Marley’s ghost. It was that the room was relatively impersonal. No books, few pictures, a seating area that looked little used. It could have been a hotel room.
随后，我们来到了阿玛尼的更衣区（装有镜子，但并不大）和他的卧室，里面超大号的床上什么都没铺。但这个房间之所以给我“马里的鬼魂”(Marley’s ghost)似的感觉，并不是因为这个，而是因为相对而言，这个房间没有多少人情味。没有书，几乎没有图画，座位区看起来很少有人使用。很像是一个酒店房间。
“He’s not a warm and fuzzy guy,” said a former executive. True, but my take-away from my funny, awkward “lunch” with Mr. Armani was somewhat different. The man simply loves to work. And what could be more human than the stubborn desire to get up and out every day? The rest matters only to everyone else.
“他并不是一个热情、柔和的人，”一名前高管说。的确，但是我从与阿玛尼好笑而尴尬的“午餐”中得出的结论却有所不同。这个人只是热爱工作而已。他只是固执地希望每天起床后能出去工作，还有什么比这种态度更有人情味呢？其他事情只跟别人有关。
So he’ll go on until the day he can’t, and, inevitably, there will be acrimony between his natural family and his acquired family. Then a company like LVMH will sweep in with a fat offer. That’s one possible outcome.
所以，他会继续工作，直到力不能及的那一天。而他自然的家庭，与他后天获得的“家庭”之间，肯定不可避免地会出现矛盾。然后像路威酩轩(LVMH)这样的公司就会开出高昂的价码趁虚而入。这是一个可能的结果。
But until then, say people who know Mr. Armani, one shouldn’t take too seriously what he says about succession. “I don’t think he really cares about what happens when he’s gone,” one person said. “I think he sees the company for his own interests.” And if he’s not guiding it, then he doesn’t care.
但是认识阿玛尼的人说，在那之前，人们都不应该对阿玛尼关于继承人所说的话过于当真。“我并不认为他真的在乎自己走后会发生什么，”某人说，“我认为他只把公司当成了自己的事儿。”如果他不再领导公司，他就不会在乎了。