There are activities common to most humans that we enjoy immensely, without much thought, and as frequently as opportunity and instinct provide. On occasion, researchers feel they need to know why.
有一些活动让我们大多数人都乐此不疲——这种喜爱并不是深思熟虑的结果，一半出于机缘，一半是受到本能的驱使。这让研究人员们时不时地感到他们需要去探索一下其中的缘由。
Recently, experimental psychologists at Oxford University explored the function of kissing in romantic relationships.
近日，牛津大学(Oxford University)的实验心理学家们对接吻在恋爱关系中的作用进行了探讨。
Surprise! It’s complicated.
令人意外的是，这个问题非常复杂。
After conducting an online survey with 308 men and 594 women, mostly from North America and Europe, who ranged in age from 18 to 63, the researchers have concluded that kissing may help people assess potential mates and then maintain those relationships.
研究人员开展了一项网上调查，其中涉及308名男性和594名女性，且绝大多数都来自北美和欧洲，年龄从18岁至63岁不等。经过研究之后，科学家们得出了如下结论：接吻可以帮助人们对潜在的配偶进行评估，并有助于维持恋爱关系。
“The repurposing of the behavior is very efficient,” said Rafael Wlodarski, a doctoral candidate and lead author of the study, published in Archives of Sexual Behavior.
“这种行为的功能转换非常高效，”该研究的主要作者、博士生拉斐尔·沃达斯基(Rafael Wlodarski)在发表于《性行为档案》(Archives of Sexual Behavior)中的文章中如是说。
But another hypothesis about kissing — that its function is to elevate sexual arousal and ready a couple for coitus — didn’t hold up. While that might be an outcome, researchers did not find sexual arousal to be the primary driver for kissing.
关于接吻的另一种假说则认为，接吻的作用在于提高性唤起的水平，为情侣性爱做好准备。但这一假说并没有得到研究结果的支持。研究人员表示，虽然接吻可能可以达到这种效果，但他们尚未发现任何以接吻为主要驱动力的性唤起。
Participants in the survey were asked about their attitudes toward kissing in different phases of romantic relationships. They were then asked about their sexual history: for example, whether they had been more inclined toward casual encounters or long-term, committed relationships. They also had to define their “mate value” by assessing their own attractiveness. Later, during data analysis, the researchers looked at how individual differences affected a person’s thoughts on kissing.
在调查中，研究人员向参与者们询问了他们在恋爱的不同阶段中对接吻的态度。继而，又询问了他们的性生活史：例如，一直以来，他们比较倾向于露水姻缘还是彼此承诺忠诚的恒久爱情。并要求他们对自己的吸引力进行评估，从而确定其“婚姻市场价值”。在其后的数据分析中，研究人员就个体差异如何影响一个人的接吻观进行了探讨。
Earlier research had suggested that in a new relationship, a romantic kiss serves to pull two relative strangers into each other’s space, their faces glued together, possibly transmitting pheromonal, sensory, even genetic cues to each other’s brain. This could be a kind of primal interview: Could this person be mating material?
之前已有研究表明，在新展开的恋爱关系中，浪漫的吻是将相对陌生的两个人拉进对方空间的巧妙方法，紧密相贴的脸颊还可将信息素、感觉甚至遗传学方面的蛛丝马迹传达给对方的大脑。这有可能是一种最原始的面试：这个人，是不是一个理想的交配对象？
Mr. Wlodarski’s results suggest a more nuanced dynamic.
沃达斯基先生的研究结果则提出了一种更微妙的互动模式。
The participants generally rated kissing in casual relationships as most important before sex, less important during sex, even less important after sex and least important “at other times.” (To clarify: researchers defined kissing as “on the lips or open-mouth (French).”)
在比较随意的恋爱关系中，参与者们对不同时段里接吻重要性的排序如下：在性爱前最重要，性爱过程中次之，性爱之后再次，而在“其他时间”最不重要。（这里需要明确一下：研究人员对接吻的定义为：“轻吻嘴唇或法式热吻。”）
Past research has shown that three types of people tend to be choosier in selecting mates who are genetically fit and compatible: women, those who rate themselves highly attractive, and those favoring casual sex. In this study, these people said that kissing was important mostly at the start of a relationship.
既往的研究表明，在选择从遗传上与自己相匹配的适宜配偶时，有三种类型的人更挑剔：女性、认为自己富有吸引力的人以及性行为比较随意的人。在沃达斯基的研究中，这三种人都认为接吻在一段恋爱关系刚刚开始时最为重要。
That may be because for these individuals, kissing turns out to be a quick, easy way to sample a partner’s suitability — a subconscious stop-go light. For them, “The Shoop Shoop Song (It’s in His Kiss)” might not be far off the mark.
其中的原因可能是，对于这些人而言，接吻是一种检验对方与自己匹配程度的快捷方式。就像是潜意识里的红绿灯一样——如果能够与之深情热吻，说明对方应该还不赖。
After that first kiss, these types are much more likely than other subjects to change their minds about a potential partner, researchers found. If it’s not in his kiss, forget about him.
研究人员还发现，在初次接吻后，这三种人比其他受试者更容易改变他们对潜在伴侣的看法：如果不能一吻定情，那就抛之脑后好了。
But other people might use different criteria to size up their mates: men, those who rate themselves as less sexually attractive, and people looking for commitment. In the grand search for a partner, these individuals screen for people who seem to have the inclination and resources for the long haul. And for them, this study showed, kissing has a lower priority at the beginning of dating.
但其他人，比如男性、自认不够性感者以及寻求长久稳定恋爱关系的人，则可能使用不同的标准来衡量他们的配偶。从茫茫人海中众里寻他时，这些人更看重那些有意向也有能力维持天长地久的人选。研究表明，对他们而言，接吻在约会初期时的优先级就相对较低。
Particularly for men and women looking for long-term relationships, kissing serves other purposes, like relationship upkeep. They would use their orbicularis oris muscle to mediate, ameliorate and sustain their connections. They rated kissing equally important before sex and at “other times not related to sex.” For these participants, kissing was least important during sex.
尤其是对于那些追求永结同心，白头到老的男性和女性，亲吻往往具有其他的效用。譬如，他们充分运用自己的口轮匝肌，来调解、改善和维系他们的爱情。在这些参与者看来，接吻在性爱前及“与性爱无关的其他时候”同样重要，在做爱时重要性最低。
Among the study’s participants who said they were in exclusive relationships, frequency of kissing, rather than of sexual intercourse, was best correlated with relationship happiness.
这些用情专一的研究参与者认为，接吻（而非性爱！）的频率与爱情幸福度最为密切相关。
“You would think that intercourse would be even more bonding, more intimate, but that’s not necessarily so,” Mr. Wlodarski said. “Maybe you have a happy relationship and you don’t need more intercourse.” For contented couples, he said, kissing continued to be a conveyor of emotion.
“或许你会觉得人们在做爱时才更加契合，更加亲密，但事实未必如此，”沃达斯基说。“也许，当你拥有了幸福稳定的爱情后，你就不再需要那么多的性爱了。”相比之下，对这些心满意足的夫妇而言，接吻却始终是传递感情的纽带。
Justin R. Garcia, an evolutionary biologist at the Kinsey Institute at Indiana University and a scientific adviser to Match.com who was not involved in this research, noted that kissing was so closely associated with emotional connection that sex workers often refuse to kiss their customers, insisting that it is “too intimate.”
贾斯廷·R·加西亚(Justin R. Garcia)是美国印第安纳大学金赛研究所(Kinsey Institute at Indiana University)的进化生物学家，也是默契网(Match.com)的科学顾问，他并未参与本研究，不过他指出，接吻与感情联系间的关系非常密切，以至性工作者常常拒绝与他们的客户接吻，坚称那“太过亲密”。
Kissing has been shaped by both society and biology, Mr. Wlodarski noted. “In many cultures, kissing was one of the first opportunities for individuals to get close enough to sniff each other in socially acceptable ways,” he said. The Inuit press their nostrils on the cheeks or forehead of someone for whom they feel great affection, gently inhaling their scent.
沃达斯基先生指出，社会学和生物学赋予了接吻多方面的意义。“在许多文化中，接吻是在社会可接受的限度内，一个人第一次有机会可以名正言顺地与另一人接近到足以嗅到对方气息的程度，”他说。因纽特人也会将鼻孔贴近他深爱的人的脸颊或额头，轻轻吸取对方的气味。
Dr. Garcia, a co-author of “Evolution and Human Sexual Behavior,” said that the Oxford study contributed to growing research into factors that promote or discourage happy romantic and sexual relationships. “We really only understand a small portion of that,” he said. “But we know that physical contact, specifically good quality touch, is really important for long-term relationships.”
《进化和人类的性行为》(Evolution and Human Sexual Behavior)的合著者加西亚博士说，现在已经有越来越多的科学家们将研究的目光瞄准了可对幸福的爱情及性关系发挥促进或阻碍作用的因素，牛津大学的研究正是这类工作的添砖加瓦。“我们真正所知的只有其中的一小部分，”他说。“但我们都清楚，身体接触，尤其是高质量的肤触对于长期亲密关系非常重要。”
And perhaps not just for humans. Some animal species approximate what humans would call kissing. Chimpanzees press their mouths together. Certain parrots tap their beaks. Elephants put the tips of their trunks in one another’s mouths and swirl them about. “It’s what we biologists call an affiliative gesture,” Dr. Garcia said.
而且，这种情况可能并不仅限于人类。某些动物也存在类似于人类接吻的行为。黑猩猩会将它们的嘴巴压在一起。特定的鹦鹉物种会相互啄对方的喙。大象会把鼻子尖伸入彼此的口中，并作旋绕的动作。“我们生物学家称之为亲密姿势，”加西亚博士说。
Some in Hollywood have managed to divine some of the subtleties of kissing without the benefit of Oxford researchers.
即使并未得益于牛津大学研究人员的工作，好莱坞的工作者们也已对接吻的微妙之处略知一二。
Michelle King, who with her husband, Robert, is a co-creator of CBS’s “The Good Wife,” thinks a great deal about whether and when her sexually charged characters lock lips. “We put even more emphasis on kissing than sex,” she said. “We treat it as though it has more emotional import.”
米歇尔·金(Michelle King)与她的丈夫罗伯特(Robert)是哥伦比亚广播公司(CBS)《傲骨贤妻》 (The Good Wife)剧集的合作制片人。他们对剧集中激情洋溢的角色是否会与他人接吻以及何时会与人接吻进行了大量的思考。“甚至，与做爱相比，我们更重视接吻，”她说。“因为我们认为它带有更浓重的感情色彩。”
Referring to Alicia Florrick (played by Julianna Margulies), who has a wary relationship with her husband Peter (Chris Noth), Ms. King remarked, “You see Alicia having sex with Peter more frequently and recreationally than her kissing him.”
在谈到与丈夫彼得（Peter，由克里斯·诺特[Chris Noth]饰演）关系如履薄冰的女主角艾丽西亚·弗洛里克（Alicia Florrick，由朱莉安娜·马古利斯[Julianna Margulies]饰演）时，金女士评论道：“你看，艾丽西亚频繁地与彼得做爱并借此获得快感，但相对而言，她就很少吻他。”
But referring to the characters Diane Lockhart (Christine Baranski) and Kurt McVeigh (Gary Cole), older people who have just gotten married, Ms. King said, “you only see kissing with them, and a fair amount of it. There’s a soulful connection there, and the kissing is more conventionally romantic.”
但是，在谈到剧情中刚刚结婚的两名老人黛安娜·洛克哈特（Diane Lockhart，由克里斯蒂娜·巴兰斯基[Christine Baranski]饰演）和库尔特·麦克维（Kurt McVeigh，由加里·科尔[Gary Cole]饰演）时，金女士说，“你只能见到他们接吻，经常接吻，并感到其中深情款款。接吻是更加传统和保守的爱情表达形式。”
Still, she understood that viewers might wonder why the couple has not yet been seen having sex. “Production difficulties got in the way,” she said.
不过，她也理解，观众们可能会奇怪：怎么迟迟不见这对夫妇做爱？“啊，这是因为制作上有各种困难啦，”她说。