So Republicans may have decided to raise the debt ceiling without conditions attached — the details still aren’t clear. Maybe that’s the end of that particular extortion tactic, but maybe not, because, at best, we’re only looking at a very short-term extension. The threat of hitting the ceiling remains, especially if the politics of the shutdown continue to go against the G.O.P.
现在看来，共和党人或许已经决定无条件提高举债上限了，不过相关细节尚不明确。这可能是这种勒索战术的终结，但也可能不是，因为我们目前看到的只是期限很短的提高。触及举债上限的隐患仍旧存在，如果政府停摆的政治后果依然对共和党不利，那就更是如此。
So what are the choices if we do hit the ceiling? As you might guess, they’re all bad, so the question is which bad choice would do the least harm.
那么，如果我们真的触及举债上限，将面临怎样的选择呢？或许你可以猜到，所有的选择都很糟糕。而问题在于，哪种糟糕的选项造成的伤害最少。
Now, the administration insists that there are no choices, that if we hit the debt limit the U.S. government will go into general default. Many people, even those sympathetic to the administration, suspect that this is simply what officials have to say at this point, that they can’t give Republicans any excuse to downplay the seriousness of what they’re doing. But suppose that it’s true. What would a general default look like?
眼下，奥巴马政府强调，我们没有任何选择，假如触及举债上限，美国政府将陷入整体违约的境地。许多人，甚至包括政府的同情者在内，都怀疑官员们只是在此时此刻不得不这样说而已，因为不能给共和党任何借口淡化其所作所为的严重后果。不过，就算的确没有选择吧，那么整体违约又会是怎样的情形呢？
A report last year from the Treasury Department suggested that hitting the debt ceiling would lead to a “delayed payment regime”: bills, including bills for interest due on federal debt, would be paid in the order received, as cash became available. Since the bills coming in each day would exceed cash receipts, this would mean falling further and further behind. And this could create an immediate financial crisis, because U.S. debt — heretofore considered the ultimate safe asset — would be reclassified as an asset in default, possibly forcing financial institutions to sell off their U.S. bonds and seek other forms of collateral.
财政部去年的一份报告显示，触及举债上限将导致政府进入“延迟付款状态”(delayed payment regime)：在手头有现金时，按照收到账单的先后顺序进行支付，其中也包括国债利息账单。而每天收到的账单总金额会超过现金收入，这就意味着欠款越来越多。这种状况可能会立即引发金融危机，因为此前被看做最后的安全资产的美国国债，会被评定为违约资产，有可能迫使金融机构抛售美国国债，并寻求其他形式的抵押品。
That’s a scary prospect. So many people — especially, but not only, Republican-leaning economists — have suggested that the Treasury Department could instead “prioritize”: It could pay off bonds in full, so that the whole burden of the cash shortage fell on other things. And by “other things,” we largely mean Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, which account for the majority of federal spending other than defense and interest.
这样的前景非常可怕。所以很多人（尤其是亲共和党的经济学家，但不仅限于这些人）提出，财政部可以换个做法，“区分轻重缓急”：它可以全额兑付国债，从而让现金短缺的压力落在其他事情上面。至于“其他事情”，指的是社会安全福利(Social Security)、联邦医疗保险(Medicare)和联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)，除了国防和利息费用之外，它们在联邦政府的支出中占了大头儿。
Some advocates of prioritization seem to believe that everything will be O.K. as long as we keep making our interest payments. Let me give four reasons they’re wrong.
某些支持区分轻重缓急的人似乎相信，只要我们一直支付利息，一切就会安然无恙。我要给出四点原因，证明他们错了。
First, the U.S. government would still be going into default, failing to meet its legal obligations to pay. You may say that things like Social Security checks aren’t the same as interest due on bonds because Congress can’t repudiate debt, but it can, if it chooses, pass a law reducing benefits. But Congress hasn’t passed such a law, and until or unless it does, Social Security benefits have the same inviolable legal status as payments to investors.
首先，美国政府仍然会违约，不能依法履行付款责任。你可能会说，社会安全福利开支之类的东西和应付的国债利息不同，因为国会无法拒付国债，但它如果愿意，可以批准一项法案，削减福利。但是国会尚未批准这样的法案，除非它真的批准了，否则社会安全福利就和应该付给投资者的款项一样，具有不可侵犯的法律地位。
Second, prioritizing interest payments would reinforce the terrible precedent we set after the 2008 crisis, when Wall Street was bailed out but distressed workers and homeowners got little or nothing. We would, once again, be signaling that the financial industry gets special treatment because it can threaten to shut down the economy if it doesn’t.
其次，我们在2008年的危机中开了一个糟糕的先例，当时，华尔街得到了政府的救助，而深陷困境的工薪阶层和购房者却所获甚少，甚至一无所获。现在如果优先支付利息，只会重蹈覆辙。我们会再一次发出这样的信号：金融业能享有特别待遇，因为如果得不到，它就能以拖垮整个经济相要挟。
Third, the spending cuts would create great hardship if they go on for any length of time. Think Medicare recipients turned away from hospitals because the government isn’t paying claims.
再次，无论时间长短，削减开支都会给人们带来很多磨难。设想一下：由于政府不再支付报销款，参加了联邦医疗保险的患者无法在医院里就诊。
Finally, while prioritizing might avoid an immediate financial crisis, it would still have devastating economic effects. We’d be looking at an immediate spending cut roughly comparable to the plunge in housing investment after the bubble burst, a plunge that was the most important cause of the Great Recession of 2007-9. That by itself would surely be enough to push us into recession.
最后，区分付款的优先次序或许可以避免金融危机立即爆发，但仍然会带来灾难性的经济影响。届时我们需要考虑即刻削减开支，这种做法与泡沫破裂后房地产市场大跌的影响大体相当，后者是造成2007年至2009年大衰退(Great Recession)的最重要原因。单单这么做，就足以把我们推进衰退的深渊。
And it wouldn’t end there. As the U.S. economy went into recession, tax receipts would fall sharply, and the government, unable to borrow, would be forced into a second round of spending cuts, worsening the economic downturn, reducing receipts even more, and so on. So even if we avoid a Lehman Brothers-style financial meltdown, we could still be looking at a slump worse than the Great Recession.
而且事情不会到此为止。随着美国经济陷入衰退，税收收入也会大幅下降，而政府已经无法举债，那就只能被迫再次削减开支，从而造成经济状况继续恶化、税收收入继续下降等等后果。所以，即便可以避免一场雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)式的金融危机，我们还是会迎来一场比大衰退还要糟糕的经济衰退。
So are there any other choices? Many legal experts think there is another option: One way or another, the president could simply choose to defy Congress and ignore the debt ceiling.
那我们还有什么别的选择吗？许多法律专家认为还有一个办法：不管是以怎样的方式，总统其实可以选择违抗国会，无视举债上限。
Wouldn’t this be breaking the law? Maybe, maybe not — opinions differ. But not making good on federal obligations is also breaking the law. And if House Republicans are pushing the president into a situation where he must break the law no matter what he does, why not choose the version that hurts America least?
这样做不会违反法律吗？也许会，也许不会——人们的观点各不相同。但不履行联邦政府的义务同样会违反法律。假如众议院共和党人把总统推到了无论怎么做都会违法的境地，为什么不选择一种对美国伤害最小的做法呢？
There would, of course, be an uproar, and probably many legal challenges — although if I were a Republican, I’d worry about, in effect, filing suit to stop the government from paying seniors’ hospital bills. Still, as I said, there are no good choices here.
当然，这会引起一片哗然，还可能面临许多法律上的挑战——不过，我如果是共和党人，如果的确要提起诉讼阻止政府为老年人支付医疗费用，我会感到不安的。还是我说过的那句话，现在没有什么好的选择。
So what will happen if and when we hit the debt ceiling? Let’s hope we don’t find out.
那么，如果我们触及举债上限，到底会发生什么事？但愿我们不必真的知道。