The assault on the Paris offices of Charlie Hebdo, a French newspaper that has repeatedly satirized religion, was one of the deadliest in a history of violent retributions or threats against the media over the mockery of Islam.
媒体因为嘲讽伊斯兰教而遭受武力报复或威胁的历史由来已久，《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)巴黎办公室遭遇的袭击则是迄今为止死亡人数最多的一次。这家法国报纸曾频繁发表宗教讽刺内容。
The responses to perceived offenses have included assassinations of journalists and writers and attacks on the institutions that published their work. The responses also have broadened in recent years, targeting bloggers and Internet videos.
宗教人士在感觉被冒犯之后做出的回应包括，刺杀相关记者和作家，袭击出版机构。最近几年，报复行动的范围扩大，博客作者和网络视频也成为了他们的目标。
While all religions have committed violent acts and issued threats against insults, Islam is considered especially sensitive, partly because of strict prohibitions on the rendering of images of the Prophet Muhammad and other religious depictions.
所有的宗教面对不敬都采取过暴力行动或发出威胁，但伊斯兰教被外界认为尤其敏感，部分原因是，伊斯兰教严格禁止使用先知穆罕默德的形象以及其他对这一宗教的描述。
In a number of countries where Islam is the prevailing religion, such insults are crimes, some punishable by death.
在以伊斯兰教为主要信仰的多个国家，此类亵渎行为都属于犯罪，有时甚至要面临死刑的惩罚。
Here are some of the notable attacks over the past few decades:
以下是过去几十年一些著名的袭击事件：
February 1989 — Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, then the supreme leader of Iran, issues a death sentence against Salman Rushdie, author of “The Satanic Verses,” for blaspheming Islam, forcing Mr. Rushdie into hiding. Others are also targeted for roles in publishing translations of the book, including Japanese and Italian translators who are stabbed, one fatally.
1989年2月——时任伊朗最高领导人阿亚图拉·鲁霍拉·霍梅尼(Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini)判处《撒旦诗篇》(The Satanic Verses)的作者萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)死刑，罪名是亵渎伊斯兰教，拉什迪被迫躲了起来。还有一些人把参与该书译本出版的人作为目标，该书的日文译者和意大利文译者遇袭，其中一人被刺死。
June 1992 — Farag Fouda, a columnist for the Egyptian weekly magazine October, is fatally wounded by an assassin from a Muslim extremist group over Mr. Fouda’s outspoken opposition to religious fundamentalism.
1992年6月——埃及周刊《十月》(October)的专栏作者法拉杰·富达(Farag Fouda)遇刺身亡，原因是富达曾公开表达对宗教原教旨主义的反对，刺杀者来自一个穆斯林极端组织。
November 2004 — Theo van Gogh, a Dutch filmmaker and provocative television host, is slain on an Amsterdam street by a Moroccan Dutchman to avenge what the killer regarded as Mr. Van Gogh’s anti-Islamic work. Mr. Van Gogh had collaborated with Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Somali refugee-turned-Dutch politician, on “Submission: Part 1,” a short film in which verses of the Quran were written on the bodies of naked women to protest their treatment by men. Ms. Hirsi Ali received police protection after the film was shown on Dutch television, but Mr. Van Gogh had refused such protection.
2004年11月——荷兰电影导演、言行挑衅的电视节目主持人特奥·梵高(Theo van Gogh)在阿姆斯特丹的大街上被一名摩洛哥裔荷兰人杀害，凶手认为梵高的作品反对伊斯兰而对其进行了报复。梵高曾在短片《服从：第一部》(Submission: Part 1)中与曾是索马里难民的荷兰政坛人物阿雅安·哈尔西·阿里(Ayaan Hirsi Ali)有过合作。该片中，《古兰经》(Quran)的经文被写在了女性的裸体上，以抗议男性对待她们的方式。影片在荷兰电视台上播出后，哈尔西·阿里得到了警方的保护，但梵高拒绝了这种保护。
September 2005 — The publication of cartoons lampooning the Prophet Muhammad in Jyllands-Posten, a Danish newspaper, inspire a wave of replications by other newspapers and death threats against the cartoonists and others deemed responsible. Charlie Hebdo republished those cartoons.
2005年9月——丹麦《日德兰邮报》(Jyllands-Posten)刊登了讽刺先知穆罕默德的漫画，引发了其他报纸的转载浪潮，相关漫画家和其他一些被认为应对此事负责的人收到了死亡威胁。《查理周报》也转载了那些漫画。
September 2006 — Masked gunmen abduct and behead Mohammed Taha Mohammed Ahmed, the editor in chief of Al Wifaq, a Sudanese newspaper, after he d angered Islamists by publishing an article about the Prophet Muhammad.
2006年9月——蒙面枪手绑架了苏丹报纸《联邦》(Al Wifaq)的主编穆罕默德·塔哈·穆罕默德·艾哈迈德(Mohammed Taha Mohammed Ahmed)并将其斩首。早前，他因为发表了一篇有关先知穆罕默德的文章而激怒了伊斯兰教主义者。
September 2012 — “The Innocence of Muslims,” a vulgar American-made video about Muhammad that was spread via the Internet, leads to waves of violent protests against United States embassies around the world, and is considered a contributing element to the attack on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, that killed four Americans, including the ambassador.
2012年9月——一则美国人制作的粗劣视频《穆斯林的无知》(The Innocence of Muslims)在互联网上传开。有关穆罕默德的这段视频，在全球引发了针对美国大使馆的暴力抗议浪潮，并被认为是导致美国位于利比亚班加西的外交驻地遇袭的原因之一。那场袭击导致四名美国人死亡，包括一名大使。