There’s currently a bronze statue of a little girl standing in front of the charging bull on Wall Street.
现在在华尔街，一个小女孩的铜像站在了向前冲的公牛前面。
It really does have a great look — all the laws of mass and motion aside, you feel pretty confident the bull is going to wind up backing down. And it reminds you that while marching is important, sometimes you can make a difference by standing still.
它看上去真的很棒——各种质量和运动规律抛开不谈，你明显感到公牛最后要退缩。它提醒你，虽然向前冲很重要，但有时候你可以通过坚守在原地来改变局面。
The Wall Street girl celebrates all the people who resisted by staying in place. A little bit to the north one of my all-time favorite heroines, Elizabeth Jennings Graham, won a place in history by refusing to move an inch. An African-American schoolteacher, Graham was on her way to play the organ at a church service in 1854, when her streetcar’s conductor demanded she get off and wait for a car for colored people.
华尔街女孩是对所有通过坚守原地的方式来进行抵抗的人的赞颂。在略微靠北的位置上，我毕生最爱的女英雄伊丽莎白·詹宁斯·格雷厄姆(Elizabeth Jennings Graham)也因为寸步不让而在历史上赢得了一席之地。她是一名非裔教师，1854年的一天，她前往教堂演奏管风琴，在乘坐有轨电车的时候，售票员要求她下车，去等有色人种专用车辆。
Unlike the little bronze girl on Wall Street, she did not stand up and put her hands on her hips, since that would have facilitated her removal. She stayed sitting, hugging the window, until she was dragged away kicking. She found a lawyer, filed a lawsuit, won the suit, and gave New York City integrated mass transportation a century before Rosa Parks held her ground.
和华尔街的青铜小女孩不同的是，她没有站起来把手叉在腰间，因为那会令她轻松被拖走。她继续坐在，抱着车窗，直到挣扎着被人拖走。然后她找到律师，提起诉讼，并赢得了诉讼，从此纽约的大众运输不再分肤色，一个世纪后，才有罗莎·帕克斯(Rosa Parks)的拒不让座。
Marches are a great demonstration of solidarity: How many people will be telling their grandchildren they were at the women’s march after the Trump inauguration? But the little girl is a nice reminder that even if a crowd isn’t available, you have to do what you can. Even if it means standing down a bull, or refusing to get off a trolley.
游行能很好地展示人们团结一心的程度：有多少人会告诉孙辈，自己参加了特朗普就职仪式结束后的女性游行？但这个小女孩很好地提醒了我们，即便势单力薄，你也必须做自己力所能及的事情，哪怕这意味着站在一头公牛面前，或是拒绝从有轨电车上下来。