WASHINGTON — President Obama’s decision on Wednesday to radically shift United States policy toward Cuba is the latest and most striking example of a president unleashed from the hesitancy that characterized much of his first six years in office. It follows decisions by Mr. Obama to defy Republicans on immigration, climate change policy, the regulation of the Internet and negotiations with Iran.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统正在摆脱执政六年的大部分时间里表现出的犹豫不决，周三他决定大幅改变美国对古巴政策，成为这种转变的最新且最令人震惊的例子。在此之前，奥巴马决定拒绝在移民、气候变化政策、互联网管制及伊朗谈判问题上向共和党人做出让步。
Gone are the cautious political calculations that consigned contentious issues to secondary status. Mr. Obama is instead pushing aggressively on his promises and ignoring his opponents in the process.
那种将争议性问题放到次要位置的谨慎政治考量，已经全然不见。奥巴马转而积极推进，兑现承诺，并在这个过程中无视反对声音。
“He’s going down a checklist of thorny, longstanding problems, and he’s doing whatever he can to tackle them,” said David Axelrod, a former senior adviser. “These are things that have been tearing at us for decades and generations. My sense is his feeling is, I’m not going to leave office without doing everything I can to stop them.”
“他在照着一份长期存在的棘手问题的清单，竭尽所能地处理问题，”前高级顾问戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说，“这些问题在过去几十年困扰了几代人。我感觉，他的态度是，他会在下台前竭尽所能终结问题。”
As a candidate in 2008, Mr. Obama was scorned by his Republican opponent, Senator John McCain of Arizona, for his pledge to meet with Raúl Castro, the president of Cuba, “at a time and place of my choosing.” Mr. Obama said at the time that if Cuba took steps toward democracy and released all political prisoners “we will take steps to begin normalizing relations.”
奥巴马在参与2008年总统大选时承诺，他会“选择时间与地点”会见古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)，并因此遭到共和党对手、亚利桑那州参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)的嘲笑。奥巴马当时表示，如果古巴采取举措走向民主，释放所有政治犯，“我们将采取行动，开启同古巴关系正常化进程”。
For six years, Mr. Obama made little progress on an issue fraught with political passions and uncertainty, especially in Florida, an important swing state. The only evidence of any change included a brief handshake with Mr. Castro at Nelson Mandela’s funeral last year and some minor changes to the Cuba embargo, allowing Cuban-Americans to send more money home.
过去六年中，奥巴马在这个充满政治意味与不确定性的问题上几乎没有取得进展，特别是在佛罗里达州这个重要的摇摆州。唯一能够说明形势有所改变的迹象，就是奥巴马去年在纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)葬礼上与劳尔·卡斯特罗握手的举动，以及针对古巴的禁运举措的微小变化——提升古巴裔美国人向古巴汇款的上限。
Now, with no election on the horizon and his legacy in mind, Mr. Obama has decided to go big on one of America’s most vexing foreign policy issues, establishing diplomatic relations with Cuba and doing what he can without congressional action to all but end the 1960 embargo on the island nation.
如今，不用参加选举，再考虑到自己的政治遗产，奥巴马决定尽力解决最令美国苦恼的外交政策问题，与古巴建立外交关系，在国会不采取行动的情况下，尽他所能基本上解除美国自1960年开始对这个岛国采取的贸易禁令措施。
“When I came into office, I promised to re-examine our Cuba policy,” Mr. Obama said in remarks to the nation on Wednesday from the Cabinet Room in the White House. “I do not believe we can keep doing the same thing for over five decades and expect a different result.”
“当我上台执政时，我承诺重新审视我们对古巴的政策，”奥巴马周三在白宫内阁会议室(Cabinet Room)面向全国发表讲话时说。“我觉得我们不能五十多年不做任何改变，还期待会有不同的结果。”
The president’s unilateral action on Cuba fits a pattern that Mr. Obama has established in the twilight of his presidency. Frustrated by congressional inaction and Republican efforts to block legislation, the president has increasingly pushed the limits of his executive authority in domestic and international policy making.
奥巴马在古巴问题上采取单边行动，这符合他在执政晚期形成的模式。国会的不作为，以及共和党阻挠立法的举措，让奥巴马感到不满，他在不断挑战国内及国际政策制定方面的行政权力极限。
It is a go-it-alone approach that anticipates — and largely ignores — angry responses from his critics. On Wednesday, they were out in force: Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, called the president’s move “disgraceful,” calling it “just another concession to a tyranny.” Some other Cuban-Americans were equally angry. Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, said Mr. Obama had “vindicated the brutal behavior of the Cuban government.”
这种单边行动预计会引发——在很大程度上也会忽视——针对他的批评人士的愤怒反应。他们在周三纷纷采取行动：佛罗里达州共和党参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)称总统的举措“非常可耻”，“是对暴政的又一次妥协”。一些古巴裔美国人同样也非常愤怒。新泽西州民主党参议员罗伯特·梅嫩德斯(Robert Menendez)表示，奥巴马“维护了古巴政府的残暴行为”。
The president appears willing to weather such criticism. Mr. Menendez, who has been the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, will lose that post when Republicans take control next year, making him less vital as an ally in Congress. Criticism from Republicans like Mr. Rubio is seen as par for the course among White House aides, who often shrug when it arrives.
奥巴马似乎愿意承受这种批评。一直担任参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)主席的梅嫩德斯，在明年共和党掌握参议院后会失去这一职位，作为国会里的盟友，他的地位将不再那么重要。对于白宫助手而言，来自卢比奥等共和党的批评早已司空见惯。每次受到指责，助手们都会不以为意。
Although last month’s midterm elections were a victory for Republicans, who seized control of the Senate and added to their majority in the House, the results appear to have only accelerated the president’s use of regulatory, diplomatic and executive authority.
尽管共和党在上个月的中期选举中获得了胜利，但这些结果似乎反而加速了奥巴马运用管制、外交和行政等权力的速度。共和党已经取得参议院的控制权，并增加了在众议院的优势。
In 2007, Mr. Obama promised as a presidential candidate to push for an overhaul of the nation’s immigration laws, saying that “we must assert our values and reconcile our principles as a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws.”
2007年，作为总统候选人的奥巴马曾承诺将推动美国移民法的全面改革。他声称：“我们必须坚持我们的价值观，对我们的原则进行调整，使之符合一个移民国家和法治国家的要求。”
“That is a priority I will pursue from my very first day,” he added.
他还说，“从执政的第一天起，这就将是我的首要任务。”
Instead, the White House put off consideration of immigration legislation, eventually making a push after Mr. Obama was re-elected in 2012. It was not until last month that Mr. Obama decided to act on his own, taking actions that will allow as many as five million undocumented people to work in the country legally without the threat of deportation.
不过，白宫搁置了对移民法规的考虑，最终在奥巴马于2012年重新当选之后，开始加大处理此事的力度。直到上个月，奥巴马才决定单方面采取行动，他的举动将使多达500万无证件移民能在美国合法工作，而不必担心会被驱逐。
The president has also recently stepped up his actions to combat climate change after failing to win congressional support for cap-and-trade legislation early in his presidency. This year, he negotiated a climate agreement with China, and he is pushing ahead with tough new regulations on coal-fired power plants.
由于奥巴马未能在执政早期获得国会对“总量控制和交易”(cap-and-trade)法规的支持，他最近还加强了自己在对抗气候变化方面的行动力度。今年，他与中国商议制定了一项气候协议；此外，他还在大力推行针对燃煤电厂的一些新的严格管制措施。
His decision to push for negotiations with Iran in an attempt to limit Tehran’s nuclear capabilities — over the strong objections of some conservatives — came years after Mr. Obama promised such engagement during the 2008 presidential campaign.
他决定推动与伊朗的谈判进程，以限制德黑兰的核能力——尽管有些保守派竭力反对。几年前，奥巴马在2008年总统竞选期间，曾承诺要采取这样的行动。
If the president’s critics thought he might have decided to abandon some of his early campaign promises, Mr. Obama seems intent on proving them wrong.
如果说奥巴马的批评者认为，他可能已经放弃之前的一些竞选承诺，那么奥巴马似乎有意想证明他们错了。
“When we got there, we had an epic economic crisis and two wars to deal with,” Mr. Axelrod said. “It wasn’t as if he had the bandwidth or free rein to pursue every one of the issues he felt were important.”
“当时，我们要处理一场前所未有的经济危机和两场战争，”阿克塞尔罗德说。“他没有足够的资源或行动自由去处理自己认为重要的每件事。”
Like the Cuba decision, Mr. Obama’s actions on immigration, Iran and climate change have generated rancorous protest from critics. In the past, the reaction might have been enough to make the president and his top aides hold back.
和关于古巴的决定一样，奥巴马在移民、伊朗问题和气候变化方面所采取的行动受到了批评人士的激烈抵抗。放在过去，这种反应或许已经足以使奥巴马及其高级助手望而却步。