A svelte eight-room simplex that blends classic Museum Mile elegance, European élan and the open-ended entertainment flow of a luxury downtown loft is poised to enter the market at $13.5 million.
一套户型修长、包括八个房间的单层公寓(simplex)，结合了经典的博物馆大道(Museum Mile)的优雅、欧洲的热情活力，以及一套市中心豪华跃层公寓所拥有的无限赏心悦目。它正蓄势待发，即将以1350万美元（约合人民币8181.8万元）的价格进入房地产市场。
Six years ago, the Extell Development Company completed the conversion of the former Stanhope Hotel, a 1926 Rosario Candela jewel box at East 81st Street opposite the Metropolitan Museum of Art, to 26 luxurious condop apartments — maintenance charges include rental fees for the building’s 150-year land lease.
六年前，Extell开发公司完成了前斯坦霍普酒店(Stanhope Hotel)的改造工程，把坐落在东81街的大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)对面、建于1926年的一栋罗萨里奥·坎德拉(Rosario Candela)珠宝盒式大楼，改造成为一座含有26套租售混合型(condop)高端公寓的建筑——物业费中包括了这栋大楼为期150年的地租费。
The three-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath residence, No. 6S, which has monthly carrying costs of $18,173 and shares the sixth floor and a private elevator landing with just one other unit, underwent a further two-year renovation and personalization once the current sellers, Robert and Cécile Rosner, bought it as a sponsor unit in 2009 and commissioned the architect David McAlpin to customize it. After spending the previous decade in Paris, Mrs. Rosner said, the couple had wanted to return to the Museum Mile neighborhood, where they had lived before their stint in Europe, but preferred a pristine setting.
这套包括三间卧室和三间半浴室的公寓，门牌号是6S。其每月的持有成本为18173美元（约合人民币11万元），整个六层只有它和另外一套公寓，两户还共用一个私家电梯间。现任房东罗伯特和塞西尔·罗斯纳(Robert and Cécile Rosner)是在2009年买下的这套开发商公寓（sponsor unit，指直接从开发商手上购买的公寓，有些不带装修。这类房源比较少见，价格也比一般合作公寓高——译注），并委托建筑设计师大卫·麦卡尔平(David McAlpin)进行定制设计。此后，这套公寓又经过了两年时间的翻新和个性化装修。在巴黎生活了十年后，塞西尔·罗斯纳说，他们夫妻俩想搬回博物馆大道的社区生活，那是他们逗留欧洲之前住过的地方。但是他们比较想要朴素一点的房间陈设。
“We wanted a new apartment in a timeless building,” she said of their desire to create “a chic and sleek downtown sensibility in an iconic uptown setting.” The former Stanhope provided a perfect 4,357-square-foot blank canvas framed by the classical architecture they favored.
“我们想在一栋历史悠久的老建筑里找一套新公寓，”她谈论起他们的愿望——“在经典的上城住宅区内，缔造一种时髦而气派的市中心的氛围。”这栋前斯坦霍普酒店，为他们提供了一幅4357平方英尺（约404.8平方米）的完美空白画布，就装在这栋他们钟爱的经典建筑画框中。
The 12-by-10-foot gallery, entered through double doors, was retained, but “for lifestyle reasons” they removed the interior wall that had separated the living and dining rooms, to create a large living room and library that share 41 feet of Fifth Avenue frontage brightened by three sets of six-over-six paned double-hung windows facing west toward the Met. Glass panels serve as transparent room dividers between the formal 18-by-27-foot living section and the more casual 18-by-14 library/entertainment area, whose southernmost window offers a glimpse of Central Park. The floors are bleached wood in a chevron pattern, and modern gallery lighting was recessed into the ceilings to highlight their collection of contemporary art.
在一扇双开门之后，一条12x10英尺（约合3.7x3.1米）见方的长廊保持了原样。但是出于“生活方式上的原因”，他们拆除了分隔客厅与餐厅的那堵内墙，辟出一间宽敞的客厅兼书房。这片空间占据了41英尺（约12.5米）的第五大道临街建筑线，并利用三扇上下各有六个窗格的双悬窗采光。这几扇窗都朝西，面对着大都会博物馆。在正规的18x27英尺（约合5.5x8.2米）客厅区与更为休闲的18x14英尺（约合5.5x4.3米）阅读/娱乐区之间，设置了一对玻璃嵌板作为透明隔断。从后者最南端的窗户可以一眼看见中央公园(Central Park)。公寓地板是人字形花纹的漂白木，现代化的走廊照明采用了隐蔽式的天花板灯光设计，以突出他们收藏的现代艺术品。
A glass wall functions as an interior picture window that provides the unusual 25-by-13-foot chef’s eat-in kitchen with museum views. The glass separates yet does not isolate the front living spaces from the cooking space, which has an oversize matte stainless-steel tile floor, an immense black matte granite island, white Smallbone cabinetry, Sub-Zero refrigeration and wine storage, and Gaggenau appliances that include a steamer set into the granite countertop. A window faces east over the rear courtyard, and the sink is strategically placed in front of the glass wall that faces the library.
一面用作室内风景窗的玻璃墙，让这间不同寻常的25x13英尺（约7.6x3.9米）专业级餐厅式厨房(eat-in kitchen)可以看见博物馆的景致。这面玻璃墙将公寓前半部的客厅与后半部的厨房分隔开，却未完全隔离。厨房里铺着一块超大尺寸的哑光面不锈钢地板，还有一座巨大的黑色哑光花岗岩岛台，白色Smallbone橱柜，Sub-Zero冰箱和红酒柜，以及嘉格纳(Gaggenau)的厨具电器，其中包括一个装在花岗岩台面上的蒸锅。另有一扇朝东的窗户可以俯瞰后院，而水槽颇有匠心地安在了面对书房的这面玻璃墙前方。
“It opens views to the museum and re-emphasizes the loftlike flow of the front of the apartment,” Mrs. Rosner wrote in an email from Paris, where the couple have an apartment.
“这套公寓可以观看到博物馆，而且一再突出了公寓前半部分的跃层式特色，”罗斯纳在一封从巴黎发来的电子邮件中写道，夫妻俩在那里还有一套公寓。
An original fifth bedroom, or den, adjacent to the kitchen was repurposed as a formal dining room, and a marble powder room is reached from the corridor off the gallery.
原有的第五间卧室或说小房间，就在厨房隔壁，现在改成了一间正式的餐厅。还有一间大理石的化妆室，可从长廊一侧的走道到达。
A winding hallway with in-baseboard LED ambient lighting leads to the bedroom wing, where two smaller rooms were combined to create a spacious 25-by-10-foot guest suite, and there is a second guest suite with southern and western exposures. Both have marble baths. The hallway terminates at the sumptuous master suite, which has his-and-hers walk-in closets, a marble bath with an oversize glass-enclosed walk-in rain shower, and a south-facing picture window.
一条弯曲的走廊通往一侧的卧室，墙基板内安装了LED氛围灯。卧室由两间较小的房间拼在一起，形成一间宽敞的25x10英尺（约7.6x3.0米）的客用套房。另一间客用套房是西南朝向。两间客用套房都有大理石浴室。这条走廊的尽头，通往豪华的主卧套间，内有分为男用和女用的走入式衣橱，一间带有超大走入式玻璃淋浴间的大理石浴室，以及一扇朝南的风景窗。
Sharon Baum of the Corcoran Group is the listing broker. Ms. Baum, who found the condop for the Rosners in 2009, said they decided to part with it because they have other homes in Florida, Paris, and Southampton, N.Y., and are refocusing their city priorities. Mr. Rosner is a president of Vestar Capital Partners, and Mrs. Rosner, who is French-born, is an interior designer.
柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)的莎伦·鲍姆(Sharon Baum)是这套公寓的卖方经纪人。2009年时，就是她为罗斯纳夫妇找到的这套公寓。鲍姆说，他们决定部分时间住在这套公寓里，因为他们在佛罗里达州、巴黎及纽约州的南安普敦市(Southampton)还有其它住处，并且还在重新确定他们的首选城市。罗伯特·罗斯纳是维斯塔投资公司(Vestar Capital Partners)的总裁，而他的法国太太是一位室内设计师。
“This apartment is in immaculate condition and impeccably decorated, in a building with wonderful service, and in a special neighborhood that speaks for itself,” Ms. Baum said. “Where else can you sit in your living room in the evening after the museum closes and the lights come on and have a bird’s-eye view of the masterpieces inside?”
“这套公寓的状况无可挑剔，装修也尽善尽美，公寓所在的大楼有周到的服务，而大楼所在的社区也显得十分特别，”鲍姆说，“别处还有什么地方，能让你在晚间博物馆闭馆、华灯初上之时，坐在自家客厅里鸟瞰博物馆内的那些杰作吗？”