HARBIN, China — Gao Yuxai, 26, bundled up in turquoise down and brown fur against the subzero temperatures of China’s northeast, darted around a display of sepia photographs on the walls of an old waiting room at the railway station here.
中国哈尔滨——哈尔滨火车站一间老旧的候车室里，在中国东北地区零度以下的严寒中，26岁的高玉霞（音译）身着蓝绿色的羽绒服和棕色皮草，扫视着陈列在几面墙上的一些黄褐色的老照片。
Smartphone aloft to snap photos, she was transfixed by the story unfolding before her.
她举起自己的智能手机拍照。眼前的故事让她惊呆了。
The exhibit cataloged the life of Ahn Jung-geun, a young Korean nationalist, who more than 100 years ago, assassinated an aging Japanese politician, the first overseer of Japan’s colony in Korea. Ms. Gao had never heard of Mr. Ahn — not many in China have — but she was impressed by his daring, striking at Japan by shooting the politician, Hirobumi Ito, at the rail station.
这次展览记述的是安重根(Ahn Jung-geun)的生平。100多年前，这个年轻的朝鲜民族主义者刺杀了年迈的日本政客、日本在朝鲜殖民地的首任统监。高玉霞从未听说过安重根——听说过他的中国人并不多——但却被安重根的勇气所打动。正是在这个火车站，安重根向那个名叫伊藤博文(Hirobumi Ito)的日本政客开了枪，借此打击日本。
“I’m indignant at Japan, and this man is a hero,” she said. “The things Japan has done lately has forced China and South Korea to launch an anti-Japanese campaign. This shows heroism has no borders.”
“我对日本感到很气愤，这个人是个英雄，”她说，“日本近来的行为迫使中国和韩国发起了一场反日运动。这表明，英雄主义是没有国界的。”
The Chinese government’s recently opened tribute to Mr. Ahn is more than just a historical exercise. In the escalating feud between China and Japan, the Chinese leadership is running an anti-Japanese public relations campaign at home and abroad that amplifies its case against Japan, once its colonizer — starting right here in Manchuria in 1931 — and now a lesser economic power anxious about China’s increasingly muscular maritime claims.
最近，中国政府开始歌颂安重根，目的不仅仅是重述历史。鉴于中日之间的争执愈演愈烈，中国领导人正在国内外进行一场反日公关运动。这场运动强化了中国反对日本的理由。日本曾占据中国的大片土地——那段时期始于1931年的东北满洲——现在的经济实力则不及中国。对于中国越来越强硬的海权主张，日本颇为焦虑。
Attempts by a newly emboldened China to claim islands and fishing areas long controlled by other nations in vast swathes of ocean have raised fears in several countries. But some of the worst tensions have erupted with Japan, which China has been trying to outmaneuver for months, in a dispute over islands in the East China Sea.
新近强硬起来的中国对广阔海域一些长期由其他国家控制的岛屿和渔场的主权主张引发了多个国家的担忧。不过，一些最紧张的局势却出现在中日之间。数月来，中国一直在采用种种策略，试图在围绕一些东海岛屿的争端中战胜日本。
China’s public relations push has focused on what it says are Japan’s false claims to those islands, as well as the December visit by Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, to a controversial war shrine.
中国公关运动的焦点是日本对那些岛屿的主权要求没有根据，此外还有日本首相于12月参拜靖国神社一事。这座有争议的神社供奉着日本的战争亡灵。
Dozens of Chinese ambassadors have criticized Japan in letters written to newspapers around the world. In one, the Chinese ambassador in London compared Japan to the evil Lord Voldemort in the Harry Potter series. At home, a cartoon in The Global Times, compared the Japanese to the Nazis, and relentless negative coverage of Japan has dominated the news programs of CCTV, the government channel.
许多中国大使在写给世界各地报纸的信中谴责了日本。在其中一封信中，驻伦敦的中国大使将日本比作哈利·波特(Harry Potter)系列小说中邪恶的伏地魔。在国内，《环球时报》刊发了将日本人比作纳粹的漫画，有关日本的大量负面报道也在官方电视频道央视的新闻节目中占据了主导地位。
The Foreign Ministry has also intensified its criticisms of the Japanese occupation of China during World War II. At a recent daily briefing for the press, the spokesman reminded everyone about Unit 731, the biological and chemical warfare research facility on the outskirts of Harbin used by the Japanese to conduct human experiments.
中国外交部也加大了对日本二战期间侵占中国历史的谴责力度。前不久的一次每日例行记者会上，外交部发言人提起了“731部队”。“731部队”是位于哈尔滨郊区的战时生化研究机构，日本当年曾通过该机构进行人体实验。
The complex is now a Harbin tourist attraction, a museum filled with crude medical equipment used by the Japanese.
如今，该设施变成了一个博物馆，成了哈尔滨的一个旅游景点，里面放满了日本人用过的粗糙医疗设备。
The memorial to Mr. Ahn, unveiled at the rail station in the heart of the city last month, has struck a special chord.
上月，安重根纪念馆在位于哈尔滨市中心的火车站开馆，引发了尤其强烈的共鸣。
“Previously there have been almost no sculptures or memorials for foreigners in Chinese territory,” said Lü Chao, a researcher at the Liaoning Academy of Social Sciences in Shenyang. “So this thing is out of the ordinary.”
“此前，中国领土上几乎没有外国人的雕塑或纪念馆，”位于沈阳的辽宁社会科学院的研究员吕超说，“因此，这件事非比寻常。”
The exhibit, in fact, is part of a larger geopolitical tug of war, as the United States attempts to force its squabbling allies, South Korea and Japan, to put up a united front in its battle for influence with China.
实际上，此次展览是一场更大的地缘政治博弈的一部分，背景是美国试图迫使彼此不和的盟友韩国和日本结成统一战线，协助自身与中国展开影响力争夺战。
South Korea’s leader, President Park Geun-hye, asked President Xi Jinping of China to honor her country’s hero during a meeting in Beijing last June.
去年6月，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在北京和中国国家主席习近平会晤，其间曾恳请后者向韩国的英雄致敬。
Relations between South Korea and Japan have never been warm. Tokyo declared Korea a protectorate in 1905, and officially annexed it in 1910 (a year after Mr. Ahn made his mark). The occupation was brutal, with Japan insisting Koreans take Japanese names and forcing many into hard labor.
韩国和日本一向关系不睦。日本于1905年将朝鲜宣布为保护国，并在1910年正式吞并了韩国（就在安崇根做出前述举动的一年以后）。占领韩国期间，日本实施了残酷的统治，坚持要求韩国人采用日本人名，并强迫许多韩国人做苦役。
But Ms. Park has been particularly frosty toward Mr. Abe, who has a long track record of trying to portray Japan’s wartime and imperial history with South Korea (and China) in a less negative light. Ms. Park has complained that, among other things, Tokyo has failed to fully own up to its actions against Korean and other women who were enslaved by the Japanese military as prostitutes during World War II.
不过，朴槿惠对安倍晋三的态度可谓尤其冷淡，后者长期尝试以不那么负面的评价来描述日本和韩国（以及中国）之间的战争史和帝国史。朴槿惠对日本表示了诸多抱怨，其中包括日本没有完全承认其在二战期间针对韩国和其他国家女性的暴行，这些女性受到日本军队的奴役，成了慰安妇。
Mr. Xi, who like the South Korean leader has refused to meet with Mr. Abe, quickly set about fulfilling Ms. Park’s request. The decision not only fits with the larger public relations push against Japan, it also allowed China, at least symbolically, to drive a wedge between America’s two most critical Asian allies.
习近平和朴槿惠一样拒绝了和安倍的会面，并且迅速着手满足朴槿惠的请求。建立安重根纪念馆的决定不仅和整体反日公关活动的需要相符，还让中国得以在美国最重要的两个亚洲盟友之间挑起不和，至少是可以象征性地做到这一点。
The memorial attracted the attention of the Abe government, as the chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, called Mr. Ahn “a terrorist” soon after it opened.
纪念馆引起了安倍政府的关注。就在开馆后不久，日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)称安重根是一名“恐怖分子”。
The memorial, by contrast, depicts Mr. Ahn as a scholarly, serious and brave freedom fighter.
与此相反，纪念馆把安重根刻画成了一名博学、认真而勇敢的自由斗士。
He was 29, well educated (in Confucian classics), and a member of the armed resistance against Japan when he decided to kill Mr. Ito, a four-time prime minister, and in Japanese history, generally depicted as a reformer.
安重根受过良好的（儒家典籍）教育，是一个武装抗日组织的成员，在29岁时决定刺杀曾四次担任日本首相的伊藤博文。在日本历史上，伊藤博文通常被刻画成一名改革者。
Before the assassination in 1909, Mr. Ahn and a group of fellow conspirators cut their fourth fingers and used the blood to write “Korean independence” in Chinese on a Korean national flag. He was then elected leader of the group of 12, which called itself the “Cut Finger Association.”
刺杀发生于1909年，在此之前，安重根和一队同谋者切下了自己的无名指，用血在一面韩国国旗上写下了“大韩独立”的汉字。之后，他被这支12人的队伍推选为首领，他们称自己是“断指同盟”。
Accounts from the period say that Mr. Ahn learned that Mr. Ito was planning to visit Harbin, then a boom town, to meet with the Russian finance minister, Vladimir Kokovtsov, to discuss their countries’ competing interests in Manchuria after the 1904-5 Russo-Japanese War.
来自那个时期的记录显示，安重根得知伊藤博文计划访问当时尚是一座新型城镇的哈尔滨，和俄国财政大臣弗拉基米尔‧科科夫佐夫(Vladimir Kokovtsov)会面，讨论两国经历了1904年至1905年日俄战争后在满洲里的利益冲突。
After shooting Mr. Ito three times in the chest, Mr. Ahn was captured by Russian soldiers. He was handed over to the Japanese in Manchuria, put on trial and executed on Feb. 14, 1910.
安重根朝伊藤博文的胸部开了三枪，之后被俄国士兵抓获。他被移交给满洲里的日本人，随后受到审判，并在1910年2月14日被处决。
“I didn’t do this as an individual, I did it as a soldier of the Korean Volunteer Army, and I did it for my motherland’s independence and for peace in the East,” says an inscription under a photo of Mr. Ahn at his trial.
“我不是以个人资格干此事的，而是以韩国义兵参谋中将的身份，为祖国的独立和东洋的和平而做的。”一张安重根庭审的照片上写着这样的题词。
Hua Zhengfeng, 36, a Chinese sports trainer wrapped in a mink coat, visited the memorial on a recent Sunday and exuded confidence about China’s trajectory.
不久前的一个周日，36岁的中国体育教练华争锋（音）于参观了纪念馆。他裹着貂皮大衣，对中国的发展道路信心满满。
He admired Mr. Ahn, he said, but said that unlike in those days, China was strong and, seemingly at odds with his government’s public relations push, no longer needed to worry about Japan.
他说他崇敬安重根，同时又说，和往日不一样的是，中国现在强大了，不再需要担心日本，这番话似乎和中国政府的公关宣传相悖。
“Ahn’s time was quite different to mine,” said Mr. Hua. “Japan is not dangerous now, Japan only flees. Compared to China, Japan is comparatively weak.”
华争锋说，“安重根的时代和我所在的时代很不一样。日本现在并不危险，它只会逃之夭夭。和中国相比，日本相对较弱。”