WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson are once again at odds over how to deal with nuclear-armed North Korea after Tillerson declared on Tuesday that the United States was ready to open talks with the North “without precondition.”
华盛顿——在国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)周二宣布美国已准备好与朝鲜“无先决条件”地开放沟通后，特朗普总统和蒂勒森就如何处理拥核的朝鲜一事矛盾再起。
The secretary’s comments were remarkably conciliatory for an administration that has repeatedly threatened North Korea with military action if it did not curb its missile and nuclear programs. And the White House waited only a few hours before distancing itself from the remarks.
对于这个再三以采取军事行动威胁朝鲜减少导弹和核项目的政府来说，国务卿的言论可谓是极其缓和。过了几个小时，白宫就跟此番言论撇清了关系。
In an unusual statement released to reporters on Tuesday evening, the press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said Trump’s position on North Korea had not changed — namely, that talks were pointless if the North’s leader, Kim Jong Un, continued to menace his neighbors.
在周二晚间向记者发布的一则非比寻常的声明中，白宫新闻发言人萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)表示，特朗普对朝立场不变——即，如果朝鲜领导人金正恩继续恐吓周边国家，谈话则毫无意义。
“North Korea is acting in an unsafe way not only toward Japan and South Korea, but the entire world,” she said. “North Korea’s actions are not good for anyone and certainly not good for North Korea.”
“朝鲜的危险举动不仅面向日本和韩国，还影响着全世界，”她说。“朝鲜的举动对任何人都不利，当然也对其自身不利。”
It was only the latest example of a public rift between the president and his chief diplomat over North Korea.
这只不过是总统和他的最高外交官在朝鲜问题上最近一次公开分歧的例证而已。
In October, Trump tweeted that Tillerson was “wasting his time” trying to open diplomatic lines to Pyongyang. But this time, the comments follow reports that the White House is laying the groundwork for the secretary’s departure from the State Department and his replacement by Mike Pompeo, the CIA director.
十月，特朗普在Twitter发贴称，蒂勒森对平壤用外交手段解决问题的尝试是在“浪费他的时间”。但这一次，相关评价是随着白宫正在为蒂勒森离开国务院、由中央情报局局长迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)接任铺平道路的报道而来。
White House officials were alarmed by Tillerson’s remarks, according to several people, fearing that they would sow confusion among allies after Trump rallied them behind a policy of “maximum pressure.”
据多人反映，蒂勒森的言论已经引起了白宫官员的警觉，担心这会在特朗普用“最大压力”政策团结起来的盟友间制造混乱。
Tillerson was speaking to the Atlantic Council in what was billed as a wrap-up of foreign-policy challenges in the administration’s first year.
蒂勒森对华盛顿大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)作了此次讲话，宣称是对政府第一年外交政策改变的总结。
Asked about the prospects for diplomacy with the North, he said, “We’re ready to talk anytime North Korea would like to talk, and we’re ready to have the first meeting without precondition.”
在被问及有关朝鲜的外交前景时，他表示，“我们可以在朝鲜想会谈的任何时候举行会谈。而且，我们做好了在没有前提条件的情况下举行第一次会面。”
“Let’s just meet and let’s — we can talk about the weather if you want,” he continued. “We can talk about whether it’s going to be a square table or a round table, if that’s what you’re excited about. But can we at least sit down and see each other face to face?”
“让我们先见面，你想的话，我们谈谈天气都可以，”他接着说。“我们可以讨论是方桌还是圆桌会议，如果这就是你感兴趣的。但我们能不能至少先坐下来，面对面见一见？”
To some extent, Tillerson was merely playing the role he has played throughout the administration’s confrontation with North Korea — the diplomat offering a softer line — while Trump and other White House officials warn about the consequences if North Korea does not back off.
某种程度上来说，蒂勒森只不过是扮演着他在政府与朝鲜的对峙之间一直以来所扮演的角色罢了——由外交官提出一个更温和的路线——而特朗普和其他白宫官员会去警告朝鲜他们不收手的后果。
But Tillerson indicated an urgency about getting to the table with North Korea, which officials said runs counter to the White House’s view that negotiations are unlikely to happen soon, given Kim’s repeated tests of nuclear devices and ballistic missiles.
但蒂勒森指明了与朝鲜展开会谈的紧迫性，而官方表示这与白宫的观点相悖，白宫认为，由于金正恩反复进行核设施和弹道导弹实验，近期开展商谈的可能性不大。
Tillerson did say that talks would only make sense if North Korea paused those tests.
蒂勒森也的确说过，只有当朝鲜暂停那些实验，谈话才有意义。
Still, his statements reverberated in Beijing, where South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, was meeting with Chinese leaders about North Korea.
但他的声明却在北京引起了反响，韩国总统文在寅正就朝鲜问题与中国领导人在北京举行会谈。
China has repeatedly urged the United States to meet with North Korea, proposing that the two sides agree to a “freeze-for-freeze” — freezing the North’s nuclear and missile tests in return for an agreement by the United States and South Korea to freeze joint military exercises.
中国再三敦促美国与朝鲜会谈，并提议双方同意“冻结换冻结”——冻结朝鲜核试验和导弹实验，以换取美韩同意冻结联合军演。
Russia welcomed Tillerson’s remarks, saying they were an improvement over “the confrontational rhetoric we have heard so far,” according to Dmitry Peskov, a spokesman for President Vladimir Putin.
据总统普京的发言人迪米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitry S. Peskov)称，俄罗斯欢迎蒂勒森的言论，并表示这相较于“目前所听到的咄咄逼人的措辞”是一种进步。
Adding to the muddled messages, Tillerson spoke a few hours after the national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, offered a more hard-line version of the administration’s policy. He warned that time was running out to avoid a military confrontation with North Korea, and that China needed to do more to squeeze the North economically.
乱上加乱的是，蒂勒森发表讲话几个小时前，国家安全顾问H·R·麦克马斯特中将(Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster)刚提出了一个态度更为强硬的政府政策。他警告，能避免与朝鲜产生武装冲突的时间不多了，并且中国需要在从经济上削弱朝鲜方面作出更大努力。
Speaking at a conference sponsored by a British think tank, Policy Exchange, McMaster singled out shipping companies that he said were smuggling goods to North Korea and helping it evade sanctions.
在一个由英国智库“政策交流”(Policy Exchange)赞助的会议上，麦克马斯特在发言中点了一些船运公司的名，称这些公司在向朝鲜走私货物，帮助其躲避制裁。
“A company whose ships would engage in that activity ought to be on notice that that might be the last delivery of anything they do for a long time, anywhere,” he said.
“任何有船只参与此类货运的公司要清楚，这或许将是他们在往后很长一段时间内的最后一次货运，不论运的什么，运往哪里，”他说道。
McMaster has been among the most hard-line among administration officials in his approach to North Korea, raising the prospect of preventive military strikes if the North appeared on the verge of launching a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the United States.
麦克马斯特对朝鲜的手段一直属于政府内最强硬的路线，提高了在朝鲜将要发射可打到美国的核弹时，美方先发制人进行军事打击的预期。
Tillerson, by contrast, has continued to push for openings to the North Korea — a strategy that people who know him said is rooted in his successful effort to free a detained American college student, Otto F. Warmbier, to the United States. Warmbier died days after his return from injuries suffered during his imprisonment in Pyongyang.
相比之下，蒂勒森地继续推动给朝鲜机会，据了解他的人说，这个策略源于他帮助遭拘禁的美国大学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)获释并回到美国的成功努力。在平壤遭受监禁期间，瓦姆比尔受重伤，回国数天后去世。
Analysts said there was nothing wrong with Tillerson’s emphasis on diplomacy, but that the conditions for any negotiation were critical. The United States has insisted that North Korea must relinquish its nuclear arsenal, which the North has steadfastly refused to do.
分析人士称，蒂勒森强调外交途径并没有任何不妥，但进行任何谈判的前提条件都至关重要。美国坚持，朝鲜必须放弃其核武库，而朝鲜对此予以坚定地拒绝。
“There’s a middle ground between setting ridiculous preconditions for negotiations, and accepting North Korea’s terms,” said Daniel R. Russel, who served as assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs in the Obama administration. “It’s very important that we not appear to be accepting North Korea’s terms for negotiations.”
“设定荒谬的谈判先决条件与全盘接受朝鲜的条件之间，有一个中间地带，”丹尼尔·R·拉塞尔(Daniel R. Russel)说，他曾在奥巴马政府担任负责东亚事务的助理国务卿。“我们不应该显得像是在接受朝鲜的谈判条件，这一点非常重要。”
Michael J. Green, a National Security Council official in the George W. Bush administration, said, “some communication and consultation with North Korea is appropriate. But there’s a big difference between that and a dramatic announcement about negotiations.”
曾在小布什政府国家安全委员会(National Security Council)担任官员的迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说，“与朝鲜保持一些交流和磋商是适当的。但那与戏剧性地发表关于谈判的消息完全不是一回事。”