TOKYO — The whole world confronts an unprecedented, grave and imminent threat from North Korea. On Sept. 3, the regime carried out a reprehensible nuclear test. Late last week, it launched a ballistic missile over my country, Japan, only two weeks after a similar missile launch. By repeatedly testing missiles — in violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions — Pyongyang has shown its reach now extends to the United States and Europe.
东京——朝鲜让全世界面临着史无前例的、严峻而又紧迫的威胁。9月3日，该政权进行了一场应该遭到谴责的核试验。上周晚些时候，它发射了一枚飞过我国上空的弹道导弹——就在进行一次类似的发射仅仅两周后。违背联合国安理会决议、反复进行导弹测试的平壤向外界表明，其导弹射程目前已拓展至美国和欧洲。
North Korea’s actions are an outright challenge to the international community. On Sept. 11, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution on a new round of strict sanctions that restrict member states from selling oil to the North, ban North Korean textile exports and ban member states from authorizing North Koreans to work abroad.
朝鲜的行为是对国际社会的公然挑衅。9月11日，联合国安理会全票通过实施新一轮严厉制裁的决议，限制联合国成员国向朝鲜出售石油，禁止朝鲜出口纺织品，禁止成员国给赴海外工作的朝鲜人开绿灯。
They are an important step, but the leadership in Pyongyang has consistently ignored previous resolutions. The international community must stay united and enforce the sanctions.
联合国安理会迈出了重要的一步，但其以往的决议向来不被平壤的领导层放在眼里。国际社会必须团结一致地实施制裁。
Here in northeast Asia, the North Korean threat has been real for more than a quarter-century. We face the threat of missiles — short and medium range — together with the possibility of chemical weapons attacks.
朝鲜在过去逾四分之一个世纪里真切地威胁着东北亚地区的安全。我们面临着短程和中程导弹的威胁，还有遭受化学武器袭击的可能性。
North Korea has targeted Japan in particular by abducting many innocent Japanese citizens, including a 13-year-old girl who was abducted in 1977. Most of them have been held in North Korea since the 1970s and 1980s.
通过绑架很多无辜的日本公民，其中包括于1977年被绑架的一名13岁女孩，朝鲜尤其将矛头对准了日本。自上世纪七八十年代以来，他们大多一直被扣留在朝鲜。
Everyone aspires to a peaceful solution to these challenges. And global solidarity is of utmost importance. Still, prioritizing diplomacy and emphasizing the importance of dialogue will not work with North Korea. History shows that concerted pressure by the entire international community is essential.
人人都希望以和平的方式化解这些问题。全球团结也至关重要。不过，以外交努力为先、强调对话的重要性，对朝鲜是不会起作用的。历史表明，整个国际社会有必要一致对朝鲜施压。
In the early 1990s, North Korea’s announcement to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and the International Atomic Energy Agency was a wake-up call. In response, Japan, the United States and South Korea engaged in dialogue with North Korea and agreed to construct two light-water reactors and to provide heavy fuel oil in exchange for freezing and ultimately dismantling its nuclear program. Japan, the United States and South Korea shouldered most of the financial burden, with the cooperation of Europe and other Asian countries.
1990年代初，朝鲜宣布退出《核不扩散条约》（Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty，简称NPT）和国际原子能机构（International Atomic Energy Agency，简称IAEA），让世界为之警醒。作为回应，日本、美国和韩国开启与朝鲜的对话，同意援建两座轻水反应堆，还同意提供重燃油，以换取朝方冻结并最终放弃其核计划。日、美、韩承担起大部分财务负担，并得到欧洲国家和亚洲其他国家的配合。
We know what happened next: Several years after the heavy fuel oil was delivered and construction started on the light-water reactors, North Korea admitted to having a uranium enrichment program in violation of the agreement.
我们都知道接下来发生了什么：在重燃油被交付给朝鲜、轻水反应堆援建工作开始数年后，朝鲜承认自己违反协议，拥有一个铀浓缩计划。
By the end of 2002, North Korea expelled I.A.E.A. inspectors, followed by an official withdrawal from the NPT in 2003. China and Russia then joined Japan, the United States and South Korea to create the six-party talks with the North. Pyongyang again agreed to the verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. But instead, it declared itself a nuclear power in 2005 and carried out a nuclear test in 2006. The five countries’ attempt to solve the problem through dialogue failed.
到2002年末，朝鲜驱逐了IAEA的核查人员，接着在2003年正式退出NPT。随后，中国和俄罗斯加入日、美、韩的行列，开启与朝鲜的六方会谈。平壤再次同意让朝鲜半岛实现可核查的无核化。但它却在2005年宣布自己是一个拥核国家，并在2006年开展了一次核试验。其他五国旨在通过对话解决朝鲜问题的努力宣告失败。
In short, while the international community provided North Korea with sanctions relief and support as “compensation” for its pledges, the regime ignored most of its commitments.
简而言之，虽然国际社会减轻了对朝鲜的制裁，还为其提供了支持，以“补偿”其所做的承诺，该政权却无视了自己的大部分承诺。
Considering this history and its continuing missile launches and nuclear tests, more dialogue with North Korea would be a dead end. Pyongyang would see more talks as proof that other countries succumbed to the success of its missile launches and nuclear tests. Now is the time to exert the utmost pressure on the North. There should be no more delays.
考虑到这段历史，以及朝鲜不断发射导弹、开展核试验的事实，与其进行更多对话只会是死路一条。平壤将把更多对话视为其导弹发射和核试验的成功令其他国家屈服的证据。现在是时候对朝鲜施加最大程度的压力了。一刻都耽误不得。
How could North Korea relentlessly pursue missile development and nuclear tests over almost half a century? How could North Korea, under successive United Nations sanctions for a decade, acquire enormous resources to obtain crude materials, components and powerful engines? Statistics show that there are countries, mainly in Asia, that continue trading with North Korea; and for some, as recently as in 2016, their trade even exceeded that of the previous year. According to the United Nations, foreign-made parts have been used in North Korea’s ballistic missiles. There are countries buying products and services from North Korea or accepting its workers. Front companies established in Asia enable North Korea access to foreign currencies.
朝鲜如何能在将近半个世纪的时间里不懈地寻求开展导弹研制工作和核试验？朝鲜如何能在联合国长达十年的一轮又一轮制裁之下获得大量资源，以获取原材料、零部件和强大的发动机？统计数据显示，有些国家，主要是亚洲国家，持续与朝鲜开展贸易；就在刚刚过去的2016年，有些国家的对朝贸易额甚至比前一年还高。联合国称，朝鲜的弹道导弹一直在使用产自海外的零部件。有些国家购买朝鲜的商品和服务，或者接收该国的工人。朝鲜还通过在亚洲地区开设挂名公司来获得外汇。
Japan has responded by reaffirming the ironclad Japan-United States alliance, and Japan has coordinated in lock step with the United States and South Korea. I firmly support the United States position that all options are on the table.
日本以巩固其坚不可摧的日美同盟作为回应，它还与美国、韩国步调一致地协调配合。我坚决支持美国的立场，即所有选择都在考虑范围以内。
As a response to the latest nuclear test, I value the swift and unanimous adoption of Security Council Resolution 2375 on Sept. 11, which puts significantly tougher sanctions on North Korea. But I stress that we must not be simply complacent with the adoption of these sanctions. We must thoroughly enforce the successive resolutions in order to prevent North Korea from obtaining the goods, technologies, funds and people to further develop its missiles and nuclear program.
作为对最新一次核试验的回应，安理会迅速全票通过2375号决议，极大地收紧对朝鲜的制裁，我认为它做得很好。但我要强调的是，我们不能仅仅满足于实施这些制裁。为了防止朝鲜获得其发展导弹计划和核计划所需的商品、技术、资金和人员，我们必须彻底贯彻历来的各项决议。
North Korea poses a serious threat and challenge to our world, and its actions flout the international nonproliferation regime. As swiftly as possible, we must make North Korea end its provocations, abandon its nuclear and ballistic missile development, and return the abductees in North Korea to their homes.
朝鲜给我们这个世界带来了严峻的威胁和挑战，它的行为是对世界核不扩散机制的蔑视。我们必须尽快让朝鲜停止挑衅，放弃发展其核项目和弹道导弹项目，并送那些被其绑架的人回家。
Solidarity and concerted effort among the international community, together with the effective role of the United Nations, are more vital than ever.
国际社会的团结一致以及联合国的积极作用，比以往任何时候都重要。