When the world chess champion Garry Kasparov was beaten in 1997 by Deep Blue, an I.B.M. supercomputer, it was considered to be a major milestone in the march toward artificial intelligence. It probably shouldn’t have been. As complex as chess is, it’s easy to see that its rules can be translated into algorithms so that computers, when they eventually got enough processing power, could crunch through billions of possible moves and past games. Deep Blue’s calculations were a fundamentally different process, most people would say, from the “real” thinking and intuition a human player would use.
1997年，国际象棋世界冠军加里·卡斯帕罗夫(Garry Kasparov)输给了“深蓝”(Deep Blue)，一台由IBM公司生产的超级电脑。这件事被认为是实现人工智能的漫长历程上的一座里程碑。然而也许不该如此。国际象棋的确复杂，但不难理解，它的规则可以被翻译成算法，因而一旦电脑拥有了足够的处理能力，就可以处理数十亿种可能的招数和以往的比赛。大多数人会说，与人类棋手会使用的“真正”的思考和洞察力相比，“深蓝”所做的计算在本质上是一个完全不同的过程。
Clive Thompson, a Brooklyn-based technology journalist, uses this tale to open “Smarter Than You Think,” his judicious and insightful book on human and machine intelligence. But he takes it to a more interesting level. The year after his defeat by Deep Blue, Kasparov set out to see what would happen if he paired a machine and a human chess player in a collaboration. Like a centaur, the hybrid would have the strength of each of its components: the processing power of a large logic circuit and the intuition of a human brain’s wetware. The result: human-machine teams, even when they didn’t include the best grandmasters or most powerful computers, consistently beat teams composed solely of human grandmasters or superfast machines.
布鲁克林的科技记者克莱夫·汤普森(Clive Thompson)以这个故事作为开头，撰写了《比你想的更聪明》(Smarter Than You Think)一书。这是一本深刻而有见地的著作，主题是人类和机器智能。不过，他把这个话题推向了一个更加有趣的层次。在被深蓝打败后的第二年，卡斯帕罗夫打算看看如果让一台机器和一个人类棋手合作的话会产生何种结果。就像希腊神话中半人半马的神兽，这个组合集两者的优势于一身：既有大型逻辑电路的处理能力，又有人类大脑“湿件”(wetware)的洞察力。结果是，即使没有最优秀的国际象棋大师，或是最强大的电脑，人机组合也总是能够击败单纯由人类国际象棋大师，或是单纯由超高速电脑组成的团队。
Thompson’s point is that “artificial intelligence” — defined as machines that can think on their own just like or better than humans — is not yet (and may never be) as powerful as “intelligence amplification,” the symbiotic smarts that occur when human cognition is augmented by a close interaction with computers. When he played in collaboration with a computer, Kasparov said, it freed him to focus on the “creative texture” of the game. In the future, Thompson writes, we should not fear being beaten in chess by Deep Blue or in “Jeopardy!” by Watson. Instead, humans will find themselves working in partnership with the progeny of these supercomputers to diagnose diseases, solve crimes, write poetry and become (as the clever double meaning of the book’s title puts it) smarter than we think.
汤普森想要表达的是，“人工智能”——即能够独自像人类一样思考，甚至思考能力比人类更强的机器——还不能（也许永远不会）与“智能放大”(intelligence amplification)相抗衡。智能放大指的是在人类的认知能力，通过与电脑的密切互动而得到增强，进而产生的共生智慧。卡斯帕罗夫说，当他与一台电脑合作时，自己得到了解放，可以专注于对弈中的“创造性脉络”。汤普森写到，未来，我们不应该害怕下棋输给深蓝，或者在《危险边缘》(Jeopardy!)节目中被沃森(Watson)击败。相反，人类会发现，他们将与这些超级电脑的后代们合作，诊断疾病、打击犯罪、创作诗歌，并且变得（就像该书标题巧妙的双关）比我们想的更聪明。
This is not a new idea. It is based on the vision expounded by Vannevar Bush in his 1945 essay “As We May Think,” which conjured up a “memex” machine that would remember and connect information for us mere mortals. The concept was refined in the early 1960s by the Internet pioneer J. C. R. Licklider, who wrote a paper titled “Man-Computer Symbiosis,” and the computer designer Douglas Engelbart, who wrote “Augmenting Human Intellect.” They often found themselves in opposition to their colleagues, like Marvin Minsky and John McCarthy, who stressed the goal of pursuing artificial intelligence machines that left humans out of the loop.
这不是什么新想法。它的基础是万尼瓦尔·布什(Vannevar Bush)在1945年的文章《诚若所思》(As We May Think)中阐释的洞见。这篇文章构想了一台叫做“memex”的机器，它能为我们这些无法永生的人类记忆和关联信息。这个概念在上世纪60年代初由互联网的先锋J·C·R·利克莱德(J. C. R. Licklider)以及电脑设计师道格拉斯·恩格尔巴特(Douglas Engelbart)进一步完善。利克莱德的论文题为《人机共生》(Man-Computer Symbiosis)，恩格尔巴特的论文题目是《扩大人类的智力》(Augmenting Human Intellect)。他们常常发现自己的观点与其他研究者相左，这些人包括马文·闵斯基(Marvin Minsky)和约翰·麦卡锡(John McCarthy)，他们强调的目标是，创造人类智慧无法企及的人工智能机器。
Thompson doesn’t delve into this rich technological and intellectual history. What he provides instead are some interesting current examples of how human-­computer symbiosis is enlarging our intellect. The use of digital devices and social networks, he shows, helps to facilitate collaborative creativity and an ambient awareness of what’s happening in the world, while reducing the need to perform simple memory tasks.
汤普森没有深究有关技术和智能的这段内容丰富的历史。相反，他提供的是当下的一些有趣的例子，以阐述人类与电脑的共生如何增强了我们的智慧。他指出，使用数字设备和社交网络有利于发挥合作的创造力，并使我们更容易对外部世界所发生的一切形成“环境知觉”(ambient awareness)，同时降低了完成简单记忆任务的需要。
Thompson avoids both the hype and the hand-wringing so common among digital age pontificators by sidestepping most of the topics that agitate the geekosphere, like whether Google is rewiring the neurons in our brains or Twitter is making the world safe for democracy. He comes across as a sensible utopian, tending toward the belief that our digital devices and social networks are, on balance, enhancing our lives and improving the world in the same mixed-blessing sort of way that writing, paper, the printing press and the telephone did.
汤普森没有像数字时代的大多数自大狂那样哗众取宠和杞人忧天，规避了大多数可能搅动极客圈的话题，比如，谷歌(Google)是否正在重造我们的脑神经细胞，或者Twitter是否让世界更易于实现民主。他像一个理性的空想家，倾向于相信，我们的数码设备和社交网络总体来说正在改善我们的生活，也让世界变得更好，就像文字、纸张、印刷机和电话那样，给我们带来了好处，也带来了一些坏处。
In debunking the doomsayers, Thompson has pleasant sport poking fun at history’s procession of pessimists, starting with Socrates and his prediction that writing would destroy the Greek tradition of dialectic. Socrates’ primary concern was that people would write things down instead of remembering them. “This discovery of yours will create forgetfulness in the learners’ souls, because they will not use their memories,” Plato quotes him as saying. “They will trust to the external written characters and not remember of themselves.”
在驳斥末日预言家时，汤普森十分乐于取笑历史上众多的悲观主义者，从苏格拉底(Socrates)说起，还有他认为书写会毁了希腊传统辩证法的那个预言。苏格拉底最大的担心是，人们会把事情写下来，而不是用心记住。“你的这种发现会使学习者的灵魂产生忘性，因为他们不会再利用他们的记忆力，”柏拉图(Plato)称苏格拉底曾如是说。“他们会信任在头脑之外写下的文字，而不是靠自己来记忆。”
Thompson counters that Socrates failed to foresee “the types of complex thought that would be possible once you no longer needed to mentally store everything you’d encountered,” and he surmises that the same will turn out to be true of our ability to digitally store and easily access huge amounts of information and memories outside of our own brains. “What’s the line between our own, in-brain knowledge and the sea of information around us?” he asks. “Does it make us smarter when we can dip in so instantly? Or dumber with every search?”
汤普森提出，苏格拉底未能预见到“那种复杂的思考，一旦你不再需要用脑记住你眼前的所有问题，就有可能进行的那种复杂思考”，他推测，在我们能够在大脑之外，以电子形式存储并轻松访问大量信息和记忆以后，同样也会有能力进行那种复杂的思考。“我们自己脑中那些知识和我们身边的海量信息，这之间有什么明显的区别吗？”他问道，“当我们能如此迅速地获取信息时，我们是更聪明了吗？还是越多进行信息搜索，我们就会越笨？”
His answer is that our creative minds are being strengthened rather than atrophied by the ability to interact easily with the Web and Wikipedia. “Not only has transactive memory not hurt us,” he writes, “it’s allowed us to perform at higher levels, accomplishing acts of reasoning that are impossible for us alone.” That seems right. My own mind is cluttered with phone numbers I memorized as a kid, but nowadays I outsource that task to my smartphone. I’m eager to make this and similar tasks even easier, and improve my mind (or at least free it up for more daydreaming), by getting my hands on Google Glass.
他的回答是，我们的创造性思维能力只会因为同网络和维基百科(Wikipedia)的便利互动而加强，而不会萎缩。“交互记忆不仅没有伤害我们，”他写道，“它还允许我们能有更好的发挥，实现一些我们无法独自完成的推理。”这看来没错。我自己的脑子乱成一团，甚至还存储着儿时记下的电话号码，但如今我会将这一任务外包给我的智能手机。我还盼望着能买到谷歌眼镜(Google Glass)，把这一任务或相似的任务变得更简单，而且改进我的思考能力（或者至少腾出一些空来做白日梦）。
Thompson also celebrates the fact that digital tools and networks are allowing us to share ideas with others as never before. It’s easy (and not altogether incorrect) to denigrate much of the blathering that occurs each day in blogs and tweets. But that misses a more significant phenomenon: the type of people who 50 years ago were likely to be sitting immobile in front of television sets all evening are now expressing their ideas, tailoring them for public consumption and getting feedback. This change is a cause for derision among intellectual sophisticates partly because they (we) have not noticed what a social transformation it represents. “Before the Internet came along, most people rarely wrote anything at all for pleasure or intellectual satisfaction after graduating from high school or college,” Thompson notes. “This is something that’s particularly hard to grasp for professionals whose jobs require incessant writing, like academics, journalists, lawyers or marketers. For them, the act of writing and hashing out your ideas seems commonplace. But until the late 1990s, this simply wasn’t true of the average nonliterary person.”
汤普森也认为，如今的电子设备和网络，可以让我们比以往更容易地与他人分享自己的想法，这值得称赞。对博客和推文中每天出现的大量废话，我们很容易加以诋毁，而且诋毁也并非没有道理。但这遗漏了一个更重要的现象：那种50年前更可能会整晚坐在电视机前一动不动的人，如今则在表达想法，并且为了让大众消费而调整自己的想法，再收获反馈。这种变化往往会受到那些有见识的知识分子的嘲笑，这是因为他们（我们）还没有认识到它所代表的一种社会转变。“在互联网出现之前，多数人在高中或大学毕业后，就很少会再纯粹因为享受或得到智力上的满足而写下任何东西，”汤普森指出。“这一点对于学者、记者、律师或做市场推广的一些需要不断写作的专业人士来说，尤其难于理解。对他们来说，写作这种行为，以及和他人探讨你的想法，看上去再寻常不过了。但直到20世纪90年代末，一般不从事文字工作的人都不会这么做。”
More important, the writing produced in the new world of blogs and tweets is being done, at least ostensibly, for public discourse and reaction. It may not be getting us back to the dialectic of Socrates’ agora, but at least it produces a more stimulating and interactive realm than existed before the Internet.
更重要的是，在博客和推文组成的新世界里，写作是为了公开的讨论和反馈，至少从表面来说是这样的。它也许不会带我们回到苏格拉底在广场上的辩论现场，但至少与互联网出现前相比，它会产生一片更能激发人思考、互动更活跃的天地。