The congenial lunchtime ritual of breaking bread with others is becoming a rarity, replaced by snacking on the go or in front of a computer. For a few artists, the midday meal is a chance to bring everyone to the table for pleasure and conversation.
与意气相投的人共进午餐已经成为罕有之事，现在人们要不就是在快餐店里匆匆吃完，要不就是对着电脑吃。而对于几个艺术家来说，一日之中的这一餐是让大家聚集在桌前快乐交谈的好时机。
Cai Guo-Qiang
蔡国强
There is one hard and fast rule at the lunches the artist Cai Guo-Qiang has with his studio assistants nearly every day: no chicken. Cai was born in the Year of the Rooster, and his grandmother taught him not to eat his own kind. As for his employees who enjoy chicken, “It’s a good thing I travel often,” says Cai, a Chinese artist who is known for his elaborate artworks often created with fireworks.
对于几乎每天都在他的工作室里干活的助手们，蔡国强有这样一条硬性规定：不许吃鸡肉。蔡国强出生在中国的鸡年，他的祖母教他不许吃自己的同类。对于那些爱吃鸡肉的雇员们，“幸好我经常外出旅行，”蔡国强说。这位中国艺术家以复杂的、通常由烟火制成的艺术品闻名。
These days Cai’s studio on East First Street in Manhattan is undergoing massive renovations that have rendered its kitchen unusable, so he’s been bringing everyone around the corner to his former apartment, a loft on Great Jones Street where his older daughter, Wenyou, lives.
近日来，蔡国强在曼哈顿东一街的工作室正在进行大规模的翻新，厨房也不能用了。所以他就带着大家转过一条街，来到自己以前的住所，那是大琼斯街上的一座loft，现在他的长女蔡文悠住在那里。
For 14 years, Cai’s chef has been Zhenhuan Zhou, a longtime studio assistant who shops daily for ingredients in Chinatown and specializes in the Cantonese cuisine of her native town in the Guangdong region. On an autumn Wednesday, the menu includes winter melon soup with duck; stir-fried lily bulbs; steamed cod with pickled mustard greens; fried pancake with grated lotus root and pork (a favorite of Cai’s); rich black preserved duck eggs, known as thousand-year-old eggs; and gua bao (steamed buns) with duck, scallions and plum sauce — a famously filling dish, Cai points out, traditionally served during special occasions in the homes of Chinese farmers. At his lunches, Cai tends to lead the conversation, speaking Mandarin with his staff; he laughs often. Zhenhuan, one of his most experienced assistants, helps in particular with his famous gunpowder drawings, created by igniting chemical explosives. “It’s similar to cooking,” Cai says. “You mix a little bit of this and that.”
14年来，蔡国强的厨子一直都是周珍环（音译），她是工作室的长期助理，每天从唐人街采购原料，她特别擅长做广东菜，因为她老家就在广东。一个秋日的星期三，工作室的菜谱上有冬瓜鸭子汤、清炒百合、酸菜蒸鳕鱼、藕丁猪肉末煎饼（这是蔡国强的最爱）、在西方被称为“千年老蛋”的松花蛋、鸭肉馅挂包（跟肉夹馍很像的台湾菜——译注）配大葱和李子酱——蔡国强特别指出，这道菜很著名，在他中国农村的家乡，这道菜是在特殊场合才吃的。午饭时，蔡国强喜欢发起谈话，和员工们说普通话；还经常大笑。珍环是他最老的员工，特别是在他著名的以化学方式引发火药爆炸的画作中对他帮助很大。“这和做饭差不多，”蔡国强说，“就是加点这个，再加点那个。”
Marianne Vitale
玛丽安·维塔勒(Marianne Vitale)
On a chilly afternoon, Marianne Vitale is in the second-floor kitchen of her studio in Long Island City, Queens, putting the finishing touches on an apple pie she will soon be baking for the devil, the messiah and a trio of prostitutes (all are part of a piece for Performa, the performance art biennial, that had its debut in the fall). In the meantime, the shark is in the oven.
一个寒冷的下午，玛丽安·维塔勒在位于皇后区长岛的工作室二楼厨房里，为一道苹果派完成最后的工作，不久后她还要为魔鬼、弥赛亚与三个妓女烘烤这道派（这些都是为今年秋天首次举行的艺术双年展“Performa”准备的作品）。与此同时，烤箱里还有鲨鱼肉。
Vitale is known for her large-scale sculptures, such as a series made of steel railroad tracks that is currently on display in a group show at the High Line in New York. No matter what she’s working on, though, she often cooks for whoever is in her studio.
维塔勒以她的大型雕塑而闻名，比如说一系列铁轨雕塑，最近在纽约高线的一个群展中展出。不过，不管手头在做什么作品，她都经常为任何来她工作室的人做饭。
“I’m going to make this a Jimmy Buffett,” Vitale says. “You know, a bouffay.” She summons everyone to lunch by clanging a cowbell, and sets out shark fillets, cabbage with caraway seeds, purple potatoes, wild rice and squash. Her cast, along with her main studio assistant — a lanky, heavily tattooed guy named Cole — eats in the center of the studio, seated on improvised chairs made from things like riding saddles. Against a wall behind them is a sprawling century-old wooden bar the artist found on eBay, a relic from a watering hole in Manitowoc, Wis.
“我要把它做成一道吉米·巴菲特(Jimmy Buffett)，”维塔勒说。“你知道，这道菜就叫‘布菲’。”她摇响一个牛铃，叫所有人来吃饭，端出鲨鱼片、甘蓝配香菜籽，紫薯和笋瓜。她主要的工作室助手名叫科尔，是个满身刺青的瘦高男人，他和其他员工们一起在工作室中央吃饭，坐在用摩托车座之类东西临时拼凑起来的椅子上。他们身后的墙边有一道长长的、有百年历史的木质吧台，是维塔勒在eBay上发现的，是威斯康星州马尼托沃克一个酒馆的遗留物。
Vitale has experience cooking for artists. When a friend, the sculptor David Adamo, moved to Berlin several years ago, she took over his job cooking for Rudolf Stingel’s studio. In her studio, the menu varies, she says, depending on what sort of work is going on. She favors chicken soup, partly for the aroma it brings to the place. She gets her vegetables at the Union Square Greenmarket — “whatever has been recently pulled from the ground” — and likes Blue Moon fishmongers for seafood. She also makes a fantastic Wiener schnitzel.
维塔勒以前也曾给艺术家们做过饭。她的朋友，雕塑家大卫·阿达莫(David Adamo)几年前搬到柏林，她接替了他的工作，为鲁道夫·斯汀格尔(Rudolf Stingel)的工作室做饭。她说，在她的工作室里，菜单花样多变，取决于他们现在在做什么工作。她喜欢鸡汤，部分是因为香味可以传遍整个屋子。她在联合广场菜市买菜，买“任何刚从地里拔出来的东西”，她也喜欢到“蓝月亮”的鱼贩们那里买海鲜。她还擅长做维也纳炸肉片。
“I designed my studio so that my kitchen overlooks the shop,” Vitale adds. “Cooking relaxes me, helps me focus and problem-solve. The stress and anxiety that comes with running a business is not permitted in my kitchen, so it’s a safety zone.”
“工作室是我自己设计的，所以从厨房能看到工作室，”维塔勒说，“烹饪能让我放松，有助于我集中精力、解决问题。我不会把生意上的压力和焦虑带进厨房，所以那里是我的安全地带。”
Urs Fischer
乌尔斯·费舍尔(Urs Fischer)
Rising high above a radio playing “Crimson and Clover,” over the chatter of assistants and the barking and collar-rattling of three (there are usually four) studio dogs, Mina Stone’s 1 p.m. lunch bell reaches every corner of Urs Fischer‘s 13,000-square-foot workspace in Red Hook, Brooklyn. On this Thursday afternoon, lunch is faki (Greek lentil soup); roasted sweet potatoes; beet tzatziki; shaved purple cabbage; halibut with fennel, lime and cilantro; and freshly baked olive oil cake — an array of dishes fit, in their dazzling colors, for a gallery. All of it is laid out on two oval marble tables in the studio kitchen in the mezzanine. (Nearby is a much smaller table, for when Fischer’s 4-year-old daughter, Lotti, turns up.) For Fischer, the studio meals are a way of avoiding some of the more dispiriting aspects of takeout. “What makes me sad,” he says, “is when people have these lunches where they all go out individually, and then have plastic containers of salads, and sit in front of computers.”
收音机放着《深红与三叶草》(Crimson and Clover)，屋里助手们在闲谈，工作室里养的三条狗不停吠叫、项圈哗啦作响（平时有四条），下午一点，米娜·斯通(Mina Stone)的午饭铃传遍乌尔斯·费舍尔位于布鲁克林红钩占地13000平方英尺的工作室。这是星期四的下午，午饭是希腊扁豆汤、烤甘薯、甜菜酸奶黄瓜、切成薄片的紫甘蓝、茴香大比目鱼、酸橙与香菜，还有现烤的橄榄油蛋糕——色彩缤纷，适合画廊。它们被放在工作室一层与二层中间的厨房里，两个椭圆形的大理石桌上。旁边还有一个小一点的桌子，费舍尔四岁的女儿罗迪如果出现，就用那个桌子。对于费舍尔来说，在工作室吃饭可以避免叫外卖时一些令人沮丧的一面。“人们午饭时总是单独出去，然后带着装沙拉的塑料容器回来，坐在电脑前面吃，这让我觉得伤心。”
Fischer met Stone four years ago through his dealer Gavin Brown, for whom she still cooks postopening dinners. “There’s this moment where, no matter what you do at the studio, you sit down for half an hour, talk and relax and share food, and nobody is worried about anything else that is going on,” Stone says. “It creates a nice energy and gives people this family feeling that makes them work better.”
四年前，费舍尔通过经纪人加文·布朗(Gavin Brown)认识了斯通，目前斯通也为布朗做开幕式之后的晚宴。“在这样的午餐时刻，不管你在工作室里做些什么，你都可以坐下来，半个小时内只是谈话、放松、享用食物，没有人担心其他的事，”斯通说，“这营造出正能量，给人们家庭般的感觉，让他们可以更好地工作。”