MOSCOW — Russia’s relations with many Western nations, including the United States, may be at their worst levels since the Cold War, but its relationship with North Korea is blooming faster than the famously lush flower beds of Moscow’s Alexander Garden.
莫斯科——俄罗斯与包括美国在内的很多西方国家的关系可能已经跌至冷战以来最低水平，但俄朝关系的发展，却比莫斯科亚历山大花园繁盛花簇的盛开还要快。
On Wednesday, the Russian Foreign Ministry announced an agreement to designate 2015 a “Year of Friendship” with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, which is regarded by much of the world as a pariah state.
周三，俄罗斯外交部(Russian Foreign Ministry)宣布与朝鲜民主主义人民共和国达成协议，将2015年设定为俄朝“友谊年”——在很多人眼里，朝鲜是一个被世界孤立的国家。
The announcement came six weeks after President Vladimir V. Putin’s personal spokesman confirmed that the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, would visit Moscow on May 9 to attend a commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany. It is expected to be Mr. Kim’s first trip abroad since assuming power in 2011.
在公布这一消息的六周之前，弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统的发言人确认，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)将出席5月9日在莫斯科举行的庆祝战胜纳粹德国70周年的活动。这将是金正恩于2011年执政以来首次出国访问。
Tellingly, news of the Year of Friendship came on the same day that Berlin officials said that the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, had declined Mr. Putin’s invitation to attend the ceremony. The German government cited Russia’s policies in Ukraine, where the Kremlin has annexed Crimea and backed violent separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk, as the reason for her refusal to attend.
值得注意的是，在有关友谊年的消息传出的同一天，柏林官员表示，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)已经拒绝普京的邀请，不会出席庆祝活动。德国政府称，默克尔因为俄罗斯对乌克兰的政策而拒绝出席活动，俄罗斯吞并了克里米亚，并支持顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克的暴力分裂分子。
Asked about Ms. Merkel’s decision, Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, told Russian news services on Wednesday that he had no knowledge of it.
周三被问及默克尔的决定时，普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科(Dmitri S. Peskov)对俄国新闻机构表示，他不了解相关情况。
The Foreign Ministry in its statement said that the Year of Friendship would also commemorate the 70th anniversary of North Korea’s liberation, and was intended to bring relations “in the political, economic, humanitarian and other areas to a new level.”
俄罗斯斯外交部在声明中表示，友谊年活动还会庆祝朝鲜解放70周年，该活动旨在推动两国在“政治、经济、人道主义及其他领域的关系达到新水平”。
“In the Year of Friendship,” the ministry said, “our countries are intensifying exchanges of delegations and contact information on an interagency and interregional level, to hold joint cultural events in Moscow, Pyongyang and other cities.”
“在友谊年中，”该部表示，“两国将在部门间及地区间的层面上加强代表团交流，交换联系信息，在莫斯科、平壤及其他城市联合举办文化活动。”
Mr. Putin has made a pronounced effort to turn his attention eastward to Asia amid the frayed relations with the West over Ukraine, but the closer ties to North Korea may serve only to reinforce his image as increasingly isolated from the world’s more established powers.
在俄罗斯与西方国家的关系因为乌克兰问题而受损的时候，普京断然将注意力向东转移到亚洲，但与朝鲜建立更亲密的关系，恐怕只会强化他被那些老牌强国日益孤立的形象。
North Korea, meanwhile, has taken at least one step to reduce its own isolation. Last week, the country said it was reopening its borders, which had been closed to foreigners for four months over fears of Ebola, just in time to allow international participants in the Pyongyang marathon next month. It is only the second year that foreigners have been allowed to participate in the race in the North Korean capital.
与此同时，朝鲜至少已经迈出一步，以缓解自身的孤立状态。朝鲜在上周表示将重新开放边境，允许下个月平壤马拉松赛的国际参赛者进入朝鲜。之前该国因担心埃博拉病毒传入，将边境封闭了四个月。这是朝鲜第二次允许外国人前往朝鲜首都参加马拉松比赛。
In another sign of Russia’s idiosyncratic foreign policy, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, met Wednesday in Moscow with Vyacheslav Chirikiboy, his counterpart from Abkhazia, the breakaway region of Georgia.
周三，俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)在莫斯科会见了阿布哈兹地区外交部长维亚切斯拉夫·奇利可布伊(Vyacheslav Chirikiboy)，该地区是从格鲁吉亚分裂出来的。这是俄罗斯特有的外交风格的又一表现。
Russia is one of just four countries — the others being Venezuela; Nicaragua; and Nauru, an eight-square-mile island in the South Pacific — to recognize Abkhazia as an independent nation.
只有四个国家承认阿布哈兹是一个独立国家，俄罗斯是其中之一，另外三个是委内瑞拉、尼加拉瓜和瑙鲁——南太平洋一个面积为上八平方英里（约合21平方公里）的岛屿。
Some Ukrainians fear that Russia ultimately hopes to turn the embattled regions of Donetsk and Luhansk into a similar quasi-independent, breakaway territory, which it will then grant recognition and protection.
一些乌克兰人担心，俄罗斯最终希望将战火纷飞的顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克地区分裂出去，成为类似的准独立地区，俄罗斯将会承认这些地区，并予以保护。