MOSCOW — The huge banner was unfurled on Friday morning outside one of Moscow’s biggest bookstores, Dom Knigi, a grand emporium of the written word on Novii Arbat Street across from a Citibank, a Baskin-Robbins and a Dunkin’ Donuts, and down the block from a big movie theater where the main feature at the moment is “Captain America: The Winter Soldier.”
莫斯科——周五早上，一个巨大的条幅悬挂在了“书之家”(Dom Knigi)外墙上。这座宏伟的建筑是莫斯科最大的书店之一，位于新阿尔巴特大街(Novii Arbat)，街对面是花旗银行(Citibank)、芭斯罗缤冰激凌店(Baskin-Robbins)和唐恩都乐甜甜圈连锁店(Dunkin’ Donuts)。一个街区之遥是一家大型影院，那里正在放映《美国队长：冬日战士》(Captain America: The Winter Soldier)。
“Fifth Column,” the banner declared. “Strangers Among Us.” It showed black-and-white portraits of three of Russia’s better-known political opposition figures and two Soviet-era dissident rock musicians, along with two evil-looking space aliens, one carrying a briefcase marked with the white ribbon that has been the symbol of political protests against President Vladimir V. Putin and the Russian government.
条幅上写道，“第五纵队，我们当中的异类。”条幅上还展示了几幅黑白肖像，包括三名俄罗斯著名的反对派政治人物、两名苏联时代的异见摇滚乐手，还有两个凶神恶煞的外星人形象，其中一个外星人拿着公文包，上面系着一条白丝带。白丝带是反对俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)及其政府的政治抗议活动的象征。
From the moment that Russia’s invasion and annexation of Crimea cast a new, bitter chill over relations with the West, a sinister jingoistic vibe has pervaded this unsettled capital — stirred up by state-controlled television and Mr. Putin himself.
俄罗斯对克里米亚的入侵和吞并，为该国与西方的关系再次注入了一股冷峻的寒意。从那一刻起，这个不安的首都就充斥着一种针对外国的恶毒敌意——这都是由国家控制的电视台和普京本人搅动起的。
“Some Western politicians are already threatening us not just with sanctions but also the prospect of increasingly serious problems on the domestic front,” the president said in his speech announcing plans to absorb Crimea into the Russian Federation. “I would like to know what they have in mind exactly: action by a fifth column, this disparate bunch of ‘national traitors,’ or are they hoping to put us in a worsening social and economic situation so as to provoke public discontent?”
“一些西方政客已经在威胁我们了，不仅提到了制裁，还提到了国内出现日益严重的问题的可能性，”普京在发表演讲，宣布吞并克里米亚的计划时说。“我想知道他们究竟在想什么：是通过第五纵队这种七拼八凑的‘卖国贼’采取行动，还是希望让我们陷入不断恶化的社会和经济环境，从而挑起公众的不满？”
Moscow today is a proudly international city, where skateboarders in Gorky Park wear New York Yankees hats they bought on vacation in America, and where the designer French or Italian handbags might just as well have been picked out in Paris or Milan as in one of the boutiques in Red Square. Apple iPhones and iPads are nearly as common on the subway here as they are in Washington.
如今的莫斯科是一个多姿多彩的国际大都市。在这里，高尔基公园的滑板玩家戴着度假时从美国买来的纽约扬基队(New York Yankees)的帽子，红场专卖店里出售的来自法国和意大利的设计师手袋，与在巴黎和米兰销售的毫无差别。在地铁里，拿苹果iPhone和iPad的乘客几乎与华盛顿一样常见。
In the weeks since the military incursion into Crimea, however, Russian flags have been hung from the windows of apartment buildings all over the city, just as American flags appeared in profusion after the Sept. 11 terror attacks.
然而，在军队入侵克里米亚后的几周里，全城各处的许多居民楼窗外都悬挂起了俄罗斯国旗，就像“9·11”恐怖袭击后飘扬的美国国旗一样。
There is also now a website with a name that translates as “traitor.net” that includes photos and quotations of public figures who have spoken out in some way against Russia’s policy toward Ukraine. The bottom of the site has a button inviting viewers to “suggest a traitor.”
如今还出现了这样一个网站，名字翻译过来是“卖国贼.net”，网站上的内容包括一些公众人物的照片和语录，他们都曾以某种方式发表过反对俄罗斯对乌政策的言论。网站的下方有一个按钮，鼓励浏览者“举报卖国贼”。
At Mr. Putin’s direction, a committee led by his chief of staff is developing a new “state policy in culture.” Widely expected to be enacted into law, the proposed cultural policy emphasizes that “Russia is not Europe” and urges “a rejection of the principles of multiculturalism and tolerance” in favor of emphasizing Russia’s “unique state-government civilization,” according to Russian news accounts that quoted a presidential adviser on culture, Vladimir Tolstoy.
在普京的指示下，由克里姆林宫办公厅主任领导的一个委员会正在制定新的“国家文化政策”。外界普遍认为，该文化政策将被定为法律。俄罗斯新闻媒体援引总统文化顾问弗拉基米尔·托尔斯泰(Vladimir Tolstoy)的话报道说，该政策强调“俄罗斯不是欧洲”，并要求“摒弃多文化主义和包容的原则”，从而强调俄罗斯“独特的国家政府文明”。
A Russian news site, znak.com, also reported last week that a popular series of math textbooks would be dropped from an official list of recommended educational texts because it used too many non-Russian fairy tale and other characters in its illustrations.
俄罗斯新闻网站znak.com上周也报道说，一套非常受欢迎的数学教材将从官方推荐的教材列表中删除，这是因为其插图中使用了太多不属于俄罗斯的童话人物和其他人物。
“What do we see from the first pages? Gnomes, Snow White — these are representatives of a foreign-language culture,” an expert of the Russian Academy of Education, Lyubov Ulyakhina, told the site in a question-and-answer interview. “Here’s some monkey, Little Red Riding Hood,” Ms. Ulyakhina continued, “of 119 characters drawn here only nine are related to Russian culture. Sorry — no patriotism — this is not funny; this is our mentality.”
“我们在前几页看到了什么？小矮人、白雪公主——这些都是外语文化的代表，”俄罗斯教育科学院(Russian Academy of Education)的专家柳博夫·乌尔雅克纳(Lyubov Ulyakhina)在问答采访中告诉这家网站。“这是某个猴子、小红帽，”乌尔雅克纳接着说，“书中展示的119个人物中，只有九个与俄罗斯文化有关。对不起，这可不算是爱国。这是很严肃的事；这关乎我们的思维方式。”
And in a statement last week, the Russian Foreign Ministry warned its citizens not to travel to countries that have extradition treaties with the United States, saying that the Obama administration “is trying to make a routine practice out of ‘hunting’ for Russian citizens in third countries with the goal of their subsequent extradition and conviction in the U.S. on the basis of, as a rule, questionable charges.”
俄罗斯外交部在上周发表的一份声明中，警告其公民不要到与美国有引渡条约的国家旅游，称奥巴马政府正在“努力经常性地在第三国追捕俄罗斯公民，目的是以站不住脚的罪名将俄罗斯公民引渡至美国并定罪，这种做法已成常规。”
In some cases, the xenophobic language has been accompanied by an intensified crackdown on political opponents and also on some media outlets that do not strictly toe the Kremlin line.
一些例子显示，除了在语言上对外国的恐惧之外，俄罗斯政府还对政治对手以及一些没有对克里姆林宫路线亦步亦趋的媒体进行激烈打压。
On the same day that Russian forces initially deployed across Crimea, Aleksei A. Navalny, the political opposition leader and anticorruption blogger, was placed under house arrest in connection with one of the several prosecutions — widely regarded as politically motivated — that were brought against him long before he spoke out against Mr. Putin’s policies toward Ukraine.
俄罗斯军队最初在克里米亚全境部署的当天，政治反对派领导人物、反腐博客作者阿列克谢·A·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei A. Navalny)在家遭到软禁，这与他面临的若干项指控中的一项有关。外界普遍认为这些指控带有政治动机，而且这些指控在他公开反对普京对乌克兰政策很久之前就已经存在。
Mr. Navalny is generally confined to his home but has also been barred from speaking in public or using the Internet or other electronic communication.
除了被限制行动自由，纳瓦尔尼也被禁止公开发表言论、使用互联网和其他电子通讯工具。
Mr. Navalny’s photo is at the top of the website listing traitors, and he was among the opposition figures pictured on the banner outside the bookstore. In a separate development on Friday, prosecutors announced a new indictment against him, this one involving charges that he and his brother, Oleg, stole about $1 million by overcharging for courier services related to a basket-weaving business owned by their parents.
纳瓦尔尼的照片出现在那个网站的卖国贼列表中的最上方，他还是书店外条幅上展示的异见人士之一。周五，检方又宣布对他另外提起了新的指控，这一次是因为他和兄弟奥列格(Oleg)被指获得了大约100万美元非法所得。检方称，他们在与父母名下编织篮子的企业相关的快递服务中抬高价格而取得了这笔钱。
A previously unknown group called Glavplakat published a statement on its website taking responsibility for the banner outside the bookstore, and it promised additional street art in support of its antitraitor mission.
之前不为人知的组织Glavplakat在其网站上发布了一份声明，称为书店外的条幅负责，并宣称将在街头展示更多艺术作品，以支持其反对卖国贼的使命。
“Many films have been shot, many books have been written about how aliens have secretly captured the earth masking themselves as earthlings,” the group wrote. “At the time, no one suspects that they are others, enemies. For now we have not encountered real aliens. However, the ‘fifth column’ of national traitors in Russia has unfortunately become an incontestable reality.”
“许多电影和书籍讲的都是外星人伪装成地球人，最后偷偷占领地球的事，”该组织写道。“目前，没人怀疑他们是异类，是敌人。到目前为止，我们还没有遇到真正的外星人。然而不幸的是，俄罗斯存在由卖国贼组成的‘第五纵队’，这已经成为无可争辩的事实。”