China’s rise as an Olympic powerhouse is full of stories of athletes becoming champions in sports their parents could not have imagined playing. But perhaps the most rapid journey to the top has been in curling, a sport that has a mere 15-year history in China.
中国在奥运会上崛起的过程中，很多运动员夺得冠军的体育项目是他们的父辈当年无法想象的。这其中，攀上顶峰最快的，或许要算冰壶，一个在中国仅有15年历史的项目。
The women’s team was the first in China to achieve international success, thanks in part to the country’s ability to devote significant resources to niche sports. The athletes won the world championships in 2009, just seven years after China joined the World Curling Federation. In 2010, they won a bronze at the Winter Olympics.
中国的女子冰壶队率先取得了国际成就，而这在一定程度上要归功于该国有能力在小众运动项目上投入大量的资源。2009年，女队赢得了世界锦标赛冠军，而此时仅仅是中国加入世界冰壶联合会(World Curling Federation)的第七个年头。2010年，她们赢得了冬奥会铜牌。
On Wednesday, the Chinese men’s team lost to Canada 10-6 in the semifinals at the Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. They will face Sweden in the bronze medal game on Friday.
本周三，中国男子冰壶队在索契冬奥会的半决赛中以6-10负于加拿大队。他们将在周五的铜牌战中与瑞典队一分高下。
In international competitions, the top spots are still most often taken by Canada and Northern European nations. But China ranks just behind. At the end of last year, its women’s team was fifth in the world rankings for curling, and the men were seventh.
在国际赛事中，冰壶比赛的头几名仍然多数时候被加拿大和北欧国家包揽。不过，中国队紧随其后。去年底，中国女队排名世界第五，男队则位列第七。
The sport’s roots in China trace to the frigid northeastern city of Harbin, home to a large number of China’s winter sports athletes. In 1999, a sports school in Harbin built a curling facility. There, future Olympians began to develop their skills in what is known in Chinese as binghu, or “ice kettle,” a reference to the shape of a curling stone.
冰壶运动在中国的萌芽要追溯到寒冷的东北城市哈尔滨。这里也是大批中国冬季项目运动员的家乡。1999年，哈尔滨的一所体育学校开辟了一块冰壶场地。就在那里，未来的奥运选手开始磨练自己的技艺。冰壶运动在中文里的名字取自比赛用石的形状。
One of the athletes who came out of Harbin was Wang Bingyu, who led the Chinese women’s team that won the 2009 world championships. “At school when I told my classmates I wanted to learn curling, nobody knew what it was,” she told Sanlian Life magazine in 2009. “At that time I felt really extraordinary, doing something nobody else knew about.”
来自哈尔滨的冰壶运动员中包括带领中国女队赢得2009年世锦赛冠军的王冰玉。同年接受《三联生活周刊》采访时，她说，“我在学校和同学们一说要去练冰壶，周围没一个人知道冰壶是怎么回事。我当时觉得自己太厉害了，练了一个别人都不知道的东西。”
This year Ms. Wang’s team failed to advance to the semifinals after losing 6-10 to Switzerland on Monday. Chinese hopes turn to the men’s team, which defeated Britain on the final shot of their match-up on Monday.
在本次冬奥会上，王冰玉带领的女队周一以6-10不敌瑞士队，无缘四强。中国的希望转到了男队身上。同样在周一，他们通过最后一壶击败了英国队。
The duel with Canada was particularly pointed for China’s coach, Marcel Rocque, a Canadian, winner of three world championships and four Canadian titles. Mr. Rocque said he had to carefully weigh the decision to coach another country’s team but ultimately agreed for the sake of encouraging the sport’s global development.
与加拿大队的半决赛对中国队的教练马塞尔·罗克(Marcel Rocque)来说尤为艰难。他是加拿大人，曾经三次问鼎世锦赛，两夺加拿大冠军。罗克表示，自己仔细权衡了担任别国教练的选择，最终为了促进冰壶运动的全球发展而点头。
“I wore the Maple Leaf with a lot of pride,” he told The Canadian Press. “It was a tough one for me.”
“我身披枫叶队服的时候倍感骄傲，”他向加拿大媒体吐露。“对我来说这是个艰难的决定。”
Since agreeing to coach the Chinese national teams last year, Mr. Rocque has spent months on the road. Curlers say the Chinese success owes much to a high level of focus and investment in a sport for which most countries’ team members have to hold down day jobs.
自从去年同意执教中国国家队以来，罗克就长时间地在外颠簸。冰壶运动员们表示，中国队的成功很大程度上源于高度的专注与投入。在这项运动上，多数国家的运动员不得不从事其他的正式职业。
“They can wake up and go curl, and go work out, and get paid to do that. That’s their lives,” Brad Jacobs, a bank employee who leads the Canadian team, told The Toronto Star. “Would I love to curl professionally and that’s my job? Of course. That’s obviously something that’s been a lifelong dream of mine and of ours, but we’ll have to see.”
“他们可以睡醒了爬起来就去打冰壶、训练，还能领工资，他们的生活就是这样，”在银行工作的加拿大队队长布拉德·雅各布斯(Brad Jacobs)告诉《多伦多星报》(The Toronto Star)。“问我想不想职业打冰壶，把这个当工作呢？当然想了。这显然是我的终生梦想，也是我们的，不过我们得看情况。”
The Chinese men expressed confidence heading into the semifinals, where they have a chance of winning their first medal.
半决赛前，中国男队展现了自信。他们有望首次赢得奖牌。
“These past four years, we’ve made great efforts and have been hardworking and diligent every day, at every training session, just so we can prove ourselves at the Olympics,” Xu Xiaoming, a team member, told The Beijing Evening News. “The whole team is mature. Of course we make a few little mistakes, but we’re much better than before.”
“这四年，我们做了很多努力，包括每一天、每一次的训练都非常刻苦、非常认真，就是为了在奥运会上证明自己，”队员徐晓明接受《北京晚报》采访时说。“整个队伍成熟了，虽然也会犯一些小错误，但是比以前好很多了。”