No one outside Apple really knows what products the company will introduce next, but that hasn’t stopped Wall Street analysts from prognosticating about potential new iPhones.
在苹果公司(Apple)之外，没有人真正知道该公司接下来会推出什么产品。但是，华尔街的分析人士并没有因此停止对新款iPhone的预测。
Apple is widely expected to introduce new iPhones in September. In general, analysts are anticipating an upgraded version of the iPhone 5, which many are referring to as the iPhone 5S, with a fingerprint sensor for getting past the lock screen. They also predict a lower-cost iPhone with a plastic body that will be available in multiple colors, widely referred to the iPhone 5C.
人们普遍认为，苹果会在今年9月推出新款iPhone。大体而言，分析人士预计公司会推出升级版的iPhone 5，也即很多人所说的iPhone 5S，它将利用指纹感应器来解锁屏幕。他们还预测苹果公司会推出一款廉价版iPhone，这款手机将采用塑料外壳，有多种颜色可供选择，很多人称之为iPhone 5C。
Here’s a quick roundup of what they are saying.
在这里，我们对他们的说法做个了快速的总结：
Ming-Chi Kuo, an analyst for KGI Securities, who has accurately predicted the details for some Apple products in the past, thinks the so-called iPhone 5S will have a faster processor, an improved camera flash and a fingerprint sensor for security. Last year, Apple acquired AuthenTec, a company that designs fingerprint sensors. In a research note, Mr. Kuo said he thought Apple would change the shape of the home button so that it bulges outward to create space for the sensor, and that the button’s material would be changed from plastic to sapphire to prevent damage to the sensor. Mr. Kuo also predicts the low-cost iPhone will be a version of the iPhone 5 with a case made of fiberglass and plastic and available in various colors, and that it will be heavier than the aluminum case of the iPhone 5.
KGI证券(KGI Securities)分析师郭明池(Ming-Chi Kuo)曾准确预测一些苹果产品的相关细节，他认为，所谓的iPhone 5S将配有更快的处理器和更好的闪光灯，还会配置一个指纹感应器来保证安全。去年，苹果收购了设计指纹感应器的奥森太珂公司(AuthenTec)。郭明池在研究报告中说，他认为苹果会改变主键的形状，使之向外凸起，以便为指纹感应器腾出空间，而且主键的制作材料将由塑料变为蓝宝石玻璃，这样可以防止传感器受损。郭明池还预计，廉价版iPhone将会是以iPhone 5为原型，其外壳将用玻璃纤维和塑料制成，有多种颜色可供选择，而且会比iPhone 5的铝制外壳重。
Brian Marshall, an analyst for International Strategy and Investment, said Apple is due for an iPhone with a larger screen to compete with bigger phones offered by Samsung. He predicts (and hopes) that a big-screen iPhone will be about 5 inches diagonally.
国际战略与投资(International Strategy and Investment)的分析师布赖恩·马歇尔(Brian Marshall)说，苹果应该推出一款屏幕较大的iPhone来与三星(Samsung)所提供的更大的手机展开竞争。他预测（而且希望）大屏幕iPhone的屏幕尺寸将为5英寸左右。
Gene Munster, an analyst for Piper Jaffray Investment Research, who has repeatedly predicted an Apple television set that has yet to materialize, said he believed that the lower-cost iPhone will not only have cheaper parts, but also exclude software features like Siri. This seems unlikely, however, because the older, lower-cost iPhone 4S offers Siri.
曾多次预测苹果将推出电视机的派杰投资研究(Piper Jaffray Investment Research)分析师基尼·蒙斯特(Gene Munster)说，他认为廉价版iPhone不仅会采用价格较低的零部件，还会去除语音助手Siri等特色软件。然而，这似乎不太可能，因为款式更旧、价格更低的iPhone 4S也配有Siri。
Amit Daryanani, an analyst for RBC Capital Markets, would only guess about the release date for a new iPhone — predicting either the second or third week of September. (In the past, Apple has released new iPhones about 10 days after introducing them.)
加拿大皇家银行资本市场(RBC Capital Markets)的分析师阿米特·达里亚纳尼(Amit Daryanani)只愿意对新款iPhone的上市日期进行预测——9月的第二周或第三周。（过去，苹果的新款iPhone通常是在发布后10天左右上市。）