After criticism that it was slow and ineffective in the crucial early months of the Ebola crisis, the World Health Organization said Monday that it would overhaul the way it deals with epidemics.
外界曾批评世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)在埃博拉危机爆发的最初几个月行动缓慢，没有在那段关键时期发挥作用。该组织在周一表示，他们将会改变应对流行病的方式。
“The world, including W.H.O., is ill prepared for a large and sustained disease outbreak,” the organization said in a statement by Dr. Margaret Chan, its director general, and by its deputy director and regional directors.
世卫组织总干事陈冯富珍博士(Margaret Chan)、副总干事和各区域主任发表声明称，“包括世卫组织在内，全世界对处理一场大规模持久疾病疫情准备不足。”
Amid an overall contraction of the organization’s budget in recent years, there have been sharp cuts to its outbreak and emergency response departments. In the statement, Dr. Chan and her colleagues said that trend would be reversed.
世卫组织近些年来整体收缩预算，疫情应对和应急反应部门的预算遭到大幅削减。陈冯富珍和同事们在声明中表示，将会扭转这种趋势。
“We commit to expanding our core staff working on diseases with outbreak potential and health emergencies, so we will have skilled staff always available,” the statement said. A new reserve force of certified staff members will be created to tackle crises, the statement said, making use of a new outbreak contingency fund and a new system for managing the organization’s efforts in the field.
声明称，“我们要在有可能暴发疫情的疾病和各种突发卫生事件方面扩大我们的核心工作人员队伍，使世卫组织所有三个层级随时都有可调遣的熟练工作人员。”声明还表示，该组织将建立由合格工作人员组成的新储备力量应对危机，利用新的疫情应急基金和新机制，管理世卫组织的实地工作。
The statement said the health organization would also try to build up more expertise in community engagement, “informed by anthropology and other social sciences.”
声明称，该卫生组织还会努力在社区参与方面积累专业知识，“去参考人类学和其它社会科学”。
More than 10,000 people in Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia have died of Ebola in the current outbreak, which has infected more than 25,000 people since December 2013, according to the agency. Critics have said the W.H.O. was slow to mobilize, had difficulty with coordination and ran into significant problems with public mistrust in the affected countries.
据该组织透露，在利比里亚、塞拉利昂和几内亚肆虐的埃博拉疫情已经造成至少1万人死亡，自2013年12月以来，已有逾2.5万人感染埃博拉病毒。批评人士称，世卫组织迟迟没有开展动员，协调方面存在问题，而且在受影响的国家遭遇了重大的公众信任问题。
The statement said the organization favored stronger international health regulations that would require member countries to prepare for outbreaks, and a new system to independently verify whether countries were in compliance.
声明称，该组织将强化国际卫生法规，会要求成员国为应对疫情爆发做好准备，建立新机制，以独立核实各个成员国是否遵守条例。
Though it was made public on Monday, the statement was dated April 16. A spokesman for the organization said it had emerged from a regular meeting of its top policy makers.
虽然这份声明是在周一公布的，但声明发表时间是4月16日。世卫组织发言人表示，声明是在高层决策者举行例会期间发表的。
Experts said that although the statement recognized a need for change at the highest level of the organization, drafting concrete plans was harder and had only just begun.
专家们表示，虽然该声明认识到世卫组织高层需要进行改革，但制定具体计划会比较困难，一切只是刚刚开始。
The organization’s executive board, made up of representatives of 34 member states, issued a unanimous resolution in January calling on the W.H.O. to improve its capacity to detect, and respond effectively to, outbreaks and other health emergencies. In March, Dr. Chan named a panel of outside experts to review the organization’s response to Ebola. That panel is still at work.
由34个成员国组成的世卫组织执行委员会在今年1月一致通过并发布了一项决议，呼吁世卫组织提升发觉能力，有效应对疫情爆发和各种突发卫生事件。今年3月，陈冯富珍指定了一个外部专家小组，去评估该组织在应对埃博拉疫情方面的表现。
The top decision-making body at the agency, the assembly of representatives of its 194 member countries, is scheduled to meet next month in an annual session that includes final approval of the agency’s proposed budget.
该组织的最高决策机构——由194个成员国的代表组成的世界卫生大会——将于下个月举行年度会议，会议将最终批准该组织的预算方案。
Since the Ebola outbreak revealed weaknesses at the agency, proposals have been circulated to set up a new body to take over parts of its core mission, including crisis response. The first version of the statement released to reporters on Monday included a response to those proposals. “Some have said the world needs a new organization to be created,” it said. “We agree, and we want W.H.O. to be that organization.”
由于埃博拉疫情的爆发揭露了该组织的弱点，有人建议成立新机构来接管包括危机应对在内的部分核心任务。该组织周一发给记者的第一版声明还包括对这些建议的回应。“有人说需要创立一个新组织，”声明称。“我们同意，我们希望这个组织就是世卫组织。”