The leader of the World Health Organization criticized the drug industry on Monday, saying that the drive for profit was one reason no vaccine had yet been found for Ebola.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)负责人周一指责医药行业，称追求利润是至今尚未找到埃博拉疫苗的原因之一。
In a speech at a regional conference in Cotonou, Benin, Dr. Margaret Chan, the director general of the W.H.O., also denounced the glaring absence of effective public health systems in the worst-affected countries.
世卫组织总干事陈冯富珍博士(Margaret Chan)在贝宁科托努的地区性会议上发言时，还对疫情最严重的国家明显缺乏有效的公共卫生体系表示了谴责。
At least 13,567 people are known to have contracted the Ebola virus in the latest outbreak, and 4,951 have died, according to the latest data on the W.H.O. website, which was updated on Friday. All but a few of the cases have been in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.
在世卫组织的网站上，周五更新的最新数据显示，在最近这轮疫情中，至少已有13567人据知感染了埃博拉病毒，4951人死亡。除少数病例外，其他均出现在几内亚、利比里亚和塞拉利昂。
Dr. Chan said her organization had long warned of the consequences of greed in drug development and of neglect in public health.
陈冯富珍称，长期以来，世卫组织一直警告要注意药物开发过程中的贪婪，以及对公共卫生隐患的忽视会造成怎样的后果。
In the midst of the Ebola crisis, she said, these “two W.H.O. arguments that have fallen on deaf ears for decades are now out there with consequences that all the world can see, every day, on prime-time TV news.”
她说，在埃博拉危机期间，“世卫组织数十年来被当做耳边风的两个警告现在变成了现实，全世界每天都能在黄金时段的电视新闻上看到恶果。”
The Ebola virus was discovered in the Democratic Republic of Congo, then known as Zaire, in 1976. But because it was confined to impoverished African countries, Dr. Chan said, there was no incentive to develop a vaccine until this year, when Ebola became a broader threat.
1976年，当时叫作扎伊尔的刚果民主共和国发现了埃博拉病毒。但陈冯富珍说，因为该病毒当时仅出现在贫穷的非洲国家，疫苗研发缺乏动力，直到今年，埃博拉演变成了一个更广泛的威胁。
“A profit-driven industry does not invest in products for markets that cannot pay,” she said. “W.H.O. has been trying to make this issue visible for ages. Now people can see for themselves.”
“一个追逐利润的行业不会为无力购买的市场投资产品，”她说。“长期以来，世卫组织一直努力让这个问题显现出来。现在，人们能够亲眼看了。”
Dr. Chan reiterated her contention that the Ebola crisis “is the most severe acute public health emergency seen in modern times.”
陈冯富珍博士重申了她的观点，即埃博拉危机“是现代历史上最严重的突发公共卫生事件”。
Efforts to find a vaccine have been stepped up in recent months as the disease has spread, with a small outbreak in Nigeria and isolated cases in Mali, Senegal, Spain and the United States. At an emergency meeting in September, the United Nations Security Council declared the Ebola crisis a threat to international security.
最近几个月，随着疾病的蔓延，尼日利亚出现了小规模的疫情，马里、塞内加尔、西班牙和美国也出现了个别病例，寻找疫苗的努力得到了加强。在9月召开的紧急会议上，联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)宣布，埃博拉危机是构成了国际安全威胁。
Officials at the W.H.O. and at other public health authorities reported on Oct. 24 that they hoped to begin trials of vaccines as early as December, and that it should be known by April whether they are effective.
10月24日，世卫组织及其他公共卫生机构的官员报告称，他们希望最早在12月开始疫苗试验，明年4月就应该会知道疫苗是否有效。
Researchers have been testing two experimental vaccines in healthy volunteers in the United States and in other countries outside the main outbreak region in West Africa. One of them was developed by the National Institutes of Health and GlaxoSmithKline, and the other by the Canadian government and NewLink Genetics.
研究人员已经开始在美国及西非其他非主要疫区的国家的健康志愿者身上就两种试验疫苗进行测试。其中一种疫苗是由美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)和葛兰素史克公司(GlaxoSmithKline)的研究人员研发的，另一种由加拿大政府和纽琳基因公司(NewLink Genetics)研发。
Testing on humans of at least five other vaccines could begin in early 2015, W.H.O. officials have said.
世界卫生组织的官员曾表示，可能从2015年初开始在人身上测试至少其他五种疫苗。
Doctors, nurses and other health workers have been especially susceptible to infection because of the way the disease spreads through contact with fluids. In Sierra Leone on Monday, the authorities reported that a fifth local physician had died of the disease, news agencies reported.
医生、护士及其他医务人员特别容易受到感染，因为埃博拉通过与体液的接触传播。据新闻通讯社报道，塞拉利昂当局周一报告称，当地第五名医生因感染埃博拉而死亡。
The secretary general of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, speaking on Monday at a news conference in Vienna, warned against what he called overly strict international restraints on the movement of health workers who are fighting Ebola.
联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)周一在维也纳的新闻发布会上发表讲话，警告称国际社会不应该严格限制抗击埃博拉的医务人员的流动。