UNITED NATIONS — World Health Organization reported sobering new figures Tuesday about the Ebola outbreak ravaging West Africa, saying the number of new cases could reach 10,000 per week by December, about 10 times the rate of the past four weeks.
联合国——周二，世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)发布了有关西非埃博拉疫情令人警醒的最新数据，称到今年12月，每周新增病例或将达到1万例，是过去四周速度的10倍左右。
While the number of deaths so far is roughly half the number of confirmed, probable or suspected cases, the organization also said that the mortality rate is closer to 70 percent.
尽管目前的死亡人数大约是确诊、疑似或可能感染病例数的一半左右，但是该组织还表示，埃博拉的死亡率接近70%。
The updated figures were provided by Dr. Bruce Aylward, the health organization’s assistant director general, during a telephone news conference from its Geneva headquarters.
这些最新数据由世卫组织助理总干事布鲁斯·艾尔沃德博士(Bruce Aylward)在日内瓦总部举行的电话新闻发布会上提供。
He said that as of Tuesday, the total number of confirmed, probable or suspected Ebola cases over the course of the epidemic had reached 8,914, with 4,447 deaths. The vast majority are in the three most afflicted countries: Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.
他说，截至周二，确诊、疑似或可能的感染病例已达8914人，其中4447人死亡。大部分病例出现在疫情最严重的三个国家：几内亚、利比里亚，以及塞拉利昂。
Just on Friday, the organization said that the deaths totaled 4,024 — indicating that hundreds more people have died in a matter of days.
就在上周五，该组织还曾表示，死亡总数为4024人——这意味着在短短几天内又有数百人死亡。
Dr. Aylward, an infectious diseases specialist who just completed a visit to West Africa, said the survival rate was now “30 percent at most in these countries, ” even as the international campaign to fight it has escalated.
艾尔沃德是传染病专家，刚刚结束对西非的访问。他说，这些国家患者的生存率目前“顶多为30%”，尽管与此同时，国际社会已经加强了抗击埃博拉的力度。
The epidemic has continued to expand geographically and now affects more areas in the three countries than a month ago, including close to Guinea’s border with Ivory Coast, Dr. Aylward said, and the number of infections was still rising in the capitals of the three worst-hit countries.
艾尔沃德说，埃博拉疫情的范围一直在扩大，与一个月前相比，这三个国家中已有更多地区受到影响，比如毗邻科特迪瓦的几内亚边境，而在这三个疫情最严重的国家的首都，感染者人数仍在不断上升。
He described Ebola as “a high-mortality disease in any circumstance but especially in these countries.”
他形容道，埃博拉“在任何情况下死亡率都极高，但这些国家的情况尤其严重”。
Dr. Aylward said the health organization was particularly focused on isolating 70 percent of new patients in the next two months — to remove them from situations in which they can pass the disease to others and begin reversing the tide of the Ebola virus.
艾尔沃德说，接下来两个月，世卫组织将重点关注对70%的新患者实施隔离，使他们脱离能把疾病传染给他人的情境，并开始逆转埃博拉病毒的势头。
While Dr. Aylward acknowledged the recent surge in international pledges to combat Ebola’s spread, he said that without a further escalation in help over the next 60 days, “a lot more people will die.”
尽管艾尔沃德承认，国际社会最近纷纷承诺对抗埃博拉传播，但是他说，如果未来60天内帮助的力度无法进一步加大，“就会有更多人死去”。
He also expressed concern about coordination among the many medical and charitable groups that are now helping in West Africa.
对于目前在西非提供帮助的许多医疗和慈善组织之间的合作，他也表达了担忧。
“There’s a lot of actors on the ground, and an awful lot of them are working with Ebola for the first time,” he said. “The challenge right now is making sure all of that adds up to the kind of plan to stop this disease.”
“现场有许多工作者，而且很多人都是首次从事与埃博拉相关的工作，”他说。“目前的挑战是，确保所有这些努力，都能融合起来形成某种计划，从而遏制疾病的蔓延。”