Scrambling to catch up with the worst outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus, the World Health Organization announced Wednesday that it was considering the declaration of an international public health emergency and would convene a panel of experts in coming days to explore the use of experimental treatments for the incurable disease.
为了紧急应对这次最严重的埃博拉病毒爆发，世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)在周三宣布，该组织正在考虑宣布疫情已经构成国际公共卫生突发事件，将在未来几天召集专家小组商讨对这种不治之症使用试验性疗法的可能性。
The announcements came as fears spread that a Saudi citizen may have taken the Ebola virus home to Saudi Arabia, which is still reeling from a mismanaged epidemic of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome that has killed nearly 300 people in the last two years. Saudi news media said that the citizen, a businessman in his 40s, died on Wednesday at King Fahd Hospital in Jidda after exhibiting Ebola-like symptoms, and that Saudi health officials had submitted biological samples from the patient to laboratories in the United States and Germany.
沙特阿拉伯的一名公民可能携带埃博拉病毒回到国内，引发了恐慌，世卫组织的消息正是在恐慌蔓延之际发出的。在过去两年中，中东呼吸综合征没有受到有效控制，导致将近300人丧命，沙特仍然受到该疾病的影响。沙特新闻媒体报道称，周三，这名公民——40多岁的商人——在出现类似埃博拉的症状后，在位于吉达的法赫德国王医院(King Fahd Hospital)死亡，沙特的卫生官员已经将该病患的生物样本送到美国和德国的实验室。
The Saudi accounts emphasized that the illness had not yet been identified, Gregory Hartl, a spokesman for the World Health Organization in Geneva, said in an email that the patient appeared to have visited affected areas in Sierra Leone.
沙特的报道强调，疾病尚未得到确认。总部设在日内瓦的世卫组织的发言人格雷戈里·哈特尔(Gregory Hartl)在邮件中表示，这名病人似乎去过塞拉利昂的疫区。
The organization also announced 108 new Ebola cases recorded from Saturday to Monday, bringing the total to 1,711, with 932 deaths. Nearly all are in the West African countries afflicted by the outbreak: Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.
该组织还宣布，从上周六至本周一，又发现了108例埃博拉病例，总共达到1711例，死亡人数上升至932人。遭受该疾病困扰的几乎都是西非国家：几内亚、利比里亚和塞拉利昂。
But in a sign of the spread of the disease internationally, the organization listed five new cases in Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, bringing the Nigerian total to nine. The virus was discovered to have leapfrogged there by plane last week, carried by an American who had been working in Liberia and died in a Nigerian hospital.
但有迹象表明该疾病正在全球传播，该组织称非洲人口最多的国家——尼日利亚新增5例病例，总共达到9例。相关人员发现一名携带病毒的美国人上周乘坐飞机来到尼日利亚，这名一直在利比里亚工作的美国人在尼日利亚医院去世。
The health organization said an emergency committee of international experts was evaluating whether the Ebola outbreak constituted a “Public Health Emergency of International Concern,” a classification that has only rarely been invoked to combat deadly contagions. The classification gives health authorities greater powers that include quarantining people in affected areas. The committee’s recommendations are expected by Friday.
世卫组织称，一个由国际专家组成的应急委员会正在评估，埃博拉疫情的爆发能否构成“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”(Public Health Emergency of International Concern)。这个界定往往仅用于罕见的致命传染病。若采用这种界定，各国的卫生部门将拥有更大的权力，比如，可以对疫区的人员进行隔离。委员会的意见有望在周五公布。
In a separate announcement, the organization said it was convening a panel of medical ethicists to explore the use of experimental treatments for Ebola, which has a mortality rate as high as 90 percent. The virus causes high fevers, aches and severe internal bleeding.
世卫组织的另一则声明称，正在组织一批医学伦理学家研究埃博拉病毒试验性治疗的应用。埃博拉病毒能够引起高烧、疼痛和严重的内出血，致死率高达90%。
“We are in an unusual situation in this outbreak,” Dr. Marie-Paule Kieny, the organization’s assistant director general, said in the announcement. “We need to ask the medical ethicists to give us guidance on what the responsible thing to do is.”
“在这场疫情中，我们现在遇到了一个不同寻常的状况，”世卫组织的副总干事玛丽-保莱·基尼(Marie-Paule Kieny)博士在这则声明中说，“我们需要让医学伦理学家告诉我们，怎样才是负责任的做法。”
Several experimental options are under development, including a drug administered to two American health workers from Samaritan’s Purse, a Christian relief group based in Boone, N.C. They had been treating Ebola patients in Liberia and contracted the disease. Both were flown to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta and have shown improvement, causing an international debate over why Americans were given the drug when hundreds of Africans have died without access to it.
目前有几种试验性治疗正在研发之中，其中一种药物已经用于治疗撒玛利亚救援会(Samaritan's Purse)的两位美国医务工作者。撒玛利亚救援会是北卡罗来纳州布恩的一个基督教救助组织。两人是在利比里亚参与治疗埃博拉病人时被感染的，后被转至亚特兰大的艾默里大学医院(Emory University Hospital)，目前病情已出现好转，这在国际上引发了争论：为何美国人得到了药物，而数以百计非洲人死亡前却没有得到药物。