The World Health Organization announced Tuesday morning that Guinea was free of Ebola virus transmission for the first time since the epidemic was detected there in March 2014.
世界卫生组织于周二上午宣布，自从几内亚在2014年3月发现埃博拉疫情以来，该国首次结束了埃博拉病毒的传播。
All three of the West African countries hardest hit by the epidemic — Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone — have now documented stopping the original chain of infections that experts believe began in December 2013 with the undiagnosed illness of a young boy, Emile, in the village of Meliandou in Guinea’s forest region.
三个埃博拉疫情严重的西非国家— —几内亚、利比里亚和塞拉利昂— —目前的记录都表明它们已经终止了最初的传染链，专家们认为这个传播链始于2013年12月，当时小男孩埃米尔(Emile)的疾病未得到确诊，他生前住在几内亚森林地区的墨利安杜村。
“This is a very big victory for the nation and the people of Guinea,” said Fode Tass Sylla, a spokesman for the country’s Ebola task force. He thanked other countries, the health organization and private charities for their support.
“这对几内亚国家和人民来说是一个非常大的胜利，”几内亚抗击埃博拉行动发言人福德·塔斯·塞拉(Fode Tass Sylla)说。他对其他国家、世界卫生组织，以及私人慈善机构的支持表示感谢。
Two 21-day incubation cycles of the virus have passed since the last person in Guinea with the illness, a 3-week-old girl, twice tested negative for the virus. The country now enters a three-month period of heightened surveillance during which the virus could re-emerge, as it has done twice in neighboring Liberia after that country ended transmission. (In mid-January, human-to-human transmission linked to those cases could be declared ended.)
几内亚的最后一位埃博拉患者是一个3周大的女婴，自从她的两次病毒检测均呈阴性之后，两个潜伏期已经过去，埃博拉病毒的潜伏期是21天。目前，几内亚全国进入了三个月的高度监测期，其间病毒可能会复发。这种情况曾在邻国利比里亚发生，埃博拉病毒曾在利比亚结束传播后两度再现。（明年1月中旬可能会宣布与这些重现病毒有关的、人到人传播的结束。）
“We will continue to monitor the situation,” Guinea’s minister of health, Col. Rémy Lamah, a physician, said in a telephone interview. “I congratulate everybody who participated in the fight against Ebola.”
“我们将继续监视有关情况，”几内亚卫生部长、身为医生的雷米·拉马上校在接受电话采访时说。“我向所有参加抗击埃博拉病毒的人表示祝贺。”
The epidemic killed more than 11,000 people and sickened more than 28,000 across 10 countries, according to estimates released by the World Health Organization. Responders initially failed to recognize the extent and danger of the outbreak, which quickly crossed borders and inspired fear all over the world.
据世界卫生组织发布的估计，这次埃博拉病毒爆发导致11万以上的人死亡，并在10个国家导致逾28万人患病。流行性疾病的应对者对这次爆发的范围和危险程度最初没有认识到，让病毒得以迅速跨国界传播，在世界各地引起恐慌。
Since then, local, regional and international efforts have been made to end the outbreak.
自那以后，为结束这次爆发，地方、区域和国际社会做出了大量努力。
“It’s important to take a pause and be thankful for where we’ve arrived at and get to work rebuilding that health system and making it more resilient for the future,” said Dr. Rick Brennan, director of Ebola response and coordination at the health organization’s headquarters in Geneva.
“停顿一下，为我们目前的成就感到欣慰，并让我们开始重建该卫生系统、使其在未来更具韧性，是很重要的，”在日内瓦世界卫生组织总部主管埃博拉病毒协调响应的瑞克·布伦南(Rick Brennan)博士说。
The Guinean government announced plans for a celebration with well-known musicians on Wednesday in Conakry, the capital, although some residents said that the country should instead focus on prayer and mourning the dead. Some Guineans expressed hope that the declaration would lead to a resumption of international trade and travel.
几内亚政府宣布了周三在首都科纳克里举行有知名歌手参加的庆祝活动的计划，但也有一些居民表示，国家应该把精力集中在祈祷和哀悼死者上。有些几内亚人对这一宣布将有助于恢复国际贸易和旅游表达了希望。
“I think now I will get my visa to go to China to buy my goods,” said Dian Diallo, a food importer working in the vast Madina market in Conakry.
“我想，我现在能拿到签证去中国购买货物了，”在科纳克里巨大的马迪纳市场工作的食品进口商迪安·迪亚洛(Dian Diallo)说。
“I did not go to hajj this year, and I hope to go to Mecca in 2016 if there is no Ebola,” Mr. Diallo said.
迪亚洛说，“我今年没去朝觐，希望2016年能去麦加，如果不爆发埃博拉病毒的话。”
Other Guineans, however, were still focused on what was lost. Camara Fode Abdulai, a fruit seller who survived Ebola, spoke through tears as he described the deaths of 13 members of his family from the disease. He said he worried that other countries would not act quickly enough if another outbreak emerged, adding that customers and even friends still fear coming near him. “Today, I am not doing any business,” he said.
但其他几内亚人的注意力仍集中在其所失上。卖水果的卡马拉·福德·阿卜杜拉(Camara Fode Abdulai)是埃博拉病毒的幸存者，他流着泪讲述了他家死于该病的13名成员。他说他担心，如果病毒再次爆发的话，其他国家不会尽快采取行动，他还说，客户、甚至朋友仍害怕与他接近。“我今天什么生意都没有，”他说。
The World Health Organization has documented 10 episodes since March in which a flare-up of Ebola has been linked to the persistence of the virus in certain parts of survivors’ bodies, including the testes. Scientific investigations pointed to sexual transmission in several cases. One baby is thought to have contracted Ebola from the breast milk of a survivor.
自今年3月以来，世界卫生组织已记录到10次埃博拉的复发，这些复发与继续存在于幸存者包括睾丸在内的身体某些部分的埃博拉病毒有关。科学研究也发现了几例通过性传播的情况。还一个婴儿被认为是从幸存者的母乳中感染了埃博拉病毒。
Yet in other cases, how the virus re-emerged to cause illness remains a mystery. In November, two brothers and their father contracted the disease in Liberia many weeks after Ebola transmission had ended there. Genetic sequencing showed the virus in the boys to be nearly identical to a strain that had circulated in that country in August 2014, suggesting that it had come from a survivor, according to Dr. Mosoka Fallah, an Ebola response coordinator for the Liberian Ministry of Health.
然而，在许多情况下，病毒如何重新出现导致疾病仍是一个谜。今年11月，埃博拉的传播在利比里亚结束了好几周之后，两个兄弟和他们的父亲感染了病毒。据利比里亚卫生部的埃博拉响应协调员莫索卡·法拉赫(Mosoka Fallah)博士的说法，基因测序显示，那两个男孩身上的病毒与该国2014年8月爆发的病毒株几乎相同，这表明病毒来自一名幸存者。
He added, however, that scientists reported on Monday that they had been unable to derive genetic sequences from samples that might have established a precise link to the new cases.
但法拉赫补充说，科学家周一的报告说，他们没有能够从可能与新病例建立确切联系的样品中得到基因序列。
Dr. Brennan said the World Health Organization was exploring experimental drugs that may help eradicate the last traces of Ebola in people with persistent virus, and experimental vaccines that could help protect their intimate contacts.
布伦南说，世界卫生组织正在探索一些可能有助于消除持续留在人体里的埃博拉病毒的实验性药物，也在探索可能帮助保护与病毒残留体内者有密切接触的人的试验性疫苗。