Watching a talented writer take a risk is one of the pleasures of devoted reading, and “On Such a Full Sea” provides all that and more. It’s a wonderful addition not only to Chang-rae Lee’s body of work but to the ranks of “serious” writers venturing into the realm of dystopian fantasy. Colson Whitehead, Cormac McCarthy and Margaret Atwood (in her recently concluded MaddAddam trilogy) have all tackled this genre. Doris Lessing’s “Mara and Dann” is a classic, as is Anthony Burgess’s “Clockwork Orange.” Further back in time, one has only to think of Orwell, Huxley and Wells, even Jack London and Mary Shelley. As the author of such carefully realist fiction as “Native Speaker” and “A Gesture Life,” Lee has always been preoccupied by the themes of hope and betrayal, by the tensions that arise in small lives in the midst of great social change. His marvelous new book, which imagines a future after the breakdown of our own society, takes on those concerns with his customary mastery of quiet detail — and a touch of the fantastic.
看着一个天才作家冒险是专注阅读的乐趣之一，《在如此完满的大海上》(On Such a Full Sea)可以满足这种乐趣，而且不止于此。这部小说不仅为李昌来(Chang-rae Lee)本人的作品，也为冒险进入反乌托邦幻想题材的所有“严肃”作家的作品添上了精彩的一笔。科尔森·怀特海德(Colson Whitehead)、戈马克·麦卡锡(Cormac McCarthy)和玛格丽特·阿特伍德(Margaret Atwood，她最近刚完成《MaddAddam》三部曲）都尝试过这个题材。多丽丝·莱辛(Doris Lessing)的《玛拉和丹恩历险记》(Mara and Dann)是经典之作，安东尼·伯吉斯(Anthony Burgess)的《发条橙》(Clockwork Orange)也是如此。往前追溯，你可以想想奥威尔(Orwell)、赫胥黎(Huxley)和威尔斯(Wells)，甚至杰克·伦敦(Jack London)和玛丽·雪莱(Mary Shelley)。李昌来以前写的小说都是谨慎的现实主义作品，比如《说母语的人》(Native Speaker)和《手势人生》(A Gesture Life)，他一直专注于讲述希望与背叛以及普通人在剧烈社会变革中的压力。他精彩的新书设想的是我们的社会崩溃后的未来，他用一贯的对安静细节的描绘技巧继续关注这些主题——同时带有一点魔幻色彩。
There are no robots or cannibals in Lee’s future. Instead, “On Such a Full Sea” takes place in an almost familiar world, one whose cities were long ago rendered unlivable by polluted air and water, forcing whole societies to relocate. This time, America’s colonizers come from Asia. “Our people arrived from New China, truly ancient times,” we are told. “There was very little to encounter by way of an indigenous population.”
李昌来笔下的未来世界里，没有机器人或食人族。相反，《在如此完满的大海上》的世界我们似曾相识，因为空气和水污染，城市早就不能居住了，迫使很多社会整体迁移。这一次，美国的殖民者来自亚洲。“我们的人民来自新中国，那是很久以前的事情，”书中说，“当时我们没见到多少土著居民。”
The novel begins long after New China’s influence has taken hold, creating a tripartite society that, after generations of success, has begun to show its age. To outline it too clearly would ruin the suspense surrounding the discovery of just how this world came to be, but suffice it to say that the upper, middle and lower classes have separated into different realms of existence, a future not impossible for today’s readers to envision.
小说开始的时候，新中国的影响力已经为大家所接受，它创造了一个分为三个阶层的社会。这个社会在经历数代繁荣之后，开始显露老态。说得太清楚将毁掉这个社会何以如此的悬念，但是说明下面这一点就够了：上层、中层和下层已经分裂成不同的生存国度，这样的未来是今天的读者可以想见的。
Fan, the novel’s 16-year-old protagonist — “not beautiful but rather distinctive in her presence” — begins her life in the middle-tier world, as a diver in the untroubled, prosperous labor settlement of ­B-Mor. A conservative, homogeneous place, B-Mor offers an array of simple comforts: “We’re no longer fit for any harsher brand of life.” Daily activity goes according to a strict plan, and even Fan’s older brother’s promotion out of the community leaves no sign of disturbance. Then one day her lover, Reg, disappears — with no explanation, leaving no trace. This unravels poor Fan so swiftly that she does the unthinkable: She leaves the guarded enclave of B-Mor for the wilds of the surrounding “counties,” desperately searching for Reg.
这部小说16岁的女主人公范(Fan)“不美丽，但是很独特”，一开始她生活在中层社会里。她是一名潜水者，生活在无忧无虑、繁荣昌盛的工人聚居区B-Mor。B-Mor是个保守的地方，那里生活的都是同一类人，他们过着简单的舒适生活：“我们不再适应更艰苦的生活。”每天的活动严格按照计划进行，甚至连范的哥哥离开这个社区进入上一层社会都没造成任何波澜。有一天范的恋人雷格(Reg)失踪了——没有任何说法，没留下任何踪迹。这让可怜的范迅速崩溃，她做出了不可思议的事：她离开B-Mor这块被监视的飞地，来到周围“那些县”的荒野中，拼命寻找雷格。
“The funny thing about the tale of Fan,” we are told, “is that much of what happened to her happened to her.” She’s just a teenager, after all; her story is not that of Katniss “catching fire” but simply that of “a girl with a love who was lost,” moving among various strata of society according to the kindness or venality of those who cross her path. The first one to find her, wounded on a county road, is a bearded older man named Quig, who brings her back to the “Smokes,” where his compound provides medical help to the hopeless and the impoverished. Though ramshackle, the world of the “county” is not that of Thunderdome; it’s simply what our own poor, rural areas would become if the government turned its back forever.
“范的故事的有趣之处在于，”书中说，“她的故事大多是真实发生在她身上的。”毕竟她只是个十几岁的孩子，她的故事不是凯特尼斯(Katniss)的那种“星火燎原”的故事，而只是“一个失去恋人的女孩”的故事，她在不同的社会阶层之间游走，一路上遇到了一些好人，也遇到了一些唯利是图的人。第一个发现她的人是个留着胡子的年长的男人，名叫奎格(Quig)，他在县里的路上发现了受伤的她，把她带回“Smokes”，那里给无望的人和贫困的人提供医疗帮助。“县”里虽然破败不堪，但也不是《Thunderdome》中那样的世界，它只是我们贫穷的乡村未来的样子——如果政府永远弃之不顾的话。
We soon learn that Quig is not originally from the counties, and the story of his fall from grace is a devastating reminder of how, in an ungoverned world, the fortunes of even the greatest can hang by a thread. From the counties, Fan eventually finds her way to the highest world — the rarefied realm of the Charters, where she hopes she might be reunited with her brother and Reg — but not before she experiences the savagery of people who have nothing to lose. And Lee isn’t just talking about the impoverished.
我们很快得知，奎格最初不是生活在“县里”，他从上层社会沦落下来的故事令人触目惊心：在一个无法无天的世界里，连最优秀的人的财富也危在旦夕。范从“县”里最终找到去往上层社会的方法，那里是特权阶层高贵的世界，她希望在那里与哥哥和雷格团聚，不过在那之前，她先体验了那些一无所有者的原始生活状态。李昌来说的不只是穷人。
Lee’s most interesting choice is his narrator, the collective “we” of the B-Mor community, which changes the novel from an adventure story into a myth in the midst of creation: “The more we follow the turns of her journey, the more we realize that she is not quite the champion we would normally sing; she is not the heroine who wields the great sword. . . . She is one of the ranks, this perfectly ordinary, exquisitely tiny person in whom we will reside, via both living and dreaming.” For there is trouble in B-Mor. This fishing compound, with its regimented social codes, finds itself falling apart after Fan’s departure: The rich Charters are buying fewer fish; the community’s facilities are being defaced with litter and rebellious graffiti; angry crowds are gathering; and a disease known as “C-illness” imperils everyone. For the people of ­B-Mor, Fan’s story becomes a search for a savior: “Within her was the one promise that could deliver us, the seed of all our futures.” And so the people of B-Mor tell her story to themselves, as solace and as explanation. But they aren’t the only ones who see salvation, and profit, in Fan.
李昌来最有趣的做法是他让B-Mor社区所有的人——“我们”——来讲述这个故事，把小说从历险故事变成了一个创作中的神话：“我们对她旅途中的曲折故事了解越多，就越意识到她不是我们通常颂扬的勇士，她不是挥舞宝剑的女英雄……她只是个普通士兵，是我们这样非常平凡、特别渺小的人物，我们将活在她的世界里，和她一起梦想。”因为B-Mor出现了问题。这个受到严格社会规则制约的渔业社区在范离开后开始崩溃：富有的特权阶层不再买那么多鱼了；社区的设施因为乱扔垃圾和反叛涂鸦变得丑陋；愤怒的人群在集会；一种名为“C病”的疾病在威胁每个人的生命。对B-Mor的人来说，范的故事成了对救世主的追寻：“她身上带着拯救我们的唯一希望，她是我们所有人未来的希望。”所以B-Mor的人传颂着她的故事，以此作为安慰和解释。但是他们不是唯一在范身上看到拯救和利益的人。
The price for this narrative choice is that Lee’s heroine remains a bit of a cipher, and some later sections of the novel suffer from longueurs as a result. But the payoff is a remarkable elasticity, allowing Lee to move from an omniscient bird’s-eye view to an intimate exploration of inner lives to wholly convincing fantasy. The communal voice is particularly riveting when Fan is in danger — “And we can barely recount what was about to happen next . . . ” — adding a creeping horror to the storytelling. It’s proof of Lee’s virtuosity that he can pull off such a feat without allowing his audience to feel anything but narrative drive.
这种叙述方法的代价是女主人公仍然像个谜，而且小说后半部分的某些章节有点冗长乏味。但它的好处是具有很大的灵活性，让作者既能从无所不知的俯瞰角度描述，也能私密地探索人物的内心世界，还能进行很有说服力的幻想。当范遇到危险时，社区的声音变得特别吸引人，比如“我们几乎无法描述接下来发生的事情……”，给故事增添了一种让人毛骨悚然的恐怖气氛。这证明李昌来的写作技巧十分精湛，他在使用这种技巧时，读者毫无察觉，只以为那是叙述的驱动力。
A reader hoping for weird mutants and wild conflagrations has picked up the wrong book; Lee’s influence is more Philip Roth than Philip K. Dick. Although he peppers “On Such a Full Sea” with some genre pleasures — suspiciously friendly (and hungry) strangers; the decadent rich — Fan’s journey through a mysterious future turns out to be a timeless exploration of the human condition. Perfection leads to stagnation, success precludes passion, desperation births cruelty, and within each character we sense desire trying to claw its way out. Yet for all except “ordinary” Fan, there is no way out.
想寻找古怪的变种人或疯狂冲突景象的读者就不要看这本书了。曾经影响李昌来的人是菲利普·罗斯(Philip Roth)，不是菲利普·K·迪克(Philip K. Dick)。虽然他在《在如此完满的大海上》点缀了一些这类题材的乐事——友善到可疑（而且饥肠辘辘）的陌生人；颓废的富人——范在神秘未来的旅行最后变成了对人类境况的永恒探索。完美带来停滞；成功阻碍激情；绝望滋生残忍。我们在每个人物身上都能感到拼命寻找出路的欲望。但是除了“平凡的”范，其他人都没有出路。
In a scene that could fit easily into his previous novels, Lee sets the members of a love triangle, a woman and two men, in a Charter swimming pool. As the men begin their laps, a wordless battle takes place that ends in blood but not in violence. “All she knew,” we are told, as an onlooker watches the shamed loser, “was that he was staring at her with the deadest eyes.” Scenes like these show where Lee’s interests truly lie. With “On Such a Full Sea,” he has found a new way to explore his old preoccupation: the oft-told tale of the desperate, betraying, lonely human heart.
其中有一幕可以轻松放入他之前的任何一本小说中。在这一幕里，李昌来把一段三角恋爱关系的成员——一个女人和两个男人，放到一个特权阶层的游泳池里。这两个男人开始游泳时，一场无声的战斗发生了，最后以流血收场，但是没有暴力。书中告诉我们，一个旁观者看着那个羞愧的失败者，“她只知道，他用最绝望的眼神看着她。”这样的场景透露出李昌来兴趣的真正所在。通过《在如此完满的大海上》，他找到了一个新办法，探究自己的老主题：被反复讲述的关于绝望、背叛、孤独的人类心灵的故事。