RIO DE JANEIRO — Brazil’s list of feats since ending authoritarian rule in the 1980s is as long as it is varied, including antipoverty programs pulling millions into the middle class, the democratic election of presidents who suffered indignities under the dictatorship and the surging growth of tropical agriculture to help feed the world.
里约热内卢——自从上世纪80年代结束独裁统治以来，巴西在不同领域取得了无数骄人成绩，比如，通过扶贫项目让数百万人跻身中产阶级，曾受到独裁统治打压的候选人通过民主选举成为总统，此外，巴西蓬勃发展的热带农业正在为其他国家提供粮食。
But instead of coming together to extol such triumphs on the global stage as the host of the World Cup, the soccer tournament starting on Thursday with teams from 32 countries, a grim mood is dividing many Brazilians as resentment simmers over the ballooning costs of the mega-event and a sluggish post-boom economy saps optimism.
但作为本届世界杯的主办国，巴西人没有团结在一起在国际舞台上展示上述成就，恰恰相反，由于举办这个盛大赛事的成本不断上升所引发的不满不断发酵，加上后繁荣时期的低迷经济打击了乐观情绪，一种愤懑的情绪正在让许多巴西人对立起来。本届世界杯足球赛将于本周四开幕，将有32个国家的队伍参赛。
While thousands poured into the streets in 2007 to celebrate Brazil’s winning bid to host the World Cup, bitter strikes are now roiling major cities. In São Paulo, where the opening match between Brazil and Croatia is just days away, riot police on Monday used tear gas to disperse striking subway workers. Brazilian legends of the sport, from Ronaldo to Romário, are voicing shame and disgust over troubled preparations in the nation which has won the World Cup five times, more than any other.
尽管在2007年有成千上万人涌上街头庆祝巴西赢得世界杯主办权，如今，愤怒的罢工活动却正在搅动巴西各大城市。在巴西队和克罗地亚队几天后举行首场比赛的圣保罗，周一，防暴警察用催泪瓦斯驱散了罢工的地铁工人。从罗纳尔多(Ronaldo)到罗马里奥(Romário)，巴西足球界的传奇人物都在表达着对该国混乱准备工作的失望和愤慨。巴西已经五次赢得世界杯，是获得这一殊荣最多的国家。
“This is the strangest atmosphere I’ve ever witnessed in Brazil before a World Cup, as apprehension and apathy threaten the normal excitement,” said Antonio Risério, a historian who explores soccer’s role in shaping Brazil’s national identity.
研究足球如何塑造巴西民族身份的历史学者安东尼奥·里塞里奥(Antonio Risério)说，“这是我在巴西所见到的世界杯之前最奇怪的氛围。”
Only 34 percent of Brazilians think the World Cup will help the economy, which is in its fourth straight year of slow growth, according to a survey by the Pew Research Center. Thirty-nine percent say the tournament will actually hurt Brazil’s image around the world, according to the face-to-face survey of 1,003 randomly selected adults from across the country.
只有34%的巴西人认为，世界杯将对该国经济有益。根据皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的一项调查，巴西经济已经连续四年增长缓慢。对全国任意挑选的1003名成年人面对面的采访调查发现，39%的人表示，世界杯实际上将有损巴西在世界的形象。
More than 200 million people live in Brazil, Latin America’s largest democracy, and the country has about as many opinions on hosting the World Cup. President Dilma Rousseff, in an interview last week in Brasília, defended loans from state banks for building lavish World Cup stadiums, and said Brazilians were gearing up to embrace the tournament.
巴西有超过2亿人口，是拉丁美洲最大的民主国家，而对于主办世界杯一事，人们的看法也各不相同。上周在巴西利亚接受采访时，巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)为使用国有银行贷款来修建豪华的世界杯体育场进行了辩护，她说，巴西人正全力准备迎接世界杯。
“The closer we get to the Cup, the more Brazil is going to show its passion for soccer,” Ms. Rousseff said.
“世界杯越临近，巴西人对足球的热情就越高涨。”罗塞夫说。
But during an election year in which political analysts are arguing over the influence which the Cup’s outcome may have on presidential campaigns, with Ms. Rousseff’s government clearly hoping for a tournament unmarred by major problems and a strong showing by Brazil’s national team, signs of such enthusiasm still remain somewhat sparse.
但在这个大选年，政治分析人士正在为世界杯的结果可能对大选产生何种影响争论得不可开交，尽管罗塞夫政府显然希望本届比赛不会因为严重问题而受到影响，而且巴西国家队能够有强劲表现，她所说的那种热情的迹象似乎仍然寥寥无几。
The sense of malaise is partly about the preparations for the World Cup itself, but also reflects a deeper, underlying anxiety about the direction of the country as the economic slump has persisted amid waves of anti-government protests, reflecting demands for better services from the growing middle class. 
这种不满情绪有一部分是针对世界杯的准备工作，但也反映出，人们对国家走向的更深层次的潜在的焦虑。与此同时，由于经济的持续低迷，反政府游行活动接连不断，这些游行反映了日益庞大的中产阶级对更好的公共服务的诉求。
While the national team is still received warmly in many places, the players had to pass through a gantlet of protesters here in Rio de Janeiro this month on their way to their luxurious training camp in the mountains above the city. The chant of the striking teachers who led the protest: “An educator is worth more than Neymar.”
尽管国家队在许多地方仍然会受到热情欢迎，本月，在里约热内卢，球员们需要穿过夹道的抗议者，才能前往他们位于附近山中的豪华培训营。领导抗议活动的罢工教师的口号是：“一个教育工作者的价值高于内尔马(Neymar)。”
“That talk about the national team being the patrimony of Brazil, the affirmation of our identity and civility and cordiality, no one swallows that anymore,” said Arnaldo Bloch, a columnist for the newspaper O Globo.
《环球报》(O Globo)的专栏作者阿纳尔多·布洛什(Arnaldo Bloch)说，“关于国家队是巴西的财富，是我们的身份、文明和热情传统的象征的说法，已经没有人再买账了。”
Despite the tension surrounding the Cup, many Brazilians point out that the country has a tradition of warmly receiving foreign visitors, while pulling together at the last minute complex events like the Pan-American Games in 2007 or last year’s World Youth Day, an international conference of Catholic youth which featured a visit by Pope Francis.
尽管世界杯引发了紧张情绪，许多巴西人说，巴西拥有热情好客的传统，而且总是能在最后时刻把复杂的活动组织起来，比如2007年的泛美运动会(Pan-American Games)，以及去年教皇方济各(Pope Francis)到访的世界青年日(World Youth Day)活动，那是一个由天主教青年参加的国际会议。
If Brazil starts winning, some contend that optimism will surge around the first World Cup in the country since 1950, and easily exceed the low expectations. “People are worried about how much has been spent,” said José Evaraldo Bezerra, 48, a doorman at a residential building in Brasília. “But once we see the first game, the parties will start.”
一些人认为，如果巴西队开始赢得比赛，围绕这次世界杯的乐观情绪就会升温，轻松超出较低的预期。这是巴西1950年之后首次主办世界杯。“人们担心的是花了多少钱，”巴西利亚48岁的居民楼门卫若泽·艾华拉度·贝泽拉 (José Evaraldo Bezerra)说。“但一旦我们看到了比赛，人们就会开始狂欢。”
Still, ire over Brazil’s handling of the tournament remains widespread over the estimated $11 billion cost of hosting the tournament, including subsidized loans for stadiums in cities like Brasília the capital; Cuiabá, a remote agribusiness center; and Manaus, an industrial hub deep in the Amazon, with paltry soccer fan bases.
不过，人们对本届世界杯大约110亿美元的主办成本仍然普遍感到愤怒，其中包括为建设球场发放的补贴贷款。建设了球场的城市包括，首都巴西利亚；库亚巴，一个遥远的农业中心；马瑙斯，一个位于亚马逊雨林深处的工业中心，在那里，喜欢足球的人并不多。
More than 100,000 people celebrated in Manaus when it was chosen as a host city, but that sentiment has shifted. “Why does a city like Manaus need an expensive and luxurious stadium when a few meters away there’s a neighborhood, Alvorada, without sidewalks and treated sewage?” asked Milton Hatoum, a writer from Manaus.
当被选为主办城市时，超过10万人在马瑙斯举行了庆祝活动，但如今，人们的情绪已经转变。“像马瑙斯这样的城市为什么需要一个昂贵奢华的体育馆？体育馆几米之外的阿尔沃拉达社区连人行道和污水处理系统都没有，”马瑙斯的作家米尔顿·哈透姆(Milton Hatoum)说。
In what may prove to be one of the World Cup’s legacies, and perhaps even a parable to other countries with ambitions of hosting the tournament, others in Brazil’s thriving but imperfect democracy are questioning why the country sought such a massive undertaking when its institutions already had trouble delivering on more mundane matters.
在巴西这个蓬勃发展但仍不完美的民主国家，还有一些人在质疑，在政府机构已经难以应付更普通的事务的情况下，为什么要主动寻求这样大规模活动的主办工作。这种言论暴露出的问题可能是世界杯的遗产之一，甚至可能成为其他跃跃欲试申办世界杯的国家的前车之鉴。
“We’re the country of winging it, and that same characteristic which makes our soccer shine keeps us in an idyllic position in relation to any project,” said Helio Gurovitz, editor of Época, a weekly newsmagazine. “We plan poorly, monitor even worse, leave everything until the last hour and believe it will work out in the end,” he added. “Until, one day, it doesn’t.”
“我们是一个即兴而为的国家，这个特点让我们的足球运动大放异彩，也让我们面对任何项目都气定神闲，”巴西新闻类周刊《时代》(Época)的编辑埃利奥·古罗维茨(Helio Gurovitz)说。“我们的规划是糟糕的，监管更糟糕，把一切都留到最后一刻，相信船到桥头自然直，”他补充说。“直到有一天，我们真的把事情搞砸了。”