Natalia Molchanova, widely regarded as the greatest free diver in history, wore her favorite purple wet suit Sunday on a chartered boat off the coast of Formentera, an island near Ibiza. Only 1.5 millimeters thick, the wet suit was low buoyancy, designed specifically for divers like her who want to go deep on a single breath. It was a Molchanova, the brand she started with her son, Alexey.
纳塔利娅·莫尔查诺娃(Natalia Molchanova)被公认为史上最伟大的自由潜水运动员。周日（8月2日），她搭乘一艘租来的小船，驶离伊比沙岛附近的福门特拉岛。她在船上穿上自己最喜欢的紫色潜水衣。这件潜水衣只有1.5毫米厚，浮力很小，是专为她这种仅凭一次闭气进行深潜的人设计的。潜水衣的品牌是莫尔查诺娃(Molchanova)，这个品牌是她和儿子阿列克谢(Alexey)开创的。
With clear skies and a light breeze on the Balearic Sea, off the eastern coast of Spain, Molchanova attached a neck weight — a pound or two, at most — that would help her descend. Then she dipped into the water to begin what divers call breathing up. A lower heart rate enables divers to use precious oxygen more efficiently. To relax deeply, Molchanova would inhale for a few seconds, then exhale twice as long and twice as deep.
当天，西班牙东海岸的巴利阿里海上万里无云，微风轻拂。莫尔查诺娃在颈部加了配重，最多只有一两磅，用来帮她下沉。然后她浸入水中，开始潜水员所说的呼吸。较低的心率能让潜水员更有效地利用珍贵的氧气。为了深度放松，莫尔查诺娃会吸气几秒钟，然后用两倍的时长和深度呼气。
Those were among Molchanova’s last breaths. She then proceeded to attempt a recreational dive to a depth that was modest for her, and she never resurfaced. After two days of intense search efforts, Alexey said Tuesday afternoon that his mother, 53, was not expected to be found alive.
那是莫尔查诺娃最后几次呼吸。然后她开始尝试一次消遣性的潜水，潜到对她来说最轻松的一个深度，但她没再上来。经过两天密集搜寻之后，周二（8月4日）下午，阿列克谢说，他53岁的妈妈不可能生还了。
“She was a free-diving superstar and we all thought nothing could harm her,” said Kimmo Lahtinen, the president of the global federation for free diving, known as AIDA. “Nothing could happen to her, but, you know, we are playing with the ocean, and when you play with the ocean you know who is the strongest one.”
“她是自由潜水超级明星，我们都以为没什么能伤害她，”国际自由潜水发展联合会(AIDA)主席基莫·拉赫蒂宁(Kimmo Lahtinen)说，“我们以为她不会出任何意外，但是，你知道，我们是在和海洋搏斗。当你和海洋搏斗时，你知道谁更强。”
Molchanova, a Russian who holds dozens of world records, was not aiming for the record books Sunday. Rather, she and three fellow divers were taking a few dives for fun, Alexey said. Molchanova’s record dive without the use of fins is 71 meters (about 233 feet), set in May in Dahab, Egypt. She set the record along a line used to measure depth and to tether the diver in case of emergency.
莫尔查诺娃是俄罗斯人，是几十项世界记录的保持者。而在周日，她去潜水并不是为了创造记录。阿列克谢说，她和三位潜伴只是想去潜水娱乐一下。莫尔查诺娃不使用脚蹼潜水的最深记录是71米，是今年5月在埃及宰海卜创造的。当时她沿着一根绳子下潜，绳子是用来测量水深的，同时用来拴住潜水员，以防万一。
There was no such line Sunday, two miles west of La Savina at Poniente de es Freus, a part of the sea where currents at the surface and at depth can be unpredictable and powerful. Was she swept away by a strong current? Did she black out? Was there a shark? Did she hit her head on something?
周日那次潜水，没有这样的绳子。当时的位置是在拉萨维纳(La Savina)以西两英里处，那部分海域的表层和深层水流不可预知，非常强大。她是被强大的水流冲走了吗？她是晕过去了吗？有没有鲨鱼？她的头撞上什么东西了吗？
When Molchanova failed to surface after her dive, her fellow divers conducted a brief search before calling for help via radio. A flotilla of private boats and the local Coast Guard deployed. Air support was added from a Helimar 213 chopper, and the search lasted until dark. It resumed Monday morning.
莫尔查诺娃的同伴们发现她潜水后没有浮上来，先进行了大致的搜寻，然后通过无线电呼救。几艘私人船只组成的小型船队和当地的海岸护卫队展开搜寻。后来，一架Helimar 213直升机也加入进来，进行空中支援，搜寻一直持续到天黑。周一早上继续进行。
Molchanova remained missing Tuesday, when the search expanded to include the use of an underwater robot capable of searching a radius of nearly 500 meters at depth.
周二，一个水下机器人加入搜寻，它能搜寻半径近500米深度的范围，但是仍未找到莫尔查诺娃。
The water temperature in the area was about 79 degrees, though a layer of water known as a thermocline can be 10 to 15 degrees cooler about 65 feet below the surface. Such a variance can shock a diver’s system.
这一海域的水温约为79华氏度（大致相当于26摄氏度），但是水面以下约65英尺（大约相当于20米）处的温跃层的水温可能降低10至15度。这样的温差可能对潜水员的人体机能造成冲击。
“The world has lost its greatest free diver,” said Will Trubridge, a 15-time world-record holder in the sport. “I don’t think anybody would dispute that.”
“我们失去了世界上最伟大的自由潜水员，”威尔·特鲁布里奇(Will Trubridge)说。他曾15次打破这项运动的世界纪录。“我想没人会质疑这一点。”
Molchanova was first a competitive swimmer in Russia before leaving the sport to have a family. After picking up free diving about 20 years later, she went on to set 41 world records and claim 23 world champion titles.
莫尔查诺娃是俄罗斯的第一位竞技游泳选手。后来她退役组建家庭。大约20年后，她开始自由潜水运动，创造了41项世界记录，获得23个世界冠军头衔。
Free diving includes three pool disciplines: static apnea, in which a diver goes face down in a pool and floats holding her breath as long as possible (Molchanova’s world record is 9 minutes 2 seconds); dynamic, in which a diver swims as many pool lengths as possible underwater on one breath with a monofin (her record is 237 meters, or about 778 feet); and dynamic no fins, in which she does the same thing using a breaststroke (her record is 182 meters, or almost 600 feet).
在泳池里进行的自由潜水比赛包括三个项目：静态闭气，潜水者脸朝下，屏住呼吸漂浮尽可能长的时间（莫尔查诺娃的世界记录是9分2秒）；动态有蹼，潜水者穿单脚蹼一口气在水下游过尽可能长的距离（她的记录是237米）；动态无蹼，不穿脚蹼用蛙泳姿势闭气游泳（她的记录是182米）。
For Molchanova and Alexey, who is also a competitive diver, the pool was always a mere training ground. They preferred to go deep. “Compared to the ocean,” she once said, “the pool is like running on a treadmill versus running in the forest.”
对莫尔查诺娃和阿列克谢（他也是竞技潜水选手）来说，泳池永远只是训练场地。他们更喜欢往深处潜水。她曾经说过，“在泳池里潜水就像在跑步机上跑步，而在大海里潜水就像在森林里跑步。”
There are three depth disciplines in competitive free diving. In constant weight, a diver swims as deeply as possible on one breath with a monofin. Any weight they choose to wear on the way down, they must carry back to the surface. Molchanova became the only woman in the sport’s history to break the mythic 100-meter barrier, at the world championships in Kalamata, Greece, in 2013. The same year, Alexey set a men’s record in the same discipline with a dive to 128 meters, or almost 420 feet.
自由潜水比赛有三个深度项目。在恒重有蹼项目中，潜水员穿单脚蹼屏一口气尽量往深处潜。他们下潜时选择的任何配重必须带回水面。2013年，在希腊卡拉马塔的世界锦标赛上，莫尔查诺娃成为这项运动历史上唯一一个突破神话般的100米深度的女选手。同一年，阿列克谢创造了同一项目的男子世界纪录，下潜至128米。
Molchanova also holds the no-fins record and the record for free immersion, in which a diver pulls along a line to depth and back again to the surface. Her record is 91 meters, nearly 100 yards.
莫尔查诺娃还保持着无蹼潜水和自由攀绳下潜的世界纪录。她的纪录是91米。
“Free diving is not only sport, it’s a way to understand who we are,” Molchanova said in an interview last year. “When we go down if we don’t think, we understand we are whole. We are one with world. When we think we are separate. On surface it is natural to think and we have many information inside. We need to reset sometimes. Free diving helps do that.”
“自由潜水不只是一项运动，它是让我们明白我们是谁的一种方式，”去年，莫尔查诺娃在一次采访中说，“我们潜水时如果不思考，就能理解我们和世界是一个整体。如果思考，我们就是独立的个体。在海面之上，思考是很自然的，我们内心也有很多信息。有时我们需要重置。自由潜水能帮助我们重置。”
Molchanova was on the faculty of Moscow’s Russian State University of Physical Education, Sport, Youth and Tourism. She ran its free diving program with Alexey. She wrote instructional manuals and a volume of poetry, and commuted around Moscow on a kick scooter.
莫尔查诺娃是莫斯科的俄罗斯国立体育、运动、青年和旅游大学(Russian State University of Physical Education, Sport, Youth and Tourism)的教师。她和阿列克谢一起教授自由潜水课程。她写过多本指导手册和一卷诗集，上下班是踩着滑板车在莫斯科穿行。
“She is a force, and having even gotten close to what she’s done was hugely gratifying and a source of pride, and ultimately she’s the one to learn from,” said the American diver Ashley Chapman, one of the few to break one of Molchanova’s records. She did it in the Cayman Islands in 2012 with a dive to 67 meters. Within 24 hours, Molchanova had reclaimed the record — with a dive to 68 meters, on her 50th birthday.
“她拥有强大的力量，能接近她的纪录已经令人十分满足和感到自豪了，说到底她是我的榜样，”美国潜水员阿什莉·查普曼(Ashley Chapman)说。她是少数几位曾打破莫尔查诺娃纪录的人。2012年，在开曼群岛(Cayman Islands)，她潜到了67米打破了纪录。不到24小时后，莫尔查诺娃在50岁生日那天又打破了查普曼的纪录，潜到了68米。
“I’d planned to do some studying with Natalia, directly,” Chapman said. “She was a wealth of knowledge and was willing to share it, and now she’s gone, and that’s really sad for the sport.”
“我本打算直接跟纳塔利娅学习，”查普曼说，“她知识丰富，而且愿意分享，现在她走了，对这项运动来说真是令人痛心的损失。”
If Molchanova’s body is not recovered, no one will ever know for sure what happened underwater. By Tuesday night, Alexey had accepted the likelihood that much would remain unknown.
如果找不到莫尔查诺娃的尸体，那么谁也不会确切知道水下到底发生了什么。到周二晚上，阿列克谢已经接受了很可能永远得不到答案的事实。
“It seems she’ll stay in the sea,” he said. “I think she would like that.”
“也许她将留在海里，”他说，“我想她会喜欢那样的。”