MOSCOW — TWO years ago today, three journalists and I worked nervously in a Hong Kong hotel room, waiting to see how the world would react to the revelation that the National Security Agency had been making records of nearly every phone call in the United States. In the days that followed, those journalists and others published documents revealing that democratic governments had been monitoring the private activities of ordinary citizens who had done nothing wrong.
莫斯科——两年前的今天，在香港某酒店的一个房间里，我和三名记者一边紧张地工作，一边等着看全世界将对一则新闻作何反应。那则新闻就是，美国境内几乎所有电话记录均处于国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的监控之下。随后的日子里，这三名记者以及其他人公开了大批文件，揭露了民主国家的政府一直在监控普通公民的私人活动，而他们并没有做错过任何事。
Within days, the United States government responded by bringing charges against me under World War I-era espionage laws. The journalists were advised by lawyers that they risked arrest or subpoena if they returned to the United States. Politicians raced to condemn our efforts as un-American, even treasonous.
几天之内，美国政府就用行动作出回应，根据第一次世界大战时期通过的间谍法，把我告上了法庭。律师告知前述记者，如果回到美国，他们将面临被逮捕或者被传唤的风险。政客们纷纷谴责说，作为美国人我们不该如此行事，甚至给我们扣上了叛国的帽子。
Privately, there were moments when I worried that we might have put our privileged lives at risk for nothing — that the public would react with indifference, or practiced cynicism, to the revelations.
有些时刻，我在内心深处会有一丝担忧：我们冒着失去优越生活条件的风险这样做，到头来却可能一无所获，公众可能对我们的爆料漠不关心，或者报之以冷嘲热讽。
Never have I been so grateful to have been so wrong.
我从未因为发觉自己想错了，而感到如此庆幸。
Two years on, the difference is profound. In a single month, the N.S.A.’s invasive call-tracking program was declared unlawful by the courts and disowned by Congress. After a White House-appointed oversight board investigation found that this program had not stopped a single terrorist attack, even the president who once defended its propriety and criticized its disclosure has now ordered it terminated.
两年间，事情发生了深刻的改变。一个月之内，NSA旗下这个侵犯隐私的电话监控项目先是被法庭裁定为非法，随后又遭到了国会的反对。由白宫委派的监督委员会经过调查发现，这一项目迄今未能阻止任何一起恐怖袭击，现在，就连为其正当性做过辩护、严厉批评过泄密之举的总统，也下达了终止该项目的命令。
This is the power of an informed public.
知情的公众展现了他们的力量。
Ending the mass surveillance of private phone calls under the Patriot Act is a historic victory for the rights of every citizen, but it is only the latest product of a change in global awareness. Since 2013, institutions across Europe have ruled similar laws and operations illegal and imposed new restrictions on future activities. The United Nations declared mass surveillance an unambiguous violation of human rights. In Latin America, the efforts of citizens in Brazil led to the Marco Civil, an Internet Bill of Rights. Recognizing the critical role of informed citizens in correcting the excesses of government, the Council of Europe called for new laws to protect whistle-blowers.
以《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)为依据大规模监听私人电话的做法被叫停，是公民权利的历史性胜利；但这胜利不过是全球意识发生变化的最新产物。自从2013年以来，欧洲各地的机构已将类似的法律和行动裁定为非法，并对未来的行动作出了新的限制。联合国(United Nations)指出，大规模监听项目毫无疑问地侵犯了人权。在拉丁美洲，巴西公民几经努力，促成了《互联网公民权利框架》(Marco Civil)的出台，它是互联网的《权利法案》。欧洲委员会(Council of Europe)意识到，知情的公民在纠正政府逾矩行为方面发挥着重要的作用，于是要求相关方面出台新法律，保护揭秘者。
Beyond the frontiers of law, progress has come even more quickly. Technologists have worked tirelessly to re-engineer the security of the devices that surround us, along with the language of the Internet itself. Secret flaws in critical infrastructure that had been exploited by governments to facilitate mass surveillance have been detected and corrected. Basic technical safeguards such as encryption — once considered esoteric and unnecessary — are now enabled by default in the products of pioneering companies like Apple, ensuring that even if your phone is stolen, your private life remains private. Such structural technological changes can ensure access to basic privacies beyond borders, insulating ordinary citizens from the arbitrary passage of anti-privacy laws, such as those now descending upon Russia.
法律领域之外的进展更加迅猛。技术专家们不知疲倦地改进了我们周围设备的安全性能，以及互联网本身的语言。关键基础设施中鲜为人知的漏洞，此前曾被政府用来为大规模的监控提供便利，如今已经被发现和纠正。基本的科技保护手段，比如加密——曾经被认为十分深奥而且没有必要——目前在苹果等先锋企业的产品中已经默认打开，它们确保即使你的手机被盗，个人隐私仍然不会泄露。这些彻底的技术变革可以确保人们无论在哪个国家，都能享有基本的隐私权，让普通民众不会因为草率通过的侵犯隐私的法律所影响。俄罗斯目前通过的一些法律就属于这种情况。
Though we have come a long way, the right to privacy — the foundation of the freedoms enshrined in the United States Bill of Rights — remains under threat. Some of the world’s most popular online services have been enlisted as partners in the N.S.A.’s mass surveillance programs, and technology companies are being pressured by governments around the world to work against their customers rather than for them. Billions of cellphone location records are still being intercepted without regard for the guilt or innocence of those affected. We have learned that our government intentionally weakens the fundamental security of the Internet with “back doors” that transform private lives into open books. Metadata revealing the personal associations and interests of ordinary Internet users is still being intercepted and monitored on a scale unprecedented in history: As you read this online, the United States government makes a note.
尽管我们取得了长足的进步，隐私权——美国《权利法案》(Bill of Rights)中规定的各种自由的基础——仍然面临威胁。世界上一些最受欢迎的网络服务已经成为NSA大规模监控项目的同伙，科技公司正受到世界各国政府的压力，要求它们去侵害自己的用户，而不是为他们服务。数十亿条手机定位记录仍在受到监控，无论被监控的对象是否有罪。我们已经得知，政府通过“后门”有意地弱化了互联网的基本安全，这些后门让私生活不再私密。揭示个人联络信息和普通互联网用户兴趣的元数据，仍然在以空前的规模被截获和监控：当你在网上阅读这篇文章时，美国政府会留下一条记录。
Spymasters in Australia, Canada and France have exploited recent tragedies to seek intrusive new powers despite evidence such programs would not have prevented attacks. Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain recently mused, “Do we want to allow a means of communication between people which we cannot read?” He soon found his answer, proclaiming that “for too long, we have been a passively tolerant society, saying to our citizens: As long as you obey the law, we will leave you alone.”
澳大利亚、加拿大和法国的间谍部门的负责人已经利用最近发生的悲剧寻求新的侵扰性权力，尽管有证据显示，此类项目并不会阻止袭击事件的发生。英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)不久前若有所思地说，“我们要不要允许一种我们无法破解的通讯手段的存在？”他很快找到了答案，声称“太久以来，我们都是一个被动宽容的社会，告诉我们的公民：只要你们遵守法律，我们就给你自由。”
At the turning of the millennium, few imagined that citizens of developed democracies would soon be required to defend the concept of an open society against their own leaders.
在世纪之交，几乎没人能够想象，发达民主国家的公民，很快就需要在本国领导人面前，捍卫开放社会的理念了。
Yet the balance of power is beginning to shift. We are witnessing the emergence of a post-terror generation, one that rejects a worldview defined by a singular tragedy. For the first time since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, we see the outline of a politics that turns away from reaction and fear in favor of resilience and reason. With each court victory, with every change in the law, we demonstrate facts are more convincing than fear. As a society, we rediscover that the value of a right is not in what it hides, but in what it protects.
然而力量的平衡已经开始转变。我们正在见证后恐怖世代的成长，而他们拒绝接受由孤立事件定义的世界观。9·11事件以来，我们首次看到了一种政治思路正在成型，它不盲目应对不囿于恐惧，而是青睐韧性和理性。凭借着法庭上的每一场胜利，以及法律的每一次改变，我们都已经证明，事实比恐惧更有说服力。作为一个社会，我们已经重新发现，一种权利的价值不在于它隐藏了什么，而是在于它保护了什么。