BRASÍLIA — With Brazil’s government facing widespread discontent over its preparations for the World Cup, President Dilma Rousseff hit back at critics in an interview here on Tuesday, defending loans from state banks for costly new stadiums for the tournament and insisting that Brazilians planning to shun the event were a “small minority.”
巴西利亚——人们对巴西政府的世界杯(World Cup)准备工作普遍感到不满，总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)周二在这里的一次采访中对批评者进行了反驳。对于从国家银行贷款来为比赛修建昂贵的新体育场馆的做法，罗塞夫进行了辩护，并坚称反对世界杯的巴西人只是“极少数”。
Making a rare public reference to her imprisonment decades ago, when interrogators tortured her after her capture as part of an urban guerrilla group, Ms. Rousseff said that even then, during the World Cup of 1970, she and fellow prisoners opposed to the military dictatorship avidly followed the monthlong soccer tournament from prison and supported Brazil’s national team.
罗塞夫极少见地公开提到了她数十年前坐牢的经历。当时，她作为一支城市游击队成员被捕，后来遭到审讯者折磨。罗塞夫说，即便当时，即1970年世界杯期间，她与其他反对军事独裁的狱友仍然满怀热情地在监狱里关注为期一个月的足球比赛，表达对巴西国家队的支持。
“At that time, many people opposed to the government initially questioned whether we would be strengthening the dictatorship by rooting for Brazil’s team,” said Ms. Rousseff, 66. “I had no such dilemma,” she added, saying that even within the walls of her prison in São Paulo, such resistance dissipated in the run-up to Brazil’s victory over Italy in the championship match, which took place in Mexico City.
“当时，许多政府反对者开始都质疑给巴西队加油是否会助长独裁的势力，”66岁的罗塞夫说。“我就不会这样进退两难，”她还说。即便身处位于圣保罗的监狱，当巴西即将在决赛中战胜意大利时，这种抵制也消失了。决赛在墨西哥城举行。
As the start of this year’s tournament on June 12 approaches, Ms. Rousseff is grappling with a wave of strikes, a sluggish economy and a presidential race pitting her against rivals who have climbed in public opinion polls. While she is still viewed as a favorite in the October elections, her government has come under criticism over delays in finishing World Cup projects and an array of other stalled public works projects.
今年的比赛将于6月12日开幕。随着比赛日期临近，罗塞夫也在应对一系列的示威游行、萧条的经济和总统竞选——她的竞争对手在民意测验中的支持率出现上升。虽然她仍然是10月的选举中最受欢迎的人物，但是她的政府却因为世界杯工程延期和大量公共工程项目进度缓慢而受到批评。
A survey released on Tuesday by the Pew Research Center found that 72 percent of respondents were dissatisfied with the way things were going in Brazil, up from 55 percent just weeks before huge street protests in June 2013 shook Brazilian cities.
皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)周二发布的一篇调查报告发现，72%的受访者都对巴西目前的状况感到不满，而在2013年6月震动巴西城市的大规模街头抗议发生几周前，这个比例为55%。
The survey, based on 1,003 face-to-face interviews with Brazilian adults in April, also found that two-thirds said Brazil’s economy was in bad shape, and that 61 percent thought playing host to the World Cup was a bad idea because it took resources away from public services, including health care and education.
这项调查于4月对1003名巴西成年人进行了面对面的采访。它还发现，三分之二的人都认为巴西的经济状况欠佳，而且有61%的人认为承办世界杯并不是个好主意，因为世界杯会占用医疗保健和教育等公共服务资源。
The glum mood, which follows an economic boom that culminated in 7.5 percent growth in 2010, has been compounded by scandals at Brazil’s national oil company, Petrobras, and a multiyear slowdown in economic growth. The economy grew only 0.2 percent in the first quarter of 2014, slower than the 0.4 percent expansion reported in the previous three months.
这种阴郁的情绪出现之前，巴西经济曾一度繁荣，并于2010年达到了增速7.5%的巅峰水平。然而，巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)的丑闻，以及多年来经济增长速度一直放缓的情况，使这种情绪出现恶化。2014年第一季度，巴西经济只增长了0.2%，比前三个月报告的0.4%要慢。
Still, Ms. Rousseff, a member of the leftist Workers Party that has governed Brazil since 2003, vigorously defended her economic record in an hourlong interview on Tuesday at the presidential palace in the modernist capital, Brasília.
然而，作为巴西左翼劳工党(Workers Party)成员的罗塞夫，在周二长达一小时的采访中积极地为自己的经济表现进行了辩护。此次采访在现代主义都市巴西利亚的总统府举行。劳工党自2003年来一直是巴西的执政党。
Citing antipoverty projects that have pulled millions of people into the middle class over the last decade, she said that incomes for poorer Brazilians had climbed well above the rate of inflation, making Brazil’s progress in reducing poverty comparable to Spain’s experience after the death in 1975 of the dictator Francisco Franco, which ushered in a transition to democratic government.
她说，因为过去十年里让数百万人进入了中产阶级的扶贫项目，巴西贫困人口收入的增长远高于通货膨胀率，使巴西在减少贫困方面的进展，堪比西班牙在1975年独裁者弗朗西斯科·佛朗哥(Francisco Franco)去世后的经历。西班牙的经历引领了向民主政府的转型。
Emphasizing that inequality had fallen in Brazil while growing in the United States and parts of Europe, Ms. Rousseff, an economist by training, spoke glowingly of the work of Thomas Piketty, the professor at the Paris School of Economics whose sweeping studies of inequality have gained widespread attention.
罗塞夫强调巴西的贫富差距缩小了，而美国和部分欧洲地区却在扩大。经济学家出身的她对巴黎经济学院(Paris School of Economics)教授托马·皮克提(Thomas Piketty)赞不绝口。皮克提对贫富差距的全面研究获得了广泛关注。
“I think he’s done a fantastic job,” Ms. Rousseff said of Mr. Piketty, who has stood by his conclusions about the evolution of wealth inequality after The Financial Times attacked his data.
“我觉得他做得特别出色，”罗塞夫说到皮克提时说。在《金融时报》(The Financial Times)对他使用的数据进行了攻击后，皮克提坚持自己有关财富不均的演变的结论。
Ms. Rousseff said that rising incomes in Brazil had created new challenges, such as the large demonstrations that have given way to smaller protests, often led by housing activists or radical antiestablishment groups. She said that many of the protesters’ complaints about the poor quality of services, whether from governments or private companies, were understandable.
罗塞夫称，不断增加的收入给巴西带来了新的挑战，比如大规模示威活动变成了较小规模的抗议，领导示威活动的通常是住房活动人士或激进的反权势组织。她说，抗议者有关服务质量差的许多抱怨是可以理解的，不管提供服务的是政府还是私营公司。
“Services grew less than income,” she said, noting as an example the surging access to air travel in Brazil, which has left many travelers fatigued at the mere thought of dealing with the country’s swamped airport infrastructure. Brazil’s larger middle class, she said, has “more desire, more longings, more demands.”
“服务的增长不及收入，”她说，并以巴西乘飞机出行数量大幅增加为例。飞机出行的增加，导致许多旅客仅仅是一想到要面对巴西人满为患的机场基础设施，就已经疲惫不堪。她说，巴西有了更庞大的中产阶级，有“更多欲望、更多渴望、更多要求”。
“This forms an intrinsic part of the human being in the society in which we live,” she said. “He obtains something, but he wants more, which is very good.”
“在我们所生活的社会里，这构成了人的一个固有组成部分，”她说，“他们得到了一些东西，但却想要更多，这一点非常好。”
Beyond the challenges her government faces before the World Cup, with security forces bracing for a possible return of large-scale protests against spending on the tournament, Ms. Rousseff said the event offered an opportunity to strengthen Brazil’s position on the global stage.
眼前因世界杯投资而引发的大规模抗议可能再次出现，安全部队正严阵以待，罗塞夫称，抛开世界杯前自己的政府面临的相关挑战，这项赛事为加强巴西在全球舞台上的地位提供了机会。
She also said she was prepared for a thaw in relations with the United States, after a souring last year over revelations that the National Security Agency had spied on Ms. Rousseff and her inner circle of senior aides. She noted her plans to meet with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. when he visits Brazil this month to watch the United States soccer team play against Ghana.
她还表示自己准备缓和与美国之间的关系。去年，由于美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）对罗塞夫及其高级助手组成的核心圈子进行监视一事败露，两国关系恶化。美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)本月将访问巴西，观看美国足球队对阵加纳队的比赛，罗塞夫提到自己打算与拜登会面。
“I’m certain we can pick up our relations where we left off,” Ms. Rousseff said, emphasizing the importance of trade with the United States, Brazil’s second-largest trading partner after China. She said she was prepared to consider rescheduling a state visit to Washington, which she had postponed in September in response to the N.S.A. spying revelations.
“相信我们能恢复中断的关系，”罗塞夫说。她强调了对美贸易的重要性。美国是巴西的第二大贸易伙伴，仅位于中国之后。她说她在考虑重新安排去华盛顿进行国事访问。去年9月，作为对NSA监视活动的回应，她推迟了对华盛顿的访问。