WASHINGTON — Shockingly, in the end, I didn’t miss Brody.
华盛顿——令人震惊的是，总的来说，我并不怀念布罗迪(Brody)。
I was perfectly happy with The Drone Queen, as Claire Danes’s Carrie Mathison is christened on her birthday cake in the first episode of Showtime’s “Homeland,” returning next month.
Showtime的剧集《国土安全》(Homeland)将于下个月回归，新的一集名叫“无人机女王”(The Drone Queen)，看到剧中由克莱尔·达内什(Claire Danes)饰演的凯莉·马西森(Carrie Mathison)面对写着这个名字的生日蛋糕时，我感到非常高兴。
I gingerly went to a screening in New York, assuming that, without my favorite ginger, my interest would wane. But the show, set in Kabul and Islamabad, where Carrie is now working for the C.I.A. directing “playtime,” as they call drone strikes, having dumped her ginger baby with her sister back home, crystallizes America’s Gordian knot in the Middle East. It vividly shows our fungible moral choices and the disruptive power of social media.
我有些忐忑地前往纽约的一个看片会，以为我最喜欢的红发男子没有出现，我对这部剧集的兴趣就会减弱。但这一集精辟地总结了美国在中东的难解之结，它讲述凯莉把自己的红发宝宝留在美国让妹妹照料，自己在喀布尔和伊斯兰堡为CIA主持“游戏时间”(playtime)工作，即无人机袭击。这一集生动地展现了我们可以替换的道德选择，以及社交媒体的颠覆性力量。
So many gigantic blunders have been made since 9/11, so many historical fault lines have erupted, that no matter which path the Obama administration takes, it runs into a “No Exit” sign. Any choice seems like a bad choice.
自“9·11”以来，很多重大失误木已成舟，很多历史断层线已经爆裂，无论奥巴马政府选择哪条路，都会遇上“此路不通”的标志牌。似乎没有哪个选择是对的。
Mandy Patinkin’s Saul Berenson, now working for a defense contractor in New York, warns a group of military officers that America is walking away from Afghanistan “with the job half-done.”
曼迪·帕廷金(Mandy Patinkin)饰演的索尔·贝伦森(Saul Berenson)现在在为纽约的一家国防承包商工作，他向一群军官发出警告，说美国离开阿富汗是“半途而废”。
He stands up to his boss, who is upset by his impolitic behavior, asking if “we really want to risk going back” to “girls not allowed in school, roving gangs of men with whips enforcing Sharia law, a safe haven again for Al Qaeda”?
他勇敢地面对上司，质问道：“我们真的要冒险回到学校不招女生，男子巡逻团用鞭子实施伊斯兰教法，阿富汗再次成为基地组织(Al Qaeda)安全避风港的状态吗？”而老板对他的失言很生气。
When Carrie oversees an airstrike in Pakistan to take out the No. 4 terrorist target on the kill list, the bombs incinerate innocents at a wedding. Afterward, the Air Force pilot who conducted the strike confronts Carrie in a bar and calls her a monster. When Rupert Friend’s haunted C.I.A. assassin Peter Quinn asks Carrie if she’s ever bothered by dropping fire on a hydra-headed kill list, sometimes with tragic mistakes, she rolls her eyes and replies, “It’s a job.”
凯莉负责在巴基斯坦开展了一次空袭，针对的是黑名单上第4号恐怖分子目标，但炸弹却将一场婚礼变成了炼狱。随后，开展这次袭击的空军飞行员在一间酒吧就此事质问凯莉，并且骂她是恶魔。彼得·奎恩(Peter Quinn)饰演的鲁珀特·弗兰德(Rupert Friend)是一名经受内心煎熬的CIA杀手，他问凯莉，按照没完没了的黑名单击杀目标，有时还会出现悲剧性的失误，这会否让她感到不安，凯莉不屑地回答说：“这是工作。”
Carrie at first contends that they’re “bulletproof,” that no one will find out about what she calls “collateral damage” because the strike was in a tribal region. But then a medical school student, angry that his friend’s mother and sister were killed at the wedding, posts a cellphone video of the gory scene.
凯莉起初声称，他们“非常安全”，没有人会知道她所说的“连带伤害”，因为袭击的是一个部落地区。但后来，一名医学院学生，愤怒于朋友的母亲和姐姐在那个婚礼上罹难，把拍下血腥场景的手机视频传到了网上。
The murderous melee that ensues is redolent of President Obama’s provocative remark at a Democratic Party fund-raiser in New York, talking about the alarming aggressions flaring up around the world and alluding to the sulfurous videos of the social-media savvy ISIS fiends beheading American journalists.
接下来发生了一场激烈的论战，非常像奥巴马总统在纽约的一个民主党筹款活动上发出的强硬言论，当时他谈到了令人震惊的侵略行径在世界各地爆发，也提及了精通社交媒体的ISIS发布的斩首美国记者的邪恶视频。
“If you watch the nightly news,” the president said, “it feels like the world is falling apart.”
“如果你看晚间新闻，”奥巴马说，“你会感觉好像这个世界正在分崩离析。”
Trying to reassure Americans who feel frightened and helpless, he posited that “the truth of the matter is that the world has always been messy. In part, we’re just noticing now because of social media and our capacity to see in intimate detail the hardships that people are going through.”
他试图安抚那些感到害怕和无助美国人，声称“事情的真相是，世界本来就是一团糟。从某种程度上说，现在有了社交媒体，大家可以近距离看到人们正在经历艰辛的细节后，我们才注意到了这一点”。
“I think he’s trying to blame the messenger,” said Terry McCarthy, the president of the Los Angeles World Affairs Council. “Whether or not James Foley’s brutal beheading was shown on YouTube or disseminated on Twitter doesn’t affect the horror of what was done, and in another era, it would have been just as shocking, even if reported only on network TV or radio or in a newspaper.
“我认为他正在试图责怪信使，”洛杉矶世界事务理事会(Los Angeles World Affairs Council)主席特里·麦卡锡(Terry McCarthy)说。“詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)被残酷斩首的视频不管有没有在YouTube上播放、在Twitter上传播，都不会对这件事的恐怖程度产生任何影响，就算是在另一个时代，人们只通过电视台、收音机或从报纸了解这件事，它也同样令人震惊。”
“I think it is also condescending to say we are just noticing now because of social media. How about the recoil at the news of the My Lai massacre, broken by Sy Hersh on a newswire? Or the Abu Ghraib pictures run on ‘60 Minutes II’ and in The New Yorker?
“我认为，奥巴马说我们是因为社交媒体才注意到了某些状况，这有点瞧不起人。还记得西莫·赫许(Sy Hersh)揭发美莱村屠杀的报道，以及《60分II》(60 Minutes II)和《纽约客》(The New Yorker)曝光的阿布格莱布监狱照片所引起的反应吗？”
“ISIS beheading American journalists, crucifying people, stoning a man to death in Mosul, targeting minorities for genocide, is not simply ‘messy as always’ — are you kidding me? It is an outright abomination in the face of humanity, however and through whatever media it is reported and it needs our, and our allies’, most urgent attention.”
“ISIS斩首美国记者，把人钉在十字架上处死，在摩苏尔用石头砸死一名男子，对少数派进行种族屠杀，这些已经不能简单地说成是“以往的那种一团糟”了——开什么玩笑？这完全是对人类犯下的无耻罪行，无论是通过何种媒体被报道或如何被报道的，都需要我们以及我们的盟友迅速予以关注。”
Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, noted that the impact of social media was exaggerated during the Arab Spring, leading to the mistaken belief that liberal secularists in Tahrir Square and other places posed a serious alternative to authoritarian regimes or radical Islamists.
美国外交关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)主席理查德·哈斯(Richard Haass)指出，社交媒体的影响力在阿拉伯之春的过程中被夸大，导致了这种错误观念：即解放广场等地的世俗的自由派真的提供了一种可以取代威权体制和极端伊斯兰主义者的选择。
The world is more disorderly for all kinds of reasons, he said, including the loss of confidence in American reliability and the American model, and reactions to things the United States has done, like the Iraq war, or not done, like acting on chemical weapons use in Syria.
他说，这个世界比以往更加无序了，原因多种多样，比如人们对美国的可靠度和美国模式丧失了信心，以及美国的所作所为——比如伊拉克战争，以及美国的不作为——比如面对叙利亚使用化学武器时，所引发的反应。
“But to blame it on social media,” Haass said, “is something of a cop-out.”
“但如果把这归咎于社交媒体，”哈斯说，“那就算是一种逃避。”
He contended that while the sky may not be falling, “it certainly is lower,” and to deny that “is to engage in denial. We need to be very careful lest people begin to conclude that Americans are disinterested in the world. We don’t want that narrative to take hold.”
他认为，尽管或许天还没有塌下来，“但它显然在坠落”，如果否认这一点，就等于“否认了一切”。我们需要非常小心地防止人们得出这样的结论：美国对世界失去了兴趣。我们不想让这种说法站住脚。”
Margaret MacMillan, an Oxford historian who wrote “Paris 1919” and “The War That Ended Peace: The Road to 1914,” says the president is right that we probably are more aware of what’s going on around the world, even with all the “rubbish” on the web, but she also believes that, from voracious Putin to vicious jihadists, “sometimes we’re right to be scared.”
牛津大学(Oxford)的历史学者玛格丽特·麦克米伦(Margaret MacMillan)是《巴黎1919》(Paris 1919)和《结束和平的战争：通向1914的路》(The War That Ended Peace: The Road to 1914)的作者。她说，奥巴马有一句话说对了，那就是虽然网上到处是垃圾，但我们对世界上的事确实有了更多了解，但她也相信，从贪婪的普京到邪恶的圣战者，“有时我们有理由感到害怕”。
She predicted that instead of World War III, “The 21st century will be a series of low grade, very nasty wars that will go on and on without clear outcomes, doing dreadful things to any civilians in their paths.”
她预计，第三次世界大战不会发生，但“21世纪将出现一系列级别较低的、非常棘手的战争，这些战争无止无休，没有清晰的结果，并且会让任何碍事的平民承受苦难。”
Certainly, Obama never complained about a frenzied social media when it served his political purposes.
当然了，在社交媒体帮奥巴马达到政治目的时候，他可从来没抱怨过社交媒体的疯狂。
The president’s observation unfortunately underscored his role as Barack Seneca Obama, his air of disconnection, his “we don’t have a strategy” vagueness on engagement, his belief that extreme excitement, outrage and sentimentality are suspect.
奥巴马的表态不幸地突显了他塞内加式的特质，他那置身事外的态度，他对战争的那种“我们没有策略”式的模棱两可，以及他的信念：极度的兴奋、愤怒和敏感都不可靠。
His “bucket list” visit Friday to the alien-looking Stonehenge was the perfect backdrop for his strange pattern of detachment, and his adamantine belief that his Solomonic wisdom and Spocky calm help him resist the siren songs to disaster.
奥巴马周五完成了他“最后的心愿”之一，参观了如同外星人杰作的巨石阵。这次访问恰好映衬出他那令人无法理解的疏离感，以及他坚如磐石的观点：自己具有所罗门王式的智慧和史波克式的冷静，可以抵御任何通往灾难的诱惑。
Joe Biden was the one connecting with Americans, promising to chase the ISIS savages “to the gates of hell,” while Obama’s subliminal, or not so subliminal, message was that before certain atrocities, the heart must muzzle itself, rejecting flights of anxiety, worry and horror as enemies of lucid analysis.
乔·拜登(Joe Biden)则与美国人心心相印，他承诺要把ISIS的暴徒“赶进地狱之门”，与此同时，奥巴马通过潜意识或非潜意识传递的讯息是，面对一些暴行，我们的内心必须自我克制，遏制焦虑、担忧和恐慌的爆发，因为这些都是理性分析的敌人。