Despite not having a home team to cheer on, record numbers of Chinese soccer fans are expected to tune in to the 2014 FIFA World Cup early Friday local time — with some finding rather creative ways to get their football fix.
虽然无法为本国球队加油助威，预计在当地时间周五清晨，收看2014国际足联(FIFA)世界杯的中国观众人数仍将创下新高。此外，为了过球瘾，有些人还会使用一些别出心裁的招数。
Because of the time difference with Brazil, the host country, most of the live matches will be aired in the early morning hours in China. But if history is anything to go by, this will not slow fans down. The 2006 and 2010 World Cups drew millions of viewers in China, even though the Chinese team qualified for neither.
由于与主办国巴西存在时差，多数比赛的现场直播都是在中国的凌晨。但从往年经验来看，这不会影响中国球迷。2006年和2010年的世界杯在中国都吸引了大量观众，虽然中国未能晋级参加这两届世界杯。
According to FIFA, soccer’s governing body, in 2006 China accounted for the largest single-country audience, with 3.98 billion viewers throughout the games, or 15 percent of the total cumulative television audience. Even more viewers watched the 2010 World Cup, with an average of 17.5 million Chinese watching each live match — even in the middle of the night. This was far ahead of the 4.1 million viewers from the host country, South Africa, the 16.1 million from Brazil and the 8.8 million from Germany.
根据足球管理机构国际足联提供的信息，中国是2006年世界杯电视观众人数最多的国家，总计39.8亿人次，是全球总数的15%。2010年的人数更多，平均每场直播有1750万中国人观看——即使是深更半夜播出的比赛。相比之下，主办国南非平均每场比赛的观众人数为410万，巴西为1610万，德国为880万，都远不及中国。
But late nights mean groggy mornings at the office, and some companies in China have decided to make special allowances.
但熬夜就意味着第二天上班时会犯困，一些中国公司已经决定为此做出特殊安排。
The Guangzhou-based IT company UCWeb is offering its employees up to three vacation days during the World Cup period, according to the Chongqing Business News. The company will also offer live wide-screen broadcasts of matches on Fridays with free beer, drinks and snacks.
据《重庆商报》报道，广州的软件公司UC优视决定在世界杯期间给员工最多三天的假期。公司还在周五晚上提供宽屏赛事直播，以及免费的啤酒、饮料和零食。
The majority of employees are programmers, and soccer is an important recreational outlet for them, an employee named Guo Ning told the newspaper. This is the first time the company has offered such benefits, he said.
UC优视员工国宁告诉该报记者，公司员工主要是程序员，消遣娱乐就那么几种，足球是其中非常重要一种。他说，这是公司第一次提供“世界杯福利”。
The news was met with much envy, and some skepticism, online.
这个消息在网上引来了许多艳羡之声，也招致了一些人的质疑。
An Internet company in Chongqing is giving out free face masks to help employees look, if not feel, more awake the next day. Another company is offering later starts to the workday, the paper reported.
重庆的一家互联网公司正在为员工免费发放面膜，虽然不能消除员工的疲倦，但可以帮助掩盖倦容。《重庆商报》报道，还有一家公司同意为世界杯延后上班时间。
But those are the outliers. The majority of fans don’t have the luxury of company holidays. Employees at larger Internet companies such as Tencent and Sina said they were not aware of special accommodations for the World Cup.
但这只是少数公司。大部分球迷没有放假这种奢侈的待遇。腾讯和新浪等大型互联网公司的员工说，他们没听说因为世界杯有什么特殊待遇。
For those with less time off, it is more about picking and choosing.
对于没那么多假期的人，就只能有选择地看比赛了。
“I usually just watch certain games,” said Li Zheng, who works at Tencent. “If the time is convenient I’ll watch it, but if it’s too late — like 3 or 4 a.m. — I’ll think about my next day work schedule and consider whether I want to stay up all night.”
“我一般只看某些场比赛，”腾讯公司的李征（音译）说，“如果时间方便我会看世界杯，但如果时间太晚——比如凌晨三四点——我会想一下第二天的工作安排，然后再决定是否通宵。”
But for fans who want to catch their favorite games as well as some sleep, one option could be doctor’s notes claiming illness, real or not. Though fake medical leave notes are illegal and direct searches for them are blocked on Taobao, the online shopping website, with a little ingenuity in wording fans can easily find medical slips for sale on the site and elsewhere. Prices range from around 10 renminbi, about $1.60, for a blank form ready to be filled out with the ailment of your choice to around 300 renminbi, about $48, for more official-looking documents complete with red stamps, ostensibly from major hospitals.
但对于想要观看心仪的比赛同时拥有睡眠的球迷，医生的病假条可能是一个选择，无论病假条是真是假。尽管开假病假条是违法的，在购物网站淘宝上也无法搜索，但在措辞上动动脑筋，就可以轻松地在淘宝和其他网站上找到待售的病假条。这些病假条的价格从大约10元到300元左右不等。10元的是一张空白表格，你可以选择一种疾病填在上面。300元左右的看上去更加正式，还有红色的印章，就像是某家大医院开的一样。
But Mr. Li said he wouldn’t be buying one no matter how tired he felt. “I feel like that’s a bit excessive,” he said.
但李征说，无论多累他都不会去买病假条。“我觉得那有点过了，”他说。
China is making its mark on the 2014 World Cup in other ways. The tournament’s armadillo mascot and all mascot-related merchandise are manufactured by the Chinese company Kayford Holdings. And Yingli Green Energy, the sole Chinese corporate sponsor of the games, has provided solar paneling for the lighting masts of all the Cup stadiums.
中国正以其他方式在世界杯留下足迹。本届世界杯的犰狳吉祥物和所有吉祥物相关授权商品都由中国的杭州孚德品牌管理有限公司生产。而世界杯唯一的中国赞助商英利绿色能源控股有限公司，已经提供了所有比赛场馆照明塔所需的太阳能板。