Since the World Cup kicked off in Brazil two weeks ago, soccer fever has gripped New Yorkers to a surprising degree. In honor of today’s U.S.-Belgium match, a do-or-die affair for the American squad, we take a look at three beautiful N.Y.C.-based sports journals.
自世界杯两周前在巴西开赛以来，纽约的足球热到达了一个惊人的程度。这里我们特介绍三本漂亮的纽约体育杂志。
Howler
《咆哮》(Howler)
Founded in 2012 by former Condé Nast editors and Kickstarted by almost 1,500 supporters, Howler is a magazine for the discerning North American soccer fan. The magazine’s long-form reporting, from veteran writers like George Vecsey of The New York Times, Franklin Foer of The New Republic, David Hirshey and Jonathan Wilson, offers a comprehensive cultural perspective on the game that is complemented with vibrant illustration and playful design. The piñata on the cover of the current 2014 Brazil World Cup issue promises an issue-length party of World Cup factoids, first-person accounts and a dedicated U.S. national team section, not to mention a 36-page account of the history of the World Cup. If it “doesn’t get you fired up for the tournament,” the editors promise, “you must be a baseball fan.” Follow Howler’s blog and podcast for daily insights and previews on World Cup topics of the day.
该杂志于2012年由前康泰纳仕的编辑们创建，在Kickstarter众筹网站上赢得了约1500名拥趸，《咆哮》是办给懂行的北美足球球迷的。它的长篇报道由《纽约时报》的乔治·韦切伊(George Vecsey)、《新共和》(New Republic)的富兰克林·弗尔(Franklin Foer)以及大卫·赫尔希(David Hirshey)和乔拿森·威尔逊(Jonathan Wilson)等资深记者撰稿，以综合文化视角审视该项运动，辅以生动的插画和有趣的设计。在本期2014巴西世界杯的特刊封面上画着皮纳塔(piñata)图案，表明整期都是关于世界杯的趣闻、第一人称报道，美国国家队的专门版块，更别提36页的世界杯历史追溯。如果它“不能让你为这项赛事而兴奋，”编辑们写道，“那你一定是个棒球迷。”《咆哮》的博客和播客上有关于世界杯的每日观点和当日热点的预告。
8×8
《8x8》
Launched last fall, 8×8 is a football publication for art directors. It’s the work of Priest + Grace, the same veteran design company that launched Howler. Bold illustration and dynamic type and design treatments capture soccer’s explosive energy, while an international stable of reporters explore the nuances of the sport. A portrait of Argentina’s Sergio Aguero by the illustrator Nigel Buchanan graces the cover of the World Cup 2014 issue, teasing a two-part story by Jonathan Wilson about Argentina’s best players. There’s an illustrated look at World Cup legends through the years and a deep dive into the recent history of A.C. Milan and the players who were, as the magazine puts it, “the heroes and villains of the Berlusconi era.” The publication may be named for the American measurement of the goal (8 feet by 8 yards), but the editors take the global approach to their subject promised by their tagline: “the magazine the beautiful game deserves.”
《8x8》于去年秋天创刊，是给美术总监们看的足球出版物。它由Priest + Grace出品，推出《咆哮》的也是这家经验丰富的设计公司。大胆的插画和充满活力的字体，以及版面设计捕捉住了足球运动员爆发的能量，该杂志还有一众外国记者来帮衬，发掘这一运动的种种细微之处。2014世界杯特刊的封面是插画师尼格尔·巴卡南(Nigel Buchanan)所绘的阿根廷球星塞尔吉奥·阿圭罗(Sergio Aguero)，内有乔拿森·威尔逊关于阿根廷众球星们的报道，分为上下两部分。有一幅插画，绘制的是世界杯的历年传奇，还有一篇关于AC米兰队近期历史和球员的深度报道，杂志说他们是“贝卢斯科尼(Berlusconi)时代的英雄与恶棍”。杂志的名字或许是来自美国关于球门尺寸的规定（8英尺x8码），但编辑们为杂志撰写的宣传词体现了国际风范：“这项美丽的运动值得拥有这样一本杂志。”