LOS ANGELES — Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong, the new vice chairman andsecond-largest investor in Tribune Publishing, is believed to be the wealthiest physician in the world and the richest person in this city, surpassing all the Hollywood moguls.
洛杉矶——黄馨祥博士(Patrick Soon-Shiong)成为论坛出版公司(Tribune Publishing)的新副主席和第二大投资者。他被认为是世界上最富有的医生和洛杉矶首富，超过所有的好莱坞巨头。
Much of that fortune, valued at $11.9 billion by Forbes, came from selling generic drugs and from developing one new type of drug to treat cancer.
据《福布斯》(Forbes)估算，他的资产总额为119亿美元。大部分来自销售非专利药以及一种新型抗癌药的研发。
But his meteoric rise has not been without controversy, either, as he has developed a reputation for exaggerating his prospects and accomplishments.
不过，他的迅速崛起并非没有引起争议，因为他以夸大自己的前景和成就闻名。
“He thinks big and sometimes his statements come off hyperbolic,” said Dr. Eric Topol, professor of genomics at the Scripps Research Institute. “Only time will tell” how much he really accomplishes, Dr. Topol said.
“他总想干一番大事，有时他的叙述显得很夸张，”斯克里普斯研究所(Scripps Research Institute)的基因组学教授埃里克·托波尔博士(Eric Topol)说。托波尔说，“时间会证明”他到底做出了多少成就。
In a brief interview Monday, Dr. Soon-Shiong said he did not see his $70.5 million investment in Tribune Publishing, which owns The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune, as a philanthropic exercise. But he said he did consider newspapers a “public trust” and wanted to preserve them.
周一，黄馨祥在接受简短采访时说，他不认为自己向论坛出版公司注资7050万美元是做慈善。论坛出版公司拥有《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)和《芝加哥论坛报》(The Chicago Tribune)。不过，他说，他的确认为报纸是“公益信托”，他想要保护报纸。
Dr. Soon-Shiong (pronounced Soon Shung) said he appreciated the value of a free press after having grown up in apartheid-era South Africa, the son of immigrants from China.
馨祥博士说，作为中国移民后代，他在种族隔离时代的南非长大，深知新闻自由的价值。
“I recognize the press is a very valuable tool for the community, where it really adds to democracy,” he said. He also said the investment could make money if Tribune could be transformed from a “legacy newspaper company” into a technology and content company.
“我认识到，报界对社会来说是很有价值的工具，它真的能促进民主，”他说。他还说，如果论坛出版公司能从“传统报业公司”转变为技术和内容公司，他的投资可能会获得回报。
On politics, Dr. Soon-Shiong, 63, called himself the “quintessential independent.” He has donated $82,400 to campaigns, according to the Federal Election Commission, including $60,000 to the Democratic National Committee. But he has also donated to Rudolph Giuliani and Rick Perry, both Republicans.
在政治方面，63岁的馨祥博士称自己是“典型的独立派”。据联邦选举委员会(Federal Election Commission)称，他总共为竞选捐款8.24万美元，其中6万捐给了民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)。不过，他也捐款给鲁道夫·朱利亚尼(Rudolph Giuliani)和里克·佩里(Rick Perry)两位共和党人。
Dr. Soon-Shiong said it was his medical projects that got him involved with Tribune. His companies were developing artificial intelligence and machine vision — for such tasks as having a computer analyze pathology slides or helping the vision-impaired to navigate.
馨祥博士说，他是因为自己的医疗项目而介入论坛出版公司的。当时他的公司在开发人工智能和机器视觉，比如电脑分析病理切片，或者给视觉障碍者指路。
Michael W. Ferro Jr., who is now the biggest shareholder in Tribune, had been an investor in a medical imaging company, Merge Healthcare, and came to see what Dr. Soon-Shiong had developed. Under a deal also announced Monday, Tribune will have access to that technology for use in the newspaper business, eventually paying royalties to one of Dr. Soon-Shiong’s companies.
小迈克尔·W·费罗(Michael W. Ferro Jr.)目前是论坛出版公司最大的股东，也是做医学成像的融合医疗公司(Merge Healthcare)的一位投资人，他对馨祥博士所研发的技术进行了了解。依照周一公布的另一项协议，论坛出版公司可以将这项技术用于报纸业务，最后向馨祥博士拥有的一家公司支付使用费。
One use, Dr. Soon-Shiong said, could be to point a phone camera at an article in the printed newspaper and have related video content pop up.
馨祥博士说，其中一项用途是把手机摄像头对准纸质报纸上的一篇文章，相关的视频就会弹出。
Taking a stake in the owner of The Los Angeles Times would not be out of character for Dr. Soon-Shiong. While not well known outside Los Angeles, he has taken an active role in institutions here.
馨祥博士成为《洛杉矶时报》的股东并不出人意料。出了洛杉矶他不是很出名，但在当地的很多机构中都有他活跃的身影。
He is a part owner of the Los Angeles Lakers, buying Magic Johnson’s 4.5 percent stake. He made an unsuccessful bid to buy the Dodgers, losing out to a group that included Magic Johnson.
他从魔术师约翰逊(Magic Johnson)手中买下4.5%的股权，成为洛杉矶湖人队(Los Angeles Lakers)的所有者之一。他曾出价购买道奇队(Dodgers)，但输给了包括魔术师约翰逊在内的一个团体。
He and his wife, Michele Chan, an actress, have given at least $135 million to Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, and he has helped reopen Martin Luther King Jr. Community Hospital, which serves impoverished South Los Angeles.
他和演员妻子米歇尔·陈(Michele Chan)至少向圣莫尼卡的圣约翰医疗中心(Saint John’s Health Center)捐款1.35亿美元。他还帮助重新开放小马丁·路德·金社区医院(Martin Luther King Jr. Community Hospital)，为洛杉矶南部的穷人服务。
After getting his medical degree in South Africa, Dr. Soon-Shiong became a doctor at the University of California, Los Angeles.
馨祥在南非获得医学学位后，在加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)获得博士学位。
In 1993, he made headlines for doing the first transplant of insulin-producing pancreatic cells into a patient with Type 1 diabetes. While he proclaimed that the procedure had succeeded, other experts questioned that claim.
1993年，他首次向I型糖尿病患者移植能产生胰岛素的胰腺细胞，因此登上报纸头条。虽然他宣告移植成功，但其他专家表示质疑。
He started a company selling generic drugs, taking advantage of a financial relationship with Premier, a group that buys drugs for hospitals. The company, APP Pharmaceuticals, was sold to the German company Fresenius for an initial payment $3.7 billion in 2008.
他开设了一家公司，名叫APP Pharmaceuticals，利用与Premier的金融关系，销售非专利药。Premier是一家为医院采购药品的机构。2008年，德国公司弗雷泽纽斯(Fresenius)以37亿美元的首付款买下APP Pharmaceuticals。
His biggest accomplishment was the development of the cancer drug Abraxane. It consists of the widely used drug paclitaxel (also known by the brand name Taxol) linked to particles of albumin, a protein in blood. That helps the drug get to the tumors better and makes the treatment more tolerable.
他最大的成就是开发出抗癌药Abraxane。它包含被广泛使用的药物paclitaxel（品牌名为紫杉酚[Taxol]）。Abraxane能把紫杉酚与血液中的蛋白质白蛋白分子连接起来，从而帮助这种药物更好地到达肿瘤，让治疗过程更易忍受。
Doctors debate whether any advantages of Abraxane merit the extra cost compared with generic paclitaxel. But Celgene, the large biotechnology company, saw enough in Abraxane to acquire the company that controlled it for an initial payment of $2.9 billion in 2010.
医生们质疑，与非专利药紫杉酚相比，Abraxane的优势是否值得为之付出额外的成本。但是大型生物技术公司新基公司(Celgene)看重Abraxane，2010年以29亿美元的首付款买下持有这种药物的公司。
Dr. Soon-Shiong’s new project is NantWorks, an “ecosystem” of different companies aimed at medicine. “We like to think NantWorks is combing the inventive spirit of Thomas Edison or Leonardo da Vinci,” its website says. “All at the scale of Bell Labs.”
馨祥博士的新项目是NantWorks，它是一个由多家医药公司组成的“生态系统”。“我们认为，NantWorks在搜寻托马斯·爱迪生(Thomas Edison)或莱昂纳多·达芬奇(Leonardo da Vinci)的发明精神，”NantWorks的网站说，“规模相当于贝尔实验室(Bell Labs)。”
One company in the network, NantKwest, is developing cancer treatments that harness the body’s immune system. It went public last summer with an initial market value of $2.6 billion, a record for a biotechnology company. The stock has lost three-quarters of its value since then.
该系统中的一家公司NantKwest正在研发调节人体免疫系统的癌症治疗法。去年夏天，这家公司上市，最初的市值为26亿美元，创下生物技术类公司的最高记录。截至目前，它的市值已缩水四分之三。
Another company, privately held NantHealth, is trying to use DNA sequencing and high-powered computing to quickly analyze a patient’s genes and other medical information and suggest the best treatment. It has raised more than $600 million, including from the government of Kuwait.
还有一家私营公司NantHealth正尝试利用DNA排序和高性能计算机快速分析病人的基因等医疗信息，提出最佳治疗方案。它已筹资6亿多美元，包括来自科威特政府的资金。
Two former executives filed a wrongful termination lawsuit accusing NantHealth of making fraudulent claims about the reliability of its technology. The company says the suit is without merit.
该公司的两位前高管提出了一项不当解雇诉讼，指控NantHealth对自己技术的可靠性做出了欺骗性的陈述。公司方面则称该指控毫无根据。
In January, Dr. Soon-Shiong announced a Cancer Moonshot 2020 program, in which companies like Celgene and Amgen would cooperate on certain clinical trials. He has also been an adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., though Mr. Biden’s cancer moonshot program is distinct from Dr. Soon-Shiong’s.
今年1月，馨祥博士宣布启动癌症登月计划2020(Cancer Moonshot 2020)，新基(Celgene)和安进(Amgen)等公司将参与某些临床试验。他也是副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)的顾问，虽然拜登的癌症登月计划与馨祥的截然不同。