BRASÍLIA, Brasil — This has been a history-making World Cup for Africa, and not just for the number of contentious meetings, suspensions and threatened player boycotts. For the first time, two teams from the soccer-adoring continent advanced to the knockout stage of the tournament.
巴西巴西利亚——对于非洲来说，这是一届创造历史的世界杯，不仅仅是因为大量争执不休的会议、停赛决定，以及球员的拒赛威胁。这是第一次有两支来自热爱足球的非洲大陆的球队闯入了世界杯的淘汰赛。
But that sense of accomplishment succumbed to reality in a matter of hours Monday as both teams battled hard but lost to favored opponents, leaving behind more lasting images of training ground strikes, cash-laden airplanes and an assortment of missed opportunities.
但周一，这种成就感在几个小时内就被现实击垮，两支球队坚苦奋战，但最终都输给了备受看好的对手，也留下了一些更令人难忘的印象——训练基地的罢训，运载现金的飞机，以及各种错失的机会。
Algeria lost to Germany, 2-1, in overtime and Nigeria lost to France, 2-0, leaving Africa without a team in the quarterfinals for the first time since 2006. No African team, despite a history of dazzling players, has ever reached the semifinals.
阿尔及利亚在加时赛中1比2输给德国，尼日利亚0比2不敌法国，这是自2006年以来，非洲球队首次没有进入四分之一决赛。尽管非洲在历史上涌现了诸多耀眼的球员，但却没有一支球队走到半决赛。
“Why do we go home early?” Nigeria’s coach, Stephen Keshi, said after Nigeria’s elimination on Monday. “If I were on the field playing I don’t think I would want to go home. Maybe there are some players without too much focus on the game, and there’s probably a lot of things that are going on.”
“我们为什么会提早回家？”尼日利亚队教练史蒂芬·凯希(Stephen Keshi)在球队周一被淘汰后问道。“如果我在场上踢球，我觉得我不会想回家。或许有些球员的注意力不在比赛上，他们可能在想着很多其他事情。”
Five African teams qualified for the World Cup, and three of them, including Nigeria, engaged in some player protest or impromptu negotiations with their soccer federations over money they were concerned they would never see.
共有五支非洲球队闯入这届世界杯，包括尼日利亚在内的三支球队中的一些球员曾进行抗议，或临时就奖金问题与足协进行谈判。这些球员担心他们永远都拿不到奖金。
Cameroon took the initiative even before the team boarded its plane for Brazil, with the players demanding their appearance fee for the World Cup up front, in cash. Or else, they said, they would not go. Last week the players from Ghana refused to practice and threatened a player strike in their game against Portugal unless they quickly received more than $3 million, cash in hand.
喀麦隆队甚至在登机飞往巴西之前，就采取主动。球员们要求预先获得世界杯出场费，而且是现金。他们表示，否则他们不会参加比赛。上周，加纳球员拒绝训练，威胁要在与葡萄牙的比赛中罢赛，除非他们很快拿到300多万美元（约合2000万元人民币）的现金。
One day later, the players from Nigeria also refused to practice and made the same demand of their soccer federation: Pay us now, in cash, or we go home.
一天之后，尼日利亚球员也拒绝训练，向该国足协提出了同样的要求：现在就给我们钱，否则我们就回家。
Ultimately, the presidents of Ghana and Nigeria intervened to settle the turmoil, but not before more rancor bubbled up. Two of Ghana’s best players — Kevin-Prince Boateng and Ali Sulley Muntari — were suspended before the final game when the disputes grew more personal.
最终，加纳总统和尼日利亚总统出手干预，处理混乱局面，但此时积怨已经爆发。加纳的两名顶级球员——凯文·普林斯·博阿滕(Kevin-Prince Boateng)和阿里·苏利·蒙塔里(Ali Sulley Muntari)在最后一场比赛前被禁赛，争端变得愈发个人化。
The World Cup is the grandest sporting event on the planet, a chance for every nation to show off to the world, through its soccer teams. But unattractive issues sometimes emerge, too.
世界杯是全球最盛大的体育赛事，每个国家都可以借此机会通过自己的球队向世界展示风采。但有时候也会出现一些令人不快的问题。
“I think every national soccer team reflects its country’s characteristics,” said Steve Bloomfield, the author of “Africa United: How Football Explains Africa.” “In Africa, these problems sometimes crop up. But it is not only Africa. Four years ago, France fell apart, and it wouldn’t be a World Cup without seeing the Netherlands implode.”
“我觉得，每一支国家队都反映了这个国家的特点，”《非洲团结一致：透过足球看非洲》(Africa United: How Football Explains Africa)的作者史蒂夫·布卢姆菲尔德(Steve Bloomfield)说。“在非洲，有时会出现这些问题。但有问题的不仅是非洲。四年前，法国队内部出现问题。每届世界杯中，荷兰队都会出现内讧。”
Ghana’s one-day training strike last week before the arrival of its cash came two days before it played a pivotal game against Portugal. It was no way to prepare for a critical contest, and Ghana lost, 2-1.
加纳队上周在现金到达之前，进行了为期一天的罢训。当时距离他们与葡萄牙的生死战只有两天时间。这可不是为关键比赛做准备的好做法，加纳队最终以1比2输掉了比赛。
On Thursday, before their game against France, the Nigerian players followed the Ghanaians’ lead, refusing to practice and threatening to strike unless they were paid. Eventually, President Goodluck Jonathan intervened and assured the players that after the World Cup they would get their money.
周四，在对阵法国之前，尼日利亚队员效仿加纳队员的做法，拒绝训练，并威胁如果拿不到报酬就罢赛。最终总统古德勒克·乔纳森(Goodluck Jonathan)出面干预，向球员保证世界杯后能拿到钱。
Keshi denied that there was ever a threat of a Nigerian strike and said a visit to the team from government officials Sunday included a bonus payment. The rest of the money is expected to arrive later.
凯希否认尼日利亚曾有罢赛之虞，并称周日政府官员前往球队探视时携带了一笔奖金。剩下的钱有望在不久之后支付。
“Whatever money that we got was just a bonus to encourage every individual to come out and do his best today,” he said.
“不管我们拿到什么钱，都无非是一笔额外奖励，它激励今天出场的每一个人去竭尽自己所能，”他说。
The success of numerous African players in the richest leagues in Europe and elsewhere is a factor in the recurring disputes. Upon experiencing the first-class travel and guaranteed money of those leagues, those players are less tolerant of anything less than that from their national soccer associations.
许多非洲球员在欧洲等地财力最雄厚的联赛中获得成功，他们的成功是这种反复出现的纠纷的因素之一。他们在那些联赛中体验了头等舱的旅行和有保障的酬劳，因此当本国的足协给出的待遇低于这些时，他们就没那么能容忍了。
Bloomfield, who is a former correspondent for The Independent newspaper in Kenya, said African players are often distrustful of their soccer associations and said he did not blame them for feeling that way.
曾任《独立报》(The Independent)驻肯尼亚记者的布卢姆菲尔德说，非洲球员往往对本国足协缺乏信任，他觉得有这种想法是情有可原的。
Most soccer associations pay their players after the World Cup, once FIFA, world soccer’s governing body, has made its disbursements.
多数足协是在世界杯结束后向球员支付酬劳的，即在世界足球管理机构国际足联(FIFA)将款项下发后。
But some players in Africa have concluded that their only leverage comes before a World Cup game, even it if appears they are holding their nation for ransom. Bloomfield reckons that star players like Boateng and Didier Drogba of the Ivory Coast now actually have more influence than their own soccer associations, which enables them to push the payment issue on behalf of their teammates, any number of whom do not play in Europe and do not earn nearly as much money.
但是非洲的一些球员已经认定，他们只有在世界杯比赛前才有谈判的资本，尽管这样做看上去像是在绑架国家。布卢姆菲尔德估计，如今像博阿滕和科特迪瓦的迪迪埃·德罗巴(Didier Drogba)这样的球星的影响力已经盖过他们各自国家的足协，可以代表队友去解决酬劳支付问题。这些队友不在欧洲踢球，收入远不及他们。
The Ivory Coast did not have any public disputes in this World Cup, but with one of the most talented teams in the tournament, they were disappointed not to fare better. Drogba, however, said the reason Africans teams haven’t advanced as far as the World Cup semifinals has more to do with probability than financial disputes.
科特迪瓦在本届世界杯上没有发生任何纠纷，但是，作为本次赛事中最具才华的球队之一，他们很失望自己没能走得更远。然而德罗巴说，非洲球队之所以无法打到世界杯四分之一决赛，更多地是一个概率问题，而非财务纠纷所致。
“We only have five teams in the World Cup out of 32,” he said.
“世界杯32支球队，我们只有5支，”他说。
FIFA has been watching all the turmoil and has been involved in the recent pay negotiations. In the future, it wants to eliminate the problem.
国际足联一直在留意这些纷争，并参与了近来的酬劳谈判。它希望将来能彻底解决这个问题。