Russian and Western perspectives on the crisis in Ukraine are bound to diverge, but the tragedy of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 should bring us together. This is not only because we can appreciate and feel saddened by the scale of the human loss, but also because the incident is a harbinger of the wider danger we are in. Of profound concern is the possibility of an unintended escalation of the conflict in eastern Ukraine to a direct NATO-Russia military confrontation. To avoid such a development, policy makers need to relearn some important crisis management lessons from history.
在乌克兰危机上，俄罗斯和西方的观点必然会出现分歧，但马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)MH17航班的悲剧应该让我们走到一起。这不仅是因为我们明白损失这么多生命的严重性，并且为之感到难过，而且也是因为这起事件预示着我们处在更大的危险之中。乌克兰东部局势可能出现意外的升级，演变为北约和俄罗斯之间的直接军事对抗；这种可能性令人深为担忧。为了避免事态向这样的方向发展，决策者们需要从历史上一些重要的危机管理案例中汲取经验教训。
Just consider that even before the Flight 17 disaster, we had seen a huge deterioration in mutual trust between Russia and the West. Russian and NATO military forces are being deployed ever closer to each other. A number of frozen conflicts, like Transnistria (a breakaway province of Moldova, on Ukraine’s western border), already haunt Europe; these have the potential to widen the theater of possible confrontation between Russia and the West beyond Ukraine. In addition, there is very little contact or exchange of information on what our respective militaries are doing, and the existing crisis management arrangements — both between NATO and Russia and the European Union and Russia — are inadequate. And, always in the background, there are large numbers of nuclear weapons on both sides on high states of alert.
试想一下，在马航MH17航班的灾难之前，俄罗斯与西方之间的相互信任就已经大幅恶化。目前，俄罗斯和北约正在把军队部署到越来越逼近彼此的地方。一些冷冲突本已给欧洲带来困扰，比如德涅斯特沿岸地区（摩尔多瓦的一个分离主义省份，在乌克兰西部边境之外）。俄罗斯与西方之间可能发生冲突的舞台，或许会被这些冷冲突扩展到乌克兰之外的地方。此外，对于我们各自军队正在采取的行动，双方几乎不进行接触或信息交流，而现有的危机管理措施——无论是北约和俄罗斯之间，还是欧盟和俄罗斯之间——并不足够。而且，双方都拥有大量核武器，一直在幕后处于高度警戒状态。
Many potentially useful mechanisms for dialogue, like the NATO-Russia Council, which in normal times might meet monthly and offer a forum for discussing difficult issues, are also being closed down.
很多可能会有用的对话机制，目前也正在关闭之中。北约-俄罗斯理事会(NATO-Russia Council)就是一个例子：正常情况下，该理事会或许每月都会举行会议，为很多难题的讨论提供了一个舞台。
The upshot is that the current crisis is deepening even as our mutual capacity to discuss, manage and control it is either shrinking by the day or nonexistent.
其结果就是，目前的危机正在不断加剧，但我们双方讨论、管理和控制它的能力不是日益萎缩，就是根本不存在。
To avoid an unintended military escalation and to act to stabilize the situation, we now believe, along with other members of a task force set up by the European Leadership Network, the Russian International Affairs Council and other security think tanks in Europe, that three further sets of measures are necessary, apart from some sort of accommodation in Ukraine itself.
为了避免军事行动的意外升级，为了积极采取行动来稳定局势，我们此刻认为，除了乌克兰本身要进行某种和解之外，还有必要采取三套进一步的措施。它们同时代表了欧洲领导力网络(European Leadership Network)和俄罗斯国际事务理事会(Russian International Affairs Council)等欧洲安全智库成立的一个工作组的其他成员的意见。
First, there needs to be a concerted effort by all parties to ensure military and political restraint not only inside Ukraine, but outside as well. History tells us that one of the most difficult aspects of major-power crisis management is maintaining control over events.
首先，各方需要采取协调一致的行动，来确保军事和政治克制，不仅适用于乌克兰境内，而且适用于其他地方。历史告诉我们，在对大国危机进行管理的过程中，最大的难点之一就是保持对事态的控制。
A recent incident in which a Russian warplane flew close to the guided-missile destroyer Donald Cook in the Black Sea should serve as a warning. Political leaders should review their military rules of engagement to ensure restraint at all levels of command and to reduce any potential for an actual exchange of fire. Similarly, Russia and the West both need to use all their respective influence to ensure that there are no flare-ups in any of the other frozen conflicts in the region.
不久前，在黑海上空，一架俄罗斯军机飞近美国的导弹驱逐舰“唐纳德·库克号”(Donald Cook)。这起事件应当起到警示作用。各国政治领导人应该评估各自的交战规则，以便在各级指挥层次确保克制，并减少真正交火的可能性。同样，俄罗斯和西方都需要尽可能发挥各自的影响力，以保证该地区的其他冷冲突不会突然爆发。
Second, we badly need to improve military-to-military communication and engagement between NATO and Russian commands. If the Cold War taught us anything, it was that steps to reduce the fear of a surprise military attack by one party increase the decision time that leaderships have in a crisis. That acts as a crucial stabilizing influence.
其次，我们还急需改善北约和俄罗斯之间军方对军方的沟通和接触。如果说冷战给我们提供了什么教训，那就是采取一些步骤来减少对一方突然开展军事进攻的恐惧感，可以让领导层在危机中拥有更多的时间来做决策。这是一个有助于维持稳定的重要因素。
We also urge all sides to pursue exchanges of data on the activities of military forces when they are out of garrison and to allow military liaison missions to monitor such movements. Those measures would substantially reduce mutual fear and suspicion.
我们也敦促各方，当军队离开驻地时，要提供这些部队活动的信息，并且允许军事观察团体监督此类调度。这些措施将大大减少相互之间的恐惧和猜忌。
Third, we need to keep alive some direct dialogue between Russia and the West. The NATO-Russia Council was set up to enable contact and communication between the two sides when the relationship was better. But given the current circumstances, it should meet more frequently, not less.
第三，我们需要让俄罗斯与西方之间保持一些直接的对话。北约-俄罗斯理事会的设立，让双方能够在关系较好的时候进行接触和沟通。但就目前的情况来看，理事会开会的频率应该更高，而不是更低。
We also need a major international conference to discuss fundamental issues at the heart of the Helsinki Final Act, the 1975 accord that established territorial integrity and human rights as central to the European security order. It is clear that a chasm of differing interpretations and alternate narratives has opened up between Russia and the West on those matters.
我们还需要举办一场大型国际会议，来商讨《赫尔辛基最后文件》(Helsinki Final Act)中的核心问题。这份签订于1975年的协议明确了，领土完整和人权是欧洲安全秩序的核心议题。很显然，俄罗斯和西方对于这些议题做出了不同的阐释和论述，于是双方之间产生了裂痕。