Charles James was one of American fashion’s first couturiers, as well as one of its most influential designers and most notorious perfectionists. His contemporaries, such as Christian Dior and Mainbocher, venerated him; Balenciaga famously called him the world’s best and only dressmaker, and both Elsa Schiaparelli and Coco Chanel wore his designs. Tonight, The Costume Institute of The Metropolitan Museum of Art will pay tribute to the late master’s 30-year career with the gala for “Charles James: Beyond Fashion,” which opens to the public May 8. Nearly 75 of the 200 designs ever completed by James will be on display at the newly christened Anna Wintour Costume Center and first-floor Special Exhibition Galleries. And to accompany this retrospective, an eponymous book has been written by its curators Harold Koda and Jan Glier Reeder, cataloguing the work on view.
查尔斯·詹姆斯(Charles James)是美国时装界的第一批设计师与最有影响力的设计师之一，也是最著名的完美主义者。他的同辈人，比如克里斯汀·迪奥(Christian Dior)和梅因布彻(Mainbocher)都很尊敬他。众所周知，巴伦西亚加（Balenciaga，巴黎世家的创始人）曾称他为世界上最好的、唯一的裁缝。埃尔莎·夏帕瑞丽(Elsa Schiaparelli)和可可·香奈儿(Coco Chanel)都穿过他设计的衣服。今晚（此处指5月5日——编注），大都会艺术博物馆服装学院将通过“查尔斯·詹姆斯：超越时尚”(Charles James: Beyond Fashion)庆典，向这位已故大师30年的事业致敬，该展览从5月8日起向公众开放。詹姆斯设计的200件服装中的大约75件将在新命名的安娜·温图尔服装中心(Anna Wintour Costume Center)和一层的特别展览艺术馆展出。为了配合这次回顾展，本次展览的策展人哈罗德·科达(Harold Koda)和简·格利尔·里德(Jan Glier Reeder)还写了一本同名图书，分类介绍展出的作品。
When it came time to find a writer for the preface, Koda chose a man similar to James in his approach, innovation and painstaking attention to detail and cut: the 57-year-old American couturier Ralph Rucci. “Ralph’s pursuit of perfection is of such a high degree that it’s as much pain as pleasure,” Koda says. “He shares that with James.” Rucci is also, alongside Mainbocher, one of only two Americans ever invited to show haute couture collections in Paris.
在找人写前言时，科达选择了一个在手法、创新以及对细节和剪裁的不懈追求上与詹姆斯十分相似的人：57岁的美国女装设计师拉尔夫·鲁奇(Ralph Rucci)。“拉尔夫非常追求完美，已经达到了既快乐又痛苦的地步，”科达说，“在这一点上，他和詹姆斯很像。”另外，鲁奇和梅因布彻是仅有的两位曾受邀在巴黎展示高级定制服装系列的美国设计师。
“My very first collection was an homage to Charles James. It was almost entirely bias cut,” Rucci recalls. “Even the sensibility was so Jamesian. I didn’t do that collection to sell clothes. I did it as a test for myself.” James was famous for his dedication to his work while caring very little for anything else, including his friends and family. The latter, Rucci assures, is not a trait he possesses. “People who don’t know me say, ‘He’s like Charles James. He’s difficult.’ I’m not difficult; I’m just precise. I don’t alienate people.”
“我的第一个系列是向查尔斯·詹姆斯致敬。整个系列几乎全是采用斜裁法，”鲁奇回忆说，“甚至连感觉都很像詹姆士的设计。我设计那个系列不是为了销售，而是为了尝试。”詹姆斯以对工作的投入著称，基本不关心其他任何事情，包括朋友和家人。鲁奇说，在后面这一点上，他不像詹姆斯。“不认识我的人会说，‘他和查尔斯·詹姆斯一样，很难相处。’我不难相处，我只是比较严格。但是我不疏远别人。”
Rucci’s fascination with James can be traced to when he first arrived in New York from Philadelphia. At the time, he was fixated on another giant in the history of fashion. “While in college, I’d discovered that in New York City, there was a man who had created a revolution,” Rucci says, “and his name was Halston.” Being exposed to the minimalistic brilliance of Halston inspired the fledgling designer, and further research acquainted him with the work of James. “The purity and the cleanliness with such flair,” says Rucci of Halston’s work, “all came through Charlie.”
鲁奇对詹姆斯的痴迷可以追溯到他第一次从费城来到纽约的时候。那时候，他迷恋服装史上的另一个重要人物。“上大学时我就发现在纽约有个人引发了一场革命，”鲁奇说，“他的名字叫侯司顿(Halston)。”侯司顿精彩的极简主义启发了这位羽翼未丰的设计师，进一步的研究让他熟悉了詹姆斯的作品。鲁奇说，“如此美妙的纯粹和干净，都来自于查尔斯。”
Rucci also points out that Halston even personally employed James after the older designer shut his own label, providing him with a studio on the Upper East Side, and orchestrated the first Charles James retrospective at the defunct Electric Circus nightclub in 1969. Says Rucci, “Halston was quietly and secretly obsessed with him.”
鲁奇还指出，詹姆斯自己的品牌倒闭后，侯司顿亲自聘请了他，给他在上东区提供了一个工作室，并于1969年在电动马戏团夜总会（Electric Circus nightclub，现已不存在）精心组织了第一场查尔斯·詹姆斯回顾展。“侯司顿默默地、偷偷地迷恋他，”鲁奇说。