ROCHESTER — IN 1982, polls showed that 44 percent of Americans believed God had created human beings in their present form. Thirty years later, the fraction of the population who are creationists is 46 percent.
罗切斯特——1982年的民意调查显示，44%的美国人相信人类是由上帝直接创造成今天的模样的。30年后，相信神创论的人占46%。
In 1989, when “climate change” had just entered the public lexicon, 63 percent of Americans understood it was a problem. Almost 25 years later, that proportion is actually a bit lower, at 58 percent.
1989年，当公众刚刚听说“气候变化”这个说法的时候，63%的美国人明白这是一个问题。近25年后，这一比例实际上略有下滑，降至58%。
The timeline of these polls defines my career in science. In 1982 I was an undergraduate physics major. In 1989 I was a graduate student. My dream was that, in a quarter-century, I would be a professor of astrophysics, introducing a new generation of students to the powerful yet delicate craft of scientific research.
这些民意调查的时间表勾勒出我在科学界的生涯。1982年，我是物理专业的本科生。1989年，我成为研究生。那时，我的梦想是，在25年内成为天体物理学教授，引领新一代的学生踏入强大而微妙的科学研究领域。
Much of that dream has come true. Yet instead of sending my students into a world that celebrates the latest science has to offer, I am delivering them into a society ambivalent, even skeptical, about the fruits of science.
这个梦想的大部分已经实现了。然而，我没有将学生送入一个赞扬科学前沿的世界，而我正将他们送去的社会，对科学成果抱有复杂、甚至是怀疑的态度。
This is not a world the scientists I trained with would recognize. Many of them served on the Manhattan Project. Afterward, they helped create the technologies that drove America’s postwar prosperity. In that era of the mid-20th century, politicians were expected to support science financially but otherwise leave it alone. The disaster of Lysenkoism, in which Communist ideology distorted scientific truth and all but destroyed Russian biological science, was still a fresh memory.
教育我的那一代科学家看到今天的世界会感到陌生。他们当中很多人参与了曼哈顿计划(Manhattan Project)。后来，他们帮助创造了推动美国战后繁荣的各种技术。20世纪中叶，人们认为，政界人士应当资助科学研究，但不在其他方面进行干预。李森科主义(Lysenkoism)带来的灾难记忆犹新：共产主义意识形态歪曲了科学事实，差点摧毁苏联的生命科学。
The triumph of Western science led most of my professors to believe that progress was inevitable. While the bargain between science and political culture was at times challenged — the nuclear power debate of the 1970s, for example — the battles were fought using scientific evidence. Manufacturing doubt remained firmly off-limits.
西方科学的成功使我的大部分老师相信，进步是必然的。虽然科学领域与政治文化之间达成的共识有时会遭受挑战——比如，20世纪70年代有关核能的辩论——但他们展开争论的时候拿出的是科学证据。人为制造疑问一直是坚决禁止的行为。
Today, however, it is politically effective, and socially acceptable, to deny scientific fact. Narrowly defined, “creationism” was a minor current in American thinking for much of the 20th century. But in the years since I was a student, a well-funded effort has skillfully rebranded that ideology as “creation science” and pushed it into classrooms across the country. Though transparently unscientific, denying evolution has become a litmus test for some conservative politicians, even at the highest levels.
然而，事到如今，否认科学事实有政治效用，也能为社会所接收。“神创论”的定义非常狭隘，在20世纪的大部分时间里，不过是美国的一个小流派。可是，我毕业之后，一项资金充足的行动巧妙地将这种思想重新打造为“创世学”，并将它推广至全国各地的课堂。尽管显然很不科学，但否认进化论已经成为检验某些保守派政治人士的试金石，就连最高层的人物也适用。
Meanwhile, climate deniers, taking pages from the creationists’ PR playbook, have manufactured doubt about fundamental issues in climate science that were decided scientifically decades ago. And anti-vaccine campaigners brandish a few long-discredited studies to make unproven claims about links between autism and vaccination.
与此同时，否认气候变化的人直接借鉴神创论者的公关手法，在几十年前已有科学定论的气候科学基本问题上生编硬造出疑问。反对接种疫苗的活动人士大肆利用区区几项早已被质疑的研究，人为制造出自闭症与接种疫苗有关的未获证实的说法。
The list goes on. North Carolina has banned state planners from using climate data in their projections of future sea levels. So many Oregon parents have refused vaccination that the state is revising its school entry policies. And all of this is happening in a culture that is less engaged with science and technology as intellectual pursuits than at any point I can remember.
还有很多例子。北卡罗来纳州已经禁止州级规划机构使用气候数据来预测未来的海平面。由于俄勒冈州的很多家长拒绝给孩子接种疫苗，该州正在对入学政策进行修改。上述情况发生在一种文化背景之下，即我们现在把科技作为知识追求的投入度，要比我记忆中的任何时候更小。
Thus, even as our day-to-day experiences have become dependent on technological progress, many of our leaders have abandoned the postwar bargain in favor of what the scientist Michael Mann calls the “scientization of politics.”
因此，即便我们的日常体验已离不开技术进步，我们的很多领导人却抛弃了有利于科学家迈克尔·曼恩(Michael Mann)所说的“政治科学化”的战后共识。
What do I tell my students? From one end of their educational trajectory to the other, our society told these kids science was important. How confusing is it for them now, when scientists receive death threats for simply doing honest research on our planet’s climate history?
我对学生们说什么呢？从一个教育阶段到另一个教育阶段，我们的社会告诉这些孩子，科学非常重要。可是，当今天的科学家仅仅因为老老实实地做地球气候史研究而收到死亡威胁时，孩子们又会感到多么困惑啊？
Americans always expected their children to face a brighter economic future, and we scientists expected our students to inherit a world where science was embraced by an ever-larger fraction of the population. This never implied turning science into a religion or demanding slavish acceptance of this year’s hot research trends. We face many daunting challenges as a society, and they won’t all be solved with more science and math education. But what has been lost is an understanding that science’s open-ended, evidence-based processes — rather than just its results — are essential to meeting those challenges.
美国人总是期望孩子能拥有更加美好的经济前景，而我们科学家则期望学生接手一个科学不断受到更多人支持的世界。这绝不是说，应当将科学变为一种宗教，或者要求大家盲目接受每年的热门研究趋势。我们这个社会面临很多艰巨的挑战，更多的科学和数学教育也不会解决所有问题。我们缺失的是，了解到科学中基于证据的开放式研究过程——而不仅仅是科学成果——对迎接挑战至关重要。
My professors’ generation could respond to silliness like creationism with head-scratching bemusement. My students cannot afford that luxury. Instead they must become fierce champions of science in the marketplace of ideas.
我的老师那一代人可能会对神创论等荒谬的想法有点困惑而已。我的学生却没有这种奢侈。他们必须在市面上的各种观念中英勇地捍卫科学。
During my undergraduate studies I was shocked at the low opinion some of my professors had of the astronomer Carl Sagan. For me his efforts to popularize science were an inspiration, but for them such “outreach” was a diversion. That view makes no sense today.
本科学习期间，一些教授对天文学家卡尔·萨根(Carl Sagan)的评价非常低，让我很震惊。在我看来，他普及科学的努力是一种启发，但对他们来说，这种“推广”是一种打扰。这种观点，在今天毫无意义。
The enthusiasm and generous spirit that Mr. Sagan used to advocate for science now must inspire all of us. There are science Twitter feeds and blogs to run, citywide science festivals and high school science fairs that need input. For the civic-minded nonscientists there are school board curriculum meetings and long-term climate response plans that cry out for the participation of informed citizens. And for every parent and grandparent there is the opportunity to make a few more trips to the science museum with your children.
萨根提倡科学的热情和慷慨精神现在必定会激励我们所有人。传播科学的Twitter账号和博客需要人打理，市镇级别的科学节及高中科学展览需要资源投入。学术界以外具有公民意识的人可以参与学校董事会的课程设置会议，以及长期的气候应急预案的制定。这些活动迫切需要见多识广的公民参与。父母及祖父母们则可以带着孩子多去几次科学博物馆。
Behind the giant particle accelerators and space observatories, science is a way of behaving in the world. It is, simply put, a tradition. And as we know from history’s darkest moments, even the most enlightened traditions can be broken and lost. Perhaps that is the most important lesson all lifelong students of science must learn now.
在巨型粒子加速器和太空望远镜背后，科学是世界的一种运转方式。简单地说，它是一种传统。人类历史的那些最黑暗时刻告诉我们，即使是最昌明的文化传统也可能会遭到破坏或遗失。或许，这就是投身科学的学生现在必须了解的最重要的一课。