PINGYI, China — Here are a few quirky and little-known facts about this industrial backwater some 300 miles southeast of the Chinese capital: Locals have a fondness for fried cicadas, and the city, a major processor of fruits and nuts, bills itself as the “China Foodstuff Canned City.”
山东平邑——这个偏僻的工业小城在中国首都东南方约500公里处，这里有一些离奇和鲜为人知的事实：当地人有爱吃炸蝉的癖好，这座城市是水果和坚果的重要加工地，并自称是“中国罐头城”。
All the same, Pingyi is often overlooked for what should probably be its greatest claim to fame: Paleontologists say it is home to the world’s largest collection of complete dinosaur fossils, many of which show evidence of feathers that have in recent years radically transformed scientific understanding of the evolutionary transition from dinosaur to bird.
尽管如此，平邑最该自命不凡的事情，却往往被忽视。古生物学家说，这里是世界上完整恐龙化石收藏量最多的地方，其中许多藏品都显示了羽毛存在的证据，在近几年里彻底改变了科学界对于恐龙进化到鸟的认知。
Housed in the Tianyu Museum of Nature — the biggest dinosaur museum on earth, according to Guinness World Records — are more than 1,100 fossilized dinosaurs, 2,300 early bird specimens and thousands of other petrified remains (including a 125-foot-long fossilized tree trunk, another record-holder) that draw paleontologists from around the globe.
吉尼斯世界纪录认定，天宇自然博物馆是世界上最大的恐龙博物馆。里面藏有超过1100件恐龙化石，2300件早期鸟类标本以及数以千计的其他遗骸化石（包括一根38米长的树干化石，这是另一个纪录保持项目），这吸引了来自世界各地的古生物学家。
“It’s an incredible museum like no other,” Jingmai O’Connor, 32, an American paleontologist specializing in the origins of birds, said during a recent visit. “We can test a hypothesis here and the great thing is we can double-check it because they’ve got so many specimens.”
“这是一个令人难以置信的博物馆，跟其他的不一样，”专门研究鸟类起源的美国古生物学家，32岁的邹晶梅(Jingmai O’Connor)在最近一次拜访时表示。“我们可以在这里验证一个假说，而且因为他们有这么多的标本，我们可以重复验证，这样就很棒。”
The sprawling collection is a testament to China’s growing importance as a font of paleontological discoveries that are advancing the understanding of the earth’s prehistoric eras.
这里繁多的藏品，证明了中国作为古生物发现的源头日益增长的重要性。这些发现推动了人类对于地球史前时代的了解。
How so many of those discoveries ended up in the museum, which was founded in 2003 and stocked over just five years by the eccentric former head of a state-owned gold mining company, casts light on the murky complexities of the Chinese boom in fossils, which critics bemoan has been tainted with a glut of counterfeits fabricated by unscrupulous sellers.
博物馆建于2003年，之后一家国有金矿公司一位古怪的前负责人，花了五年时间就把它填满了。这些化石发现流入这家博物馆的渠道，恐怕显示出中国化石繁荣的背后，有一些并不透明的复杂因素。批评者抱怨，不道德的卖家炮制的许多仿制品，混入了市面上的化石里。
Around 120 million years ago, most of what is now China was largely dry land. But in the northeast, a lush terrain of lakes and volcanoes proved ideal for fossil preservation. For thousands of years, people here revered the so-called dragon bones they found while tilling the soil. Under Mao Zedong, fossils were taken note of during searches for oil and gas but were not studied.
约1.2亿年前，今天中国的大部分地区都曾是干燥土地。但在东北部地区，分布着湖泊和火山，草木也很茂盛，那里非常适合保存化石。数千年里，这里的人都对他们耕地时发现的所谓龙骨十分崇敬。在毛泽东时代，人们在勘探石油和天然气的过程中发现过化石，但没有对它们加以研究。
“You don’t need to do too much to dig up fossils in China,” said Wang Xiaoli, a local paleontology professor who had come to examine the museum collection. “When the wind blows, they reveal themselves.”
“在中国，发掘化石不用费太大劲儿，”曾来研究博物馆藏品的当地古生物学教授王孝理说。“风一吹，自己就露出来了。”
As market economics took hold in China in the 1980s and 1990s, farmers realized they could earn a small fortune selling their finds to government officials, museums and foreign paleontologists, particularly if they could offer complete specimens. Forgeries became rife, as did altered fossils, with a different species’ bone glued here, a rib augmented with clay there.
在1980和1990年代，随着市场经济在中国发展起来，农民意识到他们可以把发现的化石卖给政府官员、博物馆和国外的古生物学家，从而发笔小财，如果他们能够提供完整标本就更是如此。伪造变得普遍，改动化石的做法也变得很普遍，比如这里粘一根其他物种的骨头，那里的肋骨上多加些黏土装点。
In 1999, a Chinese fossil acclaimed by National Geographic as a “true missing link” between dinosaurs and birds was proved to be a hoax. More recently, a Chinese paleontologist estimated that more than 80 percent of marine reptile specimens displayed in China’s museums “have been altered or artificially combined to varying degrees,” according to a 2012 article in the state-owned China Daily newspaper.
1999年，一块中国化石被《国家地理》(National Geographic)誉为是恐龙和鸟类之间“真正缺少的一环”，此事最终证明是一个骗局。之后在2012年，国有媒体《中国日报》的一篇文章称，一名中国古生物学家估计，展示在中国博物馆里的海生爬行动物标本中，有超过80%曾被“不同程度地改动或人工组合过”。
Although China has issued regulations aimed at protecting its prehistoric patrimony, fossil trafficking is not considered a serious smuggling offense, a loophole that has contributed to a rise in illegal excavations and thefts. In July, the police in southern China seized 213 fossilized dinosaur eggs from a house after villagers looted a local construction site where eggs had been unearthed, state news media reported. The authorities also found the complete skeleton of a Psittacosaurus, a dinosaur that roamed the earth 100 million years ago.
尽管中国已经颁布法规保护该国的史前文物，贩运化石却不被认为是严重的走私罪行，这个法律漏洞造成了非法挖掘和偷窃行为加剧。官方媒体报道，今年7月在中国南部，警方在一间屋子里收缴了213枚恐龙蛋化石。这些化石在当地一个建筑工地出土后，被村民们抢夺回家。警方亦在屋内发现了一副完整的鹦鹉嘴龙骸骨，鹦鹉嘴龙1亿年前生活在地球上。
Yet despite the rampant greed and fraud, authentic Chinese fossils continue to reveal fascinating clues about dinosaurs, early avians and primitive mammals. Many discoveries have been made from studies of the Tianyu collection, including a small batlike dinosaur that may have been able to fly or glide without feathers, known as Yi qi, or “strange wing” in Mandarin, the journal Nature reported in April.
虽然因贪婪和欺诈而发生的事件很猖獗，但中国的化石真品仍然为研究恐龙、早期鸟类和原始哺乳动物提供了更多线索。对天宇自然博物馆的藏品开展的研究，也带来了许多新发现，其中包括一种蝙蝠状的小型恐龙，据4月的《自然》(Nature)杂志报道，该种恐龙或许可以不用羽毛就能飞行或滑翔，被命名为“奇翼龙”。
All of which makes Zheng Xiaoting, the museum’s director and founder, extremely proud. “I love them all,” he said of the fossils, while holding court in a cavernous hall adorned with photographs of visiting government officials and jammed with a herd of brown pleather couches, each the size of a baby Triceratops.
这一切的成果使博物馆馆长兼创办人郑晓廷无比自豪。他在大厅中被人群包围着，谈到这些化石的时候，他说，“全部我都喜欢。”这间宽敞的厅内挂着曾到此参观的政府官员的照片，还摆放了多张小三角龙大小的棕色仿皮沙发。
Modern China is increasingly populated with men like Mr. Zheng, self-made enthusiasts who suddenly have the money to fund their obsessions. A wiry 62-year-old with a military-style flattop, he dropped out of school at 16 to find work in textile factories.
当代中国，像郑晓廷一样的人越来越多。他们白手起家，有自己的爱好，突然拥有了能支持其热衷项目的资金。郑晓廷今年62岁，清瘦结实，理着军人风格的平头，16岁时就辍学去纺织厂工作。
It was in the early ’90s, while managing a government-run gold mine, that he discovered his love for dinosaurs. The part-time hobby eventually became the museum. He said the institution, consisting of three buildings with 28 display halls, was state-owned and required an investment of $61 million, but he would not say where the money came from. He simply said, “I felt I had an obligation to protect the fossils for science.”
在90年代初，管理一座国营金矿时，他发现自己对恐龙情有独钟。这个业余爱好最终变成了这间博物馆。他说，博物馆由三栋楼构成，有28个展厅，是国有博物馆，总投资达4亿元人民币。但他不肯透露资金来源，只是说，“我觉得自己有义务为科学研究保护这些化石。”
He waved away suggestions by some paleontologists that his acquisitions were purchased, a practice that was banned in 2008. “People gave us fossils voluntarily,” he said, describing the payments the donors received as small “rewards.”
有些古生物学家质疑他的藏品是收购所得，而这种买卖行为在2008年已被立法禁止。他否认了这种说法。“大家是自愿捐赠化石，”他说，并且指出捐赠者收到的钱仅是少许“奖励”。
On a recent morning, the museum was almost empty, though local officials boast of 100,000 visitors annually (the American Museum of Natural History in New York had nearly five million visitors in 2014). In Tianyu’s main atrium, a towering pair of cast hadrosaur skeletons provided optimal selfie opportunities for Zhuang Xue, 30, a saleswoman, and her husband, who had driven seven hours from the coastal province of Jiangsu.
尽管当地官员夸口说博物馆的每年参观人次达10万人（纽约的美国自然历史博物馆[American Museum of Natural History]在2014年的参观人次是约500万人），不久前的一个上午，馆内却近乎无人。在天宇自然博物馆的主庭内，一对耸立的鸭嘴龙骨架模型为庄雪（音）和丈夫提供了最佳的自拍机会。庄雪30岁，从事销售工作。他们从沿海的江苏省驾车七个小时来到此地。
“I’ve been to a lot of places, but I’ve never seen anything like this,” she said, gazing around the Thousand Dragons Exhibition Hall, where the fossil of a 125-million-year-old feathered dinosaur, known as Beipiaosaurus, lay under glass near those of eggs and a specimen of the beaked bird Confuciusornis, its long feathers tinged dark brown from eons pressed into pale stone slabs.
“我到过很多地方，但从来没有看到过像这样的东西，”她一边环视着千龙厅，一边说。千龙厅内，一只有1.25亿年历史的有羽毛恐龙——北票龙——的化石躺在展柜的玻璃底下，附近是有喙的圣贤孔子鸟的蛋化石和样本。北票龙的长羽毛因漫长的岁月而呈现深棕色，镶嵌在浅色石板上。
On the museum’s top floor, Dr. O’Connor, the paleontologist and an author of several scientific papers based on Mr. Zheng’s specimens, was captivated by a primitive bird fossil in the collection room. Officials keep the large hall off limits to the general public to prevent rogue academics from using the specimens inside as the basis for papers without crediting the museum or its autodidact founder.
在博物馆的顶层，古生物学家邹晶梅被陈列室里的一件原始鸟类化石吸引。邹晶梅根据郑晓廷收藏的标本写了好几篇科学论文。管理人员限制公众进入这个大型展厅，为的是防止出现无赖学者依据厅内样本撰写论文却不提及该馆或这名白手起家的创始人的情况。
While Dr. O’Connor, a professor at the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology in Beijing, enjoys visiting the museum, its remoteness and the absence of cutting-edge equipment mean that certain specimens must be shipped elsewhere for deeper study.
虽然北京古脊椎动物与古人类研究所教授邹晶梅很喜欢拜访这所博物馆，但这里路途遥远、缺少先进设备，意味着某些样本必须运到其他地方来进行更深入的研究。
A greater challenge comes from the way many Chinese fossils are extracted. “In the West, fossils are dug up by scientists who know how to preserve them,” she said. “In China, they’re collected by dealers who make alterations because it looks better and makes more money.”
更大的问题在于很多中国化石出土的方式。“在西方，化石是由那些知道如何保存它们的科学家发掘的，”她说。“在中国，搜集化石的是商贩。为了让化石看起来状态更好、赚更多钱，他们会对做些改动。”
Mr. Zheng says that less than 3 percent of the specimens he acquired before 2008 were altered and that most of those were returned to their owners.
郑晓廷表示，在他于2008年前获得的化石样本中，做过改动的不到3%。他将其中大部分归还给了所有者。
“There are almost no fake ones in our museum anymore,” he said. The police did visit the museum in 2012 while investigating a fossil dealer they had arrested, he said. “They wanted to figure out where his stash went.” Some of it had ended up at Tianyu, although because Mr. Zheng paid money “merely as a gesture,” the museum was never punished.
他说，“我们的博物馆里几乎没有假化石。”他表示，警方确实在2012年来过博物馆，他们当时在调查逮捕的一名化石交易商。“他们想要搞清楚他藏匿的化石去哪了。”其中一些化石最终放在了天宇博物馆，但因为郑晓廷只是“象征性地”付了点钱，馆里并没有遭到处罚。
Notwithstanding his lack of formal education, Mr. Zheng has an honorary professorship in paleontology from a local university, and his name often appears first on scientific papers based on his beloved trove.
尽管缺少正规教育，郑晓廷在当地一所大学担任古生物学名誉教授，他的名字也经常首先出现在以其心爱藏品为基础的科学论文中。
Then there is another perk of owning the world’s largest agglomeration of dinosaur fossils. On the museum’s ground floor is a petrified chicken-size bird from the Late Jurassic period, about 160 million years ago. Its scientific name, according to the small yellow placard, symbolizes Mr. Zheng’s legacy: Xiaotingia zhengi.
作为世界上最大的恐龙化石收藏者还有一个好处。博物馆的底层有一件源自大约1.6亿年前晚侏罗世的鸟类化石，尺寸跟鸡一样。博物馆的黄色标牌显示，其学名为郑氏晓廷龙(Xiaotingia zhengi)——体现了他的功绩。