LONDON — In early October 2008, three weeks after the Lehman Brothers collapse, I met in Paris with leaders of the countries in the euro zone. Oblivious to the global dimension of the financial crisis, they took the view that if there was fallout for Europe, America would be to blame — so it would be for America to fix. I was unable to convince them that half of the bundled subprime-mortgage securities that were about to blow up had landed in Europe and that euro-area banks were, in fact, more highly leveraged than America’s.
伦敦——2008年10月初，雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)倒闭三周之后，我在巴黎与欧元区国家的领导人见了面。他们对这场金融危机的全球性视而不见，而是认为如果欧洲受到波及，那要归咎于美国——也就是说解决危机是美国的责任。我无法说服他们，在即将违约的打包销售的次级抵押贷款债券中，有一半被卖到了欧洲，而且实际上，欧元区银行的杠杆化程度比美国的银行更高。
Despite the subsequent decision of the Group of 20 in 2009 on the need for rules to supervise what is now a globally integrated financial system, world leaders have spent the last five years in retreat, resorting to unilateral actions that have made a mockery of global coordination. Already, we have forgotten the basic lesson of the crash: Global problems need global solutions. And because we failed to learn from the last crisis, the world’s bankers are carrying us toward the next one.
尽管20国集团随后在2009年认定，需要一些规则来监管如今全球一体化的金融系统，但各国的领导人们过去五年都在进行回避，纷纷采取单边行动，让全球协调成为空话。我们已经忘了从危机中学到的最基本教训：全球性问题需要全球解决方案。而且，由于我们没有从上一次危机中吸取教训，世界各国的银行家们正把我们推向下一次危机。
The economist David Miles, who sits on the monetary policy committee of the Bank of England, may exaggerate when he forecasts financial crises every seven years, but most of the problems that caused the 2008 crisis — excessive borrowing, shadow banking and reckless lending — have not gone away. Too-big-to-fail banks have not shrunk; they’ve grown bigger. Huge bonuses that encourage reckless risk-taking by bankers remain the norm. Meanwhile, shadow banking — investment and lending services by financial institutions that act like banks, but with less supervision — has expanded in value to $71 trillion, from $59 trillion in 2008.
英国央行(Bank of England)货币政策委员会的经济学家大卫·迈尔斯(David Miles)预测每七年爆发一次金融危机。他的说法可能有些夸张，但是造成2008年危机的大多数问题——过度借贷、影子银行和不顾后果的放贷——现在仍然存在。大到不能倒的银行规模非但没有缩小，反而增加了。银行家们仍然在巨额奖金的诱惑下不顾一切地承担风险。与此同时，影子银行业务——类似于银行、但所受监管更少的金融机构从事的投资和贷款服务，这些业务的规模已经从2008年的59万亿美元扩大到了71万亿美元。
Europe’s leaders aren’t the only ones with these blind spots. Emerging-market economies in Asia and Latin America have seen a 20 percent growth in their shadow-banking sectors. After 2009, Asian banks expanded their balance sheets three times faster than the largest global financial institutions, while adding only half as much capital.
并非只有欧洲的领导人存在这些认知盲点。亚洲和拉丁美洲新兴市场经济体的影子银行业已经增长了20%。2009年之后，亚洲银行资产负债表的扩张速度是全球最大的一些金融机构的三倍，而其资本增速仅为后者的一半。
In the patterns of borrowing today, we can already detect parallels with the pre-crisis credit boom. We’re seeing the same over-reliance on short-term capital markets that ultimately brought down Northern Rock, Iceland’s banks and Lehman Brothers.
我们已经能够觉察出如今的借贷状况与危机前的信贷繁荣的种种相似之处。我们看到，人们对短期资本市场的依赖与最终导致北岩银行(Northern Rock)、冰岛的多家银行，以及雷曼兄弟崩溃的情况如出一辙。
While the internationalization of the renminbi is opening up new opportunities for global investment in China, it is also increasing the exposure of the global economy to any vulnerability in its banking sector. China’s total domestic credit has more than doubled to $23 trillion, from $9 trillion in 2008 — as big an increase as if it had added the entire United States commercial banking sector. Borrowing has risen as a share of China’s national income to more than 200 percent, from 135 percent in 2008. China’s growth of credit is now faster than Japan’s before 1990 and America’s before 2008, with half that growth in the shadow-banking sector. According to Morgan Stanley, corporate debt in China is now equal to the country’s annual income.
尽管人民币的国际化为全球开启了对华投资的新机遇，这也增加了全球经济对中国银行业可能存在的脆弱性的风险敞口。中国的信贷总额已经较2008年的9万亿美元增加了一倍有余，达到23万亿美元，这个增幅几乎相当于整个美国的商业银行业的规模。信贷在中国国民收入中的比重已经突破200%，而2008年为135%。中国的信贷增长现在比上世纪90年代之前的日本和2008年以前的美国都快，其中一半的增长来自影子银行业。摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)称，中国的企业负债与中国的年度国民收入相当。
Although sizable foreign reserves make today’s Asia different from the Asia that experienced the 1997 crash in Indonesia, Thailand and South Korea, we are all implicated. If China’s economy were to slow, Asian countries would be doubly hit from the loss of exports and by higher prices. They would face downturns that would feel like depressions.
尽管亚洲如今拥有大规模的外汇储备，但与1997年印尼、泰国和韩国发生金融海啸时不同，我们的命运全都紧密相连。如果中国的经济放缓，由于出口减少和价格上升，亚洲其他国家将受到双倍的打击。他们将面临着大萧条般的经济下滑。
And China’s banking system may not be Asia’s most vulnerable. Thailand’s financial institutions, for example, appear overdependent on short-term foreign loans; and in India, where 10 percent of bank loans have gone bad or need restructuring, banks will need $19 billion in new capital by 2018.
中国的银行体系在亚洲也许不是最脆弱的。泰国的金融机构似乎过度依赖短期的外国贷款；而在印度，10%的银行贷款已经成为坏账或者需要重组，印度的银行到2018年将需要190亿美元的新资本。
If the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America are hit by financial turmoil in coming years, will we not turn to one another and ask why we did not act after the last crisis? Instead of retreating into our national silos, we should have seized the opportunity to fix global standards for how much capital banks must hold, how much they can lend against their equity, and how open they are about their liabilities.
如果亚洲和拉丁美洲的新兴市场未来几年受到金融海啸的冲击，我们会不会面面相觑，互相询问，为什么上一次危机之后我们没有采取行动？我们不应该只是解决自己国家的问题，而是应该抓住机会，制定全球规则：银行必须拥有多少资本；相对于其资本规模，放贷规模能有多大；以及它们应该在多大程度上披露负债状况。
The Volcker Rule, now approved by American regulators, illustrates the initial boldness and ultimate weakness of our post-2008 response. This element of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law of 2010 forbids deposit-taking banks in the United States from engaging in short-term, proprietary trading. But these practices are still allowed in Europe. Controls are even weaker in Latin America and Asia.
美国监管机构已经批准的“沃尔克规则”(Volcker Rule)，突显了我们在2008年危机后的反应中最初的魄力，以及最终的脆弱。沃尔克规则是2010年的多德-弗兰克(Dodd-Frank)金融改革法的组成部分，它禁止吸纳存款的美国银行参与短期的自营交易。但是这类操作在欧洲仍被允许。拉美和亚洲的监管则更加脆弱。
International rules are needed for international banks. Without them, as the International Monetary Fund has warned, global banks will evade regulation “by moving operations, changing corporate structures, and redesigning products.”
跨国银行需要国际规则。就像国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)所警告的，如果没有国际规则，跨国银行将“通过转移业务、改变公司结构和重新设计产品来逃避监管”。
When I was chairman of the G-20 summit meeting here in April 2009, our first principle was that future financial crises that started in one continent would affect all continents. That was why we charged the new Global Financial Stability Board with setting global standards and rules.
2009年4月，当我在伦敦担任20国集团峰会主席时，我们的第一个共识就是，未来在一个大陆上发端的金融危机将影响整个世界。这就是为什么我们要求新的全球金融稳定理事会(Global Financial Stability Board)负责设定全球标准和规则。
Nearly five years on, its chairman, the Bank of England governor Mark Carney, has spoken of “uneven progress” in recapitalizing banks and making them disclose their risks. The G-20 plan for oversight of shadow banking is, as yet, only a plan. While the world’s $600 trillion derivatives market is being regulated with new minimum capital and reporting requirements, global financial regulators must “find a way to collaborate across borders,” Mr. Carney says.
差不多五年过去了，全球金融稳定理事会主席、英国央行行长马克·卡尼(Mark Carney)提及了在银行资本结构调整和风险披露方面“不均衡的进展”。到目前为止，20国集团监管影子银行的计划仍然只是计划。卡尼说，尽管全球规模达600万亿美元的衍生品市场正在受到监管，要满足新的最低资本和披露要求，全球的金融监管机构必须“找到一种实现跨境合作的方式”。
In short, precisely what world leaders sought to avoid — a global financial free-for-all, enabled by ad hoc, unilateral actions — is what has happened. Political expediency, a failure to think and act globally, and a lack of courage to take on vested interests are pushing us inexorably toward the next crash.
简而言之，世界各国领导人希望避免的——由临时推出的单边行动所滋养的全球金融大混战——恰恰正在发生。因为我们在政治上只顾眼前利益、缺乏全球化思考和行动的能力，并且缺乏触及既得利益的勇气，这个世界正在不可避免地被推向下一次危机。