The place was built for a coronation, a colossal theater where hundreds of thousands could bear witness and celebrate. When Maracanã opened in 1950, in the heart of Rio, it was the world’s largest stadium, the site of what Brazil was certain would be its first World Cup championship. And things started well enough: The host country breezed through to the final match, where, because of tournament rules at the time, it needed only a draw against Uruguay to win the whole event. With little more than 10 minutes to go, the score was 1-1, and the fans were on edge. Then the Uruguayan winger Alcides Ghiggia put them over with a sudden strike. “Only three people have, with just one motion, silenced the Maracanã,” he famously said later. “Frank Sinatra, Pope John Paul II and me.”
这个地方是为加冕礼修建的，像一个巨大的剧院，上百万人可以在这里见证加冕过程并庆祝。位于里约热内卢市中心的马拉卡纳(Maracanã)体育场1950年建成的时候，是世界上最大的体育场，巴西确信自己会在这里赢得第一个世界杯冠军。事情开始进行得很顺利：主办国轻松进入决赛，根据当时的联赛规则，它只需和乌拉圭踢平就能夺冠。在还剩差不多10分钟的时候，比分仍是1：1，球迷们兴奋不安。这时乌拉圭的边锋阿尔喀德斯·吉贾(Alcides Ghiggia)突施冷射，令球迷们目瞪口呆。“只有三个人仅凭一个动作就能让整个马拉卡纳体育场安静，”吉贾后来说。他的这句话非常出名。“弗兰克·辛纳塔(Frank Sinatra)，教皇约翰·保罗二世(Pope John Paul II)和我。”
The loss, known as the Maracanaço (since used to refer to any loss by the national team on its home field), became a defining moment for Brazilian soccer. (For more on the game’s enduring impact, see Christoph Niemann’s animated feature, “Curse of Maracanã.”) Just last month, Pelé, a three-time World Cup winner himself, was still talking about the defeat as his earliest soccer memory and “the first time I’d seen so many people depressed and so many people crying.” He also told FIFA’s website: “I hope nobody comes and does what Ghiggia did. . . . I don’t want to remember 1950. I have to have confidence and believe in victory.”
这次失利被称为“马拉卡纳失败”（从那以后用以指代巴西国家队在主场的任何一次失败），成为巴西足球的一个决定性时刻（想了解更多关于这场比赛的持续影响，请看克里斯托弗·涅曼[Christoph Niemann]的动画长片《马拉卡纳的诅咒》[Curse of Maracanã]）。就在上个月，曾三次赢得世界杯的贝利(Pelé)再次提到，那次失败是他最早的足球记忆，“我第一次看到那么多人沮丧，哭泣。”他还对国际足联的网站说：“我希望不要再出现第二个吉贾……我不想记起1950年。我必须充满信心，相信我们能获胜。”