SEOUL, South Korea — In a sign of unabated anger with the government over last year’s Sewol ferry disaster, which killed more than 300 people, families of the victims refused to see President Park Geun-hye on Thursday when she visited a memorial on the anniversary of the sinking.
韩国首尔——在“世越号”(Sewol)渡轮沉没事件的周年纪念日上，遇难者亲属拒绝与参加纪念仪式的总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)会面，从而显示出，这一惨剧引发的愤怒仍未平息。沉船事件最终导致300多人死亡。
Hundreds of miles away, in a city that lost 250 high school students, other family members blocked Prime Minister Lee Wan-koo, the No. 2 official in Ms. Park’s government, from visiting a second memorial site.
在数百公里以外的一座城市，政府二号人物总理李完九(Lee Wan-koo)在参加另一场吊唁仪式时，也受到了死者亲属的阻挠。去年，来自当地的250名高中生在该事件中遇难。
The snub of South Korea’s leaders suggested that their efforts to heal raw wounds were instead opening fresh ones in a nation still grieving over the loss of lives when the overloaded ferry capsized a year ago.
家属的抗拒显示，韩国领导人想要抚平伤口的努力反而变成了伤口撒盐之举，而这个国家依然在为一年前超载导致的渡轮沉没事件沉浸于悲伤之中。
“The government and politicians had said they would change after the Sewol, but nothing has changed,” Chun Myong-son, a representative of the victims’ relatives, told reporters in Ansan, an industrial city south of Seoul where most of the victims went to high school. “They have no right to pay tribute to the victims.”
“政府和政客们曾说过他们在“世越号”事件之后会有所改变，但是什么也没变，”代表遇难者家属的全明肃(Chun Myong-son)在安山市对记者表示。“他们没有吊唁死者的权利。”安山市是首尔以南的工业城市，大多数死者在遇难前都在当地上高中。
Relatives of the victims left a memorial center on Jindo, a southern island near the site of the sinking, hours before Ms. Park arrived. Before departing, they put up large banners accusing her government of blocking an independent investigation into its failures during rescue efforts and the causes of the sinking. The banners also called for the raising of the 6,825-ton ferry from the sea bottom — a costly project that Ms. Park said her government would undertake “as soon as possible.”
遇难者家属在朴槿惠抵达之前几个小时，离开了沉船地点附近的南部岛屿珍岛上的追思厅。在离开之前，他们打起大型横幅，指责她的政府阻挠了针对救援不力和沉没事件起因的独立调查。横幅还呼吁政府从海底打捞那艘重达6825吨的渡轮。朴槿惠已经说过，她的政府会“尽快”展开打捞行动。这一项目预计会耗费巨资。
Ms. Park’s response to the disaster has thus far been her biggest legacy as president.
迄今为止，朴槿惠对沉船事件的应对已经成了她在总统任期内给人留下最深刻印象的事情。
“It’s time to overcome the pains and hardship from the Sewol incident and move on to build a new South Korea,” Ms. Park said from Jindo, where she viewed photographs of victims, including nine still missing. “We cannot stay trapped in the sadness and frustrations that have gripped us for the past year.”
“到了抛开“世越号”事件带来的悲痛与困苦的时候了，我们要继续前进，建立一个崭新的韩国，”朴槿惠在珍岛表示。“我们不能继续受困于在过去一年中紧紧包围了我们的那些悲伤与失意。”她在珍岛瞻仰了包括九名失踪者在内的遇难者相片。
An association of student victims’ families issued a statement saying that Ms. Park had “no qualifications” as president. It accused her of trying to place blame for the disaster not on her government’s regulatory failures but on what she has called the people’s “indifference toward safety.”
由学生遇难者家属组成的协会发布了一份声明，称朴槿惠“没有资格”担任总统，并指责她试图逃避责任，将问题归于人们“对安全的漠不关心，”而不是政府在监管方面的失职。
Over the decades, South Koreans have suffered a war, a military dictatorship and a string of disasters often attributed to disregard for safety standards in the country’s mad rush for economic growth. But few disasters have shocked South Koreans more than the Sewol sinking.
在过去几十年里，韩国民众在该国疯狂奔向经济增长的同时，经历了战争、军事独裁，以及一系列灾难性事件。而这些事件经常被归咎于对安全规定的无视。但没有几起灾难性事件像“世越号”沉船事件这样让韩国人感到震惊。
Many of the students who died had sent text messages and smartphone video clips from inside the slowly sinking ship, asking for help that never came and bidding farewell to their parents. Crew members fled the ship after telling passengers to stay put. Coast Guard officials did little more than pick up passengers who had escaped on their own.
很多学生在遇难前，曾通过从缓慢沉没的渡轮内发出的短信和智能手机视频，向外界求救，并与父母告别。但救援人员未能及时赶到。渡轮上的工作人员在告诉乘客待在原地之后，逃离了渡轮。海岸警卫队也只是捞起了那些自行逃离的乘客。
On Thursday, the country marked the anniversary of the sinking with disbelief. In Ansan, home to Danwon High School, which the dead students had attended, a memorial siren wailed for one minute as many pedestrians stopped in silence. Across the country, Buddhist temples tolled their bells. Churches held prayers and Masses. Pop singers released memorial podcasts.
周二，韩国民众在纪念“世越号”沉船事件时仍然感觉难以置信。死难学生来自安山市的檀园高中(Danwon High School)，在当地，表达追悼的警笛在城市中回荡了一分钟。在该国各地，佛教寺庙敲响了钟声。各处教堂组织了祈祷和弥撒活动。流行歌手们也发布了纪念沉船事件的播客。
Hundreds of Danwon High students piled into a white tent the government had erected near their school and placed white chrysanthemums and letters before photographs of their dead schoolmates. Many sobbed, and some collapsed on the floor.
上千名檀园高中的学生走入了政府在学校附近树立的白色帐篷，将白色菊花和信放在了去世同学的相片前。很多人都在抽泣，一些人更是瘫倒在地。
On Thursday night, thousands of people, including victims’ relatives and some high school students carrying white chrysanthemums, marched through a main boulevard in downtown Seoul, chanting “Raise the Sewol and raise the truth!” and “Down with Park Geun-hye!”
周四晚间，包括死者家属和高中生在内的数千人带着白色菊花走上了首尔市中心的一条大道，高呼“打捞世越，打捞真相”和“打倒朴槿惠”。
Officials built walls with police buses to block the protesters from reaching a plaza in central Seoul, where some families and supporters have been camping for the past year. Hundreds of marchers, some hurling eggs, clashed with riot police while trying to bypass the walls. The police fought back using shields and liquid tear gas.
官员用警局的大巴车作为路障，挡住了示威者前行的脚步，阻止他们到达市中心的一个广场。一些亲属和支持者对那里的占领已有一年之久。数百上千的游行者在尝试绕过路障时与防暴警察发生冲突，一些人扔了鸡蛋。警方则竖起盾牌，报之以液态催泪瓦斯。
In past weeks, victims’ family members have held rallies charging Ms. Park’s administration with trying to “sabotage” an independent investigative panel by curtailing its budget and installing government officials in central posts. The panel was opened under a special law passed in November but has barely begun work.
在过去几周里，受害者亲属组织了集会活动，指控朴槿惠政府试图“破坏”一个独立调查组，其手段包括缩减其预算和把政府官员安插到关键位置。调查组的设立是依据去年11月通过的一项特殊法律进行的，但迄今基本没有开始运转。
When Mr. Lee visited the white-tent memorial center in Ansan, victims’ relatives blocked him from entering. A large memorial ceremony scheduled to be held there was canceled at the request of the families.
当李完九来到安山，试图进入白色帐篷搭成的追思厅时，遇难者亲属拒绝让他入内。在死者家人的请求之下，一个安排好的大型纪念仪式被取消。
Mr. Lee has been campaigning to fight corruption, including collusive ties between business and politics, which were cited as a central cause of the Sewol disaster. But he himself is now under pressure to step down after being accused of corruption.
李完九一直大力宣传反腐，其打击对象包括企业与政客之间的勾结，而这一点也被指出是“世越号”惨剧的重要原因。但他自己现在也被指陷入贪腐，面临着辞职的压力。
A businessman under investigation as part of the government’s anticorruption drive hanged himself this month. But he did not go silently: He left a memo and an audiotaped interview with a newspaper in which he detailed illegal cash donations he said he had made to politicians, including Mr. Lee and several of Ms. Park’s presidential campaign managers and closest allies.
一个接受政府反腐调查的商人自缢身亡。但他并没有沉默地离去。他留下了备忘录及与一份报纸进行的采访录音。在采访中，他详述了自己给出的非法政治献金，他说他把这些钱给了政客们，其中就包括李完九和朴槿惠的几位亲密盟友及其总统竞选活动的经理们。