WASHINGTON — Leaders at World Bank and International Monetary Fund meetings on Sunday pleaded, warned and cajoled: the United States must raise its debt ceiling and reopen its government or risk “massive disruption the world over,” as Christine Lagarde, the fund’s managing director, put it.
华盛顿——周日参加世界银行(World Bank)与国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）会议的领导人发出了恳求、警告和劝诱，称美国必须提高债务上限，使政府重新运行，否则就会像IMF总裁克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)所说的那样， 美国将面临“对整个世界造成大规模破坏”的风险。
The fiscal problems of the United States overshadowed the official agendas for the meetings, with representatives from dozens of countries — including two of Washington’s most important economic partners, Saudi Arabia and China — publicly expressing worries about what was happening on Capitol Hill and in the White House.
美国的财政问题使此次会议的正式议程黯然失色，来自几十个国家的代表公开表达了对美国国会(Capitol Hill)和白宫目前局势的担忧，他们所代表的国家包括美国两个最重要的经济合作伙伴——沙特阿拉伯和中国。
The leaders came to Washington to talk about the international recovery, Ms. Lagarde said in an interview on the NBC News program “Meet the Press.” “Then they found out that the debt ceiling was the issue,” she added. “They found out that the government had shut down and that there was no remedy in sight.”
拉加德在接受NBC新闻节目《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)采访时表示，领导人们来华盛顿的目的是讨论有关全球经济复苏的问题。“然后，他们发现债务上限成为了讨论主题，”她补充说。“他们发现美国政府已经停摆，现在还看不到补救措施。”
“So it really completely transformed the meeting in the last few days,” Ms. Lagarde said.
拉加德表示，“因此，过去几天里，这个问题实实在在地彻底改变了会议的主题。”
With only three days left before a potential default, Senate leaders failed on Sunday to reach agreement on a plan to reopen the government and raise the debt limit.
距离潜在的债务违约仅剩三天时间，参议院领导人周日却没能就重启政府、提高债务上限的计划达成一致。
Many leaders at the World Bank and I.M.F. meetings said they believed the impasse would be resolved before Thursday, when the government would be at severe risk of not having enough money to pay all its bills on any given day going forward.
很多参加世界银行及IMF会议的领导人表示，他们认为，僵局将会在周四之前打破，到周四的时候，政府将面临严重的风险，随时可能无钱付清账单。
But they pressed Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke — who were both at the I.M.F. meeting — on the issue, predicting that even a near-default would lead to higher borrowing costs and a slowdown of the global economy.
不过，他们仍然就这个问题向参与IMF会议的美国财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)及美联储(Federal Reserve)主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)施压，并且预测，接近违约的局面也会导致借款成本增加，全球经济放缓。
“This cannot happen, and this shall not happen,” Baudouin Prot, chairman of the French bank BNP Paribas, said at a meeting of the Institute of International Finance that was also being held in Washington. “The consequences of this would be absolutely disastrous.”
“这种情况不能出现，也不应该出现，”参与国际金融研究所(Institute of International Finance)在华盛顿举行的会议时，法国巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)董事长博杜安·普罗特(Baudouin Prot)表示。“这种情况的后果绝对是灾难性的。”
Mr. Lew acknowledged the threat. “Our work begins at home,” he said. “We recognize that the United States is the anchor of the international financial system. With the deepest and most liquid financial markets, when risk rises, the flight to safety and to quality brings investors to U.S. markets. But the United States cannot take this hard-earned reputation for granted.”
雅各布·卢承认存在这种风险。“我们要先处理国内的问题，”他说。“我们知道美国是国际金融系统的支柱。这里有规模最大且流动性最大的金融市场，风险增加时，投资者会到美国市场寻求保障和收益。但美国不能把这种来之不易的声誉视为理所当然的东西。”
Participants at the meetings remained on edge, given the gravity of the threat. Ms. Lagarde said “that lack of certainty, that lack of trust in the U.S. signature” would disrupt the world economy.
由于威胁非常严重，与会者都处于紧张不安的状态。拉加德表示，“确定性的缺失，以及对美国担保的信任缺失”将会扰乱世界经济。
Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, issued his own urgent appeal. “The fiscal standoff has to be resolved without delay,” he said in a statement released by the I.M.F.
德国财政部长沃尔夫冈·朔伊布勒(Wolfgang Schäuble)发出了紧急呼吁。他在IMF发表的一份声明中表示，“必须立刻打破财政僵局。”
Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, painted a bleak picture of the days ahead if there is no resolution.
摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)首席执行官杰米·戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)表示，如果没有解决方案，未来的日子将会非常暗淡。
“As you get closer to it, the panic will set in and something will happen,” Mr. Dimon said at the international institute event. “I don’t personally know when that problem starts.”
“威胁接近时，就会出现恐慌，就会有事情发生，”戴蒙在国际金融研究所的会议上说。“我不知道，这样的问题会在什么时候出现。”
He added that JPMorgan had been “spending huge amounts of time and money and effort to be prepared.”
他还说，摩根大通“花费了大量的时间和金钱来进行防范。”
Many of the high-ranking officials present in Washington for the meetings made open appeals to Congress, with warnings coming from many of Washington’s allies and creditors. Ms. Lagarde’s counterpart at the World Bank, the American physician Jim Yong Kim, said the world was “days away from a very dangerous moment.”
来华盛顿参会的很多高层官员都向国会提出了公开请求，美国政府的许多盟友和债权人也发出了警告。世界银行(World Bank)行长、美国医师金墉(Jim Yong Kim)说，世界“距离一个非常危险的时刻只有几天了”。
“The closer we get to the deadline the greater the impact will be for the developing world,” he said.
他说，“我们离最后期限越近，对发展中国家造成的冲击就越大。”
Fahad Almubarak, governor of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency, said “urgent political agreements on budget and debt issues are necessary to preserve and, indeed, reinforce the modest recovery.” And Yi Gang, an official with China’s central bank, said the fiscal uncertainties “must be addressed promptly.”
沙特阿拉伯货币管理局(Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency)局长法赫德·阿尔穆巴拉克(Fahad Almubarak)说，“必须维系关于预算和债务的紧急政治协议，认真说来，还需要加强目前的适度复苏。”中国央行官员易纲称，“必须立即应对”财政上的不确定性。
Concern over the impasse has already led to a slide in stocks — including the worst two-day dip in the markets in months. American economic confidence has taken the worst hit since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008. And investors have dumped certain short-term Treasury debt because of fears that the Treasury might not pay them back on time.
人们对这一僵局的担忧已导致股市下跌，包括数月来最严重的连续两日股市下跌。美国的经济信心受到了自2008年雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)破产以来最严重的打击。投资者担心财政部无法及时偿付，因此抛售了一些短期政府债券。
Markets ended last week with a burst of optimism, after House Republicans took the first steps toward a compromise. But that optimism faded over the weekend. On Sunday, with negotiations in the Senate stalled, the value of the dollar was sliding.  
上周，众议院共和党人为妥协做出第一步努力之后，市场信心急速增加。但是，这种乐观情绪已在周末逐渐消失。周日，参议院的协商停滞之后，美元开始贬值。
There has been much debate about how quickly problems will ripple through the economy before and after the deadline. The Treasury Department will continue to take in money and might be able to pay its bills for as long as two weeks. Some House Republicans have said that even if the Treasury misses some payments, it will have enough money to avoid defaulting on its debt, the most frightening outcome for financial markets.
最后期限到来之前和到来之后，各种后果将以怎样的速度在经济领域蔓延，关于这个问题，人们进行了许多争论。财政部(Treasury Department)将继续接受资金，或许能够在长达两周的时间内维持偿债能力。一些众议院共和党人说，即便无法偿还某些债务，财政部也有足够的钱来避免债务违约。对于金融市场来说，债务违约将是最可怕的结局。
The I.M.F., which lends to governments that have trouble finding financing on the sovereign debt markets, said it had been planning for any market disruptions. Mr. Kim of the World Bank said that the United States’ flirtation with default in 2011 raised borrowing costs for many poor countries, and that the effects lasted for months.
IMF一般会借钱给无法在主权债务市场上获得融资的政府。该机构表示，它一直在为市场出现异常做准备。世界银行的金墉说，美国对2011年债务违约的不认真态度增加了很多贫穷国家的借贷成本，其影响持续了数月之久。
Much of the attention has been on the enormous outstanding pool of Treasury bonds and bills. Short-term government bills are used to grease the wheels for many financial transactions and provide a benchmark from which other assets are priced. If the value of that debt was suddenly drawn into question, markets could quickly seize up.
人们的注意力主要集中在尚未偿付的大量政府债券上。短期政府债券通常被用来为很多财政交易提供动力，并为其他资产的定价提供基准。倘若这种债券的价值出现问题，市场可能会迅速停止运转。
Anshu Jain, the co-chief executive of Deutsche Bank, said on the international institute panel that his executive team had been trying to make contingency plans in case of a default, but it had struggled to come up with measures that would significantly stem the losses.
德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)联合首席执行官安舒·贾恩(Anshu Jain)在IMF小组会议上说，他的行政团队一直在尝试制定应对违约的应急计划，但却很难提出能够大幅度减少损失的措施。
“You don’t want to go into all of it,” Mr. Jain said. “This would be a very rapidly spreading fatal disease.”
“你绝对不会想卷入所有这些事情，”贾恩说。“这将成为一场传播速度非常快的致命性灾难。”