LONDON — Almost anything linked to Winston Churchill can be collectible, right down to the butts of his cigars. But it is hard to imagine an artifact rarer or more intimate than the one scheduled to be auctioned March 12: a vial of his blood.
伦敦——几乎任何与温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)有关的东西都值得收藏，连他抽剩的雪茄头也不例外。但是，很难想象有什么东品会比定于3月12日拍卖的一件物品更罕见、与他本人的关系更密切：他的一小瓶血液。
The sample, long since turned from red to amber, was collected in 1962 by Patricia Fitzgibbon, a student nurse at Middlesex Hospital in London, where Churchill was being treated for a hip injury. The vial was supposed to be discarded after his stay, but Fitzgibbon got permission to keep it as a souvenir, according to a statement by Duke's Auctioneers, which is organizing the sale.
这个血液样本由伦敦米德尔塞克斯医院(Middlesex Hospital)的实习护士帕特里夏·菲茨吉本(Patricia Fitzgibbon)在1962年采集，早已从红色变成了琥珀色。当时，因为髋部受伤，丘吉尔在那里接受治疗。组织此次拍卖的杜克拍卖行(Duke's Auctioneers)在声明中称，这瓶血液本应在丘吉尔出院后处理掉，但菲茨吉本获得了留下它做纪念的许可。
Fitzgibbon kept the glass vial, which is seven centimeters, or 2  3/4 inches, long and labeled “Sir Winston S. Churchill W.W.B.9” in black ink, until shortly before her death, when she entrusted it to a friend. The friend decided to sell it this year, the 50th anniversary of Churchill's death.
菲茨吉本一直保存着这个高7厘米的玻璃小瓶，瓶上用黑色墨水标注着“温斯顿·S·丘吉尔爵士WWB9”的字样。离世前不久，她把它托付给了一位朋友。这位朋友决定，在丘吉尔逝世50周年的今年将其售出。
The auction house said it has already attracted interest from private collectors. The question is how to put a price on it.
杜克拍卖行表示，不少私人收藏者已经对它表示了兴趣。问题是如何为它定价。
The market value of the vial “is a very difficult thing to estimate,” Timothy Medhurst, an auctioneer and appraiser at Duke's, said. He noted that Churchill's cigar butts have been known to change hands for 500 pounds, about $773, but the blood sample “is the closest you can get to Churchill.”
在该行担任拍卖师和估价师的蒂莫西·梅德赫斯特(Timothy Medhurst)说，这一小瓶血液的市值“非常难以估计”。他指出，丘吉尔的雪茄烟头已知的成交价为500英镑（约合4800元人民币），但血液样本“能最大限度地拉近你与丘吉尔的距离”。
“There is nothing to guide it, because nothing like it has ever come up to auction,” Medhurst said, calling the vial “the most poignant and unique memorabilia we've ever had.”
“没有任何东西能作为参考，因为以往根本没有类似的东西被拿来拍卖，”梅德赫斯特说。他称这瓶血“是我们所拥有的最令人伤感而又独特的纪念品”。
Even so, some number had to be put on it, and Medhurst said he expected the blood to sell for at least 1,000 pounds, about $1,546, in the auction next month. (What his toil, tears and sweat would fetch is anyone's guess.)
尽管如此，还是得给它贴上价签。梅德赫斯特表示，他预计这瓶血在下个月的拍卖中至少会拍出1000英镑。（至于他的辛劳、泪水和汗水能卖到什么价格，就无从得知了。）
Churchill fractured his hip by falling out of bed while on vacation in Monte Carlo in 1962. He was flown back to London and spent several weeks at the hospital, recuperating and bedeviling the staff.
1962年，丘吉尔在蒙特卡洛度假时从床上摔了下来，髋骨破裂。随后，他被送上飞机回到了伦敦，在米德尔塞克斯医院待了几周。康复期间，工作人员也备受折磨。