BUKIT WANG BURMA, Malaysia — Among the debris of wood, bamboo and plastic tarpaulin at an abandoned camp in the dense jungle here lies a coffin-size cage made from sticks tied together with rusted barbed wire. Next to it, an enclosure that could have held dozens of people also bristles with barbed wire. And over a ridge, the police have started unearthing bodies from shallow graves.
马来西亚武吉旺布玛——这是一个位于茂密丛林里的废弃营地，现场满是木头、竹子和塑料帆布的碎屑，当中有一个用木条和生锈铁丝网捆扎起来的棺材大小的笼子。旁边那个可以容纳数十人的围栏也布满了带刺的铁丝网。翻过一个高坡，警察开始从浅浅的坟墓中挖掘尸体。
The police in Malaysia have said little about the grim discoveries at desolate camps like this one on a hillside near the country’s border with Thailand. But what was left behind here suggests that the camps were busy holding stations for migrants under the control of ruthless, sophisticated human trafficking rings.
马来西亚警方对在荒凉营地里发现的惨状三缄其口，如马泰边境山坡上这座营地的情景。但现场遗留的痕迹说明，这些营地曾是忙碌的关押中心，用来扣押被精明狠毒的蛇头控制的移民。
The Malaysian government on Tuesday took reporters on a two-hour trek through a buzzing jungle to view this camp in the state of Perlis, in the country’s far north. It is one of several where investigators say they have identified a total of 139 graves believed to hold the bodies of migrants, including members of the Rohingya minority fleeing religious persecution in Myanmar.
马来西亚政府周二带领记者徒步两个小时，穿过一片蚊虫嗡嗡作响的丛林，前往位于极北端的玻璃市州的这座营地。调查人员称，他们在几个营地中总共发现了139个坟墓，这座营地就是其中之一。据信，坟墓中掩埋的是移民的尸体，包括逃避缅甸宗教迫害的罗辛亚少数民族。
Not far across the border, in Thailand’s Songkhla Province, the Thai authorities have uncovered graves containing at least 36 more bodies.
在距离边境不远的泰国宋卡府，泰国当局发现了至少埋有36具尸体的坟墓。
A crackdown in southern Thailand on these human trafficking networks is believed to have triggered the regionwide crisis this month in which thousands of migrants were abandoned by smugglers and stranded at sea. More than 3,000 have landed in Malaysia and Indonesia in recent weeks, and the International Organization for Migration appealed on Tuesday for $26 million to help them.
据信，在泰国南部开展的打击人口贩运网络的行动，本月引发了一场区域性危机，数千名移民被蛇头抛弃，困在海上。最近几周，已有3000多人抵达马来西亚和印度尼西亚。周二，国际移民组织(International Organization for Migration)呼吁筹集2600万美元（约合1.6亿元人民币）来帮助他们。
Muhammad Bahar, a detective with the police in Perlis, said officers exhumed a body on Tuesday from one of 37 primitive graves discovered near this camp in Bukit Wang Burma. He said it was too early to draw any conclusions about the identity of the dead person or the cause of death.
玻璃市的警探穆罕默德·巴哈尔(Muhammad Bahar)表示，警方周二在武吉旺布玛(Bukit Wang Burma)营地附近的一座坟墓中挖掘出一具尸体，那里共有37座简陋的坟墓。他表示，现在就死者身份或死因下结论为时尚早。
“Another forensic team will confirm later,” he said, standing near the exhumation site, where other officers worked with shovels and hoes. “We have to let forensic do their job.”
“另一个法医小组随后会进行确认，”他站在挖掘现场附近说。“我们得让法医进行鉴定。”其他警察都在用铁锹和锄头在现场进行挖掘。
But the scene appeared to add weight to reports that migrants smuggled across Southeast Asia by traffickers had suffered extreme brutality. The lower part of the camp was dominated by what appeared to be a holding pen made from wooden poles crisscrossed by barbed wire. On higher ground, a dilapidated watchtower looked over the settlement, which also had a trash pit and a large water tank, suggesting that the site could have been used to hold hundreds of people.
但这个景象似乎进一步证明了相关报道，即那些通过蛇头偷渡跨越东南亚的移民，遭受了极端暴虐的对待。营地地势较低的地方，主要是似乎用木杆和带刺铁丝捆绑而成的围栏。高处有一个能够俯瞰营地的破旧瞭望塔，营地里还有一个垃圾坑和一个大水槽，显示这里可能曾被用来关押数百名移民。
Those who have studied human trafficking said the syndicates often supplemented their smuggling operations with ransom and extortion schemes. Relatives of those smuggled into Thailand are often called and ordered to transfer large sums in exchange for the freedom of their relatives, according to advocates for the migrants and the migrants themselves.
研究人口走私问题的专家表示，除组织偷渡外，那些团伙还常常进行勒索和敲诈。据移民权利倡导人士和移民自己介绍，被贩运至泰国的那些人的亲属常会接到电话，要求他们支付大笔赎金换取亲人的自由。
“They beat you and tell you to call home and come up with the money,” Jeffrey Labovitz, chief of mission of the International Organization for Migration in Thailand, said by telephone. “It’s a ruthless business mentality.”
“他们会打你，让你给家里打电话，叫他们拿钱来，”国际移民组织泰国分部负责人杰弗里·拉博维茨(Jeffrey Labovitz)在接受电话采访时说。“这是一种残忍的经营心态。”
The trafficking rings demand payments as high as $3,000 to release their clients, who are sometimes starved and abused to put pressure on relatives to come up with the money, according to Alistair D. B. Cook, a research fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University in Singapore.
据新加坡南洋理工大学拉惹勒南国际研究院(S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies)研究员阿利斯泰尔·D·B·库克(Alistair D. B. Cook)介绍，人口走私团伙为放人开出的价码可高达3000美元。蛇头有时候会毒打移民，让他们挨饿，以便向亲属施加索取赎金。
“Extortion isn’t the word for it,” Mr. Cook said. “The alternative is death. It’s worse than extortion.”
“这可不叫敲诈，”库克说。“不给钱就是死，比敲诈恶劣得多。”
The camps are out of the way, but they sit along a major trading route that links Singapore and the Malaysian peninsula with the rest of mainland Southeast Asia. The route is a hub of legitimate trade as well as a transit point for illicit drugs, smuggled fuel and Malaysians seeking libertine pleasures in freewheeling Thailand.
这些营地位置偏僻，但坐落在一条重要的贸易线路沿线。该贸易通道将新加坡和马来半岛与东南亚大陆的其他地方连接起来，既是正当贸易的枢纽，也是非法毒品、走私燃料的中转站。想在无拘无束的泰国放纵一把的马来西亚人也会取道这里。
The Malaysian home minister, Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, said on Tuesday that investigators were examining whether forestry rangers in the densely wooded border region had colluded with human traffickers, according to Bernama, the Malaysian news agency. Some forestry officers have already been detained, he said.
据马来西亚国家新闻社(Bernama)报道，马来西亚内政部长艾哈迈德·扎希德·哈米迪(Ahmad Zahid Hamidi)周二表示，调查人员正在调查，树木茂密的这片边境地区的护林员，是否与蛇头同流合污。他表示，已有一些林业官员被捕。
Khalid Abu Bakar, the inspector general of the police in Malaysia, said Monday that the camps were believed to have been occupied since 2013 and that two of them were abandoned only two to three weeks ago, according to Bernama. He said the public disclosure of the suspected graves “proves that the Malaysian government is transparent and not hiding any information involving human trafficking issues.”
马新社报道，马来西亚警察总长哈立德·阿布·巴卡尔(Khalid Abu Bakar)周一表示，据信那些营地自2013年以来一直有人占据，其中两个是两到三星期之前才被弃用的。他说，公开披露可疑的坟墓，“表明马来西亚政府运作透明，未就人口走私问题隐瞒任何信息。”
But some advocates for Rohingya migrants said the abuses had been largely ignored.
但一些关注罗辛亚移民的倡导人士称，此前移民受虐待的问题在很大程度上被忽略了。
“We hear about families waiting for people to come here, who they never hear about again,” Zafar Ahmad bin Abdul Ghani, the president of the Myanmar Ethnic Rohingyas Human Rights Organization Malaysia, said in a telephone interview from Kuala Lumpur.
“我们会听说一些家庭的情况，他们一直在等着被偷运到这里的亲人回家，但却再也没听到他们的消息，”马来西亚缅甸罗辛亚族人权组织(Myanmar Ethnic Rohingyas Human Rights Organization Malaysia)负责人扎法尔·艾哈迈德·本·阿卜杜勒(Zafar Ahmad bin Abdul)在吉隆坡接受电话采访时说。
“Malaysia needs to investigate Rohingya who have died on the border with Thailand,” he added. “Maybe they also need to investigate the enforcement departments in Malaysia. Have they done enough to enforce and investigate? How can the traffickers cross the border in this area?”
“马来西亚需要对那些死在马泰边境上的罗辛亚人进行调查，”他接着说。“或许他们还需要调查马来西亚的执法部门。他们是否做出了充分的执法和调查工作？蛇头是怎么越过该地区的边境的？”
In an interview on Tuesday, Police Gen. Aek Angsananont, the deputy commissioner of Thailand’s police force, said the trafficking rings generally smuggled Bangladeshi and ethnic Rohingya migrants on boats into Thailand and brought them over land to Malaysia.
周二，泰国警察副总司令伊克·昂萨那农上将(Police Gen. Aek Angsananont)称，这些人口走私团伙一般会通过水路把孟加拉国和罗辛亚移民送往泰国，然后再通过陆路把他们带到马来西亚。
General Aek, who is leading the investigation in the smuggling rings, said the police have obtained arrest warrants for 77 suspects. Of those, 46 have been arrested, he said, and the rest are “on the run.”
领导针对蛇头团伙的调查的伊克说，警方已经获得了关于77名嫌犯的逮捕令。他说，其中46人已经被捕，其他人“在逃”。
He added that the crackdown had the support of the highest levels of Thailand’s military government and that the police were “clearing the mountains” along the Malaysian border of trafficking operations.
他表示，打击行动拥有泰国军政府最高层的支持，警方正在与马来西亚的边境地带针对人口走私活动“清扫山区”。
The crackdown began this month when a Rohingya man filed a complaint at a police station in southern Thailand, saying his nephew was being held for ransom. The police investigating the case discovered the mass graves on the Thai side of the border.
打击行动于本月开始。当时，一名罗辛亚男子在泰国南部的警察局报警称，他的侄子遭人绑架，嫌犯的目的是赎金。而调查此案的警察在边境线泰国一侧发现了这一大片坟地。
The authorities have not disclosed how the individuals found in the graves died, and some bodies were so badly composed that the cause of death may never be known. A doctor at Songklanagarind Hospital in southern Thailand said that medical workers were close to completing autopsies and that the police would soon reveal results.
官方尚未透露坟地里发现的那些死者的死因，有些尸体的腐烂程度特别严重，其死亡原因或许永远也不得而知。泰国南部颂格叻那甲林德医院(Songklanagarind Hospital)的一名医生称，医疗工作者即将完成验尸工作，警方很快就会公布结果。