Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican drug lord known as El Chapo, started out in business not long after turning 6, selling oranges and soft drinks. By 15, he said in an interview conducted in a jungle clearing by the actor and director Sean Penn for Rolling Stone magazine, he had begun to grow marijuana and poppies because there was no other way for his impoverished family to survive. 
墨西哥大毒枭、绰号“矮子”(El Chapo)的乔奎因·古兹曼·洛埃拉(Joaquín Guzmán Loera)刚6岁的时候就开始做生意，卖的是橙子和饮料。在一片丛林空地接受演员兼导演西恩·潘(Sean Penn)为《滚石》杂志(Rolling Stone)进行的采访时，他说，自己15岁时已经开始种植大麻和罂粟。这是因为他的家庭贫困，别无他法。
Now, unapologetically, he said: “I supply more heroin, methamphetamine, cocaine and marijuana than anybody else in the world. I have a fleet of submarines, airplanes, trucks and boats.” 
他毫无歉意地声称，现在，“我提供的海洛因、冰毒、可卡因和大麻比世界上任何人都多。我有一支由潜艇、飞机、卡车和舰船组成的队伍。”
Though his fortune, estimated at $1 billion, has come with a trail of blood, he does not consider himself a violent man. “Look, all I do is defend myself, nothing more,” he told Mr. Penn. “But do I start trouble? Never.”
尽管他那约10亿美元的财产血迹斑斑，他却并不认为自己是个暴徒。“其实，我只是自卫而已，”他告诉潘。“我会先挑起麻烦吗？绝对不会。”
The seven hours Mr. Guzmán spent with Mr. Penn, and the follow-up interviews by phone and video — which began in October while he was on the run — marked another surreal turn in his long-running effort to evade the Mexican and American authorities. Mr. Guzmán, one of the world’s most wanted fugitives, who had twice escaped jail, was captured in his home state of Sinaloa in northwest Mexico on Friday after a gun battle with the authorities.
古兹曼与潘一起度过的七小时，以及通过电话和视频进行的后续采访——始于去年10月他在逃的时候——标志着他长期试图逃脱墨西哥和美国当局追捕的又一个离奇回合。古兹曼是全世界最臭名昭著的通缉犯之一，曾两次越狱。上周五，他在与当局枪战后于墨西哥西北部的家乡锡那罗亚州被抓获。
Mr. Guzmán’s comments also mark a stark admission that he has operated a drug empire. Interviewed by a group of reporters in 1993 after a previous arrest, he denied that he engaged in drug dealing. “I’m a farmer,” he said, listing his produce as corn and beans. He denied that he used weapons or had significant funds.
古兹曼的言论也标志着他明确承认了他经营着毒品帝国。在1993年被捕后接受一群记者采访时，他否认自己从事毒品交易。“我务农，”他说，自称种植玉米、豆类等产品。他否认曾使用武器或拥有大量资金。
The interview with Mr. Penn, believed to be the first Mr. Guzmán has given in decades, was published online Saturday night, along with a video portion of the interview.
潘的采访据信是古兹曼几十年来的第一次。文章于周六晚上在网上公布，并附上了采访视频。
The interviews were held in a jungle clearing atop a mountain at an undisclosed location in Mexico. Surrounded by more than 100 cartel troops, and wearing a silk shirt and pressed black jeans, Mr. Guzmán sat down to dinner with Mr. Penn and Kate del Castillo, a Mexican actress who once played a drug kingpin in the soap opera “La Reina del Sur,” according to Rolling Stone. 
这些谈话在墨西哥一处秘密地点的一片山顶丛林空地中举行。《滚石》报道，在超过100名贩毒集团武装人员的包围下，古兹曼穿着丝绸衬衫和熨过的黑色牛仔裤，坐下来与潘和凯特·德尔卡斯蒂略(Kate del Castillo)共进晚餐。德尔卡斯蒂略是墨西哥演员，曾经在肥皂剧《南方女王》(La Reina del Sur)中演过毒枭。
Even though Mexican troops attacked his hide-out in the days after the meeting, necessitating a narrow escape, Mr. Guzmán continued the interview by BlackBerry Messenger and in a video delivered by courier to the pair later. 
墨西哥军队在这次碰面的几天后攻击了古兹曼的藏身地。九死一生的古兹曼仍然通过黑莓的即时通讯工具BBM接受采访，后来还用信使给潘和德尔卡斯蒂略送去了一则视频。
The story provides new details on his dramatic escape from prison last summer, when he disappeared through a hole in his shower into a mile-long tunnel that some engineers estimated took more than a year and at least $1 million to build. The engineers, Mr. Penn wrote, had been flown to Germany for specialized training. A motorcycle on rails inside the tunnel had been modified to run in the low-oxygen environment, deep underground. 
《滚石》的文章为古兹曼去年夏天的惊人越狱提供了新细节。当时，他消失在淋浴区的一个洞中，通过一英里的隧道出逃。一些工程师估计，隧道花了一年多的时间挖掘，花费至少为100万美元。潘写道，建隧道的工程师为此坐飞机到德国进行了专门培训。隧道内部的轨道摩托车经过改装，可以在地下深层的低氧环境中运行。
Mr. Penn’s account is likely to deepen the concern among the Mexican authorities already embarrassed by Mr. Guzmán’s multiple escapes, the months required to find him again and his status for some as something of a folk hero. Mr. Penn describes being waved through a military road checkpoint on his way to meet Mr. Guzmán, which Mr. Penn suggested was because the soldiers recognized Mr. Guzmán’s son. Mr. Penn said he was also told, during a leg of the journey taken in a small plane equipped with a scrambling device for ground radar only, that the cartel was informed by an insider when the military deployed a high-altitude surveillance plane that might have spotted their movements. 
由于古兹曼多次逃脱，时隔多个月才再次被捕，又有人视他为民间英雄，墨西哥当局已是处境难堪，潘的说法很可能会进一步加深该国政府官员的担忧。潘描述，在前去见古兹曼途中，他们在一处军事关卡被挥手放行，他猜测可能是因为军人认出了古兹曼的儿子。潘说，在某段乘坐备有地面雷达干扰装置的小型飞机的旅途中，他被告知集团获内部人员告密，军方部署了一架高空侦察机，可能已经注意到他们的行动。
In the end, the Mexican authorities said Friday night that Mr. Guzmán had been caught partly because he had been planning a movie about his life, and had contacted actors and producers, which had helped the authorities to track him down. Mr. Penn’s story says Mr. Guzmán, inundated with Hollywood offers while in prison, had indeed elected to make his own movie. Ms. del Castillo, whom he contacted through his lawyer after she posted supportive messages on Twitter, was the only person he trusted to shepherd the project, the story says. Mr. Penn heard about the connection with Ms. del Castillo through a mutual acquaintance, and asked if he might do an interview. 
最后，墨西哥当局于周五夜间表示，之所以能抓获古兹曼，部分是因为他正在筹拍一部有关自己生平电影，并联络了多名演员和制片人，从而帮助当局追查到了他的下落。潘的文章称，古兹曼在狱中收到大量的好莱坞邀约，实际上选择了要自己拍摄这部电影。文中称，德尔卡斯蒂略在Twitter上发表支持言论后，古兹曼透过律师与她接触，认定她是唯一一个他信任让其牵头进行电影项目的人。潘透过一名共同熟人得知德尔卡斯蒂略与古兹曼的关系，并向其询问能否进行采访。
It is not clear whether the contacts described in the story are the ones that led to Mr. Guzmán’s arrest. Mr. Penn wrote that he had gone to great lengths to maintain security while arranging to meet Mr. Guzmán. He described labeling cheap “burner” phones, “one per contact, one per day, destroy, burn, buy, balancing levels of encryption, mirroring through Blackphones, anonymous email addresses, unsent messages accessed in draft form.” Nevertheless, he wrote, “There is no question in my mind but that DEA and the Mexican government are tracking our movements,” referring to the United States Drug Enforcement Administration. A Mexican government official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe confidential matters, said the authorities were aware of the meeting with Mr. Penn.
目前没有人知道是不是这篇文章里提到的接触导致了古兹曼被捕。潘写道，在安排与古兹曼会面时，自己竭尽全力采取措施保证安全。他描述了自己给廉价的“即抛型”手机做标记，“每次联络用一个，每天用一个，销毁、抛弃、购买，权衡加密级别，用Blackphone、匿名的电邮地址和未发送的邮件草稿来展开镜像联络。”尽管如此，他写道，“我脑中明确无误地知道，DEA和墨西哥政府一定在追踪我们的一举一动。”DEA是美国禁毒署(United States Drug Enforcement Administration)的缩写。一名因事项保密而不愿具名的墨西哥政府官员称，当局知晓古兹曼与潘的会面。
Mr. Penn and Mr. Guzmán spoke for seven hours, the story reports, at a compound amid dense jungle. Mr. Guzmán does not speak English, and the interview was conducted in Spanish through translators.
文中称，潘与古兹曼在茂密丛林中的一处建筑里谈了七个小时。古兹曼不懂英语，因此采访透过译员以西班牙语进行。
It was not immediately clear what the ethical and legal considerations of the article might be. In a disclosure that ran with the story, Rolling Stone said it had changed some names and withheld some locations. An understanding was reached with Mr. Guzmán, it said, that the story would be submitted for his approval, but he did not request any changes. The magazine declined to comment further Saturday.
这篇文章可能涉及的道德和法律问题，目前仍是未知数。在与文章一同刊登的公开声明中，《滚石》杂志称其改变了部分名称并隐瞒了部分地点。它说，杂志与古兹曼达成了谅解，文章会交予他过目批准，但他并没有要求作出任何改动。周六的时候，《滚石》拒绝进一步置评。
A Mexican official said late Saturday that all actors and producers who met with Mr. Guzman, which includes Mr. Penn, were under investigation. But it remained unclear whether the circumstances of the meeting were the subject of inquiry or the individuals themselves would face scrutiny from the Mexican government.
一名墨西哥官员在周六晚间表示，所有与古兹曼会面的演员及制片人都在接受调查，其中包括了潘。但目前尚不清楚，调查的内容是会面的具体情况，还是他们个人将面对墨西哥政府的严查。
The topics of conversation turned in unexpected directions. At one stage, Mr. Penn brought up Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate; there were some reports that Mr. Guzmán had put a $100 million bounty on Mr. Trump after he made comments offensive to Mexicans. “Ah! Mi amigo!” Mr. Guzmán responded. 
古兹曼与潘交流的话题有一些出人意料之处。潘一度提及共和党总统候选人唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)；有报道称，特朗普对墨西哥人口出恶言之后，古兹曼对他悬赏了1亿美元。“得了吧！我的朋友！”古兹曼如此回应。
He asked Mr. Penn whether people in the United States were interested in him and laughed when Mr. Penn told him that the Fusion channel was repeating a documentary on him, “Chasing El Chapo.”  
他问潘，美国民众是否对自己感兴趣。当潘告诉他，Fushion频道在重新制作关于他的纪录片《追捕“矮子”》(Chasing El Chapo)时，古兹曼笑了起来。
In a wider-ranging interview, for which Mr. Penn submitted questions that were put to Mr. Guzmán on video by one of his associates, he detailed his childhood and said he had tried drugs during his life but had never been an addict and had not touched them for 20 years. He said that he was happy to be free, and that the pressure of evading the authorities was normal for him. 
在进一步的采访中，潘事先提交了一些问题，由古兹曼的一名熟人提问并拍摄成视频。古兹曼在视频中详细回忆了自己的童年，透露自己曾尝试过毒品，但从未上瘾，而且20年没有再碰过。他表示很高兴重获自由，而躲避当局的压力对他而言再正常不过。
Pushed on the morality of his business, he said it was a reality “that drugs destroy. Unfortunately, as I said, where I grew up there was no other way and there still isn’t a way to survive, no way to work in our economy to be able to make a living.” If he disappeared, he said, it would make no difference to the drug business. 
当被逼问自己从事的买卖有何道德问题时，他说“毒品毁人”的确是事实，但“不幸的是，就像我说过的那样，我长大的地方别无选择，今天依然如此，无法在我们的经济中找到谋生手段。”就算自己消失了，他说，毒品生意也不会受到任何影响。
Asked about the violence attached to his work, he said in part it happened “because already some people already grow up with problems, and there is some envy and they have information against someone else. That is what creates violence.”
当被问到与他的毒品事业有关的暴力行为时，他表示之所以发生暴力，部分“是因为本来有些人本来就麻烦缠身，心生嫉妒，又有了对付别人的把柄。结果就产生了暴力。”