DONETSK, Ukraine — Facing threats of forcible eviction by the Ukrainian government, pro-Russian demonstrators who have seized the 11-story government headquarters in Donetsk, eastern Ukraine’s second-biggest city, suffered a further blow Wednesday when local political barons who share their deep dislike of Ukraine’s new government demanded that they give up and hand over any weapons.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——在乌克兰东部第二大城市顿涅茨克，亲俄抗议者占据了11层高的政府总部大楼，他们不仅面临着被乌克兰政府强行驱逐的威胁，而且本周三又遭受了进一步打击：当地政要敦促他们放弃占领活动，交出所有武器。这些政要跟他们一样，对乌克兰新政府深为反感。
The protesters, however, vowed to stand firm, fortifying barricades erected around the Donetsk regional administration building as a thinning crowd of several hundred supporters chanted “Russia, Russia” and cheered calls for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to protect them.
不过这些抗议者发誓要坚守阵地，并加固了顿涅茨克地区行政大楼周边的路障，与此同时，在逐渐变得稀疏的支持者人群中，数百人反复高喊“俄罗斯、俄罗斯”，呼吁俄罗斯总统普京来保护他们。
In Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said at a news conference that demonstrators who have seized buildings in Donetsk and at least two other eastern cities had two options — “political negotiations and force.” He said the crisis would be resolved one way or the other within 48 hours.
在乌克兰首都基辅，内政部长阿尔森·阿瓦科夫(Arsen Avakov)通过新闻发布会表示，在顿涅茨克以及至少两个其他东部城市占据建筑物的人有两个选择——“政治谈判和武力”。他说，无论采取哪种方式，这场危机都将在48小时内得到解决。
Interior Ministry troops have already expelled protesters from a government block in Kharkiv, an industrial city north of Donetsk, while a standoff at the headquarters of the state security service in nearby Luhansk ended peacefully Wednesday, when several dozen people left the building of their own accord. The authorities had claimed earlier that 60 people had been taken hostage inside, but this was not the case, according to local journalists.
本周三，在顿涅茨克以北的工业城市哈尔科夫，内政部的部队将抗议者驱逐出了一栋政府大楼，而附近卢甘斯克的州安全部门总部的僵持事件则以和平方式结束，数十人自行离开了那栋大楼。当局较早之前曾声称，楼里有60人被劫为人质，但当地记者表示事实并非如此。
The main challenge now to the government in Kiev, which took power after President Viktor F. Yanukovych fled in February, is Donetsk, his Russian-speaking hometown and long a bastion of pro-Russia sentiment.
基辅政府是在乌克兰前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)今年2月逃离那里之后上台的，它眼下面临的主要挑战就来自亚努科维奇的家乡顿涅茨克，该地讲俄语，长期以来都是重要的亲俄堡垒。
“We will stand to the end,” a protest leader assured a crowd outside the occupied regional administration building, which has become the headquarters of the Donetsk People’s Republic, a nominally independent but universally unrecognized state declared on Monday, and now flies the Russian instead of Ukrainian flag. “Victory will be ours. Russia is with us.”
“我们将坚守到底，”抗议活动的一位领导者在建筑物外向聚集的人群保证；这座被占领的地区行政大楼已成为“顿涅茨克人民共和国”的总部，现在飘扬着俄罗斯国旗，而不是乌克兰国旗。该共和国本周一宣布成立，但只是在名义上存在，却并未获得普遍承认。“胜利属于我们。俄罗斯与我们同在。”
A daylong series of defiant speeches was punctuated by jittery warnings of an imminent attack and pleas for Donetsk residents to bring bags of sugar, gasoline and other provisions to the protesters. What began as a single ring of barricades made of tires, barbed wire and bags of sand and rocks expanded Wednesday to include a second set of fortifications.
抗议者在一整天中发表了一系列挑衅性的演讲，其间夹杂着显露出紧张不安情绪的“攻击即将到来”的警告，以及恳请顿涅茨克居民给抗议者运送袋装食用糖、汽油和其他物资的呼吁。路障最开始只是一圈轮胎、铁丝网，及沙袋和石块，在本周三，第二道防御工事也出现了。
But there was little sign that the protesters — whom Kiev condemns as reckless separatists controlled and financed by Russia, along with die-hard supporters of Mr. Yanukovych — had expanded their support beyond a narrow fringe of fervently pro-Russian political activists and a core base of impoverished pensioners, jobless coal miners and other angry victims of Ukraine’s dysfunctional economy.
但几乎没有迹象表明，这些抗议者——基辅谴责他们是鲁莽的、受到俄罗斯的控制和资助的分裂主义者，还有亚努科维奇的铁杆支持者——获得了更加普遍的支持，他们的支持者除了为数不多的狂热亲俄政治活动人士之外，主要是贫困的养老金领取者、失业的煤矿工人，以及乌克兰糟糕经济的其他那些满怀愤懑的受害者。
Even the Party of Regions, Mr. Yanukovych’s former governing party, declined to support the pro-Russian protest movement and its demands for a referendum on the status of the east, a move that could pave the way for secession, as happened in Crimea, which Russia annexed last month. Instead, local party barons held a news conference to denounce the seizure of official buildings and to call on protesters to quickly end their occupation and accept that Donetsk is part of Ukraine.
就连亚努科维奇之前的执政党地区党(Party of Regions)也拒绝支持亲俄抗议运动及其对东部地区地位进行全民公投的要求。公投可能会为分裂国家铺平道路，就像在克里米亚发生的情况一样。而俄罗斯已于上月吞并了克里米亚。当地政要召开了新闻发布会，谴责抗议者占领官方建筑物，并呼吁他们尽快结束占领活动，承认顿涅茨克是乌克兰的一部分。
“These people pose a bigger and bigger threat to the majority of the population,” said Nikolai Levchenko, head of the Donetsk branch of the Party of Regions and a member of Parliament in Kiev. He said he sympathized with some of the protesters’ concerns, particularly their distress with a new government dominated by Ukrainian speakers from the west, but pleaded with them to leave occupied buildings and pursue their objectives through legal means.
“这些人会给大多数人带来越来越大的威胁，”尼古拉·莱夫申科(Nikolai Levchenko)说。他是地区党顿涅茨克分部的负责人，也是基辅国会的一名成员。他说自己同情一些抗议者的诉求，尤其是新政府由说乌克兰语的西部人所主导给他们带来的苦恼，但他恳求他们离开被占领的建筑物，转而通过法律手段来达成目标。
Mr. Levchenko blamed the rash of occupations on the example set by pro-European demonstrators who seized buildings in Kiev and western Ukraine during their three-month-long campaign to topple Mr. Yanukovych. Protesters in Donetsk, he said, “have become moral hostages to all the things that happened in the west of Ukraine and in Kiev.”
莱夫申科把这些鲁莽的占领行动归咎于之前的先例：在长达三个月的、推翻亚努科维奇的运动中，亲欧洲的示威者们在基辅和乌克兰西部占领了建筑物。他说，顿涅茨克抗议者“已经成为乌克兰西部和基辅发生的事情的道德人质”。
Andrei Shishatsky, another erstwhile ally of Mr. Yanukovych who was removed as governor of Donetsk after the February revolution in Kiev, also urged protesters occupying his former office block to “leave quickly,” and emphasized that the region must remain “part of a unified and independent Ukraine.”
亚努科维奇的另一位昔日盟友安德烈·希沙茨基(Andrei Shishatsky)曾是顿涅茨克州州长，今年2月基辅发生革命后被罢免，他也呼吁那些占据了他从前的办公大楼的抗议者“赶紧离开”，并强调该地区必须继续作为“统一、独立的乌克兰的一部分”。