Li Ka-shing, one of the world’s richest men, is known in his adopted hometown and business hub of Hong Kong as “Superman,” for his financial acumen.
在他的第二故乡、商业中心香港，世界富豪李嘉诚因其敏锐的金融头脑而被称为“超人”。
Is Superman taking off from China and headed for – Europe?
“超人”是不是要离开中国、前往欧洲了呢？
The intriguing question is swirling as reports pile up of sales, attempted sales or planned sales of companies, buildings and other assets in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland that are owned by the conglomerates he founded and controls, Hutchison Whampoa and Cheung Kong Holdings.
随着关于李嘉诚出售、试图出售或者计划出售他在香港和中国大陆的公司、楼房和其他资产的报道大量涌现，这个问题一直在引发人们的极大好奇。这些资产属于他所建立和控制的和记黄埔(Hutchison Whampoa)和长江实业有限公司(Cheung Kong Holdings)所有。
What is surprising to many is that these sales are being matched by new investments in debt-struck Europe: $18 billion worth over the last three years, according to Week in China, a Hong Kong-based digital magazine distributed to HSBC clients.
而据位于香港专门派发给汇丰银行(HSBC)客户的电子杂志《中国一周》(Week in China)报道，令很多人惊讶的是，在出售中国资产的同时，过去三年，李嘉诚向负债累累的欧洲进行了价值180亿美元的新投资。
“This year alone Hutchison has agreed or closed five deals worth more than $4 billion — the majority in infrastructure investments ranging from water-treatment and gas distribution businesses in the United Kingdom to telecommunications assets throughout Europe,” Week in China reported in late August.
8月下旬，《中国一周》报道称，“只今年一年，和记黄埔谈成、或已经完成的总价值过40亿美元的交易就有五项——其中多数是对基础设施的投资，包括英国的水处理和天然气配送，以及遍布全欧洲的电信资产。”
Last year, Mr. Li explained his rationale for investing in Europe, and it was a rare vote of confidence for the struggling continent. “We understand the situation in Europe and I believe the businesses will have growth momentum in five years’ time,” the magazine quoted him as saying.
去年，李嘉诚解释了他在欧洲投资的理由，很少有人对这片处境艰难的大陆表现出如此的信心。“我们明白欧洲所处的状况，但我认为在五年时间内，这里的企业会具备上升的动力，”该杂志引用李嘉诚的话说。
Will Mr. Li, 85, whose words and deeds are gold to many Chinese, be right here too? He reportedly is the world’s richest East Asian and the eighth richest overall, according to Forbes magazine’s billionaires list, or the 17th, according to the Bloomberg news agency’s list. He is said to be worth around $30 billion.
对很多中国人来说，85岁的李嘉诚的所言所行是黄金法则，那么这次他做出了正确选择吗？根据福布斯(Forbes)杂志的亿万富翁排名，李嘉诚是最富有的东亚人，全球第八大富豪，而根据彭博新闻社(Bloomberg)的排名，李嘉诚的财富在全球排名第十七位。据称他的身家约为300亿美元。
Either way, “Li Ka-shing’s serial divestments and sales are making people guess,” The Beijing News said on Tuesday, reporting that last week his companies agreed on the sale of a building in Shanghai, the Oriental Financial Center, for 7 billion renminbi, or $1.16 million. (The report is in Chinese, but Bloomberg carried an item on the sale in English.)
不管怎样，“李嘉诚陆续撤资和出售资产正在引发猜测，”《新京报》周二报道称。在这篇报道中还提到，李嘉诚的公司上周同意以70亿元人民币的价格出售位于上海的东方汇经中心。（该报道为中文报道，不过彭博发表了一篇关于此次交易的英文报道。）
“This is the third such major asset sale in three months in Hong Kong and China,” The Beijing News wrote, adding the figures were “incomplete.”
“该次资产出售，是李嘉诚近三个月来对内地及在港资产完成的第三次大规模抛售，”《新京报》写道，并表示这些是“不完全”的统计。
It cited “industry insiders” as saying that the sales show Mr. Li is “bearish about the property market in mainland China,” amid uncertainty about the scale of a property bubble there, and is “divesting from Hong Kong.”
该报道引用“业界”人士的话称，在人们不确定大陆房地产泡沫规模到底有多大之际，李嘉诚“看空内地楼市”并“撤资香港”。
The recent property sales aren’t all. Hutchison Whampoa also plans to sell some or all of A.S. Watson, a global chain of more than 11,000 personal care stores, The South China Morning Post reported on Tuesday. (It includes brands such as Rossmann in Germany, Superdrug in Britain and the Watson’s chain in China.) Hutchison Whampoa hopes to earn up to 98 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $12.6 billion, with a stock market flotation, making it the biggest I.P.O. in Asia since 2010, the Post said.
而最近的房地产抛售还不是李嘉诚的全部动作。和记黄埔还计划出售屈臣氏集团(A.S. Watson)部分或全部业务，屈臣氏是全球连锁店，有超过1.1万家个人护理店，《南华早报》(South China Morning Post)周二报道称。（屈臣氏集团旗下品牌包括德国的Rossmann、英国的Superdrug以及中国的屈臣氏连锁店。）《南华早报》称，和记黄埔希望通过屈臣氏集团上市筹得高达126亿美元资金，它的上市有望成为自2010年以来亚洲最大的一次IPO。
“If the company decides to list a Watson spin-off in Europe, it could become the largest regional I.P.O. since the $17.3 billion sale of Enel, Italy’s largest utility, in 1999,” the Post said. The reports come shortly after a recent, and withdrawn, bid by Mr. Li’s companies to sell the supermarket chain ParknShop, probably Hong Kong’s best-known grocery store.
《南华早报》称，“如果公司决定让屈臣氏的一个分公司在欧洲上市，它将成为自1999年意大利最大的公共事业公司意大利国家电力公司(Enel)上市筹资173亿美元以来，欧洲进行的最大规模的地区性IPO。”而最近，就在报道发表不久前，李嘉诚的公司招标出售旗下连锁的百佳超市，又在后来暂停这一出售。百佳超市可能是香港最为知名的食品杂货商店。
The media-shy Mr. Li denied in September, when he dropped by a media lunch “by surprise,” that he was divesting from Hong Kong, China Daily reported. (The host of the lunch was Chiu Kwok-hung, executive director of Cheung Kong Holdings, the report said.)
《中国日报》报道称，通常不愿接受媒体采访的李嘉诚在9月“出其不意”地现身一场媒体午餐会，席间，他否认自己正从香港撤资。（该报道称，举办午餐会的是长江实业的执行董事赵国雄。）
“I love Hong Kong. Cheung Kong and Hutchison Whampoa will absolutely not relocate and I believe they will stand strong in Hong Kong for many years to come,” China Daily quoted Mr. Li as saying.
“我爱香港。长江、和记一定不会迁册，好久好久的将来都会在香港，”《中国日报》引用李嘉诚的话称。
But he also made some “pretty grave predictions” about Hong Kong’s position as Asia’s financial center, Week in China wrote of the event. A new free-trade zone in Shanghai will help Shanghai to catch up and “even surpass” Hong Kong more quickly than most people imagine, the magazine quoted him as saying.
但《中国一周》报道该事件时称，李嘉诚也对香港作为亚洲金融中心的前景做出了一些比较黯淡的预测。上海新建的自贸区将帮助上海赶上“甚至超过”香港，速度会以比大多人想象的要快，《中国一周》引用李嘉诚的话写道。
It “will have a big impact on Hong Kong,” said Mr. Li. “It has different aspects, including financial services. When the yuan becomes fully convertible, it will benefit the development of Shanghai.” For now, no one is sure exactly what the free-trade zone, formally opened at the end of September, will offer, but many are watching with interest.
这将对“香港产生巨大影响”，李嘉诚说。“它囊括了很多方面，其中就包括金融服务。当人民币可以完全自由兑换时，它将惠及上海的发展。”目前来看，没人确切知道9月底正式开放的自贸区到底能带来什么，但很多人都在好奇地观望。
Why invest in Europe, where few are optimistic? “Li has always been an asset trader and it looks like a good time to sell,” Week in China wrote.
为什么要向很少有人看好的欧洲投资呢？“李嘉诚从来是一个资产交易者，而现在看上去是抛售的好时机，”《中国一周》写道。
“On a relative value basis, Hong Kong appears expensive while many assets in the European Union are attractively priced, owing to depressed economic conditions,” it wrote.
“从相对价值而言，在香港的资产看上去很贵，而许多在欧盟国家的资产价格十分诱人，这跟那里萧条的经济状况有关，”该文章写道。
Mr. Li’s reputation — and wealth — were built following the advice often attributed to Baron Rothschild, to buy when there’s blood in the streets. That’s pretty much what he did in Hong Kong in the 1960s as the political turmoil and violence of the Cultural Revolution on the Chinese mainland spilled over into the British colony, and he transformed himself from a successful plastic flower manufacturer into a property developer. Today he owns major global assets in telecommunications, ports and other areas.
李嘉诚的声誉及其财富来自他采纳的一个建议，即在市场遇冷时买入，通常认为给出这个建议的是罗斯柴尔德男爵(Baron Rothschild)。20世纪60年代，中国大陆文化大革命所引发的政治动乱和暴力波及到当时还是英国殖民地的香港时，李嘉诚差不多就是这么做的，藉此从一名成功的塑料花生产商转型成为一名房地产开发商。如今在全球范围内，他在电信、港口等很多领域都拥有巨额资产。
It’s all got people talking.
而这些都引发了人们的谈论。