Jun Aoki is not your average real estate developer.
青木纯(Jun Aoki)可不是普通的地产开发商。
On his company’s website, the photograph that accompanies his profile shows his eyes scrunched up and his mouth open in a laugh. He is wearing a burgundy scarf and a navy sweater with a red-stripe accent rather than the traditional dark suit and white shirt of the Japanese businessman.
在他公司的网站上，他的个人资料页面(http://www.maison-aoki.jp/owner.html)里附带了一张照片。照片上的他开口大笑，眼睛眯成了一条缝，脖子上围着暗红色的围巾，身上穿着一件饰有红色条纹的海军蓝毛衣，而不像传统日本商人那样，身穿深色西装和白色衬衫。
“I didn’t like renting,” he wrote in the website’s introduction. “Renting is so strict that it isn’t fun. There is no blank canvas for expressing one’s own personality.”
“我不喜欢租房子，”他在网站的介绍里写道，“租房太刻板了，没有趣味可言。没有空白的画布来表达自己的个性。”
It was this kind of frustration that led Mr. Aoki, now 39, to take over his father’s company, Maison Aoki, in 2011 and to build one of Tokyo’s most unusual rental properties, Aomame House. Construction began in spring 2013, and it officially opened to residents in March 2014.
正是这种挫败感，导致现年39岁的青木在2011年接管了父亲的公司Maison Aoki（メゾン青樹），而后又建造了全东京最非同寻常的出租房产之一——青豆公寓（青豆ハウス，Aoname House）。该项目于2013年春季开始施工，2014年3月正式开放入住。
Passersby immediately notice Aomame House, which is located in a quiet residential neighborhood in western Tokyo, a 30-minute subway ride from the buzz of the city center. First they see a large community garden, which is owned by the city, and the development’s own communal patio space. Behind is the eight-unit development itself, its four decorative columns rising and intertwining like magic beanstalks. (In fact, Mr. Aoki said he took inspiration for the design from beanstalks, and aomame means blue bean in Japanese.)
行人一眼就能注意到青豆公寓。它位于东京城西的一处安静的居民区内，距离繁华的市中心有30分钟地铁车程。路过此处时，首先映入眼帘的是一大片市属的社区花园，以及青豆公寓自建的公共庭院空间。这背后，就是包含八套单元的青豆公寓了。它那四根盘旋上升的装饰立柱，就像魔法豆茎一样（事实上​​，青木说，他的设计灵感正是来自豆茎，而aoname在日语中的意思就是“青豆”）。
The earthquake and tsunami that devastated parts of Japan in 2011 prompted the project.
2011年的地震和海啸摧毁了日本的部分地区。这场灾难促使青木萌生了修建青豆公寓的想法。
“After the earthquake, I started thinking about how it can be difficult to live alone,” Mr. Aoki said. “It’s more fun and convenient to live together with others. You can help each other out, and you enjoy life more that way.”
“地震发生后，我开始思考独自生活的难处，”青木说，“和别人同住会更有意思，也更方便。这样彼此多一个照应，可以更好地享受生活。”
He decided that he wanted to build the modern version of a row-house neighborhood, and to do it in Japanese cypress and cedar, rather than the more common concrete, so he could change the internal layout in the future without much difficulty.
他决定想要打造一个现代版的联排别墅社区，而且建材要选用日本桧木和雪松，而不是更常见的混凝土，这样将来要改变内部布局时，就不会有太大的困难。
Working with Yoshihiko Oshima, an architect with the firm Blue Studio, he eventually settled on a plan that featured a central staircase leading up from the ground floor to a plaza-style space. The apartment entrances open onto this space, so residents see one another come and go, often crossing paths when leaving for work in the morning and returning home in the evening. It has even become a popular hangout when the weather is nice.
他与Blue Studio的建筑师大岛芳彦(Yoshihiko Oshima)携手合作，最终敲定了一个方案，其特点是有一道中央楼梯，从地面层通往一片广场式空间。所有公寓的入口也都通向这片空间，这样一来，居民们彼此就能看到对方进出家门，在早上上班和晚上回家时，往往可以打个照面。这片空间甚至还成了居民们在天气晴朗的时候喜欢小聚的地方。
Downstairs is another communal space. Built into the patio is a long table with stools and, before moving into the building, the residents all helped to build an outdoor brick pizza oven, which they use for parties. They also planted tomatoes, herbs, blueberry bushes and other edible and ornamental plants in the space along the patio’s perimeter. They work together to care for the plants, which do not belong to any one person or family.
楼下还有一处公共空间。平台上有一张固定的长桌，还带一些凳子。所有居民在搬入大楼前，都参与搭建了一座室外砖砌披萨烤箱，供他们在派对上使用。他们还在平台四周的空间，种植了西红柿、香草、蓝莓灌木和其他可食用又具观赏性的植物。这些植物由大家共同照料，不属于任何个人或家庭私有。
“I wanted to cultivate a community,” Mr. Aoki said, adding that he had been motivated by the work of Le Corbusier. “This is the smallest-sized community, but if the residents enjoy it, their happiness will spread and the entire town will improve.”
青木说，“我想构建出一个社区，”他还补充道，勒·柯布西耶(Le Corbusier)的作品激发了他的灵感。“这是规模最小的社区，但如果居民们乐在其中，他们的幸福感就会蔓延开来，整个城镇都会因此变得更美好。”
Each one-bedroom apartment totals about 60 square meters, or 646 square feet, spread across three floors, and the design is such that the apartments are interlocking, rather than stacks or blocks of space. For example, one family’s kitchen may be directly below another’s bedroom. The units’ large windows look out onto the central staircase and the building’s ground-level entrance. Each unit also has two balconies.
每套一居室公寓的总面积在60平方米左右，约合646平方英尺，分布在三个楼层。在设计上，各单元之间交叉排布，而非将空间堆叠在一起。例如，一户居民的厨房可能位于另一户居民卧室的正下方。从各单元的窗口都可看到中央楼梯和地面层的大楼入口。每个单元还带两座阳台。
Monthly rents range from 159,000 to 174,000 yen, or about $1,350 to $1,480, rates considered quite reasonable by Tokyo standards.
这里每月的房租是15.9到17.4万日元（约合人民币8329到9115元），约合1350到1480美元。按照东京的标准，这个价位在人们看来是非常合理的。
“When we first moved in, I would feel embarrassed because our neighbors could see into our apartment, so I was always closing the curtains,” said Kenichi Okada, 34, who lives in Aomame House with his partner, Kunie Hiyamizu, 32. “But now that I know everyone I don’t mind if they see me in my pajamas.”
“刚搬进来那阵，我总会觉得尴尬，因为邻居可以看到我们公寓里面，所以我总会拉上窗帘，”34岁的冈田健一(Kenichi Okada)说，他与自己的伴侣、32岁的冷水久仁江(Kunie Hiyamizu)一起住在青豆公寓里，“但现在我和大家都很熟了，我不介意他们看到我穿睡衣的样子。”
Mr. Okada and Ms. Hiyamizu run a business together, specializing in design and photography, and before finding Aomame House — which is now both their home and their office — they had been looking for a studio space that they could share with others.
冈田和冷水一起经营着一份事业，专门从事设计和摄影工作。青豆公寓现在已经既是他们的家，又是办公室了。而在此之前，他们一直在找一处可以与人合租的工作室空间。
“We didn’t want to share a house, but we wanted a shared space,” Mr. Okada said. “We wanted to have a connection with the people around us.”
“我们不想同人合住，但是想跟别人共用空间，”冈田说，“我们想跟周围的人建立联系。”
Mr. Aoki, who moved into the development himself with his family, has organized events to cultivate such connections. Before construction started, he held a public festival at the site to mark its groundbreaking, with food, games and other activities.
青木同家人也一道搬进了青豆公寓居住，并且举办了多项活动，来培养和增进这样的社区联系。在开始施工之前，他在现场举办了一场盛大的公共庆典，来庆祝大楼破土动工，用美食、游戏和其他活动招待了到场嘉宾。
Once construction began and all the apartments had been spoken for, he had another event for the future residents to choose the finishings for their apartments. They even painted the walls and put up wallpaper together, a concept Mr. Aoki also used at one of his other buildings, Royal Annex, which opened in 2008. Finally, just as residents were beginning to move in, they organized a market, selling food and handicrafts to 350 visitors.
等到施工开始、且所有公寓都确定了租户后，他又举办了一场活动，让未来的住户为自己的公寓挑选室内装修方案。他们甚至一起给墙壁刷了漆，贴了墙纸。青木也曾将这个创意用到另一个项目Royal Annex上，该项目已于2008年开放。最后，等居民们开始搬进新家时，他们发起了一场市集，将美食和工艺品卖给350名访客。
“I always wanted this kind of life but I wasn’t able to have it before,” said Yukie Haguri, 36, another resident. “I have become even better friends with my neighbors than I expected to. It’s a big positive in my life.”
“我一直想过这样的生活，但是一直没能如愿，”另一位青豆居民、36岁的叶栗雪绘(Yukie Haguri)说，“我和邻居们的友谊甚至比我预想中的还要好。这是我人生的一大收获。”