The operator of the stricken Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant said Tuesday that it would ask regulators to allow it to restart two reactors at a separate site in eastern Japan, even as problems with the company’s cleanup in Fukushima continue to multiply.
遭到重创的福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)的运营商在周二称，他们将请求监管者允许其在日本东部的另一处核电站重启两座反应堆。与此同时，该公司在福岛清污时继续遭遇重重困难。
The request by the operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, is expected to be among a flurry of such appeals from utilities seeking to restart reactors now that the government has approved tougher safety guidelines. The government hopes the regulations will help it overcome deep public concerns about nuclear power and government oversight, allowing it to get additional plants back online more than two years after the Fukushima crisis.
据预测，发出的这种请求的将不只是运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电），其他力图重启反应堆的电力公司也将提出大量类似申请，因为政府已通过了更严格的安全指导方针。政府希望新规定能有助于平抚公众对核能和政府监管的深切忧虑，让政府能在福岛危机发生两年多后重启更多核电站。
The requests are expected to revive a debate in Japan about the future of nuclear power that has been relatively quiet for months as regulators have worked on the new rules. Since the disaster at the Fukushima plant in 2011, only two reactors have been allowed to resume operations in an effort to head off electricity shortages, but the government and supporters of nuclear power say it is critical to the economy that Japan return to relatively cheap nuclear power rather than relying on costly natural gas and coal imports.
这些请求预计会在日本再次引发一场有关核能未来的讨论，该讨论在最近几个月相对缓和，因为监管者一直忙于出台新规定。自福岛核电站在2011年遭受灾难以来，只有两座反应堆为克服电力短缺而获准重新运行，但政府和核能支持者都认为，重启相对廉价的核能对日本至关重要，该国不能依赖昂贵的进口天然气和煤炭。
The Tokyo Electric Power Company, known as Tepco, said it would soon apply to restart two of the seven reactors at its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant, the world’s biggest nuclear power station by capacity. That plant, about 140 miles northeast of Tokyo, was not affected by the earthquake and tsunami that wreaked havoc at Fukushima Daiichi, but Kashiwazaki-Kariwa does sit atop fault lines and was damaged in a 2007 quake caused by another fault.
东电表示，公司会很快申请重启其位于柏崎刈羽核电站(Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant)的两座反应堆，该核电站共有七座反应堆，是世界上装机容量最大的核电站。它位于东京东北方向约140英里（约合220公里）处，没有受到给福岛第一核电站带来巨大损失的地震和海啸的影响，但该核电站也位于几条断层线之上，并在2007年由一条断层线引发的地震中受损。
The company says it needs to get the reactors back online to stem the losses it has suffered since the reactor meltdowns at Fukushima.
东电表示，公司需要通过重启这些反应堆来弥补福岛反应堆熔毁以来的损失。
It is unclear if Tepco will face more scrutiny than other utilities; some experts have warned that Tepco is overwhelmed by the difficult cleanup at Fukushima. Recent leaks of contaminated water revealed major flaws in the company’s storage of the tons of radioactive water that is generated daily as groundwater flows into damaged reactor buildings, adding to a string of mishaps.
尚不清楚东电是否会比其他公司面临更多监管；一些专家警告，东电正被福岛的艰难清污工程所困。最近的污水泄露表明，该公司在储存大量放射性水方面存在巨大缺陷。由于地下水要流入损毁的反应堆建筑中，因此每日都会产生放射性水，而在污水泄漏之前，该电站已经出现了很多问题。
Fresh trouble on Tuesday underscored the precarious cleanup efforts. A small fire broke out in a waste pile near plant incinerators, the company said. Firefighters extinguished the flames an hour later, and Tepco said there were no injuries and no increase in radiation levels, but the cause of the fire, which damaged an area of about 45 square feet, was under investigation.
东电称，电站焚化炉附近的一座废料堆周二发生了一起小型火灾，这桩新麻烦突显了清污工作的难度。东电表示，消防员一小时后成功灭火，火灾没有造成伤亡或辐射水平的上升，不过起火原因还在调查中。火灾导致了约45平方英尺（约合4.2平方米）的面积受损。
Tepco’s president, Naomi Hirose, said restarting the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa reactors would not divert attention from its cleanup at Fukushima. “At Kashiwazaki-Kariwa,” he said, “we have incorporated all the safety measures we can.”
东电社长广濑直己(Naomi Hirose)表示，重启柏崎刈羽的反应堆不会转移公司对福岛清理工作的注意力。他说，“在柏崎刈羽核电站，我们已经配备了所有可以采取的安全措施。”
Japan’s utilities have been encouraged by the pro-nuclear stance of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has largely reversed government policy conceived under a more liberal government that had hoped to phase out the nuclear power program.
日本的电力公司受到了首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的挺核立场的鼓舞。自由派色彩更浓厚的上届政府希望逐步退出核能计划，但安倍晋三已大体逆转了这种政策。
Mr. Abe appears to be counting on his ability to convince the Japanese that they will now be safe because the government has replaced its previous nuclear regulatory agency — which had been heavily criticized for its close links to the power industry — with a more independent one. The new regulators devised the latest safety standards.
看起来，安倍晋三指望自己能够说服日本民众，由于政府已将从前的核能监管机构替换为较独立的机构，他们现在会很安全。之前的监管机构一直因其与电力行业关系紧密而受到强烈批评。
But local communities will also have a say in signing off on restarts, and the governor of Niigata Prefecture, where Kashiwazaki-Kariwa is located, remains opposed, especially until Tepco reaches a fuller understanding of the safety lapses that led to the Fukushima disaster.
不过，地方团体也对批准重启核反应堆有一定的发言权。柏崎刈羽核电站所在的新潟县的知事仍持反对态度，尤其是东电对导致福岛灾害的安全失误还没有完全彻底地了解情况。
“Trying to push through the restarts now shows they’ve learned nothing from what happened in Fukushima,” Hirohiko Izumida, the governor, told the Nikkei business daily on Monday. “There must be a full accounting of why there was so much damage.”
周一，新潟县知事泉田裕彦(Hirohiko Izumida)接受《日经产业新闻》(Nikkei Business Daily)采访时表示，“试图现在就促成重启，这反映出他们没有从福岛事故中得到任何教训。他们必须全面审查损失如此惨重的原因。”
The seismic faults running underneath the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa site could be a hurdle in winning local approval. Tepco has not said when it might apply to restart the plant’s other five reactors.Tepco says the faults have not been active for at least 120,000 years, and that it has made the necessary fortifications at the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant to withstand quakes.
柏崎刈羽核电站所在地下方的地震断层可能会成为赢得地方批准的障碍。东电尚未明示什么时候会申请重启该电站的其他五个反应堆。不过东电称，该断层至少已有12万年没活动过了，而且公司也已在柏崎刈羽核电站采取了必要的加固措施，以禁受住地震的打击。
Tepco also says its finances have been crippled by the compensation it is paying to the victims of the Fukushima disaster, which at one point had displaced more than 100,000 people. The power company was effectively nationalized last year to help pay for the mounting claims.
东电表示，由于向福岛灾害受害者支付的赔偿金，公司财务严重受损。这场事故一度导致10万多人流离失所。去年，东电实际上被国有化，以帮助支付堆积如山的索赔要求。