BUENOS AIRES, Argentina — Tokyo was selected Saturday to host the 2020 Summer Olympics in what was considered a safe rather than transformative choice in a time of political and economic uncertainty around the globe.
阿根廷布宜诺斯艾利斯——上周六，东京被选为2020年夏季奥运会举办城市。人们认为这个选择比较安全，但却不具有变革意义，出发点是当今全球政治和经济的不确定状况。
After Japan’s prime minister gave an emphatic assurance of safety regarding the country’s 2011 nuclear disaster and continuing concerns about radioactivity, Tokyo easily defeated Istanbul and Madrid to be named host of the Summer Games for a second time.
人们仍对日本2011年发生的核事故和放射问题心存担忧，尽管如此，在日本首相给出强有力的安全保证之后，东京轻松击败伊斯坦布尔和马德里，第二次获得了夏季奥运会的主办权。
“When I heard the name Tokyo, I was so touched, overwhelmed,” said Shinzo Abe, Japan’s prime minister. “The joy was even greater than when I won my own election.”
“听到东京这个名字的时候，我太激动了，简直有些不知所措。”日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)说，“喜悦的感觉甚至比我赢得首相竞选的时候还要强烈。”
The decision was met with elation in Japan, where it was seen as a vote of international support for the nation’s efforts to pull itself out of a long economic and political decline and to overcome the devastating earthquake, tsunami and nuclear accident two years ago.
日本人对这个消息感到十分振奋，视其为国际社会对日本的支持，支持该国努力摆脱漫长的经济和政治衰退，并从两年前的灾难性地震、海啸和核事故中恢复。
Winning the Games also appeared to affirm Abe’s efforts to restore Japan’s confidence at a time when it has appeared increasingly eclipsed by neighboring China.
鉴于邻国中国似乎越来越令日本黯然失色，赢得奥运会主办权似乎也肯定了安倍晋三在恢复日本信心方面的努力。
“Japan has seemed to be overshadowed by the rise of China and other developing nations,” said Harumi Arima, an independent political analyst. “These Olympics will give Japanese a chance to feel reborn, to feel for themselves that Japan can still be vibrant.”
“日本似乎已被中国和其他发展中国家崛起的阴影所笼罩。 ”独立政治分析人士有马晴美(Harumi Arima)说。“这届奥运会将给日本人带来感受重生的机会，让日本人觉得自己的国家仍然可以充满活力。”
For the International Olympic Committee, environmental concerns in Japan appeared less urgent than the Syrian war on Turkey’s border, a harsh crackdown against antigovernment protesters recently in Istanbul and Spain’s economic recession and high unemployment.
国际奥委会看到了土耳其边境的叙利亚战争，看到了伊斯坦布尔近日发生的残酷镇压反政府示威者事件，以及西班牙的经济衰退和高失业率，跟这些问题相比，日本的环境问题倒显得不那么紧迫。
Tokyo presented its bid as a “safe pair of hands,” an appeal that clearly resonated with Olympic officials.
东京在申奥时强调了“安全之手”(safe pair of hands)的魅力，这显然引起了奥委会官员的共鸣。
“This is something that appeals to me as a surgeon,” said Jacques Rogge, the president of the Olympic committee and a retired orthopedist from Belgium, who did not vote Saturday, as is tradition.
“作为一名外科医生，我觉得这很有吸引力。”国际奥林匹克委员会主席雅克·罗格(Jacques Rogge)说。他来自比利时，是一名退休的骨科医生，根据传统，他没有参与上周六的投票。
Tokyo hosted the 1964 Summer Olympics, and Japan has twice hosted the Winter Games, in Sapporo in 1972 and in Nagano in 1998. Japan also hosted the 2002 World Cup with South Korea and has repeatedly shown it can organize the world’s largest sporting events. It has a reserve fund worth $4.5 billion to build stadiums for the 2020 Games.
东京曾主办1964年夏季奥运会。日本曾两次举办冬季奥运会，分别是1972年的札幌冬奥会和1998年的长野冬奥会。该国还跟韩国一起举办了2002年世界杯，多次证明自己能够举办世界上规模最大的体育赛事。它为兴建2020年奥运会场馆准备了45亿美元的资金。
“The members wanted to have a choice between a bid addressing tradition and stability and another bid that was addressing new projects,” said Thomas Bach, an I.O.C. delegate from Germany who is expected to succeed Rogge as president. “In today’s political and economic situation, the clear tendency was toward tradition and stability.”
“委员们要在两个申办提案之间做出选择，一个强调传统和稳定，另一个强调新项目，”有望接替罗格成为主席的德国奥委会代表托马斯·巴赫(Thomas Bach)说。“在今天的政治经济形势下，明确的趋势是指向传统和稳定。”
Kevan Gosper, an I.O.C. delegate from Australia, said Tokyo represented “a pretty secure option and demonstrates a shift in world activity and economics and sport toward Asia.”
澳大利亚国际奥委会代表凯万·高斯帕(Kevan Gosper)说，东京代表着“一个相当安全的选项，并且展示了世界活动、经济和体育向亚洲的转变”。
Although Istanbul, the Turkish metropolis, did better than many expected in finishing second to Tokyo, it lost a fifth attempt to host the Games. They would have been the first held in a predominantly Muslim country.
土耳其大都市伊斯坦布尔的表现比许多人预计的都要好，在东京之后名列第二，尽管如此，它却已是第五次申奥失败。如果它取得成功，奥运会就将第一次在以穆斯林为主体的国家举行。
Some I.O.C. delegates had expressed reluctance trying to forecast Turkey’s political situation seven years from now, given regional instability, what some critics in the country call the autocratic governing style of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and a divide between secularists and Islamists.
一些国际奥委会成员曾经表示，他们不愿预测七年之后的土耳其政局，原因是该地区很不稳定，此外还有该国一些批评人士所说的总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)的独裁执政风格，以及世俗主义者与伊斯兰主义者之间的鸿沟。
Madrid was considered to be making a late charge, but ultimately it was the first city eliminated, failing for a third consecutive time to be named an Olympic host.
马德里据信会在最后时刻发起强力冲刺，最终却还是成了第一座被淘汰的城市，这是它连续第三次申奥失败。
Apparently, Madrid was unable to allay concerns by the Olympic committee that it could stage a successful Games, even at a relatively low cost, in a climate of recession and high unemployment that has left half of Spain’s youths without jobs.
显然，由于衰退和高失业率的经济气候已经导致半数的西班牙年轻人失业，马德里无法消除奥委会的顾虑，无法让后者相信它可以成功地举办一届奥运会，哪怕花费相对较低。
Some analysts said they hoped winning the 2020 Olympics would give Tokyo the same sort of economic boost, and rebirth in spirit, that the city experienced the last time it hosted the Summer Games, in 1964.
一些分析人士称，他们希望，赢得2020年奥运会主办权能让东京再次体验举办1964年夏季奥运会时的经历，给这个城市带来同样的经济增长和士气重生。
Those Olympics are still vividly remembered as proclaiming the success of Japan’s recovery from the ashes of World War II and launching the modern city of highways and bullet trains.
那一届奥运会仍然历历在目，它宣告日本从二战的废墟中成功复苏，建起了一座具备高速公路和高速铁路的现代化城市。
Shusei Tanaka, a political scientist at Fukuyama University, said that Tokyo would get not only an expected economic boost of $30 billion in new growth, but also a chance to reinvent itself in the 21st century.
福山大学(Fukuyama University)政治学专家田中秀征(Shusei Tanaka)说，东京由此收获的将不仅是300亿美元的经济新增长预期，还有在21世纪重塑自身的机会。
“I feel like I did during the last Olympics, when I was still a university student,” Tanaka, 72, said. “Why am I so excited this time? I think it’s the natural disaster. We have a chance to build a new economy, hopefully without nuclear power, and to build a new urban lifestyle.”
“我的感觉跟上一次奥运会一样，那时我还是一名大学生，”72岁的田中秀征说。“这一次我为什么如此激动？我想是因为之前的自然灾害。我们将有机会建设一种新的经济，希望其中没有核能，还有机会建立一种新的城市生活方式。”