TOKYO — Everyone knew that Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan, was headed to Rio to represent the country that will host the 2020 Summer Olympics. But viewers who tuned into the broadcast of Rio’s closing ceremony on Monday morning Japan time were surprised to see their normally sober leader pop out of an oversize green drainpipe dressed as Super Mario, the star of the popular Nintendo video game series.
东京——大家都知道，为代表将于2020年举办夏季奥运会的日本，该国首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)去了里约。但日本时间周一早上，收看里约奥运会闭幕式的观众惊讶地发现，他们这位通常很稳重的领导人扮成了超级马里奥，也就是备受欢迎的任天堂(Nintendo)电子游戏系列里的明星，从一根超大号的绿色排水管里冒了出来。
Mr. Abe’s appearance followed a glossy promotional video showing athletes in stereotypical scenes from Tokyo, as well as various characters from popular culture, including Hello Kitty and Doraemon. The scene cut to Mr. Abe in a taxi, fretting that he wouldn’t make it to Rio on time, followed by an animated Super Mario diving into a green pipe in Tokyo, emerging as a human figure from the green pipe on the field in Rio de Janeiro. When his costume fell off, the prime minister emerged, holding a red ball and waving a red cap, a shadow of a smile on his face.
在他出场前，一段精美的宣传片展现了东京最典型场景中的运动员，以及流行文化里的种种角色，包括凯蒂猫(Hello Kitty)和哆啦A梦。当场景切换至出租车内的安倍晋三，担心无法及时赶到里约的他焦躁不安。接着，动画人物超级马里奥跳进了东京的一条绿色排水管，又从里约奥运场地上的绿色排水管中以真人形象钻出。戏装散落之际，首相现身，他手里拿着一个红球，挥舞着一顶红帽子，脸上挂着一抹微笑。
Reaction on social media in Japan was swift and amused, with “Abe Mario” the top trending topic on Twitter.
日本社交媒体上的反应既迅速又有趣，“安倍马里奥”成了最热门的Twitter话题。
One user, @kirifurikogen, said: “Wow, I thought a middle-aged uncle cosplaying as Mario was going to come out in the middle of the live closing ceremony at the Rio Games. But that’s PM Abe!”
用户@kirifurikogen说：“哇！我还以为在现场直播的里约奥运会闭幕式上，冒出来的是个cos马里奥的中年大叔。但那是安倍首相啊！”
In a note of wry political humor, one tweet referred to Mr. Abe’s nationalist leanings, including a long-running controversy over Yasukuni, the large shrine in central Tokyo that honors the nation’s war dead, including convicted war criminals. When political leaders visit the shrine, they draw strong reactions from China and South Korea. Mr. Abe has only visited the shrine once during his time as prime minister.
有一条推颇具揶揄的政治幽默，提及了安倍的民族主义倾向，包括与靖国神社有关的争议。东京市中心的这座大型神社供奉着日本战死者的亡灵，其中包括已经被定罪的战犯。每当政治人物参拜靖国神社，都会招致中国和韩国的强烈反对。安倍晋三自从担任首相以来，只去参拜过一次。
“Prime Minister, you managed not to make a mistake,” wrote @sazanami_kyodai, adding a picture of three drainpipes, labeled the prime minister’s office, Yasukuni and Rio.
“首相，你没犯错，你做到啦，”@sazanami_kyodai写道，并配了一张画有三条排水管的图，分别标示为首相办公室、靖国神社和里约。
The promotional video and Olympic performance were developed by the Tokyo Organizing Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. An outline of the performance was given to reporters covering the Rio Games in advance, but it only mentioned “a surprise guest from Japan!”
闭幕式上的宣传片和表演，是由东京奥运会和残奥会筹备委员会(Tokyo Organizing Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games)制作的。报道里约奥运会的记者事先收到了表演纲要，但其中只提到会有“一位来自日本的神秘嘉宾！”
With Super Mario featured in the Tokyo 2020 promotion, even Nintendo’s stock seemed to get a boost, rising more than 3 percent in Tokyo trading.
随着超级马里奥在2020年东京奥运会的宣传活动中亮相，就连任天堂的股票似乎都得到了提振，在东京交易所的交易价格上涨逾3%。
“I hate to admit it, but I feel soothed by Abe Mario,” the user @shimizu111485 wrote.
“我羞于承认这一点，但安倍马里奥让我感到宽慰，”用户@shimizu111485写道。
Others, such as @tokyo_satokei, did not find his appearance so reassuring.
其他一些人，比如@tokyo_satokei，并不觉得他的出场令人安心。
“Never expected Abe Mario by PM Abe. He appeared as Mario out of a drainpipe. ‘Warp Zone from Tokyo to Rio,’ but it reminded me of a meltdown. Hot nuclear fuel from the nuclear accident fell into the ground and reached the other side of the earth... Rio Syndrome.”
“绝没想到安倍首相会成为安倍马里奥。他扮作马里奥从一条排水管里冒了出来。‘从东京穿越到里约’，但这让我想起了熔毀事故。来自核事故的炽热核燃料陷入地面，抵达了地球另一侧……里约症候群。”