OVER CONSTANTA, Romania — High over the Romanian border, a sophisticated NATO surveillance plane kept a close watch on Russian movements below. Its radar screens came alive with a cat-and-mouse game between a Russian surveillance jet buzzing an American guided missile destroyer in the Black Sea and a squadron of NATO fighter jets that chased it away.
罗马尼亚康斯坦察上空——在罗马尼亚边境的高空中，一架先进的北约侦察机正密切地观察着下方俄罗斯的一举一动。机上的多块雷达屏幕正直播着一场“猫鼠游戏”，游戏的双方是北约的一个战斗机群，和正在被它驱赶的一架俄罗斯侦察机。这架侦察机此前逼近了黑海上的一艘美国导弹驱逐舰。
It was a scene reminiscent of the Cold War, and NATO’s mission was meant to reassure allies that are feeling newly vulnerable to Russian threats after Moscow’s muscular intervention in neighboring Ukraine.
这一幕很容易让人想起冷战时期。北约的上述行动旨在安抚一些盟友。在莫斯科武力介入邻国乌克兰的问题后，面对俄罗斯的威胁，这些国家突然有了一种脆弱感。
But it provided little comfort to NATO’s Eastern European members, which are growing increasingly nervous about Russia’s moves and the alliance’s ability, or even willingness, to counter them.
但这并没有让北约在东欧的成员国感到宽慰。对于俄罗斯的一系列举动，以及联盟与俄罗斯进行对抗的能力甚至意愿，这些东欧成员国感到越来越紧张。
Today’s NATO, hollowed out by years of European military cuts and deployed mostly to help fight far-off battles in places like Afghanistan and Libya, is no longer as prepared to counter a newly assertive Kremlin, its own leaders acknowledge.
北约的领导人们承认，欧洲多年的军费削减已经掏空了联盟，北约目前的部署主要是为了在阿富汗和利比亚等遥远战场提供作战帮助，它已经不再那么有把握对抗重新摆出强硬姿态的俄罗斯。
Western European members of NATO may regard the conflict over Ukraine as remote, an annoying threat to their business ties to Moscow, said Artis Pabriks, who was Latvia’s defense minister until he stepped down in late January. “But for us, it’s not about money, it’s existential,” he said. “You guys may remain with your freedoms, but we may not, so it’s different.”
阿尔蒂斯·帕布利克斯(Artis Pabriks)曾是拉脱维亚的国防部长，今年1月末卸任。他说，北约的西欧成员国可能认为有关乌克兰的这场冲突很遥远，是对它们与莫斯科商业关系的一个恼人的威胁。“但对我们来说，这不是钱的问题，而是关乎生死存亡，”他说，“你们可能会继续享有自由，但我们可能不会了，所以，这是不一样的。”
NATO itself is awakening to the altered circumstances. Ukraine, said Maj. Gen. Andrew M. Mueller, who commands NATO’s fleet of 17 surveillance planes, “made us re-emphasize the mission we were built for.”
北约自身正逐渐认清目前已经出现变化的形势。负责指挥北约17架侦察机的编队的安德鲁·M·米勒(Andrew M. Mueller)少将说，乌克兰“让我们重新明确了我们创建时被赋予的使命。”
“We’re augmenting NATO defenses inside NATO,” he added. “We’d gotten away from that a bit with Afghanistan and Libya.”
“我们正在北约内部强化北约国家的防务，”他补充说。“我们在阿富汗和利比亚所做的，有点偏离了这个重心。”
But it will take more than a change of emphasis to re-energize a military alliance that has badly eroded since 1989. The United States is responsible for 75 percent of NATO military spending, and only a handful of European countries meet the alliance’s target of having military budgets of 2 percent of gross domestic product.
不过，要为这个1989年以来已经被严重削弱的军事联盟重新注入活力，不光需要改变工作重心。美国目前负责北约军费支出的75%，只有几个欧洲国家达到了联盟规定的、军费预算须达到GDP的2%的目标。
NATO is the front line of response to increased tensions with Russia, but the reluctance of the United States and its Western European allies to beef up the alliance reflects an ambivalence about confronting Russia too frontally, either militarily or through punishing economic sanctions.
在对俄罗斯引发的紧张关系的回应中，北约处于重要位置。但美国及其西欧盟友不愿强化联盟的态度反映出，关于是否过于正面地与俄罗斯进行对抗——无论是军事对抗，还是通过惩罚性的经济制裁，这些国家仍举棋不定。
The reluctance is particularly strong among some NATO members, like Spain, Italy, France and Germany, with major business and energy ties to Russia. They would like to see a quick return to the status quo ante.
在一些北约成员国中，这种勉强情绪尤为强烈，比如西班牙、意大利、法国和德国，这些国家与俄罗斯有着广泛的商业与能源关系。它们希望能迅速回归常态。
But in a division reminiscent of the debate over “New Europe” and “Old Europe” during the Bush years, NATO members near the Russian border say that era is over.
这场分歧让人联想起布什时代关于“新欧洲”和“旧欧洲”的讨论。但毗邻俄罗斯的北约成员国却表示，那个时代已经结束了。
“The fundamental understanding of security in Europe has now collapsed,” said President Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia. “Everything that has happened since 1989 has been predicated on the fundamental assumption that you don’t change borders by force, and that’s now out the window. Political leaders need to recognize that the old rules no longer apply.”
“欧洲在安全方面的根本概念已经瓦解，”爱沙尼亚总统托马斯·亨德里克·伊尔韦斯(Toomas Hendrik Ilves)说，“1989年以来所发生的一切都基于这一根本假设，即任何国家都不会通过使用武力改变国界，但这个假设已被推翻。政治领袖们必须意识到，旧的规则已不再适用。”
The surveillance fleet is owned by NATO, with money and staffing contributions from 17 nations. It is under the direct control of the top NATO commander, Gen. Philip M. Breedlove of the United States Air Force, who can deploy the planes without consulting with member states. General Breedlove became NATO commander in July, and he has been outspoken about the new threat from Russia.
上述侦察机编队由北约所有，资金和人员来自17个国家。它目前由北约最高指挥官、美国空军的菲利普·M·布里德洛夫(Philip M. Breedlove)上将直接控制，他可以在不与成员国协商的情况下部署这些飞机。布里德洛夫上将去年7月成为北约指挥官，他一直在直言不讳地谈论来自俄罗斯的最新威胁。
The Obama administration has so far rejected suggestions, including some from senior officials in the State Department, to significantly increase the tiny presence of American or NATO troops, or the supplies of military equipment, in countries bordering Russia. The White House does not want NATO to pour fuel on the fire, a senior official said, but it did recently commit American troops for temporary exercises in Poland and the Baltics. But the total number is tiny: about 600 paratroopers normally based in Italy.
奥巴马政府目前为止已经拒绝了一些建议，没有在俄罗斯毗邻的国家大幅增加美国或北约军队或军备物资，提出这一建议的包括国务院的高级官员。一名高级官员说，白宫不想让北约火上浇油，但它最近派遣美国军队在波兰和波罗的海国家进行演习。不过规模很小：只有大约600名通常驻扎在意大利的伞兵。
“This is very symbolic reassurance, very carefully calibrated to ratchet up if need be,” said Sean Kay, a former Pentagon adviser on NATO. Washington does not want to feed the notion of the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, that the West is determined to encroach on traditional Russian turf, he said. But some argue that for Washington to do so little is an invitation to Mr. Putin to do more.
前美国国防部北约问题顾问肖恩·凯(Sean Kay)说，“这是极具象征性的安抚行动，如果有必要，将谨慎地升级。”他说，华盛顿不想为俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的说法提供佐证，即西方决意侵犯俄罗斯传统的势力范围。但一些人说，华盛顿袖手旁观的做法，就是在鼓励普京采取更多行动。
NATO has refrained from deploying substantial numbers of troops in member states bordering Russia, in accordance with a unilateral promise made to Moscow in 1997, when Russia was behaving more cooperatively.
北约没有在毗邻俄罗斯的成员国部署大量军队，这符合1997年，在俄罗斯的态度更加合作时，北约向莫斯科做出的单边许诺。
For the same reason, although the Baltic nations have been full members of NATO since 2005, there was no military contingency plan to defend them until 2009, after Russia’s war with Georgia. Now, with the annexation of Crimea and the threat to eastern Ukraine, many in Northern Europe believe that posture must change.
也是因为这个原因，尽管从2005年开始，波罗的海国家就是北约的正式成员国，但该组织一直没有制定保护这些国家的军事应急计划，直到2009年，俄罗斯与格鲁吉亚爆发战争后，情况才发生改变。如今，由于克里米亚被吞并，以及乌克兰东部遭受威胁，北欧的许多国家认为，这种状况必须改变。
NATO has been trying to respond, Mr. Ilves, the Estonian president, said. “Everything that has been said sounds good, and NATO has announced various air and sea measures,” he said. “But when it actually starts happening, it will sound and look even better.”
爱沙尼亚总统伊尔韦斯说，北约一直在努力回应。“目前所说的一切听起来都不错，北约也宣布了各种空中和海上措施，但是，如果真的开始实施，听起来、看起来都会更好。”
What countries like the Baltic States, Poland and Romania need are “boots on the ground, a presence in the region,” Mr. Ilves said, as well as air defenses, not just air policing.
伊尔韦斯说，波罗的海国家和波兰、罗马尼亚等国所需要的，是“部署兵力，在该地区建立军事存在”，还有空中防务，而不光是防空警备。
Despite the recent statements from NATO, Mr. Pabriks, the former Latvian defense minister, said, “the Polish and Baltic publics are not certain.”
尽管北约最近做出了表态，拉脱维亚前国防部长帕布利克斯说，“波兰和波罗的海的公众仍有怀疑。”