HONG KONG — A blazing Iranian tanker that sank in the East China Sea, producing a 10-mile-long oil slick, is drawing concern from environmentalists about the threat to sea and bird life in the waterway.
香港——一艘熊熊燃烧的伊朗油轮在东海沉没，产生了10英里（约合16公里）长的浮油。这对航道中海洋生物和鸟类生物造成的威胁，引起了环保主义者的担忧。
The tanker, the Sanchi, was carrying 136,000 tons of highly flammable fuel oil when it crashed into a freighter on Jan. 6. On Sunday, the Sanchi sank after a huge blast sent up a great plume of black smoke and set the surface of the water on fire, China Central Television said.
1月6日与一艘货轮发生碰撞时，“桑吉号”(Sanchi)油轮正装载着13.6万吨高度易燃的燃油。中国中央电视台报道称，“桑吉号”在周日爆燃时冒出了滚滚黑烟并致使海面起火，随后沉没。
The bodies of three crew members have been recovered, and the remaining 29 were presumed dead, the Iranian government said.
伊朗政府表示已找回三名船员的遗体，余下29人估计已经遇难。
One concern is that the sinking of the ship will pose more of a danger to marine life as the fuel oil it carried spreads instead of burning off. And experts are further concerned that the even dirtier bunker fuel powering the tanker will be released into the sea, exposing delicate marine life to the extremely toxic substance.
担忧之一是油轮的沉没将对海洋生物构成更大的危害，因为它装载的燃油将会扩散而非燃尽。并且专家们更加担心的是会有污染更大的船用重油释放入海，使脆弱的海洋生物暴露在剧毒物质之下。
Greenpeace expressed alarm about the threat to the marine ecosystem in the East China Sea, which is one of the world’s most heavily trafficked waterways, saying the disaster occurred in “an important spawning ground” for fish.
绿色和平组织(Greenpeace)对世界最繁忙的水上运输通道之一——东海所面临的海洋生态系统威胁表示震惊，称这起灾难发生在鱼类“重要的产卵场”。
“At this time of year the area is used as wintering ground by common edible species such as hairtail, yellow croaker, chub mackerel and blue crab,” Greenpeace said. “The area is also on the migratory pathway of many marine mammals, such as humpback whale, right whale and gray whale.”
“一年中的这个时候，这片区域会被带鱼、黄花鱼、鲐鱼、蓝蟹等日常食用物种当做冬栖地，”绿色和平组织说。“许多海洋哺乳动物的迁徙路线也经过这个区域，如座头鲸、露脊鲸和灰鲸。”
The tanker was carrying one million barrels of condensate, an extremely light crude oil, to South Korea when it collided with the freighter. When spilled, the condensate can produce a deep underwater plume damaging to marine life.
与货轮相撞时，这艘油轮正装载着100万桶凝析油——一种极其轻质的原油——运往韩国。若泄漏，凝析油会在海下深处形成对海洋生物有害的污染羽。
The Japanese Coast Guard said the fire on the surface of the sea was extinguished early Monday. It said patrol boats were making progress containing the spill, which was reported to be eight miles long and seven miles wide on Monday. Strong winds were pushing the spill toward Japan, away from China.
日本海上保安厅(Japanese Coast Guard)表示，海面的火在周一清早已被扑灭，此外巡逻艇在控制泄漏上已有进展，据称周一时泄漏已达8英里长，7英里宽。强风把泄漏吹往了日本方向，远离中国。
The Sanchi disaster is the largest tanker spill since 1991, when an unexplained detonation caused the ABT tanker to leak 260,000 tons of oil off the coast of Angola.
“桑吉号”灾难是自1991年以来最大的油轮泄漏事故，当时，一艘因不明原因爆炸的ABT油轮在安哥拉海岸泄漏了26万吨石油。
Rick Steiner, a marine conservation specialist formerly with the University of Alaska, told The Associated Press that 60,000 to 90,000 tons was likely to have spilled into the sea, calling it “enormous” and “as large as the official estimate of the Exxon Valdez disaster” off the coast of Alaska in 1989.
阿拉斯加大学(University of Alaska)前海洋保护专家里克·斯坦纳(Rick Steiner)告诉美联社(The Associated Press)，可能有6万到9万吨已经泄漏入海，称本次泄漏“十分巨大”并且和1989年阿拉斯加海岸“埃克森－瓦尔迪兹的漏油事件中官方估计的一样大”。
The deaths of the Sanchi crew members prompted Iran’s government to declare a day of national mourning on Monday to honor “the brave mariners who died in the course of their mission.”
“桑吉号”船员的死亡促使伊朗政府宣布周一为全国哀悼日，以纪念“在完成使命的途中遇难的英勇航海者”。
Eshaq Jahangiri, Iran’s first vice president, said that efforts to recover the bodies of 29 crew members ceased when the tanker sank off the China’s coast on Sunday.
伊朗第一副总统埃斯哈格·贾汉吉里(Eshaq Jahangiri)表示，在油轮周日在中国海岸海域沉没后，他们就停止了对29名船员遗体的搜寻。
Because of the release of toxic gases after the explosion, there was little hope that the crew members survived, but efforts to recover their bodies had continued, Mr. Jahangiri said. “Unfortunately, the ship sank and we could not access their bodies.”
贾汉吉里表示，由于爆炸后有毒气体的排放，船员生还希望渺茫，但寻回遗体的努力仍在继续。“但不幸的是，轮船沉没后我们没有了找回遗体的机会。”