WASHINGTON — While foreign-policy experts and risk analysts were riveted by the nuclear talks with Iran last weekend, the next major geopolitical crisis erupted a world away, over a clump of desolate islands in the choppy waters between Japan and China.
华盛顿——外交政策专家和风险分析人士还在专注于上周末同伊朗进行的核谈判，与此同时，在世界的另一端，中日之间动荡海域中的几座荒岛又引爆了下一场重大的地缘政治危机。
With the United States dispatching two B-52s to reinforce its protest over China’s attempt to control the airspace over the islands, it served as a timely reminder that President Obama wants to turn America’s gaze eastward, away from the preoccupations of the Middle East.
为了强化对中国试图控制相关岛屿上方空域的抗议，美国派出了两架B-52。这也是一个及时的提醒，让人们看到奥巴马总统希望改变埋首中东问题的以往做法，将美国的主意力转向东边。
Mr. Obama’s shift — once known as a pivot, now rebranded as a rebalance — has always seemed more rhetorical than real. But when Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. travels to China, Japan and South Korea next week, the administration will have another chance to flesh out the policy.
奥巴马的调整之前被称作转向，现在被改名为再平衡。一直以来，它好像更多是一种说法，没有体现在实际当中。然而，在副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)于下周访问中国、日本和韩国期间，奥巴马政府将迎来又一个充实该政策的机会。
“What isn’t clear to me is whether they see this as a Japan-China problem that needs to be managed or as part of a longer-term test of wills with Beijing,” said Michael J. Green, an Asia adviser in the administration of President George W. Bush who is now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
“在我看来，尚不明朗的是，他们是把它看做中日之间一个需要管控的问题，还是一次与北京方面的长期意志较量，”乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统时期的亚洲事务顾问、现供职于国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的迈克尔·J·格林( Michael J. Green)说。
If it is the latter, Mr. Green said, the United States needs to project military power in the region, build up the defensive capacities of allies like Japan and the Philippines, and align the countries that ring China’s coastal waters to present a united front against Beijing’s aggression.
格林表示，如果是后者，则美国必须在该地区投送军事力量，提升包括日本和菲律宾在内的盟友的防御能力，同时与环绕中国沿海水域的各个国家结盟，结成统一战线来对抗北京的咄咄逼人之势。
The trouble, he added, is that “the administration is very worried about appearing to contain China.”
他补充说，麻烦在于“奥巴马政府很怕自己看上去是在遏制中国”。
The cause of all this trouble are the flyspeck Senkaku Islands, which Japan administers but that China, enticed that they may sit atop rich mineral reserves, now claims, calling them the Diaoyu Islands.
所有这些麻烦的根源是名叫尖阁诸岛的几座小岛。这些岛屿处于日本管辖之下，但受这些岛屿下面可能蕴藏丰富矿藏的诱惑，中国现在也声称拥有其主权。中国称其为钓鱼岛。
The dispute has mushroomed into a dangerous standoff between the world’s second- and third-largest economies — one that rekindles old resentments over the World War II conduct of imperial Japan and pits a conservative Japanese leader, Shinzo Abe, against a Chinese president, Xi Jinping, who is riding a nationalist tide in his country.
这一争端已迅速发展成了全球第二和第三大经济体之间的危险对峙。对峙重新点燃了对二战时期日本帝国行为的积怨，也把日本保守派领导人安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)和正在利用本国民族主义浪潮的中国国家主席习近平变成了对头。
With so much at stake, Mr. Biden’s advisers say the dispute will intrude on every meeting he has in the region. That could come at a cost to an agenda that includes promoting a trans-Pacific trade deal and discussing how to deal with the nuclear threat in North Korea. Mr. Biden must also decide how to handle the bitter animosity between Mr. Abe and South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye.
鉴于形势如此严峻，拜登的顾问表示，他在该地区举行的每一次会面都会涉及这一争端。这可能会损害美国的议程，包括促成跨太平洋贸易协定和讨论如何应对朝鲜核威胁在内。此外，拜登还必须决定如何处理安倍晋三和韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)之间的敌意。
“There’s an emerging pattern of behavior that is unsettling to China’s neighbors,” a senior administration official said on Wednesday, previewing Mr. Biden’s message. At the same, he added, “The vice president of the United States is not traveling to Beijing to deliver a démarche,” a diplomatic term of art for a slap on the wrist.
周三，在预测拜登将要传达的讯号时，奥巴马政府的一名高官说，“目前出现了一种新的行为模式，中国的邻国对此很不安。”他补充说，同样，“美国副总统不是到北京去耍外交手腕的”。“外交手腕”是外交术语，形容轻微的谴责。
The delicate balancing act in Mr. Obama’s Asia policy, between cooperating with and containing China, is evident in the administration’s mixed messages over the last two weeks. Speaking before Beijing’s latest provocation, the national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, said the United States was seeking “a new model of major power relations.”
过去两周，政府传达了一些成分复杂的讯息，突显了奥巴马亚洲政策包含的微妙平衡，既要与中国合作，又要遏制中国。在中国最近一次发出挑衅之前，国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)曾表示，美国正在寻求“一种新的大国关系模式”。
“That means,” she said in her maiden speech on Asia, “managing inevitable competition while forging deeper cooperation on issues where our interests converge.”
“这意味着，”她在初次就亚洲事务发表演讲时说，“在管控不可避免的竞争的同时，我们要在涉及共同利益的问题上建立更深入的合作。”
Referring to the territorial disputes between China and its neighbors — which flare up not only with Japan in the East China Sea but also in the South China Sea, with the Philippines and Vietnam — Ms. Rice urged “all parties to reject coercion and aggression and to pursue their claims in accordance with international law and norms.”
谈到中国和邻国之间的领土争端时，赖斯敦促“各方摈弃高压手段和挑衅，根据国际法和国际准则来追求自己的主张。”这些争端不仅包括中日之间的东海争端，也包括中国与菲律宾及越南的南海争端。
To some critics, that smacked of moral equivalence: the coercion and aggression have been overwhelmingly on the part of China against its smaller neighbors. But on Saturday, when Beijing announced an “air defense identification zone” over a wide section of airspace above the islands, the United States jumped off the fence.
对一些批评者而言，这种立场有一点放弃道德评判的味道，因为在绝大多数情况下，一直是中国在对较小的邻国施加高压手段并进行挑衅。可是上周六，当北京宣布在争议岛屿上方的广阔空域划定“防空识别区”时，美国立刻进行了反击。
Secretary of State John Kerry immediately condemned what he called an “escalatory action” by China and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said the United States would not alter any military operations because of it, a promise he kept this week by dispatching the unarmed bombers from Guam on a routine mission off the coast of China.
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)立即予以谴责，说这是中国的“升级行为”，国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)则说，美国不会因此而改变任何军事行动。本周，美国说到做到，从关岛派出未配备武器的轰炸机，在中国临海地区执行了常规任务。
Administration officials said it was important to push back against China’s dubious assertion of jurisdiction over international airspace. The Chinese policy requires foreign planes flying through the zone to identify themselves and file a flight plan, even if they are not flying into Chinese airspace.
奥巴马政府官员说，反对中国对国际空域提出可疑的管辖权主张是至关重要的。中方的政策要求飞越识别区的外国飞机说明身份，报备飞行计划，哪怕它们不会飞进中国领空。
The symbolism of B-52s’ flying, with no advance warning, through China’s zone spares Mr. Biden from having to play the tough guy. But experts said he needed to leave no doubt in talks with President Xi that the United States thinks the Chinese move was ill advised.
B-52轰炸机在未提出事先警告的情况下飞越中国防空识别区，此举的象征意义使拜登不必再扮演硬汉角色。不过，专家们说，在和中国国家主席习近平谈话的时候，他还是需要斩钉截铁地向对方表明，美国认为中国的行动很欠考虑。
“It will have the Chinese scrambling aircraft time after time, especially if the Japanese play games with it,” said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a China adviser during the Clinton administration.
克林顿时期的中国事务顾问李侃如(Kenneth G. Lieberthal)说，“这会让中国飞机一次又一次地紧急起飞，尤其是在日本和中国玩起猫鼠游戏的情况下。”
The vice president has firsthand experience of this. On a visit to Beijing in 2011, he presented Chinese officials with photographs taken by American pilots that documented how Chinese fighters, dispatched to intercept American planes flying surveillance missions off China’s coast, sometimes came within 10 feet of their wingtips.
副总统对此有亲身体会。2011年访问北京时，他向中国官员出示了美国飞行员拍摄的照片，照片显示，中国战斗机与在中国临海地区执行侦察任务的美国飞机之间的翼尖距离有时还不到10英尺（约合3米），中国飞机是奉命拦截这些美国飞机的。
Mr. Biden has cultivated an unusually personal relationship with Mr. Xi. The two traveled together in China and the United States, when Mr. Xi was vice president. That may make Mr. Biden more alert to the domestic political pressures the Chinese leader faces, as he embarks on risky economic reforms after a recent Communist Party congress.
拜登和习近平建立了非比寻常的私交。习近平任国家副主席时，两人曾在中国和美国一起出行。这可能会让拜登更加清楚地意识到这位中国领导人面临的国内政治压力，后者在近期的共产党党代会后启动了具有风险的经济改革。
“Chinese social media, official and semiofficial media are all playing up this dispute,” said Cheng Li, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “The U.S. has failed to understand how much weight the sovereignty issue carries with Asian countries.”
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)资深研究员李成(Cheng Li)说，“中国的社交媒体、官方和半官方媒体都在大肆宣扬此次争端。美国对主权问题在亚洲国家心目中的分量缺乏了解。”
The tensions are likely to increase. The Chinese Navy has put its only aircraft carrier out to sea, on a course toward the South China Sea. In the East China Sea, an American carrier group is joining Japanese warships for long-planned naval exercises.
紧张态势很可能会加剧。中国海军已将唯一的一艘航母派往南海。在东海，一支美军航母舰队正准备和日本战舰一起展开计划已久的海军演习。
With so much firepower in such hotly contested waters, experts said there was a real danger of miscalculation by either side. Mr. Biden, who will begin his trip in Tokyo, is expected to urge Mr. Abe to show restraint as well.
一些专家表示，鉴于在竞争已达白热化的水域聚集了如此密集的火力，双方都面临着真正的误判风险。据估计，即将前往东京的拜登也会敦促安倍晋三保持克制。
The good news for all concerned, China experts said, is that Mr. Xi is much less interested in military adventurism than in overhauling China’s economy. “The chances of a real war are still low,” Mr. Li said. “But sometimes incidents will push leaders into a corner.”
中国问题专家说，对于涉事各方来说，好消息是，相比大力整治中国经济，习近平对军事冒险的兴趣要小得多。李成说，“发生真实战争的几率依然是相当低的。不过，意外事件有时会把领导人逼到死角。”