TOKYO — The operator of Japan’s tsunami-hit nuclear power plant sounded the alarm on the gravity of the deepening crisis of containment at the coastal site on Friday, saying that there are more than 200,000 tons of radioactive water in makeshift tanks vulnerable to leaks, with no reliable way to check on them or anywhere to transfer the water.
东京——周五，遭遇过海啸袭击的核电站的运营商拉响警报，指出了这座海滨电站不断深化的污染危机的严重性，称临时水槽中的20多万吨放射性污水很容易发生泄漏，既没有可靠的防漏办法，也没有地方可以转移。
The latest disclosures add to a long list of recent accidents, leaks and breakdowns that have underscored grave vulnerabilities at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant site more than two years after a powerful earthquake and tsunami set off meltdowns at three reactors.
除上述最新披露外，最近还发生了一长串突显福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)严重缺陷的事故、泄漏和故障。两年多以前，一场大地震和海啸引发了该电站三座反应堆的熔化。
They come two weeks after the prime minister, Shinzo Abe, promised that his government would take a more active role in the site’s cleanup, raising questions over how seriously he has taken that pledge. Mr. Abe’s government has continued to push for a restart of the country’s nuclear power program, and he heads to the Middle East on Saturday to promote Japanese exports to the region, including nuclear technology.
前述情况披露两周之前，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)曾经承诺，自己领导的政府将在福岛核电站的清理工作中扮演更积极的角色，然而，此次披露的情况却让人们质疑他对这一承诺的重视程度。安倍政府一直在推动重启该国的核电项目，安倍晋三本人也将于周六前往中东，旨在推动日本面向该地区的出口，其中包括核技术。
Mr. Abe also plans to lead Tokyo’s delegation to Argentina for the International Olympic Committee’s final vote, set for Sept. 7, on the host city for the 2020 Olympics. Tokyo, 150 miles south of the stricken nuclear power plant, is one of three finalists competing to host the games. The others are Istanbul and Madrid.
安倍晋三还计划率领东京代表团前往阿根廷，出席国际奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)就2020年奥运会主办城市举行的最终投票，投票定于9月7日举行。位于受损核电站以南150英里（约合240公里）的东京是2020年奥运会申办城市中的最后三个角逐者之一。另外两个城市分别是伊斯坦布尔和马德里。
Opposition lawmakers here have demanded that Mr. Abe stay home and declare a state of emergency.
东京的反对派议员要求安倍晋三留在国内，还要求他宣布日本进入紧急状态。
“The nuclear crisis is real and ongoing, yet the government continues to look the other way,” said Yoshiko Kira of the opposition Japan Communist Party, which made significant gains in parliamentary elections last month.
“核危机真实存在，而且正在继续发酵，政府却继续视而不见，”反对派政党日本共产党(Japan Communist Party)成员吉良芳子（Yoshiko Kira，音译）说，该党在上月的议会选举中取得了重大收获。
“The government should declare a state of emergency right now, and intervene to stop the outflow of contaminated water,” Ms. Kira said at an anti-nuclear rally outside Mr. Abe’s office in Tokyo.
“政府应该马上宣布进入紧急状态，进行干预，阻止污水外流，”吉良芳子在安倍晋三东京办公室外的一次反核集会上说。
Mr. Abe remains popular, and it is uncertain how large a liability the crisis at the Fukushima plant will become for him.
安倍晋三依然很受欢迎，目前尚不清楚，福岛核电站的危机会给他带来多大的麻烦。
But it has become increasingly clear that the latest problems may be too large for the plant’s operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, to handle.
但是，有一点已经变得越来越清楚，也就是说，最近的问题可能大得超出了发电站运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）的应对能力。
Tepco has built nearly 1,000 tanks at the sprawling complex to store as many as 335,000 tons of contaminated water, the product of coolant pumped into the reactors to keep their cores from overheating, and groundwater pouring into their breached basements at a rate of 400 tons a day. This week, Tepco said one tank had sprung a huge leak.
东电已经在面积广大的发电站修建了近1000个水槽，用来存放多达33.5万吨的污水，污水的来由是泵进反应堆用来防止堆芯过热的冷却剂，以及以每天400吨的速度涌入这些反应堆受损地下室的地下水。本周，东电称其中一个水槽发生了大规模泄漏。
On Friday, Tepco presented an even starker view of the situation, acknowledging that as much as 220,000 tons of that water is stored in makeshift steel tanks similar to the one that is leaking. The operator said the 36-foot-tall cylindrical tanks, meant as a temporary repository for the growing amount of radiated water at the complex, used vulnerable rubber sealing and that their ability to withstand radiation was not tested.
本周五，东电对局势发表了甚至更为严峻的看法，承认有多达22万吨污水被存储在临时钢槽内，这些钢槽和发生泄漏的那个钢槽类似。该运营商说，36英尺（约合11米）高的圆柱形钢槽是用来存储核电站内越来越多的放射性污水的临时设备，这种钢槽使用的是脆弱的橡胶密封件，水槽的放射耐受力未经测试。
The tanks are susceptible to leaks at the seams and through their concrete base, said Noriyuki Imaizumi, the acting general manager of Tepco’s nuclear power division. A nearby drain can carry any leaked water to the sea, Mr. Imaizumi said, and high radiation readings along a section suggest that water has already traveled through the drain to the ocean.
东电核能分部代理总经理今泉记之（Noriyuki Imaizumi，音译）说，钢槽的接缝和水泥基座易于发生泄漏。今泉记之说，临近的排水管道会把泄漏的污水通通排放入海，管道截面的高放射读数表明，污水已经通过排水管道进入大洋。
The makeshift tanks also lack water level gauges, making it difficult to detect leaks. Only two workers are assigned to checking nearly 1,000 tanks on two-hour patrols twice a day, Mr. Imaizumi said.
此外，临时钢槽没有配备水位计，这让人们难以察觉泄漏的发生。今泉记之说，东电只安排了两名工人检查近1000个钢槽，他们每天巡视两次，每次时长两小时。
The Nuclear Regulation Authority, which the Japanese government ordered to more actively advise and monitor Tepco’s activities at the plant, had told the company to begin transferring the water from the makeshift tanks to better-built vessels. But after visiting the plant on Friday, an authority commissioner, Toyoshi Fuketa, said the vast quantities made doing so quickly “unrealistic.”
日本政府要求原子能管制委员会(Nuclear Regulation Authority)对东电在核电站的活动提出更加积极的建议，进行更加积极的监控，委员会已经要求东电开始把临时钢槽内的污水转入建造得更好的容器。然而，周五走访该核电站之后，官方专员更田豊志(Toyoshi Fuketa)说，污水数量太过庞大，致使迅速的转移行动变得“不现实”。
A series of pits Tepco dug to store some of the water also began leaking earlier this year, forcing workers to transfer the water into the steel tanks.
今年早些时候，东电挖掘的一系列存储部分污水的深坑也开始发生泄漏，迫使工人们把污水转入钢槽。
Experts have said they suspect that more contaminated water is seeping out from under the melted-down reactors into the groundwater and the Pacific. Elevated levels of radioactive cesium in surrounding waters seem to confirm those suspicions.
专家们已经表示，他们怀疑，更多的污水正在从熔化的反应堆之下渗入地下水和太平洋之中。在核电站附近的水里，铯辐射浓度有所上升，这一点似乎确认了专家们的怀疑。
Tepco has said those leaks are not directly from beneath the reactors, but from maintenance tunnels that run along the coast and remain contaminated from the early days of the disaster.
东电已经表示，被泄漏的污水并不是直接源自反应堆之下，而是源自维修隧道，这些隧道沿着海岸修筑，自灾难发生早期就已受到污染，并且未得清理。
But it also acknowledges that the water beneath the reactors is extremely contaminated, and experts say that if it does get into the ocean, it will surpass even the leaks that occurred in the disaster’s early days.
不过，东电也承认，反应堆下面的水受到了极其严重的污染。专家说，如果这些水确实进入了海洋，其污染性甚至将超过灾难早期泄漏入海的污水。
“That prospect scares me,” Michio Aoyama, a senior scientist in the Oceanography and Geochemistry Research Department at the government-affiliated Meteorological Research Institute, said in an interview this month.
气象研究所(Meteorological Research Institute)海洋学和地球化学研究部的资深科学家青山道夫(Michio Aoyama)在本月的一次采访中说，“这种前景让我害怕。”该研究所隶属于政府。