TOKYO — Few companies in Japan have conveyed respectability like Toshiba, the sprawling industrial conglomerate that, to the surprise of many here, has found itself at the center of one of the country’s largest accounting scandals.
东京——业务遍及各处的企业集团东芝公司，出乎许多人意料地身陷日本最大的会计丑闻之一。没有几家公司在日本享有东芝这样的名望。
Toshiba’s chief executives have for decades sat at the apex of Japan’s establishment — civic leaders as much as business managers, in many people’s eyes. One boss from the 1990s went on to run the Tokyo Stock Exchange, then the national postal system. The company features on a prominent index of businesses thought to combine profitability with clean, modern corporate governance.
数十年来，在许多人眼里，东芝公司的社长一直站在日本权势集团的顶端，无论是在企业界，还是全社会中。90年代的一名社长后来负责运营东京证券交易所(Tokyo Stock Exchange)，继而掌管了全国邮政系统。这家公司以杰出的商业指标为特色，集获利、廉洁与现代化的公司治理为一身。
On Tuesday, in defiance of that image, the chief executive and two of his predecessors resigned, along with several lesser executives, over accusations that they drove the company to overstate its earnings by $1.2 billion over the last seven years. The figure is equal to about a third of the pretax profits that Toshiba reported during that period.
然而一反公司形象的是，由于面临在过去七年虚报12亿美元（约合76亿元人民币）的公司收益的指控，包括现任社长在内的三任社长在周二带领数名位阶较低的高层辞职。他们虚报的数字，等同于东芝公司七年来呈报的税前利润的三分之一。
“Toshiba has a 140-year history and was like a straight-A student when it came to corporate governance,” said Shin Ushijima, a lawyer who serves as president of the Corporate Governance Network, a watchdog group. “Toshiba shares are in everyone’s pension plans. Executives’ responsibility is extremely heavy.”
“东芝公司有140年历史，曾是公司治理方面的优等生，”监督团体“企业治理网络”(Corporate Governance Network)理事长牛岛信律师(Shin Ushijima)表示。“国人的退休金里都有东芝股票。公司高层的责任极为重大。”
The Toshiba scandal has raised questions about efforts by the Japanese government to improve corporate governance and culture.
日本政府改善企业治理与公司文化的努力，也因为东芝的丑闻而受到质疑。
Last year, the government introduced a new set of guidelines for managers and institutional investors. Superficially, Toshiba met or surpassed most of its provisions, which cover things like the number of independent directors companies are expected to employ.
去年，日本政府针对企业管理层与机构投资者引进了一套新的准则。东芝公司在表面上符合乃至超越了大多数标准。这些准则中包括公司应该聘用的独立董事的人数。
“Toshiba satisfied the formalities of the code, but not the quality,” said Toshiaki Oguchi, a governance expert who helped the government create the guidelines. He noted that two of Toshiba’s four outside directors — twice the number the code recommends — were former diplomats, with little to no experience overseeing commercial enterprises. “It’s not about quantity,” he said.
“东芝公司形式上满足了准则，但实际上并非如此，”协助设立准则的公司治理专家尾口俊明（Toshiaki Oguchi，音)表示。他指出，东芝公司虽然聘用了四名外部董事，人数是准则要求的两倍，但其中两名曾任外交官的董事几乎没有管理商业企业的经验。“人数不是重点，”他说。
Doubts about Toshiba’s financial reporting have grown since April, when the company, prompted by an investigation by financial regulators, said it was examining possible accounting inaccuracies in one of its divisions. An internal investigation initially found tens of millions of dollars of bookkeeping discrepancies — and the amount quickly ballooned.
由于财务监管部门的调查，东芝于今年4月宣布正在审核旗下一个部门可能存在的会计误差。自那以后，外界对东芝公司的财务报表的不信任感不断加深。内部调查最初发现，帐目有数千万美元的不一致，而这个数字后来又快速膨胀。
On Monday, a committee of independent experts hired by Toshiba said it had found an additional 151 billion yen, or $1.2 billion, of overstated earnings. There were problems in virtually all corners of its business, which encompasses products stretching from refrigerators to nuclear power plants.
本周一，由东芝公司聘请的第三方专家组成的委员会表示，他们发现公司虚报了1510亿日元的收益。这家业务范围从冰箱到核电厂无所不包的公司，几乎所有部门都涉及这个问题。
Senior executives were singled out for blame. The committee said it had discovered “systematic involvement, including by top management, with the goal of intentionally inflating the appearance of net profits.” Toshiba financial officials, it said, had “deliberately provided insufficient explanations to auditors, with the intention of carrying out a systematic cover-up.”
公司高层因此成为抨击的对象。委员会表示他们发现“包括最高层在内的管理层有系统地涉及此事，目的是故意夸大净利润。”委员会表示，东芝的财务官员“刻意系统性地掩饰此事，蓄意不向审计人员充分说明情况。”
At a news conference at Toshiba’s headquarters attended by several hundred journalists and financial analysts, Hisao Tanaka, the current chief executive, bowed deeply in a show of remorse. “I apologize from my heart to all our stakeholders,” he said. He acknowledged that the company had engaged in “inappropriate accounting,” but said it had not done so intentionally, and that he had not told subordinates to exaggerate the profitability of their divisions.
有数百名记者与财经分析人士出席了东芝公司总部举办的新闻发布会。现任社长田中久雄(Hisao Tanaka)在会上深深鞠躬，表示自责。“由衷对各位股东感到抱歉，”他说。他承认公司涉及“不当会计行为”，但称并非故意，他也没有要求部属夸大各自部门的收益。
The resignations removed half of Toshiba’s 16-member board. Along with Mr. Tanaka, Norio Sasaki, Mr. Tanaka’s immediate predecessor as chief executive, who is now Toshiba’s vice chairman, is also stepping down. Mr. Sasaki’s predecessor, Atsutoshi Nishida, will cede his nonexecutive position as senior adviser. Toshiba’s chairman, Masashi Muromachi, will take over as president and chief executive until a new leader is appointed in September.
东芝公司16名董事中有半数辞职，其中包括田中久雄本人，以及两任前社长——目前担任副会长的佐佐木则夫(Norio Sasaki)，以及担任非执行资深顾问的西田厚聪(Atsutoshi Nishida)。东芝公司会长室町正志(Masashi Muromachi)则暂代社长一职，直到九月份聘任新社长为止。
Toshiba’s share price had tumbled more than 25 percent since the admission in April. Shares rose more than 6 percent on Tuesday.
自4月承认虚报以来，东芝公司的股价下跌了25%。周二的股价则回升了逾6%。
Toshiba said it was only beginning to look at ways to reshape the company to prevent a recurrence. As a first step, the company said it would put one of its other independent directors, Hiroyuki Itami, the former head of the commerce department at Hitotsubashi University, in charge of its audit committee. Critics, including the investigating panel, have pointed to the fact that the committee had been headed by longtime Toshiba insiders as potentially contributing to the accounting problems.
东芝自称才刚刚开始考虑公司的改革方式，以防止类似事件再次发生。公司表示，首先将让另一名独立董事、一桥大学(Hitotsubashi University)前商学部部长伊丹敬之(Hiroyuki Itami)执掌审计委员会。包括调查委员会在内的批评人士指出，审计委员会长期由东芝内部人士领导这个事实，可能是出现相关会计问题的原因之一。
Mr. Oguchi said the drive to improve corporate governance had largely focused on increasing profitability, rather than preventing malfeasance. Japanese companies, especially big and established ones like Toshiba, have long been seen to tolerate low profits in the name of social harmony, by putting off painful decisions such as closing down or selling money-losing divisions.
尾口俊明表示，之前改善企业治理的行动主要集中在增加收益上，而非预防不当行为。长期以来，日本公司，特别是像东芝这样的大型知名企业，一直被外界认为以社会和谐的名义容忍低利润，方式是推迟痛苦的抉择，如关闭或出售亏损业务。
The code, Mr. Oguchi said, was intended in part to change that tendency, by making managers more accountable to investors. The stock index that promoted Toshiba’s supposed strengths — the JPX Nikkei 400 — was introduced last year, emphasizing what it said was mutual support between strict management oversight and high investor returns.
尾口俊明称，前述准则的部分意图是，通过让管理人员对投资者更负责的方式，来改变这种趋势。去年推出的JPX日经股价指数400(JPX Nikkei 400)宣传的，正是人们以为的东芝的优势。该指数强调，严格的管理监督和高投资回报之间相辅相成。 
The company’s problems, the investigative panel found, date to the economic slump set off by the global financial crisis in 2008. Even as demand for Toshiba’s products fell, top executives insisted that managers meet increasingly difficult profit goals, according to its report. Under pressure, many resorted to accounting gimmicks and shortcuts, the committee said.
调查委员会发现，东芝公司的问题可追溯至2008年全球金融危机引发的经济滑坡。从委员会的报告来看，就在对东芝产品的需求降低之时，高管还坚持要求经理达到难度与日俱增的利润目标。委员会称，在压力下，很多人借助于在账目上耍花招和走捷径。
The committee accused Toshiba of breeding “a corporate culture where it is impossible to go against one’s bosses’ wishes.”
该委员会指责东芝培养了“一种不可能违背上司意愿的企业文化”。