DONGGUAN, China — His cellphone is not ringing. His online chat programs sit idle. His condoms stay wrapped. People are no longer approaching Denny to pay for sex.
中国东莞——他的手机悄然无声，网聊程序闲置着，保险套没有开封。不再有人来找丹尼(Denny)买春了。
“In Dongguan, we have something called Dongguan-style service,” the young man with dyed brown hair said as he sat in a hotel restaurant, agreeing to speak on the condition that only his English nickname be used. “It’s the sex capital. It has a reputation. It’s as if you have ISO 9000 certification” — a reference to an international quality standard for service industries of all kinds.
“在东莞，我们有‘莞式服务’，”他说。这名头发染成棕色的年轻人坐在一家酒店的餐厅里，以只公布他的英文别名为条件接受了采访。“这里是性都，名头很响。就像有ISO 9000认证。”这种认证指的是适用于各种服务行业的国际质量标准。
“Now it’s all stopped,” he said.
“现在都停掉了，”他说。
China is in the throes of the harshest anti-vice campaign the government has mounted in years, and the crackdown is taking a toll on the economy of Dongguan, a southern city of more than eight million people. It is a manufacturing center for the export business and a Mecca for migrant workers, but it is also the nation’s sin city. Now, the red-light industry here is blushing a deep pink.
中国政府发起了多年来最为严厉的扫黄打黑风暴，而这种严打对人口逾800万的南方都市东莞的经济造成了严重损害。东莞是出口企业的制造中心、外来打工者的圣地，不过也是中国的罪恶都市。现如今，这里的红灯区产业褪了色。
Nightclubs and massage parlors, whether in five-star hotels or shadowy alleys, have been shuttered. Taxi drivers who once thrived on commissions from brothels are grappling with shrinking wallets. Some landlords are having a hard time renting out apartments, as prostitutes leave town or decide not to return from Lunar New Year vacations.
夜店和按摩院，无论是坐落在五星级饭店里，还是在阴暗的小巷中，一律大门紧闭。曾经能从妓院里拿到丰厚回扣的出租司机，如今因为不断缩水的荷包而苦苦挣扎。一些房东难以将公寓租出去，因为性工作者离开了东莞，或是农历新年假期后决定不再回来。
So severe is the crackdown, and so large is the sex industry in Dongguan, that police officials in nearby Hong Kong have expressed worries about a potential flood of displaced prostitutes arriving there.
由于严打的力度极大、东莞性产业的规模又相当庞大，地理位置接近的香港的警方表达了忧虑，担心离开东莞的性工作者会蜂拥至香港。
The campaign appears to be the latest element in a broad push by President Xi Jinping, the chief of the Communist Party, to expunge the image of corruption associated with Chinese officials.
这场严打似乎是党的总书记、国家主席习近平发起的一系列运动的最新篇章，而这些运动的目的是让中国官员与腐败形象绝缘。
The Public Security Ministry in Beijing pledged last month to strike a blow against the “three vices” — prostitution, gambling and drug use — but the focus of the crackdown is obviously on sex for sale.
北京的公安部上月开展了打击“黄赌毒”的专项行动，不过显然严打的重点是性交易。
International brand-name hotels have not been spared. The local Sheraton has a foot massage parlor on the fifth floor that has been shut down, and the spa next to it has police seals on its doors. (A manager at the Sheraton said an outside company ran the spa, though a call to the spa’s phone number was answered by the Sheraton’s guest services department.)
国际连锁酒店也未能幸免。东莞喜来登大酒店(Sheraton)五层的按摩中心停业，旁边的桑拿部的门上贴有警方的封条。（喜来登的一名经理表示，桑拿部由外部机构运营。不过，接听桑拿部电话的是喜来登的客户服务部。）
The Ministry of Public Security has ordered police departments across China to carry out similar clampdowns. A joke making the rounds goes that to curb a recent surge in bird flu Mr. Xi said “get rid of chickens,” but the order was accidentally sent to the Public Security Ministry instead of the Health Ministry and police officials thought that meant go after prostitutes.
公安部下令全国公安机关开展类似的专向打击整治活动。有一则流传的笑话说，为了遏制近期的禽流感疫情，习近平要求“把鸡都抓起来”，却把下达给卫生部的命令误发到了公安部，于是警方认为要去打击性工作者。
So far, the biggest political casualty has been the Dongguan police chief, Yan Xiaokang, who has been dismissed and put under investigation. But it is the prostitutes who are facing the harshest consequences.
迄今为止，政治上付出最大代价的是东莞公安局长严小康。他被免职，并在接受调查。然而，面临最严厉后果的却是性工作者。
“This is the most serious campaign so far,” said a friend of Denny’s, a male prostitute with a trucker cap and black painted fingernails. “It’s the same everywhere, so we can’t even go to other cities.”
“这是打得最狠的一次，”丹尼的一名朋友说。他是名男性性工作者，戴着嘻哈帽，手指上涂着黑色指甲油。“哪里都一样，所以我们连去别的地方都不行。”
Before the crackdown, Denny’s friend said, he could make more than $100 on a good night. But he is now wary of contact from potential clients because they may be police officers “fishing” for people to arrest, and the clients have the same fears about making contact.
丹尼的朋友表示，严打之前，生意好的时候他可以一晚上挣600元以上。但是现在，他对来自潜在客户的联络忧心忡忡，怕是警察“钓鱼”抓人。客户也对主动联络存在同样的顾虑。
Early in the campaign, on Feb. 10, the Dongguan police announced that they had inspected nearly 2,000 entertainment sites in the city, had found 39 of them to be “yellow venues” (yellow is a slang term in China for erotic), and had arrested 162 people. In the first six days, according to the Security Ministry’s website, more than 2,400 yellow venues across the country were shut, 73 prostitution rings were broken and more than 500 people were detained.
严打行动的早期，东莞警方于2月10日宣布，在检查了近2000家娱乐场所后，发现有39家“涉黄”。（“黄”在中文俚语中意为色情），拘捕了162人。根据公安部网站的说法，在头六天里，全国各地停业整顿涉黄场所2400余家，打掉涉黄团伙73个，抓获逾500人。
The sex industry is more developed in Dongguan than in other Chinese cities, according to scholars, prostitutes here and the program on China Central Television, which drew wide criticism for showing prostitutes without obscuring their faces.
学者、东莞的性工作者，以及中央电视台的一档节目均认为，东莞的性产业在中国各大城市中最为发达。由于没有在画面中遮盖性工作者的脸，中央电视台的节目受到广泛批评。
Clubs give customers menus of dozens of services, some with names that have typically Chinese poetic flourishes (“phoenix rising from the bath”). Two hours with a woman in an upscale site typically costs 1,000 renminbi, or about $160. A client can hire a prostitute to be an exclusive lover: A help-wanted advertisement posted on streets in the Houjie area said that the worker could earn $1,640 to $4,900 a month. The same ad said a “room princess” — a woman who plies clients with drinks in karaoke clubs — could make $1,300 a month plus tips. The clientele extends beyond the mainland: Businesspeople from Taiwan and other parts of Asia often include a Dongguan stop on their China trips.
这里的夜店为客户提供数十种服务选项，其中一些带有典型的中式诗情画意（“出浴凤凰”）。在高档场所与一名女性共度两小时的典型价格为1000元人民币。客人还可以包养情人：厚街地区的街上贴着的一张招聘广告上称，每个月可以赚取1万到3万元人民币。同一张广告上还写着，“包房公主”——在卡拉OK陪酒的女性——可以月入8000，外加小费。顾客不止来自大陆：台湾等亚洲地区的商人在中国之旅的途中，往往会在东莞停留。
“I don’t think Dongguan has the most prostitutes or the most expensive ones, but it definitely has the most advanced and the most mature sex industry,” said Ai Xiaoming, a literature professor and gender studies scholar at Zhongshan University in Guangzhou, the provincial capital.
“我想，东莞的色情服务人数不是最多，价格也不是最贵，但性产业的确是最发达、最成熟的，”中山大学中文系教授、性别研究学者艾晓明说。中山大学位于东莞所在省的省会广州。
At the clubs along the strip east of downtown known as Bar Street, business is nonexistent. The doors have all been sealed with strips of white paper bearing police stamps dated Feb. 14 — Valentine’s Day. One recent afternoon, dozens of young employees of one club, Vee Plus, gathered outside its doors hoping to pick up back pay.
在市中心的东城区酒吧街，沿街的夜店生意全无。所有的大门都被贴上了白色封条，上面印着公安局查封的日期为2月14日，也就是情人节当天。不久前的一个下午，坊桂兰(Vee Plus)的几十个年轻雇员集体坐在店门口，希望能讨回欠薪。
“In Dongguan, two out of five people will lose their jobs if the situation doesn’t return to normal,” said Lin Yadong, a club manager, who wore a blue scarf and stiletto boots. A woman next to her said, “If we don’t reopen, how will we eat?” Others nodded.
“情况不恢复正常，东莞五个人里头就有两个要失业，”夜店经理林雅东（音译）说。她戴着蓝色围巾，脚蹬细高跟靴。身旁的一名女性则说，“我们不重新开张，吃什么？”其他人点头赞同。
Ms. Lin said the club employed more than 70 people, and that customers came to drink, play dice and listen to the D.J., not to pay for sex.
林女士称，这家夜店有七十多名员工，客人来喝酒、玩骰子、听DJ放音乐，并没有性交易。
At the Cannes, a rival club, an accountant who gave only his surname, Huang, said the crackdown was “a real pain — no one knows whether to go home or stay, or go somewhere else to look for work.”
竞争对手康城酒吧(Cannes)的一名会计说，严打“很烦——谁也不知道是回家、留下来，还是去别的地方找工作。”此人只肯透露姓黄。
“The government is trying to figure out what to do with the industry,” he added. “They’re reshuffling the cards.”
“政府在想，拿这个产业怎么办，”他还说，“他们在重新洗牌。”
A manager at the BB Club estimated that the shutdown was costing his business about $10,000 a day in expenses and lost revenue. “The government did this for secret reasons,” he said, and then quickly ushered a foreign reporter from the building as officials from the local culture bureau walked in for an inspection.
BB Club的一名经理估计，算上开销和损失的收入，关停让他的生意每天损失6万元。“政府这么干，是有秘密的原因的，”他说。得知当地文化局的官员进来检查，他马上把外国记者带出了大楼。
A private driver said the city’s hotels and clubs would not be viable without the sex industry. “Who goes to a bar if there are no girls?” he said. “You can’t keep the alcohol down if there are no girls to drink with.” The driver, who gave only his surname, Liu, said that he sometimes made $120 a night in commissions from brothels for bringing clients to them. “It’s affected all drivers,” he said of the crackdown. “I’ll just have to be more frugal.”
一名个体司机表示，没有性产业，东莞的酒店和夜店不会蓬勃发展。“没有姑娘的话，谁还去酒吧啊？”他说。“没有姑娘一起，酒都喝不下去。”这名司机只肯透露自己姓刘。他表示，通过介绍客人，他有时一晚上可以从色情场所赚700元回扣。谈及严打，他说，“所有司机都受影响的。我只好节俭一点。”
From beneath the armrest in his car, Mr. Liu produced a pile of fliers with photographs of naked women, phone numbers and lists of services. He said that he knew a man from Singapore who had paid for sex with five women at once. These days, he said, a client would be lucky to get the services of even one woman in Dongguan.
刘先生从车座扶手下面拿出了一叠传单，上面印着裸女图片、电话号码和服务清单。他说他认识一个新加坡男人，一次点了“五朵金花”，而这段时间，能在东莞找到一个女人服务就算是走运了。