For nearly 60 years, a small painting with swirls and splotches of red, black and silver has stood as a symbol of enmity between two women: Lee Krasner, Jackson Pollock’s widow, and Ruth Kligman, his lover.
在将近60年的时间里，一张涂着红色、黑色和银色弧线和斑点的小画一直象征着两个女人之间的仇恨：她们是杰克逊·波洛克(Jackson Pollock)的遗孀李·克拉斯纳(Lee Krasner)和他的情人露丝·克利格曼(Ruth Kligman)。
Until her death, in 2010, Ms. Kligman, herself an artist, insisted the painting was a love letter to her created by Pollock in the summer of 1956, just weeks before he died in a car crash. But the painting was rejected by an expert panel set up to authenticate and catalog all of Pollock’s works by a foundation established by Ms. Krasner.
同为艺术家的克利格曼直到2010年过世前，都一直坚称这幅画是波洛克1956年夏为了表达他对自己的爱而创作的；这幅作品完成几周之后，波洛克死于车祸。但是，这幅画的真伪如今却遭到了一个专家组的质疑。这个专家组是克拉斯纳创立的基金会组织的，负责对所有波洛克作品进行鉴定并登记造册。
This month, it seemed the dispute that outlived both women might finally be settled. Ms. Kligman’s estate announced that forensic tests — comparing samples from the loafers Pollock died in, his rugs and his backyard — had linked the painting with Pollock and his home.
这个两位女士去世后还在继续的争议，本月似乎终于要得到解决了。克利格曼的遗产代理人宣布，通过对比波洛克去世时穿的鞋、他的地毯和后院的样本，司法鉴定认为，这幅画与波洛克和他家有关。
But instead of resolving one dispute, the findings only reignited another, one that pits traditional ways of determining whether a work is genuine against newer technologies.
然而，这些发现不仅没有解决问题，反而引起了另一个问题，这个问题突显了鉴定作品真伪的传统方法与新技术之间的矛盾。
On one side stands Francis V. O’Connor, a stately Old World-style connoisseur with a Vandyke beard and curled mustache, who believes erudition and a practiced eye are essential to judging authenticity. Mr. O’Connor, a co-editor of the definitive Pollock catalog and a member of the now-disbanded Pollock-Krasner Foundation authentication committee, said “Red, Black and Silver” does not look like a Pollock.
争议的一方的是弗朗西斯·V·奥康纳(Francis V. O’Connor)，一位严肃的老派鉴赏家，蓄着范戴克式的山羊胡和翘八字须；他认为，博学和眼力对于辨别真伪至关重要。奥康纳是权威的波洛克作品名录的联合编辑，也是业已解散的波洛克-克拉斯纳基金会(Pollock-Krasner Foundation)鉴定委员会的成员之一。他说，《红、黑和银》(Red, Black and Silver)看起来根本不像波洛克的作品。
“I don’t think there’s a Pollock expert in world that would look at that painting and agree it was a Pollock,” Mr. O’Connor said at a symposium this month.
本月，奥康纳在一次讨论会上说，“我不认为世界上有哪位波洛克专家在看过这幅画后，会认同它出自波洛克之手。”
On the other side is Nicholas D. K. Petraco, a retired New York City detective and forensics specialist who examined the painting at the request of the Kligman estate. Approaching the canvas board as if it were a body at a crime scene, Mr. Petraco said he had no doubt the painting was made at the Pollock house and is linked to Pollock.
争议的另一方是尼古拉斯·D·K·彼得拉科(Nicholas D. K. Petraco)，一名已经退休的纽约侦探和司法鉴定专家，他应克利格曼遗产代理人的要求对这幅画进行了鉴定。彼得拉科对待画作的方式就像在处理犯罪现场的尸体一样，他说他确信这幅画是在波洛克的房子里完成的，而且与波洛克有关。
“I’ve had cases with less materials than this where people are spending 25 to 30 years in jail,” he said.
他说，“我办过材料比这还少的案子，有人被判了25到30年徒刑。”
As technology advances, the art world has turned to microscopic analysis and pigment testing to buttress — or challenge — the judgments of a tiny club of experts whose opinions have long been treated as law. This pursuit of scientific validation has only deepened as art historians and institutions like the Pollock-Krasner Foundation, which shut down its authentication board in 1996, retreat from certifying art for fear of being sued.
随着科技进步，艺术世界开始采用显微分析和颜料检测来肯定——或否定——少数专家的判断。长期以来，这些人的观点一直被当做金科玉律。随着艺术史学家以及波洛克-克拉斯纳基金会这样的机构因为担心被起诉而不再鉴定艺术品，科学审定的做法就更加受认可了。波洛克-克拉斯纳基金会已于1996年将其鉴定委员会关闭。
But science has its limits. Paint or paper may help establish the date of a work, while hair and fibers can help pinpoint where it was made. A work’s provenance must also be verified. Still, connoisseurs — as well as most auction houses who rely on them — maintain that true authorship cannot be established without an expert evaluation of the composition and individual strokes that reveal an artist’s “signature.”
但是，科学也存在局限性。颜料和纸张或许能帮我们确定作品的时间，而头发和纤维则有助于确定创作地点。作品的传承来历也必须进行确认。然而，鉴赏家——以及依赖于这些鉴赏家的大多数拍卖行——都认为，如果一幅作品不经过专家对其构图和能透露艺术家“个人标记”的笔触进行评判，就不能确定该作品的真正作者。
In this case, the difference of opinion could be worth millions. Unauthenticated, “Red, Black and Silver” would be listed as “attributed to Pollock” and carry an estimate of no more than $50,000, said Patricia G. Hambrecht, chief business development officer at Phillips auction house, where the painting is consigned. If judged a Pollock, the painting’s estimated value would soar to seven figures, she said.
在这个案例中，意见的分歧事关数百万美元。如果无法鉴定为波洛克的作品，《红、黑和银》就会被标注上“据信系波洛克所作”，估价不会超过5万美元（约合30.5万元人民币），这幅作品的委托机构菲利普斯拍卖行(Phillips)的首席业务发展官帕特里夏·G·汉布雷克特(Patricia G. Hambrecht)说。她说，如果这幅画确认出自波洛克，它的估价就将一下子涨到七位数。
Ms. Kligman’s account of the painting dates to the summer of 1956 when she was 26 and living in Pollock’s house in East Hampton, N.Y., after Krasner, having caught the lovers together, sailed for Europe. Pollock was in an alcoholic tailspin and hadn’t painted in two years. As Ms. Kligman detailed in a new introduction to the 1999 edition of her memoir, “Love Affair: A Memoir of Jackson Pollock,” the artist was on the lawn when she brought him his paint and the sticks he used. After he finished, he said, “Here’s your painting, your very own Pollock.”
据克利格曼讲述，这幅画创作于1956年夏，她当时26岁，住在波洛克位于纽约州伊斯特汉普顿的家中。之前，克拉斯纳在发现他们二人在一起后就去了欧洲。波洛克当时喝醉了，而且已有两年未曾作画。克利格曼在她为回忆录《情事：回忆杰克逊·波洛克》(Love Affair: A Memoir of Jackson Pollock)的1999年版撰写的序言中给出了细节，波洛克当时在草坪上，她给波洛克拿来他用过的颜料和画笔。完成创作后，波洛克说，“送给你，这是你的波洛克。”
A friend of Ms. Kligman’s, Bette Waldo Benedict, has said Ms. Kligman told her the same story at the time.
克利格曼的朋友贝特·沃尔多·贝内迪克特(Bette Waldo Benedict)说，克利格曼当时也是这么告诉她的。
Art forensics have primarily concentrated on what a painting is made of. But Mr. Petraco, who has decades of experience with the New York Police Department crime lab and is now a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, looked at what the painting contained: the dust, hairs, fibers or other detritus that might have fallen on the surface and under the paint.
艺术品司法鉴定主要关注的一直是画作的材料。但是，在纽约警察局刑案实验室工作了数十年的约翰·杰刑事司法学院(John Jay College of Criminal Justice)教授彼得拉科关注的则是画作所包含的东西：灰尘、头发、纤维或其他可能会掉到油彩表面和下面的碎屑。
Because Mr. Petraco, who holds a Ph.D. in theoretical chemistry, has more experience analyzing red blood than red paint, he decided to perfect his technique for removing materials without damaging the painting by making some Pollock-like drip paintings in his backyard in Massapequa Park, on Long Island. (It’s tougher than it looks, he confessed.)
彼得拉科有一个理论化学博士学位，他分析鲜红血液的经验要比分析红色颜料丰富许多。他决定完善自己在不破坏画作的情况下提取物质的技巧，所以在自己位于长岛麦萨皮奎公园的后院里制作了一些仿波洛克的滴画。（他承认，这比想象中的难度要大。）
Despite what one sees on television crime shows, hairs and threads cannot be traced to a specific individual or sweater, Mr. Petraco said. What builds a forensic case is not any single piece of evidence but a combination of consistent factors. In this case, Mr. Petraco said the clincher was discovering a polar bear hair, a rare find in a country that has banned the import of polar bear products for more than 40 years.
彼得拉科说，不管那些罪案剧怎么演，其实根本无法确定头发是谁的，或者丝线来自哪件毛衣。痕检不能只依靠某个单独的证据得出结论，而是各种一致因素的结合。彼得拉科说，这个案例的关键是发现了一根北极熊的毛，因为美国禁止北极熊产品进口已长达40余年，所以这个发现比较罕见。
“Is there a polar bear in this story?” Mr. Petraco wondered.
彼得拉科想，“这个故事跟北极熊有关吗？”
There was. A polar bear rug that had adorned the living room floor in 1956 was still in the East Hampton attic.
确实有。1956年伊斯特汉普顿起居室里的一块北极熊皮地毯，至今还放在屋子的阁楼里。
In Mr. O’Connor’s view, “the Kligman work is in limbo with respect to authenticity.”
在奥康纳看来，“这幅克利格曼画的真伪是悬而未决的。”
Whether it remains that way is an open question: After all, precisely what happened between two people, now dead, who were alone on a summer afternoon in an East Hampton yard 57 years ago may ultimately be beyond the ken of science or connoisseurship.
它会不会一直处在这样的状态，目前还不得而知：毕竟那是在57年前，两个现已过世的人在伊斯特汉普顿的院子里单独度过了一个夏日的午后，他们之间究竟发生了什么，或许根本不在科学或鉴赏家的所知范围之内。