WASHINGTON — For the Republicans who despise President Obama’s health care law, the last few weeks should have been a singular moment to turn its botched rollout into an argument against it. Instead, in a futile campaign to strip the law of federal money, the party focused harsh scrutiny on its own divisions, hurt its national standing and undermined its ability to win concessions from Democrats. Then they surrendered almost unconditionally.
华盛顿——对蔑视奥巴马总统医改法案(health care law)的共和党人而言，过去几周本来是一个独一无二的机会，他们本可以趁机把自己的失败行动变成一场反对医改法案的论战。然而，在一场撤销联邦预算法案的徒劳行动中，共和党把精力集中在了对内部分歧的严密监控上，由此伤害了该党在国内的地位，削弱了自己迫使民主党妥协的能力。然后，他们几乎无条件地投了降。
“If you look back in time and evaluate the last couple of weeks, it should be titled ‘The Time of Great Lost Opportunity,’ ” said Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, among the many Republicans who argued that support for the health care law would collapse once the public saw how disastrous it really was.
许多共和党人提出，一旦公众充分见识了医改法案的灾难性后果，对医改法案的支持就会烟消云散。支持这一见解的南卡罗来纳州参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)说，“如果回顾过去，评估一下过去的几周，你应该把它称为‘错失良机的时刻’。”
“It has been the best two weeks for the Democratic Party in recent times because they were out of the spotlight and didn’t have to showcase their ideas,” Mr. Graham added.
格雷厄姆还说，“这是近期以来民主党日子最好过的两周，因为他们失去了大众的关注，不必展示他们的观点。”
Now, near the end of a governing crisis that crippled Washington and dismayed a nation already deeply cynical about its political leaders, Republicans are struggling to answer even the most basic questions about the cause and effect of what has transpired over the last few weeks.
这场治理危机让政府陷入瘫痪，让对政治领袖们已经深怀不满的民众沮丧不已。危机即将结束之时，共和党人甚至难于回答那些最为基本的问题，也就是说，笼罩过去几周的情况因何而起，会造成什么后果。
They disagree over how, or even whether, they might grow from the experience. Many could not comprehend how they failed to prevent such avoidable, self-inflicted wounds. Others could not explain why it took so much damage, to their party and the millions of people inconvenienced and worse by the shutdown, to end up right where so many of them expected.
对自己如何从此次经历获得成长，甚至是能否获得成长，共和党人见解不一。许多人都不能理解，他们为何没能防止这种可以避免的自我戕害。另一些人则无法解释，他们当中的许多人已经预料到今天的结局，为什么依然要经历如此巨大的伤害才走到这一步，受到伤害的不仅是共和党，还有政府停摆殃及的数百万民众。
“Someone would have to explain that to me,” said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. “I knew how it was going to end,” he added.
亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)说，“必须得有人给个说法。”他还说，“我早就知道，这件事会如何收场。”
“I’m trying to forget it,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, still in disbelief that many of her fellow Republicans could not grasp that this was a losing battle. “Here we are. Here we are. We predicted it. Nobody wanted it to be this way.”
阿拉斯加州共和党参议员丽莎·穆尔科斯基(Lisa Murkowski)说，“我正在设法忘记此事。我们竟然落到了这一步。我们预见了这种局面，没人想把事情搞成这样。”她至今仍然不能相信，她的许多共和党同事竟然没有意识到，这是一场必败无疑的争斗。
All the while, they had the public on their side on the other issues that they could have litigated in the court of public opinion, like the need to get control of the nation’s long-term debt. And though they started the process last month with major advantages — a president on the defensive over an unsteady response to the war in Syria and an agreement by Democrats to keep financing the government at levels that many liberals felt were far too low — their fixation on the health care law prevented them from ever using their leverage.
自始至终，公众在其他一些议题上都站在共和党一边的，比如美国对长期债务加以控制的必要性，共和党完全可以在民意法庭上就这些议题向民主党叫板。上个月，共和党人开始行动时还占有重要的优势，因为总统当时处于守势，造成如此局面的是他在叙利亚战争问题上的摇摆反应，以及民主党提出的一项协议，许多自由派人士都认为，该协议对政府的财政支持力度太低了。然而，共和党人揪着医改法案不放，因此就始终未能动用手里的杠杆。
“We managed to divide ourselves on something we were unified on, over a goal that wasn’t achievable,” said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri. “The president probably had the worst August and early September any president could have had. And we managed to change the topic.”
密苏里州共和党参议员罗伊·布朗特(Roy Blunt)说，“为了一个不可能实现的目标，我们在一个曾经团结一致的议题上成功地分化了自己的党。8月和9月上旬，总统的日子也许比任何总统的同期经历都要难过。我们却成功地改变了议题。”
The question so crucial to the Republican Party’s viability now, heading into the 2014 Congressional elections and beyond, is whether it has been so stung by the fallout that the conservatives who insisted on leading this fight will shy away from doing so again in the months ahead when the government financing runs out and the debt limit again needs to be raised.
此时，以及即将来临的2014年国会选举季，甚至是更远的将来，对共和党生存无比关键的问题是，此次的惨痛结果是否足以让坚持主导这次战斗的保守派在未来的几个月里避免重蹈覆辙，届时，政府筹资权限会到期，债务上限将再次需要得到提高。
It is not an abstract question. The deal reached Wednesday would finance the government only through Jan. 15 and lift the debt ceiling through Feb. 7. Some top Republicans suggest that this confrontation, one some of the most conservative Tea Party-aligned Republicans have been itching for since they arrived, ended so badly for them that it would curb the appetite for another in just a few short months.
这不是一个抽象的问题。周三达成的协议将向政府提供资金，让其一直运行到1月15日，并将债务期限延长至2月7日。共和党部分高层表示，这次对峙的结局如此糟糕，可能会抑制在几个月后再进行一次对抗的欲望，尽管这次对峙是一些与茶党结盟的最保守共和党人到来以后一直渴望的事情。
Many Republicans are already calling for a refocusing of priorities, saying the party must turn to bigger issues like revising the unwieldy and unpopular tax code and reducing the long-term deficit. As for the health law, some believe there is a more winnable fight to be had with tough Congressional scrutiny of its rollout over the next year.
许多共和党人已经在呼吁重新调整优先事项，称共和党必须转向更重要的问题，比如修订复杂且不受欢迎的税则，削减长期赤字。至于医改法案，一些人相信，明年会有一场胜算更大的斗争，因为届时国会将严格审查法案的成效。
“Now we’re going to shift to oversight of the health care law, and clearly there are huge problems,” said Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who leads the powerful tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. “Now we’re going to have to pursue what is this law really doing for Americans. Is it working and is it delivering?”
“现在我们将转向医改法案的监督，其中显然存在大量问题，”密歇根州共和党众议员、掌握税则大权的筹款委员会(Ways and Means Committee)主席戴维·坎普(Dave Camp)说，“现在，我们必须追问，这项法案究竟为美国人带来了什么。它在起作用吗，在实现预期目标吗？”
Representative Adam Kinzinger, Republican of Illinois, said, “We can all take a deep breath and basically refocus.”
伊利诺伊州共和党众议员亚当·金青格(Adam Kinzinger)说，“我们所有人都可以深吸一口气，从根本上调整重点。”
In the Senate, there were already signs that an emergent group of 14 centrist senators from both parties was looking to make an impact on the fiscal battles ahead. The group, led by Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, has already planned to meet in the coming weeks. Mr. McCain, also a member, said Wednesday, “We are not going to let this kind of partisanship cripple this body and injure the American people.”
参议院已经有迹象表明，由两党14名中间派参议员临时组成的一个团体正在寻求对即将到来的财政斗争施加影响。该团体由缅因州共和党参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)和西弗吉尼亚州民主党参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)领导，已经计划在接下来的几周举行会议。作为该团体成员之一，麦凯恩周三表示，“我们不会让这种党派偏见破坏这个机构，伤害美国人民。”
Speaker John A. Boehner’s strategy always involved a gamble that his members would come away from this clash chastened. He intentionally allowed his most conservative members to sit in the driver’s seat as they tried in vain to get the Senate to accept one failed measure after another — first to defund the health care law, then to delay it, then to chip away at it. His hope was that they would realize the fight was not worth having again.
众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)的战略始终带有冒险的成分，赌他领导的成员会从这次争斗当中吸取教训。他故意让那些最保守的众议员坐上驾驶员的位置，任由他们徒劳地想让参议院接受一项又一项失败的提案，先是试图撤回用于医改法案的资金，然后是把医改法案延后，再后来是逐步削弱该法案。他希望他们会意识到，这种斗争不值得再次上演。
The worry among many Republicans is that the Tea Party flank will not get the message, mainly because their gerrymandered districts are so conservative they do not have to listen.
“许多共和党人担心的是，与茶党结盟的人不会明白这一点，这主要是因为他们重新分得的选区太过保守，以至于他们不必听取意见。
Some fear that history is repeating itself. After Mitt Romney’s defeat in which the Republicans lost the popular presidential vote for the fifth time in six elections, the party tried to regroup and its establishment warned that it had to stop being so shrill, so exclusionary and so narrowly focused on issues that alienate large chunks of voters who might otherwise think about being Republicans.
一些人担心历史重演。米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)的失败是共和党在六次选举中第五次失去多数总统选票，在此之后，共和党试图重组，其领导人警告称，共和党必须放弃如此尖锐排外的立场，不能继续死盯着那些疏远了大量本可能加入共和党的选民的问题。
Certainly, the budget fight showed that Congressional Republicans have divergent ideas about how to heed that advice.
当然，预算斗争表明，国会中的共和党人对如何听取这一建议意见不一。
On Wednesday, Representative Mick Mulvaney, Republican of South Carolina, offered his party advice for what it should do about the health care law come January and February.
周三，南卡罗来纳州共和党众议员米克·马尔瓦尼(Mick Mulvaney)向自己所在的政党提出了建议，内容是在1月和2月，共和党应该如何应对医改法案。
“The natural inclination is to say, no it’ll be exactly the same,” he said. “But if we can figure out a way to drive that message home that this is about fairness, this is about principle,” he added, “then the outcome may well be different.”
“你会本能地说，情况完全一样，”他说，“但如果我们能想出一个办法，把它事关公平和原则这一点说清楚，结果很可能会有所不同。”