WASHINGTON — With Congress momentarily freed from the Syrian crisis, lawmakers plunged back into their bitter fiscal standoff on Thursday as Speaker John A. Boehner appealed to the Obama administration and Democratic leaders to help him resolve divisions in the Republican ranks that could lead to a government shutdown by month’s end.
华盛顿——随着美国国会(Congress)于本周四从叙利亚危机中短暂地抽身，议员们重新投身到棘手的财政僵局中，众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)呼吁奥巴马政府和民主党领袖帮助他化解共和党内存在的分歧，这种分歧可能会导致政府在本月底停摆。
In meetings with Democratic and Republican Congressional leaders on Thursday after a session with Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew on Wednesday, Mr. Boehner sought a resumption of negotiations that could keep the government running and yield a deficit-reduction deal that would persuade recalcitrant conservatives to raise the government’s borrowing limit.
博纳于周三和财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)举行了会谈，随后又于周四会见了国会的民主党和共和党领袖，在会议上，博纳力争重启谈判，谈判的目的是维持政府运转，达成赤字削减协议，藉此劝说倔强的保守派议员同意提高政府的借款限额。
Much of the federal government will shut down as of Oct. 1 unless Congress approves new spending bills to replace expiring ones, and by mid-October, the Treasury Department will lose the borrowing authority to finance the government and pay its debts.
如果国会不批准以新的支出提案取代即将过期的协议，那么联邦政府的大部分机构都将在今年10月1日关闭，到10月中旬，财政部(Treasury Department)将丧失给政府提供资金及偿还债务的举债权。
“It’s time for the president’s party to show the courage to work with us to solve this problem,” said Mr. Boehner, who argued that budget deals have been part of past agreements to raise the debt limit
博纳说，“是时候了，总统的政党应该彰显出与我们合作以解决问题的勇气。”他提出预算协议本身就是此前就提高债务上限达成共识的一部分。
But a bloc of 43 House Republicans undercut the speaker’s deficit-reduction focus, introducing yearlong funding legislation that would increase Pentagon and veterans spending and delay President Obama’s health care law for a year — most likely adding to the budget deficit. That bloc is large enough to thwart any compromise that does not attract Democratic support.
然而，43名共和党众议员破坏了议长将注意力集中在赤字削减上的努力，他们推出了为期一年的筹资立法提案，该提案打算增加国防部和退伍老兵的支出，把奥巴马总统的医疗改革法案推后一年，而这极有可能增加预算赤字。这个群体的规模之大，足以阻止任何不能获取民主党支持的妥协。
“Obamacare is the most dangerous piece of legislation ever passed in Congress,” said Representative John Fleming, Republican of Louisiana. “It is the most existential threat to our economy” that the country has seen “since the Great Depression, so I think a little bit of additional deficit is nothing,” he added.
路易斯安那州共和党众议员约翰·弗莱明(John Fleming)说，“奥巴马医改法案(Obamacare)是国会有史以来通过的最危险的立法案。”他还说，该法案是“自大萧条(Great Depression)以来”，美国所面临的“最根本的经济威胁，所以，我认为，多一点额外的赤字不算什么。”
Just five scheduled legislative days stand between the House and a government shutdown that has loomed for months. As of now, Republican leaders appear to have no idea how to stop it. House members are preparing for the worst. Representative Scott Rigell, Republican of Virginia, began circulating a 14-page fact sheet on the impact of a government shutdown.
按计划，众议院还有五个工作日应对在过去数月里一直隐隐逼近的政府停摆问题。截至目前，共和党领袖似乎对如何避免政府停摆束手无策。众议员们正在为最坏的结果做准备。弗吉尼亚州共和党众议员斯科特·里格尔(Scott Rigell)开始分发一份14页的说明书，阐述政府关门的影响。
Mr. Lew and Congressional Democrats held firm that they would no longer negotiate on raising the debt ceiling, which they see as the duty of the party in power in the House. And they made it clear to the speaker that they would never accept Republican demands to repeal, defund or delay Mr. Obama’s signature health care law. White House officials dismissed it as “a nonstarter.”
雅各布·卢和民主党议员坚定地表示，他们不会再就提高债务上限的问题进行谈判，他们认为，这是在众议院掌权的共和党应负的责任。他们向众议院议长明确表示，绝不会接受共和党的要求，即废除奥巴马标志性的医改法案，也不会抽回对该法案的资金支持，或推迟法案的实施。白宫官员用“提都别提”回绝了这个想法。
“I had to be very candid with him and I told him directly, all these things they’re doing on Obamacare are just a waste of their time,” said Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the Senate majority leader. “Their direction is the direction toward shutting down the government.”
参议院多数党领袖、内华达州民主党参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)说，“我必须对他坦言相告，我直接对他说，他们对奥巴马医改法案所做的一切，都只是在浪费自己的时间。他们这是在往让政府关门的方向走。”
“I like John Boehner,” Mr. Reid added. “I do feel sorry for him.”
“我喜欢约翰·博纳，”里德还说。“我真的替他难过。”
Earlier this week, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 House Republican, proposed a two-step resolution to the fiscal impasse that was temporarily pushed into the background by Mr. Obama’s request for approval to initiate a military strike on Syria, since delayed.
本周早些时候，弗吉尼亚州众议员、众议院共和党第二号人物埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)就财政僵局提出了一个两步式解决方案，但由于奥巴马提请国会批准对叙利亚发动军事打击，提案被暂时搁置一旁，而后拖延至今。
Under Mr. Cantor’s plan, the House would have voted this week on a stopgap spending bill to keep the government operating through mid-December at the current level, which reflects sharp, across-the-board cuts known as sequestration. That bill would have a companion resolution to withhold all money for the health care law, but the Senate could simply ignore that resolution and approve the short-term spending bill.
按坎托的计划，众议院应该在本周就一项临时支出法案进行投票，这个提案让政府可以维持当前水平运行至12月中旬，其中包括了大幅度的、全面的开支削减，即所谓的“自动减赤”(sequestration)。它还有一个停止所有医疗法案支出的配套决议，但是参议院可以直接无视该决议，只需批准短期支出案就行了。
Then the House would vote to raise the debt ceiling enough for a year of borrowing, but demand a year’s delay in carrying out the health care law.
而后众议院会投票决定是否将债务上限提高到足够用于一年的借款，但要求将医疗法案推迟一年施行。
Within 24 hours, the House’s most ardent conservatives revolted, declaring the defunding resolution a gimmick that fell well short of their drive to undo the health care law. House Democrats said they would oppose not only stripping the health care law of money but also a spending level that maintains sequestration.
在24小时里，众议院最狂热的保守派勃然大怒，断言这个削减支出的方案只是个噱头，缺乏废除医疗法案的决心。众议院民主党人说他们不仅反对削减医疗法的资金，还会反对维持自动减赤的支出水平。
“The continued operation of the sequester is inimical to the interest of the United States, to the government, to the people and to international security,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic whip, who promised to hold his members against the Cantor plan.
“继续实施自动减赤对美国、对政府、对人民、对国际安全都是不利的，”马里兰州众议员、民主党督导斯坦尼·H·霍耶尔(Steny H. Hoyer)说，他承诺会将己方议员团结起来反对坎托的计划。
It was delayed indefinitely as House Republicans resumed their search for a measure that could unite them. One group of conservatives on Thursday pressed what they called a compromise: a one-year stopgap spending bill that would raise the debt ceiling for a year, delay all aspects of the health care law for a year, and give back some of the Pentagon cuts as a sweetener.
随着众议院共和党人重新着手寻找可以令各方达成共识的措施，该提案被无限期搁置了。一组保守派议员在周四提出了他们称为妥协的方案：一项为期一年的临时支出案，将债务上限提升一年，将医疗法的施行全面推迟一年，并恢复了一些五角大楼预算削减，算是给一点甜头。
Backers insisted on Thursday that it was a package Mr. Obama should be able to accept. Representative Phil Gingrey, Republican of Georgia, said seven Democratic senators facing re-election fights next year in Republican-leaning states would provide a beachhead of Democratic support, and noted the president had already agreed to some delays for his health law.
这项方案的支持者在周四坚称，这应该是一个奥巴马可以接受的计划。乔治亚州共和党众议员菲尔·金格雷(Phil Gingrey)，明年有7名民主党参议员要在倾向于共和党的州竞选连任，这些人将在争取民主党支持的行动中帮他们抢占滩头阵地，并且指出总统已经同意推迟一部分医疗法的实施。
Democrats scoffed at the Republican plans, and even some Republican leadership aides questioned how any could get to the president’s desk. Mr. Reid called the succession of proposals “juvenile political games” and suggested that many Republicans had lost touch with reality.
民主党人对共和党的计划嗤之以鼻，连一些共和党领袖的助手都怀疑它根本不可能送到总统的办公桌。里德称这一连串的提案是“幼稚的政治游戏”，在他看来很多共和党人已经跟现实脱节。
Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second ranking Democrat, said, “Sometimes I sympathize with Speaker Boehner, but the fact of the matter is, if he wants to lead for the good of the nation, he has to step beyond the Tea Party faction of his caucus.”
伊利诺伊州参议员、民主党二号人物理查德·J·德宾(Richard J. Durbin)说，“有时候我挺同情博纳议长的，但现实就是这样，如果他想为这个国家做点好事，就必须得把他的党团内那帮茶党压下去。”