TOKYO — In the public’s mind, the two Japanese hostages held by Islamic State militants have become inextricably linked: a pair of grim-faced figures who appeared last week in a video kneeling in orange jumpsuits next to a masked militant demanding a ransom for their lives.
东京——在公众心目中，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子挟持的两名日本人质的命运密切交织在了一起。上周发布的一段视频中，这两人身着橙色连体衣，面色凝重地跪在地上，身旁站着一个蒙面的武装分子，以他们的生命要挟，索要赎金。
The fates of the two men became even more tightly bound over the weekend, when an image was released showing one holding what appeared to be a photograph of the other’s decapitated body, and the Islamic State announced on its Al Bayan radio station that it had killed one of the men. An Islamic State-affiliated radio station confirmed late Sunday that one of the hostages had been murdered.
周末，他们的命运更紧密地牵扯在了一起。流传出的一张图片显示，一人手中举着一张照片，里面似乎是另一人被斩首的尸体。伊斯兰国通过旗下的Al Bayan电台宣称，已经杀死了其中一人。一家与伊斯兰国相关的电台于周日晚些时候证实，一名人质已被杀害。
Yet the paths that led the two men to their joint captivity in Syria could not have been more different.
然而导致两人在叙利亚共同被擒获的历程，却差异巨大。
The surviving hostage, Kenji Goto, 47, is a respected journalist who knew his way around conflict zones after having spent more than two decades covering them as a freelance television cameraman and the author of five books. He appeared initially drawn to Syria and Iraq by a lifelong idealistic zeal to cover the plight of the weak, and particularly refugee children.
尚在世的人质是47岁的后藤健二(Kenji Goto)，是一名备受尊重的记者，应对冲突地区游刃有余。过去超过20年的时间里，他一直作为自由电视摄像师在这些区域报道新闻，还著有五本书。最初吸引他前往叙利亚和伊拉克的，似乎是一种毕生的理想主义热情，他希望报道弱者的苦难，尤其是难民当中的儿童。
The other man, Haruna Yukawa, 42, was a lost soul who had attempted suicide in 2008 and seemed to become unhinged by a string of setbacks in life, including bankruptcy and the death of his wife. Convinced that he was the reincarnation of a celebrated World War II-era female spy, he wandered into Syria in search of a fresh start in life. On his blog, he fantasized about gaining enough combat experience against the Taliban and Al Qaeda to one day work as a security adviser for Japanese companies in dangerous areas.
另一名男子，42岁的汤川遥菜(Haruna Yukawa)生活落魄，曾在2008年企图自杀，生活中一连串的挫折，包括破产和丧妻，似乎已经让他精神崩溃。他相信自己是二战时期一个备受瞩目的女间谍的转世，于是来到了叙利亚追寻生命的新起点。他在自己的博客上充满幻想地写道，要在与塔利班(Taliban)和基地组织(Al Qaeda)作战时得到足够多的战斗经验，有朝一日可以为在危险区域经营的日本企业担任安全顾问。
Instead, he quickly got in over his head. Another Syrian rebel group briefly detained him before he was captured in August by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
然而局面很快就超出了他的预料。去年8月，伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）将他抓获，之前他还曾被另一个叙利亚反叛组织短暂扣押。
Almost improbably, the two Japanese men had crossed paths even before appearing together in last week’s ransom video. Indeed, the picture that emerges from accounts on the two men’s blogs, and from friends and family of both men, is that the more experienced journalist appeared to take the luckless and perhaps misguided Mr. Yukawa under his wing and felt responsible for him.
极为出人意料的是，这两名日本人质在上周索要赎金的视频中共同露面之前，就有过交集。的确，两人博客中的记述，以及二人亲友的叙述所勾勒出的情节显示，经历较为丰富的记者后藤健二，似乎曾对运气不好甚至有些不够明智的汤川遥菜有过关照，而且感觉对后者负有责任。
After the militants captured Mr. Yukawa, Mr. Goto tried to win his freedom by making a highly risky trip into territory controlled by the Islamic State, which has conquered large parts of Syria and Iraq. Mr. Goto was apparently captured during that ill-fated rescue mission in late October. “He went flying over there to do whatever he could, to help and to save an acquaintance who had been detained first,” Mr. Goto’s mother, Junko Ishido, 78, said Friday, referring to Mr. Yukawa. She explained her son’s actions by saying he had always tried to help the weak.
武装分子捕获汤川遥菜后，后藤健二曾冒着极大的风险，进入了伊斯兰国控制的区域，试图为汤川争取自由。目前，伊斯兰国已在叙利亚和伊拉克征服了大片的土地。后藤似乎是在这场注定失败的营救计划中，于10月底被抓住的。后藤健二78岁的母亲石堂顺子(Junko Ishido)周五表示，“他乘飞机到那里，做一些力所能及的努力，想要帮助和拯救之前被扣押的熟人，”即汤川遥菜。她为了解释儿子的举动，还说后藤健二总是会努力帮助弱者。
“Even before he could walk right, he would always, always treat those kinds of younger children with kindness,” she said. “He is a kind child, but also a child who burns with a sense of justice.”
“他在还不太会走路的时候，就总是会善良地对待年龄更小的孩子们，”她说。“他是个善良的孩子，但他这个孩子也有炽热的正义感。”
In what appears to have been his last video before heading into an area of Syria controlled by the militants, Mr. Goto seems to stoically accept the risks. Looking directly into the camera, he says that no matter what happens, he does not want anyone to blame the people of Syria.
在叙利亚由武装分子控制的区域拍摄的视频中，后藤健二似乎坚毅地接受了这些风险，那似乎是斩首前的最后一段视频。后藤直视镜头，说无论发生什么，都不希望任何人责怪叙利亚民众。
“It is a pretty dangerous trip,” Mr. Goto says, speaking first in his native Japanese and then in English. “If something happens, all responsibility is on me.”
“这是一段很危险的旅程，”后藤先是用母语日语，之后又用英语说道。“如有不测，所有责任都由我承担。”
The two men first met in April after Mr. Yukawa was detained by the Free Syrian Army, a relatively moderate rebel group, during his first trip into Syria. Mr. Goto negotiated Mr. Yukawa’s release, earning Mr. Yukawa’s gratitude. Three months later, just before his capture, Mr. Yukawa spent a week working as Mr. Goto’s assistant in Iraq, where the veteran journalist gave him survival tips.
两人第一次相遇是在去年4月，汤川首次前往叙利亚时，被相对温和的反叛组织叙利亚自由军(Free Syrian Army)扣押之后。后藤通过谈判，争取到了汤川的获释，于是赢得了汤川的感激。三个月后，就在被抓获前不久，汤川在伊拉克花了一周时间充当后藤的助手，这名经验丰富的记者还向汤川传授了一些生存技巧。
“My instinct tells me we will be lifelong friends,” Mr. Yukawa wrote in his blog. “It could only be fate that we met in Syria.”
“我的直觉告诉我，我们会成为毕生的朋友，”汤川在自己的博客里写道。“我们在叙利亚相遇，只能是命运。”
But much of his blog contains convoluted and sometimes bizarre soul-searching. The oddest passages were his description of his attempted suicide in 2008, when he castrated himself as a way to bleed to death. Quick action by his wife and doctors saved his life; he later wrote that, bereft of male hormones, he would live as a woman.
但是他博客中许多内容都是驳杂的，甚至有些怪诞的自我追问。其中最离奇的部分是对2008年企图自杀的叙述，当时他阉割了自己，希望以此失血过多而死。不过妻子和医生们行动迅速，挽回了他的生命。之后他写道，没有了男性荷尔蒙，他会作为女性继续生活。
He changed his given name to the feminine Haruna and became convinced that he was the reincarnation of Yoshiko Kawashima, a Manchu princess who became a spy for Imperial Japan and was known for wearing men’s clothes. Mr. Yukawa’s life took another big turn after the death of his wife from lung cancer. Early last year, he set off for the Middle East, telling friends and relatives that this was his last chance for finding success.
于是他把自己的名字改成了女性化的“遥菜”，并坚信自己是川岛芳子(Yoshiko Kawashima)的转世。川岛芳子本来是清朝的公主，后来成为了日本帝国的间谍，因为经常穿着男装而著称。在妻子因为肺癌去世后，汤川遥菜的生活又发生了一次重大转变。去年年初，他启程前往中东，并告诉朋友和亲人，这是他寻求成功的最后机会。
“The experiences I gain on this voyage will change my life,” he wrote in his blog in April. “I will come back if the world decides it needs me.”
“我在这段旅程中取得的经历会改变我的人生，”他在去年4月的一篇博客中写道。“如果世界认为需要我，我会回来的。”
Once in Syria, he posted videos of himself firing AK-47 assault rifles, and befriended a Japanese-Korean member of the Free Syrian Army. He was with the rebels when their position was overrun by Islamic State fighters, who posted a video of a captured Mr. Yukawa, bleeding from the face as he is interrogated.
一到叙利亚，他就在网上发布了自己端着AK–47突击步枪开火的视频，还结识了一位日韩混血的叙利亚自由军战士。伊斯兰国作战人员攻破自由军营地时，他正与自由军在一起。之后，伊斯兰国发布了一段抓获汤川的视频，其中显示汤川被讯问时脸上流着血。
During the two-minute video, the fighters repeatedly ask Mr. Yukawa one question that he seemed incapable of answering: Why are you here?
在两分钟长的视频中，武装分子反复追问汤川一个他似乎无法回答的问题：你为什么要来这里？
That same question has been posed by Japanese news media, which have been less sympathetic to Mr. Yukawa than to Mr. Goto. After the image of the decapitated body of Mr. Yukawa appeared, his father, Shoichi, 74, appeared in public to apologize for his son, saying he had caused trouble for both Japan and Mr. Goto.
日本新闻媒体也提出了同样的问题，而日本媒体对汤川，远没有对后藤那么同情。在汤川被斩去头颅的尸体的图像传出后，汤川遥菜74岁的父亲汤川正一(Shoichi)公开露面，替儿子道歉，称他为日本也为后藤健二添了麻烦。