HONG KONG — Two Chinese banks that sold nearly $2 billion worth of shares in Hong Kong stock market listings got lukewarm receptions on Wednesday from investors concerned about how China’s financial system will cope with a potential deluge of bad debt that could swamp the country’s economy.
香港——周三，两家中国大陆银行在香港上市时收到冷淡回应，因为投资者担心中国的金融体系难以应对潜在的坏账泛滥，这可能会使中国经济陷入困境。这两家银行售出了价值近20亿美元（约合122亿元人民币）的股票。
Huishang Bank Corporation, a regional banking group based in eastern Anhui Province, priced its initial public offering at the bottom end of the marketed range on Wednesday, raising 9.2 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $1.19 billion, according to two people with knowledge of the deal, who declined to be identified because the information was not yet public. Also Wednesday, shares in Bank of Chongqing closed slightly down on their first day of trading after the company raised 4.2 billion dollars in a share sale.
徽商银行股份有限公司是一家总部位于中国东部安徽省的地区性银行集团。据两名知情人士透露，周三，该公司以接近招股价下限的价格为首次公开募股定价，筹得92亿港元（约合72亿元人民币）。上述知情人士要求匿名，因为该信息尚未公布。同样是在周三，重庆银行的股票在首个交易日收盘时价格微跌，在股票交易中筹得42亿港元。
Although both banks had boasted net profits that grew at more than 25 percent annually during the past three years, and had reported bad loan levels that were well below the industry average, they were able to list only after pricing their shares at practically no premium to the value of their assets.
虽然两家银行过去三年里的净利润年增长率都超过了25%，并报称坏账水平远低于银行业平均水平，但它们上市之时，仍然只能定出几乎不存在资产溢价的股价。
That implies investors are skeptical about the quality of the loans on the banks’ books and their ability to increase future profits — an extension of a growing wariness toward Chinese banks and a reflection of broad doubts about the health of the country’s financial system.
这说明，投资者对这些银行的账面贷款质量及增加未来利润的能力持怀疑态度，背景则是他们对中国的银行越来越警惕的心理，以及对中国金融体系健康状况的广泛怀疑。
“There are growing concerns that the government is becoming less tolerant of egregious lending, and that examples may be made among smaller or poorly capitalized lenders,” said Ben Simpfendorfer, an economist and the managing director of Silk Road Associates, a financial consulting firm in Hong Kong. “Those fears may play out across the sector more generally.”
“人们越来越担心，政府对恶性贷款不会再那么宽容，可能会拿规模较小、资金匮乏的银行来当典型，”经济学家、香港金融咨询公司丝路顾问公司(Silk Road Associates)的董事总经理贝哲民(Ben Simpfendorfer)说。“金融领域的这种担忧情绪可能会愈发普遍。”
In the five years since the global financial crisis, China’s economic resilience has been driven by a doubling of bank lending and the rapid rise of so-called shadow banking.
全球金融危机爆发之后的五年中，银行贷款翻番以及所谓影子银行的快速崛起推动中国经济渡过了难关。
Local governments were responsible for much of that borrowing, as they plowed money into hulking infrastructure or pet projects in an attempt to create jobs and increase gross domestic product.
地方政府要为大部分借款负责，因为它们将资金投入庞大的基础设施项目或宠物项目（因个人爱好而非大众需要而发起的项目——译注），目的是创造就业岗位，增加国内生产总值。
Now, as growth slows and the new leadership in Beijing searches for ways to rein in wasteful investment and reckless lending — topics that analysts say are on the agenda of a key Communist Party planning session that begins Saturday — some analysts and investors see big trouble ahead, especially for the financial institutions that bankrolled local government spending sprees.
如今，随着增长放缓，北京的新领导层正在设法控制无用投资及不计后果的贷款——分析人士称，上述话题已经被列入将于周六开始的共产党关键性规划会议的议事日程。有鉴于此，一些分析人士及投资者认为未来会出大麻烦，特别是那些为地方政府无节制开销提供资金的金融机构。
Because local governments in China are banned from taking loans or issuing bonds directly, and cannot guarantee such debt, they have relied on specially created holding companies called financing vehicles. At the end of June, total bank debt accumulated by these local government financing vehicles amounted to 9.7 trillion renminbi, or $1.6 trillion — equal to about 13 percent of all bank loans in China, according to a report published this week by Moody’s Investors Service, a credit rating agency.
在中国，地方政府不得直接借贷或发行债券，也无法为此类债务提供担保，因此他们一直依靠专门设立的控股公司，这些公司被称为融资平台。根据信用评级机构穆迪投资者服务公司(Moody's Investors Service)本周发布的报告， 6月底，地方政府融资平台积累的银行债务总额高达9.7万亿元人民币，大约相当于中国银行贷款总额的13%。
Moody’s surveyed nearly 400 local government financing vehicles in June, concluding that only 53 percent of them had enough cash available to meet their debt and interest payment obligations in 2013 without resorting to refinancing — or taking on new debt to pay off the old. “The standalone financial profiles of many L.G.F.V.’s are very weak,” the ratings agency concluded.
今年6月，穆迪对将近400家地方政府融资平台进行了调查，并得出如下结论：2013年，只有53%的融资平台有足够现金偿还债务并支付利息，无需重新筹措资金，也就是借新债还旧债。该信用评级机构断定，“很多地方政府融资平台的独立财务状况非常糟糕。”
Ted Osborn, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Hong Kong who specializes in restructuring bad debt, described the problems at small city commercial banks and regional banks as “the biggest issue that China needs to overcome.”
擅长重组坏账的香港普华永道(PricewaterhouseCoopers)合伙人泰德·奥斯本(Ted Osborn)说，小城市商业银行和地区银行的问题是“中国需要解决的最大问题”。
“The big banks will of course always be supported by the government, but if you take a look at these smaller banks, they have lent probably half of that financing to the local government vehicles,” he said Tuesday at a financial forum in Hong Kong organized by the law firm Latham & Watkins and the Asia Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association.
“不用说，大型银行总是能得到政府的支持，但你看看这些较小的银行，它们或许把一半的融资都借给了地方政府的融资平台，”周二，他在瑞生国际律师事务所(Latham & Watkins)和亚洲证券业与金融市场协会(Asia Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association)在香港组织的金融论坛上说。
Mr. Osborn cited a side effect of a wide-ranging anticorruption campaign China is conducting at the behest of President Xi Jinping: The many midtier government officials who have been implicated are often the same people who approved and directed the loans to local government projects that are raising concerns among investors.
奥斯本还表示，中国按国家主席习近平的要求开展的大规模反腐行动产生了一个负面作用：众多中层政府官员涉嫌腐败，屡见不鲜的情况是，正是他们批准和引导贷款流向了那些引起投资者担心的当地政府项目。
“If these loans are bad and more loans go bad than expected, these smaller banks don’t have the capital — and don’t have the ability to raise capital — that the larger banks have,” he said. “That’s where I see a potential crisis growing somewhere down the road.”
“如果这些贷款成了坏账，成为坏账的贷款超出了预期，这些小银行就没有资本，也没有能力筹集资本；规模较大的银行则不同，”他说。“我认为，这个环节将来可能会发生危机。”
Gaining the ability to raise capital is one factor that has driven China’s smaller banks to seek I.P.O.’s. In its filings for its Hong Kong listing, Huishang Bank disclosed that its lending to local government financing vehicles was equal to 10.7 percent of its total assets as of June. For Bank of Chongqing, the figure was 12.9 percent.
获得筹资能力是驱使中国小型银行寻求上市的原因之一。徽商银行为在香港上市提供的备案文件透露，迄6月为止，它借给当地政府融资平台的资金相当于其总资产的10.7%，重庆银行的相应数据为12.9%。
Because local governments cannot offer guarantees for such borrowing, the loans are often backed by the projects they are intended to fund. Doubts have been raised about the quality of that collateral and whether it can generate the returns needed to pay back the debt.
由于地方政府无法为这种贷款提供担保，这些贷款往往得靠贷款资助的项目来支持。人们担心这种担保品的质量，还担心它们不能带来偿还贷款所需的收益。
As an example of such a project, Mr. Simpfendorfer, of Silk Road Associates, cited an international marathon course that was built by officials in Changde, in the central province of Hunan. The course, which partly surrounds a lake, was paid for in part by the proceeds from a bond that was issued by a local government financing vehicle.
以湖南常德官员修建的一条国际马拉松跑道为例，丝路顾问公司的贝哲民对此类项目进行了说明。这条跑道部分环绕着一个湖，其部分资金来自一个地方政府融资平台发行债券的收益。
“It is one of those headline-grabbing projects that makes good press,” Mr. Simpfendorfer said, but he added that it appeared unlikely to generate much of a financial return.
贝哲民说，“这种工程可以上头条，能引起媒体的广泛注意。”但他还说，它似乎不太可能带来很多经济回报。
Indeed, even the banks making loans to local government entities have raised doubts over the viability of the projects they are ultimately funding, and whether the debts will be repaid.
的确，连那些把钱借给地方政府实体的银行都产生了疑虑，担心他们资助的这些项目在经济上的不可行，担心这些债务得不到偿还。
“Many projects sponsored by local government financing vehicles are carried out primarily for public interest purposes and are not necessarily commercially viable, and therefore, the operating cash flows generated from such projects may not be sufficient to cover the principal and interest on the relevant loans,” Bank of Chongqing said in a risk disclosure in its I.P.O. filing.
重庆银行在上市文件的风险披露当中说，“地方政府融资平台支持的许多项目主要出于公众利益，不一定具有经济上的可行性。所以，这些项目运营所得的现金流或许不足以偿付相关贷款的本金和利息。”
“The ability of a local government financing vehicle to repay its loans may depend to a significant extent on its ability to receive financing support from the government, which support may not always be available due to the government’s liquidity, budgeting priorities and other considerations.”
“地方政府融资平台偿还贷款的能力可能会在很大程度上取决于它从政府获得资金支持的能力，而由于偿债能力、预算安排和其他因素，政府并不总是能提供这种支持。”