Donald Trump was emphatic in the second presidential debate: Yes, he had boasted about kissing women without permission and grabbing their genitals. But he had never actually done those things, he said.
在第二场总统辩论中，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)语气坚决：是的，他曾自夸强吻女性和抓她们下体的经历。但他说，自己实际上从没做过这些事情。
“No,” he declared under questioning Sunday evening, “I have not.”
“没有，”他在周日傍晚接受采访时说，“我没做过。”
At that moment, sitting at home in Manhattan, Jessica Leeds, 74, felt he was lying to her face. “I wanted to punch the screen,” she said in an interview in her apartment.
那一刻，74岁的杰茜卡·利兹(Jessica Leeds)正坐在曼哈顿的家中。她觉得特朗普是在当着她的面撒谎。“我想给屏幕一拳，”她在自己的公寓里接受采访时说。
More than three decades ago, when she was a traveling businesswoman at a paper company, Leeds said, she sat beside Trump in the first-class cabin of a flight to New York. They had never met.
利兹说，30多年前，在商界摸爬滚打的她在一家纸业公司工作。一次乘坐头等舱去纽约出差时，她坐在特朗普的旁边。在那之前，他们两人没见过面。
About 45 minutes after takeoff, she recalled, Trump lifted the armrest and began to touch her.
她回忆说，飞机起飞约45分钟后，特朗普拉起扶手，开始对她动手动脚。
According to Leeds, Trump grabbed her breasts and tried to put his hand up her skirt.
据利兹称，特朗普抓她的胸部，并试图将手伸进她的裙子里。
“He was like an octopus,” she said. “His hands were everywhere.”
“他就像章鱼一样，”她说。“到处都是他的手。”
She fled to the back of the plane. “It was an assault,” she said.
她逃到了机舱后部。“那是一次侵犯，”她说。
Leeds has told the story to at least four people close to her, who also spoke with The New York Times.
利兹至少和四个与自己关系亲密的人说过这件事。这四人也接受了《纽约时报》(The New York Times)的采访。
Trump’s claim that his crude words had never turned into actions was similarly infuriating to a woman watching Sunday night in Ohio: Rachel Crooks.
特朗普说自己的粗话从未变成行动。这个说法同样激怒了周日晚上观看辩论的俄亥俄州女子蕾切尔·克鲁克斯(Rachel Crooks)。
Crooks was a 22-year-old receptionist at Bayrock Group, a real estate investment and development company in Trump Tower in Manhattan, when she encountered Trump outside an elevator in the building one morning in 2005.
2005年，时年22岁的克鲁克斯在曼哈顿特朗普大厦内的房地产投资和开发公司贝罗克集团(Bayrock Group)担任前台。一天上午，她在大厦电梯外面遇到了特朗普。
Aware that her company did business with Trump, she turned and introduced herself. They shook hands, but Trump would not let go, she said. Instead, he began kissing her cheeks. Then, she said, he “kissed me directly on the mouth.”
她知道自己所在的公司与特朗普有业务往来，于是转过身向特朗普介绍自己。两人握了手，但克鲁克斯说，特朗普一直不放手，反而开始亲她的脸颊。然后，她说，他“直接亲我的嘴巴”。
It didn’t feel like an accident, she said. It felt like a violation.
她说，感觉不像是不小心。感觉像是猥亵。
“It was so inappropriate,” Crooks recalled in an interview. “I was so upset that he thought I was so insignificant that he could do that.”
“非常不合适，”克鲁克斯在采访中回忆说。“我心烦意乱，觉得他是认为我地位太低微所以自己可以那么做。”
Shaken, Crooks returned to her desk and called her sister, Brianne Webb, in the small town in Ohio where they had grown up, and told her what had happened.
受到惊吓的克鲁克斯回到自己的桌子旁，给住在俄亥俄一个小镇的姐妹布里安·韦布(Brianne Webb)打电话，讲述了事情经过。她们一起在那个小镇长大。
“She was very worked up about it,” said Webb, who recalled pressing her sister for details. “Being from a town of 1,600 people, being naive, I was like ‘Are you sure he didn’t just miss trying to kiss you on the cheek?’ She said, ‘No, he kissed me on the mouth.’ I was like, ‘That is not normal.'”
“那件事让她非常紧张，”韦布回忆了自己追问姐妹细节的情形。“我这么一个生活在1600人的小镇上的人，很天真的，我说‘他会不会只是想亲你脸颊但没亲到？‘她说，‘不是，他亲了我的嘴。’我就想，‘这不正常吧。’”
In the days since Trump’s campaign was jolted by a 2005 recording that caught him bragging about pushing himself on women, he has insisted, as have his aides, that it was simply macho bluster. “It’s just words,” he has said repeatedly.
在这段2005年的录音中，特朗普吹嘘自己强行与女性亲热的经历。录音让特朗普的竞选受到重创。之后的几天里，特朗普和助手坚称那只是大男子气的吹牛。“只是说说而已，”他多次说。
And his hope for salvaging his candidacy rests heavily on whether voters believe that claim.
他希望挽救自己的候选人资格，这在很大程度上取决于选民是否相信他的说法。
They should not, say Leeds and Crooks, whose stories have never been made public before. And their accounts echo those of other women who have previously come forward, like Temple Taggart, a former Miss Utah, who said that Trump kissed her on the mouth more than once when she was a 21-year-old pageant contestant.
利兹和克鲁克斯说，选民不应相信特朗普的话。此前，她们两人的故事从未公开过。她们的说法印证了之前站出来的一些女性的说法，如前犹他小姐坦普尔·塔格特(Temple Taggart)。塔格特说，在她21岁时参加一场选美比赛时，特朗普多次亲吻她的嘴。
In a phone interview Tuesday night, a highly agitated Trump denied every one of the women’s claims.
在周二晚上的电话采访中，极度烦躁的特朗普否认了她们的所有说法。
“None of this ever took place,” said Trump, who began shouting at The Times reporter who was questioning him. He said that The Times was making up the allegations to hurt him and that he would sue the news organization if it reported them.
“这里面没有一件是真事，”特朗普说。他开始冲正在提问的时报记者叫嚷。他说时报编造这些指控是为了害他，并表示如果把这些指控报道出来，他会起诉。
“You are a disgusting human being,” he told the reporter as she questioned him about the women’s claims.
“你是一个令人作呕的人，”他对就那些女性的说法向其提问的女记者说。
Asked whether he had ever done any of the kissing or groping that he had described on the recording, Trump was once again insistent: “I don’t do it. I don’t do it. It was locker room talk.”
被问及是否做过他在录音中所说的强吻或动手动脚行为时，特朗普再次态度坚决：“没做过。没做过。那只是‘更衣室谈话’。”
But for the women who shared their stories with The Times, the recording was more than that: As upsetting as it was, it offered them a kind of affirmation, they said.
但是对于那些和时报分享了相关经历的女人们来说，这份录音并不止于此：她们说，虽然它让人气愤，但另一方面，它也为她们提供了证明。
That was the case for Taggart. Trump’s description of how he kisses beautiful women without invitation described precisely what he did to her, she said.
塔格特的情况就是如此，特朗普描述自己未经允许就亲吻那些漂亮的女人，她说，这正是他对她的所做所为。
“I just start kissing them,” Trump said on the tape. “It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait.”
“我开始亲吻她们，”特朗普在录音中说。“就像是吸铁石一般，只管去亲。我等不了。”
Crooks and Leeds never reported their accounts to the authorities, but they both shared what happened to them with friends and family. Crooks did so immediately afterward; Leeds described the events to those close to her more recently, as Trump became more visible politically and ran for president.
克鲁克斯和利兹从来没有向当局报告自己的经历，但是她们都和朋友与家人谈起过发生的事情。克鲁克斯是事后很快就说了；利兹是前不久，特朗普在政界频繁出现并开始竞选总统期间，才和身边亲密的人谈起那段经历。
Leeds was 38 at the time and living in Connecticut. She had been seated in coach. But a flight attendant invited her to take an empty seat in first class, she said. That seat was beside Trump, who did not yet own a fleet of private aircraft, records show. He introduced himself and shook her hand. They exchanged pleasantries, and Trump asked her if she was married. She was divorced and told him so.
利兹当时38岁，住在康涅狄格州。她说，她原本坐在经济舱，但是一位空乘人员邀请她坐到头等舱的空位上。那个位子挨着特朗普，纪录表明，当时他还没有多架私人飞机。他做了自我介绍，和她握了手。两人寒暄一番，特朗普问她是否已婚。她告诉他自己离婚了。
Later, after their dinner trays were cleared, she said, Trump raised the armrest, moved toward her and began to grope her. Leeds said she recoiled. She quickly left the first-class cabin and returned to coach, she said.
后来，她说，两人的飞机餐盘被撤下之后，特朗普抬起椅子扶手，向她凑过来，开始对她动手动脚。利兹说自己厌恶地向后退缩。她说，自己很快离开了头等舱，回到经济舱去。
“I was angry and shook up,” she recalled, as she sat on a couch in her New York City apartment Tuesday.
“我当时又愤怒又震惊，”星期二，她坐在纽约市家中的沙发上回忆。
She had largely put the encounter on the plane out of her mind until last year, when Trump’s presidential campaign became more serious. Since then, she has told a widening circle of people, including her son, a nephew and two friends, all of whom were contacted by The Times.
她已经差不多忘记了这段飞机上的邂逅，直到去年，特朗普的总统竞选活动开始变得愈发煞有其事。从那以后，她开始把这件事告诉给更多人，包括自己的儿子，一个侄子和两个朋友，时报与这些人都取得了联系。
They said they were sickened by what they heard. “It made me shake,” said Linda Ross, a neighbor and friend who spoke with Leeds about the interaction about six months ago. Like several of Leeds’ friends, Ross encouraged her to tell her story to the media. Leeds had resisted until Sunday’s debate, which she watched with Ross.
他们说，这件事令他们厌恶不已。“我听得浑身发抖，”利兹的邻居和朋友琳达·罗斯(Linda Ross)说，利兹是在六个月前告诉她这件事的。和利兹的其他几个朋友一样，罗斯鼓励她把这件事告诉媒体。利兹一直都很抗拒，直到星期日和罗斯一起收看辩论的时候。
When Trump denied having ever sexually assaulted women, in response to a question from Anderson Cooper of CNN, Ross immediately looked at Leeds in disbelief, Ross said. “Now we know he lied straight up,” Ross recalled saying.
特朗普回答CNN台安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)的问题，否认自己曾经对女人实施过性侵，罗斯马上用难以置信的眼光看着利兹，她回忆自己当时说，“现在我们知道他是在公然撒谎了。”
For Crooks, the encounter with Trump was further complicated by the fact that she worked in his building and risked running into him again.
对于克鲁克斯来说，遇到特朗普的这段经历更加复杂一点，因为她当时是在他的大厦里工作，还冒着再次遇到他的危险。
A few hours after Trump kissed her, Crooks returned to her apartment in Brooklyn and broke down to her boyfriend at the time, Clint Hackenburg.
特朗普亲吻她几个小时后，克鲁克斯回到自己在布鲁克林的公寓，在当时的男友克林特·哈肯伯格(Clint Hackenburg)面前崩溃了。
“I asked, ‘How was your day?'” Hackenburg recalled. “She paused for a second and then started hysterically crying.”
“我问，‘你今天怎么样？’”哈肯伯格回忆。“她顿了一秒钟，然后歇斯底里地哭起来。”
After Crooks described her experience with Trump, she and Hackenburg discussed what to do.
克鲁克斯描述了遇到特朗普的经历后，两人开始讨论该怎么办。
“I think that what was more upsetting than him kissing her was that she felt like she couldn’t do anything to him because of his position,” he said. “She was 22. She was a secretary. It was her first job out of college. I remember her saying, ‘I can’t do anything to this guy, because he’s Donald Trump.'”
“我觉得比起特朗普亲了她，更让她气愤的是，她觉得因为他有地位，所以她根本不能把他怎么样，”他说。“她当时22岁，是个秘书。这是她大学毕业后第一份工作。我记得她说，‘我没法拿这个男人怎么样，因为他是唐纳德·特朗普。’”
Both Leeds and Crooks say they support Hillary Clinton’s campaign for president, and Crooks has made contributions of less than $200 to Clinton and President Barack Obama.
利兹和克鲁克斯都说，她们支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)竞选总统，克鲁克斯还给克林顿和贝拉克·奥巴马总统捐过不到200美元。
Crooks was initially reluctant to go public with her story but felt compelled to talk about her experience.
克鲁克斯一开始不太情愿把自己的故事公之于众，但觉得自己必须谈一谈这段经历。
“People should know,” she said of Trump, “this behavior is pervasive and it is real.”
“人们应当知道，”她说起特朗普，“（他的）这种行为很经常，而且是真实的。”