The pace and scope of the killing are dizzying. Some 300 members of families blown apart by bombs as they celebrated the end of Ramadan in Baghdad. Forty-nine dead at the Istanbul airport, 40 more in Afghanistan. Nine Italians, seven Japanese, three students at American universities and one local woman brutalized in the diplomatic quarter of Dhaka, Bangladesh. The bodies piled up on a bus in Somalia, at a mosque and video club in Cameroon, at a shrine in Saudi Arabia.
现如今，杀戮的速度和规模令人应接不暇。在巴格达，大约300人在庆祝斋月结束的活动上被炸弹炸成了碎片。伊斯坦布尔机场有49人遇害，阿富汗又死亡40人。在孟加拉国达卡的使馆区，九名意大利人、七名日本人、三名在美国大学就读的学生和一名当地女子惨遭袭击。在索马里的一辆公交车上、喀麦隆的一座清真寺和一个影视俱乐部里及沙特阿拉伯的一处圣地，尸体堆积如山。
All that carnage was in a single week — a single week of summer in what feels like an endless stream of terrorist attacks. Orlando and Beirut. Paris and Nice and St.-Etienne-du-Rouvray, France. Germany and Japan and Egypt. Each bomb or bullet tearing holes in homes and communities.
所有这些屠戮行为都发生在一周之内。在夏季的那一周里，一连串的恐怖袭击感觉像是永无止境。从奥兰多到贝鲁特。从巴黎到尼斯再到圣艾蒂安迪鲁夫赖。从德国到日本再到埃及。每一枚引爆的炸弹和射出的子弹都让家庭和社群千疮百孔。
We stopped the clock on two weeks in March when there were high-profile attacks that commanded headlines — and attacks in places where they have become almost routine. In that period, we counted 247 men, women and children cut down by Islamist extremists in mass killings carried out at soft targets in six countries.
让我们把时间停留在今年3月的两个星期里。当时，一系列广受关注的袭击占据了媒体的头条。在袭击发生的那些地方，它们几乎成了常态。在那期间，我们的统计数字显示，伊斯兰主义极端分子在六个国家针对脆弱目标制造的大规模杀戮中，247人遇难，包括妇女和儿童。
Eight couples were slain together, doing the things couples do.
其中八对伴侣在做着普通伴侣会做的事情时，同时遇害。
Muhammad and Shawana Naveed, wed three months earlier, went for a Sunday stroll in a Pakistan park.
时值周日，三个月前结婚的穆罕默德(Muhammad)和沙瓦娜·纳维德(Shawana Naveed)夫妇在巴基斯坦一座公园里散步。
Stephanie and Justin Shults, accountants who met at Vanderbilt University and were living in Brussels, had just dropped her mother off at the airport.
斯蒂芬妮(Stephanie)和贾斯汀·舒尔茨(Justin Shults)相识于范德堡大学(Vanderbilt University)，两人都是会计，住在布鲁塞尔。遇害前，他们刚刚把斯蒂芬妮的母亲送到机场。
Zeynep Basak Gulsoy and Nusrettin Can Calkinsin, 19-year-old law students, were on their way home from the movies — a Turkish film called “My Mother’s Wound,” about the aftermath of war.
泽伊内普·巴萨克·古尔索伊(Zeynep Basak Gulsoy)和努斯雷廷·卡恩·卡尔金辛(Nusrettin Can Calkinsin)同为19岁，都是法学专业的学生。遇害时，他们刚刚看完电影，正在回家的路上。那是一部土耳其电影，名为《母亲的伤口》(My Mother’s Wound)，讲述的是战争的后果。
The pair got together in high school. “I will never leave you alone,” she wrote in his yearbook. “I am always beside you and will stay with you.”
两人在上高中时走到了一起。“我永远都不会留下你一个人，”姑娘在男友的毕业年刊中写道。“我会一直陪在你身边，和你在一起。”
Now they are buried side by side.
如今，他们的墓穴紧挨着。
They were two of the 36 killed in a public square in Ankara, Turkey’s capital, on March 13. That was the opening day of the two weeks — a day in which 19 others fell in attacks on three beachside hotels in Grand Bassam, Ivory Coast. By March 27, extremists affiliated with al-Qaida, Boko Haram, the Islamic State and the Taliban would hit a mosque in Nigeria; an Istanbul street popular with tourists; a soccer stadium in Iraq; a bus in Peshawar, Pakistan; the park in Lahore, Pakistan, where the Naveeds were strolling that Sunday; and Brussels Airport and a subway station.
今年3月13日，在土耳其首都安卡拉的一个公共广场上，包括他们两人在内的36人惨遭杀害。当天是那两个星期开始的第一天。同日，另有19人在科特迪瓦大巴萨姆三座海滨酒店发生的袭击中丧生。到3月27日，遭受隶属于基地组织(al-Qaida)、博科哈拉姆（Boko Haram，旧译博科圣地）、伊斯兰国(Islamic State)和塔利班(Taliban)的极端分子袭击的地方将包括尼日利亚的一座清真寺、伊斯坦布尔的一条热门旅游街、伊拉克的一座足球场、巴基斯坦白沙瓦的一辆公交车、巴基斯坦拉合尔的一座公园——纳维德夫妇周日去散步的地方，以及布鲁塞尔机场和那里的一个地铁站。
We went back to all these places to track each individual, to reveal the humanity lost and to address reader concerns that not all victims of terrorism are treated equally. A life is a life, wherever and whenever it is cut short.
我们重访所有这些地方，寻找每个人的踪迹，去揭露人性的丧失，回应读者的关切，即并非所有的恐怖主义受害者都得到了公平的对待。性命就是性命，不管它是在何时、在哪里被斩断。
Losing a Loved One
永失所爱
We wanted to see what connections or distinctions we might find among the victims, but also to deepen understanding of the ripple effects of the terrorism that has come to define our days. We counted 1,168 immediate surviving relatives: 211 people who had lost a parent, 78 without a spouse.
我们想看看可以在受害人之间找到怎样的联系或区别，也希望能加深对恐怖主义连锁反应的理解。恐怖主义逐渐成为了我们这个时代的一种特征。我们统计出1168名幸存直系亲属：有211人失去了父亲或母亲，78人失去了配偶。
More than 100 victims, young and old, left behind parents, whose language of mourning translates across borders.
超过100名受害人留下双亲，逝者当中既有年轻人，也有年长者。这些父母悼念子女的语言无需翻译，也可以相通。
“This is pain, I think, that we cannot describe,” said Michel Visart, whose daughter Lauriane was killed in the explosion at the Brussels subway station.
“我觉得这是种难以言喻的痛，”米歇尔·维萨尔(Michel Visart)说。她的女儿洛里安(Lauriane)在布鲁塞尔地铁站爆炸事件中丧生。
“My son was like a candle in the house,” said Khaleel Kadhum, a father in Iraq who had moved his family from Baghdad to the relatively safer south only to have his son, Ahmed, encounter terrorism there. “This candle was snuffed out, and the happiness of the family is gone.”
“我的儿子就像是家里的蜡烛，”哈利勒·卡达胡姆(Khaleel Kadhum)说。这位伊拉克父亲将家人从巴格达迁至相对安全的南部，但他的儿子艾哈迈德却在那里遭遇了恐怖袭击。“这根蜡烛被掐灭了，这个家的幸福也不见了。”
The oldest victim was Sevinc Gokay, an 84-year-old retired civil servant who was killed in Ankara. The youngest were not even born: Two pregnant women were killed along with the babies they carried; a third, Songul Bektas, survived but lost her pregnancy in its third trimester.
年龄最大的受害者，是在安卡拉丧生的84岁退休公务员塞温奇·格卡伊(Sevinc Gokay)。最年幼的受害者甚至没来得及出生：两名孕妇及肚子里的孩子一起殒命；还有一个名为松居尔·贝克塔什(Songul Bektas)的孕妇幸存下来，但失去了处于妊娠晚期的胎儿。
There were Jews and Christians and atheists, and at least one Hindu, but 151 of the victims — 61 percent — were Muslims, like their killers.
遇害者中有犹太人、基督徒、无神论者，还有至少一名印度教徒，但有151名遇害者——占总数的61%——和杀害他们的人一样，是穆斯林。
A Taliban splinter group claimed to be targeting Christians at the Lahore park. But most of those killed there, too, were Muslim — like Zubaida Amjad, 40, who knew the Quran by heart and was teaching her 12-year-old daughter, Momina Amjad, to recite the verses. The girl was killed, too.
一个塔利班分支组织声称，他们在拉合尔的公园的行动针对的是基督徒。但在那里遇害的大多仍是穆斯林——比如40岁的卒芭依达·安贾德(Zubaida Amjad)，他熟读《古兰经》，并且在教12岁的女儿莫米娜·安贾德(Momina Amjad)背诵经文。这位女孩也已遇害。
And in Brussels, the subway victims included Loubna Lafquiri, 34, a gym teacher and mother of three from Molenbeek, the same hardscrabble area where Saleh Abdeslam, a suspect in the Paris attacks in November, lived.
在布鲁塞尔，地铁遇害者包括34岁的鲁布娜·拉福库伊力(Loubna Lafquiri)，莫伦贝克区的一名体育老师，三个孩子的母亲。去年11月巴黎袭击的嫌疑人之一萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)就生活在这个贫民区。
“Molenbeek is not only Saleh Abdeslam,” said Mohamed el-Bachiri, Lafquiri’s husband. “Molenbeek is also Loubna Lafquiri.”
“莫伦贝克不只是萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆，”拉福库伊力的丈夫穆罕默德·巴奇力(Mohamed el-Bachiri)说。“莫伦贝克也是鲁布娜·拉福库伊力。”
Global Citizens
世界公民
The 247 victims included Americans, Chinese, Congolese, French, Germans, Israelis, Lebanese, Macedonians, Peruvians, Poles — 26 nationalities in all. Most died less than 10 miles from where they lived.
247名遇害者分别来自美国、中国、刚果、法国、德国、以色列、黎巴嫩、马其顿、秘鲁、波兰等26个国家。多数人丧生时离自己生活的地方不到10英里。
But a Chinese medicine salesman named Deng Jingquan was more than 7,000 miles from home, at the Brussels Airport, when it came under attack. In messages to friends during his travels, he hinted at his homesickness.
然而，中国医药推销员邓经泉在布鲁塞尔机场丧生时，离家有7000多英里。在旅途中，他曾发信息给朋友，表露自己的思乡之情。
The victims over these two weeks were musicians, scholars, teachers, waitresses, police officers, housewives, farmers, students.
在这两周里遇害的人中，有音乐家、学者、教师、服务生、警官、家庭主妇、农民，以及学生。
There were those whose lives had been long and filled with accomplishments, like André Adam, a former Belgian ambassador to the United Nations who had also seen the effects of political violence during diplomatic duty in Algeria and Congo.
有一些遇害者有着漫长而功勋卓著的人生，比如前比利时驻联合国大使安德烈·亚当(André Adam)，在其外交官生涯中，他曾目睹阿尔及利亚和刚果政治动荡造成的影响。
His relatives said that Adam’s last act was to shield his wife, Danielle, from the blast at Brussels Airport. She was seriously injured but survived.
他的亲属说，在布鲁塞尔机场爆炸时，亚当的最后举动是护住妻子丹尼耶尔(Danielle)。她受了重伤，但活了下来。
And there were those whose lives were short and plagued by hardship, like Ousmane Sangare, 16, who was born mute and hard of hearing in Ivory Coast. His parents had abandoned him and moved to Mali, according to a social worker. Ousmane slept at a train station but liked to go to the Grand Bassam beach on weekends to beg — and to swim. That’s where the terrorists caught him.
有一些遇害者的生命短暂而艰辛，比如16岁的科特迪瓦少年乌斯玛尼·桑加尔(Ousmane Sangare)，他天生是哑巴，且有听力障碍。据一位义工说，他的父母抛弃了他，搬到马里生活。奥斯马尼睡在火车站，但周末喜欢去大巴萨姆的海滩乞讨，也会顺便游泳。他在那里遭遇恐怖分子。
Families Torn Apart
家破人亡
About half of the 247 victims from those two weeks were killed alongside someone they knew. Jean Edouard Charpentier, 78, a retired forest ranger from France, had just finished a bike ride in Grand Bassam with his friend Jean-Pierre Arnaud, 75, a salesman who played the guitar. At the soccer stadium, most of the victims had gone to see the game with friends, brothers, cousins.
两周的247名遇害者中，有约半数是和自己认识的某个人一同殒命的。78岁的法国退休护林员让·爱德华·夏彭提耶(Jean Edouard Charpentier)和75岁的朋友、会玩吉他的推销员让-皮耶尔·阿诺(Jean-Pierre Arnaud)刚刚在大巴萨姆完成一段自行车骑行。在足球场里，多数遇害者是和朋友、兄弟、堂表亲一起去看球的。
Families were decimated. In Nigeria, a mother was killed along with her son and two daughters; another woman died alongside her husband, son, mother, niece and nephew. At the Lahore park, 10 relatives, all gone, including Faiz Ahmed Chandio, a clerk in the government’s irrigation department who loved to cook rice with chicken gravy, and three of his six children: Shiraz, 6; Samina, 5; and Sadaf, 5 months.
一些家庭蒙受了巨大损失。在尼日利亚，一个母亲和她的儿子、两个女儿一同遇害；还有一个女人和自己的丈夫、儿子、母亲、侄女、侄子死在一起。在拉合尔公园，10名亲属悉数遇害，包括在政府灌溉部门做事的法伊兹·艾赫迈德·钱迪奥(Faiz Ahmed Chandio)，他喜欢用鸡肉酱汁做米饭，他的六个孩子中有三个和他一同遇害：六岁的什拉孜(Shiraz)；五岁的萨米娜(Samina)和五个月大的萨达夫(Sadaf)。
They were one of at least nine sets of siblings killed.
像这样兄弟姐妹同时遇害的情况，至少有九例。
In Brussels, Ankara and Istanbul, the attacks ended lives that had been lived in relative security. In Nigeria, Iraq and Pakistan, where terrorism and violence lurk around every corner, some families found themselves in familiar postures of mourning.
在布鲁塞尔、安卡拉和伊斯坦布尔丧生的人，本来生活在一个相对安全的地方。在尼日利亚、伊拉克和巴基斯坦，恐怖主义和暴力无处不在，一些亲属已经多次陷入这样的哀痛。
Ahmed Ibrahim, one of several victims at the Iraqi soccer stadium who were soldiers in the fight against the Islamic State, died 13 years after his brother was felled by U.S. forces in 2003.
艾赫迈德·易卜拉辛(Ahmed Ibrahim)是伊拉克足球场的遇害者之一，他是曾和伊斯兰国作战的战士，13年前，他的一个兄弟被美军打死。
Two brothers, Sabah and Mohammed Durayib, were buried in the Shiite holy city of Najaf — next to their father, killed by al-Qaida five years before.
萨巴和穆罕迈德·杜拉伊布(Sabah and Mohammed Durayib)兄弟葬在什叶派圣城纳杰夫——和五年前被基地组织杀死的父亲在一起。
Surviving relatives and friends held close the last moments with loved ones, parsing them for deeper meanings.
仍在世的亲属和朋友回忆着与挚爱亲朋诀别的瞬间，希望从中找到更深刻的含义。
A mother in Iraq bathed her 11-year-old son, put him in fresh clothes and sent him off to the soccer game. She didn’t feel right about it, and wished he wouldn’t go.
一位伊拉克母亲给11岁的儿子洗了澡，给他换上干净衣服，然后送他去了球场。她当时就感到有些不安，不想让他去。
The snapshots we collected show the moments that make up a life. A bride in her gown, sitting on the floor and eating a snack. A soldier, dapper in his dress uniform. Graduates in cap and gown on their big day.
我们搜集到的照片展现了组成一个生命的种种瞬间。一个穿着长裙的新娘，坐在地上吃着零食。穿着一身精神抖擞的军礼服的士兵。毕业典礼上穿着方帽长袍的毕业生。
A man on horseback, a man strumming a guitar, a man walking a lonely country road surrounded by wildflowers. Reading a book or drinking beer, celebrating a major life event or enjoying a typical family dinner.
一个骑马的男人，一个弹吉他的男人，一个在孤零零的、周围漫布着野花的乡村小路上走着的男人。看书、喝啤酒、庆祝人生大事，或是正和家人一起享用一顿家常的饭菜。
They were killed in the moments that might have made the next set of snapshots.
在他们被杀害那一刻，本可以留下又一组人生影像。
Waiting for a bus, or a subway or a plane. Chilling out at the beach. Lining up for trophies after a soccer match. Praying, riding a bicycle, taking that Sunday stroll in a park.
等公交车、地铁或飞机。在海滩小憩。在一场足球赛后列队领取奖杯。祈祷，骑车，周日在公园漫步。
What emerges is a tapestry of lives interrupted, splayed out gradually in those photographs, in anecdotal shards or bits of memory shared by those left behind, in the details of their dreams and the things left undone.
在这些照片上，在其身后人只言片语的记忆里，在他们的梦想和未竟事业的细节间，我们看到，许许多多突然中止的生命在徐徐展开。