PART I
第一部分
The Beginning
源起
They were two pretty young women in search of pork ribs for a barbecue later that day, a Saturday in the summer of 2013. Janeth Páez suggested that they stop by a grocery store not far from where her friend Laura Vega Garzón lived in northern Bogotá. Janeth’s boyfriend’s cousin, William, a sweet young man with a thick country accent, worked behind the butcher counter there, expertly filleting beef and cutting pigs’ feet that his customers liked to boil with beans. Janeth was sure he would give her and Laura a cut rate on the ribs.
2013年夏天的某个星期六，两个漂亮的年轻姑娘正在找烧烤用的猪肋排。珍妮思·帕兹建议去一家杂货店看看，那儿离她的朋友劳拉·维加·加尔松在北波哥大的住处不远。珍妮思男友的表哥威廉是个可爱的年轻人，操一口浓重乡音。他在一家肉铺工作，最擅长片牛肉和切猪蹄——人们喜欢把这两样和豆子一起炖。珍妮思肯定他会给她和劳拉的排骨打折。
As Laura walked into the grocery store, catching up with Janeth, she was surprised to spot someone she knew. Behind the butcher counter was a colleague from her job at Strycon, an engineering firm. She gave him a big wave. He hardly acknowledged her. ‘‘That’s Jorge!’’ she told Janeth. ‘‘He works in my office.’’ He was a well-­liked 24-year-old who worked a few floors up from her, designing pipes for oil transport, so she was surprised to see him waiting on customers in the shop.
劳拉走进杂货店，和珍妮思会合。她很惊讶居然撞见一个熟人。在肉铺柜台后面的人是她在Strycon工程公司的同事。她使劲朝他挥手，可是他居然认不出她。“他是乔治！”她告诉珍妮思。“他和我在一个办公楼工作。”他年方24岁，讨人喜欢，在她的上面几层楼工作：给石油运输设计管道。她很吃惊他此时竟在店里伺候客人。
‘‘Oh, no, that’s William,’’ Janeth said. William was a hard worker and rarely left that butcher counter, except to sleep. He definitely did not work at Strycon.
“不是，那是威廉，”珍妮思说。威廉工作勤奋，除睡觉外很少离开肉铺。他不可能在Strycon任职。
‘‘No, it’s Jorge — I know him,’’ Laura said. But he was not smiling back at her, which was strange. A few minutes later, he came out from behind the counter to say a quick hello, embracing Janeth. Janeth introduced him to Laura as William.
“不，那就是乔治——我认识他，”劳拉说。可“乔治”没对她报以微笑，这太怪了。几分钟后，他从柜台后面走来，简单打个招呼，抱了抱珍妮思。珍妮思向劳拉介绍这是威廉。
Laura was baffled: Why was Jorge pretending to be someone else? Maybe, she thought, he was embarrassed to be seen moonlighting this way — the bloodied apron, the white cap. Janeth insisted she was mistaken, but Laura was not convinced. It was almost easier for her to believe that Jorge was playacting as someone else, rather than that there could be two people who looked so much alike. It was not just their similar coloring or the high cheekbones. It was their frame, the texture of their hair, the set of their mouth and dozens of other details that Laura could not have readily identified but that she knew all added up to a rare likeness.
劳拉很疑惑：为什么乔治要假装成另外一个人？她猜，可能他觉得这样的兼职被发现很尴尬——围裙染血，头戴白帽。珍妮思坚持是她搞错了，但劳拉不信。她宁可相信是乔治在假扮其他人，而不是世上有两人长得如此相似。不仅仅是相似的肤色和高颧骨，还有他们的身材、发质、嘴型及其他劳拉来不及辨认的种种细节，都聚合成极其稀有的相似度。
The following Monday at Strycon, Laura told Jorge about her funny misunderstanding with his double at the butcher counter. Jorge laughed and told her that he did have a twin, named Carlos, but that they looked nothing like each other.
周一，回到Strycon公司，劳拉告诉乔治她很抱歉在肉铺认错了他。乔治笑着说，他的确有个双胞胎兄弟卡洛斯，但他们长得完全不像。
At that moment, Jorge had before him sufficient evidence to suggest that his life was not what he thought it was, that his family was not what he thought it was. But there is a saying that Carlos, a man of many sayings, sometimes applied to Jorge: ‘‘The blindest man is the one who does not want to see.’’
在那一刻，已经有充足的证据表明，乔治的真正生活和他所习惯的完全不同，他的家庭也和他所习惯的完全不同。但是的确像卡洛斯有时说乔治的那样：“最大的盲目就是拒绝去看。”
The Photo, The Truth
照片与真相
A month later, Laura told Janeth that there was an opening in the drafting department at Strycon, and Janeth landed the job. Soon after, she saw Jorge for the first time and immediately understood Laura’s confusion at the butcher counter. The two men had the same soft brown eyes. Same bouncy, feet-­splayed walk. Same bright, flashy smile. She didn’t feel as though she knew Jorge well enough to bring the resemblance up with him, but she did show William a photo of Jorge; William laughed and showed it around the butcher shop but chalked it up to coincidence.
一个月后，劳拉告诉珍妮思，Strycon公司的设计部有个空位，而珍妮思得到了那个职位。很快，她就和乔治见了第一面，并且立刻明白了劳拉在肉铺的困惑。他们两个有着同样的柔褐色眼睛，同样蹦蹦跳跳、双脚朝外的走路方式，同样明亮的微笑。她不知道自己和乔治有没有熟悉到能提这件事的地步，但她给威廉看了乔治的照片；威廉大笑，还在肉铺里给人传看，但把这归咎于巧合。
After six months, Janeth left Strycon for another job, but even then, whenever she and her boyfriend ran into William, she wondered if she should have told Jorge about his double. That question tugged at her until finally, on Sept. 9, 2014, a slow day at her new job, Janeth texted Laura an image of William to show Jorge.
半年后，珍妮思跳槽离开Strycon。但即便在那时，无论什么时候她和男友遇到威廉，她都在想自己是否该跟乔治提起酷似他的那个人。这个问题苦苦困扰着她，直到2014年9月9日，在新单位难得清闲的一天，珍妮思给劳拉发了威廉的照片以给乔治看。
Laura went upstairs to piping to get Jorge’s reaction to the photo. Jorge, smiling, took a look at her phone. He swore. ‘‘That’s me!’’ he said. He stared at the image.
劳拉上楼去设计部看乔治对照片的反应。乔治笑着看了一眼她的手机，突然恼道：“那明明是我！”他瞪着照片。
William was wearing a yellow Colombian soccer jersey, practically a national uniform on the day of big matches. Jorge often wore one just like it, which made it all the more apparent just how thoroughly the young man in the photo looked like him. A friend was walking by Jorge’s desk, and Jorge flagged him down for a second opinion.
威廉穿着一件很流行的黄色哥伦比亚足球队服，只要有球赛大家都这么穿，乔治也经常穿，所以他和照片中人的相似程度就更加明显。一个朋友正经过乔治的办公桌，于是乔治拦住他，想问问旁人的意见。
‘‘Tell me what you think of this photo,’’ he told his friend, handing him the phone.
“你觉得这张照片怎么样？”他跟朋友说，把手机递给他。
You look fine, the friend said.
你看起来挺好。朋友回答。
‘‘Except it’s not me,’’ Jorge said. He could not stop staring at Laura’s phone.
“但这人不是我，”乔治说，目不转睛地盯着劳拉的手机。
Jorge gave up on getting any work done. He sat down with Laura in the office kitchen so they could talk. Maybe his father, who was never more than an occasional visitor to their home, had another child he never mentioned. Jorge started flipping through more of William’s Facebook images, now on his own phone. Uneasily, he noted one of William in a butcher’s smock, looking just the way Jorge did on the rare days he had to wear a lab coat. He glanced at a picture of William holding a shot glass, a friend by his side.
乔治没法继续工作。他和劳拉在公司食堂坐下谈话。也许他那个偶尔来访的父亲有一个他从未提及的孩子。乔治开始用自己的手机浏览威廉在Facebook上的更多照片。他好不容易发现了一张威廉穿屠夫罩衫的照片，看上去和自己在实验室穿白大褂的形象一模一样。他瞟了眼威廉手举酒杯的照片，一个友人站在身旁。
Jorge moved to his desktop computer so he could see the images more closely. He clicked once more on the photo of William and the friend holding shot glasses. Now that the image was large, he could examine what he had failed, incredibly, to notice when he looked at the photo on his phone. He leaned in close, his nose practically touching the screen. The man’s hair was slicked up like a rooster’s crown, and the shirt was all wrong. But there was the full lower lip and thick brown hair that Jorge knew well. The buttons on the man’s shirt were straining slightly at the hint of a potbelly, in a way that was intimately familiar. Jorge felt a rush of confusion, and then his stomach dropped. The friend sitting next to his double had a face that Jorge knew better than his own: It was the face of his fraternal twin brother, Carlos.
然后，乔治打开他的台式电脑，又点开威廉和朋友手持酒杯的照片。现在有了大图，他向前凑近电脑，鼻子几乎贴上屏幕，他可以细究用手机时没能注意到的细节。那家伙把头发精心打扮成鸡冠状，服装也完全不对。但有着乔治熟悉的丰厚下唇和棕色的粗发。那家伙的衬衫纽扣有一些绷紧，显出啤酒肚，这体态也是熟悉的。乔治感到一阵疑惑，之后心一沉。坐在和他长得相像的人身旁的那个友人，乔治对那个人的脸比对自己的脸更熟悉：那是他的双胞胎兄弟，卡洛斯。
Jorge And Carlos
乔治和卡洛斯
After work that day, Jorge walked as usual to the small university he attended at night, staring all the while at the images on his phone. After class, he took a bus home, where he planned to tell Carlos about the day’s events.
当天工作结束后，乔治像平常那样步行去夜校，一路盯着手机上的照片。课后，他乘公交车回家，并打算告诉卡洛斯今天的事。
Growing up, Carlos was the twin who aced the homework and Jorge the twin who copied it. Now they were each doing well; Carlos worked at an accounting firm during the day and was also completing a degree at night. The small but comfortable two-­bedroom duplex they shared in a middle-­class neighborhood was already a step up from their childhood home. Their mother, a housekeeper, raised them and their older sister, Diana, in one small room of a house in Bogotá that their grandmother owned. They never considered themselves deprived; they crammed a television and a refrigerator into that room, and the public schools in their neighborhood were good. But they had more now — Jorge could travel to soccer matches, Carlos could go clubbing — and it pained all three siblings that their mother, who died of stomach cancer four years earlier, had not lived long enough that they could give her a better life.
兄弟俩的成长过程中，卡洛斯总是成绩高分的一方，乔治则是忙于抄他作业的一方。现在他们都过得不错；卡洛斯白天在一家会计事务所工作，晚上则攻读学位。他们在一个中产阶级社区里同住，房子有两间卧室，已经比他们童年的家好了不少。他们的母亲，一位女帮佣，把他们和大姐戴安娜养大。当时，祖母家在波哥大，他们住在其中的一个小房间里。可他们从来不觉得自己缺少什么；他们在房间里塞进一台电视、一个冰箱，而且那里的公立学校质量不错。他们现在的生活更丰富——乔治可以去看球赛，卡洛斯可以去夜总会——但让三姐弟遗憾的是，母亲在四年前因胃癌去世，没能活到过上好日子的时候。
As he rode the bus home, Jorge tried to decide what, exactly, he would say to Carlos. He had already told Diana about the photos. ‘‘Just don’t tease Carlos about it,’’ she said.
乔治乘公交车回家时，他在试图决定具体怎么跟卡洛斯说。他已经跟戴安娜说了照片的事。“别跟卡洛斯开这个的玩笑，”她说。
At home, Jorge found his brother on the phone, as usual, with a woman. Jorge told him to hang up.
回到家，乔治发现他的兄弟像往常一样，在跟女人煲电话粥。乔治让他挂掉。
‘‘Stop annoying me,’’ Carlos told him. This was their dynamic: Carlos bristling, and Jorge, pestering, joking and darting around him, never letting up. The angrier Carlos would get, the funnier it all was to Jorge.
“别烦我，”卡洛斯说。这就是他们相处的方式：卡洛斯发火，而乔治缠着他玩笑、调侃，一刻不停。卡洛斯越生气，乔治越觉得好笑。
Finally, Carlos finished his call. Jorge decided he would try to keep the mood light. He opened with a question: ‘‘What would you say if I told you I had an identical twin?’’ Carlos did not look amused.
卡洛斯终于打完了电话。乔治决定尽量保持气氛轻松。他抛出个问题开场：“如果我告诉你我有个长得一样的双胞胎兄弟，你会说什么？”卡洛斯看起来没被逗笑。
Jorge tried again: ‘‘Do you believe in telenovelas?’’
乔治继续尝试：“你相信肥皂剧吗？”
Carlos was losing patience. If Jorge had something to tell him, he should just come out with it. Jorge sat Carlos down in front of the laptop in his bedroom and started clicking on photos, showing him the one of William in the Colombia jersey and others at the butcher shop. Carlos laughed alongside him, giddy with the strangeness of the similarity. Then Jorge clicked on the photo of William alongside Carlos’s double, shot glasses in hand.
卡洛斯渐渐失去耐心。如果乔治想告诉他什么，他应该开门见山。乔治让卡洛斯坐在卧室的笔记本电脑前面，开始接连点开照片，给他看威廉穿哥伦比亚队服和在肉铺的照片。卡洛斯在旁边笑着，被这奇特的相像程度搞得眼花缭乱。之后乔治点开威廉和酷似卡洛斯的人的照片，画面里两人举着酒杯。
Unlike Jorge, whose first reaction to the photo was to lean in and stare, Carlos snapped back as if something had pushed him, hard, in the chest. ‘‘Who are they?’’ he asked. He was furious.
卡洛斯的第一反应不像乔治那样凑近照片、仔细盯看，而是猛地退后，像是胸口被狠狠推了一下。他大为震惊：“他们是谁？”
Jorge told him everything he learned from Janeth and Laura that day.The young men in the photo were raised on a remote farm in Santander, a mostly rural region to the north, whose locals were caricatured by other Colombians for their hot tempers and attachment to their guns. According to Facebook, they were born, as were Jorge and Carlos, in late December 1988.
乔治跟他讲了当天从珍妮思和劳拉那里了解到的所有情况。照片里的两个年轻人在桑坦德的偏僻农场长大——那是哥伦比业北方最农业化的区域，人们常讽刺当地居民的暴脾气以及对枪支的热爱。根据Facebook上的记载，他们和乔治与卡洛斯一样，在1988年12月末出生。
Perhaps, Jorge said, there had been some kind of a mix-up at the hospital — a nurse who accidentally swapped one baby from one set of identical twins with a baby from another pair. He did not say what that would mean: that either he or Carlos was born to another mother. That they were probably not twins at all — not even biologically related. Nor did either of them acknowledge what both knew: If someone had been accidentally placed in their family, it was almost certainly Carlos.
乔治说，可能是出于意外，医院把他们搞混了，护士把一对双胞胎中的一个和另一对中的一个弄错了。他没说这意味着：他和卡洛斯中的一个是另一位母亲生的。他们可能根本不是双胞胎。甚至毫无血缘关系。两人中也没有一个承认他们已知的事实：这几乎一定是卡洛斯。
That Carlos never looked liked Jorge and Diana was obvious. His siblings shared their mother’s more delicate frame, her high cheekbones, her eyes. Carlos was taller, solidly built, with a wider nose and a heavier brow. The contrast was not merely physical: Carlos had always felt like an outlier in his family, although he preferred to think of himself as independent. As a child, Carlos had no interest in joining the elaborate games of make-­believe that his mother and siblings played, the funny voices they each put on, playacting for hours. Since their mother died, he checked in with Diana far less often than Jorge did. He was the only one in his family who cared about fashion, and God knows he was the only one who could dance. Carlos and Jorge had always assumed that Carlos took after their father, but they did not know him well enough to be sure.
很明显，卡洛斯从来就长得不像乔治和戴安娜。他的兄姊拥有母亲的柔和身材、高颧骨和眼睛。卡洛斯更高，更健壮，鼻梁更宽，眉毛也更浓。对比不仅是身体上的：卡洛斯总感觉像家庭里的局外人，尽管他更倾向于把这当成独立性。在孩提时代，卡洛斯就没有兴趣参与母亲和兄姊精心组织的扮演游戏，他们用滑稽的嗓音说话，一演就是几小时。母亲过世后，他联系戴安娜的次数比乔治少得多。他是家里唯一关心时尚的人，而且天知道他为什么是唯一会跳舞的。卡洛斯和乔治一直假定卡洛斯更随他们的父亲，但他们对父亲都没有熟悉到能确定这点的地步。
Carlos’s sense of distance, however, had not diminished his attachment to his mother. He had always adored her; she was strong if not exactly tough — when he and Jorge fought, she would hit them with a fluffy house slipper, which inevitably made them laugh, possibly her intended result. As meager as her resources had been, she made sure that each child could go to a good school and instilled in them the sense of a limitless future. Carlos credited her with all he had achieved so far.
然而，卡洛斯的距离感并没有消减他对母亲的依恋。他一直爱着她；母亲并不算强势，但性格坚韧，当他和乔治打架时，她会用毛茸拖鞋打他们。他们乐得开怀大笑，或许这也是她的目的。尽管资源紧缺，她依然确保每个孩子都能上好学校，并且给他们传达出前途无量的感觉。卡洛斯把他至今的所有成就都归功于她。
Sitting beside Jorge in his bedroom, Carlos shut the laptop and fell silent. He headed into his room and closed the door. Jorge followed him, saying things that Carlos knew were meant to make him feel better — no matter what, even if one of us was exchanged, we’re still brothers — but that made him feel only more isolated. ‘‘Look,’’ he told Jorge, ‘‘let’s just drop it.’’ He told Jorge never to bother him with the subject again.
卡洛斯坐在卧室里的乔治身旁，关掉电脑，陷入沉默。他回到自己的房间，关上了门。乔治尾随他，说着让卡洛斯感觉好些的话，卡洛斯也知道——无论如何，即使我们中的一个是被换来的，我们还是兄弟——但那让他感觉更孤立了。他跟乔治说：“咱们还是别谈这事了。”他让乔治再也别用这个话题困扰他。
That night, Carlos barely slept. He couldn’t make sense of any of it. How could his mother not have been the one to carry him — to create him? He had grieved for her once; now he grieved again, as if losing her a second time. He felt unmoored, powerless, alone.
当晚，卡洛斯失眠了。他不明白他的母亲怎么可能不是带他到世间的人。他曾为她哀悼过；现在他再次追念，如同再次失去了她。他感到漂泊、无力、孤独。
Down the hall, Jorge slept like a child.
而走廊的另一端，乔治像孩童般熟睡。
William and Wilber
威廉和威尔伯
The next day, soon after William opened the butcher shop, his cousin Brian — Janeth’s boyfriend — arrived for his 12-hour shift. William, who had quickly been promoted to manager of the shop, was happy to hire Brian, a part-time student. He felt closer, in many ways, to Brian than he did to his fraternal twin brother, Wilber. Brian grew up in Bogotá, and when William first arrived in the capital in 2009, the two cousins spent long days baking and selling corn cakes on the street, in the rain, in the heat, passing the time making their customers and themselves laugh. William and Wilber could never spend that many hours together without getting on each other’s nerves. When Wilber later worked for William at the butcher shop, it irked William that his brother was always cleaning up when he should have been waiting on customers and that he resisted William’s authority; Wilber was moody, William thought, and could never take a joke.
第二天，威廉的肉铺刚开门，他的表弟布莱恩，也是珍妮思的男友，就来干他的12小时轮班。威廉早就被提升为店内经理，并且很愿意雇用兼职学生布莱恩。在很多方面，他都感觉和布莱恩更亲近，远甚和他的双胞胎兄弟威尔伯的关系。布莱恩在波哥大长大，而当威廉第一次在2009年造访首都时，这对表兄弟每天花很长时间烘焙玉米蛋糕，在街道上贩卖，无论晴雨，并逗得顾客和他们一起大笑。但威廉和威尔伯从不可能一起呆这么长时间还不吵架。当威尔伯后来在肉铺给威廉工作时，威廉总是很恼火，因为他的兄弟本该招呼顾客，却忙着清理打扫，还不服从威廉的管理。威廉认为，威尔伯总是喜怒无常，而且根本开不起玩笑。
As Brian and William set up the shop, Brian explained that the previous evening, Janeth showed him photos that were very confusing, of young men who looked just like Wilber and William. William was amused, intrigued. He remembered that Janeth had shown him that photo of his double months back. But this coincidence sounded even stranger. He texted Janeth and asked to see the photos. As soon as the first one arrived, William let out a scream — ‘‘Ahiii!’’ — and then laughed.
开门时，布莱恩解释说前一晚，珍妮思给他看了奇怪的照片，照片里的年轻人看起来很像威尔伯和威廉。威廉觉得好笑又好奇。他想起来，珍妮思在几个月前给他看过那个酷似他的人的照片。但是这个巧合听起来甚至更奇特。他给珍妮思发了短信，说想看看那些照片。第一张照片刚刚过来时，威廉就“啊！”地尖叫起来，然后开始大笑。
Maybe, Janeth suggested to William by text, either he or his brother had been sick and was brought from Santander to a hospital in Bogotá. William got in touch with an aunt, who told him that, yes, he had been sent to a hospital in Bogotá right after he was born. He and Wilber were delivered at just 28 weeks, and William had digestive problems. The aunt said he was treated at the Materno Infantil in the city.
珍妮思发短信给威廉说，可能他或他的兄弟曾经生过病，从桑坦德被带到波哥大的医院。威廉和姨妈联系，得知的确如此，他在出生后不久就被送到了波哥大的医院。他和威尔伯刚出生28周，威廉就有了消化问题。姨妈说他在城里的母婴医院接受过治疗。
He passed this along to Janeth, who said that she would try to find out from Jorge where he was born. If Jorge was delivered at the Materno Infantil, Janeth texted, it would be clear: There must have been a swap.
他把这件事告诉珍妮思，后者说她准备问乔治他的出生地点。珍妮思在短信里讲，如果乔治在母婴医院出生，就很清楚了：他们一定被换过。
Until that moment, William, like Janeth, had been caught up in the fun and suspense of piecing together the information. But now a wave of anxiety swept over him. He had always looked different from his family and wanted different things — a life bigger than the farm. But he never considered the possibility that he might actually be different — that he might not be theirs. He looked around at the butcher shop; he could barely take in the oblivious customers, the hunks of bloodied flesh, his concerned cousin. He walked out of the store, heading upstairs to his third-floor apartment in the same building. From there, he compulsively texted Janeth to see if she had any information about the name of the hospital where Jorge was born.
直到那时，威廉和珍妮思一样，还处在拼凑信息的乐趣与悬疑中。但现在，焦虑的巨浪淹没了他。他一直都和家人长相不同，想要的也不一样——他想要农场之外的生活。但他从未考虑过一个可能性：他真的不一样——他不属于他们。他在肉铺里环顾四周；他无法顾及不知情的顾客、一块块带血的肉和他的表弟。他走出商店，上到楼内三层的公寓里。发短信给珍妮思，想知道她是否知道乔治出生的医院。
A few minutes later, William stumbled back into the shop and showed Brian a text from Janeth. Jorge and Carlos were, in fact, delivered at Materno Infantil. ‘‘Confirmed,’’ William said. Then he sat on a bench in the back of the shop and broke into heaving sobs. Every thought tumbled into another equally painful one. He had been snatched from his rightful place. He was a missing person no one had known to miss. How would he tell his mother? She had six children, but he was the one who sent her money. He was the one who worried about her when she was sick and who tried, when he was young, to cheer her up if she was blue, smothering her with hugs and kisses and biting her gently on her ears to make her laugh. The news, he knew, would break her heart; it was already breaking his.
几分钟后，威廉蹒跚回到商店，给布莱恩看了珍妮思发的短信。乔治和卡洛斯的确是在母婴医院出生的。“确定了，”威廉说。之后，他在店后的长凳坐下，爆发出一阵啜泣声。他处在极度痛苦之中——正当身份被剥离，没有人知道他被抱错。他该怎么跟他的母亲讲？她有六个孩子，他是唯一给她寄钱的一个。当她生病时，他是最担心的一个。在她伤心时，当时年幼的他是哄她开心的那一个。他的拥抱和亲吻让她窒息，他轻轻咬她的耳朵，让她笑起来。他知道，这桩新闻会让她心碎。它已经让他心碎了。
William had spoken to his mother harshly only once, a few years earlier. He had just finished serving in the military and had served well, winning, among 92 soldiers in his platoon, a top prize that guaranteed him a scholarship to petty-­officer training, a leadership track that would provide him with an education and a significant jump in status. It turned out, however, that the military could not give him the scholarship after all; his parents had taken him out of school when he was 12, and he did not have the equivalent of a high-school diploma. ‘‘You should have let me go to school,’’ he yelled at his mother when he was home in Santander. The closest high school was a five-hour walk away, so the family would have needed money to house him, plus money for uniforms and entrance fees, while also incurring the cost of losing his labor on the farm. Even still, William felt that his mother should have found a way, been resourceful, fought with everything she had. He would have fought for it himself, but at 12, what could he have done?
他只跟母亲态度强硬地说过一次话，那是几年前了。他刚服完兵役，而且表现出色。在团内的92个士兵里，他赢了最高奖，可以因此受士官训练。这条晋升路线将大力提升他的教育水平和社会地位。然而，部队不能给他奖学金，他没有高中学历，12岁时家里就让他辍学了。“你当初应该让我去上学，”他在桑坦德的家中时对母亲喊道。可是到最近的高中也要步行五小时，所以家里需要钱为他租房，还要支付校服费和学费，更别提农场失去一个劳动力的损失。尽管如此，威廉依然认为母亲应该想尽办法支持他。他应该奋力为自己争取，但当时年仅12岁的他能做什么呢？
As he wept on the bench, he was experiencing the first wash of feelings that he would be able to articulate only in time: his sense of his mother’s guilt and worry; the lost opportunity to grow up going to school in Bogotá, instead of working in the fields, hauling crops; his grief over how different he had always felt from the rest of his family, a family who loved him but nonetheless teased him for not quite fitting in. Brian, stunned, sitting beside him on the bench, did not know what to say. There was no ready language for a situation like this. After about 10 minutes, to Brian’s relief, William stopped crying and stood up. William knew how to work, so that is what he would do. They went back inside and started cleaning the counter, putting away utensils, waiting for their next customers.
他在长凳上哭泣，第一次经历了他只能在当时描述的奔涌情感：他感受到母亲的内疚与担忧；他失去了在波哥大长大上学的机会，只能在田间劳动、搬运粮食；他因与家人不同而悲痛，家人们爱他，但也因为他不合群取笑他。布莱恩震惊地坐在长凳上，在他的旁边，不知该说什么，完全无力应对。大约10分钟后，布莱恩松了口气，威廉不再哭泣，站了起来。他们回到店里，开始清理柜台，摆开器具，等待下一个客人。
Eventually, William texted Wilber, who was working at a different butcher shop that day, and told him he needed to come right away. When Wilber arrived later that afternoon, William said he had to show him something and clicked, on his phone, on a photo of Jorge and Carlos. Immediately, Wilber saw, with total clarity, what it took everyone else hours to grasp.
最终，威廉给正在另一家肉铺工作的威尔伯打了电话，并让他尽快赶来。威尔伯在下午赶到，威廉告诉他要给他看些东西。他点开手机上乔治和卡洛斯的照片。威尔伯一眼看出其他人几小时才明白的真相。
‘‘So we were swapped,’’ Wilber said, shrugging, annoyed by the sense of momentousness William seemed to want to attach to the photo. ‘‘I don’t care who they are. You’re my brother, and you’ll be my brother until the day I die.’’
“就是说，我们被换了，”威尔伯说，耸耸肩，为威廉把照片看得意义重大而恼怒。“我不管他们是谁。你是我的兄弟，直到我死，你都是我的兄弟。”
Face To Face
面对面
Every so often, sometimes within hours of conception but usually several days later, the forces that bind newly dividing cells, holding them into one coherent mass, somehow give way. Instead of clinging together in a cluster that will form one person months later and eventually one self, those dividing cells split into two independent entities, each with its own furiously dividing cells. They are separate but the same, with every nucleus of every cell carrying identical DNA. Identical twins start their lives as fluke accidents, a wondrous result of a systemic glitch.
偶尔，把刚分裂的细胞凝聚在一起所需的力量会莫名其妙失去控制。这种情况有时发生在怀孕几小时之后，但通常是在几天之后。这些分裂的细胞不会聚成一团并在几个月后形成同一个人，而是成为两个个体，各自拥有猛烈分裂的细胞。虽然分离，却也相同，每个细胞的细胞核都带有相同的DNA。同卵双胞胎的生命始于侥幸的意外，一个系统故障的奇妙结果。
The formation of fraternal twins is far more mundane. Two separate sperm meet two different eggs, creating a litter of two. Fraternal twins are no more genetically alike than any other two siblings, their only trick one of simultaneity: They are conceived and born at roughly the same time.
异卵双胞胎的形成过程就平凡多了。两个精子遇见两个卵子，成为两个产儿。异卵双胞胎的基因相似度和两个普通的兄弟姐妹没有任何不同。他们唯一的特异之处在于同时性：他同时形成，同时出生。
The four young men in Bogotá had each been raised as a fraternal twin, an identity in and of itself. Now, they realized, they were each an identical twin, part of a matched pair. Even before the four brothers met, each was already, unknowingly, aligning himself with the sibling with whom he shared a womb. Carlos and Wilber were cautious, convinced that no one should pursue the matter any further — who knew what trouble these people could bring. William and Jorge, however, were open to the possibility of an encounter. Within hours of the revelation, Janeth had arranged for William and Jorge to meet in a public square at 9 that evening, soon after William closed up the butcher shop.
波哥大的两对年轻人都以异卵双胞胎的身份被养大。现在，他们意识到，自己其实是两对同卵双胞胎。即使在四兄弟相遇前，他们中的每一个已经不知不觉地把自己和同子宫的兄弟联系起来。卡洛斯和威尔伯都很谨慎，认为不该进一步处理此事——谁知道这些人会带来什么麻烦。然而威廉和乔治却愿意接受相遇的可能性。在真相大白的几小时内，珍妮思安排威廉肉铺关门后不久和乔治晚上9点在公共广场见面。
Wilber, initially averse to meeting the other brothers, felt increasingly curious as he looked at the pictures; he wanted to go, too. Around 3 p.m., William spoke to Jorge for the first time and asked if he could invite Wilber, along with Brian and Janeth. He was relieved when Jorge said yes. Both noticed that their voices did not sound alike. William’s was huskier, and of course there was the Santander accent. William also called Jorge ‘‘sir,’’ a formality typical of people from the countryside. Jorge thought he liked this person’s voice; he sounded not just nice, but good.
威尔伯起初并不乐意见到另一对兄弟，看过照片后却愈发好奇；他也想去。下午3点左右，威廉第一次和乔治谈话，并问他能否邀请威尔伯来，以及布莱恩和珍妮思。乔治同意了，威廉松了口气。他们都注意到他们的声音并不相似。威廉的声音更沙哑而雄壮，而且自然带有桑坦德口音。威廉还称呼乔治“先生”，一种典型的乡下人礼节。乔治觉得自己喜欢这个人的声音；又友好，又动听。
As the hour grew closer, William went quiet from nerves. He took off from work to get a haircut. He put on his best sweater, which is black with gray stripes. He strapped on his gun, which he wore as a matter of course ever since he served in the military. He paced.
时间迫近时，威廉从平静变为紧张。他离开工作去理发。他穿上自己最好的黑底灰条毛衣，把枪系在身上，这是他服兵役以来的习惯。他不停地踱步。
Across town, Jorge was also feeling jittery. He had asked his brother to go with him, but Carlos had a date he was not willing to cancel. When Jorge ran into a friend from the university, he spontaneously asked him to join him for moral support.
城镇的另一边，乔治也感到不安。他问兄弟是否愿意和他一起去，但卡洛斯有个不想取消的约会。当乔治遇见的一位大学同学时，他主动请他加入，以提供精神支持。
At the appointed time, Jorge stood in the square, looking around. His palms were damp, and he could hardly breathe from the sensation of pressure he felt in his stomach. Within minutes, a group started walking toward him. There was William — with Jorge’s face, walking just as Jorge did, with that roll and the funny spread of his feet.
约定的时间到了，乔治站在广场上环顾四周。他手心潮湿，因为胃部的压力感呼吸困难。几分钟内，一队人朝他走来。威廉在其中——他有乔治的脸，像乔治一样走路，蹦蹦跳跳，脚尖滑稽地朝外。
Brian filmed the encounter on his phone. With the sound turned off, the nervous chatter muted, the video captures Jorge and William engaging in what looks like some kind of a highly choreographed, ritualized pantomime. William stares at Jorge, as Jorge looks off to the side; then William turns his head away, as if intuitively giving Jorge the chance to stare at his face, which he does, looking him up and down. The two stare directly at each other — there’s a moment of eye contact that is shockingly intimate, and an exchange of smiles — and then they each look quickly away. As they keep stealing glimpses of each other, they look the way lovers might when they are on the brink of confessing, for the first time, to a mutual infatuation. Jorge pulls himself together, looks at William a bit more appraisingly; Jorge is chewing gum, and his jaw is working hard. He puts his hand on his cheek, pressing his own flesh: Yes, this is me. That person over there, that is him. William is quiet, shifting his weight so that he appears to be swaying from side to side. (‘‘It was like staring through a mirror, and on the other side of the mirror, there’s a parallel universe,’’ Jorge would say later.)
布莱恩用手机录制这场相遇。他关掉声音，紧张的话语归为无言，视频里乔治和威廉仿佛在参加一场事先编好的、仪式化的哑剧。威廉盯着乔治，而乔治看向一边；之后威廉转开头，好像是本能地给乔治盯着他的机会。乔治的确这么做了，从上到下地打量他。两人直直地盯着对方，有那么一刻，他们的视线交流惊人地亲密，并互相报以微笑。之后他们各自飞快地转开视线。他们偷偷瞟着对方，就像情人处于首次表露相恋心迹的边缘。乔治尽量保持稳重，以略微挑剔的目光看着威廉；乔治在嚼口香糖，他的下颌十分忙碌。他把手放在脸上，按着自己的肌肉：对，这就是我。那边的那个人，就是他。威廉很沉默，不停变换重心，看起来左右摇晃。（“这就像看穿一面镜子，而在镜子的另一头，有一个平行宇宙，”乔治之后表示。）
It was easier, clearly, for Jorge to turn his gaze to Wilber, the double of Carlos. Jorge stares at Wilber and shakes his head. Wilber had seen the photos of Carlos, who wore glasses. ‘‘All I need are the glasses!’’ Wilber said. He let out a high-­pitched giggle, and Jorge felt that pressure in his chest again: That was Carlos’s laugh.
而乔治把视线转向威尔伯——第二个卡洛斯——就容易多了。乔治看着威尔伯，同他握手。威尔伯看过卡洛斯戴眼镜的照片。“我唯一需要的就是眼镜！”威尔伯说。他高声笑起来，乔治的胸膛里又感受到那种压力：那是卡洛斯的笑声。
Having seen how much William looked like Jorge, Wilber was now eager to meet Carlos. Jorge called ahead to say they were coming, and the group piled into two taxis, heading over to Jorge and Carlos’s apartment.
看过威廉和乔治有多像以后，威尔伯现在急于和卡洛斯会面。乔治先打电话说他们要来，于是两队人马坐进两辆出租车，前往乔治和卡洛斯的公寓。
Around 10, Carlos heard the doorbell ring. He walked to the door and then stood there, paralyzed: He could barely bring himself to answer. He knew it was Jorge and those men from the photos. Those people were not just strangers; they were stranger than strangers, players in a story about his life over which he had little control.
大约10点钟，卡洛斯听到门铃响了。他走到门前，然后麻木地站在那里，无力应答。他知道这是乔治和照片里的人。那些人不只是陌生人；他们比陌生人还陌生，是他的生活游戏的玩家，这个游戏难以控制。
‘‘Open the door!’’ Jorge commanded. Carlos heard a giggle: It was his own, but it was not coming from him, or maybe it was.
“开门！”乔治命令。卡洛斯听到一阵吃吃的笑：那是他的笑声，却不是从他而来，或许，也可能是来自他。
‘‘I don’t want to,’’ Carlos said. ‘‘I’m scared.’’ The moments ticked by, then two, with Carlos laughing nervously on one side, Wilber laughing on the other. ‘‘Carlos, open it!’’ Jorge told him again. You cannot block the sun with one finger, their mother used to say.
“我不想，”卡洛斯说。“我怕。”时间滴答流逝，之后有两人笑起来，卡洛斯在一边紧张地笑着，威尔伯则在另一边。“卡洛斯，开门！”乔治再次跟他说。识时务吧。他们的母亲曾如是说。
Carlos opened the door, and the group filed in, like a procession from a dream. There was Jorge, and there was his double — it was Jorge in a strange sweater; Jorge, only quiet; Jorge without the cool confidence. There was some woman, and some other guy. And then there he was — Carlos was staring at himself, an altered version of himself, a funny photocopy, a joke, a nightmare.
卡洛斯打开门，一群人鱼贯而入，如同从来自梦中。先是乔治，之后是他的酷似者——穿着奇怪毛衣的乔治；是乔治，是缺少冷静自信的乔治。然后是某个女人，再是某个男人。然后就是他了——卡洛斯盯着自己，一个改版的自己，一个可笑的影印，一个笑话，一个噩梦。
Carlos looked at Wilber, his mirror image. They took a quick peek at each other — they both shouted ‘‘Ay!’’ and turned their backs, covering their eyes, each turning red. Wilber started speaking, but Carlos was having a hard time catching what he was saying. Instead of rolling his R’s, Wilber spoke with hard D’s. The speech impediment! Carlos had one as a child but overcame it with speech therapy.
卡洛斯看着威尔伯，他的镜像。他们快速地偷看对方一眼——他们同时喊道“哎！”，然后转过身，遮住眼睛，脸上泛红。威尔伯开始讲话，但卡洛斯不明白他在说什么。威尔伯发的不是卷舌的R音，而是硬邦邦的D音。语言障碍！卡洛斯年幼时也有，但后来通过语言矫正克服了。
All four started comparing notes, quizzing one another, finding out which essential qualities the identical twins shared. Who were the crybabies of the family? Carlos and Wilber! Who had sweet temperaments? Jorge and William! Who were more organized? Carlos and Wilber! Who were the girl-­chasers? Carlos and Wilber! Who were the strongest? Jorge and William!
四个人都开始比较记忆，询问他人，试图找出同卵双胞胎的相似特点。谁是家里最爱哭的？卡洛斯和威尔伯！谁脾气温和？乔治和威廉！谁更有条理？卡洛斯和威尔伯！谁更爱追女孩？卡洛斯和威尔伯！谁更强壮？乔治和威廉！
Even still, while Jorge was seeing sameness with every glance he stole at William, Carlos was seeking differences between him and his country double. ‘‘Look at our hands,’’ Carlos said. ‘‘They’re not the same.’’ Wilber’s were bigger, more swollen, marked with scars from countless quarrels with the knives of the butcher shop and the machetes he used in the fields growing up. Carlos, by contrast, frequently got manicures; his nails, as is not uncommon among male professionals in Colombia, were covered in clear gloss.
尽管如此，乔治还是在不停地偷看着威廉, 而卡洛斯则在寻找自己与他的乡下同胞的不同点。他说：“看，我们的手就不一样。” 威尔伯手更粗大，布满了屠宰店和田间劳作留下的刀斧伤痕。而卡洛斯总去美甲店，指甲富有光泽，这在全哥伦比亚的男性专业士中相当常见。
William asked Jorge about Jorge’s biological mother: How was she? Where was she? Watching William’s face carefully, Jorge told him that their mother died of cancer four years before. He showed him a photo of her as a young woman: long hair clipped back, beautiful eyes set in a kind, serious face. Staring at the photo, William was struck with a new blow of grief; he did not speak for several minutes.
威廉问起乔治的生母：她还好吗？她在哪里？小心翼翼地看着威廉 的脸，乔治告诉他，他们的母亲四年前死于癌症。他给威廉看了他生母年轻时的照片：长发向后梳，善良而严肃的脸上一双美丽的眼睛。 威廉看着照片，再次陷入悲伤，沉默了好几分钟。
For most of the evening, the energy in the apartment was positive and giddy. The young men were enjoying themselves, reveling in the hilarious, specific similarities that were easier to spot than the differences. But for each of them, poised and waiting on the other side of the door was a profound feeling of loss: lost time with parents and siblings, lost opportunities, lost years, lost creation myths. Jorge seemed determined to make sure those feelings were kept at bay, at least for the time being. ‘‘All that has happened,’’ he said to the group, ‘‘is that our families have gotten bigger.’’ Someone called out: ‘‘Favorite soccer team?’’ All four shouted the name of a popular Colombian club team: ‘‘Atletico Nacional!’’
那一夜，公寓里充满了乐观又让人眩目的氛围。四个年轻人陶醉于欣赏他们之间的相似之处，那远比不似之处更易于发现。但每一个人，都深感缺失：父母与兄弟的缺失、机会的缺失、时间的缺失、成长的缺失。乔治看起来坚决要克制这种受损的感情，至少暂时要克制。他对大家说：“真没想到这些事让我们变成个大家庭。”有人喊道：“你最喜欢哪支足球队？”四人同时叫出哥伦比亚最受欢迎的足球队的名字:'马德里竞技队！'
Around midnight, the visitors left, promising to meet again soon. Jorge and Carlos stared at each other in the empty living room. Everything was the same; everything was different. ‘‘So what do we do?’’ Carlos asked. Jorge saw that Carlos had started to cry. Carlos walked over to Jorge to wrap him in a close hug. ‘‘I want to be your brother,’’ he said.
午夜时，人们散去，约定不久再见。乔治和卡洛斯在突然空下来的房间里相互凝视。孰是孰非？“我们怎么办？” 卡洛斯问。乔治看见他开始哭泣。卡洛斯走近乔治，紧紧拥抱着他，说：“我想成为你的兄弟。”
PART 2
第二部分 
When Two Are Like One
合二为一
Identical twins don’t make obvious evolutionary sense; fraternal twins at least have the benefit of genetic diversity, improving the odds that at least one might survive whatever misfortune comes their way. And yet, in their utter inexplicability, identical twins have helped elucidate our most basic understanding of why, and how, we become who we are. By studying the overlap of traits in fraternal twins (who share, on average, 50 percent of their genes) and the overlap of those traits in identical twins (who share 100 percent of their genes), scientists have, for more than a century, been trying to tease out how much variation within a population can be attributed to heredity and how much to environment. ‘‘Twins have a special claim upon our attention,’’ wrote Sir Francis Galton, a British scientist who in the late 19th century was the first to compare twins who looked very much alike with those who did not (although science had not yet distinguished between identical and fraternal pairs). ‘‘It is, that their history affords means of distinguishing between the effects of tendencies received at birth, and those that were imposed by the special circumstances of their after lives.’’
同卵双胞胎并无明显的进化，而异卵双胞胎至少受益于各自基因差异，能提高至少其中一个人在遭受不幸时的生存能力。这其间的奥妙，同卵双胞胎有助于说明我们为什么以及如何成人。通过研究异卵双胞胎的重合特质（他们平均享有50%的相同基因）以及同卵双胞胎的重合物质（他们享有100%的相同基因），一个多世纪来，科学家一直致力于梳理人类有多少变种归因于于遗传，又有多少归因于环境。“双胞胎总是引起我们特殊的注意。”19世纪末期的英国科学家，弗朗西斯·高尔顿爵士写道。他第一个将长得像的双胞胎和长得不像的双胞胎进行比较，当时科学界还不能区别同卵双胞胎和异卵双胞胎。“双胞胎向我们提供了一种区分的方法——区分出生时既得的基因发展趋势所造成的影响，和出生后特殊环境所施加的影响。
Galton, who was Darwin’s cousin, is at least as well known for coining the term ‘‘eugenics’’ as he is for his innovative analysis of twins (having concluded, partly from his research, that healthy, intelligent people should be given incentives to breed more). His scientific successor, Hermann Werner Siemens, a German dermatologist, in the early 1920s conducted the first studies of twins that bear remarkable similarity to those still conducted today. But he also drew conclusions that for decades contaminated the strain of research he pioneered; he supported Hitler’s arguments in favor of ‘‘racial hygiene.’’ In seeking genetic origins for various traits they considered desirable or undesirable, these researchers seemed to be treading dangerously close to the pursuit of a master race.
高尔顿是达尔文的表兄弟，因为对双胞胎的创造性研究，最先提出了“优生学”这个概念而著名（他在部分上从他的研究总结出：健康聪慧的人群应该多生育）。他在科学上的继承者，德国皮肤科医生赫尔曼·沃纳·西门子在1920年代提出最早的关于双胞胎的研究，这与当代的研究有许多相似之处。但他的结论成为希特勒“种族保健法”的理论依据。研究者们似乎渴望创造一个优等民族，要哪种基因，不要哪种基因，都由人定。
Despite periods of controversy, twins studies proliferated. Over the last 50 years, some 17,000 traits have been studied, according to a meta-­analysis led by Tinca Polderman, a Dutch researcher, and Beben Benyamin, an Australian, and published this year in the journal Nature Genetics. Researchers have claimed to divine a genetic influence in such varied traits as gun ownership, voting preferences, homosexuality, job satisfaction, coffee consumption, rule enforcement and insomnia. Virtually wherever researchers have looked, they have found that identical twins’ test results are more similar than those of fraternal twins. The studies point to the influence of genes on almost every aspect of our being (a conclusion so sweeping that it indicates, to some scientists, only that the methodology must be fatally flawed). ‘‘Everything is heritable,’’ says Eric Turkheimer, a behavioral geneticist at the University of Virginia. ‘‘The more genetically related a pair of people are, the more similar they are on any other outcome of interest’’ — whether it be personality, TV watching or political leaning. ‘‘But this can be true without there being some kind of specific mechanism that is driving it, some version of a Huntington’s-­disease gene. It is based on the complex combined effects of an unaccountable number of genes.’’
尽管有过争议，双胞胎研究数量激增。根据荷兰研究者廷卡·坡德曼带领的元分析和澳大利亚人毕本·本雅明今年在《自然遗传学》期刊上发布的信息，在过去的50年里，科学家研究过17000个特征。研究者们声称，他们可以预言基因对多种特征的影响，包括持有枪支、投票选择、同性恋、工作满意度、咖啡摄入、规则执行和失眠。基本上，在研究者调查过的任何地方，他们都发现同卵双胞胎的相似度超过异卵双胞胎。研究指出，基因影响了我们的几乎所有特点（这个结论非常广泛，以至于有些科学家认为方法论一定有致命缺陷）。“一切都是可遗传的，”弗吉尼亚大学的行为遗传学埃里克·托克海姆说。“一对人的基因联系越紧密，他们的结果就越相似”——无论是性格、喜欢的电视节目或政治倾向。“但即使没有某种特定的机制驱使亨丁顿氏舞蹈症，这也成立。它建立在无数基因复杂的联合作用上。”
Arguably the most intriguing branch of twins research involves a small and unusual class of research subjects: identical twins who were reared apart. Thomas Bouchard Jr., a psychologist at the University of Minnesota, began studying them in 1979, when he first learned of Jim and Jim, two Ohio men reunited that year at age 39. They not only looked remarkably similar, but had also vacationed on the same Florida beach, married women with the same first name, divorced those women and married second wives who also shared the same name, smoked the same brand of cigarette and built miniature furniture for fun. Similar in personality as well as in vocal intonation, they seemed to have been wholly formed from conception, impervious to the effects of parenting, siblings or geography. Bouchard went on to research more than 80 identical-­twin pairs reared apart, comparing them with identical twins reared together, fraternal twins reared together and fraternal twins reared apart. He found that in almost every instance, the identical twins, whether reared together or reared apart, were more similar to each other than their fraternal counterparts were for traits like personality and, more controversial, intelligence. One unexpected finding in his research suggested that the effect of a pair’s shared environment — say, their parents — had little bearing on personality. Genes and unique experiences — a semester abroad, an important friend — were more influential.
最有趣的双胞胎研究分支牵涉到一个数量极小且不寻常的研究对象：被分开养育的同卵双胞胎。明尼苏达大学的心理学家小托马斯·布沙尔于1979年开始研究这一领域，那时他刚知道两个吉姆的故事，这两个俄亥俄州人在39岁重逢。他们不仅看起来极为相像，还曾在佛罗里达的同一片海滩度过假，娶了同名的女人，和她们离婚，又娶了同名的第二位妻子，抽同样牌子的烟，爱好是制作微型家具。他们的性格和声调都很相似，像是在胎儿期已经彻底长成，丝毫不受家长、兄弟姐妹和生长地区的影响。布沙尔研究了超过80对被分开养育的同卵双胞胎，并拿他们和一起长大的同卵双胞胎对比。他发现，在几乎所有例子中，无论同卵双胞胎是否一起被养大，都比异卵双胞胎更相似，无论是品性，还是具有争议的智力。他的研究中有一个意想不到的发现，那就是一对孩子共享的环境——比如，他们的父母——对性格影响很小。基因和特殊经历——在海外上学一学期、一个重要的朋友——造成的影响更大。
As pure science, the study of twins reared apart has troubled some researchers. Those twins either self-­select and step forward or become known to researchers through media reports — which are less inclined to cover identical twins who do not look remarkably alike, who did not marry and divorce women of the same name or choose the same obscure hobby. Identical twins who do not look remarkably alike, of course, are also less likely to be spotted and reunited in the first place. And few studies of twins, whether reared apart or reared together, have included twins from extremely different backgrounds.
作为纯科学，分养双胞胎的研究使一些研究者感到困惑。那些双胞胎，要么自己找上门，要么通过媒体报道为研究者所知（这种情况下，长得不像的同卵双胞胎更少被提及。他们没有和同名的女人结婚又离婚，也没有同样艰涩的爱好）。当然，长得不像的同卵双胞胎被发现、之后重逢的概率本身就更小。无论孩子们是否一起长大，很少有人研究了来自极端不同背景的双胞胎。
‘‘Every study will have its critics,’’ says Nancy Segal, a professor at California State University, Fullerton, who worked with Bouchard from 1982 to 1991. ‘‘But studying twins reared apart separates genetic and environmental effects on behavior better than any research design I know.’’
“每项研究都有其批评者，”加州州立大学富勒顿分校的教授南希· 西格尔说，她于1982至1991年间和布沙尔一起工作。“但在分离基因和环境对行为的影响上，相比其他任何我所知的研究设计，研究分养的双胞胎都做得更好。”
Segal has been studying Chinese twins (fraternal and identical pairs reared together and reared apart) since 2003. In several books about twins, Segal has merged science with human-­interest tales, walking readers through statistical evidence but also highlighting anecdotal details: the identical twins reared apart who each showed up for research wearing seven rings, or the reared-­apart sisters who rubbed their noses the same way and called it ‘‘squidging.’’
西格尔从2003年起开始研究中国双胞胎（共养和分养、同卵和异卵的双胞胎）。在几本关于双胞胎的书里，西格尔融合了科学和人类的有趣故事，带领读者接触数据，也强调轶闻细节：分养的双胞胎露面时都戴了七枚戒指，或是分养的姐妹用同样的动作擦鼻子，而且都叫它squidging。
Last October, Yesika Montoya, a Colombian psychologist who is now a social worker at Columbia University, saw on Facebook a video clip from a Colombian newsmagazine program, which confirmed through DNA testing that the four young men were two sets of identical twins. She got in touch with Segal, whom she knew only by reputation. She then approached the young men, who agreed to be the subject of their research.
去年10月，正在哥伦比亚大学担任社工的哥伦比亚心理学家叶思卡·蒙托亚，在Facebook上看到一个来自哥伦比亚新闻杂志项目Septimo Dia的视频。它通过DNA测试，确定这四个年轻人其实是两对同卵双胞胎。她联系了西格尔，此前她只是听说过后者的业界名声。之后，她开始接触这些年轻人们——他们同意当她们的研究对象。
No matter how fascinating, the two sets of twins represent a sample of only two. But to Segal, the possibilities were dizzying, unique. In no other family she knew of were there so many kinds of twin pairings to analyze and compare: Jorge and Carlos, Jorge and William, Jorge and Wilber and so on. ‘‘It’s an experiment within an experiment,’’ she said, comparing it to one of those Russian dolls: Crack open one, and there would still be another, and another, and another.
无论多么吸引人，这两对双胞胎只能代表两个样本。但对于西格尔，可能性使人晕眩，十分独特。她所知的家庭里，没有一个有那么多对双胞胎可供分析比较：乔治和卡洛斯，乔治和威廉，乔治和威尔伯，等等。“这是实验里的实验，”她说，打了俄罗斯套娃的比方：打开一个，还有另一个、另一个和另一个。
The twins knew the research would require them to submit, over the course of a week in March, to several probing interviews, individually and in pairs, as well as hours holed up in a conference room filling out questionnaires. There would be questions about their homes, lives and education, as well as personality and intelligence tests. Segal told them that she was interested in writing a book about them (Montoya would later collaborate with her), and the young men were enthusiastic subjects.
双胞胎们知道，由于研究，他们要在三月花一周时间接受深入探索的采访，单个或成对，还要被关在会议室里，用几小时填各类问卷，关于他们的家庭、生活及教育的问题，也有性格和智力测试。西格尔告诉他们，她想写一本关于他们的书，而且这些年轻人都是热心的研究对象，蒙托亚之后会和她合作。
William had only one condition for his participation: He insisted that Segal and Montoya visit the home in which he grew up in Santander. Without that, he thought, they could never really understand who he was. He did worry, however, that if he told Segal and Montoya how long it would take to get to Santander, they would never agree to go. So he dodged and evaded whenever the subject of travel time came up. It’s a four- or five-hour drive, William would say, and then add, almost as an afterthought, that when the road could get them no closer to their destination, they would get out and walk. For how long? A little while, William would say; it might be a little muddy. How muddy? Maybe, he would suggest, it would be easier if at that point Segal traveled by horse. Would she, by any chance, rather ride a horse? Segal, a woman in her early 60s who grew up in the Bronx, said no.
威廉的参与只有一个条件：他坚持要西格尔和蒙托亚造访他在桑坦德长大的家。如果不能，他认为，他们就不可能真正了解他是谁。然而他也担心，如果告诉西格尔和蒙托亚要多久才能到桑坦德，他们就不愿意去了。所以每当提及旅行时间，他总是推脱躲避。威廉会说，车程有四五个小时，然后就不通车了，他们会下来走路。要多久？就一小会儿，威廉会说；路上可能会有点泥泞。有多泥泞？他说，可能西格尔到时骑马会更方便，她万一愿意骑马呢？在布朗克斯长大、六十岁出头的西格尔说：不。
The Importance of Will
意愿的重要性
Around 9:30 a.m. on March 29, three cars pulled into La Paz, a dusty town whose few small streets offer sweeping views of the Andes. The group — Segal, Montoya, the two sets of twins, translators and assorted friends and family members — had already been on the road for six hours. They settled in for a traditional breakfast of bone broth and hot chocolate at a diner in town. Jorge and William sat next to each other along one side of a wooden table, while Carlos sat across the way. Wilber sat with Segal and Montoya. While everyone ate breakfast, Carlos took out his phone and called up a picture of him and Jorge. ‘‘I love my brother, even though I only show it when I’m drunk,’’ Carlos said. ‘‘See?’’ In the picture, Carlos was puckered up, giving Jorge a big kiss on the cheek.
3月29日，大约早上9:30时，三辆车驶入拉巴斯。脏兮兮的小镇上，不多的几条小街上可以彻底看到安第斯山脉。西格尔、蒙托亚、两对双胞胎、翻译、各种各样的亲友这一行人已经在路上走了六个小时。他们安顿下来，在餐馆吃含骨汤和热巧克力的传统早餐。乔治和威廉坐在木桌的一边，卡洛斯则坐在对面。威尔伯和西格尔、蒙托亚坐在一起。这时，卡洛斯掏出手机，翻出他和乔治的一张照片。“我爱我的兄弟，尽管我只在喝醉的时候表现出来，”卡洛斯说。“看到了吗？”照片里，卡洛斯噘着嘴，在乔治的脸上大大吻了一下。
William watched Carlos, feeling annoyed. Wilber, he had often thought, was the same way: He took William entirely for granted, showing his love only on very rare occasions — when, for example, he thought one of them could die. They served in the same platoon in the military, and when they entered a particularly dangerous zone, Wilber would say to him, white-­faced: ‘‘May God be with you, my brother. I love you.’’ William knew Wilber loved him; but both Jorge and William wished that the brothers they grew up with had been more supportive, more expressive — the way William and Jorge now were with each other. They often called each other right before they fell asleep, just to say good night.
威廉看着卡洛斯，感到恼怒。他总觉得威尔伯一样：总是认为威廉做的事都是理所应当，很少展示出他的爱——例如，在他以为他们之中的一个会死的时候。他们在同团服兵役，而在他们进入危险地区时，威尔伯脸色苍白地对他说：“上帝与你同在，兄弟。我爱你。”威廉知道威尔伯爱他；但乔治和威廉都希望和他们一起长大的兄弟可以更支持他们、更善于表达就像现在威廉和乔治在一起的样子，他们经常在对方睡前打电话，只是为了道晚安。
The four young men all knew one another well by then. Over the past six months, they had gone on outings and shared meals, talked about women, family, money, values. Even weeks in, each had stared, still unnerved and amazed, into the eyes of his identical brother. They had measured, assessed and inspected. They stood back to back, comparing height (those raised in the city were taller than those from the country); Carlos had crushed Wilber in a food-­eating contest, William had vanquished them all when they arm-­wrestled. In the stands at a soccer match, Carlos watched, in fascination, as William’s hand reached down his jeans to scratch his backside: Jorge did the same thing, Carlos told Wilber. Over dinner one night, Jorge noted that Carlos and Wilber both leaned in at the same odd angle toward their plates. Jorge felt comfortable gently correcting his identical twin’s grammar; Carlos took seriously such brotherly responsibilities as instructing Wilber in how to approach an attractive Bogotá woman at a bar or how to down a shot of tequila. The twins from Santander were amazed that neither of their city counterparts had ever fired a gun, which they quickly remedied on a visit to the country.
四个年轻人互相之间已经十分了解。在过去的六个月里，他们一起外出，一起吃饭，讨论女人、家庭、金钱和价值观。甚至在几周前，他们互相盯着同卵双胞胎兄弟，依然感到不安而惊讶。他们权衡、评估、观察。他们背靠背站着，比较身高，在城市长大的比在乡村长大的要高；卡洛斯在大胃王比赛里彻底打败了威尔伯，威廉则在掰手腕比赛里征服了所有人。足球比赛的看台上，卡洛斯惊奇地看着威廉的手够到牛仔裤来挠他的屁股；卡洛斯告诉威尔伯，乔治也这么做。一天晚餐时，乔治注意到卡洛斯和威尔伯都以同样的奇怪角度靠近他们的盘子。乔治习惯温和地纠正他的同卵双胞胎兄弟的语法；卡洛斯则严肃地承担起兄弟的责任，教威尔伯如何在酒吧接近一个动人的波哥大女人，以及怎样喝下一杯龙舌兰酒。桑坦德的双胞胎惊讶地发现，他们的城市兄弟从未玩过枪，而到了乡下很快就弥补了这一点。
Carlos did feel immediately at ease with his newfound twin, he had to admit. Wilber did not try to tell him what to do when he talked about his love life, the way Jorge did; he just listened and supported him. Yes, they understood each other: their manly pride around women, their furious response to their brothers’ incessant teasing. But Carlos was also unnerved by Wilber’s Carlosness. His twin’s very existence refuted a concept dear to him: his sense of his own uniqueness. Having grown up so different from his other family members, he had come to pride himself on his individualism; now, as an identical twin, he was part of a rare subset of humans whose replicability was embarrassingly on display. Once, Wilber posted on Facebook a picture of himself back in Santander, bare-­chested in a river, triumphantly holding two chickens he had just killed. With his hair wet and slicked down like Carlos’s, the campesino in the picture looked too much like Carlos for his comfort. ‘‘Take that thing down,’’ he told Wilber. ‘‘People will think it’s me.’’
卡洛斯必须承认，和他新发现的双胞胎兄弟一起，很快就感到相处舒服。不像乔治，在威尔伯谈论他的感情生活时，从来不会指挥他该做什么；他只是听他倾诉，并表示支持。没错，他们懂对方：他们在女人身边时作为男子汉的骄傲，他们对于兄弟无休止调侃的厌烦。但卡洛斯也因威尔伯的卡洛斯感到气馁。他的双胞胎兄弟的存在否定了对自己的独一无二感。成长过程中，他和其他家庭成员一直大不相同，使得他对于自己的个人特征很自豪；现在，作为同卵双胞胎的一员，他成了人类某个稀有小团体的一部分，展示出令人尴尬的可复制性。一次，威尔伯在Facebook上贴出一张在桑坦德的照片，赤裸胸膛站在河里，胜利地举着两只他刚杀的鸡。他头发湿润，像卡洛斯一样捋平，照片中的农夫看起来太像卡洛斯，让他感觉不舒服：“删了吧，别人会以为这是我。”
Far from believing that he had found his perfect other half, Carlos felt lonelier than ever. For all of Jorge’s reassurances, he could feel Jorge drifting toward William. The two now wore the same sneakers, shaved their goatees the same way. On weekends, Jorge often went to William’s butcher shop and got behind the counter, waiting on customers, so he could spend time with his twin. He sometimes slept at Wilber and William’s tiny apartment, while Carlos slept at home. Sometimes Carlos told himself, with a strange twisted relief, that he was glad this had all happened after his mother died; the jealousy he would have felt had she embraced William as Jorge had would have been more than he could take.
卡洛斯并不认为他找到了完美的另一半，还感觉比以前更孤独了。尽管有乔治的一再保证，他还是能感觉到乔治离威廉更近了。现在，他们两个穿着同样的运动鞋，把山羊胡修成一个样。周末，乔治常去威廉的肉铺，站在柜台后等着顾客，以便和双胞胎兄弟多呆在一起。他有时在威尔伯和威廉的小公寓睡觉，留卡洛斯在家住。有时卡洛斯带着奇怪扭曲的安慰告诉自己，幸好这都发生在他们的母亲过世以后；如果她像乔治那样接纳威廉后，他会无法忍受那种嫉妒的。
Carlos knew that Jorge was attuned to his sadness, that he even wanted to help. But whenever they tried to talk about it, they fell into mutually irritating old patterns. Carlos felt as though Jorge dismissed his concerns; Jorge felt frustrated that nothing he said could assuage Carlos’s sense of isolation. But Jorge tried. Six weeks or so after the reunion, Jorge asked Carlos for a photo of himself. That Saturday, Jorge went to a tattoo parlor. He already had a tattoo of his mother over his heart. Now he sat in a chair for four painful hours as his favorite practitioner needled his brother’s image permanently into his flesh, just inches away from the image of his mother. He came home and lifted his shirt to show Carlos the work, his skin still bloody and swollen from the violence of the needle. It was, Carlos would later remark, with tears in his eyes, the best present anyone had ever given him. It brought him some measure of peace.
卡洛斯知道乔治和他的悲伤合拍，以至于他甚至想帮忙。但无论什么时候说起这件事，他们又落回了烦人的旧模式。卡洛斯感觉乔治似乎不在意他的担忧；乔治则感到挫败，因为他说的话没法减轻卡洛斯的隔绝感。但乔治努力了。团圆的六周左右过后，乔治请卡洛斯给他一张自己的照片。那个周六，乔治去了一家纹身店。他已经在心脏的位置纹过一个母亲的纹身。现在他在椅子上痛苦地坐了四小时，让他最喜欢的纹身师把兄弟的模样永远刺进肉里，就在母亲图案的几英寸之外。他回到家，撩起衣服给卡洛斯看这作品。刺过之后，他的皮肤依然肿胀流血。之后，卡洛斯流着泪评价，这是他收到过的最好的礼物，带给他一些平静。
At breakfast in La Paz, however, Carlos felt that Jorge was provoking him once again. Moments after Carlos pulled out that photo, Jorge turned to him and brought up a sensitive subject the two had already discussed in many late-night conversations: Who would Carlos have turned out to be had he been raised in Santander?
然而，在拉巴斯吃早饭时，卡洛斯感到乔治再一次挑动他的神经。卡洛斯拿出那张照片后，乔治转向他，提起一个敏感话题，两人已经在深夜谈过许多次：如果卡洛斯在桑坦德长大，他会变成什么样？
Come on, Carlos, Jorge said — look around. Do you really think that if you had been raised here you would have ended up an accountant or even a professional?
我说，卡洛斯，乔治说——看看这周围。你觉得如果在这里长大，你能成为会计？甚至白领？
Carlos refused to concede Jorge’s point. Who was to say he wouldn’t have found a way to go to school, to get his degree, to be working in the very same firm where he had only just recently been promoted?
卡洛斯拒绝对乔治的观点妥协。谁说他不会想出上学的方法，拿到学位，然后在他刚升职的那家公司工作？
William said nothing, but his face took on a hard cast. Carlos had no idea, he thought, how far a strong will could or could not get you. William had that strong will, had tried to exert it in every way, desperate to get to that petty-­officer training. First, he had moved to Bogotá to study for his high-school degree. He managed to pass the test, but his score was low — eight months of part-time cramming could not make up for all those years of lost schooling. He made it only onto a waiting list for the petty-­officer training, but that did not deter him. He packed up, left Bogotá and took a long bus ride to the barracks where the leadership course was being offered. When William arrived at the barracks, a commanding officer recognized him. ‘‘Those who persevere succeed,’’ the officer told him. The commanding officer managed to pull some strings on William’s behalf, but as they were going through the paperwork, officials discovered that William had already been discharged and compensated by the military for a disease he contracted while serving. The compensation made him ineligible for re-­enlistment. There were no more strings to be pulled; he could never be a petty officer; it was over. He would have to go home. But hadn’t the commanding officer told him that those who persevere succeed? For five days, William stayed past his welcome, hiding and mingling among the groups of soldiers. He hoped that things would sort themselves out, but more than that, he could not bring himself to leave: Leaving meant he had given up. On the sixth day, a sympathetic but fully armed officer accompanied him to the bus station and personally put him on a bus back to Bogotá.
威廉一言不发，但他表情僵硬。他想，卡洛斯不会知道，意愿对你的影响有多远、多强。威廉有过那么强烈的意愿，努力用任何方法实现它，不顾一切地想得到那个士官的训练机会。首先，他去波哥大，为得到高中学历学习。他通过了考试，但分数很低——八个月的兼职填鸭式用功抵不过多年没上的学。他只能在士官训练的候补名单上，但那没有打消他的念头。他收拾行李，离开波哥大，乘长途汽车去训练所在的军营。当威廉到达军营时，一个指挥官认出了他。“有志者，事竟成，”指挥官跟他说。指挥官为威廉 做了些幕后操纵，但当他们做文书工作时，官员们发现威廉在服役时染过疾病，已经因此复员且得到赔偿。这项赔偿让他失去了再次从军的资格。已经没有更多幕后操纵了；他再不可能成为士官；全都完了。他只能回家。但指挥官不是告诉过他有志者事竟成吗？五天来，威廉混在士兵里，使人厌烦。他希望事情会有转机，他无法让自己离开：离开说明他已经放弃。第六天，一个同情他但全副武装的军官陪他走到车站，并且私自让他坐上一辆返回波哥大。
William knew that Carlos was unfamiliar with that part of his history. Carlos probably did not know that William, as a 6-year-old, used to walk with his mother to this very town, La Paz, for five hours each way, just to buy groceries; they would spend the night at a kind woman’s place in town and then walk home again, groceries on their backs. And Carlos could not know, could never really know, how many hours William had spent hacking sugar cane with a machete as a teenager, his skin crawling from the heat and the itchy scraps of stalk, carrying 50 pounds of cane at a time, mindless, painful, strenuous work. Carlos had spent those same years, William knew, flirting with girls at an excellent public high school, playing basketball with his friends, racking up points on some video game, the name of which William would not even know.
威廉知道卡洛斯不熟悉他的经历。卡洛斯可能不知道威廉在6岁时曾和他的母亲来过拉巴斯，只为了买杂货，往返各要五小时；他们会在镇里一位善良的妇女家过夜，然后再背着杂货走回家。卡洛斯也不会知道，更不会真正懂得，威廉在少年时代花过多长时间用镘砍甘蔗。他的皮肤因暴热和令人发痒的甘蔗茎碎片脱皮，他一次扛50磅甘蔗，那是痛苦繁重的纯体力劳动。威廉知道，卡洛斯曾花过同样的时间，在最好的公立高中和女孩谈情说爱，和朋友打篮球，把某个游戏打到高分，而威廉甚至没听说过这个游戏的名字。
Carlos was wrong, William felt certain. Sometimes, a will was not enough. Had he grown up in Santander, Carlos would not be an accountant on the rise right now. And Carlos’s insistence on that point felt, to William, like an insult to all he had endured — a life he had endured, no less, in Carlos’s place.
威廉确定卡洛斯错了。有时，仅有意愿是不够的。如果在桑坦德长大，卡洛斯不可能成为一个节节高升的会计。而且威廉感觉，卡洛斯持此观点是对他所承受的一切的侮辱——他顶替卡洛斯承受的生活，一点不少。
When City Meets Country
当城市遇到乡村
After breakfast, the cars left La Paz, driving on serpentine, stone-strewn roads with lush palm fronds and ferns closing in overhead. With the heat of the sun now strong, one driver kept mopping his sweating face with a bandanna he borrowed from one of the relatives in the car, as if he was physically exhausted from the stress of maneuvering the vehicle over riverbeds and around ditches. Finally, around 11:30 a.m., the caravan stopped near a large gazebo in a grassy field. Everyone piled out of the vehicles. It was time to walk.
早饭过后，车辆离开拉巴斯，在曲折的石子路上行驶，繁茂的棕榈叶和蕨类植物盖在头上。太阳的热度猛烈起来，一个司机不停地用印花手帕擦汗，那是他找车里某个亲戚借来的。他操纵汽车翻过河床、躲避沟渠，累得精疲力竭。终于，11:30左右，一辆大篷车停在草地上的大露台旁。所有人都从车里涌出来。剩下的路得靠走了。
Segal had brought a bright purple rolling suitcase, which held materials she hoped to use that day for interviews and research with William and Wilber’s family; their brother, Ancelmo, now lived in their childhood home, but their parents and other relatives would also be there to celebrate Ancelmo’s birthday and see the twins. It became clear that the grassy path would not be suitable for luggage rolling, so William, who had carried far heavier loads on this journey before, easily slung the purple suitcase onto his shoulders.
西格尔带来一个亮紫色的滚轮行李箱，她认为和威廉、威尔伯家采访、研究所需的材料都装在里面；他们的兄弟安塞尔莫，正住在他们孩提时代的家里，但他们的家长和其他亲戚都会在那里庆祝安塞尔莫的生日，也为了见双胞胎。很明显，长草的小路不适合滚轮，于是威廉轻松地把紫色行李箱扛在肩上，他以前在同一条路上扛过远比这重的东西。
The group started making its way along the path, which briefly lurched uphill. William was moving at high speed, despite the suitcase. He called out that as strong as he was, Jorge was every bit as strong, although it seemed unlikely that that could possibly true. ‘‘But not Carlos,’’ William said. ‘‘Carlos is not as strong.’’ William took a few more steps, then turned around as if something had occurred to him. ‘‘Why shouldn’t Carlos carry it?’’ he said. He backtracked until he reached Carlos, pushed the suitcase at him and then quickly headed off.
一行人开始走路，这条路短暂地向上坡倾斜。尽管有行李箱，威廉还是走得很快。他说，不管他有多壮，乔治都一样壮，尽管这看起来不可能是真的。“但是卡洛斯不行，”威廉说。“卡洛斯没这么壮。”威廉又走了几步，突然转过身来，想突然想起了什么。“为什么不让卡洛斯扛它？”他说。他由原路返回到卡洛斯所在的地方，把行李箱塞给他，然后很快走上前去。
The path tracked across a grassy meadow and then started a long, steep descent. Within minutes, the path was made of mud — rich, claylike mud that was two feet deep in some patches. Carlos, who was always impeccably dressed, stepped carefully. But his Adidas basketball sneakers were quickly soaked with oozing earth.
小路和一片草地相交，之后是一段又长又陡的下坡路。几分钟内，小路就全都是泥了，大量粘土似的泥，在有些地方足有两英尺深。卡洛斯的衣服总是毫无瑕疵，现在他正谨慎地迈步。然而，他的阿迪达斯篮球鞋很快浸满了软泥。
Carlos was as uncomfortable emotionally as he was physically. He had visited Santander twice since the reunion — once for a birthday party for all four brothers in La Paz and once to visit his biological parents, José del Carmen Cañas (known as Carmelo) and Ana Delina Velasco, at the home where they now lived. But he felt ill at ease on both visits. He knew William thought he had behaved churlishly, resisting the friendly overtures of his extended family. But there were just too many people around — locals, cousins, every one of them, it had seemed, wanting a photograph or a hug or some other sign of a connection that he himself did not feel. How was he supposed to get to know his biological parents when there was always a crowd around? When he met Carmelo and Ana for the very first time at William and Wilber’s apartment, a camera crew for a Colombian newsmagazine show had been with them in the room. As he embraced his biological parents, they were weeping profusely. He was moved when he felt Carmelo’s arms around him — he had never really known his own father, who died not long after his mother did. But something about Ana’s tears left him feeling detached, calm. He had had a mother, and a very good one at that. ‘‘Don’t cry,’’ he said to Ana, wiping her tears. ‘‘These are God’s ways.’’
卡洛斯在心理上和在身体上一样不舒服。团圆后，他造访过两次桑坦德——一次是四个兄弟在拉巴斯的生日聚会，一次是去拜访他的生父生母，何塞·戴尔·卡门·卡纳斯（别人叫他卡梅洛）和安娜·德利娜·韦拉斯科。但他两次造访时都感觉不舒服。他知道威廉认为自己没有礼貌，拒绝他的大家庭的友善接待。但那里的人实在太多了——当地居民、表亲堂亲，看起来每个人都想要一张照片、一个拥抱，或者其他家庭关系的表示，但他自己没感到这种家庭关系。一直都有那么多人在旁边，他怎么可能了解自己的生身父母？当他第一次在威廉和威尔伯的公寓见到卡梅洛和安娜时，一家哥伦比亚新闻杂志的摄像队伍一直在房间里跟随他们。他拥抱生身父母时，他们都泣不成声。当他感受卡梅洛环绕他的手臂时，觉得非常感动——他从未真正了解他自己的父亲，他在母亲过世不久后也去世了。但安娜的眼泪让他觉得超然而冷静。他有过一个母亲，而且是个很好的母亲。“别哭了，”他对安娜说，擦去他的眼泪。“这都是上帝的安排。”
It was high noon in Santander. Carlos picked his way through the mud, which splattered and quickly baked hard onto his legs in the sun. Then Carlos — Carlos, who was so vain about his clothing, fussy about fit, who was always brushing at the cuff of his pants to rid it of some imaginary lint — let out a howl. His foot had sunk deep in the mud. Slowly, with the help of someone from the area who was walking alongside him, he began to extricate it. There was a loud suctioning sound: Sludge coated his bare leg well past his knee.
桑坦德此时正是晌午。卡洛斯在泥泞中找路，污泥溅到腿上，在阳光中很快被烤硬。卡洛斯在穿着方面一直那么虚荣、对于身材一直那么挑剔、经常为想象中的线头常常擦裤脚，这时咆哮起来。他的脚深陷泥里，糊到膝盖以上。慢慢地，在旁边的某个本地人的帮助下，他才挣扎出来。
More than an hour later, sweaty, exhausted, filthy, Carlos arrived with the group at William and Wilber’s childhood home. It had no toilet, no drywall, no paint, just wooden sides and a wood-­burning stove with a pipe jutting out of the roof. Carlos approached Carmelo with a smile: The two hugged warmly. But then there was silence; neither seemed to know what to say. William was standing close by, watching Carlos and his father. William looked pristine, except for a little mud on his boots. He wore a striped purple button-­down shirt for the occasion; Carlos was dressed in a black baseball cap with a Batman symbol on it, a tank top and sunglasses. He had not even had a moment to catch his breath when William quickly batted his cap. ‘‘Take off your hat and sunglasses,’’ William told Carlos. ‘‘Try to really be here.’’
一个多小时后，大汗淋漓、疲惫肮脏的卡洛斯和一行人到了威廉、威尔伯童年的家。里面没有卫生间，没有水泥墙，没有油漆，只有木制支撑和一个烧木头的炉子，上面的管道直通屋顶。卡洛斯微笑着走近卡梅洛：两人亲密地拥抱了一下。但之后是一段沉默；两人都不知该说什么。威廉站在近旁，看着卡洛斯和他的父亲。威廉看着很干净，除了靴上的一点泥。他穿着正式场合的条纹紫衬衫；卡洛斯戴一顶蝙蝠侠标志的黑色棒球帽和墨镜，穿了背心。他还没来得及喘气，威廉就很快拍了他的棒球帽：“把你的帽子和墨镜拿下来，”威廉跟卡洛斯说，“你要真的在这里。”
Carlos watched Jorge, who was moving easily through the crowd, ingratiating himself with William and Wilber’s family in a way that Carlos still could not. Carlos was still annoyed about the conversation they had at breakfast. Jorge seemed to want him to make some grand emotional statement about how lucky he had been in the swap, how much tougher his lot would have been had he, in fact, been raised in Santander. It was not as if he hadn’t thought hard, lying awake many nights, about what his fate would have been had he been raised with this biological family. Two of William and Wilber’s brothers had died very young, one in a gun accident and one in an ambush while serving in the military. He might not even be alive if he had grown up here. Maybe it was easy to be a good guy in Bogotá. Maybe if he had grown up in Santander, he would have joined the guerrillas, who were popular a decade earlier but also brutal. Far from believing in the inevitability of his professional success, he worried about whether his character, in that alternate life, would have withstood the forces around him.
卡洛斯看着乔治，后者正轻松地在人群里逢迎威廉和威尔伯的家庭，现在他还做不到这点。卡洛斯对于他们早饭时的谈话依然生气。乔治看来想让他情绪饱满地大声宣称，自己被交换是多么幸运，如果在桑坦德长大，命运又会多么艰难。就像他从没在深夜清醒，认真思考自己在生身父母家长大的命运似的。威廉和威尔伯有两个兄弟都英年早逝，一个在枪击事故中死去，另一个则在服役时中了埋伏。如果他在这里长大，真甚至不一定还活着。可能在波哥大当个好人很容易。如果他在桑坦德长大，他可能已经加入游击队；十年前这很流行，但也很残忍。他完全不认为自己事业成功是注定的，他担心在另一种生活里，自己的人格能否承受周围的影响力。
But no, he was not going to say all of that at breakfast, in front of a bunch of people. That was not who he was.
但是不，他不会在吃早饭时，在许多人前提及这种事。那不是他的作风。
PART 3
第三部分 
The Myth of Identical Twins
同卵双胞胎的秘密
At the moment that a sperm penetrates an egg, that single-­cell zygote is what is known as totipotent: It is pure potential. It has in it the makings of an eyebrow’s curve, a heart’s thick muscle, a neuron’s electrochemical power; it has in it the finicky instructional manual that will direct the building of the body’s every fiber and the regulation of those fibers. But that one cell splits into two, and instantly, lights begin to go out, potential dims. In order for that one cell to become a tiny bit of flesh in a heart, and not the hair of an eyebrow, one or more of its genetic signaling pathways must shut down. The result is differentiation, a steady process of elimination that allows complex biological universes to be built. Every time a group of cells divides, each one becomes more like one thing, less like another.
在精子进入卵子的瞬间，那个单细胞受精卵是全能细胞，纯粹的潜能。在它里面，已经开始创造眉毛的弧度、心脏的厚肌肉、神经元的电化学能量；在它里面，有一本极为繁琐的说明书，指导身体去建造每一根纤维及对其进行管理。但当那个细胞一分为二，马上，灯光熄灭，潜能消失。为了让那个细胞成为心脏的一小部分血肉，而非眉毛里的一根，它里面的一个或更多基因信号途径必须关闭。结果是分化，一个稳定的排除法，让复杂的人体宇宙得以建立。每当一团细胞分裂，其中的每个都会变得更像某个身体部分，更不像另一个。
By the time that embryo is five or six days old, which is when a majority of fateful twin splits occur, some of those cells, by chance, go to one twin and some to the other. This means that the expression of some genes in one of those future twins is already, in subtle ways, likely to be different from the expression of genes in the other future twin, theorizes Harvey Kliman, the director of the reproductive and placental research unit at the Yale School of Medicine. From the moment that most identical twins separate, they may well have different epigenetics, a term that refers to the way genes are read and expressed, depending on environment. They are already different products of their environment, the environment being whatever uterine conditions rendered them separate beings in the first place.
当胚胎五六天大时，大多双胞胎已经宿命地分开，而偶尔，其中的一些细胞会进入双胞胎一方，另一些则进入另一方。耶鲁医学院繁殖与胎盘研究部门的主任哈维·克里曼推理：这说明在未来的双胞胎中，部分基因的表现已经微妙地和双胞胎另一方的基因表现不同了。在绝大多数同卵双胞胎分开的一刻，他们可能有不同的表观基因，即取决于环境的读取和表现基因的方式。他们已经是各自环境的不同产物，而这环境可以是任何致使他们最分离的子宫状况。
The casual observer is fascinated by how similar identical twins are, but some geneticists are more interested in identifying all the reasons they might differ, sometimes in significant ways. Why might one identical twin be gay or transgender and not the other? Why do identical twins, born with the same DNA, sometimes die of different diseases at different times in their lives? Their environments must be different, but which aspect of their environment is the one that took their biology in a different direction? Smoking, stress, obesity — those are some of the factors that researchers have been able to link to specific changes in the expression of specific genes. They expect, in time, to find hundreds, possibly thousands, of others.
普通观察者因为同卵双胞胎的相似程度感到惊奇，但基因学家对于致使他们不同的原因更感兴趣，有时这些原因极具研究意义。为什么同卵双胞胎的一方可能是同性恋者或跨性别者，另一方则不是？为什么带有同样DNA的同卵双胞胎，有时会因不同疾病在人生的不同阶段死亡？他们的环境肯定不同，但具体环境的哪方面使他们的生理走向不同方向？吸烟、压力、肥胖——上述是研究者可以和特定基因的不同表现挂钩的因素。他们期望在一定时间里发现几百甚至几千种其他因素。
The meta-­analysis published this spring in Nature Genetics, which examined 50 years of studies of twins, arrived at a conclusion about the impact of heredity and environment on human beings’ lives. On average, the researchers found, any particular trait or disease in an individual is about 50 percent influenced by environment and 50 percent influenced by genes. But that simple ratio does not capture our complicated systems of genetic circuitry, the way our genes steadily interact with the environment, switching on, switching off, depending on the stimulus, sometimes with lasting results that will continue on in our genome, passed to the next generation. How an individual’s genes respond to that environment — how they are expressed — creates what scientists call an epigenetic profile.
《自然遗传学》今年春天发布的元分析调查了50年来的双胞胎研究，得出了关于遗传和环境如何影响人类生活的结论。研究者发现，通常而言，一个人独有的疾病特征有大约50%受环境影响，50%受基因影响。但这一简单的比例没有涉及复杂的基因电路系统，我们的基因和环境稳定互动的方式，打开或关闭，取决于刺激物，有时会有持久的后果，一直延续到我们的染色体组里，传递到下一代。一个人的基因如何对环境做出反应，创造了科学家所称的“表观遗传”。
Before she left for Bogotá, Segal contacted Jeffrey Craig, who studies epigenetics at Murdoch Childrens Research Institute in Australia, to ask if he would analyze the epigenetics of Carlos, Jorge, Wilber and William, using saliva swabs she would obtain while she was there.
去波哥大之前，西格尔联系了杰弗里·克雷格，后者问他能否用她在那里采集的唾液药签，分析卡洛斯、乔治、威尔伯和威廉的表观基因。
Craig has analyzed the epigenetic profiles of 34 identical and fraternal twins at birth, collecting swabs from their inner cheeks. To Craig, it was noteworthy that in some cases — not many, but some — the epigenetic profile of one newborn twin was more similar to an unrelated baby than to the identical twin with whom that baby shared a womb. Structural differences in the womb could possibly account for it, Craig says — a thicker umbilical cord for one than the other (there are, in fact, two cords) or an awkward site of connection for the umbilical cord on the placenta. But he recognizes that there could be additional factors still in the realm of guesswork. Perhaps one twin is farther from the sound of the mother’s heart, its reassuring steady beat, sending that child on a slightly different life course.
克雷格在澳大利亚的默多克儿童研究所研究实验胚胎学，从他们的内颊收集唾液，他研究过34个同卵和异卵双胞胎出生时的表观基因。对于克雷格来说，值得注意的是，和部分案例相比同子宫的同卵双胞胎，一个新生儿的表观基因和另一个没有关系的婴儿更近似。子宫的结构差异可能是诱因，克雷格表示——一个的脐带比另一个更粗（实际上，的确有两条脐带）或者脐带连接胎盘的部位不合适。但他认识到，猜测的范围可以囊括更多因素。可能双胞胎的一方离母亲的心跳声更远，可靠、稳定的搏动让一个孩子有了稍微不一样的人生旅程。
Segal and Craig were eager to see the epigenetic results for the Colombian twins. Whose epigenetic profile, they wondered, would look more alike? The biologically unrelated twins who shared an environment — Segal calls them virtual twins — or the ones whose DNA was the same?
西格尔和克雷格渴望看到哥伦比亚双胞胎的表观基因结果。他们好奇：谁的表观基因看起来更像？是血缘没有关联，但有相同环境的双胞胎，西格尔称呼他们虚像双胞胎，还是拥有同样DNA的双胞胎？
A sample of four subjects could only raise questions, not answer them. But epigenetic testing on larger samples of twins reared apart could one day provide a valuable resource for epigenetic science, says Kelly Klump, who is the co-­director of the Michigan State University Twin Registry. ‘‘You can’t look at how the environment will change the function of the genome without holding constant the genome,’’ she says. ‘‘Identical twins allow you to do that.’’ Given how hard it is to find identical twins raised apart, twins researchers working in epigenetics have mostly been focusing on the identical twins who show difference. Tim Spector, a professor of genetic epidemiology at King’s College London, is generating a huge global registry for identical twins in which only one twin has, for example, diabetes or autism.
四个对象的样本只会带来问题，而非回答它们。凯莉·斯朗普，密歇根州立大学双胞胎登记处的联席主任，说：但对更多分养双胞胎样本的表观基因测试会提供表观遗传学的宝贵资源。“如果你不保持染色体组相同，你就不能看出环境是如何改变染色体组功能的，”她说。“同卵双胞胎可以让你做到这点。”由于找到分开养育的同卵双胞胎十分困难，在表观遗传学领域工作的双胞胎研究者关注的几乎都是表现不同的同卵双胞胎。伦敦国王学院的基因传染病学教授蒂姆·斯佩克特在组建一个巨大的、全球性的同卵双胞胎登记处，双胞胎中的一方要患有糖尿病、自闭症或其他病症。
Bouchard was influential in convincing his fellow researchers, as well as the public, that some significant part of who we are is influenced by DNA, which was hardly a given when he started his work. Spector and Craig, by contrast, are trying to identify how, exactly, we change in response to the environment. Their essential question is different: How can science identify genes that have been flicked on or off, with potentially harmful results, so they can be switched back the other way? Traditional twin studies were perceived to be seeking the immutable; epigenetic twin studies try to clarify what, in us, is subject to change — and more specifically, what mechanisms make that change happen.
布沙尔善于说服同行，也善于说服公众。他认为，我们是谁的一个重要部分受DNA影响，而他工作时DNA很少是已知条件。相反，斯佩克特和克雷格则试图准确识别我们如何改变对环境的反应。他们的基本问题不一样：科学怎样识别打开或关闭的潜在伤害性基因，以使它们以后可以被关闭或打开？传统的双胞胎研究被认为是寻找不变条件；表观基因双胞胎研究试图澄清我们中的什么可以被改变——更具体地说，是什么机制使变化发生。
Falling Into a Hole
掉入洞内
A local politician had accompanied the group on the hike to Santander. Along the way, he tried to persuade the group to visit a nearby attraction: the second-­biggest hole in Colombia, a cavernous pit 500 feet wide and 600 feet deep. Locals like to get on their bellies, inch their way up to its rim and peer down into the abyss.
一位当地政客陪大家去桑坦德。在路上，他试图说服他们去参观附近的景点：哥伦比亚第二大的洞穴，500英尺宽、600英尺深。当地人都是趴在地上，一寸一寸挪到边缘，往下窥视深渊。
The second-­biggest hole became a recurring joke among the brothers, but for Yesika Montoya, the Colombian psychologist, it also became something of a metaphor for the young men’s experience. She was trying to get them to identify their feelings about all they had gone through, partly by recalling the physical sensations that they felt at various stages. ‘‘It was vertigo,’’ Jorge told her, as he described waiting for William the first time they met. ‘‘I felt a pressure. Like when you go on the roller coaster and you’re falling.’’
第二大洞成了兄弟间反复提起的笑话，在哥伦比亚心理学家雅思卡·蒙托亚眼中，这也成了一个暗喻。她试图让他们描述经历过这一切后的感受，部分方法是回忆他们在不同阶段的生理感受。“晕头转向，”乔治描述他第一次等待见威廉的情形时说。“压力很大，就像坐过山车。”
Montoya imagined that feeling to be like ‘‘going down a hole and not being able to feel the bottom.’’ She added: ‘‘It never stops. And just when you have put a foot here or there, you keep going down.’’
蒙托亚猜想那种感觉是“掉进洞里，无法感到底部在哪里”。她补充：“它不会停。而且当你刚刚把脚放好，又开始往下掉。”
The process of spending time with Segal and Montoya and sharing their life histories necessarily changed the young men’s experience of their reunion. Carlos seemed surprised at one point when Segal asked him to describe the ways in which he and Wilber differed. ‘‘Well, the thing is, we’ve always focused on what our similarities are,’’ Carlos said. ‘‘We haven’t actually talked about our differences.’’ He seemed pleased, at last, to be given the opportunity.
和西格尔及蒙托亚一起相处、分享人生故事的过程改变了年轻人团圆的经历。西格尔请卡洛斯描述他和威尔伯的不同之处时，卡洛斯看起来很惊讶。“嗯，事情是，我们一直关心的是我们有哪些相同点，”卡洛斯说，“我们没有真正聊过我们的不同点。”最后，他得到这个机会，看起来很高兴。
At the time, Carlos pointed out that he liked older women, while Wilber liked younger ones. But the answer was, of course, far more complicated. Carlos was like Wilber in large, sweeping ways, and unlike him in infinite small ways: the expressions that darted across his and his face alone, the thoughts and worries that filled his mind. Carlos was, for better or for worse, more cynical than Wilber, more suave; Wilber was more joyful around small children, quicker to laugh out loud.
卡洛斯说他喜欢年长的女性，而威尔伯喜欢年轻的。但实际情况远比这个复杂。卡洛斯在很多大方面都像威尔伯，细节却处处和他不同：。卡洛斯比威尔伯更愤世嫉俗，也更文雅；威尔伯在小孩身边更开心，更容易放声大笑。
Jorge and William, too, have obvious differences. Jorge is a dreamer, a restless traveler, an optimist who believes that ‘‘if you give your best to the world, it will give its best back.’’ William’s face, more narrow, more gaunt, reflects a far warier outlook. ‘‘Nothing in life is easy,’’ he remarked once, a sentiment that you could hardly imagine Jorge expressing.
乔治和威廉也有显著的不同。乔治是个梦想家，一个永不停歇的旅行者，一个相信“如果你把最好的献给世界，世界也会把最好的献给你”的乐观主义者。威廉的脸更窄、更憔悴，显得更谨慎。“生活没有易事，”他曾这么说，你很难想象乔治会有这种情感。
Was every one of these differences learned? Did some reflect different epigenetics? Perhaps there might be some extra biological protection built in for Wilber and Jorge, who, unlike Carlos and William, had been raised in their biological mothers’ arms. The mother who raised Carlos loved him, he knew. But he was also aware that a cousin had moved in with them when they were babies, expressly so that each child could be the beneficiary of the form of attachment parenting the hospital was encouraging at the time. Their mother wore Jorge in a sling; it was the cousin who wore Carlos.
这些变化都是后天的吗？其中是否有一部分反映了不同的表观基因？可能威尔伯和乔治有额外的生理保障，因为不像卡洛斯和威廉，他们在生母那里长大。卡洛斯知道养母爱他。但他也意识到，在他还是婴儿时，一个表亲专门搬来和他们同住，这样两个孩子都可以从依恋式养育法受益，这是当时医院鼓励的方式。他们的母亲把乔治放在身上的婴儿背带里；把卡洛斯放在婴儿背带里的是表亲。
In May, Carlos told Wilber that he wanted to visit his biological family, but without crowds of relatives or psychologists or camera crews. And Wilber passed that on to William. It was becoming easier for William to accept that Carlos’s reserve on those excursions to Santander was not so much in reaction to his new family as it was in response to the public nature of the outings. On a weekend in June when Wilber unfortunately had to work, William, Jorge and Carlos took a bus to see Carmelo and Ana for a relaxed, private visit.
5月，卡洛斯告诉威尔伯，他想拜访他的生父生母家，但不能有一群亲戚、心理学家或摄影队伍在场。威尔伯把这件事告诉了威廉。威廉逐渐接受卡洛斯在桑坦德走长路时的缄默，那不是对新家庭的反应，而是对于在风口浪尖上抛头露面的回应。六月的一个周末，威尔伯又得去工作，于是威廉、乔治和卡洛斯乘车去见卡梅洛和安娜，这是一场轻松的私人会面。
Carlos sat next to William on the bus on their way up and listened as William, who had become something of a local celebrity in Santander, talked about his plans to run for City Council in La Paz. Carlos did not think much of Colombian politicians, but he was impressed by William’s ambition; he liked that William was taking a class to learn Microsoft Word. He had discovered, from the questions Segal and Montoya asked, that Wilber had no intention of returning to school. That disappointed him; he wanted to talk to Wilber about more than women. He wanted more for Wilber — wanted more from Wilber, but he was starting to think he might not get it.
上山的车上，卡洛斯坐在威廉旁边，听威廉讲他竞选拉巴斯市议员的计划，威廉现在已经是桑坦德的名人。卡洛斯不太关注哥伦比亚的政客们，但他对威廉的雄心印象深刻；他很高兴威廉报了一个学习使用Microsoft Word的课程。从西格尔和蒙托亚问的问题里，他发现威尔伯不打算回到学校。这让他失望；他想跟威尔伯聊聊女人之外的话题。他想让威尔伯得到更多——也想从威尔伯那里得到更多，但他现在怀疑他可能得不到了。
Carlos knew Wilber wanted the two of them to spend more time together. But he also knew that Wilber, at some level, understood that Carlos was a solitary soul. Wilber, at any rate, had a life of his own and a new girlfriend, who had two young children whose photos he showed off, with admiration, to anyone who would look. The whole experience was less complicated for Wilber than for the other three brothers — simply because, as Wilber himself put it, he was not a very complicated person.
卡洛斯知道威尔伯想要他们两个多在一起相处。但他也知道威尔伯在某种程度上明白卡洛斯是个孤单的人。威尔伯无论如何有他自己的生活和新女友，还有两个小孩——他常常带着钦慕向人展示他们的照片。相比另外三兄弟，整件事对于威尔伯没有那么复杂，只是因为，如威尔伯自己所言，他不是个复杂的人。
For Carlos, this fourth visit to Santander felt like a fresh start. The brothers arrived at Ana and Carmelo’s home early in the morning, after traveling through the night, but Carlos was enjoying the beauty of the countryside too much to go straight to sleep. Instead, he bathed in a water tank. He listened to the birds; he was a willing audience to the family parrot, Roberto, who had a talent for singing ranchera songs. Then, while his brothers dozed, he wandered into the kitchen, where Ana, a tiny woman — he had her giggle, he was told, although he never heard it that way himself — was cleaning a sheep’s head she would cook for dinner that night. He stood by the kitchen counter, keeping her company as she worked. He realized it was their first time alone.
对于卡洛斯，这回他第四次造访桑坦德，却是一个全新的开始。深夜驾车后，兄弟们一大早就到了安娜和卡梅洛的家，但卡洛斯正在享受乡间美景，不愿睡觉。相反，他在一个水箱中洗了澡。他听着鸟叫；他是家里鹦鹉罗伯托的忠实听众，罗伯托很有唱西班牙民歌的天赋。之后，他的兄弟打盹，他在厨房漫步，安娜在跟一位个子矮小的女人聊天。人们说卡洛斯的笑声和她一样，可他从没听过自己那么笑。安娜在收拾晚饭时要做的羊头。他站在料理台边陪着她。他意识到，这是两人第一次单独见面。
They talked about her health, her aching joints, her back pain. ‘‘You know, you’ve worked so much your whole life,’’ Carlos told her. ‘‘It’s time for you to rest. Your children are so big already. Why do you work so hard for them?’’ The relationship with Ana felt more relaxed, but not necessarily closer. He told himself it would come in time. Jorge was always implying that there was something wrong with him for not feeling, instantly, that powerful, primal connection, that emotional force of biology and destiny, that William seemed to feel for the mother he never got to know. Carlos wondered whether he might have drawn closer to Ana had his own mother been alive to grant some kind of permission. But maybe it was simpler than that. Maybe he and William were just different that way.
俩人在聊她的疼痛的关节和后背。“看，你一辈子都在干活，”卡洛斯告诉她。“你该休息休息。孩子都这么大了，你干嘛为他们这么操劳？”和安娜的关系似乎更放松了，但未必更紧密。他告诉自己，时间会治好这一切。乔治总是暗示他有点不对劲的地方，因为他没有立刻感受到那种强大的、原始的联系，那种血缘和命运的力量，威廉看来对他从未认识的生母有那种感觉。卡洛斯在想，如果他的母亲尚在人世并许可，他会不会和安娜更亲近些。但可能这更简单。可能他只是和威廉在这方面不一样。
Moving Forward
向前
Before starting her research, Segal would not have been surprised if each young man tested similarly to his identical twin, despite their different environments. But her preliminary results, she said, show that on a number of traits, the identical twins were less alike than she initially anticipated. ‘‘I came away with a real respect for the effect of an extremely different environment,’’ Segal said.
开展研究前，如果实验显示尽管生长环境不同，各个年轻人仍然和他的同卵双胞胎相同，西格尔不会惊讶。但初步结果表明，在一些特征上，同卵双胞胎没有她起先预想的那么不同。“我对于极端不同环境的效果有了真正的尊重，”西格尔说。
Perhaps the results merely indicate that people raised in deeply rural environments, with little education, take tests in a wholly different manner from those who attended a university. William, who managed a small business with competence, at times seemed overwhelmed by the test. But Segal considered the young men’s story a case history that might provoke further research, inspiring others to seek out more examples of twins reared apart with significantly different upbringings, whatever they were.
可能结果只是说明在高度农业化地区长大、受过很少教育的人和上过大学的人考试的方式完全不同。威廉在经营小生意方面很能胜任，却深受学业打击。但西格尔认为这些年轻人的实例，可以驱使进一步研究，激励其他人寻找在完全不同的环境中长大的分养双胞胎。
Over the course of the week that the young men spent on Segal’s questionnaires, they looked back at the past that helped make them who they were. How many books did they have in their childhood homes? Did they ever smoke? Did they grow up in families in which people kept their feelings to themselves? For one week, they stepped out of time to look backward. But the moment Segal would leave, they would continue on their usual paths, speeding forward toward some unknown future, colliding with chance. They sometimes talked about all living together; as four, William liked to think, they were at their strongest. Like members of any family, they might drift and then regroup, or find themselves falling back on the deep comfort of their particular bonds. It is rare to grow up as a twin at all, part of a primal pair; now each young man had a second, rare pairing, a second chance at an unusual kind of closeness. What did that kind of entanglement — a double-­doubling — mean for whom they would each become or what they might achieve?
这些年轻人们在西格尔的问卷上花了一周时间，他们回溯过往，正是这些过往使他们成为了当今的样子。他们童年的家中有多少书？他们抽过烟吗？他们的家里人是否习惯于隐藏感情？一周来，他们脱离现在，回望曾经。但西格尔离开的时候，他们会继续走在惯常的路上，向某个未知的未来加速前进，与机会相逢。他们有时会讨论干脆都生活在一起；威廉喜欢这么想：四个人的时候，人多力量大。就像任何家庭一样，他们会漂泊，也会团聚。原本作为双胞胎长大就相当罕见；现在每个年轻人还有了第二个稀有的配对，一种不寻常的亲密的二次机会。对于他们会成为谁、会成就什么，这种错养后的纠缠意味着什么？
To celebrate the end of a week’s worth of research, Segal and Montoya decided to take the young men dancing one night at a popular Bogotá steak house with a big dance floor. Jorge and William took turns dancing with Segal; they smiled gamely and turned and twirled with only glancing attention to the rhythm. Carlos, in his element, showed Wilber a few steps; they danced in not-­quite-­synchrony, side by side, Carlos with sureness, Wilber staring down at his feet and concentrating. Occasionally he looked up, as if he was feeling it: He would get the hang of it soon enough, he knew. ‘‘Wilber has the goods,’’ Montoya said, watching from the table. ‘‘He just needs the experience.’’ When all the brothers stopped for more aguardiente, a sugar-­cane based liqueur, and sat at the table, they took turns flirting with a young woman who had joined the party.
为了庆祝一周的研究结束，西格尔和蒙托亚决定把年轻人们带到波哥大一家有大舞池的著名牛排馆跳舞。乔治和威廉轮流与西格尔共舞；他们愉快地微笑，回身、旋转，只是偶尔关注一下旋律。卡洛斯得心应手地给威尔伯展示了几个舞步；他们并肩起舞，跳得不完全同步。卡洛斯充满信心，威尔伯则盯着自己的脚，全神贯注。偶尔他会向上看，像在感受：他很快就能掌握跳舞了，他知道。“威尔伯有真本事，”蒙托亚从桌子往这边看着说，“他只需要多点经验。”所有兄弟停下脚步来坐在桌边喝甘蔗烧酒，轮流和加入派对的年轻女孩调情。
Here at the club, Carlos was assured, poised, smooth. As the evening wore on and he drank more aguardiente, his moves got bigger, more daring, until he was showing off a maneuver that he and a friend had made up one night, a pivot from the waist that had him leaning so far back that his spine was practically parallel with the floor, his knees bent and nearly buckling. Carlos called that move ‘‘the Matrix,’’ after a similar backward dodge that the movie’s star, Keanu Reeves, executes while evading bullets in a parallel universe. As he leaned all the way back, Carlos looked as if he might lose his balance altogether. Wilber, William and Jorge quickly surrounded him, still dancing, a mixture of emotions on their faces: amusement, irritation, concern. But Carlos was not falling. It only looked that way, and he managed to right himself.
在夜总会里，卡洛斯自信又镇定。夜晚时间流逝，他喝了很多酒，动作也越来越大、越来越猛，他开始炫耀他和一个朋友某晚创造的动作。他重心往后靠，直到他的脊椎几乎和地面平行，他扭着膝盖，几近完全弯曲。卡洛斯把这个动作命名为“黑客帝国”，因为明星基努·里维斯在平行宇宙里用同样的后弯动作躲子弹。威尔伯、威廉和乔治很快围住他，他们仍然在跳舞，脸上混合各种表情：发笑、生气、担心。但卡洛斯没有摔倒。他仅仅是看起来要摔，而他成功地保持住姿势。
The dancing went on as before. The four men seemed to bounce off one another in different pairs and groupings, splitting off in search of young women, returning to compare notes before heading out onto the floor again. They were one, they were two, they were four, merging, dividing and merging again as the music played, long into the evening.
舞步纷沓，四个人的排列错综复杂，然后又各自弹开，分头搜寻年轻女孩，再回来交流，之后继续回到舞池。他们是一个人、两个人、四个人，随着音乐融合、分离、再度融合，直到深夜。