For three weeks, they would have seen America through the sunny lens of a Southern California summer camp: learning about American customs and English idioms in the mornings, visiting local theme parks in the afternoons and touring Stanford University and the Google campus on the weekends.
本来，他们会用三周的时间，通过阳光灿烂的南加州的一个夏令营活动来了解美国：上午学习美国风俗和英语习语，下午去当地的主题公园，周末参观斯坦福大学(Stanford University)和谷歌(Google)总部。
To see it all, the Chinese teenagers from Zhejiang Province had to fly through Seoul, South Korea, and into San Francisco International Airport, where their plane clipped the edge of the runway, skidded and burst into flames. Two of the students were left dead on the tarmac — the only fatalities — as their classmates fled the burning aircraft.
为了实现这些目标，这些来自中国浙江的青少年需经由韩国首尔抵达旧金山国际机场(San Francisco International Airport)。然而，在旧金山国际机场，他们乘坐的飞机撞到了跑道边缘，打滑并燃起了大火。其中两名学生死在了柏油碎石跑道上，成了这次事故仅有的两名遇难者，他们的同学则逃离了正在燃烧的飞机。
The two 16-year-old victims were identified on Sunday as Ye Mengyuan and Wang Linjia, both girls from the town of Jiangshan, who were among 34 10th-grade students and chaperones bound for the camp at West Valley Christian School outside Los Angeles.
周日，这两名同为16岁的遇难者身份得到了确认，她们是叶梦圆和王琳佳，都来自江山市。包括她们在内的34名高一学生和几名监护人原本要去洛杉矶郊外的西谷基督教学校(West Valley Christian School)，在那里参加夏令营。
Online, Wang Linjia had posted that she hoped time could dilute “the thick coffee in her cup,” perhaps easing some sadness about separating from her classmates for the coming school term back home. Ye Mengyuan had written just days ago that she was “gloomy,” but other posts hinted at a brighter side: a love of dogs, of animation and of Japanese, Korean and American television.
王琳佳曾在网上发帖，说她希望时间能冲淡“杯里的浓咖啡”，兴许是为了减轻回国后接下来这一学期与同学别离的哀伤。短短几天之前，叶梦圆也写过自己很“郁闷”，其他帖子却显示了她更乐观的一面：喜欢狗和动画片，爱看日剧、韩剧和美剧。
The girls and their classmates were part of a wave of thousands of affluent Chinese children who come to the United States each summer for language study and cultural immersion, many passing through California on their way to tour Ivy League campuses, go swimming, eat chili dogs and practice their English.
这两个女孩和她们的同学，是数千名中国富家孩子形成的浪潮中的一部分。他们每年夏天都来美国学习语言，体验文化，其中许多人都会在游览常青藤联盟(Ivy League)大学、游泳、吃辣肉酱热狗和练习英语的途中经过加利福尼亚州。
“Those two could’ve easily been girls coming to my camp,” said Steve Haines, who runs Horizons USA, an immersion camp for international students near Philadelphia. “I have plenty of girls just like them.”
“她们两人本来很可能成为来我的夏令营的女孩，”在费城附近经营视野美国(Horizons USA)的史蒂夫·海恩斯(Steve Haines)说。视野美国是一个面向国际学生的体验营地。“我这里有许多跟她们一样的女孩。”
He said he had already fielded several calls from worried parents in China, where about three-quarters of his international campers come from, some as young as 8.
他说自己已经接了好几个电话，全都是焦急的中国家长打来的。他那个夏令营的国际学生当中约有四分之三来自中国，一些学生只有8岁。
Chinese students have been enrolling in American universities and even private high schools in droves for years, with almost 200,000 coming to the United States on student visas in the 2011-12 academic year. But it has become more and more common for well-off families in China to send children to summer camps throughout America, which many Chinese parents see as preparation for studying at American universities or, increasingly, private high schools.
多年来，一直有中国学生陆续来美国的大学甚至私立高中就读。2011至2012学年，持学生签证来美国的人差不多达到了20万。另一方面，中国富裕家庭把孩子送到美国各地参加夏令营的现象也已经越来越常见，许多中国家长认为，这是为在美国上大学或私立高中做准备。在美国上私立高中的中国学生日渐普遍。
Directors of these summer programs say it has become a competitive industry, buoyed by China’s economic ascent, a favorable exchange rate and parents willing to pay to give their children an edge in admission at American high schools and colleges.
这些夏令营活动的负责人表示，由于中国的经济增长、有利的汇率以及家长为让孩子获得美国高中和大学的录取优势而掏钱的强烈意愿，这已经成了一个充满竞争的行业。
The programs can cost as much as $12,000 for a few weeks at a prestigious campus, though prices in the range of $2,000 to $7,000 are more common. Many parents also pay extra fees to agencies that place their children with the American programs.
在知名大学度过几周的花费可以高达1.2万美元（约合7.4万美元），不过，2000至7000美元之间的价格更为普遍。许多父母还得向安排孩子参加美国项目的机构支付额外的费用。
“Many of them are thinking about university,” said David Lin, the director of the Chinese Culture Association, whose camp is in San Bernardino, Calif. “But their parents also want them to experience American life.” 
中国文化协会(Chinese Culture Association)的夏令营设在加州圣贝纳迪诺。该协会主任戴维·林(David Lin)说，“这些孩子有很多都是在考虑上大学的事情。不过，他们的父母也希望他们能感受美国生活。”
Mr. Lin’s program hosts as many as 500 Chinese students a year, who come for two weeks at a time. Most are the children of real estate moguls, engineers and doctors. Between English classes and sports at the Y.M.C.A., they explore local landmarks and go on to visit Washington, Disneyland and the campuses of Harvard, Yale and M.I.T.
每年都有多达500名中国学生参加戴维·林的项目，来一次就会待上两周。大部分学生是地产大鳄、工程师及医生的子女。他们在基督教青年会（Young Men's Christian Association，简称YMCA）上英语课，参加体育活动，此外还会周游当地的地标性地点，然而继续游览华盛顿、迪士尼乐园(Disneyland)以及哈佛大学(Harvard University)、耶鲁大学(Yale University)和麻省理工学院(MIT)的校园。
Some camps include SAT preparation and consultations on applying to selective high schools and colleges. Others offer specialized classes in science, journalism or American etiquette. Still others promise full immersion, like Horizons USA, where students stay with host families and spend their days playing sports and games alongside American children.
一些夏令营的项目包括SAT准备课程，以及关于如何申请精英高中及大学的咨询活动。另一些夏令营则提供科学、新闻或美国礼仪专门课程。还有一些夏令营承诺让孩子完全融入美国。举例来说，视野美国的学生就住在当地人家里，跟美国孩子一起玩游戏，参加体育活动。
West Valley Christian School, where the Zhejiang group was scheduled to start on Monday, has hosted groups from Korea every year for the past 12 years. The group from Zhejiang was to be the school’s first Chinese group, and several church members who had signed up to host the schoolchildren were shocked and “devastated,” said Derek Swales, the school’s administrator.
按照计划，这批浙江学生将于周日进驻西谷基督教学校。过去12年，该学校每年都在接待来自韩国的学生。这批浙江学生将是该校接待的第一批中国学生。该校管理者德雷克·斯维尔斯(Derek Swales)说，几个志愿接待这些学生的教会成员很震惊，表示“非常伤心”。
The students’ school, Jiangshan Middle School in eastern China, was locally renowned for sending students to China’s top universities — and some of America’s finest, including Harvard and Yale. It had arranged similar summer programs for its students in previous years, local Chinese news media reported, with each student paying about $5,000 to attend.
这些学生来自中国东部的江山中学。该校在当地以学生考上中国顶尖名校及包括哈佛、耶鲁在内的美国名校而闻名。当地的中国媒体报道称，过去几年，该校也为学生组织过类似的夏令营活动。每个学生支付约5000美元的费用。
“They’re trying to learn the English language and understand America,” Mr. Swales said. “They want to learn how quickly people speak here and listen to all the idioms, like what does it mean to say ‘off the wall.’ ”
“他们的目的是学习英语，同时理解美国，”斯韦尔斯说，“他们想知道这里的人说英语有多快，想听听各种习语，想知道‘墙外’(off the wall)之类的短语是什么意思。”
He said the students’ motivation was simple: to gain an advantage in American college admissions. “Their No. 1 reason is to be prepared for college,” he said. “Their parents are putting down a lot of money for them to see it and taste it.”
他说，这些学生的动机很简单：获得被美国大学录取的优势。“他们的首要动机是为上大学做准备，”他说，“他们的父母投入了不少钱，就是为了让他们看一看，尝一尝。”
Mr. Swales said he believed that the Zhejiang group would now return to China instead of coming to West Valley, adding that the church would hold a vigil on Thursday evening for the victims. He held up an envelope of donations collected during Sunday services for the girls’ families.
斯韦尔斯说，他相信，这个浙江团体现在会返回中国，不会再前往西谷。他补充说，该教堂将在周四晚间为遇难者举行守夜仪式。他举起了一个信封，里面装的是周日礼拜时人们捐给女孩家庭的钱。
The students are still in San Francisco, where the Chinese Consulate is coordinating their care, said Wang Chuan, a consulate spokesman. He said the consulate was arranging for the parents of the victims to fly to San Francisco.
这些学生现在仍在旧金山，中国领事馆在那里协调照顾他们，领事馆发言人王川说。他说，领事馆正在安排事故受害者的父母飞往旧金山。
In China, it was reported that parents gathered at the school to await news of their children, and state-run news media showed a pair of parents slumped over desks and crying after speaking to officials in San Francisco.
中国方面的报道称，家长们聚集在学校里，等待着自己孩子的消息。官方媒体的报道显示，与旧金山官员通话之后，一对父母趴在桌子上哭泣。
Neither family could be reached on Sunday. But because of China’s one-child policy, both girls were likely to have been their parents’ only children, just like a vast majority of those whose families send them to the United States every year. The Ye family had named their daughter Mengyuan, which in Chinese means “a dream becomes true.”
两个学生的家庭周日都无法联系。不过，鉴于中国实行独生子女政策，这两名女孩多半都是她们父母唯一的孩子，就像每年把孩子送往美国的绝大多数家庭一样。叶家给女儿起名梦圆，意思是“梦想成真”。