Summer is sequel season, when the movie studios celebrate their lack of imagination by disguising it as populism. Why should movie critics be any different? Five years ago, we published the first installment of our “Memos to Hollywood,” in which we presumed to give advice to everyone involved in the making, distributing and watching of movies. And now we’re back with another spectacular, game-changing, blockbuster episode. This time, they’ll pay attention.
夏天是续集季，电影制片公司们竞相展示他们缺乏想像力，还要把它掩饰为平民主义，那么影评人又有什么理由不效仿呢？五年前，我们初次刊登了“好莱坞备忘录”(Memos to Hollywood)这个栏目，假定我们可以给所有参与制作、发行和观看影片的人提出建议。现在我们又来到一个充满大场面和游戏改编的重磅大片的观影季。这一次，他们得当心了。
To: Hollywood liberals
致：好莱坞自由派
Cc: Amy Pascal, Steven Spielberg, etc.
抄送：埃米·帕斯卡尔(Amy Pascal)、史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)等
From: Manohla Dargis
自：曼诺拉·达吉斯(Manohla Dargis)
You donated millions to President Obama’s campaigns, you drive hybrid cars. You don’t like fracking, you do like recycling. You’re against bullying, you’re for marriage equality. You’ve traveled from Haiti to Congo, Sudan and beyond to lend a generous hand. The six major studios plant trees, recycle, reuse and even compost, and claim that they’re working on becoming 100 percent sustainable. In 2011, Sony Pictures Entertainment in Culver City, Calif., became the first zero waste lot, which, unfortunately, doesn’t mean the end of Adam Sandler movies. You may be confused about gun control, as is the rest of the country, and you make bank on representations of extreme violence — but when it comes to many issues, you are often as liberal as conservatives insist you are.
你们向奥巴马总统的竞选捐赠了成百上千万美元，你们开着混合动力车。你们不喜欢液压破裂法（一种天然气开采方式——译注），你们喜欢循环利用。你们反对压迫，你们支持婚姻平权。你们到处旅行，从海地到刚果、苏丹，乃至更远的地方，到处伸出慷慨的援手。六个大制片公司到处种树、搞回收再利用，甚至加工肥料，声称自己正在成为百分百的可持续性企业。2011年，加州卡尔弗城的索尼影视娱乐有限公司率先实现了零废物，不幸的是，这并不意味着亚当·桑德勒(Adam Sandler)系列电影的终结。和这个国家的其他人一样，你们或许会对枪支管制感到困惑，又通过极端暴力的电影发财——但在许多问题上，你们的自由派立场通常只是相对保守派而言的。
So ... what’s up with not hiring women to direct movies? Is there something about double-X chromosomes that makes you squeamish? Are women biologically incapable of directing movies, especially the franchises that prop up the big studios year after year? It’s not like women can’t blow stuff up (see Kathryn Bigelow) and that every man can shoot action (see “Divergent,” etc.). It’s great when the industry takes a chance on a new talent, but how about mixing it up? Sony tapped Marc Webb, whose sole previous feature was the modest romantic comedy, “(500) Days of Summer,” to revive the “Spider-Man” franchise, and Anthony and Joe Russo, TV guys, were handed “Captain America.” Now Colin Trevorrow, who’s directed exactly one itty-bitty independent feature, “Safety Not Guaranteed,” has been tapped to direct the reboot of the “Jurassic Park” series. When Deadline.com announced the news of his hire, it asked, “Why Trevorrow?” Good question.
这个……你们为什么不雇用女人来导演电影？两个X的染色体令你们不悦吗？女人是不是生理上有什么问题，不能导演电影，特别是年复一年充斥在大制片公司的这些商业大片？女人并不是不能玩爆炸场面——看看凯瑟琳·毕格罗(Kathryn Bigelow)吧——也不是所有男人都会拍动作片——比如《分歧者》(Divergent)之类片子。电影业在新秀身上冒险总是很棒的，但是混搭一下怎么样呢？马克·韦布(Marc Webb)之前只拍过温和的浪漫喜剧《与莎莫在一起的500天》(500 Days of Summer)，索尼找他来重拍《蜘蛛侠》(Spider-Man)系列大片，还有拍电视的安东尼(Anthony)和乔·罗素(Joe Russo)，被找来拍摄《美国队长》(Captain America)。科林·特雷沃罗(Colin Trevorrow)之前只拍过一部极小的独立电影《安全没有保障》(Safety Not Guaranteed)，如今被找来执导《侏罗纪公园》(Jurassic Park)系列的重新启动。当Deadline.com网站宣布这个消息时，问到“为什么是特雷沃罗？”真是个好问题。
To: Everyone who is freaking out about the new Barbie and Peeps movies.
致：任何被新芭比和Peeps棉花糖电影吓到的人
From: A. O. Scott
自：A·O·斯科特(A. O. Scott)
“The Lego Movie” was really good! And while I wouldn’t necessarily say the same of the “Transformers” franchise, that Hasbro-Paramount corporate mind-meld, as realized by Michael Bay, has its own kind of aggressive capitalist integrity. Whether we like it or not, mass-produced plastic toys are objects of affection and vehicles for the imagination, as the “Toy Story” movies so brilliantly proved. And since commercial movies are clogged with distracting and clumsy product placements anyway, we should applaud rather than complain when the studios cut out the coyness and obliterate the near-obsolete distinction between entertainment and advertising.
《乐高大电影》(The Lego Movie)真的很不错！但我不想说《变形金刚》(Transformers)系列大片也是如此。在迈克尔·贝(Michael Bay)心目中，它就是孩之宝-派拉蒙融合的产物，这部片子显示出独具一格的资本融合的积极方式。不管我们喜欢不喜欢，正如《玩具总动员》(Toy Story)系列证明的，大规模生产的塑料玩具受人们喜爱，也是承载想像力的容器。商业电影反正也要受到令人分心而且笨拙的植入广告阻碍，那么当这些电影公司不再羞怯，终于抹去娱乐与广告之间那条本来就近于模糊的界限时，我们应该为它们鼓掌而不是抱怨。
But why limit the cinematic hard sell to kids’ stuff? Don’t grown-up consumers deserve to have their favorite products celebrated at feature length, with a misfit hero and a wacky sidekick on a journey of self-discovery? Let’s hope that someday soon a studio genius gives the green light to “The Starbucks Venti Red-Eye Movie.” Or “The SKYY Vodka Movie.” Or “The Durex Condom Movie.” Or “The Toyota Prius Movie.” Or “The Medical Marijuana Movie.” Really, the possibilities are endless.
但是为什么要把这些影院硬广告局限在儿童用品之内呢？成人消费者就不能看到他们喜欢的产品拥有完整长度影片，里面有别扭的主人公和疯疯癫癫的配角来一次自我发现的旅行呢？让我们期待不久的将来，某位制片天才会给“星巴克超大杯红眼咖啡电影”、“SKYY伏特加电影”、“杜蕾斯避孕套电影”、“丰田普锐斯电影”或者“医用大麻电影”开绿灯。真的，还有无穷无尽的可能性呢。
To: Sony
致：索尼
Cc: A.O.S.
抄送：A·O·斯科特
Bcc: The ghosts of D. W. Griffith, James Agee, Ben Hecht, Pauline Kael, David O. Selznick, etc.
密送：D·W·格里菲斯(D. W. Griffith)、詹姆斯·艾吉(James Agee)、本·赫克特(Ben Hecht)、宝琳·凯尔(Pauline Kael)、大卫·O·塞尔兹尼克(David O. Selznick)等人的鬼魂。
From: M.D.
自：曼诺拉·达吉斯
Come on — a Barbie movie?!
什么——芭比电影？！
To: The movie studios
致：所有电影公司
Cc: Netflix, Apple, cable television, YouTube, BitTorrent, the Criterion Collection, Hulu, Google, Dropbox, Amazon, Facebook (and 37 more)
抄送：Netflix、苹果、有线电视、YouTube、BitTorrent、标准电影公司(Criterion Collection)、Hulu、谷歌、Dropbox、亚马逊、Facebook（以及37家其他公司）
From: A.O.S.
自：A·O·斯科特
We like to watch movies. We like to watch them at home, on tablets and flat screens, and at the gym or on planes or even in movie theaters. Ideally, we would like to be able to watch what we want, where and when we want, for as little money as possible. We are interested in quality, novelty and variety, but also in the familiar, the easy and the comfortable. If you keep making us happy, we will keep making you rich. We will also continue to complain.
我们爱看电影。我们喜欢在家里、在平板电脑上、在平板电视上、在健身房里、在飞机上，甚至是在影院里看电影。理想地说，我们只花一点钱，就能在任何地点，任何时候看到任何我们想看的东西。我们关注质量、新奇和多样化，但是也注重亲切、轻松和舒适。如果你们一直让我们快乐，我们就会让你们发财。而且我们还要继续抱怨。
To: Paramount Pictures
致：派拉蒙影业公司
Cc: Disney, Fox, Sony, Universal, Warner Bros.
抄送：迪士尼、福克斯、索尼、环球、华纳兄弟
From: M.D.
自：曼诺拉·达吉斯
In January Paramount Pictures became the first major studio to stop releasing movies on film in the United States. The other majors are expected to follow suit soon, now that they’ve forced most theaters in the country to go digital because of its nominal ease of use and cost. For many viewers, this may not be a big deal because, for them, a movie is a movie is a movie, whether film or digital. And the history of home video rental suggests that a lot of people are perfectly happy to watch degraded imagery as long as they like the story. For some of us, though, the changeover is an unfolding tragedy and an unnecessary one. Because this isn’t about a superior technology; this is about the industry’s greed and continued shortsightedness. Banishing film to the dustbin of history may not change cinema — unless of course it does.
1月，派拉蒙影业公司成了美国第一家不再以胶片形式发行电影的大型电影公司。其他大公司很快也将步上后尘，因为成本和使用方面的一点点原因，它们迫使美国的大多数影院实现数字化。对于许多观众来说，这不是什么大事，因为对于他们来说，电影就是电影，不管是胶片的还是数码的。而家庭录像租借的历史表明，很多人不在乎看质量较低的影像，只要故事是他们喜欢的就行了。然而对于我们当中的一些人来说，这个转变是个正在上演的悲剧，而且完全没有必要发生。因为这并不是关乎高科技，而是关乎行业的贪婪与持续的短视。把胶片扔到垃圾箱里或许对电影院没什么影响——除非影响确实存在。
To: The Internet
致：互联网
Cc: Everyone who writes about “the Internet”
抄送：所有正在就“互联网”话题写点什么的人
From: A.O.S.
自：A·O·斯科特
Subject: Stop confusing quantity with quality. Stop hyping the revolutionary potential of “data,” “innovation” and other empty abstractions. Stop trying to fix things that weren’t broken and breaking things that you can’t fix. Just stop.
主题：别再把数量和质量混为一谈了。别再大肆宣传“数据”、“革新”和其他空洞的抽象概念的革命性潜力了。别再试着修补还没被破坏的东西，同时又去破坏你们根本修补不了的东西了。停下就对了。
[This message has no content.]
【这条信息没有内容】
To: Directors
致：导演们
Cc: Moviegoers, reviewers
抄送：去影院看电影的人，影评人
From: M.D.
自：曼诺拉·达吉斯
Do you know that, increasingly, your labor of love — the movie you spent months and probably years of your life on — is being reviewed by critics who are watching it on their computers? For years, the cost of striking and shipping film prints as well as renting theaters for press screenings led cash-strapped companies to simply supply DVDs to reviewers. Some reviewers have been happy to comply, and of course, the blurring between the big- and small-screen viewing, and the closing of theatrical windows, hasn’t helped. After all, if a movie is being released in theaters and on demand the same day, why bother watching it on the big screen — or so the bottom-line thinking goes.
你们知道吗，你们付出的这些有爱的劳动——你们花费人生中数月乃至数年时间拍摄的电影——只是被越来越多的评论家在电脑上看过后就来写评论。近年来，制作和运送电影印刷品，以及包场的媒体放映会的成本使得缺钱的公司只能把影片DVD送给评论家们。有些评论家欣然同意，当然，大银幕与小屏幕之间的时间差，也就是两者间的窗口期越来越短也是原因。毕竟如果一部电影同一天在影院上映以及在家里的电视上就能点播，那么“为什么要费劲到大屏幕上去看它呢”，会成为人们最基本的想法。
These days, though, some companies don’t even bother to send critics DVDs: They’re only supplying Internet links that often have the reviewer’s name watermarked on the crummy-looking image, and even come with distracting time codes. So that moody shot that you and your director of photography anguished over for hours and hours? It may look beautiful, but there are critics who will never know, which certainly encourages them to pay more attention to the plot than the visuals. Viewers who bypass the theatrical experience and prefer watching movies on their televisions and tablets may not mind. Some directors, especially those whose talking heads and two shots look better on small screens, also won’t care; others just want their work seen however, wherever. But I bet there are directors who would freak if they knew how some critics were watching their movies.
但是如今，有些公司连给评论家送DVD的心都不费了，他们只是丢去互联网上的链接，低劣的画面上打有评论者的名字水印，甚至还带有分散观影注意力的时间码。难道这些凌乱的镜头就是你们和你们的摄影师们花费无数小时打磨出来的作品吗？它们本来可以很美，但有些评论家可能永远也不会知道了；这种做法自然会鼓励他们更多关注情节而不是视觉效果。只是偶尔随便才进影院，更爱在电视或平板电脑上看电影的观众或许并不介意。有些导演片中的说话人特写头像和双人特写镜头在小屏幕上看上去更好，所以他们也不会在乎；其他人觉得只要他们的片子有人看就行了，不管在哪儿看，怎么看。但我打赌，有些导演如果知道一些评论家看他们的电影的方式，会感觉很愤怒的。
To: Television
致：电视
Cc: Movies
抄送：电影
From: A.O.S.
自：A·O·斯科特
Subject: Get over yourselves
标题：战胜你们自己
American popular culture is acting out a version of the parable of the prodigal son. The younger sibling, a habitual underachiever, is now basking in glory while the firstborn suffers from neglect. The current conventional wisdom holds that television has entered a golden age while movies are in a period of decline. Those are dubious notions for many reasons — for one thing, a lot of TV is still really terrible, and a lot of movies are really good — but there is no doubt that the small screen has snatched some of the cultural prestige that cinema has long regarded as its birthright.
美国流行文化有如一个神童预言。这个小弟弟，大家心目中的落后者，如今却沐浴在荣耀之中，而年长的兄弟们却备受忽略。当前人们普遍认为，电视进入了黄金时代，而电影正处于衰落期。出于许多原因，这其实只是含糊的观念，比如说，很多电视节目仍然非常糟糕，也有很多非常好的电影，但毫无疑问，小屏幕已经从电影手中夺去了不少文化声望，这些声望本来被认为是电影的天赋特权。
Reports of this rivalry tend to understate the creative overlap and corporate codependency of the two art forms. Movies and television series are frequently produced in the same facilities by the same people. Actors, writers and filmmakers migrate from one medium to the other so often that rather than ask which is better, we might do better to ask which is which. (Even the most obvious difference, between serial and self-contained stories, is starting to unravel in the age of the multisequel franchise, the self-contained “bottle episode” and the binge watch). Each might have something to learn from the other. Television needs more visual inventiveness and personal vision, while movies could use some of the darkness that pervades the best TV dramas and the anarchy that animates its most daring comedies.
报道这种对立的作者们倾向于淡化两种艺术形式之间在创造力上的重叠，乃至它们的互相合作与互相依存。电影和电视剧经常是由同样的设备与同样的人拍出来的。演员、编剧和导演经常从一种媒介转向另一种媒介，根本不问哪一种更好，我们最好也别问谁是专门搞电影的，谁是专门搞电视剧的（就连连续剧与独立故事之间最明显的区别也开始在多部系列大片、独立的“瓶中集”和一口气看完的剧集之中解体了）。二者都可以从对方身上学到东西。电视需要更多视觉创新和个人角度，电影需要接纳更多蔓延在最好的剧情电视剧中的那种黑暗，以及最大胆的电视喜剧中的那种无政府气质。
To: Megan Ellison
致：梅根·艾利森(Megan Ellison)
Cc: Other modern Medicis
抄送：其他现代美第奇们(Medici)
From: M.D.
自：曼诺拉·达吉斯
Nice job on making made cinema better in 2013 by supporting “American Hustle,” “The Grandmaster,” “Her” and “Spring Breakers.” Bob Rafelson and Bert Schneider, who founded the groovy 1960s company Raybert Productions (later known as BBS Productions) — and gave us “Easy Rider,” “Five Easy Pieces,” “The Last Picture Show” and “Hearts and Mind” — would dig where you’re coming from. Now, though, I was wondering if you’d like to take a few more risks. Most of the filmmakers you’ve backed, including Kathryn Bigelow (“Zero Dark Thirty”) and Paul Thomas Anderson (“The Master”), were already established names when you wrote checks for their films.
2013年支持拍摄《美国骗局》(American Hustle)、《一代宗师》(The Grandmaster)、《她》(Her)和《春假》(Spring Breakers)，促进了电影发展，你们做得不错。鲍勃·拉菲尔森(Bob Rafelson)和伯特·史耐德在20世纪60年代创立了出色的贝伯特制片公司（后来的BBS制片公司），为我们带来了《逍遥骑士》(Easy Rider)、《五支歌》(Five Easy Pieces)和《心灵与智慧》(Hearts and Mind)等电影，他们会理解你们的出发点是什么。不过，我还是想知道，如果你们愿意多冒一点险会怎样。你支持的大多数导演，包括凯瑟琳·毕格罗和她的《猎杀本·拉登》(Zero Dark Thirty)，保罗·托马斯·安德森(Paul Thomas Anderson)和他的《大师》(The Master)，早在你出资赞助之前就已经功成名就。
How about throwing some money at more untested directors like Barry Jenkins, who made the lovely “Medicine for Melancholy” (2008) and has been having a tough time getting another feature going? Or how about Dee Rees, whose moving feature debut, “Pariah,” was one of the best of 2011? (Spike Lee was an executive producer on that, so he can vouch for her.) Do you know Andrew Bujalski’s work (“Computer Chess”)? He’s terrific, and could use a patron with pockets as deep as yours. I bet that the young filmmakers who formed Court 13 — the collective that created “Beasts of the Southern Wild” — would be happy to get together to brainstorm. And, unlike Harvey Weinstein, who apparently made you cry, according to that mean 2013 Vanity Fair profile, the folks at Court 13 are really nice.
投一点钱给没怎么受过考验的导演们怎么样？比如巴里·詹金斯(Barry Jenkins)，2008年，他拍了可爱的《忧郁的解药》(Medicine for Melancholy, 2008)，但却很难再获得一次拍摄完整长片的机会。还有迪伊·里斯(Dee Rees)，她的处女长片《贱民》(Pariah)是2011年最好的影片之一。斯派克·李(Spike Lee)是该片的制片之一，他可以为她打包票。你知道安德鲁·巴亚尔斯基(Andrew Bujalski)的作品《电脑棋局》(Computer Chess)吗？他很棒，能吸引到和你一样有钱的赞助人。一些年轻电影人合作创立了曾拍出《南方野兽》(Beasts of the Southern Wild)的Court 13公司，我打赌他们会很高兴大家聚在一起头脑风暴。而且，Court 13的年轻人对人都很好，与哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)不同，根据2013年《名利场》(Vanity Fair)那篇刻薄的人物特写，他显然把你弄哭了。
To: Scott Rudin
致：斯科特·鲁丁(ScottRudin)
From: A.O.S.
自：A·O·斯科特
Retweets are not endorsements.
推特上的转发并不代表认可。
To: Movie critics
致：影评人
From: M.D.
自：曼诺拉·达吉斯
Here’s an idea: how about we all stop writing about ourselves, about other movie critics, about other critics’ opinions, about the state of criticism and about what criticism should and should not be. How about we just write about, you know, movies?
我有这么一个想法：我们干嘛不停止写我们自己，以及其他影评人，还有其他评论家的观点，乃至评论界的状况，还有影评到底应该是什么样，不应该是什么样。我们干嘛不只写一个题材呢？你懂的，电影。
To: Movie Critics
致：影评人
From: A.O.S.
自：A·O·斯科特
But we should not suppose that we are only writing about movies. That is, while we should of course pay attention to the visual attributes and emotional effects of what we are watching, we should also think about how movies exist in the world, and what they say about it. This will not turn criticism into sociology or politics, but rather strengthen its identity as a form of journalism and even literature. It never hurts to ask, what would James Agee have done? Also, we should stop telling other critics what to do.
但我们不应该觉得我们只是在写电影。我的意思是，当然，我们应当关注我们所看到的的视觉属性和感情成分，我们还应当想到电影是如何在这个世界中存在，关于这个世界，它们又说了些什么。这不会把影评变成社会学或政治，只会加深它作为一种新闻乃至文学的属性。扪心自问：詹姆斯·艾吉会怎样做？
Also, don’t let other critics tell you what to do.
此外，我们也不应该告诉其他评论家他们该做什么。