They were supposed to trade one island paradise for another: a monthlong sailing trip in spring, from Honolulu to Tahiti.
她们本该从一个岛屿天堂换到另一个：在春日里从火奴鲁鲁出发，航行一个月抵达塔希提岛。
But on Wednesday morning, they were discovered in the wrong hemisphere, 5,000 miles off course and nearly six months into a dream that had curdled into a nightmare.
但周三上午，她们在错误的半球被人发现。此时，她们偏离航线5000英里（约合8000公里），离出发已经过去了近六个月，曾几何时，一场美梦变成了噩梦。
Jennifer Appel and Tasha Fuiaba were rescued by the Navy vessel the Ashland 900 miles south of Japan, according to a statement released by the Navy on Thursday. After setting out in early May, a storm claimed their 50-foot boat’s engine on May 30. They spent the next five months adrift at sea and unable to make contact with others.
据海军周四发布的一份声明称，海军的“阿什兰号”(Ashland)在日本以南900英里处救起了珍妮弗·阿佩尔(Jennifer Appel)和塔莎·富亚巴(Tasha Fuiaba)。她们于5月初启程，5月30日的一场暴风雨导致她们那艘50英尺（约合15米）长的船引擎出现故障。接下来的五个月，她们一直在海上漂流，无法与他人取得联系。
The two friends survived on a water purifier and a store of oatmeal, pasta and rice, with two pet dogs, Zeus and Valentine, to keep them company.
这两个朋友靠着一台净水器和储备的燕麦片、意面和大米活了下来。陪着她们的还有两只宠物狗，宙斯(Zeus)和瓦伦丁(Valentine)。
“I had tears in my eyes,’’ Ms. Appel said of the moment she saw the Navy ship approaching, according to The Honolulu Star-Advertiser. “It was incredibly emotional.”
“我的眼泪夺眶而出，”据《檀香山星报》(The Honolulu Star-Advertiser)报道，阿佩尔说起看到海军那艘船靠近的那一刻时表示，“非常激动。”
In a video released by the Navy, she blows kisses with two hands as her rescuers arrive; Zeus and Valentine yap and circle excitedly in the background.
海军公布的一段视频显示，救援人员抵达时，她用双手做出飞吻的姿势，背景中的宙斯和瓦伦丁兴奋地大叫和转圈。
Ms. Appel, who said she had lived in Hawaii for 10 years, began planning the trip two and a half years ago out of a desire to further explore the South Pacific. But after their engine flooded, the plan went awry. Ms. Appel and Ms. Fuiaba at first believed they could get to their destination using only the boat’s sails. But two months into a journey that ordinarily takes half that long, they began to issue daily distress calls using a high-frequency radio.
阿佩尔说她在夏威夷生活了10年。因为想进一步探索南太平洋，她两年半之前就开始计划这次旅行。但引擎进水后，计划偏离正轨。阿佩尔和富亚巴起初以为只靠船帆也能抵达目的地，但两个月后——全程通常只需一个月——她们开始每天用高频无线电发出求救信号。
For 98 days, no one answered.
连续98天，无人回应。
“It was very depressing and very hopeless,” Ms. Appel said. Their boat had been too far out of range to communicate with anyone either on land or at sea. “There is true humility to wondering if today is your last day, if tonight is your last night.”
“非常沮丧，非常绝望，”阿佩尔说。她们的船偏离航线太多，导致她们既无法与陆地上的人联系，也无法与海上的人联系。“彻底打消了人的自以为是，每天都在想今天是不是生命的最后一天，今晚是不是最后一晚。”
In an interview with The Associated Press, Ms. Appel’s mother, Joyce Appel, said she had called the Coast Guard after being unable to reach her daughter a week and a half into the trip. By that point, Ms. Appel’s mobile phone had fallen overboard.
接受美联社(The Associated Press)的采访时，阿佩尔的母亲乔伊丝·阿佩尔(Joyce Appel)说，在女儿出发一周半后，她无法联系上对方，于是给海岸警卫队(Coast Guard)打电话。那时，阿佩尔的手机已经从船上落入水中了。
A Coast Guard search-and-rescue mission turned up empty, but Ms. Appel’s mother still believed her daughter would return. “I had hope all along, she is very resourceful and she’s curious and as things break, she tries to repair them,” she told The Associated Press. “She doesn’t sit and wait for the repairman to get there, so I knew the same thing would be true of the boat.”
海岸警卫队组织了搜救行动却一无所获。但阿佩尔的母亲依然相信女儿会回来。“我一直充满希望，她很机智，充满好奇心，东西坏了她会尝试修好，”她对美联社说。“她不会坐等修理人员来，所以我知道她对那艘船也一样。”
The Ashland, a ready-response vessel that operates out of Sasebo, Japan, was alerted to the location of Ms. Appel and Ms. Fuiaba’s boat by a Taiwanese fishing vessel on Oct. 24, according to the Navy. The next morning, nearly half a year of anguished uncertainty came to an end.
据海军称，10月24日，一艘台湾渔船向以日本佐世保为母港的应急船“阿什兰号”报告了阿佩尔和富亚巴所在船只的位置。第二天上午，近半年痛苦万分的不确定状态终于结束了。
“They saved our lives,” Ms. Appel said in the Navy statement. She described the feeling of seeing a ship on the horizon as “pure relief.”
“他们救了我们的命，”阿佩尔在海军发布的声明中说。她说，看到天边出现一艘船时的感受是“真的松了一口气”。
Ms. Appel and Ms. Fuiaba are currently aboard the Ashland, where they will remain until its next port of call. Their boat, deemed unseaworthy, was left behind.
阿佩尔和富亚巴目前在“阿什兰号”上。她们将一直乘坐该船，直到抵达下一个停靠港。她们那艘船因被认为不适合航海而遭弃用。