For all its ability to excite and surprise, the World Cup has a tendency to be a conservative affair. The early group matches usually fulfill the heightened expectation — allowing the minnows of the tournament to have access to a world stage usually denied them — but the knockout phases are where a certain soccer order is restored.
从来不乏激越和惊喜的世界杯(World Cup)，其实一直有一种保守倾向。早期的小组赛往往能满足人们的高期待——给比赛中那些不起眼的队伍提供了一个登上世界舞台的机会，他们通常没有这样的机会——但是在淘汰赛中，某种特定的足球秩序又将得到恢复。
And within that hierarchy, while Spain may be the reigning world champion, Brazil remains the country to beat.
在这种等级体系里，虽然冠军头衔还在西班牙头上，但巴西才是最强者。
Brazil, whose postwar history is measured in five World Cup titles, has no choice but to win the tournament. Expectations for Brazil are high not only within the country — despite endless news reports of civil unrest and an inability to complete stadiums on time — but also outside the country. Brazil remains everyone’s favorite. It has become synonymous with the game.
巴西在二战后五次赢得世界杯，它唯一的选择就是胜利。巴西内外都对巴西抱有极高的期望——尽管关于国内发生动荡以及未能按时建好球场的报道不断涌现。巴西队仍然是每个人的最爱。它已经成了这个比赛的同义词。
And yet there is a potential spoiler in South America. Argentina, a soccer superpower and a leading exporter of players around the world, hopes to ruin Brazil’s coronation.
然而，南美还有一个潜在的破坏者。作为足球强国和向世界各地输出球员的主要国家，阿根廷希望能破坏巴西的胜利。
Brazil knows heartbreak. In the 1950 World Cup final, Uruguay dealt the knockout blow to Brazil’s psyche in its 2-1 victory in the Maracanã stadium. What became known as the Maracanazo forced the country to reassess itself. Defeat proved that Brazil could not compete.
巴西知道心碎的滋味。在1950年的世界杯决赛中，乌拉圭在马拉卡纳体育场以2:1打败巴西队，给这个国家造成了毁灭性的心理创伤。这次比赛就是人们所说的“马拉卡纳打击”(Maracanazo)，它迫使巴西不得不重新认识自己。失败证明巴西无法赢球。
The Brazilian writer Nelson Rodrigues described the loss as an assault. The Uruguayan captain “ripped the title from us,” he wrote.
巴西作家内尔松·罗德里格斯(Nelson Rodrigues)把这次失败称为袭击。乌拉圭队长“把我们的冠军头衔扯了下来”，他写道。
He added, “I said ‘ripped’ as if I would say ‘extracted’ the title from us as if it were a tooth.”
他还说，“我说的是‘扯下来’，如果它是一颗牙齿，我就会说从我们嘴里‘拔下来’。”
Not having been subjected to the atrocities of two world wars — though Brazil did send 25,000 troops to fight on the side of the Allies after 1942 — the country expressed its suffering in hyperbole. Hiroshima, Waterloo and Götterdämmerung were the most famous epithets. The defeat transformed a simple soccer match into national history.
巴西没有经历两次世界大战的磨难——虽然1942年之后，巴西曾派2.5万名士兵加入同盟国的战斗，但它对痛苦的表达却很夸张。广岛、滑铁卢和诸神的黄昏是最著名的几个代称。那次失败把一场简单的足球赛变成了国家历史的一部分。
Uruguay may have been the catalyst that turned Brazil into the world’s most successful national team, but Brazil’s greatest rivalry remains with Argentina. The two nations have history. The rivalry became so problematic that between 1946 and 1956, the countries did not play each other in a competitive match. When Brazil defeated Argentina by a goal at the 1956 South American championship, it was the first time it had beaten its rival in formal competition since 1922. There was no love lost between the countries, either.
乌拉圭或许是催化剂，使巴西队变成了世界上最成功的国家队，但巴西最强大的对手仍然是阿根廷。这两个国家之间存在宿怨。两国的矛盾愈演愈烈，以至于在1946年到1956年间，两国都不曾在竞争性赛事中对阵过。在1956年的南美锦标赛中，巴西以一记进球打败阿根廷，这是它自1922年以来，首次在正式比赛中打败它的对手。两国毫不掩饰对彼此的仇视。
Despite the celebrated style of play called jogo bonito — a form of marketing genius comparable to Pelé’s postretirement career — the Brazilians were not afraid to employ more violent tactics when it suited them.
虽然有着闻名天下的“漂亮足球”(jogo bonito)风格——一种可以与贝利退役后的职业生涯相媲美的天才营销手段——巴西人并不忌讳在恰当的时机使用更暴力的战术。
Since 1950, Uruguay may see itself as Brazil’s grudge match, but that august position is reserved for the Argentines.
自从1950年那一战，乌拉圭可能认为自己是巴西旗鼓相当的对手，但是这个令人敬畏的位置仍应该留给阿根廷。
At the 1978 World Cup, fear of failure loomed large over Argentina’s match with Brazil. Predictably, the match, a 0-0 tie that would become known as the Batalha de Rosário, was as ill-tempered as any of their encounters. By 1995, the Argentines, who had conveniently chosen to forget Diego Maradona’s sleight of hand against England in Mexico nine years before, were appalled by the Brazilian Túlio using his to help himself score. Robbery and outrage were the twin accusations from the Argentine federation.
在1978年的世界杯中，害怕失败的心理在阿根廷与巴西的对抗中变得非常明显。可想而知，那场后来被称作“罗萨里奥之战”(Batalha de Rosário)的0:0平局，令比赛双方都气急败坏。阿根廷人对迭戈·马拉多纳(Diego Maradona)在墨西哥对抗英国队时用手比赛的事实选择性失忆，但九年后，当巴西队的图利奥(Túlio)也用手帮自己进球时，阿根廷人却感到震惊。抢劫和暴行是阿根廷足协常用的两项指控。
Even the countries’ greatest soccer stars, Maradona and Pelé, have an uneasy relationship. At the 1982 World Cup, Pelé singled out the young Argentine for criticism. “My main doubt is whether he has the sufficient greatness as a person to justify being honored by a worldwide audience,” Pelé said.
就连两国最伟大的球星马拉多纳和贝利也关系不和。在1982年的世界杯上，贝利单单挑年轻的阿根廷人马拉多纳进行批评。“我的主要疑问是，作为一个人，他的伟大之处是否足以享有让全世界的观众看他比赛这种荣耀，”贝利说。
More than 25 years later, Pelé was still criticizing him as he became the coach of Argentina’s national team. Maradona’s riposte was succinct: Pelé “should go back to the museum.”
25年后，当马拉多纳成为阿根廷国家队的教练时，贝利依然在抨击他。马拉多纳的回击很简洁：贝利“应该回到博物馆去”。
For the next month, the pressure will be on Brazil to perform. The world demands that this host nation reassert itself at the top of soccer’s hierarchy.
接下来的一个月里，巴西将在压力下表现自己。全世界要求这个主办国在足球世界之巅再次证明自己。
Argentina, always happy to oblige where impudence is concerned, could be waiting for its neighbor, most likely in the final. But then, the soccer gods tend to have other things in mind. Will the hosts exit the competition after the first round? This remains a possibility. After all, it is a Latin American World Cup, where anything can happen.
在需要粗暴行事的时候从来乐意奉陪的阿根廷，大概正在等着邻居，两支队伍极有可能在决赛场上相见。不过，足球之神往往想的跟我们不一样。东道主会在第一轮就被淘汰吗？这依然是有可能的。毕竟，这是一届在什么事情都有可能发生的拉丁美洲举办的世界杯。