MOSCOW — Two men, one a police officer who fought Islamic insurgents in Chechnya and the second a security guard, were charged in a Moscow court Sunday in connection with the killing of Boris Y. Nemtsov, a leading Kremlin critic, while three other suspects were jailed pending further investigation.
莫斯科——周日，被控与主要的克里姆林宫批评者鲍里斯·Y·涅姆佐夫(Boris Y. Nemtsov)遇害案有关的两名男子——一名曾在车臣与伊斯兰叛乱分子作战的警察和一名保安——在莫斯科出庭受审。另有三名嫌疑人被拘，等候进一步调查。
Judge Nataliya Mushnikova of Basmanny District Court said that the officer, Zaur Dadayev, had confessed to involvement in the killing and that other evidence confirmed his participation, Russian news agencies reported, but no further details were available. The second suspect charged, Anzor Gubashev, pleaded not guilty.
据俄罗斯的通讯社报道，巴斯曼区法院( Basmanny District Court)法官娜塔莉亚·穆什尼科娃(Nataliya Mushnikova)称，名为绍尔·达达耶夫(Zaur Dadayev)的警察承认涉案，有证据证明他确实参与其中，但进一步的详细信息并未被公开。受到指控的另一名嫌疑人安佐尔·古巴舍夫(Anzor Gubashev)辩称无罪。
Despite the court appearances, neither Russian law enforcement agencies nor the court itself presented a coherent picture of the case thus far, including the roles played by the suspects.
尽管两名嫌疑人已经出庭受审，但截至目前，不论是俄罗斯的执法机构还是巴斯曼区法院，都未就这一案件的情况——包括嫌疑人在案件中所扮演的角色——进行清晰说明。
Dadayev and Gubashev, whose arrests were announced Saturday by Russia's top law enforcement official, are believed to be the two directly involved in fatally shooting Nemtsov on Feb. 27.
达达耶夫和古巴舍夫被逮捕的消息是由俄罗斯高层执法官员在周六宣布的，两人据信直接参与了2月27日枪杀涅姆佐夫的行动。
The three other suspects who appeared in court Sunday, accused of being accomplices, were Gubashev's younger brother, Shagid, Khamzad Bakhaev and Tamerlan Eskerkhanov, the official Tass news agency reported. All five were jailed for up to two months.
据俄罗斯官方通讯社塔斯社(Tass)报道，被控协同犯罪的另外三名嫌疑人也出现在了周日的法庭上，其中一个是古巴舍夫的弟弟沙吉德，另外两人分别是卡姆扎德·巴克夫（Khamzad Bakhaev）和塔梅尔兰·艾斯科汉诺夫(Tamerlan Eskerkhanov)。这五人都曾被关押最长达两个月的时间。
The main question many Russians want answered is who ordered the brazen assassination of Nemtsov, 55, a former deputy prime minister turned opposition leader. Since the shooting took place within sight of the Kremlin, among the most heavily guarded sites in Moscow, opposition figures have accused the government of complicity, which it has denied. The Kremlin initially suggested that the killing was the work of foreign spy agencies, but President Vladimir Putin later said it was politically motivated.
究竟是谁一声令下，明目张胆地刺杀了今年55岁、从曾经的副总理变身为反对派领袖的涅姆佐夫？许多俄罗斯人都想知道这个问题的答案。由于枪杀案就发生在有重兵把守的克里姆林宫附近，反对派人物将俄罗斯政府斥为同谋。后者则否认了这一指控。克里姆林宫起初暗示，涅姆佐夫是被外国间谍机构所杀，但弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统后来表示，案件背后的驱动力是政治动机。
Nemtsov was one of the government's most persistent critics and was due to publish a report that he said would reveal the involvement of the Russian military in the war in Ukraine. The Kremlin has called Russians fighting in Ukraine “volunteers.”
涅姆佐夫是俄罗斯政府最为执着的批评者之一，原本计划发布一份据他所说将揭露俄罗斯军方介入乌克兰战争真相的报告。克里姆林宫一直把在乌克兰作战的俄罗斯人称为“志愿者”。
A sixth suspect blew himself up with a hand grenade Saturday night as the police closed in on his apartment in the southern city of Grozny, the capital of the republic of Chechnya, the Interfax news agency reported.
据国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，第六名嫌疑人在警方逼近其藏身的位于南部车臣共和国首府格罗兹尼的公寓之际引爆手榴弹自杀身亡。