Apple is now selling the new iPad Mini, the smaller brother of the pleasing iPad Air, which I reviewed a couple of weeks ago. Somehow, Apple has squeezed all of the Air’s capabilities into the Mini — and by doing that, Apple has made the process of choosing an iPad easy.
苹果(Apple)开始销售新版iPad Mini了。几周前，我评测过惹人喜爱的iPad Air，Mini是它的小兄弟。苹果做到了把Air的所有功能都塞进Mini里，这么做的结果是，苹果让选择iPad产品的过程变得容易了。
Both the Mini and Air have a high-resolution screen that Apple brands Retina, the identical computer processor that will open apps and load web pages noticeably quicker than past iPads, the same front and back cameras and two antennas to pick up weak Wi-Fi signals. The batteries in the devices will easily last 10 hours under intense use, like downloading videos, and several days on lighter use like reading a book.
iPad Mini和Air都配有高分辨率屏幕，这种屏幕被苹果包装成了Retina品牌。而且两款iPad具有相同的电脑处理器，比起以往的iPad型号，这款处理器启动应用、加载网页的速度明显要更快，它们还具有相同的前置和后置摄像头，以及两个天线，用来接收微弱的Wi-Fi信号。在重度使用，比如下载视频时，iPad Mini和Air的电量能持续10小时；而在轻度使用，如阅读书籍时，则可以持续数日。
The only difference is the size. The Mini’s screen is 7.9 inches on the diagonal, compared with 9.7 inches for the iPad Air. It weighs about three-quarters of a pound, a quarter-pound less than the Air.
唯一的区别在于尺寸。Mini的屏幕对角线是7.9英寸（约20厘米），与之相对比，iPad Air的屏幕对角线是9.7英寸（约24.6厘米）。Mini的重量约为四分之三磅（约340克），比Air轻四分之一磅。
The Mini can be held so comfortably in your hand and slipped so easily into a bag or pants pocket, you’ll find yourself carrying it nearly everywhere you go. As in previous versions — and this is true of every color screen tablet — there is considerable screen glare, so you may have problems reading it in bright sunshine. But rest this tablet on your chest in a dark room and you are in a private Cineplex.
你能用手舒适地握住Mini，轻易将它滑入手提包或裤兜里，你会发现，几乎能随身携带它去往任何地方。和之前的版本一样，它的屏幕反光现象很明显，所以在阳光下阅读时可能会有问题，不过所有彩屏的平板电脑都存在类似的问题。不过，如果在昏暗的屋子里，把这个平板电脑放在你的胸前，就像是拥有了一家私人影院。
So how do you choose between these two tablets, which are still the best ones on the market? The Mini is $100 cheaper in all configurations. It starts at $400 but can go as high as $829. (The previous version of the Mini is still being sold, starting at $300.)
这两款产品仍然是市场上最好的平板电脑，那么在两者之间，该如何选择呢？同等配置下，Mini的价格要比Air便宜100美元（约合609元人民币）。它的最低价格是400美元，最高售价则高达829美元。（上一版本的Mini依然在售，最低价格是300美元。）
To decide, ask yourself: What will you use it for? Is it just for fun — reading and watching movies? Then get the Mini. But if that is all you are going to use it for, also consider the Amazon Fire HDX. It has a vivid 7-inch screen, though it is longer and narrower than the Mini. It lacks the huge catalog of apps and the games of the iPads, but it is also cheaper, starting at $244 if you don’t mind seeing ads; $300 if you want to avoid the ads.
做决定时，你得问问自己：你要用它来干什么？是不是只为了娱乐——读读东西、看看电影？那样的话，买Mini吧。但是，你用它的确是为了做这些事，也可以考虑亚马逊(Amazon)的Kindle Fire HDX。它有鲜艳的7寸屏幕，不过比Mini更长更窄。它没有iPad那么多的应用和游戏，可是它也更加便宜，如果你不介意看广告的话，最低价格是244美元；如果你不想看广告，最低价格则是300美元。
But if you think you are going to do any work on your tablet — typing in particular — consider the bigger version.
不过，如果你想在平板电脑上做任何工作——尤其是打字——还是考虑尺寸较大的版本吧。
The Mini is not a product you truly need, like, say, a smartphone. But it is such a fun and useful device, you will quickly become convinced that it is. 
iPad Mini并不是一款你真正需要的产品，像智能手机什么的。然而它的确很有趣也很有用，你肯定会迅速确信，你真的需要它。