CUPERTINO, Calif. — Apple has grown too big for just one iPhone.
加利福尼亚州库比提诺——只发布一款iPhone，未免配不上苹果(Apple)今日的庞大规模。
That is why Apple is releasing two new iPhones this month instead of just one, including a cheaper model aimed at less wealthy countries where new Apple phones have been desired but out of reach because of their price.
正因为如此，苹果本月推出了两款而不是一款新iPhone，其中包括一款廉价版iPhone。后者面向的是不那么富裕的国家，在这些国家，因为价格的原因，人们对新款苹果手机可望而不可即。
Philip W. Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing, said the new phone was “more colorful than anything we’ve made before.”
苹果全球营销高级副总裁菲利普·W·席勒(Philip W. Schiller)表示，这款新手机“比我们之前做过的任何产品都更鲜艳”。
The lower-cost model, the iPhone 5C (the “C” for color) comes in a plastic case and has the same features as the now-outdated iPhone 5. The fancier model, the iPhone 5S, comes in aluminum and includes a faster processor and fingerprint sensor for security, among other features. 
这款廉价版名为iPhone 5C（C代表color[颜色]），采用塑料外壳，功能与现在已显得过时的iPhone 5相同。更阔气的iPhone 5S采用铝制外壳，处理器更快，具有指纹识别安全保障等功能。
At full price without a contract, which is how many overseas carriers make people pay for phones, the iPhone 5C costs $550 — only $100 less than the iPhone 5S. That is far higher than the $300 to $400 range that many analysts expected. 
若不签约全价购机——许多海外运营商就是这样向消费者销售手机的——iPhone 5C的售价是550美元（约合3400元人民币，中国大陆售价为4488元人民币），只比iPhone 5S低100美元（iPhone 5S 16GB版本中国大陆售价为5288元人民币——编注），远远超出了许多分析人士此前预计的300到400美元的范围。
In the United States, the iPhone 5S costs $200 with a contract, and the iPhone 5C costs $100 with a contract.
在美国，iPhone 5S合约机售价为200美元，iPhone 5C合约机售价100美元。
Both iPhones will be available in the United States, Japan and China and other countries on Sept. 20. Apple announced a partnership with NTT Docomo of Japan, but not a highly anticipated partnership with China Mobile, the biggest carrier in China. It will be the first time Apple has been able to release its phones at the same time globally.
两款iPhone都将于9月20日在美国、日本、中国和其他一些国家上市。苹果宣布同日本NTT都科摩(NTT Docomo)，而不是令人高度期待的中国最大运营商中国移动，达成了合作关系。这将是苹果首次全球同步发售手机。
Along with introducing the phones to a full house of about 300 members of the media in its Cupertino headquarters, Apple also scheduled satellite events in Tokyo, Berlin and Beijing, where it rebroadcast the product event for journalists in those countries.
在库比提诺的公司总部，苹果向坐满整间屋子的大约300名媒体记者介绍两款手机。与此同时，苹果还在东京、柏林和北京安排了卫星活动，向那些国家的记者播放产品发布活动。
Investor reaction was muted. Apple’s stock price finished the day down about 2.3 percent.
投资者的反应很平淡。当天，苹果股价以大约2.3%的跌幅报收。
The new iPhones represent a strategy shift for Apple.
新iPhone反映了苹果的战略转移。
For years, Apple has offered multiple flavors of each of its products, in different shapes and sizes and for different prices. It offers many different Mac notebooks, multiple desktop computers, several different iPods and two sizes of iPads.
多年来，苹果一直都会为每款产品提供多种选择，价格不同，对应的款式和尺寸也不同。它推出了许多不同款的Mac笔记本电脑、多款台式电脑和几款不同的iPod，iPad的尺寸也有两种。
Until now, Apple has held off on releasing multiple versions of the iPhone, its best-selling product ever. Why?
iPhone是苹果有史以来最畅销的产品，但苹果直到现在才推出多种版本的iPhone。缘由何在？
Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, recently said that each different iPod model had a reason to exist, like the iPod Mini, a tiny iPod that did not have much storage. The miniature media player turned in surprisingly strong sales, attracting athletes and people who listened to music occasionally. The classic iPod, with more storage, eventually shifted to become a music player for hard-core audio fans who wanted all their albums on one device.
苹果首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)前不久表示，每一款不同的iPod都有其存在的理由。例子之一是iPod Mini，一款没有太大存储空间的小型iPod。这款小小的媒体播放器的销售出人意料地强劲，吸引了运动员和偶尔才听音乐的人。最终，存储空间更大的经典款iPod反倒变成了铁杆音乐迷的专用音乐播放器，这些人希望把自己所有的专辑放在一台设备上。
“The Mini proved that people want something lighter, thinner, smaller,” Mr. Cook said at a technology business conference in May. “My only point is that these products all served a different person, a different type, a different need.”
“Mini证明，人们希望有更轻、更薄、更小的产品，”库克在5月的一次科技企业会议上说，“我只是想说，这些产品都服务于不同的人、不同的类型、不同的需求。”
Clearly, Apple thinks there is a reason for a cheaper version of the iPhone to exist. With its profit growth slowing, and smartphone sales surging in countries like China, India and Russia, the cheaper iPhone is targeted at what analysts call “aspirational consumers” in those countries — the top 10 to 20 percent who are slightly uncomfortable about spending more money on a fancy brand, but might be convinced at the right price.
显然，苹果认为廉价版iPhone有其存在的原因。在利润增速放缓，中国、印度、俄罗斯等国智能手机销量激增的情况下，廉价版iPhone面向的是这些国家前10%到20%的人，即分析人士所谓的“有抱负的消费者”。这些人会对为名牌产品上花更多钱稍感不安，但如果价格合适，则可能会动心。
Apple especially hopes to be big in China, now the largest smartphone market in the world, where the company is being beat by Chinese manufacturers of low-cost smartphones running Google’s Android software system. Yet, sales of Apple products in China were down 4 percent in the second quarter compared to the same period last year.
苹果尤其希望在中国市场上强大起来。在这个业已排名世界第一的智能手机市场上，苹果正在遭受中国廉价智能手机生产商的打压，这些廉价智能手机采用的都是谷歌(Google)的Android软件系统。然而，与去年同期相比，二季度苹果产品的在华销量下降了4%。
Apple was careful to not make the iPhone 5C sound cheap. It emphasized that many key parts were made of a high-quality polycarbonate material, and underneath the plastic is steel reinforcement. And Apple added networking parts that make the phone compatible with global cellular networks.
苹果很小心，不想让iPhone 5C给人留下廉价的感觉。它强调说，iPhone 5C的很多关键部件都是用优质聚碳酸酯材料制成，塑料下面还有钢筋加固。苹果给这款手机添加了网络硬件，因此它可以兼容全球蜂窝网络。
“When you pick up and hold the iPhone 5C for the first time, you’re going to be blown away by the quality of it, and how rich and rigid it feels in your hand,” Mr. Schiller said.
席勒说：“当你第一次把iPhone 5C拿在手中时，它的质量、丰富细节和坚固手感必定会让你惊叹。” 
The more expensive phone, the iPhone 5S, will be the first Apple device to feature a processor called A7, which processes information more quickly than the previous one. It also includes a chip called M7, a processor dedicated to sensors that detect movements, which will enable the iPhone to support smarter health and fitness apps. The iPhone 5S comes in three different metallic colors: silver, gold and dark gray.
价格较高的iPhone 5S将是第一款搭载A7处理器的苹果设备，它处理信息的速度比前代产品更快。iPhone 5S还搭载了一块名为M7的芯片，是专门为运动检测传感器配备的处理器，可以让iPhone运行更聪明的健身应用。iPhone 5S有三种不同的金属色：银色、金色和暗灰色。
The iPhone 5S’s fingerprint scanner, located on the physical button below the screen, is the biggest difference between the new iPhone and the previous one. It is made of a sapphire crystal on the outside, with a steel detection ring and a the fingerprint sensor underneath. An iPhone owner can simply touch the button to bypass the phone’s lock screen, instead of adding a passcode.
iPhone 5S的指纹扫描器位于屏幕下方的实体按键上，这是新iPhone和前代产品最大的差别。它外面的部分是蓝宝石晶体，里面则是一个钢质检测环和一个指纹传感器。iPhone机主触摸这个按钮就可以解除锁屏，不再需要输入解锁密码。
Other new features of the iPhone 5S include improved battery life of 10 hours talk time, or 250 hours on standby. It also has an improved camera.
iPhone 5S的其他新特性包括：延长了电池续航时间，可通话10小时或待机250小时。摄像头质量也有所提升。
Along with the new iPhones, Apple announced that a major upgrade for its mobile software system would be available Sept. 18. The software, iOS 7, introduces thin typography and more vibrant colors. It removes textures that made some apps mimic real-life objects in the previous operating system — the leather in the Calendar app is gone; and the shelves in the iBookstore app are no longer wood-grain.
发布新iPhone的同时，苹果公司宣布，其移动软件系统iOS 7将在9月18日完成重大升级。iOS 7采用了纤细字体和更鲜艳的色彩，抛弃了前代系统中的仿真纹理，这种纹理可以让一些应用模仿现实生活中的对象，所以在iOS 7中，日历应用中的皮革纹理将会消失，iBookstore应用中的书架也不再有木纹。
Some investors have worried that Apple has lost its ability to innovate since the death of the visionary Steven P. Jobs, and the new iPhones’ addition of colors and a fingerprint sensor might not persuade them otherwise. But Laurence Isaac Balter, the chief market strategist for Oracle Investment Research, which has clients that own Apple shares, said he thought the iPhone 5C was just a stopgap for Apple so that it could take in more sales while it worked on more compelling products, like a television and a connected wristwatch.
一些投资者担心，自从富有远见的史蒂芬·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)去世之后，苹果已经丧失了创新能力，新iPhone增加颜色和指纹传感器的做法，可能无法让他们改变这种看法。不过，甲骨文投资研究公司(Oracle Investment Research)的首席市场策略师劳伦斯·艾萨克·巴尔特(Laurence Isaac Balter)说，他认为iPhone 5C只是一个临时性的产品，旨在为苹果增加销售收入，而苹果同时也会研发更加引人瞩目的产品，比如电视和联网手表。甲骨文投资研究公司的一些客户持有苹果公司的股票。
“We need to let Apple go after their market share and then bring in innovation for the next wave,” Mr. Balter said.
“我们应该容许苹果先为它的市场份额努力，然后再为下一波潮流带来创新。”巴尔特说。 
Apple’s showcase was a stark reminder of how fast the tech industry can change. Just seven years ago, before Apple introduced the original iPhone, the company was still a relatively small player.
苹果展示会强烈地提醒我们，高科技产业的变化速度可以有多快。仅在七年前，在苹果推出第一代iPhone之前，该公司还是这个行业中一个相对较小的角色。
It was the tech industry’s also-ran, a company that nearly went bankrupt in the 1990s and had a lot to prove. Even after introducing blockbuster hits like the iPod and the iMac, its premium computers still had a tiny sliver of the PC market. But every iPhone released in the last six years has been so popular that people have camped out in lines just to buy one.
苹果曾是高科技行业的失败者，20世纪90年代几乎破产，很多方面的能力都有待证明。即使在推出了iPod和iMac等热门产品之后，苹果的高端电脑对PC市场而言仍然微不足道。但是，过去六年中，它发布的每一款iPhone都大受欢迎，很多人在店铺外面搭起帐篷，就为了买到一部iPhone。
The addition of a cheaper iPhone raises the question of whether Apple will introduce a third model. The company has reportedly been experimenting with an iPhone with a larger screen, similar to the bigger smartphones offered by its main rival, Samsung Electronics.
苹果此次推出一款价格较低的iPhone，让人好奇它是否会推出第三种机型。据称该公司正在试验一款屏幕尺寸更大的iPhone，类似于其主要竞争对手三星电子(Samsung Electronics)的大屏智能手机。
Milton Pedraza, chief executive of the Luxury Institute, a research firm, encouraged Apple to take that route and market a bigger iPhone as a higher-end model. A big-screen iPhone could be catered to Apple’s customers who are getting older and wealthier, and it would protect the company’s status as a luxury brand.
米尔顿·佩德拉萨(Milton Pedraza)是研究机构奢侈品研究公司(Luxury Institute)的首席执行官，他鼓励苹果走这条路，把大屏iPhone作为更高端的机型来宣传。苹果用户的年龄和财富都在增长，大屏iPhone可以迎合他们的需要，而且可以保护苹果作为奢侈品牌的地位。
“Lots of people need a bigger screen,” Mr. Pedraza said. “Their vision is going, and their fingers are not as dexterous. Duh.”
 “很多人都需要更大的屏幕。 ” 佩德拉萨说，“他们的视力下降了，手指也不像以前那么灵巧。 ”