SEOUL, South Korea — Acer, the Taiwanese computer maker, said Tuesday that its chief executive, J.T. Wang, had resigned, citing an inability to come to grips with a downturn in the PC business.
韩国首尔——台湾电脑制造商宏碁(Acer)周二表示，该公司首席执行官王振堂已经辞职，理由是自己无力应对个人电脑业务的下滑。
The company, which is based in Taipei, said its president, Jim Wong, will take over as chief executive. One of his tasks, Acer said, will be to oversee a 7 percent reduction in the work force, which currently stands at 8,000.
总部位于台北的宏碁说，总裁翁建仁(Jim Wong)将接替首席执行官的职务。宏碁说，翁建仁的任务包括监督公司裁员7%的工作，目前宏碁的员工总数为8000人。
Acer is the fourth-largest PC maker in the world, but it has been hit hard by a decline in sales of desktop computers as more consumers and businesses turn to tablets and other devices. The company said Tuesday that its sales in the most recent quarter were 92.15 billion Taiwan dollars, down 12 percent from a year ago. It posted an after-tax loss of 13.12 billion Taiwan dollars, or $446 million, for the quarter.
宏碁是世界第四大个人电脑制造商，但是由于越来越多的消费者和企业开始依赖平板电脑和其他设备，台式电脑销售下降，这对宏碁造成了严重打击。宏碁周二说，最近一季度的销售额为921.5亿新台币（约合191元人民币），相比去年同期下降了12%。公司本季度录得的税后亏损为131.2亿新台币。
“Acer encountered many complicated and harsh challenges in the past few years. With the consecutive poor financial results, it is time for me to hand over the responsibility to a new leadership team to path the way for a new era,” Mr. Wang said in a statement.
王振堂在一份声明中说，“在过去的几年中，宏碁遇到了许多复杂且严峻的挑战。宏碁的财报数据连续多年低迷，我想现在是时候交出权力和责任，让新的领导团队来带领宏碁开创新未来，走进新时代。”
While some PC makers, like Lenovo of China, have been able to balance a weaker computer market with a growing smartphone business, Acer has not diversified its business successfully.
尽管一些个人电脑制造商，比如中国的联想(Lenovo)，能够凭借日益扩张的智能手机业务平衡个人电脑市场低迷带来的损失，但宏碁未能成功地实现业务的多元化。
Acer said it had set up an advisory committee to aid Mr. Wong on the transition. It will be headed by Stan Shih and George Huang, two of the founders of the company.
宏碁说，公司已经建立了一个咨询委员会，在过渡时期协助翁建仁的工作。委员会将由公司的两位创始人施振荣(Stan Shih)和黄少华(George Huang)负责。
“After making structural adjustments, we will introduce more competitive products within the existing PC, tablet, and smartphone business and stabilize our market share,” Mr. Shih said in a statement. “This will be the basis of our transformation and for developing new business opportunities.”
施振荣在一份声明中说，“对于既有的PC、平板电脑与智慧型手机等业务，在结构性调整之后，将持续推出更具竞争力的产品，稳住既有的市场，作为本业转型以及其他具潜力新事业的发展基础，并持续扩大。”