BEIJING — China and Russia agreed to a major 30-year natural gas deal on Wednesday that would send gas from Siberia by pipeline to China, according to the China National Petroleum Corporation.
北京——中国石油天然气集团公司称，中国和俄罗斯于周三签署了一份重要的天然气合同，合同为期30年，将把西伯利亚的天然气通过管道输到中国。
The announcement caps a decade-long negotiation and helps bring Russia and China closer than they have been in many years. The contract was driven to a conclusion by the presence in Shanghai over the last two days of President Xi Jinping of China and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
合同的签署是长达十年谈判的结果，也让中俄两国的关系达到比许多年来都要近的程度。过去两天中一起出现在上海的中国国家主席习近平和俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)促成了合同的签署。
The notice posted on the C.N.P.C. website said that beginning in 2018, Russia would supply 38 billion cubic meters of natural gas each year to China. China would build the pipeline within its own borders, while Russia would be responsible for the development of the fields and pipeline construction inside Russia, the notice said.
中国石油天然气集团公司网站上的公告称， 从2018年起，俄罗斯将开始向中国供气，输气量逐年增长，最终达到每年380亿立方米。公告称，中国将负责修建本国境内的天然气管道，而俄罗斯则负责开发其国内气田以及管道的铺建工作。
The notice said the main Russian fields that would supply the gas are Irkutsk Kovyktinskoye and Chayandinskoye.
公告称，伊尔库茨克州科维克金气田(Irkutsk Kovyktinskoye)和恰扬金气田(Chayandinskoye)将是提供天然气的主要俄罗斯气源地。
The notice did not mention price, but experts said that hard bargaining by China for a lower price than European countries were paying for Russian natural gas was at the core of the negotiations.
公告没有提到价格，但专家表示，中国竭力杀价，以图得到低于欧洲国家购买俄罗斯天然气所付的价格，那是谈判的核心所在。
The deal was expected to be worth about $400 billion, said James Henderson, senior analyst at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. The document was signed in the presence of Mr. Putin and Mr. Xi, said the Russian news agency Itar-Tass. Mr. Putin told reporters after the signing ceremony that the price of the gas for China was based on the market price of oil, just as it was for European countries.
牛津能源研究所(Oxford Institute for Energy Studies)的高级研究员詹姆斯·亨德森(James Henderson)说，这一合同的预期价格约为4000亿美元（约合2.5万亿元人民币）。俄罗斯国家通讯社俄通社-塔斯社(Itar-Tass)称，有关文件是在普京和习近平的见证下签署的。普京在签署仪式结束后告诉记者，卖给中国的天然气价格以石油的市场价格为基础，正如卖给欧洲国家的价格那样。
"The gas price formula as in our other contracts is pegged to the market price of oil and oil products," Itar-Tass quoted Mr. Putin as saying.
俄通社-塔斯社援引普京的话说，“合同中的天然气价格计算方法，如我们签署的其他合同中的一样，是与市场上的石油以及石油产品的价格挂钩的。”
The deal was the largest ever for the Russian natural gas industry, he said.
他说，这是俄罗斯天然气行业签署的最大一笔合同。
Russia would invest $55 billion in infrastructure for transporting the gas to China, said Alexei B. Miller, the chief executive officer of Gazprom.
俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)首席执行官阿列克谢·B·米勒(Alexey B Miller)说，俄罗斯将为向中国运输天然气的基础设施投资550亿美元。
Mr. Putin has been eager to diversify Russia’s gas sales to Asia and away from the stagnant European markets. At the same time, he was anxious to demonstrate that Russia, in the face of sanctions over the annexation of Crimea, was not dependent on the West.
普京一直热衷于在亚洲为俄罗斯的天然气销售找出路，从而转移出停滞的欧洲市场。同时，他急于表明，在俄罗斯因吞并克里米亚而面临制裁的时候，该国并不依赖于西方。
And Mr. Xi, who has met Mr. Putin seven times since assuming power, was willing to help the Russian leader, said Shi Yinhong, a professor of interational relations at Renmin University in Beijing.
而习近平则愿意帮助这位俄罗斯领导人，位于北京的人民大学国际关系学院的教授时殷弘说。习近平自上台以来已经与普京见过7次面。
High expectations that the deal would be sealed when Mr Xi and Mr. Putin met on Tuesday were dashed when negotiators from China National Petroleum and Gazprom failed to reach an agreement.
周二，习近平与普京举行会谈期间，人们对签署这份合同的热切期望曾一度破灭，因为当时中国石油天然气集团公司的谈判代表和俄罗斯天然气股份工业有限公司的代表没能达成一致。
The political impetus to get the deal done, including Mr. Putin’s upcoming visit to Europe in early June — when he will meet with President Obama and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel — was probably a vital trigger to getting the contract over the finish line, energy experts said.
能源专家表示，需要完成这笔交易的政治动力，包括普京即将在6月份访问欧洲，届时他将于美国总统奥巴马(President Obama )和德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)会面，大概是使这份合同最终得以签署的一个重要因素。
Mr. Xi and Mr. Putin met on the sidelines of a conference of Asian nations. During his address to the gathering, Mr. Xi proposed a new Asian structure for security cooperation based on a regional group that would include Russia and Iran, but exclude the United States.
习近平和普京在一次亚洲国家会议的间隙期间举行了会谈。习近平在这次会议上的发言中提出，要在一个地区组织的基础上构建新的亚洲安全秩序，这个地区组织包括俄罗斯和伊朗，但把美国排除在外。
Mr. Xi’s proposal was another indication that Russia and China, though wary of each other, were interested in working together outside the confines of existing global and regional institutions dominated by the United States.
习近平的提议还意味着，尽管俄罗斯与中国相互保持警惕，但两国都对在以美国为主导的现有国际和地区机构的范围之外展开合作感兴趣。
The final price of the gas stipulated in the document remained a “commercial secret,” Mr. Miller, the chief executive of Gazprom, told the Russian channel TV-Novosti.
俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司主管米勒对俄语电视台俄罗斯新闻社电视台(TV-Novosti)说，合同中规定的最终天然气价格将保留为“商业机密”。
But at the heart of the negotiations was how to bridge the difference between the premium prices Russia charges European countries, and the lower prices that China pays for natural gas from Central Asia, primarily Turkmenistan, said Kenneth S. Courtis, a founding partner of Thames Investment, who was in Shanghai on Tuesday.
谈判的核心问题是如何弥补两个价格之间的差异：一个是俄罗斯向欧洲国家收取的高价，另一个是中国从中亚、主要是土库曼斯坦进口天然气所支付的较低价格，泰晤投资有限公司创始合伙人肯尼思·S·柯蒂斯(Kenneth S. Courtis)说，柯蒂斯周二也在上海。
The price of Russian gas to Europe is based on fluctuations in oil prices, making the price higher than gas that China buys from Central Asia, Mr. Courtis said.
柯蒂斯说，俄罗斯向欧洲出售天然气的价格与石油价格的波动挂钩，所以比中国从中亚进口天然气的价格要高。
Gazprom had indicated that it was not going to bend on the principle of a gas price based on oil prices in the China deal, analysts said. But how to structure that price relationship had appeared to be a major stumbling block.
分析人士称，俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司曾表示，不会在与中国的合同中改变以石油价格为基础的天然气定价原则。但是如何建立这两种价格之间的关系一直似乎是谈判的一个主要障碍。