Russia and China on Thursday vetoed a United Nations Security Council resolution that would have empowered the International Criminal Court to investigate and prosecute war crimes in Syria, defying widespread support for such a move by human rights advocates and many United Nations members, including the United States.
周四，俄罗斯和中国投票否决了联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)的一项决议草案，尽管人权活动人士和美国等许多联合国成员国广泛支持该决议提出的举措，即赋予国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)对叙利亚战争罪行进行调查和起诉的权力。
It was the fourth time that Russia and China used their veto power as permanent Security Council members to block any coercive action by the international body in the Syrian conflict, which began more than three years ago and has claimed at least 150,000 lives.
这是俄罗斯与中国第四次利用自身作为安理会常任理事国的否决权阻止国际组织对叙利亚冲突采取强制措施。叙利亚冲突始于三年多以前，目前已导致至少15万人丧生。
The vote on the resolution, sponsored by France, was broadcast live on the United Nations website. The measure received 13 yes votes in the 15-member council.
该决议草案由法国提出，联合国网站对投票过程进行了现场直播。草案得到了15个安理会成员国中13个国家的支持。
More than 50 members of the General Assembly had urged the Council to approve the measure, and many rights advocates had pressed for a favorable vote, even though they had expected a veto at least by Russia, the Syrian government’s most important backer.
50多个联合国大会(General Assembly)成员国敦促安理会批准这个草案，许多维权人士也强烈呼吁各国投赞成票，虽然他们已经料到至少俄罗斯会投否决票。俄罗斯是叙利亚政府最重要的支持者。
Russia’s ambassador, Vitaly I. Churkin, had announced on Wednesday that Russia would veto the resolution, arguing that it was a “publicity stunt” that would be counterproductive and subvert any diplomatic efforts to settle the conflict. Syria’s government had also publicly opposed the resolution, calling it a one-sided attempt by France and its allies to intervene in Syria’s internal affairs.
周三，俄罗斯驻联合国大使维塔利·I·丘尔金(Vitaly I. Churkin)宣布俄罗斯将否认这个决议草案，声称该决议只是个“宣传噱头”，会产生适得其反的效果，破坏解决冲突的外交努力。叙利亚政府也对该决议表示了公开反对，称之为法国及其盟友为干涉叙利亚内政而采取的单边行动。
China’s position before the vote had not been entirely clear. While China had not been expected to approve the resolution, it could have abstained, which would have signaled less than emphatic solidarity with Russia on the issue. But Wang Min, the deputy permanent representative who represented China on Thursday at the Council, was frank about his country’s objections to the resolution, describing it as an unwarranted action that would violate Syria’s judicial sovereignty and ruin any prospects for a third round of peace talks in Geneva.
投票前，中国的立场并不十分明确。虽然人们并不指望中国赞成这项决议，但它可能会选择弃权，这样做的意味弱于在这个问题上与俄罗斯明确保持一致。然而，周四代表中国列席安理会的常驻联合国副代表王民明确表示中国反对该草案，并称这是一个未经授权的举措，会侵犯叙利亚的司法主权，破坏在日内瓦举行第三轮和谈的前景。
“To forcibly refer the situation of Syria to the I.C.C. is neither conducive to building trust among all parties in Syria or to early resumption of negotiations in Geneva,” he said.
他说，“在当前形势下强行将叙利亚问题提交国际刑事法院，不利于叙利亚有关各方增进互信，无助于日内瓦谈判的尽快重启。”
Syria is not a signatory to the treaty that created the International Criminal Court more than a decade ago, with the goal of holding accountable those who commit war crimes and other atrocities. Under the treaty, however, the Security Council has the power to authorize the court to investigate and prosecute cases in countries that are not signatories.
十多年前，各方签订条约成立国际刑事法院，旨在将那些犯有战争罪及其他暴行的人绳之以法。叙利亚并不是缔约国。但根据该条约，安理会有权授权该法院对非缔约国的案件进行调查，提起诉讼。
Before the vote, Jan Eliasson, the deputy secretary general, urged the Council to take action. “The Security Council has an inescapable responsibility in this regard to ensure justice for victims of unspeakable crimes,” he said.
投票之前，常务副秘书长扬·埃利亚松(Jan Eliasson)呼吁安理会采取行动。他说，“安理会负有不可推卸的责任，必须确保可怕罪行的受害者获得公正对待。”