The Citic Group, one of China’s biggest state-owned conglomerates, said on Wednesday that it had reached a formal deal for what amounts to a backdoor listing in Hong Kong valuing the company at about $36.5 billion.
周三，中国规模领先的国有企业中信集团表示，该公司已经就在香港借壳上市一事达成正式协议，上市估值为大约365亿美元（约合2270亿元人民币）。
The cash-and-stock deal, valuing the company at 227 billion renminbi, calls for Citic to sell nearly all of its operating assets to its Hong Kong-listed unit, Citic Pacific, which invests in steel, iron ore and real estate.
该现金及股票交易要求中信将几乎所有营业资产出售给在香港上市的中信泰富，后者投资钢铁、铁矿石和房地产。
Citic Group was founded in 1979 at the start of China’s modern economic era and has investments that include banking, trust companies, insurance, energy resources and manufacturing. It has been considering a listing in Hong Kong for several years and is ranked No. 172 on the Fortune 500 list of the world’s biggest companies.
中信创立于中国现代经济时代肇始的1979年，投资领域包括银行、信托公司、保险、能源及制造业。该公司在财富500强公司(Fortune 500)中排名172，数年来一直考虑在香港上市。
‘‘For the first time ever, Citic Pacific investors will have access to China’s largest, most prestigious and pioneering conglomerate,’’ Chang Zhenming, the chairman of both Citic and Citic Pacific, said on Wednesday in a news release. ‘‘Citic has always been right at the heart of the process of reform and development in China, and this landmark transaction marks the next stage of the group’s transformation.’’
“很高兴能为我们的股东提供这个极具投资价值的机会，直接参与中国最大综合性企业的未来发展，”中信董事长及中信泰富主席常振明在周三的新闻发布上表示，“多年来，中信一直都站在中国改革开放的前沿，这次交易标志着集团转型进入新的发展阶段。”
Analysts have described the giant listing as a potential harbinger for a new era of overhauls to China’s huge but sometimes sclerotic state-owned corporations.
分析人士称，这一庞大的上市计划可能预示着中国的大型但有时僵化的国有企业的改革进入了新时期。
‘‘We believe that this transaction in the equity market may signal a new way for Hong Kong to catch the wave of China’s next round of state-owned enterprise reform,’’ Liu Li-Gang, the chief economist for greater China at the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, wrote last month in a research note, when Citic’s negotiations were announced.
上个月，中信宣布就此展开谈判时，澳新银行(Australia and New Zealand Banking Group)大中华区首席经济师刘利刚(Li-Gang Liu)在一份研究报告中写道，“我们认为，股票市场的这次交易或许为香港提供了赶上中国下一轮国企改革浪潮的新途径。”
State-owned Chinese companies that are listed in Hong Kong had a combined market value of 9.7 trillion Hong Kong dollars, or $1.25 trillion, at the end of last year. But Mr. Liu calculates that is equal to only about 9 percent of the assets on the books of all Chinese state companies — implying many more state assets could be heading for public listings in Hong Kong. ‘‘This means that there is plenty of room for Hong Kong’s equity market to grow,’’ Mr. Liu wrote.
去年年底，在香港上市的中国国企的总市值达到了9.7万亿港元(约合7.8万亿元人民币)。不过，根据刘利刚的计算，这个总值只相当于所有中国国企账面总资产的9%，意味着还有更多国资企业可能会奔赴香港公开上市。刘利刚写道，“这意味着香港的证券市场还有巨大的增长空间。”
Under the terms of the deal announced on Wednesday, Citic Pacific, a much smaller subsidiary, will issue 177 billion renminbi worth of new shares to Citic at a price of 13.48 Hong Kong dollars apiece — a premium of 6.5 percent to where Citic Pacific’s stock closed the day before the negotiations were announced.
根据周三宣布的交易条款，规模远小于中信的中信集团子公司中信泰富将向母公司发行价值1770亿元人民币的新股，每股股价为13.48港币，比中信泰富在谈判结果公布前一日的收盘价溢价6.5%。
To maintain a minimum public float — ensuring that 25 percent of its shares are listed and not owned by the controlling shareholder — Citic Pacific will issue an additional 4.68 billion new shares to unnamed institutional investors, raising 63 billion Hong Kong dollars to fund the cash portion of its deal.
为保持最低公众持股量，即确保非控股方持有的上市股份比例达到25%，中信泰富将向未列名的机构投资者另发46.8亿新股，以筹集630亿港币支付协议中的现金款。
The 227 billion renminbi price for the deal is a minimum; it could be revised upward by an independent appraiser, whose yet-to-be announced valuation for the assets must be approved by China’s Ministry of Finance, Citic Pacific said in its announcement.
中信泰富在声明中表示，协议中商定的2270亿元人民币收购价只是最低价格；某独立评估机构可能会把价格调高，该评估机构尚未公布的资产评估结果必须得到中国财政部的批准。