LONDON — An existential struggle is taking place in the Arab world today. But is it ours or is it theirs? Before we step up military action in Iraq and Syria, that’s the question that needs answering.
伦敦——眼下，阿拉伯世界正在上演一场事关生死存亡的斗争。但那究竟是我们的斗争，还是他们的斗争？在我们加强在伊拉克和叙利亚的军事行动之前，这是必须回答的问题。
What concerns me most about President Obama’s decision to re-engage in Iraq is that it feels as if it’s being done in response to some deliberately exaggerated fears — fear engendered by YouTube videos of the beheadings of two U.S. journalists — and fear that ISIS, a.k.a., the Islamic State, is coming to a mall near you. How did we start getting so afraid again so fast? Didn’t we build a Department of Homeland Security?
对于奥巴马总统决定重新介入伊拉克事务，我最担心的地方在于，这么做感觉似乎是为了回应某种被故意夸大了的恐惧——由YouTube上两名美国记者遭斩首的视频引发——以及对ISIS（又叫伊斯兰国[Islamic State]）就要出现在家门口的购物中心的恐惧。我们怎么又这么快就开始害怕成这样？我们不是已经设立了国土安全部吗？
I am not dismissing ISIS. Obama is right that ISIS needs to be degraded and destroyed. But when you act out of fear, you don’t think strategically and you glide over essential questions, like why is it that Shiite Iran, which helped trigger this whole Sunni rebellion in Iraq, is scoffing at even coordinating with us, and Turkey and some Arab states are setting limits on their involvement?
我并不是要对ISIS听之任之。奥巴马认为ISIS必须被削弱和摧毁是正确的。然而，出于恐惧而采取行动时，我们不会进行战略思考，还会一笔带过某些核心问题，比如，以什叶派为主的伊朗参与引发了伊拉克的这场逊尼派叛乱，但它为何对与我们进行协调的提法都加以嘲笑？还有，土耳其和一些阿拉伯国家为何对各自的介入程度设限？
When I read that, I think that Nader Mousavizadeh, who co-leads the global consulting firm Macro Advisory Partners, is correct when he says: “When it comes to intervening in the Arab world’s existential struggle, we have to stop and ask ourselves why we have such a challenge getting them to help us save them.”
读到国际咨询公司Macro Advisory Partners的领导人之一纳德·穆萨维扎德(Nader Mousavizadeh)的话时，我颇有同感。他说：“谈到干预阿拉伯世界这场事关生死存亡的斗争时，我们必须停下来问问自己，让他们协助我们拯救他们自己，怎么会如此艰难？”
So before we get in any deeper, let’s ask some radical questions, starting with: What if we did nothing? George Friedman (no relation), the chairman of Stratfor, raised this idea in his recent essay on Stratfor.com, “The Virtue of Subtlety.” He notes that the ISIS uprising was the inevitable Sunni backlash to being brutally stripped of power and resources by the pro-Iranian Shiite governments and militias in Baghdad and Syria. But then he asks:
因此，在越陷越深之前，让我们来问一些基本问题。首先是：假如我们什么都不做，事态会怎样演变？前不久，斯特拉特弗(Stratfor)的董事长乔治·弗里德曼(George Friedman)（与我没有亲戚关系）在Stratfor.com上发表了题为《微妙的好处》(The Virtue of Subtlety)的文章，其中提出了这一观点。他指出，ISIS叛乱是一场不可避免的反抗，因为伊拉克和叙利亚的亲伊朗什叶派政府以及民兵组织，残酷剥夺了逊尼派的权力和资源。不过，他接下来问道：
Is ISIS “really a problem for the United States? The American interest is not stability but the existence of a dynamic balance of power in which all players are effectively paralyzed so that no one who would threaten the United States emerges. ... But the principle of balance of power does not mean that balance must be maintained directly. Turkey, Iran and Saudi Arabia have far more at stake in this than the United States. So long as they believe that the United States will attempt to control the situation, it is perfectly rational for them to back off and watch, or act in the margins, or even hinder the Americans. The United States must turn this from a balance of power between Syria and Iraq to a balance of power among this trio of regional powers. They have far more at stake and, absent the United States, they have no choice but to involve themselves. They cannot stand by and watch a chaos that could spread to them.”
ISIS“真的是美国的问题吗？符合美国利益的，不是稳定，而是存在一种动态的势力均衡，在这种均势中，各方实际上都陷入瘫痪，这样就不会出现能威胁到美国的力量……但均势原理并不意味着必须直接介入维持均衡。这件事对土耳其、伊朗和沙特阿拉伯的利害关系，远比对美国大。只要认为美国会试图控制局势，对这些国家而言，非常合理的做法是撒手观望，或采取最低限度的行动，乃至阻碍美国。美国必须把注意力从叙利亚和伊拉克之间的势力均衡，转移到前述三个地区性大国之间的势力均衡上。此事对它们的利害关系更大，而且如果没有美国，那么除了自己参与进去之外，它们别无选择。它们不能对一场可能会蔓延到自己境内的混乱袖手旁观”。
Therefore, he concludes, the best U.S. strategy rests in us “doing as little as possible and forcing regional powers into the fray, then in maintaining the balance of power in this coalition.” I am not sure, but it’s worth debating.
因此，他的结论是，美国的最佳战略是我们“尽量少采取行动，逼迫地区性大国加入争斗，然后是维持这个联盟中的势力均衡”。我不确定，但这一点值得讨论。
Here’s another question: What’s this war really about?
还有另外一个问题：这场战争真正是为了什么？
“This is a war over the soul of Islam — that is what differentiates this moment from all others,” argues Ahmad Khalidi, a Palestinian scholar associated with St. Antony’s College, Oxford. Here is why: For decades, Saudi Arabia has been the top funder of the mosques and schools throughout the Muslim world that promote the most puritanical version of Islam, known as Salafism, which is hostile to modernity, women and religious pluralism, or even Islamic pluralism.
“这是一场围绕伊斯兰教的灵魂展开的战争——它是这一刻之所以有别于以往的地方，”牛津大学圣安东尼学院(St. Antony's College, Oxford)的巴勒斯坦学者艾哈迈德·哈立迪(Ahmad Khalidi)说。原因是：数十年来，沙特阿拉伯一直是整个穆斯林世界的清真寺和学校的头号资助者。这些清真寺和学校宣扬的是最严苛的伊斯兰教版本，即萨拉菲主义。萨拉菲主义对现代化、女性和宗教多元主义，乃至伊斯兰教多元主义均持反对态度。
Saudi financing for these groups is a byproduct of the ruling bargain there between the al-Saud family and its Salafist religious establishment, known as the Wahhabis. The al-Sauds get to rule and live how they like behind walls, and the Wahhabis get to propagate Salafist Islam both inside Saudi Arabia and across the Muslim world, using Saudi oil wealth. Saudi Arabia is, in effect, helping to fund both the war against ISIS and the Islamist ideology that creates ISIS members (some 1,000 Saudis are believed to be fighting with jihadist groups in Syria), through Salafist mosques in Europe, Pakistan, Central Asia and the Arab world.
沙特对这些团体的资助，是沙特王室与萨拉菲派宗教权贵阶层，即瓦哈比派之间达成的统治协议的副产品。王室家族在高墙后随心所欲地进行统治和生活，瓦哈比则利用沙特阿拉伯的石油财富，在沙特阿拉伯国内和整个穆斯林世界宣传萨拉菲派伊斯兰教。实际上，通过欧洲、巴基斯坦、中亚和阿拉伯世界的萨拉菲派清真寺，沙特阿拉伯既在协助为针对ISIS的作战提供资金，又在从旁资助那种培养出ISIS成员（据信，大约有1000名沙特阿拉伯人正在与叙利亚的圣战组织并肩作战）的伊斯兰教意识形态。
This game has reached its limit. First, because ISIS presents a challenge to Saudi Arabia. ISIS says it is the “caliphate,” the center of Islam. Saudi Arabia believes it is the center. And, second, ISIS is threatening Muslims everywhere. Khalidi told me of a Muslim woman friend in London who says she’s afraid to go out with her head scarf on for fear that people will believe she is with ISIS — just for dressing as a Muslim. Saudi Arabia cannot continue fighting ISIS and feeding the ideology that nurtures ISIS. It will hurt more and more Muslims.
这种游戏已经玩到了尽头。首要原因是，ISIS构成了对沙特阿拉伯的挑战。ISIS自称“哈里发国”，代表伊斯兰世界的中心。可是沙特阿拉伯相信自己才是中心。其次，ISIS正威胁到世界各地的穆斯林。哈立迪告诉我，他有一名身处伦敦的女性穆斯林友人，说自己不敢戴着头巾出门，因为害怕别人认为她跟ISIS有关系——仅仅因为身着穆斯林服饰。沙特阿拉伯不能继续一边抗击ISIS，一边助长培育了ISIS的意识形态。这样只会伤害越来越多的穆斯林。