HONG KONG — The Chinese Navy will hold joint exercises with Russia in the Mediterranean in May, China’s Defense Ministry said Thursday, a further indication of the closer ties between the two countries and of the navy’s increasing ambitions.
香港——中国国防部周四表示，中国海军将于5月在地中海与俄罗斯举行联合军事演习，这进一步表明两国之间的关系变得愈加密切，中国海军的野心也在日益增加。
Nine ships from the two countries will participate in the drills, including Chinese vessels now on United Nations antipiracy patrols in waters off the Horn of Africa, the Defense Ministry spokesman, Geng Yansheng, said at a monthly news briefing in Beijing. The drills will focus on navigation safety, at-sea replenishment, escort missions and live-fire exercises, he said.
国防部发言人耿雁生在北京的例行记者会上称，届时将有来自两个国家的九艘舰艇参加此次军演，其中包括目前在非洲之角附近水域参加联合国(United Nations)反海盗巡逻的中国舰艇。他说，演习的重点是航行安全、海上补给、护航行动和实兵演练。
“The aim is to deepen both countries’ friendly and practical cooperation and increase our navies’ ability to jointly deal with maritime security threats,” Mr. Geng said. “These exercises are not aimed at any third party and have nothing to do with the regional situation.”
“目的是深化中俄两国友好务实合作，增强两国海军共同应对海上安全威胁的能力，”耿雁生说。“这样一次联合军演不针对第三方，与地区局势无关。”
One of China’s main military goals is to develop a navy that goes beyond coastal waters and can travel the world’s oceans, and while military analysts said the drills in the Mediterranean appeared to be modest, they would be the farthest from home the Chinese Navy has done.
中国的主要军事目标之一，就是发展一个能航行至沿海水域之外，并在全球的海洋上航行的海军部队，而军事分析人士称，地中海演习的规模似乎比较有限，这将是中国海军离本土最远的一次演习。
“The Chinese fleet has never made any exercises in the Mediterranean, and moreover, this is with Russia,” said Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.
位于北京的中国人民大学国际关系学院教授时殷弘说，“中国舰队从未在地中海进行过任何演习，而且这次是与俄罗斯联合开展。”
“The two countries want to show they have escalated their strategic partnership.”
“两国想显示，他们的战略伙伴关系已经升级。”
China’s announcement came as the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, was visiting Washington. He and President Obama declared that Japan and the United States would increase their military cooperation, a move that China criticized Wednesday.
中国发表声明之际，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)正在访问华盛顿。他和奥巴马总统宣布，日本和美国将加强军事合作。中国周三对此提出了批评。
With Russia’s isolation from the West over the crisis in Ukraine, and with China’s concern about a more intimate American-Japanese alliance, it suits President Xi Jinping of China and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to advertise their friendship, Professor Shi said.
时殷弘说，鉴于俄罗斯因为乌克兰危机与西方关系疏远，而中国又对更加密切的美日联盟感到担忧，中国国家主席习近平和俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)强调两国关系的做法，符合他们各自的利益。
“Russia wants to show the United States it is not isolated and can launch exercises near Eastern Europe,” he said. “And as a result of Abe’s visit to the United States and the upgraded Japan-American military relationship, Xi wants to show the United States he has good relations with Russia.”
“俄罗斯想向美国表明，它并没有被孤立，而且还能在东欧附近开展演习，”他说。“由于安倍晋三对美国进行了访问，美日军事关系也在加强，习近平想向美国表明，他与俄罗斯的关系很好。”
The fact that the Chinese Navy is venturing so far from home for military exercises shows that it has a new confidence in its abilities, said James Hardy, the Asia-Pacific editor of IHS Jane’s Defense Weekly.
《简氏防务周刊》(IHS Jane's Defence Weekly)亚太区编辑詹姆斯·哈迪(James Hardy)说，中国海军愿意冒险在离本土如此遥远的地方进行军事演习的事实表明，它对自己的能力有了新的信心。
“The geopolitical significance of its exercising alongside Russia will not be lost on the U.S. and NATO,” he said, “although it would be churlish of anyone in the West to complain about it, given the number of joint drills the U.S. and its allies conduct in China’s near seas.”
“与俄罗斯一道开展联合军演，这一举动的地缘政治影响美国和北约不会意识不到，”他说，“但西方人士对此有所抱怨会显得很无礼，因为美国及其盟友在中国附近海域举行过很多次联合军演。”
The Chinese Navy has operated in the Mediterranean before, most notably when China’s warships helped rescue more than 30,000 Chinese workers stranded in Libya after the downfall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in 2011. It also sent a frigate to accompany the removal of Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile in 2013 and 2014.
中国海军过去就曾在地中海开展过行动，最著名的就是穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)于2011年倒台后，中国军舰帮助营救3万多名被困在利比亚的中国工人。中国还在2013年及2014年派遣护卫舰，护送过移除叙利亚化学武器储备的船只。
“So this isn’t entirely new territory,” Mr. Hardy said.
哈迪表示，“所以这并不完全是新鲜事。”
China’s contribution to the exercises will include two frigates and a supply ship used in the evacuation of Chinese citizens and others from Yemen in April, Mr. Geng said. Those ships were dispatched from the antipiracy patrols to carry out the evacuation.
耿雁生称，中国将会派两艘护卫舰和一艘补给舰参与军演，这些军舰曾在今年4月参与了从也门撤离中国公民及其他人员的行动。中国派遣这些舰只撤侨时，它们正在执行反海盗巡逻。
The exercises themselves are probably not as important as the message, said Peter Dutton, a professor of strategic studies at the United States Naval War College in Newport, R.I.
位于罗德岛州纽波特的美国海军战争学院(United States Naval War College)战略研究教授彼得·达顿(Peter Dutton)表示，军演本身可能没有军演传达的信息重要。
“It suggests Russia and China are sending a political signal to the U.S. and Europe that the continental powers are standing together to support each other’s expanding interests in the face of maritime opposition,” he said.
他表示，“这说明俄罗斯和中国向美国及欧洲发出了一个政治信号，即面对海上敌对势力，这两个大陆强国将联合起来，支持彼此不断扩张的利益。”
The Chinese and Russian Navies have exercised together since 2012 in waters off Russia’s eastern seaboard.
中俄海军从2012年开始，在俄罗斯东部沿海水域一起举行演习。