BEIRUT — The images of recent days have an eerie familiarity, as if the horrors of the past decade were being played back: masked gunmen recapturing the Iraqi cities of Falluja and Ramadi, where so many American soldiers died fighting them. Car bombs exploding amid the elegance of downtown Beirut. The charnel house of Syria’s worsening civil war.
贝鲁特——最近几天的形势让人莫名其妙地似曾相识，好像过去10年的恐怖景象正在重演：戴着面具的枪手夺回了伊拉克的费卢杰和拉马迪城，那里曾有许多美国士兵在和他们作战时丧生；汽车炸弹爆炸打破了贝鲁特市区的平静优雅；叙利亚愈演愈烈的内战将那里变成了死亡之地。
But for all its echoes, the bloodshed that has engulfed Iraq, Lebanon and Syria in the past two weeks exposes something new and destabilizing: the emergence of a post-American Middle East in which no broker has the power, or the will, to contain the region’s sectarian hatreds.
除了所有这些熟悉的画面，过去两个星期席卷伊拉克、黎巴嫩和叙利亚的流血冲突暴露出了一种造成不稳定的新形势：在美国势力撤离后的中东，没有哪个调停者有足够力量或意愿，来遏制该地区的宗派仇恨。
Amid this vacuum, fanatical Islamists have flourished in both Iraq and Syria under the banner of Al Qaeda, as the two countries’ conflicts amplify each other and foster ever-deeper radicalism. Behind much of it is the bitter rivalry of two great oil powers, Iran and Saudi Arabia, whose rulers — claiming to represent Shiite and Sunni Islam, respectively — cynically deploy a sectarian agenda that makes almost any sort of accommodation a heresy.
在这种真空之中，狂热的伊斯兰派举着基地组织(Al Qaeda)的旗号，在伊拉克和叙利亚肆意发展，与此同时，两国内部的冲突助长着彼此声势，催生了更加顽固的激进势力。而在这背后，很大程度上是两个石油大国伊朗和沙特阿拉伯之间的斗争。两方声称自己分别代表着伊斯兰教的什叶派和逊尼派，两国统治者都自私地采取了加剧宗派对立的策略，使得任何妥协都像是异端邪说。
“I think we are witnessing a turning point, and it could be one of the worst in all our history,” said Elias Khoury, a Lebanese novelist and critic who lived through his own country’s 15-year civil war. “The West is not there, and we are in the hands of two regional powers, the Saudis and Iranians, each of which is fanatical in its own way. I don’t see how they can reach any entente, any rational solution.”
“我认为我们正经历一个转折点，它可能是有史以来最糟糕的转折之一，”黎巴嫩小说家和评论家、亲历该国15年内战的埃利亚斯·库里(Elias Khoury)说。“这里没有了西方势力，我们现在处于两个地区大国沙特和伊朗的掌控中，两国都很狂热，只是方式不同。我不知道它们如何才能达成和解，如何才能取得任何理智的解决方案。”
The drumbeat of violence in recent weeks threatens to bring back the worst of the Iraqi civil war that the United States touched off with an invasion and then spent billions of dollars and thousands of soldiers’ lives to overcome.
最近几周剧烈的暴力事件有让伊拉克内战中最糟糕的形势重演的危险——美国的入侵引发了这场内战，随后又花费数十亿美元，牺牲数千名士兵的生命来试图挽回战争造成的恶果。
With the possible withdrawal of American forces in Afghanistan looming later this year, many fear that an insurgency will unravel that country, too, leaving another American nation-building effort in ashes.
美国很可能会在今年晚些时候从阿富汗撤军，随着这种形势逼近，很多人担心叛乱也将吞噬阿富汗，使美国另一次构建国家的努力化作泡影。
The Obama administration defends its record of engagement in the region, pointing to its efforts to resolve the Iranian nuclear crisis and the Palestinian dispute, but acknowledges that there are limits. “It’s not in America’s interests to have troops in the middle of every conflict in the Middle East, or to be permanently involved in open-ended wars in the Middle East,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, a White House deputy national security adviser, said in an email on Saturday.
奥巴马政府为其在该地区的干预行动进行了辩护，提到了政府为化解伊朗核危机和和巴勒斯坦争端做出的努力，但同时也承认美国发挥作用存在着限制。“派兵去干预中东地区的每一场冲突，或者永久性地参与到中东无止境的战争中，不符合美国的利益，”白宫副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)周六通过电子邮件表示。
For the first time since the American troop withdrawal of 2011, fighters from a Qaeda affiliate have recaptured Iraqi territory. In the past few days they have seized parts of the two biggest cities in Anbar Province, where the government, which the fighters revile as a tool of Shiite Iran, struggles to maintain a semblance of authority.
自美军于2011年撤军后，基地组织附属团体的武装人员第一次重新夺取了伊拉克的领土。过去几天，他们占领了安巴尔省两座最大城市的部分地区，该省政府艰难地维持着表面上的控制权。基地组织武装人员抨击省政府是信奉什叶派的伊朗手中的傀儡。
Lebanon has seen two deadly car bombs, including one that killed a senior political figure and American ally.
在黎巴嫩也已发生了两起造成人员死亡的汽车爆炸，其中一起造成一名与美国关系密切的高级政治人物丧生。
In Syria, the tempo of violence has increased, with hundreds of civilians killed by bombs dropped indiscriminately on houses and markets.
而在叙利亚，暴力袭击变得更加频繁，炸弹被不加区分地投向集市和房屋，造成数以千计的平民死伤。
Linking all this mayhem is an increasingly naked appeal to the atavistic loyalties of clan and sect. Foreign powers’ imposing agendas on the region, and the police-state tactics of Arab despots, had never allowed communities to work out their long-simmering enmities. But these divides, largely benign during times of peace, have grown steadily more toxic since the Iranian revolution of 1979. The events of recent years have accelerated the trend, as foreign invasions and the recent round of Arab uprisings left the state weak, borders blurred, and people resorting to older loyalties for safety.
而造成这一整片混乱局面的共同因素，在于忠于部族或宗派的原始冲动越来越明显。外国势力将自己的政治意图强加给这个地区，而阿拉伯国家的独裁者也奉行着警察国家的策略，因而这里的不同群体从来没有机会化解长期以来不断酝酿的仇恨。但是这些在和平时期很大程度上属于良性的分歧，自1979年伊朗革命爆发以来，其破坏性就一直在日益恶化。近年来发生的事件又加快了这一趋势——外国入侵和阿拉伯世界最近的一波革命削弱了政府的力量，模糊了国家边界，而民众也开始转向形式更为古老的忠诚来寻求安全。
Arab leaders are moving more aggressively to fill the vacuum left by the United States and other Western powers as they line up by sect and perceived interest. The Saudi government’s pledge last week of $3 billion to the Lebanese Army is a strikingly bold bid to reassert influence in a country where Iran has long played a dominant proxy role through Hezbollah, the Shiite movement it finances and arms.
阿拉伯领导人开始按照宗派和其着眼的利益划分阵营，更积极地填补美国和其他西方国家离开后留下的权力真空。上周，沙特政府承诺向黎巴嫩军方提供30亿美元（约合180亿元人民币），长期以来，伊朗一直通过为什叶派运动真主党提供资金和武器，在该国扮演着主导性的代理角色，沙特此举因而显得极为大胆。
That Saudi pledge came just after the assassination of Mohamad B. Chatah, a prominent political figure allied with the Saudis, in a downtown car bombing that is widely believed to have been the work of the Syrian government or its Iranian or Lebanese allies, who are all fighting on the same side in the civil war.
沙特是在著名政治人物穆罕默德·B·恰塔(Mohamad B. Chatah)被刺杀不久后做出上述承诺的。和沙特政府关系密切的恰塔死于一起发生在市区的汽车爆炸案，人们普遍认为爆炸是叙利亚政府或其伊朗、黎巴嫩盟友所为，它们在内战中均属于同一阵营。
Iran and Saudi Arabia have increased their efforts to arm and recruit fighters in the civil war in Syria, which top officials in both countries portray as an existential struggle. Sunni Muslims from Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia and elsewhere have joined the rebels, many fighting alongside affiliates of Al Qaeda. And Shiites from Bahrain, Lebanon, Yemen and even Africa are fighting with pro-government militias, fearing that a defeat for Bashar al-Assad, Syria’s president, would endanger their Shiite brethren everywhere.
伊朗和沙特均加大力度武装和招募人员参与到叙利亚内战之中，两国的高级官员将这描述为一场事关生死存亡的斗争。来自埃及、利比亚、突尼斯、沙特阿拉伯和其他国家的逊尼派穆斯林加入了反叛武装，其中许多人都是和基地组织的分支共同战斗的。而来自巴林、黎巴嫩、也门，甚至是非洲的什叶派都在和亲政府民兵组织共同战斗，他们担心若叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)被打败，其他各地的什叶派教友也会陷入危险。
For all the attention paid to Syria over the past three years, Iraq’s slow disintegration also offers a vivid glimpse of the region’s bloody sectarian dynamic. In March 2012, Anthony Blinken, who is now President Obama’s deputy national security adviser, gave a speech echoing the White House’s rosy view of Iraq’s prospects after the withdrawal of American forces.
尽管在过去三年，人们一直关注叙利亚，但伊拉克的缓慢瓦解也从一个角度直观地呈现了该地区的血腥宗派纷争。2012年3月，现任奥巴马总统副国家安全顾问的安东尼·布林肯(Anthony Blinken)发表演讲，重述白宫对美国撤军后伊拉克形势的乐观看法。
Iraq, Mr. Blinken said, was “less violent, more democratic and more prosperous” than “at any time in recent history.”
布林肯说，伊拉克“比近年历史上任何时候”的“暴力都要少，并且更民主、更繁荣”。
But the Iraqi prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, was already pursuing an aggressive campaign against Sunni political figures that infuriated Iraq’s Sunni minority. Those sectarian policies and the absence of American ground and air forces gave Al Qaeda in Iraq, a local Sunni insurgency that had become a spent force, a golden opportunity to rebuild its reputation as a champion of the Sunnis both in Iraq and in neighboring Syria. Violence in Iraq grew steadily over the following year.
但是，伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)已经开始了一项打击逊尼派政治人物的激进运动，激怒了伊拉克少数派逊尼派。这些引发宗派纷争的政策以及美国地面及空中军队的缺位，都给伊拉克的基地组织——一个本已成强弩之末的地区性逊尼派叛乱组织——提供了一个绝佳机会，以重建其在伊拉克和邻国叙利亚作为逊尼派斗士的声望。接下来一年，伊拉克的暴力事件持续增长。
The worsening violence in Iraq and Syria has spread into Lebanon, where a local Qaeda affiliate conducted a suicide bombing of the Iranian Embassy in Beirut in November, in an attack meant as revenge for Iran’s support of Mr. Assad.
伊拉克和叙利亚不断加剧的暴力还蔓延到了黎巴嫩，11月，基地组织在当地的分支实施了一场针对伊朗驻黎巴嫩大使馆的自杀式炸弹袭击，意在报复伊朗对阿萨德的支持。
More bombings followed, including one in a Hezbollah stronghold on Thursday, one day after the authorities announced the arrest of a senior Saudi-born Qaeda leader.
随后更多炸弹袭击接踵而至，其中包括周四在一个真主党据点发生的爆炸，此前一天官方宣布逮捕了一名出生在沙特的基地组织高级领导人。
“All these countries are suffering the consequences of a state that’s no longer sovereign,” said Paul Salem, vice president of the Middle East Institute in Washington. “On the sectarian question, much depends on the Saudi-Iranian rivalry. Will these two powers accommodate each other or continue to wage proxy war?”
华盛顿的中东研究所(Middle East Institute)副所长保罗·萨利姆(Paul Salem)说，“这些国家都在承受着失去主权所造成的后果。而宗派问题，则很大程度上取决于沙特和伊朗之间的对抗。这两个大国是会彼此妥协，还是将继续发动代理人战争？”
For the fighters on the ground, that question comes far too late. Amjad al-Ahmed, a Shiite fighter with a pro-government militia, said by phone from the Syrian city of Homs, “There is no such thing as coexistence between us and the Sunnis because they are killing my people here and in Lebanon.”
对于在第一线战斗的武装人员来说，这问题问得太迟了。来自亲政府民兵组织的什叶派士兵阿姆贾德·艾哈迈德(Amjad al-Ahmed)在叙利亚霍姆斯接受电话采访时说，“在我们和逊尼派之间没有所谓的共存，因为他们正在这里还有黎巴嫩屠杀我们的人。”