HONG KONG — Citic Resources, a Chinese state-owned commodities trader, said on Wednesday that it had been unable to locate more than 100,000 tons of alumina at a port in northeast China that is the focus of a commodities fraud investigation.
香港——中国国有大宗商品交易商中信资源控股有限公司周三称，该公司存放在一个中国东北部港口的10万多吨氧化铝下落不明。这些货物目前是一桩大宗商品欺诈调查的焦点。
The company said it had secured a court order to sequester, or secure, about 223,000 metric tons, or 253,000 tons, of alumina, also called aluminum oxide, and about 7,500 metric tons of copper to which it has legal title at the port of Qingdao. However, it has not been able to locate more than half of its alumina, some 123,000 metric tons. The material is worth about $43 million, according to Reuters.
中信资源说，该公司取得了一项查封令，其对象是该公司在青岛港所拥有的约25.3万吨氧化铝，以及约7500吨铜。然而，公司超过一半的氧化铝——约12.3万吨——下落不明。根据路透社(Reuters)的数据，这些金属价值约4300万美元。
The announcement by Citic Resources, which also produces oil and coal and is a unit of the state-owned conglomerate Citic Group, is likely to raise further concerns about how companies in China use — and potentially abuse — imported commodities such as copper, aluminum and iron ore to obtain short-term financing. The Chinese authorities are investigating whether one such importer in Qingdao, Dezheng Resources, acted with its subsidiaries to fraudulently obtain loans by pledging and re-pledging the same stockpiles of metals as collateral to multiple banks.
中信资源还生产石油和煤炭，是国有联合企业中信集团的子公司。中信资源的公告可能会引发更多担忧，即中国企业如何在使用——甚至滥用——铜、铝和铁矿石等进口大宗商品获得短期融资。中国当局正在调查一家此类进口商——青岛的德正资源控股有限公司——是否通过向多家银行反复质押同一批金属，与子公司联手进行骗贷。
Several large banks, including Citigroup and Standard Chartered, are investigating whether they have exposure to the potential fraud.
包括花旗集团(Citigroup)和渣打银行(Standard)在内的多家大型银行正在调查自身是否受到了上述欺诈行为的影响。
On Wednesday, Caixin, an influential business magazine in China, reported that the China Banking Regulatory Commission has been investigating banks’ lending to Dezheng and had reached a preliminary finding that the company and its subsidiaries had borrowed a total of 14.8 billion renminbi, or $2.4 billion.
周三，颇具影响力的中国商业媒体财新报道说，中国银监会在调查银行对德正资源的融资，调查的初步结果是，该公司及其子公司共贷款人民币148亿元，即24亿美元。
Those loans included 4 billion renminbi from the Export-Import Bank of China, a state-owned policy lender, as well as 2.1 billion renminbi from the Bank of China, according to the report.
根据财新的报道，这其中包括来自国有政策性银行中国进出口银行的40亿元，以及来自中国银行的21亿元贷款。
In its statement on Wednesday, Citic Resources said it would “conduct its own investigation to ascertain why the court has been unable to enforce its sequestration order in respect of all of the group’s alumina, and the group will review the steps available to it, including the commencement of legal proceedings if necessary.”
中信资源在周三发布的声明中说，“本集团将自行调查以查明法院为何未能就本集团所有的氧化铝执行查封令，并将审视其可采取的行动，包括如果需要展开法律诉讼。”
Trading in shares of Citic Resources was mixed, with the stock up just over 1 percent late Wednesday morning in Hong Kong.
中信资源的股票交易涨跌互现，周三接近中午时分，其股票在香港上涨了1%多一点。