HONOLULU — After months of crisis diplomacy over the Middle East and Ukraine, Secretary of State John Kerry said on Wednesday that President Obama had asked him to redouble his diplomatic efforts in Asia and the Pacific through the remainder of his administration.
檀香山——在中东和乌克兰进行了几个月的危机外交之后，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周三表示，奥巴马总统要求在本届政府余下的任期里，加倍其在亚洲和太平洋地区的外交努力。
“As secretary of state, my job isn’t just to respond to crises,” Mr. Kerry said. “It’s also about defining and seizing the long-term opportunities for the United States.”
“作为国务卿，我的工作不仅是应对危机，”克里说。“我的工作也有关明确和掌握美国长期机会。”
Since 2009, the Obama administration has emphasized that it is in the process of rebalancing American foreign policy to give more emphasis to Asia.
自2009年以来，奥巴马政府一直强调，政府处在重新平衡美国外交政策的过程之中，以加强对亚洲的重视。
But that theme often seems to have taken a back seat, given crises in Egypt, Gaza, Syria and Iraq, as well as Mr. Kerry’s frustrated effort to pursue an Israeli-Palestinian peace treaty and the possibility of direct Russian intervention in Ukraine.
但由于埃及、加沙、叙利亚和伊拉克等地的危机，以及克里寻求以色列-巴勒斯坦和平条约的令人沮丧的努力，再加上俄罗斯直接干预乌克兰的可能性，美国外交的上述主旋律似乎已经退居二位。
Speaking at the East-West Center here in what the State Department billed as an important address on Asia policy, Mr. Kerry outlined an ambitious policy agenda for a region that is of increasing economic importance to the United States.
在这里的东西方中心(East-West Center)，克里做了一个被国务院标榜为有关亚洲政策的重要讲话，他在讲话中描述了美国在这个地区的雄心勃勃的外交纲领，这个地区对美国的经济重要性日益增加。
“We are in this for the long haul, cleareyed about the challenges ahead,” Mr. Kerry said.
克里说，“我们在这里做好了长远准备，我们对未来的挑战十分清楚。”
The United States’ long-term objectives for the Asia and Pacific region, he said, included encouraging economic growth to generate jobs for a young population and developing clean energy to combat the effects of climate change.
他说，美国在亚洲和太平洋地区的长期目标包括，鼓励经济增长以为一个年轻人口创造就业机会，发展清洁能源以应对气候变化带来的影响。
Among other key goals, Mr. Kerry cited promoting regional cooperation, defusing tensions in the South China Sea, standing up for human rights and “empowering people.”
克里提到了促进区域合作、缓和南海紧张局面、维护人权，以及“让人民掌握自己的命运”等其他主要目标。
Mr. Kerry delivered the speech at the end of a round-the-world trip that included visits to Myanmar, Australia and the Solomon Islands. In his previous trip abroad, Mr. Kerry made a two-day visit to India.
克里发表这个讲话是在一次环绕世界的旅行结束的时候，他的行程包括访问缅甸、澳大利亚和所罗门群岛。他上次出国旅行是对印度的一个为期两天的访问。
Those trips illustrated some of the challenges Mr. Kerry would face even if he were to devote all of his energies to the Asian and Pacific region.
这些出访显示了克里将会面临的许多挑战，即使假设他能够把自己的全部精力投入到亚洲和太平洋地区。
In Myanmar, Mr. Kerry met with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel laureate and opposition leader. Mr. Kerry noted that “she is now free to speak her mind as a member of Parliament.”
在缅甸，克里见了昂山素季，这位诺贝尔奖获得者和反对党领袖。克里指出，“她现在能自由地以国会议员的身份讲心里话。”
But when Mr. Kerry met with her on Sunday, she stressed her concerns about the prospects for continued political reform in Myanmar, a nation that is still dominated by its former military rulers.
但是，当克里在周日与她见面时，她对缅甸继续进行政治改革的前景表示了强烈担忧，这个国家仍在其过去的军事统治者主导之下。
“The United States is going to do everything we can to help reformers” in Myanmar, Mr. Kerry said in his speech on Wednesday, “especially by supporting nationwide elections next year.”
“美国将会尽我们的所能来帮助(缅甸的)改革者，”克里在他周三的讲话中说。“尤其是通过支持明年举行的全国大选。”
During a visit to the Solomon Islands earlier this week, Mr. Kerry saw the erosion and damage caused by a major storm.
本周早些时候访问所罗门群岛时，克里看到了一场大风暴造成的侵蚀和伤害。
“The Pacific islands across the entire Pacific are especially vulnerable to climate change,” Mr. Kerry said, adding that the United States and China have a special role to play in reducing emissions.
“太平洋中所有的太平洋岛屿都特别易受气候变化的影响，”克里说，并补充表示，美国和中国在减排上起着特殊的作用。
In New Delhi two weeks ago, Mr. Kerry held the Obama administration’s first high-level meeting with India’s new prime minister, Narendra Modi, and sought to strengthen economic and security ties.
两周前在新德里，克里与纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)会面，这是奥巴马政府与印度新总理的首次高级会谈，双方就寻求加强经济和安全关系进行了探讨。
But to the United States’ frustration, Indian officials declined to withdraw objections to a global trade accord unless a parallel understanding was reached that allowed the Indian government to subsidize and stockpile grains.
但让美国不满的是，印度官员拒绝撤回对一个全球性贸易协定的反对，除非能达成相应的理解，允许印度政府补贴和储存谷物。