China and Russia will soon hold joint naval exercises near islands disputed by Beijing and Tokyo in the East China Sea, the Jinghua Times newspaper reported on Thursday, quoting China’s Ministry of National Defense.
周四，《京华时报》援引中国国防部消息报道称，中国和俄国很快将在东海举行联合军事演习，演习地点在中日两国的争端岛屿附近。
The Beijing-based newspaper did not say how close the exercises would be to the islands, called the Diaoyu by China and the Senkaku by Japan, stating only that they would be to the “northwest.” It gave a time frame as “the last 10 days of May.”
这家北京报纸没有说明此次军演离钓鱼岛（日本称尖阁诸岛）有多近，只是说军演将在其“西北”海域进行，时间则是“5月下旬”。
On his just-concluded trip to Asia, President Obama said the United States recognized Japan’s administration of the islands, a statement the newspaper said had angered China. It quoted a military analyst as saying it was no coincidence that the Ministry of National Defense mentioned the planned exercises “the day after Obama left Asia.”
在刚刚结束的亚洲访问期间，奥巴马总统曾表示，美国认可日本对这些岛屿的行政权。《京华时报》称这一言论引起了中国的不满。它引用一名军事分析人士的话说，国防部“恰好在奥巴马访问结束后的第一天”宣布联合军演的计划，此事绝非偶然。
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is due in China on May 20 to take part in a meeting in Shanghai of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, a multinational forum, the news website tsrus.cn reported.
据新闻网站透视俄罗斯(tsrus.cn)报道，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)将于5月20日访华，前往上海参加一个多国论坛，亚洲相互协作与信任措施会议(Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia)。
Mr. Putin will then travel to Beijing for a state visit, which will conclude on May 21, according to the Chinese state media. A major item on his agenda is a long-awaited, and potentially large, energy-for-investment deal with China.
随后，普京将前往北京，对中国进行国事访问；据中国国家媒体报道，访问将于5月21日结束。他此行的一个重要议题是与中国签订一项各方期盼已久的能源换投资协议，协议规模有可能非常大。
Jinghua Times reported that the exercises would involve more than 20 ships — including guided-missile cruisers, guided-missile destroyers and guided-missile escort vessels, as well as “conventional submarines” — and were part of a larger series of joint military exercises between China and Russia. Separately, CCTV, the state broadcaster, said that senior Russian military officials were in China to finalize details of the exercises.
《京华时报》报道称，前述军演将有20多艘舰艇参加，包括导弹巡洋舰、导弹驱逐舰、导弹护卫舰以及“常规潜艇”，并且是一个规模更大的中俄联合军演的部分内容。中国国家电视台CCTV则表示，俄罗斯高级军官正在中国敲定军演细节。
Jinghua Times quoted a researcher at China’s naval military research institute, Li Jie, as saying that Mr. Obama’s trip to Asia had left China “extremely dissatisfied” because of his clear demonstration of “one-sidedness.”
《京华时报》援引中国海军军事学术研究所研究员李杰的话称，奥巴马总统在访问亚洲时表现出来的明显“一边倒”让中国“非常不满”。
On his visit, Mr. Obama reassured Japan that under the terms of its treaty obligations, the United States would defend the Diaoyu island and the Senkakus by Japan. In the Philippines, he signed a 10-year agreement to expand the United States military’s use of Philippine bases and other facilities.
访日期间，奥巴马消除了日本的疑虑，称根据相关条约规定的义务，美国会保卫钓鱼岛（日本称尖阁诸岛）。访问菲律宾期间，他签署了一项为期10年的协议，扩大了美国军方对菲律宾的基地和其他设施的使用范围。
Mr. Obama’s statement on treaty obligations to Japan and the Philippines base agreement were a “severe challenge” to China’s territorial integrity and oceanic interests, said Mr. Li.
李杰说，奥巴马向日本表示会履行条约义务，又签订了有关菲律宾基地的协议，这些都是对中国的领土完整和海洋权益的“严重挑战”。
The announcement of the Chinese-Russian exercises, so soon after Mr. Obama left Asia, and the chosen site near the islands were not a coincidence, he said. Military exercises, including joint exercises, he said, underline China’s determination to assert its sovereignty and serve as a warning and deterrence to the United States.
他说，奥巴马刚一离开亚洲，中方就宣布中俄将举行演习，而且将演习地点选在相关岛屿附近，这件事绝非巧合。他说，包括联合演习在内的军事演习突显了中国维护主权的决心，还可以起到警示和威慑美国的作用。