Health officials confirmed Wednesday that bats in Saudi Arabia were the source of the mysterious virus that has sickened 96 people in the Middle East, killing 47 of them.
卫生官员周三证实，沙特阿拉伯的蝙蝠是导致中东96人患病、并让其中47人丧生的神秘病毒的源头。
The outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, or MERS, has been going on for 15 months, with most victims falling ill in Saudi Arabia and others growing sick after having traveled to the Middle East. In a study released Wednesday, an international team of doctors blamed coronavirus in bats for the human outbreak, but said that many questions remained, in part because a perfect match for the virus was found in only a single insect-eating bat out of about 100 Saudi bats tested. And since such bats do not normally bite people, drool on fruit or do other things that might transmit the disease to people, it was still unclear how the virus leapt to humans.
中东呼吸综合征（Middle East Respiratory Syndrome，简称MERS）的出现已经持续15个月了，其中大部分患者是在沙特阿拉伯发病的，还有一些则是去过中东后患病。在周三公布的一项研究中，一个由各国医生组成的小组将人类患中东呼吸综合症归咎于蝙蝠体内的冠状病毒，但也表示依然还有许多遗留问题，这在一定程度上是因为，在大约100只沙特蝙蝠中，仅在一只捕食昆虫的蝙蝠身上发现了和该病毒完全匹配的病毒。而且，因为这种蝙蝠通常不会咬人，不会把唾液滴到水果上，也不会有其他可能将这种疾病传播给人的行为，因此尚不清楚病毒是如何传染给人类的。
The bat is a Taphozous perforatus, or Egyptian tomb bat, which roosts in abandoned buildings, and the virus was found in a fecal sample.
这只蝙蝠属墓蝠属，也被称作埃及墓蝠，栖息在废弃建筑里。病毒是在一份粪便样本中发现的。
So it is possible, said Dr. Jonathan H. Epstein, a veterinarian with the EcoHealth Alliance who helped trap the bats, that victims, like shepherds who might seek shelter in the buildings, picked it up by breathing in dried bat guano — similar to the way that Americans have been infected with hantavirus while sweeping up dried mouse droppings.
因此，协助抓蝙蝠的生态健康联盟(EcoHealth Alliance)兽医乔纳森·H·爱普斯坦(Jonathan H. Epstein)说，患者感染病毒的情形和在清理干老鼠粪便时感染汉坦病毒的美国人类似，比如进入建筑物避风躲雨的牧羊人可能因为吸入干透了的蝙蝠粪便而感染上病毒。
But it is also possible that an animal picked it up that way and then infected a human. Pigs, for instance, can get Nipah virus from bats and then pass it to humans in slaughterhouses.
但也有可能是某个动物通过上述方式感染了病毒，然后又传染了某个人。比如，猪可能会通过蝙蝠感染上“尼帕病毒”，然后再在屠宰厂把病毒传染给人类。
Further tests on camels, sheep, goats and a cow will be finished soon, said Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, head of Columbia University’s Center for Infection and Immunity, which has already done 15,000 polymerase chain reaction tests tracking the virus.
哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)传染与免疫中心(Center for Infection and Immunity)主任W·伊恩·利普金(W. Ian Lipkin)博士说，对骆驼、绵羊、山羊和奶牛的检测很快就要结束了。为了追踪这种病毒，该中心已经进行了1.5万次聚合酶链反应测试。
“It’s a huge amount of work,” he said.
“工作量非常大，”他说。
It has been known for several months that bats in Africa and Eastern Europe carried viruses related to MERS, but the relevant virus had not been found in Middle Eastern bats before. Camels in Oman have shown antibodies to a similar virus.
非洲和东欧的蝙蝠体内携有与MERS相关的病毒，这是几个月前就已经了解的情况，但此前并未在中东的蝙蝠体内发现相关病毒。阿曼的骆驼体内发现了一种类似病毒的抗体。
Knowing that one bat had an identical virus is a start, but more testing will be needed, said Dr. Ziad A. Memish, the Saudi deputy health minister who was a co-author on the study and gave a presentation on the virus in Washington on Wednesday.
沙特阿拉伯卫生部副部长齐亚德·A·梅米希(Ziad A. Memish)博士表示，知道一只蝙蝠体内有一种相同病毒只是个开始，还需要进行更多检测。他是这项研究的共同作者，并于周三在华盛顿对这种病毒进行了介绍。
The infected bat was in an abandoned house in a date palm orchard in Bisha, a small Saudi Arabian city. Investigators from Columbia and EcoHealth Alliance took samples there because the first known victim of the MERS outbreak was a businessman who had lived in Bisha and had his business, a large paint warehouse, nearby. The warehouse had a large garden with fruit trees and insects that attract many kinds of bats. The victim, a wealthy 60-year-old man, got sick in mid-June and died two weeks later, Dr. Lipkin said.
被感染的这只蝙蝠生活在沙特小城比沙堡一片海枣林中的一栋废弃房屋里。来自哥伦比亚大学和生态健康联盟的调查人员之所以会在那里取样，是因为已知的第一例MERS患者就是一名居住在比沙堡的商人，他在附近有一座大型油漆仓库。仓库里有一个大园子，园子里的果树和昆虫吸引了多种蝙蝠。利普金说，该患者是一名富有的60岁男子，6月中旬患病，两周后便去世了。
The victim also owned four pet camels that were sampled, but those results are not in yet, Dr. Lipkin added. 
利普金博士补充说，患者还有四头被当做宠物的骆驼，那些骆驼都接受了取样，但结果还没出来。
The victim from Bisha had separate houses for his three wives and was building a fourth for a woman he planned to marry, “which suggests he was still vigorous,” Dr. Lipkin said.
利普金博士说，比沙堡那名患者的三个妻子各自有独立的房屋，他当时还在为自己打算娶进门的另一名女子修建房屋，“这表明他依然精力充沛。”
But most of those killed by the new virus were old and had chronic conditions like diabetes or heart disease. Cases are being found of younger, healthier victims who often have milder symptoms, according to Dr. Memish, so it may soon be established that the disease’s mortality rate is much lower than 60 percent.
但在因这种新病毒而去世的人中，大部分都是患有像糖尿病和心脏病这样的慢性疾病的老人。据梅米希博士称，更年轻、更健康的人感染这种病毒的病例正在出现，因此，科学家可能很快就会确认，这种疾病的死亡率远低于60%。