UNITED NATIONS — Russia and the Trump administration clashed in a vote at the U.N. Security Council for the first time Tuesday as the Kremlin vetoed a measure backed by the Americans to punish Syria for using chemical weapons.
联合国——周二，俄罗斯和特朗普政府第一次在联合国安全理事会的投票中发生冲突，克里姆林宫否决了美国人支持的对叙利亚使用化学武器施以惩罚的议案。
While the Russians had long signaled their intent to block the resolution, which was supported by dozens of countries, the clash offered insights into the big divisions that remain between the Kremlin and President Donald Trump, who has vowed to improve ties.
虽然俄罗斯人一直表示会否决这项获得了几十个国家支持的决议，但从这个冲突中可以看到克里姆林宫和特朗普总统之间存在着巨大的分歧，尽管特朗普誓言要改善两国关系。
Russia and China, two of the five permanent members of the council, blocked the measure. It was the Kremlin’s seventh Security Council veto in defense of President Bashar Assad of Syria over the war that has been convulsing his country for nearly six years.
五个常任理事国中有两个否决了这项决议，俄罗斯和中国。这是克里姆林宫第七次为了维护叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar Assad)在安理会投否决票，叙利亚遭受战争的蹂躏已经将近六年。
The resolution, proposed by Britain and France months ago and endorsed by the United States last week, would have imposed sanctions on a handful of Syrian military officials and entities for having dropped chlorine-filled barrel bombs on opposition-held areas on at least three occasions in 2014 and 2015, according to a U.N. panel.
这项决议是英国和法国在几个月前提出的，上周获得了美国的支持，它将对少数叙利亚军事官员和机构实行制裁，联合国的一个专家小组表示，在2014年和2015年，他们至少有三次把充氯的炸弹投到了反对派的控制区。
Russia’s envoy, Vladimir Safronkov, defended the veto, calling the resolution “politically biased” and asserting that Russia’s concerns about the draft language had not been addressed.
俄罗斯特使弗拉基米尔·萨夫伦科夫(Vladimir Safronkov)为否决票进行了辩护，声称这个决议“在政治上有偏见”，而且俄罗斯对草案措辞的关切没有得到解决。
President Vladimir Putin of Russia reinforced his opposition before the vote Tuesday, adding that any Security Council penalties on the Syrian government would complicate diplomatic efforts aimed at halting the war.
俄罗斯总统普京在周二的投票之前重申了他的反对意见，并且表示安理会对叙利亚政府实施任何处罚，都会导致以外交方式结束战争的努力变得复杂。
“As for sanctions against the Syrian leadership, I think the move is totally inappropriate now,” he told a news conference while visiting Kyrgyzstan.
“关于对叙利亚领导人的制裁，我认为现在采取这种做法毫不妥当，”他在访问吉尔吉斯斯坦期间在记者招待会上说。
China’s ambassador, Liu Jieyi, recalling the now-discredited U.S. warnings of Iraq’s “so-called WMDs” in 2003, criticized the resolution as an example of “hypocrisy” by the Western powers. “It was forced through to a vote while council members still have differences,” he said. “This is in no way helpful to finding a solution.”
中国常驻联合国代表刘结一回顾了2003年美国对伊拉克名誉扫地的“所谓大规模杀伤性武器”警告，批评该决议是西方列强“伪善”的例子。“委员会成员意见仍存在差异的时候，就强行举行投票，这对于找到解决方案没有任何帮助。”他说。
Chlorine is banned as a weapon under an international treaty that Assad’s government signed in 2013.
根据阿萨德政府在2013年签署的一个国际条约，氯被禁止作为武器使用。