Every day the headlines from the Arab world get worse: An Al Qaeda affiliate group, aided by foreign fighters, battles with seven different homegrown Syrian rebel groups for control of the region around Aleppo, Syria. The Iranian Embassy in Beirut is bombed. Mohamad Chatah, an enormously decent former Lebanese finance minister, is blown up after criticizing Hezbollah’s brutish tactics. Another pro-Al Qaeda group takes control of Fallujah, Iraq. Explosions rock Egypt, where the army is now jailing Islamists and secular activists. Libya is a mess of competing militias.
每一天，阿拉伯世界的新闻都会变得更加糟糕：基地组织(Al Qaeda)的分支团体在外国作战人员的协助下，与七支叙利亚本土反对派武装组织作战，争夺叙利亚阿勒颇周边区域的控制权；伊朗在黎巴嫩贝鲁特的大使馆遭到炸弹袭击；十分正直的黎巴嫩前财政部长穆罕默德·夏塔哈(Mohamad Chatah)在对真主党(Hezbollah)残暴的战术提出批评后，被炸身亡；另一个支持基地组织的团体控制了伊拉克费卢杰；爆炸事件也撼动了埃及，军方目前正在将伊斯兰派和世俗派的活动人士关进监狱；利比亚则是一团糟，各派武装团体打来打去。
What’s going on? Some say it’s all because of the “power vacuum” — America has absented itself from the region. But this is not just about us. There’s also a huge “values vacuum.” The Middle East is a highly pluralistic region — Shiites, Sunnis, Kurds, Christians, Druze and various tribes — that for centuries was held together from above by iron-fisted colonial powers, kings and dictators. But now that vertical control has broken down, before this pluralistic region has developed any true bottom-up pluralism — a broad ethic of tolerance — that might enable its people to live together as equal citizens, without an iron fist from above.
到底是怎么回事？有人说是因为“权力真空”——美国在中东地区主动缺席了。但原因并不只是我们，这里也存在巨大的“价值观真空”。中东是一个高度多元化的地带，有什叶派、逊尼派、库尔德人、基督徒、德鲁兹派，还有各种各样的部落。数百年来，实行铁腕统治的殖民大国、君主、独裁者维持着这块土地的统一。然而现在，自上而下的控制已经崩溃，但这个多元的地区尚未发展出任何真正自下而上的多元秩序，这种具有包容性的宽泛道德观，或许能让中东地区的民众，在没有高高在上的铁腕统治的情况下，作为平等的公民共同生活。
For the Arab awakening to have any future, the ideology that is most needed now is the one being promoted least: Pluralism. Until that changes, argues Marwan Muasher, in his extremely relevant new book — “The Second Arab Awakening and the Battle for Pluralism” — none of the Arab uprisings will succeed.
要想让阿拉伯世界的觉醒能有任何未来，当下最需要的意识形态，得到的传播却最少，它就是多元主义。马尔万·马阿谢尔(Marwan Muasher)在他具有极大参考价值的新书《第二次阿拉伯觉醒和争取多元主义的战斗》(The Second Arab Awakening and the Battle for Pluralism)中提到，如果这一点不改变，阿拉伯世界的起义都不会成功。
Again, President Obama could have done more to restrain leaders in Iraq, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Iran or Syria from going to extremes. But, ultimately, argues Muasher, this is the Arabs’ fight for their political future. If 500,000 American troops in Iraq, and $1 trillion, could not implant lasting pluralism in the cultural soil there, no outsider can, said Muasher. There also has to be a will from within. Why is it that some 15,000 Arabs and Muslims have flocked to Syria to fight and die for jihadism and zero have flocked to Syria to fight and die for pluralism? Is it only because we didn’t give the “good guys” big enough guns?
当然，奥巴马总统本来可以付出更大努力，约束伊拉克、埃及、沙特阿拉伯、伊朗或叙利亚的领导者，让他们不要过于极端。但马阿谢尔说，最终还是需要阿拉伯人自己为阿拉伯世界的政治未来进行奋斗。他指出，既然美国在伊拉克派驻了50万名士兵、消耗了1万亿美元，都没能在这里的文化土壤中培植出持久的多元主义，也就没有哪个外来者能做到。内部必须要有这种意愿。为什么有1.5万名阿拉伯人和穆斯林涌向叙利亚，为了圣战思想而参战牺牲，而愿意为构建多元主义参战牺牲的却一个都没有呢？原因只是我们没有向“好人”提供足够大的武器？
As Muasher, a former Jordanian foreign minister and now a vice president at the Carnegie Endowment in Washington, put it in an interview: “Three years of the Arab uprising have shown the bankruptcy of all the old political forces in the Arab world.” The corrupt secular autocrats who failed to give their young people the tools to thrive — and, as a result, triggered these uprisings — are still locked in a struggle with Islamists, who also have no clue how to deliver jobs, services, security and economic growth. (Tunisia may be an exception.) “As long as we’re in the this zero-sum game, the sum will be zero,” says Muasher. 
就像马阿谢尔在一次采访中说的：“阿拉伯世界发生起义的三年，说明阿拉伯世界旧的政治力量已经破产。”马阿谢尔是约旦前外长，现在担任华盛顿卡内基基金会(Carnegie Endowment)副会长。腐朽的世俗派当权者没能向治下的年轻人提供蓬勃发展的机遇，因此诱发了这些起义。现在这些当权者深陷在与伊斯兰派的斗争中，后者对于提供就业、服务、安全和经济增长也毫无头绪。（突尼斯或许是一个例外。）马阿谢尔说，“只要我们身在这场零和博弈之中，最终的结果就只能是零。”
No sustainable progress will be possible, argues Muasher, without the ethic of pluralism permeating all aspects of Arab society — pluralism of thought, pluralism in gender opportunities, pluralism in respect to other religions, pluralism in education, pluralism toward minorities, pluralism of political parties rotating in power and pluralism in the sense of everyone’s right to think differently from the collective.
马阿谢尔说，要想取得可持续的进步，多元主义的道德观就必须渗透到阿拉伯世界的各个层面——思想的多元性、性别机遇的多元性、包容其他宗教的多元性、教育的多元性、面向少数族群的多元性、政党轮替的政治多元性，以及承认每个人都有权利以不同于集体的方式思考的多元性。
The first Arab awakening in the 20th century was a fight for independence from colonial powers, says Muasher. It never continued as a fight for democracy and pluralism. That war of ideas, he insists, is what “the second Arab awakening” has to be about. Neither the autocrats nor the Islamists can deliver progress. “Pluralism is the operating system we need to solve all our problems, and as long as that operating system is not in place, we will not get there. This is an internal battle. Let’s stop hoping for delivery from the outside.” This will take time.
马阿谢尔说，20世纪的第一次阿拉伯觉醒是一场挣脱殖民强国，寻求独立的斗争。这场斗争并没有持续发展成争取民主和多元主义的斗争。马阿谢尔坚定地说，这场思想观念的斗争必须成为“第二次阿拉伯觉醒”的重点。无论是独裁者还是伊斯兰派，都不能推动进步。“多元主义是我们解决所有问题时都需要的‘操作系统’，只要这个‘操作系统’没有到位，就无法实现目标。这是一场内部的斗争，我们不应再期盼着外界的力量能给我们带来解脱。”但这需要时间。
Naïve? No. Naïve is thinking that everything is about the absence or presence of American power, and that the people of the region have no agency. That’s wrong: Iraq is splintering because Prime Minister Maliki behaved like a Shiite militiaman, not an Iraqi Mandela. Arab youths took their future in their own hands, motivated largely by pluralistic impulses. But the old order proved to be too stubborn, yet these youth aspirations have not gone away, and will not.
这种想法天真吗？不天真。以为所有问题都事关美国力量的在场与否才是天真的，以为该地区的民众没有行动的力量同样是天真的。这些想法也是错误的：伊拉克之所以分崩离析，是因为该国总理马利基(Maliki)的所作所为像是一个什叶派武装分子，而不像是伊拉克的曼德拉(Mandela)。阿拉伯世界的青年把未来抓到了自己手中，动机大都出于多元主义的冲动。然而旧的秩序显然太过顽固，不过这些年轻人的志向并未磨灭，也不会磨灭。
“The Arab world will go through a period of turmoil in which exclusionist forces will attempt to dominate the landscape with absolute truths and new dictatorships,” writes Muasher. But “these forces will also fade, because, in the end, the exclusionist, authoritarian discourses cannot answer the people’s needs for better quality of life. ...  As history has demonstrated overwhelmingly, where there is respect for diversity, there is prosperity. Contrary to what Arab societies have been taught for decades by their governments to believe — that tolerance, acceptance of different points of view, and critical thinking are destructive to national unity and economic growth — experience proves that societies cannot keep renewing themselves and thereby thrive except through diversity.”
马阿谢尔写道：“阿拉伯世界会经历一段时间的混乱，专横的力量会试图用绝对的真理和新的独裁统治主导这片土地。”但是“这些力量也会消逝，因为到最后，专横的、威权主义的政治理念并不能满足人们对更高质量的生活的需求……历史已经以极强的说服力表明，哪里尊重多样性，哪里就有繁荣。数十年来，阿拉伯国家的政府一直在向阿拉伯社会灌输，宽容、对不同观点的接纳，以及批判性思维会破坏国家统一和经济增长。但与这种观点恰好相反，历史经验证明，社会要想不断更新，进而蓬勃兴旺，除了保证多样性之外别无他法。”
Muasher, who is returning to Jordan to participate in this struggle for diversity, dedicated his book to: “The youth of the Arab World — who revolted, not against their parents, but on their behalf.”
马阿谢尔即将回到约旦，参与这场促进多样性的奋斗。他在书的扉页写下的献词是：“至阿拉伯世界的青年——他们的反叛不是为了反对父母，而是代表父母。”