CAIRO — Over seven decades, the United States and Saudi Arabia forged a strategic alliance that became a linchpin of the regional order: a liberal democracy and an ultraconservative monarchy united by shared interests in the stability of the Middle East and the continued flow of oil.
开罗——过去七年，美国和沙特阿拉伯达成了战略合作伙伴关系，而这也成为了实现地区稳固的关键：自由民主制度和极端保守的君主制由共同利益团结在一起，以求中东的稳定和石油的持续供给。
But with President Obama arriving in Riyadh on Friday, the rulers of Saudi Arabia say they feel increasingly compelled to go their own way, pursuing starkly different strategies from Washington in dealing with Iran, Syria, Egypt and the role of the Muslim Brotherhood in the region.
但当奥巴马在周五抵达利雅得时，沙特阿拉伯的统治者们告诉他，他们越来越觉得有必要按照自己的方式行事，而这将与华盛顿对伊朗、叙利亚和埃及的战略，以及穆斯林兄弟会在该地区所扮演的角色完全背道而驰。
“Their view of Mr. Obama is that his entire understanding is wrong,” said Mustafa Alani, an analyst at the Geneva-based Gulf Research Center who is close to the Saudi monarchy. “The trust in him is not very high, so he will not have an easy ride, and a lot of hard questions will be put on the table.”
“他们觉得奥巴马完全看不清局势，”穆斯塔法·阿勒阿尼(Mustafa Alani)说，他是总部位于日内瓦的海湾研究中心(Gulf Reserch Center)的分析人士，与沙特王室有着紧密的联系。“他们对他并不是很信任，所以不会让他轻松过关，到时很多难题会被摆在桌面上。”
Saudi Arabia’s leaders had historically favored a quiet, backstage approach to international relations. They preferred to use their oil wealth to buy influence from behind the scenes while allies like Egypt and the United States led the way out front. But the United States has scaled back its military role in the region after the war in Iraq, and since the Arab Spring, Egypt has been consumed by its own internal turmoil.
沙特阿拉伯的领导人向来偏向于通过私下的途径悄悄解决国际关系问题。他们更喜欢用石油财富在幕后施加影响力，让埃及和美国这样的同盟国站在前线。但是，美国在伊拉克战争后削减了在该地区的军事影响力，而埃及自阿拉伯之春以来也被内乱所消耗。
Saudi Arabian officials say that has forced them to pursue their own course, to try to contain Iran, oust President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and support the military-backed government that has taken over in Egypt.
沙特阿拉伯的官员称，这让他们不得不采取自己的行动，以求遏制伊朗，罢免叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)，以及支持军方背景的新一任埃及政府。
For Mr. Obama, the disposition of the Saudis is now a main concern as he plots a policy toward both Syria and Iran. A central goal of his visit is to reassure Saudi Arabia that Washington’s commitment to its security will not be compromised by negotiations with Iran about lifting sanctions in exchange for limits on its nuclear program.
对奥巴马来说，在对叙利亚和伊朗政策的制定上，沙特的转变已经成了他的一个主要担忧。他这次访问的主要目的是打消沙特阿拉伯的顾虑，承诺华盛顿对他们安全的保证不会因为与伊朗的谈判而有所妥协。美国和伊朗交涉的内容有关减轻对伊朗的制裁，来交换伊朗对其核计划的限制。
In Egypt, Saudi Arabia has effectively replaced the United States as Cairo’s chief benefactor, in tandem with the United Arab Emirates. That gives the two monarchies enormous influence in Egypt, which was once Washington’s other key Arab ally. And the Saudis have already used that influence to undercut American policy. Riyadh encouraged the military’s ouster of the Muslim Brotherhood from power and the subsequent crackdown on its supporters, while United States diplomats hustled in vain to avert both moves.
在埃及，沙特阿拉伯实际上已经取代美国，与阿拉伯联合酋长国(United Arab Emirates)携手成为开罗的主要金主。这让两个君主制国家在埃及拥有了强大的影响力，而埃及本身曾几何时也是华盛顿的另一个重要的阿拉伯盟友。并且沙特已经运用其影响力降低了美国在该地区政策的效力。利雅得鼓励军方剥夺穆兄会的权力，随后对其支持者实施镇压，而这两个举措美国外交官都急于制止但却徒劳无功。
Now the Obama administration is hoping to persuade Saudi Arabia to use its greater clout with Cairo to convince the government there to rein in its repression of the opposition and begin to overhaul its economy — the Western formula for restoring stability.
现在奥巴马政府正试图说服沙特阿拉伯，利用其对开罗更大的影响力，来劝说埃及政府控制住对反对派的压迫，并开始大力振兴经济——这是西方对恢复社会稳定的一贯方案。
“The Saudis realize that the interim Egyptian government is overshooting the runway with regards to their crackdown on the Muslim Brotherhood,” an administration official said on the condition of anonymity to discuss Mr. Obama’s coming visit. “The Saudis realize that the Egyptians have crossed the line with the massive crackdown on journalists, secular opposition, foreign embassy employees, etc.”
“沙特人现在意识到，埃及临时政府在打击穆兄会的问题上做的太过了，”一位不愿透露姓名的政府官员在谈到奥巴马即将到来的访问时说。“沙特人认识到，在打压新闻记者、世俗反对势力和外国大使馆雇员等等的事情上，埃及已经越过了底线。”
But after backing the removal of the Brotherhood’s Mohamed Morsi as president of Egypt, the Saudis have now taken the lead in a campaign against the Brotherhood across the region.
但在支持推翻身为穆兄会成员的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)后，沙特人正在该地区发起一场反对穆兄会的战役。
“It is a war,” said a former Saudi official with ties to members of the royal family. “They see the Muslim Brotherhood as an existential threat, and there are some people who think that it is possible to eradicate the Brotherhood throughout the region.”
“这是一场战争，”与王室成员有联系的前沙特官员说。“他们将穆兄会视作事关生死的威胁，有些人认为将穆兄会从整个地区根除是可能的。”
Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, along with Kuwait, have already given more than $15 billion in aid and loans to Egypt. In recent weeks, a construction company linked to the government of the Emirates announced plans for a partnership with the Egyptian military to build more than $40 billion in new housing in Egypt.
沙特阿拉伯、阿联酋及科威特已经给予埃及逾150亿美元（约合932亿元人民币）的援助和贷款。最近几周，一家与阿联酋政府有关联的建筑公司宣布计划与埃及军队建立合作关系，在埃及建造价值逾400亿美元的新住宅。
Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, the general who ousted the elected president and is now planning to succeed him, presented the housing project to the Egyptian public on the eve of declaring his intention to seek the presidency. And the Emirates have sent one of their government’s ministers of state, Sultan Ahmed al-Jaber, to spend much of his time in Cairo to help the Egyptian government with its economy.
罢黜民选总统的阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西将军(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)现在计划接替总统职务，他在宣布计划谋求当选总统的前一夜，向埃及公众介绍了住宅项目。阿联酋已经派一位部长——苏丹·艾哈迈德·贾比尔(Sultan Ahmed al-Jaber)前往开罗，他在那里主要的任务是帮助埃及政府解决经济问题。
The Saudis have sometimes financed jihadists abroad when in served their interests, in Afghanistan during the 1980s, for example, and in Syria now. But the Saudi royal family, which draws its legitimacy from an ultraconservative Salafi branch of Islam, has long feared the Muslim Brotherhood because of its rival blend of religion and politics and its effectiveness at political organizing. Saudi officials often quote Prince Nayef bin Abdul Aziz al-Saud, the former long-serving interior minister: “All our problems come from the Muslim Brotherhood,” he once declared, arguing that the group “has destroyed the Arab world.”
如果符合他们的利益，沙特人偶尔也会资助国外的圣战主义者，例如在20世纪80年代的阿富汗，以及现在的叙利亚。但凭借极端保守的萨拉菲派伊斯兰获得正当性的沙特王室，一直对穆兄会心存忌惮，因为后者将政教结合形成了极大竞争力，还有很高的政治组织效率。沙特官员经常引用任职多年的前内政部长纳伊夫·本·阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹·阿勒沙特亲王(Prince Nayef bin Abdul Aziz al-Saud)话：“我们所有的问题都是穆兄会造成的，”他曾宣称，并提出是该组织“毁了阿拉伯世界”。
But the country’s open support for the military ouster of the Muslim Brotherhood has risks as well. The takeover and crackdown have elicited stirrings of dissent from Saudi clerics sympathetic to the Brotherhood. And around the region, Saudi Arabia is “losing friends left and right,” said Frederic Wehrey, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
但沙特对军方驱逐穆兄会的公开支持也存在风险。这种接管及打压行动促使支持穆兄会的沙特神职人员开始提出异议。卡内基国际和平基金会(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)的学者弗雷德里克·韦雷(Frederic Wehrey)表示，在该地区，沙特阿拉伯正在“失去左右两边的朋友”。
“The generals are going to have to show that they can govern more effectively than the Brotherhood did, and it is a great worry for the Saudis that the generals might flame out as well,” said Robert W. Jordan, a former United States ambassador to Saudi Arabia.
前美国驻沙特阿拉伯大使罗伯特·W·乔丹(Robert W. Jordan)说，“将军们将需要证明，与穆兄会相比，他们能更加有效地执政，沙特人非常担心将军们可能也会失败。”
Saudi leaders are already vexed at Mr. Obama for failing to throw America’s military might behind their proxy war with Tehran in Syria, where the Saudis are sending money and weapons to back the Sunni-dominated rebels. And the Saudis were flabbergasted last year when Mr. Obama reversed course at the last minute, calling off missile strikes against the Assad government for its use of chemical weapons.
对于奥巴马没能派美国军队支持他们在叙利亚与德黑兰开展的代理战争，沙特人已经大为光火，在那场战争中，沙特向叙利亚提供资金和武器，支持以逊尼派为主导的反对派。去年，当奥巴马在最后一刻改弦更张，取消以阿萨德政府使用化学武器为由对其进行导弹攻击的计划时，沙特人大吃一惊。
Mr. Obama opted instead for a deal for Mr. Assad to surrender the weapons, and then watched as the Syrian government rolled back the rebels using conventional force.
奥巴马转而选择达成协议，促使阿萨德交出武器，然后看着叙利亚政府利用常规力量击退反对派。
Mr. Obama “has got it all wrong when it comes to Iran,” Faisal J. Abbas, a commentator for the Saudi-owned news network Al Arabiya, wrote in a column this week, accusing the president of a “new fondness” for the Iranians and calling it “the heart of the problem” in his relations with the Saudis.
沙特新闻电视网阿拉伯电视台(Al Arabiya)的评论员费萨尔·J·阿巴斯(Faisal J. Abbas)本周在专栏中写道，奥巴马“在伊朗问题上完全错了”，他指责奥巴马总统是伊朗人的“新宠”，称并这是他和沙特之间“问题的核心所在”。
But the Obama administration still hopes for Saudi help with Egypt. “The Saudis also don’t have the intent or inclination to float the Egyptian economy forever,” said the administration official, so it will need to restructure its economy. “The Saudis also get that won’t happen if the current political climate continues.”
但奥巴马政府依然希望在埃及问题上得到沙特的帮助。“沙特人也没有使埃及的经济发展永远停滞的动机或意愿，”奥巴马政府政府官员表示，因此它会需要去重整埃及的经济。“同时沙特人也清楚，如果目前的政治氛围继续保持下去，重整是不可能的。”