BLAGOVESHCHENSK, Russia — Lured by warming relations between the two countries, Li Lihua, a Chinese entrepreneur, has invested all of her money in this frigid Russian outpost on the border with her country. She has opened Chinese restaurants, purchased factories and started a $120 million housing project to build affordable apartments aimed at young, upwardly mobile Russians.
俄罗斯布拉戈维申斯克——在日益升温的中俄关系诱惑下，中国企业家李丽华（音）将所有资金都投到了这个冰冷的中俄边境城市。她开了中餐厅，收购工厂，并开启了一个耗资1.2亿美元的房地产项目，建造针对正向上层流动的俄罗斯年轻人的廉价公寓。
But Ms. Li says that capital for the housing development has dried up as the Russian economy sinks. She now worries that she will have to sell off other parts of her business to move forward on the project.
但李丽华说，随着俄罗斯经济的下滑，该房地产开发项目的资金已经耗尽。她现在担心自己需要出售其他业务来推进该项目。
“The two countries are desperate to cooperate with each other,” said Ms. Li, 48. “On the ground, the joint action is not that obvious.”
“这两个国家非常渴望合作，”48岁的李丽华说。“但实际上，这种共同行动不是那么明显。”
At the highest levels, Beijing and Moscow haven’t been friendlier in decades. Both sides are promising to expand trade and investment. As part of Russia’s effort to “pivot” to Asia and reduce dependence on the West, Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev is on a four-day official visit to China this week.
从最高层方面来看，北京和莫斯科数十年来从未如此友好。双方都承诺扩大贸易和投资。作为俄罗斯“转向”亚洲、降低对西方的依赖程度的一部分举措，俄罗斯总理德米特里·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri Medvedev)本周对中国开展了为期四天的正式访问。
But this remote corner of Asia — where Blagoveshchensk, Russia, sits on one side of the border and its sister city, Heihe, China, on the other — shows how the diplomatic handshakes haven’t yet translated into closer cooperation.
但这个亚洲偏僻角落的发展情况说明，这种外交交流尚未转变成更为密切的合作关系。中俄边境一边是俄罗斯的布拉戈维申斯克，另一边是其姐妹城市——中国的黑河。
Businesses on both sides of a border remain hamstrung by poor infrastructure, a shortage of financing and Russia’s severe economic troubles. The challenges illustrate how far ties between the two former Communist rivals must progress to significantly decrease their dependence on the United States and Europe for investment, technology and exports.
由于基础设施落后，缺乏资金，俄罗斯面临严重经济问题，边界两边的企业都无能无力。这些挑战说明这两个前共产主义竞争对手的关系必须取得极大进展，以降低它们在投资、技术及出口方面对美国和欧洲的依赖。
“There are harsh factors that will put constraints on the relationship,” says Alexander Gabuev, chairman of the Russia in the Asia-Pacific Program at the Carnegie Moscow Center. “There is a deep culture of distrust that will be there for a long time.”
“有一些严酷的因素会限制两国关系的发展，”卡内基莫斯科中心(Moscow Carnegie Center)亚太地区的俄罗斯项目(Russia in the Asia-Pacific Program)负责人亚历山大·加布耶夫(Alexander Gabuev)说。“那种深层的不信任感会持续很长时间。”
The Chinese and Russians in these two border towns, though separated only by the narrow Amur River, were driven apart by political ambition and a cultural divide for much of their history. In 1900, after China’s imperial troops shelled Blagoveshchensk, Russian officials forcibly expelled the Chinese from the town, causing thousands to drown in the Amur. During the Cold War, when a nasty ideological schism turned the Communist compatriots into bitter enemies, the border was sealed off with barbed wire and bunkers.
住在这两个边境城市的中国人和俄罗斯人尽管只隔着阿穆尔河（中国称黑龙江——译注），但政治野心和长期以来的文化差异致使他们存在分歧。1900年，在中国的帝国军队炮轰布拉戈维申斯克后，俄罗斯官员强行驱逐该市的中国人，导致数千人在阿穆尔河溺亡。冷战期间，严重的意识形态分歧导致这对共产主义同胞变成仇敌，中俄边境被封，设置了铁丝网和掩体。
With the coming of economic reform and “opening up” in China, the frostiness began to thaw. Trade between Heihe and Blagoveshchensk reopened in 1986, and in 2000, a small, special economic zone was formed along the border to encourage commerce. Shopfronts in Heihe sport signs in both Chinese characters and Russian Cyrillic.
随着中国实施经济改革“开放”举措，这种冷漠关系开始解冻。黑河与布拉戈维申斯克从1986年开始恢复贸易，2000年，两国在边界沿线设立了一个规模较小的经济特区，以促进贸易。黑河地区的店面都挂有用汉字和俄语西里尔字母标注的招牌。
Still, the two cities remain worlds apart in many respects.
但这两个城市在很多方面仍然有着天壤之别。
The only way across the Amur River is a pricey ferry ride in a cramped motorboat (except in the middle of winter, when vehicles can drive across the frozen waterway). That bottleneck greatly limits the volume of people and goods that can travel from town to town.
乘坐昂贵而狭小的摩托艇是穿越阿穆尔河的唯一方式（除了在冬天，车辆可以从结冰的航道通过）。这种瓶颈在很大程度上限制了来往两地的人员及商品的数量。
The communities barely intermingle. The ferry’s operators don’t allow Russians and Chinese to travel together in the same boat, alternating the two groups instead. Residents in Blagoveshchensk are more likely to speak a bit of English than Chinese.
这里的社区基本上没有相互融合。渡轮运营商不允许俄罗斯人和中国人乘坐同一条船，安排他们轮流乘船。相比中文，布拉戈维申斯克的居民们倒是更有可能会一些英文。
The barriers to doing business with Russia have also remained stubbornly high.
与俄罗斯做生意的难度一直居高不下。
Wang Xin, 31, started importing Russian chocolates, cookies and candies in 2008 and marketing them to Chinese shops and consumers over the Internet. Today, he sells around $150,000 worth of Russian goodies a month from his office in Heihe.
31岁的王新（音）从2008年开始进口俄罗斯巧克力和饼干，并通过网络将它们卖给中国的商铺和顾客。如今，他在黑河的公司每月可以卖出大约价值15万美元的俄罗斯商品。
Yet bringing his products over the border is time-consuming and expensive. After a 10-day journey by truck from Moscow, Mr. Wang must wait three weeks for his chocolates to crawl over the river by boat and through each nation’s customs procedures. Lofty duties and taxes imposed by both governments tack on extra costs — some 30 percent onto a package of cookies, for instance.
但将产品运过边境是一个耗时耗钱的过程，坐了10天卡车从莫斯科返回黑河后，他必须要等三周才能收到巧克力，这些商品要通过船只运送过河，走完两国的海关程序。除了额外费用，两国政府对商品征收高额关税——例如，一盒饼干会被征收30%的关税。
The gap between rhetoric and reality in China-Russia relations is significant.
在中俄关系方面，现实和言语之间仍存在巨大差距。
The Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, has for several years been turning to China as the one economic power with the cash, clout and consumers to help him wriggle from the West’s grip. That shift became even more imperative after low oil prices and Western sanctions over the Ukraine crisis further strained the Russian economy.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)多年来求助于中国这个拥有现金、影响力和消费者的经济强国，意图摆脱西方的制肘。由于油价下跌，再加上西方国家以乌克兰危机为由对俄施加制裁的举措进一步削弱俄罗斯经济，这种转变变得更加迫切。
President Xi Jinping of China has been a willing partner.
中国国家主席习近平是一个愿意合作的伙伴。
With economic growth likely to be the slowest in a quarter-century in 2015, Beijing sees Russia as a potential gold mine of raw materials, infrastructure projects and new customers for its sputtering factories.
由于中国在2015年的经济增长速度可能跌至25年来的最低水平，北京将俄罗斯视作拥有原材料、基础设施项目及新客户的潜在金矿，可以促进收益下滑的工厂的发展。
The two sides have signed major agreements in energy and finance. Trade between them, at $95 billion in 2014, more than quadrupled in only 10 years.
双方签订了一些涉及能源和金融的重要协议。两国的贸易额在仅仅10年内就增加了三倍多，2014年达到了950亿美元。
Many entrepreneurs and officials in the two border towns believe their futures are inexorably linked.
这两个边境城市的很多企业家和官员认为它们的未来是紧密相连的。
The local government in Heihe is building a pedestrian walkway across the Amur. And next year, construction will commence on a $240 million bridge linking the towns, financed jointly by the two countries.
黑河地方政府正在建造横跨阿穆尔河的步行桥。明年，两国将共同出资2.4亿美元，开始建造连接这两个城市的大桥。
With improved economic ties, “we will be able to reach our goal of becoming more like a city in Northern Europe,” says Guo Wengui, a former official in the Heihe government.
前黑河政府官员郭文贵（音）表示，随着经济关系的改善，“我们将能够完成接近北欧城市水平的目标。”
But China has not been the white knight Moscow expected.
但中国并不是莫斯科所期待的救星。
With oil prices tumbling, China has been dragging its feet on advancing much-heralded agreements to buy natural gas from Russia. Last year, Chinese foreign direct investment into Russia more than doubled, but it still accounted for only 5.6 percent of the total.
随着油价的下跌，中国一直不情愿推进曾大肆宣扬的购买俄罗斯天然气协议。去年，中国对俄罗斯的直接投资增加了一倍多，但仍然只占外国投资总额的5.6%。
The Russians “keep looking to Asia to say to the West ‘we have other friends,’ but it’s not so easy,” says Edward Chow, senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
俄罗斯人“一直寄希望于亚洲国家，好告诉西方国家‘我们有其他朋友’，但这并不容易，”华盛顿国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)高级研究员爱德华·周(Edward Chow)说。
In these border towns, the disparities are obvious.
这些边境城市有着明显差距。
Heihe is a showcase of China’s new wealth, with manicured streets lined with modern office complexes and hotels overlooking the picturesque river, many topped by faux-European architecture lighted brightly at night. Blagoveshchensk, by contrast, is an older town dominated by Soviet-era buildings that gives the impression that its best days have already passed.
黑河体现了中国的新财富，整洁的街道两旁矗立着现代办公大楼，以及可以俯瞰风景如画的河流的酒店，很多建筑顶部设有仿欧洲风格的建筑物，夜间灯火通明。相比之下，布拉戈维申斯克是一个比较老的城市，以苏联时代的建筑为主，给人一种最好的日子已经一去不复返的印象。
Last year, the Chinese shipped four times more goods to Russia through Heihe than they imported in return. As Russia’s economy has sunk into a deep recession, it has also sapped the spending power of Blagoveshchensk’s residents.
去年，中国通过黑河向俄罗斯出口的产品比进口的产品多了四倍。随着俄罗斯经济陷入深度衰退，布拉戈维申斯克居民的消费能力也有所减弱。
That has crippled business along the border.
这给边界沿线的商业发展造成了打击。
The Big Heihe International Trade Town, a cavernous marketplace on an island in the Amur, was once teeming with Russian shoppers looking for bargains on everything from underwear to appliances from Chinese merchants. But these days, its narrow hallways are nearly empty.
阿穆尔河一座岛上的大型市场——大黑河岛国际商贸城——曾经挤满了寻找便宜货的俄罗斯购物者，他们想从中国商贩手中购买从内衣到家电的各种产品。但最近，商贸城狭窄的走廊里几乎空无一人。
Zhang Yingying, 40, says her sneaker shop once had 1,000 Russian customers each day. But now she’s lucky to get 100, who often seek out the cheapest merchandise.
40岁的张盈盈（音）说，她的运动鞋商店曾经一天接待1000名俄罗斯顾客。但如今，能有100名客人就不错了，他们通常寻找最便宜的商品。
“I am worried I will have to find another business to do,” she said.
她说，“我担心我得找其他生意来做。”
The problems are widespread.
这个问题是普遍存在的。
Five years ago, an entrepreneur, Liu Jingmin, 40, started pouring $4.6 million into a factory in Heihe to manufacture building insulation for Russian construction companies. While business was brisk at first, Mr. Liu hasn’t exported a single crate this year.
五年前，40岁的创业者刘京民（音）开始向黑河的一家工厂投资460万美元，这家工厂为俄罗斯建筑企业生产建筑隔热材料。虽然生意起初非常兴旺，但刘京民今年连一箱货物也没有卖出去。
“What we are doing now is waiting for the Russian market to become warmer,” he said.
他说，“我们目前在等待俄罗斯市场回暖。”
For Ms. Li, the situation is threatening her entire operation.
对于李丽华来说，这种形势给她的所有业务都造成了威胁。
Born near Harbin, a major city in northeastern China, Ms. Li studied Russian at a local school and, looking to start her own business in the late 1990s, saw opportunity in Blagoveshchensk. The Russians in the city love Chinese food, she determined, so she opened her first restaurant there in 2000, and now has six.
李丽华的出生地距离中国东北大城市哈尔滨不远，她在当地的一所学校学了俄语。从1990年代末开始，希望创业的李丽华在布拉戈维申斯克看到了机会。她断定，该市的居民喜欢中国食品，于是她于2000年，在那里开了第一家餐厅，现在已经开到了六家。
Later, Ms. Li acquired an 80-year-old Russian company that produces a popular drink called kvass, made from fermented bread, and another Blagoveshchensk factory that fabricates bricks. In 2013, she undertook her biggest endeavor, purchasing a large plot of land in Blagoveshchensk with the plan to build apartments.
后来，李丽华收购了一家拥有80年历史的生产格瓦斯的俄罗斯企业，这种流行的饮料是由发酵的面包制成的。她还收购了布拉戈维申斯克一家生产砖块的工厂。2013年，她做出了最大胆的举动，买下了布拉戈维申斯克的一大片地，计划在那里建造房屋。
“In the past, the Russians’ willingness to forge ties with Chinese was not that strong,” Ms. Li says in her Blagoveshchensk office, decorated with photos of her posing with Russian movie stars. “But now they actively welcome investment from foreigners.”
“过去，俄罗斯人与中国人建立联系的愿望并不强烈，”李丽华在位于布拉戈维申斯克的办公室里说道。“但他们现在非常欢迎外国人的投资。”她的办公室里挂着她与一些俄罗斯电影明星的合照。
That openness has meant little, however, as Ms. Li struggles to complete her apartment buildings.
但在李丽华的房地产项目难以完工之时，这种开放的态度并没有多大意义。
Russian banks, strained by sanctions, are no longer lending her money to continue construction, she says. Now she is searching for new investors to help finance the project — so far, with no success.
她表示，因为制裁而承受巨大压力的俄罗斯银行不再向她发放继续建造项目所需的贷款。她现在正在寻找新投资者为该项目提供资金——目前还没有找到。