BEIJING — President Xi Jinping of China and the Russian leader, Vladimir V. Putin, were unable to announce an agreement on a natural gas deal on Tuesday, despite high expectations that mutual political interests would help finally push through the project.
北京——周二，中国国家主席习近平和俄罗斯领导人弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)未能宣布就一项天然气交易达成协议，虽然有关方面曾高度期待双边政治利益将有利于这个项目的最终完成。
Instead, commercial concerns continued to dominate — specifically, the price of the gas, which China and Russia have been haggling over for nearly a decade. After the meeting between the two leaders, Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, said that talks were continuing.
但是，商业方面的考虑仍然占据主导地位——尤其是天然气价格问题，中俄已经就这个问题争论了将近10年。普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)说，两国领导人会晤之后，相关谈判仍在继续。
According to Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, after meeting Mr. Xi in Shanghai, Mr. Putin said, “I’m glad to be informed that the two sides have made significant progress in the price negotiation of the east route of the natural gas project.”
据中国国家通讯社新华社报道，在上海会见习近平后，普京表示，“得知双方在天然气项目东线的价格协商方面取得了重大进展，我感到很高兴。”
A joint statement said that Russian natural gas supplies would start flowing “as soon as possible,” a phrase used after many previous negotiations between Gazprom and the China National Petroleum Corporation, and an indication that the two sides could not close the gap on price in time for the two leaders to announce the deal at their meeting.
双方在联合声明中表示，俄罗斯的天然气供应将“尽快”开始；在俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）和中国石油天然气集团公司进行多次协商之后，声明仍然使用了这一措辞，表明双方无法及时消除在天然气价格方面的异议，使得两位领导人无法在会晤期间宣布这项交易。
Energy analysts had predicted that there would finally be an agreement, partly because Russia might have been willing to accept China’s hard bargaining in order to diversify Gazprom’s natural gas sales into Asia and away from a stagnant market in Europe.
能源分析人士此前预测双方最终将达成协议，部分是因为俄罗斯可能愿意接受中国的强硬压价，以便增加俄气公司向亚洲销售天然气的渠道，远离不景气的欧洲市场。
Some analysts believed that the countries’ political imperatives were also aligned. By this reasoning, China was willing to help Russia at a time of American and European sanctions over Ukraine, and China was interested in siding with Russia during a tense period in relations between Washington and Beijing.
有些分析人士认为，另一个有利条件是两国的政治诉求一致。根据这种逻辑，鉴于美国和欧洲正在就乌克兰问题对俄罗斯实施制裁，中国将愿意向俄罗斯提供帮助；同时，由于美中关系目前比较紧张，中国也会愿意与俄罗斯站在一边。
“Given the political and commercial catalysts, this is a surprising result for everyone and for Gazprom,” said James Henderson, a senior research fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies in Britain. “There was an expectation that with Putin arriving in China and with the political issues with Europe — that would be the trigger to get it over the line.”
“考虑到这些政治和商业方面的催化剂，这个结果让所有人都感到吃惊，俄气公司也不例外，”牛津能源研究所(Oxford Institute for Energy Studies)的高级研究员詹姆斯·亨德森(James Henderson)说。“人们本来认为，既然普京到访中国，欧洲又存在各种政治问题——这将促使双方突破界限。”
Mr. Putin had also been expected to agree to China’s demands on price in part because of the weak Russian economy. The International Monetary Fund projects Russia’s economic growth in 2014 will be 0.2 percent.
人们还曾预计普京会答应中国的价格要求，部分是因为俄罗斯经济疲软。国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)预计，俄罗斯2014年的经济增幅将为0.2%。
But China was in no hurry to sign a deal, said Shoichi Itoh, a senior analyst at the Institute of Energy Economics in Tokyo. “China already has enough gas from Central Asia, and now Myanmar, until the mid-2020s,” he said. “Unless Russia made a compromise on price, China has no reason to sign it.”
不过，东京能源经济研究所(Institute of Energy Economics)高级分析师伊藤庄一(Shoichi Itoh)表示，中国并不急于签订协议。“中国已经从中亚，现在还有缅甸获得了足够的天然气，可以维持到本世纪20年代中期，”他说，“除非俄罗斯在价格上让步，否则中国没理由签协议。”
In recent weeks Mr. Putin has stressed repeatedly that Russia sees its economic future with China, which is on a trajectory to surpass the United States as the leading global economic power. Mr. Putin’s emphasis on China also is consistent with his conservative nationalist ideology, emphasizing family values and patriotism and criticizing what he views as the West’s moral decadence.
最近几周，普京曾反复强调，俄罗斯认为自己的经济未来与中国密切相关。中国正在慢慢超越美国，有望成为全球头号经济大国。普京对中国的重视也符合他保守的民族主义观念，这种观念强调家庭价值观和爱国主义，抨击他眼中的西方的道德沦丧。
Mr. Putin arrived in Shanghai on Tuesday to attend a conference of Asian countries hosted by China. Mr. Xi seized the opportunity to give Mr. Putin a warm welcome, even though it was not a state visit, by making sure ships from a Russian-Chinese naval exercise in the East China Sea berthed in Shanghai and by meeting Mr. Putin one-on-one at the start of the gathering.
普京于周二抵达上海，出席由中国主办的一次亚洲国家会议。普京此行并非国事访问，但习近平还是抓住这个机会向普京表示了热烈的欢迎，不光确保在东海进行中俄海上演习的船只停泊在上海，还在会议之初就与普京进行了一对一会晤。
After the leaders’ meeting, Xinhua said that Russia and China had proposed establishing a comprehensive energy partnership, and that the two sides would deepen their cooperation in the oil sector.
新华社称，这次领导人会晤结束之后，俄罗斯和中国已提议建立全面能源合作伙伴关系，双方还将深化在石油领域的合作。