The takeover Tuesday of the Iraqi city of Mosul by Sunni extremists who spilled over the Syrian border underscores the clash of world views that is underway in the whole Eastern Mediterranean, which I saw close up during my visit to Kurdistan a few days ago. And it’s not what you think.
周二，越过叙利亚边境的逊尼派极端分子占领了伊拉克城市摩苏尔，此事突显了整个东地中海地区正在上演的世界观冲突。几天前去库尔德斯坦时，我近距离地看到了这种冲突，但它不是你想的那样。
It is not the elected Iraqi government led by Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki versus the Sunni extremists. Maliki is a tyrant who’s governed Iraq as a Shiite chauvinist, just as much as Sunni militants promote Sunni chauvinism. Both are losers. No — the real of war of ideas, the only one worth taking sides in, is the one between the religious extremists (Sunni and Shiite) and the committed environmentalists. Both are actually trying to erase the borders of the Middle East, but for very different reasons.
它不是努里·马利基(Nouri al-Maliki)领导的民选政府与逊尼派极端分子之间的对抗。马利基是一个暴君，一个统治着伊拉克的什叶派沙文主义者，丝毫不逊色于那些传播逊尼派沙文主义的逊尼派武装分子。双方都是输家。我说的不是这个。真正的、唯一值得选择支持哪一方的观念之争是宗教极端分子（包括逊尼派和什叶派在内）和坚定的环保主义者之间的斗争。事实上双方都在尝试消除中东地区的国境线，但初衷却截然不同。
Both the extremists and the environmentalists believe that their visions will triumph only if you imagine that the borders of Syria, Iraq, Turkey and Lebanon don’t exist and you govern the region as a single political system or ecosystem. If the extremists win — and right now they are winning — this region will become a human and ecological disaster zone. If the environmentalists win, it will be because enough people realize that if they don’t learn to share this space, either they will destroy each other or Mother Nature will soon destroy them all.
极端分子和环保主义者都认为自己的愿景会获胜，只要你想象一下，叙利亚、伊拉克、土耳其和黎巴嫩之间的边境线都不存在了，你把这片地区被当做一个统一的政治系统或生态系统来治理。如果极端分子赢了——眼下他们正在取胜——这片地区会变成人道主义和生态的灾区。如果环保主义者获胜，将是因为足够多的人意识到，如果不学着共享这个空间，他们要么会自相毁灭，要么很快被大自然全部毁灭。
While in Kurdistan, I hung out with some of the environmentalists. What an eye-opener! Their view is that the Middle East may be divided into separate states, but it can be managed today to the benefit of the most people only if one thinks of it as a single hydraulic and biological ecosystem that is increasingly threatened by natural and man-made disasters.
在库尔德斯坦时，我和一些环保主义者一起待过一段时间。真是大开眼界。他们的观点是，虽然中东被划分成了独立的国家，但如今只有在被当成一个统一的、受自然和人为灾难威胁越来越大的水利和生物生态系统时，对它的管理才能符合大部分人的利益。
For instance, in the 1990s, Iraq’s Kurdistan region found itself under double sanctions — the United Nation’s sanctions on Saddam Hussein’s Iraq and Saddam’s sanctions on Kurdistan. As a result, the Kurds massively deforested their hillsides to burn wood for energy, wiping out the native Kurdish oak and the food chain that sustained megafauna like the Persian leopard.
比如，上世纪90年代，伊拉克库尔德斯坦地区发现自己受到了双重制裁——联合国对萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)领导下的伊拉克的制裁，以及萨达姆对库尔德斯坦的制裁。结果，库尔德人在山坡上大量砍伐树木，烧木头获取能源，彻底摧毁了库尔德地区特有的橡树植被，以及维系波斯豹等大型动物的食物链。
That’s why, said Azzam Alwash, president of Nature Iraq and winner of the Goldman Environmental Prize for his efforts to save the Iraqi Marshes, the one place where the Persian leopard still survives today is on the Iraq-Iran border, which is still forested with land mines, “so hunters can’t go there.” And while occasionally a leopard tragically steps on a mine, the minefields have so limited human activity that nature has again flourished there. Alwash wants to keep the mines, create safe hiking routes and call it a “peace park.”
伊拉克自然保护协会(Nature Iraq)会长、凭借拯救伊拉克沼泽(Iraqi Marshes)的努力而获戈德曼环境奖(Goldman Environmental Prize)的阿扎姆·阿勒瓦什(Azzam Alwash)说，这就是为什么现今唯一一个有波斯豹存留的地方位于伊拉克和伊朗的边境上，那里依然遍布地雷。“所以狩猎者没法去那里。”尽管偶尔会有波斯豹不幸踩上地雷，但布雷区的人类活动非常有限，因而那里的自然环境再次变得繁茂。阿勒瓦什希望保留那些地雷，开辟安全的徒步路线，并称其为“和平公园”。
The real problem, though, said Alwash, is water, which is becoming so prized that it now costs about twice as much per liter as the leaded gasoline Iraqis use in their cars.
但阿勒瓦什说，真正的问题是水。水变得如此珍贵，以至于现在每升水的价钱，大约是伊拉克人汽车里每升含铅汽油的价钱的两倍。
“The majority of the world think Iraq is oil, desert and war,” he explained. “My Iraq is the snow-capped mountains of Kurdistan and the majestic valleys that take the water and soils of these sacred mountains down to southern Iraq. If we are what we eat, we Iraqis are all made from the minerals of the mountains of Kurdistan — Kurds, Shia, Sunnis, Yazidis, Turkmen and Christians.”
“想到伊拉克时，全世界大部分人想到的都是石油、沙漠和战争，”他解释道。“我眼中的伊拉克是库尔德斯坦白雪皑皑的山峰，是壮观的山谷，这些山谷将那些圣山的水和土壤带往伊拉克南部。如果饮食决定我们的身份，那么我们伊拉克人都是库尔德斯坦这些山的矿物质构成的——库尔德人、什叶派、逊尼派、耶齐德人、土库曼人和基督徒都是。”
The primary headwaters of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers are, indeed, in the largely Kurdish-populated mountains of eastern Turkey and Iraq. However, more droughts, diesel pumping, water needs for farms and a growing population in Turkey, plus rising demands for water by the oil industry in Iraq, have all combined to slow the flow of both great rivers across Syria and Iraq. Turkey has built some 20 large dams and hundreds of small and medium dams to control the flow of the rivers for electricity and irrigation. Turkey also isn’t keen on sharing water with anti-Turkish Kurdish militants in Iraq and Syria, and Turkey now has hostile relations with Syria’s regime.
的确，底格里斯河和幼发拉底河的主要源头位于土耳其和主要生活着库尔德人的伊拉克东部山区。然而，更多干旱、柴油机抽水、农田用水需求和土耳其不断增长的人口，加上伊拉克石油业日益增长的用水需求，共同导致这两条大河在叙利亚和伊拉克境内流速下降。为了控制这两条河的流动，土耳其修建了大约20座大型水坝和数百座中小型水坝，用于发电和灌溉。同时，土耳其不愿与伊拉克和叙利亚境内反对土耳其的库尔德激进分子共享水资源。现在，该国还与叙利亚的政权相互产生了敌意。
The net result is that “agriculture is dying in the land where it was born,” Alwash said of the Iraqi river basin.
最终的结果是，“农业正在它的诞生地衰亡，”阿勒瓦什提及伊拉克境内的两河流域时说道。
As for the extremists, The Financial Times recently ran a map of the Middle East titled “Fighters Without Borders,” with colored arrows showing the flow of Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish fighters back and forth across the whole region, from Lebanon, through Syria and Iraq and down to the Gulf, irrespective of borders. Indeed, the Sunni group that led the seizure of Mosul is called the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. No border.
至于极端分子，《金融时报》(The Financial Times)前不久刊登了一幅题为《无国界武装分子》(Fighters Without Borders)的中东地图，上面的有色箭头表明逊尼派、什叶派和库尔德武装分子在整个地区来回流动的情况，他们不分国界地从黎巴嫩，经由叙利亚和伊拉克直达波斯湾。实际上，领导了占领摩苏尔行动的逊尼派组织就叫做伊拉克与黎凡特伊斯兰国(Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant)。没有国界。
The environmentalists think of this region without borders because only by managing it as an integrated river system and water basin — from Turkey, through Syria and Kurdistan and down to the marshes of southern Iraq — can you sustainably manage its resources for the good of all. The extremists want to erase the borders because only by linking up with their compatriots in Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, Kurdistan and Turkey can each sect or ethnic group hope to escape being ruled by the other.
环保主义者之所以想让这个地区消除边界，是因为只有把它当做一个完整的河流体系与流域——从土耳其开始，经叙利亚和库尔德斯坦，直到伊拉克南部的沼泽地——来管理，你才能对其资源实施可持续管理，为所有人谋福利。极端主义者之所以希望消除边界，是因为只有与他们在黎巴嫩、叙利亚、伊拉克、库尔德斯坦和土耳其的同胞建立联系，每个宗派或民族才有希望逃脱被另一个宗派或民族统治的局面。