Tipped off by a Chinese wildlife protection group that a “shark slaughterhouse” of vulnerable species, including the whale shark, was operating in a town in Zhejiang Province on China’s eastern seaboard, the activists Alex Hofford and Paul Hilton traveled there to take a look.
动物保护人士亚历克斯·霍福德(Alex Hofford)和保罗·希尔顿(Paul Hilton)接到了一家中国野生动物保护组织的线报，称中国东部沿海浙江省的一个小镇上有一家屠杀鲸鲨等易危物种的“鲨鱼屠宰场”，为此，他们前往当地考察情况。
What they saw shook them – whale sharks, the biggest fish in the world, a tropical species the size of a bus (they can grow to 12 meters, or about 40 feet, long) butchered by hand on a slippery floor. The sharks are listed as “vulnerable” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, meaning they are within the “extinction risk” category.
看到的景象使他们震惊。人们在湿滑的地板上动手切开鲸鲨这种世界上体型最大的鱼类，这种有巴士那么大的热带物种（他们可以长至12米）。国际自然保护联盟(International Union for Conservation of Nature)将这种鲨鱼列为“易危”，也就是说它们是有“灭绝危险”的物种。
“It’s a lot of carnage in one place, a lot of damage. It was pretty overwhelming,” said Mr. Hilton, describing the scene at the factory that he and Mr. Hofford visited three times, posing as buyers, in an undercover investigation that began in 2010 and concluded last December. “We walked into the courtyard, and there were shark fins everywhere. I didn’t think it would be so blatant.”
“仅仅这一个地方就有这么多的杀戮、这么多的破坏。这相当令人震惊，”希尔顿描述自己所见到的景象时说。从2010年到去年12月进行的一场暗查中，他和霍福德假扮成买家三次走访了这家工厂。“我们走进院子里，到处都是鱼翅。我没想到他们会如此肆无忌惮。”
Said Mr. Hofford: “It was shocking. You go in there and they were laid out on the floor, all chopped up. You nearly want to vomit. When you have swum with them, it’s very upsetting.”In a report released this week, the two men allege that about 600 whale sharks are being slaughtered annually for their stomach, lips, cartilage, oil and fins at the China Wenzhou Yueqing Marine Organisms Health Protection Foods Company, in Puqi township near Wenzhou.
霍福德说：“这令人震惊。走进那儿，看到它们被排放在地板上，都切成了块，我差点儿就想吐了。对于曾经和他们一起遨游海中的人来说，这十分让人难受。”在本周公布的一份报告中，两人宣称，在温州蒲岐镇上的乐清海洋生物保健品有限公司里，为了取得鱼肚、鱼唇、鱼软骨、鱼油和鱼翅，每年有大约600头鲸鲨被宰杀。
Basking and great white sharks were also being “industrially processed,” said the two members of the nongovernmental organization WildLifeRisk in the report, titled “Planet’s biggest slaughter of whale sharks exposed in Pu Qi, Zhejiang Province, China.”
这两名非政府组织WildLifeRisk的成员在一份题为《中国浙江省蒲岐镇曝光世界最大鲸鲨屠宰场》(Planet’s biggest slaughter of whale sharks exposed in Pu Qi, Zhejiang Province, China)的报告中说，此地也对姥鲨和大白鲨进行“工业化加工”。
All three species are protected in China, which means it is illegal to hunt them without a special permit granted by the government, the report says. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, a quarter of the world’s sharks and rays are threatened with extinction.
这份报告表示，所有这三种鲨鱼都在中国受到保护，也就是说，在没有政府特别许可的情况下对它们进行捕杀是违法的。国际自然保护联盟称，世界上四分之一的鲨鱼和鳐鱼种类都濒临灭绝。
CITES, the intergovernmental Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, lists the whale and basking sharks as Appendix II animals. CITES describes Appendix II animals as “species not necessarily threatened with extinction, but in which trade must be controlled in order to avoid utilization incompatible with their survival.” There is international pressure to put the great white shark on Appendix II as well.
政府间签署的《濒危野生动植物物种国际贸易公约》（Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora，缩写CITES）将鲸鱼和姥鲨列为附录二(Appendix II)动物，即“不一定有灭绝危险，但需要控制其交易，以避免对它的利用与存续产生冲突”。国际上也有人施压，要求将大白鲨列入附录二动物。
Several attempts to contact the company failed to elicit comment. Asked if it was processing whale sharks, a woman who answered the telephone said, “Who said this? I don’t know.” She declined to transfer a call to her manager or to others in the factory and hung up.
多次与乐清公司联系都没有收到任何置评。当我们问到，公司是否加工鲸鲨时，一位接电话的女士说，“谁说的？我不知道。”她拒绝把电话转接给她的经理，或工厂里的其他人，然后就挂断了电话。
The company’s website advertises several different shark products, including shark floss, cartilage and stomach, neatly packaged in colorful bags. It’s not clear what kind of shark they come from.
公司的网站上介绍了数种不同的鲨鱼制品，包括鱼翅、鱼软骨、鱼肚在内的产品都整齐地包装在色彩鲜艳的礼盒里。但并没有写明它们究竟出自哪种鲨鱼。
Fins were generally kept in China and flesh was sold as food, while the skins were sold into the bag industry, the new report’s authors said. However, the oil often was exported overseas, including to the United States and Canada, as health supplements or for the cosmetic industry, they said.
这份新报告的作者表示，鱼翅基本都保留在国内，鱼肉作为食品出售，而鱼皮则被卖给箱包行业。然而他们也说，鱼油会出口海外，要么作为保健品，要么用于化妆品生产，出口的目的地包括美国和加拿大。
A manager at the company, whom they identified as Li Guang, said shark products were being labeled as tilapia, a commonly farmed fish, Mr. Hilton said in an interview.
希尔顿在采访中说，公司里一位叫做李光的经理说，鲨鱼制品都被标为一种常见的养殖鱼——罗非鱼。
May Mei is the China program manager of WildAid, a nongovernmental organization based in the United States and China, whose public representative is the former basketball star Yao Ming and which campaigns to stop people eating shark fin soup. She called the report “pretty shocking” and “convincing.”
梅楣(May Mei)是总部位于美国和中国的非政府组织野生救援(WildAid)的中国项目经理，该组织的公众代言人是前篮球明星姚明，他号召人们不吃鱼翅。梅楣称这份报告“相当令人震惊”，并且“可信”。
“Their photographs, the detail, the amount of time they spent doing it, the specific names they have, it seems very concrete,” said Ms. Mei.
“他们拍下的照片、那些细节、他们所投入的时间，以及他们提到的具体名字，这些都看上去很扎实，”梅楣说。
“Domestic Chinese media are pretty shocked, too,” she said, but added that in terms of overall shark processing, China was not thought to be the biggest location any longer; Indonesia was.
“中国国内媒体也相当震惊，”她说，但也补充道，就总的鲨鱼加工来说，人们认为中国已不再是最大的加工地，而是印度尼西亚。
Still, she said, “Our control system just isn’t good enough. And we have to teach fishermen what’s a protected species and what’s not. Supervision at all levels has to improve, including at customs departments.”
但她也说，“我们的控制系统还不够好。我们必须告诉渔民，哪些是受保护品种，哪些不是。各个环节的监督都必须有所改进，包括在海关部门。”
The sharks are believed to be caught by fishermen along migratory routes from western Australia past the coast of China, Mr. Hilton said. A single whale shark – it’s considered a gentle creature and feeds on plankton – can be sold for around $31,000 at port.
希尔顿说，人们相信，这种鲨鱼是在从澳大利亚西部经过中国沿海的迁徙路径上被渔民捕获的。鲸鲨性情温和，捕食浮游生物。在港口，一条鲸鲨能卖出3.1万美元（约合19万元人民币）。
“Opportunistic fishermen based in fishing ports of all sizes up and down the eastern seaboard of China, from Guangdong Province in the South to Shandong Province in the North, are catching whole whale sharks either as by-catch, or as targeted by-catch (intentionally),” the report said.
报告说，“在中国东部沿海上下大大小小的港口，从南部的广东省到北部的山东省，投机的渔民都会捕捉整条鲸鲨，要么作为副渔获，要么作为定向副渔获（即有意而为）。”
Oil from the livers – basking sharks were particularly fruitful, Mr. Li reportedly told the men – was sent to another processing plant, on China’s Hainan Island, Hainan Jiahua Marine Products Bio-Pharmaceutical Company, they wrote.
李广据说曾对这两人说，鱼肝油会被发往一个位于海南岛的加工厂——海南加华海产生物制药有限公司，姥鲨体内的鱼肝油尤其多，他们写道。
A person who gave her name as Pan Pingman answered the telephone in the Hainan company sales department and denied it was doing anything illegal. She said she had not seen the report.
这家海南公司销售部的一位自称潘萍曼（音译）的女子接了电话，她否认公司涉及任何非法行为。她说自己还没有见到这份报告。
“In Hainan the oil is blended with other types of shark liver oil in preparation for export to the United States and Canada in contravention of the internationally-binding CITES agreement,” the report said. The activists identified one company they said was receiving the product: Omojo, based in Washington State.
报告写道，“在海南，这种油会和其他种类的鲨鱼肝油混合在一起，为出口美国和加拿大做准备，虽然这违反了具有国际约束力的CITES协议。”这两位活动人士指认出一家接收这一产品的公司，它名为Omojo，总部位于华盛顿州。
The company’s website says, “We control quality from end to end, ensuring 100% traceability — and 100% accountability.” Efforts to reach the company were not immediately successful.
这家公司的网站称，“我们由始至终控制产品质量，确保100%可追溯性，以及100%的负责任。”联系该公司的尝试并未取得成功。