HONG KONG — The Chinese government announced that Microsoft faced investigation for possible violations of antimonopoly laws, and confirmed that officials had conducted surprise visits to the company’s offices across the country, a statement released late Tuesday said.
香港——中国政府在周二晚间发的一份声明中宣布，针对微软可能违反反垄断法的问题展开调查，声明证实了官员曾突访该公司在全国各地的办公室。
The announcement, by the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, which enforces China’s antimonopoly law, confirmed reports on Monday that Microsoft was under scrutiny and said “an investigation has been established into Microsoft Corporation on suspicions of monopolistic behavior.”
国家工商行政管理总局负责执行中国的反垄断法，其宣布证实了周一有关微软受到审查的报道，声明还表示：“已对微软公司涉嫌垄断行为立案。”
The agency said it was acting on complaints from businesses that Microsoft’s Windows operating system and Office software products were packaged and sold in ways that violated China’s 2008 antimonopoly law.
国家工商总局表示，调查是因为企业抱怨微软的Windows操作系统和Office办公软件的搭售形式，有可能违反了中国2008年制定的反垄断法。
“Microsoft complies with the laws and regulations of every market in which we operate around the world and we have industry leading monitoring and enforcement mechanisms in place to ensure this,'’ the company said in an email on Wednesday. “Our business practices in China are designed to be compliant with Chinese law.” The announcement made Microsoft the latest foreign high-tech company to come under pressure from China. Officials and state-run media have accused foreign tech companies of dominating the marketplace and abetting intelligence-gathering by the United States government.
“微软遵守其在世界各地的每一个市场中的法律和法规，我们有业界领先的监督和执行机制以确保做到这一点，”公司在周三发出的一封电子邮件中说。“我们在中国的业务实践是按照中国的法律要求设计的。”国家工商总局的宣布，让微软成为受到来自中国压力的外国高技术公司的最新例子。政府官员和国家媒体纷纷指责外国高技术公司占据了中国市场，帮助美国政府收集情报。
President Xi Jinping has re-emphasized longstanding demands that China reduce its reliance on foreign technology suppliers. In June he said that “only if core technologies are in our own hands can we truly hold the initiative in competition and development.”
国家主席习近平再次强调一个长期要求，就是中国要减少对外国技术供应商的依赖。他在6月份说，“只有把核心技术掌握在自己手中，才能真正掌握竞争和发展的主动权。”
Last week, Chinese media reported that the National Development and Reform Commission was investigating possible antitrust violations by Qualcomm, one of the world’s largest makers of the chips used in mobile devices.
上周，中国媒体曾报道，国家发展和改革委员会正在调查高通(Qualcomm)可能违反垄断法的问题，高通是世界上最大的移动设备芯片制造商之一。