Even as the Ford Motor Company has rebounded from the recession to become the most profitable of the big three American automakers, it has lagged in China, the world’s biggest car market.
福特汽车公司(Ford Motor Company)已经走出衰退，开始反弹，成为美国三大汽车制造商中盈利最多的一家，即便如此，在世界最大的汽车市场中国，它的表现仍然不如人意。
Now, that may be changing. Ford said on Wednesday that its sales in China rose 51 percent, to 647,849 vehicles, through the first nine months of this year compared with the similar period last year. Growth accelerated in September, when Ford’s sales rose 61 percent, to 96,111. The gains have come in a Chinese car market that has cooled recently after years of robust growth.
现在，情况可能正在改变。福特周三宣布，和去年同期相比，公司今年前九个月的在华销量上升了51%，共卖出647849辆汽车。9月份，其销量加速上升，升幅为61%，达到96111辆。近期，中国汽车市场已在多年强劲增长之后开始冷却，福特仍然取得了如此业绩。
Although Ford acknowledged that it has a long way to go, the company had been helped by a new product lineup that includes four small sport utility vehicles, the redesigned Focus and the redesigned Mondeo, China’s version of the Fusion sedan, which was introduced this month.
福特承认公司仍有很长的路要走，但其新推出的一条产品线促进了公司的发展，其中包括四款小型运动型多功能车、福特新福克斯(Focus)，以及福特新蒙迪欧(Mondeo)，后者是本月推出的中国版Fushion轿车。
“Ford has been playing catch-up in China with G.M. and VW, but it has been strategic in its battle for more market share,” Namrita Chow, a Shanghai-based senior analyst for IHS Automotive, wrote in an e-mail. “Ford has focused its game on targeting high growth and high volume segments — S.U.V.’s and sedans.”
“福特在中国一直落后于通用和大众，但在争夺更多市场份额的战斗中，福特很有策略，”IHS Automotive驻上海高级分析师纳姆里塔·周(Namrita Chow)在邮件中写道。“福特一直将重点放在销售增长快、销量大的产品种类——也就是SUV及厢式轿车上。”
Ms. Chow said that one bright spot for Ford has been its Focus, a key part of its battle against Volkswagen, the country’s best-selling automaker, for the top midsize sedan. The Focus beat the VW Lavida in August for the first time, and in September sales rose 11 percent to 37,271.
纳姆里塔·周说，福克斯一直是福特公司的一个亮点，在福特和中国销量第一的大众汽车争夺中型轿车首席的战斗中占据重要地位。8月，福克斯的销量首次超过大众的朗逸(Lavida)，9月，其销量增长了11%，达到37271辆。
Another bright spot, Ms. Chow said, has been the Ford Kuga, a midsize sport utility, which was introduced this year and has had promising early sales.
纳姆里塔·周表示，福特的另一个亮点是中型运动型多功能车福特翼虎(Ford Kuga)。福特于今年推出该车型，前期销量很乐观。
For the Asia-Pacific region as a whole, Ford said it had sold 947,555 passenger cars and commercial vehicles, up 31 percent, during the first nine months of the year.
福特称，公司已在整个亚太地区售出947555辆客车和商务车，今年前九个月的销量上升了31%。
“It’s safe to say, I think, that we will be over a million units next month,” David L. Schoch, group vice president and president of Ford Asia Pacific, told reporters at a news conference Wednesday at Ford’s headquarters in Dearborn, Mich.
“我觉得，可以自信地说，我们的总销量会在下月突破一百万，”周三，在密歇根州迪尔伯恩的福特总部召开的新闻发布会上，集团副总裁、福特亚太区总裁戴维·L·肖赫(David L. Schoch)对记者表示。
The growth comes amid heavy investment by Ford. As part of its $4.9 billion investment in China, Ford and its joint venture partners are adding four assembly plants and three powertrain plants by 2015, over what they had in 2011. Ford also said it planned to double its network of 400 passenger-car dealers and introduce 15 vehicles over the next two years.
之所以出现前述增长，是因为福特进行了大量投资。作为它在中国的49亿美元（约合300亿元人民币）投资的一部分，福特及其合资伙伴打算在2011年规模的基础之上进行扩建，在2015年之前增加四个组装厂和三个动力系统工厂。福特还表示，公司计划在未来两年内把由400个客车经销商组成的网络扩大一倍，并推出15款新车。
Mr. Schoch said that Ford hoped to double its market share in China to 5 percent this year compared with the first quarter of last year. Even if it hits that aggressive target, though, Ford will continue to lag competitors whose shares are in double digits.
肖赫称，与去年第一季度相比，福特希望在今年把自己的中国市场份额增加一倍，达到5%。然而，即便达到了这个宏伟的目标，福特还是会继续落后于那些竞争对手，后者的市场份额都达到了两位数。
General Motors, which has about a 15 percent market share in China, expects to sell more than three million vehicles, up 8 to 10 percent over last year. Volkswagen, the market leader, could sell 3.2 million vehicles, up 2.8 percent over last year.
通用汽车(General Motors)在中国所占的市场份额约为15%，它预期今年将售出超过300万台汽车，同比增长8%至10%。市场领军者大众公司可能会售出320万台汽车，同比增长2.8%。
Hyundai of South Korea is expected to sell 1.64 million vehicles, up from 1.4 million last year. Nissan aims to sell 1.25 million.
韩国现代(Hyundai)预计将售出164万台汽车，去年则为140万台。日产(Nissan)的目标是售出125万台。
Ford has a better chance of catching up to Toyota or Honda, which are expected to sell fewer than one million vehicles in China this year.
福特赶超丰田(Toyota)或本田(Honda)的希望比较大，这两家公司今年的在华销量预计都不会超过100万台。
In July, Ford said it recorded its highest pretax profit in the Asia-Pacific region of any quarter. Over all, the region’s second-quarter pretax profit was $177 million, versus a $66 million loss in the similar quarter a year ago.
福特7月表示，公司在亚太地区的税前利润达到了季度最高值。整体来看，该区域第二季度的税前利润为1.77亿美元，去年同一季度则亏损了6600万美元。
The automaker’s conservative strategy could pay off in the long run, especially its decision to focus on small and midsize utility vehicles and midsize sedans, Ms. Chow said.
纳姆里塔·周说，长期看来，这家汽车制造商的保守策略可能会取得成功，尤其是它专注于中小型多用途汽车和中型轿车的决定。
Ford projects that the industry in China, which became the world’s largest auto market in 2009, will grow to 32 million units by 2020, from 21.5 million units now.
中国已于2009年成为世界最大的汽车市场。福特预计，到2020年，中国的汽车行业的产量将由目前的2150万台增加到3200万台。
Most potential buyers in 2020 will come from smaller cities in western China, not in the more developed eastern provinces.
2020年时的大部分潜在买家都将来自中国西部那些较小的城市，而非更加发达的东部省份。
Ford also plans to enter another fast-growing Chinese segment, premium vehicles, with the introduction of the Lincoln brand in the last quarter of 2014. The automaker has selected about a dozen dealers so far.
福特还打算于2014年最后一季度推出林肯(Lincoln)系列，以便打进中国市场另一个增长迅速的部分，亦即高档轿车市场。目前，福特已经挑好了大约十二名经销商。
“We believe that the Lincoln brand has good recognition in China,” Mr. Schoch said. “We’re going to hit the premium segment very, very well.”
“我们认为，林肯系列在中国很受认可，”肖赫说。“我们在高档轿车市场的表现将会非常、非常出色。”