LAWTON, Okla. — Zheng Yue, a young woman from China who is teaching her native language to students in this town on the Oklahoma grasslands, was explaining a vocabulary quiz on a recent morning. Then a student interrupted.
俄克拉荷马州劳顿市——来自中国的青年女教师郑月（Zheng Yue，音译），目前正在这座位于俄克拉荷马草原的城市传授她的母语。最近一天早上，她正在讲评一次词汇测验，一位学生打断了她的话。
“Sorry, I was zoning out,” said the girl, a junior wearing black eye makeup. “What are we supposed to be doing?”
“对不起，我刚才走神了，”这位涂着烟熏妆的初中女生说：“我们现在应该做什么来着？”
Ms. Zheng seemed taken aback but patiently repeated the instructions.
郑月似乎吃了一惊，但还是耐心地重复了一遍刚才的讲解。
“In China,” she said after class, “if you teach the students and they don’t get it, that’s their problem. Here if they don’t get it, you teach it again.”
下课后，她说：“在中国，如果你教学生，而他们没有听懂，那是他们的问题。在这里，如果学生没有理解透彻，老师就得重新教一遍。”
Ms. Zheng, 27, is teaching Chinese in Lawton — and learning a few things herself about American culture — because of a partnership between an agency of China’s Education Ministry and the College Board.
27岁的郑月正在劳顿市教汉语，她自己同时也在学习美国文化。她所参与的，是中国教育部的下属机构与美国大学理事会(College Board)开展的一个合作项目。
China wants to teach the world its language and culture, and Ms. Zheng is one of about 325 guest teachers who have volunteered to work for up to three years in American schools, with their salaries subsidized by the Chinese government. A parallel effort has sent about 2,000 American school administrators to visit China at Beijing’s expense.
中国试图向世界传授其语言和文化，包括郑月在内的大约325位教师志愿者，正在美国学校从事长达3年的教育工作，他们的薪水由中国政府资助。根据中国政府资助的另一个配套计划，大约2000名美国学校管理者已被请到中国参观访问。
Ms. Zheng left her teaching post at a provincial university south of Beijing two years ago to come to Lawton. She is out of her usual element in this city of strip malls and car dealerships surrounded by cattle ranches and an Army base. The culture of American schools is also different.
两年前，郑女士放下北京南城一所普通大学的教职，来到劳顿市。在这个被牧场和军事基地环绕，小型商场和汽车经销店林立的城市中，她时常感到茫然不知所措。美国的校园文化也与中国学校迥然不同。
“My life in high school was torture, just studying, nothing else,” said Ms. Zheng (pronounced djung). “Here students lead more interesting lives,” partly because they are more involved in athletics, choir and other activities.
“我的高中生活简直就是受罪，只是学习，没有其他活动，”郑月说。“美国学生的生活要有意思得多，”部分原因是他们更多地参与体育运动、合唱团和其他活动。
“They party, they drink, they date,” she added. “In China, we study and study and study.”
“他们开派对、饮酒、约会，”她说。“中国学生只是学习、学习、再学习。”
In interviews, several other Chinese teachers said they had some difficulties adjusting to the informality of American schools after working in a country where students leap to attention when a teacher enters the room.
其他几位中国教师在接受采访时表示，在中国，一旦老师进入教室，学生们就会立刻集中注意力，有此经历后，他们有些难以适应美国学校的不拘礼节。
One Chinese teacher who has built a successful language program in Wisconsin, Hongmei Zhao, said a few students sometimes disrupted classes by speaking English so rapidly that she cannot understand them.
一位名叫赵红梅（Hongmei Zhao，音译）的中国老师已经在威斯康星州创立了一个成功的语言课程，她表示，一些学生有时故意把英语说得很快，让她听不明白，用这样的方式来扰乱课堂秩序。
“Then the whole class laughs, maybe because of my accent,” Ms. Zhao said.
“随后，整班学生就哄笑一片，或许是因为我的口音吧，”赵老师说。
Ms. Zheng said none of her students had been disagreeable, and Samantha Weidenmaier, an assistant principal at the school, MacArthur High, said that in Ms. Zheng’s classes “the respect levels are kicked up a notch.”
郑月说，她的学生没有一个是令人讨厌的。麦克阿瑟高中(MacArthur High)助理校长萨曼莎·维德迈尔(Samantha Weidenmaier)表示，在郑老师的课堂上，“学生对老师的尊重程度上了一个新台阶。”
Still, Ms. Zheng said she believed that teachers got little respect in America.
然而，郑月表示，她觉得老师在美国几乎不受尊重。
“This country doesn’t value teachers, and that upsets me,” she said. “Teachers don’t earn much, and this country worships making money. In China, teachers don’t earn a lot either, but it’s a very honorable career.”
“这个国家不重视老师，这一点令我非常郁闷，”她说。“老师挣得不多，而这个国家崇尚赚钱之道。在中国，老师挣得也不多，但起码是一份非常光荣的职业。”
Ms. Zheng said she spent time clearing up misconceptions about China.
郑月说，她经常花时间澄清美国学生对中国的错误观念。
“I want students to know that Chinese people are not crazy,” she said. For instance, one of her students, referring to China’s one-child-per-family population planning policy, asked whether the authorities would kill one of the babies if a Chinese couple were to have twins.
“我想让学生知道，中国人并不是疯子，”她说。比如，有一次在谈及中国的计划生育政策时，有位学生问她，如果中国夫妇生了一对双胞胎，当局会不会扼杀其中一个婴儿。
Some students were astonished to learn that Chinese people used cellphones, she said. Others thought Hong Kong was the capital.
她说，一些学生非常震惊地获悉，中国人竟然也在使用手机。还有些学生认为，香港是中国的首都。
Barry Beauchamp, the Lawton superintendent, said he was thrilled to have Ms. Zheng and two other Chinese instructors working in the district. But he said he believed that the guest teachers were learning the most from the cultural exchange.
劳顿市的教育总监巴里·博尚(Barry Beauchamp)表示，郑女士和其他两位中国教员能来这里工作，让他兴奋不已。但在他看来，从这项文化交流活动中获益最多的，正是这些客座教师。
“Part of them coming here is us indoctrinating them about our great country and our freedoms,” he said. “We’ve seen them go to church and to family reunions, country music concerts, rodeos. So it’s been interesting to see them soak up our culture.”
“了解我们伟大的国家和我们的自由，是他们来这里的目的之一，”他说。“这些中国教师去教堂做礼拜，参加家庭聚会，欣赏乡村音乐演唱会，观看牛仔竞技比赛。看着他们正在吸收我们的文化，真是一件蛮有趣的事情。”
Ms Zheng’s situation is fairly typical of other guest teachers working in American schools: China pays about $13,000 a year toward her salary, and the school district provides her with housing and a $500 monthly stipend.
在赴美工作的客座教师中，郑月的情况颇具代表性：中国政府为她提供大约1.3万美元的年薪，美国学区为她提供住房和每月500美元的津贴。
Some districts pay more, but Lawton is one of the few that lends their guest teachers a car — in Ms. Zheng’s case, a lumbering blue Buick Century once used for drivers’ education.
一些学区提供的津贴更多一些，但劳顿市是少数借给客座教师一部汽车的地区之一。比如，他们向郑月提供了一部笨重的蓝色别克世纪牌(Buick Century)轿车，它原本是一辆教练车。
At MacArthur High, Ms. Zheng teaches three hourlong Chinese classes a day.
在麦克阿瑟高中，郑月每天教三节时长一小时的中文课。
One day last week, Cynthia Thompson, a senior, worked with Ms. Zheng through a dialog in Chinese about attending the Beijing opera, showing considerable fluency. Another student, Raymond Veal, who said he wanted to be a plastic surgeon, stumbled often, confusing the Chinese words for movie theater and Beijing opera.
上周的一天，一位名叫辛西娅·汤普森(Cynthia Thompson)的毕业班学生与郑月讨论听京剧的事情，她的中文说得极其流利。另一位名叫雷蒙德·维尔(Raymond Veal)、立志当整形外科医生的学生，说中文时则结结巴巴的，他搞不清楚“影院”和“京剧”这两个中文词汇的区别。
“I’m not good at memorizing Chinese characters,” Mr. Veal said.
“我不擅长记汉字，”维尔说。
Ms. Zheng has described to her classes the high-pressure schools she attended in the city of Pingdingshan, where students study six days a week from 8 a.m. through a mandatory evening study hall ending at 10 p.m.
郑月向学生描述过她过去在平顶山市上学时经受的巨大压力。那里的学生每周学习6天，早上8点开始上课，直至一节必须要上的晚自习，晚上10点才正式放学。
“No way I could do that,” Mr. Veal said.
“我可做不到那些，”维尔说。
After her morning classes, Ms. Zheng drove west through Lawton in search of lunch, passing a seed elevator. The Buick fought a stiff wind that had kicked up a vast khaki-colored dust cloud. Pulling into a Burger King, she ordered a fish sandwich.
早上的课结束后，郑月开车一路向西，穿过劳顿市寻找吃午饭的地方，途中经过了一架种子提升机(seed elevator)。别克车逆着狂风行驶在一片巨大的土黄色尘埃之中。郑月把车停靠在一家汉堡王快餐店(Burger King)旁，点了一份鱼肉三明治。
“I’ve gained 10 pounds in Oklahoma,” she said.
“来俄克拉荷马州后，我重了10磅，”她说。
Between bites, she recalled how earlier this spring a student brought her newborn to school to show it off to admiring students and teachers.
在就餐间隙，她回忆起今年初春时发生的一件事：一位学生把她新出生的孩子带到学校，向面露赞赏之色的学生和老师炫耀了一番。
“Teenage pregnancy is rare in China,” Ms. Zheng said. “I thought it was nice that when the girl brought in her child, people were happy for her. But I found it shocking, because we think girls should focus on their studies and get into college.”
“青少年怀孕在中国极其罕见，”郑月说。“我觉得这个女孩把她的孩子带到学校，大家为她感到高兴，这挺好的。但我当时非常震惊，因为我们认为女孩子应该把心思放到学习上，要争取上大学。”
That afternoon, Ms. Zheng taught classes at Central Middle School, drilling 22 eighth graders on how to count to 100 in Chinese and explaining some Chinese holidays before turning her back to write a Chinese tongue twister on the board.
那天下午，郑月在中央中学(Central Middle School)上了几堂课，她先训练22位8年级学生（相当于中国的初二——译注）如何用中文从1数到100，接着解释了一些中国节日，然后转身在黑板上书写了一首中文绕口令。
Out of the blue, a girl with long brown hair asked her classmates loudly: “Where’s France at?”
这时，一位留着棕色长发的女孩，突然大声问她的同学：“法国在什么地方？”
“In Europe,” a boy with baggy jeans called out from across the room.
“在欧洲，”一位穿宽松牛仔裤的男生在教室另一端大声回应道。
“France is not in Europe,” another boy said.
“法国不在欧洲，”另一个男孩说。
Ms. Zheng just kept writing Chinese characters on the board.
郑月没有理会，继续写着板书。
“American students don’t know a lot about the outside world,” she said later. “Mostly just what they see here.”
“美国学生对外面的世界了解不多，”她后来说。“基本上他们只想了解眼前的事物。”
Ms. Zheng says she is hoping to do her part by teaching them more than how to write characters.
郑月说，她希望给学生们传授更多知识，而不仅仅是教他们写汉字，以期更出色地做好这份工作。
“I want my students to have a sweet, sweet memory of taking Chinese,” she said. “They won’t remember a lot of words, but I want them to remember the beauty of the language and the culture.”
“我希望我的学生们拥有一段非常甜蜜的学习中文的记忆，”她说。“这些美国学生能够记住的词汇不会很多，但我想让他们记住中国的语言和文化之美。”