The German automobile giant Daimler has become the latest multinational company to bear the brunt of a Chinese regulatory investigation, confirming on Tuesday that officials from an agency that enforces antimonopoly and pricing rules has searched its Shanghai offices.
德国汽车巨擘戴姆勒公司(Daimler)成为又一家遭中国监管机构调查的跨国企业。该公司周二证实，一家负责执行反垄断和定价规定的机构搜查了它的上海办公室。
The visit to the office on Monday came just a day after Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, said it would cut the price of Mercedes-Benz repair parts sold in China by an average of 15 percent “in response to antimonopoly investigations into the automobile industry” by a Chinese agency, the National Development and Reform Commission.
上述机构是在周一造访戴姆勒办公室的。此前一天，戴姆勒宣布，为配合中国的国家发改委“对汽车行业进行的反垄断调查”，该公司生产的梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)车型的维修配件，在中国的销售价格将平均下降15%。
A Daimler spokesman in Germany confirmed that the Shanghai offices had been searched and said that the company was cooperating with officials. He said Daimler would not comment further on the continuing investigation and declined to give his name, citing company rules.
戴姆勒在德国的一名发言人证实，公司的上海办公室遭到了搜查，并表示公司正在配合官方的工作。他说，戴姆勒不会对仍在进行的调查发表更多评论，并以公司规定为由，拒绝透露自己的姓名。
Separately, Senol Bayrak, a spokesman for Daimler Greater China in Beijing, said by email: “We confirm that we are assisting the authorities in their investigation.” He added: “We are unable to comment further on what is an ongoing matter.”
另一方面，戴姆勒大中华区投资有限公司在北京的发言人赛诺尔·巴伊拉克(Senol Bayrak)通过电子邮件表示：“我们的确正在协助有关部门开展调查。”他接着说：“我们无法对正在发生的事情做更多评论。”
Daimler joins a succession of foreign multinational companies that have come under intensifying pressure over pricing from Chinese government regulators, often wielding an antimonopoly law passed in 2008 to question whether the companies overcharge businesses and consumers for goods sold at a lower cost in other markets.
包括戴姆勒在内，中国的监管部门已经在价格方面对一连串外资跨国公司施加了越来越大的压力。这些部门通常以2008年颁布的反垄断法为依据，调查这些企业对中国企业和消费者设定的价格是否高于其他市场。
Last week, state investigators descended on Microsoft offices in four Chinese cities, where they questioned members of the staff and took away sales records and other documents. This year, Qualcomm, a United States microchip maker, has been the target of a Chinese antimonopoly investigation. Foreign pharmaceutical makers have also come under intense scrutiny, and members of the staff of GlaxoSmithKline, a British company, have been detained and accused of bribing hospital staff members to prescribe their drugs.
上周，政府调查人员突袭微软(Microsoft)在中国四个城市的办公室，并对员工进行询问，带走销售记录及其他文件。今年，美国微芯片制造商高通公司(Qualcomm)成为中国反垄断调查的目标。外国制药公司也遭到严厉审查，英国葛兰素史克(GlaxoSmithKline)公司的员工遭到拘留，被控向医院员工行贿，以增加药品销量。
Companies face the additional complication that several Chinese agencies claim a role in enforcing rules against unlawful monopolies and price-fixing, creating potential for confusion and rivalry. Microsoft is under investigation by the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, separate from the National Development and Reform Commission, which Mr. Bayrak said had visited Daimler.
这些公司还面临另外一个问题，几家中国机构执行反非法垄断和操纵价格的规定，可能会引发混乱和竞争。微软正在接受国家工商行政管理总局的调查，巴伊拉克称该机构也曾到访戴姆勒的办公室。该机构与国家发改委是两个独立的机构。
China has become a prized market for foreign automakers, and the pressure on their pricing there could hurt earnings. German makers, in particular, have a lucrative position selling higher-end cars, and any problems in China can be a serious setback for Daimler, which has fought for market share with Audi and BMW. China is the third-largest market for Mercedes-Benz vehicles, after the United States and Germany, and it is the fastest-growing of the three. In the second quarter, Mercedes sold 68,000 vehicles in China, a 13 percent increase from a year earlier.
中国已经成为外国汽车制造商的重要市场，定价压力可能会影响它们的收益。特别是德国制造商，它们的高端车业务获利颇多，中国市场出现的任何问题都会对戴姆勒造成严重挫折，戴姆勒正在与奥迪(Audi)和宝马(BMW)抢夺市场份额。中国是继美国、德国之后的第三大梅赛德斯-奔驰车市场。在第二季度，奔驰在中国的销售量达到了6.8万辆，同比增长13%。