First, it was the Japanese. Moneymen from Tokyo blew into the United States to buy famous pieces of the American landscape, from Rockefeller Center in New York to the Pebble Beach Golf Links in California.
最开始，是日本人这么做：来自的东京的投资者涌入美国，购买从纽约洛克菲勒中心到加利福尼亚圆石滩高尔夫球场的美国知名物业。
Now, about a quarter-century later, another set of deep-pocketed foreign buyers is pushing ever deeper into United States real estate: the Chinese.
现在，大约四分之一个世纪之后，另一批财大气粗的海外买主正在更加深入地进军美国房地产市场。他们来自中国。
Undaunted by Japan’s real estate misadventures in the 1980s — some Japanese investors wildly overpaid for United States property, and Japan eventually suffered one of the biggest property market collapses in history — Chinese investors are fanning out in the United States.
中国投资者们不怕日本在20世纪80年代遭遇的房地产挫败——一些日本投资者以远高于合理价位的价格购入美国物业，而且日本最终遭遇了历史上最大的房地产市场崩溃之一——正在美国房地产市场上四面出击。
What began with a few isolated purchases two years ago has become a hunt for trophy properties and billion-dollar deals. So far, the kind of fears that arose in the 1980s — unfounded talk that Japan was “buying up” America — have not surfaced this time. To the contrary, the Chinese, or at least their money, are being welcomed, even celebrated.
始于两年前的零星交易现在已经变成了一场对顶级、名贵地产项目的追逐，交易规模也已经达到了10亿美元级别。出现在20世纪80年代的那种恐惧——毫无根据的说法称日本“买下了”美国 ——现在还没有出现。恰恰相反，中国人的到来，或者至少是他们的钱的到来，受到了美国人的欢迎，甚至很多人为此击掌相庆。
Some caution that China could quickly retreat, as Japan did, if its economy worsens. Signs of economic weakness in China have been mounting, and the country’s financial system has recently come under stress. Those concerns could dissipate if Beijing steps in to ease strains in the nation’s banking industry and to spur growth, but many economists see real and growing dangers within China’s economy.
有些人持谨慎态度，认为中国的经济状况如果恶化，中国买家可能会迅速撤离，就像日本以前那样。中国经济疲软的迹象正在增多，而且中国的金融系统最近也开始遭受压力。如果中国政府出手，缓解中国银行业遭受的压力，刺激经济增长，这些担忧就会消散，但是很多经济学家还是认为，中国经济确实存在危险，而且危险还在不断加剧。
And yet in recent weeks, several big deals in New York City have set real estate circles abuzz. Zhang Xin, a Chinese business magnate and chief executive of the largest commercial real estate developer in Beijing, joined forces with the Safra family of Brazil to buy a large piece of the General Motors Building in Midtown. Dalian Wanda Group, a big Chinese developer, said it intended to build a luxury hotel in Manhattan. (Wanda is also planning to build a hotel in London.)
然而在最近几周，发生在纽约市的几笔大交易已经让房地产界议论纷纷。中国商业巨头、北京最大的商业地产开发公司的行政总裁张欣跟巴西的萨夫拉(Safra)家族联手，收购了纽约市中心通用汽车大厦的大量股权。中国大型开发商大连万达集团(Dalian Wanda Group)也表示，有意在曼哈顿修建一座豪华酒店（万达还计划在伦敦修建一座酒店）。
The deals go beyond shimmering glass-and-steel towers: Chinese and Hong Kong investors have also become the second-largest foreign buyers of United States homes, after the Canadians.
中国人购买的物业不仅限于闪闪发光的现代摩天大楼：中国和香港投资者已经成为美国住宅的第二大外国买主，仅次于加拿大人。
“They’re just getting started,” said Steve Collins, the international director at Jones Lang LaSalle Capital, a real estate services firm that recently held conferences for potential buyers in Shanghai and Beijing. “There’s just been some incredible wealth creation there.”
“他们才刚刚开始。”史蒂夫·柯林斯(Steve Collins)说，“有些中国人富得令人难以置信。”他是房地产服务公司仲量联行资本(Jones Lang LaSalle Capital)的国际业务主管，最近该公司在上海和北京为潜在买主举办了推介会。
For the moment, the Chinese government is encouraging the investments and even helping to finance them. The state-owned Bank of China has become the largest foreign lender in commercial real estate deals in the United States, replacing big European banks. Beijing is eager to diversify its investments. The Chinese government owns more than $1 trillion of United States Treasury securities, but those investments generate little return given how low interest rates are.
目前，中国政府正在鼓励这些投资，甚至还为它们提供资金帮助。政府控股的中国银行已经取代欧洲大型银行，成了美国商业房地产交易领域最大的外国贷款机构。中国政府热衷于分散投资，它握有1万多亿美元的美国国债，但是由于利率太低，这些投资产生的回报非常少。
“The political support for investments beyond U.S. Treasuries has increased significantly over the last couple of years and that has encouraged Chinese investors to look at real estate in big, stable markets like New York or other big cities,” said Thilo Hanemann, a research director the Rhodium Group, a firm that analyzes global business and economic trends.
“过去几年，中国政府对美国国债以外投资的支持力度明显加大，在这样的鼓励下，中国投资者把目光放到了一些海外市场的房地产上，这些市场规模比较大，而且稳定，比如纽约或其他大城市。”蒂洛·赫恩曼(Thilo Hanemann)说，他是全球商业和经济趋势分析公司荣鼎集团(Rhodium Group)的一名研究主管。
The Chinese aren’t limiting themselves to megadeals. Some purchases have been relatively small by the standards of commercial real estate. Ms. Zhang, who is the chief executive of SOHO China and one of the richest women in the world, paid about $600 million in 2011 for a 49 percent stake in the Park Avenue Plaza, a Midtown Manhattan skyscraper. That same year, the real estate arm of the HNA Group, a Chinese airline company, saved an office building at 1180 Sixth Avenue from foreclosure for $265 million. HNA also bought the boutique Cassa Hotel in Times Square.
中国人不只是做大交易。以商业地产的标准来看，一些交易的规模相对较小。SOHO中国的行政总裁张欣是世界上最富有的女性之一，2011年，她耗资约6亿美元，购买了曼哈顿摩天大楼公园大道广场(Park Avenue Plaza)49％的股权。同年，中国的一家航空公司海航集团(HNA Group)斥资2.65亿美元，帮助第六大道1180号的一座办公楼避免被止赎。海航还购买了纽约时报广场(Times Square)一家名为卡萨酒店(Cassa Hotel)的精品酒店。
Chinese investors or firms have also bought large hotels in California, including the Sheraton Universal in Universal City; the Crowne Plaza in Burlingame, near the San Francisco airport; and the Hilton Ontario in Ontario. They have also purchased a riverfront parcel in Toledo, Ohio, and, earlier this year, an office building in Morristown, N.J.
中国企业和投资者还在加利福尼亚收购了一些大型酒店，其中有环球影城的喜来登环球(Sheraton Universal)，位于旧金山机场附近伯灵格姆的皇冠假日酒店(Crowne Plaza)，以及安大略的希尔顿安大略酒店(Hilton Ontario) 。他们还在俄亥俄州托莱多购买了一处河滨地块，而且今年早些时候，他们在新泽西州莫利斯顿也购买了一座办公楼。
Chinese firms and investors are also betting that the potential returns in American commercial property markets will be higher than in other areas of the world. The market for office, industrial and retail property appears to have bottomed out. Office vacancy rates have fallen and rent prices have stabilized amid signs of economic improvement. And while competition is heating up — three Manhattan office buildings have sold for more than $1 billion so far this year — many of the big bidders and lenders from Europe have pulled back as their home economies struggle.
同时，中国企业和投资者正在下注，认为美国商业房地产市场的潜在回报率将高于世界其他地区。目前，办公楼、工业和零售物业市场似乎已经见底。办公楼空置率下降，租金价格走稳，还有其他一些迹象显示，美国经济环境在改善。虽然竞争日趋白热化——今年到现在为止，曼哈顿已经有三座办公楼以高于10亿美元的价格成交——但随着欧洲经济呈现颓势，很多来自欧洲的大竞标者和贷款机构已经撤离。
In addition to buying commercial real estate, China is emerging as a powerful force in financing other players’ deals. In particular, the Bank of China, China’s premier lender and one of the country’s four major state-run banks, has assumed an increasingly large role. “A few years ago, the U.S. branches of German banks were the top three or four foreign lenders for commercial property deals, now it’s the Bank of China,” said Matthew Anderson, a managing director at Trepp L.L.C., a data and analytics firm that tracks bank lending.
除了购买商业地产之外，在为其他买主的交易提供融资服务上，中国也正在成为一股强大力量。特别是中国银行，中国的顶级贷款机构及四大国有银行之一，它发挥的作用正在日益增大。“几年前，在商业物业交易领域，最大的三到四个外国贷款机构是德国一些银行的美国分行，但现在，名列前茅的是中国银行，”Trepp LLC公司的董事总经理马修·安德森(Matthew Anderson)说。这是一家追踪银行贷款的数据分析公司。
Chinese development firms are also lining up large United States commercial real estate projects. In February, China Vanke, a development company, made its first North American investment when it formed a joint venture with Tishman Speyer to build luxury condominiums in San Francisco. Another Chinese developer has agreed to provide funding for a $1.5 billion project that will transform 65 industrial acres in Oakland, Calif., into a waterfront neighborhood with 3,100 homes.
中国的房地产开发公司也纷纷参与美国大型商业地产项目。今年2月，中国开发商万科(China Vanke)首次在北美投资，它和铁狮门公司(Tishman Speyer)组建了一家合资企业，在旧金山修建豪华公寓。另一家中国开发商已经同意投资一个15亿美元的项目，计划把加利福尼亚州奥克兰市一处65英亩的工业区改建成可以容纳3100户人家的海滨居民区。
And the Chinese have even arrived in hipster central: Williamsburg, Brooklyn. A Chinese firm has purchased a site and plans to build a 216-unit condo project there.
中国人甚至挺进了时髦的中心地带：布鲁克林区的威廉斯堡。一家中国公司已经在那里购买了地皮，计划修建一个包含216套住房的公寓项目。
Some analysts say the Chinese money flowing directly into real estate pales in comparison with the money that is moving through private investments or real estate funds.
一些分析师说，通过私人投资或房地产基金流入美国房地产市场的中国资金，令该市场中的中国直接投资相形见绌。
In recent years, China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange, which manages foreign exchange reserves, agreed to invest $500 million in a $13 billion real estate fund overseen by the Blackstone Group, a Wall Street investment firm.
近年，负责管理外汇储备的中国国家外汇管理局同意向一个130亿美元的房地产基金投资5亿美元。该基金由华尔街投资公司黑石集团(Blackstone Group)监管。
China’s main sovereign wealth fund, the China Investment Corporation, has taken direct stakes in properties but has also invested more billions of dollars in real estate funds overseen by large private investment funds.
中国投资有限责任公司(China Investment Corporation)是该国最重要的主权财富基金，它不仅直接参与物业投资，而且还向一些大型私人投资基金公司旗下的房地产基金投资了数十亿美元。
“The overwhelming majority of Chinese capital is getting into the commercial property market through third parties,” said Dan Fasulo, a managing director at Real Capital Analytics. “They’re getting billions of dollars into the system almost unnoticed.”
“绝大多数中国资本都是通过第三方渠道进入商业地产市场的。”房地产资本分析公司(Real Capital Analytics)的董事总经理丹·法苏洛(Dan Fasulo)说，“他们正在向美国房地产市场注入数以十亿计的美元，而且甚少有人注意到这一点。”