HONG KONG — China became on Wednesday the latest country to embrace economic stimulus measures, as its central bank reportedly agreed to lend 100 billion renminbi apiece, or $16.2 billion, to each of the country’s five main banks.
香港——周三，中国成为最近一个采取经济刺激措施的国家；据报道，中国央行同意向国内五大银行每家发放1000亿人民币（约合162亿美元）贷款。
The decision to inject a total of $81 billion into the banking system came as the Chinese economy, like many economies in Europe, seemed to slow somewhat over the summer, although still expanding faster than most countries around the world. Industrial production, retail sales, imports and foreign direct investment have all slackened in China, even as exports are booming.
尽管中国经济扩张速度仍远高于世界上其他国家，但此次向银行系统注资高达810亿美元决定出台之际，中国经济增速，和许多欧洲经济体一样，看起来在今夏已逐渐放缓。虽然中国出口依旧兴旺，但工业总产值，零售总额，进口以及国外直接投资等各项指标都已全面疲软。
Stock markets in much of Asia surged on Wednesday morning in response to the action by the central bank, the People’s Bank of China. The policy shift was first reported by Sina.com, a Chinese website, and two Chinese financiers said that it appeared to be true, although neither had spoken directly yet to central bank leaders about the issue. The central bank had no immediate comment.
回应中国央行，即中国人民银行的此次操作，亚洲股市大盘周三早晨飘红。央行此次政策转向，最早由新浪网报道，两名中国金融家称此事看似属实，但两人均未与央行领导就此事进行沟通。中国央行尚未对此置评。
“I think it’s believable; the economy seems to need stimulus,” one of the financiers said. Both insisted on anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss government actions.
“我认为是可信的；经济现在看起来需要刺激，”一名金融家说。他们二人均因未获授权谈论政府措施而要求匿名。
Share prices climbed about 1 percent in early trading in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Manila and Seoul, South Korea, while the Tokyo market was also up slightly. But the Shanghai stock market was flat, and shares fell 0.7 percent in Shenzhen, just across the border from Hong Kong, as investors appeared to worry about whether the central bank’s move signaled real difficulties for the economy.
台湾、香港、马尼拉和韩国首尔的股市开盘后攀升1%。日本股市也小幅上扬。但由于投资者担忧央行此次注资意味着中国经济已面临实际困难，A股整体持平，紧邻香港的B股市场下跌0.7%。
China’s five biggest banks, which account for at least three-fifths of the market by various measures, are the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Agricultural Bank of China, Bank of China and Bank of Communications.
中国的五大银行，即中国工商银行，中国建设银行，中国农业银行，中国银行和交通银行。从各项指标衡量，它们所占国内市场份额都在五分之三以上。
The Chinese action comes a day before the European Central Bank begins a program to provide banks with extremely low-rate loans, provided that the banks promptly relend the money in the private sector. The European plan also bars banks from lending the money to households for home purchases.
就在中国央行此次操作的第二天，欧洲央行也将启动刺激计划，开始向银行提供超低息贷款，条件是银行将款项迅速向私营领域发放。欧洲央行的刺激计划还将限制银行向家庭发放购房贷款。
Like the European approach, China’s measure is narrowly targeted. The central bank is providing three-month loans to the major banks, all of which are controlled by the government and closely regulated to provide loans to favored sectors, like high technology industries.
和欧洲的刺激措施一样，中国央行此次放款目标也十分有限。央行向这几家被严格监管的大型国有银行提供三个月短期贷款，银行再将款项贷给一些指定领域，如高科技行业。