Chinese officials are investigating the Swiss food packaging giant Tetra Pak for “abusing its market dominance” in China, the latest in a growing number of multinational companies to come under regulatory scrutiny.
中国官方正在对瑞士食品包装巨头利乐公司(Tetra Pak)是否在中国“滥用市场支配地位”进行调查，利乐是越来越多受到监管审查的跨国公司中的最新一家。
China’s State Administration of Industry and Commerce said on its Web site Friday that it had started an investigation, but it offered few details about why it was looking into Tetra Pak, which makes food and beverage packages.
中国工商行政管理总局周五在其网站上称，已开始进行调查，但没有说明针对食品饮品包装生产商利乐公司开启调查的具体原因是什么。
Christopher Huntley, a Tetra Pak spokesman, said Friday that this was the first time the government had formally investigated the company on antitrust grounds. Company executives were questioned several years ago about the matter and responded, he said. In 2005, a statement on the commerce agency’s Web site complained about Tetra Pak’s “monopoly” in the Chinese market and said it could take action.
利乐公司发言人克里斯托弗·亨特利(Christopher Huntley)周五称，这是中国政府首次以反垄断为由对该公司做正式调查。他说，该公司高管在几年前曾被询问过，他们作出过回答。2005年工商行政管理总局的网站曾发布一则声明，指责利乐公司在中国市场上的“垄断”行为，并称可能会采取行动。
The Tetra Pak announcement came just days after the National Development and Reform Commission, the powerful state planning agency, said it was investigating international producers of infant milk formula sold in China on suspicion of price-fixing and anticompetitive behavior.
在针对利乐公司的公告发布的几天前，中国国家发改委称正在对在中国市场上销售的婴儿奶粉的国际制造商涉嫌操控价格以及反竞争行为进行调查。
The commission also said that it was reviewing the production and import costs of scores of Chinese and international drug makers operating in China, including some of the world’s biggest pharmaceutical companies. The review includes joint ventures set up by global drug companies like GlaxoSmithKline, Merck and Novartis.
发改委还称，正在对几十家在中国境内经营的中国和国际制药公司的生产和进口成本进行调查，其中包括一些世界上最大的制药公司。调查对象包括像葛兰素史克(GlaxoSmithKline)、默克(Merck)和诺华公司(Novartis)这些国际制药公司在中国成立的合资企业。
“It is mandatory for pharmaceutical companies in China to report to the government pricing data as part of a routine process,” a spokesman for Sandoz China, a division of Novartis, said in a statement on Friday. “Sandoz China will cooperate with the authority to provide required information.”
诺华公司的分公司山德士中国(Sandoz China)的发言人周五在一则声明中表示，“中国的制药公司必须向政府报告其价格数据，这是常规程序的一部分。山德士中国将会和官方合作，向其提供所要求的信息。”
Analysts say it is not unusual for the government to investigate the pricing practices of Chinese and international companies. Although most prices in China are set by market forces, the government maintains control over large parts of the economy, including energy and telecommunications prices, and likes to exert its influence.
分析人士称，中国政府对中国和国际公司的定价方式进行调查并非不同寻常。虽然在中国大部分价格由市场决定，但政府保留着对很大部分经济的控制权，比如能源、电信方面的价格，而且喜欢施加自己的影响力。
The government closely monitors are health care costs, including the prices of certain types of drugs. With costs skyrocketing, the price of infant milk formula has recently become a growing concern in China, partly because of worries about the quality and safety of domestic brands.
受政府密切监管的有医疗成本，包括某些药品的价格。随着婴儿奶粉价格飙升，最近其价格成为中国越来越担心的事情，这部分是由于担心国内品牌的质量和安全所造成的。
In response to the government investigation, several international brands, including Nestlé and Danone, have announced price cuts — as much as 20 percent — on infant milk formula sold in China.
作为对政府调查的响应，包括雀巢(Nestlé)和达能(Danone)公司在内的几大国际品牌已宣布降低在中国销售的婴儿奶粉的价格，降价最高达20%。
Separately, the police in the central Chinese city of Changsha said this week that they were investigating executives at the British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline on suspicion of “economic crimes.” A report in The Wall Street Journal last month said a whistle-blower had sent information to the company’s board of directors claiming that for years the China sales staff at GlaxoSmithKline had engaged in “widespread bribery of doctors to prescribe drugs.”
此外，中国中部城市长沙市警方本周称，他们正在对英国制药巨头葛兰素史克公司高管涉嫌“经济犯罪”进行调查。上月《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)称，一名内部举报者已将信息发给该公司董事会，称多年来葛兰素史克在中国的销售人参与了“大范围贿赂医生的行动，以换取医生开药”。
A spokesman for Glaxo said the company had conducted an internal investigation and found no evidence of bribery or corruption in the China operation. The company said it was cooperating with the Chinese government but was unclear as to the nature of the investigation.
葛兰素公司发言人称，公司已经进行了一次内部调查，没有发现其在中国的经营有贿赂或腐败行为的证据。该公司称其在与中国政府合作，但并不清楚这次调查的性质。