SÃO PAULO, Brazil — In this country’s top soccer league, the Brasileirão, team officials are used to the phone calls. They expect them. Agents and executives, middlemen and managers, all of them looking to make a deal in the game’s greatest shopping mall.
巴西圣保罗——在该国顶级的足球联赛巴西甲级联赛(Brasileirão)中，球队官员们已经习惯了接电话，也在期待电话铃响起。经纪人和高管、中间人和主帅，所有人都想在这项运动最大的购物商场中做上一笔交易。
But where once the interest regularly came from Madrid or Milan, these days the voice on the other end of the line, teams say, is more likely to be calling from Beijing or Shanghai. And increasingly, the Chinese suitors are looking to buy only the best.
过去挖角的兴趣通常来自马德里或米兰，然而这里的各家球队表示，近些日子里，电话另一边的声音更有可能来自北京或上海。而且越来越多地，中国的买家们只想买最好的球员。
Last year, teams from China’s Super League bought perhaps the Brasileirão’s two best players. Last month, Chinese clubs plucked four key players from the reigning champion, Corinthians, and a top striker from São Paulo.
去年，中国超级联赛的球队购买了巴西甲级联赛两名堪称最出色的球员。上个月，中国的俱乐部从联赛卫冕冠军科林蒂安足球俱乐部(Corinthians)挖走了四名关键球员，还从圣保罗足球俱乐部(São Paulo)挖走了一名顶级前锋。
“Brazil needs to learn to live with this,” said Thiago Scuro, the sporting director of Cruzeiro, which won the Brazilian championship in 2013 and 2014. “We were always a target, but what’s changed is the big clubs in Europe are taking very young players, to have time to develop them there. But China is signing the star players in their 20s.
“巴西需要学着适应这种情况，”克鲁塞罗足球俱乐部(Cruzeiro)的竞技主管蒂亚戈·斯库洛(Thiago Scuro)说。该队在2013年和2014年连续赢得巴西联赛冠军。“我们过去一直是挖角的目标，但是现在有一点改变了，那就是欧洲的大俱乐部在招收很年轻的球员，为的是花时间自己栽培，而中国则是在签下二十几岁的明星球员。”
“We cannot fight this, as it’s economics, not football.”
“我们没法对抗这种情况，因为这事关经济，和足球无关。”
Brazil has always been a net exporter of soccer talent; no country sends more professional players abroad. But Brazil’s slumping economy and the chronic financial issues plaguing domestic clubs, where it is not uncommon for players to go unpaid for months, have some regarding China’s current shopping spree as a worrisome asset-stripping of the Brazilian game.
巴西一直是足球人才的净出口国，没有任何其他国家将这么多的职业球员送出国。然而，本国俱乐部长期受财政问题困扰，球员数月拿不到薪水的情况并不罕见，再加上巴西经济在下滑，一些人将当前中国的球员大采购看作对巴西足球令人担忧的资产掠夺。
The tale of Corinthians is the latest example. Such was the team’s dominance last season — Corinthians won the league by 12 points — that the feeling was a South American title and a return to a World Club Cup was a possibility this year. But that was before the team lost eight players.
科林蒂安俱乐部的遭遇就是最近的一个例子。这支球队上个赛季一枝独秀——以高出第二名12个积分的成绩赢得联赛冠军——让人感觉今年有望在南美折桂并重返世界俱乐部杯(World Club Cup)赛事，但这是在球队失去八名球员之前。
The four highest transfer fees came from China, for a combined $24.5 million. Renato Augusto and Ralf moved to Beijing Guoan; center back Gil (who is making inroads into the national team) joined Shandong Luneng Taishan; and the experienced midfielder Jádson headed to second-division side Tianjin Quanjian. (Chasing promotion to the top flight, Tianjin also snapped up 23-year-old Santos star Geuvânio for $12 million.)
四笔最高的转会费来自中国，合计2450万美元。雷纳托·奥古斯托(Renato Augusto) 和拉尔夫(Ralf)转到了北京国安队；中后卫吉尔(Gil)（他正在进军国家队）加入了山东鲁能泰山队；而经验丰富的中场球员贾德森(Jádson)去了甲级球队天津权健。（为了升到中超，天津权健还以1200万美元抢走了23岁的桑托斯队(Santos)球星格乌瓦尼奥[Geuvânio] ）。
“It’s not a surprise to lose players when you are champions, but the big surprise was they went to China,” said Edu, who starred in Europe with Arsenal and Valencia during his playing days and is now Corinthians’ sporting director. “It’s not so frustrating. It’s the market. You just have to replace them.”
“当你是冠军球队时，失去球员并不奇怪，但他们都去了中国，这就很奇怪了，”埃杜(Edu)说。他踢球的时候曾在欧洲的阿森纳队(Arsenal)和瓦伦西亚队(Valencia)效力，现在是科林蒂安的竞技主管。“也不是说多么让人沮丧，市场便是这样。就是得替换这些球员。”
Yet Chinese soccer’s taste for Brazilians shows no sign of slowing. Last week, Chelsea accepted a $35 million offer for the Brazilian midfielder Ramires from Jiangsu Suning, which had earlier made a failed bid for the Milan striker Luiz Adriano. Moves like those, and the bulk acquisitions of younger players from Brazilian clubs, have soccer officials here concerned about what the money-driven deals could one day mean for the future of Brazil’s national team. Ramires, 28, was a starter at the last World Cup, and while he had fallen out of favor recently, exports like Gil, 28, and Renato Augusto, 27, were thought by some to be part of the Seleção’s future after their recent resurgence at Corinthians.
然而中国人对巴西球员的胃口并没有放缓的迹象。上周，切尔西俱乐部(Chelsea)接受了江苏苏宁队提出的以3500万美元购买巴西中场球员拉米雷斯(Ramires)的报价。江苏苏宁之前有意购买AC米兰队的射手路易斯·阿德里亚诺(Luiz Adriano)，但以失败告终。这样的举动，加上巴西球会大批年轻球员遭到收购，让巴西的足球官员担忧，金钱驱动的交易终有一天会对巴西国家队意味着什么。28岁的拉米雷斯是上一届世界杯的首发球员。虽然他最近已不再受到国家队垂青，但一些人认为，像28岁的吉尔、27岁的雷纳托·奥古斯托这样的出口球员，近期在科林蒂安东山再起后，原本会是国家队未来的组成部分。
“With the crisis here, the prices they are offering, we can’t compete with that,” Edu said of the recent sales. “But in terms of a player’s career, they are going for money, not the status, and for me, that would have made me think twice as it could get in the way of playing for Brazil.”
“巴西出现危机，对方又出这样的价钱，我们无法与之竞争，”埃杜这样评价最近的几笔转会交易。“但就选手个人的职业发展来说，他们是在追逐金钱，而不是地位，对这种事，我是会三思而行的，因为有可能会妨碍球员为巴西踢球。”
Chinese clubs might not release players for national team play except in the mandatory official windows, Edu said, before adding: “It’s a personal decision, but you need to balance it. And if you’re good enough and have the chance to play for Brazil, nothing should get in the way.”
埃杜表示，除了强制性的官方赛期，中国俱乐部可能不会放这些球员回去参加巴西国家队的比赛。他还说：“这是个人决策，但你需要权衡。如果你技术够好，又有机会为巴西踢球，就不该有什么拦着你。”
In one sense, the China conundrum is nothing new. But the earlier Brazilian star Júnior Baiano was already 31 when he went to Shanghai in 2001, and of the 134 reported moves of Brazilians to China from 2003 to 2010, almost all were players from minor clubs.
从某种意义上讲，中国这个难题并不是什么新鲜事。但更早一些的巴西球星小巴亚诺(Júnior Baiano)在2001年去上海踢球时已经31岁了，而且2003年至2010年间转会到中国俱乐部的134名巴西球员，几乎都出自比较小的球队。
But last year the Brasileirão’s two best players — both of them having broken into the national team — made the switch. One, Diego Tardelli, had just won the Brazilian Cup with Atlético Mineiro. The other, Ricardo Goulart, had just won back-to back league championships with Cruzeiro. And the money is only getting better: The onetime Sevilla striker Luís Fabiano left São Paulo for China last month for a salary reported at $7 million a year.
不过去年，巴西甲级联赛两名最出色的球员——都曾入选国家队——均转会到了中国。迭戈·塔尔德利(Diego Tardelli)刚刚帮助米内罗竞技俱乐部(Atlético Mineiro)赢得了巴西杯。而里卡多·高拉特(Ricardo Goulart)不久前携手克鲁塞罗队蝉联联赛冠军。涉及的金额只会越来越高：曾为塞维利亚队效力的前锋路易斯·法比亚诺(Luís Fabiano)上个月离开圣保罗队前往中国，据称可以获得700万美元的年薪。
Guangzhou Evergrande could be described as the team that changed the market in 2011, when it signed the Argentine midfielder Darío Conca from the Rio de Janeiro club Fluminense and made him, at the time, the third-highest-paid player in the world behind Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi.
广州恒大可以说是在2011年改变市场的球队。当时该队签下了里约热内卢富明尼斯队(Fluminense)的阿根廷籍中场球员达里奥·孔卡(Darío Conca)，并使他成为当时世界上收入第三高的球员，仅次于克里斯蒂亚诺·罗纳尔多(Cristiano Ronaldo)和里奥·梅西(Lionel Messi)。
Its investments quickly paid off: Guangzhou has won five straight Chinese Super League titles, and it now averages crowds of nearly 46,000 a game. Last summer, the team hired Brazil’s former World Cup manager, Luiz Felipe Scolari; he quickly delivered Guangzhou’s second Asian Champions League title in three years.
球队的投资很快就得到了回报：广州恒大连续五次赢得中超联赛冠军，现在平均每场比赛会吸引近4.6万名现场观众。去年夏季，该队聘用了曾率巴西队夺得世界杯桂冠的主帅路易斯·菲利佩·斯科拉里(Luiz Felipe Scolari)；他很快帮助球队获得三年内的第二个亚冠联赛冠军。
“From originally being a real estate company, their owners saw what football could achieve in terms of strengthening their brand, and they’ve now gone into other areas like entertainment and bottled water and cooking oil,” Chris Atkins, a player agent in China, said. “Other clubs have seen, too, the political and marketing gains that can be made by representing a certain city or province with a successful team. People talked about China next up being a steppingstone league, but they’ve just skipped that phase.”
“这家公司是做房地产起家，它的老板发现足球可以强化其品牌形象，他们现在又进入了娱乐、瓶装水、食用油等领域，”在中国做球员经纪人的克里斯·阿特金斯(Chris Atkins)说。“其他俱乐部也看到，通过用一支成功的球队来代表某个城市或省份，是可以有政治和市场上的好处的。有人曾说中国接下来可以成为一个垫脚石联赛，但是他们已经跳过了这个阶段。”
From the Chinese end, the equation is simple. Merely being associated with Brazilian soccer buys a superficial legitimacy as it ponders a potential bid to host the World Cup. For Brazilian pros, it’s more complicated. Off the record, some players talked about safety as a push factor in their decision to entertain offers from China; research released last month showed 21 of the world’s 50 most dangerous cities were in Brazil. Meanwhile the pull is not simply huge contracts, but clubs that actually honor them.
在中国人看来，这是个很简单的计算。时下他们正在考虑主办世界杯的可能性，仅仅是跟巴西足球联系在一起，就已经能买到一种表面的正当性了。对巴西职业球员来说就要复杂很多。一些球员私下里表示，安全因素推动他们开始考虑来自中国的邀约；上月发布的一项研究显示，全球50座最危险的城市中，21座在巴西。与此同时，吸引他们的不只是大额合同，而是真正能履行合同的俱乐部。
“Brazil is struggling as a country,” said Ricardo Mello, who works as an intermediary between Brazilian players and Chinese clubs. As the Brazilian real has plummeted in value, he said, the ability to be paid in foreign currency “means a lot to players; it can change lives forever.”
“巴西是个处在困境中的国家，”在巴西球员和中国俱乐部之间担任中间人的里卡多·梅洛(Ricardo Mello)说。随着巴西里亚尔的大幅贬值，用外币支付的能力“对球员十分重要；是可以从此改变人生的。”
And for Brazilian teams, transfer fees remain a vital source of revenue. A list of the most indebted clubs in the country has 10 owing at least $63 million, with Flamengo topping the list at more than $150 million. Despite its size and recent successes, Corinthians sits uncomfortably on that list, with debts of around $70 million.
而对巴西的球队来说，转会费是一个关乎生死的收入来源。一份全国负债最多俱乐部名单显示，10家俱乐部负债在6300万美元以上，其中弗拉门戈(Flamengo)最高，已经超过了1.5亿美元。而科林蒂安尽管规模很大，近年来也很成功，却也尴尬地位列其中，负债在7000万美元左右。
While some wonder why European teams are not racing to match China’s spending in the market, the simple answer seems to be that they do not value the players as highly. Thus, in Brazil, where once there was pride in selling brilliant artists to those who appreciated them, now there is little joy in selling off lesser players at inflated prices.
可能有人在想，为什么欧洲球队没有急切地在市场上跟中国人竞争，简单说就是他们似乎不认为这些球员值那么多钱。因此，曾经因为把才华横溢的艺术家卖给懂得欣赏的人为傲的巴西，如今看到一些才能没那么高的人卖出虚高的价格，也就没那么兴奋了。
“The model here is long broken,” said Amir Somoggi, a sports marketing consultant based here. “We work on popular governance of teams, not investing into them as companies. And our philosophy is sell, sell, sell.”
“整个模式早就已经毁了，”在巴西作体育市场顾问的阿米尔·索莫吉(Amir Somoggi)说。“我们用老百姓的思维治理球队，不会把它们当作公司来投入。我们的哲学就是——卖卖卖。”