BEIJING — The Chinese government has imposed new limits on foreign brands of milk powder and infant formula sold in China, according to reports on Monday by the state-run news media.
北京——中国官方新闻媒体周一报道称，中国政府对在华销售的外国奶粉和婴儿配方奶粉品牌实施了新的限制。
The new restrictions require foreign makers of milk powder to register the products, as well as their manufacturing and storage centers, with the government before the products can be sold in China. On Monday, The Beijing News released a list of the 41 foreign companies and manufacturing sites that have been registered so far. It includes subsidiaries of Nestlé, a Swiss company, in Germany and the Netherlands; Wyeth Nutrition, a company that Nestlé recently bought from Pfizer, in Ireland; Abbott Laboratories, an American company, in the Netherlands; and Nutricia, owned by Danone of France, in New Zealand, Germany and the Netherlands. The list could expand as more companies apply to register their products with China’s General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine.
新规定要求外国奶粉生产商到政府机构登记产品、产地和储存地，之后才能在华销售产品。周一，《新京报》公布了目前已登记的41家外国公司和生产厂商的名单。名单中包括瑞士公司雀巢(Nestlé)在德国和荷兰的厂商、雀巢前不久从辉瑞公司(Pfizer)购入的惠氏营养品(Wyeth Nutrition)在爱尔兰的厂商、美国公司雅培(Abbott Laboratories)在荷兰的厂商以及法国达能(Danone of France)旗下Nutricia在新西兰、德国和荷兰的厂商。随着更多公司向中国国家质量监督检验检疫总局申请注册产品，这份名单还会扩展。
The new rule officially went into effect last Thursday. A month before, the government began requiring foreign makers of milk powder to put Chinese-language labels on products intended for sale in China before the products were shipped to the country.
新规于上周四正式生效。一个月前，政府开始要求外国奶粉生产商给准备销往中国的产品贴上中文标签，然后才能运往中国。
The Beijing News quoted a dairy industry expert who said that the government was trying to stop “illegal” brands from being sold in China and to allow only large, trusted brands into the market.
《新京报》援引一名乳业专家的话说，政府的意图是确保“国内销售的进口奶粉乳品符合中国食品安全要求”，只允许获得信任的大品牌进入中国。
The demand in China for foreign-made infant formula and milk powder surged in 2008, when at least six babies died after drinking milk products tainted with melamine, a toxic chemical used in manufacturing.
2008年，含工业用有毒化学制品三聚氰胺的奶制品后导致至少6名婴儿死亡。在那之后，中国对外国产婴儿配方奶粉和奶粉的需求激增。
Last year, Allen Wang, chief executive and co-founder of Babytree.com, the largest online forum for Chinese parents, said surveys by his company showed that about two-thirds of Chinese parents were using infant formula and that foreign brands commanded a 60 percent market share. Many Chinese parents favor infant formula over breast-feeding, in part because of aggressive marketing by formula makers.
去年，网站宝宝树(Babytree.com)的首席执行官及联合创始人王怀南(Allen Wang)表示，根据公司调查，大约三分之二的中国父母都在使用婴儿配方奶粉，外国品牌占了60%的市场份额。宝宝树是中国家长最大的网络论坛。与母乳喂养相比，许多中国父母更愿意使用婴儿配方奶粉，部分是因为配方奶粉生产商的大力营销。
The surge in demand for foreign-made products led to a big increase in prices. Both Mr. Wang and the online edition of People’s Daily, said last year that the prices of foreign-made infant formula sold in China had risen by at least 30 percent since 2008.
由于需求猛增，外国产品的价格急剧上升。去年，王怀南和《人民日报》的网络版都曾表示，自2008年以来，在华出售的外国婴儿配方奶粉的价格起码增加了30%。
But many Chinese say the foreign brands of formula sold in their country could be fake or tainted by retailers or distributors, so they buy large amounts of infant formula while traveling overseas, or they purchase the formula through small online Chinese companies that guarantee that the products were originally bought abroad. Many Chinese go to Hong Kong to buy foreign-made formula, leading the territory’s government last year to impose a two-can limit on departing travelers. Some big retailers in other countries, like Boots and Sainsbury’s in Britain, have also declared two-can limits on purchases of infant formula by individual customers in their stores.
但是，许多中国人都认为在华出售的进口奶粉可能是假的，也可能被零售商或经销商动过手脚。所以，他们往往会在出国期间大量购买婴儿配方奶粉，或者通过承诺其产品为原装进口的小型中国网络公司来购买奶粉。许多中国内地人前往香港购买外国制造的配方奶粉，致使香港政府去年设立了一条规定，即游客离境时最多只能携带两罐奶粉。诸如英国的Boots和Sainsbury’s之类的其他国家大型零售商也宣布，每名顾客最多只能在他们的店里购买两罐婴儿配方奶粉。