The same day that Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel of the United States blasted the actions of a Chinese ship in the South China Sea as “irresponsible,” China announced that it would deploy a military ship to work with an American vessel involved in the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons.
就在美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)抨击中国一艘军舰在南海的行为“不负责任”的同一天，中国宣布将派出一艘军舰为将要销毁的叙利亚化学武器海运护航。
The willingness of China to work with the United States Navy was not intended as amends for the near collision on Dec. 5 between the American guided-missile cruiser, the Cowpens, and a Chinese ship that suddenly cut across its bow.
中国与美国海军合作的意愿并非是为了弥补12月5日与美国“考本斯号”(Cowpens)导弹巡洋舰险些相撞一事，当时一艘中国军舰突然从“考本斯号”船头前方横穿而过。
But the declaration by China’s Foreign Ministry on Thursday that one of its navy ships would protect the American ship, the Cape Ray, which is being fitted with mobile laboratories for destroying the chemical weapons at sea, was widely seen as a desire by China to cooperate with the United States Navy in an important international operation.
但是中国外交部周四宣布中国海军军舰将为美国“光芒角号”(Cape Ray)船护航，此举被广泛视为中方有意在一次重要的国际行动中与美国海军展开合作。“光芒角号”正在安装可在海上销毁化学武器的移动实验室。
Both navies are watching each other with mounting rivalry, and wariness. The Chinese Navy is showing more confidence in certain areas, particularly after launching more than a dozen new modern frigates with strong air defense capabilities.
中美两国海军日趋将对方视为对手，彼此间的提防心理越来越强烈。中国海军正在某些领域展现出更大自信，尤其是在十几艘具备强大防空能力的新型护卫舰入列后。
But that does not preclude a desire by China to learn from the United States Navy, the world’s most powerful, said Lyle J. Goldstein, a professor at the China Maritime Studies Institute at the United States Naval War College in Rhode Island.
但是，位于罗德岛的美国海军战争学院(United States Naval War College)中国海事研究所(China Maritime Studies Institute)教授莱尔·J·戈尔茨坦(Lyle J. Goldstein)说，这并不排除中国希望向世界上最强大的美国海军学习的愿望。
“This is a very positive and welcome signal, especially coming on the heels of the latest naval incident in the South China Sea,” Mr. Goldstein said of the offer that the People’s Liberation Army Navy work with the Americans. “Undoubtedly the PLA Navy is eager to work with the U.S. Navy in actual operations,”
戈尔茨坦在提到解放军海军提出与美国合作时说，“这是个十分积极和可喜的信号，特别是最近在南海发生海上对峙之后。毫无疑问，解放军海军希望与美国海军合作，一起执行实际的任务。”
The Foreign Ministry did not specify what kind of ship China would send to the operation being overseen by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the intergovernmental organization based in The Hague that verifies compliance with the Chemical Weapons Convention. That group has said the American vessel, the Cape Ray, will receive the chemical weapons from Syria at an unnamed port in Italy from Danish and Norwegian ships.
外交部没有具体说明中国将派出何种型号的军舰参加由禁止化学武器组织（Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, 缩写为OPCW）统筹的这一行动，禁止化学武器组织总部位于海牙，是一个对《禁止化学武器公约》(Chemical Weapons Convention)进行合规检查的政府间组织。该组织称，美国“光芒角号”船将在意大利的某个海港从丹麦和挪威船舶接受来自叙利亚的化学武器。
It was most likely that one of the new dozen or so Chinese frigates known as the Jiangkai-II would be dispatched for the operation, Mr. Goldstein said. “The PLA Navy has been building these frigates at a rapid clip for several years now,” he said.
戈尔茨坦说，中国很可能会派出十几艘“江凯II级”（北约代号，中国称为054A型——译注）新型护卫舰中的一艘来参加这一行动。“几年来，解放军海军一直在快速建造该型护卫舰。”
They have been used for anti-piracy duty in the Gulf of Aden, and one was deployed off the coast of Libya in early 2011 to provide protection for ships evacuating Chinese citizens, he said. The frigates are equipped with strong air-defense capabilities. They also have anti-ship missiles, as well as anti-submarine capabilities, including a helicopter.
他说，这些护卫舰曾在亚丁湾执行反海盗任务，其中一艘还在2011年早些时候被派到利比亚海岸外，为疏散中国公民的船舶护航。这些护卫舰配备强大的防空装备。它们还装备舰对舰导弹，并具有反潜能力，包括一架直升机。
There may be another benefit to China for participating in the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons:
中国参加销毁叙利亚化学武器的行动还有望为其带来另一个好处：
Analysts have noted for some time the disparity between China’s growing energy interests in the Middle East and its modest diplomacy in the region. “This initiative may represent an attempt by Beijing to start to rectify this perceived imbalance,” Mr. Goldstein said.
分析人士早就注意到，中国在中东的能源利益不断上升，而在该地区的外交活动不甚积极，两者之间存在不协调。戈尔茨坦说，“这次行动可能表明北京已经意识到这种失衡，正试图开始弥补。”