ZHUHAI, China — In a private room at Airshow China set aside for discreet deal making, the Commercial Aviation Corporation of China has hung a picture of President Xi Jinping sitting in the cockpit of one of its new planes.
珠海——在珠海航展期间为低调的商业洽谈预留的僻静房间里，中国商用飞机有限责任公司在墙壁上悬挂了一幅习近平主席坐在该公司一架新飞机驾驶舱里的照片。
The glossy photo is more than just a celebrity endorsement: It represents the status of the company, known as Comac, as the country’s largest foray into commercial aviation. And Comac has ambitions to push beyond the borders of China, facing off directly with Western heavyweights in a global market that by some estimates is expected to see more than $4 trillion in sales over the next 20 years.
这幅光鲜的照片不只是大人物的代言，也显示了中国商飞(Comac)的地位——该公司是中国跻身商用飞机市场的第一次大举尝试。中国商飞也雄心勃勃地要向海外挺进，在全球市场上与西方大型企业面对面地竞争。据估计，未来20年里，这个市场的销售额将会超过4万亿美元（约合25万亿元人民币）。
At the air show here, Comac’s two biggest projects, the ARJ21 regional jet and the C919 jetliner, are front and center — although the C919 has yet to make its first flight. And even though Comac has many obstacles to surmount, the competition is paying attention. Marwan Lahoud, the head of strategy and marketing for the European plane maker Airbus Group, said he expected to see Comac going head-to-head with Airbus and its American rival Boeing for airline orders by the beginning of the next decade.
在珠海举办的航展上，中国商飞旗下两个最大的项目，支线飞机ARJ21和大型喷气客机C919得到了突出的展示，不过C919尚未首飞。尽管中国商飞还需要克服很多障碍，但已经受到了竞争对手的关注。欧洲飞机制造商空中客车集团(Airbus Group)的战略和营销主管马尔万·拉胡德(Marwan Lahoud)说，他预计中国商飞将会从20年代初期开始，与空客及其美国对手波音(Boeing)争夺航空公司的订单。
“They are not yet completely organized, but this will happen,” Mr. Lahoud said. “If Air France or British Airways or Lufthansa were to launch a request for proposals for single-aisle aircraft somewhere in 2020, Comac will bid. And Comac will be a competitor.”
“他们还没有完全组织好，不过会有这么一天的，”拉胡德说。“如果法国航空(Air France)、英国航空(British Airways)或汉莎航空(Lufthansa)在2020年招标采购单通道飞机，中国商飞就会竞标。而且还能成为一个竞争者。”
On Tuesday, the first day of the air show, Comac announced a deal to build 30 C919 jets, which can carry about 170 passengers, for the leasing arm of the state-owned China Merchants Bank. Comac, founded in 2008 in Shanghai, is also state owned. Neither the total value of the deal nor the unit price was disclosed.
周二，在航展的第一天，中国商飞宣布了一个为国有的招商银行旗下的租赁部门，制造30架C919客机的订单，这款飞机可以搭载170名乘客。2008年在上海组建的中国商飞也是国有企业。这项交易的总金额和单价都未对外公布。
“Manufacturers love to announce big orders — they tend to do a lot of negotiations prior to an air show and save up the news to announce” before a global audience, said Ray Jaworowski, a senior aerospace analyst at Forecast International. At the Zhuhai show, he said, Comac will “primarily focus on orders from Chinese clients,” who face political pressure to buy domestically produced hardware.
“制造商都喜欢宣布大额订单，它们喜欢在航展之前开展大量的谈判，然后捂住消息，”等着在全球观众面前宣布，预测国际(Forecast International)关注航空航天业的高级分析师雷·贾沃罗夫斯基(Ray Jaworowski)表示。他说，中国商飞在珠海航展上，会“主要关注中国客户的订单”，因为它们面临着政治压力，要购买国内生产的设备。
Although the C919’s development has hit delays, which are common in the industry, Comac has outstanding orders from several Chinese carriers, including Shanghai Airlines, Xiamen Airlines and Henan Airlines, and one foreign carrier, Lao Airlines.
尽管C919的研发经历了延迟（这个行业的常见现象），但中国商飞还是得到了来自若干家中国航空公司的订单，包括上海航空、厦门航空、河南航空。此外，外国航空公司老挝航空(Lao Airlines)也进行了订购。
Both the C919 and the ARJ21 rely heavily on Western technology for engines and electronics, with suppliers including General Electric, Honeywell, Kidde and Rockwell Collins. Concerns about China’s engine technology have also hampered military aerospace development in the country.
无论是C919还是ARJ21，在发动机和电子设备方面，都高度依赖西方技术，其供应商包括通用电气(General Electric)、霍尼韦尔(Honeywell)、凯德(Kidde)，以及罗克韦尔柯林斯(Rockwell Collins)。针对中国引擎技术的担忧，也阻碍了中国军用航空的发展。
China’s large internal market should ease Comac’s path in attracting early customers and establishing a track record.
中国巨大的国内市场，应该有助于商飞吸引早期客户，帮助它走上正轨。
“Given the investment that is being made in development of these indigenous aircraft, the Chinese government has an incentive to ensure that enough of a domestic market exists for these programs to achieve success,” Mr. Jaworowski said. “This can take the form of the government nudging state-owned airlines and other institutions into buying these aircraft.”
“由于已经对这些国产飞机的研发做出了大量投资，中国政府有意愿确保这些飞机项目有充足的国内市场，从而取得成功，”贾沃罗夫斯基说。“具体方式可能是政府督促国有航空公司及其他机构，购买这些飞机。”
But even if the planes perform well in the domestic market, to sell them outside China, Comac will face technical, regulatory and political challenges.
不过，即使这些飞机在国内市场表现良好，在向海外出口时，中国商飞也会遇到技术、监管和政治方面的挑战。
Certification by the Federal Aviation Administration in the United States “tends to be long and costly,” Mr. Jaworowski said. “However, such certification, whether from the F.A.A. or the European Aviation Safety Agency, is essential if the C919 or the ARJ21 are to garner sales in the large and lucrative Western markets.”
要想取得美国联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）的认证，“往往要花很多时间和成本，”贾沃罗夫斯基说。“然而要想在规模巨大、利润丰厚的西方市场取得销售业绩，这样的认证，无论是FAA认证还是欧洲航空安全局（European Aviation Safety Agency，简称EASA）的认证，都是必不可少的。”
Certification can involve compliance checks with hundreds, or even thousands, of regulations. Matters as varied as the design of the aircraft, the manufacturing facilities and the onboard systems must meet the agencies’ standards. The process can take years: F.A.A. employees logged more than 200,000 hours on technical certification for Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner, plus more than 4,000 hours of flight testing.
认证过程可能包括涉及数百甚至数千条规定的合规性检查。从飞机设计到生产设施及机载系统的各个方面都必须达到相关机构的标准。这个过程需要几年的时间：FAA的工作人员在波音787梦想客机(Dreamliner)的技术认证上耗费了逾20万个小时，还在飞行测试工作上耗费了4000个小时。
Advantages for Chinese planes, he said, will be lower prices and “also the fact that some countries do not require an F.A.A.- or EASA-type certificate.”
他表示，中国飞机的优势在于价格低廉，而且“一些国家不要求获得FAA或EASA认证”。
A new Boeing 737 costs $78 million to $113 million, depending on the model, while an Airbus A320 runs $88 million to $97 million. Both types are proven and in wide use around the world. Boeing estimates the global passenger and cargo aircraft market will be worth $5.2 trillion over the next 20 years; Airbus puts the number at $4.6 trillion.
新波音737飞机定价为7800万美元至1.13亿美元，型号不同价格不同，而空客A320的价钱为8800万美元至9700万美元。两款飞机都已获得认可，而且在世界各地得到广泛使用。波音公司预计，全球客机及货机市场的价值在未来20年中为5.2万亿美元；空客的预计为4.6万亿美元。
Robert C. Michelson, principal research engineer emeritus at the Georgia Tech Research Institute, said skepticism was warranted about Comac’s plans to sell abroad.
乔治亚技术研究所(Georgia Tech Research Institute)荣休首席研究员罗伯特·C·米切尔森(Robert C. Michelson)表示，有正当理由怀疑中国商飞的海外销售计划。
“The ARJ21 and C919 are both fraught with production and certification delays, he said. “I think that the flying public will want to see a track record for these aircraft before they are comfortable flying on them.”
“ARJ21和C919都存在生产及认证延迟的问题，”他说。“我觉得乘客们希望在安心地乘坐这些飞机前，了解它们过往的记录如何。”
The ARJ21 can seat up to 90 and would compete with regional jet offerings from Embraer of Brazil and Bombardier of Canada, among others. It has been in development since 2002, according to Aviation Week magazine, with the first work being done by a government-led consortium that became part of Comac. It was supposed to have entered service in 2007, but that milestone is now expected in 2015. It has not been certified by the F.A.A., and no official unit cost has been publicized.
最多可以容纳90名乘客的ARJ21将与巴西航空工业公司(Embraer)、加拿大庞巴迪公司(Bombardier)等公司制造的支线飞机展开竞争。据《航空周刊》(Aviation Week)报道，中国商飞从2002年开始研发ARJ21，初期工作由政府牵头的联合体完成，该联合体后来成为了中国商飞的一部分。这款飞机原本计划在2007年投入使用，但按照目前的估计，这一里程碑事件将会被推迟到2015年。该飞机还没有获得FAA认可，官方价格也尚未公布。
For the C919 jetliner, Mr. Michelson predicts a wide market if Comac can allay concerns about quality, reliability and safety.
至于大型喷气客机C919，米切尔森预测称，如果中国商飞能够消除外界对其质量、可靠性及安全性的担忧，这款飞机的市场会非常广阔。
“The C919 is a later development that could be seen outside of the Asia-Pacific region,” he said. “Ryanair is cooperating in the development of the C919, and this could portend the use of this aircraft by a low-cost airline, Ryanair, in Europe.”
“C919启动时间较晚，可能能够走出亚太地区，”他说。“瑞安航空(Ryanair)参与了C919的研发工作，这可能意味着欧洲廉价航空公司瑞安将会使用这款飞机。”
Mr. Lahoud, the Airbus executive, said the C919’s design would be akin to something built in the 1980s, with a few exceptions. “This may be considered as a weakness if we look specifically at some of the key factors, like fuel consumption,” he said.
空客高管拉胡德表示，除了几处不同外，C919的设计与20世纪80年代建造的东西类似。他说，“如果我们具体看一下耗油量等关键因素，这种设计可能会被看作是弱点。”