PARIS — Shares of PSA Peugeot Citroën tumbled on Monday as investors anticipated that the struggling French automaker was closing in on a deal to raise fresh capital that would dilute the value of its stock.
巴黎——本周一，标致雪铁龙集团(PSA Peugeot Citroën)的股价出现暴跌，原因是投资者预期这家苦苦挣扎的法国汽车制造商即将达成一项协议，协议旨在为公司注入新资本，公司股价会因此受到稀释。
There has been speculation since early summer that Peugeot, the second-largest European automaker after Volkswagen, was seeking a tie-up with Dongfeng Motor Group, a state-owned Chinese company with which Peugeot jointly assembles vehicles in China. Expectations were heightened by a Reuters report over the weekend that said Peugeot had drafted a plan to raise 3 billion euros, or about $4.1 billion, of new capital.
从今年夏初开始，人们就揣测标致试图与中国国有企业东风汽车集团股份有限公司（简称东风）捆绑在一起。标致是欧洲第二大汽车制造商，排在大众汽车集团(Volkswagen)之后，一直在与东风合作，在中国联手组装汽车。路透社(Reuters)上周末发表的报道强化了这种预期，该报道称，标致已经起草了一份计划，要筹集30亿欧元（约合183亿元人民币）的新资本。
According to Reuters, which did not identify its sources, Dongfeng and the French government may each inject 1.5 billion euros of capital into Peugeot in return for stakes of 20 to 30 percent each. A separate report last week from China Business News said Dongfeng was prepared to pay about $1.6 billion for 30 percent of Peugeot.
根据路透社这篇没有说明消息来源的报道，东风和法国政府可能会分别向标致注资15亿欧元，分别换取20%到30%的股份。一财网上周的一篇报道则称，东风准备支付约16亿欧元，购买标致30%的股份。
Peugeot’s stock closed 9 percent lower in Paris on Monday as investors wagered that the shares they now held would lose much of their value if diluted by the new capital. Peugeot has a market value of just under 4 billion euros. Even after the decline Monday, the shares are up 104 percent this year because of hopes for a turnaround.
在巴黎，标致的股价周一收盘时下跌了9%，原因是投资者认定，如果被新资本稀释，他们现在持有的股份会失去大部分价值。标致目前的市值略低于40亿欧元。由于投资者对经济好转怀有希望，虽然经历了周一的股价下跌，标致的股价在今年依然上涨了104%。
“It’s no mystery that Peugeot is looking for industrial partners,” Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici told France Inter radio on Monday, adding that the company was not facing immediate financial difficulties. Asked about reports that representatives of the French government had accompanied Peugeot executives on a delegation to China to smooth the way for a deal, Mr. Moscovici replied: “We are completely invested in the fate of this company.”
本周一，法国财政部长皮埃尔·莫斯科维奇(Pierre Moscovici)对法国公共电台(France Inter radio)表示，“标致正在寻找业内伙伴，这不是什么秘密。”他还说，该公司并没有遇上迫在眉睫的财务困难。有报道称法国政府代表已随同标致高管出访中国，为此次协议铺平道路，被问到此事时，莫斯科维奇回应说，“我们完全是在为这家公司的前途投资。”
Cécile Damide, a Peugeot spokeswoman, declined to comment on the latest reports. She cited a company statement Monday that said management was “examining industrial and commercial developments with different partners, including the financial implications that would result from them.”
标致的女发言人塞西尔·达米德(Cécile Damide)拒绝评论最近的报道。她援引公司周一发表的声明表示，公司管理层“正在审核和不同伙伴之间业内及商业合作的进展，也在审核由此而来的财务影响。”
“None of these projects has reached maturity yet,” she added.
她还说，“所有这些项目都还没有步入成熟阶段。”
Peugeot has been hurt by its heavy reliance on the European market, where sales shrank 5.2 percent in the first eight months of 2013 from the same period last year, reaching the lowest level in decades. The company has been cutting jobs and reducing capacity in Europe to slow its cash burn, but analysts say it needs to grow outside of its home market if it is to achieve the kind of scale it needs to flourish.
标致对欧洲市场的严重依赖已对它造成伤害，与去年同期相比，2013年的头八个月里，其在欧洲市场的销售量减少了5.2%，跌至几十年来的最低水平。公司一直在削减工作岗位、减少欧洲的产能，以放慢烧钱速度，但分析人士表示，如果要达到振兴公司所需的销售规模，标致就必须在欧洲市场之外取得发展。
If the capital tie-up is realized, Dongfeng, one of China’s largest automakers, would gain access to Peugeot’s technology and European distribution network. The Chinese company has said that it is studying a possible investment in its French partner.
如果这项资本合作成为现实，中国顶尖汽车生产商东风将有机会使用标致的技术和欧洲销售网络。这家中国公司已经表示，公司正在研究，可能会对其法国合作伙伴进行投资。
Peugeot directors are to discuss the company’s finances at a board meeting on Oct. 22, a day before the company releases its third-quarter financial results. But building a new shareholding and management structure would be a complex task. A deal of the magnitude that appears to be under discussion would require the Peugeot family, which holds just over 25 percent of the automaker’s shares and about 38 percent of the voting rights, to give up control of the company.
标致的董事将在10月22日的董事会上讨论公司的财务状况，一天后，标致公司将发布第三季度财报。然而，构建一个新的股权和管理结构将是一项复杂的工程。似乎处于讨论进程之中的这项交易规模如此巨大，可能会迫使标致家族放弃对公司的控制。标致家族目前拥有标致公司超过25%的股份和大约38%的表决权。
Such a deal would also require the acquiescence of General Motors. The American automaker became Peugeot’s second-largest shareholder in February 2012, paying about 1 billion euros for a 7 percent stake. The two companies have agreed to cooperate on a number of projects intended to cut their costs in Europe. G.M., which is restructuring its own unprofitable European operations, has said it has no interest in increasing its investment in Peugeot.
同时，这样一项交易也需要得到通用汽车(General Motors)的同意。2012年2月，通用汽车斥资约10亿欧元购得标致7%的股份，成为了标致的第二大股东。这两家公司同意在众多项目上进行合作，旨在削减它们在欧洲的成本。通用汽车正在对自己在欧洲的不赢利业务进行重组，已经表示无意增加对标致的投资。
The involvement of the French government might also raise complications. The state does not own a stake in Peugeot, but it gained a big say in the company’s management last year when it agreed to provide the automaker’s consumer finance unit with 7 billion euros in credit guarantees and appointed Louis Gallois, the former chief executive of European Aeronautic Defense and Space, to a seat on Peugeot’s board.
法国政府的参与也可能会让事情变得复杂。法国政府并不拥有标致的股份，但却在去年同意为这家汽车厂商的消费金融部门提供70亿欧元的信用担保，并任命欧洲宇航防务集团(European Aeronautic Defense and Space)前首席执行官路易·加洛瓦(Louis Gallois)担任公司董事，由此取得了对公司管理的重要发言权。
Bernard Jullien, director of Gerpisa, an automobile research network, said that another concern was that the size of the investment from Dongfeng that has been suggested might not be enough to get Peugeot out of its troubles, because it was roughly equivalent to the amount of cash the French company was expected to burn through this year.
汽车行业研究组织Gerpisa的负责人贝尔纳·朱利安(Bernard Jullien)说，另外一个担忧是，已披露的来自东风的投资规模可能不足以让标致摆脱困境，因为这笔钱只是大致相当于这家法国公司过完今年需要花费的现金。
“It’s enough money to remain in place,” he said, adding that a tie-up with Dongfeng might eventually pay off for Peugeot in the form of entry into emerging markets like Malaysia and Indonesia. “But it’s not enough to help it compete with Volkswagen and the others in Europe.”
“这笔钱足以让标致维持下去，”他说，“却不足以帮助其同大众(Volkswagen)和欧洲的其他对手竞争。”他还说，标致最终可能会从与东风的合作当中获利，获利途径则是打进马来西亚和印度尼西亚之类的新兴市场。
“I don’t think they have a strategy,” he said of the French company. “What they have is a lot of problems that need to be solved quickly. Then they’ll come up with a strategy.”
“我觉得，他们并没有一个战略，”他这样评价标致，“他们有的只是大量的问题，这些问题必须尽快解决。这之后，他们才能拿出一个战略。”