WASHINGTON — Five Chinese Navy ships were sailing in international waters of the Bering Sea off the coast of Alaska on Wednesday, in what Pentagon officials said was the first such foray by Beijing.
华盛顿——周三，五艘中国海军舰只行驶到了阿拉斯加附近的白令海水域，五角大楼官员称，这是北京方面首次做出此类举动。
The move came on the last day of President Obama’s three-day visit to Alaska, in which he became the first sitting president to travel to Arctic Alaska. The White House said that the intent of the Chinese operation was unclear, but that the Pentagon had not detected any threatening activities.
事件发生之时，奥巴马总统视察阿拉斯加的三天行程也进入了最后一天，他是视察阿拉斯加北冰洋沿岸的第一位在任美国总统。白宫表示，中国军队行动的目的尚不明确，不过五角大楼并没有侦测到任何具有威胁性的活动。
The foray may be more about economics than defense. The Arctic has become hotly contested as the United States, Russia and China, among other nations, have expanded their economic and security interests. A growing number of vessels have been traveling north through the Bering Strait, and the Coast Guard has diverted ships from other core missions to manage the traffic.
中方军事行动的意图更可能涉及经济，而非防务。随着美国、俄罗斯、中国及其他国家拓展各自的经济和安全利益，对于北冰洋的争夺大大加剧。有越来越多的船只通过白令海峡驶入北冰洋，海岸警卫队也从其他关键编队中调来舰艇，管理海上交通。
A Pentagon official noted that China has every right to patrol international waters, adding that American warships often ply waters off the coast of China. “I wouldn’t call this something we are very worried about,” the official said. He said that American officials had identified a Chinese amphibious ship, three surface combatant ships and a replenishment vessel in the Bering Sea.
五角大楼一位官员谈到，中国有权在国际水域巡航，他也提到，美国舰只也经常在靠近中国沿海的水域航行。“我不觉得这是一件我们很担心的事情，”这名官员说。他透露，美国官员在白令海识别出了一艘中国两栖登陆舰、三艘水面战舰和一艘补给舰。
Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said that the Defense Department respected “the freedom of all nations to operate military vessels in international waters.”
五角大楼发言人杰夫·戴维斯上校(Capt. Jeff Davis)表示，美国国防部“尊重所有国家的军舰在国际水域行动的自由”。
The operation, which was first reported by The Wall Street Journal, came as China has been increasingly flexing its military muscle, particularly off its own coast. Beijing has increased military spending and is working on an aircraft carrier. Last year, Chinese officials took Chuck Hagel, the defense secretary at the time, on a tour of the carrier, the Liaoning. Many American officials interpreted the move as an effort to project naval power, particularly in light of tensions between Beijing and its neighbors over disputed islands in the East and South China Seas.
此次军事行动最早是由《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)报道的。近期，中国一直在日益积极地展示军事实力，尤其是在本国海岸附近。北京也扩大了军费开支，而且正在对一艘航空母舰进行调试。去年，中国官员带领时任美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)参观了这艘名为“辽宁号”的航母。按照许多美国官员的解读，此次动作的意图是展示海军军力，尤其是在中国与其邻国之间就东海和南海的争议岛屿紧张不断之际。