HONG KONG — China’s exports unexpectedly fell in March, and its imports dropped even more sharply, but the significance of the data for the Chinese economy was clouded by uncertainty over the extent to which exporters and importers were timing shipments to profit from currency market shifts.
香港——中国出口值在3月出现了出人意料的下降，进口值下降的幅度甚至更大，但这组数据对中国经济的重要性尚存疑问，原因是无法确定中国进出口商在多大程度上调整了装运期，以从货币市场的波动当中获利。
China’s exports fell 6.6 percent in dollar terms last month, compared with a year ago, while imports tumbled 11.3 percent, China’s General Administration of Customs said on Thursday. Economists had expected both to show small increases.
中国海关总署周四透露，上个月，以美元计的中国出口值比去年同期下降了6.6%，进口值下降了11.3%。经济学家此前曾预计，进出口值均会出现小幅增长。
But the change in exports was particularly hard to predict because many exporters had overstated the value of their shipments a year ago to circumvent China’s currency controls. The over-invoicing allowed exporters to bring more dollars into the country, placing a bet on further appreciation of the renminbi, the Chinese currency.
不过，一年以前，许多出口商都曾为绕过中国的货币监管而夸大自己的出口值，有鉴于此，出口值的前述变化格外难于预料。高报货价使得出口商能把更多美元带入境内，把赌注押在中国货币人民币继续升值上。
By contrast, the People’s Bank of China, the country’s central bank, pushed the value of the renminbi down 2.5 percent with heavy purchases of dollars and by telling state-controlled banks to buy dollars. The central bank’s initiative, designed to discourage speculation on further appreciation of the renminbi, removed the incentive for overinvoicing.
然而，中国央行中国人民银行大量购买美元，并要求国有银行购买美元，由此把人民币汇率压低了2.5%。央行此举的目的是阻止外界对人民币进一步升值进行投机，结果则是消除了刺激出口商高报货价的因素。
The drop in imports was the bigger surprise, as imports can sometimes be a bellwether for the broader economy. “Do not worry about the export data, but what about imports?” said Louis Kuijs, the chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland.
进口值的下降更加令人吃惊，因为进口值有时可以成为整体经济状况的风向标。苏格兰皇家银行首席中国经济师高路易(Louis Kuijs)说，“不必担心出口数据，然而，进口数据该怎么理解呢？”
But some traders may have delayed taking delivery of imports until their renminbi were worth more.
不过，一些贸易商可能推迟了进口商品的提货期，希望等到手中的人民币更值钱的时候再提货。
The Hong Kong and Shanghai stock markets were both down 0.3 percent a half-hour after the release of the trade data, with China-related stocks declining faster on the Hong Kong market than companies with more of their operations in Hong Kong itself. Both markets gained more than 1 percent for the day.
前述贸易数据发布半小时后，香港股市和上海股市均下跌了0.3%。在香港股市，与业务更多扎根于香港本地的公司相比，与中国有关的股票下跌得更快。两市当日的收盘价均上涨了逾1%。
Premier Li Keqiang of China said in the keynote speech on Thursday at the Boao Forum for Asia on China’s Hainan island that the Chinese economy would be able to achieve sustained growth through ongoing urbanization, growing technological strength and ample foreign exchange reserves.
周四，在中国海南岛的亚洲博鳌论坛上，中国总理李克强在主旨演讲中提出，中国可以利用不间断的城镇化进程、逐步增强的技术优势和巨额外汇储备实现持续的经济增长。
He also sounded a fairly conciliatory note on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, an American-endorsed plan for more free trade in Asia and around the Pacific basin. American officials have been skeptical at times that China, with its many oligopolistic, state-owned enterprises, would be willing to embrace sufficiently extensive market-opening measures to join the partnership, while some Chinese economists and other experts have been wary that the partnership’s ambitious goals might exclude them.
同时，他以相当友好的口气谈到了跨太平洋伙伴关系（Trans-Pacific Partnership， 简称TPP），这是美国为促进亚洲和太平洋海盆周边的自由贸易而推动的一个计划。美国官员有时怀疑，有着许多垄断性国有企业的中国不愿为了加入该伙伴关系而接受非常广泛的开放市场举措，而中国的部分经济学家和其他一些专家担心，该伙伴关系的宏伟目标会将它们排除在外。
Without saying how far China might go to dismantle its trade barriers, which remain among the highest of any major trading nation, Mr. Li said that, “As long as the T.P.P. is conducive to the development of global trade and the fostering of an equitable and open trading environment, China is happy to see its conclusion.”
李克强没有说明中国在废除贸易壁垒方面会有多大力度。中国的贸易壁垒在主要贸易国中依然是最高的。他说，“中国对跨太平洋战略经济伙伴关系协定持开放态度，只要有利于世界贸易的发展，有利于公平开放的贸易环境，中方乐见其成。”
China’s customs agency said in a news release that for the entire first quarter, the tonnage of commodity imports had increased even as the price had dropped sharply, in line with global price declines for commodities that have benefited China as the largest importer. China’s iron ore imports climbed 19.4 percent by tonnage in the first quarter, for example, even as the price fell 8 percent.
中国海关总署在一次新闻发布会上表示，整个一季度，尽管价格大幅下滑，进口商品的吨位依然有所增加。价格大幅下跌同全球范围内大宗商品价格下滑的情况相吻合，中国这个最大的进口国因此受益。比如，铁矿石价格下跌了8%，一季度中国铁矿石进口吨位则增加了19.4%。
The customs agency also noted that its survey of nearly 2,000 exporting companies showed greater optimism in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter of last year, prompting the agency to predict that exports would be stronger from April through June than in the first three months of this year.
海关总署还指出，对近2000家出口企业进行的调查显示，同去年第四季度相比，相关企业在今年一季度更乐观。该机构据此预测，4到6月的出口将会比今年第一季度更强劲。