With its Chang’e-3 probe successfully landed on the moon, China has announced details of the next phase of its lunar exploration program — to send an unmanned craft in 2017 that will land and return with samples.
嫦娥三号探测器成功落月之后，中国宣布了其探月计划的下一步，打算在2017年前后发射无人飞船，前往月球采集样品、并将返回地球。
That schedule suggests China will continue the rapid pace of its space program, which could see it launch a space station by the end of the decade. China has also discussed manned lunar exploration, but so far no plans have been announced.At the moment China is basking in the accomplishment of becoming only the third nation after the Soviet Union and the United States to carry out a successful soft landing on the moon, and the first in 37 years. It landed in the Bay of Rainbows shortly after 9 p.m. on Saturday, Chinese time.
这个时间表说明中国将继续快速发展其太空计划，按此计划，中国可能会在2020年底以前发射一个空间站。中国也曾讨论过载人探月，但到目前为止还未宣布过任何有关计划。目前，中国正沉浸在成功的喜悦之中，中国是继苏联和美国后的第三个在月球成功实现软着陆的国家，这也是37年来的首次落月。嫦娥三号探测器在北京时间周六晚9点后不久在虹湾着陆。
Early on Sunday the Yutu buggy, named after the Jade Rabbit of Chinese mythology, rolled out of the Chang’e craft, down a ramp and onto the surface of the moon. “At 4:35 a.m., Jade Rabbit touched the surface of the moon, its wheels leaving a pair of deep tracks,” said Xinhua, the state-run news agency. “These are the first footprints that China’s probe has left on the moon.”
周日早些时候，以中国神话中的玉兔命名的“玉兔”巡视器与“嫦娥”着陆器分离，沿着梯板下滑到月球表面。国家通讯社新华社报道称，“4时35分，‘玉兔’踏上月球，车轮在月面印出两道深深痕迹。这是中国探测器留在地外天体上的第一串‘脚印’。”
The Chang’e craft and the rover took photographs of each other later in the day, with the Jade Rabbit displaying a five-starred red-and-yellow Chinese flag. On Sunday evening President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Li Keqiang visited the mission control in Beijing to congratulate the space program personnel on their success.
当天晚些时候，嫦娥着陆器与玉兔巡视器进行了互拍，玉兔巡视器上展示着一面中国的五星红旗。周日晚间，国家主席习近平与总理李克强前往北京航天飞行控制中心，向该太空项目的全体人员祝贺他们取得的成功。
The high-level recognition of China’s achievement came amid some questions about the costs of the country’s space program. People’s Daily, acknowledged those concerns in a commentary on Monday, noting that Chinese citizens still had concerns about the low standards of social security and health insurance. Nevertheless, it argued, China’s space program, like the United States Apollo program that put a man on the moon or the Manhattan Project that developed the nuclear bomb, needs sustained investment. The newspaper said that along with broad scientific goals, the program would examine potential mineral and energy resources on the moon, “but one thing is clear, this will have even more unexpected benefits.”
伴随对中国成就的高层认可而来的是一些人对中国太空项目费用的质疑。《人民日报》在周一的一篇评论中承认了这种担忧，评论指出，普通中国人仍十分关心社保、医保的低标准。然而，评论据理争辩称，中国的太空计划，就像美国的把人送上月球的阿波罗计划(Apollo Program)、研发出原子弹的曼哈顿计划(Manhattan Project)一样，需要持久的投入。该文称，除了广泛的科学目的外，探月工程的目标还包括开发利用月球矿产和能源资源，“但有一点是肯定的——它会有更多意想不到的收获。”
The Jade Rabbit has an anticipated life span of about three months, and the Chang’e-3 probe one year. The Chang’e-4, built as a backup to Chang’e-3, will be reconfigured to test new equipment for a subsequent Chang’e-5 mission that will bring back lunar samples, Wu Zhijian, a spokesman for the State Administration of Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense, said at a news conference on Monday.
国防科工局发言人吴志坚在周一的新闻发布会上说，玉兔的设计寿命约为3个月，嫦娥三号的设计寿命为1年。嫦娥三号的备份星嫦娥四号将被改造，以验证嫦娥五号任务的部分关键技术，嫦娥五号的任务是从月球采集标本。
Mr. Wu said the obstacles that must be overcome before a return probe could be launched would be “even greater” than those faced by China’s previous lunar missions, according to a transcript of the news conference. “There are many breakthrough technologies required, including technology to take off from the moon, packaging samples taken from the surface of the moon, docking in lunar orbit and high-speed re-entry to Earth, all things China hasn’t done before,” he said. “According to our present understanding, if all goes smoothly, the construction of Chang’e-5 and its launch will occur around 2017.”
根据发布会的文字记录，吴志坚说，在发射返回探测器之前必须要解决的问题，比中国以前的探月任务难度“更大，（需要）突破的关键技术很多，包括月面的起飞技术、月面的采样封装技术、月球轨道的交会对接技术以及返回地球的高速再入返回技术，对于我们国家来讲都是以前没有做过的。从目前了解的情况看，嫦娥五号的研制进展顺利，预计在2017年前后完成研制并择机发射。”
One obvious advantage China’s moon landing has over the last manned lunar mission four decades ago is the vast improvement in camera technology.
中国这次在月球着陆与四十年前的最后一次载人探月相比，一个显著优势是摄像技术的巨大进步。
Consider the clarity of the footage from the Jade Rabbit rover’s separation from the Chang’e-3 craft.
看看玉兔巡航器从嫦娥着陆器上分离时的录像的清晰程度吧。
And here are images of the Apollo 17 astronauts Eugene Cernan and Harrison Schmitt on the moon’s surface from the last manned mission in 1972.
这里有阿波罗17号的宇航员尤金·塞尔南(Eugene Cernan)和哈里森·施米特(Harrison Schmitt)于1972年在月球登陆的录像，那是最后的一次载人探月。