BEIJING — President Xi Jinping of China met on Tuesday with Gov. Jerry Brown of California, embracing one of President Trump’s most prominent critics on the environment as China prepares to take a more commanding role in fighting climate change.
北京——在中国准备在应对气候变化上发挥更大作用之际，中国国家主席习近平周二会见了加利福尼亚州州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)，对特朗普总统环境方面最主要的批评者之一表示了欢迎。
The meeting, coming five days after Mr. Trump announced that the United States would abandon the landmark Paris climate accord, was notable in its symbolism, with Mr. Xi welcoming a man who has vowed to unleash a “countermovement” against Mr. Trump’s environmental policies.
五天前，特朗普宣布美国将退出具有里程碑意义的巴黎气候协定。这场会面中，习近平对一位誓要向特朗普的环境政策发起一场“对抗运动”的人表示欢迎，其象征意义值得注意。
Mr. Xi and Mr. Brown spent 45 minutes discussing ideas that Mr. Trump has treated skeptically, including efforts to reduce carbon emissions and promote alternative energy.
习近平和布朗花了45分钟的时间讨论了在特朗普看来有待商榷的理念，包括减少碳排放和促进替代能源使用的努力。
“It’s highly significant that the governor of California can meet with the president of China, talking about very specific issues on the foremost challenge of our time — namely, climate change,” Mr. Brown told reporters after the meeting, which took place at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
会见在北京人民大会堂举行，布朗在之后对记者说，“加州州长能与中国国家主席见面，就我们这个时代面临的最重要挑战——气候变化——讨论非常具体的问题，具有十分重大的意义。”
Mr. Brown, who was attending an energy conference in the capital, said Mr. Xi did not speak critically of Mr. Trump but welcomed California’s efforts to work with the Chinese government to help combat global warming.
来北京参加能源会议的布朗说，习近平没有批评特朗普，但对加州与中国政府合作、共同应对全球变暖的努力表示欢迎。
“He expressed very positive feelings about the role of California, about America and Chinese cooperation, and about the role of China in dealing with the larger problems of humanity,” Mr. Brown said.
“他对加州的作用、美中合作，以及中国在应对人类所面对的更大问题上的作用，表示出了非常积极的态度，”布朗说。
It is unusual for Mr. Xi to meet with governor-level officials from other countries. His meeting with Mr. Brown was covered extensively by news media and featured as one of the top stories on evening news programs.
习近平与其他国家州长级别的官员见面很不寻常。新闻媒体对他与布朗的会面进行了大范围的报道，将会面作为了晚间新闻节目的主要内容。
The United States energy secretary, Rick Perry, also attended the energy conference in Beijing on Tuesday, but there were no reports that he had met with Mr. Xi.
美国能源部长里克·佩里(Rich Perry)周二也出席了在北京举行的能源会议，但没有他与习近平见面的报道。
During a panel discussion on Tuesday, Mr. Perry spoke about storing or using carbon dioxide emissions so that they do not enter the atmosphere. He did not mention Mr. Trump’s decision to abandon the climate agreement, and he did not answer questions from reporters after the event.
在周二的一个小组讨论中，佩里谈到了储存或使用排放出来的二氧化碳、使其不进入大气层的问题。他没有提及特朗普退出气候协议的决定，也没有回答记者在会后向他提出的问题。
The embryonic and still costly carbon capture technology is seen by some energy officials and supporters of fossil fuel use as a way to extend the lives of coal power plants and to maintain industrial production that would otherwise pump even more emissions into the air.
一些能源官员和支持使用化石燃料的人，将这种尚未成熟、成本仍很高的碳捕集技术，当作一种延长燃煤发电厂寿命、维持某些工业生产方法的手段，如果不用这种技术，将会把更多的二氧化碳排放到大气中。 
The technology to capture and store or safely use carbon emissions “is a critical low-carbon technology that we must deploy to reduce emissions at the required scale from coal and gas-fire power plants, and the only option for decarbonizing high-emission process industries,” Mr. Perry said. “We don’t have to pit the environment against the economy. We can, and we will be, good stewards of both.”
捕集并储存、或安全使用碳排放的技术“是一个关键的低碳技术，我们必须用它来把燃煤和天然气发电厂的排放降低到所需的水平，这也是让高排放流程行业除碳的唯一选择，”佩里说。“我们不必把环境作为经济的对立面。我们能够、而且将会在这两个方面都把事情做好。”
Mr. Brown said that since Mr. Trump’s decision to take the United States out of the Paris climate agreement, many people had been looking to China to take a prominent role in the fight against climate change.
布朗说，自从特朗普决定让美国退出巴黎气候协定后，许多人都在期待中国在应对气候变化上起更重要的作用。
“California’s leading, China’s leading,” Mr. Brown said. “It’s true I didn’t come to Washington, I came to Beijing. Well, someday I’m going to go to Washington, but not this week.”
“加州在带头，中国在带头，”布朗说。“的确，我没有去华盛顿，而是来了北京。不过，我总有一天要去华盛顿，但不是这周。”
Mr. Brown has spent the past several days traveling around China to meet with Chinese officials about efforts to reduce carbon emissions and promote green technologies. He signed agreements with officials in the southwestern province of Sichuan and the eastern province of Jiangsu.
过去几天里，布朗一直在中国各地访问，与中国官员会面，讨论减少碳排放、促进绿色技术的努力。他与西南地区四川省的官员以及东部地区江苏省的官员签定了协议。
California operates a cap-and-trade market, allowing companies to buy and sell greenhouse gas emission allowances, making it more costly for companies to emit at high levels, and China plans to start a national emissions trading plan by the end of this year. Mr. Xi welcomed greater Californian participation in China’s efforts to clean up its pollution, Mr. Brown said, but he added that their discussions did not go into details.
加州已经开设了一个“排放限额与交易”市场，公司可以在市场上购买和出售自己的温室气体排放配额，这将让公司的高排放有更高的成本，中国计划在今年年底前启动本国的排放交易计划。习近平对加州更多地参与中国清理污染的努力表示欢迎，布朗说，但他补充说，他们两人的讨论没有进入更详细的层次。
“I believe that he definitely gave the green light for more collaboration between China and California, and I would say other states, through this subnational arrangement,” Mr. Brown said of Mr. Xi.
“我相信，他明确地为让中国与加州、我觉得也包括其他州通过国家层次之下的协议进行更多的合作开了绿灯，”布朗说，他指的是习近平。
Mr. Brown said he had a relationship with Mr. Xi that traces its roots back to his first stint as governor of California in the 1970s, when he met Mr. Xi’s father, Xi Zhongxun, a senior Chinese official who visited the state. Mr. Brown said he met Mr. Xi himself when he came to California for a summit meeting with President Barack Obama at the Sunnylands estate in 2013.
布朗说，他与习近平的关系可追溯到20世纪70年他首次担任加州州长的年代，布朗曾在那时与习近平的父亲、到访加州的中国高级官员习仲勋见过面。布朗说，2013年，习近平来加州“阳光之乡”庄园与贝拉克·奥巴马总统举行峰会时，他也曾与习近平本人见面。
“I think there is a good feeling between us,” Mr. Brown said.
“我觉得，我们之间有好感，”布朗说。