HONG KONG — China’s latest display of ambition in space involves sending a Jade Rabbit roaming across the Bay of Rainbows.
香港——中国发射“玉兔号”月球车探测彩虹湾，这是中国展示太空野心的最新举措。
A rocket blasted off from southwest China early Monday, carrying the country’s first robotic lunar rover, the Jade Rabbit, which will explore a plain on the moon that, despite its colorful name, is a dark expanse of hardened lava.
周一凌晨，携带中国首辆机器人月球车“玉兔号”的火箭在中国西南部发射升空。“玉兔号”月球车将探测月球上的一个平原，那个平原虽然拥有美好的名字，但却只是一大片漆黑的硬化岩浆。
If successful, the Chang’e-3 mission will be China’s first “soft landing” on the moon — which allows a craft to operate after descending — and the first such landing by any country since 1976, when the Soviet Union sent a probe. The last American expedition on the moon’s surface was a manned visit in 1972. Chinese state-run television broadcast footage of the rocket’s untroubled launch and ascent into space, where the Chang’e-3 craft set off toward the moon.
如果取得成功，嫦娥三号任务将成为中国的第一次月面“软着陆”——即航天器在着陆后可以进行操作——也将成为1976年苏联发射探测器后的首次月面软着陆。美国的上一次月面探索活动是1972年开展的载人探月行动。中国国家电视台播放了嫦娥三号顺利发射并进入太空的影像，嫦娥三号航天器开始向月球进发。
“If it’s all successful, it will certainly indicate that they have really come up the learning curve in terms of technology,” said Joan Johnson-Freese, a professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College in Rhode Island who researches China’s space activities. Professor Johnson-Freese emphasized that she was giving her own views.
美国海军战争学院(United States Naval War College)国家安全事务教授约翰逊-弗里兹(Johnson-Freese)表示，“如果取得完全的成功，这足以说明中国确实达到了相关技术学习曲线的高处。”研究中国太空活动的约翰逊-弗里兹强调，这只是她自己的观点。该学院位于罗德岛。
“China’s getting a lot of prestige, which turns into geostrategic influence, from the fact that they are the third country to have manned spaceflight capabilities, that they are going to the moon,” she said.
她说，“中国是第三个拥有载人航天能力的国家，如今又在探测月球，这一事实将为中国赢得很多声望，这种声望又会转变成地缘政治影响。”
The Chinese state-run news media has responded to the launch from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center with an outpouring of jubilation. That is likely to reach a crescendo in about two weeks, when the landing vehicle is scheduled to descend on the moon and release the Jade Rabbit, or Yutu, robotic rover to start sending back data and pictures from Sinus Iridum, or the Bay of Rainbows, a basaltic plain formed from lava that filled a crater.
中国官方媒体大肆歌颂西昌卫星发射中心的发射行动。这样的歌颂可能会在大约两周之后达到顶点，按照计划，着陆航天器届时会在月球降落，并释放“玉兔号”。这辆月球车将开始从虹湾（又名彩虹湾）发回数据和图片，虹湾是岩浆在火山口形成的一个玄武岩平原。
But as well as patriotic pride, China’s space activities are generating skills to enhance the country’s science, satellites and military, experts said. China’s advances in space include five manned flights, which are intended to pave the way for a space station. The country is also developing an array of new satellites, including the BeiDou navigation system that will have a chain of 35 satellites. Many of the advances used for better rockets and space guidance can be applied in missiles.
但专家们表示，除了民族自豪感之外，中国的太空活动带来的技术还有助于加强该国科学、卫星及军事方面的发展。中国的太空活动进展包括五次载人航天飞行，旨在为建立空间站铺平道路。中国正在研发一系列新卫星，比如由35个卫星组成的北斗导航系统。用于改进火箭及宇宙航行导引的很多技术进展都可以用于导弹。
“Simple prestige is certainly a key driver in a lot of China’s space programs, in particular the manned space program,” said Mark Stokes, the executive director of the Project 2049 Institute, a research organization in Washington focused on security issues in Asia. “It’s also a way to mobilize resources and to concentrate resources in a way that could result in certain types of spinoff technologies.”
“赢得声望肯定是促使中国开展大量太空项目的主要动力，特别是载人航天项目，”华盛顿2049项目研究所(Project 2049 Institute)主任石明凯(Mark Stokes)说。“此外，这也是调动资源、集中资源的一种方式，能够带来某些派生技术。”该研究机构主要研究亚洲的安全问题。
Above all, China has been learning how to orchestrate complicated engineering tasks and to surmount the poor bureaucratic coordination that has often frustrated such efforts, said Dean Cheng, a senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation in Washington who has studied China’s space programs.
研究中国太空项目的传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)高级研究员成斌(Dean Cheng)说，最重要的是，中国一直在学习如何组织复杂的工程任务，克服官僚机构低效协作所带来的问题，这些问题往往会对此类工作造成阻碍。
“We in the U.S., in the West, tend to focus on the widget aspect of China’s space progress,” Mr. Cheng said. “But I would say that what we sometimes miss is how important these organizational changes are. All the Chinese space efforts are efforts at improving their systems engineering.”
“谈到中国在太空领域取得的进步时，我们这些在美国、在西方国家的人关注的通常是航天器，”成斌说。“但我想说的是，有些时候，我们忽视了这些组织上的变化有多重要。中国在太空领域的所有工作都是为了改进他们的系统工程。”
China’s military drives the country’s space program, and that has caused wariness among Western governments. Suspicions have been magnified by allegations that China has stolen information for its space and missile programs. Congress passed a law in 2011 that bans the National Aeronautics and Space Administration from developing bilateral contacts with China, although multilateral contacts are not proscribed.
在中国，是军方在推动太空项目发展，这种现象也引起了西方政府的担心。由于中国曾被指通过窃取信息来发展航天和导弹项目，这种疑虑随之增加。2011年，美国国会通过法律，禁止国家航空航天局(NASA)与中国发展双边关系，尽管发展多边关系尚未被禁。
But China’s program has reached a point where deeper cooperation with the United States or Russia would make little difference, said Gregory Kulacki, China project manager at the Union of Concerned Scientists. He nonetheless supports closer contacts to foster cooperation and reduce mistrust. “They don’t really need to rely on any outside sources to continue to make the progress that they’re making,” Mr. Kulacki said.
但是，忧思科学家联盟(Union of Concerned Scientists)的中国项目经理顾克冈(Gregory Kulacki)说，中国的项目已经发展到了是否与美国或俄罗斯进一步展开合作都没有太大关系的程度。尽管如此，他还是支持双方建立更加密切的联系，促进合作、减少猜疑。顾克冈说，“他们并不真的需要借助外部资源来继续取得当前的进步。”
China established a foothold in space in 1970, when a small, primitive satellite beamed back an ode to Mao Zedong, “The East is Red.” From the 1980s, the Communist Party leadership began to develop bigger plans, and in 2003, China sent its first astronaut into space. China has since carried out four more manned missions.
1970年，中国在太空建立了立足点，用一台装备原始的小卫星发回了给毛泽东的颂歌《东方红》。20世纪80年代，中国共产党领导层开始发展规模更大的项目；2003年，中国将第一名宇航员送入太空。那次之后，中国又执行了四次载人航天任务。
The Chang’e lunar exploration program, named after a moon goddess, began in 2007 with a craft that orbited the moon, and the Cheng’e-2 mission launched in 2010 sent back more detailed images of the moon, including of the area where Chang’e-3 will land. (The Chang’e-1 craft hurtled into the moon in a controlled, hard landing in 2009.)
以月亮女神命名的嫦娥探月项目始于2007年，当时发射了一个绕月运行的航天器，发射于2010年的嫦娥二号发回了更详细的月球图片，其中还包括嫦娥三号着陆区的图片。（2009年，嫦娥一号飞船在月面实现了受控硬着陆。）
For the Chang’e-3 mission, the rover — a solar-powered, six-wheeled vehicle similar to ones the United States has sent to Mars — will spend three months exploring, using radar to collect data on rocks up to 328 feet below the surface, Ouyang Ziyuan, a senior consultant to the mission, told China’s state-run Xinhua news agency. A future mission that could take place in several years would be intended to bring back rocks and other samples from the moon.
嫦娥三号任务的月球车由太阳能驱动，有六个轮子，和美国发送到火星上的探测器相似。此次任务的高级顾问欧阳自远告诉中国国家通讯社新华社，月球车将花三个月的时间来探索月球，使用雷达搜集月球表面以下深达328英尺（约合100米）处的岩石数据。中国还可能在未来数年内完成另一项任务，即把月球上的岩石和其他样本带回地球。