HONG KONG — Tujia, China’s equivalent of the property-rental site Airbnb, has raised $300 million in its latest round of funding, valuing the start-up at more than $1 billion, the company said on Monday.
香港——相当于中国版Airbnb的途家网周一宣布，该公司在最近一轮融资中获得3亿美元投资，公司估值超过10亿美元。
The fund-raising was led by the Hong Kong-based All-Stars Investment, which has also invested in the smartphone maker Xiaomi and the taxi-hailing app Didi Kuaidi.
这轮融资由总部在香港的全明星投资基金(All-Stars Investment)领投，该基金的其他投资项目包括智能手机厂商小米和打车服务软件滴滴快的。
Luo Jun, one of Tujia’s founders, said the financing would be used to promote its brand and develop its online and offline platforms. Tujia is China’s largest website for vacation property rentals, but it is more involved in the maintenance and verification of properties than services like Airbnb.
途家联合创始人罗军表示，这轮融资主要用于推广品牌和进行线上线下平台的建设。途家是中国最大的度假房屋租赁平台，但与Airbnb等其他服务相比，它会更多地参与线下房产的维护与核实。
“This new round of financing shows that the Chinese market has fully accepted the vacation-rental industry led by Tujia,” Mr. Luo said in a news release.
“新一轮融资表明，中国市场对于途家所引领的度假房屋租赁行业，已经给予了充分的认可，”罗军在新闻稿中谈到。
China’s tourism industry has been growing fast. Spending on domestic trips rose to 3 trillion renminbi, or about $483 billion, in 2014, from 528 billion renminbi in 2005, according to government data.
中国的旅游产业一直在快速增长。来自政府机构的数据显示，国内旅游消费额已经从2005年的5280亿元人民币，增长至2014年的3万亿元，约合4830亿美元。
Richard Ji, a co-founder of All-Stars Investment, said he saw potential in the Tujia model because a weakening property market in China means there are more rooms available to rent.
全明星投资联合创始人季卫东(Richard Ji)表示，他在途家模式中看到了很大潜力，因为中国房地产市场日渐疲软，这意味着会有更多可供租赁的房屋。
“There’s a deep pipeline of room supply,” he said. “The local government tends to be the largest landlord and they want Tujia to help them absorb the vacancies.”
“租赁房源会源源不断，”他说。“地方政府往往是最大的房东，他们希望途家这样的公司帮助他们降低房屋空置率。”
Tujia is also starting to offer rentals overseas for Chinese travelers. It has teamed up with the Texas-based holiday listing site HomeAway to translate its property listings into Mandarin, which will give Tujia access to properties outside of China. Some of this round of funding also came from The Ascott, which manages luxury serviced apartments around the world.
途家也开始为赴海外旅游的中国游客提供租赁服务。它已经和总部位于德克萨斯州的度假租赁网站HomeAway达成合作，将该网站上的房产清单翻译成中文，这让途家有了直接获取海外房源的途径。这轮融资还有一部分资金来自雅诗阁(The Ascott)集团，后者在全球范围内管理着各种豪华酒店式公寓。