One of Hong Kong’s busiest shopping streets winds past the Times Square center, under slick signs for brands like Mont Blanc, Cartier, Gucci and Burberry.
香港时代广场地处香港最繁华一条购物街，街道两旁满是万宝龙(Mont Blanc)、卡地亚(Cartier)、古驰(Gucci)和博柏利(Burberry)等品牌光鲜的标志。
But inside the towering luxury mall, the hum of the crowds below fades into the quiet of rows of mostly empty boutiques.
但在这座高耸的奢华商场内部，完全不同于街道上熙熙攘攘的景象，商场里一排排的店铺安安静静，大多门可罗雀。
A sales attendant greeted a few people outside a Chanel shop. “I’m sorry, you have to queue,” she said, waving her hand toward a seemingly imaginary line of shoppers. But few people entered the store on what would usually be a bustling weekend shopping day.
一位销售员招呼香奈儿(Chanel)店外的几个人。“对不起，你们要排队，”她向顾客挥着手说。但所谓的队列，似乎只是她的想象。以往，周末购物的顾客常常人头攒动，但现在进店的客人却相当稀少。
Boom times for luxury in China are largely over, after the recent stock market rout and currency devaluation, compounded by an already slowing economy and a government crackdown on lavish gift-giving. The effect of those woes on Chinese shoppers — who make up as much as a third of global spending on high-end goods — has rattled both investors and global luxury brands.
中国经济已经放缓，政府对大手笔送礼的现象进行了遏制，再加上近期股市大跌和货币贬值，奢侈品在中国的好时光基本上已经完结。鉴于全球高端商品的三分之一都被中国顾客买走，中国消费者面临的这些困难，已经让投资者和全球奢侈品牌感到惊慌。
The quieter scenes at Times Square and other luxury department stores in Hong Kong paint a stark contrast to the fevered spending of recent years, when young, upwardly mobile Chinese seemed to have insatiable appetites for Chanel handbags and Hermès scarves.
时代广场和香港其他奢侈百货店的安静景象，与前几年的狂热购物场面形成了鲜明对比。那时，经济地位正在提升的中国年轻人对香奈儿手袋和爱马仕(Hermès)丝巾的需求似乎无休无止。
After growing by double digits in the last decade, spending on luxury goods in China contracted for the first time last year to about $18 billion, shrinking 1 percent, according to the consultancy Bain & Company.
贝恩咨询公司(Bain& Company)的数据显示，过去十年里，中国的奢侈品消费出现了两位数的增长，但去年首次出现了萎缩，减少了1%，缩水至180亿美元（约1150亿元人民币）。
On top of the market turmoil, moves by the Chinese government to devalue the renminbi and concerns over further rounds of devaluation cast a new pall on the luxury marketplace.
除了市场下滑之外，中国政府将人民币贬值的举措，以及人们对于继续贬值的担忧，又给奢侈品市场蒙上了一层新的阴影。
“This is going to hit hard,” said David Friedman, the president of Wealth-X, a luxury intelligence firm. Mr. Friedman, who is based in New York, added, “It’s the straw that breaks the camel’s back for luxury brands that looked at the Chinese consumer as a driver of their revenue growth.”
“这将造成严重的打击，”奢侈品商业情报公司Wealth-X的总裁戴维·弗里德曼(David Friedman)说。“一些奢侈品牌把中国消费者作为营收增长的推动力，对于他们来说，这是压垮骆驼的那根稻草。”弗里德曼居住在纽约。
“Is the Chinese consumer still incredibly important to luxury brands? The answer is absolutely yes. But is the Chinese consumer over the next several years going to be the same economic juggernaut of consumption for these brands? The answer is no.”
“对于奢侈品牌来说，中国消费者是否仍然非常重要呢？答案绝对是肯定的。但在未来几年里，中国消费者是否仍会成为这些品牌的大买主呢？答案是否定的。”
These jitters stem from how disproportionately global luxury brands have leaned on China for growth. Greater China drives as much as 25 percent of sales at Burberry, and 20 percent of sales at Prada, according to estimates by Exane BNP Paribas. The Swatch Group, whose brands include Omega, Harry Winston and Balmain, derives as much as 35 percent of its sales in mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau.
导致这种焦虑的原因，在于全球奢侈品牌的增长，对中国的依赖性高得出奇。法国巴黎银行旗下的Exane估计，大中华区的销售额占博柏利全球销售额的25%，占普拉达(Prada)的20%。斯沃琪集团(Swatch Group)在中国内地、香港和澳门的销售额，占其总销售额的35%。该集团旗下品牌有欧米茄(Omega)、海瑞温斯顿(Harry Winston)和宝曼(Balmain)等。
Those percentages would be even higher if they took account of all the luxury goods that Chinese tourists snap up overseas, where items are often cheaper than in Beijing or Shanghai, where shoppers must pay import duties. According to Bain, nearly half of Chinese luxury spending occurs outside China.
再算上中国游客出境购买的各种奢侈品，这些比例还会更高。在北京或上海购买奢侈品需要支付进口关税，所以出国购买往往更加便宜。贝恩公司的资料显示，中国人近一半的奢侈品消费发生在境外。
A weaker renminbi would make it more expensive for Chinese consumers not just to buy foreign luxury products in China, but also to travel overseas to cities like New York or Milan to buy luxury goods. A shakier economy and market turmoil back home would damp travel, as well as demand.
人民币走弱之后，中国消费者不仅在国内购买外国奢侈品会变得昂贵，前往纽约、米兰等城市购买奢侈品也是如此。经济不稳和市场动荡既会影响需求，也同样会抑制旅行。
“Things are becoming more expensive, people are traveling less, and market turmoil is causing people to retrench and think about their luxury spending,” said Simeon Siegel, a senior equity analyst in specialty retailing and luxury for Nomura Securities. “So you walk down Fifth Avenue, and you see emptier stores.”
“东西越来越贵，人们减少了出行，而且市场动荡促使人们缩减开支，在奢侈品消费方面也会多加考虑，”野村证券(Nomura Securities)专卖零售及奢侈品领域的高级股票分析师西蒙·西格尔(Simeon Siegel)说。“所以在第五大道，就看到店铺里顾客减少了。”
Still, it is important to keep the effects of the market rout and devaluation in perspective, said Luca Solca, head of global luxury goods at Exane BNP Paribas. According to simulations run by Mr. Solca, a 5 percent devaluation of the renminbi would push sales down less than 1 percent at most global luxury brands he tracks, including Burberry, Hermès, Prada, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton and the Swatch Group.
尽管如此，还是不应该夸大股市重挫和货币贬值的效应，Exane的全球奢侈品研究主管卢卡·索尔卡(Luca Solca)说。根据索尔卡的模拟，对于他追踪研究的多数全球奢侈品牌来说，人民币贬值5%，压低的销售额不足1%。他研究的品牌包括博柏利、爱马仕、普拉达、酩悦·轩尼诗-路易·威登集团( LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton)和斯沃琪集团。
Even a 20 percent devaluation of the renminbi would hardly make a dent of 5 percent in those companies’ sales, according to Mr. Solca’s calculations.
根据索尔卡的计算，即使人民币贬值20%，也才勉强影响这些公司销售额的5%。
“It is often the case that markets react harshly to major surprises, a sort of ‘Shoot first, ask questions later’ approach,” Mr. Solca said. “This looks like financial turmoil, not turmoil in the real economy. If it continues to grow, though, it will at one point have an impact on the real world, too.”
“对于重大意外情况，市场往往会反应过激，就好像是在‘先行动，再思考’，”索尔卡说。“现在似乎像是金融领域的风暴，不是实体经济中的风暴。不过，如果它继续发酵，迟早会对现实世界产生影响。”
Zhou Ting, director of the Fortune Character Institute, a research firm based in Shanghai that publishes the annual China Luxury Report, said she expected Chinese luxury tourism to continue despite the market uncertainties and the renminbi’s drop in value.
总部设在上海的研究公司财富品质研究院每年都会发布中国奢侈品报告。其院长周婷表示，尽管市场存在不确定性，人民币有所贬值，但她预计中国奢侈品出境购物游的热潮仍将持续。
Chinese travelers are drawn overseas partly by a hunt for value, she explained. Because of high tariffs, a Furla luxury handbag her firm examined recently cost $310, or 1,980 renminbi, with the steepest discounts available in China, but it sells for just a third of that price at the Leonardo da Vinci airport in Rome.
她解释说，中国游客出境游的部分目的是省钱。该研究院最近的调查显示，由于中国关税较高，一个Furla奢侈手袋在国内的最大折扣价为1980元人民币，但在罗马达芬奇机场的售价，仅为该价格的三分之一。
“The new yuan depreciation is not nearly enough to deter the very strong urge of Chinese shoppers to buy luxury goods overseas,” she said.
“人民币最近的贬值，远远不会抑制中国消费者出境购买奢侈品的强烈冲动，”她说。