WUHAN, China — Need more evidence that China is a global force in technology? Just listen for the low whine of tiny propellers.
中国武汉——需要更多证据证明中国是全球科技界的重要力量？只需要听听微小螺旋桨低沉的嗡嗡声就行了。
And look up.
还有，往上看。
At the World Fly-In Expo, an air show held in the central Chinese city of Wuhan last month, jets, hot air balloons, autogiros and ultralight planes were upstaged by Chinese-made drones.
上个月，在中国中部城市武汉举行的世界飞行者大会(World Fly-In Expo)上，喷气式飞机、热气球、旋翼机和超轻型飞机都被中国制造的无人机抢去了风头。
Remote-controlled flying machines drew crowds at exhibition booths and performed in tight formation, high above the ground. Teams in brightly colored jackets raced industrial drones and competed in events like delivering parcels and spraying plumes of mock pesticide.
遥控飞行器吸引了大批观众来到展位，它们在高空以密集的队形表演。身着色彩鲜艳的夹克衫的工作团队操控工业用无人机快速飞行，展开运送包裹和喷洒仿制杀虫剂等项目的竞赛。
Special drones even helped clear the skies of birds before performances by manned aircraft, using loud blasts of noise.
在有人驾驶的飞机表演之前，特殊的无人机还通过播放巨大噪音帮助赶走上空的鸟群。
China is the world leader in drones thanks largely to a single company, D.J.I. Founded in 2006, D.J.I. has grown to account for more than 70 percent of the global market, according to Skylogic Research, a drone research firm.
中国在全球无人机领域的领先地位很大程度上要归功于大疆公司(DJI)。无人机研究公司Skylogic Research的数据显示，成立于2006年的大疆公司目前在全球市场上所占的份额已超过70%。
The privately owned company used cheap prices to cement its market share and is frequently lauded as an example of China’s ability to compete toe to toe with global rivals in the technology sphere. While it does not disclose financial results, it enjoys financial backing from Silicon Valley investors and has access to suppliers and talent in China’s southern manufacturing belt. D.J.I.’s easy-to-fly machines, which can buzz over beaches and hover above scenic mountainscapes, are used by hobbyists and professional photographers alike.
这家私营企业通过低廉的价格巩固自己的市场份额，经常被誉为中国具备在技术领域与全球竞争对手较量的能力的例证。虽然它没有披露财务业绩，但它得到了硅谷投资者的资金支持，并且拥有中国南方制造业产业带的供应商和人才。大疆公司易于飞行的机器可以在海滩上空飞行，也可以在风景秀丽的山上盘旋，受到业余爱好者和专业摄影师的青睐。
China’s drone economy is not just about selfies and aerial video, however.
不过，中国的无人机经济不只是用于自拍和航拍视频。
Drones in China inspect power lines, survey fires and disaster zones, spray crops, and monitor air pollution around factories. In some remote areas, they have delivered packages. Online retailers and logistics companies are aiming to expand drone deliveries by signing more agreements with local governments.
在中国，无人机被用于检查电缆，调查火情和灾区，给农作物喷洒农药，以及监测工厂周围的空气污染情况。在一些偏远地区，它被用于快递包裹。在线零售商和物流公司正在与地方政府签订更多的协议，以扩大无人机送货的范围。
In Wuhan, the Ewatt Aerospace Flight Academy is expanding. The school, which is run by the industrial-drone maker Ewatt, was the first in China to be accredited to issue the license needed to pilot heavy industrial drones. Its one-month course attracts people who hope to work either for a drone maker or for another kind of company that needs drone operators.
在武汉，易瓦特航空飞行学院正在扩张。该校由工业无人机制造商易瓦特公司主办，是中国第一个有资格颁发操纵重工业无人机所需执照的学校。它为期一个月的课程吸引了那些希望为无人机制造商或其他需要无人机操作员的公司工作的人。
“More and more people want to learn,” said the school’s dean, Li Chunfei.
“越来越多的人想学，”院长李春飞说。
They are starting earlier and earlier, too. At Zhongjiacun elementary school in downtown Wuhan, Xiong Sheyu, 11, is a member of the drone club. Under the supervision of a teacher, Yang Lei, students meet every Sunday to fly commercial drones.
他们开始学习的时间也越来越早。在武汉市区的钟家村小学，11岁的熊社玉是学校无人机俱乐部的成员。在教师杨磊的指导下，学生们每周日都聚在一起，操纵商用无人机。
They also build their own, which look like giant paper airplanes.
他们还制作了自己的无人机，看起来就像巨大的纸飞机。
From the school’s playground, Sheyu sends one of them soaring, a Chinese flag in tow. With a remote control, he steers it among the concrete buildings. The cardboard plane, held together by tape and glue, hangs in the air for around 10 minutes.
在学校的操场上，熊社玉将其中一架无人机升到空中，机尾上贴着中国国旗。他通过遥控器，操纵它在混凝土建筑中间穿梭。那架用胶带和胶水粘起来的硬纸板飞机在空中盘旋了约十分钟。
“I love to see the world from the sky,” Sheyu said.
“我喜欢从空中看世界，”熊社玉说。
His father, Xiong Pinggao, added: “Learning to fly drones can make him prouder of the country.”
他的父亲熊平高补充说：“学会操纵无人机让他更为祖国感到骄傲。”
At the air show, Sam Zhang and Yuan Jiajie laid out more than 100 white drones on a grassy field, preparing for the evening’s entertainment. The two men work for Ehang, a Guangzhou-based company that makes consumer and commercial drones. Ehang is also testing another drone — a small, unmanned helicopter, essentially — that can fly a passenger for 25 minutes at an average speed of 37 miles an hour.
在航空展上，山姆·张(Sam Zhang)和袁家杰（音）在草地上布置了100多架白色无人机，为当晚的娱乐活动做准备。他们俩为广州的亿航公司工作，该公司生产民用和商用无人机。亿航还在测试另一种无人机——基本上是一种小型无人驾驶直升机，它能搭载一名乘客以每小时37英里的平均速度飞行25分钟。
Another business for Ehang: light shows. Mr. Zhang drives a blue truck loaded with equipment all around China, filling the skies above private parties and government events with swarms of colorfully lit drones.
亿航的另一项业务是灯光秀。山姆·张开着一辆装满器材的蓝色卡车在中国各地漫游，用大群亮着彩灯的无人机在天空中宣传私人派对和政府活动的消息。
As night falls in Wuhan, Mr. Zhang and Mr. Yuan take their controls. Like a regiment of fireflies, the drones lift off from the ground. They form words and shapes — a plane; a bird’s wings; the letters “WFE,” for World Fly-In Expo — and make the sky dance and swirl with light.
随着夜幕降临武汉，山姆·张和袁家杰开始登场。那些无人机像一团萤火虫，从地面起飞。它们组成各种文字和形状——飞机；鸟儿的翅膀；代表世界飞行者大会的字母“WFE”——灯光在天空中跳跃、旋转。