KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — It may not rank alongside the names of Brazil or Barcelona, but China is hoping to take its place in the annals of soccer history.
马来西亚吉隆坡——虽然中国的排名也许不能与巴西或巴塞罗那相提并论，但该国正希望在足球史册上占据一席地位。
On Monday, the National Development and Reform Commission of China released a plan to give the country one of the world’s leading national teams by 2050. The first stage, already underway, is to introduce soccer to 20,000 schools, with 30 million children playing the game regularly by the end of the decade.
周一，中国的国家发展和改革委员会公布了一项计划，到2050年让中国拥有一只世界领先的国家足球队。计划的第一阶段已经开始，就是建设2万所足球特色学校，到2020年让经常参加足球运动的儿童人数达到3000万。
The midterm stage, to take place from 2021 to 2030, is for the men to become one of the standout teams in Asia.
中期阶段是2021年至2030年，届时中国男足将成为亚洲的出色球队之一。
Apart from reaching the final of the 2004 Asian Cup on home soil, China has never been that type of team. The national team has long been in the shadow of its regional rivals South Korea and Japan, which also has a plan to be world champion by 2050.
除了2004年在本土举办的亚洲杯赛上进入决赛外，中国男足从来都不是出色的球队。中国队长期以来一直被区域性对手韩国队和日本队的光彩所掩盖，男足的计划是在2050年成为世界冠军。
“The Chinese sports industry is developing,” Gao Hongbo, the national team coach, said in March as China progressed to the final round of qualification for the 2018 World Cup, ending a run of three successive failed attempts to reach that stage. “The Chinese government, including the sports and education ministries, support football more and are paying attention to youth development. If we continue like this, China will become very strong.”
“中国的体育事业正在发展，”国家队主教练高洪波3月份曾表示，当时中国男足已进入2018年世界杯预选赛的最后一轮，结束了晋级该阶段的三次连续的失败尝试。“包括体育和教育部门在内的中国政府给予了足球更多的支持，越来越重视青少年的发展。如果我们继续这样下去，中国将成为足球强国。”
China managed to get through the second round of qualification as one of the best runners-up in its group.
中国队在亚洲区预选赛头一轮的分组赛上以小组第二名的资格出线。
There has been plenty of action in the Chinese Super League. After five years of rising spending, the league as a whole paid around $300 million in the winter on foreign players like Alex Teixeira of Brazil and Jackson Martínez of Colombia.
中国足球协会超级联赛已经采取了很多行动。经过五年不断上升的开支，超联在冬季总共支付给外籍球员、比如巴西的阿列克斯·特谢拉(Alex Teixeira)和哥伦比亚的杰克逊·马丁内斯(Jackson Martínez)等人的工资已约3亿美元（近20亿元人民币）。
Guangzhou Evergrande has won two of the past three Asian Champions League titles, and there is a rising number of famous coaches in the league, such as Luiz Felipe Scolari, the 2002 World Cup winner with Brazil, and Sven-Goran Eriksson, the former head coach of England’s national team.
广州恒大已在过去三届亚足联冠军联赛中两次获得冠军，中国超联上也出现了越来越多的著名教练，比如曾带领巴西队获得2002年世界杯冠军的路易斯·菲利佩·斯科拉里(Luiz Felipe Scolari)，以及英格兰国家队前主教练斯文-格兰·埃里克森(Sven-Goran Eriksson)。
Andy Roxburgh of Scotland was UEFA’s technical director from 1994 to 2012 before taking the same post with the Asian Football Confederation. Roxburgh is responsible for raising standards in the region and believes that while the spending is important, the best soccer nations have multifaceted approaches to success.
苏格兰人安迪·罗克斯堡(Andy Roxburgh)曾在1994年至2012年间担任欧洲足球协会联盟(UEFA)的技术总监，后在亚洲足球联合会担任同样的职务。罗克斯堡的责任之一是提高亚洲地区的足球水平，他认为，虽然开支很重要，但最好的足球国家是从多方面考虑如何成功的。
“The investment that is taking place is very important,” Roxburgh said. “You have to remember, though, that other teams are moving forward, too. South Korea, Iran, Japan and Australia are improving and have their own plans.”
“正在进行的投资非常重要，”罗克斯堡说。“但是，必须记住，其他球队也在向前推进。韩国、伊朗、日本和澳大利亚都在改进，也都有自己的计划。”
China will get a chance to test itself against South Korea on Sept. 1, in the first match of the final round on the road to the 2018 World Cup in Russia. China has won just once in 29 meetings with South Korea. The Korean coach, Uli Stielike, who is expecting a tough game, said it was not inevitable that China would become a continental powerhouse.
今年9月1日，中国队将得到检验自己的机会，在进军俄罗斯举办的2018年世界杯的道路上，中国队将在亚洲预选赛最后一轮比赛上首战韩国。在与韩国队的29次比赛中，中国队只赢过一次。韩国队主教练乌利·斯蒂利克(Uli Stielike)预计这将是一场艰苦的比赛，但他说，中国队成为亚洲强队并非是必然结果。
“China can be strong if they have the right plan, but only if they have the right plan,” Stielike said. “I am not going to tell them what this is, but, sure, they have potential. The clubs have been spending money, but that is only one part.”
“如果他们有正确计划的话，中国队可以成为强队，但前提是他们有正确的计划，”斯蒂利克说。“我不会告诉他们什么是正确的计划，但可肯定的是，他们有潜力。中国的足球俱乐部舍得花钱，但那只是其中的一部分。”
Japan, a four-time Asian champion, is also wary of an eventual Chinese challenge, but is not looking over its shoulder just yet.
四度获得亚洲冠军的日本队，对最终来自中国的挑战也保持警惕，但就目前而言，还没有多少担心。
“China could catch Japan one day, but we started a long time ago,” said Masahiro Shimoda, Japan’s national team director.
“中国有朝一日可能赶上日本，但我们在很久以前就不错了，”日本国家队总监正弘下田说。
Roxburgh said he believed that China’s resources — its people and its finances — would make the difference.
罗克斯堡说，他相信中国的人力和财力资源将会起作用。
“It is certainly possible for China to become one of the best in Asia and the world,” he said. “Where there is a will, there is a way, and China has the will. It just has to find the way.”
“中国队成为亚洲和世界上最好球队之一，当然是有可能的，”他说。“有志者，事竟成，中国有这种志愿。它只是需要找到方法。”