The Chinese forestry authority said on Friday that it would phase out entirely the country’s domestic ivory trade, making the announcement at an event in Beijing in which nearly 1,500 pounds of confiscated elephant tusks and ivory carvings were crushed.
中国林业部门周五在北京的一次活动上表示，将逐步采取措施，彻底取缔中国国内的象牙贸易。在这次活动上，近1500磅（约合680公斤）被查没的象牙和象牙雕刻品被压碎。
The destruction came a day after the renowned Chinese pianist Lang Lang urged travelers not to bring ivory back to China in an awareness campaign at the Beijing Capital International Airport.
在这次销毁活动的前一天，中国知名钢琴家朗朗在北京首都国际机场一场旨在提高人们意识的活动上，呼吁游客不要把象牙带回中国。
“Under the legal framework of Cites and domestic laws and regulations, we will strictly control ivory processing and trade until the commercial processing and sale of ivory and its products are eventually halted,” Zhao Shucong, the minister of the State Forestry Administration, said in a speech at the Beijing event, referring to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species. He did not give a time frame.
“在《濒危野生动植物种国际贸易公约》(Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species，简称Cites)和国内相关法律法规框架范围内，严格控制象牙加工和贸易，直至停止商业性加工、销售象牙及其制品活动，”中国国家林业局局长赵树丛在北京的活动中发表讲话时说。但他未给出期限。
This was the third batch of contraband ivory destroyed in China over the past 18 months, part of a continuing effort to curb the illegal ivory trade. That effort has been praised by international conservation groups, as China is widely believed to be the world’s largest consumer market for illegal ivory products, according to a report by Cites.
这是中国在过去18个月里销毁的第三批走私象牙，是一场打击非法象牙贸易的整体行动的一部分。该行动受到了国际环保团体的称赞，因为从Cites的一份报告来看，中国被广泛认为是全世界最大的非法象牙制品市场。
In an online statement from the World Wildlife Fund, Ginette Hemley, the senior vice president of wildlife conservation, said it was “very encouraging to see the world’s largest consumer of ivory showing leadership at a time when the illegal ivory trade is leading to unprecedented elephant poaching across Africa.”
在世界自然基金会(World Wildlife Fund)发布在网上的一则声明中，负责野生动物保护的高级副主席吉内特·赫姆利(Ginette Hemley)称，“在非法象牙贸易导致非洲各地出现了史无前例的大象偷猎活动之际，看到全世界最大的象牙消费国正在起带头作用非常振奋人心。”
“China should make good on its intentions to close its domestic ivory market by setting in place a firm plan and timeline, one that does not spur an even greater rush to launder ivory through the legal system before it closes,” she said.The ivory destruction on Friday, which was co-organized by the country’s forestry and customs authorities, followed the crushing of 6.2 tons of illegal ivory in the southern city of Dongguan in January of last year, the first public destruction of its kind in China. Hong Kong began the incineration of nearly 30 tons of ivory last May. The ivory destroyed Friday had been seized in various law enforcement operations since 2014.
“中国应该通过出台明确的计划和时间表，来兑现关闭国内象牙市场的承诺，并且不能刺激人们赶在市场关闭之前，更大规模地通过合法渠道洗白象牙，”她说。周五的象牙销毁活动是由国家林业和海关部门联合组织的。去年1月，南方的东莞市曾销毁6.2吨非法象牙，那是中国首次公开销毁象牙。香港也于去年5月开始销毁近30吨象牙。周五销毁的象牙是在2014年以来的多次执法行动中缴获的。
Yu Guangzhou, minister of the General Administration of Customs, said the destruction would serve as “a starting point” for the agency to “step up the crackdown on illegal trade in ivory and other wildlife.”
国家海关总署署长于广洲说，该机构将以此次活动为“新起点”，“继续加大对象牙等野生动植物非法贸易的打击力度。”
On Thursday, Lang Lang participated in a campaign co-hosted by Beijing airport customs officials and conservation groups including the African Wildlife Foundation, Save the Elephants and WildAid, to urge travelers not to bring ivory back to China.
周四，朗朗参加了一个由北京机场海关和一些环保组织共同发起的行动，倡议旅客不要把象牙制品带回中国。这些环保组织包括非洲野生动物基金会(African Wildlife Foundation)、拯救大象(Save the Elephants)和野生救援(WildAid)。
WildAid’s executive director, Peter Knights, applauded the ivory destruction in an emailed statement Friday.
野生救援理事长奈彼德(Peter Knights)周五在一份通过电子邮件发送的声明中赞赏了这次销毁象牙的举动。
“This is China’s third public ivory crush in 18 months, indicating an increasing effort and resolve from the government,” he said.
“这是中国18个月以来第三次公开销毁象牙，代表着政府日益增强的行动和决心，”他说。