HONG KONG — Chinese stocks don’t really need an extra boost. They have tripled in value over the last year to nearly $10 trillion — overtaking Japan, Hong Kong and Britain and second only to the United States.
香港——中国股市并不需要额外的助推力。它的市值在过去一年中涨了两倍，规模达到近10万亿美元（约合62万亿元人民币），超越了日本、香港和英国，仅次于美国。
But new overseas money may soon pour into the mainland, providing more fuel to the country’s already racing markets.
不过，新的海外资金可能不久就会涌入中国大陆，为该国业已持续飙升的市场提供更多动力。
On Tuesday, MSCI, a company that compiles indexes of stocks and other financial products widely tracked by money managers around the world, said it could soon add China’s domestic shares to its benchmarks.
MSCI明晟集团在周二表示，可能很快会将中国境内的股票纳入其基准指数。MSCI公司编制股票等全球各地的货币经理人广泛关注的金融产品的指数。
Globally, investment funds totaling about $1.5 trillion are pegged to MSCI’s emerging markets index. A decision to include domestic Chinese stocks, or so-called A-shares, in the index means that billions of dollars in new investment will be channeled into mainland China’s markets.
全球有1.5万亿美元的投资基金与MSCI的新兴市场指数挂钩。将中国境内的股票——名为“A股”——纳入MSCI指数的决定意味着，数以亿计的新资金将会进入中国大陆市场。
Before it opens the floodgates, though, MSCI wants to make sure the markets are ready for the money. In the coming months, the company said, it will work with China’s main securities regulator to address the outstanding barriers to foreign investment, and then make a final decision.
不过，在打开闸门之前，MSCI希望确保市场已经做好了接收这些资金的准备。公司表示，未来数月，它将与中国主要的证券监管机构展开合作，以处理外国投资面临的巨大障碍，然后做出最终决定。
“Investors around the world are eager for further liberalization of the China A‐shares market,” Remy Briand, a managing director and global head of research at MSCI, said in a statement. “Because MSCI’s client base is so large and diverse, we have a strong interest in ensuring that remaining issues are addressed in an orderly and transparent way.”
“世界各地的投资者迫切希望中国的A股市场能进一步放开，”MSCI董事总经理、负责全球研究的雷米·布赖恩德(Remy Briand)在声明中称。“因为MSCI的客户群非常庞大而多元，我们有强烈的意愿来保证余下的问题能以一种有序而透明的方式得到处理。”
He said areas of concern included cumbersome investment quotas, restrictions on moving money in and out of the country and the legal status of foreign shareholders. He added that MSCI could make a decision to include Chinese stocks in its indexes before its next scheduled annual review, which takes place a year from now.
他表示，受到关切的领域包括低效的投资额度分配、资金在境内外之间流动的限制，以及外国股东的法律地位。他还称，MSCI有可能会在定于一年后举行的下一次年度审核之前作出决定，把A股纳入其指数。