Every morning at 5:30, Liu Desheng joins a dozen retirees waiting for the express bus to central Beijing from this small city in Hebei Province. They stand at the front of the line but never board, instead waiting as bus after bus pulls up, each picking up 50 people from the ever-lengthening line behind the retirees.
在河北省的这座小城镇，每天早上5点30分，刘德胜（音）就和十几名退休人员一起，等待着开往北京市中心的特快巴士发车。他们站在队伍前面，但一直不上车。每辆巴士停下后，都会载走这些退休人员身后的50人。等车的队列在不断变长。
Around 6:30, their adult children arrive. The line, now snaking down the street, has become an hourlong wait. People cut in, and a shoving match breaks out. But the retirees have saved their children this ordeal. When the next bus pulls up, the young adults take their parents’ places at the head of the line and board first, settling into coveted seats for a 25-mile ride that can take up to three hours.
6点30分左右，他们的成年子女到了。等车的队伍现在已经变成沿街道蜿蜒的长龙，新来的人需要等一个小时。有人插队，有人推搡。但这些退休人员的孩子无需经受这些折腾。下一辆巴士停下时，年轻人换下了父母，因此排在了等车长龙的前面，首先上了车，坐上令人羡慕的座位。40公里长的车程可能会耗时三个小时。
“There’s not much I can contribute to the family anymore,” Mr. Liu, 62, said as his son waved goodbye from a bus window. “He is exhausted every day, so if I can help him get a bit more rest, I’ll do it.”
“我可以为家庭做的贡献不多了，”儿子从车窗挥手告别时，62岁的刘德胜说。“他每天累得不得了，所以如果我能帮上忙，让他多休息一会，我就会帮忙。”
The Liu family’s commuting habit is a small but telling part of a megacity in the making.
对于一个正在形成的特大城市圈，刘家的这种通勤办法虽然是件小事，但却很能说明情况。
For decades,China’s government has tried to limit the size of Beijing, the capital, through draconian residency permits. Now, the government has embarked on an ambitious plan to make Beijing the center of a new supercity of 130 million people.
几十年来，中国政府一直在通过严苛的居住许可制度来努力限制首都北京的人口规模。现在，政府开始启动一项雄心勃勃的计划，要打造一片拥有1.3亿人口的新型超级城市圈，让北京作为它的中心。
The planned megalopolis, a metropolitan area that would be about six times the size of New York’s, is meant to revamp northern China’s economy and become a laboratory for modern urban growth.
计划中的特大都市区旨在重塑华北地区的经济格局，成为现代城市发展的试验田。这个大都会圈的面积将是纽约的六倍。
“The supercity is the vanguard of economic reform,” said Liu Gang, a professor at Nankai University in Tianjin who advises local governments on regional development. “It reflects the senior leadership’s views on the need for integration, innovation and environmental protection.”
“这个超级城市圈是经济改革的排头兵，”天津南开大学教授刘刚说。“这反映了高层领导对整合、创新和环保需求的看法。”刘刚为当地政府提供区域发展方面的建议。
The new region will link the research facilities and creative culture of Beijing with the economic muscle of the port city of Tianjin and the hinterlands of Hebei Province, forcing areas that have never cooperated to work together.
这个新的区域，将把北京的科研设施、创新文化和港口城市天津的经济实力，以及身处腹地的河北省联接起来，让这些从未合作过的地区携手共建。
This month, the Beijing city government announced its part of the plan, vowing to move much of its bureaucracy, as well as factories and hospitals, to the hinterlands in an effort to offset the city’s strict residency limits, easing congestion, and to spread good-paying jobs into less-developed areas.
这个月，北京市政府宣布了自己那部分的计划，决定将大量的政府机构、工厂和医院搬迁到腹地去，以破解北京严格的居住限制，缓解拥堵，并将高薪工作机会带到欠发达地区。
Jing-Jin-Ji, as the region is called (“Jing” for Beijing, “Jin” for Tianjin and “Ji,” the traditional name for Hebei Province), is meant to help the area catch up to China’s more prosperous economic belts: the Yangtze River Delta around Shanghai and Nanjing in central China, and the Pearl River Delta around Guangzhou and Shenzhen in southern China.
这个大的区域统称为京津冀（“京”指北京，“津”指天津，“冀”则是河北省的传统简称）。政府希望通过这种方式让它迎头赶上更加繁荣的两个国内经济带：中国东部以上海和南京为中心的长三角地区，以及南部以广州和深圳为中心的珠三角地区。
But the new supercity is intended to be different in scope and conception. It would be spread over 82,000 square miles, about the size of Kansas, and hold a population larger than a third of the United States. And unlike metro areas that have grown up organically, Jing-Jin-Ji would be a very deliberate creation. Its centerpiece: a huge expansion of high-speed rail to bring the major cities within an hour’s commute of each other.
不过，这片新的超级都市圈想要在规模和概念上有所不同。它将分布在20万平方公里的范围内，面积相当于堪萨斯州，人口超过美国的三分之一。与那种自然发展的都市圈不同，京津冀一体化将经过深思熟虑的人为规划。它的核心是：大规模扩张高速铁路，把主要城镇之间的交通时间缩短到一小时以内。
But some of the new roads and rails are years from completion. For many people, the creation of the supercity so far has meant ever-longer commutes on gridlocked highways to the capital.
然而，一些新的公路和铁路需要数年时间才能完工。迄今为止，对于很多人来说，一体化意味着通往首都的道路拥堵，交通时间变得越来越长了。
Encouraged by Hebei Province’s relatively open residency policies and inexpensive housing, people are flocking to suburbs like this one. Yanjiao has grown tenfold, to as many as 700,000 inhabitants, in a decade. But it remains a bedroom community for Beijing — a swath of apartment towers and restaurants with few services.
河北省的居住政策相对开放，住房价格也较低，因此人们纷纷涌向燕郊这样的地方。在十年时间里，燕郊的规模扩大了十倍，现在容纳了70万居民。但它仍然像是北京周边的“睡城”——拥有大片公寓楼和餐馆，却几乎没什么服务设施。
Many believe that the transportation woes will sort themselves out, given enough time and money. A subway and better light rail are planned to open in three to five years, and a new bridge over the Chaobai River to Beijing is under construction.
很多人认为，只要有足够的资金，假以时日，交通困境自然就会得到解决。政府计划在三到五年内开通一条地铁和更好的轻轨；一座通向北京的新桥梁也正在潮白河上修建。
More worrying for many Yanjiao residents is the dearth of hospitals and schools.
对于很多燕郊居民来说，更令人担忧的问题是医院和学校匮乏。
“The services are bad,” said Zheng Linyun, who works in a sales company in Beijing and commutes about five hours a day. His 6-year-old son just started elementary school and has more than 65 children in his class. “All we see are more and more people coming here.”
“这里的服务设施很糟糕。就看着过来的人越来越多，”郑林云（音）说。他在北京的一家销售公司工作，每天花在路上的时间约为五个小时。他6岁的儿子刚开始上小学，班上起码有65个孩子。
On a bright summer morning, it is easy to see Yanjiao’s better side. Even though the cookie-cutter, 25-story housing blocks stretch dully into the horizon, shopping is plentiful, some streets are tree-lined, and the air is much cleaner than in Beijing.
在一个阳光明媚的夏日上午，不难看到燕郊比较好的一面。尽管千篇一律的25层住宅楼延伸至地平线，显得非常沉闷，但各种商品琳琅满目，一些街道两旁绿树成荫，空气也比北京清新得多。
But the city has no bus terminal, no cinemas and only two very small parks.
不过，这里没有公车总站，没有电影院，只有两座小得可怜的公园。
“The streets flood in the rain because there is no good drainage,” said Xia Zhiyan, a 42-year-old employee of a printing company. “They just built more and more apartments without the most basic facilities.”
“下雨的时候街上就会淹水，因为没有好的排水系统，”42岁的印刷公司员工夏志岩（音）说。“他们修了越来越多的房子，但是少了最基本的设施。”
Even by the cheek-by-jowl standards of Chinese public spaces, Yanjiao’s main park is hopelessly crowded. On a recent Sunday afternoon, in-line skaters bumped into each other at a strolling speed, kite lines crossed in the air, and older men politely jostled each other as they practiced calligraphy with water brushes on the sidewalk.
即便从中国公共空间拥挤不堪的标准来看，燕郊的这座主要公园还是过于局促。不久前的一个周日下午，速度与走路差不多的轮滑玩家会撞到一起，风筝线在空中相互缠绕，用毛笔蘸水在人行道上练字的年长男性礼貌地互相推挤。
The lack of services reflects deeper challenges. With no property taxes, Chinese cities rely on public land sales for tax revenues. Municipalities are not allowed to keep other locally raised taxes, for fear that local leaders will misuse the proceeds.
服务的匮乏反映了更深层次的挑战。由于没有地产税，中国的城镇依靠出售公共土地来获得税收。由于中央担心地方领导人滥用收入，市政府无权保留其他的地方税收。
So a bedroom community like Yanjiao has no way to pay for new schools, roads or enough bus service so that retirees do not have to stand in line on behalf of their children. Changing this would require restructuring how taxes are collected and distributed, an overhaul that is not on the table. Even though the supercity will consolidate affluent Beijing with tax-starved towns like Yanjiao, they will not share revenue.
因此，像燕郊这样的“睡城”无法承担打造新学校、道路或足够的公交服务所需的费用，免除那些退休人员替子女排队的辛劳。要想改变这种情况，就要调整税务征收和分配的方式，但目前还没有相关的全面改革计划。即便这个超级城市圈能够将富裕的北京与缺少税收收入的燕郊等城镇结成一体，它们也不会分享财政收入。
Infrastructure has also lagged. Until recently, high-speed rail failed to connect many vital cities around Beijing, while many roads did not link up. Planning reports say the area has 18 “beheaded” highways — major arteries built in one of the three districts but not linked to others. One highway ends at a bridge over the mostly dried-out river dividing Yanjiao from Beijing, and has remained unfinished for years.
这里的基础设施也比较落后。直到最近，高速铁路尚未连接北京周边很多重要的城镇，不少公路也没接通。规划报告称，该地区有18条“断头路”。它们是建在京津冀的某一区域的主干道，但却没通到其他地方。一条公路的终点位于一座桥上，下方是将燕郊与北京隔开的那条基本干涸的河，而公路本身多年来仍未完工。
But several factors are making Jing-Jin-Ji a reality. The most immediate is President Xi Jinping, who laid out an ambitious plan for economic reform in 2013 and has endorsed the region’s integration.
不过，几个因素在让京津冀一体化成为现实。最直接的因素就是国家主席习近平。他在2013年提出了一项野心勃勃的经济改革计划，也一直支持京津冀一体化发展。
The plan calls for eliminating the “beheaded highways” by 2020 and constructing a new subway line. In addition, the plan assigns specific economic roles to the cities: Beijing is to focus on culture and technology. Tianjin will become a research base for manufacturing. Hebei’s role is largely undefined, although the government recently released a catalog of minor industries, such as wholesale textile markets, to be transferred from Beijing to smaller cities.
该计划要求在2020年前打通这些“断头路”，同时修建一条新的地铁线。除此之外，它给三地分别设定了具体的经济角色：北京集中发展文化和科技；天津将成为制造业的研究基地；河北的角色在很大程度上尚不明确，不过政府最近公布了一份将从北京转移到中小城市的小产业的目录，其中包括纺织批发市场等行业。
Beijing is shifting much of its city administration to the Tongzhou suburb, ending the longstanding practice of putting government offices in the old imperial district.
北京还会将大部分的市级管理机构搬迁至位于郊区的通州，终结长期以来将政府办公地设在老皇城区的做法。
Improving the infrastructure, especially high-speed rail, will be critical. According to Zhang Gui, a professor at the Hebei University of Technology, Chinese planners used to follow a rule of thumb they learned from the West: All parts of an urban area should be within 60 miles of each other, or the average amount of highway that can be covered in an hour of driving. Beyond that, people cannot effectively commute.
改善基础设施至关重要，特别是高速铁路。河北工业大学教授张贵表示，中国的规划部门过去常常遵循他们从西方学来的经验：一片都市圈的所有区域之间相隔不得超过100公里，或者说平均一个小时的公路车程。大于这个距离的话，人们不能有效地交通。
High-speed rail, Professor Zhang said, has changed that equation. Chinese trains now easily hit 150 to 185 miles an hour, allowing the urban area to expand. A new line between Beijing and Tianjin cut travel times from three hours to 37 minutes. That train has become so crowded that a second track is being laid.
张贵表示，高速铁路改变了这一格局。中国的火车现在可以轻松达到每小时250至300公里的速度，使得都会区能够扩张。北京和天津之间的新铁路线将乘车时间从三个小时缩短至37分钟。这条铁路线非常繁忙，因而第二条线路正在铺设。
Now, high-speed rail is moving toward smaller cities. One line is opening this year between Beijing and Tangshan. Another is linking Beijing with Zhangjiakou, turning the mountain city into a recreational center for the new urban area, as well as a candidate to host the 2022 Winter Olympic Games.
如今，高速铁路正在向中小城镇延伸。北京和唐山之间即将在今年开通一条线路。另一条线路将连接北京与张家口，促使这座山城变成京津冀的休闲中心，并有资格申办2022年冬奥会。
“Speed replaces distance,” Professor Zhang said. “It has radically expanded the scope of what an economic area can be.”
“速度取代距离，”张贵说。“这彻底扩大了单个经济区能够涵盖的范围。”
Wang Jun, a historian of Beijing’s development, said creating the new supercity would require a complete overhaul of how governments operated, including instituting property taxes and allowing local governments to keep them. Only then can these towns become more than feeders to the capital.
研究北京发展史的历史学者王军表示，创建这片新的超级城市圈将需要全面改革政府的运作方式，包括设立地产税并允许地方政府保留。只有这样，这些城镇才能发挥比为首都提供补给更多的作用。