WUHAN, China — Chinese automakers are starting to ask some of the largest Western auto parts companies to supply parts that meet American and European regulatory standards, according to senior executives at the parts companies.
中国武汉——西方几家最大的汽车零部件企业管理层透露，中国汽车制造商正开始要求这些企业为它们供应符合美国和欧洲监管标准的零部件。
The requests are the clearest sign yet that after more than a decade of preparation, Chinese manufacturers are starting to feel the confidence to begin high-volume auto exports to the West.
这样的需求首次清楚地表明，经过了十多年的准备，中国制造商们终于感到，自己已具备了向西方大规模出口汽车的能力。
In another sign of shifting policy, a senior Chinese Commerce Ministry official said at an auto industry conference here on Thursday that Chinese automakers should prepare for the lowering of steep tariffs on imported cars. That policy change has never been stated by a Chinese official. Chinese automakers “may have a very huge impact from this reduction of tariffs,” said Chen Lin, the Commerce Ministry official who oversees international automotive investment policy.
周四，中国商务部一位高级官员在当地的一场汽车产业论坛上表示，中国的汽车制造商应准备好应对进口车高关税的下调，这是政策转变的又一个信号。中国官员从未如此明确地谈及这种政策转变。商务部负责汽车行业对外投资策略的陈林表示，关税下调后，中国汽车制造商“恐怕会受到很大的冲击”。
Mr. Chen also said that Chinese automakers should be ready for China to reduce its requirement that foreign automakers set up assembly plants in China only through 50-50 joint ventures with local partners, instead of wholly foreign-owned factories.
陈林还表示，中国的汽车制造商还应准备好，在政府减少对外资汽车制造商的限制后作出调整。按照目前的规定，外资汽车制造商无法在中国建立独资装配工厂，只能通过和本土企业建立股权对半的合资企业来建厂。
Lower tariffs would make it much easier for multinationals to import cars into China, while the removal of the joint venture requirement would allow multinationals to streamline the management of their Chinese operations. Their Chinese joint venture partners have insisted on assigning managers and engineers to these projects so as to gain insights into Western technology and management.
关税下调后，跨国企业向中国出口汽车将容易得多，而同时取消合资限制可以让跨国企业能够理顺其中国业务的管理。一直以来，它们的中方合资伙伴都会坚持指定自己的管理人员和工程师参与合作项目，通过这个来了解西方的技术和管理方式。
Although Mr. Chen did not say so explicitly, reducing China’s trade barriers now would make it harder for Western countries to impose reciprocal restrictions later on Chinese car exports. Mr. Chen indirectly acknowledged this point when he noted that unlike China, most countries do not require joint ventures with local partners to own any assembly plants built in their markets.
虽然陈林没有明确说出，然而对西方国家来说，中国现在降低贸易壁垒将使它们未来更难对中国汽车出口设置对等的限制。陈林间接地认同了这一观点。他在讲话中指出，多数国家和中国不同，不要求外国企业与本土企业合资来在它们的市场上建立任何装配厂。
“We are seeing this imbalance of policy,” he said in a panel discussion at the Global Automotive Forum here, an annual conference that draws chief executives from all over the world.
陈林在武汉举行的全球汽车论坛上的一次专题讨论中说道，“我们注意到了这个政策的不平衡的问题。”全球汽车论坛是一个年度会议，吸引了全球各地汽车行业的首席执行官。
Wang Xia, the chairman of the automotive committee of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade, a government-controlled group that guides Chinese exporters, said in a brief interview that he expected Chinese manufacturers to enter the United States market in five years.
中国国际贸易促进委员会（简称中国贸促会）汽车行业分会会长王侠在一次简短的采访中表示，他预计中国制造商将会在未来五年内进入美国市场。中国贸促会是一家政府控制的组织，负责指导中国的出口企业。
Jeffrey J. Owens, chief technology officer and executive vice president of Delphi, the largest auto parts company headquartered in the United States, said in a separate interview that Chinese automakers were beginning to order parts for delivery three years from now that meet American and European regulatory standards. The orders tend to be for parts for midsize cars and sport utility vehicles, Mr. Owens said.
总部位于美国的汽车零部件企业中规模最大的德尔福(Delphi)的首席技术官兼全球副总裁杰弗里·J·欧文斯(Jeffrey J. Owens)在采访中表示，中国汽车制造商正开始定购未来三年的零部件，全部符合美国和欧洲的监管标准。欧文斯表示，它们所定的部件全都是针对中型轿车和运动型多用途车的。
This suggests that Chinese automakers plan to go after the most profitable segments of Western markets, instead of starting in the overcrowded markets for compact and subcompact cars.
这意味着，中国的汽车制造商正计划进入西方市场中利润最高的那部分细分市场，而不是从竞争者众多的紧凑型和微型轿车市场起步。
Jay K. Kunkel, the president for Asia and the Pacific at Lear, another very large American auto parts supplier, said his company was also starting to see more Chinese orders for parts that meet Western regulatory standards.
另一家大型美国汽车零部件供应商李尔公司(Lear)的亚太区总裁蒋孔克(Jay K. Kunkel)表示，他的公司也正开始接受更多来自中国企业的定单，购买符合西方监管标准的零部件。
Mr. Owens and Mr. Kunkel declined to identify which Chinese automakers were most interested in exports. Mr. Owens said that auto parts designed to Western regulatory standards would also meet Chinese standards but would tend to be more expensive.
欧文斯和蒋孔克拒绝说出是哪些中国汽车制造商有意出口。欧文斯表示，那些符合西方监管标准的汽车零部件也会符合中国的有关标准，但是会更贵一些。
Parts meeting international standards can be made in China and do not have to be imported. Delphi has opened three factories in China this year and is building six more.
符合国际标准的部件也可以在中国进行制造，未必需要进口。德尔福今年已在中国开了三座工厂，还有六座在建造中。
Based on recent public statements, newer automakers in China and those with mostly private sector owners, like Geely and Great Wall, are the most interested in exporting to Western markets. The older, state-controlled manufacturers have been less enthusiastic.
最新公布的消息显示，后来成立的和那些以私营资本为主的中国汽车制造商，如吉利和长城，对于向西方市场出口最有兴趣。而成立较老的国有车厂则不那么热情。
Zhou Langhui, vice president of SAIC Motor, which is still controlled by the Shanghai municipal government despite an initial public offering three years ago, said in brief interview that his company was not interested in exports.
上海汽车集团股份有限公司（简称上汽集团）副总裁周郎辉在一次简短的采访中表示，他的公司对出口没有兴趣。尽管上汽集团三年前就进行了首次公开募股，但仍由上海市政府控股。
Zhu Fushou, the general manager of Dongfeng Motor, a bastion of Chinese heavy industry for half a century, said during a panel discussion that it was valuable to have an international strategy, but he said almost nothing about what his company’s strategy was. He warned of the dangers of moving too fast. “If we do not take the right steps, we may damage our brands,” he said.
东风汽车公司总经理朱福寿在参加一场专题讨论时表示，制定国际战略是有价值的，但他对东风汽车的策略几乎一字未提。半个世纪以来，东风汽车一直是中国重工业的重要根据地。他警告说企业不该盲目发展。他说，“我们选择错了，就淘汰了。”
He did not confirm or deny persistent reports in the French news media that Dongfeng is negotiating the purchase of a 30 percent stake in PSA Peugeot Citroën of France.
朱福寿没有证实或否认法国新闻媒体的连续报道，即东风正在就收购法国标致雪铁龙集团(PSA Peugeot Citroën)30%股份进行洽谈。
China has created the world’s largest auto manufacturing industry behind the protection of the highest trade barriers for any large auto market. China has a 25 percent tariff on imported cars and minivans, for example, compared to a tariff of only 2.5 percent in the United States.
在大型汽车市场中，中国享受着全球最高贸易堡垒的保护，由此创造了世界上最大的汽车制造业。例如，中国对进口轿车及小型货车征收25%的关税，而美国对这些产品仅征收2.5%的关税。
China has a history of growing world-class industries behind high trade barriers and then lowering those barriers when it wants to export. China dropped its high domestic content requirements for solar panels and wind turbines four years ago as it began to ramp up exports in both categories, and it is now the world’s largest manufacturer of both.
中国历来都会通过设置较高的贸易壁垒，从而发展起世界规模的产业，然后在想要出口的时候再降低壁垒。四年前，当中国开始加大太阳能组件和风力发电机出口的时候，它取消了对生产这两种产品时使用国产部件的高要求，如今中国是世界上最大的太阳能组件及风力发电机制造基地。
American and European officials have long been leery of allowing China to tap their home markets in sectors where the Chinese home market remains heavily protected. When China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, it still qualified as a developing country and was allowed to keep trade barriers that are lower than other developing countries but much higher than those of most industrialized countries.
长期以来，美国和欧洲的官员一直对允许中国企业进入其市场的某些特定领域十分谨慎，因为中国在这些领域对自己的国内市场仍设置了重重保护。2001年加入世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)的时候，中国仍符合发展中国家的标准，因此获准维持一定的贸易壁垒，低于其他发展中国家、但远高于大多数发达国家。
Multinational and domestic factories in China export growing numbers of cars to other emerging markets, particularly in Asia. They have not tried large-scale exports of fully assembled vehicles to industrialized countries, although their exports of auto parts to the West are already extensive and growing. Analyses by J. D. Power & Associates and other consulting firms have found that Chinese-brand automakers lag well behind multinationals in the quality of their cars. The difference appears to lie mainly in the Chinese manufacturers’ limited engineering budgets; they have tended to compete on price more than quality.
跨国公司及国内公司在中国的工厂向其他新兴市场出口的汽车数量不断增加，特别是亚洲市场。它们还没尝试向发达国家大规模出口整车，不过向西方市场出口汽车零部件的范围已经很广，且还在增长。J. D. Power公司和其他咨询公司所做的相关分析发现，在汽车质量方面，中国品牌的汽车制造商远远落后于跨国公司。区别似乎主要在于中国制造商的工程预算有限。他们往往会在价格上进行竞争，而不是质量。
Weak engineering has shown up particularly in the Chinese manufacturers’ ability to integrate systems. They separately design engines, transmissions, air-conditioning systems, doors and so forth, and these may each work well by themselves but not together.
制造上的弱势在中国制造商整合系统的能力上尤为明显。他们的发动机、变速器、空调系统、车门等是分开设计的。这些部件各自运转可能都不会有问题，但组装起来就不一定了。
The biggest hurdle for Chinese manufacturers has been vehicle crashworthiness, which requires many different components to crumple in predictable ways. Some Chinese cars have practically disintegrated during initial crash tests in the West, producing some of the worst scores recorded in recent decades.
汽车的耐撞性一直是中国制造商面临的最大难题，这需要很多不同的部件在受挤压时可以按预知的方式发生变形。实际上，在西方进行的初步碰撞测试中，一些中国汽车受撞后会立刻支离破碎，得到了近几十年的最低分。
China has begun requiring crash tests for cars sold in its home market, and Chinese automakers have begun making progress. Qoros Automotive, a little-known Chinese automaker, recently surprised the auto industry when one of its cars gained a top rating of five stars on a crash test in Europe.
中国已经开始要求对在国内市场出售的轿车进行碰撞测试，而且中国汽车制造商已经开始在这方面取得进步。鲜为人知的中国汽车制造商观致汽车最近让汽车行业大吃一惊，该公司的一款汽车在欧洲的碰撞测试中获得了五星的最高评级。
Given a good, well-integrated design to build, Chinese autoworkers are among the best in the world. Ronnie Feng of Taiwan, president of Headman Automobile, which has a spacious, high-ceilinged Ford dealership in Wuhan with a throng of eager young salesmen in suits, said it was easier to sell Ford-designed cars that were assembled in China than those assembled in the United States.
在设计出色、协调的情况下，中国的汽车制造工人就可算是世界一流的了。威汉汽车销售公司董事长冯守明表示，在中国组装的福特车(Ford)比在美国组装的更好卖。该公司在武汉拥有一个高挑宽敞的福特经销店和一群西装笔挺、士气高昂的年轻销售员。
“The workmanship of cars made in the U.S. is not as good as for the ones made in China,” he said. “The doors don’t fit together as well, and consumers are very picky when they see this.”
“美国组装的汽车，工艺不如中国的好，”他说。“车门装得不那么密合，顾客看到的时候会非常挑剔。”