The pain among energy and mining producers worsened again on Tuesday, as one of the industry’s largest players cut its work force by nearly two-thirds and Chinese trade data amplified concerns about the country’s appetite for commodities.
由于矿产行业巨头之一宣布裁员近三分之二，加上中国贸易数据增添了人们对该国大宗商品胃口的担忧，能源和矿产商的困境周二进一步加深。
The full extent of the shakeout will depend on whether commodities prices have further to fall. And the outlook is shaky, with a swirl of forces battering the markets.
这次重大调整的深度和广度将取决于大宗商品价格是否会进一步下跌。前景很不明确，市场正受到各种影响的打击。
The world’s biggest buyer of commodities, China, has pulled back sharply during its economic slowdown. But the world is dealing with gluts in oil, gas, copper and even some grains.
中国是世界上大宗商品的最大买家，由于国内经济放缓，中国对大宗商品的需求急剧下降。然而，世界正面临着石油、天然气、铜，甚至某些粮食的生产过剩问题。
“The world of commodities has been turned upside down,” said Daniel Yergin, the energy historian and vice chairman of IHS, a consultant firm. “Instead of tight supply and strong demand, we have tepid demand and oversupply and overcapacity for commodity production. It’s the end of an era that is not going to come back soon.”
“大宗商品的天下已彻底颠倒，”咨询公司IHS的副董事长、能源历史学家丹尼尔·耶尔金(Daniel Yergin)说。“与供应紧张、需求强劲相反，我们面临的是，大宗商品的需求温吞、供给和产能过剩。这是一个时代的结束，不会很快出现逆转。”
The pressure on prices has been significant.
对价格的压力已经很明显。
Prices for iron ore, the crucial steelmaking ingredient, have fallen by about 40 percent this year. The Brent crude oil benchmark is now hovering around $40 a barrel, down from more than a $110 since the summer of 2014.
关键炼钢原料铁矿石的价格，今年已经下降了约40％。布伦特原油基准目前徘徊在每桶40美元，而2014年夏的价格曾是每桶超过110美元。
Companies are caught in the downdraft.
企业被卷入了价格下降的漩涡。
A number of commodity-related businesses have either declared bankruptcy or fallen behind in their debt payments. Even more common are the cutbacks. Nearly 1,200 oil rigs, or two-thirds of the American total, have been decommissioned since late last year. More than 250,000 workers in the oil and gas industry worldwide have been laid off, with more than a third coming in the United States.
多个与大宗商品有关的企业都宣布破产或没有准时偿还债务。更常见的是规模缩减。从去年底至今已有近1200个石油钻井平台被弃置，占全美平台总数的三分之二。全球范围内有超过25万名石油和天然气行业工人被裁员，其中超过三分之一来自美国。
The international mining company Anglo American is pulling back broadly, with a goal to reduce the company’s size by 60 percent. Along with the layoffs announced on Tuesday, the company is suspending its dividend, halving its business units, as well as unloading mines and smelters.
国际矿业公司英美资源集团(Anglo American)全面收缩，目标是减少60％的公司规模。公司在周二不单宣布裁员，还暂停派息，把业务部门减半，以及脱手矿山和冶炼厂。
The situation has darkened in recent months.
最近几个月局势愈发黯淡。
In July, the company outlined plans to cut 53,000 jobs after reporting a loss of $3 billion for the first half of the year. Now, Anglo American plans to reduce its current work force of 135,000, to 50,000 employees.
7月，公司在报告上半年亏损30亿美元后初步计划削减5.3万个职位。如今，英美资源集团计划将员工数量从目前的13.5万名减少至5万名。
“Quite frankly we didn’t expect the commodity price rout to be so dramatic and in all likelihood the next six months are going to be even tougher,” Mark Cutifani, the company’s chief executive, said at an investors’ conference on Tuesday. “We have pulled costs out of the business, but we need to do more because prices continue to deteriorate.”
“坦率地说，我们没想到大宗商品价格垮得这么戏剧化，而且如无意外未来6个月内将会更严峻，”英美资源首席执行官马克·卡蒂法尼(Mark Cutifani)在周二的一个投资者会议上说。“我们已经把业务成本抽出了，但因为价格继续恶化，我们需要做更多工作。”
China looms large in the commodities equation.
中国在大宗商品的方程式里分量很重。
Between 2000 and last year, companies invested hundreds of billions of dollars to expand their production capacity to satisfy China in a period of rapid economic expansion. Much of the corporate growth was fueled by debt.
从2000年起到去年，企业投资了数十亿美元来扩大自己的产能，以满足中国的一段经济迅速扩张期。大部分企业都靠借贷来增长。
But the situation has proved unsustainable as demand has waned. Chinese copper imports are down nearly 3 percent from last year, while imports of steel products are down by more than 12 percent. The country’s crude oil and iron ore imports are still up, but by rates that are slowing from previous years.
但事实证明在需求下降的情况下，这样的局面是无法维持的。跟去年比，中国铜进口量下降了近3％，而钢铁产品进口量下降了超过12％。该国的原油和铁矿石进口量仍然上涨，但上涨速度跟往年比已经放缓。
The economy’s slowing growth rate is adding to the uncertainty. China reported on Tuesday that exports, the country’s engine of growth, slipped 6.8 percent in November, compared with the same month a year ago. Imports were also weak, although the rate of decline was lower than in the previous month.
经济增长速度放缓增加了不确定性。中国周二报道说，作为该国经济增长引擎的出口在11月下滑，跟去年同期相比少了6.8％。进口也乏力，但下降速度较前一个月慢。
The weakening Chinese demand is hurting prices while production is overwhelming markets.
随着产量超过市场所需，中国需求疲软给价格造成了冲击。
Even with prices falling rapidly, American oil production has only declined to 9.2 million barrels a day, from a record high of 9.6 million barrels a day in June. Momentum in drilling and production have been building over the last three years. Gulf of Mexico offshore production has been steadily increasing since the federal drilling moratorium that followed the 2010 BP oil spill.
尽管价格迅速下跌，美国石油产量只从6月每天960万桶的历史新高下降至每天920万桶。开采和生产的势头是在过去三年里累积起来的。自从2010年BP漏油事故引致联邦钻探禁令后，墨西哥湾的海上开采在稳步增加。
Many international oil projects have been canceled and production should fall more rapidly next year. But it probably won’t be quickly enough to stabilize prices. That is because companies are getting more production out of their investments as efficiency has improved. And some need to keep producing to keep up with their debt payments.
许多国际石油项目已经取消，明年产量下降应该会更快。但它的下降速度可能不足以稳定价格。这是因为随着效率提高，企业投资能产生更高的产量。还有一些企业需要继续生产以支付债务。
The commodity fallout has been global.
大宗商品波动的影响是全球性的。
The Swiss company Glencore is scrambling to reduce its $30 billion debt by a third before the end of 2016 by slashing its copper-mining operations in Zambia and the Democratic Republic of Congo and selling much of its agricultural business. Kinder Morgan, the North American pipeline company, cut its dividend on Tuesday afternoon, prompting a sell-off in the stock after hours.
瑞士公司嘉能可(Glencore)正在加紧行动，要通过大幅削减其在赞比亚和刚果民主共和国的铜矿业务，以及出售相当一部分农业业务，在2016年底把300亿美元的债务降低三分之一。北美管道公司金德摩根(Kinder Morgan)在周二下午宣布削减股息，促使几个小时之后的股票抛售。
There have already been about 40 Chapter 11 bankruptcy filings by North American oil and gas producers this year, accounting for roughly $15 billion in secured and unsecured debt. And energy experts predict more bankruptcies in 2016 if oil prices remain below $40 a barrel, or even below $50 a barrel.
今年已经约有40家北美的石油和天然气生产商申请破产保护，这些生产商大约欠下15亿美元的有担保或无担保债务。而能源专家预测，如果2016年石油价格仍然低于40美元甚至50美元一桶，将有更多企业破产。
When one company topples, it reverberates broadly.
而一家公司的倾覆会造成大范围的影响。
On Monday, Energy & Exploration Partners, a Fort Worth oil and gas driller, filed for Chapter 11 protection. In the bankruptcy, it listed debt of more than $1 billion owed to several service companies, including units of Schlumberger and Baker Hughes.
周一，沃斯堡的石油和天然气开采公司能源与勘探合伙公司(Energy & Exploration Partners)申请破产保护。该公司破产后对数家服务公司欠下逾10亿美元债务，其中包括斯伦贝谢公司(Schlumberger)和贝克休斯公司(Baker Hughes)。
For some players, the mess creates opportunity. Scott Sheffield, chief executive of Pioneer Natural Resources, a major Texas oil company, predicts a wave of consolidations and corporate shake-ups because of financial strain from the commodity price collapse.
对于一些行家来说，这场混乱创造了机会。德克萨斯州大型油企先锋自然资源公司(Pioneer Natural Resources)的首席执行官斯科特·谢菲尔德(Scott Sheffield)预计，由于商品价格暴跌导致资金紧张，会有一波整合和企业重组。
“There is about $150 billion of private equity out there looking for deals in the U.S.,” he said.
“市场大约有1500亿美元私募基金在美国物色并购交易，”他说。
Others are facing a period of prolonged problems.
有的企业正面临长期问题。
Some energy experts are even beginning to express concerns that sovereign wealth funds of Saudi Arabia and other wealthy Persian Gulf and oil-producing countries will redeem their money from investment firms in the coming year to shore up their balance sheets. If they do, the moves could initiate more instability in global equity and debt markets.
一些能源专家甚至开始担心，沙特阿拉伯、波斯​湾及其他富裕产油国的主权财富基金会接下来几年会撤资以支撑其资产负债表。如果他们这样做，可能令全球股票和债券市场更不稳定。
Anglo American is drastically shrinking to remain viable.
英美资源为求生存正在大幅收缩。
Since he became chief executive in 2013, Mr. Cutifani said, not a single month has passed during which any of the products that Anglo American mines has risen in price. When he took the job, Mr. Cutifani signaled that the free-spending ways of the commodity price supercycle had ended by selling the corporate jet.
卡蒂法尼说，自2013年他成为首席执行官以来，英美资源的矿产价格没有出现过任何上涨。他在接手这份工作后出售了公司的飞机，以此表示告别大宗商品价格“超级周期”的那种大手大脚的花钱方式。
Now, everything is getting a second look. Anglo American will close its London head office and share space in the city with the headquarters of De Beers, its diamond mining unit. Over all, Anglo American plans to reduce operating costs over the coming year by $1.1 billion and cut capital spending by an additional $1 billion in the same period.
如今公司一举一动都要加倍小心。英美资源集团将关闭其伦敦总部，与旗下的钻石开采公司戴比尔斯(De Beers)共享在伦敦的办公室。总体而言，英美资源集团计划在来年减少11亿美元的运营成本，并同时削减额外10亿美元的资本支出。
The company intends to focus operation in three areas: the diamond operations of De Beers; industrial metals like copper; and bulk commodities like coal. Details about the job cuts will not be announced until February, but it appears that they will probably focus on the firm’s bulk commodities operations.
公司打算将重点放在三个领域：戴比尔斯的钻石业务；铜等工业金属；及煤炭等大宗散装商品。裁员细节要在二月才能公布，但现在看来可能会集中在公司的大宗散装商品业务上。
Mr. Cutifani said that Anglo American would simply shut money-losing mines rather than sell them at heavily discounted prices, although he did not entirely rule out asset sales. The nickel, coal and iron ore mines, he said, will have to show that they can reduce costs sufficiently to generate cash.
卡蒂法尼称，英美资源集团会把亏损的矿直接关掉，而不是贱价出售，但是他没有完全排除出售资产的可能。他说，镍、煤和铁矿必须证明自己可以降低成本到盈利的程度。
“If not, they won’t be in the portfolio, it’s as simple as that,” he said. “In this sort of environment, nothing can be considered business as usual.”
“如果不行，它们将不能留在投资组合中，就这么简单，”他说。“在这种环境下，没有什么是可以照常运营的。”