Scientists have discovered a new species of dinosaur, a relative of the ferocious Tyrannosaurus Rex, according to a report in Nature Communications. The story of the discovery of the 30-foot-long Qianzhousaurus sinensis, which began more than three years ago in a construction site in southeastern China, contains elements of drama as well as a lot of science — and some luck.
根据《自然通讯》(Nature Communications)的一篇报道，科学家发现了一个恐龙新种。它是凶猛的雷克斯霸王龙的亲戚，名为虔州龙，体长30英尺（约合9.1米），是在中国东南部的一处建筑工地发现的，发现过程始于三年多前，包含着不少戏剧元素和大量科学元素，外加些许运气。
In their paper published this week, Lu Junchang of the Institute of Geology at the Chinese Academy of Geological Sciences, Stephen L. Brusatte of the University of Edinburgh and their four co-authors call the find “a remarkable new species of long-snouted tyrannosaurid.” In Chinese, tyrannosaurids are called “despotic dinosaurs” for their fierceness.
在本周发表的论文中，中国地质科学院地质研究所的吕君昌、爱丁堡大学(University of Edinburgh)的斯蒂芬·L·布鲁萨特(Stephen L. Brusatte)以及其他四名论文作者称，此次发现的是“一个令人瞩目的长鼻暴龙类新种”。在汉语中，暴龙因凶猛而被称作“霸王龙”。
“It is an incredible specimen,” Mr. Brusatte wrote in an email from Edinburgh of the fossil now in the Ganzhou Natural History Museum.
“这是一具非常好的标本，”身在爱丁堡的布鲁萨特在电子邮件中写道。他指的是目前存放在赣州自然博物馆的前述恐龙化石。
The tale of the dinosaur’s discovery began in 2010, as workers in Dragon Ridge County, near Ganzhou city in the southeastern province of Jiangxi, were digging a new industrial park, according to a Feb. 1, 2013, report in The Ganzhou Daily newspaper. Ganzhou was once known as Qianzhou, hence the new dinosaur’s name.
这种恐龙的发现过程始于2010年。据《赣州晚报》2013年2月1日的一篇报道称，当时，工人正在龙岭镇一个新的工业园区进行挖掘，该镇位于东南省份江西的赣州市附近。赣州旧名虔州，恐龙新种的名字由此而来。
According to this account, one sweltering day in mid-September, a fossil hobbyist identified only as Mr. Xie, who lived in the county, received a telephone call from a foreman at the construction site. Workmen had stumbled across large fossils. Mr. Xie rushed over.In fact two fossils had been discovered. The other was an egg-stealing dinosaur, or oviraptorosaurus.
据这篇报道称，2010年9月中旬一个异常炎热的日子，该镇的一名化石爱好者接到了一个工地负责人的电话。对方称工人偶然挖到了大型化石，这名化石爱好者便赶了过去。实际上，工人当时发现了两块化石，另一块属于偷蛋龙，又名窃蛋龙。报道只说了这名化石爱好者姓谢。
“The tyrannosaurid may have been preparing to eat the other dinosaur when a major geological event happened, and they both died and were buried and preserved like this,” the newspaper quoted a well-known paleontologist, Dong Zhiming, a now-retired member of the Chinese Academy of Science’s Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, as saying.
“当时的情景可能是霸王龙正在捕食窃蛋龙，激烈厮杀的瞬间发生了严重的地质灾害，尸体被瞬间埋葬，经过长达数千万年不断的变化才形成了今天的模样，”该报援引知名古生物学家董枝明的话说。董枝明当时供职于中国科学院古脊椎动物与古人类研究所，现已退休。
Mr. Xie rang the Ganzhou city Mineral Resources Management Department, which immediately sent over a team of people. Within six hours they had stashed away all the fossil parts they could find — five large bags and 20 smaller ones, the newspaper reported, in what appeared to be a job quickly done.
谢先生致电赣州市矿产资源管理局，对方立即派来了工作小组。该报报道称，他们六小时内就把找到的所有化石包了起来——5个大包和20个小包，工作似乎完成得非常迅速。
But three or four “fossil traffickers,” having caught wind of the find, also rushed to the scene to bid for the skeleton, Mr. Xie said.
但谢先生说，有三四名“化石贩子”闻风赶到现场，希望买下这副骨架。
“They would have bought it and sold it on at a very high price into private hands,” he said. The illegal buying, selling and smuggling of antiquities, including fossils, is a very lucrative business in China. “They didn’t succeed.”
“他们企图私自收买，高价贩卖到外地，”他说。“但都没有得逞。”在中国，非法收售及走私文物和化石是一门非常赚钱的生意。
Until April 2011, the bags of fossils and earth remained in a room at the minerals department, until they were presented to a new natural history museum being constructed in Ganzhou. “Because it was hard to put the fossil together, it remained a mystery,” the report said.
报道称，这几袋化石和岩土一直保存在矿管局的一个房间里，直到2011年4月才移交给赣州正在新建的自然历史博物馆。报道称，“由于修复难度大，‘岩土’的身份一直是谜团。”
In August 2012, hoping to solve the mystery, the museum gathered a team of Chinese scientists who began work in October. By January 2013 they had finished reassembling the larger creature and their findings were unusual. For one, the creature’s skull was more than three feet long and virtually intact. Atop the elongated snout were several horns, like those of a rhinoceros. The museum invited Mr. Dong, the paleontologist, to judge the findings.
2012年8月，为了解开谜团，博物馆召集了一支中国科学家团队，于当年10月着手修复化石。到2013年1月，他们完成了对体型较大的那头生物的复原，由此有了一个非比寻常的发现。首先，这种生物的头骨长达逾3英尺，基本上完好无损。它长长的鼻腔上方有几个突起，构造和犀牛的鼻腔相似。博物馆邀请古生物学家董枝明来鉴定这些发现。
He believed the fossil of the larger dinosaur was unlike anything identified to date, and would “stun the world” — as it is now doing. Though, somewhat surprisingly, there has been very little media coverage in China.
董枝明认为，较大的恐龙化石和迄今所知的任何化石都不相同，可能会“震惊世界”——目前的状况正是如此。不过，有点让人诧异的是，中国媒体几乎没有报道这件事情。
The nearly intact, fossilized skeleton confirms the existence of what is now called Qianzhousaurus, something scientists had suspected after finding two similar, but juvenile, fossils previously in Mongolia. But the youth of the Mongolian specimens meant the scientists could not be sure if they were looking at a new species, or merely a less-developed form of a known species, such as Tarbosaurus, also found in Mongolia.
这具近乎完好的化石骨架确认了现已命名为虔州龙的物种的存在，科学家们之前推测到了它的存在，因为他们曾在蒙古发现两块类似化石，不过只是幼年期恐龙的化石。由于蒙古发现的标本处于幼年期，科学家不能确定自己看到的是一个新种，或只是一个发育不完全的已知物种，比如也曾在蒙古发现的暴龙。
“The new specimen is approximately twice the size” of the Mongolian discoveries, the abstract of the Nature Communications report said, “showing that the long-snouted morphology was not a transient juvenile condition of deep-snouted species, but a characteristic of a major tyrannosaurid subgroup.”
《自然通讯》的报告摘要称，“新标本的大小大约两倍于”在蒙古发现的标本，“表明其长鼻形态并不是某个深口鼻物种的幼年期暂时形态，而是一个重要暴龙亚群的特征。”
“The iconic tyrannosaurids were top predators in Asia and North America during the latest Cretaceous” — about 70 million years ago — “and most species had deep skulls that allowed them to generate extreme bite forces,” the authors wrote.
作者写道，在距今大约7000万年的“白垩纪晚期，这些标志性的暴龙是亚洲和北美的顶层掠食者，大多数种类都有深深的颅腔，好让他们拥有最大限度的咬合力。”
Qianzhousaurus had a slimmer, longer snout, leading the scientists to dub it “Pinocchio Rex.”
虔州龙的鼻子较细较长，科学家由此把它称作“匹诺曹霸王龙(Pinocchio Rex)”。