HONG KONG — The Renley Watch Manufacturing Company is one of the companies that helped coastal southeastern China displace Switzerland as the center of the world’s watchmaking industry. But now Renley, like many watchmakers, is mulling whether to move far into China’s interior.
香港——运年表业集团是曾经帮助中国东南沿海地区取代瑞士，成为世界钟表制造业中心的企业之一。但如今，像许多钟表企业一样，运年表业集团正在考虑是否要迁入中国内陆。
Just last week, officials from Chongqing, a sprawling metropolis in western China, met with a group of watch industry executives and offered an enticing package for them to move their factories there, said Stanley Lau, Renley’s managing director. The incentives included deeply discounted land, less intrusive environmental inspections and lower wages.
运年表业的董事总经理刘展灏说，就在上周，中国西部大都市重庆的官员会见了一批钟表业高管，向他们提供了一个把工厂迁入这座城市的颇具吸引力的方案。优惠条件包括，大幅削减土地价格、不那么苛刻的环境监管，以及更低的工资水平。
When some of the executives expressed concern about moving costs, the answer came immediately. “The government in Chongqing said, ‘Don’t worry. If you agree to move your factory to Chongqing, I’ll pay your moving costs,’ ” Mr. Lau said, adding that at least 10 watch factories were already preparing to move.
一些高管表达了对搬迁成本的担忧，但立即得到了答复。“重庆政府说，‘别担心，如果你们同意把工厂迁入重庆，迁移费用由我们承担，’”刘展灏说。他接着说，目前至少10家制表厂正在准备搬迁事宜。
Such meetings are increasingly common as the Chinese economy gradually slows.
随着中国经济逐渐放缓，这样的会谈正变得越来越普遍。
With foreign investment falling, inland provinces are in a cutthroat competition to attract domestic industries, offering significant financial incentives to businesses and even undercutting one another in crucial areas like environmental regulation. Companies, driven to cut costs, are taking the offers seriously.
由于外国投资不断减少，内陆省份为吸引国内产业展开了激烈的竞争，它们为企业提供了优厚的经济奖励，甚至在环境监管等重要领域相继调低下限。在削减成本的需求的驱动下，一些企业正在认真考虑这些邀约。
The turf war echoes the efforts by state governments in the United States, which have long used tax sweeteners to persuade companies to relocate. And the trend in China is infuriating the coastal provinces, which contend that businesses should be deciding where to locate factories based on economic merits like the quality of ports and highways.
这场地盘大战与美国州政府的做法如出一辙。长期以来，美国的州政府一直在用优惠的税收政策劝企业迁移。在中国，这一趋势正在激怒沿海省份，后者认为，企业应该根据当地的经济发展状况，比如港口和公路质量，来决定把工厂设在哪里。
“It’s really a problem. I think governments should not give money to companies for relocation,” said Li Chunhong, the top economic policy maker in the southeastern province of Guangdong. “It violates the transparency of the market.”
“这真的是一个问题。我认为政府不应该为企业的迁移买单，”中国东南部广东省的最高经济决策官员李春洪说，“这有违市场透明原则。”
Mr. Li predicted that Guangdong would hold on to higher-wage jobs, particularly in the electronics, design and software industries. Already enough high-tech companies are moving engineers and other staff members into Shenzhen that the city has easily the strongest commercial real estate market in China, with office space in short supply, said Sanjay Verma, the chief executive for Asia at Cushman & Wakefield, a global commercial real estate brokerage firm.
李春洪预测，广东将能够留住工资较高的工作岗位，尤其是在电子、设计和软件行业。全球商业房地产中介机构高纬环球(Cushman & Wakefield)的亚洲总裁桑贾伊·维尔马(Sanjay Verma)说，已经有大量高科技企业把工程师等人员派到深圳。由于办公空间短缺，深圳已轻松成为中国最强劲的商业房地产市场。
Pausing during an interview to pull a large Samsung smartphone out of his suit pocket, Mr. Li described how 90 percent of the phone’s components had been manufactured within a 60-mile-wide circle near Hong Kong that encompasses cities like Shenzhen, Dongguan and Zhuhai.
在接受采访时，李春洪从西装口袋里掏出了一部大屏三星智能手机。他说，这部手机90%的零件都是在接近香港的一个方圆100公里的地区内制造的，这其中包括深圳、东莞和珠海。
“If a factory needs components, they can make a call, and in just one hour the components are sent to their factory,” he said.
“如果工厂需要零件，他们只需要打个电话，一个小时后零件就送到工厂去了，”他说。
Guangdong Province led China in embracing capitalism in the late 1970s and continues to rival the Shanghai area as one of the country’s two main export hubs. Tens of millions of migrant workers flocked from all over China to fill Guangdong’s factories, many of them built by Hong Kong investors. More recently, Guangdong has been a leader in China in trying to tackle pollution by forcing many factories to install new equipment, move to outlying areas far from population centers or even close entirely.
上世纪70年代末，广东省在中国率先推行了市场经济，它和上海目前是该国两个主要的出口中心。数千万外来务工人员从中国各地来到广东的工厂，这些工厂中许多由香港投资者所有。如今，广东又率先尝试解决污染问题，要求许多工厂安装新设备，搬迁到远离人口中心的边缘地区，甚至彻底停产。
Now, Guangdong is losing lower-wage jobs to inland provinces. Blue-collar workers are scarce across China, and their wages are surging, because college enrollment has quintupled in the last decade and few graduates will consider factory labor. With the jockeying over jobs, many migrant workers have been able to stop taking 30-hour bus and train trips to coastal provinces and find jobs closer to home — leaving factories, in Guangdong particularly, scrambling for people to work on assembly lines.
如今，工资较低的岗位正在从广东流向内陆省份。蓝领工人在中国各地都十分稀缺，其工资水平不断增长，这是因为过去10年中，中国大学的入学人数增加了四倍，而大学毕业生很少会考虑进入工厂工作。在更换了几次工作之后，许多农民工可以不用乘坐30小时的长途火车或汽车抵达沿海省份，而是在离家较近的地方就业——因此，一些工厂都在争抢在流水线上工作的工人，广东省的工厂尤其如此。
New railroad routes from western China to Europe, as well as sprawling new airports with freight terminals built deep in China’s interior, are also making it possible to ship goods directly from inland factories to foreign markets without relying on the giant ports of Guangdong, Shanghai or other coastal areas.
由于从中国西部通往欧洲的新铁路干线，以及中国内陆带有货运站的庞大新机场相继落成，货物已经可以从内陆工厂直接运到海外市场，无需依赖广东、上海或其他沿海地区的大型港口。
“More and more manufacturers are considering relocating their production operations from Guangdong to more inland in China, or even to other countries,” said Mr. Lau, who is also the chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, a broad coalition of trade groups with factories across southeastern China.
“越来越多的厂商正在考虑把生产业务从广东搬迁到内陆更深的腹地，甚至搬到其他国家，”刘展灏说，他也是香港工业总会(Federation of Hong Kong Industries)主席。香港工业总会是由一些贸易集团组成的广泛联盟，这些贸易集团在中国东南部各地设有工厂。
Mr. Lau’s company, which he founded in Hong Kong in 1983, currently makes watch components and assembles less expensive watches in Dongguan, in Guangdong Province. Renley also assembles midmarket watches at a factory in Hong Kong and luxury watches in La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland. Renley has brands like Buler, Temporis, Sultana and Jean d’Eve, but most of the production is sold under other brands for retailers that do not have watchmaking operations.
运年表业是刘展灏1983年在香港创办的，目前在广东东莞制造钟表零件，并且组装价格相对便宜的手表。该公司也在香港的一家工厂组装中端手表，在瑞士拉绍德封组装高档手表。运年表业拥有的品牌有澎马(Buler)、天普时(Temporis)、时添雅(Sultana)和珍达斐(Jean d’Eve)，但它生产的大部分手表，都是用那些本身没有制表业务的零售商的品牌销售的。
Sitting in his company’s conference room, lined with display cases that glitter with expensive watches, Mr. Lau ticked off the pros and cons of moving his Dongguan factory 630 miles northwest to Chongqing. With an urban population of 17.3 million, Chongqing is building a “Jewelry City” and trying to persuade manufacturers to relocate there.
该公司的会议室里摆放着一些展示柜，里面陈列着闪闪发光的名表，刘展灏坐在会议室里，细数了把东莞工厂搬迁到西北方向630英里之外的重庆有哪些利弊。重庆有1730万城镇人口，正在建设“珠宝城”，政府试图说服制造商搬迁到那里。
The appeal starts with lower wages. Although pay in the Chinese interior is rising fast, it has not quite caught up. Chongqing has assured watchmakers of an ample supply of workers, and Mr. Lau estimated that they would be paid $375 to $405 a month, excluding government-mandated costs for employers like basic health insurance, pensions and housing subsidies.
第一个优势就是那里的工资水平较低。虽然中国内地的工资在快速上升，却还没有完全赶上沿海。重庆政府向制表商保证，那里有充足工人，刘展灏估计每个工人的月薪为375至405美元（约合人民币2300至2500元），这不包括政府规定公司必须缴纳的基本医疗保险、养老保险和住房公积金等。
That compares to $490 a month in Dongguan — when manufacturers can find employees. “There is a shortage of workers in every industry,” Mr. Lau said.
相比之下，在东莞，制造商要支付490美元的月薪，才能招到员工。“每个行业都存在员工短缺的现象，”刘展灏说。
Chongqing also has abundant land. The city charges one-third less than Dongguan, and the land is near large roads and commercial districts. Dongguan is so built up that the only new sites tend to be several hours’ drive into outlying areas.
重庆还有充足的土地。靠近大路和商业区的地块，价格不到东莞的三分之一。东莞已经开发得差不多了，仅有的新区位置往往很偏远，距离市区有几个小时的车程。
Environmental regulation is one of the touchiest issues. Mr. Lau said that Chongqing required new factories to install modern pollution-control equipment and adopt certain procedures, but then had fairly few follow-up inspections. Four Chongqing municipal agencies declined to comment on their activities.
环境监管是最敏感的问题之一。刘展灏说，重庆要求新工厂安装现代化的污染控制设备，并采用一定治污流程，但后续检查非常少。重庆四个市政部门拒绝对本部门的活动置评。
Guangdong has been gradually reducing air pollution over the last several years partly by closing older factories and requiring new equipment and procedures for other sites. But for many industries with histories of pollution problems, like metal plating — an important part of watchmaking — Guangdong is also requiring that factories move to a few designated industrial zones.
在过去几年中，广东已逐步减少了空气污染，方法之一是关闭老旧工厂，要求其他工厂采用新的设备和流程。但对于一些长期存在污染问题的行业，比如制表业，广东省也要求他们把工厂搬迁到指定的几个工业区。在这个行业中，金属电镀是其工艺中的一个重要组成部分，
Chongqing is also an emerging hub for railroad shipments across Central Asia to Europe, said several executives who have operations in the city or are considering them. Hewlett-Packard already ships entire trainloads of computers along the “new Silk Road” route.
对于整个中亚至欧洲而言，重庆也是一个新兴的铁路运输枢纽，几名在重庆经营业务，或者正在考虑此事的高管说。惠普(Hewlett-Packard)已经在沿着“新丝绸之路”，整车皮地运输电脑。
In a speech on Wednesday, Mr. Li, the economic policy maker for Guangdong, called for renewed emphasis on a “maritime Silk Road,” the ships that still haul the bulk of China’s commerce. Many freight executives are skeptical that transcontinental railroad routes spanning Asia and Europe would supplant container ships.
在本周三的讲话中，广东经济政策制定者李春洪呼吁重新重视“海上丝绸之路”，即大部分中国商品仍在采用的海运方式。对于横贯大陆的铁路路线能否取代集装箱海运，很多货运高管仍然持怀疑态度。
“We do not see it as an alternative replacing or denting the status of ocean shipping as the main mode of transport between the two continents,” said Jens Eskelund, the managing director at the China division of A.P. Moller-Maersk, the world’s largest container shipping company.
“海运是欧亚两大洲之间主要的运输模式，我们认为铁路运输不会取代或者打击海运的这种地位，”全球最大的集装箱货运公司马士基(A.P. Moller-Maersk)中国分公司总裁彦辞(Jens Eskelund)说。
Mr. Lau said that the watch industry still relied almost entirely on air shipments, so rail services were irrelevant. Each bulk buyer of watches in Europe and elsewhere typically arranges its own shipment from the factories, and the result is many small shipments, none of which is big enough for rail, which works best with full container loads.
刘展灏说，钟表业仍然几乎完全采用空运，所以铁路服务并不重要。位于欧洲和其他地方的钟表大买主，通常自行安排从工厂出货的方式，结果就是出货量小，次数多，每次的出货量都不适合采用铁路运输。对于铁路运输来说，最好是集装箱整箱出货。
Renley Watch has not made a decision on whether to move. Chongqing has offered this year to cover 2 million renminbi, or $325,000, in moving expenses for each of the first 20 watch factories in Guangdong that agree to relocate.
运年表业尚未做出是走是留的决定。重庆市表示，今年要为同意迁入的前2​​0家广东手表厂每家提供200万人民币的搬迁费。