North Korea and bilateral relations between the United States and China are dominating Secretary of State John Kerry’s visit to East Asia this week, but tensions continue to simmer in the South China Sea as well.
朝鲜问题及中美双边关系成为了美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)本周东亚之行的主要议题，南海地区的紧张局势却照样在持续发酵。
Hua Chunying, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, took exception on Friday to a remark a day earlier by Adm. Jonathan Greenert, the chief of naval operations of the United States Navy. Admiral Greenert said the United States would fulfill its obligations under a mutual defense treaty to help the Philippines if it came under attack, although the admiral was careful not to say how much help might be provided.
周五，中国外交部发言人华春莹对美国海军作战部长乔纳森·格林纳特上将(Jonathan Greenert)前一天的言论提出了异议。格林纳特上将当时表示，如果菲律宾遭到攻击，美国会履行共同防御条约规定的义务，帮助菲律宾。不过，格林纳特非常谨慎，没有提及美国可能提供多大程度的帮助。
Ms. Hua responded on Friday afternoon that, “The U.S., who is not a party concerned in the South China Sea dispute, should honor its commitment of not taking sides on the territorial sovereignty issue, be discreet in word and deed and do more for peace and stability of the Asia-Pacific, rather than the opposite.”
周五下午，华春莹回应称，“美方不是南海争端当事方，应恪守在领土主权问题上不选边站队的承诺，谨言慎行，多做有益于亚太地区和平稳定的事，而不是相反。”
China has been increasingly assertive in the last few years in claiming islands, shoals and fishing grounds in the South China Sea, including near the Philippines and south almost to the coast of Borneo. When asked on Thursday during a visit to the Philippines whether the United States would help if China attacked as part of a dispute in the South China Sea, Admiral Greenert replied that, “Of course we would help you, I don’t know what that help would be specifically – we have an obligation because we have a treaty,” Admiral Greenert said.
过去几年中，中国日益强硬，声称对一些南海岛屿、浅滩、渔场拥有主权，其中一些处所位于菲律宾周边几乎南达婆罗洲的地方。周四访问菲律宾期间，被问及如果中国因南海争端攻击菲律宾，美国是否会提供帮助时，格林纳特回应称，“当然，我们会帮助你们，我不知道具体会是什么帮助，但我们有责任，因为我们签订了条约。”
At a separate press briefing on Friday evening, Secretary of State John Kerry lent support to the Philippines call for South China Sea issues to be resolved according to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. “With respect to the South China Sea, it’s important to resolve these differences in a peaceful, non-confrontational way that honors the law of the sea and honors the rule of law itself,” he said, according to a State Department transcript.
在周五晚间举行的另一场新闻发布会上，国务卿约翰·克里支持菲律宾提出的要求，赞成根据《联合国海洋法公约》(United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea)解决南海问题。根据美国国务院提供的文字记录，克里表示，“就南海问题而言，重要的是通过符合海洋法和法治本身的和平及非对抗方式消除分歧。”
Beijing officials have rejected using the United Nations Convention, although China is a signatory, and have said that they prefer bilateral talks instead with each country, as such negotiations give them considerable leverage over each of their much smaller neighbors.China is already unhappy after President Benigno S. Aquino III of the Philippines last week cited Nazi Germany’s demands for Czech territory in 1938 in calling for international support for his country in resisting China’s territorial claims off the west coast of his country. Hong Lei, another Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, responded at a briefing on Feb. 7 by pointing out that China had fought against the Axis during World War II.
中国官员拒绝通过《联合国海洋法公约》解决问题，尽管中国是签署国。中国官员表示他们倾向于与各个国家举行单独的双边会谈，因为此类谈判会让他们获得强大的杠杆，可以左右那些比中国小得多的邻国。菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)上周引用纳粹德国1938年侵占捷克的例子，呼吁国际社会支持菲律宾反对中国对该国西岸海域的领土要求，使得中国甚为不满。中国外交部另一名发言人洪磊在2月7日的新闻发布会上作出回应，指出中国曾在二战期间与轴心国作战。
“It is inconceivable and unreasonable to place China-Philippines South China Sea disputes in the same category with the WWII history,” he said. “The Chinese side is shocked at and dissatisfied with the remarks from the Philippine side.”
“将中菲南海争议同二战历史相提并论令人匪夷所思，毫无道理，”他说，“中方对菲方有关说法感到震惊和不满。”
On Feb. 8, Mr. Hong also denounced Daniel R. Russel, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, for questioning China’s recent assertions of maritime sovereignty not just to the waters near Philippines but almost to the shores of Malaysian Borneo.
2月8日，洪磊还对负责东亚及太平洋地区事务的助理国务卿丹尼尔·R·拉塞尔(Daniel R. Russel)的质疑声音表示了谴责。拉塞尔质疑的是中国近期的海上主权主张，后者不仅涉及菲律宾周边海域，还涉及几乎远达马来西亚婆罗洲海岸的水域。
“China’s rights and interests in the South China Sea are formed in history and protected by international law,” Mr. Hong said. “China stays committed to resolving maritime disputes with countries directly concerned through negotiation and consultation.”
“中国在南海的海洋权益是历史形成的，并受到国际法的保护，”洪磊说。“中方一直致力于与直接有关的当事国通过谈判和磋商解决。”
During the interview last week, President Aquino said that no one should worry that expressions of support by the United States would embolden the Philippines to take an overly confrontational stance toward China, because the Philippines is well aware that its military is far weaker than China’s.
阿基诺在上周的采访中说，谁也不应该担心美国政府的支持表态会促使菲律宾公然挑衅中国，因为菲律宾非常清楚，本国的军事力量比中国弱很多。
A survey conducted in December and released in stages in the Philippines over the last two weeks indicated that Mr. Aquino may have been tapping into deep worries there about China’s territorial ambitions. Filipinos expressed greater satisfaction with his administration’s defending of the country’s territorial rights and foreign policy than with any other national policy.
有关方面于12月进行了一次调查，并于过去两周在菲律宾分阶段发布。调查结果表明，阿基诺或许正在利用人们对中国领土野心的深切担忧。菲律宾人表示，与其他全国性政策相比，他们对阿基诺政府保卫国家领土权利的做法及外交政策感到更加满意。
In his interview on Feb. 7 with The New York Times, Mr. Aquino strongly asserted that he would not back down from his country’s longstanding claims to islands and atolls off its shores, even though he readily acknowledged that the Philippines has scant military force to resist China’s increasingly vocal expression of territorial ambitions and steady military buildup.
2月7日，阿基诺在接受《纽约时报》采访时强烈表示，他绝不会放弃菲律宾长期以来对本国海岸附近岛屿及环礁的主权主张，虽然他乐意承认，菲律宾的军事力量甚为薄弱，根本不足以对抗中国日益强势的领土野心和稳步发展的军备建设。
“One is perplexed at what China’s intentions are — I don’t think that there is any expert that can come up with conclusions that are beyond refute,” he said.
他说，“人们对中国究竟持何目的感到困惑——我认为，没有哪位专家能提出无可争议的结论。”
IHS Jane’s, a defense industry consulting and analysis company, estimated earlier this month that by next year, China will be spending more on its military than Germany, France and Britain combined.
防务咨询和分析公司简氏信息集团(IHS Jane's)本月早些时候估计，到明年，中国的军费开支就会超过德法英三国的总和。
But while public opinion tends to be heavily pro-American in the Philippines, particularly after the United States provided extensive relief after Typhoon Haiyan while China did almost nothing, many in the Philippines intellectual elite remain dubious of the United States and of President Aquino’s hopes for an expanded rotation of American troops through the Philippines. They see the current tensions with China not as resembling the West’s resistance to Nazi aggression or containment of the former Soviet Union, but rather in terms of the United States’ more recent inability to bring stability in countries facing challenges radical Islamist groups.
菲律宾的公众舆论往往倾向于强烈支持美国，尤其是在台风“海燕”过境之后，因为美国提供了大量援助，中国却几乎什么也没做，尽管如此，菲律宾的许多学界精英仍然怀疑美国，怀疑阿基诺总统扩大驻菲美军数量的希望。他们认为，中菲两国目前的矛盾与西方抵抗纳粹进攻或遏制前苏联的行为并不相同，而与美国最近无法给面临激进伊斯兰组织挑战的国家带来稳定有关。
“Becoming a frontline state is something we must avoid at all costs – Pakistan, Afghanistan, that is not something we want to become,” said Congressman Walden Bello, a member of Mr. Aquino’s ruling coalition.
阿基诺执政联盟的议员沃尔登·贝洛(Walden Bello)说，“我们必须不惜代价地避免成为一个前线国家——我们可不想成为巴基斯坦或阿富汗。”
The White House separately announced on Wednesday that President Obama would visit Japan, South Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines in April. In the Philippines, the statement said, “He will meet with President Aquino to highlight our economic and security cooperation, including through the modernization of our defense alliance, efforts to expand economic ties and spark economic growth through the Partnership for Growth, and through our deep and enduring people-to-people ties.”
周三，白宫还宣布奥巴马总统将于4月出访日本、韩国、马来西亚和菲律宾。白宫在声明中说，在菲律宾，“他将与阿基诺总统着重讨论我们的经济与安全合作，包括推动防御同盟的现代化，通过增长合作伙伴关系(Partnership for Growth)和我们深厚持久的人际联系来扩大经济联系并刺激经济增长。”
Secretary of State John Kerry is making stops in South Korea, China and Indonesia during his current trip, but is not planning a stop in Manila. When he visited Asia in mid-December, he included stops in Manila and Tacloban, the city devastated last November by Typhoon Haiyan, and declared American support then for the Philippines, including $40 million in maritime security assistance.
国务卿约翰·克里此次访问的停留地点包括韩国、中国和印尼，但不包括马尼拉。去年12月中旬访问亚洲期间，他曾在马尼拉停留，并拜访了去年11月被台风“海燕”重创的城市塔克洛班，还向菲律宾宣布了美国的支持，其中包括4000万美元（约合2.4亿元人民币）的海事安全援助。