LONDON – Consumers in developing countries like Brazil and China are set to continue as the main engine for sales growth for devices like smartphones and tablets in 2014, according to a research report published Tuesday.
伦敦——周二公布的一份研究报告显示，巴西和中国等发展中国家的消费者，将在2014年继续成为智能手机和平板电脑等设备的销售增长的主要推动者。
In total, worldwide shipments of computers, tablets and smartphones are estimated to rise 7.6 percent this year, to 2.5 billion units, according to the figures from Gartner, the technology research company.
根据科技调研公司高德纳(Gartner)的分析，电脑、平板与智能手机的全球总出货量预计将在今年攀升7.6%，增至25亿台。
Consumers in developing economies, particularly Asian countries like India and Indonesia, are projected to buy these devices at significantly higher rates than in the United States and Western Europe, Gartner estimates.
高德纳估算，发展中经济体的消费者，尤其是在印度和印度尼西亚等亚洲国家，购买此类设备的增速预计将比美欧消费者高得多。
Ranjit Atwal, research director in Gartner’s global forecasting team, said the continuing rise of a middle class in these emerging economies would be the main driver for growth, as those middle-class consumers upgraded their cellphones and bought new tablets.
高德纳全球预测团队的研究主管兰吉特·阿特瓦(Ranjit Atwal)表示，这些新兴经济体的中产阶级的规模持续扩大，随着此类消费者升级手机及购买新平板，这些地方将构成增长的主要驱动力。
That could provide an opportunity for low-cost manufacturers of devices that use Google’s Android operating systems. Companies like Huawei and ZTE have flooded the market with cheap smartphones in the hope of persuading local consumers to purchase more advanced cellphones and other mobile devices.
这或许会为采用谷歌公司(Google)的Android操作系统的低成本设备生产商带来机遇。华为和中兴等企业已使廉价智能手机在市场上变得无所不在，它们希望能说服当地消费者购买更先进的手机及其他移动设备。
“In mature markets, we are reaching a saturation point,” Mr. Atwal said. “In emerging economies, smartphone adoption is still relatively low. People want to upgrade their handsets.”
“在成熟市场里，我们即将到达饱和点，”阿特瓦说。“在新兴经济体里，智能手机的普及率仍然较低。人们希望能升级自己的手机。”
Over the last three years, China has become the world’s largest smartphone market. About 40 percent of sales in the first nine months of 2013 were in Asia, according to the research firm Canalys.
过去三年间，中国成为了世界最大的智能手机市场。调研公司Canalys的数据显示，2013年头九个月，约40%的销售额来自亚洲地区。
But now other Asian countries are also on track to become important for hardware makers.
如今，其他亚洲国家也走在了成为硬件生产商的重要市场的道路上。
In particular, high-growth countries in the Asia-Pacific region like Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia are expected to report shipments of 529 million computers, tablets and smartphones this year, 20 percent more than 2013, according to Gartner’s statistics.
尤其是亚太地区的高增长国家，如泰国、印尼和马来西亚。根据高德纳的统计，这些国家今年的电脑、平板和智能手机的总出货量预计将达5.29亿台，较2013年上涨20%。
“There are 200 million middle-class customers in India alone,” Mr. Atwal said. “That’s a considerable opportunity.”
“单在印度就有2亿多中产阶级消费者，”阿特瓦说。“这是个相当大的机遇。”
Despite the increased shipments of devices to emerging markets, analysts say many smartphone and tablet makers may still struggle to turn a profit.
尽管新兴市场的硬件出货量在增加，分析人士称，许多智能手机与平板生产商仍在盈利方面面临困难。
Cutthroat competition between hardware makers has led to a continual fall in prices for devices. That has left many companies unable to benefit financially from consumers’ almost insatiable demand for the latest tech gadgets.
硬件生产商之间的残酷竞争已驱使设备价格持续下跌。因此，虽然消费者对新奇技术设备的渴求可谓永不知足，但很多公司没法从中获利。
Nokia, for example, is expected to complete the sale of its handset division to Microsoft for $7.2 billion this quarter after losing its dominant market share in the smartphone industry to rivals like Apple.
例如，诺基亚(Nokia)将其在智能手机市场上的领先位置让给了苹果(Apple)等竞争对手。预计诺基亚将于本季度完成将其手机部门出售给微软的交易，售价为72亿美元（约合436亿元人民币）。
And despite Android’s commanding position as the world’s most-used operating system for high-end phones, few manufacturers that rely on the software generate a profit from their handsets, according to research from Canaccord Genuity.
此外，调研公司加通贝祥(Canaccord Genuity)的分析表明，尽管Android在高端手机采用的操作系统中称霸，但在依靠这一软件系统的生产商中，没有几家能从手机设备中盈利。
To compete against the global leaders like Samsung, which held a 32 percent market share for smartphones in the third quarter, analysts say rival phone makers must prove that their devices can offer a unique experience to consumers.
三星(Samsung)在上年第三季度的智能手机市场上占据了32%的份额。为了与此类全球领先企业竞争，分析人士称，各手机生产商必须证明自己的设备能给消费者提供独特的体验。
“Users want to look beyond Apple and Samsung,” said Mr. Atwal of Gartner. “Over the next two years, they will be open to trying something different.”
“用户想要着眼于苹果和三星之外，”高德纳的阿特瓦说。“未来两年里，他们会为尝试其他东西敞开怀抱。”