A 61-year-old Brooklyn resident from China was walking on the street one day in April when a woman approached her and struck up a friendly conversation in Cantonese. She claimed to be a clairvoyant, and then she delivered a dire warning. “You or a family member will die soon because of a curse,” she said.
今年4月里的一天，一名来自中国的61岁布鲁克林区居民走在马路上，一个说粤语的女人走近她，友好地攀谈起来。她自称拥有千里眼，然后发出可怕的警告：“你或你的一个家人很快就会死，因为你们遭到了诅咒。”
That, according to an indictment unsealed in New York State Supreme Court on Thursday, was the hook in a ruse known as the “blessing scam.” The scammer, a 44-year-old woman from China, told the older woman that the only way to reverse the curse was with a blessing — over her life’s savings and jewelry.
本周四，纽约州最高法院解封的一份起诉书显示，这是一种名为“祈福骗局”的诈骗手段。骗子是一名44岁的中国女子，她告诉那名年长的女性，消除诅咒的唯一方法就是祈福——用她全部的储蓄和珠宝。
The victim returned with $140,000 worth of cash and pieces of 24-karat gold jewelry in a bag, which she was told not to open immediately, in order to preserve the blessing. She was distracted, the bag was switched with another, and her property was stolen, though she did not realize it until later, when she opened the bag.
受害人带着一袋子总价值14万美元的现金和足金首饰返回。她被告知为了保持祈福的效果，不能立即打开袋子。骗子干扰了她的注意力，将袋子掉包，她的财产被偷走了，但是她直到后来打开袋子的时候，才发现这件事。
The scheme, the authorities say, was carried out by Chinese nationals who, for the last several years, have been entering the United States to target Chinese immigrants in neighborhoods across New York as well as in cities across the country.
当局说，开展这种诈骗活动的是一些中国籍人士，他们在近几年来到美国，在纽约和其他城市寻找华人移民作为目标。
On Thursday, the Brooklyn district attorney’s office arraigned Xuekun Su, 44, on eight counts, including grand larceny as a hate crime.
本周四，布鲁克林区检察院控告44岁的苏雪坤（音）八项罪名，其中包括重大盗窃罪和仇恨罪。
According to the police, two months after taking advantage of the Brooklyn woman, Ms. Su victimized another in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, for $19,000. She also committed the scheme in Manhattan and Flushing, Queens, stealing more than $400,000, they said.
据警方介绍，苏雪坤诈骗布鲁克林那名女性的两个月后，又在布鲁克林日落公园诈骗了1.9万美元。他们称，她还在曼哈顿和皇后区法拉盛盗窃了逾40万美元。
The authorities said she worked with two associates, who have not been arrested.
当局说，她还有两个同伙没有归案。
The arrest was the result of a rather busy summer in the blessing scam business. Deputy Chief Joseph V. Dowling of the New York Police Department’s grand larceny division said there had been seven cases of this type of fraud in the city since the beginning of the year, most of them over the summer.
祈福党今年夏季活动相当猖獗，嫌疑人就是在那之后遭到逮捕的。纽约警察局主管重大盗窃案部门的副处长约瑟夫·V·道林(Joseph V. Dowling)说，自年初开始，纽约市已经发生了七起这种类型的欺诈案件，其中大部分发生在夏天。
So far, the authorities said, they had arrested four of eight suspects, including three suspects indicted in Brooklyn in September and charged with stealing $85,000 from one 62-year-old woman.
当局说，到目前为止，他们逮捕了八名犯罪嫌疑人中的四名，其中包括今年9月在布鲁克林遭到起诉、被控从一名62岁的女性那里盗取了8.5万美元的三名犯罪嫌疑人。
The police believe the other four fled back to China. The perpetrators, Chief Dowling said, all came from the southwestern city of Maoming, in Guangdong province. They entered the United States through Canada or via a tourist visa.
警方认为，其他四人已经逃回中国。道林说，这些人都是来自广东省西南部的茂名。他们通过旅游签证或者途经加拿大进入美国。
The profits from the crimes were substantial: more than $600,000 in cash and jewelry. The police have been able to recover only $11,000, they said.
他们诈骗所得的金额相当巨大：价值超过60万美元的现金和珠宝。警方目前仅追回了1.1万美元的财物。
Ms. Su pleaded not guilty. Her court-appointed lawyer, Morris Shamuil, said that Ms. Su, herself, was a victim, akin to a woman forced into prostitution. “She informed me she was smuggled into this country and promised citizenship, legal residency and a job doing housekeeping,” Mr. Shamuil said. “She was told that if she wanted to stay in this country, she would have to do what she was told, or be thrown out on the street.”
苏雪坤不认罪。法庭给她指定的律师莫里斯·沙姆尔(Morris Shamuil)说，苏雪坤自己也是一名受害者，就像那些被迫卖淫的女人。“她告诉我，她是偷渡进入这个国家的，对方承诺给她公民身份、合法居留身份，以及一份做家务的工作，”沙姆尔说。“他们告诉她，如果想留在这个国家，就必须参加骗局，否则就会被赶到街头。”
Mr. Shamuil said that Ms. Su flew from China to Canada and then was smuggled into the United States and that she had told him she did not receive any of the money.
沙姆尔说，苏雪坤从中国飞到加拿大，然后偷渡到了美国，她告诉他说，自己并没有从骗局中拿到一分钱。
Judge Danny Chun set bail at $250,000.
法官丹尼·田(Daniel Chun)设定了25万美元的保释金。
Chinese immigrant associations in New York are aware of the blessing scheme, and over the last two years have conducted education workshops with older people, providing tip sheets. So, too, have elder abuse and immigrant fraud divisions of the Manhattan district attorney’s office and the Brooklyn district attorney’s office, which created the Immigrant Fraud Unit in 2014.
纽约的中国移民协会都知道这种祈福骗局的存在，在过去两年里，他们给老人举办过教育讲座，还发放了宣传资料。而且，曼哈顿地区检察官办公室有老年人虐待和移民欺诈部门，布鲁克林区检察官办公室也在2014年设立了移民欺诈小组。
“It’s very dangerous,” said Tim Law, 69, the chief executive adviser for the Chinese-American Social Services Center in Gravesend, Brooklyn. “The people who scam people are very smart. They pick up their targets in the supermarket, or the doctor’s office or at the bakery, listening in on their conversations.”
“这非常危险，”69岁的蒂姆·刘(Tim Law)说，他是布鲁克林格雷夫森德美籍华人社区服务中心的首席执行顾问，“这些骗子非常聪明。他们在超市、医生的诊所，或在面包店寻找作案对象，偷听他们的谈话。”
Dr. Law conducts workshops everywhere, from his center to churches to tai chi classes at Seth Low Park. On Wednesday, he gathered a group of nine women, many of whom said they knew victims in the neighborhood.
刘博士在他的中心、教会以及赛斯劳公园(Seth Low Park)的太极课上都举办了防骗讲座。上周三，他找来了9名女性，其中很多都表示身边有受害者。
Chan Hua Tang, 77, said in Cantonese, with Dr. Law interpreting, that a friend from her village was victimized two years ago.
77岁陈华堂（音）说粤语，刘博士翻译了她的话。她说自己同村的一个朋友两年前也受过骗。
Ms. Chan said the woman had been approached on the street by a woman who told her that “her grandchildren have an evil spirit.” The scammer, according to Ms. Chan, told her friend that to get rid of the evil spirit, “you have to go home, get your money and jewelry.” The woman “had hid the money in her basement,” Ms. Chan said. “She got $40,000 to $50,000, and her jewelry.”
陈华堂说，一个女人在大街上跟她搭话，说“她的孙子中邪了”。骗子告诉她，要驱走邪灵，“你必须回家去，把钱和首饰都拿来。”陈华堂说，“那个女人把钱都藏在地下室里。她取来了4万到5万美元，还有她的珠宝。”
Older immigrants tend to be targets for reasons that go beyond their age or their isolation, prosecutors and social scientists say. Blessings, superstitions and notions of karma are embedded in Chinese culture, extending from rituals in Buddhist temples to local fortune tellers.
检方和社会学家表示，上了年纪的移民往往会成为目标，原因不仅仅是他们年纪大或孤独。祈福、迷信和因果报应观念根植于中国文化，从佛教寺庙里的仪式到当地的算命师，不一而足。
Peter Kwong, a professor of Asian-American studies at Hunter College, said that many people had probably carried their traditions with them to the United States: It was common in rural Chinese communities, he said, to check in with a fortune teller before making decisions.
亨特学院(Hunter College)研究亚裔美国人的教授彼得·孔(Peter Kwong)表示，很多人可能把自己的传统带到了美国：他说，在中国农村地区，做决定前找人算一算的现象很普遍。
“You consult a soothsayer regularly, almost as if you consult a shrink regularly,” Mr. Kwong said.
“会经常找人算命，几乎就像定期见心理医生一样，”彼得·孔说。
Shame can complicate investigations, since many victims are afraid to come forward, prosecutors say. The victims in Thursday’s case were not named in the indictment, and efforts to reach previous victims were unsuccessful.
检方称，感到羞愧会让调查变得复杂起来，因为很多受害人不敢站出来。周四那起案件中受害人的名字未出现在起诉书中，而且联系之前的受害人均未成功。
Often, according to prosecutors in Brooklyn and Manhattan, victims do not report the crime because they do not speak English, or because they lack legal status or are worried they would forfeit government benefits if they revealed they had been holding large amounts of cash.
据布鲁克林和曼哈顿的检察官介绍，受害人不报案是因为他们不会说英语，或是因为没有合法地位，又或是担心如果暴露自己持有大量资金便会失去政府的救济金。
Chief Dowling said that while the crime seemed to be on the upswing now, its high point was in 2012 and 2013. “We were getting hit to a larger degree; there was probably 70 cases back then,” he said.
道林警长表示，尽管这种犯罪现在似乎处于上升趋势，但它的高潮是在2012年和2013年。“我们当时受到的打击更大，那会儿可能有70起案件，”他说。
But the cases are unlikely to end, authorities said. “As long as there’s money to be made, it will continue,” said Kin Ng, an assistant district attorney in Brooklyn and the chief of the Immigrant Fraud Unit. “These types of crimes are just too lucrative.”
但当局表示，这类案件不太可能会消失。“只要有钱可赚，就会继续，”布鲁克林助理地区检察官、移民欺诈小组组长吴建宏(Kin Ng)说。“这种犯罪简直太好赚钱了。”