A Chinese ship warned an American guided missile cruiser to move away from China’s aircraft carrier in the South China Sea on Dec. 5, according to a Chinese account that confirms many of the elements of the incident as described by the United States Navy this week.
一艘中国军舰12月5日在南海向一艘美国导弹巡洋舰发出警告，让其驶离中国的航空母舰，中国的一篇报道称，这篇报道部分证实了美国海军本周对这一事件的描述。
The report in the state-run Global Times newspaper said that the Chinese ship, an amphibious landing vessel, forced the American captain to take “emergency evasive action,” a term similar to that used by the United States Navy.
国家媒体《环球时报》的这篇报道称，一艘中国两栖登陆舰迫使“考本斯”号舰长下达“紧急规避”命令，这一说法与美国海军的用词类似。
The Global Times report, citing the People’s Liberation Army Navy as its source, said the American cruiser, the Cowpens, was conducting surveillance of the aircraft carrier, the Liaoning, a contention the Pentagon did not deny on Monday.
《环球时报》引用中国人民解放军熟悉内情人士的话说，美国巡洋舰“考本斯”号当时正在对航空母舰“辽宁”号进行侦察监视，五角大楼在周一没有否认这一说法。
The Chinese report appeared to be fairly low-key, and said that China is still preparing to participate for the first time in a major naval exercise next year, known as Rimpac, hosted by the United States Pacific Command based in Hawaii. The Chinese Foreign Affairs Ministry has not mentioned the encounter in regular news briefings, and the Defense Ministry has not responded to requests for comment.
这篇中国报道似乎相当低调，报道称，中国仍准备参加明年的“环太平洋”(Rimpac)多国海军联合演习，这将是中国首次派舰前往夏威夷参加由美國太平洋司令部做东的军演。中国外交部在例行记者会上没有提及军舰相遇一事，国防部没有回应置评要求。
The United States Navy contends that there was a near collision between the Cowpens and the amphibious vessel. The Global Times account does not say how close the vessels were when the warning was given.
美国海军称，“考本斯”号和中国的两栖登陆舰几乎相撞。《环球时报》的报道没有说发警报时两艘军舰之间的距离多远。
A Pentagon spokesman said on Monday that the Chinese amphibious vessel came within 500 yards of the Cowpens. Other American officials have said that the Chinese amphibious ship was closer.
五角大楼发言人周一说，这艘中国两栖登陆舰与“考本斯”号之间的距离不到500米。其他美国官员说，中国两栖登陆舰的距离更近。
Despite the restrained reaction by China, the incident underscores the fast-growing maritime rivalry between China and the United States, and highlights the surveillance practices of the United States military that have long irritated China.
尽管中国对此事的反应比较克制，但这一事件却突显了中美在海上的对抗日益增长，也突显了长期以来让中国恼怒的美国军队的侦查活动。
The encounter happened close to the area of the South China Sea where an American EP-3 surveillance aircraft collided with a Chinese fighter jet in 2001, and where a tense confrontation between a United States Navy surveillance ship, the Impeccable, and five Chinese ships occurred in 2009.
这次事件发生地点距离2001年美国EP-3侦察机与中国战斗机在南海上相撞处不远，2009年美国海军侦查舰“无瑕号”(Impeccable)也在这里与五艘中国舰只发生过紧张的对峙。
Retired Rear Adm. Yin Zhuo told the website of the People’s Daily, the official newspaper of the Chinese Communist Party, that the Cowpens traveled alongside the “main ships” of the aircraft carrier group, and that the Cowpens interfered with the aircraft carrier’s movements.
已退休的海军少将尹卓对中国共产党官方媒体人民网记者称，“考本斯”号当时是在我方航母编队内与我“主要舰艇”伴行，阻挠我方训练航行。
Both the Chinese and the American vessels were in international waters far away from China’s 12-mile territorial line, Admiral Yin said.
尹卓说，美国和中国的军舰当时都在公海上，离中国20公里的领海海域很远。
The surveillance did not violate international law, said Admiral Yin, who is the director of the Chinese Navy Advisory Committee for Information and is considered a moderate voice among often shrill military commentators in the Chinese media.
尹卓表示，侦察行动没有违反国际法，尹卓现任中国人民解放军海军信息化专家委员会主任，被认为是中国媒体军事评论员中比较温和的声音，军事评论员常常发声强烈。
But when an American ship gets too close to a Chinese ship, “Then, sorry, we will stop you,” he said. He added: “The U.S. side did not violate international law and we did not violate international law.”
但是，他说，如果美国舰只太靠近中国舰只时，“对不起，我们必须让你停下来。”他还补充说，“美国没有违反国际法，我们也没有违反国际法。”
An online version of the Global Times story carried a rough map with red lines showing where the Chinese aircraft carrier was traveling, and where its accompanying ships were in relation to the carrier and to the Cowpens. A blue line shows the Cowpens making an abrupt turn close to the red line that indicates the accompanying Chinese ships.
《环球时报》在网上的版本还附带了一张示意图，用红线显示了中国航空母舰的航向、其伴行舰队与航空母舰的位置，以及它们相对“考本斯”号的位置。蓝线显示的是“考本斯”号在接近红线时突然调头，红线表示的是伴行的中国舰队。
According to the Global Times account, when the captain of the Chinese amphibious vessel warned the Cowpens to move away, the American captain contacted the Chinese captain and, “after simple exchanges,” both sides left the area.
据《环球时报》报道，中国两栖登陆舰舰长向“考本斯”号发出警告，要求其离开时，“考本斯”号舰长与中国舰长取得联系，并“在简单的沟通与交流之后”双方均驶离这一区域。
The question of American surveillance of Chinese military capacities has been an issue between the two militaries for some time, said Lyle J. Goldstein, a professor at the China Maritime Studies Institute at the Naval War College in Rhode Island.
位于罗德岛的海军战争学院(Naval War College)教授莱尔·J·戈尔茨坦(Lyle J. Goldstein)说，美国对中国军事能力进行侦查对两军关系来说是一个问题已有一段时间。
Even though the Liaoning, a refurbished Ukrainian aircraft carrier, is not fully operational and does not carry a full complement of aircraft, the United States is eager to learn more about it, naval experts said. The carrier was on its first voyage in the South China Sea, and more accessible to American surveillance than at its home port in the northern city of Qingdao.
海军专家称，尽管“辽宁”号还没有全面运行，也不能运载一套完整的飞机，但美国还是急切地希望了解它。“辽宁”号是用乌克兰航空母舰改装的，这是该舰首次在南海航行，与停泊在北部城市青岛的母港相比，在南海航行更容易被美国侦查。
One of China’s preconditions for improved military relations with the United States is a halt to American surveillance activities at sea and in the air, Mr. Goldstein said.
戈尔茨坦说，中国与美国改善军事关系的先决条件之一是要求美国停止空中和海上对中国的侦查活动。
“In multiple interactions with Chinese military naval and maritime personnel, they have expressed consternation, frustration and even outrage with respect to surveillance activities by United States forces in areas proximate to China,” he said. “They have also alleged that such activities have increased in frequency.”
他说，“在与中国海军和海事人员的多次交流中，他们对美国在中国附近地区进行的侦查表示震惊、失望甚至是愤怒。他们还称这类活动的频率在增加。”
The Chinese interpret the surveillance as hostile, and as an example of what they call a cold war mind-set by the United States toward China, he said. On the American side, some military officers argue that the kind of surveillance that occurred between the United States and the Soviet Union was healthy because it let each side know what the other was doing, Mr. Goldstein said.
他说，中国认为这种侦查是敌意的，他们称这是美国对中国冷战思维的一个例子。戈尔茨坦说，从美国方面来说，一些军官认为美国和苏联之间的侦查活动是健康的，因为这让双方知道对方在做什么。
How to balance the tension between the American military’s demand to understand China’s strategic intentions, and the diplomatic imperative of maintaining a stable relationship between China and the United States, is one of the big challenges ahead, he said.
他说，在美国军方想了解中国战略意图的需求和中美保持稳定关系的外交必要性这个矛盾中找到平衡，是未来所面临的最大挑战之一。