With tensions between China and the United States growing over a range of political and economic issues, the Chinese government is using the 35th anniversary of diplomatic relations this year as part of an intensified effort to soften its image.
随着一系列政治和经济问题令美中关系日渐紧张，中国政府正在发起一场强势的行动来软化自身形象，其中包括利用今年两国建交35周年的机会。
Combining the anniversary with the Chinese New Year, China has moved to expand friendly cultural exchanges with the United States and promote a series of prominent collaborations in music, dance and education, particularly in New York.
结合周年纪念和中国农历新年，中国着手扩大与美国的友好文化交流活动，在音乐、舞蹈和教育等领域促成了一系列令人瞩目的合作，其中尤以纽约为重点。
The effort, an acknowledged priority of China’s ruling Communist Party, partly reflects what both countries regard as a deepening intertwined relationship between the world’s two leading economic powers, which hardly seemed possible when embassies were formally established on Jan. 1, 1979.
中国共产党承认这是一次重要的行动，它在一定程度上反映出，当今世界的两个头号经济大国都认识到，二者的关系已经越来越紧密地联系在一起，而这一点在双方于1979年1月1日建立大使级关系时是很难预见到的。
But it also comes against a backdrop of rising mistrust of China among Americans who see it as an economic and military threat. A surge of Chinese investments in American holdings, ranging from Treasury debt to commercial real estate, coupled with frictions that have accompanied China’s rapid expansion and assertiveness toward its Asian neighbors, are viewed as part of the reason.
然而在紧密相连的背后，美国人对中国的不信任也在加剧，他们视这个国家为一种经济和军事威胁。从美国国债到商业房地产，中国在各种美国财产中的投资都出现激增，再加上中国的快速扩张和针对亚洲邻国的强硬态度所引发的摩擦，都是这种不信任的来源。
A poll released by Pew Research earlier this week found that just 33 percent of the American public has a favorable view of China, compared with 51 percent in 2011.
皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)本周早些时候发布了一个民调结果，发现在美国公众中对中国持正面看法的人只占33%，而2011年有51%。
“The Chinese are looking for a much more rounded image that they feel they deserve,” said Shirley Young, an American of Chinese descent and chairwoman of the U.S.-China Cultural Institute, a New York-based group that has been helping to advise and organize China’s new cultural exchange outreach. In some ways, she said in an interview on Friday, “we are still strangers to each other.”
“中国人正在寻求一种更丰满的形象，一种他们认为算是公允的评价，”美中文化中心(U.S.-China Cultural Institute)的华裔美籍主席杨雪兰(Shirley Young)说，这家位于纽约的机构一直在中国的新一轮文化交流尝试中帮助进行顾问和组织工作。她在周五的一次采访中说，从某些方面看，“我们并不了解对方。”
Ms. Young, a business consultant and former executive at General Motors who helped the company’s expansion into China starting in the late 1980s, said that the 35th anniversary of relations provided a useful reminder of just how close both countries have become.
作为一名商业顾问和前通用汽车公司(General Motors)高管，杨雪兰曾在上世纪80年代末通用进入中国市场时发挥作用，她说两国建交35周年是一种有效的提醒，让人们看到两国的关系已经如此紧密。
Nowhere are the consequences more visible than in New York, home to one of the largest populations in the Chinese diaspora, where the 35th anniversary has been combined with the advent of Chinese New Year celebrations this weekend. Historically a spectacle confined to New York’s Chinatown communities, the Chinese New Year — this is the Year of the Horse — has been promoted throughout the city.
没有什么地方比纽约更能看到这种变化的成果，这里有着为数众多的中国移民，而本周末庆祝周年之际，也恰逢中国新年的到来。以往向来局限于纽约唐人街社区的中国新年——今年是马年——这一次被推广到了全市。
Chinese diplomats including the ambassador, Cui Tiankai, were invited to ring the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange on Jan. 6. Earlier this week China’s consul general in New York, Sun Guoxiang, flipped the switch for the Empire State Building’s Chinese New Year lights.
1月6日，包括崔天凯大使在内的中国外交官受邀前往纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)敲响了开市钟。本周早些时候，中国驻纽约总领事孙国祥点亮了帝国大厦的中国新年灯光。
The most notable event is a New Year concert on Saturday by the New York Philharmonic at its Lincoln Center home, conducted by Long Yu, director of the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra. The program will present Chinese classical music to an American audience of the cultural elite. The Lincoln Center event also includes an outdoor performance by 75 children of New York’s National Dance Institute, which has a growing educational exchange program in China.
最受关注的活动则是纽约爱乐乐团(New York Philharmonic)周六在其林肯中心驻地举行的音乐会，由上海交响乐团总监余隆担任指挥。音乐会向一众美国文化精英介绍了中国古典音乐。此外林肯中心的活动还包括一场室外演出，由纽约国家舞蹈协会(National Dance Institute)的75名儿童表演，该协会正在和中国进行越来越多的教育交流项目。
For the New York Philharmonic, the performance is an expansion of a collaboration with the Shanghai Symphony that began a few years ago and reflects a view in the classical music world that China will be its savior, with at least 40 million aspiring musicians and enthusiastic audiences who are mostly young.
在纽约爱乐方面，音乐会是它和上海交响乐团在几年前开始的一次合作的延伸，这项合作反映了中国将是古典音乐拯救者的看法，那里拥有至少4000万怀揣音乐家理想的人，以及以年轻人为主的热情听众。
Bonnie S. Glaser, a senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic & International Studies in Washington, said the Chinese government viewed such cultural exchanges as “low-hanging fruit” that strengthens relations despite political disagreements.
华盛顿的美国战略与国际问题研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)高级亚洲顾问邦妮·S·格拉泽(Bonnie S. Glaser)说，在中国政府看来，在政治分歧面前，类似的文化交流是巩固两国关系的一些“唾手可得”的手段。
“This is sort of an expanding area of U.S.-China relations,” she said. “And the Chinese very much want to have a stable relationship with us. It does worry them when Americans are shown in polls to be less positive on China.”
“在美中关系中，这个领域在一定程度上是在扩张的，”她说。“中国很希望跟我们保持稳定的关系。当民调反映出美国人对中国的看法不怎么正面时，他们真的有些担心。”