BEIJING — China, the world’s leading emitter of greenhouse gases from coal, is burning far more annually than previously thought, according to new government data. The finding could vastly complicate the already difficult efforts to limit global warming.
北京——中国是全球燃煤温室气体排放量最多的国家之一，政府发布的新数据显示，中国目前的燃煤量远超以前的估算。这让本已十分艰难的抑制全球变暖行动变得更加复杂。
Even for a country of China’s size and opacity, the scale of the correction is immense. China has been consuming as much as 17 percent more coal each year than reported, according to the new government figures. By some initial estimates, that could translate to almost a billion more tons of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere annually in recent years, more than all of Germany emits from fossil fuels.
即使对于中国这样一个庞大而不透明的国家，本次的数据修正幅度也是相当巨大的。政府的新数据显示，中国每年消耗的煤炭比此前的报告高出17%。根据一些初步估计，这可能表示最近数年中，中国每年排放到大气中的二氧化碳多出了逾10亿吨，超过德国所有化石能源的排放量。
Officials from around the world will have to come to grips with the new figures when they gather in Paris this month to negotiate an international framework for curtailing greenhouse-gas pollution. The data also pose a challenge for scientists who are trying to reduce China’s smog, which often bathes whole regions in acrid, unhealthy haze.
世界各地的官员本月齐聚巴黎，商讨削减温室气体排放的国际框架时，将不得不应对这些新的数字。而这也对一些试图减少雾霾的科学家提出了挑战，这种刺鼻、有损健康的霾经常笼罩着中国大片地区。
The Chinese government has promised to halt the growth of its emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse pollutant from coal and other fossil fuels, by 2030. The new data suggest that the task of meeting that deadline by reducing China’s dependence on coal will be more daunting and urgent than expected, said Yang Fuqiang, a former energy official in China who now advises the Natural Resources Defense Council.
二氧化碳是煤炭等化石能源排放的主要温室气体，中国政府承诺将在2030年以前遏制二氧化碳排放量的增长。自然资源保护协会(Natural Resources Defense Council)顾问、前中国能源官员杨富强说，新的数据表明，减少中国的煤炭依赖、在最后期限前达成目标的难度和紧迫性是超出预期的。
“This will have a big impact, because China has been burning so much more coal than we believed,” Mr. Yang said. “It turns out that it was an even bigger emitter than we imagined. This helps to explain why China’s air quality is so poor, and that will make it easier to get national leaders to take this seriously.”
“这将产生重大影响，因为中国的燃煤量远远超过我们的料想，”杨富强说。“结果中国的排放量比我们的想象还要多。这就帮助解释了中国的空气质量为何如此糟糕，容易促使国家领导人重视这一问题。”
The adjusted data, which appeared recently in an energy statistics yearbook published without fanfare by China’s statistical agency, show that coal consumption has been underestimated since 2000, and particularly in recent years. The revisions were based on a census of the economy in 2013 that exposed gaps in data collection, especially from small companies and factories.
这些经过调整的数据出现在最近出版的能源统计年鉴中，没有了中国统计部门的美化后，数据显示2000年以来的煤炭消耗量被低估，特别是最近几年的消耗量。此次修正是根据2013年的经济普查做出的，普查曝露了数据收集上的差异，特别是小公司和工厂的数据。
Illustrating the scale of the revision, the new figures add about 600 million tons to China’s coal consumption in 2012 — an amount equivalent to more than 70 percent of the total coal used annually by the United States.
新数据显示了校正规模，将中国2012年的煤炭消耗量增加了大约6亿吨——相当于美国每年煤炭消耗总量的逾70%。
“It’s been a confusing situation for a long time,” said Ayaka Jones, a China analyst at the United States Energy Information Administration in Washington. She said the new data vindicated her earlier analysis of China’s preliminary statistics, which flagged significantly increased numbers for coal use and overall energy consumption.
“这种令人费解的情况长期存在，”美国能源情报署(United States Energy Information Administration)的中国分析师钱文华说。她表示，新数据证明了她之前对中国初步统计数据的分析是正确的，表明煤炭使用量及能源消耗总量显著增加。
The new data indicated that much of the change came from heavy industry — including plants that produce coal chemicals and cement, as well as those using coking coal, which goes to make steel, Ms. Jones said. The correction for coal use in electric power generation was much smaller.
钱文华表示，新数据说明，大部分变化源自重工业，包括生产煤化学制品和水泥的工厂，以及利用焦煤炼钢的工厂。发电燃煤量的校正范围要小得多。
Officials accepted the need to correct worsening distortions in the old data but have not commented publicly on the changes, according to Lin Boqiang, director of the China Center for Energy Economics Research at Xiamen University in eastern China. Mr. Lin said in a telephone interview that this was partly because the new figures made it more complicated to set and assess the country’s clean-energy goals.
据厦门大学能源经济研究中心主任林伯强透露，官员们承认需要调整越来越失真的旧数据，但没有公开就数据变化发表评论。林伯强接受电话采访时表示，这部分是因为新数据使得中国清洁能源目标的设定和评估变得更加复杂。
“It’s created a lot of consternation,” he said. “Our basic data will have to be adjusted, and the international agencies will also have to adjust their databases. This is troublesome because many forecasts and commitments were based on the previous data.”
“这引发了很多恐慌，”他说。“我们的基本数据将需要调整，国际机构也需要调整他们的数据库。这有点麻烦，因为很多预测和承诺是在之前的数据基础上做出的。”
When President Xi Jinping proposed that China’s emissions stop growing by 2030, he did not say what level they would reach by then. The new numbers may mean that the peak will be higher, but they also raise hopes that emissions will crest many years sooner, Mr. Yang, the climate adviser, said.
当习近平提出中国的年排放量将在2030年以前停止增长时，并没有说排放量届时将达到什么水平。新的数字可能意味着峰值会更高，但气候顾问杨富强说，这也意味着排放量有希望提前数年达到峰值。
“I think this implies that we’re closer to a peak, because there’s also been a falloff in coal consumption in the past couple of years,” he said.
“我认为，这意味着我们目前离峰值更为接近，因为在过去几年中，煤炭消耗量已经出现了下滑趋势，”他说。
Chinese energy and statistics agency officials did not respond to faxed requests for comment on the data revisions.
对就本次数据修正予以置评的传真请求，中国能源统计机构官员未予回应。
The press office of the International Energy Agency said by email that the organization would revise its own data to reflect China’s revisions, starting with numbers for 2011 to 2013 that will be released Wednesday. The agency estimated, based on the new figures, that China’s carbon dioxide pollution in 2011 and 2012 was 4 percent to 6 percent greater than previously thought.
国际能源署（International Energy Agency，简称IEA）的新闻办公室通过电邮表示，为了反映中国的数据修正，该组织也将修正自己的数据，并在周三公布2011到2013年的新数字。该机构估计，新的数据将显示，中国在2011和2012年的二氧化碳污染将比之前以为的高出4%至6%。
But some scientists said the difference could be much larger.
但也有科学家表示，差异可能会更大。
Jan Ivar Korsbakken, a senior researcher at the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Oslo, said that based on his preliminary analysis, the new data implied that China had released about 900 million metric tons more carbon dioxide from 2011 to 2013.
奥斯陆国际气候与环境研究中心(Center for International Climate and Environmental Research)高级研究员扬·伊瓦尔·科尔斯巴肯(Jan Ivar Korsbakken)表示，根据他的初步分析，新数据表明，中国从2011到2013年多排放了大约9亿公吨的二氧化碳。
That would be an 11 percent increase in emissions, he said. For comparison, the International Energy Agency estimated before the revision that China had emitted 8.25 billion tons of carbon dioxide from fossil fuels in 2012. Dr. Korsbakken, a physicist, emphasized that deeper analysis of the new data was needed before firm conclusions could be drawn.
他表示，这会促使排放增加11%。相比之下，在修正数据之前，国际能源署(International Energy Agency)估计中国在2012年因燃烧化石燃料排放了82.5亿吨二氧化碳。身为物理学家的科尔斯巴肯强调，需要对新数据做进一步的分析才能得出确凿的结论。
When estimating emissions, scientists prefer to account for coal use by the amount of energy in it rather than by its raw mass, which includes impurities that end up as ash. Measured in energy terms, Dr. Korsbakken said, China consumed 10 percent to 15 percent more coal than the old data had showed from 2005 to 2013, the last year for which the new and old figures can be compared. The revisions for 2001 through 2004 were smaller.
估算排放量时，科学家们倾向使用煤炭的能量来计算煤炭使用量，而不是原始质量，后者会包括最终成为灰烬的杂质。科尔斯巴肯表示，按照能量计算，中国在2005年到2013年消耗的煤炭比旧数据多10%到15%，2013年是最后一个可以就新旧数据对比的年份。2001到2004年排放量的修正幅度要小得多。
Economists have grown increasingly skeptical about the economic data China publishes, and the revisions open a new episode in the debate over its energy use and greenhouse-gas emissions. These emissions now far exceed those of any other country, including the United States, the second-largest emitter.
经济学家对中国公布的经济数据正在产生越来越多的怀疑，而此次修正促使中国能源使用和温室气体排放的争论进入一个新的阶段。中国的排放量目前远远超过了其他任何一个国家，包括第二大排放国美国。
This is not the first time that China has underestimated its coal consumption. In the late 1990s, small coal mines were ordered to close, but many of them simply stopped reporting their output to the government. For a time, this created an erroneous impression that China had succeeded in generating economic growth without increasing emissions.
这不是中国第一次低估了其煤炭消耗量。在20世纪90年代末，小煤矿被责令关闭，但其中很多煤矿只是停止向政府报告产量。在一段时间内，这带来一种错误印象，即中国成功地在没有增加排放量的情况下实现经济增长。
More recently, some scientists concluded that China’s emissions were lower than widely believed because the coal it was using was of lower quality and burned less efficiently than researchers had generally assumed. But Mr. Yang said that conclusion had been disputed.
最近，一些科学家们断定，中国的排放量低于人们普遍认为的水平，因为中国使用的煤炭质量差，燃烧效率低于研究人员通常认为的水平。但杨富强表示，这一结论存在争议。
The revised numbers do not alter scientists’ estimates of the total amount of carbon dioxide in the air. That is measured directly, not inferred from fuel consumption statistics the way countries’ emissions are usually estimated.
经过调整的数据没有改变科学家们对空气中二氧化碳总量的估算。该数据是直接测量的，而不是根据各国通常使用的排放估算方式进行推断。
So if China’s emissions have been much greater than believed, researchers will want to understand where the extra carbon dioxide output ended up — for example, how it might have been absorbed in natural “sinks” like forests or oceans, said Josep G. Canadell, executive director of the Global Carbon Project, which studies the sources and flows of greenhouse-gas pollution.
全球碳计划(Global Carbon Project)总干事何塞普·G·卡纳德利(Josep G. Canadell)表示，如果中国的排放量远高于人们之前认为的水平，研究人员会想了解额外的二氧化碳的最终去向——比如，可能被森林或海洋等自然“碳汇”吸收。该项目研究温室气体污染的来源及流向。