The Chinese government has often brandished its feats of building vast dams and channeling rivers as triumphs of engineering. Not this time. This week a first leg of what the government calls the world’s biggest water transfer project officially started in a mood of subdued resignation.
中国政府常常炫耀自己在建设巨坝和改变河道方面的功绩，认为它们是工程学上的伟大壮举。但这一次，中国政府却没有这么做。本周，被中国称作“世界最大调水工程”的项目的一期工程在低落和无奈的气氛中正式开始运营。
On Tuesday, the eastern route of the South-to-North Water Diversion project began officially drawing water from the Yangtze River and carrying it to Dezhou in Shandong Province, where urbanization and industrialization have devoured local sources, as they have in much of northern China, according to state media reports. The project is, along with the Three Gorges Dam, an example of the Chinese government’s willingness to apply huge resources to harness rivers for national development.
根据国有媒体报道，周二，南水北调东线工程正式开始从长江引水，并输水到山东德州。就像中国北方的大部分城市一样，山东德州在城市化和工业化的进程中消耗了当地大量资源。该项目和长江三峡大坝都是中国政府想要动用大量资源，利用河流为国家发展提供助力的例证。
Construction began 11 years ago, after the government endorsed the plan as a solution to China’s increasingly acute water needs: Take water from the relatively abundant south — especially the Yangtze River, along two routes, through central and eastern provinces — to supply Beijing and other increasingly needy parts of the north.
施工从11年前就开始了，此前，为了解决中国对水资源日益迫切的需求，政府批准了这个计划：从水资源相对充足的南方——尤其是长江——取水，沿着两条线路，穿越中部和东部省份——输水给北京和中国北方其他水资源需求日益增长的地区。
But the project has been troubled. It has suffered delays, cost overruns, feuds among officials over who pays for and who gets the water, and bitter contention over resettling more than 300,000 people, mostly poor farming families, to make way for an expanded dam and canals along the central route. And water along both routes, especially the eastern one, still suffers from worrisome pollution.
但该项目进展一直不顺。项目多次遭遇延期，成本超出计划，官员们在谁付钱及谁该得到水的问题上争执不休。此外，为了扩建大坝和开辟中线河道需要迁移超过30万人口，其中大多数是贫穷的务农家庭，他们的安置问题也引发了激烈纠纷。另一方面，两个线路的河道，尤其是东线，污染问题堪忧。
The first phase of the eastern route officially started operation this week with relatively little fanfare. President Xi Jinping issued a message that was as much admonishment as praise.
东线一期项目本周正式运营，相对而言没有进行太多宣传。中国国家主席习近平做出的批示中，除了表扬，也有所训诫。
“I hope that everyone will sum up the lessons,” Mr. Xi said in comments published on the central government’s website on Sunday. “Strengthen management, make ceaseless efforts, ensure the project operates smoothly and that water quality is consistently up to standard.”
习近平在上周日发布在政府网站上的批示中说，“希望大家总结经验，加强管理，再接再厉，确保工程运行平稳、水质稳定达标。”
When finished, the first phase of the eastern route will have 912 miles, or 1,467 kilometers, of main canals and waterways and will also transport water to Anhui and Jiangsu provinces. The central route, which starts at the Danjiangkou Dam in Hubei Province, is due to start taking water next year along 793 miles of canals from a tributary of the Yangtze River to Beijing. An offshoot of that central route will also take water to Tianjin, the northern port city. And there is discussion of another route in western China.
东线一期工程完工后，干线全长912英里，即1467公里，供水范围还包括安徽省和江苏省。中线的起点是湖北省的丹江口大坝，明年将开始取水，并沿着793英里长的河道将长江水输送到北京。中线的一个分支还会把水输送到北方的港口城市天津。政府正在讨论在中国西部开设另一条线路的可能性。
Ma Jun, an environmental advocate in Beijing who monitors water pollution through his Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, said the muted official tone reflected a recognition that the project could, at best, ease northern China’s water shortages, but not provide a lasting solution.
马军是北京的一名环保倡导者，他管理的公众环境政策研究中心(Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs)致力于监控水污染状况。他说，官员们降低了的调门反映出，他们已经认识到，这个工程顶多能缓解中国北方的水资源短缺，并不是一个长期的解决方案。
“The project can be seen as emergency relief,” he said in a telephone interview. He said that pollution had eased along the eastern route but remained a persistent problem, and for now the water would be suitable only for industrial use, not drinking.
马军在接受电话采访时说，“该工程可以被看做是一个应急措施。他说，虽然东线河道的污染已经缓解，但仍然是一个长期问题，目前，这些水只适合工业用途，不适宜饮用。”
“It’s not a moment for celebration. There should be a sobering review of how we cornered ourselves so that we had to undertake a project with so much social and environmental impact,” he said.
他说，“现在不是庆祝的时候。我们应该清醒地反思，我们是如何把自己逼到了走投无路的地步，以至于不得不实施一个对社会和环境造成如此大不利影响的项目。”
“To some extent, the north has subjected water resources to unsustainable exploitation because they’ve known that one day they’d get this water.”
从某种程度上来说，因为知道最终可以得到南水北调的水，北方一直在用一种不具可持续性的方式利用水资源。
Initially, officials seem to have underestimated that social and environmental impact. The project was overseen by the previous administration of President Hu Jintao, who trained as a dam engineer, and yet even the officials who oversaw its construction have recently sounded jaded.
最初，官员们似乎低估了该工程的社会和环境影响。该项目曾由前中国国家主席胡锦涛的政府管理，而他曾接受过作为水利工程师的训练。不过，即使是那些监管过项目建设的官员们最近也显得底气不足。
In an interview with a Chinese newspaper in October, Zhang Jiyao, the director of the central government office overseeing the South-to-North Water Diversion project from 2003 to 2010, said the cost of the first phase had grown from an initial estimate of 1.24 trillion renminbi to about 3 trillion renminbi, or about $200 billion to $490 billion at current exchange rates.
今年10月接受一家中国报纸采访时，2003年到2010年担任国务院南水北调办公室主任的张基尧说，一期的成本已经从最初估计的人民币1.24万亿元增加到3万亿元，在目前汇率下，相当于从大约2000亿美元增长到4900亿美元。
Mr. Zhang told the newspaper, Southern Weekend, that he worried that the water from the transfer project would be so costly that factories and farmers would continue digging wells to tap into increasingly scarce natural underground reservoirs, and he also warned about pollution spills.
张基尧告诉《南方周末》，他担心由于南水北调输送的水相当昂贵，因而工厂和农民可能会继续打井，利用日益稀缺的地下水资源，他还警告说，水污染可能会加剧。
“Frankly, I’m still not much at ease,” he told the paper. “Whether water quality can be assured over the long term is something that troubles me. If the water quality deteriorates, or if the canals suffer pollution because of poor conservation, then the efforts of the South-to-North Water Diversion project will effectively come to naught.”
他告诉《南方周末》，“说实话，我到现在心里面还不十分踏实。能不能长期保证水质合格也是我放心不下的。万一水质变差或调水渠道因保护不好造成污染，南水北调等于前功尽弃。”