BEIJING — From the moment Turkey announced plans two years ago to acquire a long-range missile defense system, the multibillion-dollar contract from a key NATO member appeared to be an American company’s to lose.
北京——两年前，北约(NATO)重要成员国土耳其宣布，计划采购一套远程导弹防御系统。从那一刻起，最有望赢得这个价值数十亿美元的合同的，似乎就是美国公司。
For years, Turkey’s military had relied on NATO-supplied Patriot missiles, built by the American companies Raytheon and Lockheed Martin, to defend its skies, and the system was fully compatible with the air-defense platforms operated by other members of the alliance.
多年来，土耳其军方一直依靠由北约提供、美国雷神公司(Raytheon)和洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockheed Martin)制造的“爱国者”(Patriot)导弹，来保卫自己的领空，这个系统跟与北约其他成员国的防空平台系统完全兼容。
There were other contenders for the deal, of course. Rival manufacturers in Russia and Europe made bids. Turkey rejected those — but not in favor of the American companies. Its selection last month of a little-known Chinese defense company, China Precision Machinery Export-Import Corporation, stunned the military-industrial establishment in Washington and Brussels.
这份合同当然还有其他的竞争者，俄罗斯和欧洲军工制造业的竞争者也参与了投标。土耳其虽然拒绝了这些投标，但是也没有相中美国公司。上个月，土耳其选中了一家鲜为人知的中国军工企业，名为中国精密机械进出口总公司，这震惊了华盛顿和布鲁塞尔的整个军工产业。
The sale was especially unusual because the Chinese missile defense system, known as the HQ-9, would be difficult to integrate with existing NATO equipment. China Precision is also subject to sanctions from the United States for selling technologies that the United States says could help Iran, Syria and North Korea develop unconventional weapons. A State Department spokeswoman said this month that American officials had expressed to the Turkish government “serious concerns” about the deal, which has not yet been signed.
此事之所以特别不同寻常，是因为中国的“红旗–9”(HQ–9)导弹防御系统跟北约的现有装备难以整合。而且，中国精密机械进出口总公司还受到了美国制裁，因为美国认为它出售了可以帮助伊朗、叙利亚和朝鲜开发非常规武器的技术。本月，美国国务院(State Department)的一位女发言人说，对于这份尚未签署的武器销售协议，美国官员已经向土耳其政府表示了“严重关切”。
Industry executives and arms-sales analysts say the Chinese probably beat out their more established rivals by significantly undercutting them on price, offering their system at $3 billion. Nonetheless, Turkey’s selection of a Chinese state-owned manufacturer is a breakthrough for China, a nation that has set its sights on moving up the value chain in arms technology and establishing itself as a credible competitor in the global weapons market.
业内高管和军售分析师说，中国可能靠着价格上的巨大优势击败了更加成熟的竞争对手，“红旗–9”系统的售价为30亿美元（约合182亿元人民币）。但是对于中国来说，土耳其选择了该国的国有制造商是一大突破。中国的目光已经投向了这样的目标：在军工技术价值链中向上移动，并在全球武器市场上成为一个受人信赖的竞争者。
“This is a remarkable win for the Chinese arms industry,” said Pieter Wezeman, a senior researcher at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, which tracks arms sales and transfers.
“对于中国军工行业来说，这是一个了不起的胜利。”斯德哥尔摩国际和平研究所(Stockholm International Peace Research Institute)的高级研究员皮耶特·魏泽曼(Pieter Wezeman)说。该机构对全球武器销售和转让进行跟踪。
In the past, Chinese companies have been known mainly as suppliers of small arms, but that is changing quickly. From drones to frigates to fighter jets, the companies are aggressively pushing foreign sales of high-tech hardware to other nations, mostly in the developing world. Russian companies are feeling the greatest pressure, but American and other Western companies are also increasingly running into the Chinese.
过去，中国军工企业供应的主要是小型武器，但这种情况正在迅速改变。从无人机、护卫舰到战斗机，这些公司正在积极推动高科技武器在国外、主要是发展中国家的销售。俄罗斯公司感到的压力最大，但美国和其他西方国家的企业也越来越多地在竞争中跟中国公司正面遭遇。
“China will be competing with us in many, many domains, and in the high end,” said Marwan Lahoud, the head of strategy and marketing at European Aeronautic Defense and Space, Europe’s largest aerospace company. “Out of 100 campaigns, that is, the commercial prospects we have, we may have the Chinese in front of us among the competitors in about three or four. They have the full range of capabilities and they are offering them.”
“中国将会在很多、很多领域跟我们竞争，而且是在高端市场。”欧洲宇航防务集团(European Aeronautic Defense and Space)的战略和营销主管马尔万·拉胡德(Marwan Lahoud)说。该公司是欧洲最大的航空航天企业。“在100次销售努力中，也就是我们有望赢得的生意里，中国人会有3到4次出现在我们前方的竞争者当中。他们拥有全方位的技术能力，而且正在出售这些技术能力。”
The Stockholm institute released a report this year on global weapons transfers that found the volume of Chinese conventional weapons exports — which included high-end aircraft, missiles, ships and artillery — jumped by 162 percent from 2008 to 2012, compared with the previous five years. Pakistan is the leading customer. The institute now estimates that China is the fifth-largest arms exporter in the world, ahead of Britain. From 2003 to 2007, China ranked eighth.
斯德哥尔摩国际和平研究所今年发布的一份全球武器转移报告称，从2008年到2012年，中国常规武器——包括高端飞机、导弹、舰艇和火炮——的出口量激增了162%，最大的客户是巴基斯坦。该研究所还估计，中国超过英国，成为了世界第五大武器出口国。从2003年到2007年，中国排名第八。
China’s foreign arms sales are also rising fast in dollar terms. According to IHS Jane’s, an industry consulting and analysis company, Chinese exports have nearly doubled over the past five years to $2.2 billion, surpassing Canada and Sweden, and making China the world’s eighth-largest exporter by value.
从销售额来看，中国的对外军售增长也很迅速。军工行业咨询和分析公司简氏信息集团(IHS Jane’s)的资料显示，中国军售出口额在过去5年里将近翻了一番，增至22亿美元，超过了加拿大和瑞典，排在世界第8位。
The total global arms trade revenue in 2012 was estimated to be $73.5 billion, and the United States had a 39 percent share, according to IHS Jane’s.
简氏的资料显示，2012年全球军火贸易总额估计为735亿美元，而美国占据了其中39%的份额。
Xu Guangyu, a retired major general in the People’s Liberation Army and director of the China Arms Control and Disarmament Association, said in an interview that the push by Chinese companies to develop and sell higher-tech arms was “a very normal phenomenon.”
解放军退役少将、中国军控与裁军协会理事徐光裕在接受采访时表示，中国企业努力开发和销售技术含量更高的武器是“非常正常的现象”。
“In arms manufacturing, China is trying to increase the quality and reduce price,” he said. “We’re driven by competition.”
他说，“在武器制造方面，中国也是在不断提高质量降低成本，我们也是受竞争因素影响的。”
Mr. Xu said that besides pricing, Chinese companies had another advantage: they do not “make demands over other governments’ status and internal policies.”
徐光裕称，除了价格之外，中国公司还有另外一个优势：他们“对于其他国家的政府状态及内政不附带任何条件”。
He added: “Our policy of noninterference applies here. Whomever is in the government, whomever has diplomatic status with us, we can talk about arms sales with them.”
他还说，“我们的不干涉政策也适用在这儿。谁在台上，谁和我们建立有外交关系，我们就可以跟他们谈军品贸易。”
Chinese officials know that China’s encroachment on Western-dominated military markets raises concerns. When asked about the missile-defense sale to Turkey, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said, “China’s military exports do no harm to peace, security and stability,” and do not “interfere with the internal affairs of recipient countries.”
中国官员明白，中国对西方主导的军事市场的蚕食引起了一些关注。在被问及向土耳其出售导弹防御系统一事时，中国外交部发言人说，“中国的军品出口，遵循不损害有关地区和世界的和平、安全与稳定，不干涉接受国内政的原则。”
The largest Chinese arms production companies, all state-owned, declined interview requests. Their finances are opaque, though there are some statistics on their Web sites and in the state news media.
中国的大型军工企业都是国有的，这些企业都拒绝了采访请求。尽管这些企业的财务状况并不透明，但在公司网站及官方媒体上出现了一些统计数据。
The China North Industries Group Corporation, or the Norinco Group, said on its Web site that its profits in 2012 were 9.81 billion renminbi, or about $1.6 billion, a 45 percent increase from 2010. Its revenues in 2012 were 361.6 billion renminbi, or about $59 billion, a 53 percent increase over 2010.
中国兵器工业集团公司又名北方工业集团(Norinco Group)，其网站上的数据显示，该公司2012年的利润为98.1亿元人民币，约合16亿美元，较2010年增长了45%。2012年的营收为3616亿元人民币，约合590亿美元，较2010年增长了53%。
Another company, the China South Industries Group Corporation, or CSGC, said on its Web site that it had profits of or about $1 billion, in 2011, on revenue of about $45 billion, both big increases over 2008.
另一家企业中国南方工业集团公司的网站上说，它在2011年的利润约为10亿美元，营收约450亿美元，相对于2008年出现了大幅增加。
China’s investment has been heaviest in fighter planes — both traditional and stealth versions — as well as in jet engines, an area in which China has until now been dependent on Western and Russian partners, said Guy Anderson, a senior military industry analyst in London with IHS Jane’s.
简氏信息集团驻伦敦的高级军工产业分析师盖伊·安德森(Guy Anderson)说，中国在战斗机（包括传统战斗机和隐形战斗机）和喷气发动机上做出的投资最多，在后一个领域，中国迄今仍需要依赖西方和俄罗斯合作伙伴的技术，
“China has been throwing billions and billions of dollars at research and development,” he said. “They also have a strategy of using the gains they get from foreign partnerships to benefit their industrial sector. So they should not have any trouble catching up with their Western competitors over the medium term, and certainly over the long term.”
“中国在研发上不断投入数以十亿计的巨额资金，”他说。“他们还计划使用从对外合作中获得的收益，来促进工业部门的发展。所以，从中期来看，他们赶上西方竞争者应该不会有任何问题，从长期来看则是必然的。”
He estimated that China was still a decade away from competing head-to-head with Western nations on the technology itself. But Chinese equipment is priced lower and could become popular in emerging markets, including in African and Latin American nations.
据他估计，中国尚需10年时间才能在技术上与西方国家正面竞争。不过，中国装备价格较低，可能会受新兴市场的欢迎，包括非洲和拉丁美洲国家。
“We are in an era of ‘good enough’ — the 90 percent solution that will do the job at the best possible price,” Mr. Anderson said. “In some cases, that may even mean buying commercial equipment, upgrading it slightly and painting it khaki.”
“我们处在一个‘够用就好’的时期，用尽可能低廉的价格解决90%的问题就行了，”安德森说。“在某些情况下，甚至就是采购民用设备，稍微升级一下，然后刷成卡其色。”
New customers for Chinese equipment include Argentina, which in 2011 signed a deal with the Chinese company Avicopter to build Z-11 light helicopters under license. Mass production for the Argentine military began this year, and a total of 40 helicopters are expected to be built over the next several years. The value of the contract has not been made public.
中国装备的新买家中就包括阿根廷。2011年，该国与中航直升机(Avicopter)签署协议，获准组装“直–11”(Z–11)轻型直升机。为阿根廷军方进行的大规模生产始于今年，预计未来几年将一共制造40架直升机。合同金额并未对外公布。
Companies selling drones, another focal point in the Chinese arms industry, are ubiquitous at arms and aviation shows. At an aviation exposition in Beijing in late September, one Chinese company, China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation, had on display a model of a CH-4 reconnaissance and combat drone, with four models of missiles next to it.
中国军工业的另一关注点是无人机。各大武器展和航空展上，随处可见销售无人机的中国企业。在9月底的北京航展上，中国航天科技集团公司展示了一款“彩虹–4”(CH–4)无人侦察与攻击机，一旁还陈列了4种型号的导弹。
Though the drone had been “designed for export,” one company representative said, there were no foreign buyers yet. The company was still being licensed by the government to sell the aircraft abroad. He added that the drone was not yet up to par with some foreign models, and that the engine was a foreign make, though other parts — including the missiles — had been developed in China.
尽管该集团的一位代表称这款无人机“为出口而设计”，不过尚未出现外国买家，集团仍在获取出口该款机型的政府许可的过程中。这名代表称，“彩虹–4”还比不上一些外国机型，而且发动机并非产自中国，不过包括导弹在内的其他部件均为中国研发。
The Aviation Industry Corporation of China, or AVIC, had on display a model of a Wing Loong, the best-known Chinese drone export, which sells for about $1 million, less than similar American and Israeli drone models. An article in People’s Daily said the export certificate for the Wing Loong, or Pterodactyl, was approved in June 2009, and it was first exported in 2011.
中国航空工业集团公司（简称中航）则展示了一款“翼龙”无人机。这是中国最为知名的外销无人机，售价约为100万美元，低于美国和以色列的同类无人机型。《人民日报》的一篇报道称，“翼龙”于2009年6月获得出口许可，并在2011年首次出口。
At the Paris Air Show in June, Ma Zhiping, president of the China National Aero-Technology Import and Export Corporation, told Global Times, another state-run newspaper, that “quite a few countries” had bought the Wing Loong, which resembles the American-made Predator. Clients were in Africa and Asia, he said.
在今年6月的巴黎航展上，中航技进出口有限责任公司的总裁马志平接受官媒环球网采访时称，“翼龙”已销往“好几个国家”，客户来自非洲和亚洲。这款无人机与美国制造的“捕食者”(Predator)相似。
Two fighter jets made by Chinese companies are being closely watched by industry analysts and foreign companies for their export potential. One is Shenyang Aircraft’s J-31, a fighter jet that Chinese officials say has stealth abilities. A People’s Daily report last month said that the J-31 was being made by Shenyang, an AVIC subsidiary, mostly for export, citing an interview with Zhang Zhaozhong, a rear admiral in the Chinese Navy. In March, the airplane’s chief designer, Sun Cong, told People’s Daily that the J-31 could become China’s main next-generation carrier-borne fighter jet.
中国企业生产的两款喷气式战斗机的出口潜力，也受到了行业分析人士及外国企业的密切关注。其中一款是沈飞公司的“歼–31”(J–31)。中国官员表示，这是一款具有隐形能力的战斗机。人民网上个月的报道援引海军少将张召忠接受采访时的说法称，“歼–31”由中航旗下的沈飞研制，主要用于外销。今年3月，这款机型的总设计师孙聪曾向人民网透露，希望“歼–31”的改进版能成为中国下一代舰载机。
The other jet is the JF-17, a less-sophisticated aircraft that an American official said had been in the works for about two decades in an “on-again, off-again” project. The jet was ostensibly the product of a joint venture between Pakistan Aeronautical Complex and China’s Chengdu Aircraft Industry Corporation, also an AVIC subsidiary, but China did the real work, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the secrecy surrounding military projects. So far, Pakistan is the only client, and the official said he believed that the Pakistanis had made a “political decision” to buy it.
另一款受到关注的则是技术水平低于前者的“枭龙”(JF–17)。一名美国官员表示，相关项目“走走停停”持续了大约20年，一直处于进行阶段。表面看来，“枭龙”是巴基斯坦航空综合体(Pakistan Aeronautical Complex)和中航旗下的成飞（集团）公司的合资企业的产品，不过该美国官员称，开展实质工作的是中国。由于军事项目的保密性，这名官员要求不具名。迄今为止，巴基斯坦是唯一的客户。该官员表示，他认为巴基斯坦购买“枭龙”是做出了一个“政治决定”。
China is Pakistan’s biggest ally, and each relies on the other to help counter India. Besides the JF-17, the two nations have had official joint production agreements on a frigate, a battle tank and a small aircraft.
中国是巴基斯坦最大的盟友，两国均依赖对方来协助制衡印度。除了“枭龙”，双方还签署了正式协议来合作生产一款护卫舰、一款主战坦克和一款小型飞机。
A defense official from Japan, a territorial rival of China that monitors its arms trade closely, said Chinese jets still had big shortcomings that could hurt international sales; most notably, China cannot make reliable engines or avionics, he said. The JF-17 uses a Russian engine.
日本与中国有领土争端，密切关注着中国的军火贸易。该国的一名防务官员表示，中国的喷气式战机仍存在可能不利于外销的重大缺陷；最醒目的一点是，中国没有能力制造出可靠的发动机和航空电子系统。“枭龙”采用的是一款俄制发动机。
“I believe they can make a few very good engines in the laboratory, but they can’t make it in the factory, kind of mass produce it in factories, because of lack of quality control and maybe experience,” he said.
他说，“我想，他们可以在实验室里造出几款非常好的发动机，但是不能在工厂造出来，也就是无法在工厂里大规模生产，原因在于缺乏质量控制，大概也缺乏经验。”
He added that Chinese engineers had been trying to develop an engine, the WS-10, a copy of a Russian model, but had been having problems.
他还说，中国工程师一直在努力开发“涡扇–10”(WS–10)发动机，但总会出现问题。这个型号模仿了一款俄制发动机。
It is not uncommon for customers to overcome weaknesses in Chinese manufacturing by buying Chinese platforms and outfitting them with better Western equipment. Algeria placed an order last year for three Chinese corvettes, but is outfitting the ships with radar and communications equipment from Thales Nederland, a unit of the Thales Group, based in France. Thailand has been awarding contracts to the Saab Group, based in Sweden, to upgrade Chinese-built frigates, said Ben Moores, a senior analyst at IHS Jane’s.
有一种并不罕见的情况是，客户购买中国的平台后再配上更好的西方装备，以此来克服中国制造的短处。阿尔及利亚去年订购了三艘中国小型护卫舰，不过正在往舰上装备法国泰勒斯集团(Thales Group)下属的泰勒斯荷兰公司(Thales Nederland)出产的雷达和通讯设备。简氏信息集团的高级分析师本·穆尔斯(Ben Moores)称，泰国与瑞典萨博集团(Saab Group)签署了合同，以升级中国建造的护卫舰。
This year, a Chinese company was competing against foreign counterparts, including at least one American company, for a $1 billion Thai contract for naval frigates, but lost to Daewoo of South Korea.
今年，一家中国企业参与了一单10亿美元的泰国海军护卫舰合同的竞争，其外国竞争对手中包括至少一家美国企业，不过中标的是韩国的大宇集团(Daewoo)。
As China moves to catch up with established Western rivals, competing not only on price but also with comparable technology, Hakan Buskhe, chief executive of Saab, said his company and others would be likely to find themselves under pressure to cut their own research and development costs to lower pricing — a trend that could benefit North American and European governments looking to squeeze more ability out of shrinking defense budgets.
中国正在努力追赶老牌西方对手，不仅靠价格来竞争，还靠相近的技术。萨博的首席执行官哈坎·布斯克(Hakan Buskhe)称，在这种情况下，萨博等公司将很可能发现，它们面临着削减研发成本来降低售价的压力。这一趋势或许有利于一些北美和欧洲国家的政府，因为它们正在寻求靠缩水的国防预算，支撑起更强的国防实力。
“We need to be able to develop more for less,” he said.
他说，“我们必须得花更少的钱研发出更多的东西。”