When the United States Open began, Peng Shuai said she did not relish being the highest-ranked Chinese player in the tournament, preferring it when Li Na is around, absorbing most of the pressure and attention from the Chinese fans who have become quite a cheering section in Flushing Meadows in recent years.
美国网球公开赛(United States Open)开赛时，彭帅说她并不享受自己是本届赛事中排名最靠前的中国选手这一点。她更希望李娜能在现场，吸引来自中国球迷的大部分压力和关注。近年来，中国球迷经常现身法拉盛草地公园，为球员呐喊助威。
But with the third-ranked Li missing the tournament with a knee injury, Peng has leapt into the spotlight and soared through the draw, ousting the Swiss teenager Belinda Bencic in the quarterfinals Tuesday, 6-2, 6-1.
由于世界排名第三的李娜因膝伤退出本届美网，彭帅进入了公众的视野，并在比赛中势如破竹。在周二的四分之一决赛中，她以6-2，6-1的成绩将瑞士小将贝琳达·本西奇(Belinda Bencic)横扫出局。
At 28, Peng is enjoying a rather late coming-out party. The U.S. Open is her 37th Grand Slam tournament and she was playing in her first singles quarterfinal. Now, she will give her ranking (39th) and her newly devoted fans a boost by playing in her first semifinal, against the winner of Tuesday night’s match between 10th-seeded Caroline Wozniacki and 13th-seeded Sara Errani in the semifinals Friday.
28岁的彭帅正享受着一场姗姗来迟的亮相派对。本届美网是她第37次参加大满贯赛事，也是她首次进入单打四分之一决赛。现在，她将首次进入半决赛，在周五对阵周二傍晚10号种子卡洛琳·沃兹尼亚奇(Caroline Wozniacki)和13号种子萨拉·埃拉尼(Sara Errani)之间的胜出者。这将让她的排名（第39位）上升，并让新近成为她的忠实粉丝的球迷兴奋不已。
Peng has enjoyed plenty of success as a doubles player, winning two Grand Slam titles with Hsieh Su-Wei, but her singles career has taken awhile to come together.
彭帅作为双打选手取得了很多胜利。她曾与谢淑薇(Hsieh Su-Wei)合作，两度夺得大满贯冠军。
“It’s an amazing time for me,” Peng said after her match, apologizing as she choked back tears. “It’s a long time to play, a long time in my career. So many times I thought to give up, to stop playing. But my coach and my parents tell me to keep fighting, to keep playing and never give up, that this day would come.” Peng has been dominant in her matches here. She did not lose her serve against Bencic and has won 36 straight service games, stretching back to her second-round victory over Agnieszka Radwanska. She faced only two break points Tuesday, and had a mere 7 unforced errors to 17 winners.
“对我来说，这段时间相当不可思议，”彭帅赛后哽咽着说，并为自己的激动情绪道歉。“我打比赛很长时间了，我开始职业生涯很久了。我很多次想要放弃，不再打球。但我的教练和父母说，我要继续奋斗，继续打球，永远不要放弃，那一天就会到来。”在这场比赛中，彭帅一直占据着主导地位。在对阵本西奇时，她没有丢掉一个发球局。因此，自第二轮取得对阵阿格涅什卡·拉德万斯卡(Agnieszka Radwanska)的胜利以来，她已连赢36个发球局。在周二的比赛中，她只遇到过两个破发点，出现了7个非受迫性失误，取得17记制胜球。
“From the beginning year, I was doing lot of fitness and also like I keep practice, try to improve my game,” Peng said. “Maybe this time I find a way or I catch like right time. And then just try to do what I can do on the court, and then, maybe before in the match I was like tight or nervous, afraid to play, but this time, for this moment, I feel myself was quite O.K.”
“从今年开年以来，我进行了很多训练，一直练习，尝试提升我的比赛表现，”彭帅说。“或许这一次我找到了正确的方法，或者是赶上了好的时机。于是，在场上时我只是尽自己所能。可能之前比赛时我会紧张，害怕比赛，但这一次，此时此刻，我自己觉得状态相当好。”
Peng has come back from far more than a just a slow start to her singles career. When she was 12, she had surgery to correct a congenital heart defect. After recovering, though, her doctors told her she could return to tennis.
强势回归之前，彭帅的单打生涯不仅仅是开始得不太顺利。12岁时，她接受了治疗先天性心脏病的手术。不过康复后，医生告诉她，她可以重回网球赛场。
With this victory, she whisked Bencic out of the Cinderella role she had been settling into as she swept through an upset-filled women’s draw. Bencic, 17, was recalling memories of the last Swiss woman to tear around these courts as a teenager, Martina Hingis, not only because they share a home country but also because they share a coach: Hingis’s mother, Melanie Molitor.
女单比赛中，频现爆冷出局场面。本西奇一路过关，成了灰姑娘一样的角色。但彭帅的胜利让她的脚步就此中止。17岁的本西奇让人们想起了上一位在这块场地上拼搏的年轻瑞士女将玛蒂娜·辛吉斯(Martina Hingis)。这不仅是因为她们来自同一个国家，还因为她们师从同一名教练，也就是辛吉斯的母亲梅兰妮·莫尼特(Melanie Molitor)。
But since the days when Hingis won the U.S. Open as a 16-year-old in 1997, women’s tennis has become more of a power game, a pattern that foretold Peng’s domination of Bencic.
但自从16岁的辛吉斯赢得1997年的美网冠军以来，女子网球变得更多像是一种力量间的比拼，这种模式预言了彭帅在对阵本西奇时的强势。
Peng used every bit of her strength advantage, pounding winners down the line and giving Bencic no opportunities to swing the match to her advantage. Improving her strength is a way Peng said she has made strides as a singles player. She also has an unusual playing style, hitting two-handed off both her forehand and backhand.
彭帅充分利用了自己的力量优势，不断轰出底线附近的制胜球，让本西奇无力回天。彭帅表示，加强力量是自己在单打方面取得进步的一大原因。她的打法也颇为独特，正手和反手都采用双手握拍的方式。
“I think she has a dangerous game with both hands and the ball is really coming different from her racket,” Bencic said. “I had a little bit troubles with this today. Also angles are great. She’s a great doubles player, as well. It’s good for her.” In another twist, Peng’s breakthrough in singles comes just as her doubles partnership with Hsieh is ending. Despite their success, they came into this tournament saying it was their last Grand Slam event together, though they declined to say why they were breaking up.
“我想，她双正双反的打法很危险，从她的拍子上打出的球真的很不一样，”本西奇说。“我今天对付这个不太顺利。她打的角度也很好。她还是出色的双打选手。对她很有帮助。”微妙的是，彭帅在单打上取得突破之时，她与谢淑薇的双打合作也走到了尽头。尽管二人成绩斐然，但她们在本届美网上表示，这是最后一次搭档参加大满贯赛事。二人拒绝透露分手的具体原因。
Peng and Hsieh have been playing together since 2009 and reached the No. 2 ranking as a team, but they lost here in the fourth round to Kimiko Date-Krumm and Barbora Zahlavova Strycova on Monday.
彭帅和谢淑薇自2009年开始搭档双打，携手达到过女双世界排名第一。不过，在本次美网中，两人周一不敌伊达公子(Kimiko Date-Krumm)和巴尔博拉·扎拉洛娃·斯特里科娃(Barbora Zahlavova Strycova)组合，没能突破第三轮。
Still going in the doubles draw is Hingis, who is playing with Flavia Pennetta of Italy. Together, they reached the semifinals with a victory over Kveta Peschke of the Czech Republic and Katarina Srebotnik of Slovenia, 6-4, 6-3.
仍在女双签表中的包括辛吉斯，和她搭档的是意大利人弗拉维娅·佩内塔(Flavia Pennetta)。在四分之一决赛中，二人以6比4、6比3的比分战胜了捷克的克韦塔·佩斯切克(Kveta Peschke)和斯洛文尼亚的卡塔琳娜·斯莱伯尼克(Katarina Srebotnik)。
Since returning to tennis as a doubles specialist last year, Hingis, 33, had not advanced out of the first round in two other Grand Slam appearances, at last year’s U.S. Open and at Wimbledon.
自从去年重返双打赛场后，如今33岁的辛吉斯在之前参加的两项大满贯赛事中——去年的美网和今年的温网——均首轮落败。
“When I started playing again in the doubles, it was definitely something that I was hoping for,” said Hingis, who won the last of her 15 Grand Slam titles in 2006, in mixed doubles at the Australian Open. “Now, with Flavia, it’s becoming reality, and I’m just really enjoying the moment.”
“当我又开始参加双打比赛的时候，肯定是希望能打成这样，”辛吉斯说。她上一次赢得大满贯冠军是在2006年的澳网混双赛场上，那是她的第15个大满贯头衔。“现在，和弗拉维娅一起，这正在成为现实。我真的很享受当下。”
The women’s doubles draw got another jolt in the quarterfinals Tuesday when Venus and Serena Williams lost, 7-6 (5), 6-4, to Ekaterina Makarova and Elena Vesnina of Russia. The ending came in particularly stunning fashion when Serena Williams double-faulted on match point, sending their opponents into a giddy celebration on the court.
周二的时候，女双比赛还爆出了另一冷门。在四分之一决赛中，威廉姆斯姐妹以6(5)比7、4比6输给了俄罗斯组合依卡塔莲娜·马卡洛娃(Ekaterina Makarova)和爱莲娜·维斯尼娜(Elena Vesnina)。这场比赛的尾声尤其令人震惊，塞雷娜·威廉姆斯(Serena Williams)在赛点上双发失误，让对面的两位姑娘欣喜若狂。
Serena Williams has played seven matches in past six days in reaching the quarterfinals in singles and doubles. Makarova and Pennetta are still alive in singles and doubles.
在过去的六天时间里，塞雷娜·威廉姆斯打了七场比赛，在单双打中均晋级四分之一决赛。而马卡洛娃和佩内塔仍然保有双线作战的可能性。
“For me, singles and doubles is really important, and I give them the same 100 percent all the time,” said Pennetta, who will play Williams in singles on Wednesday night.
“对我来说，单双打都很重要，我总是同样使出100%的力气，”佩内塔说。她将在周三晚间的单打比赛中与威廉姆斯碰面。