WASHINGTON — Last month, their faces beaming with self-congratulatory enthusiasm, President Obama and China’s president, Xi Jinping, announced an agreement to drop tariffs on a range of high-technology products, an accord that was supposed to propel far more significant trade talks in the weeks to come.
华盛顿——上个月，带着沾沾自喜的激动神色，美国总统奥巴马和中国国家主席习近平宣布就取消一系列高科技产品的关税达成共识。人们原以为，该协议将助力接下来数周里一些比这还要重要得多的贸易谈判。
On Friday in Geneva, those talks on technology trade collapsed in acrimony, a sign that China is still unwilling to open its markets to competition where it is most vulnerable.
周五在日内瓦，这些关于科技贸易的谈判在争吵中破裂，这预示着，中国仍然不愿在一些实力极为薄弱的市场放开竞争。
“We came to Geneva this week and worked hard to build a consensus around the bilateral agreement we concluded with China,” Michael W. Punke, deputy United States trade representative and the United States ambassador to the World Trade Organization, said in a statement. “Like everyone in the room, we are disappointed not to be celebrating a deal this week. We missed a big opportunity.”
“我们本周来到日内瓦并付出努力，就是为了在我们与中国达成的双边协议的基础上建立共识，”美国副贸易代表、美国驻世界贸易组织（World Trade Organization，简称WTO）大使迈克尔·W·庞克(Michael W. Punke)在一份声明中说。“和在场的每一个人一样，我们对本周无法庆祝达成一项协议感到失望。我们错失了一次重大机遇。”
The Geneva talks aimed to reduce global tariffs on $1 trillion in high-tech goods, be it small-bore consumer electronics like video game consoles or big-ticket items like magnetic resonance imaging machines and advanced semiconductors.
日内瓦谈判旨在降低针对价值1万亿美元（约合6.2万亿元人民币）的高科技产品的全球关税，无论它们是视频游戏机这样普通的消费电子产品，还是磁共振成像机以及高级半导体等昂贵商品。
Experts say a breakthrough could have saved as much as $15 billion a year in tariffs and generated hundreds of thousands of jobs across the globe. But the talks broke down in the middle of a face-off between China and South Korea over liquid-crystal display television screens, a market where China strongly wants to expand. After difficult negotiations, South Korea was willing to lower tariffs on LCDs. But the Korean delegation wanted China to offer at least a face-saving concession, most likely in advanced lithium batteries, a product in which China already has a billion-dollar trade surplus, according to an American official with knowledge of the talks. China rebuffed appeals from American and Korean negotiators, even from the head of the W.T.O.
专家称，如果取得突破，全球每年最多可取消150亿美元的关税，并创造数十万个就业岗位。但谈判在中国和韩国关于液晶电视屏幕的争吵中破裂。液晶显示屏是中国迫切希望扩大的市场。在艰难的谈判之后，韩国表示愿意降低液晶显示屏的关税。不过，韩国代表团希望中国做出至少能让自己保全面子的让步，最好是在高级锂电池市场。一名了解相关谈判的美国官员说，中国通过该产品已经获得10亿美元的贸易顺差。中国拒绝了美国和韩国谈判官员，甚至还有WTO负责人的请求。
“I think it says very profound things about China’s ability to negotiate,” the American official said. “The world’s most successful trader of information technology is incapable of having a negotiating conversation.”
“我认为这件事极大地说明了中国的谈判能力，”这名美国官员说。“这个世界上最成功的信息技术贸易国却无法进行一次谈判对话。”
For the Obama administration, the failure of the technology trade talks could bode ill for its broader trade agenda. Negotiators in Washington this week tried to work out the final bumps in the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a major trade accord that does not include China but does include many trade partners in Asia. The technology deal was supposed to be the lowest-hanging fruit on the international trade agenda.
对于奥巴马政府来说，科技贸易谈判的失败可能影响边境贸易议程。华盛顿的谈判官员本周试图解决跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）的最后障碍，这项重要贸易协定不包括中国，但却包括了许多亚洲贸易伙伴。这项科技协议本应是国际贸易议程中最触手可得的果实。
The White House also badly wants Congress to grant Mr. Obama “trade promotion authority,” the ability to fast-track trade deals without lawmakers altering them before giving the deals an up-or-down vote. If trading partners are showing inflexibility, lawmakers are less likely to give United States negotiators such a blank check.
白宫还迫切希望国会能够授予奥巴马“贸易促进授权”，即在不经议员修改的情况下将贸易协议直接付诸投票，从而加速通过协议的进程。如果贸易伙伴缺乏灵活性，议员们就不太可能给美国的谈判官员这样的自由处置权。
“There is no disguising that today was a major setback, but there is an emerging feeling that it’s not time to throw in the towel quite yet,” said John Neuffer, senior vice president for global policy at the Information Technology Industry Council, a high-tech trade group.
“毫无疑问，今天是一次重大的挫折，但我们觉得，还没到认输的时候，”高科技贸易组织美国信息技术产业协会(Information Technology Industry Council)的全球政策高级副总裁约翰·诺伊弗(John Neuffer)说。
In a statement on Friday, Roberto Azevêdo, the W.T.O.’s director general, said: “It has not been possible to finalize the negotiations this week. I urge members to remain actively and constructively engaged as we try to bridge the gaps in these negotiations.”
世贸组织总干事罗伯托·阿泽维多(Roberto Azevêdo)在周五的一份声明中称：“本周完成谈判是不太可能的。随着我们努力消除谈判中的分歧，我恳请大家依然有建设性地积极参与。”
Talks about updating the 1997 Information Technology Agreement to include new and more advanced products broke down last year after China objected to the scope of the products covered. Momentum for a new agreement was restored during Mr. Obama’s visit to Beijing in November, when the United States and China agreed to eliminate tariffs on more than 200 categories of products.
去年，因为中国反对涉及的产品范围，围绕更新1997年的信息技术协议(Information Technology Agreement)，以便纳入更先进的新产品而进行的谈判破裂。奥巴马今年11月访华期间，中美两国同意取消200多类产品的关税，签订一项新协议的势头再次出现。
But the Chinese have been unwilling to expand the list beyond the items agreed upon with the United States, angering other countries. Mr. Punke was careful to praise some partners, but China was conspicuously absent.
但中国一直不愿扩大相关名单，纳入除已与美国达成了一致以外的其他产品，此举激怒了其他国家。庞克谨慎地称赞了部分合作伙伴，但中国明显不在其列。
“In our disappointment at not reaching a deal, we should not fail to recognize those who made great efforts this week towards a deal. In particular, I would note the flexibility shown by Costa Rica, Malaysia, Israel, Guatemala and Korea,” he said in a statement.
“在对未能达成协议感到失望的同时，我们应该认可那些为达成协议而在本周做出了巨大努力的国家。我特别要指出的是哥斯达黎加、马来西亚、以色列、危地马拉和韩国所表现出的灵活性，”他在声明中说。
Though the United States still exports many high-technology goods, China is now the world’s dominant exporter of electronics and has much to gain from an elimination of tariffs, experts say. Even so, Chinese officials have argued in the state-run news media that Beijing needs to protect companies in important industries, like semiconductors and LCD displays, that are not as competitive internationally as many of China’s other products.
专家称，尽管美国依然出口许多高科技产品，但中国目前是全世界占主导地位的电子产品出口国，取消关税对其大有裨益。即便如此，中国官员在官方新闻媒体上辩称，中国需要保护半导体和液晶显示屏等重要行业的企业，因为在国际上，这些产品不像中国许多其他产品那么有竞争力。
The Obama administration estimates that expanding the agreement would create up to 60,000 jobs in the United States by eliminating tariffs on goods that generate $1 trillion in sales a year globally. The 78 participants in the agreement account for 97 percent of the world’s technology products, according to the W.T.O.
奥巴马政府预计，通过取消关税的方式扩大相关协议，会为美国创造多达6万个就业岗位，涉及的产品每年在全球会带来1万亿美元的销售收入。WTO称，该协议的78个缔约国生产的科技产品占全球的97%。
“We are all aware of the importance of these negotiations,” Angelos Pangratis, the European Union’s ambassador to the W.T.O., said in a statement before the trade deal collapsed on Friday. “We have in front of us the most far-reaching market access package made in the W.T.O. since 1996.”
“我们大家都明白这些谈判的重要性，”欧盟驻WTO大使安耶洛斯·庞格拉提斯(Angelos Pangratis)在贸易谈判周五破裂前发表声明说。“摆在我们面前的，是自1996年以来WTO制定的影响最深远的市场准入一揽子协议。”
Some analysts view the setback as a reflection on the organization itself, which has often been unable to seal trade agreements.
一些分析人士认为，谈判受挫反映出了常常无力达成贸易协议的该组织自身的问题。