As a rookie at the central bank in Beijing during the early days of China’s economic transformation, Joe Zhang considered it a foregone conclusion that the government would soon loosen its grip on interest rates.
在中国经济变革早期，时为央行新职员的张化桥(Joe Zhang)认为，可以预测，政府很快就会放松利率控制。
It was the mid-1980s, and Chinese policy makers had been keeping a close watch on the United States, which was phasing out the mandatory caps on bank deposit rates that had been in place since the Depression.
那是20世纪80年代中期，中国决策者正在密切关注美国的情况，后者正在逐步淘汰从大萧条时期开始实行的存款利率强制上限。
In China, Mr. Zhang said, “the discussion in the government was quite serious. It was about liberalizing all interest rates within four to five years.”
张化桥说，在当时的中国，“政府内部的讨论很严肃，说是要在四到五年之内放开一切利率。”
“The Path to Interest Rate Liberalization,” the thesis he wrote in 1986 at the People’s Bank of China graduate school, ‘‘did not stand out in any way, because that was an accepted topic," said Mr. Zhang, who is now an independent corporate adviser based in Hong Kong.
1986年，他在中国人民银行研究生院写了题为《利率自由化之路》的论文。他说，“那篇论文并没有任何特别之处，因为那是一个已被接受的话题。”他现在是香港的独立公司顾问。
Nearly three decades later, China still struggles with the issue of interest rates. The new prime minister, Li Keqiang, has made liberalizing rates a priority.
将近30年后，中国仍然纠结于利率问题。新总理李克强把放开利率作为了一件要务。
On Friday, the central bank scrapped the floor on lending rates, freeing banks to issue loans as cheaply as they wished, a modest development that pointed to the challenges ahead. The full liberalization of rates, if it does take place, would be a partial but significant shift in the growth model that has come to define China’s rise in the last decade.
周五，央行放开了借贷利率下限，允许银行按自身能够接受的低利率发放贷款。这一小步发展指向了将来的挑战。全面放开利率如果真的成为了事实，将会是对中国过去10年崛起所依赖的增长模式的一个非常重要的局部改变。
Analysts said eliminating the floor on lending rates (mortgage loans remain regulated) was a sign that Beijing was moving forward with promised overhauls. But the practical effect on lending would be minimal, given that almost 90 percent of loans in China are made at or above the benchmark rate.
分析人士称，消除借贷利率下限（按揭贷款仍然受控）是一个信号，预示北京正在推动其承诺的改革。但是，这对借贷的实际影响会很小，因为中国近90%贷款的利率是等于或者高于基准利率的。
Policy makers stopped short of removing the ceiling on deposit rates, which analysts say would have much broader repercussions for the profitability of the country’s giant banking industry and for the continued access of politically influential state-owned enterprises to low-cost financing.
政策制定者并没有放开存款利率上限。分析人士称，如果放开存款利率上限，将会产生范围大得多的影响，影响到中国巨大的银行业的盈利能力，以及政治上举足轻重的国有企业继续获得低成本融资的前景。
“Removing lending rate restrictions is an important symbolic move, which signals the government’s intention to move forward with interest rate liberalization," Wang Tao, an economist at UBS in Hong Kong, wrote in a research note. ‘‘The next and more important step is, of course, the ceiling on deposit rates. The central bank considers the removal of the deposit ceiling as the most critical yet most risky move in interest rate liberalization.”
瑞银(UBS)驻香港的经济师汪涛在一份研究报告中写道，“放开借贷利率限制是一个重要的标志性举动，显示了政府意在推进利率自由化。当然，下一步也是更重要的一步应该是消除存款利率上限。央行认为，在利率自由化过程当中，消除存款利率上限是最关键却又最危险的一步。”
Because China’s capital account is still largely closed and the cross-border movement of money remains tightly regulated, China’s savers have limited options for managing their personal finances. As a result, household deposits tucked away in banks have doubled during the last five years, and stood at 42.9 trillion renminbi, or about $7 trillion, as of May.
中国的资本账户仍然在很大程度上处于关闭状态，跨境资金移动也仍然处于严格管控之下，这样一来，中国储蓄者个人理财的选择有限。因此，各银行的家庭存款额在过去五年翻了一倍，于今年五月达到了42.9万亿人民币，约合7万亿美元。
That trove — equal to 83 percent of gross domestic product last year — has been a low-cost source of financing for state-run banks, which they have tapped to issue loans, mainly to state-owned companies. At the current one-year benchmark rates set by Beijing, banks pay ordinary depositors a maximum of 3 percent annual interest on their savings, and — before the announcement Friday — were required to charge borrowers a minimum rate of 6 percent interest on loans. (Banks are allowed to offer a small premium on deposits, and before the floor was scrapped had also been permitted to give a discount on loan rates.)
这些存款相当于去年国内生产总值的83%，是国有银行融资的低成本来源。国有银行利用这些存款发放贷款，主要对象是国有企业。在北京制定的现有的一年期基准利率之下，银行给一般存款人的存款年利率最多只有3%，而且，在周五的公告之前，被要求向借贷人收取至少6%的借贷利率。（根据规定，银行可以小幅上调存款利率，在放开借贷利率之前也可以为借贷利率打折。）
Analysts said the tensions over interest rate overhauls highlighted a crucial aspect of China’s growth: The increased use of low-cost and abundant credit has bolstered state companies and fueled an unprecedented surge of investment, all made possible only by effectively holding ordinary Chinese savers hostage to low or even negative returns.
分析师表示，利率改革引发的紧张突显了中国增长的一个重要方面：大量廉价信贷的更多使用支撑了国有企业，并且引发了投资的空前飙升，实现这些的惟一手段是利用低利率甚至负利率绑架了中国普通储户。
Measures to shift that balance in favor of ordinary savers — like doing away with the control of interest rates — are consistent with Mr. Li’s stated goal of getting China to switch from reliance on investment to a more consumer-driven growth model. But accomplishing this would require Mr. Li to take on powerful vested interests at the state-owned companies that dominate huge swaths of China’s economy.
把天平变得有利于普通储户的改革措施，例如去除对利率的控制，符合李克强的申明目标，即把中国的增长模式从依赖投资转变为更依靠消费者驱动。但是，要实现这一点，李克强必须顶住来自国企既得利益团体的压力，这些国企控制着中国经济的很大部分。
Liberalizing interest rates is not just a matter of making the financial system more efficient, it represents ‘‘a path toward greater social justice," Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington who has been studying the Chinese economy since the 1970s, wrote in a March essay published in the China Economic Quarterly.
实现利率的自由化不仅是一个令金融系统更有效率的问题，还代表着“一条通向更大社会公平的道路”，华盛顿彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)高级研究员尼古拉斯·拉迪(Nicholas Lardy)在3月份《中国经济季刊》(China Economic Quarterly)的一篇文章力写道。自20世纪70年代以来，拉迪一直在研究中国经济。
To emphasize his point, Mr. Lardy highlights how real average interest rates, or household deposit rates as adjusted for consumer price inflation, were negative for the decade that the President Hu Jintao and former Prime Minister Wen Jiabao were in power. In other words, Chinese savers effectively paid the banks to store their money, and the value of their wealth was eroded.
为了强调自己的观点，拉迪着重指出，真实平均利率，即依据消费者价格通胀做过调整的家庭存款利率，在国家主席胡锦涛和温家宝总理掌权的10年里曾是负的。换句话说，中国储户进行储蓄的时候实际上是在倒贴银行，他们财富的价值也受到了侵蚀。
That situation needs to be reversed if China is to rely more on consumer demand for its growth, and the new leadership under President Xi Jinping and Mr. Li, who took office in March, appears to recognize the need to push through changes despite the opposition they are likely to encounter, Mr. Lardy said.
拉迪说，如果中国想要更多地依赖消费者需求来推动增长，这种情况就必须扭转，与此同时，以今年三月上任的国家主席习近平和李克强为首的中国领导层似乎认识到了必须推动改变，尽管他们几乎肯定会遇到阻力。
‘'Even the vested interests understand that the legitimacy of the party and its continued rule depend on delivering reasonably rapid economic growth. Ultimately they are likely to cede some of the outsized benefits they have gained from the current growth model, rather than block reform and risk losing all.”
“就连那些既得利益集团也懂得，党及其持续统治的合法性有赖于提供合理迅速的经济增长。到最后，它们可能会放弃一些从当前增长模式中获得的超额利益，而不是冒着失去一切的风险去阻挠改革。”
Mr. Zhang, the junior central banker, left the People’s Bank of China in 1989 after a three-year stint to study economics overseas.
在海外进行了3年经济学学习之后，时为初级银行职员的张化桥于1989年离开了中国人民银行。
After a long career as an investment banker in Hong Kong, he ended up working from 2011 to 2012 as a “shadow banker” in the southern city Guangzhou, making small loans to mom-and-pop borrowers. The loans were later repackaged as interest-bearing securities, or so-called wealth management products, and sold to investors who were in search of better interest rates than they were getting on their bank deposits.
他在香港当了很长时间的投资银行家，最终在2011年到2012年间到中国南部城市广州工作，成为了一名“影子银行家”，为夫妻小店的借贷人提供小额贷款。这些贷款随后被重新包装成有价证券，即所谓理财产品，并被出售给那些寻求比银行存款更高利率的投资者。
Mr. Zhang remains hopeful that China will free up interest rates. And current policy makers have a deep understanding of the issue. Back in the ‘80s, one of the people who sat in a cubicle near Mr. Zhang’s, in separate department that handled interest rates, was Shang Fulin. Today, Mr. Shang is the chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission.
张化桥仍然对中国放松利率抱有希望。此外，当前的决策者也对这个问题有着深刻的理解。早在20世纪80年代，张化桥旁边的一个隔间里坐的是尚福林，那时他在一个处理利率的部门工作。如今，尚福林已是中国银监会主席。