They first arrived in January: caravans of black Escalades driving along a small street in Jamaica Estates, an upscale neighborhood in Queens, and stopping in front of a modest Tudor-style house where President Trump lived as a boy with his family until he was 4. Out stepped a stream of Chinese people in business suits, according a neighbor.
他们最初是在1月抵达的：在皇后区高档社区牙买加庄园(Jamaica Estates)，几辆黑色的凯雷德(Escalade)汽车沿着一条小街行驶，抵达特朗普总统4岁前的故居，在一栋不起眼的都铎式建筑前停下。据一位邻居表示，一个个穿着西装的中国人下了车。
The neighbor, who did not want to be identified because of concerns about her privacy, said the visitors began arriving sometime between when the home appeared on an auction website in January and when the sale closed last week.
为了保护自己的隐私，这位邻居不愿具名。她说，当这处住宅1月份出现在拍卖网站上之后，访客就开始纷至沓来，直到上周房子卖出去。
“Why all this overseas interest?” she said she recalled wondering. “What do they want?”
"为什么它引起了这么多外国人的兴趣？"她说自己当时很好奇。“他们想要做什么？"
The identity of the person behind Trump Birth House, the limited liability company that bought the home, is not known. But a person with direct knowledge of the deal said the buyer was a woman from China. A secretary for Michael X. Tang, the lawyer who represented Trump Birth House in the transaction, said on Tuesday that he was not available for comment.
购买特朗普出生故居的是家有限责任公司，真正的买家现在尚不清楚。但这笔交易的知情人说，买主是一名中国女子。在交易中代表这栋物业的律师是迈克尔·X·唐(Michael X. Tang)，他的秘书周二表示，他现在无法评论。
The house has become a curiosity in the vast orbit of properties connected to Mr. Trump, even though he hasn’t lived there in many decades. On Tuesday, purple and white crocuses were popping up in the yard. And the house appeared to have been emptied.
在和特朗普有关的庞大物业中，这栋房子激发起了人们的好奇心，即使特朗普已经好几十年没有在那里居住过了。周二，紫色和白色的番红花在院子里盛开。房子似乎已清空。
Cathy Han, a real estate agent in New York who specializes in marketing high-end properties to Chinese buyers — including apartments in Trump-owned buildings — said she was not surprised that the home had been purchased by a Chinese buyer.
凯茜·韩(Cathy Han)是纽约的一名房地产经纪人，专门向中国买家营销高端物业——包括特朗普旗下的公寓——她说对于购买那栋房子的是中国人，自己并不感到惊讶。
“When I saw it was Trump’s birth house property for sale, I knew immediately it would get a lot of attention from Chinese buyers,” Ms. Han said. “I know he is a controversial figure in the States, but among Chinese people, Trump is a very popular kind of character in China.”
“在听说特朗普的出生故居出售时，我就立刻意识到会引起很多中国买家的关注，”韩说。“我知道他在美国是有争议的人物，但在中国人中，特朗普是一个非常受欢迎的人物类型。”
She said she thought the image that Mr. Trump liked to promote of himself as a successful businessman resonated in China.
她说，她认为特朗普喜欢宣传自己是一个成功的商人，这种形象在中国产生了共鸣。
“The whole thing about Trump is he has no experience in politics, but now he is the president of the U.S.A.,” Ms. Han said. “The story is like a movie: It’s kind of inspiring, in a way, that a person can rise up to that position. And I think most Chinese people kind of respect that journey.”
“关键是特朗普在政治上没有经验，但现在他却成了美国总统，”韩说。“这个故事就像一部电影︰从某种程度上说，它很励志，讲一个人可以飞黄腾达，成了总统。我想大多数中国人相当尊重这个过程。”