SHANGHAI — China’s local government debt has reached an “alarming level” and poses a significant risk to the country’s fast-growing economy, according to a Chinese government think tank.
上海——中国政府的一个智库称，中国地方政府的债务已经到了“各方应当对其保持警惕的程度”，对中国快速增长的经济构成了巨大的风险。
Two years after analysts began raising concerns about municipal borrowing, Chinese local governments appear to have piled up even more debt, about $3.3 trillion by the end of 2012, perhaps double the level in 2010.
分析人士从两年前开始担心地方借贷，到现在，中国地方政府却似乎累积了更多债务。2012年年底，中国地方政府的债务约为3.3万亿美元（约合20万亿元人民币），或许是2010年债务水平的两倍。
The report, released this week by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, is the latest indication that China may be investing too aggressively in property and infrastructure projects, potentially setting the stage for a wave of loan defaults and a severe economic downturn.
中国社会科学院本周发布的报告是最新的迹象，表明中国在房地产和基础设施领域投资过急，可能为贷款违约浪潮和严重的经济低迷留下了隐患。
While many economists expect China’s economy to grow 7 percent in 2014, there are mounting concerns about the sustainability of the country’s economic engine.
尽管许多经济学家预计2014年中国经济的增幅会达到7%，但人们越来越担心中国的经济引擎的可持续性。
In Beijing, the authorities are pushing to restructure the economy to make it more market oriented, in the hopes of tackling inefficiencies and potentially huge hidden liabilities.
在北京，当局正在推动经济结构调整，使其进一步以市场为导向，希望以此解决低效问题，以及可能会很严重的隐藏债务问题。
In recent years, China’s growth has been fueled by heavy investment in infrastructure, everything from new highways and railways to ports, subways and shopping malls.
近年来，基础设施领域的大量投资带动了中国的增长。投资项目从新建公路、铁路到机场、地铁和购物中心，无所不包。
Growth weakened at the outset of the global financial crisis. But in 2009, Beijing backed a huge economic stimulus program that accelerated growth and pushed up property prices.
全球性金融危机爆发时，中国的经济增速开始放缓。但是2009年，中国政府为一项大规模经济刺激项目提供了支持，由此加速经济增长，抬高了房价。
Now, analysts say the investment binge may have been excessive.
目前，分析人士称，这次投资浪潮的力度或许过了头。
“What bothers me is not the current level of debt but the pace of the increase,” says Shen Minggao, a Hong Kong based economist at Citigroup Global Markets. “But if the pace of growth is slowed or capped, that will have a direct impact on infrastructure growth.”
“让我感到担心的不是目前的债务水平，而是债务的增长速度，”驻香港的花旗集团全球市场(Citigroup Global Markets)经济学家沈明高说。“我还担心，如果经济增速放缓或受阻，基础设施的增长就会受到直接影响。”
Infrastructure spending, Mr Shen says, has been one of the crucial pillars of China’s growth engine over the last decade. If investment slows, it could be difficult and painful.
沈明高说，过去10年，基础设施投入一直是中国经济增长引擎的一个重要支柱。如果投资减少，就会带来麻烦和痛苦。
Earlier this year, the authorities in Beijing indicated that managing the risks of local government debt would be a high priority in the coming years. Some officials proposed Holding local authorities more accountable for excessive debt build up; other bureaucrats hinted the central government may be forced to step in and help bail out some localities.
今年早些时候，北京官方表示，管理地方政府的债务风险将是未来几年工作的重中之重。一些官员提出，要让地方官员对过度债务累积承担更多的责任；其他官员则表示，中央政府或许会被迫进行干涉，帮助一些地方政府走出困境。
One of the unknowns is how much debt exists. There have been a wide range of figures tallied, though all of them suggest trillions of dollars of debt just on the part of local governments.
未知因素之一是债务量到底有多少。现在有许多版本的估算数字，然而，所有版本的数字都显示，地方政府累积了高达数万亿美元的债务。
Analysts say much of the debt is masked by “shadow banking” activities. Such activities allow large amounts of lending to take place off the books, through trust companies and so-called local government financing vehicles.
分析人士称，大多数债务都隐藏在“影子银行”活动当中。此类活动通过信托公司和所谓的地方政府融资平台实施，使得地方政府可以进行大量账外借贷。