Next week, millions of fifth graders across China will struggle with their end-of-year examinations. And, with just one year of elementary education left, their parents will struggle with choosing a high school for them.
下周，全中国数百万的五年级学生将为期末考试而奋斗。而在小学教育只剩一年的情况下，他们的家长将为选择一所中学而伤透脑筋。
For many cosmopolitan Chinese parents, the agonized deliberations look like this: How Chinese should our child’s education be? How Western? Is there a middle ground?
对中国大城市的许多家长而言，要进行如下痛苦的思考：我们孩子的教育应当中式到何种程度？又西式到何种程度？有没有折衷的办法呢？
“I have a friend who couldn’t sleep at night because of this. She nearly went mad,” said Ms. Ma, the mother of a fifth grader at the state-run Fangcaodi Elementary School in Beijing, which my son also attends. “Don’t become like that!” she advised me.
马女士的孩子在公立的芳草地小学上五年级，和我的儿子同校。她说：“我有个朋友，因为这件事晚上睡不着觉。她都快疯了”。她建议我：“别搞成那样！”
Ms. Ma is perplexed by the challenge of choosing a high school for her 11-year-old. “I’m really worried about his future studies,” she said. She took her son to the United States in May to tour schools, but that didn’t produce a decision.
给11岁的孩子选择中学的挑战把马女士给难住了。“我真的很担心他将来的学习，”她说。今年5月，她把儿子带去美国找学校，不过未能做出决定。
“He feels American, but his friends are here. He wants to stay here. I feel that China’s basic education is very good, but, for later, I want him to have the space to explore and create, not just learn from books,” said Ms. Ma, who only offered her surname.
只愿透露姓氏的马女士说：“他更认同美国，不过朋友都在这边，他想留下来。我感觉中国的基础教育很不错，不过，再往后，我希望他能拥有探索和创造的空间，而不是只学课本。”
Then there’s the values issue, which is inclining her toward the United States.
而且还存在价值观问题，这让她倾向于去美国。
“I think traditional Chinese values and morals are very good,” she said. “But they don’t exist anymore. And he has to learn how to be an upright person.”
“我觉得中国传统价值观和道德观非常好，”她说，“不过这些现在都不见了。他得学会如何成为一个正直的人。”
Parents’ concerns here can be very intense, in part perhaps reflecting a “tiger mom” or “wolf dad” mentality. But they also speak to a deeply held cultural identity. As China grows in influence, many here believe their children will be a core part of the globalized future. And like parents everywhere, they want what’s best for them.
中国家长的忧虑情绪很严重，这部分反映了一种“虎妈”和“狼爸”思维。不过，这也涉及一种深层次的文化认同。随着中国的影响力上升，许多中国人认为，他们的子女会成为一个全球化未来的核心。而且，与世界各地的家长一样，他们也希望子女能得到最好的东西。
Some are leaning toward a more Chinese education, out of concern that the language is just too difficult. Miss these formative years and, you never catch up.
一些人倾向于更中式的教育，因为他们担心中文难度过大。一旦错过了成长关键期，就再也赶不上了。
“I think it’s difficult to have a truly bilingual education,” said Qiu Dong, the mother of another fifth grader. “I think you have to pick a language.”
邱东也是五年级孩子的妈妈，她说：“我觉得很难享有真正的双语教育。我想，必须选一种语言。”
After years in the United States, she and her family are back in China. She tried an international school, a bilingual school and, now, a Chinese one for her two sons, and thinks the Chinese route works best. In order to ensure her children’s future here, if that’s what they want one day.
在美国生活多年后，她和家人回到了中国。她让两个儿子尝试过一所国际学校和一所双语学校，现在则在一所中文学校，她觉得中式的效果最好。这是为了确保孩子们在中国的未来，如果他们将来想在这里的话。
“If you want your kids to really learn the language, then elementary isn’t enough,” said Ms. Qiu, drawing on her own experiences as a child. She was 15 when she left for the United States with her 10-year-old sister. Today, “the difference is huge,” she said. Ms. Qiu is fluent in Chinese, including the written language. Her sister is not.
邱东说：“如果想要孩子真正地学会语言，小学是不够的。”她拿自己小时候的情况做例子。她15岁的时候和10岁的妹妹一起离开中国去到美国。现在，“区别巨大，”她说。邱东的中国话说得很流利，中文书写也很好。妹妹则不然。
“You need the classical Chinese, know how it works, the forms and the structure of the language,” she said. “You have to understand not just the language but the whole cultural context. You have to know how the system operates.”
“需要进行古文教育，了解其使用方式、语言的形式和结构，”她说，“你得不光理解语言，还要理解整个文化背景，得了解这个系统的运作方式。”
For her, the answer is another elite Chinese school. Like quite a few parents at Fangcaodi, she hopes her son, Oliver, passes highly competitive tests for the No. 4 High School, one of the best-regarded in the country.
对她而言，答案是再上一所中国名校。与芳草地小学的不少学生家长一样，她希望儿子奥利弗(Oliver)能通过竞争极其激烈的考试，进入北京四中。这所学校是中国最好的中学之一。
It’s all a balancing act of enormous, often clashing factors — culture, identity and money, said Zhang Qiao, the mother of Natalie, a half-German fifth grader.
五年级的中德混血儿纳塔莉(Natalie)的母亲张樵称，这完全是面对往往相互冲突的多种重要因素时的一种平衡之举，这些因素包括文化、身份认同和财力。
“The reality is that our children are living in two cultures,” said Ms. Zhang.
张樵说：“现实是，我们的孩子正生活在两种文化中。”
She has decided on the international stream of the state-run No. 80 High School. Chinese schools increasingly are offering international streams where students need a foreign passport to enter and where an International Baccalaureate curriculum may be offered.
她决定让孩子去公立学校八十中的国际部。中国学校越来越多地开设国际部，有一些提供国际中学毕业会考课程，学生入学需持有外国护照。
For Ms. Zhang, unlike Ms. Ma or Ms. Qiu, money is an issue, as it is for many. Natalie spent some time at an international school in Beijing, but the cost was crippling. “It was my whole savings!” said Ms. Zhang. “I can’t do that.”
与马女士和邱东不同，对张樵而言，费用是个问题，这一点和许多人一样。纳塔莉在北京的一所国际学校待了段时间，不过费用负担过大。她说：“花了我全部的积蓄！不能这样。”
International schools in the capital cost around 230,000 renminbi, or more than $37,000, for annual tuition alone, depending on the child’s age.
首都北京的国际学校每年光是学费就在23万元人民币（约合3.7万多美元）上下，根据小孩的年龄有所波动。
Another negative for some globalized Chinese parents is the expatriate “bubble” they see at international schools, which they feel keeps children apart from the “real” China. Some say Chinese children may be at a social as well as linguistic disadvantage there.
对一些全球化的中国家长而言，还有一个弊端是，他们认为国际学校形成了外国侨民的“金鱼缸”，把孩子与“真正的”中国隔离开来。一些人表示，在那里，中国孩子可能会处于社交和语言的双重劣势。
Ms. Zhang says state-run Chinese schools will teach better Chinese and demand of students an old-fashioned respect for their elders. She’s happy with that. Her daughter feels German, but “we have to teach the kids how to take the best of both worlds,” Ms. Zhang said. “This is the next generation, and the world will look like that.”
张樵认为，中国公立学校将更好地教授中文，还会要求学生按照传统尊重长辈，她对此很高兴。她的女儿更认同德国，不过“我们得教育孩子如何汲取两个世界的精华”，张樵说，“他们是下一代，世界将会变成那样。”
Many parents like Ms. Zhang prefer the idea of international streams within Chinese schools. But there are concerns: These may be halfway houses that don’t really nail either the Chinese or the Western curriculum. State schools are tightly managed by the education authorities and the Communist Party, and parents have little input. Some worry foreign teachers hired by these schools, often through agencies whose decisions and finances are opaque, are hired too cheaply and may be inexperienced.
许多像张樵这样的家长更喜欢中国学校的国际部。不过其中也有些令人担忧之处：这类教育可能是一种折衷，既不能满足中国课程的要求，也不能满足西方课程的要求。而且公立学校受到教育部门和共产党的严格管控，家长没什么参与。还有一些人担心，这些学校往往通过决策和财务不透明的中介机构聘用外国教师，可能请来的是太廉价或没有经验的老师。
It is, perhaps, no wonder that some parents are losing sleep over their choice. They want the critical thinking and creativity of Western education but not the very high fees and expatriate “bubble” of international schools; the cultural immersion, language and math skills of Chinese schools but not the very long hours and competitiveness that can cause burnout. They want their kids to be moral and truly global, to be both Chinese and Western. No school seems to offer all that. And with much at stake amid this conflicting mix of values, the choice feels truly difficult for many.
也许，这就是一些家长为什么会因为自己的选择而失眠。他们希望拥有西式教育的批判性思维和创造性，但又不想要国际学校奇高的学费和侨民的“金鱼缸”；他们希望拥有中式学校的文化熏陶，以及语言和数学技能，但又不想要让人精疲力竭的超长学习时间和激烈竞争。他们希望子女品行端正的同时又真正地全球化，中西合璧。似乎没有学校能满足所有要求。面对如此相互冲突的混合价值观，赌注又如此之高，难怪许多人觉得非常不好做出抉择。