HONG KONG — Chinese companies are trying to leap back into the United States stock markets.
香港——又一次，中国公司试图重回美国股票市场。
The return, still in its early days and involving just a handful of companies, comes after several years of accounting scandals that pummeled their share prices and prompted scores of companies to delist from markets in the United States.
中国公司的此次回归才刚刚拉开序幕，也只牵涉了几家公司。在此之前的几年里，因为层出不穷的会计丑闻，中国概念股股价一落千丈，数十家公司不得不从美国退市。
But the spate of recent activity suggests investors may be warming once more to Chinese companies that seek initial public offerings in the United States.
但是最近，上市案例明显增多。这说明，对于那些寻求来美国首次公开募股的中国公司来说，投资者的态度再次转暖。
Qunar Cayman Islands, a popular travel website owned by Baidu, China’s leading search engine company, began trading on Nasdaq on Friday and nearly doubled in price. On Thursday, shares in 58.com, a Chinese classified ad website operator that is often compared to Craigslist, surged 42 percent on the first trading day in New York after its $187 million public offering.
去哪儿开曼群岛公司(Qunar Cayman Islands)经营着百度旗下的知名旅行网站，而百度正是中国领先的搜索引擎公司。周五，去哪儿在纳斯达克正式开始交易，之后股价几乎翻番。周四，是58同城(58.com)的股票在纽约的第一个交易日，该公司共募集1.87亿美元的资金，其股价在首日便上涨42%。该公司是一家中国分类网站，经常被人拿来跟Craigslist作比较。
The question now — for both American investors and the companies from China waiting in the wings to raise money from them — is whether these recent debuts are an anomaly or have truly managed to unfreeze a market that was once a top destination for Chinese companies seeking to list overseas.
不论对美国的投资人，还是排着队等着从他们身上筹集资金的中国公司来说，现在的问题是，这些公司的上市，究竟是反常事件，还是说明美国股票市场又一次解冻了。要知道，美国股票市场一度是渴望海外上市的中国公司的首选。
Peter Fuhrman, chairman of China First Capital, an investment bank and advisory firm based in Shenzhen, China, said that for both sides, the recent signs of a détente between American investors and Chinese companies is “a matter of selectively hoping history repeats itself.”
傅成(Peter Fuhrman)是中国首创(China First Capital)的董事长，该公司是一家总部位于中国深圳的投资银行和咨询公司。傅成说，种种迹象表明，最近一段时间，美国投资者和中国公司之间的关系出现缓和，不过这是“选择性的一厢情愿，人们希望能够重复历史”。
“Not the recent history of Chinese companies dogged by allegations, and some evidence, of accounting fraud and other suspect practices,” he added. “Instead, the current group is looking back farther in history, to a time when some Chinese Internet companies with business models derived, borrowed or pilfered from successful U.S. companies were able to go public in the U.S. to great acclaim.”
傅成还说，“不是刚刚过去的那段历史，即中国公司受到诸多指控，以及会计欺诈和其他可疑行径的证据的困扰。最近的投资者看的是更久之前的历史，那个时候，一些中国互联网公司借用甚至剽窃了美国公司的商业模式，能在美国上市，并取得了巨大成功。”
That initial wave of Chinese technology listings began in 2000 with the I.P.O. of Sina.com and later featured companies like Baidu, which has been described as China’s answer to Google. In total, more than 200 companies from China achieved listings on American markets, raising billions of dollars through traditional public offerings or reverse takeovers.
中国科技股的第一波上市浪潮始于2000年，标志是新浪网公开上市，之后上市的还有百度，它曾经被描述为中国的谷歌。全部加起来，有超过200家中国公司成功登陆美国股市，它们通过传统的公开募股，或者反向收购的方式，筹集了数十亿美元的资本。
But beginning about 2010, short-sellers and regulators started exposing what grew into a flurry of accounting scandals at Chinese companies with overseas listings. In some cases, such accusations have led to the filing of fraud charges by regulators or to the dissolution of the companies. Prominent examples include the Toronto-listed Sino-Forest Corporation, which filed for bankruptcy last year after Muddy Waters Research placed a bet against the company’s shares in 2011 and accused it of being a “multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme.”
但是从2010年开始，对于海外上市的中国公司，做空者和监管者开始揭露出一系列会计丑闻。在一些个案中，这些指控导致监管者对公司提起诈骗诉讼，甚至出现了公司解散的情况。知名的例子包括在多伦多上市的嘉汉林业(Sino-Forest Corporation)。2011年，浑水公司(Muddy Waters Research)指控嘉汉林业是一个“数十亿美元的庞氏骗局”，并做空其股票。去年，嘉汉林业提出了破产申请。
Concerns about companies based in China were reinforced in December when the United States Securities and Exchange Commission accused the Chinese affiliates of five big accounting firms of violating securities laws, contending that they had failed to produce documents from their audits of several China-based companies under investigation for fraud.
去年12月，美国证券交易委员会(United States Securities and Exchange Commission)对五大会计师事务所的中国分支提出了指控，认为后者违反了证券法规，并声称，这些会计师事务所对若干家中国公司进行了审计，却没有在欺诈调查中提供有关资料；因此，人们对来自中国的公司的担忧又加深了。
In response, American demand for new share offerings by Chinese companies evaporated, and investors dumped shares in Chinese companies across the board. It became so bad that the tide of listings reversed direction: Delistings by Chinese companies from American markets have outnumbered public offerings for the last two years.
作为回应，对于中国公司的新股发行，美国人的兴趣一下子烟消云散；放眼看去，都是投资人在抛售中国公司的股票。情况越来越坏，赴美上市潮开始出现逆转：过去两年，从美国市场退市的中国公司数目甚至超过了赴美公开募股的公司数目。
Despite the renewed activity, it is too early to say whether Chinese stocks are back in favor. The listing by 58.com was only the fourth Chinese public offering in the United States this year, according to Thomson Reuters data. LightInTheBox, an online retailer, raised $90.7 million in a June listing but is trading slightly below its offering price. China Commercial Credit, a microlender, has risen 50 percent since it raised $8.9 million in August. And shares in the Montage Technology Group, based in Shanghai, have risen 41 percent since it raised $80.2 million in late September.
虽然上市热潮再起，但是，要说中国的股票又一次获得了垂青，现在还为时尚早。根据汤森路透的数据，58同城只是今年在美上市的第四家中国公司。兰亭集势(LightInTheBox)是一家网络零售商，该公司于今年6月上市，募集了9070万美元，但是现在其股价要略低于其发行价格。中国商务信贷(China Commercial Credit)是一家小额贷款机构，该公司8月份上市，募集资金890万美元，其现在的股价上涨了50%。而上海的澜起科技(Montage Technology Group)9月底上市，募集8020万美元，到现在为止，股价已经上涨了41%。
Still, this year’s activity is already an improvement from 2012, when only two such deals took place, according to figures from Thomson Reuters. Last month, two more Chinese companies — 500.com, an online lottery agent, and Sungy Mobile, an app developer — submitted initial filings for American share sales.
但是，今年的行情已经比2012年好了不少；根据汤森路透的数据，2012年仅有两起上市案例发生。上个月，又有两家中国公司提交了在美上市的初步申请，分别是在线彩票中介500彩票网(500.com)和应用开发商久邦数码(Sungy Mobile)。
But the broader concerns related to Chinese companies have not gone away. In May, financial regulators in the United States and China signed a memorandum of understanding that could pave the way to increased American oversight of accounting practices at Chinese companies. But the S.E.C.’s case against the Chinese affiliates of the five big accounting firms remains in court.
不过，对于中国公司的更广泛担忧并没有散去。5月份，中美的金融监管者共同签署谅解备忘录，或为美国加强对中国公司会计制度的监管铺平了道路。但是，美国证监会针对五大会计师事务所中国分支的诉讼程序仍在进行过程中。
The corporate structure of many Chinese companies is another unresolved area of concern. Because foreign companies and shareholders cannot own Internet companies in China, both 58.com and Qunar rely on a complex series of management and profit control agreements called variable interest entities. Whether such arrangements will stand up in court has been a cause for concern among foreign investors in Chinese companies.
许多中国公司的企业架构则是另外一个尚未解决的隐忧。因为外国公司和外国股东不能直接拥有中国的互联网公司，58同城和去哪儿都使用了一系列复杂的管理协议和利润分享协议，统称为可变利益实体(variable interest entities)。中国公司的外方投资者担心，这些协议安排究竟能否在法律上站住脚。
And short-sellers continue to single out companies from China, often with great success.
同时，做空者还是继续盯着中国概念股，很多情况下，他们都获得了巨大成功。
In a report last month, Muddy Waters took aim at NQ Mobile, an online security company based in Beijing and listed in New York, accusing it of being “a massive fraud” and contending that 72 percent of its revenue from the security business in China last year was “fictitious.”
上个月公布的一份报告中，浑水公司把目标瞄准了网秦(NQ Mobile)，这是一家位于北京，并在纽约上市的在线安全公司。浑水报告指控网秦实施了一个“巨大的欺诈”计划，声称网秦去年在中国安全业务收入的72%都是“编造”的。
NQ Mobile has rejected the accusations, saying that the report contained “numerous errors of facts, misleading speculations and malicious interpretations of events.” The company’s shares have fallen 37 percent since the report was published.
网秦否认了这些指控，声称浑水的报告包含了“大量的事实错误，误导性推测，和对事件的的恶意解读。”自从报告公布之后，该公司的股价已经下跌了37%。