HONG KONG — The authorities in China are investigating Uber’s planned sale of its Chinese operations to a local rival, complicating a deal intended to bring the American ride-share operator’s costly venture there to an end.
香港——美国约车服务提供商优步拟将其中国业务出售给当地竞争者的计划目前正在接受中国政府的调查。优步在中国损失惨重，意欲停止在这里的业务，但这笔交易如今又遇波折。
At a daily press briefing on Friday, Shen Danyang, a spokeman for the country’s Commerce Ministry, said the inquiry was prompted by local concerns about Uber’s plan to sell the business to China’s Didi Chuxing. The deal, announced one month ago, would create a new company worth $35 billion that would hold a strong position in the Chinese market for hailing cars via smartphone apps.
在周五的例行新闻发布会上，中国商务部发言人沈丹阳说，优步向中国的滴滴出行出售业务的计划引发了本地的担忧。上月公布的该笔交易将产生一个估值350亿美元的新公司，稳稳占据中国手机应用约车市场上的一席之地。
The ministry “will protect fair competition in the relevant market and safeguard the interests of consumers and the public,” Mr. Shen said, according to an official transcript of the press conference.
沈丹阳说，商务部“将继续依法推进本案调查工作，保护相关市场公平竞争，维护消费者利益和社会公共利益”。
Neither Uber nor Didi Chuxing immediately responded to requests for comment.
优步与滴滴出行都未回应采访请求。
The two companies had ratcheted up competition since last year, spending growing amounts of money to subsidize drivers and expand into more Chinese cities. Uber last week said it lost $1.2 billion in the first half of this year, with China accounting for a significant chunk.
这两家公司在中国市场上竞争激烈。优步上周承认，今年上半年，公司损失12亿美元，其中很大一部分来自中国。
The investigation comes as China looks to bolster its antitrust enforcement. The country’s antitrust law is only eight years old, but local experts say it is an essential part of nurturing a stronger consumer culture and greater competition in business. Foreign companies have sometimes complained that antitrust authorities unfairly focus on them, an accusation that China denies.
沈丹阳在声明中说，滴滴未能就该笔交易第一时间通知商务部。商务部已经两次约谈该公司，要求其说明交易情况、未申报的原因，并按商务部提出的问题清单提交有关文件、资料。
In his statement, Mr. Shen said that Didi did not initially notify the agency that it had struck the deal. In two subsequent interviews with Didi, he said, it asked the company for further explanations for the reasons behind the deal and to broadly describe industry trends.
商务部可能会针对这笔交易追加条件，或者彻底阻止交易。但考虑到收购方是一家中国公司，彻底叫停的可能性不大。
The ministry could put conditions on the deal or even block it outright. A full block is unlikely given the purchaser is a Chinese company.
但滴滴和优步仍然有理由担心。类似的合并鲜有先例，而且商务部曾经对一些交易迟迟不批，有时长达数年，以便得到符合政府心意的交易条款。