Eastern China is suffering from some of the most severe air pollution in recent memory, forcing schools to cancel classes in the city of Nanjing and shrouding Shanghai’s famous skyline in an acrid haze.
中国东部地区正在遭受近期记忆中最为严重的大气污染，迫使南京市的学校停课，并让上海著名的天际线笼罩在刺鼻的雾霾中。
Nanjing called off classes for all of the city’s kindergartens, elementary and middle schools Thursday, although schools remained open to watch over children who had no one to care for them during the day, the Nanjing-based Modern Express reported. In Shanghai, education officials told schools to call off outdoor activities due to the hazardous conditions.
根据南京《现代快报》的报道，周四的时候，该市中小学幼儿园全部停课，不过学校继续开放，以便看管家中白天无人照顾的学生。在上海，教育部门的官员援引有害的空气状况为由，要求学校停止课外活动。
Shanghai has reported air quality at levels deemed “heavily polluted” for much of the week. On Monday, the city’s air quality index was over 301 — the threshold for “severely polluted,” the most dangerous level according to China’s national standards — for more than 10 hours, the official Shanghai Daily newspaper reported.
本周大部分时候，上海公布的空气质量级别都是“重度污染”。官方媒体《上海日报》(Shanghai Daily)报道，该市周一的空气质量指数有十多个小时超过了301，也就是中国国家标准中最危险的级别——“严重污染”——的分界线。
That made it the worst air quality the city had experienced since the new index was put in place one year ago, the newspaper said.
文中称，这是上海一年前采用新指数以来空气质量最为恶劣的时刻。
By early evening Thursday, the pollution level in Shanghai was hovering at 340. At least 16 other cities in four provinces in eastern China were also reporting pollution levels over 300. In Zaozhuang, a city of nearly four million in Shandong Province, the pollution index hit 500, the maximum reading on the Chinese scale.
到周四傍晚，上海的空气质量指数在340上下徘徊。东部地区至少有其他4省16市公布的空气质量指数超过了300。人口近400万的山东枣庄的指数达到500，即国家标准的上限。
The pollution prompted the prominent property developer Zhang Xin to recommend on her microblog that all real estate developers install air filtration systems “to keep the smog from getting indoors.”
这种污染状况让知名地产商张欣在其微博中建议，地产开发商都应该加装空气净化系统，“做到室内没有雾霾。”
“Shanghai’s pollution is really bad. I’ve rarely seen it like this,” Yang Hongxu, vice president of the Shanghai-based E-house China Research and Development Institute, wrote on his Sina Weibo account Monday. “It’s not the lack of clarity, it’s that it’s really hard to breathe. In 10 years I’ve never been this sensitive to it.”
上海易居房地产研究院副院长杨红旭周一在其新浪微博页面上写道，“上海空气污染之严重，实属罕见！不是看空气透明度，而是呼吸道非常难受，十多年，从未如此敏感。”
Such conditions are more familiar to northern Chinese cities. Harbin, in far northeastern China, had an episode of “airpocalypse” in October with readings hitting the 500 maximum and residents complaining they could not see across traffic intersections.
中国北方的城市更常遇到这样的空气状况。10月份，东北城市哈尔滨遭遇了一场“空气末日”，质量读数达到500的上限，居民们抱怨无法看到交通路口的另一边。
In January, a pollution monitor at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, which uses an American air-quality index slightly different than China’s, hit 755, above the normal 0-500 scale. This week though the Chinese capital is experiencing much clearer skies thanks to strong winter winds blowing from the north.
今年1月，美国驻华大使馆污染监测仪的读数飙升到755，超过了正常的0-500的监测范围。大使馆采用的是美国的空气质量指数，与中国略有不同。不过，由于北方吹来的强劲冷风，首都本周的天空一直非常清澈。
Factors such as central heating systems dependent on coal mean that northern China experiences frequent bouts of toxic air, the latest episode of serious pollution in eastern China is a reminder that the rest of the country is not immune to the dangers.
依赖煤炭的中央供暖系统等因素意味着，中国北方时常经历阵阵有毒空气，而东部地区最近这轮严重污染提醒人们，中国的其他地区也不能幸免。
Environmental officials blamed the poor conditions on the lack of strong winds to flush out bad air and the growing number of vehicles pumping out pollutants, according to the Shanghai-based Oriental Morning Post. The newspaper said more favorable weather conditions that could help reduce pollution are expected to begin Sunday.
根据上海《东方早报》的报道，环保官员将糟糕的空气归咎于静稳天气下大气扩散条件非常差，以及排放尾气污染的机动车数量持续增加。文中称，可能有利于减轻污染的较好天气条件预计将于周日开始出现。