LONDON — The state-owned China National Chemical Corporation said on Monday that it had received clearance from a regulator in the United States for its $43 billion acquisition of Syngenta, a giant in farm chemicals and seeds.
伦敦——中国国有企业中国化工集团公司周一宣布，其出资430亿美元（约合2900亿元人民币）收购农化和种子行业巨头先正达(Syngenta)一事，已获得美国监管机构的批准。
The approval by the regulator, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, removed one of the biggest potential challenges to the deal, as the interagency body had previously proved to be an obstacle for cross-border agreements involving Chinese companies.
该机构名为美国外国投资委员会(Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States)，这一监管机构的批准，消除了这笔交易面临的最严峻的潜在挑战之一，因为之前的事实证明，这个跨部门机构是涉及中国公司跨国交易面临的一大障碍。
The China National Chemical Corporation, known as ChemChina, has been an active buyer in recent years, acquiring more than a half-dozen companies in Europe, the Middle East and Australia. But if it is completed, the Syngenta purchase would be China’s biggest foreign deal ever.
近年来，中国化工集团公司，简称中国化工，一直是一个积极的买家，在欧洲、中东和澳大利亚收购了六家以上的公司。但如果收购先正达的交易完成，这将是中国最大的对外收购交易。
ChemChina agreed to acquire Syngenta in February, about six months after the Swiss company rejected a $47 billion takeover bid by Monsanto. Syngenta said at the time that the American company’s offer undervalued it, and that it might be difficult to execute because of regulatory concerns. Monsanto abandoned its pursuit in August.
今年2月，中国化工同意收购先正达，此时距这家瑞士公司拒绝孟山都(Monsanto)470亿美元的收购要约已过去了大约六个月。当时，先正达称美国公司孟山都的报价低估了自己的价值，并表示因为监管方面的问题，交易可能难以达成。去年8月，孟山都放弃收购。
But Dow Chemical and DuPont agreed to combine in December, further consolidating the pesticide industry and limiting Syngenta’s opportunities for a merger of its own. Analysts said after that deal that Monsanto or ChemChina were Syngenta’s most likely merger partners.
但去年12月，陶氏化学(Dow Chemical)和杜邦(DuPont)同意合并。这使杀虫剂行业进一步整合，限制了先正达自己的合并机会。那项协议达成后，分析人士称孟山都或中国化工是最有可能与先正达合并的合作伙伴。
Syngenta, based in Basel, Switzerland, is one of the world’s largest producers of agricultural chemicals, including insecticides, fungicides, herbicides and seeds. It was formed in November 2000 by the merger of the agribusinesses of Novartis and AstraZeneca.
总部设在瑞士巴塞尔的先正达是全世界最大的农用化学品生产商之一，产品包括杀虫剂、杀菌剂、除草剂和种子。它由诺华公司(Novartis)和阿斯利康(AstraZeneca)的农业业务部门在2000年11月合并而成。
Syngenta reported sales of $13.4 billion in 2015, of which 27 percent came from North America. The company employs more than 28,000 people in over 90 countries.
先正达通报称2015年销售额为134亿美元，其中27%来自北美市场。该公司在90多个国家拥有逾2.8万名员工。
When they announced the deal, Syngenta and ChemChina emphasized that the Swiss company’s headquarters and management would remain in place, and they noted that there was limited overlap in their products to give cause regulators pause.
宣布这项协议时，先正达和中国化工强调这家瑞士公司的总部和管理团队就被保留，并指出双方可会让监管机构有理由犹豫的产品重叠范围有限。
The transaction is still subject to antitrust review in several countries, ChemChina and Syngenta said. “Both companies are working closely with the regulatory agencies involved and discussions remain constructive,” they said in a news release.
中国化工和先正达表示，这笔交易依然须接受多个国家的反垄断审查。“双方正在同涉及的监管机构密切合作，讨论依然具有建设性，”它们在一份新闻稿中说。
The companies said they expected the deal to close by the end of this year.
两家公司表示，预计交易会在今年年底之前完成。
The approval by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which reviews deals for potential national security issues, removes a major roadblock.
美国外国投资委员会的批准消除了一大障碍。出于对潜在的国家安全问题的考虑，该机构会对相关交易进行审核。
Last year, the committee raised “unforeseen concerns” about a similar deal in which Philips, the Dutch electronics giant, would sell a controlling stake in its automotive and LED components business to GO Scale Capital, an investment fund sponsored by GSR Ventures of China and Oak Investment Partners.
去年，该委员会对一桩类似交易提出了“未预见到的担忧”。当时，荷兰电子业巨头飞利浦(Philips)欲将旗下汽车和LED部件公司的控股权，出售给GO Scale Capital。后者是中国的金沙江创业投资与橡树投资伙伴(Oak Investment Partners)共同建立的投资基金。
The ChemChina-Syngenta deal is the latest in a series of recent moves by the Chinese company.
近期，中国化工采取了一系列的行动，收购先正达这笔交易是其最新动作。
In January, it took a minority stake in Mercuria, a Swiss energy and commodities company, to diversify its portfolio and expand into the energy sector. That same month, it sealed a deal for KraussMaffei, a German manufacturer of plastic- and rubber-processing machinery, for about $1 billion.
今年1月，为实现投资组合的多元化并进军能源行业，中国化工收购瑞士能源和大宗商品公司摩科瑞(Mercuria)的少数股份。同月，中国化工完成了出资约10亿美元，收购德国塑料和橡胶加工机械制造商克劳斯玛菲(KraussMaffei)的交易。
And last year, ChemChina bought Pirelli, the Italian tire maker, for 7.1 billion euros, or about $8 billion at current exchange rates.
去年，中国化工斥资71亿欧元，收购意大利轮胎制造商倍耐力(Pirelli)。按照当前的汇率，这笔交易的收购价约合80亿美元。