BEIJING — The Chinese government has widened a crackdown on prostitution, gambling and drug use to major provinces across the country, according to reports on Monday in state-run news organizations.
北京——据中国官方新闻机构周一报道，中国政府已将打击卖淫、赌博、吸毒的范围扩展至全国各地的主要省份。
The crackdown is being overseen by officials in the Ministry of Public Security, which manages most police forces in China. Officials in the ministry had already dispatched a supervisory group to carry out the first step in the nationwide sweep, which began on Feb. 10 in the southern city of Dongguan, according to a statement on the ministry’s website. Dongguan, a manufacturing hub teeming with migrant workers, is sometimes known as China’s “sin city,” and prostitution there had long been tolerated as a significant part of the local economy.
打击行动由公安部官员监督，公安部控制着全国大部分警力。根据公安部网站上的一份声明，该部官员此前即已派出一个督导组，迈出了全国打击行动的第一步。全国打击行动于2月10日在南部城市东莞开始。东莞是制造业中心，聚集着大量农民工，有时被称为中国的“罪恶之都”。长期以来，卖淫活动在东莞获得默许，成为当地经济的重要组成部分。
The statement was posted one day after China Central Television broadcast a program on Feb. 9 that purported to expose the prevalence of prostitution in Dongguan. The program prompted criticism online by a range of people, including women’s rights advocates, who say the police are unfairly singling out prostitutes.
2月9日，中央电视台播出了一个节目，意在曝光东莞普遍存在的卖淫活动。公安部第二天就发布了前述声明。该节目在网上引发了各种人的批评，比如妇女权益倡导者，他们称警方专门针对妓女的做法不公平。
On Monday, a Chinese newspaper, Beijing News, reported that the Ministry of Public Security had ordered provinces across China to follow the example of Guangdong, the southern province next to Hong Kong that includes Dongguan. The report said that 16 cities in nine provinces had begun taking part in the “sweep yellow” campaign, called that because “yellow” in Chinese can refer to things of an erotic, lewd or sexually illicit nature.
周一，《新京报》报道称，公安部已经要求全国各省效仿广东。广东是邻近香港的南部省份，东莞便是该省城市。报道称，9省16市已经开始开展“扫黄”行动，中文的“黄”字可以指代与色情、淫荡或非法性活动有关的事情。
Since the start of the sweep, police units across China had investigated almost 1,500 cases related to prostitution, uncovered 73 criminal gangs, arrested more than 500 people and shut down more than 2,400 sites where sex was for sale, Beijing News reported Tuesday.
周二，《新京报》报道，打击行动开始以来，警方在全国范围内已经调查涉黄案件约1500起，挖出犯罪团伙73个，拘捕超过500人，并关闭了超过2400个提供色情服务的场所。
The new crackdown appears intended to send a propaganda message similar to the so-called anticorruption campaign promoted by Xi Jinping, the Communist Party leader. Mr. Xi has made it a goal to force recalcitrant elements of the party to fall in line with central leadership.
新的打击行动似乎意在传达一种宣传讯息，与共产党领导人习近平推动的所谓反腐运动相似。习近平已经定下了一个目标，那就是迫使党内的不听话分子服从中央领导。
“I think it is another step by Xi to tighten control on ideology and society,” said Ai Xiaoming, a literature professor at Zhongshan University in Guangzhou, the capital of Guangdong, and a gender studies scholar. “Xi wants a China that is completely under control and has no such a thing as a sex industry. There is no such thing as a sex worker in Xi’s China dream.”
“我觉得这是习近平加紧管控意识形态和社会的又一步，”广州中山大学文学教授、性别研究学者艾晓明说。“习近平要的是一个完全处于掌控之中的中国，其中不能有性产业这样的事情。在习近平的中国梦里，没有性工作者这样的人。”广州是广东省的省会。
Li Sipan, a women’s rights advocate in Guangzhou, said: “Xi has his own vision for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, which has a very strong moral aspect. The campaign again shows Xi’s conservative and purity-based values. It is another step towards Xi-style China.”
广州的妇女权益倡导者李思攀（音译）说，“习近平对于中华民族的复兴有自己的愿景，其中带有非常强烈的道德意味。这次行动再次显示了习近平以纯洁为基础的保守价值观。这是向习式中国迈出的又一步。”
“As a women’s rights advocate, I’m worried that there might be a lot of abuse of power by the police towards sex workers,” Ms. Li added.
李思攀还说，“作为一名女性权利倡导者，我担心警察对性工作者滥用权力的现象会大量出现。”
News reports in recent days have listed participating provinces, including Sichuan, Heilongjiang, Hunan, Jiangsu, Shandong, Guangxi and Gansu.
近日的新闻报道列出了参与此次活动的省份，其中包括四川、黑龙江、湖南、江苏、山东、广西和甘肃。
One report, for example, said that 6,500 police officers had been involved in a crackdown on the three vices in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan. The crackdown began on Feb. 10, as in Dongguan, and 335 people have been arrested on charges related to prostitution, gambling and drugs, the report said.
例如，其中一篇报道称，四川省省会成都共有6500名警察参与了打击“黄赌毒”的行动。报道称，跟东莞一样，打击行动于2月10日展开，共有335人因与卖淫、赌博和吸毒有关的指控而被捕。
In Harbin, the frigid capital of Heilongjiang Province, in northeast China, more than 4,800 police officers checked more than 2,700 locations and detained at least 27 people, according to one news report.
天气严寒的哈尔滨是中国东北省份黑龙江的省会。一篇新闻报道称，该省的4800多名警察对2700多个场所进行了清查，逮捕了至少27人。
Prostitution is common across China, where many hotels offer sex for pay, and hair salons and massage parlors often serve as fronts for brothels.
卖淫活动在中国十分普遍，许多酒店都提供付费的色情服务，发廊和按摩店也往往成为妓院的幌子。
When police officers do decide to round up prostitutes, they might detain them for long periods in systems of extralegal punishment, including one called “custody and education,” in which those held are forced to do labor.
下定决心围捕妓女的时候，警方可能会对妓女实施长时间的拘押，依据则是种种法外惩教制度，其中一种名为“收容教育”，这种制度下的在押人员将被迫从事体力劳动。
People’s Daily, has been publishing editorials and commentaries supporting the crackdown. One published on Feb. 13 ran under the headline, “The boundary of right and wrong should not be blurred.” The next day, the newspaper ran a similar opinion piece with the headline, “The bottom line of civilization must not be profaned.”
《人民日报》一直在发表支持打击行动的社论和评论。2月13日发表的一篇文章题为《是非界限岂能模糊》。次日，《人民日报》又发表了一篇内容相似的评论文章，题为《文明底线不容亵渎》。
The essay went on to say: “Any healthy society, while having a diverse range of ideas, should have some basic bottom line, some common sense and value. Liberation of thinking doesn’t mean having wild ideas, and it also doesn’t mean an indulgence of behavior.”
文章称：“任何一个健康的社会，在思想观念多元多样的同时，也必须有一些起码的底线、基本的共识、普遍的价值。思想解放，不等于胡思乱想，更不等于行为放纵。”
During the crackdown, some officials have been dismissed or forced to apologize for their lack of vigilance. Last Friday, the official news agency Xinhua reported that Yan Xiaokang, the police chief of Dongguan and a deputy mayor, was dismissed from his job, and that officials were opening an investigation into his actions.
打击行动当中，一些官员因行动不力而被免职或被迫检讨。上周五，官方通讯社新华社报道，东莞市副市长兼公安局长严小康已被免职，官方将对他的行为展开调查。
Other senior police officers have also been dismissed. Party chiefs in four towns in the Dongguan area have issued public apologies.
其他一些高级警官也已被免职。东莞地区已有四个城镇的党委书记公开发表了检讨。