BEIJING — In a sign of growing concern about North Korea’s nuclear ambitions, China published a long list on Tuesday of equipment and chemical substances to be banned from export to North Korea for fear they could be used in adding to its increasingly sophisticated nuclear weapons programs.
北京——周二，中国发布了一份清单，清单列有一长串禁止向朝鲜出口的器材和化学原料，因为他们担心这些物品会被用于日益先进的核武器项目。此举表明，中国越来越担心朝鲜的核野心。
If put into place, the export controls would be some of the strongest steps taken by China, the North’s closest ally, to try to limit the country’s nuclear programs. The announcement indicates that China is now following through on some United Nations Security Council sanctions it approved months ago, according to a noted American arms expert.
倘若得到执行，这项出口控制将成为朝鲜的最亲密盟友中国为限制朝鲜核项目而采取的最严厉举措之一。一位著名美国武器专家称，该声明显示中国正在执行联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)的部分制裁措施，这些措施早在几个月之前就被中国批准。
The list of banned items was released amid a flurry of reports suggesting that North Korea is accelerating its two nuclear weapons programs. Two weeks ago, new satellite photographs showed that North Korea might be resuming production of plutonium at its newly reconstructed nuclear reactor at Yongbyon. And this week, two American arms experts reported that North Korea appeared to have learned to produce its own crucial components for uranium enrichment.
发布禁售货品清单之时，媒体正在大量报道朝鲜加速其两个核武器项目的举动。两周前，新的卫星图片显示，朝鲜可能正在最近重建的宁边核反应堆恢复钚生产。本周，两名美国武器专家报告称，朝鲜似乎掌握了自行生产铀浓缩关键部件的技术。
The move also comes less than a week after China made another unsuccessful attempt to revive talks aimed at persuading the North to give up its nuclear capabilities. The United States continues to resist restarting the talks, which North Korea has used in the past to extract concessions without making long-term changes to its nuclear program.
仅在不到一周前，中国还曾再次尝试恢复旨在说服朝鲜放弃核能力的对话，但没有取得成功。美国仍拒绝重启会谈，因为在过去，朝鲜经常利用会谈来获取让步，同时又不对自己的核项目做出长期修改。
“The release of the new export control list is a signal China is concerned about the speeding up of weaponization” of North Korea’s nuclear capabilities, said Zhu Feng, the deputy director of the Center for International and Strategic Studies at Beijing University, who called the move “very important.” In particular, he said, the Chinese are concerned about resumption of plutonium production at the Yongbyon complex, the centerpiece of North Korea’s nuclear program.
“出口控制新清单的发布表明中国对”朝鲜核能力“武器化的加速感到担心”，北京大学国际战略研究中心副主任朱锋说。他认为该举动“非常重要”。他说，中国尤其担心宁边核设施钚生产的恢复。宁边核设施是朝鲜核项目的核心组成部分。
Another Chinese expert on North Korea, who declined to be identified because of his position in the government hierarchy, said the publication of the list “says that China is increasingly unsatisfied with North Korea’s actions.”
另一名研究朝鲜问题的中国专家说，这个清单的发布“表明中国对朝鲜的举动越来越不满”。他因为在政府供职而要求匿名。
“This is one of the practical actions to show it,” he said.
他说，“这是表明中国不满情绪的一项实际行动。”
Both plutonium and highly enriched uranium can be used in nuclear bombs, but analysts say the North’s plutonium program is much further along. At least two of the three bombs the country has tested used plutonium.
钚和高度浓缩的铀都可以用来制造核弹，但分析人士称，朝鲜的钚项目远比铀项目成熟。在朝鲜试验的三枚核弹中，至少有两枚用的是钚。
China has long resisted punishing North Korea for its nuclear programs, but has appeared increasingly frustrated as the North’s young leader, Kim Jong-un, has appeared to ignore Chinese pleas for moderation. China agreed to the United Nations sanctions after the North conducted a nuclear test this year over Chinese objections.
长期以来，中国一直不愿意因为核项目惩罚朝鲜。与此同时，由于朝鲜的年轻领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)似乎不理会中国缓和局势的请求，中国似乎越来越感到失望。今年，朝鲜不顾中国反对进行了一次核试验，中国随即同意了联合国的制裁决议。
The North responded to the sanctions with months of nuclear threats against South Korea and the United States, which, analysts say, ended only after China exerted strong pressure, apparently fearful of instability that could harm its economic progress.
作为对制裁的回应，朝鲜连续数月威胁要对韩国和美国发动核攻击；分析人士称，这些威胁直到中国加大施压力度后才结束，中国施压的动机明显是担心动荡的局面损害自身的经济发展。
David Albright, the American expert who said China was now implementing the United Nations sanctions passed in March, added that the Chinese ban “will help, since North Korea procures so much from China.” Mr. Albright, the president of the Institute for Science and International Security, added that China could take additional measures to “dramatically increase the inspection of goods into North Korea by road and rail.”
美国专家戴维·奥尔布赖特(David Albright)表示，中国现在正在实施联合国今年3月通过的制裁措施。他补充说，中国的禁令“会有帮助，因为朝鲜从中国获取了太多的东西”。奥尔布赖特是华盛顿科学和国际安全研究所( Institute for Science and International Security)的所长，他还表示，中国可能会采取其他举措，“大幅加强对通过公路和铁路运往朝鲜的商品的检查。”
China has moved before to stop the export of other technologies that could be used in nuclear programs, including missile technology, though it did not single out any countries when it did so.
中国之前曾采取行动，停止输出可能被用于核计划的技术，比如导弹技术，不过，中国采取该举措时并没有单独针对任何国家。
The items on the list China released Tuesday were called “dual-use technologies” because they can be used for either civilian or military purposes, and they included items that could be used to build more chemical weapons and to make biological weapons.
中国周二公布的清单列出的物项被称为“两用技术”，因为它们可以是民用，也可以是军用，其中一些物项可以用来扩大化学武器生产能力及制造生物武器。
Banned items include Ebola, a virus that can be used for medical research as well as a biological weapon; nickel powder; radium; flash X-ray generators; and microwave antennas designed to accelerate ions. China’s Commerce Ministry, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the General Administration of Customs, and the Atomic Energy Authority jointly published the list.
禁售物项包括可以用于医学研究及制造化学武器的伊波拉病毒，镍粉、镭、闪光X射线发生器，以及用于加速离子的微波天线。中国商务部、工业信息化部、海关总署和国家原子能机构共同发布了这份清单。
In a statement, the Ministry of Commerce said the items in the 236-page document were prohibited from being sent to North Korea because “the dual-use products and technologies delineated in this list have uses in weapons of mass destruction.”
商务部在一份声明中表示，中国禁止向朝鲜出口这份236页清单所列物项，因为这是“与大规模杀伤性武器相关的两用物项和技术”。
China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, who hosted the conference in Beijing last week on nuclear talks, said the time had come to resume the negotiations. And the first vice foreign minister of North Korea, Kim Kye-gwan, who attended the gathering, said North Korea was ready to talk without conditions, a standard phrase from the North Koreans for some time now.
中国外交部长王毅上周在北京主持了有关核谈判的会议，并且表示，是时候重启谈判了。出席上述会议的朝鲜外务省第一副相金桂冠(Kim Kye-gwan)表示，朝鲜准备无条件恢复谈判，这是朝鲜方面一段时间以来的标准措辞。
But the Obama administration has said it sees no sign that the North Korean government is serious about reducing its nuclear program. Instead, the United States says, North Korea appears to be increasing its nuclear activities.
但奥巴马政府已经表示，美国没有看到朝鲜政府认真缩减核计划的迹象。美国表示，与此相反，朝鲜似乎正在增加核活动。
On those grounds, the administration said it was not interested in participating in renewed talks unless North Korea first took concrete steps to dismantle its facilities. Washington declined to send a senior official to the conference here last week, instead sending a diplomat from the United States Embassy.
有鉴于此，奥巴马政府表示，美国无意参加新一轮谈判，除非朝鲜首先采取切实举措，拆除核设施。华盛顿方面拒绝派高级官员参加上周在北京举行的会议，转而派出了美国大使馆(United States Embassy)的一名外交官。
In remarks at the conference, a former senior State Department official and an expert on North Korea, Evans J. R. Revere, whose presence was approved by the administration, said North Korea was “further away than ever from the goal of denuclearization.”
经美国政府同意之后，前美国国务院(State Department)高级官员、朝鲜问题专家李维亚(Evans J. R. Revere)参加了会议。李维亚在会上发言称，朝鲜“距离无核化的目标更远了”。
Mr. Revere said North Korea had “declared itself a nuclear power, revealed to the world that it has not just one but two programs to produce fissile material, confirmed that it is developing strategic rocket forces for the delivery of nuclear weapons, and sworn that it will never give up its nuclear weapons ‘even in a dream.’ ”
李维亚表示，朝鲜已经“宣称自己是一个核国家，向全世界宣告自己生产裂变材料的项目不仅仅是一个，而是两个，确认自己正在发展战略火箭部队，运送核武器，并且发誓称，‘即使在梦里’也绝不会放弃核武器”。