After decades of decline, the prevalence of smoking in China has held steady in recent years. Coupled with population growth, this means there are now more smokers in China than ever, according to a new study on global smoking prevalence published this month in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
据《美国医学会杂志》(Journal of the American Medical Association)本月发表的一篇关于全球吸烟流行度的研究论文，经过数十年的下降，近年中国人的吸烟率维持在一个稳定的水平。结合人口的增长，这意味着中国现在的吸烟者达到了空前的数量。
China gained almost 100 million smokers between 1980 and 2012, despite an overall decrease in smoking prevalence in the same period from 30.4 percent to 24.2 percent. But prevalence has plateaued, remaining nearly unchanged since 2006. Prevalence is defined as the percentage of the population that smokes every day, adjusted for age.
从1980年到2012年间，尽管吸烟流行度从30.4%下降到24.2%，中国还是新增了将近一亿烟民。但是这个比率已经进入稳定期，自2006年以来几乎没有改变。流行度指的是每天吸烟的人在总人口中所占比例，并根据年龄做出调整。
Using a wide range of sources, including in-country surveys, government statistics and World Health Organization data, researchers also found that China had the highest number of smokers in the world in 2012 with 281 million, about one-third of the world’s smoking population. A report late last year by the state-run broadcaster CCTV put the number of smokers in China around 350 million.
研究使用的数据来源多种多样，包括国内调查、政府统计数据和世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)的数据。研究人员通过这些数据还发现，2012年中国成为世界上烟民最多的国家，达2.81亿人，约占世界吸烟人口的三分之一。国有广播机构中央电视台去年的一则报道称，中国的烟民约达3.5亿人。
The study, titled “Smoking Prevalence and Cigarette Consumption in 187 Countries, 1980-2012,” was conducted by researchers at the Seattle-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. The paper is among the first to produce a comprehensive global time series on smoking prevalence.
这个题为《187个国家在1980–2012年间的吸烟流行率和香烟消耗量》(Smoking Prevalence and Cigarette Consumption in 187 Countries, 1980-2012)的研究是由位于西雅图的健康指标和评估研究所(Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation)的研究人员进行的，为最早就吸烟流行率进行详实的全球性时间序列研究的论文之一。
The findings are significant, said Judith Mackay, senior adviser to the World Lung Foundation, because they highlight the “absolute need for China to awake and really grasp the political nettle of tobacco control.”
世界肺健基金会(World Lung Foundation)高级顾问朱迪斯·麦凯(Judith Mackay)说，这些研究发现有着重大意义，因为它们突显出“中国必须要警觉起来，立即着手解决烟草管制的政治困局。”
“The study shows that the tobacco epidemic is going to be a whole lot worse before it gets better, particularly in lower income countries,” Dr. Mackay said in a telephone interview. “If they do nothing at all there are going to be massive costs for China in terms of premature deaths, health care costs, environmental costs, economic costs, family costs — there are all manners of costs.”
“研究表明，烟草泛滥的状况在出现好转之前，还会经历进一步的恶化，尤其是在收入较低的国家，”麦凯在一次电话采访中说。“如果他们不采取措施，中国在早逝人口方面要付出巨大代价，还有医疗保障、环境、经济和家庭的代价——各种各样的代价都有。”
Substantial population growth and unchanging smoking prevalence in populous countries such as China, Bangladesh and Indonesia help explain why since 2006 the global decline in daily tobacco smoking has decelerated.
自2006年以来，全球日常吸烟人数的下降速度出现放缓。在中国、孟加拉国和印度尼西亚等人口稠密国家的人口持续增长，加上吸烟盛行的状况维持不变，均在一定程度上向我们解释了这种放缓现象的原因。
The leveling off of smoking prevalence in China and globally can also be attributed in part to varying degrees of addictiveness.
中国和全球吸烟流行率变化保持水平，也可以部分归咎于烟瘾程度的多样性。
“Change in tobacco prevalence typically has been slow, underscoring what a hard habit it is to break,” said Emmanuela Gakidou, professor of global health and director of education and training at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, in a news release.
“烟草流行率的变化通常是缓慢的，凸显出要打破这种习惯有多么困难，”健康指标和评估研究所全球健康教授、教育和培训主任艾曼纽艾拉·佳吉杜(Emmanuela Gakidou)在一则新闻通稿中说。
The average number of cigarettes consumed daily per smoker in China has increased as well. According to the study, whereas the average smoker consumed about 15 cigarettes a day in 1980, by 2012 that number had risen to 22.
中国烟民每人每日消耗香烟的平均数量也有增加。该研究显示，1980年平均每天消耗香烟约15支，到2012年已经上升到22支。
By contrast, four countries — Canada, Iceland, Mexico and Norway — reduced their smoking prevalence by more than half in the same period. Globally, the average number of cigarettes consumed per smoker per day declined from about 18 to about 17 in 2012.
相比之下，加拿大、冰岛、墨西哥和挪威四国的吸烟流行率在同期下降了超过一半。从全球看，每个烟民平均每天的香烟消耗量从约18支下降到了2012年的约17支。
The increase in number of smokers in China has taken place in spite of a number of measures enacted by the government in recent years to restrict smoking, which researchers say is among the leading risk factors for death in China.
尽管中国政府近年施行了一些限烟措施，该国的烟民数量还是出现上升，研究人员称吸烟在中国已经成为死亡的最大风险因素之一。
These efforts have included a ban on smoking in restaurants and other public places as well as a directive issued in December urging Communist Party officials to quit altogether. But with no penalty for noncompliance, these measures are rarely enforced.
限烟措施包括在餐厅和其他公共场所禁止吸烟，此外去年12月还下达指示要求中共官员一起戒烟。但是这些措施并不会对违规者进行处罚，因此很少得到执行。
But while the overall number of smokers in China has increased, the skewed gender ratio of China’s smoking population has only become more pronounced. Only about 4 percent of smokers in China in 2012 were female, down from about 8 percent in 1980. That greater independence and improved economic conditions have not led to an increase in smoking among Chinese women — and Asian women more generally — is “puzzling,” said Dr. Mackay of the World Lung Foundation, considering that these factors have been associated with a rise in smoking among women in the West.
然而，尽管中国烟民总数量上升，吸烟人口的性别比例倾斜却愈发明显了。2012年中国烟民中女性只占约4%，相比之下1980年的女性烟民比例约为8%。女性独立和经济状况的改善并没有导致更多的中国——乃至整个亚洲——女性开始吸烟，肺健基金会的麦凯对此表示“费解”，毕竟这些因素在西方是和女性烟民的增加相联系的。
“It’s been surprising,” said Dr. Mackay. “But we are very thankful for that surprise.”
“这是出乎意料的，”麦凯说。“但是我们对这个意外感到欣慰。”