China has the world’s biggest diabetes epidemic, and it continues to get worse, according to the latest study of the disease’s devastating effects on the world’s most populous country, which has risen from poverty to become an economic superpower in 30 years.
一项最新研究显示，中国的糖尿病患病率居于世界首位，而且还在继续恶化。中国是世界上人口最多的国家，在30年里从贫困中崛起为一个超级经济大国。该研究调查了糖尿病对中国造成的灾难性影响。
Previous studies had found rapidly rising rates of the disease, and the newest, published last week by The Journal of the American Medical Association, shows that China has just passed the United States: 11.6 percent of Chinese adults have the disease, compared with 11.3 percent here; in 1980, prevalence was below 1 percent.
之前的研究发现，糖尿病患病率正在迅速提高，上周发表于《美国医学会杂志》(Journal of the American Medical Association)的前述最新研究则表明，中国的糖尿病患病率刚刚超过了美国：11.6%的中国成年人患有这种病，美国为11.3%。1980年，中国的糖尿病患病率还不到1%。
The total — 114 million people — means China has about a third of the world’s diabetes sufferers, who are at greater risk of heart disease, stroke and kidney failure. That will put enormous strain on the country’s public health system, the authors said.
中国糖尿病患者总人数达1.14亿，也就是说，全球大约三分之一的糖尿病患者都在中国。糖尿病会增大患者罹患心脏疾病、中风和肾功能衰竭的风险。文章的作者说，这会给中国的公共健康系统带来巨大压力。
Perhaps even more alarming, the study, which involved testing almost 99,000 people, found that half had “prediabetic” blood glucose levels.
或许更让人忧虑的是，这项研究对将近9.9万人进行了测试，发现有一半的人血糖达到了“糖尿病前期”水平。
For unknown reasons, weight gain leads to Type 2 diabetes in Asians at even lower body-mass indexes than it does in whites or blacks.  The average body mass index in the study was 23.7, which is considered normal.
由于不明原因，跟白人或黑人相比，亚洲人体重增加到更低的身体质量指数(BMI)时就可以导致2型糖尿病。本项研究测得的BMI平均为23.7，这个数值通常被认为是正常的。
But obesity is increasing rapidly in China. Experts have blamed many factors: the introduction of high-calorie Western diets and fast food, more travel by car, sedentary factory jobs replacing farm labor, and families who spoil the one child that most are allowed to have.
但是，中国的肥胖问题正在迅速加剧，专家们将它归咎于很多因素：引入高热量的西方饮食和快餐；人们驾车出行的时候更多；久坐不动的工厂工作代替了农场里的劳动；大多数中国家庭都只能有一个孩子，导致长辈对独生子女娇生惯养。