HONG KONG — Chinese lending unexpectedly and drastically slowed in July to the lowest level since the depths of the global financial crisis, with a weak property market appearing to drive down demand for new loans despite recent moves to ease credit.
香港——中国的贷款在7月份意外地大幅度放缓，降至全球金融危机深渊之后的最低水平，尽管最近采取措施放松信贷，但房地产市场的疲软看来正在压低对新贷款的需求。
A broad measure of new credit was 273.1 billion renminbi, or $44.3 billion, in July, the central bank reported on its website Wednesday. That is the lowest monthly total since October 2008, the month before China announced a huge stimulus program that was seen as key to China’s success in avoiding the deep recessions experienced in the United States and Europe.
中国央行周三在其网站上发布报告称，7月份社会融资规模为2731亿元。这是自2008年10月以来最低的月度总额，中国在那年9月宣布了一项巨额的经济刺激计划，被认为是让中国成功避免了美国和欧洲经历的深度衰退的关键。
In an unusual step, the People’s Bank of China issued a separate statement that offered some explanations for the weakness of the July credit figures, citing better supervision of the so-called shadow lending sector, a natural slowdown after strong credit expansion in June of almost 2 trillion renminbi and "adjustments" in the property sector. The central bank also said that in early August, new lending was averaging between 30 billion renminbi and 50 billion renminbi a day. That is a pace that, if maintained, would bring a strong rebound in August. Credit would “maintain steady growth,” the bank said. Economists had forecast far higher levels of new credit, which China officially labels as “social financing” and includes all nongovernment borrowing from banks, bond markets, trusts and other sources. Standard Chartered Bank estimated new lending would be more than five times as high as the actual figure. Another measure, new local-currency loans, came in at 385.2 billion renminbi in July, about half of the projected amount and the lowest monthly total since December 2009, when the People’s Bank of China was reining in the huge surge in credit that was part of the stimulus.
中国人民银行还作出一个不寻常的举动，另行发布一份声明，为7月份的疲软信贷数据作了些解释，提到的原因包括对所谓的影子放贷机构的更好监管，还有6月份新增贷款大幅增长到1.08万亿元后的自然回落，以及房地产行业的“调整”。央行还表示，8月上旬的贷款增量基本保持在每天300亿元到500亿元的水平。如果能够保持这种增长速度的话，8月份的贷款会出现强劲反弹。央行表示，信贷将“保持平稳增长态势”。经济学家此前对新增信贷的预测远高于这个水平，中国官方称这种信贷为“社会融资”，包括所有银行、债券市场、信托和其他来源的非政府借贷。渣打银行估计的7月份新增贷款是实际数字的5倍以上。另一个数据是7月份的人民币贷款增加额为3852亿元，比预期低大约一半，是2009年12月以来最低的月度总额，当时中国人民银行在控制经济刺激计划造成的信贷剧烈增长。
"Today’s monetary data should not be viewed lightly," Liu Li-Gang and Zhou Hao, economists with the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, said in a note. “It means that the financial system is engaging a rapid de-leveraging process, which could have significant repercussions on the real economy.” The weak lending figures came after the country’s economy gained some momentum in the second quarter, growing at 7.5 percent from the year-earlier period, a slight increase from the 7.4 percent growth in the first quarter. In June, the central bank lowered the amount of funds some regional banks had to keep as reserves, freeing them to lend more money. Still, those figures are far less than the double-digit gains routinely posted during the past three decades, and the lending figures released Wednesday point to further weakness.
“对今天公布的金融数据不能掉以轻心，”澳新银行(Australia and New Zealand Banking Group)经济师刘利刚和周皓在一份简报中写道。“这意味着金融系统正处于一个快速去杠杆化的过程，这可能会对实体经济产生重大影响。”疲软的贷款数据公布之前，有数据表示中国经济在第二季度呈稍好势头，比去年同期增长了7.5%，这比第一季度7.4%的增长略有上升。6月份，央行下调了一些地区性银行必须保持的储备金额度，让他们能发放更多的贷款。尽管如此，这些数字都远比过去三十年经常公布的两位数的增长率低得多，周三发布的贷款数据表明经济进一步疲软。
Mr. Liu and Mr. Zhou, the ANZ economists, said that the weak credit numbers made it “imminent” that the People’s Bank of China would lower the so-called required reserve ratio for banks to lift confidence. The figures may reflect continued softness in the country’s big residential property market, which drives demand for items as varied as cement and household appliances. Last year economists at the British bank HSBC estimated the total value of housing stock in China to be about 3.3 times annual gross domestic product, or more than $30 trillion. Prices for new homes declined in May and June, and home sales and residential construction fell in the first half of the year. Developers, who for years strove to avoid lowering prices, are increasingly doing so to clear unsold inventory caused by a property investment boom that resulted in empty apartment blocks in cities across China. The slowdown in lending dovetailed with other Chinese economic figures released Wednesday that suggest the economy is losing steam.
澳新银行经济师刘利刚和周皓表示，疲软的信贷数字让中国人民银行为提高信心而采取降低银行的所谓存款准备金率的措施“迫在眉睫”。这些数字可能反映了国内巨大的住宅物业市场的持续疲软，这个市场推动着从水泥到家电等不同需求。去年，英国汇丰银行的经济学家估计，中国住宅存量的总价值约是全年国内生产总值(GDP)的3.3倍，在30万亿美元（相当于185万亿元人民币）以上。新房价格在5月份和6月份都有所下降，住房销售和住宅建设在今年上半年有所放缓。开发商们多年一直努力不让房价降低，但如今正越来越多地这样做，以减少尚未售出的存房，房地产投资热潮导致了全国城市中成片的空置公寓楼。贷款增长放缓与周三公布其他中国经济数据相吻合，这些数据都暗示经济正在失去动力。
For example, fixed-asset investment, excluding rural households, rose 17 percent in the first seven months of the year, the slowest pace since 2001, according to figures from Bloomberg. Factory production slowed to a 9 percent gain in July from 9.2 percent in June, and retail sales growth was slightly below expectations.
比如，不包括农户的固定资产投资在今年头7个月增长17%，据来自彭博社的数据，这是2001年以来最低的长速。7月份的工业产出增长率放缓至9%，低于6月份的9.2%。零售销售增长也略低于预期。