China’s slowing growth and sputtering industrial output have helped fuel a global fall in stock prices this year. Economists are divided on whether ballooning debt in the world’s second-biggest economy will trigger a full-blown financial crisis or whether China, as it has time and again, will manage to defy the pessimists and continue to outgrow its neighbors.
中国经济增长速度的放缓以及工业产出的下降已经导致今年全球股价的下跌。经济学家对中国的未来有两种看法，一种观点认为这个世界第二大经济体中不断膨胀的债务或许会引发一场全面的金融危机，而另一种看法则认为中国或许会像过去一样，再次推翻悲观者的观点，继续保持超越邻国的增长速度。
In the search for answers, here is one figure to watch: the price China Development Bank pays to borrow money.
为了寻找答案，值得关注这里的一个数据：国家开发银行借钱所支付的价格。
China Development Bank is the biggest policy bank in the world, with a loan book of more than $1 trillion that makes the World Bank look like an also-ran. It lends hundreds of billions of dollars across the globe, from Venezuela to Myanmar. But by far its biggest customers are at home, the focus of three-quarters of its lending.
国家开发银行是世界上最大的政策性银行，其贷款账面总值超过1万亿美元（约合6万亿元人民币），让世界银行(World Bank)相形见绌。国家开发银行将上千亿美元的贷款发放到从委内瑞拉到缅甸的世界各地。但其发放给国内客户的贷款远远超过其国际客户的，占其总贷款金额的四分之三。
In 1998, it devised a system to bypass national controls on local government borrowing, giving officials the means to use state land holdings to help pay for roads, apartments, bridges and, in Chairman Mao Zedong’s home province of Hunan, an extravagant sports stadium complex. The result: lots of new infrastructure but also trillions of dollars in new government debt.
1998年，国家开发银行想出了一个绕过中央政府对地方政府借贷控制的招数，给地方官员提供了用国有土地持有权换取贷款的手段，来支付修建公路、公寓楼、桥梁，以及在毛泽东的故乡湖南修建一座豪华运动设施的费用。结果是：建成了很多新的基础设置，但也导致了几万亿美元的政府新债。
Now local governments — whose spending is credited with boosting China’s economy during the global financial crisis — may have to pay a lot more to borrow money. That’s because their biggest banker’s own borrowing costs are soaring.
人们把中国在全球金融危机期间的经济增长归功于地方政府的开支。现在，地方政府借贷可能需要支付更高的价钱，因为它们的最大银行家本身的借贷成本在飙升。
China Development Bank — 100 percent owned by the state — is not like an ordinary Chinese bank. Like the United States home lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, it is mostly bond financed. The other big Chinese banks enjoy cheap funds from industrious Chinese savers, paying deposit rates that have not changed in more than a year and a half.
国家开发银行100%由国家拥有，它与中国的普通银行不同。与美国的房地产贷款机构房利美(Fannie Mae)和房地美(Freddie Mac)一样，国家开发银行主要是靠债券融资。其他的中国大型银行则得益于勤劳的中国储户的廉价储蓄，这些银行支付的存款利率在过去一年半多的时间里都没有变化。
Meanwhile, yields on the bank’s long-term yuan-denominated bonds — the bedrock of local-government financing — have soared about 50 percent in the past year, from about 4 percent to almost 6 percent.
与此同时，开发银行的长期人民币债券的收益率在过去一年中增长了一半，从约4%上涨到几乎6%，人民币债券是地方政府融资的根基。
That is good and bad, depending on where you sit. Economists and planners in Beijing keen to wean China off of infrastructure-fueled growth and toward something more sustainable can take solace in the fact that now some of the riskiest state-backed lending may get curbed. On the other hand, should the bank’s borrowing costs stay high and if it were to pass on its costs to its customers, it may send shock waves through the economy.
这是好是坏，取决于你所在的位置。经济学家和北京的规划者急切想让中国脱离靠基础设施带动增长的模式，向更可持续的模式转型，这些人会感到欣慰，因为一些风险最高的银行借贷可能会因此得到控制。另一方面，如果开发银行的借贷成本高居不下，并将成本转移到其客户身上的话，就可能会冲击整个经济体系。
“A 50 percent interest rate shock for borrowers who already had weak cash flows is not a good thing,’’ said Stephen Andrews, a banking analyst at UBS in Hong Kong. Mr. Andrews said he does not expect the development bank to pass on all of its increased costs to its customers.
瑞银(UBS)驻香港办事处的银行分析师史蒂芬·安德鲁斯(Stephen Andrews)说，“对现金周转不佳的借贷者来说，50%的利率冲击不是件好事。”安德鲁斯说，他预计开发银行不会将自己增加的成本全部转移给客户。
Still, there is some evidence that is happening. Last month the bank was the underwriter of a bond sale for one of its primary customers, the state-run highway builder in western China’s Gansu Province. The company offered to pay an interest rate of 7.3 percent. Two years earlier, a bond of the same maturity by the Gansu company carried a 5.77 percent rate.
然而，一些证据表明这正在发生。上月，该银行为其主要客户之一、甘肃省的国有企业高速公路公司出售债券做了担保。该公司表示将支付7.3%的利率。两年前，甘肃省的这家公司为同样期限的债券支付的利率是5.77%。
What is a mystery to Mr. Andrews of UBS is why China Development Bank has to pay so much more to borrow money when the main buyers of its bonds are state-owned banks. What is not a mystery is that the bank’s costs started rising in the middle of last year. That coincided with a liquidity crunch in China, but was also weeks after the development bank’s long-serving chairman, Chen Yuan, stepped down.
让瑞银的安德鲁斯不解的是，国家开发银行为什么需要出如此高价来借钱，因为其债券的主要买家是国有银行。但显而易见的是，该银行的借贷成本是从去年中旬开始上升的，恰好是在中国出现的一次流动性紧缩的同时，而且在借贷成本上升的几周前，长期担任开发银行行长的陈元离了职。
No one at China Development Bank’s media office in Beijing answered the phone when called Friday.
周五打给国家开发银行北京宣传部的电话无人接听。