One Chase Manhattan Plaza, the 60-story office tower that has been home to one of New York City’s most important banks for half a century, has a new owner: Fosun International of China.
半个世纪里，60层的办公楼第一大通曼哈顿广场(One Chase Manhattan Plaza)一直是纽约市最重要的一家银行的所在地。如今它有了一位新主人：中国的复星国际。
Fosun, which is owned by Guo Guangchang, a billionaire, outmaneuvered half a dozen bidders for the 2.2 million-square-foot building, with an offer of $725 million.
复星的所有者是亿万富翁郭广昌，他用7.25亿美元（约合44亿人民币）打败六家投标者，获得了这栋220万平方英尺（约合20.4万平方米）的大楼。
The company signed a purchase contract on Thursday and put down a 10 percent, nonrefundable deposit on the deal.
周四，公司签署购买合约，支付了不可退还的10%定金。
Although other bidders for the property envisioned converting the tower to condominiums and a hotel, real estate executives say that Fosun wants 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza to remain an office building. The company may be bringing in several Chinese companies as tenants and plans to expand and enhance the retail space at the base of the building, the executives said.
虽然这栋房产的其他投标人希望能把这栋大楼变成有独立产权的公寓和酒店，但一些房产业高管称，复星希望继续把第一大通曼哈顿广场用作写字楼。这些高管说，公司可能会把大楼租给几家中国公司，并打算扩展大楼底商用于零售的空间。
Darcy A. Stacom, a broker for CBRE, which marketed the building for the owner, JPMorgan Chase, said the deal was “great for downtown,” and illustrated that many of the improvements made downtown since the 2001 terrorist attack were paying off.
房地产服务公司世邦魏理仕(CBRE)是原业主摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)的销售代理，该公司的经纪人达西·A·斯塔肯(Darcy A. Stacom)说，这项交易“对市中心来说非常棒”，还列举了2001年9·11恐怖袭击之后市中心完成的很多改善工作。
Chase issued a statement on Friday saying it was pleased with the deal. “We’ll continue to maintain a strong presence downtown and throughout New York City, where we’ll remain for years to come.”
摩根大通周五发表声明称，该公司对这笔交易非常满意。“今后数年，我们将继续在纽约市中心及整个城市保持强势存在。”
The bank plans to move about 4,000 employees to other locations but to keep its large branch office at the base of the tower, as well as some office space above, according to bank officials. Within a year, about 70 percent of the building will be vacant.
据银行管理人员透露，该银行计划将大约4000名员工转移到其他地方，但仍保留大楼底层的大型分支机构，以及上面的一些办公空间。他们将在一年内腾空大约70%的空间。
Developers like Tishman Speyer, Related Companies and Hines have been active builders in China for years. Now, Chinese companies are actively buying real estate in the United States.
多年来，铁狮门(Tishman Speyer)、关联公司(Related Companies)及汉斯公司(Hines)等房地产开发公司一直在积极开拓中国建筑市场。如今，中国公司则在美国积极购买房地产。
SOHO China, a developer, and a Brazilian billionaire recently partnered to buy a 40 percent stake in the General Motors Building in Midtown Manhattan, while the Greenland Holding Group, a state-owned developer based in Shanghai, agreed to buy a 70 percent stake in the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn.
开发商SOHO中国和一名巴西亿万富翁最近合伙收购了曼哈顿中城通用汽车大楼(General Motors Building)40%的股权，而总部位于上海的国有房地产开发公司——绿地控股集团——已经同意购买布鲁克林大西洋院(Atlantic Yards)建筑项目70%的股权。