HONG KONG — Government investigators in China have found the Mercedes-Benz unit of Daimler, the German automaker, in violation of antitrust price rules, the Chinese state news media reported on Monday. The announcement was the latest in a spate of inquiries over pricing and sales policies that have raised pressure on foreign corporations across China.
香港——中国官方媒体周一报道，政府调查机构发现，德国汽车生产商戴姆勒(Daimler)旗下的梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)违反了反价格垄断的规定。中国近期开展了一系列针对定价及销售政策的调查，致使全国各地的外企面临压力，而上述公告是其中最新一例。
The price bureau of Jiangsu Province, adjacent to Shanghai, concluded that prices for parts and maintenance for Mercedes vehicles had been set at exorbitant levels that violated China’s antimonopoly law, the China News Service, a state-run agency, reported, citing an official from the bureau.
官方媒体中国新闻社援引江苏省物价局官员的话报道，该局断定，奔驰汽车的零部件价格和维修保养价格定价过高，违反了中国的反垄断法。江苏毗邻上海。
The Jiangsu officials did not announce a fine against Mercedes or the distributors, and the decision does not apply nationwide. But the announcement added to a recent pattern in which carmakers come under antitrust investigation by local regulators, who publicize price-fixing accusations, followed in some cases by the companies cutting prices nationwide. Last week, investigators in Hubei Province in central China announced fines against BMW dealers for illegal pricing, and Daimler’s officers in Shanghai were searched by officials this month.
江苏省官员没有宣布对奔驰或其经销商进行罚款，这一裁定也并不适用于全国。不过，本次公告遵循了近期的模式：地方监管部门对汽车生产商提出价格垄断指控并予以宣传，在某些情况下，接受反垄断调查的公司继而在全国范围内降价。上周，华中地区湖北省的调查机构宣布，宝马(BMW)经销商存在非法定价行为，并对其处以罚款。在上海工作的一些戴姆勒高管则于本月遭到官方的搜查。
Daimler said two weeks ago that it would cut the price of Mercedes repair parts in China by an average of 15 percent “in response to antimonopoly investigations into the automobile industry” by the National Development and Reform Commission, the central government agency backing many of the local inquiries.
戴姆勒公司在两周之前表示，公司会将中国市场的奔驰零配件价格平均降低15%，以回应国家发展和改革委员会“对汽车产业的反垄断调查”。很多的地方性调查都是在该中央政府机构的支持下开展的。
Unlike other recent official inquiries, this one in Jiangsu gave some details of the accusations against Mercedes distributors and sales management.
与最近的其他官方调查不同，江苏省这次提供了针对奔驰经销商及销售管理的指控的一些细节。
“The Mercedes-Benz case is a classic case of a vertical price monopoly, exploiting its dominant position to impose controls on the price for parts and maintenance in the downstream post-sale market,” Zhou Gao, the official from the price bureau, said on Sunday, according to the China News Service. Many imported cars and parts are sold in China at prices many times higher than in other markets, he said.
中新社报道，江苏省物价局官员周高在周日表示，“奔驰案是典型的纵向价格垄断，即利用自身主导地位，对下游售后市场的零部件价格以及维护保养价格进行控制。”他还说，中国市场中很多进口车的整车和零部件售价远高于其他市场。
“This is an utterly abnormal phenomenon,” the report quoted Mr. Zhou as saying.
文中援引周高的话称，“这是极不正常的现象。”
In response to the announcement, Senol Bayrak, a company spokesman in Beijing, issued an email saying, “As stated earlier, we are assisting the authorities in their investigation.”
为了回应上述公告，戴姆勒驻北京的发言人赛诺尔·巴伊拉克(Senol Bayrak)通过电子邮件表示，“如前所述，我们正在协助相关机构进行调查。”
But the Jiangsu price agency said its case remained firm. It said the individual parts for a C-Class Mercedes sedan were sold at prices 12 times as high as the parts cost in a new sedan bought whole, a claim also made by the Insurance Association of China, and the China Auto Maintenance and Repair Trade Association. But that comparison did not take into account the high taxes China places on cars, especially imports. Two Mercedes dealers contacted in Jiangsu said they sold Mercedes C-Class sedans after tax for about 350,000 to 542,000 renminbi, or $57,000 to $88,000, depending on the model and extras.
江苏省物价局表示，本案证据非常充分。该机构称，一辆C级奔驰轿车零部件的价格能买12辆整车。中国保险行业协会和中国汽车维修行业协会也提出了同样的说法。不过，上述零整比没有考虑中国对汽车征收的高额税费，尤其是针对进口车辆的征税。记者联系到的江苏省的两家奔驰经销商称，其销售的C级奔驰车的税后价格大约在35万到54.2万元人民币之间，具体售价取决于车型和配置。
If any fines or other penalties are lodged in the Mercedes case, Daimler could appeal through administrative review procedures. But such an appeal would be highly unusual among foreign multinationals, which were wary of goading Chinese regulators.
如果奔驰的案子引发了罚款或其他处罚，戴姆勒可以申请行政复议。但外资跨国企业极少提出这种申请，因为担心刺激中国的监管机构。
Last week, General Motors said Chinese officials had approached it about an antitrust inquiry, and Audi, a subsidiary of Volkswagen, said investigators in Hubei Province had concluded that its dealers there violated pricing rules. Microsoft, Qualcomm, Accenture and six makers of infant formula have also come under investigation in the last year.
上周，通用汽车(General Motors)称，中国官员已就反垄断调查事宜接触该公司，而大众(Volkswagen)的子公司奥迪(Audi)称，湖北省的调查人员已经认定，其经销商违反了定价方面的规定。微软(Microsoft)、高通(Qualcomm)、埃森哲(Accenture)以及六家婴儿配方奶粉生产商去年都接受了调查。
Some groups and experts have criticized the antitrust investigations. Last week, the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China said that it had “received numerous alarming anecdotal accounts from a number of sectors that administrative intimidation tactics are being used to impel companies to accept punishments and remedies without full hearings.”
一些机构和专家对这些反垄断调查进行了质疑。上星期，中国欧盟商会(European Union Chamber of Commerce in China)表示，“收到了来自数个行业的大量令人不安的报告，称在未进行充分听证的前提下，遭到带有恐吓性质的行政手段的胁迫，以迫使企业接受惩罚和补偿。”
“Practices such as informing companies not to challenge the investigations, bring lawyers to hearings or involve their respective governments or chambers of commerce are contrary to best practices,” the chamber said.
“要求企业不要对调查提出异议、不要带律师前往听证会、也不要让其政府或商会出手干预，种种做法与最佳实践背道而驰，”中国欧盟商会称。
The chamber said that although Chinese companies had also come under scrutiny, “the European business community is also increasingly considering the question of whether foreign companies are being disproportionately targeted.”
商会还表示，尽管中国企业也受到了审视，“但欧洲企业界日益怀疑，中国当局是否格外针对外资企业”。