HONG KONG — Lexmark, the printing and software company, agreed Wednesday to be sold to a consortium led by Apex Technology of China and PAG Asia Capital, a private equity firm, for $3.6 billion, including debt.
香港——打印技术与软件公司利盟(Lexmark)周三达成协议，以36亿美元的价格（包含债务），将公司出售给一个由中国的艾派克科技和私募公司太盟投资集团(PAG Asia Capital)牵头的财团。
Lexmark had been looking into strategic alternatives for a while. The consortium buying it, which also includes Legend Capital Management, a venture capital firm, will pay $40.50 a share in an all-cash transaction. Lexmark said the deal represented a 30 percent premium to its closing price on Oct. 21, when it became known that the company was looking into its options.
利盟考虑战略性选择已经有一段时间。收购它的财团包括风投公司联想投资管理。收购将以全现金方式进行，报价每股40.50美元。利盟表示，该价格比去年10月21日的收盘价溢价30%，该公司在这一天宣布正在考虑各种选择。
Lexmark said the deal would allow it to expand in Asia.
利盟表示，这项交易将帮助其在亚洲扩张。
“With the Consortium’s resources, we will be able to continue to invest in and grow the business to more fully penetrate the Asia Pacific market for hardware, software and managed print services,” Paul Rooke, Lexmark’s chairman and chief executive, said in a news release.
“有了该财团的资源，我们就能够持续投入，发展业务，对亚太硬件、软件和打印管理服务市场进行更加全面的渗透，”利盟董事长兼首席执行官保罗·鲁克(Paul Rooke)在新闻稿中表示。
Jackson Wang, the chairman of Apex, added that the two businesses were likely to be complementary, as Apex manufactures parts for ink cartridges. “Apex has traditionally been successful in emerging markets and in cost-effective production,” Mr. Wang said in a news release. “We are excited to work alongside Lexmark as they continue to invest in advanced technologies and solutions to best serve their customers and business partners, while simultaneously pursuing untapped opportunities in emerging markets particularly in Asia for future growth.”
艾派克董事长汪东颖(Jackson Wang)称，两家公司很可能会产生互补效应，因为艾派克是墨盒部件生产商。“艾派克在新兴市场、在经济高效的生产上一直表现出色，”汪东颖在另一份新闻稿中表示。“我们很高兴与利盟合作，他们将继续开发先进的技术和解决方案，更好地为他们的客户和业务合作伙伴服务，同时也在新兴市场，特别是亚洲市场，开发潜在机会，促进未来发展。”
Lexmark said that it intended to keep its company headquarters in Lexington, Ky., and that Mr. Rooke would remain in his current role. Shares rose about 11 percent in after-hours trading.
利盟表示，公司打算保留肯塔基州列克星敦的总部，鲁克也将继续担任目前的职位。利盟股价在盘后交易中飙升11%。
The deal continues a stream of prolific deal making among Chinese companies, including the sale of the technology distributor Ingram Micro for $6 billion to Tianjin Tianhai, a Chinese shipping group. Some deals, like the attempts to buy Fairchild Semiconductor and Starwood Hotels, have fallen apart, but China has still been racking up acquisitions. Outbound deals from China were worth $92.2 billion in the first quarter of this year, compared with $106 billion in the first quarter of 2015, according to Dealogic.
这桩交易延续了中国公司大肆并购境外公司的势头，比如来自中国的航运集团天津天海斥资60亿美元收购技术分销商英迈(Ingram Micro)。一些交易尝试未能成功，比如收购仙童半导体公司(Fairchild Semiconductor)和喜达屋(Starwood Hotels)，但中国的境外并购势头仍在持续。Dealogic的数据显示，今年第一季度，中国境外并购交易总值达922亿美元，而2015年全年的数据为1060亿美元。
Lexmark’s board has approved the transaction, but it is still subject to shareholder and regulatory approval from agencies including the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The deal is expected to close in the second half of 2016.
利盟董事会已批准交易，但仍然需要通过股东及美国外国投资委员会(Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States)等监管机构。该交易预计将在2016年下半年完成。
Moelis & Company acted as financial adviser for the consortium, while Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom acted as legal counsel. Lexmark was advised by Goldman Sachs and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
在这宗交易中，该财团的财务顾问是美驰公司(Moelis & Company)，法律顾问为世达律师事务所(Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom)。利盟的顾问则是高盛(Goldman Sachs)和Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz律师事务所。