BEIJING — To Germans, he was the mysterious “refugee who wasn’t,” a 30-year-old man from Jilin Province in China who somehow got mistaken for a refugee and was swept up into Germany’s vast processing system for two weeks.
北京——对德国人来说，30岁的他是那个神秘的“不是难民的难民”。这个中国吉林人阴差阳错下被误认为是一名难民，在庞大的德国难民审核系统里待了两个星期。
That fate befell him even after German officials discovered — with the aid of a local Chinese restaurant worker and a translation app — that the man was not applying for asylum, but instead hoped to roam Europe as a tourist.
甚至在这命运降临到他头上之前，德国官员就已经在当地一家中餐馆和一款翻译应用的帮助下发现，这名男子并未申请避难，只是希望以游客的身份畅游欧洲。
On social media on Tuesday, Chinese commenters highlighted what they viewed as either the courage or the naïveté of their fellow citizen, who apparently traveled alone to Europe speaking only Mandarin. Others felt that the man, still unidentified, secretly intended to emigrate.
周二的社交媒体上，中国评论人士关注的是，这位只会说普通话却只身前往欧洲的同胞要么是勇敢，要么是幼稚。还有一些人则认为，身份依然不明的这名男子暗地里是想移民。
The man’s odyssey apparently began at the Stuttgart airport on July 4. There, said Christoph Schlütermann, the German Red Cross official who eventually unraveled the mystery, he had been robbed of his wallet. He turned to airport police officers for help, but with the language barrier they evidently mistook him for someone seeking asylum, Mr. Schlütermann said.
这名男子的艰苦跋涉似乎始于斯图加特机场，时间是7月4日。最终解开谜团的德国红十字会(German Red Cross)官员克里斯托夫·施吕特曼(Christoph Schlütermann)表示，这名男子在机场被抢了钱包。施吕特曼称他曾向机场警察求助，但因为语言障碍，他们显然误以为他是要寻求避难。
As is routine for asylum seekers, he was taken to a processing center — in this case in Heidelberg, normally a popular Chinese tourist destination. From there, he was sent to another refugee reception center in Dortmund, and from there to the Westphalian town of Dülmen. Mr. Schlütermann, who runs the former British Army base there with beds for about 200 refugees, said the man arrived there July 8.
作为针对寻求避难者的常规程序，他被带去位于海德堡的一个办理中心，那里通常是颇受中国游客欢迎的目的地。之后他又被送去多特蒙德的另一个难民接待中心，再从那里被送往威斯特伐利亚的迪尔门市。在那里有一个前身为英国陆军基地的设施，为大约200名难民提供了床位，在该设施担任负责人的施吕特曼说，这名男子是7月8日抵达的。
A colleague alerted Mr. Schlütermann to what he believed was the traveler’s odd behavior. “Something is wrong,” the assistant told his boss.
一名同事认为该男子行为古怪，并提醒施吕特曼注意。“这里面有问题，”这名助手对他的上司说。
Eventually, the Red Cross enlisted a translation app and the help of an employee from a nearby Chinese restaurant and discovered the error, Mr. Schlütermann said.
施吕特曼说，最后红十字会得到了一款翻译应用，在附近一家中餐馆的一名员工的帮助下，他们发现了错误。
It took several more days of calling consulates, embassies and German functionaries to recover the man’s passport. He eventually left Dülmen on July 20, apparently headed for his original destinations in France and Italy.
接下来用了几天时间致电使领馆和德国官员，取回了这名男子的护照。他最终于7月20日离开迪尔门，似乎是要前往最初的目的地法国和意大利。
On Monday, the local newspaper Dülmener Zeitung ran an article under the headline, “The Refugee Who Wasn’t.” German national news media followed suit.
周一，当地报纸《迪尔门报》(Dülmener Zeitung)刊登了一篇题为《不是难民的难民》的报道。随后，德国的全国性新闻媒体也纷纷进行报道。
There was still no official confirmation of the tale by Tuesday. Calls to the Chinese Embassy in Berlin and the Chinese consulate in Düsseldorf yielded no more information about the man or his ordeal.
截至周二，这个故事依然未正式得到证实。本报致电柏林的中国大使馆和杜塞尔多夫的中国领事馆，但未能获得更多有关这名男子或其经历的信息。
But one thing was certain: The mystery traveler lit up Chinese social media.
但有一点是肯定的：这名神秘旅客点燃了中国的社交媒体。
“To dare to travel independently unable to communicate, respect for this brave man,” wrote MiaIsNotMiao on Weibo, a popular Twitter-like social media site.
“语言不通还敢一个人自由行，我敬他是条汉子，”名为“MiaIsNotMiao”的用户在新浪微博上写道。新浪微博是一个颇受欢迎的社交网站，和Twitter类似。
“Was it on purpose? A shortcut to immigration?” asked Susan6046.
“是故意的吗？移民捷径？”用户名为“Susan6046”的微博用户问道。
An internet meme even sprang up, showing a hapless-looking Chinese man in a panda bear costume and the words: “Do you … have a quota … or not?”
网上甚至还出现了一幅爆红的图片，上面是一名看上去一脸不幸的中国男子，穿着熊猫服，旁边写着：“你们……有没有……难民名额了？”
While in Dülmen, the man received food and drink, a place to sleep and 31.5 euros, about $35, in pocket money, Mr. Schlütermann said. That is standard treatment for asylum applicants arriving in Germany, which has taken in more than one million migrants over the past year and a half.
施吕特曼表示，在迪尔门期间，这名男子得到了食物、水、睡觉的地方和31.5欧元（约合230元人民币）零花钱。这是抵达德国的避难申请者的标准待遇。过去一年半里，德国接收了100多万移民。
On Weibo, some people expressed sympathy for the mystery man. Others were less understanding.
在新浪微博上，一些人表示了对这名神秘男子的同情。有些人则没那么体量他。
“What is eating, drinking, getting money for free, and being served?” Zhuangzhuangyi wrote. “Didn’t he have a good time?”
“什么能白吃白喝白拿钱，还有人服侍？”名为“庄在意”的用户写道。“他过得不好吗？”