BEIJING — A Chinese collector bought a Ming dynasty silk wall hanging for $45 million at a Christie’s auction in Hong Kong on Wednesday, setting a record for a Chinese artwork sold at international auction.
北京——周三，一名中国收藏家在佳士得(Christie’s)的香港拍卖会上以3.48亿港元（约合2.8亿元人民币）拍得一幅丝质挂件，创下了单件中国艺术品在国际拍卖会中的成交价纪录。
The price that the collector, Liu Yiqian, agreed to pay for the intricately embroidered 600-year-old hanging, called a thangka, was reached after an intense 22-minute competition that came down to two telephone bidders: Mr. Liu, a Shanghai-based billionaire financier, who was represented by Jinqing Cai, president of Christie’s China, and an international bidder, who was represented by François Curiel, the chairman of Christie’s Asia Pacific. The final price included Christie’s buyer’s premium of $5 million.
这位收藏家名叫刘益谦，在经过22分钟的紧张竞拍后，终于成交。他拍下的这件作品是一幅拥有600年历史的唐卡，其刺绣工艺十分复杂。到竞拍的最后阶段，只有通过电话参与的两名买家还在继续出价：一位是由佳士得中国执行董事蔡金青代表的从事金融业的上海亿万富翁刘益谦，另一位则是由佳士得亚太区主席高逸龙(François Curiel)代表的一名国际买家。3.48亿港元的最终价格包括佳士得买家需支付的3800万港元的佣金。
In a telephone interview, Mr. Liu said he was looking forward to bringing the rare 15th century piece back to China.
刘益谦在电话采访中表示，他很期待将这件罕见的15世纪作品带回中国。
“Before, our country wasn’t very strong or prosperous, so many things were lost to overseas buyers,” Mr. Liu said. “Now that we have accumulated wealth, we need to deepen our own cultural sophistication. So we are buying Western art, to say nothing of our own art.”
“我认为现在跟很多年前不一样，我们当年的国力不是很强，所以很多东西就流落到了海外，”刘益谦说。“我们现在有了财富，我们需要怎么样从文化程度来提高我们的修养呢？所以我们今天西方文化作品也在买，何况我们自己的文化。”
The thangka, which measures 84 by 132 inches, depicts Raktayamari, a meditational deity in Mahayana Buddhism, in an embrace with his consort, Vajravetali. Commissioned by Emperor Yongle in the early 15th century, the piece is thought to have been given as a gift in diplomatic exchanges with Tibet, according to Christie’s. While its early whereabouts remain unclear, it has been sold at auction several times in recent decades, most recently in 2002 when it went for about $4 million at a Christie’s sale in Hong Kong.
这幅唐卡长3.35米，宽2.13米，上面描绘的是红阎摩敌(Raktayamari)——大乘佛教中的禅定尊——与其明妃毘院利金刚(Vajravetali)相拥的场景。根据佳士得提供的信息，这幅作品由明朝永乐帝于15世纪初下令御制，应为与西藏进行交流时的赠礼。尽管这幅唐卡早年下落不明，但是近几十年来，它曾多次在拍卖会上亮相。最近一次是在2002年，它在佳士得的香港拍卖会上以3087万港元成交。
“The thangka embodies our flourishing civilization and culture from 600 years ago,” Mr. Liu said.
刘益谦说，“这幅唐卡体现了600年前灿烂的文明和文化。”
“It’s not a question of why I bought it, but when else would I have had the opportunity to buy it?” he added. “I feel like it’s good fortune even to just be able to see it.”
“所以这个不是说为什么要买，而是有没有机会看到这种东西，”他还说。“我认为能看到本身就是一个很好的福气了。”
Mr. Liu, a former taxi driver who built a fortune through stock trading in real estate and pharmaceuticals, and his wife, Wang Wei, are two of China’s biggest and most active art collectors. Much of the couple’s collection, made up of mostly traditional and contemporary Chinese art, is on display at their privately owned Long Museum, which has two locations in Shanghai. The thangka, Mr. Liu said, will also occasionally be put on display in the museums.
刘益谦曾经当过出租车司机，后来靠房地产和制药领域的股票交易积累了财富。他与妻子王薇已跻身中国最重要、最活跃的艺术品收藏家之列。夫妇二人的很多藏品在他们自己兴建的龙美术馆展出，其中大多是传统和当代的中国艺术品。这座美术馆在上海有两个展馆。刘益谦表示，这幅唐卡也会偶尔在龙美术馆里展出。