China has been scrambling to right its gargantuan processed-food ship ever since six infants died and thousands more were hospitalized with kidney damage in 2008 from milk adulterated with an industrial chemical.
2008年，六名婴儿因为食用掺入工业化学品的奶制品而死亡，另有数千名婴儿因此肾脏受损，入院治疗。从那以来，中国就一直在手忙脚乱地试图让规模庞大的食品加工业回到正规。
But as the latest scandal involving spoiled meat in fast-food shows, the attempted transformation over the last six years has run up against the country’s centuries-old and sprawling food supply chain.
但最近利用腐烂肉类制作快餐的丑闻显示出，过去六年的改革努力遭遇了一个难题——历史悠久且范围广阔的食品供应链。
From factory inspections to product recalls, laboratory testing to prosecutions, China’s emergent food-quality apparatus has turned into reform on the fly, with ever-changing threats and setbacks. Now, the growing presence of big American brands means that the country’s oversight efforts — and its most glaring lapses — are playing out on a global stage.
从工厂检验到产品召回、从实验室检测到起诉，中国新建立的食品质量体系开始了忙忙碌碌的改革工作，而改革面临着千变万化的威胁和阻碍。如今，由于出现了越来越多的美国大品牌，这意味着中国的监督工作，以及其最明显的失误，都将会搬上国际舞台。
Earlier this year, fox meat was found in packages sold by Walmart as “Five Spice” donkey meat, prompting a recall and the company’s pledge to triple its spending on food safety in China. Excessive amounts of antibiotics and hormones discovered in some chicken products sold by KFC in late 2012 led to calls for a consumer boycott; the company’s troubles deepened last year when nine deaths from avian flu raised public concern about chicken generally and depressed its sales.
今年早些时候，沃尔玛(Walmart)出售的包装“五香”驴肉被检测出狐狸肉成分，促使公司召回产品，该公司承诺将中国的食品安全开支增加两倍。2012年底，肯德基出售的一些鸡肉产品中，被检出过量抗生素和激素，导致人们呼吁消费者进行抵制；去年，禽流感致使九人死亡，引发了民众对鸡肉的普遍担忧，于是肯德基遭遇了更多麻烦，销售额也出现下降。
“The way I keep explaining China to people is that it’s kind of like the U.S. in the time of Upton Sinclair and ‘The Jungle,’ ” said Don Schaffner, a professor of food microbiology at Rutgers University and president of the International Association for Food Protection, referring to the 1906 novel that described unsanitary conditions in the meatpacking industry and inspired reform. “There is tremendous desire by the Chinese to get it right, but they have a long way to go.”
“我不断向人们解释说，中国有点像厄普顿·辛克莱(Upton Sinclair)在《屠场》(The Jungle)一书中描写的美国，”罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)食品微生物学教授、国际食品保护协会(International Association for Food Protection)主席唐·沙夫纳(Don Schaffner)说。“中国人深深地渴望它回到正轨，但他们还有很长的路要走。”沙夫纳提到的小说出版于1906年，书中描写了肉类加工业中不卫生条件，该书推动了改革。
The meat episode that started garnering widespread attention on Sunday ensnared a roster of American fast-food giants. It stemmed from a hidden-camera broadcast by Shanghai-based Dragon TV showing processing plant workers using out-of-date chicken and beef to make burger patties and chicken products. Meat that had dropped onto the floor was scooped up and tossed back into the processing machine, the news report showed.
周日开始受到广泛关注的肉类加工事件，涉及到很多美国快餐巨头。上海东方卫视利用隐藏摄像头拍摄到了加工厂工人利用过期鸡肉和牛肉制作汉堡肉饼和鸡肉产品的场景，随后在节目中播出。新闻报道显示，工人把掉到地上的肉捡起来，扔回加工机中。
Government investigators have since found that workers at the plant, Shanghai Husi Food, used expired or rotten meat to make Chicken McNuggets, beef patties and other food products totaling more than 5,000 boxes, the official news agency Xinhua reported. One hundred tons of meat products were seized, and on Wednesday police detained five people as part of their inquiry. The factory supplied McDonald’s, KFC and other fast-food restaurants in China, and is a subsidiary of the OSI Group, based in Aurora, Ill.
官方新闻社新华社报道，政府调查人员发现上海福喜食品公司(Shanghai Husi Food)加工厂的工人，利用过期甚至腐烂的肉类生产麦乐鸡块、牛肉饼及其他食品，产品共计5000多箱。被查获的肉类产品达到100吨，警方开展调查，并于周三拘留了五人。该工厂为麦当劳(McDonald’s)、肯德基(KFC)，以及中国的其他快餐店供应原料。上海福喜隶属于总部位于伊利诺伊州奥罗拉市的欧喜集团(OSI Group)。
Along with McDonald’s and KFC, the restaurants that have stopped obtaining supplies from Shanghai Husi include Burger King, Starbucks and the Papa John’s pizza chain. The factory had customers in Japan as well, including McDonald’s Holdings Japan, which said it had sourced about a fifth of its Chicken McNuggets from Shanghai Husi and stopped selling the product on Monday.
除了麦当劳和肯德基，汉堡王(Burger King)、星巴克(Starbucks)、披萨连锁店棒约翰(Papa John’s)等品牌也停止了从上海福喜采购原料。该工厂在日本也有客户，麦当劳日本控股公司(McDonald’s Holdings Japan)称，公司五分之一的麦乐鸡原料是由上海福喜提供的，公司已于周一停止出售麦乐鸡。
“Company management was appalled by the report and is dealing with the issue directly and quickly” through internal inquiry and cooperation with government investigators, OSI said in a statement. A company spokeswoman declined to answer questions.
欧喜集团发表声明称，“公司管理层对报道感到震惊，而且正在直接、迅速地”开展内部调查，配合政府调查人员的工作。公司的一名女发言人拒绝回答问题。
China is not alone in facing food-safety dangers. In the past week alone, a nationwide recall was issued for fruit from a California packing plant over concerns of possible contamination by the pathogen listeria, though with no illnesses as yet reported; the food company Sysco agreed to a $19.4 million settlement in California in connection with the storage of perishable food in unrefrigerated sheds; and Minnesota health officials investigated 13 cases of illness from the food-borne bacteria E coli.
中国并不是唯一面临食品安全威胁的国家。仅在上周，一家加利福尼亚的食品包装厂就因为担心食品受到李斯特菌污染，而在全国范围发布了召回令，不过目前尚未报告任何相关病例；在加州，食品公司西斯科(Sysco)因为未对容易腐败变质的食物进行冷藏，同意支付1940万美元（约合1.2亿元人民币）的和解金；明尼苏达州卫生官员对食源性大肠杆菌感染所引发的13个病例开展了调查。
Globally, millions of people fall ill every year from eating unsafe food, and the World Health Organization estimates that food- and waterborne diseases lead to about 2.2 million deaths annually.
从全球来看，每年都有数百万人因为吃了不安全的食物而生病，据世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)估计，通过食物和水传播的疾病每年会导致约220万人死亡。
But the oversight efforts are mixed in China. The country has banned or limited sales of imported American foods including pork, citing concerns about feed additives, even as it grapples with recent safety concerns over contaminants in an array of its domestically produced rice, bottled water and soy sauce.
但是，中国的监管工作有些混乱。中国禁止或限制了猪肉等美国进口食品的销售，理由是担心饲料添加剂，然而中国最近也在与食品安全问题作斗争——中国发生了一系列国产大米、瓶装水和酱油受污染的事件。
It is difficult to gauge just how much progress China is making given its still-nascent efforts to create a system of public health epidemiology that can trace food-borne illnesses back to their source, food safety experts said. By contrast, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States is viewed as having perhaps the world’s most vigorous food-borne illness detection system, which may account for much of the continuing product recalls and alerts involving American products.
食品安全专家称，很难评价中国究竟取得了多大进步，因为谈到建立一个公共卫生和传染病防控体系，做到能对食品安全问题追根溯源，中国还处于初期阶段。对比之下，美国疾病预防与控制中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）则被认为，拥有世界上最有力的食源性疾病监控体系，不断出现的与美国产品相关的召回和警告中，有很大一部分可以通过这一点来解释。
The varied and often-stomach-turning episodes in China, along with the growing number of American food companies operating there, have made it a focus of world attention and expert support in the efforts to build its food-quality protections. Events like the government-sponsored China International Food Safety and Quality Conference, which began eight years ago, have been drawing top American experts, from regulators to litigators, who say the challenge China faces is staggering.
中国的食品安全事件花样百出，而且往往令人反胃。此外，目前有越来越多的美国食品公司在中国开展经营，于是在建立食品质量保障机制的过程中，中国就成了世界关注和专家支持的焦点。始于八年前的中国国际食品安全与质量控制会议，以及其他由政府支持的活动，通常会吸引美国的顶级专家出席，其中包括监管者和律师。这些人都认为中国面临着巨大的挑战。
“Although China is by outward appearance an incredibly modern and vibrant society, it just doesn’t have a long history of regulatory control, of checks and balances, where somebody is making the decision, ‘If the meat falls on the floor, should I put it back in?’ ” said Bill Marler, a Seattle-based consumer lawyer who has attended the food safety conferences.
在西雅图工作的消费者维权律师比尔·马勒(Bill Marler)曾参加过上述食品安全会议。马勒说，“虽然从外表来看，中国是一个非常现代且充满生机的社会，但是它在监管力度、权力制衡方面没有太久的历史。总会有人做出这样的决定：‘如果肉掉到地上，我应不应该把它放回去？’ ”
Mr. Marler, a leading filer of food-borne illness lawsuits in the United States, cites the lack of a vigorous civil torts system in China as a major hindrance to its food-safety overhaul, arguing that big-dollar cases cause companies to change their ways. But the failings in China’s system range widely, observers said, and persist despite the 2009 update of its Food Hygiene Act with the far-more vigorous Food Safety Law.
在美国，马勒接手的涉及食品安全引发疾病的诉讼数量名列前茅。他认为，中国缺乏强有力的民事侵权体系的情况，是食品安全改革的一个重大阻碍，因为索赔高昂的案件会促使企业改变行为方式。但是观察者说，中国体系的缺陷多种多样，尽管2009年《食品卫生法》已经被更为有力的《食品安全法》取代。