SINGAPORE — China’s new development bank will strive to be corruption free, maintain environmentally sound policies and work with a streamlined bureaucracy, the interim head of the institution, Jin Liqun, said on Saturday.
新加坡——中国新成立的开发银行将努力杜绝腐败，坚持实施环保政策，保持机构精简，该银行多边临时秘书处秘书长金立群周六表示。
“We are committed to building a lean, clean and green bank,” Mr. Jin told the Singapore Forum, a gathering of Asian business and political leaders.
金立群在汇聚亚洲商界及政界领导人的新加坡论坛(Singapore Forum)上表示，“我们致力于建立精干、廉洁、绿色的银行。”
The bank, known as the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, will be run by a “core group of professionals,” and the top management will be appointed according to ability, not political connections, he said. There will be “zero tolerance” of corruption, he said.
他表示，亚洲基础设施投资银行（Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank，简称亚投行）将由“专业人士组成的核心团队”管理，高层管理人员将根据能力，而不是政治关系来任命。他表示，该银行会对腐败实行“零容忍度”。
Mr. Jin, who did much of the negotiating that attracted 46 countries, including Britain, Germany, Australia and South Korea, as founding members of the new bank, went out of his way to persuade his audience that China will not dominate it. “Leadership is not a privilege,” he said, “it’s an obligation.”
金立群负责大部分谈判工作，吸引了包括英国、德国、澳大利亚和韩国在内的46个国家和地区成为亚投行的创始成员。他极力试图说服听众，中国不会控制该银行。“领导地位不是特权，”他说，“而是责任。”
The bank, first proposed by President Xi Jinping of China in 2013 and expected to have starting capital of $100 billion, is intended as a way to build badly needed railways, roads and pipelines in underdeveloped areas of Asia.
中国国家主席习近平于2013年首次提出了设立新银行的计划，该银行的初始资本将会达到1000亿美元（约合6200亿元人民币）。设立亚投行是为了在亚洲的欠发达地区建造急需的铁路、道路和管道。
The United States declined to become a member, and as China invited countries to sign up, the Obama administration advised its allies not to join on the grounds that the new institution would undermine the World Bank, led by the United States, and the Asian Development Bank, dominated by Japan.
美国拒绝加入亚投行。随着中国邀请各个国家签约加入新银行，奥巴马政府建议其盟友不要加入，因为该银行会削弱美国主导的世界银行(World Bank)和日本主导的亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)的影响力。
After some of Washington’s closest friends, including Britain and Australia, ignored that advice, the administration amended its opposition, saying it would encourage the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank to cooperate with the new institution provided its projects meet certain standards of transparency and governance. Fourteen of the advanced economies in the Group of 20 industrialized nations have become founding members.
美国的一些亲密盟友，如英国和澳大利亚，无视上述建议。于是奥巴马政府改变反对态度，称美国会支持世界银行、亚洲开发银行与亚投行开展合作，只要该银行的项目在透明度及管理方面达到一定的标准。在由工业化国家组成的20国集团(Group of 20)中，已有14个发达经济体成为亚投行的创始成员国。
The bank is expected to start operations at the end of the year, and as it gears up, some founding members, including Australia, say they will press China hard to ensure that it adopts transparent rules.
该银行将于今年年底开始运营，随着准备工作的推进，澳大利亚等创始成员国表示，它们将向中国大力施压，迫使中国确保该银行采取透明的规则。
How the new institution will withstand pressure from interest groups in China, particularly large state-owned enterprises that are expected to push for contracts to work on the infrastructure projects, is a major question for officials from some of the founding countries.
对部分创始成员国的官员来说，一个主要问题是，这个新机构该如何抵挡来自中国利益集团的压力，特别是大型国企，预计它们会奋力争取合同，参与基础设施项目。
Mr. Jin sought to allay those concerns at the gathering here, stressing that the new bank, with so many major countries as members, was a multilateral institution. “China is just a leading member,” he said.
在这里举行的会议上，金立群试图消除这些担忧，强调新银行有许多大国参与，是一个多边机构。“中国只是其中的一个主要成员，”他说。
China, based on its gross domestic product, will be the biggest shareholder, but as new members join, China’s shares will diminish, he said. The bank will have its headquarters in Beijing, in the city’s financial district.
他表示，根据国内生产总值，中国将是最大的股东，但随着新成员的加入，中国的股份会下降。银行的总部将设在北京的金融街。
Still, a former minister of trade for Indonesia, Mari Pangestu, whose country is a member of the bank, asked Mr. Jin on Saturday how the bank would meet demands for environmental and social standards, given what she called the “mixed” results of China’s investments in developing countries.
然而，成员国印度尼西亚的前贸易部长冯慧兰(Mari Pangestu)周六向金立群提问，考虑到中国在发展中国家的投资结果“喜忧参半”，该银行将如何满足环境和社会标准的要求。
The new bank will ensure that people displaced by new infrastructure projects will be taken care of, Mr. Jin replied. Local communities and countries interested in projects financed by the bank will have the opportunity to be involved from the projects’ early stages and have a say through their “full life cycle,” he said.
金立群答复说，新银行将确保因新的基础设施项目而搬迁的居民得到安置。他说，对该银行资助的项目感兴趣的地方社区和国家，将有机会从项目的初期阶段就参与进去，并且在“整个生命周期里”都享有发言权。
Implicit in Mr. Jin’s pledge to make a “lean, clean and green” bank was a contrast with the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, which were founded as part of the international economic architecture after World War II, dominated by the United States.
金立群宣称要建立一个“精干、廉洁、绿色”的机构，此番表态背后隐含的意图是，与世界银行(World Bank)和亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)形成对比。这两个机构成立于二战后，是以美国为主导的国际经济结构的一部分。