The Public Art Fund, which in recent years has looked far outside its New York City base for artists and projects, announced Tuesday that it had enlisted Adrian Cheng, a prominent Chinese collector and the scion of a multibillion-dollar retailing empire, to join its board.
近几年来，公共艺术基金(Public Art Fund)在寻找艺术家和项目的时候，目光远远超出了其所在地纽约市，本周二该基金宣布，它已经招募中国著名收藏家郑志刚加入其董事会。郑志刚的家族拥有一个数十亿美元级的零售帝国。
Mr. Cheng, 36, has become more visible in the international art world in recent years through the development of an unusual business-meets-nonprofit model in China for promoting shopping and fine art at the same time. Mr. Cheng’s K11 Art Foundation, a nonprofit, works with his family’s business to organize museumlike exhibitions (a sizable Monet show last year in Shanghai) and displays of contemporary art in the family’s high-end malls. Such arrangements, which are becoming more popular among retailers in Asia, were once common in the West, though their history is now little remembered. (Michael Kimmelman, writing in The New York Times about that history in 1995, noted that the first Cubist art show in America took place at Gimbels in Pittsburgh in 1913, at a time when department stores sought to elevate the taste of their patrons and “you were more likely to find” high culture “at A.T. Stewart’s giant store on Broadway and 10th Street, along Ladies’ Mile” than at New York’s fledgling museums.)
郑志刚现年36岁，近几年来在国际艺术界中声名渐起，因为他在中国采取了一种不同寻常的做法，将商业与非盈利模式融为一体，既促进购物，又宣扬艺术。郑志刚的非盈利机构K11艺术基金会与他的家族企业携手举办博物馆式的展览（去年在上海举办了一个相当大的莫奈作品展），在家族旗下的高端商场里展出当代艺术作品。这样的做法目前在亚洲的零售商中正在日趋流行，其实西方也一度盛行这种做法，虽然它们的历史现在鲜少有人记得。（迈克尔·基姆尔曼[Michael Kimmelman]1995年时曾在《纽约时报》的文章中讲述过那段历史。他指出，美国的第一个立体派艺术展是1913年在匹兹堡的金贝尔斯(Gimbels)百货商店举办的，因为当时公司希望提升顾客的品味。而且和纽约当时羽翼未丰的博物馆相比，在A· T·斯图尔特[A.T. Stewart]位于百老汇和第10街的巨型商店里，在女人街(Ladies’ Mile)上，你可以见识到更多的“高雅文化”。）
In a telephone interview from Seoul, where he was traveling, Mr. Cheng said he was interested in joining the Public Art Fund’s board – his first presence as a trustee for an art institution in New York – because he sees his foundation’s mission as fostering greater awareness of contemporary art in China, where public art institutions have often lagged. “It’s all about art for the masses,” said Mr. Cheng, who was educated at Harvard and owns an apartment in Manhattan. “So the Public Art Fund actually matches our mission.”
此刻身在首尔的郑志刚接受了电话采访，他说，他有兴趣加入公共艺术基金的董事会——这是他第一次成为纽约艺术机构的受托人——因为他认为，自己基金会的使命在于促进中国的当代艺术意识；中国的公共艺术机构在这方面往往比较滞后。“K11全心致力于大众艺术，因此，公共艺术基金实际上和我们的使命是一致的，”郑志刚说。他在哈佛大学受过教育，并在曼哈顿拥有一座寓所。
Nicholas Baume, the Public Art Fund’s director and chief curator, said that as the fund became more globally engaged it was interested in a patron with a “really key position in Asia.”
公共艺术基金的总监兼首席策展人尼古拉斯·鲍姆(Nicholas Baume)表示，由于该基金变得更加全球化，它对一个“在亚洲拥有真正重要地位”的董事会成员很有兴趣。
“A lot of the artists we’ve worked with he shares a passion for,” Mr. Baume said of Mr. Cheng. “I think the dialogue with Adrian could enrich both of our institutions.”
“我们已经合作过的很多艺术家，他都很喜欢，”在谈到郑志刚时，鲍姆说。“我觉得，与他的对话能让我们的机构变得更出色。”