HONG KONG — General Motors said on Tuesday that it had been contacted by the Chinese authorities as part of a broadening antitrust investigation into foreign automakers. One day earlier, Audi said that in one province the dealership network of its Chinese joint venture had broken national antitrust rules and would be punished by the government.
香港——通用汽车公司(General Motors)周二表示，中国当局已接触过该公司。这是中国对外国汽车制造商开展的反垄断调查中的一环，调查范围正在扩大。早前一天，奥迪(Audi)表示，该公司的中国合资企业在一个省的经销网络违反了国家反垄断法规，将受到政府的惩罚。
The automakers’ difficulties are part of the broader pressure facing foreign companies from China’s more energetic enforcement of antitrust rules. Large companies like Microsoft, Qualcomm, Accenture and a half-dozen manufacturers of infant formula have all been scrutinized in the last year, including raids on Microsoft’s offices in China late last month and on Daimler’s Shanghai offices last week.
中国更有热情地推进反垄断执法给外国公司带来了更广泛的压力，相关汽车制造商面临的困难便是这种压力的一部分。过去一年里，微软(Microsoft)、高通(Qualcomm)、埃森哲(Accenture)等大公司，以及几家婴儿配方奶粉生产商都受到了检查，其中包括上个月底微软位于上海的办公室，以及上周戴姆勒公司(Daimler)上海办公室受到的突击调查。
The Chinese authorities have been looking at many automakers this summer, although few have been publicly identified. The focus of the review has been whether automakers have compelled their dealers to set high, standardized prices for replacement parts that the carmakers produced. The Insurance Association of China and the China Auto Maintenance and Repair Association said in April that replacing each part in a Mercedes C-Class sedan would cost 12 times as much as buying a new car. Daimler, the German manufacturer of Mercedes-Benz, declined on Tuesday to discuss the cost of replacement parts for C-Class sedans. The recent raid of its Shanghai offices came just a day after it said it would cut the price of Mercedes-Benz repair parts sold in China by an average of 15 percent, in response to antimonopoly investigations of the industry.
今年夏天，中国当局一直盯着许多汽车制造商，但鲜有公司被公开点名。这次调查的重点是，汽车制造商是否强迫经销商，对其生产的替换零件制定高昂的标准价。中国保险行业协会和中国汽车维修行业协会在4月表示，给梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)的C级轿车更换全部零件的费用，是买一辆新车的12倍。周二，奔驰汽车的德国制造商戴姆勒公司拒绝讨论C级轿车替换零件费用的问题。前不久，其上海办公室遭到突击调查。而就在受到调查的前一天，该公司表示将把在华出售的奔驰配件的价格平均下调15%，以此回应中国对该行业开展的反垄断调查。
G.M. sought to counter criticism of replacement part prices on Tuesday, saying that the cost of replacing the parts in the average Cadillac was 330 percent of the price of a new model; for Buicks, the cost was 284 percent; and for Chevrolets, it was 265 percent.
周二，通用汽车试图反驳关于替换零件价格的指责，称更换一辆普通凯迪拉克(Cadillac)所有零件的费用，是一辆新车价格的3.3倍；对于别克(Buick)车型，是2.84倍；而对于雪佛兰(Chevrolet)车型，是2.65倍。
G.M.'s main Chinese subsidiary, Shanghai General Motors, said in a statement that it had been supplying information to the National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planning agency. “Since 2012, Shanghai General Motors has always actively supported and cooperated with all the surveys and research work carried out in the auto industry by N.D.R.C.'s price monitoring and antimonopoly bureau,” the statement said.
通用在中国的主要分支上海通用汽车在一份声明中表示，该公司一直在向国家发展和改革委员会报备信息，发改委是中国最高的经济规划机构。声明写道，“自2012年以来，上海通用汽车一直积极响应和配合发改委价格监督和反垄断局对于汽车行业的各项调查和调研工作。”
Audi, a unit of Volkswagen, said in its statement on Monday that the dealership network in Hubei Province of the FAW-Volkswagen joint venture had violated national antimonopoly laws. The joint venture “has closely cooperated with the investigation and will accept a penalty,” the statement said, adding that, “management processes in the sales and dealership structure are getting improved to prevent similar incidents in the future.”
周一，大众汽车(Volkswagen)旗下的奥迪在声明中表示，合资企业一汽-大众在湖北省的经销网络违反了国家发垄断法。声明称，一汽-大众会“积极配合相关部门的调查”，接受“相关部门对此事的处理”，并补充说，会“进一步加强对区域销售服务业务的规范和管理，杜绝类似事件再次发生”。
Prices for automotive replacement parts have been an issue for decades in the United States. Consumer advocates and insurance companies there have long contended that automakers make it too difficult for consumers to buy generic parts instead, but some consumers and lawyers in turn have assailed insurance companies for being too reluctant to cover the higher cost of replacement parts from automakers.
数十年来，汽车替换零件的价格在美国也一直是个问题。长期以来，美国的消费者权益倡导者和保险公司一直认为，汽车制造商让消费者很难买到非原厂的部件，而一些消费者和律师则指责，保险公司不愿赔付从汽车制造商那里购买替换零件的高额费用。
The auto parts inquiry in China also plays into broader irritant for Chinese consumers. Car prices in the country tend to be much higher than in other markets, as consumers can readily see by checking online.
中国对汽车零件开展的调查，也迎合了中国消费者更为广泛的恼火情绪。中国的汽车价格往往比其他市场高很多，通过网上查询，消费者很容易就能做出这种比较。
The main reason for the discrepancy lies in the steep taxes that China imposes on cars. These taxes include a value-added tax of 17 percent, an import tax of 25 percent and a consumption tax based on engine displacement that reaches as much as 40 percent of the sales price for cars and sport utility vehicles with large engines. Regulators have discouraged automakers from calling attention to the high taxes in the price information given to consumers, who often see only the overall price of a vehicle.
造成这种差异的主要原因是中国对汽车征收的高额税收，其中包括17%的增值税、25%的进口税，以及视发动机排量而定的消费税。对于装有大型发动机的轿车和SUV，消费税可达售价的40%。监管部门不希望汽车制造商在交给消费者的价格信息中，让消费者注意到这些高额税费，消费者看到的往往只是汽车的整体价格。
But even excluding the taxes, cars in China are still slightly more expensive than in other markets. Auto executives and analysts say that this is because sales of cars and light trucks have risen more than tenfold in China since 2000, producing frequent shortages of popular models.
不过即使排除税收，中国的汽车仍然比其他市场稍贵。汽车公司的高管和分析人士称，这是因为自2000年以来，中国轿车和轻型货车的销量增加了十多倍，从而导致受欢迎的车型频频出现缺货。
Markets elsewhere, particularly in Europe and to some extent in the United States, have had gluts of cars. And manufacturers have struggled with unions to close excess factories, selling many cars at fairly low prices in local markets. China’s taxes on imported cars, which are much higher than in most major markets, have discouraged automakers from trying to meet demand in China by importing vehicles from their operations elsewhere.
而其他市场，尤其是欧洲的汽车却供过于求，美国在某种程度上也存在这个问题。制造商顶着工会的压力，关闭产能过剩的工厂，以较低的价格在本地市场出售许多汽车。中国对进口汽车征收的税款比大多数主要市场都高，这抑制了汽车制造商从其他地区的子公司进口汽车，来满足中国的市场需求的意愿。
Not all foreign automakers have been the subject of inquiries in China. The China division of the Ford Motor Company indicated in a statement that it had not been targeted: “We are aware of the ongoing government investigation in the auto industry. We will fully support and cooperate if and as required.”
并非所有外国汽车制造商都受到了中国政府的调查。福特汽车公司(Ford Motor Company)的中国分支在一份声明中表示，它并不是调查对象：“我们知道政府正在对汽车行业进行调查。如有必要，我们将全力支持与配合。”