Chinese military experts are engaging in a bit of exuberant backslapping over the naval evacuation not just of more than 600 Chinese citizens in Yemen, but of hundreds of other foreigners. It was the first time China had deployed warships to carry out such an evacuation, and the fact that so many people from other countries were welcomed on board and ferried to safety was seen as polishing the country’s image as a helpful hand in an international crisis.
中国军事专家们正在加入到一场不小的热烈相互祝贺中来，令他们自豪的是，中国海军从也门不仅撤出了600多名中国公民，也疏散了数以百计的外国人。这是中国首次动用军舰执行这种任务，而且，中国欢迎许多来自其他国家的人上船并把他们送到安全地区的事实，被视为是给国家形象增添了光彩，表明中国在一场国际危机中能助一臂之力。
“It is the new responsibility of a great power,” Zhu Feng, executive director of the China Center for Collaborative Studies of the South China Sea at Nanjing University, said on Wednesday. “China’s vision of the navy is decisively widening. When it is operating in international waters, it should shoulder international responsibility. It’s good, it’s good.”
南京大学中国南海研究协同创新中心执行主任朱峰周三说，“这是一个大国的新职责。中国海军的视野正在果断地扩大。当海军在国际水域执行任务时，它应该承担国际责任。这很好，这很好。”
The state news agency Xinhua reported on Tuesday that three Chinese Navy ships had evacuated 629 Chinese and 279 citizens of 15 other countries.
据国家通讯社新华社周二报道，三艘中国海军舰艇已将629名中国公民以及其他15个国家的279名公民撤离。
By last weekend, fighting had intensified between Iranian-backed Shiite Houthi fighters who have seized the capital, Sana, and a Saudi-led coalition conducting airstrikes against the militants. China has temporarily closed its embassy in Sana and its consulate general in Aden.
上周末，伊朗支持的什叶派胡塞武装分子与以沙特阿拉伯为首的、对武装分子进行空袭的联军之间的战斗加剧，武装分子已占领了首都萨那。中国临时关闭了在萨那的大使馆，以及在亚丁的总领事馆。
The last group of Chinese left Yemen on Monday on the naval frigate Linyi. The ship, which carried 38 Chinese evacuees and 45 Sri Lankans, arrived in Djibouti on Tuesday after a 12-hour voyage, Xinhua reported. Another Chinese ship, the Weishanhu, arrived on Tuesday in Oman with nine Chinese evacuees and one from Japan.
最后一批中国人于周一搭乘海军护卫舰临沂舰撤离。新华社报道说，这艘载有38名中国撤离人员及45名斯里兰卡公民的军舰，在12小时的航行后，于周二抵达吉布提港。另一艘中国军舰微山湖舰于周二抵达阿曼，船上载有九名中国撤离人员和一名日本人。
Germans, Ethiopians and Pakistanis were among those evacuated by the Chinese. The Japanese government thanked China for inviting a Japanese tourist to join the evacuation.
德国人、埃塞俄比亚人，以及巴基斯坦人也在搭乘中国军舰撤离的人员之列。日本政府对中国邀请一名日本游客登上疏散船只表示了感谢。
“We have conveyed our gratitude to the Chinese government,” the Japanese chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, said at a news conference on Tuesday. The Chinese had taken the Japanese tourist on board voluntarily and had not been requested to do so by the Japanese government, Mr. Suga said.
日本内阁官房长官菅义伟在周二的记者会上说，“我们已向中国政府表达了我们的感谢。”菅义伟说，在没有得到日本政府要求的情况下，中国主动让那位日本游客上船。
Xinhua on Monday said the evacuation supported Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s statement in March that China is “on the same boat” as the rest of the world. “With an able and helpful China, the world will have more resources to maneuver through disasters and crisis,” it said.
新华社在周一发表的一篇英文评论文章中说，撤离行动是对外交部长王毅三月份的中国与世界各国“同舟共济”说法的支持。评论说，“一个有能力且愿意助人的中国，对世界来说，将会是对付灾害和危机上的更多可操控资源。”
The operation made use of some enduring ties between the Chinese consul general in Aden and the local governor. One of China’s frigates was granted permission to dock at Aden only after Consul General Pan Zhinan allowed a relative of Gov. Abdel-Aziz bin Habtoor to board, the commander of the Chinese operation, Jiang Guoping, told CCTV, the Chinese state broadcaster.
撤离行动部分靠的是中国驻亚丁总领事与当地省长之间的特殊关系。这一行动的指挥官姜国平告诉中国中央电视台CCTV，只是在中国驻亚丁总领事潘志南同意让省长阿普杜勒-阿齐兹·本·哈卜图尔(Abdel-Aziz bin Habtoor)的亲戚上船之后，中国海军的护卫舰才被获准进入亚丁港。
When a ship pulls into a country to evacuate its own citizens from danger, there are no fixed rules on whether it has a legal responsibility to rescue other foreigners as well, several Western military experts said. But it certainly is expected that people stranded with little hope of escaping a conflict should be taken on board, they said.
一些西方军事专家说，当一个国家的船只驶入另一个国家港口将本国公民撤离危险时，没有现成条文规定，它是否有救助其他外国人的法律责任。但可以肯定的是，几乎没有希望躲避战乱的受困人员应该能被收容上船，这些专家说。