The transformation of a once dowdy stretch of 57th Street into Billionaires’ Row reached new heights on Tuesday, as two of New York City’s leading developers reached a truce that paves the way for two more ultraluxury towers on the northern edge of Midtown.
曾经破败的第57街向亿万富翁居住区的转变，在周二达到一个新的顶点，纽约市两大开发商宣布停战，为中城北端的两座超豪华大厦的开发铺平了道路。
Like five others under development in the neighborhood, the two new towers will feature apartments selling for tens of millions of dollars and promising spectacular Central Park views.
和这一带另外五座在建的大厦一样，这两座新大厦会提供要价数千万美元的公寓，承诺可以看到壮观的中央公园美景。
Taken together, the seven high-rise buildings promise to remake the skyline and to redefine what it means to be rich in a city that is a cradle of capitalism and not so long ago was an emblem of urban poverty.
这七座大厦合在一起，有望重塑天际线，并在这座被视为资本主义摇篮、一度也是城市贫困的象征的城市里，重新定义财富。
For seven years, the two developers, Gary Barnett and Steven Roth, blocked each other from moving forward with his respective superluxury project. But the men decided the time had come to settle, and on Tuesday, they signed a deal ending the feud.
七年来，加里·巴尼特 (Gary Barnett)和史蒂芬·罗斯(Steven Roth)这两位开发商一直在给对方的超豪华项目设置障碍。但两人认为是时候做一了断，于周二签署了一项停止争端的协议。
Mr. Barnett, president of Extell Development, is already building One57, a 1,004-foot tower on 57th Street just east of Seventh Avenue, where the penthouse is under contract for $90 million. To the east, the penthouse at the 1,396-foot skyscraper under construction by Harry Macklowe and the CIM Group is selling for $95 million, or more than $11,000 a square foot.
Extell开发公司(Extell Development Company)总裁巴尼特已经开始在第七大道以东的第57街建设一座1004英尺（约合306米）高的大厦One57，顶层公寓已经签下价值9000万美元的预售合同。在这座大厦以东，哈里·麦克洛(Harry  Macklowe)和CIM集团正在建设一座高1396英尺的摩天大楼，顶层公寓要价9500万美元，或每平方英尺售价超过1.1万美元。
Now, Mr. Barnett plans to erect a tower of at least 1,400 feet on 57th Street, just east of Broadway. Directly to the north, Mr. Roth, chairman of Vornado Realty, will proceed with a 65-story (roughly 900-feet-tall) residential tower. Under their accord, Mr. Roth shifted the site of his building slightly to the west, while Mr. Barnett edged his eastward, so that both skyscrapers could capitalize on what may be their most lucrative features: Central Park views.
如今巴尼特又计划在第57街建造一座高度至少1400英尺的大厦，就在百老汇东面。在这座大厦的正北，沃那多房产公司(Vornado Realty)总裁罗斯会开发一座65层（大约900英尺高）的住宅楼。经过两人的协商，罗斯将他的项目往西稍稍移动了一点，而巴尼特则往东移动，这样两座大厦的最大卖点就都得到了保障，那就是中央公园景观。
“That’s the money shot,” Mr. Barnett said.
“那可是最值钱的地方，”巴尼特说。
But with the surge in construction of apartments at prices only a billionaire could afford, is there a fear of saturation?
但是，随着这些只有亿万富翁能承受的公寓项目不断涌现，会不会存在市场饱和的危险呢？
“Price really has no relevance,” said Nancy Packes, a real estate consultant and marketing executive. “High net worth individuals look at real estate today not as a place to live, but as an investment.
“价格其实是不相干的，”房地产顾问和市场营销高管南希·帕克斯(Nancy Packes)说。“如今在高资产净值的个人眼里，房产不是用来住的，而是一个投资。”
“It’s more stable than currency, bonds or stocks. And there are only a handful of cities around the globe where they invest: London, Hong Kong, Singapore and New York.”
“它比货币、债券或股票更稳定。他们只在全球少数几个地方投资：伦敦、香港、新加坡和纽约。”
There seems to be no shortage of billionaires. The Forbes 2013 list of the world’s billionaires had 1,426 names, up 200 from last year.
亿万富翁看来是不缺的。福布斯2013年全球亿万富翁榜单上有1426个名字，比去年多了200个。
But Thomas Bender, a cultural historian at New York University, said the ultraluxury towers represented a flouting of the social distribution of wealth around the world.
但是纽约大学(New York University)文化史学家托马斯·班德尔(Thomas Bender)说，超豪华大厦是对全世界财富的社会分配的一次公然藐视。
“These are the kinds of buildings that the robber barons built,” Professor Bender said, “but it’s also what you see in rapidly developing societies where billionaires seek to distinguish themselves in the midst of poverty.”
“这些就是当年强盗富豪盖得那种楼，”班德尔说，“但这就是我们目前在高速发展的社会中所看到的，亿万富豪想在一片贫穷的景象中显得卓尔不群。”
A century ago, the beauty of the 840 acres that make up Central Park inspired another boom in ultraluxury housing: Millionaires’ Row. The Astor, Vanderbilt, Frick and Whitney families built mansions along a stretch of Fifth Avenue north of 50th Street. In 1905, Andrew Carnegie erected a four-story, 64-room palatial home at 91st Street.
一个世纪以前，组成了中央公园的840英亩（约合340公顷）美景也曾引发过一次兴建超豪华房产的热潮，也就是百万富翁区(Millionaires’ Row)。阿斯特(Astor)、范德比尔特(Vanderbilt)、弗里克(Frick)和惠特尼(Whitney)家族在第50街以北的第五大道建造了豪宅。1905年，安德鲁·卡内基(Andrew Carnegie)在第91街建起了一座四层、64个房间的宏伟宅邸。
But the new luxury towers are not aimed exclusively at New Yorkers or even Americans. The Web site for 432 Park, Mr. Macklowe’s project, provides information in Chinese, French, Italian, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.
但是，这些新的豪华大厦面向的买家不仅仅是纽约人，甚至美国人。在麦克洛的“432公园大道”项目网站上，还有用中文、法文、意大利文、葡萄牙文、俄文和西班牙文提供的信息。
It is the lure of enormous profits in a fast-paced residential market that eventually led Mr. Barnett and Mr. Roth to end their bitter dispute.
快节奏的住宅市场中蕴含着巨大的利润，正是这种诱惑，最终导致巴尼特和罗斯结束了他们之间针锋相对的状态。
In June 2005, Mr. Barnett bought the first of a number of parcels for a high-rise project between 57th and 58th Streets, near Broadway.
巴尼特为了第57街和58街之间、百老汇附近的一个高层项目购买了大量地块，第一块购于2005年6月。
Two months later, Mr. Roth of Vornado bought a rental building at 220 Central Park South whose lot extended to 58th Street.
两个月后，沃那多房产公司的罗斯买下了中央公园南大道220号的一栋出租楼，它所占的地块延伸到了第58街。
Fearing that the Vornado tower would block the views of his planned tower, Mr. Barnett sought a bargaining chip by quickly buying the lease from the garage operator at 220 Central Park South and a small parcel on 58th Street that sat in the middle of Mr. Roth’s planned development site.
巴尼特担心沃那多公司的大厦会挡住自己新大楼窗外的景色，为了获得谈判的筹码，他迅速从220中央公园南大道的一家车库运营商那里购买了租约，还在第58街罗斯打算开发的区域中间买下一块地。
Over the ensuing years, Mr. Roth bought out all of the tenants in the building’s rent-regulated units and fought unsuccessfully in court with Mr. Barnett, whose lease on the garage will eventually expire. Each had something the other wanted.
罗斯购买的那栋出租楼是受出租管制的，在随后的几年里，他花钱打发了楼里的所有租户，但在法庭上跟巴尼特短兵相接时落败了，而巴尼特购买的车库租约终究也会到期。两人手里都有对方想要的东西。
Several months ago, the two sides began negotiating a deal from which they could both profit. On Tuesday, Vornado said that it had paid $194 million for Mr. Barnett’s parcel on 58th Street and additional development rights that would allow it to build an even taller tower.
几个月前，双方开始谈判，希望达成一份双方都能从中获益的协议。本周二，沃那多公司表示，它已向巴尼特支付1.94亿美元，购得第58街的一个地块以及额外的开发权，因此可以修建一座甚至更高的大厦。