BEIJING — China and 20 other countries signed a memorandum on Friday agreeing to create an international development bank that Beijing hopes will rival organizations like the World Bank. But some leading Asian countries refrained from joining the project, which the United States has been quietly lobbying against.
北京——周五，中国与其他20个国家签署了一份备忘录，就建立一家国际发展银行达成共识。北京方面希望，该银行能匹敌世界银行(World Bank)等机构。但是，一些主要亚洲国家并没有参与该项目，美国也一直在私下游说各国不要参加。
Japan, Australia, South Korea and Indonesia were not represented at the signing ceremony for the bank, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, in Beijing. India joined the bank, along with Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines, news agencies reported.
日本、澳大利亚、韩国和印度尼西亚均未派代表参加亚洲基础设施投资银行（Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank，简称亚投行）相关文件的签字仪式。据各通讯社消息，加入该银行的国家除印度以外，还有马来西亚、泰国、越南和菲律宾。
The bank, proposed a year ago by President Xi Jinping of China, is to offer financing for infrastructure projects in underdeveloped countries across Asia. China, which has promised to contribute much of the initial $50 billion in capital, sees it as a way to increase its influence in the region after years of fruitless lobbying for more say in other multinational lending organizations.
一年前，中国国家主席习近平提议成立该银行，其目的主要是为亚洲不发达国家的基础设施项目提供资金。在500亿美元（约合3060亿元人民币）的初始资本中，中国承诺会支付一大部分。对于中国而言，这个银行可以增加中国的地区影响力。数年来，中国为了在其他重要国际组织获得更多话语权做出了诸多努力，但都无果而终。
But the United States, with allies like Australia and South Korea, has campaigned against the project, characterizing it as an attempt to undercut the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, which are dominated by the United States and Japan.
然而，美国与其盟友澳大利亚和韩国，都对该项目表示反对，称这样做是在试图削弱世界银行和亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)。在这两家银行占主导地位的是美国和日本。
Mr. Xi, meeting with representatives of the founding members after the signing ceremony, said the new bank “will help to improve global financial governance,” according to Xinhua, the Chinese state-run news agency.
中国官方通讯社新华社报道，习近平在签字仪式后会见创始成员国代表时说，这个新银行“有利于推动完善全球金融治理”。
Australia has yet to make a decision on joining, Gemma Daley, a spokeswoman for Joe Hockey, the treasurer of Australia, said on Friday. The South Korean finance minister, Choi Kyung-hwan, said this week that Seoul was willing to participate under certain conditions, including a commitment from the bank to meet international standards on issues like the environmental impact of projects. “If such issues are resolved, there will be no reason for us not to join,” Mr. Choi said on Wednesday.
澳大利亚财政部长乔·霍基(Joe Hockey)的女发言人杰玛·戴利(Gemma Daley)周五表示，澳大利亚尚未决定是否加入。韩国财政部长崔炅焕(Choi Kyung Hwan)本周表示，首尔方面愿意在一定条件下参与亚投行，比如亚投行承诺在项目环境影响等问题上，达到国际标准。崔炅焕周三表示，“如果这些问题解决了，我们没有理由不加入。”
Still, the countries’ absence on Friday was a blow to the project.
但这些国家周五没有出席签约仪式，对于亚投行也是一个打击。
Chinese officials have said that the bank is intended to complement existing lending organizations, not to compete with them. In March, Lou Jiwei, the Chinese finance minister, said the bank would “mainly focus on infrastructure construction,” whereas the World Bank and Asian Development Bank “put their priorities more on poverty reduction.”
中国官员曾表示，亚投行旨在与现有的信贷机构形成互补关系，而不是竞争关系。今年3月，中国财政部长楼继伟表示，亚投行“专注于亚洲基础设施建设”，而世界银行、亚洲开发银行则“则以减贫为宗旨”。
The Asian Development Bank’s president, Takehiko Nakao, disputed that view on Thursday. “There’s a misunderstanding that the A.D.B. is for poverty reduction and the A.I.I.B. is for infrastructure, but the majority of our banking is to infrastructure,” Reuters quoted him as saying.
周四，亚洲开发银行总裁中尾武彦(Takehiko Nakao)反驳了这一观点。路透社(Reuters)援引他的话说，“有人误认为，亚行以减贫为目标，亚投行侧重于基础设施，但我们大多数的银行业务是基础设施项目。”
China already directly finances many infrastructure projects in the developing world, and many Chinese analysts see the bank as a sensible next step.
中国已经在为发展中国家的很多基础设施项目提供资金，很多中国分析人士认为，建立亚投行是一个明智的计划。