The Civil Aviation Administration of China has said it will relax requirements for obtaining a private pilot’s license, a move that is likely to unleash pent-up demand in the country’s civil aviation sector. The new regulations make it considerably easier for individuals to acquire a license, a coveted status symbol within China’s burgeoning class of business moguls and millionaires.
中国民航局称将放宽私用飞行驾照考取标准，这很可能会释放中国民航业积压已久的需求。新规定让个人考取飞行驾照变得容易得多，飞行驾照在中国新兴的商业大亨和富豪阶层中是一种令人垂涎的身份象征。
The announcement on Tuesday came just weeks after the Air Traffic Control Commission of China unveiled plans to open more low-altitude airspace for commercial and private airplanes in the coming years. Most of China’s airspace is currently reserved for military use, and the push to liberalize the country’s airspace has been a front-line issue between China’s vast security apparatus and its increasingly powerful commercial interests.
这一消息是在周二宣布的，几周前，中国空中交通管制委员会公布计划，表示在未来几年将向商用和私人飞机开放更多的低空空域。中国大部分空域现在都保留给军用，推动开放更多空域的问题一直是中国庞大的安全机构和越来越强大的商业利益之间的一个尖锐矛盾。
In 2011, a senior official in the Civil Aviation Administration estimated that 20 percent of China’s airspace was available for civil aviation, including both commercial and private flights. By contrast, the official said, about 85 percent of the United States’ airspace was open for civil aviation.
民航局的一位高级官员2011年曾估计，20%的中国空域对包括商业和私人飞行在内的民用航空开放。但是，这位官员说，85%的美国空域都对民用航空开放。
According to Xia Xinghua, deputy administrator of the C.A.A.C., China has 399 airports or vertipads and 1,610 jets registered for civil aviation, with a rapidly expanding consumer market for private jets. Given that the private aircraft market in the West is still rebounding from the financial crisis, some analysts say that China could overtake the United States as the largest market for private planes within the coming decade.
据民航局副局长夏兴华说，中国已有399个机场或垂直起降点，以及1610架注册为民用的飞机，私人飞机的市场需求也在快速增长。一些分析人士称，鉴于西方的私人飞机市场受到金融危机影响还在恢复中，中国可能会在未来十年中超过美国成为最大的私人飞机市场。
Zhu Shicai, an official with the Air Traffic Control Commission, told reporters at the China International General Aviation Convention in October that general aviation was expected to be the next driving force of the Chinese economy, after the automobile industry. Developing the civil aviation sector was highlighted as a major goal in China’s 12th Five-Year Plan.
空中交通管制委员会官员朱时才10月份在中国国际通用航空大会上对记者说，继汽车工业之后，通用航空有望成为中国经济的下一个驱动力。发展民用航空是中国第十二个五年计划明确提出的主要目标之一。
Pete Bunce, president of the Washington-based General Aviation Manufacturers Association, in response to the C.A.A.C. announcement, commended the Chinese  “government for taking this initial step, and we look forward to the pending release of further regulations that more clearly define the altitudes specified for” general aviation operations.
位于华盛顿的美国通用航空制造商协会(General Aviation Manufacturers Association)会长皮特·邦斯(Pete Bunce)在对民航总局的宣布的反应中称赞了中国“政府迈出的第一步，我们期待即将出台更详细的规则”，为通用航空操作“更明确地限定飞行高度层”。
The previous regulations concerning private aviation licenses were released in 1996, years before the market for private flying began to take off. Under the old regulations, the requirements to obtain a private pilot’s license were similar to those for a commercial pilot’s license. In the United States and other countries, commercial pilot’s licenses are considerably harder to obtain than private ones.
有关私人飞行驾照的现有规定是1996年出台的，那是在私人飞机市场开始腾飞的好几年前。根据老规定，考取私人飞行驾照的要求与考取商业飞行驾照的类似。在美国和其他国家，商业飞行驾照要比私人飞行驾照难拿得多。
Under the new rules, which take effect Sunday, Chinese citizens aged 17 or above with at least a junior high school education will be eligible to apply for a private pilot’s license, which allows them to fly noncommercial airplanes. Applicants must undergo 40 hours of classroom study, 40 hours of in-flight training, and then pass relevant tests. The in-flight training requirement stipulates 20 hours of assisted flying, 10 hours of solo flying and another 10 hours of training in various situations, such as landing at night.
新规定将于周日生效，根据此规定，年满17周岁、具有初中或初中以上文化程度的人，就可以申请报考私人飞行驾照，私人飞行驾照持有者能驾驶非商业飞机。申请者必须完成40小时的理论学习、40小时的飞行训练，通过相应的考试才能获得驾照。飞行训练的要求包括20小时的协助飞行，10小时的单独飞行，以及10小时的各种不同情况下的飞行，比如夜间着陆。
On Friday, The Beijing News carried the headline: “In the future, getting a private pilot’s license will be just as easy as getting an automobile driver’s license.”
《新京报》周五发表的一篇文章称，“今后考飞机驾照将像考汽车驾照一样方便。”