Mr. Liu, 31, had not competed since again injuring his right Achilles’ tendon during the 2012 London Olympics. He said on Tuesday that he had given up after more than two years of frustrating and ultimately failed physical rehabilitation.
现年31岁的刘翔在2012年伦敦奥运会期间右跟腱再次受伤，那以后他没有参加过比赛。他周二表示，经过两年多的令人沮丧、但最终失败的理疗康复之后，他决定放弃。
“Of course my heart is still willing, but my foot has again and again said no to me,” he wrote in a statement posted to his Sina Weibo account. “There is no way it can take high-intensity training or competition. I hate my foot; I love my track and my hurdles. If my foot wasn’t injured, I … unfortunately in this world there are no ifs. I brought about the injury myself, and I can only silently accept it. To have the intention but not the ability is dispiriting and painful. For more than two years I’ve been at a loss, but today I’ve decided to give up, to leave. I want a new life.”
他在新浪微博发布的一份声明中写道，“虽然我的心中仍有热血，但我的脚却一次次对我说不，它无法再承受高强度的训练和比赛。我恨我的脚，我太爱我的跑道我的栏，如果没有脚伤，我......可惜这个世界没有如果，伤病是我自己造成的，我只能默默接受。有心无力是沮丧的，是痛苦的，这两年多虽然每时每刻我都在纠结，但今天，我决定放弃，选择离开，我要新的生活。”
In 2004, Mr. Liu became the first Chinese man to win an Olympic gold medal in track, taking the 110-meter hurdles at the Athens Games with a time that tied the world record. Two years later he broke the world record, become the first man to run the race in under 12.9 seconds. In 2007, he won the world championships in the event.Mr. Liu, whose given name — Xiang (翔) — means to soar, came into the 2008 Beijing Olympics under intense pressure. State news media said that Chinese citizens’ greatest desire for the Games was for Mr. Liu to defend his 2004 title.
2004年，刘翔成为中国第一位赢得奥运田径金牌的运动员，以平世界纪录的成绩，在雅典奥运会上获得了110米跨栏冠军。两年后，他打破世界纪录，成为第一位以12.9秒的成绩跑下全程的人。 2007年，他在世锦赛再次获得110米栏冠军。他名“翔”，是飞的意思，参加2008年北京奥运会时，他面临着巨大的压力。国家新闻媒体称，中国公民对那届奥运会的最大愿望是，刘翔为自己2004年的冠军卫冕。
“Officials from the State General Administration of Sports once told us if Liu could not win a gold in Beijing, all of his previous achievements would become meaningless,” his coach, Sun Haiping, told China Daily in 2007.
2007年，刘翔的教练孙海平在接受《中国日报》采访时说，国家体育总局的领导曾经对刘翔说，如果他不能在北京奥运会上赢得金牌，他过去取得的所有成绩将没有任何意义。
But Mr. Liu pulled a hamstring that season and came into the Games nursing an inflammation of his right Achilles’ tendon. He limped out of a preliminary heat of the 110-meter hurdles, leaving his coach and fans in tears.
但是刘翔在那一个赛季拉伤了腿筋，在北京奥运会的赛场上，他正在治疗右脚的跟腱发炎。在110米跨栏的预赛中，刘翔一瘸一拐地退出了比赛，令他的教练和众多粉丝留下了眼泪。
He continued to face injuries in the following years. In 2012, he crashed out of the London Olympics when he tore his right Achilles’ tendon as he tried to clear the first hurdle in another heat. He hopped along the side of the track for the length of the race and then kissed the final hurdle before he was taken away in a wheelchair.
在接下来的数年中，刘翔继续面对伤病困扰。2012年，在伦敦奥运会上，刘翔在预赛中准备跨越第一道栏架时，撞栏摔倒，撕裂了右跟腱。刘翔单腿跳过终点，并亲吻终点前的栏架。随后，刘翔被用轮椅推出赛场。
Mr. Liu has not competed since, but this year he was again trying to rehabilitate his injured Achilles’ tendon. His tendon did not appear to have healed during testing in February, his coach said, according to the state news agency Xinhua. They planned to see in the spring if it had improved and then make a final decision about the future of his career, Mr. Sun said.
刘翔自那之后便停止了比赛，今年，他准备再次恢复他受伤的跟腱。2月他的教练对国有媒体新华社表示，在一次试赛时，刘翔的跟腱依然没有复原。他们准备在今年春天观察他的伤势是否好转，并做出关于刘翔职业生涯的最终决定。