Educators, politicians and diplomats from China and Albania gathered last week to celebrate the opening of a new Confucius Institute at the University of Tirana, which welcomed the Chinese government-backed program whose mission is to promote Chinese language and culture abroad.
上周，来自中国和阿尔巴尼亚的教育工作者、政界人士和外交官一起庆祝了地拉那大学(University of Tirana)孔子学院的启用。对于中国政府支持的这项以在海外传播汉语言及中国文化为使命的项目，地拉那大学很欢迎。
The event at the university in the Albanian capital made few headlines. Speakers offered the standard phrases that feature at such affairs, heralding the establishment of the institute as a “fresh impetus” in bilateral relations and an opportunity to deepen governmental and commercial ties. Even for the Confucius Institute’s administrators back in Beijing, the new branch — the first in the small Mediterranean country — may have been seen as just the latest step in what has been a decade-long, multimillion-dollar cultural diplomacy effort spanning 117 countries and regions.
在阿尔巴尼亚首都这所大学里进行的活动并没有吸引多少媒体的关注。与会发言人的讲话内容也是这种场合里常见的辞令，宣布孔子学院的成立是双边关系发展的“新动力”，也是加深政府间和商业界联系的机会。在这个地中海小国，这是第一所孔子学院，但对孔子学院北京的管理人员来说，这所新学校也无非是这个已经持续10年、耗资数百万美元的文化外交项目的最新一步发展。截至目前，孔子学院已在117个国家和地区建立了分支。
But when considered against the backdrop of postwar history, the creation of a Chinese cultural exchange center in a country that now considers itself to be one of America’s staunchest allies takes on new import. Less than a half-century ago, in the 1960s and early 1970s, China and Albania were close allies at a time when neither country could lay claim to many friends. Based in a common ideology and, more important, a jointly held enmity toward the Soviet Union, the unlikely alliance ran so deep that “to criticize Albania,” as the historian Jonathan Spence once wrote, “was, in the eyes of informed observers, to criticize China.”
但是考虑到二战后历史发展的背景，在一个将自己视作美国坚定盟友的国家，成立这样一所中国文化交流中心就有了不同的意义。不到50年前，在20世纪60年代和70年代早期，中国和阿尔巴尼亚两国都没有多少朋友时，它们曾是亲密的盟友。这种看似不可能的联盟建立的基础是相同的意识形态，以及对苏联共同的敌视，后者更为重要。这种联盟如此牢固，以至于历史学家史景迁(Jonathan Spence)曾这样写道，“在一些熟悉情况的观察家看来，批评阿尔巴尼亚就如同批评中国。”
The two Communist countries had drifted closer in the years after Stalin’s death in 1953, as each grew increasingly apprehensive of Soviet intentions and Nikita Khrushchev’s de-Stalinization campaign. By December 1960, China and Albania found themselves aligned not only ideologically against what they called the Soviet “revisionists,” but strategically as well. For Enver Hoxha, the headstrong Communist leader in Albania, an alliance with China represented an opportunity to shake off Soviet control and come under the wing of a new protector state. For Mao Zedong and the Chinese leadership, it was a chance to stake out a beachhead in Europe from which to challenge Moscow’s dominance in Eastern Europe.
在斯大林于1953年去世以后的岁月里，随着这两个共产党统治的国家对苏联的企图越来越担心，同时尼基塔·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita Khrushchev)又发动了去斯大林化的运动，这两个国家开始越走越近。到1960年12月，中国和阿尔巴尼亚发现两国不仅在意识形态上一致，都反对它们所说的苏联“修正主义”，而且在战略上也一致。对于刚愎自用的阿尔巴尼亚共产党领袖恩维尔·霍查(Enver Hoxha)来说，与中国结盟是一个摆脱苏联控制的机会，借此机会也可以投身于一个新庇护国的怀抱之中。对于毛泽东和中国领导人来说，他们也因此有机会在欧洲部署一座桥头堡，从那里挑战莫斯科在东欧的强势地位。
To be sure, the alliance was by no means untroubled. In his memoirs, Hoxha complained of the difficulties he encountered trying to get the Chinese to reply to his letters and at least once, of what he called Prime Minister Zhou Enlai’s “dirty, feudal, fascist mentality.”
当然，这个联盟也绝不是没有一点问题。霍查在回忆录中曾抱怨，要让中国方面回复他的信件有多难，还至少一次提到对中国总理周恩来“肮脏、腐朽、法西斯主义的思维方式”感到不满。
But to the rest of the world, starting from 1960, there was no questioning where loyalties lay.
但是在世界其他国家看来，从1960年起，它们的相互忠诚就是无需质疑的。
“It was clear that Moscow, Tirana and Peiping were in agreement on at least one of Khrushchev’s formulations,” the C.I.A., using an earlier rendering for Beijing, noted in a since declassified intelligence document. This was “that ‘The U.S.S.R. has lost an Albania’ while ‘China has gained an Albania.’”
“很明显，莫斯科、地拉那和北平至少就赫鲁晓夫的一个想法达成了一致，”中央情报局(CIA)在一份后来解密的情报文件中指出，北平是北京的旧称。那就是“‘苏联失去了一个阿尔巴尼亚’，而‘中国赢得了一个阿尔巴尼亚’”。
The informal alliance was accompanied by economic and cultural exchanges that far exceeded what Tirana’s new Confucius Institute could hope to achieve today.
随着这种非正式结盟而来的则是经济和文化交流，其程度远非如今地拉那新开设的孔子学院所能企及。
Through the 1960s and ’70s, Albania benefited enormously from China’s financial largess, in the form of a $125 million loan agreement providing food, raw materials, technical assistance and equipment, and cash. Photographs from the era show uniformed Albanian youths poring over Mao’s “Quotations” while Albanian farmers can be seen driving tractors emblazoned with the Chinese characters for “People’s Republic of China.”
上世纪60、70年代，中国的慷慨解囊让阿尔巴尼亚大大受益，双方签订了价值1.25亿美元（约合7.62亿元人民币）的贷款协议，中国为阿尔巴尼亚提供食品、原材料、技术支持、设备，以及现金。那个时代的照片显示，身穿制服的阿尔巴尼亚年轻人聚精会神地阅读毛泽东“语录”，阿尔巴尼亚的农民则开着印有汉字“中华人民共和国”的拖拉机。
China’s generosity toward Albania sometimes came at the expense of its own citizens. In his memoirs, Wang Hongqi, a journalist for Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, who was stationed in Tirana for 22 years, cited one particularly egregious instance when emergency grain shipments from Canada destined for famine-devastated China were suddenly diverted to Albania.
中国对阿尔巴尼亚的慷慨支援有时是以牺牲本国公民的利益为代价的。中国官方新闻机构新华社的记者王洪起在地拉那驻站22年，他在回忆录里提到了一个极其恶劣的例子，在中国正遭受饥荒之时，从加拿大紧急运往中国的一批粮食却突然被转往阿尔巴尼亚。
According to Mr. Wang, many Chinese did not understand the reasons for their government’s magnanimity. “In private everyone said it was like swelling one’s face up by slapping it to look more imposing,” wrote Mr. Wang, using a Chinese idiom that means seeking to impress by feigning more than one’s abilities.
王洪起表示，很多中国人不理解政府的慷慨。王洪起写道，“人们私下里说这是打肿脸充胖子。”这句中国习语指的是为撑面子而装出有实力的样子。
Nonetheless, the alliance flourished in the late 1960s during China’s Cultural Revolution. Chinese propaganda posters depicted cheerful Albanian and Chinese workers with slogans such as “Long live the eternal and unbreakable friendship in battle between the peoples of China and Albania!”
尽管如此，上世纪60年代末，也就是文化大革命期间，中阿两国的联盟取得了繁荣发展。中国的宣传海报描绘了一幅中阿两国工人兴高采烈的样子，还配有像“中阿两国人民永恒的、牢不可破的战斗友谊万岁！”这样的标语。
In cinemas, many of the foreign films shown were Albanian, whose themes typically fell into one of three categories: war, class struggle or socialist living.
电影院放映的外国电影中有很多都来自阿尔巴尼亚，其主题通常有三个：战争、阶级斗争、社会主义生活。
For many Chinese, the posters and films were for a time their primary exposure to foreign faces. In her best-selling memoir “Wild Swans,” Jung Chang wrote of a young man whose large, “somewhat un-Chinese” nose earned him the nickname Al, for “Albanian.” “In those days,” Ms. Chang noted, “the only foreigners whose pictures we saw often were Albanians.”
对于很多中国人来说，他们在一段时期里接触的外国面孔主要就来自这些海报及电影。在畅销的回忆录《鸿》(Wild Swans)中，张戎提到一名男青年因为自己“有点非中国式”的大鼻子而获得了一个绰号——“阿尔”，意为“阿尔巴尼亚”。“那时候，”张戎指出，“我们所看到的外国人的照片通常都是阿尔巴尼亚人。”
Ties between the two countries began to deteriorate in the 1970s, particularly as China began to make overtures to restore relations with the United States. In 1978, 18 years after the partnership was formed, Deng Xiaoping ordered an end to all financial and technical assistance, effectively terminating the alliance.
两国关系从上70年代开始恶化，特别是当中国开始主动修复与美国的关系时。1978年，也就是在中阿建立伙伴关系18年后，邓小平下令终止对阿尔巴尼亚的经济和技术援助，从此结束了联盟关系。
As the global order shifted in the intervening years, the relationship between the two countries has been emphatically downgraded.
随后的那些年，随着国际秩序的转变，中阿关系急转直下。
These days, Albania is a member of the NATO military alliance and has applied for membership in the European Union. Meanwhile, mainland China has acquired a United Nations Security Council seat, is a member of the World Trade Organization and a signatory to numerous international conventions. It is a stark contrast to the time when the Chinese Communists were the one party with whom the Albanians would march together, as an Albanian spokesman once said, “through any storm or tempest.”
如今，阿尔巴尼亚是北大西洋公约组织(NATO)军事联盟的成员，也已申请加入欧盟。与此同时，中国已经成为联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)的一员，加入了世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)，还是大量国际公约的缔约国。这与那个时代形成了鲜明的对比，彼时，阿尔巴尼亚的一位发言人曾宣称，中国共产党是阿尔巴尼亚愿意携手共进，“历经任何风暴”的唯一政党。