In all the bravura of the recent $45 billion offer by President Xi Jinping of China to build roads, rails and dams in Pakistan, it was hard to decipher when construction would begin, and what in a long list of infrastructure projects would be tackled first.
在中国国家主席习近平最近向巴基斯坦提供的450亿美元（约和2800亿元人民币）的公路、铁路和水坝建设项目的美好远景中，令人难以辨别的是施工何时会开始，再就是在这个基础设施项目长长的名单上，哪个项目会首先开工。
One clue emerged in the announcement in the Chinese state news media last week, after Mr. Xi left Pakistan: A modest-size dam on the Jhelum River at a site 35 miles east of the capital, Islamabad, will be the first project financed by China’s $40 billion Silk Road Fund.
习近平离开巴基斯坦之后，一条线索在中国国家新闻媒体上周的公告中出现了：第一个项目将是吉拉姆河上的一座中型水电站，站址位于首都伊斯兰堡以东约35英里的地方，项目由中国出资400亿美元成立的丝路基金资助。
That fund was established to finance projects in China’s Silk Road Economic Belt and Maritime Silk Road, plans often cited by Mr. Xi that are intended to connect China to Europe over land through Central Asia and Russia, and by ports through a separate maritime route.
成立丝路基金是为中国的丝绸之路经济带和海上丝绸之路项目融资，习近平经常提到这两个计划，说它们的目的是用经过中亚和俄罗斯的陆路、以及另一条海上通道沿线港口将中国与欧洲连接起来。
Power shortages in Pakistan are so dire — largely because few individuals or government departments, including the military, pay for electricity — that the country’s National Planning Commission estimated in 2012 that a lack of energy reduced economic growth by at least 2 percent. Hydropower is seen as an answer.The Karot dam, as the structure on the Jhelum River is to be called, is expected to cost $1.65 billion and will be financed on a commercial basis, the Chinese state news media said. According to the website of the People’s Bank of China, China’s central bank, the Silk Road Fund and the World Bank will buy shares in China Three Gorges South Asia Investment Ltd., a subsidiary of the Three Gorges Corporation, a state-run behemoth that builds dams at home and, increasingly, abroad.
巴基斯坦的电力短缺情况极为严重，这主要是因为该国很少有人支付电费，包括军队在内的政府部门也如此。据巴基斯坦国家计划委员会2012年的估计，能源缺乏使该国经济增长至少降低2％。水电被视为是解决方案。中国国家媒体报道说，吉拉姆河上修建的项目名为卡洛特水电站，预计耗资16.5亿美元，项目将进行商业融资。据中国央行中国人民银行网站上的信息，丝路基金和世界银行将购买中国长江三峡集团公司子公司中国三峡南亚投资有限公司的股份，三峡总公司是在国内修建水坝、也越来越多地在国外修建水坝的国有超级公司。
The Silk Road Fund, along with the Export-Import Bank of China and the China Development Bank, will issue loans to the Karot Power Company, which is in turn a subsidiary of China Three Gorges South Asia Investment, for the construction.
丝路基金与中国进出口银行、中国发展银行一起将向负责建设项目的三峡南亚子公司卡洛特水电公司提供贷款。
The power generated by the dam will be sold to Pakistan’s national grid, a creaky system that leaks electricity and is run by utilities often described as ridden with corruption.
水坝发的电力将出售给巴基斯坦的国家电网，这个国家电网非常破旧，其输送的电力经常被偷，而且经营电网的公用事业单位被描述为腐败缠身。
Pakistan’s need for dams fits neatly with China’s dam-building prowess. Chinese companies and banks are now the biggest builders and financiers of global dam-building. They are involved in some 330 dams in 74 countries, mostly in Asia and Africa, according to International Rivers, a nongovernmental organization that works to protect rivers and communities affected by dams.
巴基斯坦对水电的需要非常符合中国修建大坝的实力。中国企业和银行目前是全球最大的水坝建造商和水电项目投资者。根据国际河流组织(International Rivers)统计，中国公司参与了74个国家中约330个水电项目，主要集中在亚洲和非洲，该非政府组织旨在保护河流和受水坝项目影响的社区。
China is not a newcomer to dams in Pakistan. Sinohydro, another state-owned company, built the Gomal Zam Dam in South Waziristan, in the ungoverned tribal areas where the Taliban freely operate. Several Chinese engineers were kidnapped during the dam’s construction.
这不是中国首次在巴基斯坦修建水坝。另一家国有企业中国水电(Sinohydro)曾在南瓦济里斯坦修建了高玛赞大坝，那里是塔利班自由出没、无人管辖的部落地区。曾有几名中国工程师在大坝建设过程中被绑架。
Under the terms of the package announced by Mr. Xi, China has demanded protection for its workers at new projects, and the Pakistanis are delivering. According to Dawn, a Pakistani newspaper, the government is creating a new special army division of 10,000 troops that will be headed by a two-star general and dedicated to the Chinese workers. The force will include contingents from the Special Services Group, Pakistan’s elite commando force, and will have its own air support.
按照习近平宣布的计划条款，中国要求其参加新项目的工人得到保护，巴基斯坦人正在努力提供这种保护。据巴基斯坦《黎明》报报道，政府正在成立一支由一名二星将军领导的1万人部队，专门为中国工人提供保护。这支部队将包括来自巴基斯坦精锐突击队陆军特种部队(Special Services Group)的人员，并拥有自己的空中力量。
Since the completion of major dam-building projects in China, the Three Gorges Corporation has been hunting for business abroad, and it has been willing to take on environmentally risky projects where it has faced heated local opposition along the Amazon and in the rain forests of Sarawak, Malaysia, said Peter Bosshard, interim executive director of International Rivers.
国际河流组织代理执行主任白好德(Peter Bosshard)说，自从完成了中国的主要水坝建设项目之后，三峡总公司一直在海外寻找业务，并一直愿意承担环境风险较大的项目，三峡总公司的项目在亚马逊河、以及马来西亚沙捞越热带雨林等地面临着当地人的激烈反对。
But more recently the company has met with International Rivers to discuss environmental issues, Mr. Bosshard said. It was encouraging, he said, that the company was not embarking on building the $8.5 billion Diamer-Bhasha dam on the Indus River in Pakistan, which has long been delayed for a number of reasons, including potential environmental damage and social dislocation. That dam will have a generating capacity of 4,500 megawatts and would flood the farms of 35,000 people, International Rivers says.
白好德说，但最近三峡总公司已与国际河流组织进行过有关环境问题的讨论。他说，令人鼓舞的是，公司将不在巴基斯坦的印度河段修建造价为85亿美元的迪阿莫-巴沙大坝(Diamer-Bhasha Dam)，该项目因各种原因已多次被推迟，包括潜在的环境破坏和社会混乱。国际河流组织说，该大坝将具有4500兆瓦的发电能力，并将淹没生活着35000人的农庄。
By contrast, the Karot dam, according to the builder’s environmental impact statement, would generate about 720 megawatts of power and result in about 500 people losing their land. Construction is expected to start at the end of this year, Karot Power says.
相比之下，据建造商的环境影响报告，卡洛特电站的装机容量约为72万千瓦，会让约500人失去他们的土地。卡洛特电站工程表示，预计在今年年底开始施工。