SURABAYA, Indonesia — The docks at big Indonesian ports like this one are quieter these days, as China’s demand for raw materials has begun to cool.
印度尼西亚泗水——这些天，随着中国对原材料的需求开始降温，泗水等印尼大港的码头变得比以前安静了。
But drive an hour inland and the agricultural giant Cargill is racing to finish a cocoa-bean processing plant, while a large instant-noodle factory is running full tilt to meet the demand for convenience food from Indonesia’s large and growing middle class. “We’re having quite a tough time keeping up,” said Tjun Sulestio, a general manager of the noodle factory, run by PT. Suprama.
不过，开车向内陆行驶一个小时，你就会看到农业巨头嘉吉公司(Cargill)正在加速建设一个可可豆加工厂，一家大型方便面厂也正在开足马力，以便满足规模庞大且日益壮大的印尼中产阶级对方便食品的需求。这家方便面厂属于Suprama有限公司，该厂总经理特均·苏勒斯图(Tjun Sulestio)说，“我们现在很难跟上需求的增长。”
The contrast in many emerging markets between signs of a looming currency crisis and strong domestic demand is visible around the world. Stock markets and currencies have fallen in recent months in places like Buenos Aires; Jakarta, Indonesia; Manila, and Istanbul, as investors have worried that weaker Chinese growth and a United States Federal Reserve that is pumping out fewer dollars will cause a global stumble in many developing nations.
在全球各地的很多新兴市场当中，都可以看到这种隐约的汇率危机迹象与国内市场强烈需求形成的鲜明对比。由于投资者担心中国经济增长放缓和美联储(United States Federal Reserve)减少资金注入的举措会使全球各地的众多发展中国家陷入困境，最近几个月，布宜诺斯艾利斯、雅加达、马尼拉和伊斯坦布尔等地的股市和币值都有下滑。
Like limbo dancers struggling to shuffle under a low bar before standing upright again, emerging markets must shuffle along under weak commodity exports and capital outflows before they can recover their balance and let strong domestic demand for products like cars, electronics and instant noodles carry their economies forward again. The question is whether their consumers and businesses will continue to spend, or whether international troubles will spill into domestic economies in ways they cannot control.
就像努力钻过低矮横杆以图重新站直的林波舞者一样，新兴市场必须渡过商品出口低迷、资本外流的难关，以便恢复平衡，让国内市场对汽车、电子产品、方便面等产品的强劲需求再次推动经济发展。问题在于，国内的顾客和企业会不会继续消费，国际问题又会不会以它们无法控制的方式影响国内经济。
“We don’t want that bar to go too low,” said Jakob F. Sorensen, the chairman of the European Business Chamber of Commerce in Indonesia. “The lower it goes, the harder it will be.”
“我们不希望横杆降得太低，”印尼欧洲商会(European Business Chamber of Commerce)主席雅各布·F·索伦森(Jakob F. Sorensen)说。“降得越低，情况就越艰难。”
There are reasons for optimism. Many stock markets in emerging economies have rebounded in the past week. International problems have not yet caused the bank runs and large-scale flight of international investors that made previous crises so severe, like the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998.
我们有理由保持乐观态度。很多新兴经济体的股市都在过去一周出现了回弹。国际问题还没有导致银行挤兑和国际投资者大规模撤退，这些情况曾导致极其严重的危机，比如1997至1998年的亚洲金融危机。
Central banks in emerging markets have gone out of their way to accumulate rainy-day funds of dollars and other foreign currencies. With the conspicuous exception of China, bank regulators in emerging markets have also imposed tougher lending regulations and kept shadow banking operations on tight leashes.
新兴市场的中央银行已经在想尽办法积累应急美元资金和其他外汇。除去中国这个显著例外，新兴市场的银行监管机构已经对借贷实施了更加严格的监管，严控影子银行的操作。
While emerging markets may face trouble from beyond their borders, in many of them spending at home has seldom been so strong. Many businesses are even struggling to find enough workers.
虽然新兴市场可能受到国外问题的影响，但在其中的很多国家，国内消费达到了此前少有的强劲程度。许多公司甚至很难找到足够的工人。
India and Indonesia suffered large declines in their currencies and stock markets last summer, lasting through early autumn, after Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve at the time, indicated in May that the Fed would start easing back on measures that helped keep longer-term rates at historically low levels. Mr. Bernanke’s warnings had the effect of attracting money from overseas investors to the United States.
去年5月，时任美联储主席的本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)表示，美联储将开始减少促使长期利率保持历史最低水平的举措，之后，也就是从夏天到秋初，印度和印度尼西亚的币值和股市出现大幅下滑。伯克南的警告促使海外投资者将资金转入美国。
Both India and Indonesia have since sharply narrowed the deficits in their current accounts, a broad measure of trade and financing. They allowed significant depreciation in their currencies last summer, which made imports more expensive and their exports more competitive.
此后，印度和印尼已经大幅削减了经常账户的赤字，这是衡量贸易及融资状况的一个宽泛标准。去年夏天，两国任由本币大幅贬值，致使进口商品价格抬高，出口产品更具竞争力。
As a result, both countries have less need of further foreign investment in their financial markets, although they could still be hurt if overseas investors withdrew money that they had already put in.
因此，两国金融市场对更多外国投资的需求有所减小，不过，如果海外投资者撤回已经投入的资金，它们仍可能受到损害。
“There definitely will be an effect of both the Fed tapering and a cooling China,” said Saugata Bhattacharya, chief economist at Axis Bank in Mumbai. But “India is definitely better prepared today to deal with these foreign shocks than it was nine months ago.”
“美联储减少刺激措施的举措和中国增长的降温肯定会带来影响，”孟买艾克塞斯银行(Axis Ban)首席经济学家绍加塔·巴塔查里亚(Saugata Bhattacharya)说，“但与九个月前相比，印度如今肯定有了更为充分的准备，可以应对外来的冲击。”
Political troubles have played a role in market declines in countries like Turkey and Argentina. They have also played a role in Asia, most notably in Thailand, where Bangkok has been clogged with demonstrators for weeks.
政治动荡是土耳其和阿根廷等国市场下跌的原因之一。这个因素也对亚洲产生了影响，最明显的是在泰国。数周以来，曼谷一直挤满了抗议者。
Yet even the Thai tourism industry seems to be weathering the difficulties surprisingly well so far. “Even though everyone says the economies in China and India are having problems, we still see increases in their numbers” of tourists, said Pornthip Hiranyakij, the managing director of Destination Asia, a travel company.
然而，迄今为止，泰国旅游业似乎挺过了这些困难，表现出色得令人惊讶。旅游公司亚洲胜地(Destination Asia)的总经理蓬提普·希兰耶基(Pornthip Hiranyakij )说，“尽管大家都说中国和印度的经济有问题，我们依然看到了这两个国家游客人数的增长。”
The big question now is how much further growth in China will slow. A serious cutback in China’s demand would not just harm emerging markets’ shipments directly to China, it would also cause further erosion in the already falling world prices for emerging markets’ coal, copper, palm oil and other commodities.
目前的关键问题是，中国的增长还会放慢多少。中国需求的大幅缩减不仅会影响新兴市场对中国的直接出口，还会导致新兴市场的煤、铜、棕榈油等大宗商品的全球价格进一步下跌。这些商品的价格本来就已经在不断下滑。
Jianguang Shen, an economist in the Hong Kong office of Mizuho Securities, last week labeled troubles in China’s so-called shadow banking sector the biggest potential threat to that country’s economic growth this year.
上周，瑞穗银行(Mizuho Securities)驻香港办公室的经济学家沈建光指出，中国的所谓影子银行业是中国经济增长今年面临的最大潜在威胁。
China has been able to contain meltdowns in the shadow banking sector to a few cities so far. But they have been spectacular where they have occurred, as in Shenmu in the northwest, where all but one of the car dealerships failed last summer, and scores of other businesses closed.
到目前为止，中国设法把影子银行业的崩溃限制在少数几个城市之内。但在出现崩溃的地方，问题都很严重。例子之一是位于中国西北的神木，去年夏天，那里的汽车经销商都倒闭了，只有一家幸免，另外几十家企业也已关门大吉。
HSBC, the global bank, calculates that growth in China’s economy now adds twice as many dollars to annual global demand as growth in the United States economy and far more than the anemic economies of the European Union. “China needs to keep humming, or U.S. and E.U. growth would need to step up meaningfully to make up the difference,” said Frederic Neumann, the bank’s co-head of Asian economic research.
根据全球性银行汇丰银行(HSBC)的计算，目前，中国经济的增长对全球年需求的贡献是美国经济增长的两倍，同时也远高于欧盟虚弱的经济。“中国必须保持高速增长，如其不然，美国和欧盟的增长就必须实现实质性的上扬，这样才能弥补差额，”汇丰银行亚洲经济研究联合主管弗雷德里克·诺伊曼(Frederic Neumann)说。
One way for developing countries in South and Southeast Asia to avoid being clobbered by weaker commodity exports is for them to displace China’s own increasingly high-cost producers of coal, aluminum and other minerals. Some of that is already happening, with China announcing on Wednesday a jump in imports during January.
对南亚和东南亚的发展中国家而言，避免受商品出口疲软影响的办法之一是取代中国的煤、铝和其他矿物生产商，这些中国厂商的成本已经越来越高。这个方法已经部分变成了现实，因为中国周三宣布，1月份进口出现了大幅增长。
Another tactic is for emerging markets to start replacing China as the preferred locale for making export goods like clothing, shoes and electronics. Blue-collar wages have increased at least fivefold in China over the last decade, prompting a few industries, including garment and shoe production, to start shifting to Southeast Asia.
新兴市场的另一个策略是开始取代中国，成为服装、鞋和电子产品等出口货物的首选生产地。过去十年，中国蓝领工人的工资增加了至少五倍，促使包括制衣和制鞋在内的一些行业开始向东南亚转移。
China is still gaining global market share in consumer electronics, however. That may change, though not rapidly enough to help emerging markets this year.
然而，在电子消费品行业，中国在全球市场的份额依然在增加。这一点可能会发生变化，变化的速度却不足以在今年帮到新兴市场。
Bayu Krisnamurthi, Indonesia’s vice minister of trade, said in an interview in Jakarta that the Foxconn Technology Group of Taiwan, the main manufacturer of Apple devices, as well as other consumer electronics, was preparing to build a large factory in Indonesia. “The other brands will come in their footsteps,” he said.
印尼贸易部副部长巴尤·克里希那穆提(Bayu Krisnamurthi)在雅加达接受采访时说，台湾富士康科技集团(Foxconn Technology Group)正准备在印尼兴建一座大型工厂。富士康是苹果(Apple)设备及其他一些电子消费品的主要制造商。“其他品牌也会随之而来，”他说。
Foxconn said in an email reply to questions on Friday that “we are currently in discussions with potential local partners and government officials, a process we expect to finalize in 2014.”
周五，富士康在一封回复采访问题的邮件中称，“我们目前正在同当地的潜在合作伙伴及政府官员进行讨论，这一过程有望在2014年结束。”
Indonesia was once a symbol of everything that could go wrong in a commodity-dependent country during tough times. During the Asian financial crisis, banks collapsed and civil unrest forced a change of government.
印尼曾经是一个象征，体现着依赖大宗商品的国家在困难时期可能出现的一切问题。亚洲金融危机期间，银行倒闭和民众骚乱迫使该国发生了政权更迭。
But at least for now, Rolls-Royces can still be seen purring through the streets of Surabaya, Indonesia’s second-largest city, and new apartment buildings are still under construction.
不过，至少是从目前来看，印尼第二大城市泗水依然有劳斯莱斯(Rolls-Royce)在大街上行驶，依然有在建的公寓大楼。
Whenever global economic troubles threaten, “people are calling for the end of the world in Indonesia,” said Jean-Louis Guillou, the president of Cargill’s Indonesia operations. “And so far, I haven’t seen the evidence for that.”
每当全球经济问题带来威胁时，“印尼总是有人呼喊世界末日就要来了，”嘉吉印尼分公司主管让-路易斯·吉尤(Jean-Louis Guillou)说。“迄今为止，我还没看到相关证据。”