HONG KONG — China’s Commerce Ministry issued a cautiously worded statement on Thursday evening that “expressed regret” that the Obama administration had started a trade case at the World Trade Organization challenging Chinese subsidies.
香港——中国商务部周四晚发布了一份措辞谨慎的声明，就奥巴马政府在世界贸易组织（World Trade Organization，简称WTO）提起反对中国补贴的贸易诉讼“表示遗憾”。
The ministry defended Chinese policies aimed at providing assistance to exporters’ administrators without directly covering part of the actual cost of producing and shipping goods. In announcing the trade case on Wednesday, the Obama administration said the programs violated the W.T.O.’s prohibition on export subsidies.
中国商务部辩护称其政策旨在为出口商的管理者提供帮助，并没有直接支付商品在生产和运输过程中的部分实际成本。周三，在宣布提起贸易诉讼时，奥巴马政府称该项目违反了WTO对出口补贴的禁令。
China’s policies are “part of the transformation and upgrade of our foreign trade,” the Chinese ministry said. “We hope that the W.T.O. will appropriately handle this based on the dispute resolution process.”
商务部称，中国的政策是“转变外贸发展方式，促进对外贸易健康稳定发展的重要举措”。中方“将根据世贸组织争端解决程序予以妥善处理”。
China has long tended to respond more mildly to challenges at multilateral forums, like W.T.O. cases, than to unilateral trade measures like antidumping tariffs, imposed when an exporter is suspected of selling a product at a price below the cost of manufacturing it.
相比于单边的贸易措施，例如反倾销关税，中国在如WTO诉讼这样的多边论坛上一直以来倾向以更温和的态度回应。反倾销关税在出口商被怀疑以低于产品制造成本的价格出售商品时征收。
The administration accused China of providing almost $1 billion in illegal subsidies over three years by offering so-called common service platforms to help exporters, and that China set up 179 “demonstration bases” for exporters, providing at least $635,000 apiece at some of the bases.
奥巴马政府指控中国在过去三年中通过所谓的公共服务平台帮助出口企业，提供了将近10亿美元（约合62亿元人民币）的非法补贴。奥巴马政府声称，中国为出口企业设立了179个“示范基地”，其中一些基地向每个出口企业提供至少63.5万美元。
The Obama administration’s action appeared to be aimed as much at placating Congress as at confronting China. The administration is trying to convince lawmakers that it can be trusted to defend American trade interests. In exchange, the administration is asking Congress to approve authority for it to negotiate trade pacts and submit them to Congress for approval on a yes-or-no vote, with no amendments allowed.
奥巴马政府的行动看起来是一箭双雕，在对抗中国的同时安抚国会。政府正在试图让国会议员相信，他们可以在保护美国贸易利益上被委以信任。作为交换，奥巴马政府正申请国会授权其对贸易协定展开谈判，该申请以“赞成或反对”投票的形式提交，不允许提出修正案。
The administration contends that other governments will not reveal their bottom-line negotiating position in talks for the creation of a trade agreement called the Trans-Pacific Partnership if they think that they might then be asked for another round of concessions before any deal can be approved by Congress.
奥巴马政府称，如果其他国家政府认为，要让国会批准协议，他们将被要求作出新一轮的让步，他们就不会在建立跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）的谈判中亮出谈判立场底线。