HONG KONG — Chinese investors on Monday gave a frosty reception to the country’s plans to end a yearlong ban on new stock offerings, sending domestic markets down sharply.
香港——中国投资者周一对国家将结束长达一年的新股上市禁令的计划回应冷淡，国内股市大幅下跌。
China’s securities regulator announced on Saturday a package of overhauls to the domestic market for initial public offerings that could see new share sales resume as early as January, with a first batch of about 50 companies ready for listings.
中国证券监管机构周六宣布了一套方案，对国内市场的新股发行体制进行改革，最早可在1月份恢复新股上市，首批等待上市的公司已有约50家。
The new measures, which came after a major meeting of the Communist Party leadership last month that concluded with promises of sweeping financial overhauls, would unfreeze an I.P.O. market that has not seen a new listing since October 2012.
这些新的措施是在共产党领导人上月召开一次重要会议决定对金融市场进行大调整之后宣布的，这些措施将重启自2012年10月以来一直暂停的IPO市场。
The moratorium on share sales has created a tremendous backlog of Chinese companies seeking to tap investors for financing. As of Friday, 763 companies were waiting to list on domestic markets — with some of them on hold for several years — according to figures from the China Securities Regulatory Commission.
暂停新股上市使很多寻求通过上市融资的中国公司处在等待之中。根据中国证监会的数据，截至上周五，等待在国内市场上市的公司有763家，其中一些公司已经等了好几年。
An additional 145 companies have withdrawn their listing applications during the past year. Some of those companies that gave up opted instead for a Hong Kong listing, like the Bank of Chongqing, which raised more than $500 million in a Hong Kong I.P.O. in October. 
过去一年中已另有145家公司撤消了上市申请。其中一些公司放弃了国内市场转而去香港上市，比如重庆银行10月份在香港首次公开募股中筹资超过5亿美元（约合30亿元人民币）。
Now investors appear worried that a sudden wave of new listings will flood the Shanghai and Shenzhen markets and push down prices for I.P.O.'s and companies that are already listed.
目前，投资者看来担心突然袭来的新股上市浪潮将导致上海和深圳市场供过于求，压低IPO和已经上市公司的股价。
The ChiNext index, a secondary board in Shenzhen that mainly features start-up companies, fell 8.26 percent on Monday. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index closed down 0.59 percent, and the Shenzhen index ended 1.94 percent lower.
以创业公司为主的深圳二级市场创业板指数周一下跌了8.26%。作为基准的上证指数收盘时下跌了0.59%，深圳成指收盘时下跌了1.94%。
By contrast, shares in mainland Chinese stock brokerages rose on Monday, as investors bet they would see an increase in fees from handling the anticipated wave of new I.P.O.'s.
相比之下，大陆的中国股票交易所股价周一上涨，因为投资者打赌在对付期待的新上市浪潮中，交易所能拿到更多的手续费。
In addition to announcing the resumption of I.P.O.'s, the authorities also unveiled on Saturday several changes meant to partly shift market oversight from an approval-based regime, where the regulator vets deals individually, to a disclosure-based system where, similar to that in the United States, the burden of full compliance is on the companies.
除了宣布重启IPO之外，政府在上周六还公布了几项措施，旨在部分地将市场监管从基于审批的制度转变为类似于美国的基于信息披露的制度，在审批制度监管的市场中，监管机构需要对每家公司逐一审批，而在信息披露体系中，确保符合法规的负担落在公司头上。
The new measures include changes that would better protect minority shareholders and give the market a bigger role in the pricing of I.P.O.'s. They would also permit companies to buy back shares and issue preferred shares.
新措施包括更好地保护小股东以及让市场在IPO定价中发挥更大作用等改革。这些措施还允许公司回购股份并发行优先股。
“The latest reforms appear serious about tackling the chronic, longstanding problem of high I.P.O. valuations,” Steven Sun, the head of China equity strategy at HSBC, wrote Monday in a research report.
汇丰(HSBC)驻香港的首席中国策略师孙瑜(Steven Sun)周一在一份研究报告中写道，“最近的改革似乎要认真处理高IPO估值这个长期存在的问题。”
Mr. Sun noted that China has suspended new share offerings eight times in the 20 years since the country’s modern stock markets were set up, and that markets fell on five of seven occasions after the authorities announced I.P.O.'s were to resume.
孙瑜指出，自中国现代股票市场成立以来的过去20年中，国家曾8次暂停新股发行，在政府重启IPO的7次宣布中，有5次宣布后市场出现下跌。
He said the benchmark index in Shanghai, which is made up of large state and private companies, was not likely to be the worst affected. Smaller companies that trade on the ChiNext would feel the biggest drag, he added.
他说，作为基准的上证指数是由大型的国有企业和私有公司组成，它们受到严重影响的可能性不大。他补充说，那些在创业板交易的较小公司可能会受到最大的拖累。
The ChiNext index has more than doubled since November 2012 as speculators have driven up valuations, but it is expected to come under pressure in the coming months as many smaller and younger companies seek to list there.
自2012年11月以来，随着投机者抬高股市估值，创业板指数已经翻了一番以上，但在未来几个月中，随着许多更小更年轻的公司选择在这里上市，创业板指数预计会面临压力。
“ChiNext, given its hefty valuation and the bull run this year, might see a much bigger correction due to the anticipated supply shock,” Mr. Sun wrote.
孙瑜写道，“鉴于其巨额估值及其今年的牛市，创业板可能会由于期待中的供应激增而面临较大的调整。”