ROME — On a perfect May afternoon, with the Roman sunlight glinting off the ancient arches of the Colosseum, Officer Pang Bo adjusted his sunglasses and began his patrol. More or less. He walked around. He looked at tourists, and a few tourists looked at him. He posed for a few photographs.
罗马——一个美好的5月下午，罗马的阳光在斗兽场的古老拱门上闪耀，庞波警官扶了扶太阳镜，开始巡逻。多少也算是巡逻吧。他四下走动，看着游客，一些游客也看着他。他摆出姿势，让大家拍了几张照片。
In his dark-blue uniform and cap, Officer Pang is a top supervisor in one of China’s biggest police departments, in the southern metropolis of Guangzhou. But for two weeks, he and three other Chinese police officers are in Italy with strict orders: to protect Chinese tourists.
身着黑蓝色制服和帽子的庞波，是南方城市广州的公安局——中国最庞大的警察局之一——的高级警官。但是他和其他三名中国警察要在意大利工作两周。他们接到的命令很明确：保护中国游客。
That is, even if it isn’t completely clear how four Chinese cops divided between Rome and Milan can make a difference. Or what the tourists need to be protected from.
尽管尚不清楚在罗马和米兰的这四名中国警察能起到多大作用。同样不清楚的是游客在哪方面需要得到保护。
“The first day when we patrolled, the Chinese tourists saw us, and they were amazed,” said Officer Pang, 44.
“在我们巡逻的第一天，中国游客看到我们，觉得很惊奇，”44岁的庞波说。
Tourist season is in full bloom in Italy, and few countries are more important suppliers of tourists than China. Nearly three million Chinese visit Italy every year, a figure that is steadily rising, as Italy has become one of the top European destinations for Chinese tourists, along with France.
意大利进入了全面的旅游旺季，中国基本上是其最重要的游客来源地。每年有近300万中国人前往意大利旅游，这个数字还在稳步上升。对中国游客而言，意大利和法国一样，已经成为欧洲的顶级目的地之一。
In 2014, Chinese tourists spent 468 million euros (or about $569 million) in Italy, according to the Bank of Italy, and Italian leaders are trying to nurture closer economic ties to China. That was the year the two countries signed a bilateral police cooperation agreement, the first of its kind between China and a European nation.
意大利银行(Bank of Italy)的资料显示，2014年，中国游客在意大利消费了4.68亿欧元。意大利领导人正在努力与中国发展更紧密的经济联系。2014年两国还签署了双边警务合作协议，是中国和欧洲国家之间首个这样的协议。
But for some Chinese tourists, Italy and other European countries can mean anxiety and confusion. The recent terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels have raised security concerns for tourists coming to Europe, including Chinese visitors. And reports of petty crime are fairly common in Rome (and in cities like Barcelona and Paris), especially of pickpockets preying on Chinese tourists known for carrying cash.
但对于一些中国游客来说，意大利等欧洲国家可能意味着焦虑和困惑。近来巴黎和布鲁塞尔发生的恐怖袭击，让赴欧游客对安全感到担心，其中也包括中国游客。在罗马（以及巴塞罗那、巴黎那样的城市），轻微犯罪行为相当普遍，中国游客喜欢携带现金，特别容易被扒手盯上。
Such thefts are amplified on Chinese social media, as some travelers spin dark tales of stolen wallets, lost passports and Italian swindlers. These are problems that can arise for travelers from any country, except Chinese also face a cultural and linguistic divide in knowing how to seek help.
这种盗窃案在中国的社交媒体上被放大，一些旅行者讲述钱包被盗、丢失护照和遭遇意大利骗子的糟糕经历。这样的问题可能发生在任何国家的游客身上，但在寻求帮助的时候，中国人还面临着文化和语言障碍。
“It’s our duty to make Chinese fall in love with Rome and Italy,” said Alessandro Zucconi, the president of the Young Hoteliers Federation in Rome, who agreed that “misunderstandings” sometimes occur between the two cultures. “They are not like the Germans, who mostly come knowing our culture and literature better than we do.”
“让中国人爱上罗马和意大利，这是我们的职责，”罗马青年酒店业主联合会(Young Hoteliers Federation)主席亚历山德罗·祖科尼(Alessandro Zucconi)说。他同意两个不同文化之间有时会出现“误解”。“他们不像德国人，德国人大多比我们自己还了解这里的文化和文学。”
Enter Officer Pang and his cohort.
这就是庞警官及其同事的用武之地。
Beginning last week, they split into two-man teams in Rome and Milan. So far, it is not exactly tough police work.
从上周开始，他们分成两人一组，在罗马和米兰工作。目前为止，他们的警务工作都不困难。
Officer Pang and his partner, Li Xiang, have bumped into several Chinese tour groups but none have reported any problems. The Chinese officers do not have arrest powers in Italy, but they are paired with Italian officers who could arrest someone, except no arrests have been needed.
庞警官和伙伴李祥遇到了一些中国旅游团，但没有人报案。在意大利，中国警官没有权力逮捕人，但他们和有逮捕权的意大利警官结伴行动，只是到现在没有遇到过需要逮捕人的情况。
“So far, no,” said Officer Pang, who once worked as a peacekeeper in Bosnia and who speaks English, French, Mandarin and Cantonese. “We just help the people. Most of them say, ‘Oh, I’m very glad to see you. I’m glad you are here.’ ”
“到目前为止还没有遇到过，”庞警官说，“我们都是在为游客提供帮助。大多数人都说，‘噢，真高兴看到你。真高兴你在这里。’”庞警官曾在波黑参加维和行动，能说英语、法语、普通话和粤语。
In recent days, the state media outlets Xinhua, China Daily and Global Times have carried reports on the police program and quoted Italian officials lavishing praise on China.
近日来，国家官方媒体新华社、《中国日报》和《环球时报》均报道了这个警方行动，引述了意大利官员对中国的溢美之词。
“We are telling Italian citizens that their state is joining hands with a great country,” Italy’s interior minister, Angelino Alfano, told Xinhua, adding with a flourish that “China has a fundamental role in the world’s destiny.”
“我们告诉意大利民众，他们的国家正在与一个伟大的国家联手，”意大利内政部长安杰利诺·阿尔法诺(Angelino Alfano)对新华社说。他一边做着夸张的动作一边接着表示，“中国在决定世界命运中起着根本性的作用。”
Which is true. Italy once played a fundamental role in the world’s destiny but is now a medium-size nation with a rich cultural heritage trying to stimulate economic growth after a two-decade slump.
的确如此。意大利曾经也在决定世界命运中发挥着举足轻重的作用，但现在只是一个文化遗产丰富的中等规模国家。经历了20年的衰退后，意大利正在努力刺激经济增长。
Tourism is a critical sector. In a report this year, Italy’s Foreign Ministry cited the need to improve services for Chinese visitors, such as to provide more signs in Mandarin and also to be sensitive to the “perception of petty crime risks.”
旅游业是至关重要的一个行业。在今年的一份报告中，意大利外交部称需要提升对中国游客的服务，比如增加中文提示牌，以及密切注意“轻微犯罪风险给人留下的印象”。
Italian police officers are supposed to visit China next year — it is unclear if Italians need special protection in China — and officials have spoken of broader cooperation in the future.
意大利警察明年将会到中国去——尚不清楚意大利游客在中国是否需要特殊保护——官方提到未来会开展更广泛的合作。
Italian leaders are certainly eager to deepen economic ties. Prime Minister Matteo Renzi recently announced an agreement with Jack Ma, the executive chairman of the e-commerce giant Alibaba, to promote Italian wines in the Chinese market.
意大利领导人肯定渴望深化两国之间的经济往来。最近，意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)宣布了和中国电商巨头阿里巴巴的董事局主席马云达成的一项协议，内容是保护中国市场上的意大利葡萄酒。
Italian officials note that police teams from Spain, Poland and other countries, including the United States, have visited Rome. The New York Police Department sent over officers in December.
意大利官方指出，西班牙、波兰和包括美国在内的其他国家的警察都去过罗马。纽约警察局(New York Police Department)也于去年12月派了一些警察过去。
Out on the streets of Rome, Officer Pang and Officer Li strode down one of the capital’s busiest shopping streets, Via del Corso, parting a sea of tourists. When they came upon two young women from China, they stopped, chatted and posed for selfies.
在罗马的大街上，庞波和李祥沿着首都热闹的购物街之一科尔索大道(Via del Corso)，在如潮的游客中穿行。他们遇到两名来自中国的年轻姑娘，停下来聊了几句，并与她们自拍合影。
One of the women, who would identify herself only by her surname, Fang, was an exchange student at a local university. Though she had not experienced any problems in Rome, she seemed pleased to see Chinese officers on the streets.
其中一名只愿透露自己姓方（音）的姑娘，是当地一所大学的交换生。尽管未在罗马遇到任何问题，但她似乎对在大街上看到中国警察感到很高兴。
“They make me feel very safe in another country,” said Ms. Fang, 20.
“他们让我觉得在另一个国家非常安全，”20岁的她说。
Officer Pang acknowledged that four officers were not likely to make a big impact. But he said more officers could possibly come in the future. And clearly the publicity was raising awareness. Officer Pang said he had granted interviews to news media outlets from around the world.
庞波承认，四个警察不太可能产生很大的影响。但他说，将来可能会有更多警察来。并且显然相关宣传增强了民众的意识。庞波说，他可以接受世界各地的新闻媒体的采访。
He praised Rome and reminisced about his first visit 14 years ago, when he came as a tourist. Had he encountered any problems? Thick chested and beefy, Officer Pang looked out from behind his reflector shades, and then laughed.
他称赞了罗马，并回忆起了自己14年前以游客的身份第一次来罗马时的情形。遇到过什么问题吗？身材健硕的庞波透过反光太阳镜留意着周围，然后笑了。
“No, no problems,” he said.
“没有，没遇到什么问题，”他说。