BEIJING — Filthy emissions from China’s export industries are carried across the Pacific Ocean and contribute to air pollution in the Western United States, according to a paper published Monday by a prominent American science journal.
北京——美国一家知名科学期刊周一发表的一篇论文称，中国出口行业的肮脏排放物被卷携着飘过太平洋，对美国西部的空气造成了污染。
The research is the first to quantify how air pollution in the United States is affected by China’s production of goods for export and by global consumer demand for those goods, the study’s authors say. It was written by nine scholars based in three nations and was published by Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, which last year published a paper by other researchers that found a drop in life spans in northern China because of air pollution.
论文作者称，该研究首次量化了美国的空气污染在多大程度上是来自中国出口商品的生产，以及全球消费者对这些商品的需求。论文发表在《美国国家科学院院刊》(Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)上，由3个国家的9名学者合著。该刊还在去年发表了其他一些研究人员撰写的一篇论文。那篇论文发现，因为空气污染，中国北方人口的寿命缩短了。
The latest paper explores the environmental consequences of interconnected economies. The scientists wrote that “outsourcing production to China does not always relieve consumers in the United States — or for that matter many countries in the Northern Hemisphere — from the environmental impacts of air pollution.”
最近这篇论文探究了相互关联的经济体对彼此环境的影响。参与研究的科学家写道，“把生产外包给中国并非总能让美国——在这一点上，北半球的许多国家均如此——消费者免受空气污染的环境影响。”
The movement of air pollutants associated with the production of goods in China for the American market has resulted in a decline in the sulfate air quality in the Western United States, the scientists wrote, though less manufacturing in the United States does mean cleaner air in the American East.
他们写道，尽管美国制造业活动的减少的确意味着美国东部的空气更干净，但中国为美国市场生产商品所导致的空气污染物流动已经致使美国西部空气质量下降。
Jintai Lin, the lead author on the paper, said in an interview that he and the other scientists wanted to examine the transborder effects of emissions from export industries to look at how consumption contributes to global air pollution.
文章的第一作者林金泰在接受采访时说，他和其他几名科学家想要研究出口业排放物的跨边界效应，以便了解消费如何影响全球空气污染。
“We’re focusing on the trade impact,” said Mr. Lin, the Bai Ren professor in the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at Peking University’s School of Physics. “Trade changes the location of production and thus affects emissions.”
“我们主要关注贸易影响，”北京大学物理学院大气与海洋科学系百人计划研究员林金泰说，“贸易改变了生产地，进而影响了排放。”
Powerful global winds called westerlies can carry pollutants from China across the Pacific within days, leading to “dangerous spikes in contaminants,” especially during the spring, according to a news release from the University of California, Irvine, where one of the study’s co-authors, Steven J. Davis, is an earth system scientist. “Dust, ozone and carbon can accumulate in valleys and basins in California and other Western states,” the statement said.
加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)的新闻稿称，名为西风的全球范围强风能在几天之内让中国的污染物飘过太平洋，导致“污染物出现危险激增”，尤其是在春天。论文合著者史蒂文·J·戴维斯(Steven J. Davis)是该校研究地球系统的科学家。该新闻稿还说，“灰尘、臭氧和碳可能会积聚在加利福尼亚和西部其他一些州的山谷和盆地里。”
Black carbon is a particular problem because rain does not wash it out of the atmosphere, so it persists across long distances, it said. Black carbon is linked to asthma, cancer, emphysema and heart and lung disease.
新闻稿称，黑碳的问题尤其严重，因为雨水无法将其从大气中冲洗掉，因此它能够持续迁移很长的距离。黑碳会导致哮喘、癌症、肺气肿、心脏病和肺病。
“Los Angeles experiences at least one extra day a year of smog that exceeds federal ozone limits because of nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide emitted by Chinese factories making goods for export,” the statement said.
“因为中国生产出口商品的工厂排放的氮氧化物和一氧化碳，洛杉矶每年烟雾超过联邦臭氧限制的天数至少多了一天，”该声明说。
Using a modeling system called GEOS-Chem, the scientists estimated that in 2006, sulfate concentrations in the Western United States increased as much as 2 percent, and ozone and carbon monoxide levels also increased slightly because of the transportation of pollutants from emissions that resulted from the manufacture of goods for export to the United States. Because the Eastern United States has a much denser population, the outsourcing of manufacturing to China still resulted in “an overall beneficial effect for the U.S. public health,” even if Western states suffered, the scientists wrote.
利用一个名为GEOS-Chem的模型系统，这些科学家估计，2006年，因为面向美国的出口商品生产所导致的污染物转移到了美国，美国西部的硫酸盐浓度增加了多达2%，臭氧和一氧化碳的浓度也略有上升。他们写道，因为美国东部的人口密度比西部大得多，因此，将生产外包给中国依然会让“美国公共卫生在总体上受益”，哪怕这会让西部各州受害。
The amount of air pollution in the Western United States resulting from emissions from China is still very small compared with the amount produced by sources in the United States that include traffic and domestic industries.
相比于美国的交通和国内工业等污染源造成的污染，中国排放物对美国西部造成的空气污染依然很小。
The study’s scientists also looked at the impact of China’s export industries on its own air quality. They estimated that in 2006, China’s exporting of goods to the United States was responsible for 7.4 percent of production-based Chinese emissions for sulfur dioxide, 5.7 percent for nitrogen oxides, 3.6 percent for black carbon and 4.6 percent for carbon monoxide.
进行这项研究的科学家还研究了中国出口业对该国自身空气质量的影响。他们估计，2006年，中国生产活动所产生的全部排放当中，有7.4%的二氧化硫、5.7%的氮氧化物、3.6%的黑碳和4.6%的一氧化碳来自中国对美国的商品出口。
The interdisciplinary research project was begun two and a half years ago by scholars in Britain, China and the United States. The group included economists as well as earth and environmental scientists. The methodology applied various kinds of modeling to the Chinese economy and to the earth’s atmosphere and weather patterns.
这项跨学科研究始于两年半以前，参与的学者来自英国、中国和美国。研究团队中既有经济学家，也有地球和环境科学家。该研究建立了多种模型，用来分析中国的经济，以及地球的大气和天气模式。
The scholars who gave emissions estimates for China’s export industries, a significant part of the country’s economy, looked at data from 42 sectors that are direct or indirect contributors to emissions. Among them were steel and cement production, power generation and transportation. Coal-burning factories were the biggest sources of air pollutants and greenhouse gases, which contribute to global warming.
中国的出口行业是中国经济的重要组成部分。对中国出口行业排放进行估计的学者对42个直接或间接的排放制造者的数据进行了研究。这些行业包括钢铁和水泥生产、发电和交通。以煤为燃料的工厂是空气污染物和温室气体的最大来源，温室气体会造成全球变暖。
In recent years, scholars have been studying the impact of China’s total emissions on global air pollution and warming. Residents of nations in the path of winds carrying pollutants from China have grown alarmed at what they believe to be deteriorating air quality in their countries because of that pollution. In Japan, for instance, an environmental engineer has attributed a mysterious pestilence that is killing trees on Yakushima Island to pollutants from China.
近年来，学者一直在研究中国的总排放对全球空气污染和全球变暖的影响。风会带着中国的污染物前往世界其他地方，下风向国家的居民已经开始担心，本国空气质量已因中国的污染而恶化。例如，日本的一个环境工程师认为，导致屋久岛町树木死亡的一种不明有害物就是中国的污染物。
Alex L. Wang, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who studies Chinese environmental policy and regulation, said after reading the new paper: “This is a reminder to us that a significant percentage of China’s emissions of traditional pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions are connected to the products we buy and use every day in the U.S. We should be concerned, not only because this pollution is harming the citizens of China, but because it’s damaging the air quality in parts of the U.S.”
读过论文之后，研究中国环境政策和法规的加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)法学教授亚历克斯·L·王(Alex L. Wang)说：“这件事提醒我们，中国排放的传统污染物和温室气体中有相当大一部分与我们每天在美国购买和使用的产品有关。我们应该关注此事，不仅是因为这种污染正在伤害中国公民，也因为它正在损害美国部分地区的空气质量。”
Mr. Lin, the report’s lead author, said he hoped that the research would stimulate discussion of adopting consumption-based accounting of emissions, rather than just production-based accounting, which is now in wide use.
论文的第一作者林金泰说，他希望这项研究可以促使人们展开讨论，是否要用以消费为基础的排放计算方法来取代以生产为基础的计算方法。目前，后者的使用颇为广泛。
Exports accounted for 24.1 percent of China’s entire economic output last year, down sharply from a peak of 35 percent in 2007, before the global financial crisis began to weaken overseas demand even as China’s domestic economy continued to grow. The 2013 number takes into account economic data that was released on Monday.
去年，出口占中国总经济产出的24.1%，与2007年顶峰时期的35%相比有大幅下降。2007年，全球金融危机尚未导致海外需求减弱，而中国的国内经济仍在继续增长。2013年的数据参考了周一发布的经济数据。
Economists caution that this does not mean that a quarter of the economy was dedicated to producing goods for exports, since China still does a lot of reprocessing instead of making exports entirely itself.
经济学家提醒道，这并不是说整个经济的四分之一都在为出口生产商品，因为中国仍然在从事大量的再加工工作，而不是完全由自己来生产出口产品。
But the proportion of China’s exports that is made in China has risen steadily in recent years as many companies move more of their supply chains to China, instead of just having final assembly work done here. So the overall percentages of economic output might not by themselves be fair indicators of the importance of exports to the Chinese economy.
但是，随着众多公司把供应链的更多环节搬到中国，而不只是在中国完成最后的组装工作，中国制造的中国出口商品的比例一直在稳步升高。所以，单凭出口在经济产出中所占整体比例或许无法公平衡量出口对于中国经济的重要性。
Chinese exports to the United States sagged in 2009 because of the global financial crisis but have resumed vigorous growth. By China’s method of counting, which includes only direct shipments from mainland Chinese ports to the United States and excludes goods that travel by way of Hong Kong, Chinese exports grew to $368.5 billion last year from $252.3 billion in 2008. By contrast, China imported only $152.6 billion worth of goods directly from the United States.
2009年，因为全球金融危机，中国对美国的出口出现下跌，目前却已恢复强劲增长。中国的计算方法只考虑从中国大陆港口直接运往美国的货物，不考虑途经香港的货物，按照这种计算方法，去年中国的出口从2008年的2523亿美元（约合1.53万亿元人民币）增加到了3685亿美元。相比之下，中国从美国直接进口的商品价值仅为1526亿美元。
The United States, which does include goods briefly transiting Hong Kong in its trade figures with mainland China, has shown even larger American trade deficits with China for many years, because Chinese companies use Hong Kong heavily for exports but much less for imports. The United States has not yet released full-year export and import figures for 2013.
美国的统计将途经香港的商品纳入了与中国大陆的交易数字，其统计数据表明，多年以来，美国对中国的贸易逆差比前述数字还要大，因为中国公司大量通过香港出口，通过香港进口的交易量却小得多。美国尚未发布2013年的全年进出口数据。