BEIJING — China is building a second aircraft carrier, the country’s Ministry of National Defense confirmed on Thursday. But unlike the first, this one will be produced entirely using China’s own designs and technology, the ministry said.
北京——中国国防部周四确认，中国正在建造第二艘航空母舰。但国防部表示，与第一艘不同的是，这艘航母将完全使用中国自己的设计和技术。
A spokesman for the ministry, Col. Yang Yujun, said at a monthly news briefing in Beijing that the second aircraft carrier was being built in Dalian, a port city in northeast China. He did not indicate when the ship would be completed.
国防部发言人杨宇军大校在于北京举行的国防部每月例行的记者会上表示，第二艘航母的建造工作正在中国东北部港口城市大连进行。他没有透露该航母将于何时建成。
China’s first aircraft carrier, the Liaoning, went into service in September 2012. It was built from a castoff, uncompleted vessel bought from Ukraine in 1998 and refurbished by the Chinese Navy.
中国的第一艘航母辽宁舰于2012年9月正式入列服役。这艘航母是中国海军利用1998年从乌克兰买来的一艘废弃船舰改造而成。
“After taking into account a range of factors, the relevant authorities launched work on developing a second aircraft carrier, and we are now undertaking our own indigenous design and construction,” Colonel Yang said, according to a transcript of the news briefing on the ministry’s website.
“有关部门综合考虑各方面的因素后，启动了第二艘航空母舰研制工作，正在自主开展设计和建造，”刊登于国防部网站上的例行记者会文字记录显示，杨宇军在会上这样说。
“The design and construction of this second aircraft carrier have absorbed valuable experience from scientific experiments and training with the Liaoning,” he said.
“第二艘航母的设计和建造吸收了‘辽宁舰’科研试验和训练的有益经验，”他说。
The announcement was unlikely to surprise foreign analysts, who for months have circulated and pored over pictures of an unfinished hull, which indicated that a carrier was being built in Dalian. The images also circulated on Chinese websites, suggesting that the government was making no particular effort to hide its plans.
外国分析人士对此消息不会感到太意外，他们在几个月前就开始传阅和研究一些照片，其中显示着一具未完工船体，表明中国正在大连建一艘航母。这些图片在中国的网站上也传播开来，说明中国政府并没有特意隐藏其建造航母的计划。
A second carrier would bring the People’s Liberation Army Navy a step closer to its ambition of becoming a powerful force capable of asserting China’s territorial claims and national influence far from Beijing.
第二艘航母的建造将使中国人民解放军距离实现自己的目标更近一步，即成为能够在远离北京的地方宣示中国的领土主张、展示国家影响力的大国。
“We have a long coastline and a broad maritime jurisdiction,” Colonel Yang said. “Defending national maritime security, and safeguarding sovereignty over territorial seas and over maritime rights and interests, are sacred duties of China’s armed forces.”
“我们有着漫长的海岸线和广阔的管辖海域，”杨宇军说。“维护领海主权和海洋权益，是中国武装力量的神圣职责。”
In November, the Chinese military revealed plans to build a logistics outpost in the East African nation of Djibouti, breaking with a longstanding reluctance to establish military facilities abroad.
今年11月，中国军方披露了在东非国家吉布提建设一个后勤保障设施的计划，打破了它长久以来不愿在海外建设军事设施的惯例。
In September, President Xi Jinping announced plans to cut 300,000 personnel from the military’s ranks, China’s biggest troop reduction in nearly two decades, to make more resources available for technological modernization and better-trained forces. The Communist Party leadership has endorsed plans to reorganize the People’s Liberation Army so traditional ground forces have less influence.
今年9月，中国国家主席习近平宣布了裁减军队员额30万的计划，这是中国近20年来规模最大的一次裁军，目的是为中国军队实现技术上的现代化和得到更好的训练争取更多资源。中共领导层支持对于中国人民解放军进行重组，以便削弱传统地面部队的力量。
But the few details disclosed by Colonel Yang at the news briefing also suggested that China was moving incrementally toward developing an array of aircraft carriers.
但杨宇军大校在记者会上透露的一些细节信息也显示出，中国正朝着打造一系列航空母舰的方向发展。
He said that the second carrier would have a displacement, a measure of a ship’s weight, of 50,000 metric tons and use a “ski jump” takeoff technique for aircraft. The Liaoning has a displacement of 58,500 tons and also uses a ski jump for takeoffs.
他说第二艘航空母舰的排水量（一个衡量船只重量的指标）将为5万吨级，舰上飞机采用“滑跃”起飞方式。辽宁舰的排水量为5.85万吨，也采用滑跃起飞方式。
By contrast, the United States Navy’s Nimitz-class carriers have a displacement of about 88,000 tons when fully loaded. The ski ramp takeoff limits the loads of fuel and ammunition that planes can carry, relative to the more difficult catapult takeoff system that the United States Navy has developed.
与之相比，美国海军的尼米兹级航母在满载的情况下排水量约为8.8万吨。而与美国海军开发的难度更高的弹射起飞系统相比，滑跃起飞方式会限制飞机的武器和燃料装载量。
The People’s Liberation Army Navy has used the Liaoning carrier to hone the skills of fighter pilots and other personnel, but the carrier has not yet been absorbed into the growing Chinese naval forces regularly ready for missions.
中国人民解放军海军已经在利用辽宁舰磨练其战斗机飞行员及其他人员的技术，但这艘航母还没有被规模不断增长、需要经常执行任务的中国海军纳入日常使用。