What appeared to be a random slashing of a 16-year-old girl last year was an orchestrated attack meant for a different teenager who had had a sexual relationship with a Queens man, the authorities said on Thursday.
一起看似随机的持刀伤人事件原来是经过策划的蓄谋袭击案，只不过凶手认错了人。官方周四通报，在去年一名16岁女孩被割伤的案件中，凶手的目标本来是另一名少女，这名少女和一个皇后区的男性有过性关系。
The man, Wilson Lai, 25, of Oakland Gardens, had a one-year relationship starting in June 2013 with a girl who was then 14, Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney, said in a statement.
皇后区地方检察官理查德·A·布朗(Richard A. Brown)在一则通告中说，这名男性名叫威尔逊·赖（Wilson Lai，音），25岁，住在奥克兰花园(Oakland Gardens)。自2013年6月起，他与一名当时14岁的女孩恋爱，关系维持了一年。
An indictment announced on Thursday alleged that Mr. Lai conspired with another man, Devon Berkley, 36, of Allentown, Pa., to assault the girl.
周四宣布的起诉书中指控威尔逊·赖与另一名男性，36岁的德文·伯克利(Devon Berkley)共谋袭击这个女孩。伯克利来自宾夕法尼亚州阿伦敦(Allentown)。
Mr. Berkley ran up to a girl in the Whitestone section of Queens as she walked to school at the private Whitestone Academy on Dec. 16, according to the district attorney’s office. Mr. Brown said the girl, an exchange student from China, was slashed in a case of mistaken identity, noting that she lived in the same home as the intended victim and happened to be the same age.
据地方检察官办公室说，伯克利12月16日在皇后区的白石镇(Whitestone)向一名女孩下手。当时她正在去私立的白石中学的路上。布朗说，这名女孩是来自中国的交换生，她被袭击者当成了另一个人，被割伤面颊。另据布朗透露，她和袭击案的预定目标是室友，而且碰巧年龄相同。
In an interview in February, the girl who was slashed, Jia Jia Liang, described turning to look behind her as she heard footsteps. But the assailant, who was wearing a surgical mask and gloves, slashed her twice.
遇袭女孩梁佳佳（音）2月在采访中描述当时情景，她听到身后有脚步声，连忙回头，被袭击者割了两刀。袭击者戴着手术用口罩和手套。
Two scars mark the left side of her face, one running from the top of her cheekbone under her eye to her jawline, and the other starting closer to her ear and running to her jaw.
她的左脸颊留下两道疤，一道从眼睛下面的颧骨直至下颌骨下缘，另一道离眼睛更近，向下划到下颌。
Ms. Liang came to New York in 2014, hoping her studies at the Whitestone Academy would prepare her to apply for admission to an American college.
梁佳佳是2014年来到纽约的，希望在白石中学就读之后可以做好准备申请一所美国大学。
The indictment offered no motive for the attack, and the district attorney’s office did not elaborate. It was not clear on Thursday if the men had lawyers.
起诉书未提及作案动机，地方检察官办公室也没有详细说明。周四时候，还不清楚两名男子是否有律师。
The indictment also alleges that Mr. Lai and two unindicted co-conspirators punctured the tires and damaged the body of a vehicle belonging to his intended victim’s family in January. A note left on the vehicle stated that the wrong girl had been attacked and that the intended target was next, the district attorney’s office said.
起诉书还说，威尔逊·赖和另外两名未被起诉的同谋在1月曾扎破蓄谋袭击目标家人的车胎，损毁了车身。地方检察官办公室透露，留在车上的字条说，他们砍错了人，目标女孩会是下一个。
Mr. Lai and Mr. Berkley were charged with assault, conspiracy, endangering the welfare of a child and criminal possession of a weapon. Mr. Lai was also charged with rape, criminal sexual acts, criminal mischief and related charges. If convicted, Mr. Berkley faces up to 25 years in prison; Mr. Lai faces up to 32 years.
威尔逊·赖和伯克利被控袭击、共谋、侵害儿童福利和非法持有武器构成犯罪。威尔逊·赖还被控强奸、性行为犯罪和毁坏他人财产罪等相关罪名。如果被判罪名成立，伯克利面临最高25年的刑期。威尔逊·赖的刑期可达32年。
Mr. Lai appeared in State Supreme Court before Justice Gregory L. Lasak, who ordered him held without bail pending an arraignment on Tuesday. Mr. Berkley was arrested on Thursday in Allentown, and was being held there pending the outcome of an extradition hearing.
威尔逊·赖在州最高法院出庭，大法官格利高里·L·拉萨克(Gregory L. Lasak)周二命令将他收押，不予保释，等候传讯。伯克利于周四在阿伦敦被捕，在当地羁押，等候司法移交听证的结果。