HONG KONG — An important gauge of manufacturing activity in China, released on Thursday, showed a larger-than-expected uptick for October, suggesting that the economy may have picked up steam just as the Communist Party leadership was preparing to flesh out plans for an overhaul.
香港——周四公布的一项中国制造业活动重要指数显示，10月份的增长超出了预期，说明在共产党领导层准备提出具体的全面改革计划之际，经济发展势头可能正不断向好。
The early reading of a survey of purchasing managers, released by HSBC and compiled by the research firm Markit, reached a seven-month high of 50.9. That was up from 50.2 in September and higher than many economists had expected. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.
由汇丰银行(HSBC)发布、调查公司Markit编制的采购经理人指数初值创下七个月高点50.9，高于9月的50.2以及很多经济学家的预期。指数高于50说明经济正在扩张。
The poll provides an indication of how the giant Chinese economy is performing each month, and the rise provided some reassurance that the pickup of recent months had extended into October.
此项调查可以说明规模庞大的中国经济每月的表现，数值的升高在某种程度上使人确信，最近几个月的经济好转势头持续到了10月份。
The reading “implies that China’s growth recovery is becoming consolidated into 4Q following the bottoming out in 3Q,” Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC, said in a statement accompanying the index’s release. He referred to the third and fourth quarters of the year. “This momentum is likely to continue in the coming months, creating favorable conditions for speeding up structural reforms.”
汇丰银行首席中国经济学家屈宏斌在与该数据一并发表的声明中指出，该指数“显示工业生产已于三季度见底，预期四季度回升势头持续”。他指的是今年的第三和第四季度。他表示，“未来数月制造业活动回暖有望持续，为加快结构改革创造有利条件。”
Faced with a marked deceleration of growth last year and early this year, and eager to contain some of the risks that have built up in the financial system amid a surge in lending following the global financial crisis, the Chinese authorities have announced a series of measures aimed at supporting the economy and reducing inefficient or risky lending activities.
面对去年和今年年初增长明显减速的情况，再加上急于控制全球金融危机之后放贷激增给金融系统带来的风险，中国当局已经宣布了一系列措施，旨在促进经济发展，减少低效或高风险的放贷活动。
In August, for example, the authorities announced plans for a body to coordinate financial supervision, in an apparent bid to reduce risk and wean the economy from easy credit and steer it toward slower, more sustainable expansion.
例如，中国当局在今年8月宣布了建立协调金融监管的机构的计划，此举明显是为了减少风险，促使经济不再依靠轻松易得的信贷，引导经济转向速度较慢、更可持续的扩张。
Steps to support the quality of future growth have included tax cuts for small businesses — which the government is eager to promote in its bid to diversify business activity — and instructions to companies in certain sectors to cut excess production capacity.
提高未来经济增长质量的举措包括，减少小型企业的税负，要求某些领域的公司削减过剩产能。政府渴望推动小型企业的发展，促使商业活动多元化。
The measures reflect the difficult balance that Beijing must strike as it seeks to steer a path between maintaining sufficient growth to generate jobs and social stability, yet reducing the risks that accompany headlong growth.
这些举措反映出北京方面必须保持的一种难以拿捏的平衡，因为它正在寻求路径，一方面要维持足够的增长来创造就业机会，保持社会稳定，一方面又要减少一味追求发展带来的风险。
Although a boom in lending was crucial to ensuring growth after the global financial crisis, it also helped fan a worrying buildup of local government debt and contributed to soaring property prices across much of the nation.
全球金融危机后的放贷潮是确保经济增长的关键因素，但也推动地方政府债务增加到了令人担忧的水平，并为全国大部分地区的房价飙升起到了推波助澜的作用。
This week, in an apparent bid to clamp down on inflation risks, the central bank drained cash from the financial system, causing money market rates to rise sharply.
本周，央行从金融系统抽离资金，导致货币市场利率急升，此举明显是为了降低通胀风险。
The Communist Party Central Committee meeting next month is expected to outline some broader, structural changes that are part of the authorities’ goal of shifting the economy away from its dependence on exports and investments in heavy industry toward more domestic demand and more efficient sustainable growth.
据预计，将于下个月举行的中共中央委员会会议将概述一些范围更广的结构性调整，以此作为官方转移经济重心的部分内容。官方一直希望中国经济不再依赖于出口和重工业投资，将重点转向增加国内需求和提高可持续发展效率。
These steps could include making it easier for farmers to lease land, planning to revitalize private enterprise, and addressing a range of financial overhauls, analysts say.
分析人士表示，相关举措可能包括简化农民出租土地的程序、振兴私营企业以及进行一系列金融整改。
Economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch wrote this week that they expected the leadership meeting to signal steps to ease the longstanding one-child policy, to start pilot projects to overhaul rural land rights, to centralize some government functions, and to promise aggressive cuts in government rules and regulations.
美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)的经济学家本周写道，他们认为，前述领导层会议将发出信号，放宽长期以来的独生子女政策；开始实施全面改革农村土地权益的试验项目；集中一些政府职能；承诺大力减少政府的条条框框。
On the financial front, they added, there could be plans to allow local governments to sell bonds — which they are currently prohibited from doing — and pledges to further open up interest rates, foreign exchange rates and capital flows to market forces.
他们还说，在金融领域，他们可能会出台一些允许当地政府出售债券的计划——目前这种行为仍在禁止之列——并承诺进一步放送管控，让市场来决定利率、外汇汇率和资本流动。
Details on many of these targets, however, will probably remain sketchy and elusive for now. And some sensitive areas, like changes for the giant state-owned enterprises, are unlikely to be addressed at all.
然而，前述许多目标的细节，目前多半仍处于模糊状态。大型国企改革等敏感话题可能根本不会被提及。
“The benign economic outlook in the near term provides favorable condition for structural reforms,” Zhu Haibin, chief China economist in Hong Kong for JPMorgan, wrote about the purchasing managers’ index Thursday. Regarding next month’s Central Committee meeting, he said that although there was “no question” that new leaders were determined to push forward economic overhauls, “actions and implementations are more important at this stage.”
“短期内的良好经济前景为结构改革提供了有利条件，”周四，摩根大通(JPMorgan)首席中国经济学家朱海斌在评论采购经理人指数时写道。至于下个月的中央委员会会议，他说，虽然新领导层“无疑”决心要推动经济整改，但“在这个阶段，行动和执行更加重要。”