“I gave birth to a girl. She’s eight months old. Because I’m a single mother…” read a message on Realize Your Dream for a Family, a website that the Chinese police say posed as a public welfare group connecting childless couples with children needing homes, but that in reality was a hard-nosed business buying and selling babies.
“我生了一个女儿。她八个月大，因为我是个单身妈妈……”中国网站圆梦之家上的一条信息这么写道。中国警方称，这个帮助没有孩子的夫妻与需要家庭的孩子建立联系的打着公益旗号的网站，实质上是在从事毫无情意的婴儿买卖。
The “for sale” message ends there, with a visitor unable to open the link a day after the Ministry of Public Security announced that it had broken up four major baby-trafficking rings and arrested more than 1,000 people. The police identified the websites as Realize Your Dream for a Family, Everyone Wants Me, Adopt8 and China Orphan Net. About 30 instant-messenger groups on the popular Tencent QQ service were also being used to discuss details such as the prices of the babies, the police said.
这条“出售”信息链接的内容现已打不开了，一天前，公安部宣布摧毁了4个特大网络贩婴团伙，并逮捕了1000多人。公安部称这4个网站的名字分别是：“圆梦”、“人人要我”、“收养吧”、“中国孤儿网”。警方称，热门的腾讯服务上有约30个QQ群，被用来讨论诸如婴幼儿价格等信息。
At the online Realize Your Dream General Store on the Taobao e-commerce site, the sale of babies involved money deposited by the buyer and retrieved by the seller in what were presented as “gold jewelry units” of 6,500 renminbi each, about $1,060. The store’s owner — in reality the website’s founder, now under arrest — received a commission of 2,000 renminbi per “unit,” China National Radio reported.
据中央人民广播电台报道，在在线交易网站淘宝网的“圆梦杂货铺”里，买卖婴幼儿所涉及的钱，以“黄金首饰件”的名义由买家支付、再由卖家取走，每件6500元。该店店主从每件交易中收取2000元人民币的佣金，这家网店的店主实际上也是圆梦之家网站的创建者，现已被逮捕。
Girls go for about 35,000 renminbi, or $5,700, and boys — more highly valued — for about 45,000 renminbi; in gold jewelry units, each girl is worth about five units, and each boy about seven.
女孩的售价约为35000元人民币，男孩的定价更高，约45000元；用黄金首饰件来计算，每个女孩值约5件，男孩约7件。
The police said they rescued 382 babies in the nationwide operation, which began in July and culminated with the arrests on Feb. 19 in 27 provinces or cities.
警方称，在这次全国行动中已经解救出382个婴幼儿，这次行动在27个省市展开，从去年7月开始，于2月19日统一行动，抓获了犯罪嫌疑人。
“The origin of a lot of these babies is unclear,” Zheng Hao, a member of the Internet security branch of the Beijing police, told The Beijing News.
北京市公安局网络安全部门的警官郑浩告诉《新京报》说，“很多孩子来源不明。”
Buying and selling babies is a long-standing practice, and a lucrative business, in China, but it’s also illegal, specifically prohibited under Article 20 of the country’s Adoption Law.
在中国，买卖婴幼儿是一个长期以存在的问题，也是利润丰厚的生意，但也是违法的，中国《收养法》第20条特别规定禁止买卖婴幼儿。
“Children are not commodities,” said Chen Shiqu, director of the Ministry of Public Security’s human-trafficking task force, in comments to China National Radio. “Selling babies online is in reality kidnapping for money. Just that by going online it was more concealed. The goal was to evade detection.”
公安部打拐办主任陈士渠对中国广播网说，“儿童不是商品，不能以任何名义来实施买卖儿童的犯罪活动。利用网络实施贩卖婴儿的犯罪，它的实质是拐卖儿童。只是它通过网络实施，更加隐蔽。”
Mr. Zheng said that in the months of investigation of the websites and instant-messenger groups, “we would find that as one side was announcing the purchase of a baby, another would announce the sale of a baby. It was very chaotic and complicated.”
郑浩说，在对这些网站和QQ群进行的几个月的调查中，我们发现一般进到这个群里都会让你改名，比如送宝-男-几个月。这边是领宝，不要谈价格，有什么私底下聊。
China National Radio reported from Leshan, in Sichuan Province, where one such baby, Xiao Chou, who was younger than six months old, was being dressed by the family that had bought her in preparation for being taken away by the police. “I paid 34,000 renminbi,” a farmer surnamed Ju told the radio station.
央广网报道称，四川省乐山一个叫做“小臭”的被贩卖婴儿不到6个月大，正被买下她的一家人穿上衣服被警察带走。农民鞠某说，“给了对方三万四。”
“I advertized on QQ, and people got in touch with me,” he said. “The opposite number was an unmarried mother who couldn’t raise her, and she asked me if I was prepared to adopt her. The baby was so young and so weak, so I got together all the money I had and gave it to the mother.”
他说，“我在网上发了个帖子，发了qq号。他们就联系我。对方也是未婚生育的，她自己无力抚养，问我要不要养。当时看她年龄很小而且又很穷，所以我就把我身上的钱给她。”
The babies who have been recovered will initially be placed in orphanages, the media reports said. Chinese orphanages have also been hit by scandals involving the buying and selling of babies.
媒体报道称，这些被解救出来的婴幼儿将先送到孤儿院。中国孤儿院也曾发生过涉嫌买卖婴幼儿的丑闻。
The Public Security Ministry said five ringleaders had been arrested, including one named Zhou Daifu.
公安部称，犯罪团伙的5个头目都已被捕，其中包括一个名叫周代富的人。
China Radio International carried an interview with the head of Realize Your Dream for a Family, whom it identified as a man surnamed Zhou, the only one of the five suspected ringleaders with that surname.
中国广播网采访了"圆梦之家"的创建人，该网站称此人姓周，5个犯罪团伙头目嫌疑人中只有一个姓周的。
Mr. Zhou, interviewed after his arrest, said he had begun the website amid his own efforts to adopt, after he and his wife were unable to have children.
周代富在被捕后接受采访时说，他是在自己想收养孩子的过程中创建这个网站的，他和他的妻子无法生育。
“In the beginning I wanted to help people who wanted to adopt,” he said. “I had been through that myself. But slowly it changed into a profit thing.
他说，“最初还是想通过这种平台去帮助一些想收养孩子的人。自己体会过那种心情。但是慢慢就发生了质的改变了。变成那种利益熏心的。”
“As it became a profit thing, well, by then it was different,” he said. “I quite regret it now. If I could do it again, I’d choose to shut down the website.”
他说，“慢慢变成一种高补偿以后，它就已经变质了。现在比较后悔。如果选择重来的话，我想我肯定会关闭这个网站。”