HONG KONG — In the winter of 1967, a group of Chinese space experts trudged across a desert in China’s western borderlands in search of a crashed test rocket.
香港——1967年冬，一群中国太空专家在中国西部边境地区的沙漠中跋涉，寻找坠毁的测试火箭。
The cold crept into their sheepskin coats, one of the experts, Ma Zuoxin, recalled in a 2014 documentary film. “It chilled us to the bone.”
严寒渗入了他们的羊皮大衣，专家之一马作新在一部2014年的纪录片中回忆。“冻的那个冷劲，透到你骨头里。”
But they kept walking for days, he said, trailing their leader, Ren Xinmin. And at dusk on the fifth night, Dr. Ren at last spotted the rocket’s blackened wreckage poking out of the ground.
但是，他说，他们跟着领头人任新民继续走了好几天。第五个晚上的黄昏时分，任博士终于发现火箭的黑色残骸从地上冒出来。
For Dr. Ren, who died on Sunday at 102, the desert odyssey was just one gambit in a lifelong quest to develop China’s space program.
任博士在周日去世，享年102岁，他毕生追求发展中国的太空计划，对于他来说，这场沙漠远征只是小事一桩。
He is best known for designing the first Chinese satellite to be successfully launched into space. In the 2004 book “China’s Space Program: From Conception to Manned Spaceflight,” Brian Harvey wrote that the launch, in April 1970, prompted Mao Zedong, the chairman of the People’s Republic of China, to commend Dr. Ren in an address to the nation.
他以设计了中国第一颗成功发射到太空的人造卫星而著称。在2004年的书《中国空间计划：从构想到载人航天飞行》(China’s Space Program: From Conception to Manned Spaceflight)中，作者布赖恩·哈维(Brian Harvey)写道，1970年4月的那次发射令中华人民共和国主席毛泽东在一次对全国发表的讲话中赞扬了任新民。
The launch was additionally significant because China’s top leaders saw the space program as a symbol of modernity and an effort to keep up with the space race between the United States and the Soviet Union.
这次发射非常重要，因为中国的高层领导人认为太空计划是现代化的象征，并要努力跟上美国和苏联之间的太空竞赛。
One of Dr. Ren’s projects was a weather satellite. But Lawrence R. Sullivan, who has studied the history of science and technology in China and is a professor emeritus of political science at Adelphi University on Long Island, said in a telephone interview that Dr. Ren’s work had a clear military dimension.
任新民的项目之一是气象卫星。但是，长岛阿德尔菲大学(Adelphi University)政治学荣休教授，研究中国科技史的劳伦斯·R·沙利文(Lawrence R. Sullivan）在接受电话采访时说，任博士的工作具有显著的军事层面。
“If you develop missiles that can hit cities or that can put satellites in orbit, they’re both missiles,” he said. “They’re not that much different.”
“如果你开发的导弹可以打击城市，或是把卫星送到轨道上，那它们都是导弹，”他说。“它们没有太大的不同。”
Dr. Ren’s death, in Beijing, was announced on Monday by the state-owned China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation, which conducts research and development for the country’s space program.
任新民在北京逝世，这个消息于周一由国家所有的中国航天科技集团公司宣布，该公司负责中国太空计划的研究与开发。
Dr. Ren is survived by his wife, Yu Shuangqin; two daughters, Ren Zhixiang and Ren Zhige; and two sons, Ren Zhizhong and Ren Zhixing, according to a company representative who was reached by telephone but who declined to be identified.
根据一个通过电话接受采访但拒绝透露姓名的公司代表称。任博士尚在世的亲人包括妻子虞霜琴，两个女儿任之翔 、任之戈；以及两个儿子任之忠、任之幸。
Dr. Ren was born on Dec. 5, 1915, in the eastern province of Anhui, reports in the Chinese news media said. After graduating from a military university in the southwestern city of Chongqing, he moved to the United States and earned a doctorate in applied mechanics from the University of Michigan.
据中国新闻媒体报道，任博士于1915年12月5日在中国东部省份安徽省出生，从西南城市重庆的军事院校毕业后，他来到美国，在密歇根大学获得应用力学博士学位。
He returned to China in 1949, the year the People’s Republic was founded, and later worked at a military research academy. Professor Sullivan said that Dr. Ren, a specialist in liquid rocket fuels, most likely worked under Qian Xuesen, a rocket scientist known as the founder of China’s space program.
他于1949年，也就是中华人民共和国成立那年返回中国，随后任职于一所军事研究院。沙利文教授说，作为液体火箭燃料方面的专家，任博士极有可能在钱学森手下工作过。钱学森是以创办中国太空计划闻名的火箭专家。
Over the years Dr. Ren worked on several variations of the rocket that sent China’s first satellite into space. Chinese state media said he had been the chief designer for six major space projects.
任新民曾在多年间致力于研究首次把中国卫星送进太空的那枚火箭的多个变种。中国官方媒体称，他担任过六个重大太空项目的总设计师。
His former colleagues have described him in interviews with Chinese newspapers as restlessly ambitious and energetic. One colleague, Wang Hang, said that Dr. Ren rarely took long lunch breaks and often worked deep into the night.
他的前同事接受中国报纸采访时说，他永远雄心勃勃、充满活力。同事王桁说，任博士很少长时间午休，常常工作到深夜。
But he was also humble and accessible, his colleagues said.
但同事们说，他同时又颇为谦逊和平易近人。
Zhang Enzhao, a former official at the Academy of Aerospace Propulsion Technology in the central city of Xi’an, said that on a summer day in the 1960s, he saw Dr. Ren enter an office and wave off a group of subordinates who had stood to salute him.
曾在位于中部城市西安的中国航天推进技术研究院任职的张恩昭说，1960年代的一个夏日，他看到任博士走进办公室，朝着一群站起来向他敬礼的下属摆手。
“He was not as serious as I thought, but instead very amiable,” Mr. Zhang told the newspaper China Space News in 2015.
“任新民一点也不像我先前想象的那样严肃。他平易近人，没有一点架子，”张恩昭在2015年告诉《中国航天报》。
Days later, Mr. Zhang said, he received a notice about office protocol. Effective immediately, the notice said, saluting superiors within office buildings was no longer necessary.
张恩昭说，几天后，他收到了一份关于办公室礼仪的通知。通知称，即日起，在办公场所没有必要再向上级敬礼。