BEIJING — The Chinese government has fined six companies that sell infant milk powder a total of $109 million for anticompetitive behavior and price fixing, the country’s top economic planning agency said on Wednesday.
北京——周三，中国最高经济规划机构表示，中国政府已经向六家存在反竞争行为及价格垄断行为的婴幼儿奶粉公司开出了罚单，罚款总额达到1.09亿美元（约合6.67亿元人民币）。
It is the largest fine China has ever issued for violations of its antimonopoly law, according to Xinhua, the official state news agency.
根据官方媒体新华社报道，这是中国针对违反反垄断法行为开出的最大罚单。
Five of the companies are foreign ones, and one is based in Hong Kong. They are Mead Johnson Nutrition of the United States; Dumex Baby Food, a subsidiary of Danone in France; Biostime International of Hong Kong; Royal FrieslandCampina of the Netherlands; the Fonterra Co-operative Group of New Zealand; and Abbott Laboratories of the United States, according to a statement from the National Development and Reform Commission, the Chinese economic planning agency.
其中五家公司为外国公司，一家是总部位于香港的公司。根据中国经济规划机构国家发展与改革委员会的一份声明，这六家公司分别是美国美赞臣(Mead Johnson Nutrition)、法国达能(Danone)旗下子公司多美滋婴幼儿食品有限公司(Dumex Baby Food)、香港合生元(Biostime International)、荷兰富仕兰(Royal FrieslandCampina)、新西兰恒天然合作集团(Fonterra Co-operative Group)和美国雅培(Abbott Laboratories)。
The statement said three other companies were exempted from the punishment because they “cooperated with the government investigation, provided important evidence and actively took self-rectification measures.”
声明称，“对主动向反垄断执法机构报告达成垄断协议有关情况、提供重要证据，并积极主动整改的”的其他三家公司免除处罚。
Those not subject to the action were Wyeth Nutrition, a subsidiary of Nestlé of Switzerland; Zhejiang Beingmate Technology Industry and Trade Company, a Chinese company; and Meiji Holdings of Japan.
这三家免受处罚的公司分别是瑞士雀巢(Nestlé)旗下子公司惠氏营养品有限公司(Wyeth Nutrition)、中国浙江贝因美科工贸股份有限公司和日本明治控股公司(Meiji Holdings)。
The decision concluded an investigation that began in March into the infant formula industry for what the commission said was price fixing of baby formula in the Chinese market.
发改委称一些婴幼儿配方奶粉公司在中国市场上实施了价格垄断行为，并在3月份开始对该行业开展调查。此项决定宣告了此项调查的结束。
The statement said evidence gathered during the course of the investigation showed that the companies used various methods to ensure that distributors raised prices, including signing contractual agreements, imposing fines, cutting rebates and restricting the supply of goods.
声明称，调查过程中搜集的证据显示，涉案公司利用各种手段确保经销商提高价格，比如签订合同约定、罚款、扣减返利和限制供货。
People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s official newspaper, and at least one analyst of China’s market for baby products have said that prices of foreign-branded infant milk powder had risen by at least 30 percent since 2008, when Chinese began buying foreign brands in droves because of a wide scandal involving tainted Chinese-made milk powder that caused widespread illness and some deaths.
《人民日报》及至少一名中国婴幼儿产品市场分析人士表示，自2008年以来，外国品牌的婴幼儿奶粉的价格至少上涨了30%，那一年，关于受污染的中国造奶粉致使大量儿童患病及一些儿童死亡的丑闻广泛流传，中国人开始纷纷购买外国品牌。
After the investigation began, at least three foreign companies — Mead Johnson, Dumex and Nestlé — cut prices of their products about 20 percent in the Chinese market.
调查开始之后，至少有三家外国公司——美赞臣、多美滋及雀巢——在中国市场降价大约20%。
Mead Johnson was fined the equivalent of 4 percent of its 2012 revenue in China, or about $33 million. In its announcement, the agency said Mead Johnson did not actively cooperate with the investigation but was quick to take corrective measures.
美赞成被处以大约3300万美元的罚款，相当于2012年该公司在华销售额的4%。发改委在其声明中称，美赞臣没有主动配合调查，但能积极整改。
Mead Johnson said it did not intend to contest the agency’s decision. A company spokeswoman said in an e-mail on Wednesday, “We believe our business practices were consistent with prevailing interpretations of regulatory requirements applicable to our industry.”
美赞臣表示，该公司不打算对发改委的决定提出抗辩。公司一名女发言人在周三的一封邮件中表示，“我们相信，我们的商业行为符合对于本行业法规要求的普遍解读。”
Biostime, which was fined 6 percent of its revenue from last year, or $26.6 million, received the harshest punishment of the six companies for its “serious violations” of the antimonopoly law. A statement by the company, released on Wednesday, said it intended to pay the fine and would continue to work to ensure that its “various business decisions comply with the applicable P.R.C. laws and regulations,” referring to the People’s Republic of China.
因为“严重违反”《反垄断法》，合生元在前述六家企业里受罚最重，被处以上一年度销售额6%的罚款，共计2660万美元。该公司于周三发布的声明说，公司打算交纳罚款，并将继续设法确保公司的“各项商业决定符合中华人民共和国的适用法律和法规”。
Dumex, Abbott, Friesland and Fonterra were each fined 3 percent of their 2012 revenue in China. The Chinese agency said they had cooperated with the investigation and had been quick to change their practices.
多美滋、雅培、富仕兰和恒天然均被处以相当于2012年度各自在华销售额3%的罚款。中国主管机构说，这几家都是配合调查、迅速整改的公司。
Fonterra was fined ony about $730,000, but it has been mired in a separate food safety scandal in China related to potentially tainted ingredients used in baby formula products made by other companies. This week, a top Fonterra executive flew to China to issue an apology at a news conference.
恒天然只被罚了73万美元左右，不过，它已在中国陷入另一桩食品安全丑闻，该丑闻与其他公司生产的婴儿配方奶粉产品可能使用的被污染原料有关。本周，恒天然的一名高管飞赴中国，在一次新闻发布会上致歉。
Chinese officials have banned imports of New Zealand milk products, and several foreign companies have said they would take precautionary measures and recall products containing the Fonterra ingredients. The Chinese state-run news media has run front-page articles and harsh editorials over the case.
中国官员已经禁止进口新西兰的奶制品，几家外国公司也已表示，他们将采取防范措施，召回含有恒天然原料的产品。中国官方新闻媒体就此事刊登了头版文章和措辞严厉的社论。
Foreign brands have become popular since the Chinese milk industry experienced severe losses after the 2008 scandal, when six babies died and more than 300,000 children fell ill as a result of drinking milk products tainted with melamine, a toxic chemical.
2008年的丑闻重创了中国奶企，外国品牌变得流行起来。在2008年的丑闻中，有六名婴儿死亡、超过30万儿童感到不适，原因是他们饮用了受到三聚氰胺污染的奶制品，三聚氰胺是一种有毒化学物质。
When Chinese officials announced the price-fixing investigation a month ago, they also said they would ensure stricter standards within the domestic industry. Chinese state-run newspapers ran editorials saying they hoped that the new standards would bolster the competitive ability of the domestic companies versus foreign rivals.
中国官员于一个月前宣布启动价格垄断调查，当时还曾表示，他们将在国内奶制品行业推行更加严格的标准。中国官方报纸发表的社论说，他们希望，新标准能提升国内企业抗衡外国对手的竞争能力。
For various reasons, including aggressive marketing by the formula makers, many Chinese mothers prefer to give their babies formula rather than breast milk, though breast-feeding has grown in popularity since the 2008 scandal.
出于多种原因，包括配方奶粉制造商采取的强力市场推广措施，许多中国母亲倾向于给自己的宝贝喝婴儿配方奶，而不是母乳，尽管自2008年以来，母乳喂养已经变得越来越普遍。
The market for infant formula in China is enormous and growing fast. It was estimated to be worth about $12.7 billion in 2012, and is projected to grow to $15.4 billion this year and $18.4 billion in 2014, according to data from Euromonitor, a research organization.
中国的婴儿配方奶粉市场规模巨大，而且增长迅速。根据研究机构欧睿信息咨询公司(Euromonitor)的数据，该市场在2012年的价值估计约为127亿美元，预计今年将增长到154亿美元，2014年将增长到184亿美元。
Chinese parents have gone to great lengths to buy foreign-made infant milk powder, and that has led to shortages in at least a half-dozen countries around the world.
中国父母不遗余力地购买外国生产的婴儿奶粉，这种行为已导致全球至少六个国家出现了婴儿奶粉产品短缺现象。
Some large retail chains have imposed a limit of two to four cans of milk powder per customer, and Hong Kong has made it a criminal offense to take more than two cans of milk powder out of the territory. The law was imposed in March to crack down on smuggling of milk powder to the mainland.
一些大型零售连锁店已经限定每位顾客只能购买两到四罐奶粉，香港则把携带多于两罐奶粉离境的行为宣布为非法。该法于今年3月实施，目的是打击走私奶粉到中国内地的行为。