HONG KONG — China, the world’s biggest greenhouse gas polluter, pledged on Tuesday to wean its economy away from reliance on fossil fuels as it grows, and to try to bring the rise in its carbon emissions to an earlier end.
香港——中国目前是世界上最大的温室气体排放国。本周二，它承诺将在经济增长过程中逐步减少对化石燃料的依赖，并设法在较早的时间点结束碳排放的增长。
The Chinese government offered the goals as building blocks for a new international agreement on countering global warming, which governments hope to reach at a conference in Paris late this year.
中国政府宣布的这些目标，将成为对抗全球变暖的一项新国际协定的组成部分。各国政府希望在今年底的巴黎会议上达成这一协定。
How quickly and how much China’s emissions will grow is crucial to the arithmetic of global climate change, which is driven by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, especially carbon dioxide. China’s motor vehicles, factories, power plants and boilers released 29 percent of the world’s carbon dioxide emissions in 2013 — twice the amount released by the United States, the world’s largest economy and second-largest carbon polluter.
中国碳排放增加的速度和规模，对评估全球气候变化的状况至关重要。气候变化由大气中温室气体含量的不断增加推动，特别是二氧化碳的浓度。中国的机动车、工厂、发电厂和锅炉在2013年排放的二氧化碳占全球总排放量的29%——是世界第一大经济体、第二大碳排放国美国的两倍。
The proposals “reflect China’s biggest effort to respond to climate change, and embody its thoroughgoing participation in global governance,” Prime Minister Li Keqiang of China said on Tuesday in Paris, according to the Chinese government’s website. He described the proposals in a meeting with President François Hollande of France, whose government will host the international conference.
中国政府官方网站刊登的一篇文章称，国务院总理李克强本周二在巴黎表示，此次提出的目标“反映了中国应对气候变化的最大努力，体现了中国深度参与全球治理”。他在会见法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)时介绍了这一方案。奥朗德政府将是年底的这次国际会议的东道主。
China’s latest proposals will be closely scrutinized by policy makers in other capitals, especially in Washington, where China looms large in political debates over climate change. And while many analysts were heartened that China had declared its resolve to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, some experts said the proposed steps fell short of what the country could and should achieve.
中国提交的最新方案受到了其他国家决策者的密切关注，尤其是在华盛顿。在美国的气候变化政治辩论中，中国是一个重大考量因素。虽然中国展示了减少其温室气体排放的决心，令许多分析人士欢欣鼓舞，但一些专家认为，与提交的这些目标相比，该国可以并且应该取得更大的进步。
The proposals “may reflect a desire by the Chinese government to have a ‘safe’ international goal,” Bill Hare, a senior scientist with Climate Analytics, which analyses greenhouse gas emission trends, wrote in an emailed comment.
这一方案“可能反映了中国政府希望有一个‘稳妥’的国际目标，”气候分析组织(Climate Analytics)的资深科学家比尔·赫尔(Bill Hare)通过电子邮件接受采访时发表了这样的评论。该组织分析温室气体排放的趋势。
“The bigger picture remains that China’s national actions and policies are already set to drive a large decarbonization of its economy, but that further action is needed,” Mr. Hare wrote.
“更大的格局仍然是：中国推动其经济大规模脱碳的政府行动和政策已经设定，但它需要采取进一步的行动，”赫尔写道。
Mr. Li said on Tuesday that China would “strive for the earliest possible peak” in its emissions. And he announced a new goal: to further reduce the country’s carbon intensity, a measure of how much pollution it generates for every percentage point of economic growth it achieves.
李克强本周二表示，中国将在碳排放上“争取尽早达峰”。他还宣布了一项新的目标：进一步减少中国的碳排放强度，也就是每个百分点的经济增长产生的排放量。
In his meeting with Mr. Hollande, Mr. Li reiterated that China would try to make its emissions of carbon dioxide — the main greenhouse gas produced by the burning of coal, oil and natural gas and by industrial activity — stop growing by 2030 or before, according to the Chinese government’s website.
中国政府官方网站的另一篇文章称，李克强在会见奥朗德时重申，中国将设法在2030年或之前结束其二氧化碳排放的增加。二氧化碳是一种主要的温室气体，来源于煤炭、石油和天然气的燃烧及工业活动。
As for carbon intensity, the Chinese government had promised in 2009 to cut it by 40 to 45 percent from its 2005 level, and to do so by 2020. Mr. Li announced a new goal, to extend the cut to 60 to 65 percent by 2030. China had already fulfilled much of its original commitment: by late last year, according to government data, carbon intensity was down by 33.8 percent from the 2005 level.
至于碳排放强度，中国政府2009年时曾经承诺，到2020年左右达到比2005年减少40%到45%的水平。李克强此次宣布了一个新的目标，到2030年左右，比2005年下降60%到65%。中国已经实现了早前承诺的很大一部分：政府数据显示，到去年底，碳排放强度比2005年的水平下降了33.8%。
By outlining China’s goals in Paris, Mr. Li gave a lift to the government of Mr. Hollande, which has staked considerable prestige on the success of the Paris conference, which is scheduled to convene Nov. 30.
李克强选择在巴黎提出中国的目标，是对奥朗德政府的一种支持。定于11月30日开幕的巴黎会议是否成功，对奥朗德政府的威望影响甚大。
In advance of the conference, participating governments must submit plans for climate change action to the United Nations. China published its submission soon after Mr. Li’s meeting with Mr. Hollande, laying out measures to clean up economic production and consumer behavior.
在开会之前，与会的各国政府必须向联合国提交本国的气候变化行动方案。在李克强会见奥朗德不久之后，中国就发布了它提交的方案，列举了让经济生产和消费行为变得更为清洁的措施。
“It’s very detailed, and suggests the seriousness with which China takes its climate policy goals,” said David Sandalow, a fellow at the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University and former top Energy Department official.
“非常详细，表明中国很重视自己的气候政策目标，”哥伦比亚大学全球能源政策中心(Global Energy Policy at Columbia University)研究员、美国能源部前高级官员戴维·桑德罗(David Sandalow)说。
The stagecraft of China’s announcement sent an encouraging signal for the negotiations, said Jennifer Morgan, the Global Director of the Climate Program for the World Resources Institute in Washington.
世界资源研究所(World Resources Institute)全球气候项目总监珍妮弗·摩根(Jennifer Morgan)表示，中国精心策划的公告发出了令人鼓舞的信号，有助于谈判的推进。
“That this was done at the meeting with President Hollande, and not just by submitting it into a web portal, I think that really demonstrates that the upper levels of the Chinese government are fully engaged in this,” Ms. Morgan said in a telephone interview.
摩根接受电话采访时表示，“这是在与奥朗德总统会晤时宣布的，不仅仅是提交到网站上，我觉得这的确说明中国政府的高层充分致力于这方面的工作。”
Still, years of international negotiations have brought little agreement on how to assign responsibility for cutting greenhouse gas pollution. A conference in Copenhagen in 2009 ended in acrimony between wealthy and developing economies, especially between the United States and China.
尽管如此，多年的国际谈判并没有在如何分配温室气体排放削减额度方面达成多少一致。2009年的哥本哈根会议在富裕国家与发展中国家的激烈交锋中落下帷幕，特别是美中两国之间。
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations warned on Monday that the preparatory talks for the Paris conference were “far too slow.”
联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)在周一发出警告，称巴黎会议的预备会谈“进展过于缓慢”。
“It’s like snails,” he told a meeting of the General Assembly.
他在联合国大会的一次会议上表示，“像蜗牛一样。”
However, since 2009, China and the United States have found more common ground in the negotiations. When President Xi Jinping of China announced his government’s 2030 goal for halting the growth in its carbon dioxide pollution in a joint statement with President Obama in November, it was the first time that Beijing had formally proposed a time frame.
不过，自2009年以来，中国和美国在谈判中找到了越来越多的共同点。中国国家主席习近平去年11月与奥巴马总统发表联合声明，宣布了中国准备在2030年终止碳排放增长的目标。这是北京首次正式提出这方面的时间框架。
“I think Paris will be different from Copenhagen,” said Fuqiang Yang, a senior adviser on climate change and energy policy in Beijing for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an international environmental advocacy group based in New York. “Everyone understands that this time they cannot leave empty-handed.”
“我觉得巴黎会议会与哥本哈根会议不同，”自然资源保护协会(Natural Resources Defense Council)驻北京的气候变化与能源政策高级顾问杨富强表示。“大家都知道，他们这次不能空手而归。”该协会是一家总部位于纽约的国际环保组织。
Public discontent at home about hazardous air pollution has magnified the pressure on China to cut its use of coal, the dominant source of both its smog and its carbon emissions.
国内民众对有害大气污染的不满进一步加大了中国减少煤炭用量的压力。煤是雾霾现象和碳排放的主要来源。
But China’s leaders have not yet detailed just how high the country’s emissions are likely to rise before they peak, or how rapidly they might decline afterward — important elements in forecasting global concentrations of greenhouse gases. Mr. Li’s new carbon intensity target does not directly answer those questions because it is a relative measure, yoked to the rate of economic growth, which can rise or fall.
然而，中国的领导人尚未详细说明本国的排放量在达到峰值前可能会增加多少，或者此后会以怎样的速度减少，而这两样是预测全球温室气体浓度的重要指标。李克强提出的碳排放强度新目标并没有直接回答这些问题，因为这是与经济增长率挂钩的相对衡量标准，而经济增长率可升可降。
China would probably be able to adopt more stringent goals to reduce emissions, but prefers a more conservative approach in international negotiations, said several analysts.
一些分析人士表示，中国很可能具备采用更严格的减排目标的能力，但倾向于在国际谈判中保持比较保守的态度。