During his trip to China last week — a visit important for its timing and the difficult issues it tackled, principally in five hours of talks with President Xi Jinping — Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. had breakfast with American business leaders.
美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)上周访华期间，与美国的商界领袖共进了一次早餐。由于此次访华的时机以及在此期间（主要是与中国国家主席习近平的五个小时谈话中）处理了多项棘手问题，拜登此行意义重大。
Mr. Biden likes to quote the Irish poet William Butler Yeats, and he did so again.
拜登一向喜欢引用爱尔兰诗人威廉·巴特勒·叶芝(William Butler Yeats)的诗句，这次他又这么做了。
“William Butler Yeats wrote a poem called ‘Easter Sunday 1916,’ about the first rising in Ireland in the 20th century,” he said. (For the record, the title is “Easter, 1916.’’)
拜登说，“威廉·巴特勒·叶芝写过一首诗，叫做《1916年复活节周日》(Easter Sunday 1916)，这首诗讲的是20世纪爱尔兰历史上的首次起义。”（这首诗的标题实际上是《1916年复活节》[Easter, 1916]）
“And he had a line in it that better describes, I would argue, the Pacific Basin in the year 2013 than it did in his Ireland in 1916,” he continued.
他接着说，“其中有一句，我认为用它来形容2013年的太平洋地区，比形容1916年的爱尔兰更恰当。”
“He said, ‘All is changed, changed utterly, a terrible beauty has been born.’” (More exactly: “All changed, changed utterly: A terrible beauty is born.”)
“他说，‘一切都变了，彻底变了，一种恐怖之美业已诞生。’”（该诗原句是，“一切都变了，彻底变了，一种恐怖之美诞生了。”）
The United States, Mr. Biden continued, is “at a moment, a window, as they say, of opportunity” with China “that set down sort of the tracks for progress in the 21st century. I think it is that profound. I think that’s the place, that’s the inflection point we are at in our relationship now — not only with China but the entire region.”
拜登接着说，美国和中国“正处在人们所说的机遇期，为21世纪的发展道路设定了某种方向。我认为影响就是这么深远。我认为这就是我们所在的位置，我们正处在彼此关系中的拐点——不光是同中国的关系，还包括同整个地区的关系”。
An “inflection point” is a moment of dramatic change. In mathematics it’s when a curve shifts from convex to concave, or vice versa.
“拐点”是指发生剧烈变化的时刻。在数学中，它指的是凸曲线与凹曲线的连接点。
Some issues that may have led the vice president to see things that way include: China’s abrupt declaration of an “air defense identification zone” over much of the East China Sea where it has territorial disputes with neighbors; its announcement that it intends to move toward a system where the market plays a “decisive role,” something Mr. Biden described as “a very, very big order”; and other challenging economic and social changes flagged at the recently concluded Third Plenum of the Communist Party. He mentioned “profound disagreements” in the treatment of journalists.
让拜登产生上述想法的事件包括：中国突然宣布在东海一大片地区设立“防空识别区”，而中国与一些邻国在东海存在领土争议；中国宣布打算向着一个让市场扮演“决定性角色”的制度迈进——拜登说，这是一个“非常非常重大的决定”；除此之外，还有前不久结束的中国共产党三中全会上提出的其他经济和社会改革。拜登还提到了美国与中国在如何对待记者方面的“重大分歧”。
In short: China is rising, globalization is progressing, and systems are colliding.
简而言之：中国在崛起，全球化在向前推进；各种制度在相互碰撞。
Are things at an “inflection point”? How do Chinese commentators see it?
我们真的处在一个“拐点”吗？中国的评论人士是怎么看的？
Zhang Lifan, a prominent independent scholar, believes so. He says it’s a deeply uncomfortable moment.
著名独立学者章立凡持同样看法。他说，目前是一个让人感到非常不舒适的时刻。
“I agree with Biden’s point of view,” he said.
他说，“我同意拜登的观点。”
“I think that, economically, we’ve hit the limits of the system and must change. The political system is the same. The old system can’t go on. This is the ‘inflection point’ that China is facing,” he said in an interview.
章立凡在接受采访时说，“我认为，在经济方面，我们已达到了制度的极限，必须改变。政治制度也是一样。旧的制度无法再继续。这就是中国面临的’拐点’。”
“China’s economic growth has produced the world’s second-biggest economy, and that has created a feeling of arrogance. China feels it can set the rules. So issues like the air zone are testing the waters, seeing how international society responds: Will it yield to China? The fact that it notified the U.S. just half an hour before announcing it was also a test,” Mr. Zhang said.
章立凡说，“中国已经成长为世界第二大经济体，并因此产生了一种傲慢。中国认为自己可以制定规则。所以，在防空识别区等问题上，中国正在进行试探，想看看国际社会将如何回应：它是否会向中国屈服？中国在宣布设定防空识别区的半个小时之前通知了美国，这也是在试探。”
“I think that China’s position today is a very lonely one,’’ he said. “It’s like a car barreling the wrong way down a highway. The direction it’s taking contradicts its own beliefs, contradicts universal values.’’
他说，“我认为中国目前的立场是非常孤立的。中国就像公路上高速逆行的汽车。它的方向与自身的信念相悖，也与普世价值相背离。
Xie Tao, a professor at Beijing Foreign Studies University, is the author, with Benjamin I. Page, of “Living With the Dragon.’’
北京外国语大学教授谢韬和本杰明·I·佩奇(Benjamin I. Page)合著了《与龙为伴》(Living With the Dragon)一书。
China’s authoritarian system is causing friction globally, he said.
谢韬说，中国的威权制度正在全球范围内引起摩擦。
“China’s attitude is, ‘If you respect me, don’t challenge me!’ In the West, I can disagree with your point of view but still respect you,” he said. “It’s our political system that has produced this attitude.”
他说，“中国的态度是， ‘如果你尊重我，那就别挑战我！’而在西方，我可能不同意你的观点，但我仍然尊重你，这种态度是我们政治制度的产物。”  
“China doesn’t know how to conduct foreign relations,” he said. “We have power, but don’t know how to use it.
他说，“中国不知道如何开展外交，中国有影响力，但不知道如何用。”
“What China is trying to do now is to figure out how to ‘merge tracks’ with the international community while maintaining its economic growth and political stability. These two issues are what leaders are most concerned about.”
“中国现在试图做的就是要搞明白，如何与国际社会 ‘并轨’，同时维持经济发展和政治稳定。这两个问题是中国领导人最关心的。”
Mr. Zhang said the international community should respond firmly.
章立凡说，国际社会应该做出强有力的回应。
“I think that when you deal with a person who doesn’t understand the rules, you have to get him to understand them,” he said. “Otherwise you will find yourself having to yield to a crude and rash fellow.”
他说，“我认为，当你和一个不懂规则的人打交道时，你必须首先让他理解规则。否则的话，你最终注定会败给一个粗鲁而轻率的家伙。”