The symptoms, medical experts say, appear suddenly and often linger for months: insomnia, irritability, depression and an obsession with tracking stock prices.
据医学专家介绍，这种症状出现得极为突然，经常持续数月：失眠、易怒、抑郁以及对股价监测的着迷。
Amid the recent turmoil in China’s stock markets, as values plummeted from all-time highs, doctors have reported a surge in what they’re calling gupiao jiaolü zheng (股票焦虑症), or “stock market anxiety syndrome.”
最近中国股价由高点暴跌，股票市场动荡不堪，医生们反应，患有他们称之为“股票焦虑症”的患者激增。
In some cities, students have dropped out of university, unable to give up their habit of tracking their investments, according to local news media. Wealthy investors have sought counseling, struggling to come to terms with the enormity of their losses after stock prices plunged. In response, doctors are advising traders to take up new hobbies and spend more time with family and friends. Some medical experts say high-risk groups, such as the elderly, the physically infirm and emotionally unstable, should consider withdrawing from the markets altogether.
根据当地媒体报道，在一些城市，部分大学生因无法放弃追踪他们的投资而中断学业。富有的投资者则因为难以接受股价暴跌之后的巨大经济损失，转而寻求咨询帮助。作为回应，医生们建议股民培养新的兴趣，并花更多时间与家人朋友相处。一些医学专家说，高风险人群包括年长、身体虚弱、情绪不稳的人，他们应该考虑从股市彻底抽身。
“It’s not worth it to risk your psychological well-being against the odds of earning huge fortunes,” said Zhang Yi, a counselor at Beijing Anding Hospital. Dr. Zhang said she recently treated a 52-year-old woman for depression, after the woman lost 1 million renminbi, about $160,000, in two weeks.
“用你的心理健康冒险去赚取巨额收益是不值得的，”北京安定医院咨询师张怡（音译）说。张医生说，她最近接诊了一位52岁的患抑郁症的女士，该女士在两周内损失了一百万元人民币，约16万美元。
Experts in Chinese traditional medicine said playing the stock market is dangerous because it can stir up unhealthy emotions, such as fear and shock.
中医方面专家曾说过，炒股是有危险的，因为这会引起不健康的情绪，比如害怕和激动。
“If you’re not mentally strong, don’t go play in the market,” said Fan Yongping, director of the Chinese Medicine Department of Beijing Tiantan Hospital.
“如果你心理不够强大，别炒股，”北京天坛医院中医科主任樊永平说。
With volatility persisting in the markets, state news media outlets have offered several cautionary tales about stock market anxiety syndrome. Global Times recounted the story of Frank Feng, a 26-year-old financial news reporter in Beijing who lost around 60,000 renminbi, nearly all his savings.
股市持续动荡，中国官方媒体已经就股市焦虑症刊登了若干警示性故事。《环球时报》详述了驻北京的财经新闻记者、26岁的弗兰克·冯(Frank Feng)的故事，他在股市中损失了约6万人民币，这几乎是他全部的积蓄。
“He was very dedicated to work and liked to socialize with people, but now he has become extremely moody and is on the verge of a nervous breakdown,” the newspaper reported. “When the bull market turned bear, he began to fail to control his temper and sometimes would become furious, suddenly letting out screams for no reason.”
“他工作十分努力，喜爱与人社交，但现在他的脾气已变得极度反复无常，处于精神崩溃的边缘，”报纸上写道。“当牛市转为熊市，他开始无法控制自己的脾气，有时会变得狂怒，忽然间不明原因地大叫。”
Medical experts said that stock market anxiety syndrome is not a new psychological disorder, but a manifestation of more familiar afflictions such as depression.
医疗专家说，股市焦虑症并非新出现的心理疾病，不过是人们比较熟悉的病症的一种表现，如抑郁症。