BEIJING — President Trump has won preliminary approval to register 27 new trademarks in China for industries including restaurants and advertising, business interests that could add to criticism over his potential conflicts.
北京——中国已初步批准特朗普总统注册27个新商标，涉及餐厅和广告在内的行业，这些商业利益可能会招致更多关于存在潜在冲突的指责。
As a businessman, Mr. Trump has amassed a vast portfolio of trademarks around the world, as he seeks to protect his brands and his products. Those trademarks, at times, clash with the vision of a populist president who has espoused an “America First” strategy.
作为一名商人，特朗普寻求保护自己的品牌和产品，在世界各地囤积了大量商标。这些商标有时候与一位信奉“美国优先”策略的民粹主义总统形象格格不入。
China has been among the biggest targets for his business prospects. Including the latest batch, his companies have filed for at least 126 trademarks in China since 2005 for restaurants, bars, hotels, brokerage services, advertising and management consulting.
中国已是他商业前景最大的目标之一。包括最近这批商标在内，他的公司自2005年以来已在中国申请了至少126个商标，涉及餐厅、酒吧、酒店、经纪业务、广告和管理咨询。
The timing of the new trademarks could create a perception problem for Mr. Trump because they came so soon after he took office.
这批新商标获得批准的时机可能会给特朗普造成不好的看法，因为它们和他上台的时间离得太近了。
In February, the Chinese government announced that it was granting Mr. Trump the right to protect his name brand for construction projects, after a decade-long legal battle.
2月，中国政府宣布授予特朗普在建筑项目领域保护特朗普品牌的权利。在那之前，双方打了10年的官司。
A number of trademarks have followed, with China’s Trademark Office giving preliminary approval for the 27 new ones on Feb. 27 and on Monday, according to the agency’s website.
接着便是大量商标获批。中国商标局的网站显示，该机构在2月27日和周一初步批准了27个新商标。
The latest trademarks, which were under the name “Donald J. Trump,” were initially approved for use in golf clubs, insurance services, child-care centers and nursing homes, among other categories. They will be formally registered three months later, if the agency receives no objections. The Associated Press reported earlier about the trademarks.
最近这批名为“唐纳·川普”的商标起初获准用于高尔夫俱乐部、保险服务、育儿中心和养老院等等类别。如果商标局没收到反对意见，它们将在三个月后正式获得注册。美联社早前报道过这些商标。
Matthew Dresden, a lawyer with Harris Bricken in Seattle who specializes in Chinese intellectual property law, said it was atypical that all the trademarks were “approved at once.”
马修·德累斯顿(Matthew Dresden)是西雅图哈里斯-布里肯律师事务所(Harris Bricken)专攻中国知识产权法的律师，他说，“一次批准”所有这些商标不符合常规做法。
“I think that’s really odd. That makes you look and think: ‘Somebody got some instructions at the trademark office that these should be approved,’” Mr. Dresden said. “It’s unusual for that many trademarks to go through the examination process without any problems.”
“我觉得这件事真的很奇怪。它令你看了之后觉得‘商标局有人收到一些指示，要求批准这些’，”德累斯顿说道。“那么多商标顺利通过审查很少见。”
Scott Palmer, an intellectual property lawyer at Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton, which represents American corporations in China, played down the significance of the timing, emphasizing that the country’s law specifies that the trademark office should complete its examination of a filing within nine months. Mr. Trump had registered the trademarks last April.
代表在华美国企业的盛智律师事务所(Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton)知识产权律师斯科特·帕尔默(Scott Palmer)却并不认为这个时间节点有什么重要涵义，强调中国的法律明确规定，商标局应在九个月内完成对商标申请的审查。特朗普是去年4月注册相关商标的。
“There’s nothing inherent in that timing that is questionable or strange or should be viewed as out of the ordinary,” Mr. Palmer said. “The Trademark Office has been working on getting this timing right for a few years now, and the fact that they are hitting the target doesn’t mean they are likely to have played favorites.”
“这个时间本身没什么可疑、奇怪或应该被视为反常的，”帕尔默说。“最近几年里，商标局一直尽力遵守这个时间限制，他们实现了目标的事实，并不意味着他们在袒护。”
Critics say Mr. Trump’s trail of trademarks could leave the president vulnerable to potential conflicts of interest. In February, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California sounded alarms about China’s decision to award Mr. Trump his trademark in construction services, saying it could be a breach of the United States Constitution and that foreign governments could use his trademarks to influence foreign policy decisions.
批评人士称特朗普的一系列商标可能会导致他易受潜在利益冲突的影响。2月，中国决定在建筑服务领域授予特朗普商标一事引起了加利福尼亚州参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)的警觉，称此事可能违反了美国宪法，外国政府可能会利用他的商标来影响外交政策的决策。
It is unclear whether the Trump Organization will profit from the new trademarks. While the company has pursued a large number of hotel development deals in China, one of its executives recently suggested that the organization would drop those projects.
目前尚不清楚特朗普集团(Trump Organization)是否会从新商标中获利。尽管该公司在中国争取过大量酒店开发协议，但它的一名高管最近表示，该集团将放弃这些项目。
The Trump Organization has said it would not be doing any new international deals. Mr. Trump has said he is turning over control of his business to his two adult sons.
特朗普集团表示不会从事任何新的国际交易。特朗普自称正在把企业的控制权交给他两个已成年的儿子。
Alan Garten, executive vice president and chief legal officer at the Trump Organization, said in a statement: “The Trump Organization has been actively enforcing its intellectual property rights in China for more than a decade and its core real-estate related trademarks have been registered in China since 2011.”
特朗普集团执行副总裁兼首席法律顾问阿兰·加腾(Alan Garten)在一份声明中表示：“十多年来，特朗普集团一直在中国积极维护自己的知识产权，从2011年便开始在中国注册核心的房地产相关商标。”
He added: “The latest registrations are a natural result of those longstanding, diligent efforts, and any suggestion to the contrary demonstrates a complete disregard of the facts as well as a lack of understanding of international trademark law.”
他接着说：“最新的那些注册是长期以来坚持不懈的努力的自然结果，一切相反言论都是完全罔顾事实，对国际商标法缺乏了解。”
In recent years, China has enhanced its trademark laws to bring them more in line with the international legal system. In January, China’s top court said that celebrity names cannot be registered as trademarks in ways that could mislead consumers. The interpretation came a month after the court ruled largely in favor of Michael Jordan, the former basketball star, in a landmark decision that sets the ground rules for protecting personal names in trademark cases.
近年来，中国对商标法进行了完善，以便使其更加符合国际法律制度。1月，中国最高人民法院表示，不得以可能会误导消费者的方式将名人的姓名注册为商标。这个解读出来的一个月前，该法院在一份具有里程碑意义的裁决中基本裁定前篮球明星迈克尔·乔丹(Michael Jordan)胜诉。这份裁决为在商标案件中保护人名奠定了基本原则。
The Trump brand has been a ripe target for trademarks. Mr. Trump’s name can be found on toilets, cosmetics and leather goods in China — trademarks that have been registered by other people.
特朗普这个品牌已经成为了理所当然的商标注册目标。在中国，可以在抽水马桶、化妆品和皮革商品上看到特朗普的名字。其他人已经将其注册。
In a recent interview, Spring Chang, founder of Chang Tsi & Partners, a law firm in Beijing that represents the Trump Organization, said she did not want to comment on Mr. Trump’s specific trademarks. But she said she encouraged a “defensive strategy” for her clients to prevent a celebrity’s name from becoming treated as a generic term.
在最近的一次采访中，代表特朗普集团的北京铸成律师事务所创始人苍雨春说，她不想评论特朗普具体的商标。但她表示鼓励客户采取一种“防御策略”，以防名人的名字被视为通用术语。
Asked whether Mr. Trump plans to sue people who have registered his name as trademarks in China, Ms. Chang, who also represents Lady Gaga and Linkin Park in the country, said: “We haven’t discussed our strategy with him. As you know, he’s very, very busy.”
被问及特朗普是否打算起诉那些在中国把他的名字注册成商标的人时，同时担任Lady Gaga和林肯公园(Linkin Park)在中国代理人的苍雨春说：“我们还没和他讨论我们的策略。你知道的，他实在是太忙了。”