HONG KONG — The Chinese government on Saturday claimed the right to identify, monitor and possibly take military action against aircraft that enter a newly declared “air defense identification zone,” which covers sea and islands also claimed by Japan and threatens to escalate an already tense dispute over some of the maritime territory.
香港——中国政府周六称，中国有权对进入新宣布的“防空识别区”的航空器进行识别和监控，甚或对其采取军事行动。该识别区覆盖了日本也声称拥有主权的海域和岛屿，可能会导致部分领海引发的本已紧张的争端升级。
The move appeared to be another step in China’s efforts to intensify pressure on Japan over the Japanese-controlled islands in the East China Sea that are at the heart of the dispute.
此举似乎是中国就东海一些日控岛屿向日本进一步施压的又一举措，这些岛屿是中日争端的核心。
The declaration, from a Ministry of National Defense spokesman, Col. Yang Yujun, accompanied the ministry’s release of a map, geographic coordinates and rules in Chinese and English that said “China’s armed forces will take defensive emergency measures to respond to aircraft that do not cooperate in identification or refuse to follow orders.”
宣布成立该识别区的是中国国防部发言人杨宇军上校，国防部同时公布了一幅地图、一些地理坐标和一些中英双语的规则。该规则称，“对不配合识别或者拒不服从指令的航空器，中国武装力量将采取防御性紧急处置措施。”
“The objective is to defend national sovereignty and territorial and air security, as well as to maintain orderly aviation,” Colonel Yang said in comments issued on the ministry’s website.
杨宇军上校在发表于国防部网站的评论中说，“目的是捍卫国家主权和领土领空安全，维护空中飞行秩序。”
Later Saturday, China’s air force said it had sent its first planes, including fighter jets, to enforce the rules. Soon afterward, Japan scrambled its own fighter jets, Reuters reported, citing Japan’s Defense Ministry. A ministry spokesman said two Chinese reconnaissance planes had flown within about 25 miles of what Japan considers its airspace, Reuters said.
周六晚些时候，中国空军称已派遣包括战斗机在内的首批飞机去执行前述规则。路透社(Reuters)援引日本防卫省(Defense Ministry)的话报道称，不久之后，日本便紧急派出了自己的战斗机。据路透社报道，防卫省一名发言人表示，两架中国侦察机飞到了距日本视为自己领空的地区不足25英里（约合40公里）的地方。
The Chinese announcement followed months of increasing tension over the uninhabited islands as China appeared to be taking moves to establish its claim to them, including more frequent ship patrols in the area. Those patrols have led to cat-and-mouse games between Chinese and Japanese ships near the islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China.
中方作出此次声明之前的数月，围绕这些无人岛屿的紧张局势日益加剧，因为中国似乎正在通过种种措施确立对它们的主权，其中包括更频繁地派遣船只去该地区巡逻。这些巡逻活动导致中日两国船只在相关岛屿附近玩起了猫捉老鼠的游戏，这些岛屿在中国被称作钓鱼岛，在日本被称作尖阁诸岛。
But trying to control the airspace over the islands could prove particularly problematic. Japan considers that airspace its own and has scrambled fighter jets in the past to try to ensure that Chinese aircraft did not enter. As the potential for a miscalculation that leads to conflict has increased, the United States has become worried that as an ally of Japan, it could be dragged into any conflict with China.
然而，事实可能将证明，尝试控制相关岛屿上空可能会带来特别大的问题。日本认为该空域属于自己，过去还曾多次紧急派出战斗机，防止中国航空器进入该空域。鉴于因误判引发冲突的可能性有所增大，美国已经开始担心，身为日本的盟友，自己可能会被卷入中日冲突。
Secretary of State John Kerry said the United States was “deeply concerned” about China’s announcement. “Escalatory action will only increase tensions in the region and create risks of an incident,” Mr. Kerry said in a statement. He urged China “to exercise caution and restraint.” 
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)说，美国对中国的宣告“深感担忧”。克里在一则声明中说，“逐步升级的行动只会加剧地区紧张局势，产生事故风险。”他敦促中国“保持谨慎和克制”。
The Japanese Foreign Ministry said the government had lodged a “serious protest” with China. An official there, speaking on the condition of anonymity as is ministry practice, said the head of Asian affairs had called the Chinese Embassy in Tokyo on Saturday to warn that the move could escalate tensions and was “extremely dangerous as it could trigger unpredictable events.”
日本外务省说，日本政府已经向中国提出了“严正抗议”。外务省的一名官员说，亚洲外交事务负责人已在上周六致电东京的中国驻日使馆，警告称此举可能会加剧紧张态势，而且“极度危险，因为它可能引发不测后果”。由于部门规定，这名官员要求匿名发言。
Colonel Yang said that the declaration of the air zone was not aimed at any particular country, and that it would not impede the freedom of commercial flight over the East China Sea. But his words left little doubt that the move could be used against the Japanese government and military aircraft.
杨宇军说，防空识别区的宣布不针对任何特定国家，也不会妨碍东海上空的商业飞行自由。可是，他的话无疑表明，防空识别区可以被用来对付日本政府和军用飞机。
The longstanding dispute between Beijing and Tokyo over the islands flared last year, before Xi Jinping assumed leadership of the Chinese Communist Party in November. The spark was a decision by the Japanese government to buy some of the islands from a Japanese citizen. Japan said the move was to keep the islands out of the hands of a nationalist politician who might increase tensions, but China saw the purchase as Japan’s effort to strengthen its hold on the islands.
在习近平于去年11月接掌中国共产党领导权之前，旷日持久的中日岛屿争端出现激化。事情的导火索是日本政府决定从一名日本公民手中购买部分争议岛屿。日方说，这么做是为了避免让争议岛屿落入一名民族主义政客手中，该政客可能会加剧中日之间紧张的局势，然而，中方把日本的购岛行为视为对方强化岛屿控制的手段。
The new Chinese rules left unclear how frequently and thoroughly China intends to enforce them. But Chinese state-run news media widely reported the announcement, which could kindle public expectations that the government will take steps to back up its words.
中方的新规定没有明确阐述，中方意图以什么样的频率和力度履行规定。不过，中国官方新闻媒体广泛报道了此次公告，可能会让民众期待政府采取措施来兑现公告内容。
Military experts have said that even if Japan and China seek to avoid outright confrontation over the islands, there is the risk that an unplanned episode could spiral into a wider military conflict.
军事专家表示，即使中日力图避免因岛屿争端而来的全面对抗，意外事件扩大成更广泛军事冲突的风险依然存在。