A senior Communist Party official in northeastern China said that China was at work on a home-built aircraft carrier and had plans to operate a fleet of at least four of the vessels, a Hong Kong newspaper reported.
香港一家报纸报道称，中国东北的一名共产党高级官员说，中国正在建造一艘国产航空母舰，而且计划未来将拥有至少四艘航母。
The comments by Wang Min, the party secretary of Liaoning Province, are an official indication of what outside observers have long predicted: that China’s commissioning of a refurbished aircraft carrier in 2012 was only a first step in its effort to develop its capacity to build and sail its own aircraft carriers.
辽宁省委书记王珉的这番话是对外界观察者长期以来的猜测的正式认可，也就是说，中国在2012年起用的一艘改装航母只是发展本国制造并航行这种军舰能力的第一步。
According to the Hong Kong-based Ta Kung Pao, Mr. Wang said on Saturday that China’s second aircraft carrier was being built at a shipyard in the coastal city of Dalian and should be completed in six years.
香港《大公报》消息称，王珉周六称中国的第二艘航空母舰正在沿海城市大连的一家造船厂建造，预计工期为六年。
China’s first aircraft carrier, named Liaoning for the city where it was refurbished, was purchased from Ukraine and towed to China, where it underwent years of work before joining the Chinese fleet in 2012.
中国的第一艘航母“辽宁号”以其改装厂所在城市辽宁命名，是中国从乌克兰购买并拖运过来的，经过了好几年的改造之后，于2012年开始在中国海军服役。
Other mainland media sought to downplay Mr. Li’s statement. News of China’s aircraft carrier “isn’t worth fussing over,” Li Jie, a professor at the People’s Liberation Army’s Naval Military Studies Research Institute.
其他一些大陆媒体试图淡化王珉的话。海军军事学术研究所教授李杰在《环球时报》上写道，关于中国建造航母的消息“没什么值得大惊小怪。”
Mr. Li argued that the United States, with 11 aircraft carriers, had attempted to play up China’s naval development as a threat. India, with two aircraft carriers and a third under construction, also has an advantage over China, he wrote. “We should confidently develop aircraft carriers and promptly respond to the outside world’s questions,” he wrote, “so that this ‘China threat theory’ won’t find a market in international society.”
李杰指出，美国有11艘航母，却一直试图把中国海军的发展夸大为一种威胁。印度有两艘航母，目前正在修建第三艘，也比中国有优势，他写道，“我们应当理直气壮地发展航母，及时回应外界质疑，让‘中国威胁论’难以在国际社会中找到市场。”
Last year the United States Department of Defense predicted in its annual report on China’s military development that China would “likely build multiple aircraft carriers over the next decade,” with the first of those becoming operational before 2020.
美国国防部去年在年度报告中对中国军事发展的预计是，中国“可能会在未来十年内建造多艘航母，”其中的首批将在2020年以前开始服役。