The Department of Agriculture on Friday approved four Chinese poultry processors to begin shipping a limited amount of meat to the United States, a move that is likely to add to the debate over food imports.
周五，美国农业部(Department of Agriculture)批准四家中国禽肉加工厂向美国运输少量肉类产品，此举很可能会使关于食品进口的争论变得更加激烈。
Initially, the companies will be allowed to export only cooked poultry products from birds raised in the United States and Canada. But critics predicted that the government would eventually expand the rules, so that chickens and turkeys bred in China could end up in the American market.
刚开始，这些公司只获准向美国出口在美国和加拿大养殖的禽类制作的熟禽肉产品。但据批评人士预计，政府最终会放宽规定，那样的话，在中国饲养的鸡和火鸡就可能会进入美国市场。
“This is the first step towards allowing China to export its own domestic chickens to the U.S.,” said Tony Corbo, the senior lobbyist for Food and Water Watch, an advocacy group that works to promote food safety.
倡导食品安全的倡议团体食品与水观察组织(Food and Water Watch)的资深说客托尼·科尔博(Tony Corbo)说，“这是允许中国向美国出口中国本土饲养的鸡的第一步。”
The U.S.D.A.’s decision follows years of wrangling over the issue, and comes as Americans are increasingly focused on the origin of their food.
美国农业部做出上述决定之前，各方面已经在这个问题上进行了数年争吵。决定出台之时，美国人也越来越关注食品来源。
In recent years, imports have been the source of contamination, prompting broader worries about food safety. The Food and Drug Administration just released an analysis of imported spices, showing high levels of salmonella in coriander, oregano, sesame seeds and curry powder.
近年来，进口产品成了食物污染的来源，人们由此更加担心食品安全。美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）刚刚发布了一份关于进口调味品的分析报告。报告显示，香菜、牛至、芝麻和咖哩粉中都存在大量沙门氏菌。
China does not have the best track record for food safety, and its chicken products in particular have raised questions. The country has had frequent outbreaks of deadly avian influenza, which it sometimes has been slow to report.
中国一直在食品安全方面的记录不佳，其鸡肉产品尤其令人担忧。中国频繁爆发致命性禽流感，报告疫情的速度有时也很慢。
Recently, an F.D.A. investigation tied the deaths of more than 500 dogs and a handful of cats to chicken jerky treats that came from China. The treats, which were eventually recalled, additionally were blamed for sickening more than 2,500 animals.
最近，FDA的一项调查把500多只狗和少量猫的死亡与进口自中国的鸡肉干联系在了一起。这些产品最终被召回，人们还认为它是另外2500多只动物的病源。
The proposed sale of Smithfield Foods to Shuanghui International, a major Chinese food processor, has added to the industry scrutiny. In July, senators from both parties questioned Larry Pope, the chief executive of Smithfield, about the implications of his company’s deal for food safety and United States employment.
把史密斯菲尔德食品公司(Smithfield Foods)卖给中国大型食品加工企业双汇国际的提议也引起了行业内的担心。7月，两党参议员对史密斯菲尔德的首席执行官拉里·波普(Larry Pope)进行了质询，希望了解此次交易对食品安全和美国就业率的影响。
Mr. Pope responded that the deal was intended to address the rising demand for meat in China and that American workers would be employed in that effort. “This means increased capacity for U.S. producers, more jobs in processing and more exports for the U.S. economy,” Mr. Pope said. “At the same time, we will continue to supply our same high-quality, renowned products to U.S. consumers.”
波普回应称，该交易是为了满足中国日益增长的肉类需求，因此会给美国工人带来就业机会。”对于美国的生产商来说，这意味着提高生产能力，这个过程会带来更多工作，也为美国经济带来更大的出口额，”波普说。“与此同时，我们将继续为美国消费者提供与之前一样的高品质知名产品。”
The poultry trade between the United States and China has been contentious for years. Under the Bush administration, the U.S.D.A. moved to allow imports of chicken from China, which has banned imports of American beef since 2003 over worries about mad cow disease.
多年来，美中禽类贸易一直存在争议。在布什(Bush)政府时期，美国农业部曾尝试允许从中国进口鸡肉。出于对疯牛病的担心，中国自2003年以来一直禁止进口美国牛肉。
In response, Congress blocked Chinese chicken exports. China retaliated by slapping huge tariffs on American chicken. The fight ended up at the World Trade Organization, which ruled that the tariffs were too high.
作为回应，当时的美国国会阻止美国从中国进口鸡肉。中国则通过对美国鸡肉征收高额关税进行反击。世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)裁定中国征收的关税过高，结束了这场争斗。
After that, the U.S.D.A. then audited Chinese processing plants, giving its approval for them to process raw birds from the United States and Canada.
之后，美国农业部对中国的一些加工厂进行了审查，批准这些厂家加工来自美国和加拿大的生禽。
Under the new rules, the Chinese facilities will verify that cooked products exported to the United States came from American or Canadian birds. So no U.S.D.A. inspector will be present in the plants.
根据新规定，中国工厂将负责保证，出口至美国的熟禽肉产品确由喂养于美国或加拿大的禽类制成。因此，美国农业部的检查员不会出现在中国的加工厂。
And because the poultry will be processed, it will not require country-of-origin labeling. Nor will consumers eating chicken noodle soup from a can or chicken nuggets in a fast-food restaurant know if the chicken came from Chinese processing plants.
这些禽类有待加工，因此不需要标注原产国。那些食用灌装鸡汤面或在快餐店吃炸鸡块的消费者无法得知，鸡肉是否来自中国的加工厂。
“We certainly don’t look forward to any more imports, but we also realize free trade is a two-way street,” said Tom Super, spokesman for the National Chicken Council, which represents big chicken processors in the United States. “We’re hoping the Chinese will look a little more favorably on our chicken products and on other U.S. agricultural imports.”
“我们当然不希望看到更多的进口产品，但我们也认识到，自由贸易是双向的，”全美养鸡理事会(National Chicken Council)发言人汤姆·舒佩尔(Tom Super)说。“我们希望，中国能以更友善的态度来对待我们的鸡肉产品，以及其他从美国进口的农产品。”该理事会代表美国的大型鸡肉加工厂。