Family planning officials in the eastern coastal city of Wuxi are apparently at wit’s end with a nationwide effort to find the internationally acclaimed director Zhang Yimou, according to a report by the state-run news agency Xinhua.
中国官方媒体新华社的一则报道显示，在寻找国际知名导演张艺谋的全国范围的行动中，中国东部沿海地区无锡市的计生官员似乎无计可施了。
Mr. Zhang, who directed the popular films “Raise the Red Lantern” and “Hero,” has reportedly been under investigation by the Wuxi family planning commission since May after allegations surfaced online that he had fathered seven children, several out of wedlock, in violation of several of China’s family planning rules.
据报道，广受观众喜爱的电影《大红灯笼高高挂》和《英雄》的导演张艺谋今年5月以来受到了无锡市计生委的调查。此前，网上有人称张艺谋有七名子女，其中几名为非婚生，违反了多项计划生育规定。
According to the Xinhua report, the Wuxi family planning commission has tried to make contact with Mr. Zhang by “every possible means,” including sending multiple letters to his production company, visiting the residences of his wife’s relatives, and dispatching a team to Beijing.
根据新华社的报道，无锡计生委“千方百计”地联系张艺谋，包括向其制作公司发函，登门拜访张艺谋妻子的亲戚，以及派工作组赶赴北京。
People’s Daily reported that Mr. Zhang could face a fine of as much as 160 million renminbi, or $26.2 million, for his alleged transgressions, though a representative of the Wuxi family planning commission told Xinhua that contact would first need to be made with Mr. Zhang and his current wife, Chen Ting, in order to determine the exact amount.
《人民日报》报道称，张艺谋可能面临多达人民币1.6亿元的超生罚款，不过无锡计生委的一名负责人告诉新华社，具体数额只有联系到张艺谋和他的现任妻子陈婷以后才能确定。
“As of right now, the reality is that we just have not received a satisfactory response,” the representative told Xinhua.
这名负责人告诉新华社，“实际上到现在为止，我们尚未得到满意的回应。”
Meanwhile, Mr. Zhang has been busy on location for the past several months in Beijing and Tianjin filming his latest movie, “Return,” a Cultural Revolution-era film starring Gong Li and Chen Daoming. In a short video posted on the film’s official video diary on Nov. 11, Mr. Zhang was seen on set working with designers to perfect the fake frost on the windowpanes.
与此同时，张艺谋过去几个月一直忙于在北京和天津拍摄其最新电影《归来》，这是一部由巩俐和陈道明主演的以文革为背景的电影。电影《归来》官方微博11月11日上传的视频日志中显示，张艺谋导演正在片场与设计师们一起工作，让玻璃上的霜看起来更逼真。
It is unclear whether the family planning officials have been aware of Mr. Zhang’s recent whereabouts. Calls to officials at the Wuxi family planning office as well as to Mr. Zhang on Wednesday went unanswered.
目前还不清楚计生官员是否已经知道张艺谋最近身在何方。记者周三致电无锡计生委和张艺谋，均无人接听。
China’s family planning rules have been in the headlines since last week’s announcement of the government’s decision to relax the one-child limit on many couples, which has been in place since the 1970s. Under the new rules, which allow for more couples to have two children, Mr. Zhang, with his rumored seven children, would probably still face hefty fines.
自从中国上周宣布对许多家庭放宽独生子女的限制以来，计划生育政策一直是媒体关注的焦点。中国的独生子女政策始于上世纪70年代。新规定允许更多夫妇生两个孩子，但据传张艺谋有七名子女，因此他可能仍要面对巨额罚款。
The news of the search for Mr. Zhang has given rise to rampant mockery on the popular microblogging site Sina Weibo.
寻找张艺谋的消息在广受欢迎的新浪微博上激起了网友们的大肆嘲讽。
A missing persons ad making the rounds online on Wednesday was marked under the hashtag #helpfamilyplanningofficialsfindzhangyimou and read: “Zhang Yimou, well-known Chinese film director, missing for almost 6 months despite ‘close scrutiny’ of Wuxi family planning officials, despite the fact that they have made every possible effort to find Zhang Yimou, even dispatching a team to Beijing, but in the end: Still! No! Word!”
周三，网上流传着一则标签为#帮计生委找张艺谋#的寻人启事：张艺谋，中国著名电影导演，都半年了，虽然无锡计生委“高度重视”，千方百计联系张艺谋和陈婷，并派出工作小组，赶赴北京去找张艺谋，但结果：没！找！着！
But others have voiced resentment over what they perceive to be preferential treatment by the authorities of Mr. Zhang.
另外一些人则表达了对在其看来有关部门偏袒张艺谋的行为的不满。
“What if this was just an ordinary citizen?” read one comment. “They would have found him 800 times already! What use is this commission anyway?”
一则评论写道，“如果是普通人呢？他们肯定都能找到800遍了，计生委究竟干什么吃的？”