China, which has been gradually opening up its financial system, is about to let foreign hedge funds stick a small toe in.
一直在逐步开放金融市场的中国准备让海外对冲基金小试牛刀。
Regulators in the city of Shanghai have agreed to let a group of American and British hedge funds operate in China as part of a pilot program, according to people briefed on the program. The funds are expected to be able to raise $50 million each from Chinese institutions to invest around the world, these people said.
据知情人士透露，作为试点计划的一部分，上海的监管机构已经同意几家美国和英国对冲基金在中国开展业务。这些知情人士说，每家基金有望从中国金融机构筹资5000万美元（约合3亿元人民币），在全球进行投资。
“It’s just the first step. The notion of the floodgates opening is not something you can reconcile with the developments of the markets in China,” said Pierre Lagrange, chairman of the Man Group Asia.  The Man Group, based in London, is the only one of the six funds to confirm that it has been chosen by Chinese authorities.
英仕曼集团(Man Group)亚洲区主席罗然志(Pierre Lagrange)说，“这只是第一步。打开闸门和在中国市场取得发展并不是同一个概念。”六家获得许可的对冲基金当中，惟有位于伦敦的英仕曼集团确认自己已被中国当局选中。
Regulators have also granted Oaktree, Och-Ziff, Citadel and Canyon Partners, all based in the United States, and the British company Winton Capital permission under the test program called the Qualified Domestic Limited Partner program.
试点计划名为合格境内有限合伙人(Qualified Domestic Limited Partner, 简称QDLP)，获得监管机构批准加入计划的还有总部位于美国的对冲基金橡树资本(Oaktree)、奥氏资本(Och-Ziff)、城堡投资(Citadel)和Canyon Partners，以及英国的元盛资本管理公司(Winton Capital)。
It is just one move that Chinese officials have taken in recent months to begin dismantling some barriers that separate their country from global markets. Still, it will be an important test as regulators define the parameters of what foreign funds can and cannot do.
这只是中国官员最近几个月采取的多项行动之一，行动的目的是消除部分壁垒，这些壁垒把中国隔绝在了全球市场之外。尽管如此，随着监管机构确定海外基金的经营范围，此次的试点依然会成为一次重要的测试。
“I think everyone and their mother wanted to get in, and we’re very happy and proud to have been selected,” said Mr. Lagrange, who is also co-founder of GLG Partners and oversees the Man Group’s long- and short-equity strategy. The fund has been seeking approval in China for several years, he said.
罗然志说，“按我看，任何一家公司和他们的母公司都想参与进来，对于入选，我们感到非常高兴、非常自豪。”他还是高雷公司(GLG Partners)的共同创始人，负责管理英仕曼集团的长期及短期股票策略。他说，过去几年里，自己的基金一直在争取中方的批准。
If the program is successful, it will open the door to the world’s biggest population of savers, who are still largely out of reach to the rest of the world.
如果取得成功，试点计划将打开通往全球最大储户群体的大门。从很大程度上说，海外金融机构迄今仍无法接触到这个群体。
“If you look at the pyramid of age — in China, you will have an aging population” that will demand certain wealth management products, Mr. Lagrange said.
罗然志说，“看看中国的年龄金字塔结构，你会看到一个老龄化的群体”，这个群体需要特定的理财产品。
But for now, authorities are taking a cautious approach in the financial services sector because of many moving pieces.
不过，就目前而言，由于存在多个变数，当局在金融服务业采取的是谨慎的策略。
One of those pieces is China’s currency, the renminbi, which is carefully controlled and trades within a tight band against the dollar. Authorities have a handful of tools they can use to keep the currency stable, including controlling how much money flows in and out of the country.
其中的一个变数是中国的货币人民币，人民币受到小心翼翼的控制，人民币兑美元交易也受到严格的管束。当局握有几种可以用来维持人民币稳定的工具，包括控制入境和出境的现金流量。
These capital controls mean that Chinese savers have limited options for investments.
这些资本控制手段意味着，中国储户的投资选择相当有限。
China’s biggest banks have stepped in to fill space, selling wealth management products that offer clients higher rates than bank deposits. The products are not officially recognized and help make up China’s estimated $6 trillion shadow banking industry.
中国最大的一些银行已经插手填补空白，销售各种理财产品，这些产品的收益高于银行的储蓄率。它们没有得到正式的认可，推动了规模预计高达6万亿美元的影子银行业的形成。
Recent financial reforms are part of policy makers’ efforts to channel those savings out of unregulated investment products and speculative real estate.
最近的金融改革是政策制定者所做的部分努力，目的是把存款导出不规范投资产品和投机性房地产业。
As a new financial landscape silently evolves, Wall Street and other financial hubs are watching closely.
随着新的金融版图悄悄演进，华尔街和其他金融枢纽正在密切观望。
News of the trial program was first reported by the 21st Century Business Herald, a Chinese newspaper. The hedge funds requested to be able to raise more than the initial $50 million, but Shanghai’s regulators are still testing the waters, according to the report.
率先报道前述试点计划的是中国报纸《21世纪经济报道》。根据该报的报道，对冲基金要求的筹款规模高于最初批准的5000万美元，然而，上海市的监管机构依然处于试水阶段。
As part of China’s effort at reform, Shanghai is expected to announce a free-trade zone in the coming months, which would make it easier for other financial services firms to tap what is expected to be the biggest source of wealth for decades to come.
作为中国金融改革的部分举措，上海预计会在未来的几个月里宣布成立自由贸易区，在接下来的几十年里，自贸区将使其它的金融服务公司能够更轻易地探取规模预计将为全球之最的巨额财富。
“When you talk with clients over there, they have the same questions as foreign investors, such as, ‘how do I transfer my savings from my bond portfolio in this end of cycle for the bond trend and into something more lucrative than cash,’ ” Mr. Lagrange said.
罗然志说，“和那里的客户交谈时，你会发现他们有着和外国投资者一样的疑问，比如说，‘在本轮债券周期走势结束时，我怎样才能把存款从债券组合中转移出来，投入收益比现金更高的产品？’”
“That’s where hedge funds should fit in and are fitting in,” he added.
他补充说，“这就是对冲基金应该填补，而且正在填补的空白。”