HONG KONG — China’s leaders are issuing increasingly clear signals that they plan another round of economic stimulus programs, as evidence accumulates that the economy is slowing more than expected this year.
香港——不断积累的证据表明今年的经济放缓超过预期，中国领导人正在发出日渐清晰的信号，表示他们计划采取新一轮的经济刺激措施。
A government-affiliated survey released Thursday of purchasing managers’ sentiment in nonmanufacturing sectors like construction, computer software and aviation showed a fairly sharp drop in March. The decline came with sentiment in the manufacturing sector bumping along at weak levels since January and with real estate prices beginning to rise less quickly and overall industrial activity starting to grow less briskly.
周四发布的一份政府下属的对诸如建筑、计算机软件和航空等非制造业采购经理意见的调查显示，这些行业的表现3月份出现了较大锐减。伴随这一下滑的是，制造业自1月份以来一直低迷的表现，房地产价格的上涨开始放缓，以及整体工业活动进入不再飞快增长的时期。
The State Council, China’s cabinet, made clear its willingness to step in with a statement late Wednesday night, following a meeting that day.
国务院在周三夜间明确表示愿意介入，这种表示是在当天白天的一次会议后做出的。
The statement described officials at the meeting as saying that China would “stimulate enterprises, expand domestic consumption and boost employment” this year.
在政府网站的描述中，参加这次会议的官员表示，中国会在今年“激发企业活力、有效扩大内需、促进就业”。
The government is also ready to adopt further fiscal measures if needed to help the economy “in coping with unexpected challenges,” the statement noted.
政府还表示做好了采取进一步财政措施的准备，在必要的时候帮助经济“应对不可预期的挑战”。
Economists described the government’s new effort as the beginnings of a “mini-stimulus” campaign.
经济学家将政府的这些新举措描述为“小规模经济刺激政策”。
Qu Hongbin, the co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC, and Sun Junwei, the bank’s China economist, said in a research note, “This may be a start of a slew of fine-turning measures.”
汇丰银行(HSBC)亚洲经济研究联席主管曲宏斌和该银行的中国经济学家孙珺玮在一份研究简报中写道，“这可能是一系列微调措施的开端。”
Yet the government’s promise of support drew a lukewarm welcome in the Shanghai stock market Thursday. Share prices edged up in the morning, only to slump in the afternoon, for a loss of 0.7 percent for the day, dragged down by the stocks of banks and real estate developers.
然而，政府表示愿意帮助的许诺，周四在上海股票市场上只得到了微弱的响应。股票价格在上午有所上升，但下午出现下跌，以当天下跌了0.7%收盘，主要是受了银行业和房地产开发商股票下跌的影响。
The decline reflected worries that government stimulus measures may not go far enough. The announcement Wednesday night had only one immediate consequence: an extension for one more year, through 2016, of an existing exemption from business taxes for the first 60,000 renminbi, or almost $10,000, of profits at small businesses. The State Council also said it was mulling a significant increase in the amount of profits that would be exempted.
股票的下跌反应出人们的一种担忧：政府的刺激措施可能力度不足。周三夜间的宣布中只有一个马上的结果，就是要将现行的、小微企业的企业所得税优惠政策延长一年，这些企业的年度应纳税所得的第一个6万元将免税至2016年底。国务院还表示，正在考虑将提高企业所得税优惠政策实施范围的上限。
The statement contained few other details, except to mention that railroad construction would be carried out rapidly and the renovation of rundown urban neighborhoods would continue.
除此之外，国务院的宣布中没有多少其他细节，只提到要加快铁路建设、以及继续改造城市中的棚户区。
China plans to open 4,100 miles of new rail lines this year, an increase of 620 miles from last year.
中国计划今年投产铁路新线6600公里以上，比去年增加1000多公里。
Prime Minister Li Keqiang has said the government will build or renovate homes for 4.7 million people living in makeshift shelters.
李克强总理表示，政府将为住在470万套各类棚户房的居民修建和改建住房。
China also intervened in currency markets on a huge scale in late February and through March, issuing torrents of renminbi to buy up dollars. That had the effect of at least temporarily driving the value of the renminbi down about 1 percent, which helps make Chinese exports more competitive in foreign markets. The extra renminbi moving through the economy also brought down short-term interest rates, making it easier for troubled real estate developers and other large borrowers to continue borrowing.
自2月底以来的整个3月份期间，中国还对货币市场进行了大规模的干预，发行了大量的人民币，用以购买美元。这至少将人民币的价值暂时降低了约1%，使国外市场上的中国出口产品更有竞争力。这些在经济中流动的额外人民币也降低了短期利率，让处境困难的房地产开发商和其他大笔借款方继续借款变得更容易。
But the scale of China’s measures so far is much smaller than those in 2009, during the global financial crisis. China limited its slowdown then with a huge spending program. The nation’s central bank also expanded China’s broadly measured money supply on a scale that dwarfed what the Federal Reserve achieved in the United States with its quantitative easing — the manipulation of the money supply and interest rates in an effort to stimulate growth.
但是到目前为止，中国这次刺激措施的规模仍远小于全球金融危机期间2009年的刺激措施规模。当时中国用庞大的支出项目，限制了经济放缓的速度。中国的央行还极大地提高了广义货币供应量，其规模之大让美联储(Federal Reserve)的量化宽松政策相形见绌，量化宽松指的是调整货币供应和利率以刺激经济增长。
Chinese leaders have called repeatedly since then for a shift toward consumption-led growth, but achieving that has proved difficult.
从那以后，中国领导人一直在呼吁要将经济向以消费为主导的增长模式转型，但事实证明实现这一目标并不容易。
The Asian Development Bank in a report on Tuesday called for governments across Asia, including China’s, to adjust their fiscal policies to promote economic growth that is more inclusive of the poor.
亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)周二在一份报告中呼吁包括中国在内的亚洲政府调整财政政策，以促进把更多穷人包括进来的经济增长。