The Great Wall in northern China cannot be seen with the naked eye from high orbit above the Earth or from the moon, as some people believe. For centuries, those who have wanted to see the wall have had to make a trip to Asia to lay eyes on one of the greatest surviving artificial structures in the world.
有些人认为，从地球上空高轨道或月球上可以肉眼看到中国北方的长城，其实不然。数百年来，那些希望看到长城的人必须前往亚洲，才能亲眼见到这片尚存于世的全球最宏大的人工建筑之一。
These days, though, there is less of it to see, according to an article in The Beijing Times that cites local officials, statistics and a Great Wall scholar. The article, which appeared on Sunday, said that 22 percent of what was considered the Ming dynasty Great Wall had disappeared. And the total length of the parts of the wall that have vanished, 1,961 kilometers, or 1,219 miles, is equal to about 30 percent of the artificial part of the Great Wall. (More than 6,200 kilometers of the Ming-era wall’s 8,851.8 kilometers is artificial, and the rest consist of natural barriers, the article said.)
不过，根据《京华时报》一篇文章的说法，如今可以看到的长城墙体比以前少了。周日发表的这篇文章援引了当地官员、统计数据和一名长城学者的说法，表示明长城已经消失了22%。人工墙体中，已消失的有1961公里，相当于这部分总长度的30%左右。（文中称，明长城总长8851.8公里，其中逾6200公里属人工建造，剩下的部分是自然天险。）
Those numbers were released in 2012 by the State Administration of Cultural Heritage, and no doubt more of the wall has disappeared since then.
这些数字是国家文物局在2012年发布的，自那之后，无疑已经有更多的墙体消失。
The Beijing Times article caused a stir on social media on Monday. People’s Daily, wrote in English on Twitter: “Report on vanishing Great Wall shocks the country.” Global Times, a newspaper overseen by People’s Daily, expressed anxiety in a Twitter post: “Nearly 30 percent of Great Wall disappears. Fancy a trip before it’s all gone?” People’s Daily Online and Global Times both ran stories on Monday that repeated the findings of The Beijing Times.
《京华时报》的这篇文章周一在社交媒体上掀起了一阵波澜。《人民日报》在Twitter上用英文写道：“长城消失的报道震惊了国人。”《人民日报》旗下的《环球时报》，也在Twitter上表达了忧虑：“近三成的长城已经消失。想在它全部不见之前去一趟吗？”人民网和《环球时报》的英文版都在本周一引用《京华时报》的调查结果，对此事进行了报道。
The Great Wall is not actually a single wall, of course. Beginning with the Qin dynasty, successive empires built different series of walled fortifications in the area now known as northern China. For example, the Han dynasty, which ruled China from 206 B.C. to 220 A.D., built walls and watchtowers along the Hexi Corridor, a passage between mountains and high plateaus leading through the Gobi Desert in western China. Remnants of the Han-era Great Wall can be found west of the former oasis town of Dunhuang and were explored in the early 20th century by Sir Aurel Stein, the British archaeologist.
当然，长城并不是单独的一段墙体。自秦王朝开始，历朝历代在目前的中国北方地区修建了不同系列的墙体工事。例如，从公元前206年到公元220年统治中国的汉朝，就沿着河西走廊修筑了城墙和碉楼。河西走廊是穿越山地和高原的一条通道，去往中国西部的戈壁沙漠。人们还可以在曾经的绿洲之城敦煌以西看到残存的汉长城。20世纪初，英国考古学家奥雷尔·斯坦因爵士(Sir Aurel Stein)曾经勘探过这段长城。
The Ming dynasty Great Wall also stretched into Gansu and ended at a desert site called Jiayuguan, east of the surviving Han sections.
明长城也延伸至今天的甘肃，直至地处沙漠地带的嘉峪关，在遗存的汉长城以东。
It is the parts of the wall built during the Ming, which ruled China from 1368 to 1644, that are the best preserved. In Beijing, most tourists go to see the Ming wall at the renovated sections at Badaling or Mutianyu. In November 2009, President Obama walked along a temporarily closed-off section of Badaling, which is usually mobbed with tourists. In March of last year, his wife, Michelle Obama, went to Mutianyu with their two daughters and, to descend, took a ride in a plastic sled down a popular tourist slide.
明朝统治的时间从1368年至1644年，而当时所建的长城是保存最完好的部分。在北京，大多数游客会游览八达岭或慕田峪这些经过翻修的明长城片段。2009年11月，奥巴马总统沿着八达岭临时封闭的地段行走，而那里通常挤满了游客。去年3月，第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)与两个女儿踏访慕田峪，并乘坐塑料雪橇沿着一条热门的游客滑道滑至长城脚下。
Outside Badaling, Mutianyu and a handful of other heavily visited sections, there is the “wild wall,” and it is in these areas — the vast majority of the Ming-era wall — that the structure is vanishing.
除了八达岭、慕田峪及游客较多的几段长城，剩下的就是“野长城”。正是这些区域——明长城的绝大部分——的墙体正在消失。
The Beijing Times reported that the main causes were erosion from wind and rain, the plundering of bricks by nearby villagers to use in construction and the scrambling over parts of the wild wall by more adventurous tourists.
《京华时报》的文章称，长城墙体消失的主要原因在于风雨侵蚀、邻近村民偷盗砖石盖房的行为，以及野长城旅游热的现象。
Some of the bricks taken by villagers have Chinese words carved into them. Scholars judge those bricks to be invaluable historical relics, yet the same bricks can be found sold in village markets near the Great Wall for about 40 to 50 renminbi, or about $7 to $8 — and that can be bargained down to 30 renminbi, according to The Beijing Times.
村民们盗走的一些砖石上刻有汉字。据《京华时报》报道，学者认为这些文字砖是非常宝贵的历史文物，但可以在长城附近村庄的市场上找到，售价为四五十元人民币，还可以砍到三十元。
In 2006, China established regulations for the protection of the Great Wall. But The Beijing Times said that with little in the way of resources devoted to preservation, and given the fact that the Ming-era wall runs through some impoverished counties, the regulations amount to “a mere scrap of paper.”
2006年，中国颁布实施《长城保护条例》。但《京华时报》表示，由于缺乏保护资源，而且明长城沿线县区经济相对贫困，这些条例相当于“一纸空文”。