Mexico’s decision to cancel a Chinese-led bid to build a high-speed rail system has triggered reactions ranging from surprise to scorn in China, which has prided itself on the rapid expansion of its own rail network and on bringing that technology to other countries.
墨西哥取消了中国中标的高铁建设项目，这一决定在中国引发了从震惊到嘲讽的各种反应。在中国，国内铁路网的迅速扩展，以及该技术的对外推广让人们引以为傲。
The $3.7 billion rail project to build a 130-mile line connecting Mexico City and Querétaro in central Mexico was scrapped last week amid concerns about the bidding process. The sole bid was made by a consortium of the state-owned China Railway Construction Corporation and four Mexican construction companies, some with links to President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico.
出于对投标过程的担忧，这项价值37亿美元（约合227亿元人民币）的铁路建设项目于上周被取消，该项目原本计划建造一条长达130英里（约合209公里）的铁路，连接墨西哥城和位于墨西哥中部的克雷塔罗。国有企业中国铁路建设集团与四家墨西哥建设公司组成的联合体是唯一的竞标者，其中一些公司与墨西哥总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)有关联。
A prominent news website in Mexico has alleged that Mr. Peña Nieto’s home is registered to a company owned by one of the Mexican companies involved in the high-speed rail bid. The president’s office responded that Mr. Peña Nieto’s wife, the actress Angélica Rivera, signed the contract for the house on her own almost a year before he took office, The Associated Press reported.
墨西哥的一个知名新闻网站曾声称，培尼亚·涅托的住所登记在一家公司名下，该公司归一家参加高铁投标的墨西哥公司所有。美联社(The Associated Press)报道称，总统办公室回应称，培尼亚·涅托的妻子——演员安杰莉卡·里韦拉(Angélica Rivera)自己签署了房屋合同，而大约一年后，培尼亚·涅托才上台执政。
Mr. Peña Nieto is scheduled to visit China and Australia this week, a trip that could bring further attention to the embarrassing reversal of the rail deal. The Mexican authorities say they plan to reopen bidding to the project to give other companies a better opportunity to compete.
培尼亚·涅托将于本周访问中国和澳大利亚，此次中国之行可能会使这一令人尴尬的取消交易事件受到更多关注。墨西哥当局表示，他们计划重新招标，为其他公司提供一个更好的竞争机会。
China’s National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s leading economic planning body, called the move to nullify the bid unexpected, and it sought to distance China from any allegations of impropriety.
中国主要的经济计划机构中国国家发展和改革委员会称，他们对墨西哥取消投标结果的举动感到意外，该机构力图撇清中国与任何关于不当行为的指控的关系。
“According to our understanding, the Chinese side’s participation in the bidding process has always complied with the Mexican government’s bidding requirements,” the commission said in a statement posted to its website. “Additionally we understand that the cancellation of the bid is due to domestic factors in Mexico, and is unrelated to the Chinese side.”
“据了解，中方企业在参与该项目招标过程中，始终遵守墨政府公开招标程序和要求，”该委员会发表声明称。“另据了解，取消招标结果是由于墨国内因素，与中方企业无关。”