BEIJING — China’s cabinet announced Wednesday that it would try to cut pollution from coal-fired power plants by 60 percent by 2020 through upgrades to plants, according to a report by Xinhua, the state news agency. If successful, the plan for upgrades would reduce carbon dioxide emissions from such plants by 180 million metric tons, the report said.
北京——据国家通讯社新华社报道，中国国务院周三宣布，将试图通过升级与改造等措施，在2020年将燃煤电厂的污染减少60％。如果这个计划成功的话，报道称，它将使这些电厂的二氧化碳排放量减少1.8亿吨。
The announcement formalizes a step China is taking to try to reach broader coal-use and emissions goals to decrease some of the world’s worst levels of air pollutants and to help in limiting climate change. China is by far the world’s largest coal consumer and emitter of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
中国正在努力实现更广泛的减少煤炭使用和污染排放的目标，以降低世界上一些最严重的空气污染水平，同时减少对气候变化的影响，国务院的宣布是这种努力迈出的正式一步。中国是目前世界上最大的煤炭消费国和二氧化碳等温室气体排放国。
Earlier this week, President Xi Jinping of China attended the start of the Paris climate talks to reiterate China’s commitment to helping in the global struggle to limit the effects of climate change. During those same days, levels of air pollution across northern China reached their peaks for the year so far. In parts of Beijing, levels of deadly, fine particulate matter called PM 2.5 were 40 times as high as the recommended daily exposure limit set by the World Health Organization.
本周早些时候，中国国家主席习近平出席了巴黎气候谈判的开幕式，他重申了中国将为限制气候变化影响的全球努力作贡献的承诺。也是在那几天里，中国北方的空气污染水平达到了今年到目前为止的最高值。在北京的部分地区，空气中被称为PM2.5的致命细颗粒物的水平超过了世界卫生组织建议的每日最高接触值的40多倍。
The cabinet, the State Council, said Wednesday that the upgrades to coal-fired power plants would mean a reduction in raw coal use of around 100 million metric tons. That is consistent with an earlier policy plan announced by the government that said new coal-fired power generating units would consume about 300 grams of coal per kilowatt-hour on average. The power industry accounts for about half of China’s annual coal use.
国务院周三表示，燃煤电厂机组改造升级后，每年可节约原煤约1亿吨。这与政府早些时候宣布的一项政策相符，该政策称新的燃煤发电机组每千瓦小时的发电量平均消耗约300克煤。电力行业占了中国每年煤炭使用量的一半左右。
Newer power plants in China emit less pollution and carbon dioxide than older ones. Plants in the power industry are less polluting on average than those that produce heavy commodities like steel and cement, as well as heating boilers for wintertime warmth in north China.
在中国，较新的发电厂比老发电厂的污染更少，排放的二氧化碳量也更低。平均来说，电力行业的工厂比其他行业工厂的污染要少，比如制造钢铁和水泥等大宗商品的工厂，以及中国北方采暖用的锅炉。
China has a glut of coal-fired power plants, as indicated by a recent drop in hours that plants operate. This year, officials granted permits to build 155 plants across the country, which would contribute to the glut and reduce market share in the sale of electricity to the grid by renewable energy sources.
中国的燃煤电厂已经产能过剩，表现为这些发电厂的平均利用小时近来在下降。仅今年一年，官员就批准了在全国各地建设155个燃煤电厂的许可证，这将让产能过剩变得更严重，也将降低可再生能源向电网出售电力的市场份额。
The slowing economy means there will be a lower growth rate in the demand for power, and overall coal consumption will probably not increase, despite the addition of new coal-fired plants, according to environmental researchers.
中国经济增长放缓意味着电力需求增长速度降低，环境研究人员表示，尽管增加了新燃煤发电厂，但整体的煤炭消费量可能不会增加。
In November 2014, Mr. Xi announced that China would try to reach a carbon emissions peak by around 2030, and China has said it is setting a cap on coal use in 2020 of 4.8 billion tons. China’s coal consumption was flat in 2014 compared with 2013 when measured by energy generation, and some scientists say China may already be reaching its peak in coal use.
习近平曾在2014年11月宣布，中国将试图在2030年前后让二氧化碳排放量达到峰值，中国也表示计划到2020年，把煤炭消费总量控制在42亿吨左右。如果用发电量衡量的话，中国2014年的煤炭消费总量与2013年的持平，有些科学家说，中国的煤炭使用可能已经达到了峰值。