HONG KONG — Move over, Janet Yellen and Ben Bernanke. Step aside, Mario Draghi and Haruhiko Kuroda. Compared with Zhou Xiaochuan, the longtime governor of the People’s Bank of China, they are all lightweights when it comes to monetary stimulus.
香港——珍妮特·耶伦(Janet Yellen)、本·伯南克(Ben Bernanke)：请让位。马里奥· 德拉吉(Mario Draghi)、黑田东彦(Haruhiko Kuroda)：请靠边。在货币刺激方面，他们与中国人民银行多年的行长周小川相比，都是轻量级人物。
The latest data released by China on Wednesday shows that the country’s rapid growth in money supply has continued. Mr. Zhou and his colleagues have only begun the difficult and dangerous task of reining it in — a task that still lies ahead of the United States Federal Reserve as it begins its own gradual taper this year.
中国周三发布的最新数据显示，国内的货币供应依然在快速增长。周小川及其同事才刚刚开始一项控制货币供应增长的既艰难又危险的任务，同样的任务也摆在美国联邦储备委员会面前，美联储今年开始了其逐渐减少刺激的行动。
China’s money supply, broadly measured, has now tripled the money sloshing around its economy since the end of 2006. That dwarfs the indirect effects of quantitative easing in the United States, where the broadly measured money supply rose only 55 percent from 2006 through the end of November.
中国的广义货币供应如今已让其经济中运转的钱数增长为2006年底的3倍。这使美国量化宽松政策的间接效果相形见绌，美国的广义货币供应量从2006年到去年11月底只增加了55%。
China’s tidal wave of money has driven asset prices through the roof. Housing prices have soared, feeding fears of a bubble while leaving almost everyone else feeling poor.
中国的资金浪潮已经导致资产价格飞涨。房价的持续飙升，加深了一些人对出现泡沫的恐惧，也让几乎所有的其他人都感到拮据。
The rapidly expanding money supply also reflects a flood of loans from the banking system and the so-called shadow banking system that have kept afloat many inefficient state-owned enterprises and bankrolled the construction of huge overcapacity in the manufacturing sector.
快速扩张的货币供应也反映在银行系统和所谓的影子银行系统发放的大量贷款上，这些贷款让很多低效率的国有企业能够维持下去，也为在制造业中建造巨大的产能过剩提供了资金。
Cao Maolan, a real estate broker in Nanjing in east-central China, helped a young woman buy her first apartment seven years ago, a 650-square-foot unit for which she paid the equivalent of $60,000. The young woman sold the apartment in less than two years for a 50 percent profit, Ms. Cao said, and has traded up to a bigger apartment every year since then, now living in a 2,150-square-foot apartment for which she paid $985,000, mostly in cash with the profits from previous deals.
南京市一名房地产经纪人曹茂兰（音译）7年前曾帮一位年轻女子购置了她的第一套房，她为那套约60平方米的公寓付的价钱相当于6万美元（按当时汇率约合46万元人民币）。曹女士说，那位女子不到两年后把那套房卖了，卖价高出买价50%，从那以后，该女子每年都用卖旧房买新房的方法增加住房面积，现在她住的公寓约200平方米，她为其支付了相当于98.5万美元的价钱，几乎全部用现金，都是她以前几次交易中赚来的。
“Everyone who bought property has done really well,” Ms. Cao said.
曹女士说，“每个买了房子的人都赚了不少钱。”
But young college graduates, whose numbers have quintupled in the past decade as China’s universities expand rapidly, worry that they may never be able to afford to buy a new home.
然而，年轻的大学毕业生们担心他们可能永远也买不起新房，由于中国大学大量扩招，如今的毕业生人数是十年前的5倍。
Zheng Yilong, a 22-year-old college graduate in Wuhan, an industrial hub of 10 million people in central China, earns $575 a month in a low-level banking job with limited opportunities for raises. But he has found that even a 540-square-foot apartment on the outer edge of the metropolitan area, with a long commute, costs $98,400, or 14 years’ pay.
今年22岁的郑一龙（音译）是一位大学毕业生，住在中国中部一座有1000万人口的工业城市武汉，他在一家银行有一个低级别的工作，每月工资为575美元，涨薪机会不多。但他发现，就连该市远郊区的一套50平方米的房子，价格也高达98400美元，相当于他14年的工资，而且住在那里上下班坐车要花很长的时间。
“I cannot even begin to imagine how I can earn and save enough to buy even a small unit here in Wuhan, so I don’t think about it — there is no solution,” he said in a telephone interview Wednesday.
他周三在电话采访中说，“我简直不能想象我怎样才能赚到足够的钱，有足够的存款，在武汉买哪怕是一套小房子，所以我也不想它——没有办法。”
The money supply and credit data released Wednesday morning show that the central bank has begun to tackle the problem, but slowly. The broad measure of money supply, known as M2, grew 13.6 percent last year, barely less than its increase of 13.8 percent a year earlier, the Chinese central bank said in a news release.
周三上午发布的货币供应和信贷数据显示，央行已经开始着手解决这一问题，但速度比较慢。中国央行在新闻发布会上说，表示广义货币的M2与去年同期相比增长13.6%，比上年末13.8%的增长率没低多少。
This means the money supply is still charging well ahead of inflation-adjusted economic growth, which has been about 7.6 percent; the exact figure for the fourth quarter of last year is scheduled for release on Monday.
这说明货币供应增长率仍大大超过按通胀调整后的经济增长率，后者约为7.6%；去年第四季度的增长率将在下周一公布。
Growth in M2 almost reached 30 percent at the end of 2009, when China was using monetary policy to offset the effects of the global financial crisis. China has reduced the pace of money supply growth since then, but kept it well above the pace of economic growth throughout, which means it has done little to sop up the extra cash issued during the crisis.
2009年底，M2的增长率几乎达到30%，当时中国正在用货币政策来抵消全球金融危机的影响。从那以后，中国减慢了货币供应的增长速度，但一直仍将其保持在高于经济增长速度的水平，这说明中国在吸收金融危机时期发行的多余现金方面没有多少作为。
The question now is whether the central bank can further slow the growth of credit and the money supply without causing a slump in housing prices or a sharp slowdown in the credit-dependent corporate sector. Even the very modest slowdown in money supply growth so far has already contributed to two sharp but short-lived increases in interbank interest rates in June and December, which roiled markets in China and around the world.
现在的问题是，央行是否能进一步降低信贷和货币供应的增长速度，而不引起房价大幅下跌，或导致依赖信贷的企业生产大幅放缓。就连货币供应增长率非常微小的放缓也已经在去年6月和12月两次导致银行间拆借利率出现短暂的突然增加，引起了中国和世界市场的动荡。
Corporate lending rates are already approaching 10 percent a year, the highest in any of the world’s largest economies. Many businesses are struggling for more loans to repay previous borrowing.
企业借贷率已经达到每年10%，这在世界上所有的大经济体中最高。很多企业正竭力获得更多贷款来偿还以前的债务。
China’s central bank “is in a very difficult situation; it needs to tighten but the whole system is not used to tightening, they are used to money printing,” said Shen Jianguang, a China monetary economist in the Hong Kong office of Mizuho Securities, a Japanese investment bank.
日本投行瑞穗银行(Mizuho Securities)驻香港办公室的中国货币经济学家沈建光说，中国央行“现在处境很困难；它需要收紧，但是整个系统不习惯于收紧，他们已经习惯于印发钞票”。
M2 encompasses money in circulation, checking accounts, savings accounts and certificates of deposit. It is the main money supply indicator watched by the People’s Bank of China in trying to balance the need for economic growth with the dangers of inflation.
M2包括流通中的现金、支票账户存款、活期存款以及定期存款。这是中国人民银行为平衡经济增长需要与通货膨胀的危险而关注的主要货币供应指标。
M2 has grown so fast in China not just because the central bank has been issuing a lot of renminbi but also because the state-owned banking system has lent and relent those renminbi with encouragement from the government, creating a multiplier effect.
M2在中国如此快速增长不仅仅是因为央行一直在大量印发人民币，还因为国有银行系统在政府的鼓励下，将这些人民币以借贷和再次借贷的方式发放出去，产生一种货币乘数效应。
China has also undergone financial liberalization in the past five years that has accelerated the pace of lending. An extensive and loosely regulated “shadow banking” system has emerged, partly because of the willingness of regulators to allow banks to classify loans to new financing companies not as corporate loans but as interbank loans, for which little capital needs to be reserved.
过去五年中，中国也经历了金融自由化，导致放贷速度加快。还涌现出了一个大范围的、监管松懈的“影子银行”系统，这部分是因为监管者愿意允许银行把借给新融资公司的贷款分类为银行间贷款而非企业贷款，而银行间贷款几乎没有用作准备金的资本需求。
The Federal Reserve has actually stepped up much more rapidly than China its injections of money into the financial system. But the broadly measured money supply has increased more slowly in the United States than in China because American banks have been much slower to lend and relend the extra money.
实际上，美联储一直在以比中国更快的速度向金融系统注入现金。但是广义货币供应的增长在美国却比在中国慢得多，因为美国银行把多余现金借贷和再次借贷出去的速度要慢得多。
Broadly measured money supply plays an important role in the pace of economic growth as well as inflation. Consumer inflation has not yet become a big problem: Falling commodity prices and widespread manufacturing overcapacity held down consumer inflation to 2.6 percent last year in China.
广义货币供应对经济增长以及通货膨胀的速度起着重要作用。消费者价格膨胀还没有成为一个大问题：大宗商品价格下跌以及制造业大范围的产能过剩，把中国去年的消费者价格膨胀率抑制在2.6%。
But asset price inflation, notably the country’s soaring real estate prices and corresponding decline in housing affordability, has been a constant worry for the authorities.
但是资产价格的膨胀，尤其是中国不断飙升的房地产价格以及相应的房价承受力的下降，却一直困扰着政府。
To be sure, one reason M2 in China is so much larger than in the United States is that the United States relies heavily on bond markets to finance economic growth, and bonds are not included in M2. China relies much more on bank lending, which is indirectly reflected in M2.
诚然，中国的M2比美国的高出很多的一个原因是，美国更多地依赖债券市场来为经济增长融资，而债券不包括在M2内。中国则更依赖于间接反映在M2中的银行贷款。
But that difference in financial system structure does not explain why China’s M2 money supply has soared so much faster in percentage terms since 2006 compared with the money supply in the United States.
但是金融系统结构上的这种不同，并不能解释为什么自2006年以来，中国的M2货币供应与美国的相比，增长率比美国高得多。