When Zhang Xuyan accepted his cushy entry-level position at a major state-owned enterprise, the salary was not the main draw. Instead it was the unofficial benefits that lured him in: networking opportunities, close proximity to senior Communist Party members and, last but not least, the banquets and luxury gifts that the company regularly showered on its employees.
张旭彦（音译）接受一家大国企轻松的初级职位时，最吸引他的并不是薪资。吸引他的是非正式的福利：搭建关系网的机会、与共产党高级成员的近距离接触以及同样重要的一点，公司定期让员工享受的盛宴和高档礼物。
“Last year, my company gave me a free iPhone, as well as some other electronic appliances,” said Mr. Zhang, 25, estimating the value of the gifts he received in 2012 at roughly 7,000 renminbi, or $1,100. “My actual salary is quite low, but when you add on the benefits, I was able to live a pretty good life.”
“去年，我们公司免费发了一部iPhone给我，还有其他一些电器，”25岁的张旭彦说。他估计，自己2012年收到的礼物大约价值7000元人民币，相当于1100美元。“我的实际工资很低，但加上这些福利，我还是能过得相当不错。”
These privileges and perks — which for Mr. Zhang also included a grocery discount card and a small housing stipend — have come under attack since President Xi Jinping took power. Under Mr. Xi’s “Four Winds” campaign — combat formalism, bureaucracy, hedonism and extravagance within the Communist Party — many state-owned enterprises and government agencies have reduced these benefits or eliminated them altogether.
然而，自从国家主席习近平上台之后，这些特权和特殊待遇——以张旭彦的情况而言，其中还包括一张百货店的打折卡和一小笔住房补贴——受到了影响。由于习近平发起的反“四风”运动，即消除党内形式主义、官僚主义、享乐主义和奢靡之风的运动，许多国企和政府机构都削减甚至彻底取消了这样的福利。
The crackdown has prompted luxury goods sales to plummet this year, particularly for brands that have traditionally been favored by Communist Party leaders. Moutai, for example, the preferred brand of liquor for official banquets, is facing its slowest year of growth since 2001.
这一运动导致奢侈品销售额在今年急剧下降，尤其是那些传统上备受党内领导人青睐的品牌。比如，官方宴会首选的白酒品牌茅台今年的增长速度掉到了2001年以来的最低点。
Few benefits have been cut more abruptly than the annual year-end party, when bosses traditionally hand out prizes to model workers and reward employees for their service. In the more than three decades since China began its economic liberalization, the year-end party has evolved into an extravagant affair, often staged at a five-star hotel and costing companies millions of renminbi.
年会受到的影响几乎比其他所有福利都大。举办年会的时候，企业老板历来会为模范员工发放奖品，回报雇员的服务。在中国启动经济自由化之后的三十多年里，年会已经发展成了一个奢侈浪费的场合。它们通常会在五星级酒店举行，让企业花费数百万人民币。
Under Mr. Xi, large state-owned enterprises and government agencies have scaled back their year-end parties or canceled them outright. The state broadcaster, China Central Television, canceled its year-end banquet in 2012 just months after Mr. Xi became Communist Party chief. It is not planning a year-end party this year.
在习近平的领导下，大型国企和政府机构已经缩小了年会的规模，甚或彻底取消了年会。2012年，习近平刚刚出任党总书记几个月的时候，国家电视台央视便取消了自己的年会盛宴。今年，央视也不打算举办年会。
“When I first joined CCTV, they used to raffle computers and iPads at the year-end party — everyone would leave with something,” said a CCTV employee who asked not to be identified for fear of repercussions. “Since the new administration took power, all of this has been canceled.”
一名央视雇员说，“刚加入央视的时候，他们总是在年会抽奖活动当中发放电脑和iPad，每个人都不会空手离开。新一届政府上台以来，所有这些都被取消了。”因为担心招致不利后果，这名雇员要求匿名。
“They used to give us free soap and detergent, a small but nice advantage of working here,” the employee went on. “But even that stopped this year.”
这名雇员继续说，“以前他们还给大家发放免费肥皂和清洁剂，这是在这儿工作的一个好处，虽说小，但感觉不错。可是今年，连这种好处都没了。”
The Beijing News ran an article on Wednesday surveying four private firms that specialize in year-end party planning — booking venues, vetting performers and organizing prizes and rewards. A representative from one of the companies said that business was down more than 50 percent compared with previous years.
《北京日报》在周三发表了一篇文章，文章调查了四家专事年会策划的私营公司，策划内容包括预定场地、筛选演艺人员、设置奖项和奖品。其中一家公司的代表说，和前些年相比，他们的业务已经下降了50%以上。
The article also quoted a representative from the Regent Beijing hotel saying that, normally by this time of year, most banquet slots would have already been filled by major state-owned companies and banks. “This year, half of our slots are still open, and most of the bookings so far are for weddings or private company events,” the representative said.
文章还引用北京丽晶酒店一名代表的话说，每年的这个时候，大多数宴会场地通常已经被主要的国有企业和银行订满。这名代表说，“今年，我们有半数场地还是空的，到目前为止，订出去的场地大多是用来举办婚宴，或者是私营公司的活动。”
The decreased demand has led many five-star hotels to lower their banquet prices, even as the rest of the Chinese commercial economy faces inflation. An unidentified employee at a five-star hotel in the Beijing district of Chaoyang said that his hotel was offering unprecedented deals to attract more business: “Last year we charged 650 renminbi per person, in addition to a 15 percent service charge. This year we are charging 588 renminbi with the same service charge.”
需求的下降已导致许多五星级酒店调低宴会价格，尽管中国商业经济的其余领域正面临通胀。北京朝阳区某五星级酒店一名未具名的雇员说，为了招揽更多生意，他所在的酒店正在提供前所未有的优惠价格：“去年，我们的收费是每人650元人民币，还要加上15%的服务费。今年每人只收588元人民币，服务费照旧。”
An unnamed executive at a state-owned enterprise told reporters: “Last year we gave our employees iPads and iPhones. This year we will give them towels and toothpaste.”
一个未具名的国企高管对记者说：“去年，我们给员工发iPad和iPhone。今年，我们会给他们发毛巾和牙膏。”