HONG KONG — Chinese regulators on Wednesday intensified their antitrust scrutiny of multinationals, finding 12 Japanese auto parts and bearings manufacturers guilty of fixing prices charged to the Chinese factories of at least five automakers, and imposing fines totaling roughly $200 million.
香港——中国监管机构周三加大了针对跨国企业的反垄断执法力度，裁定12家日本汽车零部件和轴承生产商存在价格垄断行为——协商设定了售往至少五家整车生产商在华工厂的产品价格——并开出了约12亿元人民币的罚单。
The fines, a record for China, are also notable for being levied exclusively against Japanese companies.
这次的罚款金额创下了中国反垄断案件的最高纪录，而同样引人注目的是，受罚的都是日企。
The scale of the fines, and the decision to impose them entirely on foreign companies, underline the Chinese government’s eagerness this summer to pursue antitrust cases, often with an emphasis on challenging multinationals. Many global companies have reaped substantial profits in China and captured market shares that are the envy of local competitors, although the multinationals have also transferred considerable technology and skills, and created millions of jobs, sometimes accompanied by large-scale layoffs back home.
这次罚款的规模，以及仅针对外企的决定，突显出中国政府今夏开展反垄断调查的急切心情，而这些调查的重点通常是外企。许多跨国企业在中国收获了可观的利润，获得了令国内企业艳羡的市场份额，不过，它们也转让了大量的技术和技能，创造了数百万个就业岗位。这有时意味着，要在本国大规模裁员。
The case, of eight Japanese auto parts makers and four bearings manufacturers, is focused on factories that are joint ventures. One of the auto parts manufacturers, Hitachi Automotive Systems, and one of the bearings manufacturers, the Nachi-Fujikoshi Corporation, were found guilty but were exempted from fines. The regulatory agency, the National Development and Reform Commission, said those two companies had reported monopolistic agreements to the authorities and provided evidence.
上述案件的焦点是合资厂，涉及八家日本汽车零部件生产商和四家轴承生产商。其中，零部件企业日立汽车系统(Hitachi Automotive Systems)和轴承企业不二越(Nachi-Fujikoshi Corporation)虽被发现有不当行为，但免除了罚款。监管机构国家发展与改革委员会称，这两家公司主动报告了达成垄断协议的行为，并提供了证据。
The commission, China’s top economic policy agency, clearly signaled in a news release announcing the fines that it was engaged in further antitrust cases.
国家发改委是中国最高经济决策机构。该机构在宣布上述罚款决定的新闻稿中明确表示，正在展开更多的反垄断调查。
“The National Development and Reform Commission will pursue clues of other illegality that were found during this investigation, as it continues to carry out investigations to ensure fair enforcement, maintain fair competition in the market, protect the legitimate rights and interests of operators and consumers and create a favorable environment for economic and social development,” the release said.
“国家发展改革委将对本次调查过程中发现的其他违法线索继续深入开展调查，确保公平执法，维护公平的市场竞争秩序，保护经营者和消费者合法权益，为经济社会发展创造良好环境，”新闻稿中写道。
A few of the Japanese companies began stepping forward on Tuesday to acknowledge that they had been fined. The Japan Auto Parts Industries Association declined to comment.
周二，几家日本企业主动证实了遭受罚款一事。日本汽车零部件工业协会(Japan Auto Parts Industries Association)则拒绝置评。
The National Development and Reform Commission and provincial agencies are separately investigating numerous foreign automakers. They are trying to determine whether they colluded with dealers to compel customers to buy expensive replacement parts from the automakers’ own factories, instead of allowing customers to choose replacement parts from independent parts manufacturers.
国家发改委和一些省级机构在对大量外资车企展开彼此独立的调查。他们正设法弄清楚，这些企业是否与经销商合谋，迫使消费者从车企自己的工厂购买昂贵的零部件，而无法从独立的零部件生产商那里购买。
Investigators from the commission on Aug. 4 searched the Shanghai offices of Daimler, the German manufacturer of Mercedes-Benz and Smart cars, a day after the company said it was cutting prices for replacement parts by an average of 15 percent “in response to antimonopoly investigations into the automobile industry.” General Motors said last week that it was cooperating with requests for information from the commission.
国家发改委的调查人员8月4日搜查了戴姆勒(Daimler)的上海办公室。这家德国公司是梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)和Smart车的生产商。此前一天，戴姆勒宣布，“为配合针对汽车行业的反垄断调查”，该公司生产的维修配件在中国的销售价格将平均下降15%。通用汽车(General Motors)上周表示，正在配合发改委的调查，提供后者所需的信息。
Another Chinese government agency, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, is also conducting antitrust investigations, most notably sending agents this summer to raid the offices of Microsoft, interrogate senior managers and copy internal records.
另一家中国政府机构——国家工商总局——也在进行反垄断调查，最引人关注的例子是，今年夏天，该机构的工作人员突访了微软在多地的办公室，对公司高管进行了质询，并复印了内部文件。
Although multinationals have borne the brunt of investigations this summer, Chinese companies have sometimes been fined. Two state-controlled alcoholic beverage companies, Kweichow Moutai and Wuliangye, were fined in February 2013 when provincial regulators found them guilty of requiring retailers to charge a minimum price for their premium liquors. Kweichow Moutai was fined $40 million and Wuliangye $33 million.
虽然跨国企业在今年夏季的调查中首当其冲，但中国公司有时也会遭到处罚。2013年2月，两家国有酒类企业——贵州茅台和五粮液——被处以罚款，理由是省级监管机构认定它们为零售商设定其高档酒的最低售价。贵州茅台被罚2.47亿元人民币，五粮液则被罚2.02亿元人民币。
The antitrust crackdown this summer has coincided with a sharp slowdown in foreign direct investment in China, which fell 17 percent in July compared with a year earlier. For the first seven months of this year, however, foreign direct investment in China is down only 0.4 percent.
今年夏季的反垄断严打行动，正好与外商对华直接投资大幅放缓同步。7月的投资规模同比下降了17%。不过，今年头七个月合计的话，外商对华直接投资仅下降了0.4%。
Shen Danyang, the Chinese Commerce Ministry spokesman, said on Monday that foreign direct investment fluctuated considerably from month to month, and that the July figure should not be construed to mean that antitrust cases were hurting foreign interest in China.
周一，中国商务部发言人沈丹阳表示，外商直接投资在一些月份中会出现波动，7月的数据不能说明反垄断案件影响了外商对华投资的兴趣。
The Japanese auto parts and bearing manufacturers were accused on Wednesday of fixing prices for components used in the manufacture of more than 20 car models built by Ford, Honda, Nissan, Suzuki, Toyota and other unspecified automakers.
周三的指控称，日本汽车零部件及轴承生产商存在价格垄断行为，经价格协商的零部件用于福特(Ford)、本田(Honda)、日产(Nissan)、铃木(Suzuki)、丰田(Toyota)，以及其他一些未具名的车企生产的超过20款车型。
The seven auto parts makers that were assessed fines, totaling about $135 million, were the Aisan Industry Company, the Denso Corporation, the Furukawa Electric Company, the Mitsuba Corporation, the Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Sumitomo Electric Industries and the Yazaki Corporation. Fines totaling almost $66 million were imposed on three bearings manufacturers: Jtekt Corporation, NSK and the NTN Corporation.
七家汽车零部件生产商被处以总额近8.32亿元人民币的罚款。这七家公司包括爱三(Aisan Industry Company)、电装(Denso Corporation)、古河(Furukawa Electric Company)、三叶(Mitsuba Corporation)、三菱电机(Mitsubishi Electric Corporation)、住友(Sumitomo Electric Industries)和矢崎(Yazaki Corporation)。捷太格特(Jtekt Corporation)、精工(NSK)及恩梯恩(NTN)这三家轴承生产商的罚款总额约为4.03亿元。
The National Development and Reform Commission said the parts makers had repeatedly colluded to fix prices for components like alternators and harnesses from 2000 to 2010, while the bearing manufacturers fixed prices from 2000 to 2011.
国家发改委称，从2000年至2010年，这些零部件生产商多次串谋为交流发电机和线束等零部件协商定价，轴承生产企业则是在2000年至2011年期间存在价格垄断行为。