BEIJING — China has scrapped its export quotas for rare earths, minerals used in mobile phones and other high-tech products, after losing a World Trade Organization case brought by Washington and other trading partners over controls that alarmed global technology producers.
北京——中国已经宣布不再对稀土——用于生产手机等高科技产品的矿物——实行出口配额制。此前，华盛顿等贸易伙伴曾以中国对稀土出口实行管制为由，向世界贸易组织（World Trade Organization，简称WTO）提起诉讼，中国输掉了官司。相关管制曾一度让全球的高科技产品生产商忧心忡忡。
The change was included in the Ministry of Commerce’s trade guidelines for 2015, but there was no separate announcement. Under the new guidelines, rare earths will require an export license but the amount that can be sold abroad will no longer be covered by a quota.
这一政策调整在商务部(Ministry of Commerce)2015年贸易管理指引中得到了体现，政府并未就此单独发表声明。根据新发布的管理指引，稀土出口将执行出口许可证管理，出口数量不再受配额限制。
China’s limits, imposed in 2009, prompted concern about supplies for global technology producers. They led to efforts to reopen or develop new mines in the United States and elsewhere, and by Japan and some other countries to recycle rare earths.
中国从2009年开始实施稀土出口配额限制，外界曾担心这会让全球高科技产品生产商面临原料供应吃紧的问题。受此影响，美国以及其他一些地方重开旧矿、开发新矿，日本等国家则尝试进行稀土资源的循环利用。
China has about 30 percent of global deposits of rare earths but accounts for more than 90 percent of production. It imposed export limits while it tried to build up domestic manufacturers to capture more of the profits that go to Western and Japanese producers of mobile phone batteries and other products.
中国的稀土储量只占全球储量的30%，但其产量却占全球产量的90%以上。此前，它一面实施出口配额制，一面极力扶持国内的高科技产品生产商，帮助它们获取更多的利润。一直以来，大部分利润都被西方和日本的手机电池等产品的生产商拿走了。
Beijing cited the need to conserve a dwindling resource and limit environmental damage from mining but imposed no restrictions on the production and use of rare earths by companies within China.
北京方面曾宣称，必须保护日渐稀少的资源，减少稀土开采对环境的负面影响，但却没就中国境内公司对稀土的生产和使用做出任何限制。
Chinese officials have expressed hope that foreign manufacturers that use rare earths will shift production to China and give technology to local partners.
中国官员已经明确表示，希望以稀土为原料的外国厂商把生产线转移到中国，并把技术传授给中方合作者。
The United States challenged the quotas in 2012 in a W.T.O. complaint and later was joined by the European Union, Japan and other governments. They said China had violated its free-trade commitments by limiting access to raw materials.
2012年，美国就中国的稀土出口限制向WTO提出申述，随后，欧盟、日本以及其他一些国家也加入了进来。它们的说法是，中国限制了原材料的出口，违反了它的自由贸易承诺。
Rare earths are 17 minerals used to make goods including hybrid cars, weapons, flat-screen TVs, mobile phones, mercury-vapor lights and camera lenses.
稀土是用于生产混合动力汽车、武器、平板电视、手机、汞蒸汽灯以及照相机镜头等产品的17种矿物的统称。