The demolition of old structures to clear way for urban development in China has some well-known consequences, notably the violence associated with forcibly removing people from their homes. But in recent years, the country has been increasingly faced with another unwelcome byproduct of the drive to tear down and rebuild: mountains of construction debris.
在中国，为了给城市发展扫清道路而拆除旧建筑的行动，产生了一些众所周知的后果，其中最受关注的是与逼迫民众搬迁相关的暴力事件。不过近些年来，中国日渐面临着拆迁重建运动引发的另一个糟糕的附带后果，那就是堆积如山的建筑垃圾。
While the problem is often concealed, with hundreds of millions of tons of waste quietly dumped on the outskirts of China’s major cities each year, the rate of growth has made it increasingly inescapable. Now, hardly a week goes by without residents of some suburban enclave or village near a major metropolis waking to discover an illegal waste dump rising near their homes.
每年，有数亿吨垃圾会被悄悄地倾倒在中国大城市的郊区，这个问题常常会被掩盖，然而垃圾的增速已经让它越来越无法回避。现在，几乎每周都会有家住在大城市附近的郊区或乡村的居民，一觉醒来后在自家附近发现一座非法的垃圾堆冒了出来。
In January, construction waste was dumped on imperial tombs from the Ming Dynasty in the city of Xi’an. The debris caused a wall around the tomb site to collapse and half-buried a 600-year old statue of an official. In the Chaoyang district of Beijing, residents complained after a construction waste heap grew to a height of more than eight stories, raining dust on the neighborhood on windy days. A few miles away, debris from the construction of a new subway line was piled along a riverbank. The waste material climbed to more than five stories, raising fears that in case of heavy rains it would block the drainage of flood waters.
今年1月，建筑垃圾被倾倒在了西安市的明代皇陵附近。这些垃圾形成了一道围绕陵墓的垃圾“墙”，导致一座有600年历史的官员雕像倒塌，被半埋入垃圾中。在北京的朝阳区，一堆建筑垃圾堆到了超过八层楼的高度，每逢刮风都会让附近扬起沙尘，居民们对此怨声载道。在几英里以外，新地铁线路施工留下的垃圾沿着河岸堆放。这些废物堆积的高度超过了五层楼，这使一些人开始担忧，一旦下大雨，垃圾就会堵塞泄洪系统。
Along Beijing’s 5th ring road, a half ton of debris is piled along each kilometer on average, much of it construction waste, the Beijing Evening News reported in August. Chinese social media are filled with pictures of rubble dumped on roadsides and underneath bridges. Liu Xiaoming, a 58-year-old retiree, uses his Sina Weibo microblog account to highlight incidents of dumping around his town of Jiaxing in Zhejiang Province.
《北京晚报》今年8月报道，在北京五环路沿线，平均每隔一公里，就堆放着半吨垃圾，其中大部分是建筑垃圾。中国的社交媒体上充斥着建筑废料被倾倒在路边和桥下的照片。58岁的退休人员刘小明用他的新浪微博账号上展示了他所在的镇上随处可见的倾倒事件，该镇位于浙江省嘉兴市。
“This sort of deliberate dumping and destruction of the environment makes me extremely furious,” he wrote in July in a post with a photo that showed piles of debris a short distance from a sign that read “No Dumping.”China’s economic growth has seen increases in all sorts of waste, as consumers buy, and throw away, much more than ever before. But while Chinese cities have extensive recycling networks, with rag-pickers pedaling three-wheeled bicycles to buy and sell all sorts of plastic, metal and paper waste, construction debris is almost completely discarded.
“老刘我对这种故意倾倒垃圾破坏环境的行为非常气愤！”他在7月的一条微博中写道，还附有一幅照片，显示在距“严禁倾倒垃圾”的指示牌几步之遥的地方，就有成堆的垃圾。随着消费者不断地买了又扔，中国经济增长的同时，各类垃圾的增长也超出了以往任何时候。不过，虽然中国城市拥有广泛的回收网络，蹬着三轮车收废品的人会买卖各种塑料、金属和纸质废品，然而建筑垃圾却几乎被彻底地丢弃了。
“Once all the construction and demolition waste is generated, there’s no measure to deal with it,” said Wilson W.S. Lu, an assistant professor of architecture at the University of Hong Kong. The chief objects recycled, Mr. Lu said, are metals, a small part of the overall total.
香港大学建筑学院助理教授吕伟生(Wilson W.S. Lu)说，“所有这些建筑和拆迁垃圾一旦产生，就没有办法再进行处理。”他说，得到回收物品主要是金属，但它们在所有建筑垃圾中只占一小部分。
“For the other parts, there’s no systematic way to deal with it,” he said, “therefore the illegal dumping is everywhere.”
“至于其他垃圾，还没有系统化的处理办法，”他说，“因此非法倾倒的现象随处可见。”
Mr. Lu is examining just how much construction waste China generates annually. While precise statistics are few, the available numbers suggest a mounting problem. Buildings in China are typically torn down after 30 years, compared to 75 years in the United States and even longer in Europe. A high proportion of new construction takes place on the sites of demolished structures, and the overall rate of building, measured by floor space, has been steadily increasing for the past several years. Extrapolating from data from Shanghai, which has released annual tallies of demolitions, Mr. Lu estimates that China produced more than two billion tons of construction waste in 2011. Whereas Japan recycles as much as 95 percent of its construction waste, in China the number is roughly reversed, with less than 5 percent reused, according to Mr. Lu.
吕伟生正在研究中国每年究竟会制造多少建筑垃圾。尽管缺少精确的统计数据，但可查到的数据表明，这个问题越来越严重。通常，中国建筑的寿命通常是30年，而美国是75年，欧洲甚至更长。大量新楼是建在被拆毁建筑的原址上的。以建筑面积为衡量标准，过去几年中国的总体建设速度一直稳步上升。上海会发布每年的拆迁数据，根据上海公布的数据推断，吕伟生估计中国2011年制造的建筑垃圾超过20亿吨。吕伟生称，日本的建筑垃圾回收比例高达95%，但在中国，相关数据几乎恰好相反，只有不到5%的建筑垃圾得到重复利用。
Efforts to keep that growing mass of debris under control through recycling are just getting started. China Advanced Construction Materials Group, a NASDAQ-listed company, has set up plants in the large interior cities of Guiyang and Lanzhou to grind up construction waste to reuse in concrete.
通过回收来控制日益增多的垃圾的努力才刚刚起步。在纳斯达克(Nasdaq)上市的中国企业新奥混凝土集团已在内陆大城市贵阳和兰州建厂，碾磨建筑垃圾，对水泥进行重复利用。
“This one thing seems small, but it’s very important,” said Wu Changhua, the greater China director for The Climate Group, an international environmental NGO that helped the company develop the recycling program. “Working with the company and the experts, we pretty much concluded that in the construction sector there should be no waste at all. That was very encouraging for us. And if that’s the case, we have to ask what are the barriers.”
“这件事情看似很小，但却非常重要，”帮助该公司筹划这个回收项目的跨国环保团体气候组织(The Climate Group)大中华区总裁吴昌华说，“和这家公司及相关专家一起，我们几乎断定，建筑行业应该一点垃圾都没有。这让我们倍受鼓舞。如果是这样，我们必须要问，阻碍是什么。”
The business model for this type of recycling is already well established, Ms. Wu said. And recycling building materials help China reach official goals of improving environmental protection because it eases pressure on landfills, reduces illegal dumping and reduces destructive practices used to obtain sand for concrete, like dredging river beds or quarrying mountainsides.
吴昌华说，这种回收利用的商业模式已经很成熟了。而且，回收建筑材料有助于中国实现加强环境保护的官方目标，因为它能减轻填埋场的压力，减少非法倾倒垃圾，以及为生产水泥而进行的破坏性采沙作业，比如采挖河床或开山采石。
But the use of recycled materials in homes and offices may still take some time to win widespread public acceptance because of concerns about substandard construction.
但因为担心建筑质量不合格，用回收材料修建住宅和办公楼的做法可能还需要一些时间才能被普遍接受。
Before recycled building materials can become popular, Chinese consumers must be convinced of their safety, Ms. Wu said. “In Chinese, when you call it ‘waste,’ it sounds like ‘garbage’,” she said. “It’s very negative. We need to change that perspective. That area will require a lot of effort.”
吴昌华说，要想让回收的建筑材料受欢迎，必须让中国消费者相信自己的安全有保障。“在中文里，说‘垃圾’听起来像是‘废品’，”她说，“有很强的负面涵义。我们必须改变这种看法。这方面需要做出很大努力。”