HONG KONG — China’s premier, Li Keqiang, delivered his government’s highest-profile warning yet to Myanmar over violence spilling across the border, when he used an annual news conference on Sunday to condemn the deaths of four Chinese farmers he said were killed by a bomb from a Myanmar warplane.
香港——周日，中国总理李克强利用召开年度记者招待会的机会，谴责了缅甸战机投掷炸弹致四名中国农民死亡的事件（据最新消息，死亡人数已升至五人——编注），这是到目前为止中国政府就中缅边境暴力冲突做出的最引人注目的警告。
At his news conference in Beijing marking the end of China’s annual legislative session, Mr. Li took up the deaths of the farmers, who were tending a sugar cane field in southwest China on Friday when, according to Chinese officials, the bomb from the plane struck them. The Chinese Foreign Ministry and a military commander have already condemned the cross-border incursion, and so did Mr. Li.
在中国每年一度的两会结束后召开的记者招待会上，李克强提到了这起事件，据中国官员透露，周五，这些农民在中国西南部的甘蔗田里耕作时，被飞机投掷的炸弹击中。中国外交部和一名军事指挥官，以及李克强总理都已经对这起跨境袭击事件进行了谴责。
“On our side of the Chinese-Myanmar border, some of our country’s residents have suffered loss of life and property,” he said, offering condolences to the dead farmers’ families.
李克强向遇难农民的家属表示慰问，并称，“在中缅边界我方一侧，一些我国居民的生命和财产受到了损失。”
“Our government, the Foreign Ministry and military, has made stern representations to the Myanmar side,” he added. “We have the responsibility and the capacity to firmly safeguard the security and stability of the Chinese-Myanmar frontier.”
“我国政府、外交部、军方都向缅方提出了严正交涉，”他还表示，“我们有责任也有能力坚决维护中缅边境的安全稳定。”
A senior Myanmar official in the presidential office, speaking on the condition of anonymity, denied that one of the country’s planes was responsible for the deaths, The Associated Press reported on Sunday. He suggested the deaths may have been the work of a group attempting to stir up trouble, but he also promised to cooperate with Beijing in dealing with the incident.
美联社(The Associated Press)在周日报道称，缅甸总统办公室的一名高级官员对该国飞机应为农民死亡事件负责的说法予以否认。他表示，此事或许是想挑起事端的一群人所为，但他还承诺会与北京方面进行合作，共同处理此事。
But Beijing appears to have no doubt that the Myanmar military was involved. On Saturday, a senior Chinese commander, Gen. Fan Changlong, a vice chairman of the Central Military Commission, also warned that Myanmar’s military must prevent warfare with armed ethnic groups spilling from the northern part of the country into China.
然而北京似乎确信，缅甸军队与此事有关。周六，中国高级指挥官、中央军委副主席范长龙上将还警告称，缅甸军方必须防止在缅甸北部与武装少数民族的战争蔓延到中国。
Late on Saturday, too, a spokesman for Chinese Ministry of National Defense, Senior Col. Geng Yansheng, said in a statement on the ministry’s website that Chinese forces had stepped up their patrols on the border with Myanmar. “If there is another incident of a Myanmar military plane overflying the border or other serious acts that endanger Chinese territorial sovereignty and national security, the Chinese military will respond by taking decisive measures,” Colonel Geng said.
周六晚些时候，中国国防部发言人耿雁生大校在国防部网站的声明中称，中国部队已经加强了中缅边境的巡逻力度。耿雁生说，“如果再次发生缅甸军机越境或其他危害中国领土主权和国家安全的严重行为，中国军队将坚决采取果断措施予以应对。”