Coastal wetlands in China have vanished at an alarming rate because of the country’s economic development, and current economic plans could diminish them to below the minimum needed for “ecological security,” including fresh water, fishery products and flood control, according to a report released on Monday by Chinese scientists and an American research center.
据中国科学家和一家美国研究中心周一发布的一份研究报告，中国的沿海湿地由于经济发展的原因，正在以惊人的速度消失，而目前的经济发展计划可能会让沿海湿地面积减少到保障“生态安全”所需要的最小值之下，湿地提供包括淡水、渔业和防洪等生态功能。
The report, based on 18 months of research, says that “the primary driver for the reduced area of coastal wetlands is the large-scale and fast conversion and land reclamations of coastal wetlands.”
这份报告是18个月研究的结果，报告说：“沿海湿地面积减少的首要推动力是大规模及快速的围海造地转换了沿海湿地的功能。”
The report adds to the rising concerns of scientists, ordinary Chinese and some officials that China’s decades of rapid economic growth have caused huge and possibly irreversible damage to the environment. Some Chinese leaders have acknowledged the need to protect environmental resources, but many agencies and officials still view economic growth as their top priority.
报告增添了科学家、普通老百姓、以及一些官员不断增长的担忧，人们担心，中国几十年的高速经济增长已给环境造成了巨大的、可能是不可逆转的破坏。虽然有些中国领导人已经认识到保护环境资源的必要性，但许多部门和官员仍然把经济增长作为他们的首要任务。
With annual growth now slowing to 7 percent or lower, many people are watching to see what measures central and local governments will use to sustain it, and how those measures will affect the environment.
随着现在的年度增长率放缓到7％或更低，很多人都在观察中央和地方政府会采取什么措施来刺激经济，以及这些措施会对环境造成什么影响。
The report was released by the Chinese State Forestry Administration, the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Paulson Institute, a research center on China that is based in Chicago.
上述研究报告是由国家林业局、中国科学院，以及和总部设在芝加哥的、研究中国问题的保尔森基金会(Paulson Institute)发布的。
“The life-support system is degenerating,” Lei Guangchun, a dean at Beijing Forestry University who was a lead researcher on the study, said in an interview on Monday. “Wetlands are the core of biodiversity along the coastlines. Now they are disappearing.”
北京林业大学的雷光春院长是这项研究的首席研究员，他周一接受采访时说，“生命支撑体系在退化。湿地是沿海地区生物多样性的关键。目前，湿地正在消失。”
Mr. Lei said that 60 percent of China’s natural coastline has disappeared because of development.
雷光春说，由于开发，60%的中国自然海岸线已经消失。
Henry M. Paulson Jr., chairman of the Paulson Institute and a former United States Treasury secretary, said in a written statement that “it is time to rethink the economic development model of the past and take decisive actions toward a more sustainable economic transition.”
保尔森基金会主席、美国前财政部长小亨利·M·保尔森(Henry M. Paulson Jr.)在一份书面声明中说，“到了需要反思过去的经济发展模式，采取果断行动转向更加可持续的经济增长模式的时候了。”
Among the chief political questions in China is whether President Xi Jinping is serious about transforming the nation’s infrastructure-driven economic model to a more sustainable one, and whether he has the power to do so. This is expected to be a main topic at a plenary session this month of the Communist Party’s Central Committee, which plans to discuss the 13th Five-Year Plan for economic development.
有关中国的主要政治问题之一是，习近平是否真想把中国靠基础设施推动的经济发展模式转型为更可持续的模式，他是否有权力做到这一点。这预计将是定于本月召开的中国共产党中央委员会全体会议上的一个主要议题，这次中共中央全会将讨论经济发展的第13个五年计划。
Last year, the State Council, which is China’s cabinet, and the State Forestry Administration announced that China had to ensure that by 2020, coastal wetlands did not fall below a “red line” of 131 million acres — the minimum necessary for ecological security. But plans to reclaim land from the sea and other projects endanger that goal, the report said.
去年，中国的内阁机构国务院以及国家林业局宣布了湿地保护“红线”，要求确保到2020年，沿海湿地面积不低于8亿亩，这是保障生态安全所需的最低值。但上述报告表示，填海造地计划以及其他项目危及这一目标的实现。
“Sea reclamation is deemed as the quickest and cheapest way to increase land supply in China’s eastern coastal areas,” the report said. It added that “huge economic returns from reclamation have prompted local governments to ‘bypass’ regulations issued by the central government.”
报告说，“填海造地被视为是增加中国东部沿海地区土地供应的最快、最廉价的方法。”报告补充说，“填海造地的丰厚经济回报让地方政府‘绕开’中央政府发布的规定。”
The report pointed to systemic problems with environmental conservation efforts. It said that “the legal system and effective legal basis remains inadequate to conserve coastal wetlands in China. Coastal wetland conservation efforts in China are still confronted with conflicts of multiple institutions and mechanisms.”
报告指出了环境保护工作中存在的一个系统性问题。报告说，“保护中国沿海湿地的法律制度和有效的法律依据仍然不足。中国沿海湿地的保护工作仍面临着不同机构和部门之间的冲突。”
This last point became evident at a news conference about the report on Monday that central government officials from various agencies attended. Several officials thanked the researchers but said that their agencies did not bear sole responsibility for protecting coastal wetlands.
最后这一点在周一发布报告的记者会上表现得十分明显，来自中央政府各个部门的官员出席了发布会。几名官员表示感谢研究人员的工作，但也表示，他们的机构不能承担保护沿海湿地的全部责任。
The report called for the central government to form a more systematic approach to wetlands conservation, an effort that now involves the overlapping authorities of 12 agencies and 11 coastal administrative areas.
报告呼吁中央政府建立一个湿地保护的更系统的机制，目前的湿地保护工作涉及12个部门和11个沿海行政区域的多重管理。
The report identified about 180 priority areas for conservation along the east coast, as well as 11 of the most important habitats for migratory birds.
报告确定了180个东部沿海湿地保护优先区，还划定了11个最重要的候鸟栖息地。
Zhang Zhengwang, a professor of zoology at Beijing Normal University who worked on the report, said Chinese coastal wetlands lay on the most important of nine global routes for migratory birds and were a critical resting point. “China’s wetlands are the only gas station, so to speak, along the way,” he said in an interview. “If they cannot feed here, they will die.”
北京师范大学的动物学教授张正旺参加了报告的研究工作，他说，中国沿海湿地位于最重要的九个全球候鸟迁徙路线上，是候鸟的一个重要的休息地点。“可以说，中国湿地是它们沿途的唯一加油站，”他在接受采访时说。“如果它们不能在这些地方补给食物，它们就会死掉。”