Just 13 of the 6,000 characters in the communiqué issued by the Chinese Communist Party’s Central Committee last month referred to pensions. But in a country where nearly 40 percent of the population is expected to be 60 or older by 2050, that terse mention contained one of the document’s most important policy statements.
中国共产党中央委员会上月发布的长达6000字的公报中，只有13字提到退休金。但是，如此简要的提及却包含了该文件最重要的政策声明之一，因为预计到2050年，中国有近40%的人口将超过60岁。
“We will achieve a basic pension for all employees nationally,” said the communiqué, issued after 18th Central Committee’s Fifth Plenum, which concluded last month.
“实现职工基础养老金全国统筹”，中国共产党第十八届中央委员会第五次全体会议公报中写道。此次全会于上个月闭幕。
China already provides pensions for many of its older citizens, but the system is fragmented and under severe strain. Longer life spans and four decades of the “one child” policy, which was lifted in another significant policy statement from the plenum, have swollen the ranks of retirees while shrinking the number of working-age adults available to support them.
中国已经为很多老人提供了养老金，但养老金系统各自为政，承受着巨大的压力。人均寿命延长，以及执行了40年的“独生子女”政策，导致退休人员数量增加，而供养他们的、处于工作年龄的成年人口却在萎缩。“独生子女”政策已经在本次全会的另一项重大声明中取消。
The pensions push is part of a broader effort to provide “old-age insurance” to all Chinese, the communiqué said. Although it did not provide details, it said this would include:
退休金方面的举措，是为所有中国人提供“养老保险”的动作中的一部分，公报说。尽管没有透露细节，但公报表示，其中将包括：
“Building a fairer and more sustainable social welfare system.
“建立更加公平更可持续的社会保障制度。
Implementing plans for every person to take part in social insurance.
实施全民参保计划。
Diverting capital from state-owned enterprises to social security funds.
划转部分国有资本充实社保基金。
Offering all urban and rural residents insurance for serious illness.”
全面实施城乡居民大病保险制度。”
(Health insurance has been significantly expanded in recent years, but it often does not adequately cover serious illnesses, meaning families must still save for such calamities.)
（近几年医疗保险虽然大幅扩大，但通常没有充分涵盖重大疾病，这意味着居民必须自己存钱，为这样的灾祸做准备。）
In the current pension structure, there are two main categories:
目前养老金主要有两个系统：
Broadly, one is for employees of urban enterprises and the other is more general, covering both rural and urban residents. Migrant workers in cities, of whom there are more than 200 million, who want to switch from the urban system back to their rural hometown system have encountered difficulties or even lost the money paid into their urban pension fund, though revisions to the rules in 2014 tried to improve that.
宽泛地讲，一种是城镇企业职工养老体系，另一种是更为普遍，涵盖城乡居民。在城市打工的农民工有2亿多人，他们要从城市养老系统转到自己农村老家的系统，但却遇到了很多困难，有的人甚至失去了存入城市养老基金的钱，尽管政府为了改进这个问题，在2014年修订了规则。
The government has embarked on a long-term plan to “merge the tracks” of these systems to avoid this problem, a point underlined by the plenum’s statement that it would achieve it “nationally.”
政府已着手开始一项长期计划，通过把养老金系统“并轨”来避免这个问题，全会的公报中强调了这一点，表示要实施“全国统筹”。
In theory, about 800 million of China’s 1.3 billion people receive or are eligible for a pension. Pensions for nonstate employees vary widely, as high as 3,000 renminbi, or $480, a month in Beijing to just 80 renminbi for farmers in some areas. Civil servants’ pensions are generally higher than those of nonstate employees.
理论上，13亿中国人中约有8亿人领取或有资格领取退休金。在非政府雇员中，养老金的金额差异很大。北京可能高达每月3000元人民币，但某些地区的农民一个月仅有80元。公务员的养老金通常高于非政府雇员。
But expanding social security coverage will require more money. By 2050, China will have a huge proportion of the world’s retirees by 2050, according to the minister of human resources and social security, Yin Weimin, not just because of its rapidly aging population but because it sets some of the world’s lowest retirement ages.
但是，扩大社会保障覆盖面将需要更多资金。人力资源和社会保障部部长尹蔚民表示，到2050年，在全球退休人员中，中国会占据相当大的比例，不仅是因为中国人口在迅速老龄化，也是因为中国设定的退休年龄属于全球最低的行列。
This week, there was another statement of intent from the very top, when Xinhua, the state news agency, issued a brief report that the plenum had “suggested” raising retirement ages.
本周，官方通讯社新华社发布了一则简短的报道，称全会“建议”提高退休年龄，这再次显露了最高领导层的意向。
Currently, Chinese women retire at 50 or 55 and men at 55 or 60, depending on whether they are blue- or white-collar workers, with the former retiring earlier. The retirement age is lower for women because they are expected to care for grandchildren and older family members.
目前，中国女性的退休年龄是50岁或55岁，男性退休年龄是55岁或60岁，具体取决于是蓝领还是白领，蓝领岗位的退休年龄较早。女性退休年龄比男性早，因为根据社会预期，她们要照顾孙辈及家中老人。