France has invited the Chinese police to Paris this summer to help with the pressures of huge numbers of Chinese tourists visiting the French capital, Agence France-Presse reported, citing a French Interior Ministry official. The move comes as Chinese travelers in France have experienced a rising number of robberies and assaults, the French news agency said.
法新社(Agence France-Presse)援引一名法国内政部官员的消息报道称，今年夏天，为了应对涌入法国首都游览的大量中国游客带来的压力，法方已邀请中国警方施以援手。法新社说，此举出台的原因是在法旅行的中国游客遭遇了越来越多的抢劫和袭击。
The Chinese Embassy in Paris said that details regarding the posting of the Chinese police are still being negotiated, the state-run China.org.cn website reported.
据中国官方网站中国网报道，巴黎的中国大使馆表示，派驻中国警察的细节仍在商讨之中。
The numbers of Chinese citizens traveling abroad has more than tripled in the past decade, approaching 100 million last year. Their numbers are helping to prop up retail spending in many global travel destinations. Like the American and Japanese tourist waves that proceeded them, the Chinese have made France a top destination. In 2012, 1.4 million Chinese visited France, and the number is predicted to approach 4 million by 2020.
过去10年，中国公民的出境游人次增长了三倍多，去年的出境游人次已接近1亿。这个数字帮助支撑了全球许多旅游目的地的零售消费。就像法国之前经历的美国游客潮和日本游客潮一样，中国人已经把法国列为首选的旅游目的地。2012年，有140万中国人到法国旅游，到2020年，中国赴法游客人数预计将达400万。
Last year, a series of robberies raised concerns about the safety of Chinese visitors, many of whom carry large amounts of cash and shop for luxury goods in Paris. A Chinese tour group was robbed at a restaurant shortly after arriving in Paris in March 2013. Some tour companies have reported that buses carrying Chinese travelers have been raided while stuck in traffic, with culprits smashing windows and grabbing bags. The Paris police said petty crime against Chinese citizens increased 22 percent in the first quarter of 2013 compared with the previous year, Reuters reported.
去年，一系列的抢劫案引发了对中国游客安全的关注，许多中国游客携带了大量现金，并在巴黎购买奢侈品。2013年3月，抵达巴黎不久之后，一个中国旅行团就在一家餐馆遭到了抢劫。一些旅游公司报称，载有中国游客的大巴在堵车时被抢，罪犯砸碎车窗玻璃，抢走了游客的手袋。据路透社(Reuters)报道，巴黎警方表示，和前一年同期相比，2013年第一季度针对中国公民的轻微犯罪增加了22%。