SEOUL, South Korea — Liu Liping and two college friends recently toured Seoul on a monthlong vacation funded in part by their parents. They saw the sights. They went shopping.
韩国首尔——刘丽萍（音）和两个大学好友最近有一个月的假期，她们来到首尔旅行，部分费用由父母提供。她们游览名胜、逛街购物。
One night, the three young Chinese women visited the latest hot spot: a plastic surgery clinic.
一个晚上，这三个年轻的中国女孩来到了最新的热门场所：整容诊所。
Ms. Liu, 24, wanted to have her jaw broken and restructured to get a V-shaped face. Dr. Kim Tae-gyu at Braun Plastic Surgery suggested something less drastic. “But look! I have huge bones, I need to do it,” Ms. Liu protested. They settled on removing several millimeters of bone from her chin and cheekbones. Her friends, Wu Haiyan, 26, and Jin Meilan, 25, considered nose jobs.
24岁的刘丽萍想要削骨，做成V字脸。布劳恩整形医院(Braun Plastic Surgery)的金泰奎医生（Kim Tae-gyu，音）建议她做一些不那么巨大的改动。刘丽萍抗议道，“看看！我的骨头好大，我需要削骨。”他们商定好把她下巴尖及颧骨上的骨头去掉几毫米。她的朋友——26岁的吴海燕（音）和25岁的金美兰（音）考虑做鼻子。
Cosmetic surgery, pervasive in South Korea, is now the must-do activity for many Chinese visitors.
在韩国非常普遍的整容手术，现在已经成为很多中国游客一定要做的事情。
The lights stay on all night in the Gangnam district, where plastic surgery clinics line the streets. Signs in Chinese beckon visitors. Once they are inside, translators stand ready.
江南区整夜灯火通明，街道两旁有很多整容诊所。有很多吸引中国游客的中文标牌。游客一进入诊所，翻译们就准备就绪了。
Seizing an opportunity to tap the steady and ubiquitous flow of China’s newly rich who are traveling overseas, South Korea’s government is promoting the country as a place to shop, eat, stay — and perhaps get a nip and a tuck.
韩国政府抓住这个机会，迎接源源不断的、无处不在的中国出境游新贵，将韩国打造成一个可以购物、享用美食及停留的地方——或许还可以整整容。
And the Chinese, mainly women, are visiting in droves for body modifications, from the minor, like double eyelid surgery, to the extreme, like facial restructuring. While plastic surgery is common in China, South Korean hospitals are perceived to be safer and more hygienic, albeit pricier.
中国人成群结队地来到韩国整形，尤其是女性——内容从割双眼皮等小手术到面部重塑等大手术都有。虽然整容手术在中国已经非常普遍，但人们认为韩国医院更安全、更卫生，尽管价格更高。
“When the Chinese come to the stores, they empty them,” said Kim Soo-jin, a representative at the medical tourism unit of the Korean tourism office. “If we can turn them into medical tourists, they are more likely to stay longer. They will eat one more meal, buy one more thing and go to another site.”
“中国人逛商店时会一扫而空，”韩国旅游局医疗观光部代表金秀真（音）说。“如果能将他们转变成医疗游客，他们可能会在韩国待更长时间。他们会多吃一顿饭，多买一个东西，多去一个地方。”
The South Korean government is setting aside as much as $4 million a year to help promote the medical tourism industry, which is dominated by plastic surgeons. It expects one million medical tourists a year by 2020, up from 211,218 last year, with Chinese travelers representing the largest segment.
韩国政府每年会留出高达400万美元（约合2487万元人民币）的资金，帮助推动医疗旅游业的发展，整形外科医生在该行业占据主导地位。据韩国政府的估计，到2020年，每年赴韩旅游的医疗游客会从去年的211218名增至100万名，中国游客占的比例最大。
Tour operators sell travel deals that include shopping, sightseeing and plastic surgery. Premier packages include a stretch limo for the ride from the hotel to the clinic. Licensed brokers take a cut of the total surgery costs, up to 35 percent.
旅行社推出包括购物、观光及整容在内的旅游项目。最重要的服务包括乘坐加长版豪车从酒店前往诊所。有执照的经纪人可以从中提成，最多达到手术费用的35%。
While prices for tourists vary widely, a basic double eyelid surgery can cost more than $900. A plastic surgery trip, with hotel and other activities, can run around $15,000. In general, it is more expensive than in China.
游客支付的费用各不相同，基本的双眼皮手术需要逾900美元。整容之行的费用大约为1.5万美元，其中包括酒店及其他活动的费用，通常比中国贵。
“I’ve seen them coming in with bags of money,” said Dr. Ro Young-woo, a founding partner of a South Korean franchise chain of clinics called Oracle Clinic.
韩国整容诊所连锁机构奥拉克诊所(Oracle Clinic)的创始合伙人卢永宇（Ro Young-woo，音）说，“我看到他们拿着成袋的现金来诊所。”
Popular culture has had an influence. Korean television shows and movies are wildly successful in China. Patients often take magazine photos to their consultations.
流行文化发挥了影响力。韩国的电视节目和电影在中国广受欢迎。病患经常拿着杂志照片进行咨询。
“We see more assertiveness in Chinese patients than Korean patients,” Dr. Kim Eung-sam, a plastic surgeon and director at the Hershe clinic in Seoul. “They want to look like certain Korean celebrities.”
“我们发现中国顾客比韩国顾客更坚定，”首尔赫尔希(Hershe)诊所的整形医生、主任金恩森（Kim Eung-sam，音）说。“他们希望看起来像某些韩国明星。”
During their trip, Ms. Liu, Ms. Wu and Ms. Jin planned to see the sights featured in their favorite Korean TV show, “My Love From the Star.” They bought clothes like those worn by the show’s female star, Jeon Ji-hyun. Ms. Jin asked for the same nose as another famous Korean actress, Han Ga-in.
在旅行过程中，刘丽萍、吴海燕和金美兰计划游览她们最喜欢的电视剧《来自星星的你》中出现过的景观。她们购买了与剧中女主角全智贤(Jeon Ji-hyun)所穿服装类似的衣服。金美兰还要求做另一位韩国著名女星韩佳人(Han Ga-in)式的鼻子。
South Korea is building on a tradition of cosmetic surgery. A recent study by the International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery estimated that South Korea had the highest rate of cosmetic surgery per capita of any country in the world. Seoul TouchUp, a government-approved medical tourism agency, states in its marketing materials that “Korean women are arguably more objectified by their male counterparts than any other women in the world.”
韩国依靠的是整容传统。国际美容整形外科学会(International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery)最近的一份研究显示，韩国是全球人均整容手术率最高的国家。有政府认可资质的医疗旅游机构塔琪雅(Seoul TouchUp)在推广材料中写道，“韩国女人被当地男人物化的程度，无疑要比世界上任何其他地方的女人都要高。”
“In terms of advertising it’s very much exaggerated,” says Dr. Cha Sang-myun, the chairman of the Korean Association of Plastic Surgeons, which is calling for tighter industry regulations. “You see it everywhere: on the subways, on the buses and even in the movie theaters.”
“广告方面是非常夸张的，”韩国整形外科医生协会(Korean Association of Plastic Surgeons)主席车尚勉(Cha Sang-myun)说。“到处都能看到：地铁、公车，甚至电影院。”
It has also become an attainable commodity for Chinese, particularly for young women who see plastic surgery as a way to enhance their personal or professional prospects.
对于中国人，特别是那些认为整形手术是提升个人发展及职业前景的一种途径的年轻女性，这已经成为一种可以负担的商品。
“I did it now because I thought it would be harder to do later on,” said Wang Yue, a soft-spoken woman from Beijing who spoke days after a double eyelid procedure, a nose implant and facial contouring.
“我选择现在做，因为我觉得以后做会更难，”来自北京的王月（音）说。这位声音柔和的女性在接受采访前几天做了双眼皮、隆鼻和面部轮廓重塑手术。
Ms. Wang, 24, said most of her friends had some form of plastic surgery “because we want to be more beautiful.” She rattled off the benefits, like the chances of making more money.
今年24岁的王月表示，她的大多数朋友都做过某种形式整形手术，“因为我们希望变得更漂亮。”她不假思索地说出了整形的好处，比如可能会赚更多钱。
Besides, she added, “I think I’ll look better in different clothes.”
除此之外，她还表示，“我觉得我穿不同的衣服看起来也会更漂亮。”
Some Korean doctors are voicing concern. The flood of demand has spawned a cluster of unlicensed hospitals, brokers and unqualified doctors, according to Dr. Cha of the plastic surgeon association. “If there are 10 plastic surgeons out there, there are another 100 who are not qualified,” he said.
一些韩国医生表达了担忧。整形医生协会主席车尚勉透露，需求的增加催生了大量没有许可证的医院、经纪人，以及不具备资质的医生。他说，“如果说有10名整形外科医生，那就还有另外100名没有资质的医生。”
And the procedures that many Chinese tourists seek come with the highest rate of complications. Some undergo several procedures at once. Dr. Kim at Braun described how one recent patient booked a series of surgeries — double jaw, facial contour, nose job, double eyelid, liposuction and a fat graft.
很多中国游客想做的手术，出现并发症的概率也是最高的。布劳恩整形医院的金泰奎医生表示，最近的一名病患预定了一系列手术——上下颌、面部重塑、鼻部整形、双眼皮、抽脂和脂肪移植。
One of the most popular procedures is facial contouring, which involves altering the shape of the face by shaving and removing bone from the cheeks, jaw and chin. Double jaw surgery is a more radical and popular version that requires realigning the top and bottom jaws.
面部重塑是最受欢迎的手术之一，这种手术通过削薄或摘除脸颊、颌部和下巴的骨头来改变脸型。上下颌矫正术是其中更激进、也更流行的一种，需要调整上颌和下颌的位置。
Chinese patients undergo these painful surgeries to alter their faces into a V-shape, giving them highly coveted delicate features. They are also popular among Korean men and women.
中国顾客会通过这些痛苦的手术把自己的脸变成V形，从而获得梦寐以求的精致轮廓。这些手术也很受韩国男女的欢迎。
“I think they have gone totally overboard,” said Dr. Walter Peters, a professor of surgery at the University of Toronto. Radical jaw surgery in the United States and Canada, he added, “could sometimes be done for cosmetic reasons but it is usually done for developmental or post-traumatic reasons.”
“我认为他们完全着了迷，”多伦多大学(University of Toronto)外科手术教授沃尔特·彼得斯(Walter Peters)说。他还说，在美国和加拿大，大幅矫正下巴的手术“有时的确是为了美容，但通常是因为发育不良或者受过创伤”。