If you’re a man in China between 20 and 45, the government has a message for you: For the sake of your country, please donate sperm.
如果你是20岁至45岁的中国男人，那么政府有一条消息要传达给你：为了国家，请捐精。
China’s sperm banks are facing severe shortages, for a variety of political and cultural reasons. Comparatively few Chinese men offer to donate, and a study found that almost half of those who do volunteer are screened out.
由于各种政治和文化原因，中国的很多精子库严重缺精。相对而言，中国男人很少捐精。一项研究发现，近半数自愿捐精者遭到淘汰。
Now that government policy allows more Chinese couples, including older couples, to have a second child, officials are concerned that the sperm shortages will get much worse — and they are doing everything they can to find new recruits.
由于中国政府允许更多夫妻生二孩，包括年纪较长的夫妻，所以官员们担心精子短缺的情况将会更严重——他们竭尽全力寻找新的捐精者。
On social media, young men are bombarded with endorsements from video-game characters and promises of cash (up to $1,000 in some cases) and, even better, a coveted rose-gold iPhone.
在社交媒体上，年轻男子不断收到各种激励，如电子游戏角色的代言推荐和现金承诺（某些项目提供高达1000美元），更吸引人的还有很多人梦寐以求的玫瑰金iPhone。
Some sperm banks have tried to appeal to feelings of patriotism, as China grapples with an aging population and a diminishing work force. “Show your compassion,” an article on a state-run news site urged men this year. “Help mitigate the country’s aging problem.”
有些精子银行努力激发人们的爱国主义情绪，因为中国正在努力应对人口老龄化、劳动力减少的问题。“拿出你的同情心，”一家国营新闻网站今年的一篇文章这样号召男人们，“帮助国家缓解老龄化问题。”
Still, it’s a tough sell. For one thing, Chinese traditional medicine has long associated high levels of semen with vitality, making some men reluctant to give any away. In addition, despite rising rates of infertility, many families are uncomfortable with using an unrelated man’s sperm to father children, arguing that it goes against Confucian values.
不过，实现起来依旧很难。首先，中医一直把精子储备与人体活力联系在一起，有些男人因此不愿捐精。另外，尽管不孕不育的比例在升高，但是很多家庭对使用不相干的男人的精子生孩子感到不舒服，认为那违背儒家价值观。
Recent ads have tried to counter those deep-seated attitudes. “Donating sperm and donating blood are the same thing,” said one message from a Beijing sperm bank. “It’s all about giving back to society.”
最近的一些广告努力对抗这些根深蒂固的观念。“捐精和捐血是一样的，”北京一家精子银行发布了这样的信息，“都是回馈社会。”