HONG KONG — China’s financial system is in danger of becoming too big to bail out.
香港——中国的金融体系面临着一个危险：它有可能因为过于庞大而无法救助。
Official bank lending has more than doubled since the global financial crisis, growing nearly twice as fast as the overall economy. The even bigger problem, however, appears to come from the rise of a shadow banking system that has allowed a number of companies and individuals, often with political connections, to borrow from state-controlled banks at low interest rates and relend the money at much higher rates to private businesses desperate for credit at almost any price.
自全球金融危机以来，中国官方银行贷款规模增加了一倍多，增速是整体经济发展速度的近两倍。但是，更严重的问题似乎来自于一个影子银行系统：大量往往拥有政治背景的公司和个人，以低利率从国家控制的银行借出资金，然后把它们以高得多的利率转借给那些对贷款几乎饥不择食的民营企业。
Now, in an effort to wean the banks and the economy off their addiction to such risky practices, Beijing has pledged to deliver what amounts to the country’s most sweeping financial overhaul in decades. Markets will play the “decisive” role in directing the economy, policy makers promised last month after a key plenum meeting of the Communist Party leadership. Interest rates are to be liberalized, cross-border investment will be welcomed and regional and bureaucratic protectionism will be curtailed, they declared.
现在，为了让银行和经济戒掉对这种冒险做法的瘾，北京已承诺要进行几十年来最彻底的金融改革。决策者上个月在关键性的中共十八届三中全会后承诺，市场将起到指导经济的“决定性”作用。他们宣称要放开利率，欢迎跨境投资，控制地方和官僚保护主义。
But already, even relatively modest government moves are producing turbulence in money markets; just this week China’s central bank was forced to back off, at least temporarily, to avoid putting too much stress on the banking system and potentially drawing an angry reaction from powerful vested interests in China accustomed to paying very little for their loans.
但是，即便相对温和的政府举措也已经在货币市场引起了动荡；就在本周，中国央行被迫后退，至少是暂时后退，以免让银行系统承受太多压力，防止既得利益者可能出现的愤怒反应，中国这些既得利益者势力强大，已经习惯了以非常低廉的成本获得贷款。
“It’s been pretty clear since June, and especially clear since the plenum, that the new crowd is interested in tightening monetary policy and letting interest rates rise,” said Arthur R. Kroeber, the Beijing-based managing director of GK Dragonomics, an economic research firm. “The purpose is to reduce the rate at which credit is expanding, which has been a bit of a problem over the last couple of years.”
“新的领导者想要收紧货币政策，让利率上升，这一点从今年6月以来就已经很清楚，三中全会以后尤为明显。”经济研究公司龙洲经讯(GaveKal Dragonomics)的驻北京董事总经理葛艺豪(Arthur R. Kroeber)说。“这样做的目的是降低信贷扩张的速度，在过去几年中，这方面存在一点问题。”
China has experimented twice this year with much higher, market-driven interest rates. As with a similar experiment in June, the central bank allowed rates late last week and early this week to soar to unsustainable levels. Instead of regularly scheduled open-market operations, the bank tried unconventional methods of guiding money markets.
中国今年已经两次尝试在市场驱动下大幅提升利率。和6月的一个类似试验一样，上周末和本周初，央行让利率飙升到了难以维持的水平。它没有通过定期的公开市场操作，而是试图用非常规的方法引导货币市场。
That approach involved the central bank’s turning to posts on China’s Twitter-like social messaging service, Sina Weibo, to chasten banks to “make rational adjustments to the structure of their assets and liabilities, and improve their liquidity management using a scientific and long-term approach.”
手段还包括还在新浪微博上发帖，责成银行“合理调整资产负债结构，提升流动性管理的科学性和前瞻性”。新浪微博是中国一个类似Twitter的社交短信息服务。
But as in June, the experiment did not last long. On Tuesday, China’s central bank, the People’s Bank of China, provided a direct injection of fresh money after the market pushed seven-day interest rates to nearly 10 percent, double their earlier level. The central bank’s action eased pressure on the financial system and quelled fears of an immediate credit crisis. But rates remain elevated, and the bank may have only postponed the moment of reckoning for a few months.
但与6月一样，这个实验并没有持续多久。周二，央行中国人民银行直接向市场注入了新的资金，这时，七天利率已经接近10%，较之前几乎翻了一倍。央行的行动缓解了金融系统的压力，平息了即将出现信贷危机的担忧。但利率仍然高企，银行可能只是把清算的时间推迟了了几个月。
“The key message from the current central bank-induced tightness is deleveraging,” said Stephen Green, the head of research for greater China at Standard Chartered. “We’ll see what happens when we see greater levels of corporate distress in 2014, whether Beijing buckles or not.”
“央行现在采取紧缩措施，它传达的关键信息是去杠杆化，”渣打银行(Standard Chartered)大中华区研究总管王志浩(Stephen Green)说。“等到2014年，企业陷入更加严重的困境时，我们就能看到北京是否会做出让步。”
A complex and loosely regulated network of financial go-betweens has sprung up to profit from repackaging and reselling China’s new mountains of debt, turning loans into investment products. Such products have become popular among ordinary investors in China because they pay much higher interest rates than deposits in savings accounts, where rates are capped by the government to protect the state-owned banking system from competition.
一个复杂的、监管松散的金融中间人网络已经快速发展起来，他们对中国新的债务大山进行重新包装和转售，把贷款转化为投资产品，从中渔利。这类产品已经在中国的普通投资者中流行起来，因为它的利率高于储蓄利率。中国政府对储蓄利率设定了上限，以保护国有银行系统不受竞争的冲击。
But loosely regulated financial businesses can make a dicey business model, as Wall Street learned in 2008. And they pose a particular threat in an economy where growth is slowing, as it has been in China for the last three years.
但监管松散的金融公司可能会构成一种风险较高的商业模式，华尔街2008年发生的事情就是经验教训。而且它们在经济增长放缓的情况下尤其有威胁；过去三年，中国的经济增长就在放缓。
“The final users of the money will not be able to earn returns high enough to repay the money and promised interest,” said Yu Yongding, a senior fellow at the Institute of World Economics and Politics of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and a former member of the monetary policy committee at China’s central bank. “The chains of lending and borrowing can be long, just like the securitized subprime mortgages. The result can be devastating.”
“这些资金的最终用户将无法赚取足够高的回报来偿还这笔钱和承诺的利率，”中国社会科学院世界经济与政治研究所高级研究院余永定说，他曾经是中国央行的货币政策委员会成员。“借贷的链条可能会很长，就像证券化的次级抵押贷款一样。其后果可能是灾难性的。”
Indeed, the real-life stress tests the central bank has been experimenting with are not without casualties. As markets became jittery in the run-up to the June credit crunch, two branches of the state-owned China Everbright Bank technically defaulted on 6.5 billion renminbi, or $1.1 billion, worth of short-term payments.
事实上，央行在现实中进行的压力测试也已经造成了伤害。由于今年6月的信贷收紧之前，市场变得战战兢兢，中国光大银行的两个分支机构出现了65亿元人民币的短期贷款偿还技术违约。
In a regulatory disclosure that was part of its $3 billion Hong Kong share offering earlier this month, the Everbright Bank explained that while it had sufficient financing and liquidity at the corporate level, “the branches did not manage to fulfill their obligations to repay short-term interbank loans.” Instead, the payments were settled a day late.
本月初，光大银行在为其30亿美元规模的H股发行招股时，在监管信息披露公告中解释说，它在企业层面有足够的资金和流动性，“是分支机构未能履行义务，没有偿还短期同业贷款”。不过该​这些款项已经在次日结清。
The bank said that in response to the episode and to the greater volatility in China’s bank-to-bank lending market, it had increased reserve levels and “emphasized among our departments the overriding importance of sound liquidity.”
光大银行称，为应对这一事件，以及应对中国银行同业拆借市场中出现的更大波动，它增加了储备水平，并且“在公司各部门中强调，良好的流动性具有压倒一切的重要性”。
The big risk for China’s cosseted banks is not necessarily bank runs of the sort seen in the early 1930s in the United States, with depositors lining up to withdraw money before a bank can fail. The Chinese authorities have made clear that they will not tolerate disorderly closures of banks, and over the years have reportedly rushed cash to banks that faced sudden withdrawals.
中国娇生惯养的银行所面临的巨大风险，不见得就是上世纪30年代美国的那种挤兑，也就是储户在银行倒闭前到门口排队取钱。中国政府已经明确表示，他们不会坐视银行失控倒闭，多年来一直也有报道说，当银行遇到突如其来的取款问题，政府会紧急注资。
Instead, the greater worry has been what some experts describe as “a walk on the banks” — depositors steadily removing their savings from banks after losing enthusiasm for deposit rates that have long been set by regulation at levels often below the inflation rate and only occasionally slightly above it. That slow drain could imperil the banks’ ability to continue pumping ever-larger loans to state-owned enterprises and politically connected individuals, even when many of those loans appear to be for helping borrowers repay previous loans.
更大的隐忧是被一些专家称为“银行储蓄出走”的情况——储户对存款利率失去了兴趣，逐步从银行取出自己的积蓄，因为监管者将储蓄利率设定在一个往往低于通胀率的水平上，只是偶尔才略高于它。这种缓慢的存款流失，可能让银行无力继续把更多资金贷给国有企业，以及拥有政治背景的个人，即便这些贷款中的很大部分似乎是用来帮助借款人偿还以前贷款的。
Banks in China have been able to stay profitable while lending at low rates only because the government has required all of them to pay even lower rates for deposits. Savers have had few alternatives to banks until very recently: Real estate prices are already stratospheric relative to incomes, the weakly regulated and highly speculative domestic stock markets are widely distrusted and shadow banking businesses are periodically reined in by the government.
中国的银行之所以可以在提供低息贷款的同时保持盈利，完全是因为政府要求所有银行给出更低的存款利息。储蓄者一直到最近都没什么别的选择：房地产价格和收入相比已经处在极高的水平，监管不善、极具投机性的国内股票市场普遍缺乏信誉，而影子银行业务又不断受到政府管束。
Total credit in China, although growing fast, remains slightly smaller relative to economic output than in the West. The worry is that the eventual proportion of nonperforming loans may prove even higher than other countries have had to manage, while China’s less developed financial system may make it hard to bail out less regulated entities, even as the central bank retains tighter links to the four main state-owned banks.
中国的信贷总额虽然增长迅速，但和经济产出的比例相对于西方还是略低一些。令人担心的是，如果最终证实不良贷款的比例比其他国家还高，那么以中国欠发达的金融体系，在援救那些监管不善的实体时会更加困难，即便央行对四大国有银行保持了更紧密的联系也于事无补。
While policy makers say they are worried about upsetting the delicate mechanisms of the current banking system, public criticism continues to grow, even within China’s elite. That suggests further market-oriented experiments could be coming soon.
虽然政策制定者说他们担心的是，当前银行体系的微妙机制被打乱，但公众的批评声与日俱增，甚至在中国的权贵阶层也有不满。这意味着进一步的市场导向实验可能很快会到来。
“Banking in China has become like a highway toll system,” Yao Jingyuan, the former chief economist at the state statistics agency, said late last week during a speech at Nanjing University, according to numerous Chinese news reports. “Banks charge every time money goes through them.”
据多家中国媒体报道，前国家统计局总经济师姚景源上周末在南京大学演讲期间说：“我觉得现在银行就像高速公路上的收费站，从门口过去就得给钱。”
“With this kind of operational model,” Mr. Yao added, “banks will continue making money even if all the bank presidents go home to sleep and you replaced them by putting a small dog in their seats.”
姚景源还说，以这样的运营模式，“银行行长可以在家睡觉，办公椅上放一只小狗，银行照样盈利。”