“Another kindergarten hands out drugs to children behind their parents’ backs,” wrote The Beijing News, as reports spread on Tuesday that a kindergarten in a third Chinese province had secretly administered an antiviral drug to children in an effort to improve their resistance to illness, thereby cutting down on sick days that would reduce revenue.
周二，消息传开，中国已在第三个省份发现了暗中给幼儿服用抗病毒药物的幼儿园。《新京报》写道，“又是幼儿园背着家长给孩子乱喂药。”幼儿园认为，给儿童服用此类药物可以增强对疾病的抵抗力，从而减少请病假导致的收入损失。
Kindergartens in China often charge according to the days a child attends.
中国的幼儿园通常以孩子出勤的天数收取相应费用。
The scandal has given rise to a cynical play on words. The Chinese word for “kindergarten” is “you’eryuan,” similar to “yao’eryuan” or “druggarten.” That newly coined word made the headline of The Beijing News.
这一丑闻再次让人们以讽刺手法玩起了文字游戏。中文里的“幼儿园”与“药儿园”读音相近。这一新造的词语也成了《新京报》的一个大标题。
Officials in the city of Yichang in Hubei Province said they had closed Xingang Kindergarten after it emerged last Saturday that the kindergarten’s administrators and teachers had been giving children daily doses of moroxydine hydrochloride.
人们上周六发现，湖北宜昌馨港幼儿园的管理人员和老师长期以来每天给幼儿服用病毒灵。当地的官员表示，该幼儿园现已停业整顿。
The cheap antiviral drug is widely used in China to combat colds and the flu, and at least four kindergartens, in Hubei, Shaanxi and Jilin Provinces, have been found to have given them to children without their parents’ knowledge, some reportedly starting in 2008. The practice is believed to have been especially common in the spring and autumn, when many Chinese believe fluctuating temperatures increase the likelihood of catching a cold.
这种廉价的抗病毒药物在中国被广泛用来治疗病伤风和流感。迄今为止，在湖北、陕西和吉林三省已至少发现了四家幼儿园在未告知家长的情况下为儿童服用病毒灵，据说其中一些始于2008年。报道认为，这种做法在春秋两季尤为普遍。很多中国人相信，这两个季节的气温变化大，儿童更易患感冒。
In Xi’an, the capital of Shaanxi Province, where the scandal broke earlier this month after a child told his parents about the daily pill he had to swallow.
本月初，陕西省省会西安的一名儿童跟父母提到了他每天要服用的药片，此事就此曝光。
In Xi’an, the two kindergartens in question were identified as Fengyun and Hongjin New City. The kindergarten in Jilin City was identified in news reports as Fanglin Kindergarten.
西安的两所问题幼儿园分别是枫韵幼儿园和鸿基新城幼儿园。根据新闻报道，吉林省的那家幼儿园名为芳林幼儿园。
Like parents of children at the other kindergartens, parents at Xingang Kindergarten in Yichang told The Beijing News that they believed their children had been healthy before starting kindergarten but soon began to suffer from stomach upsets, irregular heartbeat, skin problems and nausea. Some children told their parents that teachers had made them swallow “white, bitter” pills.
和其他幼儿园的家长一样，宜昌馨港幼儿园的孩子家长告诉《新京报》，他们认为自己的子女入园之前身体很健康，但之后很快就出现了肚子痛、心慌、皮肤痒和呕吐的情况。一些孩子告诉父母，老师让他们吃“白色的、苦苦的”药片。
The government has offered free medical examinations for children from the affected kindergartens, and so far a half-dozen kindergarten administrators and teachers have been detained for investigation, according to news reports.
据新闻媒体报道，对于涉事幼儿园的儿童，政府提供了免费的医疗检查。迄今为止，已有六七位幼儿园的管理人员和老师被捕并接受调查。
Chinese kindergartens generally do not welcome parental involvement. It is normal for parents to be barred from the inside of a kindergarten, giving teachers and administrators great power. Parents usually drop off their toddlers at the door, where they may have their temperature checked and are examined for swollen neck glands or any unusual color inside the mouth. They are then picked up at the door at the end of the day.
中国的幼儿园通常来说不欢迎家长的参与。家长不得进入幼儿园，由老师和管理人员来掌握大权，这种情况再正常不过。家长们往往会在幼儿园门口放下孩子，然后孩子也可能会在那儿接受量体温，以及对颈部腺体或口腔内任何异常颜色的检查。然后一天结束后，家长们又会在门口接上孩子。
State news media have expressed alarm. Xinhua, the state-run news agency, has run articles on the main concerns, including what the long-term health effects might be of daily doses of the antiviral drug. For now that seems unclear, with tests of the children still underway.
官方新闻媒体已发出警示。官方通讯社新华社就一些主要问题发表了数篇文章，其中包括对每日服用病毒灵的长期副作用的讨论。目前来说，对相关儿童的检查还在进行，而这种药物究竟有什么长期影响似乎还不清楚。
The Beijing News quoted an education professor at Tianjin Normal University, Han Yinghong, as saying that the government urgently needed to step up the monitoring of kindergartens and the credentials of their health care staff, and to improve teacher training.
在《新京报》的报道中，天津师范大学教育学院教授韩映红表示，政府急需加强对幼儿园及其保健医生资质的管理，并加强教师的培训。
Many comments have focused on the kindergartens’ alleged profit-seeking in trying to enhance attendance through drugs. But others have pointed to another problem — the overmedication of children. This can lead to entire classrooms of high school students being hooked up to intravenous drips containing vitamin, saline or antiviral preparations in the days before major examinations, in the hope of giving them an energy boost.
许多的评论将焦点集中在所谓的幼儿园逐利上，说它们企图用药物来增加出勤率。但还有人指出了另一个问题——儿童的药物滥用。这一点会驱使高中生在大考前几天全班一起静脉输液，输入包含维生素、盐水或抗病毒制剂的液体，希望这能让他们精力充沛。
“The Xi’an kindergarten incident, in the end, points to a societywide problem, which is the overuse of drugs on children,” wrote Wang Zhi’an on his verified Sina Weibo account.
王志安在他获得认证的新浪微博中写道，“西安幼儿园事件，最终的指向应该是全社会针对孩子的药品滥用问题。”
Children suffering from colds or the flu should be properly treated with appropriate medications and not prophylactically blanketed with drugs, Mr. Wang wrote. “And the parents should always be informed and in agreement.”
王志安还写道，患了伤风或流感的儿童应该接受适当的药物治疗，而不是出于预防目的而大量用药。“都应该获得家长的知情同意。”