BEIJING — Apple is facing a potential setback in China, one of its biggest and fastest-growing markets, after the much-anticipated introductions here of the new iPhone models were delayed.
北京——中国是苹果公司(Apple)最大、增长最快的市场之一，但由于备受期待的新款iPhone在中国大陆的发售被延后，公司在这里的发展可能遇挫。
On Wednesday, Apple told China’s three big state-owned mobile service providers that it would not release the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in mainland China on Sept. 19, when sales start elsewhere. The carriers had already booked advertising campaigns for the phones.
周三，苹果告诉中国三大国有移动运营商，9月19日iPhone 6和iPhone 6 Plus首发时，将不包括中国大陆。然而，在此之前，这些运营商已经预先安排了新款iPhone的广告活动。
The move set off consternation among Apple’s partners in China, as well as with consumers who had been eagerly awaiting the introductions. Apple did not explain the delay, executives at the carriers said, but it appeared the phones had not received approval from Chinese regulators to go on sale.
此举让苹果在中国的合作伙伴及一直翘首期待的消费者大吃一惊。相关运营商的高管表示，苹果未对推后在大陆的发售做出解释，但似乎是因为新款手机尚未获得中国监管机构的销售许可。
Apple’s staff in China appeared to have been caught off-guard by the last-minute change of plans, with one executive saying on Wednesday that all of the company’s stores in Beijing and Shanghai had been preparing for sales to begin on Sept. 19. The executive spoke on the condition of anonymity.
苹果在中国的员工似乎也对最后时刻的计划变更措手不及。一名不愿具名的高管在周三表示，苹果在北京和上海的所有店铺一直在筹备9月19日的首发。
Representatives of Apple told the Chinese mobile carriers only that “there are some details which are not ready,” according to a sales manager at China Telecom, who declined to be named. “Apple completely let us down without prior notice,” the manager added.
中国电信的一名销售经理称，苹果的代表仅告诉移动运营商，“部分细节尚未准备好。”不愿公开姓名的这名经理还说，“苹果没有提前通知，彻底让我们失望了。”
Apple declined to comment on Wednesday, as did representatives for China’s three main mobile carriers, which also include China Mobile and China Unicom. Apple’s Chinese website carried a statement saying only that the date of the iPhone 6’s availability would “be updated soon.”
周三，苹果以及中国三大移动运营商的代表均拒绝置评。除中国电信外，另外两家运营商为中国移动和中国联通。苹果的中文网站刊登的说明仅表示iPhone 6的发售日期将“随后更新”。
News reports in China on Wednesday said the iPhone 6 had not yet been approved by the Ministry for Industry and Information Technology, which must sign off on the technology of devices like smartphones. No approval for the iPhone 6 could be found on the regulator’s website on Wednesday.
周三出现的中文报道显示，iPhone 6尚未获得工业和信息化部的批准。智能手机等设备采用的技术必须取得该部门的同意。然而截至周三，这一监管部门的网站上并未出现iPhone 6的相关信息。
Initially, Apple tended to release new iPhones in the China market many months after they had been released elsewhere. That changed last year, when Apple started sales of the iPhone 5S and 5C models in China on Sept. 20, the same day as in the United States and other major markets.
最初，苹果往往先在中国大陆以外的市场发行新款iPhone，数月之后才在这里上市。不过去年，苹果做出了改变，于9月20日开始在中国销售iPhone 5S和iPhone 5C，与包括美国在内的其他主要市场同步。
In January, Apple began selling iPhones through China Mobile, the country’s dominant mobile carrier. It had previously reached sales agreements with the country’s other two biggest carriers.
今年1月，苹果开始通过中国最大的移动运营商中国移动出售iPhone。公司之前已与其他两大运营商达成了销售协议。
Greater China — including the mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan — is Apple’s fastest-growing major market and is the company’s third-biggest globally, after the Americas and Europe. Apple reported sales of $5.9 billion in greater China from April to June, a 28 percent increase from the same period a year earlier. By contrast, sales in other regions grew 1 to 6 percent. Greater China accounted for 16 percent of Apple’s total revenue in the three-month period, up from 13 percent a year earlier.
包括中国大陆、香港和台湾在内的大中华地区是苹果增长最快的主要市场，也是仅次于美国和欧洲的全球第三大市场。据苹果公布的财报，今年4月至6月，公司在大中华区的销售额达到了59亿美元（约合362亿元人民币），同比增长了28%。相比之下，其他地区销售额的增长则从1%到6%不等。在这三个月中，大中华区占了苹果总营收的16%，而一年前的比例为13%。