On Monday, Sun Dongtao, an ear, nose and throat doctor at Qiqihar Beigang Hospital, in the northern province of Heilongjiang, was beaten to death with an iron bar by a patient unhappy with his treatment, the state news agency Xinhua reported.
国家媒体新华社报道，黑龙江省齐齐哈尔北钢医院耳鼻喉科的孙东涛大夫周一被一位患者用铁管打死，该患者对其治疗效果不满。
On Tuesday, Li Aixin, a doctor at the Yi County People’s Hospital in Hebei Province was stabbed in the throat by a patient dissatisfied with the outcome of an operation. Dr. Li’s windpipe was cut open and his thyroid gland severed, but he survived, according to the Beijing Times.
据《京华时报》报道，河北保定易县人民医院的李爱新医生周二在办公室被一名因对手术效果不满意的病人割喉。李爱的气管暴露，甲状腺被割断，经抢救脱离生命危险。
The two attacks this week are part of a long line of violence against doctors in China that has spooked the profession. In October, hundreds of medical personnel demonstrated outside the No. 1 People’s Hospital in Wenling in Zhejiang Province, where a man had stabbed three doctors, killing one. They held signs reading: “Restore My Dignity” and “Defend Justice.”
本周发生的这两起事件是中国一系列暴力袭击医生事件的延续，在医疗行业引起恐慌。去年10月份，浙江省温岭市第一人民医院外数百医务人员进行抗议，此前一名男子在医院用刀捅伤三名医生，致使一人死亡。抗议者举着“还我尊严”、“维护正义”等标语。
The reasons for the violence vary but are believed to be tied to public perceptions of excessive health care costs, corruption among doctors and medical institutions, and poor bedside manners by physicians. Patients who pay high fees or bribes for operations expect to be healed, and when they are not, may react violently.
这些暴力事件的原因各异，但通常认为与下列问题有关：公众认为医疗费用过高，医生以医疗机构腐败，以及医生的临床态度较差等。那些支付了高昂医疗费、或者为动手术送了礼的患者，希望能治好病，如果效果不佳，他们可能会用暴力方式报复。
Medical industry representatives have called for harsher punishments for attackers, an appeal repeated this week by Deng Liqiang, the head of the legal department of the Chinese Medical Doctors Association.
医疗界代表已经呼吁要对袭击医生者采取更严厉的惩罚，中国医师协会法律事务部主任邓立强本周再次提出了这一呼吁。
“In recent years the punishments for many violent attacks on doctors have been insufficient and the deterrent too low,” The Beijing Times quoted him as saying. “That won’t contain violent attacks or deter imitators,” it quoted Mr. Deng as saying.
《京华时报》援引他的话说，“近年来许多伤医暴力案件的惩戒力度不够，威慑力不足，没能遏制暴力案件的效仿效应。”
Meanwhile, the head of Yi County People’s Hospital, Zhao Shuangan, told the newspaper that the police were providing 24-hour patrols of the facility since the attack on Dr. Li.
同时，易县人民医院院长赵双安对该报称，李爱新被袭击以后，院方启动了警务室24小时巡查系统。
Mr. Zhao said the attack had caused “panic” among the hospital staff, but everything was now operating “normally.” Dr. Li was still unable to speak, but was expected to recover, he said.
赵双安说，这次袭击给医院职工造成“恐慌”，但是现在医院工作运行“正常”。他说，目前，李爱新还不能讲话，但生命体征平稳。
The Ministry of Public Security and the National Health and Family Planning Commission said in October that in 2012, there were 11 violent attacks on medical staff at hospitals in eight provinces and municipalities, leaving seven people dead and 28 wounded, including doctors, patients and a security guard.
公安部以及国家卫生和计划生育委员会去年10月份称，2012年在8个省市共发生了11起针对医院医疗人员的暴力袭击事件，造成7人死亡，28人受伤，其中有医生、病人和一名保安。
Other figures suggest broader violence: Since 2002, attacks have risen by an average of nearly 23 percent a year, the China Hospital Management Society said in a paper published in December in Chinese Community Doctors, a medical journal.
其他数据暗示出暴力事件的范围更广：中国医院管理学会12月份在《中国社区医师》杂志上发表的一份论文称，2002年以来，袭击医生的事件以平均每年近23%的速度增长。