Once in a while in the fiercely contested East China Sea, a bit of international cooperation breaks out.
在有激烈争议的东中国海上，偶尔也会突发一点国际合作。
On Wednesday, a Chinese balloonist took off from the coastal province of Fujian, trying to land on an island claimed by both China and Japan. Unfortunately, the balloonist, a cook by profession, didn’t make his target — a small islet in the chain of islands called the Senkaku by Japan and the Diaoyu by China — and issued a distress signal as he went down at sea.
周三，一名中国人从沿海的福建省乘热气球起飞，试图降落在中国和日本都宣称拥有主权的岛屿上。然而不幸的是，这名职业为厨师的气球飞行者没能降落在自己的目的地，也就是日本称为尖阁诸岛、中国称为钓鱼岛的一系列小岛之一上，他在落水时发出求救信号。
After being alerted by nearby Taiwanese authorities that the man was missing, Japan sent patrol boats, which rescued the balloonist on Wednesday afternoon in waters about 13 miles south of his destination. The man was identified as Xu Shuaijun, 35, and officials said his balloon was forced to land after hitting turbulence south of the islands.
在附近的台湾警方发出该人失踪报警之后，日本派出巡逻舰，于周三下午在距离这位气球飞行者原定降落目标以南约22公里的海水中将他救起。这位名叫徐帅军（音译）的男子，现年35岁，官员称他的热气球在这些岛屿以南遭遇气旋而被迫降落。
According to the Japan Times, the Japanese Coast Guard decided not to seek criminal charges against the man, since officials did not know precisely where he landed. Instead, they arranged to turn him over to a Chinese patrol ship outside waters that Japan considers part of its territory.
《日本时报》(Japan Times) 报道称，日本海上保安厅(Japanese Coast Guard)决定不追究此人的刑事责任，因为官方不知道他降落的准确地点，而是把他转交给了一艘中国巡洋舰，该中国船只位于日本认为属于本国领海以外的水域。
“The Chinese vessel thanked the Coast Guard via radio for the rescue operation,” the Japanese Coast Guard said.
日本海上保安厅称，“中国舰只通过无线电感谢了海上保安厅的这次援救行动。”
Chinese nationals have occasionally attempted to land on the contested islands to press the country’s territorial claims, with a group of protesters who set off from Hong Kong going so far as to plant a flag on an island before being detained by the Japanese Coast Guard.
中国民族主义者偶尔会试图通过登陆这些有争议的岛屿来强调中国的主权宣称，曾有一群从香港出发的抗议者将国旗插到一座岛屿上，之后他们被日本海上保安厅逮捕。
The attempted balloon landing and peaceful resolution came amid tension between China and Japan over their conflicting territorial claims, a recent visit by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to a shrine seen by many as a symbol of his country’s wartime aggression and China’s announcement of an air defense identification zone that encompasses the disputed maritime areas.
这次热气球登陆尝试以及事件的和平解决正值中日就有争议领土问题出现紧张局势之时，最近日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)拜访了一个被很多人视为日本战时侵略标志的神社，中国则在前不久宣布在有争议海域上空划设防空识别区。
It was also a far cry from other recent doings in the similarly contentious South China Sea, where a United States Navy cruiser almost collided in December with a Chinese ship during routine maneuvers in the contested waters, raising new fears of military conflict.
救援活动也与最近在南中国海上发生的一些情况相去甚远，12月份一艘美国海军巡洋舰在南中国海有争议海域例行航行时几乎与一艘中国船只相撞，这一事件引发人们对发生军事冲突产生新的担忧。
That incident happened as the American cruiser was in the area observing China’s new aircraft carrier, which had been on its first mission to the South China Sea. On Wednesday, Chinese news media reported that the carrier, the Liaoning, had finished several tests in the area, including drills of its combat readiness. The refitted Soviet-era aircraft carrier is a centerpiece of China’s efforts to bolster its naval capabilities as it seeks to counter decades-long American naval dominance of the Pacific.
当时这艘美国巡洋舰正在观察中国的新航空母舰，该航空母舰是首次前往南中国海。中国媒体周三报道称，这艘名为“辽宁号”的航空母舰已完成了在该海域的试验训练任务，其中包括作战准备的演习。这艘由苏联时代舰只改装的航空母舰是中国加强其海军能力的核心部分，中国正在寻求对抗美国海军在太平洋上长达数十年的主导地位。