Amid sharply rising tensions over North Korea’s nuclear arms program, China said on Thursday that its trade with the country had expanded, even though it had complied with United Nations sanctions and stopped buying Korean coal, a major source of hard currency for Pyongyang.
在围绕朝鲜核武器计划的紧张局势急剧升级的时候，中国周四表示与朝鲜的贸易有所增长，尽管中国已执行了联合国的制裁措施，停止从朝鲜购买煤炭，煤炭是平壤主要的外汇来源。
China released the first-quarter trade data just days after President Trump urged its leader, Xi Jinping, to clamp down on trade with North Korea. The two leaders met at Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago compound in Florida last weekend.
就在特朗普总统敦促中国领导人习近平严格限制中国与朝鲜之间贸易的几天后，中国公布了第一季度的贸易数据。上周末，两国领导人曾在佛罗里达州特朗普的马阿拉歌(Mar-a-Lago)庄园会晤。
With signs indicating that North Korea could be planning a nuclear or missile test as early as Saturday, a United States Navy strike group led by the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson is steaming toward the Korean Peninsula in a show of force. But the Trump administration has indicated that economic pressure — particularly imposed by China, with which North Korea conducts almost 90 percent of its trade — is its preferred form of deterrence.
有迹象表明，朝鲜可能最早会在周六策划进行核试验或导弹试验。为展示武力，由卡尔文森号航空母舰率领的美国海军打击编队正在驶向朝鲜半岛水域。但是，特朗普政府已表示，经济压力、特别是由中国施加的经济压力，是美国首选的遏制方式，朝鲜几乎90%的贸易是与中国进行的。
On Wednesday, Mr. Trump said in interviews that he had encouraged Mr. Xi to solve the North Korea problem, offering China a better trade deal if he did so.
周三，特朗普在采访中表示，他已劝告习近平要解决朝鲜问题，如果习近平这样做的话，中国会得到更好的贸易协议。
Recent satellite images indicate that North Korea may be preparing for an underground nuclear test, which would be its sixth in a decade. North Korea often conducts such tests on important anniversaries, and Saturday is the 105th anniversary of the birth of the country’s founder, Kim Il-sung.
最近的卫星图像显示，朝鲜可能正在准备进行一次地下核试验，这将是十年中的第六次。朝鲜经常在重要的纪念日进行这种试验，周六是朝鲜创始人金日成的105岁诞辰。
The trade data released on Thursday showed that China’s trade with North Korea grew 37.4 percent in the first quarter of this year from the period in 2016. Chinese exports surged 54.5 percent, and imports increased 18.4 percent, the General Administration of Customs said at a news conference in Beijing.
周四公布的贸易数据显示，中国与朝鲜的贸易今年第一季度与2016年同期相比增长37.4%，海关总署在北京举行的发布会上说，中国对朝鲜的出口激增54.5%，进口增长18.4%。
China buys iron ore, zinc and other minerals from North Korea, as well as growing amounts of seafood and garments manufactured in the North’s well-equipped textile factories. China reported that its imports of North Korean iron were up 270 percent in January and February compared to the period in 2016.
中国从朝鲜购买铁矿石、锌及其他矿产，也从朝鲜购买越来越多的海鲜和服装，朝鲜有设备精良的纺织工厂。据中国报道，今年1月和2月中国从朝鲜铁进口的铁矿石总量比2016年同期增长270%。
But imports of coal dropped 51.6 percent in the first three months of 2017 compared to the first quarter of last year, said Huang Songping, a spokesman for the customs agency. Coal has been the biggest hard-currency earner among North Korea’s fairly limited menu of exports.
但海关总署发言人黄颂平说，2017年头三个月的煤炭进口比去年同期下降51.6%。煤炭在朝鲜相当有限的出口产品中一直是最大的硬通货来源。
China agreed to stiffer United Nations sanctions last November, after the United States said Beijing’s coal purchases were helping to pay for the North’s nuclear weapons program. The coal, used in China’s steel mills, earns the North about a billion dollars a year, according to economists.
美国曾表示，北京的煤炭进口正在帮助朝鲜的核武器计划，那之后，北京在去年11月同意加强实施联合国对朝鲜的制裁。据经济学家统计，用于中国钢铁厂的煤炭每年可让朝鲜赚取约10亿美元。
China had not imported any coal from North Korea since Beijing imposed a cutoff on Feb. 19, said Mr. Huang, the spokesman. That ban has been interpreted as punishment for the February killing in Malaysia of Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half brother of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, which Pyongyang has been accused of orchestrating.
发言人黄颂平说，自从北京2月19日暂停进口朝鲜煤炭之后，中国再也没有从朝鲜进口任何煤炭。该禁令被解释为是对平壤的惩罚，今年2月，与朝鲜领导人金正恩关系疏远的同父异母哥哥金正男在马来西亚遇害，平壤被指责策划了暗杀行动。
There have been other indications that China was following through on its promise to stop buying the North’s coal. Shipping data from this month showed a dozen cargo ships returning to North Korea fully laden, after China ordered its trading companies to return coal, Reuters recently reported. Mr. Trump referred to that as an encouraging sign in one of his interviews on Wednesday, a detail that appeared to show that he was paying attention to China’s actions against North Korea.
也有其他迹象表明，中国遵守了其停止购买朝鲜煤炭的承诺。据路透社最近报道，在中国下令交易公司退回购买的煤炭之后，本月的运输数据显示，十几艘返回朝鲜的货船全都装满了货物。特朗普在周三接受的几次采访中有一次提到这个数据，称其为令人鼓舞的迹象。从这个细节来看，他正在关注中国对朝鲜采取的行动。
After the United Nations sanctions were announced, some economists said it was still possible for Chinese businesses to import coal on an off-the-books basis, using transactions that would not be recorded by customs officials.
在联合国的制裁宣布之后，一些经济学家曾表示，中国企业仍可能在不入账的基础上、也就是通过不被海关官员记录的交易进口煤炭。
But since mid-February, Chinese coal traders have said that their business has virtually vanished.
但自2月中旬以来，中国的煤炭进口商表示，他们的业务基本上已不复存在。
On Wednesday, Global Times, a prominent state-run Chinese newspaper, said that if the North tested another nuclear bomb or a missile, restrictions on oil might be the next step. North Korea is almost entirely reliant on China for crude oil.
周三，中国一家有名的官方报纸《环球时报》表示，如果朝鲜再次进行核弹或导弹试验的话，下一步可能会是限制石油。朝鲜的石油几乎完全依赖中国。
“If the North makes another provocative move this month, the Chinese society will be willing to see the United Nations Security Council adopt severe restrictive measures that have never been seen before, such as restricting oil exports to the North,” the paper said in an editorial.
《环球时报》在一篇社评中写道：“如果朝鲜在本月再破底线，中国社会将会愿意看到安理会做出包括严格限制对朝鲜出口石油的空前严厉反应。”
How much harder China would bear down on North Korea by its own volition remained an open question.
中国会在多大程度上主动对朝鲜施加更大的压力仍是一个未决的问题。
“It’s hard to ban normal trade that is not prohibited by U.N. resolutions,” said Yang Xiyu, a former Chinese diplomat who led China’s delegation to the so-called six-party talks on the North’s nuclear arms development in the mid-2000s.
曾在本世纪头10年中期带队参加就朝鲜核军备问题进行的所谓六方会谈的前中国外交官杨希雨说，“很难禁止未被联合国决议禁止的正常贸易。”
The Chinese Foreign Ministry cautioned on Thursday that Washington should not expect China to squeeze its neighbor, and ally, to the point that sanctions would provoke instability, and possibly the collapse of the North’s government. Nor would China be enthusiastic about more sanctions being placed by others on North Korea, the ministry said.
中国外交部周四警告说，华盛顿不应指望中国会对其邻国、也是盟国的朝鲜过度施压，以至于让制裁引起不稳定，甚至导致朝鲜政府垮台。外交部表示，中国也不会热衷于其他国家对朝鲜采取更多的制裁。
Asked about the impact of secondary sanctions that could be applied by the United States on Chinese firms that do business with North Korea, the ministry’s spokesman said Beijing was opposed to such actions.
当被问及美国可能会对与朝鲜有业务往来的中国企业进行次级制裁的影响时，外交部发言人表示，北京反对这种做法。
“China has always opposed the frequent use of unilateral sanctions in international affairs, and we especially oppose those sanctions that undermine China’s interests,” the spokesman, Lu Kang, said at a briefing. “China always decides its own stance and policy based on the merit of the matter itself.”
“中方一向原则上不赞成在国际事务中动辄使用单边制裁的做法。我们尤其反对这些单边制裁损害中方的利益，”发言人陆慷在例行记者会上说。“中方一向根据事情本身的是非曲直决定中方自己的立场和政策。”