When 26-year-old Tang Guo left his hometown in Sichuan Province for the neighboring province of Yunnan in 1993, all he had was 2 renminbi in his pocket and, as Mr. Tang put it, a willingness to “eat bitterness,” a Chinese term for resilience and toughness. Twenty years later, Mr. Tang is the head of a real estate construction group with 20 subsidiaries and fixed assets worth more than 2 billion renminbi, or about $328 million.
1993年，26岁的唐果从四川省的家乡前往邻省云南，有的只是口袋里的两元人民币，以及他所说的“吃苦”意愿。20年后，唐果成为了一家房地产建设集团的老总，该集团拥有20家分公司，固定资产价值超过20亿元人民币。
But it isn’t Mr. Tang’s rags-to-riches story that has swept across domestic media — China has no shortage of nouveau riche who paved their own way. Rather, it is how Mr. Tang has chosen to spend his money that has put him in the spotlight.
然而，国内媒体广泛报道的不是唐果白手起家的故事，因为中国不缺靠自己致富的暴发户。将唐果推到聚光灯下的是他选择的花钱方式。
Instead of stashing his money in offshore bank accounts or buying up foreign real estate – common but widely denounced choices of China’s rich – Mr. Tang decided to build an entire village of luxury villas in his hometown, Huaying, for his parents and friends, replacing the mud-walled huts that had stood for generations. The 69 new houses, which cost Mr. Tang 30 million renminbi, were completed on Monday. Villagers are scheduled to move in before the Chinese Lunar New Year, known as Spring Festival, which starts Jan. 31.
唐果没有将钱存入离岸银行的账户，也没有购买外国房产——这些都是中国富人普遍却广受批评的选择。他决定在自己的家乡华蓥为父母和朋友建设一个别墅式村庄，取代那些有几代人历史的泥墙小屋。耗资3000万元人民币的69套新房子于周一完工。村民们将在春节，也就是明年1月31日前搬入新居。
“I visited Huaying during the last Spring Festival and realized that the folks back home did not have very good living and working conditions,” Mr. Tang told local media. “I decided at that moment that I would help them.”True to his word, construction soon began on the villas, with parallel projects underway to upgrade water and electricity systems and build new roads. Photographs published on Tuesday by Xinhua, the state-run news agency, show dozens of imposing three-story villas surrounded by rice paddies and agricultural greenhouses.
“去年春节前回家，发现乡亲们的居住条件和生产生活环境不怎么好，”唐果告诉当地媒体，“就想帮助一下他们。”唐果遵守诺言，很快就开始建设别墅，同时开始更新供水和电力系统，修建新道路。官方媒体新华社周二发布的照片显示了数十座壮观的三层别墅，别墅周围是稻田及农业大棚。
Mr. Tang’s move has struck a chord with many Chinese, not simply because of the size of his gift, but because of the familial devotion inherent in the act. Chinese tradition has long enshrined ideals of filial piety, but the pressures of the market economy have made it difficult for many children to live up to these cultural expectations. Migrant workers, for example, are often forced to leave their aging parents behind when they seek jobs in far-off corners of China.
唐果的举动在许多中国人心中引起了共鸣，这不仅是因为礼物的规模，也是因为这个举动蕴含的孝道。中国传统一直很重视孝道，市场经济的压力却让很多孩子都难以达到中国文化对他们的期望。例如，外来务工人员往往不得不把年迈的父母留在家里，自己则到国内的遥远地方去寻找工作。
Posts on Sina Weibo, China’s most popular microblog site, expressed widespread admiration for Mr. Tang. “If all of our country’s wealthy could be like Tang Guo, China truly would become a paradise,” wrote a man with the username “rensheng2943.”
中国最受欢迎的微博网站新浪微博上充溢着对唐果的赞扬。用户名为“人生2943”的用户写道，“如果我国的富人都能像唐果一样，中国真的会变成天堂。”
After arriving in Kunming, the provincial capital of Yunnan, in 1993, Mr. Tang was hired as a construction worker, mostly mixing cement and laying bricks. But the moment he accumulated enough savings, he quit and organized a work team of his own. “I’d rather have one renminbi and be the boss than have 10 renminbi and be a worker,” he told reporters.
1993年，到达云南省省会昆明之后，唐果找到了建筑工人的工作，主要任务就是和水泥和搬砖。但是，攒下足够的钱之后，他便辞了工，自己组织了一个施工队。他告诉记者，“我宁愿当只有一块钱的老板，也不愿意当有10块钱的工人。”
Before long, a local real estate company hired him as a project manager, a job he excelled at before jumping ship to set up his own real estate construction company. The group he founded now employs more than 2,000 people, including about 900 engineers.
不久之后，一家当地房地产公司就来找他当项目经理，他干得非常好，后来便转行成立了自己的房地产建筑公司。他创立的集团目前有员工2000多人，其中包括约900名工程师。
Asked whether his wife and two children supported his decision to donate such a large sum to his home village, Mr. Tang told a reporter from the Chengdu Commercial News: “We already donated 300,000 renminbi to my wife’s hometown to build a highway, and this money will not affect my children. They’ll have to achieve their own success and build their own futures.”
被问及妻子和两个孩子是否支持他向家乡捐这么一大笔钱时，唐果告诉《成都商报》的记者：“我的妻子早年前就在她娘家修了条公路，耗资30多万元。我的两个儿子都在念书，为乡亲们付出的这些钱，对他们不会有任何影响。再说儿孙自有儿孙福，他们的未来由他们自己去创造。”