After an outsized international effort to help the Philippines that has been notable for China’s slow response, it appears the Chinese authorities are trying to reverse the damage to their country’s image.
在国际社会的大规模援菲行动突显中国的缓慢回应后，中国当局似乎正在努力挽回此事对中国形象造成的损害。
China has offered to send its world-class hospital ship, the Peace Ark, to the Philippines, said Ramon Carandang, a spokesman for President Benigno S. Aquino III, in a telephone interview from Tacloban, the city hardest hit by Typhoon Haiyan.
菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)的发言人拉蒙·卡兰当(Ramon Carandang)在塔克洛班接受电话采访时表示，中国已主动提议向菲律宾派遣“和平方舟”号(Peace Ark)世界级医院船。塔克洛班是受台风“海燕”(Typhoon Haiyan)影响最严重的城市。
Mr. Carandang said that China had told the Philippine Foreign Ministry informally on Sunday that the Peace Ark, a 300-bed ship with eight operating theaters, would be available. On Monday, the Chinese made a formal offer.
卡兰当表示，中国于周日非正式地告知菲律宾外交部(Foreign Ministry)，中国可以派遣拥有300个床位和八个手术室的“和平方舟”号医院船。周一，中国方面正式提出该援助计划。
In Beijing on Tuesday, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said that he had “no information” as to whether the Peace Ark would be sent.
周二，中国外交部发言人洪磊在北京表示，对于中国是否会派出“和平方舟”，他“没有获得消息”。
Mr. Carandang said the decision to accept the offer of the Peace Ark would be up to the Filipino Health Ministry, which is determining where international aid is most needed. But he predicted that the go-ahead for the Chinese ship, a gleaming 14,000-ton vessel that just completed a two-month, eight-nation goodwill tour through South and Southeast Asia, would come in several days.
卡兰当表示，是否接受“和平方舟”将由菲律宾卫生部(Filipino Health Ministry)决定，卫生部正在确认哪里最需要国际援助。但他预计菲律宾将在未来几天放行中国医院船，这艘闪闪发光的1.4万吨医院船刚刚结束了对南亚及东南亚八个国家为期两个月的友好访问。
“That’s a decision we don’t want to wait too long on,” he said.
他说，“我们不希望这个决定耽搁太长时间。”
The Peace Ark, launched in 2010, is described in military journals as a state-of-the-art hospital ship, and one of the few actually built for medical purposes. Most such ships used by the United States and Russia are converted container vessels, according to the Foreign Military Studies Office at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
一些军事杂志称2010年下水的“和平方舟”是最先进的医院船，也是少数的确为医疗目的建造的船舶之一。据位于堪萨斯州莱文沃思堡的外国军队研究办公室(Foreign Military Studies Office)透露，美国及俄罗斯使用的医院船大部分都是改装的集装箱船。
The presence of the United States aircraft carrier George Washington off the Philippine coast, which has been serving as a floating airfield with its scores of helicopters delivering relief supplies, together with the deployment of United States Marines and aid from the United States Agency for International Development, has dwarfed efforts by other countries. But the outpouring of help from around the world, particularly from Britain, Australia and Japan – China’s biggest Asian rival – has put China on the back foot.
菲律宾海岸附近出现了美国的乔治·华盛顿号(George Washington)航母、美国海军陆战队(United States Marines)以及美国国际开发署(United States Agency for International Development)提供的援助，使得其他国家的援助相形见绌。乔治·华盛顿号航母一直充当浮动机场，航母上有大批负责运送救灾物资的直升机。但世界各地涌来的援助仍然使中国显得落后，特别是英国、澳大利亚及日本——中国在亚洲的最大竞争对手提供的帮助。
For a while, some analysts said, it appeared that China held back for fear that its assets would compare unfavorably with those of the United States. The Peace Ark’s 300 beds, however, can hold their own against the 51-bed hospital ward on board the George Washington.
一些分析人士表示，中国在一段时间内犹豫不定，似乎是因为中国担心自己的装备与美国的装备相比会处于劣势。然而，“和平方舟”的300个床位毫不逊色于乔治·华盛顿号上拥有51个床位的病房。
The deployment of the Peace Ark would seem an ideal gesture to help heal injured people, as well as strained diplomatic relations between the Philippines and China.
中国派遣“和平方舟”似乎是一个理想的姿态，表示中国愿意帮助救治受伤人员，修复中菲之间紧张的外交关系。
In an assessment of the Peace Ark, the Foreign Military Studies Office at Fort Leavenworth said the ship may have been designed, in part, to alleviate concerns about China’s military expansion.
在一份有关“和平方舟”的评估中，莱文沃思堡的外国军队研究办公室表示，建造这艘医院船可能部分是为了缓解外界对中国军事扩张的担忧。
“Such concern for generating diplomatic good will at the military level also shows that China may be worried about global views of its military, especially the increasing global reach of its navy,” the commentary said. “Military expansionism is often seen as the most threatening aspect of China’s global rise. Engendering good will and lessening the perceived threat of its global naval expansion are important strategic goals for China and the PLA Navy.”
“中国如此急于在军事层面展示友好外交态度，也表明它或许比较担心国际社会对其军队的看法，特别是中国海军目前正在扩大它在世界上的覆盖范围，”评论说道。“在人们眼中，军事扩张主义往往是中国崛起过程中最具威胁性的内容。表现友好态度、减少人们所感知的中国海军全球扩张所带来的威胁，是中国和人民解放军海军的重要战略目标。”
Rear Adm. Shen Hao, who commanded the Peace Ark on its recent two-month tour, has described the ship as “a calling card for China.”
“和平方舟”最近这段两个月行程的指挥员、海军少将沈浩说，这艘医院船是“中国的名片”。
“This mission displays our character as a great nation,” he said before the ship left for its two-month mission.
在这艘船出发执行这次两个月任务之前，他曾经说，“这次任务展示了我们作为一个伟大民族的品格。”
During stops in Yangon in Myanmar, Karachi in Pakistan and Mumbai in India, the Chinese medics on Peace Ark treated civilian visitors, and during joint disaster relief exercises in the Gulf of Aden the staff performed surgeries for officers from a NATO combined task force, according to the Chinese military. In October, the ship returned to its home port, Zhoushan, in the eastern Chinese province of Zhejiang, not far from the Philippines.
中国军方称，“和平方舟”曾在缅甸仰光、巴基斯坦卡拉奇和印度孟买停留，船上的医护人员对到访的平民进行了治疗；此外，在亚丁湾的联合救灾演习中，医护人员给北约(NATO)联合任务组的一些官员做了手术。10月，“和平方舟”回到了它的船籍港浙江舟山，这里离菲律宾不远。
The reluctance to send substantial aid, especially given China’s proximity to the Philippines, has been largely explained by the sour relations between the two countries over territorial disputes in the South China Sea.
中国之所以不愿意提供大量援助，很大程度上是因为两国由于南海领土争端而关系紧张。考虑到中国与菲律宾相距不远，这种解释更显合理。
China’s first impulse when Typhoon Haiyan hit was to use its leverage to punish the Philippines, said Paul Haenle, director of the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing. “The message was: ‘The Philippines, you are in the penalty box.’ ”
北京清华-卡内基全球政策中心(Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy)的主任韩磊(Paul Haenle)说，台风“海燕”来袭时，中国的第一反应就是利用它的影响力来惩罚菲律宾。“他们传达的讯息是：‘菲律宾，你们被罚下场了。’”
“It’s petty,” said Chu Shulong, a professor of political science and international relations at Tsinghua University in Beijing. It showed, he added, “that China doesn’t have a big power mentality and foreign policy is still emotional.”
北京清华大学政治学及国际关系学教授楚树龙说，“中国没有一个大国应有的气度，外交政策仍然太过感性，这样显得很小家子气。”
Even Global Times, a usually nationalist-leaning newspaper owned by People’s Daily, the ruling Communist Party mouthpiece, criticized the government’s paltry aid to the Philippines as mean and short-sighted.
隶属于《人民日报》(People’s Daily)的《环球时报》(Global Times)通常倾向于民族主义立场，连它也指责政府对菲律宾的有限援助既小气又缺乏远见。
After the deployment of the Peace Ark, China has still another possibility up its sleeve.
除了派遣“和平方舟”之外，中国还有另一种呼之欲出的选择。
In the days after Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines last week, 60 Chinese soldiers and observers were training with American soldiers in a small disaster-management exercise in Hawaii that was designed to mimic what should be done to help civilians after a typhoon. It was the first joint practical military field exercise by China and the United States, an effort pushed by the Pentagon to improve ties between the two militaries.
上周，在台风“海燕”袭击菲律宾之后的几天，60名中国士兵和观察员在夏威夷的一次小型灾难应对演习中与美国士兵一同受训，这次演习旨在模拟如何在台风发生后帮助平民。这也是中美两国的首次实用性联合军事演习，由美国国防部促成，目的在于加强两国的军事联系。
Was there any talk last week between the Chinese and the American soldiers of what was happening in the real event in the Philippines?
那么，中美两国的士兵上周是否曾就菲律宾的实际情况进行讨论？
“Limited informal discussion,” said a spokesman for the United States Pacific Command.
美国太平洋司令部(United States Pacific Command)的一名发言人说，“有限的非正式讨论。”