Kuang Qingming, a banker in Beijing, made a snap investment decision this fall.
邝清明（音）是北京的一名银行从业者，今年秋天他突然间做出了一个投资决定。
With China’s once-booming property market drifting into the doldrums, Mr. Kuang sold an apartment he bought seven years ago for 400,000 renminbi, or roughly $65,000, basically breaking even on the investment. He then plowed half the proceeds straight into the stock market.
随着中国一度火爆的房地产市场变得低迷，邝清明卖掉了他七年前花40万人民币购买的公寓，基本上不赚不赔。然后他把一半的卖房款用来炒股。
“Almost everyone I know is investing, so I think I should be investing, too,” said Mr. Kuang, 51.
“我认识的人差不多都在炒股，所以我觉得我也应该炒股了，”51岁的邝先生说。
“The index has been rising this year,” he added. But his own stock portfolio’s performance, he said, was essentially flat.
“今年股指上涨了，”他说。不过他的股票投资组合的表现基本持平。
China has been grappling with a slowing economy, falling property prices and increasingly tight financing conditions. But the country’s stock markets have been surging, thanks in large part to regular investors like Mr. Kuang.
中国正在竭力应对以下问题：经济放缓、楼价下跌和信贷的日益收紧。但中国股市一直在飙升，这在很大程度上得益于邝清明这样的普通炒股者。
Ordinary Chinese have been piling into the market at a pace not seen since 2007, before the financial crisis, in some cases pulling money from savings deposits or cashing out of property investments as they try to win big. Investors in Shanghai and Shenzhen opened nearly 900,000 new stock trading accounts in the week that ended Dec. 12 alone-, the most in seven years.
中国老百姓纷纷入市的场景，还是金融危机前2007年来最热闹的一次。为了赚大钱，有些人动用储蓄存款来炒股，或者卖房炒股。在截至12月12日的一周里，上交所和深交所新开股票账户接近90万户，创下七年来的新高。
After several lackluster years, Shanghai’s benchmark stock index now ranks as the best-performing major index in the world, up 50 percent so far this year and 31 percent since the start of November. This month, the Shanghai index surpassed 3,100 points — the highest level in nearly five years.
上证指数在经历了数年的平淡表现之后，现已成为世界上表现最好的主要股指，今年到目前为止，涨幅达50%。自11月开始，则已经涨了31%。本月，上证指数冲过了3100点，创下近五年来的新高。
Brokerage firms in China, the largest of which are state-controlled, have been riding high on the rally, too. On Monday, shares in Guosen Securities soared by the maximum limit of 44 percent in their trading debut in Shenzhen, after the company raised 7 billion renminbi in an initial public offering. Haitong Securities and Citic Securities, two of the country’s biggest brokerage companies, are both planning new share sales in Hong Kong.
中国券商也乘势冲高。该国规模最大的券商属于国有控股。本周一在深交所，国信证券在首次公开发行中募集了70亿元人民币的资金后，在交易首日飙升到了44%的最高限额。中国顶级券商海通证券和中信证券均计划在香港增发新股。
Although the Chinese leadership has long hoped to see a rebound in the country’s stock markets, the current frenzy carries risks that could stick investors with heavy losses. Much of the trading is also being done on margin, or by using borrowed funds to buy shares. So the boom could unwind even faster if sentiment sours.
虽然中国领导层长期以来都希望股市反弹，但目前的暴涨隐含着风险，可能会给投资者带来惨重损失。很多交易使用了融资融券，或是使用了借来的钱。所以如果股市情绪波动，涨势可能会来得快，去得更快。
“There’s so much leverage in the market now that it’s really easy for it to become very volatile,” said Anne Stevenson-Yang, a co-founder of J Capital Research in Beijing.
“股市里的杠杆太高，现在真的很容易变得极不稳定，”美奇金（北京）投资咨询有限公司(J Capital Research)的联合创始人杨思安(Anne Stevenson-Yang)说。
China’s market regulators “are not going to tamp down expectations, but they are going to try to control the leverage, in order to make it a little bit less of a casino,” she added.
中国的市场监管机构“不会打击人们的期望，但他们会尽量控制杠杆率，让股市变得不那么像赌场，”她说。
Authorities are trying to curb the worst excesses of the boom. On Dec. 19, the China Securities Regulatory Commission said in a news release that it had started market-manipulation investigations involving the shares of 18 companies with small market values. The regulator has been seeing new types of short-term manipulation, including “pump and dump” schemes in which investors talk up certain stocks to lift their prices, then quickly sell them at a profit, according to the statement, which was published on its website.
当局正在试图遏制最严重的过度暴涨。12月19日，中国证券监督管理委员会在一份新闻稿中表示，已开始针对涉及18支小盘股的市场操纵行为展开调查。根据证监会在官网发表的这份声明，它已在研究一些新型的短期操作手法，其中包括“建仓拉抬出货”。这是指投资者鼓吹某些股票，以便哄抬它们的价格，然后迅速获利了结。
Despite the reputation for widespread insider trading and other manipulative practices, China’s stock markets still attract investors in droves at the earliest signs of a rally.
尽管背负着内幕交易等操纵行为泛滥的恶名，中国股市仍然可以在刚刚出现复苏迹象之际，就吸引到纷至沓来的投资者。
“Everyone just wants to make some money, so it becomes like gambling,” said a 65-year-old retiree, Mr. Yang, who declined to provide his full name while discussing his investment behavior.
“大家都不过是想赚点钱，这就像赌博一样，”一名65岁的退休人员谈到自己的投资行为时表示。他说自己姓杨，但拒绝透露全名。
“Why do gamblers continue betting even when they are losing money?” he asked while flicking through screens of stock prices and charts on a trading terminal at a Beijing brokerage firm this month. “It’s the same investing in stocks. If you lose money, you want to make up the losses. If you earn money, you want to earn more.”
“赌徒为什么会不断押注，甚至在赔钱的时候也会继续呢？”本月，在北京的一家券商营业厅，他一边翻看交易终端屏幕上的股价和图表，一边反问道。“炒股也是一样。如果亏了钱，你就想弥补损失。如果赚了钱，你就想赚得更多。”
Ordinary Chinese investors are willing to tolerate the risks partly because they have relatively few options for how to manage their savings.
普通的中国投资者之所以愿意承担这样的风险，部分原因在于他们的理财选择相对较少。
This remains the case despite recent pledges of financial overhauls under President Xi Jinping. For example, a new connection between the Shanghai and Hong Kong stock markets that opened last month enables mainland investors, for the first time, to directly buy and sell shares in Hong Kong. But access to the program is restricted to the wealthiest mainland Chinese investors, and the actual trading of Hong Kong stocks has fallen far short of the quotas available.
尽管习近平最近承诺进行金融改革，但情况还是老样子。例如，上海和香港股市上个月新开通了“沪港通”，让内地投资者首次可以直接买卖港股。然而，只有非常富有的内地投资者才有资格参与，而通过“沪港通”进行的实际港股交易规模，大大低于可用的配额。
Other popular investment options are looking less attractive. The Chinese property market is no longer the sure bet it once seemed. Prices for newly constructed housing fell 1 to 9 percent in recent months in all 70 mainland cities tracked by the national government, according to data released this month.
其他一些人气投资选项如今显得吸引力下降了。中国楼市已不再像以前那样看来包赚不赔。本月初公布的数据显示，近几个月，在中央政府追踪的70座大中城市里，新建成的住房价格全都下跌了1%至9%。
And people also appear to be moving money into the stock market from so-called wealth management products, like Yu’e Bao, a hugely popular money market fund controlled by a financial services company affiliated with Alibaba, the e-commerce giant.
人们似乎也在从余额宝这样的理财产品中抽出资金，投入股市。余额宝是一支人气很旺的货币市场基金，由隶属于电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团的一家金融服务公司管理。
Yu’e Bao, introduced in June 2013, is already one of the world’s largest money market funds. But the annual return has fallen to about 4 percent, from nearly 7 percent in January.
余额宝于2013年6月推出，目前已是世界上规模最大的货币市场基金之一。不过，它的年回报率已经从今年1月份的将近7%回落到当下的4%左右。
“From September, I started moving my money, little by little, from wealth management products and Yu’e Bao into the stock market,” said Chen Haowen, 26, an information technology professional in the southern city of Shenzhen.
“从9月开始，我把钱一点一点从理财产品和余额宝转移到了股市，”陈豪文（音）说。他现年26岁，在南方城市深圳从事信息技术产业的工作。
In the most recent quarter, the fund’s assets under management fell for the first time, declining to about 535 billion renminbi at the end of September. That’s down from 574 billion renminbi at the end of June.
最近一个季度，余额宝管理的资产第一次出现下滑，在9月底降至5350亿元人民币。而在6月底时，这个数字为5740亿。