“YES!” wrote Hou Xiaomu, an animal lover, on Weibo, about the news that China’s food and drug authorities are moving toward ending the testing of cosmetics on animals. About 300,000 animals — rabbits, mice and others —  may be used each year in testing cosmetics here, Humane Society International estimates.
YES！”听闻中国的食品药品监管部门将逐步取消化妆品动物试验的消息，动物保护人士侯晓牧在新浪微博上写道。据国际人道协会(Humane Society International)估计，每年可能有大约30万只动物被用于化妆品试验，包括兔子、老鼠等。
Zhang Dan, a co-founder of the Beijing-based Animal Protection Network, was also overjoyed, partly because good news for animals is rare in China, she said.
总部设在北京的动保网(Animal Protection Network)的联合创始人张丹同样大喜过望。她说，这在某种程度上是因为：在中国，跟动物有关的好消息极为罕见。
“We’re very, very happy,” she said in a telephone interview. “To be honest, the news here every day, you open your computer or email and it’s 99.9 percent bad: dogs being killed, cats slaughtered, animal performances in zoos, cruel things. There’s not much good. This kind of news is too, too rare.”
“我们非常非常高兴，”她接受电话采访时表示，“说老实话，每天你打开电脑或者点开电邮，收到的99.9%的消息都很糟糕：狗被打死了，猫被虐杀了，动物在动物园里做表演，都是些残忍的事情。没多少好事。这样的消息简直太、太罕见了。”
What has changed?
什么地方变得不一样了？
In a document dated Nov. 5, the China Food and Drug Administration asked for opinions about proposed regulatory changes, including in the cosmetics approval system, “in order to improve regulatory management and improve consumers’ health rights.” Proposal No. 1, of three, says domestically produced, “non-special use” cosmetics no longer have to meet former requirements of testing on animals, starting from June 1, 2014.
“为了加强监管，保障消费者健康权益”，11月5日，国家食品药品监督管理总局印发了一份函件，就拟议中的监管条例变动征求意见，其中牵涉到对化妆品审批制度的调整。三项提议中的第一项提到：从2014年6月起，国产“非特殊用途”化妆品不必再遵循以往的进行动物实验的要求。
So far, the proposed changes do not apply to imported cosmetics. “Non-special use” cosmetics refers to daily use items such as shampoos and fragrances.
就目前来看，上述拟议中的监管条例变动并不适用于进口化妆品。“非特殊用途”化妆品指的是洗发液、香水等日常使用的化妆品。
“The Great Wall wasn’t built in a day,” said Ms. Zhang. “If we get the breakthrough here then that’s just wonderful.”
“万里长城并非一天建起来的，”张丹说，“只要我们有所突破，就非常棒了。”
“China plans to phase out mandatory cosmetics animal testing,” Humane Society International wrote in a news release.
“中国计划逐步取消对化妆品进行动物试验的强制性规定，”国际人道协会在一份新闻稿中写道。
The practice of testing cosmetics on animals increasingly is putting China behind the international curve, and, perhaps significantly, may hurt exports in the future.
用动物进行化妆品试验的做法，正让中国日益落后于国际潮流，在未来还有可能对出口造成伤害。
In March, European Union regulators announced a ban on the import and sale of cosmetics containing ingredients tested on animals and pledged to push other parts of the world, like China, to accept alternatives.
3月，欧盟监管机构宣布禁止进口和销售所含成分做过动物测试的化妆品；并承诺推动世界其他地区，如中国，接受替代方法。
Ms. Zhang’s group plans to seize the moment and broadcast the news on the streets of Beijing. She said she and other animal rights advocates would stand outside a major shopping mall on Saturday with information and photos of white rabbits used in testing, chanting slogans against the practice and in favor of the government’s plan. They haven’t yet decided where. Pointing out that much of the testing involves dropping substances into the eyes of white rabbits, Ms. Zhang said, “We want people to know about the cruelty, to encourage them to buy brands that don’t test on animals. And we want to encourage the government to implement this quickly.”
张丹所在的团体打算抓住时机，在北京的街头传播这个消息。她说，她和其他一些动物权利倡导者会站在一家大型购物中心门外，展示被用于试验的白兔的信息和图片，同时高呼口号，反对用动物做实验的做法，以支持政府的计划。他们尚未选定活动的地点。谈及很多实验都包括把一些东西滴进白兔眼里的环节，张丹说，“我们想让人们知道这有多残忍，鼓励他们购买不进行动物实验的品牌。我们还想推动政府尽快实施这项计划。”
While the new rules will apply so far only to cosmetics manufactured in China, animal rights advocates are optimistic that they will be expanded.
目前看来，这些新规则只适用于在中国生产的化妆品，但动物权利倡导者乐观地认为，它们的适用范围将会扩大。
“Once the new system has been established, it may be expanded to include imported products and certain ‘special use’ cosmetics as well,” Humane Society International said, citing the China Food and Drug Administration.
国际人道协会援引国家食品药品监督管理总局的话称，“新制度一旦被建立起来，就有可能得到拓展，从而把进口产品和某些‘特殊用途’化妆品囊括进来。”
“This would be a major step toward removing trade barriers between China and the E.U., enabling cruelty-free companies worldwide to sell their products on the Chinese mainland without compromising their ‘no animal testing’ policies,” it said.
该协会表示，“这将是朝着消除中国与欧盟之间的贸易壁垒迈出的关键一步，使得全世界的“零残忍”企业都可以在中国大陆销售其产品，还不用违背自己的‘无动物实验’的方针。”