Li Hejun is founder and chairman of Hanergy Holding, a Chinese company specializing in alternative energy.
李河君是替代能源企业汉能控股集团(Hanergy Holding Group)的创始人和董事局主席。
Q. Do you think you were born to be a leader?
问：你认为自己是天生的领导者吗？
A. Yes. When I was a young child, maybe 7 years old, I liked to lead the neighborhood kids. Then when I was a sophomore at BeijingJiaotong University, I organized over 30 classmates to sell rolls of films outside the school’s cafeteria. What I did was to allocate different work to different classmates based on their character and strength. Some classmates were in charge of purchasing the films, some were in charge of sales, and some others were in charge of cash.
答：对。小时候，可能是7岁吧，我喜欢当邻居小孩的头儿。然后，还在北京交通大学读大二的时候，我就组织了30多个同学在学校食堂门口卖胶卷。我所做的就是根据同学们的性格和能力，给他们分配不同的任务。有人负责买胶卷，有人负责卖，有人管钱。
When I look back at this simple experience, I think it involved some basic rules in team management, for example, setting up a common target, knowing what a team member is good at and allocating the right work, managing the process and sharing the results. What touched me the most was it is never easy to make money, but I also realized the power of teamwork.
当我回望这段简单的经历时，我认为其中包括一些关于团队管理的基本原则。例如，设立一个共同目标，知道每个团队成员的优势，给他们分配正确的工作，对流程进行管理，以及分享成果。我感触最深的是，挣钱从来就不是件容易的事情，但我也认识到了团队合作的力量。
Then when I was about 26 years old, I founded my company and there were only about seven people, but most were my classmates so we were all the same age. I don’t know why they followed me, but I think maybe they believed in me and the mission.
然后，在大约26岁的时候，我创办自己的公司，公司只有大概七人，但大部分都是我的同学，所以我们都是同龄人。我不知道他们为什么会跟随我，但我觉得，或许是因为他们对我和我们的使命有信心。
Q. Did the fact that you were the same age and had known each other in school make managing them and the business easier?
问：你们都是同龄人，在学校的时候就认识了，这会让你的人员管理和运营变得比较容易吗？
A. Managing people requires strong vision and having the confidence to stand by that vision. In some sense starting a company and working with my classmates made this easier because we all knew each other and had a certain level of trust and understanding. But, with that said, I had to be firm and set high expectations for everyone, starting with myself.
答：人员管理工作需要有一个坚定的愿景，以及坚持这种愿景的信心。在某种程度上，与同学一起开公司，一起工作，让管理工作变得简单了一些，因为我们都认识彼此，有一定的信任和理解。但按照刚才说的，我需要非常坚定，对每个人抱有较高的期望，从我自己开始。
Q. What do you remember of those early days?
问：你还记得早期的情况吗？
A. There were a lot of difficulties during the early years, for example in strategic direction and capital. I think the latter is probably one of the biggest challenges for most start-up teams. It took us eight years to construct the Jin’anqiao Hydropower Station, which is the world’s largest hydropower station built by a private firm. At peak times, the daily cash inflow needed was as much as 10 million renminbi [about $1.6 million], which was really a heavy burden for me. It was a challenge beyond the capital itself, actually. It was also about perseverance and whether you made the right decision about the company’s strategy. But in the end, by sticking to our long-term vision and dedicating ourselves to the clean-energy sector, we have been able to weather these challenges and achieve success.
答：最初几年，我们遇到很多困难，比如战略方向和资金。我觉得后者可能是大多数创业团队都会遇到的最大挑战之一。我们花了八年时间建造金安桥水电站，这是世界上由私营企业建造的最大的水电站。最多的时候，每天需要的现金流最多达到1000万元人民币，这对我来说真的是一个非常沉重的负担。实际上，这个挑战不只是资金本身。还与毅力、是否就公司战略做出了正确决定有关。但最终，通过坚持我们的长期愿景，全身心投入清洁能源领域，我们经受住了这些挑战，获得成功。
Q. What makes a leader, in your view?
问：在你看来，领导者需要具备哪些素质？
A. What’s very important is belief in what you’re doing. I have plenty of money to live on and I could just retire and play golf, but I’m fighting for what I believe in, which is to change the world with clean power. And when you have faith in a common cause you can unite everybody around you, which is exciting.
答：非常重要的一点就是，要对你所做的事情有信心。我有足够的钱维持生活，我可以退休、打高尔夫，但我仍然在为我所相信的事情而奋斗，那就是用清洁能源改变世界。此外，当你对一项共同事业有信心时，就能团结身边的每个人，这很令人兴奋。
I think what differentiates Hanergy from some other companies is that common goal. We are neither thinking about making money nor making a name for ourselves, we focus on the ultimate solution of energy use and ensure a better way of life through safer, more convenient and cost-effective access to energy. That’s why we chose thin film over other solar technologies five years ago. A lot of people in the solar-power sector doubted our choice. But we believe the industry in general is moving in our direction.
汉能与其他公司的区别就在于这个共同目标。我们不是在想着赚钱，也没有想着出名，而是专注于能源使用的最终解决方案，并通过更安全、更方便、更具成本效益的能源途径来保障一种更好的生活方式。这就是我们五年前选择薄膜而非其他太阳能技术的原因。太阳能行业的很多人都对我们的选择表示怀疑。但是，我们认为这个行业总体上正在朝我们的方向发展。
Q. What do you do as a leader to inspire your employees?
问：作为领导者，你如何启发你的员工？
A. Your team members need to believe in you; if they do not, you will fail. But to gain that you have to prove to them that you are trustworthy. In Chinese philosophy, the highest form of belief is implicit belief: You don’t have to defend or explain yourself. In a way, people are in awe of you and trust you. But it’s not just about your employees; your clients and customers also have to believe in you and in your belief and confidence in yourself.
答：你的团队成员需要对你有信心；没信心你就没法成功。但是要赢得这种信任，你得向他们证明你是值得信赖的。在中国人的哲学里，信念的最高形式是内在的：你不需要去为自己辩护或解释。某种程度上说，人们是敬畏你、信任你。但不只是你的员工这样；你的客户也要相信你，相信你对自己的信念和信心。
Q. When you started as an entrepreneur, China was very different. How difficult was it in those early days?
问：现在的中国，跟你刚开始办企业的时候已经很不一样了。早年会有些什么困难？
A. Actually, 25 years ago it was easier because there were no competitors. China was just coming out of its reform and opening up, and the idea of entrepreneurship and private business was new and exciting. In those days, there was a sense of excitement and opportunity, as everyone was rushing to get rich. But starting a business is never an easy task. It requires vision, and long-term vision, not short-term treasure seeking. By focusing on China’s transition away from fossil fuels, I’ve been able to form a long-term plan that is sustainable and impactful.
答：其实25年前要比现在轻松，因为没有竞争对手。中国刚刚开始改革开放，企业和私营商业都是新鲜刺激的概念。那时候有种群情激奋、充满机遇的感觉，大家都争先恐后去发财。但是创办一个企业从来都不轻松。它需要远见，长远的设想，不能只是盯着眼前的财富。我把注意力放在中国摆脱石油燃料的转型上，我制定了一个可持续的、有影响力的长期计划。
Q. What would you say is the secret to success in business?
问：你觉得商业成功的秘诀是什么？
A. People, people, people; how you motivate the people, for them to work, is very important.
答：人，人，人；如何促进人去工作是非常重要的。
Q. How do you do that?
问：你是如何做的呢？
A. I think people believe in what we’re doing and I also give them opportunities. I can’t say I’m very hands-on, I think it’s more about giving the overall vision, but not micromanaging. I have to trust the people working with me. Obviously it’s very important to identify the right people that work for you, and I guess that’s what I’m good at.
答：我认为人们相信自己在做的事情，我也会给他们机会。我算不上是很亲力亲为那种人，我觉得更多的是给出一个整体的构想，而不是事无巨细地管理。我必须相信跟我一起工作的人。找到正确的人为你工作显然是很重要的，我想这是我的强项。
Q. How do you identify the right executives?
问：你如何挑选合适的管理人才？
A. Everybody has a different definition of success. For me it’s not about making a lot of money, but whether you’re making a difference. I think the reason we have a lot of great talent coming to us is because we have a vision and people believe in what we’re doing. Based on this common vision, our employees are self-motivators and very passionate about Hanergy’s business. It is also the reason Hanergy is able to retain talented people.
答：每个人对成功的定义不同。对我来说这跟你赚多少钱没关系，而是要看你能带来多少改变。我认为之所以有很多优秀的人才到我们这里来，是因为我们有一种愿景，人们相信我们在做的事情。基于这种共有的愿景，我们的员工都是不需要别人来鼓动的，对汉能的事业充满激情。这也是为什么汉能可以留住有人才。
Q. Now you have over 10,000 people working for you. How has your view on leadership changed?
问：现在有一万多人在为你工作。你对企业领袖的看法有了什么改变？
A. I don’t think I’ve actually changed in any fundamental way; my sense of mission remains, as well as perseverance.
答：我觉得没有什么根本上的改变；我依然有着一种使命感和坚持。