HONG KONG — The total debt of local governments in China has soared to nearly $3 trillion as the country’s addiction to credit-fueled growth has deepened in recent years, according to the findings of a long-awaited report released on Monday by the central auditing agency.
香港——周一，中央审计署出台了人们期待已久的报告。该报告显示，由于中国依赖债务刺激经济增长的痼疾在近年有所加剧，地方政府的债务总额已经增长到了将近3万亿美元（约合18.2万亿人民币）。
In the report, which is likely to further raise concerns about China’s debt problem, the National Audit Office found that local governments across the country had accumulated 17.89 trillion renminbi, or $2.95 trillion, worth of debt obligations as of the end of June. That was an increase of 12.7 percent from December 2012, when local government debt stood at 15.88 trillion renminbi, the report said.
审计署的报告很可能会进一步引发人们对中国债务问题的担忧。审计署在报告中表示，截至6月底，全国各地的地方政府债务已高达17.89万亿人民币。报告称，这一数字比2012年12月的数字增长了12.7%，当时的地方政府债务为15.88万亿人民币。
The June figure also represented a sharp increase of 67 percent from the end of 2010, when an earlier report by the Audit Office estimated local government debt at 10.71 trillion renminbi.
与2010年年末相比，6月的数据急剧增加了67%。根据审计署之前发布的一份报告，当时的地方政府债务估计为10.71万亿人民币。
Other reports have estimated local government debt at significantly higher levels, including one issued last week by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a government-linked research institute, which put the figure at about $3.3 trillion.
根据其他一些报告的估计，地方政府的债务还要高得多。例如，与政府有关的研究机构中国社会科学院于上周发布了一份报告，认为地方政府债务约有3.3万亿美元。
In the five years since the onset of the global financial crisis, local governments at the provincial, municipal, county and township levels across China have gone on a spending spree, loading up on debt to finance a surge of investment in infrastructure, real estate and other projects.
全球金融危机爆发之后的五年当中，中国各省市县镇的地方政府掀起了一股消费热潮，大力进行基础设施、房地产和其他工程投资，由此累积了大量债务。
Analysts have expressed fears that many of these investments may never make enough money to repay the interest and principal on the debt.
分析人士表示，他们担心，许多此类投资可能永远也挣不到足以还本付息的钱。
The structure of much of this borrowing has also raised concerns. With a few exceptions for pilot programs, local governments in China are prohibited from directly taking on loans or issuing bonds. Instead, they have set up thousands of special-purpose financing vehicles that borrow on the government’s behalf to pay for a given project.
许多此类债务的结构也引发了担忧。除了一些不在此限的试点工程以外，中国的地方政府不能直接贷款或者发行债券。于是他们建起了数千个专用的融资平台，代表政府为特定的工程付钱。
Such financing vehicles had confirmed probable and potential debt obligations totaling 6.96 trillion renminbi as of June, according to the Audit Office’s report, accounting for nearly 40 percent of all local government debt.
审计署的报告称，截至6月，这种融资平台已确定负有总额为6.96万亿人民币的可能债务，占地方政府债务总额的将近40%。
Analysts had for months been anticipating the results of the audit office’s survey. As part of an investigation that began in July, the agency said, it deployed 54,000 auditors across the country, who combed through the books of more than 62,000 government departments and institutions and examined 3.4 million debt instruments related to more than 700,000 projects.
数月来，分析人士一直在等待审计署的调查结果。审计署称，作为始于7月份的调查的一部分，该机构在全国部署了5.4万名审计人员，他们仔细梳理了逾6.2万个政府部门及机构的账簿，并检查了涉及超过70万个项目的340万个债务工具。
Including financial obligations on the national level, the audit office report found that China’s total government debt stood at 30.27 trillion renminbi at the end of June, up from 27.77 trillion renminbi in December 2012.
审计署报告显示，算上国家财政债务，6月底的中国政府债务总额达到了30.27万亿元人民币，高于2012年12月份的27.77万亿。
Based on findings of the new report, Lu Ting, a China economist at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, estimated that China’s total public debt stood at 53 percent of gross domestic product. Adding corporate and household obligations lifts the total debt ratio to as much as 190 percent of G.D.P., he estimated.
根据前述新报告的调查结果，美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)研究中国的经济师陆挺估计，中国的公共债务总额相当于国内生产总值的53%。据他估计，加上企业及家庭债务，总负债率达到了国内生产总值的190%。
China’s overall debt ratio “is neither exceptionally high nor low,” Mr. Lu wrote on Monday in a research note. Still, he said he was concerned that for the last two years China has been adding debt faster than its economy has been growing.
周一，陆挺在一份研究报告中写道，中国的总负债率“不是特别高，也不是特别低”。但他表示担心，因为中国过去两年的债务增加速度超过了经济增长速度。
“We believe the markets and the Chinese government should be alarmed by the rapidly rising leverage, but we do not believe China is on the brink of a debt crisis, especially if the new leaders can take decisive measures to arrest its rising leverage,” Mr. Lu wrote.
陆挺写道，“我们认为，市场和中国政府应该警惕快速上升的压力，但我们觉得中国并没有走到债务危机的边缘，如果新任领导人能够采取果断措施遏制压力上升，情况还会更好。”
Under President Xi Jinping, the Chinese leadership has promised to deliver reforms that will be the country’s most ambitious financial overhauls in decades. Mr. Xi will head a group that will steer economic and social reforms, Xinhua, the state-run news agency, said on Monday.
在国家主席习近平的领导下，中国领导人承诺实施一些改革，这将是中国数十年来最雄心勃勃的金融改革。周一，官方新闻机构新华社报道称，习近平将出任引导经济及社会改革的小组的组长。