SANYA, China — When Stephan Stoss arrived here six years ago, little more than lush foliage lined the roads leading to the 492-room Hilton where he is now general manager.
中国三亚――史德龙(Stephan Stoss)六年前来到这里的时候，通往希尔顿酒店(Hilton)的道路两侧只有繁茂的植被；现在他是这座有492个房间的酒店总经理。
Few other international hotels had been built along the town’s picturesque bays. Mr. Stoss and his colleagues from those that were operating would meet regularly for dinner around a small table.
当时在这座城市风景如画的海湾，只有寥寥无几的几座国际酒店。史德龙与来自其他酒店的同行定期碰面，他们围着一张小桌子共进晚餐。
Today, they would need a banquet hall. St. Regis and MGM hotels have joined the Hilton on a stretch of white-sand beach on Yalong Bay. Elsewhere in Sanya, Hyatt, Westin, Shangri-La and other prominent chains have built properties. Hilton alone has three hotels in town.
如今他们要聚会的话，得需要一个宴会厅。继希尔顿之后，瑞吉(St. Regis)和米高梅(MGM)也在亚龙湾的洁白沙滩上建起了酒店。在三亚其他地方，凯悦(Hyatt)、威斯汀(Westin)、香格里拉(Shangri-La)等著名连锁品牌也建起了自己的酒店。光是希尔顿在该市就有三家酒店。
Those once-quiet streets around the Hilton are clogged with tour buses. Upscale apartment blocks and gated communities of multimillion-dollar villas have replaced the wild brush.
希尔顿附近的街道曾经非常安静，如今塞满了旅游巴士。路边野树林已被高档公寓楼和带有门禁的别墅区所取代，那些别墅动辄需要数百万美元。
“The speed things go here, you don’t have that in any other destination,” said Mr. Stoss, 54. “Only China.”
“这里的发展速度很快，其他任何目的地都看不到这种情况，”54岁的史德龙说。“只有中国。”
Against the backdrop of China’s slowing economy, tourism is a bright spot. Many Chinese families are still getting wealthier, and spending that extra income on travel.
在中国经济增长放缓的大背景之下，旅游业依然是亮点。许多中国家庭仍在变得更加富裕，他们把增加的收入用于旅游。
Groups of Chinese tourists are already a common sight, from Times Square to Buckingham Palace to Angkor Wat. But a bigger part of the travel story is the boom within China. Last year, Chinese tourists took four billion domestic trips, twice as many as in 2010 and significantly more than the 122 million journeys abroad, according to government statistics.
从时报广场到白金汉宫，再到吴哥窟，成群结队的中国游客已经是常见的景象。但中国境内游的繁荣，才是旅游业发展的重头戏。根据政府的统计数据，去年，中国的境内游达到40亿人次，比2010年增长了一倍，远远多于1.22亿人次的境外游数量。
The government has been encouraging Chinese families to pack up and go. As the economy’s traditional export and investment engines have been slowed by feeble demand and excess factories, policy makers are trying to shift toward services and consumption.
政府鼓励中国家庭去旅游。受需求疲软与产能过剩的影响，传统的出口与投资引擎放慢了速度，决策者试图把经济重心转移到服务业与消费上来。
Tourism is central to that transition. The government hopes China’s swelling middle class will spend more on leisure and entertainment to create jobs in hotels, airlines and restaurants.
旅游业是这一转变的核心。政府希望中国日益壮大的中产阶级能在休闲娱乐上花更多钱，在酒店、航空公司和餐饮领域创造更多就业机会。
“Here it is becoming more important for people to have quality spare time,” Mr. Stoss said, “and they are willing to pay for that.”
“人们更加重视闲暇时光的质量，”史德龙说，“而且他们愿意为了这个花钱。”
Beijing is counting on travelers like Leng Zhichen, 28. Mr. Leng, an entrepreneur from Qingdao in Shandong Province on the east coast of China, travels with his wife and 2-year-old daughter nearly every month, often for long weekends and usually within China.
28岁的冷志晨（Leng Zhichen，音）就是政府期待的那种旅游者。他是中国东部沿海山东省青岛市的一个企业家，几乎每个月都会带着妻子和两岁的女儿出游，经常是利用周末时间，而且往往是境内游。
“I like to spend more time with my child, and have her experience different places,” Mr. Leng said as he relaxed in the Hilton’s lobby.
“我想花更多时间陪孩子，让她体验不同的地方，”冷先生在希尔顿酒店大堂休息时说。
Despite the economic downturn, his income is surging — up tenfold in three years to 3 million renminbi ($450,000). With more disposable cash, he spends several times as much on hotels and meals as he previously had.
尽管经济出现衰退，他的收入仍在上涨——三年增加了十倍，达到了300万元人民币。有了更多可支配收入，他在酒店和吃饭上花的钱比从前多了好几倍。
“My travel has changed since I had a family,” said Mr. Leng, who runs his own jewelry brand. “I stay in nicer hotels and eat better-quality food.”
“有了家庭以后，我的旅行方式改变了，”拥有自创珠宝品牌的冷先生说。“我会住更好的酒店，吃质量更好的食物。”
Hainan, the island province that includes Sanya, is at the center of the government’s push.
海南——就是三亚所在的那个岛屿省份，是政府推动旅游业发展的中心地带。
In 2009, the national government designated Hainan for development as an “international tourism island” and unleashed a torrent of investment to support its travel industry. A high-speed railway that zips around the island was completed last year, and a new airport for Sanya is on the way. Private investors poured money into expensive golf courses, luxurious hotels and rows of vacation homes.
2009年，中国政府确定把海南建设成为“国际旅游岛”，并且通过一连串投资扶植那里的旅游业。去年，海南落成了高速环岛铁路，三亚正在建设一座新机场。私人投资者们将资金大量注入高档高尔夫球场、豪华酒店和一排排的度假屋。
On Sanya’s beaches, crowded with frolicking children, worries about China’s economy seem a distant mirage. Last year, tourist arrivals in Sanya neared 15 million, almost 70 percent more than five years earlier. Ninety-eight percent of the visitors were Chinese.
三亚的海滩上聚集着许多嬉闹的孩子，在这里，对中国经济的忧虑如同遥远的海市蜃楼。去年有将近1500万游客来到三亚，比五年前高出将近70%。其中98%的游客都是中国人。
Revenue from tourist businesses more than doubled over that time, to 30 billion renminbi ($4.5 billion) last year. It helped drive Hainan’s overall growth, with the province’s economy up 7.8 percent in 2015, substantially faster than the 6.9 percent nationally.
旅游业同期创造的收入则增长了一倍还多，去年达到了300亿人民币。这有助于促进海南的整体发展，2015年，该省的经济发展增长了7.8%，远远高于全国6.9%的水平。
But not all is perfect in paradise. When the government selects one sector for support — whether steel or solar panels — it often helps contribute to undue exuberance among investors, resulting in wasteful projects that depress the economy.
但是天下没有十全十美的事情。当政府选择扶持一个经济部门的同时——不管是钢铁还是太阳能——通常会引发投资过热，导致出现不必要的项目，进而阻碍经济发展。
In Hainan, the excitement over tourism has left the island littered with more golf clubs, apartment buildings and hotel suites than even the rising tide of travelers can fill. The number of hotel rooms in Sanya has increased 40 percent in only five years.
在海南，围绕着旅游业的兴奋为海南带来了更多的高尔夫俱乐部、公寓楼和酒店套房，甚至不断增长的游客大潮也没能将它们填满。三亚的酒店房间数量在五年间就增长了40%。
The boom in hotels has created such cutthroat competition that room rates have dropped about 30 percent in three years, Mr. Stoss of Hilton estimated. “It is becoming harder and harder” to maintain revenue, he admitted.
这股酒店大潮带来了异常激烈的竞争，希尔顿的史德龙估计，酒店房价在三年里下跌了30%左右。他承认，维持利润变得“越来越难”。
Too many golf courses are chasing too few golfers as well. Lured by the increasing tourist traffic, investors opened eight golf courses in Sanya, many of them with luxurious clubhouses catering to rich Chinese.
由于这里的高尔夫球场太多，而打球的人太少，球场间的竞争也非常激烈。受到游客增加的诱惑，投资者在三亚兴建了八座高尔夫球场，其中好几座都带有豪华的俱乐部会所，用来招待富有的中国人。
The high season for golf, during the cooler winters, is only about four months long, leaving the courses scrambling for customers the rest of the year.
高尔夫球在这里的旺季是寒冷的冬日，一年中只有四个月的时间，其余时间里，这些球场就只能拼命争抢客户。
“Most golf courses are losing money,” said Dai Yuying, general manager of Sanya Luhuitou Golf Club, adding that his tournament-quality course is managing to break even. “The number of people who play golf has decreased a lot.”
三亚鹿回头高尔夫球会的总经理戴玉应说，“大多数高尔夫球场都在赔钱。”他又补充，自己的球场拥有举办赛事的质量，却也只能勉强做到收支平衡。“打高尔夫球的人减少了很多。”
Too many vacation homes are roasting empty in the Sanya sun. The local property association estimated that it would require nearly four years to find buyers for all of the unsold residences on the market.
太多空置的度假屋曝晒在三亚的烈日之下。据当地的房地产协会估计，把市场上所有尚未售出的住宅卖出去，需要近四年时间。
While the pace of expansion has slowed somewhat, developers are still building. Lu Keyong, marketing director of the Yalong Bay Development Company, said his firm remained convinced that more tourists would bring more home buyers. The company is building more apartments near Sanya’s airport.
尽管发展的步伐在放慢，开发商还是在不断兴建新项目。亚龙湾开发股份有限公司的营销部经理卢克勇说，他的公司一直相信，随着游客的增长，也会有更多人想在这里安家。公司目前正在三亚机场附近兴建更多公寓。
“The need for accommodation is a necessity for people,” Mr. Lu said.
“住房是人们生活中必不可少的需求，”卢先生说道。
The government is prodding investors to do more than throw up hotels and apartments. Officials said it had become harder to get state permission to build hotels.
政府目前正在敦促开发商不要只顾着兴建酒店和公寓。官员们表示，兴建酒店要想得到国家批准变得越来越难了。
Instead, they are encouraging investment in projects with a wider range of entertainment options. One hotel complex, Kerzner International’s $1.6 billion Atlantis, will have water slides, exhibits of marine life, and event halls when it opens in 2017.
相反，他们鼓励投资者投资具有更多娱乐选择的项目。柯兹纳国际(Kerzner International)投资16亿美元兴建的综合性娱乐度假酒店亚特兰蒂斯(Atlantis)将于2017年开放，届时酒店内会有滑水道和海洋生物展，以及各种活动大厅。
“There is only one thing I worry about in the long term,” said Zhao Kuan, secretary general of the Sanya Tourism Association, a business group. “We need to diversify the attractions.”
“从长远看来，我只担心一件事，”三亚市旅游协会秘书长赵宽说道（该协会是一个商业机构）。“我们需要让吸引力多样化。”
The jammed restaurant at the Grand Metropark Resort near the Hilton offers reason for optimism.
离希尔顿酒店不远的维景国际度假酒店(Grand Metropark Resort)内爆满的餐厅，让人看到了乐观的理由。
At one table, Chen Hong, 32, slurped up a morning bowl of noodles with her sister, sister-in-law, parents, nephew and 5-year-old son. Ms. Chen, from Xuzhou in eastern China, was on her first trip to Sanya, and said she wanted to take a lot more vacations like this one.
32岁的陈红（Chen Hong，音）正津津有味地吃着一碗面，一同吃早饭的还有她的姐姐（或妹妹）一家、父母、外甥与五岁的儿子。陈女士来自中国东部的徐州，这是她第一次来三亚，她说想多一些这样的度假。
Her husband’s income as a civil servant has increased in recent years, and so has their interest in travel. They aim to take one long vacation a year, especially since they see it as important for their child.
她的丈夫是公务员，近年来收入有了增长，两人对旅游的兴趣也随之增加。他们计划每年做一次长途旅游，特别是他们觉得这对于儿子来说很重要。
“I think travel should broaden his horizons,” she said.
“我觉得旅游能让他开阔视野，”她说。