GUANGZHOU, China — With as much floor space as nearly five Empire State buildings, the sprawling Canton Fair, which opened in Guangzhou on Tuesday morning, is a monument to China’s industrial versatility and export prowess.
中国广州——规模庞大的广交会周二早上在广州开幕，会场面积几乎相当于5个帝国大厦，突显中国工业实力的广度和出口竞争力。
But although the exhibits still offer products as varied as wheelbarrows and Segway knockoffs, the autumn session of the fair hints at the broader malaise now afflicting exporters across China and other East Asian nations.
但是，虽然这次交易会上依然展示多种产品，从独轮手推车到仿照Segway的电动代步车，但这场秋季交易会反映出当前笼罩中国和其他东亚国家出口商的整体不安情绪。
For the first time in recent record-keeping, the number of companies with exhibits has declined in both the spring and autumn sessions of the 56-year-old Canton Fair compared with a year earlier. Even during the global financial crisis in 2009, the number of exhibitors dropped in the spring but rebounded in the autumn.
已有56年历史的春季和秋季广交会今年参展企业均低于去年，这是近年首次出现这样的情况。即便是在2009年全球金融危机期间，参展商数量在春季交易会有所下降，但在秋季就已反弹。
Buyers from all over the world still milled through the cavernous exhibition halls on Tuesday, but they appeared less numerous than during previous fairs.
周二，来自世界各地的买家依然在洞穴状的展厅里进进出出，但数量似乎比往届要少。
“It’s slower than this time last year — today is opening day, and there are not many people here,” said Ding Jiajun, the general manager of the Laizhou Toptool & Machinery Company, a 50-employee manufacturer of wrenches and vises in Yantian, in the eastern province of Shandong.
来自山东省烟台市的莱州嘉兴机械有限公司的总经理丁家俊说，“生意不如去年这个时候，今天开幕，来的人不是很多。”该公司有50名雇员，主要生产扳手和台钳。
China announced on Saturday that its exports dropped 0.25 percent in September in dollar terms compared with a year ago, below economists’ expectations of 6 percent growth and far below the double-digit growth that China enjoyed for most of the past decade. In terms of the Chinese renminbi, which is what counts for Chinese exporters and overall Chinese economic output, exports fell a startling 3.6 percent last month.
中国在周六公布，以美元计算，9月份中国的出口比去年同期下降0.25%，低于经济学家预测的6%增长，远低于过去十年大部分时间中国的两位数增速。若用人民币计算（对中国出口企业乃至整体经济产出而言，这个数据才是重要的），上月出口令人震惊地下降3.6%。
Nor is China alone in its difficulties. South Korea and Taiwan have already announced their export figures for September and fared even worse. They fell 1.5 percent and 7 percent respectively in dollar terms from a year ago; Japan has not yet released its figures but has also been struggling, although recent weakness in the yen may have helped its exports.
遭遇困难的不仅是中国。韩国和台湾的9月份出口数据更加糟糕。以美元计算，它们的出口同比分别下降1.5%和7%；日本尚未公布9月出口数据，但该国近期也在挣扎，尽管最近日元疲软可能有利于出口。
“Exports are what powered Asia to prosperity,” Frederic Neumann, the co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC, wrote in a research note on Tuesday. “But the engine is showing signs of serious defects.”
汇丰(HSBC)亚洲经济研究联合主管范力民(Frederic Neumann)周二在一篇研究报告中写道，“亚洲繁荣的推动力来自出口，但现在这个发动机正显示出严重缺陷的迹象。”
The export environment for Asian exporters may grow worse before it gets better. A growing concern for Asian exporters lies in what effect the fiscal crisis in Washington might have on the American economy, and therefore on demand for Asian goods.
对亚洲出口商来说，出口环境在好转之前或许会变得更糟。他们越来越担心的一个问题是，华盛顿财政危机可能给美国经济及其对亚洲产品的需求造成什么影响？
“I am worried about what is going on in the United States right now with the looming debt crisis,” said Li Shenggao, the sales manager at the Cangnan Keegao Arts & Crafts Factory, a manufacturer of gift bags and labels based in Wenzhou, China. “If no solution is found, sooner or later the U.S. economy will slow down, which will weaken the U.S. dollar and in turn reduce the competitiveness of our products.”
温州苍南Keegao手工艺制品厂销售经理李升高（音译）说，“我很担心美国现在的形势以及迫在眉睫的债务危机。如果找不到解决办法，美国经济迟早要放缓，这会引起美元贬值，进而削弱我们的产品的竞争力。”这家制造企业生产礼品袋和标签。
The American fiscal difficulties come as a combination of strengthening currencies and spiraling costs is eroding the competitiveness of Asian manufacturers, particularly in China, the world’s largest exporter.
美国经历财政困难之时，货币升值以及成本扶摇直上正在侵蚀亚洲制造商的竞争力，特别是在世界最大出口国中国。
The slow but steady rise of China’s renminbi against the dollar, although not fast enough for many American politicians at about 3 percent a year, is another pervasive concern among Chinese exporters. Mr. Li said his costs for plastic and other raw materials were also rising 5 percent to 10 percent a year, while a shortage of blue-collar labor was driving up workers’ wages 15 percent a year.
另一个令中国出口商普遍感到担心的事情是，人民币兑美元正在缓慢而稳步地升值，尽管每年大约3%的升幅对很多美国政界人士来说还不够快。李升高说，他购买塑料和其他原材料的成本也在以每年5%-10%的速度增长，而同时由于缺乏蓝领劳动力，工人的工资正以每年15%的速度增长。
“Skilled workers with some technological know-how are still hard to come by,” Mr. Li said.
李升高说，“有一定技术的熟练工人仍然难找。”
Mr. Ding at Laizhou Toptool, who sat in a booth with walls covered with tools in a rainbow of hues, said the cost of steel for his products had finally dipped this year. But wages in his area are climbing more than 20 percent a year as more young people go to college instead of factories, and prefer white-collar jobs when they graduate.
莱州嘉兴公司的丁家俊坐在一个展位隔间，墙上贴着各种工具。他说，该公司产品所用的钢材价格今年终于降了下来。但当地工人的工资正以每年20%的速度增长，因为更多年轻人选择进入高校，毕业后找白领工作，而不是进工厂打工。
Nicholas Kwan, the research director at the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, an advisory group created by the Hong Kong government that works closely with local chambers of commerce, said the Pearl River Delta region around Hong Kong and Guangzhou would continue to lose low-end manufacturers like garment producers to even lower-wage places like Bangladesh. But he predicted they would retain higher value-added manufacturers, like those in the electronics sector.
香港贸易发展局(Hong Kong Trade Development Council)是香港政府成立、与各地商会密切合作的顾问组织，其研究总监关家明 (Nicholas Kwan)说，在香港和广州周围的珠三角地区，服装生产厂等低端制造企业将继续流失到孟加拉国等工资更低的地方。但他预计，珠三角地区将留住附加值较高的制造商，比如电子行业的工厂。
“Those who are constantly focused on the low end of the market will keep on moving,” he said, noting that garment factories had moved to China during the past three decades because previously low wages in Hong Kong and Taiwan had risen and were now moving again.
“那些始终聚焦于低端市场的企业将继续搬迁，”他表示。他提到，过去30年期间因香港和台湾工资上涨而搬迁至中国的服装厂，正投入又一波转移。
Louis Kuijs, an economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland, said Chinese exports in September had been slightly suppressed by a statistical quirk. China has cracked down in recent months on the practice among exporters of overstating invoices so as to bypass currency controls and bring additional money into China, speculating on further appreciation of the renminbi.
苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)经济学家高路易(Louis Kuijs)说，9月份中国出口受到一个统计问题的轻微压抑。最近几个月，中国在打击出口商夸大发票金额以绕开货币管制，让更多资金流入中国（原因是人们猜测人民币会进一步升值）的做法。
If the effects of excessive invoices are excluded, Chinese exports may have grown 1.7 percent in September from a year earlier, when measured in dollars, instead of shrinking 0.25 percent. But it still means exports shrank in renminbi terms.
若剔除夸大发票金额的影响，以美元计算，9月份中国出口或许同比增长1.7%，而非降低0.25%。但若以人民币计算，9月份中国出口同比仍有所下降。
The renminbi has climbed 2.4 percent against the dollar so far this year and 3.3 percent since the end of September last year. China is trying to foster increased consumer spending to offset slower exports; it has had some success, but not enough to keep overall growth from slowing.
今年迄今，人民币兑美元升值了2.4%，从去年9月末到现在升值了3.3%。中国正在鼓励更多消费支出来抵消出口放缓；目前已取得一些效果，但还不足以遏制整体增长的放缓。
A bigger export problem for China and its neighbors these days is that demand is now drying up in emerging markets. These markets, increasingly important for China in particular as the United States and European economies have slowed, have seen weaker economic growth in recent months as investors shifted money to industrialized countries in anticipation of higher interest rates.
中国及其邻国如今面临的一个更大的出口问题是，新兴市场的需求正在枯竭。随着美国和欧洲经济减慢，这些对中国越来越重要的市场最近几个月经济增长疲软，原因是投资者将资金转移到工业化国家，预计后者将提高利率。
China’s exports to the member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations rose 9.8 percent last month compared with a year earlier, an anemic pace versus the 30-plus percent growth rates in previous months.
中国对东盟国家的出口上月同比增长9.8%，与此前几个月超过30%的增速相比缺乏活力。
The result has been even more ferocious competition among Chinese exporters.
结果是中国出口商之间的竞争变得更加激烈。
“The profits of the factory are very, very thin,” said Mr. Ding of Laizhou Toptool, holding his left thumb and forefinger a hair’s breadth apart.
莱州嘉兴公司的丁家俊把左手拇指和食指捏得很近说，“工厂的利润很薄很薄。”