For better or worse, a small group of Chinese movie investors over the last few weeks crossed one of the last cultural barriers to full membership in the Hollywood club: They backed a bloody horror flick.
不管怎样，在过去几周里，一小群中国电影投资者跨越最后几道文化障碍，成为好莱坞俱乐部的正式会员：他们资助了一部血腥的恐怖片。
The indie film, called “Abattoir,” is being shot in Louisiana by the director Darren Lynn Bousman, whose credits include “Saw II,” “Saw III” and “Saw IV.”
这部独立电影名为《屠宰场》(Abattoir)，目前正在路易斯安那州拍摄，导演是达伦·林恩·布斯曼(Darren Lynn Bousman)，他拍摄过《电锯惊魂2》(Saw II)、《电锯惊魂3》(Saw III)和《电锯惊魂4》(Saw IV)。
Typically, China’s film censors are wary of such films. In fact, they have already suggested that “Abattoir,” which is based on a graphic novel created by Mr. Bousman that tells the story of a house constructed from rooms in which past murders have occurred, would not be greeted warmly in China.
中国电影审查当局通常十分警惕这种电影。实际上，他们已经表示，《屠宰场》不会在中国受到热情欢迎。该片是根据布斯曼一本生动的小说改编的，讲述的是一幢房子的原址几个房间里曾发生凶杀案的故事。
“It would require a lot of changes,” said Robert Cain, an executive producer of the film. But, Mr. Cain said, the likelihood of a closed door in China has not dampened the enthusiasm of investors led by Kevin Niu, the scion of a well-connected Chinese family and a fellow executive producer of “Abattoir.”
“我们需要对它进行很多改造，”该片的执行制片人罗伯特·凯恩(Robert Cain)说。但是凯恩也说，中国有可能拒绝上映该片并没有打消投资者们的热情。他们的领头人是牛楠(Kevin Niu)，他来自中国一个很有势力的家族，是《屠宰场》的一位执行制片人。
Horror is not an exclusively American taste. Mr. Bousman’s last two “Saw” films actually did slightly more business abroad than in the United States. But the genre plays unevenly in foreign territory, and, according to figures provided by Rentrak’s box-office reporting service, only one horror-heavy film — “Resident Evil: Afterlife,” in 2010 — cracked the annual global Top 20 list in any of the past five years.
恐怖片不是只有美国人喜欢。布斯曼的上两部《电锯惊魂》实际上在国外的收入略微高于在美国本土。不过这种类型片在国外的表现参差不齐。据兰特拉克票房统计公司(Rentrak)提供的数据，在过去五年里，只有一部恐怖片挤入年度全球20大卖座影片之列——2010年的《生化危机4》(Resident Evil: Afterlife)。
Blood, guts and a good haunt, however, are not to be ignored by producers who intend to turn a profit on a manageable budget — in this case, under $5 million. (Distribution rights to “Abattoir,” which stars Jessica Lowndes and Joe Anderson, among others, were on sale at the American Film Market in Santa Monica, Calif., last week.)
不过，鲜血、内脏和鬼屋没有被制片人们忽视，他们想要通过不算太高的成本赚取利润。该片的成本不到500万美元（《屠宰场》的发行权上周在加州圣塔莫尼卡市的美国电影市场出售。该片的主演是杰西卡·朗兹[Jessica Lowndes]和乔·安德森[Joe Anderson]）。