South Korea’s foreign minister warned on Wednesday that China’s recent attempt to police the sky over a vast area in the East China Sea was worsening tensions in a region already strained by territorial disputes.
周三，韩国外长警告称，在一个本就因领土争端而局势紧张的地区，中国最近试图管辖东海一片广阔海域上方空域的举动正在让局势进一步恶化。
China’s so-called air defense identification zone covered not only a group of islands that both Japan and China claim but also a submerged rock that both China and South Korea want to control.
中国所谓的防空识别区不仅覆盖了一个中日两国均声称拥有主权的群岛，还覆盖了中国和韩国都想控制的一处暗礁。
The dispute over the submerged rock has never been as fierce as China’s dispute over the islands with Japan, but the new air patrol zone drew strong protests from South Korea, threatening to heighten tensions with Beijing. Seoul said it would not recognize the Chinese zone and would maintain its jurisdictional right to waters around the rock, which is called Ieodo in Korea and Suyan Rock in China.
同前述岛屿在中日之间引发的争端相比，这处暗礁引发的争端一向没有那么激烈，尽管如此，新划设的防空识别区还是引发了韩国的强烈抗议，有可能造成中韩之间的紧张关系。首尔方面表示不会承认中国划定的防空识别区，并将维护暗礁附近水域的管辖权。这处暗礁在韩国被叫做离于岛，在中国被称作苏岩礁。
“The issue of the air defense identification zone is making the already difficult regional situations even more difficult to deal with,” Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se of South Korea said during a defense forum in Seoul on Wednesday.
“防空识别区的问题让本已艰难的地区局势更难应对，”韩国外长尹炳世(Yun Byung-se)周三在首尔的一个防务论坛上说。
“We see competition and conflict in the region deepening,” he said. “Things can take a dramatic turn for the worse if territorial conflicts and historical issues are merged with nationalism.”
“我们发现，这一地区的竞争和冲突正在加剧，”他说，“如果领土冲突和历史问题与民族主义合流，事情可能会急剧恶化。”
Mr. Yun’s comment came a day after two long-range American B-52 bombers flew through the contested airspace, a move seen as a warning by Washington that it would defy what it considered China’s provocative attempt to expand control over airspace in the region.
在尹炳世做出上述评论的前一天，美国的两架B-52远程轰炸机飞越了前述争议空域。此举被视作华盛顿发出的警告，表明华盛顿将中国扩大对该地区空域控制的尝试视为挑衅行为，并会对其发起挑战。
In recent years, tensions over territorial disputes have grown in the region, a reflection of how contesting claims were never settled satisfactorily at the end of World War II in 1945.
近年来，该地区由领土争端引发的紧张局势有所恶化，这也反映了在1945年二战结束时，各方相互冲突的主权要求从未得到令人满意的解决。
Recently, such conflicts tended to keep South Korea drifting further away from Japan as Seoul appeared to be cozying up more to Beijing. Reflecting that trend, President Park Geun-hye has twice met her Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, but has not met with Shinzo Abe, the Japanese prime minister.
最近，首尔似乎更倾向于迎合北京，此类冲突也一直有进一步疏远韩日关系的趋势。这种趋势的体现之一是，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)已经和中国领导人习近平举行了两次会晤，却未和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)会面。
Seoul and Tokyo, two close American allies, have locked horns over a separate set of islands and over Japan’s treatment of Korean sex slaves for its army during World War II. South Korea and China, both of which suffered from Japanese colonial aggression, recently together angered Tokyo by agreeing to build a monument in China for a Korean nationalist hero who assassinated a former Japanese prime minister in 1909.
韩国和日本都是美国的亲密盟友，两国纷争不断，起因是另一组岛屿引发的争端，以及日本在第二次世界大战(World War II)期间强迫韩国慰安妇为日军服务的暴行。中韩两国都曾蒙受日本殖民侵略的伤害，近日一致同意在中国为一名于1909年刺杀前日本首相的韩国民族主义者立碑，由此激怒了日本。
But China’s declaration of the expanded air control zone highlighted a potentially volatile dispute between China and South Korea, since it covered Ieodo, a submerged reef south of Jeju, an island off the south coast of South Korea. Ieodo, which South Korea says it effectively controls, is believed to be surrounded by natural gas and minerals deposits.
不过，中国宣布扩大空中控制区的行动突显了中韩之间出现动荡争端的可能性，原因是控制区覆盖了韩国济州岛以南的暗礁离于岛。离于岛周围据信环绕着天然气田和矿床，韩国称该岛处于己方有效控制之下。
Despite fierce protests from environmentalists, South Korea is building a $970 million naval base in Jeju, a home for 20 warships, including submarines, that the navy says will protect shipping lanes in the East China Sea for South Korea’s oil-dependent, export-driven economy as well as enabling it to respond quickly to any dispute with China over the rock.
韩国不顾环保人士的强烈抗议，正在济州岛营建一座耗资9.7亿美元的海军基地，内有包括潜艇在内的20艘军舰。韩国海军表示，基地会为韩国依赖石油的出口驱动型经济保障东海航道，使韩国能迅速应对中韩因离于岛产生的任何冲突。
Under international maritime law, countries cannot claim a submerged rock as territory but can claim the right to control and use waters and natural resources around it. Both China and South Korea claim such rights over the reef. Currently, the Korea Hydrographic and Oceanographic Administration manages a research station built on the rock.
根据国际海洋法，各国不能对暗礁提出领土主权主张，但可以对暗礁附近的水域和自然资源主张控制权和使用权。中韩都对争议暗礁提出了此类权利主张。目前，韩国水文和海洋测量部(Korea Hydrographic and Oceanographic Administration)管理着一个建在暗礁上的研究站。
“The issue over Ieodo is not a territorial one but a matter of the exclusive economic zone, as it is not an island but a submerged rock,” Cho Tai-young, a spokesman for the South Korean Foreign Ministry, said on Wednesday.
韩国外交部发言人赵泰永(Cho Tai-young)周三指出，“离于岛问题不是领土问题，而是专属经济区的问题，因为它不是一座岛，而是一片暗礁。”