BEIJING — China announced on Wednesday that it would increase its military budget for 2014 to almost $132 billion, a 12.2 percent rise over last year. The rapid growth in defense spending is another sign of the country’s goal of becoming a dominant military presence in the Pacific, with a navy able to project power across the region.
北京——中国周三宣布，2014年的军费预算将增至8082亿元（约合1320亿美元），较上年增长12.2%。中国意在成为太平洋地区占主导地位的军事存在，打造一支可以将力量投射至整个地区的海军，国防支出的增长是这种追求的又一个表现。
The rate of growth in spending is greater than that of recent years. In 2013, China’s defense budget increased by 10.7 percent over the previous year. The country’s military spending is the second largest in the world, behind that of the United States.
这是近几年来中国军事支出的最大增幅。2013年，中国的国防预算较上年仅增长了10.7%。中国的军费支出在全世界居第二位，仅次于美国。
The buildup of the People’s Liberation Army, which also includes navy and air force branches, is considered by many analysts to be consistent with the size of China’s economy — the second largest in the world — and its global political influence. Nevertheless, the military expansion is being closely watched by other nations in the region and by the United States, the supreme military power in the Pacific.
许多分析人士认为，中国人民解放军（其中也包括了海军和空军）的壮大与中国的经济规模和全球政治影响力是一致的。中国是世界第二大经济体。尽管如此，该地区其他国家以及太平洋地区的超级军事大国美国仍在密切关注中国军事实力的扩张。
American officials have expressed growing concerns over diplomatic tensions in East Asia and Southeast Asia, much of it related to regional anxieties over China’s military rise and its assertion of sovereignty over rocks, reefs, islands, fisheries and sea lanes in the area. The United States has said it does not take sides in the territorial disputes, but it asserts it will maintain freedom of navigation.
曾有美国官员表示对东亚和东南亚地区紧张外交关系的担忧日益加剧。该地区的紧张局势很大一部分来自该地区对中国军事实力崛起、以及中国对该地区礁石、暗礁、岛屿、捕鱼权和海上通道的主权主张的忧虑。美国已经表示在领土争议问题上不站队，但要保持自由航行的权利。
Foreign military analysts say China’s actual annual military spending is higher than the official figure. IHS Jane’s, a defense industry consulting and analysis company, estimated that China would spend $148 billion this year, but such estimates can vary widely. The unofficial estimate is still much less than the military budget of the United States, which is officially $526.8 billion for fiscal year 2014.
外国军事分析人士说，中国的实际年度军费开支要高于官方数据。防务咨询和分析公司简氏信息集团(IHS Jane’s)估计，中国今年的军费支出为1480亿美元，但此类估计可能有很大出入。对中国军费的非官方估计数据仍然远远低于美国的军费预算，2014财年美国军费预算的官方数据为5268亿美元。
Dennis J. Blasko, a former military attaché at the American Embassy in Beijing and a retired Army officer, said the 2014 Chinese military budget “won’t break the bank, but it says to the troops, ‘Thank you for your service, you are important to us, we support you.'”
前美国驻北京武官、退休军官卜思高(Dennis J. Blasko)说，2014年的中国军费预算“不会让中国倾家荡产，但对军队传递了这样的信息，‘感谢你们的服务，你们对我们来说很重要，我们要支持你们。’”
“A significant portion likely will be used for more pay raises,” he added. “You may recall hearing some talk about how P.L.A. officers should be paid more than civil servants.”
他补充说，“相当一部分可能会用来给军人涨工资。你可能还记得有人说过，解放军军官的工资应该高于公务员。”
A major portion of the increase will go to “better, more realistic training,” Mr. Blasko added.
卜思高还说，增加的军费有一大部分将会用于“更好、更实际的训练”。
“The navy will also continue to train more at greater distances from China, which is more expensive than training in local waters.”
“中国海军也将继续在更加远离中国大陆的地方开展更多训练，这比在近海的训练更昂贵。”
China announced the 2014 military budget on the first day of the National People’s Congress, an annual meeting of a legislature whose purpose is to formally approve policy already made by Communist Party leaders.
中国在全国人大会议的第一天就宣布了军费开支。全国人大的会议每年召开一次，其目的就是正式通过中共领导人已经制定好的政策。
“We will comprehensively enhance the revolutionary nature of the Chinese armed forces, further modernize them and upgrade their performance, and continue to raise their deterrence and combat capabilities in the information age,” Prime Minister Li Keqiang said at the opening session on Wednesday.
中国总理李克强周三在开幕式上说，“要全面加强军队革命化、现代化、正规化建设，不断提高军队在信息化条件下的威慑和实战能力。”
Other Asian nations suspect China’s priority is building offensive capabilities and point to China’s increasingly assertive postures on sovereignty issues. Southeast Asian nations have opposed China’s territorial claims in the South China Sea, which some analysts say has rich oil and gas reserves and abundant fisheries.
其他亚洲国家怀疑，中国的重点是要构建进攻能力。这些国家还指出，中国在主权问题上的姿态越来越强硬。东南亚国家对中国在南海提出的领土要求表示反对。一些分析人士称，南海有丰富的油气储备和渔业资源。
Last November, China stunned Japan, South Korea and the United States when it announced a new Air Defense Identification Zone over a swath of the East China Sea, saying that foreign planes, military or civilian, would have to report flight paths through the zone to China. The United States has continued to send military flights through the zone without obeying China’s request.
去年11月，中国宣布在东海一片狭长海域上空设立一个新的防空识别区，称外国飞机无论军用还是民用都必须向中国报备飞经该识别区的航线。中国此举令日本、韩国和美国大为震惊。美国并未遵守中国的要求，继续派军用飞机途经该区域。
China and Japan have been engaged in a heated diplomatic dispute over the sovereignty of islands administered by Japan in the East China Sea. Military patrols and movements by fishing vessels around those islands, called the Diaoyu in Chinese and the Senkaku in Japanese, could unintentionally trigger a conflict, American officials say.
围绕东海几个处在日本管辖下的岛屿，中国和日本爆发了一场激烈的外交争端。美国官员称，那些岛屿周边的军队巡逻和捕鱼船的行动可能会在无意中引发冲突。争议岛屿在中国被称为钓鱼岛，日本则称其为尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)。
“The last thing we need is some unintended incident that leads to unintended consequences, very severe consequences, whether it’s a fishing boat bumping into a navy vessel and someone drowning,” Gary F. Locke, the departing American ambassador to China, said at his final news conference in Beijing last week. “So it’s important that both sides lower the temperature and focus on diplomacy.”
“我们最不需要的是某种意想不到的事件，最终导致意想不到的、非常严重的结果，比如渔船撞上军舰导致有人溺水死亡，”美国驻华大使骆家辉(Gary F. Locke)上周在北京召开的离任前的最后一次新闻发布会上说。“因此双方都该降降温，以外交为重点，这很重要。”
American military officials have said ties with their Chinese counterparts are much weaker than with Soviet military officials during the height of the Cold War. In late February, Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the United States Army chief of staff, visited China to lay the groundwork for starting a formal dialogue and exchange program between the United States Army and the People’s Liberation Army. The general said he expected the first meeting in that program to take place before the end of 2014.
美国军方官员表示，美中两军高层的联系，要比冷战低谷期美苏两军高层的联系薄弱得多。今年2月底，美国陆军参谋长雷蒙德·T·奥迪耶诺上将(Raymond T. Odierno)到访中国，为美国陆军与人民解放军之间开展正式的对话与交流项目奠定基础。他称，希望在2014年底以前进行该项目的首次会面。
In recent years, the Chinese military has deployed to sea an aircraft carrier it refitted after being purchased from Ukraine, the Liaoning, and tested a stealth fighter. Many Chinese defense companies and research programs at state-run universities have been developing a range of drones for use by the People’s Liberation Army and for sale to other nations.
最近几年，中国军队在海上部署了一艘航空母舰，并且测试了一款隐形战斗机。这艘航母购自乌克兰，经改造后被命名为“辽宁号”。许多中国防务企业及公立大学的研究项目，一直在研发多款无人机。这些无人机要么是为了用于解放军，要么是为了销售到海外。