During his recent visit to China, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India said that when the two Asian giants shake hands, the world takes notice. Although the statement stands true, the real question to ask is whether the media and the security and diplomatic community in the two countries make much of this handshake. It can be argued India-China relations comprise a slew of missed opportunities, and these two have added yet another chapter to this narrative.
印度总理曼莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)最近访问中国期间表示，两大亚洲巨头握手的时候，世界会予以关注。虽说此话不假，但真正的问题在于，两国的媒体及安全与外交圈子是否能够充分利用这次握手。可以说，印中关系中存在大把失去的机会，两国不过是再给这个故事增添了新的篇章。
In recent years, India and China have engaged in a strategic dialogue, the term “strategic” being used loosely. The fifth edition of the dialogue was hosted by New Delhi in August. The leaders have been able to have uninterrupted annual summit-level talks, interact at annual meetings of the so-called BRICS countries and meet on the sidelines of Group of 20 and other global forums. India and China have had abundant high-level engagement.
近年来，印度和中国在进行一项战略对话，何谓“战略”却十分笼统。第五次对话于今年8月在新德里举行。两国领导人其实一直可以在未曾间断的年度峰会上沟通、在金砖国家年会上互动，或在二十国集团等国际论坛的边会上会晤。印中有充分的高级别接触机会。
Yet the conversation has not evolved. A 20th century grammar continues to define what surely must be the most important 21st century partnership. The only visible sign of deepening engagement remain the trade ties between the two countries that both governments use liberally to demonstrate the imagined “closer relations” and “successful” conduct of diplomacy.
然而，双方的对话并未进步。20世纪的思维继续左右着这一无疑是21世纪最为重要的伙伴关系。两国交流加深的唯一迹象仍是贸易纽带。双方政府均大肆利用这种纽带来证明一种假想的“更亲密关系”，以及“成功的”外交往来。
It can be no one’s case that the growth of India-China trade relations has been facilitated by government actions. The relationship has grown despite the unwillingness of the two governments to go beyond contentious issues that are a carryover of the past. Two phases have defined this trade relationship: the Karol Bagh-Guangzhou phase, where the New Delhi shopping district among others in India saw a flood of cheap goods from Chinese manufacturing hubs, and the Mumbai-Shanghai phase, in which bigger enterprises in each country began to engage in trade.
印中贸易关系的加强绝不能说是由政府行为推动的。尽管两国政府不愿超越历史遗留的争议话题，贸易关系还是得以提升。这种关系经历了两个阶段：格罗尔巴格—广州阶段，以及孟买—上海阶段。在前一个时期，新德里的购物区里充斥着来自各大中国制造中心的廉价商品；到了后一个时期，规模更大的印中企业开始参与到双边贸易活动中。
Small business owners and traders in both India and China saw an opportunity and initiated a process of economic engagement that led to the flooding of Indian markets with affordable Chinese products, including mobile phones, firecrackers and even idols of Indian gods and goddesses. The entrepreneurs working at the bottom of the business pyramid crafted the first wave of Sino-Indian economic engagement, often taking huge risks and working under regimes unfavorable to conduct of business.
起初，印中两国的小企业主和商人都看到了机遇，开启了经济接触的进程，最终让印度的市场里大量涌入价格合理的中国商品，包括手机、爆竹，乃至印度神像。商业金字塔底层的商人打造了第一波中印经济交流。他们往往冒着巨大的风险，相关机制当时并不太支持这种商业行为。
Increasingly these small traders have had company. Large industrial houses in Mumbai and Shanghai and other business centers have seen value in the relationship. Indian companies have been procuring high-value equipment in power, telecom and manufacturing sectors at competitive prices, and are now even raising commercial loans at favorable rates in China. Chinese businesses are showing an interest to invest in India’s infrastructure sector and are seeking increasing share in the growing consumer markets. The business communities have created this economic relationship based on opportunity and needs.
渐渐地，这些小商人成立了公司。孟买和上海等商业中心的大型工业企业看到了双边关系的价值。印度企业获得了高性价比的电力、通讯与制造业设备，如今甚至还在中国低息融资。中国企业则显示出投资印度基础设施建设的兴趣，还在寻求提高在日益扩大的印度消费市场中的份额。在机遇与需求的基础之上，两国商界创造出了这样的经济关系。
On the other hand, the governments in New Delhi and Beijing have shown remarkable consistency. Pedantic and unwilling to display leadership in resolving or nullifying the political hurdles, both governments have been guilty of holding back the economic integration of the two Asian giants.
另一方面，新德里与北京的政府却展示了惊人的一致性。墨守陈规的两国政府不愿在化解或消除政治障碍上展现领导力，一直是妨碍两个亚洲巨人进行经济融合的元凶。
The diplomatic and security establishments have undermined attempts to move the conversation beyond borders, visas and historic suspicions. Now anything and everything in the bilateral relationship is a security discourse. Basin level conversations amongst water experts and river communities are increasingly treated as a ‘security narrative’. China’s interest in the growing ports and roads and highways sector is limited by an imagined ‘security threat’ and India’s development of its northeast, instead of being viewed as an investment avenue for Chinese firms, is perceived to challenge the historic sovereign claims of China.
外交与安全圈子里的人破坏了将对话带到边界、签证与历史遗留问题之外的努力。现如今，双边关系中的点点滴滴都被带入了安全语境。水务专家与河流专业人士之间关于流域的对话越来越多地被当作一种“安全交流”。中国对印度增长中的港口、道路和高速公路等部门的兴趣因假想的“安全威胁”而受限；印度在东北地区的发展没有被视作中国企业的投资渠道，而是被看成了对中国传统的领土主权的一种挑战。
The Beijing and New Delhi relationship is prisoner to such conversations around security, and in many instances these originate out of Washington, London and Canberra and are not necessarily organic Indian and Chinese debates. The idea of a contest in the ‘Indo-Pacific’ and growing ‘Chinese Hegemony’ are now finding space in bi-lateral conversations.  As a result, India and China are nowhere close to integrating land, water, men, material, markets and resources – imperatives in realizing the immense potential of the relationship. Every engagement has an inflexion point and what some in the Indian research community wonder is whether the current summit is that point for the two countries. The question to be asked, therefore, is whether the current visit has injected new life in the path toward sustainable reconciliation.
北京与新德里的关系受困于这种以安全为中心的对话，而且，在很多情况下，它们来自华盛顿、伦敦和堪培拉，并不一定是印中之间的原生议题。“印度洋—太平洋”竞争与“中国霸权”的概念如今在双边对话中占据了一席之地。结果，印中距离整合土地、水、人力、材料、市场与资源相去甚远，但是，若想实现双边关系的巨大潜力，这种融合是必不可少的。每种接触都有一个转折点，一些印度研究人员在想，目前的峰会是否会是两国关系的转折点。因此，应当提出的问题是，当前的访问是否给可持续的和解道路注入了新的活力。
Some aspects of the India-China relationship must be examined if we seek to address this. The first aspect must be the border. While the imprecise Line of Actual Control has been a source of occasional tensions between India and China, it has to be acknowledged that confrontations along the border have not taken a violent turn. Nonetheless, the frequency of such face-offs and the increasing military capabilities in the backdrop of rising nationalism on both sides amplify the possibility of such incidents spiraling out of control.
如若想应对这一问题，必须审视印中关系的某些方面。首先是边界问题。尽管含混的实际控制线是印中之间局势偶尔紧张的一个原因，但不得不承认，边界的对峙并未转向暴力。虽说如此，在双方民族主义情绪日益高涨的情况下，此类对峙的频率，以及军事能力的逐步提升，增大了事件走向失控的可能性。
In this regard, the Border Defense Cooperation Agreement signed by India and China is a significant step that takes forward initiatives agreed upon by both parties to maintain peace and tranquillity along the border since 1993. Steps under the agreement, like the exchange of information regarding military exercises, the possibility of setting up of hotlines and an agreement to not follow or trail each other’s military patrols, are important, albeit incremental gains.
在这一点上，印中签署的《边防合作协议》(Border Defense Cooperation Agreement)是意义重大的一步，让1993年以来双方针对维护边境线和平宁静所达成的诸多举措得以更进一步。协议中的一些举措十分重要，比如交换军事演习方面的信息、设立热线电话的可能性，以及同意不跟踪彼此的军事巡逻，尽管这些都是小的进步。
Naysayers continue to push pessimistic views. One school of thought represented by analysts like Brahma Chellany, argued that China used the Depsang incident in April 2013 to arm-twist India into agreeing to Chinese terms on border management. In the spring this year, Chinese troops had crossed deep into Indian territory and set up camp in Depsang Valley, Ladakh.
反对者则在继续表达悲观的看法。以布拉马·切拉尼(Brahma Chellaney)这样的分析人士为代表的一种思想认为，中国借2013年4月的德普桑山谷事件，使用武力强迫印度接受中国提出的边界管理条件。今年春天，中国军队曾越过边界深入印度领土，在拉达克的德普桑山谷（Depsang Valley，中国官方称“天南河谷”——译注）扎营。
On the other hand, those (mostly the business community as of now) who see value in engagement want to move beyond the border issues and make it less significant to propelling economic relations. For them, the border agreement is a way to achieving this. Pessimists, however, abound, and instead of seeing the situation for what it is — full of opportunities, if one chooses to recognize them — they push a “status quo” line. The traction that this group is able to generate in the media and public sphere, which feeds off Sinophobia, completely overwhelms any counterview. Hence, a lasting border solution must be what the countries should seek, and the current arrangement can only be a temporary dressing for the festering wound that will hold the relationship back.
另一方面，那些认为接触有价值的人，目前主要是商业界，希望跳脱边界问题，淡化这个问题的重要性，从而推动经贸关系。对他们来说，边界协议是达成这个目标的一种途径。然而持悲观态度者也很多，他们并不会看清当前局面的真实面貌——如果你愿意承认的话，有很多机遇——而是力主“维持现状”。这个群体在媒体上和公共领域中有能力产生极大的影响力，这又激发了“恐中”(Sinophobia)情绪，他们的影响力完全遮蔽了任何相反观点。因此，两国必须寻求一个持久解决边界问题的方案，当前的安排只是在暂时掩盖一个仍在溃烂的伤口，它还会影响两国关系。
Both sides, sadly, have been petulant on the issue of liberalizing visa policies. The recent episode in which the Chinese Embassy issued stapled visas (signifying a refusal to recognize their state as part of India) for sportspersons from Arunachal Pradesh, and the resultant uproar from the Indian side killed the possibility of opening up the visa regimes. All that was required was some bureaucratic flexibility and magnanimity on China’s part and some creativity on India’s part – linking a liberalized visa regime to agreeing with India’s position on the Arunachal Pradesh issue (for visa purposes), without prejudice to historic territorial claims. Yet again, China maneuvered itself into a position from where retreat would mean a loss of face, and yet again India failed to grab the opportunity when it presented itself.
很遗憾，双方在放宽签证政策的问题上的举动都很任性。最近的一个事件是，中国大使馆向来自阿鲁纳恰尔邦（Arunachal Pradesh，中国官方称“藏南地区”——译注）的运动员发放另纸签证，这意味着拒绝承认她们的邦是印度的一部分。这一事件在印度激起的愤怒，抹杀了放开签证政策的可能性。中国方面需要大度一些，表现出一些行政上的灵活性，印度方面则需要表现出一些创造性——将放宽签证政策与（在签证问题上）承认印方对阿鲁纳恰尔邦的实际控制相挂钩，但不涉及历史和领土主张。然而，中方的动作让自己处在了一个退无可退的境地，让步就意味着丢面子。而印度也未能在机遇来临时抓住它。
The trade imbalance of almost $20 billion with China continues to be a prickly issue, and the two missed another chance to address this when the visit failed to create pathways for increased Chinese investments in India. Although Mr. Singh articulated his interest in attracting Chinese investment to India before he embarked on his visit, concrete steps in this direction remain elusive. Chinese investment in setting up industrial parks and other infrastructure projects is one obvious hedge against the trade deficit.
中印之间几乎达到200亿美元的贸易不平衡仍然是一个棘手的问题，访问未能打开增进中国对印度投资的渠道，双方都再一次失去了机遇。尽管辛格在启程之前谈到，他有吸引中国对印度投资的意愿，但在这个方向仍然难以获得切实的进展。中国投资建设工业园和其他基础设施项目，显然会是一个对贸易逆差的对冲。
Enabling the establishment of service centers by Chinese power companies in India is certainly a big step forward and a positive emerging from the current talks. This would allay concerns raised by some in the Indian security establishment on the proliferation of Chinese equipment in the power sector. These alarmist concerns related to the possibility that India, were it to purchase such equipment from China, could be stranded with the proverbial white elephants because of a lack of supply of spares and services.
允许中国电力企业在印度建立维修中心，肯定是一大进步，而且在当前的对话中是一个正面消息。这样能缓解印度安全体制中一些人，对电力产业里中国设备大增所产生的担忧。这种警觉的担忧所涉及的可能性是，如果印度从中国购买这种设备，可能就会因为缺乏配件和养护服务，让印度陷入窘境，即出现谚语中的“白象”。
Water made it to the laundry list this time and must be viewed as a significant positive as this must certainly be a first when China has agreed to such a conversation with a lower riparian. The two have agreed to share hydrological data on transborder rivers and exchange views on associated topics of mutual interest. This gives India the window to approach China with regard to the construction of dams on the Brahmaputra. Similarly, the memorandum of understanding on roadways and transportation identifies several areas for cooperation, including sharing knowledge in transportation technology, road construction standards, road safety plans, joint research and sharing experience related to public-private partnership models. This can be seen as laying the foundation for creating infrastructure to connect Asia.
这次水资源也成了讨论事项之一，我们必须把这当成一个十分正面的迹象，因为这肯定是中国第一次同意与下游国家开展此类对话。双方同意共享跨境河流的水文数据，并对涉及共同利益的相关问题交换意见。这就给了印度一个机会，就在雅鲁藏布江上建设大坝与中国提出交涉。与此相似，在交通和运输领域的谅解备忘录也提出了若干个合作领域，包括在运输技术、道路建设标准、道路安全规划等方面分享知识，对公共部门和私营部门协作的模式共同开展研究并分享经验。可以把这理解成打基础，进而建立起能够连接起亚洲的基础设施。
Economics has proved to be a major factor in political reconciliation elsewhere. However, in the case of India and China, economic engagement is hitting a political wall. Only a political thrust can help realize what should otherwise seem inevitable: India and China becoming the world’s largest bilateral trade partnership.
在其他地区，经济关系实际上成了政治和解的主要因素。然而具体到印度和中国，经济交流却撞上了一堵政治的墙。只有在政治上施加推力，才能帮助实现本来看似无虞的前景：印度和中国成为世界最大的双边贸易伙伴。
India has to learn from others. The United States is implementing its pivot strategy in Asia in an attempt to create partnerships to balance a rising China, yet Washington has reached the $500 billion mark in its trade with Beijing. Japan, which had the most unfavorable image among Chinese according to a local opinion poll, manages a $300 billion trade engagement. Despite political differences and contests, there is pragmatism at work here.
印度必须学习其他国家。美国为了建立伙伴关系制衡日益崛起的中国，实行了转向亚洲策略，然而美中两国的贸易额已经达到了5000亿美元大关。当地民调显示，日本在中国人心目中的形象最为负面，但日中两国的贸易额还是达到了3000亿美元。尽管存在政治上的分歧和竞争，我们还是从中看到了务实精神。
Today, India requires $1 trillion of infrastructure investment every five years for at least the next two decades. China has the potential to be the largest stakeholder in this effort. Investments by China will also automatically create security hedges favoring India and help offset the trade deficit. In return, India offers China the opportunity to continue its impressive economic growth. Its capacities in steel, cement, power and industry can now be deployed in the transformation of India, and in return such economic ventures will boost China’s gross domestic product by some basis points. We are at that political moment when Asia could be integrated like never before.
现在，印度每五年就需要1万亿美元的基础设施投资，未来至少20年时间里都将如此。在这番努力中，中国有潜力成为最大的利益相关方。中国的投资还会自动地建立起有利于印度的安全防护，并帮助弥补贸易逆差。印度反过来又能给中国提供机遇，继续维持骄人的经济增长。中国在钢铁、水泥、电力和工业领域的实力，现在可以投入到印度的转型中，而反过来这种投资又能推动中国的GDP提高若干个基点。我们正处在一个可以让亚洲以前所未有的程度实现融合的关键政治时刻。
Unfortunately, the two pillars of the dawning Asian century are still prisoners to their perceived insecurities and imagined magnificence. They seem condemned to “never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity,” as one wise man had once remarked.
遗憾的是，亚洲世纪的曙光刚刚显露，亚洲世纪的两大支柱仍然囿于各自感受到的不安全感和想象出的伟岸姿态。就像一位智者曾经说过的，这两个国家似乎“永远不会错过任何一个错过机会的机会”。