Lili Feng and her husband first drew up the plan for their family’s future in March 2010. Their goal, like that of thousands of other wealthy Chinese, was to move via the investor immigration program to Canada, which they believed offered the best combination of public safety and education for their three daughters.
冯莉莉（音译）和丈夫第一次为他们的家庭制定未来计划是在2010年3月份。他们的目标和数千其他中国富人一样，是通过投资移民项目搬到加拿大去，他们认为加拿大能为他们的三个女儿提供最好的公共安全和教育条件。
But after four years of waiting, the dream Ms. Feng, 40, once had of a new life for her family abroad was all but dashed in February when the Canadian government abruptly announced it was canceling its immigrant investor program along with tens of thousands of outstanding applications.
但是在等待了4年之后，现年40岁的冯莉莉全家出国开始新生活的曾经梦想，却差不多快要破灭了，因为加拿大政府在2月份突然宣布，取消投资移民项目，不再考虑数万份尚未处理完的申请。
In a desperate attempt to persuade Canada to rethink its decision, Ms. Feng has joined more than 1,400 Chinese plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the Canadian immigration authorities.
作为一种说服加拿大重新考虑其决定的绝望尝试，冯莉莉和另外1400多名中国人将加拿大移民局告上法庭。
Arguments in the case were presented in two federal courts, in Toronto and Vancouver, last Wednesday. Tim Leahy, the Toronto-based attorney who is representing the group, has asked for $5 million Canadian per applicant and his or her dependents in compensation, on the grounds that the Canadian immigration authorities had failed to process their applications within the promised time frame.
这个案子的论据上周三提交到多伦多和渥太华的两个联邦法庭上。多伦多的律师蒂姆·莱希(Tim Leahy)是这群人的代理，他要求为每位申请者及其需要抚养的家属支付500万加元(约合2860万元人民币)的赔偿金，因为加拿大移民局未能在许诺的时间内处理他们的申请。
While the lawsuit is focused on 94 core litigants, the court’s decision is expected to apply to all 1,508 applicants who Mr. Leahy said joined the lawsuit by the time of last Wednesday’s hearings. Of these 1,508, 1,407 had filed their applications in Hong Kong and were mostly mainland Chinese, according to Mr. Leahy. Other investors represented in the lawsuit had applied from Ankara, Turkey; London; Pretoria, South Africa; and New Delhi.
虽然这一诉讼案主要围绕着94名核心当事人，但法庭的判决预计将适用于所有在上周三听审前加入诉讼的1508名申请者，莱希说。据莱希介绍，这1508人当中，有1407人是在香港提交的申请，他们大部分是中国大陆人。参与诉讼的其他投资者分别是在土耳其的安卡拉、伦敦、南非的比勒陀利亚，以及新德里提交的申请。
The cancellation of the program was announced in a national budget proposal in February after a series of reports was published in the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post revealing the extent to which the program had been overwhelmed with applications by rich investors from mainland China.
取消投资移民项目是加拿大在今年2月份的国家预算提案中宣布的，此前香港的《南华早报》曾发表系列文章，披露该项目收到了大量的来自中国大陆富裕投资者提交的申请，已经达到应接不暇的程度。
Because of the enormous backlog of applications, the Canadian government had stopped accepting new applications in July 2012. As of last July, there were 66,423 individuals in the immigrant investment backlog, of which 50,131 had been filed in Hong Kong, the newspaper reported, citing immigration data.
由于积压了大批来不及处理的申请，加拿大政府不得不在2012年7月停止接受新的申请。该报道引用移民数据称，截至去年7月份，积压下来的投资移民申请涉及66423人，其中有50131人是在香港提交的申请。
The cancellation of the program and outstanding visa applications will not take effect until June 26, when the budget is expected to be passed.
取消这一项目以及让那些未处理的申请作废的决定将在6月26日生效，届时预算议案有望得到通过。
“For decades, it has significantly undervalued Canadian permanent residence,” the proposed budget says of the investor program.
预算提案称该投资项目“几十年来，极大地低估了加拿大永久居住权的价值。”
There is “little evidence that immigrant investors as a class are maintaining ties to Canada or making a positive economic contribution to the country,” it continues. Furthermore, the immigrant investors tend to under-report employment and investment income and therefore pay lower taxes in the long term than other economic immigrants, it says.
预算提案接下来写道，“几乎没有证据表明，投资移民者作为一个阶层，与加拿大保持着联系，或者给国家带来积极的经济贡献。”此外，预算提案表示，这些投资移民倾向于隐瞒就业和投资收入，因此从长远来看，他们比其他经济类移民缴纳的税额要低。
Before its cancellation, Canada’s immigrant investor program was widely considered to be one of the easiest routes for investors to gain permanent residency abroad. Unlike other programs in the United States or Europe, which require large investment sums or proof of jobs created from the investment, investors seeking to immigrate to Canada were required only to make a five-year, interest-free loan to the government of $400,000 or $800,000, depending on the time of application, as well as show a net worth of $1.6 million Canadian.
在被取消之前，加拿大的投资移民项目一直被广泛认为是一个最容易获得外国永久居住权的途径。美国或欧洲其他国家的投资移民项目要求很大的投资金额、或投资创造了就业的证明，加拿大的项目与那些国家的不同，寻求移民加拿大的投资者只需给政府一笔五年期无息贷款，贷款总额因申请提交时间的不同，从40万到80万加元不等，投资者还需出具一份拥有价值为160万加元净资产的证明。
The idea that millionaires are buying their residence visas “sits very badly on the Canadian mentality, so the perception is negative,” said Mr. Leahy.
莱希说，富翁正在购买他们的居住签证的想法“让加拿大人心里感到很不舒服，因此他们对这个项目的看法是负面的。”
China is among the three countries with the highest number of millionaire households, according to the Boston Consulting Group. And the proportion of high net worth individuals in China looking to settle abroad reached a record 64 percent this year, up from 60 percent last year, according to a joint report released last week by the Hurun Report, which tracks high net worth individuals in China, defined as those with family wealth of at least 6 million renminbi (about $1 million), and the immigration agency Visas Consulting Group. The main reasons cited by wealthy Chinese for emigrating, according to the survey, were concerns about quality of education, environmental pollution and food safety.
根据波士顿咨询集团(Boston Consulting Group)数据，中国是世界上拥有百万富翁家庭数量最多的三个国家之一。胡润百富和移民机构汇加顾问集团上周发布的一份联合报告显示，在中国的高净值个人群体中，寻求去海外定居的人数比例已从去年的60%上升到64%，胡润百富对中国的高净值人士进行跟踪调查，其定义的高净值人士指的是至少拥有600万元人民币家产的人。联合调查报告显示，中国富人给出的移民国外的主要原因是对教育质量、环境污染和食品安全的担心。
The Canadian government has said it will announce new plans for a “more focused and effective” pilot program for immigrant investors in the coming months.
加拿大政府表示将宣布新计划，在未来几个月里开启针对投资移民的“更有针对性、更有效”的试点项目。
“Canada has a proud tradition of welcoming immigrants from all over the world, including China,” Bill Brown, a spokesman for the immigration department, said in an emailed statement.
加拿大政府移民部门的发言人比尔·布朗(Bill Brown)在一封用电子邮件发来的声明中说，“加拿大有着欢迎来自包括中国在内的世界各地移民的自豪传统。”
China “has been among the top source countries for Canadian immigration for more than a decade,” Mr. Brown added, and it would “continue to rank as such.”
布朗还说，中国“作为加拿大移民的第一大输出国已经十多年了”，并将会“继续保持这一地位”。
At the time the program was canceled, the investors represented in the lawsuit were in various stages of the application review process. For Ms. Feng, who applied with her family in 2010, moving to Canada was “our dream for years.”
现有项目被取消的时候，参与诉讼案的投资者正处于不同阶段的申请审理之中。对冯莉莉来说，移民加拿大是“我们多年的梦想”，她一家是在2010年申请移民的。
With high hopes, Ms. Feng placed her oldest two daughters in an international school in Shenzhen and began making preparations to transfer the management of their elevator sales company, which Ms. Feng runs with her husband. They hoped to move to Toronto for its schools, she said. The entire process, they were told, would take no more than two to three years.
冯莉莉满怀希望地把两个大女儿送进深圳一所国际学校，还开始准备把她和丈夫一起经营的电梯销售公司的管理工作移交出去。她说，他们希望能搬到多伦多去，是因为那里的学校。他们被告知整个审理过程不会超过2到3年。
“It’s been four years now, and we are very disappointed,” Ms. Feng said. “But we haven’t activated any backup plan yet. We are still hoping the Canadian government will solve this problem fairly and impartially.”
冯莉莉说，“现在已经4年了，我们非常失望。但是我们还没有启动任何后备计划。我们仍然希望加拿大政府能公平、公正地处理这个问题。”
Ms. Feng said that she and her husband had initially considered applying to the United States, like many of their friends, but had ruled the country out because they thought it wasn’t safe.
冯莉莉说，她和丈夫一开始曾象他们的许多朋友那样，考虑过申请美国移民，但由于他们认为美国不安全，排除了那个选择。