BEIJING — Chrisdien Deny, a retail chain with more than 500 locations across China, sells belts, shoes and clothing with an “Italian style” — and a logo with the same font as Christian Dior’s.
北京——克雷斯丹尼(Chrisdien Deny)是一家在中国有500多家店铺的连锁品牌，产品涵盖具有“意式风情”的腰带、鞋履及服装，该品牌商标的字体与克里斯汀·迪奥(Christian Dior)相同。
Helen Keller, named for the deaf-blind American humanitarian, offers trendy sunglasses and classic spectacles at over 80 stores, with the motto “you see the world, the world sees you.”
以美国盲聋人道主义者海伦·凯勒(Helen Keller)名字命名的海伦凯勒眼镜，开设了80多家专卖店，出售时髦的太阳镜和经典款的眼镜，并以“你看世界，世界看你”为广告宣传语。
Frognie Zila, a clothing brand sold in 120 stores in China, boasts that its “international” selection is “one of the first choices of successful politicians and businessmen” and features pictures on its website of the Leaning Tower of Pisa and Venetian canals.
服装品牌弗朗尼·齐拉(Frognie Zila)在中国有120家店铺，该公司宣称其“国际化”的精品成为了“政界、商界成功男士的首选品牌”，还在官方网站上展示了比萨斜塔和威尼斯运河的图片。
Eager to glaze their products with the sheen of international sophistication, many homegrown retail brands have hit upon a similar formula: Choose a non-Chinese name that gives the impression of being foreign.
很多本土零售品牌急于给他们的产品贴上国际精品的光彩，它们不约而同地发现了一个类似的方法：选择一个听起来不那么中国的名字，给人一种外国品牌的印象。
“You could call it fawning on foreign powers,” said Cheng Wei, 37, who was recently at a Beijing mall buying winter clothes at Chocoolate, a Hong Kong casual wear outlet, where Chinese characters were absent from all but one store logo.
“你可以说这是崇洋媚外的做法，”37岁的程伟（音）最近一天在北京一家商场的Chocoolate专卖店选购冬装时说。Chocoolate是香港的一个休闲服装品牌，除了商店的一块标识之外，看不到任何汉字。
At a time when manufacturing is cooling and real estate is slumping, consumption is a bright spot in the Chinese economy. In the first 11 months of 2014, retail sales grew by 12 percent over the previous year to 23.66 trillion renminbi, or $3.8 trillion, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.
在制造业疲软，房地产萎靡不振的时期，消费品市场成为中国经济中的亮点。国家统计局数据显示，在2014年前11个月中，零售总额同比增长12%，达到23.66万亿元人民币。
The government considers consumer spending so vital that Prime Minister Li Keqiang in November declared, “Let the people be able to consume, dare to consume and be willing to consume,” according to the state news agency Xinhua.
官方通讯社新华社报道，中国政府认为消费性开支非常重要，今年11月，李克强总理曾说，“让群众能消费、敢消费、愿消费。”
But some Chinese appear loath to spend their disposable income on locally produced fashions.
但一些中国人似乎不愿利用可支配收入来购买本土制作的时尚产品。
“Buy Chinese brands? Never,” said Fu Rao, 20, a university student, who was browsing the clothes at the Japanese outlet store Snidel in an upscale Beijing mall one recent evening. Ms. Fu complained that Chinese products were shoddily made and lacking in style. “Foreign stuff is so much better,” she said.
“买中国牌子？绝对不买，”20岁的大学生付娆（音）说。最近一天的晚上，她来到北京一家高档购物中心里的日本Snidel专卖店挑选衣服。付娆抱怨中国制作的衣服都做工粗糙，没有格调。她说，“外国牌子要好得多。”
As Chinese retail companies try to attract consumers, mystifying maladaptations of English have spread across the country’s storefronts, shopping bags and clothing labels. Wanko, Hotwind, Scat, Orgee and Marisfrolg (the L is silent) all sell clothing. A sponsor of China’s national golf team is the apparel chain Biemlfdlkk.
中国零售类公司设法吸引顾客，一些令人困惑的蹩脚英语名称出现在各种店面、购物袋及服装标签中。Wanko、热风(Hotwind)、Scat、欧季(Orgee)和玛丝菲尔（Marisfrolg，L不发音）都卖衣服。服装连锁店比音勒芬(Biemlfdlkk)是中国国家高尔夫球队的赞助商之一。
If Chinese companies have stumbled in the branding race, that is because few ever gave it much thought. For years, as China’s economic growth soared into the double digits, branding was largely considered a low-priority marketing decision left to top executives far more concerned with the next product introduction than with building long-term value, said Joel Backaler, author of “China Goes West,” a book that charts the efforts of Chinese companies seeking to build international brands.
如果说中国公司在品牌竞争中跌了跟头，那是因为很少有人重视品牌。《中国走向西方》(China Goes West)一书的作者周乐达(Joel Backaler)表示，多年来，在中国经济增长飙升至两位数的同时，品牌塑造基本上被认为是次要的营销决策，高管们更关心的是下一个产品的推广，而不是创造长期价值。《中国走向西方》一书讲述了中国企业努力打造国际品牌的经历。
In China, many Western brands have chosen a Mandarin-language name that will convey relevant qualities to consumers, like Coca-Cola, whose Chinese brand name — Kekoukele — translates as Tasty Fun. Other foreign brands such as Cadillac, or Ka di la ke in Mandarin characters, stick with a phonetic transliteration that has no Chinese meaning, thus signaling their foreign cachet.
在中国，很多西方品牌会选择一个能够向消费者传达相关特质的中文名字，比如Coca-Cola的中文名为可口可乐。另外一些外国品牌，如Cadillac坚持将其名字音译为凯迪拉克，没有中文寓意，以表明外国品牌的身份。
Some local companies have gone the same route, employing phonetic if meaningless brand names to obtain a foreign-sounding flair, even though they are actually homegrown.
一些本土公司走的是同一条路线，使用标音但无涵义的品牌名，以便听起来像是洋牌子，尽管它们实际上是本土品牌。
The golf apparel brand Biemlfdlkk, sold in over 450 Chinese stores, goes by Biyinlefen in Mandarin, using four characters that translate literally as “compare music rein fragrant.” While the name may be ambiguous by design, it can make creating a uniform brand identity difficult. A Biemlfdlkk saleswoman in the southern city of Guangzhou explained, “It’s a German name." An employee at another Biemlfdlkk shop had a different explanation: “It’s the name of a French designer.”
在中国有逾450家店铺的高尔夫服装品牌Biemlfdlkk的中文名为比音勒芬。虽然这个名字可能是有意地模棱两可，但这使该公司很难建立统一的品牌身份。南部城市广州的一名比音勒芬销售员解释称，“这是一个德国名字。”另一家比音勒芬商店的店员给出了不同的解释，“这是法国设计师的名字。”
Rather than create distinct branding, other local companies have chosen simply to mimic well-known foreign brands. “Chinese brands copy because they believe it enables them to get an easy, quick win,” said Vladimir Djurovic, president of the Labbrand Consulting Company in Shanghai. “They play on the confusion.”
另外一些本土公司没有建立独有的品牌，而只是选择模仿知名外国品牌。“中国品牌之所以抄袭，是因为它们认为这样做能使他们简单、迅速地取得成功，”上海朗标咨询公司(Labbrand Consulting Company)总裁竹文峥(Vladimir Djurovic)说。“它们利用了其中的混淆。”
The knockoff casual wear brand Clio Coddle has a green crocodile logo reminiscent of Lacoste. Across China, sneakers are emblazoned with Adidos, Hike, Cnoverse and Fuma — featuring a smoking puma — and there are SQNY batteries and Johnnie Worker Red Labial whiskey.
山寨休闲服装品牌克劳克达鳄鱼(Clio Coddle)的商标是一只绿色的鳄鱼，让人联想起法国鳄鱼(Lacoste)。在中国各地，运动鞋也被印上了“Adidos”、“Hike”、“Cnoverse”和“Fuma”——该品牌的商标是一只叼着烟的美洲狮——等字样，而且还有“SQNY”的电池，“Johnnie Worker Red Labial”的威士忌。
Reached by phone, a Chrisdien Deny representative denied that the brand was trying to piggyback on the reputation of Christian Dior, which has dozens of stores in China. “I’ve never heard of that company,” said the representative, who declined to give her name. Christian Dior declined to comment.
克雷斯丹尼的一名代表在电话采访中否认他们试图借用克里斯汀·迪奥的声誉。后者已经在中国开了数十家店铺。“我从没听说过那家公司，”这名拒绝透露姓名的代表说。克里斯汀·迪奥也拒绝就此置评。
Chrisdien Deny has no Chinese-language brand name and is a subsidiary of Huayu Group Holdings Ltd., based in Guangzhou. Huayu claims to be the Far East distributor of the “century-old European brand” Chrisdien Deny, according to its employee recruiting materials.
克雷斯丹尼没有中文品牌名称，是广州华域集团控股有限公司的子公司。根据华域的招聘材料，它自称是克雷斯丹尼这个“百年欧洲品牌”的远东代理商。
Chinese brand names have stoked international controversy in the past. One of China’s most popular toothpaste brands is known as Darlie in English but Hei Ren, or Black People, in Mandarin. In 1985, Colgate-Palmolive bought 50 percent of the Hong Kong company that owned the brand, which was then called Darkie in English. Its logo was a grinning minstrel in blackface wearing a top hat, tuxedo and bow tie.
中国的品牌过去也曾引起过国际争议。在中国，一个极受欢迎的牙膏品牌的英文叫做“Darlie”，但是汉语叫做“黑人”。1985年，高露洁-棕榄(Colgate-Palmol)收购了持有这个品牌的香港公司50%的股份，当时该品牌的英文名是“Darkie”。其商标是一个黑皮肤的艺人，他穿着礼服，戴着大礼帽和领结，露齿而笑。
After three years of pressure by African-Americans, religious groups and shareholders who found the brand derogatory, Colgate made the logo more racially ambiguous and changed the English name to Darlie, though the Mandarin remains unchanged. “Colgate is committed to demonstrating respect to all people,” the company has said in a statement on its website. “We understand that there are different perspectives on the Chinese language brand, and we continue to consider these perspectives in our discussions” with the Hong Kong founders.
在认为该品牌含有贬义的非裔美国人、宗教团体和股东施压三年之后，高露洁弱化了商标的种族属性，把该品牌的英文名改成了“Darlie”，但汉语名称仍未改变。“高露洁会坚定地尊重所有人，”公司在其网站上的声明中称。“我们知道，有人对它的中文品牌持有不同意见，我们”在与香港的创始人“商谈的过程中，会继续考虑这些意见”。
Helen Keller glasses would probably have a hard time selling overseas, too. Though the company’s website includes a lengthy biography of Helen Keller, it omits all mention of the disabilities she worked hard to overcome.
海伦·凯勒眼镜在海外大概也不好卖。虽然公司的网站对海伦·凯勒的生平给出了长篇介绍，但是却没有提到凯勒努力克服的生理残障。
Reached by phone, a brand manager found nothing problematic about the omission. “So she’s blind and deaf — her personal shortcomings are not related to the spirit of our brand,” said the woman, who gave only her surname, Jiang. “These products help you love and protect your eyes. Why would that be offensive?”
在电话采访中，一位品牌经理认为如此省略没有任何问题。“她又失明又失聪——她的个人缺陷与我们的品牌精神没有任何关系，”只表示自己姓江（音）的这位女品牌经理说。“这些产品能帮你爱护和保护眼睛。这有什么令人不快的呢？”
Facing rising labor costs and increased competition, businesses are now thinking more carefully about brand identity, analysts say. “Yesterday’s strategy is no longer effective,” said Mr. Backaler, the “China Goes West” author.
分析人士说，面临着劳动力成本上升和日益激烈的竞争，各企业正在更加认真地考虑品牌识别的问题。《中国走向西方》的作者周乐达说，“过去的策略不再有效了。”
Labbrand has developed over 200 brand names for Western companies entering the Chinese market and Chinese companies looking to build global brands. Labbrand’s president, Mr. Djurovic, said the company’s work creating brand names in the Latin alphabet has increased significantly in recent years, suggesting that Chinese companies are beginning to realize they cannot just transliterate their Mandarin brand names or mimic Western ones if they hope to win the loyalties of customers, not just in China but around the world.
朗标已经为进驻中国市场的西方公司以及希望打造国际品牌的中国公司提供了200多个品牌名称。朗标的总裁竹文峥称，近年来，公司用拉丁字母创造品牌名称的工作显著增加，这表明中国企业开始意识到，要想获得客户忠诚度——不仅在中国，而且在世界各地——不能只是对它们的汉语品牌名称进行音译或模仿西方品牌。
So far, only a few domestic brands have succeeded abroad, mostly in high tech. One notable exception is Haier, the world’s top electronic home appliance brand for the last five years, according to the market research firm Euromonitor International.
截至目前，中国只有少数本土品牌在国外取得了成功，而且这些品牌大多来自高科技领域。其中一个最引人注目的例外是海尔。市场调查公司欧睿信息咨询公司(Euromonitor International)表示，过去五年，海尔在世界家用电器品牌中一直高居榜首。
The Chinese sportswear maker Li Ning, based in Beijing, has not been as fortunate. Despite opening stores in the United States and spending heavily on American advertising, the company reported net losses of $75 million in the first half of the year, three times as much as its net loss in 2013.
总部位于北京的中国运动服饰制造商李宁则没有那么幸运。尽管公司在美国开设了专卖店，并在美国花费重金投放广告，但公司表示，今年上半年净亏损达7500万美元，是2013年净亏损的三倍。