SHANGHAI — Some restaurants place you close to the surf, its perfume in the air and its music in your ears, while others nestle you in the woods. Some put you next to the Seine, others beside aquariums bursting with tropical colors.
上海——一些餐厅会让你置身海边，空气中仿佛有香气浮动，音乐声也不绝于耳；另一些餐厅则会领你走入丛林。一些餐厅会让你置身塞纳河岸，还有一些则会让你坐在热带风情的水族箱边。
In a country whose culinary reach is catching up to the rest of its ambitions, I visited a restaurant that does all of that and more.
在中国，一如这个国家在其他方面所展现出的发展动力，餐饮业也正在迎头赶上。我最近光顾的一家餐馆，不仅做到了上述的一切，甚至还有所超越。
It’s named Ultraviolet. It’s physically in Shanghai but spiritually unbound, thanks to the moving, shifting images projected onto the blank walls that encircle the windowless dining room, which has one long table for just 10 people, a crew of gastronauts floating hither and yon. Now you’re in an amber field, now under a bell tower. Now amid the stars, and now pressed close against a window pearled with raindrops.
餐馆的名字叫做Ultraviolet。虽然位于上海，但感官上却无远弗届，这要归功于投射到墙上不断移动变化的影像。这间餐厅的四面墙壁上空无一物，甚至没有一扇窗，有一个可供10人用餐的长桌，这些美食家将会在不同场景之间游弋。这会儿你在琥珀色的田里，过会儿你又置身钟楼之下。此一时遨游星海间，彼一时又紧挨窗户，窗上挂着珍珠般的雨滴。
What you hear and sometimes smell changes with the sights, each of roughly 20 courses getting its own multisensory showcase. The waves and the ocean’s aroma were for a lobster appetizer. A subsequent dish of eggplant and tahini was paired with a sumptuous visual travelogue of Greece.
你听到的闻到的，会因为眼前景色的改变而改变。全餐大致20道菜，每一道都有对应的多感官演示。作为开胃菜的龙虾，对应的是海洋的芬芳。随后上来的茄子和芝麻酱的菜肴，则跟希腊纪行中奢华的视觉享受对应。
Ultraviolet, which opened last year, is one of a mind-bending kind. But it’s also a perfect ambassador for China’s dining scene right now, capturing the frenzy and swagger of it all. The country’s flush of wealth and influx of business travelers have given rise to restaurants more varied, distinctive and imaginative than before. In Beijing, I found an elegant vegetarian place, King’s Joy, that mimics a mountaintop monastery. Mist rises from the stones outside its entrance and around its courtyard; in the main dining room, a harpist plays angelic music.
Ultraviolet去年开业，给你带来一种仿佛幻觉的体验。但它也恰如其分地代表了如今中国餐饮业的面貌，捕捉了它的狂热和傲慢。当今中国财富涌动，吸引了大量商务旅客，大量前所未见更具多样化、更有个性和想象力的餐厅应运而生。在北京，我发现了一家优雅的素食餐厅京兆尹(King’s Joy)，风格仿佛山顶修道院。从门外到院子，薄雾从石头里飘出来。在主餐厅，一位竖琴乐师演奏天使般的音乐。
As I swept through Shanghai, Beijing and Hong Kong over two weeks, I had to make impossible decisions about what to sample from this bounty. I confined myself to restaurants that opened in 2010 or later. I steered clear of those that showcased Western cooking from chefs based far from China. Shanghai and especially Hong Kong are magnets for such expansions and testaments to the globalism of the high-end dining scene today. In Shanghai, for instance, one of the hottest new places, Mercato, has Italian food conceived by a Frenchman living principally in New York: Jean-Georges Vongerichten.
在两个多礼拜的时间里，我在上海，北京和香港之间游走。从这样丰富的选择中做出选择进行试吃，真的是异常艰难。我缩小范围，只去尝试那些2010年及以后才开业的餐馆。一些展示西方厨艺的餐厅，他们聘请了远道而来的大厨，对此我敬而远之。上海和香港就像磁石一般，吸引着这类餐厅扩张到中国；也是高端餐饮全球化的写照。例如，在上海，最炙手可热的新餐馆之一为Mercato，主做意大利菜。负责研发菜品的是让-乔治·冯热里什唐(Jean-Georges Vongerichten)，他是旅居纽约的法国人。
I went instead to Xi Na, for the spicy cooking of the Hunan region. Increasingly in China’s major cities, you can get exemplary regional cuisine in glossy settings. Xi Na’s red walls shimmer, though not as vividly as the ocher broth in a signature entree, a carp head with red and green chile peppers and fermented black beans. It’s a showstopper, a spellbinder, with so much color, fire and funk that when it was on the table, everything else in the world ceased to exist.
我最后去的餐厅是囍娜湘香，以湖南地区的辛辣口味为特色。在中国的大城市里，在优雅的就餐环境中，你能在优美的环境里享用各类地道的地方美食。囍娜湘香的红墙闪闪发亮，而更加闪亮的，是作为标志性主菜的赭色的鲤鱼头汤，混合了青椒红椒和豆豉。这道菜不同凡响，吸引了所有人的注意，它的色彩丰富、辣劲十足、香味浓郁，等到端上桌时，似乎其他一切都不复存在了。
At the new Mandarin Oriental hotel in Shanghai’s Pudong district, the marquee restaurant, Yong Yi Ting, focuses on the sugary byways of Shanghainese cooking itself.  It’s the fourth Chinese restaurant that the consulting chef, Tony Lu, has opened in just eight years, the pace of his growth a mirror of his country’s.
位于上海浦东的文华东方酒店，入口不远处就是雍颐庭餐厅。这家餐厅专注口味偏甜比较小众的上海本帮菜。这间餐厅的顾问主厨是卢怿明(Tony Lu)；而这也是他在过去八年间开设的第四间餐厅，其速度反映了这个国家的发展。
Shanghai overshadows Beijing, and both trail Hong Kong, which remains a China apart from China. The three cities in all have such an embarrassment of riches that of the noteworthy restaurants mentioned above, only Ultraviolet made my list of five standouts, presented here in no particular order.
香港是中国的一部分，却和大陆有极大的不同。在餐饮业方面，北京上海紧随其后，上海又胜过北京。在这三座城市里，虽然像前文所述的那样的知名餐厅数不胜数，但仅有Ultraviolet进入了我所列出的五佳榜单，将在下文一一阐述，不分先后。
YARDBIRD
YARDBIRD
Talk about globalism: this restaurant is the creation of two young Canadians, Matt Abergel and Lindsay Jang, who met as teenagers in Calgary, Alberta; got much of their professional experience in New York; then went to Hong Kong to strike out on their own with Yardbird, which pays homage to Japan.
说到全球主义：下面这个餐馆是两位加拿大年轻人马特·阿贝热尔(Matt Abergel)和林赛·詹格(Lindsay Jang)的杰作。他们自十几岁时相识于艾伯塔的卡尔加里。在纽约积累了专业经验之后，转战香港，以Yardbird开创了自己的事业，主营日餐。
Its focus is yakitori: grilled, skewered chicken. And Mr. Abergel, its chef, has set himself the mission of demonstrating how much one bird can give. His menu reads like some fowl play on “Gray’s Anatomy,” with one-word choices: breast, thigh, neck, knee, tail, heart, liver, gizzard. Each bears the scent of Japanese charcoal, along with whatever minimal seasonings Mr. Abergel deems appropriate. And together these parts illustrate how remarkably the flavor of chicken changes with different ratios of skin to meat or cartilage to fat.
招牌菜为日式串烧：即烧烤的鸡肉串。主厨阿贝热尔以充分发掘一只鸡的潜力为己任。菜单都是以一个单词为菜名，读起来就像家禽版的《格式解剖学》(Gray’s Anatomy)：胸、腿、颈、膝、臀、心、肝、胗。每一串都散发着日式炭烧的香气，配合阿贝热尔钦定为恰到好处的最简调料。所有这些不同部位体现了不同比例的皮与肉，或软骨与脂肪的搭配，味道是多么的不同。
Yardbird also serves salads, sides and entrees, including many dazzlers. Sweet corn tempura are addictive balls of tender kernels bound together with batter and deep-fried. KFC stands for Korean fried cauliflower, a fiery, ketchupy exclamation point of a dish. Another emphatic statement: rice with oozing egg, crisp chicken skin and green peas. And Yardbird’s chicken liver mousse is a silky dream.
Yardbird也提供沙拉、配菜和头盘，其中不乏绝妙之作。甜玉米天妇罗是将玉米粒搅碎煎炸后制成的丸子，令人欲罢不能。KFC的意思是韩式煎花菜(Korean fired cauliflower)，辛辣与酸甜并重，令人叫绝。另一主打菜品为溏心蛋、脆鸡皮和豌豆炒米饭。Yardbird的鸡肝慕斯更是丝滑如梦。
With 52 seats on two industrial-chic floors, Yardbird has been so crazily jammed since its opening in 2011 that it has spawned a sequel, Ronin, a quieter, more intimate slip of a restaurant that echoes Yardbird’s celebration of sake and Japanese whiskeys but pivots from feather to fin, emphasizing raw fish.
Yardbird餐馆上下两层均为工业风格，共设52个座位，自2011年开业以来就十分火爆。催生了分店Ronin，气氛更为安静、私密。该店依然秉承Yardbird对于清酒和日式威士忌的崇尚，但从禽类转向鱼类，主打生鱼菜品。
Lovely as it is, Ronin lacks Yardbird’s oomph and free-spirited feeling, achieved through an egalitarian no-reservations policy, affordable prices, terrific cocktails, eclectic playlists (Kool and the Gang one minute, Boz Scaggs the next) and service that isn’t just convivial but conspiratorial, with waiters and waitresses leaning in close to give you their counsel. They’re from all over the world, befitting both Hong Kong’s polyglot populace and the route that Mr. Abergel and Ms. Jang traveled there.
Ronin虽有其可人之处，但缺乏Yardbird的魅力和自由感觉，这要归功于Yardbird的平等主义原则：不预定、价格亲民，而且鸡尾酒出色、音乐风格兼收并蓄（一会儿是库尔伙伴乐团[Kool  and the Gang]，一会儿是博兹•斯卡格斯[Boz Scaggs]）。餐厅招待会凑过来为客人提供建议，态度友好而低调。来自世界各地的招待既顺应了香港多语言的环境，也体现了阿贝热尔和詹恩一路走来的经历。
Duddell's
都爹利会馆
Hong Kong is like an experiment: just how high, low, hidden or improbably situated can a restaurant be? RyuGin, a relatively new, astronomically expensive place that takes its name and cues from its sire in Tokyo, is on the 101st floor of a skyscraper, off to itself. There are restaurants deep in malls, restaurants deep underground and “private kitchens” in reconfigured apartments with no signage. To get to one of them, Fa Zu Jie, I had to walk down the forlorn alley that leads to a popular new Mexican cantina, Brickhouse, then hang a right into a harshly lighted stairwell, go up one flight and guess that an unmarked doorbell more prominent than others was the one to press.
香港就像是个试验场：到底一个餐馆能开多高、多低或位于多么不可思议的位置？天空龙吟(RyuGin)是一个相对较新，但价格惊人的餐厅。名字与风格与其东京的总店一脉相承。位于一摩天大厦第101层的天空龙吟高高在上。但也有开在大型购物中心深处的餐厅、隐匿于地下的饭馆和设在改装公寓里，连招牌都没有的“私家小厨”。为了探访其中之一，法租界(Fa Zu Jie)，我不得不在迂回的巷子中穿行，巷子直通一家人气很旺的墨西哥餐厅砖房子(Brickhouse)，然后向右转入一个灯光刺眼的楼梯间，爬一层楼梯，猜想应该按下那个虽无标识但比较显眼的门铃。
Duddell’s, which opened in May, is tucked inconspicuously onto the third and fourth floors of a commercial building. Its polished woods evoke a boardroom, its gorgeous ink paintings an art gallery, its outdoor terrace a small urban park.
5月开张的都爹利会馆(Duddell’s)不显山不露水地栖身在一商务楼的3、4层。抛光的木质家具令人联想起董事会会议室，漂亮的水墨画令人联想起一个画廊，露台则像一个小型城市公园。
The menu, put together by the chef Siu Hinchi, is an epic and faithful tour of Cantonese cooking and a resounding affirmation of its uncluttered appeal. Crispy salted chicken and fried prawns with chile and coriander rested — and rose — on the excellence of their central ingredients. Fried beef cubes with wasabi soy glaze were saucier but no less impressive. None of this came cheap, but the quality of the food, the refined service and the sophisticated wine list left me feeling amply pampered for the price.
主厨萧显志(Siu Hinchi)拟定的菜单，彰显了粤菜的精华与传统，充分体现了这家餐厅的稳健诉求。盐香鸡和芹香炸虾胜依靠其一流的主要食材，并在其基础上有所升华。芥末香葱煎牛柳粒酱汁浓郁，让人回味。这些菜品都不便宜，但饭菜品质和细致的服务，以及精挑细选的酒单让我感到备受宠爱，物有所值。
LOST HEAVEN
花马天堂云南餐厅
The day after I dined at Lost Heaven, in Beijing, I went back to talk with the cooks and figure out what I’d had. I wasn’t sure.
在北京的花马天堂云南餐厅(Lost Heaven)用餐的次日，我回去和厨师谈话，希望搞清楚我都吃了些什么。但我仍不确定。
I knew that in the sensational Burmese tea leaf salad, there had been shredded cabbage, fish sauce and peanuts. But the other crunchy, salty bits? What were those?
我知道美味的缅甸茶叶沙拉中有碎卷心菜、鱼露和花生。但是另一种脆而咸的小东西又是什么呢？
One of the cooks answered by handing me a plate with three kinds of beans that weren’t instantly familiar. He identified one as an Indian yellow bean and another as a dal bean. The remaining one he couldn’t name. All had been toasted, he said, to tease out a nutty flavor.
其中一名厨师解答这个问题时，递给我一碟东西，里面装着三种不同的豆子，我不能立即辨识出它们。他说其中有一种印度黄豆，另一种是木豆。剩下的一种他也叫不出名字。他说，为了释放出坚果的滋味，他们对所有豆子进行了烘烤。
Lost Heaven, which opened last year, is more than great eating: it’s a learning experience. A teachable meal. It specializes in the Yunnan region’s cuisine, little known in Europe or the United States. That cuisine uses cheese to a degree that other Chinese cooking doesn’t, and it’s mad for mushrooms and flowers. All of this informs Lost Heaven’s menu, which additionally reflects the region’s proximity to Myanmar and Thailand, countries that the restaurant’s Taiwanese owners have lived in. Lime and lemon grass show up.
花马天堂于去年开业，它不仅能提供美味的食物，而且还能提供一次学习体验。我们能在用餐过程中学到东西。它主要提供云南地区的特色菜，欧洲和美国对此都几乎一无所知。这种烹饪方法会使用一定的奶酪，而中国其他地区不会如此，而且它还非常爱用蘑菇和鲜花。这些都体现在了花马天堂的菜单上，而且菜单还反映了云南与缅甸和泰国的接近程度。花马天堂的台湾老板曾住在这些国家。菜品中还经常出现青柠檬和柠檬草。
Beijing’s Lost Heaven has two identically named sisters in Shanghai. It arranges 200 high-backed seats that resemble thrones in a series of dark, sexy rooms whose Asian-temple motifs verge on kitsch.
北京的花马天堂在上海有两家名称相同的姐妹店。餐厅有一系列昏暗而性感的房间，里面的亚洲神庙图案略显低劣。这里设有200个靠背很高的座位，造型很像君主的宝座。
For a fantasia of this scale, the kitchen’s work is surprisingly precise. The menu alternates relatively ecumenical dishes like the Dali style chicken, which wears a deftly woven coat of red peppers, green onions, garlic and ginger, with idiosyncratic ones like scrambled eggs with white mushrooms. In nearly everything I had, the ingredients were first-rate and the spicing beautifully calibrated.
对于如此规模的人造神奇世界，厨房的工作异常精确。菜单上既有大理风味的鸡（厨师巧妙地给这道菜撒上了一层红椒、绿葱和姜蒜）等相对普通的菜品，也有炒鸡蛋配白蘑菇等特色菜肴。我所吃过的几乎所有东西的食材都堪称一流，香料的用量也恰到好处。
JING YAA TANG
京雅堂
There’s long been robust discussion, and no agreement, about where to find the best Peking duck in Beijing. Things just grew more complicated with the arrival of Jing Yaa Tang, which fired up its specially made wood-burning oven and began serving a rendition of this dish as superb as any I’ve tasted.
在北京，关于哪里的北京烤鸭最好一直存在热烈的讨论，但一直没有定论。京雅堂的到来使这个问题更复杂了，它使用以木头为燃料的特制烤炉，烤出来的鸭子是我吃过的烤鸭里最美味的。
The skin of this duck! Almost as thin as paper, almost as crisp as a potato chip. And the meat! Dark, rich — the chocolate of flesh. The pancakes that went with it were gossamer-delicate, and Jing Yaa Tang’s version of hoisin sauce, made with dried dates, was less syrupy and cloying than the usual. The overall effect was sublime.
鸭子的皮！它几乎薄如纸片，脆如薯条。还有肉！颜色深而口感醇厚——简直是肉中的巧克力。 随鸭子送来的薄饼非常薄，而京雅堂用干枣制成的海鲜酱也不像普通酱料那样浓稠而厚重。整体口感非常出众。
An admission and a caveat: I ate there in the days just before its formal opening, by special arrangement, because I didn’t want to miss a chance to try it. It wasn’t serving a full house and was putting its best foot forward.
我必须承认一件事，也必须提醒各位：我是在这家店正式开业前的几天，通过特殊安排去用餐的，因为我不想错过品尝它的机会。那一次京雅堂并没有准备很多菜，只是拿出了自己最拿手的东西。
But what a comely foot that was. Beyond its specialty of duck, Jing Yaa Tang skillfully executed a range of other dishes meant to represent a concise, pan-regional survey of China’s greatest hits, refracted through a modern sensibility. I was especially taken with a dish of Sichuan poached chicken and crushed peanuts in a gently fiery sesame sauce; shrimp fried rice with the restaurant’s outstanding XO sauce; and a clay pot of tender cod with caramelized baby onions.
可它拿手的菜实在令人印象深刻。除了特色菜烤鸭以外，京雅堂还匠心独具地提供了一系列其他菜品，希望对中国名菜进行一次简要的、跨地域的巡礼，并通过一种有现代感的菜式呈现这些菜肴。尤其令我难忘的是：一道由四川清蒸鸡和撒在微辣的麻酱里的花生末组成的菜、配有餐厅美味的XO酱的虾仁炒饭，以及用嫩鳕鱼和用糖炒过的小洋葱炖制的砂锅。
Jing Yaa Tang occupies a handsomely appointed space inside what is perhaps Beijing’s best boutique hotel, the Opposite House, and all the gorgeous plates were designed for the restaurant. It has an additional distinction: the chef Alan Yau, who created the Chinese restaurant Hakkasan, in London, consulted on the project, the first he has worked on in his ancestors’ land.
京雅堂空间宽敞，它所处的地方或许是北京最好的精品酒店——瑜舍酒店，那些精致的盘子都是为这家餐厅特别设计的。它还有另一个特别之处：大厨丘德威(Alan Yau)。丘德威曾在伦敦创建中餐馆Hakkasan，他在京雅堂做顾问，这是他在祖先的土地上参与的第一个项目。
ULTRAVIOLET
ULTRAVIOLET
29| Is this a game or a meal? The line blurs. You’re not given Ultraviolet’s address, but told to meet instead at Mr. & Mrs. Bund, the other restaurant whose kitchen is overseen by the chef Paul Pairet, a Frenchman who has made Shanghai his home for the last eight years. You and your nine tablemates are transported in a small bus to an odd, unmarked location away from the city’s commercial thoroughfares. In a blackened antechamber there, a heartbeat grows louder and louder; “Also Sprach Zarathustra,” the music familiar from “2001: A Space Odyssey,” kicks in. A wall slides open, and you’re ushered into the dining room.
这究竟是一场游戏还是一顿饭？界线很模糊。你没有拿到Ultraviolet的地址，只是被告知在Mr. & Mrs. Bund会合。这是由大厨保罗·派雷特(Paul Pairet)担任主厨的另一家餐厅。过去八年里，这个法国人一直住在上海。然后，你与其他九名同席用餐者将乘坐一辆巴士来到一个奇怪而不起眼的地方，远离市区的商业大街。在灯光阴暗的接待室里，心跳声越来越响；这时传来了电影《2001太空漫游》中人们熟悉的音乐“查拉图斯特拉如是说”(Also Sprach Zarathustra)。一扇墙滑开，你被带入餐厅。
There are as many servers as diners; the delivery of each dish is its own fanciful ballet. And for the first hour, most of those dishes are cheekily named, intricately wrought canapés from the school of molecular gastronomy.  Foie Gras — Can’t Quit is a slim, candied cigarette of liver, perched in a sliver ashtray. Micro Fish No Chips is a one-bite concentration of the flavor of battered fish with tartar sauce. It arrives with a glass of Scottish ale, and overhead projectors turn the table into a British flag as a Beatles song streams through unseen speakers.
这里的服务员与用餐者一样多，每道菜都以别出心裁的芭蕾舞形式端上。在第一个小时内，大部分菜肴的名字都比较俏皮，是一些属于分子美食学流派的做工复杂的开胃菜。“戒不了的鹅肝酱”是一道盛在轻薄烟灰缸中的由鹅肝制成的细甜卷。“不加薯条的小鱼”指的是塔塔酱配小块鱼排。一起呈上的还有一杯苏格兰麦芽酒。头顶上的投影仪在桌子上投射出英国国旗，隐藏的扬声器中传出披头士的歌曲。
The genius of Mr. Pairet and Ultraviolet is that just when all of this starts to feel too gimmicky, too fast, too much, he slows everything down for three relatively straightforward main courses — of sea bass, rack of lamb and Wagyu — that have a classic French pedigree and leave no doubts about his mettle as a cook. They’re a pivotal breather, and they were breathtaking.
派雷特和Ultraviolet的天才之处在于，就在这一切开始让人感觉太花哨、太快、太多的时候，他会放慢步调，带来三道相对简单的主菜——石斑鱼、羊肋骨肉和神户牛肉，毫无疑问，这些经典的法国菜充分展示了他的厨艺。它们既带来重要的喘息机会，又让人惊叹。
For dessert, it’s back to the circus, including a course of melted and dissolved Gummi bears. Yes, Gummi bears. The surrounding walls show footage of cartoon bears in a footrace, and as they circle the room, so do Mr. Pairet and a team of servers, running shadow laps. It’s ridiculous (and a total hoot).
甜点看起来像是回到了马戏团，比如融化的小熊软糖 。是的，小熊软糖。周边的墙壁上展示了卡通熊参加竞走的镜头，当它们环绕房间的时候，派雷特和一组服务员也跑了几圈。非常可笑（而且完全是起哄）。
Ultraviolet is luxury lunacy, costing about $400 a person, but that includes all the beverage pairings and the tip. It books up many, many months in advance. But the pinch and the headache are redeemed by its singularity, and its commotion is inextricable from the sense of wonder it stirs. In other words, it tracks the maddening and mesmerizing country that harbors it.
来Ultraviolet就餐是非常奢侈、疯狂的行为，这里的人均消费为400美元（约合2439元人民币），但这包含饮料和小费。而且需要提前数月预定。但它的独特性还是值得我们忍痛消费，它的骚动与它带来的神奇感觉不可分割。换句话说，它是在反映它所在的这个令人发狂的、迷人的国家。