Few things in life are guaranteed, but a researcher at China’s powerful economic planning agency says one thing is assured: 7.5 percent growth this year.
生活中没什么事能确保万无一失，但中国强大的经济规划机构的一名研究员说，有一件事已经是板上钉钉：今年7.5%的经济增速。
That promise was made by Song Li, who focuses on macroeconomics and finance at an institute under China’s National Development and Reform Commission, and cited in Monday’s People’s Daily. By Mr. Song’s reasoning, economic measures announced late last year will deliver a “reform dividend.” That, combined with an improving global economy, means “the expected target of about 7.5 percent growth this year is guaranteed,’’ he said.
做出上述承诺的是中国国家发展和改革委员会旗下一家研究所的研究员宋立，他主要从事宏观经济和金融方面的研究。周一，《人民日报》援引了宋立的说法。宋立分析说，去年年末公布的经济举措将带来“改革红利”。他说，加上当前世界经济复苏的趋势明显，这意味着“全年7.5%左右预期目标是有保障的”。
Prime Minister Li Keqiang announced last week at the opening of the annual session of China’s National People’s Congress that the country’s goal for growth was “around’’ 7.5 percent this year, the same as last year but lower than past targets of 8 percent annual growth. But he did not guarantee that number, saying it would take “arduous efforts” to meet it, and blaming China’s past growth-at-any-cost model of “inefficient and blind development” for the country’s heavy air pollution.
中国总理李克强上周在全国人大会议上宣布，中国今年的经济增长目标是7.5%“左右”，与去年持平，但低于这之前8%的年度经济增长目标。但他没有保证一定能达到这一增速，他说，要实现该目标必须要付出“艰辛努力”，并且表示，中国过去不惜一切代价换取经济增长的模式“低效盲目”，是中国严重空气污染的原因。
Stephen Green, head of research for Greater China at Standard Chartered in Hong Kong, said slowing growth in lending and a softer housing market may make it difficult for China to accomplish increased growth through government policies. In November, a Communist Party meeting announced a series of broad measures aimed at improving the quality of economic growth, including more emphasis on market forces and curbs on the power of state-owned companies in some sectors.
渣打银行(Standard Chartered)驻香港的大中华区研究负责人王志浩(Stephen Green)说，信贷增长放缓，加上房地产市场走软，可能让中国难以通过政府政策来实现经济的加速增长。11月，中国共产党在一次会议上宣布了一系列旨在改善经济增长质量的广泛措施，包括更加重视市场力量，以及限制国有公司在一些领域的势力。
“While it’s clear this government wants to deliver meaningful reforms, whether we get a ‘reform dividend’ in 2014 is an open question,’’ Mr. Green said in an email. “In contrast, slowing credit growth is going to drag, and the domestic housing market recovery appears to be easing. So it will be tough to hit 7.5% in reality, I think.’’
“尽管政府明显想要推行有意义的改革措施，我们能否在2014年获得‘改革红利’还是未知数，”王志浩在一封邮件中表示。“相比之下，信贷增长的减缓将拖累经济增长，而国内房地产市场的复苏似乎也正在放缓。因此，我认为，要达到7.5%的增速实际上很难。”