HONG KONG — China’s slowing economy appeared to stabilize somewhat in the second quarter, defying signs of weakness in the country’s traditional industrial base and more recent turbulence in its stock market.
香港——增长放缓的中国经济似乎在第二季度稳定了下来，与中国老工业基地出现颓势和近期股市动荡的迹象并不相符。
China’s official statistics agency said on Wednesday that gross domestic product rose 7 percent in the April to June quarter from a year earlier, beating economists’ expectations for a 6.8 percent increase. That matched the economy’s performance in the first quarter, and remained in line with the government’s target for full-year growth.
本周三，中国官方统计机构表示，4月至7月的国内生产总值较去年第二季度增长了7%，超出了经济学家的预期值6.8%。这与中国第一季度的表现相符，没有偏离通向政府全年增长目标的轨道。
“The national economy has been running within the proper range and the major indicators picking up steadily,” the National Bureau of Statistics said Wednesday in a statement. China is “showing moderate but stable and sound momentum of development,” it added.
“国民经济运行处在合理区间，主要指标逐步回暖，”中国国家统计局周三在一份声明中称。中国正在“呈现缓中趋稳、稳中有好的发展态势”。
While economists have for years expressed concerns about the quality of China’s economic data, separate quarterly figures on retail sales, investment and industrial production released Wednesday were all better than forecast.
虽然经济学家多年来一直表示对中国经济数据的质量感到担忧，但本周三公布的第二季度零售销售、投资和工业生产数字均高于预期。
Julian Evans-Pritchard, a China economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a research note on Wednesday that there were “good reasons to think that the latest figures are mirroring a genuine stabilization of conditions on the ground.”
本周三，研究中国的经济学家朱利安·埃文斯-普里查德(Julian Evans-Pritchard)在一份报告中写道：“有充分的理由认为，这些最新数字真实反应了中国经济企稳的状况”。
The economy appears to be benefiting from a number of policy changes, including interest-rate cuts and debt extensions for troubled local government borrowers. China’s housing market, which can have a broad impact on the rest of the economy, has in recent months shown signs of a nascent recovery.
中国经济似乎受益于一些政策变化，比如降息，为陷入困境的地方政府借款人提供债务延期等。最近几个月，对中国整体经济具有广泛影响的房地产市场也显示了新的回暖迹象。
At the same time, data for the second quarter probably received a boost from unprecedented trading turnover in China’s stock market, which has swung in dramatic boom-bust fashion over the past few months.
同时，中国股市前所未有的巨大交易额可能也提振了第二季度的经济数据。过去几个月里，中国股市在牛熊市之间翻转，震荡十分剧烈。
China’s market has partly recovered in recent days from a huge sell-off that began in June and erased several trillion dollars in market value. Shanghai shares opened more than 1 percent lower on Wednesday morning, and by midmorning had continued further downward despite the better-than-expected economic data.
6月开始的暴跌令中国股市蒸发了数万亿美元的市值，不过近日来已经有所反弹。上交所周三早盘低开逾1%，尽管经济数据好于预期，早盘却继续保持下行的趋势。