Seven years ago, the collapsing United States economy laid a dead hand on the rest of the world, a dubious role that was then assumed by Europe, whose sovereign debt crisis often pumped fear around the globe.
七年前，美国经济的崩溃给世界其他地方带来了灾难。在那之后，这种害群之马的角色又转由欧洲扮演，那里的主权债务危机常常在全球各地激起担忧。
Now, it appears to be China’s turn to cause havoc far beyond its borders.
现在，似乎轮到中国来引发远超国界的大破坏了。
China’s challenges have been debated for years, but in recent months they have taken on a greater importance in the minds of investors and policy makers. China was the focus when stocks sold off sharply during the summer, and such worries have again driven global markets down in recent days.
多年来人们一直在讨论中国面临的种种挑战，但近几个月来，它们在投资者和决策者的意识中变得越发重要。去年夏天股市大跌的时候，中国成为关注的焦点，最近几天，这样的担忧再次带动了全球市场的下行。
The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, for instance, plunged 2.4 percent on Thursday after the Chinese currency continued to fall and trading was halted on its stock market. The Dow Jones industrial average is now trading 9.8 percent below the all-time nominal high that it reached last year.
例如，在中国货币持续贬值、中国股市熔断之后，标准普尔500指数周四下挫了2.4%。道琼斯工业平均指数去年涨到历史高点，现在也已跌去了9.8%。
China’s convulsions have come at an inopportune time. The Federal Reserve recently increased interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade, a move that appears to have intensified an exodus from riskier markets. And there are signs of weakness in the United States economy, like the manufacturing sector.
中国的震荡来得不是时候。美联储(Federal Reserve)近日宣布了近十年来的第一次加息决定，似乎加剧了资本逃离高风险市场的趋势。还有一些迹象显示，美国经济的一些方面状况不佳，比如制造业。
The White House said on Thursday that it was monitoring the turbulence in the markets. “Obviously, we’re aware of the kind of volatility that we’ve seen in China over the last several days, and this has had an impact on markets in other countries, including ours,” said the White House press secretary, Josh Earnest. “So that’s certainly something that we’re closely watching.”
白宫周四表示，政府正在密切关注着市场动荡。“很显然，我们注意到在过去数天里，中国市场出现了波动性，并对其他国家的市场产生了影响，美国市场也包括在内”，白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)说。“所以，这个情况肯定在我们的密切关注之中。”
China is in many ways different from the United States or Europe, and its unique strengths and weaknesses are complicating efforts to assess the level of damage that the country might inflict on the rest of the world. This task is made even harder by the enmeshed nature of the world’s markets and economies. Problems in one large country can transmit to other places in several ways — and they may feed on themselves as they do so.
中国在很多方面不同于美国和欧洲。有人试图评估中国可能会对世界其他地区造成破坏的严重程度，但中国的独特优势和劣势让这种评估变得很复杂，而全球市场和经济盘根错节的特质更是让这一任务难上加难。如果某一个大国出现问题，就可能会通过多种方式波及其他地方——同时形成恶性循环。
But despite this murkiness, some analysts and economists say they are becoming less optimistic that the United States will remain unscathed by China’s struggles.
尽管情况扑朔迷离，一些分析人士和经济学者仍然表示，对于中国陷入困境、美国却毫发无损的前景，他们并没有以前那么乐观。
“If things were to get really disruptive, global growth would stall to where the U.S. would be affected,” said George Goncalves, a rates strategist at Nomura in New York. “These issues started percolating last year and they don’t just go away because the calendar year changed.”
“如果事情变得很糟，全球经济停滞就会严重到令美国受影响，”野村证券(Nomura)驻纽约的利率策略师乔治·古卡尔夫(George Goncalves)说。“这些问题去年就有了苗头，不会因为日历翻过了一个年头，问题就会自动消失。”
The slowing of China’s economy from historically high rates of growth has long been expected to weigh on growth elsewhere. “The China that had been growing at 10 percent for 30 years was a powerful source of fuel for much of what drove the global economy,” said Stephen S. Roach, a senior fellow at the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs at Yale. The growth rate has slowed to an official figure of around 7 percent. “That’s a material deceleration,” Mr. Roach said.
人们早就预期，中国经济的增速从历史峰值放缓，将会给其他国家的增长造成压力。“中国以10%的速度增长了30年，是推动全球经济增长的一股强大力量，”耶鲁大学杰克逊全球事务研究所(Jackson Institute for Global Affairs at Yale University)高级研究员斯蒂芬·S·罗奇(Stephen S. Roach)说。官方数字显示，中国增长速度放缓至7%左右。“这是不小的减速，”罗奇说。
Much now depends on how China manages its currency, the renminbi, which has fallen 7 percent since China devalued it in August. By allowing it to fall against other currencies, the Chinese authorities apparently hope to spur higher exports and reduce imports, bolstering Chinese businesses in the process.
目前，这在很大程度上取决于中国如何管理人民币汇率。自去年8月中国允许货币贬值以来，人民币已下跌7%。允许人民币对其他货币贬值，中国当局显然是希望能以此刺激出口增长、减少进口，在这一过程中给中国企业提供支持。
Countries devalue all the time without causing too many shock waves. But it is not clear how far the authorities want the currency to fall. “Mere uncertainty about where the exchange rate will ultimately be creates higher risk premiums in financial markets,” said Steven Wieting, global chief investment strategist at Citigroup’s private bank. “That can diminish when there is stability, but we don’t have stability right now.”
全球一直有这个或那个国家将自己的货币贬值，不曾引发太大的冲击波。但是，中国当局想要人民币贬值到何种程度，目前还是个未知数。“不知道汇率最终会降到哪个点，单单这种不确定性就足以在金融市场制造更高的风险，”花旗集团(Citigroup)私人银行部门的全球首席投资策略师史蒂芬·维廷(Steven Wieting)说。“如果市场稳定的话，这种风险可以减少，但现在我们缺的就是稳定。”
And there are ways in which a Chinese devaluation could go wrong. A devaluation could end up being unsettlingly large. China, for instance, slashed the value of the renminbi in 1994, an event that investors have not forgotten.
而且，中国的货币贬值还有可能出现问题。贬值幅度最后可能会大到令人不安的程度。比如，中国在1994年曾让人民币大贬值，许多投资人至今记忆犹新。
A steep drop in the renminbi could do significant harm to the real economies of other countries. A much cheaper renminbi could, for instance, make it much harder for companies in Indonesia or South Korea to compete in world markets against Chinese rivals. Some countries might then slash the value of their currencies to regain competitiveness, setting off a currency war.
人民币大幅贬值可能会对其他国家的实体经济带来重创。比如，人民币汇率进一步降低，会使印度尼西亚与韩国的企业难以在全球市场上和中国对手展开竞争。一些国家或许也会因此使本国货币贬值，以便重新获得竞争优势，从而引发一场货币战争。
In such a scenario, the dollar, as a safe haven currency, would most likely strengthen, creating a headwind for United States corporations that export into global markets. A stronger dollar would make imports into the United States cheaper, potentially intensifying the forces that have pushed inflation down to a level that has made the Federal Reserve nervous. “Inflation is now going to have a hard time rising,” said Mr. Goncalves, the strategist.
这种情况下，美元作为一种安全的避险货币就很有可能会走强，进而给面向全球市场出口产品的美国企业带来直接的阻力。美元走强还会使美国进口产品价格降低，有可能会加强一些已经在推低美国通胀水平的因素，而现在的低通胀已经让美联储感到不安了。“那样的话，美国的通胀率就很难走高，”策略师古卡尔夫说。
Fearing that the United States economy might soon sag, investors would most likely clamor for the Fed to hold off on increasing interest rates. A monthslong guessing game over monetary policy could then occur, stoking further uncertainty.
因为担心美国经济也许会很快陷入停滞，投资者很有可能会强烈呼吁美联储推迟提高利率。这大概又会带来一轮长达数月的有关美国货币政策的猜测，由此引发更多的不确定性。
Global investors might soon also have to contend with high numbers of defaults in China’s corporate sector. Chinese companies have borrowed billions of dollars in recent years. As the renminbi falls, many companies may find it harder to pay back dollar debts.
全球投资者可能很快就会必须面对中国企业的大量违约行为。最近几年，中国公司借贷了成千上万亿美元的资金。随着人民币贬值，很多企业可能会发现自己更难以偿还贷款。
Most large foreign banks do not appear to be holding dangerous amounts of dollar-denominated debt owed by Chinese corporations. As a result, such banks may avoid taking the sort of losses they suffered on mortgage bonds during the 2008 financial crisis. Still, rising defaults could harm Chinese investors and banks, creating the sort of headlines that could at least cause global investors to scale back their risk-taking.
大多数大型外资银行提供给中国企业的以美元结算的贷款规模，似乎都没有大到危险的地步。所以此类银行或许能够避免出现2008年美国金融危机期间在抵押债券方面遭受的那种巨额损失。但是，违约增加的话，可能会给中国投资者和银行带来损失，由此引发的媒体报道至少会让全球投资者在承担风险方面变得更为谨慎。
Still, the current storm in the markets may pass, as it did last year.
不过，目前的市场风暴也许还是会过去，就像去年的情况一样。
The recovery going on in the rest of the world may yet survive China’s turbulence. Policy makers in Europe, Japan and the United States can always respond aggressively, as they have done in past crises. The dollar could weaken under such stimulus.
经过中国这轮市场动荡的冲击，世界其他地方的经济可能还是会持续恢复。欧洲、日本和美国的决策者总还可以积极应对，就像他们在过去历次危机中所做的那样。在这样的刺激政策之下，美元可以走弱。
And China may just be going through a necessary but bumpy adjustment, not a full-blown shakeout.
况且，中国可能只是在经历一个有些颠簸但颇为必要的调整阶段，而不是在进入真正的大衰退。
China may, for instance, be able to manage a steady devaluation and absorb corporate defaults while avoiding a dangerous level of financial instability. Its government, after all, has far deeper pockets than the Europeans at the height of the Continent’s crisis. And on some measures, China is still doing rather well. Growth may be slowing, but the Chinese government may ultimately care more about employment than headline growth figures, said Mr. Roach of Yale. And he noted that China’s jobs numbers had been healthy in recent months. This could be a sign that China’s plan to shift more of its economy away from manufacturing and toward the services sector, which creates more jobs, is bearing fruit. “The bottom line for the economy is that it’s still growing fast enough to create a lot of jobs,” Mr. Roach said.
比如，中国也许可以实现人民币平稳贬值，消化企业贷款违约，同时避免出现达到危险程度的金融动荡。毕竟，中国政府的钱袋子比处在危机最低谷的欧洲要宽裕得多。而且在某些方面，中国的表现依然不错。耶鲁大学研究员罗奇表示，尽管经济增长速度是在放缓，但相比于新闻里出现的增长数字，中国政府最终可能更关心的是就业问题。他指出，最近几个月，中国的就业数据一直比较稳健。这可能意味着，中国将本国经济更多地从制造业转向可以创造更多工作机会的服务业的计划，正在取得成效。“中国经济发展的底线是，它还在增长，足以创造很多工作机会，”罗奇说。