RIO DE JANEIRO — Extending a lifeline to the beleaguered Brazilian president, Chinese officials announced a sweeping list of investment plans and loans in Brazil on Tuesday totaling dozens of billions of dollars, including in a contentious project for a railway to the Pacific that would cut through the Amazon rain forest.
里约热内卢——周二，中国官员向处境艰难的巴西总统伸出援手，针对该国宣布了总计数百亿美元的各种投资计划和贷款，其中包括对一个有争议的铁路项目的投资。该铁路将穿过亚马孙雨林，直抵太平洋。
The deals, announced during a visit by China’s premier, Li Keqiang, come at a crucial time for President Dilma Rousseff, who is dealing with a sluggish economy, austerity measures and a colossal bribery scandal involving the national oil company and her Workers Party.
中国总理李克强在访问巴西期间宣布相关协议时，该国总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)正处在一个至关重要的时间点，疲于应对经济不景气、紧缩措施和一起巨大的贿赂丑闻。该国的国家石油公司及她所在的劳工党(Workers Party)均卷入了该丑闻。
For some foreign companies, the graft scandal has heightened perceptions that investing in Brazil is an uncertain proposition.
对部分外国公司来说，贿赂丑闻突显出的感觉是，在巴西投资是一个具有很大不确定性的事情。
But Chinese banks and companies seem to remain sanguine about raising their profile in Brazil with new deals in energy, banking and agriculture, among other industries. Petrobras, the state-controlled oil company at the heart of the bribery scandal, is to get about $7 billion in Chinese financing.
但中国的银行和公司，似乎依然持乐观态度，愿意通过能源、银行和农业等领域的新协议来扩大自己对巴西的投入。在贿赂丑闻中处于风口浪尖上的国有石油公司巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)将在中国提供的资金中拿到约70亿美元（约合430亿元人民币）。
Officials also said Chinese and Brazilian banks would create a joint $50 billion fund to invest in Brazil’s infrastructure. After leaving Brazil, Mr. Li plans this week to lay out investments in Chile, Colombia and Peru.
官员还表示，中巴两国的银行将共同出资500亿美元设立一个基金，投资巴西的基础设施。离开巴西后，李克强计划在本周公布在智利、哥伦比亚和秘鲁的投资。
“China is seizing this moment to promote its own interests and diversify its approach to investing in Latin America,” said Margaret Myers, a specialist on China at the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington policy group.
“中国正在利用此刻的时机，提升自己的利益，让自己在拉美的投资方式多元化，”华盛顿政策组织美洲国家对话组织(Inter-American Dialogue)的中国问题专家玛格丽特·迈尔斯(Margaret Myers)说。
Some previously announced Latin American projects involving China have not materialized, and the same may be true for some of the new deals, according to trade specialists.
一些贸易专家称，之前宣布的一些涉华拉美项目尚未兑现，部分新协议可能也会步其后尘。
While work has started in Nicaragua on a canal backed by a Chinese billionaire, another venture floated in Colombia, for a railway to the Pacific, has not advanced.
尼加拉瓜的一条运河得到了中国一名亿万富翁的资金支持，已经开工，但在哥伦比亚提出的直抵太平洋的铁路项目，却还没有进展。
The plan in Brazil for a transcontinental railway, aimed at reducing freight costs, has already prompted skepticism and resistance.
为降低货运成本而在巴西修建一条贯穿大陆的铁路的计划已经引起了质疑和反对。
To begin with, Brazilian companies have been unable to complete some of their own megaprojects. One such project is the Transnordestina, a futuristic railway in northeast Brazil that was abandoned after it ran into a series of financial and bureaucratic hurdles. Over the past decade, the authorities envisioned building a bullet train to connect Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo by the 2014 World Cup. (The project remains on the drawing board.)
首先，巴西的公司无力完成自己的一些超大项目。Transnordestina就是其中之一。在遇到一系列的资金和政府审批障碍后，这条具有未来风格的巴西东北部铁路被放弃了。过去十年里，当局还设想在2014年世界杯(World Cup)之前建一条高铁线路，连接里约热内卢和圣保罗。（该项目至今仍处在设计阶段。）
Previous ventures elsewhere in Brazil have been swallowed by the jungle.
巴西其他地方的一些旧有项目则已被热带森林吞没。
One is the Madeira-Mamoré Railroad, built a century ago in the Amazon during the rubber boom; Brazilians called it the Devil’s Railway because of the thousands who died while building it. The new China-backed project might be built near that route, which cut through Brazil’s remote Rondônia State.
马德拉-马莫雷铁路(Madeira-Mamoré Railroad)便是其中之一。处在亚马孙雨林里的这条铁路建于一个世纪前的橡胶大繁荣时期。因为有数千人在修路期间丧命，该铁路被巴西人称作魔鬼铁路(Devil’s Railway)。其线路穿过了巴西偏远的朗多尼亚州，由中国资助的新项目可能会建在附近。
“One of the biggest problems with such a project is its impact on forests, which could complicate the permitting process,” said Paulina Garzón, director of the China-Latin America Initiative for Sustainable Investments, a group in Washington that raises awareness about the environmental impact of Chinese projects. “Another important question is whether a railway like this is truly needed, or if it’s a way to strengthen Chinese companies.”
“这种项目最大的问题之一是它对森林的影响，这可能会让审批过程变得复杂，”中国拉美可持续投资行动(China-Latin America Initiative for Sustainable Investments)的负责人保利娜·加尔松(Paulina Garzón)说。位于华盛顿的这个机构致力于提高对中国项目的环境影响的认识。“另一个重要的问题是，这样的铁路是真的有必要，还是只是一种壮大中国公司的方式。”
Either way, the timing of Mr. Li’s visit is a sign of China’s efforts to bolster its position as Brazil’s leading trading partner ahead of Ms. Rousseff’s planned visit to Washington next month, when her government and the Obama administration are expected to ease tensions over revelations that the National Security Agency spied on Ms. Rousseff and her top aides.
不管是哪一种情况，李克强到访的时机都标志着在罗塞夫访问华盛顿前夕，中国为巩固其作为巴西最大贸易伙伴的地位所作的努力。罗塞夫定于下月访问华盛顿。届时，她领导的政府和奥巴马政府有望缓解国家安全局(National Security Agency)暗中监视罗塞夫及其左膀右臂一事被公之于众所引发的紧张关系。
Speaking to reporters in Brasília, the capital, while describing the deals with China, Ms. Rousseff said that Brazil and China should join forces to press for changes at multilateral finance institutions based in Washington, like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
在首都巴西利亚面向记者发表讲话时，罗塞夫介绍了与中国签订的协议，并表示巴西和中国应该携手，要求改革设在华盛顿的多边金融机构，如国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)和世界银行(World Bank)。