A 26-year-old Chinese cyclist is set to be the first person from his country to participate in the Tour de France when the sport’s biggest race begins next week.
自行车运动中规模最大的比赛环法自行车赛(Tour de France)将于下周开赛，届时，一名26岁的自行车运动员将成为首位来自中国的选手。
Team Giant-Shimano announced on Wednesday that the cyclist, Ji Cheng, had made its list of nine riders expected to participate in the 21-stage, 2,272-mile race. The 101st edition of the race begins in Leeds, England, on July 5.
捷安特-禧玛诺车队(Team Giant-Shimano)在周三宣布，计成成功入选九人名单，他们将参加21个赛段的比赛，全长2271英里（约合3658公里）。第101届环法自行车赛将于7月5日在英国利兹启程。
Mr. Ji has competed in professional cycling’s two other grand tours, the Vuelta a España in 2012 and the Giro d’Italia in 2013.
计成曾参加过另外两个重要的职业自行车赛，2012年的环西自行车赛(Vuelta a España)和2013年的环意自行车赛(Giro d’Italia)。
Although China was once famous for its streets clogged with bicycles, it has lagged in competitive road cycling. The state sports system has focused on track cycling, which sees smaller fields competing for more medals at the Olympics. At the 2012 London Olympics, Chinese track cyclists won two silvers and a bronze.
虽然中国一度因为满街的自行车而闻名，但该国在竞争激烈的公路自行车赛中一直处于落后。中国的举国体制注重场地自行车赛，奥运会场地赛的参赛者较少，因此能获得更多奖牌。在2012年伦敦奥运会中，中国的场地自行车选手赢得了两枚银牌和一枚铜牌。
Mr. Ji, from the northern city of Harbin, attended a Chinese sports school as a runner before moving to track cycling and then road cycling.
计成来自中国北部城市哈尔滨，在投身场地自行车和公路自行车运动之前，他曾是中国一所体校的赛跑选手。
While most professional cyclists come from Europe, the Americas and Australia, the sport is making inroads in Africa and Asia. “Having Cheng in the team as the first Chinese rider ever to ride the Tour de France will be huge for him and his country, and we look forward to seeing the impact this has on the globalization of the sport,” the Team Giant-Shimano coach, Rudi Kemna, said in a statement announcing the team selection.
大部分专业车手都来自欧洲、美国和澳大利亚，然而这项运动正在非洲和亚洲大行其道。捷安特-禧玛诺车队的教练鲁迪·科姆纳(Rudi Kemna)在宣布车队入选环法自行车赛的声明中表示，“计成是车队里第一位参加环法自行车赛的中国车手，这对他本人和他的国家意义重大，我们期待能见证此事给这项运动的全球化带来的影响。”
Although Mr. Ji’s inclusion in Giant-Shimano’s Tour de France team marks a high point for Chinese cycling, his role in the race will be decidedly humble. In previous races he has been known for his tireless work chasing breakaways to help position his team’s talented sprinters for wins on flat stages.
虽然计成入选环法自行车赛捷安特-禧玛诺车队名单标志着中国自行车运动的一个重要时刻，但在此次比赛中，他无疑处于较为次要的地位。在之前的比赛中，他以不知疲倦地追逐和车队拉开距离的对手著称，通过这种方式协助本队的天才冲刺队员们抢位，以赢得平路赛段的胜利。