Of all the changes to sweep China since the death of Mao Zedong in 1976 — stock markets, private cars, fashion — one thing seemed not to have changed: No hugging. Chinese were physically reserved.
1976年毛泽东去世以来，种种变化席卷中国大地——股市、私人汽车和时装——但有一件事似乎没有变：人们不爱相互拥抱。中国人在身体接触上很保守。
That’s changing now.
这一点如今也在发生改变。
Recently, it seems like everyone is hugging. Friends are hugging. Family members are hugging. In hugging between Chinese and non-Chinese, it was non-Chinese who once foisted physical affection on the Chinese. Today it may be a Chinese initiating contact. The tables are turning.
最近，似乎所有人都开始拥抱彼此了。朋友间相互拥抱，家人间也相互拥抱。以往中国人和外国人之间的拥抱都是外国人强加给中国人的。现在，这种拥抱也可能是中国人发起的。真是时过境迁。
My children’s Chinese piano teacher hugged my Irish mother-in-law the first time she met her, last year. My mother-in-law was moved, but the Irish, like the English, aren’t really known for overt displays of physical affection, and the surprise was written on her face.
去年，我家孩子的中国钢琴老师首次见到我婆婆，并拥抱了她。婆婆是爱尔兰人，就像英国人一样，并不爱用身体动作表达感情。因此，虽然她很感动，但脸上还是写着惊讶。
Teachers are joining in. In Nanjing, the Liuhe District Experimental Elementary School began a class in emotional intelligence last fall, concerned that children lacked it and would thus be held back in the world, the newspaper Modern Express reported.
教师们也加入拥抱的行列。据《现代快报》报道，由于担心孩子们情商不足，在全球竞争中落后，南京的六合区实验小学去年秋天开设了情商课程。
The third graders’ homework: Hug your parents tonight. Sixty schools in the district now have emotional intelligence classes, the newspaper said.
三年级的作业：今晚拥抱你的父母。《现代快报》称，如今该区已有60所学校开设了情商课。
Most friends I’ve asked say the change is due to exposure to the West, especially huggy North America. But other Asian nations — even formal Japan — may also be involved, according to a recent article in China Daily headlined ‘‘Students Use Hugs to Ease Tensions.” It described ‘‘hugging activities’’ between a group of Japanese studying in Beijing and Chinese passers-by, in which the students hugged about 200 Chinese in an effort to warm feelings between people of the two nations sparring over territory in the East China Sea.
我请教的朋友中，大多数认为这个变化是因为受了西方人的影响，尤其是喜欢拥抱的北美人。根据《中国日报》最近刊登的一篇名为《学生利用拥抱缓解对立》(Students Use Hugs to Ease Tensions)的英文报道，其他亚洲国家——就连一本正经的日本——可能也受到了影响。文章记录了一群在北京学习的日本人和中国路人的“拥抱活动”。这些学生拥抱了大约200名中国人，目的是增进在东海上存在领土争议的中日两国之间民众的感情。
The initiator, Watanabe Kohei, said, ‘‘The Chinese were a bit shy in giving hugs,’’ but friendly.
活动的发起者渡边浩平(Watanabe Kohei)说，“中国人拥抱的时候有点害羞”，但是很友好。
Not everyone is joining in. Hugging is still not appropriate in a professional context — unless everyone is drunk. The website eDiplomat is probably right to advise foreign diplomats not to hug their Chinese counterparts. ‘‘The Chinese dislike being touched by strangers,’’ it warns. ‘‘Do not touch, hug, lock arms, back slap or make any body contact.’’
并不是所有人都在拥抱。在职业场合拥抱仍然不恰当——除非人人都喝大了。eDiplomat网站建议外国外交官不要拥抱中国同行，这个建议很可能说对了。网站警告，“中国人不喜欢陌生人碰他们。不要和他们触碰、拥抱、跨胳膊、拍他们后背或进行任何身体接触。”
In a post titled ‘‘Why We Chinese Don’t Hug,’’ the blogger Zhuhai Ah Long attributed the reluctance to sexual frisson. Hug a member of the opposite sex, and, ‘‘What if ripples start undulating in the girl’s heart?’’ Plus, he said, Chinese prefer quality to quantity.
在一篇名为《我们中国人为什么不拥抱》的文章里，博客作者“珠海阿龙”认为，人们不愿意拥抱是因为可能让人意乱神迷。抱一下异性朋友，“心里会不会荡漾起一丝涟漪？”此外，他说，中国人更重视质量而不是数量。
‘‘We want each time that members of the opposite sex touch to be a thrill,’’ he wrote. ‘‘If we’re hugging all day long, hugging people who shouldn’t be hugged, then the thrill will evaporate, and that’s just a waste.’’
他写道，“我们希望每一次两性的身体接触都能带来充分的刺激与快感。要是整天逮谁抱谁，把不该抱的也抱了，这种快感就会降低，这是一种浪费。”
In 2003, Lu Ming, a Chinese author based in the United States, wrote a book titled ‘‘Chinese Lack Hugs.’’
2003年，旅美华人作家鲁鸣写了一本题为《缺少拥抱的中国人》的书。
‘‘Back then people really hugged very little, even in families,’’ he wrote in an email. ‘‘I cannot remember being hugged by my father and mother.’’
他在一封邮件中写道，“那时候人们真的几乎不拥抱，即便是在家里。我不记得父亲和母亲拥抱过我。”
‘‘That’s changed now, and I think it’s good,’’ he said. ‘‘We can use body culture to overcome Chinese people’s tradition of reserve. Limbs are also a language and a form of contact. A sincere hug makes people feel warm and comforts them.’’
他说，“现在已经改变了，我认为这很好。我们可以使用肢体语言文化克服中国人传统上的保守。肢体语言也是一种语言，一种接触。一个真诚的拥抱让人感到温暖和安慰。”
Mr. Lu attributes the change to increasing international contact, the media, Chinese living overseas and reading foreign literature. He made a point of hugging his mother and sisters when he visited China.
鲁明把这一变化归因于越来越多的国际交流、媒体、旅居海外的华人和外国文学。他回中国探亲时总是要拥抱母亲和姐妹。
‘‘When my mother was still living and in good health, I would hug her, and she was very moved. And my sisters would say, ‘You are already Westernized,’ but they liked it. Life is very short, and you don’t know when you will see someone again.’’
“我妈妈还活着而且身体健康的时候，我总是拥抱她，她也很感动。我的姐妹说，‘你可真是西化了’，但她们喜欢被拥抱。生命短暂，你不知道下一次相见是什么时候。”
Arriving in Berlin from China recently, I watched as two generations of Chinese hugged at the airport, a younger couple greeting an older couple who had been on my flight.
最近从中国飞抵柏林时，我看到一对年轻的夫妇前来迎接和我同机抵达的一对老年夫妇，两代中国人拥抱在一起。
The older couple appeared to be the young woman’s parents. Mother and daughter hugged. That wasn’t too surprising. Women are huggier than men, everywhere. But then the young man stepped up to the older man and hugged him. And the older man hugged him back, stiffly, but smiling.
老年夫妇似乎是青年女子的父母。母亲和女儿拥抱了一下。这不奇怪。女性比男性更爱拥抱，在哪都是如此。但年轻男子也上前拥抱了老年男子。老年男子搂住了他，有点僵硬，但满脸笑容。