HONG KONG — China is burning through its huge stockpile of foreign exchange reserves at the fastest pace yet as it seeks to prop up its currency and stem a rising tide of money flowing out of the country.
香港——中国正在以迄今最快的速度降低其庞大的外汇储备，因为政府在为本国货币寻找支撑，同时希望遏止不断增长的资金外流大潮。
Even after a record monthly decrease of nearly $100 billion, China still has the world’s biggest cache of foreign reserves, standing at $3.56 trillion at the end of last month, government data showed Monday.
政府周一发布的数字显示，即使在减少了创月度记录的近1000亿美元之后，中国仍拥有世界上最大的、总额为3.56万亿美元的外汇储备。
The total has declined steadily from a peak of nearly $4 trillion in June of last year, as slowing economic growth has caused investors to move money out of the country in search of better returns elsewhere. As a result, the Chinese central bank has had to sell huge amounts from its foreign reserves to maintain the strength of the nation’s currency, the renminbi.
外汇储备总额已经从去年6月的近4万亿美元的峰值持续下降，因为中国经济增长放缓，这使投资者资金流向国外，以在其他地方寻找更好的回报。结果是，中国央行不得不大量出售外汇，以维持人民币的价值。
The exodus of investors’ money accelerated last month after China made the surprise decision on Aug. 11 to devalue the renminbi by the most in over two decades. China’s foreign reserves fell $94 billion in the month, according to Monday’s report, as the central bank mounted an aggressive defense of the renminbi.
中国在8月11日出人意料地决定，让人民币以20年来的最大幅度贬值，这也导致了投资者资金外流的速度加快。周一发布的报告显示，中国外汇储备8月份减少了940亿美元，同时，央行采取积极行动维持人民币的价值。
Investors have been jolted in recent months by the sudden change to China’s exchange rate policy and by the government’s bungled handling of a stock market bailout. The sell-off in shares in Shanghai have become steeper in recent weeks, sending ripples through markets around the world and heightening worries that apparent confusion in Beijing could be a sign of more trouble to come.
最近几个月里，中国汇率政策的突然变化，加上政府笨手笨脚的救股行为，让投资者受到多次震动。抛售行为最近几周在上海股市上变得更加频繁，并波及到世界各地的股票市场，引起人们进一步担心，北京看来不清楚该采取什么步骤，这可能是更多麻烦即将到来的迹象。
The downward pressure on the renminbi reflects the bleaker prospects for China’s economy as growth appears to be slowing faster than previously reported. Also on Monday, China’s statistics agency revised down its estimate for gross domestic product in 2014, saying the economy had grown by 7.3 percent last year compared with the 7.4 percent previously reported.
人民币贬值的压力反映出，随着增长放缓的幅度似乎比之前报道的更大，中国经济的前景令人担忧。同样在周一，中国国家统计局将2014年的国内生产总值增长自原先发表的7.4%下修正至7.3%。
The manufacturing sector grew faster last year than previously estimated, the agency said, but the service sector — specifically financial services like securities companies and banks, which benefited from a booming stock market — grew slower last year than originally reported.
统计局表示，去年制造业的增长比预期更快，不过服务业——尤其是曾受惠于牛市的券商与银行等金融服务业——增长低于预期。
Pockets of weakness can be seen across China’s economy.
中国经济的方方面面都出现了经济疲软的迹象。
“Business this year has been tough, and getting more tough as each month goes by,” Du Shengdu, a manager in the sales department of Hebei Hongchi Bicycles, a bicycle manufacturer in central China. “Fewer customers are asking for quotes, and even for those who ask for quotes, a lot of times, no order ultimately materialized.”
“今年的生意很难做，而且一个月比一个月难，”自行车制造商河北宏驰自行车有限公司的销售部经理杜生笃（音）表示，“要我们报价的客户减少了。就算有人询了价，很多时候也不能转化为订单。”
But at least some exporters report seeing a recent uptick in businesses on expectations of a weaker renminbi. A weaker currency makes China’s products relatively cheaper for overseas buyers. Economists have said the initial drop in the currency’s value of around 3 percent against the dollar would have only a very limited impact, but the effect could be exacerbated if the currency yields to market pressure for further depreciation.
不过，还是有一些出口商表示，他们的生意因人民币走弱的预期，近来有了起色。货币走弱使得中国产品成为海外买家相对便宜的选择。有经济学家曾说，人民币起初对美元贬值3%的效果非常有限，但如果它顺从市场要求继续贬值，就可能会有显著影响。
Kellen Chan, a sales manager in the export department at Guangzhou Xinxiu Fashion Bags, a handbag maker in the southern city of Guangzhou, said that business was slow earlier in the summer, but that it had started picking up more recently.
广州手提包制造商新秀时尚提包公司外销部销售经理陈美玲说，公司今年刚入夏时生意不是太好，不过最近已有所回升。
“We are getting a lot more inquiries starting from last month,” Ms. Chan said. “It is probably due to the devaluation of the renminbi.”
“上个月开始，跟我们接洽的人增加了。”陈美玲说，“可能是因为人民币贬值。”
Since the devaluation, China’s central bank has kept the currency more or less steady at roughly 6.4 renminbi to the dollar. But the move raised expectations that the renminbi would weaken further, leading to the central bank’s selling of foreign reserves.
自人民币贬值以来，中国央行将其币值维持在大约1美元兑换6.4人民币上下。不过此举仍引发了人民币继续贬值的预期，促使央行开始出售外汇储备。
Some analysts interpreted the drop of nearly $100 billion as relatively good news, compared with estimates that the decrease could have been double that amount.
一些分析人士的解读是，中国的外汇储备虽然减少了将近1000亿美元，相对于原先预估减少两倍以上的数目，这已经算是好消息了。
China’s central bank “is not burning through its reserves as quickly as many had believed,” Julian Evans-Pritchard, a China economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a report Monday evening after the data was released.
研究中国的凯投宏观(Capital Economics)经济师朱利安·埃文斯-普里查德(Julian Evans-Pritchard)在周一数据公布后所写的一篇报告中指出，中国央行“消耗外储的速度不如许多人预料的那么快。”