BEIJING — The Chinese foreign minister took a strong stand Saturday on China’s growing territorial disputes with neighboring nations, saying that “there is no room for compromise” with Japan and that China would “never accept unreasonable demands from smaller countries,” an apparent reference to Southeast Asian nations.
北京——周六，中国外交部长在与邻国日渐升温的边界争议问题上展现出了强硬的态度，表示在与日本的问题上，“没有妥协的余地”，还说中国“绝不接受以小取闹”，此处显然是指东南亚国家。
The foreign minister, Wang Yi, a former ambassador to Japan, made his comments at a news conference on the fourth day of the National People’s Congress, an annual meeting of China’s rubber-stamp legislature. Mr. Wang took questions from foreign and Chinese news organizations on the same morning he learned that a Malaysia Airlines flight bound for Beijing had disappeared, and he spoke on a range of subjects that included Ukraine, the Korean Peninsula and relations between China and the United States. Mr. Wang stressed several times that China was committed to regional peace.
外交部长王毅曾担任驻日大使。周六是中国“橡皮图章”式的立法机构——全国人民代表大会的年度会议第四天，王毅在一场新闻发布会上发表了此番言论。就在他回答中外新闻机构各种问题的同一天早上，他也获知一架马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)飞北京的客机失去了联系。王毅在会上谈及了乌克兰、朝鲜半岛、中美关系等一系列问题，并数次强调了中国维护区域和平的决心。
But Mr. Wang did not mince words on the subject of Japan and its prime minister, Shinzo Abe, who has angered Chinese leaders with recent public remarks on China-Japan relations and with a visit in December to the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, where Japanese war dead are honored, including 14 Class A war criminals. In the East China Sea, China refuses to accept Japan’s administration of, or its claims to, islands that Japan calls the Senkaku and China calls the Diaoyu.
但王毅在谈到日本及其首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)时却毫不客气。安倍去年12月参观了位于东京的的靖国神社，那里供奉着日本战争亡灵，其中就有14名甲级战犯。他还在最近就中日关系公开发表了一系列言论，这都触怒了中国领导人。对于东海上那些日本称为尖阁诸岛，中国称为钓鱼岛的岛屿，中国拒绝承认日本的控制，或是其相关领土主张。
“On the two issues of principle — history and territory — there is no room for compromise,” Mr. Wang said in answer to a question from a Japanese reporter on the deterioration of China-Japan relations. “If some people in Japan insist on overturning the verdict on its past aggression, I don’t think the international community and all peace-loving people in the world will ever tolerate or condone that.”
“在历史和领土这两个原则问题上，没有妥协的余地，”王毅在回答一位日本记者提出的中日关系僵局问题时这样回答。“如果日本某些人执意要为当年的侵略历史翻案，我相信国际社会以及世界上一切爱好和平的人士也都绝不会容忍和姑息。”
Tensions between China and Japan have been playing out in diplomacy around the globe. In January, the Chinese ambassador to Britain and his Japanese counterpart both wrote op-ed articles for The Daily Telegraph in which they equated the other country to Lord Voldemort, the villain in the Harry Potter series. The two ambassadors even refused to sit at the same table during a televised BBC interview. Also in January, Mr. Abe told an audience at the Davos conference in Switzerland that the rivalry between China and Japan was similar to that between Germany and Britain before World War I, meaning their differences could supersede their close trade ties.
中日之间的紧张关系不断显现在国际外交的各个领域里。1月，中国驻英国大使与日本驻英国大使在给《每日电讯报》(the Daily Telegraph)的观点文章中，都将对方国家比作《哈利波特》系列中的反面人物伏地魔(Lord Voldemort)。这两位大使甚至拒绝在BBC播出的一次访谈中同桌而坐。1月，安倍晋三在瑞士达沃斯讲话时对众人说，中日之间的竞争类似于一战前德国和英国之间的竞争，意指两者的差异可能会压倒它们之间紧密的贸易纽带。
“I wish to emphasize that 2014 is not 1914, still less 1894,” Mr. Wang said Saturday. “Instead of using Germany before the First World War as an object lesson, why not use Germany after the Second World War as a role model?”
“我想强调的是，2014不是1914，2014更不是1894，”王毅周六说道，“与其拿一战前的德国做文章，不如以二战后的德国作榜样。”
He added, “Only by making a clean break with the past and stopping going back on one’s own words can the relationship emerge from the current impasse and have a future.”
他还表示，“只有认真清算过去，不再出尔反尔，才能走出僵局，开辟未来。”
In the South China Sea, China has been trying to stake sovereignty to islands and waters that are also claimed by Southeast Asian nations. Vietnam, the Philippines and Malaysia are among the opponents to China’s claims. The United States has said it takes no side on sovereignty issues but will maintain freedom of navigation. More recently, it has asserted that the so-called nine dashes map that some Chinese officials say defines China’s ambitious claims in the South China Sea violates international law because the territorial boundaries are not based on land features.
在南海，中国一直声称对一些东南亚国家宣布主权的岛屿和水域也拥有主权。越南、菲律宾及马来西亚等国反对中国的主权要求。美国已经表示在主权问题上不站队，但要保持自由通航权。一些中国官员表示，所谓的九段线地图定义了中国在南海的宏伟主张。但最近美国称，这违反了了国际法，因为其领海边界并不以陆地架构为基础。
“As for China’s territorial and maritime disputes with some countries,” Mr. Wang said, “China would like to carry out equal-footing consultation and negotiation and properly handle by peaceful means on the basis of respecting historical facts and international law. There will not be any change to this position.”
“对于我们同一些国家存在的领土和海洋权益争议，”王毅说，“我们愿意在尊重历史事实和国际法的基础上，坚持通过平等协商谈判，以和平的方式妥善处理，这一点今后也不会改变。”
“We will never bully smaller countries, yet we will never accept unreasonable demands from smaller countries,” he added.
他还表示，“我们绝不会以大压小，但也绝不接受以小取闹。”
As for relations with the United States, which is expected to remain the supreme military power in the Pacific for years to come, Mr. Wang said, “We stand ready to work with the United States to uphold peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region. We believe the Asia-Pacific region should be the testing ground for our commitment to building a new model of major-power relations, and not a competitive arena.”
未来几年，美国仍将是太平洋地区最重要的军事力量，对于美中关系，王毅表示，“我们愿意同美国一起来共同维护亚太地区的和平与稳定。我们认为，亚太地区应该成为中美构建新型大国关系的实验田，而不是相互争斗的博弈场。”
The United States, which is Japan’s most powerful ally, has pushed back against some of China’s moves in the East China Sea. In November, China declared an air defense identification zone over the disputed islands in the sea and said any foreign flights, civilian or military, would have to notify China of their plans. The United States sent two B-52 bombers into the zone, ignoring China’s request for advance notification, and has continued to do so with other military flights.
美国是日本最强大的盟友，美国曾回击了中国在东海的一些举措。去年11月，中国宣布在东海争议岛屿上空设立防空识别区，并称任何外国飞机，无论是民用还是军用，必须告知中国方面其飞行计划。美国派了两架B-52轰炸机进入该区域，无视中国的提前告知要求，而且还在继续派遣其他军用飞机前往该区域。
But the United States has been lobbying China for its help on other regional stability issues, notably in Afghanistan and North Korea, both of which have borders with China.
但美国一直游说中国，争取中国在其他地区稳定问题上提供帮助，尤其是阿富汗和朝鲜问题，这两个国家都与中国接壤。
Mr. Wang acknowledged Afghanistan’s precarious state as American combat troops withdraw. He said, “Afghanistan’s peace and stability has a direct bearing on security in China’s western region” — a reference to the troubled area of Xinjiang, where violent conflict often erupts between ethnic Han and ethnic Uighurs, who are Turkic-speaking and mostly Muslim. He added, “We will also work with Afghanistan and other neighbors of China to resolutely fight all terrorist forces.”
王毅承认，随着美国作战部队的撤离，阿富汗出现了不稳定状态。他表示，“阿富汗的和平稳定与中国西部安全息息相关。”这里指的是出现混乱状况的新疆地区，那里的汉族人和维族人时常爆发暴力冲突。维族人大部分是穆斯林，其语言属于突厥语族。王毅还表示，“我们还愿意同包括阿富汗在内的周边邻国一道，坚决打击一切恐怖主义。”
Speaking about friction on the Korean Peninsula, Mr. Wang said: “The nuclear issue is the crux of the matter. Only with denuclearization can the Korean Peninsula enjoy genuine and lasting peace.” But he said there was a “woeful lack of mutual trust between the parties,” especially between North Korea and the United States.
在提到朝鲜半岛问题时，王毅说，“核问题是目前的症结所在，只有实现了无核化，半岛才有真正和持久的和平。”但他表示，“有关各方严重缺乏互信，”尤其是朝美双方。
“This is the stumbling block before us,” he said. He said China would keep working to restart the so-called six-party talks on North Korea’s nuclear program, involving the United States, Russia, Japan, China and both Koreas, since “the parties must follow the right way forward, which is dialogue.” North Korea withdrew from the talks in 2008, and some officials have privately said the talks are useless.
王毅说，“这是挡在我们面前的一道坎。”他表示，中国将继续努力重启有关朝鲜核项目的六方会谈，这六方指的是美国、俄罗斯、日本、中国和朝韩两国，因为“要走对话解决这条正道。”朝鲜于2008年退出六方会谈，一些官员私下表示，会谈毫无作用。