TOLEDO, Ohio — The realization was as surprising as it was momentous. Toledo, long known as Glass City, needed glass, and it could no longer be manufactured here quickly enough.
俄亥俄州托莱多——回过神来的那一刻既令人惊讶又颇为沉重。长期以来有“玻璃之城”(Glassy City)名号的托莱多居然会急需玻璃，而且无法立刻生产出来。
So Toledo turned to China to make the 360 panels, 1,300 pounds each, needed for an extension to the Toledo Museum of Art. Some here resented the move after China supplanted the United States as the world’s top glass producer. But in the process, city leaders began an improbable and remarkable relationship.
于是，托莱多求助于中国来制造托莱多艺术博物馆(Toledo Museum of Art)扩建所需的360块玻璃板，每块重1300磅（约合590公斤）。由于之前中国取代了美国成为全球第一的玻璃生产国，一些本地人对此颇为抵触。然而，在这一过程中，该市的领导人却开启了一段不可思议的双边关系。
Over the past seven years, the ties between Toledo and China have grown numerous. Chinese companies have paid more than $10 million in cash for two local hotels, a restaurant complex and a 69-acre waterfront property. Mayor Michael P. Bell has taken four trips to China in four years in search of investors. His business cards are double-sided, in English and Chinese.
过去七年间，托莱多与中国之间发展出了千丝万缕的联系。中国企业投入了逾1000万美元（约合6100万元人民币）的现金，在当地兴建了两座酒店、一栋餐饮大楼，以及一处69英亩（约合28公顷）的水景地产。市长迈克尔·P·贝尔(Michael P. Bell)四年中四次前往中国招商引资。他的名片两面印刷，英中双语。
Huaqiao University, one of the largest higher-education institutions in China, recently signed an agreement to open a branch in Toledo. There have also been preliminary talks between local officials and a Chinese company about an arrangement in which industrial tools would be produced in China, shipped for assembly in Toledo and labeled “made in the U.S.A.,” which would allow them to be sold at a premium.
中国的大型高校华侨大学最近签署协议，准备在托莱多设立一所分校。当地官员还与一家中国企业进行了初步谈判，想找到一种办法，让中国制造工业工具，然后运往托莱多组装，打上“美国制造”的名义，以便高价销售。
Toledo has also reached a deal for rarely seen Chinese antiques to be shown at the museum next year, and there are plans for the city to host a Chinese technology trade fair at its convention center. In all, more than 100 Toledo business people have traveled to China in recent years, and hundreds of Chinese investors have been welcomed in return, treated to special performances by members of the Toledo Symphony Orchestra.
托莱多还达成了一项协议，明年将在当地博物馆展出珍奇的中国古董，而且市里还计划在会展中心举办一场中国技术交易会。近些年来，共有超过百名托莱多商界人士出访中国，数百名中国投资者回访，这些投资者还受到了托莱多交响乐团(Toledo Symphony Orchestra)特别演出的款待。
“For little old Podunk, Ohio, it’s been pretty phenomenal what we’ve been able to do,” said Dean Monske, president and chief executive of the Regional Growth Partnership, a local economic development group.
“作为俄亥俄州的无名小城，我们能做到这些相当了不起，”当地的大湖区经济发展协会(Regional Growth Partnership)会长兼首席执行官迪恩·蒙斯克(Dean Monske)说。
Toledo is hardly the only American city to make common cause with China.
托莱多绝不是唯一与中国紧密合作的美国城镇。
Chinese companies made $12.2 billion in direct investments in the United States during the first nine months of 2013. That is up from $7.1 billion in all of 2012, which was itself a record at the time, according to the Rhodium Group, a New York-based consulting company. Chinese investors have been buying commercial and residential real estate in Detroit, inexpensively because of the city’s financial troubles, and have agreed to finance a $1.5 billion waterfront development in Oakland, Calif. Earlier this year, on a trade trip to China, Gov. Jerry Brown of California discussed Chinese investment in the state’s troubled $91 billion bullet train project.
今年前九个月，中国企业对美国的直接投资达122亿美元。相比之下，根据总部位于纽约的荣鼎咨询(Rhodium Group)公布的数据，去年全年的直接投资额为71亿美元，这个数字在当时也是历史最高水平。中国投资者在底特律收购商业与住宅地产，这些地产因底特律陷入财政困境而价格低廉；还达成了协议，资助加利福尼亚州奥克兰一个15亿美元的滨水开发项目。今年早些时候，加州州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)前往中国促进贸易，讨论的议题包括，让中国投资该州耗资910亿美元，但已陷入困境的高速铁路项目。
Oklahoma, South Dakota and Tennessee have also increased their push for Chinese investment.
俄克拉荷马州、南达科他州和田纳西州也加大了吸引中国投资的力度。
But Toledo, a largely blue-collar city of about 280,000, appears to be punching well above its weight at a time when mayors from Philadelphia to San Francisco are returning from China empty-handed.
然而，托莱多这个有28万左右人口，以蓝领为主的小城似乎做到了四两拨千斤，与此同时，费城和旧金山的市长却从中国空手而归。
“They looked on a map, figured out where we were sitting and saw the benefit,” said Mayor Bell, a gregarious former University of Toledo defensive lineman, referring to Toledo’s location near a number of large cities in the United States and Canada. “They could see that this town needed to be helped a little bit and that it could be on the upswing — that there was potential, that they could do something, that it could be incredible and it would not probably take a whole lot to do.”
“他们看了看地图，了解了我们的位置，也看到了我们的优势。”贝尔市长指的是托莱多毗邻美国和加拿大多座大城市的地理位置。这名托莱多大学(University of Toledo)橄榄球队当年的防守前锋喜欢与人打交道，他说，“他们能看出来，这里得到一点支持，就会有起色。我们有潜力，他们帮一把就能做到很棒，而且很可能不需要花太大力气。”
After their initial approaches — “Nobody had heard of Toledo,” Mr. Bell said — the city’s government and business leaders began pitching the feng shui of Toledo, where wind meets water. The city is a major transit hub, crossed by railways and highways, and has the busiest general cargo port in the Great Lakes region. Housing is affordable, and the abandoned factories, including those where windows, bottles and windshields were once made and shipped around the world, mean there is plenty of space.
经过初期的主动接触——“没人听说过托莱多，”贝尔说——市政府和商界领袖开始宣传托莱多的“风水”。该市是重要的交通枢纽，铁路和公路的交汇地，这里还有五大湖区最繁忙的杂货港。房屋价格合理，有一批废弃工厂，空间广阔。这些工厂中有一部分曾经生产过行销全球的玻璃窗、玻璃瓶和挡风玻璃。
The city’s informal “handshake culture” has also helped, Chinese and American business officials said, as deals that might unravel amid the bureaucratic machinations of a bigger city can be completed in Toledo in a matter of weeks.
中美企业高层称，托莱多不那么正式的“握手文化”也不无裨益。需要在大城市的官僚体系里慢慢走程序的协议，在这里可能几周时间就完成了。
Zhixin Guo, known as Simon, who recently moved here with his family and owns the Park Inn Toledo hotel and other properties around town, has been instrumental in introducing Toledo officials to influential counterparts in China. His long résumé includes stints working for Rong Yiren — the former vice president of China credited with opening the economy to Western investment in the 1990s — and as a translator for government and business officials including Henry A. Kissinger.
英文名为西蒙(Simon)的郭志新在城里拥有托莱多公园酒店(Park Inn Toledo)等多处地产，最近携家人移居此处，将托莱多的官员介绍给中国要人的关键人物正是他。郭志新长长的履历中包括为中国前国家副主席荣毅仁工作，后者是上世纪90年代中国经济向西方投资开放的功臣，以及为包括亨利·A·基辛格(Henry A. Kissinger)在内的政府和企业高层担任翻译。
“When you think about the U.S., you can’t just think about New York and L.A.,” Mr. Guo said recently as he sat in a conference room at the offices of his company, Five Lakes Global Group. “Don’t get me wrong, L.A. is fabulous. New York is great. But if you want to connect with American life, it’s Toledo.”
不久前，郭志新坐在他的公司，五大湖国际集团(Five Lakes Global Group)的一间会议室里接受了采访。他说，“想到美国的时候，不能只盯着纽约和洛杉矶。不要误会，洛杉矶很精彩，纽约很棒。可是，如果想融入美式生活，就来托莱多吧。”
Mayor Bell said he had tried to educate residents about the need for foreign investment and the importance of building personal relationships. Business leaders say they do not anticipate much change once Mayor Bell leaves office next month and is replaced by D. Michael Collins, a former City Council member. Mr. Collins said he had no intention of changing course, although there has been some criticism of some of the land purchases in the city.
贝尔市长表示，他一直努力向市民传达外国投资的必要性及缔结个人关系的重要性。商界领袖们称，他们认为贝尔下月让位于前市议员D·迈克尔·科林斯(D. Michael Collins)之后，相关政策不会有太大变化。科林斯表示，自己无意于改弦更张，尽管外界对市里的几宗土地收购有批评意见。
During one of his visits to China, Mr. Bell said, he and other officials were enjoying an evening gathering at which the drinks flowed freely. At one point, his hosts presented him with two more glasses of baijiu, a potent liquor, but this time they came with something extra. One glass contained snake blood; the other a snake’s gallbladder.
贝尔说，有一次他去到中国，官员们晚上一起畅饮。席间，主人拿给他两杯高度数的白酒，而且还加了些别的东西，一杯里有蛇血，另一杯里则是蛇胆。
With a potential investment on the line, the mayor recalled, he grabbed the glass with the gallbladder and nudged the snake blood over to Mr. Monske, the economic development official, who was a deputy mayor at the time. Each swallowed his drink in a gulp, leaving the hosts with mouths agape.
贝尔回忆说，由于潜在投资系于此，他抓起有蛇胆的那杯酒，把蛇血推给了负责经济发展的时任副市长蒙斯克。两人都一饮而尽，让主人们目瞪口呆。
“The guy sitting on the other side of the table said, ‘I’ve lived in China all my life and I’ve never done that one,’ ” Mr. Bell said. The mayor, who has a habit of sealing friendships with a bear hug, became an instant celebrity as news of his exploit preceded him from city to city on his tour of China.
“坐在桌对面的老兄说，‘我在中国一辈子都没这么干过，’”贝尔说。这名习惯用熊抱来缔结友谊的市长马上出了名，中国之行中每到一座城市，他的大胆之举都已传播开来。
“The people traveling with me told me at the end of the 10-day trip, ‘You know, giving hugs — that’s not protocol,’ ” Mr. Bell said. " ‘Then why did you let me do it?’ ”
“为期10天的访问结束时，陪同我的人说，‘其实，拥抱并不符合这里的规矩，’”贝尔说，“‘那你干嘛不拦着我？’”
Mr. Bell paused before adding that his aide had responded, “Because it was working.”
他停顿了一下，接着转述了助手的回应，“因为奏效了呀。”
“The interesting thing,” Mr. Bell said, “is they’d started hugging me back.”
“有意思的是，”贝尔说，“他们也开始拥抱我了。”