BEIJING — Ah, the smell of grilling meat, the feel-good squeal of Katy Perry and the thwack of fly swatter on prey. To Tian Xuan and his 20-something friends barbecuing outside their Cherokee-brand trailer in Beijing, it felt like an idyllic scene out of a Hollywood movie — except for the insects and the industrial-strength smog that had drifted in from nearby Hebei Province.
北京——不错，有烤肉的味道、凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)令人愉悦的响亮嗓音，还有苍蝇拍落下时的声音。田轩（音译）和他那些20来岁的朋友正在北京一辆切诺基牌拖车外烧烤，对他们而言，这感觉像是好莱坞电影中的一幕田园场景，只不过，这里虫子很多，还有非常浓厚的烟雾从邻近的河北省飘来。
“For Chinese, this is something like a dream,” said Mr. Tian, a 26-year-old graphic designer, as Hamburger, his English sheepdog, barked for attention. “Americans know how to live the good life.”
“对中国人而言，这就像是一场梦，”26岁的平面设计师田轩说，“美国人知道怎么享受生活。”他的英国牧羊犬汉堡包(Hamburger)在一旁吠叫，希望引起人们的注意。
Welcome to the Chinese capital’s first RV park, where visitors can plant their own campers for a few days or rent a stationary model – all made in the U.S.A.– for a night of American-inspired R&R.
欢迎来到中国首都的首个房车露营地。在这里，游客可以将自己的房车停放几天，或是租一辆固定的房车——所有房车都是美国制造的——度过一个美国式的休息放松之夜。
Having acquired many of the trappings of American consumer life, from iPhones to Buicks to closets full of Nikes and Coach bags, upwardly mobile Chinese are increasingly setting their sights on the “fang che,” or house vehicle, as they are known in Mandarin.
向更高层级流动的中国人已经拥有了美国消费者生活当中的许多元素，从iPhone到别克(Buick)，再到塞满耐克(Nike)和蔻驰(Coach)箱包的衣橱。如今，他们正日益将视线锁定在房屋汽车上。在普通话中，它们被称作“房车”。
Although they first began appearing on domestic movie sets more than a decade ago, RV’s have only become widely available in the last three years, with more than 10,000 now rumbling along Chinese highways, according to the Web site 21RV.com. Distributors of European and American-made campers say their products are selling out as soon as they hit the showroom floor. In August, at the third annual RV exhibition in Beijing, more than 500 vehicles were purchased during the four-day event, with an average sale price 300,000 renminbi, or $50,000. Industry analysts predict that sales will reach 800,000 within a decade.
房车首次在国内电影中露面是十多年前的事情，但却到过去三年才有了普遍的供应。据21世纪房车网的数据，目前中国公路上行驶着1万多辆房车。欧洲和美国制造的房车的经销商表示，他们的产品一到展厅就会卖光。8月，在北京的第三届年度房车展览会上，为期四天的活动共售出500多辆房车，平均售价30万人民币，大致相当于5万美元。行业分析人士预测，房车的销量将在十年内达到80万辆。
“The market is erupting like a volcano,” said Wang Xudong, the deputy secretary of the China RV and Camping Association, speaking by phone as he drove a two-bed Chinese-made Great Wall camper through a desolate stretch of Inner Mongolia, his wife, mother-in-law and two kids clambering around in the back.
“这个市场正在像火山一样爆发，”中国房车露营联盟副秘书长王旭东（音译）在接受电话采访时说。接受采访的时候，他正驾驶着一辆国产的长城牌双卧房车，行驶在内蒙古的一片荒凉地带，车里坐着他的妻子和岳母，还有两个在车厢后部爬来爬去的孩子。
Recreational vehicles might have middle-brow associations in the United States – the domain of retirees on perpetual holiday and methamphetamine cooks — but here in China they are seen as an upholstered magic carpet, toilet included, that provides an escape from urban congestion and tourist sites that are invariably mobbed on weekends.
在美国，房车可能会让人产生一些传统的联想，认为它是永远放假的退休人员和毒品瘾君子的专利，但在中国，它被视为一张装潢精美且附带卫生间的魔毯，能让人们远离都市的拥堵，远离一到周末就人满为患的旅游景点。
“They symbolize freedom and luxury,” said Fang Liping, an English teacher at Beijing Normal University, who was sharing a rented Wolf Pack-brand RV with three generations of family earlier this month during Golden Week, the state-mandated holiday when millions of Chinese take to the road, causing colossal traffic jams and the occasional riot.
北京师范大学英语教师方立平（音）说，“它们象征着自由和奢侈。”在本月早些时候的黄金周假期，他们一家三代共享一辆租来的Wolf Pack牌房车。黄金周是国家法定假日，数百万中国人会在这段时间上路旅行，引发巨大的交通拥堵和骚乱。
For many guests at the CTS-HK RV Park in Miyun, a rural precinct north of Beijing, this was a chance to sample an exotic lifestyle many associate with financial success and Western-style leisure. “We Chinese are under so much pressure, not just us but even children,” said Xia Zaiying, 35, a full-time housewife and the mother of a 3-year-old boy. As she spoke, her son played with a pair of remote-controlled tanks while her husband, the owner of a software company, tended the corn and steamed buns, known as mantou, that were grilling on a Weber barbecue that had spent the previous five years boxed up in their closet. “I envy American life, the freedom to go and do what you want,” she said.
对在港中旅密云房车小镇的许多客人来说，这是一个尝试异域生活情调的机会，许多人都把这种情调和经济上的成功及西式休闲体验联系在了一起。密云是北京北部的一片乡村辖区。35岁的夏再颖（音）是一名全职主妇，有一个三岁的儿子。她说，“我们中国人的压力太大了，不仅是我们，甚至孩子也一样。”她说话时，儿子正在玩一对遥控坦克，她身为软件公司老板的丈夫则在照看韦伯(Weber)烧烤炉，炉子上烤着玉米和馒头。过去五年里，这个炉子一直被束之高阁。她说，“我羡慕美国人的生活，羡慕他们想走就去，想干嘛就干嘛的自由。”
Still, few of those who paid 2,000 renminbi, or $330, to rent an RV for the night were ready to take the plunge into ownership. Many said they were less daunted by the steep sticker prices than the obstacles to driving and parking. There are only a handful of RV parks in China, and the local police, unaccustomed to seeing the large, lumbering vehicles, sometimes fine drivers. A few owners complained that confused toll booth operators have been known to incorrectly charge drivers the higher rate for cargo trucks. “The gaps in the law, more than the prices, are the biggest impediment for many people,” said Mr. Wang of the RV association.
尽管如此，在这些花费了2000元人民币（约合330美元）租赁房车过夜的人当中，没有几个准备冒险尝试拥有一辆房车。许多人说，吓退他们的更多是驾车和停车的障碍，而不是高昂的车价。中国的房车营地很少，中国警方还不习惯看到这种动作迟缓的大型交通工具，有时候会罚款。几名房车车主抱怨说，据他们所知，糊涂的高速公路收费站收费员会向司机收取不当的过路费，数额比货运卡车还高。房车露营联盟的王旭东说，“对许多人来说，最大的拦路虎是法律缺口，并不是价格。”
Of course the camping life, even the pampered version, is not for everyone, especially young urbanites who have had little interaction with the great outdoors. As dusk fell, many of the overnighters found the swarms of flies and mosquitoes a bit much. Unnerved by the relative silence, most eventually retreated into their campers to huddle around the warm glow of flat-screen TVs playing Chinese soap operas. “It’s cool at first, but actually after a while it feels a bit boring,” said Mr. Tian, the designer. “Once is enough.”
当然，野营生活，即便是最养尊处优的那种，也并非适合所有人，对于和大自然几乎没有互动的城市年轻人来说，情况尤其如此。随着夜幕降临，许多夜猫子都觉得，群集的苍蝇和蚊子有点太多。相对的寂静让人不安，大多数人最终躲进了帐篷，挤在平板电视的温暖荧光周围观看国产肥皂剧。田轩说，“一开始，我感觉相当酷，可是实际上，没过一会儿我就感到有点烦了。这样的经历，有一次就够了。”