The growth figures for China’s provinces add up to more than the national total with several yet to report, a discrepancy that experts say can be chalked up to politics and poor bookkeeping.
中国各省的增长数据总和比全国总数还高，而且还有几个省份尚未通报相关数据。专家表示，这种差异的起因很可能是政治因素和记账问题。
China’s economy grew at 7.7 percent last year, and analysts expect it to slow further as the government pushes a transition to greater reliance on domestic consumption over exports and investment.
去年，中国的经济增长率为7.7%；据分析人士估计，随着中国政府尝试将重心转移到依赖国内消费而非出口和投资，经济的增长速度将会进一步放缓。
Newly released figures on factory expectations also indicated a likelihood of economic cooling this year. The preliminary Purchasing Managers’ Index from HSBC Holdings and Markit Economics fell to 49.6 for January, below the 50.5 figure for December. Totals below 50 indicate contracting manufacturing activity.
最近发布的关于工厂预期的数据也表明，今年经济可能会降温。汇丰控股(HSBC Holdings)和Markit Economics发布的1月初步采购经理指数(purchasing managers' index, PMI)降到了49.6，低于去年12月的50.5。低于50的总数意味着制造活动正在收缩。
China’s 2013 figure for gross domestic product, while well below the double digit growth rates of the mid-2000s, was slightly above the government’s 2013 target of 7.5 percent. Still, 28 Chinese regions and provinces reported growth figures for 2013 that, when combined, are higher than the national total. And that’s with three provinces yet to publish their figures for last year, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
中国2013年的国内生产总值增长数据比2005年前后的两位数增长率低很多，但仍比政府为2013年设定的7.5%增长目标略高。然而，如果把中国28个地区和省份报告的2013年数据加起来，竟然比全国的总数还要高。此外，据中国国家媒体新华社报道，还有三个省份尚未公布去年的数据。
The discrepancy between the two numbers has been a recurring phenomenon for more than a decade. One explanation has been political: Local leaders want to show they’ve successfully promoted economic growth, and can direct provincial statistics bureaus to come up with numbers that show that.
在长达10多年的时间里，这两个数据之间的差异反复出现。其中一个原因是政治上的：地方领导人希望展示自己已经成功地促进了经济增长，而且可以命令省级统计局拿出能体现这一点的数据。
Other factors are at play, though. Economic production isn’t neatly contained within provincial borders, and commerce that traverses borders is often added to multiple ledgers. And while the national statistics office uses a single set of prices for goods to determine growth figures, provinces use their own, which officials say is another source for the discrepancies.
不过，其他一些因素也在起作用。经济生产不可能完全局限在各省内部，横跨各省边界的商业贸易还往往会被记入多个账目。国家统计局在确定增长率时使用的是一套单独的商品价格，各省用的却是自己的价格，官员称，这也是出现差异的一个原因。
The 3.6 percent gap between the national figure and the sum of the individual provincial figures amounts to 2.06 trillion renminbi, or $340 billion. That is the equivalent of the G.D.P. of a prosperous Chinese province like Fujian.
全国数据和各省份数据总和之间存在3.6%的差异，差异总额共计2.06万亿人民币，相当于像福建这样的中国富裕省份的GDP总额。
The 2013 gap, while still large in absolute terms, is likely to end up smaller than the one for the previous year. In 2012 the provincial total was nearly 5.8 trillion renminbi larger, which Chinese commentators noted was nearly equivalent to the G.D.P. of the country’s wealthiest province, Guangdong.
从绝对数字来看，2013年的差异依然很大，尽管如此，最终的差异多半会比去年的差异小。2012年，省级行政区的GDP总和比全国GDP高将近5.8万亿人民币。中国评论人士指出，这个数字几乎相当于中国最富裕的省份广东的GDP。
Prime Minister Li Keqiang has said that he doesn’t trust such “man-made” figures when examining the Chinese economy. In 2007, while he was Communist Party chief of Liaoning Province in northeast China, Mr. Li said that he considered electricity consumption, rail freight and loan distribution to be measures of economic growth that are more accurate than G.D.P.
李克强总理曾表示，他在研究中国经济时不相信这种“人造”数字。2007年，时任中国东北省份辽宁省委书记的李克强说，在他看来，作为经济增长的衡量标准，用电量、铁路货运和贷款分布都比GDP准确。
“This is an old problem which recurs every time the data is released,” Zhang Liqun, an economist at the State Council’s Development Research Center, told Xinhua. “The gap is mainly caused by duplicating calculation.”
“这是个老问题，每次公布数据时都会出现，”国务院发展研究中心的经济学家张立群告诉新华社，“这种差异主要是由重复计算造成的。”
Still, there is an official recognition that the gap is also driven by regional leaders trying to boost their own records.
但官方承认，这种差异也是各地区领导人造成的，因为他们一心想提升自己的政绩。
“Due to local officials’ obsession with governing performance, the local figures will be more or less overblown,” Cong Liang, deputy head of the department of national economy at the National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planning body, said at a briefing on Wednesday, Xinhua reported.
新华社报道称，中国级别最高的经济规划机构国家发改委国民经济综合司副司长丛亮在周三的一次新闻发布会上说，“有一些地方为了追求政绩，在GDP核算当中多多少少有一些水分。”
China has long recognized the problem of overstated provincial growth statistics. On  Jan. 7, Ma Jiantang, the head of the National Statistics Bureau, said that China hoped to bring provincial G.D.P. figures in line with the country’s total. “Every region should through thought and action earnestly establish an economic audit system that is unified with the nation,” he said, according to a report published on an official government website.
长期以来，中国一直承认地方增长数据有所夸大这个问题。1月7日，国家统计局局长马建堂表示，中国希望让省级行政区GDP数据与全国总和保持一致。据发表在一个政府官网上的一则报道称，马建堂要求，“各地要切实把思想和行动统一到加快建立国家统一的经济核算制度要求上。”
Such proposals have been made before. In 2009, after the combined total G.D.P for China’s provinces combined was nearly 10 percent higher than the national total for the first half of the year, statistical officials discussed unifying the accounting. Since then the gap has shrunk, but it remains.
以前也有过类似建议。2009年，中国上半年各省GDP相加的总和比全国数字高了近10%，统计官员随即就对核算统一的问题进行了讨论。从那时起，这种差异有所缩小，但依然存在。