HONG KONG — An online auction house for used cars in China has attracted $170 million from big name investors including the search engine company Baidu, the private equity group K.K.R. and Coatue Management, a New York investment firm.
香港——一家中国二手车网络拍卖公司获得了一些知名投资商的1.7亿美元（约合10.5亿元人民币）投资，其中包括搜索引擎百度、私募股权公司科尔伯格-克拉维斯-罗伯茨公司（Kohlberg Kravis Roberts，简称KKR）和纽约投资公司蔻图管理公司(Coatue Management)。
Uxin, which operates used-car auction websites in China that focus on dealers and businesses, said Wednesday that it would use the funds to expand a new website and mobile app aiming at individual consumers. The company also provides inspections, quality guarantees and financing for the vehicles sold on its platforms.
优信在中国运营二手车拍卖网站，主要面向经销商和企业。公司在周三表示将会利用这笔资金开设新网站，研发针对个人消费者的移动应用程序。该公司还为通过该平台出售的汽车提供检查、质量保障和融资服务。
“Uxin hopes to use the strengths of its Internet technologies and experience in the used-car market to improve the efficiency of transactions, and to help dealers identify potential buyers with greater accuracy,” Chris Dai, the chief executive of the Chinese company, said in a statement.
优信首席执行官戴琨发表声明称，“优信希望利用互联网技术的优势以及在二手车市场的丰富经验提高交易效率，帮助经销商更准确地识别潜在买家。”
China is the world’s biggest market for new car sales, but the market for used cars is still comparatively small. Many Chinese are first-time car buyers and see owning a new vehicle as a status symbol. The country’s used-car market has traditionally been highly fragmented and lacking information on the service and repair history of the vehicles being sold. But things appear to be changing rapidly.
中国是世界最大的新车销售市场，但二手车市场仍然相对较小。很多中国人都是首次购车，他们认为拥有新车是一种社会地位的象征。中国的二手车市场向来高度分散，缺乏有关在售车辆服务及维修记录的信息。但情况似乎正在迅速改变。
Transactions in China’s used-car market rose 26 percent in 2014 from a year earlier, to 368 billion renminbi, or about $60 billion. The number of used cars changing hands rose 16 percent to about six million vehicles in the same period, according to figures from the China Automobile Dealers Association cited by Uxin.
2014年，中国二手车市场的交易额同比增加了26％，增至3680亿元人民币。根据优信引用的中国汽车流通协会的数据，同一时期，二手车交易数量增加了16％，增至约600万辆。
Online sales and auctions of used cars accounted for a small segment of the market, but they have the advantage of connecting buyers and sellers in different cities or provinces. Uxin said it handled more than 150,000 online and offline car auction transactions a year.
网络销售和二手车拍卖只占很小一部分市场份额，但它们有联系不同城市或省份的买家和卖家的作用。优信表示，一年之中，它总共处理了超过15万笔线上和线下汽车拍卖交易。
The terms of the shareholdings were not disclosed, but for Baidu, China’s biggest online search engine company, investing in Uxin gives it a new market where it can leverage its vast stores of data and large user base. For K.K.R., the deal is the latest by its China Growth Fund, which last summer invested about $400 million in a chicken breeder in Fujian Province in southeastern China.
公司尚未公布持股情况，但是对于中国最大的网络搜索引擎公司百度，投资优信可以给它提供一个新的市场，它可以在这个市场上利用自己的大量数据和庞大的用户群。对于KKR而言，这是中国成长基金(China Growth Fund)最近的一笔交易。去年夏季，该基金为中国东南部省份福建省的一家养鸡场投资了大约4亿美元。