In a country where some primary schools are known as “tobacco elementaries” for accepting money from tobacco companies and displaying slogans such as “Tobacco Makes You Accomplished and Smart,” the Chinese government has released a draft of anti-tobacco regulations that for the first time would ban smoking in all indoor public places.
在中国，一些小学因为接受烟草公司的资助，并挂有“烟草助你成才”等标语而被称为“烟草小学”。现在，中国政府发布了禁烟条例草案，首次规定所有室内公共场所一律禁止吸烟。
Also, for the first time, cigarette packages would have to prominently feature information about the dangers of smoking.
政府首次要求，必须在香烟包装上的显眼位置印制有关吸烟的危害的信息。
More than 300 million Chinese smoke, and hundreds of millions of others are exposed to secondhand smoke. A powerful domestic tobacco industry, much of it state owned, brings in trillions of renminbi in sales and tax revenue annually for the government. Cigarette prices have remained low, despite calls by the World Health Organization for the government to raise taxes on tobacco products to discourage smoking.
中国的烟民达到了3亿多，还有数亿人被迫吸二手烟。其烟草业势力强大，其中大部分是国企，该行业每年为政府带来数万亿元的销售收入及税收。尽管世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)呼吁各国政府增加烟草税，香烟的价格仍然比较低。
Reflecting smoking’s popularity in China — in public places such as hotels, restaurants, train stations, schools and hospitals — ashtrays are often found next to no-smoking signs. Finding a smoke-free restaurant, even in major cities such as Beijing or Chengdu, is difficult.
人们经常能在“禁止吸烟”告示牌旁看到烟灰缸，这反映出在酒店、餐厅、火车站、学校及医院等公共场合吸烟的行为在中国非常普遍。民众很难找到无烟餐厅，甚至是在北京或成都等大城市。
Opponents of smoking have long called for stricter controls. In 2005, China ratified the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, but it failed to carry out many of the measures by a 2011 deadline. A World Health Organization report last year put China behind many developing countries in terms of tobacco control, including Egypt, Thailand and Vietnam.
反吸烟人士长期以来一直要求政府实施更加严格的管控举措。2005年，中国批准了《世界卫生组织烟草控制框架公约》(World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control)，但中国没有在2011年，也就是最后期限前，实施很多举措。在世界卫生组织去年发布的报告中，中国在烟草管控方面的排名落后于埃及、泰国、越南等很多发展中国家。
The proposed regulations, presented this week for public consultation, suggest what tighter controls might look like.
中国政府本周公布了条例草案，征求公众意见，该草案显示了中国可能会采取哪些更加严格的管控举措。
In addition to the ban on smoking indoors in public places, such as offices and schools, smoking would be banned in outdoor areas where people gather, such as bus stops and sports venues. The proposed regulations would require outdoor spaces such as parks to provide separate smoking areas. Managers of these sites would have the right to call the police to deal with people who do not follow the rules and “cause trouble,” according to the draft regulations.
除了禁止在办公室、学校等室内公共场所吸烟之外，公交站、体育场等人群聚集的室外区域也全面禁止吸烟。该草案要求公园等室外区域设立吸烟点。该草案规定，相关场所的管理者遇到不遵循规定并“扰乱公共秩序”的人时，有权向公安机关报案。
Restrictions on tobacco advertising would be more strictly enforced, meaning schools that now feature pro-tobacco slogans would have to remove them. Half the surface area of cigarette packages would be required to provide information on the dangers of smoking.
中国将更加严格地执行烟草广告禁令，这意味着那些挂有赞成吸烟的标语的学校将需要移除标语。香烟包装上的警示面积要达到包装面积的二分之一。
The proposed regulations include strict controls on selling tobacco to minors. Those who cannot show identification proving their age would not be allowed to buy tobacco.
该草案还严格禁止向未成年人销售烟草制品。对不能出示身份证件提供年龄信息的，不得向其销售烟草制品。
The proposals, announced on the website of the Legislative Affairs Office of the State Council, have already attracted thousands of comments on Chinese websites, many positive. The antismoking lobby has voiced its support as well. And according to a report in The Beijing News, 90 percent of Beijing residents favor a total ban on smoking in indoor public spaces.
国务院法制办公室在其网站上公布了该草案，中国的网站上已经出现了数千条相关评论，其中很多都是正面评价。反对吸烟的游说团体也对此表示支持。根据《新京报》的一篇报道，90%的北京居民支持室内公共场所全面禁烟。