HONG KONG — BoConcept, a Danish furniture company that has more than 260 stores around the world, opened an outlet in Hong Kong last week amid flashing cameras, the deafening noise of drums and cymbals and a pair of lion dancers performing a traditional ceremony aimed at bringing good fortune to the shop.
香港——在全球拥有260多家专卖店的丹麦家居品牌BoConcept上周在香港新开了一家店，开业仪式上摄像机的闪光灯不断，锣鼓声震耳欲聋，还表演了传统的狮子舞，意在给这家店带来好运。
The store is the first in Hong Kong for BoConcept, but the company already operates 18 in mainland China and is planning another six to eight across the country as it bets that rising affluence will continue to lift demand for its sleek sofas and coffee tables.
这是BoConcept在香港的首家专卖店，但该公司在中国大陆已经开有18家店，还计划在全国各地再开6到8家店，该公司寄希望于中国富裕程度的不断提高，认为那将推动对其高档时髦沙发和咖啡桌的需求。
“We see a lot of opportunities in China,” said Kim Moelholm, regional director for Asia-Pacific at BoConcept.
BoConcept亚太区经理金姆·穆尔霍尔姆(Kim Moelholm)说，“我们在中国看到很多机遇。”
China is in the midst of a major overhaul aimed at weaning its economy off its decades-long reliance on often inefficient state-driven investment and a manufacturing sector that has been highly geared to exporting to the rest of the world.
中国正在进行一场重大改革，目的是让其经济摆脱过去几十年来依赖的增长点：国家驱动的低效投资，以及以向世界其他国家出口为主要目的的制造业。
Raising domestic consumption of things like cars, washing machines and furniture is a key element of this rebalancing effort. So whether Mr. Moelholm is right in his assessment is of great importance for the Chinese economy, as well as for the many other retailers, manufacturers and service providers — including Ford Motor, the clothing company Burberry and the hotel chain Marriott — that have been expanding in China.
国内消费需求的增长，比如对像汽车、洗衣机和家具等，是平衡经济的努力的一个关键因素。因此，穆尔霍尔姆的判断正确与否，对中国经济来说十分重要，对许多其他零售商、制造商以及服务供应商来说也很重要，这些已在中国扩大规模的公司包括福特汽车公司(Ford Motor)、服装公司博柏利(Burberry)，以及万豪(Marriott)连锁酒店等。
“Consumption is a key element of China’s rebalancing act,” said Stephen Green, head of Standard Chartered’s Greater China research in Hong Kong.
渣打银行(Standard Chartered)驻香港大中华区研究总管王志浩(Stephen Green)说，“发展消费是中国重新平衡经济的一个重要元素。”
Data released Monday underlined just how rapidly the overall economy has been cooling as Beijing has sought, over the past two years, to rein in often poorly allocated lending and close down inefficient or polluting industries.
周一发布的数据突显了整体经济降温的速度之快，由于过去两年中北京在努力控制往往是低效划拨的贷款，还关停了一批效率低或污染严重的企业。
After years of supercharged growth and annual expansion rates of 10 percent or more, the economy expanded at 7.7 percent last year, the national statistics bureau said Monday. That was above the government’s target of 7.5 percent and the same as in 2012, but many analysts expect the pace to cool further this year as Beijing’s “tough love” approach to overhauling the economy continues to crimp lending and industrial activity.
经过了多年的超高速增长以及10%或更高的年增长率之后，去年中国经济增长率为7.7%，据国家统计局周一发布的信息。虽然这仍高于政府7.5%的目标，也与2012年的增长率相同，但很多分析人士预计今年的经济会进一步降温，由于北京调整经济的“严爱”方式正在继续限制借贷和工业活动。
Similarly, factory output and investment in fixed assets, which have been losing steam over much of the past year, continued to do so in December, the data showed.
数据显示，工厂产出以及固定资产投资在12月同样继续表现不佳，这两方面在去年大部分时间里都缺乏动力。
But retail sales, which give a sense of how spending among China’s 1.3 billion inhabitants is holding up, have remained relatively firm, and notched a gain of 13.6 percent in December. The data, said Yao Wei, China economist in the Hong Kong office of Société Générale, was a bright spot in the statistics released Monday.
但是，零售业的销售则相对表现强劲，去年12月的增长率为13.6%，零售业是中国13亿人消费水平的一个衡量。法国兴业银行(Société Générale)驻香港的中国经济学家姚炜说，零售业数据是周一发布的数据中的一个亮点。
“Consumption is not exactly booming, but it is likely to remain okay this year,” Mr. Green said.
王志浩说，“消费还没有达到蓬勃发展的水平，但可能在今年保持不错的表现。”
Moreover, he said, official figures tend to underestimate the role that consumption plays in the overall economy, as unrecorded “gray income” supplements the actual wealth of many households.
他说，此外，官方数据往往低估消费在整体经济中的份额，因为未被统计进来的“灰色收入”让许多家庭的实际财富高于数据所显示的。
Wages have risen as millions of Chinese have moved from the countryside into the cities. And because China is rapidly aging, this means it is gradually getting harder for employers to find and retain workers.
随着数以百万计的中国人从农村进入城市，工资一直在增长。再加上中国人口的快速老龄化，这都意味着雇主越来越难找到并留住工人。
Official figures released by the statistics office on Monday put the increase in the disposable income of urban residents at 9.7 percent last year, or 7 percent when factoring in inflation. Rural residents’ net income rose 9.3 percent when adjusted for inflation.
统计局周一发布的官方数据显示，去年城市居民的可支配收入增长了9.7%，将通货膨胀考虑在内后的增长率为7%。农村居民的净收入在去除通货膨胀因素之后增长了9.3%。
That has made life harder for many exporters, who are finding it difficult to deliver goods inexpensively.
这让很多出口商的处境变得更加困难，他们发现提供廉价货物变得更难了。
But it has also increased the spending power of people like Li Yang, 32, a financial officer of a ship-repairing company.
但是，这也提高了一些人的消费能力，比如32岁的轮船维修公司的财务管理员李洋（音译）。
Mr. Li bought his first car, a BYD Qin worth 210,000 renminbi, or $34,700, last month.
李洋上月花了21万元人民币，买下了自己的第一辆比亚迪秦汽车。
“I feel confident about China’s economic outlook and optimistic about my career,” he said. “I don’t agree with the media’s exaggeration of short-term fluctuations. China is far from what they like to suggest being on the verge of collapse. There is still much room for growth.”
他说，“我对中国的经济前景充满信心，对我自己的事业也很乐观。我不认同媒体夸大短期波动的做法。中国远不是他们喜欢说的那样，处在崩溃的边缘。这里还有很多增长空间。”
Mr. Moelholm, the BoConcept executive, likewise has witnessed big changes in the way many Chinese spend.
BoConcept的执行官穆尔霍尔姆也同样看到许多中国人消费方式的巨大改变。
“When we first started in Shanghai, 15 years ago, modern, imported furniture was still very uncommon,” he said. “Now, we are still niche and premium, but it is not uncommon now for people to come into one of our stores and place orders for 100,000, 200,000 or 300,000 renminbi.”
他说，“我们15年前在上海首次开店的时候，进口的现代家具还很少见。现在，我们仍面对一个小众市场，价格仍属高端，但人们到我们的店里下10万、20万或30万元订单的现象已不太罕见。”
The key question now is whether China’s consumption resilience will continue.
如今的关键问题是，中国消费带来的经济反弹能力是否将持续下去。
For China to generate more domestic consumption, said Richard Ho, who recently founded Athenee, a boutique advisory firm in Shanghai, it needs to foster a more vibrant private sector.
最近在上海成立了一家精品咨询公司Athenee的理查德·胡(Richard Ho)说，中国要想刺激更多的国内消费，就需要培育更活跃的私营经济。
“If you can unleash the power of private enterprise and create a level playing field for private and state-owned businesses,” he said, employment and wage growth can continue — supporting domestic consumption.
他说，“如果能释放出私有企业的能量，创造一个私有企业和国有企业平等竞争的环境，”就业和工资就能持续增长，从而为国内消费提供支持。
“It’s a circle — they need to get the private sector right in order to get consumption going,” Mr. Ho said. “But it won’t happen overnight. For the next three to five years at least, the authorities will have no choice but to pump more ‘cold medicine’ into the economy, in the form of investments into fixed assets like infrastructure and plants.”
胡先生说，“这是一个循环，他们需要让私营部门正常发展，这样才能驱动消费。但这不会一下子就改变。至少在未来3到5年，政府除了给经济下更多的‘感冒药’外别无选择，也就是还得继续对基础设施和工厂等固定资产进行投资。”
The authorities have begun to clamp down on official bank lending and “shadow” banking activities outside the regulated sector over the past year in a bid to reduce the risk of potential defaults further down the line. But a surge in these activities and in debt accrued by local governments since the global financial crisis means it will be hard to avoid at least some defaults, many analysts say.
政府在过去一年中已经开始控制正规银行的贷款、以及在监管部门之外的“影子”银行活动，以减少未来可能出现的无力偿还贷款的风险。但是，许多分析人士指出，由于影子银行活动的激增，以及全球金融危机以来地方政府累积的大量债务，很难避免至少有些债款无法偿还的情况。
“Our concern is that problems in the shadow banking sector could spill over into the formal banking system,” said Tom Byrne, a senior vice president and manager for Moody’s Sovereign Risk Group.
穆迪主权风险集团(Moody’s Sovereign Risk Group)高级副总裁兼经理汤姆·伯恩(Tom Byrne)说，“我们担心的是，影子银行的问题，可能会影响到正规的银行系统。”
Chinese state-owned banks are well capitalized, he said, and as long as the economy manages growth of about 7 percent without generating still more rapid credit growth, he said, the banking system is likely to be able to absorb any losses. If economic growth slows to 6 percent, he said, “maybe. At 5 percent, probably not.”
他说，中国国有银行的资本相当充足，只要经济能在不出现进一步信贷增长的情况下，保持7%左右的增长率，银行系统在吸收损失上大概没有问题。他说，如果经济增长下降到6%，“或许也没问题。但如果下降到5%的话，可能就会出问题了。”
At the same time, however, the restrictions on lending also risk hurting economic activity, so Beijing will have to be careful not to roll back state investment and lending too rapidly, analysts caution.
但是与此同时，限制贷款也可能带来危害经济活动的风险，因此北京必须谨慎，不要太快地减少国家投资和贷款，分析人士警告说。
All of this makes it all the more crucial that China’s structural overhauls — which were outlined in fairly broad terms at a party meeting in November — bear fruit quickly.
这一切都让中国的整体结构调整能尽快出成果变得至关重要，去年11月的一次共产党会议上给出了结构调整的大致框架。
“This is a make-or-break year for China,” said Mr. Green, the Standard Chartered economist.
渣打银行经济学家王志浩说，“对中国来说，今年是成败与否的一年。”
Mr. Green said he was a “cautious bull” on China.
王志浩说，他对中国持“谨慎乐观”态度。
“But if we’re here next year and can’t point to a few substantive reforms, then we can start to worry a bit more,” he said. “We need to see the rubber hitting the tarmac this year.”
他说，“但是，如果明年这个时候我们不能指出做了哪些重大改革的话，那我们就要开始有点担心了。我们需要看今年的行动。”