BEIJING — It is no secret that fans of Chinese food often find it addictive. They speak longingly of the numbing spice of Sichuan peppercorn or the sour herbs found in Yunnan cooking.
北京——这不是什么秘密，嗜好中餐的人往往会觉得它令人上瘾。谈到四川花椒的麻味，或者云南的酸菜时，他们的向往之情常常溢于言表。
At least 36 restaurants in China tried to take that addictive quality one step further, and now have found themselves on the wrong side of the law. They were investigated in the past week by the authorities for adding poppy capsules and other illegal ingredients to food, according to a report on Friday by Xinhua, the state-run news agency.
中国至少有36家餐馆在使人上瘾这条路上更进一步，跨越了法律的界限。官方媒体新华社上周五报道称，监管机构上周进行的调查发现，这些餐馆在食品中添加了罂粟壳等违规成分。
The poppy capsule is made from the dried pericarp of the ripe fruit of an opium poppy plant, and it has more than 20 types of alkaloids, including those found in morphine and cocaine, the report said. It is used in the Chinese medicine industry, but it is illegal in cooking.
罂粟壳是罂粟植物果实成熟后经过干燥处理的果皮，它含有20多种生物碱，其中包括吗啡和可卡因中的一些成分，该报道称。罂粟壳应用于中医行业，但在烹调中使用是非法的。
Transporting, buying, selling, storing or using poppy capsules in food can result in up to 15 days in detention or a fine of up to 3,000 renminbi, or $455.
运输、买卖、储存或在食品中使用罂粟壳，可能会被处以最高15天的拘留，或最高3000元人民币的罚款。
The latest case came to light on Wednesday, when officials investigated a noodle shop in the city of Yulin in Shaanxi Province for adding poppy capsules to mutton noodles, Xinhua reported, citing a local newspaper.
最新的这起案件是在上周三曝光的，当时官员们检查了陕西省榆林市的一家面馆，发现那里的羊肉拉面中添加了罂粟壳，新华社报道援引当地报纸的内容称。
Officials have found that poppy capsules are most often used by small restaurants serving heavily flavored food like hot pot, grilled fish and fried chicken. The Xinhua report quoted a chef at a hot pot restaurant in Sichuan Province who said cooks used to grind the poppy capsules into powder and add it to soup base, but that was easy for investigators to detect. So the cooks began adding the powder to MSG, or monosodium glutamate, and put it in sauce used by customers.
官员们发现，提供重口味食物的小餐馆最常使用罂粟壳，比如火锅店、烤鱼店和炸鸡店。新华社的报道援引四川省一家火锅店厨师的话说，他们之前把罂粟壳研磨成粉末，添加到汤底里，但很容易被调查员发现。于是厨师开始把罂粟粉添加到味精里，再放入到食客的酱料中。
Poppy capsules are quietly sold in street markets that have cooking ingredients or those that specialize in Chinese medicine products.
在销售烹饪原料或者中药的路边市场上，罂粟壳在悄悄售卖。
In recent years, Chinese officials have tried to end this practice several times and have announced nationwide crackdowns. In 2014, three central government agencies, including the Ministry of Public Security, issued a notice saying they would carry out field inspections across the country and adopt a “zero tolerance” policy toward violations.
近年来，中国官员多次试图禁绝这种现象，也宣布过开展全国性的整治活动。2014年，包括公安部在内的三家中央政府机构发布公告，称将在全国各地进行实地检查，对违规行为采取“零容忍”政策。
The Chinese food industry is regularly shaken by scandals. For example, people here often talk of restaurants using “gutter oil,” or illegally recycled oil that is dirty and can contain carcinogens.
中国食品行业每隔一段事件就会曝出丑闻。例如，这里的人们经常谈到餐馆使用“地沟油”做菜，这是一种非法回收的油，不仅肮脏，而且还可能含有致癌物。
In 2014, the Taiwanese police raided a factory in southern Taiwan that was accused of producing hundreds of tons of oil recycled from restaurant waste and slaughterhouse byproducts. Regulators investigated whether the oil had been shipped to mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau, where it may have been used in a wide range of cooking.
2014年，台湾南部一家工厂被指通过回收餐厨垃圾和屠宰场下水，生产了几百吨油，台湾警方对其进行了突击检查。对于这些油是否已经运往中国大陆、香港和澳门，并被人们广泛用于食物烹调，监管机构开展了调查。
China has a long and complicated history with the opium poppy. In the 18th and 19th centuries, Qing emperors issued orders to try to ban the import of opium. Britain, the main exporter to China, fought two wars with the Qing in the 19th century to keep the trade flowing.
罂粟在中国有着悠久而复杂的历史。在18、19世纪，清朝皇帝下令禁止鸦片进口。而为了保持鸦片贸易的流通，主要对华出口国英国曾在19世纪与清政府两度开战。