Like a growing number of other investors, Wang Jiacang, a 48-year-old driver in Beijing, is caught in the falling Chinese stock market with no easy exit.
就像人数越来越多的其他投资者一样，48岁的北京司机王佳沧（音）被不断下跌的中国股市套牢，无法轻易退出。
Chinese rules halt trading in a company’s shares when they drop 10 percent, and some of the more speculative listings declined by the limit on Friday and again on Monday, while giving investors like Mr. Wang few chances to sell. “I’m quite worried — a fifth of my investment has been trapped,” he said. “Who will buy stocks in a bear market?”
中国的规定是，一支股票的价格下跌达10%的时候就会暂停它的交易。一些投机色彩较浓的股票在周五跌停，并在周一再次跌停，使得像王佳沧这样的投资者没有什么机会卖掉手中的股票。“我很担心啊，五分之一的投资被套牢了，”他说。“谁会在熊市买进呢？”
An interest-rate cut by China’s central bank on Saturday failed to stem the rout in Chinese share prices on Monday, and the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets closed with steep losses after their wildest swings in percentage terms in more than two decades.
央行周六公布的下调利率的举措没能阻止中国股市在周一暴跌。在出现了20多年来最疯狂的百分比波动幅度之后，沪深两市均以深跌收盘。
The markets gyrated on Monday from initial gains of more than 3 percent, in response to the central bank’s action, to losses of more than 7 percent by early afternoon. The Shanghai market closed with a loss of 3.3 percent, while the especially volatile Shenzhen market plunged 6.1 percent.
周一的股市最初响应了央行的降息之举，上涨逾3%，到了午后不久，却又演变成跌幅逾7%。沪市收挫3.3%，极不稳定的深市则下跌6.1%。
The losses pushed both stock exchanges into bear markets, with stock prices declining more than 20 percent since their peak on June 12. Much of those losses came in just the last two trading days, as indexes at both exchanges fell more than 7 percent on Friday.
这些损失使得两大交易所均陷入熊市。股价自6月12日达到顶峰以来重挫了逾20%，其中大部分损失是在过去的短短两个交易日产生的。沪深两市的指数在上周五的跌幅均超过了7%。
Heavy losses among individual investors pose an economic and financial dilemma for the government and possibly a political challenge as well, if unhappy speculators start protesting that the government should do more to help the market.
散户损失惨重的现象使政府陷入了经济与金融困境，还可能带来政治挑战——如果心怀不满的投机者开始抗议，认为政府应该采取更多举措救市的话。
Even with Monday’s losses, Chinese stock markets have doubled in the past year. Much of that increase has stemmed from a series of signals from the government that it wanted buoyant stock markets. The official Xinhua news agency even produced a prominently distributed analysis on Sunday that the markets remained healthy and sound.
即便周一遭受重挫，中国股市还是在过去一年里翻了一番。其中的主要原因在于政府发出了表示希望抬升股市的一系列信号。官方媒体新华社周日甚至发表分析文章称，股市依旧平稳健康。这篇文章获得了广泛传播。
As the markets have sunk, they have begun to take a heavy toll on the many investors who borrowed much of the money that they eagerly invested in what had seemed like a robust bull market. Mr. Wang said that one of his friends, who owns his own company, had lost all of his accumulated earnings from years of stock market investments and half the principal that he originally put into the market.
股市的缩水已经开始给因为急于进入看似强劲的牛市而借钱炒股的不少投资者造成惨重的损失。王佳沧表示，他的一个开公司的朋友将多年来从股市赚的钱全赔进去了，还损失了一半的本金。
“He almost wants to kill himself,” Mr. Wang said. “I asked him out Saturday. He didn’t come out. He was lying at home, listless.”
“他差点想要自杀，”王佳沧说。“我周六叫他出来。他没有动。无精打采地躺在家里。”
Market strategists and economists have had varying views on the reasons behind the Chinese stock market rally that lasted through mid-June. Some have suggested it was underpinned by a genuine and sustainable increase in demand for Chinese shares, as interest rates have been falling, the stumbling real estate market has seemed unappealing and households have had lots of cash in bank deposits paying just 2 percent interest.
对于中国股市持续到6月中旬的上涨趋势背后的原因，市场策略师和经济学家众口不一。有些人认为，由于利率的不断下调，不景气的房地产市场似乎又丧失了吸引力，而持有大量现金的家庭在银行的存款只有2%的利息，人们对股票投资的需求存在真正的、可持续的增长。
Moreover, China has been in discussions with companies managing the leading international stock indexes on when its shares might be included in those indexes. When that occurs international money managers will need to pump tens of billions of dollars into mainland Chinese stocks or else risk having their investment returns diverge substantially from the best-known benchmarks.
此外，中国一直在与管理知名国际股票指数的公司讨论将中国股市纳入指标的可能性。如果此事成真，国际资金管理机构就需要将数百亿美元的资金注入中国大陆的股市，否则就要承担投资回报与最知名的基准指标脱节的风险。
But skeptics have suggested for months that China’s soaring share prices were really a case of pure speculation. They point out that China’s economic growth rate has been steadily slowing. Many corporations, particularly state-owned enterprises, are struggling to make timely interest payments on their heavy debts. Wages are rising steeply, pinching corporate profit margins, because of a shrinking supply of young workers, a result of increasingly stringent enforcement of the “one child” demographic policy through the 1990s.
不过，好几个月来，持怀疑态度的人士反复表示，中国不断飙升的股价纯属投机的结果。他们指出，中国的经济增长率一直在稳步放缓。很多企业，尤其是国有企业，为其沉重的债务及时支付利息都不容易。因为年轻劳动力人口的不断萎缩，持续上涨的工资成本压缩了企业的利润空间。这是中国到20世纪90年代严格执行“独生子女”人口政策导致的一个结果。
Why the Chinese stock markets finally peaked and began descending is also the subject of vigorous debate. Some have suggested that the market was so high that a drop was inevitable. Others point out that an easing of regulations on home purchases has started to kindle a recovery in prices of apartments, the main alternative to investing in stocks.
至于中国股市为何终于攀至顶峰又开始下挫，这也是人们激烈争论的一个话题。有些人认为，股市如此高企，下跌不可避免。另外一些人则指出，购房政策的放宽开始让房地产价格回暖，而楼市是股市的主要替代投资渠道。
Almost no one thinks that the Chinese markets’ troubles reflect issues in Europe or elsewhere. “I do not believe the situation in Greece has that big an impact on the mainland stock market,” said Andy Wong, a longtime Hong Kong stockbroker.
几乎没有人认为中国股市的下挫反映了欧洲或其他地方的问题。“我相信希腊局势不会对内地股市有那么大的影响，”香港资深股票经纪人安迪·黄(Andy Wong)说。
The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong fell 2.6 percent on Monday and had smaller losses last week. The city’s more sophisticated investors did not bet as heavily on a bull market over the past year, as the Hang Seng lagged considerably behind mainland indexes. But that has left Hong Kong investors less perturbed by recent losses.
香港恒生指数本周一下跌了2.6%，上周的跌幅要稍小一些。在过去一年中，比较老练的香港投资者没有对牛市押下那么重的赌注，恒生指数一直明显滞后于大陆股指。不过，这也使得近期的跌势对香港投资者的影响较小。