TOKYO — For years, the Big Three makers of video game consoles — Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo — have coveted access to China, a potentially huge but mostly closed market. Finally, China has cracked open the door, but industry experts say console makers may still struggle to break through to the next level.
东京——游戏机三大巨头索尼(Sony)、微软(Microsoft)和任天堂(Nintendo)对中国已经觊觎多年，但这个潜在的巨大市场基本上是封闭的。现在中国终于打开了大门，但业内专家表示，游戏机厂商可能仍然难以在这个市场上实现突破，发展到一个新的水平。
The Chinese government published rules this week allowing foreign companies to make and sell video game equipment in a Shanghai free trade zone that was established last year. The notice, which elaborated on an announcement made in September, relaxes a ban on the sale of consoles, which Beijing imposed in 2000 in an effort to protect children from what were perceived to be the corrupting influences of video games.
本周，中国政府发布了一项决定，允许外国公司在上海去年建立的一个自由贸易区内生产和销售电子游戏设备。这个通知细化了去年9月的一项发布，放宽了游戏机销售的禁令。北京2000年下发该禁令，是为了保护儿童免受电子游戏可能带来的不良影响。
In theory, the change could give foreign companies access to a large and potentially lucrative market. By the end of 2013, China had about 490 million players of electronic and online games, an increase of 20.6 percent from the same time a year earlier, according to a state-run trade organization.
从理论上讲，做出这个改变之后，外国公司就可以进入这个可能有利可图的巨大市场。一个官方贸易组织的资料显示，到2013年年底，中国的电子和网络游戏玩家有4.9亿，比当年年初增加了20.6%。
Game industry revenue in China totaled 83.2 billion renminbi, or $13.8 billion, last year, up 38 percent from 2012, the group said. In the United States, by contrast, the business has been shrinking. Sales of games, excluding hardware, fell to $14.8 billion in 2012 from $16.3 billion in 2011, according to NPD, a research firm.
该组织表示，中国2013年游戏产业总营收为832亿人民币，较2012年增幅达38%。与此形成对比的是，在美国，这个产业一直在萎缩。研究公司NPD的资料显示，不包括硬件在内的游戏销售额，已经从2011年的163亿美元（约合人民币986亿元）降至2012年的148亿美元。
While console systems remain popular in the United States and other Western markets, the vast majority of Chinese players use personal computers and mobile phones or other handheld devices. That, analysts say, is unlikely to change even though Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo may now get their long-awaited entrée.
虽然在美国和其他西方市场，游戏机仍然相当流行，但在中国，绝大多数玩家使用的却是个人电脑、手机或其他手持设备。分析师说，即便索尼、微软和任天堂现在可以进入它们觊觎已久的市场，这种状况也不太可能改变。
“It’s not like the kids are going to walk into the candy store and see that they’ve suddenly invented chocolate,” said Lisa Cosmas Hanson, managing partner at Niko Partners, a research firm that specializes in the Asian video game business.
“这跟孩子们走进糖果店，看到巧克力突然被发明出来不一样，”亚洲电子游戏业务调研公司Niko Partners的管理合伙人丽莎·科斯马斯·汉森(Lisa Cosmas Hanson)说。
Game consoles like Sony’s PlayStation, Microsoft’s Xbox and Nintendo’s Wii are already widely available in China. Despite the official ban, smuggled or counterfeit versions are sold openly at some electronics stores. Yet sales of console games generated only $15 million last year in China, according to the game makers’ association.
在中国，很多地方的玩家都已经可以买到索尼PlayStation，微软Xbox和任天堂Wii这样的游戏机。虽然官方颁布了禁令，但走私或仿冒产品一直在一些电子产品商店公开销售。然而，这些游戏机厂商协会的资料显示，中国去年的游戏机游戏销售额只有1500万美元。
Most Chinese players prefer to play online games, which are often free initially. Game publishers then earn money from sales of additional game features or advertising. While this business model, called “freemium,” is growing elsewhere, too, the sale of packaged games for consoles remains more prevalent in the West.
大多数中国玩家更喜欢网络游戏，这一开始往往是免费的。然后，游戏发行商会从销售附加的游戏功能或广告中赚钱。虽然这种被称为“免费增值”(freemium)的商业模式也在其他地方日益流行，但在西方，游戏机游戏以盒装软件方式销售仍然比较普遍。
Console makers often lose money on hardware, at least early in the release cycle for new systems, and then recoup it through sales of games.
至少在新游戏机发售的早期，游戏机厂商经常会赔钱销售硬件，然后通过销售游戏来收回损失。
Given the primacy of the freemium model and the prevalence of media piracy in China, analysts say, console makers will be cautious about entering the country despite the relaxation of the ban. Or they might have to adopt a new approach, embracing the freemium approach for consoles so that these systems would resemble PC or mobile gaming.
由于中国盛行免费增值模式以及盗版猖獗，分析师称，尽管政府作出了解禁的决定，游戏机厂商对于进军中国也会持谨慎态度。它们也可能会采取新的做法，把免费增值模式运用到游戏机上，就像PC游戏或者移动游戏那样。
“Until regulations change to enforce copyright, these changes don’t matter,” said Atul Goyal, an analyst at Jefferies, a brokerage firm. “This doesn’t move the needle whatsoever. The era of consoles is over anyway. The real action is in mobile gaming.”
“在中国改变现行管理，有效保护版权之前，这些变化都不重要，”杰富瑞(Jefferies)经纪公司的分析师阿图尔·戈亚尔(Atul Goyal)说。“无论如何这都无法从根本上改变现状。游戏机的时代已经结束了。真正可以有所作为的领域是移动游戏。”
While copyright enforcement remains patchy in China, content regulations are tight, and this is another reason, analysts say, why console gaming is unlikely to take off quickly there. Many Western console games, especially those with violent, sexual or politically sensitive material, are unlikely to clear Chinese censors. And domestic game developers have focused on PC and mobile gaming, so console makers would face a shortage of games for Chinese players, at least initially.
中国的版权法执行力度水平参差不齐，与此同时，中国对内容的管控也很严格，分析师说，这是游戏机游戏不可能在中国很快发展起来的另一个原因。许多西方游戏机游戏，特别是涉及暴力、性或政治敏感题材的游戏，不太可能通过中国的审查。而中国本土的游戏开发商侧重在PC和移动游戏上，所以游戏机厂商会在中国面临游戏短缺的问题，至少在最初阶段是这样。
The rules, issued by the State Council, the central government’s cabinet, say that “gaming entertainment equipment that passes vetting of content by the cultural authorities may be sold into the domestic market.” But no guidelines were provided about what kinds of material would be deemed acceptable.
中国国务院发布的决定称“通过文化主管部门内容审查的游戏游艺设备可面向国内市场销售”。但对于什么类型的内容将被视为可以接受的，它并没有提供任何指导标准。
Peter Warman, chief executive of Newzoo, a video game research firm, said that rather than a liberalization, the change in the rules might actually be a move to clamp down.
电子游戏调研公司Newzoo首席执行官彼特·沃曼(Peter Warman)说，这种规则的改变所带来的未必是市场开放，实际上它有可能是一种打压方式。
“The fact that consoles and most probably individual games will have to go through an approvement process could give the government a bigger stick to regulate console and console game sales,” he said.
“游戏机必须经过一个审批程序，每个游戏也很可能需要审批，政府就掌握了一根更大的棍子来管束游戏机及其游戏的销售，”他说。
The document, posted on the central government’s website, was vague about other things, including timing. It stated that the rules were “temporary” — suggesting that they may be overtaken by later provisions.
这份发布在中央政府网站上的文件在时间等其他方面上含糊其辞。它称这些法规是“暂时”的，表明以后的规定有可能推翻它。
The government has also not explained how much of their production or development foreign game companies would have to do in the Shanghai free trade zone to take advantage of the rule change.
官方也没有解释外国游戏厂商必须在上海自贸区生产多少产品，或者开展多少研发工作，才能享受法规改变带来的实惠。
That helps explain the cautious reaction to the news from console makers.
这也是游戏机厂商对这一消息反应比较谨慎的一个原因。
“We recognize that China is a promising market, and we are studying developments there, but at this point we cannot comment further,” said Satoshi Nakajima, a spokesman for Sony Computer Entertainment, the company’s video game unit. Nintendo could not immediately be reached for comment.
“我们认为中国市场前景广阔，我们也正在研究在那里的发展，但是目前我们不能做出更多评论，”索尼的电子游戏部门“索尼电脑娱乐”(Sony Computer Entertainment)发言人中岛聪(Satoshi Nakajima)说。我们无法立即联系到任天堂予以置评。
Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft do not currently make consoles in Shanghai. Microsoft, however, last year set up a video game joint venture with BesTV New Media, a Chinese Internet TV company.
索尼、任天堂和微软目前都没有在上海生产游戏机。不过微软去年跟中国互联网电视公司百视通成立了一家电子游戏合资公司。
Microsoft said the venture “combines our strengths in entertainment and technology to foster a new development ecosystem within China,” adding that it would provide details at a later date.
微软表示，这个合资公司“结合了我们在娱乐和技术上的优势，希望在中国培养一个新的开发生态系统”，并表示将在日后提供详细信息。
“Our goal is to deliver a new generation of innovative family entertainment experiences for people in China and around the world, as well as contributing to the local economy in Shanghai,” Microsoft said in a statement attributed to Ralph Haupter, its chief executive for greater China.
“我们的目标是为中国和世界各地的人们，提供新一代创新型家庭娱乐体验，并促进上海本地经济的发展，”微软大中华区首席执行官贺乐赋(Ralph Haupter)在一份声明中表示。
Despite the uncertainties over the rule change, the news has generated considerable excitement in China. Suning, a leading electronics retailer, said on Sina Weibo, a Chinese microblogging site, that it had already dispatched sales teams to meet with makers of consoles and planned to offer them as soon as possible.
尽管本次解禁有一些不明朗的地方，它在中国还是引起了很大的兴奋。知名电子产品零售商苏宁在新浪微博上表示，它已经派出销售团队跟游戏机厂商见面，计划尽快地销售它们的产品。
But even some Chinese observers seemed unsure about how to react.
但连中国的一些观察者似乎也不确定该做出何种反应。
“Now there’s no need for either celebrations or panic,” said a commentary on the game industry news section of the Sina.com news website. “These are just the principles. There’s still some way to go from principles to detailed rules.”
“现在不必欢欣鼓舞或是惊慌失措，”新浪网游戏新闻栏目中的一篇评论说。“这些只是原则。从原则到细则，还有一段路程。”