HONG KONG — China’s banks may not be directly exposed to losses from the country’s soaring housing prices, but any slump in those prices could set off widespread public anger, data from a broad new survey of household finances indicates.
香港——中国飙升的房价出现下跌可能不会令该国银行蒙受直接损失，但任何类型的房价暴跌都可能引发众怒，一项覆盖范围广泛的、新的家庭财务调查显示。
The survey — the largest academic study of personal finances in China, with 99,000 individuals in 28,000 households interviewed late last summer — found that Chinese families have put their savings overwhelmingly into their houses. A combination of large down payments and soaring prices means that even if housing prices were cut in half, only 5 percent of homes would be worth less than the remaining balance on their mortgages, the survey found.
这项研究去年夏末对2.8万个家庭的9.9万人进行了调查，迄今为止是中国最大的个人财务状况学术研究。该研究发现，中国家庭把绝大多数积蓄用在购置住房上，而较高的首付比例和房价上涨过快相结合，意味着即使房价跌去一半，也仅有5%的住房价值低于尚未偿还的房贷余额。
But the survey, conducted by Southwestern University of Finance and Economics in Chengdu, China, also found that Chinese households have an inordinate share of their total assets in their homes, with very little diversification into stocks, bonds and other assets. Housing prices have been soaring for more than a decade in China, up as much as twentyfold in smaller towns that have been suddenly connected to big cities by high-speed rail lines, and up significantly in large cities as well.
但这项由成都西南财经大学进行的研究还发现，中国家庭把总资产的过多份额投入到了住房上，而分散投入到股票、债券和其他资产中的资产份额非常之少。中国的房价已经飙升了十余年，在一些突然通过高速铁路与大城市连接起来的小城镇，房价涨幅高达20倍，而大城市的房价也出现了大幅飙升。
If housing prices fall, “they’ll not get just a little angry, they’ll get tremendously angry,” said Li Gan, an economics professor at Texas A&M University who oversaw the study.
如果房价下跌，“他们不会只是有点生气，而是会愤怒至极。”这项研究的牵头人、德克萨斯州农工大学(Texas A&M University)经济学教授甘犁说。
Share prices fell 4.5 percent in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets last Monday and Tuesday before stabilizing at a lower level after the government announced that housing prices were rising more slowly, after years of double-digit percentage increases. The government has been trying to slow the rise in real estate prices through measures that include forcing banks to require down payments of 30 percent or more for the first home purchased, and even more money — or no mortgages at all — for subsequent homes.
中国政府上周宣布，在经过多年的两位数百分比增长之后，房价增速出现减缓，上海和深圳股市应声下跌，上周一和周二大盘跌去4.5%，之后稳定在较低水平。中国政府已经采取了一些措施来减缓房价的上涨，比如迫使银行对首套房要求30%或以上的首付，对二套及更多住房则要求更高的首付，或者干脆不提供房贷。
When property developers in Hangzhou tried a week ago to cut prices to reduce their large inventories of unsold apartments, earlier buyers who had paid more protested, demanding that the price cuts be rescinded, according to the state media. Some signs have also emerged that construction, which accounts for nearly one-fifth of China’s economic output, is starting to slow.
官方媒体报道，一周前，杭州一些房地产开发商试图通过降价来减少大量未售出的公寓库存，遭到了高价位买入公寓的早期业主的抗议，要求撤销降价。还有一些迹象显示，占中国经济产出将近五分之一的建筑业的增长步伐也已开始放缓。
The official China Daily newspaper published an unusually blunt editorial on Wednesday, warning that “Chinese policy makers must take measures to prevent house prices from becoming a source of financial instability, and they should prepare as early as possible to deal with the social impact that falling home prices may exert.”
官方媒体《中国日报》周三发布了异常直率的社论，警告“中国政策制定者必须采取措施防止房价成为金融不稳定的一个因素，他们应该尽早准备应对房价下跌可能带来的社会影响。”
In another sign of weakness in the Chinese economy, the government’s monthly survey of purchasing managers in manufacturing, released on Saturday, showed that sentiment in February was the weakest in eight months. The index dropped to 50.2, from 50.5 in January. A reading of 50 indicates expansion, while a lower reading indicates contraction in manufacturing.
中国经济疲软的另一个迹象是，政府上周六公布的制造业采购经理人月度调查显示，今年二月的商业信心降至八个月以来的最低点。该指数从一月的50.5降至50.2。50表明制造业在扩张，低于50表明在收缩。
Analysts have cautioned that although banks may have limited their direct exposure to household mortgages, the banking system has huge loans outstanding to property developers, construction companies and construction suppliers, like steel mills. Steel prices have been drifting down since last summer, an indication that demand may be faltering.
分析师们警告说，尽管银行可能已经限制了和家庭房贷有关的风险，但银行系统向房地产开发商、建筑公司和像钢厂这样的建筑供应商提供的大量贷款尚未偿付。自去年夏天以来，钢材价格就一直在下滑，这可能表明需求不足。
Households across the country have 66 percent of their assets in their homes, and in Beijing the figure is now 84 percent, the study from Southwestern University found. The comparable figure for the United States is about 41 percent.
中国家庭平均把66%的资产投入到住房上，北京的这个数字现在为84%，西南财大的研究发现。美国的这个数字约为41%。
Wealthy families in China often diversify into other assets, like shares of privately held companies, preventing the proportion of assets in housing from appearing to be even higher. But the middle class has put almost all of its money into homes, Mr. Gan said.
中国富裕家庭往往把资产分散投到其他资产上，比如私人公司的股份，因此住房资产的比例才没有被拉得更高。但中产阶层已经把几乎全部资金都投入到了住房上，甘犁说。
The study found that 87 percent of city dwellers already own their homes, which appears to be limiting the number of first-time home buyers left to hold up prices. The survey also found signs that urbanization may be slowing, as the young and the educated have already moved from rural areas to cities in extremely large numbers.
这项研究发现，87%的城市居民已经拥有自己的住宅，因此，支撑房价的首次购房者数量可能所剩有限。该研究还发现了城市化进程可能会放缓的迹象，因为已经有数量庞大的年轻人和受过教育的人从农村搬迁到了城市。
Financing for the survey came from Southwestern University and the state-controlled Agricultural Bank of China. But Mr. Gan said that the survey had been done with complete independence, following the latest statistical practices.
这项调查的资助方是西南大学和国有的农业银行。但甘犁表示，该调查是完全独立的，遵循了最新的统计标准。