China-based businesses and investors have been buying into New York City condominiums, hotels and office towers for years, but more recently, these firms have stepped up to take the lead on several major city developments.
多年来，中国企业和投资者一直在纽约市购置共管公寓(condominium)、酒店和写字楼；但最近，这些公司已开始更进一步，引领了市内好几个大型项目的开发活动。
Current projects in Manhattan and Brooklyn, including a full-block condo complex in South Williamsburg, are being headed by Chinese businesses, which until now have mostly invested alongside American companies, be it in new or existing buildings.
曼哈顿和布鲁克林目前进行着的项目——包括威廉斯堡南区(South Williamsburg)内占据一整片街区的共管公寓建筑群，正由中国企业牵头。到目前为止，无论开发对象是新楼盘还是已有建筑，这些中国企业大多与美国公司共同投资。
Perhaps the highest profile project involves the Greenland Group, which is based in Shanghai and is an arm of the city’s government. Greenland ventured into its first New York project when it bought a 70 percent stake in much of the residential portion of Brooklyn’s Atlantic Yards project from Forest City Ratner for $200 million. The site is also home to Barclays Center.
或许，最引人注目的项目出自绿地集团(Greenland Group)的手笔。绿地集团是上海市的市属国有企业，曾以2亿美元（约合人民币12亿元）的价格，从开发商Forest City Ratner处收购布鲁克林Atlantic Yards住宅项目70%的股权，成为该集团首次进军纽约市的开发项目。Atlantic Yards也是巴克莱中心(Barclays Center)的所在地。
The deal between Greenland and Forest City still awaits approval from the Chinese government, Forest City officials say, though they added that the federal government in this country has agreed to allow it.
据Forest City的官员表示，绿地和Forest City间的交易仍有待中国政府的批准。不过，他们补充道，美国联邦政府已经对这笔交易开了绿灯。
Specifically, the Treasury Department’s Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which reviews deals that could involve foreign entities taking control of American businesses, signed off on it this spring, said Joe DePlasco, a Forest City spokesman. He said Forest City was not required to file with the committee but did so out of an abundance of caution.
确切地说，美国财政部负责审查那些可令外国实体掌控美国企业的收购的机构——外国投资委员会(Committee on Foreign Investment)，已在今年春签了字，Forest City的发言人乔·德普拉斯科(Joe DePlasco)表示。他说，Forest City并未被要求向委员会提交申请，但是公司这么做是为了谨慎起见。
Mr. DePlasco added that Greenland would be an active development partner and not just an investor, which means that it would help build about 6,000 units, or 4,100 rentals and 1,500 condos across 14 buildings, though it is not involved in the construction of the modular 363-unit rental tower going up on the site now. Critics have said that Forest City is taking too long to complete the housing portion of the Atlantic Yards project.
德普拉斯科还指出，绿地将成为活跃的开发合作伙伴，而不仅仅是投资商。也就是说，绿地将协助建造14个楼盘中的大约6000个住宅单位，或说是4100套出租屋和1500套共管公寓；不过，该集团并没有参与那栋包括363套标准化单位的出租楼盘当前的施工活动。批评人士已经指出，Forest City在Atlantic Yards项目的住房工程上花费的时间太长了。
Meanwhile, in Manhattan, China Vanke, China’s largest residential developer, is engaged in its first New York project in partnership with RFR Holding to build a new 61-story condo at 610 Lexington Avenue. The slender white tower, which was designed by Norman Foster, the British architect, will be constructed on a long-empty site that once held a YWCA, next to the RFR-owned Seagram Building. The condo broke ground in February.
与此同时，在曼哈顿，中国最大的住宅开发商中国万科(China Vanke)正携手RFR控股集团，开展其在纽约的第一个项目，于列克星敦大道(Lexington Avenue)610号新建一座61层的共管公寓楼。这座狭长的白色大楼，由英国建筑师诺曼·福斯特(Norman Foster)设计，届时将在一处长久闲置的地皮上拔地而起。该地皮曾是基督教女青年会(YWCA)的会址，旁边是RFR所有的西格拉姆大厦(Seagram Building)。这栋共管公寓楼已于2月开始破土动工。
But the Chinese-led project that is farthest along, and perhaps the boldest of the bunch because it is a solo effort, is the condo in Brooklyn called Oosten, at 429 Kent Avenue, between South Eighth and South Ninth Streets.
不过，在中国企业牵头的项目中，耗时最长、或许也是最大胆的项目，还要属布鲁克林一处叫做东河湾(Oosten)的共管公寓。这是一个独资项目，位于肯特大道429号，地处南8街和南9街之间。
Offering 216 homes surrounding a courtyard, Oosten is the first-ever ground-up American project from the Xin Development Group International, an arm of Xinyuan Real Estate Company, the major Chinese home-building firm. And Xin has not teamed with other developers or investors for the $250 million undertaking, which will have a mix of apartments and townhouses, according to Ryan Black, the firm’s director of development.
东河湾是一栋三面合围式建筑，包括216套住宅，是中国住宅开发大鳄鑫苑置业(Xinyuan Real Estate Company)旗下的XIN Development Group International在美国建起的首个项目。据公司开发总监莱恩·布拉克(Ryan Black)表示，公司并未与其他开发商或投资者合作。该项目耗资2.5亿美元（约合人民币16亿元），包括公寓和联排别墅。
Oosten (pronounced OH-stin), is the Dutch word for east, which is a nod to New York’s Dutch origins and the fact that the condo sits east of Manhattan, and near the East River, according to its developers. Also, Piet Boon, Oosten’s architect, is from the Netherlands. And just as in English, “east” in Dutch is shorthand for Asia, which honors the developer’s home — and which may help lure Chinese buyers.
项目的名称“Oosten”（发音“OH-stin”）在荷兰语中是“东”的意思。这是对纽约市的荷兰殖民起源的回应，同时也印证了公寓本身的方位——地处曼哈顿东部，临近东河(East River)。另外，Oosten的设计师皮特·布恩(Piet Boon)也来自荷兰。而且与英语类似的是，在荷兰语中，“东(east)”也是“亚洲(Asia)”的缩写，体现了对开发商祖国的尊重——进而也有助于吸引中国卖家。
Oosten’s most intriguing move may be its attempt to put a stylish stamp on a rough-edged industrial area south of the Williamsburg Bridge that has seen little in the way of major residential construction since the Schaefer Landing condo-and-rental complex went up across the street a decade ago.
东河湾最引人注目的举动或许在于，它为威廉斯堡桥(Williamsburg Bridge)南部粗犷的工业区打上了时尚的烙印。10年前，Schaefer Landing共管公寓和出租屋建筑群在街对面拔地而起，自此之后，当地一直鲜有大型住宅开发项目。
There, sidewalks are more likely to be lined with graffiti than any trendy single-origin coffee shops, meaning the area has a much different look and feel from Williamsburg’s more settled sections, which Mr. Black acknowledges. Condos in general are also rare in this part of the neighborhood.
布拉克坦言，在这里，人行道边的景观一般都是涂鸦，而不是出售单一产地咖啡的时髦店面。也就是说，跟威廉斯堡生活气息更浓的地方相比，这里的面貌和氛围截然不同，共管公寓从整体上讲比较罕见。
But, he says, Oosten, which will offer 13,860 square feet of landscaped open space at its center, is embracing its on-the-sidelines location. “Williamsburg has sort of evolved like the meatpacking district,” Mr. Black said, referring to the once-gritty neighborhood in Manhattan.
不过，他说，东河湾在积极接纳其地处边缘地带的位置，将在中心区域留出13860平方英尺（约合1288平方米）的开阔地，用于造景。“威廉斯堡已变得有点像肉库区(meatpacking district)了，”布拉克说。他说的肉库区位于曼哈顿，曾经是个粗犷的社区。
“Living there used to be fun, and then it became too hip, too touristy,” he said. “Being in the middle of it is not always the best place to be.”
“以前，在那里生活很有乐趣。后来那里变得太时髦、太受观光客喜爱了，”他说，“中心地带并不总是最好的地方。”
Xin isn’t the first developer to try to colonize the two-acre site, which for decades was part of a Schaefer beer brewery that closed in 1976.
而东河湾的所在地是一处2英亩（8094平方米）的地皮，几十年来一直隶属于在1976年关门的Shaefer啤酒厂。XIN并不是第一家试图开发这块地皮的地产商。
During the last boom, the North Development Group, a local firm, had planned to build apartment buildings there and got as far as pouring foundations, but the firm later defaulted on a loan for the project and ultimately lost the site, according to Xin officials. Xin bought it and its debt for $54 million in 2012.
据XIN的官员称，在上一个房市繁荣期，一家本地公司North Development Group计划在这里建设公寓，而且已经开始打地基，不过这家公司随后在一笔项目贷款上违约，最终失去了地块。XIN就于2012年以5400万美元（约合人民币3亿元）的价格买下了这块地皮，负担了其债务。
But strings were attached to the property. A pre-existing deed restriction stipulated that the site could have only 216 units; also dictated was the height, at seven stories, and that courtyard.
但是，开发这处地产是有条件的。一项已有的交易限制规定，这块地皮只能建216套单位；此外，楼盘的高度也限制在了七层，庭院也是必需的设施。
Xin will also be responsible for reactivating the block of South Ninth Street that runs along the site, which had been closed to traffic for decades.
XIN还承担着让楼盘所在的南9街街区恢复活力的责任。这片街区已经有几十年未通车了。
Wanting to boost the amount of outdoor space, and give more texture to the building’s facade, Xin actually decreased the average sizes of the units, while keeping the total the same, at 216, Mr. Black said.
布拉克说，因为想要扩大室外空间、使大楼正面更加壮观，XIN实际上减少了住宅单元的平均面积，同时把总套数维持在了216个。
The apartments, which will be completed by 2016, will nevertheless be hefty by New York standards. Though the smallest will be one-bedrooms, with 690 square feet, the largest will have six bedrooms; there will be four of those.
不过，从纽约的标准来看，这些预计2016年竣工的公寓依然是很大的。虽然最小的是面积690平方英尺（约合64平方米）的一居室，但是最大的户型有六间卧室，而这样的公寓有四套。
All units will feature hardwood floors, and limestone or marble baths, and apartments on the higher floors will enjoy East River views from this site, which is a block away from the waterfront. Oosten will also offer 15 townhouses, which will line the side streets and have underground garages.
所有公寓都将铺设硬木地板，配有石灰石或大理石浴室。高层的公寓将可以看到东河的景观。东河距离楼盘所在地，仅一个街区之遥。东河湾还将提供15套沿街而建的联排住宅，配备地下车库。
Amenity-wise, a 55-foot pool will shimmer in the basement fitness center; a shallower, reflecting version will top a roof. There will also be a 90-space parking garage with spaces residents can lease separately.
在配套设施方面，地下室的健身中心将配备55英尺（约合17米）的泳池；屋顶上也会建一座稍浅的泳池。大楼还将配备一个停车场，包含90个车位，住户可将车位单独出租。
But the complex won’t be adding shops to its block, which sits near a housing project and empty factory buildings; a 10,000-square-foot community space is likely to be leased as an art gallery, Mr. Black said.
不过，该建筑群不会为所在街区增设商铺。街区附近有一个住宅项目和多座空置的工厂建筑，预计有1万平方英尺（约合929平方米）的社区空间可能会被作为画廊出租，布拉克说。
That garage will also be a place to stash bicycles, either in a shared room or in the private storage spaces accorded to each home. Making bicycle travel convenient was a priority for Mr. Boon, who lives in Amsterdam, where many pedal to get around.
停车场还会作为存放自行车的地方。具体做法或是设立一个公共的存放间，或是为每户分配一个私人存放空间。方便自行车出行是布恩优先考虑的事项。布恩生活在荷兰，那里有很多人骑车出行。
In fact, the neighborhood, where sneakers were twisted on overhead cables on a recent afternoon, reminds Mr. Boon of the grittier parts of Amsterdam’s harbor area, he said.
布恩说，事实上，近段时间有一天下午，他看到人们把运动鞋挂在半空中的电缆上，就想起了荷兰港区的一些比较粗犷的地方。
Oosten apartments will have floor-to-ceiling windows to drink in the views, like his other New York project, Huys, at 404 Park Avenue South, a conversion of an office to a condo, where Mr. Boon installed extra glass. “I think it’s important to get a lot of light,” he said.
东河湾的公寓将安装落地窗，便于住户一边畅饮，一边观景。布恩在纽约的另一个项目上也采用了这样的设计。在公园大道南404号的Huys大楼，布恩安装了额外的窗玻璃。“我觉得充足的采光很重要。”他说。
Unit prices, meanwhile, are competitive for the neighborhood, about $1,000 a square foot or starting at around $700,000 for one bedrooms, which brokers say is on par with South Williamsburg but below what Northside condos get.
与此同时，公寓的价格对于社区来说也很有竞争力。一套居室的售价在每平方英尺1000美元（约合每平方米人民币7万元）左右，或说以大约70万美元（约合人民币437万元）起价。经纪人表示，这样的水平与威廉斯堡南区齐平，但是比北区的共管公寓要低。
Sales, which are being handled by Halstead Property, are supposed to kick off in June.
公寓的销售由霍尔斯特德地产(Halstead Property)负责，预计将于6月开始。
As for what kind of buyers will show up, Mr. Black expects them mostly to be American. So far, Chinese buyers who can afford properties at this price level and who are looking for pieds-à-terre in the city have gravitated to places like Midtown, which is near many tourist attractions.
至于公寓将吸引哪些买家，布拉克认为，买家将以美国人居多。到目前为止，在纽约市寻找落脚点并且能负担起这个价位的中国买家，都比较青睐中城这样的地方，靠近众多旅游景点。
Besides, Oosten doesn’t have any of the studios that have been popular with Chinese investors, who turn around and rent them out, he added. Still, he admitted the condo will probably attract some overseas purchasers.
况且，东河湾里没有多少受中国投资者青睐的那种单间公寓(studio)。中国投资者一般会将这些房源转租出去，布拉克补充道。不过，他仍表示，这些共管公寓可能会吸引一些海外买家。
“We have a strong presence in China,” Mr. Black said. “Of course we’re going to market there.”
“我们在中国的市场地位非常稳固，”布拉克说，“我们肯定能在那里找到市场。”