HONG KONG — Prices of new homes in China continued to soar in September, defying government efforts to cool the market and highlighting some of the challenges Beijing faces as it seeks to rebalance growth and rein in risks that have built up in the economy during the past five years.
香港——9月份中国新房价格继续飙升，尽管政府采取了措施冷却楼市，这突显出北京在推动经济再平衡、遏制过去五年里中国经济蓄积的风险时面对的挑战。
Rising affluence, relatively cheap credit and the gradual urbanization of Chinese society, in which millions of people have moved from the countryside to cities, all have contributed to demand for new homes, pushing up prices.
富人不断增加、相对廉价的信贷以及中国社会逐渐城市化（数以百万计的农村居民成为城市居民），都是驱动新房需求，推高房价的因素。
As in previous months, the sharpest gains were in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, metropolises whose populations have ballooned as workers from other parts of the country have flocked there in search of jobs.
与此前几个月一样，9月新房价格涨幅最大的地方是北京、上海、广州和深圳等人口急剧膨胀的大城市，许多人离开自己的家乡涌进这些大城市寻找工作。
Home prices in Beijing leaped 16 percent in September from a year earlier, picking up from the already large increases of previous months. Prices in Shanghai jumped 17 percent, and new homes in Shenzhen and Guangzhou were one-fifth more expensive. Gains in other cities were less drastic — prices in cities like Urumqi, Wuhan and Nanjing, for example, rose about 10 percent, and those in Haikou, on the southern island of Hainan, edged up 1.1 percent.
在此前几个月大幅上涨的基础上，北京的房价9月份同比跃升16%。上海房价跃升17%，深圳和广州的新房价格同比飙升五分之一。其他城市的房价涨速没有这么剧烈，乌鲁木齐、武汉和南京等城市的房价上涨约10%，而南方海南岛的海口市房价仅微涨1.1%。
The government has sought in recent years to rein in property price growth, taking measures like imposing higher down payment requirements. But it has steered clear of more drastic constraints, like property taxes, for fear of depressing a sector that is hugely important to the economy. At least 10 percent of China’s gross domestic product comes directly from the construction and real estate sectors — and far more when the industries that supply them and the consumption linked to the purchases of homes are taken into account, analysts estimate.
近年政府一直在试图遏制房价涨势，为此出台了提高首付要求等措施。但由于担心伤及对经济十分重要的房地产行业，中国政府并未采取更严厉的制约措施，比如开征房产税。分析师们估计，中国至少有10%的国内生产总值直接来自建筑和房地产行业，如果考虑到为这些行业供货的行业以及与购房相关的消费，这一比重将会更高。
“The housing market performance has been much stronger than the market had expected at the beginning of the year,” China economists at JPMorgan’s offices in Hong Kong wrote in a research note on Tuesday.
摩根大通(JPMorgan)驻香港的中国经济学家周二在一篇研究简报中写道，“楼市的表现比年初市场的预期要强劲得多。”
While this has been an important engine of economic growth, particularly at a time when overall growth has been flagging, it has also created problems. Investment in real estate has crowded out investment in other industries, the JPMorgan analysts wrote, and the high prices in major cities had become a major source of social dissatisfaction. This and the wide range of price increases within the China have complicated the government’s efforts to cool the market.
虽然该行业迄今是驱动经济增长的一个重要支柱，尤其是在整体增长乏力之际，但它也带来了很多问题。摩根大通的分析师们写道，对房地产的投资排挤了对其他行业的投资，同时大城市的高房价已成为社会不满的一大来源。再加上中国国内物价大范围上涨，这些都加大了政府冷却楼市的复杂性。
“In terms of policy, we see no grand tightening in the offing, except that banks are extending fewer mortgages,” said Yao Wei, China economist at Société Générale. Long-term solutions, including property taxes, land reform and sustainable funding sources for affordable housing, she said, will be slow to come.
法国兴业银行(Société Générale)中国经济学家姚炜说，“从政策角度来看，除了银行放慢提供房贷的速度之外，我们认为不会在近期出现大的收紧政策。”她说，包括房产税、土地改革和为经济适用房落实可持续资金来源在内的长期解决方案，不会很快出现。