They may “hold up half the sky,” as Mao once said, but Chinese women are often kept in their own lane. They get lower pay, are forced to retire earlier and have fewer leadership positions than men.
毛泽东曾说“妇女能顶半边天”，但是中国女性却常常被限制得死死的。与男人相比，她们拿着更低的工资，必须更早退休，而且占据着较少的领导职位。
Now, the authorities who run China’s airports are giving women — or relegating them to, some might say — their own security line.
目前，中国的机场运营者正在为女性设立一个专用的安检通道——也会有人说，这是为了限制她们。
Beijing Capital International Airport has officially added women-specific lines after a three-month trial. The metropolises of Shenzhen, Kunming and Wuhan have done the same.
在经历了3个月的试运行后，北京首都国际机场正式开通了女性专用安检通道。一些大城市，如深圳、昆明和武汉也采取了同样措施。
They are marked by bright pink signs that say “Female Only” in Chinese and English.
这些通道设有亮粉色的标识，上面用中英文写着“女性专用”。
The government’s rationale is that women want to avoid being frisked by men. In the women’s lanes, the security guards are all women.
政府认为，女性不希望被男性搜身安检。在女性通道里，安检人员全都是女性。
Women also carry bags of personal cosmetics that need to be opened and inspected, requiring greater scrutiny, one security guard told state media. The implication is that they are slowing down other (male) travelers with less fussy baggage.
一名安检人员告诉官方媒体，女性包里还会携带个人化妆用品，需要打开并更加仔细地检查。潜台词是对那些没有携带这么麻烦的行李的（男性）旅客而言，女性拖累了通行速度。
The policy follows an impulse in official circles these days to shield women from degrading or hostile experiences — an impulse that some see as a revival of paternalistic customs. Some indicators of women’s standing in Chinese society, including pay ratios in cities, seem to show their progress slowing as China has grown more prosperous.
如今官方正在推动保护女性免遭侮辱或敌意——有人将此视为父权社会习惯的重现，这项政策也应运而生。在中国繁荣发展的同时，一些体现女性在中国社会地位的指标，包括城市工资水平，都进步缓慢。
Plenty of women have no objection to the separate treatment at the airport, though; they say the segregated lines move faster than the unisex ones.
不过，许多女性对于在机场的区别待遇并无反对。她们表示，分开的通道比男女共用的通道要快一些。
In fact, when a state-run bus company in the eastern city of Zhengzhou recently introduced a women-only bus at rush hour to cut down on groping, the complaints came mainly from men who had to wait for the next bus.
事实上，郑州的一个国营公交车公司最近在高峰时期设立了一辆女性专用车，以减少骚扰女性的现象。抱怨声音主要来自那些不得不等着下一辆车的男性。