The Chinese writer Liu Cixin has won the 2015 Hugo Award for best science-fiction novel. It is the first time the prestigious prize has gone to a Chinese writer and the first time that multiple finalists were originally written in languages other than English, the World Science Fiction Society announced.
中国作家刘慈欣荣获了2015年最佳科幻小说雨果奖(Hugo Award)。据世界科幻协会(World Science Fiction Society)宣布，这是中国作家第一次获得这个久负盛名的奖项，也是第一次出现多部入围作品最初由英语以外的语言写成的情况。
The award is for “The Three-Body Problem,” which was published in English last year by Tor Books and is the first volume of a trilogy that has been a major best seller in China. The story, set against the backdrop of the Cultural Revolution, involves a secret military project that sends signals into space to establish contact with aliens. The signals are received by an alien civilization that is on the brink of destruction and decides to invade Earth.
刘慈欣本次获奖的作品是《三体》三部曲中的第一部，其英译本去年由托尔图书出版社(Tor Books)出版。该三部曲在中国非常畅销，故事设置在文革的大背景下，讲述一个秘密军事项目将信号发送到太空中，与外星人建立了接触，但一个处于毁灭边缘的外星文明接收到这些信号之后，决定入侵地球。
The English translation of the second volume, “The Dark Forest,” was published by Tor in early August. The third volume, “Death’s End,” is set for release next year.
今年8月初，托尔图书出版了三部曲第二部《黑暗森林》的英译本。第三部《死神永生》的英译本定于明年出版。
In an interview with The New York Times last year, Mr. Liu attributed the popularity of his novels in China to the country’s uncertainties in the middle of fast-paced change, since science fiction plays on people’s fears and hopes for the future.
去年接受《纽约时报》采访时，刘慈欣把其作品在国内的旺盛人气，归功于中国快节奏变化中夹杂的不确定性，因为科幻小说诉诸的是人类的恐惧和对未来的希望。
“China is on the path of rapid modernization and progress, kind of like the U.S. during the golden age of science fiction in the ’30s to the ’60s,” Mr. Liu said at the time. “The future in the people’s eyes is full of attractions, temptations and hope. But at the same time, it is also full of threats and challenges. That makes for very fertile soil.”
“中国正处在高速现代化与发展的过程中，有点像20世纪30年代到60年代的美国，那也是科幻小说发展的黄金时期，”刘慈欣当时说。“人们眼中的未来充满魅力、诱惑与希望。同时也充满威胁和挑战。这为科幻小说提供了肥沃的土壤。”
The award was announced on Saturday at the World Science Fiction Society’s annual convention, or Worldcon, in Spokane, Wash.
该奖项是世界科幻协会上周六在华盛顿州斯波坎举办的Worldcon年会上公布的。