A group of Chinese tourists returning from Thailand became so agitated over seating arrangements that they have been shamed by China’s tourism authorities for damaging “the overall image of the Chinese people.”
一群从泰国返回的中国游客对飞机上座位安排的反应如此过激，以至于他们被中国旅游主管部门谴责为损害了中国人的“整体形象”。
On a Thai AirAsia flight to Nanjing, China, from Bangkok on Thursday, four tourists became enraged after flight attendants told them they could not sit together. The temporary separation, it appears, was too much to bear. The argument quickly escalated, with a woman in the group throwing hot water and instant noodles at a flight attendant.
在周四从曼谷飞往南京的泰国亚洲航空公司的航班上，当乘务员告诉四名旅客不能坐在一起时，他们被激怒。看来，他们无法忍受这种暂时的分离。与乘务员的争吵迅速升级，该组乘客中的一名女子把热水和方便面泼向空中乘务员。
In a video taken by a fellow passenger, another member of the group, a man wearing a gray T-shirt, is standing in the aisle and yelling that he will “bomb the plane.” His remarks draw more giggles than gasps from the other passengers.
在一名同机乘客拍摄的一段视频中，这群游客中另一名身穿灰色T恤衫的男子站在走道上破口大骂，称他将“炸飞机”。他的言论引来的更多是笑声，而不是乘客的倒吸凉气。
The dispute caused the pilot to turn the flight around midair and return to Bangkok, where the Thai police escorted the four off the plane. The Chinese government has not released the identities of the travelers, who were part of a tour group.
争吵导致飞行员在空中将飞机掉头返回曼谷，那里的泰国警察把那四名乘客押下了飞机。中国政府尚未公布这些旅客的姓名，他们是一个旅游团的成员。
In a statement issued on Saturday, the China National Tourism Administration criticized the four passengers for their “uncivilized behavior” and said it would record their bad behavior. The government body also plans to punish the travel agency that arranged the trip and the leader of the tour group for failing to fulfill their “responsibility to lead civilized tourism.”
中国国家旅游局在上周六发表的一份声明中，批评了这四名乘客为的“不文明行为”，并表示将其不良行为纳入记录。这个政府机构还打算惩罚该旅游团的领队，因其未履行好“文明旅游引导职责”。
Buoyed by rising incomes, more Chinese citizens are venturing abroad for the first time to enjoy Thai beaches, shopping in Paris and the picturesque hills of New Zealand. Chinese tourists have gained a reputation for splurging on designer goods while abroad, leading some retailers to hire Mandarin-speaking staff to cater to them. Some countries are also streamlining their visa processes in the hopes of attracting Chinese tourists. In Britain, the government’s  “China Welcome” campaign, which began last spring, aims to make the island nation “the most welcoming destination in Europe for Chinese visitors.”
在收入不断增长的鼓舞下，越来越多的中国公民首次前往国外旅游，享受泰国海滩，到巴黎购物，观赏新西兰风景如画的丘陵。中国游客在海外舍得花大钱购买名牌商品的名声已让一些零售商聘请会讲普通话的工作人员，专为他们服务。一些国家为了吸引中国游客还简化了签证过程。英国政府在今年春天开始了一个“欢迎中国”(China Welcome)活动，目的是把这个岛国打造成“中国游客在欧洲最受欢迎的目的地”。
But Chinese tourists have also gained a reputation for having poor manners. In recent years, a number of stories of Chinese tourists behaving badly have caused concern abroad and embarrassment at home.
但是，中国游客也获得了没有礼貌的名声。近年来，一些中国游客表现不好的故事在国外引起关注，也让国内的人尴尬。
Last year, members of a Chinese tour group made headlines when they pocketed stainless-steel cutlery from a Singapore Airlines flight, initially refusing to return them. In another incident last year, two Chinese men started brawling in a field of lavender in France after an argument over photography locations.
去年，一个中国旅游团的成员制造了头条新闻，因为他们拿了新加坡航空公司航班上的不锈钢餐具，起初拒不归还。在去年的另一起事件中，两名中国男子由于拍摄地点纠纷，在法国的一个薰衣草田野中开始斗殴。
A Chinese passenger on the Thai AirAsia flight who recorded the video can be heard saying that she would post it online because the man in the gray T-shirt was “just too ill-mannered.”
可以听到在泰国亚洲航空公司的航班上拍摄那段视频的中国旅客说，她将把视频放到网上，因为那个穿灰色T恤衫的人“素质太低了”。