Ni Zhen didn’t want to become a masseur, even though neighbors, educators and seemingly everyone else in his native Shandong Province urged him in that direction — because he is blind.
倪震不想当按摩师，尽管在山东老家的邻居、老师和差不多所有人都在力劝他做这一行——因为他是个盲人。
“The whole environment was saying, ‘Blind people can only do massage,’ ” said Mr. Ni, 28. “But I wasn’t the slightest bit interested.” Music was the other career considered suitable for a blind person, but while attending schools for disabled people in the cities of Tai’an and Qingdao he dreamed of taking the “gaokao,” the all-important university entrance examinations, so he could choose his subject freely. Yet, “the local education department said, ‘We don’t have the ability to let blind people do the gaokao,’” he said.
“整个大环境都在说，‘盲人只能做按摩’，但我半点兴趣都没有。”28岁的倪震说。音乐被认为是适合盲人的另一个行业，但在泰安和青岛的残疾人学校上学时，倪震却梦想着参加高考，以便可以自由选择专业。然而，“当地教育部门表示，‘我们没有能力让盲人参加高考。’”他说。
Mr. Ni seemed to bow to fate, taking a special examination for the blind and entering a five-year massage program. “I was rebellious because I didn’t like being forced to do something that I wasn’t into, and to have to spend so long doing it,” he said.
倪震似乎向命运屈服了，他参加了一个针对盲人的特殊考试，开始进行为期五年的按摩学习。“我那时很叛逆，因为我不喜欢被强迫做一些我不喜欢的事情，而且还得花那么长时间去做。”他说。
It has taken years for Mr. Ni to find his way, but he has: via Britain, where he completed a master’s degree in education at Durham University, and Hong Kong, where he is now studying law at the University of Hong Kong. And he has a message for the world, summed up by the title of a 77-page, unpublished manifesto he has written about disability in China: “Untapped Talent.”
虽然花了几年时间才找到自己的路，但倪震做到了，通过取道英国和香港：他获得了英国杜伦大学(Durham University)的教育学硕士学位，目前正在香港大学(University of Hong Kong)读法律。倪震要向世界传达一个讯息，他写了一本有关中国残疾人的宣言，全文77页，尚未出版，其标题《有待开发的人才》(Untapped Talent)就是这一讯息的总结。
Around the world, one in 10 people have some form of physical or mental disability. “They are the world’s largest minority,” according to United Nations Enable, the official website of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities. China says it has 85 million disabled people, about 6.5 percent of the population. The reasons for the lower figure aren’t clear.
在全球各地，每十个人中就有一个存在某种形式的身体或精神障碍。“他们是世界上数量最多的少数派。”联合国《残疾人权利公约》(United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities)官方网站“联合国与残疾人”(United Nations Enable)表示。中国说自己有8500万残疾人，约占总人口的6.5%。比例较低的原因尚不清楚。
For many, gaining access to treatment and jobs is a challenge. Poverty is a common companion. The World Bank estimates 20 percent of the world’s poorest are disabled. They face hurdles to getting a good education, reducing their chances of emerging from poverty.
对于很多残疾人来说，获得治疗和工作机会是一个挑战。贫困常常伴随着残疾而出现。据世界银行(World Bank)估计，世界上最贫穷人口中的20％是残疾人。他们在取得良好教育上面临的障碍也减少了摆脱贫困的机会。
In China, too, disabled people are poorer than their able-bodied peers with a disposable income about half of the national average. They are “one of the most needy groups in China, with many living below the poverty line,” Zhang Haidi, the chairwoman of the China Disabled Persons Federation, was quoted by Xinhua, the state news agency, as saying at the federation’s recent annual meeting in Beijing.
在中国，跟健全人相比，残疾人也更加贫困，他们的可支配收入大约为全国平均水平的一半。新华社援引中国残疾人联合会主席张海迪的话说，残疾人仍然是“最需要帮助的社会群体之一，很多还生活在贫困之中，”她是在残联最近一次在北京召开的年度代表大会上说这番话的。
China has signed and ratified the United Nations convention, the goal of which is to shift perceptions of disabled people from “objects of charity” to “subjects with rights,” the United Nations website said. In 2008, China gave disabled citizens the right to attend mainstream schools.Improvements are slow but real, said Xu Jiacheng, a professor of special education at Beijing Union University. In September 2012, about 8,700 disabled children began school in Beijing, with about 5,700 going to mainstream schools and nearly 3,000 to special schools, he said, citing government figures. Sometimes, though, the parents of able-bodied children object to the inclusion of disabled children in class. “We have some cultural attitudes to overcome,” he said.
联合国《残疾人权利公约》的目标是把人们对残疾人的看法从“社会扶助的对象”(objects of charity)转变为“享受各项权利的主体”(subjects with rights)，中国已经签署并批准了这项公约，联合国网站说。2008年，中国的残疾人有了进入普通学校的权利。北京联合大学特殊教育学院教授许家成表示，进展虽然缓慢，但却实实在在。他援引政府的数字说，2012年9月，约有8700名残疾儿童开始在北京上学，其中5700名进入普通学校，近3000名就读特殊学校。不过，健全儿童的父母有时候会反对残疾儿童随班就读。“我们有一些文化观念需要克服。”他说。
And the state is investing in people with disabilities, even if not always in the right way, experts said. In 2008, it spent 600 million renminbi, or $87 million, on 190 new schools for disabled people, “10 times what the government spent on education for the disabled in the whole of the decade between 1991 and 2001,” China Daily quoted an official at the federation as saying. The federation’s chairman is Deng Pufang, who is paraplegic and a son of Deng Xiaoping.
专家表示，中国正在残疾人事业上投入资金，即便有时候方式存在偏差。2008年，中国斥资6亿人民币，为残疾人士修建了190所新学校，“是政府从1991到2001年整整十年间投入的残疾人教育资金的10倍”，《中国日报》援引中国残疾人联合会一名官员的话说。该联合会名誉主席是邓小平的儿子邓朴方，一位高位截瘫的残疾人。
In 2009, it spent more than 12 billion renminbi on “comprehensive service facilities” for disabled people, about four billion more than the previous year, federation figures show.
残联的数字显示，2009年，中国在残疾人“综合服务设施”上投入资金逾120亿人民币，比上年多出约40亿元。
Yet more than buildings, China needs well-trained therapists, said John Giszczak, general manager of Eliott’s Corner, a private pediatric therapy center in Beijing.
但是，相对于建筑设施，中国更需要训练有素的治疗师，北京私立儿科治疗中心“胡宝小屋”(Eliott’s Corner)的总经理高瀚远(John Giszczak)说。
“That’s where they need to invest,” Mr. Giszczak said. “Eventually, they need to create armies of physiotherapists, occupational therapists and speech therapists, and they’re not doing that.”
“那就是需要他们投入的地方，”高瀚远说，“中国终究需要建立物理治疗师、职业治疗师和语言治疗师队伍，这些事情他们都还没有开始做。”
The profession’s low standing hampers its development, he said.
这些职业的地位较低阻碍了它们的发展，他说。
“There is no occupational therapy license in China,” Mr. Giszczak said. “There is a ‘kangfu’ or rehabilitation license. But you are below even nurses in the hospital system. You are considered a technician and have low status. The best students will go on to do a master’s in medicine or the general field and will not go on to practice in rehabilitation.” Physiotherapy and occupational therapy college degrees have just started in some universities, he said.
“中国没有职业治疗师资格证书，”高瀚远说，“有一种‘康复师’资格证书。但是在医疗系统中，康复师甚至还不如护士，他们被看成是技工，地位较低。最优秀的学生会继续深造，去念医学或者一般领域的硕士，不会再投身康复工作。”一些大学才刚刚开办物理疗法和职业疗法的专科教育，他说。
So despite the significant fixed-asset investment, Mr. Giszczak said, “There is a huge need, a huge dearth in rehabilitation.”
因此，高瀚远说，尽管作出了巨大的固定资产投入，“但在康复方面仍然有巨大的需求，十分匮乏。”
Meng Weina, the founder of Huiling, a nongovernmental organization for people with mental disabilities, said the government often felt its efforts were not appreciated.
慧灵智障人士服务机构创办者孟维娜说，政府经常感到自己的努力得不到认可。慧灵是一家非政府组织。
“They feel they have done a lot, they have invested a lot. And they have,” Ms. Meng said in an interview. But its urge to control has hampered its effectiveness, she said, with bureaucrats and politics, not specialists with real, on-the-ground experience, in charge.As a result, disabled people are suffering, she said. “People lack information,” leaving many parents of disabled children desperate, she said. “In the West, if a child is born disabled, a whole system kicks in to help. Early intervention. That’s not necessarily the case here. The government has hung up a lot of signs advertising services, but it can’t get the system internally to link up. Each part does its own things and guards it jealously.”
孟维娜在接受采访时说，“他们感觉自己做了很多事，做出了很大的投入，而且的确如此。”可是她说，政府的控制欲影响了其举措的效果，官僚和政治说了算，而不是那些真正有实际经验的专家。她指出，因此，残疾人还在承受痛苦。她说，“人们缺乏信息”，这让很多残疾儿童的父母走投无路。“在西方，如果一个孩子生下来有残疾，就会启动一整套体系提供帮助，进行早期干预。在这里，情况却未必是这样，政府挂起来了很多标语，宣传各种服务，但它却不能让整个系统从内部联动起来。每一块都在做自己的事，而且会小心地把守自己的领域。”
One result is that disabled people are not being integrated into mainstream society.
其后果就是，残疾人无法融入主流社会。
“The government hasn’t understood that disabled people need to grow up in society,” she said. “They build these huge places and stuff all these kids in them.” There is little incentive to change — the facilities are run by officials who may employ their relatives, she said.
“政府没有明白，残疾人需要在社会里成长，”她说，“他们会盖起巨大的建筑，然后把所有的孩子塞在里面。”她说，几乎没有改变的动力，那些设施都是官员在经营，他们则可能会雇佣自己的亲戚。
The lack of integration means disabled people aren’t often seen in public, and that impedes acceptance. For Mr. Ni, this is revealed not just in the big challenges like education, but also in the daily inconveniences.
缺乏融入就意味着公共场合并不经常见到残疾人，而这又会妨碍社会接纳残疾人。对倪震来说，这一点不仅体现在教育这样的大挑战上，也体现在日常生活里的种种不便上。
He divides his experiences into two distinct spheres: easy in Britain and Hong Kong, hard in mainland China. Public transport in China is very difficult to navigate as a disabled person, he said. When asking for directions on the street, people often respond with incomprehension.
他把自己的体验分为两个截然不同的空间：在英国和香港的便利和在中国内地的艰难。他说，残疾人很难利用中国的公共交通出行。在街上问路时，人们经常会以缺乏理解的姿态回应。
“I’d take out my” government-issued “disability card and ask the way,” he said. “People would point with their hands. I’d say, ‘I’m blind, I can’t see where you are pointing,’ because I could feel their movement. ‘Can you please describe it?’ ” They would still point, he said, even if they added words of description.
“我会拿出”政府发放的“残疾证问路”，他说，“人们却会用手指路，我能感觉到他们的动作。于是我说‘我是盲人，看不见你在朝哪儿指。请您描述一下好吗？’”可是，他说，即使加上语言描述，他们还是会用手指。
In a recent report on access to education for disabled people in China, the advocacy group Human Rights Watch presented many examples of exclusion, such as the 2009 enrollment charter of Capital Medical University in Beijing, which stipulated no admission for  “students with disabilities in the torso or the limbs.”
在倡导团体人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)最近就中国残疾人的受教育机遇发布的一份报告中，列举了很多将残疾人排除在外的例子。如位于北京的首都医科大学2009年的招生简章中规定，不招收“躯干和肢体残疾考生”。
Over 40 percent of disabled Chinese are illiterate, the report said, adding, “While government figures show near universal enrollment of children in primary school, there is a large gap for children with disabilities: 28 percent of such children are not receiving the basic education to which they are entitled.”
报告中说，中国有超过40%的残疾人不识字。报告还写道，“尽管政府数据显示，几乎所有儿童都可以进入小学就读，但是残疾儿童却有很大的差距，那些儿童里有28%得不到他们应得的基本教育。”
“Children with disabilities have the right to attend regular schools like all other children, and are entitled to support for their particular learning needs,” Sophie Richardson, China director for Human Rights Watch, said in a statement. “But instead some schools fail — or simply refuse — to provide these students what they need.”
“残障儿童有权和所有其他孩子一样到普通学校上学，并且有权依据他们个别的学习需求得到支持，”人权观察中国部主任索菲·理查森(Sophie Richardson)在一份声明中说。“然而有些学校未能──或干脆拒绝──提供这些学生的所需。”
Said Mr. Ni: “In the mainland of China, there is prejudice against the disabled. It’s not people’s fault. But they’re not educated to know how to understand us.”
倪震说：“在中国大陆，对残疾人有偏见。这不是民众的错，他们没有接受过相应的教育，不知道怎么理解我们。”
Yet like several other people, while he said China was moving in the right direction. Slowly.
然而他也像其他一些人一样，说中国正在朝正确的方向前进，尽管步伐很慢。
“I feel there is a lot of hope because the information age is here, and it’s giving us so many opportunities to learn,” he said. “There are fewer barriers. There’s access to international knowledge. I feel the direction is good and changes are afoot.”
“我感觉有很多希望，因为信息时代到来了，给了我们很多学习的机会，”他说，“障碍减少了，能够学到国际上的知识。我感觉方向是好的，改变正在发生。”
Mr. Giszczak said he believes the chances of building a solid educational system to train therapists are “quite good, long term. We’re talking 20 to 30 years.” Some special education university departments, he said, were “making real changes to the structure of their programs.”
高瀚远说，他相信建立起坚实的教育体系，培训理疗师的可能性“从长期来看很大。我们谈的是20到30年”。他说，一些面向特殊教育的大学院系，正在“对课程的结构作出实质性的改动”。
If education is the key to change — for disabled people, for the staff needed to educate them and the general public — then there is still much work to be done. Mr. Xu estimates that only 20,000 to 30,000 Chinese university students are disabled, out of a total student population of millions. Many of them, if they were blind like Mr. Ni, studied massage or music, the two subjects the state makes easily available. The state still does not offer disabled students access to the general “gaokao,” instead directing them to different systems, he said.
如果说教育是转变的关键，包括面向残疾人、面向公众，以及教育残疾人的专业人士所需的教育，那么需要开展的工作还有很多。许家成估计，在中国的数千万名大学生中，只有2万到3万名是残疾人。他们当中的很多人，如果像倪震一样是盲人的话，就会去学习按摩或音乐，这是国家规定可以方便就读的两个科目。他说，国家目前还不让残疾学生参加普通高考，而是让他们参加不同的系统。
“There is real progress,” he said. “But it’s not perfect, and there are still large gaps.”
“有实际的进展，”他说，“但是还不完美，还有很大的差距。”