As fears grow among residents of China’s cities that heavy air pollution is contributing to a rise in lung cancer, a major conference on the disease over the weekend in Beijing focused on a more familiar culprit: smoking.
正当中国城市居民对严重的空气污染导致肺癌发病率上升的担心不断增长之际，上周末在北京召开的相关重要会议则聚焦了一个人们更加熟悉的致癌原因：吸烟。
The number of deaths from lung cancer in China has increased by 465 percent over the past 30 years, doctors said at the Sixth China North-South Lung Cancer Summit, which brought together 300 experts. The theme of this year’s meeting: “Controlling tobacco and promoting the early detection and treatment of lung cancer,” according to CCTV, the state broadcaster.
医生们在第六届中国肺癌南北高峰论坛上指出，中国因肺癌死亡的人数在过去30年中的上升幅度为465%，有300名专家参加了这次会议。据国家的中央电视台报道，今年会议的主题是：“关注控烟与肺癌早诊早治”。
The report quoted Dr. Sun Yan, an eminent cancer specialist at the Xiehe Hospital in Beijing, as saying the causes for the rising rates of lung cancer included the aging population, smoking and environmental pollution.
报道引述了北京协和医院著名癌症专家孙燕的话说，恶性肿瘤快速上升的主要原因包括人口老龄化、吸烟和环境污染。
Lung cancer has replaced liver cancer as the leading form of cancer in China, the meeting heard, accounting for 22.7 percent of cancer deaths each year. That puts China in the same category as other nations, including the United States, where lung cancer ranks first. The incidence of lung cancer in China has been rising by 26.9 percent a year, CCTV reported.
在会上人们听到，肺癌已经取代肝癌成为中国的首要恶性肿瘤，每年因肺癌死亡的人数占所有癌症死亡人数的22.7%。这使中国加入到其他国家的行列，在包括美国在内的这些国家中，肺癌是第一大导致死亡的癌症。中央电视台报道称，中国肺癌发病人数每年增长26.9%。
China produces 1.7 trillion cigarettes a year, 2.5 times as many as the second biggest cigarette manufacturer in the world, the United States, according to CCTV. A report last year from the Brookings Institution said 2.3 trillion cigarettes were manufactured in China, or four times the number produced in the United States. Tobacco contributed between 7 percent and 10 percent of state revenues, the report said.
根据中央电视台报道，中国每年生产1.7万亿支香烟，这是世界上第二大香烟生产国美国年产量的2.5倍。布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)去年发布的一项报告指出，中国香烟年产量是2.3万亿支，也就是说，是美国的4倍。这份报告称，烟草带来的收入占国家总收入的7%-10%。
China also has the most smokers, about 350 million, of a total of 1.1 billion around the world, CCTV reported. This means the country has about one in three of the world’s smokers, despite having only one in six of the world’s people.
中央电视台的报道称，中国的烟民也是世界上最多的，中国烟民约3.5亿，而全世界有11亿。这意味着中国的吸烟者约占全世界的三分之一，而中国的人口只占全世界人口的六分之一。
China has introduced smoking restrictions in some public places such as restaurants, but they are often flouted, especially in smaller cities. Outside the major centers of Beijing and Shanghai, smoking remains the norm in hotel lobbies and restaurants.
中国已经在一些公共场所，比如餐厅，采取了禁烟措施，但经常有人违抗这种措施，尤其是在较小的城市。在北京和上海等主要城市中心区外，在酒店大厅和饭馆里吸烟依然是常态。
Unless major cancer prevention and treatment programs are put in place, the current figure of about one million Chinese dying each year from all smoking-related illnesses will rise to two million by 2025, and three million by mid-century, CCTV reported.
中央电视台报道称，如果不努力控制吸烟，到2025年中国死于烟草相关疾病的人数将增加至200万，到本世纪中叶将增加至300万，现在每年约有100万人死于烟草相关疾病。
Of all forms of cancers, those of the lung, breast, liver and colon had risen “most clearly” over the last 30 years, experts at the meeting said, with deaths from breast cancer recording an increase of 96 percent.
在所有类型的癌症中，肺癌、乳腺癌、肝癌和直肠癌在过去30年中的死亡率上升趋势“更加明显”，专家们在会议上说，其中乳腺癌死亡人数的上升幅度为96%。