China’s Education Ministry has told its staff to provide more “humane” service in this year’s university entrance examinations, or “gaokao,” and allow disabled people, particularly the blind, to take part. Advocates said this was the first time that the state had clearly spelled out that the blind could take the regular university examination, and how.
中国教育部宣布，今年高考将提供更加“人性化”的服务，允许残疾人、尤其是盲人参加。权益倡导者称，这是国家首次明确表示盲人可以参加每年一度的高考，以及如何参加。
Li Jinsheng, 46, who is blind, had long wanted to study law. He had waited years to hear the news of the policy change announced in late March. Excited, on Monday morning he completed a compulsory medical examination for the entrance exam and passed, he said. Now he’s deep in preparation for the exam in June.
今年46岁的盲人李金生（音译）一直希望能学习法律。他在等待多年之后，终于在3月底听到了政策变化的消息。他说，他十分兴奋，周一一早就去做了参加高考所必需的体检，并顺利通过。现在他正在全力以赴地为6月的高考做准备。
“I feel good,” he said in a telephone interview. Like many blind people, Mr. Li was trained in massage and runs a massage parlor in Zhumadian, in Henan Province. “I’ve wanted to do this for so long, and now I can,” he said, adding, “If I fail the exam, never mind, I just have to try.”
他在电话采访中说，“我感觉很好。”李金生与许多盲人一样，接受过按摩师训练，现在河南省驻马店市开了一家按摩院。他说，“很长时间以来，我一直想参加高考，现在终于可以了。”他还说，“如果失败了，也没关系，我只是想试试。”
China’s blind have long been shunted into special schools and professions deemed suitable for them, principally massage and music. As recently as last year the government refused to let them participate in the gaokao. Even now, said Huang Rui, a lawyer at the Henan Boyang Law Firm who says he is handicapped by a disability of his legs, the new regulation was only a first step on a long road. He welcomed the change, but said education for the disabled, including the blind, remains largely “a blank space.”
长期以来，中国的盲人只能在特殊学校学习，并从事被认为适合他们的职业，主要是按摩和音乐。直到去年，政府仍不让他们参加高考。河南博阳律师事务所的律师黄锐说，他的双腿有残疾，他说，即使现在出台了这项新规定，那也只是在一个很长道路上的第一步。他欢迎这个变化，但称，对包括盲人在内的残疾人来说，他们所能接受的教育在很大程度上依然是一个“空白区”。
“It’s the first time the Education Ministry has recognized that blind people have the right to take part in the gaokao, and that it has the responsibility to let them take part,” said Mr. Huang, in a telephone interview. “So in that sense it’s a pretty big step forward.”
黄锐在电话采访中说，“这是教育部首次承认盲人拥有参加高考的权利，而且教育部有责任让他们参加。在这个意义上，这是向前迈出的一大步。”
“But an examination is just a tool,” he said. “The entire education environment for blind people needs to be improved. They’ve made a rule now that people can take the exam, but there’s still a lot left to do. From the compulsory education years to university years, the education system is a blank space for blind people.”
“但是，考试只是一种手段，”他说，“针对盲人的整个教育环境需要改善。他们现在规定盲人可以参加高考，但仍有许多需要做的事情。从义务教育到大学的教育体系，对盲人来说是一片空白区。”
China says it has 85 million mentally and physically disabled people, about 6.5 percent of the population. Disabled Chinese are poorer than their able-bodied peers, with a disposable income about half of the national average, according to the China Disabled Persons Federation. They are “one of the most needy groups in China with many living below the poverty line,” Zhang Haidi, the chairwoman of the federation, was quoted by Xinhua, the state news agency, as saying at a meeting in Beijing last year.
中国称有8500万有智力或身体残疾的人，约占人口总数的6.5%。据中国残疾人联合会统计，残疾人比同龄的健全人更贫穷，他们的可支配收入约是全国平均收入的一半左右。国家通讯社新华社引用中国残疾人联合会主席张海迪去年在北京一次会议上的讲话说，他们是“中国最贫穷的群体之一，很多残疾人生活在贫困线上”。
China has signed and ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities, whose goal is to shift perceptions of disabled people from “objects of charity” to “subjects with rights,” according to the United Nations website. In 2008, China gave disabled citizens the right to attend mainstream schools.
中国已签署并正式批准了联合国《残疾人权利公约》(United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities)，联合国网站称，该公约的目标是改变人们对残疾人的看法，不再把他们当成“社会扶助的对象”，而把他们看作“享受各项权利的主体”。2008年，中国给予残疾人上普通学校的权利。
The new policy was laid out in the penultimate paragraph of a six-paragraph document from the ministry on how to handle this year’s examinations, titled: “A Notice Regarding Doing the 2014 General Gaokao Work Well.”
上述新政策出现在教育部有关今年高考工作文件的倒数第二段中，文件全称是《关于做好2014年普通高校招生工作的通知》，共六段。
In the notice, the Education Ministry called on all departments, educational establishments and officials involved in administering the examination to “improve their style and change their work skills,” “deal with serious outstanding problems” and “warmly love the students who belong to weaker groups.”
教育部在通知中呼吁，各级教育行政部门、招生考试机构以及与负责高考的官员，“加强作风建设和职能转变，着力解决突出问题”，还要“热情关爱弱势群体考生”。
The goal is to “offer students taking the examination more professional recruitment policies, a more humane examination service,” the notice said.
工作目标是“为考生提供更加专业化的招生政策咨询服务、更加人性化的考试服务”，通知称。
“Above all, they must actively take measures to offer disabled people equality in applying for and taking part in the university entrance examination. When blind people take the examination, they should offer them examination papers for the blind,” which could be in Braille or electronic form, and “offer the help of specialized staff,” the notice said.
“特别是要积极采取措施，为残疾人平等报名参加考试提供便利。有盲人参加考试时，为盲人考生提供盲文试卷、电子试卷或者由专门的工作人员予以协助，”通知称。