BEIJING — China sent fighter jets on the first patrols of its new air defense zone over disputed islands in the East China Sea on Thursday, the state news agency, Xinhua, said.
北京——中国官方通讯社新华社称，中国已于周四派遣战机，在东海争议岛屿上空新划设的防空识别区执行了首次巡逻任务。
The patrols followed announcements by Japan and South Korea that their military planes had flown through the zone unhindered by China.
此次巡逻紧随日本和韩国发布相关消息之后，日韩消息称，他们的军机飞越了前述防空区，没有遭遇中国的阻挠。
The tit-for-tat flights between China on one side and South Korea and Japan on the other heightened the tensions over the East China Sea where China and Japan are at loggerheads over islands they both claim.
中国与日韩之间针锋相对的行动突显了东海的紧张态势，中日两国都声称拥有一些东海岛屿的主权，由此陷入了剑拔弩张的局面。
The airspace in the new zone announced by China last week overlaps a similar zone declared by Japan more than 40 years ago. Both zones are over the islands known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan.
中国上周宣布划定的新防空区和日本40多年前宣布的类似防空区存在空域重叠。两个防空区都位于争议岛屿上空，这些岛屿在日本被称为尖阁诸岛，在中国被称为钓鱼岛。
China has said that noncommercial aircraft entering the zone without prior notification would face “defensive emergency measures.”
中国已经表示，不提前通知就进入前述防空区的非商业航空器将面临“紧急防御措施”。
China would take “relevant measures according to different air threats” to defend the country’s airspace, Xinhua reported.
新华社报道称，中国将“根据不同的空中威胁”采取“相应的措施”来捍卫本国领空。
In a direct challenge to earlier threats by China that it could take military action against foreign aircraft entering the zone, the United States sent two unarmed B-52 bombers to fly through the airspace for more than two hours overnight Monday.
早些时候，中国威胁说，将对进入该空域的外国飞行器采取军事行动。周一夜间，美国对这一威胁发起了直接挑战，派出两架未携带武器的B-52轰炸机，在前述空域飞行了两个多小时。
The Chinese military said it had monitored the flight path of the American planes, and China appeared to backpedal from its initial threats of action.
中国军方表示，已对美国飞机的飞行路线予以监视。对于一开始发出的行动威胁，中方的立场似乎有所软化。
In an editorial, Global Times, said Japan, not the United States, was the target of the new zone.
《环球时报》在一篇社论中说，新防空区针对的目标是日本，而非美国。
“If the U.S. does not go too far, we will not target it in safeguarding our air defense zone,” the newspaper wrote. “What we should do at present is to firmly counter provocative actions from Japan.”
该报写道，“只要美方不太过分，就不主动把美军作为巩固空识区的主要斗争目标。我们应集中精力打压日本的气焰，坚决回击其各种挑衅性行为。”
Responding to the situation, the State Department said, “We have urged the Chinese to exercise caution and restraint, and we are consulting with Japan and other affected parties throughout the region.”
美国国务院在回应目前局势时说，“我们已经敦促中方保持谨慎和克制，目前正在和日本及该地区受影响的其余各方进行磋商。”
Analysts have said that China’s declaration of the new zone is meant to whittle away at Japan’s hold on the islands. But the unexpected move is also seen as another attempt by an increasingly assertive China to establish itself as the dominant regional power, displacing the United States.
分析人士表示，中国宣布设立新识别区，意在逐步削弱日本对相关岛屿的控制。不过，这一出人意料的举动也被认为是越来越自信的中国发起的又一次尝试，目的是取代美国，确立自己地区霸主的地位。
China has seemed to be stepping back this week from its original harsh tone, when it said aircraft entering the airspace needed to file flight plans in advance or face the possibility of military action. On Wednesday, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said China would decide on a case-by-case basis how strongly to respond to those who break its rules.
同起初的强硬语调相比，中国本周似乎有所收敛。中国起初表示，进入该空域的航空器必须提前报备飞行计划，否则中方可能对其采取军事行动。周三，中国外交部发言人表示，中国将根据具体情况，对违规者做出相应程度的反应。
In a further clarification of its original stance, the People’s Liberation Army said Thursday that the new air zone was “not a territorial airspace” and did not mean that China would take immediate military action against aircraft that entered the zone.
周四，中国人民解放军进一步澄清了最初的立场，表示新设立的防空识别区“不是领空”，也不意味着中国会对进入该区域的航空器立即采取军事行动。
At a monthly briefing for Chinese reporters, a spokesman, Yang Yujun, said it was “incorrect” to suggest China would shoot down planes in the zone. On Thursday, Japan’s top government spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, said the Chinese had not been notified of the Japanese flights, and reported that China had not scrambled its fighter jets to intercept them.
在面向中国记者举行的每月例行记者会上，发言人杨宇军表示，关于中国会击落进入识别区的飞机的说法是“不正确的”。周四，日本政府首席发言人菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)表示，日本的飞行没有通知中方。他还通报说，中国没有紧急起飞战机拦截日方飞机。
The South Korean government announced that it, too, had flown aircraft through the zone without alerting Beijing. Chinese officials said they had monitored the flight by what the South Koreans described as a surveillance aircraft. Like Japan, South Korea claims sovereignty over some territory in seas beneath the airspace, but Seoul enjoys warmer ties with Beijing than Tokyo does.
韩国政府也宣布本国在未知会中方的情况下派出飞机飞越了识别区。中方官员说，他们监视了韩方的飞行。韩国政府表示，韩国派出的是一架侦察机。和日本一样，韩国也声称对识别区覆盖海域的部分领土拥有主权，不过，韩国与中国的关系好于日本与中国的关系。
During a previously scheduled defense meeting on Thursday, South Korea asked China to change the boundaries of the new zone, according to the South Korean Yonhap news agency. But China rejected the request, said a spokesman for South Korea’s Defense Ministry, Kim Min-seok, according to the Yonhap report.
韩国联合通讯社(Yonhap)报道称，周四，在之前就安排好的一次防务会议上，韩国要求中国调整新识别区的界线。不过，韩联社报道称，国防部发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)说中国拒绝了这一请求。