It’s a familiar playbook here in China — a wet-behind-the-ears scion of a wealthy family goes to America to study, buys a pricey car, breaks the law.
在中国这个地方，人们都很熟悉这样的剧本——富裕家庭乳臭未干的少年去美国学习，买了豪车，然后犯了法。
Some details of what happened last week in a high-speed car chase in Southern California involving the teenage driver of a white BMW, half a dozen pursuing police vehicles and a dozen officers are still emerging — such as the young man’s exact identity and that of his parents — but the incident is provoking outrage at home, where it is taken as evidence of the arrogance of China’s rich, as well as the failure of the country’s education system to produce decent citizens.
上周，南加州发生了一起高速追车事件，事件涉及一辆白色宝马(BMW)的年轻驾驶员，以及追逐这辆宝马的6辆警车和12名警察。此事的部分细节——比如这个年轻人及其父母的具体身份——尚未浮出水面，然而，此事已经在中国国内引发了愤怒。中国民众认为此事证明了中国富人的骄横，还证明了中国教育制度的失败，因为它未能培养出行为得体的公民。
“The wild driving of the 18-year-old ‘hero of Hefei,’ Zhou Yuan, in Los Angeles late last week, has really honored us here in Hefei,” wrote a commenter, Grassroots Hefei, sarcastically, on his Sina Weibo microblog account (which promises readers they’ll find the “real, ordinary people’s Hefei” there, not state propaganda). According to Chinese news reports, Mr. Zhou is from the city of Hefei, in Anhui Province.
“上周末，一个叫‘周远’的18岁合肥侠在美国洛杉矶疯狂飙车真是给咱大合肥争光啊，”评论人士草根合肥在新浪微博账户上讽刺地写道（他的账户承诺让读者看到“合肥老百姓的真实生活”，杜绝国家宣传）。中文新闻报道称，周远（音译）来自安徽省合肥市。
“But the ‘American boss’ is not lightly provoked,” wrote Grassroots Hefei, referring to the authorities in the United States. “People say he faces up to three years in jail. Can your father smooth this one over?”
“但是美国佬也不是好惹的，”草根合肥写道，“据说最高或被判3年刑罚伢哎，这事你爹能在美国摆平么？”这里的美国佬指的是美国政府。
Saying it was a “40-minute car chase of up to 200 kilometers an hour” by an 18-year-old Chinese student driving a BMW 750i (news reports in the United States quoted the California Highway Patrol as saying it was a 45-minute chase that reached speeds of 122 miles per hour), another commenter, Shining World, wrote on Sina Weibo that the driver’s first words after being wrestled to the ground and handcuffed by police officers was: “Aren’t the police violating my human rights by arresting me like this?”
另一名评论人士修炼的世界在新浪微博上称，一名18岁的中国学生驾驶一辆宝马750i，“最高时速超过200KM”，引发了一场“40分钟追车事件”（美国新闻报道援引加利福尼亚州公路巡逻队[California Highway Patrol]的话称，追车事件持续了45分钟，最高时速达到了122英里[约合196公里]）。修炼的世界还称，被摁倒在地并被戴上手铐后，驾车者说的第一句话是：“警察这样抓我是否违反我的人权？”
The action kicked off Thursday night when a BMW sped past a patrol vehicle on the northbound Interstate 5 freeway. The car then moved onto the westbound Interstate 10 freeway, “weaving in and out of traffic, using the right shoulder to pass vehicles and driving at speeds up to 122 mph,” according to a news release from the California Highway Patrol, quoted by the local news media.
上周四，在北行方向的5号洲际公路(Interstate 5 )上，一辆宝马飞速掠过一辆巡逻车，追车事件随即拉开序幕。加州媒体援引加利福尼亚州公路巡逻队的新闻通稿称，这辆宝马后来开进了西行方向的10号洲际公路(Interstate 10)，“在车流中穿进穿出，使用右侧路肩超车，车速高达每小时122英里”。
Such behavior is common on Chinese highways, where cars also regularly shift into reverse after missing exits.
这种行为在中国的高速公路上相当普遍，那里的车辆还常常在错过出口后倒车逆行。
The police finally stopped the BMW on the Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu by deliberately bumping its back fender. Mr. Zhou — a student at the University of California, Irvine, near Los Angeles — was booked on suspicion of felony evading a police officer and reckless driving, patrol officials said, according to CBSLA.com. Released on bail of $75,000, he faces a jail sentence of 16 months to three years, according to Chinese news reports. Two passengers in the car — identified by the local news media as Zhou Wangshuang and Chen Lu, both fellow students — were not arrested.
最终，通过故意撞击宝马车的后保险杠，警方在马里布的太平洋海岸公路截停了这辆车。据CBSLA.com报道，巡警说，洛杉矶附近加利福尼亚大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)的学生周远因涉嫌拒捕和鲁莽驾驶的重罪而被警方记录在案。据中国新闻媒体报道，周远已经以7.5万美元（约合45万元人民币）取保获释，但面临16个月到三年的监禁判决。车上的两名乘客没有被捕。据当地新闻媒体报道，两名乘客分别是周望双（音译）和陈璐（音译），都是周远的同学。
It all touches a raw nerve in China, where envy at the wealth and impunity enjoyed by a privileged few runs high — and a perception well-connected parents protect their marauding offspring. In the People’s Daily Overseas Edition on Monday, the columnist Shan Shibing severely criticized the young man.
在中国，此事彻底触到了大众的痛处，因为人们本来就非常嫉恨少数特权人士享有的财富和豁免权，并对人脉深厚的家长保护作恶子女的现象感受强烈。在周一出版的《人民日报》海外版上，专栏作者单士兵严厉谴责了这名年轻人。
“The illegal acts of the Chinese overseas student Zhou Yuan reveal a problem of education, that he didn’t get the moral education he should have gotten, that he lacks common sense,” wrote Mr. Shan.
他写道，“中国留学生周远在美国违法，说到底还是教育问题，还是因为他没有得到过应有的人格教育，缺乏公共意识。”
“Currently, most high school education in China is focused on examinations, not on producing citizens,” he wrote. “It’s very hard to instill in these students a sense of integrity and common sense, to develop respect for public law and order.”
他写道，“目前，国内的中学大多数还是应试教育，而不是公民教育。很难在这些学生身上植入独立人格与公共意识，让他们对公共秩序和法律精神有所敬畏。”
“One could say that Zhou Yuan lacks a basic ability to judge himself and his limits, that he lacks a sense of right and wrong.”
“可以说，周远根本就没有判断自身行为的起码底线，没有基本的是非观。”
Some American news outlets quoted Mr. Zhou as saying he was afraid of the California Highway Patrol and did not understand why he was being chased. On Sunday, The Beijing News ran a short primer advising Chinese drivers in the United States on what to do if they’re pulled over by the police. Stop, and “put both your hands on the steering wheel,” it said. Do what the officers tell you.
一些美国新闻媒体援引周远的话报道称，当时他被加利福尼亚州公路巡逻队吓坏了，也不明白自己为什么会被警察追逐。周日，新京报刊登了一篇简短的入门介绍，意在帮助在美中国司机应对被警察迫停路边的情况。文章说，你应该停车，然后“把双手放在方向盘上”。照警察说的去做。
One reason some Chinese drivers might be in need of such instruction is because the authorities in China rarely intervene in cases of speeding or hazardous driving, despite the huge police force.
一些中国司机可能会需要此类指导，原因之一在于，中国当局虽然拥有庞大的警力，但却很少出手干预超速或危险驾驶行为。