HONG KONG — The Malaysian government announced late Monday night that a Chinese vessel would survey the ocean floor at the last suspected location of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
香港——周一晚间，马来西亚政府宣布，一艘中国船只将在马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)370航班疑似消失的海域测绘海床。
Hydrographic experts from Malaysia, China and Australia met over the weekend in Canberra, the capital of Australia, and agreed that extensive mapping of the sea floor would be done by a Chinese Navy vessel, said Defense Minister Hishammuddin Hussein, who is also Malaysia’s acting transport minister. Accurate mapping could help in the future deployment of further deep-sea submersibles to the area to look for the vanished jet.
马来西亚国防部长、代理交通部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)表示，来自马来西亚、中国和澳大利亚的海图绘制专家上周末在澳大利亚首都堪培拉举行了会谈，同意由中国海军舰船开展广泛的深海测绘工作。精确的测绘有助于未来进一步部署深海潜水器，在该海域寻找消失的飞机。
The suspected location lies 550 miles west-northwest of Exmouth, a town on the northwestern corner of Australia. It is well within international waters.
370航班可能在埃克斯茅斯西北偏西550英里（约合885公里）处消失，那里完全处于国际水域。埃克斯茅斯是澳大利亚西北角的一个城镇。
Australia has nonetheless led the search until now, under authority delegated to it by Malaysia as the lead government in the search for the missing Boeing 777-200, which disappeared on March 8. The United States has made a point of sending a deep-sea submersible and other gear to be operated from the deck of an Australian ship.
截至目前为止，澳大利亚根据马来西亚方面的授权牵头开展搜索行动，因为马来西亚政府是搜索行动中的主导国。这架波音777-200客机于3月8日失联。美国特地派出了一艘深海潜水器，以及其他可以在澳大利亚船舰甲板上操作的装置。
China has been seeking a larger role in the investigation. Its citizens made up two-thirds of the 227 passengers, while the 12-person crew was entirely Malaysian.
中国一直寻求在调查行动中发挥更大作用。在227名乘客中，中国人占三分之二，12名机组人员则全部是马来西亚人。
The extreme depth of the waters where the plane disappeared, exceeding 15,000 feet in places, has been blamed by searchers for making the aircraft exceptionally hard to find. So has the hilly sea floor rived by deep gullies and buried in silt, resulting in calls by the searchers for better maps of the sort that the Chinese vessel, the Zhu Kezhen, is now supposed to produce.
飞机消失的海域非常深，有的地方深度超过了1.5万英尺（约合4600米），搜索人员称，这种深度使他们很难找到飞机。丘陵般的海底到处是深谷沟壑，布满淤泥，导致搜索人员要求获得更好的海图。现在，中国的“竺可桢号”将会进行绘图。
Mr. Hussein also said that Malaysia’s Department of Civil Aviation would talk with Inmarsat, the global satellite communications company, about a possible release of raw data transmitted from the aircraft to a satellite over the Indian Ocean. Technical details of how that data reached the satellite were used to calculate the suspected location, but many of those details have not been released.
侯赛因还表示，马来西亚民航局(Malaysian Department of Civil Aviation)将会与全球卫星通讯公司Inmarsat谈论公布飞机在印度洋上空向卫星传送的原始数据的可能性。相关部门利用卫星数据传送过程的技术细节推算了飞机的位置，但很多细节并未得到公布。
Mr. Hussein said that the next of kin of some passengers had sought the raw data. But the information might also be of use to intelligence services in China and elsewhere that might want to use such data to track aircraft movements.
侯赛因表示，一些乘客的亲属要求获得原始数据。但这些信息可能也会对中国及其他国家有用，因为它们的情报机构可能希望利用此类数据追踪飞机的移动轨迹。