BEIJING — China plans to set a cap on coal consumption in 2020, an important step for the country in trying to achieve a recently announced goal of having carbon dioxide emissions peak by around 2030.
北京——中国计划为2020年煤炭消费总量设定上限。要实现最近宣布的二氧化碳排放到2030年达到峰值的目标，限制煤炭消费的举措是一个重要的步骤。
The State Council, China’s cabinet, released details of an energy strategy late Wednesday that includes capping coal consumption at 4.2 billion tons in 2020 and having coal be no more than 62 percent of the primary energy mix by that year.
周三晚些时候，中国国务院公布了一项能源战略的细节，其中包括到2020年，将煤炭消费总量控制在42亿吨，将煤炭消费占一次性能源消费的比重控制在62%以内。
Worldwide, coal burning for industrial use is the largest source of carbon dioxide emissions, which are the biggest catalyst of global climate change.
在世界范围内，工业燃煤是二氧化碳排放的最大来源，而二氧化碳排放则是全球变暖最主要的催化剂。
In theory, coal consumption might increase beyond 2020, but some researchers say economic trends show the rate of growth in coal use slowing in coming years and peaking about 2020. That means the State Council’s timeline is consistent with the findings of those researchers. The numbers announced Wednesday might be further formalized in China’s next five-year plan, whose details will be released around March.
理论上，煤炭消费量在2020年以后可能仍会增长，但一些研究人员表示，经济走势说明，煤炭消耗量的增长速度未来几年会放缓，在2020年左右达到峰值。这意味着中国国务院设定的时间表与这些研究人员的研究结果是一致的。周三公布的数字，可能会在将于3月左右发布的下一个五年计划中，得到进一步正式确定。
Last week, President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China announced a joint pledge to cut or limit carbon dioxide emissions from his country.
上周，奥巴马总统与中国国家主席习近平共同承诺削减或限制各自国家二氧化碳的排放。
China said it would reach an emissions peak “around 2030” and energy from sources other than fossil fuels would make up 20 percent of the total mix by that year. That announcement was praised by environmental advocates as a significant political move by the two nations.
中国表示该国碳排放将在“2030年左右”达到峰值，届时除化石燃料之外的能源，将在总能源消耗量中占20%。环保倡导人士对此表示赞赏，称这是两国做出的重大政治行动。
Environmental advocates on Thursday welcomed the State Council’s announcement this week. But, as with the “around 2030” pledge on peak emissions, they said China could make a greater effort — for example, China could cap coal consumption even earlier or at a lower level.
周四，环保倡导人士对国务院本周宣布的消息表示欢迎。但正如中国做出的在“2030年左右”达到排放峰值的承诺一样，他们表示中国可以做出更多努力，例如中国可以提早限制煤炭消费量增长，或将其控制在较低水平。
“We think it’s definitely a positive sign, in line with what they’ve said they’re going to do,” said Alvin Lin, China climate and energy policy director in the Beijing office of the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group based in New York.
自然资源保护协会(Natural Resources Defense Council)北京办公室的中国项目气候与能源政策主任林明彻(Alvin Lin)表示，“我们认为这显然是一个积极的信号，符合他们的承诺。”该倡导组织总部位于纽约。
But “we’d like to see it a bit lower than that,” he said, “if you’re trying to meet the air pollution and air quality targets that they have set, and if you consider all the other environmental and health impacts of coal and the greenhouse gas emissions of coal.”
但是他说，“如果要达到他们设定的空气污染和空气质量目标，还要把煤炭及煤炭产生的温室气体所造成的其他环境和健康影响都考虑进去的话，我们希望数字能设置得更低。”
Some Chinese officials began tackling the problem of coal burning with vigor in 2013. In September 2013, the government announced that provinces in populous parts of eastern China would try to cut coal consumption.
2013年，有些中国官员开始积极应对煤炭燃烧所带来的问题。2013年9月，政府宣布，中国东部人口密集地区的省份将努力降低煤炭消耗量。
Analysts for Greenpeace East Asia said the amount of coal consumed in the first nine months of 2014 might actually have dropped by 1 to 2 percent compared with the same period last year, based on data from a national coal industry association.
绿色和平东亚分部(Greenpeace East Asia)的分析师称，根据一个全国性煤炭行业协会提供的数据，2014年前9个月的煤炭消耗量可能同比下降了1%至2%。
Last year, China consumed 3.61 billion tons of coal, and coal made up 66 percent of the primary energy mix. Li Shuo, a researcher at Greenpeace East Asia, said those figures indicate that China’s goals for 2020 should be more ambitious.
去年，中国消耗了36.1亿吨煤炭，而且煤炭在一次能源消耗中所占比例为66%。绿色和平东亚分部的研究员李硕称，这些数据表明，中国为2020年设定的目标应该更有雄心。
"What they laid out is a reference point, and then they will work from there to squeeze out more stuff,” he said.
他说，“他们设定的只是一个参考值，他们会以此为基准，努力达成更大的目标。”