BEIJING — China's leaders are winding down a strategy of trying to push up slumping stock prices by spending billions of dollars to buy shares.
北京——中国领导层正在放缓之前采取的一项策略，即通过花费上万亿的资金购买股票来试图刺激暴跌中的股市上扬。
After the Chinese market benchmark soared to a peak on June 12 and then reversed course and plunged 30 percent, Beijing reached back to the era of central planning and intervened directly. Big shareholders were barred from selling and state-owned brokerages promised to buy. State banks lent billions of dollars to a government finance company to support prices.
中国股指在今年6月12日飙升到最高点，然后逆转并下挫30%。那之后，北京又回到了中央计划的年代，直接出手干预。大股东被禁止出售持有的股票，国有券商承诺买入。国有银行还给政府的一家金融公司提供了上万亿的贷款用来救市。
That prompted criticism that Beijing was disrupting the market and might be delaying changes in financial policy needed to support China's slowing economy.
这些举措引发了外界的批评，北京被指是在扰乱市场秩序，而且有可能会妨碍提振放缓的经济所需的金融政策改革。
Now, with no formal announcement, there has been no large-scale buying by the China Securities Finance Corp. despite four days of precipitous declines that wiped 22 percent off the Shanghai Composite Index.
不过，虽然没有正式的消息，但未见中国证券金融股份有限公司（简称证金公司）进行任何大规模的购买行为，尽管过去四天里上证综合指数陡降22%。
"The market self-adjustment is a good thing," said JP Morgan economist Haibin Zhu. "The positive sign is the 'national team' no longer intervenes and keeps buying, which was causing market distortion."
“市场自我调节是件好事，”摩根大通(JP Morgan)经济师朱海斌说道。“‘国家队’不再进行干预、持续购买股票，而之前这类行为导致了市场扭曲。这是个积极的信号。”
So what other options do Chinese authorities have to calm markets?
那么，为安抚市场，中国当局还有哪些其他选择？
After weeks of turmoil, the best tactic might be to do nothing, according to financial analysts.
一些金融分析师表示，经过几周的市场动荡之后，目前最好的策略可能是什么也不做。
Inaction "would likely be viewed favorably at this stage," said Linda Yueh, an economist at the London Business School. "Previous interventions have heightened rather than subdued the volatility."
“在现阶段”，不作为“有可能被看做是合适的举措，”伦敦商学院(London Business School)的经济学者岳林达(Linda Yueh)表示，“之前的干预非但没有缓和，反倒加重了市场的震荡。”
The previously little known CSFC, the pillar of the government's intervention, never disclosed what and when it bought or how much it spent. But Chinese media say state-owned banks have lent the company 1.5 trillion yuan ($240 billion).
以前鲜为人知的证金公司是政府进行市场干预的主要机构。它不曾披露过在何时购买什么股票，或花费了多少资金。不过中国媒体报道，多家国有银行借给该公司1.5万亿元人民币（约合2400亿美元）。
Its last large-scale action might have occurred last Wednesday, when the Shanghai index fell 5 percent but reversed course in the last minutes of trading to close up 1.2 percent. Analysts said that probably was the work of the CSFC and its multibillion-dollar war chest.
证金公司上一次采取大规模买入行动有可能是在上周三。当天上证指数先是下跌5%，但在尾盘又迅速反弹，以1.2%的升幅收盘。分析人士表示，这很可能正是由证金公司及其上万亿的可调配资金实现的。
Already, the company said two weeks ago it would no longer intervene day to day as the government tried to restore normal market functions.
证金公司在两周前已经表示，在政府试图恢复正常市场机制之际，不会再对日常交易进行干预。
The consensus among Chinese leaders "appears to be that this was costing the government too much money," Angus Nicholson of IG Markets said in a report.
IG Markets的分析师安格斯·尼科尔森(Angus Nicholson)在报告中表示，中国领导层的共识“似乎是，这样的措施在耗费政府太多资金。”
"Now I think they are trying to just slow down the fall," said Jackson Wong, associate director at United Simsen Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“现在我认为，他们在尝试只是去减慢股市下跌的速度，”香港天行联合证券有限公司(United Simsen Securities Ltd)联席董事黄志阳(Jackson Wong)说道。
The Shanghai market soared more than 150 percent starting late last year after state media said shares were inexpensive. That led investors to believe Beijing would step in to prop up prices if necessary.
国有媒体表示股价偏低之后，上海股指去年底以来飙升了逾150%。这让很多投资者相信，北京会在必要的时候出手抬高股价。
The bubble burst after an unrelated change in banking rules in early June made investors think Beijing's support might be weakening.
今年6月初，一项不相关的银行新规推出，使得投资者认为北京对市场的支持有可能在减弱，股市泡沫随之破灭。
The massive intervention might have interfered with decisions about interest rate and credit policy changes needed to support the slowing economy, said Zhu.
朱海斌表示，大规模的市场干预行为有可能会妨碍政府在利率和信贷政策调整方面的决策，而这些改革是提振正在放缓的中国经济所需要的。
"It's difficult to manage all their objectives at the same time," he said. "I would say the stock market decline is the least important among all of them."
“同时实现他们的所有目标比较困难，”他表示。“可以说，在他们面临的所有问题中，股市下跌是最不重要的。”
The vast sums of money channeled into the share-buying operation also might have diverted credit from commercial borrowers, possibly eroding potential economic growth.
用来买入股票救市的巨额资金也有可能减少了商业借贷额度，或许会侵蚀潜在的经济增长。
One way to reassure investors, analysts said, would be to show support for the economy by cutting interest rates or freeing up money for lending by reducing the level of reserves banks are required to hold.
分析人士表示，为了让投资者安心，政府可以向外界显示对经济的支持，途径是降低利率，或通过降低银行存款准备金率来增加可供借出的资金。
The central bank took both steps late Tuesday, announcing China's fifth interest rate cut in nine months and reducing bank reserve levels.
周二傍晚，央行同时采取了上述两种措施，宣布降息——九个月内的第五次——并降低银行存款准备金率。
The change probably "was triggered by concerns about negative sentiment following the equity rout," said Mark Williams of Capital Economics in a report.
之所有这样的变化，很可能“是源于对股市暴跌之后出现的负面情绪的担忧，”凯投宏观(Capital Economics)的马克·威廉姆斯(Mark Williams)在报告中写道。
And Beijing still has plenty of cash if it wants to buy more shares, said Guo Tianyong, a finance specialist at the Central University of Finance and Economics. But he noted that when global stock markets fell Monday there was no talk of intervention by other governments.
中央财经大学的金融专家郭田勇表示，如果想买入更多股票，北京仍然有大把现金可用。但他也指出，周一全球股市大跌的时候，并没有听说其他国家的政府进行干预。
"We should let the market play its role," said Guo. "It's unnecessary for the government to intervene."
“我们应该让市场自己发挥作用，”郭田勇说道。“政府没有必要干预。”