Last Thanksgiving, Kim Lee came down the stairs in her apartment in Beijing to see her former husband, Li Yang, standing in the living room.
去年感恩节，在自家的北京公寓里，李金(Kim Lee)走下楼，看见前夫李阳站在客厅里。
“I screamed,” she said.
“我尖叫起来，”她说。
The couple had divorced nine months earlier in a blaze of publicity, after Mr. Li, the celebrity founder of Crazy English, a language school they ran together, admitted to physically abusing his American wife. Chinese women rarely publicize violence at the hands of their partners, but Ms. Lee posted images of her injuries online. Her forthrightness won her praise from women’s advocates as well as many ordinary Chinese, though some reacted with fury at how she lifted the lid on a sensitive topic.
这对夫妇已于此前九个月在媒体的广泛关注下离婚。“疯狂英语”的知名创始人李阳承认对美国妻子实施了家暴。他们夫妻二人曾共同经营语言学校。中国女性很少把自己伴侣的家暴行为公之于众，然而，李金把她受伤的照片放到了网上。她的率直赢得了女性权益倡导者及许多普通中国民众的赞赏，不过，也有部分人因为她揭开敏感话题的盖子而愤怒。
Ms. Lee’s experiences since then, however, have bolstered activists’ arguments that China is in urgent need of a national law on domestic violence.
虽说如此，从那时起，李金的经历还是强化了维权人士的观点，即中国迫切需要一部关于家庭暴力的全国性法律。
In interviews, Ms. Lee, a teacher, said that after they separated in 2011, Mr. Li more than once threatened her in text messages. “For our kids, you’d better pay attention to your safety!!!” read one message, she said. Another: “You need me to beat you again to make you better, you greedy, American psycho.”
身为教师的李金在采访中说，自她和李阳在2011年分居后，李阳曾不止一次地发短信威胁她。她说，有一条信息写道，“为了我们的孩子，你最好关心关心自己的安全！！！”另一条写道：“你需要我再揍你一顿才能好过吧，你这个贪婪的美国变态。”
Mr. Li was “very busy” and would not respond to a detailed question list or otherwise comment, said his assistant, Anson Ke.
对此，李阳的助理小柯(Anson Ke)说，李阳“很忙”，不会回应详细的问题单，也不予置评。
So on her divorce, Ms. Lee applied for, and was granted, a protection order, the first reported in Beijing. The court order was for only three months and not detailed, simply warning Mr. Li that he would be arrested if he resorted to violence against her again.
于是，李金在离婚期间申请了人身安全保护令，并获得了批准。这是报道出来的北京首例离婚案法院保护令。它仅有三个月有效期，内容粗略，只是简单地警告，如果李阳再次对李金动手施暴，他就会被逮捕。
“But it did in fact protect me,” Ms. Lee said in an interview. Once he threatened to beat her to death, she reminded him that he could go to jail and he backed off, she said.
李金在采访中说，“不过它确实保护了我。”她说，有一次李阳威胁说要打死她，她提醒李阳，他可能会进监狱，李阳退却了。
“What it does is take out that painful step of having to get evidence” of an attack, which includes getting a hospital report and persuading the police to file a report, something difficult to do. “I just report the violence, and he’s dealt with,” she said.
“法院的做法是把必须获得”施暴“证据的痛苦步骤给去掉了”，其中包括获得医疗报告和劝说警方出具报告，后一步相当困难。“我只用把威胁上报，他就被处理了，”她说。
Last May, however, the order expired. And since then, despite multiple applications to the court, she has been unable to secure another.
然而，去年5月，保护令到期了。自那之后，虽然李金多次向法院提出申请，却一直没能获得新的保护令。
Activists say her situation illustrates why laws are needed that would define domestic violence, nixing the common argument that it is a “private matter,” raising the problem in the public eye, giving courts, the police, hospitals and other social organizations a clear legal mandate to assist victims, and standardizing important measures like protection orders. Some, issued elsewhere in the country, have ordered the perpetrator to keep a distance from the victim, but the approach is piecemeal.
维权人士认为，她的情况说明了，为什么有必要制订一部能界定家庭暴力的法律，推翻家暴是一件“私事”的普遍观点，把问题摆在公众眼前，为法院、警方、医院和其他社会组织援助受害者提供清晰的法令，在保护令等重要措施上实施标准化。中国某些地区颁布的条例已勒令犯罪者远离受害人，不过，它们只是个案而已。
Currently, the Marriage Law and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of Women outlaw domestic violence, but they are vague, activists say. “There are too many systemic problems, too many loopholes. It’s just too easy to do it,” said Feng Yuan, a leading feminist and a founder of the Anti-Domestic Violence Network, which has campaigned for a comprehensive law for 15 years.
目前，《婚姻法》和《妇女权益保障法》都把家庭暴力界定为非法行为，不过维权人士说，这两部法律给出的定义模糊不清。知名女性主义者冯媛说，“有太多的系统性问题，太多的漏洞。家暴太容易犯了。”冯媛是反对家庭暴力网络的创始人。该组织为制订一部全面的反家暴法已经奔走了15年。
Figures of the scale of the problem vary. Last year, Tan Lin, an official at the All-China Women’s Federation, said that 25 percent of women experienced violence in their marriage. But a study last year by Partners for Prevention, a United Nations program, found that 52 percent of about 1,000 Chinese men told researchers that they had been violent toward a woman.
家暴问题严重程度方面的数据存在一定的差异。去年，中华全国妇女联合会官员谭琳说，有25%的女性在婚姻中遭遇过家暴。然而，联合国预防伙伴项目(Partners for Prevention)去年进行的一项研究发现，在大约1000名中国男性中，有52%的人对调研人员承认，他们曾对女性施暴。
And protection orders, considered a crucial method of combating domestic violence worldwide, are still experimental in China. Courts try to keep them quiet, concerned that without the authority of a law and an established system of practical enforcement, they may fail, and the court may lose face, feminists say. Only recently did activists discover that another order was issued in Beijing several months before Ms. Lee’s.
此外，保护令在中国依然处于试验阶段，尽管它在全球范围内被认为是对抗家暴的关键手段。女性主义者说，法院试图在保护令的事情上保持低调，担心没有法律的授权和切实可行的成熟执法机制，也许会导致失败，从而让法院丢脸。直到最近，维权人士才发现，在李金的保护令被下达几个月之前，北京已颁布过一条保护令。
“Ms. Lee’s problems show that China needs to formalize protection orders,” said Ms. Feng. Because when it comes to violent partners issuing threats, “there is no law that says that judges must solve this problem.”
冯媛说，“李金的问题表明，中国需要正式确立保护令制度。”这是因为，在发出威胁的暴力伴侣方面，“没有法律规定法官必须解决这个问题。”
“The courts are afraid of being overrun by applicants and of being unable to enforce the orders and therefore becoming a mockery, with the police not cooperating,” she said.
“法院害怕会被大批的申请搞得左支右绌，害怕因为警方不合作而执行不力，然后沦为笑柄，”她说。
In 2012, the National People’s Congress took proposals for a law defining and outlawing domestic violence into its legislative program. Every year, there have been a few deputies who try to push it forward. But after 15 years of lobbying, activists like Ms. Feng believe it’s still very low on the government’s agenda.
2012年，全国人民代表大会把一项提案列为立法项目。该提案呼吁制订一部界定家暴并确立家暴违法的法律。每一年，都有少数人大代表试图推动该项目。然而，像冯媛这样的维权人士认为，在经历了15年的游说后，它在政府议程中的排序依然非常靠后。
“A lot of people trivialize the problem, but it’s not a trivial thing,” Ms. Feng said. Many countries, including in Asia, have such a law, making China a laggard. In China, action is “too slow,” she said. “It’s just too, too slow!”
“有一大堆人轻视这个问题，可它不是件微不足道的事，”冯媛说。包括部分亚洲国家在内的许多国家都有类似的法律，这让中国成了落后者。她说，在中国，行动的速度“太慢了。实在是太慢、太慢了。”
This year, feminists are gearing up to lobby again at the congress, which convenes next week.
今年，女性主义者准备在下周召开的人大期间再次努力。
In 2003, the network submitted a draft law. Later, the All-China Women’s Federation, a government body, also submitted one.
2003年，反对家庭暴力网络递交了一份相关草案，而后，政府组织全国妇联也提交了一份草案。
Ms. Feng does not expect a law this year. Maybe next year, if things move fast, she said. And 2015 is the 20th anniversary of the United Nations’ Fourth World Conference on Women, a landmark event held in Beijing that declared: “Women’s rights are human rights.”
冯媛不指望今年能出台反家暴法。她说，如果进展神速，也许明年能行。2015年是在北京举行的标志性盛事——联合国第四届妇女大会——20周年纪念。大会当时宣布：“妇女权利即人权。”
Despite the sense of urgency she and other women’s advocates feel, she says it’s important to get a good law, even if it takes time.
虽然包括她在内的女性权益倡导者普遍有一种紧迫感，但她表示，出台一部好法律相当重要，哪怕需要时间。
“The question now is, How will they draft it? What are their priorities?” Ms. Feng said. Would, for example, protection orders be part of it?
“现在的问题是，他们会怎么起草这部法？他们的取向是什么？”冯媛说。例如，保护令会写入新法吗？
“We don’t have formal lobbyists like in the United States,” Ms. Feng said. She singled out three groups of people to approach: state leaders, heads of departments involved in drafting laws, and researchers and expert advisers.
冯媛说，“我们没有像美国那样的正式说客。”她指出了三个群体作为接近目标，分别是国家领导人、涉及起草法律的部门负责人，以及研究人员和专家顾问。
As a civil society organization, the network lacks access to the first group and only rarely can influence the second, but it can reach the third. The women’s federation has access to the first two; its leader, Shen Yueyue, is also a state leader.
作为一个民间社会组织，反对家庭暴力网络无法接触第一种人，对第二种人的影响也极为有限，但可以接触到第三种人。妇联则可以接触到前两类；妇联主席沈跃跃自己也是一名国家领导人。
It comes down to a question of political will, said Ms. Feng. “I’d say there are just a handful of groups willing to pursue this issue.”
冯媛说，这可以归结为“政治意愿”问题。“我认为只有少数几个群体愿意去为这个问题努力。”
Meanwhile, absent court protection and a law spelling out the crime, Ms. Lee worries. “He entered my home in the middle of the night,” she said. “I felt this was enough to warrant another application, since he obviously keeps threatening, scaring and trying to pressure me.”
与此同时，缺乏法院的保护以及明确规定这项罪行的法律的局面也让李金感到忧心。“他半夜闯入我家，”她说。“我觉得这足以用来再次批准申请了，因为他显然一直在威胁恐吓我，试图向我施加压力。”
Her latest application was turned down on Dec. 23. She says she will keep trying.
去年12月23日，她的最近一次申请被拒绝了。她说自己会继续努力。