Fresh off the plane from Art Basel Hong Kong this week, the Chinese artist Cao Fei was stationed at MoMA PS1, ready to supervise the installation of her first United States museum retrospective. At 37, she seemed too young to warrant an extensive survey. Dressed in a black hoodie and fashionable striped pants, Ms. Cao could have been one of the characters in her early videos, teenagers influenced by hip-hop culture or 20-somethings costumed as Japanese manga characters.
上周，中国艺术家曹斐刚从香港巴塞尔艺术展(Art Basel Hong Kong)飞到纽约，就进驻现代艺术博物馆(MoMA)PS1分馆，协助布置她在美国博物馆的首场回顾展。她才37岁，现在就对她进行全面回顾，似乎太早。曹斐穿着黑色卫衣和时髦的条纹裤，很像她早期视频中的人物——受嘻哈文化影响的青少年或者打扮成日本漫画角色的20多岁青年。
But the artist — often described by the art world as the embodiment of the new China — has been on the scene internationally for nearly 20 years, with featured spots at the Tate Modern in London and the Venice Biennale. She has managed to encapsulate her country’s societal shifts through multimedia works, photographs, films and sculptures. And a stroll through the exhibition, which opens on Saturday, is both a tour and a critique of contemporary China, its rapid urbanization and the impact globalization has had on it.
不过，这位艺术家——她经常被艺术界称为新中国的代表——已登上国际艺术舞台近20年，曾在伦敦的泰特现代美术馆(Tate Modern)和威尼斯双年展(Venice Biennale)上留下鲜明的印迹。她通过多媒体作品、摄影、电影和雕塑描绘自己国家的社会变迁。该展览上周六开幕。参观这场展览既像一场旅行，又像对当代中国快速城市化以及全球化对其影响的评判。
“Cao Fei visualizes the tension that a person of her age has to face in China on a daily level,” said Klaus Biesenbach, director of MoMA PS1, who has worked with her throughout her career and who organized the exhibition, “Cao Fei,” which runs through Aug. 31. “It is important for a New York audience to find out that you can find someone as cutting-edge in Beijing as you can here.”
“曹斐把她这个年龄层的人每天在中国必须面对的压力用视觉化的方式呈现出来，”现代艺术博物馆PS1分馆的馆长克劳斯·比森巴赫(Klaus Biesenbach)说。他在她事业的各个阶段与她合作，组织了这场名为“曹斐”的展览。展览将持续至8月31日。“纽约的观众发现你能在北京找到和在纽约一样先锋的人物，这很重要。”
The story of Ms. Cao contrasts two generations of Chinese artists. Her father, Cao Chong’en, was an accomplished realist sculptor whose statues of leaders from Mao to Deng Xiaoping appear throughout China.
曹斐的故事反映出中国两代艺术家的鲜明对比。她的父亲曹崇恩是一位很有造诣的现实主义雕塑家，在中国各地可以看到他创作的多位领导人的雕像——从毛泽东到邓小平。
Cao Fei (pronounced TSOW fay) was born in 1978 in Guangzhou, a port city northwest of Hong Kong on the Pearl River and the manufacturing center of China. It opened to Western investors far earlier than cities in the north of the country. And she grew up absorbing the various influences that flooded her hometown and focused on creating art that examined China’s economic boom. She gained attention early from prominent European curators before being seen at home, thus bypassing some of the obstacles usually encountered by female artists in China.
曹斐1978年出生于广州。广州是香港西北部珠江上的一个港口城市，是中国的制造业中心，相比中国北方的城市，这里向西方投资者开放要早很久。她在成长过程中，吸收了涌进她故乡的各种势力，着重创作审视中国经济发展的艺术作品。她在中国出名之前，先引起了欧洲著名策展人的注意，所以避开了中国女艺术家经常遇到的一些障碍。
“She was really fresh and really young, but you could feel her potential to be an incredibly unique artist in that she approached the youth culture in a very contemporary way,” said Hou Hanru, artistic director of Maxxi, National Museum of the 21st Century Arts, in Rome, who met Ms. Cao when she was still a 21-year-old student at the Guangzhou Art Academy. Struck by her ability to both reflect and interpret a China in flux, he requested her first video, “Imbalance 257,” for an exhibition in Spain.
“她非常有活力，非常年轻，但你能感到她具有成为非常独特的艺术家的潜力，因为她以非常当代的方式描绘青年文化，”罗马21世纪国家艺术博物馆(Maxxi)的艺术总监侯瀚如说。曹斐21岁时在广州美术学院就读时，侯瀚如就认识她了。侯对曹反映和阐释不断变化的中国的能力印象深刻，要求她为西班牙的一场展览拍摄了她的第一支短片《失调257》。
Named for part of her address while living in the dormitory in Guangzhou, “Imbalance 257” (1999) loosely tells the story of a group of Chinese students confused about what the future holds after art school.
1999年的《失调257》以曹在广州宿舍地址的一部分命名，松散地讲述了一群中国学生的故事，他们正困惑着从艺术学校毕业后的前程。
“When I got the phone call from him, asking for my C.V., I was so excited,” Ms. Cao recalled, speaking English with the help of an interpreter, this week at the museum. “It was the first time I received an international call. I had no Internet, I had no email, I did not speak English and I didn’t have a résumé. I had to ask my classmates for help with translation.”
“他打电话向我要简历时，我很兴奋，”上周，曹斐于现代艺术博物馆在翻译的帮助下用英语回忆说，“那是我第一次接到国际长途电话。当时我不能上网，没有电子邮件，不会说英语，没有简历。我必须请同学帮忙翻译。”
Some curators were surprised to find an accomplished work from such a young artist. But her father had used video to document his works and passed on his used cameras to his two daughters, who amused themselves by making home movies. By the time the soon-to-be artist was 14, her older sister, Cao Dan, now the executive publisher of Leap Magazine and the Art Newspaper’s Chinese edition, was working in advertising and often hired her younger sister to perform in MTV-like commercials.
有些策展人很惊讶能有这样年轻的艺术家创造出如此有造诣的作品。不过，她父亲就曾用视频记录自己的作品，并把旧相机传给两个女儿，她们经常拍摄家庭录像来取乐。这位未来的艺术家14岁时，她的姐姐曹丹在广告业工作，经常雇她出演类似音乐电视的广告片。曹丹现在是《Leap Magazine》和《Art Newspaper》中国版的执行出版人。
“Many people comment on the difference between me and my father, but I’d rather talk about the similarities,” said Ms. Cao, who made a documentary about him, presented at the Moscow Biennial in 2005. If Mr. Cao (who now splits his time between Canada and China) had survived by capturing crucial moments of the Cultural Revolution, Ms. Cao marks turning points for young people.
“很多人谈论我和父亲的不同，但我更想谈论我们的相似之处，”曹斐说。她拍摄过一部关于父亲的纪录片，在2005年的莫斯科双年展上放映。如果说曹崇恩（现在在加拿大和中国两地工作）立足于捕捉文化大革命的重要时刻，那么曹斐则记录了年轻一代的很多转折点。
From 2005 to 2006, she worked on “Whose Utopia?,” a film created at the Osram light bulb factory in Foshan, in the Pearl River Delta, as part of a project run by the Siemens Art Program from 2000 to 2006; the program is part of that global industrial company’s cultural outreach. She found 20 workers to act out their fantasies for her camera in ways that are alternately funny and very sad.
2005年至2006年，她在珠江三角洲的欧司朗佛山照明公司拍摄了电影《谁的乌托邦？》(Whose Utopia?)。这是2000年至2006年西门子艺术项目(Siemens Art Program)的一部分，该项目是全球工业企业文化拓展的一部分。她找到20名工人在镜头前演出自己的梦想，有的很有趣，有的很悲哀。
A year later, she entered a true fantasy world via Second Life, an Internet site that lets participants choose avatars and interact with one another. As China Tracy, Ms. Cao spent eight to 10 hours a day on her computer, even developing an ill-fated romance, captured in her film “i.Mirror.” She went on to create her signature work, the virtual “RMB City” (2007), in which the Pearl TV Tower in Shanghai abuts the Forbidden City and statues of Mao. Eventually, the Swiss collector Uli Sigg acquired Ms. Cao’s project, which continues to evolve, and later donated it to the M+ Museum in Hong Kong.
一年后，她在游戏网站第二人生(Second Life)中进入一个真正的幻想世界。该网站允许参与者选择虚拟身份，并与其他参与者互动。曹斐在游戏中的虚拟身份是“中国翠西”(China Tracy)，她每天玩8至10个小时，甚至发展出一段不幸的恋情，这些都拍入了她的电影《我·镜》。之后，她创作了自己的标志性作品——虚拟的“人民城寨”(2007)，在里面，上海的东方明珠电视塔与故宫和毛泽东像毗邻。后来，瑞士收藏家乌利·西格(Uli Sigg)买下了曹斐的这件作品，并继续发展，最后捐给了香港的 M+博物馆。
By then, Ms. Cao had already shown in dozens of biennials, succeeding as few female Chinese artists have, by working outside the social network in China, which Mr. Biesenbach described as a “very male-dominated group.”
那时，曹斐已经在很多双年展上展出过，通过在中国的社会关系网（比森巴赫说中国的社会关系网“几乎完全由男性主导”）之外进行创作而取得成功，这在中国女艺术家中极为罕见。
She moved to Beijing with her husband, the Singaporean artist Lim Tzay Chuen, after their two children, who are now 7 and 4, were born. She also took time off from art-making for child rearing, but returned to work in 2013 with “Haze and Fog,” a zombie apocalypse film set in the vast housing projects of present-day Beijing, with its pollution and crowds. The next year, she created “La Town,” a stop-action film, using miniature figurines and architectural models, that depicts a society on the verge of destruction.
她和丈夫、新加坡艺术家林载春在两个孩子（现在分别7岁和4岁）出生后搬到北京。她也从艺术创作中抽出时间照顾孩子，不过2013年，她携电影《霾》回归。这部僵尸末日电影以当今北京的大量住房项目为背景，表现了北京的污染和拥挤。第二年，她创作了《La Town》，这是一部定格电影，使用微型雕像和建筑模型描绘一个即将毁灭的社会。
“I do not see the impact of globalization in black-and-white terms,” Ms. Cao said. “I more observe from different angles.” But she is not disengaged from politics or social issues, as is the case with many Chinese artists her age.
“在我看来，全球化的影响不是非黑即白的，”曹斐说，“我更多地是从不同的角度观察它。”但是，和她那一代的很多中国艺术家一样，她关心政治或社会问题。
She still has not had a museum show in China, though negotiations are underway to bring the MoMA PS1 show there.
她还没有在中国的博物馆办过展览，不过正在协商把现代艺术博物馆的展览搬到中国。
“I am quite independent and not really involved in the art circle in Beijing,” Ms. Cao said, adding, “When they introduce me there, they sometimes say, ‘She is the most important female artist in China’ — not artist, female artist.”
“我非常独立，没有真的进入北京的艺术圈，”曹斐说。她还说：“他们在那里介绍我时，有时会说，‘她是中国最重要的女艺术家’——不是艺术家，而是女艺术家。”