The State Council, China’s cabinet, released details on Monday of a plan for Chinese soccer that calls for cleaning up the administration of the sport and increasing the number of young players. It also recommended that the country compete to host a men’s World Cup tournament.
中国国务院周一公布了足球改革方案的细节，呼吁调整足球管理体制，增加年轻球员数量。方案还建议中国申办世界杯男子足球赛。
China has bolstered its performance in a wide range of sports at the international level, and it won more gold medals than any other country at the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. But the performance of its men’s national soccer team has never lived up to the expectations of Chinese fans.
中国运动员已在大范围的国际比赛中表现优越，在2008年北京举办的奥运会上，中国赢得的金牌数比世界上任何国家都多。但中国男子足球队的表现从未达到中国球迷的期望。
President Xi Jinping of China, himself a soccer fan, presided over a meeting last month of a group charged with proposing overhauls to how soccer is managed in the country. But success is far from certain.
中国国家主席习近平本人是个足球迷，上个月他主持了一次会议，与会者的任务是为如何改革国内足球管理体制提出建议。但改革是否会成功还远未确定。
The country’s national men’s team is ranked 83rd in the world, just behind Guatemala and Honduras. The women’s team has traditionally fared better, finishing second in the 1999 World Cup and now ranking 13th in the world, down from the Top 10 a decade ago.
中国国家男子足球队在全球排名第83位，在危地马拉队和洪都拉斯队之后。女队在历史上一直表现较好，曾在1999年的女子世界杯赛上获得亚军，如今在世界上排名第13位，低于十年前的前十排名。
The shortcomings of the men’s team have variously been attributed to match-fixing, disorganization in the professional leagues, a rigid state-organized sports system and a limited pool of young players. But a strong performance at the 2015 Asian Cup in January in Australia, in which China won its group before being eliminated by the host country that went on to win the event, led to comments by China’s anticorruption body, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, that a crackdown on graft was paying dividends for the sport.
男队的缺点被归于各种各样的原因，比如踢假球、职业联赛组织混乱、国家管理足球的体制僵硬，以及年轻足球人才匮乏等。不过，在1月份于澳大利亚举办的2015年亚洲杯赛中，男足表现不错，在小组赛中胜出，但后来被东道国淘汰，东道国赢得了此次比赛的冠军。中国负责反腐的机构中共中央纪律检查委员会对此发表评论说，这是打击腐败的成果。
The plan for the sport in China includes separating the country’s soccer association from the national sports administration, to give it more autonomy.
足球改革发展方案包括，让中国足球协会与国家体育总局脱钩，赋予足协更多的自主权。
The medium-term goal is to greatly expand youth involvement in the sport and to bring “the organization and competitive level of the professional league on par with the top class in Asia,” the State Council announcement said, “bringing the men’s national team to the forefront in Asia, and returning the women’s team to the top ranks in the world.”
国务院的通知称，中期目标是大幅增加参与这项运动的青少年人数，让“职业联赛组织和竞赛水平达到亚洲一流，国家男足跻身亚洲前列，女足重返世界一流强队行列”。
The long-term goals include hosting a World Cup and elevating the men’s team to the top ranks of international competition. The event has been held in Asia only once, when it was played in South Korea and Japan in 2002. Qatar will host the competition in 2022.
远期目标包括申办世界杯，显著提升国家男足国际竞争力，使其进入世界强队行列。世界杯足球赛只在亚洲举行过一次，那是在2002年，韩国和日本同为东道国。2022年的世界杯赛将由卡塔尔主办。
Under the new proposals, China will widely expand soccer education at schools and universities. There are more than 5,000 elementary and middle schools in China today that provide soccer coaching, a number that is forecast to reach 20,000 by 2020 and 50,000 by 2025, according to the announcement on Monday.
根据这项新方案，中国将在中小学和大学大力推进足球教育。据周一公布的方案，中国目前有5000所中小学是足球特色学校，这一数字预计将在2020年达到2万所，在2025年达到5万所。