HONG KONG — China’s central bank announced on Wednesday evening that it had reduced the share of assets that commercial banks must hold as reserves, freeing them to lend more and providing a potential stimulus to economic growth.
香港——中国央行周三晚间宣布，将降低商业银行必须作为储备所持有的资产份额，为它们发放更多贷款提供了空间，也为经济增长提供了一个潜在的刺激。
The People’s Bank of China joined an ever-lengthening list of central banks that have eased monetary policy as falling oil prices have reduced the risk of inflation while weak global demand has led to slower economic growth.
随着油价下跌使通货膨胀的风险降低，同时全球需求疲软导致经济增长放缓，各国央行纷纷采取货币宽松政策，中国人民银行也加到这个行列中来。
The Reserve Bank of India made a very similar decision on Tuesday to reduce the minimum reserves that it requires commercial banks to hold, while the Reserve Bank of Australia cut its benchmark interest rate on Tuesday to a record low. The European Central Bank, the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Bank of Canada have also recently eased monetary policy.
印度储备银行周二做出了一个非常类似的决定，减低了其要求商业银行所持有的最低准备金，而澳大利亚央行则在周二将其基准利率下调到历史新低。欧洲中央银行、新加坡金融管理局，以及加拿大央行最近也放松了货币政策。
The People’s Bank of China on Wednesday reduced its reserve requirement ratio by half a percentage point. The ratio varies by financial institutions, but for big commercial banks this means a reduction to 19.5 percent, from 20 percent.
中国人民银行周三将存款准备金率降低了半个百分点。准备金率随金融机构而异，但对大型商业银行来说，这意味着从20％降低到19.5％。
The Chinese central bank’s decision came as two sectors strongly affected by monetary policy — real estate and heavy industry like steel production — have become the two biggest brakes on the country’s economy. Real estate prices have been gradually falling since last spring, and while the pace of the decline has begun to slow, construction has lost momentum.
中国央行的决定是在两个受货币政策影响最大的行业——房地产以及像钢铁生产这样的重工业——已成为国内经济两个最大的拖累时做出的。自去年春天以来，房地产价格一直在逐步降低，虽然下降的速度已开始放缓，但建筑业早已失去了势头。
Because construction requires steel, that has contributed to a sharp drop in steel prices in China this month. While the drop to some extent reflected the halving of iron ore prices last year — steel mills initially resisted cutting prices and pocketed their savings on iron ore, the main component of steel — the price decline was also a warning sign of very weak demand.
因为建筑需要钢材，所以这部分地导致了中国钢材价格在本月大幅下降。虽然价格下降在一定程度上也反映了铁矿石价格曾在去年减半，而钢厂曾一度抵制降低钢材价格，从而将钢材的主要成分铁矿石上得到的盈利据为己有，但价格下降也对极为疲软的需求发出了警告。
“The People’s Bank of China will continue to implement a prudent monetary policy maintained to an appropriate degree, guide monetary credit and social financing to steady moderate growth, and promote the smooth operation of economic health,” the bank said in a statement announcing its decision.
“中国人民银行将继续实施稳健的货币政策，保持松紧适度，引导货币信贷和社会融资规模平稳适度增长，促进经济健康平稳运行，”央行在宣布决定的声明中这样说。
The reduction in the reserve ratio was set to take effect on Thursday. That allows time for commercial banks to supply extra money to the economy ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday, which starts two weeks later.
存款准备金率的降低定于从周四开始实施。这让商业银行有时间在农历新年假期到来之前为经济提供额外的资金，春节始于两周后的周四。
The days leading up to Lunar New Year celebrations are often characterized by heavy spending on parties and gifts, and the central bank commonly injects extra money into the financial system to accommodate this — although it usually chooses less drastic measures to do so, such as short-term loans to commercial banks.
在庆祝农历新年之前的日子里，一般会有很多花在团拜会和礼物上的开支，央行通常会向金融系统注入额外资金，以满足这些花销，但它通常会选择不这么极端的做法，比如向商业银行提供短期贷款。
“Liquidity typically tightens ahead of Chinese New Year, which may explain the timing of this decision,” wrote Mark Williams, the chief Asia economist in the London office of Capital Economics, a research firm.
“流动性一般会在中国农历新年前收紧，这也许可以解释该决定的时机，”研究机构凯投宏观(Capital Economics)伦敦办事处的首席亚洲经济师马克·威廉姆斯(Mark Williams)写道。
Wednesday’s action represents a stepping up of an existing effort to stimulate the Chinese economy through monetary measures, and is not a new policy direction. The People’s Bank of China had already decided in November to lower its benchmark one-year deposit rate by 0.25 percentage point, to 2.75 percent, and reduce the one-year lending rate by 0.4 percentage point, to 5.6 percent.
周三的行动代表着现行的用货币政策来刺激中国经济的努力的加强，而不是一个新的政策方向。中国人民银行已在去年11月决定，将一年期存款的基准利息降低0.25个百分点，至2.75％，并将一年期贷款利率降低0.4个百分点，至5.6％。
The last reduction in the required reserve ratio for large banks, which represent the bulk of the Chinese banking system’s assets, occurred in May 2012, when it was cut from 20.5 percent to 20 percent.
最近一次下调存款准备金率是在2012年5月，那次下调把占有中国银行体系资产主要部分的大型银行的存款准备金率从20.5％降至20％。
Reducing the reserve ratio could create other problems for the central bank. One lies in the potential for further fueling a stock market rally that has been propelled mainly by highly leveraged trading on margin by small investors. Regulators have already tried to reduce the risk of a bubble popping by tightening some limits on margin trading.
降低存款准备金率可能会给央行带来其他问题。一个问题是有可能进一步加剧股票价格上涨，主要是由于小型投资者的融资融券杠杆作用，股市已经在大幅反弹。监管机构已试图通过限制融资融券交易来减少泡沫破灭的风险。
The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.96 percent on Wednesday — the central bank acted after the close of trading — but was still up 31 percent since the start of November.
上海综合指数周三下跌了0.96％，但与去年11月初相比，已上扬了31％。央行的决定是在股市收盘后做出的。
A potentially bigger risk could lie in increasing the Chinese economy’s addiction to credit-driven growth. Easy lending policies by state-controlled banks, particularly from 2009 to 2012 as China sought to avoid the effects of the global financial crisis, have left a long list of industries bedeviled by severe overcapacity, falling prices and little or no profit — and scant ability to repay bank loans.
一个潜在的更大风险可能是，这会增加中国经济对信贷驱动型增长的依赖。放松由国家控制的银行的贷款政策，尤其是在2009至2012年间，中国为避免全球金融危机的影响所做的那样，已经给中国留下了一个很长的问题行业名单，这些行业都面临着严重产能过剩、产品价格下跌，以及几乎或根本不盈利的问题，它们几乎没有偿还银行贷款的能力。
Fearing that additional lending could result in even more nonperforming loans, the central bank has periodically tried to signal tighter monetary policies, only to face overwhelming pressure from other government agencies for easier credit to prevent the economy from slowing further. The Chinese economy grew 7.7 percent in 2013 and 7.4 percent last year.
由于担心增加贷款可能会导致更多的不良贷款，央行时不时会释放货币紧缩政策的信号，但总是受到来自其他政府机构的铺天盖地的压力，这些机构为防止经济进一步放缓需要宽松的信贷。中国经济2013年增长了7.7％，去年增长了7.4％。
That was still a brisk pace by most countries’ standards, but slower than the double-digit pace that many Chinese companies became accustomed to over the past three decades, and had built their business models around.
这种增长率按大多数国家的标准来看，仍非常快，但比以往两位数的增长率慢了不少，而许多中国企业已在过去三十年中习惯了那种快速增长，它们的商业模式是建立在那种增长率之上的。
Reducing the reserve ratio means that banks will be allowed to park less of their money at the central bank, where it earns negligible interest, and to lend it instead to other banks or to businesses and individuals. The greater availability of loans is likely to push down interest rates, which in turn will make it less attractive to invest in China’s currency, the renminbi.
降低存款准备金率意味着，银行将被允许把更少的钱交给中央银行保管，银行在央行的存款利率收入极低，从而能将多出来的钱贷款给其他银行、企业或个人。更多的贷款很可能会导致利率降低，这会让投资人民币的吸引力下降。
That could result in further weakening of the renminbi, which would make Chinese goods even more competitive in foreign markets, while making imports more expensive in China. In the United States, many Democrats and some Republicans in Congress have called over the years for China to be confronted on what they describe as the deliberate undervaluation of the renminbi to help Chinese exports.
这可能会导致人民币的进一步削弱，使中国商品在国外市场更具竞争力，同时使进口商品在中国变得更贵。美国国会中有许多民主党人和一些共和党人已呼吁多年，要求采取强硬对措，对付他们称之为中国为了帮助本国出口故意让人民币贬值的做法。
The value of the renminbi, as set by the central bank at the start of each day’s trading in Shanghai, has inched down 0.2 percent against the dollar since mid-January. Economists at Standard Chartered predicted in a research note on Wednesday evening that the renminbi would not decline immediately, because some investors would hold it in the hope that the central bank’s action would help pick up the tempo of economic growth. But with the dollar strong in currency markets, and the central bank limiting its intervention in those markets, the renminbi could later weaken, the economists said.
人民币的价格由央行在上海每天交易开始时设定，自一月中旬以来，人民币兑美元的汇率已小幅下跌了0.2％。渣打银行的经济学家在周三晚间发布的一份研究报告中预测，人民币不会马上下跌，因为一些投资者出于对央行的行动将有助于提升经济增长速度的希望，会继续持有人民币。但由于美元在货币市场的强硬走势，以及央行限制自己对这些市场的介入，人民币可能在未来减弱，这些经济学家说。