The experiment with human embryos was dreaded, yet widely anticipated. Scientists somewhere, researchers said, were trying to edit genes with a technique that would permanently alter the DNA of every cell so that any changes would be passed on from generation to generation.
使用人类胚胎做实验后果令人担忧，但却并非闻所未闻。研究人员表示，某些地方的科学家正在试图使用一种可以永久改变所有细胞DNA的技术来编辑基因，这些基因变化将可遗传给后代。
Those concerns drove leading researchers to issue urgent calls in major scientific journals last month to halt such work on human embryos, at least until it could be proved safe and until society decided if it was ethical.
对于可怕后果的担心促使学术前沿的研究者上个月通过一些重要的学术期刊发出紧急呼吁，要求停止对人类胚胎进行此类的研究工作，至少到人类胚胎实验的安全性得到证明、伦理方面得到社会认可之前。
Now, scientists in China report that they tried it.
现在，中国的科学家发表的论文称，他们已经尝试过这么做。
The experiment failed, in precisely the ways that had been feared.
实验失败了，正如之前担心的那样。
The Chinese researchers did not plan to produce a baby — they used defective human embryos — but did hope to end up with an embryo with a precisely altered gene in every cell but no other inadvertent DNA damage. None of the 85 human embryos they injected fulfilled those criteria. In almost every case, either the embryo died or the gene was not altered. Even the four embryos in which the targeted gene was edited had problems. Some of the embryo cells overrode the editing, resulting in embryos that were genetic mosaics. And speckled over their DNA was a sort of collateral damage – DNA mutations caused by the editing attempt.
中国的研究人员并无计划培育出一个婴儿——他们使用的是有缺陷的人类胚胎——但希望最后能得到每个细胞的缺陷基因都被精确改变的胚胎，而且没有因为不慎造成DNA损害。 85个被注射的人类胚胎无一符合这些标准。在几乎所有的情况下，胚胎要么死亡，要么基因未改变。即便是目标基因被编辑的四个胚胎也存在问题。有些胚胎细胞克服了基因编辑的影响，而出现了遗传嵌合现象(genetic mosaics)。尝试基因编辑还导致出现DNA突变，对胚胎细胞造成了间接的损害。
“Their study should give pause to any practitioner who thinks the technology is ready for testing to eradicate disease genes during I.V.F.,” said Dr. George Q. Daley, a stem cell researcher at Harvard, referring to in vitro fertilization. “This is an unsafe procedure and should not be practiced at this time, and perhaps never.”
“他们的研究应该会让任何认为技术已经准备好，可以在体外受精阶段进行消除疾病基因的尝试的研究人员冷静一下。”哈佛大学的干细胞专家乔治·戴利(George Q. Daley)博士说。“这是个不安全的操作，并不应该在当前进行，或许永远都不该进行。”
David Baltimore, a Nobel laureate molecular biologist and former president of the California Institute of Technology, said, “It shows how immature the science is,” adding, “We have learned a lot from their attempts, mainly about what can go wrong.”
戴维·巴尔的摩(David Baltimore)说，“这表明科学是多么不成熟”，并补充道，“从他们的尝试中我们获益良多，主要是什么可能出错。”巴尔的摩是诺贝尔奖得主、分子生物学家，曾担任加州理工学院校长。
But some researchers worry that this paper is just an initial sally and that attempts will continue with clinical applications in mind. They fear the result will be the birth of babies whose every cell has been altered by scientists in a rush to be first. This could happen well before researchers know enough about the consequences of editing genes, before they know how to edit safely and before society can debate if such procedures are even acceptable.
但一些研究人员担心，这篇论文只是个开始，有了临床应用的打算，可能会继续更多的尝试。他们害怕出现这样的结果：所有细胞都被改变的婴儿诞生只是因为科学家想争当第一人。这可能会发生在研究人员对编辑基因的后果足够了解之前，发生在他们知道如何安全编辑基因之前，甚至发生在社会能够讨论这些操作是否被接受之前。
Gene editing uses a method called Crispr that has rapidly become a research stalwart. It exploits a system that bacteria use to protect themselves from viruses and allows researchers to cut out selected genes and insert new ones.
基因编辑使用的方法Crispr已经迅速成为重要的研究手段。它利用了细菌用来保护自己免受病毒袭击的一个系统，允许科研人员切掉选择的基因，插入新的基因。
A pressing question, said Rudolf Jaenisch, an M.I.T. biology professor, is why anyone would want to edit the genes of human embryos in order to prevent disease. Even in the most severe cases, involving diseases like Huntington’s in which a single copy of a mutated gene inherited from either parent is enough to cause the disease with 100 percent certainty, editing poses ethical problems. Because of the way genes are distributed in embryos, when one parent has the gene, only half of the parent’s embryos will inherit it. With gene editing, the cutting and pasting has to start immediately, in a fertilized egg, before it is possible to know if an embryo has the Huntington’s gene. That means half the embryos that were edited would have been normal — their DNA would have been forever altered for no reason. “It is unacceptable to mutate normal embryos,” Dr. Jaenisch said. “For me, that means there is no application.”
麻省理工学院生物学教授鲁道夫·耶尼施(Rudolf Jaenisch)说，一个紧迫的问题是，为什么人们会想通过编辑人类胚胎基因来预防疾病的发生。即使是最严重的情况下，像亨廷顿病（Huntington’s），遗传自双亲任一方的一个拷贝的突变基因，就足以百分之百致病。对这样的疾病编辑基因也会引发伦理问题。鉴于基因在胚胎中的分布方式，如果双亲任一方有亨廷顿病基因，只有一半的父母胚胎才会继承这个基因。使用这项基因编辑技术，基因的剪切和粘贴必须在受精卵中迅速完成；有可能在知道一个胚胎是否携带有亨廷顿病基因前。这意味着被编辑的胚胎有一半可能是正常的——它们的DNA无故地被永远改变。“改变正常胚胎是不可接受的，”耶尼施说，“对我而言，这意味应用没门儿。”
Noting the many unresolved questions about gene editing of human embryos, a group of leading American researchers recently published a paper in the journal Science calling for a moratorium on doing such work for clinical purposes. They pointed out that current knowledge about genes and their interactions is limited and that changing a disease gene in an embryo that then develops into a baby could have unintended consequences that would be inherited by all of that person’s progeny.
注意到对人类胚胎进行基因编辑存在诸多未解决的问题，一批杰出的美国研究人员最近在《科学》杂志发表文章，号召停止以临床应用为目的的研究工作。他们指出，当前关于基因和它们之间相互作用的知识有限，在胚胎中改变一种疾病的基因，胚胎之后发育为婴儿，可能会带来无法预料的后果，这种改变可能会被此人的所有后代继承。
A recent paper in the journal Nature made similar points. In it, Edward Lanphier of Sangamo Biosciences in Richmond, Calif., and his colleagues wrote: “In our view, genome editing in human embryos using current technologies could have unpredictable effects on future generations. This makes it dangerous and ethically unacceptable.”
《自然》杂志的最近一篇论文发表了类似的观点。来自加州里士满Sangamo Biosciences公司的爱德华·兰菲尔（Edward Lanphier）和他的同事在这篇文章中写道，“在我们看来，使用当前的技术编辑人类胚胎基因组可能会对未来的后代产生不可预知的影响。这很危险，在道德上不可接受。”
In an interview, Dr. Lanphier added, “It literally boils down to, How do you feel about the human race and the human species?”
兰菲尔博士在接受采访时补充道，“这个问题实质是，你如何看待人类种族和人类这个物种？”
The new paper, he said, is “a bull’s-eye example of the two issues we were concerned about.” It shows that the technology is not ready for editing genes of human embryos, he said. But, he added: “As that work goes on, if one, five, 12, 100 labs are doing it, the process could get effective. That is what we want to slow down until we have an opportunity to discuss whether it should be done.”
他认为，这篇新论文是“我们关心的两个问题的焦点。”这表明编辑人类胚胎的技术还不完备，他说。但是，他补充道，“随着研究的继续进行，如果1个，5个，12个，100个实验室研究它，这一操作可能会更高效。在有机会讨论是否应该做之前，我们希望能放缓这一研究过程。”
In their new paper, published in the online journal Protein & Cell, Junjiu Huang and Canquan Zhou and colleagues at Sun Yat-sen University in Guangzhou say they obtained human embryos from a fertility clinic. None could have developed normally because they had extra chromosomes, so they had been donated for research. The investigators used the Crispr method to try to edit a gene that, when mutated, causes beta thalassemia, a serious blood disorder. Their goal was to alter that gene and only that gene in every cell of the developing embryo.
这篇新论文发表在网络学术期刊《蛋白和细胞》(Protein & Cell)。黄军就和周灿权以及中山大学的同事在论文中表示，他们从一个妇产门诊得到这些人类胚胎。这些胚胎没有一个发育正常，因为它们携带了多余染色体，因此被捐献供研究使用。研究者使用Crispr技术试图去编辑一个会导致β地中海贫血的基因突变，β地中海贫血是一种严重的血液疾病。他们的目标是改变这个基因，也仅改变发育胚胎中的这一基因。
The Chinese researchers point out that in their experiment gene editing almost certainly caused more extensive damage than they documented; they did not examine the entire genomes of the embryo cells.
中国的研究人员指出，在他们的实验中，基因编辑几乎肯定造成了比记载更加广泛的伤害；他们没有检查胚胎细胞中的整个基因组。
Dr. Daley notes that when cloning techniques were developed, there was an international consensus that it would be unacceptable to clone a human being. Nonetheless, some researchers tried. He worries that something similar will happen with gene editing.
戴利博士提到，克隆技术发展的时候，国际上达成了克隆人类不可接受的共识。然而，一些研究人员做过这样的尝试。他担心类似的事情也会发生在基因编辑领域。“这种方式的干涉会赢得世界范围的喝彩，”戴利博士说。“我认为，正是此类疯狂的动机在鼓励人们做事情。”
“This type of intervention would achieve worldwide acclaim,” Dr. Daley said. “I think that is the sort of deranged motivation that sometimes prompts people to do things.”