The former British prime minister Tony Blair will be there, watching thousands of Chinese troops strut in unison past Tiananmen Square, accompanied by tanks as well as missiles and fighter jets overhead.
前英国首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)将会出现在阅兵式现场，观看数以千计的中国士兵整齐划一地阔步走过天安门广场，还有各种坦克和导弹方队，以及在上空飞行的战机编队。
So will the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, as well as the presidents of Belarus, Egypt, Myanmar, Pakistan and Venezuela and the secretary general of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，白俄罗斯、埃及、缅甸、巴基斯坦和委内瑞拉等国总统，以及联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)，也会出席阅兵式。
On Tuesday, the Chinese government announced the foreign leaders scheduled to watch the vast military parade in central Beijing next week, commemorating the 70th anniversary of the defeat of Japan and other Axis powers in World War II. Zhang Ming, a vice minister of foreign affairs, read out the V.I.P. guest list for the parade at a news conference in Beijing, and he said he was pleased with the lineup for the parade on Sept. 3.
周二，中国政府宣布了计划到场观看下周举行的大型阅兵式的外国领导人名单。这次阅兵式是为纪念二战中战胜日本和其他轴心国势力70周年而举行，地点在北京中心地带。中国外交部副部长张明在一场于北京举行的新闻发布会上宣读了出席阅兵式的外国嘉宾名单，并表示对9月3号的外宾阵容感到满意。
“The foreign dignitaries attending the commemoration come from every major continent and are highly representative,” Mr. Zhang said. China, he added, would “invite the great family of the international community and to celebrate this great day together with the Chinese people.”
“出席纪念活动的外宾来自各个大洲，具有相当广泛的代表性，”张明说道。他还表示，中国也“邀请国际社会大家庭与中国人民共同庆祝这个伟大日子。”
But when Mr. Zhang read the names, the absences were also notable from the eclectic guest list, dominated by governments eager to maintain good ties with China.
但是，出现在这份折中的嘉宾名单上领导人主要来自急于和中国保持友好关系的国家。当张明宣读名单时，那些缺席的人名也相当引人注目。
Senior Western leaders, including President Obama, were never likely to appear at the People’s Liberation Army extravaganza that, while celebrating the defeat of fascism, has exuded swaggering pride in China’s growing military strength.
包括美国总统奥巴马在内的重要西方领导人，似乎从来不可能出现在场面铺张的中国人民解放军阅兵式上。尽管阅兵式是为纪念战胜法西斯主义而举办，但活动本身却散发出由中国日益增长的军事实力而生发的趾高气昂的自大气息。
But Mr. Zhang dismissed the idea that the Chinese government might be insulted by the absence of senior Western leaders from the long-planned parade.
不过，张明否认重要西方领导人缺席这一计划许久的阅兵式对于中国政府是一种侮辱。
“It’s up to each country to decide whom to send to attend,” he said.
“各国派谁出席，是各国自己的决定，”他说。
There had been speculation that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan might turn up in Beijing, without watching the military march. But Mr. Abe’s office emphatically ruled that out on Monday. Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader who has stayed markedly aloof from China, will also be absent, despite his government’s need for economic and political support from Beijing.
之前外界曾猜测日本首相安倍晋三可能会前往北京但不出席阅兵式。不过，安倍政府周一已经断然否定了这种可能。一直明显与中国保持疏离的朝鲜领导人金正恩，也将缺席此次活动，尽管他的政府需要来自北京的经济和政治支持。
Mr. Zhang denied that the display of Chinese armed might was intended to intimidate Japan.
张明也否认中国展示军事实力有意恐吓日本。
“We have stressed a number of times that the commemoration is not aimed at specific countries, and nor is it aimed at current-day Japan, and even less is it aimed at the Japanese people,” he said.
“我们已多次指出，活动不针对特定国家，不针对今天的日本，更不针对广大日本人民，”他说。
A former Japanese prime minister, Tomiichi Murayama, who when in office supported an apology for his country’s wartime misdeeds, will attend. North Korea will be represented by a senior official in the ruling Workers’ Party.
日本前首相村山富市(Tomiichi Murayama)将出席阅兵式，他在自己担任日本首相期间曾支持为日本在二战中的罪行道歉。朝鲜方面将有一名执政的朝鲜劳动党高层官员出席该活动。
Mr. Blair is not attending as an official representative of the British government. Mr. Zhang said that Britain would be represented by Kenneth Clarke, a senior Conservative politician who once served as the justice secretary.
布莱尔不是以英国政府官方代表的身份出席阅兵式。张明表示，英国方面将由前司法大臣、保守党高层人士肯尼思·克拉克(Kenneth Clarke)出席。
In addition to 30 state leaders, the attendees will include 19 senior representatives, including from Australia, Brazil and France, which will be represented by its foreign minister, Laurent Fabius.
除了30名国家领导人，出席活动的嘉宾还包括19名来自澳大利亚、巴西和法国等国的政府高层代表，其中代表法国参加活动的是外交部长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)。
Also on hand at the parade will be nearly 1,000 troops from 17 countries, said Qu Rui, deputy operations chief for the People’s Liberation Army’s General Staff Headquarters. Belarus, Cuba, Egypt, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mexico, Mongolia, Pakistan, Russia, Serbia and Tajikistan are contributing formations of about 75 personnel each. Afghanistan, Cambodia, Fiji, Laos, Vanuatu and Venezuela have sent teams of about seven people each, he said.
人民解放军总参作战部副部长曲睿表示，还将有来自17个国家、规模近1000人的外国方队和代表队参加阅兵式。他表示，白俄罗斯、古巴、埃及、哈萨克斯坦、吉尔吉斯斯坦、墨西哥、蒙古、巴基斯坦、俄罗斯、塞尔维亚和塔吉克斯坦将分别派出75人的方队参加阅兵式。阿富汗、柬埔寨、斐济、老挝、瓦努阿图、委内瑞拉则分别派出七人左右的代表队。