Suicide rates among middle-aged Americans have risen sharply in the past decade, prompting concern that a generation of baby boomers who have faced years of economic worry and easy access to prescription painkillers may be particularly vulnerable to self-inflicted harm.
过去十年间，中年美国人这一群体的自杀率出现显著上升，从而引发了人们的担忧：经历了多年经济忧患、并能轻易获取处方止痛药的婴儿潮这代人在面对自我伤害的风险时可能尤其脆弱。
More people now die of suicide than in car accidents, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which published the findings in Friday’s issue of its Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. In 2010 there were 33,687 deaths from motor vehicle crashes and 38,364 suicides.
美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)在周五发布的新一期《发病率和死亡率周报》(Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report)中指出，死于自杀的人数高于死于车祸的人数。2010年总共有33687人死于车祸，而自杀身亡的人数为38364人。 
Suicide has typically been viewed as a problem of teenagers and the elderly, and the surge in suicide rates among middle-aged Americans is surprising.
自杀通常被看作青少年和老年人的问题，但中年美国人的自杀率出现飙升，确实令人吃惊。
From 1999 to 2010, the suicide rate among Americans ages 35 to 64 rose by nearly 30 percent, to 17.6 deaths per 100,000 people, up from 13.7. Although suicide rates are growing among both middle-aged men and women, far more men take their own lives. The suicide rate for middle-aged men was 27.3 deaths per 100,000, while for women it was 8.1 deaths per 100,000.
从1999年到2010年，年龄从35岁到64岁的美国人的自杀率上升了近30%，达到每10万人中就有17.6人死于自杀，之前的这一数据为13.7。尽管中年男性和中年女性的自杀率都在上升，但有更多男性亲手结束了自己的生命。中年男性的自杀率是每10万人中27.3人，而对中年女性而言，每10万人中只有8.1人死于自杀。
The most pronounced increases were seen among men in their 50s, a group in which suicide rates jumped by nearly 50 percent, to about 30 per 100,000. For women, the largest increase was seen in those ages 60 to 64, among whom rates increased by nearly 60 percent, to 7.0 per 100,000.
最显著的增加出现在50多岁的男性人群中，该群体的自杀率上升了大约50%，达到每10万人中约30人。对女性而言，最大的增长出现在年龄位于60岁到64岁的女性人群，该群体的自杀率上升了将近60%，达到每10万人中7.0人。
Suicide rates can be difficult to interpret because of variations in the way local officials report causes of death. But C.D.C. and academic researchers said they were confident that the data documented an actual increase in deaths by suicide and not a statistical anomaly. While reporting of suicides is not always consistent around the country, the current numbers are, if anything, too low.
对自杀率作出解释是很困难的，因为地方官员报告死因的方式有差异。但疾病控制与预防中心及学术研究人员称，他们确信这些数据表明自杀死亡案例确实有所增加，而不是统计上的异常。尽管对自杀案例的报告在全国各地并不总是一致，目前的数据其实还太低。
“It’s vastly underreported,” said Julie Phillips, an associate professor of sociology at Rutgers University who has published research on rising suicide rates. “We know we’re not counting all suicides.”
“自杀案例被大大低报了，”罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)的社会学副教授朱莉·菲利普斯(Julie Phillips)说。“我们知道我们没有把所有的自杀案例算在内。”菲利普斯发表过关于自杀率上升的研究报告。
The reasons for suicide are often complex, and officials and researchers acknowledge that no one can explain with certainty what is behind the rise. But C.D.C. officials cited a number of possible explanations, including that as adolescents people in this generation also posted higher rates of suicide compared with other cohorts.
自杀的原因通常很复杂，官方和研究人员都承认，没有人能明确解释自杀率上升背后的原因是什么。但疾病控制与预防中心的官员列出了一些可能的解释，如和其他代际群体相比，这代人在青少年时期也曾出现更高的自杀率。
“It is the baby boomer group where we see the highest rates of suicide,” said the C.D.C.’s deputy director, Ileana Arias. “There may be something about that group, and how they think about life issues and their life choices that may make a difference.”
“我们在婴儿潮一代人中发现了最高的自杀率，”疾病控制与预防中心的副主任伊利安娜·阿里亚斯(Ileana Arias)说。“这一群体可能自身存在一些问题，他们如何看待人生问题以及他们对人生作何选择都可能产生影响。”
The rise in suicides may also stem from the economic downturn over the past decade. Historically, suicide rates rise during times of financial stress and economic setbacks. “The increase does coincide with a decrease in financial standing for a lot of families over the same time period,” Dr. Arias said.
自杀率的上升也可能源于过去10年内的经济低迷。从历史上看，自杀率会在有金融压力和经济挫折的时期上升。“其上升确实与同一时期内许多家庭经济状况的下降相符，”阿里亚斯博士说。
Another factor may be the widespread availability of opioid drugs like OxyContin and oxycodone, which can be particularly deadly in large doses.
另一个因素可能与奥施康定和羟考酮之类阿片类药物的大范围使用有关，在大剂量服用的情况下，这些药物非常致命。
Although most suicides are still committed using firearms, officials said there was a marked increase in poisoning deaths, which include intentional overdoses of prescription drugs, and hangings. Poisoning deaths were up 24 percent over all during the 10-year period and hangings were up 81 percent.
尽管大多数自杀仍旧使用枪械，官员称服毒自杀（包括故意过量服用处方药）和自缢也有着显著增加。在过去10年间，服毒自杀总共上升了24%，而自缢上升了81%。
Dr. Arias noted that the higher suicide rates might be due to a series of life and financial circumstances that are unique to the baby boomer generation. Men and women in that age group are often coping with the stress of caring for aging parents while still providing financial and emotional support to adult children.
阿里亚斯博士指出，较高的自杀率可能是由婴儿潮一代人所特有的一系列生活和经济情况所导致。这个年龄层的男女通常需要面临着的很大压力，他们在照顾年迈父母的同时仍需为成年子女提供经济和情感支持。
“Their lives are configured a little differently than it has been in the past for that age group,” Dr. Arias said. “It may not be that they are more sensitive or that they have a predisposition to suicide, but that they may be dealing with more.”
“对与这一代人，他们与之前这个年龄段的人群的生活有些不同，”阿里亚斯博士说。“这大概不是因为他们更加敏感或有自杀倾向，而是因为他们可能要处理更多问题。”
Preliminary research at Rutgers suggests that the risk for suicide is unlikely to abate for future generations. Changes in marriage, social isolation and family roles mean many of the pressures faced by baby boomers will continue in the next generation, Dr. Phillips said.
罗格斯大学的初步研究表明，对未来的几代人来说，自杀的风险似乎不会减小。在婚姻、社交孤立和家庭角色等方面的转变意味着婴儿潮一代所面对的压力将持续到下一代，菲利普斯博士说。
“The boomers had great expectations for what their life might look like, but I think perhaps it hasn’t panned out that way,” she said. “All these conditions the boomers are facing, future cohorts are going to be facing many of these conditions as well.”
“婴儿潮一代曾对自己的生活寄予厚望，但我想一切可能并非尽如人意，”她说。“在婴儿潮一代所面对的所有这些状况里，其中许多也将在未来几代人的生活里出现。”
Nancy Berliner, a Boston historian, lost her 58-year-old husband to suicide nearly two years ago. She said that while the reasons for his suicide were complex, she would like to see more attention paid to prevention and support for family members who lose someone to suicide.
近两年前，波士顿的历史学家白铃安(Nancy Berliner)的丈夫在58岁时自杀。她说，他自杀的原因是复杂的，她希望更多关注能够被投向预防自杀，以及对自杀者家庭成员的支持上。
“One suicide can inspire other people, unfortunately, to view suicide as an option,” Ms. Berliner said. “It’s important that society becomes more comfortable with discussing it. Then the people left behind will not have this stigma.”
“不幸的是，自杀者可以启发别人把自杀视为一种选择，”白铃安说。“重要的是，社会应该更易于接受对自杀进行探讨。这样，留下来的人才能不再身背耻辱。”