For 16 years, children’s rights advocates have called on the Chinese government to do away with a law that allows men who have sex with girls under 14 years of age, the legal age of consent, to receive a more lenient punishment than those convicted of raping older girls or women if they can “prove” that the child was paid or otherwise compensated for sex.
16年来，儿童权利倡导者们一直在呼吁中国政府废除一项法律。根据这项法律，与未满14岁幼女发生性行为的男子，如果能够“证明”自己向幼女支付了报酬或其他补偿，获得的惩罚就会比强奸年龄较大的女孩或女子的罪犯更加宽松。14岁是自愿性行为的法定年龄。
The crime of “spending the night in a brothel with a young girl” provides an incentive for sexual predators to choose younger girls in order to evade the heaviest sentences, critics say. Men accused of raping a child could bribe or force the girl or her family to testify that she had been paid. The law also stigmatizes the girls by labeling them as prostitutes, activists say.
“嫖宿幼女罪”为性侵者提供了选择年幼女孩从而逃避最重惩罚的动机，批评人士说。被控强奸儿童的人，可以贿赂或强迫幼女及其家人作伪证，称她已经获得了报酬，以逃避重罚。活动人士表示，这项法律认可了幼女“卖淫女”的身份，这一标签是对幼女的极大侮辱。
The Chinese Supreme Court has indicated to a leading proponent of changing the law, National People’s Congress deputy Sun Xiaomei, that it accepts the argument that the law, which has been on the books since 1997, is unfair and wrong. While no date has been set for the legal change, child rights activists and feminists are jubilant.
中国最高法院已向倡导修改这项法律的主要活动者、全国人民代表孙晓梅表示，赞成她的观点，即1997年颁布的这项法律是不公平的、错误的。虽然修改法律的日期没有确定，但这一消息让儿童权益活动人士和女权主义者感到欢欣鼓舞。
“It’s a really, really positive change,” said Zhang Rongli, a law professor at the China Women’s University. “And it’s an example of the government listening to public opinion. This law was very unpopular throughout society. Surveys showed that 98 or 99 percent of people opposed it. The government listened.”
“这是一个非常、非常积极的变化，”中华女子学院的法学教授张荣丽称。“这是政府听取民意的一个例子。这项法律在全社会非常不得人心。调查显示，有98％到99％的人反对它。政府听取了民意。”
“While we have to wait for the change to become law, and the Supreme Court can’t legislate, only the National People’s Congress can, we’ve been told that it is already effectively over,” Ms. Zhang said.
“我们必须等待法律的修改，最高法院不能立法，只有全国人民代表大会可以，但他们告诉我们，这项法律实质上已被废止。”张荣丽说。
Word of the decision spread last Saturday at a conference on child rights attended by activists, academics and reporters, she said. For years, Ms. Sun, a university colleague of Ms. Zhang, had pushed in the National People’s Congress for the law to be changed, as had many others. Last July Ms. Sun received the first indication from officials that they would do so, said Ms. Zhang.
上周六，这个决定在活动人士、学者和记者参加的一个儿童权益会议上进行了通报。多年来，张荣丽同一所大学的同事孙晓梅跟其他很多人一起，在全国人民代表大会上推动这项法律的修改。张荣丽说，今年7月，孙晓梅第一次听到官员表示他们会这么做。
On Monday, Beijing Youth Daily, a Communist Party newspaper, cited unnamed officials in the Supreme Court as saying it “completely agreed” that the law should be expunged. The main reason they gave was that “while the crime of ‘spending the night with a young girl in a brothel’ did punish the man, it also gave the girl a shameful label,” the newspaper said.
本周一，党报《北京青年报》援引最高法院未具名官员的话称，该法院“完全赞成”这条法律应予废除。他们给出的主要原因是，虽然“嫖宿幼女罪”对被告人进行了处罚，但也给幼女挂上了侮辱性的标签，该报表示。
The discrepancy in penalties depending on payment was also a problem, said Ms. Zhang. As was the fact that the law set no “lower limit” for age, applying to children from birth to 14. “It was awful,” she said.
根据支付给幼女的报酬来确定处罚的轻重也是一个问题，张荣丽说。由于这项法律没有规定年龄“下限”，因此适用于从出生到14岁的儿童。“这太可怕了，”她说。
The penalty for rape in China can include life in jail and execution, whereas the penalty for “spending a night with a young girl in a brothel is capped at 15 years. “Of course, it’s not at all the same thing if you can’t get life or execution,” said Ms. Zhang.
在中国，强奸罪名的处罚包括无期徒刑和死刑，而“嫖宿幼女罪”的处罚上限则是有期徒刑15年。“当然，如果不会被判死刑或者无期徒刑，性质是完全不一样的。”张荣丽说。