BEIJING — China accused the Philippines on Monday of illegally occupying Chinese territory after a Filipino vessel outmaneuvered the Chinese Coast Guard and resupplied a ship that has been stranded for 15 years on the Second Thomas Shoal, a tiny reef in the South China Sea.
北京——中国周一指责菲律宾非法占领中国领土，此前一艘菲律宾舰船冲破中国海警的围堵，给在南海中一个小礁上搁浅了15年的船只提供了补给。
Chinese ships prevented the Philippines from resupplying the boat and its eight-man military crew in early March, but on Saturday a Filipino vessel manned by troops managed to keep the Chinese at bay by going into shallow waters and lifting food onto the stranded ship.
3月初中国船只曾阻止菲律宾向这艘船及船上的8名军人提供补给，但是上周六，一艘由军人驾驶的菲律宾船只通过驶入浅水区，冲破了中国船舶的围堵，向搁浅的船运送了食物。
“This is a political provocation,” the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman, Hong Lei, said at a regular briefing on Monday, adding that the Philippines was “hyping” its “illegal occupation” by filing a case on Sunday with the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague.
中国外交部发言人洪磊周一在例行记者会上说，“这是政治挑衅，”并补充称菲律宾周日向海牙国际仲裁庭提起诉讼是为了“炒作”其“非法侵占”。
The submission by the Philippines argues that the Second Thomas Shoal – known as Ayungin in Manila and Ren’ai Reef in Beijing – is 105 nautical miles from the Philippines, well inside the 200 nautical miles of a Philippine exclusive economic zone that allows the Philippines to exploit the waters around the shoal under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the brief says.
菲律宾提交的诉状称，第二托马斯沙洲（Second Thomas Shoal，马尼拉称之为阿云礁、北京称之为仁爱礁）距离菲律宾105海里，完全在菲律宾200海里的专属经济区内，根据《联合国海洋法公约》(United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea)，菲律宾有权开发这个沙洲附近的水域。
The Philippine secretary of foreign affairs, Albert del Rosario, said at a news conference in Manila on Sunday that a ruling on the submission — which includes 4,000 pages and 40 maps and was written by a Washington law firm — was expected in 2015.
菲律宾外长阿尔韦特·德尔罗萨里奥(Albert del Rosario)周日在马尼拉的一次新闻发布会上说，诉状有望在2015年得到仲裁，这份长4000页、附有40张地图的诉状由一家华盛顿律师事务所撰写。
The State Department noted the filing Sunday and said the United States supported the peaceful resolution of territorial disputes in the South China Sea.
美国国务院周日提到了这一诉讼，称美国支持和平解决南海领土纠纷。
The cat-and-mouse maneuvers between the Philippines, an American ally with little naval capacity, and China, which has a fast expanding navy, have captured attention for what they might foretell about future rivalries in the South China Sea.
中国和菲律宾之间猫捉老鼠的游戏引起人们的关注，因为这可能预卜南海未来的竞争，美国的盟友菲律宾海军力量薄弱，而中国的海军力量正在快速扩张。
China claims about 80 percent of the South China Sea, a vital waterway for world trade.
南海是世界贸易的一个至关重要的航道，中国对南海的80%宣称拥有主权。
President Obama is scheduled to visit the Philippines during a tour of Asian allies in April, a trip that does not include China but is bound to highlight China’s projection of power in the South China Sea and the East China Sea.
奥巴马总统将要在4月份的亚洲盟友之旅中访问菲律宾，奥巴马此行虽然不包括中国，但势必会突出中国在南海和东海的实力投射。
In the past year, China has intensified its surveillance operations in the South China Sea, dispatching fishing vessels, coast guard ships and navy ships to keep watch.
去年，中国加强了对南海的监视行动，派出渔船、海警以及海军船舶前去巡察。
To publicize its determination to keep the Second Thomas Shoal, the Philippines invited reporters on board the government vessel that was sent to resupply the Sierra Madre, a rusted warship that has been grounded on the reef since 1999. The warship and its crew had been kept in place as a way to reinforce the Philippine claim to the shoal.
为了公开显示其保护第二托马斯沙洲的决心，菲律宾邀请记者乘坐一艘政府船只，驶往马德雷山号(Sierra Madre)为其提供补给。船体已经生锈的马德雷山号自1999年以来一直搁浅在该小礁上，这艘军舰及上面的船员一直坚守在那里，以此来强调菲律宾对该礁的主权宣称。
China says that the shoal is part of the Nansha Islands, which it says are inside the so-called nine-dash line that runs deep into the waters around Southeast Asia.
中国称，仁爱礁是南沙群岛的一部分，在其所谓的“九段线”以内，“九段线”深入到东南亚国家附近的水域。
As the resupply vessel approached the Sierra Madre on Saturday, two Chinese ships approached the Filipino vessel and sent a radio message saying that it should leave immediately and “stop all” illegal activities. The Filipino vessel kept going and found waters too shallow for the Chinese ships so that the resupply operation could go ahead, Reuters reported.
随着菲律宾补给船周六向马德雷山号靠近，两艘中国船只向这艘菲律宾船靠拢，并用无线电发出通知称，菲方船只应立即离开，“停止所有”非法行动。菲律宾船只继续前行，找到了一条中国船舶无法通过的浅水航道，得以完成补给行动，路透社(Reuters)报道称。
After food and water were heaved onto the Sierra Madre, the crew on board left and a new crew began its rotation.
在向马德雷山号运送完补给物资之后，该舰上原来的船员撤了下来，换上了一批新船员。
The Global Times, said in an editorial on Monday that the “small and weak” Philippines had become the vanguard force of “provoking China.” It warned that China had the ability to force Filipino soldiers off the reef at any time, “like taking thieves away.”
《环球时报》周一在一篇社论中称，“小丑级别”的菲律宾在西方一些力量的纵容下充当“挑衅中国”的先锋。并警告说，中国随时有能力把仁爱礁上的菲律宾士兵“像抓小偷一样带走”。