It’s official: No more “naked officials” rising in the ranks, the Chinese Communist Party has decreed.
中国共产党正式规定，不得再提拔“裸官”。
The problem worrying the party’s agency for fighting corruption is not nudity (although there is that, too), but cadres who have spirited spouses and children abroad, often with bank accounts swollen with bribes and graft. They have become widely known as “naked officials.”
让中共反贪机构担忧的问题不是官员的裸露（尽管这个问题也存在），而是把配偶和子女，通常还有塞满贿赂和贪污所得的银行账户悄悄转移至国外的干部。这样的干部已经被普遍称为“裸官”。
The party’s Central Commission for Discipline Inspection on Wednesday issued rules to bar them and other wayward cadres from advancement. The rules list six categories of banned officials, including “those whose spouses have migrated abroad, or, if there is no spouse, those whose children have moved abroad.”
中共中央纪律检查委员会周三公布规定，禁止提拔裸官和其他任意妄为的干部。相关规定列出了六类不得晋升的官员，其中包括“配偶已移居国（境）外，或者没有配偶、子女均已移居国（境）外的”官员。”
Officials will also be barred from promotion if they illicitly lobby for it, or if their annual performance measurements fall short of expectations over the three most recent years.
有跑官拉票行为的官员，或是近三年年度考核未达到预期的官员，也将无法获得晋升。
The restrictions in the rules are not entirely new. But together with an accompanying speech from President Xi Jinping, they appear intended to emphatically underline his promises to reduce corruption. Since Mr. Xi became Communist Party leader in November 2012, he has sought to stifle official extravagance – on everything from banquets, buildings and official cars to calendars and moon cakes – and make an example of cadres caught taking bribes and stealing state funds.
这些规定中的限制条件并不都是新鲜事物。不过，与中国国家主席习近平同时发表的一次讲话联系起来看，这些限制条件似乎意在强调习近平减少腐败的承诺。自2012年11月出任党领导人以来，习近平一直试图打击官员的奢靡之风——从宴会、大楼、公务用车到日历、月饼，不一而足——并把揪出的收受贿赂和侵吞国家财产的干部树为典型。
“Show determination to apply strong medicine to ills and stern punishment to cure disorder,” Mr. Xi said Tuesday at a meeting of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection. “Show courage to scrape the toxins off the bones and act with the bravery to cut off one’s own wrist.”
周二，习近平在中央纪检委的一次会议上说，“以猛药去疴、重典治乱的决心，以刮骨疗毒、壮士断腕的勇气，坚决把党风廉政建设和反腐败斗争进行到底。”
Analysts have questioned how far the party can go in stamping out corruption when the temptations are so powerful and checks on abuses power remain patchy and easy to evade. And the latest uproar over a party official exposed, literally naked, has brought to eye-popping life the difficulties of bringing wayward cadres into line.
考虑到官员面临的诱惑十分巨大、针对滥权行为的遏制措施漏洞百出且易于逃避，分析人士曾质疑共产党在清除腐败方面能走多远。最近，一名实实在在裸露身体的共产党官员遭到曝光，引发舆论大哗，鲜明体现了使不听话的官员服从管理的困难。
Soon after Mr. Xi became party leader in late 2012, Lei Zhengfu, an official from Chongqing in southwest China, won unsought fame as one of the country’s most watched, ridiculed and reviled men, after images leaked online showed him undressed and enjoying the company of a young woman. Mr. Lei was later dismissed and jailed for taking bribes.
习近平于2012年末成为共产党领导人后不久，中国西南部城市重庆的官员雷政富意外地成为了中国最受关注、嘲笑和辱骂的男人，因为流到网上的图像显示一丝不挂的雷政富在与一名年轻女性寻欢作乐。雷政富后来被开除，并因接受贿赂而入狱。
Since then “indecent footage” of naked, cavorting male officials has become a genre of its own on the Internet in China. The latest cadre to join the lineup is allegedly Qin Guogang, a deputy president of the party training school of Shaanxi Province, in northwest China.
自此之后，男性官员裸体玩乐的“不雅视频”已在中国的网络上自成一类。据说，最新加入不雅视频阵容的是陕西省委党校副校长秦国刚。
Chinese newspapers and Web sites have shared selected images of Mr. Qin, naked and appearing worn out, with a woman who the reports said was studying at the school. He has been suspended from the school, and worse punishment may follow.
中国的报纸和网站纷纷转载有关秦志刚的截图，图片显示秦国刚与一名女性在一起，身体赤裸、面容疲惫，报道称这名女性在该党校学习。秦国刚已被停职，可能会面临更严重的处罚。