One of the surest bets on China is starting to look a bit shaky.
对中国最有把握的一个押注，看起来有点靠不住了。
Every business day for the last nine years, at 9 a.m., government workers in the blandly named Building No. 30 in Shanghai’s Pudong financial district have published what their country’s currency will be worth that day, when compared with the United States dollar.
过去九年，在上海浦东金融区一栋被直白地称为“30幢”的大楼里，政府工作人员每个工作日的上午九点都会公布当天的人民币兑美元汇率。
More often than not, the staff of the China Foreign Exchange Trade System has assigned a value to the currency, the renminbi, slightly stronger than it had finished the previous day. Thanks to the guiding hand of the Chinese state, the renminbi today is about 25 percent stronger than it was in July 2005, when China scrapped the currency’s fixed peg to the dollar in favor of a steady, crawling appreciation.
多数时候，中国外汇交易中心的工作人员都设定好了人民币的币值，让它略高于前一天的收盘价格。在中国政府这只手的导引下，现在的人民币汇率比2005年7月高了大约25%。2005年7月，中国放弃了盯住美元的汇率政策，允许人民币持续缓慢升值。
But recent developments suggest such strengthening is no longer the certainty it once appeared to be. So far this year, the renminbi has weakened 1.6 percent against the dollar. And on Saturday, the central bank, the People’s Bank of China, said that beginning on Monday, it would allow the currency to climb or fall as much as 2 percent per day against the dollar, compared with 1 percent previously.
但最新的情况显示，人民币的升值不再像从前表现得那样确定无疑。今年迄今，人民币兑美元汇率已经下降了1.6%。中国央行在上周六表示，从本周一开始，人民币兑美元的交易价浮动幅度将扩大至2%。
Widening the trading band “will further drive away speculators betting on a one-way appreciation of the Chinese yuan” — another name for the renminbi — “thanks to the possible bigger and more frequent exchange rate fluctuations,” Tan Yaling, president of the China Forex Investment Research Institute, told Xinhua, the state-run news agency, on Sunday.
周日，中国外汇投资研究院院长谭雅玲对国有媒体新华社说，“由于汇率波动可能幅度更大更频繁”，扩大交易区间“将进一步遏制押注人民币单向升值的投机者”。
This newfound volatility and uncertainty over the currency is just one area where, despite recent economic data suggesting that growth is decelerating to its slowest pace in over a decade, China is pushing ahead with a campaign of wide-ranging financial overhauls. If carried out, they are likely to redefine the nation’s state-driven growth model and to reverberate in economies far beyond China’s borders.
尽管最近的经济数据显示，中国的经济增速正下降到十多年来的最低水平，但中国仍在推动大范围的的金融改革行动。而人民币新出现的这种波动性和不确定性，只是上述改革的领域之一。如果这些改革得以实施，它们将可能改变中国由政府驱动的增长模式，甚至对与中国相距遥远的经济体产生影响。
A risk for companies and countries that do business with China is not that Beijing will balk at restructuring its economy if growth slows beyond a certain point; it is that policy makers will stay the course.
与中国合作的公司和国家所面临的风险，并不是当增速下降超出了一定范围之后，中国政府不愿实施经济改革；而是决策者坚持这么做。
Over the years, China’s investors and trade partners have come to rely on what amounts to a “Beijing put,” an option that provides assurance that a minimum level of growth will be attained. When the country looked set to fall short, the government would intervene to prime the pumps — freeing up credit, introducing subsidies and otherwise ensuring that China avoided any real economic pain and remained on track as the world’s fastest-growing major economy.
过去几年，中国的投资者和贸易伙伴一直依赖一种叫“北京看跌”(Beijing put)的期权，这种期权能确保最低限度的增长。出现增长乏力时，政府会介入并提供支持——放松信贷、提供补贴，或者用其他方式确保中国避开任何真正的经济困境，继续保持在世界上增长最快的主要经济体的轨道上。
Yet in the face of apparently slowing growth, this implicit guarantee is showing signs of fraying. Markets around the world are growing worried, from Australian iron ore miners to the luxury fashion houses of Europe to American scrap exporters.
然而，面对经济增速的明显下滑，这种默认的保证出现了瓦解的迹象。从澳大利亚的铁矿石厂，欧洲的时尚奢侈品牌，到美国的废金属出口商，全球的市场都越发感到忧虑。
Take copper, where global prices have fallen sharply in recent weeks. This is partly the result of concerns that growth is slowing in China, which accounts for more than 40 percent of global consumption of the metal. But the falling prices represent another, bigger fear — one that focuses on the role copper plays in China’s huge shadow finance sector and the realization that Beijing will not always be there with a bailout.
以铜为例，最近几周，全球铜价出现了暴跌。其中一个原因是对中国经济增速下滑的担忧。全球超过40%的铜是中国消耗的。但铜价的不断下跌代表着另一种更大的担忧——这种担忧来自于铜在中国庞大的影子金融领域中的角色，以及对中国政府并不总是会拿出救助方案的恍然大悟。
Many Chinese companies and investors buy copper they have no intention of using. Instead, companies that otherwise have difficulty securing traditional loans will purchase copper from overseas suppliers by using letters of credit issued by banks, which only require a deposit of around 15 percent of the value of the goods being purchased, according to analysts.
许多中国公司和投资者购买自己并不需要使用的铜。那些难以通过传统方式获得贷款的公司，会使用银行发行的信用证从海外供应商那里购买铜。获得信用证仅需要在银行存有相当于所购买商品价值15%左右的存款。
The Chinese importer then parks the shipment of copper in a duty-free warehouse and uses it as collateral to secure a bank loan at favorable rates, the proceeds from which are used to make higher-yielding investments. When the letter of credit comes due, usually in three to six months, the importer cashes out of the financial investment or sells the copper.
然后，中国进口商会把铜存放在免税仓库，将其作为抵押，以便从银行获得利率优惠的贷款，这么做带来的收益会被用来进行收益率更高的投资。信用证通常会在三个月至半年后到期，这时，进口商会将金融投资变现，或把铜卖掉。
This month, a small producer of solar panels based in Shanghai failed to pay the interest on a bond worth 1 billion renminbi, or $163 million. It was the first default in China’s onshore corporate bond market in recent history, and it sent shock waves through global copper markets.
本月，总部位于上海的一家小型太阳能组件生产商未能支付一笔债券的利息。该债券价值10亿人民币，约合1.63亿美元。这是中国国内企业债券市场近年来的首例违约，给全球铜市场造成了冲击。
Investors are worried that Chinese buyers who imported copper purely for financing purposes could be forced to sell, and prices of the metal have plummeted on fears that hundreds of thousands of tons of copper could begin to flood global markets as a result. As of Friday, benchmark three-month copper contracts closed at $6,469 per ton on the London Metal Exchange, down more than 8 percent from March 6, the day before the panel maker, the Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company, defaulted. Chaori’s default “was probably the trigger” for the slide in global copper prices, said Helen Lau, a senior metals and mining analyst at UOB Kay Hian in Hong Kong.
投资者担心，纯粹为了金融目的而进口铜的中国买家会被迫出售铜。因为担心可能会有数十万吨铜涌入全球市场，铜价已骤跌。周五，伦敦金属交易所(London Metal Exchange)三月期铜合同基准价收于每吨6469美元，同上海超日太阳能科技有限公司违约的前一天3月6日的价格相比，跌幅超过8%。新加坡大华继显(UOB Kay Hian)驻香港的金属和矿业高级分析师刘晓慧(Helen Lau)说，超日的违约“可能会引发”全球铜价下跌。
“Before, people still had wishful thinking that the government would bail out whatever, but now?” Ms. Lau said. “One default can lead to another. People are really scared.”
“要在以前，人们还可以满怀希望地想，政府反正都会救助的，但现在呢？”刘晓慧说。“一起违约会引发另一起。人们真的害怕了。”
So far, the Chinese leadership is showing no signs that it shares those fears. Indeed, analysts have said that allowing a struggling company to default instead of rushing in with a government bailout is a necessary form of near-term pain if China’s 8.5 trillion renminbi corporate bond market is to mature and develop over the long term.
迄今为止，中国领导层还没表现出有这些担心的迹象。实际上，分析人士表示，中国价值8.5万亿人民币的企业债券市场若要成熟和长远发展，政府不急于救助，经历不景气企业违约这种短痛是有必要的。