ATYRAU, Kazakhstan — On the northern reaches of the Caspian Sea, not far from this old Soviet town known for its oil and sturgeon, lies a vast new oil find, the biggest outside the Middle East. China was rebuffed when it asked for a stake 10 years ago.
哈萨克斯坦阿特劳——在里海的北部，距离这座以石油和鲟鱼闻名的前苏联城镇不远的地方，蕴藏着一个新的大型油田，其储量在中东以外居于首位。10年前中国请求分一杯羹时，遭到了拒绝。
But when the pumps finally started this month, the China National Petroleum Corporation had won a share in the project, known as Kashagan, and President Xi Jinping was in the region recently to celebrate, another indication that China’s influence has eclipsed even Russia’s across the former Soviet republics of Central Asia.
但在本月油泵终于开动之时，中国石油天然气集团公司已经在这个名为卡沙干油田(Kashagan)的项目中，赢得了部分股权，中国国家主席习近平最近也造访这一地区以示庆贺。中国在前苏联中亚加盟共和国的影响力由此可见一斑，俄罗斯相比黯然失色。
China’s urgent quest for energy is the main driver of its strategic interest in a region whose proximity allows huge reserves of oil and gas to be moved overland through Chinese-built pipelines rather than by ship through American-dominated sea lanes from the Middle East.
中国迫切需要能源，这决定了它在该地区的战略利益。作为近邻，大量的石油和天然气得以通过中国建造的陆上管道输送，而无需通过船只，从中东地区经由美国控制的海上航路运往中国。
In the long term, analysts say, China’s economic ties with Central Asia could liberate it from any concern that the United States could use its superior naval power to enforce a sea blockade, should relations ever deteriorate to the point of confrontation.
长远来看，分析人士认为，中国与中亚地区的经济联系，能够让中亚不用再担心一旦与美国的关系恶化到对抗的地步，美国会动用其强大的海军力量进行海上封锁。
Here in Kazakhstan, the most prosperous of the former Soviet republics, Mr. Xi formalized the $5 billion deal for Kashagan, which for the first time places China in a consortium alongside the big international players: Exxon Mobil, Shell, Total and the Italian company ENI.
哈萨克斯坦是这几个前苏联加盟共和国中最繁荣的一个。在哈萨克斯坦，习近平正式确认了在卡沙干项目中50亿美元的交易，首次使中国跻身国际石油巨头的行列，与埃克森美孚(Exxon Mobil)、壳牌(Shell)、道达尔(Total)和意大利埃尼集团(ENI)共同开发项目。
In Turkmenistan, Mr. Xi opened a new onshore gas field, the second biggest in the world, one that the Western energy companies had been vying for, but that will now send gas through a Chinese-built, 1,100-mile pipeline that stretches all the way to Shanghai.
在土库曼斯坦，习近平参加了一处新的陆上气田的开工仪式。该气田储量居全球第二，是许多西方能源公司激烈争夺的目标，但这个气田将通过中国建造的长达1100英里（约合1770公里）的管线，将天然气一直输送到上海。
In less-affluent Uzbekistan, China has become the country’s second-largest trade partner. And in energy-poor Kyrgyzstan, Mr. Xi was the center of attention at the China-bankrolled Shanghai Cooperation Organization annual meeting, pushing President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to the side in the group photo.
在不那么富裕的乌兹别克斯坦，中国已经成为该国第二大贸易伙伴。在能源匮乏的吉尔吉斯斯坦召开的，由中国赞助的上海合作组织(Shanghai Cooperation Organization)年会上，习近平成为关注的焦点。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在领导人的合影中被挤到了旁边的位置。
China’s increasing role in the region not only has surpassed Russia’s, analysts said, but has been buttressed by the United States’ waning influence as it winds down the war in Afghanistan. Washington, once eager to bolster the presence of big Western oil companies as a way to trim the power of Russia, has receded on that front, too.
分析人士认为，中国在该地区不断增强的影响力已经超越了俄罗斯，而且由于美国在阿富汗无心恋战，影响力正在削弱，进一步提升了中国的地位。华盛顿一度积极支持大型西方石油企业在该地区开展业务，以削弱俄罗斯的实力，但在这条战线上华盛顿也退却了。
“China has a very good instrument here — a lot of money and very good conditions on credit,” said Dosym A. Satpayev, director of the Kazakhstan Risk Assessment Group, as he dined in an upscale restaurant in Almaty. “Russia doesn’t have that. The influence of Russia has decreased in the last 15 years.”
“中国有很好的条件——资金雄厚而且信贷支持的条件很优惠，”哈萨克斯坦风险评估集团(Kazakhstan Risk Assessment Group)总监多瑟姆·A·萨特帕耶夫(Dosym A. Satpayev)在阿拉木图的一家高档餐厅就餐时谈到。“俄罗斯不具备那些条件。在过去15年，俄罗斯的影响力已经减弱。”
Kazakhstan is a founding member of the customs union that Mr. Putin engineered in 2010 to try to knit the former Soviet states together in an economic community. But Mr. Putin’s pressure has failed to stem China’s rise, Mr. Satpayev said. In Kazakhstan, China is now considered the largest foreign oil producer, said Erica S. Downs, an energy analyst at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
普京为了将前苏联的加盟国纳入一个经济共同体中，在2010年建立了一个关税同盟，哈萨克斯坦是这个关税同盟的创始会员国。但普京的压力没能阻止中国的崛起，萨特帕耶夫说道。在哈萨克斯坦，人们认为在外国油企当中，中国企业在石油生产方面占有最大的份额，华盛顿布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)能源问题分析员邓丽嘉(Erica S. Downs)表示。
Until the opening of the Central Asia-China pipeline in 2009, Russia was the biggest customer of natural gas from Turkmenistan. Now China draws energy from two fields in Turkmenistan, having outfoxed Exxon Mobil and Chevron to gain access to a lucrative site called Galkynysh, said Steve LeVine, author of “The Oil and the Glory: The Pursuit of Empire and Fortune on the Caspian Sea.”
到2009年中亚-中国天然气管道(Central Asia-China pipeline)开通前，俄罗斯一直是土库曼斯坦天然气最大的客户。《石油与荣耀：帝国的追求和里海的财富》(The Oil and the Glory: The Pursuit of Empire and Fortune on the Caspian Sea)一书的作者史蒂夫·莱文(Steve LeVine)说，中国战胜埃克斯美孚及雪佛龙(Chevron)，取得了土库曼斯坦一处名为加尔金内什(Galkynysh)的气田利润丰厚的开采权之后，现在可以从土库曼斯坦的两座气田汲取能源。
“Now China has a second gas field in Turkmenistan, and the Turkmen leader is doubling down on Xi,” Mr. LeVine said.
莱文指出，“如今中国在土库曼斯坦掌握了第二块气田，该国领导人也对习近平寄予厚望。”
While energy was uppermost on Mr. Xi’s agenda, it was not China’s exclusive interest, said Altay Abibullayev, spokesman of the Central Communications Service for the president of Kazakhstan.
尽管能源是习近平议事日程上的重中之重，但这不仅仅是关系到中国的利益，隶属于哈萨克斯坦总统的中央通讯局(Central Communications Service)发言人阿尔泰·阿比布拉耶夫(Altay Abibullayev)说道。
“China’s growth is amazing, and we are trying to diversify the investments so that it can be profitable for both sides,” he said.
“中国的发展是惊人的，我们也在尝试实现投资多样化，这样双方均能获利，”他讲道。
Kazakhstan is rapidly expanding its Internet services, and Huawai, China’s huge telecommunications equipment maker, signed a two-year agreement to provide a fourth-generation nationwide network, the Chinese ambassador to Kazakhstan, Le Yucheng, said.
哈萨克斯坦正在迅速拓展其互联网服务。中国驻哈萨克斯坦大使乐玉成表示，中国大型通讯设备制造商华为签订了为期两年的协议，将为该国提供覆盖全国的第四代通信网络。
In strikingly warm language, Mr. Xi spoke at the Nazarbayev University in Astana about a Chinese-financed new Silk Road that would run from China through Central Asia to Europe.
在阿斯塔纳的纳扎尔巴耶夫大学(Nazarbayev University)发表演讲时，习近平热情洋溢地讲到中国出资的新丝绸之路项目，它将从中国横跨中亚，直抵欧洲。
It is a theme that the United States used to invoke, too, with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton talking in 2011 about a north-south Silk Road that would connect the Central Asian nations to Afghanistan by rail and road. But little is heard of that now. In Mr. Xi’s vision, China’s east-west Silk Road is seen as a more natural fit than Mrs. Clinton’s notion because the Chinese route retraces the ancient trade routes. “This is practical cooperation,” Mr. Xi said as President Nursultan Nazarbayev sat next to him on the podium at Nazarbayev University.
这也曾是美国曾经谈论过的话题。美国国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在2011年提出建立一条南北向的丝绸之路，通过铁路和公路把阿富汗和中亚各国连接起来，但现在鲜有提及。在习近平来看，中国提出的东西向的丝绸之路比克林顿的想法更加恰当，因为中方规划的路线回溯了古代的商道。习在纳扎尔巴耶夫大学的演讲中谈到，“我们要大力加强务实合作。”而哈萨克斯坦总统努尔苏丹·纳扎尔巴耶夫(Nursultan Nazarbayev)当时就坐在主席台上，习近平的身旁。
It is not all plain sailing for China in Central Asia. There are fears, bordering on xenophobia, some Kazakhs say, of a hugely populated and rich China, and the angst is particularly keen in Kazakhstan, a place of only 16 million people in a land larger than Western Europe.
中国在中亚并非一帆风顺。对于一个人口众多且十分富有的中国，一些哈萨克人表示，他们感到恐惧，甚至近似仇视。在仅有1600万人口，但国土面积超过西欧的哈萨克斯坦，焦虑情绪尤其突出。
China was forced to accept the Kazakhstan government’s limits on Chinese workers. That holds back even more Chinese investment in Kazakhstan, said a Chinese manager in Atyrau.
中国被迫接受了哈萨克斯坦政府对中国工人数量的限制。这会制约中国在哈萨克斯坦的进一步投资，阿特劳的一位中方经理表示。
Whether Kashagan turns out to be a real prize for China remains a question. China has coveted the oil at Kashagan since it was discovered in 2000.
现在还无法确定，卡沙干能否真的成为给予中国的奖赏。2000年在卡沙干发现石油后，中国一直垂涎。
Efforts by the China National Offshore Oil Company and Sinopec to join the Western-led consortium in 2003 were rejected because the founding companies believed the field would be so productive they wanted it all for themselves, said Edward C. Chow, senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former executive with the Chevron Corporation.
中国海洋石油总公司和中国石化在2003年想要加入西方企业主导的集团，但努力受挫。建立该集团的企业当时认为油田产量巨大，想统统据为己有，国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)高级研究员、雪佛龙公司前任高管爱德华·C·周(Edward C. Chow)提到。
The Chinese revived their interest last year when Texas-based ConocoPhillips decided to sell its share back to Kazakhstan. At first, it appeared India’s Oil and Natural Gas Corporation would buy ConocoPhillips’s share. But at a meeting between Mr. Xi and Mr. Nazarbayev in China in the spring, the Kazakh leader said he preferred China to India, and he handed Beijing a prime role in the project, Indian and Chinese officials said.
总部位于德克萨斯州的康菲石油公司(ConocoPhillips)去年决定出售其在哈萨克斯坦的石油股份，中国再次产生了兴趣。一开始，印度石油天然气公司(Oil and Natural Gas Corporation)似乎有意购买康菲的股份。但中印两国官员透露，今年春天，习近平和纳扎尔巴耶夫在中国会面后，后者表示，在中国和印度之间，他更中意中国，并这让北京在这个项目中掌握了重要角色。
Although the early oil at Kashagan has begun to flow, the Western oil companies remain frustrated at the enormous technical difficulties caused by the depth of the oil in the seabed, and the high sulfur content of the oil, Mr. Chow said. The companies are also disheartened by the more than $40 billion expense so far for relatively low initial output of 375,000 barrels a day, he said.
虽然卡沙干油田已经开始产油，但爱德华·周指出，石油在海床里蕴藏位置的深度，以及原油中含硫量高的问题，带来了巨大的技术难题，这些困难仍然困扰着西方石油公司。他说，先期投入了400多亿美元，但每天37.5万桶的初始产量却相对较低，也很让人灰心。
Yet, China is well positioned for a bigger role, including directing the oil to China rather than to the West when more production becomes available, he said.
但他认为，中国目前处于有利位置，可以发挥更大的作用，包括在将来产量增加之后，把石油输往中国，而不是西方。
Indeed, Mr. Nazarbayev, 73, a former Communist Party chief from the Soviet era, appears to have cultivated a special relationship with Mr. Xi, 60, China’s new Communist Party secretary-general. They spent 14 hours together during Mr. Xi’s visit, including some informal sessions: breakfast as they flew between cities in Kazakhstan, and a nighttime get-together at Mr. Xi’s hotel in Astana, Mr. Le said.
今年73岁的纳扎尔巴耶夫，曾在苏联时期担任共产党书记。他似乎确实与60岁的新任中国共产党总书记习近平，培养出了特别的感情。乐玉成提到，在习近平访问期间，他们在一起度过了14个小时，其中包括一些非正式的活动，如在哈萨克斯坦的不同城市之间乘飞机旅行时共进早餐；在阿斯塔纳习近平下榻的饭店晚上小聚。
“They drank vodka together, and talked a lot,” he said.
他说，“他们共饮伏特加，谈了许多。”