During its heyday in the 1940s, the Forbidden City in San Francisco billed itself as “the world’s most famous Chinese nightclub.” A jacketed doorman greeted visitors outside, drawing them into the club’s grand interior, with its rich tapestries and Mandarin-collared bartenders. On the bandstand sat a large gold Buddha looking down on the audience, which often included celebrities like Bob Hope, Rita Hayworth and Lauren Bacall. Tourists from the Midwest were there, too, lured by articles in Life and Look magazines, and by promises of the club’s “exotic splendor” and “all-star Chinese floor show.”
旧金山的“紫禁城”在20世纪40年代全盛时期自称为“全世界最有名的中国夜总会”。身穿西装的门卫在外面迎接客人，把他们引进富丽堂皇的室内，随处可见豪华的挂毯和身穿中式立领上衣的酒保。音乐演奏台上有一尊巨大的金佛像俯视着观众。鲍勃·霍普(Bob Hope)、丽塔·海华丝(Rita Hayworth)和劳伦·白考尔(Lauren Bacall)等名人经常光顾，来自中西部的游客看过《生活》(Life)和《看》(Look)等杂志的报道，也会来这里参观，夜总会承诺的“异国奇景”和“全明星中式夜总会表演”诱惑着他们。
Once the show started, however, patrons looking for exotic entertainment found young, mostly Chinese-American performers dancing the Charleston and the shim sham. Larry Ching (“the Chinese Frank Sinatra”) and Toy Yat Mar (“the Chinese Sophie Tucker”) sang the latest pop tunes and Broadway standards, backed by a six-piece band. Other performers played up the disconnect between audience expectations and reality, beginning their acts dressed in Chinese robes before stripping down to showgirl outfits. For the three nightly floor shows, the music could run the gamut from “Begin the Beguine” to Bing Crosby, from sambas to polkas.
不过，演出一开始，追求异国情调的宾客们便只能看到年轻的表演者（大都是华裔美国人）大跳查尔斯登舞和shim sham踢踏舞。被誉为“中国弗兰克·辛纳塔(Frank Sinatra)”的拉里·秦（Larry Ching，音译）和被誉为“中国苏菲·塔克(Sophie Tucker)”的Toy Yat Mar演唱最时新的流行歌和百老汇标准曲，有一支六人乐队伴奏。其他表演者卖力的表演进一步加剧了观众的期待与现实之间的鸿沟——一演员们穿着中式长袍登场，然后脱掉长袍，露出里面的歌舞女郎服装。每晚有三场演出，音乐从《开始跳比根舞》(Begin the Beguine)到平·克劳斯比(Bing Crosby)，从桑巴到波尔卡。
Growing up in San Francisco’s Chinatown during the 1960s, the filmmaker Arthur Dong recalled walking by the once-grand Forbidden City as a boy. The place, the brainchild of the owner and entrepreneur Charlie Low, had turned into an adults-only joint by then, its original concept done in by a glut of copycats and by the rise of much racier topless entertainment in the nearby North Beach area. But the club, which would close in 1970, still had black-and-white photographs from those glory days posted outside. Mr. Dong had never seen anything like it before: dancers and singers and showgirls, dressed in taffeta gowns and smart suits, every one of them Asian-American.
20世纪60年代，导演曾奕田(Arthur Dong)在旧金山的唐人街长大，他回忆自己小时候曾经路过“紫禁城”，当时它还非常豪华。它的创意来自其所有者，实业家查理·罗（Charlie Low，音译），当时已经成为禁止儿童入内的场所。由于大量模仿者出现，乃至附近北岸地区兴起的更加淫荡的半裸体娱乐，紫禁城的最初理念已告失败，最终于1970年关门大吉，但在60年代，门外还张贴着它全盛时期的黑白照片。曾奕田从来没见识过这样的东西：歌舞演员和跳舞女郎，穿着塔夫绸长袍和漂亮的西装，所有人都是亚裔美国人。
Inspired by that childhood memory, Mr. Dong wrote “Forbidden City, USA: Chinese American Nightclubs, 1936-1970,” published this weekend by DeepFocus Productions. Mr. Dong, whose award-winning trilogy of documentaries about discrimination against gays includes “Coming Out Under Fire,” began researching the clubs while working on his 1989 documentary, “Forbidden City, U.S.A.” “I love the big band era, I love Busby Berkeley musicals,” he said. “And the fact that these were Chinese-Americans doing this made it even that much more exciting.”
受到童年记忆启发，曾奕田开始撰写《美国紫禁城：中式美国夜总会，1936-1970》(Forbidden City, USA: Chinese American Nightclubs, 1936-1970)，本周末由“深切关注”出版社(DeepFocus Productions)出版。曾奕田曾拍摄以同性恋歧视为主题的三部曲纪录片并获奖，其中包括《在炮火下出柜》(Coming Out Under Fire)，他是在拍摄1989年发行的《美国紫禁城》(Forbidden City, U.S.A.)这一纪录片时开始研究夜总会的。“我非常迷恋那个时代，我喜欢巴斯比·伯克利(Busby Berkeley)的音乐剧，”他说，“知道有华裔美国人也在表演这个就更让人兴奋了。”
As Mr. Dong met with the performers and pored through their scrapbooks, his collection of memorabilia began to grow. He found matchbooks emblazoned with dancing girls (the Wongettes) and dragons, and magazine articles describing the “alluring Asiatics” and “Oriental eyefuls” that worked the clubs.
曾奕田会见了那些表演者，悉心研究他们的相册和剪贴簿，他搜集来的大事记愈来愈多。他发现了装饰着跳舞女郎（名叫“Wongettes”的中国团体）和龙的图案的纸板火柴盒，还有描写俱乐部里“迷人的亚洲杂耍”和“东方风情”的杂志文章。
In his home in the Silver Lake neighborhood here, Mr. Dong, 60, spoke recently about his finds, which he keeps in plastic sleeves inside neatly marked binders. Over three decades, he has amassed what may be the world’s largest collection of Chinese nightclub memorabilia, more than 1,000 pieces in all. About 400 of them appear in the book; 225 are in an exhibition at the San Francisco Public Library’s Jewett Gallery, which opened on Saturday and runs through July 6. “It’s become this obsession,” he said.
曾奕田现年60岁，住在银湖附近，最近，他谈起自己的这些发现（他把这些资料都放在塑料文件夹里，用档案夹整齐地装好）。30年来，他一直致力于收集中国夜总会的纪念物，共有1000多件物品，可能是全世界最丰富的收藏。其中400件出现在他的书中，225件在旧金山公共图书馆的朱厄特画廊展出，展览于周六开幕，将持续到7月6日。“我为它痴迷，”他说。
Mr. Dong discovered seven nightclubs in San Francisco, as well as a lone outpost in New York, the China Doll, where patrons could indulge in pagoda punches and Tibet coolers “fit for a Buddha.” Owned and operated by Tom Ball, a white stage producer, China Doll played up the Asian angle in ways unseen in the San Francisco clubs, which were all Chinese owned. “At the Forbidden City, you had the Gershwin revue and the Gold Rush show,” Mr. Dong said. “At China Doll, you had shows like ‘Maid in China’ and ‘Slant-Eyed Scandals.’ ”
曾奕田发现，旧金山有七个这样的夜总会，在纽约也有孤零零的一个“前哨”，名叫“中国娃娃”(China Doll)。光临“中国娃娃”的主顾们可以享受宝塔潘趣酒和“能给菩萨喝”的西藏冷饮。这里的所有者和经营者是一个白人舞台剧监制，名叫汤姆·鲍尔(Tom Ball)。“中国娃娃”的亚洲特色在全部由华人经营的旧金山夜店里是看不到的。“在‘紫禁城’，有格什温(Gershwin)的滑稽剧和淘金潮风格的演出，”曾奕田说，“而‘中国娃娃’里都是《中国少女》(Maid in China)和《斜视丑闻》(Slant-Eyed Scandals)之类。”
Mr. Dong also discovered that a lot of the performers at these “all-Chinese” cabarets were not really Chinese. Many were Japanese-American, including the M.C. Pat Morita (“The Karate Kid”) and the comedian Jack Soo, who would go on to star in “Flower Drum Song,” the 1958 Rodgers and Hammerstein musical inspired by the Forbidden City nightclub.
曾奕田还发现，在那些“全中国”的歌舞表演阵容中，有很多演员其实不是中国人。其中很多都是日裔美国人，包括在《功夫梦》(The Karate Kid)中饰演角色的M·C·帕特·莫利塔(M.C. Pat Morita)；以及喜剧演员杰克·苏(Jack Soo)，他后来在1958年的《花鼓歌》(Flower Drum Song)中饰演角色。这部音乐剧是罗杰斯与哈默斯坦恩(Rodgers and Hammerstein)合写的，灵感来自“紫禁城”夜总会。
Portuguese on his father’s side and Hawaiian and Chinese on his mother’s, the singer Jimmy Borges was required to change his stage name to the more Chinese-sounding Jimmy Jay when he began working at the Forbidden City in 1958. His repertoire included pop songs, Cole Porter hits and Broadway tunes. “Most of our tourists came in buses, and they would come and watch the Oriental people do something they’d never seen before,” Mr. Borges, 78, said in a phone interview. “It was almost like a zoo.”
歌手吉米·博格斯(Jimmy Borges)的父亲是葡萄牙人，母亲则有夏威夷与中国血统，1958年来“紫禁城”工作时，他被要求改成更中国化的艺名“吉米·杰”(Jimmy Jay)。他的演出曲目包括流行歌，科尔·波特(Cole Porter)的金曲和百老汇歌曲。“大多数顾客都是坐着大巴赶来，想看东方人做点什么他们没见过的东西，”现年78岁的博格斯在电话采访中说，“简直就像动物园一样。”
One night, while singing Peggy Lee’s hit version of “Fever,” Mr. Borges strolled past a woman in the audience. “She’s smiling, but she can’t believe what she’s seeing,” he said. “So she nudges her husband and says, ‘Oh Charlie, he sings just like a white man.’ ”
一天晚上，博格斯在演唱佩吉·李的当红金曲《狂热》(Fever)时，走过观众中的一个女人身边。“她微笑着，不敢相信眼前看到的东西，”博格斯说。“于是她推了推身边的丈夫说，‘你看，查理，他唱得像个白人一样。’”
Coby Yee, a dancer, was a headliner at the Forbidden City when her family bought the place from Charlie Low in 1962. “I’d come out in an Oriental-type robe, then take that off, and I had a little samba costume under it,” she said in a phone interview. “So then I did a samba.” Billed at the time as “the Chinese Gypsy Rose Lee,” Ms. Yee would go through three or four costume removals, each layer artfully placed one on top of the other on her 98-pound frame, before the show’s end. “Louis Armstrong’s wife came in and wanted to meet me,” she said. “I came out from backstage and she said, ‘Honey, you out-Gypsied Gypsy.’ ”
1962年，舞蹈演员科比·易（Coby Yee音译）的家人从查理·娄手中买下了“紫禁城”，此后她曾在“紫禁城”挂过头牌。“我得穿着一件东方式长袍走出去，然后脱掉它，露出里面的桑巴舞衣，”她在电话采访中说，“然后我就跳桑巴。”当时她在海报上的名字是“中国的吉普赛玫瑰李”，每次演出都会在舞台上脱三四次衣服，每一层衣服都精心衬托出她98磅的身材。“路易·阿姆斯特朗(Louis Armstrong)的老婆也来看我，”她说，“我从后台出来，她就说，‘宝贝，你比吉普赛还吉普赛。’”
For decades, Ms. Yee, who declined to give her age, kept her dancing a closely guarded secret from friends and acquaintances. “Back then, the Chinese thought that anybody that showed an ankle was bad,” she said. When Mr. Dong approached her in the late 1980s to participate in his documentary, she declined. “I was worried that if people found out I took my clothes off onstage, they might think of me differently,” she said. “But everybody said to me: ‘Are you kidding? What you did was so tame.’ ”
易女士拒绝透露自己的年龄，几十年来，她从未对朋友和熟人透露她跳舞的这段经历。“在那时，中国人觉得露出脚踝都不行，”她说。20世纪80年代末，曾奕田找到她，请她参加自己的纪录片，她拒绝了。“我担心人们发现我在台上脱衣服，从此会以不一样的眼光看我，”她说。“但大家都对我说：‘你在开玩笑吗？你做的事实在太普通了。’”
A chorus girl at the Forbidden City from 1959 to 1962, Ivy Tam said that the place felt like a family, that dancers looked after one another’s kids backstage while their moms performed up front. “Our children all grew up together,” she said. It was a glamorous time, she recalls, a chance to dance in a fancy nightclub, just like in the MGM musicals she watched in Hong Kong when she was young.
1959到1962年期间，艾维·谭(Ivy Tam)曾在“紫禁城”做过伴唱，她说那里就像一个家庭，在后台，舞蹈演员们都帮助其他上台的演员们带孩子。“我们的孩子们都是在一起长大的，”她说。她回忆，那是一段迷人的时光，可以在一个豪华夜总会跳舞，感觉就像她小时候在香港看过的那些米高梅音乐剧一样。
Ms. Tam, 79, was also the boss’s wife, the fourth Mrs. Charlie Low, which, she admits, might have colored her perceptions of the times. “The others might see things differently,” she said. “I was in the show because I loved to dance, not because I wanted to make a living.”
谭女士现年79岁，是老板查理·罗的第四任夫人，她承认，这可能会美化她对那段时期的认识。“其他人的看法可能有所不同，”她说，“我登台表演是因为喜欢舞蹈，不是为了谋生。”