Across China, the start of October is synonymous with Golden Week, the public holiday commemorating the founding of the People’s Republic. But since the launch of Beijing Design Week in 2011, it’s also become an occasion to celebrate the country’s burgeoning design scene. Running from Sept. 26 – Oct. 3, the fourth edition of BJDW will be as massive and diverse as Beijing itself, featuring hundreds of events ranging from straight-laced industry forums at China Millennium Monument to experimental sound art on city buses. New additions this year include a design film festival, an original brand and e-commerce platform promoting Chinese designers, and Plug-IN Stations, architect-designed kiosks to help visitors and locals engage. Here, a selection of highlights from the Design Hop program, which spans four areas of the capital.
在中国，10月的开头是黄金周——国庆公共假期。不过，从2011年北京设计周启动起，人们也在这个时候庆祝该国蓬勃发展的设计产业。第四届北京设计周从9月26日至10月3日举办，它将和北京这座城市一样宏大而多样化。设计周包括几百场活动，从中华世纪坛严谨的行业论坛到城市巴士上的实验声音艺术。今年新增的项目包括设计电影节、推广中国设计师的一个原创品牌和电子商务平台，植入小站，建筑师设计的促进游客和当地人交流的亭子。下面，我们精选出这场设计之旅的一些重点活动，它们在北京的四个地方举行。
Dashilar Alley
大栅栏新街景
One of the few surviving traditional neighborhoods, this ancient mercantile hub just south of Tiananmen Square is a case study of design-driven urbanism in action. In a long-term pilot program, these alleys and storefronts are being sustainably redeveloped by creative businesses like the design studio Re-Up and the cafe Spoonful of Sugar, which will debut prototypes of public facilities for the neighborhood alongside a “conscious food and wine event.” Other highlights will include the touring architectural zine exhibition Archizines and its China-specific companion show Paper Manifestoes, curated by WAI Architecture Think Tank. The U.K. research platform Making Futures will also stage a miniconference in the spectacularly restored Quanyechang (Bazaar) from 1906 and its installation, “Trapped Tower” by BaO Architects, reflecting on questions of craft, sustainability and change.
大栅栏是北京仅存的几个传统区域之一，这个古老的商业中心位于天安门广场南侧，为当前以设计为动力的城市生活方式提供了个案。作为一个长期试点项目，这些胡同和店面不断被创意公司重新开发，比如设计工作室Re-Up和壹勺子糖咖啡馆(Spoonful of Sugar)，它将首次展示为该区域设计的公共装置模型，并提供“创意有机饮食体验”。其他重点活动将包括建筑同人志巡回展(Archizines)以及它在中国的独有合作展览——“纸本宣言”，策划者是WAI Architecture Think Tank。英国研究平台Making Futures将在壮丽修复的劝业场（始创于1906年）组织一场迷你会议并展示装置作品“工艺塔”(Trapped Tower)，反映工艺、持续性和变化方面的问题，设计者是BaO Architects。
751 Int’l Design Festival at 751 D-Park
751国际设计节
Like its more famous next-door neighbor 798 Art District, 751 D-Park is an industrial relic turned creative center. The former power plant will be overrun with 3-D printing enthusiasts during the Maker Carnival (Oct. 2-3). It will also host 751D-Lab, a lab for elder statesmen like Songtao and Guo Pei to mentor younger designers, and a new furniture collection by Li Naihan (presented by Gallery All). Nearby, at the UCCA Museum, the exhibition “Shanshui” by MAD Architects showcases the sleek futurism that made the firm’s founder, Ma Yansong, famous; and Dutch architects MARS + MORE present a proposal for creative clusters across China, with contributions from experts at OMA and McKinsey.
和它的邻居、著名的798艺术区一样，751D·PARK北京时尚设计广场也是一个由废弃工业区转变来的创意中心。在创客嘉年华(Maker Carnival)期间（10月2日至3日），这个从前的电厂将挤满3-D打印爱好者。它还将举办751D-Lab——它是宋涛和郭培等行业领军设计师指导年轻设计师的实验室。这里还将展示李鼐含设计的新家具系列（由凹空间策划）。在附近的尤伦斯当代艺术中心，MAD建筑事务所举办的“山水城市”展将展示时髦的未来主义，该公司的创始人马岩松正是因此声名鹊起。荷兰建筑公司MARS + MORE将提出在中国设立创意群的提议，大都会建筑事务所和麦肯锡公司的专家对此亦有贡献。
CCD – the Community in the Caochangdi Arts District
草场地共同体
The elegant red-and-gray brick studios of the Caochangdi arts district, an area that was until recently farmland, will host one stop on Maya Rudolph and Wang Xiaowei’s Loop Station, an experimental radio project activated by riding Beijing’s public buses while streaming the audio pieces. The star designer Li Naihan will present Pop-Up Factory, a temporary experiment by A4 Studios to manufacture simple products for the local community with little to no distribution or storage costs. Slightly more decadent products will be found in “Neo-T’ang Dynasty Style,” by BiruO, a design collective “addicted to classicism and futurism” who will share their pop riffs on Tang aesthetics in the redesign of furniture, home décor, tableware and jewelry.
不久之前，草场地艺术区还是农田。如今这里变成了优雅的红灰砖墙工作室。马娅·鲁道夫(Maya Rudolph)和王筱玮的实验性广播项目Loop Station将在这里设立一个植入站。这个项目是在乘坐北京公共巴士时用流媒体播放音频作品。明星设计师李鼐含将展示闪工厂(Pop-Up Factory)，它是A4工作室的一项临时实验，为当地社区生产简单的产品，几乎或完全没有物流或仓储成本。夶如〇的“搞名唐”展示的是更颓废一点的产品。夶如〇是一个“痴迷于古典主义和未来主义”的设计团体，他们将分享自己以唐朝美学对家具、室内装饰、餐具和首饰等的重新设计。