Confirming the concerns of investors and economists, the Chinese government announced on Wednesday morning that the country’s inflation-adjusted economic output in the first quarter was up 7.4 percent from a year ago — and had risen much less than that, compared with the previous quarter.
中国政府于周三上午公布，扣除通胀因素之后，第一季度中国国内生产总值同比上涨了7.4%，增幅远低于前一季度，这一数字证实了投资者和经济学家对中国经济的担忧。
Beijing officials have set a growth target for the whole year of about 7.5 percent; unlike growth targets in previous years, this year’s target has not been set as a floor, giving the government some political leeway if the final figure falls slightly short. But for the first quarter by itself, the annualized growth rate compared with that in the fourth quarter appears to have been less than 6 percent, economists said.
中国官员已将今年的年度增长目标设定为7.5%；和前些年的增长目标不同，今年的目标未被设为最低下限，这给政府留出了一定的政治余地，以防出现最终数据略低于7.5%的情况。不过，经济学家表示，仅就第一季度而言，与去年第四季度相比的年化环比增长率似乎不足6%。
Sheng Laiyun, a spokesman for the National Bureau of Statistics, said the latest figures nonetheless represented an economy showing considerable strength.
国家统计局新闻发言人盛来运表示，尽管如此，最近的数据依然表明，中国经济保持着相当强劲的增速。
“Despite the economic slowdown, China’s economy is still growing at a medium to high speed,” he said during a news conference in Beijing.
他在北京的新闻发布会上表示，“虽然增速有所回落，但中国经济总体上依然保持了中高速增长。”
Weak exports and a plunge in housing starts, down 27.2 percent from the first quarter of last year, were powerful brakes on growth in the first quarter. A credit squeeze has hurt many developers, as well as smaller exporters that struggle to borrow enough money to finance purchases of raw materials and sales of finished goods.
出口疲软，房地产开工量同比急跌27.2%，这些都大大拖累了第一季度的增长。信贷紧缩伤害了许多开发商，以及竭力借钱购买原材料并销售成品的小出口商。
Troubles in the housing market have also created broad nervousness about the sustainability of high home prices, with small, outlying apartments costing more than an entire decade’s salary for a recent college graduate.
房地产市场的困境还引发了更广泛的不安，让人担忧高房价难以为继。因为目前的高房价，刚毕业的大学生需要拿出十多年的工资，才能在偏远地带购买一套小公寓。
But the service sector, which includes industries like hotels and restaurants and which has emerged as a big job creator in recent years, fared better than expected in the first quarter.
不过，包括酒店、餐饮等行业的服务业在第一季度的表现远远超出了预期。近些年，服务业已成为大量就业机会的创造者。
Louis Kuijs, a China economist in the Hong Kong office of the Royal Bank of Scotland, said the service sector’s resilience and recently announced government initiatives like an acceleration of railroad construction and redevelopment of shantytowns meant it was still possible for economic growth in all of 2014 to meet his forecast of 7.7 percent.
苏格兰皇家银行驻香港的中国经济师高路易(Louis Kuijs)说，考虑到服务业的强韧势头，以及政府最近公布的措施，比如加快铁路建设和棚户区改造，中国2014年的年度经济增速依然有可能达到他所预期的7.7%。
Industrial production, which is not adjusted for inflation, was up 8.8 percent in March from a year ago, the government also announced on Wednesday morning. Retail sales climbed 12.2 percent in March.
中国政府周三上午还宣布，今年3月，未扣除通胀因素的工业生产同比增长8.8%。3月份的零售额增加了12.2%。
Both were weak figures by Chinese standards but suggested some improvement from January and February.
这些数据按中国的标准来看都比较疲弱，但却说明1月和2月的情况有所改善。
Fixed-asset investment for the first three months of the year was 17.6 percent higher than for the first quarter of last year, the weakest year-to-date figure since November 2001, as the home building sector’s troubles offset extensive construction of infrastructure.
今年第一季度的固定资产投资同比增长17.6%，由于低迷的住宅建设抵销了大规模基础设施建设带来的增长，去年同期的固定资产投资数据成为自2001年11月以来最惨淡的第一季度增长数据。
Much of the year-on-year growth in the Chinese economy reflected by the 7.4 percent growth figure released on Wednesday morning was the result of economic expansion that actually took place during the second, third and fourth quarters of last year. Although the United States and many other industrialized countries release annualized economic growth figures for each quarter compared with the previous quarter, China does not provide this statistic, preferring year-on-year figures that show less volatility.
周三上午公布的7.4%增长数据所反映的中国经济同比增长，大部分其实是去年第二、第三及第四季度的经济扩张带来的结果。美国和其他很多工业国家都会公布每一季度的年化环比增长数据，但中国不提供此类数据，更偏爱波动较小的同比数据。
Private economists estimated that the annualized, quarter-on-quarter growth was between 5.2 and 5.7 percent, depending on what seasonal adjustment was used.
民间经济学家们预测，年化环比增长率在5.2%至5.7%之间，这取决于使用的季节性调整。
Some private economists had expected year-on-year growth to be slightly weaker, at 7.3 percent. The Shanghai stock market was up 0.33 percent in the first hour and a half after the figures were released, while the Hong Kong market was up 0.74 percent.
一些民间经济学家曾预测，同比增长数据只有7.3%，比公布的数据稍弱一些。上海股市在数据公布后的一个半小时内上涨了0.33%，香港股市上涨0.74%。
The year-on-year growth of 7.4 percent was the slowest since the third quarter of 2012, also 7.4 percent; the last time year-on-year growth was slower was in the third quarter of 2009, during the global financial crisis, when it was 6.6 percent.
7.4%的同比增长是2012年第三季度以来最缓慢的增幅，该季度的增长也是7.4%。上一次更小的同比增长出现在全球金融危机期间的2009年第三季度，数据为6.6%。