HONG KONG — China’s central bank injected fresh money into the markets on Tuesday, easing the pressure on the financial system and quelling fears about a credit crisis.
香港——周二，为了缓解金融体系压力，消除人们对信用危机的担心，中国央行向市场注入了新的资金。
In response, interest rates in China’s money markets, a crucial source of day-to-day funding for banks, quickly dropped. Rates had surged over the past week, climbing to six-month highs.
随后，中国货币市场——各家银行重要的日常资金来源——的利率迅速下跌。过去一周，利率曾迅速增加，达到了六个月以来的最高水平。
The volatility highlights the challenges the government faces as it looks to overhaul the financial system.
这种动荡的局面突显了中国政府面临的挑战，目前，中国正试图全面改革金融体系。
A plenum meeting of the top Communist Party leadership concluded last month with pledges to deliver on broad new policy mandates that would give the market a larger role in setting the speed and direction of China’s economic development.
上个月，中国共产党最高领导层召开了十八届三中全会。会议承诺出台大量新的政策法规，让市场对中国经济的发展速度和方向发挥更大的决定作用。
In part, that means reining in the country’s sprawling state-owned enterprises, which for the past decade have grown increasingly reliant on cheap and plentiful credit to fund their expansion. At the same time, the government needs to ensure that China’s private companies, which typically struggle to get loans from state-owned banks, can gain access to the money they need to continue growing and creating more jobs.
从某种程度而言，这意味着要对中国规模庞大的国有企业进行控制。过去10年间，这些企业越来越依赖廉价的充足信贷来为它们的扩张提供资金。同时，政府还须确保中国的私营企业能获得继续发展和创造更多就业岗位所需的资金。私营企业通常很难从国有银行获得贷款。
The goal for the central bank, the People’s Bank of China, which is widely regarded as one of the institutions at the forefront of the country’s effort to liberalize the economy, is to experiment where it can with looser rates.
人们广泛认为，中国央行中国人民银行是中国实现经济自由化的牵头机构。中国人民银行的目标是在条件允许的地方进行试验，看看放松利率管制的效果。
China’s ceiling on savings deposit rates, for example, remains in place. This helps ensure that commercial banks do not erode their profitability by raising rates in competition for deposits and that they retain an ample supply of cheap money to lend to state-owned enterprises.
例如，中国并未废除储蓄存款利率上限。这有助于确保商业银行不会为争抢存款而提高利率，进而损伤自身的赢利能力，还能保证它们继续拥有大量的低成本资金供给，用于向国有企业放贷。
China’s money markets, by contrast, do not have the same direct impact on ordinary savers. Instead, it is banks in need of short-term funding — or those engaging in the so-called shadow banking activities of risky, off-balance-sheet financing — that are most vulnerable to swings in money-market interest rates.
相形之下，中国的货币市场对普通储户并没有同样的直接影响。实际上，那些需要短期资金的银行——或者那些从事所谓的影子银行活动，亦即高风险账外融资活动的银行——才最容易受到货币市场利率波动的影响。
“The interest rate environment is kind of a means to an end,” said Arthur Kroeber, the Beijing-based managing director of GaveKal Dragonomics, an economic research firm. “Broadly speaking, the central bank would like to see rates somewhat higher than they were previously as a way of slowing the rate of growth of credit and also redirecting it from the state to the nonstate sector.”
“利率环境是解决问题的一种办法，”经济研究公司龙洲经讯(GaveKal Dragonomics)的驻北京董事总经理葛艺豪(Arthur Kroeber)说。“从大的层面来看，央行希望看到利率出现一定幅度的上涨，从而降低贷款增长的速度，并把贷款从国有部门引向非国有部门。“
One worry is that cheap financing has fueled an aggressive infrastructure expansion, potentially setting the stage for a wave of loan defaults and a severe economic downturn.
担忧之一是，低成本融资促使基础设施建设急剧扩张，可能会引起一轮债务违约，并导致经济出现严重衰退。
A recent report by a Chinese government research group found that China’s local government debt had reached an “alarming level” and posed a significant risk to the country’s fast-growing economy. Two years after analysts began raising concerns about municipal borrowing, Chinese local governments appear to have piled up even more debt, about $3.3 trillion by the end of 2012, perhaps double the level in 2010.
中国政府的一个研究组织最近在报告当中指出，中国地方政府的债务已经达到了“值得警惕的水平”，对中国迅速增长的经济构成了严重威胁。两年前，分析人士曾对地方政府贷款表示担心，而如今，中国地方政府似乎累积了更多的债务，截至2012年年底，债务总额约为3.3万亿，或许比2010年的水平增加了一倍。
But it is unclear just how much debt exists. Analysts say much of the debt is masked by the shadow banking activities.
但是，目前尚不清楚债务总额到底是多少。分析人士说，很多贷款都隐藏在影子银行的活动之中。
To help keep those activities in check, the country’s central bank in recent weeks has started experimenting with unconventional measures to manage interest rates. In early December, the People’s Bank of China stopped using its regularly scheduled open-market operations, the buying and selling of money-market instruments.
为了对这些活动进行遏制，中国央行近几周开始对一些旨在控制利率的非常规措施进行试验。12月初，中国人民银行停止了它的定期公开市场操作，即买卖货币市场工具的活动。
As rates started to rise, China instead provided more than 300 billion renminbi in short-term liquidity to selected, unnamed banks. It then started announcing the efforts via posts on the social messaging service Sina Weibo, which is similar to Twitter.
随着利率开始上涨，中国转而挑选了一些没有公布具体名称的银行，向它们提供了超过3000亿人民币的短期流动性。然后，中国开始在与Twitter类似的社交通讯服务平台新浪微博上发帖，宣布相关努力措施。
But the central bank backed down after rates continued to surge. The People’s Bank of China sold 29 billion renminbi, or $4.8 billion, worth of seven-day reverse repurchase agreements, the official China Securities Journal and other Chinese financial news outlets reported on Tuesday. The cash injection was the first time since Dec. 3 that the central bank had proceeded with its regularly scheduled open-market operations.
但是，在利率继续飙升后，央行开始后退。官方的《中国证券报》和其他一些中国金融新闻机构周二报道称，中国人民银行卖出了价值290亿元人民币，也就是48亿美元的七天期逆回购协议。这次现金注入是央行自12月3日以来首次重启其定期公开市场操作。
Money-market rates fell after the central bank’s open-market operations, which are a more effective and transparent tool than the unconventional measures it tried last week. Rates on the benchmark seven-day repurchase agreement opened at 5.55 percent Tuesday, down sharply from a closing level of 8.9 percent on Monday.
央行进行公开市场操作之后，货币市场利率回跌。同央行上周尝试的非传统措施相比，公开市场操作这个工具更有效，更透明。周二，基准七天期逆回购协议首笔交易报出了5.55%的利率，较周一收盘时的8.9%大幅回落。
By the time markets closed on Tuesday, the average seven-day rate, weighted for trading volumes, was hovering around 6.4 percent. That was down from 8.9 percent on Monday but still high compared with the roughly 4.5 percent earlier this month.
到周二市场收盘时，七天期逆回购协议的交易量加权平均利率在6.4%附近徘徊。同周一的8.9%相比，这个数字有所下降，与本月早些时候4.5%左右的水平相比则依然很高。
The events of the past week signal China’s second credit squeeze of the year. Money-market rates rose to record, double-digit highs in June. In both cases, the central bank’s decision to refrain from the regular provision of liquidity exacerbated seasonal factors.
过去一周的情况标志着中国今年第二次出现银根紧缩。货币市场利率涨至创纪录的水平，6月还曾涨至两位数。两次出现银根紧缩的时候，央行停止定期流动性注入操作的决定都加剧了季节性因素的后果。
Commercial banks typically scramble for money to shore up their balance sheets in order to comply with regulatory requirements that are assessed based on a lender’s financial position at the end of a month, quarter and year. At the same time, demand for cash is high among Chinese companies seeking to settle outstanding payments by the end of the year.
商业银行普遍会争夺现金，支撑各自的资产负债表，以便满足月末、季末和年末的监管要求，判断是否符合要求的依据是出借人的财务状况。同时，需要进行年终结账的中国公司对现金的需求也很高。
Another peak season for demand precedes the Lunar New Year, which will fall on Jan. 31 next year. Analysts expect money markets to remain volatile and liquidity to remain tight until then.
另一个现金需求旺季是明年1月31日农历新年之前的时间。分析人士预计，在那之前，货币市场会持续波动，流动性也会持续紧张。
The central bank, which reports to the State Council — China’s top government cabinet — has drawn scrutiny for the way it has managed expectations of monetary policy in pushing reforms in financial markets.
向中国最高政府机构国务院汇报的央行已经引起了关注，原因是它在推动金融市场改革时对货币政策预期的管理方式。
This time, the expectation was that a traditional uptick in year-end spending as the government settled accounts would keep markets flush with cash. But that fiscal spending has not materialized as expected — a development some commentators attributed to President Xi Jinping’s campaign against ostentatious consumption by government officials. As a result, the stopgap measures the central bank undertook in the past week came up short of what the market needed.
这一次，央行预计的是，年末支出会在政府清账的过程中出现习惯性的上涨，使市场保有充足的现金。但这种财政支出并未像预料中的那样成为现实。部分评论人士认为，这种局面的原因是习近平打击政府官员铺张消费的运动。因此，央行过去一周采取的权宜之计未能满足市场的需求。
Liu Li-gang, the chief economist for greater China at the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, wrote last week in a research note that resorting to unconventional short-term liquidity operations was the central bank’s way of trying to avoid adding too much liquidity to the market.
上周，澳新银行(Australia and New Zealand Banking Group)大中华区首席经济学家刘利刚在一份研究报告中写道，央行之所以试图借助非传统的短期流动性操作，目的是避免为市场增加过多流动性。
“It seems that the central bank thought the large treasury funds injection from the Ministry of Finance in the second half of December would significantly relax the market liquidity,” Mr. Liu wrote.
“央行似乎认为，财政部在12月下半月注入的大量国库资金会显著提升市场的流动性，”刘利刚写道。
“The People’s Bank of China is faced with some serious challenges with rapid unfolding of bottom-up interest rate liberalization and is confused on whether to target volume or rates of liquidity,” Lu Ting, China economist at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote last week in a research note. “With its limited predictability of flows and its insensitivity to market reactions, the People’s Bank of China finds it much more likely than before to make operation mistakes.”
“随着最低利率自由化的迅速展开，中国人民银行面临着一些严峻的挑战，并且举棋不定，不知道自己应该针对流动性的规模，还是针对流动性的利率，”美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)研究中国经济的经济学家陆挺在上周的一份研究报告中写道，“中国人民银行对货币流动的预测能力有限，对市场反应也不敏感，由此看来，它出现操作错误的可能性远远大于以往。”