ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on Tuesday ceremonially broke ground on a $9.59 billion nuclear power complex to be built in Karachi with China’s help, seeking to ease Pakistan’s long-running energy crisis and signaling a new step by China in becoming a top nuclear supplier.
巴基斯坦伊斯兰堡——周二，巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)主持了耗资95.9亿美元（约合584.2亿元人民币）的核电厂的破土仪式，这座由中国在卡拉奇援建的核电厂旨在缓解巴基斯坦旷日持久的能源危机，标志着中国在成为主要核供应商的道路上迈出了新的一步。
The deal, which officials said was still being finalized, is a major new advance in energy cooperation between the two countries, dwarfing previous reactor projects built along with China at Chashma, in Pakistan’s interior. And it establishes a growing counterpoint to a nuclear axis between the United States and India in recent years that Pakistani officials have seen as an irritant and Chinese officials have seen as a geopolitical challenge.
此次协议是两国在能源合作方面一次重大的新进展，令双方此前在巴基斯坦内陆的恰什马建造的核反应堆项目相形见绌。官员们说，此次交易仍有待最后落实。它与美国和印度近些年打造的核轴心构成了越来越强的对峙，巴基斯坦官员一直把美印核轴心视为眼中钉，中国官员则把它视为一种地缘政治挑战。
“The beginning of the 2,200-megawatt power project is indeed a proud moment in the energy history of Pakistan,” Mr. Sharif said at the ceremony, adding that the construction was to be completed in six years. The Chinese ambassador to Pakistan, Sun Weidong, and officials from the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission attended.
谢里夫在动工仪式上说，“2200兆瓦的核能项目开始动工，这的确是巴基斯坦能源史上令人自豪的时刻，”他还说，项目将在六年内竣工。中国驻巴基斯坦大使孙卫东和巴基斯坦原子能委员会(Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission)的官员出席了仪式。
Energy supply remains one of the most pressing concerns in Pakistan, and it was a major issue in the general elections last May, when Mr. Sharif promised in his campaign speeches to end crippling shortages that have hobbled the economy. After taking office, his first visit was to China, where he discussed the nuclear power plant project.
能源供应依然是巴基斯坦最迫切的忧虑之一，在去年5月的大选中，它也是一个主要的议题。当时，谢里夫多次在竞选演讲中承诺，要终结阻碍经济、造成严重后果的能源短缺问题。上任之后，他的首访国是中国，并在访问期间讨论了核电厂项目。
Officials said the new project is to be built around two new-model Chinese ACP-1000 nuclear reactors, with China also providing enriched uranium for fuel.
官员们说，新项目的核心是两座新型的中国产ACP-1000核反应堆，中方还会提供浓缩铀作为燃料。
However, Pakistani officials have provided few details of how they plan to finance it. In September, the International Monetary Fund approved a $6.6 billion loan to help stabilize Pakistan’s struggling economy and tackle the energy crisis.
然而，巴基斯坦官员几乎没有提供筹资计划的细节。今年9月，国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)批准了一笔66亿美元的贷款，协助稳定苦苦挣扎的巴基斯坦经济，应对能源危机。
Mr. Sharif did not mention financing in his speech, but he said that he has assured the Chinese investors that his government “will support them in every way.”
谢里夫在演讲中没有提到项目融资问题，不过他说，他已向中方投资者保证，他领导的政府“将竭尽全力支持他们。”
China has signaled its intent to expand nuclear energy cooperation with Pakistan in joint statements from their leaders, said Zhang Li, an expert on Pakistan at the Institute of South Asian Studies at Sichuan University in southwest China.
位于中国西南的四川大学南亚研究所巴基斯坦问题专家张力说，通过双方领导人的联合声明，中方已表明扩大与巴基斯坦核能合作的意图。
“Both countries have expressed their willingness to expand cooperation in civilian nuclear energy,” Mr. Zhang said in a telephone interview. “In that sense, you didn’t need a crystal ball to see this project coming.”
张力在电话采访中说，“两国都表达了在民用核能方面扩大合作的意愿。从这个意义上说，不用水晶球也可以预知这个项目的出现。”
The new project is not without potential controversy. In the years since China and Pakistan agreed to build the first reactor at Chashma, China has joined both the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and the Nuclear Suppliers Group, an agreement by 47 countries to limit exports of nuclear technology and materials.
新项目并不是没有出现争议的可能。中巴商定在恰什马建立第一座核反应堆之后的几年里，中国加入了《核不扩散条约》(Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty)和核供应国集团(Nuclear Suppliers Group)，该集团是由47个国家达成的协议机制，目的是限制核技术和核原料的出口。
Mr. Zhang said that China is almost certain to deem the new projects as a “grandfathered” extension of the countries’ earlier nuclear deals signed before China joined the Nuclear Suppliers Group. That means China would not consider seeking approval for the reactors from the group, which has few teeth to deal with members who ignore its rules, according to nuclear analysts.
张力说，中国几乎肯定会视这些新项目为双方早些时候在中国加入核供应国集团之前所签署协议的延伸，“不受后来新规的约束”。据核问题分析人士称，这意味着中国不会考虑为这些反应堆寻求该集团的批准，后者几乎无力应对无视其规则的成员。
“My analysis is that this issue won’t trigger too much controversy,” Mr. Zhang said. “The Indian government will certainly respond, but I don’t think that this will fundamentally harm Sino-Indian relations, because it’s not something that has come out of the blue. China and India have exchanged views on this many times.”
“我的分析是，这个问题不会引发太多争议，”张力说，“印度政府肯定会有所反应，但我觉得这不会从根本上影响中印关系，因为它不是突然出现的事情。中国和印度已多次就此事交换意见。”
On the supplier group’s likely response, Mr. Zhang said: “I don’t think the N.S.G. will formally raise this issue, because the experience in the past was that the members would reach an implicit understanding, and so this issue never caused a big fuss in previous N.S.G. meetings.”
关于核供应国集团可能做何反应，张力说：“我觉得NSG不会正式提出这个问题，因为过去的经验是，成员国会达成默契，所以在之前的NSG会议上，这种问题从未闹得沸沸扬扬。”
One of the main events considered to have weakened the Nuclear Suppliers Group, in fact, was the 2005 commercial nuclear deal between the United States and India, which like Pakistan developed nuclear weapons in the face of global pressure. The deal has been a lasting source of outrage for Pakistani officials.
事实上，据信导致核供应国集团削弱的主要事件之一是2005年美国与印度达成的商业核协议，该协议的性质与巴基斯坦在全球压力下研发核武器类似，是激怒巴基斯坦官员的持久源头。
The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not commented on the project with Pakistan. But in the past, it has said that China’s nuclear cooperation with Pakistan is entirely peaceful and comes under International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards.
中国外交部尚未对这一中巴合作项目发表评论。但它曾在过去表示，中国与巴基斯坦之间的核合作完全出于和平目的，并且遵守国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)的条例。
Pakistan has also sought to bridge its energy shortfall through a gas pipeline deal with Iran. That has been hung up by international sanctions against Iran, but Pakistani officials have continued to push for it. On Tuesday, Mr. Sharif’s chief foreign policy adviser, Sartaj Aziz, was in Iran to discuss the project.
为弥补自身的能源短缺，巴基斯坦还希望与伊朗达成一项天然气管道协议。这一尝试因伊朗遭到国际制裁而搁置，但巴基斯坦官员依然在进行推动。周二，谢里夫的首席外交政策顾问萨尔塔杰·阿齐兹(Sartaj Aziz)正在伊朗商讨此事。
Mr. Sharif on Tuesday also announced plans to build six more nuclear plants in other parts of the country. But Mr. Zhang said that China was unlikely to build any more nuclear reactors in Pakistan beyond the two units in Karachi. The choice of Karachi is significant because it is considered Pakistan’s economic and trade center, and its coastal location also provides ample water for use in reactor cooling.
周二，谢里夫还宣布了将在该国其他地方再修建六座核电站的计划。但张力说，除了卡拉奇的那两座核反应堆外，中国不大可能再在巴基斯坦修建核反应堆。选择卡拉奇有着重要的意义，因为那里被视为巴基斯坦的经济和贸易中心，其地处沿海的位置也提供了丰富的水，可用于冷却反应堆。
“Today people look with envy toward cities like Dubai, Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur and Singapore,” Mr. Sharif said in his speech, which was broadcast live. “I wish to see Karachi in this list of harbors and industrial hubs.”
“如今，人们对迪拜、香港、吉隆坡和新加坡等城市充满羡慕，”谢里夫在实况直播的讲话中说，“我希望看到卡拉奇跻身这些海港和工业中心的行列。”