Chinese veterinarians, animal welfare advocates and ethicists say proposals by the State Forestry Administration to better “manage” wild animals will lead to their increased exploitation in the entertainment and traditional medicine industries, and strongly oppose the plan.
中国的兽医、动物权益倡导者和伦理学家说，国家林业局为更好地“管理”野生动物而提出的办法会导致娱乐业和中医药行业对动物的更大压榨，因此，他们强烈反对该计划。
The proposals, dubbed the “Domestication and Breeding Licenses for Wild Animals,” would add two new licenses for wild animal use: in circuses and in “production and business,” according to those who have seen the official documents. This is in addition to three existing licenses, they said: rescue and protection, scientific research and popular science education.
一些已看到官方文件的人士透露，这项名为《国家重点保护野生动物驯养繁殖许可证管理方法》的提案将新增两项野生动物利用许可类别，一项是马戏表演，另一项是“生产经营”。他们说，这两项许可类别是在现有类别基础之上新增的，现有的三项许可类别是保护拯救、科学研究及科普教育。
The Forestry Administration first presented the proposals to the public for comment on online forums on Nov. 20, but will stop soliciting opinions on Friday. On Monday, representatives of animal rights groups and academics held a seminar in the Ministry of Environmental Protection’s Center for Environmental Education and Communications to air their views. No officials were present.
今年11月20日，国家林业局首次在网上论坛公布了上述办法的草案，旨在征求意见，不过，意见征求活动将于本周五结束。本周一，动物权益组织代表和学术界代表在环境保护部宣传教育中心举行研讨会，表达了自己的观点。没有官员列席此次研讨会。
“These things — animal circuses and the trade in wild animals — have long existed and now they’re saying, let’s manage them better. So the government may mean to regulate and control it, but in the process it is legalizing it,” said Jin Yipeng, a professor at China Agricultural University in Beijing and a trained veterinarian, said after the event. “It’s a step backwards.”
位于北京的中国农业大学教授、训练有素的兽医金艺鹏在会后说，“这些行为——动物马戏和野生动物交易——长期以来一直存在，现在他们说，我们要更好地管理这些行为。如此说来，政府可能有意规范和管理此类行为，可是，政府会在这个过程中使此类行为合法化。这是一种倒退。”
Animal welfare advocates, he said, fear the move reflects simple commercial greed. “People can make money out of this,” Mr. Jin said.
他说，动物权益倡导者担忧此举反映的是纯粹的商业贪欲。金艺鹏说，“人们可以从中牟利”。
The Chinese government is under growing pressure from major traditional Chinese medicine companies to increase the number of bears kept in farms where their bile is extracted as a pharmaceutical ingredient.
中国政府面临日渐增长的压力，压力来自一些大型中医药公司，他们要求增加圈养狗熊的数量，为的是从狗熊的胆汁当中提取药用成分。
“The government can’t get away from seeing wild animals as a resource,” rather than a category of life that should be protected, said one animal welfare advocate who declined to give his name.
一名不愿具名的动物权益倡导者表示，“政府就是放不下将野生动物当成资源的观点”，没有将它们视作应该受到保护的生命。
Article 1 of the proposed regulations states that they aim “to protect, develop and reasonably use the resource of wild animals, strengthen the domestication and breeding of wild animals, and protect the legal rights of people and firms domesticating and breeding wild animals.”
林业局所提管理办法的第一条写道，他们的目的是“保护、发展和合理利用野生动物资源，加强野生动物驯养繁殖管理工作，维护野生动物驯养繁殖单位和个人的合法权益”。
Animal welfare advocates at the seminar said animal performances in circuses inevitably involve cruelty, and they showed photographs of bleeding and injured animals. The government stopped issuing news licenses for bear bile farms in 1993, they said, but animal welfare advocates fear this would formally ease restrictions that are already being informally breached. The government says there are 68 licensed farms operating today, holding thousands of bears.“We should be talking about protecting wild animals, but a lot of the points in the proposed regulations are about expanding their commercial use,” said Mang Ping, a professor at the Central Institute of Socialism who researches environmental ethics.
参与前述研讨会的动物权益倡导者表示，马戏团的动物表演必然会涉及残忍对待。他们还展示了动物流血受伤的照片。他们称，政府已于1993年停止为熊胆养殖场颁发新许可证，但动物权益倡导者担心，林业局的办法意味着正式放宽相关限制，与此同时，本来就有人在偷偷突破这些限制。政府表示，目前共有68家获得许可证的养殖场在营业，这些养殖场养了数千头熊。中央社会主义学院研究环境伦理的莽萍教授表示，“我们应该讨论的是如何保护野生动物，然而，林业局提出的管理办法当中，许多地方说的都是扩大野生动物的商业用途。”
The proposals contradict China’s wild animal protection law, which does not mention circuses or commercialization, Ms. Mang said. And they violate the spirit of decisions emanating from both the 18th Communist Party Congress in 2012, and the recently concluded Third Plenum, which called for the “most strict” protection of the environment, she said.
莽萍表示，拟议中的管理办法与中国《野生动物保护法》相矛盾，后者没有提及马戏团或商业化用途。莽萍表示，它们违背了2012年召开的中共十八大会议决定的精神，也违背了最近结束的三中全会所做决定的精神，三中全会要求实行“最严格的”环境保护。
“It’s quite unusual for the government to use the phrase ‘most strict,’ ” Ms. Mang said. “So one problem with these proposals is that they don’t fit with the law” or recent party decisions.
“政府使用了‘最严格’一词，这是相当不寻常的，”莽萍说。“因此，这些提议存在一个问题，那就是不符合法律”和党的最近决定。