BEIJING —Chinese air travelers have tried opening emergency doors without authorization 12 times in barely four months on planes that were taxiing or at a standstill, and one man was put on trial in the country's first such legal case, the Civil Aviation Administration of China said Monday.
北京——中国民用航空局周一称，仅仅四个多月时间里，共发生了12起中国航空旅客擅自开启飞机应急舱门的事件——有的飞机当时正在滑行，有的则处于静止状态。一名男性乘客因为此类举动而被送上了法庭，在国内创下先例。
There is no immediate explanation for the apparent spike in the behavior this year, although Chinese are traveling in record numbers, many of them flying for the first time and lacking basic aviation safety knowledge.
目前尚不清楚擅开应急舱门之举今年明显增多的原因。不过，中国游客的人数正创下历史新高，而且他们中的很多人是第一次坐飞机，缺乏基本的航空安全知识。
The man, identified only by his family name of Piao, stood trial Monday on the charge of endangering public safety in the northeastern city of Yanji, the administration said in a statement.
民航局在一份声明中表示，被控涉嫌犯下危害公共安全罪的男子朴某周一在位于中国东北地区的延吉市出庭受审。
Piao opened an emergency door on an Asiana Airlines flight on Feb. 12 when the plane was taxiing, causing the emergency slide to eject and prompting the flight crew to take emergency measures to halt the aircraft, the administration said.
民航局称，2月12日，乘坐韩亚航空(Asiana Airlines)一趟航班的朴某在飞机滑行期间打开了一道应急舱门，导致应急滑梯弹出，迫使机组采取紧急措施停下飞机。
His act caused the flight to be delayed for four hours and severely disrupted the airport operations, the administration said. Earlier media reports said Piao mistakenly raised the handle of the emergency door and was administratively detained for 10 days.
他的行为令那个航班延误了四个小时，并让延吉机场运行秩序受到严重影响。早前有媒体报道称，朴某拉动安全舱门手柄之举属误操作，因此被行政拘留了10天。
Passengers have opened emergency doors without authorization 11 other times in 2015 at airports throughout the country, the administration said.
民航局表示，2015年以来，中国各地的机场还发生了另外11起乘客擅开应急舱门的事件。
The acts "have severely hurt aviation safety, disrupted flight operations and caused ill social impact," the statement said.
此类行为“严重危害航空安全，影响航班正常运行，造成了恶劣的社会影响。”
There is no data available for previous years, but the attention paid in China to the current incidents suggest such acts were rare or non-existent in the past. Authorities appear to be publicizing recent cases as a way to educate the public and stop such acts.
目前无法查阅到前些年的数据，但当下的事件在中国备受关注，说明以往此类行为非常罕见，或者根本不存在。当局之所以公开报道近期发生的事件，似乎旨在教育公众，阻止类似举动。
Last week, tourism authorities publicly shamed Beijing resident Zhou Yue by putting him on a national blacklist for rude behaviors. Upset with flight delay, Zhou forcibly opened two emergency doors on a domestic flight in January, and he was late administratively detained for 15 days.
上周，北京居民周跃遭到了旅游管理部门的公开羞辱，曾经有过不文明行为的他被列入了一份适用于全国范围的黑名单。今年1月，由于对延误不满，周跃乘坐一趟国内航班时强行打开了两道应急舱门，随后被行政拘留15天。
In one case last year, a man pulled the handle to open an emergency door to let in fresh air while passengers were boarding the plane in the eastern city of Hangzhou, according to media reports.
据媒体报道，去年发生过这样一起事件：在东部城市杭州的机场，一名男性乘客在其他乘客登机之际擅自扳动了紧急舱门的手柄，为的是呼吸一下新鲜空气。