HONG KONG — China’s exports rose more than expected last month, government figures released Sunday showed, as resurgent demand from consumers in the United States and the European Union helped put the Asian manufacturing juggernaut on track for its biggest annual trade surplus since 2008.
香港——中国政府周日公布的数据显示，上月的出口增幅高出预计。美国和欧盟的消费者需求复苏，帮助推动这个亚洲制造业大国朝着2008年之后最大年度贸易顺差的目标前进。
China’s exports of goods rose 12.7 percent in November compared with a year earlier, while imports increased 5.3 percent, resulting in a trade surplus for the month of $33.8 billion, according to data from the General Administration of Customs.
根据海关总署提供的数据，与去年同期相比，中国11月出口货物增长12.7%，进口增长5.3%，因此该月录得338亿美元的贸易顺差。
The reported export growth outpaced expectations of a 7.1 percent increase, while the increase in imports was less than the 7.2 percent economists had forecast, according to the average estimates from a survey of economists by Thomson Reuters.
公布的出口增长数据超过了外界预期的7.1%的增长，而根据汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)对经济学家的调查显示，进口增长低于经济学家平均预计的7.2%。
Analysts said that although the yearly comparison figures were partly bolstered by companies’ overinvoicing — an anomaly of Chinese trade data — the underlying export trends were encouraging.
分析师指出，同比增长数据高企，部分原因是中国公司虚开发票——这导致了中国贸易数据的不正常——但是所体现的出口趋势让人感到鼓舞。
“The year-on-year growth data overstates the actual export momentum,” Louis Kuijs, the chief China economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland in Hong Kong, wrote Sunday in a research note. “Nonetheless, there are signs that the global activity and trade cycle is gaining momentum, driven by the recovery in high-income countries, and China’s exporters are benefiting from that.”
周日，苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)驻香港的首席中国经济师高路易(Louis Kuijs)在一份研究报告中说，“同比增长数据夸大了实际出口势头。即便如此，还是有迹象表明，由于高收入国家的复苏，全球活动和贸易周期表现得越来越强劲，而中国的出口商正在从中获益。”
Improving demand in the West for Chinese goods led to greater-than-expected growth in shipments to major trading partners. China’s exports to the United States rose 17.3 percent last month, while shipments to the European Union rose 18.5 percent, customs figures show.
西方对中国商品的需求有所增加，导致中国对主要贸易伙伴的货运量增长也高于预期。海关数据显示，中国对美国的出口比上月增长17.3%，对欧盟的出口上涨18.5%。
As a result, China’s trade surplus is soaring to levels not seen in years — a development that could draw scrutiny from Western trading partners.
中国的贸易顺差增幅如此之高，是过去几年所未见的——这一发展或将引发西方贸易伙伴的关切。
Liu Li-Gang, the chief economist for greater China at the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, wrote Sunday in a research note that China’s trade surplus was likely to exceed $240 billion this year, the highest level since 2008.
澳新银行(Australia and New Zealand Banking Group)的大中华地区首席经济师刘利刚(Li-Gang Liu)在周日的一份研究报告中写道，中国今年的贸易顺差有可能超过2400亿美元，这是2008年之后的最高水平。
This, Mr. Liu wrote, is “contrary to the fact that renminbi appreciation has significantly eroded trade competitiveness.” A stronger currency makes the goods that Chinese manufacturers export relatively more expensive to foreigners.
刘利刚写到，这与“人民币升值已经极大地侵蚀了中国的贸易竞争力的事实形成了反差”。货币走强，使得中国生产商的商品跟外国货相比，价格要更加高昂一些。
China’s currency has risen more than 16 percent against the dollar in the last five years to about 6.08 renminbi per dollar from around 7.3 per dollar at the start of 2008.
过去五年来，中国的人民币对美元升值超过16%，现在是将近6.08元人民币对1美元，而2008年初，汇率约为7.3元人民币对1美元。
The stronger currency, coupled with rising wages at home and weak demand from overseas, have made profitability more difficult for Chinese manufacturers and trading firms in recent years. For example, shares in Li & Fung, the Hong Kong merchandiser that is one of the biggest sourcing agents in the world, are down about 25 percent this year, compared with a 4.8 percent increase in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.
货币走强，同时国内工资水平上涨和海外需求低迷，导致近年来中国生产企业和贸易公司盈利的难度加大。比方说，香港贸易公司利丰集团(Li & Fung)是世界上最大的采购代理之一，他们的股票今年已经下跌将近25%，与此同时作为重要指标的恒生指数(Hang Seng Index)则上涨4.8%。
Still, appreciation of the currency has slowed substantially in recent months, which could be seen as contributing to China’s growing trade surpluses. The renminbi has strengthened only about 0.7 percent against the dollar since May.
但是，最近几个月人民币升值的速度大幅放缓，这可能会被视为中国贸易顺差增长的原因之一。5月以来，人民币对美元仅升值0.7%。
Analysts were quick to caution that China’s monthly trade figures could not be taken entirely at face value.
分析师还是迅速提出警告，认为不能完全停留在中国月度贸易数据的表面。
Chinese officials have been working in recent months to compile more accurate trade figures after having reported widely aberrant monthly export and import data early this year and late last year — irregularities that analysts have said were caused by companies seeking to evade taxes, known as “round-tripping,” or to disguise capital inflows to China by falsifying the invoiced value of the goods they were shipping abroad.
近月来，中国官员一直想要搜集更加精确的贸易数据。之前，去年末和今年初公布的月度进出口数据出现重大异常——分析师认为，出现这种异常主要是因为有些公司通过名为“返程投资”(round-tripping)的方式来避税，或者以伪造出口货物的发票金额的方式来掩饰流入中国的资金。
“The data in January-November suggest that China could achieve the 8 percent trade growth target for the whole year,” Mr. Liu wrote in his note. “However, we cannot be overly optimistic, as the overinvoicing and round-tripping clearly inflated export growth in the first half of the year.”
刘利刚在研究报告中指出，“1月到11月的数据表明，中国能够完成全年8%的贸易增长目标。但是，我们不能过分乐观，因为虚开发票和返程投资明显地导致今年前半年出口增长虚高。”