HONG KONG — In the cement industry, as with so much else in global commerce, China is a dominant force.
香港——与全球贸易的众多其他领域类似，在水泥行业里，中国的势力最强大。
Yet unlike many global commodities, cement is a product in which China’s leading role has little bearing on exports or on European suppliers.
然而，与许多全球大宗商品不同的是，中国在水泥业的领先地位，与出口贸易或欧洲的供货商都没有多大关系。
Cement is so heavy and relatively inexpensive that it is not worth shipping far from the source of production. That means China, in this field, has little impact on global supplies or prices, even though the nation accounts for about 60 percent of world production of this most basic of building materials.
水泥非常笨重，又比较便宜，因此并不值得从产地远途运输。这就意味着，在水泥领域，尽管全世界60%左右的这种最为基本的建筑材料由中国生产，但该国对全球供应和价格均无甚影响。
‘‘Cement is usually a short-haul sea trade, because the cost of production is not high,’’ said Vikrant S. Bhatia, the chief executive of KC Maritime, a bulk-carrier shipping line based in Hong Kong that specializes in cement. Very little cement moves between Asia and Europe, he said.
“水泥往往是短途海上贸易，因为生产成本不高，”KC海运公司(KC Maritime)的首席执行官维克兰特·S·巴蒂亚(Vikrant S. Bhatia)说。这家散货船航运企业的总部位于香港，专事水泥业务。他还表示，亚欧之间的水泥运输极少。
Lafarge and Holcim, the European giants that plan to merge, each have substantial operations in Asia, Mr. Bhatia said. Lafarge maintains a large office in Singapore with big plants in countries like Vietnam. Holcim is strong in India and Dubai, he said.
巴蒂亚称，计划合并的欧洲巨头拉法基(Lafarge)和豪瑞(Holcim)均在亚洲有大规模业务。拉法基在新加坡有家大型办事处，在越南等国建有大型工厂。他还说，豪瑞在印度和迪拜表现强势。
But China is the big player in Asia, though mainly for its own voracious construction needs. Only a tiny fraction of Chinese cement is exported.
不过，中国才是亚洲的大玩家，但主要是为了满足自身巨大的建筑需求。仅有极小部分的中国水泥用于出口。
According to the European Cement Association in Brussels, China accounted for 59.3 percent of the 3.6 billion tons of cement produced in the world in 2012, the most recent year for which detailed global information was available. Producers in the rest of Asia accounted for an additional 20 percent of the global supply. Over all, Asian producers made almost 80 percent of the world’s cement that year.
根据布鲁塞尔的欧洲水泥协会(European Cement Association)提供的数据，2012年，也就是可以获取详细全球信息的最近一个年份，全世界的水泥产量为36亿吨，而中国占到了其中的59.3%。亚洲其他地区贡献了全球供应量的20%。加起来，亚洲的生产国占到了当年全球水泥产量的近80%。
China’s cement production rose 9.6 percent last year, according to the country’s National Bureau of Statistics, even as weak economic growth held back expansion elsewhere.
中国国家统计局的数据显示，该国去年的水泥产量增长了9.6%，尽管经济增长疲软阻碍了其他各国的产能扩张。
China exported only 14.5 million tons of cement last year, or 0.6 percent of production, while importing less than a million tons, Chinese customs information shows.
中国海关的信息显示，去年，中国只出口了1450万吨水泥，占总产量的0.6%，而进口量不到100万吨。
Much of that cement went to countries with large natural resource sectors that have the means to pay for imports and are investing heavily in construction, notably Mongolia, Australia and Angola.
很多水泥的出口目的地是那些拥有庞大的自然资源产业、有钱购买进口水泥并在大力投资建设项目的国家，特别是蒙古、澳大利亚和安哥拉。
China has been building cement plants at a torrid pace, despite growing concerns about the plants’ air pollution and their voracious demand for electricity, which is mostly generated in China by burning coal.
尽管人们日益关注水泥厂的空气污染及其对电力的贪婪需求——中国主要依靠燃煤发电，但中国一直在快速建设水泥厂。
Cement is made by crushing and mixing limestone and clay, which requires considerable amounts of electricity, and then baking the mixtures with additives in huge, extremely hot kilns that consume a lot of oil or coal-based materials.
水泥是将石灰岩和粘土碾碎、混合，然后加入添加剂在巨大的高温窑炉内烧制而成的。碾碎混合过程需要耗费相当大的电量，而烧制过程则会消耗大量的燃油或煤基材料。
Even as new cement plants continue to open, there are worries that China’s demand for cement might start to slow. Real estate prices have begun rising a little less quickly this year in China, while many of the country’s real estate developers are struggling to cope with fairly high inflation-adjusted interest rates on corporate borrowing.
就在中国继续开设新水泥厂的时候，有人担心该国对水泥的需求可能会开始放缓。今年，中国的房价上涨趋势已经开始稍有减缓，很多房地产开发商在努力应对经通胀调整后已经相当高的企业贷款利率。
The largest single use of cement by far in China has been in railroad construction. High-speed rail lines, in particular, tend to be built on long, above-ground concrete viaducts to minimize the amount of farmland that they occupy and to keep the rails almost perfectly flat for long distances.
在中国，水泥最大的用途是铁路建设，特别是高铁线路。高铁往往建在长长的混凝土高架路基上，以便最低限度地占用农田，并使铁路长距离地保持完全平坦。
The Chinese State Council, the country’s cabinet, announced last week that it would accelerate the completion of new rail lines this year to 4,100 miles, an increase of 620 miles from last year.
中国的国务院上周宣布，将在今年加快新铁路线的建设，计划完工4100英里（约合6600公里），同比增加620英里。