A report on the C.I.A.’s interrogations of terrorism suspects released by the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday has received extensive coverage in China, which has long accused the United States of hypocrisy on human rights issues.
美国参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)周二发布的关于中央情报局(CIA)审讯恐怖主义嫌疑人的报告，在中国被广泛报道。中国长期以来一直指责美国在人权问题上的虚伪。
On Thursday, state-run news media published photographs and analysis, including details of extreme interrogation techniques used by the C.I.A., like waterboarding. The English-language China Daily ran an editorial cartoon featuring the rolled-up Senate report funneling water over the face of a bloated man labeled “C.I.A.”
周四，中国官方媒体发表了一些图片和分析性文章，包括CIA使用的极端审讯技巧的具体细节，比如水刑。英文版《中国日报》刊登了一幅漫画，漫画中，参议院这份报告被卷了起来，水源源不断地从纸卷中流出，浇在一个膨胀起来的男子脸上，他身上写着“CIA”字样。
The People’s Daily, ran an article with the headline “C.I.A. Prisoner Abuse Report Reveals Details of Torture.” The article, which details the bipartisan fighting before and after the report’s release, highlights earlier criticism of C.I.A. practices within the United States.
《人民日报》也发表了一篇文章，题为“虐囚丑闻是对美国所谓人权的嘲讽”。这篇文章详细介绍了报告发布前后的美国两党争斗，并强调了CIA的操作早前在美国国内受到的批评。
The news media coverage followed comments a day earlier by Hong Lei, At a regular news briefing in Beijing on Wednesday, a spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who said at a regular news briefing in Beiing that Hong Lei, said that China “consistently opposes torture.”
媒体发表上述报道的前一天，外交部发言人洪磊在例行记者会上说，“中方一贯反对酷刑。”
“We believe that the U.S. side should reflect upon and rectify its relevant behavior, earnestly obey and implement the provisions of international conventions,” he said.
“我们认为美方应反省和纠正有关做法，切实遵守和履行国际公约规定，”他说。
In the People’s Daily article, Su Xiaohui, a researcher at the China Institute of International Studies in Beijing, was quoted as saying that not only will the United States will face “possible retaliation from terrorist organizations” over the report’s disclosures, and that the report but it “will also have a negative impact on the global security situation.”
在《人民日报》的文章中，中国国际问题研究院的研究人员苏晓晖说，虐囚事实被披露后，很可能“引起恐怖组织报复”，也会“对国际安全局势造成负面影响”。
She said the United States had historically promoted international law, “but has itself forgotten relevant international conventions, including the Geneva Convention,” referring to rules governing the wartime treatment of prisoners of war as well as the wounded, civilians and other noncombatants.
她说，美国历来主张遵守国际法和国际规则，“但自己却忘了《日内瓦公约》等有关国际公约”。《日内瓦公约》(Geneva Convention)规定了该如何对待战俘以及伤员、平民和其他非参战人员。
“America owes the international community an explanation, and should also propose a practical solution,” she continued.
“美国欠国际社会一个交代，也该提出切实的解决方案，”苏晓晖接着说。
Xinhua, the state-run news agency, listed the report along with racial tensions and income inequality in a broad, critical commentary on the “sheer hypocrisy” of the United States’ human rights record.
官方通讯社新华社在一篇评论文章中抨击了美国在人权问题上的“虚伪”。文中列举了诸多问题，包括这份报告，以及种族关系紧张和收入不平等。
“It does not even need a discerning eye to see through that camouflage and realize that hegemony, instead of defending human rights, is the U.S. operating code,” Xinhua the commentary said.
“甚至都不需要火眼金睛便能看穿这种伪装，意识到美国的行动守则是霸权，而非捍卫人权，”新华社的这篇评论文章说。
On its Chinese-language website, photographs from Guantánamo Bay, including one of a hooded prisoner forced into a stress position, accompanied a lengthy analysis of the report, which also described some of the interrogation methods used.
新华社的中文网站刊登了一篇长文，对该报告进行了分析，并描述了中情局使用的部分审讯方法。网站还为这篇文章附上了来自关塔那摩监狱的照片，在其中一张照片上，一名蒙面的囚犯被迫做出不适姿势。
Another state news agency, China News Service, published an editorial calling for the United States to “do some soul-searching on human rights issues.”
另一家官方通讯社中国新闻社发表了一篇评论文章，要求美国“在人权问题上反躬自省”。
“On the issue of human rights, the U.S. has always presented the image of a ‘champion of human rights,’ and rarely mentions its own issues with regards to poverty, unemployment and race,” the editorial said. “The recently published prisoner abuse report has thoroughly discredited this ‘human rights champion’ idea.”
“在人权问题上，美国一直以‘人权斗士’的形象示人，很少提及自身存在的贫困、失业及种族等问题，”文章说。“近日发布的虐囚报告则让‘人权斗士’颜面扫地。”
The Global Times, however, lamented that the United States’ standing in the world would probably not be greatly damaged by the report.
但《环球时报》却感叹，美国在世界上的地位可能不会因为该报告受到多大影响。