SHANGHAI — Every half-hour or so, Jenny Zhao, young and wired, unlocks her iPhone 5 to connect with friends using Weixin, China’s wildly popular social messaging app.
上海——每过半小时左右，谙熟互联网的年轻女孩赵蝶就会解锁自己的iPhone 5，使用在中国大受欢迎的社交通讯应用微信来与朋友们联络。
“I’m probably on Weixin six hours a day,” says Ms. Zhao, 24, a cosmetics marketer in Shanghai. “A lot of what I do revolves around it.”
“我每天大概有六个小时都在微信上，”赵蝶说。她24岁，在上海从事化妆品营销工作。“我的好多事情都围着它转。”
Weixin (pronounced way-shin) is this country’s killer app, a highly addictive social networking tool that allows smartphone users to send messages and share news, photos, videos and web links, much like America’s WhatsApp, or Line, a Japanese communications and messaging app. In the United States, a similar version is known as WeChat.
微信是中国的应用大热门。这种非常容易上瘾的社交网络工具可以让用户发送短信，并且分享新闻、图片、视频和网络链接，与美国的WhatsApp和日本的通讯应用连我(Line)异曲同工。在美国，功能类似的微信版本叫做WeChat。
Just three years after being introduced in China, Weixin has nearly 300 million users — a faster adoption rate than either Facebook and Twitter — giving the app a dominant position in what is now the world’s biggest smartphone market. It has already stopped the growth of the messaging service of the country’s biggest mobile phone company and provoked China’s largest Internet companies to create competing services.
在中国市场推出仅三年后，微信就拥有了近3亿用户，普及速度超过了Facebook和Twitter。这让微信在当今世界第一的智能手机市场上称霸。它终止了中国最大的移动电话公司的短信服务增长，还促使该国规模居首的一些互联网企业打造与之竞争的服务。
But in the free-for-all in China, one leading social media company is not a factor. Analysts say the phenomenal rise of Weixin all but dooms any chance that Facebook will become the market leader there.
不过，在一拥而上的中国市场上，有一家重量级的社交网络公司缺席了。分析人士认为，微信的脱颖而出基本上让Facebook葬送了在这里取得市场领先的任何机会。
In 2009, the Chinese government blocked access to Facebook, without explanation. Twitter and YouTube are also blocked in China.
2009年，中国政府封禁了Facebook，却没有给出任何解释。Twitter和YouTube也在这里遭禁。
Since then, Facebook has hinted that it may try to re-enter the market, perhaps by teaming up with a local company. Weixin’s success has made that all the more difficult.
后来，Facebook曾暗示，可能会尝试重返中国，采取的方式或许是与一家本土企业联手。可是，微信的成功已让这件事难上加难。
“Even if Facebook had permission, it’s probably too late,” says Wang Xiaofeng, a technology analyst at Forrester Research. “Weixin has all the functionality of Facebook and Twitter, and Chinese have already gotten used to it.”
“就算Facebook获批，也很可能太晚了，”弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)的科技业分析师王晓丰说。“微信拥有Facebook和Twitter的全部功能，而且中国人已经养成了使用它的习惯。”
Weixin is the creation of Tencent, the Chinese Internet powerhouse known for its QQ instant messenger service and its popular online games. Tencent, which is publicly traded and is worth more than $100 billion on the Hong Kong exchange, is now seeking to strengthen that grip in social networking and expand into new areas, such as online payment and e-commerce.
微信出自中国的互联网巨头腾讯之手。这家公司因即时通讯服务QQ和热门在线游戏而声名远扬。腾讯在香港交易所上市，市值超过了1000亿美元（约合6050亿元人民币）。公司目前正寻求巩固在社交网络中的强势地位，并扩展到新领域中，比如在线支付与电子商务。
Alibaba, China’s e-commerce goliath, has already announced plans to fight back in China, with its own newly developed messaging app, called Laiwang.
中国的电子商务龙头企业阿里巴巴已公布了在本土反击的计划，推出了公司新开发的通讯应用来往。
Tencent, meanwhile, is so confident of its messaging app that it is promoting Weixin overseas, particularly in Southeast Asia, where there are already tens of millions of users. The company also plans a marketing blitz in Europe and Latin America, using the name WeChat. The company declined to say whether or when it would promote the service in the United States.
与此同时，对自家的通讯应用信心十足的腾讯正在海外推广微信，尤其是在已经拥有数千万用户的东南亚地区。公司还计划，以WeChat的旗号，在欧洲和拉丁美洲展开营销攻势。不过，腾讯拒绝透露，是否或何时会在美国推广。
Weixin could help change global perceptions of Chinese companies. Although Chinese Internet companies are still considered knockoffs of Google, Facebook, Twitter and eBay, analysts say they are quickly transforming themselves into dynamic, innovative technology companies with unique business models.
微信或许会有助于全世界改变对中国公司的看法。虽说中国的互联网企业仍被视为谷歌(Google)、Facebook、Twitter和eBay的山寨版，但分析人士认为，它们正迅速变身为具有独特商业模式的活跃、创新的高科技企业。
Weixin, for instance, is no mere copy of an existing service but an amalgam of various social networking tools: part Facebook, part Instagram and even part walkie-talkie. Rather than send a short mobile phone message by typing Chinese characters, which can be time-consuming, users simply hold down a button that records a voice message.
以微信为例。它并非已有服务的简单模仿，而是多种社交网络工具的综合体：集成了Facebook、Instagram，乃至步话机的功能。要想发一通手机短信，用户不用花时间来打出汉字，只需按住一个键不放，录下语音即可。
“Chinese Internet companies are no longer behind,” says William Bao Bean, a former technology analyst who is now a managing director at the venture capital firm SingTel Innov8. “Now, in some areas, they’re leading the way.”
“中国的互联网企业不再落后了，”风投企业新电投资公司(SingTel Innov8)的董事总经理、曾从事科技业分析工作的宾威廉(William Bao Bean)说。“现在，在某些领域，它们是领先者。”
The disruptive powers of the service are indisputable. Weixin has already stunted the growth of China’s popular microblogging service Sina Weibo, and eroded the profitability of a service offered by China’s big, state-run telecommunications operators: the mobile phone short message service known as SMS.
微信的破坏力毋庸置疑。它不仅阻碍了中国的热门微博服务新浪微博的增长，还蚕食了大型国有电讯运营商的一项业务的利润，这项服务就是手机短信。
At China Mobile, the country’s biggest mobile phone service provider, revenue from short message services peaked in 2009 at nearly $9 billion. Three years later, it was down nearly 20 percent from that high, and it very likely dropped again last year, according to recent estimates.
中国最大的手机运营商中移动的短信业务于2009年达到顶峰，营收近90亿美元。三年后的数据却较之减少了近20%，而且根据近期的估算，去年也很可能再次下滑。
Analysts say that technology shifts often kill companies that are slow to react. But the threat of extinction can also inspire companies to reinvent themselves, or to search for the next great thing.
分析人士称，技术潮流的变化往往会扼杀反应太慢的企业。然而，毁灭的威胁也会激励各家公司，要么涅槃重生，要么搜寻下一波热潮。
That is what happened at Tencent, which has been growing at a torrid pace for much of the past decade. Fearing the development of a disruptive technology that could upend this success, Tencent executives say they encouraged the company’s software developers and product managers to search for new ideas.
这正是腾讯的经历，过去十年的大部分时间里，腾讯一直全速前进，不断壮大自身。公司高管表示，由于担忧某种颠覆性的技术发展可能会让腾讯取得的成功化为乌有，他们鼓励公司的软件研发人员和产品经理寻找新的创意。
In late 2010, Allen Zhang, the head of Tencent’s research and development center in Guangzhou, organized a team of 10 developers to work on a smartphone messaging app. He was inspired by Kik messenger, which he worried might eventually threaten Tencent’s dominant, PC-based QQ instant messenger.
2010年末，腾讯广州研发中心主管张小龙组织了一支有十名研发人员的团队，开发智能手机通讯应用程序。张小龙受到了Kik messenger的启发。他曾担心这款软件最终会威胁腾讯QQ的霸主地位，后者是以个人电脑为平台的即时通讯工具。
Three months later, Tencent released Weixin. With an elegant and easy-to-use interface, the messaging app attracted 50 million users within a year, and over the next two years reached nearly 300 million users worldwide.
三个月后，腾讯发布了微信。这款通讯应用凭借简洁易用的界面，在一年之内就吸引了5000万用户，接下来的两年里，在全球拿下了近3亿用户。
Weixin, technology experts say, has what every Internet company executive dreams about: stickiness. Although Tencent does not track the time that users spend on the service, analysts say it is most likely multiples of other major blogging or social media services.
技术专家表示，微信拥有每个互联网公司的高管都梦寐以求的优势，那就是用户粘度。虽然腾讯没有追踪用户花在微信上的时间，然而分析人士表示，微信的用户时长，极有可能是其他主要的微博或社交媒体服务所获时长的好多倍。
Analysts say Tencent also has a huge opportunity to make money from the free service. By introducing free mobile games — with virtual items available for purchase — and a payment feature that can be used online or offline, Weixin could soon develop into a profitable business with little or no advertising.
分析人士表示，腾讯还从这项免费服务中获得了巨大的营利商机。通过推出免费的手机游戏——用户可以购买虚拟道具——和线上线下皆能使用的支付功能，微信可能会迅速发展成一种几乎或者根本无需打广告，就能获利的业务。
The company is now experimenting with use of Weixin to book taxis, hotels and airline flights, and even to control televisions and home appliances. Last August, a technology analyst at Barclays forecast that Weixin could have 400 million users and nearly $500 million in revenue this year. With investors anticipating such growth, shares of Tencent have soared 94 percent in the past year.
目前，腾讯正在试验利用微信预订出租车、酒店和机场航班，甚而利用它来控制电视和家用电器。去年8月，巴克莱银行(Barclays)的一名科技业分析师预测，今年，微信可能会在今年取得4亿用户和近5亿美元的营收。鉴于投资者预期的增长如此之高，腾讯的股价在过去一年里已经飙升了94%。
Some Tencent executives even view Weixin as a company savior. Last year, Tencent’s chief executive and co-founder, Ma Huateng — known in English as Pony Ma — said during a speech that the power of Weixin was that it was mobile, like a “portable organ” that unlike a PC was always with the user.
腾讯的一些高管甚至把微信视为公司的救命稻草。去年，腾讯首席执行官、联合创始人马化腾(Pony Ma)在一次演讲中表示，微信的力量就在于它是可移动的，和个人电脑不一样，它就像是用户随身携带的“移动器官”。
If Weixin had been created by another company, Mr. Ma went on, Tencent might have gone into decline. “Looking back,” he said, “those two months were a matter of life and death” for the company.
马化腾继续说，如果微信是由其他公司开发的，那么腾讯可能早就一蹶不振了。他说，“回过头来看，生死关头其实就是一两个月的时间。”
There are challenges, of course. One, analysts say, is that China’s tech-savvy young people are fickle, and could just as quickly switch to other messaging services. Another challenge could come from Tencent’s rival Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce company that has all but declared war on Weixin.
当然，挑战依然存在。分析人士称，一个挑战是精通技术的中国青年变化无常，他们可能会同样迅速地转向其他通讯工具。另一个挑战可能来自腾讯的对手阿里巴巴。这家中国电商公司差不多已经正式对微信宣战。
Last August, Alibaba barred vendors on its Taobao.com shopping site from using Weixin to market their products. Alibaba then introduced its competing service, Laiwang, and announced plans to introduce a mobile games platform.
去年8月，阿里巴巴禁止旗下购物网站淘宝的卖家使用微信推销他们的产品。在那之后，阿里巴巴推出了自己的竞品来往，并宣布计划推出一款移动游戏平台。
Tencent’s overseas expansion plans could also be hampered by concerns about a Chinese company’s handling so much personal information, and then being forced to turn it over to the Chinese authorities, which have tight controls over Internet services.
中国当局对互联网服务业实行严密的控制，因此，对于大量的个人信息受控于一家中国公司，并在之后被迫移交给中国当局的担忧情绪，也可能让腾讯的海外扩张计划受阻。
Tencent executives insist the risks of spying are small because the company does not store messages on its servers.
腾讯高管坚称，监控数据的风险相当小，因为该公司不在服务器上存储通讯讯息。
Access to Facebook may now be blocked in China, but the American company is selling advertising to Chinese companies and considering re-entering the market.
目前，Facebook在中国的访问路径也许是被封的，不过，这家美国公司正在向中国公司出售广告，考虑重新进军中国市场。
“We are interested in China but have made no decisions about how we will approach it,” a company spokeswoman said this month.
Facebook的一名女发言人于本月表示，“我们对中国市场有兴趣，不过，我们还没有决定，该如何进军该市场。”
For now, Chinese consumers are flocking to Weixin, seemingly glued to it. At work, on subways and in restaurants, one can hear the increasingly familiar ping of a new Weixin message being received.
目前看来，中国用户纷纷涌向微信，似乎已经离不开它了。不管是在工作中、在地铁里、还是在餐馆里，人们都能听到越来越熟悉的“叮咚”声，表明手机收到了新的微信讯息。
“I use Weixin every day,” said Zhang Shoufeng, 29, a food and beverage saleswoman, as she relaxed at a shopping mall restaurant on a recent evening. “My friends are on it and my boss is on it. We are talking about where to eat, where to hang out and where to meet for company conferences. This is how we communicate.”
“我每天都用微信。”29岁的饮食业女销售张守枫在最近的一个夜晚说。彼时，她正在一家购物中心的餐厅里休息。“我的朋友都在微信上，我老板也在上面。我们正在聊去哪里吃饭，到哪里去玩、以及去哪儿开公司会议。这就是我们交流的方式。”