EARLIER this year, a police raid on a house party in Leizhou, Guangdong Province, in southern China, revealed a decadent diversion apparently popular among some of China’s elite: watching a tiger being slaughtered and butchered, then gorging on meat that’s considered an exotic delicacy.
今年早些时候，中国警方突击搜查了南方省份广东省雷州市的一场家居派对，此次行动披露了在某些中国显贵中显然颇为流行的堕落消遣，即先看着一只老虎被宰杀，然后再享用被视为山珍海味的虎肉。
Fifteen people were arrested and charged with killing more than 10 tigers in the past few years. One of them, a real estate developer identified as Mr. Xu, pleaded guilty to consuming three tigers in 2013. A prosecutor said he had “a quirky appetite for eating tiger penis and drinking tiger blood.”
过去几年里，有15人被拘捕及并被控杀死了10多只老虎。其中一名徐姓房地产开发商认罪称，自己在2013年吃了三只老虎。公诉机关称，他“有吃虎鞭、喝虎血酒的特殊嗜好”。
The Nanfang Daily reported that these “visual feasts” had become fashionable among wealthy businessmen and government officials. One official told China Daily that the privileged staged these dinners “as a form of entertainment and to show off their wealth.”
《南方日报》报道称，这种“视觉盛宴”已成为某些富商和政府官员的时髦消遣。一名官员对《中国日报》表示，特权阶层把这种宴席当做“一种消遣和炫富的资本”。
The demise of the tiger, the world’s most endangered big cat, was hastened by demand for traditional Chinese medicine, which ascribed healing properties to nearly every part of the cat, from whiskers to tail.
中药需求加速了全球最濒危的大型猫科动物老虎的灭绝，中医认为，从虎须到虎尾，老虎身上几乎所有的部位都有某种药效。
But that has changed, says a new report commissioned by the secretariat of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, which regulates that trade under a treaty signed by 180 nations.
不过，《濒危野生动植物种国际贸易公约》（Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species，以下简称CITES）秘书处委托展开了一项新研究，研究报告表明这种情况已经发生了变化。CITES根据一项由180个国家签订的条约监管老虎交易。
“ ‘Wealth’ [is] replacing ‘health’ as a primary form of consumer motivation,” the report says. Tiger parts “are now consumed less as medicine and more as exotic luxury products.”
报告写道，“‘财富’正在取代‘健康’成为老虎的首要消费动机。”老虎各部位“的药用消耗在减少，而作为奇异奢侈品的消耗在增多”。
This demand is about prestige and money. The cats’ magnificent pelts are among the most sought-after items (displayed as luxury home décor), along with “bone-strengthening wine” (an exorbitantly costly elixir made by steeping a tiger skeleton in rice wine).
这种需求事关声望和财富。华丽的虎皮（展示为一种奢侈的家用装饰品）和“壮骨酒”（一种成本极高的灵丹妙药，通过把虎骨浸泡在米酒里制成）是最让人梦寐以求的物品之一。
It’s a deadly commerce fueled by China’s commercial captive breeding farms, which hold more than 5,000 tigers and maintain stockpiles of frozen carcasses and body parts. These farms spur poaching of wild tigers by perpetuating the market in tiger parts.
商业化的中国老虎养殖场给这门致命的生意提供了动力，这些养殖场里饲养着5000多只老虎，囤积着大量的冷冻虎尸和器官肢体。这些养殖场维系的虎市刺激了对野生老虎的偷猎行为。
China figures prominently in this illegal commerce and will be a focus as convention representatives meet in Geneva next month to discuss ways to stop the trade in tigers and other big Asian cats.
中国在此类非法交易中非常引人注目，将成为下月举行的CITES代表会议的关注焦点，此次会议将就如何制止老虎交易和其他亚洲大型猫科动物交易展开讨论。
When Rudyard Kipling wrote “The Jungle Book” at the turn of the 20th century, about 100,000 wild tigers roamed the Asian continent. Today, perhaps 3,200 remain scattered across 13 countries, wiped out by trophy hunts in India, the 1960s fashion craze for fur in the United States and Europe, disappearing habitat, conflict with people and poaching.
当拉迪亚德·吉卜林(Rudyard Kipling)在20世纪之交撰写《丛林之书》(The Jungle Book)时，亚洲大陆大约还分布着10万只野生虎。今天，这里也许只剩下3200只野生虎了，它们散布在13个国家，导致老虎灭绝的原因有印度的狩猎战利品运动，有上世纪60年代，美国和欧洲疯狂追逐皮草的时尚热潮，栖息地的消失，以及与人类和偷猎的冲突。
Tigers command a small fortune on the black market, and demand is rising. A loophole in the country’s wildlife protection law allows the breeding and “utilization” of certain products derived from captive-bred endangered species. This has made industrial-scale “tiger farming” big business. The number of captive tigers skyrocketed from about 85 in 1993 to 5,000-plus today. (Vietnam, Laos and Thailand also breed tigers, but on a much smaller scale.) Farming continues despite a 2007 decision by the convention that “tigers should not be bred for trade in their parts and derivatives.”
在黑市，老虎相当值钱，对老虎的需求在上升。中国野生动物保护法里的漏洞允许人们饲养濒危物种及“利用”从圈养的濒危物种身上获得的某种产品。这让老虎养殖场成为了颇具产业规模的大生意。养殖老虎的数量从1993年的约85只，飙升到今天的5000多只。（越南、老挝和泰国也饲养老虎，不过规模要小得多。）虽然CITES在2007年通过决议规定，“不应以交易老虎身体部位和派生物为目的饲养老虎，”然而类似的养殖仍在继续。
In 2010, the Chinese Year of the Tiger, the bleak conditions in China’s commercial breeding facilities came under scrutiny from conservation groups and the media. Gruesome images documented tigers crammed into cramped, decrepit, concrete enclosures. Many were emaciated, reduced to striped bags of bones. Some were deformed by inbreeding.
2010年是中国的虎年，商业化的中国老虎养殖场里的惨象受到了保护组织和媒体的监督。恐怖的图像记录了老虎被塞在狭小破旧的混凝土圈养场里的情形。许多老虎瘦成了皮包骨。还有一些老虎因近亲繁殖成了畸形虎。
Little seems to have changed since then.
此后的情况似乎丝毫没有改变。
Some farms are run as animal parks, where the few healthy animals perform before cheering tourists. The rest are hidden from public view. Though these parks are thinly disguised as educational or conservation initiatives, they in no way help the species. A captive tiger has never been successfully released into the wild.
一些养殖场以动物园为名对外经营，几只身体健康的动物在欢呼喝彩的游客前表演。其余动物则被隐藏在公众视野之外。虽然这些动物园把自己粗略伪装成了教育或保护基地，它们却无助于保护这一物种。从没有哪个老虎养殖场成功地把老虎放归野外。
The two largest breeding outfits (which more than 1,000 tigers each) were begun with start-up financing from the State Forestry Administration, an agency with contradictory roles: protecting wildlife while also overseeing and promoting intensive tiger farming.
两家规模最大的养殖场（每家都养有1000多只老虎）刚创业时，获得了国家林业局的创业资金，国家林业局是一个职责自相矛盾的机构，它既要保护野生动植物，又要监管和推动集约化的老虎养殖场。
While breeding is legal in China, the sale of tiger parts is not. Skins from captive animals are exempt if they have forestry administration permits, supposedly issued for educational or scientific purposes.
在中国，养殖老虎是合法的，销售老虎的身体部位则是非法的。如果得到林业部的许可证，销售养殖动物的兽皮可以获得法律豁免，此类许可证本来是颁发给以教育或科研为目的的项目的。
But undercover operatives working for the Environmental Investigation Agency, a London-based group focused on exposing environmental crime, found the licensing process rife with improprieties.
为总部位于伦敦的环境调查署(Environmental Investigation Agency)工作的卧底调查员发现，许可证的颁发过程充斥着各种失当行为。
In 2012, they encountered taxidermists preparing skins for private customers using forestry administration permits. Those documents seemed to be regularly reused — making it easy to launder skins from illicit sources — and investigators were also offered skins lacking any paperwork.
2012年，他们发现，动物标本剥制师在利用林业部的许可证为私人客户准备兽皮标本。这些文件似乎常常可以反复使用——洗白经非法渠道获得的兽皮由此变得轻而易举——对方还给调查人员提供了缺乏任何批文的兽皮。
Little is known about the scale and oversight of this market. But the convention’s report says that China allows “internal trading privileges” for companies dealing in tiger skins and body parts “produced mainly but not exclusively from captive breeding.”
人们对老虎市场的规模和监管情况几乎一无所知。不过，CITES的报告表示，中国允许处理虎皮和老虎身体部位的公司享有“内部交易特权”，享有特权的“主要是老虎养殖场，但它并不是唯一的特权享有者”。
The report also said that tiger parts amassed by breeding farms were finding their way into the market. “Given the increasing detection of frozen carcasses in illegal trade... as well as the continued production in China of wine suggestively marketed as containing tiger, it appears that government oversight of privately held stocks may not be sufficient to guarantee their security,” the report said.
报告还说，养殖场想方设法把囤积的虎体部位推向市场。报告说，“鉴于当局在非法交易中侦查到越来越多的冷冻虎尸......而且中国在继续生产以含有虎骨为暗示卖点的酒类，政府对私人持股公司的监管也许不足以保证老虎的安全。”
But public opinion in China is slowly turning against this “utilization” of wildlife, especially among younger generations. Public service announcements, billboards and social media campaigns have helped. The film stars Jackie Chan and Jiang Wen appear in ads saying, “When the buying stops, the killing can, too.”
不过，中国的舆论在慢慢朝着反对“利用”野生动物转变，在更加年轻的一辈中尤其如此。公益广告、广告牌和社交媒体宣传发挥了作用。影星成龙和姜文在广告中现身说法，“没有买卖，就没有杀害。”
An outcry over wildlife consumption by the wealthy led China’s legislature to stipulate this spring that those who ate or bought endangered species could face 10 years in prison. But it’s unclear whether caged tigers are considered endangered under these rules.
今年春天，一个由富裕人群发起的呼呼活动促使中国立法机构对野生动物消费做出规定，食用或购买濒危物种者可能会面临10年监禁。不过，目前尚不清楚，照此规定，圈养的老虎是否算是濒危物种。