When I tell people that I have recently published a novel set in China, one of the first questions they ask is whether I’ve been there. My response seems to be a letdown. The expectant look on their faces shifts as they wonder why I chose to write about a place I’ve never visited. Sometimes I sense incredulity. What makes me think I can write about China?
当我对人说我最近出版了一本以中国为背景的小说时，他们最先提出的问题之一就是我是否去过那里。我的回答似乎令他们失望了。他们脸上的期待表情消失了，他们觉得奇怪，为什么我会写一个从来没有去过的地方。有时候我能感觉到他们的怀疑。我凭什么认为自己能写关于中国的小说？
My grandfather, Watts O. Pye, was one of the early missionaries to return to China after the Boxer Rebellion of 1900. In Shanxi Province, he oversaw the building of a hospital, schools, a library and roads that brought famine relief. The Reverend Pye died young, but my father, Lucian W. Pye, remained in Shanxi with my grandmother, living in the mission compound under Japanese occupation. He finally left China for college, returned with the Marines at the end of World War II, and went on to become a renowned Sinologist and the author of over 20 books on Asia, and China in particular.
我的祖父瓦茨·O·派伊(Watts O. Pye)是1900年义和团运动之后最早返回中国的传教士之一。在山西，他监督修建了一座医院、一些学校、一座图书馆，还修路来运送赈济饥荒的物资。派伊牧师英年早逝，但我父亲白鲁恂(Lucian W. Pye)和祖母留在了山西，在日本人占领时期，他们住在传教机构的房舍里。我父亲最终离开中国去上大学，二战结束时，他又跟着海军陆战队回到中国，后来他成为一名著名的汉学家，写过20多本关于亚洲，特别是中国的书。
My grandfather and father’s accomplishments, though, don’t make me an expert by inheritance. And yet, I’ve always a felt strong tie to China. I grew up in a house crowded with Chinese paintings, ceramics and furniture. My best childhood friend and I invented rituals with a tiny white Ming cup that we thought possessed special powers. I spent countless hours lying on a deep blue Oriental carpet covered with cherry blossoms, staring up into a painted scroll along whose ribbons of clouds I imagined traveling into the distant, shrouded mountains.
虽然我祖父和父亲有这样的经历，但我并没有继承他们，成为一名专家。不过，我总是觉得自己牵挂着中国。我在一个挂满了中国画、陶瓷和家具的房子里长大。我儿时最好的朋友和我觉得一个小小的明代白色杯子拥有特殊的力量，用它举行了一些自己发明的仪式。我还躺在一张有樱花图案的深蓝色东方风格地毯上，盯着一幅画轴上的云彩，想象着前往那云遮雾绕的遥远群山，如此消磨了无数时光。
When the time came for my parents to move to a retirement home, I sat on that same rug and went through boxes of onionskin pages with faded blue type on which my grandfather had recorded his impressions of the eerie beauty of Shanxi. His journals captured my imagination in the same way the Chinese objects had when I was a girl, but now there was the specificity and poetry of a Victorian-era gentleman’s language to further embellish my sense of that distant land. Although I had always felt pride about my grandfather’s humanitarian work in China, I was ashamed of his religious zealotry and colonial perspective. Now, the arabesques of his prose conveyed his love of those rugged plains and rolling foothills covered with loess, a yellow dust that blew in from the Gobi Desert, as well as his respect for the Chinese people — thus deepening my grasp of his contradictory position there.
我父母要搬进养老院的时候，我坐在那张樱花地毯上，查看一盒盒日记：半透明的纸张上，打字机敲出的蓝色字迹已经褪色，记录着祖父对有着灵异之美的山西的印象。就像我小时候那些中国器物一样，祖父的日记也激发了我的想象力，不过这一次，是一位维多利亚时代的绅士，用具体和富有诗意的语言，进一步渲染了我对那片遥远土地的感觉。虽然我一直为祖父在中国开展的人道主义工作感到自豪，但他的宗教狂热行为和殖民主义视角却令我惭愧。然而，在这些日志的字里行间，他展露了对那些覆盖着从戈壁沙漠吹来的黄土的崎岖平原和起伏山麓的热爱，以及对中国人民的尊重——这让我对他当年的矛盾处境有了更深刻的认识。
But impressions from childhood confirmed years later as an adult still don’t make me an expert. My father, on the other hand, was a recognized one. His colleagues at M.I.T. and at the John K. Fairbank Center at Harvard were called “China watchers.” For decades, in fact, that’s all they could do since China was closed to American visitors.
但是，对多年前的童年印象，到了成年后加以确认，并不会让我成为一个专家。而我的父亲倒是一位公认的专家。他在麻省理工学院(MIT)以及哈佛费正清东亚研究中心(John K. Fairbank Center at Harvard)的同事们都被称为“中国观察家”。实际上，在那几十年里，他们所能做的也就是观察了，因为中国不接受美国人的访问。
When he did finally visit in 1972, he brought back trinkets and clothing — cheap red and gold Mao buttons, quilted jackets in workman’s blue, olive green caps and the most ubiquitous souvenir of the time, Mao’s Little Red Book. My father spread his loot in our living room amid the Chinese antiques, stark reminders of Communism’s rejection of the delicate, evocative artistry of the past. I sensed from him that these strange new items now served as reminders that China, while suddenly open to Westerners, remained beyond the grasp of our understanding. Being permitted finally to see it firsthand had not brought outsiders closer to true understanding.
终于，父亲在1972年去了一趟中国，带回来一些小饰物和服装——便宜的金、红色毛主席像章，“工装蓝”的棉袄，橄榄绿的帽子，以及当时最普遍的纪念品，毛泽东的“红宝书”。父亲在客厅里摊开这些纪念品时，一些中国古董正摆放在周围，它们生动地提醒着我们：共产主义抛弃了以前那些精致细腻、令人回味的艺术品。我感觉，父亲现在又把这些奇怪的新物件作为一种提醒：中国虽然突然向西方人敞开了大门，但仍然超出我们的理解范围。局外人终于可以亲眼见到它，并不等于就能更进一步理解它。
My first writing mentor, Annie Dillard, once told our college class that if you ever have the choice between visiting a far-flung place or reading a book about it, choose the book. She had just returned from a trip to Alaska and said that the only thing she hadn’t known about already from her reading was the sunflowers. Apparently, in midsummer, as they work to follow the sun circling tightly overhead, their stalks twist until their bright, oversize heads break right off their slender necks. She offered a quirky, maniacal smile and said that a book containing that tidbit would be worth reading.
我的第一位写作老师安妮·迪拉德(Annie Dillard)有一次对我们这班学生说，如果可以选择，在到一个非常遥远的地方旅游和读一本关于它的书之间，选择后者。那时她刚刚从阿拉斯加旅行回来，说自己从阅读中了解到了阿拉斯加的几乎所有事情，唯一的例外是向日葵。盛夏时节，葵花为了紧跟着头顶的太阳，转动时会使得杆茎不断扭曲，直到细长的“脖子”断掉，颜色鲜艳的大“脑袋”掉下来。她露出一种古怪、疯狂的微笑说，涵盖了那种趣闻轶事的书是值得一读的。
This is how I feel about the China in my mind. My favorite books have always been those of far-off lands. The Middle East shimmered in Durrell’s “The Alexandria Quartet,” and while I didn’t necessarily understand Egypt any more precisely after reading all four volumes, that exotic landscape imprinted itself upon my teenage mind. Conrad’s “Heart of Darkness,” Maugham’s “Painted Veil” and Naipaul’s “A Bend in the River,” each revealed colonialism’s inherent flaws through the trials of unforgettable characters. These books gave me a first glimpse that there were countries resistant to Western understanding and that any presumption otherwise was an act of supreme hubris inevitably ending in the white man’s deserved downfall.
这就是我脑海中对中国的感觉。我最喜欢的书一向是关于遥远国度的。中东在达雷尔的《亚历山大四部曲》(The Alexandria Quartet)中闪烁着光芒，当时我十多岁，读完四部曲之后对埃及的了解不一定变得更加确切，但那种充满异国情调的景观却深深烙印在了我的脑海。康拉德的《黑暗的心》(Heart of Darkness)，毛姆的《面纱》(Painted Veil)，还有奈保尔的《河湾》(A Bend in the River)，每一部都通过令人难忘的角色经受的磨难，来揭示殖民主义的内在缺陷。这些书让我第一次意识到，有一些国家是西方所不能理解的，除此之外的任何推定都是极端狂妄自大之举，理所当然地会以白人的垮台收场，无可避免。
The exoticism of those novels that I was taken in by turned out to reveal a complexity of culture that doesn’t easily yield to an outsider’s — and perhaps especially not to a Westerner’s — worldview. I believe those books helped me understand my family’s complicity in a corrupt and confusing past. The layers of meaning about oppression and injustice brought on by colonialist racism were like the dust that covered everything in my grandfather’s descriptions of Shanxi — layered, dense and impossible to sweep away.
我所迷恋的那些小说的异国情调，展示了文化的复杂性，那些文化不会轻易屈服于外来世界观——或许尤其是西方的世界观。我相信，这些书让我理解了我的家族在一段腐朽和混乱的历史中扮演的共谋角色。殖民主义和种族主义带来的压迫和不公正包含着多层含义，就像是我祖父对山西的描述中覆盖着一切的黄土——层层叠叠、密密实实、无法扫除。
My father once said to me, only half in jest, that “political scientists are all failed novelists.” I suspect he meant that academics shared with artists the impulse to tell a story, but that statistics, studies and even firsthand fact-finding alone made an incomplete picture. His deference to art was a kind gesture toward me, a young writer aspiring to create it, but also an acknowledgment that art provides the transformative vision that turns a place on a map into a deeply felt world. It offers the reader hope of redemption and a new path — a way out through human understanding.
我父亲曾经半开玩笑地对我说：“政治学家都是没有成功的小说家。”我觉得他的意思是，学者与艺术家都有一种讲故事的冲动，但只靠统计、研究，甚至第一手的事实调查，构成的是一幅不完整的图画。他对艺术的尊重是对我做出的一种友好姿态，当时我是一个年轻作家，有志于艺术创造，此外那也是一种承认，承认艺术提供了具有转变力的视野，把地图上的某个地方变化成一个深刻感受到的世界。它为读者提供了救赎的希望和新的道路，一个经由人性理解的出路。
Aleksandar Hemon says that “expertise is the enemy of imagination,” and I can’t help but add that imagination, in the end, is our most profound and surprising teacher. It reveals truths we couldn’t otherwise believe.
亚历山大·黑蒙(Aleksandar Hemon)说：“专业知识是想象力的敌人。”我忍不住要补充说：到头来，想象力才是我们最深刻、最意外的老师。它所揭示的真理，我们采用其他方式是不会相信的。
What I know of China I have inherited from my family who lived there, and also from a white Ming cup, cherry blossom rug and a Little Red Book. These talismans have spoken volumes to me over the years. They helped create a land that inhabited, and even haunted, my imagination. The China of my novel is a dusty, rugged and exotic place that is not exactly on any map. Travelers, scholars and the Chinese themselves must explain the real China. I have tried to create an altogether different country that I hope will provide another landscape for the truth.
我对中国的了解，既来自曾经在中国生活过的家人，也来自一只明代的白色杯子、樱花地毯和一本红宝书。多年来，这些护身符对我诉说了万语千言。在它们的帮助下，一个国度在我的想象中成形，驻留心头，萦绕不去。我小说中的中国尘土飞扬、起伏不平，充满异国情调，它其实不存在于地图上任何一个地方。游客、学者和中国人自己肯定会解释真实的中国是什么样。我则试图塑造出一个完全不同的国度，希望能为真相描绘出另一幅风景画。