Last week, a 14-year-old girl in the southwestern megalopolis of Chongqing reportedly ran away from home for three days to protest her parents’ new car purchase.
上周，中国西南部大都市重庆传出报道，一名14岁女孩为了抗议父母购买新车的举动，离家出走了三天。
What could possibly have sparked such an indignant response? Was the girl, Ting Ting, disappointed by the model they chose? Was the new vehicle perhaps not snazzy enough for her liking? Did her parents pick the wrong color?
是什么激起了如此愤懑的反应？这位名叫婷婷的女孩，是对他们选择的型号感到失望？还是新车不够时髦，入不了她的眼？还是她父母选错了颜色？
No. Ting Ting objected to the fact that the car was Japanese.
都不是。婷婷的反对是因为那是辆日本车。
“I cannot have parents who lack a moral backbone,” she told reporters in Kaixian, a suburb of Chongqing. “I firmly refuse to condone my parents’ decision. If they buy a car, they should buy a Chinese car. This kind of behavior shows that they have no dignity.”
“我不能接受这么没有骨气的父母，”她在重庆郊区的开县接受采访时说，“我坚决不同意买日本车，要买就买中国车！他们这样做是没有尊严的行为。”
According to a report published in Southern Weekend, Ting Ting did not return home until her parents agreed to return the car and admit that they were wrong.Although somewhat extreme, Ting Ting’s attitude reflects the persistent animosity that many Chinese feel toward Japan over territorial disputes and historical frictions dating back more than a century. Those tensions bubbled over in late 2012, when the Japanese government purchased the Senkaku Islands, a small and uninhabited island chain in the East China Sea, from their private owner. The Chinese government accused Japan of stealing the islands, which China also claims and calls the Diaoyu.
据《南方周末》发表的一篇报道，直到父母同意将车退掉并承认错误后，婷婷才回到家中。她的行为较为极端，但也反映了许多中国人一直以来对日本的敌意，这种敌意来源于两国的领土争端以及最早可以追溯到一个多世纪前的冲突。2012年末，日本政府从私人业主手中购买了尖阁诸岛，从而再一次激起这种敌意。这个中国东海上由一系列无人居住的小岛组成的岛链，在中国称为钓鱼岛，中国亦声明对其拥有主权，并指责日本窃取这些岛屿。
Large-scale public protests erupted across China, some of which turned violent. Japanese cars and businesses were vandalized and, in Xi’an, the owner of a Japanese vehicle was nearly beaten to death by a mob because he was driving a Toyota. Some Chinese resorted to a boycott of Japanese exports, an approach that appears to have struck a chord with Ting Ting.
中国各地举行了大规模的公开抗议活动，其中有的演变为暴力事件。日本的汽车和企业遭受破坏，西安的一位车主被一群人殴打，险些致死，只因为他开的是一辆丰田。一些中国人选择抵制从日本进口的产品，看来这个想法在婷婷这里引起了共鸣。
“We Chinese should not use the money we’ve earned to support our enemies,” she told reporters from the local Kaizhou Daily newspaper. “If my classmates find out that my parents purchased a Japanese car, they are all going to make fun of me.”
“我们是中国人为什么要拿自己的钱去支持我们的敌人，”她对本地报纸《开州日报》的记者说，“同学们知道我家买日本车都会瞧不起我的。”
Last year, Toyota and Honda reported their first ever annual sales declines in China, which surpassed the United States as the largest vehicle market in the world in 2009. Japan’s three largest automakers — Toyota, Nissan and Honda — registered a rebound in sales in September 2013, part of an eight-month high in China’s booming automobile sector.
中国于2009年取代了美国成为全球最大的汽车市场，但丰田和本田公司在中国的年销售额去年出现了首次下滑。日本的三家车厂——丰田、日产和本田——在2013年9月实现了销售额的回升，当时中国汽车市场气势如虹，处在八个月以来的最高点。
In Beijing, many Japanese cars still sport bumper stickers that attempt to discourage potential vandals. A common one reads: “The car is Japanese, but the owner’s heart is Chinese.”
在北京，许多日本车至今还会贴些标语以免被毁坏。经常见到的一条是这样写的：“车是日本车，心是中国心。”