UNITED NATIONS — The United States and China have agreed to stiffen international financial sanctions against North Korea in a major shift for Beijing, which has long been unwilling to further isolate its intransigent ally.
联合国——美国和中国达成协议，同意加强针对朝鲜的国际金融制裁。这是北京做出的重大转变，因为长期以来，它一直不愿进一步孤立这个固执的盟友。
Whether the development, confirmed Thursday by diplomats at the United Nations Security Council, means that China will take steps to prevent North Korean ships from bringing coal and iron ore to Chinese ports remains unclear. The United States had pushed for a partial ban on permitting North Korean ships to enter ports around the world.
联合国安理会的外交官本周四证实了此事，但尚不清楚这个进展是否意味着中国将采取措施，阻止朝鲜船只将煤炭和铁矿石运至中国港口。美国此前一直在推动一项部分禁令，希望阻止朝鲜船只进入世界各地的港口。
China is Pyongyang’s main economic trading partner — and its principal diplomatic backer. In the past, after previous nuclear tests condemned by the Security Council, China has agreed only to banning weapons transfers and limited sanctions against those linked to the nuclear program.
中国是平壤的主要经济贸易伙伴——也是其主要的外交支持者。以前，安全理事会谴责朝鲜核试验之后，中国只会赞同武器转运禁令和涉及核计划的少量制裁。
The draft resolution, which United States officials said they intended to circulate Thursday among the 15 members of the Security Council, marks a diplomatic pivot for the Chinese. It seems to have been sparked by North Korea’s claim in early January that it had tested its first hydrogen bomb.
这次的决议草案标志着中国外交政策的转向。朝鲜在今年1月初声称进行了第一颗氢弹的实验，似乎是引发这种转向的原因。美国官员表示打算本周四在安理会的15个成员国中分发该草案。
American and Chinese diplomats have spent the past two months negotiating the text and pushing for ways to better enforce existing sanctions. That has been the principal challenge with this and other sanctions.
美中两国的外交官花了近两个月，对草案文本进行协商，并对如何更好地执行现有的制裁展开讨论。无论是此次制裁，还是其他的制裁，面临的主要挑战均在于此。
The proposal is likely to come up for a vote in the coming days.
该提案很可能在未来几天进行投票。
The Americans had initially proposed a long draft measure that, according to one security council diplomat, contained many provisions that were never going to fly with Beijing. “It was designed to get the Chinese to sit up and take notice,” the diplomat said. “It did that.”
安理会的一名外交官表示，美国人最初提出了一份长长的草案，包含了很多绝对不会获得北京同意的条款。“其目的是引起中国的重视，”这名外交官说。“结果奏效了。”
Negotiations continued, with the United States eager to win Chinese backing to make sure the new sanctions would be adopted — and not vetoed.
谈判得以继续进行，美国急于赢得中国的支持，以便确保新的制裁措施将被采纳——而不是遭到否决。
The agreement follows a meeting this week between Secretary of State John Kerry and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, in Washington. On Wednesday, President Obama joined a meeting between Mr. Wang and Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser.
这项协议是美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和中国外长王毅本周在华盛顿举行会议后达成的。周三，奥巴马总统出席了王毅和国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)的会晤。
The White House said in a statement that the two countries “agreed on the importance of a strong and united international response to North Korea’s provocations, including through a U.N. Security Council resolution that goes beyond previous resolutions. They agreed that they will not accept North Korea as a nuclear weapons state.”
白宫发表声明称，两国“一致认为，对于朝鲜的挑衅，做出有力而一致的国际反应十分重要。这包括出台一份力度超越以往的联合国安理会决议。两国均认同，他们不会接受朝鲜成为核武国家。”