BEIJING — Chinese officials announced Thursday that they were offering a total of 10 billion renminbi, or $1.65 billion, this year to cities and regions that make “significant progress” in air pollution control, according to a report by Xinhua, the state-run news agency.
北京——据官方媒体新华社报道，中国官员于周四宣布，今年将为那些在空气污染治理方面取得“重大进步”的城市和地区提供总计100亿元人民币的奖励。
The announcement came from the State Council, China’s cabinet, after it held a meeting on Wednesday to discuss, among other issues, the country’s immense air pollution problem. “Control of PM2.5 and PM10 should be a key task,” the State Council said in a statement, referring to two kinds of particulate matter that are deemed harmful to human health.
中国国务院在周三举行会议，讨论空气污染严重等问题，并于会后公布了上述信息。国务院发表声明称“要以PM2.5和PM10治理为突破口”，PM2.5和PM10指的是两种对人体健康有害的颗粒物。
The meeting was presided over by Li Keqiang, a member of the Communist Party’s ruling Politburo Standing Committee and China’s prime minister.
会议由中共中央政治局常委、总理李克强主持。
The announcement of the financial incentives revealed how difficult it has been for some leaders in Beijing to get many Chinese companies and government officials to comply with environmental regulations. Though central officials have been saying with growing vigor that pollution of all kinds must be curbed, their efforts to force other parts of the bureaucracy and the state-run economy to obey rules have been stymied by the self-interest of some groups.
政府宣布的上述财政激励政策，说明北京的领导人很难使众多中国公司和政府官员遵守环境法规。虽然中央官员不断加大措辞力度，强调必须遏制各种污染，但他们迫使其他官僚机构和国企遵守规定的举措仍受阻于一些群体的自利行为。
For example, the state-owned oil companies exert enormous influence on environmental policy, including the setting of fuel standards, and sometimes ignore orders from officials to upgrade their products.
例如，国有石油公司能够对环境政策施加巨大影响，包括燃料标准的制定。有些时候，它们还对官方的产品改良要求置若罔闻。
On Thursday, Chinese news organizations reported that the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences had deemed Beijing to be “almost unfavorable for human living.”
周四，中国新闻机构报道称，上海社会科学院认为北京这座城市已“接近不适合人类居住”。
The judgment was part of an annual report on the livability of 40 world cities released by the organization, which is tied to the Chinese government.
这个结论来自该机构发布的40个国际城市宜居性年度报告，该机构属于中国政府。
Beijing ranked second worst in environmental conditions, and Shanghai was the fifth worst. Other indexes used to evaluate the cities included economics, governance and cultural innovation, according to China Daily, an official English-language newspaper.
在生态环境方面，北京排名倒数第二，上海排名倒数第五。据官方英文报纸《中国日报》报道，其他的城市评估指数包括经济、治理和文化创新。
Over all, Shanghai ranked 21st and Beijing ranked 31st after the six indexes were tallied. Tokyo, London, Paris, New York and Singapore made up the top five.
总的来说，综合六项指标，上海位列第21名，北京排名第31。东京、伦敦、巴黎、纽约和新加坡分列前五名。
The three cities with the best environmental rankings were Stockholm, Vienna and Zurich. Moscow had the lowest ranking.
在环境方面，排名前三的是斯德哥尔摩、维也纳和苏黎世。莫斯科排名垫底。
The news reports did not give details on what specific criteria and methods were used for ranking cities in each index.
这些新闻报道没有详细说明各项指数城市排名的具体标准和方法。
Last year, more than 100 cities in China had an average of 29.9 smoggy days, which was a 52-year high, China Daily reported, though it did not explain what constituted a smoggy day.
《中国日报》报道，去年，100多个中国城市的平均雾霾天数达到了29.9天，创52年来的新高。不过，该报没有解释雾霾天的标准。
The Xinhua report on the State Council meeting said that the concentration of PM2.5, a fine particulate matter that lodges deep in the lungs and enters the bloodstream, increased by 56 percent in December compared with the month before, based on monitoring results for 74 Chinese cities. The measured concentration of PM10, a coarser particulate matter, rose by 30 percent that month.
新华社有关国务院会议的那篇报道称，中国74个城市的监测结果显示，12月的PM2.5浓度比前一月增加了56%。PM2.5是一种微细颗粒物，可以深入人的肺部，进而进入血液。同月测得的PM10浓度则增加了30%。PM10是一种体积更大的颗粒物。
Last month, Chinese news organizations reported that December was the worst month for air pollution in 2013. More than 80 percent of the cities with official air monitoring devices failed to meet the national air quality standard for half of December.
上月，中国新闻机构报道称，12月是2013年空气污染最严重的一个月。在官方配备空气监测设备的城市中，超过80%的城市未达到全国空气质量标准的时间长达半个月。
The State Council announcement said that nationwide coal consumption must be controlled, more vehicles should run on high-quality gasoline, energy use in the construction industry should be lowered, and cleaner boilers should be used.
国务院宣布，必须控制全国范围的煤炭消费总量、增加使用优质汽油的车辆、降低建筑业能耗、使用更清洁的锅炉。
The majority of China’s energy use is based on coal, whose burning, besides being the major cause of air pollution in the country, also contributes to greenhouse gases and global warming. China has surpassed the United States as the largest emitter of greenhouse gases and the biggest coal consumer in the world. Xinhua reported last month that the country’s coal production increased slightly in 2013 to 3.7 billion tons. Consumption was 3.61 billion tons, or 2.6 percent higher than the previous year.
中国的大部分能耗都以煤炭为基础。煤炭燃烧不仅是导致中国空气污染的主要原因，还会造成温室气体增加，导致全球变暖。中国已经超过美国，成为了全世界最大的温室气体排放国和煤炭消耗国。新华社上月报道称，中国2013年的煤炭产量略有上升，达到37亿吨。煤炭消费总量为36.1亿吨，比前一年增加了2.6%。
In July 2013, the Ministry of Environmental Protection ordered more than 15,000 companies regarded as major sources of pollution to report pollutant discharge levels starting this January. The companies account for more than 80 percent of pollution of various kinds in China, according to one official news report. The ministry’s order also required government agencies to supervise the release of pollutants by the companies and their attempts at self-monitoring.
2013年7月，中国环境保护部颁布命令，被视为主要污染源的逾1.5万家公司须从今年1月开始上报污染物排放量。一份官方新闻报道称，全国的各种污染当中，超过80%都来自这些企业。环保部还在命令中要求政府机构监督这些企业的污染物排放，以及它们进行自我监测的努力。
The order was praised by Ma Jun, a well-known environmental advocate who promotes transparency efforts, but it is unclear to what extent the companies and government officials across China are now following the mandate.
这一命令得到了提倡透明行动的知名环保人士马军的称赞。不过，目前尚不清楚，相关企业和全国各地的政府官员在多大程度上执行了这一命令。
Throughout Thursday, a familiar gray haze cloaked Beijing. At the day’s start, the United States Embassy’s air monitor in Beijing rated the air as “hazardous,” a level at which all outdoor activity should be avoided. The concentration of PM2.5 at the time was 268 micrograms per cubic meter, or 11 times the recommended exposure limit set by the World Health Organization. The air stayed at unhealthy levels into the evening.
周四一整天，熟悉的灰色雾霾笼罩了北京。当天一早，北京美国大使馆的空气监测设备就显示空气指数为“危险”，在这种空气质量下，人们应该避免一切室外活动。当时的PM2.5浓度为每立方米268微克，是世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)建议的接触上限的11倍。一直到当天晚上，北京的空气质量一直保持在不健康水平。