HONG KONG — There is a Vancouver Forest in Beijing, a Thames Town in Shanghai and an Oriental Yosemite in Dalian, China. But the wave of names like those that have been tacked onto new housing developments around China in recent years could end after a call to stamp out “foreign” and “bizarre” names.
香港——北京有个地方叫温哥华森林、上海有个地方叫泰晤士小镇、大连有个东方优山美地。近年来，这类名字席卷了中国各地的新建房地产项目。但在清理“洋”、“怪”地名的要求提出后，这股风潮可能会结束。
The minister of civil affairs, Li Liguo, said on Tuesday that names that “damage sovereignty and national dignity” or “violate the socialist core values and conventional morality” would be targeted, the state news agency Xinhua reported.
官方通讯社新华社报道，民政部长李立国周二表示，要整改“有损国家主权和民族尊严、违背社会主义核心价值观、严重背离公序良俗”的名字。
Mr. Li said that odd names of roads, bridges, buildings and residential compounds would face scrutiny. Housing developments have been a big source of bizarre monikers. Beijing alone has Chateau Regalia, Merlin Champagne Town, La Grande Villa, Australian Garden and Chateau Regency.
李立国称，将对道路、桥梁、大型建筑物和居民区进行重点整治。房地产项目是怪名字的一大源头。仅北京就有丽高王府(Chateau Regalia)、美林香槟小镇(Merlin Champagne Town)、誉天下(La Grande Villa)、澳大利亚花园以及和乔丽晶(Chateau Regency)。
Developers in China say the international flavor helps sell houses.
中国开发商表示，国际范有助于房屋销售。
The concern over names has been raised as part of an official Chinese geographical survey that began in 2014. In addition to the explosion in foreign names, there has been a noticeable disappearance of traditional names, Mr. Li said. The survey found that since 1986, 60,000 township names and 400,000 village names have fallen from use as a result of development and urbanization, The Beijing News reported.
在中国官方2014年开始进行的一项地理调查中，地名问题作为其中的一部分被提了出来。李立国称，除外国地名出现爆发式增加外，传统地名大量消失。据《新京报》报道，调查发现，1986年以来，伴随着城市发展和城市化，中国约有6万个乡镇名字和40万个村名被弃用。
Rectifying the names could face hurdles, however. A 1996 regulation prohibits the use of foreign people or place names for locations in China, including housing developments, The Beijing News said. But the rules have had little impact.
然而，改正这些名字可能会遇到障碍。《新京报》称，1996年的一项规定禁止在地名中使用外国的人名或地名，包括房地产项目。但相关规定几乎没有起到实效。
Henan Province has tried to put in effect its own set of rules governing place names that also prohibits foreign names. But a lack of enforcement powers and procedures means it has had little consequence, China National Radio reported.
河南省尝试过施行自己的一系列地名规定，禁止起外国地名。但中央人民广播电台报道称，由于缺乏约束力和执法程序，这些规定几乎没有什么成效。
One effort to alter a street name in the Henan provincial capital of Zhengzhou stalled after opposition by local residents. The official reason for the change was not because of a foreign name, but because the Chinese character used for the street was often mispronounced by people unfamiliar with the place, China National Radio said. Residents objected to the move and filed a lawsuit to block it, citing the potential loss of historical identity.
在河南省会郑州，一项给街道改名的行动在遭到当地居民的反对后，搁置了下来。中央人民广播电台报道，官方要改名理由不是因为原来的名字是“洋名”，而是因为对当地不熟悉的人，往往会读错原来的名字。居民们反对这一做法，并起诉到了法院，要求撤销改名的决定，称改名可能会丧失历史感。