When the World Leisure Games open in the port city of Qingdao on Saturday, with a song and dance extravaganza by 2,400 citizens celebrating China’s tradition of dancing in public squares, they will be happening in a country where most people don’t, or can’t, take paid vacations – despite having the right to.
上周六，世界休闲体育大会(World Leisure Games)在中国港口城市青岛召开，2400名市民载歌载舞，展现中国的广场舞风俗。但实际上在这个国家，大多数人没有或者无法享受带薪年假——尽管他们拥有这样的权利。
More than 72 percent of working Chinese have not taken a paid vacation in the last three years, Xinhua, the state news agency, reported recently, although the Constitution recognizes the right of all working people “to rest” and state labor regulations specify the right to paid leave.
虽然宪法规定所有劳动者都拥有“休息”的权利，而且《劳动法》也规定了带薪休假的权利，但新华网近日刊文称，中国逾72%的人在过去三年里没有休过带薪年假。
Fewer than 14 percent of Chinese workers took one paid vacation in the last three years, while just under 8 percent took three.
在过去的三年里，只有不到14%的中国工人休过一次带薪假期，而休过三次假的人数略低于8%。
Among the reasons, according to Xinhua, which compiled its figures from an online poll: Workers “don’t dare” (22 percent), “don’t have the time” (22 percent) or “don’t want to because it would affect their future development” (nearly 10 percent).
新华网的这篇文章总结了一项在线调查的结果。它显示，不休假的原因包括：“不敢”(22%)、“没有时间”(22%)，或者“会影响自己未来的发展”（近10%）。
Government officials and employees of state-run companies, as well as employees of foreign companies, were the most likely to take a paid vacation. Private Chinese companies, especially smaller ones, had the worst record for granting employees paid time off, Xinhua said.
最有可能休带薪假的是政府官员、国有企业员工，以及外企员工。而中国的私营公司，尤其是规模较小的企业，为员工提供带薪假的状况是最差的，新华网的文章称。
Article 1 of the Constitution says China is a socialist country “led by the working class.” But the series of market-driven reforms that have swept the country since the late 1970s, coupled with weak legal protections, have made it difficult for workers to assert their rights.
中国宪法第一条写道，中国是“工人阶级领导的”社会主义国家。但是，自70年代末以市场为导向的改革全面铺开以来，工人一直很难维护自己的权利，法律保护薄弱也是一个原因。
In the city of Shenyang in northeastern China on Wednesday, workers at a hot-pot restaurant kowtowed to their bosses, shouting: “Thank you, boss, for the work!”
上周三，在中国东北城市沈阳，一家火锅店的工人在向老板磕头，高喊：“感谢老总，给我工作!”
Officials appear worried about the punishing hours to which workers are subjected — but, judging by a notice issued last month by the State Council, that is mostly because they hope more free time will translate into more tourist consumption, at a time of slowing economic growth.
官员们看似在担心员工的工作时间太长——但是，从国务院上月发布的公告来看，他们主要是希望更多的休息时间，可以转化为旅游消费，在中国经济增长放缓之际发挥刺激作用。
In the notice, titled “Opinions on Further Stimulating Investment and Boosting Consumption in the Tourist Industry,” the council called on companies to grant their workers a two-and-a-half day weekend.
这份公告名为《国务院办公厅关于进一步促进旅游投资和消费的若干意见》，提倡每个周末休两天半。
Under council regulations that took effect in 2008, all Chinese workers with up to 10 years of service are entitled to five days of paid annual vacation beginning after one full year of work. Workers with 10 to 20 years of service are allowed 10 days of vacation and there should be 15 days for those who have completed 20 years.
根据2008年生效的一项国务院条例，中国所有职工工龄满10年后，有权享有5天带薪年假。10到20年工龄可以休10天，工龄达到20年可以休15天。
Article 1 of the regulations also makes clear that the government regards rest as necessary to enable workers to work harder. The regulations were drawn up, it says, “to safeguard employees’ right to rest and take leave, and mobilize their work enthusiasm.”
该条例的第1条也明确表示，政府认为，为了让工人更加努力地工作，休息是必要的。条例中写道，之所以制定条例，是“为了维护职工休息休假权利，调动职工工作积极性”。