China’s urban management officers, or chengguan, regularly make the news, at home and abroad, usually for unpleasant encounters with members of the public. It is not especially surprising, then, that a new report ranks them as the country’s least popular officials.
中国的城管经常出现在国内外的新闻中，往往是因为与公众发生了不愉快。所以，当有份新报告将他们列为中国最不受欢迎的公职人员时，倒也并不是特别出乎预料。
The report by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, to be released next week but excerpted this week in state news media, ranks Chinese government officials by popularity, and chengguan place last with “worst public image.” Ahead of chengguan are school and hospital officials, village cadres, the police and bosses of state-owned enterprises.
这份报告由中国社科院撰写，定于下周公布，但部分内容由官方媒体于本周披露出来。该研究将中国的政府官员按照受欢迎度排名，结果城管以“形象最差”垫底。比城管靠前的依次为学校领导、医院领导、村干部、警察和国企领导。
Chengguan, which literally means “city managers,” enforce rules that keep streets orderly and traffic flowing smoothly. But according to incidents reported in news media, many are bullies, resorting to violence and stirring public resentment.
城管的字面意思是“城市管理员”，负责执行保障街道有序与出行畅通的各种规定。不过，新闻媒体报道的种种事件显示，许多城管恃强凌弱，诉诸暴力，从而引发公愤。
In one recent case in Beijing, four chengguan beat a small dog in front of his owner when he could not produce registration papers for his pet. In April, in Zhejiang Province, chengguan beat a man who was filming them as they investigated a vendor whose stove was blocking a passageway, causing him to collapse and spit blood. The assault triggered retaliation from bystanders who overturned vehicles and injured five chengguan. Last July, a watermelon vendor in Hunan Province died after a fight with four chengguan. The officers were convicted of intentional injury and sentenced to prison.
不久前在北京，四名城管当着主人的面打死一只小公狗，就因为他没法提供宠物的登记证件。今年4月在浙江省，城管调查一名炉灶堵住了通道的小贩时，一名男子在旁拍摄，于是城管上前殴打，直到他倒在地上，口吐鲜血。此举导致旁观者的报复，他们掀翻了城管的车辆，打伤了五名城管。去年7月，湖南省的一名瓜贩与四名城管发生肢体冲突后死亡。后来，他们被判故意伤害罪名成立，并因此入狱。
Some commentators, however, said the officers deserved some sympathy.
不过，有评论人士认为，城管也应当得到一些同情。
An analysis in the Legal Daily newspaper said that the unpopularity of chengguan stemmed from the nature of their job, which requires bringing people into line with regulations, rather than accommodating them.
《法制日报》的一篇分析文章指出，城管形象差源于其工作性质，因为这决定了他们只能是管制为主、服务为辅。
Qiao Zhifeng, a blogger, wrote that the dismal ranking was a little unfair to the officers. “Unlike those just sitting in their offices, they are on the front lines,” he wrote. The report “exposes problems with the system and the chengguan shouldn’t shoulder all the blame themselves.”
博客作者乔志峰撰文指出，城管排名最差让他有点替他们抱不平。“相对于其他那些坐办公室的群体，城管是真正在一线干实活的，”他写道。报告“背后暴露的问题大多是体制上的，不能让他们把所有黑锅都自己背。”
Despite the general loathing for chengguan, Chinese college graduates compete to join their ranks, at least in Shanghai. According to a report in the Shanghai newspaper Oriental Morning, 180 university graduates, including 119 with master’s degrees and two with Ph.D.s, applied for 60 chengguan positions in the city last May. A person in charge of hiring was quoted as saying that, even though chengguan are often “demonized” and the work is exhausting, the positions still attract young people with advanced degrees because they are “formally part of the civil service and have corresponding benefits.”
尽管公众普遍厌恶城管，但中国的大学毕业生仍争相加入他们的队伍，至少在上海如此。当地的《东方早报》报道，去年5月，在进入一次城管面试的180人中，包括119名硕士和2名博士，他们共同竞争60个席位。负责招聘的一名人士接受采访称，虽说城管工作看似辛苦又常被“妖魔化”，但仍能吸引高学历的年轻人，其主要原因是城管“有正式编制，又参照公务员待遇。”