HONG KONG — Instability continued to roil China’s stock markets on Tuesday in spite of new pledges of support from the government.
香港——尽管政府做出新的支持承诺，但中国股市周二仍继续受不稳定性的困扰。
Coming off its biggest one-day decline since 2007, Shanghai’s main share index seesawed throughout Tuesday — falling as much as 5 percent as trading opened and rising 1 percent at one point — to end down 1.7 percent.
上海的主要股票指数出现了2007年以来的最大单日跌幅之后，在周二整个交易日中持续动荡，开盘时曾大跌5％，后一度出现1％的涨幅，最终以1.7％的跌幅收盘。
The precarious display on China’s bourses after several weeks of relatively calm movements has shaken global financial markets. Prices for metals like copper, of which China is a major buyer, fell to six-year lows during the past two days. Oil has also slumped, trading closer to the six-year lows it reached this spring.
经过几周的相对平稳之后，中国股市再现摇摇欲坠的走势，这已让全球金融市场受到影响。铜以及其它金属的价格，在过去两天里已跌至六年以来的最低点，中国是铜的主要买家。石油价格也有所下跌，正在接近今年春天出现过的六年以来的最低点。
“This is not the first time that massive volatility has found its way into the Chinese equity market,” said Peter Alexander, the founder and managing director of Z-Ben Advisors, a financial consultancy based in Shanghai. “But this is the first time in modern history that the Chinese markets are on the global radar screen.”
“中国股市出现大规模动荡已不止一次了，”总部设在上海的金融咨询公司泽奔咨询(Z-Ben Advisors)创始人兼常务董事张磊德(Peter Alexander)说。“但这是中国股市有史以来在全球关注之下首次出现这种动荡。”
The renewed volatility came despite reassurances from the government that it would continue to support the stability of the markets.
虽然政府承诺将继续支持市场的稳定，但动荡仍未停止。
After the 8.5 percent plunge in the index on Monday, China’s central bank issued a statement on Tuesday before markets reopened, saying that “stable financial markets are expected to continue supporting steady gains in the real economy.”
上证指数周一暴跌8.5％之后，中国央行在周二股市开盘之前发表声明称，将“稳定金融市场预期，继续支持实体经济企稳上升”。
In the coming months, the bank pledged to “be flexible in putting to use various monetary policy tools to maintain liquidity at a reasonable level.” The People’s Bank of China, the central bank, has cut interest rates four times since November. It has also moved several times to free banks to lend more of their deposits.
央行承诺，在未来几个月，将“灵活运用多种货币政策工具，保持流动性合理适度”。身为央行的中国人民银行自去年11月以来，已经四次降息，并几次放松准备金的要求，让银行能把更多的存款借出去。
But the recent unraveling of China’s stock rally, which had added around $7 trillion in market value in the year ended in mid-June, could weigh on the country’s economic growth in the coming months.
中国股市的反弹，曾让其在截止于六月中旬的一年里增加了大约七万亿美元的市值，股市反弹最近的瓦解可能会在未来数月拖累中国经济的增长。
The authorities responded to the sell-off, which began in June, by introducing a 120 billion renminbi, or $20 billion, market stabilization fund that is backed by the central bank. They also suspended initial public offerings of stock and encouraged executives to buy company shares, while promising to crack down on short-selling, or bets against a stock, and market manipulation.
股市的抛售是6月份开始的，当局的回应是成立一个由央行支持的1200亿元人民币的市场稳定基金。政府还暂停了股票首次公开发行，并鼓励企业高管购买公司股票，同时承诺打击做空和市场操纵行为，做空指的是打赌股价会下跌。
Those measures appeared to reassure investors. Before plummeting on Monday, markets had been rebounding modestly in recent weeks.
这些措施似乎一度恢复了投资者的信心。周一再次暴跌之前，股市曾在最近几周里出现小幅反弹。
As the turbulence continued, 64 percent of the 1,125 stocks that make up the Shanghai composite index closed lower on Tuesday. The companies whose shares rose included state-backed stock brokerage houses, which rebounded strongly from the plunge on Monday. Shares in Citic Securities, Haitong Securities and Guotai Junan Securities all rose significantly.
随着股市的持续动荡，构成上海综合指数的1125家公司中，有64％的股票周二收低。股票上涨的公司包括得到国家支持的股票经纪公司，其股票在周一暴跌之后出现强劲反弹。中信证券、海通证券和国泰君安证券的股票均有显著上升。
Laggards included the CRRC Corporation, a state-owned train maker whose shares fell 5.7 percent on heavy trading, and Ping An Insurance, which closed down 4 percent.
股票下跌的公司包括，国有火车制造商、中国中车股份有限公司，其股票在高成交量中下跌了5.7％，还有平安保险，其股票收盘时下跌了4％。
Analysts attributed the sell-off that started on Monday to a number of potential factors. They included lackluster economic data and fears that the state may be removing some support for share prices. But most analysts expect the government to continue its intervention.
分析人士把周一开始的新一轮抛售归因于一些可能的因素，包括缺乏起色的经济数据、以及对政府可能会撤出一些支持股票价格的措施的担心。但多数分析师预计政府将继续采取干预措施。
“The government intervened on the way up; they tried to avoid a bubble when the market was rallying quite quickly,” Herald van der Linde, head of Asia equity strategy in Hong Kong for HSBC, said Tuesday in a telephone interview. “They’ve obviously also intervened on the way down, so I suspect that they’ll try to do that again in order to stabilize the market.”
“政府在股市上升时曾进行干预；在股价迅速飘升时，他们试图避免出现市场泡沫，”汇丰银行(HSBC)香港的亚太区证券策略主管林传英(Herald van der Linde)周二在接受电话采访时说。“在股市下滑时，他们显然也进行了干预，所以我觉得他们为了稳定市场，会再次试图进行干预。”
In fact, the message from Beijing has so far been clear on this account. For example, late Monday evening, the China Securities Regulatory Commission issued a statement responding to recent news reports that the state was retreating from its market rescue operations.
实际上，北京迄今为止在这个问题上发出的信息很明确。比如，中国证券监督管理委员会在周一晚间发表声明，对最近的有关国家会退出就市的新闻报道做出回应。
“This is completely untrue,” Zhang Xiaojun, a spokesman for the regulator, said in the statement. “The commission will continue to stabilize the market and provide reassurance, and will use all its resources working toward the goal of preventing systemic risk.”
“这完全不符合事实，”证监会新闻发言人张晓军说。“证监会将继续把稳定市场、稳定人心、防范系统性风险作为工作目标，全力做好相关工作。”
Mr. Zhang also rejected claims that the China Securities Finance Corporation, the state-backed entity charged with managing the market stabilization fund, has withdrawn support.
张晓军还否认了中国证券金融公司已经退出救市的说法，中国证券金融公司是政府支持的、负责管理市场稳定基金的机构。
The agency “did not withdraw, will add support and will continue to play a positive stabilizing role in the market,” he added.
张晓军说，“中国证券金融公司没有退出，并将择机增持，继续发挥好稳定市场的职能。”