HONG KONG — In unusually blunt criticism, a Chinese government agency on Wednesday took aim at the e-commerce giant Alibaba Group for what it said were unlicensed merchants, fake goods and other illegal practices on its hugely popular shopping websites.
香港——一家中国政府机构周三把目标对准了电商巨头阿里巴巴集团，做出了不同寻常的直接批评。理由是，阿里巴巴广受欢迎的购物网站上存在无照经营商家、假冒商品和其他非法行为。
China’s main corporate regulator, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, released a report summarizing its findings of the deficiencies on Alibaba’s sites, including Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com. In a statement on its website, the regulator said that after a thorough review, it had discovered “the long-term existence of illegal problems regarding the management of transaction activity and other issues.”
中国的主要企业监管机构国家工商行政管理总局发布了一份报告，总结了它在淘宝网和天猫等阿里巴巴网站上发现的问题。工商总局在网站上的声明中称，经过彻底审查，它发现“交易行为管理等方面长期存在的违法问题”。
The agency said that it had presented the findings to unidentified top Alibaba executives in a July 17 meeting at the company’s headquarters in the eastern city of Hangzhou, but that it had kept the results confidential at the time so as “not to affect Alibaba’s preparations for a stock market listing.”
工商总局称已于7月16日在中国东部城市杭州的阿里巴巴总部的一场会议上，将报告交给未指明身份的公司高管，但是当时为了“不影响阿里系上市前的工作进展”，就没有公布相关结果。
Alibaba went on to raise a record $25 billion in September in an initial public offering in New York.
9月，阿里巴巴在纽约的IPO中筹集了250亿美元（约合1563亿元人民币），创历史记录。
The regulator’s report, first made public on Wednesday, said it had found 19 problems in five main areas on Alibaba’s sites. Those included a number of unlicensed or unregistered vendors selling items, including knockoffs and goods that were improperly imported or banned from sale in China. Such items included fake cigarettes, wine and mobile phones; knockoff handbags; gambling equipment; wiretapping devices; and restricted types of knives.
最早于周三公布的工商总局报告称，它发现阿里巴巴网站5个方面的19个问题。其中，一些未办理营业执照或未登记注册的卖家在网站上销售仿制品，以及通过非正规渠道进口的或中国禁止销售的商品。假烟、假酒、高仿手机、假名牌包、赌博用品、窃听器材和管制刀具等物品都在其中。
Because of its failure to take action against these shortcomings, Alibaba “faces its biggest credibility crisis since it was founded,” according to the regulator’s Chinese-language report.
工商总局的中文报告称，由于未能采取措施治理这些问题，阿里巴巴“使自身面临成立以来的最大诚信危机”。
In a response on its verified account on the social messaging service Weibo, Taobao on Wednesday said that it had been a victim of fakes and had gone to great lengths to prevent them from being sold on its site.
周三，淘宝通过经过认证的微博账号回应称，自己也是假货的受害者，而且也为打击假货做了大量工作。
At the same time, the company took issue with the regulator’s approach, saying that it “welcomes fair and just supervision” but that the agency had not been objective.
与此同时，淘宝对监管机构的方法提出异议，称淘宝“欢迎公平公正的监督”，但该机构并不客观。
Taobao went further still, and in a rarely seen public criticism of a government official, it accused Liu Hongliang, a bureau chief at the administration for industry and commerce, of using inappropriate procedures in carrying out his investigation. The company said it would file a formal complaint to the agency.
淘宝更进一步，指责工商总局刘红亮司长在开展调查期间程序失当，该公司很少公开批评政府官员。淘宝表示，该公司将向国家工商总局正式投诉。
Mr. Liu “used mistaken methods to arrive at an conclusion that was not objective, causing very serious negative effects on Taobao and on China’s e-commerce industry participants,” the company said in its statement.
该公司在声明中称，刘红亮“用错误的方式得到的一个不客观的结论，对淘宝以及对中国电子商务从业者造成了非常严重的负面影响”。
Taobao, Alibaba’s largest site, operates as a marketplace where small vendors and individuals post listings for everything from car parts to Chinese medicine and footwear. In the past Alibaba has cited the sheer magnitude of the listings on Taobao as a reason it has been unable to clean up postings of fake or dangerous goods.
阿里巴巴旗下最大的网站淘宝网起到的是一个集市的作用，小商家和个人可以在该网站上出售从汽车配件到中药、鞋子的各种物品。阿里巴巴过去曾表示，由于淘宝上商品繁多，他们无法清除有关假冒及危险商品的信息。
Last month, Alibaba said it had spent about $160 million combating the sale of fake goods on its sites in 2013 and 2014. Still, many companies complain that Alibaba can be slow to pull down listings of pirated goods. Others point out that removed listings often quickly reappear under different names.
阿里巴巴在上个月表示，该公司在2013及2014年投入1.6亿美元（约合10亿元人民币）打击在其网站销售假冒商品的行为。但仍有很多公司抱怨称，阿里巴巴清除盗版商品的行动可能会很缓慢。还有一些公司则指出，被移除的商品通常很快就会以不同的商品名重新出现。
In another move to improve its reputation abroad, Alibaba said it would cooperate with the Consumer Product Safety Commission of the United States to ensure that goods banned by the American regulator would not be available for purchase in the country.
为了提高在国外的声誉，阿里巴巴采取了另一项举措，阿里巴巴表示，该公司将与美国消费品安全委员会(Consumer Product Safety Commission)合作，确保美国监管机构禁止出售的商品不会出现在该网站。