HONG KONG —  A bid by China’s central bank to curb soaring interest rates and relieve pressure on the financial system appeared to have come up short, as Chinese money market rates shrugged off the measure and continued to surge on Monday.
香港——中国央行控制利率飙升并缓解金融体系压力的努力似乎收效不佳，周一，中国货币市场的利率无视央行措施，继续猛涨。
The central bank, the People’s Bank of China, said late Friday that it had provided more than 300 billion renminbi, or about $50 billion, in short-term funds to selected banks over a three-day period that week. Even so, rates continued to rise on Monday in China’s money markets, a critical source of short-term financing for commercial banks and also for financial institutions engaged in risky, off-balance-sheet lending.
上周五晚间，中国央行中国人民银行表示，已在上周以短期资金的方式连续三天向选定的银行注入了超过3000亿人民币，大致相当于500亿美元。即使如此，中国货币市场的利率在周一继续走高。对商业银行和从事有风险的表外借贷业务的金融机构而言，货币市场是关键的短期融资渠道。
The environment is fanning fear of a potential credit crisis.
这样的状况促使人们担心信贷危机的到来。
One important figure, the seven-day repurchase rate, rose as high as 10 percent on Monday. That was double the rate of a week earlier and the highest level since June, when the central bank allowed rates to increase to curb speculative investment in the country’s sprawling shadow banking sector.
周一，七天回购利率这一重要指标涨到了高达10%。这是一周前利率的两倍，也是6月以来的最高水平。今年6月，为了打击中国规模庞大的影子银行业的投机投资活动，央行允许加息。
Left unchecked, the situation could leave some banks struggling to meet their obligations and could have implications for the broader economy.
若不加以控制，这种情况可能会导致部分银行难以履约，还可能对整体经济产生影响。
China’s banks typically scramble for short-term cash to meet month-, quarter- and year-end regulatory requirements. Demand for cash is also high among Chinese companies seeking to meet year-end payments, too.
中国的银行普遍会争夺短期现金，以达到月末、季末和年末的监管要求。需要进行年终结账的中国公司对现金的需求也很高。
Part of the reason for China’s liquidity shortage is that the central bank has been purposely refraining from its regular open-market operations — the buying and selling of money-market instruments to manage liquidity and interest rates. Such was the case in June. Analysts see this as a signal that the central bank is serious about reining in the shadow banking sector.
中国之所以出现流动性短缺，部分原因在于央行一直刻意遏制自己在公开市场的定期操作活动，即通过买卖货币市场工具来管理流动性和利率。今年6月的情况即是如此。分析师认为，这种情况是一个信号，表明央行对遏制影子银行业的态度是认真的。
But to help ordinary banks meet their day-to-day financing needs, the central bank has been resorting to a method that is less commonly used and less transparent.
不过，为了帮助普通银行满足日常的筹资需求，央行一直在求助于一种较少使用也较不透明的方法。
In a posting on its official account on Sina Weibo, China’s Twitter-like messaging service, the central bank confirmed on Friday that it had tried to ease pressure in money markets by providing assistance through short-term liquidity operations — an exceptional measure to provide funding selectively to large banks, which it did not identify.
上周五，央行在其新浪官方微博账号上发帖确认，为了缓解货币市场压力，已通过短期流动性调节工具(SLO)提供援助。SLO是一种有选择地向大银行提供融资的特殊措施。
The central bank noted that some commercial lenders appeared to be hoarding cash, with excess reserves in the banking system topping 1.5 trillion renminbi, or about $250 billion, an amount it described as “relatively high” when compared with the same period in previous years.
央行指出，一些商业银行似乎在囤积资金，银行系统超额备付已经超过1.5万亿元人民币，约合2500亿美元。央行表示，这一数字“为历史同期相对较高水平”。
“At the same time, we suggest the main commercial banks make rational adjustments to the structure of their assets and liabilities, and improve their liquidity management using a scientific and long-term approach,” the central bank said its statement.
央行在声明中说，“同时，（我们）提示主要商业银行合理调整资产负债结构，提升流动性管理的科学性和前瞻性。”