WASHINGTON — In 1971, an unexpected series of interactions between international table tennis players turned out to be the first indication of China’s willingness to engage with the United States after decades of estrangement. It presaged President Richard M. Nixon’s watershed visit to the country. This unlikely set of events later came to be known as Ping-Pong diplomacy. Now we could be witnessing the equivalent — call it shark-fin diplomacy — by which China signifies to the world that it is ready to step forward into new arenas of environmental protection.
华盛顿——1971年，国际兵乓球运动员之间展开了一系列出人意料的互动，这在后来被证实是中美断交数十年后，中方愿与美方进行往来的第一丝迹象。它预示了理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)总统将开启具有历史转折意义的中国之旅。这一系列意料之外的事件，后来被称为兵乓外交。而今，我们可能正在目睹一个类似的事件——可以把它称为鱼翅外交——中国正通过这场行动，向世界显示它准备主动登上环境保护的新舞台。
The world’s most populous nation faces serious issues: Air pollution has become a growing concern, with recent emissions of particulate matter so high in the northeastern city of Harbin that its official website stated, “You can’t see your own fingers in front of you.” Meanwhile, supplying wood for more than 80 billion sets of disposable chopsticks each year has decimated forests, and water pollution renders large sections of major rivers unfit for drinking and swimming.
这个全球人口最多的国家面临着严重的问题：空气污染已变得越来越让人担忧，最近，在中国北方城市哈尔滨，颗粒物的浓度如此之高，以至于当地的官方网站都用上了“伸手不见五指”的说法。同时，每年生产的800亿双一次性筷子所消耗的木材，已经毁灭了大片森林，水污染导致主要河流中许多河段的水质都不适合饮用和游泳。
International concerns also loom large: Greenhouse gas emissions don’t respect borders. And trade in endangered plants and animals threatens to undermine the global ecosystems. Oceans, in particular, are at great risk because they are increasingly overfished, polluted and stressed by rising temperatures and acidification resulting from climate change.
国际社会也变得越来越担心：温室气体排放不分国界。濒危动植物交易大有危及全球生态系统之势。特别是海洋，它正承受着愈演愈烈的过度捕捞和污染，日渐上升的温度和气候变化所导致的酸化让它不堪重负，正面临巨大的风险。
Fortunately, China has begun to take steps. The country consistently ranks No.1 or 2 in attracting private investment in clean energy. It has a national renewable-energy standard and has adopted some of the strongest vehicle fuel efficiency regulations on the planet. People have been called on to reuse chopsticks. And the government has announced a policy that will help stem the killing of a crucial ocean species: sharks.
幸运的是，中国已经开始采取措施。中国在吸引私人资本投入清洁能源方面始终排在全球第一或第二位；中国设立了国家级的可再生能源标准，并实施了一些全球最严苛的机动车燃油效率条例；政府呼吁人们重复使用筷子；中国现在宣布了一项政策，它将有助于阻止人们杀戮一个至关重要的海洋物种：鲨鱼。
The new attitude toward sharks is particularly instructive, since shark-fin soup has long been considered a delicacy in China, served at banquets and weddings. But its popularity has contributed to a sharp decline in the worldwide populations of these apex predators, which help maintain healthy marine ecosystems. It is estimated that 100 million sharks are killed each year, primarily for their fins.
对鲨鱼的新态度尤其具有指导意义，因为长期以来，在中国，鱼翅羹一直被认为是宴会和婚宴上的一道佳肴。然而，它的流行促使鲨鱼的全球数量出现了大幅下滑，这种位于食物链顶端的捕食性动物有助于维持健康的海洋生态环境。据估计，每年有1亿头鲨鱼主要因鱼翅而被猎杀。
The first sign of a shift came in February, when President Xi Jinping issued instructions to all levels of the Chinese government that high-cost ingredients, including shark fins and specialties culled from other protected species, were not to be consumed at official meetings. In large part, this regulation stems from a crackdown on corruption and lavish spending, since shark-fin soup is expensive and has often represented a display of wealth. But language in the notice also acknowledged the importance of promoting “green, eco-friendly and low-carbon” consumption habits.
态度转变的首个迹象出现在今年2月，当时，中国国家主席习近平对各级政府发布了指示，要求官方会议不得消费高价食材，其中既包括鱼翅，也包括用其他被捕杀的受保护物种烹制的特色菜。在很大程度上，这项规定的初衷是遏制腐败和奢侈消费，而鱼翅羹价格昂贵，往往带有炫富意味。不过，通知也在行文中承认了推动“绿色、环保和低碳”的消费习惯的重要性。
Then, in September, came news from Hong Kong that the city government would ban shark fins from official functions there to “demonstrate its commitment to green living and sustainability.” Since 50 percent of the world’s annual trade in shark fins passes through Hong Kong, the move was highly encouraging.
之后，今年9月，从香港传出了市政府将禁止本地官员在公务宴请中食用鱼翅的消息，以“体现港府对推动绿色生活及可持续发展的承诺”。由于全球每年有50%的鱼翅交易是通过香港达成的，这项措施让人倍受鼓舞。
Together, those decisions are expected to reduce the global trade in fins and aid conservation initiatives, such as the establishment of shark sanctuaries. In those sanctuaries, which encompass 12.5 million square kilometers, catching, possessing and trading in shark products are prohibited. Open sea-dwelling species of sharks swim vast distances each year, passing in and out of national territorial waters where they are caught and killed. Sanctuaries will help to reduce the risk to these imperiled animals, which are slow growing, bear few young and play a vital role in ocean ecologies.
总的来说，这些决定有望减少全球鱼翅交易，对于建设鲨鱼保护区等保护活动的实施有益。在面积达1250万平方公里的鲨鱼保护区，捕捞、拥有和交易鲨鱼产品是被禁止的。鲨鱼是在开放的海洋环境中生存的物种，每年都要游弋遥远的距离，它们在各国水域之间往返穿行时，会被捕捞和杀害。保护区有助于减少这些濒危动物面临的风险，它们的成长速度很慢，产下的幼崽量很小，但却在海洋生态系统中扮演至关重要的角色。
Given China’s immense size and expanding influence, it has the potential to play a key role in helping to solve the problems of climate change, overfishing, pollution and conservation. The new shark-fin diplomacy may prove to be a pivotal event — but only if China adopts the environmental leadership that the world so desperately needs.
考虑到中国作为一个大国日益增大的影响力，它有潜力发挥核心作用，为解决气候变化、过度捕捞、环境污染和自然保护问题贡献力量。新的鱼翅外交也许会被证实是一个关键的事件——不过，其前提是中国能够担起世界迫切需要的环保领导责任。