The China National Chemical Corporation, a Chinese state-owned company, is closing in on a deal to acquire Syngenta, which would be the largest acquisition of a foreign company by a Chinese company, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.
据知情人士爆料，中国国有的中国化工集团收购先正达公司(Syngenta)的谈判接近尾声，如果成功，将是中国公司收购外国公司的规模最大的一宗交易。
A deal would most likely value Syngenta, the Swiss agricultural and chemical giant, at about $43 billion, according to one of the people with knowledge of the discussions.
先正达是瑞士农业化工巨头。一名知情人士说，该公司在这宗交易中很可能估值在430亿美元左右。
A deal could be announced as soon as Wednesday, but it was not yet final and might not happen, according to these people, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Syngenta is set to report its fourth-quarter results on Wednesday.
这些不愿具名的知情人士说，该交易可能最早会在周三公布，但是还没有最终敲定，有泡汤的可能。先正达预定于周三公布其第四季度财报。
The Chinese company, known as ChemChina, has offered to pay about 470 Swiss francs, or about $460, per share of Syngenta, one of the people said. That would value Syngenta at about $43 billion.
其中一人说，中国化工集团对先正达的出价是每股约470瑞士法郎（约合3000元人民币）。这样算来，先正达公司估值约430亿美元。
Syngenta declined to comment on Tuesday, and ChemChina did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
先正达周二拒绝置评，而中国化工集团没有立即回应置评请求。
Shares of Syngenta surged 4 percent in Zurich trading on Tuesday after reports of a potential deal.
有望达成交易的消息传出后，先正达股价周二在苏黎世交易所应声上涨4%。
Syngenta, based in Basel, Switzerland, is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of agricultural chemicals, producing insecticides, fungicides, herbicides and seeds. The company reported sales of $15.1 billion in 2014 and employs more than 28,000 people in over 90 countries.
先正达公司总部位于瑞士巴塞尔。它是世界上最大的农业化学品生产商之一，产品包括杀虫剂、杀菌剂、除草剂和种子。该公司2014年销售额录得151亿美元，在90多个国家拥有逾2.8万名员工。
It was created in November 2000 by the merger of the agribusinesses of Novartis and AstraZeneca.
该公司创立于2000年11月，由诺华(Novartis)和阿斯利康(AstraZeneca)的农业业务部门合并而成。
The potential deal between Syngenta and ChemChina comes about six months after the agricultural giant Monsanto abandoned a takeover bid of nearly $47 billion for Syngenta.
先正达和中国化工集团之间潜在交易的消息，是大约六个月前传出的，之前农业巨头孟山都(Monsanto)放弃了近470亿美元的收购要约。
Syngenta rejected multiple approaches by Monsanto last year over regulatory concerns.
去年，出于监管方面的顾虑，先正达拒绝了孟山都的多次收购提议。
Chinese companies have been on a spending spree overseas, landing 136 deals worth $31.3 billion in 2015 alone.
中国公司在海外大举开展收购行动，仅在2015年就达成了136宗交易，总价值313亿美元。
ChemChina, under its chairman, Ren Jianxin, has been no exception, taking stakes in chemical, machinery and transportation companies.
中国化工集团也不例外，在董事长任建新的带领下，它投资入股了一些化工、机械和运输企业。
It bought Pirelli, the Italian tire maker, for 7.1 billion euros, or about $7.8 billion, in 2015 and just last month sealed a deal for KraussMaffei, a German manufacturer of plastics and rubber processing machinery, for about $1 billion. ChemChina now owns companies in countries including France, Britain and Israel.
2015年，它斥资71亿欧元收购了意大利轮胎制造商倍耐力(Pirelli)。就在上个月，它与德国塑料和橡胶加工机械制造商克劳斯玛菲(KraussMaffei)达成了一项约10亿美元的交易。中国化工集团目前在法国、英国和以色列等国拥有公司。
In its latest deal, it took a minority stake in Mercuria, a Swiss energy and commodities company, in a move to diversify its portfolio and expand into the energy sector.
在最新的一起交易中，它收购了瑞士能源和大宗商品公司摩科瑞(Mercuria)的少数股权，以便增进投资组合的多元化，向能源领域扩张。