GUANGZHOU, China — The vast steel mill here on the south bank of the Pearl River was supposed to have closed more than three years ago, its labyrinth of rusty chutes and sheds bulldozed and its massive cranes with huge steel claws dismantled for scrap.
中国广州——珠江南岸的这座大型钢铁厂三年多之前就应该关闭了，迷宫一样的生锈槽管和小屋应该已经被推土机推平，大型起重机上的巨大钢爪也应该已经拆卸报废。
But the Guangzhou Steel mill continued churning out millions of tons of steel for construction projects across Southeast Asia all the way through last September, when the antiquated complex, built on Mao’s orders in the late 1950s, finally began shutting down. Even now, a fraction of the previously 6,000-strong work force continues to shape specialty products for export and the domestic market, while furnaces at a much newer mill to the south churn out higher-grade steel.
但广州钢铁厂还在用陈旧的设施继续生产，为东南亚各地的建设项目冶炼了数百万吨钢材，一直到去年九月，这些上世纪50年代末在毛泽东的指示下修建起来的设施才终于开始关停。即便是现在，该厂还保留了以前6000多名工人的一小部分，继续为国内外市场生产特种钢材；而它的南面有一家新得多的钢厂，那里的高炉正在冶炼等级更高的钢材。
The recent history of the old mill underlines two troubles in the Chinese economy: its heavy dependence on construction in recent years and now the return, at least temporarily, of a need for exports to help offset weakness in the domestic market.
这家老厂最近的经历彰显了中国经济的两重烦恼：近年来它严重依赖建设项目，现在至少暂时又回到了需要用出口来帮助其抵消国内市场疲势的老路上。
Chinese stocks continued their slide Tuesday on concerns that the country’s debt-fueled real estate boom is finally slowing — and with it, the sprawling construction industry that accounts for nearly a fifth of economic output. The falling currency, which could weigh on corporate profit, is only adding to the economic anxiety.
周二，中国股市继续下跌，因为市场担忧该国由债务推动的房地产热潮终于开始放缓——而庞大的、占中国经济产出近五分之一的建筑业也随之放缓了增长步伐。人民币贬值则进一步增加了市场对经济的焦虑情绪，因为企业利润可能会遭到挤压。
In the last two days, the CSI 300 index of big companies on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets has lost more than 4.5 percent, with even steeper declines among real estate developers. The weakness follows the government announcement on Monday that real estate prices are not rising as quickly and the state media reports that banks are limiting or delaying some categories of real estate loans.
过去两天，上交所和深交所大公司组成的沪深300指数跌幅逾4.5%，房地产板块的跌幅甚至更大。就在本轮下跌开始前，政府周一宣布房地产价格增速放缓，官方媒体则报道称，银行正在限制或延缓某些类别的房地产贷款。
As worries have accumulated about the real estate sector, exports have leapt this winter despite a continued rise in blue-collar wages. With economies in the West starting to recover, executives like Jim He, export manager of the Foshan Monalisa Industry Company, a ceramic tile manufacturer on the western outskirts of Guangzhou, once again see the future in overseas markets.
在市场对房地产行业担忧情绪升温的同时，尽管蓝领工人的工资持续上涨，中国这个冬季的出口量却出现了大幅增加。随着西方经济开始复苏，像吉姆·何(Jim He)这样的管理者再次看到了海外市场的良好前景。吉姆·何是广州西郊的瓷砖制造商佛山市蒙娜丽莎实业有限公司的出口部经理。
“Around 80 percent of our sales are to the domestic market, and we have seen a decline in our business recently, given the slowdown in construction projects,” he said. “We are now expanding our export business to countries in Southeast Asia and in South America.”
“我们的产品大约80%在国内市场销售，最近由于建设项目放缓，国内业务量有所下降，”他说。“我们正在扩大向东南亚和南美洲国家的出口。”
Rising Chinese exports may be helping to offset emerging signs of weakness across the broader Chinese economy.
出口增长可能有助于抵消中国整体经济出现的疲软迹象。
An early reading of the HSBC/Markit survey for February of manufacturers’ purchasing managers in China, released last week, showed improvement in new export orders and declines in every other category, including overall business sentiment, employment and industrial production. That was consistent with the weakness of most economic statistics for China in January except exports, which rose 10.6 percent from a year earlier.
汇丰(HSBC)/Markit上周公布的中国2月份制造业采购经理人指数初值显示，除去新的出口订单有所增加之外，包括整体商业信心、就业和工业生产在内的其他所有类别都出现了下降。这跟中国一月的经济统计数据相一致：一月除出口较上年同期增加了10.6%之外，大多数数据表现疲软。
But strengthening Chinese exports may lead to further trade tensions, particularly ahead of midterm congressional elections in the United States in November.
但中国的出口增长可能会导致中美贸易关系变得更加紧张，尤其是在11月美国国会中期选举之前。
“As their economy slows, they are going to flood the U.S. with more and more of their excess capacity,” said Leo Gerard, the president of the United Steelworkers union. “That will be felt all across the country, and politicians in steelmaking districts this election year will have to answer for why their government isn’t doing more.”
“随着中国经济放缓，他们的过剩产能会越来越多地涌入美国，”美国联合钢铁工人工会(United Steelworkers union)主席利奥·杰拉德(Leo Gerard)说。“这会波及全美各地，在今年的选举中，产钢区的政客们必须回答这样一个问题：为什么他们的政府没有对此采取更多措施。”
China’s central bank has begun quietly helping the country’s exports. It has unsettled traders by intervening heavily in currency markets for the last week, pushing the renminbi down steadily.
中国央行已经开始悄悄助力本国出口。过去一周，它对货币市场进行了严重干预，推动人民币汇率稳步走低，此举令交易者感到不安。
On Tuesday, the fall continued, bringing the currency’s loss against the dollar for the year so far to 1 percent. By comparison, the renminbi rose 3 percent against the dollar last year. The recent decline also interrupts what had seemed to be a steady rise in the Chinese currency, which had been eroding the competitiveness of Chinese exports.
周二，人民币兑美元汇率继续走低，今年开年以来累计跌幅已达1%，而去年全年则是上扬了3%。原本似乎处于稳步上升通道的人民币汇率已经影响了中国出口产品的竞争力，近期的汇率走低则中断了这种趋势。
The gain in exports last month from a year earlier was particularly surprising because exports a year ago had been overstated. Many Chinese companies inflated the value of their shipments to bypass currency controls and bring capital covertly into the country.
上个月出口额的同比增长特别令人惊讶，因为去年同期的出口量已经有所夸大。很多中国公司为了绕开外汇管制，虚增了货物价值，将资金变相引入中国。
But Chinese government officials and Western economists say they believe that excessive invoicing has since faded.
但中国政府官员和西方经济学家说，他们认为，自那之后，虚开发票的现象已经逐渐消失。
“We cannot rule out the possibility that a few companies conducted illicit transactions, but on the whole, the export growth number is reasonable and logical if you look at breakdown figures for different commodities and destination markets,” Shen Danyang, the Chinese Commerce Ministry spokesman, said at a recent news conference.
中国商务部发言人沈丹阳在最近的新闻发布会上说，“不排除个别企业有套利行为。但1月份的出口增长无论是从商品结构、市场结构还是主体结构来看，都是合理和合乎逻辑的。”
China’s exports to the United States have been rising this winter in a long list of categories, including steel, knit apparel, kitchen cabinets and toys. Shipments to the European Union have risen for goods like shoes and smartphones.
在刚刚过去的冬天，中国多个品类的对美出口都持续增长，这包括钢铁、针织服装、橱柜和玩具。中国对欧盟的鞋类和智能手机等商品的出口也出现了增长。
China’s overall exported tonnage of structural steel for buildings, including products made at the Guangzhou Steel mill, leapt 18.9 percent in December from the same month a year earlier, the most recent month for which data is available. The biggest recipient of that steel was the Bahamas, where Chinese companies are building large hotels and other projects. Chinese exports of structural steel also increased sharply to Japan, the United States and Indonesia.
包括广州钢铁厂的产品在内，中国出口的建筑结构性钢材12月份同比增长了18.9%，这是目前可以得到的最新月度数据。在这一领域，最大的进口国是巴哈马。中国公司正在巴哈马建设大型酒店和其他项目。中国对日本、美国和印尼的结构性钢材出口也急剧上升。
While exports are important to many companies, growth in overseas sales cannot fully offset slower growth in investment spending, which has expanded to almost half the economy as the state-owned banking system and a loosely regulated shadow banking system have churned out loans over the last five years at a blistering pace. Many industrial companies in China complain that excess capacity from previous overinvestment is now stunting their profitability.
尽管出口对于许多中国公司来说非常重要，海外销售的增长并不能完全抵消投资增长放缓造成的影响。由于国有银行系统和监管不严的影子银行系统过去五年来以令人目眩的速度发放贷款，中国的投资支出已经增长到经济总量的一半。中国的许多工业企业抱怨，之前的过度投资带来的过剩产能目前正在影响其盈利能力。
“Orders are down due to more competitors coming into the field — we can only get orders if we give very attractive pricing, but this in effect puts even more pressure on our margins,” said Tom Zhao, a salesman at the Renqiu North Communication Equipment Company, a satellite dish manufacturer in Renqiu, near Beijing.
“由于更多竞争者的加入，订单数量已经减少——只有提供非常有吸引力的价格，我们才能获得订单，但是这实际上给我们的利润率带来了更多压力，”任丘市北方通讯设备有限公司的销售人员汤姆·赵(Tom Zhao)说。该公司位于北京附近，是一家卫星天线制造商。
China’s leaders hope that consumer spending can start to replace investment projects. But consumer spending depends at least partly on perceptions that apartments, the main asset of middle-class and wealthy families, are continuing to increase in price or at least hold their value. Any doubt on that assumption quickly sends shivers through the economy.
中国的领导人希望消费支出能够开始取代投资项目。但消费者支出至少在一定程度上取决于人们对房屋价格持续上涨、或至少能够保值的信念。房产是中产阶级和富裕家庭的主要资产。如果这个信念有任何动摇，中国经济很快会感受到寒意。
A national survey of prices in 70 cities released on Monday showed that prices fell in January compared with December in six cities for new homes and in 13 for existing homes. In the rest, prices continued to rise but tended to do so a little more slowly than in previous months. In Beijing, for example, new-home prices rose 0.4 percent last month from the previous month, after climbing 0.6 percent in December from November. Prices for newly built residential real estate are still up 14.7 percent from a year ago.
周一公布的全国70个城市的调查显示，1月，六个城市的新房价格、13个城市的二手房价格环比下降。其他城市的房价仍然在上涨，但涨幅略低于之前的几个月。例如，在北京，新房价格上个月环比增长了0.4%，而12月份的环比增幅为0.6%。新房价格较一年前仍然上涨了14.7%。
But prices are already so high that first-time buyers are largely excluded from the market. Even a one-bedroom apartment on the outskirts of a large city can cost two decades’ worth of salary for a young engineer. White-collar salaries have been stagnant or falling because of a glut of college graduates.
然而房价已经如此之高，以至于首次购房者基本上被市场排除在外。即使是在大城市郊区，一居室的售价也抵得上一名年轻工程师20年的工资总和。由于大学毕业生供过于求，白领的工资一直停滞不前，甚至在减少。
Optimists in China say that construction will continue and can absorb the output of a steel sector that has grown tenfold in the last 12 years, to the point that China now consumes half the world’s iron ore.
中国的乐观主义者说，建筑施工将会继续，并且可以吸收钢铁领域的产出。该领域的产出过去12年已经增长了10倍，以至于目前世界上一半的铁矿石消耗量来自中国。
Harley Seyedin,the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in South China, said he was driving on the outskirts of Guangzhou last month and found himself traveling parallel to an eight-lane highway and a light-rail system under construction.
华南美国商会(American Chamber of Commerce in South China)会长哈利·赛亚丁(Harley Seyedin)说，他上个月开车经过广州郊区时发现，路旁正在施工建设一条八车道公路和一条轻轨线路。
“Where the stations will eventually be, I saw these mini cities popping up,” he said, adding that although he was an hour’s drive from the city center, “with that light-rail system, you can be in downtown Guangzhou in 15 minutes.”
他说，“这些车站最终所在的地方，将出现大量迷你城市。”他补充说，尽管他当时离市中心有1小时车程，“有了这条轻轨，15分钟就能到达广州市中心。”
Yet steel prices have also been sliding slowly but steadily in China since last August, a sign that supply is outpacing demand. The tonnage of Chinese steel exports to the United States was flat through most of last year, but it leapt 31 percent in December compared with a year earlier as American steel prices stayed relatively high and the United States economy began gathering steam.
然而，去年8月以来，钢铁价格一直在不断下滑，虽然速度缓慢。这意味着正在出现供大于求的状况。中国对美国的钢铁出口在去年的大部分时间里都保持在同样的水平，但12月同比增长了31%，因为美国的钢铁价格仍然相对较高，与此同时，美国经济开始好转。
A strengthening American economy makes it harder for companies to bring anti-dumping or anti-subsidy complaints. Winning such cases requires companies to show harm, and this is difficult when businesses are profitable.
美国经济的不断强化让企业更加难以提出反倾销或反补贴的诉讼。企业要想胜诉需要证明自己受到了伤害，而当企业能够盈利时，很难证明这一点。
Mr. Gerard, the union president, predicted it would take a while for the latest increase in Chinese exports to bring a legal response in the West. “By then,” he said, “a lot of the damage will have been done.”
美国钢铁工人联合会主席杰拉德预计，针对中国近期的出口增长，西方可能过一段时间才会采取法律行动。他说，“到那时，大量破坏已经形成。”