RODEZ, France — When Alberto Contador won the Tour de France in 2010 while riding a bicycle made by Specialized for the first time, Andrew Love was both elated and apprehensive.
法国罗德兹——阿尔伯托·康塔多(Alberto Contador)赢得了2010年环法自行车赛(Tour de France)冠军。他在赛程中，首次使用了斯贝特(Specialized)自行车。对此，安德鲁·洛夫(Andrew Love)既是兴奋又是不安。
“I knew they would be coming,” Love, the company’s head of brand protection, investigation and legal enforcement, recalled.
“我知道问题会接踵而来，”洛夫回忆道。他是该公司的品牌保护、调查和执法主管。
Contador’s success was ultimately short-lived — the title was revoked two years later because of doping — but that had nothing to do with Love’s fear: that Contador’s victory aboard the Specialized carbon fiber bicycle frame would hasten the arrival of copies from China, where there has been a surge in counterfeit high-end bikes, wheels and even helmets.
康塔多的夺冠最终只是一次短暂的胜利。因为兴奋剂问题，他的冠军头衔在两年后被撤销。不过这并不是洛夫所担心的，他担心的是，康塔多骑着斯贝特碳纤维车架的自行车获胜，这会加速中国仿冒碳纤维自行车的出现。中国已经有了大量仿冒的高端自行车、轮组，甚至头盔。
Unlike, for example, a fake Rolex watch that stops ticking, fake cycling products can have dangerous consequences, several manufacturers said.
多家制造商说，和仿冒劳力士(Rolex)表停止转动不一样，仿冒的骑行产品会造成危险的后果。
“The wheels just kind of fall apart,” said Chad Moore, the global brand manager for Mavic, a long-established wheel maker based in France. “It really just becomes an enormous safety issue for consumers.”
“车轮会散架，”马威克(Mavic)全球品牌主管查徳·摩尔(Chad Moore)说道。“这对消费者来说确实成为了一个重大的安全问题。”马威克是一家历史悠久的法国自行车车轮制造商。
The rise of the knockoffs has been fueled by online retailing, the nearly universal adoption of carbon fiber for racing cycles and the general outsourcing of bicycle production to Asia, but the appeal is, quite simply, price. The use of carbon fiber in bicycle frames and wheels has raised the price of a high-end racing bike to the level of a modest used car. The frame and fork of the Specialized S-Works Tarmac bike that Contador has ridden on most stages at this year’s Tour have a list price of $4,000. Adding on the wheels and components similar to those that Contador uses bumps the final price to nearly $10,000.
仿冒品的猖獗受到了几点因素的推动，如网络零售的发展、公路车几乎普遍采用碳纤维、 自行车生产基本上由亚洲外包，不过价格才是最大的原因。因为自行车车架和轮组采用了碳纤维，高端竞赛自行车的价格，因此提高到了中档二手汽车的价格水平。康塔多在今年环法赛的大部分路段所骑的自行车，是斯贝特旗下的S-Works Tarmac，它的车架和前叉售价为4000美元。再加上与康塔多所用的类似的轮组和配件，碳纤维自行车的最终价格接近1万美元。
Fake versions of Contador’s bike, or others now being ridden at the Tour, are about half that price on Chinese websites like DHGate and AliExpress, the consumer site of Alibaba, and they can be as little as $500.
对于康塔多所骑的自行车，或是其他一些用于自行车赛的自行车，它们的仿冒品在中国网站上的售价只有正品价格的一半，最便宜的只卖500美元。这些网站包括敦煌网(DHGate)和阿里巴巴全球速卖通(AliExpress)，后者是阿里巴巴旗下的一个消费品平台。
Counterfeits of prestigious bike brands have a long history. But in the era of steel or aluminum frames, the deception was usually obvious even to an unskilled eye. The frames were usually substantially heavier than those they were imitating, the workmanship immediately obvious as inferior.
名牌自行车的仿冒品由来已久。 但是在钢制和铝制车架的时代，即使是外行人通常都能辨别出仿冒品。仿冒品的车架通常要比正品的车架轻很多，生产工艺也能明显看出十分拙劣。
As their name might suggest, carbon fiber bicycles have almost as much to do with textiles as with traditional bike building. They are made of upward of 500 pieces of fabric woven from carbon fibers — a material pioneered by the aerospace industry — which are carefully built up in molds, impregnated with epoxy resins and then cured, usually with a combination of heat and pressure.
从名字就可以看出，碳纤维材料和传统自行车的制造工艺，对于碳纤维自行车都是不可或缺的。碳纤维自行车由500多层碳纤维片组成，而碳纤维是一种最早应用于航空航天工业的材料。将碳纤维片小心翼翼地叠放在模具中，然后浇入环氧树脂，最后再进行固化，手段通常是加热加压。
The complexity of their assembly gives counterfeiters a variety of ways to cut corners while still producing a bike that, from the outside at least, looks like the real thing.
碳纤维自行车的装配很复杂，仿冒者因此有了各种各样的捷径来偷工减料，不过至少从外观来看，他们还是能够生产出酷似正品的碳纤维自行车。
The high-strength carbon fiber that legitimate manufacturers use allows them to produce a strong bike while using less material to save weight; high-end frames typically weigh less than two pounds. Forgers, on the other hand, use weaker, less expensive grades of carbon fiber, Love said, and they also use far less of the material than safety and performance standards would dictate. Inadequate epoxy and improper curing can also be problems.
正规制造商使用的高强度碳纤维，让他们在生产出牢固的自行车的同时，能够减少材料的用量从而减轻自行车车重，高端车架的重量通常低于2磅（约合0.9公斤）。洛夫表示，仿冒碳纤维自行车所使用的碳纤维的强度较低，价格也较为便宜。同时，仿冒品在制造过程中材料的用量，也远远达不到自行车安全和性能的要求。另外，环氧树脂用量不足和不正规的固化方式，也会造成一些问题。
Moore, the global brand manager for Mavic, said that the differences between proper and improper techniques could largely be invisible.
马威克全球品牌经理摩尔表示，工艺是否正规，凭外观基本上是看不出来的。
“With carbon, a lot of it is how you build the products, whether it is a frame or a wheel,” Moore said, adding, “When you take a deep-dish carbon wheel, put a sticker on it and put it on a website, it’s hard for a consumer to tell.”
“使用碳纤维的产品，很多时候取决于你如何制造，无论是车架还是轮子，”摩尔说，“拿一个深盘碳纤维车轮，在上面贴个标签挂到网上，消费者很难辨别真伪的。”
Maria Adams, the brand protection manager for SRAM, a bicycle-parts maker based in Chicago, said that initially counterfeiters did not, or could not, include the distinctive golf-ball-like surface dimples of her company’s Zipp carbon wheels on their knockoffs. But now, she said, “they’re getting better; they’re getting the dimpling down.”
位于芝加哥的自行车零部件生产商速联(SRAM)的品牌保护负责人玛利亚·亚当斯(Maria Adams)说，最初仿冒者们并没有（或者是说没有能力）像该公司旗下的Zipp品牌那样，在车轮仿冒品上打上碳制车轮那种，类似于高尔夫球表面的独特纹理。但是现在，她说，“他们越发厉害了，可以给轮子打上那个纹理了。”
There are no statistics on injuries related to counterfeit bikes and wheels. But this spring, Velo, an American cycling magazine, had an engineering lab compare fake and genuine versions of a Specialized S-Works Tarmac frame. While the magazine said that the two frames were difficult to distinguish from the outside, the testing showed that the counterfeit varied in dimensions from the real bike — which can substantially affect handling — and had as little as one-quarter of the genuine frame’s strength.
由仿冒自行车和车轮导致的受伤事故的数量并无统计，但今年春天，美国自行车杂志《Velo》请工程实验室比较了斯贝特牌S-Works Tarmac车架的仿冒品和正品。该杂志称，虽然从外观上看很难辨别真伪，但检测结果显示，仿冒品与正品存在许多不同——这对骑行体验会产生很大影响——仿冒车架的强度只有正品的四分之一。
To make high-end racing helmets, the authentic versions of which can cost nearly $300, companies like the California-based Specialized and Giro mold some of their helmets around expensive composite roll cages to reduce weight without compromising strength. Because the roll cage is invisible to buyers, counterfeiters simply omit it, resulting in a substantial price difference: Knockoffs of the Giro Aeon helmet, which sells for about $200, can be found online for $50.
正品高端赛车头盔的成本可达近300美元。位于加利福尼亚的Giro和斯贝特，会用昂贵的复合滚柱罩制造各自的一些头盔产品，从而在不影响强度的情况下减轻重量。由于消费者看不见滚柱罩，仿冒品制造商干脆将其省略，导致两者之间产生了巨大的价格差异：原价约200美元的Giro Aeon头盔，在网上花50美元就能买到仿冒版。
“It’s unfortunate that helmets are put out there that bear only surface similarities without offering adequate protection,” said Martin H. Nguyen, general counsel for BRG Sports, the parent company of the helmet brands Giro and Bell. “It doesn’t make sense.”
“很遗憾，外面卖的那些头盔，只是表面相似，却无法提供足够的保护，”头盔品牌Giro和Bell的母公司BRG Sports的法律顾问马丁·H·阮(Martin H. Nguyen)说。“这样的头盔没有意义。”
Nguyen is one of several lawyers in the bicycle industry whose departments are trying to shut down makers and sellers of counterfeits, a process he compared to the game Whac-a-Mole.
自行车行业中一些企业的法律团队致力于打击仿冒制造商，阮先生就领导着这样一个团队，他将这个过程比作“打地鼠”游戏。
The identity of the knockoff manufacturers is, not surprisingly, murky. Production may involve the theft of tools and materials by employees at contract bicycle manufacturers in Asia, and some in the industry believe that some bicycle industry contractors may produce black-market goods on the side. And it is also believed that some makers of other carbon fiber products, like auto parts and tennis rackets, are in on the trade.
仿冒品生产商的身份模糊不清，这点并不让人意外。生产过程可能涉及在亚洲的签约自行车生产商员工偷窃生产工具和材料，一些业内人士认为某些自行车签约生产商有可能私下为黑市提供产品。某些其他碳纤维产品生产商，比如汽车零部件和网球拍，也被认为牵涉其中。
To avoid counterfeiting problems with subcontractors, Mavic moved all of its carbon production back to Europe. Zipp has always made the carbon rims for its wheels in Indianapolis.
为了避免外包环节出现仿冒产品，马威克将其全部碳材料的生产搬回了欧洲。Zipp一直都是在印第安纳波利斯生产其碳制轮圈。
Specialized and SRAM have been working with the Homeland Security Department to block fakes, and Adams, the brand protection manager for SRAM, said that some overseas customs services, particularly in Belgium, regularly stopped the fakes at their borders.
斯贝特和速联一直在与国土安全部(Homeland Security Department)合作防止仿冒产品。速联的品牌保护主管亚当斯说，其他国家的海关，尤其是比利时，会时常在各自国家的边境上查获仿冒产品。
Love, the head of brand protection at Specialized, has become arguably the industry’s leading anticounterfeit crusader. His approach has involved working with the federal authorities to shut down counterfeiters by tracing their finances and seizing their money.
斯贝特品牌保护负责人洛夫，可以说已经成了业内反假冒的先锋。他采取的措施包括与联邦政府合作，通过追踪仿冒厂商的财务往来，并没收其资产，来打击仿冒者。
Still, many prestigious bikes come from relatively small companies that lack Specialized’s legal resources.
但是仍然有许多出色的自行车来自规模较小的公司，这些公司缺乏斯贝特这样的公司所拥有的法律资源。
For Adams, part of the solution should be buyers’ accepting reality.
对于亚当斯来说，问题的解决之道，部分应该在于消费者认清现实。