If you are looking for a Chinese city with clean air, your best bets would be Shenzhen, Zhuhai, Zhoushan, Zhanjiang, Yunfu, Beihai, Sanya or Lhasa, according to the Ministry of Environmental Protection.
如果你在寻找一个有洁净空气的中国城市，你最好的选择是深圳、珠海、舟山、湛江、云浮、北海、海口、三亚和拉萨，据国家环境保护部的统计。
Those are the only nine out of 161 monitored cities that met China’s new air quality standards in the first half of this year, the ministry announced on Wednesday. The stricter standards were rolled out by the government in 2012 as part of a continuing battle with air pollution in the country, the state news agency Xinhua reported.
据国家通讯社新华社报道，环保部周三公布，在采用了国家新的空气质量标准进行环境监测的161个城市中，今年上半年达标的只有上述9个。政府在2012年推出了更严格的标准，作为国家对付空气污染问题的不断努力的一部分。
Chinese leaders have vowed a “war” on pollution as one of its most visible forms, smog, regularly envelops the country’s major cities, particularly in the north. Health officials warn that exposure to fine particulate matter, known as PM 2.5, can lead to serious health problems. Last year, a doctor treating the country’s youngest patient ever diagnosed with lung cancer, an 8-year-old girl, attributed the disease to air pollution.
中国领导人以经发誓向污染“宣战”，雾霾作为污染最看得见的形式，经常笼罩着全国各大城市，尤其是在北方。卫生官员警告说，长期暴露在被称为PM2.5的细颗粒物之中，可导致严重的健康问题。去年，给中国被诊断患有肺癌的最年轻患者、一个8岁女孩治病的医生，把其患病原因归咎于空气污染。
One city that did not meet the air quality benchmark was the country’s capital, Beijing. The city’s 20 million residents — migrant workers and government leaders alike — regularly experience unhealthy levels of PM 2.5 and other pollutants.
空气质量没有达到标准的城市包括中国首都北京。这个城市的2000万居民，包括外来的打工者，也包括政府的领导人，经常暴露在不利健康的高水平PM 2.5和其他污染物之中。
In January 2013, Beijing residents endured particularly choking, yellow air with a concentration of fine particulate matter 40 times the recommended maximum exposure limit set by the World Health Organization.
2013年1月，北京市民遭受了一次特别糟糕的空气污染，黄色空气中细颗粒物的浓度是世界卫生组织暴露上限指导值的40倍。
On Monday, the municipal government announced its latest measure to curb pollution. In a statement on its official website, the Beijing Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau said the capital would ban the use of coal in six districts and neighboring regions by the end of 2020. Other high-polluting fuels, such as petroleum coke, and some biomass fuel will also be banned. Electricity and natural gas will be promoted for heating and cooking instead.
北京市政府周一宣布了遏制污染的最新措施。在其官方网站上发布的声明中，北京市环保局表示，首都将在2020年底前在六个市区及附近地区全面禁止使用煤炭。其他高污染燃料，如石油焦以及某些生物质燃料也将被禁止。电和天然气将被推广为取暖和做饭的能源。
Last September, the Chinese government announced a nationwide plan to curb air pollution that included a goal of reducing overall coal consumption as a percentage of energy use.
去年九月，中国政府宣布了一项遏制空气污染的全国性计划，目标包括降低煤炭占能源消耗总量的比重。
China accounts for roughly half of the world’s annual coal consumption, the burning of which creates pollutants like fine particulates and greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide.
世界每年的煤炭消耗大约有一半在中国，烧煤产生诸如细颗粒物等污染物，还产生二氧化碳这样的温室气体。