BEIJING — A jump in violent crime in Chinese towns near the border with North Korea has prompted the authorities in China to organize civilian militias to help secure the largely unprotected border, a state-run publication has reported.
北京——中国的一份官方出版物报道，毗邻朝鲜的中国城镇的暴力犯罪事件激增，促使中国当局组织民兵力量，为基本上不设防的中朝边境提供安全保障。
The militias, as described by the publication, China Defense News, are part of an enhanced system to keep villagers safe from North Koreans, some of them armed soldiers and border guards who have been crossing into China in search of food and money.
这份名为《中国国防报》的刊物称，这些民兵是保护村民不受朝鲜人侵害的强边固防行动的组成部分。闯入中国的朝鲜人当中，有些是来寻找食物和钱财的朝鲜武装士兵和边防守卫。
Last month, a North Korean soldier killed four people during a robbery attempt in Yanbian, a prefecture in Jilin Province, which shares a 300-mile border with North Korea. According to accounts in the state news media, the suspect fatally shot two older couples in their homes and wounded another resident. The soldier was subsequently captured by the Chinese police, and last week, Beijing lodged a formal complaint with the North Korean government in Pyongyang.
上个月，一名朝鲜士兵在延边实施抢劫的过程中杀害了四名中国公民。延边是一个自治州，隶属于同朝鲜有500公里边境线的吉林省。据官方媒体报道，两对老年夫妇在家中被嫌疑人射杀，另有一名村民受伤。这名士兵随后被中国警方抓获。上周，中方向朝方正式提出交涉。
The killings have strained a relationship already frayed by North Korea’s erratic diplomacy and its continued pursuit of a nuclear arsenal, leading to increased tensions in northeast Asia.
朝鲜令人难以捉摸的外交政策及建立核武库的长期诉求，本已令中朝关系陷入僵局。这起事件让两国关系再度承压，令东北亚的紧张氛围加剧。
China is North Korea’s most important ally, and according to some news reports, Beijing has expressed its discontent over Pyongyang’s truculence by constraining cross-border trade and reducing shipments of food and oil. North Korean defectors and international aid workers say that hunger and malnutrition are rife throughout the country.
中国是朝鲜最重要的盟友。据一些新闻媒体报道，通过限制边境贸易和减少粮油运输，北京已经表达了对朝鲜好斗行为的不满。脱北者和国际援助人员称，饥饿和营养不良在朝鲜国内十分普遍。
In addition to establishing and arming civilian militias, installing video surveillance cameras, and providing patrol vehicles, the Chinese authorities have set up a hotline for tips on people suspected of being North Korean intruders, China Defense News reported.
《中国国防报》的报道称，除了建立和武装民兵组织、安装视频监控和提供巡逻车辆以外，中国当局还设立了举报电话，用以发现疑似的朝鲜不速之客。
“The border meanders across the land; its situation is complicated,” the article said, explaining the need for expanded civilian patrols. “It’s difficult to rely on just one party in maintaining effective control.”
“边境线绵延千里，边情比较复杂，”文中这样解释加强民兵巡逻的必要性。“仅靠一方力量很难实现有效管控。”
The border between the two countries has long been porous. They are separated by the Tumen River, which allows easy crossings when it freezes over in winter.
中朝两国边界一向存在漏洞。双方由图们江和鸭绿江隔开，当冬天江水结冰时，可以轻易越过边境。
North Korean refugees and others begging for food occasionally cross into China, but in recent years, assailants thought to be from North Korea have killed at least 20 people in Nanping, the village where the most recent murders took place, according to Beijing News. Some reports have said that a number of residents have abandoned the area because of frequent robberies and home invasions.
乞讨食物的朝鲜难民等人偶尔会越界进入中国，但是近年来，据信来自朝鲜的袭击者已经在南坪村杀害了至少20人。据《新京报》报道，最近的命案就发生在这里。有报道称，因为这一地区经常遭到抢劫和入室行窃，当地居民纷纷离去。
According to the state-run Global Times, a man who owns a riverside restaurant in Dandong, another Chinese city along the North Korean border, recalled waking up one night to find a man in a motorboat stealing food from his restaurant.
据官方媒体《环球时报》报道，在中朝边境的另一座城市丹东，一名在河畔开餐厅的老板称，有天夜里醒来，他发现一名乘快艇前来的男子正在从他的餐馆偷盗食物。