SHANGHAI — Last June, an affiliate of the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba made an offer to its hundreds of millions of users: Give us your cash, and we will pay more than Chinese banks will.
上海——去年6月，中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴的下属部门向数亿用户提出：把您的钱给我，我们会给您提供高于中国的银行的利息。
Savers swamped the company seeking interest rates that were significantly higher than the low rates fixed by the government. By early February, 81 million people had signed up for the company’s money market product called Yu’e Bao, which translates as “leftover treasure."
储户们的纷纷涌入让公司应接不暇，他们企图获得比中国政府定下的低利率高出一大截的利率。到今年2月初，有8100万人签购了阿里巴巴公司的货币市场产品，它的名字是余额宝，对应的英文翻译是“leftover treasure”（意为余下来的财富）。
The fund, which was established by Alipay, a unit of Alibaba, now has $40 billion in assets under management, making it the country’s biggest money market fund.
由阿里巴巴旗下的支付宝打造的这项基金产品，催生了中国规模最大的货币市场基金，目前，该基金管理着高达400亿美元（约合2400亿元人民币）的资产。
Other big Chinese Internet companies have followed suit, promising even higher returns than Yu’e Bao. The result is an assault on one of the crucial instruments the Chinese government uses to manage the economy: interest rates.
其他大型的中国互联网公司亦步其后尘，它们承诺的回报甚至比余额宝还要高。结果，这些产品对利率这个中国政府用以管理经济的关键工具造成了冲击。
“This is the beginning of interest rate liberalization,” says Chang Chun, who teaches at Shanghai Jiao Tong University’s Advanced Institute of Finance. “People want to get a higher yield on their savings deposits, and so this is one way to get around the regulation.”
在上海交通大学高级金融学院任教的张春说，“这是利率自由化的开始。人们想让自己的存款获得更高的收益，所以，这是绕过监管的一条途径。”
Jack Ma, Alibaba’s flamboyant and sharp-tongued chairman, insists China’s financial regulations are suffocating smaller investors and average consumers. He has vowed to shake up the country’s banking and financial services sector. “The financial industry needs spoilers to make a revolution,” he said during a speech last June.
个性张扬、言语犀利的阿里巴巴主席马云坚称，中国的金融规则正在挤压规模更小的投资人和一般消费者的生存空间。他立誓要改变中国的银行业和金融服务业。他在去年6月的演讲中说，“金融行业也需要搅局者……进来进行变革。”
The big winners so far are Chinese savers, who now earn up to 7 percent annually on cash deposits. Traditional banks have rarely been so generous. They now pay 3.3 percent.
迄今为止，最大的赢家是中国的储户，目前，他们的现金存款最高能挣到7%的年化收益。传统银行很少能这么慷慨。它们目前的年化收益率是3.3%。
For years, Chinese policy makers have promised to liberalize interest rates as part of a bold reform effort aimed at letting market forces play a larger role in the economy so that it grows in a more sustainable and healthy way. Perhaps because of strong opposition from banks and other state institutions, the interest rate controls have not yet been lifted.
过去多年，作为更大胆的改革举措的组成部分，中国的决策者一直承诺要放开利率，其目的是让市场在经济中发挥更大的作用，使经济以更持续、更健康的方式实现增长。也许是出于银行和其他国有机构的强烈反对，国家对利率的控制仍未放开。
Analysts say the government’s decision to permit Internet companies to offer a wide range of investment and financial services is an effort to create alternatives to state banks and, in effect, loosen interest rate controls.
分析人士说，政府决定允许互联网公司提供更广泛的投资和金融服务，此举是为了打造国有银行之外的其他选择，而说到底，是为了放松对利率的管制。
While the money involved is relatively small — about $50 billion in a $9 trillion economy — the phenomenal growth of Internet finance is intensifying competition for deposits and putting pressure on China’s dominant state-run banks, which are already struggling to cope with a severe cash squeeze. Internet finance is also emerging at a time when the government is trying to contain the growth of shadow banking, which could be masking huge risks and liabilities that exist outside the purview of regulators.
尽管这些服务涉及的金额相对较小——在9万亿美元的经济总量中只占500亿美元——然而，互联网金融的惊人增长正在加剧业内对存款的竞争，给在中国占统治地位的国有银行施加压力，后者已经备受资金严重缩减的困扰。互联网金融的出现，还正赶上政府设法遏制影子银行发展的当口，影子银行会掩盖在监管者视野之外存在的巨大的风险和债务。
Not everyone is pleased. In recent weeks, critics have referred to the online products as “vampires sucking blood out of banks,” and warned that investors may not be aware of the risks. Chinese regulators said in late February that they are considering new rules to govern the sector.
不是所有人都心花怒放。近几周，批评者已经把互联网产品斥责为“吸食银行血液的吸血鬼”，并警告称，投资者可能没有意识到风险。中国监管机构在2月末表示，它们正在考虑管理这一行业的新规则。
For their part, the leaders in Internet finance, such as Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent, play down the risks of their new investment products. They say they are operating within the law and putting the cash to work in investments that carry low risk. There are, of course, serious challenges ahead for Internet finance in China, analysts say. For instance, although the online deposits are promoted as if they were savings accounts, they are investment products that carry risk. The principle is not guaranteed, and if consumers begin to suffer losses, analysts say, there could be a flood of redemptions.
从阿里巴巴、百度和腾讯等互联网金融行业领导者的角度而言，它们在淡化新投资产品的风险。他们表示，它们的业务是合法运营的，并且将资金用于低风险的投资。分析人士说，中国的互联网金融行业当然面临着严重的挑战。举例来说，尽管网络储蓄推广时是以类似储蓄账户的方式进行的，可它们依然是具有风险的投资产品。分析人士说，这类产品是不保本的，如果消费者开始蒙受损失，就会出现挤兑狂潮。
For the last decade, the government has aided state-run banks by placing a ceiling on the savings deposit rate and a floor on bank lending rates. The wide spread between the two, known as the net interest spread, has helped banks pocket fat profits that they needed to restructure after massive losses in the 1990s.
过去十年里，政府通过限定最高储蓄利率和最低贷款利率支援了国有银行，这两种利率之间的大块利差，也即净息差，帮银行获得了丰厚的利润，这些利润对于在上世纪90年代蒙受巨大损失的银行其后进行改组是不可获缺的。
Savers, on the other hand, have seen the value of their cash deposits deteriorate, since the rate of inflation has usually been higher than the government-controlled deposit rate. Economists say the policy has acted like a tax on savers.
另一方面，储户们却一直看着自己的现金存款不断缩水，原因是通胀率通常比政府控制的储蓄率要高。经济学家表示，前述政策的执行类似于对储户征了某种税。
It has also forced some wealthy Chinese investors to channel their money into hard assets: art, gold and property. In recent years, many investors have also sought higher yields by buying so-called wealth management products through financial leasing companies, trust companies and even local banks. The products, though, can be risky because the money is often used to finance high-interest loans to developers and local government infrastructure companies.
这种政策也迫使一些富裕的中国投资者将他们的资金转移至艺术品、黄金和房地产这类硬资产。近来年，许多投资者纷纷通过金融租赁公司、信托公司甚至是本地的银行购买所谓的理财产品，以追求较高的回报。但这些产品可能具有风险，因为它们的资金常常会以高息形式借贷给房地产开发商和当地政府的基础设施公司.
Now, investors are turning to online investment products. The high rates offered by products like Yu’e Bao are exposing weaknesses in China’s financial system, where investors have fewer options than in the West, especially with fixed interest rates.
如今，投资者纷纷开始转向互联网投资产品。像余额宝这样的高利率产品恰恰暴露了中国金融体系的薄弱之处，特别是在实施固定利率的情况下，中国投资者的选择比西方投资者要少。
Major Chinese Internet companies are now disrupting those controls by offering enticing yields aimed at ordinary savers with spare cash, people like Gao Yue, a 25-year-old health care consultant in Beijing. Since October, she has put about $15,000 into her new Yu’e Bao account.
中国大型互联网公司如今正在打破这些制约，纷纷针对有一些手上有闲钱的普通储户推出诱人的高回报产品，这些人里就有25岁的北京医保顾问高月。从10月起，她已经在自己的余额宝账户里存下了约1.5万美元（约合9.2万元人民币）。
“As long as I get a higher return than the regular bank deposit, I’m happy to put my money in there,” she said in an interview. “It’s better than being beaten by inflation.”
“只要收益高于银行存款，我就愿意把钱放在那儿，”她在采访中表示。“这样至少升值幅度会大于通货膨胀率。”
Alibaba is the prime mover in the new business. The company has dominated online shopping for years with its popular websites Taobao and Tmall and even established an arm that lends to small businesses. In 2013, the company’s online payment service, Alipay (a kind of Chinese version of PayPal) moved into banking and finance by partnering with Tianhong Asset Management, a small, state-backed firm. (In October, Alipay agreed to pay $200 million to acquire a controlling stake in Tianhong.)
阿里巴巴是这一新领域的引导者。这家公司多年来主宰着网购市场，旗下有用户众多的淘宝和天猫，甚至还成立了为小企业提供借贷的业务分支。2013年，公司的在线支付服务、中国版贝宝(Paypal)支付宝与天弘基金管理有限公司联手，进入了银行和金融业。天弘是一家政府支持的小型基金管理公司。10月，支付宝同意投入11.8亿元，拥有了天弘的控股权。
Alipay’s 800 million registered users were then encouraged to transfer any money left over in their online shopping account to Yu’e Bao, the new online fund set up by Tianhong. The rates promoted by Tianhong were higher than those offered by banks.
随后，支付宝开始鼓励它的8亿注册用户将他们在线账户内的任何剩余资金转移至由天弘设立的新网上基金余额宝内。天弘推出基金的回报要高于银行利率。
Soon after, Yu’e Bao took flight. Analysts say Yu’e Bao’s appeal is its simplicity and convenience. Alipay account holders can transfer as little as one renminbi, or about 16 cents, into Yu’e Bao and withdraw the money at any time, without being penalized. They can also get daily earnings updates on their mobile phones.
很快，余额宝的势头便一发不可收拾。分析人士表示，余额宝吸引人的地方是它的简单和便捷。持有支付宝账户的人最少可以转一块钱到余额宝，也随时可以将钱取出，不会受到任何经济损失。他们在自己的手机上就可以查看每日收益。
“What makes Yu’e Bao attractive is the small size. You don’t need to invest much,” says Joe Zhang, a Hong Kong banker. “Small is the killer app.”
香港银行界人士张化桥(Joe Zhang)说，“余额宝的魅力所在是投入之少。你不需要投入大量资金。小巧就是它的杀手锏。”
How does Yu’e Bao get such high rates? Company executives say they invest mostly in the interbank market, where banks and other financial institutions extend loans to one another, usually for short periods. Interbank rates have soared in China during the last year because banks, particularly smaller banks, are desperate for cash.
余额宝为何能有如此高的利率？公司高层表示，他们主要是在银行间市场进行投资。在这个市场上，银行等金融机构会相互进行借贷，通常为短期。去年，由于银行——特别是规模较小的银行——急缺资金，银行间拆借利率开始飞涨。
“Banks are definitely short of cash,” says Charlene Chu, who formerly followed Chinese banks for Fitch Ratings. “This is why the interbank rate is going up.”
之前在惠誉公司(Fitch Ratings)研究中国银行的朱夏莲(Charlene Chu)说，“银行肯定是缺少现金的。这就是为什么银行间拆借利率正在抬高。”
In the United States, PayPal flirted with a similar online money market fund product for years before closing it in 2011. Since then, no major American Internet company has ventured into the banking or investment business.
在美国，贝宝也曾多年投入一项类似的互联网货币市场基金产品，最后在2011年结束运营。自那以后，再也没有大型的美国互联网公司进入银行或投资领域。
But Bill Harris, a former chief executive at PayPal, says American Internet companies are missing a big opportunity. “The reason none of them is doing it is they haven’t tried,” Mr. Harris said. “If a tech firm did it, they could build systems with no humans. Amazon could do it. PayPal could do it. Apple could do it in spades. I think they’re missing the boat.”
但是贝宝前首席执行官比尔·哈里斯(Bill Harris)说，美国互联网公司正在错失一个重要的机会。“没人这么做的原因是他们根本还没有尝试过，”哈里斯说。“如果一家科技公司这么做，他们可以在不需要任何人力的情况下建立起系统。亚马逊(Amazon)可以这么做。贝宝可以这么做。苹果(Apple)可以大手笔地这么做。我认为他们错过了这个机会。”
Analysts say soaring interbank rates are a sign of stress in the banking system, which means banks or financial institutions could default, leading to losses; or if conditions improve, interbank rates could slide, meaning lower interest rates and lower returns for consumers.
分析人士表示，高涨的银行间拆借利率显示了银行业承受的压力，也就是说银行或金融机构可能会违约，导致损失；或者如果情况改善，银行间拆借利率有可能会下降，但这对储户来说也就意味着低利率和低回报。
For now, though, Internet finance looks lucrative. With $40 billion in assets under management, Alibaba and its partners are expected to reap $250 million in revenue annually just from management and service fees. Baidu and Tencent have formed partnerships to offer new funds with other fund companies, including the state-run China Asset Management Company.
但至少从现在来看，互联网金融市场利润可观。阿里巴巴和它的合作伙伴管理着超过2500亿元的资金，他们预计每年仅仅从管理和服务费中就将得到2.5亿美元（约合15亿元人民币）。百度和腾讯也和其他基金公司合作，推出了新的基金产品，合作的公司包括国有的华夏基金管理公司。
“Internet finance is here to stay,” says Johnson Chng, a banking expert at A. T. Kearney, the global advisory firm. “Internet players are targeting a segment that banks don’t look at.”
“互联网金融已经形成气候，”全球管理咨询公司A.T. Kearney的银行业专家庄瑞豪(Johnson Chng)说。“互联网企业所瞄准的那部分市场，是银行不会考虑的。”