BEIJING — A Chinese mining industry group announced on Friday a set of guidelines intended to promote socially responsible behavior among its companies operating overseas.
北京——周五，一个中国矿业协会宣布了一套指导原则，希望能提高在海外运营的中国公司的社会责任感。
The industry group, the China Chamber of Commerce for Minerals, Metals and Chemicals Importers and Exporters, which is affiliated with the government, formally introduced standards for subjects like labor rights, environmental protection and community relations. Overseas companies need to take such issues into account to reduce their investment risks and avoid directly or indirectly harming the countries in which they work, the group said.
与政府有关的中国五矿化工进出口商会正式对劳工权益、环境保护和社区关系等问题提出了标准。商会表示，为了降低投资风险，避免对所在国家造成直接或间接损害，海外企业应对这些问题予以考虑。
The guidelines were developed in collaboration with the German development agency GIZ, and with input from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and Global Witness, an advocacy group that focuses on natural resource management.
这些原则是与发展机构德国国际合作机构(GIZ)共同制定的，经济合作与发展组织（Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development，简称OECD），以及专事自然资源管理的倡导团体全球见证组织(Global Witness)也做出了相应的贡献。
China’s direct overseas investment is immense — reaching $90 billion in 2013 — and the majority of it is in mining.
中国的海外直接投资数额巨大——2013年达900亿美元（约合5500亿元人民币）——其中大部分都在采矿领域。
Tyler Gillard, legal adviser for the responsible business conduct unit of the O.E.C.D., said the push to develop the guidelines came from Chinese companies’ desire to learn better practices. “To our surprise, in our initial meetings with Chinese industry groups, they were in fact making the business case to us for responsible business, whereas it’s normally the other way around.”
OECD的负责任企业行为部门的法律顾问泰勒·吉拉德(Tyler Gillard)称，之所以制定这些指导原则，是因为中国企业想学习更好的做法。“让我们感到意外的是，在最初与中国行业协会见面时，他们从商业角度向我们说明了企业担负责任的好处，而通常这是我们的角色。”
The announcement is part of a wider push for best practices across Chinese industry. The textile, rubber and forestry industries have developed or are developing guidelines of their own.
为了使中国企业遵循最好做法，有关方面采取了一系列举措，此次声明只是其中一部分。纺织、橡胶和森林等行业都已经制定了或者正在制定它们自己的指导原则。
The biggest test will be putting guidelines into effect, but there is cause to be cautiously optimistic, said Lizzie Parsons, senior China adviser at Global Witness. She added that adoption was likely to be slow and piecemeal. “That the guidelines are so comprehensive and so progressive is encouraging, but it also will make it daunting for companies.”
落实这些指导原则将是最大的挑战，但全球见证组织的高级中国顾问莉齐·帕森斯(Lizzie Parsons)说，有理由保持谨慎的乐观。她还表示，落实过程很可能会缓慢而细碎。“这些指导原则内容广泛、非常进步，这让人深受鼓舞，但它也会让企业有些望而怯步。”
Lu Peipei, director of the financing division at the China Hyway Group, which operates mines in Africa, said that she did not find the guidelines overly ambitious but that they would not suit every company. “It’s good to get a deeper understanding of these issues,” she said. “Only when you have the knowledge can you even think about more formally undertaking this kind of work.”
中国浩远集团有限公司财务部门负责人吕佩佩说，她并不认为这些原则过于激进，但它们并不适用于每家公司。“能对这些事情有更深刻的了解是好事，”她说。“只有当你拥有这些知识时，你才会考虑更正式地开展此类工作。”
The chamber on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding with the O.E.C.D. to create more detailed directives for enacting the guidelines. The chamber plans to promote the guidelines on its website and through training sessions and communication with companies.
周五，商会与OECD签署了一项合作备忘录，意图为这些原则的实施制定更详细的说明。商会打算通过网站、培训性会议，以及与公司进行的交流来宣传这些原则。
Guo Hongjun, a department director at the chamber, expressed confidence that the group would not need direct government involvement and that companies facing challenges abroad would seek direction. “We are determined to accomplish what we have set forth but can’t forcibly require people to follow our guidelines,” he said.
商会的部门负责人郭洪军表示，他相信商会不需要政府的直接干预，在海外面临挑战的企业将主动寻求指导。他说，“我们决意达成我们最初的目标，但我们不能强求人们去遵循这些原则。”