Ten Chinese workers in northern Cameroon are missing following an attack last week by gunmen, the Chinese Embassy in the West African country said.
中国驻喀麦隆使馆称，上周，西非国家喀麦隆北部发生了一起枪手袭击事件，导致10名中国工人失踪。
The embassy said the identity of the assailants was unknown, but it noted that the area had seen frequent attacks by Boko Haram, the militant Islamist group that has said it kidnapped more than 200 girls last month in northern Nigeria, an act that has triggered worldwide condemnation and pledges of assistance from the United States and other countries to help track them down.
该使馆称尚不清楚袭击者的身份，同时指出，伊斯兰武装组织“博科圣地”(Boko Haram)曾多次在事发地区发动袭击。该组织上月声称在尼日利亚北部绑架了200多名女孩，这一行为招致了国际社会的谴责，促使美国和其他一些国家承诺协助追查女孩的下落。
The Chinese Embassy said in its statement on Saturday that one worker was seriously wounded in the attack on the camp in Cameroon, near the country’s border with Nigeria. The worker was sent to a hospital in Chad for treatment, Lu Qingjiang, the embassy’s political counselor, told the Chinese state news agency Xinhua.
中国驻喀麦隆使馆周六在声明中称，一家中国企业在靠近尼日利亚边界的喀麦隆项目营地遭到袭击，一名工人受重伤。该使馆政务参赞陆青江对中国国家通讯社新华社称，受伤工人已被送到乍得的一家医院接受治疗。
The workers were employed by a local subsidiary of Sinohydro Corporation, a Chinese state-owned company that builds dams and other infrastructure, Xinhua reported. The group was working on a road improvement project.
新华社消息称，这些工人是中国水利水电建设股份有限公司在喀麦隆一家分公司的雇员，遇袭时正在参与一个改善路况的项目。中水电是修筑大坝和其他基础设施的国有企业。
The workers took shelter Friday night after hearing gunshots and grenades exploding outside their camp, Lan Ronghe, a company official, told Xinhua.
该公司管理人员蓝荣和告诉新华社，周五夜间，这些工人听到营地外面有枪声和手榴弹爆炸声，之后便躲了起来。
“The armed attackers forced their way into the camp, raided a housing building and started all 10 vehicles parked in the camp. Then the gunfire became more and more intense. We thought they were exchanging fire with the Cameroonian forces since we had called them for help,” Mr. Lan said.
蓝荣和说，“一伙不明身份的武装分子冲进营地，洗劫了一栋宿舍楼，并将营地内10部车辆全部发动。此后，营地内部及周围枪声更加激烈，匪徒与赶到的喀军警交火。”
After the shooting stopped, the Chinese workers found 10 colleagues missing and one who had been shot twice, Mr. Lan said. He told Xinhua the wounded worker was expected to survive.
蓝荣和说，枪声停下之后，中国工人发现有10名同事失踪，另有一名同事中了两枪。他告诉新华社，受伤工人没有生命危险。
The Chinese Embassy noted that the area where the workers went missing had seen several kidnappings attributed to Boko Haram, including that of a French family that was held for two months last year. No group has claimed responsibility for the kidnapping of the Chinese workers, Xinhua said.
中国驻喀麦隆使馆指出，“博科圣地”曾在工人失踪事件发生的地区进行过多起绑架，去年，一个法国家庭曾被该组织绑架了两个月。新华社称，迄今尚无任何组织声称对绑架这些中国工人负责。