Quick. Name a Chinese fashion designer. Despite China’s importance in the global luxury market and the growth of its fashion industry, few of its designers are well-known names in the West.
快，说出一个中国时装设计师的名字。尽管中国在全球奢侈品市场上相当重要，本国时装业也在发展，但在西方享有知名度的中国设计师却寥寥无几。
It is a situation that Gemma Williams, who curates fashion exhibitions in London, hopes to improve with the publication of “Fashion China” by Thames & Hudson in the spring of 2015.
伦敦时装策展人杰玛·威廉姆斯(Gemma Williams)希望通过一本新书来改善这种情况，她的《时尚中国》(Fashion China)将于2015年春由泰晤士与赫德森出版公司(Thames & Hudson)发行。
“It is hard to find them because of the language barrier, in part,” said Ms. Williams, 34, who is going to China this month to identify new brands to write about. “Even designers like Guo Pei, who has 450 people working for her and created Olympics outfits, aren’t known by some of my Chinese friends.”
“要找到他们很难，这部分上是因为语言障碍，”34岁的威廉姆斯说，她本月将去中国寻找新的品牌来写。“即便是像郭培这样的设计师，雇佣了450名员工，设计了奥运会服装，我的一些中国朋友也不知道她。”
Ms. Williams has been working on the book for six months, beginning with the creation of a committee to choose which designers to include in a final group of 40 to 50. Among the committee members is Liu Wen, who is considered China’s first supermodel and who was ranked fifth on Forbes’s list of top-paid models for 2013.
这本书威廉姆斯已经写了6个月，第一步是组建一个委员会，来选择要写哪些设计师，一共要写40到50人。委员会成员包括有“中国第一名模”之称的刘雯，她在《福布斯》2013年薪酬最高的模特名单中位居第五。
“Fashion has always been about sharing art and culture,” Ms. Liu said in an email, “and this will be a great reflection of what China has to offer and help to reveal the hidden gems.”
“时装总是跟分享艺术和文化有关，”刘雯在一封电子邮件表示，“这将是对中国时装的精彩展示，并且也有助于发掘尚不为人所知的珍宝。”
Ms. Williams wants the book to be used by the fashion industry at large, including buyers, as “a snapshot of who is important now.” She also hopes it will provide insight into China’s fashion universe, where many people appear to be turning away from international luxury brands in favor of local designers.
威廉姆斯希望包括买手的整个时尚界，都能把这本书作为“当下重要人物抓拍”来使用。她也希望这本书能提供一些洞见，帮助人们了解中国时装界，那里的很多人的目光似乎正在从国际奢侈品牌转向本土设计师。
“There is a confidence growing in China, with having faith in their designers,” she said. “What is interesting is the difference between those trained there and here. I am trying to tweak that out in the interviews. It is more designer-lead here and there is an emphasis on manufacturing there, for example.”
“中国人的自信在增长，他们对本土设计师有信心，”她说。“有意思的是，中国培养的从业者和西方的有差别。我试图在采访中引出这种不同。比如，西方的时装业更多地是由设计者牵头，而中国对制造环节非常重视。”
In the introduction to her book, Ms. Williams said she plans to write about the Chinese market, including buying habits, which are often dictated by friends and family, but also influenced by celebrity endorsements.
在对这本书的简介中，威廉姆斯说，她打算写写包括购买习惯在内的中国市场，中国人购买时装是往往跟着朋友和家人亦步亦趋，但是也受到明星代言的影响。
“The Chinese are quite patriotic,” she said. “When the first lady got off the plane in Russia last year wearing a local designer, Exception, their website crashed,” she said, referring to President Xi Jinping’s visit to Moscow last March and the stir caused by his wife, Peng Liyuan.
“中国人非常爱国，”她说。“去年，当第一夫人穿着本土设计品牌‘例外’在俄罗斯下飞机时，很多人涌到这个品牌的网站上，导致了网站瘫痪。”她指的是习近平去年3月访问莫斯科时，第一夫人彭丽媛引发的轰动。
“They also love celebrity endorsement and Fan Bingbing has been a big supporter,” she said of the Chinese actress whose credits include “Lost in Thailand” and “Shaolin,” and who has given Chinese fashion a major boost.
“他们也喜欢名人代言的时装，范冰冰是一个重要的代言明星，”她说。范冰冰是一名中国女演员，电影作品有《泰囧》和《新少林寺》等，她对中国时装起到了重要的推动作用。
Much has been written about home-grown fashion in China, but the concept of taking the pulse of new designers for an industry readership is new, Ms. Williams said.
人们已经写过很多关于中国本土时装的内容，但威廉姆斯说，帮助时装业内读者了解新设计师仍是一个新角度。
“China is already famous for fashion manufacturing and fashion consumers,” said Valerie Steele, the director and chief curator at the Museum of the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York, which staged an exhibition in 1999 called “China Chic: East Meets West.” “The emergence of Chinese fashion designers will position China as an even more important fashion power.”
“作为时装制造国和时装消费国，中国已经很有名气，”纽约时装技术学院博物馆(Museum of the Fashion Institute of Technology)馆长兼首席策展人瓦莱丽·斯蒂尔(Valerie Steele)说，该博物馆1999年举办了名为《中国时尚：中西合璧》(China Chic: East Meets West)的展览，“中国时装设计师的崭露头角，将让中国成为时装业中一股更加重要的力量。”
Yiqing Yin, the Chinese-born designer who in January was named the creative director for the French fashion house Leonard, will be featured in Ms. Williams’s book.
殷亦晴是一位出生于中国的时装设计师，今年1月被任命为法国时装品牌李奥纳德(Leonard)的创意总监，她会出现在威廉姆斯的书中。
Ms. Yin, who was born in Beijing, has probably made more inroads into the European fashion world than any of her compatriots. She left China when she was 4, studied at the École Nationale Supérieure des Arts Décoratifs in Paris and has been a guest member of the Chambre Syndicale de la Couture Parisienne since 2012, an honor for a young designer. On Monday she presented her first collection for Leonard in Paris.
殷亦晴出生于北京，她在欧洲时尚界发展的势头可能超过了其他所有中国设计师。她4岁离开中国，就读于巴黎国立高等装饰艺术学院(École Nationale Supérieure des Arts Décoratifs)。从2012年起，她成为巴黎时装业公会(Chambre Syndicale de la Couture Parisienne)特邀会员，这对年轻设计师来说是一种荣誉。本周一，她为李奥纳德操刀的第一个时装系列在巴黎进行了展示。
She has a clear vision: “To create the new Leonard woman, who will be cool and young,” she said from her Paris atelier a stone’s throw from Belleville, one of the French capital’s Chinatowns.
她有一个清晰的愿景：“塑造李奥纳德新的女士形象，她们又酷又年轻。”她在巴黎的工作室跟该市的贝尔维尔唐人街相隔不远。
Ms. Yin said she remained inspired by China. “My parents were antiques dealers,” she said, “and I was influenced as a young child by the beauty and history of Chinese luxury.”
殷亦晴说，中国依然激发着她的灵感。她说，“我的父母是古董商。孩提时代，中国奢侈品的精美和历史就影响到了我。”
Ms. Williams also plans to write about the designers Yifang Wan, Masha Ma, Xander Zhou, Huishan Zhang, Renli Su, Uma Wang and Xiao Li.
威廉姆斯还计划撰文介绍设计师万一方、马玛莎、周翔宇、张卉山、苏仁莉、王汁和李筱。
Ms. Li, also 26, a graduate of the Royal College of Art in London who is creating a project for Diesel, won a Fashion Scout award and had her first runway show at London Fashion Week last month. She acknowledged that Chinese designers were drawing increasing attention in both China and the West, but said she planned to stay in London for now.
26岁的李筱是伦敦皇家艺术学院(Royal College of Art in London)的毕业生，她正在为Diesel品牌创立一个项目，她是Fashion Scout奖的得主，上个月，她在伦敦时装周(London Fashion Week)举办了自己的首场时装秀。她承认，不管在中国还是在西方，中国设计师都正引起越来越多的关注，不过她说，她计划暂时留在伦敦。
“People in China are desperate for fashion and all the magazines come to me looking for young Chinese talent,” said Ms. Li, who has been featured in Vogue Italy, British Vogue, The Financial Times and I-D Online, among other publications.
李筱说，“国内的人对时尚如饥似渴，所有的杂志都来找我，寻找年轻的中国时尚人才。”《Vogue》杂志的意大利版和英国版、《金融时报》(The Financial Times)、I-D Online和其他一些出版物都对李筱进行过专题报道。
Ms. Williams also plans to write about Haizhen Wang, a graduate of Central Saint Martins in London who was born in Dalian, China; he won the Fashion Fringe award in London in September 2012. Inside his cramped workroom, Mr. Wang gave instructions to his Chinese-speaking staff and inspected a luxurious Italian wool and cashmere jacket he had designed. “My biggest market since last season is China,” he said. “Right now, it is a great moment to be a Chinese designer.”
威廉姆斯还计划撰文介绍王海震，他是中央圣马丁艺术设计学院(Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design)的毕业生，出生在中国大连；2012年9月，他在伦敦赢得了时尚边缘奖(Fashion Fringe award)。王海震在狭小的工作室里指导说中文的下属，查看自己设计的一件奢华的意大利羊毛羊绒夹克。他说，“自上一季起，我最大的市场就变成了中国。此时正是中国设计师的好时光。”
But things are rapidly changing, and Mr. Wang plans to stay in London, he said, to solidify a presence in the West.
不过，局面正在迅速发生变化，王海震说，他计划待在伦敦，以巩固他在西方时尚界的地位。
Ms. Williams acknowledged that even if the Western media are showing increasing interest in Chinese designers, there are still few stores in the West that stock their clothes. “Chinese design is still relatively niche in London,” she said, noting that Browns and Selfridges have carried limited collections. She added: “In America they are talking about Chinese design, but it will take a while.”
威廉姆斯承认，即使西方媒体对中国设计师显得越来越有兴趣，在西方，却依然鲜有店家大量采购他们的服装。“中国人的设计在伦敦占据的市场依然相对较小。”她说，同时指出，布朗和塞尔福里奇百货公司(Browns and Selfridges)里他们设计的服装仍相当有限。她还说，“在美国，人们在谈论中国设计，不过真正流行起来还需要一段时间。”
“People are quite eager to put China on a level with global fashion,” she continued. And that, she said, is what her book aims to do.
她继续说，“人们十分渴望能让中国时尚业达到世界水平。”她说，这正是她这本书的目的。