Teams of tomb robbers used knowledge of traditional feng shui, high-tech probing devices and the help of archaeologists to steal tens of millions of dollars’ worth of antiquities, the Chinese authorities said.
中国官方表示，一些盗墓团伙利用传统风水知识和高科技探测设备，在考古人员的帮助下，窃取了价值数亿元人民币的文物。
The police arrested 175 people across six provinces for theft and trafficking of more than 1,000 objects worth an estimated 500 million renminbi (about $80 million) in what the Ministry of Public Security on Tuesday called the biggest antiquities trafficking case since the founding of the People’s Republic in 1949.The stolen objects spanned thousands of years, from the Neolithic period to the Qing Dynasty, which ended in 1911. One of the most precious was a jade “pig dragon,” an object associated with the Hongshan culture that existed about 5,000 years ago in what is now Inner Mongolia and the northeastern province of Liaoning.
警方在六个省份抓获犯罪嫌疑人175名，这些人共偷盗和销售了1000多件文物，价值估计逾5亿元人民币。公安部周二表示，这是自1949年中华人民共和国成立以来，规模最大的一起文物盗销案。被盗文物的历史跨越数千年，上至新石器时代，下至止于1911年的清朝。其中最珍贵的是玉猪龙，这件文物与约5000年前的红山文化有关。红山文化位于今内蒙古地区和东北部的辽宁省。
The investigation was prompted by the discovery in June 2014 of unauthorized excavations in Liaoning.
2014年6月，民警发现辽宁存在非法探挖活动，相关调查由此展开。
“The signs of digging were all surrounding historic ruins, deep in the mountains, off the beaten track,” Wang Hongyan, the cultural relics protection bureau chief for the Chaoyang city Public Security Bureau, told The Beijing Times.
朝阳市公安局文物保卫分局局长王红岩告诉《京华时报》，“出现探挖痕迹的地方都在遗址的外围，地处深山老林，平时人迹罕至。”
The police arrested three people who in turn led them to a wide-ranging criminal network. One of the main suspects, who was identified only by the surname Yao, was described as a master tomb raider, The Beijing Times said. He was able to look at a site and determine the best place to dig for loot by applying feng shui, traditional principles of geomancy, the newspaper reported. Others employed more modern techniques, including the use of mineral prospecting devices to help find objects underground.
警方逮捕了三名嫌犯，这些人又把他们引向了规模更大的犯罪网络。据《京华时报》报道，其中一个主要嫌犯姓姚（文中只提到了他的姓氏），他被称作盗墓高手。该报报道称，他能运用风水这种传统堪舆学来“看山”，以确定最佳盗掘地点。还有人会使用更现代的技术，包括使用探矿仪器来探测地下的文物。
Suspects included people tasked with digging up the objects and trading them through illicit antiquities markets. A few archaeologists were also arrested.
嫌犯中包括负责挖掘文物的人，以及通过非法文物市场销赃的人。几名考古人员也被逮捕。
One, a Liaoning archaeologist surnamed Deng, told The Beijing Times that he had always done his best to protect cultural treasures. But when he came across the jade pig dragon during a dig, he said, he saw it as a way to help solve his personal financial problems. He sold the object to a collector for 3.2 million renminbi (about $520,000). After paying a third of the sum to a middleman, he used the remainder to buy a house for himself and another for his parents.
辽宁的邓姓考古人员告诉《京华时报》，他原来一直在尽最大努力保护文化遗产。他说，但他在一次挖掘工作中发现玉猪龙时，他认为这件文物可以帮自己解决个人财务问题。于是，他以320万元人民币把这件文物卖给了一个收藏者。在把其中三分之一支付给一名中间人后，他用剩下的钱给自己和父母分别购买了一套房子。