HONG KONG —  China, long the world’s factory, is becoming more service-oriented.
香港——长期充当“世界工厂”的中国现在正越来越关注服务业。
Sports apparel retailers like Li Ning, Anta Sports and 361 Degrees have thousands of stores around the country. The Alibaba Group, founded in 1999, has swelled into an e-commerce giant with more than 20,000 employees and sales of $1.7 billion in the second quarter of this year. And Tencent, which runs Web portals and chat services, has a market capitalization of nearly $100 billion.
李宁、安踏体育和361度等运动服装品牌都在全国拥有数千家零售店。创办于1999年的阿里巴巴集团已经壮大为一家电子商务巨头，该集团目前拥有超过2万名员工，今年第二季度的销售总额达17亿美元（约合人民币103.5亿元）。而旗下拥有门户网站和多个聊天工具的腾讯，市值已接近1000亿美元。
This reflects a maturation of China’s economy, as the country becomes a place where services play an increasingly important role as the population grows richer. Already, China’s nonmanufacturing activity accounts for nearly 45 percent of the economy, about as much as the manufacturing sector. The remainder is agriculture.
这反映出中国经济正逐步走向成熟。随着人口变得更加富裕，服务业在中国正扮演着越来越重要的角色。中国的非制造业活动在经济总量中的比重已达到45%，基本与制造业齐平。其余部分为农业。
The development is being encouraged by the policy makers who are gathering in Beijing this week for a four-day meeting on how to overhaul China’s economy. Their goal is to reduce the dominance of the heavy industry, manufacturing and investment in infrastructure that were for decades the driving forces of China’s sizzling growth.
中国的决策者鼓励这种变化的发生。本周，他们正在北京召开一个为期四天的会议，讨论如何改革中国经济。他们的目标是削弱重工业、制造业和基础设施投资的主导地位，这些领域几十年来一直驱动着中国炙手可热的经济增长。
They have aimed to diversify the economy and foster more productive growth by raising the share of activity generated by the service sector, which spans areas as diverse as logistics, tourism, engineering, health care and information technology.
他们打算通过提高服务业活动的比重使经济多样化，实现更富有成效的经济增长。服务业涵盖五花八门的领域，包括物流、旅游、工程设计、医疗保健和信息技术。
“The direction is pretty clear,” said Jian Chang, the China economist at the British bank Barclays. “They want to invigorate the service sector, which they see as a key source of future growth.”
英国巴克莱银行(Barclays)的中国经济学家常健说，“方向非常清晰。他们想要振兴服务业，他们认为这是未来经济增长的一个关键来源。”
China’s service sector is still small in percentage terms compared with those of Britain and the United States, where a vast array of services makes up almost 80 percent of the economy. But the sector has roughly doubled its share of the Chinese economy since 1980, according to the World Bank.
与英美两国相比，中国服务业的比重仍然很小。在英国和美国，林林总总的服务行业占了经济的差不多80%。但根据世界银行(World Bank)的数据，自1980年以来，这个领域在中国经济中的比重已经大约增加了一倍。
“The rebalancing of the economy,” Ms. Chang said, “is already underway.”
常健说，“经济再平衡的过程已经开始。”
The swing has been driven largely by three decades of rapid economic growth that have left many of China’s 1.3 billion inhabitants able to spend more money well beyond their necessities. Much of this extra spending power has gone into cars and refrigerators. But it has also fanned demand for movies, better health care, meals at fast food restaurants, education and tutoring.
这种改变的驱动力很大程度上来自中国长达30年的快速经济增长。这种增长让中国13亿人口中的许多人有钱购买生活必需品以外的东西。这种额外消费能力中的许多已经投向了汽车和冰箱。它同时也推动了对电影、更优质医疗保健服务、快餐店食品、教育以及培训的需求。
“Manufacturing will remain a key pillar of the economy — but at the margin, future growth will come from the services industry,” said Wang Tao, the economist for China at UBS. “As people get richer, they want more quality of life.”
瑞银(UBS)的中国经济学家汪涛说，“制造业仍将是经济的关键支柱——但已达极限，未来的增长将来自服务业。随着人们越来越有钱，他们想要更有质量的生活。”
More recently, the economic turmoil in the West has accentuated the shift by undermining demand for the toys, shoes, machinery and other goods that are churned out by the country’s export-dependent manufacturing sector. At the same time, the new leadership’s eagerness to rein in the excess capacities that plague parts of the Chinese economy has hit sectors like steel manufacturing.
前不久，西方的经济动荡削弱了对依赖出口的中国制造业生产的大量玩具、鞋类、机械和其他商品的需求，进而加速了上述转变。与此同时，新的领导班子急于控制中国经济部分领域的过剩产能，这打击了钢铁制造业等领域。
Business surveys produced by the national statistics bureau have highlighted this divergence in recent months. While the index measuring activity in the manufacturing sector has been languishing for the last year, the nonmanufacturing index has held up relatively well.
中国国家统计局最近几个月对企业界的调查结果突显了这种转向。衡量制造业活动的指数过去一年一直低迷，相比之下，非制造业指数的表现良好。
One of the biggest beneficiaries of this newfound spending power is the tourism sector, which has exploded as China’s middle class embraces domestic and foreign travel. Visitor numbers at the Great Wall, the karst mountains around Guilin or the seaside resorts of the southern island of Hainan have soared in recent years — as have the flights, hotels and bars that cater to travelers.
从这种新消费能力中受益的包括旅游业，由于中国中产阶对国内外旅游的热衷，旅游业已经呈爆炸式增长。长城、桂林喀斯特地貌的群山，以及南方海南岛的海滨度假区的游客数量最近几年急剧增长——满足游客需要的航班、酒店和酒吧的数量也急剧上升。
The flurry of activity is positive not just from the point of view of rebalancing the economy, but also from the perspective of job creation, economists say.
经济学家们说，上述活动的突然爆发是积极的，不仅有利于平衡经济，也有利于创造就业。
Already, service sector companies employ more people in China than manufacturers. And the jobs generated by logistics centers, hotels, software companies and airlines tend to be not just numerous but also generally more suited to the millions of young Chinese who graduate from high schools and universities every year, and who are reluctant to take jobs on factory assembly lines.
与此同时，服务型企业在中国雇佣的人数已经超过了制造业。物流中心、酒店、软件公司和航空公司创造的就业岗位不仅数量巨大，而且往往更适合数百万每年从高中和大学毕业的中国年轻人，他们不愿意在工厂的流水线上工作。
Along with rising wealth, urbanization — which Beijing is pushing aggressively in a bid to raise living standards, consumption and productivity — will fan demand for services such as transportation, education, and waste and traffic management.
除了日益增长的财富，城市化——中国政府正在积极推进城市化，从而提高生活水平、消费和生产力——将会推动对运输、教育，以及废物和交通管理等服务的需求。
Growth on those fronts, however, is going to take time, analysts caution. And while bars, beauty parlors and fast-food eateries have mushroomed, growth in other areas is likely to be constrained by political concerns and by opposition from established — often state-controlled — companies.
不过，分析师们提醒说，这些领域的增长将需要时间。尽管酒吧、美容美发厅和快餐店如雨后春笋般涌现，其他领域的增长很可能因为人们对政治环境的担忧而受到限制，也会受到一些知名企业——通常是国有企业——的反对。
Take health care. Rising affluence and an aging population mean that demand for hospitals and health care centers will soar, raising the pressure on the authorities to increase supply by allowing private sector entities to play a bigger role.
以医疗保健领域为例。中国不断增长的财富和日益加剧的人口老龄化意味着，对医院和保健中心的需求将会激增，这增加了要求政府允许私营实体扮演更大角色从而增加供应的压力。
But the sector, said Kevin Lai, chief regional economist Daiwa Securities in Hong Kong, is dominated by state-controlled companies, so any efforts to allow more competition are likely to run into vested interests.
大和证券(Daiwa Securities)驻香港的首席地区经济学家赖志文(Kevin Lai)说，这一领域被国有企业主导，因此，任何引入更多竞争的行动都可能触及既得利益。
“They have been trying to reduce the reliance on manufacturing, but that does not mean they are willing to allow the private sector to participate in areas like education or the media,” Mr. Lai said.
赖志文说，“他们一直在努力减少对制造业的依赖，但是这并不意味着他们愿意允许私营企业参与到教育或媒体等领域。”
Despite the resistance, the forces pushing for change — both from the top leadership and demands from a growing middle class — are expected to increase the service sector’s share of the economy to 57 percent or more by 2030, estimates Louis Kuijs, chief China economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland and a former China economist at the World Bank.
前世界银行中国经济学家、苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)的首席中国经济学家高路易(Louis Kuijs)估计，尽管面临阻力，推动变革的种种力量——既包括最高领导层，也包括日益庞大的中产阶级的各种需求——预计将使服务业在经济中的比重到2030年增加到57%或者更多。
“The sector is going to be a big part of the China story going forward,” Mr. Kuijs said. “I think people will pay much more attention to it in the future.”
高路易说，“这个领域将是未来中国故事的重要部分。我相信人们未来会给它更多关注。”