Canyon Lake Ranch was once a playground for Christian day campers, and then was a corporate retreat with water-skiing, barbecues and cowboy shoot-‘em-up shows. Hawks now circle above 108 sunbaked acres occupied by copperhead snakes, a few coyotes and the occasional construction truck.
峡谷湖牧场(Canyon Lake Ranch)曾是基督徒日间野营活动的胜地，后来成了服务商界人士的度假村，提供滑水、烧烤与牛仔射击表演等娱乐项目。如今，这片108英亩（约合44万平方米）的土地经受着太阳炙烤，老鹰在上空盘旋，地上则有铜头蛇、三三两两的郊狼，以及不时出现的工程车。
Soon this ranch will be a gated subdivision of 99 mini-mansions designed for buyers from mainland China. The developer, Zhang Long, a Beijing businessman, is keeping three plots to build his own estate along the site of an old rodeo arena.
不久之后，这座牧场就会变成针对中国大陆买家的封闭式住宅区，包含99座迷你豪宅。开发商名叫张龙，来自北京。他留了三个地块给自己建造房产，旁边就是一座旧的牛仔竞技场。
This luxury development 35 miles northwest of Dallas is the latest frontier in a global buying phenomenon as Chinese money becomes a major force in real estate around the world. The flood of money is likely to persist despite the current tumult in China. While a currency devaluation and stock market crash have crimped the country’s buying power overseas, the resulting uncertainty is making many Chinese individuals and companies eager to invest anywhere except their home country.
这个奢华开发项目距离达拉斯35英里（约合56公里），在城市的西北方向。在中国的资金成为世界各地房地产项目的主要力量之际，该项目走在了这一全球购买现象的最新前沿。尽管中国经济处于波动之中，但这股汹涌的资金流很可能会持续下去。虽然货币贬值和股灾严重影响了中国的海外购买力，由此带来的不确定性却又使不少中国民众与企业急于在家乡之外的地方投资。
In London, Chinese investors are purchasing high-end apartments in wealthy neighborhoods and big skyscrapers in the financial district. In Canada, they are paying $1 million for modest bungalows in Vancouver. In Australia, a Chinese sovereign wealth fund bought nine office towers, one of the biggest real estate transactions in that nation’s history.
在伦敦，中国投资者买下富裕街区的高端公寓和金融区的摩天大楼。在加拿大，他们肯在温哥华掏上100万美元购买简朴的平房。在澳大利亚，一家中国主权财富基金一口气买下了九栋办公楼，使之跻身该国历史上最大宗的房地产交易之列。
In the United States, the home-buying spree began on the coasts, where Chinese buyers snapped up luxury condos in Manhattan and McMansions in Silicon Valley, pushing up home values in big cities. It is now spreading to the middle of the country, where prices are more modest and have room to run.
在美国，这股买房热始于东西两岸。中国买家抢购曼哈顿的豪华共管公寓和硅谷的大型豪宅，抬升了大城市的房价。眼下，这一趋势延伸到了美国中部——那里的房价较为温和，也有升值的空间。
The homes here in Corinth will feature two master suites, one for the buyers, the other for aging parents. A concierge service will help new arrivals from overseas order Internet service and pay electric bills. Chauffeurs will ferry homeowners until they learn to navigate the loops and spurs of Texas freeways.
科林斯这一住宅项目的特色是两套主人房，一套买家住，另一套则留给年老的父母。礼宾服务部会帮助来自海外的新住户订购互联网服务、支付电费账单。专属司机会载着房主出游，直到他们熟悉了德克萨斯公路的种种状况。
“When Chairman Zhang saw the strength of the Texan economy, he decided it was time that the Asian community should be presented an opportunity to invest in the American Dream,” marketing materials for the development read.
“张龙董事长看到了德克萨斯的经济优势，决定应为亚洲群体提供投资美国梦的机会，”这一开发项目的营销资料中写道。
The great property rush is part of the tidal wave of Chinese money that is pouring into the global economy and reshaping financial markets. In residential and commercial real estate, the new flow of cash is upending the traditional dynamics of buying and selling.
这股房地产热属于中国资金涌入全球经济体、重塑金融市场的热潮的一部分。在住宅和商业地产领域，这股新的现金流正在颠覆传统的买卖模式。
This year, Chinese families represented for the first time the largest group of overseas home buyers in the United States. Big spenders on new homes are helping prop up local economies in the Midwest. But in dense areas like San Francisco and Manhattan, they are also affecting the affordability and availability of housing, as demand outpaces supply and bidding wars ensue.
今年，中国家庭首次成为在美国置业的最大海外群体。购入新房的大买家在帮助支撑中西部的地方经济。不过在旧金山和曼哈顿等人口稠密的地区，随着需求超过了供应及竞购战的打响，他们也在影响人们对住宅价格的承受力，并引发紧俏状况。
While Chinese purchases make up a small sliver of overall sales in the United States, they have had a disproportionate impact on the market for more expensive properties, buying one in 14 homes sold for more than $1 million. On average, buyers from China, including the mainland, Taiwan and Hong Kong, pay $831,800 for a home, more than three times as much as Americans spend, according to a National Association of Realtors survey.
尽管中国人购买的住宅仅占美国整体销售的一小部分，但它们在较为高端的市场上发挥了与其数量不符的巨大影响，超过100万美元的房产中，有十四分之一是中国人购买的。根据全美房地产经纪人协会(National Association of Realtors)的调查数据，中国大陆、香港和台湾三地的买家在美国购房平均花费83.18万美元，比美国人高出两倍多。
Some Chinese are buying homes as pure investments, capitalizing on surging rents in many parts of the United States. Others are trying to move their money beyond the reach of the Chinese government.
一些中国人购房单纯是为了投资，从美国诸多地区飙升的房租上牟利。还有一些人是为了让中国政府无法染指他们的钱财。
Many buyers have their children’s education in mind, picking up homes in good school districts or close to universities. At the upper echelon, the wealthy are hoping for green cards, joining with developers to take advantage of a federal program that fast-tracks them for residency.
许多买家购房时会考虑子女的教育问题，在好的学区或靠近大学的地方置业。在上层人士中间，富人希望得到绿卡，于是同开发商一起利用联邦政府的一个项目来快速获取居留权。
Eric Du, a management and investment consultant from Beijing, was motivated by the potential for his family and his fortune. Over the last two years, he bought a townhouse — sight unseen — and two single-family homes in Northbrook, Ill., north of Chicago. He paid cash for all of them.
埃里克·杜（Eric Du，音）是来自北京的管理与投资顾问 ，他的动力是家人和自身财富的未来。过去两年间，他在芝加哥以北的伊利诺伊州买下了一栋联排别墅——事先并未实地看房——外加两栋独立居所，均以现金购入。
He plans to live in one, to give his children a chance to breathe cleaner air and learn at a better school than he could find in his hometown. He will rent out the other two.
他计划自己住一栋，让孩子有机会呼吸更清新的空气，可以去比在家乡更好的学校学习。另外两栋则会租出去。
“The price of property in Beijing is very high, the stock market is crashing, and the real economy is not stable,” Mr. Du said of the environment in China. “The people here have some money, but they don’t have enough good ways to invest their money.”
“北京的房价很高，股市在崩盘，实体经济又不稳，”杜先生这样评价中国的环境。“这里的人手上有些钱，但好的投资渠道不多。” Courting Buyers
讨好买家
In Shanghai, not far from the banks of the Huangpu River, the offices of Windham Realty are tucked inside a glassy tower where the walls feature a poster of a development in Michigan: the Stonewater community on 366 acres in Northville, a suburb of Detroit.
在上海距离黄浦江畔不远的地方，有一座外表光鲜的高层建筑，威翰地产(Windham Realty)公司就藏身于此。其建筑外墙上展示着一个密歇根州地产项目的广告：面积366英亩的石水社区(Stonewater)，地点在底特律郊区诺斯维尔。
“The most magnificent waterfront community and the most grand eco-redevelopment project in the U.S.,” the poster reads, highlighting six artificial lakes and 424 luxury villas.
“美国风景最美的滨水社区，规模最大的生态再开发项目，”广告牌上如此写道。它格外突显了该社区拥有的六座人工湖和424栋豪华别墅。
Other posters of properties line the office space. Chic townhouses in San Diego. A golf course community in Fort Myers, Fla. Spacious homes in a Los Angeles development.
公司的办公室区域还张贴着其他地产项目的广告，有位于圣迭戈的时尚联排别墅，位于佛罗里达州迈尔斯堡的配有高尔夫球场的高端社区，以及一个有着宽敞大宅的洛杉矶地产项目。
Eager to tap the new market of buyers, the American real estate firm has established two offices in China, first in Shanghai in 2007 and then last year in Beijing. It has attracted clients with events like traditional American Thanksgiving dinners and real estate showcases where Chinese film stars appear. 
这家美国地产公司急于吸引新兴市场的买家，在中国设立了两个办事处，一个是2007年建立的上海办事处，另一个则是去年建立的北京办事处。通过举办美国传统感恩节晚宴之类的活动，加上在中国电影明星出现的地方做房产项目展示，它吸引了一些客户。
“The market is definitely larger and broader than when we started,” said Steven M. Lawson, the chief executive of Windham China. “They’re very different than the people we were working with in 2007. If we want to cut right to it, they’re less wealthy, a lot younger and a lot better educated from an international point of view.”
“跟我们刚来的时候比，这个市场的规模的确变得更大，范围也更加广泛，”威翰中国首席执行官史蒂文·M·劳森(Steven M. Lawson)说。“比起我们2007年时候接触的那些人，现在的客户也大不相同。比较直接地讲，他们没那么富裕，要年轻许多，而且受教育程度也高得多，具有国际视角。”
The company is among the many hoping to capture the wealth pouring out of China.
像威翰一样希望从中国财富外涌的浪潮中获利的企业，还有很多。
Chinese buyers spent $28.6 billion on American homes in the year ended March 2015, more than double their purchases two years before, according to the Realtors association. Chinese purchases in overseas commercial real estate jumped 49 percent last year, Jones Lang LaSalle, a big real estate brokerage firm, has estimated.
据全美国房地产经纪人协会统计，在截至2015年3月的一年时间里，中国买家花费了286亿美元在美国置业，是两年前的年成交额的两倍还要多。据大型房地产经纪公司仲量联行(Jones Lang LaSalle)估计，中国在海外购置商业地产的成交额去年增加了49%。
The real estate deals follow a broader exodus of money from China to countries and companies around the world. An estimated $590 billion moved out of China in the 12 months through June, according to Fitch Ratings. And the amount of outflows most likely set a record in the third quarter, although detailed data will not be available until next month. In the past, they tended to stay under $200 billion a year.
这类房地产交易量的增加，与一股更大的资金外流潮相关，这些资金从中国流向全球各个国家和企业。据评级公司惠誉(Fitch Ratings)统计，截至今年6月底的一年时间里，流出中国的资金大约有5900亿美金。资金外流的金额在第三季度极有可能也创下了纪录，不过详细的数据要到下个月才会公布。以往，中国一年的外流资金一般都在2000亿美金之下。
The swell of funds from China represents the confluence of several big trends.
外流资金激增是好几个大趋势综合作用的结果。
Over the last six years, the Chinese government has kept the country awash with cash to stimulate the economy, which means a lot of extra money available to slosh abroad. The Chinese government has also made it easier for individuals to move large sums out of the country, as part of a broader liberalization of the nation’s heavily regulated financial system.
在过去六年里，中国政府为刺激经济持续投资，使得国内资金泛滥，这意味着有不少多余的资金可以流向海外。同时，个人向海外转移巨额资金变得更加容易，这是中国政府为放松严格管制的金融制度所做的一种努力。
The government is loosening the rules for corporations, too. Beijing now allows insurance companies to invest as much as 15 percent of their assets overseas, helping drive a surge in commercial purchases.
在对企业管制上，中国政府也有所松动。北京现在允许保险公司将其15%的资产用来进行海外投资，推动商业收购出现大幅上涨。
Chinese companies have been buying stakes in American trophy properties like the General Motors Building and Waldorf Astoria in New York. The situation is drawing comparisons to the 1980s, when Japanese companies invested heavily in American commercial real estate at premium prices.
中国企业正在购买通用汽车大楼(General Motors Building)和华尔道夫-阿斯托里亚酒店(Waldorf Astoria)等标志性美国地产项目的部分所有权。这种情况让人想起1980年代日本企业以溢价大幅投资美国商业地产的情形。
But the eye-popping deals now may have only just begun. By the end of last year, Chinese insurers had only 1.44 percent of their money overseas.
但这类让人瞠目结舌的交易，现在不过是刚刚开始。截止去年底，中国的保险公司投向海外的资金只占总资产的1.44%。
“The Chinese are deliberate; there will clearly be large capital flows coming to the West,” said Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of Blackstone, the largest private landlord in the United States. “That will increase in frequency until the Chinese government decides it shouldn’t happen anymore — they’ve opened the spigot.”
“中国人习惯于深思熟虑，未来肯定还会有大量资金流向西方，”美国最大的私营资产管理公司黑石集团(Blackstone)首席执行官苏世民(Stephen A. Schwarzman)说。“这类投资会越来越多，直到中国政府喊停——他们已经拧开了水龙头。”
Companies are racing to develop services for Chinese customers. This year Zillow, the real estate search website, began publishing its database of American homes in Mandarin on a Chinese real estate site, Leju.com. American realtors are advertising in local Chinese newspapers.
各大企业正在争相开发针对中国客户的服务项目。今年，房地产搜索网站Zillow开始在中国网站“乐居购房网”(Leju.com)上以中文发布其美国房源信息。美国房地产公司也开始在中国本地报纸上做广告宣传。
On the front lines are brokers in the Dallas suburbs like Roddy de la Garza who arrives at homes with a video camera and a compass. The camera is for sharing video of house tours with his clients who live in China; the compass is to make sure the homes have a north-south alignment, to ensure proper energy flow in accordance with Chinese principles of feng shui.
而战斗在第一线的，是如罗迪·德-拉·加尔萨(Roddy de la Garza)一样的达拉斯郊区房产经纪人，他进门的时候会携带一个摄像机和一个指南针。摄像机是为了让远在中国的客户能够观看房子的情况，指南针是为了确定这些住宅的南北朝向，以确保它们符合中国的风水原则，让能量可以合理地流动。
“I’ve learned these things,” said Mr. de la Garza, who works for the realty firm Redfin, “so they trust me.”
“我学了这些东西，”供职于Redfin房地产公司的德-拉·加尔萨说，“所以他们信任我。”
A Boom in the Suburbs
繁荣的郊区
Last summer, Scott Hogg, a Dallas-based real estate agent, helped a client bid on a home near the Plano-Frisco line for about $220,000.
去年夏天，达拉斯房产中介斯科特·霍格(Scott Hogg)曾帮一名客户竞拍位于普莱诺-弗里斯科(Plano-Frisco)沿线的一座住宅，出价22万美金。
The bid from his client, who needed a mortgage, was rejected. The home went to a Chinese buyer who paid cash.
他的客户被卖家拒绝了，因为他需要办抵押贷款。这座房子最后被一名支付现金的中国买家拿下。
“We lost out,” Mr. Hogg said. “It’s just this market. It’s insane.”
“我们没有拍到，”霍格说。“市场现在就是这样，太疯狂了。”
For typical American home buyers who require mortgages, the influx of Chinese money makes it even more challenging in markets facing low inventory and rising prices. A majority of home purchases by Chinese buyers — 69 percent — are entirely cash, according to the Realtors association.
对于需要办理抵押贷款的典型美国购房者而言，中国资金流入，使得本就房少价升的购房市场，竞争更加激烈。据美国房地产经纪人协会统计，大多数中国买家（69%）的购房交易完全以现金支付。
Such bids often rise to the top for sellers who can then close on a deal in little more than a weekend. Even in Silicon Valley, a market awash in millionaires, Chinese buyers — if they pay cash — can edge out tech entrepreneurs whose wealth is tied up in stock options.
这类竞拍的价格往往可以飙升到卖家心目中的最高价位，而且他们只需要两三天就可以完成一笔交易。就算是在百万富翁云集的硅谷，能以现金交易的中国买家也会让财富还是期权不能变现的科技创业者相形见拙。
“There are even bidding wars between cash buyers now,” said Sam Van Horebeek, a director at East-West Property Advisors, a China-based firm that connects Chinese buyers with American real estate agents.
“就连同样以现金交易的买家，也要争相抬价，”东西方置业顾问有限公司(East-West Property Advisors)董事萨姆·凡·霍比克(Sam Van Horebeek)说，这家总部位于中国的公司主要为中国买家和美国房产中介建立联系。
Outside the United States, the Chinese demand has been so great that some locales are trying to temper it.
在美国以外的国家和地区，中国的投资需求如此之大，以至一些地方正试图为这股热潮降温。
Hong Kong and Singapore have each imposed 15 percent taxes on nonresident buyers of residential real estate. In Australia, the state government of Victoria, which includes Melbourne, introduced a 3 percent tax on overseas buyers.
在香港和新加坡，非本地居民购房都要缴纳15%的印花税。墨尔本所在的澳大利亚维多利亚州，也向海外买家收取3%的印花税。
Still, some places are welcoming the economic activity. City coffers benefit from stronger property tax revenue. Many overseas arrivals are relatively wealthy, spending on new cars and furniture, as well as everyday shopping and dining.
不过有些地方对这类经济活动表示欢迎。地方政府收入可以因房地产税收收入走高而变得更加充裕。很多从海外来置业的人士相对富裕，他们会花钱购买新车和新家具，还会有不少日常购物和餐饮消费。
The interest from Chinese buyers is reshaping demographics in Texas. As the volume of Asian purchases grow, the number of Mexican buyers, historically the largest overseas category, is leveling off.
中国买家的这一兴趣正在改变德克萨斯州的人口分布。随着来自亚洲的置业人口增加，原先一直占比最大的外来人口——墨西哥买家的比例正被拉平。
In fast-growing Plano, a northern suburb, the number of people born in mainland China swelled to nearly 6,000 in 2010, from 3,600 in 2000 — and the group has since expanded. The area is such a popular destination that this spring American Airlines began operating a direct flight to Beijing, the airline’s second nonstop from Dallas to a mainland Chinese city, after Shanghai.
达拉斯以北的郊区普莱诺发展迅速，出生于中国大陆的人口也从2000年的3600人激增至2010年的近6000人，而且在继续扩大。这一地区实在是太受欢迎，以致于美国航空(American Airlines)今春开始运营来往北京的直飞航班。这是美国航空第二条从达拉斯出发前往中国大陆城市的直达航线，第一条的目的地是上海。
In Corinth, a town of just 20,000, the development on the old ranch site is expected to bring hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in property taxes and fees. The average price of the new homes is $2 million.
科林斯的人口仅为2万。在牧场旧址上的那个开发项目预计将会给当地带来每年数十万美元的房产税费收入。这些新建房屋的平均售价为200万美元。
The City Council unanimously approved the development in Corinth, where a Chicken Express and an AutoZone abut a highway along the south side of town. Mr. Zhang’s company is planning a strip of luxury stores, including high-end restaurants, a spa and a wine shop that will sell bottles from a vineyard that the developer started just across the Oklahoma border.
科林斯的这一建设项目得到了市政委员会的一致通过。小城的南缘有一条公路，路旁有一家Chicken Express餐厅和一家AutoZone汽车零部件商店。张龙的公司规划了一条奢侈品购物区，包括多家高档餐厅、一所休闲健身中心，还有一家葡萄酒店。公司在刚过州界的俄克拉何马州启动了一座葡萄园，出产的酒就打算在这家店里出售。
“This will be a positive cash flow,” said Rick Chaffin, Corinth’s city manager. “I’d say it would be significant.”
“这会带来积极的现金流，”科林斯市的城市经理里克·查芬(Rick Chaffin)说。“我觉得数目会很大。”
In the Dallas area, the current Chinese boom traces its roots to Taiwanese immigration in the 1980s.
目前在达拉斯地区出现的华人热可以追溯到1980年代的台湾移民。
Back then, Texas Instruments was starting to make headway in the semiconductor business. The company had a strong presence first in Taiwan and later in mainland China, recruiting there for its operations.
当时，德州仪器(Texas Instruments)公司开始在半导体行业取得进展。该公司首先是在台湾，后来在中国大陆取得不错的发展，在当地招募了工作人员。
As Texas Instruments grew and the technology boom in America took off, students from China began arriving to study engineering in hopes of getting a job at the home office. The company hosted English classes for its new employees and cultural events to help them feel at home.
随着德州仪器的发展和美国科技产业走向繁荣，中国学生纷纷前往德州学习工程，希望能在其总部谋得职位。该公司为新员工提供英语培训并举办文化活动，好让他们感觉自在。
Soon a small strip of Chinese restaurants and an Asian market sprouted in Richardson, along with a community center offering a library of Chinese books, tai chi classes and country line dancing. In 2001, Huawei, a major Chinese telecom company, opened its American headquarters in Plano.
不久，理查森出现一片中国餐馆和亚洲市场，还有一个可以借阅中文书、学习太极拳、跳乡村集体舞的社区活动中心。2001年，中国大型电信企业华为在普莱诺建立了它的美国总部。
With their own economy growing quickly, the Chinese arrivals were armed with more money and wanted newer, more expensive homes than Richardson’s usual stock of ranch-style homes built in the 1950s. They found them nearby in towns including Plano and Frisco, part of the supercharged suburban sprawl. Chinese families have clustered in the miles upon miles of new brick houses in subdivisions fortified by brick walls, with names like Whiffletree, Spring Ridge and Hunters Glen North.
随着中国经济快速增长，来到这里的中国人往往携带更多资金，希望住更新更贵的房子，而不是理查森常见的建于1950年代的牧场风格住宅。他们在附近城镇找到了自己想要的住宅，其中包括普莱诺和弗里斯科，它们属于过度扩张的郊区地带。中国人的居所绵延数英里，在名为车马梁(Whiffletree)、春岭(Spring Ridge)、猎人谷北(Hunters Glen North)的住宅小区内聚居起来，里面分布着崭新的砖墙住宅，还有砖墙环绕。
“Chinese people like newer areas,” said Charlie Yue, who moved from Beijing to the Dallas area in the late 1990s as a student. He bought a new house in Frisco five years ago and now runs a real estate investment firm, snapping up homes that linger on the market.
“中国人喜欢较新的区域，”1990年代后期以学生身份从北京移居达拉斯地区的查理·岳(Charlie Yue)说。他五年前在弗里斯科买了座新房，现在经营着一家房地产投资公司，抢购市面尚存的住宅。
“I’ve traveled to Los Angeles and San Francisco, and I feel like I’ve gone back to China. Texas is wide open, with so much space, which I really love,” said Mr. Yue, who is also vice president of the Association of Chinese Professionals in Richardson. “If you consider how expensive housing is in Beijing or Shanghai, this is a bargain.”
“我去过洛杉矶和旧金山，感觉好像回到了中国。德州空间大，非常开阔，我很喜欢这里，”查理·岳说，他还是位于理查森的中华专业人士协会(Association of Chinese Professionals)的副主席。“如果跟北京或上海的高房价相比，这里的房子很划算。”
School Pride
学校兴盛
Steve Robinette, an administrator at Missouri State University, often plays tour guide to newly arriving Chinese students. The university, which operates a campus in China, has about 900 Chinese students at its main campus in Springfield.
密苏里州立大学行政人员史蒂夫·罗比内特(Steve Robinette)经常给新来的中国学生当导游。这个大学在中国也建有一个分校，它位于斯普林菲尔德的主校区有大约900名中国学生。
Not long ago, one student’s mother came to him seeking help with a major purchase. He assumed she wanted a recommendation for a car dealer, but she was looking for a real estate agent.
不久前，一名学生的母亲来就一项大宗消费向他寻求帮助。他以为她想让他推荐一个汽车经销商，但她要找的是房地产经纪。
“When I take them around to the better areas of Springfield, if there’s a For Sale sign they’ll jump out and grab a flier,” said Mr. Robinette, the university’s associate vice president for international programs.
“我带他们参观斯普林菲尔德条件较好的区域，要是碰到一座房子有‘出售’的标志，他们就会跑过去拿一张传单，”罗比内特说。他是负责该校国际项目的助理副校长。
Education plays an outsize role in Chinese families’ decisions to buy American real estate.
教育是中国家庭买房子时考虑的一个特别重要的因素。
While college enrollment in China is soaring, top schools have limited space. Almost all of the expansion is taking place at poorly regarded universities and polytechnics. Students unable to win admission to prestigious universities frequently apply to American schools if their families can afford it.
尽管中国大学录取人数急剧飙升，但顶级学校入学名额依然有限。扩招名额几乎都集中在口碑并不好的大学或职业院校。如果家庭能够负担得起，无法进入知名大学的学生，往往会申请美国的学校。
At the university level, the Chinese now make up 31 percent of all international students in the United States, according to the Institute of International Education. While New York, Los Angeles and Boston are popular destinations for Chinese students, more are attending universities in the Midwest, with its giant institutions like Ohio State and Michigan State.
从大学的层面看，国际教育协会(Institute of International Education)的数据显示，中国人目前占美国国际学生总数的31%。尽管纽约、洛杉矶和波士顿是中国留学生比较喜欢去的地方，但越来越多的人正在前往中西部地区上大学，那里有俄亥俄州立大学和密歇根州立大学等大型院校。
Their parents often buy homes in college towns. St. Louis real estate listings — homes that average nearly $800,000 — are attracting mainland buyers on the Chinese real estate website Juwai.com. The influx of Chinese students is most likely the reason, said Simon Henry, the company’s co-chief executive.
他们的父母往往会在大学所在城镇购房。在中国房地产网站“居外网”(Juwai.com)上，密苏里州圣路易斯的房产信息——房屋均价约为80万美元——吸引了不少中国内地买家的关注。该公司联合首席执行官西蒙·亨利(Simon Henry)表示，原因很可能是中国学生的涌入。
“If you look at the student populations of any major or nonmajor university,” Mr. Henry said, “you’ll get a really good indication of what property prices are going to do.”
“你看一下任何一所著名或非著名大学的学生构成，”亨利说。“就能很好地判断那里的房价会怎样波动。”
The push starts young. About 23,500 Chinese citizens were enrolled in American high schools in 2013, the most recent year for which figures were available.
这种推动力从比较早的阶段就开始了。2013年，有2.35万名中国公民在美国的高中注册入学，这是有数据的距今最近的年份。
Echo Zha, from Beijing, is renting an apartment in Naperville, Ill., so her 12-year-old daughter can attend school there. She also spent about $200,000 on a small, one-bedroom apartment in Chicago where she hopes to collect enough rental income to also buy a home in Naperville.
来自北京的艾柯·查(Echo Zha)在伊利诺伊州的内珀维尔市租了一套公寓，好让12岁的女儿在那里上学。她还花了大概20万美元在芝加哥购买了一套一居室小公寓，她希望这套公寓的租金收入可以让她在内珀维尔也买到一座住宅。
“In the schools in Beijing, students with high-powered parents or rich parents are given special treatment by the teachers,” Ms. Zha said. “I want my daughter to be in a more fair environment and to grow up with more character and values.”
“在北京的学校里，父母有权有钱的学生会被老师特别照顾，”查女士说。“我希望女儿生活在更公平的环境里，长大以后能有更多的个性和更多元的价值观。”
Ann Irvine, the principal of Harrington Elementary in Plano, said several Chinese families whose children attended her school had bought two homes simultaneously.
普莱诺哈灵顿小学(Harrington Elementary)的校长安妮·欧文(Ann Irvine)表示，这个学校有好几个中国学生家里都同时买了两座房子。
One, she explained, was for attending Harrington, which has a bilingual Mandarin-English preschool, and the other to ensure spots later for their children at a high school in a different area.
她解释说，一座是为了方便让子女上哈灵顿小学，这里有中英双语学前班，另一座是为确保他们将来能上位于另一个地区的一所中学。
“We’re not talking mansions,” Ms. Irvine said. “We’re talking nice homes with research done thoroughly and the best price point attained.”
“他们买的不是豪宅，”欧文说。“而是经过深入研究后选择的优质房屋，而且价格卡得刚刚好。”
An Eye for Investment
关注投资
For Mr. Zhang, the old ranch in Corinth was somewhat of an impulse buy.
对张龙来说，柯林斯的那座旧牧场，可以说是冲动购买。
A lawyer by training, Mr. Zhang, 42, first came to know Texas during airport layovers while traveling between the coasts for his work, which spans technology, mining, wealth management and other industries. A Chinese friend in Dallas started talking about a patch of undeveloped land in Corinth.
42岁的张龙有律师的专业背景，他从事的业务涵盖科技、矿业、健康管理和其他产业。他因公务要在美国东西海岸之间出差，在中途转机时，他了解了德克萨斯州。一位在达拉斯的中国友人告诉他，在柯林斯有块未开发的土地。
Two years ago, Mr. Zhang paid $6.8 million in cash for Canyon Lake Ranch, his first foray into American real estate. He renamed the lake after himself; it’s now officially Long Lake.
两年前，张龙用680万美元现金买下了峡谷湖牧场，这是他在美国房地产的第一笔投资。他将湖改以自己的名字为名，现在湖的名字是龙湖(Long Lake)。
“I chose Dallas because the unique culture of the city was evident on my first visit and has since impressed me with every return visit,” Mr. Zhang said in a statement. “Compared to other U.S. metropolitan areas, Dallas presents numerous prospects for all walks of life, drawing people from across the country and globally.”
“我选了达拉斯，因为在我第一次造访的时候，这座城市显现出独特的文化，我每次回到这里都觉得非常惊喜，”张龙在一份声明中说。“跟美国其他大都会比起来，达拉斯为各行各业呈现了异彩纷呈的前景，吸引着全美国和全球的人。”
Vivian Tsou, chief operating officer and president of Lelege USA, Mr. Zhang’s development company, put it bluntly: “The bang for your buck is higher here.”
薇薇安‧邹（Vivian Tsou，音）是力利记美国公司(Lelege USA)的首席运营官兼总裁。她直白地说：“这里的投资回报率比较高。”
Overseas real estate speculation by Chinese investors started to rise after the recession in America began to recede in 2009. The two markets have been out of sync, creating opportunities. American home prices have been in a recovery phase, while the Chinese boom has been fading.
2009年，美国经济衰退的状况开始好转之后，中国投资者进行的海外房地产投机活动开始增多。中美两个市场不同步，因此创造出投资机会。当时美国房价处在恢复阶段，而中国房地产市场的繁荣正在褪去。
Investments in the United States provide another advantage: a pathway to a green card.
在美国进行投资还有另一项好处：可以拿绿卡。
Chinese investors have been particularly aggressive at using a federal visa program called EB-5 that allows overseas citizens to put $500,000 to $1 million into a project that will create at least 10 jobs. Investors can get a green card in about two years. So far this year, 86 percent of the EB-5 visas issued worldwide have gone to Chinese.
中国投资者尤其热衷利用名为EB–5的联邦签证计划。依据该计划，海外公民给一个至少会创造10个工作岗位的美国项目投资50到100万美元，就可以在大约两年内获得美国绿卡。截至目前，美国今年86%的EB–5签证都发给了中国人。
While the homes in the development at Long Lake are also being marketed locally, mainland buyers are eligible for this program. “These high-caliber homes will bring high-caliber residents,” said Ms. Tsou of Lelege.
尽管龙湖的房地产项目也在当地做市场推广，但中国内地人才是该项目的合适买家。“这些高品质住宅将会引来高素质居民，”力利记的邹女士说。
Ida Hung, a real estate agent and feng shui specialist in the Dallas office of the Virginia Cook agency, which now has the exclusive listing for the Long Lake development, peddles the homes to contacts in the area’s Chinese community and beyond. On a recent afternoon, she stopped at Tam’s, a Chinese buffet in Richardson.
弗吉尼亚·库克(Virginia Cook)房地产经纪公司达拉斯办公室的经纪人兼风水专家艾达·洪(Ida Hung)，目前掌握着龙湖地产项目的独家房产信息，她会前往该区域的中国社区及其他社区宣传这些房产信息。最近的一个下午，她来到位于理查森的一家中式快餐店谭家餐厅。
In the last decade or so, the restaurant’s owner, Wing Tam, has bought seven condos and houses that ranged in price from $20,000 to $500,000 — one for his sister, one for an employee in his kitchen, one for his wife, one because it was a good price, one for investment purposes and so on. He paid cash for them all, except for his own Dallas home, which he bought in 2008 with a mortgage he has since paid off.
在过去大约10年时间里，这家餐厅的老板谭温（音）先后买了7套共管公寓和住宅，它们的价格介于2万到50万美元之间，其中一套买给他的姐妹，一套给他餐厅的员工，一套给他妻子，还有一套是因为价格比较划算，另一个是为投资。除了他自己位于达拉斯的住宅，这些房子都是以现金交易。他在2008年以按揭买下那座自住住宅，之后付清了贷款。
During a busy lunch hour, he pored over the materials for the Corinth development but decided the location was a bit too remote. He offered to put Ms. Hung in touch with Chinese friends who live in Arkansas.
在繁忙的午餐时段，他仔细研究了位于科林斯的这个地产项目，但最终还是觉得位置有点远。他主动提出，要帮洪女士联系上他住在阿肯色州的朋友。
“They are very rich. They don’t know how to spend their money,” said Mr. Tam, tucking one of the brochures under his arm. “They need to invest.”
“他们很有钱，不知道该往哪里花，”谭温一边说一边把一个宣传册压到胳膊下面。“他们需要投资。”