WASHINGTON — A month after the execution of Jang Song-thaek, widely viewed as North Korea’s second-most-powerful leader, China remains stymied in relations with its reclusive, defiant neighbor. This is not a new story. Though few in Beijing are prepared to admit it, China’s policies toward North Korea have long been a conspicuous failure.
华盛顿——张成泽曾被普遍认为是朝鲜的第二号人物，在他被处决一个月后，中国仍然处在尴尬的境地，难以处理跟与世隔绝、目中无人的朝鲜之间的关系。这不是什么新鲜事。很明显，中国的对朝政策长期以来都很失败，虽然北京几乎没有人愿意承认这一点。
China’s official reactions to the North’s internal power struggle have, thus far, been limited largely to formulaic calls for internal stability. But Mr. Jang’s ouster must be deeply disquieting to senior Chinese policy makers, who yet again find themselves on the outside looking in.
对于朝鲜的内部权力斗争，迄今为止，中国的官方反应在很大程度上仅限于呼吁其保持国内稳定这样的套话。但张成泽的下台，必定给中国的高层决策者带来了深深的不安，他们再次发现自己被挡在了外面。
By nearly all indications, leaders in Beijing were blindsided by the latest events. By contrast, South Korean intelligence disclosed Mr. Jang’s fall from power a full five days before its stunning climax at a Politburo meeting on Dec. 8.
几乎所有迹象都表明，这一事件让中国领导层措手不及。相比之下，在此事发展到12月8日朝鲜中央政治局(Politburo)会议这个高潮整整五天之前，韩国情报部门就披露了张成泽倒台的消息。
The Kim dynasty intends to keep China in the dark as fully as it can. Chinese leaders, including President Xi Jinping, voice periodic frustration with North Korea, but none seems able or willing to translate Pyongyang’s ever increasing economic dependence on China into meaningful influence.
金家王朝有意尽量把这件事瞒着中国。包括习近平在内的中国领导人，每隔一段时间就会吐露对朝鲜的失望，但是没有人可以或者愿意把平壤对中国日益严重的经济依赖转变为卓有成效的影响力。
From the earliest years of China’s reforms, under Deng Xiaoping, Beijing has repeatedly sought to coax North Korea toward gradual economic change, normal relations with the outside world and increased attentiveness to Chinese interests. Yet North Korea continues to exhibit its characteristic mix of demands and defiance, including repeated threats aimed at South Korea and accelerated development of nuclear weapons and long-range ballistic missiles opposed by all outside powers, including China. Other than some modest steps toward informal marketization in the North, China’s policy record on Pyongyang over three decades remains unblemished by success.
从中国改革之初邓小平主政时期开始，北京就已经进行过多次尝试，希望说服朝鲜进行逐步的经济改革，与外部世界发展正常关系，并更多地注意中国的利益。然而，朝鲜继续着索取和忤逆并在的一贯作风，比如多次对韩国发出威胁，并加速了核武器和远程弹道导弹的研发，全然不顾中国和其他所有国家的反对。除了让朝鲜采取了一些温和的行动，在北部推动非正式的市场化进程之外，30多年来，中国的对朝政策可谓毫无建树。
Mr. Jang was China’s primary channel into the North. This did not make him Beijing’s man, but he had far more extensive international experience than any other leader in Pyongyang. His control of various business interests in the North and responsibility for special economic zones along the Chinese border enabled him to amass substantial economic power.
中国跟朝鲜领导者之间的接触主要是通过张成泽进行的。他并未因此成为北京的人，但他处理国际事务的经验比平壤任何所有领导人都丰富。张成泽控制了朝鲜的多个商业利益集团，并负责朝鲜在中国边境的经济特区建设，从而聚集了巨大的经济势力。
Beijing probably calculated that Mr. Jang was prepared to open a limited window into the North. The Chinese may also have seen him as a potential advocate for stability — which they had long sought in North Korea but never found.
北京大概是指望张成泽有意打开一扇通向朝鲜的小窗口。他们也许还认为，张成泽有希望成为稳定的倡导者——中国长期寻求这种稳定，但一直都没有成功。
But Mr. Jang had undoubtedly acquired numerous enemies during decades of unforgiving political warfare in Pyongyang. There were mounting suspicions within ruling circles that he was too beholden to Chinese interests. Mr. Jang’s accumulation of wealth and his economic links with China proved his undoing once Kim Jong-un, the third leader of the Kim dynasty, demanded a redistribution of the spoils.
但数十​​年来，张成泽无疑在平壤残酷的政治斗争中树敌无数。在朝鲜的统治集团中，对他太过关照中国利益的怀疑也日益增加。一旦金家王朝的第三任领袖金正恩(Kim Jong-un)要求重新分赃，张成泽积累的财富以及他跟中国之间的经济联系就注定了他的倒台。
North Korean officials linked to Mr. Jang now find themselves under suspicion; reportedly, others have also been purged or executed. Advocates of cooperation with China face greater risks as Mr. Kim consolidates his power and demands unquestioning loyalty from all subordinates. Without reliable allies in North Korea, China must deal with an impetuous and grandiose young leader who pays China very little heed.
跟张成泽有关系的朝鲜官员现在纷纷受到怀疑；据报道，还有其他人遭到了解职或处决。在金正恩巩固权力并要求所有下属都绝对忠诚的过程中，支持跟中国合作的人将面临更大的风险。在朝鲜没有了可靠盟友，中国就必须应付金正恩了，这位鲁莽而浮夸的年轻领袖对中国一向不理不睬。
Mr. Jang’s fall from power is the latest in a long succession of Chinese policy failures in North Korea. Many analysts argue that North Korea is a buffer state for China, used by Beijing to insulate it from American pressure. But the reverse is more the case: China is a buffer state for North Korea, for Beijing continues to be Pyongyang’s primary enabler.
张成泽的下台，是中国对朝政策一长串失败中的最新一次。很多分析人士都认为，对中国而言，朝鲜是一个缓冲国，北京用它来避开美国的压力。但更多的时候，情况恰恰相反：中国成为了朝鲜的一个缓冲国，因为北京仍然是平壤的主要支持者。
Chinese foreign policy currently appears bold and assertive, but on the peninsula China’s stance remains exceedingly risk-averse. The question is why Beijing continues to exhibit such caution, even outright timidity, toward the North.
中国的外交政策目前显得大胆而张扬，但在朝鲜半岛问题上，中国的立场仍然极端不愿意承担风险。现在的问题是：为什么北京会继续对朝鲜表现出这样的谨慎，甚至是彻头彻尾的胆怯。
Some argue that the legacy of the Korean War weighs heavily on the minds of more traditional constituencies within the Chinese Communist Party and army. But deeper, current anxieties also inhibit Beijing. China fears that extreme actions by an unpredictable, heavily armed neighbor with a xenophobic leadership could trigger a larger crisis on the peninsula that would quickly involve China. Lacking realistic options to control North Korean behavior, China prefers instead to avoid doing anything that might alienate Pyongyang.
有些人认为，这是因为朝鲜战争的遗留问题，那场战争对中国共产党和军队中比较传统的势力集团有着非同一般的影响。不过还有一些更深层次的、当前的担忧在束缚北京的手脚。由于朝鲜不按常理出牌，拥有大量武力，领导层又很排外，中国担心朝鲜采取极端行动，在朝鲜半岛引发更大的危机，并很快把中国卷入其中。中国没有现实的方法来控制朝鲜的行为，所以宁愿避免采取任何可能会疏远平壤的举动。
While China insists that it wants normal state-to-state relations with North Korea, it is not prepared to impose conditions on its isolated, troublesome neighbor, much less undertake a larger reassessment of its policies. As a consequence, Mr. Kim sees little reason to follow China’s advice, and he will continue to zealously guard against Chinese influence on the North.
虽然中国坚称想与朝鲜建立正常的邦交关系，但它没有准备好向这个孤立、恼人的邻居提出坚决的条件，更谈不上对政策进行重大的重新评估了。因此，金正恩没有理由听取中国的意见，他还将继续积极地防范中国对朝鲜的影响。
The one exception to China’s passivity toward the North is its promotion of closer ties with Seoul. South Korea’s trade with China now exceeds $250 billion, more than the South’s combined trade with Japan and the United States. (China’s two-way trade with North Korea is worth approximately $6 billion.) South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye, has already been welcomed on a state visit to Beijing; there has been no equivalent welcome for Mr. Kim, and it is not even certain that he seeks one.
中国在朝鲜问题上的被动局面有一个例外，就是它在促进跟汉城之间的关系。韩国跟中国之间的贸易额目前已逾2500亿美元，超过了它跟日本和美国之间的贸易额之和。（中国与朝鲜的双向贸易额约为60亿美元）。韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)已经受北京邀请前往中国进行了一次国事访问，金正恩尚未受到同样的欢迎，甚至都不能确定他是否想要这样的欢迎。
China exhibits ample unease about addressing the larger risks posed by North Korea’s actions and goals. The purge of Mr. Jang serves only to underscore Beijing’s lack of influence in Pyongyang. The United States and South Korea both hope for more from China, but Beijing seems paralyzed in policy indecision.
朝鲜的行动和目标带来了的风险在加大，中国在这个问题的处理上表现得很不安。张成泽被清洗事件，突显了北京对平壤缺乏影响力。美国和韩国双方都期望中国有更大作为，但北京似乎在政策上犹豫不决。
The failures of policy on the Korean Peninsula are not those of China alone, but Beijing’s risk aversion bespeaks a larger absence of will and imagination on China’s part. Without a more candid conversation among Beijing, Seoul and Washington, the latent risk of an acute threat on the peninsula remains uncomfortably high.
不只是中国，其他国家也在朝鲜半岛问题上出现了政策失败，但北京逃避风险的态度显示了中国非常缺少决心和想象力。如果北京、首尔和华盛顿之间不进行更为坦诚的交谈，那么严重威胁朝鲜半岛的潜在风险仍然会保持在令人不安的高水平上。
South Korea and the United States seem fully prepared for serious dialogue with China. Only Beijing seems unable to decide, leaving unaddressed the prospect of a severe crisis that cannot possibly be in China’s interest.
韩国和美国似乎做好了跟中国开展认真对话的充分准备。只是北京似乎还不能下定决心，一场对中国势必不利的严重危机依然有可能发生，却不能未雨绸缪地去做些什么。