Outfitted in a simple, gray zip-up jacket and blue trousers, President Xi Jinping of China made his cartoon debut in the state media on Wednesday.
中国国家主席习近平于周三首次以漫画形象亮相国家媒体，漫画上的习近平身穿简单的灰色拉链夹克和蓝色裤子。
The graphic — titled “Where has Chairman Xi’s time gone?” — was posted on Qianlong.com, a website affiliated with the Beijing municipal government. The Chinese media reported that it was the first time that Mr. Xi had been portrayed in cartoon form by a state-run news outlet.
这则标题为《习主席的时间都去哪儿了？》的图表新闻发布在北京市政府下属的千龙网上。中国媒体报道称，这是政府的新闻机构首次以漫画形象描绘习近平。
The graphic, which was released on Wednesday and contains several illustrations showing Mr. Xi’s travels, describes how he has made a dozen inspection trips within China and visited 14 countries on five continents since assuming the leadership of the government last March.
这条周三发布的新闻用了几幅图片来展示习近平的走访活动，介绍了他自从去年3月份就任国家主席以来，如何在国内视察了十几个地方、以及在五大洲访问了14个国家。
The graphic portrays the Chinese leader as diligent and hard-working. It describes how Mr. Xi is kept busy even during public holidays. In the last segment, a cartoon Mr. Xi is shown holding up a sign that reads: “Undertaking my kind of work means that I basically don’t have any time to myself.”
这款图表新闻把这位中国领袖描绘为勤奋和努力工作的人，比如习近平如何在公休日仍非常繁忙。在最后一幅图中，习近平的漫画形象举着一个牌子，上面写着：“承担我这样的工作，基本上没有自己的时间。”
The Chinese leader said as much in real life during a recent interview in Sochi, Russia. “Where’s my personal time gone? Surely most of it has been occupied by work,” the state news agency, Xinhua, quoted Mr. Xi as saying.
现实生活中，这位中国国家主席在最近访问俄罗斯索契接受采访时也说了同样的话。国家通讯社新华社消息援引习近平的话说，“我个人的时间都去哪儿了？当然是都被工作占去了。”
When the Chinese leader does get a moment to relax, he enjoys reading and sports including martial arts, swimming and soccer, the text accompanying the cartoon says.
图表新闻附带的文字称，当这位中国领导人能有时间放松一下时，他喜欢读书和运动，包括武术、游泳和足球等。
The infographic, which was published the day after Xinhua ran a lengthy article detailing Mr. Xi’s activities, appears to be part of a continuing effort by the government to present a lighter image of the Chinese leadership.
图表新闻发表的一天前，新华社曾发了一个长篇报道，详细描述了习近平的活动。这则图表新闻似乎是中国政府试图把国家领导人以更轻松的形象展示给公众的继续努力。
Chinese officials typically have tight control over how they are portrayed in public.
中国官员一般严格控制他们的形象如何展示给公众。
“You should be cautious and shoot from angles that produce a satisfying photo leaders will approve of,” Li Wenbin, a photographer for a state-run newspaper, told The Economic Observer in August. “Otherwise it may lead to a political incident.”
“摄影记者能准确记住从哪个角度拍这个官员最好看，”化名李文斌的一位国家媒体原摄影记者去年8月曾对《经济观察报》这样说，“稍不留神就可能出政治事故。”
The infographic is not the first time the government has allowed the publication of a cartoon representation of Mr. Xi. In October, the popular Chinese video hosting service Youku posted a Chinese- and English-language animated video depicting Mr. Xi’s ascent to power. The creator of the clip was never revealed, but, given that it was allowed to remain accessible, it most likely came from official sources. So far, the Chinese-language version of the video has been watched more than 2.8 million times.
这则图表新闻并不是政府首次允许发表习近平的卡通形象。去年10月份，中国热门视频网站优酷网上发了一个中英文的动画片段，描绘了习近平掌权的过程。虽然这段视频的制作者不得而知，但视频一直没有被删掉，表明它很可能来自官方。到目前为止，这段视频的中文版已被观看过280万次。
Since taking office, Mr. Xi has striven to be seen as a leader in touch with the Chinese populace. He is also widely regarded as more personable and charismatic than his predecessor, Hu Jintao.
习近平自上台以来一直致力于塑造亲民的领导人形象。人们普遍认为他比前任胡锦涛更有风度和魅力。