BEIJING — Amid the whine of high-performance jet engines at the start of an air show in Zhuhai, the Chinese government is hoping to generate a different sort of buzz: admiration, and perhaps purchases, of its shadowy J-31 stealth fighter, which is expected to make its first public appearance.
北京——伴随着高性能飞机发动机的轰鸣，在珠海举办的航空博览会开幕了。中国政府期待借这次航展，为该国神秘的歼-31隐形战机赢得赞誉，甚或订单。根据预期，歼-31将在此次航展上公开亮相。
For almost 20 years, the event, Airshow China, has been a showcase for the country's homegrown hardware, and a marketplace for those interested in selling to the world's most populous country. As the country tries to climb into the high-end arms market, it has been eager to display fighters, missiles and drones that it hopes will demonstrate how China can compete on the global stage.
近20年来，中国国际航空航天博览会(Airshow China)一直是中国展示国产装备的一个舞台，也是有意向这个人口最多的国家出售产品的厂商趋之若鹜的市场。随着中国努力在高端武器市场上提升地位，它也在积极地展示战斗机、导弹和无人机，希望以此显示中国可以在国际舞台上开展竞争。
By exhibiting a stealth aircraft at the show, China wants to show just how far its arms industry has come, experts say. The U.S. is the only country with operational stealth planes, and Lockheed Martin the only company to have successfully exported one, the F-35.
通过在航展上展示一架隐形飞机，专家表示，中国是想显示该国防务产业取得了多大的进步。世界上只有美国拥有已服役的隐形飞机，洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockheed Martin)是唯一曾出口过隐形飞机的企业，其出口的机型是F-35。
The air show, which starts Tuesday, is widely expected to be “a coming-out party for the J-31,” said John Stillion, senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, an independent research institute in Washington.
华盛顿独立研究机构战略与预算评估中心(Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments)的高级研究员约翰·斯蒂林(John Stillion)表示，周二开始的这次航展，被广泛认为是“歼-31的亮相派对”。
“The more ambitious the display, probably the closer it is to being ready for prime time. If they fly it, that's a big deal,” he said. “One of the ways countries try to increase demand for their combat aircraft is displaying them, doing cool stuff at air shows; it's an opportunity to show off.”
“这次展示的声势越大，距离这架飞机唱主角的时间就越近。如果的确让它飞起来，那可是重要事件，”他说。“各国努力扩大对本国作战飞机需求的一个方法就是进行展示，在航展上做点很酷的动作。这是一个炫耀的机会。”
After scrutinizing online videos and squinting at oblique references in Chinese state news media, foreign experts say there are many open questions regarding the J-31's development: how soon the plane will be in service, whether it will use engines that are domestically made or imported from Russia, whether its capabilities will be a match for Lockheed Martin's jets, and whether it will be substantially cheaper than the competition.
外国专家仔细地观察网上的视频，也从中国官方媒体的报道中寻找蛛丝马迹。这些专家表示，歼-31的研发还有很多问题有待解答：这款飞机什么时候可以服役、其发动机是国产的还是俄罗斯进口的、其性能是否比得上洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockhead Martin)的飞机、价格能否明显低于竞品。
It is also unclear whether the introduction of the J-31 at the show will significantly bolster China's clout in the global arms trade. It is not even certain that the jet, developed by the state-owned Shenyang Aircraft Corp., is meant for export. Another stealth fighter, the J-20, is being developed by the Chengdu Aircraft Industry Group.
此外，也不清楚在航展上推出歼-31，是否能明显提升中国在全球武器贸易中的实力。甚至都不确定由国有的沈阳飞机工业集团研发的歼-31，是否会用于出口。成都飞机工业集团正在研发另一款隐形战机歼-20。
“People think the J-20 won the contest,” said Richard A. Bitzinger, senior fellow and coordinator of the Military Transformations Program at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore.
新加坡拉惹勒南国际研究院(S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies)军事转型项目高级研究员和协调人理查德·A·毕辛格(Richard A. Bitzinger)表示，“人们都认为歼-20已经赢得了竞赛。”
Some shortcomings may be evident in the plane's appearance, he said. Unlike the F-35, the J-31 has two engines.
从这款飞机的外观上，一些缺陷很明显就能看出来，他说。不像F-35，歼-31有两个发动机。
“Traditionally the Chinese have to stick in extra engines because their engines aren't powerful enough — that's a warning signal right there,” he said.
“传统上，中国人需要加装发动机，因为他们的发动机不够强劲——这就是一种警示的信号了，”他说。
Lockheed Martin's F-22, the world's only operational stealth fighter, also has two engines, but they are powerful enough to propel the plane faster than the speed of sound without using the fuel-intensive afterburner.
洛克希德·马丁公司的F-22是全世界仅有一款使用中的隐形战斗机，它也有两个发动机。不过其发动机足够强劲，不使用十分耗油的后燃器，就可以让飞机加速到超音速。
Robert M. Farley, an assistant professor at the University of Kentucky's Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce, said engine designs had hindered Chinese aerospace ambitions. The Xian Aircraft Industry Y-20, a domestically produced military transport that will also be shown at Zhuhai, has been developed with engines made by the Russian company Aviadvigatel that are far less efficient than their Western counterparts, typically made by General Electric, Pratt & Whitney or Rolls-Royce.
肯塔基大学帕特森外交与国际商务学院(Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce)助理教授罗伯特·M·法利(Robert M. Farley)表示，发动机设计制约了中国在航空领域的雄心。中国生产的军用运输机，西安飞机工业集团的运-20，也将在珠海航展上展示。运-20的研发采用了俄罗斯Aviadvigatel公司制造的发动机，其效率远远低于西方企业制造的发动机。这些发动机通常来自通用电气(General Electric)、普惠公司(Pratt & Whitney)、罗尔斯·罗伊斯(Rolls-Royce)。
“The problem with Chinese engines is that they've been remarkably unreliable,” Farley said. “Engines require extremely tight tolerances in construction; even small errors can lead to the engine burning out.”
“中国发动机的问题是，一直以来相当不可靠，”法利说。“发动机在制造时，容许的误差范围极小，即使是很小的偏差，都可能造成发动机损毁。”
Quality control, in general, could undermine the J-31's biggest apparent selling point: its ability to evade radar.
总体而言，质量控制也可能影响歼-31目前看来最大的卖点：躲避雷达的能力。
“The potential problem with Chinese- and Russian-construction stealth fighters is that if there's a bolt out of place, it shows up on a radar signature,” Farley said. “Russian and Chinese construction is typically much looser.”
“中国和俄罗斯制造的隐形战斗机所具有的潜在问题是，一旦有一个螺丝放错了位置，就会在雷达上显示出痕迹来，”法利说。“俄罗斯和中国的制造过程，往往松懈得多。”
“Will Chinese fighters be as `stealthy' as Western fighters? We won't know that for another five or 10 years,” he said.
他说：“中国的战斗机能像西方战斗机一样‘隐形’吗？还要再等五年或十年才知道。”
If China's fighters perform as advertised, Farley said, the J-31 will attract buyers — but only if it is marketed well below the F-35's price tag, which ranges from about $150 million to more than $300 million depending on the model.
法利说，如果中国战斗机的表现像宣传的那样，那么歼-31就能吸引来买家——但也只有其售价远低于F-35才行，后者视乎型号差别，价格从1.5亿美元（约合9亿元人民币）到3亿美元不等。
“My guess is that somewhere around $75 million, or at least less than $100 million, is the ballpark cost to make it attractive,” Farley said. “Pakistan, of course, would be a huge buyer. Several Latin American countries are recapitalizing their air forces. In the Middle East, there's a lot of dissatisfaction with the U.S. and U.S. equipment. A cheaper Chinese stealth fighter could do well.”
“我的猜测是，7500万美元左右，或者至少1亿美元以下的价格区间会让它颇有吸引力，”法利说。“当然，巴基斯坦可能是大买家。几个拉美国家也正在更新各自的空军。中东存在着对美国，以及美国设备的大量不满。更便宜的中国隐形战斗机可能会卖得不错。”
By last year, China had overtaken France as the world's fourth-largest exporter of arms, according to Sipri data; Germany is No. 3. Although China has long sold small arms and ammunition, increased manufacturing sophistication means that it is now also trying to export air-defense missile systems, anti-tank weaponry, helicopters and warships.
来自Sipri的数据显示，到去年，中国已取代法国，成为全世界第四大武器出口国；德国名列第三。尽管长期以来，中国出售的一直是小型武器和弹药，但制造精密程度的提高意味着，中国现在也在尝试出口防空导弹系统、反坦克武器、直升机和军舰。
In just five years, the percentage of the global arms trade sourced from China has jumped to 6 percent from 2 percent, even as total international arms sales have risen 14 percent. From 2009 to 2013, China's top arms customers were Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar. Meanwhile, China's arms imports have shrunk as domestic factories fill more orders, according to Sipri.
在短短五年时间里，来自中国的武器在全球武器贸易中的比例就从2%增加到了6%。同一时期，国际武器销量增加了14%。从2009年到2013年，购买中国武器的国家中，排名最靠前的是巴基斯坦、孟加拉国和缅甸。与此同时，Sipri的数据显示，随着国内工厂获得更多订单，中国武器进口规模有所减小。
The country's aviation industry is also trying to break into commercial manufacturing; China's first domestically produced jet airliner, the C919, is in the final stages of development, as is the ARJ21, a regional jet.
中国航空业也在尝试进军商业制造领域；中国首款国产喷气式客机C919，以及支线喷气式客机ARJ21，均处在研发的最后阶段。
The C919 is “meant to compete with Airbus and Boeing,” said Ray Jaworowski, senior aerospace analyst at Forecast International.
预测国际(Forecast International)关注航空航天业的高级分析师雷·贾沃罗夫斯基(Ray Jaworowski)称，C919是“为了与空客(Airbus)和波音(Boeing)竞争”。