LING’AN, China — Nestled in verdant hills amid bamboo forests and feathery grass meadows, the Sun Commune is a thriving eco-farm about 60 miles from the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou. Its centerpiece is a pig barn.
中国临安——太阳公社位于林木葱茏的小山之间，山上竹林青翠，脚下绿草轻柔。它是一个兴旺的生态农场，距离中国东部城市杭州约60英里。公社的中心是一个猪圈。
The home for 30 or so black hogs is no ordinary outbuilding. An open-air, bamboo-lined structure, it has pyramid-shaped thatched roofs and a swimming pool. On a recent afternoon, the swine snoozed to the soothing sounds of soft jazz in their custom-built residence, which has been called China’s most beautiful sty.
这个大约30头黑猪的家不是普通的圈舍。开放式竹结构的建筑有着金字塔形状的茅草屋顶，还有一个游泳池。前不久的一个下午，这些猪在柔和爵士乐让人放松的乐声中打着盹。它们的定制住所被称为中国最美猪圈。
The sty was designed by Chen Haoru, an architect and professor at the architecture school of the China Academy of Art in Hangzhou. He is part of a wave of architects who in recent years, as funding for projects in big cities has dried up, have turned their attention to China’s other frontier: the rural outback.
这个猪圈是杭州的中国美术学院建筑学院教授、建筑师陈浩如设计的。近些年，由于大城市建设项目的资金逐渐枯竭，很多建筑师把目光转向中国的又一片新天地：偏远农村。陈浩如就是其中一位。
“Ten years ago, there weren’t that many opportunities to do projects in the countryside,” Mr. Chen said as he led a tour through the Sun Commune grounds. “All of the focus was on the cities. There was no interest in the rural areas.”
“十年前，没有这么多机会在农村做项目，”陈浩如带着访客参观太阳公社时说，“人们的注意力都在城市。对农村没有兴趣。”
A number of factors have combined to create fertile ground for such projects. Restrictions on the transfer of rural land have been relaxed. Urban residents, tired of constant food safety scares and environmental crises, have become increasingly interested in rural lifestyles and organic farming. Domestic tourism, bolstered by the growth of the middle class, is booming.
很多因素共同为这些项目创造了沃土。政府放松了对农村土地转让的限制。城市居民厌倦了持续不断的食品安全恐慌和环境危机，对农村生活方式和有机农业越来越感兴趣。中产阶级的增长也拉动了国内旅游业的繁荣。
Even President Xi Jinping has endorsed the shift in emphasis. During a speech in 2013, he called for the construction of a meili xiangcun, or “beautiful countryside,” one in which “money is not squandered on unnecessary things” like tasteless exterior enhancements.
甚至连习近平主席也支持这一重心的转变。他在2013年的一次讲话中呼吁建设美丽乡村，称“不要把钱花在不必要的事情上”，比如没有品位的外部粉饰。
The nature of the projects varies. Some focus on tourism, others on farming or community development. In addition to Mr. Chen’s pig barn, notable examples have included a village library near Beijing by Li Xiaodong, a rural community center and museum in Henan Province by He Wei, and a rural regeneration project near Hangzhou recently completed by Wang Shu, who was awarded the Pritzker Prize, architecture’s equivalent of the Nobel, in 2012.
这些项目的本质各不相同。有的侧重旅游，有的侧重农业或社区发展。除了陈浩如的猪圈，其他一些著名的例子包括：李晓东在北京附近设计的一个乡村图书馆；何崴在河南省设计的一个村民活动中心兼博物馆；以及前不久在杭州附近落成的一个农村再生项目——这个项目的设计师是2012年获得普利兹克奖（Pritzker Prize，相当于建筑界的诺贝尔奖）的王澍。
But they all have a common goal: to revitalize the countryside and enhance its appeal to young people, farmers, visitors and educated workers.
不过，它们都有一个共同的目标：复兴农村，提升它对年轻人、农民、游客和受过教育的就业者的吸引力。
“The most important thing is to make the villages attractive to people again,” said Mr. Wang, who also teaches at the China Academy of Art.
“最重要的事情是让农村变得又有吸引力，”王澍说。他也在中国美术学院任教。
“The farmers have lost confidence in their own way of life,” he added. “They think villages are backward and that cities are good.”
“农民对自己的生活方式失去了信心，”他还说。“他们觉得农村落后，城里好。”
“These projects are not just about making beautiful buildings,” said He Wei, an architect and professor at the Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing. “They’re about function and stimulating economic activity.”
“这些项目不光是要盖漂亮的房子，”在北京的中央美术学院担任教授的建筑师何崴说。“还要具有功能性，能激发经济活动。”
Opportunities to build in the countryside have expanded even as mass urbanization continues to hollow out China’s villages. The country’s rapid urbanization push has led to groups of villages being razed to make way for high-rises.
大规模城镇化一直在让中国乡村空心化。即便如此，农村地区的建筑机会也在不断扩展。中国快速的城镇化进程让大批村庄被推倒，给高层建筑让路。
From 2000 to 2010, the number of villages in China dropped to 2.6 million from 3.7 million, a loss of about 300 villages a day, according to research by Tianjin University.
天津大学的研究显示，从2000年到2010年，中国的村庄数量从370万个锐减至260万，平均每天约有300座村子消失。
In Zhejiang Province, the site of the Sun Commune, thousands of villages have been destroyed. According to research by Mr. Wang, only about 30,000 are left in the province. And most, he said, are in danger of disappearing in the next decade.
在太阳公社所在的浙江省，有成千上万的村庄不复存在。根据王澍进行的研究，省内仅剩下了大约3万个村子。他说，其中大多数也面临着在今后10年消失的危险。
“Everyone, including the local government, is interested in this topic of how to revive China’s villages,” he said.
“每个人，包括当地政府，都对怎么样重振中国乡村的话题感兴趣，”他说。
Architects see an opportunity to play a special role in this revitalization. For one, their designs can enhance the reputation of a rural development project and stimulate tourism or agriculture.
建筑师们看到了自己在其中起到特殊作用的机会。比如，他们的设计可以提升乡村开发项目的名气，刺激旅游业或农业的发展。
That is what the Shanghai businessman Chen Wei had in mind when he turned to his friend Mr. Chen, the architect, to help him build a barn for pigs as part of his organic farm. It was 2013, at about the same time that 16,000 dead pigs were found floating in the nearby Huangpu River after having been dumped by farmers upstream.
正是出于这样的原因，上海商人陈卫找到了建筑师朋友陈浩如来打造一个猪圈，放到自己开发的有机农场上。此事发生在2013年，差不多就在那段时间，由于上游农户的丢弃行为，不远处的黄浦江上飘浮了1.6万头死猪。
“In China, the city people never really interact with rural people, so there’s very little social trust,” said Mr. Chen, the businessman and now the director of the Sun Commune. “The barn is a major draw, it’s part of our brand. It attracts people from the cities to come to the farm so they can actually get to know the people who are growing their food.”
“在中国，城里人从来都不跟农村人互动，所以不存在什么社会信任，”身为太阳公社社长的陈卫说。“这间猪舍有很大的吸引力，构成了我们品牌的一部分。它吸引城里人来到我们农场，可以实实在在地了解到给他们提供粮食的人。”
Others, like Mr. Wang and his wife, Lu Wenyu, have taken on rural projects with the aim of creating a model for sustainable development in the countryside.
其他一些建筑师承接乡村项目的时候则抱着树立农村可持续发展模式的目标。王澍与夫人陆文宇便是如此。
In 2012, Mr. Wang and Ms. Lu began working on Wencun, a village about an hour’s drive from the Sun Commune. Through constant negotiation and consultation with local government officials and villagers, Mr. Wang and Ms. Lu oversaw an expansive regeneration project, which included the construction of two dozen new houses and the refurbishment of some of Wencun’s existing homes and public spaces.
在2012年，夫妇二人开始进行文村项目。这里距离太阳公社大概有一小时车程。通过与当地政府官员及村民的反复沟通和协商，王澍和陆文宇承担起规模庞大的再生项目，不仅新建了二十多座住房，还改造了文村的部分老房和公共空间。
The new homes, which were completed this year, combine elements of traditional houses in the Wencun area — like an inner courtyard and a room where families would pay respects to their ancestors — with modern amenities, like an access road for cars and a space designated for watching television. Mr. Wang’s signature design elements are woven throughout: narrow rectangular windows, unfinished concrete exteriors and patchwork masonry.
这些新房子于今年完工，将文村地区传统房屋的部分元素——比如其内庭，以及祭拜祖先的房间——与现代化设施融合起来，像是修了车道，专辟一片看电视的地方。王澍的标志性设计贯穿其中：狭长的玻璃窗，粗糙的混凝土外墙，以及拼接的砖石构造。
As of a few weeks ago, only a few of the houses had been occupied. But a villager who poked her head out of one said: “So far, it’s been nice living here. It’s cleaner, and the walls are whiter.”
几周前的时候，还只有少数房屋住了人。不过，从其中一栋房子探出头来的村民说：“现在住得还不错。变干净了，墙也白一些。”
While the Wencun project is still getting off the ground, Mr. Wang is already trying to work out how this type of design-based development might be replicated on a larger scale.
虽然文村项目还处于开始应用的阶段，王澍已经在尝试想出办法，将这种基于设计的开发方式复制到更大的尺度上。
“With Wencun, we’ve created a research and work method that can be copied, but the challenge is still scalability,” he said. “In terms of implementation, every village has different traditions and vernacular architecture. There’s no one template.”
“有了文村，我们就创造了一种可以复制的研究和工作方法，但扩展性还是一个挑战，”他说。“谈到执行，每个村子都有不同的传统和地方建筑。不存在统一的模板。”