BEIJING — Responding to the flight of two unarmed American B-52 bombers through China’s new air defense zone over the East China Sea, the Chinese government said Wednesday it had monitored the planes but had decided not to take action despite the American refusal to identify the aircraft.
北京——中国政府周三对两架未携带武器的美国B-52轰炸机飞越中国新划设的东海防空标识区作出回应称，中国对这两架飞机进行了监视，尽管美国拒绝通报飞机身份，但决定不对其做出反应。
At a briefing in Beijing, the Foreign Ministry said the quiet reaction to what was a clear test by the United States of the new zone was “in accordance” with the rules announced by the Chinese Defense Ministry. China’s response to foreign aircraft in the new zone would depend on “how big the threat” was, the spokesman said.
外交部在北京的一次例行记者会上称，中方对美国明显试探该新区域行为的平静反应，是“根据”中国国防部发布的规则公告作出的。外交部发言人说，中方对这一新空域内的外国飞机的反应要看可能面临的“威胁程度”而定。
Japan’s main civilian airlines also disregarded the new defense zone Wednesday, flying through the airspace claimed by China without notifying the Beijing authorities.
日本主要的民用航空公司周三也没有理睬新防空识别区的规定，在没有通知中国当局的情况下飞越了中国宣称拥有主权的空域。
Tensions in the region have escalated since China published a map of a new “air defense identification zone” Saturday that overlapped with an air defense zone of its archrival, Japan, increasing the possibility of an encounter between Japanese and Chinese aircraft and heightening the dispute over islands in the East China Sea that both countries claim.
中国在上周六发布一个新“防空标识区”地图后，该地区的紧张局势升级，这一区域与中国的主要敌对国日本的一个防空区有重叠，导致中日两国飞机意外相遇的可能性增加，也使东海岛屿的领土争端更显著，两国都对这些岛屿宣称拥有主权。
The Chinese declaration brought the United States, a treaty ally of Japan, directly into the dispute when it dispatched the B-52 to the area overnight Monday.
 当美国在周一夜间派B-52轰炸机飞越这一区域时，中国划设防空标识区的公告把美国直接带入争端，美国是日本的条约盟友。
The abrupt declaration by China of its air defense zone unnerved Asian countries and was criticized by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan as a “dangerous attempt” to change the status quo in the East China Sea by coercion.
中国突然宣布有关防空标识区的公告令亚洲国家不安，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)指责其是强行改变东海现状的一次“危险尝试”。
China said it would require foreign aircraft flying through the zone to identify themselves or face possible military interception. The Pentagon said the B-52 bombers, which took off from Guam, were on a long-planned exercise, but Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said the United States had no intention of changing its procedures by notifying China of American Air Force flights through the zone.
中国称将要求飞越这一空域的外国飞机通报身份，否则可能会面临军方的拦截。五角大楼表示，从关岛起飞的B-52轰炸机是在执行一次计划已久的训练任务，但美国国防部部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)说，美国不会改变其现行做法，不会在美国空军飞机经过这一区域时向中国通报。
The Chinese Ministry of Defense, which released the coordinates of the new zone, said Wednesday that it had monitored the flight path of the two B-52s and noted that they flew about 125 miles east of the Diaoyu Islands from 11 a.m. to 1:22 p.m. on Tuesday. The disputed islands in the East China Sea are known as the Diaoyu by China and as the Senkaku by Japan.
公布了该新区域坐标的中国国防部在周三称，中国对这两架B-52轰炸机的飞行路线进行了监视，并指出它们在周二早上11点到下午1点22分这段时间内，飞经钓鱼岛以东约200公里的空域。中国称东海这些有主权争议的岛屿为钓鱼岛，日本称之为尖阁诸岛。
“China has the ability to implement effective management and control of the airspace,” the Defense Ministry said in its statement.
国防部在一份声明中说，“中方有能力对相关空域实施有效管控。”
A senior Chinese analyst, Shi Yinhong, who sometimes advises the Chinese government, acknowledged that the new air zone had worsened the already poisonous relations between China and Japan and represented a test of wills between the United States and China.
中国资深分析人士时殷弘承认，新防空识别区的划设让中日之间已经很糟的关系进一步恶化，也是中美两国的一次意志测试。时殷弘有时为中国政府提建议。
The Chinese action comes on the eve of a visit by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to China, Japan and South Korea, a trip that was supposed to be dominated by economic issues but will now probably be consumed by the fallout from the new air defense zone.
中国做出此举动的时间是在美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)即将访问中国、日本和韩国的前夕，这次访问原计划主要讨论经济问题，但现在将可能被新防空识别区的附带后果问题所占据。
The relations among all three countries — including tensions between the United States’ two main Asian allies, Japan and South Korea — were fraught even before Mr. Biden’s arrival.
在拜登到来之前，这三个国家之间的关系，包括美国两大亚洲盟友日本和韩国之间的关系，就已经充满紧张气氛。
But most of all, Mr. Biden will now be faced with the reality of Beijing’s determination to show what kind of major power relationship it wants with the United States, namely one in which China is regarded as an equal.
但现的首要问题是，拜登需要面对北京决策的现实，中国已表明其希望与美国有什么样的大国关系，也就是中国被平等对待的关系。
“China is engaged with Japan in a very intense confrontation, and the situation is very bad,” said Mr. Shi, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing. “The risk of escalating to a major conflict is increased.”
北京的人民大学国际关系学院教授时殷弘说，“中国与日本紧张对峙，局势很糟糕。升级为一场大冲突的风险正在增加。”
But Mr. Shi defended the new air zone as an expression of China’s determination to be regarded as a great power.
但是时殷弘辩称，划定新防空识别区所表达的是中国要被作为一个强国对待的决心。
“This is the first time since the establishment of the People’s Republic of China in 1949 that it has expanded its strategic space beyond offshore waters,” he said.
他说，“这是自1949年中华人民共和国成立以来，中国第一次将战略空间扩展到近海水域以外的地方。”
That expansion of China’s strategic area provoked the United States to fly the two B-52 bombers through the new air zone without warning Beijing, he said.
他说，中国战略区域的扩大驱使美国派出两架B-52轰炸机，在不事先警告北京的情况下，飞越这一新空域。
“That’s why Washington made such a harsh and firm reaction,” he said. “This represents America saying ‘no’ to China’s aspiration in the western Pacific.”
他说，“这就是为什么华盛顿做出如此严厉而坚定回应的原因。这代表着美国对中国在西太平洋的抱负说‘不’。”
It was possible that President Xi Jinping, who has taken charge of China’s foreign policy in his first year in power and had taken a far more forceful posture than his predecessors, had underestimated the American reaction, he said.
国家主席习近平有可能低估了美国的反应，习近平在其上台的第一年就掌管了中国的外交政策，他拿出比几位前任更加强硬的姿态，时殷弘说。
“I believe Xi and his associates must have predicted the substance of the American reaction, whether they underestimated the details, I’m not sure,” he said.
他说，“我认为习近平和他的副手们肯定对美国反应的实质有所估计，但他们是否低估了具体细节，我没有把握。”
On Chinese social media, users unleashed a barrage of nationalist commentary, congratulating the government for a tough stand against Japan and warning that Beijing should live up to the promise of the new air defense zone in confronting Japan.
中国网民在社交媒体上发了大量的充满民族主义的评论，祝贺政府对日本采取强硬态度，并警告称，在与日本对峙中，北京应当履行自己新防空识别区的承诺。
“If the Chinese military doesn’t do anything about aircraft that don’t obey the commands to identify themselves in the zone, it will face international ridicule,” wrote Ni Fangliu, a historian and investigative journalist with more than two million followers on his Tencent microblog.
历史学家和调查性新闻记者倪方六在他有着200万关注者的腾讯微博上发帖称，“但如中国军方对不服从识别区指令的飞机不采取动作，将被国际嘲笑！”
The Liberation Army Daily, the official newspaper of China’s military, said in a commentary published before the Chinese government acknowledged the B-52 flights that the zone required strong warning and defensive capabilities, otherwise its creation is just “armchair strategy.”
在中国政府承认了美国B-52轰炸机飞越该空域之前，中国人民解放军报纸《解放军报》曾发表评论文章称，这种区域需要有强大的预警和反应能力，否则就是纸上谈兵。
Asked at the Foreign Ministry briefing whether China’s decision not to respond to the flight of the B-52s rendered China a “paper tiger,” the spokesman, Qin Gang, ducked the question.
在外交部例会上，当被问及中国对B-52的飞行没有做出回应是否表明中国是“纸老虎”时，外交部发言人秦刚避开了这个问题。
“The word paper tiger has its special meaning. You should look it up, about why Chairman Mao Zedong spoke of the phrase ‘paper tiger,'” he said. “Here, I would like to emphasize that the Chinese government has enough determination and capability to defend national sovereignty.”
他说，“‘纸老虎’这个词是有特别含意的。你可以查查，当年毛泽东主席说“纸老虎”指的是什么。我想强调，中国政府有足够的决心和能力捍卫国家主权。”
South Korea, which has recently developed friendlier relations with China, said it could not accept the new defense zone. The coordinates announced by China overlap with South Korea’s air defense identification zone in some respects. Yoo Jeh-seung, the deputy defense minister for policy of South Korea, said Seoul would not recognize China’s declaration.
最近和中国关系转暖的韩国称不能接受这一新防空设别区。中国公布的坐标与韩国的防空识别区在某些地方有重叠。韩国国防部国防政策室室长柳济胜（Yoo Jeh-seung，音译）说，首尔不承认中国的这一公告。
China, adding heft to its growing air and sea presence, dispatched its only aircraft carrier, the Liaoning, on Tuesday for a training exercise in the South China Sea for its first lengthy sea voyage. In order to reach the South China Sea, the Chinese news media said, the carrier might sail close to the Okinawan Islands of Japan.
为其不断增长的天空和海域实力增加分量，中国在周二派出唯一的航空母舰辽宁号前往南海进行首次远航演习训练。中国媒体报道称，为了到达南海，这艘航空母舰可能会驶过离日本冲绳岛不远的地方。