Over the past five years or so, as the poaching of elephants has swelled to record numbers, environmentalists and researchers have pointed a finger firmly at China’s ravenous appetite for ivory as the main cause for what is now widely described as a crisis.
过去5年多来，随着被偷猎大象的数量剧增到多次创记录的程度，环保人士以及研究者一直毫不含糊地指出，导致如今被人们广泛描述为一场危机的主要原因，是中国对象牙的贪婪需求。
On Monday, however, the Chinese authorities received widespread plaudits when, in a first for the country, they destroyed more than six tons of confiscated ivory ornaments and tusks in Dongguan, a city in the southern province of Guangdong, which is a major hub for the ivory trade.
因此，中国政府周一在东莞销毁了6吨多没收的象牙制品和多根象牙的首次这类行动受到普遍称赞，东莞位于广东省南部，是象牙交易的一个主要集散地。
Environmentalists said they hoped that the widely publicized event, which was attended by state officials, foreign diplomats and wildlife campaigners, would raise awareness within China of the dramatic scale of elephant poaching.
环保人士说，他们希望这次被广泛宣传的活动能增加中国国内对大规模偷猎大象问题的认识，参加此次销毁行动的有政府官员、外国使节以及提倡保护野生动物的人士。
Cristián Samper, president and chief executive of the Wildlife Conservation Society, said in a statement that the society “congratulated” the Chinese government “for showing the world that elephant poaching and illegal ivory consumption is unacceptable. We are hopeful that this gesture shows that we can win the war against poaching and that elephants will once again flourish.”
野生生物保护协会(Wildlife Conservation Society)会长兼首席执行官克里斯蒂安·桑佩尔(Cristián Samper)在该协会的一份声明中说，协会“祝贺”中国政府“向全世界展示不接受偷猎大象以及非法象牙消费的行动。这一行动表明我们能打赢抵御偷猎的战争、能让大象再次繁荣兴旺，我们对此充满希望。”
Patrick Bergin, chief executive of the African Wildlife Foundation, described the event as a “courageous and critical first step by China to elevate the important issue of wildlife trafficking and elephant poaching among its citizens and around the world.”
非洲野生动物基金会(African Wildlife Foundation)首席执行官帕特里克·伯金(Patrick Bergin)说，这一行动是“中国为在国民中以及全世界提高对走私野生动物和偷猎大象问题严重性的认识上迈出的勇敢且关键的第一步。”
Monday’s event followed a similar exercise in the United States, where six tons of ivory were destroyed in November. The Philippines, Kenya and Gabon have also destroyed stocks of ivory in their countries.
周一的这次行动是继美国的一次类似行动之后，美国曾在去年11月销毁了6吨象牙。菲律宾、肯尼亚以及加蓬也都曾在本国销毁过库存的象牙。
Mr. Bergin said that China, as the largest market for ivory in the world, has a “very important role to play in helping end the elephant slaughter in Africa. The Chinese government is to be commended for taking the issue seriously.”
伯金说，中国作为世界上最大的象牙市场“在协助停止非洲大象的屠杀上起着非常重要的作用。（我们）高度赞扬中国政府严肃对待这个问题。”
Rising affluence and more open trade links between China and the rest of the world have fueled demand for scarce natural resources – anything from ivory to tortoises, shark fins and rosewood – over the past few years, wreaking havoc in many ecosystems and pushing many species to the brink.
过去几年中，中国不断提高的富裕程度以及与其他国家之间更开放的贸易联系推动了对稀缺自然资源的需求，从象牙到陆龟、从鱼翅到黄檀木，这些需求给很多生态系统造成严重破坏，导致许多物种濒临灭绝。
As I reported in March, international conservation efforts, like the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, have struggled to stem the tide of demand, in part because of the sheer speed at which the situation has changed.
正如我去年3月所报道的，诸如《濒危野生动植物种国际贸易公约》(Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species)等国际保护行动在遏止需求的大潮上困难重重，部分原因是由于情况变化的速度太快。
Part of the problem is that the trade is lucrative. As Dan Levin wrote last year, raw ivory can fetch more than $1,000 a pound.
难题的部分原因是这种贸易利润巨大。正如记者林丹(Dan Levin)去年所报道的，未经加工的象牙每斤售价可超过1000美元（约合6000元人民币）。
Patchy enforcement and muddled messaging on the part of the Chinese authorities, he reported, also have made it hard to combat the trade and diminish demand.The event in Dongguan should help hammer home the message a lot more clearly, wildlife activists now hope.
他的报道称，中国当局的零星执法及其传递的不明确信息也加大了打击这种贸易、减少需求的难度。野生动物保护人士现在希望，东莞的这次行动应该能更清晰地传递这一信息。
But there is still a long way to go. The six-plus tons destroyed on Monday represent only a small part of China’s total ivory stockpile. There is no official data on how much seized ivory China has, but the Wildlife Conservation Society said on Monday that it was likely well over 45 tons.
但还有很长的路要走。周一被销毁的6吨多象牙只不过是中国截获的象牙总库存中的一小部分。虽然没有中国已截获了多少象牙的官方数字，但野生生物保护协会周一说，总量可能在45吨以上。
As I have reported in the past, Hong Kong’s stash of confiscated ivory also has swelled sharply, thanks to several large intercepts in recent years.
我过去曾报道，由于最近几年没收的几大批象牙，香港的截获象牙的存量也有大幅增长。
“If China were to destroy the remainder of its ivory stocks and lead the world by committing not to buying ivory in the future,” said Mr. Samper of the Wildlife Conservation Society, “it would have a transformative, positive impact on the survival of African elephants.”
野生生物保护协会的桑佩尔说，“如果中国能销毁其余的象牙库存，并带领全世界保证在未来不再购买象牙制品，这对非洲大象的生存来说将具有天翻地覆的积极影响。”