CHANGSHA, China — The crash happened in an instant two years ago, ending 40 lives, injuring 192 people and casting a lasting shadow over the reputation of China’s high-speed rail system.
中国长沙——两年前，一起列车相撞事故导致40人丧生，192人受伤，并让中国高铁的声誉长期笼罩在阴影之下。
When a rainstorm briefly disabled the signaling equipment on a high-speed rail line near Wenzhou in southern China on July 23, 2011, one high-speed train stopped on a concrete viaduct and the one behind it did not. The stopped train had just started moving forward again when the trailing train smashed into it, spilling shattered cars off the viaduct and 65 feet down into the fields below.
2011年7月23日，在中国南部城市温州附近，暴风雨导致高铁的信号设备出现暂时故障，一辆列车停在了水泥高架桥上，但它后面的那辆却在继续前进。当前面的列车刚刚重新开动时，后面的列车撞上了它，一些车厢冲出高架桥，落到65英尺下方（约20米）的地面上。
While the crash is still talked about in China today, statistics suggest that China’s high-speed trains have actually proved to be one of the world’s safest transportation systems so far. Less clear is how long that safety record will last.
在中国，虽然人们至今仍会提到这起列车追尾事故，但统计数据实际上已经证明，中国高铁是迄今为止世界上最安全的运输系统之一。不过这个安全纪录可以维持多久就不太清楚了。
Government data shows that the system has carried about 1.8 billion passengers since the start of 2009. Rail experts inside and outside China say they are not aware of any fatal crashes other than the one near Wenzhou. They also note that obsessive attention to the rail system by social media users means that it would be nearly impossible to cover up another fatal high-speed train crash — although there have been unconfirmed reports of pedestrians killed after sneaking past fences and on to the tracks.
中国政府公布的数据表明，自2009年年初以来，高铁已运送乘客约18亿人次。中外的铁路专家们都说，除了温州附近的那起追尾事故之外，他们没有听说过有其他列车事故致人死亡。他们还指出，社交媒体用户对铁路系统高度敏感，因此要掩盖另一起致人死亡的高速列车事故几乎是不可能的——不过一些未经证实的报告称，有行人由于偷偷穿越围栏、走上铁轨而丧命。
Comparing the 40 deaths in the crash two years ago to the number of Chinese high-speed train trips completed without loss of life over the last several years suggests that the trains have been exceptionally safe overall, said Arnold I. Barnett, a mathematician at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who is one of the world’s best-known experts on aviation safety statistics.
两年前的列车追尾事故导致40人死亡，把它跟中国高速列车过去几年中没有致人死亡的车次数量相比较，可以看出中国高铁整体来说非常安全，阿诺德·巴尼特(Arnold I. Barnett)说。他是麻省理工学院的数学家，也是世界上最知名的航空安全统计专家之一。
“Chinese high-speed rail has so far established a mortality-risk level that equals or exceeds that of the world’s safest airlines,” Mr. Barnett wrote in an e-mail.
“中国高铁到目前为止的死亡风险率水平，跟世界上最安全的航空公司一样或者更低，”巴尼特在一封邮件中写道。
The high-speed rail system’s safety record is particularly good compared with the record of China’s roads, which are 6 to 20 times as deadly per million registered vehicles as in the United States.
跟中国公路相比，中国高铁的安全程度尤为可观。中国公路的每百万辆车致死率是美国的6至20倍。
China’s aviation system had a poor safety record until the 1990s, when it worked very closely with the Federal Aviation Administration in the United States to revamp its procedures. The passenger death risk per flight has improved since then, but it remained nearly double the level in the United States from 2008 through 2012, according to Mr. Barnett’s statistics.
从前，中国航空系统的安全纪录较差，但在20世纪90年代，它跟美国联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)展开密切合作，修改了各种工作流程。巴尼特的统计资料显示，自那之后，中国航空的每航班乘客死亡风险率出现了下降，但在2008年到2012年期间，它仍然比美国高出将近一倍。
It is also unreliable. FlightStats, an online aviation data service, calculates that so far this year, Shanghai and Beijing have had far worse on-time departure records than major international airports in any other country that the company tracks, with as few as one in six flights leaving on time — another reason Chinese travelers are switching to high-speed trains.
而且中国航空系统的可靠性也比较差。根据网上航空数据公司Flightstats的计算，今年到目前为止，上海和北京的航班准时起飞率比任何其他国家的主要国际机场都低，每六个航班中只有一个准点起飞，这也是中国乘客转向高速列车的另一个原因。
China’s high-speed rail system faces a huge challenge in maintaining its own safety record of the last two years. And that is not just because of its sheer size, operating nearly 2,000 train trips a day.
对于中国高铁来说，保持过去两年的安全纪录是一个巨大挑战。这不仅是因为其规模庞大，每天都要发送将近2000个车次。
China borrowed a mishmash of technologies from major rail companies around the world and then built the system in record time, often relying on domestically produced parts for reasons of nationalism and cost. Settling and sinking of the land underneath the foundations of rail viaducts has already been a concern.
中国混杂采用了全球主要铁路公司的技术，然后在创纪录的短时间内修建了高铁，而且出于民族主义和成本考虑，高铁大量采用国产零部件。如今，高架桥下方的地基沉降已经引发了一些人的担心。
Another worry is that China opted not to use expensive chemical hardening agents for the concrete viaducts, which could result in their showing premature wear and tear. That could limit top speeds, which were already reduced to 186 miles per hour from 217 m.p.h. after the crash two years ago.
另一个让人担心的地方是，中国的混凝土高架桥没有使用昂贵的化学硬化剂，可能会导致它过早损耗，而这又会让列车的最高时速受到制约。两年前的追尾事故发生后，高铁的最高速度已经从每小时217英里降至了186英里。
The government is now extending high-speed rail lines into seismically active areas of western China that have had many earthquakes since the deadly Sichuan quake in 2008. Earthquakes are a hazard for trains not just because they can move tracks out of alignment, but also because they can disrupt signaling equipment.
现在，中国政府正在把高铁线路延伸到中国西部的地震活跃地区。自2008年四川大地震造成大量人员伤亡之后，这里又发生过多起地震。地震给列车运行造成危险，因为它不仅会破坏铁轨，还会干扰信号设备。