KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — Unidentified gunmen kidnapped a Chinese tourist and a Filipino hotel worker, both women, from a beach resort on an island in Malaysian Borneo, Chinese and Malaysian authorities said Thursday, spurring an international manhunt for the assailants by law enforcement officials.
马为西亚吉隆坡——中国和马来西亚官方周四称，几个身份不明的持枪者在马来西亚婆罗洲一个海边度假地绑架了一名中国籍女游客和一名菲律宾籍酒店女工作人员，引发了执法人员对劫持者展开一场跨国搜捕。
The abductions, which occurred late Wednesday, appeared to be the work of insurgents from the nearby islands of the southern Philippines who have been fighting the Filipino government for years, security experts said. The incident risked complicating the fraught relationship between China and Malaysia, which has suffered additional strain since the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
安全专家认为，这起在周三晚间发生的绑架事件看来是附近的菲律宾南部岛屿的叛乱者所为，这些叛乱者多年来一直在与菲律宾政府战斗。绑架事件可能会让中国与马来西亚之间问题颇多的关系变得更为复杂，两国关系在马来西亚航空公司370航班失踪后已受到更多的压力。
The women were snatched from the Singamata Reef Resort, a diving and snorkeling retreat built on stilts above a reef off Sabah, a state in eastern Malaysia.
这位女游客是在仙本那海上度假村(Singamata Reef Resort)中被绑架的，这是马来西亚东部沙巴州的一个用桩子建在岛礁之上的跳水和潜水度假村。
Chinese tourists at the resort told a Chinese newspaper, The Huaxi Metropolitan Daily, that they had heard gunshots as a group of gunmen stormed the hotel, grabbed the victims and spirited them away on speedboats. Photos posted on the newspaper’s website and reportedly taken during the attack show hotel guests crouching behind upturned tables. There were about 60 Chinese guests at the hotel at the time, the paper said.
该度假村的中国游客告诉《华西都市报》说，一伙武装人员冲进来，随后听见枪声，他们将被绑架者拖上快艇带走。该报网站上的照片据称是在案发现场拍摄的，照片上酒店客人蹲在掀翻的桌子后面。该报称，案发时该酒店里住有约60名中国游客。
Various armed groups, including Muslim separatist factions fighting to establish an independent state, operate throughout the southern Philippines and use kidnappings for ransom to help finance their operations. Some of these groups operate with near impunity in the Sulu Archipelago of the southern Philippines, close to eastern Malaysia.
各种武装团体在菲律宾南部活动，其中包括一些为成立一个独立国家而战斗的穆斯林分裂派系，他们靠绑架索要赎金来为其行动提供资金支持。这些团体中，有些在菲律宾南部苏卢群岛附近几乎可以逍遥法外地行动，那里临近马来西亚东部。
While no group immediately claimed responsibility for the kidnappings, security experts said Abu Sayyaf, a particularly violent group that has in the past been linked to Al Qaeda, was probably responsible.
虽然还没有组织立即表示对这次绑架负责，安全专家称，以前曾与基地组织有联系的一个特别暴力的组织阿布沙耶夫(Abu Sayyaf)可能对此负有责任。
Mars S. Buan, senior analyst with Pacific Strategies and Assessments, a risk assessment firm based in Manila, said the kidnappers were believed to be operating under the command of Murphy Ladja, an insurgent in the Filipino province of Sulu, who was also implicated in the kidnapping of foreigners and resort workers in Sipadan, Malaysia, in 2000.
总部在马尼拉的风险评估事务所“太平洋战略与评估”(Pacific Strategies and Assessments)的高级分析师马尔斯·S·比昂 (Mars S. Buan)说，据认这次绑架是在菲律宾南部苏卢省的叛乱分子墨菲·拉贾(Murphy Ladja)指挥下进行的，他涉嫌曾在2000年在马来西亚西马丹绑架过外国人和酒店员工。
The Foreign Affairs Department of the Philippines said in a statement Thursday afternoon that the country’s maritime forces and anti-kidnapping teams were “actively and closely coordinating with their Malaysian counterparts in exchanging information and in working toward the speedy resolution of the case.”
菲律宾外交部(Foreign Affairs Department of the Philippines)周四下午在一份声明中表示，该国的海警以及反绑架队伍正在“积极、密切地与马来西亚的有关部门协调，以便交换信息，并为案件的迅速解决而努力。”
An employee at the hotel who answered the phone on Thursday confirmed the incident but declined to provide further information.
周四在该酒店接听电话的一位员工证实发生了这一事件，但拒绝提供更多的信息。
Kidnappings in the Muslim-dominated parts of southern Philippines, especially in the Sulu Archipelago, have sharply increased recently, Ms. Buan said. During the last two months, there were at least 10 kidnappings in Sulu and nearby areas in Mindanao, the southernmost major island of the Philippines. The victims included residents and tourists.
比昂说，最近在菲律宾南部的穆斯林人口占多数的地区，尤其是苏卢群岛，绑架案件数量激增。在过去2个月中，在苏卢和菲律宾最南部的棉兰老岛地区，已经至少发生过10起绑架案。被绑架者有当地居民也有游客。
Kidnappings in Malaysia by Filipino armed groups are far less frequent, happening about once a year in recent years.
而菲律宾武装团伙在马来西亚绑架人质的事件远没有那样频繁，最近几年中，大约每年发生一次。
Though it is listed as a terrorist group by the United States and has in the past been linked to Al Qaeda, Abu Sayyaf is most often classified these days as a kidnap-for-ransom group and is thought to have fewer than 100 fighters. But its tendency to commit audacious acts of violence — such as beheadings, rapes and kidnappings — as well as its links to international terrorist organizations, has given it an outsize profile. The group has become the prime concern of the 500 or so American special forces soldiers stationed in Zamboanga City, who are serving as anti-terrorist advisers to Philippine forces.
虽然阿布沙耶夫团伙过去与基地组织有联系，被美国列为恐怖组织，但是目前，该组织更经常被认为是一个绑架索要赎金的团伙，该组织的武装人员据认不到100名。但是由于该团伙经常从事大胆的暴力行动，比如斩首、强奸和绑架，以及其与国际恐怖组织的联系，其名声更广为人知。该团伙已成为美国驻扎在三宝颜市的500名左右美国特种部队士兵的主要关注对象，这支美国部队是菲律宾军方的反恐顾问。
In one recent kidnapping, Abu Sayyaf militants abducted a Taiwanese businesswoman from a resort in Semporna, Malaysia, last November. The militants shot and killed the woman’s husband after he tried to fight off the kidnappers, and the victim was released the following month.
最近发生的一起绑架案是，去年11月阿布沙耶夫的武装人员在马来西亚仙本那一个度假村绑架了一名台湾女商人。她的丈夫在试图击退绑架者的过程中被他们开枪打死，她在被绑架的下月获得释放。