DULONG, China — The narrow valley is one of the most remote and pristine in China. Monkeys, Asian black bears and the rare goatlike takin roam through rain-soaked forests above a river the color of jade. In spring, hillsides are splashed with pink rhododendron blossoms. Until two years ago, snowfall on a mountain pass blocked vehicle access for many months each year.­
中国独龙江乡——这座狭长的河谷是中国最为原始偏远的地区之一。猴子、亚洲黑熊和稀有的羚羊在雨水浸透的森林中出没，下面是一湾碧绿的江水。春天的时候，山坡上开满了粉色的杜鹃。直到两年前，这里下雪就会导致封山，每年有很多个月里不能通车。
Now, in this sliver of land on the eastern rim of the Himalayas, the government is building new roads, expanding telecommunications and encouraging commercial ventures to alleviate poverty. Li Yingchun, who used to hike five days over a snowcapped mountain range from a village here to attend a boarding school, said a new paved road that runs through a seven-kilometer tunnel slicing into the mountains had made life easier.
现如今，在喜马拉雅山脉东缘的这片狭长地带，政府正为了脱贫在兴修公路，扩展电信覆盖，鼓励商业活动。李迎春当年从村里去寄宿学校得花上五天时间翻越一座雪山。他说，现在新修了一条路，在山里开了七公里的隧道，生活就方便了。
But he worries about the impact on both the environment and society from the explosion of activity. Already, a state-owned enterprise has built at least two hydropower stations along the Dulong River. Hotels are springing up.
不过，对活动激增带来的环境和社会影响，他有所担心。一家国企已经在独龙江上建了至少两座水电站。旅馆如雨后春笋般冒出来。
“Where there is a road, there are cars,” said Mr. Li, 29, an ecologist who earned a master’s degree at a provincial university. “There is too much human activity.”
“哪里有路，哪里就有车，”从事生态工作的李迎春说。他今年29岁，在省里的大学取得了硕士学位。“人类活动太多了。”
Opened in 2014, the serpentine road has sheer drops, dizzying turns and rubble from rockslides. It has also cut travel time to the county seat — now a mere three hours rather than a full day’s rough drive along a 15-year-old dirt road, which was impassable in winter.
这条蜿蜒的山路于2014年通车，陡升陡降，九曲十八弯，还有落石的危险。不过，它大大缩短了去往县城的时间——过去要沿着一条有15年历史的坑洼土路开一整天，冬天根本无法通行，如今却只要三小时。
The changes that have transformed so many parts of China are unfolding at warp speed in the Dulong River Valley. It is home to almost all of the country’s 7,000 ethnic Dulong, or Drung, one of the smallest of the 56 official national ethnic groups. The lifeline of this northwest corner of Yunnan Province is the Dulong River, which begins on the Tibetan plateau and flows through this valley into Myanmar, where it merges into the Irrawaddy. In Yunnan, the river runs 90 kilometers, or 56 miles.
让中国众多地区焕然一新的那种变化正以光速在独龙江峡谷发生着。作为官方认定的56个民族中规模最小的之一，中国的7000名独龙族人口几乎都分布在此地。这里位于云南省的西北角，依靠独龙江为生。独龙江发源于青藏高原，经由这座峡谷流入缅甸，并在那里汇入伊洛瓦底江。它在云南境内的流长为90公里。
The Gaoligong mountain range has kept the Dulong valley secluded, separating it from the wider valley of the Nu River, where a mosaic of ethnic groups live.
高黎贡山让独龙江峡谷成为了世外桃源，与多民族混居的规模较大的怒江地区分隔开来。
The ramparts of the Gaoligong challenged World War II pilots who flew over the Hump, transporting military goods from Indian bases used by the United States and its allies to Chinese forces battling the Japanese. Planes crashed in the region — the remnants of one are in a museum to the south.
高黎贡山的天然屏障曾令“二战”期间飞越喜马拉雅山脉的飞行员吃过不少苦头。这些飞行员从位于印度的美军及同盟国基地把军事物资送往中国的抗日部队。有多架飞机在此坠毁，其中一架的残骸目前躺在南面的一座博物馆里。
Those peaks no longer cut off this valley, where the Dulong have lived for centuries in hillside villages. It is not just the new road and tunnel that now connect residents here to the outside world. China Mobile has set up 4G cellular data service across much of the valley, and is not shy about advertising this on billboards. One sign on the approach from the mountains to the main administrative village, Kongdang, says, “Take a photo of the beautiful scenery, transmit it to the world.”
独龙族世世代代居住在这座峡谷的山村里。到了今天，河谷不再因崇山峻岭而与世隔绝。不光是新修的公路和隧道让居民与外界取得了联系。中国移动在峡谷的大片区域开通了4G蜂窝数据服务，还不忘在广告牌上大肆宣扬。在从山区前往乡政府所在的孔当村的路上，一块标语牌上写着，“拍下美景，分享给全世界”。
By the words are images of the jade river and of a local woman with intricate indigo tattoos on her face, once a common sight here.
文字旁边的图片展现了碧绿的江水和一名独龙族文面女。在女性的面部文上繁复的刺青曾是当地的一种普遍现象。
The buildings in Kongdang are concrete blocks, and many were built or renovated a few years ago. They are painted orange and have a silhouette of a horned cow’s head, a Dulong totem. A cow statue sits at the town entrance.
孔当村的建筑为混凝土结构，其中许多是几年前修建或翻新的。它们的外墙刷成了橙色，带有独龙族牛头图腾的剪影轮廓。村口还有一尊牛的雕像。
“The changes have been tremendous,” said Yang Yi, an ethnic Han man living in the Nu Valley who has been driving a passenger minivan between the two valleys for a decade.
“变化很大，”住在怒江峡谷的汉人杨毅（音）说。过去十年中，他驾驶一辆载客的小面包车往返在两座峡谷之间。
“Transportation, clothes, daily life — it has all been transformed,” he said. “If you came here a decade ago, you would recognize the Dulong from their colorful clothes. Around three to five years ago, they began wearing modern clothes.”
“交通、服装、日常生活——全变了，”他说。“你要是十年前来，就能从五颜六色的服装上认出独龙人。大概三五年前，他们开始穿现代服装。”
Even President Xi Jinping noted the changes. In January 2015, Mr. Xi met with seven representatives of the Dulong in Kunming, the provincial capital, and spoke of “getting rid of poverty” and “building a moderately well-off society,” according to an official news report.
就连习近平主席也注意到了这些变化。2015年1月，他在云南首府昆明会见了独龙族的七名代表。当地的一篇官方新闻报道称，习主席谈到了“脱贫致富奔小康”。
The valley is still quiet, except for occasional bursts of construction. One paved road runs north from Dulong Town toward the Tibetan border, ending near Mr. Li’s hometown. Another goes to the border with Myanmar and no farther. In the last village is a red church; some Dulong are Christians, though most are animists.
独龙江峡谷依然宁静，只是间或有建筑工程上马。一条公路从独龙江乡通往北面的云南与西藏省界方向，修到了李迎春的家乡附近。另一条公路则通往中缅边境，并未再往缅甸境内延伸。最靠近边境线的村庄有一座红色的教堂。一些独龙人信基督，不过多数人信仰万物有灵。
There is no frontier checkpoint. Along a dirt trail into Myanmar, the border is demarcated by nothing more than a small stone.
这里并没有边境检查站。沿着一条土路即可进入缅甸，只有一块小石碑为界。
With no paved roads leading out of the nearby villages in Myanmar’s Kachin State, ethnic Dulong there walk into this valley to sell herbs and vegetables.
不远处的缅甸克钦邦村庄尚未开通出村的公路。那里的独龙人会步行到独龙江峡谷来贩卖草药和蔬果。
It is tourism that provincial and county officials want to sell to the outside world. Word of the valley’s beauty is trickling out, and international agencies have recognized the Gaoligong Mountains National Nature Reserve as a crucial biosphere. The new road has made visiting easier, even if the nearest airport is a long day’s drive away.
旅游才是省城和县里的官员想要贩卖给外界的东西。关于独龙江峡谷优美景色的消息在慢慢传开，一些国际机构也认定高黎贡山国家自然保护区为重要的生态圈。
One recent afternoon, three ethnic Han backpackers from central China sat in the last village by the Myanmar border. People from outside the valley, many from other Yunnan towns, have come to work in restaurants and other service businesses that are counting on a tourist boom.
不久前的一个下午，来自华中地区的三名汉族背包客在最靠近中缅边境的村落里歇脚。外面的人陆续来到独龙江峡谷从事餐饮业及其他服务行业，他们预期这里的旅游业将会出现大发展。这些人主要来自云南的其他地区。
In the village of Pukawang, just south of the government town, a group of tourists from Shanghai drove up to a boutique riverside hotel, Green Cottage, opened in October by a Beijing entrepreneur — a poverty alleviation project supported by local officials.
在孔当村以南的普卡旺村，一群上海来的游客开车前往河边的精品酒店Green Cottage。这座酒店去年10月开业，得到了当地官方扶贫项目的支持，老板是来自北京的创业人士。
On a slope behind the hotel is the old village. The few remaining residents there sit in wooden homes with fire pits, sometimes drinking homemade corn whiskey.
老村子就坐落在酒店背后的山坡上，还住在那里的居民所剩无几。他们会在带有火坑的木屋里歇息，有时喝着家酿的玉米烈酒。
The hotel occupies half the new village. The village homes and hotel villas were all designed and built together around 2012.
这家酒店占了新村子的一半地方。酒店和村民的家是在2012年前后一齐设计并建造的。
Officials gave families in Pukawang two new homes, one to live in and one to rent to the hotel company for use as guest villas. To each family, the hotel pays 5,000 renminbi per year, under $800. The hotel charges guests $25 to $75 per night for each of the 13 villas.
官方给普卡旺村的每户人家两栋新屋，一栋自住，另一栋则租给酒店做客房。酒店给每户人家每年5000元租金，而这13间独栋客房住一晚的价格则为25到75美元（约合160到480元人民币）。
“Living here is much better than where we were before,” Kong Mingqing, 21, said as he stood by the porch of his new family home behind the hotel.
“这里的居住条件比过去好多了，”21岁的孔明清（音）站在酒店背后的新家门廊旁边说。
Few ethnic Dulong have lived outside the valley, but Mr. Kong is an exception. He left to study vehicle maintenance in Hunan Province, he said, but returned in 2013 because of financial problems.
独龙人没有多少曾在峡谷外生活，但孔先生是个例外。他说自己去湖南省学过汽车修理，不过2013年因为经济原因回到了家乡。
“When I came back, it had already been transformed,” he said. “I don’t think too much about the changes coming. Of course, there will be changes.”
“我回来的时候已经变了，”他说。“变化的事情我没有想太多。反正肯定会有变化。”
In Pukawang, the hotel has tried to employ villagers — part of the official plan to help raise local incomes — but has found that hard to do, said a manager, Yang Yubiao, an ethnic Bai from the Dali area.
在普卡旺村，来自大理的白族酒店经理杨玉彪（音）表示，店里一直希望雇佣村民——这符合官方提出的提升当地收入的计划——但遭遇了困难。
“The villagers said they were tired of the work,” he said. “They left after two to three days.”
“村民说工作劳累无趣，”他说。“做了两三天就走了。”
Three of the hotel’s nine employees are ethnic Dulong from elsewhere in the valley, and the rest are outsiders, Mr. Yang said.
据他说，酒店的九名员工中，有三人是来自峡谷其他地方的独龙人，其他则是外来的。
“Has the poverty alleviation plan succeeded?” he asked. “We’ve raised the awareness of the Dulong people here — how to communicate with outsiders, how to make money, how to live a better life.”
“扶贫计划成不成功？”他自问。“我们提高了这里的独龙人的意识——怎么跟外人交流，怎么赚钱，怎么过上更好的日子。”