On Oct. 26, the website of Global Bond Limited, a Chinese exchange platform for bitcoins, the booming digital currency, suddenly went dead. Then, without warning, GBL’s roughly 500 remaining investors were kicked out of the company’s official QQ group, a social media platform that the company was using for investor relations. By nightfall, the scale of the swindle was made public – 25 million renminbi, or $4.1 million – making it one of the largest bitcoin fraud cases since the currency’s inception four years ago.
10月26日，从事蓬勃发展的虚拟货币比特币交易的中国网站Global Bond Limited(GBL)突然关闭。接着，在毫无征兆的情况下，GBL的大约500名投资者被踢出了该公司的官方QQ群。该公司此前一直使用这个社交媒体平台与投资者交流。到了傍晚，这桩诈骗案的规模被曝光——2500万元人民币，即410万美元——此案因此成为了比特币问世四年以来最大的诈骗案之一。
“We want to find the culprits and make then return our hard-earned, sweat-stained money!” read one post by a victim on Sina Weibo, China’s most popular Twitter-like microblog. “Help us find the criminals!”
在中国非常流行的Twitter式微博服务新浪微博上，一名受害者写道，“我们请求网友帮助，希望能够抓住犯人，还我们血汗钱！”
In hindsight, there were numerous red flags that should have alerted GBL’s bamboozled investors. On May 27, just days after GBL was founded, a popular Chinese bitcoin forum pointed out that the company claimed to be based in Hong Kong, but in fact was using servers located in Beijing. In addition, GBL lacked an official company email address and did not have a license to provide financial services.
案发前出现过多件本应让GBL投资者引起注意的事情。5月27日，GBL成立才几天，中国的一个活跃的比特币论坛指出，虽然这家公司声称其总部在香港，但实际上它使用的服务器在北京。除此之外，GBL也没有官方的公司邮箱地址，以及提供金融服务的执照。
The willingness to invest in GBL despite its shortcomings demonstrates just how popular “crypto-currency” has become in China. In early November, BTC China overtook Mt. Gox and Bistamp to become the largest bitcoin exchange site in the world, handling 34 percent of global bitcoin transactions over the previous seven days, according to data from Bitcoinity.org, a website that tracks bitcoin exchanges.
尽管GBL存在种种疑点，人们仍然义无反顾地投资该公司，这反映出这种“加密货币”在中国是多么受欢迎。根据追踪比特币交易的网站Bitcoinity.org的数据，11月初，BTC China超过了Mt. Gox和Bistamp，一跃成为世界上最大的比特币交易网站，该网站过去七天处理了全球34%的比特币交易。
Bitcoin’s appeal to Chinese investors is manifold. The currency experienced a major spike in value in July shortly after being the subject of overwhelmingly favorable reports on CCTV, China’s state-run television station, and People’s Daily, the main Communist Party newspaper. The currency received a further boost in October when the Chinese search engine Baidu, which commands more than 80 percent of the Chinese search market, announced a plan to accept bitcoins as payment for its online security and firewall services.
比特币对中国投资者的吸引力来自诸多原因。在中国国有的中央电视台以及中共的主要报纸《人民日报》上出现了对比特币充满溢美之词的报道之后，这种货币在7月大幅升值。10月，中国的搜索引擎百度宣布，将接受比特币作为其网络安全和防火墙服务的支付方式，此后，比特币进一步升值。百度在中国的搜索引擎市场占据着80%以上的市场份额。
Last week, a real estate developer in Shanghai declared that it would accept bitcoins as payment for housing units in the city’s Pudong district. The company, Shanda Tiandi, posts bitcoin exchange values daily outside its office. This raises the possibility that China’s high-net-worth investors could try to use bitcoins to circumvent strict investment caps on the property market.
上周，上海的房地产开发商盛大天地（中国）有限公司宣布，将在浦东区接受用比特币支付购房款。该公司还每天在办公楼外张贴比特币的汇率。这让人意识到，中国的高净值投资者有可能可以利用比特币规避房地产市场对投资的严格限制。
Analysts say that there is a deeper and more contentious reason for China’s bitcoin boom. The popularity of the digital currency has been linked to the fact that China’s citizens are unable to trade the renminbi as freely as people in other countries trade their own currencies. Beijing keeps a close grip on the renminbi, concerned about potential disruptions to the economy that could result from sudden outflows or inflows of funds.
分析人士说，比特币在中国的繁荣背后有一个更深层次、更复杂的原因。中国公民不能像其他国家的人交易本国货币那样自由地交易人民币，这一点跟比特币的流行存在关联。中国政府对人民币实施严格的控制，他们担心，突然的资本流入或流出可能导致经济出现动荡。
Should the government decide to crack down on the bitcoin, which some experts say is possible in the aftermath of such a major fraud case, it has the legal grounds to do so. In 2009, the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Culture issued a rule prohibiting the exchange of virtual currency for renminbi, as well as the purchase of real-world goods and services with virtual currency.
一旦要对比特币进行打击——一些专家说，在这样重大的诈骗案发生之后，中国政府很可能这么做——中国政府也是有法律依据的。商务部和文化部在2009年曾联合颁发一项规定，禁止用虚拟货币兑换人民币以及购买商品和服务。
According to sources within the tech industry, the 2009 rule was aimed mainly at companies like Tencent Holdings – the parent company of the above-mentioned QQ platform – that allow online game players to use virtual currency to purchase virtual items. But the backbone of the rule is clear: Virtual currencies must stay out of the real economy.
据科技业内消息人士称，2009年的这项规定主要针对的是腾讯控股这样的公司，这些公司允许网络游戏玩家使用虚拟货币购买虚拟商品——腾讯是上文提到的QQ平台的母公司。但是这项规定的根本原则显而易见：虚拟货币不得流入实体经济。