As China’s once-staid currency suddenly dropped sharply last week, Wall Street began sniffing around for a way to profit.
上周，中国一度稳健的货币突然大幅下跌，于是华尔街开始探索一种获利方式。
A trader on Goldman Sachs’s Hong Kong trading desk sent out a memo to hedge fund clients highlighting one opportunity: Taking advantage of a price difference between China’s onshore renminbi and its offshore version. The currency is not freely tradable, and it was trading in Hong Kong as much as 1.5 percent lower than in China.
在高盛(Goldman Sachs)香港交易室，一名交易员向对冲基金客户发送备忘录，强调一个获利机会的存在：充分利用与在岸人民币和离岸人民币之间价差。人民币不能自由流通，它在香港的交易价格比在内地低1.5%。
That is “assuming you can move money between Hong Kong and the mainland,” the trader wrote, referring to China’s capital controls.
交易员写道，“前提是你可以在香港与内地之间移动资金，”这指的是中国的资本管制。
“Good luck,” he signed off.
“祝你好运”，他最后写道。
In China, there is always a catch, something that even some of the world’s smartest investors are just starting to learn.
在中国，不管什么时候你总能寻找到一丝机会，这是连世界上最聪明的一些投资者也才刚刚开始了解的一点。
The high-flying economy was destined for high-octane growth for years. Until China’s leaders revised their growth target.
人们认定中国腾飞的经济会高速增长很多年。直到中国领导人修改了增长目标。
The bull run was heralded as a new golden age of stocks by the state media. Until it hit a free fall that erased over $3 trillion in market value, volatility that continued on Tuesday.
股市的牛市行情被官方媒体称为新的黄金时代。直到它大幅跳水，令30万亿美元的市值蒸发。本周二，这种波动仍在持续。
The currency for years was set at a relatively stable rate. Until the government devalued the currency, prompting its steepest fall in decades.
多年来，人民币被设定在一个相对稳定的汇率上。直到政府将其贬值，创下数十年来的最大跌幅。
“China really has always been an enigma,” said Troy Gayeski, a senior portfolio manager at SkyBridge Capital, an investment firm that has $9.4 billion invested in hedge funds. “You could be dead right in the thesis and you won’t make money.”
“中国从来都是个谜，”天桥资本(SkyBridge Capital)高级投资组合经理特洛伊·盖亚斯基(Troy Gayeski)说。“你可能在论文里写得完全正确，但你赚不到钱。”天桥资本是一家投资公司，拥有94亿美元的对冲基金投资。
At the start of the year, some of the Wall Street’s best known investors — including Stanley Druckenmiller — sang China’s praises. Mr. Druckenmiller told Bloomberg television in April that he was “very intrigued” by the Chinese stock market’s steep ascent, despite the slowdown in the economy.
今年年初，华尔街最著名的一些投资人唱好中国，斯坦利·德鲁肯米勒(Stanley Druckenmiller)就是其中之一。今年4月他告诉彭博电视台，尽管中国经济在减速，他对中国股市的窜升“非常感兴趣”。
He proclaimed he had seen this movie before. “Like day follows night, six to 12 months down the road you’re out of recession, and you’re into a full-blown recovery,” Mr. Druckenmiller said.
他说自己以前看过这种剧情。“就像黑夜之后会是白昼，6至12个月后你会走出衰退，走上全面复苏之路，”德鲁肯米勒说。
Still, he pared his growth expectations slightly, “because it’s China, and we don’t know the nature of what we’re dealing with here relative to normal, mature developed markets.”
不过，他也为自己的增长预期浇了少许凉水，“那是中国，所以相对于这里正常、成熟的发达市场来说，我们不知道在那里面对的事情具有何种性质。”
Mr. Druckenmiller declined to comment for this article.
德鲁肯米勒拒绝对本文置评。
The Chinese stock market’s rise into the stratosphere, fueled in part by the government’s encouragement, had attracted droves of hedge funds.
中国股市的大涨吸引了大批对冲基金。这种上涨部分上受到了政府鼓励的推动。
In July and August of last year, some China-focused managers increased their exposure to mainland stocks by as much as 50 percent of their entire portfolio, according to Mark W. Yusko, the chief investment officer of Morgan Creek Capital Management. The investment advisory firm, which has $4 billion invested in private equity, hedge funds and venture capital funds, has money in a handful of China-based hedge funds.
据摩根凯瑞资本管理(Morgan Creek Capital Management)首席投资官马克·W·尤斯科(Mark W. Yusko)透露，去年7月和8月，一些专注于中国市场的经理人增加了对内地股市的投资，比例最多占其投资组合的50%。这家在私募股权、对冲基金和风险投资基金上投资已达40亿美元的投资顾问公司，对一些中国的对冲基金进行了投资。
“In the short term, we are buying the dip,” Mr. Yusko said. “One of the crazy things is that — in investing — when things go on sale, people run out the door.”
“短期内，我们在趁低买入，”尤斯科说。“投资领域有一件很荒唐的事，就是大减价的时候大家反而往外跑。”
Betting on China is anything but straightforward. Many like Morgan Creek opted to invest in Chinese hedge funds.
在中国下注可不是直截了当的事。摩根凯瑞等很多公司都选择投资中国的对冲基金。
Investors seeking to buy local equities directly have to get approval from Chinese regulators, by obtaining a qualified foreign institutional investor license. Big players like Goldman Sachs and Stanford University have taken this route. Several years ago, the government began to expand the program, as part of an effort to overhaul its financial system.
那些寻求直接购买当地股票的投资者需要获得中国监管机构的批准，即获得合格境外机构投资者证券投资业务许可证。高盛和斯坦福大学(Stanford University)等大玩家采取这种路线。政府从几年前开始扩大该项目，以此作为金融体系改革举措的一部分。
As the market soared, many hedge funds rode the bull run, raking in profits and posting double-digit returns. At the end of the second quarter, Asia-focused hedge funds had $126.3 billion in capital invested, a record amount of money according to the research firm HFR.
随着股市飙升，很多对冲基金借着牛市前行，攫取大量利润，得到两位数的回报率。据对冲基金研究公司(HFR)透露，到第二季度末，专注于亚洲市场的对冲基金已经投资了创记录的1263亿美元。
The situation took a sharp turn in late June.
这种形势在6月末急转直下。
Chinese markets began to tumble, with stocks 30 percent off their highs at one point. By the end of July, the capital devoted to Asia-focused hedge funds had dropped by $10 billion as investors ran for the exits and losses mounted, according to HFR. Since then, it has continued to be shaky, with stocks in Shanghai down more than 6 percent on Tuesday.
中国股市开始下跌，一度从高点暴跌30%。据HFR透露，到7月末，随着投资者纷纷退出，损失加大，对专注于亚洲的对冲基金的投资已经减少100亿美元。此后，股市继续动荡，上海股市周二下跌超过6%。
Stuck in limbo, hedge fund managers said they were unsure how they fared in the chaos. Stock market regulators suspended more than 30 different trading accounts, including one owned by the brokerage unit of Citadel, the $26 billion firm founded by Kenneth C. Griffin.
进退维谷的对冲基金经理表示，他们不确定如何在这种混乱状态下取得进展。股市监管机构已经对30多个账户采取了限制交易措施，其中包括城堡投资(Citadel)经纪部门持有的一个账户，这家由肯尼斯·C·格里芬(Kenneth C. Griffin)创立的公司价值260亿美元。
Then last week the People’s Bank of China abruptly devalued its currency, veering off script and raising fresh concerns about the economy. The central bank typically sets a daily midpoint for the currency, allowing the renminbi to trade within a narrow band. On Aug. 11, the initial price was roughly 2 percent lower, dropping 4.4 percent by the end of the week. The currency usually moves just a fraction of a percent.
中国人民银行上周突然令人民币贬值，剧情发生急转，引发对中国经济的新担忧。央行通常会设定每日的人民币汇率中间价，允许人民币在狭窄区间内交易。8月11日，人民币汇率开盘下跌将近2%，截至到周末，人民币已经下跌4.4%。而人民币汇率波动幅度通常不到1%。
“You’re seeing a little bit of smoke from the devaluation,” Mr. Gayeski said. “And where there is smoke, there is fire,” he added.
“通过货币贬值我们看到了一点烟雾，”盖亚斯基说。“而有烟雾的地方就有火。”
Despite the recent tumult, the China story continues to enchant Wall Street.
尽管最近出现了动荡，但中国故事依然令华尔街着迷。
The billionaire hedge fund manager Julian H. Robertson announced last week that he was putting money into Yulan Capital Management, a firm that focuses on companies in the greater China region. While Mr. Robertson declined to comment directly on how much he invested, his firm, Tiger Management, typically makes seed investments of $25 million and takes an equity stake.
腰缠万贯的对冲基金经理朱利安·H·罗伯逊(Julian H. Robertson)上周宣布，他将投资玉兰资本管理(Yulan Capital Management)。该公司主要关注大中华区的企业。尽管罗伯逊拒绝就自己的投资金额直接发表评论，但他名下的公司老虎基金(Tiger Management)通常会进行2500万美元的种子投资，以此获得股权。
“Asia, in general, and China, in particular, offer great opportunities for hedge funds, both on the long and short sides,” Mr. Robertson said in an emailed statement.
“亚洲从总体上讲，特别是中国，从长期和短期来看均给对冲基金提供了良机，”罗伯逊在通过电子邮件发布的一则声明中说。
CDIB Capital International Corporation, the private equity arm of China Development Financial, raised $405 million last month for a fund focused on private equity opportunities in China and other Asian markets. It is the fourth Asia-focused fund that the firm has started this year.
上个月，中华开发金控(China Development Financial)旗下从事私募股权业务的中华开发资本国际公司(CDIB Capital International Corporation)，为一支专注于中国和亚洲其他市场的私募机遇的基金，筹集了4.05亿美元。这是该公司今年发起的第四支面向亚洲的基金。
The fund will focus on Chinese consumption, as well as companies with innovative models and advanced manufacturing operations, said Chris Lerner, a Shanghai partner at Eaton Partners, the firm that helped CDIB Capital raise money for the fund. For example, the fund could focus on Taiwan, where the economy is intertwined with China; seven of the top 10 exporters in China are run by Taiwanese entrepreneurs, Mr. Lerner said.
帮助中华开发资本为该基金筹资的伊顿合伙人公司(Eaton Partners)驻上海的合伙人克里斯·勒纳(Chris Lerner)表示，该基金将聚焦中国的消费市场，以及商业模式创新、制造业务先进的企业。比如，它可能会把焦点放在经济与中国相互交织的台湾。勒纳称，中国的十大出口商中，七家都是由台湾企业家经营的。
Wall Street investors are also finding new ways to play the turmoil in China. Penso Advisors, a hedge fund adviser that manages money for investors like pension funds, scoped out currencies that were affected by the renminbi devaluation in an attempt to profit from the shock waves. The firm bet on the Taiwan dollar, which dropped more than the renminbi, said Ari Bergmann, founder of Penso Advisors.
华尔街投资者也在寻找新的途径，试图在动荡的中国市场获利。对冲基金顾问公司彭索顾问(Penso Advisors)考虑过受人民币贬值影响的货币，试图从这波冲击中获利。该公司为养老基金等投资者管理资金。彭索顾问的创始人阿里·伯格曼(Ari Bergmann)说，公司把赌注押在了贬值幅度超过人民币的新台币。
“People want to play China, but it’s much harder to play China because you don’t know the rules and they change all the time,” Mr. Bergmann said, referring to capital controls there.
“人们希望投资中国上，但那要难得多，因为你不了解规则，它们一直在变，”伯格曼说的是中国的资本控制。
“Do you realize how volatile these things are?” he added. “You could lose your shirt.”
“你意识到这些东西有多变化无常了吗？”他接着说。“可能会输得连衣服都不剩。”
Investors ultimately know they cannot ignore China, given its size and influence.
考虑到中国的规模和影响力，说到底，投资者也知道不能忽视中国。
Ray Dalio, the founder of the world’s biggest hedge fund, the $160 billion Bridgewater Associates, recently tempered his enthusiasm for China, saying the firm did not properly anticipate how quickly the stock bubble would deflate.
前不久，全世界最大的对冲基金、管理着1600亿美元的桥水投资公司(Bridgewater Associates)的创始人雷·达利奥(Ray Dalio)克制了自己对中国的热情，称该公司未能正确地预料到股市泡沫破灭的速度。
“Even those who haven’t lost money in stocks will be affected psychologically by events, and those effects will have a depressive effect on economic activity,” Bridgewater said in its July note to investors.
“就连那些没在股市亏钱的人，也会在心理上受到影响，这些影响会对经济活动产生抑制，”桥水公司在7月写给投资者的报告中写道。
Bridgewater remains cautious about the domestic equity markets because the terms and regulatory framework continue to be uncertain, according to a person with direct knowledge of the firm.
据一名知情人士称，桥水公司对国内股市依然持谨慎态度，因为相关条款和监管框架依然不确定。
Yet Mr. Dalio, who has traveled to China for business since 1984, maintains a positive outlook over the longer term. Bridgewater has applied for a foreign investment license from Chinese regulators, so that it can invest directly in the country’s stocks.
但从1984年就开始来中国做生意的达利奥，依然对长期前景持乐观态度。桥水公司已经向中国监管机构申请了外国投资许可证，这样就能直接投资中国的股票了。