HONG KONG — China plans to land an unmanned exploratory rover on the moon by the end of 2013, a step forward in the country’s efforts to master the skills of space travel, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported Wednesday.
香港——官方媒体新华社在周三报道，中国计划在2013年底向月球发射首个无人探测器，这是中国努力掌握太空旅行技术的重要一步。
The launching rocket and other components for the Chang’e-3 lunar probe, named after a goddess in Chinese mythology who flew to the moon, have already been assembled and tested, Xinhua reported, citing a meeting of the Chinese lunar exploration program.
“嫦娥三号”月球探测器得名于中国神话中一个飞上月亮的女神。新华社援引中国探月计划的一次会议记录称，发射火箭和该探测器的其他组件已经组装完成，并已经过测试。
“The Chang’e-3 mission will be our country’s first soft landing on an extraterrestrial body,” said the head of the lunar exploration program, Ma Xingrui, according to Xinhua. “The technology is complicated and extremely difficult, with huge risks and great responsibilities.”
据新华社报道，探月项目负责人马兴瑞说，“‘嫦娥三号’将是中国第一个在地外天体上软着陆的飞行器，技术复杂，风险巨大。”
The mission will build on China’s two previous Chang’e lunar exploration efforts: a craft launched in 2007 that orbited the moon, and another launched in 2010 that did the same and then embarked on deep-space exploration and tests. Chinese space engineers have also speculated about eventually attempting a manned mission to the moon.
这次任务建立在中国前两次‘嫦娥’探月行动的基础之上：2007年，中国将一台航天器发射到月球轨道；2010年，中国又进行了同样的发射，但此次发射的航天器随后进行了外太空探索和测试。此外，中国的航天工程师已经开始设想，最终要尝试载人登月任务。
China sees establishing a long-term presence in space as an important part of its emergence as a global power. This year, it sent three Chinese astronauts into orbit for a 15-day mission that included exercises in docking, an important skill needed to build and maintain a manned space station. China first sent an astronaut into space in 2003. The latest report did not give a specific date for the Chang’e-3 launching.
在中国看来，在太空实现长期存在是确立世界大国地位的重要举措。今年，中国派三名宇航员进入地球轨道执行了15天的任务，其中包括进行对接，这是建立和维护载人空间站所需的重要技术。中国第一次把宇航员送入太空是在2003年。最新的报道并未给出“嫦娥三号”发射的具体日期。
The United States, which landed astronauts on the moon starting in 1969, plans to launch its latest lunar probe on Sept. 6. The unmanned probe is meant to study lunar dust.
美国在1969年即已实现宇航员登月，计划在今年9月6日发射其最新的月球探测器。这台无人探测器的任务是研究月球尘埃。