An 8-year-old girl in Jiangsu Province is the youngest person in China to have received a diagnosis of lung cancer, which a doctor treating her has attributed to air pollution, according to an official news report.
据官方媒体的一篇报道，江苏省一位8岁女童被诊断为中国最小的肺癌患者，一位负责治疗的医生把原因归咎于空气污染。
The report, which circulated widely online Tuesday, said the girl had been living near busy streets and inhaling dirty air. The report was first published on Monday by China News Service and reprinted on the website of People’s Daily. It quoted Dr. Feng Dongjie, of Jiangsu Tumor Hospital in Nanjing, where the girl is being treated, as saying that fine particulate matter, known as PM 2.5, could lead to inflammation once it accrues in the lungs and result in malignant changes.
这篇报道周二在网上广为转载，报道称，这名女童一直住在繁忙的街道旁，呼吸着被污染的空气。这篇报道最先由中国新闻网在周一发出，之后被转载到《人民日报》的网站上。目前这名女孩正在位于南京的江苏省肿瘤医院接受治疗，报道引用了该院医生冯冬杰的话说，被称为PM2.5的细颗粒物会沉积在肺部引起炎症，从而引起一些恶性病变。
The report did not give the girl’s name or more details of her condition or living situation.
该报道没有给出这个女童的姓名以及有关她的病情或生活情况的其他详细内容。
A person who answered the telephone at the hospital on Tuesday afternoon said that Dr. Feng was busy with patients and could not take a call.
周二下午该医院接听电话的人称，冯冬杰大夫正忙着给人看病，不能接听电话。
The news report said cities in Jiangsu, a relatively wealthy province bordering Shanghai, have been shrouded in haze this month. Many factories sit in the Yangtze River Delta area of Jiangsu, and the area is one of the most polluted outside of northern China.
该报道称，江苏省各大地级市这个月都被雾霾笼罩。江苏省位于上海市的周边，相对比较富裕，许多工厂都设在长江三角洲的江苏地区，这里是中国北方以外污染最严重的地区之一。
The report also said lung cancer is the leading form of cancer in China. The fastest growth rate has been among people between 3 and 50 years old, it said. At one hospital in Nanjing, the capital of Jiangsu, lung cancer patients occupy nearly 50 of 120 beds in the thoracic surgery department. Many of the patients are in their 30s and 40s, and most are not thought to have gotten lung cancer from smoking, the report said.
这篇报道还称，肺癌是中国发病率最高的癌症。并称，肺癌患者增长率最快的是50岁以下人群。该报道了解到，江苏省省会城市南京的一家医院胸外科有120张病床，但是肺癌患者就占据了50张。其中有不少患者都是三四十岁的壮劳力人群，这些人大多都不是吸烟引起的病症。
The World Health Organization said last month that it was classifying air pollution and the particulate matter that comprises it as major carcinogens. “Our conclusion is that this is a leading environmental cause of cancer deaths,” Christopher P. Wild, the director of the International Agency for Research on Cancer, which is under the W.H.O., said at a news conference in Geneva.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)上月宣布，已将大气污染以及构成大气污染的颗粒物列为主要致癌物质。世界卫生组织下属的国际癌症研究机构(International Agency for Research on Cancer)主任克里斯托弗·P·维尔德(Christopher P. Wild)在日内瓦的新闻发布会上说，“我们的结论是，大气污染是癌症死亡的一个最主要环境因素。”
Lung cancer is the most common cancer worldwide and accounts for 1.3 million deaths per year. It is the leading cancer killer among men and women in the United States, according to the American Lung Association. It causes more deaths than the next three most common cancers combined, those being colon, breast and prostate cancer.
肺癌是世界上最常见的癌症，每年有130万人死于肺癌。据美国肺脏协会(American Lung Association)的数据，对美国男性和女性来说，肺癌都是头号致命癌症。肺癌造成的死亡人数，比排在其后的其他三种癌症造成的死亡人数加起来还要多，那三种癌症分别是肠癌、乳腺癌和前列腺癌。
Earlier this year, several scientific reports raised alarms about the staggering damage caused by air pollution to the health of Chinese citizens. One report, based on data from the 2010 Global Burden of Disease Study, said that outdoor air pollution contributed to 1.2 million premature deaths in China in 2010, which was nearly 40 percent of the total number of premature deaths around the globe attributed to air pollution. In July, a study published by The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a prominent American journal, concluded that the heavy use of coal-based heating north of the Huai River in China had shortened the lifespans of Chinese living there by an average of five years.
今年早些时候，几份科学报告揭示了空气污染给中国人健康带来的令人震惊的损害，给人们敲响了警钟。其中一份基于《2010年全球疾病负担研究》(2010 Global Burden of Disease Study)数据的报告称，2010年户外空气污染是导致120万中国人过早死亡的原因之一，这一数字几乎占全球因空气污染而过早死亡总人数的40%。7月份，美国主要学术期刊《国家科学院院刊》(Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)发表研究报告称，中国淮河以北地区由于取暖的需要而大量燃烧煤炭，这使得居住在淮河以北的中国人寿命平均缩短5年。
This year, levels of PM 2.5 have become a major source of anxiety for many Chinese, especially those living in cities in northern China, which, because of the prevalence of coal-based industries and power generation, suffer from the worst air pollution in the country. Propaganda officials loosened restrictions on reporting by Chinese news media on air pollution after an outcry last January over the “airpocalypse,” a period when PM 2.5 concentrations in northern China surged to record levels. Parts of Beijing had nearly 1,000 micrograms of PM 2.5 per cubic meter, which is 40 times the exposure level considered safe by the World Health Organization. Last month, the northeastern city of Harbin, which has a population of 11 million, recorded similar levels over several days. The city shut down schools and ordered buses off the roads, where visibility was reduced to a few meters.
今年，PM2.5已经成为让很多中国人担心的一个主要问题，尤其是那些居住在中国北方城市里的居民，由于该地区有很多烧煤的工厂和发电厂，那里的居民呼吸着中国最糟糕的空气。今年1月有段时间，中国北方的PM2.5浓度多次创下历史最高纪录，人们称之为“空气末日”(airpocalypse)到来，表示了强烈的不满，那之后，宣传部门官员放松了对中国媒体报道空气污染情况的限制。最糟的时候，北京部分地区每立方米空气中的PM2.5含量接近过1000毫克，这是世界卫生组织建议的外出安全浓度的40倍。上月，位于东北的哈尔滨市接连几天出现类似程度的空气污染，哈尔滨市人口为1100万。该市关停了学校并下令公交车不要上路，当时的能见度已经降至几米的距离。
At 7 p.m. on Tuesday, as thick smog cloaked the office towers of central Beijing, the United States Embassy recorded PM 2.5 levels of 254, which contributed to an Air Quality Index of 304, rated “hazardous.” Residents across northern China are bracing for pollution to worsen in the coming weeks, as cities turn on their central heating systems. Official news reports said the switching on of Harbin’s system contributed to the spate of hazardous-air days there last month. Most or all of the central heating systems in Beijing buildings are scheduled to be switched on by Nov. 15.
周二下午7点，浓重的雾霾笼罩着北京中心地带的办公大楼，美国大使馆测得的PM2.5值为254，换算为空气质量指数(Air Quality Index)是304，属于“危险”级别。未来几周，随着城市开始启动集中供暖系统，中国北方的空气污染将会变得更加严重。官方媒体报道称，上个月哈尔滨市供暖系统的启动，导致接连几天出现危险级别的空气污染。北京将在11月15日前启动绝大多数或全部大楼的集中供暖系统。