As wealthy Chinese stash more of their fortunes overseas, they’re bidding up the value of everything from Bitcoins and Burgundy to Picassos and pink diamonds.
随着中国富豪将越来越多的财富藏匿到海外，从比特币到勃艮第葡萄酒，从毕加索名作到粉钻，所有东西的价格都被他们抬高了。
And, increasingly, China’s rich are also offshoring their families along with their cash. That’s created a real estate boom in an unlikely corner of the United States: suburban Seattle.
此外，越来越多的中国富豪在转移现金的同时，也将家人转移到了海外。这就给美国一个让人意想不到的地方带来了房市繁荣：西雅图郊区。
Wealthy Chinese have become far and away the biggest foreign buyers of real estate in Seattle in recent years, accounting for up to one-third of $1-million-plus homes sold in certain areas, brokers say. Seattle real estate agents are hiring Mandarin speakers and even opening offices in Beijing. Builders are designing much of their new construction for Chinese buyers.
经纪人表示，近年来，中国富豪无疑已成为西雅图房产市场最大的海外买家。在某些地区，价值超过100万美元（约合人民币614万元）的住宅中，有大约三分之一卖给了中国人。西雅图的房地产经纪公司都在招聘会说普通话的人，甚至在北京开设了办事处。在新楼盘当中，有很多也是建筑商为中国买家量身打造的。
Seattle real estate agents have even added a new term of art to their deal language: “the feng shui contingency.” Before closing on a house, many Chinese buyers are asking to have a feng shui master or consultant approve the house as part of a general inspection. Bad feng shui means no deal. Or, sometimes, some last-minute landscaping.
西雅图的房地产经纪人甚至发明了一个新的术语：“风水意外”(feng shui contingency)。在住宅成交前，许多中国买家都会要求风水先生来看房子，作为验收程序的一部分。风水不好就意味着无法交易，或者有时需要在最后一刻进行景观设计。
“We had a case where a tree was blocking the chi, or energy flow, of the home,” said May Wan, an agent at Berkshire Hathaway Home Services in Bellevue who works with many Chinese buyers. “So it had to be taken out. They planted another one nearby.”
“我们遇到的一个情况是，有棵树挡住了房子的‘气’，或者说能量流动，”贝尔维尤(Bellevue)的伯克希尔·哈撒韦住宅服务公司(Berkshire Hathaway Home Services)的经纪人万梅（May Wan，音译——译注）说，万梅跟许多中国买家打过交道，“所以必须把树移走。他们在附近又种了一棵树。”
The business of relocating China’s uprooted rich is likely to grow in the coming years. A quarter of all real estate sold to foreigners in the United States last year went to Chinese buyers. Now the largest group of foreign buyers in the United States, the Chinese spent $22 billion on American real estate in the 12 months ended in March, according to the National Association of Realtors. That’s up 72 percent from the year-earlier period.
为中国富豪移民安家置业的业务，在未来几年里很可能会增长。去年，在出售给外国买家的美国房产当中，有四分之一是中国人买下的，他们目前已成为美国房产市场中最大的外国买家群体。在今年3月之前的12个月里，他们在美国房产市场中花掉了220亿美元（约合人民币1350亿元），同比增长了72%。上述数据来自美国房地产经纪人协会(National Association of Realtors)。
They lean toward luxury: The median purchase for Chinese buyers is $523,148 — nearly twice the national average. Three-quarters of their purchases are all cash.
追求奢华是他们的消费倾向：中国买家所购房产的价格中值是523148美元（约合人民币321万元）——接近全国平均水平的两倍。其中将近四分之三的交易，都是全款现付。
That’s made Seattle one of the world’s top catch basins for the billions of dollars spilling out of China every year. While foreign money has also been pouring into New York, Los Angeles and London real estate, the impact of the Chinese rich on Seattle is far more concentrated, focused on a few small, upscale suburbs. They’re especially attracted to Medina — home to Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos — and the West Bellevue area. “The first question you often hear from Chinese clients is ‘Where does Bill Gates live?’ “ said Moya Skillman, a broker with Windermere Real Estate.
这已使西雅图成为中国每年数十亿美元外流资金的全球几大汇聚地之一。虽然外国资金一直在涌入纽约、洛杉矶和伦敦的房产市场，但是中国富豪对西雅图的影响要集中得多。这种影响，集中在高消费阶层居住的一片非常小的郊区里。中国富豪对麦迪纳(Medina)——也就是是比尔·盖茨、杰夫·贝索斯(Jeff Bezos)的居住地，以及西贝尔维尤地区(West Bellevue)尤其情有独钟。“你经常听到中国客户问的第一个问题是，‘比尔·盖茨住哪儿？’”温德米尔房地产公司(Windermere Real Estate)的经纪人莫娅·斯基尔曼(Moya Skillman)说。
Brokers and analysts say 20 to 40 percent of $1 million-plus homes sold on the Eastside — a collective term for eastern suburbs of Seattle — were purchased by Chinese buyers.
经纪人和分析师表示，在西雅图东郊(Eastside)售出的价值100万美元以上的房产中，有20%至40%卖给了中国买家。
A $1.1 million listing in West Bellevue recently attracted 24 bidders, virtually all of them Chinese, and the home quickly sold for $1.4 million. Ms. Wan said a $2.5 million lakefront property recently sold with three offers, just days after coming onto the market. The median sales price in Bellevue is up 82 percent since 2011, to $1.37 million, according to sales data.
西贝尔维尤一处挂牌价110万美元（约合人民币675万元）的房产，最近吸引了24名竞购者，几乎全部是中国人。这套房子很快就以140万美元（约合人民币859万元）的价格售出了。万梅说，一处250万美元（约合人民币1534万元）的湖滨房产最近有三名买家竞购，上市后没几天就售出了。销售数据表明，贝尔维尤房产的售价中值比2011年增长了82%，达到137万美元（约合人民币841万元）。
The boom may be just starting. A survey by the Hurun Report, a China-based wealth research firm, found that 64 percent of China’s millionaires have emigrated or plan to emigrate in coming years. They listed their favorite destination as the United States, followed by Canada and Australia. Chinese residents held an estimated $659 billion offshore in 2013. The number is expected to surge to $1.9 trillion by 2018, according to the Boston Consulting Group.
这段繁荣期或许才刚刚开始。中国财富调研公司胡润百富(Hurun Report)开展的一项调查表明，中国有64%的百万富豪已经移居外国，或打算在未来几年内移居。他们把最受青睐的目的地列为美国，紧随其后的是加拿大和澳大利亚。据估计，2013年，中国居民在海外拥有6590亿美元（约合人民币4万亿元）的财产。这一数字有望在2018年飙升到1.9万亿美元（约合人民币12万亿元）。上述数据来源自波士顿咨询集团(Boston Consulting Group)。
Their attraction to Seattle stems from its top schools, clean air, longtime Chinese population and, more recently, a hit movie. The 2013 film “Beijing Meets Seattle” (or “Finding Mr. Right” in English) became one of China’s top-grossing films of all time, telling the story of a pregnant woman who flies to Seattle to find true love and American citizenship for her baby.
富豪们之所以青睐西雅图，是因为西雅图拥有顶尖的学校、新鲜的空气，也是长久以来中国移民的目的地，最近更是因为一部热门电影而受到追捧。2013年上映的电影《北京遇上西雅图》（英文名《Finding Mr. Right》）成为中国有史以来票房收入最高的影片之一，讲述的是一个怀孕的女人坐飞机到西雅图寻找真爱、为孩子争取美国公民身份的故事。
“People my age in China suddenly started talking about Seattle,” said Bangze Wang, a Beijing native who now lives in Seattle.
“在中国，我的同龄人突然都开始谈论起西雅图来了。”现居西雅图的北京人王邦泽（Bangze Wang，音）说。
Mr. Wang, known as James, embodies the new Seattle-China attraction. The son of a successful developer in Beijing, he arrived in Seattle in 2008 with plans to attend the University of Washington and return home to the family business. After graduation, however, he was offered a job at Lochwood-Lozier Custom Homes, one of Seattle’s top builders. Now he’s a project manager, negotiator and all-around cultural liaison between the company and wealthy Chinese buyers.
王邦泽的英文名叫詹姆斯(James)，是被西雅图吸引的新一代中国人。作为北京一位成功开发商的儿子，他于2008年来到西雅图，打算在华盛顿大学(University of Washington)求学，然后回国承接家业。但是毕业后，西雅图顶级建筑商之一Lochwood-Lozier Custom Homes给了他一份工作。如今，他已是一名项目经理和谈判人，也是公司同中国富豪买家之间的全方位文化联络人。
“Seattle was a better opportunity for me than China right now,” Mr. Wang said. “A lot of Chinese families are planning to move here.”
“现在，我在西雅图能得到比在中国更好的机会，”王邦泽说，“很多中国家庭都打算搬到这里来。”
Lochwood-Lozier used to sell its high-end homes to Microsoft millionaires and other local executives. Now it is building 10 new homes aimed mainly at Chinese buyers, with prices of $2.5 million to $5 million.
Lochwood-Lozier曾经将高端住房卖给微软的百万富豪及其他当地高管。如今，该公司正在为中国买家建造十套新的住宅，价位在250至500万美元（约合人民币1534至3068万元）之间。
Todd Lozier, the firm’s president, said Chinese buyers prefer big, modern homes with two kitchens — a small, vented one and a larger display kitchen — along with grand entrances and rooms for extended family. “They like curb appeal,” he said.
公司总裁陶德·洛奇尔(Todd Lozier)说，中国买家喜欢面积大的现代化住宅，而且要带两间厨房——一间较小的通风厨房和一间较大的展示型厨房——加上富丽堂皇的大门和为大家庭准备的房间。“他们喜欢那些从街道上看起来很有吸引力的房子。”他说。