President Barack Obama told Americans in his State of the Union address last month that thanks to increased natural gas production and conservation, the country was closer to energy independence than it had been ”in decades.” That’s not something you’ll be hearing from Xi Jinping, his Chinese counterpart, anytime soon: China’s reliance on imported oil is rising fast, according to a new study by a government research institute.
贝拉克·奥巴马总统上月在他的国情咨文演讲中告诉美国人民，由于天然气产量增加和节能措施，美国现在比过去“几十年”都更接近实现能源自给。你不会从中国国家主席习近平口中听到这句话，不会很快听到。据一家政府研究机构的最新研究，中国对进口石油的依赖正在快速增长。
If nothing is done to curb consumption, by 2030 China will import about 75 percent of its oil, Li Wei, the director of the State Council’s Development Research Center, wrote in a report published on Wednesday. By then China will consume about 800 million tons of oil a year. That’s about 60 percent more than the country used last year. China is set to surpass the United States this year as the biggest oil importer and already imports more than half the oil it consumes, according to figures from the United States Energy Information Agency.
国务院发展研究中心主任李伟在周三发表的一份报告中写道，如果不采取任何措施控制能源消费的话，到2030年中国约75%的石油要靠进口。到那时中国每年要消耗约8亿吨石油，比中国去年消耗的石油总量高出约60%。根据来自美国能源信息署(United States Energy Information Administration)的数据，中国今年将超过美国成为世界上最大的石油进口国，目前中国国内消耗的石油一半以上靠进口。
Decreasing United States reliance on Middle Eastern oil, coupled with rising Chinese dependence, has big geopolitical implications, the Chinese report said. While the United States won’t abandon its oil interests in the Middle East, its efforts to support democratic movements in the region won’t be as constrained as in the past by its need for oil, with the result that ”the international energy markets will become more unstable,” the report said. China should decrease its reliance on oil imports from the Middle East, it said.
中国的报告称，美国减少对中东石油依赖的同时，中国对该地区石油的依赖在增长，这对地缘政治将产生较大的影响。虽然美国不会抛弃其在中东的石油利益，但美国对该地区民主运动的支持将不会像过去那样，受到自己对石油需求影响的制约，结果是“国际能源市场将更加不稳定”，这份报告称，中国应该减少对从中东进口石油的依赖。
Mr. Li said that China could not live with those energy consumption projections and that China needed to focus more on nuclear power, renewable energy and natural gas to limit oil consumption to 550 million tons and raw coal use to 4.5 billion tons a year by 2020. ”If current trends continue, air quality will reach unbearable levels,” Mr. Li wrote in the report.
李伟指出，中国不能承受这样的能源消耗预期，必须将重点转向核能、可再生能源以及天然气，从而在2020年把石油消耗量控制在5.5亿吨、原煤使用量控制在45亿吨。李伟在报告中写道，“如果按照目前的趋势发展下去，大气质量将达到难以承受的程度。”
China is already paying the price for years of breakneck economic growth largely unchecked by an organized environmental movement. A study last year found that in northern China, where coal is used as a heat source and as the main source of electrical power, people live on average five years less than people in southern China. Cities from Harbin in the northeast to Shanghai on the Yangtze River Delta have been beset this winter by hazardous smog.
中国已经在为多年的经济飞速增长付出代价，这些经济增长基本没有受到有组织的环境保护运动的约束。去年的一项研究发现，以煤为主要供暖和发电燃料的中国北方，人的平均寿命要比南方人短五年。冬季以来，从东北的哈尔滨到长江三角洲的上海等许多城市都出现了危险程度的雾霾。
The Chinese government announced measures in September aimed at cleaning up the air in major urban areas near the coast, including the regions around Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. The plan aims to ban the construction of most new coal-fired plants in those regions and to slow the growth in automobile sales.
去年9月，中国政府颁布措施要净化沿海主要大城市的空气，其中包括北京、上海和广州。这些措施旨在基本上禁止在这些城市新建燃煤发电厂，并放缓汽车销售的增长速度。
Yet in China’s poorer interior and western regions, local governments are eager to attract the jobs and investment that come from new power plants. There are hundreds on the drawing boards, many in remote rural areas.
然而，在中国较为贫困的中部和西部地区，地方政府则急切地想吸引建造新发电厂所带来的就业和投资。现有几百家电厂在筹划中，其中很多都在偏远的农村。
Coal – abundant in China – makes up about two-thirds of the country’s energy consumption, while oil accounts for less than a fifth. Coal-fired power plants spew particulate matter into the skies and greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. China, the world’s biggest energy user, accounts for about half of the world’s coal consumption.
中国煤炭资源丰富，全国约三分之二的能源消耗来自煤炭，而石油消耗量只占能源消耗总量的不到五分之一。燃煤发电厂向天空排放大量的颗粒物和温室气体。中国是世界上最大的能源消费国，其煤炭消耗量占全球煤炭消耗总量的约一半。
Chinese planners have proposed building 363 new coal-fueled generating plants with the capacity to generate 558 gigawatts of electricity, according to a report in 2012 by the World Resources Institute, a Washington-based environmental advocacy group. The planned capacity of those new plants is more than half again as much as the entire coal-fired output in the United States, according to U.S. Energy Information Agency figures.
总部在华盛顿的环境倡导组织世界资源研究所(World Resources Institute)在2012年的一份报告中称，中国的规划者提出将新建363座燃煤发电厂，总装机容量为558千兆瓦。从美国能源信息署的数据来看，中国计划修建的这些新电厂的总能力是美国目前所有燃煤发电能力的一半以上。