Eight young Chinese women, most of them university students facing a tight job market, have “named and shamed” dozens of Chinese companies they say are illegally specifying that only men can apply for certain positions. They have mailed their complaints to government human resource departments in the cities of Beijing, Guangzhou and Nanjing, and in Yunnan and Henan Provinces.
八名年轻的中国姑娘公开指责几十家中国企业，称其非法地规定只有男性才能应聘某些特定职位。她们中的大部分人是面临着严峻的就业市场的大学生。她们向北京、广州、南京以及云南和河南这些省市负责人力资源事务的政府部门寄送了投诉信。
Job advertisements in China have long listed a range of desired qualities in applicants, sometimes including height and weight. And the women say that they are aware that some job advertisements request women, especially in the service and handicrafts sectors. But they note that such jobs tend to pay less than the managerial positions that may specify male applicants.
长期以来，中国的招聘广告会列出希望应聘者拥有的各种品质，有时甚至包括体重和身高。上述八名姑娘表示她们知道有些招聘广告要求应聘者须为女性，尤其是服务业和手工业。但她们指出，这种工作的薪资比那些可能会规定应聘者是男性的管理类岗位低。
The women, who call themselves “volunteers” and aim to highlight gender discrimination in China, provided photographs of themselves with dozens of letters of complaint they say they mailed to local government offices on Dec. 26. Most of the companies they list are privately owned and employ at least 500 people.
自称“志愿者”的她们希望能突显中国的性别歧视问题。她们提供了自己手握几十封投诉信的照片。她们表示已在12月26日将这些信寄给了地方政府部门。她们列出的大部分企业是私企，员工人数至少为500人。
Contacted by telephone, two of the companies in Yunnan said they would drop the request for male applicants from their job advertisements.
通过电话联系到的两家云南公司表示，会去掉招聘广告中要求应聘者必须是男性的条款。
Kunming Union Technology Company, the only state-owned enterprise on the women’s list, had advertised several positions for male engineers to maintain credit and debit card machines.
昆明优泰科技有限公司是这些姑娘列出的企业中的唯一一家国有企业。该公司发布了几个工程师职位的招聘广告，要求应聘者为男性。几个职位的工作内容是维护信用卡和借记卡机器。
“This is a job that requires frequent travel and outdoor legwork. You need go to all those shops to install or fix the machines. Women are not quite fit for that,” said a woman who answered the telephone in the company’s human resources department. “But if there are female candidates we would still considering hiring them.”
“这个工作要经常在外面到处跑，你要跑到各个店安装、维护机器。女性不是很适合，”该公司人力资源部门接听电话的一名女子说，“不过如果有女的来应聘，我们也招啊。”
So why say that only men need apply? “If women apply, we are open to them,” she said. “We support free choice.”
那么，为什么说只有男性才能应聘呢？“她们来的话，我们也招的，”她说，“我们支持自由选择。”
Kunming Daqiang Precious Metals Trading Company advertised for a male general manager with financial experience.
昆明达强贵金属贸易有限公司要招一位有金融行业工作经验的男性总经理。
“If woman applies, we’d consider her also,” said a woman answering the telephone.
“有女的来应聘的话，我们也要啊，”接听电话的一名女子说。
So why specify a man?
那为什么规定应聘者须为男性呢？
“What does it matter?” she asked. “I just love you journalists. They can apply. I’ll change the requirement right away.”
“这有什么关系吗？”她问，“我就喜欢你们这些记者。她们可以应聘的，我一会儿就改一下。”
Faced with so many job ads that appear to shut them out, some female university students reason: “If that’s the case, then it’s more important to marry well than to study well,” said one “volunteer” in an emailed statement. She declined to give her real name out of concern for political repercussions over their action.
面对这么多似乎将自己拒之门外的招聘广告，一些女大学生得出的推论是：“这样子的话真是学得好不如嫁得好啦，”其中一名“志愿者”在用电子邮件发出的一份声明中说。因为担心她们的行动会带来政治影响，她不愿透露自己的真实姓名。
“We college students are facing serious employment problems, so we hope our action will breathe life into the laws and regulations that ensure equality of opportunity in employment,” she wrote.
“我们仍然发现在实际中女性找工作难的问题越来越严重。我们希望通过这次的举报活动唤醒相关部门执行政策的意识，还女生一个公平就业的环境，”她写道。
Figures from the central government’s All-China Women’s Federation show that women’s average incomes have fallen relative to men’s since China embarked on market-oriented economic changes in the late-1970s.
来自中央政府下属的中华全国妇女联合会的数据显示，自中国上世纪70年代末开始进行市场经济改革以来，女性平均工资相比男性有所下滑。
Most shocking for the “volunteers,” they said, was the discovery that 80 percent of jobs that specified male applicants did not require physical labor. While many Chinese are aware of the gendered job ads, most believe they are aimed at ensuring that jobs that require physical strength, such as security guard, are filled by men.
这些“志愿者”说，最让她们震惊的是，她们发现，规定应聘者必须为男性的职位中，80%不要求从事体力劳动。尽管许多中国人知道，有些招聘广告对应聘者性别有要求，但大部分人认为，它们是为了确保对体力有要求的岗位，比如保安，能招到男性。