JOHANNESBURG — Years of rapid economic growth across sub-Saharan Africa fueled hopes of a prosperous new era. To many, the world’s poorest continent was finally emerging, with economies that were no longer dependent on the fickle global demand for Africa’s raw resources.
约翰内斯堡——撒哈拉以南非洲国家经济多年来的快速增长让人们对一个繁荣新时代充满了希望。对许多人来说，世界上这个最贫穷的大陆终于开始脱贫，这些国家的经济将不再依赖全球对非洲原材料资源的变化无常的需求。
But as China’s economy slows and its once seemingly insatiable hunger for Africa’s commodities wanes, many African economies are tumbling, quickly.
但是，随着中国经济放缓，中国对非洲大宗商品曾经看似得不到满足的胃口在消失，而许多非洲国家的经济也开始下滑，而且速度颇快。
Since the start of this year, the outlook across the continent has grown grimmer, especially in its two biggest economies, Nigeria and South Africa. Their currencies fell to record lows this month as China, Africa’s biggest trading partner, announced that imports from Africa plummeted nearly 40 percent in 2015.
自今年初起，整个非洲大陆的经济前景开始变得严峻，特别是在非洲两个最大的国家，尼日利亚和南非。随着非洲最大的贸易伙伴中国宣布，该国2015年从非洲的进口额暴跌了近40％，尼日利亚和南非的货币本月已跌到创纪录的低点。
“We can see what drove the growth in Africa when demand goes away,” said Greg Mills, the director of the Brenthurst Foundation, a Johannesburg-based economic research group. “Well, demand has gone away, and it’s not pretty.”
“需求消失时，我们能看到是什么在驱动非洲的经济增长，”总部设在约翰内斯堡的经济研究机构布伦舍斯特基金会(Brenthurst Foundation)的格雷格·米尔斯(Greg Mills)说。“好吧，现在需求消失了，前景可真不怎么样。”
The International Monetary Fund has in recent months sharply cut its projections for the continent. Credit rating agencies have downgraded or lowered their outlook on commodity exporters like Angola, Ghana, Mozambique and Zambia, which were the darlings of international investors until just over a year ago.
国际货币基金组织在最近几个月里多次降低对非洲经济发展前景的预期。信用评级机构也降低了他们对安哥拉、加纳、莫桑比克和赞比亚等大宗商品出口国前景的预期或信用级别，直到刚刚过去的一年前，这些国家还是国际投资者的宠儿。
Many economists expect South Africa, the continent’s most advanced and diversified economy, to slide into a recession this year, a projection disputed by the government. As Africa’s biggest exporter of iron ore to China, South Africa is suffering from a slump in mining, as well as in other sectors like manufacturing and agriculture.
许多经济学家对非洲大陆最先进、最多样化的经济体南非的预测是，该国经济今年会陷入衰退，虽然南非政府对这一预测表示争议。作为非洲向中国供应铁矿石的最大出口国，南非经济正在遭受矿业低迷、以及制造业和农业等其他行业低迷的痛苦。
Like the currencies of many commodity-exporting nations, South Africa’s rand has declined sharply in recent months because of the worldwide fall in prices of raw materials and because of poor government policies. The weak rand will make it more painful for South Africa, which is experiencing the worst drought in a generation and is usually an exporter of agricultural products, to import corn, the nation’s staple.
与许多大宗商品出口国的货币一样，由于全球原材料价格下跌，加上政府的政策不力，南非兰特的汇率在最近几个月里大幅下降。疲软的兰特将让南非的痛苦加深，南非通常是农产品出口国，但目前正在经历这代人所见过的最严重的旱灾，因此需要进口该国家的主食玉米。
Higher food prices could pose a challenge to the government of the nation’s president, Jacob Zuma, who is confronting widening public anger over rising income inequality and whose party, the African National Congress, is expected to face serious challenges in municipal elections this year.
食品价格上涨可能会给该国总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)的政府给带来挑战，祖马正面临着公众对不断加大的收入不平等越来越多的愤怒，他所在的政党，非洲人国民大会，预计在今年的市政选举中将面临严峻的挑战。
Nigeria, Africa’s biggest economy and oil producer, is reeling from the crash in crude prices, at the same time President Muhammadu Buhari tries to deal with Boko Haram, the Islamic extremist group that has long terrorized the nation. With oil accounting for 80 percent of government revenue, the government may also lack the resources to quell potential unrest in the Niger Delta, the source of the country’s oil.
非洲最大的经济体及最大石油生产国尼日利亚，正在遭受原油价格崩溃的打击，同时，总统穆罕穆杜·布哈里(Muhammadu Buhari)在试图应对长期在该国制造恐怖的伊斯兰极端组织博科哈拉姆（Boko Haram，旧译“博科圣地”）。由于石油出口占政府收入的80％，政府也可能缺乏资源来平息尼日尔三角洲地区可能出现的动荡，那是该国的石油产地。
Nigeria’s currency, the naira, collapsed to record lows this month after Nigeria’s central bank placed restrictions on the sale of American dollars to protect its shrinking foreign reserves. The currency fell to about 300 naira to the dollar in Nigeria’s black market, down from about 240 early last month.
尼日利亚央行为了保护其萎缩的外汇储备，对美元出售加以限制之后，尼日利亚货币奈拉本月贬值到创纪录的低点。在尼日利亚的黑市上，汇率已跌至300奈拉兑1美元，比上月初的汇率下降了大约240奈拉。
Weakening currencies will make it harder for Nigeria — and many other African governments — to repay China for loans used to build large infrastructure projects. The tumbling naira and China’s downturn are also reverberating across private businesses, large and small.
货币走低将让尼日利亚以及非洲许多其他国家的政府更难偿还中国用于建设大型基础设施项目的贷款。奈拉的暴跌及中国经济的低迷也影响到大大小小的私有企业。
Happiness Awonegbe, a businessman in Lagos, Nigeria, whose companies import paper, tires and other goods from China, said the restrictions on the dollar had made it difficult for him to place orders with Chinese suppliers. When he can place an order, his Chinese suppliers now take 50 days to fill it instead of 30, apparently because of reductions in their workforce, Mr. Awonegbe said.
尼日利亚拉各斯的商人海辟内斯·阿旺奈格贝(Happiness Awonegbe)经营从中国进口纸张、轮胎和其他商品的公司，他说，对美元的限制已经让他向中国供应商下订单变得困难。当他能够下订单时，他的中国供应商现在需要50天才能供货，而不是以前的30天，显然是因为中国厂家削减了员工，阿旺奈格贝说。
“We are feeling so much this spillover effect,” said Mr. Awonegbe, who employs 50 people. “What happens in China affects Nigeria.”
“我们极大地感受到中国经济的外溢效应，”阿旺奈格贝说，他的公司有50名雇员。“中国发生的事情在影响尼日利亚。”
As the slumping economies have underscored the continent’s growing vulnerability to changes in China, they have quieted much of the heady talk of “Africa rising,” a catchphrase that symbolized the continent’s fortunes. Growing consumer demand and an emerging middle class, while real in many African nations, are insufficient to offset a fall in the continent’s main driver of growth, which remains commodities.
随着这些国家的经济下滑凸显了非洲大陆的增长对中国发生变化的脆弱性，人们也不大再提“非洲崛起”这个一度令人兴奋的话题，那曾是非洲大陆前途的象征。不断增长的消费需求以及新兴的中产阶级，虽然是许多非洲国家的现实存在，但还不足以弥补非洲大陆经济增长主要驱动力的减少，那仍是大宗商品。