HONG KONG — China’s trade surplus rose in August to its highest level this year, in the latest sign of how China has emerged largely unscathed from the currency declines and stock market setbacks seen in many emerging markets this summer.
香港——中国的贸易顺差在8月上升到了今年的最高水平，这是一个最新迹象，表明中国经济在今年夏天几乎毫发未伤，尽管许多新兴市场都出现了汇率下降和股市受挫的情况。
The General Administration of Customs in Beijing said on Sunday that China’s surplus reached $28.52 billion last month, the highest level since December. As foreign-exchange money poured in from around the world to buy Chinese goods, China’s central bank allowed the renminbi to inch up 0.1 percent against the dollar last month.
北京的海关总署周日表示，中国在上个月的顺差达到285.2亿美元（约合1745.4亿元人民币），是自去年12月以来的最高水平。随着世界各地的外汇资金涌入购买中国商品，中国央行在上个月允许人民币兑美元小幅升值0.1%。
“The market turbulence in emerging economies, especially in India and Indonesia, has made Rmb a center of stability,” Liu Li-Gang, the chief economist for greater China at the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, said in a research note, using a common short form of the Chinese currency’s name.
“新兴经济体纷纷出现市场动荡，尤其是印度和印尼，这让人民币成为了稳定的中心，”澳大利亚和新西兰银行集团(Australia and New Zealand Banking Group)大中华区首席经济学家刘立刚在一份研究报告中称。
While the renminbi’s gain last month may have been tiny, it contrasted with declines among most emerging market currencies as investors fretted that U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers will decide at a meeting on Sept. 18 to begin reducing the pace of the American central bank’s asset purchases. That could cause interest rates in the United States to climb further, making investments there more attractive and reducing the appeal of emerging markets.
人民币在上个月的升值可能幅度微小，却也与大多数新兴市场货币的贬值形成了对比，贬值的原因是投资者担心美联储(U.S. Federal Reserve)的政策制定者将在9月18日的会议上决定减慢美国央行的资产购买速度。这可能导致美国利率继续攀升，让在美国投资更为有利可图，减少新兴市场的吸引力。
The losers among emerging market currencies last month tended to be those of countries struggling to attract enough foreign investment to pay for their trade deficits. The biggest loser last month was the Indian rupee, which fell 8.2 percent.
上个月，新兴市场货币当中的输家往往属于那些难以吸引足够外资来补偿贸易赤字的国家。上个月最大的输家是印度卢比，下跌8.2%。
India has been running an especially large trade deficit lately, totaling $108.73 billion in the first seven months of this year, after legal and environmental disputes disrupted iron ore and coal production while growth in manufacturing exports remains lackluster.
法律和环境纠纷扰乱了印度的铁矿石和煤炭生产，而制造业出口的增长仍然乏善可陈，在这样的情况下，印度最近的贸易赤字一直特别高，今年前七个月总计达1087.3亿美元。
China’s exports last month were particularly strong to Southeast Asia, South Korea and Taiwan. But China’s trade surplus also increased because imports were virtually unchanged for the huge category of reprocessing goods — everything from high-end plastics to computer chips that are imported by China for use in products that are then exported.
上个月，中国对东南亚、韩国和台湾地区的出口表现尤为强劲。但是，中国贸易顺差的增加还有一个原因，那就是它在再加工商品这个大类别上的进口量几乎维持不变——中国进口从高端塑料到计算机芯片的各种东西，用来生产出口产品。
The flattening in imports of reprocessing goods reflects a broad move by many multinational companies to shift entire supply chains to mainland China, instead of merely assembling goods there from components that are manufactured all over the world. That trend toward procuring parts in China persists even as a growing number of export factories in low-wage sectors like garments, toys and furniture are moving to other countries, like Bangladesh, Cambodia and Vietnam.
再加工产品进口平稳，反映了众多跨国公司的一种普遍做法，即不再局限于把世界各地制造的组件运到中国组装，而是把整个供应链转移到中国大陆。即便诸如服装、玩具和家具之类的低工资行业出口工厂越来越多地迁往孟加拉国、柬埔寨和越南等其他国家，在中国采购零部件的趋势仍然存在。
Excluding reprocessing goods, China’s other imports grew strongly in August as officials in Beijing have authorized state-controlled banks to step up lending. Louis Kuijs, an economist in the Hong Kong office of the Royal Bank of Scotland, said the import data could indicate “continued robust growth in demand and economic activity in China’s own economy.”
除了再加工产品之外，中国其他类别的进口量在8月增长强劲，因为北京的官员已经授权国有银行增加贷款。苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)香港办事处的经济学家高路易(Louis Kuijs)说，进口数据可能表明，“中国的国内需求和经济活动仍在继续强劲增长。”
But he cautioned that detailed data on domestic economic activity in China during August — including industrial production, investment in fixed assets, retail sales and other categories — is not scheduled for release until Tuesday.
但他提醒，8月中国国内经济活动——包括工业产出、固定资产投资、零售销量和其他类别——详细数据要到本周二才会发布。