It arrived in Central Park before dawn that Sunday, an instant attraction before it was quickly hauled away by a team of parks department workers.
它在周日天亮前就来到了中央公园，立即吸引了人们的目光，之后迅速被一群公园工作人员拖走。
It was a headstone — a full-size, 420-pound hunk of Vermont granite that would blend in nicely in any of New York City’s cemeteries. But it stood out here, in Sheep Meadow, with a name etched on its face of a man very much among the living.
这是一座墓碑——全尺寸，420磅重的一大块佛蒙特花岗岩，放在纽约市任何一座墓地里都会很相称。但它矗立在中央公园的绵羊草原(Sheep Meadow)上，碑上刻着一个绝对还活在人间的男人的名字。
“TRUMP,” read the headstone, and below that, “Donald J.” The date of birth read 1946. The date of death was blank. Below that was carved an epitaph: “Made America Hate Again.”
“TRUMP”，墓碑上写着，下方是“Donald J”，也就是唐纳德·J·特朗普。出生日期为1946年。死亡日期空白。再下面刻着一条墓志铭：“让美国恢复仇恨。”
It was March 27. Passers-by took pictures that made the viral rounds.
那天是3月27日。路人纷纷对着墓碑拍照，然后这些照片就像病毒一样传播开来。
“This is morbid but hilarious,” one commenter posted on Instagram.
“这种做法有点变态，但也挺好笑，”一名评论者在Instagram上表示。
“This made my day lol,” another wrote.
“这东西今儿可把我乐坏了，”另一人写道。
Frank Cassara, 70, a third-generation monument dealer in South Slope, Brooklyn, saw the headstone on the evening news, and said five words. Four of them were printable: “I don’t believe it.”
现年70岁的弗兰克·卡萨拉(Frank Cassara)是布鲁克林南坡的第三代石碑经销商。他在晚间新闻节目中看到了那座墓碑，然后说了五个单词，其中有四个可以见报：“不敢相信。”
His son, Michael, the fourth generation, said four words, three of which were, “What a moron.”
他的儿子、第四代墓碑商迈克尔(Michael)说了四个单词，有三个可以在这里公开，“够蠢的。”
They knew that headstone well. They had made it.
他们知道那座墓碑，因为就是他们做的。
The story came and went, a one-of-a-kind account of a bizarre and elaborate lark. But behind the scenes, the headstone was cause for concern. Could it be a threat on the candidate’s life? Someone had recently sent white powder to Mr. Trump’s son in Manhattan, and in the weeks to come, more would arrive at Trump Tower. The Secret Service and officers with the Police Department’s counterterrorism apparatus began an investigation.
这件事发生了，然后又过去了，让人觉得是一出精心设计的、独一无二的奇异闹剧。但是在事件背后，这座墓碑成为一个引发担忧的理由。它是在对这位候选人的生命发出威胁吗？特朗普身在曼哈顿的儿子此前不久曾收到白色粉末，接下来几周还有更多送达特朗普大厦。特勤局(The Secret Service)和警方反恐机构的人员展开了调查。
They checked the stone for prints — none. They reviewed video from park cameras, and saw a box truck enter the park after midnight. “We saw a group of individuals loading and unloading something off the back of the truck,” Officer Donald Sadowy said. But the license plate was illegible.
他们查看墓碑上有无指纹——没有。他们仔细观看公园摄像头的监控视频，看到有一辆箱式货车在午夜之后开进了公园。“我们看到一群人从后车厢里卸下一些东西，又装上些什么，”警员唐纳德·萨多维(Donald Sadowy)说。但他们无从辨认货车的牌照。
The police checked with Tavern on the Green and other park restaurants — had they received any orders at that hour? No.
警方询问了公园里的绿苑酒廊(Tavern on the Green)及其他一些餐馆——那个时间点有订的东西送到吗？没有。
Several days later, on April 2, a break in the case arrived on the website Gothamist, which published an interview with an anonymous artist claiming responsibility for placing the headstone.
几天后的4月2日，案件出现突破，Gothamist网站发布了对一位匿名艺术家的采访，此人声称对放置墓碑一事负责。
The story included photos of the stone, including one before the engraving, when it was blank in what appeared to be a showroom. It stood among other models on a store’s chipped tile floor.
这篇报道发布了这座墓碑的多张照片，其中一张显示了石碑刻字之前的样子。它的表面还是空白，放置在一个像是陈列室的地方。在地砖有破损的店里，它和其他型号摆放在一起。
How many stores in the city make headstones?
纽约城里有多少家墓碑店呢?
Officer Sadowy and Sgt. David Cuce decided to visit one to ask about the stone’s design in hopes that it was unique to a particular store. They chose one at random, Supreme Memorials, on Fourth Avenue in Brooklyn, in business 65 years. They arrived April 4. The fourth-generation owner met them inside.
警员萨多维和警长戴维·库切(David Cuce)决定去拜访一家店，问问看这块墓碑的设计是不是某家店独有的。他们随机选择了位于布鲁克林第四大道上的Supreme Memorials，一家有65年历史的老店。他们在4月4日登门拜访，这家店的第四代经营者在里面接待了他们。
The officers recognized the showroom and its chipped tile floor.
两位警官认出了那个陈列室，还有它那有破损的地砖。
“We were, honestly, smiling,” Officer Sadowy said. “We were kind of caught off guard.”
“坦率讲，我们当时笑了起来，”萨多维说。“有点出乎意料。”
They showed Michael Cassara the pictures, and he admitted making the stone, at the specifications of a customer months earlier. The young customer was different from the usual grieving customers who arrive to make arrangements for a loved one.
他们给迈克尔·卡萨拉看了照片，后者承认这座墓碑出自他之手，说是按照一位顾客几个月前提出的要求制作的。这名年轻的客户与他通常碰到的悲伤的顾客不同，那些人多是给自己的亲人准备身后事。
“Hipster,” Mr. Cassara said in an interview. “He didn’t give us the details until we met a couple times.”
“是个潮人，”卡萨拉在接受采访时表示。“见了几次面，他才给我们提供详细信息。”
Mr. Cassara said he didn’t flinch when he heard the name the man wanted on the stone. “I deal with a lot of these artists; I make a lot of crazy things,” he said. “I do a lot of movie props, props for plays. ‘I want to make a stone for Michael Jackson.’”
卡萨拉表示，得知那名男子想刻在石碑上的名字后，他没有退缩。“我跟很多这类艺术家打交道；也做很多不可思议的东西，”他说。“我做过不少电影道具、舞台道具。比如，‘我想给迈克尔·杰克逊(Michael Jackson)做个墓碑。’”
The Cassaras declined to say what the stone cost. Another dealer said that sort of stone would run $2,450.
卡萨拉拒绝透露这块墓碑的价格。另一名墓碑商表示，这类石碑价格可以达到2450美元（约合1.6万元人民币）。
Michael Cassara was not charged with any crime.
迈克尔·卡萨拉没受到任何指控。
“He didn’t know where the tombstone was going to go,” Officer Sadowy said.
“他不知道这个墓碑是干嘛用的，”萨多维说。
Mr. Cassara gave the police the customer’s name, and footage from the shop’s videos that showed him loading the finished stone into a box truck with a dolly. Officers called the company whose name was on the truck, and confirmed the same man had rented it and the dolly.
卡萨拉给警方提供了那名客户的名字，还提供了店铺的监控视频，画面显示他正在将完工的墓碑装上一辆带搬运车的箱式货车。两名警官给这辆货车上显示的公司打了电话，确认是同一名男子租了这辆货车和那辆搬运车。
On Monday, the police visited the man, identified as Brian A. Whiteley, 33. He was not charged with a crime. A man answering Mr. Whiteley’s phone on Monday declined to comment.
周一，警方找到了这名男子：33岁的布莱恩·A·怀特利(Brian A. Whiteley)。此人未被指控犯罪。记者在周一拨打了怀特利的电话，接电话的男子拒绝置评。
But in a phone interview on March 30 arranged by a publicist, the artist, who declined to give his name, told Melena Ryzik of The New York Times that he was “trying to remind Donald what type of legacy he’s leaving behind.
不过，3月30日通过一名公关人士的安排接受电话采访时，这名当时拒绝透露名字的艺术家告诉《纽约时报》的梅莱纳·里奇克(Melena Ryzik)，他“试图提醒唐纳德，他在给后世留下什么样的遗产。”
“And also leaving the date of the death open, alluding to the fact that there’s still time to change who he is.”
“将死亡日期空着，也是在暗示他还有时间改变自己。”
The Trump campaign did not address the headstone, and a spokeswoman declined to comment on Monday. There is no reason to believe that Mr. Trump, even though he lives a few blocks away, had seen it in person, and it seems unlikely that he ever will. The stone, carefully placed to be seen by many, is presently in a police storage facility in the Bronx.
特朗普的竞选团队没有回应墓碑事件，一名发言人也在周一拒绝了置评请求。没有理由相信特朗普曾亲眼看到过这座石碑，尽管他就住在几个街区外的地方。看起来他以后也不大可能看到它。这块被人精心放置在中央公园内以便让无数人看到的石碑，目前保存在布朗克斯区的一座警用仓库里。