China’s hospitals are a battleground — not just for the war on illness but also for the one between physicians and their patients.
中国的医院是个战场——不仅是对抗疾病的战场，还是医生和病人开仗的战场。
If that statement seems extreme, consider these data points from state-run medical organizations:
如果说这个说法显得有些极端，不妨看看来自国家医疗机构的这些数据：
Medical staff are attacked by patients or their relatives at a rate of once every two weeks per hospital, according to the China Hospital Association, Chinese news agencies reported.
据中国新闻机构报道，中国医院协会统计表明，每家医院平均每两周就会发生一起病人或病人家属袭击医护人员的事件。
In the last two weeks there have been at least six serious incidents, including in Guangdong Province on Oct. 21, when a Dr. Xiong Xuming was left with a damaged eye and ruptured spleen after being beaten up by a patient’s relatives for refusing to allow them into the intensive care unit, and in Zhejiang Province on Oct. 25, when Dr. Wang Yunjie was stabbed to death by a patient unhappy with his treatment.
过去两周，至少发生了六起恶性事件。其中一起发生在10月21日，广东省医生熊旭明因拒绝让病人亲属进入特护病房而遭殴打，结果眼部受伤，脾脏破裂；另一起发生在10月25日，浙江省医生王云杰被一名对治疗不满的患者刺死。
Since 2002, attacks have risen by an average of nearly 23 percent a year, the China Hospital Management Society said in a paper published in December in Chinese Community Doctors, a medical journal.
中华医院管理学会在12月发表于医学期刊《中国社区医生》的一篇文章中称，自2002年以来，袭击事件的年平均增长率达到了将近23%。
On Thursday, Prime Minister Li Keqiang addressed the issue, in a sign that the Chinese government is seriously concerned by the mounting violence.
中国总理李克强周四提到了这个问题，这表明中国政府非常关心日益增加的暴力事件。
Mr. Li was “paying utmost attention” to the situation and had written “important comments” requesting all government departments to take seriously the problem of conflict between doctors and patients, according to a post on the government’s official Tencent Weibo, or microblog, account. He had ordered government departments to take measures to “protect medical order,” it said.
政府在官方腾讯微博发帖称，李克强对这种状况“十分关注”，并作出“重要批示”，要求所有政府部门重视由医患矛盾引发的问题。他还命令政府部门采取措施，“维护医疗秩序”。
The reasons for the problems in China’s health care system are, by now, well known: a widespread lack of trust in doctors and hospital administrators, the high cost of care, long waiting times and short appointments — and corruption, at every level. A public that lacks basic knowledge about medical problems and outcomes is also a factor, commentators say.
中国医疗系统之所以出现这些问题，原因已经众所周知：人们普遍对医生和医院管理者缺乏信任、医疗费用昂贵、等待时间漫长、预约数量有限——以及遍布各个层级的腐败。评论人士说，公众对医疗问题和医疗结果缺乏基础知识也是原因之一。
But why turn to violence? One reason is illness can bankrupt a family. People who exhaust their savings on care want to see positive results and blame doctors when that’s not possible, commentators say.
但是，人们为什么诉诸暴力？一个原因在于，疾病往往会使一个家庭倾家荡产。评论人员称，耗尽积蓄治病的人希望看到积极的结果，不能如愿就怪罪医生。
While violent incidents in major cities and well-known hospitals receive the greatest attention, the problem is actually more severe in smaller or local hospitals, said Deng Liqiang, the head of the legal department of the Chinese Medical Doctors Association, in an interview with Yanzhao Metropolitan News, based in Shijiazhuang, the capital of Hebei Province.
中国医师协会法律事务部主任邓利强在接受 《燕赵都市报》采访时表示，发生在主要城市及知名医院的暴力事件受到广泛关注，而小型或地方医院的问题实际上更加严重。《燕赵都市报》是河北省会石家庄的报纸。
“It’s not hard to discover that third-tier hospitals and regional medical centers are the disaster ground for medical conflicts,” said Mr. Deng.
邓利强说，“不难发现，三级医院、地区性中心医院成医疗纠纷重灾区。”
Underfunding by the government is a major problem, Mr. Deng said.
邓利强表示，政府投资不足是主要问题。
“In the late 1980s, the state provided about 60 percent of investment in most public hospitals and then it fell from there,” the newspaper quoted him as saying. “After medical reforms, by 2009, they were providing 20 percent, and the remaining 80 percent had to be covered with revenue generated by the hospitals.”
“80年代后期，国家财政投入占大多数公立医院全年需要费用的60%，此后逐年减少，”该报援引邓利强的话说，“到了2009年医改前后，占全部运营成本的20%，也就是说剩下的80%要医院自己创收。 ”
While the government has made few comments on the substance of the problems in the health care system, experts say another complaint of ordinary Chinese — the concentration of good hospitals in big cities and shortage of medical services in local communities — arises because the state is reluctant to decentralize medical care, fearing the rise of poorly trained medical personnel or outright quacks.
虽然政府没有对医保制度的问题实质发表什么意见，但专家表示，普通中国人抱怨的另一个问题——好医院集中在大城市，地方社区缺乏医疗服务——是因为政府担心训练不足的医务人员或庸医增多，由此不愿分散医疗服务。
After the death of Dr. Wang, the Chinese Medical Doctors Association and three other professional groups issued a statement urging the government to better protect medical staff members.
王云杰去世后，中国医师协会及其他三个行业组织发表了一份声明，敦促政府更好地保护医务人员。
“Why are doctors being injured without cease?” it asked. “In order to save lives, doctors and patients should become friends, not enemies,” it said.
声明问道，“为什么伤医事件屡禁不止？”声明称，“为了救治生命，医患双方应成为朋友，而不是敌人。”
Meanwhile, the central government’s National Health and Family Planning Commission has announced emergency measures: Hospitals should assign one security guard per 20 beds, and guards should account for no less than 3 percent of the total medical staff.
与此同时，中央政府国家卫生和计划生育委员会宣布了如下紧急措施：医院应该每20张病床配备1名保安，保安人数不低于在岗医务人员总数的3‰