NDOLA, Zambia — Pulling up in his white Mercedes S.U.V., Liu Youbin shouted over the din of the construction site where Chinese supervisors in red uniforms and helmets watched over a couple of dozen Zambian workers. He vaunted the speed of Chinese construction crews, later handing out a pamphlet that read, “Dollar Hill Shopping Mall, Wholesale City & Amusement Park. Coming Soon!!!”
赞比亚恩多拉——刘友斌（音）停下他白色的奔驰SUV，在建筑工地的嘈杂声中高声呼喊。在工地里，中方监督人员穿戴着红色的制服和安全帽，监督着一群赞比亚工人。他吹嘘完中方建筑团队的速度，又递过来一本小册子。上面写道，“金碧山购物广场(Dollar Hill Shopping Mall)，批发城、游乐场，即将开幕！”
But for all the frenetic activity, Mr. Liu could not hide his pessimism. Plans for the mall here were drafted five years ago, he said, when Zambia’s economy was roaring.
尽管工地一派熙攘，刘友斌也无法隐藏他的悲观情绪。他说，修建这座购物广场的计划五年前就已草拟，当时赞比亚经济还在蒸蒸日上。
“Before, everything was great,” he said. “Now, we lose money every day.”
“从前一切都很好，”他说。“现在，我们每天都在亏损。”
For more than a decade, this mineral-rich nation in Southern Africa offered prime evidence of the continent’s rise, its soaring economy propelled by China’s seemingly insatiable appetite for its copper. Deepening ties brought new roads, hospitals, stadiums, all built by the Chinese, most completed ahead of schedule.
十多年前，非洲南部这个矿产丰富的国家，鲜明地体现了非洲大陆的腾飞。中国对其铜矿仿佛永无休止的渴求，推动了赞比亚经济的高速发展。深化的双边关系带来了新的道路、医院和运动场，全部都由中方修建，大多数都是提前完工。
But China’s economic slowdown has caused Zambia’s economy to tumble. Thousands of jobs have been lost, and the outlook is now so grim that Zambia recently held a national day of prayer to revive its currency, one of the world’s worst performers this year.
但如今，中国经济增速放缓让赞比亚经济也跌了跟头。成千上万的工作岗位不复存在，由于经济前景如此糟糕，赞比亚最近举办了全国性祈祷日，祈求该国货币恢复元气。赞比亚货币今年的表现堪称全世界最糟。
The emergence of a new consumer class across Africa in the past decade, as well as growth and investment in the service sector, fueled hopes of sustained economic expansion on the continent. But the quick downturn in recent months in many of Africa’s fastest-growing economies suggests how much of the impressive growth in the past decade and a half was still driven by a boom in commodities — one supercharged by China.
过去十年里，非洲各国新兴的消费阶级崛起，服务业投资增长，让人深信非洲大陆的经济会持续扩张下去。但最近数月里，非洲增长最快的一些经济体在短时间内遭遇重挫。这表明，过去十年非洲国家受人瞩目的增长，在很大程度仰赖大宗商品行业的繁荣，而这又深受中国影响。
Now, China’s demand for raw materials has cooled, as it tries to shift its economy away from construction, investment and exports to one driven by consumption and services. That transformation is already jolting countries in Africa, from those with diversified economies, like South Africa, to those dependent on a single export, like Zambia or Angola, even as the Chinese government and businesses express long-term commitment to the continent.
如今，中国对原材料的需求已然冷却，中国正试图将经济模式从建筑、投资和出口导向，转向消费和服务。这种转型已经撼动了非洲国家，无论是像南非一样多元化的经济体，还是像赞比亚、安哥拉一样依赖单一出口的国家，即使中国政府和企业都表达了对非洲大陆的长期承诺。
The Chinese president, Xi Jinping, arrived in South Africa on Wednesday for a visit that will include a two-day diplomatic summit meeting, the China-Africa forum, the sixth such event since 2000.
周三，中国国家主席习近平抵达南非访问，他将出席为期两天的外交峰会，即中非合作论坛(China-Africa forum)。这是自2000年以来的第六届。
In a sign that China is moving beyond its focus on Africa’s raw materials — and perhaps in response to critics who say that the benefits to Africa from that focus have been limited — Mr. Xi is expected to announce plans to help bolster industrialization and manufacturing.
根据预期，习近平将宣布一些计划，支持非洲提振工业化和制造业，这一迹象显示，中国已不再仅仅关注非洲的原材料。有观点认为，中国对原材料的关注让非洲受益有限，这些计划或许也是在回应此类批评。
Chinese businesses are still investing in Zambia and elsewhere. South Africa recently said that China had pledged $50 billion to help it industrialize, including the deployment of 200,000 Chinese industrial managers to train locals.
中资企业的投资依然遍布赞比亚等国。南非近期宣称，中国已经承诺投资500亿美元，用于支持南非工业化，包括派遣20万名工业管理人员培训当地人才。
“It’s going to be interesting to see how much capacity, strength or will China has toward Africa during this period,” said Ross Anthony, the acting director of the Center for Chinese Studies at Stellenbosch University in South Africa. “If they play it right and show commitment irrespective of their own domestic issues, that could really cement relations between China and Africa, because there are many people in Africa that are still sitting on the fence.”
“中国在这段时期会向非洲倾注多少能量、实力或决心？观察这一点是很有意思的事，”南非斯坦陵布什大学(Stellenbosch University)中国研究中心代理主任罗斯·安东尼(Ross Anthony)说。“如果中国措施得当，尽管存在国内问题仍笃定坚持，就会极大加强中国和非洲的联系，因为非洲还有很多人持观望态度。”
Here in the Copperbelt of Zambia, two mines have closed in recent weeks, after their owners blamed the low price of copper and Zambia’s worsening electricity shortages for rendering their businesses unprofitable. Six thousand workers have lost their jobs. But the shock was compounded by the fact that one of the mines had a Chinese owner, the China Nonferrous Metals Company.
最近几周，在赞比亚的铜带省(Copperbelt)有两座矿场关门。老板称铜价太低，而且赞比亚电力短缺的问题日趋严重，让他们的事业无法获利，6000名员工因此失业。更惊人的是，其中一家矿场的老板是中国人，属于中国有色矿业集团。
“People expected China, or Chinese companies, to be the last to retrench workers,” said Godfrey Hampwaye, an economic geographer at the University of Zambia and an expert on relations between China and African countries. “People thought China was Africa’s best friend.”
“很多人以为中国，或者说中国企业是最不可能遣散员工的，”赞比亚大学的经济地理学者，也是中非关系的专家高非·翰浦威(Godfrey Hampwaye)表示。“大家觉得中国是非洲最好的朋友。”
Zambia’s president, Edgar Lungu, who faces an election next year, recently spent five days touring the Copperbelt in an attempt to assuage rising anger, but he was often met with jeers.
赞比亚总统埃德加·伦古(Edgar Lungu)明年将面临一场选举，他最近花了5天时间在铜带省巡回视察，试图安抚民众越来越高的怒气，但常常受到民众嘲讽。
China surpassed the United States in 2009 as Africa’s biggest trading partner. But as its demand for commodities has diminished — helping to bring down the worldwide prices of everything from copper, iron ore and oil to coal, diamonds and gold — many other African governments are confronting yawning holes in their budgets.
在2009年，中国超越美国，成为非洲最大的贸易伙伴，但是随着中国对大宗商品需求的下降，其他许多非洲政府也都面临着日益加剧的预算缺口。中国需求的下降，也帮助压低了全世界铜、铁矿、石油、煤炭、钻石、黄金等几乎所有商品的价格。
Some previously high-flying, commodity-dependent countries, like Zambia, Angola and Ghana, have borrowed heavily from international creditors in recent months to raise badly needed cash. With creditors now demanding higher interest rates, the debt load of some African nations has started to increase, a decade after the debts of many African countries were written off.
之前增长飞快、依赖大宗商品出口的国家，如赞比亚、安哥拉、加纳，最近几个月向国际债权人借了许多钱，以筹集它们急需的现金。由于债权人要求提高利息，一些非洲国家的债务负担也开始加剧。许多非洲国家的债务在十年前被豁免后，如今又开始负债。
The continent’s two biggest economies, Nigeria and South Africa, are slowing down, contributing to what the International Monetary Fund said would be 3.75 percent growth in sub-Saharan Africa in 2015, the slowest rate since 2009.
非洲大陆最大的经济体尼日利亚和南非增长速度趋缓，因此国际货币基金组织(IMF)预计，撒哈拉以南非洲地区在2015年的增长率将为3.75%，为2009年以来的最低水平。
In some nations that sell commodities to China — including Angola, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Republic of Congo — authoritarian governments with shrinking resources to quiet political challengers are responding with increasing force.
在一些向中国出口大宗商品的国家，如安哥拉、刚果民主共和国、刚果共和国，专制政府用以平息政治挑战的资源越来越少，于是越来越多地通过武力予以回应。
Here in Zambia, as well as in many other African nations, there are few signs that governments used the profits from the commodities boom to diversify their economies and to make them less dependent on foreign investors and less subject to cycles of boom and bust. Copper, which makes up more than 70 percent of Zambia’s exports, is now worth less than half of its peak price just a few years ago.
在赞比亚，跟非洲许多其他国家一样，几乎没有迹象可以看出，政府曾利用大宗商品繁荣的收益，促进经济多样化，从而不再那么依赖外资，不再那么容易受到经济繁荣与萧条的周期性冲击。铜占赞比亚出口额的70%，现在的铜价跟几年前的高峰相比，只剩不到一半。
“The time for reckoning has come because we have been putting all our eggs in one basket,” said Nkole Chishimba, the president of the Zambia Congress of Trade Unions, the country’s largest labor umbrella organization. “Zambia, since independence in 1964, has talked about the need to diversify beyond copper, and we have just missed another great opportunity to do that.”
“报应来了，因为我们一直把鸡蛋放在同一个篮子里，”该国最大的工会联盟赞比亚工会联合会(Zambia Congress of Trade Unions)主席尼蔻乐·希姆巴 (Nkole Chishimba)说。“赞比亚自1964年独立以来，一直都有经济多样化的讨论，不能只依赖铜矿，但我们刚刚又错失了一个良好机会。”
Zambia could have used revenues from the copper boom to develop other areas, like agriculture and tourism, Mr. Chishimba and others said.
希姆巴和其他人都说，赞比亚原本可以拿铜价高企时的营收来发展其它产业，像是农业和观光业。
Some Chinese here say they will keep doing business as Zambia rides out its current slump.
有些在当地的中国人说，只要赞比亚度过这段低潮，他们会继续在这边做生意。
“Long-term, this place is still a good investment,” said Mr. Liu, 35, the businessman behind the new shopping center here, near the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium, one of two stadiums that China has built in Zambia.
“就长远来看，这个地方还是不错的投资，”35岁的刘友斌说。他在这里投资的一个新购物中心，离利维·姆瓦纳瓦萨体育场(Levy Mwanawasa Stadium)很近，这是中资建设的两座体育场之一。
His family, which is from Fujian Province, founded Mei-Mei Zambia Limited about eight years ago as a manufacturer of concrete blocks, and is expanding its business by building the shopping center.
刘友斌的家族来自福建省，8年前他的家族成立了美美赞比亚有限公司(Mei-Mei Zambia Limited)，生产混凝土块，现在正通过修建购物中心拓展业务。
Many Chinese noted that China’s engagement with Zambia dated back to Mao Zedong, under whom China built a railway linking Zambia and Tanzania in the mid-1970s, a huge project that still earns China good will on the continent.
许多中国人指出，中国跟赞比亚的关系在毛泽东时代就开始了。在70年代中期，他让中国在赞比亚和坦桑尼亚之间建了一条铁路，那是一件规模浩大的工程。一直到现在，非洲民众都因此对中国抱有善意。
That history, and the business opportunities here, still draw Chinese like Yu Qi, 26, a physician from Jiangxi Province. After completing his residency, Mr. Yu said, he joined his large family in Zambia, where he helps manage a copper mine in Chingola, about 100 miles northwest of here.
这样的历史以及当地的商业机会，仍然吸引着像于齐（音）这样的中国人。他来自江西，是一名26岁的医生。他有许多家人在赞比亚，实习结束后，他来到这里，帮忙经营一家位于钦戈拉的铜矿，位于距此地100英里的西北方。
“Zambia’s full of opportunity,” he said.
“赞比亚处处是机会，”他说。
An uncle, he explained, had stayed in Zambia after completing a government project two decades ago. He founded a company that now has several divisions and employs 10 family members, including Mr. Yu, who runs China Copper Mines in Chingola.
他解释道，二十年前，他叔叔完成了一项政府项目后，就留在赞比亚开了一家公司，现在已经有了许多部门，也雇用了10名家庭成员，包括于齐，他现在经营着钦戈拉的中国铜矿有限公司(China Copper Mines)。
One of the mine’s owners, Richard Zhang, 54, began working in the copper industry in Jiangxi Province in 1982, just a few years after China embraced market policies.
其中一间矿场的老板，理查·张(Richard Zhang)，在中国经济市场化几年后的1982年，就开始在江西省从事矿业。
“Twenty or 30 years ago, China was also very poor, even poorer than this stage of Africa,” Mr. Zhang said. “After we bring these new ideas and technology to Africa, maybe after 20 or 30 years, Africa can maybe surpass China. I would be happy to see that.”
“二、三十年前，中国非常穷、比现在的非洲还要穷，”张先生说。“我们将这些新想法、新科技带来非洲之后，可能再过二、三十年，非洲能超越中国。我乐见其成。”
From the early stages of China’s economic modernization, the government ensured that Western and Japanese companies seeking to do business in China, including in the copper industry in Jiangxi, transferred skills and technology.
从中国经济现代化的早期开始，政府就保证，寻求在中国市场做生意的西方或日本企业必须将技术、工艺一并转让，包括在江西的铜矿也是如此。
But Zambia and other African nations appear to have failed to benefit broadly from the commodities boom, whether by not negotiating better terms with Chinese companies, not insisting on technology transfers or not using the revenues from raw materials to diversify their economies.
但是赞比亚和其他非洲国家似乎无法从价格大涨的出口商品中获利，因为它们并没有跟中国公司协调出更好的合作方式、没有坚持技术转移、也没有利用原材料的营收来推动经济多样化。