HONG KONG — China’s biggest Bitcoin exchange was forced to stop accepting deposits in the Chinese currency on Wednesday, sending the price of the virtual money tumbling in one of its biggest markets globally.
香港——周三，中国最大的比特币交易平台被迫停止接受人民币充值，受此影响，这一虚拟货币的价格在全球最大市场之一的中国大幅下跌。
The exchange, BTC China, made the announcement in a post on its verified account on Weibo, China’s Twitter-like messaging service.
比特币中国(BTC China)在其新浪微博上发出了前述通知，新浪微博是中国类似Twitter的讯息平台。
The development comes less than two weeks after China’s central bank and four other government agencies that regulate finance and technology issued a joint announcement banning Chinese financial institutions from dealing in the virtual currency.
此事发生不到两周之前，中国央行及其他四家监管金融和技术的政府机构联合发出声明，禁止中国金融机构参与比特币的交易。
“For reasons we all know, BTC China has had to cease renminbi-account charging functions,” the exchange said in its message, referring to accounts in the Chinese currency. It said that it would continue operating and that deposits denominated in Bitcoins as well as renminbi withdrawals would be unaffected.
比特币中国在通知中称，“由于众所周知的原因，比特币中国不得不暂时停止人民币充值功能。”该通知还称，比特币中国将继续运营，比特币充值和人民币提现不受影响。
By Wednesday evening, the Shanghai-based BTC was quoting Bitcoins at about 2,300 renminbi, or about $380, apiece. That was nearly 40 percent lower than where they had traded on Tuesday and less than half of their peak price of 7,395 renminbi on Dec. 1.
截至周三晚上，位于上海的比特币中国对比特币的报价在2300元人民币左右，比周二交易的比特币价格下跌了近40%，还不到12月1日比特币价格峰值的一半，后者是7395元人民币。
According to Chinese news reports, the People’s Bank of China, the central bank, met Monday with more than 10 of the country’s biggest third-party payment processing companies, ordering them to stop all transactions involving digital currencies. Alibaba’s Alipay service, the country’s biggest processor of online transactions, was among the companies represented at the meeting, according to the reports.
中国新闻报道称，中国央行人民银行周一约谈了10多家规模最大的中国第三方支付公司，命令它们停止所有与虚拟货币有关的交易。中国新闻报道称，中国最大的网上交易平台阿里巴巴旗下的支付宝也参加了这次约谈。
On Dec. 5, the central bank and the four agencies jointly banned dealing in Bitcoin, saying the government was acting to “safeguard the interests and property rights of the public, protect the legal standing of the renminbi, take precautions against the risk of money laundering and maintain financial stability.”
12月5日，央行及前述四家机构联合禁止了比特币交易，称政府这么做是“为保护社会公众的财产权益，保障人民币的法定货币地位，防范洗钱风险，维护金融稳定”。
At the time, a spokesman for the central bank took issue with describing Bitcoin as a currency: “It is not issued by a central monetary authority, it does not have the properties of legal currency and it is not a currency in the real meaning of the word.”
当时，央行的一名发言人反对将比特币说成一种货币，称比特币“不是由货币当局发行，不具有法偿性与强制性等货币属性，并不是真正意义的货币”。
This is not the first time China has cracked down on digital currencies. In 2009, the government banned an online currency developed by Tencent, one of the country’s biggest Internet companies.
这并不是中国首次打压虚拟货币。2009年，中国政府就禁止了腾讯公司开发的网上货币，腾讯是中国最大的互联网公司之一。