This week, the Chinese government issued its most direct statement to date on the legitimacy of Bitcoin, the thus-far-unregulated digital currency that has taken China, the United States and other countries by storm in recent months.Speaking at an economic forum on Wednesday, Yi Gang, the deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China and director of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, said that it would be impossible for China’s central bank to recognize the Bitcoin as a legitimate financial instrument in the near future. But, Mr. Yi added, people are free to participate in the Bitcoin market and he would personally adopt a long-term perspective on the currency.
本周，中国政府对最近几个月在中国、美国和其他国家市场火爆的比特币的合法性做出了迄今为止最直接的声明。中国人民银行副行长兼国家外汇管理局局长易纲周三在一个经济论坛上说，中国人民银行近期不可能承认比特币的合法性。但他补充说普通民众拥有参与比特币市场交易的自由，他个人会保持长期关注。
The statement comes during a week of remarkable turbulence on China’s numerous Bitcoin exchanges. On BTC China, the world’s largest exchange platform for the digital currency, the value of a Bitcoin more than doubled from about 3,000 renminbi, or about $500, on Sunday to nearly 7,000 renminbi on Tuesday. By midday on Wednesday it was back below 4,000 renminbi and on Friday it was hovering around 5,000 renminbi.
这个声明发表在中国许多比特币交易市场发生大动荡的一周里。在世界上最大的比特币交易平台BTC China，该电子货币的价格一周内翻了一倍多，从上周日的约3000元人民币涨到周二的近7000元人民币。到周三中午，比特币价值跌落到4000元以下，周五则一直在5000元上下波动。
Such volatility in large part reflects uncertainty over how the Chinese government — as well as other governments — may decide to regulate the currency. As a result, even minor policy or media signals have triggered wild fluctuations in the currency’s value.
这种波动性在很大程度上反映了一种不确定性：中国政府以及其他国家政府会决定怎样管理这种货币。这种不确定性的结果是，即使很小的政策或媒体信号都会导致比特币币值的巨幅涨落。
Analysts suspect that the currency’s sharp rise on Tuesday came in response to the United States Federal Reserve chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s letter to the United States Congress, in which he wrote that financial innovations like Bitcoin “may hold long-term promise, particularly if the innovations promote a faster, more secure and more efficient payment system.”
分析人士猜测，比特币币值在周二大幅上涨是对美联储(United States Federal Reserve)主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)写给美国国会的一封信的回应，他在信中说，像比特币这样的金融创新“也许拥有长远的可能性，尤其是如果这种创新能促进更快、更安全以及更有效的支付系统的话。”
Favorable media coverage on CCTV, China’s state-run broadcaster, has also pushed up the currency’s value. A segment that aired on Oct. 28 about the world’s first Bitcoin ATM, in Vancouver, precipitated a rise on China’s Bitcoin exchanges.
中国国家电视台中央电视台对比特币的正面报道也推动了其币值的上升。10月28日该电视台有一段关于温哥华的世界上第一个比特币ATM的报道，引起了中国比特币交易的增涨。
Although Mr. Yi’s remarks were the most direct government statement to date, his words are far from conclusive. He stopped short of calling Bitcoin illegal and he explicitly stated that ordinary Chinese citizens retain the freedom to trade in Bitcoins, given its status as a form of online trading.
虽然易纲的评论是迄今为止政府对比特币发表的最直接的声明，但他的措辞远不具有决定性。他没有宣布比特币不合法，而且他明确表示中国普通民众拥有比特币的交易权，赋予其一种网上交易形式的身份。
At the same time, China has historically maintained very strict control over its currency, the renminbi, and some experts speculate that the government could still outlaw or restrict Bitcoin if it grows too large or proves socially or financially destabilizing.
同时，中国在历史上一直严格控制着国家货币人民币。一些专家推测，如果比特币增长过大，或者给社会或金融带来不稳定的影响，政府仍可能会认定比特币非法或对其进行限制。
According to industry analysts, the government already has the legal grounds to crack down on Bitcoin, if it chooses. In 2009, the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Culture jointly issued rules prohibiting both the use of virtual currency to purchase actual goods and services and the exchange of virtual currency for renminbi.
行业分析人士说，政府已经具有取缔比特币的法律依据，如果政府想要这么做的话。2009年，商务部和文化部曾联合发布规定，禁止用虚拟货币购买实物，或用虚拟货币兑换人民币。