BEIJING — China has announced a sweeping plan to manage the flow of rural residents into cities, promising to promote urbanization but also to solve some of the drastic side effects of this great uprooting.
北京——中国宣布了一项旨在对进城农村人口进行管控的大规模规划，承诺要在提高城镇化水平的同时，解决这项庞大迁移事业的一些强烈负面影响。
The plan — the country’s first attempt at broadly coordinating one of the greatest migrations in history — foresees 100 million more people moving to China’s cities by 2020, while providing better access to schools and hospitals for 100 million former farmers already living in cities but currently denied many basic services. Underpinning these projections would be government spending to build roads, railways, hospitals, schools and housing.
该规划是中国首次尝试从宏观角度协调一项规模居史上前列的移民进程，它预计会在2020年之前让1亿人迁入各个城镇，同时还要让已经迁入城市的1亿前农民更好地享受教育和医疗服务，这些人目前还无法享受到很多的基础服务。为了给这些项目提供支持，政府将增加公路、铁路、医院、学校和住房建设方面的开支。
Formally announced on Sunday, the plan has been one of the most contentious projects in recent years. Originally scheduled to be announced last year, it backs away from more radical proposals, which predicted even more farmers leaving the land for cities. But the plan is still ambitious, with 30 chapters, covering topics that include Internet access, building standards, environmental protection and public safety.
于周日正式公布的这项规划是近年来最有争议的计划之一。它原定于去年宣布，如今则去除了一些较为激进的提议；原来的版本预计会有更多的农民离开农村，进入城市。尽管如此，这项共有30章的规划仍然十分宏伟，覆盖了互联网接入、建筑标准、环境保护和公共安全等多项内容。
“These are big numbers, but they’re not the crazy numbers that came out last year,” said Tom Miller, a Beijing-based analyst and author of “China’s Urban Billion,” a look at what China’s cities may look like in 2030. “They’re being more realistic than they might have.”
“这些都是大数字，但还不是去年出台的那种疯狂数字，”驻北京分析师、《中国十亿城民》(China’s Urban Billion)一书的作者汤姆·米勒(Tom Miller)说。这本书展望了中国城市在2030年的模样。“就他们而言，这已经算是比较现实了。”
The plan floated last year by the government’s powerful planning commission called for 70 percent of the country’s nearly 1.4 billion population to be living in cities by 2025. The current plan aims for 60 percent by 2020. It also emphasizes what has been a relatively new phenomenon over the past decade: the state’s role in deciding who should move from rural land and where they should live.
去年，中国政府的实权部门计划委员会放出了这一规划的风声，要求在2025年之前把中国将近14亿人口中的70%迁入城市。目前的规划目标是在2020年之前达到60%。规划还强调了过去10年一个相对较新的现象：国家在决定哪些人应该迁出农村以及迁往何处的过程中所扮演的角色。
The need for urbanization, the plan asserts, is part of a broader move to shift China’s structure away from growth based on exports and investment, and toward domestic demand. Many economists believe that urbanites consume more than farmers, who tend to be more self-sufficient.
规划称，城镇化是一个整体举措的一部分，目的是改变中国依赖出口和投资的增长方式，使经济增长向依赖国内消费转型。许多经济学家认为，城市人口的消费量比农村人口大，因为前者通常拥有更好的经济条件。
But the plan also sees urbanization as part of China’s future. It states that “urbanization is modernization” and “urbanization is an inevitable requirement for promoting social progress,” noting that every developed country is urbanized and industrialized.
但是，规划也认为城镇化是中国的前途所在。规划称“城镇化是现代化的必由之路”、“城镇化是促进社会全面进步的必然要求”。规划还指出，所有发达国家都已实现城镇化和工业化。
The plan strongly emphasizes the improvement of quality of life for new city residents through increased government spending. It also calls for improvement in the quality of building construction, which has sometimes been criticized by new residents.
规划着重强调，要通过增加政府开支的方式来改善新城市居民的生活质量。规划还呼吁改进建筑质量，这一点时或引发新居民的批评。
“I think it’s good because it touches on problems created by urbanization in the past,” said Yi Peng, the director of the Urbanization Research Center of the International Finance Forum, a Chinese think tank. “Public services have been lacking and urbanization has not been rational.”
“我认为这个规划很好，因为它提到了过去的城镇化引发的一些问题，”中国智库国际金融论坛城镇化研究中心主任易鹏说。“我国一直缺少公共服务，城镇化也不理性。”
The most ambitious part of the urbanization plan is to better integrate former rural residents who are currently living in cities — many of them for years and even decades. Currently, nearly 54 percent of Chinese live in cities, but only 36 percent are registered as urban residents. That disparity — representing about 250 million people — are former farmers living in cities but not permitted to register as city dwellers. That means they cannot send their children to local schools, use hospitals or enjoy other benefits of city life.
这项城镇化规划中最具雄心的任务是让已迁入城镇的农村居民更好地融入城镇，其中很多人已经在城镇居住了多年，甚至是数十年。目前有将近54%的中国人居住在城镇，但却只有36%的中国人拥有城镇户口。剩下的城镇居民——大约2.5亿人——都是没有获得城镇户口的进城农民。这意味着他们无法将孩子送到当地学校学习，无法就医，也无法享有城镇生活的其他福利。
The plan calls for integrating 100 million of these second-class citizens, so that by 2020, 60 percent of Chinese should be living in cities, with 45 percent enjoying full urban status, the plan states.
前述城镇化规划要求让1亿二等市民融入城镇。规划称，这样一来，截至2020年，中国城镇居民占总人口的比例应该达到60%，拥有城镇户口的居民则占总人口的45%。
To make this possible, the government is promising huge infrastructure spending. Every city that exceeds 200,000 in population is to be linked by rail and expressways, while every city exceeding 500,000 is to have high-speed rail service.
为了做到这一点，政府承诺投入巨资进行基础设施建设。每一个人口超过20万的城市都将开通铁路和高速公路，每一个人口超过50万的城市都将开通高铁。
Separately, state television reported on Sunday night that 4.75 million people living in shantytowns would have their housing improved this year. These areas are often villages that have been swallowed up by cities, and at times have been flashpoints of violence between municipal officials who want to demolish them and residents unwilling to move. It is unclear whether the plan will significantly raise relocation compensation for the residents of these areas.
此外，官方电视台于周日晚间报道称，475万棚户区居民的居住条件将在今年得到改善。棚户区通常都是被城镇吞并的村庄，时或成为市政官员与居民发生暴力冲突的导火索，前者想要拆除棚户区，后者则不愿搬迁。目前尚不清楚，该规划是否将大幅提高棚户区居民的拆迁补偿。