HONG KONG — On a tour of central Henan Province in May of last year, China’s president, Xi Jinping, first raised the notion of the economy adjusting to a “new normal.” Eight months later, with the economy growing at its slowest pace in more than two decades, it is increasingly clear what this adjustment will mean for China.
香港——去年5月在河南考察时，中国国家主席习近平首次提出经济要适应“新常态”。八个月后，随着经济增长速度跌至二十多年来的最低，这种调节对中国将意味着什么越来越清晰。
The leadership in Beijing will tolerate slower growth in order to reduce the economy’s reliance on credit-fueled investment, replacing it with domestic demand as a key driver of growth.
北京的领导层将容忍增长的进一步放缓，从而减轻经济对由信贷支撑的投资的依赖，并代之以内需，使后者成为关键的增长动力。
The effect of this slowdown on global markets has been drastic. China is the world’s biggest consumer of coal, iron ore and copper — and the prices of all three have in recent weeks fallen to their lowest levels in more than five years.
这种放缓对全球市场影响重大。中国是全世界最大的煤、铁矿石和铜消耗国。最近几周，这三种商品的价格全部跌至五年多以来的最低水平。
Less certain, however, is what effect this new normal will have for foreign investors in China. Huge changes now underway are prompting a redefinition of China’s traditional role as the world’s workshop and a magnet for foreign investment.
但这种新常态对在华外国投资者有何影响却不那么确定。眼下出现的巨大变化，正在使中国作为全球工厂和吸引外国投资的磁石的角色发生转变。
“For the last 10 to 15 years there was a certain vector to how China was developing, which was export-driven growth; multinationals all coming here; a government that was very encouraging of letting them get business done,” Nitin Nohria, dean of the Harvard Business School, said in an interview last week during a visit to Hong Kong. “There seems to be a shift, and people are trying to understand what this shift implies.”
“在过去10到15年里，中国发展一个向度是恒定的，那就是出口拉动增长；跨国企业纷沓而至；政府非常鼓励让它们做成生意，”哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)院长尼廷·诺里亚(Nitin Nohria)上周到访香港时接受采访说。“现在似乎发生了转变，人们正在尝试理解这种转变意味着什么。”
The change is being reflected in investment flows to and from China. Last week, the Ministry of Commerce said the growth of foreign direct investment into the country slowed last year, rising just 1.7 percent from 2013 to $119.6 billion. By contrast, outward investment from China surged 14.1 percent to $102.9 billion.
这种转变体现在流入和流出中国的投资上。中国商务部上周称，与2013年相比，去年外来直接投资1195.6亿美元（约合7363.7亿元人民币），仅提高1.7%，速度放缓。相比之下，中国对外投资1029亿美元，增幅高达14.1%。
Rising wages in China are eroding the country’s competitiveness, and leaders in many provinces and cities are actively discouraging low value added industry from setting up in their jurisdictions. As a result, many manufacturers — both foreign and Chinese — have been shifting production to other low cost countries, notably Vietnam, Cambodia and now, Myanmar. In 2013, foreign direct investment into the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations exceeded such investment into China for the first time.
不断上涨的工资水平削弱了中国的竞争力，并且许多省市的领导正在大力劝阻低附加值产业在各自的辖区内设厂。因此，许多制造商——既有外国的，也有中国的——一直在将生产环节向低成本国家转移，尤其是越南、柬埔寨和现在的缅甸。2013年，流入东南亚国家联盟(Association of Southeast Asian Nations)十个成员国的外来直接投资，首次超过了流入中国的投资。
At the same time, China’s exports and imports are growing slower, and their makeup is shifting in notable ways. China remains the world’s biggest merchandise trading nation, but the importance of its processing trade — bringing in materials and components for assembly and export — has declined in recent years.
与此同时，中国进出口的增长也在放缓，并且其组成也在发生显著的转变。中国依然是全世界最大的商品贸易国，但近年来，其加工贸易——进口原料和零部件，进行组装，然后再出口——的重要性有所下降。
Li-gang Liu, the chief economist for China at the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, notes that in 2014, China’s ordinary imports for final consumption accounted for around 57 percent of total imports, and were more than double the amount of its processing imports by value.
澳新银行(Australia and New Zealand Banking Group)大中华区首席经济师刘利刚(Li-Gang Liu)指出，在2014年的进口总额中，中国用于最终消费的普通进口所占比例约为57%，是加工进口额的两倍多。
“There is still huge room for Chinese consumption to grow rapidly,” Mr. Liu wrote Thursday in a research note. He added, for example, that China’s private consumption represents only 36 percent of its gross domestic product, compared with the world’s average of 60 percent.
“中国的消费仍然有快速增长的巨大空间，”刘利刚周四在一份研究报告中写道。例如，他指出，中国的私人消费仅占GDP的36%，相比之下，全世界的平均水平为60%。
The risk is that, while China weans itself of credit-driven investment in infrastructure and state-dominated industries, private consumption will not expand quickly enough to pick up the slack.
风险在于，中国对基础设施领域和国家主导产业，逐渐减少靠信贷驱动的投资之时，私人消费的扩张速度不足以冲抵投资下滑带来的影响。
A sharp downturn in overall growth could ensue.
因此，中国的整体经济增速可能会大幅下降。
While “new normal” became the buzzword of Chinese officialdom in 2014, almost as frequently mentioned was the idea of a “triple transition.” Simon Cox, a strategist in Hong Kong at BNY Mellon Investment Management, notes that this triple transition consists of a slowdown in the growth rate, structural reforms to give market forces a greater role in the economy, and finding ways to digest the excess capacity that was created by overinvestment in the past five years.
“新常态”已经成为2014年中国官方的流行语，就像“三重转型”一样被频繁提及。纽约银行梅隆资产管理公司(BNY Mellon Investment Management)驻香港的策略师郭世明(Simon Cox)指出，“三重转型”包括增速放缓，让市场力量在经济中扮演更大角色的结构改革，以及设法消化过去五年的过度投资造成的过剩产能。
“The only danger is that the leadership’s preoccupation with this triple transition in 2015 complicates their efforts to shore up demand in the economy, which remains unnecessarily weak,” Mr. Cox wrote Friday in a research report. “China should accept the new normal of slower trend growth. But in doing so, it should not fall prey to a new subnormal of below-trend growth.”
“唯一的风险是，中国领导人2015年把精力主要放在三重转型上，这让他们提振内需的计划变得更加困难，目前中国经济的内需仍然过于疲弱，”郭世明周五在一份研究报告中写道。“中国应该接受趋势增长率放缓的新常态。但与此同时，也不应该落入低于趋势增长率的非正常状态。”
The danger of growing too slowly, given the high levels of credit in some pockets of China’s economy, is that companies or even local-level governments could have trouble paying their debts and be pushed into default.
考虑到中国经济一些领域的信贷水平较高，增长过于缓慢的风险在于，企业乃至地方政府可能会难以偿还债务，进而陷入违约。
One such precarious sector is real estate. After a multiyear boom, housing prices in China have been declining in recent months as inventories of unsold homes rise. That is putting pressure on some property developers.
房地产就是这样一个岌岌可危的领域。在多年的繁荣之后，随着房屋存量的增长，中国的房价最近几个月一直在下降。这为一些房地产开发商带来了压力。
This month following the departure of a number of top executives, Kaisa Group, a developer in southern China, defaulted on interest payments on dollar-denominated bonds it had sold to foreign investors. The company has also announced that a number of projects in the southern city of Shenzhen had been suspended by local officials, and that a number of its mainland China bank accounts had been frozen by court orders.
本月，在一些公司高管离职之后，中国南方的房地产开发商佳兆业集团(Kaisa Group)，在对出售给外国投资者的美元计价债券支付利息时，出现了违约。这家公司还宣布，中国南部深圳市的多个项目已被当地官员叫停，其在内地的多个银行账户已被法院冻结。