CANBERRA, Australia — The Australian government on Wednesday approved the sale of one of the nation's largest construction companies, John Holland Group Pty. Ltd., to state-owned giant China Communications Construction Company International Holding Ltd.
澳大利亚堪培拉——澳大利亚政府周三批准了中国国企巨头中交国际（香港）控股有限公司收购该国最大的建筑公司之一John Holland Group Pty. Ltd.的交易。
Treasurer Joe Hockey said he approved the sale under foreign investment rules because it was in Australia's national interests.
澳大利亚财政部长乔·霍基(Joe Hockey)表示，他是按照外国投资规定批准这笔交易的，因为它符合澳大利亚的国家利益。
Leighton Holdings Ltd. entered a binding agreement with CCCC, the world's fourth-largest construction company by revenue, in December to sell John Holland for approximately 1.15 billion Australian dollars ($880 million), subject to adjustments.
去年12月，礼顿控股有限公司(Leighton Holdings Ltd.)与全世界收入排名第四的建筑公司中国交通建设股份有限公司达成了一项有约束力的协议，同意以大约11.5亿澳元（约合55亿元人民币）的价格出售John Holland，价格可调整。
The deal required approval of the Foreign Investment Review Board, or FIRB, that ensures that such foreign takeovers are in Australia's interests.
这笔交易需要得到澳大利亚外国投资审查委员会（Foreign Investment Review Board，简称FIRB）的批准。该委员会的工作是确保这类外国收购符合澳大利亚的利益。
"The government welcomes foreign investment where it is not contrary to our national interest," Hockey said in a statement.
“政府欢迎不违反我们国家利益的外国投资，”霍基在一则声明中说。
Hockey said he had sought advice on issues including the World Bank debarring CCCC from contracts until 2017 over fraudulent practices used in a road-building project in the Philippines in 2009.
霍基表示，他已就一些问题征询过意见，包括2009年中国交通因为在菲律宾的一个道路建设项目中有欺诈行为，而被世界银行(World Bank)禁止在2017年以前承接相关合同。
"As a result, appropriate arrangements have been put in place to mitigate any concerns in relation to this issue and I am satisfied that this investment is not contrary to our national interest," Hockey said, without elaborating.
“因此，已经落实了妥善的安排，以缓解一切有关这个问题的担忧，并且这项投资不违背我们的国家利益，我对此感到满意，”霍基说。但他未做详细阐述。
CCCC is listed on the Hong Kong and Shanghai stock exchanges and has a presence in more than 80 countries.
中国交通已在香港和上海的证券交易所上市，业务遍及80多个国家。
CCCC was surprised by how long the approval process took, having told the Hong Kong stock exchange that the deal would be finalized by the end of March.
中国交通对审批程序如此漫长感到惊讶。该公司曾对香港的证券交易所表示，交易将在3月底之前敲定。