A Chinese billionaire accused of taking part in a complex scheme to bribe United Nations officials will be allowed to post bail and enter home detention after a ruling on Friday.
一名中国亿万富翁被控参与了一宗复杂的联合国官员贿赂案。周五，法院裁定批准其保释，并软禁家中。
Magistrate Judge Kevin N. Fox of Federal District Court in Manhattan ordered that the billionaire, Ng Lap Seng, may be released on a $50 million personal recognizance bond secured by $20 million in cash and an apartment he owns on East 47th Street, near the United Nations.
曼哈顿联邦地区法院的准法官凯文·N·福克斯(Kevin N. Fox)裁定，富翁吴立胜(Ng Lap Seng)以5千万保释且承诺如期出庭，并以2千万美元现金及他在联合国总部附近东47街的一套公寓作抵押。
The judge added that Mr. Ng, a 68-year-old real estate magnate, must surrender all passports, be subject to GPS monitoring and be guarded by private security, which he will pay for.
法官还命令68岁的地产巨头吴立胜交出所有护照、接受GPS监控追踪、由私人保安看守，且保安费用由他支付。
The hearing that preceded the order was something of a referendum on how the wealth of a defendant who presents a flight risk should affect detention decisions.
作出裁定的这次庭审，旨在断定有畏罪潜逃风险的被告人的富有程度，是否影响对他的羁押裁定。
In a letter sent the previous day to Judge Fox, a prosecutor, Daniel C. Richenthal, had cited factors — including assets of nearly $2 billon, the bribery of foreign officials, a lack of ties to the United States and international connections — that made Mr. Ng someone who could flee New York. He also argued that defendants who are not eligible for release from federal detention “should not be able to buy their way out by constructing a private jail.”
在判决前一天交给福克斯法官的信中，检察官丹尼尔·C·里辰塔尔(Daniel C. Richenthal)列出了许多因素来证明，吴立胜有能力逃出纽约，包括他将近20亿美元的资产、对外国官员行贿、在美国没什么联系、而在国外有广泛的人脉。里辰塔尔还认为，不符合联邦监禁机构保释条件的人，“不应当允许他们通过花钱修建私人牢房，来换取出狱。”
The defense lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, countered that such a determination would be tantamount to penalizing someone for being rich. He noted in his own letter that defendants were often deemed to be flight risks precisely because of their monetary resources. He added that under his proposal, Mr. Ng would be sequestered inside a $3.8 million apartment, “subject to home detention with electronic monitoring and 24-hour physical surveillance by armed guards.”
辩护律师本杰明·布拉夫曼(Benjamin Brafman)反驳道，这样的决定无异于惩罚富人。他在自己的信中指出，被告往往正是因为财力雄厚，才被认为有高潜逃风险。他补充道，按照他的提议，吴立胜将被隔离于一所价值380万美元的公寓里，“处于软禁状态并受到电子监控，并且24小时受武装警卫看管。”
Mr. Brafman made the case that the court had previously approved similar arrangements for defendants like Bernard L. Madoff and Marc S. Dreier. But Mr. Richenthal rejected those comparisons on Friday, noting that Mr. Ng is not a United States citizen and has shown that he is quite willing to violate the laws of the land.
布拉夫曼指出，法院之前就曾对伯纳德·L·麦道夫(Bernard L. Madoff)和马克·S·德莱尔(Marc S.Dreier)等被告批准过类似的安排。但上周五，里辰塔尔否认本案可以与之类比，他指出吴立胜不是美国公民，而且他的表现反映出他对美国法律不屑一顾。
“He stays in this country a couple of days a year to commit the offenses with which he is charged and then returns to China,” he told the judge.
“他一年里会在这个国家待几天，犯下他被控告的罪名，然后就返回中国，”里辰塔尔告诉法官。
At times, the exchanges became pointed. The two sides bickered over how opulent Mr. Ng’s apartment was and whether it was a proper setting for home detention.
交锋时而会变得很尖锐。双方就吴立胜的公寓有多么奢华，以及那里是不是软禁的恰当场所而争得不可开交。
Mr. Brafman told the judge that while commodious, Mr. Ng’s 47th Street apartment was hardly one that would be envied by fellow billionaires.
布拉夫曼告诉法官，吴立胜在47街的公寓虽然宽敞，却没有豪华到会被其他富豪羡慕。
“Mr. Madoff’s apartment makes our apartment look like a bungalow,” he said. “Do they want us to go out and buy a hovel?”
“我们的房子跟麦道夫的公寓比起来就像是一间平房，”他说。“难道他们要我们出去买一间小破屋？”
Mr. Brafman said the guards would work for a company, Guidepost Solutions, run by Bart M. Schwartz, who was once chief of the criminal division in the Southern District of New York under Rudolph W. Giuliani, then the United States attorney in Manhattan.
布拉夫曼说，警卫将由Guidepost Solutions派出。该公司由巴特·M·施瓦茨(Bart M. Schwartz)领导，他曾在鲁道夫·W·朱利安尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)任纽约市长期间，担任纽约州南区的刑事案件负责人，之后又在曼哈顿担任联邦检察官。
The guards — current or former agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Secret Service, Immigration and Customs Enforcement or the Department of Homeland Security — would watch Mr. Ng in eight-hour shifts, he said. Guards would earn $100 an hour, he added, and supervisors would earn $125 an hour “plus applicable sales tax.”
他说，监控吴立胜的警卫都是现任或前任的联邦调查局、美国特勤局、移民及海关执法局或国土安全部的特工，他们会轮班监控吴立胜，八小时换一次班。他补充说，警卫每小时赚100美元，而主管每小时赚125美元，“再加上适用的消费税”。
Mr. Richenthal listed his reservations connected to what he termed a “fake prison.” If Mr. Ng escaped, would he face jailbreak charges? Would assaulting a private guard carry the same penalty as assaulting a federal officer?
里辰塔尔对他所形容的“假监狱”列出了自己的保留意见：如果吴立胜逃脱，他会面临越狱控诉吗？殴打私人警卫会与袭击联邦官员受到相同的惩罚吗？
“Are these security guards consenting to use deadly force against Mr. Ng?” he asked. “Would that even be permitted?”
“这些保安员同意对吴立胜使用致命武力吗？”他问。“甚至允许使用致命武力吗？”
In the end, Judge Fox was unswayed by the government’s arguments, telling lawyers: “I believe that there are conditions that can be fashioned to permit the defendant to be at liberty.”
最终，福克斯法官对政府的论点不为所动，并告诉律师：“我认为，我们可以提出一些条件，从而允许被告人处于自由状态。”
Mr. Brafman said that his client would need at least until Monday to satisfy the conditions of Judge Fox’s order. Mr. Ng has been held without bail since his arrest on Sept. 19 on a conspiracy charge; he was accused of lying to Customs and Border Protection officials about the purpose of the cash he brought into the country. That case was later dismissed.
布拉夫曼说，他的当事人至少要等到周一才可以满足福克斯法官的裁决中提出的条件。自从吴立胜于9月19日因同谋罪指控而被捕至今，一直不得保释；他被控欺骗美国海关及边境保护局官员，就携现金入境的目的撒谎。该案后来撤销了指控。