TIANJIN, China — In northern China, near the Mongolian border, radioactively contaminated leaks from two decades of rare earth refining have been slowly trickling underground toward the Yellow River, a crucial water source for 150 million people.
中国天津——在靠近蒙古国边境的中国北部，持续了20年的稀土精炼生产所泄漏出来的放射性有毒物质，一直在缓慢地渗入地下，逼近黄河，而这条河是1.5亿人口的重要水源。
In Jiangxi province in south-central China, the national government has seized control of rare earth mining districts from provincial officials after finding widespread illegal strip-mining of rare earth metals.
在中国中南部的江西省，中央政府已经从地方政府手中收回了对稀土采矿区的控制权，因为他们发现稀土金属的非法露天开采在当地已经泛滥成灾。
And in Guangdong province in southeastern China, regulators are struggling to repair rice fields and streams destroyed by powerful acids and other runoff from open-pit rare earth mines that are often run by violent organized crime syndicates.
在东南部的广东省，监管机构正在想尽办法修复稻田和溪流。它们遭到了露天稀土开采场的强酸等径流的破坏，而这些开采场又往往是由有组织犯罪暴力团伙经营的。
Communities scattered across China face heavy environmental damage that accumulated through two decades of nearly unregulated rare earth mining and refining. While the Chinese government has begun spending billions of dollars to clean up the damage, the environmental impact is becoming an international trade issue, with a World Trade Organization panel in Geneva expected to issue a crucial draft report on Wednesday.
散布中国各地的居民面临着严重的环境破坏，几乎未受过监管的稀土开采和提炼活动在过去20年里日积月累，造成了今天的局面。中国政府已开始斥资数十亿美元治理这些活动造成的破坏，但随着日内瓦的世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization，简称WTO)专家组将于本周三发出一份至关重要的报告草稿，环境影响正成为一个国际贸易问题。
Arriving three years after an international tempest over the rare earths trade and 19 months after the World Trade Organization litigation was actually filed, the coming decision may not make a big difference to the rare earth industry itself, industry executives and officials said. But the case does seem to have had the unintended effect of helping to goad China into a major environmental cleanup.
业内高管和官员表示，即将出炉的裁决也许不会让稀土行业本身发生大的变化，它面世时，稀土贸易引发的国际风波已经过去三年了，向WTO实际提起诉讼也已过去19个月之久。不过，此案似乎确实具备意外的功效，那就是有助于激励中国开展一场重要的环保治理行动。
China, the world’s dominant producer of rare earth metals, quietly and unilaterally imposed taxes and annual tonnage limits on its rare earth exports seven years ago. It then gradually raised the taxes and lowered the tonnage limits in subsequent years, slowly throttling supplies to overseas manufacturers.
中国是全球主要的稀土金属生产国。七年前，中国悄无声息地单方面对稀土出口征税，并强行实施了年出口吨数限制。而后中国在接下来的几年里逐渐提高了相关税率，降低了吨数限制，慢慢减少了对海外生产商的稀土供应。
China contends that these export restrictions are needed to protect its environment. The United States, the European Union and Japan have challenged China’s taxes and quotas at the World Trade Organization. They note that China has done little to limit rare earth consumption within its borders.
中国争辩，为了保护环境，有必要实施这些出口限制措施。美国、欧盟和日本已在WTO就中国的征税和配额措施提起申诉。他们指出，中国几乎没采取任何措施限制境内的稀土消耗。
The rare earth case “will be a landmark case in terms of both export restrictions and the environment,” said James Bacchus, the former two-term chairman of the W.T.O. appeals tribunal in Geneva.
曾在日内瓦WTO上诉法庭担任过两任主席的詹姆斯·巴克斯(James Bacchus)说，这起稀土案“将成为出口限制和环境方面的一个里程碑式的案例”。
China has made ample supplies available to manufacturers within China that produce crucial components for a host of products like laptop computers, compact fluorescent bulbs, wind turbines and electric cars. Some Western and Japanese companies have moved factories to China to make sure that they have access to rare earths.
中国国内的制造商能够获得大量稀土，从而为笔记本电脑、节能灯泡、风力发电机和电动车等众多产品制造重要的零件。一些西方和日本的公司已经把工厂搬到中国，以确保能获得稀土。
The W.T.O. panel faces some of the trickiest issues in international trade. Environmentalists have been wary of the trade organization ever since its predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, rejected an American ban in the early 1990s on the import of tuna caught in ways that are hazardous to dolphins.
WTO专家组要面对的是国际贸易中最棘手的一些问题。WTO的前身关税及贸易总协定组织(General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade)于上世纪90年代初否决了美国对金枪鱼的进口禁令，而这些金枪鱼的捕捞方式使海豚面临危险。从那以后，环保人士就一直对该组织心存疑虑。
The Chinese export restrictions have become less important over the last several years for two reasons. Alternative rare earth mines have gone into production in the United States and Australia, reducing China’s share of global production to 85 percent, from 95 percent three years ago. And companies have become much more efficient about economizing on rare earths, especially the costliest ones, the so-called heavy rare earths like dysprosium.
基于两个原因，在过去几年里，中国的出口限制已变得不那么重要了。在美国和澳大利亚已经有其他的稀土矿开始生产，中国在全球稀土产出中所占的份额，由此从三年前的95%降到了现在的85%。一些公司提高了使用稀土的效率，尤其是最昂贵的稀土——也就是所谓的重稀土——比如镝。
The change is visible in the supply warehouse here of one of the world’s few factories producing rare earth powders for use in very powerful magnets. Whether in smartphones or missiles, the most advanced applications for rare earths tend to involve the manufacture of miniature but crucial components using the powerful magnetic qualities of rare earths.
这种变化可以通过在天津的供给仓库看出来。这里有全球屈指可数的几家生产稀土粉末的工厂，这种粉末是在磁性极强的磁铁中要用到的。不管是智能手机还是导弹，对稀土最尖端的应用，往往与利用稀土强大的磁性来生产零件有关。这些零件体积虽小，却至关重要。
The rare earth complex here in Tianjin is owned by Molycorp, an American company, although the factory buys its processed rare earths almost entirely from Chinese refineries. The warehouse has neatly arranged stacks of barrels of rare earths. The bright blue barrels holding neodymium, another highly magnetic rare earth, are only two feet high and a little more than a foot in diameter, but weigh more than 550 pounds because of the material’s extraordinary density.
天津的这座稀土厂，其所有者是美国莫利矿业(Molycorp)，不过它购买的加工稀土几乎全部来自中国精炼厂。库房里整整齐齐地摆放了大量的稀土罐。盛放着钕的明蓝色罐子只有两英尺（约合0.6米）高，直径为一英尺多一点，可是却重达550多磅（约合250公斤），这是因为该物质的密度异乎寻常。钕也是一种高磁性的稀土。
Sitting by itself on a wooden pallet is a single gray can of dysprosium, a rare earth that sells for $243 per pound. Dysprosium prices soared as high as $1,135 per pound two years ago in a speculative bubble that followed China’s imposition of an unannounced embargo on rare earth shipments to Japan from September to November 2010, during a territorial dispute.
在一个木托盘上单独放着一个装着镝的灰罐子。这种稀土的售价为每磅243美元（约合1478元人民币）。从2010年9月到11月，中国对发往日本的稀土实施了秘而不宣的禁运，当时两国之间正发生领土争端。禁运之后镝的价格于两年前飙升到每磅1135美元的高位，产生了可观的价格泡沫。
That spike in prices has prompted companies to economize in use of rare earths. Molycorp now mixes half as much dysprosium into its magnetic powders as it did even a year ago. Many of its customers have decided that their magnets do not need dysprosium, which is added in trace quantities to help rare earth magnets retain their magnetism at temperatures above the boiling point of water.
价格的突然上涨已经促使公司开始节约使用稀土。莫利矿业现在混入磁性粉末中的镝用量，甚至只有一年前用量的一半。该公司的许多客户已经决定，不需要在他们的磁铁中加入镝。原本，加入微量的镝，是为了帮助稀土磁铁在高于液态水沸点的温度下维持磁性。
“People in Sichuan think they would die without their chili peppers, but they can live without them,” said Chen Kerong, the production director at the Molycorp factory here. “People love dysprosium, but they can live without it, too.”
莫利矿业天津工厂的生产主管陈克荣（音译）说，“四川人认为，没有辣椒的话他们活不下去，可是没有辣椒，他们一样能活。人们喜爱镝，可是没有它也一样能活。”
The global oil industry has similarly begun using less lanthanum, another rare earth, during oil refining. Only 1.5 percent of the latest catalyst formulations for oil refining are now lanthanum, down from 4 or 5 percent three years ago.
全球石油行业同样也开始在炼油过程中使用更少的镧。它也是一种稀土。在最新的炼油催化剂配方中，镧的比例从三年前的4%或5%，降到了目前的1.5%。
But the case before the World Trade Organization appears to have made a difference already by prompting a broad environmental cleanup. In a white paper issued in June last year, China’s cabinet described at length the environmental harm caused by the rare earth industry, an admission that although embarrassing for Beijing may have buttressed its case at the W.T.O. that the rare earth industry is a dirty business for which export restrictions are justified. “Excessive rare earth mining has resulted in landslides, clogged rivers, environmental pollution emergencies and even major accidents and disasters, causing great damage to people’s safety and health and the ecological environment,” the white paper said.
不过，提交给WTO的案子，似乎已经产生了影响，推动了大范围的环境治理行动。在去年6月公布的一份白皮书中，中国政府详细阐述了稀土工业给环境造成的危害。虽然这种对问题的承认会让北京难堪，但或许也支持了它在WTO案中的辩护理由，即稀土业是一个污染严重的行业，因此实施出口限制的理由是充分的。白皮书说，“一些地方因为稀土的过度开采，还造成山体滑坡、河道堵塞、突发性环境污染事件，甚至造成重大事故灾难，给公众的生命健康和生态环境带来重大损失。”
Chinese officials have repeatedly denied that their newfound concerns for the environmental consequences of rare earth mining and refining are driven by a desire to help avoid defeat at the W.T.O., although the cleanup could help on that.
中国官员反复强调，他们新近对稀土采矿和精炼的环境影响十分关注，背后的推动力并不是希望能因此避免在WTO的落败，尽管环境治理可能会对此案有所帮助。
Whole villages between the city of Baotou and the Yellow River in Inner Mongolia have been evacuated and resettled to apartment towers elsewhere after reports of high cancer rates and other health problems associated with the numerous rare earth refineries there.
包头市与黄河内蒙古段之间的村镇均已整体搬迁到异地的公寓楼。之前有报道称，那里的癌症发病率很高，还存在许多与大批稀土精炼厂有关的健康问题。
The most hazardous refineries are those that crack the tight chemical bonds that tie rare earths found in mineral ores to a variety of hazardous materials, notably radioactive thorium. Many tons of extremely concentrated sulfuric acid are used to break the chemical bonds. Then the valuable rare earth metals, which are not radioactive themselves, can be purified. But a hazardous stew of toxic chemicals and low-level radioactive waste is left behind. Most of that waste has been dumped into the world’s largest mine tailings pond, which covers four square miles near the Yellow River on the western outskirts of Baotou.
最有害的精炼厂是打破化学键的工厂。矿石中的稀土与多种有害物质之间形成了紧密的化学键，尤其是与放射性的钍结合在一起。打破这种化学键需要用到数以吨计浓度极高的硫酸。于是，宝贵的稀土金属得以提纯，它们本身并无放射性，但剩下的却是包含有毒化学品和低水平放射性废物的浓稠液。这种废液多数被倾倒至世界上最大的尾矿库中，整个库占地4平方英里（约合10平方公里）的，位于临近黄河的包头西郊。
Built in the 1950s under Mao Zedong, the tailings pond lacks a liner to prevent the leaking of radioactive waste and toxins into the groundwater, where they have been gradually seeping toward the Yellow River. There is no evidence that the waste and toxins have reached the river, but the Chinese government plans to spend hundreds of millions of dollars pumping out as much contaminated groundwater as possible and pumping enormous quantities of fresh water into the earth to dilute what is left before it reaches the Yellow River.
这个尾矿库兴建于上世纪50年代毛泽东治下，缺乏阻止放射性废物及毒素进入地下水的防护层。通过地下水，这些物质又缓慢地往黄河渗透。没有证据表明，这里的废物和毒素已进入黄河，不过中国政府计划耗资数亿美元，抽出尽可能多的受污染的地下水，并向土壤中注入大量的淡水来稀释剩余物质，以免污染黄河。
On orders from Beijing, state-controlled enterprises have dismantled Baotou refineries and rebuilt them at an enormous mining complex at Bayan Obo in the Gobi Desert, which mines about half the world’s rare earths. Chinese state-controlled media have reported that tens of thousands of goats and other livestock there have died and many baby goats have been born severely deformed, possibly because of radioactive contamination from the rare earth industry.
遵照中央政府的指令，一些国有企业关闭了包头的精炼厂，在戈壁滩上庞大的白云鄂博矿区重建。这里贡献了世界上约一半的稀土开采量。根据中国官方媒体的报道，有数万只羊等牲畜死亡，还有许多小羊出生时严重畸形，而可能的原因就是稀土业的放射性污染。
Located in an arid area nearly uninhabited except for mine workers, the refineries have been rebuilt there with extensive wastewater treatment facilities, according to industry officials in Beijing.
矿区坐落在干旱地区，除了矿工之外，几乎杳无人烟。北京的行业官员表示，这里重建的精炼厂配有大规模的废水处理设施。
The W.T.O. panel will send its confidential draft report on Wednesday to China and the countries that brought the case, which will then be allowed to suggest changes before the final decision is made on Nov. 21.
WTO专家组将于本周三向中国及提起仲裁的国家分发保密的报告草稿。11月21日最终裁决做出前，相关国家可以提出修改意见。
Whoever loses the decision is likely to appeal to the trade organization’s appellate body — two-thirds of decisions are appealed, and sometimes even winners have appealed to obtain better-worded verdicts. Each party has six weeks to decide whether to appeal after the decision is published in mid-December, and then the appellate body has another three months to rule.
无论哪一方输，都很可能会向WTO的上诉机构提起上诉。WTO三分之二的裁决面临上诉，有时赢家也会上诉，以获得更为有利的判决。12月中旬判决公布后，各方均有六周时间来决定是否上诉，然后上诉机构会有三个月的时间来做出裁决。
The betting in most of the rare earth industry and among international trade lawyers is that China will lose the W.T.O. case and will comply by removing its export quotas and export duties. But these changes may not make a big difference, because China has spent the past few years forcing mergers so that 99 percent of the country’s legally mined rare earths are produced by just 10 companies, all with varying degrees of state control.
稀土业的多数人及国际贸易律师界普遍猜想，中国将在这起WTO争端中落败，并将遵照判决取消出口配额和出口关税。然而，这些转变或许不会产生重大影响，因为中国在过去几年间推行产业合并，结果，目前99%合法开采的中国稀土都是在区区10家企业生产的，而它们或多或少都受国家控制。
But if they push prices up too quickly, they could face competition from Molycorp, which has reopened a mine in the California desert, and from Lynas of Australia, which mines rare earths in Western Australia and refines and processes them in Malaysia.
不过，如果它们过快推高价格，就可能面临来自美国莫利矿业和澳大利亚的莱纳斯(Lynas)的竞争。前者在加利福尼亚州的沙漠地区重开了一处矿场，后者则在西澳大利亚州开采稀土并在马来西亚进行精炼和加工。
Market forces may have more of an effect on China’s ability to control the market in the coming years than export restrictions, said Dudley Kingsnorth, a former rare earths mining executive who is now a business professor and the director of the Critical Materials Initiative at Curtin University in Perth, Australia.
曾任稀土开采业高管的达德利·金斯诺思(Dudley Kingsnorth)认为，在未来几年里，比起出口限制，市场力量对中国未来控制市场的能力或许将产生更大的影响。金斯诺思目前是商科教授，在澳大利亚珀斯的科廷大学(Curtin University)负责核心材料项目(Critical Materials Initiative)。
“If it were decided five years ago,” he said, “it might have had an impact.”
“如果五年前判决了，倒可能会有影响，”他说。