TOKYO — China sent fighter jets into its newly declared air defense zone Thursday on what state media called the country’s first air patrol since it claimed control of the airspace. The announcement came hours after Japan and South Korea sent their own military planes into the airspace over the East China Sea, testing China’s resolve to enforce its declaration.
东京——本周四，中国向新宣告划设的防空识别区派遣了战机，中国官方媒体称，这是中国自宣布控制识别区空域以来的首次空中巡逻行动。前述消息出炉几小时以前，日本和韩国把自己的军机派入了东海防空识别区，以此测试中国兑现防空识别区宣言的决心。
The announcement of the flights came just days after unarmed American B-52 bombers flew through the same zone in defiance of China. Beijing later said that it had monitored the American bombers but had chosen not to take action even though the planes did not tell the Chinese they were coming, as the government now demands.
中方发布飞行公告的几天之前，两架未携带武器的美国B-52轰炸机刚刚无视中国的规定飞越了同一空域。中方后来表示，已对美国轰炸机进行监视，但却决定不采取任何行动，尽管美方飞机无视中国政府目前的要求，没有通知中国它们要来。
On Thursday, the top Japanese government spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said that the Chinese had not been notified of the Japanese flights, and reported that China did not scramble its fighter jets to intercept the planes.
周四，日本政府首席发言人、内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)表示，日本的飞行没有通知中方。他还通报说，中国没有紧急起飞战机拦截日方飞机。
The South Korean government announced that it, too, had flown aircraft through the zone, on Wednesday, without alerting Beijing, a flight Chinese officials said they had monitored. The South Korean plane was a surveillance aircraft, the South Korean government said.
韩国政府宣布，本周三，本国也在未知会中方的情况下派出飞机飞越了识别区。中国官员说，他们监视了韩方的此次飞行。韩国政府表示，韩国派出的是一架侦察机。
Like Japan, South Korea claims sovereignty over territory in the zone, but enjoys warmer ties with Beijing than Japan does.
和日本一样，韩国声称对识别区内的部分领土拥有主权，不过，韩国与中国的关系好于日本与中国的关系。
Japan did not specify how many patrols had flown through the zone or when the flights were made.
日本没有具体说明在该区域进行了多少次巡逻飞行，也没有说明这些飞行是什么时候进行的。
Japan, the United States and South Korea have all refused to recognize the air zone, which includes the airspace above disputed islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in Chinese. The islands are administered by Japan, but also claimed by China.
日本、美国和韩国都拒绝承认前述防空识别区。该识别区包括一些争议岛屿上方的空域。这些岛屿在日本被叫做尖阁诸岛，在中国被叫做钓鱼岛，目前处于日本的管辖之下，但中国也声称拥有其主权。
When China declared the zone on Saturday, it said that it would police the airspace with military aircraft, a move that raised the specter of Japanese and Chinese fighter jets intercepting each other. The move drew immediate criticism from both Japan and the United States, which is obligated by treaty to defend Japan from attack.
上周六宣布划设该识别区时，中国表示会用军用飞机管辖相关空域，此举让人们担心，中日两国的战斗机会进行相互拦截。这一举动立即遭到了日本和美国的指责。根据条约，美国有义务保护日本免受攻击。
China’s failure so far to enforce the zone appears to support the view of some Japanese officials that the declaration of control was part of a broader, long-term strategy to try to pry the islands out of Japan’s grip. China has been doing this by sending coast guard ships around the islands, dispatching patrol aircraft and now claiming the airspace above — all steps, Japanese officials say, aimed at proving that China has just as much legal basis as Japan to claim that it administers the islands.
中国迄今未执行为该区域制定的相关规定，这似乎佐证了部分日本官员的观点，他们认为，宣称拥有该空域的控制权是一项更广泛的长期战略的一部分，目的是尝试从日本手中夺取那些岛屿。中国一直在这么做，方法是往那些岛屿周边派遣海监船和巡逻机，现在又声称自己有权控制岛屿上方的空域。日本官员称，所有这些步骤都是为了证明，中国拥有和日本一样充分的法律依据，可以声称自己管辖着相关岛屿。