WASHINGTON —President Obama has toured Nike’s headquarters and busy American ports in recent weeks to try to convince Democrats that rejecting the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 12-nation trade deal that he envisions as a crucial part of a legacy of national economic revival, will undercut American power.
华盛顿——最近几周，为了努力让民主党人相信，拒绝跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）将削弱美国的实力，奥巴马总统到访了耐克公司(Nike)总部和国内的一些繁忙的港口。在他的设想中，这个12国贸易协定将成为他复苏美国经济的政绩里的关键组成部分。
“If we don’t write the rules for trade around the world, guess what?” Mr. Obama warned at the headquarters of the sporting goods giant, whose wares he uses when he works out. “China will.”
“如果我们不为全世界的贸易活动书写规则，会出现什么结果？”奥巴马在这家体育用品巨头的总部发出警告。“中国就会这么做。”奥巴马健身时会身穿耐克。
Xi Jinping, the Chinese president and head of the Communist Party, is making a parallel pitch — but rooted in a very different strategy for gaining global influence. Mr. Xi has essentially shrugged off the question of whether his nation, the world’s second-largest economy, will join the pact. Instead, he has picked off American allies like Britain, Germany and South Korea to join, against the administration’s wishes, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, a project started by China in part to keep its own state-owned firms busy building roads, dams and power plants around Asia.
中国国家主席、中共中央总书记习近平正在宣传一个类似的项目——但是建立在一个截然不同的获得全球影响力的战略之上。习近平基本没有理会作为世界第二大经济体的中国是否将加入TPP的问题，而是对英国、德国和韩国等美国的盟友各个击破，让它们违背奥巴马政府的意愿，加入了亚洲基础设施投资银行(Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank)。这是中国发起的一个项目，其中一个目的是为了让中国国有企业在亚洲各地承揽公路、大坝和发电站的建设项目。
China is at the same time setting up individual trade deals around the region so it can use its cash and enormous market leverage to strike deals more advantageous to its interests. Mr. Xi was in Kazakhstan this month plugging his “One Belt, One Road” initiative of construction from Europe to Central Asia to the seas around China.
与此同时，中国还在该地区四处构建单独的贸易协定，从而利用本国在资金和庞大市场方面的优势，达成更符合自身利益的交易。习近平本月在哈萨克斯坦大力宣传了他的“一带一路”计划。该计划立足于建设项目，覆盖了欧洲、中亚和中国周边海域。
It is a subtle form of competition, but one that many in the Obama administration see as the most important geopolitical power struggle in the world today.
这是一次暗中的较量，却被奥巴马政府的许多官员看做当今世界最重要的地缘政治权力的争夺。
“It’s not a black-and-white contest between us and China, even though the president has presented it that way to sell it to Democrats,” said Michael J. Green, a Georgetown University professor who charts the progress of the contest. “The Pacific Partnership puts pressure on the Chinese to up their game. We are somewhere between direct competition over who will make the rules and a competitive liberalization that will eventually create some common rules around the world.”
“我们和中国之间不是你死我活的竞赛，虽然为了赢得民主党人的支持，总统把它描绘成这样，”乔治城大学(Georgetown University)教授迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J Green)说。他在关注这场竞争的态势。“太平洋伙伴关系协定为中国制造了要好好表现的压力。我们两国目前介于两种状态之间，比争夺谁来制定规则的直接竞争要好，又没达到最终在全世界制定一套共同规则的竞争性自由化。”
America’s strategy since the 1990s, when Bill Clinton wooed Republican votes to get China into the World Trade Organization, has been a straightforward one: Entice China into institutions that operate according to Western standards of trade rules, labor practices and the protection of intellectual property, gradually changing the way a rising power rises.
上世纪90年代，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)曾劝说共和党人投票支持把中国拉进世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)。从那时起，美国的策略就一直很明确：吸引中国加入在贸易规则、劳工惯例和保护知识产权方面按照西方标准运作的机制，逐渐改变这个崛起中的大国的崛起方式。
It was a view that, in retrospect, overestimated American influence and underestimated the degree to which the Chinese believed they could amend the global order to suit their own economic interests. So while Mr. Obama plays the China card to sell the accord in the United States, the Chinese are pursuing their own course.
现在看来，这种观点既高估了美国的影响力，也低估了中国人自信可以调整全球秩序、进而使其符合自身经济利益的程度。因此，尽管奥巴马在美国推销这份协定时大打中国牌，中国却在走自己的路。
China has been excluded from the negotiations on the trade deal because it has been unwilling to sign on, so far, to the wide-ranging reforms of its economy required of all members. It could join later on — and Chinese officials have left open that possibility, as have nations like South Korea. But for now, China seems in no rush. Just as it created a new infrastructure bank to suit its own ambitions, it is assembling trade agreements whose rules it can write by virtue of the huge size of its market.
中国一直被排除在TPP的谈判之外，因为它迄今不愿承诺所有成员必须实施的广泛的经济改革。它可能会在晚些时候加入——中国官员保留着这种可能性，就像韩国等国家一样。但就目前而言，中国似乎并不着急。正如它建立了一家新的基础设施投资银行来实现自己的雄心一样，中国还在构建一些贸易协定。由于中国庞大的市场规模，这些协议的规则可以由它来书写。
“The Chinese government’s response is to build the free-trade agreements that it can influence,” said Li Daokui, a professor at the School of Economics and Management at Tsinghua University in Beijing. “I would say it was mistake for the U.S. not to include China. If China had been allowed to join at the beginning, the landscape would be entirely different.”
“中国政府的回应，是打造一些自己能够施加影响的自由贸易协定，”北京清华大学经济管理学院教授李稻葵说。“我认为，美国不邀请中国加入是一个错误。如果中国一开始就得以加入，情况就会完全不同。”
Mr. Li said that if China had been part of the negotiations at the start, China might not have pushed so hard across the region for its own trade agreements, and “everything would be much simpler.”
李稻葵称，倘若从一开始就成为TPP谈判的一部分，中国可能不会在该地区那么努力地推动自己的贸易协定，“一切都会简单得多。”
Perhaps for Mr. Xi. For Mr. Obama, it might have been even more complex. As his failure to prevail in an important vote in the Senate on Tuesday to get the authority he needs to negotiate the trade agreement — a temporary and tactical setback, administration officials insisted — the domestic politics of this deal are difficult enough without China as a potential signatory. With China, it would be even harder.
对习近平来说，或许是这样。但对于奥巴马来说，情况则可能会更加复杂。在周二的参议院投票中，他未能获得所需的推动TPP谈判的授权——奥巴马政府的官员坚称这是一个暂时的战术挫折。在中国并非潜在签署国的情况下，在美国国内为该协议获得政治支持已然非常困难。如果中国参与的话，则更是难上加难。
Kevin Rudd, the former Australian prime minister, has spent the last year at Harvard and at the Asia Society studying the long-term future between China and the West. He concluded in a recently published report that in both China and the United States there was a rush “to believe that the two countries are now locked into some sort of irreversible and increasingly fractious zero-sum game.” Instead, he found the relationship was still “functioning reasonably effectively,” but noted that Mr. Xi had changed strategy.
澳大利亚前总理陆克文(Kevin Rudd)过去一年在哈佛大学(Harvard)和亚洲协会(Asia Society)研究中国和西方的长期未来。他在最近发表的一篇报告中得出结论，中国和美国都有人迫不及待地“认为两国现在陷入了某种不可逆转且越发难以驾驭的零和游戏中”。而在他看来，这段关系仍然“在颇为有效地发挥作用”，但他也指出，习近平已在改变策略。
“He has ended former paramount leader Deng Xiaoping’s foreign policy orthodoxy over the past 35 years of ‘hide your strength, bide your time, never take the lead,’ in favor of a more vigorous, activist and assertive international policy to advance Chinese interests both in the region and beyond,” he wrote in Foreign Policy.
“他结束了中国在过去35年奉行的前最高领导人邓小平的‘韬光养晦、决不当头’的外交理念，青睐更加活跃、积极和强势的外交政策，在地区内外推动中国的利益，”陆克文在《外交政策》(Foreign Policy)杂志中撰文指出。
Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University, said Chinese leaders were well aware of how important approval of the trade agreement, also known as the TPP, is for Mr. Obama as he tries what he has often called a “rebalancing” toward Asia.
中国人民大学国际关系学院教授时殷弘表示，中国领导人非常清楚，在奥巴马尝试亚洲“再平衡”战略之际，TPP这份贸易协定的通过对奥巴马有多重要。
“The Chinese government knows the TPP is a major attempt by the U.S. to win back economic leadership in the region,” Mr. Shi said. “China also knows the Asia Pacific region is such a wide region, so you can have two stages. One is led by the U.S., which is pushing the TPP The other is dominated by China.”
“中国政府知道TPP是美国为了夺回地区经济领导权而采取的重要尝试，”时殷弘说。“中国还知道亚太地区是一个很广阔的地区，可以容纳两个舞台。一个由正在推动TPP的美国领导，另外一个则由中国主导。”
Mr. Shi said China was not worried about the TPP because Asia was a vast enough region to allow for multiple trade agreements. “This is far from a zero-sum game,” he said. “In the future, both countries will find places of cooperation as well as competition.”
时殷弘说，中国对TPP并不感到担忧，因为亚洲足够庞大，可以让多个贸易协定并存。“这根本不是零和游戏，”他说。“未来，两国会找到合作和竞争的领域。”
American officials say the Chinese view has evolved. “They have come around to seeing that they are going to have to live in a TPP world, a world with higher standards and increased competition for investment,” Michael B. Froman, the United States trade representative, who is negotiating the deal, said in an interview. “We are already seeing that investors are deciding to move to TPP countries where they will have a stable labor system,” protections for intellectual property and the freedom to move data in and out the country without government restraints, which are part of the deal being negotiated. “That’s going to force China to raise their game, too.”
美国官员则表示，中国的观点在发生变化。“他们转而看到，自己将不得不接受一个有TPP的世界，一个由更高标准和更激烈的投资竞争构成的世界，”美国贸易代表迈克尔·B·弗罗曼(Michael B Froman)接受采访时说。他正在进行TPP的谈判。“我们已经看到投资者纷纷决定转移到TPP的参与国，因为那里有更稳定的劳工体系、”知识产权的保护和不受政府限制的移动数据的自由。这些都是正在谈判的协定的一部分。“这将迫使中国也提高自己的标准。”
Listen to the debate on Capitol Hill and it sounds a lot like the 1990s — discussion of manufacturing jobs being sent to China, fears that American sovereignty will be ignored in trade disputes, revived arguments about North American Free Trade Agreement, which was passed a quarter-century ago.
国会正在进行的辩论听起来就像回到了上世纪90年代——他们讨论着制造业的工作机会将被转移到中国，担心美国的权威在贸易争端中会被忽视，再次上演有关四分之一个世纪前通过的《北美自由贸易协定》(North American Free Trade Agreement)的争论。