SEOUL, South Korea — A Chinese fishing boat captain died on Friday after being shot during a clash with the South Korean Coast Guard, which sought to impound the Chinese ship that it said was illegally fishing in South Korean waters.
韩国首尔——一名中国渔船船长周五在与韩国海岸警卫队发生冲突时被枪击中身亡，韩国海警称这艘中国渔船在韩国海域非法捕鱼，并试图将其扣押。
The Chinese captain’s 80-ton boat was fishing in waters about 90 miles west of Wangdeung-do, an island off western South Korea, when a coast guard ship tried to seize it, South Korean Coast Guard officials said. Soon, four more Chinese fishing boats surrounded the South Korean ship and a violent scuffle erupted, the officials said.
韩国海岸警卫队官员说，当海警队船只试图截获渔船时，中国船长驾驶的这艘80吨级渔船正在韩国西部沿海中的旺嶝岛以西约144公里的海上捕鱼。官员说，四艘中国渔船很快包围了韩国船只，导致暴力混战发生。
A South Korean officer fired pistol shots as a warning, and the 45-year-old Chinese captain was apparently hit by one of the bullets, said a coast guard official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because there had not been an official government announcement. The Chinese captain was moved by helicopter to a hospital in Mokpo, a city in the southwestern tip of South Korea, where he was pronounced dead.
一位海岸警卫队官员说，韩国海警用手枪鸣枪示警，45岁的中国船长显然是被射出的子弹之一打中，这位官员要求不具名，因为官方尚未发出正式声明。中国船长被直升机送到韩国西南角木浦市的一家医院，在那里他被宣告死亡。
The hospital later released an X-ray photo that showed a bullet in his stomach.
医院后来公布的X射线照片显示，他的肚子里有一颗子弹。
The South Korean news agency Yonhap reported that the shots were fired while the Chinese fishermen used homemade weapons to resist the South Korean officers who boarded their ship. The fishermen yanked the helmet off an officer and tried to strangle him, the report said, citing South Korean Coast Guard officials.
韩国通讯社韩联社报道称，开枪是因为中国渔民使用自制武器抵抗登上他们船只的韩国警员。报道援引韩国海警队官员的话说，渔民拉下一名海警的头盔，并试图勒死他。
China was “deeply shocked and dissatisfied with the violent actions that resulted in the death” of the captain, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said at a regularly scheduled briefing. The captain was shot and killed while the South Korean Coast Guard searched the Chinese vessel, Mr. Hong said.
中国外交部发言人洪磊在例行记者会上说，“中方对韩方采取这一暴力执法行为导致中国渔民死亡感到十分震惊，并表示强烈不满。”洪磊表示，船长是在韩国海警队搜查中国船只时被枪击中死亡的。
Asked if the shooting could derail the warm relations between China and South Korea, Mr. Hong said South Korea needed to deal with the situation in a “serious and sincere and proper” way.
当被问及枪击事件是否可能会破坏中韩两国之间的友好关系时，洪磊表示，韩国需要用“严肃、认真、妥善”的方式处理这件事。
Under President Park Geun-hye, South Korea has moved to improve ties with China, already its No. 1 trading partner, even though Beijing has also remained the most important ally and supporter of North Korea. Ms. Park visited China last year, and President Xi Jinping of China made a state visit to Seoul, the South Korean capital, in July, during which he urged South Koreans to join the Chinese in historical disputes against Japan.
在朴槿惠总统的领导下，韩国已采取行动增强与中国的关系，虽然北京仍是朝鲜最重要的盟友和支持者，但中国是韩国的第一大贸易伙伴。朴槿惠去年曾访问中国，中国国家主席习近平也在7月份前往韩国首都首尔进行国事访问，在访问期间，他敦促韩国和中国一起追究日本的历史罪行。