HONG KONG — Jiang Kejun may be one of the few Beijing residents who see a ray of hope in the smog engulfing the city. A researcher in a state energy institute, he is an outspoken advocate of swiftly cutting China’s greenhouse gas output, and he says public anger about noxious air has jolted the government, which long dismissed pollution as the necessary price of prosperity.
香港——姜克隽大概是少数在铺天盖地的烟雾中看到希望的北京居民之一。作为一家国家能源研究机构的学者，他公开呼吁快速削减中国的温室气体排放，并且表示，公众对有毒气体的怒火震动了长期将污染视作经济繁荣必要代价而加以忽略的政府。
The grimy haze blanketing Beijing and other Chinese cities comes from motor vehicles, factories, power plants and furnaces that also emit carbon dioxide, the main global warming gas from human activities. The widespread ire about air pollution has forced China’s new leadership to vow firmer, faster measures for cleaner air that are likely to reduce carbon dioxide output, especially from coal, experts said. “The public concern about the air pollution has helped raise awareness about broader environmental problems,” said Mr. Jiang, a researcher at the Energy Research Institute, which advises the Chinese government. “This will be a big help in pushing China.”
席卷北京等中国城市的污浊雾霾源自机动车、工业企业、发电厂和锅炉，而人类活动排放的主要温室气体二氧化碳同样来自这些地方。专家们表示，全社会对空气污染的愤怒已迫使中国新领导层下决心采取更坚决、更迅速的措施来净化空气，从而有可能削减二氧化碳的排放量，尤其是来自煤炭的排放。“公众对空气污染的关切有助于提高对更多环境问题的意识，”在发改委能源研究所任研究员的姜克隽说，该研究所向中国政府提供咨询意见。“这对推动中国有很大的益处。”
Mr. Jiang is an unusual hybrid — part policy insider, part maverick — in a growing debate among Chinese officials, policy advisers and academics about how fast and far to limit greenhouse gas pollution, which now well exceeds that of any other country. The debate, increasingly vigorous but in typical Chinese fashion playing out largely behind the scenes, pits the demands of industrialization and urban growth against the realities of global warming.
中国的温室气体排放已远远超出世界其他任何国家，而在中国官员、政策顾问和学者中间，正越来越多地就限制这种污染的速度和程度进行辩论。姜克隽是其中一个不同寻常的混合体，他既是影响政策的圈内人，又持有独特的见解。这种辩论日益激烈，但遵循了典型的中国惯例，大体在幕后进行，议题则是将工业化和城市发展的需求与全球变暖的现实加以权衡。
Defying the habitual caution of government advisers, Mr. Jiang has developed a proposal to swiftly limit the growing volume of carbon dioxide that China produces from consuming fossil fuels, which constitute over a quarter of the world’s total such emissions. In his blueprint, China’s emissions would reach a peak by around 2025, at least five years earlier and at a much lower level than many Chinese experts have said is possible.
姜克隽甩掉了政府顾问惯有的谨小慎微，他提出建议，中国应迅速限制化石燃料消耗导致的二氧化碳排放。中国的此类排放已超过全球总量的四分之一。按照他的设想，中国的排放应在2025年左右达到峰值，比许多中国专家认为可能实现的时间至少早了五年，排放水平也低于后者的估算。
“I’m not saying it will be easy, but it’s feasible,” Mr. Jiang said. “Time for effective action is very limited.”
“我的意思不是说可以轻易做到，但这是可行的，”姜克隽说。“采取有效行动的时间很紧。”
His plan appears far from winning government endorsement, but is “one of those trial balloons that wouldn’t be floated unless there’s serious discussion opening up about what China should do,” said Barbara Finamore, Asia director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a New York-based advocacy group.
他的方案离赢得政府支持看来还相距甚远。不过，总部在纽约的倡导团体自然资源保护协会(Natural Resources Defense Council)的亚洲项目主任芭芭拉·费雯丽(Barbara Finamore)表示，“要不是围绕着中国该怎么做开展了严肃的讨论，像姜克隽这样的试探性言论就不会冒出来。”
Chinese policy advisers have developed proposals to control greenhouse gases in the nearer term, government-sponsored studies show. They include a carbon tax on fossil fuels, and beginning in 2016 setting annual guiding limits for carbon dioxide emissions from energy use. China will explore expanding nascent local carbon credit markets into a nationwide plan starting in 2015, Xie Zhenhua, an official who oversees climate change policy, said in late July.
中国政府资助的研究显示，政策顾问们已经完成了有关近期控制温室气体的建议。其中包括对化石燃料征收碳税，以及从2016年开始设定用能部门的二氧化碳排放年度指导性限值。今年7月底，负责中国气候变化政策的官员之一解振华表示，将于2015年扩大新出现的地区试点的范围，探索建立全国性的碳权交易市场。
In part, China is responding to international pressure, as governments negotiate a proposed new global agreement on climate change, scheduled to be settled in 2015 and go into force in 2020. In June, President Obama and President Xi Jinping agreed to discuss how to phase out hydrofluorocarbons, a potent class of manufactured greenhouse gases.
中国这样做部分是为了回应国际压力。各国政府正在就一项新气候变化全球协议提案进行谈判，争取按照日程在2015年达成协议，并于2020年生效。今年6月，奥巴马总统和习近平主席达成共识，将谈论逐步淘汰氢氟烃的方案。氢氟烃属于人工制品，是一类强大的温室气体。
But domestic economic, energy and environmental worries are also forcing China’s leaders to consider policies that could limit greenhouse gases, analysts said. The new leadership wants to reinvigorate the economy by reducing reliance on heavy industry that produces high amounts of pollution. Mr. Xi and Prime Minister Li Keqiang have vowed to clean up contaminated soil, air and water, and achieving those goals could also bring carbon reductions in their wake.
不过，分析人士指出，国内的经济、能源与环境忧虑也迫使中国领导人考虑一些能限制温室气体的政策。新领导层希望，通过减少对产生大量污染的重工业的依赖来重振经济。习近平主席和李克强总理立誓要清洁遭受污染的土壤、大气和水，这样做的过程中也可以减少碳排放。
“Air pollution was the perfect catalyst,” said Wai-Shin Chan, director of climate change strategy in Asia for HSBC Global Research in Hong Kong. “Air pollution is clearly linked to health, and the great thing is that everybody — that’s government officials and company executives alike — breathes the same air.”
驻香港的汇丰环球研究(HSBC Global Research)气候变化策略亚太区总监陈伟欣(Wai-Shin Chan)称，“空气污染是最佳催化剂。空气污染与健康的联系很明确，妙就妙在不管是政府官员还是企业高管，每个人都要呼吸一样的空气。”
There are, though, formidable obstacles facing proponents of rapidly cutting China’s emissions. Robust economic growth remains imperative for leaders, who fear that slowing growth and rising joblessness would imperil the Communist Party’s rule. China remains dependent on coal, the source of about 70 percent of the country’s energy. And officials and companies in China are likely to resist steps they fear could jeopardize their industrial investments.
虽说如此，但倡导中国应迅速减排的人士还是面临着巨大的障碍。在领导人心中，保持经济强劲增长仍是当务之急，他们担心，增长放缓与失业率上升会危及共产党的统治。中国仍依赖煤炭提供全国约70%的用能。此外，担心工业投资受损的中国官员和企业也很可能对这样的举措加以抵制。
“They will not be happy to see that the investment in new capacity they made a few years ago may have to be scrapped,” said Wang Tao, an expert on climate change and energy issues at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing. “It really all depends on how quickly China can transform the current economic structure.”
“他们是不会乐意看到前几年在新产能上的投入白费的，”位于北京的清华-卡内基全球政策中心(Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy)的气候变化与能源问题专家王韬说。“这完全取决于中国能以多快的速度转变目前的经济结构。”
In April, Mr. Xie, the climate change official, announced a reassessment of when and how high China’s greenhouse gas pollution could peak. “There is very limited room for putting more carbon emissions into the atmosphere,” said Yang Fuqiang, an expert on Chinese climate change policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “Determining when China could peak, and what the level will be, is extremely important for everyone and for working out a global pathway.”
今年4月，主管气候变化的官员解振华宣布，重新评估中国的温室气体排放达到顶点的时间及峰值的水平。自然资源保护协会的中国气候变化政策专家杨富强表示，“往大气里进行更多碳排放的空间非常有限。确定中国的排放什么时候到达顶点，峰值的水平是多少，对各方及全球路径的出台而言都极为重要。”
The magnitude of that issue is evident in every Chinese city. Factories and homes run on power from plants that overwhelmingly use coal; and in the winter, many heating boilers in the north also burn coal. More cars and trucks crowd the roads. The expanding cities consume cement, steel and chemicals — all industries that emit large amounts of carbon dioxide.
问题的规模之大在中国的每座城市都显而易见。为工厂和住宅供能的发电厂绝大多数采用煤炭发电。到了冬季，北方的许多供暖锅炉也烧的是煤。街头巷尾堵了越来越多的轿车和卡车。城市扩张要消耗水泥、钢铁和化学品，而这些行业都大量排放二氧化碳。
China has been the world’s biggest emitter of carbon dioxide from fuel use since about 2006, when it passed the United States. In 2009, the Chinese government introduced a policy to reduce the carbon dioxide emitted in the production of each unit of economic activity by 40 to 45 percent by 2020, compared with levels in 2005. That means emissions grow along with China’s economy, but at a slower rate than if there were no improvements.
自从2006年前后超越美国之后，中国在燃料使用导致的二氧化碳排放方面，一直是世界上最大的排放国。2009年，中国政府宣布了一项政策，提出2020年的单位GDP碳强度要比2005年降低40%到45%。这意味着，排放将随着中国经济的增长而升高，但速率将比毫无改善的情况要慢。
Even with such efforts, China’s size and feverish growth have pushed its emissions well past those of the United States. By 2011, China’s carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels accounted for 28 percent of the global total, and the United States’ for 16 percent, according to the Global Carbon Project, a consortium of researchers. The International Energy Agency estimates that China’s emissions grew by another 3.8 percent in 2012.
就算存在这样的努力，中国本身的规模加上疯狂的增长也将其排放推高到把美国远远甩在身后的水平。根据研究组织全球碳计划(Global Carbon Project)的数据，2011年，中国化石燃料导致的二氧化碳排放占到全球的28%，而美国为16%。国际能源署(International Energy Agency)估算，中国2012年的排放量进一步增长了3.8%。
“I do not see anything coming out of China that would suggest a significant change in emissions in the short term,” said Glen Peters, a researcher at the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Oslo. “There would need to be some really radical policies to come out of China for a large change in the pathway to occur.”
格伦·彼得斯(Glen Peters)是奥斯陆的国际气候与环境研究中心(Center for International Climate and Environmental Research)的研究员，他称，“我没有看到任何来自中国的迹象能够表明，排放方面在短期会发生重大变化。要想实现重大的改变，中国需要采取一些非常激进的政策。”
Mr. Jiang, who has studied energy emissions for two decades, has that grand shift in mind. China must expand wind, solar and nuclear power beyond current targets, and curb heavy industry, forcing carbon dioxide emissions to peak within a dozen years, he argues. If China’s effort is accompanied by big emissions cuts by rich countries, he says, then there is a good chance of avoiding rises in the global average temperature of beyond 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit above the preindustrial average, which most governments have agreed is a dangerous threshold.
研究能源排放问题已经20年的姜克隽，脑海中构思的就是这种大转变。他主张，中国必须比目前的目标更积极地扩张风能、太阳能与核能，限制重工业，强力推动碳排放在12年后达到峰值。他还表示，如果中国的努力能配以发达国家的大幅减排，将有相当大的希望把全球平均升温控制在比工业革命之前的均值高2摄氏度以内。多数国家的政府一致认为，2摄氏度是一个危险的阈值。
But other Chinese government experts said their country must not risk its prosperity on such a shift.
不过，其他一些为中国政府提供建议的专家指出，中国绝不能以牺牲经济繁荣的方式来进行这样的转变。
Wang Zheng, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, estimated that China’s emissions were likely to reach their peak by around 2030 at up to almost a fifth higher than Mr. Jiang wants. “If we aim for earlier, that may mean wrecking stable economic growth and triggering an economic crisis,” Mr. Wang said.
根据中国科学院研究员王铮的估算，中国的排放很可能在2030年左右达到峰值，排放水平比姜克隽的期望高出近20%。“如果我们以更早的时间点为目标，就可能破坏经济的稳定增长，引发经济危机，”王铮称。
Mr. Jiang said he would keep trying to persuade scientists and officials to back his proposal. Several years ago, some scoffed at his earlier, less ambitious idea for an emissions peak by 2030, which is now widely accepted.
姜克隽表示，他将继续努力劝说科学家和政府官员支持他的建议。几年前，一些人嘲笑他早前提出的2030年到达峰值的较保守说法，如今这一提法却已被广泛接受。
“I’ve been in constant communication with the government,” he said. “They’re listening, and at least they haven’t yet said no.”
“我一直与政府保持着经常性的接触，”他说，“他们在听，至少还没说不行。”