BEIJING — China is home to at least 10 White Houses, three Arcs de Triomphe and one Eiffel Tower. But 2016 might signal the end for China’s more grandiose architecture.
北京——中国境内至少修建了10座白宫、三座凯旋门和一座艾菲尔铁塔。但是从2016年开始，可能不会再有更多这样的浮夸建筑物出现了。
A directive issued on Sunday by the State Council, China’s cabinet, and the Communist Party’s Central Committee says no to architecture that is “oversized, xenocentric, weird” and devoid of cultural tradition. Instead, buildings should be “suitable, economic, green and pleasing to the eye.”
中共中央和国务院周日印发指示，要求防止修建“贪大、媚洋、求怪，特色缺失和文化传承堪忧”的建筑物，而是要坚持“适用、经济、绿色、美观”的方针。
The directive also calls for an end to gated communities.
该指示还呼吁不再修建封闭住宅小区。
The guidelines come two months after a high-level meeting to address some of the problems that have arisen as a result of China’s rapid urbanization. The last such meeting was in 1978, when only 18 percent of China’s population lived in towns or cities. Now, more than 56 percent of the country’s 1.3 billion people are urbanites.
这项指示发布的两个月前召开了一次高级别会议，旨在应对中国快速城市化而产生的问题。上一次召开这样的会议还是在1978年，当时只有18%的中国人口居住在城镇地区。现如今，中国13亿人口中超过56%居住在都市里。
The directive also follows President Xi Jinping’s criticism in late 2014 of “weird architecture.”
这项指示也是2014年底习近平主席批评“奇奇怪怪的建筑”的延伸。
Experts say that as a result of the new guidelines from top leaders, they expect stricter design standards for public buildings. Wang Kai, vice president of the China Academy of Urban Planning and Design, under the Ministry of Construction, said that functionality should take precedence in public buildings. “We shouldn’t go overboard in pursuit of appearances,” he said.
专家表示，由于新的指导方针传达了最高领导层的意见，他们认为，公共建筑将会采用更严格的设计标准。建设部旗下中国城市规划设计研究院的副院长王凯表示，公共建筑应当优先考虑功能。“我们不应该在追求外观上走极端，”他说。
On Oct. 15, 2014, at a major symposium on culture, Mr. Xi urged that there be “no more weird architecture.” A social media platform under People’s Daily, the Communist Party newspaper, predicted that “in the future it is unlikely that Beijing will have other strangely shaped buildings like the ‘Giant Trousers’ ” — a reference to the China Central Television Headquarters, a hulking, long-limbed edifice designed by Rem Koolhaas and Ole Scheeren.
2014年10月15日，在一个重要的文艺座谈会上，习近平敦促“不要搞奇奇怪怪的建筑”。中共党报《人民日报》在社交媒体平台上预测，“北京市今后不太可能再出现如同‘大裤衩’一样奇形怪状的建筑了”。“大裤衩”指的是中央电视台总部大厦，其外观整体庞大，局部修长，设计师是雷姆·库哈斯(Rem Koolhaas)和奥雷·舍人(Ole Scheeren)。
Feng Guochuan, an architect from Shenzhen, said that Mr. Xi’s admonishment had already influenced local governments’ decisions regarding new projects. “Generally speaking, local governments now tend to approve more conservative designs,” he said.
深圳建筑师冯果川表示，习近平的告诫已经影响了地方政府在新项目上的决定。“总体而言，地方政府现在倾向于批准更加保守的设计，”他说。
In an interview with Dezeen magazine, Patrik Schumacher, director of Zaha Hadid Architects, said that foreign architects were finding it more difficult to get work in China. Zaha Hadid Architects has designed some of Beijing’s more futuristic residential and office buildings.
在接受《Dezeen》杂志采访时，扎哈·哈迪德建筑事务所(Zaha Hadid Architects)主管帕特里克·舒马赫(Patrik Schumacher)称，国外建筑师发现，在中国接业务变得更加困难了。这家事务所在北京设计了一些比较超前的住宅和办公大楼。
“I feel that there is this attempt by the Chinese leadership to try to make itself more independent and rely on its own talent,” Mr. Schumacher told Dezeen.
“我觉得，中国领导层想要变得更加独立，更加倚重本国人才，”舒马赫对《Dezeen》表示。
Mr. Feng said he was concerned that Mr. Xi was interfering in an area that should be left to urban planning departments.
冯果川说，他担心习近平在干涉一个本应由城市规划部门来负责的领域。
But Mr. Wang said that the stricter standards applied primarily to public projects. “For private housing or commercial projects,” he said, “there is still space for innovation.”
但王凯认为，更加严格的标准主要适用于公共项目。“在私人住宅或商业项目方面，仍然存在创新的空间。”他说。
However, the same directive also says there are to be no more gated residential communities. Those already in place will be gradually opened to the public, with their roads opened to traffic with one goal being to ease congestion.
不过，同一份指示也表示，今后不再建设封闭住宅小区。已建成的住宅小区要逐步打开，实现内部道路公共化，以便起到纾缓交通挤塞的作用。