Summer study trips have become a popular way for Chinese students to get a taste of life abroad, but the Ministry of Education has put out a call for more studying and less sightseeing.
夏季研学旅行活动已经成为广受中国学生欢迎的体验海外生活的方式。不过，教育部要求，在此类活动中丰富教育内容，减少旅游观光行程。
Participating in overseas study tours is an “important initiative” in the internationalization of education, the ministry said in a statement released on its website on Monday. But some of these programs have emphasized tourism rather than education, and have been poorly organized and subject to “arbitrary” pricing, the statement said.
周一，教育部在其网站发布文件称，参加赴境外研学旅行活动是加快教育国际化进程的“重要举措”。但同时指出，其中一些项目侧重旅游，轻于教育，组织不力，随意定价。
The popularity of these trips, which typically include visits to schools and universities, stems from the growing tide of Chinese students who dream of a foreign education. The United States remains the most popular destination for Chinese students, who now form the largest group of foreign students in the country.
此类活动非常受欢迎，因为越来越多的中国学生希望到国外留学。活动内容通常包括访问中高等院校。美国一直是中国学生最青睐的目的地，在赴美留学的外国学生中，中国学生目前所占比例最大。
Chinese students are also heading abroad at younger ages. In the 1980s, Chinese studying overseas tended to be an elite group at the graduate level, but with greater prosperity over the past couple of decades, more Chinese parents are sending their children abroad to attend middle schools and high schools. One aim is to avoid the rote-based educational system in China, as well as to provide these children with an opportunity to master another language and culture.
中国学生也越来越多地在年龄较小时出国学习。20世纪80年代，赴海外留学的中国人往往来自继续研究生教育的精英群体，但过去20年的留学热潮促使越来越多的中国家长将孩子送到国外读初中和高中。其中一个目的就是避开以死记硬背为基础的中国教育系统，同时为孩子提供掌握另一种语言和文化的机会。
Private companies like Shinyway International have benefited from this surging market demand over recent years, offering trips to the United States, Britain and other popular study destinations for pupils as young as 11 years old. For example, the company is offering a two-week tour starting in late July of American universities, including University of California campuses in Los Angeles and Berkeley, with side trips to the Golden Gate Bridge and Disneyland. The tour costs 36,800 renminbi, about $6,000, and is aimed at fourth to ninth graders, the company’s advertisement says.
最近几年，市场需求激增，新通国际等私营企业从中获利。它们为学生（年龄最低的为11岁的小学生）提供前往美国和英国等受欢迎的留学目的地的旅行项目。例如，该公司提供了一个为期两周的美国大学之旅项目，7月下旬出发，行程包括加州大学洛杉矶分校和伯克利分校，顺路还会到金门大桥和迪士尼乐园游玩。公司广告上标明，活动费用为36800元人民币（约合6000美元），招收对象是小四至高二在校学生。
The itinerary is not atypical. More often than not, the companies include some sightseeing or a taste of local life — perhaps too much, the Ministry of Education appears to suggest.
这一行程没有什么特别之处。各个公司通常会安排一些观光或体验当地生活的项目。不过，教育部似乎暗示，此类项目可能过多了。
These study trips should have “a clear and rewarding educational goal,” the statement said. In general, at least 50 percent of the trip should involve educational activities, the statement said.
声明称，境外研学旅行应该“具有明确、有益的教育目的”。教育活动所占比例一般不少于全部行程计划的二分之一。