Even if you think the Chinese official you’re dealing with is a bit of a dude, a bro or a boss — don’t call him any of those things. Such terms are signs of unwanted bureaucratic sectarianism and ganglike behavior, according to the Communist Party discipline inspection commission of Guangdong Province.
对于你正在与之打交道的中国官员，即使你心里有点把他当成哥们、兄弟，或者老板——也不要用这些词来称呼他。根据广东省中共纪律检查委员会的说法，这些称呼受到了官僚主义、宗派主义、“江湖习气”等不良风气的影响。
In what reads a little like a Miss Manners manual — but with a distinctively Chinese Communist twist — a notice was published by the commission on its website on Wednesday demanding greater “naming discipline” from party members and officials, warning that using “vulgar” terms of address in the workplace was “wrecking inner-party democracy and damaging the image of public servants.”
广东省纪委本周三在其网站上发布了一条公告，它读起来有点像一本《礼仪指南》(Miss Manners)手册——但却具有鲜明的中国共产党特色。该公告要求严明党政机关工作人员之间的称呼纪律，并警告说，在党政机关里使用“庸俗化”的称呼会“破坏党内民主，损害公仆形象。”
So what’s an official to say, instead?
那么，应该怎么称呼官员呢？
“Comrade,” according to another circular, issued by the Communist Youth League of Yunnan Province, Global Times reported. Use the person’s name or plain old “colleague,” the Guangdong circular suggested.
“同志”，云南省共青团出台的另一个通知表示，据《环球时报》报道。广东省的公告建议称呼这个人的姓名，或者直接使用老式称谓“同事”。
Adding to officials’ work stress, they are to mind their manners and not answer citizens’ queries with an unhelpful “I don’t know” or “Don’t ask me,” according to instructions issued in February in Pengshan County in Sichuan Province, Global Times reported.
官员们在工作压力之外，还要注意行为举止，在回答市民的询问时不准说“不晓得”、“别找我”，四川省彭山县今年2月出台的一个要求规定，据《环球时报》报道。
The focus on forms of address and behavior is all part of a broader push by President Xi Jinping to combat the “four winds” that strafe the party and give it a bad odor among the people.
注重称呼和行为方式，是习近平在党内广泛推动打击“四风”——形式主义、官僚主义、享乐主义和奢靡之风。
Pointedly, some of the terms pointed out by the Guangdong note are used in triad, or mafia circles — raising questions about where the naming influences might be coming from.
广东纪委尖锐地指出，某些称呼带有“江湖习气”，是黑社会帮派用法。而这不免带出了一个问题：这些称呼可能是受到了来自哪里的影响。
Another challenge is title inflation. Chinese news outlets have recently run articles explaining that people are anxious to avoid appearing disrespectful to their superiors or other power-holders, leading them to exaggerate the person’s title. “Bumping into someone by accident you can only go up, not down,” is the attitude, Global Times said, citing a report in the Southern Weekly newspaper.
另一个挑战是“头衔夸大”的问题。中国新闻媒体最近刊登文章解释说，人们很想避免对上司或其他当权者表现得不敬，因此他们会夸大这些人的头衔。“碰到某个人时，你只能把他往上称呼，不能往下”，《环球时报》援引《南方周末》的一则报告说。
Even for slang titles like “dude,” there is a hierarchy. Here’s a brief glossary of what not to call officials from now on: (Note that many of these titles do not apply to women, but no female variations were offered by the circulars.)
即使像“哥们”这样的俚语式称呼也是有等级的。以下是一个简短的词汇表，从现在开始你就不能用它们来称呼官员了：（注意，其中很多称呼不适用于女性，但是那些通知里没有提到对女性的称呼。）
• Dude (哥们, gemen or gemer, literally “older brother”). Applied to someone who is your inferior in rank.
“哥们”，适用于等级比你低的人。
• Brother or bro (兄弟, xiongdi, “older younger brother”). Also your inferior.
“兄弟”，也适用于等级比你低的人。
• Boss (老板, laoban, “old board,” as in chairman of the board.) Applied to your superior.
“老板”，适用于等级比你高的人。
• Group leader — also the boss of a criminal gang (老大, laoda, “old big”). Also your superior.
“老大”——犯罪团伙的老板，也适用于等级比你高的人。
What to call him — or her — instead?
那么怎么称呼他——或者她呢？
• Colleague (同事, tongshi, “same affairs”). Unisex and egalitarian, this theoretically works for everyone.
“同事”。男女皆宜，具有平等主义意味，理论上适用于每一个人。
• Comrade (同志, tongzhi, “same ideal”). Also unisex and more radically egalitarian, in decades past this was a near-universal form of address.
“同志”，也是男女皆宜，不过平等主义意味更强，在过去​​几十年里，这几乎是对他人的统称。