It was her graphic onscreen sex scenes with Tony Leung Chiu-Wai in “Lust, Caution,” under the direction of Ang Lee, that placed Tang Wei in the firmament of Chinese stars. She might have become an even bigger household name after the film was released in 2007 if prudish Chinese officials had not put her on an industry blacklist. Producers and directors avoided working with her for years, until at some point she was deemed to have been rehabilitated. She is now acting in films that are shown in mainland Chinese theaters.
在李安导演的影片《色·戒》中与梁朝伟的大尺度床戏让汤唯在中国成名。《色·戒》于2007年上映，如果过分拘谨的中国官员此后没有将她拉进电影行业的黑名单的话，她的名字可能会更家喻户晓。多年来，导演和制作人一直避免与她合作，直到大家认为她已获解禁为止。现在她正在拍一些在中国内地影院上映的电影。
On Saturday, Ms. Tang was in Shanghai working on a film project when she became the victim of a telephone scam, according to Chinese news reports. Somehow she was persuaded over the telephone that afternoon to go to a bank and wire 210,000 renminbi, or about $34,500, from one of her accounts, the reports said.
中国媒体报道称，正在上海拍戏的汤唯周六遭遇电信诈骗。报道称，当日下午，她接到电话后被骗21万元人民币。
A spokesman for the Songjiang District police station in Shanghai said the station did receive a complaint about a telephone scam, but he declined to say whether Ms. Tang was the person who filed it. “The case is still under investigation,” he said.
上海松江区公安分局发言人称该局确曾接到电信诈骗报案，但拒绝透露报案人是否是汤唯。他说，“案子正在调查中。”
Xinhua, the state news agency, said Ms. Tang filed a police report at 4 p.m. Saturday with the Songjiang station. A photograph has been circulating on Chinese microblogs that purports to show Ms. Tang sitting at a Shanghai bank, but there has been no confirmation from Ms. Tang or her associates of the identity of the person in the photograph.
国家通讯社新华社消息称，汤唯在周六下午4时向松江警方报案。一张在中国微博上流传的照片似乎显示汤唯坐在上海的一家银行内办理业务，但汤唯及其友人均未确认照片中人的身份。
One Chinese news organization reported that an agent of Ms. Tang had confirmed that the scam had taken place. The agent declined to give more details but urged people to remain vigilant against telecommunications scams.
一家中国新闻机构报道称，汤唯的经纪人已确认汤唯曾遭骗局。该经纪人拒绝透露更多细节，但力劝大家警惕电信诈骗。
“Lust, Caution” is an erotic thriller set in Shanghai during the Japanese occupation that Mr. Lee, who has won two Oscars for his directing, adapted from one of Eileen Chang’s best-known stories. In 2007, Ms. Tang won a best newcomer award at the Taipei Golden Horse Film Festival, while Mr. Lee won for best directing and Mr. Leung for best acting. But Ms. Tang also ended up on the state-imposed industry blacklist in China, though who is on the list at any given time is never publicly revealed.
《色·戒》是一部情色惊悚片，以日本占领下的上海为背景，由曾两次获得奥斯卡最佳导演奖的李安根据张爱玲最著名的一部作品改编。2007年，汤唯获得台北金马影展最佳新人奖，李安获得最佳导演奖，梁朝伟荣获最佳男主角。但汤唯最终被列入国家强制推行的行业黑名单，尽管该名单从未曝光。
In 2009, Ms. Tang played a romantic lead in “Crossing Hennessy,” a Hong Kong production directed by Ivy Ho and co-starring Jacky Cheung, who is known for his Cantopop songs. The film was shown in mainland theaters in 2010, a sign that Ms. Tang was no longer on the blacklist.
2009年，汤唯在岸西导演的香港电影《月满轩尼诗》中与以粤语流行歌曲著称的张学友合作，扮演了一名浪漫的女主角。该电影于2010年在中国大陆上映，象征着汤唯已被移出黑名单。
But Variety, the film industry publication, reported in 2011 that scenes with Ms. Tang had been cut from “The Founding of a Party,” an all-star, old-school propaganda film produced by China Film Group in honor of the 90th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party. Ms. Tang played Tao Yi, an early girlfriend of Mao Zedong, but objections to the scenes were possibly raised by Mao Xinyu, a grandson of Mao who has a rank of major general in the People’s Liberation Army, according to Variety.
不过，电影行业出版物《综艺》(Variety)在2011年报道称，影片《建党伟业》删去了汤唯的镜头。这是一部明星云集的老派宣传片，是中国电影集团为庆贺中国共产党建党90周年而制作的。汤唯在片中扮演毛泽东的早期女友陶毅，但据《综艺》报道，毛泽东的孙子毛新宇可能对汤唯的镜头提出了反对意见，毛新宇拥有人民解放军的少将军衔。