Officials governing a large area of northern China say their region is suffering from the worst drought on record, leading to crops wilting and farmers and herders growing desperate to get water to farmlands, grasslands, animals and their households.
管理着中国北方大片区域的官员说，那里正遭受着有记录以来最严重的旱灾，农作物枯萎，农牧民为农田、草原、动物和家人找水发愁。
The drought is affecting the northeastern and eastern areas of the Inner Mongolian Autonomous Region, which is near Beijing.
这场干旱正在影响距离北京不远的内蒙古自治区的东北部和东部地区。
In recent years, Chinese scientists have attributed extreme weather patterns in China, and especially in northern China, to climate change. The region of Inner Mongolia and its residents have been hit especially hard by wide fluctuations in the weather.
近年来，中国科学家把中国，特别是中国北方的极端天气模式归结于气候变化。天气的大幅波动对内蒙古地区及其居民的影响尤其严重。
President Xi Jinping and other Chinese leaders say climate change is an urgent problem that nations must address together, and they have insisted that countries abide by the Paris climate accord, despite President Trump’s announcement this month that the United States would withdraw from the agreement.
习近平等中国领导人说，气候变化是各国必须共同解决的紧迫问题，他们坚定主张各国要遵守巴黎气候协定，虽然特朗普本月宣布美国将退出这个协定。
The United States is historically the world’s largest emitter of greenhouse gases, while China is currently the largest one.
美国在历史上是世界最大的温室气体排放国，而目前最大的排放国是中国。
In Inner Mongolia, official statistics from the vast municipal area of Hulunbuir, also known as Hulunbei’er, indicate that the economic loss from the recent drought has been 5.3 billion renminbi, or $780 million.
在内蒙古面积巨大的呼伦贝尔市，官方统计数据显示，近期的干旱已经造成了53亿元人民币的经济损失。
The municipality is a rural area with grasslands and herders that abuts Russia and lies immediately west of the region once known as Manchuria.
该市是一个乡村地区，有草原和牧民，毗邻俄罗斯，曾经被称为满洲的地区就在它的东边。
Officials in Hulunbuir said 16 million acres of pastureland had been affected.
呼伦贝尔的官员说，全市草场受旱面积9876万亩。
They said the local government had spent $16 million for aid and relief and deployed 13,300 people to tackle the problem.
他们表示，地方政府投入抗旱资金1.09亿元，投入抗旱人员13.3万人。
Another large municipal area, Tongliao, has also been severely affected. Photographs by Xinhua, the state news agency, show crops in dry soil and farmers spraying their fields with water.
另一个大城市通辽的旱情也很严重。官方通讯社新华社的照片显示了干旱土地上的农作物，以及农民浇灌农田的场面。
From the air, vast patches of land appear brown and lifeless.
从空中看，大片土地呈现棕色，毫无生机。
The state news media began reporting on the drought last month and said conditions were turning grim because of a lack of rainfall since mid-April.
国家新闻媒体上个月开始报道这场旱灾，称自从4月中旬以来，由于缺少降水，旱情正在恶化。
Xinhua said that by late May, 120,000 people and a half-million livestock were grappling with a shortage of drinking water.
新华社说，截至5月下旬，有12万人、50万头大牲畜因旱饮水困难。
The report cited Chen Lei, minister of water resources.
该报道引用了水利部部长陈雷的说法。
At the time, 5.5 million people had joined in efforts to alleviate the drought, Mr. Chen said. They were trying to help by drilling wells or working on pumping stations to irrigate crops.
陈雷说，已经有550万人加入了抗旱行动。他们试图通过打井或建泵站进行抗旱浇地。
Large parts of northern China experienced extremely high temperatures in May.
5月份，华北大部分地区经历了极端高温。
A few brief rain spells at the end of the month brought hope of relief, but the heat and drought have persisted.
虽然月底出现短暂降雨，带来了缓解旱情的希望，但是高温和干旱并未消退。
The Chinese government has made great efforts to try to halt or turn back the growth of deserts in northern China, and especially in Inner Mongolia.
中国政府一直在大力遏制或扭转中国北方地区沙漠的扩张，特别是在内蒙古。