HONG KONG — Piles of unsold coal line rural roads in north-central China. Iron ore mines near Beijing are operating at a fraction of capacity. Chinese farm products are even increasingly scorned by the Chinese consumer.
香港——未售出的煤炭一堆堆放在华北中部乡村公路的两旁；北京附近的铁矿石矿场只开动了一小部分产能；中国农产品越发受到中国消费者的轻视。
While China remains nearly self-sufficient in all these categories, the growth in each of them is now supplied increasingly by imports from other emerging markets. Economists and investors around the world have been fretting in recent days about the effects on smaller emerging markets if China’s economic slowdown worsens. Those concerns are driving down share prices and currencies from Jakarta to Istanbul to Buenos Aires. They helped to force India’s central bank to raise short-term interest rates unexpectedly on Tuesday.
虽然在所有这些领域，中国基本上都保持了自给自足，但是每个领域的增长，如今都越来越多地借助从其他新兴市场的进口。世界各地的经济学家和投资者近来感到担忧：如果中国经济放缓加剧，会对较小的新兴市场造成影响。这些担忧导致了从雅加达到伊斯坦布尔、布宜诺斯艾利斯等地的股价下跌和货币贬值，并跟其他因素一起作用，迫使印度央行本周二出人意料地提高了短期利率。
Yet the most vulnerable producers these days may not be the coal mines in Indonesia, palm oil plantations in Malaysia or soybean farms in Brazil, but the farms and particularly the mines in China itself.
然而，目前最容易受到冲击的生产商可能不是印尼的煤矿，不是马来西亚的棕榈油种植园，也不是巴西的大豆农场，而是中国本土的农场，尤其是矿场。
China’s role as the largest buyer of a long list of commodities, from iron ore to palm oil, means that emerging markets are heavily exposed to any economic slowdown. But their ability to capture ever larger shares of the Chinese market at the expense of China’s commodity producers has limited at least somewhat the exposure of emerging markets.
从铁矿石到棕榈油的多种大宗商品，它们最大的买家都是中国，这意味着中国经济任何程度的放缓，都会给新兴市场造成严重冲击。但它们不断从中国本土生产商那里夺取中国市场更大份额的能力，至少在某种程度上缓解了新兴市场的风险。
China’s steadily strengthening renminbi, persistent inflation and soaring blue-collar wages have combined to erase much or all of the cost advantage of domestic production for a long list of commodities. At the same time, tightening pollution regulations have made it harder for steel mills to use China’s low-grade iron ore reserves or for power plants to burn China’s low-quality coal.
对于多种大宗商品，中国稳步走高的人民币汇率，持续发生的通货膨胀，以及飙升的蓝领工人工资，都从很大程度上，或者全部抵消了国内生产的成本优势。与此同时，中国污染法规收紧，使得钢铁厂利用本土低品质铁矿石，以及电厂使用本土低质煤炭也变得更加困难。
“With the increasing focus on the environment and high costs in some industries in China, China seems to be importing more of the key commodities they need,” said Bruce Diesen, an analyst at the Oslo-based investment bank Carnegie.
“随着人们越来越关注环境问题，以及中国一些产业成本较高，中国似乎正在增加它所需要的关键大宗商品的进口。”布鲁斯·迪森(Bruce Diesen)表示，他是位于奥斯陆的投资银行卡内基(Carnegie)的分析师。
Another profound change in Chinese society is also having an impact. Hundreds of millions of Chinese are eating more meat and drinking more milk. The extra animal feed, as well as chicken, beef and dairy products for that shift is coming increasingly from farms as distant as Uruguay and Argentina. Chinese farms have grown uncompetitive because they tend to be small and inefficient and have a reputation for contaminated food. Charter rates for bulk freighters, often a good leading indicator of China’s commodity imports, have stayed strong. The shipping industry is betting that even when long-distance freight charges are included, new mines opening in Brazil and Australia will outcompete mines in China.
中国社会的另一个深刻的变化也正在带来影响。数亿中国人正在增加肉类和牛奶的消费量。这种转变导致越来越多的饲料，以及鸡肉、牛肉和奶制品，正在从乌拉圭和阿根廷的农场远道而来。中国本土养殖场往往规模较小、效率低下，而且有生产“受污染食品”的恶名，因此缺乏竞争力。对于中国大宗商品进口来说，散装货轮的租船费率常常是一个能恰当显示其形势的重要指标，而它保持了强劲势态。航运业公司坚信，即便把长途运输费用包含在内，巴西和澳大利亚的新矿也比中国本土的矿业更具竞争力。
“That new capacity will probably squeeze out more expensive domestic capacity for iron ore and coal,” said Timothy Huxley, the chief executive of Wah Kwong Maritime Transport Holdings, a Hong Kong shipping company.
“这些新的产能可能会压缩中国本土成本更加昂贵的铁矿和煤矿产能。”香港航运公司华光海运控股有限公司(Wah Kwong Maritime Transport Holdings)的首席执行官蒂莫西·赫胥黎(Timothy Huxley)说。
To be sure, emerging markets face many more pressures right now about the strength of China’s demand for commodities. A gradual tapering in the pace of monetary stimulus by the American Federal Reserve, where the monetary policy committee is meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday, has sent interest rates drifting higher in the United States, drawing in investment dollars that might have previously gone to Bangkok or Rio de Janeiro.
可以肯定的是，新兴市场担心中国对大宗商品的需求，面临着更多压力。货币政策委员周二 、周三与美联储(American Federal Reserve)会晤。而美联储已决定逐渐放缓货币刺激计划的步伐，这已经导致美国利率升高，吸引了一些以前可能会曼谷或里约热内卢的资金。
Rising exports to China by emerging markets also mean that if a downturn in China is severe enough, emerging market exporters will be affected along with Chinese commodity producers. China could also take a variety of measures to keep out imports during a downturn and protect domestic producers, such as government subsidies — although many of these possible measures would violate China’s commitments to the World Trade Organization.
新兴市场对中国的出口增加，也意味着如果中国经济严重低迷，新兴市场的出口会跟中国大宗商品生产商一起受到冲击。中国也可以采取政府补贴等多种措施，在经济低迷时期削减进口，保护本土生产商——尽管很多这类措施可能会违反中国对世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)的承诺。
Many emerging markets, including India, have fought losing battles with inflation for years and are now struggling to maintain the value of their currencies. After announcing earlier this month a two-year plan to slow inflation in consumer prices, the Reserve Bank of India announced on Tuesday that it was pushing up its benchmark short-term interest rates by a quarter percent.
很多新兴市场，包括印度在内，已经在通胀问题上吃过多年败仗，目前正在大费心思避免本国货币贬值。本月早些时候，印度储备银行(Reserve Bank of India)宣布了一项为期两年的计划，旨在减缓消费者价格的通胀，周二它又宣布将把基准短期利率上调四分之一个百分点。
Raghuram G. Rajan, the central bank’s governor, acted even though his country’s manufacturing sector, heavily dependent on borrowing and sensitive to any increase in rates, is already slowing. “It is only by bringing down inflation to a low and stable level that monetary policy can contribute to reviving consumption and investment in a sustainable way,” he said in a statement.
尽管严重依赖贷款的印度制造业对利率的任何上调都很敏感，而且已经出现了放缓趋势，但印度央行行长古拉迈·G·拉詹(Raghuram G. Rajan)还是决定提高利率。“只有把通货膨胀降低到一个稳定的低水平上，货币政策才能以一种可持续的方式促进消费和投资的恢复，”他在一份声明中表示。
If China’s economy slows further in the coming months, that would not just hurt demand and world prices for raw materials. It would also reduce demand and prices for a wide range of industrial materials, like steel, produced in many emerging markets. An HSBC survey last week found considerable gloom among many Chinese manufacturers. Some wholesalers and retailers in China say that they also see signs of weakness in the crucial shopping period ahead of Chinese New Year celebrations beginning on Friday. The period is nearly as important for Chinese retailers as Christmas is for many Western retailers.
如果中国经济在未来几个月内进一步放缓，那么就不会只有原材料需求及全球价格受到冲击了。大量工业材料也会面临需求减少和价格降低，比如很多新兴市场都在生产的钢。汇丰银行(HSBC)上周发布的一项调查称，中国的很多制造商都很悲观。一些中国的批发商和零售商说，他们也发现春节节前购物期出现了疲软迹象，春节从本周五开始，之前的这段购物期非常重要，它之于中国零售商就如同圣诞购物季之于很多西方零售商。
“Business this month is down 20 percent over the previous few months. I don’t really know why, but people’s desire for spending is just not there,” said Michael Liu, a wholesaler of photo frames, bangles and other crafts in Guangzhou.
“本月的业务比前几个月减少了20%。我不知道确切原因，但人们就是没有消费欲，”在广州做相框、手镯等工艺品批发生意的刘姓商人(Michael Liu)说。
Yet the prospects for emerging markets are not entirely grim. Many economists have focused on slowing growth in the value of Chinese imports, and warned about troubles in emerging markets. That partly reflects that commodity prices have been falling. But the tonnage of Chinese commodity imports has kept rising.
然而，新兴市场的前景倒也不是一片黑暗。许多经济学家把目光集中在中国进口商品价值的增长放缓上，警告新兴市场会面临困难。那在一定程度上反映了大宗商品的价格在下降。但中国的大宗商品进口吨位还在不断上升。
In December, China’s imports were only up 4.3 percent in dollar terms from a year earlier. But they were up nearly twice as much, 7.8 percent, in terms of tonnage, according to China’s General Administration of Customs.
中国海关总署数据显示，12月，中国的进口以美元计算仅较上年同期增长了4.3%。但以吨位计却几乎是其两倍，为7.8%。
That rising tonnage of imports has been hurting domestic production. China’s coal imports have doubled in the last three years, even as many new open-pit mines have begun production in Inner Mongolia and Xinjiang. That is causing considerable hardship and closings at underground coal mines in traditional coal-mining provinces like Shanxi and Shaanxi, just as many underground coal mines closed in Wales and Appalachia in the 1970s and 1980s when they could not compete with open-pit mines in emerging markets or Montana.
进口吨位的增加已经给中国本土生产造成打击。即便内蒙古和新疆有很多新的露天矿已经开始产煤，中国进口的煤炭量在过去三年还是翻了一番。这给山西和陕西等传统产煤大省的地下煤矿造成了相当大的困难，导致它们大量关闭，这种情况就像在20世纪70年代和80年代，威尔士和阿巴拉契亚的很多地下煤矿被迫关闭，因为它们无力与新兴市场或蒙大拿的露天矿竞争。
The iron ore industry in Hebei province, near Beijing, has also been struggling as growth in steel production has stalled even as iron ore imports pour in from South Africa, Iran, Brazil and Australia. While Chinese statistics still show small year-on-year increases in the iron ore tonnage that is mined domestically, commodities experts say that such figures are unreliable.
在北京附近的河北省，铁矿业也一直在挣扎求生；虽然南非、伊朗、巴西和澳大利亚的铁矿石纷纷涌入，中国的钢产量增长也已经停滞。虽然中国的统计数据依然显示，国内开采的铁矿石吨数仍然有少量的年升幅，但大宗商品专家说，这些数字并不可靠。
The domestic tonnage figures are not adjusted for the declining percentage of iron in the ore; richer deposits are being exhausted and replaced with lower-grade deposits.
中国的铁矿石产量数据没有对矿石中铁含量下降的情况进行过调整；实际上中国含铁量比较丰富的铁矿床将要耗尽，正在使用低品质矿床充数。
The weakening value of iron ore production, together with low prices and costly pollution controls in the steel sector, is affecting the entire economy in Hebei.
铁矿石品质降低，再加上钢铁行业低廉的价格和昂贵的污染控制费用，正在影响河北的整体经济。
“Business has not been good during the past few months, it is down 20 percent compared to the same period a year ago,” said Yi Jinwei, the marketing manager of a construction materials wholesaler in Hebei’s Handan City. “The economy is just not what it used to be.”
“过去几个月的生意一直不好，业务量比上年同期减少了20%，”河北省邯郸市一家建筑材料批发商的销售经理易金卫（Yi Jinwei，音译）说，“经济状况今不如昔。”