DONGXIANPO, China — Just outside the southwest border of Beijing, a new coal-fired power and heating plant is rising in Dongxianpo, a rural town in Hebei Province. Cement mixers roll onto the site. Cranes tower above a landscape of metal girders.
河北东仙坡——就在北京西南的边界之外，一个新的燃煤发电及供热厂正在河北省的村庄东仙坡施工兴建。水泥搅拌车在施工地点开动，起重机下方是一片金属网架。
When finished, the plant, run by a company owned by the Beijing government, is expected to have a generating capacity of 700 megawatts of power, more than the total of similar plants in Ohio. But whether it will actually be used to its fullest is questionable, despite the investment of $580 million.
这座电厂完工后，将由北京市政府下属的一家公司经营，预计装机容量将达到700兆瓦，比俄亥俄州所有类似电厂的总发电量还高。但它是否会满负荷运转却值得怀疑，尽管它的投资高达5.8亿美元。
That is because the plant is scheduled to come online in three years amid a glut of coal-fired power plants — an astounding 155 planned projects received a permit this year alone, with total capacity equal to nearly 40 percent of that of operational coal power plants in the United States.
这是因为该电厂计划于三年后投入运行，届时会有一批燃煤电厂过剩——令人惊讶的是，仅今年就有155个这类计划项目获得批准，它们的总装机容量差不多相当于美国燃煤电厂的40%。
China’s economic slowdown and the government’s pledges to use more renewable and nuclear energy make some of the country’s existing plants and most or all of the 155 new ones unnecessary, according to interviews with officials and scholars, a review of public statistics and a new report on the “coal power bubble” by Greenpeace East Asia. There are already too many plants, as shown by a steady decline in the plants’ average operating hours since 2013.
中国经济增速放缓，以及政府承诺使用更多的可再生能源和核能，让中国现有的一些电厂以及155座新厂中的大部分甚至全部都成为了多余。不仅是接受采访的官员和学者表达了这种观点，公开的统计数据，以及绿色和平东亚分部(Greenpeace East Asia)关于“煤电泡沫”的一份新报告，也都表达了同样的观点。现有电厂已经太多，自从2013年以来，它们的平均运行小时数就开始出现持续下滑。
“China already has more coal capacity than it will ever need,” Zhang Boting, vice chairman of the China Society for Hydropower Engineering, said in an interview. “A few years down the road, we’ll see what a waste the plants are. We have seen this happen to the steel and cement industries.”
“中国的煤炭产能已经超过了以后的需求，”中国水力发电工程学会副主席张博庭在接受采访时说。“今后数年，我们将看到这些工厂造成的浪费。钢铁和水泥等行业已经出现了这种情况。”
In the first nine months of this year, state-owned companies received preliminary or full approval to build the 155 coal power plants that have a total capacity of 123 gigawatts, the report said. That capacity is equal to 15 percent of China’s coal-fired power capacity at the end of 2014.
该报告称，今年头九个月，国有企业获得了建设这155座燃煤电厂的初步或完全的批准，它们的总装机容量为123万千瓦；这相当于2014年年底中国燃煤发电能力的15%。
The construction boom — with capital costs estimated by Greenpeace at $74 billion — is a clear sign that China remains entrenched in investment-driven growth, despite promises by leaders to transform the economic model to one based on consumer spending.
这股建设热潮——绿色和平估计投资达到740亿美元——是一个明显的迹象，表明尽管中国领导层承诺转变经济模式，靠消费支出带动经济增长，但该国仍深陷在靠投资推动增长的模式中。
It also raises questions about whether China is weaning itself off coal as quickly as it can and whether officials are sufficiently supporting nonfossil fuel sources over coal, which is championed by some state-owned enterprises. China is the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world and the main driver of climate change, and has some of the worst air pollution.
这也引起了一些人的疑问：中国是否能尽可能快地摆脱对煤矿的依赖，官员是否可以不顾一些国有企业对煤炭的支持，全力推动非化石燃料来源的使用。中国是世界上最大的温室气体排放国，也是导致气候变化的主要推动国，而且中国空气污染也属于最严重的级别。
Conflict within the system is rising. Renewable-energy interests — wind, solar and hydropower — are pushing back against coal-fired power plants, which have 40-year life spans. They say the rising number of coal plants prevents other energy sources from selling electricity on the grid and attracting more investment. They want the government to move faster with its promised “green dispatch,” which means giving priority to low-carbon electricity sources.
系统内部的冲突在加剧。可再生能源，即风电、太阳能发电和水电利益集团一直反对修建只有40年寿命的火电厂。他们称，火电厂会越来越多地妨碍其他能源企业在电网上卖电，以及妨碍吸引更多投资。它们希望政府加快推进其承诺的“绿色通道”。这意味着优先发展低碳电力供应。
“Why do we see so much discarded water, wind and solar resources everywhere?” Mr. Zhang said. “Because all those coal plants need market share. Local governments need to maintain stability and employment, and to do so they need to give all the coal plants just enough market share to survive.”
“为什么看到到处都有这么多水电、风电和太阳能发电资源被废弃，”张博庭说。“因为所有这些火电厂都需要市场份额。地方政府需要维持稳定和就业，要做到这一点，它们需要给这些火电厂够其维持生存的市场份额。”
Utility contracts guarantee that coal-fired plants operate a minimum number of hours to sell power to the grid, while renewable sources have no such guarantee. Wind power capacity has been growing in China, but so has the amount of wasted wind power, called curtailment, according to National Energy Administration statistics. In the first half of 2015, the rate of curtailment was 15 percent, almost twice that of the same period in 2014.
公用事业合同保证了火电厂运营时间极少也能向电网卖电，而可再生能源则没有这样的保证。中国的风电容量一直在增加，但从国家能源局的统计数据来看，白白浪费的风电，即弃风限电也在增加。2015年上半年的限电率是15%，几乎是去年同期的两倍。
The State Grid Corporation of China, the country’s largest power distributor, did not respond to a request for comment. It is also one of China’s biggest owners of coal-fired power plants.
中国最大的电力供应商国家电网公司未回复置评请求。它也是旗下火电厂最多的公司之一。
Qin Haiyan, secretary general of the Chinese Wind Energy Association, was quoted by China Electric Power News, an official industry newspaper, as saying that if the country’s appetite for new coal-fired plants was not curbed, “the conflict between coal and wind will become even more fierce in the next few years.”
官方行业报纸《中国电力报》援引中国风能协会秘书长秦海岩的话说，中国对新建火电厂的胃口如果不加以限制，“未来几年风火矛盾将更加尖锐”。
Mr. Zhang, the hydropower official, said the dominance of coal power had led to “a sharp decline in investments in renewable energy.”
前述水电官员张博庭说，煤电占主导地位导致“可再生能源投资急剧下降”。
Hydropower is generated by provincial or central state-owned enterprises. The China Electricity Council, a power industry association, said in a report this year that investment in hydropower had dropped for three straight years, and that the amount in the first quarter of 2015 was half that of the same period in 2012.
水力发电由省级或中央一级的国有企业负责。电力行业组织中国电力企业联合会在今年的一份报告中称，水电投资连续三年下降，2015年一季度的投资仅为2012年同期的一半。
Nevertheless, China is building more renewable and nuclear energy capacity. The government has said that by 2020, 15 percent of energy consumption will be met by sources beyond fossil fuel. The growth in renewables and nuclear power is expected to meet an estimated 3 to 4 percent annual growth in electricity demand in the coming years, which makes new coal-fired plants unnecessary, said Lauri Myllyvirta, a main author of the Greenpeace East Asia report.
然而，中国仍在建设更多的可再生能源和核能容量。政府表示到2015年，15%的能源消耗将由化石燃料以外的能源提供。绿色和平东亚分部那份报告的主要作者洛里·米利维尔塔(Lauri Myllyvirta)表示，接下来的几年里，对可再生能源发电和核电的需求预计会实现3%到4%的年增速。
Despite the construction boom, Mr. Myllyvirta and some scholars say there is little danger that China’s coal consumption will rise significantly, since a slower economy and flattening coal use appear to be the new norm. President Xi Jinping said China was aiming for 6.5 percent economic growth from 2016 to 2020. The construction boom means that China is not investing in alternative fuel sources as quickly as it could, critics say, and coal use may stay at or near the current high level for years.
尽管出现了建设热潮，但米利维尔塔和一些学者认为，中国煤炭消耗量大幅上升的可能性不大，因为经济放缓和用煤量日渐减少似乎成了新常态。中国国家主席习近平称，中国的目标是从2016年到2020年，让经济保持6.5%的增速。批评人士称，建设热潮意味着中国没有尽快投资替代能源，用煤量可能会多年保持在目前的高水平或接近这个水平。
“You’re wasting a massive amount of capital that could be spent on renewable energy to generate green power that is needed,” Mr. Myllyvirta said. “And there’s a longer-term question of whether you will keep investing in renewables when you have all these coal plants lying around.”
“这是在浪费大量资金，它们本可以用于可再生能源建设，带来所需的绿色能源，”米利维尔塔说。“更长远的问题是，如果周边有这么多燃煤电厂，你还会持续投资可再生能源吗？”
Existing coal plants are operating well below full capacity, with the average number of operating hours on the decline, the Greenpeace report said. Last year, thermal power plants, mostly coal-fired, operated 4,706 hours on average, 314 hours less than in 2013, according to the National Energy Administration. “At any given moment, more than half of capacity is idle,” Mr. Myllyvirta said.
绿色和平的报告显示，现存的燃煤电厂都远远没有达到满负荷运转，它们的平均开工时间正在下降。国家能源局的数据显示，去年大部分都以煤为燃料的火电厂平均开工时间为4706小时，比2013年少了314个小时。“在任何一个时间点，都有超过一半的容量在闲置，”米利维尔塔说。
The report recommended that officials cancel many projects and that the central government “urgently institute a ban on issuing new permits for coal-fired power plants.”
该报告建议政府官员取消许多项目，还建议中央政府“尽快发布禁令，不允许再批准新的燃煤发电站项目。”
Though the total amount of coal-fired power capacity has grown annually, China is shutting down some older and smaller plants, especially in more populated eastern regions. By 2020, the central government aims to have coal-fired power generated mainly in western provinces and transmitted to the east via ultra-high-voltage lines. But Greenpeace researchers found that eastern provinces were still handing out large numbers of permits to build new coal plants.
尽管燃煤发电站的总发电容量每年都在增加，不过中国正在关停一些时间比较久和规模比较小的发电站，尤其是在人口密集的华东地区。中央政府计划至2020年实现主要在西部省份发展燃煤发电，然后将电力通过超高压输电线输送到东部地区。但绿色和平的研究人员发现，东部省份还在批准大量新火电厂建设项目。
The report said Jiangsu Province had issued permits for 17 plants this year, while Shandong Province had issued permits for 16 — the second and third most plant approvals in the country. That goes against central policy, since pollution regulations require those provinces to curb coal use.
报告显示，江苏省今年批准了17个火电站项目，山东省批准了16个，在全国各省份此类审批数量上分列第二和第三位。这与中央政策相悖，因为环境污染管理条例要求这些省份控制燃煤量。
Mr. Myllyvirta said that even the western provinces did not need so many new coal-fired plants because the current overcapacity and planned expansion of renewable and nuclear energy sources can meet the expected rise in demand for transmitted electricity.
米利维尔塔表示，即便是西部省份也不需要建太多的燃煤发电站，因为以目前的过剩容量，再加上计划中的可再生能源与核能源项目的增加，可以满足预想的输电需求增加。
Greenpeace estimated that if the 155 plants operated at typical levels for new projects, they would emit 560 million metric tons of carbon dioxide annually, equal to Brazil’s total energy emissions. They would also spew huge amounts of toxic pollutants, and 60 percent would operate in arid areas or ones with chronic water shortages, exacerbating those problems.
绿色和平估计，如果155座发电站都保持新项目惯有的运转水平，每年将会排放5.6亿公吨二氧化碳，相当于巴西的整体能源排放量。它们还会排放巨量有毒污染物，而且这些项目有60%都是在干旱地区或长期缺水的地区，会进一步加剧这些问题。
The increase in permit approvals followed the enactment of a policy in March that allows provincial environmental officials rather than the central Ministry of Environmental Protection to approve projects.
新审批项目是在政府今年3月通过一项政策之后开始增加的，该政策允许省环境官员而非国家环保部审批项目。
Provinces have an economic interest in keeping coal-fired power generation close to home, despite concerns over air pollution. Provincial state-owned enterprises running the plants have a guaranteed source of revenue. Also, officials can tax coal-power plants but not renewable-energy projects. And plant construction boosts economic growth, a key measure in evaluations of provincial officials.
而各个省份都有经济利益驱动，促使它将燃煤发电站建在近处，尽管也存在空气污染的担忧。运营发电站的省级国有企业可以因此有稳定的收入来源。并且，地方政府可以向燃煤发电站收税，而新能源项目是无税可收的。发电站建设还可以促进地方经济增长，这是省级官员考核的一个关键指标。
The Beijing Jingneng Power Company, which is building the Zhuozhou plant here in Dongxianpo township, is owned by the Beijing government. This year, the company was forced to shut down a plant in Beijing because of an air pollution control regulation that calls for the elimination of all coal-fired plants in the city by 2017. But Jingneng had begun building the plant right across this border.
正在东仙坡镇建设涿州发电站的北京京能电力股份有限公司，是北京市政府下属企业。今年，该公司被迫关闭了北京的一个工厂，因为空气污染管理条例要求在2017年淘汰北京市所有燃煤发电站。但京能集团已经开始在刚刚越过北京市境外的区域建设发电站。