The head of China’s central bank and other top financial regulators offered new details on Tuesday on the country’s steps toward a more market-driven economy, including plans to liberalize interest rates as early as next year and to allow the establishment of the first privately owned official banks.
中国央行行长和其他高级金融监管者，就国家向更多地以市场为主导的经济迈进的情况，于周二透露了一些新细节，其中包括计划最早在明年实现利率自由化，以及允许成立第一批正式的民营银行。
Although the announcements signaled incremental progress in modernizing the country’s financial system and opening its still tightly controlled capital account, analysts welcomed the development.
尽管这些宣布意味着中国金融系统现代化以及开放受严格控制的资本账户的进展是渐进的，但仍受到分析人士的欢迎。
China’s leadership under President Xi Jinping laid out a program of bold, market-driven overhauls in November, but details on how and when these measures would be implemented have been slow in coming.
在国家主席习近平的领导下，中国领导层在去年11月制定了一项大胆的、以市场为导向的改革计划，但如何及何时实施这些措施的具体方案却姗姗来迟。
“China’s financial reforms are likely to advance faster than many had expected in 2014,” HSBC analysts led by Qu Hongbin, co-head of Asian economic research, wrote Tuesday in a research note.
以亚洲经济研究负责人之一曲宏斌为首的汇丰银行分析师团队在周二的一篇研究报告中写道，“中国的金融改革在2014年的进程，可能比许多人预期的要快。”
Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People’s Bank of China, said he expected the country to remove its ceiling on bank deposit rates — the last and most significant government restriction on interest rates — as early as next year.
中国人民银行行长周小川表示，他希望中国最早能在明年解除对银行存款利率的上限，这是政府对利率最后的、也是最重要的一个限制。
“The final liberalization of deposit rates is the last step of interest-rate marketization,” Mr. Zhou told reporters on the sidelines of an annual meeting of China’s rubber-stamp legislature, the National People’s Congress. “Since many other interest rates have been liberalized, deposit rate liberalization is definitely on our agenda. I personally believe it’s very likely to be achieved in one or two years.”
周小川在全国人大年度会议会场外告诉记者，“存款利率最后要放开，这应该也是利率市场化中最后一步，因为其他的很多利率都已经放开了，存款利率放开肯定是在计划之中。我个人认为，是很可能在最近一两年就能够实现。”全国人大是中国的橡皮图章立法机构。
China moved last summer to lift restrictions on lending rates, leaving banks free to charge what they wanted for loans. At the same time, policy makers have allowed a surge in Internet companies experimenting with the sale of high-yielding financial products that pay ordinary Chinese as much as 7 percent annual interest on their investments, a development that analysts have likened to de facto interest rate liberalization.
去年夏天，中国取消了对贷款利率的限制，银行能自由调整他们想从贷款获取的利息。与此同时，政策制定者还允许一些互联网公司尝试经营高收益金融产品，这种金融产品给普通中国人的投资支付高达7%的年利率，分析人士认为这种做法实际上无异于利率自由化。
But China retains a government-mandated cap on how much the nation’s traditional banks are allowed to pay on savings deposits. That ceiling is set at 3 percent annual interest for benchmark 1-year household deposits and as low as 0.35 percent on demand deposits, where many savers park their funds.
然而，中国依然对传统银行能为储蓄存款支付多少利率施加强制性上限。这个上限给作为基准的1年期家庭存款定的年利率是3%，活期存款利率的上限定只有0.35%，许多中国储户的钱都存在这些银行里。
In addition to the potential timeline for ending interest rate controls, regulators also signaled progress on Tuesday toward opening the banking system up to greater competition.
除了给取消对利率限制的可能时间进程发出信号外，监管者还在周二暗示了开放银行系统的进程，这将让银行业出现更多的竞争。
Speaking at the same news conference as Mr. Zhou, Shang Fulin, the head of China’s banking industry regulator, announced that the government had approved the establishment of five new, privately owned banks by a group of investors.
中国银行监管机构负责人尚福林，在周小川讲话的同一次新闻发布会上宣布，政府已经批准成立五家由一群投资者私人持股的新银行。
While China has some banks that include comparatively low levels of direct or indirect government ownership, these institutions tend to be smaller and less influential than banks where the state has majority control.
虽然中国有这样一些银行，其中政府直接或者间接持股的份额相对较低，但它们多是小型银行，影响力都小于那些由国家持多数股份的大银行。
For example, China’s 12 “joint-stock” banks — China Minsheng Bank being the best known — were, on average, 41 percent owned by private capital at the end of 2012.
比如，中国的12家合资银行在2012年底平均有41%的股份由私人资本持有，这些银行中人们最熟知的是民生银行。