BEIJING — China has made a formal diplomatic complaint to North Korea after a soldier fleeing the North killed four Chinese citizens in late December during a robbery attempt, according to a statement on Monday from a Chinese official and news reports from China and South Korea.
北京——据中国官员周一发布的声明以及来自中国和韩国的新闻报道，中国已就一名朝鲜逃兵去年12月在企图行劫时开枪打死4名中国公民一事，向朝鲜提出正式交涉。
The killings took place near the border between China and North Korea. A Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, said at a regularly scheduled news conference in Beijing on Monday that the North Korean had been detained by Chinese security forces and that the Public Security Bureau in China was “handling the case according to law.”
枪杀事件发生在中国与朝鲜的边境附近。外交部发言人华春莹周一在北京的例行记者会上表示，该朝鲜士兵已被中国安全部队拘留，中国公安部门“正依法处理该案”。
A report by Xinhua, the state news agency, said the soldier had crossed the border into China in search of food. It gave no other details.
据国家新闻社新华社的一篇英文报道，该士兵越境进入中国来寻找食物。报道没有给出其他细节。
A South Korean report by the Yonhap News Agency said the killings took place on Dec. 28 in the village of Nanping, north of the Tumen River, which marks the border between North Korea and China.
韩国的韩联讯报道称，枪杀事件发生的时间是12月28日，地点是图们江以北的南坪村，图们江是朝鲜和中国的分界线。
The Yonhap report said the deserter had a gun and carried out the killings in the victims’ homes. One person was also wounded, the report said, adding that the Chinese police and military personnel caught the soldier after a manhunt.
韩联社报道说，逃兵携带一支枪，他在遇难者家中把人枪杀。报道称，还有一人受伤，并称，中国的警察和军事人员对士兵进行追捕后将其抓获。
A report in Beijing News, citing the head of the village, said the four people killed in Nanping were two older couples. The two households were said to have had children working in South Korea, and the parents lived alone.
《新京报》的报道援引村负责人的话说，该村的四位被杀者是两对老年夫妇。据说这两家人的孩子在韩国工作，父母独自生活。
The North Korean soldier broke into the home of a man with the surname Che; ate some of his food; stole 100 renminbi, or about $16; and wounded Mr. Che, the article said.
报道称，该朝鲜士兵闯村民车某家，吃了一些他的东西，偷走了100元人民币，并将车某打伤。
The northeast border with China is a common escape route for North Korean defectors. But in recent years, there have been fewer reports of defectors arriving in the area, perhaps in part because Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader, has ordered tighter security at the frontier.
朝鲜与中国东北的边境是朝鲜叛逃者常用的判逃通道。但近年来，叛逃的报道出现的次数少了，也许部分原因是朝鲜领导人金正恩下令加强了边境的安全措施。
China has traditionally been North Korea’s closest ally, and opinions vary on what the Chinese leadership thinks of the North Korean government.
中国在传统上是朝鲜最亲密的盟友，人们对中国领导人如何看待朝鲜政府的问题有不同的观点。
Some American officials say they believe China has grown tired of North Korea’s behavior. For example, a retired Chinese general, Wang Hongguang, published an essay in a state-run newspaper last month saying that China should stop cleaning up North Korea’s “mess” and that North Korea was fated to collapse.
一些美国官员说，他们认为中国已经厌倦了朝鲜的行为。比如，中国的退休将军王洪光上个月曾在一份官方报纸发表文章说，中国不应再给朝鲜“擦屁股”，因为朝鲜注定要崩溃。
But some North Korea analysts say that Beijing remains a strong supporter and that the United States should not count on China to turn on its neighbor in any significant manner.
但也有一些朝鲜分析人士说，北京仍是朝鲜的强大支持者，认为美国不应指望中国会对其近邻以任何明显方式翻脸。
President Obama, citing evidence gathered by the F.B.I., has said that North Korea was behind a large-scale hacking attack in November against Sony Pictures. Though some cybersecurity experts say the case against North Korea is thin, the White House has asked for China’s help in reining in North Korean hackers and has announced new economic sanctions against Pyongyang.
美国总统奥巴马引用美国联邦调查局收集的证据称，朝鲜是去年11月对索尼影业公司进行大规模黑客攻击的背后推手。尽管一些网络安全专家认为，指责朝鲜的证据不足，但白宫已要求中国帮助遏制朝鲜的黑客，并已对平壤宣布了新的经济制裁。