CHENJIAWAN, China — The farm-to-table process in China starts in villages like this one in the agricultural heartland. Food from the fields of Ge Songqing and her neighbors ends up in their kitchens or in the local market, and from there to other provinces. The foods are staples of Chinese cooking: rice, cabbage, carrots, turnips and sweet potatoes.
中国陈家湾——在中国，从农田到餐桌的过程始于像陈家湾这样处于农业中心区的村庄。葛松青（Ge Songqing，音译）和邻居地里长出的农作物，最后不是进了他们的厨房，就是送到本地市场，然后再从那里运输到其他省份。这些是中国烹饪中用到的主要作物：大米、白菜、胡萝卜、萝卜和红薯。
But the fields are ringed by factories and irrigated with water tainted by industrial waste. Levels of toxic heavy metals in the wastewater here are among the highest in China, and residents fear the soil is similarly contaminated. Though they have no scientific proof, they suspect that a spate of cancer deaths is linked to the pollution, and they worry about levels of lead in the children’s blood.
但他们的农田被工厂环绕，灌溉使用的是工业废料污染的水。这里的废水中有毒重金属的水平是全国最高的，居民担心土壤也遭受了类似的污染。虽然没有科学证据，但他们怀疑接连发生的癌症死亡事件跟这种污染有关，而且儿童血液中的铅水平也让他们担心。
“Of course I’m afraid,” said Ms. Ge, in her 60s, pointing to the smokestacks looming over her fields and the stagnant, algae-filled irrigation canals surrounding a home she shares with a granddaughter and her husband, a former soldier. “But we don’t do physical checkups. If we find out we have cancer, it’s only a burden on the children.”
“我当然害怕了，”60多岁的葛松青指着农田附近的烟囱以及水质污浊、长满藻类的灌溉沟渠说，她和孙女以及当过兵的孙女婿同住的房子周围都是这种沟渠。“但我们没有做过体检。如果我们发现自己患上癌症，只会给孩子们添负担。”
With awareness rising of China’s severe environmental degradation, there has been a surge of anxiety in the last year among ordinary Chinese and some officials over soil pollution in the country’s agricultural centers and the potential effects on the food chain. In recent years, the government has conducted widespread testing of soil across China, but it has declined to release the results, exacerbating the fear and making it more difficult for ordinary Chinese to judge what they eat and pinpoint the offending factories.
随着中国对环境严重恶化的意识不断提高，在过去一年里，对于农业中心区的土壤污染及其对食物链的潜在影响，普通中国人和一些官员的焦虑感急剧增加。近年来，政府已经进行对中国各地的土壤进行了大范围检测，但却拒绝公布调查结果，这不仅加剧了人们的恐惧，也让普通中国人更难判断自己吃的究竟是什么，更难识别出存在违规的工厂了。
On Monday, a vice minister of land and resources, Wang Shiyuan, gave an alarming glimpse of official findings when he said at a news conference in Beijing that eight million acres of China’s farmland, equal to the size of Maryland, had become so polluted that planting crops on it “should not be allowed.”
本周一，国土资源部副部长王世元略微透露了一点官方调查结果，数字非常惊人。他在北京的一个新闻发布会上说，中国有5000万亩耕地已经受到中重度污染而“不宜耕种”了，面积相当于美国的马里兰州。
A signal moment came in May, when officials in Guangdong Province, in the far south, said they had discovered excessive levels of cadmium in 155 batches of rice collected from markets, restaurants and storehouses. Of those, 89 were from Hunan Province, where Ms. Ge farms.
今年5月，一个危险信号从遥远的南方传来：广东省的官员说他们从市场、餐馆和仓库中发现了155批次的镉含量超标大米。其中89批次来自湖南，葛松青的农田所在的省份。
The report set off a nationwide scare. In June, China Daily, an official English-language newspaper, published an editorial saying that “soil contaminated with heavy metals is eroding the foundation of the country’s food safety and becoming a looming public health hazard.”
这份报告在全国范围内引发了恐慌。今年6月，官方英文报纸《中国日报》发表社论说，“土壤重金属污染侵蚀了国家粮食安全基础，成为了一个迫在眉睫的公共健康危害问题。”
One-sixth of China’s arable land — nearly 50 million acres — suffers from soil pollution, according to a book published this year by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The book, “Soil Pollution and Physical Health,” said that more than 13 million tons of crops harvested each year were contaminated with heavy metals, and 22 million acres of farmland were affected by pesticides.
中国环境保护部今年发行的一本书称，受重金属污染的耕地面积已达2000万公顷，占全国总耕地面积的六分之一。这本书名为《土壤污染与人体健康》，它写道，每年收获的农作物中，有逾1300万吨被重金属污染，约9万公顷农田受到农药影响。
But the government has refused to divulge details of the pollution, leaving farmers and consumers in the dark about the levels of contaminants in the food chain. The soil survey, completed in 2010, has been locked away as a “state secret.”
但政府一直拒绝透露污染的详情，让农民和消费者无从得知食物链中的污染物水平。2010年完成的土壤调查报告已被作为“国家机密”锁了起来。
“We think it’s always the right of the public to know how bad the situation is,” said Ma Tianjie, an advocate at Greenpeace East Asia who is researching toxic soil. “The Chinese public can accept the fact that our environment is polluted. The important thing is to give them the means to challenge polluters and improve the environment, and not just keep them in the dark.”
“我们认为，公众有权利知道情况有多糟，”绿色和平东亚分部(Greenpeace East Asia)的权益倡导者马天杰说，他正在研究有毒耕地的问题。“中国公众可以接受环境遭到污染这个事实。最重要的是给他们提供质疑制造污染者、改善环境的手段，而不是让他们不知情。”
There has been some acknowledgment of the problem by top officials. In January, the State Council, China’s cabinet, announced that it would set up systems to comprehensively monitor soil pollution by 2015 and promote pilot projects for treatment.
高层也有一些官员承认出了问题。今年1月，国务院宣布到2015年将建起一个全面监测土壤污染的系统，推广治理修复的试点项目。
Scholars say soil pollution is especially acute in Hunan Province, China’s rice bowl. In 2012, Hunan produced 17 million tons of rice, 16 percent of the national total, according to one market research company.
学者们指出，在中国的粮仓湖南省，土壤污染问题特别严重。一家市场调研公司的资料显示，2012年湖南出产了1700万吨大米，占全国总量的16％。
The province is also one of China’s top producers of nonferrous metals. As a result, it is the leading polluter of cadmium, chromium, lead and nonmetal arsenic, according to data collected in 2011 by the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, a research group based in Beijing.
湖南也是中国出产有色金属的大省。因此，根据总部设在北京的研究团体公共及环境事务研究所2011年收集的数据显示，它的镉、铬、铅和非金属砷污染也排名靠前。
That year, the province was responsible for 41 percent of the nation’s cadmium pollution when measured by its presence in industrial wastewater; the number has not dropped below 30 percent since 2004, when the data were first collected by the group. The wastewater is discharged in rivers, where it flows into irrigation channels.
对工业废水进行镉检测显示，2011年全国的镉污染有41%来自湖南省；这个数字自该组织2004年首次收集数据以来，就一直没有低于30%。废水被排放到河里，然后流入灌溉沟渠。
“There’s this pressure from the central government on Hunan to maintain a high level of yield for rice production,” said Mr. Ma, the Greenpeace program director. “On the other hand, rice production never gives you the same kind of GDP growth that industrial development gives you.”
“中央财政对湖南施加压力，让他们保持高水平的水稻产量。”绿色和平项目经理马天杰说。“另一方面，种植水稻带来的那种GDP增长永远没法跟发展工业比。”
Hunan’s abundance of raw metals has led to a push by provincial Communist Party leaders to develop industry there, leaving officials caught in what Mr. Ma calls a clash of two imperatives: “They have to feed the country with their rice, but they want to grow their economy.”
湖南拥有丰富的金属原料，因此省内的共产党领导人大力推动矿业发展，也让官员们陷入了马天杰所说的两个当务之急的冲突：“他们必须用湖南的大米养活这个国家，但他们也要发展自己的经济。”
Among the heavy metals seeping into Hunan’s crops, the worst may be cadmium, which at high levels has been linked to organ failure, weakening of bones and cancer, scientists say.
渗入湖南农作物的重金属中最糟糕的一种可能是镉，科学家们说，较高的镉含量会导致脏器功能衰竭、骨骼弱化和癌症。
“Cadmium has a tendency to accumulate in the kidney and liver,” Chen Nengchang, a scholar at the Guangdong Institute of Eco-environment and Soil Sciences. “When the accumulation reaches a certain point, it will pose a serious health risk for the organs.”
“镉会积聚在肾和肝里，”广东省生态环境与土壤研究所学者陈能场说。“积累到某个程度，就会给这些器官带来严重的健康风险。”
Cadmium that accumulates in rice plants not only gets into the rice on China’s tables, but also into animals’ meat, since the husks are fed to farm animals. There is no public data, though, that show the level of cadmium pollution in food.
积聚在水稻植株里的镉不仅进入了中国人餐桌上的大米，也渗入了家畜的肉中，因为农民用稻壳来喂家畜。但是，没有公开的数据显示食物中的镉污染水平。
Increasingly, Chinese news organizations are reporting on clusters of villages that have high rates of cancer, raising questions about the potential link between cancer and various forms of pollution. Some scientists are now conducting studies.
中国的新闻机构对一系列癌症高发村庄进行了越来越多的报道，提出了癌症和各种形式的污染之间可能存在的联系。一些科学家目前正在进行研究。
In July, the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Pollution published some findings from a study that drew a direct connection between pollution of the Huai River, which crosses several provinces in central China, and high rates of cancer among people living by the river.
7月，中国疾病和污染控制中心公布了一项研究，其中有多项发现表明，流经中国中部几个省份的淮河遭受污染，跟岸边居民癌症高发存在着直接的联系。
Here in Hunan, and particularly in this area administered by Hengyang City, which includes Ms. Ge’s village, stories of cancer are common.
在湖南，尤其是衡阳市管辖的这个区域——包括葛松青所在的村庄——患上癌症不算什么稀奇事。
One woman in the village of Liujiacun said her husband died in his late 50s of liver cancer. “He didn’t do heavy labor, didn’t smoke and he would drink only a little bit,” said the widow, who gave only her surname, Li. As in other nearby villages, crops here appear wilted and the village well is clogged with green muck. These were all sharp changes from Ms. Li’s childhood, she said. There are 20 people still living in Chenjiawan now, down from a population of about 100 in 2007, most of them elderly, Ms. Ge said, adding that many recent deaths had been from cancer.
刘家村的一名妇女说，她的丈夫患上肝癌，不到60岁就去世了。“他没有做重体力活，也不抽烟，只喝一点点酒，”这名妇女只是说自己姓李。跟附近的其他村庄一样，这里的农作物也出现了枯萎现象，村里的水井也被绿色淤泥堵住。李女士说，跟她童年时的情况相比，现在的变化非常大。陈家湾2007年时有100人，目前只有20人还住在这里，大多数是老年人，葛松青说。她还说近期有许多人因癌症过世。
There is no public data drawing a direction connection between these cases and the factories that loom over the farmland. But a 2009 study published in a Chinese journal said the area’s main crops were “at a high risk of heavy metal contamination,” and that only less than half could be rated “secure” or “good.”
没有公开数据把这些死亡和农田附近的工厂直接联系到一起。但2009年发表在一份中文期刊上一项研究说，该地区的主要农作物存在“重金属污染的高风险”，等级可以被评为“安全”或“好”的农作物还不到一半。
Chinese farmers “have such a profound connection with the land,” said Mr. Chen, the Guangdong soil scientist. “Since China’s household registration system makes it difficult for them to relocate to other areas, there is a sense of fatalism, and they accept whatever comes their way.”
中国农民“跟土地的联系很深”，广东土壤学家陈能场说。“由于中国的户籍制度让人难以搬迁到其他地区，他们有一种宿命感，接受他们遇到的任何事情。”
That sense of futility ripples throughout central Hunan. In one part of Hengyang, a mound of industrial waste that has destroyed adjacent farmland has drawn outraged comments from villagers on the Internet. But they expect no action because the nearby factories are tied to local officials, villagers said in interviews.
这种认命的心态在整个湖南省中部蔓延。在衡阳的某个地方，工业废水毁坏了附近的农田，愤怒的村民在互联网上对此进行了指责。但村民们在接受采访时说，他们对政府采取行动不抱期望，因为附近工厂都跟当地官员有关系。
“There’s no way to close these factories because of local protectionism,” said one farmer, Mr. Wang, who wanted to be identified on by his surname for fear of retribution.
“因为存在地方保护主义，这些工厂绝不会关停，”农民王先生说，他不想透露全名，因为怕遭到报复。
For Hunan officials, the mines and factories around Hengyang are central to maintaining the province’s leading role in the production of nonferrous metals, essential for basic needs like lead for car batteries. “It’s difficult to lobby against those companies,” said Sun Cheng, a spokesman for Green Hunan, an advocacy group.
对于湖南官员来说，衡阳周围的矿山和工厂就是维持湖南有色金属生产大省地位的中流砥柱，这些有色金属对一些基本需求是至关重要的，比如汽车蓄电池需要的铅。“很难说服他们关停这些公司，”权益倡导团体绿色潇湘的发言人孙成说。
Hunan officials are eager to expand the nonferrous metals industry. In a development plan for the five years ending in 2015, officials have pledged to increase the industry’s revenue by an annual rate of 18 percent, and have approved 80 new projects that have a total investment of $8.5 million. Farmers have little say in the province’s priorities.
湖南官员还盼望着扩大有色金属行业的规模。在2015年结束的一个五年计划中，政府官员们承诺要提高该行业的营收，实现18%的年增长率，并且已经批准了总投资为850万美元（约合人民币5150万元）的80个新项目。对于省里应该把什么事放在首要位置，农民是没有发言权的。
There has been no sign of action on the State Council’s announced goal for comprehensive monitoring and treatment of soil pollution, and in rural Hunan, farmers remain fearful but fatalistic.
国务院公布的土壤污染全面监测和治理目标目前还没有付诸行动的迹象，在湖南农村，农民们仍然忧心忡忡，但是他们认命了。
“You’re born on this earth, you grow up on this earth and you can’t do anything about it,” Ms. Ge said, sitting in an alley next to a pail of carrots. “Those who are most vulnerable have died. We’re still here wasting away.”
“你在这片土地上出生，你在这片土地上长大，这个事情你没有办法，”葛松青坐在一条小巷里，身边放着一桶胡萝卜。“体质最差的人已经死了。我们还要在这里耗下去。”