The operators of a glass-bottomed walkway clinging to a cliff 3,500 feet above sea level in central China want to reassure visitors that they are quite safe.
建造于中国中部海拔3500英尺的悬崖上的一条玻璃栈道的运营者，试图让游客相信，这条栈道非常安全。
Despite the cracks in the glass.
尽管栈道玻璃已经开裂。
The fractures appeared on part of the 1,300-foot-long see-through walkway just over two weeks after it fully opened, but they were no cause for alarm, said the administration of the Yuntai Mountain scenic park in Henan Province.
这条1300英尺长（约合400米）的玻璃栈道刚刚完全对外开放两周，就在部分地方开裂，但河南省云台山风景名胜区管理局表示，不必为此惊慌。
“This has no impact on safety,” the administration said in a statement on Tuesday, after word spread online that one of the glass panes had cracked.But comments online resounded with skepticism about a nationwide vogue for walking, wobbling or crawling along glass-bottomed bridges and walkways at vertiginous heights. Some cited China’s chronic problems with shoddy construction and ineffectual crowd control and argued that the boom in see-through scenic walks lacked transparency.
“这不对安全构成影响，”管理局在一份声明中表示。这条栈道其中一块玻璃破裂的消息在网上传开以后，该机构于周二发布了这份声明。但是，对于在高度令人眩晕的玻璃桥和玻璃栈道上行走、蹒跚或爬行这一流行中国的风潮，网上回荡着一片质疑之声。一些人指出了中国长期存在的低劣建筑质量和糟糕的人群控制等问题，并称这股景区透明设施游风潮缺乏透明度。
“This is no joke,” said one of the thousands of comments about the cracks that were published on Weibo, a popular microblog site. “Tourism is taking your life in your own hands. No more of these glass walkways. Just too scary.”
“这真不是开玩笑的，”发布于热门微博网站新浪微博上的一条博文讲到，该网站上有关这次玻璃开裂事件的博文数以千计。“冒着生命危险去旅游啊。以后还是别弄玻璃栈道了。真的太吓人了。”
Many news reports shared a description that appeared to set off alarms about the walkway in Henan.
不少有关此事的最新报道，似乎都包含了引发人们对河南这条玻璃栈道的安全性产生担忧的一个描述。
“We were near the end point when suddenly there was a giant ‘crack’ sound and shaking beneath my feet,” said the account that first appeared on Weibo, Southern Metropolitan Daily, a popular tabloid, reported.
“就在快到终点的位置，突然‘砰’的一声巨响，脚下一震，”据热门报纸《南方都市报》报道，最先在微博上描述此事的微博账号如此讲道。
“The piece of glass at my feet had shattered,” it said. “At that moment, everyone screamed, and I yelled, ‘It’s really broken, really broken.’ Then everyone ran, pushing the people in front of them.”But the Yuntai Mountain administration gave a milder account.
“我脚下的那一块玻璃碎成花了，”该微博账号写道。“那一瞬间，所有人都在尖叫，我大喊‘真的碎了，是真的碎了！’然后推着前面的人就跑。”但根据云台山风景名胜区管理局的描述，情况没那么严重。
On Monday afternoon, it said, safety inspectors were conducting a routine patrol when they came across some small cracks in a pane of glass. The inspectors determined that a sharp object had cracked one of the three layers of glass on the walkway. Some news reports said a dropped metal flask may have caused the cracks.
该机构表示，周一下午，安全员在正常巡查时，发现玻璃栈道的一块玻璃有少量裂纹。经调查，该机构确认玻璃裂纹系由尖锐物体带来的外力造成的，栈道玻璃为三层特制钢化玻璃，其中一层出现裂纹。一些新闻报道称，这些裂纹可能是掉在玻璃栈道上的不锈钢杯子造成的。
“To ensure that tourists can have 100 percent confidence in their safety, we have decided to temporarily halt receiving visitors on the glass walkway,” the administration said.
“景区为确保游客100％安全放心，决定暂停玻璃栈道接待游客，”云台山风景名胜区管理局表示。
That buttoned-down account did not seem to persuade some. Even People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s dour newspaper, spread word on Twitter and showed video of the dizzying walkway.
这种老套的言辞似乎没能说服多少人。即使是风格严肃的中共党报《人民日报》也在Twitter上传播了这一信息，还发布了令人目眩的玻璃栈道视频。
“A glass pane on a new transparent walkway shattered yesterday on 3,540ft high cliff on Yuntai Mountain, Central China,” the message read.
“新建于河南中部云台山海拔3540英尺高的悬崖上的玻璃栈道，有一块玻璃破裂了，”《人民日报》发布的推文写道。
And on Weibo, the user whose description spread news of the episode accused the park authorities of lying by playing down the cracks.
在微博上最先描述该事件的前述账号指责景区管理局撒谎，目的是淡化开裂的严重程度。
“The statement from Yuntai Mountain is wrong,” said the user, going by the name Li Donghai. “It was not just a few cracks in the glass. The whole pane had shattered. Saying that I’m making a mountain out of a mole hill is slander and I won’t take it.”
“云台山的声明有误，”，名为“李东海说赫宰你好我的爱”的该微博账号称。“不是只有一些裂纹。整块玻璃都碎了。说我是小题大做，我是不会认的。”
Efforts to contact Li Donghai were unsuccessful.
纽约时报未能联系到此人接受采访。
Other tourist spots in China have a lot at stake in the cracked glass. Over the past several years, areas with mountains, deep valleys and steep cliffs have built glass-bottomed bridges and walkways to attract tourists tired of the usual tame fare of shopping and eating.
此次玻璃碎裂事件对其他中国景区而言也是利益攸关。过去几年，有高山、深谷和陡峭悬崖的景区建造了不少玻璃桥和玻璃栈道，以吸引那些厌倦了一般的购物美食之旅的游客。
In addition to the one at Yuntai Mountain, other dizzying glass walkways include a see-through lookout in Chongqing in southwest China. Zhangjiajie, a scenic park in Hunan Province in the south, has a glass-bottomed walkway hundreds of feet high on a cliffside and is also building a 1,400-foot-long glass-bottomed bridge.
除了云台山景区的玻璃栈道，其他高空玻璃栈道包括位于中国西南部城市重庆的一个悬空玻璃眺台，和位于湖南省的张家界国家森林公园里一条修建于悬崖外侧数百米高处的玻璃栈道，此处还在修建一座1400英尺长的玻璃桥。
In the weeklong National Day holiday, which concluded on Wednesday, the glass-bottomed bridge in Shiniuzhai park in another part of Hunan was crammed, and officials took steps to control the flow of people on the bridge and nearby cliff walkway after numbers reached nearly 20,000 visits a day, Xinhua, the state news agency, reported.The Yuntai Mountain officials said their transparent walkway would promptly reopen after repairs.
据中国国家新闻机构新华社报道，在本周三结束的国庆黄金周期间，位于湖南石牛寨国家地质公园里的玻璃桥游人过多，在日接待游客接近2万人次的情况下，当局采取措施，对通过玻璃桥和附近悬崖栈道的人流进行了控制。云台山景区管理者表示，透明栈道修复后，会很快开放。
“Across the world, similar incidents happen occasionally,” the park administration said. “We thank the broad numbers of tourists for their concern and support!”
“全球类似情况时有发生，”该景区管理局表示。“感谢广大游客的关注和支持！ ”