Mr. Guo breeds pit bulls and other potential fighting dogs. He’s guarded about what he does. Pit bulls are illegal in much of Beijing, as are 40 other breeds deemed “vicious and large” by the police, including the Dalmatian, collie and Weimaraner, and some valued in other countries as guide dogs.
郭先生饲养着比特犬等有可能成为斗犬的品种。他对自己的所作所为十分警觉。在北京的大部分地区，比特犬属于禁养犬种。在警方眼中，还有其他40种“烈性犬、大型犬”也在禁养之列，包括斑点犬、牧羊犬和威玛烈犬，以及在其他国家视为导盲犬的某些品种。
‘‘I love dogs, and I love this one. Its character is really very sweet if it’s not trained to be aggressive, and its musculature is beautiful,’’ said Mr. Guo, who is in his 20s and lives on the outskirts of Beijing with other dog lovers, where regulations are looser. He asked that only his surname be used to avoid repercussions.
“我是爱狗的人，我喜欢这个品种。如果不被训练得具有攻击性，它的性情特别温顺，它的肌肉也很漂亮，”二十多岁的郭先生说。与其他许多爱狗人士一样，他居住在监管较为宽松的北京郊区。为了避免惹来麻烦，他只透露了姓。
Do his dogs take part in organized fights? Given growing reports, both anecdotal and in the local media, of dog fighting for sport and money, it seemed a reasonable question. Last year, The Beijing News reported that the pit bull was the fighting dog of choice in the capital. In other parts of China, the Tibetan mastiff was popular, the newspaper said. Dog fighting in nearby counties was well organized, and people often gambled between 1,000 and 20,000 renminbi, or $160 to $3,300, on a single encounter, it said.
他的狗会去参加有组织的斗狗比赛吗？这似乎是一个很合理的问题，因为在坊间传说和当地媒体上，有关斗狗竞技和赌博的消息越来越多。根据《新京报》去年的报道，在北京市，比特犬是首选的斗犬品种；而在中国其他地区，藏獒广受欢迎。根据文中的描述，北京周边郊县的斗狗赛事组织性强，每斗一轮，赌客们少则押1千元，多则投2万元。
No, said Mr. Guo. ‘‘I just get together with others who have dogs, on the weekend, in the mountains, and we enjoy our dogs. I know that there is dog fighting here. But we are very innocent.’’
郭先生的回答是否定的。“我就是周末和其他养狗的人在山里碰头，让我们的狗撒个欢儿。我知道这里有斗狗比赛，但我们是老实人。”
Even if Mr. Guo’s dogs were taking part in fights, that in itself would not be illegal unless gambling was involved. China has no general laws proscribing cruelty to animals, though it does have protections for endangered species as well as veterinary and health regulations for animal husbandry.
即便郭先生的狗去参加比赛，这种行为本身也并不违法，除非牵涉到赌博。中国没有禁止虐待动物的综合性法规，尽管国家的确对濒危物种进行保护，还针对畜牧业出台了兽医和卫生方面的管理规定。
But the reports of dog fighting, which is illegal in many countries — the animals often battle to the death, and losers may be killed by their owners — have provided animal lovers with yet another argument that China urgently needs laws to protect animal welfare.
斗狗在很多国家都是非法的，参赛犬往往会格斗至死，输掉比赛的还可能被主人杀掉。动物保护人士认为，中国亟需立法保护动物福利，而有关斗狗的报道为他们提供了又一个支撑自身观点的理由。
The lack of such laws is deeply frustrating for many Chinese, as revulsion grows at what they say is the routine abuse of animals. There are regular citizen-led rescues of cats and dogs headed to the restaurant table. They are also alarmed by incidents of torture.
随着人们对虐待动物的行为越来越反感，这类法规的缺位让许多中国人深感不安。他们说，虐待行为时有发生。有些普通公民会牵头组织行动，营救即将被送上餐桌的猫狗。此外，某些残忍的事件也让他们深感震惊。
‘‘There’s too much torture of animals,’’ said Mr. Guo.
“折磨动物的事情实在太多了，”郭先生说。
Last Sunday, a group of people, some holding signs calling for animal welfare laws, demonstrated in the Temple of Heaven park in Beijing after dozens of cats that roam wild there have been found stabbed to death, at the rate of about two a day starting in early October, according to news reports.
据媒体报道，有人发现，从10月初开始，出没于北京天坛公园的数十只流浪猫遭到虐杀，基本上每天两只。事发后，一群人于上周日在天坛公园抗议，有的还举着呼吁出台动物福利相关法规的标语。
The government does not publicly explain why it is not moving ahead with such a law, years after academics and animal lovers began lobbying for one. They drew up a suggested text and offered it to the National People’s Congress for consideration in 2009.
一些学者和动保人士多年以前就开始游说政府出台此类法规，但政府裹足不前，且未公开解释个中原因。这些人曾经起草过一份建议稿，并于2009年提交全国人大审议。
Zhang Dan, a co-founder of the Animal Protection Network, said China was ‘‘nowhere near’’ getting a law.
动保网的联合创始人张丹说，中国离出台这样一部法律“还差得很远”。
‘‘We think that at the highest level of state there is a lack of interest. They think that people’s problems are not yet solved, so animals’ problems should be set aside,’’ Ms. Zhang said.
“我们认为，政府的最高领导层对此不感兴趣。在他们看来，人的问题还有没解决，所以动物的问题得放一放，”张丹说。
‘‘They constantly compare the situation of people and animals but don’t understand that the situation of animals is related to that of people,’’ she said. ‘‘To protect animals is to protect people. A lot of people here still don’t get that.’’
“他们总是把人和动物的处境对立起来，却不明白，动物的处境和人的处境是息息相关的，”她说，“保护动物就是保护人类。中国的很多人还没弄清这件事。”
‘‘The other thing is that they simply don’t grasp the extent of the abuse, of the tragedy, and how damaging it is to China’s international image,’’ she said, pointing to negative reports on Chinese eating cats and dogs, and to how countries poorer than China have animal protection laws, ‘‘including in Africa.’’
“而且，他们完全不知道虐待行为有多严重，事情有多惨，不知道这会给中国的国际形象造成多大的伤害，”谈起中国人吃猫吃狗的负面报道，以及比中国更为贫困的一些国家，“包括非洲国家”如何制定了动物保护法，张丹这样说道。
Some basic measures suggested in the proposed law would include fines for abusing animals and banning certain ones from dinner tables. The first measure would, in theory, help prevent dog fights, where blood and fur fly.
当年的提案建议采取的一些基本措施包括：对虐待动物的行为处以罚款，以及禁止以某些动物为食。第一项措施在理论上有助于杜绝血肉横飞的斗犬行为。
Observing three matches on the outskirts of Beijing last year, The Beijing News wrote that there were two situations in which a winner was declared: if one dog retreated and refused to fight, or if it was bitten to death. The car license plates at the event, from nearby Hebei Province and Tianjin, showed that people had traveled to take part, the report said. ‘‘I hear there’s a lot of it in the countryside, like in Shandong Province,’’ said Mr. Guo.
去年在北京郊区看了三场比赛的《新京报》记者写道，有两条标准来判定输赢：一是一方狗示弱，回头不咬；二是一方狗被咬死。文中称，活动现场的一些车辆挂着北京附近的河北省和天津市的车牌，说明有些人是远道而来。“我听说农村地区有很多斗狗比赛，比如在山东，”郭先生说。