For visitors, China’s water problem becomes apparent upon entering the hotel room. The smell of a polluted river might emanate from the showerhead. Need to quench your thirst? The drip from the tap is rarely potable. Can you trust the bottled water? Many Chinese don’t. What about brushing your teeth?
对于外国客人来说，你一进酒店房间就能够明显感受到中国的水的问题。从花洒里喷出的水也许会有一股被污染了的河水的气味。口渴想喝水？水龙头里的水基本上不能喝。那你能否信任瓶装水呢？很多中国人都不相信。那用来刷牙会怎么样？
Measured by the government’s own standards, more than half of the country’s largest lakes and reservoirs were so contaminated in 2011 that they were unsuitable for human consumption. China’s more than 4,700 underground water-quality testing stations show that nearly three-fifths of all water supplies are “relatively bad” or worse. Roughly half of rural residents lack access to drinking water that meets international standards.
就算按照政府自己的标准来衡量，到2011年为止，全国超过一半的大型湖泊和水库都被严重污染，水源不适合人类饮用。根据中国超过4,700座地下水质量监测站的检测结果显示，将近五分之三的水源都“相对较差”甚至更糟糕。将近一半的农村居民都缺乏达到国际标准的饮用水源。
For all of the dazzling progress that the world has come to associate with a booming 21st century China, the quality of its water supply has failed to keep up with the country’s leap into modernity.
进入21世纪，中国的发展欣欣向荣，世界逐渐认识到中国所取得的各种让人眼花缭乱的成就，但是水源供应的质量问题则没有跟上中国迈入现代化的步伐。
Policy makers and the Chinese public rightfully blame lax environmental controls and shoddy enforcement. But the more fundamental problem is that the country simply doesn’t have enough water. Breakneck and large-scale industrialization has overwhelmed scarce supplies — and drinking water has become one of the most visible casualties.
中国公众和政策制定者们把问题归结于环境质量控制弛懈，执法力度不严，这当然是正确的。但是更加根本的问题是，中国水资源本身就匮乏。大规模、高速度的工业化令本已不足的水供应不堪重负——而饮用水就成为了最显而易见的牺牲品之一。
China contains only about 7 percent of the world’s fresh water while sustaining nearly 20 percent of its population. In stark contrast, Lake Michigan in the United States holds about 4 percent of the world’s freshwater (the Great Lakes combined contain about 20 percent).
中国仅占有全世界7%的淡水资源，却养育了将近20%的世界人口。形成鲜明对比的是，美国的密歇根湖(Lake Michigan)占有了全球淡水资源的4%(五大湖区占有了全球淡水资源的20%)。
Despite China’s limited resource base, the country’s vertiginous and dense urban jungles continue to grow. More water is needed with each skyscraper added to urban China’s skylines, each ton of coal burned to heat them, and each steamer of dumplings sold on their steps. And every time water is discharged from a new residential complex or power plant, it returns to the river basins a little dirtier.
虽然中国资源有限，但是鳞次栉比、人口稠密的城市丛林还是在不断发展。中国城市天际线上每增加一幢高楼大厦，每烧一吨煤来为其供暖，每蒸一屉饺子，都需要更多的水。每一次废水从新的住宅小区或者发电站排放到河里，整个流域就会变得更脏一些。
China’s two major rivers — the Yellow River and the Yangtze River — illustrate the problem. Both waterways traverse the country’s major industrial belts as they flow from west to east. By the time the water reaches China’s coastal population centers, it requires extensive treatment before it is potable.
你能从中国的两大主要河流——黄河和长江——看到问题的严重性。这两大水道均自西向东，横跨中国主要工业带。当河水流经中国沿海的人口聚集区时，就必须经过深度处理才能够饮用。
Unfortunately for China’s neighbors, water scarcity has ramifications beyond Chinese borders. Tensions over how to share water from the Mekong River, one of the world’s longest, have rattled relations with the country’s Southeast Asian neighbors.
但是对于中国的邻国来说，水资源短缺的影响不幸地越过了中国国境范围。就世界最长河流之一湄公河的水源分配问题所引发的紧张局势，已经影响了中国及其东南亚邻国的关系。
The Mekong flows out of China’s southwestern Yunnan Province and spans throughout most of Southeast Asia. Like most major waterways, the Mekong is a central artery that sustains development, commerce and trade — and local livelihoods.
湄公河从中国西南的云南省出境，流经大半个东南亚。跟绝大多数主要水道一样，湄公河是支持商业、贸易、发展以及当地人生计的主要动脉。
China has built a number of new hydroelectric dams along the river in recent years to support economic development in the relatively impoverished southwest. The result has been a slowing of the Mekong’s flow when it reaches China’s downstream neighbors, threatening the health of Southeast Asian fisheries and water security. Water levels in the Mekong Delta reached their lowest levels in 50 years in 2010, igniting discord between China and its neighbors.
近年来，为了支持相对贫困的西南地区的经济发展，中国沿湄公河新建了多座水电站，结果导致湄公河流向下游邻国时流速放缓，威胁到了东南亚渔业的健康发展和水安全。2010年，湄公河三角洲的水位达到了五十年来的最低点，引发了中国及其邻国的争执。
To tackle this growing challenge, Beijing is turning to policies that address both the increasing demand and the limited supply.
为了应对愈发严峻的挑战，北京方面开始制定政策，去调和不断增长的需求和有限的供应之间的矛盾。
The government has started a gargantuan supply-side project — the “South-to-North Diversion” — which will redistribute water from the wet South to the arid North through a massive complex network of aqueducts. It is an intriguing idea in the abstract, but leakage and contamination may make the water unusable by the time it reaches the cities of the North. And it does nothing to increase the overall scarcity of fresh water.
政府开始启动一项规模庞大的供水工程——“南水北调”工程——这项工程将通过大规模的复杂水路网络，把潮湿的南方水资源调往干旱的北方。理论上这是一个很吸引人的主意，但是考虑到渗漏和污染问题，到达北方城市的水很有可能无法使用。而且这项工程本身并不能够增加总体匮乏的水量。
Other solutions, mostly requiring large investments in technologies, are being tested as well. A mega desalinization plant has been built as a pilot project in the northern city of Tianjin. Beijing has also called for more substantial investment in wastewater recycling technology. Meanwhile, Chinese industry, under pressure from the government, is seeking solutions for more efficient water usage. Altering water prices, though politically sensitive, may help better manage demand in the future.
人们也在尝试其他办法，其中绝大多数都需要对科技进行大量的投资。作为实验项目，北方城市天津就建成了一个超大型海水淡化厂。北京也在要求对污水循环利用技术领域增加大量投资。与此同时，在政府的压力之下，中国的工业界也在寻找提高水利用率的方案。提高水价或许能更好地调控未来的需求，虽然这在政治上相对敏感。
Still, there is no silver bullet to quickly and cleanly solve the problems. Many of the technological solutions are costly and difficult to scale-up rapidly.
不过，现在还是没有一个能够快速而干脆地解决这些问题的办法。许多技术手段都相当昂贵，也很难在短时间内形成规模。
If the past 35 years of a resource-intensive economic boom have demonstrated anything, it is that the Chinese government is capable of producing growth, revving it up when necessary and reining it in when domestic priorities demand. But the country’s leadership must now face the legacy of a long boom that drew down a finite resource base to an extent that the world has yet to grasp. Major changes must come for how China manages these scarce resources — if not willfully, then by the indomitable force of necessity.
如果说过去35年里，资源密集型的经济起飞说明了任何问题的话，那么就是中国政府有能力推动经济增长，在需要时他们能提高经济增长速度，还可以根据国内的重点需求对增速进行控制。但是中国的领导层必须面对长时间增长所带来的资源大量消耗问题，而有限的资源究竟消耗到了什么程度，谁也不知道。中国政府必须对于管理有限资源的方式进行重大变革——如果不主动变革的话，或将因为不以意志转移的外界因素而被动为之。