HONG KONG — A China manufacturing index hit its highest level in six months on Monday, offering the first important measure of how the country’s economy performed in September and showing that a tentative reacceleration has continued as government support and firmer demand for Chinese exports have gained traction.
香港——周一发布的一项中国制造业指数达到六个月来的最高水平，为中国经济在9月份的表现提供了首个重要估量，显示出试探性的重新加速仍在继续，表明政府的支持以及对中国出口更稳定的需求给经济带来了驱动力。
The HSBC manufacturing purchasing managers index — a survey that takes the temperature of China’s important factory sector — rose to 51.2 in September, from 50.1, topping analysts’ expectations.
汇丰银行(HSBC)的制造业采购经理人指数，从此前的50.1上升到9月份的51.2，超出分析人士的预期，该指数衡量中国重要制造业的表现。
Readings above 50 indicate expansion, so the September figure provided more evidence that the Chinese manufacturing sector is growing again after several months of contraction, while the economy as a whole has stopped decelerating.
指数超过50意味着扩张，因此9月份的数据提供了更多证据表明，经过几个月的收缩之后，中国制造业再次开始增长，而且从经济整体来看，已经停止了增长减速的趋势。
The firmer reading “was supported by simultaneous improvements of external and domestic demand conditions,” Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC, said in a note accompanying the data release.
汇丰银行首席中国经济学家屈宏斌在与这一数据同时发布的一份简报中写道，更加坚实的指数“是由内部和外部需求条件同时改善带来的。”
Faced with slowing growth, the authorities in Beijing have in recent months announced a series of measures aimed at boosting economic activity.
面对增长减速，北京的官员最近几个月出台了一系列旨在促进经济活动的措施。
Although China has avoided a repeat of the sweeping, large-scale stimulus of late 2008 and 2009, the smaller-scale, more targeted support measures of the past year or so have helped to put a floor under the economy, analysts have said.
尽管中国避免了再次推出像在2008年底和2009年那样的大范围、大规模的刺激方案，但更小规模、更有针对性的支持性措施在过去一年左右的时间里给经济的下滑垫了底，分析人士这样说。
Measures announced this year have included tax cuts for small businesses and measures aimed at speeding up railroad construction in inland and poor areas. In a bid to raise the economy’s overall efficiency, the authorities have also issued instructions to more than 1,400 companies in 19 industries to cut excess production capacity this year.
今年推出的措施包括对小型企业减税以及旨在加速内陆和贫困地区铁路建设的措施等。为提高经济的整体效率，政府还对19个行业的1400多家公司发出通知，要求它们在今年减少过剩产能。
“We expect a more sustained recovery as the further filtering-through of fine-tuning measures should lift domestic demand. This will create more favorable conditions to push forward reforms, which should in turn boost mid- and long-term growth outlooks,” Mr. Qu wrote.
屈宏斌写道，“这些微调政策的进一步渗透，应该能导致国内需求的增长，因此我们预计经济会出现更持续的复苏。这将为推进改革创造更加有利的条件，从而应该能改善中长期增长的前景。”
The index HSBC released on Monday was based on a preliminary assessment of survey responses. A final reading will be published on Sept. 30. A separate index compiled by the authorities in Beijing, more focused on larger, state-owned enterprises of the kind that benefit from state-led investment, will be released Oct. 1.
汇丰银行在周一发布的指数是基于对调查结果的初步评价。最终的指数将在9月30日发布。另一个由中国政府汇集的指数将在10月1日发布，该指数侧重于那些从国家主导的投资中受益的大型国有企业。