DAEJEONG, South Korea — Not far from Shin Yong-kyun’s strawberry farm are the crumbling remains of an airfield that Japanese colonialists built in the 1930s, to launch air raids against China, and the coastal caves they gouged out to hide their warships.
韩国大静——在距离申永均（Shin Yong-kyun，音）的草莓农场不远的地方就是破败的飞机场和海岸洞穴，日本殖民者在20世纪30年代建造了这个用于对中国发动空袭的飞机场，挖掘了这些用来隐藏军舰的洞穴。
The Japanese imperial era is long over, but Mr. Shin and many residents of this subtropical resort island say they are now worried about what some call a new foreign “invasion” — waves of Chinese tourists and investors sweeping into Jeju, famous for its honeymooners, palm trees and golf courses overlooking a turquoise sea.
日本帝国占领的时代早已结束，但申永均和这个亚热带度假岛屿上的很多居民表示，一些人形容的新一轮外国“入侵”让他们感到不安——一波又一波的中国游客和投资者正涌入济州岛。济州岛以蜜月胜地、棕榈树，以及能够俯瞰蔚蓝大海的高尔夫球场而著称。
“Planeload after planeload of them arrive, some buying up land around here,” Mr. Shin said, as he and his wife packaged strawberries in their greenhouse. “I sometimes wonder whether this island this time is not turning into a Chinese colony.”
“一飞机又一飞机的中国人来到这里，其中一些人还在这里买地，”申永均和妻子在温室里包装草莓时说。“我有时想，这个岛这次能不能挺得住，不变成中国殖民地。”
The sudden influx of Chinese — and their money — has been driven in part by the Jeju government’s own policies. These included letting foreigners visit without visas, and offering permanent-resident status for condominium owners and allowing them access to the same medical and employment benefits South Koreans enjoy without having to give up their citizenship.
中国人——及中国资金——的突然涌入，部分是由济州道自身的政策引发的。比如允许外国人无需签证就可以来旅游，为公寓所有者提供永久居民身份，允许他们享受与韩国人一样的医疗及就业福利，而不需要放弃自己的国籍。
The rush of money has been an economic bonanza for many, like the duty-free shops jam-packed with Chinese tourists looking for luxury items that are more costly at home and those hoping new hotels and condo developments will boost Jeju’s reputation. But the growing Chinese presence has also raised fears of big-power exploitation that is never far from the surface in a country that has been invaded numerous times by its stronger neighbors.
对于很多人来说，中国资金的涌入意味着经济机遇，比如挤满中国游客的免税商店（他们想要购买中国售价较高的奢侈品），以及那些期望新的酒店和公寓开发项目会提高济州岛声誉的人。然而随着中国人越来越多，人们也开始担心会受到大国的倾轧。韩国曾多次遭到强大邻国的入侵，所以这种担忧一直不曾远去。
Of the 6.1 million Chinese tourists who visited South Korea last year, nearly half visited Jeju, a fivefold increase from 2011. The Chinese have also become Jeju’s biggest foreign investors. They recently broke ground for what was billed as Asia’s largest family theme-park and casino complex. And Chinese business people are building or have announced plans for several high-rise hotels and condominium developments, which local people fear will be snapped up mainly by Chinese.
去年赴韩国旅游的中国游客人数达到了610万，其中将近一半游客的目的地是济州岛，比2011年增加了五倍。中国人已经成为济州岛最大的外国投资者群体。他们打算建造号称是亚洲最大的家庭主题公园和赌场，项目最近已经破土动工。一些中国商人要么是正在建造高层酒店和公寓，要么是公布了相关计划。当地人担心这些大楼会被中国人抢购一空。
Although Chinese-owned land in Jeju is still less than 1 percent, it has grown to 2,050 acres last year from just five acres in 2009. More than 70 percent of $6.1 billion in foreign investments in Jeju announced between 2010 and last year came from China.
虽然中国人在济州岛拥有的土地所占的比例还不到1%，但其面积已经从2009年的区区5英亩（约合2公顷）增加至去年的2050英亩。济州道公布，在2010年至去年之间共获得61亿美元（约合382亿元人民币）的外国投资，其中逾70%来自中国。
Feelings about China — one of the countries that invaded Korea in past centuries — are especially complicated. While many South Koreans are unequivocal in their continuing anger at Japan for its colonial and wartime history from last century, there is more of a sense that China is too powerful to shun.
中国是在过去几个世纪里入侵过韩国的国家之一，人们对中国的看法尤为复杂。虽然很多韩国人明确表示，他们仍对日本上个世纪的殖民统治和战时的历史心怀愤怒，但越来越多的韩国人感到，中国太过强大，难以回避。
China is the largest trade partner for this export-driven country, and President Park Geun-hye of South Korea has cultivated closer ties with China, meeting President Xi Jinping several times. Some in Jeju who welcome Chinese investment have even worried that a naval base under construction here will be used by American warships and chase away Chinese investors.
中国是这个出口型国家最大的贸易伙伴，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)也与中国建立了更为密切的关系，她曾多次与中国国家主席习近平会面。一些欢迎中国投资的济州岛居民甚至曾担心，在建的一座海军基地将由美国军舰使用，这会赶走中国投资者。
But China’s aggressive moves to declare control over nearby seas has also worried many South Koreans, who fear China will eventually be such an important economic partner that it could dictate policy. Of particular concern is that it could drive a wedge between South Korea and the United States, which most South Koreans still consider their best national security partner.
但中国宣称对附近海域拥有控制权的过激举措也让很多韩国人感到不安，他们担心中国作为经济伙伴，最终会变得十分重要，以至于可以决定政策。尤其令人担心的是，这可能会破坏韩国与美国的关系，大多数韩国人仍然认为，美国是他们最好的国家安全伙伴。
“Jeju is South Korea’s front line of contact with the Chinese,” said Kim Nam-jin, an official with the Jeju provincial government in charge of cooperation with China. “What we do here is a test bed for how South Korea shapes its relationship with and policy on China.”
“济州是韩国与中国建立联系的前线，”济州特别自治道政府负责与中国的合作事宜的官员金南镇（Kim Nam-jin，音）说。“我们在这里所做的一切，是为了试验韩国如何发展与中国的关系，如何制定对华政策。”
Until tourism transformed Jeju, it was a sleepy island dedicated mainly to farming and fishing. So many men left the island for better jobs that the predominance of women was one of the three things the island was most known for. The other two were wind and volcanic rocks.
旅游业改变了济州岛，在此之前，济州岛是一个主要从事农业和渔业的寂静岛屿。很多男性离开济州岛寻找更好的工作，女性居多的现象是该岛屿的“三多”之一，另外两个是风和火山石。
As South Korea’s economy exploded, the island became a favorite destination not only of South Korean honeymooners, but also for school trips. (Most of the 304 people killed in a ferry accident last April were students headed to Jeju.)
随着韩国经济腾飞，该岛成为了一个热门旅游目的地。韩国夫妇度蜜月，学校组织出游，都喜欢去济州岛。（去年4月的渡轮事故导致304人丧生，其中大部分都是前往济州岛的学生。）
For a time in the last several years, Jeju was especially welcoming to the Chinese, whom officials thought could help vault the island from a regional destination to an international one.
在过去的几年时间里，济州一度对中国人尤为热情。官员们认为，中国游客有助于将该岛从区域旅游目的地，提升为国际旅游目的地。
Although South Koreans have long ensured that Chinatowns did not form in their cities, Jeju became the first province to give one of its busiest shopping districts a Chinese name. Baojian Street was named after a Chinese health care product company that brought 11,000 employees to Jeju on incentive tours in 2011.
虽然长期以来，韩国一直没有让自己的城市里出现唐人街，但济州道首开先河，将一处繁华的购物区用中文命名为“宝健路”。该名称来自一家中国保健品公司，2011年，该公司组织了1.1万名员工前来济州岛旅游，以此作为福利。
Lisa Xue, 60, a Chinese tourist on a recent visit, said she and others were attracted to the island by its proximity — just a two-hour flight from Beijing — while wealthy Chinese saw it as a good place to buy property.
现年60岁的中国游客丽莎·薛(Lisa Xue)最近接受采访时表示，自己和其他人被济州岛吸引，是因为它地理位置便捷，与北京之间只有两小时的空中航程，而且中国富人觉得这是一个购置房产好地方。
But in the last year or so, local news media and critics began accusing Chinese real estate investors of “encroaching upon” Korean land. They also complained that most of the Chinese tourists were brought to Jeju by Chinese tourist agencies and not only violated some social mores, but often stayed, ate and shopped in Chinese-controlled hotels, restaurants and shopping centers.
但大概从去年开始，当地新闻媒体和评论员开始指责中国房地产投资者“侵占”韩国土地。他们还抱怨说，大多数中国游客是被中国旅行社带到济州岛的，他们不仅违背了一些社会规范，通常还在中国控股的酒店、餐馆和购物中心里吃住消费。
In a survey of 1,000 islanders last year, 68 percent said the growing number of Chinese tourists did not help Jeju’s development.
去年对济州岛1000名居民进行的一项调查显示，68%的受访者认为，中国游客的增多对济州的发展没有助益。
“There are sometimes so many of them crossing a coastal road that you have to stop your car and wait for them to pass like a herd of cattle.” said Kim Hong-gu, a Jeju businessman, who also noted that some Chinese spat and smoked on the street, practices Koreans have increasingly given up as the country has become an economic powerhouse.
“有时候会有很多中国人横穿沿海公路，只能把车停下，等着他们像牛群一样过完马路，”济州商人金洪九（Kim Hong-gu，音）说。他还指出，一些中国人会在大街上吐痰吸烟，而随着韩国成为经济强国，有这种行为的韩国人已经越来越少。
Mr. Kim accused China of “wielding its big money” to turn Jeju, prized among Koreans for its distinct dialect and traditional customs, into “a Chinatown.”
济州岛拥有独特的方言和传统习俗，备受韩国人珍视。金洪九指责中国“利用大把钞票”，正在把济州岛变成“唐人街”。
As real estate prices have risen, fears have grown that South Koreans will find it more costly to live in Jeju. The mood soured so much that those selling land to Chinese were compared to “national traitors,” Koreans of the early 20th century who helped Japan colonize the nation. One restaurant even took out a newspaper ad to dispel rumors that it had been taken over by Chinese.
随着房地产价格上涨，韩国人也日益担心济州的生活成本会变得昂贵。由于不满情绪高涨，一些人已经将那些把土地卖给中国人的韩国人比作“韩奸”，这个词通常是指20世纪早期，协助日本殖民统治的韩国人。一家餐馆甚至在报纸上刊登辟谣声明，澄清它并未被中国人接管。
Jeju officials warned against “close-minded patriotism,” noting that some of the projects the Chinese had taken over had been abandoned or shunned by local investors.
济州道官员对“狭隘的爱国主义”提出了警告，并指出一些项目在中国人接手前，本地投资者要么已经放弃，要么不愿插手。
“The wisdom is not in trying to stop the Chinese from coming and antagonizing them but in enticing them to spend more here,” said Cho Eui-hwan, an executive at Raon Private Home, a condominium where half of the 934 units have been bought by Chinese since the permanent-residency offer was introduced in 2010. “Speaking of unruly tourists, wasn’t it only a few decades ago that ‘ugly Koreans’ were accused of the same behavior abroad?”
“不应该试图阻止中国人来济州，聪明的做法应该是吸引他们在这里花更多的钱，”乐园国际度假村(Raon Private Home)的高管赵义桓（Cho Eui-hwan，音）说。这个住宅项目共有934套公寓，自从2010年出台永久居留权政策以来，一半的公寓都被中国人买走了。“至于不自觉的游客，‘丑陋的韩国人’因为同样的行为在国外遭到指责，不也只是几十年前的事吗？”
In an apparent gesture to ease local resentment, the casino operator Genting Singapore promised this month to hire thousands of islanders at a $1.8 billion resort it is developing with a Chinese partner, the developer Landing International. The 618-acre complex includes a casino, premium hotels and a theme park.
赌场经营企业云顶新加坡(Genting Singapore)本月承诺，它与中国合作伙伴蓝鼎国际一起开发的一所度假村，将聘请数千名本地居民，这明显是为了缓解当地人的反感情绪做出的姿态。这座正在开发的度假村耗资18亿美元，占地618英亩，包含赌场、高端酒店和主题公园。
Mr. Shin, the farmer, said his village was divided in its feelings. Some people were happy that the Chinese-driven investment boom had raised land prices. Others were upset by the rising cost of renting farms and what some see as environmental degradation caused by so much building.
农民申永均说，村里有人欢喜有人忧。中国推动的投资热潮拉高了土地价格，令一些人高兴。而农场租用成本上涨，以及认为修建如此多的建筑会导致环境恶化，则让另一些人感到不快。