HONG KONG — Chinese companies have been selling record amounts of bonds on the domestic market in recent years. But in a sign that market forces have not been at work, analysts have been quick to point out, none of them have ever suffered a default.
香港——最近几年,中国一些公司一直在国内市场出售数额创纪录的债券。但分析人士立即指出，这些公司从未遇到违约的情况，这一迹象表明，市场力量没有发挥作用。
That may be about to change.
这种情况可能会发生改变。
A small company in Shanghai has said it is unlikely to meet a Friday deadline for an annual interest payment, putting it at risk of becoming the first company to default in China’s domestic bond market, which could have broader ramifications.
上海的一家小公司已经表示，公司可能无法支付周五到期的年利息。此事致使该公司面临成为中国国内债券市场首家违约公司的风险，可能会带来更广泛的后果。
The Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company, which makes solar cells and panels, issued a stock exchange announcement on Tuesday saying that “due to various uncontrollable factors” the company was unlikely to be able to meet the payment of 89.8 million renminbi, or $14.6 million, on a bond of one billion renminbi that it sold to domestic investors in 2012.
周二，制造太阳能电池和太阳能组件的上海超日太阳能科技股份有限公司在证券交易所发布公告称，“由于各种不可控因素”，公司可能无法支付8980万元人民币的利息。该公司于2012年向国内投资者出售了10亿元人民币的债券。
So far, Chaori said, it has been able to come up with only about 4 million renminbi, meaning that unless it receives a bailout or somehow generates fresh cash, the company will default.
超日表示，到目前为止，该公司只筹到了约400万元人民币，这意味着超日面临违约，除非获得救援或者通过某种方式得到额外现金。
As of Wednesday, the company did not appear any closer to resolving its debt problem. “Since the official announcement yesterday as regards our debt repayment situation, there has been no additional development thus far,” said Liu Tielong, a spokesman for Chaori.
截至周三，该公司似乎在解决债务问题方面似乎没有进展。超日公司发言人刘铁龙表示，“公司昨天发布了有关债务支付情况的公告，到目前为止，事情没有新的进展。”
Until now, investors’ concerns about potential problems with debt accumulation in China have tended to focus on ever-expanding local government borrowings or the rapid and often unwieldy growth of the shadow banking sector. But the prospect of a default in the domestic corporate bond market introduces another dimension to assessing the overall picture of China’s indebtedness.
直到现在，关于中国潜在的债务累积问题，投资者的主要担忧对象往往是地方政府不断扩展的借贷规模，或者影子银行领域迅速且通常难以控制的增长。然而，国内公司债券市场目前也出现了违约的苗头，为评估中国债务问题的总体情况提供了又一个衡量指标。
“In China’s case, the focus is on the knock-on effects of one default and whether those would prove to be detrimental to the overall bond market,” said Ted Osborn, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Hong Kong who specializes in debt restructuring. “If one of the domestic bond issuers were to default, would that cause the market to teeter or to crash?”
“就中国而言，关注的焦点是一个违约案例带来的连锁反应，以及这些反应是否会最终伤害整体债券市场，”擅长债务重组的香港普华永道(PricewaterhouseCoopers)合伙人泰德·奥斯本(Ted Osborn)说 。“如果国内债券发行者出现违约的情况，市场的反应是震荡还是崩溃？”
Corporate bonds fell on Wednesday in China. The ChinaBond New Composite Total Return Index, a broad indicator of the market, was down 0.16 percent on Wednesday.
周三，中国的公司债券出现下跌。衡量债券市场整体状况的指标中债新综合回报指数当天下跌了0.16%。
Over the last decade, China’s corporate bond market has grown from almost nothing to become the third largest in the world, trailing only those of the United States and Japan, according to figures from the Bank for International Settlements. Total corporate bonds outstanding have risen to 8.5 trillion renminbi at the end of last year, or about $1.4 trillion, from about 500 billion renminbi at the end of 2005, according to official figures that were compiled by the Asian Development Bank.
国际清算银行(Bank for International Settlements)的数据显示，过去十年中，中国的公司债券市场从无到有，成为世界第三大债券市场，仅次于美国及日本的债券市场。根据亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)汇编的官方数据，未偿付的公司债券总额从2005年年底的约5000亿元人民币增长至去年年底的8.5万亿元人民币。
Despite its tremendous size, China’s domestic bond market remains underdeveloped. It is still largely closed to foreign investors, and critics say it does a poor job of pricing in risk.
尽管规模极其庞大，中国国内债券市场的发展依然不够充分。在很大程度上，它依然将外国投资者拒之门外，批评者还表示，它的风险定价机制表现欠佳。
The lack of defaults in China’s domestic debt markets has been unusual, even by the country’s own standards. Chinese companies that have sold bonds denominated in dollars to international investors in offshore debt markets have defaulted in the past. A default last year by Suntech Power was a notable example in the solar industry.
国内债券市场没有违约的状况一直异于常理，即使按照中国自己的标准也是如此。过去，把以美元计价的证券卖给离岸债券市场的国际投资人的中国公司，曾经出现过债务违约。尚德电力控股有限公司去年违约的事情便是太阳能行业的一个显例。