Many people around the world believe that China’s rise to the role of dominant global player is inevitable. A Pew Research Center survey released earlier this year found that in 23 of 39 countries surveyed, a majority of respondents said China is already, or will soon become, the “world’s leading superpower.”
世界上有很多人认为，中国崛起成为全球头号强国的趋势是不可逆转的。皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)在今年早些时候发布的一项民调显示，在展开调查的39个国家中，有23个国家的多数受访者认为，中国已经或很快将成为“世界头号超级大国”。
Even in America, just 47 percent told Pew they believe the United States will remain in that role, and the survey was conducted before Washington’s recent shutdown hardened opinions about America’s political dysfunction.
甚至在美国也只有47%的受访者告诉皮尤中心，那个角色依然属于美国，而且调查是在前段时间美国政府停摆之前进行的，要知道那次停摆进一步加重了人们对美国政治陷入瘫痪的担忧。
But although China’s economic influence is growing — it is now the lead trade partner for 124 countries, compared to just 76 for the United States — its power to influence other nations is slight. It has achieved little of what policymakers call “capture,” a condition in which economic or security dependence of one country on another allows the more powerful to drive the other’s policy making.
然而，尽管中国的经济影响力在增强——它现在是124个国家的头号贸易伙伴，相比之下美国只有76个——但它对其他国家的影响力仍旧微不足道。在政策制定者常说的“俘获”方面，它没有取得多少进展，所谓俘获就是说，当一国对另一国存在经济或安全依赖时，后者就可以对前者的政策制定施加更多的影响。
Only in countries like North Korea, Cambodia and Laos does China have that kind of heft; in North Korea, for example, China provides 90 percent of the country’s energy and 80 percent of its consumer goods. But these are not the sorts of allies that help an emerging power extend its influence.
中国只对朝鲜、柬埔寨和老挝这样的国家建立起了类似的影响力；以朝鲜为例，这个国家90%的能源和80%的消费品都是由中国供应的。但是对于一个新崛起的大国，这些盟友对它扩大影响力起不到什么帮助。
Based on the size of their commercial relationships with China as a share of their overall economies, the governments next closest to “China capture” are Pakistan and Myanmar. But Beijing’s reluctance to undermine improving relations with India or to become more deeply implicated in Pakistan’s chaotic domestic politics will prevent a closer embrace. Myanmar is moving away from China on its own. Its recent political and economic opening signals an effort to better diversify its international partners to avoid too deep a dependence on Beijing.
根据与中国的商业关系在一国经济整体中所占的比重来判断，离“被中国俘获”最近的政府是巴基斯坦和缅甸。但中国不希望损害到正在改善的中印关系，也不想更多地被卷进混乱的巴基斯坦国内政治中去，这样一来它们的关系就无法进一步拉近。缅甸正在离中国而去。近来的政治和经济开放表明，这个国家希望自己的国际伙伴能更加多样化，避免过分依赖北京。
There are other countries where China wields extraordinary economic influence (Sudan, Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo) or political clout (Iran, Syria and Venezuela). The former are too corrupt for many Western governments to do business with, and lousy relations with the United States force the latter to look for powerful friends.
中国在其他一些国家也有着非同寻常的经济影响（苏丹、安哥拉和刚果民主共和国）或政治势力（伊朗、叙利亚和委内瑞拉）。前者腐败问题太过严重，导致很多西方国家政府都无法与之合作，而后者则是因为和美国关系糟糕，迫使它们去寻找强大的朋友。
Russia needs a deep-pocketed customer for its oil and gas, but commercial and political competition with China in the former Soviet states that lie between them, and traditional Russian paranoia over Chinese emigration into sparsely populated Siberia, will prevent a full embrace.
俄罗斯需要为它的石油和天然气找到财力雄厚的主顾，但是两国在彼此之间的前苏联加盟共和国内存在商业和政治竞争，再加上俄罗斯对中国人向人口稀少的西伯利亚移民存在着由来已久的恐慌，阻碍了两国关系的全面发展。
In fact, the economic vulnerability and political brittleness in these countries might one day compound weaknesses inside China. As party officials undertake the reforms needed to create a dynamic economy driven by Chinese consumer purchasing power, reliance on commercial and political ties with basket-case countries can be a dangerous thing. That’s because such countries pull partners into their crises, where security and economic risks outweigh any possible benefit from the relationship. China wants a stable Korean peninsula, but Pyongyang’s unpredictable bluster often creates the opposite.
事实上，这些国家在经济上的弱不禁风和政治上的外强中干，有朝一日也许会加重中国自身的缺陷。当中共官员开始发起改革，以图创造一个由中国消费者购买力驱动的、充满活力的经济时，去依赖和某些毫无希望的国家之间的商业和政治联系是危险的。中国希望有一个稳定的朝鲜半岛，但时不时有惊人之举的平壤往往会造成一个相反的局面。
Over time, China’s trade and investment relations with key trading partners that hold strategic value like Germany, Brazil, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia might allow Beijing greater influence in their policy making decisions. That kind of clout would lead to direct political and economic benefits: China would win access to commodities, profit-making opportunities for its companies and an increase in its international political leverage vis-à-vis the United States and Europe. Germany in particular could give China a stable foothold into European markets and a means of better aligning European economic policy with Chinese preferences; countries like Brazil, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia provide China with much much-needed commodities. China is already second only to the United States as Germany’s leading non-European export market. It replaced the United States as Brazil’s largest trade partner in 2009. In the Middle East, China is fast becoming the No. 1 source of energy demand for nearly every producer in the region and investing heavily in regional infrastructure to support supply routes.
随着时间的推移，中国会和一些有战略价值的关键贸易伙伴建立起贸易和投资关系，比如德国、巴西、沙特阿拉伯和印度尼西亚，从而让北京能对它们的政策制定施加更多影响。这种势力是会带来直接的政治和经济效益的：中国能因此为它的企业争得获取大宗商品和赚取利润的机会，还能掌握更多与美国和欧洲抗衡的国际政治影响力。德国尤其能够成为中国在欧洲市场的一个稳定立足点，并能借助它来实现欧洲经济政策向中国利益的倾斜；巴西、沙特、印尼这样的国家可以向中国供应它迫切需要的大宗商品。中国已经是仅次于美国的德国第二大非欧洲出口市场。2009年它取代美国成为巴西的头号贸易伙伴。在中东，中国正在迅速成为该地区所有能源供应国的头号主顾，为了维持供应渠道而大规模投资当地的基础设施建设。
Yet, all these countries have reasons to limit their dependence on China, the United States or any other single power. Even in China’s backyard, emerging powers like Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam will continue to forge new economic ties with Beijing, but they still hope an expanded U.S. presence in Asia will help them hedge against too great a reliance on China’s good will.
然而，所有这些国家都有理由控制自身对某一个大国的依赖，无论这个国家是中国、美国还是别的什么国家。即便在中国的后院，印尼、泰国和越南等新崛起的势力一方面会继续和中国建立新的经济联系，另一方面也会希望看到美国扩大在亚洲的势力，从而避免它们对中国的善意形成过度依赖。
In today’s media-driven world, soft power is another crucial element of superpower influence. Yet, beyond the inaccessibility of China’s language for most foreigners and their indifference to its social trends, China’s political and economic systems have little appeal in other countries. Its state capitalist economic model attracts political leaders looking to build wealth and micromanage markets, but it offers little for ordinary citizens.
在今天这个媒体驱动的世界里，软实力在超级大国影响力中也是至关重要的一环。然而，中文是绝大多数外国人难以理解的语言，中国的社会潮流也无法引起他们的关注，不仅如此，中国的政治和经济制度对其他国家也不存在什么吸引力。在那些希望积聚财富、对市场进行微观管理的政治领导人眼里，中国的国家资本主义经济模式具有一定诱惑性，但普通民众从中看不到什么好处。
War-weary Americans and their distracted political leaders are less interested in responsibilities overseas, creating a vacuum of international leadership. But for better and for worse, neither China nor anyone else appears ready and able to fill America’s superpower shoes.
厌战的美国人和被本国事务缠身的美国政治领导人对其海外职责兴趣缺缺，从而创造了一个国际领袖的真空。但是好是坏且不提，无论是中国，还是其他任何一个国家，看起来都没准备好填补美国留下的超级大国空缺。