SHANGHAI — Health authorities in China are investigating one of the nation’s biggest vaccine makers after eight infants died in the past two months following injections that were meant to immunize them against hepatitis B.
上海——过去两个月，中国有八名婴儿在注射乙肝疫苗后死亡，有鉴于此，中国卫生部门的官员正在对中国最大的一个疫苗制造商进行调查。
The government said this week that it had suspended the use of millions of doses of a hepatitis B vaccine produced by the manufacturer, Shenzhen Kangtai Biological Products. Government inspectors have been sent to examine the company’s facilities.
本周，政府表示已下令停止使用深圳康泰生物制品股份有限公司生产的数百万剂乙肝疫苗。政府已派出调查人员，对这家公司的设施进行检查。
Six of the deaths have been linked to vaccines produced by Shenzhen Kangtai; the two other infant deaths occurred recently after the use of a hepatitis B vaccine produced by another drug maker, Beijing Tiantan Biological Products. The government did not say whether any action had been taken against Beijing Tiantan or its vaccines. Investigators have not determined the cause of the deaths or linked them directly to the injections, but the cases come at a time of growing public concern in China about food and drug safety problems.
前述死亡事件当中有六个与深圳康泰生产的疫苗有关；最近死亡的两名婴儿死前使用的则是北京天坛生物制品股份有限公司制造的乙肝疫苗。政府并未表示是否已针对北京天坛或其疫苗采取行动。调查人员尚未确定死亡原因，也未确定婴儿的死亡与注射乙肝疫苗有直接联系。但是，这些事件出现之时，中国公众正越来越担心食品和药物安全问题。
In recent years, China has been troubled by a series of scandals, including tainted rice and milk and the mysterious appearance of thousands of dead pigs floating in the Huangpu River in Shanghai. China has vowed repeatedly to crack down on food and drug safety violations and has moved to strengthen the powers of health officials.
近年来，中国遭遇了一系列丑闻，其中包括毒大米、毒牛奶，以及神秘出现在上海黄浦江上的数千头漂浮死猪。中国曾多次承诺要打击食品和药物安全违规现象，并已加大了卫生官员的权力。
In the vaccine cases, the government is focusing on the role of Shenzhen Kangtai, a privately run drug maker formed in 1992 with government support and the cooperation of the American pharmaceutical company Merck.
在疫苗事件中，政府的注意力主要集中在深圳康泰的角色上。1992年，私营制药公司深圳康泰在政府支持之下成立，并与美国制药公司默克(Merck)进行了合作。
Merck helped the company build its drug-manufacturing facility in the city of Shenzhen in the 1990s, and it gave the company the biological technology to produce a hepatitis B vaccine royalty free as part of an unusual joint venture aimed at improving health standards in China. At the time, up to two million Chinese children were being infected annually with hepatitis B.
上世纪90年代，默克帮助该公司在深圳建起了药品生产设施，并以免收使用费的方式为深圳康泰提供了生产一种乙肝疫苗的生物技术。这是一种罕见的合作形式，旨在提升中国的卫生标准。那时，中国每年有多达200万名儿童感染乙肝。
Since then, China has made great strides in early vaccinations under a national program subsidized by the government. And Shenzhen Kangtai has become the country’s biggest producer of hepatitis B vaccines, with a 60 percent market share, according to China’s state-run news media. The company has also announced plans to build a $140 million research and development and drug manufacturing center in Shenzhen.
从那时起，通过一个由政府补贴的全国性项目，中国在早期疫苗接种领域取得了重大进展。深圳康泰也成了中国最大的乙肝疫苗生产商。据中国官方新闻媒体称，该公司的市场占有率为60%。康泰公司还宣布，计划在深圳修建一个投资1.4亿美元（约合8.5亿元人民币）的研发和药品生产中心。
A representative for Shenzhen Kangtai could not be reached Wednesday, although the company denied last week that its vaccines were at fault in the recent infant deaths.
周三，记者无法联系到深圳康泰方面的代表。不过，该公司上周否认是自己生产的疫苗导致了最近的婴儿死亡事件。
Although the authorities have banned the use of Shenzhen Kangtai’s hepatitis B vaccines at medical facilities, health experts say there are enough vaccines produced by five other Chinese drug makers to meet the demands of the national immunization program. In China, most hepatitis B vaccines are provided free to newborns.
当局已禁止医疗机构使用深圳康泰生产的乙肝疫苗，不过卫生领域的专家称，其他五家中国药品制造商生产的的疫苗足以满足全国免疫计划的需求。在中国，大部分乙肝疫苗都是免费提供给新生儿的。
Hepatitis B, which attacks the liver and can lead to death, is the most virulent form of hepatitis, according to the World Health Organization. Chronic forms of hepatitis affect about 500 million people a year worldwide.
据世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)称，乙肝会侵袭人的肝脏，还可能导致死亡，是最致命的一种肝炎。全世界每年约有5亿人感染各种慢性肝炎。