A decade ago, when sporting interests in Beijing gravitated toward the coming 2008 Summer Olympics, a small group of boys began China’s hockey revolution by happenstance.
十年前，即将到来的2008年夏季奥运会正在北京掀起一股运动热潮之时，一群男孩纯属偶然之下掀起了中国的冰球革命。
Misha Song started playing hockey because a doctor thought the cold air would cure a nagging cough. Tora Liu was a chubby child looking for ways to exercise indoors, away from the summer heat.
宋安东(Misha Song)开始打冰球，是因为医生认为冷空气能医治他烦人的咳嗽。柳子聪(Tora Liu)曾是一个小胖子，寻找各种在室内运动的方法以远离夏日的酷热。
They played on small rinks, like the one inside the China World Mall or a crude sheet built in a decommissioned war bunker. The boys used discounted hockey gear that their parents had collected during business trips abroad. With no one to teach them how to suit up, the boys at first wore their hockey socks inside kneepads to keep their legs warm.
那时他们在小冰场里打球，比如北京国贸商城里的那座，或是建在已经废弃的防空洞里的简陋冰场。孩子们用的是父母在国外出差时搜集的打折冰球装备。由于没人教他们穿戴装备，这群男孩一开始就把冰球袜穿在护膝里面，为双腿保暖。
Today, those boys have graduated from their curious beginnings to New England preparatory schools and top junior programs in North America, getting ready for the chance to display the evolution of Chinese hockey at the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing.
如今这些孩子已经从最初的好奇更进一步，进入新英格兰的预科学校和北美顶尖的青年队，为在2022年北京冬季奥运会上展示中国冰球的发展做好准备。
“It’s kind of absurd thinking — eight years ago, we would have never imagined we’d still be playing hockey, let alone playing in the U.S.,” said Song, who attends Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., with Liu. “It definitely makes us closer. It’s a special bond that we share.”
宋安东说：“这是个挺荒诞的想法——八年前，我们从没想到我们还会继续打冰球，更别说是在美国打了。”他与柳子聪一起在马萨诸塞州安多佛的菲利普斯学院(Phillips Academy)上学。“打冰球确实让我们更接近了。这是我们共有的一种特殊纽带。”
Song, who turns 19 on Sunday, is a major force in driving hockey interest in China. In June, he became the first Chinese-born player drafted by an N.H.L. team when the Islanders selected him in the sixth round.
本周日刚到19岁的宋安东是推动中国冰球兴趣的主力。去年6月，他在国家冰球联盟(NHL)的第六轮选秀上被纽约岛人队选中，成为该联盟首位生于中国的球员。
“When Misha Song got drafted, it just blew up,” said Wei Zhong, 17, a senior at Hinsdale Central High School in Illinois, who plays for the Chicago Mission, a top youth club. “He inspired all these kids to start playing, and some of my friends who were with hockey before to dust off their skates and start playing again.”
“宋安东获选时引起很大轰动，”17岁的钟暐(Wei Zhong)说。他是伊利诺伊州欣斯代尔中区高中(Hinsdale Central High School)的高年级生，效力于顶级青年俱乐部——芝加哥使团(Chicago Mission)。“是他激励着这些孩子开始打冰球，也激励了我的一些之前玩过冰球的朋友，他们翻出冰鞋重新开始打冰球。”
Song first picked up a stick at age 6, when his father returned with hockey equipment after a business trip to Russia. Four years later, his family moved to Toronto to advance his playing career, and Song relocated to the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey at 15. He began a postgraduate year at Phillips in September.
宋安东在6岁首次拿起冰球杆，那时他父亲到俄罗斯出差带回来了冰球器材。四年后，为了促进他的球员生涯，他们举家搬到多伦多。宋安东15岁时搬到新泽西州的劳伦斯维尔中学(Lawrenceville School)。去年9月，他开始在菲利普斯学院读预科。
Amid the celebrated brick facades and snow-covered lawns of Phillips, one of the oldest high schools in the United States, Song has reunited with Liu almost a decade after they first skated together with the Beijing Cubs youth team.
有着著名的砖墙和白雪覆盖的草坪的菲利普斯学院，是美国历史最悠久的中学之一。宋安东与柳子聪在这里重聚，离他们第一次在北京虎仔队一起滑冰已过去近十年。
Their friends also pursuing hockey dreams in North America include Zhong; Rudi Ying, 17, who plays for the Toronto Patriots of the Ontario Junior Hockey League; Simon Chen, 18, a senior at South Kent School in Connecticut; and Ou Li, 18, a senior at Noble and Greenough School in Dedham, Mass.
他们的朋友也在北美追求着冰球梦想，包括钟暐、17岁的英如镝、18岁的陈梓蒙(Simon Chen)与18岁的李欧。英如镝效力安大略青少年冰球联盟(Ontario Junior Hockey League)多伦多爱国者队(Toronto Patriots)、陈梓蒙是康涅狄格州南肯特中学(South Kent School)的高年级生、李欧是马萨诸塞州戴德姆的格里诺贵族学校(Noble and Greenough School)的高年级生。
During the off-season, members of the group have trained at camps throughout the continent, played overseas for China’s under-18 national team, and taken trips back to Beijing. When separated, they frequently converse through group messages on WeChat, a popular Chinese communication app, as they relay their struggles in the United States and share their hopes for expanding interest in hockey back home.
在赛季间隙，队员在北美各地的训练营受训，代表中国18岁以下国家队到海外比赛，还会回到北京。分开时，他们经常通过微信的群组交谈，介绍他们在美国的奋斗，他们都希望祖国对冰球有更多的兴趣。
“I think it definitely helped me tremendously, knowing other kids who literally had the same situation as me, going through the same struggles and who are excelling at their own level,” Li said. “It’s comforting to me. If I don’t have them by my side, this situation could get incredibly difficult; I could feel very lonesome. I’d have no one to relate to.”
“我觉得它确实对我有很大帮助，因为我知道其他人跟我有差不多的情况，在同样的困境中挣扎，但也在各自的水平上表现出色，”李欧说。“这带给了我安慰。如果我的身边没有他们，情况就会变得极其困难，我会感到非常孤独。没人知道我在说什么。”
Often, the boys joke, exchange photos from their youth or organize trips to New York. But they have also shared the plight of being anomalous figures in the hockey culture.
通常，男生之间会开玩笑，互相交换年少时的照片来看，或是组织去纽约的旅行。但是同样身为冰球文化中的异类，他们也经历了共同的困境。
Ying was one of the first Chinese youth players to compete in North America. His father, Da Ying, a famous Chinese actor and director, sent faxes to coaches in the Northeast, searching for opportunities for his son. Chris Masters, who coached the Boston Junior Bruins, invited Rudi Ying to play in a tournament in Canada.
英如镝是第一批在北美参加比赛的中国青年冰球员。他的父亲英达是中国著名演员和导演，他向东北部的教练发传真，为儿子寻找机会。波士顿棕熊少年队(Boston Junior Bruins)的教练克里斯·马斯特斯(Chris Masters)邀请英如镝到加拿大参加锦标赛。
Photographs taken at the time show Ying proudly clutching a gold trophy. He moved to the Chicago area when he was 10.
在当时所拍的照片中，英如镝自豪地拿着金奖杯。他在10岁时搬到了芝加哥地区。
“I was very shy, an inward, awkward kid,” Ying said. “Hockey forces you to talk to kids, learn how to be socially more open, and I think that’s important.” 
“那时候我很害羞，是个内向、笨拙的孩子，”英如镝说。“冰球会迫使你跟其他孩子说话，学习如何在社交方面更放得开，我认为这点很重要。”
Although the players were enamored of quality hockey environments, they had problems making the transition. For some, language barriers were troublesome. In China, Liu had not studied English since kindergarten, and he said it took him about four years to become fluent.
高水平的冰球环境让球员们很着迷，但他们在过渡时亦需要面对一些问题。对部分人来说，语言障碍是一个难题。在中国时，柳子聪自从幼儿园以后就没再学习英语，他说他大概花了四年时间把英语说流利了。
Playing hockey helped expedite their English and made them feel less shy in social situations. But the games occasionally became hostile. Liu said he had been called racial slurs. In the fall, after Song was drafted, opponents mistakenly directed taunts intended for him at Liu.
打冰球有助加快他们学习英语的进程，也令他们在社交场合没那么害羞。可是比赛有时候是充满敌意的。柳子聪说他曾被种族歧视字眼辱骂。去年秋天，在宋安东被选中后，柳子聪因被误认作宋安东而遭到对手嘲弄。
“There are prices you have to pay since we are the first wave; we are the pioneers,” Chen said. “Personally, I like the adversity.”
“有些代价我们必须要付，因为我们是第一批；我们是拓荒者，”陈梓蒙说。“就个人来说，我很喜欢逆境。”
The players often lived with only one parent while the other split time between North America and China for business. Liu said he did not regularly speak Chinese anymore and had lost contact with most of his friends from his youth in Beijing. Zhong lamented living so far from his grandparents.
球员们往往都只和父母中的一方住在一起，而另一方则要为了事业，在北美和中国两边奔波。柳子聪说，他不再时常说中文，也不再和多数在北京的发小联络。钟暐感叹说，自己现在生活的地方离爷爷奶奶太远。
When the players go back to China, mostly during school vacations, they have noticed a changing hockey landscape. No longer do children have to skate on makeshift rinks with adults in beer leagues — many new facilities have been built in major cities in recent years.
球员们一般是在学校放假期间回国，回国后他们注意到冰球环境发生了变化。孩子们不再需要跟“啤酒俱乐部”的大人一起，在简陋的冰场里滑冰——近几年来许多新设施已经在各大城市落成。
In an International Ice Hockey Federation survey from 2015, China had 1,225 registered players. The country also had 48 indoor rinks, more than Austria, the Czech Republic and Japan.
根据国际冰球联合会(International Ice Hockey Federation)2015年的调查，中国有1225名注册球员。此外，中国还有48个室内冰场，比奥地利、捷克和日本还多。
The Islanders’ owner, Charles B. Wang, who was born in Shanghai, has helped support 28 rinks in China. Five N.H.L. games per week are broadcast on local Chinese television, a league representative said, and in December, the Russia-based Kontinental Hockey League announced an expansion into Beijing next season.
在上海出生的纽约岛人老板王嘉廉(Charles B. Wang)在中国出资修建了28座冰场。NHL的一位代表说，每周会有五场联盟比赛在中国当地电视台播出，而在12月，俄罗斯的大陆冰球联赛(Kontinental Hockey League)宣布将在下个赛季进军北京。
While there are signs of steady growth in China, a large financial disparity remains. Much of the hockey activity is centered in major cities. The players now in North America come from families with successful business backgrounds.
虽然冰球在中国有稳步发展的迹象，但仍然存在巨大的财力差距。很多冰球活动集中在主要城市。目前在北美发展的球员都来自成功商人家庭。
“Gear is even more expensive in China, and I think that’s one part that’s holding people who are less wealthy back from playing,” Liu said.
柳子聪表示，“这些装备在中国要更贵，我觉得这是阻碍不那么富裕的人打冰球的因素之一。”
Hockey will be a showcase event at the 2022 Olympics, so stronger support is expected from the Chinese government, which could help spread the game.
2022年奥运会将会是一个展示冰球实力的机会，因此这项运动将会获得中国政府的大力支持，这也许有助于它的普及。
The success of Song and other top Chinese youth players could have an even larger influence. Paul Tortorella, the coach at Phillips, said he had received inquiries this season from Chinese players wanting to follow in Song and Liu’s footsteps.
宋安东和其他中国顶级年轻球员的成功可能会产生更大的影响。菲利普斯学院的教练保罗·托尔托雷拉(Paul Tortorella)表示，本赛季有些想追随宋安东和柳子聪脚步的中国球员来找他咨询。
During the 1947-48 season, Larry Kwong became the first player of Chinese descent to play in an N.H.L. game. He said in a recent telephone interview that he was proud of this generation of Chinese hockey players.
在1947–1948赛季，吴启光(Larry Kwong)成为第一个参加NHL比赛的亚裔球员。他在最近接受电话采访时表示，他为中国这一代的冰球球员感到骄傲。
Song recently met Yao Ming, who was almost single-handedly responsible for China’s transformation into a basketball hotbed. Yao told him not to lose focus and urged him to ignore what outsiders said about him.
宋安东最近见到了一手推动中国转变成为一片篮球温床的姚明。姚明告诉他要保持专注，鼓励他不要受到外界评论的影响。
If Song or another player reaches the N.H.L., an impact like Yao’s is possible. Song said he embraced his role as an ambassador.
如果宋安东或其他球员能够参加NHL比赛，他们就有可能具有像姚明一样的影响力。宋安东表示，他接受自己作为使者的角色。
Ying said it was “very inspirational” when Song was drafted.
英如镝表示，宋安东获选是一件非常“鼓舞人心”的事情。
“Before that,” Ying said, “the N.H.L. was really like this light in the distance. After seeing him get drafted, it became a reality and gave me something to work for.”
“在那之前，”英如镝说。“NHL真的就像远处的光一样。看到他获选后，这变成了一个现实，给了我奋斗的目标。”
Along with motivating one another, the players have begun to mentor the next wave of potential Chinese stars. At South Kent, Chen is helping two younger Chinese players in the program, passing along the experiences that he and his friends have encountered over the years.
除了互相激励，球员们已经开始指导下一波可能成为中国明星的球员。在南肯特中学，陈梓蒙正在帮助队中两名年纪更小的中国球员，向他们传递他和朋友们这些年来的经验。
“Hockey involves a lot of politics; sometimes you don’t get ice time you earn,” Chen said, adding that some coaches gave more chances to American players than to Asians.
“冰球涉及到很多明争暗斗，有时候你会得不到自己应得的上场机会，”陈梓蒙说。他还表示，与亚洲人相比，一些教练会给美国球员更多机会。
“But at end of the day,” he said, “we reached a consensus that we have to bear down, pay the price, because we’re working our butts off for Chinese hockey, for our country. A little adversity is nothing.”
“但最终，”他说。“我们达成一致，我们得更加努力，付出代价，因为我们要为中国冰球，为我们的祖国拼尽全力。一点逆境不算什么。”