BEIJING — Chinese officials are urging the government of Afghanistan to restart peace talks with the Taliban after the last round of discussions collapsed, the Chinese Foreign Ministry has said.
北京——中国外交部表示，中国官员正在敦促阿富汗政府重启与塔利班的和平谈判，此前，双方的最后一轮讨论已崩溃。
The statement by China late Tuesday was a sign that its leaders were asserting their commitment to the nascent peace process despite problems after the major countries involved learned last year that a Taliban founder, Mullah Muhammad Omar, had been dead for two years. That caused a split in the Taliban ranks and raised questions among the participants in the talks.
外交部周二晚的声明表明，中国领导人肯定了他们对新生和平进程的承诺，尽管这一进程去年面临问题，原因是几个主要有关国家获知塔利班创始人毛拉穆罕默德·奥马尔(Mullah Mohammad Omar)已在两年前死亡。他的死亡导致塔利班队伍出现分裂，也给谈判各方提出了问题。
China is a member of the Quadrilateral Coordination Group, which is promoting the peace process. That process is at such an early stage that the nations are still talking about mechanisms for holding more formal discussions that would, in theory, involve representatives of the Taliban. The group, which also includes Afghanistan, the United States and Pakistan, is expected to meet in February in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad.
中国是推动和平进程的四方协调小组的成员国之一。和平进程目前处于相当早期的阶段，各国仍在讨论如何举行更正式谈判的机制问题，这些谈判在理论上将会有塔利班的代表参加。协调小组成员还包括阿富汗、美国和巴基斯坦，预计四方将于2月份在巴基斯坦首都伊斯兰堡会面。
The Afghan and United States governments are hoping that China will exert greater influence in the talks on Pakistan, which helped create the Taliban in the 1990s and is a Chinese ally.
阿富汗政府和美国政府都希望，中国在会面时对巴基斯坦施展更大的影响力，巴基斯坦在20世纪90年代帮助创建了塔利班，该国是中国的盟友。
Li Yuanchao, the Chinese vice president, and Wang Yi, the Chinese foreign minister, met in Beijing on Tuesday with Salahuddin Rabbani, the Afghan foreign minister.
中国国家副主席李源潮以及中国外交部部长王毅周二在北京会见了阿富汗外长萨拉胡丁·拉巴尼(Salahuddin Rabbani)。
Afterward, the Chinese Foreign Ministry announced: “Wang Yi said that as a peaceful mediator of the Afghan issue, China supports the ‘Afghan-led and Afghan-owned’ reconciliation process. China appreciates the move by the Afghan government to restart the negotiations with the Taliban.”
随后，中国外交部宣布：“王毅强调，作为阿富汗问题的和平斡旋者，中国支持‘阿人主导、阿人所有’的和解进程，赞赏阿富汗政府与塔利班复谈。”
The announcement said this was “the right approach to achieve long-term stability in Afghanistan.”
王毅还说，这“是阿富汗实现长治久安的正确途径”。
Fighting between the Taliban and the Afghan government has worsened in the last year, as the Taliban have occupied more land and laid siege to important cities. The death toll of Afghan soldiers and civilians in 2015 reached its highest point in years.
塔利班和阿富汗政府之间的战斗在过去一年中有所加剧，由于塔利班占据了更多的土地，还包围了重要城市。2015年，阿富汗士兵及平民的死亡人数达到了数年来的最高点。
President Xi Jinping of China has announced strategic economic plans for China and Central Asia, and a peaceful Afghanistan could play a bigger role in those plans. According to the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Rabbani told Mr. Wang on Tuesday that “Afghanistan is willing to continue to expand its mutual interests with China and actively participate in the construction of ‘One Belt, One Road,’ ” a reference to the name that Mr. Xi uses for his regional economic plans.
中国国家主席习近平宣布了针对中国和中亚的战略经济计划，和平的阿富汗可在这一计划中发挥更大的作用。据中国外交部，拉巴尼周二对王毅说：“阿富汗愿与中方不断拓展两国共同利益，积极参与‘一带一路’建设。”“一带一路”是习近平给其区域经济计划起的名字。
The Foreign Ministry also listed points on which China and Afghanistan had reached consensus, including an acknowledgment of Afghanistan’s desire to be a member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, two multinational institutions of which China was a founder.
外交部还开列了中国与阿富汗已经达成的几条共识，其中提到阿富汗希望成为上海合作组织成员国、加入亚洲基础设施投资银行的愿望，中国是这两个跨国机构的创始者。
On Monday, the day of Mr. Rabbani’s arrival in China, Peking University, one of the country’s leading universities, hosted a news conference to discuss a 2015 survey of Afghans conducted by the Asia Foundation, a nongovernmental organization based in San Francisco. The results showed that Afghans’ optimism and confidence in their government and their country’s future had plummeted to the lowest points in a decade. Representatives of Chinese commercial interests in Afghanistan were at the news conference and raised questions about the country’s stability.
拉巴尼于周一抵达中国，中国知名学府之一北京大学在当天主持召开的记者会上，讨论了总部设在旧金山的非政府组织亚洲基金会做的2015年阿富汗民意调查。调查显示，阿富汗人对自己的政府和国家的乐观情绪和信心，已跌至十年来的最低点。中国商业利益在阿富汗的代表出席了记者会，他们提了有关阿富汗国家稳定的问题。