China has joined international voices calling for peace and stability in Ukraine, while continuing to withhold criticism of Russia, its traditional partner.
中国与国际社会一同呼吁乌克兰恢复和平与稳定，同时却继续拒绝指责其传统伙伴俄罗斯。
Late Tuesday, President Xi Jinping spoke with President Vladimir V. Putin by telephone about the continuing crisis in Ukraine, where Russia has effectively occupied the Crimea region following the ouster of President Viktor F. Yanukovych, a close ally of Moscow. According to a statement from the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Mr. Xi told Mr. Putin that China supports efforts by the international community to reduce tensions.
本周二晚间，中国国家主席习近平和俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在电话里讨论了乌克兰持续不断的危机。俄罗斯的亲密盟友、乌克兰总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)被罢黜后，俄罗斯实际上已经占领了乌克兰的克里米亚地区。根据中国外交部发布的一则声明，习近平对普京说，中国支持国际社会为缓和紧张局势所做的努力。
Mr. Xi said that China believes that Russia can coordinate with other parties to push for the political settlement of the issue so as to safeguard regional and world peace and stability, the statement said.
声明表示，习近平说，相信俄方能同各方协调，推动问题得到政治解决，维护地区和世界和平稳定。
China’s official response may have fallen short of what Russia was hoping for from its strategic partner. The Russian Foreign Ministry released a statement Monday suggesting that Moscow has a strong ally in Beijing. China and Russia have “broadly coinciding points of view” on the Ukrainian situation, the statement said, according to Sky News.
中国的官方回应也许没能达到俄罗斯对其战略盟友的期望。俄罗斯外交部曾于周一发表声明，暗示俄罗斯在北京有一名强大的盟友。据天空新闻(Sky News)报道，声明说，中俄在乌克兰局势问题上持有“广泛一致的见解”。
The Chinese Foreign Ministry, however, was more circumspect, merely noting that the two sides agreed the issue should be “handled appropriately.” Ministry representatives have so far skirted questions about whether China supports Russia’s recent moves in Ukraine.
不过，中国外交部的态度较为含糊，说的只是双方均认为这个问题应该得到“恰当的处理”。到目前为止，中国外交部的代表一直对中国是否支持俄罗斯近期在乌克兰的行动的提问避而不答。
On Monday, one spokesman, Qin Gang, deflected a question on the issue and repeated that China upholds the principle of noninterference in other countries’ affairs and respects the “independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity” of Ukraine.
本周一，外交部发言人秦刚避开了相关提问，重申中国将坚持不干涉别国内政的原则，尊重乌克兰的“独立、主权和领土完整”。
Chen Yurong, a scholar of Chinese-Russian relations at the China Institute of International Studies in Beijing, said in an interview that the Chinese Foreign Ministry has not given a direct answer because it is not an “issue for China to say yes or no” on. Russia’s actions toward Ukraine are Russia’s internal affair, Ms. Chen said.
中国国际问题研究所的中俄关系学者陈玉蓉在采访中表示，中国外交部没有直接回答这个问题，是因为这不是一个“中国可以说是道非的问题”。陈玉蓉说，俄罗斯对乌克兰的行动是俄罗斯内政。
Other Chinese analysts reiterated that what China wants to see is stability.
其他中国分析人士重申，中国希望看到的是稳定。
“It’s not just that Ukraine is China’s old friend,” said Feng Shaolei, dean of the advanced international and area studies school at the East China Normal University. China also has other interests there.
华东师范大学国际关系和地区发展研究院院长冯绍雷表示，“这不仅仅因为乌克兰是中国的老朋友。”中国在乌克兰还有其他利益。
For one thing, he said, China is facing significant challenges in its agriculture, and can cooperate with Ukraine on these. He also cited an agreement a Chinese company signed during former President Yanukovych’s visit to Beijing in December to invest $3 billion to build a port in Sevastopol.
他表示，其中之一是中国的农业正面临严重挑战，可以与乌克兰就此展开合作。他还提到了一家中国公司在去年12月前总统亚努科维奇访问北京期间签订的一项协议，该公司准备投资30亿美元（约合184亿元人民币）在塞瓦斯托波尔建设港口。