HONG KONG — If the missing Malaysia Airlines jetliner flew north over the Asian mainland after it lost contact with ground controllers on March 8, it would have had a difficult time avoiding detection by Chinese, Indian or American radar, current and former military officers say.
香港——一些现任或前任军官表示，假如失联的马航客机在3月8日与地面控制人员失去联络后向北飞到了亚洲大陆上空，它恐怕很难躲过中方、印方或美方雷达的探测。
Investigators say that automated signals from the jet, a Boeing 777, that were picked up by a satellite more than seven hours after the plane took off indicate that by then it must have been somewhere near one of two broad arcs on the map. One arc stretches from northern Thailand and Laos through China to Kazakhstan in Central Asia; the other extends from western Indonesia into the Indian Ocean west of Australia.
调查人员说，失联的波音777飞机起飞7个多小时后，一颗卫星接收到了飞机自动发射的信号，这个事实意味着，飞机当时一定位于地图上两道广阔的弧形走廊附近的某个地点。其中一道弧形走廊从泰国北部延伸至老挝，穿过中国，直抵中亚的哈萨克斯坦；另一道走廊从印度尼西亚西部延伸到了澳大利亚以西的印度洋。
The northern arc crosses some of the most closely defended borders in the world. Experts on the radar systems in use in the area say that a Boeing 777, which has a large radar profile, would more likely than not have been detected by Chinese and Indian air defense forces and by American forces in Afghanistan.
北边的弧形走廊穿越了全球防御最严密的一些边境线。一些了解该区域现有雷达系统的专家表示，波音777的雷达反射剖面面积巨大，多半会被中印两国防空力量和驻阿富汗美军侦测到。
China, the original destination for the flight, is guarded by military radar systems at high elevations in its border areas and even in its interior, where the People’s Liberation Army controls most of the country’s airspace. The border between India and Pakistan is highly militarized, and radar experts and Indian military officials discounted the possibility that a jetliner could pass through the area undetected. Farther northwest, the United States Air Force has its own radar installations in Afghanistan to protect air bases there from intruders.
在失联航班的原定目的地中国，边境高海拔地区乃至内陆都部署了军用雷达系统，中国人民解放军控制着中国的大部分空域。印度和巴基斯坦之间的边境地区处于高度军事化状态，一些雷达专家和印度军官认为，客机在不被察觉的情况下通过该区域的可能性很小。在更偏西北的地方，美国空军在阿富汗境内安装了自己的雷达系统，目的是防止外人闯入当地的空军基地。
“It is not out of the realm of possibility that you could pull this off, but everything would have to go your way,” said Sean O’Connor, a former intelligence analyst for the Air Force who studies air defense systems. “I wouldn’t be looking through China and that northern route.”
美国空军前情报分析员、研究防空系统的肖恩·奥康纳(Sean O’Connor)说，“飞越北线并不是完全没有可能，不过，那得是一切情况都对你有利才行。我不会在中国境内和北线走廊寻找失联飞机。”
It is difficult to get a complete picture of the radar capabilities of countries in the region because military officials are unwilling to disclose details of their air defense systems. But experts said that the military forces arrayed in the Asian interior, especially in China, India, Pakistan and Afghanistan, would not be likely to overlook or ignore unidentified aircraft.
由于军官们不愿披露各自防空系统的细节，外界难以全面了解该区域各国的雷达侦测能力。不过，专家们表示，部署在亚洲内陆的军事力量，尤其是部署在中国、印度、巴基斯坦和阿富汗的军力，不太可能漏掉或忽略身份不明的飞行物。
That stance contrasts with Southeast Asia, where the flight originated. Malaysian military operators took no action when their radar detected an unidentified aircraft traveling across the country, not even when it approached the island of Penang, one of Malaysia’s most populous urban areas. That aircraft is now thought to have been the missing plane, Flight 370, but the significance of the radar traces was not recognized until hours later.
这种情况和航班的始发地东南亚形成了鲜明的对比。马来西亚军事人员虽然探测到了一架飞越本国的不明飞行器，但却没有采取行动，甚至在它接近槟榔屿时都未采取行动，尽管槟榔屿是马来西亚人口最稠密的城市区域之一。这架飞行器现已被认定为失联的370次班机，然而，直到事发数小时之后，马方才意识到军方雷达追踪到的痕迹的重要性。
Thai military radar at three different bases also tracked an unidentified contact moving west across the peninsula the country shares with Malaysia on March 8, but officials did not say so until Tuesday, 10 days after Flight 370 disappeared.
3月8日，泰国三个基地的军用雷达也侦测到了一个身份不明的信号，该信号正在穿越该国与马来西亚分治的半岛地区。不过，官员们到本周二才承认这一点，此时370次航班已消失了十天。
And a senior Indian military officer said it was possible that radar on the country’s islands in the Bay of Bengal could have missed the plane, which was last plotted flying in their general direction.
印度一名高级军官表示，孟加拉湾印属岛屿上的雷达没有探测到飞机是可能的。最后被人发现时，飞机正大致朝着印属岛屿的方向飞行。
China, though, has radar installations arrayed on mountains with overlapping coverage and the ability to look deep into neighboring countries, according to Mark Stokes, a former United States military attaché in China who is now the executive director of a defense research group, the Project 2049 Institute in Arlington, Va.
然而，据前美国驻中国大使馆武官石明凯(Mark Stokes)透露，中国在山区设有交叉覆盖的雷达装置，拥有深度探测邻国的能力。石明凯目前在国防研究组织2049项目研究所(Project 2049 Institute)担任执行主任，该研究所位于弗吉尼亚州阿灵顿。
The Chinese are probably “a little bit more on the ball,” Mr. Stokes said.
石明凯表示，中国人多半会“更加警惕”。
An aircraft spotted on radar whose transponders were not “squawking,” or emitting identifying information, the way Flight 370 had gone silent after turning off course, would surely attract the attention of the Chinese forces, according to Mr. Stokes. “I would say there is a high degree of likelihood that the Chinese surveillance system would pick it up,” he said.
石明凯表示，如果雷达探测到一架飞行器，飞行器的应答器又没有“做声”，也就是没有发送识别信息——370次航班偏离航线后就是如此——这种情况肯定会引起中国军方的注意。他说，“我觉得，中国的监控系统发现它的可能性非常大。”
China’s network is especially intensive north of Thailand, Myanmar and Laos in Yunnan Province, where many of China’s nuclear missiles are based, Mr. Stokes and Mr. O’Connor said in separate interviews.
分别接受采访时，石明凯和奥康纳都表示，中国在泰国、缅甸和老挝以北的云南省部署的监控网尤为密集，中国的很多核导弹都部署在这里。
Hong Lei, a spokesman for China’s Foreign Ministry, told reporters in Beijing on Tuesday that China was using satellites to hunt for any sign of the missing airplane. Asked whether it could have flown through China undetected, Mr. Hong said, “The relevant work of the investigation is currently being carried out.”
周二，中国外交部发言人洪磊在北京告诉记者，中国正在利用卫星搜寻失联飞机的迹象。被问及飞机是否未被察觉地飞越了中国时，洪磊表示。“相关调查工作目前正在进行中。”
The Indian radar systems in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands might have missed the plane, the senior Indian military official said, because the islands are “not a tense area.” But analysts said India’s air defenses in the north, near China and Pakistan, are more robust — an opinion shared by one Indian Air Force pilot who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to reporters.
前述印度高级军官表示，印度在安达曼和尼科巴群岛的雷达系统可能没有探测到飞机，因为这些岛屿“不是重点区域”。但分析人士表示，印度在靠近中国和巴基斯坦的北部地区部署的防空系统比较强大，一名印度空军飞行员也表达了相同观点。这名飞行员要求匿名，因为他没有获得向记者发布信息的授权。
“There is no way or the slightest possibility of our radars’ having missed the plane,” the Indian pilot said. “We do not have an open air policy. Any blip, the slightest, has to be given attention. Most of our radars are semi-automated. If there is any aircraft not identified by virtue of its registration or identification, there will be an instant reaction at our end.”
“我们的雷达没有探测到飞机的可能性不存在，就算存在也非常小，”前述印度飞行员说。“我们没有开放领空的政策。任何光点，哪怕是最小的光点，都必须予以关注。我们的大多数雷达都是半人工的。如果出现了无法根据注册或识别信息确认的飞机，我们会立即做出反应。
One way the aircraft might have tried to elude detection, Mr. Stokes said, would have been to broadcast bogus identification signals, such as those for a different commercial aircraft on a regular route. Such a “spoof” might well have been spotted, but there would be at least a chance of slipping through.
石明凯表示，飞机尝试躲过探测的方法之一是发送假的识别信号，比如定期航线上另一架商用飞机的识别信号。这样的“把戏”穿帮的可能性很大，但至少有机会蒙混过关。
All told, though, the odds are heavily against the missing plane’s having reached the northern search arc unnoticed, said Mr. O’Connor: “I would be more inclined to look at that southern route.”
奥康纳表示，总之，失联飞机在不被发现的情况下到达北方搜索弧线的几率非常小，“我更倾向于在南线寻找。”