No scandal in recent years has hung over the art market as heavily as the Knoedler & Company forgery case.
近些年，没有哪桩丑闻像诺德勒公司(Knoedler & Company)伪造案这样沉重地笼罩艺术市场。
At its heart lies a mystery. Was Knoedler, the distinguished old gallery that sold more than 30 fake paintings said to be by Pollock, de Kooning and other titans of Abstract Expressionism, in on the scam? Or were the gallery and its longtime director, Ann Freedman, cruelly hoodwinked along with collectors who together paid around $63 million for the bogus works?
此案的核心是个谜团。诺德勒画廊历史悠久，享有盛誉，却卖出30多件伪作，称它们出自波洛克(Pollock)和德库宁(de Kooning)等抽象表现主义大师之手。画廊有没有参与欺诈？它和它的长期主管安妮·弗里德曼(Ann Freedman)是否和收藏家们一样遭到了可怕的蒙骗？那些收藏家们购买这些伪作所花费的金额达到6300万美元。
This week the puzzle may start to unravel: The first trial to arise from the sales, in a lawsuit involving the 2004 purchase of a fraudulent Rothko, is to open on Monday in United States District Court in Manhattan. A parade of witnesses from the art world are to testify, just possibly including Glafira Rosales, the former Long Island dealer who, for 15 years, consigned fakes to Knoedler, passing them off as masterworks from a mysterious collection based in Zurich and Mexico City.
本周（1月24日至1月30日），这个谜团也许可以开始破解了：周一（1月25日），此案的第一次审判在曼哈顿的美国地方法院开庭。本次诉讼涉及2004年购买的一件罗思科(Rothko)伪作。艺术界的很多证人将出庭作证，很可能包括格拉菲拉·罗萨莱斯(Glafira Rosales)，她曾是长岛的一名交易商，15年来，她把很多伪作委托给诺德勒画廊，谎称它们是大师杰作，来自慕尼黑和墨西哥城的神秘收藏者。
All of them had actually been painted by a Chinese immigrant in Queens.
实际上，那些画都是皇后区一位中国移民画的。
“It’s a unique opportunity for a public hearing of the machinations of the art world, which are usually very discreet,” said Nicholas M. O’Donnell, an art lawyer in Boston.
波士顿艺术品律师尼古拉斯·M·奥唐奈(Nicholas M. O’Donnell)说：“公开审理艺术界的阴谋是个难得的机会，这些阴谋往往非常隐秘。”
Central to the trial will be the testimony of Ms. Freedman, the art expert who was Knoedler’s director in 2011, when the 165-year-old gallery abruptly closed in advance of what turned out to be an avalanche of lawsuits.
本次审判的核心将是弗里德曼的证词。弗里德曼本人也是艺术专家。2011年，拥有165年历史的诺德勒画廊在一连串雪崩般的诉讼到来之前突然关闭，当时弗里德曼担任它的主管。
Among the likely witnesses is Domenico De Sole, chairman of Sotheby’s, who with his family paid $8.3 million for the fake Rothko, “Untitled, 1956,” a painting featuring large red and black rectangles.
其他可能的证人包括苏富比拍卖行(Sotheby’s)主席多梅尼科·德索尔(Domenico De Sole)，他和自己的家族花费830万美元买下一幅罗思科伪作《无题，1956》(Untitled, 1956)，画面上是巨大的红黑矩形。
It turned out to be one of the fakes that investigators say Ms. Rosales supplied to Knoedler, bargaining that the gallery’s reputation and the traditional opacity of art market transactions would mask the fraud.
侦查员们认为，这幅画是罗萨莱斯提供给诺德勒画廊的伪作，她本以为这家画廊的声誉，以及艺术市场交易一向的不透明性能掩盖她的欺诈行为。
In 2013 Ms. Rosales pleaded guilty to numerous criminal charges arising from the scam.
2013年，罗萨莱斯对欺诈引起的多起刑事起诉认罪。
At stake in the first trial is a suit filed by the De Soles in which they are seeking $25 million in damages from Ms. Freedman, Knoedler and the gallery’s holding company. Though lawyers expect Ms. Rosales to be called to testify at the trial, they said that she would probably cite her Fifth Amendment right not to do so because she is still awaiting sentencing in the criminal case.
第一次审判的重点是德索尔家族的起诉，该家族要求弗里德曼、诺德勒画廊及其控股公司赔偿2500万美元的损失。虽然律师们希望罗萨莱斯能被传唤出庭作证，但他们说，她很可能会以《第五修正案》(Fifth Amendment)中的权利为由拒绝出庭，因为她仍在等待刑事案件的宣判。
The De Soles argue that Ms. Freedman knew that the Rosales works were counterfeit or consciously ignored obvious signs of fraud for her own personal gain.
德索尔家族认为，弗里德曼知道罗萨莱斯提供的作品是赝品，或者为了私利故意忽视明显的欺诈迹象。
“It really comes down to knowledge,” said Steven R. Schindler, a lawyer who represents two art experts listed as witnesses in the suit. “There will be circumstantial evidence about what she knew and when, and the jury will have to decide whether or not she knew these were fakes, and that the buyer was justified in relying on whatever representation she made.”
律师史蒂文·R·申德勒(Steven R. Schindler)代表两位在诉讼中被列为证人的艺术专家，他说：“这真的要归结到知识问题。有一些间接证据能证明她知道什么，以及何时知道，陪审团届时必须判定她是否知道这些画作是伪作，是否知道买家有理由信赖她代理的任何画作。”
Collectors say Ms. Freedman should have realized the paintings were fake because, among other things, they lacked documentation, the stories about their provenance shifted, and Ms. Rosales was selling them at far-below-market prices. (She paid Ms. Rosales $950,000 for the fake Rothko, a fraction of the ultimate $8.3 million sale price.)
收藏者们称，弗里德曼应该意识到这些画是伪作，因为首先它们没有证明文件，关于它们出处的故事一直在变，罗萨莱斯以远低于市场价的价格出售（弗里德曼以95万美元从罗萨莱斯那里买下一幅罗思科伪作，这个价格只是830万美元的最终售价的零头）。
Ms. Rosales said the paintings had been inherited by the son of a private collector who bought them directly from the artists.
罗萨莱斯称，这些画是一位私人收藏者的儿子继承来的，而画作是那位收藏者直接从艺术家手中购得的。
Ms. Freedman has said that she tried to discover the identity of the collector, but that Ms. Rosales would not divulge it. The De Soles say Ms. Freedman told them that she knew the collector’s identity but had to keep it confidential.
弗里德曼说，她很想弄清那位收藏者的身份，但罗萨莱斯不肯透露。德索尔说，弗里德曼告诉他们，她知道收藏者的身份，但必须保密。
“The evidence will show definitively that only Ann Freedman knew about all of the red flags,” said Gregory A. Clarick, the lawyer for the De Soles, “and the red flags signaled clear as day that the works were fake.”
德索尔的律师格雷戈里·A·克莱里克(Gregory A. Clarick)说，“证据将清楚表明，只有安妮·弗里德曼知道所有的危险迹象。这些迹象清楚地表明，那些作品是伪造的。”
Ms. Freedman counters that she was so convinced the paintings were real that she acquired three for herself, and that what later were viewed as warning signs were there for others to see, too. She says a number of experts also vouched for their authenticity. Testimony from those experts about what they told her is to be part of the trial, which is expected to last about a month.
弗里德曼反驳说，当时她深信那些画作是真品，她给自己也买了三幅，而且后来被认为是危险迹象的东西其他人也看到了。她说，还有几位专家为画作的真实性做了担保。那些专家将就当时对她说的话提供证词，这也是审判的一部分。审判可能会持续一个月左右。
“If the world is tricked, if the world believed, why is Ann Freedman being singled out?” said Luke Nikas, her lawyer. “They went through some of the most prominent hands in the art world, and passed before some of the most expert eyes.”
弗里德曼的律师卢克·尼卡斯(Luke Nikas)说：“如果全世界都被骗了，如果全世界都信了，那么为什么安妮·弗里德曼要独自承担罪责？那些画经过了艺术界最著名的一些人物审查，经过了最著名的一些专家鉴定。”
If Mr. Nikas is right, the trial may end up becoming not just a dispute over a single sale from 2004 but also an examination of the extent to which experts can reliably determine authenticity, even as art is increasingly treated like currency.
如果尼卡斯的观点是对的，那么这场审判最后可能不仅是关于2004年一次艺术品交易的纠纷，而是关于专家们能在多大程度上鉴定艺术品的真伪——如今艺术品正日益被视为通货。
“With all the money that has poured into the market since then,” Mr. O’Donnell said, “these questions have become even more important.”
奥唐奈说：“考虑到从那时起涌入艺术市场的大量金钱，这些问题显得更加重要。”
Among those expected to appear are Christopher Rothko, the son of the painter; James Martin, a materials expert and one of the first people to declare the works to be fakes; James Coddington, chief conservator at the Museum of Modern Art; Laili Nasr, a curator at the National Gallery of Art in Washington; other victims of Ms. Rosales; and art appraisers and forensic accountants.
其他有望出席审判的包括画家罗思科的儿子克里斯托弗·罗思科(Christopher Rothko)；材料专家詹姆斯·马丁(James Martin)，他是最先宣布这些作品是伪作的人之一；MoMA的首席保管员詹姆斯·科丁顿(James Coddington)；华盛顿国家艺术馆(National Gallery of Art)的策展人莱利·纳斯尔(Laili Nasr)；罗萨莱斯的其他受害者；以及艺术鉴定人和法务会计师。
David Anfam, an art historian and Rothko expert whom Ms. Freedman cited as one of the people whose judgment about the painting she had relied on, is also scheduled to testify. Her lawyers say that Mr. Anfam was enthusiastic in his endorsement of the Rosales paintings. Testifying in a deposition, however, Mr. Anfam seemed to take issue with Ms. Freedman’s characterization, saying that he “never formally authenticated” any of the Rosales works.
弗里德曼提到，自己曾参考艺术史学家、罗思科专家大卫·安法姆(David Anfam)的判断。安法姆也计划出庭作证。弗里德曼的律师说，安法姆曾热情认可罗萨莱斯提供的画作。不过，安法姆在证词中似乎不赞同弗里德曼的说法，称自己“从未正式鉴定过”罗萨莱斯的任何作品。
Amelia K. Brancov, an art market lawyer, said, “It is going to be a question of what were the experts asked to do and what were they told about the background of the paintings.”
艺术市场律师阿梅莉亚·K·布朗科夫(Amelia K. Brancov)说：“专家们被要求去做什么，以及他们被告知的画作背景信息是怎样的，这些都会成为问题。”
In a Federal District Court ruling in October, explaining why the trial would be allowed to proceed, Judge Paul G. Gardephe said that there was “ample circumstantial evidence demonstrating that Freedman acted with fraudulent intent and understood that the Rosales paintings were not authentic.”
在10月份的联邦地方法院裁决中，法官保罗·G·加德菲(Paul G. Gardephe)这样解释审判被允许进行的原因：“有足够的间接证据表明，弗里德曼在行动中带有欺骗意图，她知道罗萨莱斯的画作不是真的”。
Judge Gardephe concluded that Ms. Freedman had exaggerated the significance of what the experts had told her about the authenticity of the works.
加德菲法官表示，弗里德曼夸大了专家关于这些作品真实性的判断对她的影响。
Nonetheless, now that the case is at trial, several lawyers said it could be difficult to prove to a jury that she knowingly committed fraud.
有几位律师表示，尽管如此，此案在审理过程中，很难向陪审团证明她是故意欺诈。
“It is really hard to make a convincing case about what someone else thought,” Mr. O’Donnell said.
奥唐奈说：“真的很难证明别人是怎么想的。”
In arguing that she believed in their authenticity, Ms. Freedman is expected to point out that she exhibited the works publicly around the world and owned several of them. (She swapped a Diebenkorn she owned for a so-called Rothko; bought a fake Motherwell for $15,000; and bought a bogus Pollock for $280,000, even though the artist’s signature was misspelled “Pollok.” Judge Gardephe concluded that the exhibiting of the works created “a facade of credibility,” and that Ms. Freedman used personal ownership as a “promotional device.”
弗里德曼在证明自己相信这些画作的真实性时，可能会指出，她曾在世界各地公开展示这些作品，她本人也拥有其中几幅画（她用一幅迪本科恩[Diebenkorn]画作换了一幅罗思科伪作；以1.5万美元买了一幅马瑟韦尔[Motherwell]伪作；以28万美元买了一幅波洛克伪作，尽管这位艺术家的签名被误写成Pollok）。法官加德菲认为，展示这些作品是为了营造“可信的表象”，弗里德曼本人拥有其中一些画作是“一种宣传手段”。
Ms. Freedman will have to explain why she continued selling the Rosales paintings even when problems were flagged. In 2003, for example, the nonprofit International Foundation for Art Research declined to vouch for a painting said to be a Pollock, leading Ms. Freedman to repay $2 million to a collector who had bought it two years earlier. Mr. Nikas, however, said Ms. Freedman had shown the foundation’s report to other experts, who judged it irrelevant.
弗里德曼必须解释，为什么在出现问题之后，她依然继续出售罗萨莱斯的伪作。比如，2003年，非盈利机构国际艺术研究基金会(International Foundation for Art Research)拒绝担保一幅波洛克伪作，导致弗里德曼给两年前买下这幅画的收藏者赔偿了200万美元。不过，尼卡斯说，弗里德曼把基金会的报告给其他一些专家看了，那些专家们认为那份报告无关紧要。
In all, the scandal has bred 10 lawsuits. Five were settled out of court, and another four are unlikely to go to trial for a year at least, lawyers say.
这桩丑闻共引起10起诉讼。有5起在庭外和解，律师们说，另外4起至少在1年内不会开庭。
Ms. Freedman has not been named as a target in the criminal investigation. Led by the United States Attorney’s Office in Manhattan, the authorities are seeking to extradite the boyfriend of Ms. Rosales and his brother from Spain to face charges of conspiracy, money laundering and fraud.
弗里德曼尚未被列为刑事调查对象。曼哈顿的美国联邦检察官办公室正代表美国政府从西班牙引渡罗萨莱斯的男友及其哥哥（或弟弟），以接受共谋、洗钱和欺诈等指控。
The Queens painter identified by federal authorities as the forger, Pei-Shen Qian, has been charged with conspiracy, fraud and making false statements, but has fled to China. Authorities said that he earned sums ranging from several hundred dollars to as much as $9,000 to create a work.
联邦当局找出的皇后区伪造画家钱培琛也被指控共谋、欺诈及制作虚假陈述，但他已逃往中国。美国政府称，他每创作一幅画，获利数百美元至9000美元不等。
In an ABC News interview in 2013 from Shanghai, Mr. Qian said that he never knew his works were being sold as fake masterpieces.
2013年，钱在上海接受ABC新闻采访时表示，他从不知道自己的作品被当作伪造的大师作品出售。
“If you look at my bank account,” he said, “you’ll see there is no income.”
他说：“你看看我的银行账户，就会发现没有任何收入。”