China is entering a “brand-new historical era” in polar development, a senior Chinese official said in commentary published on Wednesday, a day after President Xi Jinping boarded a Chinese icebreaker and attended the signing of an agreement with Australia to strengthen their collaboration in Antarctica.
一位中国高级官员周三发表评论称，中国正在进入极地考察的“全新历史阶段”，一天前，国家主席习近平登上了一艘中国破冰船，出席了与澳大利亚签署加强南极合作协议的仪式。
“Today, we are already standing at the starting point of a brand-new historical era, of striding toward becoming a polar-region power,” the official, Liu Cigui, director of the State Oceanic Administration, wrote in China Ocean News.
“今天，我们已经站在迈向极地强国这个全新历史阶段的起点上，”国家海洋局局长刘赐贵在《中国海洋报》上写道。
In an overview of China’s development in the polar region, starting from the country’s dreams of carrying out polar exploration in the 1950s, Mr. Liu noted that the first two Chinese scientists to embark on an Antarctic research trip traveled as part of an Australian expedition.
刘赐贵在评论中从20世纪50年代中国开展极地考察的设想开始，回顾了国家极地考察的历史，他指出，最早踏上南极科考之旅的两名中国科学家是作为澳大利亚探险队成员前往那里的。
That fact seemed particularly compelling as Mr. Xi and Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia oversaw the signing on Tuesday of the memorandum of understanding to strengthen ties on joint work in Antarctica.
在习近平与澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)见证了中澳南极合作谅解备忘录的签署之际，这一事实似乎尤其值得一提。
China was a late starter in polar exploration. But since 2005, the country has made rapid strides in increasing its presence in Antarctica and “seeking to increase its level of engagement in Antarctic governance,” Anne-Marie Brady, an expert on China polar policy at the Wilson Center in Washington, wrote on the center’s website.
中国的极地考察起步较晚。但自2005年以来，中国快速加大了南极活动的步伐，并“寻求增加其参与南极治理的层次，”华盛顿威尔逊中心(the Wilson Center)的中国极地政策专家安妮 - 玛丽·布雷迪(Anne-Marie Brady)在该中心的网站上写道。
In the agreement on Tuesday, China and Australia said they would establish a mechanism to work together on diplomacy, science, logistics and operations and would set up a committee that would meet every two years to discuss cooperative actions and exchanges, according to a statement released by the Australian government.
据澳大利亚政府公布的一份声明，在周二的谅解备忘录中，中国和澳大利亚表示，他们将在外交、科学、后勤和作业等方面进行合作，将成立南极与南大洋合作联合委员会，每两年举行一次会议，讨论合作活动和交流。
As part of the agreement, the countries reaffirmed their commitment to the existing Antarctic Treaty System, which, among other factors, bans the extraction of minerals.
作为备忘录的一部分，两国重申坚持履行现有的《南极条约》(Antarctic Treaty System)，该条约禁止的活动中包括矿物开采。
After the signing ceremony, Mr. Xi visited China’s only icebreaker, currently anchored in Hobart, the capital of the Australian island of Tasmania, where he viewed a photography exhibition commemorating the 30th anniversary of China’s first polar expedition. The ship, called Xuelong, or Snow Dragon, regularly docks in Hobart for restocking, as do ships from other countries on similar missions. It is en route to China’s 31st Antarctic expedition.
签字仪式结束后，习近平登上了中国唯一一艘破冰船，这艘船目前停靠在澳大利亚塔斯马尼亚岛首府霍巴特，他在船上参观了一个纪念中国首次极地科考30周年的摄影展。这艘名为“雪龙号”的船定期在霍巴特的码头进行补给，其他国家进行类似任务的船只也常这样做。“雪龙号”正在执行中国第31次南极科考任务的途中。
Mr. Xi and Mr. Abbott also held a teleconference with Chinese and Australian scientists stationed at their respective bases in the South Pole. Australia has three permanent research bases on the Antarctic continent; China has four and plans to build a fifth by the end of 2015. The United States, Britain and Russia are among other countries with permanent research bases on the southern continent.
习近平和阿博特还与驻扎在各自南极基地的中国和澳大利亚的科学家开了视频电话会议。澳大利亚在南极大陆有三个永久性研究基地；中国有四个，并计划在2015年底建成第五个。美国、英国和俄罗斯等国也在南极洲有永久性研究基地。
Mr. Liu, the Chinese official, wrote in his commentary that 2015 to 2030 will be “an important period” in China’s efforts to become “a polar expedition power.”
国家海洋局局长刘赐贵在评论中写道，2015年到2030年将是中国“建设成为极地考察强国的重要阶段”。