China is stepping up efforts to ban smoking in public places by ordering Communist Party officials to “lead by example” and refrain from smoking in government offices, schools, hospitals, sports and cultural venues and on public transport. Party officials have also been ordered to ask others not to smoke in public.
中国加大在公共场所禁烟的力度，下令共产党官员“带头”不在政府办公室、学校、医院、体育和文化场所，以及公共交通工具内吸烟。共产党官员也被要求在公共场所制止他人抽烟。
The new directive forbids government offices from spending public funds on tobacco and bars tobacco companies from sponsoring government or Communist Party events.
新规定还禁止政府部门使用公款支付烟草消费开支，禁止烟草公司赞助政府或共产党的公务活动。
“In recent years, thanks to joint efforts, the ban on smoking in public venues has made progress. However, we see that smoking in public is still common,” read the official document issued Sunday by the Communist Party Central Committee and the State Council, China’s cabinet. “Smoking by some party officials not only endangers public health, but also damages the image of the party and the government.”
中共中央办公厅以及国务院办公厅上周日印发的新通知称，“近年来，通过各方共同努力，公共场所禁烟工作取得积极进展。但也要看到，在公共场所吸烟的现象仍较普遍，特别是少数领导干部在公共场所吸烟，不仅危害公共环境和公众健康，而且损害党政机关和领导干部形象。”
The party urged its members to quit smoking and to convince others to quit while it aimed to build “a good societal atmosphere of banning and controlling smoking.” Officials who violate this ban are to be subject to “criticism, education, party discipline or even the law, in especially serious cases.”
共产党敦促党员戒烟并劝说他人戒烟，以“在全社会形成禁烟控烟的良好氛围。”违反规定的领导干部“要给予批评教育，造成恶劣影响的，要依纪依法严肃处理。”
The ban was read by solemn news anchors multiple times on national television Sunday.
新禁令周日在国家电视台由严肃的新闻主持人多次宣读。
China first attempted to ban smoking in some public venues in 1993. Signs prohibiting smoking are a common sight in restaurants, tea houses and shopping malls. However, they are mostly viewed as a suggestion. Without no penalty in place, the prohibition is often ignored.
中国在1993年曾首次尝试在一些公共场所禁烟。餐厅、茶馆以及商场内都能看到禁烟的标志，但这大多都被视为建议。由于没有惩罚措施，这些禁烟标志经常被忽视。
Smokers still light up in more than 70 percent of restaurants in China, the state-run People’s Daily newspaper reported in August. An average of 740 million Chinese are exposed to second-hand smoke daily, according to the same survey.
国家媒体《人民日报》8月份的一篇报道称，七成以上中国餐馆内仍有人抽烟。同一调查显示，中国有7.4亿人遭受二手烟危害。
Some have questioned whether the latest smoking rules will be any more effective. “A high-level official can easily tell a subordinate to put out his cigarette, but what about the other way around?” wrote Bi Hanfeng, a commentator for Xinhua, the state-run news agency.
一些人对最新禁烟规定是否会更加有效表示质疑。国家媒体新华社评论员碧翰烽写道，“如果一个普通干部吸烟，领导还可以制止，但如果是领导带头吸烟，普通干部能够制止吗？”
The state media also praised the new directive as an important step toward reducing corruption.
新华社还称赞新的禁烟规定是减少腐败的重要一步。
“Many have the experience of bribing officials with cigarettes to get things done. Many low-level party members have the experience of keeping officials company when they smoke. A clean government starts with an air-fresh government office,” said Xinhua on its official Sina Weibo microblog.
新华社在其官方新浪微博上发帖称，“不少人都有给官员敬烟办事经验，不少干部也有陪领导抽烟‘成长经验’。风清气正不妨从办公室空气环境做起。”
“This is a chance to discipline the whole party and rebuild the party’s credibility!” said the Henan Daily.
《河南日报》发贴称，“这也是一次(全党)整风肃纪、重塑威信的机会！”