When China’s skies darken with pollution, it is not the only nation to suffer.
当中国的天空因污染而灰暗的时候，受害国并不只有它自己。
Soot, ozone-forming compounds and other pollutants from China can blow east to Korea and Japan. Ultimately, some even reach the west coast of the United States, scientists say.
来自中国的黑烟及可生成臭氧的化合物等污染物能向东迁移至朝韩和日本。科学家表示，其中一部分甚至能最终抵达美国西海岸。
Other nations generate pollution too, of course, so the wafting of bad air from China adds to local problems. China’s emissions worry countries in the path of the plumes, but in a region where political tensions often run high, international solutions are largely elusive.
当然，其他国家也会产生污染物，因此，中国飘来的糟糕气体更加重了当地的问题。中国的污染令其排放路径上的各个国家感到担忧，但在这样一个局势常常趋紧的地区，这方面的国际解决方案却基本空缺。
“The countries most directly affected by air pollution from China are its nearest neighbors,” Paul Harris, the chair professor of global and environmental studies at the Hong Kong Institute of Education, said in an email. “As with every other aspect of relations with China, there is a limit to what they can do about it.”
“受中国大气污染影响最直接的国家是其近邻，”香港教育学院全球与环境研究讲座教授保罗·哈里斯(Paul Harris)通过电子邮件接受采访称。“与对华关系的其他每个方面一样，它们能采取的措施有限。”
China’s coal plants and vehicles emit a suite of emissions, including sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon dioxide, mercury and small particles (soot). Some pollutants, including carbon dioxide, contribute to the worldwide problem of climate change. Others stir more immediate health concerns for China’s neighbors, as well as for China itself. Mercury can fall to earth with rain, harming the ocean and fish. Ozone and fine particles, sometimes found far from their sources, pose problems because breathing too much of them can lead to lung damage.
中国的煤电厂和机动车排放出各种物质，比如二氧化硫、氮氧化物、二氧化碳、汞和小颗粒物（黑烟）。包括二氧化碳在内的部分污染物对气候变化的全球问题有所贡献。其他一些污染物则激起了邻国及中国自身更为急迫的健康担忧。汞可以通过降水落到地表，危及海洋与鱼类。臭氧和细颗粒物有时会出现在远离排放源的地方，而它们之所以会带来问题，是因为吸入太多可能导致肺部损伤。
Recent research in Japan suggests that China’s contribution to average annual fine-particle pollution ranges from 40 percent in the Tokyo area to 60 percent in Kyushu, which is closer to China, according to Hiroshi Tanimoto, who heads the global atmospheric chemistry section at Japan’s National Institute for Environmental Studies. On average, about 10 percent to 20 percent of Japan’s springtime ozone comes from Chinese emissions, he said.
日本国立环境研究所(National Institute for Environmental Studies)的地球大气化学研究室室长谷本浩志(Hiroshi Tanimoto)表示，该国近期的研究表明，中国对其年均细颗粒物污染的贡献率在东京地区的40%到更靠近中国的九州岛的60%之间。他还称，日本春季的臭氧平均有10%到20%来自中国的排放。
“Transport of air pollutants from China enhances the background level entering into Japan,” Dr. Tanimoto said in an email. The impact to effect on Korea is even greater, he added.
“中国大气污染物的转移增加了进入日本的本底值，”谷本博士在电子邮件中写道。他还表示，这对朝韩的影响更为巨大。
Much depends on wind patterns. Often, the haze over Chinese cities is a product of stagnant air and therefore the pollutants may not travel vast distances, said Michael Prather, a professor of earth system science at the University of California, Irvine. The small particles that reach the United States often come from wind-propelled dust storms in the Gobi Desert, he said. China’s main effect on pollution in the United States, however, involves ozone, scientists say.
这从很大程度上取决于风的状况。加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)的地球系统科学教授迈克尔·普拉瑟(Michael Prather)称，笼罩在中国城市上空的霾往往是气流停滞的产物，因而其中的污染物可能不会远距离流动；抵达美国的小颗粒物则往往来自戈壁沙漠刮起的沙尘暴。不过，科学家们表示，中国的污染对美国影响最大的是臭氧。
The transporting of pollutants across the Pacific Ocean takes at least four or five days, and they ride west-to-east winds at heights of 6,000 feet to 20,000 feet, according to Dan Jaffe, a professor of atmospheric and environmental chemistry at the University of Washington-Bothell. He works at a station 9,000 feet high on a mountain in Oregon because it is easier to measure pollutants from Asia there than at sea level.
华盛顿大学博塞尔校区(University of Washington-Bothell)的大气与环境化学教授丹·贾菲(Dan Jaffe)称，污染物穿过太平洋要耗费至少四五天，而且它们搭乘的是6000英尺（约合1800米）到2万英尺高空的西风。他在俄勒冈州一座山上9000英尺高的站点上做研究，因为那里比海平面更易于测量来自亚洲的污染物。
“People living at higher elevations are definitely getting greater exposure” to pollutants coming from Asia, said Mr. Jaffe. His team uses several tools to identify pollutants that have traveled across the Pacific, including the ratios of pollutants, the amount of mercury, satellite data and computer models.
贾菲称，“住在较高海拔的人们必然会更多地暴露”在来自亚洲的污染物之下。他所在的团队利用数种手段来找出穿越太平洋的污染物，其中包括污染物的比率、汞的含量、卫星数据，以及计算机模型。
Scientists say the Chinese contribution to United States pollution is relatively small, dwarfed by domestic sources.
科学家们认为，中国对美国污染的贡献较小，不及美国本土的污染源。
All countries emit pollutants that affect their neighbors. Europe, downwind of North America, receives some American pollution, for example. The big issue, Dr. Prather said, is the “large-scale building up of this stuff in the Northern Hemisphere,” as well as growing emissions in the Southern Hemisphere from fast-developing economies like Brazil.
所有国家都会排放影响邻国的污染物。比如，处于北美下风向的欧洲会接收一些美国的污染。普拉瑟博士称，真正的大问题是“这些东西在北半球的大规模累积”，以及巴西等高速增长的经济体给南半球带来的排放持续增长。
The emissions from China and elsewhere in Asia have implications for the Pacific Ocean. Traditionally, the Pacific “was a pristine environment,” Dr. Prather said, in contrast to the more polluted North Atlantic. Now, he said, Pacific pollution will increase.
中国等亚洲国家的排放会对太平洋有所影响。普拉瑟博士称，相比污染更为严重的北大西洋，太平洋传统上“环境较为纯净”，而现在，这里的污染将会加重。
China, which accounts for more than half of the world’s coal consumption, is trying to reduce its pollution for the sake of its worried citizens. It has cut its emissions of sulfur dioxide, which can lead to acid rain and fine-particle creation; it is rapidly building clean- energy plants and setting some limits on coal; and it orders reduced car travel on days of bad smog. But its fast-growing economy makes the pollution problem hard to solve.
中国占据全球煤炭消费量的一半以上。由于民众忧心忡忡，该国正试图降低污染。中国已削减了能形成酸雨和细颗粒物的二氧化硫的排放量；正在快速兴建清洁能源工厂并为煤炭设置一定的限制；并且会在严重的雾霾天下令车辆停驶。然而，它快速增长的经济使得污染问题难以解决。
Other Asian nations are engaged, too. Dr. Tanimoto said scientists and officials from Japan, China and South Korea had discussed a joint observation and modeling system. Another promising area is the sharing of pollution control technologies, a subject discussed this month in a meeting of representatives of the three countries. Japan has experience to offer, having reduced its own awful air pollution a few decades ago.
其他一些亚洲国家也在参与问题的解决。谷本博士称，日中韩三国的科学家和官员就建立联合观测与建模系统进行了讨论。另一个颇有前景的领域是分享控污技术。本月三国代表会晤时，商讨了这一议题。日本数十年前减轻了自身严重的大气污染，可以传授相关经验。
But regional cooperation can be hard.
不过，地区合作或许并不容易。
Whereas Europe had success in working to reduce cross-border air pollution in the 1970s and ’80s, “there’s really been no history of that regional cooperation in Asia,” said Loren Cass, an associate professor of political science at the College of the Holy Cross in Massachusetts.
马萨诸塞州圣十字学院(College of the Holy Cross)的政治学副教授洛伦·卡斯(Loren Cass)称，上世纪七八十年代，欧洲在合作减轻跨界大气污染上取得了成功，可是，“亚洲的确没有类似地区合作的历史可言。”