HONG KONG — Chinese regulatory agencies announced fines totaling $46 million against Volkswagen and Chrysler on Thursday after finding them guilty of violating antitrust laws, while the government rejected accusations that multinationals were being singled out for unfair scrutiny.
香港——周四，中国监管机构宣布对大众(Volkswagen)和克莱斯勒(Chrysler)处以共计2.8亿元人民币的罚款，理由是这两家公司违反了反垄断法规。与此同时，政府否认跨国企业成为了不公正严查的靶子。
The penalties on Volkswagen and Chrysler were the latest in a series of tough measures by antimonopoly regulators in China, including fines totaling about $200 million that were imposed on Aug. 20 on a dozen Japanese auto parts and bearings makers accused of conspiring to overcharge automakers’ assembly plants.
中国的反垄断监管机构近期采取了一系列严厉措施，例如8月20日，受到合谋向整车装配厂收取过高费用指控的十余家日本汽车零部件和轴承生产商接到共计约12亿元人民币的罚单。大众和克莱斯勒遭受的处罚是其中的最新案例。
But Chinese officials have taken pains in recent weeks to deny that they are aiming at multinationals. Prime Minister Li Keqiang said on Tuesday that antitrust cases against foreign companies represented only a tenth of all such investigations.
不过最近几周，中国官员在煞费苦心地否认故意针对跨国企业。国务院总理李克强周二表示，涉及外国企业的反垄断案件仅占所有此类调查的十分之一。
He said enforcement of the antitrust rules would, in fact, make “even more foreign investors, and more foreign products, willing and daring to enter China, because there is a fair competitive environment.”
他称，实际上，推进反垄断调查将“让更多的外资、外国产品愿意和敢于进入中国，因为有公平的竞争环境”。
Price regulators in Hubei province imposed a fine of $40.5 million on the Audi unit of Volkswagen, a month after the unit publicly acknowledged, while providing few details, that its dealership network there had violated antimonopoly laws. Hubei regulators said in a statement on Thursday that Audi had reached monopolistic agreements with 10 dealerships there to maintain high prices for cars and replacement parts.
湖北省的价格监管机构对大众旗下的奥迪开出了2.4858亿元人民币的罚单。一个月前，奥迪曾公开承认它在当地的经销网络违反了反垄断法规，但并未提供多少细节。周四，湖北的监管机构发表公告称，奥迪曾与当地10家经销商达成垄断协议，以维持整车及备用配件的高售价。
The investigators concluded that the agreements “interfered in the price-setting rights of downstream businesses, raising the sales price of whole vehicles and of parts, excluding and limiting the normal competitive order in the market for whole vehicles and parts, and hurting the interests of consumers.”
调查人员得出结论，这些协议“干预了下游经营者的定价权，抬高了整车和备件的销售价格，排除、限制了整车和备件市场的正常竞争秩序，损害了消费者权益”。
Shanghai price regulators have leveled the accusation of fixing prices for new cars and replacement parts against Chrysler as well, in imposing a fine of $5.2 million against Chrysler’s operations there, the official Xinhua news agency said on Thursday. The regulators accused Chrysler of conspiring with dealers to keep prices high for its vehicles — mostly Jeeps — and punishing dealers that did not cooperate by allocating few of the hottest-selling models to them.
此外，官方通讯社新华社周四报道，上海物价监管机构指控克莱斯勒对新车及备用配件实施价格垄断，并对当地的克莱斯勒公司处以3168.2万元的罚款。监管机构称，克莱斯勒与经销商达成协议，使整车——其中大多为吉普(Jeeps)——售价维持在较高水平，并通过冻结某些热销车型的供货分配来惩罚那些不予合作的经销商。
Audi issued a statement late Thursday in which it confirmed “the penalty and violations as they are mentioned on the website of the Hubei Price Bureau.”
周四晚间，奥迪发布声明表示，确有“湖北物价局网站上提到的罚款和违规”一事。
Audi also said that its joint venture with China FAW, the 50-50 partner in its Chinese operations, was “optimizing the management processes in the sales and dealership structure” and would “attach great importance that all applicable antitrust and competition laws are adhered to.”
奥迪还称，它与中国第一汽车集团公司共同组建的合资企业正在“完善销售和经销商网络中的管理流程”，并将“着重强调所有适用的反垄断和竞争法规均能得到遵守”。
Chrysler said in a brief statement that it “respects and accepts this final ruling by the Shanghai Price Bureau” and that it was committed to remaining highly competitive in the Chinese market.
克莱斯勒则在一份简短声明中称，公司“尊重和接受上海物价局的最终裁决”，并决心保持在中国市场的强大竞争力。
In China, as in the United States, dealerships are generally owned by independent businesses, and not by the automakers themselves.
与美国一样，在中国，经销商通常由独立企业经营，并不归于汽车厂商旗下。
On the same day the Chrysler and Audi fines were announced, government officials in Beijing argued at a news conference that their use of the antitrust rules was impartial and fair, and not directed unjustly at foreign companies.
在克莱斯勒和奥迪遭受罚款的消息公布的同一天，北京的政府官员在新闻发布会上辩称，他们对反垄断法规的执行不偏不倚、公正无私，并没有刻意将矛头对准外国企业。
“Our enforcement of the Antimonopoly Law has proceeded strictly according to legally stipulated procedures,” said Xu Kunlin, the director general of the price supervision bureau of the National Development and Reform Commission. “It’s fair and transparent, and is not targeted at any market entity, and not at foreign investment or foreign businesses.”
“中国的反垄断执法均严格依据法定程序，”国家发改委价格监督检查与反垄断局局长许昆林说。“完全公正透明，没有针对任何市场主体，更没有针对外资或境外企业。”
“There is no problem of so-called selective enforcement of the law,” he added.
他还说，“不存在所谓的选择性执法问题。”
China is not the only Asian country this summer that has examined automakers’ compliance with antitrust regulations, particularly over replacement parts. India assessed fines totaling $420 million on Aug. 25 to 14 automakers after accusing them of manipulating the market for replacement parts. India alleged that they had forced consumers to purchase high-priced parts from the automakers’ factories instead of generic parts by using measures like not selling diagnostic tools in independent garages.
中国并非今夏进行汽车厂商反垄断合规调查的唯一一个亚洲国家，尤其是在备用零部件方面。8月25日，印度指控14家汽车生产商操纵备件市场，并向其开出了总计达4.2亿美元的罚单。印度称，这些汽车生产商采用不在独立汽修厂出售诊断工具等方式，强迫消费者购买它们的高价原厂配件，放弃通用配件。
In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission in the 1960s and ‘70s investigated whether automakers there were unlawfully preventing consumers from buying generic parts. Automakers agreed then to a series of measures to allow generic parts to compete.
上世纪六七十年代，美国联邦贸易委员会(Federal Trade Commission)曾就在美汽车厂商是否非法阻止消费者购买通用配件进行调查。后来，各大车企接受了一系列允许通用配件参与竞争的措施。
The big change in the aftermarket auto parts industry in recent years has been the rapid rise of hundreds of Chinese manufacturers offering extremely inexpensive parts with varying levels of quality. New entrants in the replacement parts market have undercut the automakers by wide margins on price, severely eroding profits in an area that had been a nearly guaranteed moneymaker for automakers.
近年来，汽车售后市场零部件行业出现了一大变化：成百上千家中国厂商迅速崛起，以极其低廉的价格供应质量水平参差不齐的零部件。新近进入备件市场的厂家在价格上远低于这些整车生产商，严重蚕食了它们在这一领域的利润。在此之前，对整车企业而言，这一块不啻于稳赚不赔的摇钱树。
More recently, global automakers have begun collaborating with insurers and higher-quality producers of generic parts to set minimum quality and safety standards, in the hope of beating back competition from low-priced manufacturers.
最近，全球汽车生产企业已开始同保险公司及质量较好的通用配件生产商合作，制定最低质量和安全标准，希望借此击退来自廉价生产商的竞争。
“They simply can’t compete with cheap, poorly made, unsafe parts in the market — the sellers will always undercut them in price,” said Jack Gillis, who is the executive director of the Certified Automotive Parts Association, a private American group that sets standards and certifies exterior auto parts manufactured as crash replacements by independent companies.
“它们根本没法和市场上廉价、粗制滥造、不安全的零部件竞争——那些卖家在价格上永远会比它们便宜，”合格汽车零件协会(Certified Automotive Parts Association)执行总监杰克·吉利斯(Jack Gillis)说。作为美国的一家私人组织，该协会制定标准，并为独立企业生产的用于碰撞维修的汽车外部零件提供认证。
“On the other hand, if the competitor is forced to build the part with the same materials and construction as they do, they have a fighting chance to compete,” added Mr. Gillis, who is also the public affairs director at the Consumer Federation of America.
“另一方面，如果竞争对手被迫采用同样的原材料和工艺来生产零部件，它们就还有一丝与之一争高下的机会，”同时担任美国消费者联合会(Consumer Federation of America)公共事务主管的吉利斯接着说。
In China, domestic automakers are being pummeled by international competition, and the government has been searching for ways to help a homegrown industry that even several years ago held the promise of becoming a big exporter. Chinese private and state-owned automakers have long competed to offer the cheapest, most basic cars, and have lost market share as Chinese families have become more prosperous and more willing to spend the extra money to buy foreign models.
在中国，本土汽车厂商正在遭受国际竞争的挤压，而政府一直在想办法帮助本国汽车业的发展。就在几年前，中国汽车业还有望成为大型出口行业。长期以来，中国的私营和国有车企一直竞相供应最廉价、最基本的车型。然而，随着中国家庭变得更富裕也更愿意多花钱购买外国车，它们的市场份额不断遭到蚕食。
Big cities like Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou have also severely curtailed the issuance of new license plates, prompting many consumers to buy the most expensive car they can afford when they can obtain a license plate at all.
此外，北京、上海和广州等大城市严重缩减了新车牌的发放量，此举促使许多消费者一旦能获得牌照就购买他们可以承受的最贵的汽车。
One of China’s biggest domestic automakers, Geely Automobile Holdings, is an example of the deep trouble that the domestic industry now suffers. Owned by Li Shufu, who also purchased Volvo from Ford Motor in 2010, Geely announced on Aug. 20 that its sales had fallen 32 percent in the first half of this year from the same period a year ago.
中国最大的本土车企之一吉利汽车控股有限公司，便是国内汽车行业目前深陷困境的一个写照。8月20日，吉利公布的财报显示，今年上半年，公司销售额同比下滑32%。就在2010年，吉利的老板李书福还从福特汽车(Ford Motor)手中收购了沃尔沃(Volvo)。