NAIROBI, Kenya — In the vaulted dining room of the Keekorok Lodge, guests gathered Monday night for a feast overlooking one of the most spectacular vistas in Africa: the game-studded Masai Mara National Reserve.
肯尼亚内罗毕——周一晚上，在奇科洛旅馆(Keekorok Lodge)的拱形屋顶餐厅里，客人们一边享受美食，一边俯瞰非洲最壮观的景点之一：散布着野生动物的马赛马拉国家保护区(Masai Mara National Reserve)。
Suddenly an argument broke out at one of the tables, apparently over who was going to sit where. The authorities said an enraged Chinese safari guide whipped out a pocketknife and sank it into the chest of a Chinese tourist, killing her.
突然，一张桌子旁边发生争吵，似乎是因座位问题而起。当局称，一名愤怒的中国游猎导游抽出一把小折刀，刺进一名中国女游客的胸膛，导致对方死亡。
On Wednesday, Kenyan police officials said they were holding the safari guide, whom they identified as Li Changquing, 47, a Chinese citizen who speaks little English but decent Swahili, on suspicion of murder.
周三，肯尼亚警方表示他们以涉嫌谋杀为由扣押了那名游猎导游。他们说涉事导游是47岁的中国公民李昌勤（音），并表示他几乎不会说英语，但斯瓦西里语说得很好。
“I won’t say we are surprised — we are shocked,” said Abdi Jillo Galgalo, a Kenyan police commander. “This is a place where you go to relax with the family and leave the stress behind. We’ve never heard of anyone even slapping someone out here.”
“我们不是感到意外——我们是震惊，”肯尼亚警察指挥官阿卜迪·希略·加尔加洛(Abdi Jillo Galgalo)说。“这是一个和家人一起放松，将压力抛诸脑后的地方。我们甚至从没听说过有人在那里打架。”
The Masai Mara reserve is one of Africa’s brightest jewels. It is an undulating sheet of wavy grass and thorn trees covering hundreds of square miles, home to lions, leopards, cheetahs, rhinos, zebras, elephants, gazelles, vultures, crocodiles and hippos.
马赛马拉保护区是非洲最明亮的宝石之一，占地数百平方英里，地势连绵起伏，覆盖着丰茂的绿草和荆棘，是狮子、非洲豹、猎豹、犀牛、斑马、大象、瞪羚、兀鹫、鳄鱼和河马的家园。
At this time of year, it also hosts thousands of tourists. They flock in from all corners of the world to witness the “Great Migration,” when an estimated 1.5 million wildebeests and zebras trudge across the Masai Mara in seemingly endless herds looking for fresh grass to eat, while being stalked by lions and other predators.
在一年中的这个时候，保护区还会迎来成千上万名游客。为了一睹“大迁徙”的景象，他们从世界各个角落纷沓而至。在大迁徙期间，估计会有150万头牛羚和斑马为了吃到鲜草而步履艰难地穿过马赛马拉。它们的队伍看上去无穷无尽。在这期间，狮子和其他捕食者会偷偷接近它们。
Mr. Galgalo said that he had spoken to the assailant.
加尔加洛称自己和凶手交谈过。
“He looks like somebody who has a lot of anger,” Mr. Galgalo said, adding that the assailant was “strong and stout” and did not show much emotion.
“他看上去非常愤怒，”加尔加洛说。他还表示凶手看上去“壮实且强硬”，未表现出太多情绪。
The Kenyan authorities said that Mr. Li also attacked the victim’s husband, who remains hospitalized with stab wounds to his stomach. They said that members of the Keekorok Lodge staff rushed to stop Mr. Li before he could kill him.
肯尼亚当局表示，李昌勤还袭击了受害者的丈夫，后者腹部受了刀伤，仍在医院接受治疗。他们表示，奇科洛旅馆的工作人员急忙跑上前去，防止李昌勤自杀。
The Daily Nation, a Kenyan newspaper, reported that Mr. Li had a favorite table at the lodge and that the argument had started after he asked the couple to sit at a different table and they refused.
肯尼亚《民族日报》(Daily Nation)报道称，李昌勤在旅馆有一张最喜欢坐的桌子，在他要求那对夫妇坐另一张桌子遭拒后，双方发生争吵。
Mr. Galgalo said that when he asked Mr. Li why he had attacked the couple, the assailant replied in Swahili, “They insulted me.”
加尔加洛说，当他问李昌勤为什么袭击那对夫妇时，凶手用斯瓦西里语回答说，“他们侮辱我。”
Mr. Li, who the Kenyan authorities said was a professional safari guide who had been in the country for several years, is being held in a jail in Narok, a town near the Masai Mara. The reserve is about a six-hour drive west of Nairobi, the capital.
肯尼亚当局称，李昌勤是一名职业游猎导游，已在该国居住多年。目前，他被关押在马赛马拉附近的纳罗克镇的监狱里。马赛马拉在首都内罗毕以西大约六小时车程的地方。