A state-owned company that raises bears to extract bile for use in traditional Chinese medicine says it will hand over 130 bears to an animal rights group, and the farm where they were raised will be turned into a rehab center. The move marks a major success in the campaign to end the practice of bear-bile farming, which animal rights campaigners call cruel and abusive.
一家养熊取熊胆汁用于传统中药制作的国有企业表示，它将把130多头熊交给一家动物权益组织，而他们的熊场也会被改造成黑熊救护中心。动物权益倡导人士称熊胆养殖无比残忍，是对动物的虐待。对于呼吁终止这种做法的倡导运动来说，此举无疑标志着一次巨大的成功。
The move came after a year of negotiation between Flower World, a state-owned horticulture and landscaping company in Nanning, in the southern region of Guangxi, and Animals Asia Foundation, a nonprofit organization based in Hong Kong.
在这一转变发生之前，中国南方广西壮族自治区南宁市一家国有园艺及生态观光企业花花大世界和香港的非营利组织亚洲动物基金(Animals Asia Foundation)进行了一年的协商。 “This negotiation is a result of years of growing awareness and increased opposition, with the bear farmer showing the moral integrity to do the right thing,” Jill Robinson, the founder and chief executive of Animals Asia, said when announcing the plan in Beijing on Tuesday.
亚洲动物基金的始创人和行政总裁谢罗便臣(Jill Robinson)周二在北京宣布这一计划时说，“熊场经营者展现出了做正确之事所需的道德操守，这一协商反映了多年来意识提升和反对力量加强的结果。”
The plan to convert the bear farm into a rescue center is set to cost Animals Asia $5 million. That includes transportation of 28 bears to Animals Asia’s facility in the southern city of Chengdu for medical treatment in early May, the renovation of the buildings on the farm for 102 bears and about three years of care for the animals.
亚洲动物基金将投入500万美元（约合3100万元人民币）将熊场改造成救护中心。这包括5月初将其中28头熊运去亚洲动物基金在成都的一处设施进行治疗，改造农场现有建筑来照看另外102头熊，以及今后大约三年的饲养费用。
“As we enter into this agreement with a state-invested business, we also welcome the opportunity to work with government,” said Toby Zhang, director of external affairs at Animals Asia China.
亚洲动物基金中国区对外事务总监张小海说，“随着我们与一家国资企业达成这项协议，我们也希望有机会与政府合作。”
Flower World began its bear farm in 2008, but began to reconsider the project after three years of financial losses, said the Flower World general manager, Yan Shaohong.
花花大世界总经理阎少宏说，该公司从2008年开始运营熊场，但经过三年的亏损后开始重新考虑这一项目。
The cost to build the farm was about 9 million renminbi, or $1.5 million, Mr. Yan said. After a Chinese traditional remedies manufacturer, Guizhentang Pharmaceutical, was heavily criticized for its bile business, Flower World started to look for a door out, he said.
阎少宏说，建熊场的费用大约为900万元人民币，相当于150万美元。他说，在中药制药企业福建归真堂药业股份有限公司因熊胆产品而饱受批评之后，花花大世界开始寻求退出熊胆产业的途径。
In 2011, the Fujian Province-based Guizhentang Pharmaceutical applied for listing on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, placing its bear-bile farming practices under public scrutiny. Images released by organizations including Animals Asia of caged bears, some with tubes stuck in their abdomen to extract bile, angered the public.
2011年，位于福建省的归真堂药业申请在深证证券交易所上市，将其熊胆养殖置于公众的目光之下。亚洲动物基金等组织公布了一些笼养熊的照片，其中一些熊的肚子上插着用来抽取胆汁的管子，这激起了公众的愤怒。
Guizhentang officials defended themselves, saying they had perfected the bear-milking technique so that no more permanent belly tubes were required and that the bears were in no pain.
归真堂的管理层为自己辩护，称他们已完善了抽取胆汁的技术，所以无需再在熊肚子上长期插管，而且对熊来说也是无痛的。
Trying to head off a public relations crisis for China’s bear-bile industry, the China Association of Traditional Chinese Medicine, an interest group of which Guizhentang is a member, came to the company’s defense. The testimony of the association’s director, Fang Shuting, at a 2012 news conference, that bile extraction was “easy and painless, like turning on tap water” only lowered public opinion of the practice.
为了帮助中国的熊胆行业度过这场公关危机，归真堂加入的行业组织中国中药协会出面为这家公司辩护。协会会长房书亭在2012年的一场新闻发布会上作证，说取胆汁的过程“就像开自来水管一样简单，自然、无痛”，这让公众对这个行业愈加不认可。
Mr. Fang accused Animals Asia of plotting with “foreign interests” to “undermine the traditional Chinese medicine” by starving the industry of its supply.
房书亭指责亚洲动物基金与“西方利益集团”合谋，“以限制熊胆粉入药、削弱中药竞争力”。
If bear farms are shut down, Mr. Fang’s association said in a statement in early 2012, “153 drugs with bear bile for their active ingredient will be gone, 183 pharmaceutical companies will lose a market worth more than 10 billion renminbi a year, and tens of thousands of jobs will be lost as well.”
房书亭的中药协会在2012年初的一份声明中说，如果熊场都关了，“153个含熊胆中成药将不存在，183家制药企业每年100多亿元的市场将拱手相让，数万工人将失业。”
Amid continuing criticism, Guizhentang dropped its plan for an initial public offering last summer.
随着批评声不断袭来，归真堂去年夏天放弃了IPO计划。
As a state-owned company, Flower World received the blessing of the municipal landscaping bureau of Nanning for its decision to quit the bear-farming business.
作为一家国有企业，花花大世界退出养熊业的决定得到了南宁市园林局的认可。
Under the terms of the deal, Animals Asia will retain about 15 Flower World employees who work on the farm. All the workers have been promised a raise and training sessions provided by Animals Asia at its Chengdu center, Mr. Yan said.
根据协议的约定，亚洲动物基金将保留约15名在熊场工作的花花大世界员工。阎少宏说，亚洲动物基金已承诺为所有这些员工加薪，并在其成都中心对他们进行培训。
The bears on the Flower World farm are sick from earlier extractions as well as confinement in small cages, poor diets and a lack of veterinary care, according to an Animals Asia statement. Health issues include blindness, dental problems and untreated wounds, the statement said.
亚洲动物基金的一份声明称，花花大世界熊场里的熊因为之前的胆汁抽取、小笼圈养、饮食不善，以及缺乏医疗照顾，均患有疾病。声明说，它们身上的健康问题包括失明、牙齿问题和未愈的伤口。
“While it seems painless, the bears must have inner damage and inflammation. Otherwise why do they require so many antibiotics?” Mr. Yan said.
阎少宏说，“虽然看上去无痛，但熊一定会有内伤和感染。不然的话，为什么要给它们吃那么多抗生素?”
Mr. Zhang called bear farming “a waning industry” that “is not hard to phase out,” and said his colleagues believe this new partnership points to a way out for those involved.
张小海称养熊为一个“衰落的产业”，“要终结它并不太难”，还说他的同事们都相信，这种新的合作关系正为从事该行业的人指明了一条退路。
Experts say China has about 10,000 captive bears that yield about 30 tons of powdered bile a year.
专家指出，中国有近万头人工饲养的熊，熊胆粉年产量在30吨左右。
With government support, “we can begin the blueprint of a plan that, for the first time ever, sees the potential of farms to freedom for thousands of bears here in China,” Ms. Robinson said.
谢罗便臣说，有了政府的支持，“我们可以开始一项规划蓝图，对中国数以千计的熊来说，这将是它们第一次有希望从圈养走向自由。”