WASHINGTON — China has become shrill in its criticism of the fiscal train wreck in the United States, arguing that the answer to a potential government default is to begin creating a “de-Americanized world.” Beijing’s alarm is understandable, given that it is the world’s largest investor in American public debt, with at least $1.3 trillion in holdings.
华盛顿—中国对美国财政问题的批评已变得尖锐，称应对潜在美国政府违约的办法是开始建设一个“去美国化的世界”。北京方面的警惕可以理解，因为中国持有至少1.3万亿美元（约合7.9万亿元人民币）的美国国债，是全世界最大的美国国债投资方。
But China does not have many options beyond wringing its hands. Despite its efforts to steer its economy away from exports and toward domestic demand, China generates billions of dollars of excess cash that it needs to park somewhere. And for all the chaos in Washington, Treasury bonds remain a safer investment than most of the alternatives.
但是，除了干着急之外，中国并没有太多其他选择。尽管中国努力减少经济对出口的依赖，努力转向内需，但中国仍有数以十亿美元计的现金盈余，必须找到地方投资。而且，尽管华盛顿一片混乱，美国国债却依然比其他大部分投资选择安全。
That dependence may help explain the stridency of a recent commentary published by the official Xinhua news agency. It called for the replacement of the dollar as the world’s reserve currency “so that the international community could permanently stay away from the spillover of the intensifying domestic political turmoil in the United States.”
或许，这种依赖关系有助于解释中国官方通讯社新华社近日一篇评论文章的刺耳腔调。文章呼吁取代美元世界储备货币的地位，“这样一来，国际社会就能永久摆脱美国不断加剧的国内政治动乱带来的影响”。
“As U.S. politicians of both political parties are still shuffling back and forth between the White House and the Capitol Hill without striking a viable deal to bring normality to the body politic they brag about,” the news agency said, “it is perhaps a good time for the befuddled world to start considering building a de-Americanized world.”
“美国两党政界人士依然在白宫和国会山(Capitol Hill)之间往返奔波，未能达成一项可行的协议，让自己吹嘘的政体回归正常，”新华社说，“这个时候，或许是这个困惑不已的世界开始考虑建设一个去美国化世界的好时机。”
Chinese officials made similar noises five years ago, when the United States was being buffeted by a banking crisis. In March 2008, the leader of China’s central bank, Zhou Xiaochuan, proposed creating a new “supersovereign currency” that would diminish the importance of any individual national currency, not least the dollar.
五年前，当美国遭受银行业危机的重创时，中国官员也发出了相似的声音。2008年3月，中国央行行长周小川提议创造一种新的“超主权货币”，减少包括美元在内的任意一国货币的重要性。
But economists who follow China’s monetary policy say that while Beijing has somewhat diversified its foreign exchange reserves, it continues to rely heavily on Treasury bills and other American government-backed debt.
但研究中国货币政策的经济学家表示，北京方面虽然在一定程度实现了外汇储备多样化，但却依然严重依赖短期国债和美国政府担保的其他债务。
Part of the problem is the lack of easy alternatives: euro-denominated debt has been hurt by the European Union’s crisis, except in Germany. Analysts estimate that 60 percent of China’s $3.66 trillion in reserves are still in dollar-denominated debt, though the precise numbers are a secret.
问题部分在于缺少其他简便的投资选择：以欧元计价的债务受到了欧盟危机的打击，只有德国幸免。分析人士估计，中国3.66万亿美元的外汇储备中，60%依然是以美元计价的债务，虽然准确的数字是个秘密。
In its commentary, Xinhua embellished its call for a new reserve currency with a scathing indictment of the United States’ broader role in the world, saying that the Obama administration claimed “the moral high ground” while covertly “torturing prisoners of war, slaying civilians in drone attacks and spying on world leaders.”
在前述评论文章中，新华社严厉谴责美国在世界上扮演的整体角色，称奥巴马政府一边占领“道德高地”，一边却偷偷“拷打战俘、在无人机袭击中屠杀平民、监视世界领导人”，以此支持寻找一种新的储备货币的呼吁。
Edwin M. Truman, an economist and former Treasury Department official, said: “This is political blather. It is a politically defensive response to the choices China has made.”
经济学家、财政部(Treasury Department)前官员埃德温·M·杜鲁门(Edwin M. Truman)说：“这是出于政治目的的胡说，是对中国业已做出的选择所作的政治辩护。”
That does not mean a brush with default will not have long-term damaging consequences for the United States. Even if China continues to buy Treasury bonds, economists said, it may opt for those with shorter maturities, which would drive up long-term interest rates in the United States, hurting home buyers and owners of small businesses.
这并不意味着有关违约的争吵不会为美国带来长期性的破坏性影响。经济学家表示，中国即使继续购买美国国债，可能也会选择那些期限较短的债券，这会抬高美国国内的长期利率，损害国内债券购买者和小企业主的利益。
The sour taste from the budget impasse will also motivate the Chinese to intensify their efforts to deepen their own debt markets. Already, China has negotiated swaps for its currency, the renminbi, with the European Central Bank and other institutions, a step toward making the currency convertible and, someday, a rival to the dollar and euro.
同时，预算僵局的负面影响也会促使中国加大力度，深度开发自己的债务市场。中国已经与欧洲央行(European Central Bank)和其他一些机构就人民币兑换事宜进行了谈判，目的是让人民币实现自由兑换，并在未来取得与美元和欧元抗衡的地位。
“This gives them a kick in the pants to do it,” said Kenneth S. Rogoff, professor of public policy and economics at Harvard and a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund.
哈佛大学(Harvard)公共政策和经济学教授肯尼斯·S·罗格夫(Kenneth S. Rogoff)说，“此次财政僵局大大地推了中国一把，迫使其采取了行动。”罗格夫曾是国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund，简称IMF)的首席经济学家。
Any decline in the status of the dollar will be gradual, said Mr. Rogoff, who pointed to the erosion of the British pound sterling over several decades as a precedent. But, he said, “Memories are long: you do this once, you do this twice, and people start to think.”
罗格夫说，美元的地位即便下降，过程也必然缓慢。他援引英镑作为先例，过去几十年里，英镑的地位一直在逐步削弱。不过，他说，“记忆是悠长的，你干了一次，接着又再干一次，人们就会开始产生想法。”
President Obama appeared to have those long-term effects in mind when he was asked last week what message he had for big bondholders like the Chinese and Japanese. After saying that he had assured world leaders that the United States would continue to pay its bills, he noted that the specter of default, and the fact that the United States had flirted with it once before, could sow lasting doubts overseas.
上周，在被问及他对中国和日本等大债主有什么话要说时，奥巴马总统的反应似乎表明，他也想到了这一类的长期影响。他先是表示，他已向各国领导人保证，美国会继续还债，之后又指出，违约的阴影，再加上美国对以前那一次违约轻描淡写的处理态度，可能会在海外引发经久不衰的怀疑。
“We saw what happened in 2011,” Mr. Obama said. “I think the assumption was that the Americans must have learned their lesson, that there would be budget conflicts, but nobody again would threaten the possibility that we would default. And when they hear members of the Senate and members of Congress saying maybe default wouldn’t be that bad, I’ll bet that makes them nervous. It makes me nervous.”
奥巴马说，“我们都看到了2011年的情况。我认为，大家的假设是，美国人一定已经吸取了教训，美国也许会出现预算冲突，但却没有人会再拿我们违约的可能性来进行威胁。参众两院的一些成员说，违约后果也许并没有那么严重，我敢打赌，这种说法让他们感到了不安。它也让我感到不安。”
For all the anxiety, though, the prevailing belief overseas is that the United States will avert a default. At last weekend’s meetings of the World Bank and I.M.F. in Washington, Mr. Rogoff said, none of the visiting finance ministers expressed genuine fear that Congress and the White House would not find a way out.
虽然倍感不安，各国依然普遍认为，美国将避免违约状况的发生。在世界银行(World Bank)和IMF上周末于华盛顿举行的会议上，罗格夫说，没有哪位与会的财政部长表示，他们真切地担忧美国国会和政府会找不到解决问题的出路。
The fiscal deadlock, he said, cast such a long shadow over the gathering that the ministers did not have to dwell on the financial and structural problems in their own economies.
他说，财政僵局给此次会议造成了十分巨大的影响，以至于与会的部长们不再需要思虑本国经济中的金融问题和结构性问题。
China is a case in point. While the Chinese government has taken steps to shift its economy from a dependence on exports toward one fueled by domestic demand, the progress has been fitful. At the behest of its exporters, it continues to artificially depress its exchange rate, which it does by using its export earnings to buy dollars and other foreign currencies.
中国就是一个恰当的例子。中国政府采取了一些步骤，打算把依赖于出口的经济转变为由内需驱动，尽管如此，这个进程一直时断时续。在出口商的恳求下，中国继续人为地压低汇率，手段是利用出口所得购买美元和其他外汇。
In the first quarter of this year, economists say, the Chinese government added more to its foreign exchange reserves than in all of 2012.
经济学家表示，中国政府今年第一季度的外汇储备增长比2012年的全年增长还要高。
On one level, China’s $3.66 trillion hoard is a symbol of its financial might. But on another, it has tied Beijing’s hands. China’s central bank, the People’s Bank of China, cannot dump its Treasury bonds without driving down their value and incurring a painful loss on paper.
从某个层面说，3.66万亿美元的外汇储备是中国财力的一个象征。然而，从另一个层面说，它缚住了中国政府的手。中国的央行中国人民银行无法抛售美国国债，否则就必然压低其价值、招致痛苦的账面损失。
“This is certainly a wake-up call for them that holding U.S. government securities is not risk-free,” said Nicholas R. Lardy, an expert on the Chinese economy at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “What they should be doing is quit adding to their foreign reserves.”
彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)的中国经济研究专家尼古拉斯·R·拉迪(Nicholas R. Lardy)说，“这绝对是对中国敲响的一记警钟，让他们知道，持有美国政府债券并不是没有风险。此时他们应该做的就是，停止增加他们的外汇储备。”