BEIJING — The Chinese government plans to conduct the country’s first comprehensive survey of rural children left behind by parents who have migrated to cities in search of work, the China Youth Daily has reported.
北京——据《中国青年报》报道，中国政府计划首次全面排查因父母进城找工作而被留在乡村的儿童。
The move comes after a series of reports on the plight of “left-behind” children, who are often put in the care of older relatives or are sometimes abandoned. Researchers say that many of these children have anxiety and depression, and that they exhibit high rates of juvenile delinquency and poor school performance.
在此之前，出现了一连串的报道，介绍“留守儿童”的困境。这些孩子通常由年迈的亲戚照看，有时会被抛弃。研究人员表示他们中很多人情绪焦虑、心情忧郁，并称他们表现出了较高的青少年犯罪率，学习成绩差。
However, even basic information about these children — such as exactly how many there are — is lacking.
然而，有关这些孩子的基本信息却很缺乏，比如究竟有多少留守儿童。
At a conference in Tianjin on Saturday, Song Yinghui, a law professor at Beijing Normal University, estimated that there were 100 million children from migrant families in China, including more than 60 million left in their rural hometowns and more than 36 million who moved to cities with their parents but may be separated. Ni Chunxia, deputy director of the Ministry of Civil Affairs’ Department of Social Affairs, told the conference that he could not confirm those numbers, but that they highlighted the need for precise data, China Youth Daily said.
上周六，北京师范大学法学院教授宋英辉在天津的一次会议上估计，中国出身流动家庭的儿童总数为1亿人，其中6000多万被留在农村老家，3600多万与父母一同进城，但却可能没与父母同住。《中国青年报》的文章称，中国民政部社会事务司副司长倪春霞在研讨会上表示，他无法证实这些数字，不过它们突显了掌握准确数据的必要性。
Mr. Ni said the Ministry of Civil Affairs would conduct the survey in conjunction with other government agencies, including the ministries of education and public security. It plans to compile data on the number of left-behind children, their geographical distribution, their family circumstances and their educational status.
倪春霞表示，民政部会与包括教育部和公安部在内的其他政府部门合作，进行排查。民政部计划搜集的数据包括留守儿童的人数、地理分布、家庭环境和受教育情况。
Stories of suicides by children in such circumstances surface periodically in the Chinese news media. In January 2014, a 9-year-old boy in Anhui Province hanged himself after learning that his mother would not be coming home for the Lunar New Year. In June 2015, four siblings, ages 5 to 13, whose parents had left them in Guizhou Province, killed themselves by swallowing pesticide.
留守儿童自杀的报道不时会出现在中国新闻媒体上。2014年1月，安徽省一名9岁男孩在得知母亲不回家过农历新年后上吊自杀。2015年6月，被父母留在贵州省的四兄妹服农药自杀，年纪最小的5岁，最大的13岁。
Such reports have prompted calls for more action to help these children, starting by identifying their numbers and needs.
这类报道激起了采取更多行动、保护留守儿童的呼声。确定留守儿童的人数和需求只是一个开始。
“We need this database, because until now we have just been working with general numbers,” Li Ying, a lawyer and child welfare advocate, said in a telephone interview.
“我们需要这样的数据库，因为到目前为止，我们只能靠笼统的数据开展工作，”律师、儿童福利倡议人士李莹（音）在接受电话采访时表示。
The need for more reliable statistics was also mentioned in a directive issued in February by the State Council, China’s cabinet, setting out goals for the care of left-behind children in rural areas under the established Department of Social Affairs.
中国国务院2月发布的一份工作指导文件，也提到了需要掌握更可靠的统计数据，并制定了在民政部设立的未成年人（留守儿童）保护处的领导下关爱保护农村留守儿童的目标。
The directive calls on local governments to ensure that no children are shut out of compulsory education because of poverty and to work with the police, medical institutions and social workers to guarantee their safety. Children under 16 must be under the direct care of at least one parent, or the parents may be prosecuted and their guardianship revoked.
这份文件呼吁地方政府确保不会有儿童因贫困而无法接受义务教育，并与警方、医疗机构与社会工作者合作，保障这些儿童的安全。不满16周岁的儿童须由父母中的至少一方直接照料，否则父母可能会被追究法律责任，失去监护人资格。
The directive also addresses mental health. “Township governments and education departments should support the strengthening of mental heath education in elementary and middle school, promote the health of students’ psychological and personal development, and diagnose and address mental issues early,” it says.
文件还提到了心理健康，称教育行政部门要“支持和指导中小学校加强心理健康教育，促进学生心理、人格积极健康发展，及早发现并纠正心理问题和不良行为。”