Housing prices in China’s major cities continue to soar, according to a report released by the National Bureau of Statistics on Monday. With the exception of Wenzhou, in the eastern province of Zhejiang, housing prices rose in 69 of the 70 major cities in the survey during the first 10 months of 2013. In 21 cities prices jumped by more than 10 percent, and in another 26 cities by 8 percent to 10 percent. Shanghai and Beijing topped the list, with increases of 21.4 percent and 21.2 percent, respectively.
本周一，中国统计局公布的一份报告显示，主要城市的房屋价格仍在继续飙升。2013年前10个月，除浙江温州外，在报告调查的70个主要城市中，有69个出现了房价上涨。其中21个城市上涨幅度超过10％，另外26个城市涨幅在8％到10％之间。北京和上海高居榜首，分别上涨了21.4％和21.2％。
The release of the figures comes just days after the country’s top leadership pledged at the Communist Party Central Committee’s Third Plenum to accelerate property tax legislation, a step that many analysts say could help cool the sizzling market. The relevant clause in the Third Plenum report — a mere 15 characters in Section 18 of the more than 21,000-character document — offers no details as to how or when such a tax would be implemented.
这些数字发布仅仅几天之前，中国最高领导层在中共中央十八届三中全会上承诺要加快房产税的立法，很多分析人士表示，此举可能有助于令火爆的房产市场降温。三中全会报告中的有关条文 ——仅在第18条中占了15个字，报告全文逾2.1万字—— 没有提到房产税如何或者何时实施的细节。
The government is concerned that rising property prices could render housing even more unaffordable for lower- and middle-income Chinese, and thus fuel social instability. But any specific plans to impose a broad property tax have sparked controversy. For one thing, an effective property tax would require individuals, including government officials, to provide a more accurate record of their real estate holdings, a move analysts say would be resisted because of the scale of illicit income and other corruption it would uncover.
政府担心房价上涨可能导致中低收入人群更难以购买住房，从而加剧社会的不稳定状况。但是，所有广泛征收房产税的具体计划都引发了争议。首当其冲的原因是，行之有效的房产税需要个人，包括政府官员在内，提供更加准确的房地产持有信息，分析人士说此举会遇到阻力，因为它会暴露一些人的非法收入状况和其他腐败行为。
“The moment the government starts collecting taxes, people will be able to see the properties that individuals own,” wrote Li Xiaoning, a real estate market analyst, in the Legal Daily newspaper. “This will unleash problems that will truly test the boldness and determination of the government’s fight against corruption.”
“一旦开征，个人在房屋方面的财产情况就会变得透明，其所引发的问题考量着政府在反腐工作上的决心和魄力。”《法制日报》房地产市场分析师李小宁写道。
Few issues are more explosive in China than abuses and excesses in the property market. With the domestic stock market stagnant, interest rates low and heavy restrictions on Chinese investing abroad, many higher-income Chinese have channeled their money into real estate, driving up prices and the hoarding of property while many lower-income Chinese cannot afford homes. In September, citizens cheered after a mid-level bureaucrat in Guangzhou nicknamed “Uncle House” for his large real estate holdings (22 properties, to be exact) was sentenced to 11 and a half years in jail for accepting bribes.
在中国，很少有什么事情比违规占用大量房屋更具轰动性。由于中国股市停滞不前，银行利率低，中国人在国外投资受到限制，很多收入较高的中国人把资金投入到房地产领域，囤积房产，从而炒高了房价，致使很多较低收入的中国人买不起房。今年九月，广州一位拥有大量房产（准确来说是22处房产）的、被称为“房叔”的中层干部因受贿罪被判处11年半有期徒刑，这让市民额手称庆。
At present, China taxes profits on property sales, but does not impose a regular tax on the assessed value of property, with the exception of pilot programs that started in 2011 in Shanghai and Chongqing.
目前，中国对房产销售的收益征税，但没有对房产的估值进行定期征税，除了2011年上海和重庆的试点方案之外。
One argument in favor of a comprehensive property tax is that it would increase the cost of holding unused real estate and discourage property speculation. Another is that it would reduce local governments’ dependence on land sales, which now make up the bulk of their revenues. A heavy reliance on land sales has spurred excessive development in some cities, and illegal government seizures of property in others.
支持全面征收房产税的一种观点是，它有利于增加持有未使用房地产的成本，遏抑房地产投机行为。另一种观点是，它会降低地方政府对土地销售的依赖，目前，这是它们大部分收入的来源。对土地销售收入的严重依赖，刺激了一些城市的过度开发现象，也加剧了非法占有个人房产的状况。
In an interview with the state-run Global Times newspaper, Fan Xiaochong, vice president of the Sunshine 100 Real Estate Group, supported this goal: “If the property tax gradually replaces land sales as a source of revenue, it will be a wise long-term strategy for local governments.”
在接受官方《环球时报》的采访时，阳光100置业集团副总裁范小冲谈到了这样的目标：“如果房产税逐渐取代土地销售，成为一种收入来源，这对地方政府来说不啻为一个明智的长期战略。“
Early this year, the central government asked mid- and large-sized cities to lay out “housing price control objectives.” In response, some cities raised minimum down payments, attempted to limit the number of homes an individual can purchase or introduced policies to curb lending. But the figures released this week suggest these measures have had little effect.
今年年初，中央政府要求大中型城市制定“住房价格控制目标”。对此，一些城市或提高了最低首付比例，或限制了个人可以购买的房屋套数，或出台了遏制放贷的政策。但本周公布的数字表明，这些措施收效甚微。
“There are many factors that determine housing prices, including not only supply and demand but also the policy environment,” Chen Zhi, the vice-secretary of the Beijing Real Estate Association, told Xinhua, the state-run news agency. “To set goals for the property market but not take corresponding actions is simply empty talk.”
“房价是由多种原因造成的，包括供给方面、需求方面、政策环境方面。”北京市房协副秘书长陈志告诉新华社记者。“仅设定一个房价目标，而没有相应的措施，那等于喊空话。”
In early November, the Shanghai government announced it was raising the minimum down payment for second homes to 70 percent from 60 percent. On Nov. 18, the Guangzhou government followed suit, requiring a 70 percent down payment on second homes and pledging to increase the supply of low- and middle-income housing for the city’s nearly 13 million residents. Guangzhou also decreed that residents without a local hukou, or residence permit, must show proof of tax or social security payments for the previous three years to be granted the right to purchase a home.
11月上旬，上海市政府宣布第二套住房贷款首付比例由60%提高到70%。11月18日，广州政府效仿这一做法，要求二套房最低首付70％，并承诺为全市近1300万居民提供更多的经济适用房。广州政府还规定，没有本地户口或居住证的居民，必须出示之前三年的纳税证明或社会保障金缴纳证明，才能在本地购买住房。
The government will have to be on guard against the unintended consequences of any changes in property law. In March, China introduced a nationwide 20 percent capital gains tax on home sales, up from 1 percent.
房产法律的变化可能带来意想不到的后果，政府必须对此有所提防。今年三月，中国在全国范围内推出了二手房交易按照交易差价20%征收个税的政策，之前为1%。
Married couples in Beijing were quick to find a loophole. The new regulation allows couples who jointly own two residential properties but then divorce to register each property under one person’s name. They can then, under certain conditions, sell those properties tax-free. And then, if they so desire, they can remarry.
北京的已婚夫妇迅速找到了其中漏洞。在这套新的规定下，共同拥有两套住房的夫妻如果离婚，可以一人名下登记一套房产。然后他们可以在某些条件下免税出售这些房产。之后，如果他们愿意的话，也可以复婚。
In the first nine months of this year, Beijing’s divorce rate increased by more than 40 percent.
在今年前九个月，北京的离婚率增加了40％以上。