The Armory Show anchors what has held on as a robust art week for New York, in spite of similar events organized in the city during the milder month of May. The art fair on Piers 92 and 94 on the West Side Highway opened to the public this morning, and while one might say its theme is the same as ever — to make as much money as possible in five days selling contemporary (and modern) art — each year is more distinctively characterized by a regionally driven focus as well, and 2014’s is China.
军械库展览为纽约带来了一个充满活力的艺术周，尽管在更温暖的5月，该市还将举办类似的活动。在西区高速公路92号和94号码头举办的艺术今天早上向公众开放，虽然有人可能会说它的主题和以前是一样的——在五天里通过销售当代（或现代）艺术品尽可能多地赚钱——但是每年它都有更加突出的特色，重点关注某个地区。2014年的焦点是中国。
The “Focus: China” section of the Armory Show is an encampment of 16 commercial galleries and four nonprofit spaces at Pier 94, clustered around a lounge dotted with blue exercise machines placed by the collective Polit-Sheer-Form-Office as a work commissioned by the fair called “Fitness For All!” The section is organized by Philip Tinari, an American curator who has been based in Beijing for the better part of a decade, where he is currently the director of the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art.
军械库展览的“聚焦：中国”(Focus: China)单元位于94号码头，包括16个营利性画廊和4个非营利性空间，它们挤在一个大厅里，大厅里点缀着蓝色健身器，它是本次展览的一个委托作品，来自艺术家集体“政纯办”（政治纯形式办公室，Polit-Sheer-Form-Office），名叫《全民健身》(Fitness For All!)。这个单元的组织者是美国策展人田霏宇(Philip Tinari)，过去十年的大部分时间他在北京工作，目前是尤伦斯当代艺术中心的馆长。
One of the most intriguing presentations is the Beijing gallery White Space‘s solo booth, featuring new work by He Xiangyu, an artist in his late 20s who first gained notoriety for boiling down, over the course of about a year, 127 tons of Coca-Cola into an apocalyptic sludge that he subsequently used to fill a pristine gallery in an environmental gesture reminiscent of the 1970s artist Walter De Maria’s “The New York Earth Room.” Here, he offers two new, albeit tidier, jokes about scale and material: a totemic egg carton made of solid gold, leaned against the wall and holding a single, real egg, and the title page of “The Emperor’s New Clothes,” printed in black ink on black paper, essentially invisible when observed in a passing glance. The opposite wall is hung with a suite of oddly intuitive, synesthetic tongue drawings: every day, the artist draws how his tongue feels. Recently, he began rendering it in wax as well; one of such self-portraits is displayed under glass in the front of the booth.
其中最有趣的一个展厅是北京空白空间画廊的单人展位，主要展出何翔宇的新作品。这位近30岁的艺术家首次获得恶名，是在差不多一年里把127吨可口可乐煮成一堆可怕的残渣，然后把这些残渣填到一个古朴的画廊里，这样的环境暗示让人想起20世纪70年代的艺术家沃尔特·德·马里亚(Walter De Maria)的《纽约土地室》(The New York Earth Room)。何翔宇在这里展出了两个新的关于规模和材料的玩笑，不过更干净一点。一个用纯金做成的图腾似的鸡蛋盒靠在墙上，上面放着一个真鸡蛋；《皇帝的新衣》(The Emperor’s New Clothes)的扉页用黑墨水印在黑纸上，如果你只是路过瞥一眼，根本注意不到那个书名。对面墙上挂着一套怪异的凭直觉和感觉用舌头画出来的画：每天，这位艺术家画下他舌头的感觉。最近，他开始用蜡作画，展位前面的玻璃下面展示着其中一幅自画像。
Another engaging presentation can be seen at the booth of Gallery Exit, from Hong Kong, where two Roombas, the robot vacuum cleaners that resemble overgrown smoke detectors, roam a space littered with spiky concrete balls: enlarged castings of dust particles. The installation, made by Nadim Abbas, is meant to underscore parallels between the development of militaristic technologies and their domestic extensions, bringing the war home in an absurdist, Jetsons-y dance.
另一个有趣的展示可以在香港的安全口画廊的展位上看到。两个很像超大烟雾报警器的Roomba牌智能吸尘器在一个四散着尖刺水泥球的展厅里四处漫游：这些水泥球是放大的粉尘铸件。这个装置作品是唐纳天制作的，意在强调军国主义技术的发展与其在家居方面的发展并驾齐驱，用荒诞主义的、摩登家庭式的舞蹈让人们深刻感受战争。