China moved on Thursday to restrict its banks from using Bitcoin as currency, citing concerns about money laundering and a threat to financial stability.
中国周四出台措施，禁止银行将比特币作为货币流通，称这是出于反洗钱和对金融稳定产生威胁的考虑。
The action comes as monetary authorities around the world have begun to confront the issue of Bitcoin, a virtual currency whose value has soared in recent months as interest in it has spread. Part of its rise has been driven by intense demand for the virtual currency in China.
这一措施出台之际正是在全世界的货币当局开始面对比特币的问题之时，最近几个月，随着人们对比特币兴趣的蔓延，这一虚拟货币的价值激增。中国对比特币的大量需求成为抬高这一虚拟货币币值的部分原因。
The notice curtailing financial institutions’ involvement with Bitcoin was issued by the People’s Bank of China and four other ministries and agencies, and the directive said the step was needed to “protect the status of the renminbi as the statutory currency, prevent risks of money laundering and protect financial stability.”
限制金融机构参与比特币交易的通知由中国人民银行及其他四部委联合发出，通知称，采取这一步骤是因为需要“保障人民币的法定货币地位，防范洗钱风险，维护金融稳定。”
The notice said that Bitcoin was “not a currency in the real meaning of the word” but was rather a “virtual commodity that does not share the same legal status of a currency. Nor can, or should, it be circulated or used in the marketplace as a currency.”
通知称，比特币“不是真正意义的货币”，而是一种“特定的虚拟商品，不具有与货币等同的法律地位，不能且不应作为货币在市场上流通使用。”
Last month, in a sign of Bitcoin’s growing acceptance, American regulatory officials told a Senate hearing that financial networks like Bitcoin offered tangible benefits for the financial system. But they warned of the potential for money laundering and other criminal activity associated with such networks.
上月，美国监管机构官员在一次参议院听证会上说，像比特币这样的金融网络为金融系统带来了切实的好处，这是比特币越来越被接受的一种迹象。但是，他们警告说，这种网络也具有相应的洗钱和其他犯罪行为的潜力。
The remarks by United States officials, along with wider acceptance of the virtual currency by merchants, had helped propel the value of the virtual currency beyond $1,100, leaving its total worldwide value at more than $11 billion. It dropped more than $100 on Thursday, according to the Mt.Gox exchange, which handles Bitcoin trading online, to $1,100 from $1,217.
美国官员的话以及越来越多的商家开始接受这一虚拟货币，将比特币的价值推高到1100美元（约合6700元人民币）以上，比特币在全世界的总价值超过110亿美元。根据比特币网上交易平台Mt. Gox的数据，比特币币值在周四降低了100多美元，从1217美元降至1100美元。
Bitcoin was established in 2009 by an anonymous programmer or collective known as Satoshi Nakamoto. Part of the value of the currency is attributable to its limited supply. A maximum of 21 million units can be created, leading investors to bid up the price as demand grows.
比特币是在2009年由一个化名中本聪(Satoshi Nakamoto)的匿名程序员或团体创立。比特币的部分价值来自于它的限量供应。能创造出的最多比特币数量为2100万个，这导致随着需求的增加，投资者不断抬高其价格。
But with the growing acceptance of the virtual currency has come increasing concerns about its potential use in illicit transactions. In October, the American authorities arrested Ross Ulbricht, the alleged founder of the online marketplace Silk Road, after claiming that the site was being used to buy and sell drugs, weapons and pornography. Bitcoin was the primary form of payment on Silk Road, where people could make purchases anonymously.
然而，随着这一虚拟货币越来越被人们所接受，也出现了越来越多关于它可能被用于非法交易的担心。10月份，美国当局逮捕了罗斯·乌布利希(Ross Ulbricht)，因为他涉嫌创立了被称为“丝路”(Silk Road)的网上交易市场，当局称该网站被用来买卖毒品、武器和色情商品。比特币是这一平台上最主要的支付方式，人们可以在该平台上进行匿名购买。
The Chinese move came after officials in Beijing had expressed some support for the legitimacy of Bitcoin. Yi Gang, the deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China and the director of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, said in November that although the virtual currency might not find favor with China’s central bank, people should be free to participate in the Bitcoin market.
中国出台这一措施之前，北京的官员曾对比特币的合法性表现出一些支持。中国人民银行副行长兼国家外汇管理局局长易纲在11月说，虽然比特币可能不会得到中国央行的青睐，但普通人有参与比特币市场的自由。
That sentiment was echoed in the announcement Thursday.
这种观点在周四的声明中得到呼应。
“Ordinary members of the public have the freedom to participate in Bitcoin transactions as a kind of commodity trading activity on the Internet, provided they assume the risks themselves,” the statement said.
通知称，“比特币交易作为一种互联网上的商品买卖行为，普通民众在自担风险的前提下拥有参与的自由。”
In China, Bitcoin was starting to gain favor even among merchants. In the Chaoyang district in Beijing, a restaurant started accepting Bitcoins for payment in defiance of earlier regulation stating that virtual currencies could not be used to purchase real-life goods or services.
在中国，即使在商家中，比特币也越来越受到青睐。北京朝阳区一家餐馆无视之前发布的不能使用比特币购买实物及服务的规定，开始接受使用比特币付账。
But in its statement Thursday, the Chinese central bank raised questions about whether Bitcoin could ever gain true legitimacy as legal tender: “In essence, Bitcoin is a kind of special virtual commodity, and does not have the same legal status as a currency.”
但是，中国人民银行在周四的声明中对比特币是否能够获得真正合法性、成为法定货币的问题提出质疑，通知称：“从性质上看，比特币应当是一种特定的虚拟商品，不具有与货币等同的法律地位。”
“Currently, the public lacks sufficient understanding of Bitcoin, and some individuals have been caught up by faddishness or a speculative mentality in holding, using and trading in Bitcoins,” the statement said.
央行对通知做解释称，“目前，社会公众对比特币还缺乏足够了解，一些个人出于跟风或者投机的心理持有、使用和交易比特币。”
The explanation said that Bitcoins possess “quite high speculative risks,” because of the relatively small market and 24-hour trading, with no curbs on market declines. It said: “The price can be easily controlled by speculators, creating severe turbulence and huge risks. Ordinary investors who blindly follow the crowd can easily suffer major losses.”
解释称，比特币具有“较高的投机风险”，因为比特币交易市场容量较小，交易24小时连续开放，没有涨跌幅限制。这一问答还称，“价格容易被投机分子控制，产生剧烈波动，风险极大。普通投资者盲目跟风容易遭受重大损失。”