The United States space agency published a map in September that showed how rates of premature deaths from air pollution vary around the world. It showed that northern China has one of the worst rates, attributed to the density of a deadly fine particulate matter, known as PM 2.5, that often results from coal burning. The map was based on data collected by a research team led by Jason West, an earth scientist at the University of North Carolina.
美国航天局去年9月发布的一份地图显示了世界各地因空气污染而导致的过早死亡率。地图显示中国北方的过早死亡率最高，是被称为PM2.5的致命细颗粒物的浓度高所致，PM2.5通常是烧煤产生的。这幅地图是用北卡罗莱纳大学(University of North Carolina)地球科学家杰森·韦斯特(Jason West)领导的一个研究小组收集的数据绘制的。
The map also showed that the rate in northern China — what appears to be about 1,000 or more deaths each year per 1,000 square kilometers, or 386 square miles — is matched by that of northern India, in a diagonal belt stretching from New Delhi southeast to Calcutta. Those acutely polluted areas are colored dark brown on the NASA map. (Europe was perhaps surprisingly colored a deep brown too, though the rate was not as bad as that of the two Asian nations.)
该地图显示，中国北部每1000平方公里范围内每年有1000或更多的人过早死亡，这与印度北部的一个从新德里东南到加尔各答的斜对角地带的过早死亡率相当。这些污染严重的地区在NASA的地图上用深棕色显示。（或许令人吃惊的是欧洲也是深棕色的，虽然欧洲的过早死亡率并不像印度和中国的那样糟糕。）
Various recent studies and data suggest that air quality in Delhi is worse than in Beijing, though India’s air pollution problems do not get nearly as much attention on the world stage as those of Beijing. One study shows that Indians have the world’s weakest lungs. The World Health Organization says India has the world’s highest death rate because of chronic respiratory diseases, and it has more deaths from asthma than any other nation.
最近的几项研究和数据指出，德里的空气质量比北京的更坏，但是印度的空气污染问题在国际上并没有受到像北京那样的关注。一项研究显示，印度人的肺是世界上最脆弱的。世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)称，印度因慢性呼吸道疾病导致的死亡率居世界之首，印度因哮喘而死亡的人数比世界其他国家都多。
Yet, Indians and foreigners living in Delhi do not express anxiety about the air the way that residents of Beijing and other Chinese cities do. Air purifiers are a rarity in homes there, and face masks are generally not seen on the streets. The Indian news media do not cover air pollution to nearly the same extent the Chinese media do. (Government censors in China had blocked widespread coverage of the problem for years, but they loosened the restrictions during an infamous surge in pollution across northern China in January 2013; now even official state-run Chinese news organizations report regularly on air pollution.)
然而，印度人和居住在德里的外国人对空气的担心并不如北京和中国其他城市的居民那样强烈。印度家庭中很少见到空气净化器，街头一般也看不到人们带面罩。印度新闻媒体对空气污染的报道远不如中国媒体的那样多。（中国政府的审查机构过去几年中曾大范围地封锁对空气污染的报道，但自从2013年1月份出现了一次引起很多人关注的严重污染之后，开始放松限制；现在就连中国国家新闻媒体也经常报道空气污染的问题。）
Ananth Krishnan, the China correspondent for The Hindu, has been mulling over this disparity in public dialogue on air quality. He posted tweets about it in December, during a bad pollution day in Delhi. One of his conclusions was that the United States Embassy in Beijing had helped raise awareness in China by posting on Twitter for the past several years the air quality readings from a rooftop monitoring device.
《印度教徒报》(The Hindu)驻中国记者阿南特·克里希南(Ananth Krishnan)一直在考虑中印两国公众舆论在空气质量问题上的差别。去年12月，在德里出现一次严重污染天气时，他在Twitter上发过有关的帖子。他的一个结论是，驻北京的美国大使馆过去几年中通过在Twitter上发布来自使馆屋顶的空气质量检测仪的读数，帮助中国人提高了对这一问题的意识。
The embassy “did play a role in PM 2.5 awareness; maybe right time to start @USAndIndia air monitor,” Mr. Krishnan wrote on Twitter.
.@bokaroseani @KaiserKuo Also, @USEmbassyBJ did play a role in PM 2.5 awareness; maybe right time to start @USAndIndia air monitor ;)
克里希南在Twitter上写道，美国大使馆“的确在提高人们对PM2.5的意识方面起了作用；也许是美国驻印度大使馆用@USAndIndia发布空气质量的时候了”。
— Ananth Krishnan (@ananthkrishnan) 18 Dec 13In part because of the public release of PM 2.5 readings by the United States Embassy, prominent Chinese commentators like the real estate tycoon Pan Shiyi began asking on microblogs why the Chinese government was not making available data that it had collected. This helped put the issue in the spotlight, and Chinese officials then agreed to release the data for many cities across the country.
部分由于美国使馆公布的PM2.5读数，中国一些著名评论人，比如房地产巨头潘石屹，开始在微博上提问题，为什么中国政府不公布其收集的数据，这有助于把该问题放到聚光灯下，中国官员随后同意公布多个城市的空气污染数据。
Mr. Krishnan said in an interview that Delhi had been making the same kind of data available to the public well before Chinese officials agreed to release their numbers, and that the Indian numbers proved without a doubt that the air quality in the Indian capital was poor. However, he said, there has never in India been populist demand for the government to change policy to improve the air, as there is now in China.
克里希南在一次采访中说，早在中国政府同意公布数据之前，德里方面就一直在公布类似的数据，印度的数据毫无疑问地表明印度首都的空气质量很糟糕。他说，但是印度从来没有出现中国现在这样的要求政府改变政策以改善空气质量的大众呼声。
“I think when you have the sense that they’re hiding something, it galvanizes public attention in a counterintuitive way,” said Mr. Krishnan, who has lived in Beijing since early 2010.
克里希南从2010年初以来一直住在北京，他说，“我觉得如果人们感到政府在隐瞒什么的话，反而会刺激公众的关注。”
“I don’t think the Indian media has given enough attention to this issue,” he added. “I remember an Indian environmental scholar visited Beijing a few months ago, and he was surprised that pollution was getting so much attention in the press here.”
他补充说，“我觉得印度媒体对这一问题还没有给予足够的关注。我记得一位印度环境学者几个月前访问北京时，对这里的媒体对污染如此关注感到吃惊。”
Coverage of air quality by the Indian news media “will have to change very soon,” Mr. Krishnan said.
克里希南说，印度新闻媒体对空气质量的报道“应该尽快改变”。
On Saturday, China Daily, an official English-language newspaper, reported that December was the worst month of 2013 for air quality in China. More than 80 percent of the 74 cities with official air monitoring devices failed to meet the national air quality standard for at least half of December, the report said, citing information from the Environmental Protection Ministry. That was twice as many cities as the number in November.
周六，中国官方英文报纸《中国日报》称，去年12月是2013年中国空气质量最糟糕的一个月。报道援引环境保护部的信息称，在全国装有官方空气检测设备的74个城市中，超过80%的城市在12月至少一半的时间里没有达到国家空气质量标准。未达标的城市数量是11月份的两倍。
In some of the smog attacks in December, visibility in cities was reduced to less than 10 meters, or 33 feet. Levels of five major pollutants increased that month. The monthly average of PM 2.5, the same particulate matter that scientists deem to be most harmful to human health, rose by almost 56 percent.
在去年12月的一些雾霾爆发的日子里，一些城市的能见度降到10米以内。5项主要污染物的数量在该月都有所上升。当月的PM2.5平均值几乎增长了56%，科学家认为PM2.5是对人类健康危害最大的颗粒物。
The report also said Beijing officials would issue “guidance” to tell the public whether the weather would be conducive to the setting-off of fireworks and firecrackers during the Lunar New Year holiday, which begins this week. Officials have said that smoke from the explosives contributes to air pollution. The four levels of guidance are: proper, not quite proper, not proper and extremely improper.
该报道还称，北京市官员将提供“烟花爆竹燃放气象指数”，告诉公众春节放假期间的天气状况是否允许燃放烟花爆竹，春节将于本周开始。官员曾说燃放烟花爆竹产生的烟雾导致空气污染。气象指数分为四级：适宜、不太适宜、不适宜、极不适宜。