JIANLI, China — Rescue divers from across China converged on a remote stretch of the Yangtze River on Tuesday in a race to save people possibly trapped inside the hull of a capsized cruise ship that had carried 458 passengers and crew.
湖北省监利县——来自中国各地的潜水救援人员周二汇集到长江的一个遥远江段，争取把可能困在翻沉游轮船体内的人就出来，游轮共载有458名乘客和船员。
As of Tuesday evening, nearly a full day after the four-story ship, the Oriental Star, capsized amid high winds and heavy rain, only 15 people were known to have survived the accident, including a 65-year-old woman dramatically pulled from an air pocket inside the ship just after midday Tuesday by divers. They briefly instructed her on how to use scuba equipment before guiding her into the muddy water and free of the overturned vessel, according to Chen Shoumin, the commander of the local military district, who spoke at a televised briefing.
截至周二晚，也就是这艘四层的“东方之星”游轮在大风和暴雨中沉没近一天后，据知只有15人生还，其中包括一名65岁的女性，周二下午，潜水员出人意料地把她从船身的一个空气夹层中拉了出来。他们先是简短地指示她如何使用潜水设备，然后引导她进入浑浊的江水，游离翻沉的船只，据地方军区司令员陈守民在一个通过电视播放的消息发布会上说。
Five bodies had been recovered, Xinhua, the state-run news agency, said. Many hundreds were most likely still inside the overturned vessel. Mr. Chen said that more people might still be alive in the ship and that additional rescuers were on their way to the scene, with plans calling for 183 divers to be there by Wednesday.
据官方新闻机构新华社报道，已找到五具尸体。数百人很可能仍在翻沉的船只中。陈守民说，船上可能还有更多活着的人，更多的救援人员也在赶往现场，并计划在周三派183名潜水员参加搜救工作。
In addition to the divers, other rescue workers were seen on state television tapping hammers on the hull, then listening for any response that could indicate there were more survivors.
除了潜水员，国家电视台播放的场面中，还可看到其他救援人员用铁锤敲击船体，然后倾听是否有反应，如果有，则表明可能还有更多的幸存者。
China’s prime minister, Li Keqiang, was at the scene in Hubei Province in central China. Xinhua and other state media outlets showed pictures of him giving instructions to the rescue crews.
中国总理李克强也已来到中部省份湖北省的搜救现场。新华社等官方媒体发布了显示他向救援人员做指示的图片。
“This shows that the party and the government, they genuinely care about the people,” Mr. Chen said.
陈守民说，“这体现了党和政府对人民真心的关爱。”
It appeared that the death toll could exceed that in East Asia’s last major such disaster, the sinking of the South Korean ferry Sewol ln April 2014, in which 304 people were killed, most of them high school students.
看来，这次的死亡人数可能会超过东亚最近一次重大沉船灾难的死亡人数，韩国渡轮“世越号”在2014年4月沉没时，导致304人死亡，其中大多数是高中学生。
The captain of the ship, who has not been identified in state media, was recovered from the river at about 11:50 p.m. Monday, more than two hours after the vessel capsized, the official Hubei Daily reported.
据官方报纸《湖北日报》报道，失事轮船的船长在周一夜间11点50分左右被从江中救起，那是船只沉没两个多小时之后，官方媒体没有给出船长的姓名。
Images released Tuesday afternoon by the Chinese state media showed boats swarming around the capsized vessel and rescue workers on the keel, which lay above the waterline in muddy water, perpendicular to the riverbank. Xinhua reported that rescuers had cut into the ship in an attempt to reach possible survivors. As night fell, the scene was illuminated by powerful lights.
中国国家媒体周二下午发布的图片显示，沉没船只的周围有许多小船，救援人员站在船的龙骨上，龙骨暴露在浑浊的江水之上，与江岸垂直。新华社报道说，救援人员为了找到可能的生还者，已把船体切开。随着夜幕的降临，现场打起了强力照明灯。
Alan Loynd, a longtime salvage expert based in Hong Kong, said that cutting a hole into the hull would require making sure the ship was in shallow water, to ensure it does not sink deeper. “The danger, of course, is if she’s floating upside down, you let the air out and she sinks,” he said. “You’d probably want to tow her into the shallows.”
住在香港的长期从事打捞的专家阿兰·洛因德(Alan Loynd)说，在船体上切洞时需要确保船是在浅水区，以保证它不会再度下沉。他说，“危险当然是如果船身翻着浮在水中时，你把空气放出来，它会下沉。你想必可能会把它拖到浅水区。”
When possible, air is pumped into an overturned vessel from below as the exposed hull is cut open, in an attempt to maintain air pockets in the hull and reduce the risk that the vessel will descend deeper even if it has been dragged into shallow water. “One problem with pumping air from underneath is affecting the vessel’s stability — it may roll further,” said Arthur Bowring, the managing director of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association.
如果有可能，在切开暴露在水面上的船体的同时，要把空气从下面泵入船体中，以图维持船体中的空气夹层，降低船身进一步下沉的风险，即使船已被拖到浅水区。“把空气泵入船体的一个问题是，那将影响船身的稳定性，这可能导致其进一步倾斜，”香港船东协会常务董事亚瑟·包荣(Arthur Bowring)说。
Cutting through the hull with an oxy-acetylene torch is also difficult because it involves not just slicing through thick steel plates. A cutting crew may need to slice through beams and other reinforcement connected to the inside of the steel plates, Mr. Loynd said.
用氧乙炔炬切割船体也很困难，因为那不仅涉及到将厚厚的钢板切开。洛因德说，切割员可能还需要将船梁以及连接在钢板内部的其它加固件切开。
Many of the passengers who boarded the vessel in Nanjing on Thursday for a trip to last 10 days or more were older people on group tours, although there were also children among the passengers, including one 3 years old. In Shanghai, many of the tourists had booked through the Xiehe Tourism Agency. On Tuesday afternoon, the agency’s offices there were closed, with a note taped to the door saying that the managers had gone to the site of the accident.
船上的乘客上周四在南京登船，其中大多数是参加旅游团的老年人，但也有一些儿童，包括一名3岁的孩子，航程原定10天或更长。上海的许多游客是通过协和旅行社预订的船票。周二下午，旅行社的办公室大门紧闭，门上贴的告示称，经理已前往事故现场。