HONG KONG — China’s exports of steel are soaring. But that is not a good sign for the economy.
香港——中国的钢材出口正急剧增长。然而对中国经济来说，这并不是一个积极的信号。
China has far more steel mills than it needs, a problem made worse by the country’s shrinking housing market, the most voracious consumer of the metal. Companies have scaled back or closed, as domestic steel prices have collapsed.
中国的炼钢厂数量远远超出自身需求，需要消耗大量钢材的中国房地产市场的萎缩令这一问题更加严重。随着国内钢材价格的暴跌，钢铁企业纷纷减产甚至倒闭。
With scant demand at home, the remaining mills have looked beyond their borders for business. China shipped a record 100 million metric tons of steel overseas in the 12 months ended in February, a 55 percent increase from the previous year.
由于国内需求不足，仍在经营的钢铁厂开始寻找海外的业务。在截至今年2月的过去12个月里，中国的钢铁出口达到了创纪录的1亿吨，同比增长了55%。
“I’m sure they are happy that at least somebody is buying it, but I don’t think that this is a strategy that Beijing wants to follow,” said Louis Kuijs, the chief economist for greater China at the Royal Bank of Scotland.
苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)大中华区首席经济师高路易(Louis Kuijs)说，“我相信他们很高兴至少有人在买钢材，但我不认为这是北京想要遵循的策略。”
The country’s traditional drivers of growth — manufacturing, real estate, local government infrastructure spending — are now among the biggest threats to China’s economy.
该国传统的增长引擎——制造业、房地产、地方政府的基建开支——目前对中国经济构成了最大的威胁。
A slowdown in those areas is expected, and even baked into the country’s economic outlook. But economists and analysts say the pullback could be more painful than China and its leaders are ready to handle.
人们预计这些领域将出现放缓，甚至将其纳入了对国家的经济展望中。但经济学家和分析师称，这种倒退的痛苦程度可能让中国及其领导人难以应对。
While Beijing has emphasized reorienting the economy toward consumer spending and market forces, its policy goals around jobs, growth and inflation are still greatly dependent on heavy industry and manufacturing. But the health of industries like steel, railways or housing construction is highly interconnected, and stress in one can put pressure on the others.
尽管北京已经强调要扭转经济方向，更多地依靠消费支出和市场力量来拉动增长，但其围绕就业、增长和通胀的政策目标，仍然严重依赖重工业和制造业。然而，钢铁、铁路或建筑业的健康状况是紧密相关的，任何一个行业承压，都将为其他行业造成压力。
The latest economic data offer little respite. Figures released Wednesday showed industrial production increasing at its slowest pace since 2008, rising 6.8 percent in the first two months of the year compared with a year ago. The slowdown is being compounded by falling commodity prices, with the producer price index declining a further 4.8 percent last month from a year earlier, its steepest fall since 2009.
最新的经济数据没有带来喘息的机会。周三公布的数据显示，工业生产的增速降到了2008年以来的最低水平，今年头两个月的同比增速仅为6.8%。不仅如此，大宗商品价格也不断下降，生产者价格指数上个月同比下降了4.8%，这是2009年以来的最大降幅。
“If you look at what companies are suffering the most in China, it is heavy industry,” Mr. Kuijs said.
“如果要问哪些产业在中国承受着最大的痛苦，答案应该是重工业，”高路易说。
So far, China’s leaders have remained publicly sanguine. In a speech last week, Premier Li Keqiang lowered the official growth target for this year to about 7 percent, which would be the country’s slowest expansion in a quarter-century. He drove home the importance of reducing China’s reliance on traditional industry and credit-fueled investment, replacing them with consumer demand as a pillar of the economy.
截至目前，中国领导人在公开场合一直保持着乐观。上周发表讲话时，李克强总理把今年的官方增长目标下调到了7%左右，这将是四分之一个世纪以来中国经济的最慢增速。他阐明了为何需要减少对传统工业和信贷驱动的投资的依赖，让消费者需求成为新的经济支柱。
“In expanding consumption, we need to ensure that every drop of spending builds to create a mighty river, so that the potential contained in an ocean of private consumers will be channeled into a powerful force driving economic growth,” Mr. Li said.
“扩大消费要汇小溪成大河，让亿万群众的消费潜力成为拉动经济增长的强劲动力，”李克强说。
Policy changes, meanwhile, illustrate a more urgent approach. In February the central bank cut interest rates for the second time in recent months, and also freed up money for loans by reducing the amount of cash that banks are required to keep on reserve.
与此同时，政府还采取了更为紧急的手段，对一些政策进行了调整。今年2月，央行宣布了最近几个月的第二次降息，并且通过降低存款准备金率为信贷释放了资金。
China’s leaders have also sounded a new note of caution about the impact on job creation.
关于就业可能受到的影响，中国领导人也流露出了新的谨慎情绪。
China added 13.2 million urban jobs last year, surpassing its target of 10 million. But the number of newly created positions fell in the first two months of this year compared with a year ago, Yin Weimin, the minister of human resources and social security, told reporters Tuesday in Beijing on the sidelines of the weeklong annual meeting of the party-appointed national legislature.
去年中国城镇新增就业岗位1320万个，超出了1000万的目标。但今年头两个月的新增就业岗位同比出现了下降，人力资源和社会保障部部长尹蔚民周二在北京的全国人大会议间隙说。
“Against a backdrop of slower economic growth, increasing downward pressure on the economy and of industrial restructuring, this year’s employment situation will be even more complex and grim,” Mr. Yin said, declining to provide specific figures on the number of jobs added so far this year.
“在经济增速放缓、经济下行压力持续加大、产业结构调整的大背景下，今年的就业形势将更加复杂，也将更为严峻，”尹蔚民说。他没有透露今年迄今新增就业岗位的具体数量。
The upheaval in China’s traditional economy is already being felt by workers like Chen Huabin.
陈华斌（音）这样的工人已经感受到了中国传统经济的动荡。
For years, Mr. Chen worked in export sales at a privately owned steel plant in Yangzhou, a city in eastern Jiangsu Province. Mr. Chen, 35, said the plant’s operations expanded dramatically from 2003 to 2009, growing from 150 employees to 1,800.
几年来，陈华斌一直在中国东部江苏省扬州市的一家私营钢铁厂做出口销售工作。现年35岁的陈华斌说，2003年到2009年，钢铁厂的业务大幅增长，员工从150人扩大到了1800人。
“At that time, the boss was really confident of the market and decided to invest all the profits to build more facilities,” Mr. Chen said in a recent interview. “It was also easy to get a loan. So we had been expanding blindly.”
“那时候，老板对市场真的很有信心，决定把利润全部用来修建更多的设施，”陈华斌前不久接受采访时说。“那时候贷款也容易。所以我们一直在盲目扩张。”
Then the steel industry got whipsawed by a wave of challenges, like the global financial crisis and anti-dumping tarrifs. Mr. Chen quit in late 2013. He switched sides, setting up his own business that helps companies from the Middle East and Southeast Asia buy steel from China.
后来，钢铁行业遭到全球金融危机和反倾销关税等一系列挑战的打击。陈华斌于2013年底辞职。他变换了阵营，成立了自己的企业，帮助中东和东南亚的公司从中国购买钢铁。
“Now it’s a buyer’s market, and I need to take advantage of this,” he said. “So I changed my role.”
“现在是买方市场，我需要利用这一点，”他说。“所以我改变了角色。”
The effects of such industrial changes ripple outward through the economy. For example, as housing prices fall, developers curtail projects under construction. Fewer new high-rises means factories churn out less steel, cement and glass — and what they do produce, they sell more cheaply. Activity then slows at the mines and quarries that provide the raw materials for these industrial goods, affecting mining companies from western China to Western Australia.
这种行业性变化的影响逐步蔓延到了整体经济。比如，随着房价下跌，开发商减少了在建项目。新建高层建筑的减少意味着钢材、水泥和玻璃的产量减少了，而且生产出来的成品售价也降低了。于是，为这些工业产品提供原料的矿井和采石场的活跃度降低，进而影响到了从中国西部到西澳大利亚的矿业公司。
“The near-term dilemma is that the slowdown in the traditional sectors is happening very quickly, in the real estate market or manufacturing sectors,” said Haibin Zhu, the chief China economist at J.P. Morgan in Hong Kong. “It will take time for new sectors to be developed and to eventually substitute the pillar industries.”
“近期的困境是，传统行业正在非常迅速地放缓，比如房地产市场和制造业，”摩根大通(JP Morgan)驻香港的首席中国经济学家朱海斌说。“新产业发展起来并最终取代支柱产业，还需要时间。”
Until that happens, the deceleration could worsen. For example, infrastructure investment in China is largely funded by local governments. But continuing fiscal reforms are likely to make it harder for city and provincial governments to borrow this year. At the same time, the weakening real estate market is likely to slow the pace of land sales to developers — another key source of cash for local governments. Mr. Zhu said he expected local government revenue from land sales to fall as much as 30 percent this year.
这种局面出现之前，减速问题可能会加剧。比如，中国的基建投资主要来自地方政府。但今年，持续的财政改革可能会让市级和省级政府更难贷到款。与此同时，日渐低迷的房地产市场可能会放慢向开发商出售土地的速度，这是地方政府的另一个关键资金来源。朱海斌表示，他预计地方政府今年卖地收入的降幅会高达30%。
Such reforms could undermine infrastructure construction, which has long been a priority of the leadership in Beijing. Under a national initiative called “one belt one road,” the government is spending billions on new rail, road and port infrastructure. The goal is to improve China’s ties to Western Europe and Southeast Asia.
这种改革可能会影响基础设施建设，长期以来，这一直是北京领导层的一项要务。根据一项名为“一带一路”的国家级战略，政府计划投入巨额资金，新建铁路、公路和港口基础设施。目标是加强中国同西欧及东南亚的联系。
Chinese leaders say that would provide a major boost to the economy by improving transportation links for both freight and passengers. The infrastructure upgrades alone will create hundreds of thousands of construction jobs.
中国领导人称，此举将改善货运和客运的交通运输，进而极大地提振经济。仅基础设施升级，就能创造数以十万计的建筑就业岗位。
But closer inspection of the economics behind this huge build-out raises questions. Consider rail, where Mr. Li, the premier, said last week that the government intends to spend 800 billion renminbi, or about $130 billion, this year on new lines.
但仔细审视这些宏大建设规划背后的经济数据，便会产生一些疑问。以铁路为例，李克强上周表示，政府打算今年投入8000亿元人民币，建设新的铁路线。
Around 60 percent of all rail freight traffic in China comes from transporting coal. The amount of rail freight fell about 11 percent in December and 9 percent in January compared with a year earlier — the steepest decline since the financial crisis. The slump is partly tied to fewer shipments of coking coal, which is mainly used in the steel industry.
中国总的铁路货运中，约有60%来自煤炭运输。去年12月和今年1月，铁路货运量同比分别减少了大约11%和9%。这是自金融危机以来的最大降幅。这在一定程度上与焦煤运输量减少有关，焦煤主要用于钢铁行业。
The slowdown comes at a vulnerable time for China’s rail industry, which is facing overcapacity and heavily indebted. China Railway Corporation, the main rail operator that was spun out of the Ministry of Railways in 2013, had total debt at the end of September of 3.5 trillion renminbi, or about $567 billion — up 26 percent from the end of 2012.
铁路货运量减少之际，中国铁路行业也正处在脆弱时期，债台高筑且运能过剩。2013年由铁道部改组而成的铁路运营企业中国铁路总公司，在去年9月底总负债3.5万亿元，较2012年底增加了26%。
China’s economy and financial system remain dominated by the state, and the government can always nurture short-term growth by flooding the economy with credit. In the meantime, the state news media is trying to stoke enthusiasm and confidence in the economy.
中国的经济和金融体系依然由国家主导，政府总是可以通过向经济注入大量信贷，来培育短期增长。与此同时，官方媒体正努力激发民众对经济的热情和信心。