China will send an unmanned rover to the moon in early December, a spokesman for the Commission of Science, Technology, and Industry for National Defense said on Tuesday. The lunar probe will be called the Yutu, or Jade Rabbit, a name that comes from a Chinese myth about a white rabbit that lives on the moon and was selected in an online poll.
国防科学技术工业局的一名发言人于周二表示，中国将在12月初向月球发射无人月球车。此次发射的月球车被命名为“玉兔”，这个名字源自一则讲述月中白兔的中国古典神话，通过网络投票中选。
The rover will be carried on the Chang’e-3 craft, which will attempt a soft landing on the moon. The rover, which weighs 140 kilograms, or just over 300 pounds, will spend three months exploring the moon’s surface.
搭载月球车的是嫦娥3号探测器，它将尝试在月球软着陆。重140公斤（300磅多一点）的月球车将在月球表面进行为期三个月的探测。
An image of a prototype on the website of the Chinese space program showed a box-shaped, gold-colored vehicle with two broad solar panels and six wheels. The mission will examine the geology of the moon and collect soil samples including materials that could be commercially exploited, the space program said.
中国太空计划网站上的样机图像显示了一个盒子状的金色车辆，它有两块宽大的太阳能板和六个轮子。据太空计划公布，此次任务的目的是探查月球的地质情况，收集土壤样本，包括收集有商业利用价值的物质。
Li Benzheng, deputy head of the lunar exploration program, described the Chang’e-3 mission as one of the most difficult to date for China’s space program, according to Xinhua, the state-run news agency.
据中国官方通讯社新华社报道，探月工程副总指挥李本正表示，嫦娥3号的任务是中国太空计划中迄今最艰难的任务之一。
It is China’s third lunar mission, and its first attempted soft landing on the moon. The first Chang’e mission, named for a Chinese goddess, orbited the moon in 2007. The second orbited the moon in 2010 and 2011, then continued on into deeper space.
这是中国的第三次探月任务，也是中国首次尝试在月球软着陆。2007年，嫦娥一号卫星环绕月球运行。嫦娥二号则在2010年和2011年绕月运行，随后进入更遥远的太空。该系列任务是以中国的一位女神命名的。
China’s space program sent its first astronaut into orbit in 2003 and has since carried out four additional manned missions. China has launched a space lab and plans to launch a space station before the end of the decade.
2003年，中国太空计划首次将宇航员送入绕行轨道。从那时开始，中国又执行了四次载人任务。中国已发射了一个太空实验室，还计划在这个十年结束前发射一个空间站。
The program has been an important project for the government as China attempts to match the space flight accomplishments of the United States and Russia and demonstrate its technological capabilities in comparison with regional rivals like India, which launched a Mars orbiter on Nov. 5.
中国试图取得可与美国和俄罗斯相媲美的太空飞行成就，并在与印度等地区性对手的攀比当中展示自己的技术能力，有鉴于此，这个项目对政府非常重要。11月5日，印度发射了一个火星探测器。
Mr. Li denied China was in a space race with India. “If India can achieve a Mars probe, that’s a great accomplishment,” he said, according to the China News Service.
李本正否认中国是在和印度进行太空竞赛。据中新社报道，李本正说，“如果印度这次能圆满实现环火星探测，确实是一个很大的成就。”
“But as for China’s space activities, we’ve never thought we were in competition with anyone,” he said.
“但中国航天的活动，从来没有想跟谁搞竞赛，”李本正说。