HONG KONG — China’s vast ranks of consumers are finding ways to spend more money online — and that’s good news for Alibaba.
香港——中国的消费者大军正在寻找可以在网上花更多的钱的方式，这对阿里巴巴来说是个好消息。
The Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce giant that a few years ago led the biggest share listing in the history of the American stock market, on Thursday posted strong profit growth and better-than-expected sales growth for the three months that ended in March. The surge came as Chinese government statistics showed an increase in online retail sales as well as stronger overall economic growth. Robust online activity has helped others as well, with Tencent Holdings, a major rival to Alibaba, reporting a strong rise in profit and JD.com, another rival, posting its first profit.
中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团几年前在美国上市时，曾创下股市历史上首次公开募股的最高纪录。公司本周四宣布，在今年的头三个月里，公司的利润增长强劲，销售增长好于预期。阿里的激增与中国政府统计数字所显示的网上零售额增长、整体经济增长略有加速同步。强劲的网上活动对其他公司也有帮助，阿里巴巴的主要竞争对手、腾讯控股公司公布了大幅上涨的利润，另一个竞争对手京东(JD.com)宣布首次实现盈利。
Alibaba’s results offer a positive sign for those tracking China’s efforts to transform its economy to rely less on government spending and more on American-style consumption. But they also show Alibaba is finding more ways to get the businesses that set up shop on its e-commerce platforms to give it more money.
阿里巴巴的业绩为跟踪中国经济转型的人提供了一个积极的信号，中国经济正在从依靠政府支出，转向像美国那样的更多依靠消费的模式。但这些业绩也显示，阿里巴巴正在找到更多的方法，让在其电子商务平台上开店的公司把更多的钱交给它。
But there are challenges. The results show Alibaba has a long way to go before it can diversify its business amid expectations that even China’s online sales boom has its limits. And Alibaba is increasingly dipping its toe into American politics at an uncertain time.
阿里也面临一些挑战。即使是中国的网络销售热潮也有限度，在这种预期下，阿里的业绩显示，要实现业务多元化，公司还有很长的路要走。在这个多变的时代，阿里巴巴也正在越来越多地涉足美国政治。
The Numbers
业绩数字
Alibaba said its fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose 85 percent to $1.4 billion, thanks to strong sales as well as selling some investments. Sales across its e-commerce businesses rose 47 percent.
阿里巴巴说，由于销售强劲、加上卖掉了一些投资持股，公司财政年第四季度的利润上涨了85%，达到14亿美元。其电子商务的业务销售额增长了47%。
While that’s good news for the company, full-year results showed a more complex picture. Alibaba’s revenue for the year grew more than twice as fast as its gross merchandise volume, a measure of sales volume, meaning much of the rise did not come from simply selling more stuff. Alibaba also is finding ways to squeeze more money out of vendors big and small, either by offering new services or charging more for existing ones.
虽然这对公司来说是好消息，但其全年业绩显示的情况却更为复杂。阿里巴巴本财政年的收入增长，比其商品交易总量的增长高出两倍多，这意味着，阿里收入增长中的很大部分并不是来自销售了更多的东西。阿里巴巴正在寻找更多的方法，或通过提供新服务、或提高现有服务的收费，从大大小小的销售商身上挤出更多的钱。
Cloudy Outlook
前景不清
Because even China can’t grow forever, Alibaba is hoping to find new sources of revenue. One of the most promising, according to analysts, has been to introduce its own business providing back-end computing to businesses — much like Amazon Web Services. While growth in the business remains strong, it is from a small base, and some analysts have signaled concern about increasing competition. In the quarter, Alibaba’s cloud revenue more than doubled, to $314 million.
因为即使是中国，增长也不是永远的，所以阿里巴巴希望能找到新的收入来源。分析师认为，最有希望的是为公司的业务开创新的领域，比如像亚马逊网络服务(Amazon Web Services)那样，为企业提供后端计算服务。虽然这些业务的增长依然强劲，但它们的起点颇低，一些分析人士也对日益激烈的竞争表示担忧。本季度，阿里巴巴的云计算收入翻了一番，达到3.14亿美元。
It has also expanded into online entertainment and film, hoping to make use of its advertising data and customers to become a cultural force. The company’s main online video acquisition, Youku Tudou, has fallen behind rivals in users and time spent per user. While in the long term it could pay off, in the shorter term heavy investment in content could cut into Alibaba’s margins.
阿里也在向网络娱乐和电影行业扩展，希望能利用其广告数据和客户群成为一支文化力量。公司在网络视频方面的主要采购优酷土豆，在用户数量、以及每个用户在平台上花的时间上，均已落在对手后面。虽然从长远来看，优酷土豆仍可给阿里带来回报，但短期来说，阿里巴巴在视频内容上的大量投入可能会削弱公司的利润。
Over all, the businesses outside Alibaba’s core commerce business were unprofitable in the quarter.
总而言之，阿里巴巴核心业务之外的业务本季度尚未盈利。
Alibaba Abroad
阿里巴巴在海外
Alibaba has said this year will be the year it pushes in earnest outside China’s borders. While the company’s core business is still in China, some signs show that its efforts overseas are starting to pick up steam. In a recent note the boutique investment bank China Renaissance pointed out that Lazada, a Southeast Asian e-commerce company that Alibaba invested in last year, now leads in market share in the six major countries in the region. Alibaba’s primary branded overseas e-commerce site, AliExpress, has also been picking up customers in Brazil, Russia and Eastern Europe, according to China Renaissance.
阿里巴巴表示，今年将是公司努力扩大中国境外业务的一年。虽然公司的核心业务仍在中国，但一些迹象表明，公司在海外的努力开始出现起色。精品投资银行华兴资本在最近的一份简报中指出，阿里巴巴去年投资的东南亚电子商务公司拉扎达，在其所在地区六个国家的市场中，目前拥有领先的市场份额。据华兴资本，阿里在海外的主要品牌电子商务平台阿里巴巴全球速卖通(AliExpress)，在巴西、俄罗斯和东欧地区的客户人数也在增长。
American Politics
美国政治
In the United States things are proving more difficult. Jack Ma, Alibaba’s founder, will host a conference in Detroit next month to help small businesses learn about the company. The event is a part of a follow-up to a pledge Mr. Ma made to create one million jobs in America. It isn’t clear whether that will soften political opposition that Alibaba has faced over counterfeit products on its platforms and a bid to take over MoneyGram, a money transfer company.
事实证明，美国的情况比较困难。阿里巴巴的创始人马云下月将在底特律主办一次会议，以帮助小公司了解阿里。会议是马云去年承诺为美国创造100万个工作机会的后续行动的一部分。目前尚不清楚这是否会减弱阿里巴巴在美国面临的政治反对。反对针对的是其平台上的假冒产品，以及阿里收购汇款公司MoneyGram的意向。