LONDON — A helicopter from a Chinese ice-breaking vessel began a rescue on Thursday of 52 passengers trapped aboard an icebound research ship in Antarctica, landing next to the ship on ice that had been trampled into a makeshift landing zone, according to a passenger and a leader of the scientists on board.
伦敦——中国破冰船上的一架直升飞机周四开始营救52名困在被冰封的南极考察船上的乘客，据被困船只上的一名乘客以及一名科学家负责人称，直升机降落在被困船只附近的冰上，那里的冰被踏平为一个临时的降落区。
The helicopter from a Chinese icebreaker, the Xue Long, or Snow Dragon, was to ferry the 52 passengers — scientists, tourists and several journalists — a dozen at a time, ending more than a week of drama in which ice held the MV Akademik Shokalskiy research ship firmly in place and prevented other vessels from approaching.
来自中国破冰船“雪龙”号上的这架直升飞机将以每批运出12人的方式，分批把被困乘客运出，他们中有科学家、游客和几位记者，从而结束这个历时一周多的戏剧性事件，一周多前，“绍卡利斯基院士”号(Akademik Shokalskiy)考察船被冰牢牢包围，其他船只无法靠近。
Chris Turney, a leader of the research expedition and a professor of climate change at the University of New South Wales in Australia, said in a message on Twitter that the “Chinese helicopter has arrived the Shokalskiy. It’s 100% we’re off! A huge thanks to all.”
科考队负责人、澳大利亚新南威尔士大学(University of New South Wales )研究气候变化的教授克里斯·特尼(Chris Turney)在Twitter上发帖称，“中国的直升机已经到达了‘绍卡利斯基院士’号。我们离开的可能性为100%！非常感谢所有人。”
Andrew Luck-Baker, a BBC reporter on board the vessel, said the rescue was underway and would likely take several hours. According to news reports, passengers would be ferried from the Xue Long to an Australian icebreaker, the Aurora Australis, some 2.5 miles further away while the 22 crew members stayed with the icebound Akademik Shokalskiy.
这艘船只上的BBC记者安德鲁·鲁克-贝克 (Andrew Luck-Baker)说，营救工作正在进行中，可能将会持续几个小时。新闻报道称，乘客将被从“雪龙”号运到停在约4公里以外的澳大利亚破冰船“南极光”(Aurora Australis)号上，而22名船员则会留守在被冰封的“绍卡利斯基院士”号上。
The passengers were expected to make landfall on the Australian island state of Tasmania in mid-January.
这些乘客有望于1月中旬在澳大利亚的岛州塔斯马尼亚登岸。
The 233-foot Russian research ship had been lodged in the ice since Dec. 24, when powerful winds encircled it with pack ice near Cape de la Motte, about 1,700 miles south of Hobart, Tasmania.
船身长度为233英尺（约合71米）的俄罗斯考察船自12月24日以来一直被困冰中，当时这艘船在塔斯马尼亚州霍巴特以南约2700公里的德拉莫特角附近，那里的强风带着大量浮冰将其包围。
The ship had set sail from Bluff, New Zealand, on Dec. 8, embarking on a planned monthlong voyage known as the Australasian Antarctic Expedition to study changes to the environment of East Antarctica since an Australian geologist, Douglas Mawson, surveyed the region a century ago.
这艘考察船于12月8日从新西兰的布拉夫出发，开始了其计划为期一个月的航程，这个名为“澳大利亚南极远征”(Australasian Antarctic Expedition)的计划将考察南极洲东部的环境变化，一个世纪以前，澳大利亚地质学家道格拉斯·莫森(Douglas Mawson)曾勘测过该地区。
Efforts to rescue the passengers began when the Aurora Australis was diverted from a resupply operation at an Australian Antarctic base. But the ship was unable to break through and risked getting stuck itself, according to Australian maritime authorities.
最早的营救乘客行动始于“南极光”号，该船被调离其在澳大利亚的南极基地执行再补给的任务。但据澳大利亚海事部门称，该船无法突破冰封，而且面临自己被困的危险。
The Xue Long failed in a similar attempt on Saturday but remained in the area. The Chinese ship is about two months into a five-month Antarctic expedition.
上周六，“雪龙”号的一次类似尝试也失败了，但其留在了附近海域。这艘中国船只正在从事一次为期5个月的南极考察活动，活动已进行了约2个月。
According to a posting on the expedition website by Dr. Turney on Dec. 31, the nearest open water from the ship was 16 nautical miles away across the ice. Neither the research ship nor its passengers and crew were in immediate danger, maritime authorities said.
据特尼12月31号在考察队网站上发的帖子，离被困船只最近的解冻海域在延伸16海里的冰层之外。海事部门称，考察船以及船上的乘客和船员都不面临直接的危险。