In the latest sign that China is loosening its tight grip over the economy, the government said on Saturday that the value of its currency would now be allowed to fluctuate more widely against the United States dollar.
最新迹象表明，中国正在放松对经济的严格控制：中国政府上周六表示，将扩大人民币兑美元汇率的浮动幅度。
China’s Central Bank said in a statement on its website that beginning on Monday, the daily trading band on the Chinese currency, the renminbi, would double to 2 percent on either side of a government-set parity rate, a move that could lead to wider daily price fluctuations. The announcement is the latest indication that Beijing is determined to make the renminbi an international currency and to give market forces a larger role in what is now the world’s second-largest economy after the United States’.
中国央行在其网站上的一份公告中称，从本周一开始，每日银行间即期外汇市场人民币兑美元交易价浮动幅度增加一倍，即可在政府设定的中间价上下2%的幅度内浮动，此举可能会导致更大的每日价格波动。这份公告是最新迹象，显示了北京让人民币成为国际货币，让市场力量发挥更大作用的决心；中国目前是仅次于美国的世界第二大经济体。
Although the government still maintains tight control over large aspects of the economy, including interest rates and the exchange rate, there appears to be a growing recognition among policy makers that the state’s heavy-handed role is distorting prices, intensifying inefficiencies and giving an unfair advantage to state-run enterprises, government banks and exporters.
虽然中国政府仍然严格控制着包括利率和汇率在内的诸多经济领域，但政策制定者似乎越来越多地认识到，政府紧抓不放的做法扭​​曲了价格，降低了效率，并且不公平地给国有企业、国有银行和出口商提供了优势。
Widening the daily trading band on the currency is likely to reduce the government’s control over the price of the renminbi and to signal to investors and businesses that even bolder moves are imminent.
扩大人民币的每日汇率波幅不仅可能会减少政府对人民币币值的控制，而且可能向投资者和企业发出一个信号：政府即将采取更加大胆的举措。
“This is a fairly significant indication of the government’s commitment to market-oriented reforms,” said Eswar S. Prasad, a professor at Cornell and a former head of the International Monetary Fund’s China division. “The government has been intervening in the currency markets for some time, but this means they will probably intervene less.”
“这明显显现了中国政府致力于以市场为导向的改革，”国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的前中国事务主管、康奈尔大学(Cornell University)教授埃斯瓦尔·S·普拉萨德(Eswar S. Prasad)说。“中国政府干预外汇市场已经有相当一段时间了，但此举意味着他们很可能会减少这种干预。”
Although China’s economy is growing at close to 7 percent, the rate of growth has fallen sharply over the last few years, and there are concerns that banks and local governments are masking huge liabilities. To lower the risk of a serious downturn, and to strengthen the country’s long-term prospects, Beijing is trying to push through market reforms without severely damaging those who have benefited most from state dominance of the economy.
尽管中国经济增长率接近7%，但在过去的几年里，其增速急剧下滑，业界担忧银行和地方政府掩盖了巨额债务。为了降低严重下滑的风险，实现中国的长期远景，北京正在试图推动市场改革，同时又不严重损害那些从政府主导的经济中获益最大者的利益。