HONG KONG — In Dongguan, a sprawling factory city, one real estate developer has cut prices by 15 percent, offered $1,600 worth of free appliances and even brought in a circus and a traveling zoo to move apartments.
香港——在拥有大量工厂的城市东莞，一个房地产开发商把房价降低了15％，还免费提供价值1600美元（约合9950元人民币）的家电，甚至请来一个马戏团和移动动物园来推销这些公寓。
In Hangzhou, the affluent hometown of the online retailer Alibaba, families that paid in advance for new apartments have occupied a stalled, half-finished complex.
在富裕的杭州，网络零售商阿里巴巴的故乡，已为新公寓交过预付款的业主占领了一座已经停工、只完成了一半的建筑物。
And in Changsha, a bustling river town where developers built a forest of fancy towers, a third of the modern office space is empty and families are mulling whether to buy in a weakening housing market or wait.
在繁华的江边城市长沙，开发商修建了一片华丽的高楼，三分之一的现代化办公室仍然空置，人们正在考虑是要在房价低迷之时出手购买，还是要继续等待。
Every urban real estate market is different in mainland China, driven by myriad municipal and provincial regulations and the varying strength of local economies. But the outcome is the same: The property market is under serious pressure.
在中国大陆，由于存在大量的市政和省级法规，以及地方经济实力的不均衡，每座城市的房产市场都有所不同。但结果都是一样：房地产市场正面临着严峻压力。
Prices for newly constructed housing fell 1 percent to 9 percent in recent months in all 70 mainland cities tracked by the national government, according to data released Thursday. Prices kept falling in November compared with October in all but three cities, where they were unchanged.
根据周四公布的数据，在中央政府跟踪调查的70个大陆城市中，新建房屋的价格出现了1%到9%的下跌。环比来看，11月，除三座城市的房价保持不变以外，其他城市的房价都出现下跌。
Weak real estate prices are a major challenge for Beijing as it tries to manage an economic slowdown. The Chinese economy, which a few years ago was increasing at an annual 10 percent to 12 percent, is now growing at about 7 percent — a rate that President Xi Jinping described last month as “a new normal of China’s economy.”
因为中国政府正试图控制经济放缓局面，较低的房价对政府形成了巨大挑战。几年前，中国经济在以每年10％至12％的速度增长，而如今其增长率降到了7%左右——中国国家主席习近平上个月称，这个速度是“中国经济的新常态”。
The government has already cut interest rates and authorized state-controlled banks to pump out more loans to prevent the economy from sagging even further, as the housing market has stalled.
政府已经采取了降息措施，并授权国有控股银行放出更多贷款，防止经济在房地产市场陷入停滞之时进一步下滑。
Real estate is vital. The International Monetary Fund estimated in October that construction and other real estate activities made up 12.8 percent of China’s economic activity, and 33 percent if related activities are included, from making steel for building beams to manufacturing sinks for bathrooms.
房地产非常重要。据国际货币基金组织(IMF)10月估计，建筑和其他房地产活动占中国经济活动的12.8%，如果把相关活动计算在内——从锻造房梁所使用的钢材到制造浴室使用的水槽——这个比例则会变为33%。
The fast-growing spending by Chinese households also depends in part on their confidence that home values are increasing. Nine-tenths of Chinese families own their homes, compared with about two-thirds in the United States.
某种程度上，中国家庭迅速增加的开支还取决于他们对房屋的增值信心。九成的中国家庭拥有自己的住房，而美国则大约为三分之二。
Yet real estate developers’ inventories of unsold apartments now equal 12 to 18 months’ worth of sales in China’s biggest cities, like Beijing and Shanghai, according to Haitong Securities, a big Chinese brokerage firm and investment bank. The industry considers six months’ worth of inventory to be healthy.
然而，大型中国经纪公司和投资银行海通证券表示，现在房地产开发商手里的新房存量相当于北京和上海等中国一线城市12至18个月的销售量。业内认为6个月的存量是属于健康的。
Developers have responded by delaying new projects. In November, housing starts were down 34 percent from a year earlier.
开发商通过推迟新工程来应对。11月，新屋开工率同比下降了34%。
For real estate, “the winter has not come yet, but it is coming,” said Hu Yifan, the chief economist for Haitong’s international division.
海通国际首席经济学家胡一帆说，对于房地产而言，“冬天还未到来，但它即将到来。”
While the property market is under pressure, a crisis does not appear imminent. State-owned banks are reluctant to foreclose on borrowers in arrears, and few buyers are forced to sell at a loss.
虽然楼市面临着压力，但是不会马上发生危机。国有银行不愿取消欠款人的抵押品赎回权，很少有买家被迫亏本出售。
“There are always going to be cycles — in this country, more than others, the government controls those cycles,” said Marty Burger, the chief executive of Silverstein Properties, which is planning a six-tower complex in Shenzhen, comprising apartments, offices, stores and hotel rooms. “Over time, it’s going to be a winner because of the growth of China.”
“这里总会存在一些起落——在中国则比其他国家更加普遍，而这些起落是由政府控制的，”兆华斯坦地产公司(Silverstein Properties)首席执行官马蒂·伯格(Marty Burger)说。该公司正计划在深圳建造一座由6栋高楼组成的建筑群，其中包括公寓、办公室、商店和酒店客房。“随着时间推移，它就会因为中国的发展而变成赢家。”
But the real estate slump complicates policy making for the government, which has to strike a very tricky balance to prevent social unrest. It wants housing to be more affordable. Apartments in big cities now cost as much as 20 years’ pay for recent college graduates. Even so, the government does not want to set off a slump in prices in a society where households have the vast bulk of their net worth in their homes.
不过，房产市场的暴跌让政府在制定政策方面面临着更多困难，它必须取得一个非常微妙的平衡，以防止社会动荡。它希望越来越多的人能够买得起房。现在，大城市的房价相当于应届大学毕业生20年的薪酬。即便如此，政府也不希望触发房价暴跌的局面，因为在这个社会，普通家庭的大部分资本净值都在房子上。
The overall priority for regulators shifted this fall from making housing more affordable to halting further declines in prices.
今年秋天，监管机构的优先政策，从调控房价转变成了阻止房价进一步下跌。
Dozens of cities, including Changsha, have dropped their bans on out-of-town buyers of residential property, which they had instituted over the last several years to discourage speculation. The Chinese central bank cut regulated interest rates by 0.4 percentage point for mortgages and other long-term loans on Nov. 21, and has authorized banks to offer discounts on these lower regulated rates as well. And banks have been told to act faster on mortgage applications.
包括长沙在内的数十座城市，已经解除了禁止外地买家购买房产的规定，这些限制性规定是过去几年为防止投机而制定的。中国央行在11月21日将抵押贷款及其他长期贷款的规定利率下调了0.4个百分点，并授权银行在较低规定利率的基础上提供折扣。银行被告知要更快地处理抵押贷款申请。
Regulators also reduced the required down payments. For buyers of second and third homes, they have dropped to 30 percent, from 60 percent to 70 percent. That is still steep by American standards, but manageable for many affluent urban families in China, which commonly save nearly half their incomes.
监管部门还降低了规定的首付比例。购买第二套房及第三套房的首付比例从60%至70%降至30%。按照美国标准来看，这个比例仍然过高，但对于很多富裕的中国城市家庭来说是可以接受的，这些家庭通常会将一半的收入存起来。
The regulatory changes seem to be cushioning the fall in prices, but not reversing it. The pace at which prices are falling from month to month slowed slightly in two-thirds of Chinese cities in November. Among them was Changsha.
调控举措的改变似乎缓解了价格的下跌，但没有扭转下跌趋势。11月，中国三分之二的城市的每月房价下跌速度稍有放缓。其中包括长沙。
A longtime center of chemical and rail manufacturing, Changsha seemed positioned to weather the gradual slowdown in economic growth. The opening of high-speed railroads over the past five years has made it an attractive, low-cost alternative for offices and factories.
作为长期以来的化学制品及铁轨制造中心，长沙似乎已经准备好应对经济增长的逐步放缓。长沙在过去五年中开通了多条高速铁路，其使之成为了一个颇具吸引力的廉价办公楼和工厂修建地。
But developers overdid it. By 2011, nearly 200 tower cranes could be counted just along the half-hour drive from downtown Changsha to the city’s high-speed rail station. Many commercial and residential towers built during the boom are still not full, although more are under construction.
但开发商过度地开发了项目。到2011年，在从长沙市区到该市高铁火车站的半小时车程中，就有将近200个塔吊。很多在建房热潮中建造起来的商业及住宅大楼仍有空置，但还有更多房屋正在建造中。
Prices have been steadily falling, down 7.4 percent since April. Well-located family apartments in new Changsha buildings sell for around 1 million renminbi, or about $160,000.
房价在逐步下跌，自4月以来已经下降了7.4%。在长沙的新大楼中，位置较好的公寓的售价大约为100万元。
Huang Yongjun, an administrator in his 30s with a wife and 9-year-old daughter, said that he had just signed an agreement to buy a 1,140-square-foot apartment because he was fed up with renting and had noticed that Changsha prices still lagged those in the country’s biggest metropolitan areas.
30多岁的管理人员黄永俊（音）已经结婚，有一个9岁的女儿，他表示自己刚刚签订合同，买下了一套1140平方英尺（约合106平方米）的房子，他已经厌倦租房，而他注意到长沙的房价仍低于一些大城市的房价。
“I am buying now because I have a genuine need,” he said. “It will be the first apartment that I have owned.”
“我现在买房是因为我真正需要，”他说。“这是我买的第一套房子。”
Wages, too, are playing into the market. Rising wages help more blue-collar workers afford monthly mortgage costs, although they frequently struggle to muster down payments. But increasing labor costs hurt developers’ profit margins and make it increasingly expensive to build more homes.
薪资水平也对房市产生了影响。工资不断上涨，使得越来越多的蓝领工人能够负担每月的房贷，但他们通常很难凑齐首付。而不断增加的劳工成本损害了开发商的利润率，使得建造房屋的成本升高。
Just a decade ago, China had a glut of young, eager workers. Construction sites commonly operated around the clock, with workers earning as little as $5 for a day’s or night’s work. But the government’s “one child” policy, together with a quintupling in university enrollments in recent years, has produced a dearth of blue-collar workers.
仅在十年前，中国还有大量热切的年轻工人。建筑工地通常都是全天24小时开工，工人们每天或每夜只能挣五美元。中国政府实施“计划生育”政策，而且近些年来大学招生人数增加了四倍，这些因素导致了蓝领工人的缺乏。
Zhang Ruling, a graying migrant worker who pushes wheelbarrows full of bricks at the construction site for the Xinyuan Splendid apartment complex in Changsha, said that he earned $46 for a nine-hour-long day shift. He turns down night shifts even though local employers offer an extra 29 percent in pay for working after dark.
头发灰白的农民工张如令（音）在长沙鑫苑名家小区建筑工地推车运板砖，他表示自己白天工作9个小时，可以赚46美元。尽管当地的雇主为夜班工作人员增加了29%的工资，但他不愿上夜班。
“It is not too tough to find work,” he said. “No one wants to do the night shift since it is more tiring.”
“现在找工作不太难，”他说。“没人想上夜班，因为夜班非常累。”
Nathan Lai, a spokesman for the Xinyuan Real Estate Company, based in Beijing, which is building the project, said that labor costs had risen nearly tenfold over the past decade. For the 2,140-apartment Xinyuan Splendid project, the land cost $122 million; labor, previously a small expense, cost $45 million; and other costs, like steel girders, added up to another $115 million.
该项目的开发商鑫苑置业有限公司总部位于北京，公司发言人内森·赖（音）表示，劳工成本在过去十年中增加了将近10倍。鑫苑名家小区共有2140套公寓，土地成本为1.22亿美元，劳工成本——之前算是数额较小的费用——达到4500万美元，钢梁等方面的支出达到1.15亿美元。