BEIJING — China’s Foreign Ministry said Monday that Chinese leaders, angered over a visit last week by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to a contentious war shrine in Tokyo, would not meet with Mr. Abe.
北京——中国外交部周一表示，中国领导人对日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)上周参拜靖国神社一事感到愤怒，不会与安倍晋三举行会晤。
A Foreign Ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, said at a regularly scheduled news conference in Beijing that Mr. Abe’s visit to the Yasukuni Shrine, which pays tribute to some war criminals among the dead, was tantamount to honoring “fascists” and “the Nazis of Asia.” Mr. Qin’s statements were the strongest public remarks made by China against Mr. Abe.
外交部发言人秦刚在北京的例行记者会上说，安倍晋三参拜供奉包括二战战犯等逝者的靖国神社，等同于参拜“法西斯”和“亚洲的‘纳粹’”。秦刚的发言是中国对安倍晋三最严厉的公开批评。
Mr. Abe has been asking for high-level talks with China to discuss points of tension in East Asia. In recent years, the China-Japan relationship has worsened because of disputes over territory in the East China Sea. Most recently, Japan and other countries expressed surprise and anger over China’s efforts to expand its flight identification zone in the region.
安倍一直要求要与中国展开高层对话，就东亚地区的紧张因素进行讨论。近年来，因为东海领土争端，中日关系逐渐恶化。最近，中国尝试扩大其东海防空识别区，日本和其他一些国家都对此表示了惊讶和愤怒。
Japan has also encountered friction with South Korea, which, like China, expressed anger at Mr. Abe’s visit to the shrine. The visit was the first by a sitting head of government in Japan since Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi went there in 2006. That visit also stirred rage in the region.
日本与韩国的关系也出现了摩擦。与中国一样，韩国也对安倍晋三参拜靖国神社一事表示了愤怒。自小泉纯一郎于2006年(Junichiro Koizumi)进行参拜之后，这是首次有在任首相前往参拜。小泉的那次参拜也在该地区引起了愤怒。
Mr. Qin said that the visit by Mr. Abe “betrayed” previous agreements and understandings that had been reached by China and Japan and damaged “the political foundation between the two countries.”
秦刚说，安倍晋三的参拜“背弃”中日两国此前达成的协议和共识，破坏了“中日关系的政治基础”。
“It is Abe himself who closed the door of conversation with Chinese leaders,” Mr. Qin added.
秦刚还表示，“安倍自己关闭了同中国领导人对话的大门。”
The Yasukuni Shrine, an institution of the Shinto religion, honors ordinary soldiers who died fighting in World War II but has long generated enmity among the Chinese because it has among its honorees what are called Class A war criminals. These former officials were convicted by the International Military Tribunal for the Far East after Japan’s defeat in the war, and the Class A designation means that they had taken part in top-level decisions on the war’s execution.
靖国神社是一座神道教神社，供奉着在二战中战死的普通日本士兵。但是，该神社同时供奉着一些甲级战犯，由此引来了中国人的长期敌视。日本战败后，远东国际军事法庭(International Military Tribunal for the Far East)裁定这些前任官员有罪。甲级战犯的罪名意味着他们曾参与开展战争的高层决策。
“Since Abe stepped into power, he has made many mistakes in his relations with China, especially in his visit to the shrine where many Class A war criminals are worshiped,” Mr. Qin said. “They are the historic sinners of the Far East Military Tribunal. Their hands are stained with the blood of the people of victimized nations. They are fascists. They are the Nazis of Asia.”
“安倍自上台以来，在中日关系上打错算盘，一错再错，特别是参拜供奉有二战甲级战犯的靖国神社，”秦刚说。“他们是远东军事法庭判决的历史罪人，他们手上沾满了受害国人民的鲜血，他们是法西斯，是亚洲的纳粹。”
Mr. Abe, in formal dress, visited the shrine on Thursday, with news helicopters flying overhead. The event was broadcast live on television, though TV cameras were not allowed into the shrine’s inner sanctum.
上周四，身着正装的安倍晋三参拜靖国神社，新闻直升机在神社上空盘旋。电视台对此次参拜活动进行了直播，但官方没有允许电视台的摄像机进入神社内堂拍摄。
Mr. Abe is known for holding conservative views on Japanese history. Though he did not visit the shrine during his first stint as prime minister, from 2006 to 2007, he has since expressed regret over that.
安倍晋三因对日本历史持保守观点而闻名。他在第一次担任首相期间——2006至2007年——没有参拜靖国神社，此后却一直对此表示遗憾。