DAVOS, Switzerland — Even with all the optimism about the global economy here last week at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, there was a remarkable economic and political risk that appeared to have been largely overlooked: The long-simmering battle between China and Japan may be close to boiling over. One top executive went so far as to describe the nations’ relationship as a “stealth war.”
瑞士达沃斯——上周，这里举行了年度世界经济论坛，尽管人们对全球经济仍然比较乐观，但却似乎在很大程度上忽视了巨大的经济和政治风险：中日两国长期胶着的争端或许即将沸腾。一位企业领导者甚至用了“秘密战争”一词来形容这两个国家的关系。
The implications for the global economy — and some of the largest multinational companies — are profound. China and Japan represent the second- and third-largest economies in the world, after the United States, and they are among each other’s largest trade partners. General Motors, Microsoft, Boeing, Nike, Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble, among others, have huge businesses in both countries.
这将对世界经济——以及一些规模庞大的跨国公司——造成深刻影响。中国和日本分别是世界第二和第三大经济体，仅次于美国；它们也是彼此最大的贸易伙伴之一。通用汽车(General Motors)、微软(Microsoft)、波音(Boeing)、耐克(Nike)、可口可乐(Coca-Cola)和宝洁(Procter & Gamble)等公司都在两国拥有大量业务。
“I probably spoke to no less than 40 U.S. C.E.O.’s here and I would say this issue came up in more than half of those conversations,” said Ian Bremmer, the political scientist who founded the Eurasia Group, the political risk consulting firm. “This week at Davos, for me, the big takeaway was that China-Japan was much more problematic than we thought. The possibility that you get anti-Japanese sentiment in a big way and it causes real disruption on trades and hurting both economies is real.”
“在这里，我可能与不少于40名美国企业掌门人谈过话，我想说，其中一半的谈话都提到了这个问题，”建立了政治风险咨询公司欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)的政治科学家伊恩·布雷默(Ian Bremmer)说。“于我而言，本周在达沃斯最大的发现就是，中日两国间的问题比我们想象的更加严重。真的有可能出现强烈的反日情绪，对贸易造成巨大破坏，伤害两个经济体。
If you need evidence of the significance of this geopolitical clash, look no further than the surprising comment made here by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, who said his country’s relationship with China was in a “similar situation” to the one between Germany and Britain before World War I.
如果你需要证据来证明这种地缘政治冲突的严重性，看看日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在这里发表的出人意料的谈话即可。安倍晋三表示，日本与中国的关系与一战前德国与英国的关系“颇为相似”。
Mr. Abe was trumped by Wu Xinbo, a Chinese university dean who is considered close to China’s leadership, when he described Mr. Abe as a “troublemaker” and, at one point, compared him, somewhat obliquely, to Kim Jong-un, the North Korean dictator.
某中国大学的研究中心主任吴心伯则更进一步，他说安倍晋三是“麻烦制造者”，还隐晦地把安倍晋三与朝鲜独裁者金正恩(Kim Jong-un)进行了比较。吴心伯据称与中国领导层的关系颇为密切。
“I have to say that the political trust between the two countries now is very low,” Mr. Wu said, suggesting that he expects “political relations between our two countries will stay very cool, even frozen, for the remaining years of the Abe administration in Japan.”
“我不得不说，目前两国的政治信任度非常低，”吴心伯说。他还说他认为“在安倍剩下的数年任期之内，两国的政治关系将会非常冷淡，甚至会降到冰点”。
Problems between China and Japan have long been festering, especially as Mr. Abe has sought to rewrite the country’s Constitution and build the country’s military, which has long been considered only defensive.
长期以来，中日两国间的关系都非常紧张。特别是，目前安倍还希望修改日本宪法，强化日本自己的军队。而日本军队一直都属于防御性质。
Tensions rose when China angered Japan last November when it claimed an air defense identification zone over a chain of islands in the East China Sea that the countries have disputed claims over. The conflict increased after Mr. Abe visited the Yasukuni Shrine, where Japanese war dead are commemorated, including several war criminals who were executed after Japan’s defeat in World War II. The trip offended many Chinese, and the Obama administration had warned Mr. Abe not to visit the shrine.
去年11月，中国宣布在东海争议岛屿的上空划设防空识别区，惹恼了日本，两国关系由此变得更加紧张。在安倍晋三参拜靖国神社之后，两国矛盾再次加剧。靖国神社是供奉日本战争亡灵之地。二战后日本战败，几名在战争结束后被处决的战犯也在其中。安倍晋三参拜靖国神社的行为让许多中国人十分气愤，奥巴马政府也曾警告安倍晋三不要对靖国神社进行参拜。
China-Japan political relations have been strained since the end of World War II. Previous visits by Japanese politicians have angered China and South Korea, which both suffered greatly under Japan’s empire-building efforts then. And the Japanese citizenry has often sought to distance itself from its imperialist past, preferring instead to highlight the nation’s economic progress and prowess.
自二战结束以来，中日两国的政治关系就一直颇为紧张。从前，日本政治人士参拜靖国神社的行为一直让中国和韩国深感愤怒，因为两国都曾在日本的帝国建设过程中深受折磨。日本国民通常也希望能与其帝国主义的过去划清界限，同时比较倾向于突出日本的经济进步和实力。
Yet now, the intensity of the feelings of mutual distrust is striking. According to Pew Research, just 1 in 20 Japanese “have a favorable attitude toward China” and “anti-Japan sentiment is quite strong in China, where 90 percent of the public has an unfavorable opinion of Japan.”
然而现在，两国之间存在强烈的不信任感。根据皮尤研究中心(Pew Research)提供的数据，只有5%的日本人“对中国持积极看法”，而“中国的反日情绪也相当强烈，90%的公众都对日本持消极态度”。
The latest tensions are having a direct economic impact; the Japanese, for example, are investing less in China.
最近的紧张感产生了直接的经济影响；例如，日本正在减少对华投资。
Mr. Bremmer, of the Eurasia Group, put it bluntly: “The Chinese have written off Shinzo Abe as someone they can potentially work with. They mistrust him completely. They believe he is belligerent toward them and believe an escalatory policy is the appropriate one to pursue.”
欧亚集团的布雷默坦率地表示：“中国已经排除了与安倍晋三合作的可能性。他们完全不信任他。他们认为他对他们不友善，而且认为让局势进一步升级的策略是恰当的。”
After Mr. Abe made his comment comparing his country’s relationship as being similar to Britain and Germany in 1914, when the two countries were major trading partners, China’s leaders made their own attacks. “Rather than using pre-World War I Anglo-German relations, why don’t you deeply examine your mistakes during the First Sino-Japanese War, the Japanese colonial rule of the Korean Peninsula and the fascist war that Japan launched on victim countries in World War II?” Qin Gang, a spokesman for China’s foreign ministry, asked of Mr. Abe.
在安倍晋三发表评论，称中日关系与1914年尚互为重要贸易伙伴的英德关系有些类似，中国领导人发出了自己的反击。中国外交部发言人秦刚要求安倍晋三：“与其拿一战前英德关系说事儿，不如深刻地检讨甲午战争，检讨日本对朝鲜半岛的殖民统治，检讨日本二战对受害国人民发动的法西斯战争。”
Mr. Abe, in fairness, did try to play down any hints that the simmering tensions would lead to a prolonged military conflict.
公平地说，安倍晋三的确试图在淡化这种暗示——即紧张局势会发展成一场旷日持久的军事冲突。
“Japan has sworn an oath to never again wage a war,” Mr. Abe said in his speech. “We have never stopped, and will continue to be wishing for the world to be at peace.”
“日本发誓永远不再发动战争，”安倍晋三在讲话中说，“我们从未停止、且将继续祝愿世界和平。”
But that’s not what many of the executives and regulators I spoke to after his presentation took away from his comments. “I’m going to be asking our teams in China and Japan to do a full analysis of the risks to our business when I get home,” one Fortune 500 C.E.O. told me, seeming anxious. “Maybe this should have been on my radar before, but it is now.”
安倍晋三的演讲结束后，在和我有交流的企业高管和监管者中，许多人并不相信安倍晋三的上述评论。“回去后，我会让我们在中国和日本的团队全面分析我们的业务面临的风险，”一家《财富》500强企业的首席执行官告诉我。“或许我之前就应该注意到这一点，不过现在已经注意到了。”
So what’s the biggest risk?
那么，最大的风险是什么呢？
“The possibility of a mistake where someone gets killed is going up,” Mr. Bremmer said. “They are scrambling their fighters in the East China Sea every day.”
“出现有人丧命这种过失的可能性在增加，”布雷默说。“他们每天都有战斗机在东海上空飞。”
And the misunderstandings could deepen. “More problematically, the aftermath of a mistake will have both countries actively mistrusting the intentions of each other without a mechanism to really talk to each other and without the Americans acting as an interlocutor,” Mr. Bremmer said.
而且，误解可能会进一步加深。“更成问题的是，在没有一个双方能真正交流的机制，而且美国也不再参与对话的情况下，过失带来的影响会让两个国家在主观上不信任彼此的意图，”布雷默说。
Mr. Wu said that the possibility of war was overstating the case: “China doesn’t want to fight a war.”
吴心伯表示，爆发战争的可能性夸大其词了：“中国不想打仗。”
One of the greatest challenges multinational companies doing business in the region may face is that the United States government may not be positioned to step into the middle of the debate. Many of the American officials who were closest to Japan have left the Obama administration. Hillary Rodham Clinton, Kurt Campbell and Tom Donilon — all known for being the architects of President Obama’s “pivot” toward Asia — are no longer there, nor is Timothy F. Geithner, who worked in Japan in the 1990s and had close relationships with many senior leaders.
在该地区做生意的跨国公司面临的最为严峻的挑战之一是，美国政府或许不会介入争论。与日本关系密切的许多美国官员都离开了奥巴马政府。希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)、库尔特·坎贝尔(Kurt Campbell)和汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)均因设计了奥巴马总统的“转向”亚洲战略而广为人知，但现在，他们都不在其位了。曾于上世纪90年代在日本履职并与许多高级领导人关系密切的蒂莫西·F·盖特纳(Timothy F. Geithner)也已离职。
“Kerry doesn’t really do Asia,” Mr. Bremmer said about Secretary of State John Kerry, who would most likely take umbrage at that assertion. “Susan Rice? No,” he said of the United States ambassador to the United Nations.
“克里并不真的关注亚洲，”布雷默说起极有可能对该说法感到不快的国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)时说，“苏珊·赖斯(Susan Rice)呢？也不会。”他所说的苏珊·赖斯是美国驻联合国大使。
“Who is paying attention to foreign policy in Obama-land or in Congress? Nobody.” Whether that is true or not, it is clear that China, long seen as a fast-growing economy, and Japan, which has experienced a rebound in the last year, now should be added to the list of political and economic risks that businesses should consider in 2014.
“在奥巴马政府和国会，谁关注外交政策？没人。”不管是真是假，企业在考虑2014年的政治和经济风险时，长期被视作增长迅速的经济体的中国，以及在去年经历了复苏的日本，显然应该被考虑进去。