The last time President Obama went to China, five years ago, he was a political supernova from a nation with a depleted, debt-ridden economy. When he returns to Beijing on Monday, he will be a political casualty from a country with a resurgent economy.
上一次奥巴马总统出访中国是五年前；当时，他是一颗政治领域的超新星，来自一个增长乏力、负债累累的国家。周一，当他再次出现在北京时，他将变成一名政治落难者，来自一个经济正在复苏的国家。
White House officials hope the later distinction will outweigh the earlier one when Mr. Obama meets with President Xi Jinping before traveling on to Myanmar and Australia. But they are likely to be disappointed: China, analysts say, is likely to dwell more on Mr. Obama’s electoral reversals than on the comparatively robust American recovery.
白宫官员希望，当奥巴马在前往缅甸和澳大利亚之前会见中国国家主席习近平时，经济上的好转将盖过政治上的落差。不过，他们大概会感到失望：分析人士称，中国可能会更多地关注奥巴马在选举中蒙受的挫折，而不是美国相对强劲的经济复苏。
“Politics trumps economics, at the end of the day,” said Nicholas R. Lardy, an expert on the Chinese economy at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)的中国经济研究专家尼古拉斯·R·拉迪(Nicholas R. Lardy)说，“说到底，政治优先于经济。”
That is not to understate the shift in economic fortunes between China and the United States since 2009. At that time, in the depths of the financial crisis, visiting Americans were lectured by Chinese officials about the need for the United States to put its fiscal house in order. Now, Mr. Obama has cut the deficit in half while the Chinese economy is the one slowing sharply, weighed down by a sea of bad loans.
这并非要弱化2009年以来中国和美国在经济走势上所发生的转变。当时，在金融危机最为严重的时候，中国官员曾教训来访的美国人，美国需要打理好自己的财政问题。如今，奥巴马已把财政赤字减少了一半，中国的经济增长则在大幅放缓，饱受巨额坏账的困扰。
But Mr. Lardy said the Chinese economy was not as troubled as some in Washington believe. The government, he said, was orchestrating a slowdown in growth to squeeze out excesses in housing and other markets — a difficult process that he said Beijing was managing fairly well.
然而拉迪表示，中国的经济状况并不像华盛顿一些人想象的那样糟糕。他说，增速放缓是出于中国政府的刻意安排，其目的是挤出房地产等市场的泡沫——这是一个复杂的过程，而他认为北京掌控得相当好。
Mr. Obama, meanwhile, has been preoccupied by other crises, from the Ebola outbreak to the threat posed by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. The Republican takeover of the Senate has added to doubts that the president will have either the time or the political influence to push forward his much-promoted strategic pivot to Asia.
与此同时，奥巴马却需要把注意力放到其他危机上，从埃博拉疫情的爆发，到伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)的威胁，不一而足。共和党将执掌参议院的事实使人更加怀疑，奥巴马是否拥有足够的时间或政治影响力来推行他高调宣扬的“转向亚洲”战略。
China’s state media has been unforgiving about Mr. Obama’s political travails. “Obama always utters ‘Yes, we can,’ which led to the high expectations people had for him,” said The Global Times, an English-language website affiliated with People’s Daily, in a postelection editorial. “But he has done an insipid job, offering nearly nothing to his supporters. U.S. society has grown tired of his banality.”
中国官方媒体评论起奥巴马的政治困境时毫不留情。“奥巴马总说‘是的，我们能’，让民众对他产生很高的期望，”中期选举后，《人民日报》的《环球时报》在其英文网站发表的社论中说。“不过，他表现平平，几乎没有为他的支持者提供任何东西。美国社会已经厌倦了他的平庸。”
Mr. Obama’s best bet to counter doubts about his standing, analysts said, will be to move quickly on projects that reinforce America’s presence in the region, like a proposed trade deal, and in areas where China and the United States can work together, like climate change.
分析人士称，为了消除对他的地位的怀疑，奥巴马最好的做法就是迅速采取行动，推进能加强美国地区存在感的项目，例如提议中的贸易协定，以及气候变化等中美两国能展开合作的领域。
“It’s a matter of, in part, communicating through your body language, through your ambitions, and through what you commit to,” said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a China adviser in the Clinton administration who is now at the Brookings Institution. “That’s an important part of what he’ll do, but I certainly think that the election does not help him in that.”
“一定程度而言，就是需要通过你的肢体语言、你的抱负，以及你的表态来进行交流，”曾任克林顿政府中国问题顾问、现供职于布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的李侃如(Kenneth G. Lieberthal)说。“在他即将采取的行动中，这是很重要的部分，但我确信，中期选举在这方面没有给他带来帮助。”
One of the areas where a Republican-controlled Congress might actually help rather than hinder Mr. Obama is in passing the Trans-Pacific Partnership, an ambitious trade pact involving 12 countries that is a centerpiece of the president’s pivot to Asia.
共和党控制的国会可能为奥巴马带来助益而非阻碍的领域之一，是跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）的达成。这是一项雄心勃勃的贸易协定，涉及12个国家，是奥巴马转向亚洲策略的核心。
Negotiations for a deal have bogged down in the last year, in part because Japan and other Asian countries are reluctant to make big concessions without knowing whether Mr. Obama will have “fast-track” authority to pass a treaty in Congress. The White House held off asking for such authority before the midterm elections, at the request of Democrats.
去年，有关协定的谈判陷入停滞，一个原因就是，由于不知道奥巴马是否拥有在国会经由“绿色通道”批准协议的授权，包括日本在内的一些亚洲国家不愿做出较大的让步。应民主党人的要求，在中期选举之前，白宫推迟了对这一授权的索求。
Now, though, a free-trade-friendly Congress is more likely to grant Mr. Obama fast-track authority. That could give the administration a window to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership in 2015 before the next presidential election. While in Beijing, Mr. Obama is expected to meet with leaders of the countries involved in the negotiation. They will be there for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, an annual meeting of Pacific Rim countries being held in China.
不过现在，一个支持自由贸易的国会，更有可能赋予奥巴马这种权力。这兴许会让奥巴马政府有机会下一届大选之前的2015年完成TPP谈判。奥巴马预计将在北京会见与TPP谈判有关的各国领导人。他们来到北京是为了参加亚太经合组织(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation)峰会。这是太平洋周边国家的年度会议，今年在中国举行。
The United States trade representative, Michael B. Froman, has played down expectations for any breakthrough in Beijing. And China, which has not been invited to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership, will be watching the American efforts with some skepticism.
美国贸易代表迈克尔·B·弗罗曼(Michael B. Froman)一直在淡化外界对在北京取得突破的期待。而不在TPP之列的中国，将带着质疑关注美国的一举一动。
Still, Mr. Xi and Mr. Obama could find common ground on climate change. As the world’s two largest carbon emitters, China and the United States are trying to develop a common position on new targets for emissions reductions in advance of climate talks in Paris next year. The thinking is that they could then pull the rest of the world into a treaty.
尽管如此，习近平和奥巴马仍然可以在气候变化问题上找到共识。作为世界上最大的两个碳排放经济体，中美两国正努力在明年的巴黎气候谈判之前，在新的减排目标上达成共同立场。这么做背后的想法是，届时两国可以拉拢其他国家达成一项协议。
While the Chinese may view Mr. Obama as a diminished figure, analysts say they are well aware that his successor — whether Hillary Rodham Clinton or a Republican — could end up taking a tougher line toward China. That means they will keep looking for ways to work with him.
分析人士称，尽管中国或许已经把奥巴马看成明日黄花，但他们清楚地知道，他的继任者——无论是希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)还是某位共和党人——可能会对中国采取更强硬的态度。这意味着，中国仍将寻找与奥巴马合作的途径。
Administration officials reject the contention that Mr. Obama’s focus on Asia has been impeded by events elsewhere in the world. Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, noted that it was his second visit to the region this year — a “substantial investment of time and attention,” she said, given “all the issues that we are all facing.”
奥巴马政府的官员否认他对亚洲的关注受到了世界其他地区事务的影响。国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)指出，这是他今年第二次访问该地区，考虑到“我们面临的各种问题”，这是“相当大的时间和精力的投入”。