Diplomatic tensions between China and Japan showed no signs of abating this past week as the two countries traded barbs over Africa.
过去一周，中日就非洲问题相互攻击，两国外交矛盾毫无缓和迹象。
On Thursday, Lu Shaye, head of the Chinese Foreign Ministry’s African affairs department, defended China’s engagement in the continent. China is “sincere,” Mr. Lu said, “unlike some countries” that he said are driven by self-interest and politics.
周四，中国外交部非洲司司长卢沙野为中国在非洲的行事方式进行辩护。卢沙野说，中国是“真诚”的，“不像有些国家”是出于一己私利或者某种政治目的。
His comments followed remarks by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, during a visit to Mozambique this month, that Japan will not just extract resources from Africa but “create jobs.” Tomohiko Taniguchi, Mr. Abe’s spokesman, told the BBC that countries like Japan “cannot provide African leaders with beautiful houses or beautiful ministerial buildings.” Instead, Japan’s policy is “to really aid the human capital of Africa.”
卢沙野的这番声明是在日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)本月出访莫桑比克时发表言论后做出的，当时，安倍说，日本不会榨取非洲的资源，而是会“创造就业”。安倍晋三的发言人谷口智彦(Tomohiko Taniguchi)在接受BBC采访时表示，像日本这样的国家，“不能给非洲领导人提供漂亮的住宅或漂亮的部委大楼。”相反，日本的政策是“真正向非洲的人力资本提供援助”。
Mr. Abe was trying to distinguish Japan’s efforts from those of China, Europe and the United States, news agencies reported. However, at a time of tension between Japan and China, the Chinese Foreign Ministry responded angrily, calling Mr. Abe’s comments “unprofessional and ridiculous.”
通讯社报道称，安倍晋三是在努力将日本在非洲的作为与中国、欧洲和美国区别开来。然而，在中日关系紧张期，中国外交部对安倍的言论进行了愤怒回应，称安倍的言论“很不专业，也十分可笑”。
Relations between the two countries have been strained because of a sovereignty dispute over several East China Sea islands and unresolved issues from Japan’s wartime past. Mr. Abe’s decision in December to visit the Yasukuni Shrine, where convicted war criminals are honored along with other Japanese war dead, drew angry condemnation from China and South Korea.
由于几个东海小岛引发的主权争议及日本的战时遗留问题，中日关系一直颇为紧张。安倍12月份参拜靖国神社招致中国和韩国愤怒抨击，靖国神社里供奉着在战争中死亡的日本军人，还有被定罪的战犯。
In an online interview with the state news agency Xinhua on Thursday, Mr. Lu said that African countries “have already seen” that Japan was eyeing African resources and markets, wanting to compete with China and to win votes at the United Nations.
周日接受新华社线上采访时，卢沙野称，非洲国家“已经看出来”，日本盯着非洲的资源和市场，希望和中国抗衡，并争取在联合国的投票。
He criticized Japan’s approach as empty words whereas Chinese assistance “can be seen and touched.” China has financed the construction of numerous major infrastructure projects in Africa, including government buildings, roads and railways – often with resource-backed loans.
卢沙野批评日本对非合作都是空话，而中国给非洲的援助是“看得见摸得着的”。中国在非洲资助建设了许多大型基础设施项目，包括政府大楼、公路和铁路——通常是通过用资源做担保的贷款。
“During Abe’s visit to Africa, the Japanese side said China only engages in infrastructure construction,” Mr. Lu said. “The problem is, without infrastructure, how can Africa develop? Why don’t you, Japan, help Africa with basic infrastructure?”
“安倍访问非洲期间，日方说中国只会搞基础设施建设，”卢沙野说。“问题是，非洲要发展你不搞基础设施建设行吗？你日本为什么不帮非洲搞基础设施建设呢？”
In the days after Mr. Abe’s visit to the Yasukuni Shrine, the Chinese government waged a global diplomatic campaign denouncing Mr. Abe’s actions, which Beijing sees as disregarding Japan’s wartime past.
安倍晋三参拜靖国神社几天后，中国政府发起了一场全球性的外交运动，抨击安倍的行为，北京认为安倍无视日本的战时历史。
Shortly after Mr. Abe wrapped up his Africa tour, which included visits to Ivory Coast and Ethiopia and pledges of hundreds of millions of dollars in aid, the Chinese ambassador to Ethiopia, Xie Xiaoyan, held a news conference at which he accused the Japanese leader of being “the biggest troublemaker in Asia,” Xinhua reported.
安倍的非洲之行包括科特迪瓦和埃塞俄比亚等国，承诺提供数亿美元对非援助，据新华社报道，中国驻埃塞俄比亚大使解晓岩随后不久便召开新闻发布会，会上他将日本领导人称为“亚洲最大的麻烦制造者”。
Holding up several graphic photos that he said showed victims of Japanese atrocities during World War II, Mr. Xie said he wanted to inform Africans about Japan’s record in Asia, the article said.
文章称，解晓岩举着几张照片，称照片中是日本在第二次世界大战期间所犯罪行的受害者，他说他想让非洲人了解日本在亚洲曾经的所作所为。
Mr. Xie is one of more than a dozen Chinese ambassadors around the world who have expounded on Beijing’s views in local newspapers and television since Mr. Abe’s visit to the Yasukuni Shrine on Dec. 26.
自12月26日安倍参拜靖国神社以来，已有超过12名驻在全球各地的中国大使通过当地报纸和电视台阐明了北京的立场，解晓岩是其中之一。
Cui Tiankai, the Chinese ambassador to the United States and a former ambassador to Japan, wrote an op-ed piece for The Washington Post this month that called the shrine “ground zero for the unrepentant view of Japan’s wartime aggression.” Mr. Abe’s visit, he said, was a challenge to the world.
本月，中国驻美大使、中国前驻日大使崔天凯在《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)上发表评论文章，称”日本侵略战争拒不悔改的历史观源于靖国神社”。他说，安倍参拜靖国神社是对全世界的一大挑衅。
On Friday, The Washington Post carried an op-ed by the Japanese ambassador in the United States, Kenichiro Sasae, who called on China to “cease its dogmatic anti-Japanese propaganda campaign and work with us toward a future-oriented relationship.”
周五，《华盛顿邮报》刊登了一篇日本驻美大使佐佐江贤一郎(Kenichiro Sasae)的评论文章，佐佐江贤一郎在文章中呼吁中国“停止教条式的反日宣传运动，和我们通力合作，发展着眼于未来的双边关系”。
The Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said on Thursday that the Chinese diplomats’ actions in recent days were aimed at ensuring that countries around the world “clearly recognize the threat to world peace Mr. Abe’s visit to Yasukuni poses.”
周四，中国外交部发言人洪磊表示，中国大使的近期动作旨在确保世界各国“清醒认识安倍此次参拜对世界和平的威胁”。
Beijing’s recent diplomatic push in part reflects the government’s increasing appreciation of public outreach. In recent years, China has stepped up its public diplomacy – from trying to project a better image of Chinese development projects in Myanmar to setting up a Foreign Ministry-affiliated Public Diplomacy Association, led by retired senior diplomats.
北京最近的外交攻势一定程度上反映出中国政府对公关宣传越来越重视。最近几年，中国加大了推行公共外交的力度，包括试图提高中国在缅甸开发工程的形象，以及建立一个附属于外交部、由退休的资深外交人员领导的中国公共外交协会。
Global Times, published an editorial last week that argued that the war of words was an important fight that China “must not lose.”
上周，《环球时报》发表社评称，中日间舆论战十分重要，中国这一次“绝不能输”。
“There is no smoke in this ‘Chinese-Japanese public opinion war’ but it is a special 21st century battlefield,” the paper said.
“这场中日‘舆论甲午战争’没有硝烟，但它却形同二十一世纪的特殊战场，”文章写道。