WASHINGTON — The Central Intelligence Agency is secretly collecting bulk records of international money transfers handled by companies like Western Union — including transactions into and out of the United States — under the same law that the National Security Agency uses for its huge database of Americans’ phone records, according to current and former government officials.
华盛顿——美国现任和前任政府官员表示，中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称中情局）暗中批量收集了西联汇款(Western Union)等公司经手的国际汇款记录，包括转入和转出美国的款项记录，此举和美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，缩写NSA）建立庞大的美国公民电话记录数据库所依据的法律是相同的。
The C.I.A. financial records program, which the officials said was authorized by provisions in the Patriot Act and overseen by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, offers evidence that the extent of government data collection programs is not fully known and that the national debate over privacy and security may be incomplete.
这些官员说，中情局财务记录收集项目以《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)的一项规定为依据，并且受到外国情报监视法院（Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court）的监管。此事表明，美国政府数据收集项目的规模尚不够明朗，而且举国对隐私和安全的辩论可能也不彻底。
Some details of the C.I.A. program were not clear. But it was confirmed by several current and former officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the matter is classified.
中情局这个项目的一些细节尚不清楚，但它已经得到了多名现任及前任官员的证实，因为事属机密，他们要求保持匿名。
The data does not include purely domestic transfers or bank-to-bank transactions, several officials said. Another, while not acknowledging the program, suggested that the surveillance court had imposed rules withholding the identities of any Americans from the data the C.I.A. sees, requiring a tie to a terrorist organization before a search may be run, and mandating that the data be discarded after a certain number of years. The court has imposed several similar rules on the N.S.A. call logs program.
这些数据不包括单纯的国内转账或银行之间的转账，几名官员说。另外一名官员虽然没有明确承认有这个项目，但暗示说监视法院制定了一些规则，让中情局不能轻易看到数据中所有美国人的身份，而且在进行任何搜索之前，都需要提供搜索对象跟恐怖组织之间的确凿联系，此外，数据还必须在一定的年限后销毁。这家法院对NSA的通话记录项目也制定了几条类似的规则。
Several officials also said more than one other bulk collection program has yet to come to light.
几名官员也表示，尚未曝光的、类似的批量数据收集活动不止一个。
“The intelligence community collects bulk data in a number of different ways under multiple authorities,” one intelligence official said.
“情报界采取很多不同的方式，在多个部门里批量收集数据。”一名情报官员说。
Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the C.I.A., declined to confirm whether such a program exists, but said that the agency conducts lawful intelligence collection aimed at foreign — not domestic — activities and that it is subject to extensive oversight. “The C.I.A. protects the nation and upholds the privacy rights of Americans by ensuring that its intelligence collection activities are focused on acquiring foreign intelligence and counterintelligence in accordance with U.S. laws,” he said.
中情局发言人迪恩·博伊德(Dean Boyd)拒绝证实这个项目的存在，但他表示，该机构合法地针对国外、而非美国国内的活动收集情报，而且受到了广泛监督。他说，“中情局在保护这个国家，维护美国公众的隐私权，因为它依照美国法律，确保情报收集活动主要集中在国外情报获取和反间谍工作上。”
In recent months, there have been hints in congressional testimony, declassified documents and litigation that the N.S.A. program — which was disclosed by Edward J. Snowden, a former N.S.A. contractor — is not unique in collecting records involving Americans.
最近几个月，国会证词、解密的文件和诉讼中已经出现一些线索：暗示NSA承包商的前雇员爱德华·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)披露的NSA项目并不是唯一一个收集美国公民记录的项目。
For example, the American Civil Liberties Union is fighting a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit for documents related to Section 215 of the Patriot Act, the provision that allows the government to compel companies to turn over business records for counterterrorism purposes. After the government declassified the N.S.A. phone records program, it has released many documents about it in response to the suit.
例如，美国公民自由联盟（American Civil Liberties Union，缩写ACLU）正在进行一桩以《自由信息法》(Freedom of Information Act)为依据的诉讼，要求获得一些跟《爱国者法案》第215条规定有关的文件。根据215条规定，政府有权迫使企业交出涉及反恐目的的业务记录。政府解密NSA电话记录项目之后，已经发布了很多跟该项目有关的文件，以回应这桩诉讼。
But the government has notified the A.C.L.U. that it is withholding two Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court rulings invoking Section 215 — one dated Aug. 20, 2008, and the other Nov. 23, 2010 — because they discuss matters that remain classified, according to Alexander Abdo, an A.C.L.U. lawyer. “It suggests very strongly that there are other programs of surveillance that the public has a right to know about,” Mr. Abdo said.
但ACLU的律师亚历山大·阿卜杜(Alexander Abdo)说，政府告知ACLU，根据第215条规定，它不能提供外国情报监视法院的两份裁决书——裁决日期分别是2008年8月20日和2010年11月23日——因为它们涉及的事项仍属机密。阿卜杜说：“这很明显，政府还有其他秘密监听项目，公众有权了解它们。”
In addition, a Justice Department “white paper” on the N.S.A.’s call records program, released in August, said that communications logs are “a context” in which the “collection of a large volume of data” is necessary for investigators to be able to analyze links between terrorism suspects and their associates. It did not say that call records are the only context that meets the criteria for bulk gathering.
此外，在8月时，司法部(Justice Department)发布了一份NSA通话记录项目的“白皮书”，称通话记录是“一个领域”，在这个领域中，调查者有必要通过“大量收集数据”来分析恐怖主义嫌疑人及其关系人之间的联系。但它没有说通话记录是满足批量收集数据标准的唯一领域。
In hearings on Capitol Hill, government officials have repeatedly avoided saying that phone logs — which include date, duration and numbers of phone calls, but not their content — are the only type of data that would qualify for bulk collection under the Patriot Act provision. In a little-noticed exchange late in an Oct. 3 hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the N.S.A. director, appeared to go further.
在国会山的听证会上，政府官员曾多次回避说电话记录——包括日期、通话时间和电话号码，但没有通话内容——是唯一一种在《爱国者法案》规定下批量收集的数据。在10月3日参议院司法委员会一个听证会快结束时，NSA局长、上将基思·B·亚历山大(Gen. Keith B. Alexander)在一段不太引人注意的对话中似乎泄露了更多线索。
At the hearing, Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, asked General Alexander and James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, a sweeping question: “So what are all of the programs run by the N.S.A. or other federal agencies” that used either Section 215 of the Patriot Act or another surveillance law that allows warrantless wiretapping of phone and emails?
在这次听证会上，夏威夷民主党参议员广野庆子(Mazie K. Hirono)向亚历山大和国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)提出了一个总括性问题：根据《爱国者法案》的第215条，或者根据允许政府在没有搜查令的情况下监听电话和电邮的其他监视法律，NSA和其他联邦机构开展的项目一共有哪些？
General Alexander responded by describing, once again, the N.S.A.’s call records program, adding, “None of that is hid from you.” Mr. Clapper said nothing.
亚历山大的回应是再一次描述了NSA的通话记录项目，并称：“那些都没瞒着你。”克拉珀则什么都没说。
Then, moments later, General Alexander interjected that he was talking only about what the N.S.A. is doing under the Patriot Act provision and appearing to let slip that other agencies are operating their own programs.
不过，片刻之后，亚历山大又插话说，他指的只是NSA根据《爱国者法案》的规定开展的项目，这似乎暗示了其他机构也在开展自己的项目。
“You know, that’s of course a global thing that others use as well, but for ours, it’s just that way,” General Alexander said.
“当然，这是一个其他人也在普遍使用的方法，但在我们来说，就只是这样了。”亚历山大说。