China’s proclamation of a new “air defense identification zone,” an obscure aviation term that became the catalyst for escalating military tensions with Japan and the United States this week, has thrown a broader spotlight on the control of international airspace, an issue that has created confusion, and danger, in other places affected by territorial disputes.
中国宣布划设一个新的“防空识别区”（这个晦涩的航空术语本周成为让中国与日本和美国之间军事紧张局势升级的一个导火索）引起人们对国际空域控制的关注。在其他一些有领土争端的地方，防空识别区问题带来了困惑和危险。
Who has the right to fly where has been a historical irritant in relations between China and Vietnam, Panama and Colombia, Japan and Russia, to name a few examples. Aviation experts say airspace-control arguments are perhaps most acute in Cyprus, the divided Mediterranean island, where rival air traffic controllers on the Greek and Turkish sides do not communicate with each other and can give conflicting flight information to pilots, elevating the risk of collisions.
谁有权在什么地方飞行——这个问题一直都是影响中国与越南、巴拿马与哥伦比亚、日本与俄罗斯等国家的一个历史问题。航空专家说，有关空域管制的争论可能在塞浦路斯最严重，因为在这个分裂的地中海岛屿上，相互间不沟通的希腊和土耳其两方面的空中交通管制员，可能给驾驶员提供相互矛盾的飞行信息，增加撞机的风险。
No international treaties or agreements define the size or the rules of air defense identification zones, known by their initials, A.D.I.Z. The zones, which originated early in World War II, have been established by more than a dozen countries with maritime borders, most notably the United States and Canada. The United States was also responsible for defining the zones claimed by Japan, Taiwan and South Korea, a legacy of the American military role played in the region since the Cold War, and an underlying source of resentment in China that perhaps helps to explain why it has asserted its own zone.
目前没有任何国际条约或协定对防空识别区（国际简称为ADIZ）的大小和规则做出定义。防空识别区发源于二战早期，迄今十几个有海洋边境的国家划设了防空识别区，其中最著名的是美国和加拿大。美国还负责划设了日本、台湾和韩国的防空识别区，这是美国自冷战时期以来在该地区扮演军事角色所遗留的，也是中国耿耿于怀的一个根本因素，或许有助于解释中国为什么要设立自己的防空识别区。
Managed by domestic military and civilian authorities, the zones are much bigger than the internationally recognized boundaries of the countries that proclaim them. While not legally binding, they require that aircraft intending to enter the zones first provide identification and location information to determine whether they are a threat to national security. Aircraft that fail to comply may be regarded as hostile, potentially leading to their being forced to land or shot down.
防空识别区归国内的军事和文职机构管理，此类区域远远大于有关国家得到国际承认的领空界线。尽管在法律上不具有约束力，但防空识别区要求有意进入的飞机首先提供身份和位置信息，以确定它们是否构成国家安全威胁。不服从的飞机可能被视为怀有敌意，可能导致被迫降落或是被击落。
Civilian aviation officials said Wednesday that China’s new zone was just another fact of life international commercial airlines must now take into account in their flight plans and scheduling. “There have been no delays, disruptions or anything that would impact the traveling public,” said Perry Flint, a spokesman in Washington for the International Air Transport Association, a trade group. “We continue to monitor the situation closely.”
民航官员周三表示，中国新设立的防空识别区，只是国际商业航空公司在飞行计划和调度方面必须考虑的又一个现实。行业组织——国际航空运输协会(International Air Transport Association)发言人佩里·弗林特(Perry Flint)在华盛顿说，“迄今没有给旅行的公众带来延迟、中断或是其他任何影响。我们在继续密切关注情况。”
Others said, however, that China’s new zone was different in some important respects — the most obvious being that it overlaps with Japan’s in an area where both claim sovereignty to islands known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China. Aircraft traversing that airspace could face a confusing situation.
但是其他人表示，中国新设立的防空识别区有一些重要的不同之处，最明显的便是这个识别区与日本的防空识别圈部分重叠，重叠区域覆盖中日两国都宣称拥有主权的岛屿——中国称其为钓鱼岛及其附属岛屿，日本称其为尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)。途经这一空域的飞机可能会陷入困惑。
“The question here is, file the intent with which nation?” Robert Mann, an aviation consultant, said. “Seems the jury is out about filing to one, the other, or both. It won’t really be an issue until someone’s aircraft is intercepted. Hopefully not.”
航空专家罗伯特·曼(Robert Mann)说，“这里的问题是，该向哪个国家提交飞行意图？该向一方或是双方都提交飞行计划？这个问题似乎还没有定论。如果没有哪一家航空公司的飞机被拦截，这个问题就不算什么。希望不会出现这种情况。”
The Chinese also imposed requirements that other countries do not, notably that all aircraft — even those that are not flying to a China destination but are simply passing through — provide identification and flight plans. Secretary of State John Kerry made a point of emphasizing that distinction in his criticism of China’s new zone on Saturday. “The United States does not apply its A.D.I.Z. procedures to foreign aircraft not intending to enter U.S. national airspace,” he said.
中国还提出了其他国家从未提出的要求，尤其是所有飞机——即便是那些目的地并非中国，而只是经过的飞机——都要提交身份识别以及飞行计划。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)上周六在指责中国的新防空识别区时强调了这一区别。他说，“美国没有要求无意进入美国领空的外国飞机遵守ADIZ程序。”
China provided no advance warning of its new zone to the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations specialized agency, based in Montreal, that sets standards and regulations necessary for aviation safety and security. Anthony Philbin, a spokesman, said in an emailed response to a query that “China was not required to contact I.C.A.O. on this matter and it therefore did not provide us with any notice.”
中国没有向位于蒙特利尔的联合国机构——国际民用航空组织(International Civil Aviation Organization)提前通报划设防空识别区之举；该组织为飞行安全和安保制定必要的标准和规定。ICAO发言人安东尼·菲尔宾(Anthony Philbin)在一封问询此事的邮件中回复道，“中国在此事上不需要联系ICAO，因此中国没有给我们发出任何通知。”
Some airlines have begun filing plans with China. Singapore Airlines, which does route flights over the disputed airspace, files its plans with the Japanese authorities but said that since Monday it had “been keeping Chinese authorities informed” of flights through the area, according to a spokesman.
一些航空公司已经开始向中国提供飞行计划。新加坡航空公司(Singapore Airlines)有定期航班经过上述有争议的空域，该航空公司发言人称，其目前向日本政府提交飞行计划，但从周一开始已“告知中国官方”飞越这一区域的航班信息。
It is rare that commercial airlines become hostages to political disputes, but there are precedents. In 1983, Korean Air Lines Flight 007 was shot down by a Soviet military jet after flying through a prohibited zone. All 269 people on board died.
商业航空公司很少成为政治争议的牺牲品，但这方面确有先例。1983年，大韩航空公司(Korean Air Lines)的007航班在飞越一个禁飞区后被苏联空军的战斗机击落。机上269人全部死亡。