Around 10 days after being identified by Newsweek magazine as the mysterious creator of the digital currency Bitcoin, Dorian Nakamoto, a 64-year-old semi-employed engineer, has hired a lawyer and issued a statement unconditionally denying that he had any involvement in Bitcoin.
日前，《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)将64岁的兼职工程师多利安·中本聪(Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto)指认为数字货币比特币的神秘创造者，报道刊出大约10天之后，多利安·中本聪聘请了一名律师，并且发表了一则声明，无条件地否认了自己与比特币之间的任何关系。
“I am writing this statement to clear my name,” Mr. Nakamoto said in the statement released early Monday morning by his lawyer, Ethan D. Kirschner of Los Angeles. “I did not create, invent or otherwise work on Bitcoin.”
“我写这份声明是为了给自己正名，”中本聪在声明中称。该声明于周一清晨由他的律师、来自洛杉矶的伊桑·D·基施纳(Ethan D. Kirschner)发布。“我没有创造或发明比特币，也没有以其他方式参与比特币的工作。”
Mr. Nakamoto said in the statement that he first heard the term Bitcoin last month from his son after Newsweek contacted the son about the article. He also noted that he had recently fallen on hard times, working as a polltaker and substitute teacher. And in a disclosure clearly meant to challenge his identification as a technological revolutionary, Mr. Nakamoto said he discontinued his Internet service in 2013 because he could not afford it.
中本聪在声明中称，上个月，《新闻周刊》为前述报道联系他的儿子之后，他才第一次从儿子那里听说了比特币这个词。他还指出，他最近的日子不算好过，干的是民意测验员和兼职教师的工作。中本聪披露，2013年，他曾因无力支付相关费用而中断网络服务，这个说法明显是为了否认自己的科技革命者身份。
The statement increased the pressure on Newsweek, which had just returned to print under new owners with the Bitcoin article on its cover. It also appeared to lay the groundwork for possible litigation against Newsweek, legal experts said. Mr. Nakamoto included assertions that his prospects for gainful employment have been harmed by the article and that the “false report has been the source of a great deal of confusion and stress for myself, my 93-year-old mother, my siblings and their families.”
这份声明增加了《新闻周刊》的压力。该杂志换了老板，刚刚恢复印刷版本，印刷版本的封面上就有那篇关于比特币的文章。法律专家称，该声明似乎还为针对《新闻周刊》的潜在诉讼奠定了基础。中本聪在声明中称，《新闻周刊》的报道破坏了他找到好工作的前景，“不实报道给我本人、我93岁的母亲、我的兄弟姐妹和他们的家人带来了很大的困惑和压力。”
Newsweek has vigorously defended its reporting and the accuracy of its identification of Mr. Nakamoto, which the article’s author, Leah McGrath Goodman, has said was based on months of reporting. On Monday, Newsweek said that it had not received any statement or letter from either Mr. Nakamoto or his lawyer. “If and when we do,” the magazine said, “we will respond as necessary.”
《新闻周刊》为自己的报道以及中本聪身份确认的准确性进行了大力辩护，报道作者莉亚·麦格拉斯·古德曼(Leah McGrath Goodman)曾表示，她确认身份的依据是几个月当中的报道。周一，《新闻周刊》表示，该杂志并未收到中本聪或其律师发来的任何声明或书信。“如果收到了，”该杂志称，“我们会做出必要的回应。”
Once a division of The Washington Post Company, Newsweek has struggled in recent years and been passed among several owners. In 2010, The Post sold it to the businessman Sidney Harman, who later teamed up with Barry Diller. They subsequently sold it to IBT Media, a small digital publishing company, who installed as editor in chief Jim Impoco, a former Sunday business editor at The New York Times.
《新闻周刊》曾是华盛顿邮报公司(The Washington Post Company)旗下的杂志，最近几年陷入了困境，已经数次易手。2010年，华盛顿邮报公司将它卖给了商人西德尼·哈曼(Sidney Harman)，哈曼后来与巴里·迪勒(Barry Diller)开展合作。随后，两人又将该杂志卖给了小型数字出版公司IBT媒体(IBT Media)，后者将前《纽约时报》周日版商业主编吉姆·伊波科(Jim Impoco)任命为该杂志的总编辑。
IBT’s owners trumpeted Newsweek’s return to print as reflecting a renewed interest in the storied brand. The Bitcoin article created a splash, but now the magazine finds itself facing pointed questions.
IBT的老板吹嘘称，《新闻周刊》恢复了印刷版，表明这个传奇品牌再次引发了人们的兴趣。有关比特币的文章确实引起了极大关注，到了现在，该杂志却发现自己面临着一些尖锐的问题。
Bill Grueskin, dean of academic affairs at the Columbia Journalism School, noted how unusual it was for “the very person at the heart of story to directly challenge the story.”
哥伦比亚大学新闻学院主管学术事务的院长比尔·格鲁斯金(Bill Grueskin)指出，“一个故事的最核心人物直接向它发出挑战”，这极不寻常。
“I don’t understand Newsweek’s response,” Mr. Grueskin said. “It feels like something done by lawyers rather than editors.”
“我不理解《新闻周刊》的回应，”格鲁斯金说，“这更像是律师写出来的，而不是编辑所为。”
In reporting on Bitcoin, Newsweek has tapped into a phenomenon: a passionate online community of believers in a digital currency that operates independently of governments and banks. Fueled by speculators and a few businesses that use the currency to conduct businesses, the price of a Bitcoin has shot up in value, making the entire system worth billions of dollars.
在报道比特币时，《新闻周刊》挖掘了一个现象：一个充满热情的在线社区，他们笃信这种独立于政府和银行运作的数字货币。由于投机者和一些企业使用这种数字货币来开展业务，比特币的价格急升，使得整个系统价值达到数以十亿计。
The mystery of who created the system has fascinated other publications and technologists since Bitcoin was created in 2008 by a still unknown individual, or group, known as Satoshi Nakamoto.
自从2008年创立以来，究竟是谁建立了这个体系，这一谜团至今吸引着很多出版商和技术专家。究竟是哪个叫做中本聪的个人或组织创造了比特币，不得而知。
Newsweek said it had found its man, identifying him as Mr. Nakamoto of Temple City, Calif., whose full name is Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto. But from the moment the article was published, skeptics tried to poke holes in the reporting, while others objected to Ms. Goodman’s aggressive approach with Mr. Nakamoto, which led him to call the police when she appeared at his front door.
《新闻周刊》声称他们找到了中本聪，他来自加州坦普尔市，全名为多利安·中本聪。但从这篇文章发表的那一刻起，怀疑者就试图在报道中寻找漏洞，而其他人则对古德曼在与中本聪接触过程中具有侵略性的手段表示反对。中本聪在古德曼出现他家门口的时候报了警。
It was that encounter that Ms. Goodman has pointed to as evidence buttressing Newsweek’s claim that Mr. Nakamoto invented Bitcoin. “I am no longer involved in that and I cannot discuss it,” he said, according to the article. “It’s been turned over to other people. They are in charge of it now. I no longer have any connection.”
古特曼正是将这次遭遇作为证据，来支持《新闻周刊》所说的中本聪就是比特币发明者人。“我不能讨论这件事因为我已经与它无关，”根据文章记载，他这样说道。“现在已经转交给其他人了，他们现在管这件事，我已经没有任何联系了。”
Yet in the statement issued by his lawyer, Mr. Nakamoto said that despite some programming skills, he lacked the expertise that would seem crucial to creating Bitcoin. “I have no knowledge of nor have I ever worked on cryptography, peer-to-peer systems or alternative currencies,” he said.
然而在他律师发表的声明中，中本聪提出虽然他有一些编程的能力，但缺少发明比特币所需要的必不可少的专业知识。“我没有密码学、P2P系统(peer-to-peer systems)或替代货币方面的专业知识，也从没有从事过相关领域的工作，”他说。
If Mr. Nakamoto sued Newsweek asserting that he did not invent Bitcoin, legal experts say that his most likely claim would be that he was depicted in a “false light.” Even though what Newsweek said about Mr. Nakamoto would generally be viewed as complimentary — a genius programmer who created a potentially revolutionary virtual currency — he would still have grounds to bring a lawsuit.
中本聪起诉了《新闻周刊》，声称他并没有发明比特币。法律专家说他最有可能以歪曲报道的理由提起诉讼。尽管《新闻周刊》对于中本聪的报道可以被视为一种称赞——一位天才程序员发明了一项革命性的虚拟货币——但他还是有提起诉讼的理由。
“People get offended when certain kinds of false things are said about them,” said Eugene Volokh, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, “even if they are too positive.” He cited the example of the baseball great Warren Spahn who sued in the 1960s over being incorrectly described as having earned a bronze star in World War II.
“不真实的事情安到自己头上的时候会感到反感，”加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)的法学教授尤金·沃洛赫(Eugene Volokh)说，“即使是正面的事情。”他举出了60年代提起诉讼的棒球名将沃伦·施潘(Warren Spahn)的例子，他被不实地描写为在二战当中得到过铜星勋章。