WASHINGTON — For four years, investigators working for the Senate Intelligence Committee toiled away at a secret facility in Northern Virginia, poring over C.I.A. documents in an attempt to compile a history of the agency’s detention and interrogation program. Outfitted with secure computers and encrypted locks, it was set up by the C.I.A. so that the committee staffers could review millions of highly classified documents and stitch together a report that would eventually grow to 6,000 pages.
华盛顿——在四年的时间里，参议院情报委员会的调查人员在弗吉尼亚州北部的一处秘密设施辛勤地工作，仔细查阅中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称中情局）的文件，为了编写一份有关中情局拘留和审讯项目历史的报告。这处设施由中情局建立，拥有安全的计算机网络和加密锁，目的是让委员会成员能够阅读大量高度保密的文件，最终完成一份长达6000页的报告。
That office is now at the center of an escalating fight between the spy agency and its congressional overseers, and an investigation by the C.I.A.’s inspector general, who according to two government officials has referred the matter to the Justice Department.
如今，这处办公地点正处在这家情报机构与它在国会监管者斗争的风口浪尖之上，也成了中情局检察长进行的一项调查的焦点。两名政府官员说，中情局的检察长已把该问题提交给了司法部。
Senior lawmakers contend that C.I.A. officers conducted unauthorized searches of the computers used by committee staff members in an effort to learn how the committee gained access to the agency’s own 2009 internal review of the interrogation program. A chorus of Democratic senators on Wednesday said the C.I.A. had thwarted Congress’ constitutional role as overseer, suggested that federal laws may have been broken, and demanded answers from the Obama administration.
一些资深议员认为，中情局的特工在未经授权的情况下搜查了参议院情报委员会成员使用的计算机，目的是了解委员会是如何得到该机构2009年对审讯项目的内部审核报告的。民主党参议员周三一致表示，中情局妨碍了国会由宪法赋予的监管者角色，并表示，其行为可能触犯了联邦法律，要求奥巴马政府给予答复。
But other officials, none who have spoken publicly, have implied that it was the committee that acted improperly by penetrating parts of the C.I.A.’s computer network it was not authorized to access, and rejected the accusations. In a statement Wednesday evening, the C.I.A. director, John O. Brennan, said he was “deeply dismayed” that a number of lawmakers had “decided to make spurious allegations about C.I.A. actions that are wholly unsupported by the facts.”
但另外一些未公开表态的官员则暗示说，行为不当的是委员会，因为他们进入了自己没有授权进入的中情局的部分计算机网络，还拒绝承认上述指责。中情局局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)周三晚间发表声明说，一些议员“决定对中情局的活动进行完全没有事实依据的、站不住脚的指控”，这让他“深感失望”。
Mr. Brennan said he was “very confident that the appropriate authorities would determine where wrongdoing, if any, occurred in either the executive branch or the legislative branch” — hinting that members of the committee staff are also under scrutiny.
布伦南说，他“相信，相关部门将会找出，如果真有什么错误的行为，它到底出现在哪里，究竟是在执行机构还是在立法机构”——这意味着，委员会成员也会受到审查。
Emerging as a central question in the dispute is whether the C.I.A. had any authority to search the computers at the Virginia facility. In a filing made last week as part of a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit, a C.I.A. official said that the agency had gone to some lengths to ensure that committee investigators could do their work independent of any C.I.A. monitoring.
争议的一个核心问题是，中情局是否有权搜查弗吉尼亚设施里的计算机。一名中情局官员在上周为一项《自由信息法》(Freedom of Information Act)诉讼提交的文件中说，该机构已经做出了很大的努力，确保委员会的调查人员可以在不受中情局监视的情况下独立工作。
Even though the committee’s work was being done at an agency facility, the official wrote in the court filing, the agency had created a “network shared drive” that was segregated from the main C.I.A. computer network.
这名官员在这份提交法庭的文件中写道，即使委员会的工作是在中情局的设施中开展的，中情局已经建立了一个“网络共享盘”，与中情局主要的计算机网络是分开的。
The agreement between the Senate committee and the C.I.A. was that “materials created by S.S.C.I. personnel on this segregated shared drive would not become ‘agency records’ even though this work product was being created and stored on a C.I.A. computer system,” according to the court filing, which used the acronym for intelligence committee’s official name, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.
这份法庭文件中说，根据参议院委员会和中情局之间的协议，“SSCI的工作人员在这个单独的共享硬上创建的文件，将不会成为 ‘中情局记录’的一部分，即使该工作成果是在中情局的计算机系统中创建和储存的”。文件使用了参议院情报委员会(Senate Select Committee on Intelligence)的首字母缩写SSCI。
The intelligence committee finished its 6,000-page report on interrogation and detention last December, but the report has not been declassified in part because of an ongoing dispute with the C.I.A. over some of its conclusions. In June, Mr. Brennan gave the committee a 122-page response, which challenged both facts in the report as well as the investigation’s overarching conclusion that the C.I.A.’s interrogation methods carried out in the years after the Sept. 11, 20001 attacks yielded little valuable intelligence.
情报委员会去年12月就完成了这份关于审讯和拘留的长达6000页的报告，但报告没有被解密，其中一个原因是，委员会与中情局目前对一些结论存有争议。6月，布伦南对委员会做出了长达122页的回复，质疑了报告中罗列的事实，以及调查的主要结论：2001年的“9·11”袭击后，中情局的审讯方法未能带来有价值的情报。