TOKYO — Japan’s finance minister urged the United States on Tuesday to avoid a default that could cast the global economy into turmoil and hurt the value of Japan’s enormous holdings of United States Treasury bonds, a day after similar warnings from China, which has an even larger stake in American debt.
东京——周二，日本财务大臣敦促美国避免政府违约，若美国违约，全球经济或将陷入混乱，日本所持有的巨额美国国债也将贬值。此前一天，所持美国债权比日本还多的中国也发出了类似警告。
China and Japan, the two largest foreign creditors of the United States, are growing increasingly worried over the potential economic and political fallout if American leaders are unable to strike a deal to lift the debt ceiling from its current $16.7 trillion, raising the prospect of a default and disrupted financial markets.
中国和日本是美国最大的两个债权国。若美国领导人无法达成协议提高现有的16.7万亿美元（约合102万亿元人民币）债务上限，可能会导致美国违约及金融市场混乱，对于这一前景的潜在经济和政治后果，中日两国愈发担忧。
“The U.S. must avoid a situation where it cannot pay, and its triple-A ranking plunges all of a sudden,” the Japanese finance minister, Taro Aso, was quoted as saying by Reuters. “The U.S. must be fully aware that if that happens, the U.S. would fall into fiscal crisis.”
“美国必须避免自身出现债务违约、AAA评级骤降的情况，”路透社(Reuters)引用日本财务大臣麻生太郎(Taro Aso)的话称。“美国必须充分意识到，若出现这种情况，美国将陷入财政危机。”
Japan holds $1.14 trillion in United States Treasuries, second only to China’s $1.28 trillion, according to the Treasury Department.
据美国财政部数据，日本拥有1.14万亿美元美国国债，是美国的第二大债主，仅次于拥有1.28万亿美元美国国债的中国。
On Monday, in China’s first comments on the government shutdown and debt-ceiling battle in Washington, Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao said that he had contacted Washington. According to Reuters, he said that the United States had the “responsibility” to avoid a debt crisis and that China had asked the United States to “earnestly” take steps to prevent default, “to ensure safety of Chinese investments in the United States and the global economic recovery.”
周一，中国首次对华盛顿政府停摆和债务上限之争发表了评论，中国财政部副部长朱光耀表示，他已和华盛顿方面进行沟通。据路透社报道，朱光耀称，美国有“责任”避免债务危机，中方已要求美国采取“切实”措施来防止违约，“确保中国对美投资的安全和世界经济复苏。”
Mr. Zhu pointed out that despite negotiations among American politicians in 2011, one agency, Standard & Poor’s, downgraded its triple-A rating for United States Treasury securities. “We hope that the U.S. can draw lessons from history,” he said.
朱光耀提到，2011年，尽管美国政界就债务上限问题展开了谈判，但国际评级机构标准普尔公司(Standard & Poor's)还是调低了美国国债的AAA信用评级。“希望美方充分了解历史教训。”朱光耀说道。
For Japanese leaders, the paralysis in Washington creates a new political risk, raising the specter of a diminished American presence in the Asia-Pacific region at a time of intensifying territorial disputes and fears of China’s rise. And an American fiscal crisis holds a particular risk for Japan’s popular prime minister, Shinzo Abe. The economic recovery he has so painstakingly engineered depends on a weak yen, which may rise again in value if alarmed investors begin dumping American dollars.
对日本领导人而言，华盛顿的政府瘫痪带来了新的政治风险，可能导致美国在亚太地区的影响力下降，与此同时，亚太地区的领土争端及中国崛起引发的恐惧正不断加剧。如果美国发生财政危机，对日本颇受欢迎的首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)来说尤其是个风险。安倍辛苦推动的经济复苏依赖于日元的贬值，而如果警惕的投资者开始抛售美元，日元可能将再度升值。
The shutdown forced President Obama to cancel participation this week in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Indonesia, ceding the lead role at the crucial regional meeting to China’s president, Xi Jinping.
由于政府停摆，奥巴马被迫取消参加本周在印尼召开的亚太经济合作组织论坛，将在这一关键性地区会议的领导者角色拱手让与中国国家主席习近平。
Mr. Obama’s absence was viewed with anxiety in Japan, which is locked in a heated dispute with China over the control of a tiny group of islands and has counted on a firm American presence to keep China’s territorial ambitions in check. The shutdown renewed questioning in some Japanese news media about the ability of the United States to maintain its dominant military presence in the region when it faces severe budget constraints at home.
奥巴马的缺席在日本引发担忧，日本已因一小群岛屿的控制权问题与中国陷入激烈的争论，指望依靠美国的坚实军事存在来限制中国的领土野心。美国政府停摆促使日本的一些新闻媒体再次提出了相关问题，也就是说，美国自身在国内面临着严重的预算限制，是否有能力保持在该地区的主导性军事存在。
Mr. Obama addressed the concerns over his absence in a news conference on the standoff on Tuesday at the White House. “Already this week I had to miss critical meetings in Asia to promote American jobs and businesses,” he said. “And although as long as we get this fixed that’s not long-term damage, whenever we do these things, it hurts our credibility around the world. It makes it look like we don’t have our act together. And that’s not something we should welcome.”
周二，奥巴马在白宫(White House)就预算僵局召开新闻发布会，提到了各方对他缺席亚洲峰会的担忧。“本周，我不得不错过亚洲地区的关键会议，错过了促进美国就业及商业发展的机会，”他说。“只要我们解决了眼下的这个问题，就不会造成长期损害，尽管如此，每当我们做出这些事情的时候，都会损害我们在世界范围内的信誉。这会让人们觉得我们不能采取一致行动。这不是我们应该欢迎的事情。”
Answering questions after his statement, Mr. Obama noted, “If we are — are creating an atmosphere in which people are not sure whether or not we pay our bills on time, then that will have a severe long-term impact on our economy and on America’s standard of living.” And he declined to list payment priorities, saying, “If the markets are seeing that we’re not paying all our bills on time, that will affect our creditworthiness even if some people are being paid on time.”
发表声明之后，奥巴马在回答问题时指出，“如果我们创造了一种气氛，使人们不确定我们是否能按时支付账单，那么，我们的经济发展及美国的生活标准将会遭受严重的长期影响。”奥巴马拒绝列出支付的优先顺序，并且表示，“即便我们按时支付了一些人的账单，如果市场看到我们没有按时支付所有账单，我们的信誉还是会受到影响。”
But he said that his absence at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting would not do lasting damage, and that regional trade talks he is keen on pressing would continue.
但他表示，他缺席亚太经济合作组织峰会一事不会带来持续的损害，而他极力推动的区域贸易会谈也会继续。
Last week, both Mr. Aso and Yoshihide Suga, the top government spokesman and chief cabinet secretary, tried to allay concerns about the standoff, calling it a domestic issue for the United States. But Mr. Aso’s comments on Tuesday were some of the bluntest yet by a top Japanese official, appearing to reflect growing impatience in Tokyo.
上周，麻生太郎和日本政府高级发言人、内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)都曾试图减轻人们对美国预算僵局的担忧，称这是美国的国内问题。然而，麻生太郎周二发表了到目前为止日本高官当中最直接的评论，似乎表明东京方面越来越不耐烦。
The budget standoff “is likely to hurt all facets of the global economy through financial markets,” Mr. Aso said. “We have to consider the risk that prices of Japan’s holdings of U.S. Treasuries will decrease.”
预算僵局“可能会通过金融市场损害全球经济的各个方面”，麻生太郎说。“我们必须考虑这样的一个风险，也就是说，日本所持美国国债的价格将下跌。”
To express Japan’s concern directly to the Americans, Mr. Aso indicated that he may press the issue with the American Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, when the two meet later this week during a two-day gathering of the Group of 20 finance ministers in Washington.
为了向美方直接表达日本的担忧，麻生太郎表示，他可能会向财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)提出这个问题，两人将于本周晚些时候在华盛顿参加为期两天的20国集团财长会议。
Those concerns seemed to gain additional impetus on Tuesday, when Japan’s army announced that a joint exercise with the United States Army that had been scheduled for next week in Japan had been canceled because of the American government shutdown.
周二，日本军方宣布，由于美国政府停摆，计划于下周与美国陆军在日本举行的联合军演已被取消，这一消息似乎加剧了前述担忧。