PEARCE AIR FORCE BASE, Australia — The search for a missing Malaysia Airlines jet entered its third week on Sunday, as data from a French satellite buttressed the theory that the plane might have fallen into the southern Indian Ocean, far off the west coast of Australia. But the day ended without any possible wreckage being found.
澳大利亚皮尔斯空军基地——上周日，对马航失联班机的搜索进入第三周，来自一颗法国卫星的数据佐证了班机可能坠入远离澳大利西岸的南印度洋的推断。不过，当日结束时，人们依然没有找到任何可能是残骸的物体。
Australia and China have already released blurry satellite images of objects floating in the sea, and officials said those might be wreckage from the Boeing 777-200, which disappeared on March 8 after leaving Kuala Lumpur for a routine night flight to Beijing. Now a French satellite has also detected objects in the southern Indian Ocean that might be related to Flight 370, the Malaysian Ministry of Transport said in a statement.
澳大利亚和中国已经公布了模糊的卫星图像，显示海面有漂浮物，双方官员表示，这些物体或许是失踪波音777-200客机的残骸，这架飞机在今年3月8日离开吉隆坡飞往北京的常规夜航途中消失了。马来西亚交通部(Ministry of Transport)在一则声明中说，目前，一颗法国卫星也在南印度洋观测了可能与370次失联班机有关的物体。
France’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the possible debris was spotted using satellite-based radar, but gave no other details about the image or the objects’ precise location. The announcement appears likely to reinforce a belief that the plane fell into the ocean far off Western Australia after veering sharply from its planned route. Investigators say they believe military radar and satellite signals indicate the plane cut across Peninsular Malaysia, headed west over the Indian Ocean and then possibly south toward where Australia has organized a search involving New Zealand and the United States. Britain, China and Japan have also sent military planes and ships to aid the hunt.
法国外交部表示，法方是用基于卫星的雷达探测到了疑似碎片，不过，他们没有提供图像的其他细节，也没有提供该物体的确切位置。法方宣布的消息似乎有可能强化一种看法，即飞机已在急剧偏离预定航线后坠入远离澳大利亚西岸的大洋。调查人员说，他们认为，军用雷达信号和卫星信号显示，飞机径直穿过了马来西亚半岛，朝西飞向了印度洋，随后可能朝南飞向了某个区域。澳大利亚已组织展开了针对该区域的搜索行动，新西兰和美国都参与了搜索行动。英国、中国和日本也派遣了军机和船舰协助进行搜索。
Flight Lt. Russell Adams, the pilot of an Australian P-3 military aircraft that spent more than 10 hours on Sunday searching for debris, said weather conditions had deteriorated in parts of the search zone.
澳大利亚空军中尉、P-3军机飞行员罗素·亚当斯(Russell Adams)说，部分搜索区域的天气情况已经恶化。周日，他驾驶的军机花了超过10个小时来搜索残骸。
“There was cloud down to the surface,” he told reporters minutes after landing at the base here, which is about 30 miles north of the western Australian city of Perth.
在皮尔斯空军基地降落几分钟之后，他对记者说，“云层低至海面。”皮尔斯空军基地位于澳大利亚西部城市帕斯以北，距离该市约30英里（约48公里）。
The search is focused on an area about 1,550 miles southwest of Perth. On Monday, Australian authorities said ten aircraft would be involved in the search, including a United States Navy P-8 Poseidon, two Chinese transport planes and two Japanese patrol planes, all departing from the air force base here.
搜索行动的重点是帕斯西南方向约1550英里的海域。澳大利亚当局表示，周一将有十架飞机参与搜索，其中包括一架美国海军P-8海神(P-8 Poseidon)巡逻机，两架中国运输机和两架日本巡逻机，所有飞机都会从这座空军基地出发。
On Saturday, the Chinese government said that one of its satellites had spotted an “unusual object” on Tuesday in an area where Australia had already organized a search. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the country’s planes and ships would try to reach the area and look for the whitish object, about 74 feet by 43 feet. It was observed about 65 nautical miles southwest of the spot where, two days earlier, another satellite had captured similar images of floating objects, which the Australian government said might be wreckage from Flight 370.
上周六，中国政府表示，一颗中国卫星于上周二在澳大利亚组织搜索的区域侦测到一件“不同寻常的物体”。中国外交部表示，中国飞机和船只将设法抵达该区域，寻找这件长约74英尺（约22米）、宽约43英尺的灰白色物体。在此两天前，另一颗卫星捕捉到了与此类似的漂浮物的图像，澳大利亚政府当时说，该漂浮物可能是370次航班的残骸。中国卫星观测到的漂浮物位于前述漂浮物的西南方向，和后者的距离约为65海里。
Experts on satellite imagery and open-ocean recovery said the two sightings might be of the same object or objects, and that might give the search teams more information with which to calculate ocean currents and drift speeds, turn back the clock and estimate where the plane might have struck the ocean sometime after 8 a.m. Malaysia time on March 8.
一些卫星图像和公海搜救方面的专家表示，两颗卫星观测到的可能是相同的一件或几件物体，由此可能会给搜索队伍提供更多信息，以便他们计算洋流和物体漂移的速度，回溯飞机是在马来西亚时间3月8日早8点之后的何时及何处坠入了大洋。
There is no evidence that the debris from either Indian Ocean sighting is from the missing airliner. On Saturday, a New Zealand P-3 Orion patrol plane flew over the area and reported sighting only “clumps of seaweed,” the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, which is overseeing the search, said on Sunday. Early search efforts were plagued by sightings of debris that turned out to be false leads, including a satellite image from the South China Sea released by the same Chinese agency that released the new picture on Saturday.
卫星两次在印度洋里侦测到了碎片，但没有证据显示任何一次侦测到的碎片是来自于失联班机。监管搜索行动的澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)于周日表示，上周六，一架新西兰P-3猎户座(P-3 Orion)巡逻机飞越了该海域，但却报告说他们只看到了“成团的海草”。早期的搜寻工作曾因为碎片的事情受到干扰，因为人们有了一些后来被证明为错误线索的发现，比如周日发布新图像的中国机构之前发布的一张南海卫星图像。
Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia, who was on a trip to Papua New Guinea, said on Sunday that the Chinese images were consistent with the images he announced in Parliament on Thursday. “Obviously we have now had a number of very credible leads and there is increasing hope, no more than hope, that we might be on the road to discovering what did happen,” Mr. Abbott was quoted by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation as saying.
正在访问巴布亚新几内亚的澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)周日表示，中国提供的新图像与他上周四在议会公布的图像一致。澳大利亚广播公司(Australian Broadcasting Corporation)援引阿博特的话说， “很明显，我们现在有了一些非常可信的线索，我们可能走上了通往真相的道路，这种希望越来越大，但也只是希望。”
“It looks consistent with what the Australian picture shows,” said Sean O’Connor, a former United States Air Force intelligence officer who is a consultant to IHS Jane’s for imagery analysis, after comparing the pictures released by both governments. Currents may have pushed the object to a new location during the intervening period, he said.
前美国空军( United States Air Force)情报官员、简氏信息集团(IHS Jane's)图像分析顾问肖恩·奥康纳(Sean O'Connor)对比了中澳两国政府公布的图片，随后表示，”看起来，这与澳大利亚提供的图像一致。”他表示，在此期间，洋流可能已经将物体推到了别的地方。
The coordinates provided with the Chinese satellite images are consistent with the location of the last recorded “ping” that Inmarsat, a satellite communications company, detected from the missing plane, according to a person familiar with the coordinates that Inmarsat submitted to Malaysian investigators. Inmarsat declined to comment.
卫星通讯公司Inmarsat侦测到了失联飞机最后发出的“脉冲”信号，并将信号坐标交给了马来西亚的调查人员。据了解该坐标的人士透露，中国卫星图像提供的坐标与Inmarsat探测到的的位置相符。Inmarsat公司拒绝置评。
Flight 370 was about 40 minutes into a six-hour flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing when it stopped communicating with air traffic controllers and changed course. On board were 239 people, including two infants.
370航班原定从吉隆坡飞往北京，航程六个小时。该飞机在起飞约40分钟后停止了与空中交通管理人员的通讯，并且改变了航向。飞机上共有239人，其中包括两名婴儿。
Signals that the plane transmitted to a satellite — the last one at 8:11 a.m., more than seven hours after the jet took off — allowed investigators to say that the plane took one of two broad paths, one south to the current focus of search operations or the other north across the Asian continent.
飞机向卫星传送的信号——最后一次传送的时间是上午8:11分，也就是飞机起飞七个多小时以后——使得调查人员确定，飞机曾沿着两条广阔路径中的一条飞行，一条向南延伸至目前的搜索中心，另一条向北穿过亚洲大陆。
On Saturday, Hishammuddin Hussein, the defense minister of Malaysia, said that seven countries — China, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Myanmar and Pakistan — had seen nothing to suggest the plane took the north route.
上周六，马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)表示，七个国家——中国、印度、哈萨克斯坦、吉尔吉斯斯坦、老挝、缅甸和巴基斯坦——都没有发现飞机曾沿北部航线飞行的迹象。
“Based on preliminary analysis, there have been no sightings of the aircraft on their radars,” he said at a news conference.
他在一场新闻发布会上表示，“初步分析结果显示，它们的雷达没有发现飞机。”
More than two dozen countries are on the hunt from land, air, space and sea for any visible sign of the plane. Investigators from law enforcement and aviation safety agencies around the globe have combed through the backgrounds of all the passengers, and so far have revealed no potential suspects. The Malaysian police are investigating the backgrounds of the plane’s pilot and first officer. So far, there is no proof that the plane’s disappearance was caused by human intervention, nor is there any conclusive evidence that it was caused by a mechanical malfunction or an onboard accident, such as an electrical fire.
现在已有逾二十五个国家在陆、海、空及太空中寻找飞机的可见痕迹。全球各地执法部门及航空安全部门的调查人员已经核查了所有乘客的背景信息，到目前还没有公布任何潜在嫌疑人。马来西亚警方正在对飞机机长及副机长进行背景调查。到目前为止，没有证据表明飞机失联是人为干预所致，也没有确凿证据表明飞机失联是机械故障或电气火灾等飞机事故所致。
Locating the wreckage of the missing aircraft and, most important, the black box that recorded information about its operations during its final hours, would be crucial to determining what happened on Flight 370, said Simon Bennett, director of the Civil Safety and Security Unit at the University of Leicester in Britain.
英国莱斯特大学(University of Leicester)公民安全与保障课程(Civil Safety and Security Unit)负责人西蒙·贝内特(Simon Bennett)表示，要判定370航班的遭遇，关键在于确定失联飞机残骸的位置，最重要的是确定黑匣子的位置，黑匣子会记录飞机在最后时间里的操作信息。
“In all likelihood, we may never ascertain what happened to MH370, which is a real shame, because then the speculation will simply accelerate and mount up,” he said. “What actually needs to happen is that we need to find the hull, find the flight recorders, and then carefully deconstruct what happened. But in the middle of all that is this blizzard of insane conjecture.”
“十有八九，我们可能永远都确定不了MH370航班的遭遇，这是个极大的遗憾，因为这样一来，猜测就会甚嚣尘上，”他说。“我们最需要做的事情是找到机身，找到飞行记录器，然后仔细解析事情经过。然而，这些铺天盖地的疯狂猜想却在从中作梗。”