BEIJING — The meeting between President Xi Jinping of China and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan lasted only 25 minutes, less than half the time usually given to formal encounters between the leaders of two nations. The names of the tiny islands in the East China Sea that are at the core of their frosty relationship did not pass their lips.
北京——中国国家主席习近平与日本首相安倍晋三的会晤只持续了25分钟，还不到通常安排给国家元首正式见面时长的一半。关于那几个处于中日矛盾核心的东海小岛，双方只字未提。
The two leaders tried a new beginning on Monday at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, but the atmosphere could hardly have been cooler. Their countries’ flags, often the backdrop for such diplomatic meetings, were conspicuously absent, lest they convey an impression of amity.
两位领导人周一在北京人民大会堂尝试着重新接触，但会面的气氛却再冷不过了。通常为这种外交会面做背景的各自国家的国旗引人注目地没有出现，以免它们传达一种友好的印象。
And the body language? At the outset of the meeting, before they were seated, Mr. Abe spoke to Mr. Xi. The cameras caught the Chinese leader listening but not answering, turning instead for the photographers to snap an awkward, less than enthusiastic handshake.
再说肢体语言。在会议刚开始、他们就座之前，安倍晋三开口对习近平说了什么。摄像机镜头扑捉到中国领导人在听，但没有回答，而是转头对着摄影师让他们拍下尴尬且不怎么热情的握手照片。
The long-awaited encounter came three days after the two countries agreed to a formal document in which they recognized their differing positions on the East China Sea, including on the waters around the islands known as the Diaoyu in China and the Senkaku in Japan.
在此次期待已久的短暂会晤三天前，两国签署了正式文件，承认各自对东海问题有不同立场，包括在被中国称为钓鱼岛、被日本称为尖阁诸岛附近的海域。
The two sides said that “following the spirit of squaring history” — an oblique reference to Japan’s brutal occupation of parts of China during World War II— they would seek to overcome the problems in the relationship.
双方表示要本着“正视历史、面向未来”的精神，寻求克服影响两国关系的问题，这是对日本在二战期间野蛮占领中国部分领土的转弯抹角的说法。
The meeting on Monday was not intended to deliver any substantive progress on territorial and historical issues that have brought the two richest countries in Asia close to conflict and inflamed nationalist sentiments, officials from both sides said.
双方官员表示，周一的会面不是为了解决领土和历史问题做出任何实质性进展，这些问题让亚洲这两个最富有的国家处于冲突的边缘，激发了国内的民族主义情绪。
But Mr. Abe, who appears to have done most of the talking during the limited time given, asked for the early installation of a hotline that could help defuse possible clashes between Chinese and Japanese vessels in waters around the islands, said Kuni Sato, the press secretary for the Japanese Foreign Ministry.
据日本外务省新闻官佐藤地(Kuni Sato)说，在有限的会谈时间中，安倍似乎讲话较多。他提出尽早建立热线，以便避免在争议岛屿附近海域中两国船只发生摩擦。
In general, Ms. Sato said, Mr. Abe told Mr. Xi that China and Japan should explore a relationship that was based on strong economic cooperation, better relations in the East China Sea and stability in East Asia.
佐藤地说，安倍向习近平表示，总地来说，中日应该探索建立新型关系，以经济合作、东海上的关系改善，以及东亚稳定为基础。
Mr. Abe talked about the need to curb Ebola, and about cooperation on dealing with North Korea. He also squeezed in, as an example of cultural exchange, a mention of his attendance last month at a Chinese ballet company’s performance in Tokyo, according to Ms. Sato.
安倍还谈到遏制埃博拉的必要性，以及合作应对朝鲜的问题。据佐藤地说，安倍还不忘提及上个月在东京观看了一场中国芭蕾舞团的表演，作为两国文化交流的例子。
Mr. Xi had refused to consider a face-to-face meeting since becoming president in March 2013, but Mr. Abe, who was elected at the end of 2012, publicly requested the encounter in the past few months. Japanese diplomats were sent to Beijing to arrange the meeting and to complete the accord released on Friday, which was intended as a basis for better relations.
自从2013年3月出任国家主席以来，习近平一直拒绝考虑面对面的会晤，但在过去几个月中，安倍晋三公开提出希望会面，安倍是在2012年底当选首相的。日本派外交官前往北京安排会晤，并达成了上周五公布的协议，协议的目的是给更好的关系奠定基础。
The Chinese, as hosts of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum that opened on Monday, realized they could not snub Mr. Abe during the summit meeting, and they agreed to the encounter, Chinese officials said. President Obama arrived in Beijing for the forum on Monday morning.
作为上周一召开的亚太经合组织论坛的东道主，中国认识到，在首脑会议期间，他们不能不理会安倍晋三，所以他们同意会晤，中国官员说。美国总统奥巴马在周一上午抵达北京，前来参加论坛。
That Mr. Xi and Mr. Abe met gives a “kickoff” to what could be an exceedingly long process of discussions over the future of the uninhabited islands, and over the disagreements over Japanese repentance for atrocities in China during the war, said Yang Xiyu, a senior fellow at the China Institute of International Studies and a former Chinese diplomat.
中国国际问题研究所高级研究员、前外交官杨西纡说，习近平与安倍晋三的会晤，为一个可能将是极其漫长的对话过程提供了一个“开端”，对话旨在讨论那几个无人居住小岛的未来，以及在日本忏悔其在战争期间对中国的暴行问题上存在的分歧。
“The gaps between the two sides are too big to handle, let alone narrow,” in such a meeting between the two leaders, Mr. Yang said.
杨西纡说，“双方差距过大，根本无法调和，更不用说”在两国领导人的这种会晤上“缩小差距了”。
Since taking control of the islands from the United States in 1972, Japan has consistently refused to concede that there is any dispute over sovereignty. China says the islands were taken from it by Japan at the end of the 19th century.
自从1972年从美国人手中接管了岛屿的控制权以来，日本一直拒绝承认岛屿的主权有争议。中国称这些岛屿是日本在19世纪末从中国夺走的。
On the question of what China sees as Japan’s lack of repentance for its occupation of China, Mr. Togo of Kyoto Sangyo University said it would be impossible for Mr. Abe to announce publicly that he would not visit the Yasukuni Shrine, a site in central Tokyo that honors the nation’s war dead, including convicted war criminals. Such a pledge would antagonize his conservative political base.
就什么是中国认为日本对占领中国缺乏忏悔的表现而言，京都产业大学的东乡和彦说，不可能让安倍晋三公开宣布，他不会去参拜靖国神社，在那个位于东京中心区的地方供奉着日本的战亡者，包括被判有罪的战犯。这种承诺会激怒他的保守派政治基础。
“Abe cannot say he will not go, but it doesn’t mean he will go,” Mr. Togo said.
“安倍晋三不能说他不会去，但这并不意味着他会去，”东乡和彦说。
Some Japanese analysts said they believed that Mr. Abe’s visit to the shrine in December of last year was sufficient to satisfy his domestic constituency, allowing the prime minister to focus on developing a modicum of a working relationship with China.
一些日本分析师表示，他们认为安倍晋三已在去年12月参拜了靖国神社，这足以满足他的国内支持者，让他可以把注意力转移到与中国发展一点合作关系上。