In the past few months, Republicans have called Wendy Davis, a Democratic candidate for Texas governor, “Abortion Barbie,” likened Alison Lundergan Grimes, a Senate candidate from Kentucky, to an “empty dress,” criticized Hillary Rodham Clinton’s thighs, and referred to a pregnant woman as a “host.”
过去几个月里，共和党人称呼德克萨斯州州长民主党候选人温迪·戴维斯(Wendy Davis)为“堕胎芭比”、把来自肯塔基州的参议员候选人艾莉森·卢德甘·格里梅斯(Alison Lundergan Grimes)比作“花瓶”、苛责希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿( Hillary Rodham Clinton)的大腿，还把一名孕妇称作“寄主”。
Democrats do not just get mad when they hear those words. They cash in.
听到这些话之后，民主党不光大发雷霆，而且还从中得利。
In fact, they are trying to find even more examples by tracking Republican opponents, their surrogates and conservative news media personalities, then blasting their comments out to supporters to build voter lists and drum up donations, casting aside the well-worn advice to shrug off sexist comments lest they draw attention to gender over issues.
实际上，他们抛开了一条老生常谈的建议——不要理会性别歧视评论，以免它们让人们的注意力从问题转向性别——转而努力寻找更多的类似例子，方法则是密切关注共和党对手、他们的代理人以保守的媒体名流，再把这些人的言论公布给支持者，以便争取选民和捐款。
It is proving effective. Emily’s List, the political action committee that backs female candidates who support abortion rights, has raised a record $25 million this election cycle. On Tuesday, the group put out an online petition, “Tell the GOP: Pregnant Women Are Not ‘Hosts,’ ” after Steve Martin, a state senator in Virginia, referred to a pregnant woman as the child’s “host” in a Facebook message.
事实证明，这一招很有效。在这个选举周期里，为支持堕胎权的女性候选人做后盾的政治行动委员会埃米莉名单(Emily’s List)已经募集到了创纪录的2500万美元（约合1.53亿元人民币）。在弗吉尼亚州州参议员史蒂夫·马丁(Steve Martin)在Facebook帖子中把一名孕妇称作孩子的“寄主”之后，该组织于周二发起了网上请愿：“告诉共和党：孕妇不是‘寄主’。”
“Instead of fearing sexist attacks, we wait gleefully for the next one,” said Jen Bluestein, a political strategist who formerly ran communications at Emily’s List.
“我们不但不害怕性别歧视攻击，而且开心地等着下一次攻击，”曾在埃米莉名单负责联络事宜的政治策略师珍·布卢斯坦(Jen Bluestein)说。
Republicans are trying to counter with their own war over the so-called war on women, saying that sexist attacks cut across parties and pointing to Democrats’ criticism of Sarah Palin and other conservative women. “They’re exploiting women for their political gain and political playbook,” said Brook Hougesen, a spokeswoman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee.
共和党正试图用自己的战争来压下这场所谓的针对女性的战争，称各党都存在性别歧视攻击，并指出了民主党人对莎拉·佩林(Sarah Palin)和其他一些保守派女性的指责。“他们正在利用女性谋取政治利益，把女性作为政治策略的棋子，”共和党参议院全国委员会(National Republican Senatorial Committee)女发言人布鲁克·霍格森(Brook Hougesen)说。
Republicans say that promoting these types of comments is part of a broader Democratic strategy to portray them as out of touch with women in an effort to shift the focus from unpopular issues associated with the Obama administration.
共和党人称，散布这类评论是民主党一项更广泛的战略的一部分，该战略的目的是给共和党人扣上疏离女性的帽子，好让公众的焦点离开与奥巴马政府有关的难堪问题。
“I’m more than just a set of reproductive organs and I’d like someone to talk to me about how they’ll help my pocketbook and keep my health care plan that I like, and Democrats don’t have a good response to that,” said Katie Packer Gage, deputy campaign manager for Mitt Romney in 2012 who recently started a consultancy to advise Republican candidates about outreach to women. “If I were them, I’d want to turn it into ‘Abortion Barbie,’ too.”
“我不仅仅是一套生殖器官，我希望有人跟我谈论，他们会如何帮我改善经济状况，让我维持自己喜欢的医疗保健计划，然而，民主党人并没有给我一个很好的回应，”曾在2012年担任米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)竞选活动副主管的凯蒂·帕克·盖奇(Katie Packer Gage)说，“如果我是他们，我也愿意把它变成‘堕胎芭比’。”前不久，盖奇开始就如何吸引女性选民为共和党出谋划策。
The turnout among female voters could sway the most significant races this year because, although they outnumber men, women do not vote in midterm elections in the same proportion as in presidential contests. In 2010, 51 percent of female voters chose Republicans, helping the party regain a majority in the House of Representatives. In 2012, women favored Democrats, with 55 percent voting to re-elect President Obama, compared with 44 percent for Mr. Romney.
女性选民的投票率可能会左右今年最重要的一些竞选，这是因为女性选民的人数虽然比男性多，她们在中期选举当中的投票分布比例却与在总统选举当中的投票分布比例不一样。2010年，有51%的女性选民选择了共和党人，帮助共和党重新获得了众议院的大多数席位。2012年，女性比较支持民主党，其中有55%的人把票投给了竞选连任的奥巴马总统，只有44%的人投票支持罗姆尼。
How female candidates deal with attacks also has implications beyond 2014, particularly if Mrs. Clinton were to run for president in 2016.
女性候选人应对攻击的方式也将对2014年以后的事情产生影响，如果克林顿选择参加2016年的总统竞选，情况就更是如此。
In August, Ready for Hillary, a “super PAC” that supports a Clinton candidacy, sent out an email after the Hillary Project, an anti-Clinton PAC, released an online game “that allows viewers to virtually slap the former secretary of state across the face.” Adam Parkhomenko, executive director of Ready for Hillary, promptly pleaded online for donations. “Instead of getting mad, we should get organized,” he wrote. “That’s why I hope you’ll make a contribution today.” The attack led to a 40 percent uptick in web traffic and online contributions to Ready for Hillary compared with its normal daily average.
在反克林顿的超级政治行动委员会（super PAC，简称“超级PAC”）“希拉里工程”(Hillary Project)发布了一款“允许观看者以虚拟方式扇前国务卿耳光”的网络游戏后，支持克林顿竞选的PAC“万事俱备，希拉里”(Ready for Hillary)于8月发出了一封电子邮件。“万事俱备，希拉里”的执行理事亚当·帕尔霍缅科(Adam Parkhomenko)立即在网上请求募捐。“我们不要生气，要组织起来，”他写道，“这就是我希望你们在今天提供捐赠的原因。”此次攻击使“万事俱备，希拉里”的网络流量和网上募捐总额比正常的日平均数增加了40%。
Traditional wisdom held that a candidate responding directly could seem abrasive, said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster. In 2010, Ms. Lake published a study called “Name It. Change It.” that found sexist attacks on a hypothetical female candidate decreased the likelihood of men and women voting for that candidate. But a direct response, rather than making matters worse, made up for that lost ground, and in some cases damaged her male opponent.
民主党民意调查专家塞琳达·莱克(Celinda Lake)说，传统观点认为，如果候选人进行直接回应，看起来就会有些唐突。2010年，莱克发表了一份名为“指出它。改变它。”(Name It. Change It.)的研究。该研究发现，假如一名女性候选人受到了性别歧视攻击，男女选民投票给这名候选人的可能性就会降低。但是，直接回应不但不会让事情变得更糟，反而会起到挽回失地的作用，有时还会对她的男性对手造成损害。
The findings were melded into campaign strategy, and by 2012 the approach grew into a fund-raising tool.“It comes down to your ability to not just ride the wave, but create the wave,” said Marie Danzig, deputy digital director for Mr. Obama’s 2012 campaign and head of creative and delivery at Blue State Digital, which works with Emily’s List.
这些发现已被纳入竞选策略，2012年，该策略还发展成了一种筹集资金的工具。“归根结底，这不仅取决于你驾驭风浪的能力，还取决于你兴风作浪的本事，”奥巴马2012年竞选的副数码主管、蓝州数码(Blue State Digital)创意和执行部门负责人玛丽·丹齐克(Marie Danzig)说。这家公司是艾米莉名单(Emily’s List)的合作伙伴。
Both sides agree there’s a tension between capitalizing on a comment because it might raise money and spreading a stereotype, and in many ways 2014 will be a testing ground as to where that line should be drawn. “I think you need to be careful about being too shrill on these matters and understanding what will resonate with your audience,” Ms. Danzig said. “For every ‘legitimate rape’ hit, there are others that don’t go anywhere.”
双方一致认为，因某条言论可能筹得资金而对其加以利用的做法，有可能成为传播陈腔滥调的行为，两者之间的分寸需要拿捏。从许多方面来看，2014年都将成为一片试验场，测试应该在哪里划定这条界线。“我认为你们要小心，不要在这些事情上太过尖锐，还要懂得什么才能打动听众，”丹齐克说。“赶上‘合法强奸’这样可资利用的火爆言论的同时，你总会赶上其他一些根本起不到任何作用的言论。”