WASHINGTON — Republicans entered the final weekend before the midterm elections clearly holding the better hand to control the Senate and poised to add to their House majority. But a decidedly sour electorate and a sizable number of undecided voters added a measure of suspense.
华盛顿——中期选举之前的最后一个周末，共和党人明显握有更好的机会掌控参议院，并且准备好增加在众议院的优势。不过，选民群体显然心怀怨恨，而且尚有相当规模的选民摇摆不定。这给选举结果增加了一丝悬念。
The final drama surrounded the Senate, which has been a Democratic bulwark for President Obama since his party lost its House majority in 2010. Republicans need to gain six seats to seize the Senate, and officials in both parties believe there is a path for them to win at least that many.
最后的跌宕起伏围绕着参议院展开。自从民主党2010年失去众议院多数党的地位后，参议院一直是奥巴马总统的坚强堡垒。要想控制参议院，共和党需要净挣六席，而两党领导层均相信，赢得至少这个数量的席位的途径是存在的。
Yet the races for a number of seats that will decide the majority remained close, polls showed, prompting Republicans to pour additional money into get-out-the-vote efforts in Alaska, Georgia and Iowa. Democrats were doing the same in Colorado, where they were concerned because groups that tend to favor Republicans voted early in large numbers, and in Iowa.
然而，民调显示，将会决定哪方成为多数党的多场选战始终难解难分。这使得共和党又追加了大量资金到阿拉斯加、乔治亚和艾奥瓦三州的投票动员活动中。民主党也大把撒钱到艾奥瓦和科罗拉多两州。由于科罗拉多州倾向于共和党的团体大量提前投票，民主党忧心忡忡。
While an air of mystery hung over no fewer than nine Senate races, the only question surrounding the House was how many seats Republicans would add. If they gain a dozen seats, it will give them an advantage not seen since 1948 and potentially consign the Democrats to minority status until congressional redistricting in the 2020s.
在参议院的选举中，有至少九个席位被悬念笼罩。与此同时，围绕着众议院的唯一问题则是，共和党究竟能增加多少席位？假如他们能净增十多个席位，就能拥有1948年以来的最大优势，并可能将民主党一直钉在少数党的位子上，直到进入20年代后重新划分国会选区。
In a sign of a worsening climate, Democratic officials shifted money to incumbents in once-safe districts around Las Vegas and Santa Barbara, Calif. And over the weekend, they put more money toward television ads in districts held by Democrats in Iowa and Minnesota, including that of longtime Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota. Though there are fewer competitive House seats than in past elections because of gerrymandering, party strategists were still airing ads in 40 districts.
显示出形势进一步恶化的迹象是，民主党领导层将资金投向了拉斯维加斯和加州圣巴巴拉一带曾经相当稳固的现任民主党议员的选区。此外，周末期间，他们在艾奥瓦和明尼苏达两州目前由本党控制的选区中追加了电视广告方面的经费投入，包括在众议员科林·C·彼得森(Collin C. Peterson)长期占据席位的一个明尼苏达选区。由于选区划分受到操控，本次选举中竞争激烈的众议院席位有所减少。尽管如此，两党策略师还是在40个选区中大打广播电视广告。
“It’s a grim environment,” said Representative Steve Israel of New York, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Mr. Israel was spending the weekend pleading with his caucus to contribute to imperiled colleagues to minimize losses. Trying to soften the blow, he noted that losses were expected: The party in control of the White House has lost an average of 29 seats in midterm elections in the last century.
“环境恶劣，”民主党国会竞选委员会(Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee)主席、来自纽约州的众议员史蒂夫·伊斯雷尔(Steve Israel)说。整个周末期间，伊斯雷尔都在请求本党议员对陷入困境的同僚伸出援手，以将损失降至最低限度。为了尽力缓和冲击，他指出席位减少是预料之中的事情：过去100年中，入主白宫的政党要在中期选举中平均丢掉29个席位。
Just two years after he won a second term by a commanding margin, Mr. Obama has kept his distance from the most pivotal congressional races. On Saturday, he was to address a heavily African-American crowd in Detroit to bolster Michigan’s Democratic nominee for governor.
就在两年前，奥巴马以压倒性优势赢得连任竞选。这一次，他却一直与最关键的国会选战保持距离。上周六，他的计划是在底特律面向大多为非洲裔的观众讲话，以支持密歇根的民主党州长候选人。
Senate Republicans are confident. A senior party official called Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, on Saturday at his Louisville home and, after running through voting projections, told Mr. McConnell that he would be the next majority leader. Mr. McConnell’s initial reaction was only a long pause.
参议院的共和党人则是信心十足。周六，一名党内高级官员致电身处肯塔基州路易斯维尔大本营的参议院少数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)，并在细数所有投票预测后告诉他，他将成为下任多数党领袖。麦康奈尔的第一反应是长时间的沉默。
Republican hopes were lifted by a new Des Moines Register poll Saturday showing Joni Ernst, their Iowa Senate nominee, taking a seven-point lead in a race for a Democratic-held seat. Yet, the lead is within the poll’s margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
共和党的希望因艾奥瓦州的一则好消息得到了提升。周六公布的《得梅因纪事报》(Des Moines Register)新民调显示，在该州目前由民主党占据的一个联邦参议院席位竞争中，共和党候选人约尼·厄恩斯特(Joni Ernst)拥有7个百分点的领先优势。然而，这一优势尚处于此次民调正负4个百分点取样误差的范围内。
But Republicans conceded that voters were hardly embracing them. “It’s not as though people have all a sudden fallen in love with Republicans,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the second-ranking Senate Republican. “It’s just a loss of confidence in the administration. It’s national security, personal security and job security. People are on edge. And that’s not good if you’re the party in power.”
不过，共和党人承认，选民很难说是在热烈支持他们。“并不是说，人们突然之间就爱上共和党了，”参议院中的共和党二号人物、来自德克萨斯州的约翰·科宁(John Cornyn)说。“这不过是对奥巴马政府丧失了信心。国家安全、个人安危和工作保障叠加在一起。民众相当不安。对执政党来说，这并不是好兆头。”
Other Republicans were restrained in their predictions for Tuesday, given the large number of undecided voters in key Senate races, growing questions about the reliability of polling and respect for the Democrats’ ability to turn out voters.
其他一些共和党人对周二的选举结果持较为谨慎的态度。理由包括，在关键的参议院选举中，还有大量尚未拿定主意的选民；民调的可靠性越来越受到质疑；以及民主党拥有值得倾佩的调动选民投票的能力。
“We have seen how money, big data and enhanced turnout operations can impact the actual result compared to a poll, but I believe the Democrats will largely lose the Romney states in play and lose the Senate,” said Bill McInturff, a longtime Republican pollster.
“我们已经看到钞票、大数据和强大的投票动员活动能够怎样让实际的投票结果与民调不一致，不过我相信，民主党人将基本上输掉当年支持罗姆尼的那些州里的激烈选战，并且会失去参议院控制权，”共和党资深民调专家比尔·麦金塔夫(Bill McInturff)说。
The National Republican Senatorial Committee held a conference call Friday with lawyers and aides to candidates in close races to discuss potential recounts. It will have a chartered jet waiting on Tuesday to fly wherever a contest is close enough to be disputed.
周五，共和党参议院全国委员会(National Republican Senatorial Committee)与律师及选情激烈的候选人的幕僚召开电话会议，商讨可能出现的重新计票情景。委员会将包下一架飞机周二候命，随时准备飞往投票结果激烈到可以进行抗争的地区。
Democrats said they hoped the uncertainty would resolve in their favor. “In most elections, by two days beforehand, you can sort of tell what’s going to happen; you can feel the winds blowing,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. “This one is real close, and there are countervailing forces on both sides.”
民主党人表示，他们希望这种不确定性将以他们获得青睐告终。“在多数选举中，离投票还有两天的时候，你多少是知道会发生什么的；你能感到风在往哪边吹，”来自纽约州的民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)说。“这一回是非常接近，双方都面临一些互相矛盾的力量。”
That was evident in the races for governor as well, with Republicans on the offensive in some liberal states but struggling to defend some of their incumbents in conservative-leaning states.
在州长竞选中，这一点也颇为明显。共和党在倾向自由派的一些州里势头良好，却在保住倾向保守派的州里的一些现任州长上苦苦挣扎。
With only 27 percent of Americans saying the country is headed in the right direction, according to a CBS News poll released last week, voters are in an angst-ridden mood that is cutting against the Democrats.
CBS新闻频道上周公布的民调显示，仅有27%的应答者表示美国正走在正确的道路上。因此，选民正处于一种对民主党不利的焦虑情绪中。
Keith Wilson, 59, a Republican from suburban Denver who said he had sometimes supported Democrats, has already sent in his ballot. He voted for the Republicans and said he viewed the election as a referendum on the White House.
59岁的共和党人基思·威尔逊(Keith Wilson)来自丹佛城郊，自称有时会支持民主党人。他这次已提前投票，选的是共和党人。他说，自己将本次选举看作对白宫的公投。
“It’s a real nervous time that we’re having,” Mr. Wilson said, ticking off the country’s problems and skewering the president. “It’s like everything is a reaction, instead of pro-action.” But as he sat at a Denver cafe, he made it clear that his vote was no endorsement of the Republicans. “I took the best of the two evils,” he said.
“我们现在提心吊胆，”坐在丹佛一家咖啡馆里的威尔逊说。他历数了美国面临的困难，并对总统大加斥责。“好像每回都是事后反应，而不是事先行动。”不过，他也清楚表明，自己投下的票并非是对共和党的支持。“两害相权取其轻，”他说。
Representative David E. Price, Democrat of North Carolina and a political scientist, said: “People aren’t yet feeling economically secure. And you pile onto that this incredible list of international crises and the concerted Republican effort to hang those problems around the president’s neck, and you have your explanation.”
政治学专业出身的北卡罗来纳州民主党众议员戴维·E·普莱斯(David E. Price)说：“民众还没觉得经济上有了保障。再加上一长串的国际危机，共和党又在齐心协力把这些问题栽到总统身上，这就不难解释了。”
In their closing ads, some Republicans sought to leverage this unease.
在冲刺阶段的广告中，一些共和党人寻求利用这种不安情绪。
David Perdue, the Republican candidate for the open Senate seat in Georgia, sought to link his opponent, Michelle Nunn, to Mr. Obama with an ad showing them together below an image of people in hazmat suits. A narrator warned of “terrorism and Ebola coming at us from overseas.”
在乔治亚州，一名即将退休的联邦参议员空出了席位。共和党候选人戴维·珀杜(David Perdue)试图将民主党对手米歇尔·纳恩(Michelle Nunn)与奥巴马绑到一起，播放了一则显示二者并肩出现的广告，而他们的上方是民众身着防护服的画面。旁白警告，“恐怖主义和埃博拉正从海外向我们袭来。”
The Georgia race illustrates why Republicans’ prospects for taking over the Senate are good, but not certain. While Ms. Nunn has run a strong race, the seat — held by Senator Saxby Chambliss, a Republican who is retiring — is likely to be decided in a January runoff, as neither she nor Mr. Perdue is expected to receive a majority on Tuesday.
乔治亚州的选战证明，为什么说共和党接管参议院的前景颇为光明，但并非板上钉钉。该州的这一联邦参议院席位目前由共和党人萨克斯比·钱布利斯(Saxby Chambliss)占据，但他即将退休。纳恩的竞选相当有力，外界预计她和珀杜均不能在周二赢得半数选票，因此这一席位很可能要在明年1月通过第二轮投票决出。
But as the two parties prepared for their final push, thousands of votes had already been cast. In Morrow, Ga., an Atlanta suburb, Alonzo Jackson said Friday afternoon that weeks of radio ads and a sense of history had helped him “commit.” He voted for Democrats.
随着两党为最后的冲刺摩拳擦掌，成千上万的选民已提前投票。在乔治亚州亚特兰大城郊的莫罗，阿朗佐·杰克逊(Alonzo Jackson)周五下午表示，多个星期的电台广告和历史感帮他“定夺”了。他投给了民主党人。