HONG KONG — Japan and China do not always see eye to eye on politics. But when it comes to economic policy, Tokyo and Beijing have remarkably similar goals: Both want to push through far-reaching changes in their economies in the face of mounting debt and rapidly graying populations.
香港——在政治上，日本与中国并非总是意见一致。但是，在经济政策方面，东京和北京却有着非常相似的目标：面对债台高筑和人口迅速老龄化的问题，它们都想推动可以带来深远影响的国内经济转型。
In China, the authorities are trying to steer the economy toward more domestic consumption and growth in the service sector. In Japan, the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is trying to haul the economy out of years of deflation and lethargic growth.
中国政府正在尝试把经济重心转移到扩大国内消费和发展服务业上。日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的政府也正在努力把经济拖出多年通货紧缩和增长乏力的泥潭。
To what extent each country succeeds will be of critical importance, not just to Asia, but to the world. China, with a gross domestic product of about $9 trillion last year, and Japan, with its $5 trillion economy, are the second- and third-largest economies in the world, after the United States. Much hinges on whether these economic powerhouses can succeed in their overhauls over the next few years.
中国和日本将在这方面取得何种程度的成功，不仅对亚洲是一件至关重要的大事，对全世界来说也是如此。中国去年的国内生产总值(GDP)约为9万亿美元（约合56万亿元人民币），日本则为5万亿美元，分别是全球第二大和第三大经济体，仅居美国之后。很多事情都有赖于这两个经济强国能否在未来几年内转型成功。
“You have two of the largest economies in the world firing on just one cylinder,” said Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asian economics at HSBC. “This is a critical period.”
“全球最大经济体中的两个，都只剩一个气缸驱动了，”汇丰银行(HSBC)亚洲经济研究部门的联合负责人范力民(Frederic Neumann)称，“这段时期非常关键。”
Analysts and business people have welcomed the changes that have been introduced or at least announced in China and Japan over the past 18 months.
中国和日本过去18个月已经出台或至少宣布要采取转变举措，这受到了分析人士和商业界的欢迎。
But faster growth is tough to achieve, and much of the hard work is yet to come.
但要实现更快的增长十分困难，很多的艰苦工作还在后面。
In China, statistics show that the economy grew 7.4 percent year-on-year in the first quarter — down from 7.7 percent in the last quarter of 2013.
中国的统计数据显示，第一季度经济同比增长7.4%，较2013年第四季度的7.7%有所下降。
And in Japan, a sharp drop in economic expectations among supermarket managers and restaurant workers, in a gauge released last week, hinted at worsening business conditions in coming months. The central bank refrained from stepping up its economic stimulus efforts this month but may need to do so later this year to help offset a slowdown in consumer spending that is expected to set in after a sales tax increase came into effect at the start of the month.
日本上周公布的数据中，超市经理和餐馆工作人员对经济的预期出现急剧下降，预示未来几个月商业环境将会恶化。日本央行没有从本月就开始加大刺激经济的力度，但今年晚些时候可能需要这样做，从而帮助缓解消费支出降低的影响。因为销售税上调措施本月初生效后，消费支出的料将下降。
What is more, analysts say, both Beijing and Tokyo now have to move beyond simply pump-priming their economies with cheap money, as they did after the global financial crisis. They now face the tougher challenge of making their economies and business environments more efficient and competitive.
分析人士说，更重要的是，北京和东京现在必须超越单纯靠注入廉价货币，来刺激本国经济的做法，两国在全球金融危机后都曾这样做。两国现在面临着一个更艰巨的挑战：提升本国经济和商业环境的效率和竞争力。
“For both China and Japan, the problems are deep-seated and structural,” said Rob Subbaraman, an economist at Nomura in Singapore. “It’s not a case of being able to cut interest rates to stimulate growth — they have to do more.”
“对于中国和日本，问题是深层次的、结构性的，”野村证券(Nomura)驻新加坡的经济师苏博文(Rob Subbaraman)说。“在这样的情况下，是不能靠降低利率来刺激经济增长的——两国必须做更多事情才行。”
In China, the leaders who took the helm last year have pledged to tackle corruption and environmental degradation. Thousands of companies have been ordered to cut down excess capacity. Taxes for small businesses have been cut. The renminbi has been given more leeway to fluctuate. Beijing has permitted several small defaults, sending a signal that it will not always bail out failed investments.
在中国，去年开始主持大局的领导人承诺，要解决腐败和环境恶化的问题。数以千计的企业已经接到了削减过剩产能的命令，小型企业承担的税负已经降低，人民币汇率的浮动空间有所扩大。北京还放手让市场上发生了几起小规模的债务违约事件，从而发送出这样一个信号：它并非总是会援助失败的投资行为。
The jury is still out on whether China can avoid a hard landing that could send ripples around the world.
至于中国能否避免可能波及全球的硬着陆，分析人士的看法仍然莫衷一是。
“The process is fraught with risks,” said Eswar Prasad, a professor at Cornell University and a former head of the International Monetary Fund’s China division. “Given how congealed the system is, if they introduce some economic risk, they risk unleashing a set of dynamics that could turn against them.”
“这个过程充满了风险，”国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的前中国事务主管、康奈尔大学(Cornell University)教授埃斯瓦尔·普拉萨德(Eswar Prasad)说。“由于中国的系统僵化程度较严重，如果引入一些经济风险，就可能产生一系列反应，结果可能不利于中国。”
He added: “The scale of the problems and the economy mean that it will be a tough balancing act.”
他还说：“从问题的规模和经济状况来看，中国要实现平衡非常艰难。”
With its much more advanced economy, Japan faces somewhat different issues, but the overhaul efforts are just as crucial to the country’s long-term economic prospects. The rapidly aging country needs to shake up restrictive labor laws and get more women into the work force.
日本的经济远比中国发达，它面临的问题也有所不同，但对于该国的长期经济前景而言，转变也同样重要。日本社会正在快速老龄化，它需要修改僵化的劳动法，并鼓励更多女性进入劳动力大军。
So far, the action in Japan has been mainly in the form of government spending plans and aggressive monetary stimulus.
到目前为止，日本的举措主要还是政府开支计划和激进的货币刺激政策。
This approach, begun last year, has helped push up growth and earnings at many Japanese companies. The Nikkei 225 stock index is nearly 70 percent higher than in November 2012, before hopes of an economic push began to take root.
日本从去年开始采取这样的手段，已经帮助许多日本企业实现了业绩和盈利的增长。日经225指数(Nikkei 225)较2012年11月上涨了近70%，之后人们开始对经济好转产生了希望。
But in Japan, as in China, much of the heavy lifting still remains to be done, and many analysts worry that the initial sugar rush to the Japanese economy could fizzle.
但是与中国一样，日本也有很多艰巨的任务有待完成，很多分析人士担心该国最初出现的高增长势头会变得虎头蛇尾。
“The aggressive quantitative easing and government spending plans were low-hanging fruit,” said David Mann, head of regional research in the Singapore office of Standard Chartered. Creating structural changes and making the service sector more efficient “will be much harder to do,” he said.
渣打银行(Standard Chartered)新加坡办公室的区域研究主管戴维·曼恩(David Mann)说，“实行激进的量化宽松政策和政府开支计划倒是容易”，但开展结构性转型，提升服务业的效率“就难得多了”。