TOKYO — In a small step toward a possible thaw in relations, officials from Japan and China on Thursday held their first meeting on security issues in four years, discussing the creation of a hotline to ease tensions in the East China Sea.
东京——周四，日本和中国的官员举行了四年来的首次安全事务会议，就通过创立热线来缓解东海紧张局势进行了讨论。此举朝两国关系解冻迈进了一小步。
It was the first meeting since January 2011 between defense officials and diplomats from the two Asian powers, which have been divided in recent years by emotional disputes over history and territory.
这是自2011年1月以来，两个亚洲大国的国防官员和外交官的首次会面。近年来，由于敏感的历史和领土纠纷，两国出现了分歧。
According to officials, a priority in the Tokyo talks was to find ways — like a hotline or a similar phone connection — to communicate with each other on short notice to avoid clashes at sea, or at least to prevent them from spiraling into a bigger conflict.
官员表示，东京谈话的重点是寻找办法——比如热线电话或者类似的电话连接——来及时与对方交流，以避免海上摩擦，或者至少防止这些摩擦演变为规模更大的冲突。
Preventing an accidental war has become a pressing issue as Chinese and Japanese armed ships and aircraft have frequently challenged each other near uninhabited islands in the East China Sea that are claimed by both nations. So far, these encounters have remained peaceful, but experts have warned that a single miscalculation could escalate into a military confrontation.
防止发生意外战争已经成了一个紧迫事件，这是因为中日两国的武装舰艇和飞机经常在东海无人居住的岛屿附近彼此挑衅。两国都声称对这些岛屿享有主权。迄今为止，这种接触都是和平性的，但专家曾警告称，一个失误就可以升级到军事冲突。
The officials also said they hoped that the meeting would help improve relations by getting both sides talking, and possibly opening the way for higher-level meetings like one in November between Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and President Xi Jinping of China.
官员们还表示，他们希望此次会晤可以促使双方开展交谈，可能还会为举办高层会议铺平道路，进而改善关系，比如日本首相安倍晋三和中国国家主席习近平在去年11月举行的会晤。
They said increased dialogue may also help dispel anxiety in Japan about China’s fast-growing military spending, which will rise by 10.1 percent this year. It may also allay concern in China about Mr. Abe’s commitment to 1990s apologies by Japan for its World War II-era invasion of China.
他们表示，加强对话或许还会帮助消除日本对中国快速增加的军费的忧虑，中国军费今年将增加10.1%。这或许还可以减轻中国方面的担忧，日本在20世纪90年代就其二战时期侵略中国的行为做出过道歉，而中国担心安倍晋三会推翻这一态度。
“It can be said that Japan-China relations appear to be advancing gradually through events” such as the summit meeting in November, Japan’s deputy foreign minister, Shinsuke Sugiyama, said Thursday.
日本副外务大臣杉山晋辅(Shinsuke Sugiyama)在周四表示，“可以这么说，日中关系似乎在通过各种活动慢慢推进，”比如去年11月的峰会。