WASHINGTON — The C.I.A. is paying AT&T more than $10 million a year to assist with overseas counterterrorism investigations by exploiting the company’s vast database of phone records, which includes Americans’ international calls, according to government officials.
华盛顿——据政府官员透露，中央情报局(CIA)目前每年支付美国电话电报公司(AT&T)逾1000万美元（约合6092万元人民币）的费用，利用该公司庞大的通话记录数据库协助海外反恐调查，其中包括美国人的国际通话记录。
The cooperation is conducted under a voluntary contract, not under subpoenas or court orders compelling the company to participate, according to the officials. The C.I.A. supplies phone numbers of overseas terrorism suspects, and AT&T searches its database and provides records of calls that may help identify foreign associates, the officials said. The company has a huge archive of data on phone calls, both foreign and domestic, that were handled by its network equipment, not just those of its own customers.
官员们透露，这种合作是依据自愿达成的合同进行的，CIA并没有通过发传票或法院命令迫使该公司参与。官员们还表示，CIA提供海外恐怖主义嫌犯的电话号码，AT&T则搜索自己的数据库，提供通话记录，这些记录可能有助于确认外国同伙的身份。该公司拥有庞大的国内外通话记录数据库，其中包括所有经由其网络设备处理的通话，不仅是该公司用户的通话。
The program adds a new dimension to the debate over government spying and the privacy of communications records, which has been focused on National Security Agency programs in recent months. The disclosure sheds further light on the ties between intelligence officials and communications service providers. And it shows how agencies beyond the N.S.A. use metadata — logs of the date, duration and phone numbers involved in a call, but not the content — to analyze links between people through programs regulated by an inconsistent patchwork of legal standards, procedures and oversight.
该项目为有关政府监控及通讯记录隐私的争论提供了新的内容，最近几个月，这一争论的焦点一直是美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的项目。CIA项目的曝光进一步揭露了情报官员与通讯服务供应商的关系，说明了NSA之外的机构如何通过一些项目利用元数据——有关通话日期、持续时间及电话号码的记录，而不是通话内容——来分析人与人之间的关系，规范这些项目的法律标准、程序及监督工作相互矛盾。
Because the C.I.A. is prohibited from spying on the domestic activities of Americans, the agency imposes privacy safeguards on the program, said the officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity because it is classified. Most of the call logs provided by AT&T involve foreign-to-foreign calls, but when the company produces records of international calls with one end in the United States, it does not disclose the identity of the Americans and “masks” several digits of their phone numbers, the officials said.
官员们称，CIA无权监控美国人的国内活动，因此就对该项目采取了隐私保护举措。由于涉及机密，这些官员要求匿名。上述官员表示，AT&T提供的大多数通话记录都是外国与外国之间的通话，但在提供涉及美国电话终端的国际通话记录时，该公司没有透露美国人的身份，并“遮掩了”电话号码中的几位数字。
Still, the agency can refer such masked numbers to the F.B.I., which can issue an administrative subpoena requiring AT&T to provide the uncensored data. The bureau handles any domestic investigation, but sometimes shares with the C.I.A. the information about the American participant in those calls, the officials said.
然而，CIA可以通过美国联邦调查局(FBI)获得这些经过遮掩的号码，因为FBI可以发出行政传票，要求AT&T提供未经遮掩的数据。官员们表示，FBI负责国内调查，有时也会与CIA共享美国通话者的信息。
Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the C.I.A., declined to confirm the program. But he said the agency’s intelligence collection activities were lawful and “subject to extensive oversight.”
CIA发言人迪安·博伊德(Dean Boyd)拒绝确认该项目的存在。但他表示，该机构的情报搜集行动是合法的，并“受到广泛的监督”。
“The C.I.A. protects the nation and upholds privacy rights of Americans by ensuring that its intelligence collection activities are focused on acquiring foreign intelligence and counterintelligence in accordance with U.S. laws,” he said. “The C.I.A. is expressly forbidden from undertaking intelligence collection activities inside the United States ‘for the purpose of acquiring information concerning the domestic activities of U.S. persons,’ and the C.I.A. does not do so.”
“CIA确保自身的情报收集活动符合美国法律，主要获取外国的情报及反情报信息，以此保护美国，维护美国人的隐私权，”他说。“CIA被明令禁止在美国开展‘以获取美国人国内活动信息为目的’的情报搜集行动，实际上也没有这样做。”
Mark Siegel, an AT&T spokesman, said: “We value our customers’ privacy and work hard to protect it by ensuring compliance with the law in all respects. We do not comment on questions concerning national security.”
AT&T发言人马克·西格尔(Mark Siegel)表示，“我们重视客户的隐私，并保证全面遵守法律，努力保护他们的隐私。我们不会回答有关国家安全的问题。”
The C.I.A. program appears to duplicate work performed by the N.S.A. But a senior American intelligence official, while declining to address whether the AT&T alliance exists, suggested that it would be rational for the C.I.A. to have its own program to check calling patterns linked to overseas terrorism suspects.
CIA的项目与NSA的工作似乎有重复之处。但一名美国高级情报官员表示，CIA自己开展项目核查与海外恐怖主义嫌犯有关联的通话模式，这是合情合理的。不过，这名官员拒绝透露AT&T是否在协助CIA工作。
With on-the-ground operatives abroad seeking to disrupt terrorist activities in “time-sensitive threat situations,” the official said, the C.I.A. requires “a certain speed, agility and tactical responsiveness that differs” from that of other agencies. “That need to act without delay is often best met when C.I.A. has developed its own capabilities to lawfully acquire necessary foreign intelligence information,” the official said.
这位官员称，CIA在海外有实地工作的特工，努力在“时间紧迫的危急情况下”阻止恐怖主义活动，有鉴于此，CIA需要“不同于”其他机构的“速度、灵敏度和战术响应能力”。这名官员说，“要满足及时行动的需要，最好的方法往往是让CIA自行发展出合法获取必要外国情报的能力。”
Since June, when documents leaked by the former N.S.A. contractor Edward J. Snowden began to surface, an international debate has erupted over the scope of N.S.A. surveillance and the agency’s relationships with American companies that operate networks or provide Internet communications services. Many of the companies have protested that they are legally compelled to cooperate. The AT&T-C.I.A. arrangement illustrates that such activities are not limited to the N.S.A., and that cooperation sometimes is voluntary.
6月份，前NSA承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的文件开始浮出水面，从那时开始，国际社会一直在就NSA的监控范围以及它与运营网络或提供互联网通讯服务的美国公司之间的关系进行辩论。许多公司都已表示抗议，称法律要求他们必须进行合作。AT&T和CIA的合作则表明，这种活动不限于NSA，公司的合作有时还是自愿的。
While officials in Washington are discussing whether to rein in the N.S.A. on American soil, governments in Europe are demanding more transparency from the companies and threatening greater restraints. AT&T is exploring a purchase of Vodafone, a European cellphone service provider, and European regulators and politicians have vowed to intensely scrutinize such a deal.
华盛顿的官员正在讨论是否要限制NSA在美国本土的活动，与此同时，欧洲各国政府都在要求相关公司增加透明度，并威胁要进行更严格的限制。AT&T正在尝试购买欧洲移动电话服务提供商沃达丰(Vodafone)，欧洲监管者和政客则已誓称，要加强此类交易的审查力度。
The history of the C.I.A. program remains murky. It began sometime before 2010, and was stopped at some point but then was resumed, according to the officials. They said the House and Senate Intelligence Committees had been briefed about it.
目前，CIA项目的历史仍不清楚。官员称，该项目始于2010年以前，曾一度停止，后来又得到恢复。他们说，参众两院的情报委员会(Intelligence Committee)都曾得到有关此项目的通报。
While the N.S.A. is separately vacuuming up call metadata abroad, most scrutiny in the United States has focused on its once-secret program that uses court orders to domestic phone companies under the Patriot Act to assemble a comprehensive database of Americans’ calls.
虽然NSA仍在单独收集海外的通话元数据，但美国的大部分检查都集中在其一度隐秘的一个项目之上。该项目以《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)为依据，利用法院命令来从国内电话公司那里收集美国电话的大量数据。
Some lawmakers have proposed modifying it to have the phone companies, not the N.S.A., control the data, similar to how the C.I.A. has been operating.
一些议员提议对它作出修改，以便让电话公司而非NSA来控制相关数据，这种做法与CIA的一贯做法比较相似。
Still, there may be limits to comparisons. The N.S.A. is subject to court-imposed rules about the standard that must be met before its analysts may gain access to its database, which contains records from multiple providers. The C.I.A. appears to have a freer hand, and officials said it had submitted significantly more queries to AT&T for data.
然而，两个机构的做法并不完全相同。如果NSA的分析师要进入其数据库，NSA就必须遵守法院设定的规则，满足一定的标准。此外，它的数据库里有来自多家运营商的数据记录。与之相较，CIA的行动似乎比较自由。官员称，它向AT&T索取数据的次数要多得多。
In addition, while both programs analyze cross-border calls of Americans, the N.S.A.’s Patriot Act database does not include purely foreign calls, while AT&T does not use purely domestic calls in analyzing links for the C.I.A., officials said.
此外，官员称，虽然这两个项目都会对美国人的跨境电话进行分析，但NSA的《爱国者法案》数据库里并没有两头都在外国的电话，AT&T在为CIA作分析时则不会使用两头都在国内的电话。
Absent an emergency, phone companies are usually legally forbidden to provide customers’ calling records to the government except in response to a subpoena or a court order, and the C.I.A. has a mandate to focus overseas. Lawyers who reviewed the program, officials said, concluded that AT&T’s partial masking of American phone numbers satisfied those restrictions, citing a statutory exception to data privacy laws covering “the acquisition by the United States government of foreign intelligence information from international or foreign communications.”
若非事出紧急，根据法律，电话公司一般不得把客户的电话记录提供给政府，除非接到了传票或法院命令。而且，CIA的任务是关注海外。官员称，审核这个项目的律师认为，AT&T对美国电话号码进行部分遮掩的做法符合这些规定，因为数据保密法的一条例外规定允许“美国政府从国际或外国通讯记录中获取外国情报信息”。