President Obama’s name won’t be on any ballots Tuesday, but he will most certainly be on them in spirit — a fact that many Republicans are trumpeting and some Democrats are hoping to downplay.
周二，任何一张选票上都没有奥巴马总统的名字，但在精神上，这场选举却与奥巴马息息相关——许多共和党人对这一点大书特书，而一些民主党人却避之不及。
The president is not particularly popular at the moment.
奥巴马总统现在可不太受欢迎。
According to Gallup’s Frank Newport:
盖洛普(Gallup)的弗兰克·纽波特(Frank Newport)说：
“President Obama’s job approval rating is 42 percent. If that holds up until the day before the election, it will be the second-lowest job approval rating for a president before a midterm election going back to 1982 when Ronald Reagan, of course, was president of the U.S. What was the lowest of all? That was George W. Bush’s, whose job approval rating was 38 percent back in 2006.”
“对奥巴马总统工作表现的支持率有42%，如果这个数字一直维持到选举前一天，将是1982年以来，总统在中期选举前支持率的倒数第二名。82年的时候，美国总统还是罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)呢。谁是倒数第一呢？乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)，他在2006年的支持率只有38%。”
On a host of issues, foreign and domestic, large and small — the rise and spread of the Islamic State, the Russian aggression into Ukraine, the federal response to the Ebola crisis in West Africa and the panic here, the crisis of children from Central America crossing our Southern border, the Internal Revenue Service, the Secret Service, Obamacare and, of course, Benghazi — conservatives have attacked. They have used each as yet another plank to construct their government-as-House-of-Horrors argument about a Washington that is mismanaged and out of touch, overreaching but outmatched.
无论是内政还是外交，大大小小的议题都受到了保守派的攻击——伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的崛起和扩张、俄罗斯对乌克兰的侵犯、联邦政府对西非埃博拉危机和本地的恐慌采取的反应、中美洲儿童穿越美国南部边境的危机、美国国税局(Internal Revenue Service)的丑闻、特勤局(Secret Service)的丑闻、奥巴马医改(Obamacare)，当然还有班加西遇袭事件。他们运用这些议题作为证据，继续支持“政府是恐怖王朝”的论调，声称华盛顿管理不善，脱离现实，手伸得太长，却又能力低下。
And in their propaganda, this idea of an ineffectual, and ultimately dangerous, government has a face: Obama’s. Republicans aren’t running on issues as much as running against an individual and an idea; they are running against Obama and the very idea of federal government, except as defined by the most narrow of functions.
在他们的宣传里，有一张面孔能生动地代表这样一种政府无能而且最终很危险的观念，那就是奥巴马。共和党人的竞选更多的不是在围绕政策议题进行，而是反对一个人、一种观念；他们竞选时反对的是奥巴马，以及联邦政府这个概念（除非只给它设定最狭窄的职能）。
Others believe that there is also something else at play, implicitly or explicitly: race. Last week NBC’s Chuck Todd asked Senator Mary Landrieu, the Louisiana Democrat locked in a tight re-election race, why President Obama has a hard time in her state. One of the reasons she gave was this: “I’ll be very, very honest with you. The South has not always been the friendliest place for African-Americans.”
其他人认为，还有另外一种因素或明或暗地产生着影响：种族。上周NBC的查克·托德(Chuck Todd)问路易斯安那州参议员玛丽·兰德里欧(Mary Landrieu)，为什么奥巴马总统在她的州很不受欢迎。正在竞选连任，而且选情胶着的兰德里欧给出的一个理由是：“我老老实实地对你讲，一直以来，南方对非裔美国人都不算是特别友好。”
This is the great immeasurable when it comes to this man. Race is a construct that, unfortunately, is woven through the fabric of America. Of course, it has some bearing on our politics, but it’s nearly impossible to calculate the degree of the effect for a particular politician. And there can be benefit as well as detriment — pride and prejudice as counterweights.
具体到奥巴马，这是一个重要但无法估量的因素。很遗憾，种族作为一种建构，已经深入到了美国的肌理。当然，它对我们的政治有一些影响，但对于一个具体的政治人物，又几乎无法计算这种影响的程度。而且其中既有收益也有损害——骄傲与偏见相互平衡。
As Obama himself told The New Yorker in January: “There’s no doubt that there’s some folks who just really dislike me because they don’t like the idea of a black President.”
今年1月，奥巴马本人对《纽约客》(The New Yorker)表示：“毫无疑问有一些人非常不喜欢我，只是因为他们不喜欢黑人总统。”
He continued: “Now, the flip side of it is there are some black folks and maybe some white folks who really like me and give me the benefit of the doubt precisely because I’m a black President.”
他接着说：“不过，也有相反的情况，有一些黑人，也可能有一些白人，真心喜欢我，对我毫不怀疑，也恰恰是因为我是黑人总统。”
As Gallup pointed out last week: “We find very little change in the support given to Obama among his strongest demographic subgroup: black Americans.” The report continued, “In fact, if anything, the trend is for relatively higher support among blacks” when measuring the gap between black support for Obama and the national average.
就像上周盖洛普的报告指出的：“在奥巴马支持率最高的人口分组，也就是黑人当中，我们发现奥巴马的支持率没有多少变动。”报告接着写道，“实际上，如果说有变化的话，趋势也是黑人当中的支持率相对提高了”，如果将黑人对奥巴马的支持率与全国平均水平相比较的话。
The president is now playing to those black folks in a last-ditch effort to help Democrats maintain Senate control, even as much of the betting money is on the real possibility that Republicans will wrest control away.
奥巴马总统正在鼓动这一部分黑人，尝试在最后时刻帮助民主党维持对参议院的控制，尽管多数人都预料，真正可能出现的情况是共和党会夺取参议院。
According to a New York Times analysis of voter data earlier this month: “African-Americans could help swing elections in Georgia, Louisiana, North Carolina and possibly Arkansas,” but, the article says, “only if they turn out at higher-than-forecast rates.”
本月早些时候，《纽约时报》对选民数据的分析显示：“非裔美国人可能帮助扭转乔治亚州、路易斯安那州、北卡罗来纳州的选情，或许在阿肯色州也可以”，文章接着说，但是“他们的投票率要高于预测才行”。
So, the president has been making direct appeals to this group on black radio stations across the country. Obama’s appeals appear to be working, at least as measured by the composition of early-voting tallies. As The New York Times’s Nate Cohn pointed out last week in The Upshot:
所以，奥巴马一直在全国各地的黑人电台上，直接向这个群体呼吁。奥巴马的呼吁似乎起了作用，至少按提前投票人数的对比来看是这样。时报的内特·科恩(Nate Cohn)上周在“结语”(The Upshot)中指出：
“The turnout among black voters is particularly encouraging for Democrats, who need strong black turnout to compete in racially polarized states like Georgia and North Carolina. In those two states, black voters so far represent 30 percent of the voters who did not participate in 2010. By comparison, 24 percent of all those who voted in those states in 2010 were black.”
“黑人选民的投票率对民主党而言尤其喜人，要想在种族分化的乔治亚州和北卡罗来纳州竞争，民主党需要极高的黑人投票率才行。在这两个州，今年已投票但2010年没有投票的选民里，有30%是黑人。与之相对比，2010年这些州的全部投票者当中，只有24%是黑人。”