The European Union’s trade chief said on Saturday that a deal had been reached with China to settle a dispute over exports of low-cost solar panels that had threatened to set off a wider trade war between two of the world’s largest economies.
欧盟(European Union)贸易事务负责人周六表示，中欧已经达成协议，解决有关廉价太阳能组件的出口争端，该争端一度可能引发世界两大经济体之间范围更广的贸易战。
The settlement essentially involves setting a fairly high minimum price for sales of Chinese-made solar panels in the European Union to try to prevent them from undercutting European producers. Those producers accused Chinese manufacturers of benefiting from enormous loans from state-owned banks and other government assistance that enabled them to charge prices that would otherwise be uneconomical.
协议的基本内容是，给中国输欧太阳能组件设定相当高的价格下限，以便防止它们损害欧洲生产商的利益。这些生产商指控中国制造商得益于国有银行给予的巨额贷款及其他的政府援助，因此能够设定原本不具经济可行性的价格。
“We have found an amicable solution that will result in a new equilibrium on the European solar panel market at a sustainable price level,” Karel De Gucht, the European trade commissioner, said in a statement.
欧盟贸易专员卡洛·德古赫特(Karel De Gucht)在一份声明中表示，“我们找到了一个友好的解决方案，将在一个可持续的价格水平上给欧洲的太阳能组件市场带来新的平衡。”
The deal immediately met with ferocious criticism from the European manufacturers that had filed the complaint, and it complicates a similar dispute between the United States and China.
此项协议立即遭到那些提起投诉的欧洲制造商的猛烈批评，并使美中之间的一场类似争端复杂化。
Mr. De Gucht’s decision in June to carry out his threat to impose tariffs on solar panels from China generated significant fears within the union about retribution from China. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany called for further negotiations to avoid harm to German exporters. European importers of solar products from China also opposed the tariffs.
今年6月，德古赫特威胁要对中国太阳能组件征收关税，该决定在欧盟内部引发重大担忧，他们担心中国会进行报复。德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)呼吁进行深入谈判，以避免德国出口商遭受损害。购买中国太阳能产品的欧洲进口商也反对征收关税。
At the time, Mr. De Gucht said he had been left with no choice but to impose the tariffs since his investigators found a systematic effort by Chinese companies to sell solar panels in Europe below the cost of making them, a practice known as dumping.
当时，德古赫特表示自己别无选择，只能征收关税，因为调查人员发现中国公司系统性地在欧洲以低于生产成本的价格出售太阳能组件，也就是倾销。
On Saturday, officials at the European Commission said they could not give details of the deal, including the price that Chinese exporters would pay to sell their panels in Europe, until the arrangement had been formally approved by the commission. But a European Union official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal had not yet been formally approved, said the two sides had agreed to a minimum price of 0.56 euros per watt (74 cents), which would base any potential surcharge on the amount of electricity generated by each imported panel.
周六，欧盟委员会(European Commission)官员表示，在该委员会正式批准协议前，他们不能提供协议细节，比如中国出口商要为在欧洲出售太阳能组件付出的代价。但一名欧盟官员表示，双方已经同意将最低价格设定为每瓦0.56欧元（约合4.55元人民币），任何潜在的额外收费都将取决于每一个进口太阳能组件的发电量。由于该协议还没有获得正式批准，这名官员要求匿名。
The European solar manufacturers who lobbied for tougher action against the Chinese exporters on Saturday promised to sue over the settlement.
一些欧洲太阳能产品制造商曾进行游说，要求对中国出口商采取严厉行动。他们在周六表示，会就该解决方案提起诉讼。
The agreement “is contrary in every respect to European law,” said Milan Nitzschke, the president of EU ProSun, an industry group. A minimum price of 0.55 to 0.57 euros was at the level of “the current dumping price for Chinese modules,” the group said in a statement.
太阳能行业协会EU ProSun的主席米兰·尼茨施克(Milan Nitzschke)表示，该协议“从每一方面来看都违反了欧洲的法律”。该协会在一份声明中表示，0.55欧元至0.57欧元的最低价格水平正好是“中国太阳能组件目前的倾销价格”。
The arrangement would cover exports from 90 of about 140 Chinese exporters that were examined during the investigation, and that represent 60 percent of the panels sold in Europe, the government official said. Those 90 companies would no longer face tariffs that were put in place in June. Chinese exporters that did not agree to the terms will still face tariffs that are set to rise to 47.6 percent on Aug. 6 from the current level of 11.8 percent, the official said.
调查共涉及140家中国出口商，前述政府官员表示，这项协议将覆盖其中90家的出口产品，占欧洲市场太阳能电池板的60%。这90家公司将不再需要缴纳于今年6月开始征收的关税。该官员称，不同意相关条款的中国出口商所需缴纳的关税，将于8月6日从目前的11.8%上升到47.6%。
The Chinese government hoped from the start of the trade case with the European Union for a negotiated settlement instead of a legal battle. This deal comes as a relief, said He Weiwen, the co-director of the China-United States-European Union Study Center at the China Association of International Trade in Beijing.
中欧贸易争端伊始，中国政府就期望能通过协商而非法律手段来解决问题。北京的中国国际贸易学会中美欧研究中心主任何伟文说，这项协议让人松了一口气。
The European settlement with Beijing in some ways complicates a similar dispute between the United States and China. The United States Commerce Department imposed final anti-dumping and anti-subsidy tariffs last spring on imports of solar panels from China. China responded on July 18 that it was preparing to impose tariffs of more than 50 percent on polysilicon, the main material for solar panels, on imports from the United States and South Korea.
从某些方面来说，欧洲与中国政府所达成的和解增加了中美之间一起相似争端的复杂性。今年春天，美国商务部(Commerce Department)最终决定对从中国进口的太阳能组件征收反倾销和反补贴关税。7月18日，中国对此做出了回应，表示将对从美国和韩国进口的多晶硅征税，征税幅度将超过50%。多晶硅是制造太阳能组件的主要材料。
The United States began trying in early summer to arrange a comprehensive deal among Beijing, Brussels and Washington that would set new global trade arrangements for solar panels in exchange for the removal of the American tariffs and the preliminary European tariffs. But faced with a complex process in the United States for removing tariffs once the Commerce Department has made them final, the European Union pushed ahead with its own negotiations with China, a Senate aide with detailed knowledge of the issue said on Friday.
初夏时，美国开始尝试在中美欧之间安排一个内容广泛的协议，以为太阳能组件制定新的国际贸易规则为条件，来交换美国取消关税及欧洲取消初步关税的做法。但是在美国，一旦商务部对关税做出最后决定，取消相关规定就将是一个复杂的过程。熟知此事的一名参议院助理上周五表示，因此，欧盟选择了与中国进行单独协商。
“The administration has been doing the right thing on this, pushing for talks and trying to get a joint settlement with Europe, but the Europeans have not had the same attitude and instead are pursuing talks with China independently of the U.S., which has stalled progress on U.S.-China talks,” said the aide, who spoke anonymously because of the diplomatic sensitivity of the issue.
“（美国）政府对这件事的处理是正确的，他们正在推动谈话，希望能与欧洲达成共同协议，而欧盟的态度却非如此，他们撇开美国，单独与中国进行协商，阻碍了中美会谈的进程，”这名参议院助理说。因为此事的外交敏感性，该助理要求匿名。
The Office of the United States Trade Representative, which is part of the White House, had no immediate response to the European deal, which was announced shortly before dawn in Washington.
白宫美国贸易代表办公室(White House's Office of the United States Trade Representative)没有立即对欧盟的做法作出回应。欧盟宣布该协议的时间略早于华盛顿的破晓时间。
Solar panels represent more than 6 percent of China’s exports to the Continent, making them one of the largest Chinese exports to the European Union. In 2011, Chinese exports of panels and their main components to the European Union were worth about 21 billion euros or $27.4 billion.
在中国出口到欧洲大陆的商品中，太阳能组件占了超过6%，是中国出口到欧盟的最大宗产品之一。2011年,中国出口到欧盟的太阳能组件及其主要部件的价值大约为210亿欧元，即274亿美元。
China grew from a tiny player in the global solar panel market five years ago to the world’s dominant producer now through a program of enormous lending by state-owned banks and a wide variety of manufacturing incentives by local and provincial governments. That has allowed Chinese producers to drive down the price of panels by three-quarters over the same period.
五年前，中国在国际太阳能组件市场上还是个小角色，如今，通过国有银行的巨额借贷及地方和省级政府的各种制造业刺激政策，中国已经成了世界上最主要的生产商。中国生产商也得以在同一时期将太阳能电池板的价格压低了四分之三。
But Chinese manufacturers have expanded faster than the market, and the largest of them now face severe financial difficulties.
然而，中国生产商的扩张速度超过了市场的发展速度，所以，那些规模最大的生产商目前都面临着严重的财政问题。