A decade after President Obama made his national political debut with an appeal for Americans to put aside their divisions, the midterm elections on Tuesday delivered a resounding rejection of his call for consensus. Mr. Obama’s poor poll numbers dragged down candidates and hastened his party’s decline in the South and the West, as Democrats watched their hold on the Senate slip away.
十年前，奥巴马总统以呼吁美国人摈弃分歧的讲演首次出现在全国政治舞台上，而周二的中期选举结果则是对他达成共识号召的彻底否决。奥巴马糟糕的支持率拖累了与他属于同一政党的候选人，加快了该政党地位在美国南方和西部地区的下滑，让民主党人眼睁睁地看着自己失去了参议院的多数席位。
More broadly, this year’s election illustrated the geographical limitations of a party the president powerfully remade with a young and diverse coalition. In his two convincing presidential victories, Mr. Obama showed a new way for Democrats to win by solidifying their hold on liberal-leaning states and making gains in places with fast-changing demographics. But he is almost certain to leave his party weaker in the states that are crucial to retaining a congressional majority.
更广泛地说，今年的选举结果显示了民主党的地域局限性，奥巴马曾强有力地重塑该党，让其成为一个年轻人和多样性的联盟。他两次令人信服地赢得总统大选，在大选中，奥巴马为民主党人展示了一条通往胜利的新途径：一靠巩固该党在自由倾向州中的控制地位，二靠在人口结构快速变化的州中争取优势。但他几乎肯定削弱了民主党在某些州中的地位，而这些州对该党能在国会中保持多数席位至关重要。
“It’s something we’re going to have to solve,” said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s longtime political adviser, about the decline of Democrats’ power in conservative-leaning states.
奥巴马的长期政治顾问戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说，“这是我们需要解决的问题，”他指的是民主党在保守倾向州中地位的下滑。
Republicans captured Senate seats in Montana, South Dakota, West Virginia and Arkansas — rural states with rich Democratic traditions that have moved sharply to the right in the Obama years. The results are not only a reinforcement of the red-blue divide Mr. Obama lamented in his 2004 speech at the Democratic National Convention in Boston but demonstrated that the same political gulf has become as much the dominant force shaping congressional races as presidential ones.
共和党赢得了蒙大拿州、南达科他州、西弗吉尼亚州和阿肯色州在参议院的席位，这些富有民主党传统的农业州在奥巴马执政的年间大幅度右倾。这种选举结果不仅加深了奥巴马在2004年于波士顿召开的民主党全国代表大会上的演讲中所痛惜的红蓝鸿沟，也表明了同样的政治鸿沟已成为决定国会选举的重要因素，正如其对决定总统选举所起的决定作用那样。
Tuesday’s results will further purify the two parties. Moderate Democrats in Congress have been replaced by conservative Republicans, continuing a trend that began before Mr. Obama but that has accelerated during his tenure — in no small part because of anger among conservatives. Strategists in both parties agree that voters, especially in parts of the South and West, were handing Republicans a durable advantage in the House and ensuring a closely divided Senate by increasingly backing the same party for Congress that they do for president.
周二的选举结果将进一步纯化两党。国会中的温和派民主党人士被保守派的共和党人士取代，延续了一种趋势，这种趋势始于奥巴马当选之前，但在他任职期间加快了步伐，这在很大程度上是因为保守派的愤怒。两党的战略家都认为，选民、特别是南方和西部的选民，越来越多地在总统选举和国会选举中投票支持同一个党，他们把众议院的一个持久优势交给了共和党，保持了参议院中势均力敌的分裂。
“It is so difficult now to escape the president’s pull for good or for ill depending on which party you’re in,” said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma, a longtime political strategist. “That’s taking away the middle ground in American politics, whether it’s the loss of Northeastern Republicans or Southern Democrats.”
众议院中俄克拉何马州的共和党议员汤姆·科尔(Tom Cole)长期担任政治策略师，他说，“现在很难逃脱总统的牵扯，这种牵扯是好是坏取决于你属于哪个政党。这让美国政治中的中间地带不复存在，不论是东北地区共和党人失利，还是南方的民主党人失利，都是这个问题的表现。”
But as jubilant as Republicans were about capturing the Senate for the first time in eight years, the party’s own leaders warned that they should not misread the results.
尽管共和党人为八年来首次赢得参议院多数席位而欢心鼓舞，但该党的领袖们警告说，他们不应该误读选举结果。
“The American people voted to rein in President Obama, but they also sent a message that they want to get things done,” said Karl Rove, the Republican strategist. “They really do want us to work together.”
“美国人民的投票结果是要遏制奥巴马总统，但他们也发出一个信息，他们想看到问题能得到解决，”共和党策略师卡尔·罗夫(Karl Rove)说。“他们实际上是希望我们能共同努力。”
Such sentiments reflect the realization that, while Republicans flexed their muscles in conservative states and demonstrated that they can at least compete in some swing states, the results Tuesday hardly swept away the considerable challenges they must address before they can take back the White House or hope to tighten their grip on the Senate. Republicans now face a challenge that is the mirror opposite of their counterparts’: how to avoid merely being a powerful congressional party and be competitive again in presidential campaigns, in which Democrats have won the popular vote in five of the last six elections.
这种情绪反映了一种现实，虽然共和党人能在保守州中展示自己的力量，也在至少一些摇摆州中具有竞争力，但周二的选举结果并没有把他们面对的相当大的挑战一扫而空，在他们能入主白宫、或希望巩固该党对参议院的控制之前，他们必须解决这些挑战。共和党现在面临的问题与民主党面临的正好相反：如何避免仅是一个控制国会的强大政党，而是要在总统竞选中再次具有竞争力，在过去的6次总统大选中，民主党人5次赢得了多数选票。
Although the Republican hold on the House may be impregnable until after district lines are redrawn again in the next decade — largely because of the party’s enlarged majority and gerrymandered seats — the same demographic problems that have hampered Republicans in Mr. Obama’s two wins appear evident again in 2016. Voter turnout will spike for the presidential race, and the Senate battle will be fought in more liberal-leaning states. Only 10 Democratic-held Senate seats are at stake in two years, and Republicans must defend incumbents in Illinois, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
虽然共和党对众议院的控制可能固若金汤，至少在十年后重划选区界线之前如此，主要是因为共和党扩大了其在众议院的多数地位，而且许多席位来自为维持其利益而划分的选区，但是在奥巴马连胜的两次大选中让共和党人失利的人口结构问题，在2016年的选举前仍明显存在。参加投票的选民人数在总统竞选年将会大增，而参议院席位的战斗也将转向更具自由倾向的州。目前参议院中只有10个民主党占有的席位将在两年后面临竞争，而共和党必须捍卫其现有的伊利诺伊州、新罕布什尔州、宾夕法尼亚州和威斯康星州的席位。
For Republicans, there remains the serious question of how they compete with the constituencies that increasingly decide the presidency. There were few states in this year’s election where Hispanic or Asian voters played a crucial role. So far the Republican route to victory has been chiefly through criticizing an unpopular president and his policies — something that will hardly suffice in 2016, when Republicans face an electorate that will be even less white than it was in Mr. Obama’s two elections.
对于共和党人来说，一个严重问题仍然存在，那就是他们如何在对赢得总统宝座越来越有决定作用的选区中竞争。在今年的选举中，几乎没有几个州中的西班牙裔或亚裔选民起了至关重要的作用。到目前为止，共和党的胜利路线一直主要是靠批评不受欢迎的总统以及他的政策，这对2016年的选举来说远远不够，届时共和党将面对的选民中，白人的人数将比奥巴马两次当选的选举中的还要少。
“This could just be an epic Pyrrhic victory because Republicans continue to alienate the groups they need to win in the future,” said Neera Tanden, head of the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group.
“这可能只是一次巨大的得不偿失的胜利，因为共和党人在继续疏远他们未来获胜所需要的群体，”自由派研究机构美国进步中心(Center for American Progress)主任尼拉·坦登(Neera Tanden)说。
The Obama years have in effect represented a political trade-off: Democrats largely abandoned the more centrist, line-blurring approach of Bill Clinton to motivate an ascendant bloc of liberal voters. That strategy twice secured the presidency, but in the two midterm races it meant sacrificing the culturally conservative districts and states that had ensured Democratic congressional majorities.
奥巴马执政的年代实际上以一种政治权衡为代表：民主党人在很大程度上抛弃了克林顿更偏中的、模糊界线的做法，以激励一个越来越大的自由派选民集团。这一战略两次助其赢得了总统宝座，但在两次中期选举中，也意味着牺牲了能确保民主党国会多数的文化保守选区和州。
For 2016, one part of the Democrats’ wager is that their next standard-bearer, likely to be Hillary Rodham Clinton, can perform as well with the groups that lifted Mr. Obama and improve their prospects with voters who opposed him, namely working-class whites.
就2016年而言，民主党赌注的一部分是，他们的下一个旗手，可能是希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)，既能赢得支持奥巴马的团体，也能改善他们在反对奥巴马的选民、即工薪阶层白人中的形象。
But Democrats are also invested in demography, believing that they will overcome the deficiencies on vivid display Tuesday by securing those Republican or swing states with increasingly young and nonwhite populations.
但民主党人也把赌注下在人口结构上，他们相信，通过在共和党占多数的州或摇摆州中赢得越来越多的年轻人和非白人选民的选票，能够克服周二的选举结果所生动展现的不足。