WASHINGTON — President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China said Thursday that they would sign the Paris Agreement on climate change on April 22, the first day the United Nations accord will be open for government signatures.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统和习近平主席周四表示，他们将于4月22日签署有关气候变化的《巴黎协议》(Paris Agreement)。当天是该联合国协议开放给各国政府签署的第一天。
Officials cast the announcement as a statement of joint resolve by the world’s two largest greenhouse gas polluters, even though there are doubts about whether the United States can meet its obligations under the agreement.
官员们表示，这个声明展示了世界上最大的两个温室气体排放国的共同决心，不过有些人怀疑，美国是否能承担起这个协议带来的义务。
In February, the Supreme Court temporarily blocked an Obama administration regulation to curb greenhouse gas pollution from power plants, the centerpiece of Mr. Obama’s climate change policy and the major way for the administration to meet its targets under the Paris accord.
今年2月，美国最高法院(Supreme Court)暂时阻止了奥巴马政府遏制发电厂排放温室气体的行政监管行动，那是奥巴马气候变化政策的核心，也是达成《巴黎协议》目标的主要方式。
The two world leaders made the announcement on the sidelines of a nuclear security meeting in Washington.
两位世界领导人在华盛顿核安全会议期间发布了这个声明。
“Our cooperation and our joint statements were critical in arriving at the Paris agreement, and our two countries have agreed that we will not only sign the agreement on the first day possible, but we’re committing to formally join it as soon as possible this year,” Mr. Obama told reporters at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, where he was meeting with Mr. Xi at the nuclear gathering.
“我们的合作以及联合声明对于巴黎协议的实现至关重要。我们两国已经同意，将在签署日的第一天签订这个协议，并且致力于尽快在今年正式加入它，“奥巴马在沃尔特·E·华盛顿会议中心告诉记者。他与习近平在该中心参加核安全会议。
Mr. Obama, who spoke across a table from Mr. Xi, added: “ And we urge other countries to do the same.”
奥巴马和习近平各在一张桌子的一边。奥巴马说：“我们敦促其他国家也这样做。”
Mr. Xi, speaking through an interpreter, said, “As the two biggest economies, China and the U.S. have a responsibility to work together.”
习近平通过翻译发言说，“作为两个最大的经济体，中国和美国有责任携手合作。”
The Paris Agreement, reached in December, is the first global accord to commit nearly every nation to take domestic actions to tackle climate change. To promote the accord, Ban Ki Moon, the United Nations secretary general, planned the signing ceremony for April 22, Earth Day, although world leaders will have a year afterward to sign.
《巴黎协议》于去年12月达成，是第一次几乎每个国家都承诺在国内采取行动，应对气候变化的全球性协议。为了宣传该协议，联合国秘书长潘基文计划在4月22日“世界地球日”举办签署仪式，不过世界各国的领导人可以在之后一年内签署这个协议。
The announcement by Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi is intended to push other countries to sign on, particularly since diplomats say the Supreme Court order has caused some countries to question American climate policy and might cause them to refuse or hesitate to sign the accord.
奥巴马和习近平的声明意在推动其他国家签署该协议，尤其是因为一些外交官称，最高法院的裁定导致一些国家质疑美国的气候政策，并可能促使它们拒绝签署该协议或犹豫不决。
The Paris Agreement will enter into legal force only when enough countries have signed on: Together they have to be responsible for causing 55 percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions.
只有签署的国家足够多，《巴黎协议》才具有法律效力：它们必须为制造了世界上55%的温室气体排放负责。
Because of the Supreme Court stay, the regulation curbing greenhouse gas emissions will not be put in place until legal challenges by 29 states and several business organizations have been resolved, which is unlikely to happen before next year. The regulation would help the United States cut greenhouse gas emissions between 26 percent to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2025.
因为被最高法院叫停，遏止温室气体排放的规定要等到29个州和多个商业组织提出的法律质疑解决了之后才能实施，但这些质疑不太可能在明年之前得到解决。该规定将帮助美国到2025年时，将温室气体排放从2005年的水平上减少26%到28%。
Chinese energy experts said China’s pledge to sign the accord was independent of the status of American climate policy.
中国的能源专家称，中国承诺签署该协议和美国的气候政策情况无关。
“The understanding is that China is doing this for its own sake,” said Ranping Song, an expert on China’s climate change policies with the World Resources Institute, a Washington research organization. “It’s good for their environment, it’s good for their economy.”
“我的理解是，中国这么做是为了自己，”设在华盛顿的研究机构世界资源研究所(World Resources Institute)研究中国气候变化政策的专家宋然平说。“这么做对他们的环境和经济都有好处。”
Mr. Xi’s administration has endorsed an aggressive expansion of renewable energy sources in China. The country’s latest five-year economic plan calls for the country to generate 15 percent of its energy from nonfossil fuel sources by 2020.
习近平领导的政府支持在中国大举扩大可再生能源。中国最新的五年经济规划要求到2020年时，非化石能源的比重达到15%。
Combined, the United States and China account for about 40 percent of global emissions.
美国和中国合起来排放的温室气体，约占全球的40%。
Mr. Ban has invited world leaders to come to New York for the April signing ceremony, which he hopes will represent the largest single joint signing of a major global accord in history.
潘基文邀请世界领导人来纽约出席4月的签署仪式。他希望该仪式能成为史上规模最大的重大全球协议联合签署仪式。
“The most important thing is how many signatures we get on that day,” said Laurence Tubiana, France’s chief climate change envoy to the United Nations and a key broker of the Paris deal. “We need to show momentum, because we know for some countries it may be difficult to sign.”
“最重要的事情是，我们那天能获得多少签名，”法国驻联合国气候变化大使、推动《巴黎协议》的关键人物洛朗斯·蒂比亚纳(Laurence Tubiana)说。“我们需要表现出势头，因为我们知道，对一些国家来说，签署协议可能有些困难。”
Todd Stern, the Obama administration’s chief climate change envoy, said that the day after the Supreme Court’s order, many of his counterparts in other countries expressed anxiety.
奥巴马政府的气候变化特使托德·斯特恩(Todd Stern)表示，最高法院做出裁定后的第二天，其他国家的很多对等官员表示了担忧。
“I heard, does this mean you’re pulling out of Paris?” he recalled in a recent interview. “I said, no, no, no, no — under any circumstances, we’re going to stay the course. One way or another, we’re not moving off our target.”
“我听到有人问，这是不是意味着你们要退出巴黎的协议？”他最近接受采访时回忆说。“我说不不不，任何情况下我们都会坚持到底。无论如何，我们都不会放弃目标。”
Mr. Stern, who has led climate change negotiations for the Obama administration since 2009, will step down from his post on Friday.
将于周五卸任的斯特恩从2009年开始领导奥巴马政府的气候变化谈判。
The United States is not the only major polluting country that may have trouble following through on its Paris commitments. President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil committed to an ambitious plan to reduce her country’s emissions 43 percent from 2005 levels by 2030. The climate plan has been a signature of Ms. Rousseff’s administration, but she now faces possible impeachment, which could throw the Brazilian plan into question.
美国不是唯一一个在履行巴黎承诺方面可能会遇到困难的污染大国。巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)承诺到2030年时，该国的排放将在2005年的水平上减少43%。这个宏伟的气候计划是罗塞夫政府的一个标志性项目，但她现在可能遭到弹劾。这让外界对巴西的计划产生了疑问。
In the United States, enactment of Mr. Obama’s climate change commitments under the Paris deal will ultimately fall to the next president. But that fact also worries some climate diplomats as they watch the 2016 presidential campaign from afar. Although the Democratic front-runner, Hillary Clinton, has pledged to enact and strengthen the Paris Agreement, on the Republican side both Donald J. Trump and Ted Cruz have questioned or denied the science of human-caused climate change. Mr. Trump has forcefully denounced the Paris agreement.
在美国，履行奥巴马在《巴黎协议》中所做的气候变化承诺，最终要落到下一届总统身上。但这个事实也让一些负责气候事务的外交官感到担心。他们从远处关注着美国的2016年大选。民主党领先的候选人希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)承诺通过并加强《巴黎协议》。但在共和党一方，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)和特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)两人要么质疑，要么否认气候变化是人类造成的。特朗普还猛烈谴责《巴黎协议》。