China’s economic growth figures released Monday morning may show a slowdown, but they still indicate that China is growing almost four times as fast as the United States in dollar terms, rapidly closing the gap in the size of the two countries’ economies.
周一上午发布的中国经济增长数字或许表明中国经济增速出现放缓，但按美元计算，这些数字仍然表明中国的增长速度将近美国的四倍，意味着两国经济规模的差距正在迅速缩小。
That is happening much faster than might be suggested by the headline figures: China said Monday that its economy grew 7.7 percent last year after adjusting for inflation, while the United States is expected to announce on Jan. 30 that its economy grew about 2 percent last year.
差距缩小的速度可能比以下重要数据所显示的速度快很多：中国周一表示，刨除通胀因素之后，中国经济去年增长了7.7%，与此同时，美国预计将于1月30日宣布，它去年的经济增长率为大约2%。
But such comparisons of inflation-adjusted growth rates ignore two big factors: that prices are rising faster in China than in the United States, and that China’s currency is also rising against the dollar.
但是，这种刨除了通胀因素的增长率对比忽略了两个重大因素：中国物价的增长速度比美国快，人民币兑美元的汇率也一直在升高。
Nominal economic output — which is not adjusted for inflation — grew 9.5 percent last year in China. Thomas Lam, the chief economist for industrialized economies at OSK-DMG, a Singapore investment bank and brokerage, estimates that nominal growth in the United States was 3.4 percent last year.
去年，中国的名义经济产出——未刨除通胀因素——增长了9.5%。据新加坡投资银行及经纪公司OSK-DMG工业化国家首席经济学家托马斯·林(Thomas Lam)估计，美国去年的名义经济增长为3.4%。
Further fueling China’s growth is the renminbi’s creeping up another 3 percent against the dollar during the last year. Compile the various factors, including that the currency difference was a little smaller earlier in the year, and it works out that China’s economy grew 12.4 percent last year in dollar terms.
去年，人民币对美元升值了3%，进一步提高了中国的经济增长数字。综合各种因素——包括去年早些时候货币差异略小的情况，结论是按美元计算，去年中国经济增长了12.4%。
That is nearly four times the estimated 3.4 percent rate in the United States.
美国的增长率估计仅为3.4%，中国的数据几乎是美国的四倍。
Although 12.4 percent growth might sound extraordinary by American standards, China has managed even faster growth in recent years, when inflation and real growth rates were even higher.The Chinese economy grew 18 percent or more in dollar terms in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2010 and 2011. It only fell short of that mark in 2009 because of the global financial crisis.
按照美国标准，12.4%的增长率听起来似乎非常惊人，然而，在通胀率和实际增长率更高的时候，中国近年的增长率曾经达到更高的水平。按美元计算，在2006、2007、2008、2010和2011年，中国经济都增长了18%以上。2009年由于全球金融危机，才没有达到这个水平。
The triple combination of faster real economic growth, faster inflation and an appreciating currency explain how China’s economy more than quintupled in dollar terms from 2003 to 2013, to $9.2 trillion last year — still a little more than half the size of the American economy, but catching up fast.
将更快的实际经济增长、更高的通货膨胀和不断升值的货币综合起来，便可以解释以美元计的中国经济为何在2003年至2013年间增加了四倍多，达到9.2万亿美元（约合56万亿元人民币）。中国的经济规模依然只是略大于美国经济的一半，但却正在快速赶上。
The question following the data on Monday is how much longer China can keep up the pace — particularly given the extent to which China has financed its growth in recent years with an extremely rapid expansion of money and credit.
周一公布的数据引发的问题是，中国的这种速度还能保持多久，更何况，中国前些年一直在不遗余力地通过极其迅速地扩张货币和信贷来为增长提供资金。
There are many signs that China’s tempo is flagging. Nominal economic growth has nose-dived in China from a peak of 22 percent in 2007 to almost 18 percent in 2010 and 2011 to a little less than 10 percent in each of the past two years.
许多迹象表明，中国的速度正在放缓。中国的名义经济增长速度已从2007年22%的巅峰水平暴跌至2010年和2011年的接近18%，又在接下来的两年跌到了略低于10%的水平。
That rapid slowdown does not fully show up in real economic growth rate data. But borrowers in China need to repay loans with actual renminbi, not inflation-adjusted renminbi. So what matters to them is the nominal growth rate.
这种迅速放缓并未完全体现在实际经济增长数据当中。然而，中国的借款方必须用实际的人民币来偿还贷款，不能用刨除通胀因素之后的人民币。因此，对他们来说，重要的是名义增长率。
Even fairly large companies in China are finding their borrowing rates creeping above 8 percent. Many small and medium-sized businesses without the political muscle or the size to obtain loans from the state-owned banking system depend heavily on the informal market — they are borrowing from local moneylenders who pool money from a neighborhood or community and lend it, often at exorbitant annual interest rates of more than 20 percent.
在中国，即便是相当大的公司也发现，自己拿到的贷款利率攀升到了8%以上。许多没有政治后台、规模也不足以从国有银行系统获得贷款的中小企业严重依赖非正式市场——他们正在从地方上的高利贷者那里借钱，后者从邻里和社区吸纳资金，出借的时候通常会收取超过20%的超高年利率。
Exorbitant rates are hard to afford when nominal economic growth is 9.5 percent and seems to be still falling. Ding Lei, a paint distributor in Xi’an, complained that even as businesses like his were struggling, the informal interest rate in his city, as in many Chinese cities, remained stuck at 2 percent a month, or 27 percent a year with compounding — a sign that lenders are wary of defaults.
当名义经济增速仅为9.5%且似乎仍在下降时，超高的利率就变得难以承受。西安的油漆经销商丁磊（音译）抱怨说，尽管像他的公司那样的企业正在苦苦挣扎，他所在的城市却和中国的许多城市一样，非正式利率依然维持在月息2%，也就是复利年息27%。这表明，放贷方对违约很警惕。
“It is far too high, I don’t understand why it can still be so high,” he said in a telephone interview. “My business has not been that great lately, certainly not as good as, say, two years ago.”
“实在太高了，我不明白为什么还能这么高，”他在接受电话采访时说，“我的公司最近没那么景气，这么说吧，肯定比不上两年前。”