SYDNEY, Australia — BUOYED by a mining boom, Australia was one of the only major developed economies to avoid recession during the global financial crisis. Its economy has been growing for two decades. So why is the ruling Labor Party, in power since 2007, badly trailing in most public opinion polls?
澳大利亚悉尼——在矿业繁荣发展的支撑下，澳大利亚是全球金融危机期间少数几个没有出现衰退的主要发达经济体之一。在过去20年的时间里，澳大利亚的经济不断增长。既然如此，为什么2007年上台的执政党工党(Labor Party)在大多数民意调查中都远远落后于其他政党呢？
Labor has been undone by disunity and regicide. Prime Minister Kevin Rudd was overthrown by his deputy, Julia Gillard, in an internal party coup in June 2010. Demoted to the job of foreign minister, he bided his time and then exacted revenge on Ms. Gillard in June, leading a successful intraparty revolt nearly three years to the day after he was overthrown. Critics also point to promises gone astray, notably a pledge to return the budget to surplus this year.
工党的衰败是因为不团结和内部争夺。2010年6月，党内政变导致陆克文总理(Kevin Rudd)被副总理茱莉亚·吉拉德(Julia Gillard)击败。屈居外交部长的陆克文静静地等待时机，然后在今年6月对吉拉德进行了报复。被击败之后的将近三年里，陆克文领导了一场成功的党内叛乱。除去前述原因，批评人士还指出了一些没有兑现的诺言，特别是在今年恢复财政盈余状态的承诺。
Tony Abbott, the leader of the opposition, is a disciplined campaigner. His attacks on the government’s carbon tax and its record on illegal immigration have hit home. He has the spirited support of most of Rupert Murdoch’s Australian newspapers. But the public remains wary of Mr. Abbott’s rugged social conservatism and unconvinced that he has a positive reform agenda.
反对派领袖托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)是一个老练的竞选者。他对政府的碳税政策及其在非法移民问题上的记录进行了抨击，而且切中肯綮。他受到了鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)旗下的大多数澳大利亚报纸的大力支持。然而，民众依然对阿博特的严格的社会保守主义立场怀有戒心，怀疑阿博特并不能推出积极的改革议程。
As an underwhelming campaign season ends with Saturday’s federal elections, the public temper is one of resignation, not hope.
周六的联邦大选即将为平凡的竞选季划上句点，民众此时的情绪更多是无奈，而不是充满希望。
The campaign has been clogged with trivialities. Was Mr. Rudd rude to a makeup artist who worked with him and Mr. Abbott before a televised debate last month? Did he delay a briefing over the crisis in Syria to appear on a cooking show? Is Mr. Abbott a chauvinist for praising a female candidate for Parliament, a fellow Liberal, for her “sex appeal”? Was he disrespectful to the office of the prime minister when he asked, during the debate, “Does this guy ever shut up?” The stakes in the election are much higher than these nonevents would suggest.
竞选活动当中充满了无聊的琐事。在上个月举行的一场电视辩论中，陆克文是不是对一名为他和阿博特服务的化妆师非常无礼？他有没有为在一场烹调节目中现身而延迟有关叙利亚危机的简报会？阿博特夸奖一名议会自由派女性候选人非常“性感”，这表明他是沙文主义者吗？阿博特曾在辩论期间问，“这个家伙有闭嘴的时候吗？”，这属于不尊重总理职位的行为吗？实际上，这次选举的影响远远大于这些小事所暗示的影响。
A once-in-a-lifetime boom in natural resource exports to China is leveling off. Commodity prices have peaked, and investments generated by the boom — the digging of coal and iron ore mines, the laying of pipelines, the construction of terminals — is slowing. Unemployment is rising, albeit from a low base.
向中国出口自然资源的千载难逢的繁荣时期正在消逝。商品价格业已达到最高水平，出口繁荣带来的投资增长——采掘煤矿和铁矿，铺设管道，以及修建运输枢纽方面的投资——正在放缓。失业率正在上升，尽管其基数较低。
On foreign policy, Australia’s challenges are serious. The country has seemed torn between its Asian geography and its European history. Here the contrast between Mr. Rudd, a wonk who speaks Mandarin, and Mr. Abbott, who has a pronounced affection for the “Anglosphere” (the community of English-speaking nations), is most pronounced. In the campaign, however, Mr. Abbott has criticized Mr. Rudd as being overly ambitious on the global stage and promised that his first overseas trips as prime minister would be to Asian capitals.
在外交政策方面，澳大利亚面临严峻挑战。该国似乎左右为难，因为澳大利亚在地理位置上属于亚洲，从历史上看则是一个欧洲国家。陆克文和阿博特之间的差别最明显地体现了这一点，前者会说汉语，后者则明显喜欢“英语文化圈”（英语国家的群体）。然而，竞选期间，阿博特批评陆克文的国际舞台野心太大，并且承诺，自己作为总理的首次出访将会以亚洲国家的首都为目的地。
The most prominent international issue has been the treatment of asylum seekers — migrants from Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Sri Lanka and other countries, who keep turning up in leaky boats — but there, the distance between the major parties has narrowed; both favor harsh treatment of such migrants to deter them from coming.
最引人注目的国际问题是对避难申请者的处理——来自阿富汗、伊朗、斯里兰卡和其他国家的移民不断乘坐漏水的小船出现在澳大利亚——然而，各主要政党在这个问题上的分歧已经缩小；两党都支持以严厉的方式处置这些移民，以阻止他们进入澳大利亚。
There has been little discussion during the campaign of the global shift of power toward Asia. In the past few years, Australia’s government in Canberra, the capital, has become one point on a strategic triangle formed with Washington and Beijing. Australian diplomats are keen to get relations with China right, given that country’s rapid (though slowing) economic growth, expanding military expenditure and geopolitical clout. It’s not easy, however, for a midsize liberal democracy to get on with a giant authoritarian state.
在全球权力向亚洲转移的运动中，几乎不存在对澳大利亚地位的争论。过去几年里，位于首都堪培拉的澳大利亚政府已成为一个战略三角中的一角，另外两个角是美国政府和中国政府。中国经济快速发展（尽管正在放缓），军备开支和地缘政治影响力不断扩张，有鉴于此，澳大利亚外交官热衷于和中国搞好关系。然而，一个自由民主的中等规模国家要和一个威权制大国融洽相处，并不是容易的事情。
The Australian-American side of the triangle is much more robust. President Obama has placed our country near the heart of his “rebalance” toward Asia, by deciding to rotate a force of up to 2,500 American Marines through Darwin, in the north.
三角关系中的美澳一边更加稳健。在他的亚洲“再平衡”战略中，奥巴马总统已经把澳大利亚放在了接近核心的位置，他决定通过澳大利亚北部的达尔文，来轮换人员可达2500名的美国海军陆战队(American Marines)。
But old friendships create high expectations — and whoever wins may end up disappointing Mr. Obama.
不过，旧情义催生了高期望，无论谁获胜，都可能会让奥巴马失望。
Australia’s military spending has slipped to 1.6 percent of gross domestic product, compared with more than 4 percent in the United States. This is the lowest it has been since before World War II. We have scaled down our military expenditure at the exact moment other countries in the region, including Indonesia, India and Vietnam, have scaled theirs up. Both parties have promised to increase military spending, but have not said how.
澳大利亚的军事开支已经下滑到国内生产总值的1.6%，是自第二次世界大战之前以来的最低值，相比之下，美国的军事开支超过了国内生产总值的4%。就在我们削减军费的同一时刻，包括印度尼西亚、印度和越南在内的一些区域内其他国家正在扩张军费。澳大利亚两党都承诺要提高军事开支，但没有说如何去做。
Australia is the only country to have fought beside the United States in all of its major conflicts over the past century, including Vietnam and Iraq. However, getting involved in any of the unpredictable disputes in our neighborhood in the future may be a different matter. A poll earlier this year by the Lowy Institute found that only 38 percent of Australians agreed that their country “should act in accordance with our security alliance with the United States even if it means supporting American military action in Asia, for example, in a conflict between China and Japan.” This striking ambivalence reflects the fact that our leading strategic partner, the United States, is increasingly a rival to our most important trading partner, China.
在过去的一个世纪里，澳大利亚是唯一一个在美国介入的历次主要冲突中都与美国并肩作战的国家，其中包括了越南战争和伊拉克战争。然而，在未来插手周边任何一场不可预期的冲突，也许是一件完全不同的事。洛伊国际政策研究所(Lowy Institute)今年早些时候进行的民意调查发现，只有38%的澳大利亚人认为，自己的国家“应该遵照美澳安全同盟协议行动，即使那意味着支持美国在亚洲采取军事行动，比如说，在中日冲突中采取军事行动。”这种强烈的矛盾情绪反映了一个现实，即我们主要的战略伙伴美国，正在日益成为我们最重要的贸易伙伴中国的对手。
Australia faces difficult economic and security choices — but this campaign has done little to clarify those choices or articulate the country’s place in the world. It may be left to events, not elections, to awaken us from our slumber.
澳大利亚面临着艰难的经济和安全选择，然而，此次竞选既没有澄清这些选择，也没有彰显澳大利亚的国际地位。也许只有大事件，而非选举，才能把我们从麻木的状态中惊醒。