DARWIN, Australia — South Korea, Japan and the United States have grown accustomed to North Korea’s diatribes, but Pyongyang recently threatened a new target with a nuclear strike: Australia.
澳大利亚达尔文——韩国、日本和美国已经习惯了朝鲜的叫嚣谩骂，但平壤最近威胁要对一个新目标实施核打击，那就是澳大利亚。
During a visit by Vice President Mike Pence to Sydney, the North warned Australia to think twice about “blindly and zealously toeing the U.S. line” and acting as “a shock brigade of the U.S. master.”
在美国副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)访问悉尼期间，朝鲜警告澳大利亚，要对“盲目积极地唯美国是从”和充当“美国主人的突击先锋”三思。
Australian and U.S. troops have fought side by side in every major conflict since World War I, and there are few militaries in the world with closer relations: 1,250 U.S. Marines recently arrived in Darwin for six months of joint exercises; the two countries share intelligence from land, sea and even outer space; and Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull is set to meet President Donald Trump on Thursday on an aircraft carrier in New York.
在一战以来的每一场重大冲突中，澳大利亚军队都和美军并肩作战，两国军队的关系几乎是全世界最亲密的：最近，1250名美国海军陆战队成员抵达达尔文，参加六个月的联合演习；两国共享来自陆地、海洋甚至是外太空的情报；澳大利亚总理马尔科姆·特恩布尔(Malcolm Turnbull)将于周四在纽约附近的一艘航空母舰上与唐纳德·特朗普总统举行会面。
But North Korea’s threat against the country, far-fetched as it might seem, is an example of how Australia’s most important military alliance faces a new challenge: the risk that Trump will draw the nation into a conflict or other unexpected crisis that destabilizes the region, angers its trading partners or forces it to side with either the United States or China.
尽管看上去可能有些不可思议，但朝鲜对澳大利亚的威胁，是后者最重要的军事联盟面临一个新挑战的例子：特朗普可能会让该国陷入一场破坏该地区的稳定、激怒其贸易伙伴或迫使其选择支持美国还是中国的冲突或其他出人意料的危机的风险。
“The question is: What might America drag Australia into?” said Ashley Townshend, a research fellow at the U.S. Studies Center at the University of Sydney. “That’s a very scary thought for Australians, many of whom perceive Donald Trump to be an erratic and highly self-interested commander in chief.”
“问题是：美国可能会置澳大利亚于何种境地？”悉尼大学美国研究中心研究员阿什利·汤曾德(Ashley Townshend)说。“对澳大利亚民众来说，这是一个非常可怕的想法，他们很多人认为唐纳德·特朗普是一个多变且非常自我的最高统帅。”
Trump has already embarrassed Australia once, with an abrupt phone call to Turnbull that seemed to dismiss Australia’s historic role as a friend who often gives more than it gets. Now his unpredictable approach is fueling a national debate about Australia’s relationship with the world, and especially the United States. Last week, Paul Keating, a prime minister during the Clinton years, reignited discussion by arguing that Australia must end its status as a “client state.”
特朗普已经让澳大利亚尴尬过一次了。他曾突然致电特恩布尔，那通电话似乎没有考虑澳大利亚作为一个付出通常多过回报的朋友的历史角色。现在，他令人捉摸不透的行事方式推动了一场有关澳大利亚与世界，尤其是与美国关系的全国性讨论。上周，在克林顿时期担任澳大利亚总理的保罗·基廷(Paul Keating)称该国必须结束其作为“附庸国”的地位，从而重新点燃了这场讨论。
Australia is essentially caught between two powers: China, its largest trading partner, and the United States, its faithful ally, with a military connection that has been strengthened by the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and more recent agreements to gradually expand the U.S. footprint in Darwin.
基本上，澳大利亚被夹在了两个大国之间：最大的贸易伙伴中国和忠诚的盟友美国。伊拉克和阿富汗的战争，以及最近达成的逐渐扩大美国在达尔文的存在的协议巩固了澳大利亚与后者的军事联系。
What Australia and the United States are now trying to work out is how to manage that military momentum in an increasingly tense part of the world. If the military is a hammer in the Trump era, at what point does every dispute start to look like a nail?
澳大利亚和美国现在努力想要弄明白的是，如何在一个局势越来越紧张的地区管理这种军事势头。如果军队是特朗普时代的锤子，那么从什么时候开始，每一起纠纷看着都像是钉子？
“It’s always important that there’s a balance between the military and the diplomatic — because of the scale of the military,” Keating said in an interview. “In both economic terms and in strategic terms, they squeeze diplomacy out.”
“军事和外交保持平衡永远都很重要，原因在于军队的规模，”基廷在接受采访时说。“就经济和战略而言，他们把外交挤走了。”
Darwin, a humid, crocodile-infested coastal city at the northern end of this vast country, captures the past, present and future of Australia’s alliance with the United States.
澳大利亚幅员辽阔，位于最北端的海滨城市达尔文气候潮湿，常有鳄鱼出没。这里记录着澳大利亚与美国之间的联盟的过去、现在和未来。
Japan attacked the city on Feb. 19, 1942, killing 235 people, and residents are quick to point out that the raids were led by the same commander responsible for the attack on Pearl Harbor 10 weeks earlier.
1942年2月19日，日本袭击达尔文。民众很快指出，领导突袭的，和应该为十周前的珍珠港袭击负责的指挥官是同一人。
Within a few months, Darwin became a hub for counterstrikes from bombers flown by Americans. A pocket guide for arriving U.S. troops set the tone: “You’re going to meet a people who like Americans and whom you will like.”
几个月后，达尔文成了美国人驾驶的轰炸机进行反击的枢纽。一份针对来到达尔文的美军的袖珍指南定了调：“你会遇到一个喜欢美国人，并会得到你的喜爱的民族。”
During the Cold War, the relationship expanded.
冷战期间，两国关系增强。
Kim Beazley, a former defense minister and ambassador to the United States, cited the rise during the 1960s of three joint installations to maintain contact with U.S. submarines in the Indian Ocean and provide infrared detection of Soviet capabilities, increasing the warning time for a potential Soviet strike to 30 minutes from 15.
澳大利亚前国防部长、驻美大使金·比兹利(Kim Beazley)提到了60年代三处联合设施的崛起。这些设施是为了保持与印度洋的美国潜艇联络，并提供对苏联军事力量的红外探测。它们把对潜在的苏联袭击发出警报的时间从15分钟，增加到了30分钟。
Those installations and the ones that followed — especially Pine Gap, a joint Australian-U.S. spy base that helps provide battlefield intelligence and early warnings for missile launches around the world — “are never talked about, but they’re really the guts of the alliance,” Beazley said.
这些设施和之后的那些，特别是帮助提供战场情报和对全球导弹发射发出预警的澳美联合间谍基地松树谷(Pine Gap)，“从来没被提到过，但它们的确是这个联盟的内部核心，”比兹利说。
On the ground in countries like Iraq and Afghanistan, Australian troops are also peers in battle, said Lt. Col. Brian S. Middleton, commanding officer of the 3rd Battalion, 4th Marines — the U.S. unit that just moved into Darwin for six months of training with the Australians.
刚抵达达尔文，准备与澳大利亚进行六个月训练的海军陆战队四团三营的指挥官布莱恩·S·米德尔顿(Brian S. Middleton)中校说，在伊拉克和阿富汗等国的地面行动中，澳大利亚军队也是美国的友军。
As part of the U.S. pivot to Asia, the long-term plan, negotiated under the Obama administration, is to send up to 2,500 Marines to Darwin — the largest deployment of U.S. forces to Australia since World War II. “It’ll make us more effective in whatever conflict we end up serving in together,” said Kelly Magsamen, the Pentagon’s top Asia-Pacific policy official at the end of the Obama administration.
在奥巴马政府时期通过谈判达成的长远规划“转向亚洲”的部分内容，是向达尔文派驻最多2500名海军陆战队士兵。这是自二战以来，美国向澳大利亚最大规模的派兵行动。“不管我们最后会在什么冲突中共同作战，这都会增强我们的战斗力，”奥巴马政府末期五角大楼负责亚太策略的最高官员凯莉·玛格萨门(Kelly Magsamen)说。
Still, there have been challenges. In a discussion last year about the cost of the Marines in Darwin, the Australians came in with a data-heavy presentation asserting that U.S. Marines eat more than typical Australian soldiers, and therefore strain sewage systems more, and argued that the Americans should pay more of the costs of improving wastewater lines on military bases. The proposal stunned even the lead Australian negotiators, who quickly dropped it, according to U.S. defense officials.
但挑战依然存在。在去年的一场有关海军陆战队在达尔文产生的费用的讨论中，澳大利亚通过数据丰富的演示认为，美国海军陆战队士兵吃得比普通澳大利亚士兵多。因而给下水道系统造成的压力更大。因此，澳大利亚主张美国为改善军事基地的废水管线承担更多花费。据美国国防官员称，就连澳大利亚首席谈判代表都对这一提议感到震惊。他们很快放弃了该提议。
“China is the elephant in the room for both of us,” Magsamen said. “We need to have a more frank and structured discussion amongst ourselves about how to manage that relationship.”
“对我们两国来说，中国都是一个躲不过去的大议题，”玛格萨门说。“我们需要在内部就如何管理这种关系，进行一场更坦率、条理更清楚的讨论。”
Allan Gyngell, who ran Australia’s intelligence agency from 2009 to 2013, argues in a new book, “Fear of Abandonment,” that Australia’s foreign policy is still driven by worries about being left isolated, without the promise of security from a powerful friend: first Britain, now the United States.
2009到2013年间领导澳大利亚情报机构的艾伦·金吉尔(Allan Gyngell)在新书《被抛弃的恐惧》(Fear of Abandonment)中称，在没有强大盟友——先是英国，现在是美国——提供安全承诺的情况下，澳大利亚的外交政策依然受到对被孤立的担忧的驱动。
Keating, the former prime minister, is among those urging a more independent foreign policy in which Australia accepts China as the region’s dominant power.
前总理基廷属于呼吁澳大利亚实行更独立的外交政策，接受中国成为该地区的主导力量的一派。
In the discussion last week at the Lowy Institute, a think tank in Sydney, Keating said Australia should say no to the United States more often — as France and Canada do — especially on issues that affect Australia’s relationship with China.
上周在位于悉尼的智库洛伊研究所(Lowy Institute)的讨论中，基廷称澳大利亚应该更经常地对美国说不——就像法国和加拿大那样——特别是在影响澳大利亚与中国关系的问题上。
Those who reject this argument include John Howard, the prime minister who followed Keating and was in Washington on Sept. 11, 2001.
反对这个观点的人包括接任基廷总理职位的约翰·霍华德(John Howard)。2001年9月11日那天，霍华德就在华盛顿。
“We deepened our relationship with the U.S. — and China became our biggest customer,” he said.
“我们深化了与美国的关系，中国也成了我们最大的顾客，”他说。
He added that too many Australians were jumping to conclusions about Trump. “He’s different,” Howard said. “Whether he’s good different or bad different is not the point; the world has to get used to him.”
他接着表示，太多澳大利亚人急于对特朗普下结论。“他不一样，”霍华德说。“是好的不一样还是坏的不一样并不重要，这个世界必须习惯他。”