For all the pronouncements about the United States and China reaching a historic climate pact, the agreement they announced Wednesday does not signal a seismic shift in policies by either nation, experts said.
尽管人们对美国和中国达成历史性气候协议大加赞赏，但专家们表示，两国在周三宣布的协议并不意味着双方政府的政策会发生天翻地覆的变化。
The United States and China should both be able to meet the stated goals by aggressively pursuing policies that are largely in place, these analysts said. For the United States, those include the Obama administration’s proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from coal plants, which would go into effect in 2017. Experts said that in practice it should be possible to wring more emissions cuts from that and other climate-related measures without adding to costs.
这些分析人士说，美国和中国应该都能够通过积极推行在很大程度上已经存在的政策，来实现协议的目标。对美国来说，这些政策包括奥巴马政府提出的减少燃煤电厂温室气体排放的提案，该提案将于2017年生效。专家表示，在实践中，应该有可能从中、以及从其他与气候有关的措施中得到更多的减排，而无需增加成本。
“We think that the tools are there to meet this target,” said David Doniger, director of the climate program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.
美国自然资源保护委员会气候变化项目主任戴维·多尼格(David Doniger)说，“我们认为，已经有实现这一目标的工具。”
Politics, of course, may get in the way — Republicans in Congress vowed to fight the power-plant proposal even before it was introduced in June, and some, including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who will become the majority leader next year, have already sharply criticized the China pact.
当然，政治可能会给实现目标制造障碍——在提案于六月份送交国会之前，国会中的共和党人就发誓要抵制这个针对发电厂的措施，包括肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)在内的一些人，已经尖锐地批评了与中国达成的协议，麦康奈尔将在明年成为参议院多数派领袖。
Policy analysts said that a changing energy mix for China, including a buildup of renewable energy sources and nuclear power, had been in the works for some time. “What China is pledging to do here is not a lot different from what China’s policies are on a track to deliver,” said David G. Victor, who studies climate policy at the University of California at San Diego.
策略分析人士表示，中国改变其能源构成、包括使用更多的可再生能源和核能的工作已有一段时间了。“中国在协议中承诺要做的，与中国按照目前的政策将实现的差不太多，”戴维·G·维克多(David G. Victor)说，他在加州大学圣地亚哥分校研究气候政策。
Wang Yi, a professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing, said that a consensus had grown recently among experts in China that the 2030 date was achievable for its targets, and that 2025 would be a more ambitious goal.
在北京的中国科学院工作的王毅教授说，中国专家最近形成的共识是，2030年的目标可以实现，但如果把目标定在2025年的话，实现起来将需要极大的努力。
The agreement, announced during President Obama’s visit with President Xi Jinping in Beijing, calls for the United States to reduce carbon emissions by 26 percent to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2025. That represents a significant acceleration in the rate of reduction from the president’s earlier pledge to cut emissions 17 percent by 2020.
美国总统奥巴马访华期间与习近平在北京一起宣布的协议，要求美国在2025年把碳排放量从2005年水平上降低26%到28%。这对奥巴马以前承诺的在2020以前把排放量降低17%而言，意味着极大地提高了减排速度。
For its part, China has agreed to pursue policies that will lead the country to its peak in carbon dioxide emissions by 2030, or earlier if possible, and to increase the proportion of renewables in its energy mix to about 20 percent by then.
就中国而言，中国已经要采取各种措施，让国内的二氧化碳排放在2030年、或可能更早达到峰值，中国还要在2030年将其能源构成中可再生能源的比重提高到约占20％。
Experts said that the emissions reductions in the agreement would not be enough to enable the world to keep global warming below the target of a 2-degree Celsius, or 3.6-degree Fahrenheit, rise in global temperatures that was adopted at a climate meeting in Copenhagen in 2009.
专家表示，协议中的减排量不足以让世界实现把全球变暖的温度保持在2摄氏度以内的目标，这个目标是2009年在哥本哈根的气候会议上制定的。
Beyond the reductions, they said the deal was important for what it showed the rest of the world, particularly other large carbon emitters like India and Russia, in advance of a meeting in Paris next year to negotiate a new climate treaty.
专家说，除了减排，协议为在明年的巴黎会议上达成新的气候条约，向世界其他国家所展示的东西也很重要，尤其是对像印度和俄罗斯这样的碳排放大国。
“It shows that the two big dogs in the room are taking the issue seriously,” said Kevin Kennedy of the World Resources Institute. “It provides a real opportunity for the start of what could become a race to the top.”
“协议表明，世界上两个最大的国家在认真对待这个问题，”世界资源研究所的凯文·肯尼迪(Kevin Kennedy)说。“这给开启可能成为力争上游的竞争提供了一个真正的机会。”
But it remains unclear whether that will happen. In India, the world’s third-largest carbon polluter, the government of President Narendra Modi has signaled that it will not announce an emissions-reduction target for emissions cuts. India has long maintained that it should not be required to commit to such goals.
但这种竞争是否会发生目前还不清楚。在世界上第三大碳污染国印度，纳伦德拉·莫迪总统(President Narendra Modi)的政府已经表示，它将不会宣布减排目标。印度长期以来一直坚持认为，自己不应该被要求承诺减排目标。
“I doubt the Indian government is going to change anything at this time,” said Rajendra M. Abhyankar, a former Indian ambassador to the European Union and a professor of public diplomacy at Indiana University’s School of Public and Environmental Affairs. “The action by China might create a notional pressure, but I doubt it will be a great pressure.”
拉金德拉·M·阿比安卡尔(Rajendra M. Abhyankar)曾担任印度驻欧盟大使，现在是印第安纳大学公共卫生和环境学院的公共外交教授，他说，“我怀疑印度政府会在这个时候改变做法。中国的行动可能会制造一种名义上的压力，但我怀疑这将是一个很大的压力。”
Still, the new agreement has given a fresh jolt of optimism to the Paris negotiations, where the American and Chinese targets are expected to be the heart of the discussions. Nearly two decades ago, the world’s first climate-change treaty, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, failed to stop the rise of carbon emissions in large part because of a standoff between China and the United States.
尽管如此，新协议仍给巴黎谈判带来了乐观的新动力，美国和中国的目标预计将成为谈判讨论的核心。大约20年前，世界上第一个气候变化条约，也就是1997年签订的《京都议定书》未能停止碳排放量的上升，在很大程度上是因为中美两国僵持不下。
Under the new pact, the United States would roughly double the current rate of emissions reductions between 2020 and 2025, to close to 3 percent per year on average. A White House statement said that target was “grounded in intensive analysis of cost-effective carbon pollution reductions achievable under existing law.”
根据新协议，美国将在2020年至2025年间将减排率大致增加一倍，接近平均每年3％的水平。白宫的声明说，该目标是“建立在对现行法律下可实现的高性价比碳减排方案的透彻分析的基础之上的”。
The administration was short on specifics, but Mr. Doniger said one reason reductions may accelerate may simply be momentum — measures that are already in place will have more impact over time.
尽管政府的政策缺乏细节，但多尼格说，减排速度可能加快的一个原因也许仅仅是因为势态的积累：已经采取了的措施将随着时间的推移产生更大的效果。
The Environmental Protection Agency, for example, has already issued vehicle emissions standards that become tighter through 2025. “The improvement ramps up, and that’s already done,” Mr. Doniger added.
比如，美国国家环境保护局已经发布的汽车排放标准，从现在起到2025年，对排放的限制将越来越严格。“改进将逐步增加，这已经开始了，”多尼格补充说。
Similarly, he said, measures to curb leaks of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, from oil and gas production, which the Obama administration is considering, should have increasing effect as that industry grows over time. “If you have sensible leakage controls you get a very big reduction,” he said.
他说，同样地还有，奥巴马政府正在考虑的、在石油和天然气的生产过程中抑制甲烷泄漏的措施，甲烷是一种强效温室气体。随着时间的推移，这些措施被更多的企业采纳，其效果也会越来越明显。他说，“如果你合理控制泄漏，你会得到非常大的减排。”