Stephen Roach proposes to remake the two largest economies on the globe, ours and China’s. For decades, he writes, the United States and China relied too much on a “marriage of convenience” that guaranteed China a huge market for its exports. In exchange, China gave American consumers a cornucopia of inexpensive products, while creating a willing buyer of the United States government’s swollen debt. But that marriage has played out, Mr. Roach says; it has warped the two economies, leaving them ill-equipped for further growth.
斯蒂芬·罗奇(Stephen Roach)建议，让美国和中国这两个全球最大经济体从头来过。他说几十年来美中两国过分依赖一种“权宜婚姻”，这确保中国的出口商品能找到一个巨大的市场，反过来说中国又向美国消费者提供了琳琅满目的廉价商品，同时还心甘情愿地成了美国政府巨额债务的买家。但是罗奇说这段婚姻已经名存实亡，它把两个经济体包裹在一起，使它们丧失了进一步增长的能力。
In “Unbalanced: The Codependency of America and China,” Mr. Roach asserts that it’s time for the two nations to switch identities: that the United States should change its emphasis from consuming to producing, and that China should do the opposite.
在《失衡：美国与中国的相互依附》(Unbalanced: The Codependency of America and China)一书中，罗奇断言两国到了交换身份的时候：美国应该将侧重从消费转向生产，而中国则正相反。
Mr. Roach suggests that the way for the two nations to prosper is jointly. If China is to build a consumer society and find jobs for millions of peasants flooding into cities looking for work, it must create a robust services sector. The trick for the United States is to build its exports by helping China meet that need, exploiting American expertise in everything from running retail chains to overnight delivery to professional services.
罗奇表示，两国的繁荣昌盛需要共同去实现。中国要想建起一个消费者社会，给成千上万涌入城市的农民提供就业岗位，就必须建立一个坚挺的服务业。美国的诀窍则是发展出口，帮助中国去满足这种需求，把美国在零售连锁经营、次日达速递，乃至专业服务等等方面的专长充分利用起来。
China is already the third-largest importer of American products. It has gobbled up American producer goods, so prospects for broader American exports are good. Mr. Roach calculates that a $4 trillion market is opening up for foreign providers.
中国已经是美国产品的第三大进口国。它对美国生产的商品狼吞虎咽，因此美国出口有进一步扩大的良好前景。据罗奇的估算，中国将向外国供应商提供一个4万亿美元（约合24.2万亿人民币）的市场。
None of that will come easily, Mr. Roach concedes. He says China can probably pull it off — its consumerist goals are already built into its Five-Year Plan. But he wonders, without offering much of a blueprint, whether the American people and their elected leaders can stomach the sacrifices of saving rather than consuming.
罗奇承认这些前景要变为现实并非易事。他说中国方面有望把这事办成——强调消费的目标已经写到它的五年计划里。但是在没什么具体规划的情况下，他不知道从消费转向攒钱这样的牺牲，美国人民及其民选领袖能否受得了。
The alternative, he worries, might be more fist-shaking toward China and, conceivably, a devastating trade war that nobody wants. Strident anti-Chinese voices in Congress aren’t entirely bad, Mr. Roach says — a Senate bill proposing trade sanctions spooked China into lifting the value of its currency, thus raising the price of Chinese products. But if the United States economy doesn’t revive and Washington actually enacts trade sanctions, a tit-for-tat exchange of curbs could carom out of hand as Beijing replies in kind.
令他担心的是，美国也许会转而选择更多地向中国挥舞拳头，可以想见，那将引发一场双方都不希望看到的灾难性贸易战。罗奇说，国会中那些刺耳的反华言论不全是坏事——参议院的一个贸易制裁提案，促使中国提升其货币的汇率，从而提高了中国产品的价格。但如果美国经济没有复苏，华盛顿也真的实施了贸易制裁，那么北京会采取同样的手段，势必出现一系列你来我往的限制措施。
Mr. Roach offers an evenhanded, thorough response to the anti-China potshots from Democrats and Republicans alike. It is surprising, though, how matter-of-factly he seems to accept that America is on a downhill slope. In the fresh relationship that he sketches for the two world powers, China is the mature senior partner and America its problematic, less-reliable junior.
对于民主党和共和党内那些盲目的反华人士，罗奇给出了一个公正而透彻的回应。不过，他能够如此不动声色地接受美国在走下坡路的看法是出人意料的。在他描绘的这种两个大国之间的新型关系中，中国是一个成熟、年长的合作伙伴，而美国是一个惹是生非、靠不住的毛头小子。
Mr. Roach is a global affairs senior fellow at Yale who once led Morgan Stanley Asia. A top Wall Street global economist, he was struck by how adroitly China dodged being drawn into the Asian financial crisis in the 1990s (by pushing cheap exports to finance huge dollar reserves). “It didn’t take long for me to get hooked on the Chinese development miracle,” he writes.
罗奇是耶鲁大学(Yale)全球事务高级研究员，曾任摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)亚洲区主管。作为华尔街首屈一指的全球经济学家，他对中国避开上世纪90年代亚洲金融危机的敏捷身手感到惊叹（通过推动廉价出口取得了巨大的美元储备）。“我很快就对中国的发展奇迹着了迷，”他写道。
And hooked he remains. Much of his book is devoted to defusing hostility toward China. He notes, for instance, that though Chinese exports ravaged American manufacturing, their low prices reduced consumer inflation in the United States. (Some 70 percent of what Walmart sells comes from China.) And though China gets a black eye for excessive exports to the United States, Mr. Roach sees it as wrongly blamed. China is often just the final link in a long supply chain, assembling parts made elsewhere. Yet under accounting rules, the entire value of such products is recorded as Chinese exports, though much of their value was produced in other countries. China’s enormous holdings of United States Treasury debt are a grave worry, he acknowledges. If China were abruptly to stop buying Treasury debt, Uncle Sam  would be hard-put to find buyers for so much volume and almost certainly would have to pay higher interest.
这种迷恋仍在继续。他的这本书中，很大篇幅都致力于平息对中国的敌意。比如他指出，虽然中国出口对美国制造业构成了巨大伤害，但这些出口的低廉价格也缓解了美国的消费通胀。（沃尔玛[Walmart]出售的商品有七成左右来自中国。）中国因为向美国过度出口而成千夫所指，但罗奇认为它是冤枉的。在长长的供应链中，中国往往是最后一环，负责将各地生产的零件组装起来。然而根据现行会计准则，这些产品的全部价值都会被记为中国的出口货物，哪怕相当一部分价值是其他国家生产的。他承认中国目前持有巨量美国国债是一个可怕的隐患。一旦中国突然停止购买，山姆大叔要为这种规模的债券找到买主会很困难，而且利息几乎肯定会更高。
The root problem, Mr. Roach says repeatedly, is America’s inability to save enough at home to finance its growth — a situation that is hardly China’s fault. And a day of reckoning is coming. If China devotes more of its surplus savings to funding a decent pension plan or health care for its citizens, it will spend that much less at Treasury auctions.
罗奇反复指出，根本问题在于美国自己没有能力存下钱来资助增长——这个局面很难说是中国造成的。而报应很快就要到来。如果中国将盈余的储蓄更多地用到它的国民身上，出资建立一个像样的养老金或医疗保险项目，那么它花在购买美国国债上的钱就会减少。
Mr. Roach walks a line between explaining China and excusing it. He stresses that its modern economy, barely three decades old, is still learning the game. He notes that though China has a terrible record on intellectual-property rights, the West has dealt with intellectual-property issues since the 1400s; China’s patent law dates only to 1985.
罗奇的立场介于为中国作辩解和帮它找借口之间。他强调中国的现代经济只有区区三十年历史，还在摸索中。他知道中国在知识产权上劣迹斑斑，但西方早在15世纪就已经开始处理知识产权问题；中国专利法1985年才生效。
And, yes, the Internet is censored, often heavy-handedly, but it does exist and even thrive in China; it has by far the world’s largest Internet community, which plays a vital role in creating the new consumer economy.
还有，互联网的确受到了审查，且下手往往很重，但它还是存在着，甚至茁壮成长着；它拥有迄今为止全世界最庞大的互联网社区，对创造新的消费经济起到了必不可少的作用。
Mr. Roach understands that China, in many ways still a poor country, differs vastly from the United States. He acknowledges the Chinese Communist Party’s many flaws. He knows that it cracks down proactively on any dissent that threatens its rule. He is aware that dealings between Washington and Beijing can sour for innumerable reasons. And he is terribly pessimistic about political myopia and paralysis in Washington.
罗奇很清楚，从很多方面看仍是个穷国的中国跟美国有巨大差异。他承认中国共产党有许多缺陷。他知道，一旦出现威胁到其统治的异见人士，它会出手镇压。他知道有太多的原因能导致华盛顿和北京的关系恶化。此外他对华盛顿的政治短视和瘫痪也极为悲观。
But “the endgame provides enormous opportunity for each,” he writes. “The challenge is for both to see it.”
但“这副残局给双方都带来了许多机遇，”他写道。“难在双方要看到这一点。”