Call her Bao Bao.
她叫“宝宝”。
The National Zoo revealed the name of its baby giant panda on Sunday, celebrating the second surviving cub to be born there.
在周日举行的庆祝活动上，美国国家动物园(National Zoo)揭晓，这个园内出生的第二只存活熊猫幼崽名叫“宝宝”。
More than 123,000 votes cast from around the world determined the name of the panda, according to the zoo’s Twitter feed. Voters selected Bao Bao, which means “precious” or “treasure,” from five Mandarin Chinese options.
动物园的Twitter账号称，来自世界各地的12.3万多张选票选出了熊猫的名字。在五个备选的普通话名字中，选民们最青睐“宝宝”，意为“宝贝”或“珍宝”。
The cub was born in August, but in accordance with Chinese tradition, the zoo did not name her until 100 days after her birth. Visitors and officials celebrated the occasion on Sunday with dancing and speeches, including recorded messages from Michelle Obama and Peng Liyuan, the wife of China’s president, Xi Jinping.
这只幼崽出生于今年8月。按照中国传统，动物园等到她出生100天后才命名。周日的时候，游客和官员都加入了庆祝活动。会上有舞蹈和演讲，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)和中国国家主席习近平的夫人彭丽媛也发来了预先录制好的祝福。
“Our two nations have worked hand in hand on this crucial and successful effort to save giant pandas from extinction,” Mrs. Obama said.
“我们两国共同携手，在拯救大熊猫免于灭绝的重要领域做出了成功的尝试，”奥巴马夫人说。
Under an agreement with the Chinese government to study and breed giant pandas, the cub’s parents, Mei Xiang and Tian Tian, have lived in Washington since 2000. They are on loan to the zoo until 2015.
根据与中国政府签署的研究与繁育大熊猫协议，这只幼崽的父母“添添”和“美香”2000年的时候来到华盛顿生活。他们在国家动物园的租借期将于2015年截止。
The pair had a cub in 2005, who now lives at the China Conservation and Research Center for the Giant Panda in the Wolong National Nature Reserve in Sichuan Province. When Bao Bao turns 4, she will join her older brother, Tai Shan, in China.
2005年，这对熊猫生下了一只幼崽，如今他生活在四川卧龙国家级自然保护区的中国保护大熊猫研究中心。当“宝宝”4岁的时候，她也会回到中国，与这只名为“泰山”的兄长团聚。
The baby panda’s arrival brightened a city that had mourned the unexpected death of another cub in September 2012. Mei Xiang gave birth to that cub, a female who died a week later. The mother also had a second, stillborn cub when she gave birth to Bao Bao.
熊猫幼崽的出生让整个华盛顿高兴起来。2012年9月，“美香”曾产下一只雌性幼崽，但一周后的意外死亡让全城为之神伤。“宝宝”出生时，熊猫妈妈还同时产下了一只死胎。
Bao Bao has been visible only through the National Zoo’s popular video stream, known as the Panda Cam — except for the 16-day government shutdown in October, when devoted observers missed the chance to see her open her eyes for the first time. Conceived by artificial insemination, the cub weighed almost 11 pounds just over a week ago.
过去一段时间，人们一直只能通过国家动物园颇受欢迎的熊猫摄像头(Panda Cam)在线观看“宝宝”——除了今年10月的16天政府停摆期间。当时，铁杆粉丝丧失了看到她第一次睁开双眼的机会。这只幼崽来自人工授精，一周多前的体重接近11磅（约合5千克）。
The panda house has been closed since the cub’s birth. She will make her first public appearance in January, the zoo said on Sunday.
自从这只幼崽出生后，熊猫馆就处于闭馆状态。动物园周日表示，她将于明年1月首次亮相。
The zoo, in Northwest Washington, has been the site of a recent baby boom, including two Sumatran tigers that were also born in August.
国家动物园位于华盛顿西北部，最近赶上了一波婴儿潮，其中包括同样于今年8月出生的两只苏门答腊虎。
The National Zoo’s youngest occupants are in the spotlight as the Obama administration increases its efforts in partnership with China to protect endangered species from habitat destruction and wildlife trafficking. The United States destroyed its stockpile of contraband African elephant ivory in November to send a signal to poachers and consumers.
动物园的这批小生命成为人们关注焦点的同时，奥巴马政府正在加强与中国的合作，努力保护濒危物种免受栖息地损毁和野生动物非法交易的侵害。今年11月，美国销毁了库存的走私非洲象牙，为的是向偷猎者和消费者发出信号。
The giant panda is an endangered species, with some experts estimating that there are only about 1,600 left in the wild.
大熊猫是濒危物种，一些专家估计，该物种目前的野外生存总量仅为1600只左右。