WASHINGTON—The historic announcement by President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China that they will commit to targets for cuts in their nations’ carbon emissions has fundamentally shifted the global politics of climate change. The agreement has given a fresh jolt of optimism to negotiations aimed at reaching a new international climate treaty next year in Paris, where the American and Chinese targets are expected to be the heart of the deal.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统和中国国家主席习近平宣布，将各自在本国致力于削减碳排放的目标。这一历史性声明让应对气候变化的全球政治格局发生了根本性转变。该协议给明年在巴黎进行的新国际气候条约的谈判注入了新的活力。届时，美中两国的减排目标预计将成为条约的核心内容。
“For the world’s biggest emitters to be coming together and announcing concrete numbers, serious numbers, sends a signal to the world,” said David B. Sandalow, who was Mr. Obama’s assistant secretary of energy for policy and international affairs until May 2013. Nearly two decades ago, the world’s first climate change treaty, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, failed to stop the rise of planet-warming carbon pollution in large part because of a standoff between China and the United States, which never signed the deal.
“世界上最大的排放国携手合作，提出具体的数字，严肃的数字，这向全世界传递了一个信号，”戴维·B·桑德罗(David B. Sandalow)说。他曾是奥巴马政府负责政策与国际事务的能源部助理部长，2013年5月卸任。近20年前，世界上出炉了第一份气候变化条约——1997年签订的《京都议定书》(Kyoto Protocol)——但它未能阻止令全球变暖的碳排放的增长，一大原因就是中美两国的僵持不下。美国始终未能批准这份议定书。
But experts and negotiators cautioned that the emissions reductions targets now put forth by the two countries will not be enough to prevent an increase in global atmospheric temperature of 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 Fahrenheit. That is the point where scientists say the planet will tip into a future of dangerous and irreversible warming, which will include the loss of vast stretches of arable land, rapid melting of Arctic sea ice, rising sea levels, extreme droughts, storms and flooding.
不过，专家和谈判官员提醒，美中两国目前提出的减排目标仍不足以阻止全球大气温度升高2摄氏度，即3.6华氏度。科学家们称，在大气温度升高2摄氏度之后，地球将会陷入一个危险而不可逆转的变暖过程，后果包括大量耕地的消失、北冰洋海冰迅速融化、海平面上升、极端干旱、风暴和洪灾。
Under the Kyoto plan, developed economies, including the United States, were to slash their fossil fuel emissions, while developing countries like China were exempt. The United States refused to ratify the treaty, while China went on to become the world’s largest carbon polluter. In the following years, the superpowers remained at an impasse over climate change. Many other governments also refused to cut emissions, arguing that if the world’s top two polluters were not acting, they shouldn’t have to, either.
根据《京都议定书》的安排，包括美国在内的发达经济体需大幅减少化石燃料的排放，而中国这样的发展中国家则可以免除这项义务。美国国会拒绝批准该协议，而中国后来成了世界上最大的碳排放国。在随后的岁月里，这两个超级大国在气候变化问题上始终僵持不下。许多其他国家的政府也拒绝减排，援引的理由是，如果世界上两个最大的排放国不行动，自己也没必要这么做。
A series of scientific and economic reports have concluded that in order to avoid the 2-degree temperature rise, the world’s largest economies will have to drastically cut carbon emissions within just a few years — a rate far more rapid than what the United States and China have offered. At the same time, experts negotiating the Paris deal say that an essential component of the treaty will be a tax on industries for their carbon emissions — an idea that remains a political nonstarter in the United States.
一系列科学和经济报告的结论认为，为了避免气温出现2摄氏度的上升，世界上最大的几个经济体必须在未来几年内大幅减排——力度要远大于美国和中国此次提出的目标。与此同时，正在商讨巴黎协议的专家们表示，协议的核心组成部分，将是对各行业的碳排放征税——这个想法在美国始终是政治上的禁区。
Many experts also criticized China’s target of reaching a peak in its carbon emissions by 2030 as little more than business as usual.
许多专家还批评，中国提出的在2030年使碳排放达到峰值的目标，比依照目前的趋势来排放好不了多少。
Many other major emitters — including Australia, India and Russia, as well as petrostates like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, whose economies depend on continued markets for fossil fuels — do not appear likely to offer up similar targets anytime soon.
其他的许多主要排放国，似乎不太可能在短时间内提出类似的目标。这其中包括澳大利亚、印度和俄罗斯，以及经济发展需要依赖化石燃料市场长期存在的沙特阿拉伯和委内瑞拉等产油国家。
As a result, architects of the Paris agreement are adjusting their expectations. Laurence Tubiana, France’s climate change ambassador to the United Nations and a central figure in efforts to forge the Paris deal, said that she does not expect the Paris deal to resemble a traditional top-down United Nations treaty. Instead, she anticipates that it will resemble a collection of targets pledged by individual countries, along with commitments from each government to follow through with domestic action.
因此，巴黎协议的起草者正在调整他们的期望值。法国驻联合国气候变化大使、推动协议的中心人物洛朗斯·蒂比亚纳(Laurence Tubiana)称，她认为巴黎协议不会类似于传统的自上而下的联合国条约。她预计，这份协议会是各国设定的减排目标的集合体，加上各国政府做出的通过国内行动来达成这些目标的承诺。
Rather than a treaty, Ms. Tubiana said she envisions a deal called the “Paris Alliance” — a name that she said conveys “all the countries working together.” She also said that she does not see the 2015 Paris deal as the final effort on climate change. Rather, she hopes that it will be the first in an ongoing series of summit meetings at which alliance members reconvene to pledge further reduction targets.
蒂比亚纳表示，她认为各国可能不会签订条约，而是达成一项名为“巴黎联盟”(Paris Alliance)的协议——她说这个名称能获得“所有共同合作的国家”的共鸣。她还表示，她并不认为2015年的巴黎协议将是各国为了应对气候变化所做的最后努力。相反，她希望它将成为未来一系列峰会的起点。在接下来的会议中，联盟的各成员国将继续聚集在一起，设定进一步的减排目标。
Negotiators are also acknowledging that in failing to stave off a 2-degree Celsius temperature rise, a 2015 deal must include provisions to help poor countries adapt to the consequences of climate change, such as droughts, floods and extreme weather. When Hillary Rodham Clinton was secretary of state, she pledged that the United States would help mobilize the flow of $100 billion annually from rich countries to poor countries by 2020 for a United Nations Green Climate Fund.
各方协商代表也承认，若是不能成功守住气温升幅在2摄氏度以内的目标，2015年的协议中必须包括一些帮助贫穷国家适应气候变化所带来的后果的条款，例如适应干旱、洪水和极端天气。希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)担任美国国务卿期间，她曾承诺美国将协助这一进程——到2020年，每年帮联合国绿色气候基金(Green Climate Fund)从富裕国家筹措1000亿美元（约合6100亿元人民币）经费，用以资助贫穷国家。
Rich countries will meet next week in Berlin to formally announce their pledges, but so far they are far short of the $100 billion goal.
富裕国家将于下周在柏林会晤，正式宣布他们的承诺金额。不过目前看来，距离1000亿美元的目标还很遥远。
In the meantime it remains unclear how the agreement between the United States and China will influence other major emitters.
同时，目前还不清楚美国与中国达成的协议会对其他主要排放国产生何种影响。
In India, the world’s third-largest carbon polluter, the government of President Narendra Modi has signaled that it will not announce a target for specific emissions cuts. India has long maintained that it should not be required to commit to such cuts.
在世界第三大碳排放国印度，总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)领导的政府已表示不会宣布明确的减排目标。长期以来，印度一直认为，他国不应该强求自己做出此类承诺。