BEIJING — The Obama administration said Tuesday that it had achieved a breakthrough in negotiations with China to eliminate tariffs on an array of information technology products, from video-game consoles and computer software to medical equipment and semiconductors.
北京——奥巴马政府周二表示，美国与中国就免除一系列信息技术产品关税的谈判取得了突破性进展，产品范围包括从视频游戏设备和计算机软件，到医疗设备和半导体。
The understanding, reached during a visit to China by President Obama, opens the door to expanding a World Trade Organization treaty on these products, assuming other countries can be persuaded to accept the same terms. American officials predicted a broader deal would be reached swiftly now that it had resolved longstanding hurdles with China.
在奥巴马总统访问中国期间达成的这一谅解，为扩大针对这类产品的一项世贸组织条约的覆盖范围铺平了道路，如果其他国家能被说服接受相同条款的话。美国官员预测，解决了与中国谈判的长期障碍之后，达成更广泛的条约将会为时不远。
“We’re going to take what’s been achieved here in Beijing back to Geneva to work with our W.T.O. partners,” Michael B. Froman, the United States trade representative, told reporters. “While we don’t take anything for granted, we’re hopeful that we’ll be able to work quickly” to conclude an expansion of the treaty, known as the Information Technology Agreement.
美国贸易代表迈克尔·B·弗罗曼(Michael B. Froman)对记者说，“我们将把在北京取得的成果带回日内瓦，与我们的世贸组织伙伴一起努力。虽然我们不认为任何东西将会理所当然，但我们希望我们将尽快实现”缔结名为信息技术协议(Information Technology Agreement)的扩展条约。
The breakthrough is likely to be the most tangible economic outcome of Mr. Obama’s visit to China, though American officials are holding out hope that he and President Xi Jinping will also make progress in developing a common position on the reduction of carbon emissions.
这一突破很可能是奥巴马访问中国取得的最实在的经济成果，虽然美国官员对取得更多成果抱有希望，他们希望奥巴马和中国国家主席习近平也能在达成减少碳排放的共同立场上有所进展。
Mr. Obama is scheduled to hold his first one-on-one meeting of this trip with Mr. Xi on Tuesday evening at a private dinner. 
按计划，奥巴马将在周二的私人晚餐上举行此次行程的首次与习近平的单独见面。
Speaking Tuesday at a session of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Beijing, Mr. Obama credited the group with originating the work on reducing technology tariffs and said, “It is fitting that we are here with our APEC colleagues to share the news that the United States and China have reached an understanding that we hope will contribute to a rapid conclusion of the broader negotiations in Geneva.”
奥巴马周二在北京召开的亚太经合组织论坛的一个会场上发表演讲，他称赞该组织开启了降低技术产品关税的工作，他说，“我们在这里，与我们的亚太经济合作组织同事一起，分享这个消息，是十分恰当的。美国和中国已经达成谅解，我们希望这将有助于迅速完成日内瓦的更广泛谈判。”
Talks with China over expanding the 1997 treaty on information technology broke down last year over the scope of the products covered by the agreement. But after intensive negotiations leading up to Mr. Obama’s visit, Mr. Froman said, the Americans and Chinese agreed Monday evening to eliminate more than 200 categories of tariffs.
与中国就扩大1997年的信息技术条约进行的谈判，去年曾因覆盖的产品范围问题一度中断。但是，弗罗曼说，经过奥巴马访华前的紧张谈判，美国和中国在周一晚同意免除200多类产品的关税。
While the United States still exports many high-technology goods, China is the world’s dominant exporter overall of electronics and has much to gain from an elimination of tariffs.
虽然美国仍出口许多高技术产品，但中国是世界上总体电子产品的主要出口国，将从消除关税上获得很大的利益。
Asian neighbors like Taiwan, South Korea and Japan increasingly find themselves supplying China’s huge electronics industry, deepening their economic dependence on decisions made in Beijing.
中国在亚洲的邻居，比如台湾、韩国和日本，越来越地发现自己成为中国庞大电子产业的供应商，让他们的经济更多地依赖于北京作出的决定。
“With so many new products created since the I.T.A. was concluded two decades ago, expanding the agreement’s coverage is imperative,” said Myron Brilliant, the head of international affairs of the United States Chamber of Commerce. “With trade in tech goods surpassing $4 trillion annually, the commercial significance of these negotiations is obvious.”
“自从20年前缔结了信息技术协议以来，已出现了这么多的新产品，扩大协议的覆盖范围势在必行，”美国商会负责国际事务的高级副会长薄迈伦(Myron A. Brilliant)说。“随着技术产品贸易额超过每年4万亿美元（约合24.5万亿元人民币），这些谈判的商业意义显而易见。”
At a news briefing, Mr. Froman said negotiators had also made progress on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a regional trade pact that is a centerpiece of Mr. Obama’s strategic shift to Asia.
弗罗曼在新闻发布会上表示，谈判者也在跨太平洋伙伴关系问题上取得进展，该区域贸易协定是奥巴马向亚洲战略转移的一个核心部分。