President Obama’s top climate change negotiator met with his Chinese counterpart in Los Angeles on Tuesday to announce joint actions by cities, states and provinces in both countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
美国总统奥巴马的气候变化谈判首席代表周二在洛杉矶与他的中国同行一起宣布，两国的城市、州或省将采取联合行动，努力减少温室气体的排放。
The summit meeting followed a historic accord reached in Beijing in November by Mr. Obama and President Xi Jinping, who pledged to enact policies to cut emissions significantly. Mr. Obama said the United States would reduce planet-warming carbon emissions up to 28 percent by 2025, while Mr. Xi vowed that China would halt its emissions growth by 2030.
这次气候领导峰会之前，奥巴马和中国国家主席习近平曾于去年11月在北京达成历史性协议，承诺将制定大力减排的政策。奥巴马当时表示，美国将在2025年实现把温室气体二氧化碳的排放量减低28％的目标，习近平则承诺，中国将在2030年左右停止二氧化碳排放量的增长。
That announcement by the world’s two biggest greenhouse gas polluters was seen as a breakthrough after decades of deadlock on efforts to forge an effective global accord on climate change. Now Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi are pushing for completion of such a deal, signed by every nation on earth, at a United Nations summit meeting in Paris this fall.
世界上这两个最大的温室气体排放国的宣布，被看作是打破了几十年来，人们为应对气候变化努力达成有效的全球协议上所面临的僵局。如今，奥巴马和习近平正在推动这个协议的最终达成，地球上的所有国家都将于今秋在巴黎召开的联合国气候大会上签署协议。
White House officials said Tuesday’s meeting was intended to demonstrate that both countries were moving forward to meet the terms of their agreement. Last month, Mr. Obama unveiled a sweeping regulation aimed at forcing heavily polluting power plants to cut emissions, and the United States and China have submitted details of their national plans to the United Nations.
白宫官员说，周二峰会的目的是，表明中美两国都在为落实他们协议的条款而向前迈进。上个月，奥巴马公布了一项影响广泛的法规，目的是迫使污染严重的发电厂减少温室气体排放，美国和中国还分别向联合国提交了各自的详细减排方案。
Brian Deese, Mr. Obama’s senior adviser on climate change, said the additional actions from cities, states and provinces could add momentum to those efforts. The administration also hopes that the announcements will quiet critics who say any climate deal will hamstring the United States and cede an economic advantage to China.
奥巴马在气候变化方面的高级顾问布莱恩·迪斯(Brian Deese)表示，城市、州或省层面的更多行动可能会增加这种努力的势头。奥巴马政府也希望上述宣布将平息某些批评意见，有人认为，任何形式的气候变化协议将会束缚美国的手脚，把发展经济的优势让给中国。
“Last year was about the U.S. and China making those commitments,” Mr. Deese said. “This year, having made those commitments, needs to be a year of implementation, as our two countries demonstrate commitment to implement those goals with concrete steps.”
“去年是美国和中国作出这些承诺的一年，”迪斯说。“既然作出了这些承诺，今年就需要成为实施的一年，需要我们两国在采取具体步骤实现目标上，对承诺有所体现。”
The choice of Los Angeles for the meeting was no coincidence. California has by far the most aggressive state-level climate change policy in the country. The state, which has an economy larger than that of all but a handful of countries, has put in place a “cap and trade” system, in which an overall limit is imposed on greenhouse gas pollution, and companies buy and sell permits to pollute.
把洛杉矶选为召开峰会的地方并非巧合。加利福尼亚在美国各州应对气候变化问题上遥遥领先，有最强大的州级的政策。加州的经济规模比世界上绝大多数国家的都大，只比少数国家的小，加州已建立了一个限额与交易体系，对温室气体的总排放量加以限制，让公司在体系内购买或销售它们的排放许可。
Other states, including nine in the Northeast, also have cap-and-trade programs, but Republicans and some Democrats in Congress have successfully pushed against a national system. In its submission to the United Nations, the Chinese government noted that it was considering a national cap-and-trade system, and seven Chinese provinces have pilot programs.
虽然包括美国东北部九个州在内的其他州也有自己的限额与交易计划，但国会中的共和党人和一些民主党人已成功地阻止了一个全国性体系的建立。中国政府在提交给联合国的方案中表示，正在考虑一个国家层面的限额与交易体系，七个中国省份已有自己的试点项目。
On Tuesday, the two nations announced an arrangement between government entities in China and California to begin working toward devising cap-and-trade programs in China. Several American climate policy experts have said they envision a future in which California’s cap-and-trade market could be linked with China’s regional cap-and-trade markets.
周二，中美两国还宣布一项中国省市级政府与加州政府之间的协议，将开始为在中国国内制定限额与交易计划展开工作。一些美国气候政策专家表示，他们设想，在未来，加州的限额与交易市场可以与中国的区域性限额与交易市场联接起来。
In addition, the leaders of 11 Chinese cities, including Beijing, announced plans to reach their emissions peak earlier than the national target of 2030. Combined, those cities have the same annual level of emissions as Brazil or Japan, according to White House officials. Ten cities from China will team with 10 from California in a separate initiative that aims to reduce air pollution and attract clean-technology industries.
此外，来自包括北京在内的中国11个城市的领导人宣布，将在全国碳排放量达到峰值的目标年2030年之前，提前实现让自己城市的排放量达到峰值的计划。据白宫官员说，这些城市加起来的总排放量与巴西或日本的年度排放量相当。在另一项单独的协议中，中国的10个城市将分别与美国加州的10个城市，就减少空气污染、吸引清洁技术行业展开合作。
The meeting was attended by Todd Stern, the United States’ senior climate change negotiator, and Xie Zhenhua, China’s special representative for climate change affairs, as well as American mayors and governors, Chinese mayors and other municipal leaders, and Chinese climate change officials.
参加这次峰会的人有，美国气候变化特使托德·斯特恩(Todd Stern)和中国气候变化事务特别代表解振华、美国的市长和州长、中国的市长及其他市领导，以及中国应对气候变化的官员。
While the United States, China and more than 40 other countries have submitted their plans to cut carbon pollution ahead of the Paris meeting, other major polluters, including India and Brazil, have yet to do so. United Nations officials have said that for the Paris deal to work, the plans must be submitted by October.
虽然美国、中国等40多个国家已经在巴黎会议之前，提交了他们的二氧化碳减排方案，但包括印度和巴西在内的其他主要污染国还没有提交。联合国官员说，如果要在巴黎会议上达成协议的话，各国必须在10月底前提交计划。
In Washington, Republican leaders are working to block the deal. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has begun reaching out to other countries to tell them that he is doing all he can to halt Mr. Obama’s climate change regulations, and thus prevent the United States from meeting its United Nations obligation.
在华盛顿，共和党领导人正在努力阻止巴黎协议的达成。参议院共和党领袖、来自肯塔基州的米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)已经开始与其他国家的领导人接触，告诉他们，他正在尽自己所能来阻止奥巴马的气候变化法规，从而让美国不能落实其向联合国承担的义务。