WARSAW — Discord and rivalry between Beijing and Washington have factored in international discussions of global warming since the United Nations climate treaty was established in 1992, contributing to the foundering of the 2009 talks in Copenhagen and much rough sailing since.
华沙——自1992年的联合国(United Nations)气候条约拟定以来，中美两国政府间的矛盾和对抗一直在对关于全球变暖的国际讨论产生影响，不仅是2009年哥本哈根会谈破裂的原因之一，还大大增加了其后会谈的难度。
But with China having recently surpassed the United States as the world’s largest emitter of greenhouse gases, the countries are finding that their interests increasingly overlap, climate experts and government officials say. The more productive relationship is raising hopes that the friction of recent years might be easing, paving the way to a new global climate change treaty in 2015.
但是，气候专家和政府官员表示，随着中国最近超越美国成为世界上最大的温室气体排放国，两国开始认识到，彼此利益的重合部分正变得越来越大。人们由此期望，这种更具建设性的关系或许会减轻近年来的摩擦，为2015年达成新的全球气候变化条约铺平道路。
International delegates have been meeting in Warsaw to negotiate the provisions of that treaty. The conference is scheduled to end on Friday.
各国代表目前正在华沙就该条约的条款进行协商。此次会议将于周五结束。
Zhang Haibin, a professor of international relations at Peking University who has served as an adviser to China’s Ministry of Commerce, said that while climate cooperation with the United States remained difficult, there appeared at the very least to be a tacit agreement not to torpedo the talks. That represents progress.
曾担任中国商务部顾问的北京大学国际关系学院教授张海滨说，虽然与美国在气候方面的合作仍难以进行，但双方似乎至少是达成了不损害会谈的默契。这就是进步。
At the government level, “I think there is some convergence,” Mr. Zhang said. “They can speak a common language about this.”
从政府层面而言，“我认为存在一些交集，”张海滨说。“他们在这个问题上可以找到共同语言。”
The countries are driven by compelling domestic constraints as well as a desire not to be seen by other nations as superpolluting superpowers that scuttled an international deal. China suffers from choking pollution produced by its hundreds of coal-fired power plants and has invested billions of dollars in alternative energy sources to power its growing cities. The Obama administration, facing court orders and pressure from environmental and public health groups, is writing rules to clean up existing coal-burning power plants and essentially bar the construction of new ones.
推动两国的因素是两国面临的国内限制愈加严厉，又不愿让其他国家觉得它们是破坏国际协议的高污染超级大国。中国的数百座燃煤发电厂所产生的污染几乎让人窒息，为了给日益膨胀的城市提供能源，中国还在新能源方面投入了数十亿美元。奥巴马政府面临着法院命令及环保和公共健康组织压力，目前正在制定规则来净化现有的燃煤发电厂，并且原则上禁止建设新的燃煤发电厂。
The cooperative spirit has been on display this year in an agreement by President Obama and President Xi Jinping to work together to phase down the use of hydrofluorocarbons, a family of potent greenhouse gases widely used in propellants and refrigeration. Secretary of State John Kerry in April announced formation of a new U.S.-China climate change working group.
今年，奥巴马总统和习近平主席达成一致，要通过共同努力来逐步减少氢氟烃的使用，此举体现了两国的合作精神。氢氟烃是一类强效温室气体，在推进剂和冷却剂中有广泛应用。4月，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)宣布将成立一个新的中美气候变化工作组。
“The United States and China are absolutely essential” to this process,” Christiana Figueres, the head of the United Nations climate convention, said in an interview. “No agreement will move forward without their participation.” There remain formidable impediments to reaching a 2015 deal in Paris, where negotiators will try to fashion a new agreement to replace the moribund Kyoto Protocol. Among them, of course, are the very commitments that countries are willing to make to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, when they fear that doing so could slow economic growth. Also at issue are questions of so-called climate justice, that is, who should pay for the climate-related damages and how much should be diverted from rich to poor countries to protect against the inevitable losses from rising seas and violent storms. These are the fraught questions under discussion here in Warsaw this week where the 195 members of the U.N. climate treaty are meeting to map a path to a new accord.
对于这一进程，“中美两国的作用绝对至关重要，”联合国气候大会负责人克里斯蒂安娜·菲格雷斯(Christiana Figueres)在采访中说。“没有他们的参与，任何协议都不会有进展。”2015年的协议将在巴黎拟定；届时，协商者将努力制定一个新协议来取代行将就木的《京都议定书》(Kyoto Protocol)。但是，协议的达成还面临着一些巨大的障碍。当然，障碍之一就是，在担心减排温室气体会延缓经济增长的情况下，各国是否还愿意作出减排承诺。另一个问题就是所谓的气候公平，也就是说，谁应该对与气候相关的损失负责，富裕国家又该向贫穷国家提供多少资金和物资，以便减少海平面上升和剧烈风暴所造成的不可避免的损失。本周，联合国气候条约的195个成员国在华沙聚集，他们将对前述难题进行讨论，并找到达成新协议的路径。
But it is the confluence of those two issues – emissions reductions and financing for climate adaptation - that has so far frustrated the United States and other developed nations in its dealings with China.
但是，到目前为止，让美国及其他发达国家在与中国打交道时感到头痛的是两个交织在一起的问题：减排问题，以及气候适应的资金来源问题。
Despite the fact that China is the world’s second-largest economy and the largest greenhouse gas polluter, it is treated under the rules of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change as though it were the relatively poor developing country it was in 1992, when the treaty was established. China has until now allied itself with the poorest African countries and most vulnerable island states in demanding a separate set of rules and obligations than those that apply to the United States, Japan, Australia, Canada and Europe.
中国虽然是世界第二大经济体及第一大温室气体排放国，但却仍然适用于《联合国气候变化框架公约》(United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change)的规定，似乎它仍然是1992年制定条约时那个相对贫困的发展中国家。中国至今还在向那些最贫穷的非洲国家及最易受灾害影响的岛国看齐，要求为自己设定单独的规则和责任，不愿承担与美国、日本、澳大利亚、加拿大及欧洲相同的责任。
The United States argues that those categories (annexes, in the treaty’s terms) are outmoded in a world when developing nations will soon surpass the developed world in emissions, and China will soon be the largest emitter in cumulative historical terms.
美国辩称，从目前的情况来看，发展中国家的排放量将很快超过发达国家，中国将很快成为历史累积排放量最大的国家，有鉴于此，这种分类（按条约术语来说则是“附录”）已经过时了。
“They do a lot,” Todd D. Stern, the United States climate envoy, said in Warsaw this week, describing Chinese actions to slow its pollution. “I’m not criticizing China. The question is what they’re prepared to agree to.”
“他们做了很多，”本周提到中国减污举措的时候，美国气候变化特使托德·D·斯特恩(Todd D. Stern)说。“我不是在批评中国，问题是他们准备答应什么。”
However, he added, the Chinese “can’t say both that the annexes are operational in terms of who does what and that they are immutable from 1992.”
但他还表示，中国“不能说附录规定的各国责任仍然可行，也不能说1992年制定的附录不可改变。”
As a practical matter, those distinctions make it less likely that the United States Senate, wary about the economic impact of an agreement, would ratify any eventual treaty that does not treat the largest polluters equally.
实际问题是，这些差异致使美国参议院更不可能批准没有对最大污染国一视同仁的任何最终条约，因为他们对协议带来的经济影响存有戒心。
Xie Zhenhua, China’s chief climate negotiator, acknowledged at a press conference in Warsaw this week that China is now the world’s largest source of carbon emissions, a result of the country’s rapid industrialization.
本周在华沙参加新闻发布会时，中国气候谈判首席代表解振华承认，由于快速的工业化发展，中国已经成为世界第一大碳排放国。
But he said China was slowing the rate of growth of its emissions and would not wait until its people had reached the living standard of wealthier countries before taking more substantial measures to cut pollution.
但他表示，中国正在减缓排放增加的速度，不会等中国人民达到富裕国家生活标准之后才采取更多的实质性减排措施。
He reaffirmed the principle of separate responsibilities for rich and poor countries, but also signalled that China would work toward a treaty that provided benefits to all parties, rather than punishesione group of nations to reward others.
他重申了富国和穷国责任有别的原则，但也表示中国将致力于达成一个对各方都有利的条约，而不是惩罚一些国家，奖励另一些国家。
“We hope that in the climate negotiations there won’t be some countries win while some countries lose. We want everyone to win,” Mr. Xie said. “If in these negotiations some countries win and some lose, then the outcome will be a failure. “ Robert N. Stavins, director of the Harvard University Project on Climate Agreements, said that a more cooperative approach by China would be a major boost to prospects for a new treaty, especially if it helped persuade other emerging economies like Brazil, India and South Africa to join.
“我们希望气候谈判不会出现一些国家赢、一些国家输的情况，”解振华说，“我们认为多边机制的结果如果是一些国家赢、一些国家输，那么这个结果是失败的。”哈佛大学气候协议项目(University Project on Climate Agreements)主任罗伯特·N·斯塔文斯(Robert N. Stavins)表示，中国如果采取更加合作的态度，将会是达成新条约的重要助力，如果中国能帮助说服巴西、印度及南非等新兴经济体加入进来，情况还会更好。
“If the 20th century was the American century, a lot of people expect the 21st century to be the Chinese century,” Mr. Stavins said. “And if it’s your century, you don’t obstruct, you lead.”
“如果说20世纪是属于美国的世纪，很多人都预测21世纪将是属于中国的世纪，”斯塔文斯说。“既然这是属于你的世纪，你就不应该阻挠，应该起带头作用。”