SEOUL, South Korea — As a new set of sanctions against North Koreacirculated at the United Nations Security Council, analysts in South Korea and China expressed doubts on Friday that the measures would be tough enough to force the pariah state to give up its nuclear weapons.
韩国首尔——随着一份有关对朝新制裁的草案在联合国安理会传阅，韩国和中国的分析人士在周五发出了质疑的声音，不确定此举是否足够强硬到迫使这个孤立的国家放弃核武器的地步。
The United States presented a draft resolution it had negotiated with China to the Security Council on Thursday, calling for wide-ranging penalties against North Korea for a nuclear test it conducted on Jan. 6 and for its launching of a long-range rocket a month later, both of which violated previous council resolutions.
美国于上周四向安理会提交了与中国商议达成的决议草案，呼吁就朝鲜在1月6日进行核试验及一个月后发射远程火箭的行为对其实施广泛制裁。这些行为违反了安理会之前做出的决议。
The draft contained the most comprehensive and toughest sanctions against the isolated country that the council has ever considered. There was no doubt that they would squeeze North Korea’s ability to raise funds for its weapons programs, depending on how vigorously China, the North’s single largest trade partner, enforced the sanctions, analysts said.
该草案包含安理会历年来考虑的对这个孤立国家实施的最全面、最严厉的制裁。分析人士表示，毫无疑问，这些举措会削弱朝鲜为核计划筹款的能力，具体取决于朝鲜最大的贸易伙伴中国实施制裁的力度。
If adopted, the resolution would require United Nations member states to inspect all cargo passing through their territories to or from North Korea for illicit goods. It would also attempt to limit North Korea’s sale of minerals, especially coal and iron ore, two of its most important exports.
如果获得通过，该决议将要求联合国各成员国检查所有经由本国的朝鲜进出口货物是否包含违法货物。该决议还会努力限制朝鲜的矿产资源的销售，特别是煤炭和铁矿石这两大出口支柱。
But the draft contained no effective sanctions against a booming trade across the relatively porous 870-mile border between China and North Korea — a lifeline not only for the impoverished North Korean people but also for their government’s ability to earn cash. Nor did it require countries, especially China, to cut off oil exports to the North.
中朝之间的边境线长达1400公里，管控相对松散，贸易日益繁荣。这是一贫如洗的朝鲜民众及该国政府重要的救生索，但该决议并不包含针对此类贸易的有效制裁。决议亦没有要求各个国家，特别是中国，中断对朝鲜的石油出口。
It would also not affect tens of thousands of North Korean workers at factories, construction sites and logging camps in China, Russia, Africa and the Middle East. According to some estimates, they send home $200 million to $300 million a year, most of which human rights groups contend ends up in the coffers of the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un.
这份决议也不会影响在中国、俄罗斯、非洲及中东地区的工厂、建筑工地及伐木场工作的数以万计的朝鲜劳工。根据一些估计，他们每年向朝鲜寄回2至3亿美元的资金。人权组织认为其中大部分最终流入了朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的金库。
“These sanctions will certainly hurt the North,” said Koh Yu-hwan, a professor at Dongguk University in Seoul. “But I don’t think they will hurt them enough to abandon their nuclear weapons.”
“这些制裁肯定会对朝鲜造成损害，”首尔东国大学(Dongguk University)教授高有焕(Koh Yu-hwan)说。“但我觉得力度不够，无法迫使朝鲜放弃核武器。”
Analysts in China said Beijing’s approval of the sanctions proposed by the United States was the result of a complex calculus by Communist Party leaders. A factor that has loomed large for them in recent weeks is plans by Washington to deploy an antiballistic missile system, called Thaad, in South Korea. Chinese officials are seeking ways to prevent that from happening.
中国的分析人士表示，北京支持美国提出的这些制裁举措是共产党领导人经过复杂考量做出的决定。对于他们来说，最近几周比较突出的因素就是华盛顿提出的在韩国部署末段高空区域防御系统——简称“萨德”(Thaad)——的计划。中国官方正在想方设法地阻止此事成真。
“If it was not for the Thaad issue, there might not be such cooperation between China and the U.S.,” said Shen Dingli, a professor of international relations at Fudan University in Shanghai. “By doing this, it is still possible for China to dissuade the Americans from deploying Thaad at China’s doorstep.”
“如果没有萨德的问题，可能就不会有中美的这个合作，”上海复旦大学国际关系学院教授沈丁立说。“做了这个之后，中国就还有可能让美国不要在中国家门口部署萨德。”
China’s agreement to limit imports of North Korean coal and iron ore, for example, came with an important caveat: It should be demonstrated that such imports would support illicit North Korean activities. North Korea’s minerals, mainly its coal and iron ore, accounted for 53 percent of its $2.8 billion in exports to China in 2014, according to data compiled by the government-run Korea Institute for National Unification in Seoul.
例如，中国同意限制进口朝鲜的煤炭和铁矿石，但同时提出一条重要警告：应该证明此类进口产品会助长朝鲜的违法活动。韩国官方机构韩国统一研究院(Korea Institute for National Unification)提供的数据显示，2014年，朝鲜对中国的出口额为28亿美元，其中53%来自矿物——主要是煤炭和铁矿石。
But because of a slowing Chinese economy and sharp declines in global prices, those coal and iron ore exports have been decreasing since 2013. North Korea has already begun making up for the shortfall by exporting more workers abroad, the analyst Lee Seok said in a report published by the Korea Institute last month. The workers have therefore become an increasingly important source of cash for the North Korean government.
不过，由于中国经济发展放缓，加上全球价格大幅下滑，朝鲜的煤炭和铁矿石出口自2013年以来不断减少。分析人士李硕（Lee Seok，音）在该研究院上个月公布的报告中称，朝鲜已经开始通过输出更多劳工来弥补这一损失。这些劳工因此成为朝鲜政府越来越重要的资金来源。
Nor would the proposed sanctions affect North Korea’s growing business of making clothes on contracts from Chinese companies. North Korean textile exports to China expanded to $741 million in 2014 from $186 million in 2010, and the goods are made mostly at factories run by the North Korean military or the ruling Workers’ Party, analysts and officials in Seoul said.
相关制裁也不会影响朝鲜不断增长的一项业务——与中国公司达成的制衣合同。首尔的分析人士及官员表示，朝鲜对中国的纺织品出口额从2010年的1.86亿美元增至2014年的7.41亿美元，而这些出口商品主要由朝鲜军队或执政的劳动党开设的工厂生产。
“There are still too many loopholes for us to predict that they will lead to North Korea’s denuclearization,” said Chang Yong-seok, an analyst at the Institute for Peace and Unification Studies at Seoul National University. “These sanctions are more like a warning to the North about how much more it could suffer if it conducted another nuclear test, and an inducement for the country to return to the negotiating table.”
“还是有很多漏洞，所以无法预言这些举措会促使朝鲜实现去核化，”首尔大学和平与统一研究中心(Institute for Peace and Unification Studies at Seoul National University)的分析人士张永石(Chang Yong-seok)说。“这些制裁更像是对朝鲜的警告，告诉朝鲜如果再次开展核试验会带来什么样的后果，也像是在劝诱朝鲜回到谈判桌。”
Currently, an estimated 75 percent of North Korea’s foreign trade, including almost all of its oil imports, is with China, providing Beijing with unique economic leverage over the North. The two-way trade amounted to $5.5 billion last year, according to figures from Chinese customs authorities.
目前，朝鲜大约75%的对外贸易是与中国开展的，其中几乎所有石油均从中国进口。这使得北京拥有对朝鲜独一无二的经济影响力。中国海关的数据显示，中朝的双向贸易去年达到55亿美元。
But China’s approach on how to solve the North Korean problem is fundamentally different from that of the United States or South Korea. It insists that sanctions should not aim to push North Korea toward instability but to induce it back to the negotiating table.
不过，中国解决朝鲜问题的方法与美国或韩国的方法有着本质上的区别。中国坚持认为，制裁的目的不应该是致使朝鲜陷入动荡，而是要说服它回到谈判桌。
After negotiating the proposed sanctions with his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, Secretary of State John Kerry said on Tuesday that North Korea could ultimately have a peace agreement with the United States “if it will come to the table and negotiate the denuclearization.”
在与中国外交部长王毅商讨完制裁提议后，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在上周二表示，“如果朝鲜愿意回到谈判桌，讨论去核化问题”，朝鲜有可能最终会与美国达成和平协议。
North Korea has been hit with a series of ever-tightening sanctions because of its nuclear tests and rocket launches since 2006. But the effect on one of the world’s least trade-dependent economies has been limited, especially when China has opposed crippling penalties.
自2006年以来，朝鲜因为多次进行核试验和发射火箭的行为受到一系列愈发严厉的制裁。但朝鲜是世界上对贸易依赖程度最小的国家之一，这种制裁的效果有限，特别是在中国反对严厉处罚的情况下。
The government has learned to shift the pain of international sanctions to its people by squeezing the resources available for the poor, while the elite has remained intact, defectors from the country have said.
脱北者说，政府已经学会了挤压穷人的资源，把国际制裁的痛苦转嫁到公众身上，权贵阶层依然不受影响。
Still, the proposed sanctions, especially mandatory inspections of all cargo, would make it harder for North Korea to raise funds and import technology for its nuclear and ballistic missile programs, analysts said. Until now, countries were required to inspect North Korean cargo only if they had reasonable grounds to believe it contained illicit items.
但是分析人士说，拟议中的制裁，尤其是对所有货物进行强制检查的条款，将让朝鲜更难为核计划和弹道导弹计划筹集资金和引进技术。迄今为止，其他国家只有在有合理的依据，怀疑朝鲜货物中含有违禁物品时，才会对其进行检查。
The proposed resolution would also ban countries from selling to the North all small arms and other conventional weapons, as well as dual-use nuclear and missile-related goods and items like trucks that could be converted for military use. It would also ban the sales of aviation and rocket fuel to hurt the North Korean military’s ability to conduct regular drills. The resolution is also expected to expand the list of luxury goods countries are banned from selling to the North.
拟议的决议也将禁止各国向朝鲜出售任何小型武器和其他常规武器，军民两用核物资，以及与导弹相关的货物和产品，比如可以转而用于军事用途的卡车。禁止销售的还有航空和火箭燃料，目的是削弱朝鲜军方定期演习的能力。该决议还有望扩大禁止对朝鲜销售的奢侈品的清单。
“This could be bad because most of the parts for the nuclear facilities could only come from the outside world,” Wang Junsheng, a researcher on North Korea at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said about the mandatory inspection of cargo.
“影响可能比较大，因为用于核设施的大部分零件可能都只能从外部世界获得，”中国社科院研究朝鲜问题的专家王俊生谈到强制检查货物时表示。
Mr. Wang said negotiations between the United States and China over the terms of the sanctions had dragged on for seven weeks because Washington had wanted Beijing to cut off more trade. That included exports of oil and imports of coal, he said.
王俊生称，美国和中国就制裁条款举行的谈判拖了七周，因为华盛顿想让北京切断更多贸易，包括石油出口和煤炭进口。
But although China was fed up with Mr. Kim’s aggressive and unpredictable behavior, it refused to enshrine those trade limits in the sanctions because energy supplies are tied to the well-being of civilians in North Korea and China — especially important during the harsh winter, he said.
他表示，尽管受够了金正恩咄咄逼人且难以预料的行为，但中国拒绝把这些贸易限制写进制裁文件里，因为能源供应关系到中朝两国民众的福祉，严冬时期尤其重要。