When the game of table tennis became the focus of diplomatic efforts to defuse Cold War tensions between the United States and China, no detail was too small to warrant careful scrutiny. As Nicholas Griffin demonstrates, in a book filled with well-chosen examples, the Chinese team visiting Colonial Williamsburg in 1972 was comfortable eating apple pie and singing “Home on the Range.” But “Row, Row, Row Your Boat” was dicier: the line “life is but a dream” was politically incompatible with the teachings of Chairman Mao. Thanks to some fancy footwork on the part of a translator, the line quickly turned into “life is full of steam.”
当一场乒乓球赛成为消解中美之间冷战紧张局势的外交努力的重点时，没有任何细节小到无需仔细审查的程度，正如尼古拉斯·格里芬(Nicholas Griffin)在一本书中所描述的那样。书中充满了精心挑细的这类例子，比如中国队在1972年访问保持着殖民地气氛的威廉斯堡时，队员们吃苹果派、唱“牧场是我家”(Home on the Range)这首歌没什么问题，但是“划船曲”(Row, Row, Row Your Boat)则有点风险，其中那句“生命不过一场梦”的歌词与毛主席的教导在政治上相悖。多亏一位翻译的巧妙修改，这句歌词被改为“生活处处热烘烘”。
The team was en route from Virginia to Washington to meet President Richard M. Nixon, who had ordered a heavy air assault on the port of Haiphong in North Vietnam, China’s ally. One purpose of Ping-Pong diplomacy, as it came to be known, was its way of spreading good will and distracting both nations from such things.
这个中国球队当时正在从维吉尼亚州去华盛顿的路上，准备接受理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)总统的接见。尼克松刚刚下达了猛烈轰炸越南北方港口海防市的命令，而越南是中国的盟友。这场后来被称为“乒乓外交”的访问的目的之一，就是用这种方式传播美好愿望，让两国都从那种事情上分点心。
As Mr. Griffin explains, the whole idea of Ping-Pong as a political tool can be traced back to one English-born Soviet spy with a passion for the game. Ivor Montagu was born in 1904, a very bad year in Ping-Pong history. The game had been enough of a fad to inspire awful poems (“Pingpongitis” is quoted here) and silly alternative names, among them whiff-whaff and gossima. But the fad “burst like a soap bubble into nothingness” that year, and that wasn’t the worst of it. At the start of the Russo-Japanese War, according to Mr. Griffin, two Russian ships were crippled by Japanese forces because their crews were distracted: “Apparently the Ping-Pong nets were up, all taut and ready: It was only the torpedo nets that had been forgotten.”
如格里芬在书中所写的，把乒乓球作为政治工具的主意，可以追溯到一个出生在英国的苏联间谍身上，他热衷于打乒乓球。伊沃尔·蒙塔古(Ivor Montagu)出生于1904年，对乒乓球历史来说，那是很糟糕的一年。此前发生的对乒乓球的一时狂热已足以引发人们写下贬低这项运动的诗词（书中在此处引用了“Pingpongitis”这首诗）、以及给运动起出各种愚蠢别名，比如“挥夫划夫”(whiff-whaff)和“戈西马”(gossima)。但是，这项一时狂热的运动在1904年“就像肥皂泡一样破裂得无影无踪”，那还不是最糟糕的。格里芬写道，在日俄战争爆发之际，两艘沙俄军舰被日本摧毁，因为军舰上的水手们分了心：“显然乒乓球网已经拉紧就绪，只不过他们忘记了防鱼雷网。”
The first part of “Ping-Pong Diplomacy” describes how Montagu organized and raised the profile of table tennis (which was what the game now had to be called, since “Ping-Pong” was trademarked). But he was a man of many interests, and his others included film production and Stalinism. Montagu was sufficiently multifaceted to baffle MI5 during much of World War II, and the war itself had an ancillary effect of spreading the popularity of table tennis. The Red Cross brought it to P.O.W. camps to offset monumental boredom.
《乒乓外交》 (Ping-Pong Diplomacy)一书的第一部分讲述的是蒙塔古如何组织桌球比赛（自从“乒乓”被注册为商标以来，这项运动的正式名称改为桌球[table tennis]），提升其形象。但他是个兴趣广泛的人，他对制作电影和斯大林主义也很感兴趣。蒙塔古在第二次世界大战期间具有足够多的脸孔，以至于让英国负责国内安全的军情五处(MI5)对他摸不着头脑。而二战本身对桌球的流行起了辅助作用。红十字会将其引进战俘营，来缓解战俘们极度单调的生活。
The book describes Montagu’s reasoning that the game might have a future in Asia. In 1935, it was the 12th most popular athletic activity in China, behind jumping rope and home construction. But with Mao’s rise came an emphasis on physical culture as well as physical labor, and there could be no better game for an airless factory setting. Chinese officials were also intrigued by the way Ichiro Ogimura, known as Ogi, became a Japanese good will ambassador in England despite lingering postwar bitterness, by sheer dint of his prowess and sportsmanship. His 1954 trip to England was a real coup, according to the Japanese news media, “much to the astonishment of those who still think that Japan’s national sports are cherry-blossom viewing and hara-kiri.”
这本书讲述了蒙塔古认为这项运动在亚洲拥有未来的理由。1935年，桌球在中国最受欢迎的体育运动中排名第12，排在跳绳和盖房子之后。但是随着毛泽东的掌权，中国开始强调体育文化和体力劳动，再没有哪项运动比这项更适合不通风的工厂环境了。中国官员也对荻村伊智朗(Ichiro Ogimura)所起的作用很感兴趣，尽管战后的怨恨尚未完全消失，但他凭借高超的技艺以及运动员精神在英国为日本担当了亲善大使。据日本媒体报道，他1954年的英国之行意外地成功，“让那些仍旧认为日本的国民运动是观赏樱花和切腹自杀的人大吃一惊。”
As China’s agricultural policies (defended by Montagu, one of many who chose to override reason for the sake of ideology) led to famine, the idea of a triumphant Ping-Pong team began to seem ever more attractive. Top athletes were given star treatment, even while huge numbers of their countrymen were starving. As Mr. Griffin explains, they may have sensed where this would lead but were too dazzled by the sudden sense of privilege. “The new life was glorious,” one player said. But when Mao’s Great Leap Forward was followed by the Cultural Revolution, these players would pay for their privileges.
随着中国的农业政策导致大饥荒（蒙塔古为这些政策辩护，他是众多的出于意识形态考虑而践踏理性的人之一），拥有一支出类拔萃的乒乓球队的想法似乎变得更具吸引力。尽管他们无数的同胞吃不饱饭，但顶级运动员们被给予明星般的待遇。格里芬写道，他们可能已经感到这会带给他们什么后果，但却被突如其来的特权冲晕了头脑。一名运动员曾说，“这种新生活太美好了。”但是在毛泽东的大跃进之后发生了文化大革命，在那场运动中这些球员为他们的特权付出了代价。
“Ping-Pong Diplomacy” builds up to the events of 1971, when an American team was unexpectedly invited to visit China to participate in a table tennis competition. The book gives considerable credit to President Nixon, Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and Bill Cunningham — a careful China-watcher at the American Embassy in Tokyo who made the quick call that the team’s visit would not violate American foreign policy — for taking advantage of an unforeseen opportunity. Back-channel talks between the two countries had long been underway, with the status of Taiwan a particular sticking point. But the highly publicized visit of these unlikely American emissaries may have accomplished more than years of solemn talks.
《乒乓外交》一书的高潮发生在1971年，当时一个美国球队出乎意料地收到访问中国的邀请，应邀参加一场桌球赛。书中给予尼克松总统、国务卿亨利·A·基辛格(Henry A. Kissinger)以及比尔·坎宁安(Bill Cunningham)相当高的评价，赞扬他们抓住了一个不可预见的机会，特别是坑宁安，他当时是美国驻东京使馆的一名很细心的中国观察家，他迅速做出决定，认为该美国队访华不会违反美国的外交政策。中美两国之间一直在通过一些秘密渠道进行谈判，主要的问题是台湾的地位。然而，在那次被广泛报道的访问中，这些不太可能的美国使者也许实现了比多年的严肃谈判所能得到的更多东西。
Among the many quirks that make Mr. Griffin’s account so interesting is the culture clash that ensued — not between the two teams, but within the group of Americans themselves. After all, this was 1971. Glenn Cowan, the group’s heat-seeking hippie, dressed for a visit to Woodstock and let no occasion for self-promotion go unexploited. He was also quite open about his marijuana use, to the point of oh-wowing about the chickens he met at a Chinese commune. (“They were yellow and really fascinating. You don’t see them at zoos. And they were right up close to me.”)
让格里芬的书十分有趣的是其对许多怪事的描写，其中之一是访问期间发生的文化冲突，不是在两个球队之间，而是在美国队的队员之间。毕竟这是1971年。格伦·考恩(Glenn Cowan)是美国队中追求热闹的嬉皮士，穿着更适合于伍德斯托克音乐节的服装，不放过任何一个表现自己的机会。他对自己抽大麻毫不掩饰，甚至在参观中国的一家人民公社时，由于大麻的影响，他对那里的鸡群“哦哇”不已。（“它们是黄色的，特别有意思。动物园里看不到这种鸡。它们一直走到我跟前儿。”）
Also involved in the same trip were authority figures aghast at Cowan’s antics and a fellow player, John Tannehill, the stern ideologue to Cowan’s show-off. Cowan’s extremely casual approach to chatting with Zhou Enlai is the best-known part of the Ping-Pong diplomacy story.
参加那次行程的还有几位官方人物，他们对考恩的滑稽举止惊惶失色，球队中的另一名球员约翰·坦尼希尔(John Tannehill)则是个严厉的保守者，极不喜欢考恩的炫耀表演。考恩与周恩来交谈时非常随意的风格是那场乒乓外交中最著名的一段轶事。
But in addition to presenting a broad diplomatic tableau and fascinating personal histories, Mr. Griffin is careful to weigh the consequences of what his book describes. Glenn Cowan’s story is ultimately a bleak one, and Mr. Griffin finds a through line connecting those consequences to Ivor Montagu’s original ambitions. “Montagu built Ping-Pong for the state,” he says, “not the individual.”
格里芬除了展现丰富多彩的外交场面以及令人着迷的人物故事之外，还认真分析了他书中描述的故事所产生的后果。虽然格伦·考恩的故事最后是凄凉的，而格里芬则把这些乒乓外交的后果连接起来，以致连到伊沃尔·蒙塔古最初的雄心。他写道，“蒙塔古推行乒乓球为的是国家，而不是个人。”