SÃO PAULO, Brazil — Brazil’s state-controlled oil company Petrobras announced on Wednesday that it was selling all of its Peruvian subsidiary, Petrobras Energia Peru, to the China National Petroleum Company for $2.6 billion.
巴西圣保罗——国有的巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)周三宣布，将把其秘鲁子公司巴西能源秘鲁公司(Petrobras Energia Peru)的全部股份出售给中国石油天然气集团公司，成交价格为26亿美元（约合人民币158亿元）。
The move is aimed at shoring up Petrobras’s balance sheet. The company’s production has been stagnant for years, despite huge offshore discoveries in 2007. The government has also hurt Petrobras’s cash flow by requiring it to sell gas and diesel domestically at below global market prices.
此举旨在改善巴西国家石油公司的资产负债表。尽管2007年在近海发现了大量原油储备，但该公司的生产已经停滞多年。由于政府要求其在国内以低于国际市场价的价格销售汽油和柴油，公司的现金流也受到影响。
Its debt is already nearly 35 percent of its equity, the level at which ratings agencies might downgrade the company. So its ability to raise money from the capital markets is limited.
该公司的债务股本比已经接近35%，这可能会令评级机构下调对该公司的评级。因此，它在资本市场筹集资金的能力也非常有限。
Petrobras announced last year that it would raise $9.9 billion through asset sales. This year, it has already sold small exploration blocks in the Gulf of Mexico. And it sold assets in Africa to the Brazilian investment bank BTG Pactual for $1.49 billion.
巴西国家石油公司去年宣布，将通过出售资产筹集99亿美元。今年，该公司已经出售了位于墨西哥湾的小型石油勘探区块。它还以14.9亿美元的价格将在非洲的资产出售给了巴西的投资银行百达(BTG Pactual)。
Luana Helsinger, a petroleum analyst with the Brazil branch of Grupo Bursátil Mexicano, said Wednesday’s sale was a success for Petrobras.
Grupo Bursátil Mexicano驻巴西的石油分析师卢瓦娜·赫尔辛格(Luana Helsinger)说，周三的交易对巴西国家石油公司来说是一个成功。
“To meet their fund-raising goal, they had to make a big asset sale,” she said. “This will give them some breathing room to focus on investments in Brazil.”
她说，“为了达到资金筹集的目标，他们必须大规模出售资产。这将会为他们专注于巴西国内的投资赢得喘息的空间。”
Ms. Helsinger said the company’s finances would remain under pressure until the government permitted it to raise domestic fuel prices. She said she expected that to come when the board of directors, headed by Brazil’s finance minister, Guido Mantega, meets Nov. 22.
赫尔辛格说，公司的资金状况仍将处于压力之下，除非政府允许提高国内燃油价格。她说，她预计巴西财政部长吉多·曼特加(Guido Mantega)领导的董事会11月22日召开会议时，这样的时机就会出现。
JPMorgan Chase, in a research note on Wednesday, also called the deal a “positive for the company,” but said that “we view asset sales as a way to cover for the lack of cash generation” caused by the “misalignment” in domestic fuel prices.
摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)周三在一份研究报告中也称，这笔交易“对公司是一个加分”，但是表示，“我们认为出售资产是为了弥补缺少现金创造力的一种方式”，而这是由国内燃油价格“失调”造成的。
For China National Petroleum, JPMorgan wrote, “The transaction increases its bias to South America, a target region for overseas investment.”
对于中石油来说，摩根大通写道，“这笔交易增加了它对南美洲这个海外投资的一个目标地区的偏重。”
The sale comes as Petrobras is attempting to carry out one of the most aggressive corporate investment plans in the world. The company intends to invest $237 billion from 2013 to 2017 as it aims to more than double petroleum production to 4.2 million barrels a day by 2020.
这笔交易发生的同时，巴西国家石油公司正试图开展一个世界上数一数二的企业投资计划。公司打算从2013年到2017年投资2370亿美元，使石油产量到2020年增加一倍多，达到每天420万桶。
Ms. Helsinger said the company’s near-term investments were mostly on schedule, production was finally showing signs of growth and its 2020 production target appeared realistic.
赫尔辛格说，公司的近期投资大多数正在按计划进行，产量终于显示出增长的迹象，其2020年的产量目标似乎切实可行。
For China, the purchase is another step in what appears to be a long-term plan to acquire energy resources in Latin America. Last month, the China National Petroleum Company, together with another state-controlled company, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, each bought a 10 percent share of exploration and production rights in a giant Brazilian offshore petroleum field named Libra.
对中国来说，这笔交易看来是朝着在拉丁美洲收购能源的一个长期计划又迈进了一步。上个月，中石油和另一家国有公司中国海洋石油总公司分别收购了大型巴西近海油田Libra10%的开采和生产权。
In that deal, the two Chinese companies each paid $700 million upfront and agreed to pay 10 percent of the development costs for the field, estimated at $200 billion to $300 billion over the next 35 years.
在这笔交易中，这两家中国公司先期各支付了7亿美元，并同意支付这个油田开发费用的10%，这笔费用在未来35年大约为2000亿到3000亿美元。