WASHINGTON — Michelle Obama’s trip to China starting on Wednesday will be nonpolitical, the White House says, a “people-to-people exchange” emphasizing the importance that both nations place on education. As if to underscore the point, no reporters are traveling with the first lady, and she does not plan to give interviews while there.
华盛顿——白宫表示，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)将于周三开始的中国之行不具政治色彩，它是一次“人与人的交流”，聚焦于两国对教育的重视。似乎是为了强调这一点，第一夫人的这趟行程没有记者随行，她也不打算在中国期间接受采访。
But with the United States and China locked in disagreements over trade, ects — and with President Obama preparing to meet with President Xi Jinping next week at a nuclear summit meeting — political overtones will be almost impossible to avoid.
但是，随着中美两国在贸易等问题上的分歧无法消除，以及奥巴马准备在下周的核峰会上与中国国家主席习近平会面——第一夫人此行的政治色彩几乎无可避免。
“Politics can be imposed,” said Melanne Verveer, who accompanied Hillary Rodham Clinton to China in 1995 as the first lady’s chief of staff. “People will want to put a political spin on the trip.”
“政治性是可以被强加的，”梅兰妮·弗维尔(Melanne Verveer)说，她曾在1995年作为第一夫人的幕僚长陪同希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)前往中国。“人们会希望给这趟行程添加政治色彩。”
Mrs. Obama is drawing scrutiny for her decision to travel with her mother and her two daughters, who are on spring break, bringing to mind a vacation she took to Spain in 2010 with her daughter Sasha and some friends. She and her entourage paid for their lodging and entertainment. But the security cost taxpayers tens of thousands of dollars, and the trip was criticized as lavish.
米歇尔·奥巴马决定带着母亲和正在放春假的两个女儿一同前往中国，这让一些人大皱眉头，让人想起2010年的一个假期，她带着女儿萨莎(Sasha)和一些朋友前往西班牙。她及其随行人员自掏腰包支付了住宿和娱乐费用。但安保却花费了纳税人数万美元，那趟行程也被批评为“奢华”。
Some conservative commentators are calling the China trip a junket. The White House will not say how much it will cost.
一些保守派评论家称此次中国之行是公费旅游。而白宫不会透露此行的费用。
Tina Tchen, Mrs. Obama’s chief of staff and a first-generation Chinese-American, said a multigenerational visit would be appreciated by the Chinese, who value tradition.
米歇尔·奥巴马的幕僚长陈远美(Tina Tchen)是第一代华裔美国人，她说中国人重视传统，几代人一同出行的做法会受到他们的赞赏。
Mrs. Obama’s aides describe the visit as a cultural exchange unencumbered by official talks at the presidential level. “Her focus on people-to-people relations, her focus on education and youth empowerment is one that we believe will resonate in China,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser.
米歇尔·奥巴马的助手把这次访问形容为文化交流，不会背上总统级正式会谈的包袱。“她注重人与人的关系，关注教育和赋予青年权力，我们认为她的这个侧重点会在中国引起共鸣。”副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说。
Mrs. Obama will be promoting educational exchange programs, emphasizing the need for American and Chinese youths to understand each other’s cultures as their economic fortunes become further intertwined. About 200,000 Chinese are studying in the United States, more than from any other country, compared with about 20,000 Americans studying in China, White House officials said. The Obama administration is trying to raise that number.
米歇尔·奥巴马将促进教育交流项目，强调中美青年在其经济命运变得更加紧密相连的时候，需要了解彼此的文化。白宫官员表示，目前大约有20万中国人在美国留学，数量超过任何其他国家的留学生，在中国学习的美国人大约有2万名。奥巴马政府正在努力提高这个数字。
“If young Americans are able to understand China, able, through our educational exchanges, to study in China, that will be invaluable experience for one of the principal actors in the global economy,” Mr. Rhodes said.
“如果美国青年能够了解中国，能够通过我们的教育交流项目在中国学习，对于全球经济的一位主要成员来说，这将成为宝贵经验，”罗兹说。
Mrs. Obama will document her trip on a White House blog. Students will be able to follow Mrs. Obama and participate in virtual discussions using the websites for PBS LearningMedia and Discovery Education.
米歇尔·奥巴马将在白宫博客中记录她的旅行见闻。学生们可以关注米歇尔·奥巴马，并使用PBS学习媒体(PBS LearningMedia)和探索教育(Discovery Education)的网站参与虚拟讨论。
Mrs. Obama’s host will be Peng Liyuan, China’s first lady, whose taste for fashion and the arts sets her apart from her low-key predecessors and has made her a celebrity sensation in her country. Ms. Peng attended her husband’s meeting with Mr. Obama last summer at the Sunnylands estate in California, but Mrs. Obama was not there.
米歇尔·奥巴马此行的东道主是中国第一夫人彭丽媛，其时尚和艺术品味不仅使她有别于低调的前任们，也让她在中国引发了名人效应。去年夏天，彭丽媛曾陪同丈夫前往加州“阳光之乡”(Sunnylands)与奥巴马总统会面，但当时米歇尔·奥巴马不在场。
Ms. Peng will greet Mrs. Obama when she arrives in Beijing on Thursday after an overnight flight. They will visit a school and tour the Forbidden City before taking in dinner and a performance. Mrs. Obama will also address American students at Peking University and visit the Great Wall. Later in the trip, she will view the terra cotta warriors and visit the Walled City in Xi’an, and visit a school in Chengdu specializing in technology.
米歇尔·奥巴马经过一夜飞行于周四抵达北京时，彭丽媛将在那里迎接她。她们将参观一所学校，游览故宫，然后安排进行晚餐，并观看一场演出。米歇尔·奥巴马还将对在北大留学的美国学生发表讲话，并参观长城。在行程后期，她还将参观兵马俑、西安城墙，以及成都的一所技术学校。
The trip will last seven days. It is Mrs. Obama’s third trip abroad as first lady without her husband.
这次访问为期七天，是米歇尔·奥巴马第三次作为第一夫人在没有丈夫同行的情况下出访外国。
Fourteen American first ladies have visited China before, during or after their time in the White House, according to Carl Anthony, the historian of the National First Ladies’ Library. They include Mrs. Obama’s two most recent predecessors.
美国第一夫人图书馆(National First Ladies’ Library)的历史学者卡尔·安东尼(Carl Anthony)表示，之前曾有14位美国第一夫人访问中国，包括当她们在白宫期间和之后。这其中也有米歇尔·奥巴马最近的两位前任。
Experts on the office of the first lady say the context of Mrs. Obama’s visit is quite different. Throughout her time in the White House, she has been decidedly nonpolitical, they say, and her focus on education and young people in China fits neatly with the causes she champions at home and on other trips abroad.
研究第一夫人办公室的专家们说，米歇尔此次访华的背景则大不相同。他们说，成为第一夫人以来，米歇尔不参与政治的态度一直十分坚决，她对中国教育和青年的关注与她在国内和其他出访中所讨论的议题也非常契合。
Will she be able to avoid calling attention to politics? “It’s a very tightly controlled schedule, and there is no media and no interviews, so it’s entirely possible,” said Anita McBride, who was Laura Bush’s chief of staff and now runs a program at American University on first ladies. “Both teams are going to do everything they can to prevent it from going in that direction.”
她能够避免引发对政治问题的关注吗？“她的日程被严格控制，没有媒体见面会，也不接受采访，所以这完全有可能，”曾任劳拉·布什(Laura Bush)幕僚长的安妮塔·迈克布莱德(Anita McBride)说。迈克布莱德目前在美国大学(American University)管理着一个有关第一夫人的项目。“两个团队都将不遗余力地防止事态朝这一方向发展。”
There is no plan for Mrs. Obama to meet with Mr. Xi, though Mr. Rhodes said, “We would certainly welcome the opportunity should it arise.”
米歇尔目前没有与习近平会面的计划。不过罗兹说，“如果有这样的机会，我们当然会欢迎。”