WASHINGTON — While the presidents of China and the United States held closed-door talks, the first ladies of both nations dealt with another international matter: announcing the National Zoo’s month-old giant panda cub — Bei Bei.
华盛顿——中国国家主席和美国总统举行闭门会谈时，两国的第一夫人处理了另一桩国际事务：宣布国家动物园一个月大的大熊猫幼崽名为“贝贝”。
The first ladies, Peng Liyuan and Michelle Obama, chose the name from a list of suggestions submitted by officials with the Wolong National Nature Reserve in China and Washington’s National Zoo. The name, pronounced Bay Bay, means precious and treasure in Chinese. At the ceremony, the first ladies unfurled scrolls with the new cub’s name, watched a veterinary exam on the newborn and received an update on its health status from Dennis W. Kelly, the National Zoo’s director, and Zhang Hemin, director of the China Conservation & Research Center for the Giant Panda.
第一夫人彭丽媛和米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)从中国卧龙国家级自然保护区及华盛顿国家动物园的官员提交的候选名单中选择了这个名字。贝贝在中文中意为珍宝。在命名仪式上，两位第一夫人打开了写有熊猫幼崽名字的卷轴，目睹了兽医对它进行体检的过程，并通过国家动物园园长丹尼斯·凯利(Dennis Kelly)和中国保护大熊猫研究中心主任张和民了解了有关它健康状况的最新情况。
As visitors gazed at the “Panda Cam” on Saturday for live-stream images of the cub, Mr. Kelly said the previous day’s naming ceremony was a joyful way to underscore bilateral environmental collaboration following China’s gift of two of the endangered giant pandas more than four decades ago.
周六的时候，游客们纷纷通过熊猫摄像头(Panda Cam)目不转睛地看着熊猫幼崽的直播画面。凯利表示，前一天的命名仪式是一种令人高兴的突显双边环境合作的方式。在中国于40多年前赠与美国两只濒临灭绝的大熊猫后，两国开展了此类合作。
Chinese experts joining the official delegation “gave us some coaching and tips on how to handle future cub births to increase the survival rate,” he said. Bei Bei’s smaller twin died four days after the births on Aug. 22 when their mother had difficulty taking care of both cubs, according to the zoo’s blog.
他表示，中国官方代表团的专家“就未来如何应对幼崽出生来提高存活率的问题给出了指导和建议”。国家动物园的博客显示，贝贝和孪生弟弟出生于8月22日，由于他们的母亲难以照料两个幼崽，年龄较小的那只在四天后死亡。
The United States and China, the world’s largest carbon emitters, have been negotiating environmental policies in advance of this winter’s United Nations Climate Change conference. Mr. Kelly expressed hope that the success of collaboration on breeding giant pandas could lead to even greater environmental coordination.
作为世界上最大的两个碳排放国，在今年冬季的联合国气候变化峰会召开之前，美国和中国一直在就环境政策进行谈判。凯利表示，希望大熊猫培育合作方面取得的成功能够进一步促进环境协作。
While Bei Bei will not be on full, public exhibit until early next year, zoo visitors eagerly lined up on Saturday to take pictures, including selfies, with a large Bei Bei-filled television screen. Children carried a medley of panda-inspired souvenirs, including stuffed animals, paddleballs and chopsticks.
虽然贝贝在明年初才会完全与公众见面，动物园的游客周六急切地排队与满是贝贝画面的大电视屏幕拍照，包括自拍。孩子们带着各种熊猫纪念品，比如填充动物玩偶、板手球和筷子。
Since the 1972 arrival of Ling-Ling and Hsing-Hsing, the National Zoo’s giant pandas continue to draw regular headlines with every step along their respective circles of life. When the federal government shut down in 2013, the “Panda Cam” going dark was so upsetting to some that former Speaker Newt Gingrich offered to personally pay the cost of keeping the stream operating.
自大熊猫玲玲和兴兴于1972年抵达美国以来，国家动物园的大熊猫持续凭借在各自生命周期的每一个阶段成为新闻头条的常客。联邦政府在2013年停摆时，关闭了“熊猫摄像头”，令不少人非常难过，以致于众议院前议长纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)提出要自掏腰包来使摄像头保持运转。