HONG KONG — A rare spotlight is being cast on Laos as world leaders, including President Obama, prepare to gather in its capital, Vientiane, for meetings of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, and other countries beginning on Tuesday.
香港——随着包括美国总统奥巴马在内的世界领导人准备聚集在老挝首都万象，参加周二开幕的东南亚国家联盟（Association of Southeast Asian Nations，简称东盟）和其他国家的会议，老挝罕见地成为了关注焦点。
A former French colony that gained full independence in 1954. It has long depended on its neighbors China, Vietnam and Thailand for investment and political patronage. But that reliance has often put it at the mercy of political forces beyond its control.
老挝曾是法国殖民地，于1954年获得完全独立。老挝长期依赖邻国中国、越南和泰国的投资和政治庇护，但这种依赖常常导致它受到在其控制范围之外的政治力量的摆布。
In an interview, Keith Barney, a lecturer at the Crawford School of Public Policy at Australian National University, speaks about the country’s history and its efforts to balance the attentions of its powerful neighbors.
接受采访时，澳大利亚国立大学克劳福德公共政策学院(Crawford School of Public Policy at Australian National University)讲师基思·巴尼(Keith Barney)谈到了老挝的历史，以及该国为平衡强大邻国的注意力而采取的行动。
Being a land in between larger powers, how has that affected Laos’s development? 
身处更大的强国之间，对老挝的发展有何影响？
This is Laos’s historical-diplomatic strategy: to not be tied too closely to any one patron or protector. Surrounded by Thailand, China to the north and Vietnam — three very powerful countries — Laos’s basic diplomatic interests are to seek alliances with all of them and make sure no one country has hegemonic control.
老挝在历史上的外交策略是：不与任何一个资助或保护国走得过近。处在泰国、北边的中国和越南这三个影响力非常大的国家的包围下，老挝基本的外交利益在于争取与三个国家都结盟，并确保没有哪个国家拥有支配性的控制权。
Could you provide an example from Laotian history?
你能从老挝的历史中举例说明吗？
Laos as a nation was of course created out of the French colonial period — they helped to create a sense of Lao nationalism in the early 1900s. Then, at the end of the Second World War, that Indochinese nationalism, which the French created to maintain control over their colonial holdings, turned into an anticolonial nationalism and a territorial nationalism in which Laos was seen as separate from Vietnam and Cambodia as well as claiming independence from France. That was a strong theme in the middle of the 20th century.
作为一个国家的老挝，当然发端于法国的殖民统治时期——在20世纪初期，他们帮助创造了一种老挝民族主义意识。然后到第二次世界大战结束时，法国为了维持对殖民地的控制而创造出来的印度支那民族主义，演变成了一种反殖民民族主义和领土民族主义。正是在这种领土民族主义中，老挝被认为是有别于越南、柬埔寨的一个地方，并宣布从法国独立出来。在20世纪中期，这是一个强有力的主题。
As the Communist period developed, Laos was very close with Vietnam. The leadership was trained in Vietnam and was closely allied with the Vietnamese Communist Party. So certainly, since the 1975 revolution, Vietnam has been Laos’s closest political partner. But they’ve also had strong economic ties with Thailand, and more recently, China is of course playing a very important role in the country. So I think it’s broadly evident through Laos’s history that they seek to create political and economic connections with all of their different neighbors.
随着共产主义时期的发展，老挝和越南非常亲密。老挝的领导人在越南接受培训，并与越南共产党紧密结盟。因此自1975年革命以来，越南自然一直是老挝最亲密的政治合作伙伴。但他们也和泰国有密切的经济往来，而在近些年，中国当然也在老挝发挥着非常重要的作用。因此我认为，老挝历史在总体上表明，他们寻求与三个不同的邻国都建立政治和经济联系。
Some think of the Vietnam War as something that happened only in Vietnam. But Laos was an important theater in the conflict, even though the United States did not publicly acknowledge its bombing there. What role did Laos play?
一些人认为越南战争只发生在越南。但老挝也是那场战争中的重要战区，尽管美国未公开承认轰炸过那里。老挝扮演了什么角色？
The Ho Chi Minh Trail was an incredibly important strategic asset for the North Vietnamese and the Viet Minh for flying troops and arms down into South Vietnam. So without the Ho Chi Minh Trail, and without that possibility of moving war equipment and men and materials down through Laos, the war would have played out very differently — and most historians would agree. So that area of Laos was always a strategic area for Vietnam, and they’ve continued to see Laos as part of their geostrategic area of interest.
胡志明小道是极具战略价值的，让北越和越盟能够把军队和武器空运至南越。因此，如果没有胡志明小道，没有途经老挝运输作战装备、人员和物资的可能性，越战的发展会完全不同。大部分历史学家也会同意这一点。因此，老挝那片地区一直是越南的战略区，他们现在依然认为老挝是自己地缘战略利益的一部分。
That conflict also dovetailed with a civil war in Laos. 
在那场战争期间，老挝国内也发生了内战。
Beginning in the late 1940s, early 1950s, the Pathet Lao, the Communists, were drawing most of their young leaders from students studying in Hanoi — like the most famous president, Kaysone Phomvihane — and after the 1954 conflict at Dien Bien Phu, where France lost and agreed to independence for their Indochinese holdings. So the Pathet Lao held these two provinces in the northeast along Vietnam: Houaphan and Phongsaly. These were the Pathet Lao provinces, and then you had the royalists, the U.S.-backed government, holding the Mekong Valley and other provinces. From there, the Pathet Lao, backed by the Vietnamese Communists, basically sought to move Laos into a Communist sphere of influence.
上世纪40年代末、50年代初开始，以及1954年的奠边府战役结束后，共产主义组织巴特寮(Pathet Lao)的年轻领导人大多来自在河内留学的学生，比如最著名的主席凯山·丰威汉(Kaysone Phomvihane)。在奠边府战役中，法国战败，同意印度支那的殖民地独立。因此巴特寮控制着东北部与越南接壤的两个省：华潘和丰沙里。它们是巴特寮控制的省份，保皇派和美国支持的政府控制了湄公河谷和其他省份。从那时候起，由越南共产党支持的巴特寮基本上是在寻求让老挝进入共产主义的势力范围。
What does President Obama’s coming visit mean for Laos?
奥巴马总统不久后的到访对老挝意味着什么？
For the government, I think it’s an important visit. My interpretation is that the Lao government also wants to maintain close connections with Western countries. There seems to be some evidence that the recent party congress in January 2016 represented a bit of a shift away from closer connections with China and back towards Vietnam.
对政府而言，我认为这是一次重要的访问。我的解读是，老挝政府也希望和西方国家保持密切的联系。似乎有一些迹象显示，于2016年1月召开的最近一次党代会意味着老挝有点儿想要放弃与中国建立更密切的联系，重新向越南靠拢。
I’d be cautious of oversimplifying that; I think Laos in fact tries to maintain connections with all of the different powers, so Laos would have a complex approach to those questions, not simply pivoting from one to the other in an either-or fashion. But part of that is Laos also tries to maintain close connections with countries like Japan, which is still the largest donor in the country, and with Western countries. So in that sense I think Laos would be interested in what a U.S. role in Southeast Asia could look like.
我会保持谨慎，不把事情过分简单化；我认为老挝其实正寻求跟所有大国保持联系，因此会采用一种复杂的策略来应对这些问题，而不仅仅是抛开一方，转投另一方，非此即彼。但作为该策略的一部分，老挝也试图和日本等国以及一些西方国家保持密切的联系。日本仍是该国最大的外援提供者。在这种意义上说，我认为老挝对美国可能在东南亚扮演什么样的角色会很感兴趣。
The Vietnam War — the bombing, specifically — took a huge toll on Laos, and leftover bombs are still killing people in the Laotian countryside. How might Obama’s presence in the country, or whatever he might say there, affect that issue of unexploded ordnance, or UXO? 
越南战争——尤其是轰炸——对老挝造成了巨大的破坏，而在老挝的乡村地区，遗留的炸弹仍不时夺走人们的生命。奥巴马的到访，或者他在那儿的任何讲话，会给未爆炸弹（简称UXO）问题带来怎样的影响？
It might be a bit less what he says and more the increased amount of aid that could go into UXO removal. It is still a pretty significant issue in many areas of the countryside. In the places where I work and do fieldwork, there are some companies that are doing UXO clearance. But there’s still a huge amount of land area affected by this, so I think increased U.S. support for UXO clearance would also be quite welcome.
比起说些什么，增加援助金额或许更加有助于清除UXO。在许多乡村地区，这依然是一个极为重要的议题。在我工作并进行田野调查的一些地方，有些公司正在清理UXO。但还有大片地区受到这一问题的困扰，因此我认为如果美国能够为UXO清理工作提供更多支持，肯定很受欢迎。
Laos’s rivers, forests and minerals have been, in some ways, a blessing, but also a source of tension over the years. What are the key debates in Laos over how to manage its natural resources?
老挝的河流、森林和矿藏在某种意义上堪称上天的恩赐，但多年来也一直是紧张局势的源头。在老挝，关于如何管理该国自然资源的主要争论都有哪些？
The most important sector is really mining, in terms of revenues for the government. Something like 40 percent of Laos’s exports are in minerals, and 30 percent of that is copper alone. So the two largest investments in gold and copper mines are pretty strategic areas of interest for Laos. They need to really manage this resource well if it’s going to be contributing to the development strategy of their country. In December 2015, Laos lifted its moratorium on their mining concessions, so that will be an interesting issue to watch, how mining moves forward again. These two companies were quite well managed — they were initiated by Australian companies but taken over by China in the last few years. They’re quite well regulated. There’s also a medium- and small-scale mining sector which has a lot of environmental problems associated with it.
就对政府收入的贡献而言，最重要的行业其实是采矿业。矿产出口约占老挝出口总额的40%，这其中铜就占到30%。因此，两个最大的金铜矿投资项目，是它极为关注的战略领域。如果要利用矿产资源实现本国的发展战略，它就需要切实管好这种资源。2015年12月，老挝解除了关于采矿权的禁令，因此可以看看采矿业将如何重新出发，这会是很有趣的议题。这两个企业被管得相当不错——它们是由澳大利亚公司创办的，前些年被中国人接手了。它们受到了很好的监管。此外，老挝的采矿业也有中小规模企业，它们存在很多环境问题。
In terms of hydropower, with all the controversies over the Mekong River and mainstream Mekong hydropower, Laos has arguably played a little bit of a cynical game in terms of undermining the process enshrined under the Mekong River Commission for the process of notification, prior consultation and agreement. Laos has basically been moving ahead with its two mainstream Mekong hydropower projects without full agreement from its neighbors, and it looks like a third Mekong hydropower project — Pak Beng, backed by a Chinese developer — is the next one that will be started soon. It really raises questions around what’s the level of political support in Laos for the Mekong River Commission — and for the Western donors to the Mekong River Commission, what their approach should be.
至于水电产业，相关争议都集中在湄公河及其干流水电项目上。可以说，老挝违反湄公河委员会(Mekong River Commission)关于通知、事前协商与协议的规定之举，有点儿见利忘义。基本上，它在推进自己的两个湄公河干流水电项目之际，并未与邻国完全达成一致；而且，看上去接下来就是很快要开工的第三个湄公河水电项目——即北本水电站(Pak Beng)，它得到了一家中国开发商的投资。这的确会让人质疑，老挝对湄公河委员会以及该委员会的政治支持力度到底有多大。此外的问题就是，委员会的西方捐赠者到底该采取什么样的方针。
All this becomes quite interesting in terms of China’s new Lancang-Mekong Cooperation forum, which some observers say could be a competitor to the Mekong River Commission, led by China as opposed to Western donors. So it’s a really interesting moment in terms of how regional and global diplomacy is playing into the hydropower sector, and how all this is going to move forward.
鉴于中国刚刚举办了首届澜湄合作(Lancang-Mekong Cooperation)峰会，所有这一切变得相当有意思。一些观察人士称，澜湄合作机制可能成为湄公河委员会的对手，在中国领导下与该委员会的西方捐赠者对着干。因此这真的是一个非常有趣的时刻，可以见证区域外交和全球外交如何影响水电产业，以及所有这些将如何演变。
The government has been criticized for the 2012 disappearance of a prominent Laotian agricultural specialist, Sombath Somphone. Why is this important, and are Laos’s critics right when they say the human rights situation in the country is deteriorating?
老挝政府因为该国知名农业专家宋巴·宋蓬(Sombath Somphone)于2012年失踪一事受到了指责。这件事为何如此重要？老挝的批评人士说该国的人权状况正在恶化，他们说的对吗？
I would say that’s accurate. The reason it’s so critical: Some people say, “Well, it’s just one person, why would that affect the civil society scene of an entire country?” But Sombath was the most widely respected and most well known and one of the leaders of the domestic civil society groups in Laos. So to have him disappeared — we don’t know the exact story about what happened to him, but it’s hard to think that some segment of the Lao state was not involved. It would be hard to think that’s possible if he’s being abducted by policemen at a police station in the capital city.
我得说，这话一点儿没错。解释一下宋蓬事件如此重要的原因：一些人会觉，“唔，不过是一个人而已，为什么会影响整个国家的公民社会图景呢？”但在老挝，宋蓬广受尊崇，大名鼎鼎，是国内公民社会组织的领导者之一。因此，当他失踪时，我们虽然不知到他身上具体发生了什么事，却很难想象老挝的某个政府部门没有参与其中。如果他是在首都的一个警局内被警察绑架，很难想象甚至存在这种可能性。
So given that they haven’t come up with a single piece of evidence in the investigation into his disappearance, the story is quite consistent with some level of state involvement — or state-enforced disappearance, as the human rights groups have called it. The implications of this are basically that, if you can remove someone as well respected and widely known, and with such strong international connections — he was a Ramon Magsaysay Award-winning leader in Laos — if you can have someone like that removed, that basically means that they can go after anybody. That’s why it’s so significant and why it has such a chilling effect on the civil society sector and the country as a whole.
他们调查宋蓬失踪案时没有找到任何证据，鉴于此，政府在某种程度上参与了此事的说法就颇为站得住脚了——或者像人权团体所说的那样，这是政府强迫失踪。这基本意味着，如果能铲除一个既广受尊重又大名鼎鼎，还有过硬的国际关系的人——他曾荣获拉蒙·麦格塞塞奖(Ramon Magsaysay Award)——如果能让这样的人消失，基本意味着所有人都逃不出他们的手掌心。这就是为什么这件事如此重要，为什么它会让老挝的各个公民社会组织乃至整个国家如此胆战心惊。