BANGKOK — If the Chinese Super League was not the hottest soccer destination outside Europe before this summer transfer window opened, it is now. The infusion of big name players and world famous coaches has gathered speed, and attendances continue to climb along with the league’s international profile. The big stars seem to come and go, but the spending continues.
曼谷——如果在今年夏季转会窗口开放前，中超联赛还不算是除欧洲以外最热门的转会目的地，现在可以说是了。越来越多的大牌球员和世界知名教练进入中国，中超联赛的观众人数和国际声誉都在提升。这些明星人物似乎没有久留的打算，但大手笔的投入仍在继续。
Shanghai S.I.P.G., coached by former England boss Sven Goran Eriksson, broke the Asian transfer record in July to sign Asamoah Gyan, the captain of Ghana’s World Cup team, from Al Ain of the United Arab Emirates, spending over $20 million. City rivals Shenhua spent what was believed to be around $16 million to sign former Chelsea striker Demba Ba while Guangzhou Evergrande, going for a fifth straight title and now coached by Luiz Felipe Scolari, brought in the Brazilian internationals Paulinho and Robinho.
今年7月，上海上港集团足球俱乐部打破亚洲转会纪录，以超过2000万美元（约合1.27亿元人民币）的价格签下在阿联酋艾因俱乐部踢球的加纳国家队队长阿萨莫阿·吉安 (Asamoah Gyan)。上港队教练为前英格兰队主帅斯文-戈兰·埃里克森(Sven Goran Eriksson)。同城死敌上海申花俱乐部以据说大约1600万美元的价格签下前切尔西队前锋登巴·巴(Demba Ba)，而由路易斯·菲利佩·斯科拉里(Luiz Felipe Scolari)执教的广州恒大足球俱乐部力争赢得五连冠，引入了巴西国脚保利尼奥(Paulinho)和罗比尼奥(Robinho)。
The Sept. 12 clash between first-place Shanghai S.I.P.G. and second-place Guangzhou should be crucial in the title race and adds a fresh chapter to an intriguing coaching rivalry. While in charge of England, Eriksson was eliminated from three successive international tournaments at the quarterfinal stage by Scolari — at the 2002 and 2006 World Cups, the former with Brazil the latter with Portugal, and the 2004 European Championships. Depriving Scolari of a fourth straight win over him and perhaps Guangzhou of a fifth straight title would be a major result for the Swede and Shanghai.
排名榜首的上海上港队将在9月12日对阵排名第二的广州恒大队，这应该是冠军争夺战中至关重要的一场比赛，给引人入胜的教练对抗增添新篇章。埃里克森执教英格兰国家队时，连续三次在国际赛事四分之一决赛中被斯科拉里淘汰——2002年世界杯与巴西队的比赛、2006年世界杯与葡萄牙队的比赛及2004年欧洲足球锦标赛。终结斯科拉里对他的四连胜、也许还有广州恒大的五连冠，对于这名瑞典人及上海上港队来说会是十分重要的成果。
The high-profile international signings strengthen the top Chinese clubs, which can now compete with their Japanese and South Korean counterparts in the Asian Champions League. But China still struggles to match the continent’s best national teams. On Aug. 2, a full strength China team playing at home in Wuhan lost 2-0 to an experimental South Korean team; China has defeated its neighbor just once in 29 meetings.
知名国际球星的加入增强了中国顶级足球俱乐部的实力，它们现在可以在亚洲冠军联赛中与日本及韩国的俱乐部一较高下。但中国仍旧难以对抗亚洲最棒的国家队。8月2日，全力应战的中国队在武汉主场以0比2的比分输给了尚未定型的韩国队；在29场中韩对抗中，中国队仅赢了一场。
Dejan Damjanovic, who was the top striker in South Korea’s K-League from 2007 to 2013 before leaving F.C. Seoul for China, believes that the imports can help raise standards of the locals if given time. “The Chinese Super League is improving with talented foreign players, but the national team needs more time because domestic players from Korea and Japan are still better than Chinese,” he said. “But high-class foreigners can help them grow as players.”
2007年至2013年韩国K联赛最佳射手德扬·达米亚诺维奇(Dejan Damjanovic)离开首尔FC队(F.C. Seoul)来到中国。他认为，如果多给些时间，引进的球员能够帮助提高中国球队的水平。“随着外籍球星的到来，中超联赛的水平不断提高，但中国国家队需要更多时间，因为韩国和日本的球员的水平要比中国球员高，”他说。“但一流外国球员能够帮助他们成长。”
Top foreign stars tend not to linger, however. Robinho, formerly of Real Madrid, Manchester City and A.C. Milan, impressed for his country at the Copa America earlier in the summer and arrived on a six-month contract. Others players of his stature also tend to leave China after brief stints.
然而顶级外国球星往往不会停留。今年夏季早些时候，曾效力于皇家马德里、曼城和AC米兰的罗比尼奥代表国家队出征美洲杯，表现十分出众，他与中国俱乐部签署了一份为期六个月的合同。其他同等水平的球员也常常在短暂停留后离开中国。
“If you look at the turnover of foreign players in China, it’s quite ridiculous. ” said Erik Paartalu, an Australian midfielder with Tianjin Teda. “Even if you have done well at a club, the agents get hungry and try and move you around to better their bank accounts.”
“如果你去看看外国球员在中国的流动率，会觉得十分荒唐，“天津泰达队澳大利亚籍中场队员埃里克·帕尔塔鲁(Erik Paartalu)说。“即便你在一家俱乐部的表现非常好，经纪人也不会满足，他们会试图让你转会，以获得更多回报。”
Still, there is little doubt that the new wave of imports makes a difference in the short term. Big names bring big excitement, an increased profile for the league and, most important, fans — the average attendance of the league has risen to almost 23,000 this season from 16,000 in 2009, just before the current wave of spending started.
但新一轮引进潮在短期内带来的影响是毫无疑问。大牌球星带动了气氛，增加了联赛知名度，最重要的是，吸引了大批粉丝，在最近出资引入球员之前，中超联赛这一赛季到场观众平均达到将近2.3万人，而2009年只有1.6万人。
There is a buzz about the competition. Yet Damjanovic, who plays for Beijing Guoan, believes that clubs see changing their foreign players as the easiest way to improve. Teams are only allowed to field four overseas players at any one time.
出现了竞争热潮。但北京国安球员达米亚诺维奇认为，俱乐部将更换外国球员看作最简单的提高水平的方式。球队一次只能派四名海外球员上场。
‘‘The Chinese clubs want success and results fast so they choose to invest money in foreigners. It is really hard to stay here for a long time,’’ said Damjanovic, a Montenegrin international.
黑山国脚达米亚诺维奇表示，“中国俱乐部希望快速获得成功和成果，所以它们选择投入资金引入外国球员。真的很难长时间待在这里。”
Shanghai Shenhua famously signed Nicolas Anelka and Didier Drogba from Chelsea in 2012. When the pair arrived, then Shanghai majority owner Zhu Jun insisted the relationship between club and its new superstars would not be a one-night stand.
上海申花在2012年高调签下切尔西的尼古拉·阿内尔卡(Nicolas Anelka)和迪迪埃·德罗巴(Didier Drogba)。两人到达球队时，当时持有该俱乐部多数股份的朱骏坚称，俱乐部与其新引入的超级球星不会是一夜情的关系。
Both strikers were gone before the end of the year.
两位前锋都在2012年底离开了申花。
In 2014, the Guangzhou Evergrande coach at the time, Marcello Lippi — who won the 2006 World Cup with Italy — signed Italian internationals Alessandro Diamanti and Alberto Gilardino. The pair arrived in 2014 with outsize reputations yet struggled to live up to their billing and returned to Europe after a combined total of 17 months in China. Diamanti and Gilardino replaced the lesser known though more successful imports, Darío Conca of Argentina and Brazil’s Muriqui, who played major roles in the team that won the Asian Champions League in 2013. Muriqui spent a relatively lengthy four successful years with Guangzhou, and Conca stayed about 30 months.
2014年，广州恒大队教练马尔切洛·里皮(Marcello Lippi)签下意大利国脚亚历山德罗·迪亚曼蒂(Alessandro Diamanti)和阿尔贝托·吉拉迪诺(Alberto Gilardino)。里皮曾带领意大利队赢得2006年世界杯冠军。这两名颇具盛名的球员难以证明自己的价值，在中国总共待了17个月后返回欧洲。迪亚曼蒂和吉拉迪诺取代的是名气较小却更为成功的引进球员——阿根廷的达里奥·孔卡(Darío Conca)和巴西的穆里奇(Muriqui)，广州恒大在2013年夺得亚冠联赛冠军，这两人发挥了重要作用。穆里奇为广州恒大成功效力四年，时间相对较长，孔卡待了大约30个月。
Beijing Guoan’s Damjanovic said it is crucial that the imports help the domestic players improve. “At Beijing, the foreigners act as a role model for the young players, and we know that they are learning and focusing on everything we do and say,” he said. “I think that we are here to show them what professionalism is.”
北京国安的达米亚诺维奇表示，引进的球员帮助国内球员提高水平，这很关键。“在北京，外国球员充当年轻球员的榜样，我们知道他们在学习，关注我们所做和所说的一切，”他说。“我觉得我们来这儿是为了给他们展示什么是职业。”
But he conceded that not all foreign stars do this. “It all depends on the attitude. Some of them are just here for the money, but some of them are trying to help teammates to be better.”
但他承认，并非所有外国球星都这么做。“这完全取决于态度，一些人来这儿只是为了钱，但一些人努力帮助队友提高水平。”
China’s national team coach, the Frenchman Alain Perrin, suggested that foreign stars also help the development of Chinese players but that there are other steps that could have an even greater impact.
中国国家队教练——法国人阿兰·佩兰(Alain Perrin)表示，外国球星也会帮助中国球员发展，但其他举措可以产生更大的影响。
“The famous foreign players and coaches can make a difference in the league and at the moment, the level of the league is higher than the international team. They can help the local players improve, but of course this takes time,” Perrin said. “We hope that more players can go to Europe. This is something that Japan and Korea do, and is something that China needs to do also. The talent is here and I am sure it will happen.”
“知名的外国球员和教练能够在联赛中发挥作用，而且目前，联赛的水平比国家队高。他们可以帮助本土球员提高水平，但这当然需要时间，”佩兰说。“我们希望有更多球员可以去欧洲。日本和韩国就是这么做的，中国也需要这么做。这里有人才，我确定中国会这么做。”
The growing wealth in Chinese soccer may discourage local talent from following some of their South Korean and Japanese counterparts who have tested themselves in the big leagues of Europe and returned to play for the national team as much-improved players, a route long held to be important in the development of Asian soccer nations.
中国足坛不断增加的财富可能会使本土优秀球员打消效仿韩日球员的想法，不愿像他们那样在欧洲重要联赛中历练，然后在能力得到显著提高后回国为国家队效力，这种长期采用的路线在亚洲足球国家的发展中发挥重要作用。