The Bank of England and the People’s Bank of China reached an agreement on Wednesday to allow the clearing and settlement of renminbi trades in London, the first such arrangement to be struck outside of Asia and another sign of the British government’s determination to make London a leading Western hub for Chinese trading.
本周三，英格兰银行(Bank of England)和中国人民银行达成协议，批准伦敦提供人民币交易清算和结算服务，这是中国在亚洲之外达成的首项人民币境外交易清算协议，也是英国政府决意让伦敦成为西方主要的中国境外交易中心的又一标志。
The central banks will sign a memorandum of understanding at the end of the month and a bank will be designated soon, according to the British Treasury.
据英国财政部透露，两国的中央银行将在本月末签订谅解备忘录，并将迅速指定一家银行作为清算行。
“Connecting Britain to the fastest-growing parts of the world is central to our economic plan,” said George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer. “It’s why I’ve put such government effort over the last three years into making sure we’re the leading Western center for trading in the Chinese currency.”
英国财政大臣乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)表示，“把英国与全球增长最快的地区连接起来，对我们的经济规划至关重要。正是由于这个原因，三年来我一直在从政府层面努力，希望确保英国成为人民币在西方的主要交易中心。”
If clearing and settlement sounds a bit dull, it is part of the essential plumbing of finance. Clearing of payments is necessary to turn the promise of payment, like an electronic request, into the actual movement of money from one bank to another. For offshore renminbi clearing centers, like Hong Kong, Singapore and now London, a clearing bank acts as a settlement agent for interbank payments and can help with loans, trades in goods and services and financial instruments like foreign exchange.
清算和结算交易听起来可能有点儿无趣，但却是融资管道必不可少的组成部分。要把电子指令等付款承诺转化成从一家银行到另一家银行的实际付款操作，清算交易必不可少。对于香港、新加坡和目前的伦敦等人民币离岸清算中心而言，清算银行相当于一名银行同业支付的结算代理人，可以协同处理贷款，以及货物、服务和外汇等金融工具的交易。
Mark Boleat, policy chairman for the City of London Corporation, said he expected the agreement to affect how businesses in Britain operated. “It should encourage more U.K. firms to use the renminbi as a currency for international trade,” he said.
伦敦金融城政府政策与资源委员会主席包墨凯(Mark Boleat)表示，他预计协议会给在英企业的经营方式带来影响，“它应该可以鼓励更多英国公司把人民币用作一种国际贸易货币。”
British officials announced their intent in October to seek approval for a clearing and settlement bank. The British prime minister, David Cameron, and China’s president, Xi Jinping, discussed cooperation of the two banks in a bilateral meeting on the sidelines of a nuclear security gathering in the Netherlands this week, leading to the announcement of the arrangement on Wednesday.
去年10月，英国官员宣布了他们谋求建立人民币清算和结算银行的意图。本周，英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)和中国国家主席习近平在荷兰核安全峰会的间隙举行了一次双边会晤，探讨了两国央行的合作事宜。随后，两国央行于周三宣布了相关安排。
Britain has long made clear its intentions to attract every ounce of Chinese investment possible — including winning a license to allow foreigners to invest in stocks and bonds in renminbi and encouraging the development of real estate for Chinese middle-class investors looking to move their money to London. London asset managers are the only ones in the West able to invest directly in Chinese stocks and shares in the Chinese currency, through the Renminbi Qualified Financial Institutional Investor program, put in place last year with an initial quota of £8.2 billion, or $13.57 billion. It allows foreigners to buy Chinese bonds or stocks in the local currency. At the time, Mr. Osborne said it would help Britain’s financial groups attract China-related investments.
英国早已表明，该国打算尽可能地吸引每一点中国投资，相关举措包括获取允许外国人以人民币投资股票和债券的许可，鼓励以渴望把财产转移到伦敦的中国中产阶级投资者为对象的房地产开发。英国在去年实施了人民币合格境外投资者制度(QFII)，首批额度为82亿英镑，即约135.7亿美元（约合843亿元人民币），伦敦的资产管理人由此变成了西方世界能用人民币直接投资中国股票和债券的唯一群体。QFII允许外国人以人民币购买中国债券或股票。当时，奥斯本曾表示，该制度将有助于英国的金融集团吸引和中国相关的投资。
Analysts say the government sees the potential for growth. “Its vision is to become the No. 1 center for anything that Chinese currency can be used for outside of Asia, including deposits, foreign exchange transactions, debt and loans and dim sum bonds,” said Jinny Yan, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank.
分析人士称，英国政府看到了增长的前景。“它希望成为亚洲之外的一切人民币交易的头号中心，无论交易形式是存款、外汇兑换、债务、贷款还是点心债券。”渣打银行(Standard Chartered Bank)经济学家严瑾(Jinny Yan)说。
Ms. Yan said that Standard Chartered Bank developed a renminbi globalization index to measure overall growth in offshore renminbi use. It includes deposits, trade settlements and other international payments, dim sum bonds — Chinese bonds that attract foreign investors — certificates of deposit issued as well as foreign exchange turnover, all from an offshore perspective and denominated in renminbi.
严瑾称，渣打银行推出了人民币全球指数，以衡量人民币离岸使用的整体增长。该指数涵盖存款、贸易结算及其他国际支付、点心债券（亦即吸引外国投资者的中国债券）、已发放存款证明和外汇兑换交易，所有这些都是从离岸角度考虑，并且都以人民币计价。
The index initially covered only Hong Kong. Singapore and London were added in August 2011, and Taiwan was added in July 2013. The index doubled last year and has risen by 14 times since the beginning of 2011.
该指数最初只覆盖香港，于2011年8月纳入新加坡和伦敦，又于2013年7月纳入台湾。该指数在去年增长了一倍，同2011年年初相比则增长了14倍。
Numerous central banks have announced the inclusion of the renminbi in their foreign currency reserves, including the Reserve Bank of South Africa and the Reserve Bank of Australia, which has said it will invest up to 5 percent of its foreign exchange reserves in renminbi-denominated assets, JPMorgan Chase said in a report. The Nigerian central bank had suggested an allocation of as high as 10 percent, the report said.
包括南非储备银行(Reserve Bank of South Africa)和澳大利亚储备银行(Reserve Bank of Australia)在内的众多央行已宣布将人民币纳入自己的外汇储备。摩根大通( JPMorgan Chase)在一份报告中称，澳大利亚储备银行表示，会将高达5%的外汇储备投入以人民币计价的资产。该报告还称，尼日利亚央行已表示，将把多达10%的外汇储备投入前述资产。
Mr. Cameron has made clear that he wants to be at the center of the rise of the renminbi. During the October talks, Mr. Cameron told a Chinese business gathering, “If you are investing in Britain, invest more.” He later added, “No country in the world is more open to Chinese investment than the U.K.”
卡梅伦已经明确表示，他希望站在人民币崛起的中心。10月份的谈判期间，他告诉一些中国企业，“如果你们要在英国投资，那就多投一点。”他后来补充说，“英国是全世界对中国投资最开放的国家。”
China designated Hong Kong as its first offshore trading center for its currency in 2009. Since then, major cities have vied to attract trading in renminbi.
2009年，中国把香港指定为首个人民币离岸交易中心。自那时以来，许多大城市都在争相吸引人民币交易。
According to Swift, the banking payments provider, 62 percent of renminbi payments outside of China take place in London. London is also the largest hub for foreign exchange trading, with about a 41 percent market share. But there are areas where London lags, like deposit-taking, said Ms. Yan of Standard Chartered. Luxembourg and Frankfurt are ahead on that front.
据银行支付服务提供商Swift称，中国境外的人民币支付有62%发生在伦敦。此外，伦敦还是最大的外汇兑换中心，占据着大约41%的市场份额。但渣打银行的严瑾表示，伦敦也有落后的领域，比如吸纳存款。在该领域领先的是卢森堡和法兰克福。
The London Stock Exchange has also been eagerly courting Chinese business and seeking to expand its access to Chinese products. In January, two China-focused exchange-traded funds listed in London.
伦敦证券交易所(London Stock Exchange)也一直在急切地招揽中国的企业，希望扩展吸纳中国产品的渠道。今年1月，两支专注中国题材的交易所交易基金在伦敦上市。
In the same month, the Bank of China issued a 2.5 billion renminbi bond — the largest ever of its kind — on the London Stock Exchange’s Professional Securities Market.
同月，中国银行在伦敦证券交易所的专业证券市场发行了25亿元人民币债券，这是有史以来规模最大的同类债券。
And in February, GF Financial Markets (UK), part of the wider GF Securities Group based in Guangzhou, China, became the second Chinese member of the exchange.
今年2月，广发金融交易（英国）有限公司成为了该交易所的第二名中国成员。该公司属于总部位于中国广州的广发证券。
Mr. Osborne said he hoped to gain a bit of a first mover advantage with the clearing and settlement deal. “Of course, other Western countries will follow, but London now has the critical mass of infrastructure, helping to put Britain at the front of the global race,” he said in a statement.
奥斯本表示，他希望通过这项清算与结算协议获得一些先发优势。“当然，其他西方国家也会接踵而至，但伦敦已经拥有了关键性的基础设施群聚优势，可以帮助英国走到全球竞争的前列，”他在一份声明中说。