The scarlet sauce on a hillock of crispy, half-broken noodles is, ostensibly, Chinese sweet-and-sour. It is easy to pinpoint the familiar notes of soy, sugar and vinegar, but how to explain the steady, rippling bass line of chile heat? Squeeze of lime, whiff of cilantro, streaks of sour mango powder and black, sulfur-tinged salt: the balance tips toward tanginess and betrays the dish’s true roots, in India.
一堆半碎的脆面条上放着深红色的酱料，表面上是中国式的酸甜口味。很容易尝出熟悉的酱油和糖醋味，但其下暗藏的丝丝辣味又是怎么来的呢？酸橙汁、香菜和一道道酸芒果粉痕迹，以及黑色的、带有硫磺色调的盐，令这道菜带有醋栗的味道，也暴露了它的真正出身——印度菜。
Called Chinese bhel, the noodles are a variant of the traditional Indian street snack bhel puri, and part of a subset of Indian cooking (traceable back to Kolkata’s Chinatown and hugely popular across the subcontinent) that gleefully appropriates Chinese flavors to strange and often wondrous ends. Where American Chinese food tends to the sweet and vapid, with all the interesting bits buffed out, Indian Chinese is hotter and more motley, playing up the cuisines’ differences rather than seeking common ground.
这份面条被称为“中国普里”，是传统印度街头小吃“贝尔普里”(bhel puri)的变形，属于印度美食。它起源于加尔各答的中国城，在印度次大陆十分流行，令人愉悦地把中餐口味变得很奇怪，而且一般情况下也非常好吃。美式中餐倾向于又甜又淡，有趣的特点都被削弱了，印度中餐却更辣，更加丰富多彩，追求与中餐的差异而不是共同点。
This culinary hyphenation is the specialty of Spice Symphony, which opened last September just north of the Lexington Avenue strip known as Curry Hill. The menu name-checks Sichuan and Manchuria, but these references are best understood as darts thrown at a map, not founts of origin.
“香料交响曲”(Spice Symphony)特别擅长这种中印合璧，它于去年9月开张，就在莱克辛顿街以北的咖喱山。饭馆菜谱上出现了四川和满洲字样，但它们更像地图上的标记，而不是这些菜的真正来源。
Blocks of paneer come in a soup bowl’s worth of rust-colored sauce, identified as Sichuan. It is nothing of the kind. Instead, it is a magnificent standoff in which paneer, an earthy Indian cheese reminiscent in texture to firm tofu but more resistant to soaking up flavor, holds its own against sweet hot ginger and chile pepper.
一道汤里有大块印度奶酪和暗红色酱汁，被标为川菜。这根本不是川菜。事实上，这是一种风味独具的菜肴，印度奶酪是印度土产的奶酪，质地很像硬豆腐，但比较不易入味，尽管加了甜辣姜和红辣椒，还是保持自己的口味。
Equally, implausibly good is the ghost of takeout boxes past: knobs of chicken and broccoli florets in a vaguely brown, verging-on-viscous sauce. I kept eating it, in disbelief. That vaguely brown sauce shows up in a number of noteworthy dishes — bathing tender lamb, say, or enveloping deep-fried garlicky orbs of carrot, celery, leek and cabbage that somehow retain crunch despite total immersion — each time tasting completely different. Sometimes soy dominates, sometimes chile. The battle is never less than compelling.
同样，外卖盒装中的内容也是美味至极：鸡肉块和小块西兰花，辅以略带棕色的粘稠酱汁。我吃得停不下来，感觉难以置信。这种淡棕色酱汁还在很多大菜中出现——用来浸泡嫩嫩的羊肉，或者煎炸过的蒜味胡萝卜、西芹、韭葱和卷心菜，它们完全浸泡在酱汁里，却还保持煎炸过后的爽脆口感。每次尝到这种酱汁感觉都完全不同，有时酱油味重，有时又是辣的，不同滋味的竞争引人入胜。
Indian Chinese is a shift in style for the chef, Walter D’Rozario, who took a more elevated approach in his previous post as chef de cuisine at Junoon. There, he might have bundled spices into a bouquet garni, to be neatly disposed of before plating; at Spice Symphony, he throws in whole spices for a more rustic texture. (“This is grandmotherly cooking,” he explained.)
制作印式中餐对于厨师来说是一种改变。沃尔特·德洛扎里奥(Walter D’Rozario)之前是Junoon餐厅的厨师长，在任期间，他采取了提升这种菜肴的做法：他把香料混合成一束，装盘时可以整齐地放好。现在来到香料交响曲后，他把整块香料放进去，增添乡土的感觉。“这是祖母做菜的方式，”他解释说。
He offers elegant renditions of classic Indian dishes as well: baby eggplants stuffed with fresh grated coconut and a fistful of spicy seeds, with coconut milk and yogurt poured over for a sweet-sour finish; tilapia in a curry of revivingly bitter fenugreek leaves; and goat on the bone, braised at low temperature until tender but still in character.
此外他也优雅地借鉴传统印度菜：嫩茄子里塞满新鲜的碎椰肉和一把香草籽，上面淋着酸甜的椰汁和酸奶；咖喱罗非鱼盛在带有清爽苦味的葫芦巴叶子里；还有用小火炖熟的带骨山羊肉，嫩又不乏个性。
Neither Indian nor Chinese is Mr. D’Rozario’s calamari and shrimp “bruschetta,” better defined as a salad with mesclun greens tucked under breaded loops of calamari, large triangles of garlic paratha (described as “crispy” but floppy in the version I received) and shrimp in an inchoate demi-curry. It doesn’t work.
德洛扎里奥做的鱿鱼和虾味“意式烤面包”既不是印度菜也不是中国菜，可以说是一种杂菜沙拉，配上涂面包屑后烹制的鱿鱼圈，以及大大的三角形蒜味印度脆饼（paratha，它被描述为“脆饼”，但我吃的那个饼很软），还有配半熟咖喱的虾。它不算好吃。
Spice Symphony has aspirations. Dinner begins with an amuse-bouche, which might be apricot chutney on papdi, a crisp wafer freckled with nigella and caraway seeds. Prices are kept low, Mr. D’Rozario said, to encourage sampling from the thoughtful selection of wines by the glass, put together by Prem Chouhan, an owner and former sommelier at Amma.
“香料交响曲”很有抱负。食客可以先从浇酸辣杏酱的印度松糕之类餐前小吃吃起，这是一种脆饼，点缀着毛茛和香菜籽。价格一直保持低廉。德洛扎里奥说，这是为了鼓励顾客品尝精心挑选、斟在玻璃杯中的葡萄酒，它们由店主之一普莱姆·舒罕(Prem Chouhan)收集，他曾在安玛(Amma)担任斟酒员。
But the front of the house falls to pieces in the face of crowds. Tables languish. One night, after a protracted wait, crags of house-made mango kulfi (a dense ice-cream-like concoction of caramelized condensed milk) arrived half-melted. The waiter let out a helpless laugh. “It sat too long in the kitchen,” he said, and vanished.
但在食客看来，这家店店面破败，桌子也破破烂烂。一天晚上，漫长的等待之后，端上来的自制芒果卡尔菲（kulfi，一种浓稠的冰激凌状加糖熔焦并凝固的牛奶混合物）已经快要溶化。侍者无奈地笑着说：“在厨房放得时间太长了，”说完就消失了。
We consoled ourselves with delicate alle belle, Goan crepes rolled around grated coconut and jaggery. And there, as inevitable as a fortune cookie, was gulab jamun, two perfect balls of fried dough, here turned suddenly glamorous, in a cocktail glass filled with saffron syrup and pistachio dust. It almost glittered.
我们用精美的卷饼——果阿脆饼卷碎椰和黄糖来安慰自己。跑不掉的，这里也有幸运饼干，名叫“gulab jamun”，是两个完美的炸面团，味道十分好，它们放在盛有藏红花汁和开心果碎屑的鸡尾酒杯里，几乎熠熠生辉。