SEOUL, South Korea — An unsmiling South Korean girl stares forward with an accusatory expression. Sitting beside her, in a separate chair, is a Chinese girl, her fists clenched on her lap into balls of defiance.
韩国首尔——一个韩国女孩表情严肃，带着控诉的眼神望向远方。坐在她身旁一张椅子上的是一个中国女孩，她双手在膝上攥紧成拳，表示抗议。
The two bronze statues, unveiled on Wednesday in a small park in Seoul, are meant to represent the tens of thousands of young Korean, Chinese and other Asian women who were lured or forced into sexual slavery for Japanese soldiers during World War II. And while their creators said the timing was coincidental, the unveiling came just days before the arrival in Seoul of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, whom both countries have accused of whitewashing Japan’s wartime abuses.
周三，这两尊铜像在首尔的一个小公园内揭幕。铜像象征了数以万计的年轻韩国、中国和其他亚洲女性，她们在二战时因被骗或被迫成为日军慰安妇。虽然铜像的创造者说只是巧合，但铜像揭幕的时间刚好是在日本首相安倍晋三访韩的前几天。中韩两国均指责安倍试图粉饰日本战时暴行。
On Monday, Mr. Abe and President Park Geun-hye of South Korea will hold their first bilateral summit meeting, South Korea announced on Wednesday. That will follow a previously announced three-way meeting on Sunday of the two leaders and Prime Minister Li Keqiang of China.
韩国周三宣布，安倍与韩国总统朴槿惠将于下周一举行首次双边首脑会晤。这将是在之前公布的两国领导人和中国总理李克强于周日举行的三方会谈之后。
Ms. Park said earlier this month that she was willing to meet one-on-one with Mr. Abe on the sidelines of the trilateral meeting, but she called for Japan to address the wartime abuses of the sex slaves, whom the Japanese referred to euphemistically as “comfort women.” Ms. Park said that for the meeting with Mr. Abe to be “meaningful,” Japan should “help ease the agony” of those women, dozens of whom are still alive in South Korea.
本月稍早时，朴槿惠说她愿意在三方会谈场外与安倍单独会晤，但要求日本正视那些针对性奴的战时虐待行为，日本婉转地称呼她们为“慰安妇”。朴槿惠说，要令与安倍的会晤变得“具有实际意义”，日本应该“帮助减轻当事人的痛苦”。在韩国，其中数十人依然在世。
Until Wednesday, both governments were unable to confirm that the two leaders would meet one on one, and the “comfort women” issue appeared to be at the heart of the dispute. South Korean news media reported that Japan was resisting Ms. Park’s calls for Mr. Abe to be more forthcoming in acknowledging the abuses suffered by the women. It was unclear Wednesday whether Japan had made a concession on the issue, but the fact that the two leaders were not scheduled to have lunch together was seen as a sign that there had been no major breakthroughs.
在周三之前，日韩两国政府一直未能确定双方领导人会单独会晤，而“慰安妇”问题似乎会是争议的核心。韩国媒体报道，朴槿惠要求安倍更明确地承认这种残害女性的行为，却被日本拒绝。因此，截至周三，日本是否就该问题做出了妥协尚不得而知，但两人没有共进午餐的计划，这被认为是没有获得重大突破的表现。
For South Korea, the issue of the “comfort women” is among the most emotional of the disputes stemming from Japan’s colonial rule of Korea from 1910 to 1945. Japan says the issue was settled in the 1965 treaty that normalized relations between the two countries. But Seoul complains that under Mr. Abe, Japan has played down state responsibility for the recruitment of the women, which many historians say involved coercion.
对韩国来说，与1910至1945年日本殖民时期相关的问题中，“慰安妇”是最容易激起情绪的一个。日本称，这一问题在1965年签署两国关系正常化关系的条约时就已经解决。但韩国抱怨说，在安倍的领导下，日本淡化了国家在征召慰安妇问题上的责任，许多历史学家称征召是强迫性的。
The lifesize statues that were unveiled Wednesday are not the first in Seoul, or elsewhere, dedicated to the women. Since 2011, a statue of a girl in formal Korean dress has faced the Japanese Embassy, the site of regular protests by surviving comfort women, many now in their 90s, and their supporters.
周三揭幕的真人大小的雕像，并不是首尔或其他地方首个以慰安妇为主题的雕像作品。自2011年以来，日本大使馆对面一直竖立着一个身穿韩国传统服饰的女孩的雕像，仍然在世的慰安妇及其支持者经常到那里举行抗议活动，其中很多已经90多岁。
But the new statues are the first to be built in a collaboration between Chinese and South Korean artists and activists, and the one depicting a Chinese sex slave appears to be the first of its kind.
但新雕像首次由中韩两国艺术家和活动人士联手制作，对中国性奴隶的描绘似乎也是此类雕像首次。
“Koreans and Chinese resisted together like brothers against Japanese aggressions,” Leo Shi Young, a Chinese-American filmmaker from San Francisco, said during a dedication ceremony on Wednesday. Mr. Shi, together with a Chinese sculptor, Pan Yiqun, along with South Korean civic groups and artists, helped organize the building of the statues — which, like other statues dedicated to the women, their creators call “peace monuments.”
“韩国人和中国人像兄弟一样，一起抵制日本的侵略，”来自旧金山的华裔美国电影人史咏周三参加揭幕仪式时说。史咏和中国雕塑家潘毅群与韩国民间组织及艺术家一起帮助组织制作雕像，和其他以慰安妇为主题的雕像一样，该雕像的创作者称之为“和平少女像”。
Such statues have raised considerable ire in Japan, particularly among conservatives. Seoul has rejected Tokyo’s demand to remove the statue across the street from its embassy, which quickly became a magnet for South Koreans — and lately, Chinese tourists — paying tributes.
此类雕像在日本引发极大的愤怒，特别是保守派人士。东京方面曾要求移走使馆街对面的雕像，遭到首尔方面的拒绝，该雕像立即吸引很多韩国人——最近也有很多中国游客——前来致敬。
Copies of that statue have since been built in several American cities with sizable Korean communities, with the backing of South Korean civic groups and Korean expatriates. Conservative Japanese politicians have traveled to one such city, Glendale, Calif., to ask that the statue be removed.
在韩国民间组织及韩国侨民的支持下，美国几个有众多韩裔聚居的城市出现了该雕像的复制品。日本保守派政治人士前往其中一个城市——加州格伦代尔，要求相关人员移除雕像。
Mr. Shi said he came upon the idea of a statue of a Chinese comfort woman last year, when he saw the statue in Glendale. He then contacted his sculptor friend, Mr. Pan, to make the statue of the Chinese woman.
史咏表示，他去年在格伦代尔看到这个雕像，产生了制作中国慰安妇雕像的想法。后来他联系了作为雕塑家的朋友潘毅群。
South Korean organizers said that they planned to build replicas of the new statues in Shanghai and San Francisco, and that they planned to invite sculptors from other Asian counties where the women were recruited — such as the Philippines — to make the campaign regional. A third, empty chair stands next to the two girls in the new monument, where organizers hope a third statue will eventually be.
韩国组织者表示，他们计划在上海和旧金山制作新雕像的复制品，还会邀请菲律宾等其他存在慰安妇的亚洲国家的雕塑家参与制作，使其成为地区性活动。在新雕像中，两位少女的旁边还有一把空椅子，组织者希望最终在那里竖立第三座雕像。