China is not shy about using “panda diplomacy” as a tool of soft power. It has a long tradition of bestowing nations with the bamboo-chomping mammals, most famously in the early 1970s, when Beijing sent two pandas to the National Zoo in Washington amid President Richard M. Nixon’s groundbreaking diplomatic opening to China.
中国从不忌讳把“熊猫外交”当成软实力的一种工具。中国有将这种啃竹子的哺乳动物赐予他国的悠久传统，最著名的一次是在上世纪70年代初，美国总统理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)开创性地敞开对中国的外交大门之后，北京将两只熊猫赠送给了位于华盛顿的国家动物园(National Zoo)。
But panda diplomacy, it appears, cuts both ways. With tensions high between Malaysia and China over the search and investigation into the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, two pandas that were bound for a zoo near Kuala Lumpur this month won’t be making the trip.
然而，熊猫外交看来还有另一种用法。中国与马来西亚之间的关系，因为失踪的马来西亚航空公司370航班的搜索和调查工作，而变得紧张，所以这个月原定要前往吉隆坡附近一家动物园的两只熊猫，将不做这次旅行。
The South China Morning Post reports that the pandas, Feng Yi and Fu Wa, will remain in their Sichuan Province abode, at least for the near future. The Chinese Embassy in Kuala Lumpur said the decision to postpone the transfer was made out of respect for the families of the passengers on the missing plane, which carried more than 150 Chinese citizens.
《南华早报》消息称，这两只分别名为“凤仪”和“福娃”的熊猫将继续留在它们在四川的老家，至少在近期内不会动身。中国驻吉隆坡大使馆称，做出推迟转让熊猫的决定是为了尊重失踪飞机上乘客的家属，这架飞机上载有150多名中国人。
The Malaysian authorities have come under intense criticism from the passengers’ relatives and from the Chinese government, which faults Kuala Lumpur for a lack of transparency and generally bungling its response to the disappearance of the plane. In recent days, though, officials involved in the search have expressed confidence that they are getting closer to finding the plane, making this a particularly sensitive time for the families.
马来西亚当局一直受到这些乘客家属以及中国政府的强烈指责，中国政府批评吉隆坡缺乏透明度，对飞机失踪的回应在总体上失误。然而，最近几天，参与搜寻工作的官员对正在越来越接近找到这架飞机表达了信心，这对乘客家属来说，是个特别敏感的时期。
China and Malaysia are close trading partners, and the gift of the two pandas was meant to mark the 40th anniversary of diplomatic ties between the two countries. They were to make their new home at Zoo Negara starting on April 16, bedding down at a fancy new four-acre panda complex — complete with a special exercise area — that cost Malaysia nearly $60 million to build. Malaysia’s natural resources and environment minister, Datuk Seri G. Palanivel, noted that those who constructed the new digs “prepared bamboo fields to ensure enough food supply for the next 10 years.”
中国和马来西亚是关系密切的贸易伙伴，赠送两只熊猫是为了纪念两国建交40周年。这两只熊猫原定于4月16日在马来西亚国家动物园(Zoo Negara)的新家开始生活，这里的新熊猫馆占地约24亩，设备齐全，包括一个特别的运动场地，马来西亚为修建这座熊猫馆投入了近6000万美元（约合3.7亿元人民币）。马来西亚自然资源和环境部部长达图·赛里·G·帕拉尼韦尔(Datuk Seri G. Palanivel)表示，建造这座熊猫住所的人专门“准备了一片竹林，种的竹子足够熊猫吃上10年”。
It was not known when Feng Yi and Fu Wa might eventually make their journey south, or whether the delay portended their staying in Sichuan perhaps permanently.
“凤仪”和“福娃”是否最终会南下，还是这次推迟预示着它们将永远留在四川，尚不清楚。