KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia —Officials from Malaysia, Australia and China said Thursday that they would double the search area for the Malaysia Airlines jet that disappeared more than a year ago if it is not found by the end of next month.
马来西亚吉隆坡——来自马来西亚、澳大利亚和中国的官员周四表示，如果下月底之前还找不到马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)一年多前失踪的那架喷气式客机，他们便会将搜索范围扩大一倍。
Vessels that have scoured the southern Indian Ocean far off the coast of Australia for months have found no trace of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which disappeared on March 8, 2014, with 239 people aboard.
船只已在远离澳大利亚海岸的南印度洋搜索了数月，但仍未发现马航MH370航班的踪迹。该航班于2014年3月8日失踪，机上载有239人。
“We are moving to widen out the search area and to extend it in every direction,” Warren Truss, Australia’s deputy prime minister, said after a meeting here with Liow Tiong Lai and Yang Chuantang, the Malaysian and Chinese transportation ministers.
“我们打算扩大搜索区域，向各个方向延伸，”澳大利亚副总理瓦伦·特拉斯(Warren Truss)在结束了与马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)，以及中国交通运输部部长杨传堂在这里召开的会议后说。
An area of about 23,100 square miles has been deemed the plane’s most likely resting place, based on technical data transmitted during the flight by an onboard aircraft maintenance system. About 60 percent of that area has been searched, according to the Australian agency coordinating the deep-sea search; the agency said it expected the search of the remaining 40 percent to be largely completed by next month.
从一个机载维修系统在飞行期间传出的技术数据来看，一片面积约2.31万平方英里（约6万平方公里）的区域被认为最有可能是该飞机的归宿地。据协调深海搜索的澳大利亚机构称，该区域大约60%的地方已经搜索过了。该机构表示，对剩下40%的搜索工作，预计在下月底之前便会基本结束。
The search will be expanded to about 46,000 square miles if Flight 370 is not found by the end of May, and the expanded search could last “at least the rest of this year,” Mr. Truss said.
特拉斯称，如果5月底之前还找不到MH370航班，搜索范围将扩大至4.6万平方英里，且扩大后的搜索工作可能“至少会持续到今年年底”。
Officials said the cost of expanding the search would be around $35 million, which would be shared by Australia and Malaysia. The two governments together have already committed around $86 million for the search.
官员称，扩大搜索范围的成本将在3500万美元（约合2.2亿元人民币）左右，将由澳大利亚和马来西亚共同承担。两国政府已共同为搜索工作投入了约8600万美元。
The Boeing 777 dropped off radar screens during a routine red-eye flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia’s capital, to Beijing. Based on data from military radar and the plane’s electronic communications with a satellite, the authorities say it inexplicably changed course, flying west over the Malaysian Peninsula and eventually south to the Indian Ocean.
这架波音777飞机在从马来西亚首都吉隆坡飞往北京的常规红眼航班期间从雷达屏幕上消失。根据军方雷达和飞机与卫星的电子通讯的数据，相关机构得出结论，飞机莫名其妙地改变了航线，向西飞越马来半岛，最终向南飞往印度洋。
All 239 of the passengers and crew members who were on the plane, most of them Chinese, are presumed dead.
机上239名乘客和机组人员已推定罹难，其中大多数为中国人。
Four ships are under contract by the Australian and Malaysian governments to search for wreckage from the plane, but bad weather has at times bought the search to a standstill, with sea swells reaching up to 55 feet as cyclones churned through the ocean.
澳大利亚及马利西亚政府承包了四艘船搜寻飞机残骸，但糟糕的天气有时会导致搜寻工作中止，飓风袭来时，海浪会高达55英尺（约17米）。
Fugro Survey, a division of a Dutch company hired by the Australian government to look for the wreckage, has three vessels at sea, some of which tow side-scan sonar devices that glide above the ocean floor at the end of fiber-optic cables up to 10,000 yards long.
澳大利亚政府聘请辉固调查(Fugro Survey)搜寻残骸，辉固调查是一家荷兰公司的下属公司。该公司派出了三艘船参与海上搜寻行动，一些船只采用最长可达1万码（约合9100米）的光纤缆线，拖曳着侧扫声纳设备在海底滑行。
The search area covers an area where the ocean floor has never been fully mapped. Mr. Truss said search crews were mapping extinct volcanoes and other previously unknown geological formations.
搜索区域中的海底没有经过详尽测绘。特拉斯表示，搜寻人员正在对死火山及此前未知的其他地质构造进行勘测。