SEOUL, South Korea — China and South Korea agreed on Monday to impose tougher sanctions on North Korea if it carries out nuclear or intercontinental ballistic missile tests, a senior South Korean diplomat said, as the United States increased its pressure on the North by moving a Navy carrier strike group toward the Korean Peninsula.
韩国首尔——据韩国的一名高级外交官称，中国和韩国周一同意，如果朝鲜进行核武器或洲际弹道导弹试验，就会对该国施加更严厉的制裁。与此同时，美国正派遣一支海军航空母舰打击编队向朝鲜半岛进发，增加对朝鲜的压力。
The South Korean announcement seemed intended to dissuade North Korea from conducting a test to mark a national holiday this week, but previous threats of sanctions have not deterred the North from pressing ahead with its nuclear program and tensions were running high in the region.
韩国公布的这个消息似乎旨在劝阻朝鲜本周为庆祝其国家节日而进行试验，但之前的制裁威胁并未能阻止朝鲜推进自己的核计划，该地区的局势高度紧张。
President Trump’s order to launch missile strikes against Syria last week, coupled with a decision to send the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson and several other warships back to waters near Korea, have led some South Koreans to fear that a military strike against North Korea might be looming, should the country conduct another nuclear test.
上周，特朗普总统下令对叙利亚发动导弹袭击，并决定将卡尔文森号航空母舰(Carl Vinson)和其他几艘军舰派回朝鲜半岛附近的水域。这些决定让一些韩国人担心，如果朝鲜再次进行核试验，对该国的军事打击可能正在逼近。
On Monday, Wu Dawei, the top Chinese envoy for international efforts to end North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, met with his South Korean counterpart, Kim Hong-kyun, in Seoul, the South’s capital, to discuss what to do about the North’s advancing nuclear and missile programs.
周一，加入了终止朝鲜核武器计划的国际努力的中方高级代表武大伟在韩国首都首尔会见了韩国官员金弘筠(Kim Hong-kyun)，讨论如何应对朝鲜不断推进的核武器和导弹项目。
“Both sides agreed that despite the international community’s warnings, if North Korea makes strategic provocations such as a nuclear test or an ICBM launch, there should be strong additional measures in accordance with United Nations Security Council resolutions,” Mr. Kim said after the meeting.
“双方都认为，尽管国际社会不断发出警告，但如果朝鲜进行核试验或洲际弹道导弹发射等战略挑衅，应该按照联合国安理会的决议采取强硬的额外措施，”金弘筠在会晤后表示。
Mr. Kim said he and Mr. Wu did not discuss a possible United States military strike against North Korea. Mr. Wu did not speak to reporters.
金弘筠称，他没有和武大伟讨论美国对朝鲜可能进行的军事打击。武大伟没有对记者讲话。
The Trump administration has been pressing Beijing to rein in its Communist neighbor by using its economic leverage or face unilateral American actions.
特朗普政府一直在敦促北京使用经济杠杆控制其共产主义邻国，否则美国就会采取单方面行动。
But in recent weeks, top aides to Mr. Trump have also publicly warned that they were not ruling out “military options.” Over the weekend, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said the American military strike against Syria was a signal to other countries that “a response is likely to be undertaken” if they pose a danger.
不过最近几周，特朗普的高级助手也公开警告称，他们并没有排除“军事选项”。周末，美国国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)表示，美国对叙利亚的军事打击是向其他国家发出一个信号：如果它们构成威胁，那么美国“有可能采取回应措施”。
“President Xi clearly understands” and “I think agrees, that the situation has intensified and has reached a certain level of threat that action has to be taken,” Mr. Tillerson said on the CBS News program “Face the Nation,” referring to the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, who met with Mr. Trump last week in Florida.
蒂勒森在CBS新闻节目《面对国民》(Face the Nation)中表示，“习主席清楚地知道”，“我认为他也同意，局势已经非常紧张，达到了一定的威胁程度，必须采取行动”。他指的是中国国家主席习近平，后者上周在佛罗里达州会见了特朗普。
Analysts and officials in South Korea fear that a pre-emptive military attack against North Korea, even one limited to taking out nuclear and missile bases, could set off a catastrophic retaliation and a full-scale war. Seoul lies within range of North Korean artillery and rockets amassed along the border.
韩国的分析人士和官员们担心，针对朝鲜的先发制人的军事打击——甚至连仅限于摧毁核武器和导弹基地的袭击——都可能引发灾难性的报复和全面战争。首尔位于朝鲜在边界布置的大炮和火箭的攻击范围内。
In South Korea, the idea of a pre-emptive strike has long been dismissed as unrealistic.
在韩国，先发制人的袭击长期以来被认为是不现实的。
But “under President Trump, we are afraid that that may not necessarily be so any more,” said Cheong Seong-chang, an analyst at the Sejong Institute, a think tank in South Korea.
但是，韩国智库世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)的分析师郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)表示，“在特朗普总统治下，我们担心，情况不一定再是这样了。”
Lee Sang-hyun, another Sejong Institute analyst, said that Mr. Trump appeared to make “impromptu” decisions on foreign policy.
世宗研究院的另一位分析师李相贤（Lee Sang-hyun，音）表示，特朗普似乎经常在外交政策方面做出“即兴”的决定。
But he said a pre-emptive strike remained only a “theoretical possibility.” There have been no signs of an imminent American military action against the North, such as the evacuation of tens of thousands of civilian Americans living in the South or the escalation of an alert level for South Korean and American military forces, Mr. Lee said.
但他表示，先发制人的袭击依然只是一种“理论上的可能性”。李相贤表示，没有迹象表明美国即将对朝鲜采取军事行动，比如撤离在韩国生活的数万名美国平民，或是提高韩国和美国军方的警戒水平。
The South Korean government also played down the possibility.
韩国政府也淡化了这种可能性。
Lee Duk-haeng, a spokesman for South Korea’s Unification Ministry, said, “All issues on the Korean Peninsula must be resolved peacefully.” South Korea was in close consultations with Washington, he said, and people “need not worry too much” about reports that the United States might attempt a strike against the North.
韩国统一部发言人李德恒（Lee Duk-haeng，音）表示：“朝鲜半岛的所有问题必须和平解决。”他表示，韩国正在与华盛顿密切磋商，人们“不必太担心”美国可能试图袭击朝鲜的报道。
On the question of a pre-emptive attack against the North, “It’s natural for us to have a different stance from the United States,” the unification minister, Hong Yong-pyo, was quoted as saying during a briefing for South Korean news outlets.
据说，统一部部长洪容杓(Hong Yong-pyo)在向韩国新闻媒体通报情况时表示，在关于向朝鲜发动先发制人的袭击问题上，“我们和美国的立场不同是很自然的”。
To South Koreans, Mr. Trump’s order to launch a barrage of missiles on Syria demonstrated his willingness to use military means against an adversary deemed particularly egregious. And the order to the Carl Vinson to return to waters near the Korean Peninsula appeared unusual, because it conducted exercises in the area last month.
对韩国人来说，特朗普下令对叙利亚发射一系列导弹，表明他愿意使用军事手段打击被他视为极其恶劣的对手。而命令卡尔文森号航母返回朝鲜半岛附近水域似乎也不同寻常，因为它上个月才在该地区进行了军事演习。
Moon Sang-gyun, a spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry, said the strike group was moving back to deter North Korean provocations in coming weeks.
韩国国防部发言人文相均(Moon Sang-gyun)表示，该打击编队的返回是为了在未来几周里遏制朝鲜的挑衅。
North Korea observes major anniversaries this month, including the April 15 birthday of its founder, Kim Il-sung, grandfather of the current leader, Kim Jong-un. Recent activities around the country’s nuclear test site have raised concerns that it might celebrate the anniversaries, as it has sometimes in the past, with tests of major military hardware such as a nuclear device.
本月，朝鲜要庆祝一些重要纪念日，包括4月15日其开国领袖金日成(Kim Il Sung)的生日，金日成是现任领导人金正恩的祖父。该国近期在核试验场附近进行的活动让人们担心，它可能会像过去的某些时候那样，用核装置等主要军事装备的测试作为周年纪念活动。
The North Korean anniversaries also overlap with annual joint military exercises by the United States and South Korea.
朝鲜的这些周年纪念日也与美韩的年度联合军演重合。
North Korea, which has called these exercises rehearsals for war, has often lashed out with weapons tests. Last week, it test-launched a ballistic missile on the eve of Mr. Trump’s meeting with Mr. Xi.
朝鲜称这些演习为战争预演，经常用武器试验作为回击。上周，在特朗普与习近平会晤前夕，它试射了一个弹道导弹。
On Sunday, North Korea said the United States’ missile strikes against Syria proved that nuclear weapons were justified to protect the country against the Americans.
周日，朝鲜表示，美国对叙利亚的导弹袭击证明，用核武器保护该国免受美国伤害是合理的。
“Some forces are loudmouthed that the recent U.S. military attack on Syria is an action of ‘warning,’” to North Korea, “but the latter is not frightened at such a threat,” the Korean Central News Agency quoted a spokesman for the North Korean Foreign Ministry as saying. He added that the North’s “tremendous military muscle with a nuclear force” would foil any American aggression.
朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)援引朝鲜外交部一位发言人的话说：“有些势力夸夸其谈，称美国前不久对叙利亚的军事袭击是对朝鲜的警告，但我们并不害怕这样的威胁。”这位发言人补充说，朝鲜“包括核武器在内的巨大军事力量”将挫败美国的任何侵略行动。