TOKYO — Eiji Toyoda, who as a member of Toyota Motor’s founding family and an architect of its “lean manufacturing” method helped turned the automaker into a global powerhouse and changed the face of modern manufacturing, died on Tuesday in Toyota City, Japan, where the company has its headquarters. He was 100.
创办丰田汽车公司(Toyota Motor)的丰田家族成员之一，丰田“精益生产”方式的缔造者丰田英二(Eiji Toyoda)，周二在公司总部所在地丰田市去世，享年100岁。他生前不但帮助把这家汽车制造商打造成了跨国巨头，还改变了现代制造业的面貌。
His death, at the Toyota Memorial Hospital, was caused by heart failure, the company said in a statement.
丰田汽车公司发表声明称，丰田英二因心力衰竭在丰田纪念医院(Toyota Memorial Hospital)去世。
Mr. Toyoda, a nephew of the Toyota Group founder, Sakichi Toyoda, was president of Toyota from 1967 to 1982 and continued as chairman and then as adviser until his death. In almost six decades with the company he helped transform a tiny spinoff of a textile loom maker into the world’s biggest automaker.
丰田英二是丰田集团创始人丰田佐吉(Sakichi Toyoda)的侄子，曾在1967年至1982年出任丰田汽车公司总裁，而后又担任过董事长，接下来则成为该公司的顾问，并在逝世之前一直保持这一身份。丰田英二在丰田汽车公司工作了将近60年，在他的帮助下，这家公司从一家纺织机制造商无足轻重的子公司，发展成了世界上最大的汽车生产商。
Early on, he helped put Toyota at the forefront of a wave of automobile production in Japan, pushing it to bolster its lineup, first by adding compact vehicles and sports cars in the 1960s and 1970s. In the 1980s he initiated the development of luxury models to compete with the likes of Mercedes-Benz and BMW, culminating with the Lexus brand in 1989.
早期，他帮助丰田公司置身日本汽车生产浪潮的前沿，推动其充实产品阵容，先是在上世纪六七十年代新增加了紧凑型轿车和跑车。到了80年代，他又着手开发奢侈车型，与梅赛德斯-奔驰（Mercedes-Benz）和宝马(BMW)等品牌展开竞争，并最终在1989年创立了雷克萨斯(Lexus)品牌。
Mr. Toyoda also pushed Toyota’s expansion overseas, helping to establish the company’s joint factory with General Motors in Fremont, Calif. The plant, known as Nummi, introduced Japanese lean-production methods to the United States as part of a migration of Japanese auto manufacturing to American soil. The company’s manufacturing efficiencies have helped maintain Toyota’s status as one of the top auto manufacturers and employers in the world.
丰田英二还推动了丰田汽车的海外扩张，帮助其在美国加利福尼亚州的弗里蒙特与通用汽车公司(General Motors)建立了合资企业。该公司名为新联合汽车制造公司(Nummi)，它把日本人的精益生产方式——作为日本汽车制造业向美国迁移的一部分——引入了美国。该公司的生产效率帮助丰田长期保持世界顶级汽车制造商和雇主的地位。
Nummi closed in 2010. It is now the site of a factory that makes the electric car trailblazer Tesla Motor.
新联合汽车制造公司在2010年关闭。那里现在变成了一个生产特斯拉汽车(Tesla Motors)的工厂。特斯拉是电动车领域的领导品牌。
In the early 1990s, it was Mr. Toyoda, known as a man of few words, who gave voice to a sense of crisis inside the company as Japan’s economic growth sputtered, arguing that Toyota needed to change the way it made cars if it hoped to survive in the 21st century. His urgings prompted the development of its popular Prius gas-electric hybrid, the manufacturing expert Satoshi Hino wrote in the 2005 book “Inside the Mind of Toyota.”
上世纪90年代初，在日本经济出现减缓迹象时，丰年英二这个以沉默寡言著称的男人，表达了对丰田汽车公司内部危机的担忧。他认为，如果丰田想在21世纪生存下去，就必须改变其生产汽车的方式。制造业专家日野聪(Satoshi Hino)在2005年出版的《丰田的内心世界》(Inside the Mind of Toyota)一书中写到：在他的推动下，丰田加快了备受欢迎的普锐斯(Prius)油电混合动力汽车的开发。
Mr. Toyoda was born on Sept. 12, 1913, near Nagoya in central Japan, the second son of Heikichi and Nao Toyoda. He spent much of his youth at his family’s textile mill and took an early interest in machines, he said in his 1988 autobiography, “Toyota: Fifty Years in Motion.” He graduated from the University of Tokyo in 1936 with a mechanical engineering degree and joined his family’s loom business.
丰田英二是丰田平吉(Heikichi Toyoda)和丰田直（Nao Toyoda，音译）的第二个儿子，1913年9月12日出生在日本中部的名古屋附近。他在1988年出版的自传《丰田：不断进取50年》(Toyota: Fifty Years in Motion)中谈到，自己的大部分青少年时光都是在丰田家族的纺织厂里度过的，其间对机器产生了最初的兴趣。1936年，他从东京大学毕业，获得机械工程学位，随后便加入了丰田家族的纺织机业务当中。
The following year, Kiichiro Toyoda, son of the founder, created Toyota Motor, taking the young Eiji Toyoda with him.
第二年，丰田集团创始人之子丰田喜一郎(Kiichiro Toyoda)创办了丰田汽车公司，并把年轻的丰田英二招至麾下。
Assigned to a division devoted to resolving quality problems, Mr. Toyoda is said to have developed an uncanny ability to spot waste.
丰田英二被分配到了负责解决质量问题的部门，据说他就是在那里培养了不寻常的发现浪费现象的能力。
In 1950 he set out on what would turn out to be a pivotal three-month tour to survey Ford’s Rouge plant in Detroit, then the largest and most efficient factory in the world. Before the war, the military government prevented Toyota from building passenger cars, compelling it to make trucks for Japan’s war effort instead.
上世纪50年代，他前往当时世界上最大、最高效的工厂——福特位于底特律的洛基(Rouge)工厂调研。事后证明，这三个月的游历经历十分重要。二战结束前，日本军政府不准丰田生产乘用车，而是强迫它生产卡车，以满足日本战时所需。
By 1950, Toyota had produced just 2,685 automobiles, compared with the 7,000 vehicles the Rouge plant was rolling out in a single day, according to “The Machine That Changed the World,” a 1990 study by James P. Womack, Daniel T. Jones and Daniel Roos.
根据詹姆斯·P·沃麦克(James P. Womack)、丹尼尔·T·琼斯(Daniel T. Jones)和丹尼尔·鲁斯(Daniel Roos)1990年出版的研究报告《改变世界的机器》(The Machine That Changed the World)，截至1950年，丰田只生产了2658辆汽车，相比之下，在洛基工厂每天都会有7000辆汽车下线。
Mr. Toyoda was unfazed, writing back to headquarters that he “thought there were some possibilities to improve the production system.” He brought back a thick booklet that outlined some of Ford’s quality-control methods; the company translated it into Japanese, changing “Ford” to “Toyota” in all references.
丰田英二泰然自若，给总部回信称，他“认为存在某些改进生产体系的可能性”。他带回了一本厚厚的册子，上边是对福特的一些质量控制方法的扼要说明。丰田汽车公司把这本小册子译成了日文，并把上边所有的“福特”字样都改成了“丰田”。
Mr. Toyoda went on to oversee Toyota’s Motomachi plant, a huge undertaking that gave the automaker the capacity to produce 5,000 passenger vehicles a month at a time when all of Japan produced about 7,000 vehicles a month. The plant, completed in 1959, was soon running at full capacity and gave Toyota a decisive lead over its domestic rival Nissan and the confidence to turn its eyes overseas.
丰田英二泰然自若，给总部回信称，他“认为存在某些改进生产体系的可能性”。他带回了一本厚厚的册子，上边是对福特的一些质量控制方法的扼要说明。丰田汽车公司把这本小册子译成了日文，并把上边所有的“福特”字样都改成了“丰田”。
Even as he aggressively expanded production at Toyota, Mr. Toyoda implemented a manufacturing culture based on concepts like “kaizen,” a commitment to continuous improvements suggested by the workers themselves, and just-in-time production, a tireless effort to eliminate waste. Those ideas became a corporate philosophy known as the “Toyota Way.”
即便是在积极扩张丰田产能之际，丰田英二依然在奉行以“持续改善”（kaizen，即承诺听取工人的各种建议，取得连续不断的改善）、及时生产（just-in-time production，即不懈努力消除浪费）等理念为基础的制造业文化。这些理念最终形成一种企业哲学，名为“丰田模式”
“One of the features of the Japanese workers is that they use their brains as well as their hands,” he said in an interview with the author Masaaki Imai for the 1986 book “Kaizen.” “Our workers provide 1.5 million suggestions a year, and 95 percent of them are put to practical use. There is an almost tangible concern for improvement in the air at Toyota.”
“日本工人的一个特点是手脑并用，”他在接受1986年出版的《持续改善》（Kaizen）一书作者采访时说。“我们的工人每年提出150万个建议，其中95%都会被应用在实际工作中。在丰田的企业氛围中，对于改进工作有一种实实在在的关注。”
The methods Mr. Toyoda nurtured have had global influence. Though Toyota long guarded its manufacturing techniques, the company came to recognize a broader interest in its model and has offered consulting services to manufacturers outside the automotive industry and to nonprofit organizations. 
由丰田英二建立起来的这种模式具有全球影响力。尽管丰田在很长时间内都对生产技术严防死守，但该公司认识到外界普遍对其模式抱有兴趣，目前已经在向非营利机构以及汽车业之外的制造商提供咨询服务。
In 1994, the United States Automotive Hall of Fame inducted Mr. Toyoda for his contributions to car manufacturing. He was the second honoree from Japan, after the Honda Motor founder, Soichiro Honda.
由于在汽车制造方面的突出贡献，丰田英二在1994年入选美国汽车名人堂（United States Automotive Hall of Fame）。他是继本田汽车(Honda Motor)创始人本田宗一郎（Soichiro Honda）之后第二个入选的日本人。
“Ever since Toyota’s establishment in 1937, I have been involved in this wonderful business, and as long as my engine keeps running, I intend to give back as much as I can for the industry’s further development,” Mr. Toyoda said in a statement at the time.
丰田英二当时在一份声明中表示，“丰田汽车是一家很棒的企业，自从它1937年创立以来，我一直参与其中。只要我一息尚存，就要尽我所能，回报厚爱，为汽车产业的进一步发展做出更多贡献。”
Mr. Toyoda had three sons and a daughter with his wife, Kazuko. He is survived by Kanshiro, his eldest son.
丰田英二与妻子和子（Kazuko，音译）育有三子一女。现在只有长子简七郎（Kanshiro，音译）尚在人世。