One of the first characters to appear in “Inferno” is a spike-haired, malevolent biker chick dressed in black leather. She looks like trouble in more ways than one. What is the girl with the dragon tattoo doing in Dan Brown’s new book?
《地狱》(Inferno)中最先出现的人物之一是一个留着鸡冠头，身穿黑皮衣，骑摩托车的坏脾气少女。她好像惹上不止一桩麻烦。“龙纹身的女孩”到丹·布朗(Dan Brown)的新书里来干嘛？
She’s scaring Robert Langdon, the tweedy symbologist who stars in Mr. Brown’s breakneck, brain-teasing capers. Reader, she will scare you too. The early sections of “Inferno” come so close to self-parody that Mr. Brown seems to have lost his bearings — as has Langdon, who begins the book in a hospital bed with a case of amnesia that dulls his showy wits. When Robert Langdon of “The Da Vinci Code” can’t tell what day of the week it is, the whole Dan Brown brainiac franchise appears to be in trouble.
她吓坏了罗伯特·兰登(Robert Langdon)——这位爱穿粗花呢的符号学家，经常在布朗危险而又挑战智力的活动中充当主角。读者注意了，这个女孩也会吓着你的。《地狱》的前几章有点像对布朗自己的拙劣模仿，他似乎失去了方向——而兰登也是如此。本书以兰登躺在医院病床上开始，他患上了健忘症，本来极度活跃的智力也变得麻痹起来。一旦《达芬奇密码》(The Da Vinci Code)里的罗伯特·兰登连今天是星期几都说不上来，丹·布朗这套高智商系列小说似乎也就有麻烦了。
But “Inferno” is jampacked with tricks. And that shaky opening turns out to be one of them. To the great relief of anyone who enjoys him, Mr. Brown winds up not only laying a breadcrumb trail of clues about Dante (this is “Inferno,” after all) but also playing games with time, gender, identity, famous tourist attractions and futuristic medicine. Then there’s the bit with the symmetrical clockwise Archimedean spiral, which will have people slowly rotating their copies of “Inferno,” trying not to look silly as they scrutinize the rounded calligraphy on Page 255.
但《地狱》中充满诡计。这个可疑的开头后来也被证明是诡计之一。布朗并没有仅仅依照但丁的生平事迹（这本书毕竟名叫“地狱”）展开一系列蛛丝马迹，也涉及时间、性别、身份、名胜古迹和未来的药物等题材，这不禁令他的书迷们松了口气。此外书中还涉及一点对称的顺时针阿基米德螺线，会让读者在看到第255页的圆形字体排版时把手中的《地狱》一书慢慢转动，好让自己看上去不是那么傻气。
There is even a twist built into its 14/5/13 publication date, a numerical anagram of the 3.1415, the approximate value of pi. Why? Because Dante divided hell into circles. Because pi is a hint about measuring them. And because Mr. Brown’s readership has never met an embedded secret it didn’t like.
甚至连本书的发行日期也暗含玄机：13年5月14日，这几个数字颠倒过来可以构成3.1415，也就是圆周率的近似值。为什么？因为但丁把地狱划分为九层圆环，而圆周率暗示着对它们进行度量。还因为布朗的读者们遇到的所有隐含秘密都与它相似。
As is his wont, Mr. Brown begins with a crazily grandiose prologue, this one a little more unhinged than usual. “O, willful ignorants!” exclaims some mystery figure. “Do you not see the future? Do you not grasp the splendor of my creation?” That said, this guy with a God complex leaps off a building — or, as “Inferno” puts it, takes his “final step, into the abyss.” And then Robert Langdon’s beautiful, ponytailed doctor yanks him out of bed so they can begin racing breathlessly through ... where?
依照惯例，布朗的书以狂乱宏大的序言开始，这一次显得尤其疯狂。“啊，任性的愚昧者们！”一个神秘的人物说道，“你们难道无法看到未来？你们难道无法理解我的创造有多么辉煌？”然后，这个有上帝情结的人从一栋建筑上一跃而下，或者如《地狱》中所写的那样，是“迈出了跨进地狱深渊的最后一步”。然后罗伯特·兰登梳着马尾辫的美女主治医生一把将他从床上拉起，两人开始了惊心动魄的追逐，目标是……哪里？
Langdon thought he was in Cambridge, Mass., teaching at Harvard. But instead he is in Florence, Italy, with his beloved Mickey Mouse watch (sigh) gone and his tweed jacket (bearing “Harris Tweed’s iconic orb adorned with 13 buttonlike jewels and topped by a Maltese cross”) in tatters. Sienna, the ponytailed doctor, happens to have an I.Q. of 208 and a neighbor whose locally tailored suit and loafers fit Langdon perfectly. So he’s looking very debonair as he dashes through the most famed and historically important sights in Florence, trying to figure out what a cylinder hidden inside a titanium tube with a biometric seal and a biohazard symbol is telling him.
兰登觉得自己是在马萨诸塞的剑桥，同时也在哈佛教书。但他其实是在意大利的佛罗伦萨，他喜欢的米老鼠手表（唉）丢失了，他的粗花呢外套（上面有“哈里斯粗花呢标志的球形图案，装饰着13颗纽扣形状的珠宝，顶端是马耳他十字形”）被撕烂了。那个留着马尾辫的女医生西恩娜恰好智商高达208，她穿的本地产女式西装和平底鞋也和兰登正好搭配。于是兰登自信而愉快地在佛罗伦萨的名胜古迹之间穿行，试图揭示一个装在带有生物封印的钛管中的圆柱体，以及一个生物灾害符号当中隐藏的秘密。
It’s a tiny projector that offers a scrambled version of a Botticelli image, “La Mappa dell’Inferno.” And that sends Langdon and Sienna off to the races, engaging in one of those book-length scavenger hunts that Mr. Brown creates so energetically. Sure, there’s an awful lot of touristy detail in “Inferno.” And Langdon will always choose a big word over a small one. But “Inferno” picks three of the world’s most strategically significant, antiquity-rich cities as its settings, and Langdon makes a splendid tour guide and art critic throughout. While it would be unsporting to say exactly which cities are involved, two are Italian. As for the third, it is in both Europe and Asia, and Langdon finds a copy of his own “Christian Symbols in the Muslim World” in a museum gift shop at one of its most glorious attractions. “Now I know the one place on earth that carries that book,” he thinks to himself.
一个小型放映机中出现了混乱的波提切利(Botticelli)画作：《九层地狱图》(La Mappa dell’Inferno)。这让兰登和西恩娜卷入了事件，又开始了一场对食腐者的狩猎，布朗再一次以整本书的长度热情洋溢地描述了这个狩猎故事。兰登总是喜欢使用宏大的词语，而不是常见的字眼。但《地狱》选择了三个世界上最有战略意义、遍布名胜古迹的城市作为故事发生的地点，兰登全程充当好导游和艺术评论家角色。在这里说出到底是哪三个城市显得不够公平，不过可以告诉你其中两个是在意大利，第三个则是介于欧亚之间。兰登在这座城市最著名景点的博物馆礼品店里找到了他自己的书《穆斯林世界中的基督教符号》(Christian Symbols in the Muslim World)。“现在我知道世界上总算有一个地方有这本书了，”他想。
But it takes more than geography to keep a Brown escapade spinning. The formula also calls for sinister cultism of some sort, and in this case the dark scheming involves overpopulation. One character, Zobrist, is a wealthy Malthusian with a powerful, secretive, high-tech army at his command (Mr. Brown says it is real, but he has given it “the Consortium” as a fake name) and a doomsday plot to implement. While talking about controlling the rapid growth in population with the head of the World Health Organization, Zobrist is told, “We’re at seven billion now, so it’s a little late for that.” His reply, a fine specimen of mustache-twirling villainy: “Is it?”
但是要展开冒险，布朗需要的不仅仅是地理学。他小说的公式中还有某种恶毒的狂热主义，在这本书里是针对人口过剩的黑暗阴谋。书中一个名叫佐布里斯特的人物是富有的马尔萨斯主义者，拥有一支强大的高科技秘密军队（布朗说，这支军队是真实存在的，但他在书中用“共同体”作为它的假名），他准备实施一个末日计划。在和世界卫生组织的领导者讨论控制人口增长过快问题时，佐布里斯特被告知，“地球上现在有70亿人口，现在再来控制人口有点晚了。”佐布里斯特以阴险恶人的典型口吻答道：“晚么？”
There’s a lot more in “Inferno” along these lines. And it all ties together. Dante’s nightmare vision becomes the book’s visual correlative for what its scientific calculations suggest. And eventually the book involves itself with Transhumanism, genetic manipulation and the potential for pandemics. Just as Mr. Brown’s “Lost Symbol” tried to stir interest in thenoetic sciences (studying mind-body connections). “Inferno” puts the idea of a plague front and center, invoking the black plague, its casualty count and its culling effect on mankind. Mr. Brown is more serious than usual when he invokes Dante’s dire warning: “The darkest places in hell are reserved for those who maintain their neutrality in times of moral crisis.”
《地狱》就这些线索讲了很多。所有线索都密切相连。但丁噩梦中的景象成为书中科学推测的具象化。最终本书探讨了超人哲学，基因控制和疾病在全世界流行的可能性。正如布朗在《失落的秘符》(Lost Symbol)中试图为思维科学（研究身心联系的科学）注入趣味，《地狱》把大瘟疫的概念推向前台，重新召唤出黑死病，它造成的死亡率与它对人类的优胜劣汰效果。布朗比以往任何时候都要严肃地提起了但丁恐怖的警告：“地狱中最黑暗的地方是为那些在道德危机中袖手旁观的人保留的。”
But the main emphasis here is hardly on gloom. It is on the prodigious research and love of trivia that inform Mr. Brown’s stories (this one makes mincemeat of all those factoid-heavy wannabes, like Matthew Pearl’s “Dante Club”), the ease with which he sets them in motion, the nifty tricks (Dante’s plaster death mask is pilfered from its museum setting, then toted through the secret passageways of Florence in a Ziploc bag) and the cliffhangers. (Sienna: “Don’t tell me we’re in the wrong museum.” Robert: “Sienna, we’re in the wrong country.”) There is the gamesmanship that goes with crypto-bits like “PPPPPPP.” (Sienna: “Seven Ps is ... a message?” Robert, grinning: “It is. And if you’ve studied Dante, it’s a very clear one.”)
但书中最重要的东西并不是那一团阴郁。布朗的小说中，惊人的调查与对琐事的热爱才是重点（这一点足以击溃马修·珀尔[Matthew Pearl]的《但丁俱乐部》[Dante Club]之类严重跟风者）；此外还有他轻松驾驭这些调查与细节的方式；那些精彩的诡计（但丁的石膏死亡面具从博物馆中失窃，被装在密封塑料袋里，带进佛罗伦萨一个秘密走廊）和悬念（西恩娜：“别告诉我我们走错了博物馆。”罗伯特：“西恩娜，我们走错了国家。”）在这本书里还有很多狡猾的内容，诸如密码般的“PPPPPPP”（西恩娜：“七个P是一种信号吗？”罗伯特大笑：“是的，假如你研究但丁，就知道这是个明显的信号。”）
And finally there is the sense of play that saves Mr. Brown’s books from ponderousness, even when he is waxing wise about some ancient mystery or architectural wonder. Once the globe-trotting begins in earnest, private planes figure in the story and Langdon calls his publisher to ask for one. No, says the publisher, then adds: “Let me rephrase that. We don’t have access to private jets for authors of tomes about religious history. If you want to write ‘Fifty Shades of Iconography,’ we can talk.”
最后，布朗这本书中还有一种戏谑之感，使它免于呆板笨重，即便在他讲解古老秘史和建筑奇观时也是如此。书中兰顿满怀热情地要开始旅行，私人飞机在故事中扮演很重要的角色，兰顿给自己的出版商打电话要一架飞机。不行，出版商说，然后又补充道：“这么说吧，我们不提供私人飞机给写大部头宗教史的作者。如果你想写《肖像学的五十道阴影》(Fifty Shades of Iconography)，我们还可以谈谈。”
Guess what: Mr. Brown has already written it. And then some.
你猜怎么：这本书布朗已经写出来了，然后还有其他的呢。