NEW DELHI — A 51-year-old Danish woman said she had been gang-raped at knife point by seven or eight men in central New Delhi after she approached them to ask for directions to her hotel, the Delhi police reported on Wednesday.
新德里——德里警方周三称，一名51岁的丹麦女性说，她在新德里市中心被七八名男子用刀劫持，遭到轮奸。此前，她曾向这些男子询问回酒店的路。
Late Wednesday night, the police announced the arrest of two men they described as “vagabonds” living at the capital’s railway station, and said they had property stolen from the tourist, including a glasses case, an iPod and earplugs. The woman, who was staying at a hotel in an area popular with backpackers, told the police that the men had taken her to a secluded spot near the railway station on Tuesday and raped her repeatedly, said Rajan Bhagat, a spokesman for the Delhi police.
周三夜里，警方宣布，已经逮捕了住在新德里火车站的两名男子。警方称，这两名男子是“无业游民”，并表示，他们藏匿着从这名游客那里抢来的财物，包括一个眼镜盒，一台iPod及耳机。德里警方的发言人拉詹·巴加(Rajan Bhagat)说，这名女子当时住在广受背包客欢迎的一个区域的酒店里，她对警方称，周二，这些男子把她带到火车站附近的一个偏僻地点，对她实施了多次强奸。
The woman arrived in Delhi on Monday from Agra, the site of the Taj Mahal, and was planning to leave India on Wednesday morning, said a manager at the hotel where she was staying.
这名女子下榻的酒店的经理说，她周一从泰姬陵的所在地阿格拉抵达德里，并打算于周三上午离开印度。
The manager, who refused to give his name for fear of harming the hotel’s reputation, said she returned to the hotel around 8:30 p.m. and asked the reception desk to call the police. After consultations with the police and staff members from the Danish Embassy that lasted until the early morning hours, she caught her morning flight out of India, the employee said.
由于担心对酒店声誉造成影响，这名经理拒绝透露姓名。他说，她大约晚上8点半回到酒店，并让酒店前台报警。这名雇员说，在与警方和丹麦大使馆工作人员一直交涉到清晨之后，她乘坐她早上的航班离开了印度。
NDTV, an Indian news channel, reported that the woman was held by the men from 4 to 7 p.m., after which she made her way back to her hotel. Mr. Bhagat said the woman had refused to be medically examined and the police were trying to gather other evidence.
新德里电视台(NDTV)报道说，这些男子从下午4点到7点对该女子实施了侵害，在这之后，该女子回到了酒店。巴加说，这名女子拒绝接受医疗检查，警方正努力搜集其他证据。
Freddy Svane, Denmark’s ambassador to India, confirmed that an allegation of rape had been made by a Danish citizen on Tuesday.
丹麦驻印度大使弗雷迪·斯瓦内(Freddy Svane)证实，确有一名丹麦居民周二报案称遭到强奸。
The report of the attack comes after a year of intense national debate on the problem of sexual violence, set off by an attack on a 23-year-old physiotherapy student in New Delhi in December 2012. The victim, who had boarded a private bus along with a male friend, was gang-raped and brutalized with a metal rod and later died from her injuries. Amid widespread outrage over the attack, India’s Parliament stiffened penalties for sexual assault, and four of the woman’s attackers were sentenced to death by hanging.
这次性侵事件发生前的一年里，印度全国对性犯罪问题展开了激烈的讨论，触发这场讨论的是2012年12月一名23岁理疗专业学生在新德里遭强奸一案。受害者当时与一名男性朋友坐上了一辆私营巴士，此后遭到强奸，并被犯罪分子用金属棒殴打，最后由于伤情过重死亡。由于这起事件引发了公众的愤怒，印度议会增加了对性犯罪的惩罚力度，该案的四名罪犯被处以绞刑。
Although the per capita rate of rapes reported to the police in India is below that of many developed nations, some experts believe that many sexual attacks go unreported and that the actual number is far higher.
尽管印度警方录得的人均强奸犯罪率低于许多发达国家，但一些专家认为，由于许多性侵事件并没有被举报，实际数字要比官方数据高得多。
Tourism figures fell in the wake of the 2012 gang rape, with visits by women dropping 35 percent in the three months that followed it, according to the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India.
根据印度联合工商会(Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India)的数据，2012年的这起轮奸案发生后，到印度旅游的人数下滑，在案发后的三个月，女性游客减少了35%。
Attacks on tourists have been reported in the meantime. Last March, a group of men raped a 39-year-old Swiss tourist and attacked her husband as the couple camped during a bicycle trip across the state of Madhya Pradesh in central India. Six men received life sentences in the crime.
在此期间也发生了游客遭遇性侵的案件。去年3月，几名男子强奸了一名39岁的瑞士游客，并袭击了她的丈夫。案发时这对夫妇正在露营，他们当时是在骑行穿越印度中部的中央邦的旅途中。涉案的六名男子后来被判处终身监禁。
Earlier this month, a 33-year-old Polish woman reported to the police that she had been drugged and raped by a taxi driver who offered to drive her to Delhi along with her 2-year-old daughter, local media reported.
据当地媒体报道，本月早些时候，一名33岁的波兰女子报案称，她被一名出租车司机下迷药并强奸。此前，这名司机主动提出把该女子和她两岁的女儿送到德里。
And an 18-year-old German woman told the police that she had been assaulted in the sleeping compartment of a train headed for Chennai, formerly Madras. Though she made the report several days after the encounter, too late to gather medical evidence in the case, a man from Bihar State has been arrested in connection with the assault, Seema Agarwal, a police inspector general, told NDTV.
在另一起案件中，一名18岁的德国女子对警方称，她在前往金奈（旧称马德拉斯）的火车卧铺隔间被性侵。高级警官西玛·阿加瓦尔(Seema Agarwal)告诉NDTV，尽管该女子在案发几日后才报案，由于时间太长已无法获得医学证据，一名比哈尔邦男子已经因为与这起事件有关而被逮捕。