COPENHAGEN — He said he was into S-and-M, but not with his submarine passenger. He said she died on board in an accident, and he buried her at sea because that was maritime tradition. And why did he initially lie to the police about what happened? He said he wanted to see his wife and his three cats.
哥本哈根——他说他热衷于虐恋(S-and-M)，但没有和他潜艇上的乘客试过。他说她因意外事故在船上丧生，还说将她葬入海底是遵照航海传统。为什么他一开始就事情经过对警察撒谎？他说他想见他的妻子和他的三只猫。
Peter Madsen, a Danish inventor, was charged on Tuesday with the murder of a Swedish journalist, Kim Wall, who had boarded his submarine on Aug. 10 to interview him for an article.
周二，丹麦发明家彼得·马德森(Peter Madsen)被指控谋杀瑞典记者金·沃尔(Kim Wall)。她在8月10日登上马德森的潜艇，为了一篇报道对他进行采访。
Questioned by lawyers during a court appearance that lasted four and a half hours, Mr. Madsen furnished many details but did not answer an essential question: How did Ms. Wall’s mutilated body — she was missing her head, arms and legs — end up in a bay near Copenhagen, 11 days after she and Mr. Madsen set out on his 55-foot submarine?
在长达四个半小时的庭审中，马德森接受了律师的询问。他提供了许多细节，但没有回答一个根本性的问题：为什么在他和沃尔登上那艘55英尺长（约合17米）的潜艇后的第11天，沃尔缺少四肢和头的残尸会出现在哥本哈根附近的海岸？
Mr. Madsen’s insistence that he did not kill or dismember Ms. Wall was met with skepticism.
马德森坚决否认杀死或肢解了沃尔，他的说法备受怀疑。
The judge, Anette Burko of Copenhagen District Court, said his account was “not reasonable.” She approved the prosecution’s request to upgrade the accusation against Mr. Madsen, who was initially charged with involuntary manslaughter, to manslaughter, which in Danish law implies intentional homicide and is the legal equivalent of murder. She ordered him held for an additional four weeks and scheduled him to appear in court again on Oct. 3.
哥本哈根地区法院的法官安尼特·贝可(Anette Burko)说，马德森的解释“不合理”。她批准了检方的请求，将最初指控马德森的过失杀人罪升至为杀人罪。在丹麦法律中，这意味着蓄意杀人，在法律上等同于谋杀。她命令多关押马德森四周，并安排他于10月3日再次出庭。
The case has riveted Scandinavia and gotten attention worldwide.
此案引起了北欧诸国的注意，并得到了全世界的关注。
Ms. Wall, a prolific journalist who had written for The New York Times among many publications, had planned to move to China with her boyfriend. A native of Trelleborg, Sweden, she had lived in many countries, graduated from the London School of Economics and received two master’s degrees from Columbia University. She had reported from Uganda, Sri Lanka and Cuba.
沃尔是一位多产的记者，发表过多篇报道，曾为《纽约时报》撰文，她原本计划与男友一起搬到中国。沃尔来自瑞典特瑞堡，在许多国家居住过，她毕业于伦敦政治经济学院，并在哥伦比亚大学获得两个硕士学位。她曾在乌干达、斯里兰卡和古巴做过报道。
Her death, so close to home, and in a region known for its prosperity and safety, has focused attention on the dangers facing female journalists, especially those who work on a freelance basis.
沃尔死于一个以繁荣和安全著称的地区，离她的家乡很近。这把公众的注意力集中到了女记者，尤其是那些自由撰稿人所面临的危险上。
Mr. Madsen was known as a temperamental and eccentric inventor who, starting in adolescence, built rockets and submarines, including the UC3 Nautilus, the vessel on which Ms. Wall died.
马德森是一位以性情多变且古怪著称的发明家。从青少年时期就开始制作火箭和潜艇，其中包括UC3鹦鹉螺号(UC3 Nautilus)潜艇，沃尔就在这里丧生。
In court on Tuesday, Mr. Madsen confirmed that Ms. Wall had first contacted him to talk about rockets, but became intrigued by his submarines and wanted to go along for a ride. It was not clear when they first communicated, but they met for the first time on Aug. 10.
周二在法庭上，马德森确认，沃尔最早联系他是想谈论火箭，但随后对他的潜艇产生了兴趣，想坐上去兜一圈。目前尚不清楚他们第一次联系的时间，但首次见面是在8月10日。
Mr. Madsen had brought numerous visitors on underwater trips — 300, he estimated, both individuals and small groups. When the prosecutor, Jakob Buch-Jepsen, asked if he had ever had sex on the submarine at sea, Mr. Madsen said he had, once, with a mistress.
马德森带过许多访客下水旅行——300个，他估计，个人和组团的都有。当检察官雅克布·布赫·杰普森(Jakob Buch-Jepsen)问他是否曾在出海时在潜艇上发生过性行为时，马德森说有过，有一次，是和一名情妇。
Mr. Buch-Jepsen asked about Mr. Madsen’s involvement in the sadism-and-masochism community. He said that he had once had consensual sex with a woman who held her breath during intercourse — in a simulation of choking — but that he had not hurt her.
布赫·杰普森询问马德森在虐恋社群中的参与情况。他说，她曾与一位女性在双方同意的情况下发生性行为。为了模拟窒息，她在性交过程中摈住了呼吸，但他没有伤害她。
As to the evening of Aug. 10, Mr. Madsen offered this account: He navigated the submarine out of the depths of the harbor and toward the surface of the waters, which were calm that evening. Then, he said, he climbed through the hatch, which weighs about 150 pounds, and was holding it open for Ms. Wall to follow him onto the bridge of the submarine.
至于8月10日的晚上，马德森描述道：夜很静，他驾驶着潜艇，从海港深处开向水域表面。然后，他从重约150磅的舱门爬出，开着舱门让沃尔跟他通过架桥进入潜艇。
The surface was slippery, by his account, and he lost hold of the hatch, which struck Ms. Wall in the head. He heard her body fall to the floor of the submarine as the door slammed. He went down and checked on her pulse, and found none. He thought she had fractured her skull.
根据他的描述，当时地面很滑，他失去了对舱门的控制，舱门卡住了沃尔的头部。当门砰地一声地关上时，他听到她的身体落到潜艇的地上。他下去检查她的脉搏，但已没有了迹象。他认为她摔裂了颅骨。
Believing his career was over, and out of fear and desperation, Mr. Madsen said, he decided to bury the body at sea. “Sinking the Nautilus is not a suitable ending for Kim, so I removed the body and did a funeral at sea, like it’s been done at sea for hundreds of years,” he said.
他觉得自己的职业生涯已经毁了，出于恐惧和绝望，他决定将尸体海葬。马德森说，“跟随鹦鹉螺号沉落对于沃尔来说不是恰当的结局。所以我按照海上数百年来的传统做法，搬走了她的尸体，为她海葬。
Mr. Madsen found a rope, he said, and tied it to Ms. Wall’s legs, to pull her out through the hatch, in the process tearing off her pantyhose and her shoes. Asked to account for why her underwear and other clothing were missing, he had no explanation.
马德森说，他找到一根绳子，把沃尔的腿绑起来，将她拖出舱口。在此过程中扯掉了她的连裤袜和鞋子。当被问到为何沃尔的内衣和其他衣服都不见了时，马德森没有给出解释。
Mr. Madsen said he had used a nylon strap to secure pieces of iron pipe to the body, and then dumped it overboard. Then he continued his journey, intending to steer the vessel south, toward the Baltic Sea, and to kill himself, he said.
他说，他用了一条尼龙绑带将尸体固定在铁管上，接着将其扔出船外。之后，他继续自己的旅程，打算一路向南前往波罗的海，然后自尽。
He did not explain why he had not carried out that plan.
他没有解释为什么后来没有实施这个计划。
Early the following morning, Aug. 11, Mr. Madsen’s submarine returned to the surface of the bay. As rescuers approached, he said, he opened a valve to let in water — effectively sabotaging his invention — and then jumped into the water to swim to safety.
次日清晨，也就是8月11日，马德森的潜艇回到了海湾表面。他说，当救援人员靠近时，他打开阀门让水流了进来——这等于是蓄意破坏了他一手打造的潜艇——然后跳入水中，游向安全水域。
“Whether I sank her or returned her to port would make no difference for my situation: I’m done as ‘Rocket’ Madsen,” he said, using one of his nicknames. (He noted that he had sunk a previous submarine, Freya, near Flakfortet, an old maritime fortress near Copenhagen.)
“对我来说，是把她沉入海底还是带回港口，没有什么分别。‘火箭马德森’已经完了，”他说。“火箭马德森”是他的绰号。（他说他以前曾在弗拉克伏特[Flakfortet]附近沉没另一艘潜艇浮莱亚号[Freya]。弗拉克伏特是哥本哈根附近一座古老的海上堡垒。）
When Mr. Buch-Jepsen asked why he had lied to the police, Mr. Madsen answered: “I wanted to see my wife and the three cats. I wanted to see them before all this was going to happen. I had no doubt that everything would come to light. I just wanted five minutes to say goodbye to my wife.”
当布赫·杰普森问他为什么对警察撒谎时，马德森回答说，“我想见我的妻子和我的三只猫。我想在一切来临之前见到他们。我毫不怀疑一切都将真相大白。我只想要五分钟来和我的妻子道别。”
His lawyer, Betina Hald Engmark, asked why he didn’t call for help.
他的律师贝蒂娜·霍德·英格玛克(Betina Hald Engmark)问他为什么没有打电话求助。
“I realized there was nothing left of the world I was living in,” he replied. “I was in a suicidal psychosis, and I had no more plans in this world other than to sink the Nautilus.”
“我意识到，在我的世界里，什么都没了，”他回复道。“我处于一种自杀性的神经错乱中。除了沉没鹦鹉号，我在这个世界上没有别的计划了。”
Journalists filled most of the 25 or so seats in the courtroom. During a break in the testimony, Mr. Madsen turned to a woman in one of the seats and smiled at her; she did not appear to respond. He was wearing a military-style camouflage outfit, similar to the one he wore when he was arrested.
法庭内有约25个座位，几乎全被记者坐满了。休庭时，马德森转向座位上的一位女士，并对她微笑；她似乎没有什么反应。马德森身穿军队风格的迷彩装，与他被捕时穿的衣服类似。
The police have interviewed numerous witnesses and are still conducting forensic tests on evidence, including strands of hair, underwear and blood, found at the scene.
警察询问了多位目击者，并仍在对现场发现的证据进行法医学检测，包括几缕头发，内衣和血迹。
The judge ordered a psychiatric examination of Mr. Madsen, who had refused to submit to one. She also approved a search of his computer.
法官下令对马德森进行精神检查，但他拒绝接受。法官还批准对马德森的电脑进行搜查。
Both Mr. Madsen’s and Ms. Wall’s cellphones are missing. He testified that he threw his overboard, but that he did not know where hers was.
马德森和沃尔两人的手机都不见了。马德森作证称将自己的手机扔进了海里，但不清楚沃尔的在哪里。