Marius the reticulated giraffe died at the Copenhagen Zoo on Sunday. He was 2 years old.
周日，名叫马里乌斯(Marius)的网纹长颈鹿死在了哥本哈根动物园(Copenhagen Zoo)里。死时两岁大。
The cause of death was a shotgun blast, and after a public autopsy, the animal, who was 11 feet 6 inches, was fed to the zoo’s lions and other big cats.
这头高11英尺6英寸（约3.4米）的动物是被猎枪打死的，尸体公开解剖后，被喂给了动物园里的狮子和其他大型猫科动物。
Zoo administrators said they decided to put down Marius, who was in good health, because his genes were already well represented among the captive giraffe population in European zoos. But that explanation failed to satisfy animal rights activists who had mounted a furious last-minute campaign to save him.
动物园管理人员说，他们决定处死健康状况良好的马里乌斯，是因为欧洲各地动物园圈养的长颈鹿种群已充分地涵盖了它的基因。不过，这个解释未能令动物维权人士满意，他们曾在最后一刻发起义愤填膺的行动，试图拯救它。
Besides nearly 30,000 online signatures from those who did not want Marius put down, Copenhagen Zoo officials received death threats after they turned down adoption offers from other zoos, as well as a bid of 500,000 euros, the equivalent of $681,000, from an individual who was willing to take Marius in.
哥本哈根动物园的管理人员拒绝了其他动物园的领养请求，还拒绝了某个愿意收养马里乌斯的个人开出的50万欧元（约合413万元人民币）报价。此后，希望拯救马里乌斯的人征集了近3万个网络签名，动物园的管理人员还接到了死亡威胁。
One group, Animal Rights Sweden, urged people to stop visiting zoos as a protest, The Associated Press reported. “It is no secret that animals are killed when there is no longer space, or if the animals don’t have genes that are interesting enough,” the organization said in a statement.
据美联社(Associated Press)报道，一家名为瑞典动物权利(Animal Rights Sweden)的组织敦促人们停止参观动物园，以此表示抗议。该组织在一份声明中说，“动物园没有地方，或者动物不具备足够诱人的基因时，动物就会被杀死，这件事情并不是什么秘密。”
Marius was born in captivity at the Copenhagen Zoo, where there are seven reticulated giraffes, a species that is native to Africa and is not endangered but faces threats from habitat loss and hunting.
马里乌斯诞生在哥本哈根动物园的鹿圈，那里有七头网纹长颈鹿。这个物种原产于非洲，虽然没有濒临灭绝，但却面临着栖息地减少和狩猎的威胁。
“A giraffe is not a pet; it’s not like a dog or cat that becomes part of the family,” Bengt Holst, the zoo’s scientific director, said by telephone. “It is a wild animal.”
动物园的科学主管本特·霍尔斯特(Bengt Holst)在电话里说，“长颈鹿不是宠物，不像猫狗那样可以成为家庭成员。它是一种野生动物。”
Mr. Holst said he had decided against sending Marius to another zoo because that would have opened the door to inbreeding, and potentially removed a place for a giraffe whose genetic makeup was more valuable in terms of future offspring in captive breeding programs. Mr. Holst seemed caught off guard by the public protest, calling it “totally out of proportion.”
霍尔斯特称，他之所以决定不把马里乌斯送到其他动物园，是因为那样会开启近亲繁殖的大门，还可能占据其他某头长颈鹿的位置，而在人工繁育计划中，后者的基因构成对子孙后代的价值更大。霍尔斯特似乎对公众的抗议始料未及，称其“完全是小题大做”。
“People said, ‘If you kill the giraffe, I’ll kill you,’ ” he said. “It’s insane.”
“人们说‘你要是敢杀这头长颈鹿，我就杀了你，’”他说，“简直是疯了。”
“We don’t do it to be cruel; we do it to ensure a healthy population,” he added. “You have to breed them to make sure the population is renewed.”
“我们这么做不是残忍，是为了确保种群健康，”他补充说，“我们繁育它们，必须以确保种群更新为前提。”
As for individual offers, Mr. Holst said giraffes were social animals and could not be kept in isolation.
至于个人提出的领养请求，霍尔斯特称长颈鹿是群居动物，不能单独饲养。
Giraffes are allowed to breed in captivity since it is part of their natural behavior in the wild, Mr. Holst said, even though breeding can produce what he called “a surplus animal.”
霍尔斯特说，尽管人工繁育可能会产生“多余动物”，但他们还是让长颈鹿在圈养状态下繁育，因为这属于它们在野外的自然行为。
“As long as they are with us, we want them to have a good life, with as much natural behavior as possible,” he said.
“只要它们和我们待在一起，我们就希望它们能过得好，行为尽可能自然，”他说。
Marius was not full grown, Mr. Holst said. He could have grown another three feet or so.
霍尔斯特说，马里乌斯尚未完全发育。它本来还可以再长大约三英尺（约合0.9米）。
A shotgun rather than an injection was used to end the giraffe’s life so his meat would be safe to eat for the zoo’s predator animals. And following an autopsy that was open to visitors as an educational opportunity, Marius’s remains were fed to the zoo’s lions.
结束这头长颈鹿生命的是猎枪而非药物注射，这样一来，动物园里的食肉动物就可以放心地吃它的肉了。动物园举行了一次向游客开放的教学性尸体解剖，之后就把马里乌斯的遗骸喂给了动物园里的狮子。
“We still have meat for lions, tigers and leopards,” Mr. Holst said. “It’s just meat that can be fed to every animal.”
“我们还有肉可以喂狮子、老虎和豹，”霍尔斯特说，“所有动物都可以吃它的肉。”