COPENHAGEN — The inventor Peter Madsen is accused by the Danish authorities of binding and abusing the journalist Kim Wall on board his submarine before killing her, according to an indictment released in full on Tuesday.
哥本哈根——周二全文公开的起诉书显示，丹麦当局指控发明家彼得·马德森(Peter Madsen)对登上他的潜艇的记者金·沃尔(Kim Wall)实施捆绑、虐待并将其杀害。
Mr. Madsen has given shifting explanations for what happened to Ms. Wall, 30, a prolific Swedish journalist who disappeared after boarding the vessel on Aug. 10 in Copenhagen to interview him, and whose torso was found on a beach south of the city on Aug. 21.
为采访马德森，现年30岁、有过众多作品的瑞典记者金·沃尔于8月10日在哥本哈根登上了潜艇，随后不见踪影，8月21日，她的尸体在哥本哈根南部的海滩上被发现。马德森对此事的解释有多个版本。
Most recently, he admitted to dismembering her body, but he said that she had died in an accident.
最近，他承认自己肢解了她的尸体，但他表示沃尔是在一场事故中死亡的。
In the indictment, however, prosecutors say he brought a “saw, sharpened screwdrivers, straps, strips and pipes” to the submarine before the trip, arguing that these were part of a plan to kill Ms. Wall. He “abused her by hitting her, stabbed and cut her and he killed her after which he dismembered her body,” the indictment said.
然而，在起诉书中，检方称他在启程之前曾把“锯子、尖锐的螺丝刀、绑带、扎带和管子”带入潜艇，说明这都是杀害沃尔的计划的一部分。他“通过击打、捅刺和划割对她实施虐待，并在将其杀害后肢解了她的尸体，”起诉书写道。
The straps and pipes were tied to her torso and limbs to weight them down after he threw them overboard. The police investigation has not been able to establish the exact cause of death, but say that she was either strangled or had her throat cut.
她的躯体和四肢都被捆上了绑带和管子，这样在被扔入海中后可以下沉。警方的调查未能确定死亡的确切原因，但显示她是被勒死或被割喉。
The police said earlier that Ms. Wall had been stabbed repeatedly, including in her genitals, but had not previously said they believed that to have happened before her death.
警方早前曾说过沃尔身上有多处刺伤，生殖器内也被刺伤，但此前并未表示他们认为这发生在死亡之前。
Mr. Madsen, 47, was formally charged last week with premeditated killing, a charge equivalent to murder; sexual assault; and improper handling of a body.
上周，47岁的马德森以同于谋杀的故意杀人罪、性侵犯罪、非法处理尸体罪被正式起诉。
The indictment published on Tuesday also says he deliberately sank his submarine, the Nautilus NC3, and it accuses him of endangering lives by forcing two vessels, a cargo ship and a cruise ship, to take evasive action because of the way he had navigated in the Oresund, the strait between Denmark and Sweden. The submarine was later found drifting in Koge Bay.
周二公开的这份起诉书还称他故意使自己的UC3鹦鹉螺号(Nautilus NC3)潜艇沉没，并且由于他驾驶潜艇的方式，在丹麦和瑞典之间的厄勒海峡中迫使两艘船只——一艘货船、一艘邮轮——采取规避动作，起诉书还指控马德森危害了他人生命安全。这艘潜艇随后被发现漂浮在克厄湾附近。
Mr. Madsen was rescued and brought to shore near Copenhagen on Aug. 11. He was arrested shortly afterward and has since been in police custody.
8月11日，马德森获救并被带往哥本哈根附近海岸。随后不久即被逮捕，自此一直被警方扣押。
At one point, he said Ms. Wall had been killed by a blow to the head from a submarine hatch. When divers eventually recovered her head and limbs in plastic bags, however, no such injury was found.
他一度表示沃尔是被潜艇的舱口撞击致死。但当潜水员最终寻回她被装在塑料袋中的头和四肢后，并没有发现这样的损伤。
“My client read the indictment, and we’re both puzzled,” Betina Hald Engmark, Mr. Madsen’s lawyer, said on Tuesday. “It’s not quite what we expected, but we hope everything will come to light when the trial begins. The case should be prosecuted in court and not in the press. Some members of the press seem to forget that the prosecution hasn’t proved their case yet,” she said, declining to comment further.
“我的委托人读了这份起诉书，我们都感到困惑，”马德森的律师贝蒂娜·霍德·英格玛克(Betina Hald Engmark)周二表示。“这和我们期望的不太一样，但我们希望在审判开始后能真相大白。这个案子应该在法庭受审，而不是在媒体中。一些媒体似乎忘了，检方尚未证明其主张，”她说，但她拒绝进一步置评。
The trial by jury is scheduled to start in Copenhagen on March 8. The verdict is expected on April 25.
由陪审团进行的审判计划于3月8日在哥本哈根举行。预计将于4月25日给出裁决。
Ms. Wall was a successful writer and reporter who had work published internationally, including in The New York Times. A memorial fund to support a young female journalist is being raised in her name.
沃尔是一个在国际范围内发表过作品的成功作家、记者，也曾在《纽约时报》发表过作品。一个用来支持年轻女性记者的纪念基金正以她的名义进行募捐。