Mads Refslund, a chef known for his almost manic dedication to natural food, could not have been farther away — physically or spiritually — from the Danish forests and beaches where he first learned to forage for ingredients.
厨师马斯·雷夫斯隆(Mads Refslund)以对天然食材近乎疯狂的追求而闻名。当初，他是在丹麦的森林和海滩学会如何搜寻食材的，不过此刻，他在身心上都与丹麦相距遥远。
A slight man in a chef’s jacket, gray jeans and sneakers, he waited beside a stage at the Ritz-Carlton Hong Kong. As guests clinked Champagne flutes at the opening of a food and wine festival, Mr. Refslund asked for tips on foraging in one of the world’s most densely populated cities.
身形瘦小的他穿着厨师上装、灰色牛仔裤和运动鞋，等候在香港丽思卡尔顿酒店(Ritz-Carlton Hong Kong)的舞台旁边。参加美食与美酒节开幕式的宾客觥筹交作之际，雷夫斯隆四处请教，询问如何在这座世界上人口密度最大的城市之一采集食材。
“I'm looking for anything that you can eat — trees, leaves,” he said.
“我在找任何可以吃的东西，树啊，叶子啊，”他说。
When it was Mr. Refslund’s turn to address the audience, he tried to explain the philosophy that defined Noma, the Danish eatery that he co-founded in 2003 and that in 2010 knocked El Bulli in Spain off its throne as the world’s most critically acclaimed restaurant. More recently, Mr. Refslund has brought his cuisine to Acme in New York.
轮到雷夫斯隆向观众发表演讲的时候，他努力解释自己的Noma餐厅所持的理念。这家丹麦餐厅是他2003年与他人共同开办的，2010年，它取代了西班牙的El Bulli餐厅，坐上世界上最受食评家称赞的餐厅的宝座。不久前，雷夫斯隆把他的菜式带到了纽约的Acme餐厅。
“Nordic cuisine is not about Nordic things, but about a way of thinking,” Mr. Refslund said, as he discussed sustainability and local products.
谈到可持续性和本地产品，雷夫斯隆说，“北欧菜不是用北欧的东西，而是一种思维方式。”
Several days later, he emerged from the Ritz-Carlton’s air-conditioned confines for the first day that he would be free to forage. “I’ve been here almost a week, and I’ve barely been out of the hotel,” he said.
几天后，他第一次从丽思卡尔顿的空调室内环境里解脱出来，首次有一天时间可以自由采集食材。“我来了这里快一周了，可几乎没出过酒店大门，”他说。
A bellboy in a top hat and white gloves ushered him, his New York girlfriend and his Danish publicist into a black van that deposited them at the gritty Graham Street Market.
戴着大礼帽和白手套的行李员领着雷夫斯隆、他的纽约女朋友，以及丹麦的公关进入一辆黑色房车，这辆车把他们送到原汁原味的嘉咸街市集。
He was joined by Peter Find, the Ritz-Carlton’s hulking German executive chef, who has worked in Asia and the Middle East since the mid-1990s and who regularly scours local markets and streetside stalls.
与他们同行的是丽思卡尔顿行政总厨、身材高大的德国人彼得·芬(Peter Find)。自上世纪90年代中期起，芬一直在亚洲和中东工作，他常常探访当地的市集和街边摊。
Mr. Refslund was finally in his element. Squinting into the subtropical sun, he happily took photos of a fishmonger and a pig butcher, both hacking into slabs of squirting, bloody flesh.
雷夫斯隆终于自在起来。在亚热带的阳光下，他眯着眼，欢快地拍下鱼贩和猪肉贩的照片，这两个小商贩都在砍着大块的生肉，血水四溅。
“In Europe, we have all this special equipment. We have fish knives,” he said. “Here, absolutely everything is done with one cleaver.”
“在欧洲，我们有各种专用器械。我们有鱼刀。但在这里，每样东西绝对都是用一把菜刀搞定的，”他说。
“I saw meat hanging outside in the heat,” he said. “An American would look at that and think of bacteria, but I think people don’t get sick if they’re used to it. We’ve gotten totally clean, too clean.”
“我看到大热天肉就挂在户外，”他说，“美国人看到了会想到细菌，不过我觉得，如果人们习惯了，就不会得病。我们已习惯于彻底洁净，太干净了。”
He picked green papaya flower buds, a large yellow cucumber, preserved mustard roots and a cluster of longan, a lycheelike fruit whose name means “dragon eyes.”
他挑了一些青木瓜花蕾、一根大黄瓜、一些腌芥菜，以及一把龙眼，龙眼看起来像荔枝，名字意为“龙的眼睛”。
He poked at snails, crabs and local “flower shrimp” at the Yiu Fat fish stall.
他在耀发海鲜摊按了按蜗牛、螃蟹和当地的“花虾”。
At the Wai Kee Congee Shop, which specializes in congee, a rice porridge, and other blue-collar breakfasts, he coveted the machine used to make cheung fun, paper-thin layers of rice pasta.
在以米粥等蓝领早餐为特色的威记粥店，他对制作肠粉的机器垂涎不已。肠粉由多层米粉制成，每一层和纸一样薄。
Mr. Refslund took a piece of fried dough wrapped in cheung fun and dipped it in fish congee. “Starch in starch served with starch. I don’t know how this would play in New York,” he said as he randomly added sauces — plum, soy, chili. “I have to add a lot of chili.”
雷夫斯隆拿起一块肠粉包裹的油条，在鱼片粥中蘸了蘸。“淀粉包淀粉，再配淀粉。我不知道这在纽约会不会受欢迎，”他一边说，一边随意地加上梅子酱、酱油和辣椒酱。“我必须加很多辣椒”。
Back in the market, he passed on the congealed pig’s blood, stinky tofu and salted duck eggs packed in charcoal. He returned a durian when the hotel publicist reminded him that the fruit was banned from the premises because of its foul odor. He balked at the shark’s fins, criticizing the inhumane way they are harvested. And he shook his head when he heard that open-air food stalls were falling victim to redevelopment across the city.
回到市集，他走过售卖猪血块、臭豆腐和裹在炭里的咸鸭蛋的摊位。他拿起一个榴莲，但酒店公关提醒他，这种水果气味难闻，不能带入酒店，于是他又放了下来。他不愿选用鱼翅，批评它们的采集方式不人道。当他听说露天食摊接二连三地成为香港各处重建项目的牺牲品时，他摇了摇头。
“In this case, New York is far ahead of Hong Kong,” he said. “New York is getting into organic foods, farmers’ markets, foraging. Why go to a supermarket and buy a cucumber when you can go to a farmers’ market, or a beautiful field?”
“在这个问题上，纽约远远走在了香港的前面，”他说。“纽约正着迷于有机食品、农贸市场和搜寻食材。如果可以去农贸市场或美丽的田野里获得黄瓜，为什么要去超市买呢？”
He said it took him two years to get used to life in the New York borough of Manhattan. “I love it, but it’s hard. I’m used to nature,” he said. “In Denmark, nature is outside your door — 10 minutes on a bike and you’re at the beach or in a forest.”
雷夫斯隆说，自己花了两年时间才适应了纽约曼哈顿区的生活。“我热爱那里的生活，不过很艰难。我习惯大自然。在丹麦，大自然就在门前，骑车10分钟就能到达海滩或森林。”
He has found some solace in New York at the Union Square Greenmarket, where he has befriended local farmers. Now he is sourcing wild ingredients from the New Jersey-Pennsylvania border, up through the Hudson Valley and into New England. “New England is a little similar to Denmark,” he said.
他在纽约的联合广场绿色市集(Union Square Greenmarket)找到了些许安慰，与那里的一些当地农夫成为朋友。现在，他在新泽西和宾夕法尼亚的州界寻觅野生食材，沿着哈德逊谷一直到新英格兰。“新英格兰有点像丹麦，”他说。
He does it with the help of two foragers, including Tama Matsuoka Wong, who has written field guides and cookbooks based on wild ingredients.
他有两名搜寻者帮忙，其中一名是黄松岳球（Tama Matsuoka Wong，音译），她写过一些田野指南和基于野生食材的烹调书。
Ms. Matsuoka Wong, who lived in Hong Kong for 12 years, had warned Mr. Refslund about the hazards of foraging here.
黄女士曾在香港生活12年，她警告过雷夫斯隆，在这里找到的食材有些是有害的。
“Wild breathtaking landscapes are amazingly accessible to the Hong Kong people,” she wrote by e-mail from New Jersey, where she forages on her own 28 acres, or 11 hectares, of land. “But of course there are a lot of poisonous plants in a climate like Hong Kong.”
“香港人所能接触到的天然美景令人惊叹，”她从新泽西家中发来的电子邮件这样说。但是，像香港这样的气候，当然会有很多有毒植物。”在新泽西，她会在自己家11公顷的地里采集食材。
Mr. Refslund said his approach toward cuisine was based on a sense of limits and restraint.
雷夫斯隆说，他的美食理念基于约束和受限的感觉。
“We have such long winters in Denmark, we have to learn to salt, ferment and age,” he said. “I don’t use strawberries in the wintertime. In winter, I use wood — bark from the oak tree, fermented birch.”
“丹麦的冬天很长，我们必须学会腌制、发酵和陈放，”他说。“冬天时我不会用草莓。 我会用木料——橡树的树皮，发酵的桦条。”
“When you’re limited, you start to create,” he added.
“当你受到约束的时候，你就会开始创造，”他补充说。
That was certainly the case in Hong Kong.
香港肯定属于这种情况。
After the market, Mr. Refslund took a ferry to Cheung Chau, a car-free island. He walked up to two fishermen in a scene that looked beautiful from a distance — all blue water and sky — but smelled terrible up close because of the cheap diesel used by local fishing vessels.
离开市集以后，雷夫斯隆搭乘渡船去了无车的长洲岛。他远远看见两名渔夫，他们的背后是碧水蓝天的美丽景色，但是当他向他们走近时，却闻到一股难闻的气味，这来自当地渔船使用的廉价柴油。
“It makes for a nice picture,” the publicist said.
“这里看上去很美，”他的公关说。
“I don’t care about the picture,” Mr. Refslund said. “That water is disgusting.”
“我不在乎景色如何，”雷夫斯隆说，“那水令人作呕。”
Few in Cheung Chau village appeared to know much about foraging, so Mr. Refslund made his way up to a hiking path, where he met an elderly woman willing to give him tips. He returned — red-faced and sweating — with a smattering of flowers, herbs, green figs, dried pods and moss. He seemed particularly happy about toothwort, a flowering plant whose root has a horseradishlike bite.
长洲岛的村子里似乎没人知道采集食材，于是雷夫斯隆开始沿着山路走，路上遇见一位老妇人愿意指点他。他返回时脸色通红、满头大汗，拿着一把花、药草、绿色无花果、干豆荚和苔藓。他看起来对石芥花特别满意，这是一种开花植物，它的根有着辣根的刺激口味。
When the fishing boats returned from the relatively cleaner waters of the South China Sea, he bought a bag of small fish and carried them, still flopping, to the open-air Hoi Fat Seafood Restaurant, which charged a few dollars to flash-fry them in garlic and chili. The waitress set down cold Tsingtao beers, tiny clams sauteed with fermented black beans, spicy calamari and whole prawns, which he and his publicist ate, shells and all.
当渔船从相对更清洁的南海水域返航后，雷夫斯隆买了一袋小鱼，然后带着仍在翻腾的鱼去了露天的海发海鲜餐厅（Hoi Fat Seafood Restaurant，音译），付几元钱将这些鱼用蒜和辣椒爆炒。服务员端上冰凉的青岛啤酒，用豆豉炒的小蛤蜊、辣乌贼鱼和大虾，他和他的公关把大虾吃得一点儿不剩，连虾壳都没留下。
Back at the hotel, Mr. Refslund threw a chef’s jacket over his hiking shorts and spread out his findings. He ruminated over the green figs and set them aside.
回到丽思卡尔顿酒店，雷夫斯隆在登山短裤外套上厨师制服，将他找到的食材摊开。他对着绿色无花果斟酌了一番，然后把它们放到一边。
“I have no idea if they are poisonous,” he said.
“我不知道它们是不是有毒，”他说。
He declared the yellow cucumber slightly stringy and cut it into rounds. On top he placed thinly sliced raw abalone, then piled on emerald seeds and bright orange blossoms.
他宣告黄瓜有点儿软蔫，然后将它们横刀切块。在上面摆上切成细片的生鲍鱼，然后撒上翡翠绿的种子和明亮的橙色干花。
He crisped tiny zebra fish he had bought on the island and left one hanging from his lower lip, as a farmer might a stalk of grass. He arranged the rest as if they were swimming through an ocean of herbs and greens.
他将从岛上买来的斑马鱼做得酥脆，并将其中一条挂在下唇，就好像农民嚼草叶那样。他把剩下的鱼摆盘，让它们看起来就像是在一片药草和青草的海洋里游动。
For a final touch, he spooned on powdered dry ice, which sent up wispy white plumes and turned the plate into a miniature Nordic landscape.
最后，他撒上一勺干冰粉，整盘菜瞬时散发出一缕缕白烟，变成一幅微型的北欧风景画。