COPENHAGEN — Prince Henrik of Denmark has been married to the country’s queen for 50 years, and he has been carrying a grudge the whole time. Now, in an act of protest, he says he no longer wishes to be buried by her side, the Royal Danish House announced on Thursday.
哥本哈根——丹麦的亨里克亲王与该国女王的婚姻已经持续了50年，但他一直心有积怨。如今，为示抗议，他说自己不希望去世后葬在她身边，丹麦王室于周四宣布了这一消息。
Behind the decision lies decades of frustration over what he sees as unequal treatment.
这个决定背后是他几十年来的沮丧，他一直认为自己遭受了不平等的待遇。
Henrik, now 83, married Queen Margrethe II in 1967, and was later bestowed with the title of the queen’s prince consort. But what he really wanted was to be king — or in this case “king consort.”
现年83岁的亨里克于1967年与玛格丽特二世女王结婚，后来被赋予女王的配偶亲王称号。但他真正想要的是成为国王——或者在他的情况下来说，是“配偶国王”。
“It is no secret that the prince for many years has been unhappy with his role and the title he has been awarded in the Danish monarchy,” the Royal Danish House’s director of communications, Lene Balleby, told the tabloid newspaper BT. “This discontent has grown more and more in recent years.”
“多年来，亲王对丹麦君主政体授予他的角色和称号感到不满，这已经不是什么秘密，”丹麦王室的通讯联络主管莱内·巴列比(Lene Balleby)告诉小报《BT》。“近年来，他的不满情绪越来越多。”
“For the prince, the decision not to buried beside the queen is the natural consequence of not having been treated equally to his spouse — by not having the title and role he has desired,” Ms. Balleby added.
“对于亲王来说，做出不埋葬在女王身边的决定是很自然的，因为他没有得到身为配偶的平等待遇——没有得到他所期望的头衔和角色，”巴列比补充道。
The prince has not announced where he would like to be buried instead.
亲王尚未宣布自己希望被埋葬的地点。
Queen Margrethe II, 77, serves as Denmark’s head of state and is responsible for signing all laws passed by Parliament. But the country’s legislative powers have been in the hands of elected governments since 1849.
现年77岁的玛格丽特女王二世是丹麦国家元首，负责签署议会通过的所有法律。但是自从1849年以来，该国的立法权一直掌握在民选政府手中。
Henrik’s complaints about his title and position have increased in recent years, but he also made his grievance known publicly more than three decades ago when he complained about not receiving his own annual salary.
近年来，亨里克对自己的头衔和位置的抱怨有所增加，但在30多年前，他也曾公开发过牢骚，抱怨没有收到年薪。
“The first hint came around his 50th birthday when he said on TV he found it difficult to ask his wife for pocket money for cigarettes,” said Stephanie Surrugue, a journalist and author of a biography of the prince, titled “Loner.”
“第一个迹象是他50岁生日时在电视上说的话，他说很难启齿向妻子讨要买烟的零花钱，”亲王的传记《孤独者》(Loner)的作者、记者史蒂芬妮·苏拉格(Stephanie Surrugue)说。
He eventually did receive a salary and staff, but he never got the title he wanted.
他最终得到了一份工资和一组工作人员，但他从来没有得到他想要的头衔。
The Danish court’s reasoning is that the practice is in line with that of other European royal families, but that has not mollified Henrik.
丹麦王室的理由是，这种做法与其他欧洲王室的做法是一致的，但这种说法没有安抚住亨里克。
“He has said he loves his wife, but has difficulties with the queen as an institution,” Ms. Surrugue said. His ambition is not to be crowned regent, she said, but in many ways “he doesn’t feel treated as part of the ruling couple.”
苏拉格说，“他说过他爱妻子，但是和身为国体一部分的女王相处很难。”她还表示，他的夙愿并不是成为加冕的摄政王，但是在许多方面，“他感到自己没有被视为执政夫妇的一部分。”
“That’s what his protest is about,” she said.
“这就是他要抗议的东西，”她说。
The prince retired from most of his official duties last year and is rarely seen in public. Ms. Balleby said that the couple’s marriage and the queen’s work would not be affected by Henrik’s change of plans on his final resting place.
从去年开始，亲王已经从大部分的官方任务中退下来，很少在公共场合出现。巴列比说，亨里克对自己安葬地点安排的改变，不会影响二人的婚姻和女王的工作。
Denmark has long prided itself as a nation that has for centuries aimed for gender equality, but Henrik’s call for equal rights has often been mocked.
长期以来，丹麦一直以该国过去几个世纪中都在争取两性平等而自豪，但亨里克对平等权利的呼吁往往遭到嘲笑。
“It’s absolutely ridiculous,” Karen Sjoerup, an associate professor at Roskilde University who specializes in gender issues, told Politiken, a daily newspaper, of the prince’s demands for gender equality. “The court is not based on equality, but on the right of inheritance,” she said. “The law on gender equality does not apply to the royal court.”
“这是绝对可笑的，”罗斯基勒大学专门从事性别问题研究的克伦·舍约普(Kraren Sjoerup)副教授在接受日报《政治家》(Politiken)采访时这样评价亲王对性别平等的要求。“王室的决定不是基于平等，而是基于继承权，”她说。“关于两性平等的法律不适用于王室。”
When Henrik married Margrethe, who was then crown princess, he was a successful diplomat in the French foreign service and a member of the nobility.
同亨里克结婚时，玛格丽特已是女王储，亨里克则是一位成功的法国外交官，也是一名贵族。
In marrying Margrethe, he exchanged his career for an undefined role as the queen’s spouse — a first in the history of Denmark, where all previous monarchs had been male aside from a 14th-century queen, who was married to the king of Norway.
与玛格丽特结婚时，他的职业就成了角色并不分明的女王配偶——这是丹麦历史上第一次出现女王配偶，之前所有的君主都是男性，除了14世纪一位与挪威国王结婚的女王。
Without a title familiar to — and respected by — the public, Henrik has felt that his efforts to promote Denmark have gone unappreciated.
亨里克没有一个被公众所熟悉和尊重的头衔，他认为自己为宣传丹麦所做出的努力没有得到欣赏。
For at least seven years, Bjorn Norgaard, a sculptor, has been working on a glass sarcophagus carried by silver elephants that is designed to hold both the queen and the prince in Roskilde Cathedral after their deaths.
雕塑家比约恩·诺加德(Bjorn Norgaard)至少已经花了七年时间打造一尊由银质大象支撑着的玻璃棺。原本，待女王与亲王去世后，他们的遗体便会放在其中，在罗斯基勒大教堂下葬。
But now, the royal court said, when the time comes the queen will rest there alone.
但是现在王室称，当时间到了，女王会独自在这座玻璃棺中安眠。