COPENHAGEN — He was the rare middle-school science whiz to realize his dreams of becoming a celebrated inventor. He started building rockets as a teenager, and mused about making space tourism a reality. Fellow Danes admired his prowess in technology and design, though his temper at times seemed out of place in a society that treasures politeness.
哥本哈根——很多有科学天分的中学生都梦想着成为著名发明家，他是罕有的梦想成真的那一个。他十几岁的时候就开始制作火箭，还冥思苦想着要把太空旅行变成现实。他的丹麦同胞钦佩他在技术和设计方面的本领，尽管在一个推崇彬彬有礼的社会里，他的脾气有时会显得不合时宜。
Peter Madsen, 46, is at the center of a mystery that has shocked Scandinavia: the death of a Swedish journalist, Kim Wall, 30, who vanished after boarding Mr. Madsen’s self-designed 55-foot-long submarine on the evening of Aug. 10.
现年46岁的彼得·马德森(Peter Madsen)，处于一个震惊斯堪的纳维亚半岛的谜团的核心位置，卷入了瑞典记者金·沃尔(Kim Wall)的命案——8月10日傍晚，30岁的沃尔登上由马德森自行设计的55英尺长的潜艇，随后便消失了。
They were the only people on board the vessel, which sank.
当时，潜艇上只有他们俩。那艘潜艇后来宣告沉没。
After initially telling investigators that he had dropped off Ms. Wall at a remote section of the port of Copenhagen, Mr. Madsen — who has been charged with involuntary manslaughter — changed his story to say that Ms. Wall died while on board his ship and that he buried her body at sea.
马德森先是告诉调查人员，他在哥本哈根港的一个偏僻之处让沃尔下了船，又改口说沃尔死在他的船上，他对沃尔进行了海葬。马德森已被控过失杀人。
On Monday afternoon, on the edge of Amager Island, near where the submarine sank, a cyclist came across a grisly discovery: a woman’s torso, without its arms or legs or head. A postmortem examination started that evening, and the police said on Tuesday that DNA tests by Wednesday.
潜艇是在阿迈厄岛(Amager Island)附近沉没的。周一下午，一名骑行者在这座岛的边缘偶然有了令人毛骨悚然的发现：一个女人的躯干，没有四肢，也没有头。尸检于当天傍晚开始，警方周二表示，DNA测试结果到周三才能出来。
“The length of the torso doesn’t speak against it being Kim Wall, but we don’t know yet,” Jens Moller, a Copenhagen police spokesman, said in a video distributed on YouTube.
“从躯干的长度看，不排除这是金·沃尔，但我们还不能确定，”哥本哈根警方发言人延斯·莫勒(Jens Moller)在一则视频中表示。该视频被发在YouTube上。
Mr. Madsen’s longtime zest for science was accompanied by a strong confidence in his own abilities.
马德森对科学怀有长久的热情，与此相伴的是他对自身能力的强烈自信。
Born in 1971, one of four sons, he was raised by their father in Hong, a small town on the west coast of Zealand, Denmark’s largest island. He told a biographer that his father, a carpenter who built barracks and bunkers for the German occupiers during World War II, had been abusive.
马德森生于1971年，是家中的四个儿子之一，由父亲在丹麦第一大岛西兰岛(Zealand)西海岸一个名叫弘格(Hong)的小镇上养育成人。他告诉传记作者，父亲是一名在二战期间为德国占领军建造过兵营和地堡的木匠，对他有虐待行为。
When he was 15, according to a biography, he added an air of importance to his space dreams by using a made-up affiliation, the Danish Space Agency, when introducing himself to people whose help he sought to develop his rockets.
一本传记显示，15岁那年，他为了制作火箭而向人寻求帮助，做自我介绍时，他通过虚构出丹麦太空署(Danish Space Agency)这么一个单位，给自己的太空梦增添了一些重要性。
“At one point I’m talking for two hours with an engineer at the Navy’s Materials Command about high-concentration hydrogen peroxide, and getting so much information because he doesn’t get that I’m only 15,” Peter Madsen told the biographer Thomas Djursing, the author of “Rocket Madsen: Denmark’s Do-It-Yourself Astronaut.”
“有一回，我和海军装备司令部(Navy’s Materials Command)的一名工程师谈了两个小时的高浓度过氧化氢，得到了很多信息，因为他不知道我只有15岁，”彼得·马德森告诉传记作者托马斯·尤尔辛(Thomas Djursing)。后者著有《火箭马德森：自己动手的丹麦太空人》(Rocket Madsen: Denmark’s Do-It-Yourself Astronaut)。
During school breaks, Mr. Madsen told Mr. Djursing, he peppered chemistry and physics teachers with questions about rocket fluids, and after school he trawled the library for books on space travel and moon landings.
马德森告诉尤尔辛，他会在课间缠着化学和物理老师问火箭液体方面的问题，放学后他常常去图书馆搜罗太空旅行和登月方面的书籍。
His first rocket launch was an accident — the rocket landed on the grounds of a nearby machinery manufacturer. His second launch also failed, landing in a nursing home garden.
他的首次发射没能成功，火箭落在附近一家机械制造厂的院落里。第二次发射也失败了，火箭落进了一个养老院的花园。
But the third was a success, taking off from a patch of grass behind his school, when Mr. Madsen was 15. It rose at a stable rate to some 330 feet in the air before descending.
但第三次大功告成，发射地点是其学校后边的一片草地，当时他15岁。火箭以平稳的速度上升到距地面330英尺的高空以后，才开始向下落。
“I loved the idea that a fully armed rocket stood behind the school,” Mr. Madsen told his biographer. “The school day was my count down where I constantly looked at my watch thinking ‘T-minus-4 hours,’ ‘T-minus-3 hours,’ etc.”
“一枚装备齐全的火箭伫立在学校后边，我喜欢这个点子，”马德森告诉传记作者。“那天上学的时候我一直在倒计时，不停地看表，琢磨着‘距离发射还有4小时’、‘距离发射还有3小时’之类的。”
Mr. Madsen went to study engineering at a university, but he did not complete his degree.
马德森曾进入一所大学研读工程学，但没有完成学位课程的学习。
In time, he became something of a local celebrity loved for his ambitions and innovations; some admirers envisioned his taking on space giants like NASA or even the British billionaire Richard Branson, perhaps the best known promoter of space tourism.
随着时间的推移，他一定程度上在当地成了名人，人们喜欢他的雄心和创造力；按照一些仰慕者的设想，他堪与太空领域的一些巨头相抗衡，比如美国航空航天局(NASA)，乃至英国亿万富翁理查德·布兰森(Richard Branson)，后者或许是最知名的太空旅游推广者。
Volunteers and donors flocked to support Mr. Madsen, who in 2008 co-founded Copenhagen Suborbitals, an amateur space exploration company. But by the time the organization had its first successful launch from a platform in the Baltic Sea in 2011, Mr. Madsen had fallen out with his friends and colleagues and continued his work alone.
支持马德森的志愿者和捐赠者蜂拥而至，他在2008年与人共同创办哥本哈根轨道(Copenhagen Suborbitals)，一家非专业太空探索公司。但等到该公司于2011年在波罗的海的一个平台上首次进行成功的发射之际，马德森已经跟朋友及同事闹翻，又开始独自工作。
“Peter Madsen found simple solutions to big problems and became an inspiration even for professional rocket engineers all over the world,” said Mr. Djursing, the biographer.
“彼得·马德森找到了解决重大问题的简单方案，甚至让全世界的专业火箭工程师深受启发，”传记作者尤尔辛说。
But he also had a reputation as ornery and ill-tempered; Mr. Djursing described him as a “one-man army,” who alienated engineers because of his tendency to get frustrated and angry. However, no known indications that he was violent have been found.
但他也以难以相处和脾气差闻名；尤尔辛说他是“孤军奋战”，由于很容易就会感到失望或愤怒，他让工程师们避之唯恐不及。不过就目前所知，尚无迹象表明他有暴力倾向。
Mr. Madsen began launching submarines in 2002, and had taken visitors onto his third and latest submarine, the UC3 Nautilus, in the past; Ms. Wall had told her family that she was going to Denmark to interview Mr. Madsen.
马德森从2002年开始推出潜艇，他以前带人参观过自己的第三艘，也是最新一艘潜艇UC3鹦鹉螺号(UC3 Nautilus)；沃尔曾告诉家人，她要去丹麦采访马德森。
The two were seen leaving Refshaleoen, a site on Copenhagen harbor, around 7 p.m. on Aug. 10, a Thursday. Around midnight, the UC3 Nautilus was spotted by a merchant marine vessel, as it moved through the harbor in a clockwise direction.
有人看到他们俩在8月10日晚7点左右离开哥本哈根港的拉夫斯黑尔岛(Refshaleoe) ，那天是周四。午夜前后，一艘商船发现了UC3鹦鹉螺号，它正顺着顺时针方向在海港中行驶。
When Ms. Wall, who was from southern Sweden, across a small strait from Denmark, failed to come home that night, her boyfriend called the authorities, who began a search. Late the next morning, rescuers came across the Nautilus; Mr. Madsen jumped off and swam toward safety as the vessel sank to a level of about 22 feet. Police have said that the submarine was sunk intentionally, but have not said how or why.
沃尔来自与丹麦只隔着一道小海峡的瑞典南部，那天晚上她没能回家，当局在她男朋友打电话报警后展开搜寻。第二天早上晚些时候，救援人员发现了UC3鹦鹉螺号；马德森在潜艇沉入水下22英尺之际跳入海中，游向安全的所在。警方说潜艇是被故意弄沉的，但没说弄沉的原因或方式。
People who know Mr. Madsen have expressed shock. Mr. Djursing said in a phone interview that he felt “anger, confusion and powerlessness,” like “under a blanket of something absurd and very evil.”
认识马德森的人表达了震惊之情。尤尔辛接受电话采访时说，他感到“愤怒、困惑和无奈”，就像“被某种既荒谬又邪恶至极的东西笼罩着”。
On Monday, after the police revealed that Mr. Madsen had changed his story about the time he had spent with Ms. Wall, Jens Falkenberg, a fellow member of the amateur submarine building community, told the newspaper BT, “Peter is a colorful personality, but he’s in no way evil, and I don’t believe there’s anything violent in him.”
周一，在警方披露马德森就其与沃尔相处的时间改口的消息之后，和马德森同属一个业余潜艇制造社团的延斯·福克伯格(Jens Falkenberg)告诉小报《BT》，“彼得是一个多姿多彩的人物，但绝不邪恶，我不认为他有任何暴力倾向。”
“To me Peter is not a murderer,” Mr. Falkenberg said. “I can’t imagine Peter having killed her intentionally, but I can imagine an accident happening. The submarine is an ungainly place and you move around awkwardly. Perhaps she fell and broke her neck.”
“在我看来彼得不是谋杀者，”福克伯格说。“我无法想象彼得故意杀了她，但可以想见发生了意外。潜艇是个别别扭扭的地方，在里边走动会有些困难。或许她跌倒了，摔断了脖子。”
Deirdre King, a friend of 14 years, told the newspaper Ekstra Bladet that she couldn’t see Mr. Madsen as a killer. “I’ve been sailing with Nautilus and there are many places you can get hurt,” she said.
与马德森相识14年的老友戴尔德丽·金(Deirdre King)告诉《号外报》(Ekstra Bladet) ，她不觉得马德森是杀手。“我常乘鹦鹉螺号出海，那上面有很多容易弄伤人的地方，”她说。
Relatives and friends of Ms. Wall, a graduate of the London School of Economics and Columbia University’s Journalism School, have expressed grief. “She was beloved by her community,” the journalism school, where she received a master’s degree in 2013, said on Twitter. “She will be missed.”
沃尔毕业于伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)和哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)新闻学院(Journalism School)，她的亲友表达了悲痛之情。“她在自己的社群中深受喜爱，”哥大新闻学院发推称，“大家会怀念她”。沃尔于2013年在该学院获得硕士学位。