Last week, FX announced that it had picked up “Trust,” a new limited series from Danny Boyle, the acclaimed director of “Slumdog Millionaire” and “Steve Jobs.” The 10-episode season will be about the kidnapping of the oil fortune heir John Paul Getty III.
上周，福克斯电视网(FX)宣布，已预定新的有限集数剧集《信任》(Trust)，该剧由备受赞誉的导演丹尼·博伊尔(Danny Boyle)执导，他是《贫民窟的百万富翁》(Slumdog Millionaire)和《史蒂夫·乔布斯》(Steve Jobs)的导演。这一季共10集，讲述的是石油巨额财产继承人约翰·保罗·格蒂三世(John Paul Getty III)遭绑架的故事。
This is just the latest limited series in the FX lineup. The cable channel is now showing “American Crime Story,” about the O. J. Simpson trial, and it broadcasts other anthologies like “American Horror Story” and “Fargo,” which change characters, story lines and settings from season to season (the next season of “American Crime Story” will be about Hurricane Katrina).
这是福克斯电视网节目单上的最新有限集数剧集。该有线电视频道正在播出《美国犯罪故事》(American Crime Story)，它讲述的是O·J·辛普森(O. J. Simpson)案的审判，它还播放其他系列剧，比如《美国恐怖故事》(American Horror Story)和《冰血暴》(Fargo)，这些系列剧每一季的人物、故事情节和背景都不一样（下一季《美国犯罪故事》是关于卡特里娜飓风[Hurricane Katrina]）。
On ABC, the anthology show “American Crime” completed its second season on Wednesday night, and Fox already announced that it would bring back its anthology series “Scream Queens” for a second season.
美国广播公司(ABC)的系列剧《美国重案》(American Crime)于周三晚上播完了第二季。福克斯已经宣布，它将推出系列剧《尖叫女王》(Scream Queens)的第二季。
I recently spoke with FX’s chief executive, John Landgraf, and Ryan Murphy, an executive producer of “American Crime Story,” “American Horror Story” and “Scream Queens,” about why they think this form of television works and why we’re going to see many more limited series.
前不久，我采访了福克斯的首席执行官约翰·兰德格拉夫(John Landgraf)以及《美国罪案故事》、《美国恐怖故事》和《尖叫女王》的执行制片人赖恩·墨菲(Ryan Murphy)，问他们为什么认为这种形式的电视会受欢迎，以及为什么会有更多有限集数剧集。
Mr. Landgraf points back to television before “The Sopranos.”
兰德格拉夫提到了《黑道家族》(The Sopranos)之前的电视剧。
It was a time when the television business model dictated that producers needed to create 22 episodes a year. If the series had few continuing story lines, all the better, since that meant it would repeat better. And to get a series to syndication, it had to reach at least 100 episodes.
当时的电视业模式要求制作人们每年创作22集电视剧。这些电视剧如果没有连贯的故事线索就更好了，因为那意味着可以一直演下去。要想让一部电视剧在多个电视台同时播出，它必须至少有100集。
“What you were saying to artists was: Come up with the best show you can, given those requirements,” Mr. Landgraf said. “And that basically eliminated the potential existence of virtually every great show that’s been made since ‘The Sopranos.’ ”
“当时你跟编剧们说的是：根据这些要求，尽力想出最好的剧本，”兰德格拉夫说，“照那样做的话，《黑道家族》之后的所有优秀电视剧基本上就不可能出现了。”
“The Sopranos” had its premiere in 1999, and the golden age of television started in earnest. The show’s story lines were dark and developed over numerous episodes, and the series spawned a new type of business model for television.
《黑道家族》1999年首播，电视剧的黄金时代正式开始。该剧故事情节阴暗，随着无数剧集不断发展，它衍生出一种新型电视商业模式。
“But then that becomes its own orthodoxy,” Mr. Landgraf said. “Now, we make serialized shows. They have to be 13 episodes or 10 episodes a season. And if you don’t have at least five seasons, we can’t sell them. Six seasons is better. So now instead of making 22 episodes and 100 episodes, we’re trying to make 91 episodes over seven years. And, by the way, it should be dark, it should be serialized, it should have an antihero. Now you’re telling artists: Write the best show you can given these restrictions.”
“不过，后来这种模式成为正统，”兰德格拉夫说，“现在，我们制作系列电视剧。每一季必须有13集或10集。而且至少要有5季，否则卖不出去。6季更好。所以，现在我们不再是制作22集或100集，而是在7年时间里制作91集。而且，顺便说一句，它必须阴暗，必须有好几季，必须有一个非正统派主角。现在，我们对编剧们说：按照这些限制，写出最好的剧本。”
After Mr. Murphy pitched “American Horror Story” several years ago, Mr. Landgraf had a revelation.
7年前墨菲极力主张推出《美国恐怖故事》，兰德格拉夫从中获得启发。
“The innovation isn’t the 13-episode, seven-year show,” Mr. Landgraf said. “The innovation is fit the business model to the artist, not the artist to the business model.”
兰德格拉夫说：“创新之处不在于每季13集，持续7年，而在于让商业模式适应艺术家，而不是让艺术家适应商业模式。”
Mr. Murphy said that making contained, 10-episode seasons with different casts has significantly expanded the talent available to him. John Travolta stars on this season of “American Crime Story,” and Mr. Murphy got him to sign on because it wasn’t an exhaustive commitment.
墨菲说，每季选用不同的演员，用10集讲述一个完整的故事，极大扩展了可供他选择的演员的范围。这一季《美国罪案故事》由约翰·特拉沃尔塔(John Travolta)主演，墨菲能说服他签约是因为这样的承诺不会让人很有负担。
“You’re never going to get Jessica Lange or John Travolta or Kathy Bates to sign on the dotted line to give you seven years of their life doing the same character,” he said. “I don’t think that they’re interested in that. By doing these one-year talent deals, you’re allowing talent that wasn’t interested in television before to become part of it. Like Matthew McConaughey on ‘True Detective.’ ”
他说：“你永远不可能说服杰西卡·朗(Jessica Lange)、约翰·特拉沃尔塔或凯茜·贝茨(Kathy Bates)同意用7年时间演同一个角色。我觉得他们对那没兴趣。但如果只签一年，你能邀请那些之前对电视没兴趣的优秀演员参与进来。比如请马修·麦康纳(Matthew McConaughey)出演《真探》(True Detective)。”
There were 412 scripted series in all television last year, a record-breaker. This year, there might be even more. The number of shows — and the nickname for it, “peak TV” — set off a monthslong conversation in the industry about whether there was simply too much television.
去年，电视上共播出412集电视剧，打破了历史记录。今年可能更多。这么多的电视剧（这种情况被戏称为“电视巅峰”[peak TV]）让电视业开始反思电视剧是不是太多了，这场讨论持续了一个月之久。
Mr. Murphy says these types of series provide an antidote to that.
墨菲说，这种类型的电视剧为上述情况提供了解药。
“There is so much content out there and, for me, I don’t know that I have the time that I used to have to dedicate myself to slavish viewing of a seven-year show,” he said. “What I like about this is it’s 10 or 12 episodes and you’re off to another story. This story has a beginning, middle and end, and this form of storytelling more and more reflects the world we’re living in. We live in an A.D.D. world.”
“现在的电视剧太多了，我都不知道自己还能不能像过去那样有时间专心地追一部电视剧追7年，”他说，“我喜欢现在这种模式，是因为它只有10集或12集，然后你就去看其他故事了。这个故事有开头、中间部分和结尾，这种讲故事的方式更能反映我们生活的这个世界。我们生活在一个注意力缺乏的时代。”