Last summer, researchers at Yale published a study proving that physicists, chemists and biologists are likely to view a young male scientist more favorably than a woman with the same qualifications. Presented with identical summaries of the accomplishments of two imaginary applicants, professors at six major research institutions were significantly more willing to offer the man a job. If they did hire the woman, they set her salary, on average, nearly $4,000 lower than the man’s. Surprisingly, female scientists were as biased as their male counterparts.
去年夏天，耶鲁大学(Yale)研究者发表了一项研究：对于具有同等资历的年轻男性和女性科学家，物理学、化学和生物学的学者都更倾向于选择男性科学家。面对着成就相同的假想申请者的简历材料，六大研究机构的教授明显更愿意为男性申请者提供工作。即便他们愿意招收那名女性，提供给她的年薪也平均比提供给男性的低4000美元。更有意思的是，女性学者与其男性同僚偏见一致。
The new study goes a long way toward providing hard evidence of a continuing bias against women in the sciences. Only one-fifth of physics Ph.D.’s in this country are awarded to women, and only about half of those women are American; of all the physics professors in the United States, only 14 percent are women. The numbers of black and Hispanic scientists are even lower; in a typical year, 13 African-Americans and 20 Latinos of either sex receive Ph.D.’s in physics. The reasons for those shortages are hardly mysterious — many minority students attend secondary schools that leave them too far behind to catch up in science, and the effects of prejudice at every stage of their education are well documented. But what could still be keeping women out of the STEM fields (“STEM” being the current shorthand for “science, technology, engineering and mathematics”), which offer so much in the way of job prospects, prestige, intellectual stimulation and income?
这项新研究为女性在科学界长久以来一直受到的偏见提供了强有力的证据。在美国，仅仅五分之一的物理学博士学位授予女性，而其中只有一半是美国人。全美所有的物理教授中，女性仅占14%。黑人与拉丁裔就更少了。基本上一年里，只有13名非裔和20名拉丁裔美国人——男女都包括——取得物理学博士学位。这其实一点不难理解：很多少数人种上高中时就在科学类学科上远远落后，并且，他们在接受教育的每个阶段所受到的偏见也早有广泛记录。但是，在就业前景、个人声誉、智力刺激和收入等方面形势一片大好的STEM领域里（STEM即Science, technology, engineering, mathematics：科学、技术、工程、数学），到底是什么让女性从业者如此之少呢？
As one of the first two women to earn a bachelor of science degree in physics from Yale — I graduated in 1978 — this question concerns me deeply. I attended a rural public school whose few accelerated courses in physics and calculus I wasn’t allowed to take because, as my principal put it, “girls never go on in science and math.” Angry and bored, I began reading about space and time and teaching myself calculus from a book. When I arrived at Yale, I was woefully unprepared. The boys in my introductory physics class, who had taken far more rigorous math and science classes in high school, yawned as our professor sped through the material, while I grew panicked at how little I understood. The only woman in the room, I debated whether to raise my hand and expose myself to ridicule, thereby losing track of the lecture and falling further behind.
1978年，我毕业于耶鲁大学物理学专业。作为耶鲁头两个取得物理学学士学位的女生之一，这个问题深深困扰着我。我在一所乡下的公立学校上中学，在那里，一些物理和微积分的尖子课是不允许我上的。因为校长这么说：“女孩永远都不会去搞科学和数学的。”既愤懑又无聊，我开始阅读关于空间和时间的学习资料，还拿起书本自学微积分。刚进耶鲁时，我远没有准备好。和我一起上物理学绪论的男生在高中都接受过严格得多的数学和科学的训练。教授快速地讲述课程资料，男生们打着哈欠，而我却越来越焦虑自己懂的如此至少。我是整个教室里唯一的女生，我一直在斗争到底要不要举手问问题、让自己遭到嘲笑——结果就是我更加听不懂老师讲的东西，远远落在其他人后面。
In the end, I graduated summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa, with honors in the major, having excelled in the department’s three-term sequence in quantum mechanics and a graduate course in gravitational physics, all while teaching myself to program Yale’s mainframe computer. But I didn’t go into physics as a career. At the end of four years, I was exhausted by all the lonely hours I spent catching up to my classmates, hiding my insecurities, struggling to do my problem sets while the boys worked in teams to finish theirs. I was tired of dressing one way to be taken seriously as a scientist while dressing another to feel feminine. And while some of the men I wanted to date weren’t put off by my major, many of them were.
而最后，我以美国优秀大学生荣誉会会员的最高荣誉毕业，在系里连续三个学期的量子力学考试及引力物理学这门研究生课程中出类拔萃，同时我还自学了耶鲁大学大型计算机程序。但是我没有选择物理作为我的职业。四年结束时，我早已疲惫于为了赶上其他同学而长时间孤独地埋头苦学、隐藏内心的不安、在男生们合作解决作业题时独自奋斗；早已厌倦了为了让自己被看作是科学家而穿成一种样子、为了展示女性风采又穿成另一种样子；尽管也有我想交往的男生没被我的专业吓跑，但大多数确实被吓跑了。
Mostly, though, I didn’t go on in physics because not a single professor — not even the adviser who supervised my senior thesis — encouraged me to go to graduate school. Certain this meant I wasn’t talented enough to succeed in physics, I left the rough draft of my senior thesis outside my adviser’s door and slunk away in shame. Pained by the dream I had failed to achieve, I locked my textbooks, lab reports and problem sets in my father’s army footlocker and turned my back on physics and math forever.
不过，我没有投身于物理学的一个更主要的原因是：不曾有一位教授，连指导我毕业设计的导师都没有，鼓励我读研究生。显然这是认为我天资不够，无法在物理学领域取得成功。我把毕业论文的初稿放在导师办公室门口，羞涩地偷偷跑掉。没能实现梦想的伤痛让我把教科书、实验报告和作业题统统锁在了我父亲的军用提箱里，永远与物理和数学分道扬镳。
Not until 2005, when Lawrence Summers, then president of Harvard, wondered aloud at a lunchtime talk why more women don’t end up holding tenured positions in the hard sciences, did I feel compelled to reopen that footlocker. I have known Summers since my teens, when he judged my high-school debate team, and he has always struck me as an admirer of smart women. When he suggested — among several other pertinent reasons — that innate disparities in scientific and mathematical aptitude at the very highest end of the spectrum might account for the paucity of tenured female faculty, I got the sense that he had asked the question because he genuinely cared about the answer. I was taken aback by his suggestion that the problem might have something to do with biological inequalities between the sexes, but as I read the heated responses to his comments, I realized that even I wasn’t sure why so many women were still giving up on physics and math before completing advanced degrees. I decided to look up my former classmates and professors, review the research on women’s performance in STEM fields and return to Yale to see what, if anything, had changed since I studied there. I wanted to understand why I had walked away from my dream, and why so many other women still walk away from theirs.
直到2005年，当哈佛(Harvard)校长劳伦斯·萨默斯(Lawrence Summers)在一场午餐时间的演讲里问到“为什么很多女性都不在自然科学领域争取终身教授职位”时，我才觉得必须要打开那个箱子了。我自青少年时期就认识萨默斯，他曾是我高中辩论队的裁判，给我留下了“尊重聪慧女性”的印象。除了其他相关理由，他还提出了一种解释：男性与女性在科学与数学的最高端领域有天赋差异。我本以为他提这个问题是真心想知道答案，结果听到他推测“女性教授少可能是因为男女生物学上的差距”，我心中一惊。然而，当我读到针对他这个观点的激烈评论时，我意识到，即便是我自己，也不能确定为什么那么多女性在获得物理和数学高等学位之前就放弃了。我决定联系我以前的同学和教授，重审女性在STEM领域的表现，回到耶鲁，看看我毕业后事情是否有任何改变。我想知道我为什么背离了自己的梦想，为什么如此多的女性仍在背离她们的梦想。
In many ways, of course, the climate has become more welcoming to young women who want to study science and math. Female students at the high school I attended in upstate New York no longer need to teach themselves calculus from a book, and the physics classes are taught by a charismatic young woman. When I first returned to Yale in the fall of 2010, everyone kept boasting that 30 to 40 percent of the undergraduates majoring in physics and physics-related fields were women. More remarkable, those young women studied in a department whose chairwoman was the formidable astrophysicist Meg Urry, who earned her Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins, completed a postdoctorate at M.I.T.’s center for space research and served on the faculty of the Hubble space telescope before Yale hired her as a full professor in 2001. (At the time, there wasn’t a single other female faculty member in the department.)
当然，从很多方面来看，大环境对想学习科学和数学的女性已变得越来越友好。当年我在纽约州北部上的高中现已无需女生自学微积分，物理学也由一位有魅力的年轻女教师讲授。2010年的秋天，我第一次回到耶鲁，每个人都在夸耀物理学和物理相关专业的本科生中有30%到40%都是女生。更值得一提的是，这些女孩子所在系的系主任由杰出的女天体物理学家梅格·厄里(Meg Urry)担任。她在约翰·霍普金斯(Johns Hopkins)大学获得博士学位，在麻省理工学院(MIT)空间研究中心读了博士后，还曾为哈勃空间望远镜工作过，2001年被耶鲁大学聘请为终身教授。（那时，整个系一个女教授都没有。）
In recent years, Urry has become devoted to using hard data and anecdotes from her own experience to alter her colleagues’ perceptions as to why there are so few women in the sciences. In response to the Summers controversy, she published an essay in The Washington Post describing her gradual realization that women were leaving the profession not because they weren’t gifted but because of the “slow drumbeat of being underappreciated, feeling uncomfortable and encountering roadblocks along the path to success.”
近几年，厄里一直致力于用实实在在的数据和自己的个人经历改变同事中“为什么从事科学的女性那么少”的观念。她在《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)发表文章回击萨默斯的观点，她表示自己逐渐意识到女性相继离开专业岗位并非她们天赋不够，而是被长期的“不受重视、心情不爽、通往成功的道路遍布路障”给打击的。
Although Urry confessed in her op-ed column that as a young scientist she interpreted her repeated failures to be hired or promoted as proof that she wasn’t good enough, anyone who meets her now would have a hard time seeing her as lacking in confidence. She has a quizzical smile and radiant eyes and an irreverent sense of humor; not one but five people described her to me as the busiest woman on campus.
尽管厄里在她的专栏里坦率写到，年轻时她曾把自己在获聘与升职上屡遭失败看作是自己不够优秀的证据，但现在任何一个见过她的人都难以想象她也会不自信。她总挂着一种揶揄般的微笑、眼睛闪闪发亮、有着不留情面的幽默感。不止一个——足足有五个人曾向我描述，厄里是校园里最忙的女性。
Before we met, Urry predicted that the female students in her department would recognize the struggles she and I had faced but that their support system protected them from the same kind of self-doubt. For instance, under the direction of Bonnie Fleming, the second woman to gain tenure in the physics department at Yale, the students sponsor a semiregular Conference for Undergraduate Women in Physics at Yale. Beyond that, Urry suggested that with so many women studying physics at Yale, and so many of them at the top of their class, the faculty couldn’t help recognizing that their abilities didn’t differ from the men’s. When I mentioned that a tea was being held that afternoon so I could interview female students interested in science and gender, Urry said she would try to attend.
我们见面之前，厄里认为她系里的女生也会感受到厄里和我过去经过的挣扎，但系里的保障系统足以保护她们不产生我们那种自我怀疑。比如，在物理系第二位获得终身教职的女教授邦妮·弗莱明(Bonnie Fleming)的指导下，学生们为耶鲁物理学本科女生办起了不定期会议。除此之外，厄里觉得，既然有这么多女生在耶鲁学习物理，而且又有这么多名列前茅，教授不可能没发觉她们的能力不输男性。我提到下午有个茶会，届时我将采访一些对科学与性别感兴趣的女生，厄里说她会尽量参加。
Judith Krauss, the professor who was hosting the tea (she is the former dean of nursing and now master of Silliman College, where I lived as an undergraduate), warned me that very few students would be interested enough to show up. When 80 young women (and three curious men) crowded into the room, Krauss and I were stunned. By the time Urry hurried in, she was lucky to find a seat.
主持茶会的是朱迪思·克劳斯(Judith Krauss)教授（她是护理学院的前院长，现在是西利曼学院[Silliman College]院长，我本科时就住在西利曼），她提醒我说基本上不会有什么学生感兴趣参加的。而当80位年轻女性（和3位好奇的男性）挤进屋里时，克劳斯和我都震惊了。厄里急匆匆赶到，幸运地找到了一个座位。
The students clamored to share their stories. One young woman had been disconcerted to find herself one of only three girls in her AP physics course in high school, and even more so when the other two dropped out. Another student was the only girl in her AP physics class from the start. Her classmates teased her mercilessly: “You’re a girl. Girls can’t do physics.” She expected the teacher to put an end to the teasing, but he didn’t.
学生们七嘴八舌地分享自己的故事。一位女生在高中修大学物理时，惊慌失措地发现班里一共就3个女孩子；更糟的是，另外两位后来退课了。另一个女生说她从一开始就是唯一一个修大学物理的女生。同学无情地嘲笑她：“你是女孩子，女孩子学不了物理。”她希望老师能终止这种嘲弄，可他没有。
Other women chimed in to say that their teachers were the ones who teased them the most. In one physics class, the teacher announced that the boys would be graded on the “boy curve,” while the one girl would be graded on the “girl curve”; when asked why, the teacher explained that he couldn’t reasonably expect a girl to compete in physics on equal terms with boys.
另一名女生插进来说，她的老师才是嘲笑者中最过分的。一次物理课上，老师宣布：男生的成绩按“男生正态分布”给，女生按“女生正态分布”给。当问及理由，老师解释说他无法合理地期望一个女生能在物理上与男生按统一标准竞争。
The only members of the audience who didn’t know what the rest were talking about were the women who had attended all-girls secondary schools or had grown up in foreign countries. (The lesbian scientists with whom I spoke, at the tea and elsewhere, reported differing reactions to the gender dynamic of the classroom and the lab, but voiced many of the same concerns as the straight women.) One student — I took her to be Indian or Pakistani — said she arrived on campus having taken lots of advanced classes and didn’t hesitate to sign up for the most rigorous math course. Shaken to find herself the only girl in the class, unable to follow the first lecture, she asked the professor: Should I be here? “If you’re not confident that you should be here” — she imitated his scorn — “you shouldn’t take the class.”
听众中，对大家讨论的事情不明就里的要么是高中在女校读的，要么是生长在国外的。（与我在茶会及其他场合交谈过的女同性恋科学家对于课堂上和实验室的性别观念问题持有不同的看法，不过其中许多困扰都与普通女性一样。）有一名学生——印度籍或巴基斯坦籍——说她一到校就注册了很多高级课程，选最难的数学课时一点都没犹豫。可当她发现自己是班里唯一的女生，第一堂课就跟不上时，她动摇了。她问教授：“我该留下么？”“如果你没有信心留下”——她学着他讽刺的腔调——“那你就别修这课了”。
After the tea, a dozen girls stayed to talk. “The boys in my group don’t take anything I say seriously,” one astrophysics major complained. “I hate to be aggressive. Is that what it takes? I wasn’t brought up that way. Will I have to be this aggressive in graduate school? For the rest of my life?” Another said she disliked when she and her sister went out to a club and her sister introduced her as an astrophysics major. “I kick her under the table. I hate when people in a bar or at a party find out I’m majoring in physics. The minute they find out, I can see the guys turn away.” Yet another went on about how even at Yale the men didn’t want to date a physics major, and how she was worried she’d go through four years there without a date.
茶会结束后，十几名女生留下来继续讨论。“我们组的男生从不认真对待我说的话，”一个天体物理专业的女生抱怨说，“我不想表现得争强好胜，必须这样么？我生来不是这 种人。读研究生就一定要好斗吗？以后一辈子都要这样？”另一个说她不喜欢和姐姐一起去俱乐部时被介绍说是天体物理专业的。“我在桌下踢她。我讨厌酒吧或派对里的人知道我读物理专业。他们知道的那一瞬间，男孩子都扭头走了。”还有一名女生提起，就算是耶鲁的男生也不愿意跟学物理的女生约会，她很担心自己在4年里将一次约会都没有。
After the students left, I asked Urry if she was as flabbergasted as I was. “More,” she said — after all, she was the chairwoman of the department in which most of these girls were studying.
学生离开后，我问厄里她是否也跟我一样吃惊。“比你更吃惊，”她说——毕竟，她是这些女生中大多数人的系主任。
In the two years that followed, I heard similar accounts echoed among young women in Michigan, upstate New York and Connecticut. I was dismayed to find that the cultural and psychological factors that I experienced in the ’70s not only persist but also seem all the more pernicious in a society in which women are told that nothing is preventing them from succeeding in any field. If anything, the pressures to be conventionally feminine seem even more intense now than when I was young.
此后两年里，我又从密歇根、纽约州北部和康涅狄格州的年轻女性口中听到类似的故事。我真失望，自己在20世纪70年代经历的文化和心理上的影响因素不仅延续至当今社会——一个告诉女性什么都不能阻止她们在一切领域成功的社会——似乎还更甚于过去。细究的话，“做传统温柔女性”的压力倒是比我年轻时更大了。
For proof of the stereotypes that continue to shape American attitudes about science, and about women in science in particular, you need only watch an episode of the popular television show “The Big Bang Theory,” about a group of awkward but endearing male Caltech physicists and their neighbor, Penny, an attractive blonde who has moved to L.A. to make it as an actress. Although two of the scientists on the show are women, one, Bernadette, speaks in a voice so shrill it could shatter a test tube. When she was working her way toward a Ph.D. in microbiology, rather than working in a lab, as any real doctoral student would do, she waitressed with Penny. Mayim Bialik, the actress who plays Amy, a neurobiologist who becomes semiromantically involved with the childlike but brilliant physicist Sheldon, really does have a Ph.D. in neuroscience and is in no way the hideously dumpy woman she is presented as on the show. “The Big Bang Theory” is a sitcom, of course, and therefore every character is a caricature, but what remotely normal young person would want to enter a field populated by misfits like Sheldon, Howard and Raj? And what remotely normal young woman would want to imagine herself as dowdy, socially clueless Amy rather than as stylish, bouncy, math-and-science-illiterate Penny?
要想找到美国人对科学、特别是对从事科学的女性的刻板印象，你只需看一集广受欢迎的电视剧《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)就行了。剧中角色包括一伙加州理工学院(Caltech)笨拙又可爱的男性物理学家和他们的邻居佩妮(Penny)，一个有魅力的金发女郎，来洛杉矶实现她的演员梦。尽管剧里出现了两位女科学家，可是其中一个，伯纳黛特(Bernadette)，说话声音尖锐刺耳，足以震碎试管。在她努力取得微生物学博士学位时，并不是在实验室工作——像任何一个真正的博士研究生一样，而是与佩妮一起当服务员。而另一位，由马伊姆·拜力克(Mayim Bialik)出演的艾米(Amy)是名神经生物学家，她与孩子气但聪明绝顶的物理学家谢尔顿(Sheldon)发展出暧昧关系。拜力克本人确实拥有神经生物学博士学位，在生活中也绝不像剧中所饰的人物那般矮胖邋遢。诚然，《生活大爆炸》是个情景喜剧，每个角色都是夸张的。但是，有哪个正常的年轻人愿意踏进充斥着谢尔顿、霍华德(Howard)和拉杰(Raj)这种怪胎的屋子？又有哪个正常的年轻姑娘愿意把自己想象成寒酸、社交低能的艾米，而非时髦、愉快、数学盲加科学盲的佩妮？
Although Americans take for granted that scientists are geeks, in other cultures a gift for math is often seen as demonstrating that a person is intuitive and creative. In 2008, the American Mathematical Society published data from a number of prestigious international competitions in an effort to track standout performers. The American competitors were almost always the children of immigrants, and very rarely female. For example, between 1959 and 2008, Bulgaria sent 21 girls to the International Mathematical Olympiad, while the U.S., from 1974, when it first entered the competition, to 2008, sent only 3; no woman even made the American team until 1998. According to the study’s authors, native-born American students of both sexes steer clear of math clubs and competitions because “only Asians and nerds” would voluntarily do math. “In other words, it is deemed uncool within the social context of U.S.A. middle and high schools to do mathematics for fun; doing so can lead to social ostracism. Consequently, gifted girls, even more so than boys, usually camouflage their mathematical talent to fit in well with their peers.”
虽然美国人想当然地把科学家和土包子划等号，但在其他文化中，拥有数学天赋通常被看做是一个人反应快、有创意的证明。2008年，美国数学学会(American Mathematical Society)调查了一系列旨在发掘优秀人才的国际著名数学大赛参赛情况。数据显示：美国选手几乎全是移民来的孩子，且很少有女选手。例如，1959年到2008年，保加利亚送出21名女生参加国际数学奥林匹克竞赛(International Mathematical Olympiad)，而美国自1974年第一次参加该竞赛起至2008年，一共才送出3名女生；1998年以前居然一个女性都没有。这项调查的作者称，美国本土学生无论男女坚决不参加数学俱乐部和数学竞赛，因为“只有亚洲人和书呆子”才会自愿去搞数学。“换句话说，美国初中和高中的普遍观点是，喜欢学数学是很土的；这样做会被其他人排挤。”结果，有天赋的——甚至天赋胜于男生的女生，通常都会为了合群而掩盖数学才能。
The study’s findings apply equally in science. Urry told me that at the space telescope institute where she used to work, the women from Italy and France “dress very well, what Americans would call revealing. You’ll see a Frenchwoman in a short skirt and fishnets; that’s normal for them. The men in those countries seem able to keep someone’s sexual identity separate from her scientific identity. American men can’t seem to appreciate a woman as a woman and as a scientist; it’s one or the other.”
上述调查结果同样适用于科学类学科。厄里告诉我，在她过去工作过的空间望远镜局里，意大利和法国女性“穿得特别漂亮，是美国人会说露得太多的那种。你能见到法国女人穿着短裙和网袜；这对她们而言太正常了。那些国家的男人似乎能够把人的性别身份与学术身份分开对待。美国男人好像无法把女性既做女人又做科学家来欣赏；只能二选一。”
That the disparity between men and women’s representation in science and math arises from culture rather than genetics seems beyond dispute. In the early 1980s, a large group of American middle-schoolers were given the SAT exam in math; among those who scored higher than 700, boys outperformed girls by 13 to 1. But scoring 700 or higher on the SATs, even in middle school, doesn’t necessarily reveal true mathematical creativity or facility with higher-level concepts. And these were all American students. The mathematical society’s study of the top achievers in international competitions went much further in examining genius by analyzing the performance of young women in other cultures. The study’s conclusion? The scarcity of women at the very highest echelons “is due, in significant part, to changeable factors that vary with time, country and ethnic group. First and foremost, some countries identify and nurture females with very high ability in mathematics at a much higher frequency than do others.” Besides, the ratio of boys to girls scoring 700 or higher on the math SAT in middle school is now only three to one. If girls were so constrained by their biology, how could their scores have risen so steadily in such a short time?
毋庸置疑的是，在科学和数学领域中，男女地位差别并非基因导致，而是文化驱使。80年代初，一大批美国初中生参加了美国高考(SAT)中的数学考试。那些分数超过700的学生中，男女比例13：1。不过就算在初中就能取得700甚至更高的分数，也并不代表该生在更高的数学领域上拥有真正的创造性和能力。而且这些全都是美国学生。数学界曾对国际比赛中成绩最优秀的学生进行研究，通过分析身处其他文化中的年轻女性表现来分析其天赋。这项研究的结论？在科学领域阶梯最高层鲜有女性，“主要归因于时代、国家和种族群体的可变因素。首先，也是最重要的一点是，一些赏识并培育拥有极高数学天赋女性的国家，其女性科学家的比例要远高于别国。”此外，现在在SAT数学考试中分数超过700的学生里，男女比例仅为3：1了。如果女生如此受制于生理局限，那她们又怎能在短期内稳步提高成绩呢？
In elementary school, girls and boys perform equally well in math and science. But by the time they reach high school, when those subjects begin to seem more difficult to students of both sexes, the numbers diverge. Although the percentage of girls taking high-school physics rose to 47 percent in 1997 from 39 percent in 1987, that figure has remained constant into the new millennium. And the numbers become more alarming when you look at AP classes rather than general physics, and at the scores on AP exams rather than mere attendance in AP classes. The statistics tend to be a bit more encouraging in AP calculus, but they are far worse in computer science. Maybe boys care more about physics and computer science than girls do. But an equally plausible explanation is that boys are encouraged to tough out difficult courses in unpopular subjects, while girls, no matter how smart, receive fewer arguments from their parents, teachers or guidance counselors if they drop a physics class or shrug off an AP exam.
小学里，男孩和女孩在数学和科学上的表现旗鼓相当。上高中前，当无论对于男女这些学科都开始变难的时候，差异显现了。尽管从1987年到1997年间，在高中修物理课的女生比例从39%上升到47%，可直到2000年也再没有增加。而且如果你观察大学物理课、而不是高中物理的选课情况；以及大学物理课的成绩、而非出勤率，你会发现形势更加严峻。大学微积分选课情况稍好，计算机学科简直惨不忍睹。可能男生比女生更喜欢物理和计算机。但另一个同样可能的解释是：男生总是被鼓励要在困难的、不受欢迎的学科上坚持下去；而女生，不管她多聪明，退掉门物理课或不认真对待大学物理考试都不会受到太多来自家长、老师和辅导员的批评。
That cultural signals can affect a student’s ability to perform on an exam has long been known. In a frequently cited 1999 study, a sample of University of Michigan students with similarly strong backgrounds and abilities in math were divided into two groups. In the first, the students were told that men perform better on math tests than women; in the second, the students were assured that despite what they might have heard, there was no difference between male and female performance. Both groups were given a math test. In the first, the men outscored the women by 20 points; in the second, the men scored only 2 points higher.
人们早就了解，文化信号能够影响一个学生在考试中的表现。在那份多次被引用的1999年的研究中，密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的一些数学背景和能力都差不多的学生被分为两组。第一组学生被告知男性比女性在数学测试中表现更出色；而第二组被担保说不管他们之前听到过什么，男女其实没有差别。两组学生都参加了同一项数学测验，第一组男生比女生高出20多分，而第二组男生只比女生高2分。
It’s even possible that gifts in science and math aren’t identifiable by scores on tests. Less than one-third of the white American males who populate the ranks of engineering, computer science, math and the physical sciences scored higher than 650 on their math SATs, and more than one-third scored below 550. In the middle ranks, hard work, determination and encouragement seem to be as important as raw talent. Even at the very highest levels, test scores might be irrelevant; apparently, Richard Feynman’s I.Q. was a less-than-remarkable 125.
甚至有可能，数学和科学的天赋无法用考试成绩鉴别。遍布高等工程、计算机、数学和物理学领域的美国白人男性，只有不到三分之一的人在SAT数学考试中取得650分以上的成绩，而大于三分之一的人低于550分。在中等层次领域中，努力、决心与鼓励似乎和单纯的天赋同样重要。甚至在最高层次领域里，考试成绩也貌似没什么关系。大家都知道，理查德·费曼(Richard Feynman)的智商才125，并不很出挑。
The most powerful determinant of whether a woman goes on in science might be whether anyone encourages her to go on. My freshman year at Yale, I earned a 32 on my first physics midterm. My parents urged me to switch majors. All they wanted was that I be able to earn a living until I married a man who could support me, and physics seemed unlikely to accomplish either goal.
女性是否走上科学的征途，最强有力的影响因素也许是其他人是否鼓励她。我在耶鲁的第一年，物理期中考试得了32分，父母直催我换专业。他们所希望的就是我能养活自己直到结婚，然后让丈夫养活。学物理，不像是能达到这个目标。
I trudged up Science Hill to ask my professor, Michael Zeller, to sign my withdrawal slip. I took the elevator to Professor Zeller’s floor, then navigated corridors lined with photos of the all-male faculty and notices for lectures whose titles struck me as incomprehensible. I knocked at my professor’s door and managed to stammer that I had gotten a 32 on the midterm and needed him to sign my drop slip.
我走上Science Hill去找授课教授迈克尔·泽勒(Michael Zeller)签退课表。我乘电梯来到泽勒教授那层，穿过墙壁上排列着清一色男教授照片、贴着我根本看不懂题目的讲座通知的走廊。我敲开教授的门，费了好大劲才结结巴巴地告诉他我期中考了32分，需要他帮我签退课表。
“Why?” he asked. He received D’s in two of his physics courses. Not on the midterms — in the courses. The story sounded like something a nice professor would invent to make his least talented student feel less dumb. In his case, the D’s clearly were aberrations. In my case, the 32 signified that I wasn’t any good at physics.
“为什么？”他问。他自己两门物理课都得了D，还不是期中考，而是整个课程。这故事听着很像一个和蔼的教授为了让他最笨的学生感觉自己不那么傻而编出来的。他的情况是，那两个D显然是发挥失常。而我的情况是，32分就意味着我根本学不了物理。
“Just swim in your own lane,” he said. Seeing my confusion, he told me that he had been on the swimming team at Stanford. His stroke was as good as anyone’s. But he kept coming in second. “Zeller,” the coach said, “your problem is you keep looking around to see how the other guys are doing. Keep your eyes on your own lane, swim your fastest and you’ll win.”
“就在你自己那道游，”他说。他看出了我的困惑，告诉我说他曾是斯坦福(Stanford)游泳队一员。他的动作和别人一样棒，可总是游不过别人。“泽勒，”教练说，“你的问题是老看其他人游得怎么样。就看你自己那条泳道，游出你最快速度，你就能赢。”
I gathered this meant he wouldn’t be signing my drop slip.
我估摸着他说这番话的意思是不会给我签退课表。
“You can do it,” he said. “Stick it out.”
“你能行的，”他说，“坚持下去。”
I stayed in the course. Week after week, I struggled to do my problem sets, until they no longer seemed impenetrable. The deeper I now tunnel into my four-inch-thick freshman physics textbook, the more equations I find festooned with comet-like exclamation points and theorems whose beauty I noted with exploding novas of hot-pink asterisks. The markings in the book return me to a time when, sitting in my cramped dorm room, I suddenly grasped some principle that governs the way objects interact, whether here on earth or light years distant, and I marveled that such vastness and complexity could be reducible to the equation I had highlighted in my book. Could anything have been more thrilling than comprehending an entirely new way of seeing, a reality more real than the real itself?
我继续上那门课。一周一周过去，我努力解决作业题，直到它们看起来不是那么高深莫测。现在，我越仔细重温我4英寸厚的大一物理教程，就会发现越多的用彗星一样的感叹号标注的公式和用爆炸新星一样的粉红色星号划出的理论精髓。书中的注释将我带回曾经的年代：我坐在拥挤的宿舍里，忽然明白了某些支配物体相互作用的原理——不管是地球上或是几光年以外，我惊讶于如此广大复杂的体系竟能浓缩成我在书中划出的公式。还有什么能比掌握了一种全新看世界的方法、掌握了比现实还真的现实更加激动人心的呢？
I earned a B in the course; the next semester I got an A. By the start of my senior year, I was at the top of my class, with the most experience conducting research. But not a single professor asked me if I was going on to graduate school. When I mentioned shyly to Professor Zeller that my dream was to apply to Princeton and become a theoretician, he shook his head and said that if you went to Princeton, you had better put your ego in your back pocket, because those guys were so brilliant and competitive that you would get that ego crushed, which made me feel as if I weren’t brilliant or competitive enough to apply.
学期结束我得了B；第二个学期我得了A。在大四开始前，我已跻身班级前列，还拥有最多的科研经验。然而，没有一个教授问我想不想上研究生。当我羞涩地向泽勒教授提起我的梦想是进普林斯顿(Princeton)做研究最后成为一名理论物理学家时，他摇摇头说，你想去普林斯顿，那就把你的自负装进兜里。因为那里的男生特别聪明、特别有竞争力，你的自负会被碾碎的。他的话让我觉得自己不够聪明、竞争力不足，没资格申请。
Not even the math professor who supervised my senior thesis urged me to go on for a Ph.D. I had spent nine months missing parties, skipping dinners and losing sleep, trying to figure out why waves — of sound, of light, of anything — travel in a spherical shell, like the skin of a balloon, in any odd-dimensional space, but like a solid bowling ball in any space of even dimension. When at last I found the answer, I knocked triumphantly at my adviser’s door. Yet I don’t remember him praising me in any way. I was dying to ask if my ability to solve the problem meant that I was good enough to make it as a theoretical physicist. But I knew that if I needed to ask, I wasn’t.
指导我做毕业设计的数学教授也没有敦促我去读博士学位。我9个月来没有参加过派对、经常晚饭不吃、睡眠不足，就为弄明白为什么波——声音、光还有其他的波——在一切奇数维空间里是以球面形式传播，就像气球的球皮；而在一切偶数维空间中就像一个实心的保龄球那样传播。当我最终找到答案时，我满怀胜利之情敲开了导师的门。可我记得他一句也没夸我。我迫切地想问问，是不是我解决了这个问题就证明我的能力足够强，以后能成为理论物理学家。但我知道如果我有必要问这个问题的话，我就不够强。
Years later, when I contacted that same professor, the mathematician Roger Howe, he responded enthusiastically to my request that we get together to discuss women in science and math. We met at his office, in a building that still has a large poster of famous mathematicians (all male) in the lobby, although someone has tacked a smaller poster of “famous women in math” on the top floor beside the women’s bathroom. Howe appeared remarkably youthful, even when you consider that when I studied with him, he was the youngest full professor at Yale. He suggested we grab a sandwich, and as we sat waiting for our panini, I told him that one reason I didn’t go to graduate school was that I compared myself with him and judged my talents wanting. After all, I’d had such a difficult time solving the problem he had challenged me to solve.
多年以后，我再联系那位教授——数学家罗杰·豪(Roger Howe)，他热情洋溢地回答说很愿意找个时间和我一起谈谈女性在科学与数学中的问题。我们在他的办公室里见了面，走廊的墙上贴了一大幅知名数学教授的海报（全是男性），这座楼的顶层女洗手间旁边，倒是有人钉了张小一些的海报：知名女数学家。我在豪手下学习时，他是耶鲁最年轻的全职教授，他现在还是显得格外年轻。他建议我们买个三明治吃。在我们等候上餐之时，我告诉他我没有上研究生的一个原因是我把自己和他做了番比较，从而判断出自己天资不足。毕竟，我费了九牛二虎之力才解决了他让我挑战的那道题。
He looked puzzled. “But you solved it.”
他似乎没明白：“但是你做出来了。”
“Yeah,” I said. “At the end I really understood what I was doing. But it took me such a long time.”
“是，”我说，“最后我终于明白怎么回事了，可我花了那么长时间。”
“But that’s just how it is,” he said. “You don’t see it until you do, and then you wonder why you didn’t see it all along.”
“事情就是这样啊，”他说，“直到做出来的时候才明白，然后你就奇怪怎么早没明白。”
But I had needed to drop my class in real analysis.
但我必须退掉实分析课。
Howe shrugged. There are a lot of different math personalities. Different mathematicians are good at different fields.
豪耸了耸肩说，有很多“数学性格”，不同数学家在不同方面拿手。
I asked if he had noticed any differences between the ways male and female students approach math problems, whether they have different “math personalities.” No, he said. Then again, he couldn’t get inside his students’ heads. He did have two female students go on in math, and both had done fairly well.
我问他是否注意到解决数学问题时男生和女生的方式有所不同，他们是否有不同的“数学性格”。没有，他回答。然后又说，他无法钻到学生脑袋里面去。他有两个女学生在进修数学，两人都挺不错。
I asked why even now there were no female professors on Yale’s math faculty. No tenured women, Howe corrected me. Just recently, the department had voted to hire a woman for a tenure-track job. (That woman did not receive tenure, but this year the faculty did hire a senior female professor.) Well, I said, that’s still not very many. He stared into the distance. “I guess I just haven’t seen that many women whose work I’m excited about.” I watched him mull over his answer, the way I used to watch him visualize n-dimensional toruses cradled in his hands. “Maybe women are victims of misperception,” he said finally. Not long ago, one of his colleagues at another school admitted to him that back when all of them were starting out, there were two people in his field, a woman and a man, and this colleague assumed the man must be the better mathematician, but the woman has gone on to do better work.
我又问，为什么直到现在耶鲁的数学教授里还是没有女性。没有拿到终身教职的女性——豪纠正我。就在最近，系里投票表决是否雇聘一名以终身教授为职业目标的女性。（她没有拿到终身教职，但是这一年系里确实招了另一名资深女教授。）我说，可还是很少啊。他朝远处望去：“我猜是因为还没有哪个女性的成果让我感到兴奋吧。”我看着他仔细考虑着答案，用我曾见过的，假想手中握着一个N维环形时的样子。“也许女性是偏见受害者，”他终于回答到。不久以前，他另一所学校的同事向他坦白，当他们刚开始研究数学时，有两个人在同一领域——一男一女，同事想当然地认为男性在数学上占据优势，可结果是那名女性的工作更出色。
I finally came straight out and asked what he thought of my project. How did it compare with all the other undergraduate research projects he must have supervised?
最终，我直白地问他觉得我当时的题做得怎么样。比起他指导的其他本科生课题，我怎么样。
His eyebrows lifted, as if to express the mathematical symbol for puzzlement. Actually, he hadn’t supervised more than two or three undergraduates in his entire career. “It’s very unusual for any undergraduate to do an independent project in mathematics,” he said. “By that measure, I would have to say that what you did was exceptional.”
他挑起了眉毛，表现出一种数学家感到困惑的样子。实际上，他整个职业生涯中也不过指导过两三个本科生课题。“本科生独立做数学课题是极其罕见的，”他说：“这样看来，我不得不说你的工作是杰出的。”
“Exceptional?” I echoed. Then why had he never told me?
“杰出？”我重复。那他为什么从没告诉过我？
The question took him aback. I asked if he ever specifically encouraged any undergraduates to go on for Ph.D.’s; after all, he was now the director of undergraduate studies. But he said he never encouraged anyone to go on in math. “It’s a very hard life,” he told me. “You need to enjoy it. There’s a lot of pressure being a mathematician. The life, the culture, it’s very hard.”
我问他有没有特别鼓励过某个本科生攻读博士学位，因为毕竟他现在主管本科生——他吃了一惊。他说他不曾鼓励过任何一个人继续数学研究。“这是非常艰难的，”他告诉我，“你必须乐在其中。做一名数学家压力太大了。这种生活、文化环境，太难了。”
When I told Meg Urry that Howe and several other of my professors said they don’t encourage anyone to go on in physics or math because it’s such a hard life, she blew raspberries. “Oh, come on,” she said. “They’re their own bosses. They’re well paid. They love what they do. Why not encourage other people to go on in what you love?” She gives many alumni talks, “and there’s always a woman who comes up to me and says the same thing you said, I wanted to become a physicist, but no one encouraged me. If even one person had said, ‘You can do this.’ ” She laughed. “Women need more positive reinforcement, and men need more negative reinforcement. Men wildly overestimate their learning abilities, their earning abilities. Women say, ‘Oh, I’m not good, I won’t earn much, whatever you want to give me is O.K.’ ”
我告诉梅格·厄里，豪还有许多其他教授说他们不鼓励任何人走上物理或数学之路，因为这条路太难走了，厄里不屑地一笑：“快算了吧！他们自己说了算、报酬丰厚、喜欢干他们那行，为什么不鼓励别人做你自己喜欢做的事情？”她给过很多校友讲座，说“总有女性对我讲你刚才讲过的那番话：我想当物理学家，但没人鼓励我，即便只有一个人跟我说‘你能行的’”。厄里笑道：“女人需要更多的正向推动，男人则需要更多负面推动。男人们过分地高估自己的学习能力和挣钱能力。女人却说‘哎，我不够好，我挣不了很多钱，你随便给我什么我都觉得不错’。”
One student told Urry she doubted that she was good enough for grad school, and Urry asked why — the student had earned nearly all A’s at Yale, which has one of the most rigorous physics programs in the country. “A woman like that didn’t think she was qualified, whereas I’ve written lots of letters for men with B averages.” She won’t say that getting a Ph.D. is easy. “It is a grind. When a young woman says, ‘How is this going to be for me?’ I have to say that yes, there are easier things to do. But that doesn’t mean I need to discourage her from trying. You don’t need to be a genius to do what I do. When I told my adviser what I wanted to do, he said, ‘Oh, Meg, you have to be a genius to be an astrophysicist.’ I was the best physics major they had. What he was really saying was that I wasn’t a genius, wasn’t good enough. What, all those theoreticians out there are all Feynman or Einstein? I don’t think so.”
有个学生对厄里说，她怀疑自己是否够格上研究生。该生在耶鲁的物理系——几乎是全美最严格的物理系——几乎拿了全A，厄里问她为什么。“像她那样的女孩也不认为自己够优秀，我反倒为一大堆平均分是B的男生写过推荐信。”厄里的意思不是说获得博士学位是很轻松的事情。“那是个磨砺的过程。如果一名年轻女性问‘读博士是什么样的呢？’我会回答：‘当然，简单的事情多了去了。’但这并不代表我不鼓励她试一试。做我这行，你不必非得是个天才不可。我跟我导师说我以后想做什么时，他说：‘哦，梅格，想成为天文物理学家，你得是个天才才行。’我可是他们物理专业最棒的学生。他的意思就是说我不是天才，我不够好。难道，所有那些理论物理学家都是费曼、爱因斯坦么？我可不这么看。”
Not long ago, I met five young Yale alumnae at a Vietnamese restaurant in Cambridge. Three of the women were attending graduate school at Harvard — two in physics and one in astronomy — and two were studying oceanography at M.I.T. None expressed anxiety about surviving graduate school, but all five said they frequently worried about how they would teach and conduct research once they had children.
不久前，我在坎布里奇的一家越南餐馆会见了5名年轻的耶鲁女校友。其中3人正在哈佛读研究生——两人学物理，一人学天文；另外两名在麻省理工学院读海洋学。她们中无一人表现出在研究生院奋斗的焦虑，但每个人都表示，她们时常担心将来有了孩子以后在教学与科研上的表现会怎样。
“That’s where you lose all the female physicists,” one woman said.
“就因为这个，社会失去了那么多的女性物理学家，”一个人说。
“Yeah, it’s even hard to get your kid into child care at M.I.T.,” said another.
“是啊，想把孩子送到麻省理工的托儿所都很困难，”另一个说。
“Women are just as willing as men to sacrifice other things for work,” said a third. “But we’re not willing to do even more work than the men — work in the lab and teach, plus do all the child care and housework.”
“女人和男人一样愿意为工作牺牲，”第三个人说，“但我们不愿意比男人干的还多——科研、教学、外加带孩子和做家务。”
What most young women don’t realize, Urry said, is that being an academic provides a female scientist with more flexibility than most other professions. She met her husband on her first day at the Goddard Space Flight Center. “And we have a completely equal relationship,” she told me. “When he looks after the kids, he doesn’t say he’s helping me.” No one is claiming that juggling a career in physics while raising children is easy. But having a family while establishing a career as a doctor or a lawyer isn’t exactly easy either, and that doesn’t prevent women from pursuing those callings. Urry suspects that raising a family is often the excuse women use when they leave science, when in fact they have been discouraged to the point of giving up.
大多数年轻女性没有意识到的是——厄里说——科研工作其实比很多行业为女性学者提供了更高的自由度。她在戈达德宇宙飞行中心(Goddard Space Flight Center)工作的第一天就遇到了未来成为她丈夫的人。“我们的关系绝对平等，”她告诉我，“他带孩子的时候并不讲他是在帮我。”没人会声称一边努力从事物理研究一边养孩子是件轻松的事情。但既要照顾家庭又要做医生或律师也不容易，可那也没有阻止女性前赴后继成为医生和律师。厄里认为，女人离开科学领域往往用照顾家庭作为借口，而实际上她们是被打击到临界点了。
All Ph.D.’s face the long slog of competing for a junior position, writing grants and conducting enough research to earn tenure. Yet women running the tenure race must leap hurdles that are higher than those facing their male competitors, often without realizing any such disparity exists.
所有博士都面临着长期艰苦的跋涉：竞争初级职位、写资金申请、还要做足够的研究以获得终身教职。尽管女性在获取终身教职的漫漫征途上必须比男性同僚跳过更高的路障，可她们经常意识不到这样的差异存在。
In the mid-1990s, three senior female professors at M.I.T. came to suspect that their careers had been hampered by similar patterns of marginalization. They took the matter to the dean, who appointed a committee of six senior women and three senior men to investigate their concerns. After performing the investigation and studying the data, the committee concluded that the marginalization experienced by female scientists at M.I.T. “was often accompanied by differences in salary, space, awards, resources and response to outside offers between men and women faculty, with women receiving less despite professional accomplishments equal to those of their colleagues.” The dean concurred with the committee’s findings. And yet, as was noted in the committee’s report, his fellow administrators “resisted the notion that there was any problem that arose from gender bias in the treatment of the women faculty. Some argued that it was the masculine culture of M.I.T. that was to blame, and little could be done to change that.” In other words, women didn’t become scientists because science — and scientists — were male.
90年代中期，麻省理工的3名资深女性教授开始怀疑，她们的事业发展被类似边缘化的模式阻碍。她们向系主任提出这个看法，系主任任命6名资深女教授和3名资深男教授成立委员会，就此问题展开调查。委员会经过调研得出结论：麻省理工的女性科学家所感受到的‘边缘化’通常与“男女教授在工资、可利用空间、奖励、资源和外界资助的回应方面的差别”有关。不论女性教员的成就是否与同事相当，她们得到的上述一切总是少一些。”系主任同意委员会的结论。不过，虽然委员会的报告是这么写的，但行政人员否认“因女性教员受到性别偏见而出现了任何问题”的说法。有些人争辩说麻省理工整体的‘阳刚之气’是首因，对此人们无能为力。”换句话讲，女性之所以没能成为科学家，是因为科学——是雄性。
The committee’s most resonant finding was that the discrimination facing female scientists in the final quarter of the 20th century was qualitatively different from the more obvious forms of sexism addressed by civil rights laws and affirmative action, but no less real. As Nancy Hopkins, one of the professors who initiated the study, put it in an online forum: “I have found that even when women win the Nobel Prize, someone is bound to tell me they did not deserve it, or the discovery was really made by a man, or the important result was made by a man, or the woman really isn’t that smart. This is what discrimination looks like in 2011.”
委员会最重大的发现是：20世纪末女性科学家受到的歧视，与民权法和平权法案解决的更露骨的性别歧视有着本质上的不同，但同样真实。就像其中一位进行此研究的教授南希·霍普金斯(Nancy Hopkins)在某网络论坛中说的：“我发现，即便女人获得了诺贝尔奖，仍然有人马上跳出来说她不应该得这个奖，或者其实这项发现是属于某个男性的，或者最重要的结果是由某个男性获得，或者这个女人其实没那么聪明。这就是2011年性别歧视的形式。”
Not everyone agrees that what was uncovered at M.I.T. actually qualifies as discrimination. Judith Kleinfeld, a professor emeritus in the psychology department at the University of Alaska, argues that the M.I.T. study isn’t persuasive because the number of faculty members involved is too small and university officials refuse to release the data. Even if female professors have been shortchanged or shunted aside, their marginalization might be a result of the same sorts of departmental infighting, personality conflicts and “mistaken impressions” that cause male faculty members to feel slighted as well. “Perceptions of discrimination are evidence of nothing but subjective feelings,” Kleinfeld scoffs.
并不是所有人都认同麻省理工的发现可以被称作“歧视”。阿拉斯加大学(University of Alaska)心理系荣退教授朱迪思·克莱因菲尔德(Judith Kleinfeld)认为，麻省理工的研究不具有说服力，因为所研究的教授人数太少，学校官方也拒绝开放数据。即使女性教授被区别对待、被搞得不自在了，她们的被边缘化也许是系里内部斗争、性格冲突和让男性教员自我感觉更良好些的“错误印象”的结果。“受歧视根本不是什么证据，主观感觉而已，”克莱因菲尔德笑道。
But broader studies show that the perception of discrimination is often accompanied by a very real difference in the allotment of resources. In February 2012, the American Institute of Physics published a survey of 15,000 male and female physicists across 130 countries. In almost all cultures, the female scientists received less financing, lab space, office support and grants for equipment and travel, even after the researchers controlled for differences other than sex. “In fact,” the researchers concluded, “women physicists could be the majority in some hypothetical future yet still find their careers experience problems that stem from often unconscious bias.”
然而更广泛的研究显示：受歧视的感觉通常与资源分配不均密切相关。2012年2月，美国物理学会(American Institute of Physics)发布了一项调查结果，调查对象包括130个国家的1.5万名男性与女性物理学家。在研究者排除了性别以外一切影响因素的基础上，几乎所有国家的女性科学家都比男性获得更少的资金、实验室空间、后勤资源、购买仪器和出差的补助。研究者总结：“实际上，在未来某一时刻，女性物理学家会占据多数，但她们仍会在事业发展中遭受由往往察觉不到的偏见所带来的的困扰。”
Jo Handelsman spends much of her time studying micro-organisms in the soil and the guts of insects, but since the early 1990s, she also has devoted herself to increasing the participation of women and minorities in science. Although she long suspected that the same subtle biases documented in the general population were at work among scientists, she had no data to support such assertions. “People said, ‘Oh, that might happen in the Midwest or in the South, but not in New England, or not in my department — we just graduated a woman.’ They would say, ‘That only happens in economics.’ ” Male scientists told Handelsman: I have women in my lab! My female students are smarter than the men! “They go to their experience,” she said, “with a sample size of one.” She laughed. “Scientists can be so unscientific.”
乔·汉德尔斯曼(Jo Handelsman)花了大量时间研究土壤中的微生物和昆虫的肠道。但从90年代早期开始，她同时投身于推动女性和少数群体参与科学的运动。尽管她早就怀疑在那种广为存在的微妙的性别偏见也适用于科学家群体，只苦于一直没有数据支持。“人们说，‘哦，这个问题也许在中西部或者南方存在吧，不过新英格兰可没有，我们系可没有——这儿刚毕业了一个女学生呢。’他们还会说，‘也就经济领域才有这个问题。’”男科学家告诉汉德尔斯曼：“我实验室里有女生！她们比男生还聪明！”“他们提的都是个人经验，”她说，“样本量为1。”她笑道：“科学家也能这么不科学。”
In 2010, Handelsman teamed up with Corinne Moss-Racusin, then a postdoctoral associate at Yale, to begin work on the study that was published last year, which directly documented gender bias in American faculty members in three scientific fields — physics, chemistry and biology — at six major research institutions scattered across the country.
2010年，汉德尔斯曼与当时在耶鲁做博士后的科琳娜·莫斯-拉库辛(Corinne Moss-Racusin)联手启动了一项研究，直接证明了美国教授的性别歧视问题。研究涵盖物理、化学和生物三个科学领域，涉及跨全国的6大研究机构。
Moss-Racusin, along with collaborators in the departments of psychology, psychiatry and the School of Management, designed a study that involved sending out identical résumés to professors of both sexes, with a cover page stating that the young applicant had recently obtained a bachelor’s degree and was now seeking a position as a lab manager. Half of the 127 participants received a résumé for a student named John; the other half received the identical résumé for Jennifer. In both cases, the applicant’s qualifications were sufficient for the job (with supportive letters of recommendation and the coauthorship of a journal article) but not overwhelmingly persuasive — the applicant’s G.P.A. was only 3.2, and he or she had withdrawn from one science class. Each faculty member was asked to rate John or Jennifer on a scale of one to seven in terms of competence, hireability, likability and the extent to which the professor might be willing to mentor the student. The professors were then asked to choose a salary range they would be willing to pay the candidate.
莫斯-拉库辛与心理系、精神医学系和管理学系的合作者们设计了一项研究：把两份一模一样的简历发给男教授和女教授。简历的封页上声明该年轻申请人最近刚取得本科学位，现在要找一份实验室秘书的工作。127名教授中一半人接到了“约翰(John)”的简历，而另一半接到了“珍妮佛(Jennifer)”的简历。简历中，两名申请人的能力都足以胜任这项工作（还另附了给予支持的推荐信与合作的文章），但不是极其具有说服力——申请人的平均绩点都只有3.2，且都退过一门科学类课程。每个教授都被要求给约翰或珍妮佛打分，把申请者的竞争力、可雇佣性、可爱程度以及教授有多愿意指导该学生用1到7分来衡量。之后，教授需给出薪水范围。
The results were startling. No matter the respondent’s age, sex, area of specialization or level of seniority, John was rated an average of half a point higher than Jennifer in all areas except likability, where Jennifer scored nearly half a point higher. Moreover, John was offered an average starting salary of $30,238, versus $26,508 for Jennifer. Handelsman told me that whenever she and Moss-Racusin show the graph to an audience of psychologists, “we hear a collective gasp, the significance is really so big.”
结果令人震惊。无论研究对象的年龄、性别、研究方向或资历，约翰比珍妮佛在除“可爱程度”外的其他所有方面都平均多得半分；珍妮佛只在“可爱程度”上多得半分。此外，平均提供给约翰的年薪是30238美元，而珍妮佛只有26508美元。汉德尔斯曼告诉我，任何时候，她和莫斯-拉库辛给心理学家们展示这份数据图，“我们都听到一片倒抽冷气的声音，差别竟如此之巨。”
I asked Handelsman if she was surprised that senior female faculty members demonstrated as much bias as male professors, regardless of age, and she said no; she had seen too many similar results in other studies. Nor was she surprised that the bias against women was as strong in biology as in physics or chemistry, despite the presence of more female biologists in most departments. Biologists may see women in their labs, she says, but their biases have been formed by images and attitudes they have been absorbing since birth. In a way, Handelsman is grateful that the women she studied turned out to be as biased as the men. When she gives a talk and reveals the results, she said, “you can watch the tension in the room drop. I can say: ‘We all do this. It’s not only you. It’s not just the bad boys who do this.’ ”
所有年龄段的资深女教授都与男教授抱有同样严重的性别歧视，我问汉德尔斯曼是否对此感到惊讶。她回答：没有。她在其他调查中看过太多类似结果了。她同样不感到奇怪的是：尽管大多数生物系里的女性多一些，但她们在该领域和在物理、化学领域中受到的排挤程度相当。生物学家会接收女研究员，她说，但他们自出生那刻起就开始吸收各种形象与言论，最终还是形成了偏见。在某种程度上，汉德尔斯曼对于她所研究的女性持有与男性同样的偏见是庆幸的。每当她做报告给出结论时，她说：“你能够感受到屋里的紧张气氛缓和了。这时我就可以说，‘我们都一样，不仅是你，不全是那些坏男生干的。’”
I asked Handelsman about the objection I commonly heard that John is a stronger name than Jennifer. She shook her head. “It’s not just a question of syllables, believe me,” she said. “There have been studies of which names convey the same qualities to respondents in surveys, and John and Jennifer are widely seen as conveying the same level of respectability and competence.” That faculty members reported liking Jennifer more than John makes the covert bias all the more insidious. As the authors make clear, their results mesh with the findings of similar studies indicating that people’s biases stem from “repeated exposure to pervasive cultural stereotypes that portray women as less competent by simultaneously emphasizing their warmth and likability compared to men.”
我还问了汉德尔斯曼怎么看待我常听到的反对意见：约翰这个名字听起来比珍妮佛更强势。她摇了摇头说：“真不只是音节问题，相信我。有人研究过在调查问卷中哪些名字听起来资质相当，大多数人都认为约翰和珍妮佛的名字给人感觉同样可敬，同样有实力。”教授们觉得珍妮佛比约翰更可爱这一点让隐匿的偏见更为阴险了。研究人员清楚地表示，他们的结果与其他类似研究结果一致：人们形成偏见是因为长期暴露在“把女性描绘成实力弱的群体、同时又强调她们比男人更加温柔可人”这样一种无孔不入的文化定势中。
And when you combine that subconscious institutional bias with the internal bias against their own abilities that many young female scientists report experiencing, the results are particularly troubling. Of all the data her study uncovered, Handelsman finds the mentoring results to be the most devastating. “If you add up all the little interactions a student goes through with a professor — asking questions after class, an adviser recommending which courses to take or suggesting what a student might do for the coming summer, whether he or she should apply for a research program, whether to go on to graduate school, all those mini-interactions that students use to gauge what we think of them so they’ll know whether to go on or not. . . . You might think they would know for themselves, but they don’t.” Handelsman shook her head. “Mentoring, advising, discussing — all the little kicks that women get, as opposed to all the responses that men get that make them feel more a part of the party.”
如果把研究机构中潜在的偏见与许多年轻女科学家对自我能力的怀疑联系在一起，结果尤其令人不安。在汉德尔斯曼收集的所有数据中，她发现“教师辅导学生”这一项最为糟糕。“如果你把学生与教授之间所有的细微交流都加起来——课后向教授提问、教授建议修哪门课、建议暑假的时候可以干些什么、他/她是否应该申请研究性课程、是否应该读研究生等等所有一切学生用来衡量我们是如何看待他们的小互动，由此他们判断是否应该继续科研——你可能认为他们自己会知道，其实他们不知道，”汉德尔斯曼摇了摇头，“辅导、建议、讨论——比起男生得到的那些能使他们产生强烈归属感的反馈而言，女生得到的不过是些小打小闹。”
Some critics argue that no real harm is done if women choose not to go into science. David Lubinski and Camilla Persson Benbow, psychologists at Vanderbilt University, spent decades studying thousands of mathematically precocious 12-year-olds. Their conclusion? The girls tended from the start to be “better rounded” and more eager to work with people, plants and animals than with things. Although more of the boys went on to enter careers in math or science, the women secured similar proportions of advanced degrees and high-level careers in fields like law, medicine and the social sciences. By their mid-30s, the men and women appeared to be equally happy with their life choices and viewed themselves as equally successful.
一些批评意见指出：如果女性不选择科学，那就没有这么多麻烦了。范德堡大学(Vanderbilt University)的大卫·鲁宾斯基(David Lubinski)和卡米拉·佩尔松·本博(Camilla Persson Benbow)花了数十年时间研究了几千名12岁的数学小天才。结论是，女孩子一开始就发育得更“全面”，更倾向与人、植物和动物——而不是东西——打交道。尽管更多的男孩子最终走进了数学和科学的世界，女性在另一些领域的高级学位或某些职位的高层也占据了相似比例，如法律、医药和社会学科。在35岁左右，男性与女性似乎对他们的人生选择差不多满意，对自己有多成功的评价也差不多。
And yet the argument that women are underrepresented in the sciences because they know they will be happier in “people” fields strikes me as misdirected.
然而，我认为“女性在科学界占据的席位少是因为她们明白自己会在‘人的领域’里更开心”这种看法真是大错特错。
The problem is that most girls — and boys — decide they don’t like math and science before those subjects reveal their true beauty, a condition worsened by the unimaginative ways in which science and math are taught. Last year, the President’s Council of Advisers on Science and Technology issued an urgent plea for substantial reform if we are to meet the demand for one million more STEM professionals than the United States is currently on track to produce in the next decade.
问题是：很多女孩子——以及男孩子——在数学和科学以真正魅力示人之前就认为自己不喜欢这些东西，这个问题在数学与科学毫无想象力的教授方式下更加恶化。去年，总统科技委员会(President’s Council of Advisers on Science and Technology)发出一项紧急提议：如果我们希望下个10年内，STEM领域的专家能比现在多100万名，必须马上采取根本性改革。
But beyond strengthening our curriculum, we need to make sure that we stop losing girls at every step as they fall victim to their lack of self-esteem, their misperceptions as to who does or doesn’t go on in science and their inaccurate assessments of their talents.
除了提高课程质量，我们还需保证不再因女孩们缺乏自信、对谁才应该从事科学事业存有误解以及错误地评估自身才能，而在每个阶段都丢失她们中的一些人。
As daunting as such reform might be, it is far from impossible. A book called “Math Doesn’t Suck,” by the actress Danica McKellar (who starred as Winnie Cooper on “The Wonder Years” before earning her bachelor’s degree in math at U.C.L.A.), along with her follow-up books, “Kiss My Math,” “Hot X: Algebra Exposed” and “Girls Get Curves: Geometry Takes Shape,” may well have done more to encourage girls to stick with math than any government task force. McKellar’s math books might go a little far in pandering to adolescent girls’ stereotypical obsessions (the problems involve best friends, beads and Barbies rather than baseballs and speeding cars), but the wildly enthusiastic response they have received speaks to the effect that can be achieved by reworking the contents of standard math and science problems and countering the perception that boys won’t like girls who are smart.
尽管改革任务艰巨，但远非不可行。演员丹妮卡·麦凯拉（Danica McKella，她出演过电影《两小无猜》中的温妮·库珀，后在美国加州大学洛杉矶分校拿到数学本科学位）写的《数学不讨厌》(Math Doesn’t Suck)一书，及其后续《亲吻我的数学》(Kiss My Math)、《性感X：代数暴露》(Hot X: Algebra Exposed)和《女孩曲线：几何出现》(Girls Get Curves: Geometry Takes Shape)可能比任何政府行为都更好地鼓励了女孩子在数学之路上坚持下去。麦凯拉的数学书可能在迎合青春期女孩的典型喜好上有点儿过了（题目中常出现闺蜜、小珠子和芭比娃娃，而非棒球和赛车）。不过，书籍获得的热烈好评证明，修订标准的数学和科学题目，反击“男生不喜欢聪明女生”的观点是有效的。
The key to reform is persuading educators, researchers and administrators that broadening the pool of female scientists and making the culture more livable for them doesn’t lower standards. If society needs a certain number of scientists, Urry said, and you can look for those scientists only among the males of the population, you are going to have to go much farther toward the bottom of the barrel than if you also can search among the females in the population, especially the females who are at the top of their barrel.
改革的关键是要说服教育者、研究者和学校管理者：扩大女性科学家群体，让文化氛围对女性更友好是不会降低学术标准的。如果社会需要一定数量的科学家，厄里说，你可以只从男性群体中找，只是要向下层深挖很多；但如果你愿意也在女性群体中寻找，那不必向下太多，就能找到处于行业顶端的女科学家。
In addition, she said, her colleagues need to recognize the potential of women who discover a passion for science relatively late. Studies show that an early interest in science doesn’t correlate with ability. You can be a science nut from infancy and not grow up to be good at research, Urry said, or you can come to science very late and turn out to be a whiz.
另外，她补充道，她的同事们需要认识到女性可能比较晚才发掘出对科研的热情。有研究证明，对科学的早期兴趣与能力并不相关。你可以在襁褓里就是个科学小狂人，但长大以后对研究并不在行——厄里说——或许你很晚才步入科学界，但发展成了奇才。
With a little practice and confidence, girls can even make up for an initial disadvantage working with machines, tools and electronic equipment. While boys consistently outperform girls in tests that measure the spatial skills essential for lab work and engineering, studies also show that spatial aptitude is a function of experience. At Olin College of Engineering in Massachusetts, the administration is dedicated to making sure that half the students in each entering class are women. All of Olin’s incoming students are required to take a machining course the first semester. According to Yevgeniya Zastavker, a faculty member who conducts research in biophysics and studies the role of gender in science: “Everyone is faced straight on with gender differences in the lab. We set them up in coed teams and ask them to design a tool or a product. If the gender dynamics get weird, we intervene, and that one intervention early on has a ginormous effect.”
一点训练和自信就能弥补女孩子一开始在操作机械、工具和电子设备方面的劣势。尽管男生在评测空间技能（这在实验室工作和工程中很重要）的测试中屡屡击败女生，研究显示空间感只是经验累积而已。在马萨诸塞州的欧林工学院(Olin College of Engineering)，学校管理者致力于确保女性学生占总人数一半。所有进入欧林的学生都要求在第一学期上一门机械课。从事生物物理和性别与科学研究的叶夫根尼娅·扎斯塔夫卡(Yevgeniya Zastavker)教授说：“每个人在实验室里都直面性别差异。我们把学生分配成男女混搭小组，让他们设计工具或产品。如果组里的性别氛围变得不和谐了，我们会进行干预，早期的干预能产生不可思议的巨大效果。”
Back at Yale, Urry laughed at my own stories of how inept I had been in lab — drizzling acid on my stockings, which dissolved and went up in smoke, getting hurled across the room by a shock from an ungrounded oscilloscope, not being able to replicate the Millikan oil-drop experiment. Even she had been a disaster in lab in college. Only when she took a more advanced lab and spent hours poring over a circuit diagram, figuring out that her fellow students had set up an experiment wrong, did she realize she knew as much as they did.
回到耶鲁，厄里笑话我讲述自己当年在实验室里多笨拙——把酸滴到长筒袜上，袜子溶解升腾起一股烟；被一个没有接地的示波器电飞到屋子的另一端；重复不出密立根油滴实验。即使是厄里，在大学实验室里也是一塌糊涂。直到她参加了高级实验课、花了几个小时钻研一份电路图，然后发现同学们设计的实验不正确时，她才意识到原来自己和别人懂得一样多。
“I’m soldering things, and I’m thinking, Hey, I’m really good at this. I know the principles. It’s like an art. It took me years to realize I’m actually good with my hands. I have all these small-motor skills from all the years I spent sewing, knitting and designing things. We should tell young women, ‘That stuff actually prepares you for working in a lab.’ ”
“我焊东西的时候想，嘿，我挺在行的啊，我了解原理。就跟手工艺一样。我花了好多年的时间认识到我手工操作能力实际上很好。从前多年的缝纫、编织和设计让我拥有了小的动作技巧。我们应该告诉年轻女性：‘那些东西其实为你进入实验室做好了准备。’”
As the Yale study laid bare — scientists of both sexes also need to realize that they can’t always see the way their bias affects their day-to-day lives. Abigail Stewart, director of the University of Michigan’s Advance program, which seeks to improve the lives of female and minority faculty members, told me in an e-mail that Handelsman’s study shakes the passionately held belief of most scientists that they are devoted to accurately identifying and nurturing merit in their students. “Evidence that we are not as likely to recognize and encourage talent (even modest talent, as in this study) shakes our confidence and (I hope) will make us more attentive to our limitations in recognizing talent where we don’t expect to find it.”
随着耶鲁研究的公开，男性和女性科学家都应该了解到他们常常意识不到自己的偏见影响着自己每天的生活。密歇根大学“促进”项目(Advance)主管阿比盖尔·斯图尔特(Abigail Stewart)力求改善女性和少数群体教师的生活质量。她在邮件中对我说，汉德尔斯曼的研究撼动了很多科学家抱有的“自己一直致力于准确识别并培养学生的优势”的坚定信念。“我们没有如自己想象那般能够认识并鼓励学生的天赋（即便是一般的天赋，像研究里说的），这样的证据动摇了我们的信心，（我希望）这能使我们更加注意自己的局限性：在不经意之处挖掘天才。”
Like Stewart, Urry thinks Handelsman’s study might catalyze the changes she has been agitating to achieve for years. “I’ve thought for a long time that understanding this implicit bias exists is critical. If you believe the playing field is equal, then any action you take is privileging women. But if you know that women are being undervalued, then you must do something, because otherwise you will be losing people who are qualified.”
就像斯图尔特一样，厄里认为汉德尔斯曼的研究也许能催化她多年以来迫切想实现的转变。“我琢磨了很久，接受这种隐晦偏见的存在是至关重要的。如果你觉得赛场是公平的，那么你的任何举措都在优待女性。但如果你知道女性是被低估了的，那你就必须做些什么，否则你将会失去够资格的人才。”
Most of all, we need to make sure that women — and men — don’t grow up in a society in which they absorb images of scientists as geeky male misfits. According to Catherine Riegle-Crumb, an associate professor at the University of Texas at Austin, gender differences in enrollment rates in high-school physics tend to be correlated with the number of women in the larger community who do or do not work in STEM fields. Handelsman, who is awaiting Senate confirmation as associate director of science in the White House Office for Science and Technology Policy, told me that she would love to see murals of women scientists painted on the walls of Yale’s classrooms, “say, a big mural with Rosalind Franklin in the front and Watson and Crick in tiny proportion in the back.”
最重要的是，我们需要避免女人——和男人——成长在给他们灌输“科学家是不合群的男性书呆子”的形象的社会里。德克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校(University of Texas at Austin)副教授凯瑟琳·里格尔-克拉姆(Catherine Riegle-Crumb)称，高中物理课男女注册情况的差别似乎和大范围内哪些女性从事STEM领域研究有关联。正等待参议院确定授予白宫科技政策办公室(White House Office for Science and Technology Policy)科学副主管一职的汉德尔斯曼告诉我，她希望在耶鲁教室的墙壁上看到女性科学家的壁画。“比如，与罗莎琳·富兰克林(Rosalind Franklin)的大壁画一起摆在前面，沃森(Watson)和克里克(Crick)的小壁画跟在后面。”
The good news is that, slowly and steadily, as more institutions acknowledge the bias against women and initiate programs to remedy it, real change is taking place. Peter Parker, who was director of undergraduate studies in physics when I was at Yale and for many years thereafter, told Urry that he wasn’t surprised that all the students and professors in the department were male. In his later years, Urry said, he would exclaim with glee that, say, 21 out of 49 of the physics majors in the junior class that year were women. Not long ago, Roger Howe wrote me to say that he’d had a gifted female student, would I get in touch with her to offer some advice and support? At M.I.T., 19 years after those three senior women began comparing their experiences and demanding changes, the university now has a significant number of female administrators. Day care is more readily available. Faculty members find it more acceptable to have children before they achieve tenure. And deans and department chairs seem committed to increasing the number of female professors.
好消息是，越来越多的研究机构承认女性受到歧视并启动了试图修补此问题的计划，实质性的变化正缓慢而平稳地发生。我上耶鲁时的物理本科生主管彼得·帕克(Peter Parker)在多年后曾对厄里说过，整个系的学生和教授都是男性，他觉得很正常。而再后来，厄里说，他高兴地宣扬，物理系49名大三学生中有21名女生。不久前，罗杰·豪给我写信讲述他有个特别聪明的女学生，问我能不能联系她，给些建议和支持。在那3名资深女教师开始比较个人经验并要求改变的19年后，麻省理工现在有了不少女性管理者；托儿所更加方便；女教授们现在觉得拿到终身教职之前生孩子也是不错的；系主任和院长也更注重增加女性教授的人数。
Urry, who stepped down as chairwoman of Yale’s physics department this summer but will soon be president of the American Astronomical Society, wonders if her department’s commitment to gender equality will continue or stall. One fall Friday, she invited me to attend a picnic the physics and astronomy departments were throwing to welcome back its graduate students and faculty. The professors were sipping wine from plastic cups and chatting with colleagues they hadn’t seen all summer. Hungry graduate students surveyed tables crowded with bowls of salad, barbecue fixings, pies, cakes and a plate of brownies that Urry’s husband baked that morning when he realized she had overslept. Four young women — one black, two white, one Asian by way of Australia — explained to me how they had made it so far when so many other women had given up.
厄里今年夏天从耶鲁的物理系系主任位置上退下来，很快将成为美国天文学会(American Astronomical Society)主席。她想知道系里对男女平等所做的努力会持续还是搁浅。一个秋日的星期五，她邀请我参加物理与天文系为欢迎研究生和教授回到学校举办的野餐会。教授们端着塑料杯子小啜着红酒，与一夏天没见面的同事聊天。饥饿的学生们在堆满沙拉、烧烤、派、蛋糕和布朗尼的桌子上寻寻觅觅。这盘布朗尼是厄里丈夫早上烤的，他发现厄里睡过头了。4名年轻女孩——一个黑人，两个白人和一个澳大利亚来的亚洲人向我解描述她们是如何在这么多女同学都放弃的情况下奋斗至今的。
“Oh, that’s easy,” one of them said. “We’re the women who don’t give a crap.”
“哦，很简单，”其中一个说，“我们就是那些不管不顾的女生。”
Don’t give a crap about — ?
“不管什么……？”
“What people expect us to do.”
“不管别人想让我们干什么。”
“Or not do.”
“或不干什么。”
“Or about men not taking you seriously because you dress like a girl. I figure if you’re not going to take my science seriously because of how I look, that’s your problem.”
“或者男人不跟你正经说话就因为你穿得像个女人。我觉得如果你因为我的外表而不把我的科研当回事，那是你有问题。”
“Face it,” one of the women said, “grad school is a hazing for anyone, male or female. But if there are enough women in your class, you can help each other get through.”
“接受现实，”一人说，“研究生就是做苦役，不论男女。但如果班里有足够多的女生，大家就能互相帮助渡过难关。”
The young black woman told me she did her undergraduate work at a historically black college, then entered a master’s program designed to help minority students develop the research skills and one-on-one mentoring relationships that would help them make the transition to a Ph.D. program. Her first year at Yale was rough, but her mentors helped her through. “As my mother always taught me,” she said, “success is the best revenge.”
年轻的黑人姑娘告诉我，她本科是在一个传统黑人学校上的，然后她读了专门为少数人种设计、提高研究技能、培养一对一指导以帮助其过渡到博士学习的硕士研究生项目。她在耶鲁的第一年太艰辛了，不过导师帮她渡过了这一关。她说：“就像我母亲常教我的，成功是最好的报复。”
As so many studies have demonstrated, success in math and the hard sciences, far from being a matter of gender, is almost entirely dependent on culture — a culture that teaches girls math isn’t cool and no one will date them if they excel in physics; a culture in which professors rarely encourage their female students to continue on for advanced degrees; a culture in which success in graduate school is a matter of isolation, competition and ridiculously long hours in the lab; a culture in which female scientists are hired less frequently than men, earn less money and are allotted fewer resources.
正如很多研究证明的：在数学和自然科学中获得成功，和性别根本没什么关系，完全取决于文化——当前的文化是：告诉女孩子学数学不够酷，物理学得好等于找不到男朋友；教授极少鼓励女学生继续深造；在研究生院取得成功意味着孤立、竞争、在实验室耗时良久；女性科学家比男性难找工作、挣得少、分配到的资源少。
And yet, as I listened to these four young women laugh at the stereotypes and fears that had discouraged so many others, I was heartened that even these few had made it this far, that theirs will be the faces the next generation grows up imagining when they think of a female scientist.
然而，听着4个年轻女孩嘲笑着曾让那么多女性气馁的陈词滥调与恐惧，我深受鼓舞。即便只有少数女性走到了这一步，她们也将是下一代人成长起来时看到女性科学家应有的样子。