KUNSHAN, China — For the last seven weeks I have been trying to send a postcard from this “smallish” city of nearly two million (counting migrant workers), where I have been teaching at Duke University’s just-opened China campus.
中国昆山——在过去七个星期里，我一直尝试从昆山这座人口近200万（包括外来劳工）的“小”城市寄出一张明信片。我执教于杜克大学(Duke University)在这里新开设的中国分校。
Kunshan is just west of Shanghai, in the heart of modernizing China. But finding a postcard, finding a stamp, getting that stamp to stick, finding a place to mail the postcard — even just getting anyone on this state-of-the-art campus to accept the idea of putting a letter in the mail — have proved a challenge, and not just because of my wobbly Chinese. In my travels to the tourist traps around Kunshan, I have seen exactly one Chinese person writing a postcard.
昆山在上海的西边，坐落于现代化中国的中心。不过，要想找到一张明信片、一枚邮票，给明信片贴上邮票，再找到一个能寄明信片的地方——甚至是让这座光鲜校园里的任何一个人接受邮寄书信这个想法——都是困难的，而这并不只是因为我的中文挺糟糕。在去昆山附近的多个热门景点旅游时，我只看见过一个中国人在写明信片。
I confess I am an outlier when it comes to letter writing. During a pre-Internet, pre-satellite-television Peace Corps tour in Africa, I learned to use an italic pen — the kind calligraphers use — and decent stationery to communicate with friends and family. The habit has stuck.
我承认，在手写书信方面，自己是个另类。在互联网和卫星电视都还不存在的年代，我跟随和平队(Peace Corps)去了一趟非洲，期间学会了如何使用斜体字钢笔——就是书法家用的那种笔——和像样的文具来与亲朋好友进行书信往来。这个习惯保持了下来。
But I’m not alone. For many Americans, sending a postcard from an exotic locale is still a mainstay of modern travel, if only to prove you actually went somewhere. It’s short and sweet, no heavy messaging required, the Twitter of a block-print age. And who doesn’t enjoy finding a handwritten missive among the supermarket fliers and other invasive species that swarm our mailboxes?
不过，我并不是唯一的手写爱好者。对于很多美国人来说，从异国他乡寄出一张明信片仍旧是当代旅行中的一桩大事，即便只是用来证明你真的到过那里。明信片内容简短亲切，无需传达繁复的讯息，是木版印刷时代的Twitter。要是在信箱里的一堆超市传单和其他扰人的东西中发现了一封手写函件，论谁都会很开心。
So shortly after arriving at Duke’s campus, which like everything within view is soaring and modern and brand new, I set out to find postcards to document our arrival. I thought I’d hit gold when I found a store in a nearby mini-mall that sold magazines and school supplies. But amid all the paper products on sale, there wasn’t a single postcard.
所以，到杜克大学昆山校区后不久，我就准备找明信片来记录我们的抵达。与映入眼帘的其他任何东西一样，这座校园房屋高耸，崭新而现代。当我在附近找到一家卖杂志和学校用品的小商店时，我以为自己能有所收获。可是在销售的各种纸质品中，连一张明信片都没有。
Ditto for the downtown warrens of small businesses. You want some L-shaped angle-iron brackets, for a little home project? Sure. French perfume? Check. A kilo bag of mung beans? No problem. But postcards? No way.
市区多如牛毛的小店里也是如此。想要买L形的角铁支架用来做点家居装饰？当然可以。法国香水？有的。一包一公斤的绿豆？没问题。但是明信片呢？没门。
Even the five-story bookstore was a miss. Glue sticks, recently translated inspirational books by Warren Buffett or a map of Kunshan (in Chinese only), but no postcards.
即使在五层楼高的书店里也见不到明信片的踪影。固体胶水、新近翻译的沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffet)的励志书，或者是昆山的地图（仅限中文版）都有得卖，唯独没有明信片。
My wife and I finally escaped from Kunshan on the ultramodern bullet train that whisked us at 200 miles an hour to Shanghai, a serious city of 14 million-plus that sees many more foreigners than Kunshan. And finally, pay dirt, of a sort: At our hotel the English-speaking concierge had his own secret cache of postcards, black-and-white period photos of old Shanghai. Not a wide selection, but who were we to be picky?
最后，妻子和我坐上了时速300公里的超现代高速列车，逃离昆山前往上海。这座大城市有1400多万人口，外国人也比昆山多很多。我们总算是行了大运：在我们住的酒店里，一名会说英语的礼宾员有一堆私藏的明信片，是老上海时期的黑白照片。虽然可选的不多，不过我们哪有资格去挑三拣四?
He even had the correct stamps and a pot of glue to affix them, since he warned us that Chinese stamp glue was notoriously unreliable. We bought a half-dozen cards, filled out three on the spot and gave them back to the concierge, because it wasn’t clear where we would mail them.
他甚至还有合适的邮票和一罐用来粘贴的胶水，因为他提醒我们，中国邮票上的胶水是出了名地不靠谱。我们买了半打卡片，当场填了三张，把它们托付给礼宾员，因为我们也不知道应该去哪里邮寄。
We did eventually find other postcards here and there. One nice collection was in the heart of the lakeside resort town of Hangzhou, where I saw that sole Chinese postcard writer at work.
后来，我们倒也在几处不同的地方找到了其他的明信片。湖畔旅游胜地杭州的中心就有一家很不错的明信片收藏。就是在那里，我见到了唯一一个在写明信片的中国人。
Hangzhou, about two hours southwest of Shanghai, is also the home of Alibaba, an online behemoth that dwarfs Amazon and is a symptom of the ballooning Chinese love affair with electrons. Even more than in the United States, people appear addicted to their smartphones. Waiting for the train home in the yawning ultramodern Hangzhou station, hundreds of faces basked in the cool blue light of an iPhone or Samsung. Not a pen was in sight.
杭州位于上海的西南方向，两地相距约两个小时的路程。杭州也是阿里巴巴的总部所在地。这是一家让亚马逊相形见绌的网络巨鳄，代表着中国人对电子时代与日俱增的迷恋。这里的人们对智能手机的沉溺度甚至超过了美国人。在规模宏大而又超级现代化的杭州车站，等候列车回家的成百上千张面孔埋头沉浸于iPhone或是三星手机屏幕的蓝色冷光中。我们的视线内看不到一支笔。
My students here have assured me that the postcard is not dead in China, just moribund. You could say the same in America. But the Chinese traditionally have revered handwritten communication. Just walk through the floors stuffed with centuries of pen-and-ink calligraphy in virtually any museum. And Chinese schoolchildren still spend hours copying characters that began life thousands of years before, when they were etched on the shells of turtles.
我的中国学生向我保证，明信片在中国并没有销声匿迹，只是处于逐渐衰退的状态。可以说美国也是如此。但是在传统上，中国推崇书面交流。到博物馆里走一走，基本上每一家都满满当当地陈列着好多个世纪的墨水书法作品。中国的学童仍在花大量的时间来临摹几千年前就出现的文字，而那个时候还是甲骨文。
That’s not to say that Chinese people don’t write anymore. But the relative rarity of the handwritten postcard here is symptomatic of a pell-mell rush toward a digital and depersonalized future. It seems sad to see the broad strokes of Chinese culture and communication shrunk to a 3-by-5-inch screen, and delicate brush lettering now reduced to pecking with two thumbs.
这并不是说中国人不再书写了。但是这里手写明信片的相对稀缺，意味着人们在一窝蜂地追求个性化缺失的数字化未来。看着丰富多彩的中华文化和交流方式退化成了3乘5英寸的屏幕，精妙的笔画字让位于两个拇指在键盘上的敲击，不免让人伤感。