WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama, after months of sitting on the sidelines of the rancorous contest to succeed him, is now ready to aggressively campaign for Hillary Clinton, starting with a formal endorsement of her candidacy as early as this week.
华盛顿——此前几个月里，在为接替自己而展开的这场恶战中，贝拉克·奥巴马总统一直在旁观。现在，他准备大力支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，最早将于本周正式宣布支持克林顿的候选资格。
The White House is in active conversations with Clinton’s campaign about how and where the president would be useful to her, according to senior aides to Obama.
据奥巴马的高级助手透露，白宫正在与克林顿的竞选团队积极沟通，了解奥巴马总统能以什么形式、在哪些方面帮助克林顿。
Advisers say that the president, who sees a Democratic successor as critical to his legacy, is impatient to begin campaigning. They say he is taking nothing for granted.
顾问称，奥巴马总统认为一个来自民主党的继任者对自己的政治遗产至关重要，迫不及待地想要开始助选。他们说他认为没有什么是十拿九稳的。
It has been decades since a second-term president enjoyed the popularity to make him a potent force on the campaign trail and also an invitation from the candidate running to succeed him to be a major presence there.
几十年来，这是第一次有总统在第二任期内仍保持高支持率，以至于可以在竞选中发挥巨大作用，并且还受到希望接替他的候选人的邀请，作为主要人物参与竞选。
Obama’s approval rating was at 50 percent in this month’s New York Times/CBS poll, and strategists close to Clinton said they would be eager to have his participation as the general election unfolds. (In contrast, President George W. Bush’s approval rating was at 20 percent in a Gallup poll just before the November 2008 election, and he rarely appeared that year with Sen. John McCain of Arizona, the Republican nominee.)
在《纽约时报》和CBS本月联合进行的民意调查中，奥巴马的支持率为50%，与克林顿关系密切的策略师表示，随着大选的开始，他们热切地希望奥巴马能参与进来。（相比之下，在2008年11月的选举前夕，乔治·W·布什[George W. Bush]总统在盖洛普[Gallup]进行的一场民调中支持率仅为20%，因此那一年他很少与共和党提名人选、亚利桑那州参议员约翰·麦凯恩[John McCain]一同现身。）
Obama is particularly enthusiastic, aides said, about taking on Donald Trump. The Republican candidate has personally offended the president with his conduct on the campaign trail — Trump referred to a black supporter on Friday in one of his crowds as “my African-American” — and as the most visible champion of the “birther” conspiracy theories that falsely hold that Obama was born in Kenya rather than Hawaii.
助手称，奥巴马对与唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)一决高 下特别有热情。这位共和党候选人在竞选期间的行为——特朗普周五称支持自己的人群中的一名黑人支持者为“我的非裔美国人”，再加上他作为“质疑出生地”阴谋论——错误地认为奥巴马出生在肯尼亚，而不是夏威夷——的最有名支持者，对奥巴马本人是一种冒犯。
Should Clinton do well enough in the primaries on Tuesday to give her sufficient delegates to claim the Democratic nomination, Obama is likely to move swiftly to make a case for her.
如果克林顿在周二的初选中表现优异，获得足够的代表人数，拿到民主党的提名，奥巴马可能会迅速行动起来支持她。
“He has indicated he wants to spend a lot of time on the campaign trail, so when it’s time to do that, we’ll go out guns ablazing,” Jennifer Psaki, Obama’s communications director, said in an interview. “We are actively thinking through how to use the president on the campaign trail — what works for the nominee, what works for him, and how to utilize his strengths and his appeal.”
“他已经表明希望在竞选上多花些时间，因此时机到来时，我们会全面出击，”奥巴马的公关负责人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)在接受采访时说。“我们正在积极思考如何在竞选活动中利用总统——提名人和总统分别适用什么方式，以及如何利用他的优势和吸引力。”
Jennifer Palmieri, Clinton’s communications director, said that Clinton hoped to earn Obama’s endorsement and his active participation in the campaign during the summer and fall.
克林顿的公关负责人珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)表示，克林顿希望赢得奥巴马的支持，并希望他能积极参与夏天和秋天的竞选。