While it may be easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven, it has long been thought easier for the rich man’s son or daughter to get into Harvard. Or Oxford.
据说骆驼穿过针眼，比富人进天堂还要来得容易，但富家子弟向来被认为更容易进入哈佛(Harvard)或牛津(Oxford)这样的名校。
But thanks to a new study by John Jerrim at the Institute of Education at the University of London we now know how much easier. At a time when governments on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean are increasingly facing questions about the widening gap between rich and poor, Dr. Jerrim studied access to high-status universities in Britain, the United States and Australia.
然而，拜伦敦大学(University of London)教育学院教授约翰·杰里姆(John Jerrim)一项最新研究所赐，我们现在知道这些学生究竟有多么容易进入名校。在大西洋两岸政府正越来越多地面临贫富差距日益扩大的问题之际，杰里姆博士对不同背景的学生进入英国、美国和澳大利亚名校的难易程度进行了一番深入研究。
“My background is economics, and if you look at the economics, kids that go to certain universities earn a premium on their wages during their working lives over and above the premium you get just by going to college,” Dr. Jerrim said. In the United States that premium is about 6 percent, he said.
“我是学经济学出身，就经济层面而言，上某些大学的孩子在其工作生涯中可以赚取高于普通院校毕业生的工资溢价，”杰里姆博士说。他说，在美国，这种溢价大约为6%。
“The other reason for looking at these particular universities is that they seem to influence access to certain jobs and to act as a signal to high-flying graduate recruiters,” he said. “If you take the job of being prime minister of Britain, for example, you almost have to have gone to Oxford.”
“关注这些特定大学的另一个原因是，它们似乎对你能否获得特定工作有一定影响，对于抱有雄心大志的毕业生招聘专员来说，这些大学的学位充当着信号的作用，”他说。“比方说，如果你竞争的职位是英国首相，你几乎肯定需要牛津大学的学位。”
Dr. Jerrim found that students whose parents come from a professional or managerial background are three times as likely to enter a high status university in Britain or Australia as students with working class parents. For the sake of the study a “high status” university in Britain was defined by membership in the Russell Group of large research institutions; in Australia the study looked at students attending the “Group of Eight” coalition of leading universities.
杰里姆博士发现，如果学生的父母具有专业或管理背景，他或她进入英国或澳大利亚一所“地位尊崇”大学的可能性，就是工薪家庭子女的3倍。为了方便研究，一所英国大学是否“地位尊崇”，取决于它是否加入了研究型大学联盟罗素大学集团(Russell Group)；在澳大利亚，这项研究的关注对象是进入顶级大学联盟“八校集团”(Group of Eight)的学生。
The same threefold advantage applied to students attending prestigious public universities in the United States — those described as “highly selective” by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, which rates schools based on the test scores of incoming students. At elite private American universities, moreover, students are six times as likely to come from a professional as a poor or working class background, Dr. Jerrim found.
3倍优势同样适用于美国著名公立大学，也就是那些被卡耐基教学促进基金会(Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching)形容为具有“高度筛选性”的大学——这家基金会基于入学新生的考试成绩给大学评级。此外，杰里姆博士发现，美国私立名校的学生出身于专业人士家庭的可能性，是来自贫穷或工薪家庭的可能性的6倍。
Social background has long been known to be highly correlated with academic achievement. Especially in the United States, where public schools are partly funded by local property taxes, students who attend schools in richer neighborhoods often outperform their peers from more disadvantaged areas. In Britain, too, both Oxford and Cambridge have long pointed to a dearth of students from poorer backgrounds who achieve the standard required in exams at the end of high school to be considered for admission to most courses at those universities. In 2008, among students whose family incomes were low enough to make them eligible for government-subsidized free school meals, only 232 students in the whole country received the exam grades needed to put them in contention for “Oxbridge” places.
人们早已知道，社会背景与学业成就高度相关。特别是在公立学校部分经费源自地方财产税的美国，相较于那些弱势地区的学生，富裕社区学生的成绩往往更胜一筹。英国亦是如此。牛津大学和剑桥大学早就指出，只有极少数寒门子弟的高中毕业考试成绩，被认为达到了研修这两所大学的大多数课程应该具备的水准。2008年，在家庭收入过低以至于有资格申领免费校餐的贫困学生中，全英国仅有232人获得了争夺“牛津剑桥”(Oxbridge)入场券所需的考试成绩。
Yet that seems to be only part of the story: Dr. Jerrim said he was surprised to discover a considerable gap in access to selective colleges and universities even after accounting for differences in academic performance as measured by grades or standardized tests.
然而，这似乎只是故事的一部分：杰里姆博士说，他非常惊讶地发现，甚至在考虑了通过成绩或标准化测试衡量的学业成就差异之后，贫困学生和富家子弟进入名牌高校的人数依然存在巨大差异。
“We looked at things like SAT scores and grade point average for American students, and G.C.S.E. and PISA scores in Britain,” he said. In Britain, students currently take G.C.S.E.s — national written examinations — between the ages of 15 and 16. The Program for International Student Assessment, or PISA, exams are standardized tests in math, science and reading administered to 15-year-olds by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or O.E.C.D.
“我们关注的是美国学生的SAT分数和平均绩点，以及英国学生的GCSE和PISA分数，”他说。在英国，15岁和16岁学生目前需要参加全国性笔试会考GCSE。PISA是经济合作与发展组织(OECD)面向15岁学生组织的国际学生评估项目，旨在通过标准化测试评估这些学生的数学、科学和阅读能力。
“When you take academic achievement into account you can explain some of the difference, but not all of it,” said Dr. Jerrim. In Australia, factors related to academic achievement explained about half the difference in access to the country’s elite universities; in Britain academic factors explained 73 percent of the difference. In American public universities 60 percent of the access gap between students from wealthy and disadvantaged backgrounds could be explained by academic factors, while in elite private American universities only 48 percent could be accounted for by differences in academic achievement.
“把学业成就考虑进去后，可以解释一些差异，但不是全部，”杰里姆博士说。在澳大利亚，与学业成就相关的因素解释了该国精英大学录用不同背景学生大约一半的差异；在英国，学术因素解释了73%的差异。在美国，学术因素解释了公立大学录取富裕和弱势背景学生60%的差异，但就私立名校而言，这种因素只能解释48%的差异。
“What this means is that there are significant numbers of working class children who, even though they have the academic credentials to be admitted to elite colleges, are either not being admitted or choosing not to apply,” he said.
“这意味着，有相当多工薪阶层子弟即使拥有被名牌大学录取的学术资质，他们也没有被录取，或者压根没有申请这些院校，”他说。
Dr. Jerrim’s report was published by the Sutton Trust, a British educational charity that focuses on social mobility.
以关注社会流动性著称的英国教育慈善机构萨顿信托基金会(Sutton Trust)，发布了这份由杰里姆博士主持的研究报告。
“What John has shown is that if you look at academic achievement, there should be far more kids from lower income backgrounds going to top universities,” Sir Peter Lampl, the organization’s chairman, said in a telephone interview. “Here in Britain there should be another 3,000 going. And the main reason they aren’t is that they just don’t apply.”
“约翰的研究已经表明，从学业成绩来看，进入顶尖大学的低收入背景学生本应比现在多得多，”该组织主席彼得·兰普尔(Peter Lampl)爵士在接受电话采访时说。“在英国，本应该还有3000名贫困学生进入名校。没有被录取的主因是，他们根本就没有申请。”
According to Mr. Lampl, “working class kids feel the admissions procedures are rigged against them.”
兰普尔声称，“工薪家庭的孩子觉得，这些名校的录取程序被蓄意操纵，对他们很不利。”
While many British universities rely solely on test scores and grades, both Oxford and Cambridge interview candidates, and the interviews are often rigorous — a form of oral examination.
虽然许多英国大学仅仅依靠考试分数和等级决定录取人选，但牛津大学和剑桥大学往往对申请人进行面试，而这种面试其实是一种口试，通常非常严格。
“At private schools they practice endlessly for these things. Students at state schools haven’t had that preparation — and in many cases they just don’t want to put themselves through it,” Mr. Lampl said, adding that such students “also worry that even if they do get in they won’t fit in.”
兰普尔先生说，“私立学校的学生无休止地练习这些东西。公立学校的学生则没有做过这样的准备——许多学生其实根本就不想经受这种考验。”他还认为，这些学生也担心，“即使他们最终进入了名校，他们也无法真正融入。”
Asked about the policy implications of his research, Dr. Jerrim called for a twin-track approach.
被问及这项研究的政策含义时，杰里姆博士呼吁采取一种双轨制招录方式。
“The main focus for governments should be on improving achievement for poorer students,” he said. “But the fact that there is still this gap suggests that there are also measures schools and universities can take, such as identifying qualified students and encouraging them to raise their aspirations, and using contextual information to give students from disadvantaged backgrounds a fair chance.”
“政府的重点工作应该放在提高贫困学生的成绩上面，”他说。“但现实情况是，差距依然存在，由此可以看出，学校和大学依然可以有所作为，比如确认合格的学生，鼓励他们提升自己的愿望，并利用关联信息给予弱势背景学生一个公平的机会。”
His emphasis on improving schools was echoed by Andreas Schleicher, the O.E.C.D.’s deputy director of education. Noting that the latest PISA results will be released on Dec. 3, Dr. Schleicher said: “There is no question that, in many countries, children from privileged backgrounds have a much greater chance to enter prestigious universities.”
经合组织教育事务副主管安德里亚斯·施莱谢尔(Andreas Schleicher)也认同这种重点从学校着手的观点。施莱谢尔指出，最新的PISA结果已于12月3日发布，“毫无疑问，在许多国家，家境优渥的学生进入名牌大学的几率要大得多。”
“But our data also show that in those countries, success in school is closely related to the social background of students,” he added. “One of the most interesting findings from PISA is that with the right mix of high expectations and individualized support, students from all social backgrounds can do well.”
“但我们的数据还显示，在这些国家，学校的成功与学生的社会背景密切相关，”他补充说。“从PISA结果中，我们可以发现许多颇有意思的现象。比如说，高期望值和个性化支持的恰当结合，可以助推各种社会背景的学生走向成功。”
Mr. Lampl called on British universities to end their current system of pre-qualification admissions, under which the universities offer conditional places to students before they do their final exams, basing the offer on their predicted, rather than their actual, final grades. “I think the whole system stinks,” he said.
兰普尔先生呼吁英国大学结束目前实行的资格预审招生体制。根据这种制度安排，在一些学生参加高中毕业考试之前，大学依据他们预测的，而不是实际考试的最终成绩，为这些学生提供附带条件的录取名额。“我认为，这套体系烂透了，实在恶心，”他说。
Until the admissions system is reformed, he added, “I think more kids from Britain should be thinking about studying in the U.S.”
“我认为，更多的英国孩子应该考虑去美国读书，”除非英国大学改变这种招生体制，他补充说。
The final section of Dr. Jerrim’s report contrasted the “sticker price” of attending Harvard, Oxford, the London School of Economics (L.S.E.), the University of Michigan and the University of Melbourne, with the real net cost of attending each school based on different levels of parental income.
在这份报告的最后一节，杰里姆博士针对哈佛大学、牛津大学、伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)、密歇根大学(University of Michigan)和墨尔本大学(University of Melbourne)的就读“标价”，和基于父母收入的不同层次，上这些大学的实际净成本进行了一番对比。
At $52,652 for tuition, room and board, Harvard has the highest sticker price, with Melbourne, at about $38,500, a distant second.
哈佛大学的标价最高，其学费和食宿费用高达52652美元，墨尔本大学以38500美元的标价遥居第二。
But for students from low-income backgrounds Harvard is by far the cheapest. A British student whose family income is below 10,000 pounds a year, or $16,300 — the cutoff for free school meals — would be expected to pay £3,550 a year to attend Oxford, but only £865 to go to Harvard.
但迄今为止，对于低收入家庭学生来说，哈佛大学反而是最便宜的。一位家庭年收入低于1万英镑（约合16300美元，申领免费校餐的家庭收入最高值）的英国学生，每年预计需要支付3550英镑上牛津大学，而如果上哈佛大学的话，只需支付865美元。
In sterling terms, a student whose family income is £27,500 would pay £13,200 to attend the L.S.E., £11,300 to go to Oxford and the equivalent of about £2,000 at Harvard, less than the £4,700 that Dr. Jerrim estimated for in-state students from a similar background at the University of Michigan.
以英镑计算，一个家庭收入为27500英镑的学生，上伦敦政治经济学院需要支付13200英镑，上牛津需要支付11300英镑，而上哈佛大学只需花费大约2000英镑，比密歇根州相似背景学生上密歇根大学的花费还要低，据杰里姆博士估计，后者的上学费用为4700英镑。
“The generous aid available even to international students should make U.S. universities an extremely attractive option,” Mr. Lampl said.
“这种甚至连国际学生都可获取的慷慨援助，理应使得美国大学成为极具吸引力的求学选项，”兰普尔说。