PHOENIX — “Donald!” cried a woman in the front row at the Arizona Republican Party headquarters on Monday night. On the large TV screen before her, Donald J. Trump strode out to do battle with Hillary Clinton. Among the 84 million people tuned in to the first presidential debate of the general election, the crowd in Phoenix was primed for a gladiatorial contest.
菲尼克斯——周一晚上，在亚利桑那州共和党总部，坐在前排的一名女子高喊着“唐纳德！”在她前面的电视大屏幕上，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)迈着大步出场，即将与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)较量一番。在观看本轮大选首场总统辩论的8400万人中，菲尼克斯的这一群人为一场大战做好了准备。
They played their role with gusto: hissing, guffawing or cackling when Mrs. Clinton spoke; whooping and air-punching for Mr. Trump. Ronald Reagan, the patron saint of modern Republicanism, grinned from a framed portrait in the corner. Pizza was served.
他们热情地扮演着自己的角色：在克林顿讲话时喝倒彩、哄笑或是嘎嘎大笑；为特朗普振臂疾呼。房间的一角挂着一幅镶框的画像，现代共和主义的守护神罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)在画中露齿而笑。披萨已经摆好。
It seemed as good of a place as any to ask a question that has baffled so many observers outside the United States: Why do so many Americans support Mr. Trump?
这里似乎是最适合提一个问题的地方：为什么有这么多美国民众支持特朗普？这个问题让国外的不少观察人士困惑不已。
Readers emailing from abroad are surprised by the campaign’s bluster, insults and prevarications. They don’t understand how a race for the American presidency can be dominated by arguments over missing emails, “birtherism” and beauty queens.
海外读者纷纷来信表示，本次竞选的狂妄、侮慢与搪塞让他们感到惊讶。他们不明白，一场关于美国总统宝座的竞逐，为什么会围绕消失的邮件、“身世论”和选美冠军展开喋喋不休的争吵。
Across the United States, though, the campaign is about much more than that. I’ve spent the past 10 days talking to Trump supporters, looking for answers.
然而在美国各地，这场竞选的内容远不仅限于此。为了寻找答案，过去10天里，我一直在和特朗普的支持者交谈。
Arizona, with its searing deserts and saw-toothed mountains, has long been a Republican bastion, a place of conservative-leaning politics and liberal gun laws. The state’s most prominent Trump advocate is Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, who became notorious for his intolerance of unauthorized immigrants and making prison inmates wear pink underwear.
有着炎热的沙漠和起伏的山峦的亚利桑那州，一直以来都是一座共和党堡垒，一个践行保守政治和自由枪支法律的地方。该州最知名的特朗普拥趸是马里科帕县治安官乔·阿帕尤(Joe Arpaio)，此人因严控非法移民、让囚犯穿着粉色内衣而恶名远扬。
At the debate party in Phoenix, the largely white crowd was seized by a palpable air of anticipation. After a sharp dip in August, Mr. Trump was suddenly riding high again in the polls. Could he pull ahead of Mrs. Clinton?
在菲尼克斯的辩论聚会上，明显能感觉到以白人为主的与会者在期待着什么。经过八月的暴跌后，特朗普的民调数据突然又开始上扬了。他能赶超克林顿吗？
The first thunderclap of applause erupted when Mr. Trump said that Mrs. Clinton has been “doing this for 30 years,” with little to show for her efforts. But as the debate wore on, and Mr. Trump’s energy started to flag, so too did the atmosphere in the room. Onscreen, Mrs. Clinton grew in confidence, unleashing a volley of attack lines. As Mr. Trump struggled to respond, the crowd in Arizona lapsed into ever longer silences.
当特朗普说克林顿“已经干了30年”却没什么成果的时候，全场第一次爆发出热烈掌声。但是随着辩论的进行，特朗普的气势走弱，现场因此也有些冷清。电视画面上，克林顿越来越有信心，发起了一连串的攻击。特朗普疲于应付，亚利桑那的人群陷入了长久的沉默。
A supporter of Mr. Trump in the crowd who refused to be identified, citing unspecified threats from Clinton loyalists, said he didn’t expect his candidate to be as polished as a professional politician. He was willing to take the brash Mr. Trump as is, he said.
其中一位支持者拒绝透露姓名，表示原因是来自克林顿拥趸的威胁——具体什么威胁没有明说——他说他并不指望自己支持的候选人像个职业政治家那样光洁无暇。他愿意接受特朗普的这种大剌剌的本色。
Others at the viewing party said they were worried by Mr. Trump’s performance. Kathy Manie, wearing a red “Make America Great Again” hat, said she was disappointed that Mr. Trump appeared ill-prepared for Mrs. Clinton’s rehearsed barbs. “He could have spoken more eloquently,” she said. “Hillary knew exactly how to taunt him, and he fell for the bait. He gave as much as he got, but I wish his words were stronger.”
还有几个参加聚会的人说，特朗普的表现让他们有些担心。戴着一顶“让美国恢复伟大荣光”帽的凯西·玛尼(Kathy Manie)说，让她失望的是特朗普对克林顿精心排练过的攻击似乎缺乏准备。“他的表达应该可以更流畅的，”她说。“希拉里很清楚该如何嘲弄他，而他上钩了。他尽了全力，但我希望他的言语能更强势一些。”
Ms. Manie was not the prototypical Trump supporter. Born in Trinidad, she immigrated to the United States more than two decades ago, at 21. She is a social worker and a committed Christian, and she said that she was praying for Mr. Trump to win.
玛尼并非典型的特朗普支持者。她出生在特立尼达，20多年前移民到美国，当时她21岁。她是一名社会服务工作者，一个虔诚的基督徒，她说她在祈祷特朗普获胜。
“I can’t stand another four years of a Democrat running this country,” she said, but she worried the forces of history were pulling against her preference. “We’re at a time when the world seems to want a woman president.”
“再来一个民主党当道的四年，我可受不了，”她说，但是她担心历史不站在她这一边。“我们正处在一个全世界都似乎想要一个女总统的时代。”
Some Trump supporters are less forthcoming. Last week in Houston, I was ejected from a Trump event hosted by an anti-immigration group that objected to my attempts to interview their supporters. Before I was asked to leave, a Trump supporter sidled up, making pointed comments to me about “snakes in the grass that bite people.”
有些特朗普支持者不太愿意配合采访。上周在休斯顿，我被一个反移民团体主办的特朗普活动逐出了会场，主办方不同意我采访他们的支持者。在被要求离场前，一个特朗普支持者悄悄走上来，直截了当地说我是“躲在草丛里咬人的蛇”。
Days later, at a county fair in southern Arizona, representatives of a local gun club refused point blank to speak to me. The only quote came from their T-shirts, which read: “Hillary For Prison.”
几天后，在亚利桑那州南部一个县的集市上，当地一家枪械俱乐部的代表断然拒绝接受我的采访。唯一一句引语来自他们的T恤，上面写着：“希拉里进监狱。”
Yet many other voters were more thoughtful about their support for Mr. Trump. On Sunday, I went to see Dan Bell, a cattle rancher who lives on the Arizona border with Mexico, and whose land is frequently trespassed by migrants and drug smugglers. Mr. Bell was a classic rancher: a burly man with blue eyes, in a cowboy hat, quietly forthright. For him, Mr. Trump represents urgently needed change.
然而也有许多选民是经过深思熟虑后决定支持特朗普的。周日，我去探望了养牛场场主丹·贝尔(Dan Bell)，他生活在亚利桑那州的墨西哥边境附近，他的土地频频有移民和毒贩闯入。贝尔是个典型的牧场主：身形魁梧，有一对蓝眼睛，戴着牛仔帽，为人低调，待人坦率。对他来说，特朗普代表着亟待进行的变革。
“Sure, there’s been things I wish he hadn’t said,” he told me as we bumped along the border in his Jeep, rain spitting against the windshield. “But this country needs a course correction. He’s been successful in business. We need to get the career politicians out.”
“当然，他的某些话，我是希望他别说的，”在他说这番话时，我们正坐在他的吉普里，冒着大雨沿边境线行驶。“但是这个国家需要修正一下路线。他是个成功的商人。我们需要把那些职业政客赶出去。”
That is a common sentiment among Trump supporters: Their man fuses a potent anti-establishment vim with a certain brand of American authenticity. They may not agree with all of his more lurid attacks — although some clearly do — but they see in him the archetype of a successful if boastful businessman. To them he is someone whose words are to be taken with a pinch of salt.
这是特朗普支持者的一个普遍看法：他们的候选人将一股反抗当权者的强大力量和某种纯正美国属性结合了起来。他们对他的那些骇人听闻的言论不见得都认同——虽然有些人显然很认同——但在他的身上，他们看到了一个成功但又爱自夸的商人典型。在他们眼里，这个人说的话是不可尽信的。
Mr. Trump seems to have been stung by Monday’s debate, which was widely seen as a victory for Mrs. Clinton. Lashing out, he has blamed his performance on the debate moderator’s bias and a defective microphone, and threatened to turn Bill Clinton’s marital infidelity into an issue in the next debate, scheduled for Oct. 9 in St. Louis.
人们普遍认为克林顿是周一那场辩论的赢家，这似乎刺痛了特朗普。他为此大放厥词，说他的表现不好是因为辩论主持人的偏见，以及话筒有故障。他还威胁，在10月9日圣路易斯的第二次辩论中，要拿比尔·克林顿的不忠行为说事。
Conventional political wisdom has it that Mr. Trump’s mercurial debate performance, while pleasing to his core supporters, did little to persuade other demographics, like women and college-educated whites, whose support he desperately needs. Mainstream Republicans are shunning him.
按照政界的通常看法，特朗普的这种不稳定的辩论表现，虽然能让核心支持者满意，却是不足以说服其他群体的，比如女性和受过大学教育的白人，而他急需要得到这些人的支持。主流共和党人也不接受他。
On Tuesday, The Arizona Republic, which has never endorsed a Democrat for president since it started publishing in 1890, formally declared for Mrs. Clinton. “The 2016 Republican candidate is not conservative and he is not qualified,” the paper said.
周二，自1890年创刊以来从未给民主党候选人背书的《亚利桑那共和报》(The Arizona Republic)正式宣布支持克林顿。“2016年的共和党候选人不是保守派，也不具备资格，”该报称。
But the conventional wisdom has been wrong so many times in this election that only the foolish would dismiss Mr. Trump.
但在这次选举中，通常的看法一再被证明是错误的，因此只有傻子才会轻视特朗普。
As people filed out of the debate party on Monday night in Phoenix, Phil Lovas, a member of the Arizona House of Representatives who heads the state Trump campaign, urged them to take home a Trump yard sign. “We’ve got 43 days until we elect President Trump,” he said. “We need your help.”
周一晚上在菲尼克斯的辩论聚会上，亚利桑那州众议院议员菲尔·洛瓦斯(Phil Lovas)在劝说散场的人们带一个特朗普的草坪标语牌回家。“距离我们选出特朗普总统还有43天，”这位特朗普在本州的竞选活动负责人说。“我们需要大家的帮助。”
The man seated beside me, who had been silent for much of the debate, piped up. “President Trump,” he repeated, speaking the words in a low murmur, as if testing them out to see how they might sound.
坐在我旁边的一个全程基本上沉默的男人此刻也吆喝起来。“特朗普总统，”他反复用一种低沉的音调说着这几个字，仿佛是在测试它们听起来效果如何。