Recently, The Art Newspaper reported that Pei-Shen Qian had some of his paintings included in a group exhibition in a Shanghai gallery last spring. Scandal-following readers will recognize the name as that of a Chinese artist, once living in Queens, whose imitations of paintings by Pollock, de Kooning and other Abstract Expressionists were sold as real for millions of dollars by the New York gallery Knoedler & Company, now defunct.
《艺术新闻》(Art Newspaper)前不久报道，去年春天在一家上海画廊举办的集体展览中，钱培琛展出了自己的一些作品。关注丑闻的读者们可能会记得这位中国画家的名字。他曾经居住在皇后区，其模仿波洛克(Pollock)、德库宁(de Kooning)等抽象表现主义艺术家的作品被诺德勒画廊(Knoedler & Company)作为真迹售出，售价高达数百万美元。这家画廊目前已停业。
In China, where he regularly returned for extended visits after moving to New York in 1981, Mr. Pei-Shen, 73, is known for his own paintings. He first emerged as an artist in the late 1970s, one of a group producing and exhibiting abstract work, which Cultural Revolution authorities deemed bourgeois and decadent. In 2006, he had a 25-year retrospective at the BB Gallery in Shanghai. Some of his works are posted on various websites. Naturally, you wonder, are Mr. Pei-Shen’s own paintings any good? Would I like to review them, my editor asked?
自1981年移居纽约以来，他经常回到中国探亲，每次探亲时间都很长。现年73岁的钱培琛是位有着一定知名度的画家。他作为一名画家崭露头角是在上世纪70年代，当时他是一个创作和展出抽象作品的团队的成员。而这些作品被文革时期的当权者认为是走资产阶级路线，而且颓废堕落。2006年，他在上海的BB画廊举办了25周年回顾展。他的一些作品被发布在各种网站上。你肯定想知道，钱培琛自己的作品画得怎么样？我的编辑也问我，愿意评论这些画吗？
I can’t, in good conscience, review works I’m able to see only online. But I can say, provisionally, that I’m struck by the absence of any singular vision among his pieces. My laptop screen shows earnestly made, colorful landscapes and cityscapes that evoke early Post-Impressionist paintings by Matisse and André Derain. Some mixed-media works represent faceless women in a style that hybridizes classical Chinese painting and early-20th-century Cubism, made on what appear to be surfaces of patched-together burlap.
凭良心说，我不能对只在网上看到过的作品加以评论。但我可以说，目前来看，令我印象深刻的是，他的作品中缺少一个突出的理念。我的笔记本电脑屏幕上显示着这些兢兢业业创作的、色彩丰富的自然风景和城市风光画，它们让人联想起马蒂斯(Matisse)和安德烈·德林(André Derain)的早期后印象派画作。一些混合媒介的作品描绘了一些面目不清的女性，其风格糅合了古典中国画和20世纪初的立体派，而且似乎是在粗麻布拼接的表面上绘制的。
A picture of a horse including stenciled white letters spelling “This is not a horse” echoes Magritte’s painting of a pipe captioned “Ceci n’est pas une pipe” (“This is not a pipe”). Several paintings are of large, generalized heads rendered in a soupy, Expressionist manner.
其中的一幅画的是一匹马，上面用模板印刷了一行白色字迹，写着，“这不是一匹马”，这是在模仿马格里特(Magritte)的一幅烟斗画，这幅画上的说明是“Ceci n’est pas une pipe”（这不是一个烟斗）。有几幅是以浓重的表现主义手法绘制的抽象的巨大头像。
Nostalgia seems to be the unifying mood of Mr. Pei-Shen’s paintings. That, alone, is remarkable, because the European works that evidently inspired him were revolutionary in their time. The kind of painting he emulates in his own work and the Abstract Expressionist paintings on which he has based his imitations both depended on originality and expressive authenticity, as opposed to academic tradition and technical polish. Yet Mr. Pei-Shen seems to be the opposite of original.
怀旧感似乎是钱培琛画作的普遍基调。只这一点值得注意，因为他的灵感明显来自于一些欧洲作品，而这些欧洲画作在当时都是具有革命性的。他在自己的作品中所模仿的画作，以及他仿造的抽象表现主义画作，都以原创性和表现主义的真实性著称，而不是学术传统和技术上的润色。然而，钱培琛显然与原创二字背道而驰。
I suppose he works in styles he loves without worrying about whether they’re outmoded. Unless there’s something going on that can’t be seen in online images, it seems unlikely that Mr. Pei-Shen’s personal paintings will cause anything like the stir his imitations have.
我认为，钱培琛只是以他喜爱的风格进行创作，并不担心这些风格是否已经过时。除非画上的有些特点在网上显示不出来，否则钱培琛的个人画作不太可能像他的模仿作品那样，引起同样的轰动。
That is disappointing but not surprising. I like the fantasy of the unjustly neglected genius who gets revenge on the art world by making expert-fooling works that mimic the style of famous painters. (Mr. Pei-Shen has not been charged with any crime related to the scandal.) But I think it more likely that the typical copyist will be relatively lacking in originality. Copyists need to be able to muffle their own creative selves, and if those creative selves are weak, all the better.
这虽然令人失望，但也是意料之中。我喜欢这样的传奇故事：被忽视的天才模仿著名画家风格的作品，让专家们难辨真伪，以此来报复艺术界。（钱培琛还没有受到任何与丑闻有关的刑事指控。）但是我认为，更有可能的是，这位典型的模仿者相对来说缺乏创造力。模仿者需要能够抑制他们有创造性的自我，这些有创造性的自我越弱越好。
What they need in abundance are technical knowledge and skill. It’s not easy to make forgeries. However hard it was for Barnett Newman to produce one of his zip paintings, making a convincing fake Newman — reverse-engineering it, in effect, as well as making it look appropriately aged — surely will be more demanding technically, if not spiritually.
他们需要的是大量技术知识和技巧。制作赝品并不容易。无论巴内特·纽曼(Barnett Newman)创作他的一幅拉链画作是多么艰难，制作一幅以假乱真的纽曼画作的仿制品——对其作品进行倒序制造，同时还要让它看起来年代相仿——在技术上一定有着更高的要求，甚至还有对灵性的要求。
Mr. Pei-Shen’s creations, which were not copies of actual works but in the style of famous artists, intrigue me more than his personal work, but not for technical reasons. They raise interesting philosophical questions: Why should we value a painting known to be made by a certain esteemed artist more than a painting that is phony but is nevertheless practically indistinguishable from the authentic work? Why is a real Motherwell worth millions of dollars more than a fake one that looks just as good?
钱培琛以著名艺术家的风格创作的作品——不是真迹的仿制品，比他个人的创作更令我好奇，但这却不是因为技术上的原因。它们引发了有趣的哲学问题：我们为什么更看重有一定名气的艺术家已知的作品，而不是一幅与原作基本并无二致的赝品？为什么马瑟韦尔的一幅真迹价值数百万美元，而一幅看起来同样很棒的赝品却没有太大价值？
The dynamics of supply and demand are what make any artwork worth its price. Real things are worth more than fake ones simply because they are more rare.
供应和需求的动态关系让一副画作的价值和价格相匹配。真迹的价值之所以高于赝品，原因很简单，就是因为它们更加稀缺。
Demand is more fluid and variable than supply because it’s influenced by vagaries of taste and fashion; it’s less rational. Demand is partly animated by some quasi-magical beliefs about art and artists, like the idea that there’s a sort of organic connection between artists and the things they make. The artist’s soul is somehow in the work, and because great artists are supposed to have great souls, there’s more soul in their creations than there is in mediocre efforts.
与供应相比，需求更加易变和无常，因为它受到品味和潮流的影响，而这些是难以预测的；它不是那么理性。需求在一定程度上受到一些关于艺术和艺术家的近乎不真实的想法的驱动，比如，艺术家和他们创作的东西之间存在一种有机的联系。艺术家的精神存在于其作品中，因为伟大的艺术家应该有伟大的灵魂，他们的作品比平庸的作品有更多内涵。
From there, it’s a short leap of faith to the belief that market valuation reflects soul value — not perfectly, but at least roughly and in the long term. The most expensive works have the most soul. That’s why, if you can afford it, you buy the real Motherwell. There’s no magic, no soul, in fake artworks, so they are worth less, if not completely worthless.
因此，很容易衍生出这样一种看法，即市场价值反映了内涵的价值——并非完全对等，但至少基本上、从长期来看是这样。最昂贵的作品拥有最大的内涵。这就是为什么，如果你买得起，你会买马瑟韦尔(Motherwell)的真迹。在赝品中，没有幻想，没有内涵，所以他们的价值要少一些，甚至完全一文不值。
Mr. Pei-Shen told Bloomberg Businessweek that he thought he was being commissioned to make paintings for art lovers who could not afford the genuine works but were willing to buy imitations. I don’t know if such people really exist, but Mr. Pei-Shen seems to have thought they did. He didn’t imagine that there was anything ethically or legally wrong with what he was doing. He was a copyist but not a forger, if intention to deceive is part of the definition of a forger.
钱培琛告诉《彭博商业周刊》(Bloomberg Businessweek)，他原以为，他的画是卖给那些买不起真迹，但愿意买仿制品的艺术爱好者的。我不知道这样的人是否真的存在，但钱培琛似乎认为存在。他没有想到他的做法存在道德上或法律上的不当之处。如果造假的定义中包括以欺骗为目的的前提，那么他就是一个模仿者，而不是一个造假者。