On the evening of April 8, 1999, a long line of Town Cars and taxis pulled up to the Minneapolis headquarters of Pillsbury and discharged 11 men who controlled America’s largest food companies. Nestlé was in attendance, as were Kraft and Nabisco, General Mills and Procter & Gamble, Coca-Cola and Mars. Rivals any other day, the C.E.O.’s and company presidents had come together for a rare, private meeting. On the agenda was one item: the emerging obesity epidemic and how to deal with it. While the atmosphere was cordial, the men assembled were hardly friends. Their stature was defined by their skill in fighting one another for what they called “stomach share” — the amount of digestive space that any one company’s brand can grab from the competition.
1999年4月8日傍晚，一长列豪华轿车和出租车停在了必百瑞(Pillsbury)明尼苏达总部的大门前。11位掌控着美国最大型食品公司的男士走下车来——雀巢(Nestlé)、卡夫(Kraft)、纳贝斯克(Nabisco)、通用磨坊(General Mills)、宝洁(Procter & Gamble)、可口可乐(Coca-Cola)和玛氏(Mars)的总裁全都来了。平常无时无刻不在明争暗斗的他们是前来出席一个少见的关门会议的。会议安排只有一项：如何应对美国越来越严重的流行性肥胖。尽管会议气氛真诚而热情，但是总裁们绝非彼此的朋友。他们的声望是由争夺“胃容量占有率”——每个公司的产品所获得客户消化系统空间的能力来定义的。
James Behnke, a 55-year-old executive at Pillsbury, greeted the men as they arrived. He was anxious but also hopeful about the plan that he and a few other food-company executives had devised to engage the C.E.O.’s on America’s growing weight problem. “We were very concerned, and rightfully so, that obesity was becoming a major issue,” Behnke recalled. “People were starting to talk about sugar taxes, and there was a lot of pressure on food companies.” Getting the company chiefs in the same room to talk about anything, much less a sensitive issue like this, was a tricky business, so Behnke and his fellow organizers had scripted the meeting carefully, honing the message to its barest essentials. “C.E.O.’s in the food industry are typically not technical guys, and they’re uncomfortable going to meetings where technical people talk in technical terms about technical things,” Behnke said. “They don’t want to be embarrassed. They don’t want to make commitments. They want to maintain their aloofness and autonomy.”
55岁的必百瑞总裁詹姆斯·本克(James Behnke)迎接了每一位与会者。本克与其他一些食品公司的高管共同计划了这次会议，请食品公司总裁来商议出解决美国人体重问题的对策，本克对计划虽有些焦虑但仍抱有希望。“我们很担心，也确实应该担心，肥胖成了大问题，”本克回忆道，“人们已经开始讨论征收糖类消费税，这给食品业很大压力。”即便主题没这么敏感，让一群公司首脑聚在一起讨论问题都是个麻烦的事情。所以本克及共同主办人谨慎地为会议挑选词汇，将信息简化到最精髓。“食品业的总裁们一般都不是技术人员，他们不愿意去那种有技术人员使用术语大谈技术的会议，”本克说，“他们不愿让自己尴尬，不想做承诺，就希望维持骄傲和自主权。”
A chemist by training with a doctoral degree in food science, Behnke became Pillsbury’s chief technical officer in 1979 and was instrumental in creating a long line of hit products, including microwaveable popcorn. He deeply admired Pillsbury but in recent years had grown troubled by pictures of obese children suffering from diabetes and the earliest signs of hypertension and heart disease. In the months leading up to the C.E.O. meeting, he was engaged in conversation with a group of food-science experts who were painting an increasingly grim picture of the public’s ability to cope with the industry’s formulations — from the body’s fragile controls on overeating to the hidden power of some processed foods to make people feel hungrier still. It was time, he and a handful of others felt, to warn the C.E.O.’s that their companies may have gone too far in creating and marketing products that posed the greatest health concerns.
本克是名化学家，拥有食品科学博士学位。他于1979年成为必百瑞的首席技术官，发明过一系列拳头产品，包括可微波爆米花。他非常热爱必百瑞公司。然而近年来，那些被糖尿病、早期高血压和早期心脏病病征所折磨的肥胖儿童的照片愈发困扰着他。在组织总裁会议的几个月前，本克与一些食品学专家进行过谈话。有关人们应付食品配方的能力——从对暴饮暴食的脆弱自控力，到某些加工食品能让人永远吃不够的隐秘力量，专家描绘了一副日趋惨淡的画面。本克他们感到，现在正是提出警告的时候。要让食品公司的主管知道自己在创造和推销有严重健康隐患的产品这方面做得太过分了。
• ‘In This Field, I’m a Game Changer.’
“在这个领域，我是游戏规则改变者。”
• ‘Lunchtime Is All Yours’
“午餐时间全是你的。”
• ‘It’s Called Vanishing Caloric Density.’
“这被叫做消失的卡路里密度。”
• ‘These People Need a Lot of Things, but They Don’t Need a Coke.’
“这些人需要很多东西，但不是可乐。”
The discussion took place in Pillsbury’s auditorium. The first speaker was a vice president of Kraft named Michael Mudd. “I very much appreciate this opportunity to talk to you about childhood obesity and the growing challenge it presents for us all,” Mudd began. “Let me say right at the start, this is not an easy subject. There are no easy answers — for what the public health community must do to bring this problem under control or for what the industry should do as others seek to hold it accountable for what has happened. But this much is clear: For those of us who’ve looked hard at this issue, whether they’re public health professionals or staff specialists in your own companies, we feel sure that the one thing we shouldn’t do is nothing.”
会议在必百瑞的大礼堂进行。第一位演讲者是卡夫公司的副主席迈克尔·马德(Michael Mudd)。“我非常感谢能有这次机会，与在座各位讨论儿童肥胖症，以及它带给我们日益艰巨的挑战。”这是马德的开场白。“请允许我在开始时就说明，这不是项简单的任务。公共卫生界该做些什么才能让这个问题得到控制，或者食品业在外界想让我们对此负责时应当做些什么——问题没有简单的答案。但有一点是清楚的：无论公共卫生专家还是我们公司自己的专业人员，凡仔细审视过此事的人都确信，唯一不能做的就是安之若素。”
As he spoke, Mudd clicked through a deck of slides — 114 in all — projected on a large screen behind him. The figures were staggering. More than half of American adults were now considered overweight, with nearly one-quarter of the adult population — 40 million people — clinically defined as obese. Among children, the rates had more than doubled since 1980, and the number of kids considered obese had shot past 12 million. (This was still only 1999; the nation’s obesity rates would climb much higher.) Food manufacturers were now being blamed for the problem from all sides — academia, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the American Heart Association and the American Cancer Society. The secretary of agriculture, over whom the industry had long held sway, had recently called obesity a “national epidemic.”
马德一边讲一边用身后的大屏幕演示幻灯片，总共114张。数据惊人：美国超过半数的成年人超重，将近四分之一（4000万人）被诊断为肥胖症。超重儿童的比例比1980年时翻了一倍，肥胖症患儿的人数已超过1200万。（这还只是1999年的数据；美国肥胖率一直在攀升。）学术界、疾病预防和控制中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)、美国心脏协会(American Heart Association)和美国癌症协会(American Cancer Society)等各界人士都将肥胖问题归咎于食品业。长期跟着食品业后面走的农业部长，最近也称肥胖症为“全国流行病”。
Mudd then did the unthinkable. He drew a connection to the last thing in the world the C.E.O.’s wanted linked to their products: cigarettes. First came a quote from a Yale University professor of psychology and public health, Kelly Brownell, who was an especially vocal proponent of the view that the processed-food industry should be seen as a public health menace: “As a culture, we’ve become upset by the tobacco companies advertising to children, but we sit idly by while the food companies do the very same thing. And we could make a claim that the toll taken on the public health by a poor diet rivals that taken by tobacco.”
然后马德做了一件出人意料的事情。他把食品，与在座总裁最不希望与自己产品搭上边的一样东西联系了起来：香烟。马德首先引用了耶鲁大学(Yale University)心理学和公共卫生学教授凯利·布劳内尔(Kelly Brownell)的一句话：“我们愤怒于烟草公司向儿童做广告，这已是一种文化。然而我们却在食品公司做同样事情的时候坐视不理。我们可以断言：糟糕的饮食习惯对公众健康的损害已然与烟草不相上下”。布劳内尔教授是 “加工食品业当被视为公共卫生之祸害”这一观念的积极支持者。
“If anyone in the food industry ever doubted there was a slippery slope out there,” Mudd said, “I imagine they are beginning to experience a distinct sliding sensation right about now.”
“倘若食品业中曾有人怀疑过悲剧是否会到来，”马德说：“那我认为他们现在已开始体验滑向悲剧的感觉了。”
Mudd then presented the plan he and others had devised to address the obesity problem. Merely getting the executives to acknowledge some culpability was an important first step, he knew, so his plan would start off with a small but crucial move: the industry should use the expertise of scientists — its own and others — to gain a deeper understanding of what was driving Americans to overeat. Once this was achieved, the effort could unfold on several fronts. To be sure, there would be no getting around the role that packaged foods and drinks play in overconsumption. They would have to pull back on their use of salt, sugar and fat, perhaps by imposing industrywide limits. But it wasn’t just a matter of these three ingredients; the schemes they used to advertise and market their products were critical, too. Mudd proposed creating a “code to guide the nutritional aspects of food marketing, especially to children.”
接下来，马德提出了他和同僚们一起设计的抗击肥胖方案。他明白，先让老总们承认自己有责任就已经算是重大的一步了，所以他准备以一个小而关键的提议作为起始：让食品业利用本公司的或其他组织的科学家的专业知识深入了解什么原因促使美国人吃得过多。这个目标一旦实现，下面的工作就可在多方面展开。当然，包装食品和包装饮料在导致人暴饮暴食这个问题上逃不掉干系。厂家应当减少盐、糖和油脂的用量，这点可以通过在食品业内设限来保证。但问题不只限于这三种配料的用量。公司用于广告和推销产品的手段也同样重要。马德建议创立一套“在食品营销中提供营养价值信息的准则，对儿童尤其必要。”
“We are saying that the industry should make a sincere effort to be part of the solution,” Mudd concluded. “And that by doing so, we can help to defuse the criticism that’s building against us.”
“我们认为食品业应当真心实意做出努力，帮助解决肥胖问题。”马德总结道：“如此也可平息堆积在我们面前的责备。”
What happened next was not written down. But according to three participants, when Mudd stopped talking, the one C.E.O. whose recent exploits in the grocery store had awed the rest of the industry stood up to speak. His name was Stephen Sanger, and he was also the person — as head of General Mills — who had the most to lose when it came to dealing with obesity. Under his leadership, General Mills had overtaken not just the cereal aisle but other sections of the grocery store. The company’s Yoplait brand had transformed traditional unsweetened breakfast yogurt into a veritable dessert. It now had twice as much sugar per serving as General Mills’ marshmallow cereal Lucky Charms. And yet, because of yogurt’s well-tended image as a wholesome snack, sales of Yoplait were soaring, with annual revenue topping $500 million. Emboldened by the success, the company’s development wing pushed even harder, inventing a Yoplait variation that came in a squeezable tube — perfect for kids. They called it Go-Gurt and rolled it out nationally in the weeks before the C.E.O. meeting. (By year’s end, it would hit $100 million in sales.)
接着发生了什么就没有文字记录了。不过根据另外三名与会者回忆，马德讲完后，刚刚在食品超市做出令整个食品业敬畏之壮举的一名总裁起身发言。他是斯蒂芬·桑格(Stephen Sanger)，通用磨坊的统帅，也是在抗击肥胖中将蒙受最大损失的人。在他的率领下，通用磨坊不仅占领了早餐谷物货架，还占领了食品超市里其他几个区。他们的Yoplait酸奶把传统无糖早餐酸奶变身为名副其实的甜品。每份的含糖量是通用磨坊幸运魔法棉花糖早餐(Lucky Charms)的两倍。然而，由于酸奶具有“健康零食”的美好形象，Yoplait销量一路飞涨，年收入超过5亿美元。成功让通用磨坊底气十足，发展的翅膀越扇越带劲。他们发明出可以从管子里挤出来吃的Yoplait变体——孩子们的福音。他们给这个产品起名为Go-Gurt。此次总裁会议的几周前，Go-Gurt在美国全面上市。（至那年年底，Go-Gurt销量达1亿美元。）
According to the sources I spoke with, Sanger began by reminding the group that consumers were “fickle.” (Sanger declined to be interviewed.) Sometimes they worried about sugar, other times fat. General Mills, he said, acted responsibly to both the public and shareholders by offering products to satisfy dieters and other concerned shoppers, from low sugar to added whole grains. But most often, he said, people bought what they liked, and they liked what tasted good. “Don’t talk to me about nutrition,” he reportedly said, taking on the voice of the typical consumer. “Talk to me about taste, and if this stuff tastes better, don’t run around trying to sell stuff that doesn’t taste good.”
据提供给我资料的人说，桑格一开场就提醒各位消费者“朝三暮四”。（桑格拒绝接受采访。）有时他们担心糖多了，有时他们担心脂肪多了。他说，通用磨坊提供从低糖至添加全谷物的多种商品，能够满足节食者和其他谨慎的顾客；这对公众和股东都是负责任的。不过大多数情况下，他说，人们还是会买自己喜欢吃的东西，而且他们喜欢吃味道好的食物。“别跟我提营养，”据说，他学着普通消费者的语气讲道：“就说口味。如果这东西好吃，那就别费尽心思卖那些不好吃的。”
To react to the critics, Sanger said, would jeopardize the sanctity of the recipes that had made his products so successful. General Mills would not pull back. He would push his people onward, and he urged his peers to do the same. Sanger’s response effectively ended the meeting.
桑格说，回应外界批评会危及到使产品大获成功的配方的神圣性。通用磨坊不会妥协。他会敦促雇员再向前迈进，同时也力劝同行这样做。桑格的演说有效地终止了会议。
“What can I say?” James Behnke told me years later. “It didn’t work. These guys weren’t as receptive as we thought they would be.” Behnke chose his words deliberately. He wanted to be fair. “Sanger was trying to say, ‘Look, we’re not going to screw around with the company jewels here and change the formulations because a bunch of guys in white coats are worried about obesity.’ ”
“我能说什么呢？”詹姆斯·本克多年后告诉我：“会议没成功。这些人不像我想象的那么容易接受建议。”本克小心措辞。他试图公平地评价：“桑格要表达的是‘听着，我们可不要浪费公司财富改换现有配方，就因为一群穿白大褂的家伙担心肥胖症的事儿。’”
The meeting was remarkable, first, for the insider admissions of guilt. But I was also struck by how prescient the organizers of the sit-down had been. Today, one in three adults is considered clinically obese, along with one in five kids, and 24 million Americans are afflicted by type 2 diabetes, often caused by poor diet, with another 79 million people having pre-diabetes. Even gout, a painful form of arthritis once known as “the rich man’s disease” for its associations with gluttony, now afflicts eight million Americans.
不过会议仍具重大意义。起码，业内人士已表现出了自责。但我也惊讶于组织者对失败的结果是多么有先见之明。今天，美国有三分之一成年人、五分之一儿童被诊断为肥胖症；有2400万人基本上都是因糟糕的饮食而罹患II型糖尿病，另有7900万人进入了糖尿病前期。甚至痛风，一种曾被成为“富人病”、往往与暴食相关的能带来剧痛的关节炎，如今正折磨着800万美国人。
The public and the food companies have known for decades now — or at the very least since this meeting — that sugary, salty, fatty foods are not good for us in the quantities that we consume them. So why are the diabetes and obesity and hypertension numbers still spiraling out of control? It’s not just a matter of poor willpower on the part of the consumer and a give-the-people-what-they-want attitude on the part of the food manufacturers. What I found, over four years of research and reporting, was a conscious effort — taking place in labs and marketing meetings and grocery-store aisles — to get people hooked on foods that are convenient and inexpensive. I talked to more than 300 people in or formerly employed by the processed-food industry, from scientists to marketers to C.E.O.’s. Some were willing whistle-blowers, while others spoke reluctantly when presented with some of the thousands of pages of secret memos that I obtained from inside the food industry’s operations. What follows is a series of small case studies of a handful of characters whose work then, and perspective now, sheds light on how the foods are created and sold to people who, while not powerless, are extremely vulnerable to the intensity of these companies’ industrial formulations and selling campaigns.
几十年来——或至少是那次会议之后，公众和食品业都知道：以我们当前的消耗量来消耗甜、咸、油的食品，是对健康无益的。那为什么糖尿病、肥胖症和高血压患者的数量持续飙高、无法控制？不仅仅是消费者自制力差；也不仅仅是食品制造商“要什么给什么”的态度。四年的研究和采访让我发现，有一种实打实的企图在起作用。它存在于实验室、营销会议和超市的货架：让人们对方便又廉价的食物上瘾。我采访过300多名现在或曾在加工食品业工作的人。他们中有科学家、营销人员，还有总裁。有些人愿意揭露真相；而另一些人，面对着我从食品业内部获得的上千页秘密记录中的一部分时，不愿开口。接下来我会给出一系列小的案例研究，这些研究对象从前的工作和当前的观点向我们解释了食品是如何被创造、如何被卖给即便有自控能力，但在强大的工业配方和推销手段面前也难拒诱惑的消费者们的。
I. ‘In This Field, I’m a Game Changer.’
I. “在这个领域，我能翻云覆雨。”
John Lennon couldn’t find it in England, so he had cases of it shipped from New York to fuel the “Imagine” sessions. The Beach Boys, ZZ Top and Cher all stipulated in their contract riders that it be put in their dressing rooms when they toured. Hillary Clinton asked for it when she traveled as first lady, and ever after her hotel suites were dutifully stocked.
因为在英国找不到，约翰·列侬(John Lennon)便从纽约运回几大箱，为他的《想象》(Imagine)添加动力。海滩男孩(The Beach Boys)、ZZ托普(ZZ Top)和雪儿(Cher)在合同附加条款里规定：巡演时，化妆间里必须有它。希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)以第一夫人身份出行时也要喝它，自那之后她的宾馆套房里永不缺货。
What they all wanted was Dr Pepper, which until 2001 occupied a comfortable third-place spot in the soda aisle behind Coca-Cola and Pepsi. But then a flood of spinoffs from the two soda giants showed up on the shelves — lemons and limes, vanillas and coffees, raspberries and oranges, whites and blues and clears — what in food-industry lingo are known as “line extensions,” and Dr Pepper started to lose its market share.
他们想要的是：“胡椒博士”(Dr Pepper)——直到2001年都在汽水货架上稳居第三，仅次于可口可乐和百事可乐。可后来，两大汽水巨头推出了一大批副产品：柠檬和青柠、香草和咖啡、覆盆子和橙子、白的蓝的透明的……按照食品业的行话，这叫“产品延伸”。胡椒博士开始丢失市场占有率。
Responding to this pressure, Cadbury Schweppes created its first spin­off, other than a diet version, in the soda’s 115-year history, a bright red soda with a very un-Dr Pepper name: Red Fusion. “If we are to re-establish Dr Pepper back to its historic growth rates, we have to add more excitement,” the company’s president, Jack Kilduff, said. One particularly promising market, Kilduff pointed out, was the “rapidly growing Hispanic and African-American communities.”
吉百利-施韦普斯公司(Cadbury Schweppes)应压出战，创立了自己的非低热量版本衍生产品。在115年的汽水史中，头一个推出了鲜红色的汽水，还起了个很不“胡椒博士”的名字：“红色聚变”(Red Fusion)。“如果我们希望胡椒博士重振雄风，就要给产品加点儿料。”公司总裁杰克·基尔达夫(Jack Kilduff)说。他指出，迅速扩大的西班牙裔和非裔美国人群体是一个正迅速扩大的市场。
But consumers hated Red Fusion. “Dr Pepper is my all-time favorite drink, so I was curious about the Red Fusion,” a California mother of three wrote on a blog to warn other Peppers away. “It’s disgusting. Gagging. Never again.”
可惜消费者讨厌“红色聚变”。“胡椒博士一直是我的最爱，所以我对‘红色聚变’充满好奇。”来自加州的一名三个孩子的母亲在博客上警告其他胡椒博士爱好者远离此产品：“恶心、难喝、再也不要试了。”
Stung by the rejection, Cadbury Schweppes in 2004 turned to a food-industry legend named Howard Moskowitz. Moskowitz, who studied mathematics and holds a Ph.D. in experimental psychology from Harvard, runs a consulting firm in White Plains, where for more than three decades he has “optimized” a variety of products for Campbell Soup, General Foods, Kraft and PepsiCo. “I’ve optimized soups,” Moskowitz told me. “I’ve optimized pizzas. I’ve optimized salad dressings and pickles. In this field, I’m a game changer.”
被消费者的排斥打击得不轻的吉百利-施韦普斯于2004年向食品业传奇——霍华德·莫斯科维茨(Howard Moskowitz)求助。莫斯科维茨是学数学的，获得过哈佛大学(Harvard)实验心理学的博士学位。他在白原市开办的咨询公司，在过去的30多年来为金宝汤(Campbell Soup)、通用食品(General Foods)、卡夫和百事公司“优化”过各种产品。“我优化过汤，”莫斯科维茨告诉我：“优化过披萨饼，优化过沙拉酱和酸黄瓜。在这个领域，我能翻云覆雨。”
In the process of product optimization, food engineers alter a litany of variables with the sole intent of finding the most perfect version (or versions) of a product. Ordinary consumers are paid to spend hours sitting in rooms where they touch, feel, sip, smell, swirl and taste whatever product is in question. Their opinions are dumped into a computer, and the data are sifted and sorted through a statistical method called conjoint analysis, which determines what features will be most attractive to consumers. Moskowitz likes to imagine that his computer is divided into silos, in which each of the attributes is stacked. But it’s not simply a matter of comparing Color 23 with Color 24. In the most complicated projects, Color 23 must be combined with Syrup 11 and Packaging 6, and on and on, in seemingly infinite combinations. Even for jobs in which the only concern is taste and the variables are limited to the ingredients, endless charts and graphs will come spewing out of Moskowitz’s computer. “The mathematical model maps out the ingredients to the sensory perceptions these ingredients create,” he told me, “so I can just dial a new product. This is the engineering approach.”
优化产品时，食品工程师需调整长长的一串变量，唯一目的就是找到产品的最完美版本。普通消费者拿了报酬后，几个小时坐在屋子里触摸、感觉、小啜、闻、搅、尝正在被研究的产品。他们的评价被统统输入计算机，一种称为联合分析的统计方法将数据筛选分类，决定哪些特征对消费者最有吸引力。莫斯科维茨喜欢比喻计算机被分割成不同数据库，每个数据库中存有产品的一种特质。不过这可不像比较一下23号颜色和24号颜色这么简单。在最复杂的项目中，23号颜色必须与11号糖浆、6号包装……相结合，似乎有无限多种可能的组合。即便是在只关心口味，变量无外乎几种配料的项目里，莫斯科维茨的电脑中都能喷涌出无穷无尽的图表和曲线。“数学模型可以作‘成分-味觉曲线图’。”他告诉我：“所以我能像拨转盘电话一样拨出一个新产品来，这叫工程学方法。”
Moskowitz’s work on Prego spaghetti sauce was memorialized in a 2004 presentation by the author Malcolm Gladwell at the TED conference in Monterey, Calif.: “After . . . months and months, he had a mountain of data about how the American people feel about spaghetti sauce. . . . And sure enough, if you sit down and you analyze all this data on spaghetti sauce, you realize that all Americans fall into one of three groups. There are people who like their spaghetti sauce plain. There are people who like their spaghetti sauce spicy. And there are people who like it extra-chunky. And of those three facts, the third one was the most significant, because at the time, in the early 1980s, if you went to a supermarket, you would not find extra-chunky spaghetti sauce. And Prego turned to Howard, and they said, ‘Are you telling me that one-third of Americans crave extra-chunky spaghetti sauce, and yet no one is servicing their needs?’ And he said, ‘Yes.’ And Prego then went back and completely reformulated their spaghetti sauce and came out with a line of extra-chunky that immediately and completely took over the spaghetti-sauce business in this country. . . . That is Howard’s gift to the American people. . . . He fundamentally changed the way the food industry thinks about making you happy.”
2004年，在加州蒙特利尔举办的TED大会上，马尔科姆·格拉德维尔(Malcolm Gladwell)用演讲纪念了莫斯科维茨为Prego（金宝公司旗下品牌——译注）意面酱做的优化：“……数个月过去，他收集到的描述美国人如何看待意面酱的数据堆成了山。如果你坐下来仔细研究这些意面酱资料，毫无疑问，你会发现所有美国人可以分成三类。一类人喜欢清淡的酱，一类人喜欢辣的，还有一类喜欢特别稠厚的。其中第三类人最为关键。因为在上世纪80年代初期，你在市面上根本找不到特稠意面酱。Prego公司找到霍华德，问他：‘你是说，三分之一的美国人酷爱超级稠厚的意面酱，可就是没人卖给他们？’霍华德回答：‘正是。’于是Prego公司回去全面改换配方，推出了一款特稠意面酱，顷刻间完全占领了全美意面酱市场……这就是霍华德送给全国人民的礼物……他彻底改变了食品公司让消费者开心的策略。”
Well, yes and no. One thing Gladwell didn’t mention is that the food industry already knew some things about making people happy — and it started with sugar. Many of the Prego sauces — whether cheesy, chunky or light — have one feature in common: The largest ingredient, after tomatoes, is sugar. A mere half-cup of Prego Traditional, for instance, has the equivalent of more than two teaspoons of sugar, as much as two-plus Oreo cookies. It also delivers one-third of the sodium recommended for a majority of American adults for an entire day. In making these sauces, Campbell supplied the ingredients, including the salt, sugar and, for some versions, fat, while Moskowitz supplied the optimization. “More is not necessarily better,” Moskowitz wrote in his own account of the Prego project. “As the sensory intensity (say, of sweetness) increases, consumers first say that they like the product more, but eventually, with a middle level of sweetness, consumers like the product the most (this is their optimum, or ‘bliss,’ point).”
对；也不对。格拉德维尔没有提到的一点是，食品业早已知道有的东西能够让人开心：糖。无论是多奶酪的、特稠的还是稀薄的Prego酱都有一个共同特征：最主要成分，除了西红柿就是糖。比如，仅仅半杯传统Prego酱就含有两茶匙多的糖，抵得上两块多奥利奥(Oreo)饼干。它的钠盐含量是绝大多数成年人每日推荐摄入量的三分之一。为制成这些酱料，金宝公司提供配料，包括盐、糖和某几款需要的脂肪；莫斯科维茨则负责优化设计。“配料不一定越多越好，”莫斯科维茨在他的Prego项目记录中写道：“当感官刺激（比如甜味）增强时，消费者一开始会认为自己更喜欢该产品；但最终，他们最中意的还是甜味适度的东西（这就是他们最满足的感觉，或称‘极乐点’[bliss point]）。”
I first met Moskowitz on a crisp day in the spring of 2010 at the Harvard Club in Midtown Manhattan. As we talked, he made clear that while he has worked on numerous projects aimed at creating more healthful foods and insists the industry could be doing far more to curb obesity, he had no qualms about his own pioneering work on discovering what industry insiders now regularly refer to as “the bliss point” or any of the other systems that helped food companies create the greatest amount of crave. “There’s no moral issue for me,” he said. “I did the best science I could. I was struggling to survive and didn’t have the luxury of being a moral creature. As a researcher, I was ahead of my time.”
2010年一个天朗气清的春日，我在曼哈顿中城的哈佛校友会(Harvard Club)上第一次遇见莫斯科维茨。我们交谈时，他清楚地表示，尽管他给无数个想要创造健康食品的项目工作过，也曾坚持认为食品业远可以在控制肥胖问题上做得更多；但他至今仍为自己的创举深感不安。他发现了如今被业内人士广泛谈及的极乐点，以及其他能帮食品公司勾引出消费者最大渴望的配方系统。“对我而言，没有什么道德上的问题，”他说：“我在科学方面尽了最大努力。我摸爬滚打地生存，不享有成为道德楷模的奢侈。作为研究者，我跑在了时代前沿。”
Moskowitz’s path to mastering the bliss point began in earnest not at Harvard but a few months after graduation, 16 miles from Cambridge, in the town of Natick, where the U.S. Army hired him to work in its research labs. The military has long been in a peculiar bind when it comes to food: how to get soldiers to eat more rations when they are in the field. They know that over time, soldiers would gradually find their meals-ready-to-eat so boring that they would toss them away, half-eaten, and not get all the calories they needed. But what was causing this M.R.E.-fatigue was a mystery. “So I started asking soldiers how frequently they would like to eat this or that, trying to figure out which products they would find boring,” Moskowitz said. The answers he got were inconsistent. “They liked flavorful foods like turkey tetrazzini, but only at first; they quickly grew tired of them. On the other hand, mundane foods like white bread would never get them too excited, but they could eat lots and lots of it without feeling they’d had enough.”
莫斯科维茨对极乐点的热切追求并非始于哈佛；而是毕业后几个月，美军雇他到距离坎布里齐16英里的纳蒂克小镇的军队实验室工作时才开始。军队与食品长期以来都有着独特的联系：如何让士兵在战场上吃进更多的口粮。他们知道时间一长，士兵会逐渐觉得即食食品太乏味了。他们会把口粮扔掉，或只吃一点儿，因而得不到所需能量。但究竟是什么让士兵对即食食品产生厌倦始终是个谜。“我从询问士兵乐意以多高频率吃各种食品开始，希望找到他们认为乏味的东西。”莫斯科维茨说。可他得到的答案却莫衷一是。“他们喜欢吃味道丰富的东西，比如奶油火鸡焗面，不过这仅限于一开始。很快他们就吃腻了。相反，白面包一类的普通食物永远不能让他们兴奋，但他们可以吃很多很多，也不会觉得已经吃得太多了。”
This contradiction is known as “sensory-specific satiety.” In lay terms, it is the tendency for big, distinct flavors to overwhelm the brain, which responds by depressing your desire to have more. Sensory-specific satiety also became a guiding principle for the processed-food industry. The biggest hits — be they Coca-Cola or Doritos — owe their success to complex formulas that pique the taste buds enough to be alluring but don’t have a distinct, overriding single flavor that tells the brain to stop eating.
这种对比叫做“特定过饱感”(sensory-specific satiety)。通俗得来讲，就是浓重独特的味道容易让大脑措手不及，从而抑制继续进食的欲望。特定过饱感同样也成了加工食品业的指导思想。成绩最突出的当属可口可乐和多乐脆(Doritos)，其成功均归结于复杂配方：既能够高度挑逗味蕾，又不含有独特、过分的单一味道而使大脑释放抑制信号。
Thirty-two years after he began experimenting with the bliss point, Moskowitz got the call from Cadbury Schweppes asking him to create a good line extension for Dr Pepper. I spent an afternoon in his White Plains offices as he and his vice president for research, Michele Reisner, walked me through the Dr Pepper campaign. Cadbury wanted its new flavor to have cherry and vanilla on top of the basic Dr Pepper taste. Thus, there were three main components to play with. A sweet cherry flavoring, a sweet vanilla flavoring and a sweet syrup known as “Dr Pepper flavoring.”
自他研究极乐点起32年之后，莫斯科维茨接到了吉百利-施韦普斯公司的电话，请他为胡椒博士设计一款好的副产品。我在他白原市的办公室里呆了一个下午，他和研发副总裁米歇尔·赖斯纳(Michele Reisner)带我翻看了胡椒博士项目。吉百利希望新汽水在原有胡椒博士的味道上添加樱桃和香草味。所以，共有三种主要原料需调配。甜樱桃香精、甜香草香精和名为“胡椒博士香精”的甜糖浆。
Finding the bliss point required the preparation of 61 subtly distinct formulas — 31 for the regular version and 30 for diet. The formulas were then subjected to 3,904 tastings organized in Los Angeles, Dallas, Chicago and Philadelphia. The Dr Pepper tasters began working through their samples, resting five minutes between each sip to restore their taste buds. After each sample, they gave numerically ranked answers to a set of questions: How much did they like it overall? How strong is the taste? How do they feel about the taste? How would they describe the quality of this product? How likely would they be to purchase this product?
找到极乐点需准备61种只有细微区别的配方（普通款31种，低热量款30种）。这些配方随即在洛杉矶、达拉斯、芝加哥和费城接受了3904场品鉴。胡椒博士的品鉴员一个样品一个样品地尝，每喝一口休息5分钟，等待味蕾恢复原始状态。每尝完一个样品，他们就要回答一系列量化问题：你对它的喜欢程度有多少？味道强烈程度是多少？你对这种味道怎么看？你对此产品的质量怎么看？你有多大可能性买它？
Moskowitz’s data — compiled in a 135-page report for the soda maker — is tremendously fine-grained, showing how different people and groups of people feel about a strong vanilla taste versus weak, various aspects of aroma and the powerful sensory force that food scientists call “mouth feel.” This is the way a product interacts with the mouth, as defined more specifically by a host of related sensations, from dryness to gumminess to moisture release. These are terms more familiar to sommeliers, but the mouth feel of soda and many other food items, especially those high in fat, is second only to the bliss point in its ability to predict how much craving a product will induce.
莫斯科维茨将数据集成了一摞135页的报告交给汽水商。数据极度细化，显示了不同人、不同群体对“浓重或清淡的香草味、香味的各个层面、食品学家称为‘口感’的强烈感觉”的看法。口感反映了产品与嘴互动的方式，可更细致地分为一系列感觉，从干燥度到粘度到润湿度等等。虽然这些词汇对品酒师而言更为熟悉，但论及汽水和高脂肪食品时，口感对于预测产品能引起多强欲望的重要性，仅次于极乐点。
In addition to taste, the consumers were also tested on their response to color, which proved to be highly sensitive. “When we increased the level of the Dr Pepper flavoring, it gets darker and liking goes off,” Reisner said. These preferences can also be cross-referenced by age, sex and race.
除了口味，他们还测试消费者对颜色的反应，结果证明这是个很敏感的因素。“我们把胡椒博士香精的比例增高，饮料颜色加深，受欢迎程度相应下降。”赖斯纳说。这些偏好也与年龄、性别和种族有关。
On Page 83 of the report, a thin blue line represents the amount of Dr Pepper flavoring needed to generate maximum appeal. The line is shaped like an upside-down U, just like the bliss-point curve that Moskowitz studied 30 years earlier in his Army lab. And at the top of the arc, there is not a single sweet spot but instead a sweet range, within which “bliss” was achievable. This meant that Cadbury could edge back on its key ingredient, the sugary Dr Pepper syrup, without falling out of the range and losing the bliss. Instead of using 2 milliliters of the flavoring, for instance, they could use 1.69 milliliters and achieve the same effect. The potential savings is merely a few percentage points, and it won’t mean much to individual consumers who are counting calories or grams of sugar. But for Dr Pepper, it adds up to colossal savings. “That looks like nothing,” Reisner said. “But it’s a lot of money. A lot of money. Millions.”
报告的第83页，一条蓝色的细线绘出产品获得最大吸引力时所需胡椒博士香精的量。这条线像是一个倒着的“U”，正如莫斯科维茨30年前在军队实验室画出的极乐点曲线一样。拱形的最高处并非一个单一“甜点”，而是一个“甜域”。只要在“甜域”内，极乐点就可达到。这意味着吉百利可以略微减少主要成分——甜胡椒博士糖浆的用量，也不至于滑出“甜域”错失极乐点。所以他们就无需再加2毫升香精，比如只需加1.69毫升就能获得同等效果。省下的不过几个百分点，对于每个计算热量、含糖量的消费者来说没什么区别。然而对于胡椒博士，这就是一笔巨大的节省。“看似一点点，”赖斯纳说：“加起来就是很多钱。很多很多钱，几百万。”
The soda that emerged from all of Moskowitz’s variations became known as Cherry Vanilla Dr Pepper, and it proved successful beyond anything Cadbury imagined. In 2008, Cadbury split off its soft-drinks business, which included Snapple and 7-Up. The Dr Pepper Snapple Group has since been valued in excess of $11 billion.
新汽水从莫斯科维茨的所有配方变体中诞生了，它名为樱桃香草胡椒博士(Cherry Vanilla Dr Pepper)。它的成功超过了吉百利公司的最大想象。2008年，吉百利公司与它的软饮料产业分道扬镳，包括斯纳普(Snapple)和七喜(7-Up)。胡椒博士-斯纳普公司(Dr Pepper Snapple Group)的估价超过了110亿美元。
II. ‘Lunchtime Is All Yours’
II. “午餐时间属于你自己”
Sometimes innovations within the food industry happen in the lab, with scientists dialing in specific ingredients to achieve the greatest allure. And sometimes, as in the case of Oscar Mayer’s bologna crisis, the innovation involves putting old products in new packages.
有时，食品业的创新发生在实验室里。科学家们添入特殊配料，调出最具诱惑力的味道；也有时，创新意味着新瓶装陈酒，就像奥斯卡-麦尔(Oscar Mayer)公司深陷“腊肠危机”时所做的那样。
The 1980s were tough times for Oscar Mayer. Red-meat consumption fell more than 10 percent as fat became synonymous with cholesterol, clogged arteries, heart attacks and strokes. Anxiety set in at the company’s headquarters in Madison, Wis., where executives worried about their future and the pressure they faced from their new bosses at Philip Morris.
上世纪80年代，奥斯卡-麦尔的日子着实难过。“脂肪”变成了胆固醇、动脉栓塞、心脏病和中风的同义词，红肉的销量应声下降10%以上。地处威斯康星州麦迪逊市的公司总部陷入了焦虑。主管们忧心于公司的前途，也害怕来自新东家菲利普-莫里斯（Philip Morris，美国最大烟草公司之一——译注）的重压。
Bob Drane was the company’s vice president for new business strategy and development when Oscar Mayer tapped him to try to find some way to reposition bologna and other troubled meats that were declining in popularity and sales. I met Drane at his home in Madison and went through the records he had kept on the birth of what would become much more than his solution to the company’s meat problem. In 1985, when Drane began working on the project, his orders were to “figure out how to contemporize what we’ve got.”
当时负责新商业策略和发展的是副主席鲍勃·德雷恩(Bob Drane)。公司催促他想办法让腊肠及其他受冷落、卖不动的肉类恢复往日风采。我与德雷恩在他麦迪逊市的家中见面，翻看了他解决腊肠问题时的资料。这些资料后来产生的重要性已远不只是帮助公司恢复肉制品销量而已。当1985年德雷恩着手腊肠项目时，他的任务是“历史产物现代化”。
Drane’s first move was to try to zero in not on what Americans felt about processed meat but on what Americans felt about lunch. He organized focus-group sessions with the people most responsible for buying bologna — mothers — and as they talked, he realized the most pressing issue for them was time. Working moms strove to provide healthful food, of course, but they spoke with real passion and at length about the morning crush, that nightmarish dash to get breakfast on the table and lunch packed and kids out the door. He summed up their remarks for me like this: “It’s awful. I am scrambling around. My kids are asking me for stuff. I’m trying to get myself ready to go to the office. I go to pack these lunches, and I don’t know what I’ve got.” What the moms revealed to him, Drane said, was “a gold mine of disappointments and problems.”
德雷恩的第一步计划是搞清楚美国人对“午餐”，而非对“加工肉类”，是怎么看的。他组织焦点小组调查，对象是最有可能买腊肠的人群：母亲们。在谈论中，德雷恩意识到她们最紧迫的问题是：时间不够用。当然，职业女性尽其所能给家人提供健康食品，不过她们一提起每天早晨的紧张就兴致勃勃说个没完——把早餐摆上桌、把孩子们的午餐装好、送他们出门……噩梦般的急迫与忙乱。德雷恩向我总结她们的话：“糟透了，我上窜下跳。孩子冲我要东西、我自己要准备好去上班、还要给他们装午饭。我都不知道我装了什么。”据德雷恩所述，这些职业母亲们告诉给他一个“满是沮丧与麻烦的金矿”。
He assembled a team of about 15 people with varied skills, from design to food science to advertising, to create something completely new — a convenient prepackaged lunch that would have as its main building block the company’s sliced bologna and ham. They wanted to add bread, naturally, because who ate bologna without it? But this presented a problem: There was no way bread could stay fresh for the two months their product needed to sit in warehouses or in grocery coolers. Crackers, however, could — so they added a handful of cracker rounds to the package. Using cheese was the next obvious move, given its increased presence in processed foods. But what kind of cheese would work? Natural Cheddar, which they started off with, crumbled and didn’t slice very well, so they moved on to processed varieties, which could bend and be sliced and would last forever, or they could knock another two cents off per unit by using an even lesser product called “cheese food,” which had lower scores than processed cheese in taste tests. The cost dilemma was solved when Oscar Mayer merged with Kraft in 1989 and the company didn’t have to shop for cheese anymore; it got all the processed cheese it wanted from its new sister company, and at cost.
他召集了一个15人的队伍，从设计到食品学到广告，队员各有所长。他们要创造一种新产品：包含公司的中流砥柱——切片腊肠和切片火腿的预包装方便午餐。他们想加上面包。太显然了，谁吃腊肠不配面包？但这就带来一个问题：方便午餐要在库房和超市冷柜里存放两个月之久，什么面包也保鲜不了如此长的时间。不过饼干可以。所以他们在包装里加了一小桶饼干。下一步自然是加奶酪，奶酪在加工食品中的出镜率越来越高。哪种奶酪好呢？他们首先想到的是天然切达奶酪(Natural Cheddar)，但它易碎又不好切。因此他们开始在韧性高、好切、易存放的再加工奶酪中挑选。或者，他们也可以每包再省下两美分用口味得分比加工奶酪低的次等产品“奶酪食品”。1989年，奥斯卡-迈尔和卡夫公司合并，成本问题也解决了，他们不必再向外人买奶酪了，所需一切再加工奶酪都能以成本价从它的新姊妹公司购进。
Drane’s team moved into a nearby hotel, where they set out to find the right mix of components and container. They gathered around tables where bagfuls of meat, cheese, crackers and all sorts of wrapping material had been dumped, and they let their imaginations run. After snipping and taping their way through a host of failures, the model they fell back on was the American TV dinner — and after some brainstorming about names (Lunch Kits? Go-Packs? Fun Mealz?), Lunchables were born.
德雷恩小组走进附近的旅馆，准备寻找正确的成分组合及容器。他们把人们丢弃的成包肉制品、奶酪、饼干和所有包装材料收集在桌子上，然后放飞想象力。历经重重挫折之后，他们又退回到美式冷冻快餐的模型上。关于取什么名字好，几次头脑风暴之后（午餐套件？便携包？趣饭？），“可午餐”(Lunchables)的商标诞生了。
The trays flew off the grocery-store shelves. Sales hit a phenomenal $218 million in the first 12 months, more than anyone was prepared for. This only brought Drane his next crisis. The production costs were so high that they were losing money with each tray they produced. So Drane flew to New York, where he met with Philip Morris officials who promised to give him the money he needed to keep it going. “The hard thing is to figure out something that will sell,” he was told. “You’ll figure out how to get the cost right.” Projected to lose $6 million in 1991, the trays instead broke even; the next year, they earned $8 million.
“可午餐”从货架上被一扫而空。前12个月内获得了2.18亿美元的惊人销量，成绩好得让人都反应不过来。而这却带给德雷恩下一场危机。商品的成本太高，他们实际上亏本了。德雷恩飞往纽约，与菲利普-莫里斯公司的官员见面，他们承诺提供资金以便继续销售“可午餐”。“什么东西好卖，这很难判断。”官员这么告诉德雷恩。“你会弄清楚怎么降低成本的。”他们估计“可午餐”在1991年预亏600万美元，实际上收支平衡；第二年，他们盈利了800万美元。
With production costs trimmed and profits coming in, the next question was how to expand the franchise, which they did by turning to one of the cardinal rules in processed food: When in doubt, add sugar. “Lunchables With Dessert is a logical extension,” an Oscar Mayer official reported to Philip Morris executives in early 1991. The “target” remained the same as it was for regular Lunchables — “busy mothers” and “working women,” ages 25 to 49 — and the “enhanced taste” would attract shoppers who had grown bored with the current trays. A year later, the dessert Lunchable morphed into the Fun Pack, which would come with a Snickers bar, a package of M&M’s or a Reese’s Peanut Butter Cup, as well as a sugary drink. The Lunchables team started by using Kool-Aid and cola and then Capri Sun after Philip Morris added that drink to its stable of brands.
随着生产成本的降低和利润的涌入，下一个问题就是如何将商品扩大化。在这一点上，他们确实遵循了加工食品业的金科玉律：不确定时就加糖。“配甜点的‘可午餐’是个合理的扩展产品。”1991年初，奥斯卡-麦尔的官员向菲利普-莫里斯主管汇报：新产品面向的客户与普通“可午餐”相同——25-49岁的职业女性及忙碌的母亲；另外，更有“滋味”的新产品能够吸引厌倦了当前产品的客户。一年后，加了甜点的可午餐化身为“趣味包”(Fun Pack)，甜点包括一块士力架巧克力棒(Snickers bar)，一包M&M豆，或是Reese花生酱杯(Reese’s Peanut Butter Cup)，再加一瓶甜饮料。起初“可午餐”团队用的饮料是Kool-Aid和可乐，后来在菲利普-莫里斯把可沛利(Capri Sun)加入自己商品大军之后改用可沛利。
Eventually, a line of the trays, appropriately called Maxed Out, was released that had as many as nine grams of saturated fat, or nearly an entire day’s recommended maximum for kids, with up to two-thirds of the max for sodium and 13 teaspoons of sugar.
最终，一款具有贴切名称的方便午餐——“最大化”(Maxed Out)上市了。它含有9克饱和脂肪酸，几乎是儿童一整天的推荐摄入量；还含有三分之二推荐量的钠盐以及13茶匙糖。
When I asked Geoffrey Bible, former C.E.O. of Philip Morris, about this shift toward more salt, sugar and fat in meals for kids, he smiled and noted that even in its earliest incarnation, Lunchables was held up for criticism. “One article said something like, ‘If you take Lunchables apart, the most healthy item in it is the napkin.’ ”
当我向菲利普-莫里斯的前总裁杰弗里·拜布尔(Geoffrey Bible)问及为何在少儿食品中加了更多的盐、糖和脂肪时，他笑了笑，告诉我：其实“可午餐”刚一出道就饱受非议。“有篇文章大概这么写的：你把‘可午餐’拆开来看，最健康的部分是餐巾纸。”
Well, they did have a good bit of fat, I offered. “You bet,” he said. “Plus cookies.”
“它们确实含有不少脂肪。”我指出。“没错，”他说：“还要外加饼干呢。”
The prevailing attitude among the company’s food managers — through the 1990s, at least, before obesity became a more pressing concern — was one of supply and demand. “People could point to these things and say, ‘They’ve got too much sugar, they’ve got too much salt,’ ” Bible said. “Well, that’s what the consumer wants, and we’re not putting a gun to their head to eat it. That’s what they want. If we give them less, they’ll buy less, and the competitor will get our market. So you’re sort of trapped.” (Bible would later press Kraft to reconsider its reliance on salt, sugar and fat.)
至少在肥胖问题还不是如此迫在眉睫的20世纪90年代，公司食品部经理中盛行的一个观点就是：供求关系。“人们可能指着这些商品说‘糖太多了’、‘盐太多了’，”拜布尔说：“但这就是他们想要的。我们又没拿枪抵着他们脑袋逼他们吃下去。他们自己就想吃。我们提供的少，他们就买的少。然后竞争者就把市场夺走了。我们基本上属于被困住了。”（拜布尔后来强制卡夫重新考虑他们对糖、盐及脂肪的依赖。）
When it came to Lunchables, they did try to add more healthful ingredients. Back at the start, Drane experimented with fresh carrots but quickly gave up on that, since fresh components didn’t work within the constraints of the processed-food system, which typically required weeks or months of transport and storage before the food arrived at the grocery store. Later, a low-fat version of the trays was developed, using meats and cheese and crackers that were formulated with less fat, but it tasted inferior, sold poorly and was quickly scrapped.
说到“可午餐”，公司确实曾试图加点儿健康成分。最初，德雷恩试着把新鲜胡萝卜加进去，但他迅速放弃了这个尝试。因为加工食品在进入超市前往往要经历几周甚至几个月的运输和储存，而新鲜食材跟这种系统八字不合。后来，他们又出了低脂版本，所用的肉、奶酪和饼干都是低脂配方。可惜不太好吃，卖得不好，很快就被抛弃了。
When I met with Kraft officials in 2011 to discuss their products and policies on nutrition, they had dropped the Maxed Out line and were trying to improve the nutritional profile of Lunchables through smaller, incremental changes that were less noticeable to consumers. Across the Lunchables line, they said they had reduced the salt, sugar and fat by about 10 percent, and new versions, featuring mandarin-orange and pineapple slices, were in development. These would be promoted as more healthful versions, with “fresh fruit,” but their list of ingredients — containing upward of 70 items, with sucrose, corn syrup, high-fructose corn syrup and fruit concentrate all in the same tray — have been met with intense criticism from outside the industry.
2011年，当我与卡夫公司的官员会面，讨论他们的食品和政策在营养方面的问题时，他们已经停止了“最大化”的生产线，正努力提高“可午餐”的营养价值。他们采取的方法是进行消费者不大会注意到的少量、逐步的改变。他们说，所有“可午餐”产品都把盐、糖和脂肪降低了大约10%。而卖点为橘子瓣和菠萝片的新版本正在开发中。这个含有“新鲜水果”的“可午餐”将作为健康款来促销。但是它的成分——共有近70种配料：蔗糖、玉米糖浆、果葡糖浆、浓缩果汁全在一包里，已经得到了外界的尖刻批评。
One of the company’s responses to criticism is that kids don’t eat the Lunchables every day — on top of which, when it came to trying to feed them more healthful foods, kids themselves were unreliable. When their parents packed fresh carrots, apples and water, they couldn’t be trusted to eat them. Once in school, they often trashed the healthful stuff in their brown bags to get right to the sweets.
公司对外界指责的一种回应就是：孩子们又不是天天吃“可午餐”；此外，要说试图给他们吃更健康的食物，小孩子自己是靠不住的。家长给他们装了新鲜胡萝卜、苹果和水，谁能肯定他们一定会吃。到了学校，他们通常把健康食品扔到垃圾袋里然后直奔甜食而去。
This idea — that kids are in control — would become a key concept in the evolving marketing campaigns for the trays. In what would prove to be their greatest achievement of all, the Lunchables team would delve into adolescent psychology to discover that it wasn’t the food in the trays that excited the kids; it was the feeling of power it brought to their lives. As Bob Eckert, then the C.E.O. of Kraft, put it in 1999: “Lunchables aren’t about lunch. It’s about kids being able to put together what they want to eat, anytime, anywhere.”
“孩子们自己做主”这个想法是“可午餐”即将出台的营销活动的核心理念。“可午餐”团队深入研究了青少年心理学，他们发现能让孩子们兴奋的并不是包装中的食物，而是那种掌控自己命运的感觉。前卡夫总裁鲍勃·埃克特(Bob Eckert)在1999年宣传：“‘可午餐’不仅仅是午餐，它意味着孩子们可以在任何时间、任何地点、自行选配想吃的东西。”
Kraft’s early Lunchables campaign targeted mothers. They might be too distracted by work to make a lunch, but they loved their kids enough to offer them this prepackaged gift. But as the focus swung toward kids, Saturday-morning cartoons started carrying an ad that offered a different message: “All day, you gotta do what they say,” the ads said. “But lunchtime is all yours.”
卡夫早期的“可午餐”广告主要针对母亲们。她们工作太繁忙，没工夫准备午餐，但她们爱孩子，想给孩子一个包装好的礼物。但后来焦点移向了孩子们，周六早晨的卡通片开始插播一则传递着新讯息的广告：这一整天，你都要按他们说的做；不过，午餐时间属于你自己。
With this marketing strategy in place and pizza Lunchables — the crust in one compartment, the cheese, pepperoni and sauce in others — proving to be a runaway success, the entire world of fast food suddenly opened up for Kraft to pursue. They came out with a Mexican-themed Lunchables called Beef Taco Wraps; a Mini Burgers Lunchables; a Mini Hot Dog Lunchable, which also happened to provide a way for Oscar Mayer to sell its wieners. By 1999, pancakes — which included syrup, icing, Lifesavers candy and Tang, for a whopping 76 grams of sugar — and waffles were, for a time, part of the Lunchables franchise as well.
把这项营销策略做到位后，“披萨可午餐”（面饼装在一格里，奶酪、香肠和酱料在其他格子里）一夜爆红。全世界的快餐似乎一下子向卡夫公司张开双臂等着出品。他们接连推出了墨西哥主题的“牛肉脆玉米饼卷可午餐”(Beef Taco Wraps)，“迷你汉堡可午餐”(Mini Burgers Lunchables)，“迷你热狗可午餐”(Mini Hot Dog Lunchable)——这也让奥斯卡-麦尔得以卖掉他们的维也纳香肠。至1999年，加入“可午餐”大军的还有华夫饼和煎饼。煎饼里含有糖浆、糖衣、Lifesavers糖果（箭牌公司产品——译注）和果珍(Tang)，含糖量巨大：76克。
Annual sales kept climbing, past $500 million, past $800 million; at last count, including sales in Britain, they were approaching the $1 billion mark. Lunchables was more than a hit; it was now its own category. Eventually, more than 60 varieties of Lunchables and other brands of trays would show up in the grocery stores. In 2007, Kraft even tried a Lunchables Jr. for 3- to 5-year-olds.
年销量持续攀升，5亿美金突破了，8亿美金也突破了；最后，再加上英国的，总销量几乎突破10亿美金大关。“可午餐”不只是一个成功的产品，它成为了一个体系。进而，超市里出现了60多种“可午餐”和其他预包装午餐。2007年，卡夫甚至尝试推出专为3至5岁儿童设计的“小可午餐”(Lunchables Jr.)。
In the trove of records that document the rise of the Lunchables and the sweeping change it brought to lunchtime habits, I came across a photograph of Bob Drane’s daughter, which he had slipped into the Lunchables presentation he showed to food developers. The picture was taken on Monica Drane’s wedding day in 1989, and she was standing outside the family’s home in Madison, a beautiful bride in a white wedding dress, holding one of the brand-new yellow trays.
在记录着“可午餐”崛起及其给人们的午餐习惯带来改变的档案中，我发现了一张鲍勃·德雷恩女儿的照片，他把它夹在了一次给食品开发商作的产品陈述中间。这张照片拍摄于1989年，莫妮卡·德雷恩的婚礼。她站在家门口（麦迪逊市）——一位穿白纱的美丽新娘，手里拿着一盒黄色包装的最新“可午餐”。
During the course of reporting, I finally had a chance to ask her about it. Was she really that much of a fan? “There must have been some in the fridge,” she told me. “I probably just took one out before we went to the church. My mom had joked that it was really like their fourth child, my dad invested so much time and energy on it.”
在报道的最后，我终于找到机会问她这件事：她果真那么喜欢“可午餐”？“冰箱里肯定有一些，”她告诉我：“我可能正好去教堂之前拿了一包。我母亲开玩笑说它简直是他们的第四个孩子。父亲为它投入了那么多的时间和精力。”
Monica Drane had three of her own children by the time we spoke, ages 10, 14 and 17. “I don’t think my kids have ever eaten a Lunchable,” she told me. “They know they exist and that Grandpa Bob invented them. But we eat very healthfully.”
莫妮卡·德雷恩有三个孩子，在采访时，他们的年纪分别是10岁、14岁和17岁。“我不认为我的孩子吃过‘可午餐’，”她告诉我说：“他们知道‘可午餐’的存在，是外祖父鲍勃发明的。不过我们吃得很健康。”
Drane himself paused only briefly when I asked him if, looking back, he was proud of creating the trays. “Lots of things are trade-offs,” he said. “And I do believe it’s easy to rationalize anything. In the end, I wish that the nutritional profile of the thing could have been better, but I don’t view the entire project as anything but a positive contribution to people’s lives.”
我问德雷恩，如果回顾往昔，他是否会为自己发明了这些包装午餐感到自豪，德雷恩只是稍作停顿，然后说：“很多事情都有正反两面。想把一件事情合理化很容易。说到底，我希望‘可午餐’的营养价值能高一些。不过我还是觉得整个‘可午餐’计划对人们的生活作出了积极贡献。”
Today Bob Drane is still talking to kids about what they like to eat, but his approach has changed. He volunteers with a nonprofit organization that seeks to build better communications between school kids and their parents, and right in the mix of their problems, alongside the academic struggles, is childhood obesity. Drane has also prepared a précis on the food industry that he used with medical students at the University of Wisconsin. And while he does not name his Lunchables in this document, and cites numerous causes for the obesity epidemic, he holds the entire industry accountable. “What do University of Wisconsin M.B.A.’s learn about how to succeed in marketing?” his presentation to the med students asks. “Discover what consumers want to buy and give it to them with both barrels. Sell more, keep your job! How do marketers often translate these ‘rules’ into action on food? Our limbic brains love sugar, fat, salt. . . . So formulate products to deliver these. Perhaps add low-cost ingredients to boost profit margins. Then ‘supersize’ to sell more. . . . And advertise/promote to lock in ‘heavy users.’ Plenty of guilt to go around here!”
今天，鲍勃·德雷恩仍在与孩子们讨论他们喜欢吃什么，但方法有所改变。他在一家非营利组织当志愿者，试图在学生和家长间建立更健全的交流。除了学业上的挣扎纠结，儿童肥胖症也是个问题。德雷恩还准备了他讲给威斯康星大学(University of Wisconsin)医学生的一份食品业概要。尽管他没有在文档里指名道姓提到“可午餐”，但他援引了许多造成肥胖流行的原因，他认为整个食品业都有责任。“威斯康星大学的工商管理硕士学了些什么成功营销的方法？德雷恩问医学生道：“了解客户想买什么，然后卖他们双份。再多卖点儿，保住工作！营销人员如何将这些规则运用在卖食品上的？我们的大脑边缘系统喜爱糖、脂肪、盐……所以要造出含有这些东西的产品。也许还需使用廉价配料进一步增加利润率。再做成‘超大号的’以便卖得更多……然后用广告/促销手段套住老顾客。‘罪行’多了去啦！”
III. ‘It’s Called Vanishing Caloric Density.’
III. “迅速消失的热量”
At a symposium for nutrition scientists in Los Angeles on Feb. 15, 1985, a professor of pharmacology from Helsinki named Heikki Karppanen told the remarkable story of Finland’s effort to address its salt habit. In the late 1970s, the Finns were consuming huge amounts of sodium, eating on average more than two teaspoons of salt a day. As a result, the country had developed significant issues with high blood pressure, and men in the eastern part of Finland had the highest rate of fatal cardiovascular disease in the world. Research showed that this plague was not just a quirk of genetics or a result of a sedentary lifestyle — it was also owing to processed foods. So when Finnish authorities moved to address the problem, they went right after the manufacturers. (The Finnish response worked. Every grocery item that was heavy in salt would come to be marked prominently with the warning “High Salt Content.” By 2007, Finland’s per capita consumption of salt had dropped by a third, and this shift — along with improved medical care — was accompanied by a 75 percent to 80 percent decline in the number of deaths from strokes and heart disease.)
1985年2月15日，洛杉矶举办了一次营养学家研讨会。来自赫尔辛基(Helsinki)的药理学教授海基·卡尔帕宁(Heikki Karppanen)讲了一个著名的故事——芬兰是如何改正人们爱吃盐的习惯的。70年代末，芬兰人食用大量的盐，平均每天每人2茶匙以上。结果，整个国家都出现了严重的高血压问题，芬兰东部男性患致死性心血管疾病的概率世界第一。研究发现，这不光是由基因缺陷或久坐不动的习惯导致，加工食品业也有责任。因此当芬兰政府着手解决此问题时，头一个找的就是食品制造商。（芬兰的行动起作用了。超市里每一种高盐食品都必须有明显的“高盐”警告标识。至2007年，芬兰的人均食盐量下降了三分之一，再加上当时更先进的医疗水平，因中风和心脏病死亡的人数减少了75-80%。）
Karppanen’s presentation was met with applause, but one man in the crowd seemed particularly intrigued by the presentation, and as Karppanen left the stage, the man intercepted him and asked if they could talk more over dinner. Their conversation later that night was not at all what Karppanen was expecting. His host did indeed have an interest in salt, but from quite a different vantage point: the man’s name was Robert I-San Lin, and from 1974 to 1982, he worked as the chief scientist for Frito-Lay, the nearly $3-billion-a-year manufacturer of Lay’s, Doritos, Cheetos and Fritos.
卡尔帕宁的演讲赢得了热烈掌声，不过听众中有一人似乎尤其被吸引。卡尔帕宁离开讲台时，这名男士截住他请他共进晚餐，再聊一聊。当晚谈话的内容是卡尔帕宁根本没有料到的。请他吃饭的人确实对盐很感兴趣，但却是从有利的一面出发：此人名为罗伯特·林义山(Robert I-San Lin)，是1974-1982年时期菲多利(Frito-Lay)公司的首席科学家。菲多利是乐事薯片(Lay’s)、多乐脆(Doritos)、奇多(Cheetos)和Fritos玉米片的制造商，年销量近30亿美元。
Lin’s time at Frito-Lay coincided with the first attacks by nutrition advocates on salty foods and the first calls for federal regulators to reclassify salt as a “risky” food additive, which could have subjected it to severe controls. No company took this threat more seriously — or more personally — than Frito-Lay, Lin explained to Karppanen over their dinner. Three years after he left Frito-Lay, he was still anguished over his inability to effectively change the company’s recipes and practices.
林义山在菲多利公司的那些年正好遇上食品营养倡导者首次对高盐食品展开攻击，联邦政府也开始把食盐重新定义为“危险”食品添加剂，这样一来盐的使用受到了严格控制。再没有哪家公司能比菲多利对此事更重视——或者说更往心里去的了。林义山在晚餐时这样告诉卡尔帕宁。离开菲多利三年之久，他对于自己没能有效调整公司的配方与生产过程仍然苦恼不已。
By chance, I ran across a letter that Lin sent to Karppanen three weeks after that dinner, buried in some files to which I had gained access. Attached to the letter was a memo written when Lin was at Frito-Lay, which detailed some of the company’s efforts in defending salt. I tracked Lin down in Irvine, Calif., where we spent several days going through the internal company memos, strategy papers and handwritten notes he had kept. The documents were evidence of the concern that Lin had for consumers and of the company’s intent on using science not to address the health concerns but to thwart them. While at Frito-Lay, Lin and other company scientists spoke openly about the country’s excessive consumption of sodium and the fact that, as Lin said to me on more than one occasion, “people get addicted to salt.”
一次偶然的机会，我在一堆可供我翻看的文件中找到一封林义山在晚餐后三周写给卡尔帕宁的信。信中附有林义山在菲多利工作时的一份备忘录，详细记录了公司维护用盐的一些作为。我在加州欧文市找到了林义山，我们花了几天时间仔细查看了他保存下来的公司内部备忘录、战略计划和手写的笔记。这些档案是林义山为客户担心的证明，也是公司欲利用科学不去正面解决健康问题，反而企图挡回问题的证据。在菲多利工作期间，林义山和公司其他的科学家公开讨论过全国上下滥用钠盐的现象，而且实际上——林义山不止一次向我提过——人们对盐上瘾了。
Not much had changed by 1986, except Frito-Lay found itself on a rare cold streak. The company had introduced a series of high-profile products that failed miserably. Toppels, a cracker with cheese topping; Stuffers, a shell with a variety of fillings; Rumbles, a bite-size granola snack — they all came and went in a blink, and the company took a $52 million hit. Around that time, the marketing team was joined by Dwight Riskey, an expert on cravings who had been a fellow at the Monell Chemical Senses Center in Philadelphia, where he was part of a team of scientists that found that people could beat their salt habits simply by refraining from salty foods long enough for their taste buds to return to a normal level of sensitivity. He had also done work on the bliss point, showing how a product’s allure is contextual, shaped partly by the other foods a person is eating, and that it changes as people age. This seemed to help explain why Frito-Lay was having so much trouble selling new snacks. The largest single block of customers, the baby boomers, had begun hitting middle age. According to the research, this suggested that their liking for salty snacks — both in the concentration of salt and how much they ate — would be tapering off. Along with the rest of the snack-food industry, Frito-Lay anticipated lower sales because of an aging population, and marketing plans were adjusted to focus even more intently on younger consumers.
1986年，大体情况都没变，除了菲多利公司的销量遇上了罕见寒流。一系列高调推出的新产品都以失败告终。抹了奶酪的饼干Toppels、夹各种馅料的贝壳状点心Stuffers、小燕麦棒零食Rumbles——公司花了5.2千万美金的重磅产品全都昙花一现。那段时期，德怀特·里斯基(Dwight Riskey)加入了销售团队。他是“口腹之欲”的专家，是费城莫奈尔化学感官中心(Monell Chemical Senses Center)的研究员。在那里，他和一队科学家发现，人们可以通过一段时间不吃高盐食物，让味蕾恢复正常灵敏度来改变高盐饮食的习惯。里斯基也做过极乐点的研究，结果显示，一种商品的诱惑度是与环境相关的，部分决定于这个人吃的其他食物，并随年龄增长而改变。这似乎解释了为何菲多利的新零食陷入了困境。菲多利最大的客户群是婴儿潮时期出生的人，而他们已经接近中年。根据研究，这意味着他们对高盐零食（既指盐浓度高，也指食用量大）的热爱逐渐减弱。正如整个零食业，由于客户群年龄增长，零食的销量预计会下降。菲多利调整营销策略，主攻年轻客户。
Except that snack sales didn’t decline as everyone had projected, Frito-Lay’s doomed product launches notwithstanding. Poring over data one day in his home office, trying to understand just who was consuming all the snack food, Riskey realized that he and his colleagues had been misreading things all along. They had been measuring the snacking habits of different age groups and were seeing what they expected to see, that older consumers ate less than those in their 20s. But what they weren’t measuring, Riskey realized, is how those snacking habits of the boomers compared to themselves when they were in their 20s. When he called up a new set of sales data and performed what’s called a cohort study, following a single group over time, a far more encouraging picture — for Frito-Lay, anyway — emerged. The baby boomers were not eating fewer salty snacks as they aged. “In fact, as those people aged, their consumption of all those segments — the cookies, the crackers, the candy, the chips — was going up,” Riskey said. “They were not only eating what they ate when they were younger, they were eating more of it.” In fact, everyone in the country, on average, was eating more salty snacks than they used to. The rate of consumption was edging up about one-third of a pound every year, with the average intake of snacks like chips and cheese crackers pushing past 12 pounds a year.
除了销量没有像大家想象地那样下跌外，菲多利仍继续推出着注定失败的产品。有一天，里斯基在办公室里仔细研读数据，试图弄清到底是哪群客户在买零食。他忽然意识到自己和整个团队一直以来都理解错了。他们研究不同年龄段人吃零食的习惯，只看到了他们期望看到的：中老年客户比20多岁的年轻客户吃零食少。但是里斯基发觉他们没有看到的是：中老年客户与他们20多岁时比，吃零食的习惯有何改变。他要来一批新的销售记录进行队列研究（长期追踪某一特定群体）一个极其振奋人心——菲多利之心——的画面展现在眼前：婴儿潮时期出生的人并不因年龄增长而少吃高盐食品。“实际上，他们年龄大了，所有零食类产品——曲奇、饼干、糖果和薯片——的消费反而更多。”里斯基说道：“他们不仅延续了年轻时的饮食习惯，而且吃得更凶了。”事实是，全国人民的平均高盐零食消耗量都比他们年轻时高——每人每年多吃近三分之一磅（约0.15千克），而像炸薯片和芝士饼干这样的零食，则平均多吃12磅（5.44千克）以上。
Riskey had a theory about what caused this surge: Eating real meals had become a thing of the past. Baby boomers, especially, seemed to have greatly cut down on regular meals. They were skipping breakfast when they had early-morning meetings. They skipped lunch when they then needed to catch up on work because of those meetings. They skipped dinner when their kids stayed out late or grew up and moved out of the house. And when they skipped these meals, they replaced them with snacks. “We looked at this behavior, and said, ‘Oh, my gosh, people were skipping meals right and left,’ ” Riskey told me. “It was amazing.” This led to the next realization, that baby boomers did not represent “a category that is mature, with no growth. This is a category that has huge growth potential.”
里斯基对此有一套解释：吃正常的三餐已变成陈年往事。尤其是婴儿潮一代，吃正餐的次数更是锐减。大清早要开会，他们就不吃早饭；中午要多干活弥补早上开会花掉的时间，他们午饭也不吃了；孩子们晚上不回家或孩子们长大后离开了家，他们又把晚餐放弃了。所有错过的正餐都由零食替代。“我们观察到这种行为后大叹‘天哪，人们横竖是不要吃正餐的’，”里斯基告诉我：“太妙了。”他们于是领悟到：婴儿潮一代并非“熟透的、没有发展空间的消费群体；相反，他们具有巨大的购买潜力。”
The food technicians stopped worrying about inventing new products and instead embraced the industry’s most reliable method for getting consumers to buy more: the line extension. The classic Lay’s potato chips were joined by Salt & Vinegar, Salt & Pepper and Cheddar & Sour Cream. They put out Chili-Cheese-flavored Fritos, and Cheetos were transformed into 21 varieties. Frito-Lay had a formidable research complex near Dallas, where nearly 500 chemists, psychologists and technicians conducted research that cost up to $30 million a year, and the science corps focused intense amounts of resources on questions of crunch, mouth feel and aroma for each of these items. Their tools included a $40,000 device that simulated a chewing mouth to test and perfect the chips, discovering things like the perfect break point: people like a chip that snaps with about four pounds of pressure per square inch.
食品技术人员不再发愁创造新产品了，他们采取了能让客户消费更多的最可靠手段：产品延伸。经典原味乐事薯片加入了盐醋味、椒盐味、切达奶酪与酸奶油味新成员；Fritos玉米片有了辣椒-奶酪口味；奇多更是幻化出21种口味。离达拉斯市不远，菲多利公司有个大得吓人的研究中心。近500名化学、心理学研究者和技术员在此进行研究，每年花费近3000万美元。科研团队集中了大量资源钻研每样产品的脆度、口感和香味。他们的设备中有一台价值4万美元、可模仿人嘴咀嚼的机器。他们用这台机器测试和优化薯片，得到了很多重大发现，比如“完美断点”：在4磅每平方英寸（约0.28千克每平方厘米）的作用力下可断裂的薯片最受人们喜爱。
To get a better feel for their work, I called on Steven Witherly, a food scientist who wrote a fascinating guide for industry insiders titled, “Why Humans Like Junk Food.” I brought him two shopping bags filled with a variety of chips to taste. He zeroed right in on the Cheetos. “This,” Witherly said, “is one of the most marvelously constructed foods on the planet, in terms of pure pleasure.” He ticked off a dozen attributes of the Cheetos that make the brain say more. But the one he focused on most was the puff’s uncanny ability to melt in the mouth. “It’s called vanishing caloric density,” Witherly said. “If something melts down quickly, your brain thinks that there’s no calories in it . . . you can just keep eating it forever.”
为切身体会菲多利的成果，我给史蒂文·威瑟利(Steven Witherly)打了电话。他是一名食品学家，著有专供业内人士参考的一本大名鼎鼎的指南《为什么人类钟爱垃圾食品》(Why Humans Like Junk Food)。我带了两大包各种各样的薯片给他尝。他一下就选中了奇多。“这个，”威瑟利说：“是地球上最了不起的人造食品，至纯享受。”他列举出了奇多让大脑难以抗拒的十几条理由，但他最强调的是这种膨化食品在口中融化的精湛艺术。“这叫‘迅速消失的热量’，”威瑟利说：“如果什么东西迅速在嘴里化掉了，大脑就会认为它不含热量……然后你就永远地吃下去了。”
As for their marketing troubles, in a March 2010 meeting, Frito-Lay executives hastened to tell their Wall Street investors that the 1.4 billion boomers worldwide weren’t being neglected; they were redoubling their efforts to understand exactly what it was that boomers most wanted in a snack chip. Which was basically everything: great taste, maximum bliss but minimal guilt about health and more maturity than puffs. “They snack a lot,” Frito-Lay’s chief marketing officer, Ann Mukherjee, told the investors. “But what they’re looking for is very different. They’re looking for new experiences, real food experiences.” Frito-Lay acquired Stacy’s Pita Chip Company, which was started by a Massachusetts couple who made food-cart sandwiches and started serving pita chips to their customers in the mid-1990s. In Frito-Lay’s hands, the pita chips averaged 270 milligrams of sodium — nearly one-fifth a whole day’s recommended maximum for most American adults — and were a huge hit among boomers.
关于销售上遇到的麻烦，菲多利的主管们在2010年3月的会议上急切地向华尔街投资者表白，他们没有忘记全球那14亿婴儿潮一代；他们正加倍努力试图理解婴儿潮一代对零食薯片的真正期望——其实就是一切：好口味、最大愉悦度、对健康的最小内疚感、比膨化食品更为成熟的口感。“他们吃大量零食，”菲多利首席营销官安·慕克吉(Ann Mukherjee)告诉投资者：“不过他们的追求不同了。他们想要新的体验，真正的食物的体验。”菲多利买了Stacy’s皮塔饼公司(Stacy’s Pita Chip)。Stacy’s是由一对来自马塞诸塞州的夫妇创立的。起初，他们做方便三明治；从90年代中期起，他们开始卖烤小皮塔饼。经菲多利的加工，平均含钠盐270毫克——几乎是成年人每日推荐量的五分之一的小皮塔饼，在婴儿潮一代客户中大获成功。
The Frito-Lay executives also spoke of the company’s ongoing pursuit of a “designer sodium,” which they hoped, in the near future, would take their sodium loads down by 40 percent. No need to worry about lost sales there, the company’s C.E.O., Al Carey, assured their investors. The boomers would see less salt as the green light to snack like never before.
菲多利主管还描述了他们正积极研发的“设计师钠盐”（特殊设计的盐——译注），他们希望在不久的将来，设计师钠盐可以把食品的含钠量降低40%。不用担心销量会下降——公司总裁艾尔·凯里(Al Carey)向投资者打保证。婴儿潮一代会认为“低钠盐”给他们前所未有的零食狂欢亮了绿灯。
There’s a paradox at work here. On the one hand, reduction of sodium in snack foods is commendable. On the other, these changes may well result in consumers eating more. “The big thing that will happen here is removing the barriers for boomers and giving them permission to snack,” Carey said. The prospects for lower-salt snacks were so amazing, he added, that the company had set its sights on using the designer salt to conquer the toughest market of all for snacks: schools. He cited, for example, the school-food initiative championed by Bill Clinton and the American Heart Association, which is seeking to improve the nutrition of school food by limiting its load of salt, sugar and fat. “Imagine this,” Carey said. “A potato chip that tastes great and qualifies for the Clinton-A.H.A. alliance for schools . . . . We think we have ways to do all of this on a potato chip, and imagine getting that product into schools, where children can have this product and grow up with it and feel good about eating it.”
自相矛盾之处是：一方面，降低零食含钠量的行为是值得称赞的；而另一方面，这种改变会让消费者吃更多的零食。凯里说：“关键是它移除了人对零食的心理障碍，允许人们吃零食，”低钠零食的前景如此辉煌，他又补充道，公司甚至着眼于利用“设计师钠盐”打开零食界最顽固的市场：学校。他旁征博引，举了比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)和美国心脏协会发起的学生食品计划的例子。该计划致力于降低学生食品的盐、糖及脂肪含量，提高营养价值。“想像一下，”凯里说：“一片风味绝伦的薯片，符合克林顿-心脏协会联盟对学生食品的要求……我们相信我们有办法做出这样的薯片。再想像一下，这种薯片进军校园，孩子们能够买得到、吃着它长大、同时还感觉良好。”
Carey’s quote reminded me of something I read in the early stages of my reporting, a 24-page report prepared for Frito-Lay in 1957 by a psychologist named Ernest Dichter. The company’s chips, he wrote, were not selling as well as they could for one simple reason: “While people like and enjoy potato chips, they feel guilty about liking them. . . . Unconsciously, people expect to be punished for ‘letting themselves go’ and enjoying them.” Dichter listed seven “fears and resistances” to the chips: “You can’t stop eating them; they’re fattening; they’re not good for you; they’re greasy and messy to eat; they’re too expensive; it’s hard to store the leftovers; and they’re bad for children.” He spent the rest of his memo laying out his prescriptions, which in time would become widely used not just by Frito-Lay but also by the entire industry. Dichter suggested that Frito-Lay avoid using the word “fried” in referring to its chips and adopt instead the more healthful-sounding term “toasted.” To counteract the “fear of letting oneself go,” he suggested repacking the chips into smaller bags. “The more-anxious consumers, the ones who have the deepest fears about their capacity to control their appetite, will tend to sense the function of the new pack and select it,” he said.
凯里的话让我想起在报道最初阶段读过的，菲多利公司心理学家欧内斯特·迪希特(Ernest Dichter)在1957年起草的一篇长达24页的报告。他写道，我们公司的薯片无法卖到其应该卖到的程度，就因为一个原因：人们很喜欢吃薯片，可是对于这种喜欢，他们内疚感十足……潜意识里，人们觉得“放纵自己”享受薯片是会受到惩罚的。迪希特列举了7项“恐惧与抵抗”薯条的原因：你一吃就停不下来了、发胖食品、不健康、吃起来油腻肮脏、太贵、剩下的不易储存、不利于儿童健康。报告的其余部分则是他的解决方案，这在后来不仅广泛应用于菲多利公司，也广泛应用于整个食品业。迪希特建议菲多利避免给薯片扣上“油炸”的帽子，而换用听起来健康些的词：“烤”。为打消人们自我放纵的恐惧，他建议使用小包装。“最纠结的消费者，最担心控制不了自己胃口的人，会意识到新包装的用意并为之掏钱包的。”他说。
Dichter advised Frito-Lay to move its chips out of the realm of between-meals snacking and turn them into an ever-present item in the American diet. “The increased use of potato chips and other Lay’s products as a part of the regular fare served by restaurants and sandwich bars should be encouraged in a concentrated way,” Dichter said, citing a string of examples: “potato chips with soup, with fruit or vegetable juice appetizers; potato chips served as a vegetable on the main dish; potato chips with salad; potato chips with egg dishes for breakfast; potato chips with sandwich orders.”
迪希特建议菲多利公司让薯片突破“饭后零食”的范畴，成为美式饮食中永恒的一部分。“应当大力推动将薯片和其他菲多利产品变成餐馆与三明治柜台的菜单里长期存在的一道菜。”迪希特举了一大串例子：“薯片配浓汤、配水果或蔬菜汁开胃菜、薯片作为主菜中的蔬菜部分、薯片配生菜沙拉、薯片配早餐中的蛋类食品、薯片配三明治。”
In 2011, The New England Journal of Medicine published a study that shed new light on America’s weight gain. The subjects — 120,877 women and men — were all professionals in the health field, and were likely to be more conscious about nutrition, so the findings might well understate the overall trend. Using data back to 1986, the researchers monitored everything the participants ate, as well as their physical activity and smoking. They found that every four years, the participants exercised less, watched TV more and gained an average of 3.35 pounds. The researchers parsed the data by the caloric content of the foods being eaten, and found the top contributors to weight gain included red meat and processed meats, sugar-sweetened beverages and potatoes, including mashed and French fries. But the largest weight-inducing food was the potato chip. The coating of salt, the fat content that rewards the brain with instant feelings of pleasure, the sugar that exists not as an additive but in the starch of the potato itself — all of this combines to make it the perfect addictive food. “The starch is readily absorbed,” Eric Rimm, an associate professor of epidemiology and nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health and one of the study’s authors, told me. “More quickly even than a similar amount of sugar. The starch, in turn, causes the glucose levels in the blood to spike” — which can result in a craving for more.
2011年，《新英格兰医学杂志》(New England Journal of Medicine)发表的一篇研究为美国人的体重增长作出了新的解释。120877名研究对象均在健康与卫生相关领域工作，他们很有可能比一般人对营养更在意，所以调查结果也许还低估了整体趋势。利用从1986年开始记录的数据，研究者追踪了参与者的一切饮食、锻炼和吸烟状况。他们发现，每过4年，参与者锻炼时间减少、看电视时间增多、体重平均增长3.35磅（1.52千克）。分析过参与者吃的食物的热量后，研究者发现最让人增重的食品包括红肉和加工肉类、含糖饮料、土豆（包括土豆泥和炸薯条）。不过，第一大“功臣”是薯片。表面包裹的盐、可瞬间奖赏大脑以愉悦感的脂肪，非添加但本身存在于土豆淀粉中的糖——联合打造出完美的成瘾性食品。“淀粉极易吸收，”哈佛公共卫生学院(Harvard School of Public Health)流行病与营养学系副教授、上述研究的作者之一埃里克·里姆(Eric Rimm)告诉我说：“甚至比等量糖吸收得更快，一口接一口的淀粉轮番让血糖飙升。”——结果就是人对薯片渴望更甚。
If Americans snacked only occasionally, and in small amounts, this would not present the enormous problem that it does. But because so much money and effort has been invested over decades in engineering and then relentlessly selling these products, the effects are seemingly impossible to unwind. More than 30 years have passed since Robert Lin first tangled with Frito-Lay on the imperative of the company to deal with the formulation of its snacks, but as we sat at his dining-room table, sifting through his records, the feelings of regret still played on his face. In his view, three decades had been lost, time that he and a lot of other smart scientists could have spent searching for ways to ease the addiction to salt, sugar and fat. “I couldn’t do much about it,” he told me. “I feel so sorry for the public.”
如果美国人只是偶尔、少量地吃些零食，问题就不会如现在这般严重。然而，数十年来那么多财力和精力都投入到了开发零食和不屈不挠地兜售零食上，结局看似已不可扭转。如今，距林义山要求菲多利改换零食配方而与公司首次发生纠葛已过去30年之久。但当我们坐在他的餐桌前，细筛当年的记录时，他的脸上仍写着内心的后悔。在他看来，30年的光阴浪费掉了，他和许多具慧眼的科学家本可以利用这些年寻找减轻盐、糖和脂肪成瘾的办法。“我没能做出很多努力，”他对我说：“我觉得特别对不起公众。”
IV. ‘These People Need a Lot of Things, but They Don’t Need a Coke.’
IV. “这些人需要很多东西，但不需要可乐。”
The growing attention Americans are paying to what they put into their mouths has touched off a new scramble by the processed-food companies to address health concerns. Pressed by the Obama administration and consumers, Kraft, Nestlé, Pepsi, Campbell and General Mills, among others, have begun to trim the loads of salt, sugar and fat in many products. And with consumer advocates pushing for more government intervention, Coca-Cola made headlines in January by releasing ads that promoted its bottled water and low-calorie drinks as a way to counter obesity. Predictably, the ads drew a new volley of scorn from critics who pointed to the company’s continuing drive to sell sugary Coke.
美国人对吃到自己口中的食物日渐关注，这触发了加工食品公司解决食品健康问题的一场新的喧嚣。在奥巴马(Obama)政府和消费者的压力下，卡夫、雀巢(Nestlé)、百事、金宝、通用磨坊等等，开始减少盐、糖和脂肪在许多产品中的用量。因消费者代言人敦促政府进行更多的干预，今年1月可口可乐的一条广告成了新闻头条：他们促销瓶装水和低热量饮料——抗击肥胖症。不出所料，这条广告招来了批评家的一片嘲讽，他们指出，可口可乐公司还是在积极促销高糖的可乐。
One of the other executives I spoke with at length was Jeffrey Dunn, who, in 2001, at age 44, was directing more than half of Coca-Cola’s $20 billion in annual sales as president and chief operating officer in both North and South America. In an effort to control as much market share as possible, Coke extended its aggressive marketing to especially poor or vulnerable areas of the U.S., like New Orleans — where people were drinking twice as much Coke as the national average — or Rome, Ga., where the per capita intake was nearly three Cokes a day. In Coke’s headquarters in Atlanta, the biggest consumers were referred to as “heavy users.” “The other model we use was called ‘drinks and drinkers,’ ” Dunn said. “How many drinkers do I have? And how many drinks do they drink? If you lost one of those heavy users, if somebody just decided to stop drinking Coke, how many drinkers would you have to get, at low velocity, to make up for that heavy user? The answer is a lot. It’s more efficient to get my existing users to drink more.”
另一位与我深入交谈的主管是杰弗里·邓恩(Jeffrey Dunn)。2001年，44岁的邓恩作为可口可乐公司北美和南美部的主席及首席运营官，带来的收入超过公司200亿美元年收入的一半。为掌控尽可能多的市场份额，可口可乐野心勃勃地把市场延伸到美国最穷、最易被诱惑的地区，比如新奥尔良——这里的人们喝可乐的量是全国平均值的两倍；或是人均每天喝三罐可乐的佐治亚州罗马市。在亚特兰大市的可口可乐总部，消费最多的客户被称作“重度消费者”。“我们用的另外一个模型叫做‘饮料与喝饮料者’。”邓恩说道：“我们有多少喝饮料者？喝饮料者能喝多少饮料？如果你失去了一位重度消费者，如果他决计不再喝可乐，你需要再引入多少喝饮料者——慢慢地——来弥补失去重度消费者的损失？答案是：需要很多。所以最行之有效的办法是让已有的客户再多喝一些。”
One of Dunn’s lieutenants, Todd Putman, who worked at Coca-Cola from 1997 to 2001, said the goal became much larger than merely beating the rival brands; Coca-Cola strove to outsell every other thing people drank, including milk and water. The marketing division’s efforts boiled down to one question, Putman said: “How can we drive more ounces into more bodies more often?” (In response to Putman’s remarks, Coke said its goals have changed and that it now focuses on providing consumers with more low- or no-calorie products.)
托德·普特曼(Todd Putman)是邓恩的一个助手，他曾于1997至2001年间在可口可乐工作。普特曼说公司的目标远不止是打败对手品牌，他们要比一切喝的东西，包括牛奶和水，都卖得好。市场部的努力最后浓缩成了一点，普特曼说：“就是我们如何把更多的饮料更经常地注入更多的人体。”（可口可乐对普特曼这段叙述的回应是：目标已变，公司现在关注的是为消费者提供更多低热量或零热量饮料。）
In his capacity, Dunn was making frequent trips to Brazil, where the company had recently begun a push to increase consumption of Coke among the many Brazilians living in favelas. The company’s strategy was to repackage Coke into smaller, more affordable 6.7-ounce bottles, just 20 cents each. Coke was not alone in seeing Brazil as a potential boon; Nestlé began deploying battalions of women to travel poor neighborhoods, hawking American-style processed foods door to door. But Coke was Dunn’s concern, and on one trip, as he walked through one of the impoverished areas, he had an epiphany. “A voice in my head says, ‘These people need a lot of things, but they don’t need a Coke.’ I almost threw up.”
在职务范围内，邓恩到巴西出了很多趟差，那时公司刚开始试图让住在贫民窟里的巴西人消费更多的可乐。策略是把可乐装进小号的、更便宜的6.7盎司（0.2升）小罐里，每罐只卖20美分。不只可口可乐看出来巴西是个潜在的大买家，雀巢也正部署女性大军驶入巴西穷人区，沿街叫卖美式加工食品。不过邓恩关心的只有可乐。有一次穿行于贫困区时，他忽然顿悟。“我脑子里有个声音说：‘这些人需要很多东西，但不需要可乐。’我险些呕吐。”
Dunn returned to Atlanta, determined to make some changes. He didn’t want to abandon the soda business, but he did want to try to steer the company into a more healthful mode, and one of the things he pushed for was to stop marketing Coke in public schools. The independent companies that bottled Coke viewed his plans as reactionary. A director of one bottler wrote a letter to Coke’s chief executive and board asking for Dunn’s head. “He said what I had done was the worst thing he had seen in 50 years in the business,” Dunn said. “Just to placate these crazy leftist school districts who were trying to keep people from having their Coke. He said I was an embarrassment to the company, and I should be fired.” In February 2004, he was.
邓恩回到亚特兰大，决心做些改变。他不想放弃汽水业，但企图把公司转向健康一些的模式。他极力推荐的一件事情就是停止在学校出售可乐。给可乐做包装的独立公司皆认定他的计划实在是反动。其中一家公司的主管给可口可乐总裁和董事会写信要邓恩的脑袋。“他说我要做的事，是他入行50年来见过最差劲的。”邓恩叙述：“仅仅为了安抚那些疯狂的，使劲阻止人们喝可乐的左翼学区。他说我真是公司的耻辱，应该被炒鱿鱼。”2004年2月，邓恩真的被解雇了。
Dunn told me that talking about Coke’s business today was by no means easy and, because he continues to work in the food business, not without risk. “You really don’t want them mad at you,” he said. “And I don’t mean that, like, I’m going to end up at the bottom of the bay. But they don’t have a sense of humor when it comes to this stuff. They’re a very, very aggressive company.”
邓恩告诉我，直到现在，谈论可口可乐的事情也绝不容易。并且由于他还在食品业活跃，风险依然存在。“我绝不想惹怒他们，”他说：“我不愿意沉尸海底。但对于这类事件，他们一点儿幽默感没有，是非常非常争强好胜的公司。”
When I met with Dunn, he told me not just about his years at Coke but also about his new marketing venture. In April 2010, he met with three executives from Madison Dearborn Partners, a private-equity firm based in Chicago with a wide-ranging portfolio of investments. They recently hired Dunn to run one of their newest acquisitions — a food producer in the San Joaquin Valley. As they sat in the hotel’s meeting room, the men listened to Dunn’s marketing pitch. He talked about giving the product a personality that was bold and irreverent, conveying the idea that this was the ultimate snack food. He went into detail on how he would target a special segment of the 146 million Americans who are regular snackers — mothers, children, young professionals — people, he said, who “keep their snacking ritual fresh by trying a new food product when it catches their attention.”
邓恩在与我的会面中不仅谈论了在可口可乐公司工作的岁月，也提到了他新的商业活动。2010年4月，他会见了麦迪逊·迪尔伯恩投资(Madison Dearborn Partners)的三位主管。这是一家建在芝加哥的私募股权公司，经营过种类广泛的投资。那时他们才雇了邓恩运营新并购的公司：圣华金河谷的一家食品厂。他们坐在宾馆的会议室里，听邓恩讲述营销方法。邓恩说要给产品冠以大胆无礼的个性，旨在说明这是一款终极零食。接着他详细说明了如何锁定那特殊的1.46亿爱吃零食的人们——母亲、孩子、年轻专业人士。这些人希望“通过尝试吸引眼球的新产品让吃零食的习惯常保新鲜。”
He explained how he would deploy strategic storytelling in the ad campaign for this snack, using a key phrase that had been developed with much calculation: “Eat ’Em Like Junk Food.”
邓恩解释了他将如何在产品的广告宣传中战略性地讲个故事——用一个仔细斟酌过的关键句：“像吃垃圾食品一样吃它。”
After 45 minutes, Dunn clicked off the last slide and thanked the men for coming. Madison’s portfolio contained the largest Burger King franchise in the world, the Ruth’s Chris Steak House chain and a processed-food maker called AdvancePierre whose lineup includes the Jamwich, a peanut-butter-and-jelly contrivance that comes frozen, crustless and embedded with four kinds of sugars.
45分钟后，邓恩的鼠标点完了最后一张幻灯片，他对前来参加的诸位表示了感谢。麦迪逊曾做过汉堡王(Burger King)在全世界最大的特许经营，经营过茹丝葵牛排(Ruth’s Chris Steak House)连锁店和一家名为AdvancePierre的加工食品公司（产品有果酱三明治[Jamwich]：一种夹花生酱和果酱的冷冻三明治，无脆硬外皮，含四种糖类。）
The snack that Dunn was proposing to sell: carrots. Plain, fresh carrots. No added sugar. No creamy sauce or dips. No salt. Just baby carrots, washed, bagged, then sold into the deadly dull produce aisle.
邓恩想卖的东西是：胡萝卜。没味道的新鲜胡萝卜。没有糖、没有奶油蘸酱、没有盐。就是小胡萝卜。洗干净、装袋、搁在最无聊食品的货架上卖。
“We act like a snack, not a vegetable,” he told the investors. “We exploit the rules of junk food to fuel the baby-carrot conversation. We are pro-junk-food behavior but anti-junk-food establishment.”
“我们要做出零食——而非蔬菜的架势来。”他告诉投资者：“我们利用卖垃圾食品的原则来为小胡萝卜的宣传添加燃料。我们以推销垃圾食品的方式进行反垃圾食品行动。”
The investors were thinking only about sales. They had already bought one of the two biggest farm producers of baby carrots in the country, and they’d hired Dunn to run the whole operation. Now, after his pitch, they were relieved. Dunn had figured out that using the industry’s own marketing ploys would work better than anything else. He drew from the bag of tricks that he mastered in his 20 years at Coca-Cola, where he learned one of the most critical rules in processed food: The selling of food matters as much as the food itself.
投资者脑子里只有销量。他们已经购买了全国最大两家小胡萝卜农场中的一家，现在雇邓恩来掌管整个运营过程。邓恩陈述完毕后，他们长舒了一口气。邓恩意识到，利用食品业原有的营销方式推销他们的新产品是最好不过的方法。他从自己在可口可乐公司积累了20年的经验百宝箱中挑挑拣拣。可口可乐让他学会了加工食品业的一条不二法则：卖的方法远比食品本身重要。
Later, describing his new line of work, Dunn told me he was doing penance for his Coca-Cola years. “I’m paying my karmic debt,” he said.
后来，在描述新工作的时候，邓恩告诉我，他在为他的可口可乐时代做补偿。“我在还业债。”他说。