In the days following the bombings at the Boston Marathon, speculation online regarding the identity and motive of the unknown perpetrator or perpetrators was rampant. And once the Tsarnaev brothers were identified and the manhunt came to a close, the speculation didn’t cease. It took a new form. A sampling: Maybe the brothers Tsarnaev were just patsies, fall guys set up to take the heat for a mysterious Saudi with high-level connections; or maybe they were innocent, but instead of the Saudis, the actual bomber had acted on behalf of a rogue branch of our own government; or what if the Tsarnaevs were behind the attacks, but were secretly working for a larger organization?
数月前，在波士顿马拉松赛爆炸事件之后，网上关于未知肇事者或肇事者身份和动机的各种猜测甚嚣尘上。随着特萨尔纳伊夫(Tsarnaev)兄弟被指认以及搜捕行动落下帷幕，这些纷议并没有告一段落，而是改头换面以另一种形式出现。例如人们猜测：特萨尔纳伊夫兄弟只是盲从的小喽啰，受人陷害充当了某个跟高层有关系的神秘沙特人士的替罪羊；也许他们是无辜的，但爆炸案的真正元凶不是沙特人，而是美国政府某个素行不端的分支部门；又或者，这些袭击确为特萨尔纳伊夫兄弟所为，但他们也只是奉某个更庞大的秘密组织之命行动？
Crazy as these theories are, those propagating them are not — they’re quite normal, in fact. But recent scientific research tells us this much: if you think one of the theories above is plausible, you probably feel the same way about the others, even though they contradict one another. And it’s very likely that this isn’t the only news story that makes you feel as if shadowy forces are behind major world events.
虽然这些说法听起来荒诞不经，但它们的传播者都相当理智。最近的科学研究告诉我们：如果在你眼里其中某一论调不无道理，那么说不定你也会觉得其他的说法并不离谱——即使它们彼此矛盾。而且，有很大的可能，除了这条新闻之外，还有很多别的报道都让你感觉在重大的全球性事件的背后，仿佛有幕后黑手在翻云覆雨。
“The best predictor of belief in a conspiracy theory is belief in other conspiracy theories,” says Viren Swami, a psychology professor who studies conspiracy belief at the University of Westminster in England. Psychologists say that’s because a conspiracy theory isn’t so much a response to a single event as it is an expression of an overarching worldview.
“要预测一个人是不是阴谋论的信奉者，最好的方法是看他是否也相信别的阴谋论，”在英国威斯敏斯特大学(University of Westminster)从事阴谋论信仰研究的心理学教授维伦·斯瓦米(Viren Swami)说。心理学家们解释道，这是由于阴谋论并不是针对某一单一事件的反应，它更多地表达了全局性的世界观。
As Richard Hofstadter wrote in his seminal 1965 book, “The Paranoid Style in American Politics,” conspiracy theories, especially those involving meddlesome foreigners, are a favorite pastime in this nation. Americans have always had the sneaking suspicion that somebody was out to get us — be it Freemasons, Catholics or communists. But in recent years, it seems as if every tragedy comes with a round of yarn-spinning, as the Web fills with stories about “false flag” attacks and “crisis actors” — not mere theorizing but arguments for the existence of a completely alternate version of reality.
正如理查德·霍夫斯塔特(Richard Hofstadter)在他那本出版于1965年的影响深远的著作《美国政治中的偏执》(The Paranoid Style in American Politics)中所写，阴谋论是这个国家中最受欢迎的消遣，在涉及某些好惹是生非的外国人时尤其如此。美国人总是暗自猜疑别人要对自己不利——这个“别人”可能是共济会会员、天主教徒，也可能是共产主义者。但近年来，每次有悲剧性事件发生时，网络上关于“假旗”(false flag)攻击和“危机演员”(crisis actors)的传闻都会铺天盖地——不是单纯地提出某个说法，而是就事实是否存在着迥异的另一个版本而展开辩论。
Since Hofstadter’s book was published, our access to information has vastly improved, which you would think would have helped minimize such wild speculation. But according to recent scientific research on the matter, it most likely only serves to make theories more convincing to the public. What’s even more surprising is that this sort of theorizing isn’t limited to those on the margins. Perfectly sane minds possess an incredible capacity for developing narratives, and even some of the wildest conspiracy theories can be grounded in rational thinking, which makes them that much more pernicious. Consider this: 63 percent of registered American voters believe in at least one political conspiracy theory, according to a recent poll conducted by Fairleigh Dickinson University.
自从霍夫施塔特著作出版后，我们获取信息的能力已有大幅改善，这或许会令你以为它将有助于减少这种捕风捉影的猜测。然而，根据该领域内最新的科学研究，有很大的可能，它不过是增强了阴谋论对公众的说服力而已。更令人惊讶的是，阴谋论的参与者并不仅限于社会边缘人士。那些绘声绘色的叙述表明其作者具有神智健全的头脑和强大的叙事能力，甚至某些最荒诞的阴谋论也可能建立在理性思维的基础之上，而这一切都加剧了阴谋论的危害性。请想一想：根据费尔里·狄金生大学(Fairleigh Dickinson University)近期进行的一项调查，有63%的美国登记选民至少相信一个政治阴谋论。
While psychologists can’t know exactly what goes on inside our heads, they have, through surveys and laboratory studies, come up with a set of traits that correlate well with conspiracy belief. In 2010, Swami and a co-author summarized this research in The Psychologist, a scientific journal. They found, perhaps surprisingly, that believers are more likely to be cynical about the world in general and politics in particular. Conspiracy theories also seem to be more compelling to those with low self-worth, especially with regard to their sense of agency in the world at large. Conspiracy theories appear to be a way of reacting to uncertainty and powerlessness.
虽然心理学家无法确知我们的头脑究竟如何运作，但他们已通过调查和实验室研究，提出了一系列与阴谋论信仰密切相关的特质。2010年，斯瓦米与共同作者在科学期刊《心理学家》(The Psychologist)上对该研究进行了综述。他们发现，阴谋论的信徒更可能是对整个世界尤其是在政治层面持愤世嫉俗态度的人（这一点也许会令人感到惊讶）。此外，阴谋论在自我价值感（特别是对世界政府机构的总体观感）较低的人中比较有市场。人们似乎是将阴谋论当做了一种应对不确定性和无力感的方式。
Economic recessions, terrorist attacks and natural disasters are massive, looming threats, but we have little power over when they occur or how or what happens afterward. In these moments of powerlessness and uncertainty, a part of the brain called the amygdala kicks into action. Paul Whalen, a scientist at Dartmouth College who studies the amygdala, says it doesn’t exactly do anything on its own. Instead, the amygdala jump-starts the rest of the brain into analytical overdrive — prompting repeated reassessments of information in an attempt to create a coherent and understandable narrative, to understand what just happened, what threats still exist and what should be done now. This may be a useful way to understand how, writ large, the brain’s capacity for generating new narratives after shocking events can contribute to so much paranoia in this country.
经济衰退、恐怖袭击和自然灾害都是随时可能袭来的巨大威胁，但我们对它们何时、如何发生及其后果都无能为力。在这些被无力感和不确定性主宰的时刻，脑中一个名为杏仁核的区域就开始活跃。达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth College)的科学家保罗·惠伦(Paul Whalen)表示，杏仁核基本上无法独立发挥作用，相反，它会发动其他脑区进入过度分析状态——反复评估信息，企图建立一段连贯易懂的情节，从而理顺刚刚发生了些什么，仍然存在哪些威胁，以及现在应该做些什么。上述解释有助于理解在发生了令人震惊的事件后，脑部编造“新故事”的能力如何导致美国出现了如此多的偏执现象。
“If you know the truth and others don’t, that’s one way you can reassert feelings of having agency,” Swami says. It can be comforting to do your own research even if that research is flawed. It feels good to be the wise old goat in a flock of sheep.
“如果你掌握着其他人不知道的真相，你将可以借此重申对政府机构的观感，”斯瓦米说。自己挖掘真相可以带来心理上的安慰，即使这类“研究”并非无懈可击，也不会影响众人皆醉我独醒的美好感觉。
Surprisingly, Swami’s work has also turned up a correlation between conspiracy theorizing and strong support of democratic principles. But this isn’t quite so strange if you consider the context. Kathryn Olmsted, a historian at the University of California, Davis, says that conspiracy theories wouldn’t exist in a world in which real conspiracies don’t exist. And those conspiracies — Watergate or the Iran-contra Affair — often involve manipulating and circumventing the democratic process. Even people who believe that the Sandy Hook shooting was actually a drama staged by actors couch their arguments in concern for the preservation of the Second Amendment.
令人惊讶的是，斯瓦米的工作还发现，阴谋论的建立与民主准则获得大力支持有关。但是，考虑到其前因后果，这也不足为奇。加州大学戴维斯分校(University of California, Davis)的历史学家凯瑟琳·奥姆斯特德(Kathryn Olmsted)说，只有在本就存在真正阴谋的世界里，阴谋论才会有容身之地。而真实的阴谋——水门事件、伊朗门事件等——往往涉及对民主进程的操纵和规避。甚至在那些认为桑迪·胡克小学(Sandy Hook)枪击案实际上是演员们上演的一出戏码的人中，辩论的焦点也在于《第二修正案》(Second Amendment)的保留与否。
Our access to high-quality information has not, unfortunately, ushered in an age in which disagreements of this sort can easily be solved with a quick Google search. In fact, the Internet has made things worse. Confirmation bias — the tendency to pay more attention to evidence that supports what you already believe — is a well-documented and common human failing. People have been writing about it for centuries. In recent years, though, researchers have found that confirmation bias is not easy to overcome. You can’t just drown it in facts.
不幸的是，在这个可通过谷歌搜索迅速解决此类争议的时代里，我们并没能充分获取高质量的信息。事实上，互联网还使情况进一步恶化。确认偏误(Confirmation bias)是指对可支持自己已有观念的证据更为重视的倾向，这是一种世人共有屡见不鲜的人性弱点。几个世纪以来的人类历史已经反复地给出了证明。但是，近年来，研究人员发现，确认偏误很难克服，无法简单地通过灌输大量事实来纠正。
In 2006, the political scientists Brendan Nyhan and Jason Reifler identified a phenomenon called the “backfire effect.” They showed that efforts to debunk inaccurate political information can leave people more convinced that false information is true than they would have been otherwise. Nyhan isn’t sure why this happens, but it appears to be more prevalent when the bad information helps bolster a favored worldview or ideology.
2006年，政治学者布伦丹·奈恩(Brendan Nyhan)和贾森·雷夫勒(Jason Reifler)发现了一种名为“逆火效应”(backfire effect)的现象。他们指出，那些致力于澄清不准确政治信息的努力反而会让人们更加坚信那些虚假信息。奈恩无法确定为何会发生这种效应，但是，当不良信息鼓吹的是某一受欢迎的世界观或意识形态时，该效应就会更加普遍。
In that way, Swami says, the Internet and other media have helped perpetuate paranoia. Not only does more exposure to these alternative narratives help engender belief in conspiracies, he says, but the Internet’s tendency toward tribalism helps reinforce misguided beliefs.
斯瓦米说，如此一来，互联网和其他媒体就助长了偏执的延续。除了更多地接触此类论调会使人们更容易相信阴谋论外，互联网的“站队”倾向对本已受到误导的观念也有巩固作用。
And that’s a problem. Because while believing George W. Bush helped plan the Sept. 11 attacks might make you feel in control, it doesn’t actually make you so. Earlier this year, Karen Douglas, a University of Kent psychologist, along with a student, published research in which they exposed people to conspiracy theories about climate change and the death of Princess Diana. Those who got information supporting the theories but not information debunking them were more likely to withdraw from participation in politics and were less likely to take action to reduce their carbon footprints.
这就造成了一个问题。因为，认定乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)协助策划了911恐怖袭击或许会让你“觉得”一切尽在掌握，但它并不会真的让你更强大。今年早些时候，肯特大学(University of Kent)的心理学家卡伦·道格拉斯(Karen Douglas)与一名学生共同发表了一项研究，在这项研究中，他们向参与者们灌输了关于气候变化和戴安娜王妃之死的阴谋论。结果，那些只了解支持阴谋论的信息，而对与其对立的资料一无所知的人更容易退出政治活动，他们采取行动减少碳足迹的可能性也较小。
Alex Jones, a syndicated radio host, can build fame as a conspiracy peddler; politicians can hint at conspiracies for votes and leverage; but if conspiracy theories are a tool the average person uses to reclaim his sense of agency and access to democracy, it’s an ineffective tool. It can even have dangerous health implications. For example, research has shown that African-Americans who believe AIDS is a weapon loosed on them by the government (remembering the abuses of the Tuskegee experiment) are less likely to practice protected sex. And if you believe that governments or corporations are hiding evidence that vaccines harm children, you’re less likely to have your children vaccinated. The result: pockets of measles and whooping-cough infections and a few deaths in places with low child-vaccination rates.
电台主持人亚历克斯·琼斯(Alex Jones)借助散布阴谋论而声名大噪；政治家也可能利用阴谋论来谋取选票和优势；但作为普通人宣传自己对政府机构的观点并实现民主的工具，阴谋论毫无建树。它甚至可能具有危险的健康影响。例如，研究表明，那些相信艾滋病是政府向他们施放的武器（塔斯基吉实验的恶行仍历历在目）的非洲裔美国人采取有保护性行为的可能性就比较低。如果你相信政府或企业都在隐瞒那些表明疫苗对儿童有害的证据，你就不太可能让你的子女接种疫苗。而其结果就是：在儿童疫苗接种率较低的地区，麻疹、百日咳感染和一些死亡集中发生。
Psychologists aren’t sure whether powerlessness causes conspiracy theories or vice versa. Either way, the current scientific thinking suggests these beliefs are nothing more than an extreme form of cynicism, a turning away from politics and traditional media — which only perpetuates the problem.
心理学家尚无法确定究竟是无力感导致了阴谋论，还是反之。无论是上述哪种情况，当前的科学思维表明，这些信念无非是犬儒主义的一种极端形式，一种对政治和传统媒体的疏离——而这只会让问题持续下去。