HERE’S an understatement: It isn’t easy being an Asian-American actor in Hollywood. Despite some progress made on the small screen — thanks, “Fresh Off the Boat”! — a majority of roles that are offered to Asian-Americans are limited to stereotypes that wouldn’t look out of place in an ’80s John Hughes comedy.
有这样一种轻描淡写的说法：在好莱坞当个美籍亚裔演员并不容易。尽管在小屏幕上取得了一些进展——感谢《菜鸟新移民》(Fresh Off the Boat)！——但美籍亚裔演员接到的角色基本局限于某些刻板的形象，即使放在上世纪80年代约翰·休斯(John Hughes)导演的喜剧片里也不会有违和感。
This problem is even worse when roles that originated as Asian characters end up going to white actors. Unfortunately, these casting decisions are not a relic of Hollywood’s past, like Mickey Rooney’s portrayal of I. Y. Yunioshi in “Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” but continue right up to the present.
还有更糟糕的情况：一些角色的人物设定原本是亚洲人，最后却由白人演员饰演。不幸的是，此类选角决策并非好莱坞的历史遗迹——譬如米基·鲁尼(Mickey Rooney)在《蒂凡尼的早餐》里扮演I·Y·国吉(I. Y. Yunioshi)——而是一直持续到现在的现实。
Last week Disney and Marvel Studios released the trailer for “Doctor Strange,” an adaptation of the Marvel comic. After exhausting every “white man finds enlightenment in the Orient” trope in less than two minutes, the trailer presents Tilda Swinton as the Ancient One, a Tibetan male mystic in the comics. Though her casting was no secret, there was something unsettling about the sight of Ms. Swinton’s clean-shaven head and “mystical” Asian garments. It recalled jarring memories of David Carradine from “Kung Fu,” the 1970s television series that, coincidentally, was itself a whitewashed version of a Bruce Lee concept.
上周，迪士尼(Disney)和漫威电影公司(Marvel Studios)发布了改编自漫威漫画的《奇异博士》(Doctor Strange)的预告片。用不到两分钟时间着力阐释了每个“白人都会从东方得到启示”这一常见主题之后，该预告片隆重推出了由蒂尔达·斯温顿(Tilda Swinton)扮演的古一(Ancient One)——漫画里的那个藏族男法师。选择斯温顿出演古一并非什么秘密，但她的扮相——比如剃得干干静静的光头和“充满神秘气息”的亚洲服饰——还是会让人感到些许不安。这勾起了人们关于大卫·卡拉丁(David Carradine)在上世纪70年代主演电视剧《功夫》(Kung Fu)的古怪回忆，而《功夫》本身正是李小龙概念的“洗白”版本。
A few days later, DreamWorks and Paramount provided a glimpse of Scarlett Johansson as the cyborg Motoko Kusanagi in their adaptation of the Japanese anime classic “Ghost in the Shell.” The image coincided with reports that producers considered using digital tools to make Ms. Johansson look more Asian — basically, yellowface for the digital age.
几天后，梦工厂(DreamWorks)和派拉蒙(Paramount)让外界得以一窥斯嘉丽·约翰逊(Scarlett Johansson)在改编自日本经典漫画故事的《攻壳机动队》(Ghost in the Shell)中所饰电子人草薙元子(Motoko Kusanagi)的真容。与此同时，有媒体报道称，制作团队考虑使用数字化工具来让约翰逊看上去更像亚洲人——基本上就是数字时代的涂黄面庞。
This one-two punch of white actors playing Asian characters showed how invisible Asian-Americans continue to be in Hollywood. (Not to be left out of the whitewashing news, Lionsgate also revealed the first images of Elizabeth Banks as Rita Repulsa, another originally Asian character, in its gritty “Power Rangers” reboot.)
由白人演员扮演亚裔角色的两个案例接连出现，说明美籍亚裔演员在好莱坞犹如透明人。（为了追赶“洗白”热潮，狮门影业[Lionsgate]也发布了伊丽莎白·班克斯[Elizabeth Banks]在其翻拍的真人版《恐龙战队》(Power Rangers)里扮演的丽达女王[Rita Repulsa]的首张剧照，这一角色最初的人物设定也是亚裔。）
Why is the erasure of Asians still an acceptable practice in Hollywood? It’s not that people don’t notice: Just last year, Emma Stone played a Chinese-Hawaiian character named Allison Ng in Cameron Crowe’s critically derided “Aloha.” While that film incited similar outrage (and tepid box office interest), no national conversation about racist casting policies took place.
在好莱坞，为什么抹去亚裔痕迹的做法仍然能够行得通？大家并不是没注意到这种情况：就在去年，艾玛·斯通(Emma Stone)在卡梅伦·克罗(Cameron Crowe)那部遭到世人取笑的作品《阿罗哈》(Aloha)里扮演了拥有华裔和夏威夷原住民血统的艾莉森·吴(Allison Ng)。虽然该片引发了类似的愤怒情绪（票房表现平平），但却没人引申开去，讨论选角政策中的种族主义。
Obviously, Asian-Americans are not the only victims of Hollywood’s continuing penchant for whitewashing. Films like “Pan” and “The Lone Ranger” featured white actors playing Native Americans, while “Gods of Egypt” and “Exodus: Gods and Kings” continue the long tradition of Caucasians playing Egyptians.
显然，亚裔美国人并非好莱坞多年来的“洗白”嗜好的唯一受害族群。《小飞侠》(Pan)、《独行侠》(The Lone Ranger)等电影，是由白人演员扮演美国原住民的典型案例；《埃及众神战》(Gods of Egypt)和《出埃及記：天地王者》(Exodus: Gods and Kings)则延续了长久以来的由白人扮演埃及人的传统。
In all these cases, the filmmakers fall back on the same tired arguments. Often, they insist that movies with minorities in lead roles are gambles. When doing press for “Exodus,” the director Ridley Scott said: “I can’t mount a film of this budget" and announce that “my lead actor is Mohammad so-and-so from such-and-such.”
在所有这些例子中，制片人们都用千篇一律、令人厌倦的理由来为自己辩护。他们常常坚称，电影的主演阵容里如果有人来自少数群体，那便是一场赌博。《出埃及记》的导演雷利·史考特(Ridley Scott)出席新闻发布会时说：“我不能着手拍摄一部预算这么高的电影”，然后宣布“主演是来自哪里哪里的什么什么穆罕默德”。
When the screenwriter Max Landis took to YouTube to explain the “Ghost in the Shell” casting, he used a similar argument. “There are no A-list female Asian celebrities right now on an international level,” he said, admonishing viewers for “not understanding how the industry works.”
当编剧麦克斯·兰迪斯(Max Landis)现身Youtube，就《攻壳机动队》的选角问题作出解释时，用的也是类似的理由。兰迪斯说“目前还没有具备国际影响力的一流亚裔明星”，他还责怪观众“不了解这个行业如何运作”。
Mr. Landis’s argument closely tracks a statement by the screenwriter Aaron Sorkin. In a leaked email exchange with studio heads, he complained about the difficulty of adapting “Flash Boys,” Michael Lewis’s book about the Wall Street executive Bradley Katsuyama, because “there aren’t any Asian movie stars.”
兰迪斯的理由和编剧亚伦·索尔金(Aaron Sorkin)观点一脉相承。在一封遭到泄露的邮件中，索尔金向电影工作室负责人抱怨说，迈克尔·刘易斯那本以华尔街高管布拉德·胜山(Bradley Katsuyama)为主角的《闪击者》(Flash Boys)难于改编，因为“根本没有亚裔电影明星”。
Hollywood seems untroubled by these arguments. It’s not about race, they say; the only color they see is green: The reason Asian-American actors are not cast to front these films is because not any of them have a box office track record.
这些争辩似乎并未对好莱坞构成困扰。他们说，这与种族无关；他们所看到的唯一颜色就是绿色：没选择美籍亚裔演员来主演前述电影，是因为这些演员中没有哪一个有着良好的票房记录。
But they’re wrong. If minorities are box office risks, what accounts for the success of the “Fast and Furious” franchise, which presented a broadly diverse team, behind and in front of the camera? Over seven movies it has grossed nearly $4 billion worldwide. In fact, a recent study by the Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles, found that films with diverse leads not only resulted in higher box office numbers but also higher returns of investment for studios and producers.
但他们错了。如果少数族裔演员意味着票房风险，那么幕前幕后团队的构成都相当多元化的《速度与激情》(Fast and Furious)系列的成功又作何解释？该系列的7部电影在全球范围内收获了将近40亿美元票房。事实上，加州大学洛杉矶分校拉尔夫·J·邦奇非裔美国人研究中心(Ralph J. Bunche Center forAfrican American Studies)最近开展的一项研究发现，主演阵容多元化的电影不仅能带来更高的票房收入，还能让电影工作室和制片人获得更高的投资回报。
And Hollywood’s argument is circular: If Asian-Americans — and other minority actors more broadly — are not even allowed to be in a movie, how can they build the necessary box office clout in the first place? To make matters worse, instead of trying to use their lofty positions in the industry to push for change, Hollywood players like Mr. Landis and Mr. Sorkin take the easy, cynical path.
此外，好莱坞所做的是循环论证：如果美籍华裔乃至其他少数族裔演员甚至不能获得在电影中露脸的机会，他们又如何能先去建立票房影响力呢？让情况变得更糟的是，兰迪斯、索尔金等好莱坞大腕没有利用自己在业内的崇高地位去推动变革，而是选择了一条轻松的犬儒主义道路。
Even a modest hit like the “Harold and Kumar” trilogy, starring John Cho and Kal Penn, was able to quadruple its production budget after box office and home media sales. Meanwhile, films with white stars fail at the box office all the time. Chris Hemsworth, who stars in this weekend’s “Huntsman” sequel, has had many more box office flops than successes, yet he is considered a bankable movie star.
即便是由约翰·赵(John Cho)和凯尔·潘(Kal Penn)主演的不算大获成功的《寻堡奇遇》(Harold and Kumar)三部曲，按照其取得的票房收入和家庭媒体销售收入来算，也是其制作预算的4倍。与此同时，由白人明星主演的电影在票房方面总是不尽人意。本周上映的《猎神》(Huntsman)续集是由克里斯·赫姆斯沃思(Chris Hemsworth)主演的，他演过的电影中，票房失利的远远多于票房成功的，但他却被视为票房保证。
Such facts reveal Hollywood’s dirty little secret. Economics has nothing to do with racist casting policies. Films in which the leads have been whitewashed have all failed mightily at the box office. Inserting white leads had no demonstrable effect on the numbers. So why is that still conventional thinking in Hollywood?
这些事实揭开了好莱坞那肮脏的小秘密。经济上的考量与带有种族主义色彩的选角政策毫无关系，“洗白”主角的电影票房全部惨败。安插白人扮演主角并未对票房数字产生显而易见的影响。那么为何这种考量在好莱坞还是常规思维？
For years, audiences have essentially boycotted these films, yet studios keep making them. Let’s hope Hollywood eventually listens.
多年来，观众实际上一直在抵制这类电影，但电影工作室还是不停地把它们制作出来。但愿好莱坞最终能倾听大家的心声。