SYDNEY, Australia — It was on a recent trip to Indonesia that, as a male bureaucrat sounded forth on a vast span of subjects without being asked to do so, I realized that the English language was in need of a new addition: the manologue. This otherwise perfectly charming man droned on and on, issuing a steady stream of words as I sat cramped in a tiny room with a group of fellow journalists and squinted at the labels on the soda cans hospitably placed on a table in front of us.
澳大利亚悉尼——最近到访印度尼西亚期间，当一位男性官僚在无人问及的情况下自顾自地就一大堆议题发表看法时，我意识到英语中需要增添一个新词汇：男性独白(manologue)。那个在其他方面相当吸引人的男子唠唠叨叨没完没了，而我只能坐在一个狭小的房间里，和一群记者朋友挤在一起，用眼角的余光瞥着被殷勤地摆在面前桌子上的那些汽水罐上的标签。
Finally, I deciphered the words “HERBAL — TO RELEASE TRAPPED WIND.” After several minutes during which I silently prayed none of my colleagues would reach for a drink, the official at last uttered the words, “Now, to answer your question.”
终于，我辨认出了标签上的字：“草药——可以释放体内气体”。过了几分钟——那几分钟里我一直默默祈祷我的任何一个同事都不要喝饮料——那个官员终于说道，“现在，来回答你的问题。”
So why did we get so many words between the question asked and the answer given? Why were they spoken at all? And how can you stem such extraneous, long-winded trains of thought? How can you politely say to a prolix associate, as a TV host might: “We’re almost out of time; can you keep this short?”
那么，在提问和回答之间，为什么要塞进那么多话语？那些长篇大论为什么要被发表出来？你如何才能阻断他那一连串不相干的、枝枝蔓蔓的念头？你如何才能像电视主持人那样，礼貌地对身边一个啰嗦的人说：“时间快到了；您能长话短说吗？”
Above all, why do so many men do this?
最重要的是，为什么喋喋不休的男人这么多？
It was not the first time one of us had asked a question about a minor issue during our study tour of the bustling, gridlocked capital Jakarta and been treated to a largely unrelated exposition on an entirely different idea. Our schedule was jammed with politicians, diplomats, ministers and editors from Indonesia and Australia, important men who were used to occupying space, time and attention, and would talk at numbing length. The perfect conditions, in other words, for an epidemic of manologues.
在熙熙攘攘、拥堵不堪的印尼首都雅加达考察期间，这已经不是第一次：我们中的某个人针对一件小事发问，然后就听到与问题基本无关的对另一个完全不同的概念的解释。我们的日程安排涉及大量来自印尼和澳大利亚的政治家、外交官、部长和主编等重要人士，他们习惯于占据空间、时间和注意力，会发表令人麻木的长篇大论。也就是说，我们的日程为男性独白的爆发提供了绝佳环境。
The manologue takes many forms, but is characterized by the proffering of words not asked for, of views not solicited and of arguments unsought. It is underwritten by the doubtful assumption that the audience will naturally be interested, and that this interest will not flag. And that when it comes to speeches or commentary, longer is better.
男性独白有多种形式，但其主要特点是：在没有被问及、请教或受到质疑的情况下，说一大堆话，发表一大堆看法，或展开辩论。它建立在这样一种可疑的假设之上：听众当然会感兴趣，而且这种兴趣不会减退。此外，举凡发表演讲或评论之时，都是越长越好。
The prevalence of the manologue is deeply rooted in the fact that men take, and are allocated, more time to talk in almost every professional setting. Women self-censor, edit, apologize for speaking. Men expound.
男性独白盛行的深层根源在于这样一个事实：几乎在任何专业场合，男性都会占用或者分到更多发言时间。女性会对自己的话语进行自我审查和编辑，会为直抒胸臆感到抱歉。男性则会细细道来。
Of course, some women can be equally long-winded, but it is far less common. The fact that this tendency is masculine has been well established in social science. The larger the group, the more likely men are to speak (unless it is in a social setting like a lunch break). One study, conducted by researchers at Brigham Young University and Princeton, found that when women are outnumbered, they speak for between a quarter and a third less time than the men.
当然了，一些女性也会发表冗长的言论，但相对而言，这很不常见。这是男性才具有的倾向，社会科学对此已有定论。一个场合的人数越多，男性发言的可能性就越大（除非是午休那种社交场合）。杨百翰大学(Brigham Young University)和普林斯顿大学(Princeton)开展的一项研究发现，当女性人数少于男性时，她们的发言时长比男性少四分之一到三分之一。
Men also talk more directly; women hedge. They use more phrases like “kind of,” “probably” or “maybe,” as well as more fillers like “um,” “ah” and “I mean.” They also turn sentences into questions, seeking affirmation: “Isn’t it?” Women are interrupted more, by both men and women.
男性谈话更直接；女性则留有余地。她们会更多使用“有点”、“可能”和“或许”之类的表达，也会加入更多“呃”、“啊”和“我是说”之类的助词。她们还会把肯定句变成寻求肯定的疑问句：“不是吗？”女性谈话被打断的情况也更多，有可能是被男性，也可能是被其他女性打断。
It is also clear that the more powerful men become, the more they speak. This would seem a natural correlation, but the same is not true for women. The reason for this, according to a Yale study, is because women worry about “negative consequences” — that is, a backlash — if they are more voluble. Troublingly, the study found that their fears were well founded, as both male and female listeners were quick to think these women were talking too much, too aggressively. In other words, men are rewarded for speaking, while women are punished.
还有一点也比较明显，即越是力量强大的男性，话说的就越多。这看似是一种比较正常的逻辑关联，但如果换做女性，情况就不一样。根据耶鲁大学(Yale)的一项研究，其中的原因是女性担心如果自己更为健谈，会带来“负面影响”——也就是引起对方反感。让人不安的是，这项研究还发现这种担忧竟然非常有道理，因为不管是男性还是女性听众，都会很容易觉得这类女性话太多，太咄咄逼人。换句话说，男性因谈话多而受到褒奖，女性则因此受到惩罚。
The problem is global and endemic across all media. Female characters speak less in Disney films today than they used to — even princesses get a minority of the speaking lines in films in which they’re the principal: In the 2013 animated movie “Frozen,” for example, male characters get 59 percent of the lines. A quick search for best monologues in film or movies reveals that they are almost all male. If you took Princess Leia out of “Star Wars,” the total speaking time for female characters is 63 seconds out of the original trilogy’s 386 minutes.
这个问题是全球性的，而且在各类媒介中普遍存在。相比于过去的迪斯尼动画片，如今此类影片中女性角色的谈话时间更少——即便是片中最重要的公主角色，台词也是占少数的：比如，在2013年的动画片《冰雪奇缘》(Frozen)中，男性角色的台词占据全片的59%。在网上快速搜索影视作品中的最佳独白，也可以发现它们几乎都出自男性角色。如果排除莱娅公主(Princess Leia)这一角色，在时长总计386分钟的最早的《星球大战》三部曲中，女性角色说话时间只有63秒。
One New Zealand study found that in formal contexts calling for expository speech, like seminars, TV discussions and classroom debates, men talk more often and for longer. Women use words to explore, men to explain.
新西兰的一项研究发现，在需要做解释性发言的正式场合，比如研讨会、电视辩论和课堂讨论，男性发言的几率更多，讲话时间更长。女性用话语展开探索，男性则用来做阐述。
So here is the conundrum: Including women is not the same as hearing women. As the Princeton and Brigham Young study noted, “having a seat at the table is very different than having a voice.” Women at the table will attest to finding themselves talked over, cut off, interrupted or forced to politely listen to reams of lengthy speeches.
所以难题就在于：将女性包含在内与倾听女性不是一码事。正如普林斯顿大学(Princeton)和杨伯翰大学(Brigham Young)的研究所指出的，“在桌边有一席之地和拥有发言权是两回事。”坐在桌边的女性会发现自己的声音被盖过去，被别人接过话头、被打断，或被迫礼貌地倾听无数冗长的发言。
The conditions required for women to speak more are, not surprisingly, that more women are present, and that women are leading. According to a Harvard study, female students spoke more when a female instructor was in the classroom.
不足为奇的是，要想让女性更多地发声，只需让更多女性在场。哈佛大学(Harvard)的一项研究显示，由一名女教师上课时，女学生们会更多地发言。
One leading Australian current affairs television show, “Q&A,” came up with an obvious yet smart response. After a review found that the program featured a greater number of male panelists, who were asked more questions and spoke longer, the producers promised to publish data documenting not just the show’s gender balance, but accounting for how much time guests spoke.
对于这类问题，澳大利亚的一个主要时事电视节目《问与答》(Q&A)做出了一种并无新意但又称得上高明的反应。在回顾过去的节目时，他们发现节目中更多是男性嘉宾在讲话，他们会被问更多问题，也会谈论更长时间。之后，节目制片人做出承诺，表示以后不仅会公布有关男女嘉宾比例的数据，还会公布他们说话的时长。
“We won’t get the voice share perfect straight away,” wrote the show’s producer, Amanda Collinge, “but we are actively trying to improve, and being open about it.”
“我们不会马上实现男女发言比例平衡，”该节目制片人阿曼达·科林奇(Amanda Collinge)写道。“但我们在积极努力地改进，在坦诚面对这个问题。”
But if you’re a man who wants to counter your manologue tendency, try this: When you hear yourself saying, “Now, to answer your question,” ask yourself whether there was a good reason you didn’t start at exactly that point. Otherwise, these manologues may never, ever end.
不过，如果你是一名男性，想要改掉自己长篇大论的习惯，可以试试这个：当你听到自己说，“现在，要回答你这个问题”，就问问自己，是不是很好的理由不在那个时候直接回答问题。若非如此，这类男性独白可能永远没有完结的时候。