In the face of Republican opposition to a Supreme Court nomination, President Obama needed a candidate who had support from Republicans in the past but who would still move the court in a progressive direction.
面对共和党对最高法院大法官提名的反对，美国总统奥巴马需要一位过去受共和党支持，但仍能将法院推向更加自由和进步方向的人选。
Merrick B. Garland, who was on President Obama’s shortlist for previous Supreme Court nominations, was confirmed 76 to 23 as a judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 1997.
梅里克·B·加兰德(Merrick B. Garland)曾在奥巴马的上一任最高法院大法官的提名候选名单上。1997年，他以76票赞成、23票反对的表决结果，成为美国哥伦比亚特区联邦上诉法院的一名法官。
He Could Shift the Court to Be More Liberal
他将使最高法院更偏向自由派
If Judge Garland is confirmed, he could tip the ideological balance to create the most liberal Supreme Court in 50 years. Measures of ideology by four political scientists show where the justices stand in relation to one another. Judge Garland’s score is based on the score of his appointing president, Bill Clinton. This methodology is considered to be a “reasonably good predictor of voting on the Supreme Court,” says Prof. Lee Epstein of Washington University.
如果加兰德法官通过任命，他将会让法院的意识形态立场转向，使之成为50年来最偏向自由派的最高法院。四位政治学家对意识形态的衡量表明了大法官立场之间的关系。加兰德法官的得分是基于提名他的时任总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)。华盛顿大学的李·爱泼斯坦(Lee Epstein)教授表示，这种方法被称为“对最高法院选票的合理预测”。
He Could Bring Some New Perspective
他会带来一些新视角
Judge Garland, who is from Illinois, could bring an additional Midwestern perspective to a court that comes mostly from New York and California. On the other hand, his law degree is from Harvard and he comes from the District of Columbia Circuit, like many of the current justices.
来自伊利诺伊州的加兰德法官会给法院带来更多美国中西部的观点和视角，而最高法院法官目前大多数人都是来自纽约和加州。另一方面，他的法学学位来自哈佛大学，并在哥伦比亚特区就职，这些背景都和许多现任大法官相似。
He Is Undeniably Qualified
他的资历无可非议
Judge Garland has spent 19 years on an appeals court, previously worked as a law clerk and has experience on the executive branch. According to Prof. Epstein, “these credentials aren't required, nor would most former justices have met them, but they reflect the new normal.”
加兰德法官在上诉法院工作了19年，之前也曾任大法官助理，并有过行政经验。爱泼斯坦教授说，“这些资历都不是必须的，之前的多数大法官也没有满足过这些条件，但是这些都反映了目前新的标准。”
He Is Prepared to Face a Difficult Confirmation
他已经做好了迎接一个艰难任命过程的准备
That is, if the Republicans concede to a vote. Judge Garland received substantial support from Republicans when he was confirmed to the appeals court and his qualifications could make it more difficult for them to justify blocking him.
假设共和党人会做出让步进行投票的话。在就任上诉法院法官时，加兰德曾深受共和党人支持。他的资历会让共和党人更难以合理的理由阻止其提名。