AN EIGHT-BEDROOM VILLA WITH SEA AND OCEAN VIEWS IN CAMPS BAY, CAPE TOWN
待售房产：开普敦坎普斯湾(Camps Bay)的一栋带有8间卧室的海景度假别墅
$3.8 MILLION
价格：380万美元（约合人民币2317万元）
Nestled on the slopes of Table Mountain, with sunset views over the Atlantic Ocean and a coastal panorama of Lion’s Head and the Twelve Apostles mountains, this creamy stucco eight-bedroom contemporary in the Camps Bay section of Cape Town has a whimsical wave to its facade.
位于桌山(Table Mountain)的斜坡上，眺望着大西洋海面的落日美景和狮子头山(Lion's Head)以及十二门徒山(Twelve Apostles)的海岸线全景，开普敦坎普斯湾的这栋灰泥粉饰(stucco)并带有8间卧室的奶白色当代别墅，有波浪式的奇特曲线立面。
Entry at street level is through a glass and stainless steel door into a vestibule beside a two-car garage, which adjoins two single-car garages. A circular travertine tile staircase with a chrome banister leads to a grassy terrace on the first level.
通过临街的一扇玻璃与不锈钢大门，可以进入双车车库旁的一间门厅，这间车库还与另外两间单车车库毗邻。有一段铬合金扶手的洞石旋转楼梯通往一楼的草坪。
The living and dining spaces to either side of a center hall have bowed walls of glass that fold open seamlessly to a curvy veranda with wraparound views, creating an indoor/outdoor living environment. Another glass partition opens to a covered terrace with a tree growing through it. Beyond the veranda is an infinity-edge spillover swimming pool and, a few steps down, a grass lawn.
中央大厅两边的起居室和饭厅装有一排凸面的落地玻璃门，这扇玻璃门可以无缝折叠，门外是一条四面环绕的曲形走廊，创造出室内外结合的居住环境。另一处装有落地玻璃门的房间，通往外面一处有遮挡的平台，房间里还有一棵树穿过。走廊外面是一个无边溢出式游泳池(infinity-edge spillover swimming pool,指泳池的边缘被设计成在水平面之下的几厘米处，流出的水会流到下面的一个集水池，然后再由水泵抽回到上面的池子里——译注)，再往下走几级台阶，就是一片草地。
Behind the dining room, the kitchen has light wood cabinetry, linear hardware, granite countertops, stainless-steel appliances, a center-island cooktop and built-in wine racks. A scullery and laundry, staff quarters with two bedrooms and a bath, and a guest suite complete the back side of the first level.
在饭厅后面的厨房里，有轻木(light wood)做的橱柜，直线型的配件，花岗岩的台面，不锈钢的厨具，一面安在中央岛台上的炉灶，以及几个靠壁式的酒架。另外，一楼的后侧还有一间盥洗室，一间带有2个卧室和1个浴室的佣人房，以及一间客用套间。
A grand central staircase, in travertine matching the floors and baths throughout, opens to a TV lounge and a rear-facing wood deck. To the front, a master-size bedroom opens to a wraparound balcony. An oval tub is in the bedroom; a three-quarter wall to the rear masks a double vanity, a toilet and closets. Two of the three smaller bedrooms on this level open to the ocean-view balcony.
一段豪华的中央楼梯，铺着与整栋楼的地面和浴室配套的洞石瓷砖，通往一间装了电视的客厅，以及面向后方的一处木板平台。一间面积为主卧大小的位于前方的卧室，通往一个全景阳台。这间卧室里有一个椭圆形的浴缸；一面3/4高度的墙壁掩饰了后面的一个双位梳妆台，一间洗手间和几个衣橱。这一层的三间较小的卧室当中，有两间带有海景阳台。
The third-level penthouse suite has glass walls opening to a private wraparound wood deck with a hot tub in one corner. In addition to the spa bath and a dressing room, the penthouse has a kitchenette.
第三层的顶楼豪华套间也有一排落地玻璃门，通往外面一个四面环绕的私人木平台，房间一个角落里有个热水浴缸。除了这间spa浴室和一间更衣室，该豪华套间内还有一个小厨房。
Camps Bay is an affluent, cosmopolitan suburb with powder-white sandy beaches fringed by palm trees. Many of the hillside villas are grand and architecturally striking, with apartments closer to the beach. Along the beachfront strip are stylish restaurants, sidewalk cafes and upscale boutiques. In summer, Camps Bay is a popular seaside holiday destination for foreign tourists and South Africans. Like many of the mansions in the area, this house is also available as a vacation rental. It is being sold furnished.
坎普斯湾是一个聚集了各国人的富庶乡村，这里有面粉一样白的沙滩，海边还种着很多棕榈树。山坡上的许多度假别墅都很豪华气派，还带有几间靠近沙滩的寓所。沿滨海地带建有各种漂亮的餐厅、路边咖啡馆和高级女装精品店。在夏季，坎普斯湾是一个很受外国人和南非人欢迎的海边度假胜地。正如该地区的许多豪宅一样，这栋房屋也可以作为度假别墅出租。目前此屋正在出售中，家私电器一应齐全。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Pricewise, Cape Town real estate is the most expensive in South Africa, with a “definite premium for homes with ocean views,” said Amanda Croker of Engel & Völkers, the listing agent.
就物价而论，开普敦的房产在南非价格最高，而“那些带有海景的房屋肯定会高出正常价格，”Engel & Völkersd地产公司的房源中介阿曼达·克罗克(Amanda Croker)说道。
Laurie Wener, a managing director for Pam Golding Properties, said the market in the affluent beachfront suburbs like Camps Bay and nearby Clifton “has improved increasingly over the past 12 months.” Prices range from about $350,000, for a two-bedroom apartment, to about $450,000 to $800,000 for a single-family home, although these sometimes exceed $3 million. “The Atlantic Seaboard is a recession resistant, established and sophisticated region,” she said, with a “sound commercial infrastructure. It is an international destination.”
Pam Golding Properties地产公司的总经理劳里·韦纳(Laurie Wener)说，诸如坎普斯湾和附近克利夫顿(Clifton)这样富庶的海滨乡村地区的房地产市场，“过去12个月以来，行情一直在上涨”。市场价格从大约35万美元（约合人民币213.4万元）的双卧室公寓，到大约45万至80万美元（约合人民币274.4万至487.8万元）的独栋房屋不等，尽管行情有时候会超过300万美元（约合人民币1829.3万元）。“这里的大西洋沿海地带是一片成熟、健全、抗经济衰退的地区，”她说，而且有“良好的商业基础设施。这里是全球度假胜地。”
Mike Greeff, the chief executive of Greeff Properties, an affiliate of Christie’s International Real Estate, agreed that the market “has shown a particularly healthy growth this year,” but said homes with water views on the Indian Ocean side of the cape peninsula “offer far more value for money than the Atlantic Seaboard properties.”
佳士得国际地产公司(Christie's International Real Estate)的下属企业格雷夫地产公司(Greeff Proprties)执行总裁麦克·格雷夫(Mike Greeff)也认同这样的看法，他说这里的房地产市场“今年已经出现了一股健康的增长势头，”但他又说，开普半岛靠印度洋一侧的海景房“比大西洋海岸的房产更加物超所值。”
WHO BUYS IN CAPE TOWN
谁在开普敦买房
With its proximity to the sea and mountains, and its cosmopolitan atmosphere, Camps Bay is a popular choice for wealthy South Africans as well as international buyers from Africa, Europe and occasionally the United States, Ms. Wener said. Because of direct flights and no time change, an increasing number of European buyers are also seeking homes elsewhere on the Atlantic Seaboard, Constantia in the Southern Suburbs and the western cape’s Winelands, Ms. Croker said.
由于这里依山傍水的环境和国际化的氛围，坎普斯湾不但是南非富人的热选之地，也是来自非洲、欧洲、间或还有美国买家们的热选之地，韦纳说道。因为可以直飞，而且没有时差，越来越多的欧洲买家也在寻找大西洋海岸其他地方的房产，比如南部郊区地带(Southern Suburbs)的康斯坦夏村，和西开普省(western cape)的葡萄酒乡(Winelands)，克罗克说道。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
There are no laws precluding foreigners from owning property in South Africa, Mr. Greeff said.
没有法律限制国外买家在南非持有房产，格雷夫说。
But foreigners can borrow only 50 percent of the purchase price if they use a South African bank, Ms. Croker said. The deal must be handled by a “conveyancer,” a lawyer specializing in property transfers.
但如果外国买家通过南非银行贷款，他们只能借到房屋售价50%的金额，克罗克说。地产交易必须由一名专业的产权转让律师经手。
WEB SITES
网址
Cape Town tourism site: capetown.travel
开普敦旅游网：capetown.travel
Cape Town official site: capetown.gov.za
开普敦官网：capetown.gov.za
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
语言及货币
English, Afrikaans and Xhosa, among others; South African rand (1 rand = $0.10)
英语，南非荷兰语和科萨语等；南非兰特（1兰特=0.1美元[约合人民币0.61元]）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
Property taxes run about 6,000 rand, or $600, monthly.
房产税每个月大约为6000兰特，或600美元（约合人民币3660.8元）。
Transfer costs are approximately 8 percent of the purchase price. This includes the conveyance lawyer’s fees and the transfer duty.
转让费约为售价的8%，其中包括产权转让的律师费和过户税。
CONTACT
联系方式
Amanda Croker, Engel & Völkers Camps Bay, 011-27-21-438-8722; engelvoelkers.com
坎普斯湾Engel & Völkersd地产公司，阿曼达·克罗克(Amanda Croker)，011-27-21-438-8722；engelvoelkers.com