I understand why Donald Trump is so unpopular. He earned it the old-fashioned way, by being obnoxious, insulting and offensive. But why is Hillary Clinton so unpopular?
我能理解为什么唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)如此不受欢迎。因为他令人不快，喜欢侮辱人，且有攻击性，这种因果关系比较老套。但希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)为何也如此不得人心？
She is, at the moment, just as unpopular as Trump. In the last three major national polls she had unfavorability ratings in the same ballpark as Trump’s. In the Washington Post/ABC News poll, they are both at 57 percent disapproval.
目前，她基本上和特朗普一样不受待见。在最近三次大的全国性民意调查中，她的反对率和特朗普处于同一区间。《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)和ABC新闻频道(ABC News)联合进行的民意调查显示，二人的反对率都达到57%。
In the New York Times/CBS News poll, 60 percent of respondents said Clinton does not share their values. Sixty-four percent said she is not honest or trustworthy. Clinton has plummeted so completely down to Trump’s level that she is now statistically tied with him in some of the presidential horse race polls.
在《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)进行的民意调查中，60%的受访者表示自己不赞同克林顿的价值观。64%的人认为她不够诚实或不可靠。克林顿这么大幅度地跌落至特朗普的层面，以致她在一些有关总统大选竞逐的民意调查中的数据已经与特朗普相差无几。
There are two paradoxes to her unpopularity. First, she was popular not long ago. As secretary of state she had a 66 percent approval rating. Even as recently as March 2015 her approval rating was at 50 and her disapproval rating was at 39.
她的不受欢迎存在两个矛盾之处。首先，不久前她还是受欢迎的。在担任国务卿期间，她的支持率高达66%。即便是更近一些的2015年3月，支持率也有50%，反对率为39%。
It’s only since she launched a multimillion-dollar campaign to impress the American people that she has made herself so strongly disliked.
恰恰是在开启这场投入大笔资金的选战，试图引起美国人的注目之后，她才变得如此强烈地被人反感。
The second paradox is that, agree with her or not, she’s dedicated herself to public service. From advocate for children to senator, she has pursued her vocation tirelessly. It’s not the “what” that explains her unpopularity, it’s the “how” — the manner in which she has done it.
第二个矛盾点在于，不管你是否认同克林顿，她的确全身心投入了公共服务之中。不管是作为儿童权益的倡导者，还是参议员，她都不知疲倦地努力达成自己的使命。能解释她为何不讨人喜欢的不是她做了“什么”，而是“如何”——她做事的方式。
But what exactly do so many have against her?
但这么多人到底不喜欢她什么呢？
I would begin my explanation with this question: Can you tell me what Hillary Clinton does for fun? We know what Obama does for fun — golf, basketball, etc. We know, unfortunately, what Trump does for fun.
要讲清楚这点，我得先问这么一个问题：你能告诉我希拉里·克林顿有些什么娱乐和消遣吗？我们知道奥巴马喜欢什么——高尔夫、篮球等。不幸的是，我们也知道特朗普喜欢什么消遣。
But when people talk about Clinton, they tend to talk of her exclusively in professional terms. For example, on Nov. 16, 2015, Peter D. Hart conducted a focus group on Clinton. Nearly every assessment had to do with on-the-job performance. She was “multitask-oriented” or “organized” or “deceptive.”
然而，当人们谈起克林顿，似乎只有职业层面的东西。比如，2015年11月16日，彼得·D·哈特(Peter D. Hart)针对克林顿做了一项焦点小组调查。里面几乎所有的评价都和她的职业表现有关。她是“多任务导向的”、“做事有条理”或“有欺骗性”。
Clinton’s career appears, from the outside, to be all consuming. Her husband is her co-politician. Her daughter works at the Clinton Foundation. Her friendships appear to have been formed at networking gatherings reserved for the extremely successful.
在外界看来，克林顿的职业生涯似乎就是她的全部。她的丈夫是自己政治上的盟友，女儿在克林顿基金会工作。身边的朋友似乎也是在只有极其成功的人士才能参与的社交聚会上结识的。
People who work closely with her adore her and say she is warm and caring. But it’s hard from the outside to think of any non-career or pre-career aspect to her life. Except for a few grandma references, she presents herself as a résumé and policy brief.
与她有密切合作的人很敬爱她，说她亲切有爱。但外人很难想象她非职业或职业之外的那一面。除了少数几次提及外婆这一身份时，她对外展示的形象基本犹如一份简历和一份政策简报。
For example, her campaign recently released a biographical video called “Fighter.” It’s filled with charming and quirky old photos of her fighting for various causes. But then when the video cuts to a current interview with Clinton herself, the lighting is perfect, the setting is perfect, her costume is perfect. She looks less like a human being and more like an avatar from some corporate brand.
比如，她的竞选团队最近发布了一段名为《斗士》的传记视频。里面满是显示她为各种事业奋斗的老照片，有些古怪，却不失魅力。只是，当画面切换至对现在的克林顿的采访时，灯光很完美，场景很完美，着装也完美无瑕。这时的她不太像是有血有肉的人，更像是某个企业品牌的化身。
Clinton’s unpopularity is akin to the unpopularity of a workaholic. Workaholism is a form of emotional self-estrangement. Workaholics are so consumed by their professional activities that their feelings don’t inform their most fundamental decisions. The professional role comes to dominate the personality and encroaches on the normal intimacies of the soul. As Martyn Lloyd-Jones once put it, whole cemeteries could be filled with the sad tombstone: “Born a man, died a doctor.”
克林顿的不受欢迎类似于人们对工作狂的不待见。迷恋工作是一种形式的自我情感剥离。工作狂的生活几乎全部被工作上的事务填满，以致他们在做一些最为根本的决策时也不带什么感情色彩。职业角色主导了性格，也侵蚀了一个人的灵魂通常该有的暖色。就像钟马田(Martyn Lloyd-Jones)曾经说的，整块墓地都可以摆上这么令人悲伤的墓碑：“出生的时候是一个人，死去的时候是一名医生。”
At least in her public persona, Clinton gives off an exclusively professional vibe: industrious, calculated, goal-oriented, distrustful. It’s hard from the outside to have a sense of her as a person; she is a role.
克林顿给人一种完全职业化的感觉，至少她的公众形象如此：勤勉、深思熟虑、目标导向、不轻信。外人很难感觉到她是一个活生生的人，而非一个角色。
This formal, career-oriented persona puts her in direct contrast with the mores of the social media age, which is intimate, personalist, revealing, trusting and vulnerable. It puts her in conflict with most people’s lived experience. Most Americans feel more vivid and alive outside the work experience than within. So of course to many she seems Machiavellian, crafty, power-oriented, untrustworthy.
这种庄重的职业导向的形象让她与社交媒体时代的惯常人格形成鲜明的对比，后者是亲密、个人化、袒露内在、让人信赖而又脆弱的。这让她与大多数人的生活经验相悖。相比于在职场内，大多数人美国人在职场之外会感觉更加自在、有活力。所以对许多人来说，克林顿自然显得有些阴险、狡猾、唯权是图和不可信赖。
There’s a larger lesson here, especially for people who have found a career and vocation that feels fulfilling. Even a socially good vocation can swallow you up and make you lose a sense of your own voice. Maybe it’s doubly important that people with fulfilling vocations develop, and be seen to develop, sanctuaries outside them: in play, solitude, family, faith, hobbies and leisure.
这里还有一个更大的教训，尤其是对已经找到让你感觉充实的职业的人而言。即使是一个利于社交的职业，也有可能吞噬你的生活，令你失去对自己声音的感觉。拥有令人满意职业的人或许应该加倍重视构建，以及被外界看到你在构建职业之外的庇护所：游戏、独处、家庭、信仰、爱好和休闲。
Abraham Joshua Heschel wrote that the Sabbath is “a palace in time which we build.” It’s not a day of rest before work; you work in order to experience this day of elevation. Josef Pieper wrote that leisure is not an activity, it’s an attitude of mind. It’s stepping outside strenuous effort and creating enough stillness so that it becomes possible to contemplate and enjoy things as they are.
亚伯拉罕·约书亚·赫舍尔(Abraham Joshua Heschel)曾经写道，安息日是“我们在时间里建造的一座宫殿”。它不是你在开始工作之前进行的一天的放松；而应该说，你努力工作就是为了享受这一天的提升。约瑟夫·皮珀(Josef Pieper)写过，休闲不是一种活动，它是一种心态。它是摆脱繁重的事务，创造足够的宁静，因此有可能思索和享受事物的本来的样子。
Even successful lives need these sanctuaries — in order to be a real person instead of just a productive one. It appears that we don’t really trust candidates who do not show us theirs.
即便是成功的人生也需要这样的庇护所——这样才能成为真正意义上的人，而非只是一个有成就的人。看起来，我们似乎并不真的信任那些不向我们展示真实自我的候选人。