Every McDonald’s executive I’ve met who happens to be a parent says something like this: “I don’t let my kids eat at McDonald’s all the time. It’s a treat; we know that.” Yet these same executives, in literature and in public, say that they’re “championing children’s well-being.”
我见过的每个身为父母的麦当劳(McDonald)管理者都会说些这样的话：“我不会总让我的孩子在麦当劳吃东西。这是偶尔为之的奖励；我们对此很清楚。”然而，这些管理者在书面上和公共场合都表示，他们“捍卫儿童的福祉”。
Big Mac is confused. It remains among the world’s most envied brands, yet its unique position means it must — or at least should — lead within the industry. But despite the company’s claims, its tardiness in marketing real, healthful food solidifies Big Mac’s public image as a pusher and profiteer of junk food, incapable of doing (or unwilling to do) the right thing. Envied by the competition, beloved by at least some customers, McDonald’s is reviled by those who see it as setting undesirable eating patterns in children, patterns that remain for life.
巨无霸脑子迷糊了。麦当劳仍然是世界上最值得艳羡的品牌之一，然而它的特殊地位意味着它必须——或者至少应该——在行业中起领头作用。但是不管麦当劳的说法如何，它在营销真正的、健康的食物方面的迟缓，进一步巩固了它作为垃圾食物贩卖者和牟利者的形象，无法（或者根本不愿意）去做正确的事。麦当劳让竞争者嫉妒，让至少一部分顾客深为喜爱，但它同时也饱受谩骂，有人认为它给儿童造成了不良的饮食习惯，而这习惯是会保留终生的。
Despite the fact that the company removed images of soda from national advertising for its Happy Meals, it comprises 57 percent of the beverages sold to kids. And, despite a well-publicized announcement a couple of weeks ago that promised to market only water, milk and juice in its Happy Meal advertising, there’s little sign of the sugar-peddling diminishing. It’s true that 21 percent of all Happy Meals are now sold with milk, but the vast majority of that is chocolate milk, which, according to the company’s fascinating nutrition charts (you should look), contains about 10 grams of added sugar per serving, about the same as you’d get in 20 M&Ms. This is progress?
虽然麦当劳在其全国的开心乐园餐(Happy Meals)广告中移除了碳酸饮料，但在它出售给儿童的饮料中，碳酸类仍占57%。虽然公司几周前在一份宣传力度颇大的声明中承诺在其开心乐园餐的广告中只推销水、牛奶和果汁，但仍无迹象表明他们对含糖饮料的推销力度在减少。现在的确有21%的开心乐园餐是搭配牛奶出售的，但其中大多数都是巧克力牛奶。根据麦当劳的一份饶有趣味的营养表（你应该看看），每份这种牛奶中添加了大约10克糖，几乎相当于吃下20颗M&M巧克力豆。这是进步吗？
Yet McDonald’s is as good a spinmaster as any. (They’re like Speaker Boehner: in the history books already, but still with a chance to influence the reason.) Thus, on Sept. 26, the company and some surprising allies descended on New York with yet another announcement about its “healthier” food.
然而麦当劳不逊色于任何巧令辞色的宣传者。（他们就像博纳[Boehner]议长一样：已经过气了，但还是有可能影响当下。）所以，9月26日，公司和一些令人意外的盟友突然来到纽约，带来了另一份关于其“更健康”食物的声明。
The news was developed in conjunction with the Alliance for a Healthier Generation (what were they thinking?), a joint venture of the Clinton Global Initiative and the American Heart Association. And although it would have been fun to see the former president preach his part-time veganism to his McDonald’s partners — Hey guys! How about a Meatless Monday? — instead we found Big Bill less critical of McDonald’s than he was of welfare. We learned mostly that the company will “increase customers’ access to fruit and vegetables and help families and children to make informed choices in keeping with balanced lifestyles.” You can imagine.
这条消息是与“克林顿全球倡议”(Clinton Global Initiative) 和美国心脏协会(American Heart Association)联合创立的下一代健康联盟(Alliance for a Healthier Generation)（他们的脑子是怎么想的？）共同策划的。虽然看前总统向他的麦当劳合伙人推销自己的半素主义本应是一件趣事——伙计们！周一吃素如何？——但是我们发现，“大比尔”(Big Bill)对麦当劳的态度并不像对待福利项目那样苛刻。我们听到的说法主要是，公司将“增加顾客选择水果和蔬菜的机会，帮家庭和儿童在保持平衡生活方式上做出明智选择。”你可以想象一下。
First McDonald’s promised that it would no longer “promote and market” soda in Happy Meals; only time will tell if that’s the precise truth [1] . This means, according to a spokeswoman, that within five years, “sodas will no longer be listed on the Happy Meal menu boards in the specified 20 major markets that represent 85% of our global sales.”
麦当劳首先承诺不会在开心乐园餐中“推广或推销”碳酸饮料；只有时间能说明这种情况是否完全属实。根据一名女发言人的说法，这就是说五年内，“在占我们全球销售额85%的20个指定主要市场中，碳酸饮料将不再被列在开心乐园餐的菜单上。”
It doesn’t mean you’ll be asked only whether your kid prefers milk, water or juice; it just means there won’t be pictures of soda with Happy Meals on the menu boards. It’s not like milk will become the default. No: McDonald’s will actively discourage the drinking of soda (likely its most profitable item and among the least healthy items in the American diet) only when it’s forced to.
这并不是说服务员只会问你，你的孩子想喝牛奶、水还是果汁；这只意味着开心乐园餐的菜单上不再会出现碳酸饮料的图片。这并不是说牛奶就成为了套餐里的默认饮料。不：麦当劳不会主动劝说人们不喝碳酸饮料，除非被逼着这么做（它可能是麦当劳利润最高的东西，而且也是美国饮食结构中最不健康的食物之一）。
The company also pledges to offer fruit, a vegetable or a salad with so-called Value Meals for those customers who would prefer one of those instead of fries. You could say this would expand choice, and you’d be right; it’s not a complete failure. But as they say, no one goes into McDonald’s looking for salad.
公司还承诺在超值套餐(Value Meals)中，为不想要薯条的顾客提供水果、一份蔬菜或一份沙拉。你或许会说，这样做将增加顾客的选择，你就说对了；这种做法并非一无是处。但正如人们所说，没人会特意去麦当劳吃沙拉。
McDonald’s and its brethren want some love; they want people like Marion Nestle, Michele Simon and me to stop kvetching and instead acknowledge that they’re making great strides in promoting health rather than “illth” [2]… but only the most gullible buy that.
麦当劳和它的同类希望得到一些友爱；他们希望像马里昂·内斯特(Marion Nestle)、米歇尔·西蒙(Michele Simon)和我这样的人不要再找岔子，承认他们在推广福祉而不是“不幸”方面取得了很大进步……只有最轻信的人才会买账。
For example. The company boasts of having served 440 million cups [3] of fruits and vegetables to its customers between mid-2012 and mid-2013. But let’s do some math: McDonald’s serves 28,000,000 people a day, which translates to around 10 billion customers a year. So those 440 million cups? That’s about .04 cups more per customer. Per year. On a daily basis, then, the average customer is getting about .0001 more cups of fruits and vegetables than in 2011. Actually, repeat customers get more. In fact, if you went to McDonald’s a hundred times a year — twice a week — you’d get almost four cups more fruit and vegetables than you did in the old days.
例如，麦当劳宣称，从2012年中至2013年中它共向客人出售了4.4亿杯水果和蔬菜。但是，让我们做些计算吧：麦当劳每天接待客人2800万，按照一年计算就是100亿。所以4.4亿杯？那就相当于每位客人多消费了0.04杯水果、蔬菜。这还是每年，那么按每日计算，每位客人平均比2011年多吃了0.0001杯水果、蔬菜。实际上，回头客消费的会更多。其实，如果你每年光顾麦当劳100次（相当于每周两次），那么你会比过去多吃将近四杯的水果和蔬菜。
I used to joke that many Americans counted the lettuce on a hamburger as a serving of vegetables. But it’s not a leaf of lettuce: it’s a shred. It would appear that McDonald’s idea of “bold nutrition moves” (a phrase used by McDonald’s senior vice president Greg Watson) is a shred of lettuce.
我过去常常开玩笑地说，美国人将汉堡里的生菜也算做一份蔬菜。但那其实都不是一片完整的生菜叶子，只是一小条。那么看来，麦当劳所谓的“为了丰富营养的大胆之举”（这是麦当劳资深副总裁格雷格·沃森[Greg Watson]说的话）就是一小条生菜叶。
The timetable for even these modest changes — which, for all we know, will preclude any meaningful changes during the phase-in period — is laughable: it will take place in 30 to 50 percent of 20 major markets within three years and the remainder of those markets by 2020. So in seven years most McDonald’s customers a) won’t have soda forced upon them and b) will, upon request, be able to not have fries with that.
即便是这些微不足道的举措——而且我们都知道，到了推出阶段不会出现任何真正有意义的改变——其实施的时间表都是可笑的：在三年内，在20个主要市场中的30%到50%启动，余下的将会在2020年之前完成。那么在七年内，对多数麦当劳顾客来说，首先不会被强售碳酸饮料，其次，点开心乐园餐时可以要求不要薯条。
McDonald’s thinks its customers are afraid of change, and it may be right; but it’s in a bind. The company is already failing with the coveted millennials market and may even be losing steam when it comes to kids. A bold marketing move would see real food and real health as a huge opportunity in fast food, and the dozens of successful new companies that do so are starting to eat McDonald’s lunch.
麦当劳认为，是顾客害怕改变，它可能是对的，但它处在两难的境地。在争取它所垂涎的千禧世代市场方面，麦当劳已然失败，甚至可能会失去对儿童市场的吸引力。一个有力的市场举措应该是将人们对真正健康食品的追求视为快餐行业的巨大商机，几十家真正做到这一点的成功的新公司已经开始蚕食麦当劳的午餐市场。
But although Mr. Watson told me that at any given time there are “around 50” new products being tested in the Mickey D pipeline, the company is afraid that its customers “just aren’t ready” for something like a veggie burger. They say things like, “You told us you’re trying harder to be more nutrition-minded for yourself and for your family. We listened.” But what they do is introduce McWraps — many of which have unfavorable nutrition profiles even when compared to burgers — and make it marginally easier for the best-educated, most assertive of their customers to demand marginally better choices.
然而，虽然沃森告诉我，麦当劳的生产线上随时都有“约50种”新产品在进行测试，但麦当劳仍担心它的顾客们“还没有准备好”接受像素食汉堡这样的东西。他们会这么说，“你告诉我们，你在努力为了自己、为了家人更加注重营养。这些我们听到了。”但是他们的做法是推出了麦饭卷，这其中一些的营养成分甚至还不如汉堡，这样一来，那些受教育程度最高的、最有自信的顾客就自然可以更容易地要求更好的选择。
If McDonald’s wanted to be on the right side of history, it would announce something like this: “Starting tomorrow, we’re not offering soda with Happy Meals except by specific request. And starting Jan. 1, at every McDonald’s, we’ll be offering a small burger with a big salad for the price of a burger and fries to anyone who asks for it; we’re also adding a chopped salad McWrap. We challenge our competitors to follow us in making fast food as healthful as it is affordable, and we dare our critics to say we’re not changing.”
如果麦当劳想要做出正确的选择，它应该宣布这样的决定，比如：“从明天起，我们的开心乐园餐不会再供应碳酸饮料，除非顾客提出要求。自1月1日起，在任何麦当劳门店，只要顾客提出，我们会供应小汉堡和大色拉组合，价钱和汉堡、薯条餐一样；我们还会增加一个碎色拉麦饭卷。我们向竞争对手发出挑战，他们能否像我们那样，把快餐做得如此健康、价廉，看批评者还敢不敢说我们不会改变。”
That ain’t gonna happen. But if it did, I’d be the first in line to applaud.
但这不会出现。如果他们真的那么做了，我会是第一个鼓掌叫好的。
1. It’s a little Inside Baseball, but this is causing a big kerfuffle. What did they say and what did they mean? I think what they mean is, “We’re going to promote soda less aggressively.” O.K.
1. 它有点儿隐晦，却引来了许多关注。他们到底是怎么说的，又是什么意思？我想他们的意思是，“我们会相对没那么起劲地推广碳酸饮料的力度。”好吧。
2. John Ruskin’s word, connoting the opposite of well-being.
2. 约翰·罗斯金(John Ruskin)的话，给人感觉是福祉的反面。
3. Compare this to something like a billion pounds of beef.
3. 相比之下卖出的牛肉是10亿磅。