In early 2016, I began paying attention to reports about the incredible number of unarmed black people being killed by the police. The posts on social media deeply disturbed me, but one in particular brought me to tears: the killing of Alton Sterling in my hometown Baton Rouge, La. This could have happened to any of my family members who still live in the area. I felt furious, hurt and hopeless. I wanted to do something, but didn’t know what or how to do it. All I knew for sure is that I wanted it to be as respectful as possible.
2016年初，我开始关注关于大量手无寸铁的黑人被警察杀害的报道。社交媒体上的帖子令我非常不安，尤其有一则更是让我流下了眼泪，也就是我的故乡路易斯安那州巴吞鲁日发生的奥尔顿·斯特灵(Alton Sterling)被害案。我依然有家人住在那一带，这样的事有可能发生在他们任何一个人身上。我感到愤怒、伤心、绝望。我想做些什么，但不知道该做什么，或者说该怎么做。我只是确定地知道，我希望自己的做法尽可能地存有敬意。
A few weeks later, during preseason, my teammate Colin Kaepernick chose to sit on the bench during the national anthem to protest police brutality. To be honest, I didn’t notice at the time, and neither did the news media. It wasn’t until after our third preseason game on Aug. 26, 2016, that his protest gained national attention, and the backlash against him began.
几周后，在季前赛中，我的队友柯林·卡佩尼克(Colin Kaepernick)决定在奏国歌时坐在长凳上，抗议警察的暴行。坦白地说，当时我没有注意到，新闻媒体也没有注意到。直到2016年8月26日的第三场季前赛时，他的抗议才引起全国关注，开始出现对他的强烈批评。
That’s when my faith moved me to take action. I looked to James 2:17, which states, “Faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead.” I knew I needed to stand up for what is right.
这时，我的信仰驱使我采取行动。我想到了《雅各书》第二章第17节：“如果没有行为，这信仰就是死的。”我知道我需要为正确的事情挺身而出。
I approached Colin the Saturday before our next game to discuss how I could get involved with the cause but also how we could make a more powerful and positive impact on the social justice movement. We spoke at length about many of the issues that face our community, including systemic oppression against people of color, police brutality and the criminal justice system. We also discussed how we could use our platform, provided to us by being professional athletes in the N.F.L., to speak for those who are voiceless.
星期六，在再次比赛前，我去找柯林，讨论我如何加入这项事业，以及我们怎么做才能对这项社会正义运动产生更强大而正面的影响。我们详谈了我们这个群体面临的许多问题，包括对有色人种的体制压迫；警察的残暴；以及刑事司法制度。我们还讨论了如何利用我们身为国家橄榄球联盟的职业运动员所拥有的平台，为那些没有话语权的人发声。
After hours of careful consideration, and even a visit from Nate Boyer, a retired Green Beret and former N.F.L. player, we came to the conclusion that we should kneel, rather than sit, the next day during the anthem as a peaceful protest. We chose to kneel because it’s a respectful gesture. I remember thinking our posture was like a flag flown at half-mast to mark a tragedy.
在仔细考虑了几个小时后——中间甚至还有已退役的“绿色贝雷帽”、前NFL球员纳特·博耶(Nate Boyer)到访——我们决定，第二天奏国歌时，我们应该下跪，而非坐着，进行和平抗议。我们决定下跪，因为那是一种表示尊敬的姿势。我记得当时我们认为，我们的姿势就像是为悼念灾难而降下一半的旗帜。
It baffles me that our protest is still being misconstrued as disrespectful to the country, flag and military personnel. We chose it because it’s exactly the opposite. It has always been my understanding that the brave men and women who fought and died for our country did so to ensure that we could live in a fair and free society, which includes the right to speak out in protest.
令我不解的是，我们的抗议依然被误认为是对国家、国旗以及军人的不尊重。我们这样做的目的正好相反。我一直认为，那些勇敢的男男女女的战斗与牺牲，是为了确保我们能在公平、自由的社会中生活，有通过抗议表达自己心声的权利。
It should go without saying that I love my country and I’m proud to be an American. But, to quote James Baldwin, “exactly for this reason, I insist on the right to criticize her perpetually.”
我爱我的祖国，我为自己身为美国人感到骄傲，这是不言而喻的。但是，用詹姆斯·鲍德温(James Baldwin)的话说，“正是因为这个原因，我坚决保留永远批评她的权利。”
I can’t find words that appropriately express how heartbroken I am to see the constant smears against Colin, a person who helped start the movement with only the very best of intentions. We are talking about a man who helped to orchestrate a commercial planeful of food and supplies for famine-stricken Somalia. A man who has invested his time and money into needy communities here at home. A man I am proud to call my brother, who should be celebrated for his courage to seek change on important issues. Instead, to this day, he is unemployed and portrayed as a radical un-American who wants to divide our country.
我无法用言语表达，当我看到对柯林的无休止诬蔑时，我是多么难过，他帮助启动这项运动时满怀善意。这可是一个曾经包了一家商用飞机，向遭受饥荒的索马里运送食物和补给品的人。他还把自己的时间和金钱投入到了国内那些需要帮助的社区里。我很自豪地称他是我的兄弟，我们应该赞扬他努力在重大问题上寻求改变的勇气。然而，直至今日，他仍处于失业状态，被描绘成是意图分裂这个国家的反美激进分子。
Anybody who has a basic knowledge of football knows that his unemployment has nothing to do with his performance on the field. It’s a shame that the league has turned its back on a man who has done only good. I am aware that my involvement in this movement means that my career may face the same outcome as Colin’s. But to quote the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., “A time comes when silence is betrayal.” And I choose not to betray those who are being oppressed.
任何一个大致了解橄榄球的人都知道，他的失业与他在球场上的表现没有任何关系。联盟背弃一个表现优异的人真是令人遗憾。我知道，我参与这项运动意味着我的事业也可能面临和柯林相同的后果。但引用牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)的话说，“当沉默被打破时，一个新时代就到来了。”我选择不背叛那些被压迫的人。
I have too often seen our efforts belittled with statements like “He should have listened to the officer,” after watching an unarmed black person get shot, or “There is no such thing as white privilege” and “Racism ended years ago.” We know that racism and white privilege are both very much alive today.
我经常看到我们的努力被某些评论贬低，比如，在看到一名手无寸铁的黑人被枪杀后说，“他应该听警察的”，或者“没有白人特权这回事”，“种族歧视很多年前已经消失了”。我们知道，种族歧视和白人特权至今依然十分常见。
And it’s disheartening and infuriating that President Trump has referred to us with slurs but the neo-Nazis in Charlottesville, Va., as “very fine people.” His remarks are a clear attempt to deepen the rift that we’ve tried so hard to mend.
令人沮丧而愤怒的是，特朗普总统说我们是信口雌黄的人，而把弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔的新纳粹主义者称为“很好的人”。他的言论显然是为了加深我们在努力弥补的裂痕。
I am nevertheless encouraged to see my colleagues and other public figures respond to the president’s remarks with solidarity with us. It is paramount that we take control of the story behind our movement, which is that we seek equality for all Americans, no matter their race or gender.
不过，我深受鼓舞地看到，我的同事和其他公众人物跟我们团结起来，回应总统的言论。最重要的是，我们掌控着我们运动的宗旨，那就是，为所有美国人——不管什么种族和性别——追求平等。
What we need now is numbers. Some people acknowledge the issues we face yet remain silent bystanders. Not only do we need more of our fellow black and brown Americans to stand with us, but also people of other races.
我们现在需要的是数量。有些人承认，我们面临的问题依然是那些沉默的旁观者。我们不仅需要更多的黑人和有色人种和我们站在一起，也需要其他种族的人。
I refuse to be one of those people who watches injustices yet does nothing. I want to be a man my children and children’s children can be proud of, someone who faced adversity and tried to make a positive impact on the world, a person who, 50 years from now, is remembered for standing for what was right, even though it was not the popular or easy choice.
我拒绝成为那种对不公正袖手旁观的人。我想成为令我的孩子以及子孙后代感到骄傲的人，成为那种面对逆境、努力对世界产生正面影响的人，那种50年后被人认为曾为正义事业挺身而出的人——尽管这不是一个受欢迎或轻松的选择。