In 1996 a “Don Juan DeMarco”-era Johnny Depp went off into the Mojave Desert to make his first, and so far only, feature-length foray into directing. After the weird and wonderful trifecta of “What’s Eating Gilbert Grape,” “Benny & Joon“ and “Ed Wood,” Mr. Depp was cresting the early summit of his career as a movie star. Though notoriously unsuccessful at the box office, Mr. Depp could have probably collected his usual multimillion-dollar payday for any of the top projects in Hollywood then — much as he did with the coming “Lone Ranger.” What he chose instead was “The Brave,” also a movie about an American Indian, but one who agrees to be the subject of a snuff film.
1996年，还处在《天生爱情狂》(Don Juan DeMarco)时代的约翰尼·德普(Johnny Depp)去了一趟莫哈维沙漠，进行他生平第一次，也是唯一一次执导完整长度电影的冒险。凭借怪异而又精彩的表演，德普在《不一样的天空》(What’s Eating Gilbert Grape)、《邦尼和琼》(Benny & Joon)以及《艾德·伍德》(Ed Wood)中取得了三连胜，攀上了影星生涯中的早期高峰。尽管票房成绩欠佳，那个时候的德普本可以选一部好莱坞大片，拿到惯常的几百万美元片酬——正如他在新片《独行侠》(Lone Ranger)里那样。但当时的他却选了《英雄少年历险记》(The Brave)，它同样是一部关于印第安人的电影，但主人公却是自愿成为这部虐杀电影中的被杀对象。
Based on the novel by Gregory McDonald, “The Brave” follows this wastrel-with-a-heart-of-gold (played by Mr. Depp with a David Foster Wallace bandanna) in the last week of his life as he makes peace with his family and spends the $50,000 he has accepted to be tortured and murdered by a spiritual sadist (Marlon Brando). Though it had its premiere at Cannes and, as is typical there, received both a standing ovation and abysmal reviews, the film was never released Stateside. (I bought a Korean import on eBay for about $4.)
《英雄少年历险记》根据格里高尔·麦克唐纳(Gregory McDonald)的小说改编，主人公由德普饰演，颈上系着一条戴维·福斯特·华莱士(David Foster Wallace)式的大手帕。他是个心地善良的浪荡子，自愿被一个精神虐待狂（马龙·白兰度[Marlon Brando]饰）折磨并杀死，以换取5万美元报酬。影片拍摄了他人生的最后一个星期，如何与家人和解并花掉那笔钱。影片在戛纳首映，并得到了电影节的典型待遇——毁誉参半的评价，但它从未能在美国本土放映（我在eBay上花4美元买到了韩国版）。
The movie isn’t terrible, exactly — it’s not good — but it does raise the question: Why? Why spend the celebrity capital (not to mention the financial kind) he had so carefully, if eccentrically, amassed to make it? To get anything done in Hollywood, even if you are Johnny Depp, takes years of often heartbreaking obsession, not to mention millions of dollars. So for him to step behind the camera to make “The Brave,” bringing a historically underrepresented perspective to the screen, suggests he thought it was worth the trouble.
这部片子其实不好也不坏，但问题来了：为什么？为什么要浪费自己小心翼翼，甚至是有些怪异地建立起来的名人声誉（更别提金钱了）去拍这样一部片子？要想在好莱坞取得点成就，就算你是约翰尼·德普，也得经历多年痛苦的努力，更不用说数以百万计的金钱。所以对他来说，站在镜头后面执导《英雄少年历险记》是在表明：为了把一个历史上未被充分呈现的视角搬上银幕，这些麻烦都是值得的。
And that decision makes the choice of this honorary member of the Comanche nation to play the previously unflattering character of Tonto in “The Lone Ranger” all the more surprising.
出于同样的原因，德普，这位印第安科曼奇部族的荣誉成员在《独行侠》中，把本来不怎么讨好的角色——印第安人堂托(Tonto)演绎得十分令人惊喜。
At the time of “The Brave,” John Christopher Depp’s entire mythos was built on rebellion. Even while becoming a Teen Beat sensation in the late ’80s playing the angst-y narc on “21 Jump Street” on television, it was Mr. Depp’s extracurricular reputation — for unsolicited hotel room renovation and for breaking the hearts of doe-eyed gamins — that made him a poster boy for delinquency.
在《英雄少年历险记》的年代，约翰·克里斯托弗·德普(John Christopher Depp)的全部神话都建立在叛逆的基础上。20世纪80年代末，他在电视剧《龙虎少年队》(21 Jump Street)中饰演一个焦虑的缉毒刑警，成为《Teen Beat》杂志上的明星，自那以后叛逆便成了德普的业余特长——他主动帮忙翻新酒店房间，让眼神迷茫的姑娘伤心——这让他成了海报上的不良少年。
His fame mushroomed quickly, out of proportion to his screen accomplishments, partly because of bone structure but mostly because of his cool — cool that he cashed in to meet and play with some of his heroes, including Keith Richards, Hunter S. Thompson and Marlon Brando, making legendary associations that did no harm to his own steadily growing legend.
他的名气迅猛增长，和他在银幕上取得的成就相比，有些名不副实，部分是因为他身材很好，但主要是因为他身上很酷的气质，这种特质令他可以同他心目中的英雄们言谈甚欢，比如基思·理查兹(Keith Richards)、亨特·S·汤普森(Hunter S. Thompson)和马龙·白兰度，他们建立起传奇式的友谊，这对德普渐渐积累起来的传奇生涯有益无损。
“The Brave” was one such play date, reuniting Mr. Depp with his “Don Juan” co-star, Brando. And by trading on the cachet that sold magazines to sell financiers on the movie, he got a chance to explore and expand on his own personal mythology.
《英雄少年历险记》就像一次出游，德普与曾在《天生爱情狂》中合作过的白兰度再度携手。他利用那种令他在杂志上走红的魅力为片子拉到了资金，得到这样一个机会利用和扩展自己的神话。
Mr. Depp, now 50, has often, if vaguely, claimed Cherokee descent (or possibly Creek, he allowed, in 2011) through his Kentuckian grandmother. And playing the vaguely pan-tribal Raphael in “The Brave,” it seems, gave him a chance to inhabit that piece of his identity, albeit with a suffocating lack of subtlety. We may never doubt that Raphael is heroic in Mr. Depp’s eyes, but we begin to suspect that his drinking, his reservation life and unspecified tribal identity are meant to be understood as shorthand for suffering, persecution and injustice. But though it rather bludgeons with earnestness, there is little doubt that this paean to an Indian outlaw was personal for Mr. Depp, a passion project.
现年50岁的德普经常含糊地声称自己是切罗基人的后羿（2011年，他承认也有可能是克里克人），这个血统来自他出生于肯塔基州的祖母。他在《英雄少年历险记》里饰演有点印第安血统的拉斐尔，这似乎给了他一个机会去确认自己的这一部分身份，虽然带点令人透不过气来的直接，不够含蓄。我们或许并不怀疑拉斐尔在德普心目中有英雄气概，但我们开始怀疑，他的酗酒，他在保留地的生活与含混不明的印第安人身份是否应当被理解为对痛苦、迫害与不公的简略表现方式。但它真诚而且沉重，毫无疑问，电影是对这个印第安亡命徒的一曲赞歌，对德普而言具有个人意义，是他激情的产物。
So too, apparently, was Jim Jarmusch’s quiet little black-and-white western “Dead Man,” for which Mr. Depp reportedly turned down the lead roles in “Speed,” “Legends of the Fall” and “Interview With the Vampire.” After suffering an ultimately fatal gunshot wound, his character, an accountant from Cleveland named William Blake, is led through a spiritual wilderness and Mr. Jarmusch’s elegant allegory by an Indian named Nobody (Gary Farmer). Much of the poetry and tender comedy in “Dead Man” comes from Mr. Farmer’s post-Tonto Nobody, winking all the while at cinema’s “savage” past portrayals of American Indians.
吉姆·贾木许(Jim Jarmusch)安静的小制作黑白西部片《离魂异客》显然也是同样的情况，据报道，为了出演这部片子，德普推掉了在《生死时速》(Speed)、《燃情岁月》(Legends of the Fall)和《夜访吸血鬼》(Interview With the Vampire)中饰演主角的机会。他饰演的角色是一个来自克利夫兰的会计，名叫威廉·布莱克(William Blake)，受了致命枪伤后被指引着来到一片灵性的荒野，贾木许还让一位名叫“无人”的印第安人（加利·法梅尔[Gary Farmer]饰）说出优美的寓言。《离魂异客》中的许多诗歌与温和的喜剧效果都来自法梅尔饰演的“无人”，嘲讽着过去电影里塑造的印第安“野人”形象，他堪称堂托的前身。
Beneath the howling Neil Young score and the deadpan comedy, “Dead Man,” is, like “The Brave,” inflected with deep sensitivity to, if not reverence for, native American (and Native American) culture. But, unlike “The Brave,” “Dead Man” is a great film — possibly both Mr. Depp’s and Mr. Jarmusch’s best — the most significant entry in Depp’s catalog of Native Americanalia until “The Lone Ranger” rides into theaters on Wednesday.
除了尼尔·杨(Neil Young)咆哮的配乐与冷笑话，《离魂异客》和《英雄少年奇遇记》一样，对印第安文化十分敏感，到了近乎崇敬的地步。但是，和《英雄少年奇遇记》不同，《离魂异客》是一部好电影——也许对于德普和贾木许来说，都是他们最好的电影了。这是德普拍过的最重要的印第安风格影片——直到周三的《独行侠》上映。
From his inception in film and radio serials of the 1930s, Tonto was only ever rendered in the most simplistic terms, as a foil and companion with whom the otherwise very lone, and thus radio silent, Ranger could interact. In the TV series, which ran 1949-57, the Tonto brought to life by Jay Silverheels, a Canadian Mohawk, uttered sentences so cartoonishly crumpled (“Um, that right, kemo sabe”) they became memorable for all the wrong reasons.
堂托这个角色从20世纪30年代开始在电影和广播剧中出现，只被赋予了最简单的形式，作为孤独的独行侠的衬托与对比，在广播剧里可以和独行侠互动。在1949年到1957年期间播出的电视剧里，堂托由加拿大莫霍克印第安人杰·丝沃黑尔(Jay Silverheels)饰演，他的台词全是卡通化的胡言乱语（“啊，对，kemo sabe”）。尽管理由不怎么对头，但这对搭档还是被观众记住了。
The character may seem a counterintuitive choice for someone who has linked his personal myth with American Indian imagery, but as befits a star who has built his career on playing outlaws and oddballs, Mr. Depp argues that his Tonto is a rebel, upending stereotypes, empowering Indians even. “I wanted to maybe give some hope to kids on the reservations,” he told Rolling Stone in an article this month.
对于德普这种把个人神话与印第安人想象联系起来的人来说，堂托这个角色似乎是违背直觉的选择，但对于一个以饰演亡命徒和怪人起家的演员来说却正合适，德普认为他演绎的堂托是一个反叛者，颠覆了人们心目中的传统形象，为印第安人赋予了更多力量。“我想给保留地的孩子们带去点希望，”本月接受《滚石》(Rolling Stone)采访时，他这么说道。
It would be impressive, even for a self-styled subversive like Mr. Depp, to turn Hollywood’s long, ugly history of American Indian representation on its head with a single movie. And with his feather-festooned Tonto, based on Kirby Sattler’s painting “I Am Crow,” Mr. Depp can again do his scene-stealing bit — as he did in “Pirates of the Caribbean” — and revisit the close-to-home work begun in “Dead Man” and “The Brave.”
即便对德普这样一个独具风格，有颠覆气质的演员来说，以一部电影之力去改变好莱坞漫长丑陋的印第安人形象塑造史，这也非常令人感动。他塑造的堂托身上用羽毛装饰，这个造型来自科比·萨特勒(Kirby Sattler)的油画《我是乌鸦》(I Am Crow)，德普可以再度发挥他的抢戏本领——就像在《加勒比海盗》(Pirates of the Caribbean)里那样——再一次完成他在《离魂异客》和《勇敢少年历险记》中所做的寻根之旅。
But the effort itself is, like all of Mr. Depp’s best work, in character.
但是和德普所有最好的影片一样，这种努力要靠角色去完成。