Americans often dismiss populist promises that emerge on the presidential campaign trail because they are unlikely to be passed by Congress. Should Donald J. Trump get elected, Congress most likely would moderate his proposals to cut taxes, increase spending and even to build a border wall.
美国人通常不会认真考虑民粹主义者在总统竞选过程中所做的承诺，因为它们不太可能会被国会通过。如果唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)当选美国总统，国会很可能会对他的提议进行限制，包括减税、增加开支，乃至修建边境墙。But international trade policy is one area where a President Trump could unilaterally deliver on the changes that he has promised.
然而在国际贸易政策领域，特朗普总统可以单方面实现自己所承诺的变化。
Mr. Trump has said that as president he would “rip up” international trade deals such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, withdraw from the World Trade Organization and sharply raise the tariffs charged on goods imported from China and Mexico. As president he could pretty much do it. And there’s very little Congress can do to stop him, even if the result is a costly trade war.
特朗普曾经表示，当选总统之后，他会“撕毁”北美自由贸易协定(North American Free Trade Agreement)等国际贸易协议，退出世界贸易组织，还会大幅提高中国和墨西哥进口产品的关税。作为总统，特朗普基本上是可以这么做的。就算这些措施会引发代价不菲的贸易战，国会也几乎没什么办法阻止他。
This may seem surprising given that the Constitution explicitly gives Congress the power to “regulate Commerce with foreign Nations.” But over the years Congress has delegated much of that power to the president. Trade politics reflect an important asymmetry: New trade agreements require congressional approval, but undoing existing commitments does not. And so vast areas of international economic policy can be changed with just a president’s say-so.
考虑到宪法明确赋予了国会“管控与国外的贸易”的权力，这种情况似乎有些让人吃惊。但在过去多年里，国会大体上已经将这一权力授予总统。贸易政治反映出一项重要的不对称：新贸易协议需要获得国会批准，撤销现有的协议则不需要。所以国际经济政策领域才会有那么大一部分，只需总统的一句话就可以被改变。
The result is that the usual checks and balances don’t apply. (For anyone wondering, yes, the same rules would apply to Hillary Clinton if she were elected.)
结果就是，通常意义上的制衡并不适用于此。（假如有人好奇的话，的确，一旦希拉里·克林顿当选，也适用同样的规则。）
Mr. Trump is proposing a reordering of the global economic system that would fundamentally reshape the structure of American industry. He could start a trade war that would threaten not only American exporters who need access to foreign markets, but also any business that relies on commodities or products made overseas.
特朗普提议重新建立全球经济体系的秩序，而这会从根本上重塑美国的产业结构。他可以发起贸易战，不仅威胁到需要进入外国市场的美国出口商，还会危及依赖海外生产的大宗商品与产品的所有企业。
Typically, congressional gridlock prevents presidential elections from causing wild swings in policy. For a protectionist president, it has the opposite effect, strengthening his hand. The only way that Congress could block Mr. Trump’s agenda is by passing new legislation to repeal or alter the powers it has previously delegated to the president. But this would require a two-thirds majority in both the House and the Senate to override a likely presidential veto.
一般情况下，国会僵局会阻止总统选举造成政策上的剧烈摇摆。然而，对信奉贸易保护主义的总统而言，这会造成相反的效果，让情况变得对他更有利。国会可能阻止特朗普议程的唯一途径是通过新立法来废除或修正之前移交给总统的权力。可是，这需要在参众两院均取得三分之二的多数才能压倒总统很可能行使的否决权。
Even that might not be enough, if the courts hold that the president’s constitutional power over foreign affairs can be used to terminate trade agreements.
就连那样也可能并不足够，因为可以通过法院裁定，总统在外交事务上的宪法权力可用于终止贸易协议。
Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, outlined this case in a research paper released Monday. Mr. Hufbauer, who holds both a law degree and a doctorate in economics, is a leading scholar of international law and trade and a former deputy assistant secretary for international trade and investment policy at the Treasury Department under President Carter. (I’m also a nonresident fellow at the Peterson Institute.)
彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)的高级研究员加里·赫夫鲍尔(Gary Hufbauer)在周一发表的一篇研究论文中论证了这一观点。赫夫鲍尔拥有法律学位与经济学博士学位，是国际法与贸易领域的知名学者，曾在卡特总统任内担任负责国际贸易与投资政策的财政部副助理部长。（我本人也是彼得森研究所的非常驻研究员。）
Mr. Hufbauer’s analysis is already causing waves among policy wonks in Washington and economists on Wall Street.霍夫鲍尔的分析已在华盛顿的政策专家与华尔街的经济师当中掀起波澜。
The easiest promise for Mr. Trump to deliver is the one to renegotiate or leave Nafta, the agreement that abolished tariffs between the United States, Canada and Mexico. That agreement — like nearly all free trade agreements — includes an escape hatch: The United States can withdraw from the pact after giving six months’ notice. Thus Mr. Trump doesn’t need to rip up the agreement, but simply to send Canada and Mexico a letter putting them on notice.
对特朗普来说，最容易兑现的竞选承诺是重新谈判或干脆退出《北美自由贸易协定》。这项协议废除了美国、加拿大与墨西哥之间关税。它与几乎所有的自由贸易协定一样，包含一个紧急出口：美国可以在提前六个月通知的情况下退出协议。因此，特朗普无需撕毁协议，给加拿大和墨西哥发封通知函即可。
Similar escape hatches would also allow Mr. Trump to withdraw the United States from free trade agreements with other nations, and even from the World Trade Organization. Leaving the World Trade Organization would immediately allow other countries to raise the tariffs they charge on American exports.
类似的紧急出口还允许特朗普让美国退出与其他国家签订的自由贸易协定，乃至退出世界贸易组织。离开该组织将使得其他国家可以立即提高针对美国出口商品的关税。
How has the White House accumulated such powers? As the United States entered World War I, Congress passed the Trading with the Enemy Act, which gave the president the power to regulate all international trade and financial flows, and even to freeze or seize foreign assets. It was an extremely broad grant of power because the law applies to all international commerce, not just that with enemy nations.
白宫究竟如何将这样大的权力累积到手中呢？美国开始参与第一次世界大战的时候，国会通过了《对敌贸易法》(Trading with the Enemy Act)，赋予总统监管所有国际贸易与金融活动的权力，甚至可以冻结或罚没外国资产。这项法律适用于全部的国际商贸活动，并非局限于同敌对国家之间，因此是极为宽泛的授权。
It’s a power meant to be used only in national emergencies or times of war, but this tends to be interpreted very broadly. For instance, the courts allowed President Nixon to add a 10 percent “import surcharge” in 1971, based on the continuing “economic emergency.” Mr. Hufbauer argues that continuing military engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan “would seemingly suffice to satisfy” this requirement.
此项权力本应仅适用于全国紧急状态或战时，但却走向了非常宽泛的诠释。比方说，法院允许尼克松总统以持续的“经济紧急状况”为由在1971年增收10%的“进口附加税”。赫夫鲍尔认为，美国对伊拉克与阿富汗的持续军事介入“似乎足以满足“这项要求。
Alternatively, the president could rely on the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977, originally written to give the president the tools to inflict economic sanctions on America’s enemies. The law could easily be used to restrict trade with just about any country. While the law is supposed to be exercised only in the wake of an “unusual and extraordinary threat,” Mr. Hufbauer says that this is a standard that is easily met, as “the courts have never questioned presidential declarations of a ‘national emergency.’ ”
另外，总统还可以依靠1977年的《国际紧急状态经济权力法》(International Emergency Economic Powers Act)，当初制定这项法案是为了让总统有权对美国的敌人施以经济制裁。总统可以轻而易举地利用它限制与几乎任何国家的贸易。虽然该法案只应适用于出现“异乎寻常的严重威胁”之际，但赫夫鲍尔说，这是一个很容易达到的标准，因为“法院从未对总统宣称的‘国家紧急状态’提出过质疑”。
Beyond these emergency powers, two separate Cold War-era statutes also give the president power to regulate international trade. Under the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, the president can raise tariffs as necessary to strengthen national security. Mr. Trump’s rationale for raising tariffs against Mexico or China probably meet this standard.
除了上述紧急状态下的权力，两项独立的冷战时期法规也赋予了总统管制国际贸易的权力。根据1962年的《贸易拓展法》(Trade Expansion Act)，总统可以把提高关税作为巩固国家安全的必要之举。特朗普所阐述的对墨西哥或中国提高关税的理由，很可能达到了这一标准。
Alternatively, the president can impose tariffs of up to 15 percent for 150 days to deal with balance of payments deficits, under the Trade Act of 1974. Another section of that act gives the president the power to levy a tariff to retaliate against unfair trade practices.
另外，根据1974年的《贸易法》，总统可以以应对国际收支逆差为由，把关税提高15%，为期150天。《贸易法》的另一项条款让总统有权通过征收关税来报复不公平的贸易。
President George W. Bush used that law in 2002 to impose tariffs on steel.
2002年，乔治‧W‧布什总统(President George W. Bush)利用这一法规对钢铁征收了进口关税。
With so many different legal rationales, it seems almost certain that if Mr. Trump became president, he would have the power to create a more isolated American economy.
有了如此多种多样的法律依据，看起来几乎可以肯定，特朗普一旦当上总统，就会拥有把美国经济变得更加孤立的权力。
Of course, his actions would anger our global trading partners. Their remedies are limited, though. After all, even the World Trade Organization recognizes the need for national security exceptions to its rules. Even if Mr. Trump were found to breach their rules, the only recourse for other countries would be to retaliate by raising their own tariffs. It’s a prospect that scares many economists, but appears not to worry Mr. Trump.
他的所做作为必将激怒美国的全球贸易伙伴。但它们的应对之道却颇为有限。毕竟，就连世贸组织也认为，其规则中有必要加入国家安全例外条款。其他国家即便发现特朗普违反了规则，能做的也只是报复性地提高自己的关税。这种前景让许多经济学家感到害怕，但似乎并未困扰到特朗普。
The bottom line, according to Todd Tucker, a fellow at the Roosevelt Institute who has written extensively about the expansion of executive power over international trade law, is that Mr. Hufbauer’s study “confirms that trade liberalization in recent decades sits on much shakier foundations than is commonly acknowledged.”
就行政权力对国际贸易法的过度干预写过许多文章的罗斯福研究所(Roosevelt Institute)研究员托德‧塔克(Todd Tucker)认为，赫夫鲍尔的研究论文至少“证明：近几十年的贸易自由化建立在不太可靠的根基之上，是一个得到普遍承认的事实”。