Canada stopped making pennies in 2012, and with good reason. Coining pennies is a money-losing proposition, and people don’t really need them anymore.
加拿大自2012年开始停止制造1分硬币，是有充足理由的。制造这种硬币是一门赔钱的生意，而且人们已经不再需要它了。
The same is true in the United States. Printing paper currency is hugely profitable for the federal government: The $100 bill is one of the nation’s most valuable exports. Quarters and dimes are moneymakers too. But it costs $1.43 to produce 100 pennies. Last year, making pennies cost taxpayers almost $39 million.
美国的情况也是如此。对联邦政府来说，印纸币是极其有利可图的：100美元纸币是这个国家最有价值的出口产品。25美分和10美分硬币也很赚钱。但每制造100个1分硬币，就要耗费1.43美元。去年，制造1分硬币花费了纳税人近3900万美元。
And for what? The federal government makes and distributes coins to facilitate commerce, but not much can be bought for less than five cents. Thanks to the magic of inflation, what cost a penny in 1950 requires a dime today.
这么做为的是什么呢？联邦政府制造和分发硬币是为了利于商业流通，但不足5美分的钱已经买不了什么东西了。在通胀的魔力作用下，在1950年用1美分可以买到的东西，现在得花10美分。
Average American workers earned nearly a penny a second in 2015. It’s literally not worth their time to bend down and pluck one from the sidewalk.
2015年，每个美国人平均每秒钟就可以赚将近1美分。简直不值得他们花时间弯腰从路边捡起一枚。
In effect, eliminating the penny means all retail prices would end in zero or five. Some prices would rise a few pennies; some would be rounded down. Prices that end in 99 cents are common, and penny proponents have argued that eliminating pennies would amount to a one-cent sales tax. But Robert Whaples, an economist at Wake Forest University, actually examined this claim in 2007 by looking at pricing data from a chain of convenience stores. He reported that the savings from prices rounded down would roughly offset the cost of prices rounded up.
从结果看，取消1美分硬币意味着所有零售价格都将以0或5结尾。有些商品的价格可能会涨几美分；有些则可能把零头抹掉。支持使用1美分硬币的人士称，以99美分结尾的价格非常普遍，所以取消1美分相当于收1美分的销售税。但维克森林大学(Wake Forest University)经济学家罗伯特·霍普里斯(Robert Whaples)在2007年对这种说法进行了检验，方式是查看一系列便利店的价格。他发现，商品价格去零头节省的费用，基本可以抵消化整增加的费用。
Indeed, consumers might actually benefit. Retailers like prices that end in “.99” because people tend to underestimate the actual price. When people see “$4.99,” they tend to pay too much attention to the 4 and not enough to the 99.
实际上，消费者可能会从中受益。零售商喜欢以.99结尾的定价，因为人们容易低估其真实的价格。当人们看到“4.99美元”，他们倾向于将大部分注意力放在前面的4上，而不太注意后面的99。
Yet Americans like the shiny copper (though not much copper) coins. In a 2014 poll, 71 percent of respondents said they do pick up pennies. And 43 percent said they would be “disappointed” or “angry” if the government stopped making them.
问题是，美国人喜欢闪亮的铜币（尽管里面并没有多少铜）。2014年的一项民意调查显示，71%的受调查者表示，他们会捡起1美分硬币。还有43%的人表示，如果政府停止制造1分硬币，他们会“感到失望”或“愤怒”。
Aaron Sorkin posited through an episode of “The West Wing” that the government keeps making pennies because Abraham Lincoln is on the front, and lawmakers from Illinois, in particular, are reluctant to eliminate a ubiquitous tribute.
编剧亚伦·索尔金(Aaron Sorkin)在《白宫风云》(The West Wing)的一集中做出了这样的推断，即政府继续制造1美分硬币，是因为它的正面有亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)的头像，伊利诺伊州的议员尤其不愿意取消这种无所不在的致敬方式。
President Obama, however, does not number among the sentimentalists. He said in 2013 he saw no reason to make pennies. “It’s one of those things where I think people get attached emotionally to the way things have been,” he said.
然而，奥巴马总统不属于这类多愁善感的人。他曾在2013年表示，他觉得没有理由再制造1分硬币。“我认为，这种事属于人们在情感上对往昔岁月依依不舍，”他说。
He also offered what is probably the best explanation for the continued production of pennies: Congress struggles to accomplish even the most obvious tasks.
他也为政府继续生产1分硬币提供了可能是最好的解释：哪怕是最显而易见的任务，在国会也难以实现。
The penny, Mr. Obama said, is “a good metaphor for some of the larger problems that we’ve got.” The government, he said, has a poor track record of getting “rid of things that don’t work so that we can then invest in the things that do.”
奥巴马称，1美分硬币是“一个很好的隐喻，象征着我们存在的一些更大的问题”。他还表示，在“去除已经没有用的东西，以便我们在可行的东西上进行投入”方面，政府做得很差。