The identification of Khalid and Ibrahim el-Bakraoui as suicide bombers in the deadly Brussels attacks is confronting investigators and counterterrorism experts with a disturbingly recurrent question: Why do so many terrorists turn out to be brothers?
哈立德·巴克拉维(Khalid el-Bakraoui)和易卜拉欣·巴克拉维(Ibrahim el-Bakraoui)被确认是在布鲁塞尔开展致命攻击的自杀式炸弹袭击者，这给调查人员及反恐专家提出一个令人不安的复现问题：为什么有这么多恐怖分子是兄弟？
The Bakraouis join a list of brothers involved in nearly every major terror attack on Western soil since three sets of Saudi siblings were among the 19 hijackers who carried out the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States. Before then, the grim roster included 19th-century French anarchists, militants in Southeast Asia and the Jewish extremists who assassinated Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel in 1995.
2011年9月11日，19名劫机者在美国实施恐怖袭击，其中包括三对沙特阿拉伯兄弟，此后，几乎每一次在西方国家开展的重大恐怖袭击行动都有兄弟参与，其中包括巴克拉维兄弟。在那以前，这份恐怖的名单里还包含19世纪法国的无政府主义者、东南亚的武装分子和1995年暗杀以色列总理伊扎克·拉宾(Yitzhak Rabin)的犹太极端分子。
For terror groups, brothers can be ideal recruits. They radicalize each other while reinforcing a sense of purpose and ideological calling. They keep watch on each other to ensure an attack is carried out. One new study suggests that up to 30 percent of members of terrorist groups share family ties.
对于恐怖组织来说，这种兄弟档属于理想成员。他们在推动彼此激进化的同时，强化使命感和意识形态的召唤。他们互相监督，确保袭击的实施。一项新研究发现，高达30%的恐怖组织成员存在亲属关系。
Siblings also present a formidable challenge for law enforcement. They often live in the same house. They can communicate easily, without using cellphones that are vulnerable to surveillance. And the glue of family can often — though not always — serve as insurance against one member of a cell betraying the mission to the authorities.
这种兄弟档还给执法行动带来难以对付的挑战。他们通常住在一起。他们很容易沟通，不用使用容易遭到监控的手机。这种家庭关联经常——尽管并非总是——可以成为一种保障，防止组织成员将任务内容泄露给当局。
“Brothers would likely be exposed to similar radical messages, and they might well debate and brainstorm together about them,” said Audrey Kurth Cronin, an author and scholar at George Mason University. “And if you can rely on a family member in your plotting, it’s probably less likely that they’ll go to the police. It’s a question of security and trust.”
“兄弟们可能会接收到同样的激进信息，他们可能会一起好好讨论，进行头脑风暴，”乔治·梅森大学(George Mason University)学者、作家奥德丽·库尔思·克罗宁(Audrey Kurth Cronin)说。“如果你在密谋的过程中可以依赖家庭成员，那他们不太可能去告诉警方。这是有关安全和信任的问题。”
That the Brussels bombings were carried out by brothers is particularly striking because they appear to be connected with the Nov. 13 terror assault on Paris that killed 130 people. The Bakraouis are suspected of belonging to the same terror cell as Salah Abdeslam, who was arrested last week in Brussels and is considered the only surviving participant in the Paris assault. Mr. Abdeslam’s brother, Ibrahim, detonated a suicide belt at a cafe during the Paris rampage.
布鲁塞尔爆炸袭击行动是由兄弟开展的，这一点尤其引人注目，因为他们似乎与11月13日巴黎恐怖袭击事件有关，那次的袭击导致130人死亡。相关部门怀疑巴克拉维兄弟与上周在布鲁塞尔被捕的萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)属于同一恐怖组织，后者被认为是巴黎袭击事件中唯一活下来的参与者。他的兄弟易卜拉欣(Ibrahim)当时在巴黎的一家咖啡馆引爆了自杀腰带。
The list goes on: in January 2015, the Kouachi brothers, Chérif and Saïd, gunned down 12 people in the Paris offices of the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo; the Tsarnaev brothers, Dzhokhar and Tamerlan, carried out the 2013 bombings at the Boston Marathon.
这样的例子还有很多：2015年1月，库阿希兄弟——赛义德(Saïd)和谢里夫(Chérif)——在法国讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)位于巴黎的办公室枪杀12人；萨纳耶夫兄弟——焦哈尔(Dzhokhar)和塔梅尔兰(Tamerlan)2013年制造了波士顿马拉松爆炸袭击事件。
“Violent extremism spreads through social contact, and for most people, siblings are a big and important part of their social environment,” said J. M. Berger, a terrorism analyst and co-author of “ISIS: The State of Terror.” “You may feel you can talk to a sibling about matters you can’t discuss with others.”
“暴力极端主义通过社会关系传播，对于大多数人来说，兄弟是其社会环境中的很大且很重要的一部分，”恐怖主义问题分析人士J·M·伯杰(J.M. Berger)说。“你可能觉得可以跟兄弟讨论一些无法跟别人诉说的事情。”伯杰与人合著了《ISIS：恐怖之国》(ISIS: The State of Terror)一书。
The same dynamics that inform any sibling relationship are at play among brothers who radicalize, experts said. It is often the older brother who influences the younger one, though not always: At Charlie Hebdo, investigators believe, the younger brother, Chérif, was the more militant.
专家们表示，兄弟关系中的规律在那些激进化的兄弟中也有所体现。通常是哥哥影响弟弟，但也并非总是如此：调查人员认为在《查理周报》袭击案中，更为激进的是弟弟谢里夫。
In the case of the Boston Marathon bombers, who were from a Chechen immigrant family, investigators found a complex dynamic. To all outward appearance, Dzhokhar, a college student, was far better integrated into American life, and more sociable, than his glum, troubled older brother, Tamerlan, who died in a shootout with the police after the bombing.
在波士顿马拉松爆炸袭击案中，袭击者来自车臣移民家庭，调查人员发现一个比较复杂的情况。大学生焦哈尔从外表上看更好地融入了美国生活，比他那阴郁、麻烦不断的哥哥塔梅尔兰更为友善，爆炸发生后，塔梅尔兰在与警方的枪战中死亡。
Defense lawyers for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev tried to portray him as being bullied by his older brother to participate in the plot, but a Boston jury rejected that argument and recommended the death penalty.
焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫的辩护律师试图称他遭到哥哥威吓，参与密谋，但波士顿的陪审团决绝接受这一理由，建议判处死刑。
Mia Bloom, co-author of “All in the Family: A Primer on Terrorist Siblings,” cited scholarly research showing that as many as a third of the people terror groups send to carry out attacks came from the same family. Examples abound of jihadists marrying a sister or daughter to another jihadist family in order to build alliances.
米娅·布鲁姆(Mia Bloom)援引学术研究称，在恐怖组织派去实施袭击的人员中，有多达三分之一的人来自同一家庭。圣战分子娶另一名圣战分子的姐妹或女儿以建立联盟的情况数不胜数。布鲁姆与人合著了《一家人：恐怖分子兄弟初探》(All in the Family: A Primer on Terrorist Siblings)一书。
“These groups are always worried about infiltration,” Ms. Bloom said. “When a family member tried to join, it’s a great vetting mechanism. Then they know they can trust them.”
“这些组织总是担心渗透问题，”布鲁姆说。“当一名家庭成员试图加入时，这是一个非常棒的审查机制。他们知道他们可以相信这些人。”
In carrying out an operation, siblings sometimes work in tandem. The Kouachi brothers burst into the Charlie Hebdo offices together. On Sept. 11, the three pairs of Saudi siblings initially sat side by side aboard the airliners that hit the World Trade towers and the Pentagon. The national 9/11 commission reported that one of them, Nawaf al-Hazmi, had pleaded with Osama bin Laden to let his younger brother Salem join the mission, and they ended up in the fifth row of American Airlines Flight 77 bound for Washington.
在开展行动时，兄弟有时会互相合作。库阿希兄弟一同冲入《查理周报》办公室。9月11日，三对沙特阿拉伯兄弟并排坐在冲向世贸大厦和五角大楼的飞机上。国家“9·11委员会”(9/11 Commission)报告称，其中一人——纳瓦夫·哈米兹(Nawaf al-Hazmi)曾请求奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)准许他的弟弟萨利姆(Salem)加入任务小组，他们最终坐在了飞往华盛顿的美国航空77号班机的第五排座位上。
But Ms. Bloom said her research showed that siblings were often purposely sent to different locations, as with the Abdeslam brothers in Paris (Salah drove a fellow plotter to the soccer stadium; Ibrahim detonated a suicide vest at a cafe).
但布鲁姆表示，她的研究显示，兄弟通常会被有意派往不同地方，比如阿卜杜勒萨拉姆兄弟在巴黎的行动（萨拉赫开车载着同伙进入足球场，易卜拉欣则在咖啡馆引爆自杀式炸弹背心）。
“The reason for this is the fear that if the siblings are sent to the same location, one might convince the other to defect, because of the love of their sibling,” said Ms. Bloom, a professor of communications at Georgia State University. When sent to different locations, she added, “They will each go through with it because they do not want to disappoint their sibling and they cannot face the idea of going on without them.”
“他们之所以这么做是担心如果把这些兄弟派到同一个地方，其中一人或许会出于兄弟之情，说服另一人叛变，”乔治亚州立大学(Georgia State University)传播学教授布鲁姆说。她还表示，当被派去不同的地方时，“他们都会完成任务，因为他们不想让兄弟失望，他们无法想象一个人继续执行任务的情形。”
The Belgian authorities said on Wednesday that Ibrahim el-Bakraoui, 29, set off one of the two bombs at the airport, and his brother Khalid, 27, the one at the subway station more than an hour later; it remains unclear whether Khalid was first at the airport.
比利时当局在周三表示，29岁的易卜拉欣·巴克拉维在机场引爆了两枚炸弹中的一枚，他的弟弟——27岁的哈立德一个多小时之后在地铁站引爆炸弹；目前尚不清楚哈立德起初是否在机场。
In her study, Ms. Bloom identified a similar case of Chechen suicide bombers in Russia in 2004: Amanat Nagayeva blew herself up on a flight from Moscow to Volgograd, killing everyone on board; a week later, her sister Rosa killed herself and 10 other people outside the Rishkaya subway station in Moscow.
布鲁姆在研究中发现，2004年车臣自杀式爆炸袭击者在俄罗斯的行动与之类似：阿马纳特·纳格叶娃(Amanat Nagayeva)在从莫斯科飞往伏尔加格勒的飞机上引爆自己，导致机上所有人员遇难；一周之后，她的姐妹罗莎(Rosa)在莫斯科里加地铁站外自杀，并导致其他10人死亡。
Law enforcement officials are puzzling over how to detect terror cells within a family.
执法官员在苦心思索如何发现一个家庭中的恐怖团伙。
“Our traditional counterterror capabilities were designed to pick up the communications and interaction between an attacker and the command and control structure of the organization,” said John Cohen, who until 2014 served as the counterterrorism coordinator at the Department of Homeland Security and is now a professor of criminal justice at Rutgers University.
“我们传统的反恐能力就是发现袭击者与指挥者之间的交流与互动，以及组织的指挥结构，”罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)刑事司法教授约翰·科恩(John Cohen)说，科恩在国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)担任反恐协调员至2014年。
Psychologists who study terrorism say that the two-person cell may be a recent adaptation to increased security measures — whether they are brothers, as in Brussels, Paris and Boston, or husband and wife, as in the San Bernardino, Calif., attacks in December that killed 14.
研究恐怖主义的心理学家表示，这种两人的团伙或许是恐怖组织最近为了应对强化的安全举措而进行的调整，无论他们是兄弟，比如布鲁塞尔、巴黎和波士顿的事件，还是夫妇，比如去年12月在加州圣贝纳迪诺枪杀14人的夫妇。
“What’s powerful about these pairs is that they increase capacity for doing damage but not the vulnerability to detection, because of the tightness of the tie,” said Clark McCauley, a research professor at Bryn Mawr College who has studied radical groups. “It’s a creative solution; you get more hands to help than a lone wolf, but the same kind of security.”
“这些组合的强大之处在于，他们增加了破坏的威力，但并不会提高被发现的几率，因为这种联系很紧密，”一直从事激进组织研究的布林莫尔学院(Bryn Mawr College)教授克拉克·麦考利(Clark McCauley)表示。“这种办法很聪明；比独狼多了人手来帮忙，又不需要增添安全措施。”
Radical groups through history have long included siblings, lovers and friends, whether the Symbionese Liberation Army in California, the Weather Underground, the Marxist Red Brigades in Italy or the Baader-Meinhof gang in Germany.
历史上，激进团体一直有同时招募手足、情侣和友人的传统，无论是加州的共生解放军(Symbionese Liberation Army)、地下气象人(Weather Underground)、意大利的马克思主义红色旅(Marxist Red Brigades)，还是德国的巴德尔-迈恩霍夫帮(Baader-Meinhof)。
In those larger group situations, experts say, members try to one-up each other, pushing the group to endorse ever more violent action. This dynamic is likely muted in sibling or relative pairs, but the more radical member still often pulls the other along, McCauley said, especially if they feel imminent threat.
专家表示，在人数更多的时候，成员之间会想要一争高下，于是让整个团体投入到越来越暴力的行动中去。麦考利称，这种竞争在手足或亲戚构成的两人组合中大概受到了抑制，但更激进的那一个还是往往会拉上另一个，尤其是他们感觉到威胁迫在眉睫的时候。
Prosecutors in Belgium announced Wednesday that they had found a suicide note, or will, that one of the brothers, Ibrahim, had left on his computer, saying he was in a “bad situation” and risked arrest, after the authorities caught Salah Abdeslam on Friday. Ariel Merari, an Israeli scholar thought to have interviewed more terrorists than anyone, has described this sensation of urgency a “10 minutes to midnight feeling” — in other words: time to act.
比利时的检察部门周三宣布，他们找到了兄弟二人中的易卜拉欣在电脑上留下的遗书或遗嘱，其中表示，在当局上周五抓到萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)之后，他“处境不妙”，面临被捕的危险。普遍认为，以色列学者阿里埃勒·梅拉里(Ariel Merari)采访的恐怖分子比其他人都多。他把这种紧迫感描述为“离午夜只差10分钟的感觉”——换句话说就是：赶紧行动。
Experts are still examining how often uninvolved family members may be aware of terrorist' plotting. A 2014 study in the Journal of Forensic Sciences analyzed the behaviors of 119 “lone-wolf” terrorists and found that in nearly two thirds of the cases, family and friends knew the person wanted to commit an act of violence. But in some cases, relatives are strongly opposed: The U.S. terrorist known as the Unabomber, Ted Kaczynski, for instance, was finally caught and convicted because his brother, David, had alerted the authorities to his suspicions.
专家们还在研究，置身事外的家庭成员对恐怖分子的谋划有所了解的几率有多大。《司法鉴定期刊》(Journal of Forensic Sciences)在2014年刊登的一篇论文分析了119名“独狼”恐怖分子的行为，发现在近三分之二的案件中，亲友知晓恐怖分子从事暴力行为的意愿。不过，在有些例子中，亲戚是坚决反对的：比如，人称“大学炸弹客”的美国恐怖分子泰德·卡辛斯基(Ted Kaczynski)之所以最后落网并被定罪，是因为他的弟弟戴维(David)对当局举报了他的嫌疑。
Little is yet known about the relationship between the Bakraouis, who are of Moroccan origin and grew up in Laeken, a working-class neighborhood in Brussels, not far from the Royal Palace. Their father, Jamal El Bakraoui, is a devoted Muslim and a retired butcher, according to Marcelline Mertens, a neighbor. Mertens recalled the brothers as ordinary teenagers, not especially religious, who disappeared from the neighborhood about five or six years ago. During this period, they were separately convicted of crimes including carjacking and engaging in a shootout with police.
巴克拉维兄弟之间的关系到底如何，我们还没什么了解。二人是摩洛哥后裔，在离布鲁塞尔王宫不远的蓝领社区拉肯长大。邻居马塞利娜·梅尔滕斯(Marcelline Mertens)称，他们的父亲贾迈勒·巴克拉维(Jamal el-Bakraoui)是虔诚的穆斯林，曾是肉贩，现已退休。在梅尔滕斯的记忆中，兄弟二人青少年时期普普通通，宗教色彩并没有特别浓厚，但五六年前他们从社区消失了。在此期间，他们各自从事了一些犯罪行为，包括抢劫汽车，与警方对射等。