Sex on TV is more risque, more graphic and more raunchy than ever. So why is it so incredibly unsexy?
如今，电视上的性爱比以往任何时候都愈加色情、大胆、露骨。但为什么这些性爱内容又如此之不性感呢？
It is occasionally tempting to wonder whether long-form narrative television is the most powerful binding agent that today’s midlife relationship possesses — our equivalent of golf, or bridge, or swinging. If you have ever woken up to the prospect of an unmanageable day at work, to phone calls and logistics and a half-emptied refrigerator, then you are likely familiar with the feeling of looking forward with near erotic anticipation to the hour when it will be possible to watch consecutive episodes of “Homeland.” Television has become such a prominent dimension of intimate coupled existence that arguably any contemporary marital vow might benefit from the inclusion of a phrase like, “In addition to loving you from now until the end of time, I commit to never bail midway through an acclaimed cable drama.”
有时候你不禁会想，长篇电视剧是否已经成为人到中年感情生活最强大的感情强化剂——它是否已经成为高尔夫、桥牌或者换妻的替代品。如果你曾经某天一醒来就因为工作上的麻烦事而焦头烂额，面对无穷无尽的电话、后勤问题和半空的冰箱，你一定曾有过这种熟悉的感觉：好像期盼着某种情欲活动一般热切期待着回家坐在电视机前和另一半连看数集《国土安全》(Homeland)。电视已经成为两人感情世界中如此重要的一部分，如今的婚姻誓言倒不如加上这句话：“我爱你到海枯石烂，并且发誓永远不在黄金剧集看到一半时跑开。”
Good television — television worthy of consideration as art — has been with us for over a decade now, beginning with the ascendancy of HBO and “The Sopranos” at a time when Hollywood was veering away from making movies gripped by the complexities of adult life and focusing more on entertainment for children. It is hardly remarkable that a medium catering to adults — particularly a medium that at the current moment is so often consumed by adults together in bed — would make significant investments in sex.
自从称得上艺术品的经典电视剧集最初出现，距今已经10年有余。它以HBO的崛起，以及《黑道家族》(The Sopranos)的上映为标识。当时正值好莱坞逐渐远离描写复杂成人生活的电影，转向为儿童提供娱乐。这样看来就不难理解，为什么电视作为主要面向成人——尤其是在床上一起看电视的成人——的媒体，会在性爱内容上不惜血本大笔投资。
Eight years ago, the Kaiser Family Foundation conducted a study revealing that the subject of sex had become more prevalent than ever on television. If those researchers tuned in today, they would find plenty of sweaty-bodied, unexpurgated sex, but what’s striking about the current depiction is how much of it just isn’t sexy — how much of it is divorced from any real sense of eroticism or desire. The audience, at home in bed in need of diversion, is betrayed. What they get instead is sex that is transactional, utilitarian — the end product of a kind of twisted careerism. Is this the sex we deserve? Possibly it is — at a time of such relentless obsession on work-family “balance,” an obsession that leaves little cultural room to think about more pleasurable kinds of human engagement.
八年前，凯撒家庭基金会(Kaiser Family Foundation)的一项调查显示，电视上的性爱内容比以往任何时候都更加泛滥。如果那些调查人员再看看今天的电视，他们仍旧能找到大量颠鸾倒凤、毫无剪辑的性爱场面——但真正令人震惊的是，如今电视上大量性爱内容毫无性感可言，与真实的欢愉感和情欲完全脱钩。那些躺在家中床上、想获得消遣的成人观众被骗了。如今充斥屏幕的是交易性的、功能性的性爱——工作狂们扭曲生活的最终产品。难道这是我们值得拥有的性爱？也许是吧——如今人们偏执于所谓“工作—家庭平衡”，根本没留下任何文化空间给更加令人愉悦的人际交流。
On the Netflix political drama, “House of Cards,” for example, an aging and vengeful congressman, Frank Underwood, played by Kevin Spacey, performs oral sex on a young woman while she is lying on her bed in black lacy underwear in a grungy apartment that offends her lover’s bourgeois tastes. It is not that the act itself is so shocking — though it certainly gets your attention — but rather that the woman is receiving her lover’s services while she is on the phone with her father wishing him a happy Father’s Day. I’ve felt more comfortable at funerals.
以Netflix电视台的政治剧集《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)为例，凯文·斯派西(Kevin Spacey)扮演的报复心极强的中年议员弗兰克·安德伍德(Frank Underwood)，在一间简陋肮脏、令他不屑一顾的小公寓的床上，给身着黑色蕾丝内裤的年轻女记者口交。这个场面本身固然惹眼，但也算不上惊世骇俗——真正令人震撼的是女记者同时还在给她的父亲打电话，祝他父亲节快乐。这简直比葬礼都更令人感到压抑。
“House of Cards” has Underwood married to a beautiful director of a nonprofit environmental agency, their relationship forged in shared ambition and their intimacy confined to the late-night cigarette they share at their Washington town house. When a marriage is an arrangement, an affair conducted outside it is presumably meant to be a good time. But Underwood’s encounters with a treacherously ambitious reporter don’t merely serve as release. They are orchestrated with distinct professional purpose — he supplies leaks that facilitate his agenda and she lies on her back as a method of advanced source management.
在《纸牌屋》中，安德伍德的妻子是一位高雅美丽的非盈利环保组织负责人，他们的关系基于共同的野心，而两人仅有的亲密时刻就是深夜在他们位于华盛顿的豪宅里共享一支烟。当婚姻成为一种互利的安排，婚外情按理说应该是享受的时候，但安德伍德与那位野心勃勃而善变的女记者的数次幽会，也并非仅为发泄欲望。这些精心安排的幽会同时带有明确的职业目的：他向她泄露消息以帮助自己达成政治目标，而她与他做爱则是维护关系网的高级形式。
The trade of sex for information fuels much of the story line on “The Americans” on FX. The series revolves around a pair of Soviet spies, joined together by the K.G.B. to pose as an indistinct suburban Washington couple in the early 1980s. As Philip and Elizabeth Jennings, Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys comport themselves with various identities and do a lot of costumed sleeping around, in the service of a Soviet cold war victory. In one episode, Elizabeth, in a silky blouse and a working girl’s lingerie, makes her way to the hotel room of a man who has information that the K.G.B. wants. He unwittingly lets a pertinent data point slip after a rote sexual escapade that is then followed by a whip taken to Elizabeth’s back. The submission to S-and-M is a sacrifice Elizabeth makes with great unwillingness and the cost of her work is evident later by the large welts on her back.
以性爱交换信息的主题，同样贯穿于FX电视台的《美国谍梦》(The Americans)全剧。这部剧集讲述的是1980年代，苏联克格勃派出的一对间谍扮成一对住在华盛顿郊外的普通夫妇。凯莉·罗素(Keri Russell)和马修·瑞思(Matthew Rhys)扮演这对间谍夫妇菲利普和伊丽莎白·詹宁斯(Elizabeth Jennings)，他们在剧中使用各种假身份，为了苏联获得冷战胜利，以色相为交换，到处刺探情报。在其中一集，伊丽莎白一身妓女打扮，身着丝质上衣，到一个酒店房间为一个男人服务，因为他掌握克格勃需要的情报。一番乏味的颠鸾倒凤之后，他无意间提到一个有用的信息点，而伊丽莎白为了获得进一步信息不惜与他大玩虐待性游戏，忍受他的鞭打。她非常不情愿付出这种牺牲，后来她后背上巨大的鞭痕也印证了她为情报付出的代价。
Like “The Americans,” “Homeland” belongs to a genre that cannot really depend on evocations of sexual honesty. The chemistry between Carrie Mathison, a psychologically complicated C.I.A. agent, and Nicholas Brody, a former Marine Corps scout sniper and prisoner of war, is certainly palpable, reliant on questions about who Brody really is and what his commitments to terrorist ideologies may or may not be. (Cable drama is so full of concealed selves you rarely know whom you are sleeping with — the desultory Don Draper, or the desultory Dick Whitman; Dexter the vigilante serial killer who likes you, Dexter the vigilante who will send you to prison or worse.) Carrie and Brody seem to have genuine feelings for each other, but the sex between them is still not a pure expression of emotional hunger. When they took to loud and energized lovemaking on a motel room dresser last season, the undercurrent was Carrie’s need to get Brody to return to his covert government work. The titillation the audience may have experienced is quickly erased when the camera shifts to a roomful of government agents listening remotely. Among them, queasily, is Saul, Carrie’s older, paternal mentor.
与《美国谍梦》一样，《国土安全》也是那种充斥了虚情假意性爱的题材剧。性格复杂的女主角、CIA特工凯莉·麦蒂森(Carrie Mathison)与曾被敌人俘虏的海军陆战队员尼古拉斯·布罗迪之间(Nicholas Brody)的关系扣人心弦，同时又与他的真实身份以及他是否真的被恐怖分子洗脑等问题密不可分（各家有线电视台的黄金剧集中都不乏‘虚假身份’题材——《广告狂人》[Mad Man]中，漫不经心的男主角究竟是唐·德雷帕[Don Draper]还是迪克·惠特曼[Dick Whitman]？《嗜血法医》[Dexter]中自我正义的连环杀手究竟是温情脉脉还是暗藏杀机？)凯莉与布罗迪似乎对彼此怀有真实情感，但两人的床上戏仍旧不只是纯粹的情感饥渴的表达。上一季中，两人在一家汽车旅馆的梳妆台上做爱的场景，看似男欢女爱真情迸发，但背后的故事是凯莉希望布罗迪重归双重间谍身份，为政府卖命。即便观众一时受性爱场景感染而春情萌动，镜头切换到一屋子特工在远处窃听的场景，令人顿时性致全无。更让人难堪的是，那一屋子特工中就有与凯莉情同父女、担任其师父的资深特工索尔(Saul)。
Sexual voyeurism has itself become a running theme on cable dramas, but even there we are shortchanged. Based on the research of William Masters and Virginia Johnson, in the 1950s, the forthcoming Showtime series “Masters of Sex” offers us sex in all its clinical glory. The initial episode has Michael Sheen, as Masters, peering through a key hole as we get a broad view of the joyless act he is observing between a prostitute and her unappealing client. His accessories are a clipboard and a stopwatch he uses to keep track of how long it takes the various parties to climax. At home in his own life, sex too is work — his wife is having a hard time conceiving even though Masters himself is a fertility specialist. Procreative sex for the age of procreation fetish.
窥淫本身也已经成为有线电视剧集的惯用题材之一，但仍旧不会给观众带来任何快感。即将上映的以1950年代威廉·马斯特斯(William Masters)和弗吉尼亚·约翰逊的性学研究为原型的Showtime电视台剧集《性爱大师》(Masters of Sex)，为观众全方位展现了性行为之大观。在第一集中，我们随迈克尔·西恩扮演的马斯特斯的视角，从钥匙孔里窥视一位妓女和她那丑陋的顾客之间毫无乐趣的交易行为。马斯特斯的随身工具包括一个记事本和一只秒表，用来记录下每一位试验对象达到性高潮所需要的时间。即使是回到了家里，性行为仍旧是工作：尽管马斯特斯自己就是生育专家，他的妻子仍旧一直难以怀孕。在迷恋生育的时代，以生育为目的的性行为也是一种恋物癖。
It is this sort of thing that makes one subversively nostalgic for the era when movies like “Fatal Attraction” and “9 1/2 Weeks” made currency of raw sex and untrammeled desire. Several years ago I happened to watch “Bull Durham” and what had escaped memory was the vibrant physical use Susan Sarandon and Kevin Costner made of each other within the context of a comedy about minor league baseball. The scenes are more explicit than anything we might see today. The film seemed so from another time that it almost felt futuristic. Yes, children, sex really was once fun.
以上种种，令人对《致命诱惑》(Fatal Attraction,1987)和《九周半》(9 1/2 Weeks,1986)这些老电影的时代顿感伤怀，尽管这些电影只是把粗犷的性爱和不羁的欲望当做商品贩卖而已。几年前，我偶然重温了《百万金臂》(Bull Durham,1988)，发觉自己已经不记得在这部以职业棒球小联盟为背景的喜剧片中，苏珊·萨兰登(Susan Sarandon)和凯文·科斯特纳(Kevin Costner)居然有如此之多让人兴奋的性爱场景。这些场景远比今天的任何影视内容更加露骨，与当今的时代如此格格不入，甚至显得有些超前。真的，孩子们，性爱曾经是如此的美妙。