At first glance, this was a controversy tailor-made for the immediate boiling outrage of social media.
乍一看，这就是那种立马会在社交媒体上点燃熊熊怒火的事件。
United Airlines was besieged by an angry public after a gate agent refused to let two teenagers board a flight to Minneapolis at Denver International Airport on Sunday because they were wearing leggings. The outcry was swift and furious.
周日，联合航空(United Airlines)在丹佛国际机场(Denver International Airport)的一名登机口检票员拒绝让两名穿紧身裤的女孩登上一趟飞往明尼阿波利斯的班机，之后这家公司便遭到愤怒的公众“围攻”。这种强烈的抗议，不仅来得迅疾，而且十分猛烈。
The model Chrissy Teigen said she would fly topless the next time she flew United. The actor William Shatner snarked about pants he once wore on the set of “Star Trek.” Calls for boycotts of United flooded social media sites.
模特克丽茜·泰根(Chrissy Teigen)表示，她下次会不穿上衣乘坐联合航空的飞机。演员威廉姆·沙特纳(William Shatner)调侃自己曾经在《星际迷航》(Star Trek)的片场穿过与之类似的裤子。
United wouldn’t back down, saying initially that the barring was justified because gate agents could ban anyone who was not “properly clothed.” But this only fueled the bubbling controversy.
联合航空不打算让步。该公司最初表示，阻止登机的做法是合理的，因为登机口检票员可以禁止任何“着装不当”的人登机。但这种表态只是让正在形成的争议进一步扩大。
Hours later, United issued a clarification, saying that the teenagers and their parents had been traveling with “pass riders,” tickets given to employees or their friends at a heavily discounted rate, and that with this comes the responsibility of a dress code.
几小时后，联合航空进行了澄清，表示这两个女孩及其父母是凭“通行证乘客”票飞行，即以很大的折扣提供给航空公司员工或他们的朋友的机票，而享受这样的机票优惠就有责任遵守公司的着装要求。
“When taking advantage of this benefit, all employees and pass riders are considered representatives of United,” read a statement that United posted late on Sunday evening. “And like most companies, we have a dress code that we ask employees and pass riders to follow. The passengers this morning were United pass riders and not in compliance with our dress code for company benefit travel.”
“在享受这样的福利的时候，所有的员工和通行证乘客都被认为代表着联合航空的形象，”联合航空在周日夜间发布的一份声明中写道。“像大多数公司一样，我们有需要员工和通行证乘客遵守的着装要求。今天上午被阻止登机的乘客是联合航空的通行证乘客，他们的服装不符合我们对享受公司飞行福利的人提出的着装要求。”
These are tickets that are typically left over, usable when there are empty seats on a plane. The regular paying passengers are known in the business as “revenue customers.”
这些机票通常是没卖出去剩下来的，当飞机上有空位时就可以使用。普通付费乘客在业内则被称为“收益乘客”。
While some details of this tale remain murky — as of right now, the family remains anonymous — dress codes for employees, their families and friends who are traveling on free or discounted passes have been in place for decades, although not all are strictly enforced.
尽管这个故事的一些细节仍然模糊不清——截止目前，这家人的身份还没有公开——但是对持免费或有折扣机票飞行的员工及其亲友的着装要求已经存在几十年，虽然并不总是严格执行。
Both of Betty Horne’s parents, for example, worked in the aviation industry, and both for United. Her mother was a flight attendant and her father a flight engineer. Ms. Horne, 60, said she had started taking discounted flights thanks to her parents in the 1950s, and even then took great pains in the way she dressed.
比如，贝蒂·霍恩(Betty Horne)的父母都在航空业工作，都是联合航空的员工。她的母亲是一名乘务员，父亲是一名空乘机械师。现年60岁的霍恩表示，因为父母的缘故，她从上世纪50年代开始享受打折机票，甚至在那个时候都要为飞机上的着装操心。
“As a small kid, there wasn’t that much of a problem because we were always in dresses,” Ms. Horne said. “That was just not an option. We always dressed up. In the late ’60s, early ’70s, that was when I was really concerned with whether I was meeting standards or not.”
“这对小孩来说不算多大个事，因为我们总是穿裙子，”霍恩说。“那时没得选择的。我们总是穿戴得很精神。在60年代末、70年代初，我是真的很担心自己的着装是不是符合标准。”
United explicitly bans “form-fitting lycra/spandex tops, pants and dresses,” along with “any attire that reveals a midriff,” “mini skirts,” “bare feet” and many others.
联合航空明确禁止穿“贴身的莱卡/氨纶上衣、裤子和裙子”，还有“任何会露出腹部的服装”、“迷你裙”、“光脚”等。
Delta is far less specific, saying only this in its guide: “Just remember, Delta has a relaxed dress code for pass riders, but that doesn’t mean a sloppy appearance is acceptable. You should never wear unclean, revealing or lewd garments, or swimwear or sleepwear on a flight.”
达美航空的要求相对不那么明确，只在规章中表示：“请记住，达美对通行证乘客的着装要求比较宽松，但那不意味我们可以接受邋遢的衣着。你永远不该在飞机上穿着不干净、暴露或太过撩人的服装，也不应穿泳衣或睡衣。”
In a statement, Delta said, “We ask our employees and their family and friends flying on pass privileges to use their best judgment when deciding what to wear on a flight.”
达美航空在一份声明中称，“我们要求享受通行证福利飞行的员工及其亲友在决定在航班上穿什么衣服时，要做出自己最佳的判断。”
American Airlines says in its employee travel guide, “In general, if attire is appropriate and in good taste for our revenue customers, then it is acceptable for us as well.”
美国航空的员工飞行准则中提到，“如果一种服装在我们的收益乘客看来是合适的、大方得体的，那对我们来说便是可以接受的。”
It goes on to specify that travelers are not to wear “torn, dirty or frayed clothing,” “clothing that is distracting or offensive to others” or “clothing that is vulgar or violates community standards of decency.”
该公司还具体说明了，乘客不应穿“破烂、肮脏或磨损的衣物”、“会让其他人心烦意乱或感到冒犯的服装”或“粗俗、有失体面的服装”。
It is up typically to gate agents to decide what is appropriate and what is not for those traveling on pass riders.
通行证乘客的着装哪些是合适的，哪些不合适，最后通常是由登机口检票员说了算。
“I have seen adults who have holes in jeans miss big international flights because the gate agent said, ‘Nope, you don’t meet our standards,’ which I thought was brutal,” said Mark Blacknell, 41, an attorney in Washington. Mr. Blacknell’s mother works for Delta, and he has taken advantage of numerous pass riders.
“我看见过穿破洞牛仔裤的成年人无法登上国际航班，因为检票乘务员说，‘不行，您不符合我们的着装标准，’我觉得这太苛刻了，”41岁的华盛顿律师马克·布莱克内尔(Mark Blacknell)说。布莱克内尔的母亲为达美航空工作，他享受过许多次通行证乘客福利。
But there is a reason for the strictness of United’s guidelines, a company spokesman said. They exist to take the decision out of the gate agent’s hands.
但联合航空的一名发言人表示，公司制定严格的着装准则是有理由的。之所以有这些准则，是为了避免让登机口检票员自行决定。
“We have guidelines like this to help our gate agents, because we don’t want to put them in this position, to have to be making judgment calls about attire,” said the spokesman, Jonathan Guerin. “That’s what the policy is about. It’s designed to help our employees do their jobs and be efficient and get people on board.”
“我们制定这样的准则来帮助我们的登机口检票员，因为我们不想将他们置于必须对乘客的着装做出评判的位置，”发言人乔纳森·格林(Jonathan Guerin)说。“这就是这项政策的目的，就是为了帮我们的员工做好自己的工作，提高效率，让人们登机。”
What seemed to be lost in the social media fury was that commercial passengers are not held to the same standard, as Delta mentioned on Twitter, ribbing its competitor.
就像达美航空在Twitter上取笑自己的竞争对手时提到的，社交媒体上的抗议之声似乎没有提到商务乘客不需要遵守这些规定。
But whether this controversy will bring about a change by United remains to be seen.
但这个争议事件是否会让联合航空有所改变，还有待观察。
“We regularly review our guidelines,” Mr. Guerin said.
“我们经常对自己的准则进行重新审视，”格林说。