Don’t judge Art Basel Miami Beach by what you read about it.
不要根据你读到的新闻来评判迈阿密海滩巴塞尔艺术展(Art Basel Miami Beach)。
The fair gets a lot of news media attention that, at its best, shines a light on emerging talent and, at its worst, airs intra-art-world squabbles.
这场艺术展得到了新闻媒体的广泛关注，那些报道最好的一点是介绍了崭露头角的艺术人才，最糟糕的一点是传播了艺术界内部的纷争。
What gets lost, though, is what a treat it is for the general public. Never mind the outrageous price the latest Jeff Koons garnered there, Art Basel gave people a chance to see it up close. Few other public events display a dizzying variety of artwork, from a 1918 Picasso to a not-yet-dried painting by an up-and-coming Miami artist.
不过，那些报道没有提到的一点是，巴塞尔艺术展对公众来说是多么难得的机会。不要管杰夫·昆斯(Jeff Koons)的最新作品在巴塞尔艺术展上卖到了多高的天价，重要的是，它给人们提供了一个能够近距离观看艺术品的机会。几乎没有其他哪个公共活动能展示如此丰富多样的艺术作品，从毕加索(Picasso)1918年的作品到一位很有前途的迈阿密艺术家新出炉的画作。
Just ask Brett Sokol, the arts editor at the Miami-based magazine Ocean Drive and a frequent contributor to The New York Times.
只要问问迈阿密杂志《Ocean Drive》的艺术编辑、经常为《纽约时报》供稿的布雷特·索科尔(Brett Sokol)，你就知道了。
“For all of the spectacle and the insane hype and the teeth gnashing in the art world about it,” he said of Art Basel, “it is still an amazing opportunity to see incredible art all under one roof.”
他在谈到巴塞尔艺术展时说：“尽管它场面恢弘，大肆宣传，在艺术界也遭到愤恨，但它仍是一个难得的机会，能让你在同一个屋檐下看到各种不可思议的艺术品。
While the fair’s invitation-only opening night on Wednesday is all about art dealing, he said, the fair takes on a different vibe when it opens to the public Thursday through Sunday (tickets are $47; $30 for students and seniors; free for under 16).
他说，虽然周三（12月2日）晚上的开幕之夜只接待受邀人，当晚完全是进行艺术交易，但是从周四至周日的公众开放日将完全是另一幅景象（票价47美元，学生和老人30美元，16岁以下免费）。
“It’s like going to a museum,” he said. Anyone can walk up and buy a ticket, there is no V.I.P. area and there are even a few families.
他说：“这就像参观博物馆。”任何人都能购票，没有贵宾区，甚至有的是一家老小一起参观。
“That can be fun, getting to see this huge, diverse group of people, watching kids react to certain works of art,” he said. “You think, ‘What does this 7-year-old see that I don’t? Am I that jaded?’”
他说：“看着这么多各种各样的人来参观很有趣。看到孩子们对某些艺术品的反应，你会想：‘这个7岁小孩是不是看出了什么我没看透的东西？我是不是太迟钝了？”
Considering the enormous size of the fair — 267 galleries exhibit their works — and the weekend crowds, Mr. Sokol’s first recommendation is simple: Take one of the free maps outside the convention center before entering and decide ahead of time which galleries most interest you.
考虑到展会规模的庞大——共有267家画廊展示自己的作品——以及周末参观人群的拥挤，索科尔的第一条建议很简单：进去之前，在会展中心外面拿一张免费地图，提前想好哪些画廊最吸引你。
“There is so much artwork, it can be disorienting,” he said.
他说：“艺术品太多了，你可能会不知所措。”
This year is noteworthy for the significant number of galleries featuring female artists, like the Mary Boone Gallery, which will exhibit works by Judith Bernstein, Sarah Charlesworth and Nancy Dwyer.
今年的一个特别之处在于很多画廊主要展示女性艺术家的作品，比如玛丽·布恩画廊(Mary Boone Gallery)，它将展示朱迪思·伯恩斯坦(Judith Bernstein)、萨拉·查尔斯沃思(Sarah Charlesworth)和南希·德怀尔(Nancy Dwyer)的作品。
A perennial favorite of Mr. Sokol’s is the Miami-based Fredric Snitzer Gallery, which this year is showing a new painting by Hernan Bas and a classic by Carlos Alfonzo, a Cuban-born artist who died in 1991 from an illness related to AIDS.
索科尔一直钟爱迈阿密的弗雷德里克·斯奈策画廊(Fredric Snitzer Gallery)。今年，该画廊将展示埃尔南·巴斯(Hernan Bas)新创作的一幅油画以及卡洛斯·阿方索(Carlos Alfonzo)的经典作品。阿方索是古巴出生的艺术家，1991年因艾滋病引发的疾病去世。
“A lot of pain and melancholy,” Mr. Sokol said of Mr. Alfonzo’s work. “It can be incredibly moving, but that’s why people see art, to have those transcendent experiences.”
索科尔谈到阿方索的作品时说：“里面有很多痛苦和悲伤。特别感人，但那正是人们观赏艺术品的原因——获得超越体验。”
After a day at Art Basel, take time to check out satellite fairs like Pulse, which opens Dec. 1, and Nada, which starts Dec. 3.
在巴塞尔艺术展参观一天之后，花点时间去看看附属的几个展览，比如12月1日开幕的Pulse展和12月3日开幕的Nada展。
Nada can be uneven, Mr. Sokol said: “A mixture of ‘my kid could do that’ to gorgeous works of art.”
Nada展的艺术品水平参差不齐。索科尔说：“有的作品你可能会说‘我的孩子都会画’，也有些作品非常精彩。”
Pulse focuses largely on emerging artists, Mr. Sokol said, “so if you do get enticed, the price points are a lot lower.”
Pulse展侧重新兴艺术家。索科尔说：“所以如果你确实喜欢，也买得起，因为这里的价位要低得多。”
This year, Pulse will include artists represented by Emerson Dorsch, one of several Miami-based galleries that are part of the burgeoning art scene in the city’s Little Haiti neighborhood.
今年，Pulse展将包括爱默生·多施画廊(Emerson Dorsch)代理的几位艺术家的作品。该画廊是迈阿密新兴的小海地艺术区(Little Haiti neighborhood)的几家画廊之一。
Be sure to cross Biscayne Bay to explore Little Haiti and the once-industrial Wynwood neighborhood to its south. Miami’s art districts have expanded in recent years, said Mr. Sokol, thanks in part to Art Basel’s influence.
你一定要穿过比斯坎湾(Biscayne Bay)，去看看小海地以及它南侧的温伍德艺术社区（Wynwood，由工业区改造而成）。索科尔说，近些年，部分得益于巴塞尔艺术展的影响力，迈阿密的艺术社区不断扩大。
“There has always been an incredible wealth of artistic talent in Miami, but there had never been an art market,” he said. Art Basel “created a way for artists to actually make a living.”
他说：“迈阿密一直拥有大量艺术人才，但是艺术市场一直不发达”，巴塞尔艺术展“真的给艺术家们开辟了一条谋生的道路”。
After art viewing and after-parties, a late-night snack is in order during Art Basel. And for that Mr. Sokol suggests a Miami Beach institution: La Sandwicherie, which is open to 6 a.m. on the weekends.
在观赏完艺术品、参加完余兴派对之后，你可以品尝很多餐馆专为巴塞尔艺术展而准备的深夜小吃。索科尔推荐的是迈阿密海滩的一家店：La Sandwicherie，它在周末一直营业到凌晨6点。
“It’s everybody who is up at 2 a.m. and hungry: a mix of locals, club people, older folks,” he said. “It’s a whole microcosm of the bizarre petri dish that is South Beach.”
他说：“那里全是熬到凌晨2点觉得肚子饿的人：当地人、去夜店玩的人，以及年纪大些的人。它是迈阿密南海滩奇怪的人口构成的缩影。”