One thing that’s definitely gotten better over time: not as much ritualistic human sacrifice.
在现代，有一件事无疑要比古代好：活人祭祀现象远没有那么多。
But a new study published Monday in Nature revisits the ancient practice to look for fresh insights. The scientists found that, for better or worse (and only worse for the victims, of course), human sacrifice helped create the hierarchies present in many modern societies.
但是本周一在《自然》杂志上发表的论文试图通过回顾这种古代的仪式来取得新的发现。科学家们发现，不论是好是坏，活人祭祀帮助构建了许多现代社会中存在的阶层现象（当然对于活人祭祀的祭品而言，只有坏处）。
The scientists from the University of Auckland and Victoria University of Wellington, both in New Zealand, found that ritual sacrifice may have spurred the transition of small, egalitarian societies to large, stratified ones. The study examined 93 traditional Austronesian cultures (speakers of a family of languages in parts of Africa, Asia and Oceania).
来自新西兰的奥克兰大学以及惠灵顿维多利亚大学的科学家们发现，祭祀行为有可能刺激了人类社会由小规模、平等状态向大规模，阶层分明状态进化。这项研究总共分析了93种传统的南岛文明（指大洋洲、东南亚和部分非洲以南岛语系为语言的族群）。
They looked at whether and how these cultures used ritual sacrifice — 40 of them practiced it — and how it affected social organization. The cultures were then divided into groups: egalitarian, moderately stratified and highly stratified. They were defined by the presence or absence of social hierarchy, and the rate of social mobility.
这些族群中有40个使用了活人祭祀。他们研究这些族群是否使用活人祭祀、如何使用活人祭祀以及祭祀行为是如何影响社会组织的。然后科学家们对这些文明进行分组：平等的、阶层轻度分化的和等级森严的。这些分组是依据族群中社会等级的存在与否以及社会流动性的强弱决定的。
The scientists found, perhaps not surprisingly, that human sacrifice contributed to creating and preserving social hierarchies, and that it increased the chances that societies would have more fixed strata, which were inherited positions, and less mobility. It also generally helped prevent loss of social divisions once they existed.
科学家们发现，活人祭祀有助于制造和维系社会阶级，并且这也提高了社会拥有更多通过继承传承下来的固定阶层的可能，同时社会流动性也减少。这类习俗的出现大体上也巩固了已有的社会分化。
Despite its barbaric nature, human sacrifice was a useful tool for rulers, elites, and religious figures to maintain or cement their power, or even to proclaim their own divinity.
虽然活人祭祀性质野蛮，但其对于统治者、精英和宗教人物而言大体上也是一种有用的工具，这可以帮助他们保持或是巩固自身的权力，甚至宣称自己的地位是神授的。
In these cultures, human sacrifice — usually of slaves or others with low status — was sometimes called for in response to several events, including the breaking of taboos or customs, the funerals of important people, or the consecration of a new house or boat, according to the authors.
根据论文作者的描述，在这些族群中，奴隶或是地位低下的人在若干重要场合被用于祭祀——包括打破以往的习俗和禁忌，重要人物的葬礼或是新房屋和船只的建成。
The authors list some run-of-the-mill techniques for human sacrifice, but others they mention are more, let’s say, specific: being crushed under a newly built canoe, or being rolled off the roof of a house and then decapitated.
作者们列举了一些活人祭祀的通常手段，但他们提及的其它手段则不能不说是骇人听闻：被新造的独木舟碾碎，或是被从新落成的房屋顶上滚下来然后被斩首。
Human sacrifice was practiced at some point in most parts of the world, but because most major religions forbid the custom, it hasn’t lasted into modern times.
活人祭祀在世界上的绝大多数地区历史上都存在过，但因为大多数主要宗教都禁止了这项习俗，活人祭祀没有留存到现代社会。
Even so, rumors of human sacrifice or ritual murders sometimes circulate. And popular culture helps fan the flames, too. “Game of Thrones” Season 6, anyone?
即使是这样，活人祭祀或是仪式性谋杀的流言有时仍会传播。并且大众文化有时也起到火上浇油的作用。正如《权力的游戏》第六季一样，不是吗？