NAIROBI, Kenya — When a Chinese clothing company swooped in and offered to sponsor Kenya's famed runners, Nike panicked, Kenyan officials say.
肯尼亚内罗毕——肯尼亚官员说，当一家中国服装公司突然表示，可以为肯尼亚著名的赛跑运动员提供赞助时，耐克公司(Nike)急了。
“Can we talk about the situation?” a Nike executive wrote to a Kenyan official after hearing the news that the Kenyans wanted to end their deal with Nike. “You and I go back a long way.”
“我们能不能谈谈这个情况？”一名耐克高管在听到肯尼亚人想结束与公司的合同后，给该国官员去信说。“咱们的关系可不是一时两时了。”
What followed — according to email exchanges, letters, bank records and invoices, provided by a former employee of Kenya's athletics federation — has led to a major scandal in Kenya, a country in the midst of its biggest war against corruption in years.
据肯尼亚田径协会的一名前雇员提供的电子邮件对话记录、信件、银行记录及费用清单，接下来的事已经发展成为肯尼亚的一大丑闻，这个国家正在进行多年来最大规模的一次反腐败行动。
In a contract signed several years ago, Nike agreed to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in honorariums and a one-time $500,000 “commitment bonus,” which the former employee called a bribe.
在几年前签的合同中，耐克同意支付数十万美元的专家酬谢金、以及一笔50万美元的一次性“承诺奖金”，该前雇员称这是贿赂金。
The money was supposed to be used to help train and support poor Kenyan athletes who dream of running their way out of poverty.
这笔钱本应用于培训和支持贫困的肯尼亚选手，帮他们实现通过赛跑摆脱贫困的梦想。
Instead, it was immediately sucked out of the federation's bank account by a handful of Kenyan officials and kept off the books.
现在却被几名肯尼亚官员从联合会的银行账户立刻抽走，并没有记录到账上。
Nike has denied any wrongdoing, saying in a statement that its payments were intended to help athletes, and it does not appear to be under investigation by U.S. authorities.
耐克否认有任何不法行为，公司在一份声明中说，这笔支付款的目的是为了帮助运动员，公司看来也没有受到美国当局的调查。
But Kenyan authorities are suspicious. They have opened an extensive investigation, and all three Kenyan athletics officials accused of taking money from Nike have been suspended. Investigators with Kenya's Directorate of Criminal Investigations said they had asked Nike repeatedly to provide more information. So far, they say, Nike has refused.
但肯尼亚当局觉得此事可疑。他们已经开始了一个大范围的调查，所有三名被指控收受耐克贿赂的肯尼亚田径官员都已停职。肯尼亚刑事调查部门(Directorate of Criminal Investigations)的调查人员说，他们已多次要求耐克提供更多的信息。他们说，耐克到目前为止一直拒绝提供。
“Why was such a huge sum of money paid as commitment?” said one of the detectives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. “It's only Nike who can tell us.”
“为什么这么一大笔钱是以承诺费的形式支付的？”其中一名调查人员问道，因为没有得到公开发表评论的授权，他要求在本文中匿名。“这只有耐克才能告诉我们。”
John Githongo, one of Kenya's leading voices against corruption, said the U.S. government should pick up this case and “run with it.”
在肯尼亚积极倡导反腐败的约翰·吉松戈(John Githongo)表示，美国政府应该调查这件事，而且要“一查到底”。
For more than 20 years, Nike Inc. has been paying the Kenyan national runners' association millions of dollars in exchange for the Kenyans wearing Nike's signature swoosh, superb advertising in the running world.
二十多年来，耐克公司向肯尼亚的国家长跑运动员协会提供了数百万美元，以此换取让肯尼亚运动员穿着有耐克标志的服装和鞋，成为在长跑界的极佳广告。
Kenyan athletes were so outraged when they learned in November that hundreds of thousands of dollars from Nike had been stolen by their bigwigs that they staged a protest at their headquarters in Nairobi, with elite athletes camped out in the grass and holding up signs that read “blood sucers.” (Some of the runners never finished school.)
去年11月，在得知来自耐克的几十万美元被协会要人盗用之后，愤怒的肯尼亚运动员在内罗毕的协会总部外举行了一场抗议，一些顶尖运动员在草地上安营扎寨，还举着带有拼写错误的“吸血鬼”字样的牌子。（有些运动员未曾完成中小学学业。）
Now, one question the Kenyan detectives are trying to answer is whether Nike intentionally made it easy for the officials to pocket the money.
如今，肯尼亚调查人员试图回答的一个问题是，耐克是否故意为官员把钱装进自己的口袋提供了方便。
U.S. diplomats in Nairobi, Kenya's capital, said that the U.S. government would be willing to investigate any credible allegations of corruption by U.S. companies, but that they had no specific knowledge of the Nike deal beyond what had been reported in the Kenyan and international press.
在肯尼亚首都内罗毕的美国外交官说，美国政府愿意就任何对美国公司腐败的可信指控进行调查，但他们目前掌握的情况仅限于肯尼亚和国际新闻报道的有关耐克合同的具体细节。
The allegations go back to 2009, when Kenyan officials, according to the email chain, accused Nike of treating Kenya as a “dumping ground” for substandard Nike clothing.
这些指控回溯到2009年，据一连串的电子邮件显示，当时肯尼亚官员指责耐克将肯尼亚作为处理不合格耐克服装的“垃圾倾倒场”。
But those complaints may have been a ruse by Kenyan officials to get out of the Nike contract so they could receive a bribe from another company, said a member of the executive board of Kenya's track and field federation, known as Athletics Kenya.
但是，名为“田径肯尼亚”(Athletics Kenya)的肯尼亚田径联合会的一名执行董事说，这些抱怨可能是肯尼亚官员与耐克解除合同的脱身之计，让他们能够从另一家公司接受贿赂，。
Soon after complaining to Nike, officials at Kenya's running federation struck a new sponsorship deal with the Li-Ning Co., a Chinese sports empire founded by a famous gymnast, Li Ning. A marketing agent, working as a middleman between the Chinese company and the Kenyan federation, then sent nearly $200,000 to Athletics Kenya, money that a top official quickly withdrew.
在向耐克投诉后不久，肯尼亚长跑联合会的官员与李宁有限公司达成了新的赞助协议，这是一家由著名体操运动员李宁创立的中国体育产品巨头。一位在这家中国公司和肯尼亚联合会之间担任中间人的营销代理，在签约后支付给田径肯尼亚近20万美元，联合会的一位高级官员很快把这笔钱取走了。
The sports-marketing agent who made the payment, Papa Massata Diack, was recently banned for life by the International Association of Athletics Federations, a global governing body for track and field. Both he and his father, Lamine Diack, a former head of the international athletics association, are under investigation by French authorities in connection with several allegations, including blackmail and bribery.
支付了这笔钱的上述体育营销代理是帕帕·马萨塔·迪亚克(Papa Massata Diack)，他最近已被全球田径管理机构国际田径协会联盟终身取消资格。法国当局正在调查他和他的父亲、曾经担任国际田径协会负责人的拉明·迪亚克(Lamine Diack)，他们与多项指控有关，包括勒索和贿赂。
The Kenyan officials even began talking about designing new Li-Ning uniforms, but they soon learned that shaking off the Nike sponsorship deal was harder than they thought.
肯尼亚官员甚至已开始讨论设计新的李宁制服的事情，但他们很快了解到，摆脱耐克的赞助合同比他们认为的要难。
After they received a letter from a Nike lawyer saying there were no legal grounds to terminate the contract, the Kenyan officials abruptly changed course. They negotiated a new contract in which Nike agreed to pay Athletics Kenya an annual sponsorship fee of $1.3 million to $1.5 million — plus $100,000 honorariums each year and a one-time $500,000 “commitment bonus.”
耐克公司的律师发函称，终止合同是缺乏法律依据的，肯尼亚官员收到信后突然改变口风。双方洽谈了一份新合同，耐克公司同意每年向田径肯尼亚支付130万到150万美元的赞助费——外加每年10万美元的酬金和一次性50万美元的“签约奖金”。
“Whenever I see the words `commitment fees,' `commitment bonuses,' `access fees,' `access bonuses,' that for me raises a red flag,” said Githongo, a consultant who once headed an anti-corruption unit within the Kenyan government but quit — and fled the country for several years — after death threats. “It's language used to dress up bribes traditionally.”
“每当我看到‘签约费’、‘签约奖金’、‘接续费’、‘接续奖金’这样的词，就会警觉起来，这些历来都是贿赂的婉转说法。”顾问吉松戈说。他曾是肯尼亚政府反腐败机构负责人，在收到死亡威胁后辞了职，逃离该国数年之久。
Nike executives refused to discuss the contract, issuing a short statement that the money paid to Athletics Kenya was supposed to support the athletes. It said that Nike conducted business with integrity and that “we are cooperating with the local authorities in their investigation,” a point the Kenyan detectives dispute.
耐克高管拒绝讨论这份合同，并发布了一份简短声明，称支付给田径肯尼亚的钱应该是用来帮助运动员的。声明说，耐克公司诚信经营，“正在配合地方当局的调查工作”，但肯尼亚的调查人员说不是这么回事。
Several analysts said Nike could not afford to lose the Kenyans. Running is integral to Nike's brand — Nike's founders made some of their first running shoe treads on waffle irons in the 1970s. And Kenyans are integral to running.
一些分析师说，如果失去肯尼亚的合同，耐克会大伤元气。公司创始人在1970年代用华夫饼铛制作了最早跑鞋鞋底——跑步是耐克品牌不可或缺的一部分。而肯尼亚人又是跑步运动不可或缺的。
In the documents, Nike provided detailed instructions on how the $100,000 yearly honorarium was to be used (to cover travel costs and phone bills, among other things). No details were provided for the commitment bonus, though, even after the former employee, who worked as an administrative assistant and in other jobs at Athletics Kenya for more than 10 years, wrote to a Nike executive asking him.
在文件中，耐克提供了每年10万美元酬金如何使用的详细说明（支付旅费和电话费等等）。但对签约奖金却没有提供任何细节，即使那名在田径肯尼亚担任行政助理和其他职务10多年的前雇员，在写信询问耐克高管之后也仍未澄清。
In a sworn statement provided to Kenyan investigators, the former assistant said the $500,000 commitment bonus was “bribe money from Nike” so that the top officials could pay back the $200,000 from the scuttled deal with the Chinese company and then make even more by agreeing to sign up again with Nike. The former administrative assistant requested that his name not be revealed, saying it was extremely dangerous to expose high-level corruption in Kenya — a sentiment shared by others.
在向肯尼亚调查人员提供的宣誓声明中，这名前助理说，50万美元的签约奖金是“耐克的贿赂款”，高级官员同意与耐克续约，不仅能偿还与中国公司交易泡汤牵扯的20万美元，还能赚更多的钱。这位前行政助理不愿具名，他说，揭露肯尼亚高层腐败问题极其危险——其他人也有相同的看法。
“Put that away! You could get killed for that!” exclaimed a member of Athletics Kenya's board, his eyes widening when a reporter pulled out the amended contract from Nike listing the $500,000 commitment bonus during an interview at a quiet Nairobi restaurant.
“赶紧收起来！这东西能要了你的命！”田径肯尼亚的一名董事惊呼。当时他正在内罗毕一家安静的餐厅接受采访，当记者拿出那份修改后列有50万美元签约奖金的耐克合同时，他瞪大了眼睛。
The board member said he, too, had received death threats for speaking out about corruption and asked that his name not be used.
这名董事表示，他也收到了死亡威胁，揭露腐败就会送命。他要求不具名。
Analysts said this case was especially tricky because it did not appear to fall under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.S. law that covers crimes involving U.S. companies and foreign government officials. The Kenyan running association, while it receives some government money, is not a Kenyan government agency. “The world of sports has evolved in a governance hole,” said Roger Pielke Jr., a political scientist at the University of Colorado.
分析人士表示，本案尤为棘手，因为美国虽然有一部涉及美国公司和外国政府官员犯罪的《反海外腐败法》(Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)，但本案却似乎不属于它的管辖范围。田径肯尼亚虽然收过政府的一些钱，却不是肯尼亚的政府机构。“体育世界是在一个治理真空中演化的，”科罗拉多大学(University of Colorado)政治学家小罗杰·皮尔克(Roger Pielke Jr.)说。
He noted that sports federations, like Athletics Kenya and FIFA, international soccer's governing body, which is embroiled in its own corruption saga, often fell between the cracks of the rules that governed businesses, public agencies and traditional nonprofit organizations, even though sports federations have qualities of all three.
他指出，像田径肯尼亚和国际足联(FIFA)这样的体育联合会，尽管拥有企业、公共机构和传统非营利组织的特点，却往往不受这三者的治理规则的管辖。作为国际足球管理机构的国际足联已经深陷腐败丑闻。
Pielke said bribery, embezzlement and “unsavory, improper business practices” were common.
皮尔克说，贿赂、挪用公款和“令人讨厌的不正当商业行为”很常见。
“I hear it all the time from sporting officials,” he said. “`To survive in this world, these are the rules of the game.”'
“我经常从体育官员那里听说这些事，”他说。“为了在这个世界上生存，这些就是游戏规则。”