When campaigning for the Philippine presidency last spring, Rodrigo Duterte promised to kill so many criminals that “fish will grow fat” in Manila Bay from feasting on their corpses.
在今年春天的菲律宾总统竞选期间，罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)曾承诺处决大批罪犯，数量多到能让马尼拉湾的鱼因食用这些尸体而“膘肥体壮”。
Since taking office June 30, Duterte appears to be making every effort to meet that grisly goal. More than 1,800 people have been killed by the police and vigilantes since then, and the wave of killings shows no sign of subsiding.
自6月30日上任以来，杜特地似乎在尽一切努力实现那个恐怖的目标。从那时算起，有超过1800人死于警方和治安队员之手，而且这股风潮没有任何减弱的迹象。
Many of the victims appeared to be innocent by any definition, and none had been proved guilty in a court of law. But the crackdown has struck a chord with the public, and Duterte’s popularity has been soaring.
不管从哪个角度看，许多受害者似乎都是无辜的，没有一个人在法庭上被证明有罪。但这项打击行动引起了公众的共鸣，杜特地的受欢迎程度一直在高涨。
What drives this explosion of extrajudicial violence — which, far from unique, bears striking parallels to previous waves of killings in Colombia, Mexico, Guatemala, Thailand and elsewhere?
是什么在激发这种法外暴力？无独有偶，这类杀戮与哥伦比亚、墨西哥、危地马拉、泰国和其他一些地方此前出现的杀戮潮有着惊人的相似之处。
It would be tempting to reduce this to a simple story of good versus evil, with the villain — whether that means enforcers like Duterte or the criminal elements they claim to be expunging — solely responsible.
我们很容易将它归为简单的善恶之争，只让其中的恶人背负责任。不管这个恶人是指像杜特地这样的执法者，还是他们声称在消除的犯罪分子。
But social scientists who study extrajudicial killings say the real story is more complicated, and more tragic. It is often the affected communities themselves that unwittingly help create the circumstances for this violence.
但研究法外杀戮的社会科学专家表示，真实的情况要更复杂，也更有悲剧性。往往是受害社群自身不自觉地为这种暴力创造了条件。
It tends to begin, the research suggests, with a weak state and a population desperate for security. Short-term incentives push everyone to bad decisions that culminate in violence that, once it has reached a level as bloody as that in the Philippines, can be nearly impossible to stop.
研究人员表示，它通常始于一个软弱的政权和一群极其渴望安全感的民众。短期利益的刺激促使所有人做出糟糕的决策，最终导致这样的暴力行为发生，而一旦它达到菲律宾事件那样的血腥程度，就几乎不可能再被阻止。
The Spark
引子
It might seem that the Philippines’ trouble began when it elected Duterte, a brash provincial politician who has for decades embraced extrajudicial killings as a legitimate method of crime control.
表面看来，菲律宾的麻烦是在选出杜特地当总统之后开始出现的。几十年来，这位自大的省级政客一直支持将法外杀戮当作控制犯罪的合理手段。
But the true roots of the problem can be traced to the administration of Duterte’s predecessor, Benigno Aquino III. That is because, experts say, the true cause of this kind of extrajudicial violence is the public’s loss of confidence in state institutions and its turning instead to more immediate forms of punishment and control.
但这个问题真正的根源，可以追溯至杜特地的前任贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno Aquino III)统治期间。专家表示，这是因为这类法外暴力行为背后真正的原因，在于公众对国家机构丧失信心，转而依靠更直接的惩罚和控制手段。
Aquino, elected in 2010 on promises to support the rule of law and human rights, failed to fix the Philippines’ corrupt and ineffective justice system. His administration also faced a series of security-related scandals, including a hostage crisis in Manila in 2010.
在2010年，阿基诺以承诺支持法治和人权而当选总统，但他没能解决菲律宾司法体系腐败无效的问题。他领导的政府也遭遇了一系列与安全有关的丑闻，包括2010年的马尼拉人质危机。
And, perhaps most critical, Aquino was perceived as lazy and soft, unwilling to take the necessary steps to solve the country’s problems.
或许最关键的是，阿基诺被看作既懒惰又软弱，不愿采取必要的措施来解决这个国家问题的领导人。
Frustration with the government’s inability to provide basic security led to rising public demand for new leaders who would take more decisive action to provide security.
对政府无力提供基本安全保障的不满，增强了民众对新领导层的需求，而该新领导层须选择采取更果断的行动，提供安全保障。
“The fact is that the judicial system, the court system, is broken in the Philippines,” said Phelim Kine, a deputy director of the Asia Division at Human Rights Watch.
“事实上，菲律宾的司法制度、法院系统已经崩溃了，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)亚洲分部副主任林海(Phelim Kine)表示。
Powerful people, Kine said, are often able to evade justice entirely. “When you factor in elements of corruption, and perceptions that people can buy themselves protection from the police or buy themselves out of trouble,” he said, “this adds up to a lot of frustration among Filipinos who sense that government and the judicial system is part of the problem, not the solution.”
林海称，有权有势的人常常可以完全逃脱法律的制裁。“考虑到腐败，以及人们可以花钱买通警察做保护伞或者花钱免灾的观念等因素，”他说，“把政府和司法制度视为问题的组成部分而非解决方案的菲律宾人只会愈发失望。”
The Demand
需求
When people begin to see the justice system as thoroughly corrupt and broken, they feel unprotected from crime. That sense of threat makes them willing to support vigilante violence, which feels like the best option for restoring order and protecting their personal safety.
当人们开始认为司法制度腐败透顶、漏洞百出的时候，他们会觉得没人保护自己，免受犯罪行为的伤害。这种面临威胁之感让他们乐于支持自发的治安暴力行为，他们觉得这种暴力是恢复秩序、保护其人身安全的最佳选择。
Gema Santamaria, a professor at the Mexico Autonomous Institute of Technology in Mexico City who studies lynchings and other forms of vigilante killings, and José Miguel Cruz, research director at Florida International University’s Latin American and Caribbean Center, used survey data from across Latin America to test what leads people to support extrajudicial violence.
在墨西哥城的墨西哥科技自治学院(Mexico Autonomous Institute of Technology)研究私刑等治安杀戮行为的格玛·萨纳塔丽亚教授(Gema Sanataria)，以及佛罗里达国际大学(Florida International University)拉丁美洲和加勒比海地区中心的研究主管何塞·米格尔·克鲁兹(José Miguel Cruz)，曾利用拉美各地的调查数据，来探寻是什么导致人们支持法外暴力行为。
The data told a very similar story across all of the countries in their sample. People who didn’t have faith in their country’s institutions were more likely to say vigilante violence was justified. By contrast, in states with stronger institutions, people were more likely to reject extrajudicial violence.
基于来自各个样本国家的数据，可以得出极为相似的结论。对本国司法机构没有信心的人，更有可能认为自发的治安暴力行为是正当的。相比之下，在那些司法机构更为强健的国家里，人们更有可能排斥法外暴力。
People turn to vigilante violence as a replacement for the formal justice system, Santamaria said. That can take multiple forms — lynch mobs in Mexico, for instance, or paramilitary “self-defense” forces in Colombia — but the core impulse is the same.
圣玛丽亚说，人们诉诸民间治安暴力来代替正式的司法系统。它们可能有多种形式——比如，墨西哥的私刑暴徒或哥伦比亚的准军事“自卫”武装——不过，核心动力是一样的。
“When you have a system that doesn’t deliver, you are creating, over a period of time, a certain culture of punishment,” she said. “Regardless of what the police are going to do, you want justice, and it will be rough justice.”
“如果国家的司法体系不能提供保障，那么久而久之，就会产生某种惩罚文化，”她说，“不管警察会做什么，你想要正义，而那将是暴力的正义。”
Surprisingly, that includes increased support for the use of harsh extralegal tactics by the police themselves. “This seems counterintuitive,” Santamaria said. “If you don’t trust the police to prosecute criminals, why would you trust them with bending the law?”
令人意外的是，这种诉求包括越来越支持警方动用法律之外的严厉手段。“这似乎很反常识，”圣玛丽亚说，“如果你不相信警察会法办罪犯，那么你为什么信任他们，任他们扭曲法律？”
But to people desperate for security, she said, the unmediated punishment of police violence seems far more effective than waiting for a corrupt system to take action.
她说，对迫切渴望安全的人们来说，警察暴力所施加的直接惩罚，似乎比等待腐败的体制去采取行动要有效的多。
And so, over time, frustration with state institutions, coupled with fear of crime and insecurity, leads to demand for authoritarian violence — even if that means empowering the same corrupt, flawed institutions that failed to provide security in the first place.
因此，久而久之，人们对国家机制的失望以及对犯罪和不安全的恐惧，会导致他们要求威权主义暴力——尽管意味着要赋予那些原本未能提供安全保证的腐败的、有缺陷的机制更多权力。
Once the government makes it clear that no one will face legal repercussions for extrajudicial killings, Kine of Human Rights Watch said, “then anybody with a gun and a grudge has free license to go and victimize people without worrying about the consequences.”
人权观察组织的林海说，一旦政府表明，没有人会因为法外处决承担法律后果，“那么任何心存怨恨又有枪的人就获得了伤害他人的许可，不必担心后果”。
That fuels public demand for more extralegal violence to quell the problem. Eventually, the situation spirals out of control.
这就会激发公众要求采取更多法外暴力，以平息这个问题。最终，情况会发展至失控。
Kine pointed to the Philippine city of Tagum on the island of Mindanao. There, the city government encouraged off-duty police officers and collaborators to murder petty criminals, including street children, in the name of being tough on crime.
林海提到菲律宾棉兰老岛的塔古姆市。那里的市政府鼓励不当班的警察及其协作者以严厉打击犯罪的名义杀害轻罪歹徒，包括街头儿童。
Once its ability to operate with impunity was established, Kine said, that death squad began engaging in contract killings for money. People who opposed the death squad, including some police officers, were deemed enemies and often targeted. The city became more dangerous and lawless, with devastating results for ordinary citizens.
林海说，一旦他们可以如此行动而不受惩罚，这个杀戮队就开始为金钱替别人杀人。反对他们的人，包括部分警察，会被认为是敌人，经常成为谋杀目标。这座城市变得更加危险、没有法纪，对普通市民造成毁灭性后果。
The real problem, Santamaria said, is not just the violence. Rather, it is the way it alters the rules of society itself: what is acceptable, and what is necessary to survive.
圣玛丽亚说，真正的问题不仅在于暴力。而在于它改变了社会规则：什么是能被接受的，什么是生存所必需的。
People whose relatives have been unjustly killed see violence as a legitimate way to right that wrong, Santamaria said. Once violence becomes an acceptable means for settling disputes and exerting power, it is difficult for people to trust any other system, she added.
圣玛丽亚说，亲人被不公正杀害的人视暴力为实现正义的正当途径。她补充说，一旦暴力成为解决纠纷、施展力量的可接受方式，人们就很难信任其他任何体制了。
States, locked in that escalating cycle, struggle to re-establish order. A culture of vengeful punishment takes hold, crowding out the rule of law. State officials have little standing to demand that people follow the rule of law when the state itself has been encouraging lawless violence.
陷入这种愈演愈烈的恶性循环的国家很难重建秩序。复仇文化扎根，法治遭到排挤。当国家本身鼓励非法暴力时，国家官员也就丧失了要求民众遵守法治的资格。
In Guatemala, decades of extrajudicial violence have left thousands dead, opened space for ruthless street gangs and sent tens of thousands of child refugees north in search of safety.
在危地马拉，数十年的法外暴力导致成千上万人丧生，残暴的街头匪帮大行其道，数万名儿童难民前往北方寻求安全。
In Colombia, vigilante “self-defense” groups grew, in the 1970s and ‘80s, into large paramilitary organizations. They joined with state-supported counterinsurgency groups and became major players in the country’s drug trade and a party to its civil war, in which they were known for particularly gruesome attacks on civilians they perceived as enemies.
在哥伦比亚，民间治安“自卫队”在20世纪七八十年代发展成庞大的准军事组织。他们加入国家支持的反叛乱组织，成为该国毒品交易的主要参与者，也是内战的一个参与者——他们对被认为是敌人的平民进行特别残酷的攻击，让他们出了名。
This is perhaps the most worrying lesson of the social scientists’ research: that it does not take evil to destroy a community’s peace and safety. Rather, ordinary human desire for security, coupled with weak institutions and desperate short-term thinking, can lead a country into an escalating disaster.
这可能是社会科学研究中最令人担忧的一课：要摧毁一个社区的和平和安全，并不需要借助邪恶。普通人对安全的渴望，加上薄弱的制度和绝望中只顾眼前的思维方式，会导致一个国家陷入不断恶化的灾难。