WHAT makes some men miserly and others generous? What motivated Bill Gates, for example, to make more than $28 billion in philanthropic gifts while many of his billionaire peers kept relatively tightfisted control over their personal fortunes?
是什么原因导致一些男人吝啬，另一些男人慷慨呢？比如，是什么动机驱使比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)捐出超过280亿美元（约合1718亿元人民币）的慈善礼物，而与他同属一个圈子的许多亿万富翁却相对小气地抓着手中的私人财富不放？
New evidence reveals a surprising answer. The mere presence of female family members — even infants — can be enough to nudge men in the generous direction.
新证据披露了一个令人惊讶的答案。仅仅是女性家庭成员——甚至包括女婴——的存在，就足以把男性推向慷慨的方向。
In a provocative new study, the researchers Michael Dahl, Cristian Dezso and David Gaddis Ross examined generosity and what inspires it in wealthy men. Rather than looking at large-scale charitable giving, they looked at why some male chief executives paid their employees more generously than others. The researchers tracked the wages that male chief executives at more than 10,000 Danish companies paid their employees over the course of a decade.
在一项挑战传统思维的新研究中，研究人员迈克尔·达尔(Michael Dahl)、克里斯蒂安·德诺(Cristian Dezso)和戴维·加迪斯·罗斯(David Gaddis Ross)探查了慷慨的行为、以及激发富有男性投入此类行为的原因。他们没有探查大规模的慈善捐助行为，而是观察了为什么某些男性首席执行官比同行对雇员更为慷慨。研究人员追踪了过去10年里，1万多家丹麦公司的男性首席执行官向雇员发放的薪酬。
Interestingly, the chief executives paid their employees less after becoming fathers. On average, after chief executives had a child, they paid about $100 less in annual compensation per employee. To be a good provider, the researchers write, it’s all too common for a male chief executive to claim “his firm’s resources for himself and his growing family, at the expense of his employees.”
有意思的是，在成为父亲之后，首席执行官们给雇员支付的薪酬减少了。平均而言，在首席执行官们有了一个子女之后，他们付给雇员的人均年薪约少了100美元。研究人员写道，为了做一个好的养家者，男性首席执行官“为自己和正在扩大的家庭声索公司资源，而让雇员付出代价”是相当常见的行为。
But there was a twist. When Professor Dahl’s team examined the data more closely, the changes in pay depended on the gender of the child that the chief executives fathered. They reduced wages after having a son, but not after having a daughter.
不过，事情也有复杂的一面。当达尔教授的团队更严密地查看数据时，他们发现，薪酬的变化取决于男性首席执行官们的子女的性别。在有儿子之后，他们减少了雇员工资，但在有女儿之后，他们却没这么干。
Daughters apparently soften fathers and evoke more caretaking tendencies. The speculation is that as we brush our daughters’ hair and take them to dance classes, we become gentler, more empathetic and more other-oriented.
女儿显然软化了父亲的心，激发了更多的关爱倾向。人们推测，当我们梳理着女儿的头发，把她们送到舞蹈班时，我们变得更加温柔，更能设身处地为他人着想，以他人的幸福为导向。
There are even studies showing that American legislators with daughters vote more liberally; this is also true of British male voters who have daughters, especially in terms of referendum and policy choices about reproductive rights. “A father takes on some of the preferences of his female offspring,” argue the researchers Andrew Oswald at the University of Warwick and Nattavudh Powdthavee, then at the University of York. For male chief executives, this daughter-driven empathy spike may account for more generous impulses toward employees that temper the temptation toward wage cuts.
甚至有研究显示，有女儿的美国议员在投票时更倾向于自由主义；有女儿的英国男性选民也有这种倾向，尤其是对于涉及生育权的公投及政策选择。华威大学(University of Warwick)研究员安德鲁·奥斯瓦尔德(Andrew Oswald)以及约克大学(University of York)研究员纳塔武·鲍德他威(Nattavudh Powdthavee)辩称，“一位父亲会因对女儿的钟爱而产生一些爱屋及乌的倾向”。对于男性首席执行官来说，女儿激发的为他人着想的火花，也许引发了他们更加慷慨地对待雇员的冲动，这种冲动抑制了削减工资的诱惑。
Is it possible that proximity to infant girls prompts greater generosity? Additional studies, in a variety of fields, suggest this is the case — and that it might extend beyond daughters. Consider, for example, the series of studies led by the psychologist Paul Van Lange at the Free University in Amsterdam. To figure out what motivates people to act generously, Professor Van Lange and three colleagues set up a game in which more than 600 people made choices about sharing resources with someone they didn’t know and would never meet again. The participants chose between these basic options:
接近女婴是否可能激发更强烈的慷慨行为？涉及多个领域的更多研究显示，情况确实如此——这种慷慨行为可能超出女儿的范畴。不妨以阿姆斯特丹自由大学(Free University)心理学家保罗·范兰格(Paul Van Lange)主持的一系列研究为例。为了找出是什么动机让人们更加慷慨，范兰格教授和三名同事安排了一个游戏，在游戏里，有600多人做出和他人分享资源的选择，他们不认识分享者，也不会和分享者再次见面。参与者在两类基本选项中做出选择：
(a) You get $25 and your partner gets $10.
(a) 你获得25美元，你的同伴获得10美元。
(b) You get $20 and your partner gets $30.
(b) 你获得20美元，你的同伴获得30美元。
The first option is the selfish one; you’re claiming most of the resources for yourself. The latter option is more generous as it involves sacrificing a small amount ($5) to increase your partner’s gains by a much larger amount ($20).
第一个选项是一个自私的选项；你为自己要更多资源。后一个选项更加慷慨，因为它涉及牺牲一小部分你的所得（5美元），来为你的同伴增加多得多的所得（20美元）。
The players expressed consistent preferences in each of the nine rounds they played on Professor Van Lange’s watch. The data showed that players who made the more generous choices had more siblings. The givers averaged two siblings; the others averaged one and a half siblings. More siblings means more sharing, which seems to predispose people toward giving.
在受范兰格教授监督的九轮游戏中，游戏者在每一轮都表现出一致的喜好。数据显示，做出更加慷慨选择的游戏者拥有更多子女。赠予者平均有两个子女；其他人平均有一个半子女。更多子女意味着更多分享，这一点似乎使人们更具有赠予的倾向。
And once again, gender mattered. The givers were 40 percent more likely to have sisters than the people who made more self-serving, competitive choices. (There was no difference in the number of brothers; it was the number of sisters, not siblings, that predicted greater giving.) And Professor Van Lange’s team pointed to another study showing that the more sisters a father has, the more time he spends raising his own children. After growing up with sisters, men who have opportunities to give are more likely to do so.
同时，性别再次发挥了作用。相比做出更自私、更具竞争性选择的参与者，赠与者本人有姐妹的可能性高出40%（兄弟的人数没有产生不同；是姐妹、而非兄弟姐妹总数，预示着更慷慨的给予）。范兰格教授的团队指出，另一项研究显示，一名父亲本人有更多的姐妹，他抚养自家孩子的时间就越多。在和姐妹们一起长大之后，有机会赠予他人的男性更有可能这么做。
SOCIAL scientists believe that the empathetic, nurturing behaviors of sisters rub off on their brothers. For example, studies led by the psychologist Alice Eagly at Northwestern University demonstrate that women tend to do more giving and helping in close relationships than men. It might also be that boys feel the impulse — by nature and nurture — to protect their sisters. Indeed, Professor Eagly finds that men are significantly more likely to help women than to help men.
社会科学家认为，姐妹们为他人着想的养育行为，感染了她们的兄弟。例如，西北大学(Northwestern University)心理学家艾丽斯·伊格利(Alice Eagly)主导的研究显示，在亲密的关系中，和男性相比，女性倾向于更多地赠予或帮助他人。这也可能是因为，出于本能和培养，男孩们感受到保护自己姐妹的冲动。的确，伊格利教授发现，男性帮助女性的可能性，比帮助同性的可能性大得多。
Some of the world’s most charitable men acknowledge the inspiration provided by the women in their lives. Twenty years ago, when Bill Gates was on his way to becoming the world’s richest man, he rejected advice to set up a charitable foundation. He planned to wait a quarter-century before he started giving his money away, but changed his mind the following year. Just three years later, Mr. Gates ranked third on Fortune’s list of the most generous philanthropists in America. In between, he welcomed his first child: a daughter.
全球最富于慈善精神的一些男性承认，是他们人生中的女性激励了他们。20年前，比尔·盖茨正走在成为全球首富的路上，当时，他拒绝了建立一个慈善基金会的建议。他计划等25年，再开始把他的钱分发出去，但在次年就改变了想法。仅仅三年后，盖茨就跻身《财富》(Fortune)全美最慷慨慈善家排行榜的第三名。在此期间，他迎来了他的第一个孩子：一个女儿。
Mr. Gates has reflected that two female family members — his mother, Mary, and his wife, Melinda — were major catalysts for his philanthropic surge. Mary “never stopped pressing me to do more for others,” Mr. Gates said in a Harvard commencement speech. The turning point came in 1993, shortly before he and Melinda married. At a wedding event, Mary read a letter aloud that she had written to Melinda about marriage. Her concluding message was reminiscent of the Voltaire (or Spiderman) mantra that great power implies great responsibility: “From those to whom much is given, much is expected.”
盖茨曾回忆道，家中的两名女性成员——其母玛丽(Mary)和其妻梅琳达(Melinda)——是他慈善情绪高涨的主要催化剂。在哈佛大学(Harvard)的一次毕业演讲中，盖茨曾说，玛丽“永不停歇地敦促我为他人做更多事情”。1993年，就在和梅琳达结婚之前不久，转折点来临了。在一次婚礼仪式期间，玛丽朗读了她写给梅琳达的一封关于婚姻的信。她的总结性话语让人想起伏尔泰（Voltaire，或蜘蛛侠[Spiderman]）的格言，那就是更大的实力意味着更大的责任：“对那些得到更多的人，人们的期望也更大。”
Along with guiding much of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation’s philanthropy, Melinda played a pivotal role in shaping the Giving Pledge. She read a book about a family that sold their home and gave half the proceeds to charity, and began spreading the word about the idea. When Bill Gates and Warren Buffett convened dinners for billionaires to discuss philanthropy, Ms. Gates made sure that wives were invited, too. “Even if he’s the one that made the money, she’s going to be a real gatekeeper,” she said. “And she’s got to go along with any philanthropic plan because it affects her and it affects their kids.”
除了指导比尔及梅琳达·盖茨基金会(Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation)的大多数慈善活动外，梅琳达对“赠与誓言”(Giving Pledge)行动的展开发挥了至关重要的作用。她读到一本书，内容是一个家庭把住宅卖掉，然后把一半所得捐给慈善事业，于是她开始散播“赠与誓言”的构想。当比尔·盖茨和沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)召集亿万富豪们共进晚餐，讨论慈善事业时，盖茨夫人确保各位富豪的太太们也都获得了邀请。她说，“即使丈夫是挣钱的那一个，可妻子才是真正的掌门人。她必须赞同任何慈善计划，因为这将影响她自己和她的孩子们。”
In a provocative 2007 presentation in San Francisco, the psychologist Roy Baumeister asked, “Is there anything good about men?” (The short answer, if you haven’t read “Demonic Males,” by Dale Peterson and Richard Wrangham, is not much.) But our saving grace, Professor Baumeister argues, is that across a wide range of attributes, “men go to extremes more than women.” Men are responsible for the lion’s share of the worst acts of aggression and selfishness, but they also engage in some of the most extreme acts of helping and generosity.
2007年，心理学家罗伊·鲍迈斯特(Roy Baumeister)在旧金山举行的一场挑战传统思维的陈述中问道，“男人们是否有任何优点可言？”（如果你没读过达勒·彼得森[Dale Peterson]和理查德·兰厄姆[Richard Wrangham]的著作《恶魔男人》(Demonic Males)，简短的答案是，优点不多。）不过，鲍迈斯特辩称，男性的可取之处在于，在多种属性上，“男性比女性表现得更极端”。男性要对大部分最糟糕的侵犯行为和自私自利的行为负责，不过，一些最极端的帮助和慷慨行为也是男性所为。
On this point, the economists James Andreoni at the University of California, San Diego, and Lise Vesterlund at the University of Pittsburgh report evidence that whereas many women prefer to share evenly, “men are more likely to be either perfectly selfish or perfectly selfless.” It may be that meaningful contact with women is one of the forces that tilt men toward greater selflessness.
在这一点上，加利福尼亚大学圣地亚哥分校(University of California, San Diego)的詹姆斯·安德烈奥尼(James Andreoni)和匹兹堡大学(University of Pittsburgh)的利斯·韦斯特隆德(Lise Vesterlund)这两位经济学家报告的证据显示，有更多女性喜欢均分，而“男性更加可能要么完全自私、要么完全无私。”也许，和女性之间的有意义接触，是促使男性更加无私的重要力量之一。
THE warming effect of women on men has important implications for education and work. In schools, we need to think carefully about how we organize children into groups. In 1971, in the wake of Texas school desegregation, Elliot Aronson, a psychologist at the University of California, Santa Cruz, validated a simple but powerful approach to reducing stereotypes and prejudice.
女性促使男性变得温暖的这种效应，对于教育和职场有着重要影响。在学校，我们需要慎重地考虑如何对儿童进行分组。1971年，就在德克萨斯学校废除种族隔离制度之后，加利福尼亚大学圣克鲁兹分校(University of California, Santa Cruz)心理学家埃利奥特·阿伦森(Elliot Aronson)验证了一条简单而强力的途径，来减少成见和偏见。
His core idea was that students would learn to respect and care about one another if they had to rely upon one another when collaborating in small groups toward shared goals. Professor Aronson made each student responsible for teaching the group about a different topic that would be covered on a coming test. It was like working on a jigsaw puzzle: the group needed pieces of information from every member in order to put together the general understanding that would be measured on the test. After the experiment, stereotypes and prejudice fell — the students became significantly less hostile toward one another — and the minority students got better grades.
他的核心构想是，在小组里，当学生们为了共同的目标而必须相互依赖、开展协作时，他们就能学会尊重彼此、关爱彼此。阿伦森教授让每个学生在小组里负责传授即将到来的测验所涉及的不同题目。这就像是在玩拼图游戏：一个小组需要来自每个成员的信息片段，才能拼凑成测验所衡量的整体理解。在此次实验之后，成见和偏见有所下降——学生们彼此之间的敌意显著降低了——少数族裔学生获得了更佳的成绩。
What would happen if every classroom followed the jigsaw structure, with mixed-gender study groups providing boys with the opportunity to learn from girls? In addition to gaining knowledge, perhaps they would learn something about teaching, helping and caring for others. When some of those boys grow up to become rich men, they might be less like Scrooge and more like Mr. Gates — or at least less likely to become your wealthy neighbor who refuses to pay his share of the hedge trimming. Or your (not so) great-uncle who always flies first class but sends your kids cheap birthday presents.
如果每间教室都遵循拼图结构，以混合性别学习小组给男孩们提供向女孩学习的机会的话，会发生什么情况？除了获得知识之外，他们也许能学会关于讲解、帮助和关心他人的一些技巧。当其中一些男孩长大之后成为富人，他们也许不那么像斯克鲁奇（Scrooge，小说里的吝啬鬼人物——译注），而更像盖茨，或者至少不太可能变成那位拒绝支付修饰篱笆的份子钱的富邻。他们也不太可能变成你那位总是乘坐头等舱、却给你的孩子送廉价生日礼物的叔祖父。
At work, we sorely need more women in leadership positions. We already know from considerable research that companies are better off when they have more women in top management roles, especially when it comes to innovation. Professors Dezso and Ross have recently shown that between 1992 and 2006, when companies introduced women onto their top management teams, they generated an average of 1 percent more economic value, which typically meant more than $40 million.
在职场，我们亟需更多女性担任领导职位。我们已从大量研究中得知，那些有女人担任高级管理职位的公司表现更好，尤其是在创新方面。德诺和罗斯教授最近证明，在1992年到2006年这段时间里，当公司开始让女人进入高级管理层时，她们平均创造了1%的额外经济价值，这通常意味着4000万美元以上。
We recognize the direct advantages that women as leaders bring to the table, which often include diverse perspectives, collaborative styles, dedication to mentoring and keen understanding of female employees and customers. But we’ve largely overlooked the beneficial effects that women have on the men around them. Is it possible that when women join top management teams, they encourage male colleagues to treat employees more generously and to share knowledge more freely? Increases in motivation, cooperation, and innovation in companies may be fueled not only by the direct actions of female leaders, but also by their influence on male leaders.
我们认识到了女人担任领导时带来的直接优势，她们经常能提供不同的看法、合作模式、热心指导以及对女性员工和顾客的敏锐理解力。但是我们基本上忽视了女人对身边的男人所产生的好的影响。当高级管理层中有女性的身影时，她们是否可能鼓励男性同事对雇员更慷慨一点，并让大家更自由地分享知识？企业内部动力、合作和创新的提高，也许不仅是由女性领导的直接行为所致，也与她们对男性领导的影响有关。
It’s often said that behind every great man stands a great woman. In light of the profound influence that women can have on men’s generosity, it might be more accurate to say that in front of every great man walks a great woman. If we’re wise, we’ll follow her lead.
人们常说，每个成功的男人背后都有一个伟大的女人。鉴于女人对男人的慷慨可能产生的深远影响力 ，或许我们可以更准确地说，在每一个伟大的男人前面，走着一个伟大的女人。如果我们聪明的话，就会跟随她的领导。