MOSCOW — The sweeping accusations that a Kremlin-backed program facilitated doping by elite Russian track-and-field athletes in the Olympics and other top sports events earned a collective shrug Tuesday from the Russian public and even, to some extent, from the officials who oversaw the debacle.
莫斯科——舆论广泛指责克里姆林宫支持俄罗斯精英田径运动员在奥运会等顶级体育赛事中服用兴奋剂。但是本周二，俄罗斯公众对此事的反应却是不以为意，就连处理这场风暴的俄罗斯官员，也多少持有这种态度。
Was there public outrage over the destruction of positive drug tests, the intimidation of laboratory technicians by secret agents and the extortion of the athletes by the officials in charge who wanted to cover up the test results? Almost none. Were there questions about the capability of President Vladimir Putin to run a clean, competent administration? Even fewer.
药检阳性结果被损毁，检验技术人员遭到特工恐吓，主管官员想要掩盖检验结果因而敲诈运动员，这些事情有没有引起公愤？几乎没有。那么有没有人质疑普京总统是否有能力组建廉洁、称职的政府呢？更加没有。
And this was just the latest in a series of nasty shocks to Russia, some of them the direct result of the actions of Putin.
这仅仅是俄罗斯遇到的一系列恶劣事件中最新的一起，其中一些事件就是普京采取的行动的直接后果。
Choked by low oil prices and Western sanctions imposed after the invasions of Crimea and Ukraine, the economy is shrinking. The ruble has lost more than half its value, inflation is at 11.2 percent and a much-vaunted national project to create local substitutes for banned Western imports seems to have produced mostly stuff like dubious cheese made from palm oil.
由于油价下跌，而且俄罗斯入侵克里米亚和乌克兰后受到了西方的制裁，俄罗斯经济陷入萎缩。卢布已经贬值逾一半，通货膨胀高达11.2%，虽然政府推出了一个广为吹嘘的项目，试图用本地生产的产品来替代西方禁止进口的商品，但产出的却主要是棕榈油制成的可疑的奶酪之类的东西。
And last week, a Russian charter flight plummeted into the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt, killing all 224 people on board, in what British and U.S. intelligence agencies suspect may have been a terrorist attack in response to the Kremlin's military intervention in Syria.
上周，俄罗斯一架包机在埃及西奈半岛坠落，机上224人全部遇难，英国和美国情报机构怀疑这是一起恐怖袭击，原因可能是对克里姆林宫军事干预叙利亚内战进行报复。
Yet, the basic reaction is to shrug and point a finger elsewhere, preferably at the West.
然而，俄罗斯人的反应基本上都是不以为意，而且还把矛头指向了别处，主要是西方。
“The West is envious that our athletes achieve good results, so they pushed forward the doping claims,” said Boris Ivanov, a rail-thin retired construction engineer, without a trace of irony. “Everybody takes dope! Americans and other nations, all of them!”
“西方嫉妒我们的运动员取得了好成绩，所以就拿兴奋剂说事，”鲍里斯·伊万诺夫(Boris Ivanov)说，“所有人都在服用兴奋剂！美国和其他国家都是这样，全部都是！”他是一名身材单薄的退休建筑工程师，语气中不带一丝反讽。
Russia was singled out, he said, because the Americans run most such organizations and “they want to attack Russia.”
他说，俄罗斯被挑刺儿，是因为这类组织大多都是美国人在掌管，“他们想要攻击俄罗斯”。
As in Soviet times, sports remains a government affair and another facet of global prestige, so any blow to the image of the athletes is also a blow to the Kremlin. Putin announced that he would meet with senior athletic officials on Wednesday.
就像在苏联时代一样，体育仍然属于政府事务，代表着俄罗斯在全球的声誉，所以对运动员形象的打击，就是对克里姆林宫的打击。普京宣布，他周三会与高级运动官员会面。
After initial outrage over the accusations, the official Russian reaction was somewhat more circumspect, with officials promising to investigate and to take steps to correct the situation (something they promised back in 2013, before the Sochi Olympics, where the Russian anti-doping agency was the lead tester).
俄罗斯官方最初对这种指责表示了愤怒，之后则做出了较为谨慎的回应，政府官员承诺将进行调查并采取纠正措施（他们在索契奥运会召开之前的2013年就做过这样的承诺，俄罗斯反兴奋剂机构是索契奥运会的主要检验机构）。
Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, the director of the Moscow lab accused of malfeasance whom the report suggested be replaced, resigned.
莫斯科这所实验室的负责人格里高利·罗德其科夫博士(Grigory Rodchenkov)被指有渎职行为，报告建议换人，结果他辞了职。
Russian officials still minimized the import of what experts are calling one of the most damning public reports in the history of sports — “worse than we thought,” in the words of a co-author and doping expert, Dick Pound.
俄罗斯官员仍然在尽量压制相关报告的传入，专家们称这是体育史上最糟糕的公开报告之一。报告合著者、兴奋剂专家迪克·庞德(Dick Pound)说，“比我们想象的更加糟糕。”
“Believe me, there are many similar doping scandals all over the world,” Vitaly Mutko, Russia's sports minister, said in his initial public reaction, arguing that doping should be considered an international issue, since elite Russian athletes spend some 10 months of the year abroad competing. “Doping is not a problem of Russia.”
“相信我，全球各地有很多类似的兴奋剂丑闻，”俄罗斯体育部长维塔利·穆特科(Vitaly Mutko)在最初的公开回应中表示。他称兴奋剂应被视为一个国际问题，因为精英俄罗斯运动员每年有10个月出国参加比赛，“兴奋剂不是俄罗斯的问题。”
A number of factors contribute to Russians' readiness to accept such explanations, the primary being the survival instinct. Most of the 140 million Russians struggle just to get by, and do not involve themselves too deeply in larger issues.
俄罗斯人愿意接受这种解释的因素有很多，最主要的原因是生存本能。在俄罗斯1.4亿人中，大部分都在勉强度日，不想深入考虑更大的问题。
Traditionally, though, the first line of defense against any problem is stoicism. This is especially true since Putin has painted any current problems as the side-effects of a national effort to “pull Russia off its knees,” where the West is said to have shoved it in the first place.
但是在传统上，抵御任何问题的第一道防线就是坚忍自强。自从普京把遭遇的任何问题都解释成“重振俄罗斯”的副作用，声称最初压制俄罗斯的就是西方之后，这种情形就更明显了。
“We have had more difficult times before,” said Viktoria Troschanskaya, a middle-aged Russian lawyer wandering through a Moscow park.
“我们之前经历过更困难的时期，”中年俄罗斯律师维多利亚·托斯采斯卡亚(Viktoria Troschanskaya)说。接受采访时她在莫斯科的一个公园散步。
“Russia is a country that is ready to tolerate pain for the sake of national greatness,” said Natalya V. Zubarevich, a professor who specializes in Russian demographics. “The simple rational explanation — the economy went down, people must be angry — does not work in Russia.”
“俄罗斯是这样一个国家，人们乐于为了成就国家的伟大而过苦日子，”俄罗斯人口学教授纳塔利娅·V·朱巴尔维奇(Natalya V. Zubarevich)。“经济下滑了，人们必定就会愤怒——这种简单的理性解释在俄罗斯是不成立的。”
Second, when they look for answers, state-run television tells them exactly what to think. Ever since the March 2014 annexation of Crimea, the mantra has been that Putin seeks to restore Russia as a great power, a goal the West is determined to thwart. It is a circular argument that magnifies any gains and explains away any setbacks.
然后，当他们寻找答案时，官方电视台就会告诉他们该怎么想。自从2014年3月吞并克里米亚以来，官方的论调一直是普京想复兴俄罗斯的大国地位，而西方一心要阻止俄罗斯。这是一个循环论证，任何成果都会被夸大，任何挫折都可以一言蔽之。
Given that some 90 percent of Russians rely on state-run television as their primary news source, and that for at least 18 months there has been a steady drumbeat of anti-Americanism across all news programs, many people react automatically.
鉴于90%左右的俄罗斯人都把官方电视台作为主要的新闻来源，而且至少在18个月的时间里，所有新闻节目一直在鼓吹反美情绪，所以就会有很多人形成自然而然的反应。
What the West considers a doping scandal in Russia will most likely “be stretched to be understood as something done for the public good,” said Andrey Babitsky, a former editor of Russian Esquire who recently founded a libertarian website, www.inliberty.ru.
俄语版《Esquire》前编辑安德烈·巴比茨基(Andrey Babitsky)称，在俄罗斯，西方眼中的兴奋剂丑闻，极有可能“会被粉饰加工，解释成为了公众利益而做的事情”。巴比茨基最近创立了自由派网站www.inliberty.ru。
“We are in a kind of competition, not to say a war with the West,” said Babitsky, explaining the general reaction, not endorsing it. “Everybody knows that everybody cheats, and if we were caught red-handed, it just means that they cheat better than we do.”
“我们和西方即使不能说处于战争关系，也是处于一种竞争关系，”巴比茨基如此解释俄罗斯人的总体反应。他本人并不认同这种思路。“大家都知道所有人都作弊，认为如果被抓了现行，不过是意味着他们作弊的手段比我们高明。”
Finally, Russian officials face little accountability, and Putin in particular has sought to insulate his loyalists from any public rebuke. There is a dark historical precedent at play. Since Czarist times, Russians have been told that their leader will always protect their best interests, and they have been conditioned across centuries never to question that fact.
最后，俄罗斯官员几乎不会被问责，而且普京尤其希望确保，忠于自己的人不会受到任何公开指责。有一个邪恶的历史先例在发挥作用。从沙皇时期以来，俄罗斯人便被告知，他们的领袖将永远保护他们的最大利益。几个世纪以来，他们习惯了从不质疑这个事实。
At the deepest levels, analysts say, the idea of morality in public policy died out decades ago, if not centuries, under the weight of government repression.
分析人士称，最深层次的原因是，在政府的打压之下，公共政策应当合乎道德的观点，在几十年前已经绝迹了，甚至可能已经绝迹几个世纪了。
“It is not that Russian people are bad,” Babitsky said. “It is just that for 100 years they have not seen a politician who lives by any moral standards. When you bring up a moral argument, everybody looks at you as a kind of crazy person, like those people on Times Square shouting about the end of the world.”
“不是因为俄罗斯人坏，”巴比茨基说。“只是因为100年来，他们没见过哪个政界人物秉持任何道德标准。因此当你提出道德论点时，所有人都会看着你，仿佛是你疯了，就像那些在时报广场呼喊‘世界末日即将到来’的人一样。”