It’s now official: 2014 was the warmest year on record. You might expect this to be a politically important milestone. After all, climate change deniers have long used the blip of 1998 — an unusually hot year, mainly due to an upwelling of warm water in the Pacific — to claim that the planet has stopped warming. This claim involves a complete misunderstanding of how one goes about identifying underlying trends. (Hint: Don’t cherry-pick your observations.) But now even that bogus argument has collapsed. So will the deniers now concede that climate change is real?
现在有了正式的消息：2014年是有历史记录以来气温最高的一年。你或许以为，这会是政治上的重要里程碑。毕竟，那些否认气候变化的人士一直在引用1998年的气温峰值来宣称地球已停止变暖。那一年异常地热，而主要原因要归结到太平洋的一股上升暖流。这一说法全盘误解了我们确定事物潜在趋势的惯常实践。（提示：不要对观察的对象进行有倾向性的筛选。）不过，到了如今，就连这种虚空的理由也崩塌了。那么，那些否认者现在是不是承认了气候变化真实存在呢？
Of course not. Evidence doesn’t matter for the “debate” over climate policy, where I put scare quotes around “debate” because, given the obvious irrelevance of logic and evidence, it’s not really a debate in any normal sense. And this situation is by no means unique. Indeed, at this point it’s hard to think of a major policy dispute where facts actually do matter; it’s unshakable dogma, across the board. And the real question is why.
当然没有。在有关气候政策的“辩论”中，证据无足轻重。我之所以在“辩论”二字上打了表示怀疑的引号，是因为逻辑与证据明显缺席，这并非真正意义上的辩论。这种情形绝非个案。实际上，今时今日，难以想出事实在哪一项重大政治分歧中还真正举足轻重的。无法撼动的教条已经覆盖到了方方面面。而其中真正的问题是，原因何在？
Before I get into that, let me remind you of some other news that won’t matter.
在探讨这一话题前，请允许我先提醒大家一些同样无足轻重的消息。
First, consider the Kansas experiment. Back in 2012 Sam Brownback, the state’s right-wing governor, went all in on supply-side economics: He drastically cut taxes, assuring everyone that the resulting boom would make up for the initial loss in revenues. Unfortunately for his constituents, his experiment has been a resounding failure. The economy of Kansas, far from booming, has lagged the economies of neighboring states, and Kansas is now in fiscal crisis.
首先是堪萨斯州的实践活动。2012年的时候，那里的右翼州长萨姆·布朗巴克(Sam Brownback)全面倒向了供应经济学：他大幅减税，并向每个人保证，随之而来的经济繁荣将抵消初始的财政收入损失。对他的选民而言，不幸的是，这项尝试遭遇惨败。堪萨斯州的经济绝非欣欣向荣，而是落到了相邻各州的后面，而且现在还陷入了财政危机。
So will we see conservatives scaling back their claims about the magical efficacy of tax cuts as a form of economic stimulus? Of course not. If evidence mattered, supply-side economics would have faded into obscurity decades ago. Instead, it has only strengthened its grip on the Republican Party.
那么，我们会看到保守派不再那么高调地宣扬减税在经济刺激方面的奇效吗？当然不会。如果证据至关重要的话，供应经济学早就会在几十年前消失于无形了。实际情况正好相反，它在共和党人中间不断得到强化。
Meanwhile, the news on health reform keeps coming in, and it keeps being more favorable than even the supporters expected. We already knew that the number of Americans without insurance is dropping fast, even as the growth in health care costs moderates. Now we have evidence that the number of Americans experiencing financial distress due to medical expenses is also dropping fast.
与此同时，与医疗改革相关的消息不断涌现，也不断展现出比其支持者的预期还要好的结果。我们已经得知，未获保险覆盖的美国民众的人数正在快速下降，相应的医疗开支的增长却有所放缓。眼下我们还看到证据显示，因医疗开销而承受经济压力的人数也在快速递减。
All this is utterly at odds with dire predictions that reform would lead to declining coverage and soaring costs. So will we see any of the people claiming that Obamacare is doomed to utter failure revising their position? You know the answer.
所有这些都与此前的可怕预言背道而驰。医改并未导致覆盖率下降、开支暴涨。那么，我们会看到宣称“奥巴马医改”注定一败涂地的那些人里有谁站出来修正自己的立场吗？答案不言自明。
And the list goes on. On issues that range from monetary policy to the control of infectious disease, a big chunk of America’s body politic holds views that are completely at odds with, and completely unmovable by, actual experience. And no matter the issue, it’s the same chunk. If you’ve gotten involved in any of these debates, you know that these people aren’t happy warriors; they’re red-faced angry, with special rage directed at know-it-alls who snootily point out that the facts don’t support their position.
同一个单子里还可以列出许多项目。从货币政策到疾病防控，这种种议题中有很大一部分美国人秉持的观点完全违背实际经验，也全盘不受实践的影响。而且无论是何议题，都是这同一群人。倘若介入到其中任何一场论战中，你就会明白这些人可不是什么无畏的斗士：他们脸红脖子粗，特别恼怒于那些胆敢高傲地指出事实并不支持其立场的万事通。
The question, as I said at the beginning, is why. Why the dogmatism? Why the rage? And why do these issues go together, with the set of people insisting that climate change is a hoax pretty much the same as the set of people insisting that any attempt at providing universal health insurance must lead to disaster and tyranny?
正如我在前文指出的，问题是，原因何在？他们为何如此教条？又为何这样满腔怒火？又是什么把这些议题捆绑到了一起，让坚称气候变化是骗局的那帮人，基本上就是坚称任何企图提供全民医保的行为必将导致灾难和暴政的那帮人？
Well, it strikes me that the immovable position in each of these cases is bound up with rejecting any role for government that serves the public interest. If you don’t want the government to impose controls or fees on polluters, you want to deny that there is any reason to limit emissions. If you don’t want the combination of regulation, mandates and subsidies that is needed to extend coverage to the uninsured, you want to deny that expanding coverage is even possible. And claims about the magical powers of tax cuts are often little more than a mask for the real agenda of crippling government by starving it of revenue.
好吧，触动我的是，在这每件事情上，此类不可动摇的立场均与抗拒政府发挥为公众利益服务的作用密不可分。如果说你不想要政府对污染部门施加控制或征收费用，你就会去否认有任何理由来支持限制排放。如果说你不想为了扩大医保的覆盖面而采用必须的监管、法令与补贴相结合的手法，你就会去否认存在扩大覆盖面的可能性。至于宣扬减税出奇效的那些说法，往往不过是个幌子，背后的真实意图是通过切断收入来源来让政府瘫痪。
And why this hatred of government in the public interest? Well, the political scientist Corey Robin argues that most self-proclaimed conservatives are actually reactionaries. That is, they’re defenders of traditional hierarchy — the kind of hierarchy that is threatened by any expansion of government, even (or perhaps especially) when that expansion makes the lives of ordinary citizens better and more secure. I’m partial to that story, partly because it helps explain why climate science and health economics inspire so much rage.
另外，他们为什么要痛恨政府为公众利益服务呢？政治学者科里·罗宾(Corey Robin)提出的理论是，多数自称保守派的那些人实际上是反动派。换言之，他们在维护传统等级秩序——那种受到政府扩张威胁的秩序，就算（兴许尤其是因为）扩张能让普通民众的生活变得更好、更安稳。我个人钟爱这一理论，一定程度是因为它有助于解释气候科学与医保经济为何招致了熊熊怒火。