While the pull-up has been used by everyone from middle-school gym teachers to Marine drill instructors to measure fitness, the fact is that many fit people, particularly women, can't do even one. To perform a pull-up, you place your hands on a raised bar using an overhand grip, arms fully extended and feet off the floor. (The same exercise, performed with an underhand grip, is often called a chin-up.) Using the muscles in your arms and back, you pull yourself up until your chin passes the bar. Then the body is lowered until the arms are straight, and the exercise is repeated. The Marines say a male recruit should be able to do at least 3 pull-ups or chin-ups, but women are not required to do them. In school, 14-year-old boys can earn the highest award on the government's physical fitness test by doing 10 pull-ups or chin-ups: for 14-year-old girls, it's 2.
从中学体育老师到海军陆战队训练教官，人人都把引体向上作为测试体能的标准，但事实是，许多健身的人，尤其是女性，连一个也做不起来。为了完成引体向上，你要把双手正手握在上方的横杠上，双臂完全打开，双脚离开地面。（同样的练习，用反手握，一般称为反手引体向上。）用你手臂和背部的肌肉，把自己的身体拉起来，直到下巴越过横杠。然后把身体放下，直到双臂伸直，再重复动作。海军陆战队表示，男队员应该能做至少3个正手或反手引体向上，但女性不需要做。在学校，14岁的男生如果能做10个正手或反手引体向上，可以得到政府体能测试的最高分；而对14岁的女生来说，2个就够了。
To find out just how meaningful a fitness measure the pull-up really is, exercise researchers from the University of Dayton found 17 normal-weight women who could not do a single overhand pull-up. Three days a week for three months, the women focused on exercises that would strengthen the biceps and the latissimus dorsi - the large back muscle that is activated during the exercise. They lifted weights and used an incline to practice a modified pull-up, raising themselves up to a bar, over and over, in hopes of strengthening the muscles they would use to perform the real thing. They also focused on aerobic training to lower body fat.
为了了解引体向上对体能测试的意义究竟有多重要，戴顿大学(University of Dayton)的运动研究人员找了17位正常体重的女性，她们一个引体向上也做不了。三个月中，每周三天，这些女性必须进行肱二头肌和背阔肌的锻炼，背阔肌是锻炼中要用到的大块背部肌肉。她们需要举重，用斜杠练习较缓和的引体向上运动，把自己一次又一次拉向横杠，希望能够强壮用于进行真正引体向上的肌肉。她们还进行有氧练习以降低体脂。
By the end of the training program, the women had increased their upper-body strength by 36 percent and lowered their body fat by 2 percent. But on test day, the researchers were stunned when only 4 of the 17 women succeeded in performing a single pull-up.
在训练计划结束时，这些女性的上肢力量增加了36%，体脂降低了2%。但是在测试日，研究人员惊呆了，17名女性中只有4人成功完成了1个引体向上。
"We honestly thought we could get everyone to do one," said Paul Vanderburgh, a professor of exercise physiology and associate provost and dean at the University of Dayton, and an author of the study. But Vanderburgh said the study and other research has shown that performing a pull-up requires more than simple upper-body strength. Men and women who can do them tend to have a combination of strength, low body fat and shorter stature. During training, because women have lower levels of testosterone, they typically develop less muscle than men, Vanderburgh explained. In addition, they can't lose as much fat. Men can conceivably get to 4 percent body fat; women typically bottom out at more than 10 percent.
“说真的，我们原以为每个人都能做一个。”保罗·范德伯(Paul Vanderburgh)说。他是戴顿大学运动生理学教授和副教务长、教导主任，也是研究作者之一。但是范德伯说这一研究和其他试验都说明，完成引体向上需要的不仅仅是上肢力量。能够完成引体向上的男性和女性在力量、低体脂和较短的身材方面三者得兼。范德伯解释说，在训练过程中，因为女性的睾酮水平较低，她们能练出的肌肉比男性少。另外，她们能减的脂肪也没那么多。男性体脂可以低至4%，女性通常至少超过10%。
So no matter how fit they are, women typically fare worse on pull-up tests. But Vanderburgh notes that some men struggle, too, particularly those who are taller or bigger generally or have long arms. This is related to an interesting phenomenon: if you compare a smaller athlete to an athlete who has the same exact build but is 30 percent bigger, the bigger athlete will be only about 20 percent stronger, even though he has to carry about 30 percent more weight.
所以，无论女性身材有多健美，她们在引体向上测试中通常表现较差。但是范德伯强调，有些男性也很难做到，尤其是那些身材较高、较壮或者手臂较长的。这涉及到一个有趣的现象：如果你把身材较小的运动员与同样体型但重了30%的运动员相比较，强壮的运动员实际上只壮20%，虽然他负担的体重多了30%。
"We're a combination of levers; that's how we move," Vanderburgh said. "Generally speaking, the longer the limb, the more of a disadvantage in being able to do a pull-up. I look at a volleyball player and wouldn't expect her to be able to do a pull-up, but I know she's fit."
“人体就是各种杠杆组合，这是我们运动的方式，”范德伯说：“一般来说，肢体越长， 进行引体向上的时候越吃亏。当我看到女排运动员的时候，我知道她很健美，但我真的不认为她能做引体向上。”