THE success of Secretary of State John Kerry in leading Israelis and Palestinians to resume negotiations is presenting the United States with an immense challenge.
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在引领以色列和巴勒斯坦恢复谈判方面的成功正在为美国带来一个巨大的挑战。
Right now, there’s almost no chance of achieving a conflict-ending agreement; yet by pressing the Israelis and Palestinians back toward the table, the United States has assumed responsibility for producing one.
目前，几乎不可能达成一项结束冲突的协议；但通过迫使以色列和巴勒斯坦重新回到谈判桌上，美国已经承担起了制造这样一个机会的责任。
Above all, the Americans now need to lower expectations and find a realistic focus for the talks. That means pushing for an agreement on borders and security first, without precluding discussion of Jerusalem and refugees too.
首先，美国人现在必须降低期望，为谈判找到一个切实可行的重点。这意味着首先要推动在边界和安全问题上达成协议，同时不能排除日后对耶路撒冷和难民问题的讨论。
Many have questioned why Mr. Kerry is focusing on the Israeli-Palestinian issue, while Syria is embroiled in civil war, Egypt is in political crisis, and Iran is moving to develop a nuclear weapons capacity. Negotiating this conflict first hardly seems the key to Middle East stability.
许多人质疑，在叙利亚为内战所困、埃及深陷政治危机、伊朗正准备发展核武器能力的时刻，克里为何将注意力集中在巴以问题上。首先通过谈判解决这一冲突似乎并不是中东局势稳定的关键。
But the Israeli-Palestinian problem is a witches’ brew and always dynamic. A conflict-ending accord may not be possible now, but without a credible negotiation to manage the situation, it will only deteriorate further.
但巴以问题非常棘手，而且总在不断变化。或许，一项结束冲突的协议现在看来也许是不可能的，但如果没有可信的谈判来控制局势，这个问题只会进一步恶化。
For Israel, the absence of serious negotiations would increase its isolation and rule out hope for a solution that could secure its values as a democratic Jewish state. Palestinians would grow even more polarized and aggrieved; they would find ways to challenge the occupation, emboldening Hamas and other Islamists to attack Israel with increasingly powerful weapons.
对以色列而言，没有严肃的谈判，它会更孤立，而且也排除了达成一个解决方案的希望，而这个解决方案能保障它作为一个民主犹太国家的价值。巴勒斯坦人则可能变得更分化、更加充满怨恨；他们可能会找到方式来挑战以色列的侵占行为，并因此鼓励哈马斯(Hamas)和其他伊斯兰派组织用越来越强大的武器攻击以色列。
And an unresolved Palestinian issue would over time undermine Egypt’s and Jordan’s treaties with Israel, regardless of whether Islamists or secularists hold power in Cairo and Amman. It would also continue to drag down our credibility in the Arab world.
随着时间的推移，不管在开罗和安曼掌权的是伊斯兰主义者还是世俗主义者，未解决的巴勒斯坦问题都会破坏埃及和约旦同以色列签订的条约。它还会继续贬低我们在阿拉伯世界的信誉。
Talking for talking’s sake is not what I am proposing. That would make matters only worse. But a serious process toward achievable goals could build trust and reduce tensions.
我的建议不是为了谈判而谈判。这只会让情况更糟。但一个有着可实现目标的严肃进程，将能够建立信任，缓和紧张局势。
Where to start? Mr. Kerry was right to focus on prisoner releases, like the one Israel announced over the weekend. In addition, there might be agreements by the Israelis to effectively freeze new settlements and by the Palestinians to refrain from United Nations action or taking Israel to the International Criminal Court, along with an end of incitement to hatred in the Palestinian media. Those can buy time and political cover for both sides to identify larger shared interests to negotiate about, including enhancing Israeli-Palestinian security cooperation and allowing Palestinians to expand their economic projects in Area C of the West Bank, which is under Israel’s control.
从哪儿开始？克里将重点放在释放囚犯上是对的，以色列在周末就宣布了这样一项计划。此外，可能会达成一些协议，以色列可能会承诺停止新建定居点，而巴勒斯坦可能也会同意不再要求联合国采取行动，或把以色列送上国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)，并结束在巴勒斯坦媒体上继续煽动仇恨。这些协议能为双方争取到时间和政治上的支持，以便识别更重要的共同利益来进行谈判，包括加强巴以安全合作，以及允许巴勒斯坦人扩大其在约旦河西岸C区的经济项目，该地区现在处于以色列的控制之下。
Instead of chasing the quixotic endgame of a deal on issues of identity like Jerusalem and refugees, the broad theme of the negotiations should be about the territorial ones — land and security. Specifically the focus should be on defining a border for a Palestinian state. Even under this narrower definition, success will be excruciatingly difficult.
谈判的重点议题应该是涉及土地和安全的边界问题，而不是不切实际地追求在耶路撒冷和难民等身份认同问题上达成最终协议。具体来说，重点应该是确定巴勒斯坦国的边界。即使根据这个更狭窄的定义，成功也将非常难。
Paradoxically, Mr. Kerry’s personal success in getting negotiations going, and his stake in their success, now open him to the serious possibility of failure. The talks are starting in Washington, not in the region; he has designated himself the only spokesman for the very delicate start-up process, not the parties, and at least for now neither side is prepared to discuss publicly — or convey directly to each other — the parameters that will guide the negotiations. Nobody appears to have a stake in the talks except the United States, and Mr. Kerry.
矛盾的是，克里个人在推动谈判进行上的成功，以及谈判成功对他的利害关系，现在却很可能会让他失败。谈判即将在华盛顿举行，而不是该地区；他已将自己任命为这个需极小心应对的启动进程的唯一发言人，而非谈判的任意一方，而且至少目前双方都还没准备好公开讨论将会引导谈判的规范，或是直接对此进行沟通。似乎除了美国和克里外，谈判不关任何人的事。
Yet ownership is critical. Of the three historic breakthroughs in Arab-Israeli peacemaking, all were initiated by the parties themselves: secret Israeli-Egyptian contacts in 1977 preceded Anwar el-Sadat’s trip to Jerusalem and offered Jimmy Carter a chance to broker an agreement; quiet negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, facilitated by Norway, produced the Oslo breakthrough in 1993; years of discreet contacts between Israel and Jordan led to their peace treaty in 1994. In each instance, the United States contributed — at times decisively — but only after the parties themselves had made very difficult choices.
尽管如此，所有权十分重要。在缔造和平方面，阿拉伯国家和以色列取得的三次历史性突破全都是由当事方自行发起的，它们分别是以色列和埃及在1977年的秘密接触，此举促成了安瓦尔·萨达特(Anwar el-Sadat)的耶路撒冷之行，还使吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)有机会促成一项协议的达成；在挪威的协助下，以色列人和巴勒斯坦人暗中进行了谈判，由此导致1993年在奥斯陆取得重大突破；以色列和约旦之间维系多年的谨慎接触于1994年促生了约以和平条约。在上述每个例子中，美国都做出了贡献，有时候，这种贡献起到了决定作用，不过，只有在当事方自行做出极为艰难的选择之后，美国的贡献才发挥了作用。
There are three core challenges as the latest talks begin.
随着最新谈判展开，目前存在三个核心挑战。
First, the endgame. A conflict-ending accord that resolves the core issues — borders, Jerusalem, security, refugees and recognition of Israel as the nation state of the Jewish people — and that also adjudicates all claims and forswears further ones seems almost unimaginable. The two sides don’t yet share a common concept for reaching it.
第一个挑战是，签订最终协议。签订一份解决核心问题的结束冲突协议，以求解决边界、耶路撒冷、安全和难民问题，承认以色列是犹太人国家，并对所有诉求做出裁决，宣誓放弃更进一步的要求，这看上去几乎不可想象。对于达成这样一则协议，双方还没有一致的理念。
Second, the current leaders. The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, needs an agreement on all the big issues, while the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, could not sign one and survive politically. The gaps between them are huge, the mistrust deep, the politics on both sides ferocious. The Palestinian public is wary of talks with Israel and reluctant to depart from its consensus stands on Jerusalem and refugees; further, Mr. Abbas’s Fatah-led government shares control over guns, supporters and negotiating authority with the more militant Hamas. For his part, Mr. Netanyahu and his current government are not in full agreement about how to resolve final borders, Jerusalem and refugees in ways that meet Palestinian needs. Mr. Netanyahu’s own ideology, suspicion of the Arabs and lack of belief in the Palestinian capacity to deliver would constrain him from offering concessions. He is focused on Iran, and the last thing he wants is a political crisis that would threaten his government.
第二个挑战来自目前的领导人。巴勒斯坦总统马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)需要一项解决所有重大议题的协议，而以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)无法在签署这样一份协议的同时还能保住自己的政治生命。两人间存在着巨大的分歧和深深的不信任，双方都面临险恶的政治局面。巴勒斯坦民众对与以色列谈判心怀疑虑，不愿意偏离该国在耶路撒冷和难民问题上的共识；而且，由法塔赫(Fatah)主导的阿巴斯政府需要与更为激进的哈马斯(Hamas)分享对枪支、支持者和谈判机构的控制权。就内塔尼亚胡而言，对于如何才能以令巴勒斯坦人满意的方式解决最终划界、耶路撒冷和难民问题，他和目前的政府仍未达成完全的一致。内塔尼亚胡自己的理念、他对阿拉伯人的怀疑，再加上他对巴勒斯坦的执行力缺乏信任，凡此种种都将阻止他提出让步。他的注意力集中在伊朗，他最不愿意看到的，就是一场危及他的政府的政治危机。
Third, this is still very much Mr. Kerry’s process. President Obama has yet to take ownership of it, and at some point, he will have to decide how much political capital he wants to spend on it. A deal on the big issues will not be possible without him playing a major role, perhaps at a high-risk summit meeting of leaders. And this will require him to press both sides for more give. Should Mr. Kerry bring matters to a decision point where key bridging proposals need to be advanced, there will have to be some distance between the American and Israeli positions, and Mr. Obama will have some tough choices to make.
第三个挑战是，在很大程度上，此次谈判依然由克里一手推动。奥巴马总统还没有将它视为己任，有朝一日，他必须决定自己要在这件事上耗费多少政治资本。如果没有他从中扮演重要的角色（也许是在某次高风险的首脑会晤中），是不可能就重大议题达成协议的。这一点将要求他迫使双方付出更多。如果克里推动事态发展到一个决定点，需要在彼时彼刻提出消融隔阂的关键提议，那么美国和以色列的立场就必然会出现一定分歧，而奥巴马将面临一些艰难的选择。
Mr. Kerry is hoping that direct talks will build confidence and create enough trust for Israelis and Palestinians to feel that they have a stake in the process’s succeeding when so many others have failed. Perhaps he can eventually get the two sides to define border and security arrangements for a provisional Palestinian state, discussing but not trying to decide the tougher identity issues like Jerusalem along the way.
克里希望，直接谈判能让以色列人和巴勒斯坦人建立信心，在二者之间产生足够的互信，让他们觉得，虽然有那么多人都失败了，然而谈判进程取得成果对双方都是利益攸关的。也许，最终他可以促使双方划定边界、为一个暂时的巴勒斯坦国做出安全安排，中间顺便讨论讨论更加棘手的身份认同议题，比如耶路撒冷议题，而不是设法就这些议题做出决断。
The odds against success are very long. Still, Mr. Kerry has put down a bet worth making. Without it, matters will only get worse for the interests of Americans, the Middle East, Israelis and Palestinians alike.
相对成功，失败的几率大得多。不过，克里已经下了一笔物有所值的赌注。如果没有这笔赌注，不管是从美国人的、中东的、还是以色列人和巴勒斯坦人的利益角度来看，事情都只会变得更糟。
Indeed, the only alternative to serious diplomacy now is a surrender to the forces of history and the despair, deterioration and protracted conflict they are certain to bring.
确切地说，要想取代严肃的外交斡旋，唯一的选择就是屈服于历史的力量，以及这股力量必然带来的绝望、堕落和绵延不绝的冲突。