LITTLE ROCK, Ark. — Losing the governor’s race here in 1980 so shattered a young Bill Clinton that he couldn’t face his supporters, so he sent his wife around to thank campaign workers instead. He later gathered with close friends for dinner but quietly sulked, playing the country song “I Don’t Know Whether to Kill Myself or Go Bowling” on the jukebox.
阿肯色州小石城——1980年竞选连任阿肯色州州长失败，这击垮了年轻的比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)。他无法面对自己的支持者，于是让妻子代自己去感谢竞选团队。后来他和一些好友聚在一起共进晚餐，但他却一直暗暗地生着闷气，在自动点唱机上点播了乡村歌曲《我不知道该自杀还是去打保龄球》(I Don’t Know Whether to Kill Myself or Go Bowling)。
But his wife had a more pressing concern: money. The ousted governor needed a job, the family needed a place to live, and moving out of the governor’s mansion meant losing the help they had as they raised their 9-month-old daughter, Chelsea.
但他的妻子有着更迫在眉睫的担忧：钱。离任的州长需要一份工作，这家人需要一个住的地方。而且搬出州长官邸，也意味着失去了在抚养9个月大的女儿切尔西(Chelsea)方面原本拥有的帮助。
The morning after the election, Hillary Clinton worked the phones from the mansion, calling wealthy friends and asking for help.
选举结束后的那天上午，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)从官邸打电话给他们那些有钱的朋友，寻求帮助。
“The world changed. There was a tectonic shift,” said Thomas F. McLarty III, a friend of Bill Clinton’s who served as his White House chief of staff.
“那一刻世界变了，天翻地覆。”比尔·克林顿的朋友、曾担任其白宫幕僚长的托马斯·F·麦克拉蒂三世(Thomas F. McLarty III)说。
Bill Clinton was of little use as he fixated on voters’ rejection. And for the first time, friends said, Hillary Clinton glimpsed fragility in the future she had moved to Arkansas to pursue. She worried about saving for Chelsea’s college, caring for her aging parents, and even possibly supporting herself should the marriage or their political dreams dissolve.
比尔·克林顿当时沉溺于被选民抛弃的痛苦，没有多大用处。朋友们说，那是希拉里·克林顿第一次感到，她搬到阿肯色州来追求的未来有多么不堪一击。她开始担心，如果婚姻破裂，或者他们的政治梦想破灭，她会攒不够钱供切尔西上大学，无法照顾日益年老的父母，甚至无法养活自己。
“It was up to her to just keep holding things up,” said Nancy Pietrafesa, a college friend of Hillary Clinton’s who moved to Arkansas to work for Bill Clinton in the 1970s.
“得由她继续撑起这个家，”希拉里·克林顿大学时代的朋友南希·彼得拉费萨(Nancy Pietrafesa)说。她在70年代搬到了阿肯色州，为比尔·克林顿工作。
Hillary Clinton’s relationship with money has long puzzled even some of her closest supporters: Despite choosing a life in government, she has appeared eager to make money, driven to provide for her family and helping amass a fortune of more than $50 million with her husband.
长久以来，就连与希拉里·克林顿关系最亲密的支持者，也对她对待金钱的态度感到困惑：虽然选择了从事公职，但她似乎又渴望赚钱，努力维持家计，并和丈夫积攒了超过5000万美元的财富。
But Hillary Clinton can seem blind to how her financial decisions are viewed, and has suffered repeated political damage and accusations of conflicts of interest as a result — from serving on the corporate board of Wal-Mart while her husband was governor to initially accepting a $1.35 million mortgage personally secured by a top fundraiser for the family’s Chappaqua, New York, home.
只是，针对外界对其财务决策的看法，希拉里·克林顿似乎选择了无视。这令她在政治上反复受损，并一再被指控存在利益冲突——不管是在丈夫任州长期间担任沃尔玛公司(Wal-Mart)董事，还是最初接受由一位顶级筹款人的私人担保，为他们在纽约州查帕瓜购买的房产抵押了135万美元的贷款。
Her collection of more than $21 million in speaking fees from a range of groups, including Wall Street firms and other interests, led to one of the most potent attacks against her in this election cycle, given voters’ anger about economic inequality. Half of all voters said it bothered them “a lot” that Clinton gave numerous speeches to Wall Street banks, according to a Bloomberg Politics poll conducted in June.
包括华尔街公司和其他利益集团在内，她从各种机构获得了超过2100万美元的演讲费。鉴于选民对经济不平等存在的愤怒情绪，这也是她在本次选举周期受到最有力攻击的一个地方。彭博政治(Bloomberg Politics)今年6月进行的民意调查显示，有半数选民表示，他们对克林顿给华尔街银行做了无数演讲感到“非常”困扰。
Donald Trump has called Clinton “totally owned by Wall Street.”
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)称克林顿“完全被华尔街掌控”。
Trump, whose own finances have drawn extensive scrutiny, may be an imperfect messenger, but “Republicans can say, ‘This undercuts everything she is saying about what she wants to do to regulate Wall Street and her economic populist stance,'” said Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster.
自身财务广受诟病的特朗普，或许并不是传达这一讯息的最佳人选，但“共和党人可以说，‘这削弱了她关于监管华尔街的所有言论的可信度，也削弱了她的经济民粹主义立场，’”民主党民意调查专家安娜·格林伯格(Anna Greenberg)说。
Even some of Clinton’s allies privately say they are mystified by her choice to make the Wall Street speeches, given the likelihood that they would become an issue in a presidential campaign. And to some of them, her financial moves clash with the selfless Methodist credo to do good for others that she so often says guided her toward a life of public service.
就连克林顿的一些盟友也在私下表示，他们对她选择为华尔街机构做演讲感到不解，因为这可能成为总统竞选中的一个问题。在其中一些人看来，克林顿的财务举措与循道宗教徒信奉的、为他人行善的无私信念存在着冲突。她经常说正是这一信条，引导她走上了为公共事业服务的人生。
But her longtime friends say the contradiction is rooted in Clinton’s practicality and the boom-and-bust cycles that have characterized her life with Bill Clinton.
不过她的老友表示，这种矛盾缘于克林顿的实用主义，以及她和比尔·克林顿生活所带有的特性：起起落落。
At no time did those stresses fall more squarely on Hillary Clinton’s shoulders than in the difficult two-year period in Arkansas when she and her husband found themselves cast out of office, financially strained and deeply uncertain about the future. And the memory of that time shaped her desire to be free from financial burden.
他们在阿肯色州的那两年里，希拉里·克林顿承受的压力比任何时候都来得更直接。当时，夫妇二人失去了公职，财务吃紧，对未来感到极大的不确定。那一时期的记忆使她产生了摆脱经济负担的欲望。
“Hillary had a couple years of the taste of what it means to be a working mother, without any help, to have to take care of a small baby and care for your job,” said James B. Blair, a close Clinton friend and lawyer who offered Hillary Clinton investment advice in the 1970s.
“有那么几年，希拉里体会到了做一个职场母亲意味着什么。没有任何帮助，你必须自己照顾一个年幼的孩子，同时兼顾工作，”克林顿一家的密友、律师詹姆斯·B·布莱尔(James B. Blair)说。此人曾在70年代给希拉里·克林顿提供投资建议。
The Clintons’ unexpected ouster from their comfortable life occurred at a time when Arkansas was swirling with new money and get-rich-quick schemes as companies like Tyson and Wal-Mart minted millionaires and new savings and loan institutions were spreading throughout the South.
当阿肯色州被暴发户和迅速致富的骗局搅得一团糟之际，克林顿夫妇也意外地被逐出舒适的生活。泰森(Tyson)和沃尔玛这样的公司造就了大批百万富翁，新的信贷组织遍及整个南方。
A generation of Ivy League-educated young people, like Bill Clinton, had returned to their home state to make their mark. Money seemed to be all around the Clintons, but they did not have much of their own. And unlike Hillary Clinton, a worrier by nature, Bill Clinton, consumed with his dreams of a political career, seemed indifferent to securing a financial future.
整整一代像比尔·克林顿这样，在常春藤接受教育的年轻人回到老家去发展事业。金钱似乎在克林顿夫妇身周打转，他们自己却没有赚到钱。希拉里·克林顿天生喜欢担忧，比尔·克林顿却不一样，他满心都是从政的梦想，对保障家庭未来的财务状况漠不关心。
“He was never interested in money, ever,” Blair said. “She is the one who had to be sure Chelsea was going to be able to afford college.”
“他对钱从来不感兴趣，”布莱尔说。“她才是那个必须确保切尔西有钱上大学的人。”
People close to Hillary Clinton don’t begrudge her desire to provide generously for her family, and certainly many presidential candidates and public servants acquire vast personal wealth. Asked in an interview whether earlier financial stresses had prompted her to pursue the lucrative speechmaking, Hillary Clinton said, “I really think it’s much simpler than that,” adding that it is typical for secretaries of state to share their views in speeches after leaving office.
对于希拉里·克林顿希望家人过上好日子的渴望，她身边的人并无抱怨。确实，很多总统候选人和公职人员都有数额巨大的财富。在一次采访中，被问到早期的财政压力是否迫使她去做能赚大钱的讲演活动时，希拉里·克林顿说，“我觉得没有那么复杂，”又补充说，国务卿离任后到处演讲发表观点是很普遍的事。
THRIFT STORE DÉCOR
二手店家装
It was one of the smallest houses on the block in Little Rock’s Hillcrest section, and Hillary Clinton largely bought it with her own money, the month after that devastating 1980 election loss.
那是小石城希尔克雷斯特区最小的房子之一，1980年，那场灾难性的选举失利过去一个月之后，希拉里·克林顿用主要是自己的钱买下了它。
She filled the rooms with mismatched furniture bought at thrift stores and borrowed from her flamboyant mother-in-law. She converted the windowed attic into a bedroom for Chelsea, parked her Oldsmobile Cutlass in the weedy driveway, and chased after the family’s cocker spaniel, Zeke, who liked to chew through the fence.
她用不协调的家具装满了房间，不是从二手店买来的，就是从喜好奢华的婆婆那里借来的。她把带窗子的阁楼改建成了切尔西的卧室，把自己的Oldsmobile Cutlass车停在布满杂草的门口车道上，他们养的可卡犬齐克(Zeke)喜欢咬穿篱笆，时时得驱赶它。
The Clintons had stretched their finances to afford the $112,000 home, which was down the hill from the city’s old-money mansions. The sprawling estate of Winthrop Rockefeller, the celebrated former governor, was so close that it practically cast a shadow on the Clintons’ grassy backyard.
克林顿一家尽了最大的经济能力，来负担这栋11.2万美元的房子。它坐落在小山脚下，山上是这座城市的传统豪宅区。著名前州长温斯罗普·洛克菲勒(Winthrop Rockefeller)宽敞的宅邸离这栋房子非常近，连影子都能投在克林顿家杂草丛生的后院上。
Bill Clinton had turned down out-of-state job offers in academia and Democratic politics, and instead took the only offer he had in Arkansas, to serve “of counsel” for $55,000 a year at the Wright, Lindsey & Jennings law firm, where Bill Clinton’s longtime adviser Bruce R. Lindsey was a partner.
比尔·克林顿离任后，拒绝了学术界和民主党政界提供的所有职务，只接受了他在阿肯色州得到的唯一一个职位，在怀特、林赛与詹宁斯律师事务所(Wright, Lindsey & Jennings)担任“律师”，年薪是5.5万美元，他的长期顾问布鲁斯·R·林赛(Bruce R. Lindsey)是公司的合伙人。
But he spent most of his time on the road, often accompanied by Lindsey, trying to win back the hearts of voters.
但他大多数时间都在路上，往往由林赛陪伴。他在竭力赢回选民的心。
“He had to go all over that state, touch base and apologize, and listen to why he lost,” Pietrafesa recalled, “and every one of those visits was a two-, three- or four-hour ordeal.”
“他不得不跑遍整个州，与基层选民接触、道歉，了解自己为何落选，”彼得拉费萨回忆，“每一次拜访都是两三个小时，甚至四个小时的折磨”。
Hillary Clinton had become a partner at the Rose Law Firm in 1979, and during these lean years she balanced her work there with caring for Chelsea, who celebrated her first birthday and learned to walk in the Hillcrest house, on Midland Street. She often felt on her own as Bill Clinton crisscrossed the state, friends said.
在1979年的时候，希拉里·克林顿已成为罗斯律师事务所(Rose Law Firm)的合伙人。在那不太好过的两年里，她努力在工作与照顾切尔西之间维持平衡。在他们位于希尔克雷斯特区米德兰街上的房子里，切尔西度过了一岁生日，学会了走路。朋友们说，比尔·克林顿在阿肯色州各处奔走时，她时常感到孤立无援。
A FRUGAL FATHER
节俭的父亲
Growing up in the upper-middle-class suburb of Park Ridge, Illinois, Hillary Rodham — whose mother had been raised in poverty and whose Depression-era father preached frugality — babysat and held summer jobs beginning when she was 13. Her father, Hugh Rodham, taught his only daughter fiscal responsibility and how to read stock tables in the newspaper.
希拉里·罗姆德在伊利诺伊州帕克里奇的中上阶层郊区长大。她的母亲生长在贫困的家庭，她的父亲经历过大萧条年代，喜欢宣扬节俭观念。她从13岁就开始当临时保姆，在暑假打工。父亲休·罗姆德(Hugh Rodham)教导自己唯一的女儿承担财务责任，教她如何看报纸上的股票行情。
By the time she was a student at Wellesley College, Hillary Clinton and many in her generation were expressing skepticism about the pursuit of money. In her 1969 commencement speech, she denounced materialism and corporate greed. “We’re searching for more immediate, ecstatic and penetrating modes of living,” she declared.
等她到韦尔斯利学院(Wellesley College)上学时，希拉里·克林顿和她那一代的许多人，都在质疑对金钱的追逐。在1969年的毕业演讲中，她谴责了物质主义和企业的贪婪。“我们在寻找更直接、更兴奋和更具渗透性的生活方式，”她宣称。
When she moved to Fayetteville, Arkansas, and later married Bill Clinton in 1975, the Yale Law-educated couple lived happily earning about $18,000 a year each in their positions as professors. But several years later, as Bill Clinton planned his run for the governor’s office and the couple worried about starting a family, Hillary Clinton grew increasingly uneasy about their incomes and started to think more seriously about how to build a nest egg.
当她搬到阿肯色州的费耶特维尔，并于1975年与比尔·克林顿结婚后，作为教授，这对双双毕业于耶鲁法学院的夫妇各自有1.8万美元的年收入，日子过得不错。但是几年后，比尔·克林顿在谋划竞选州长，夫妇二人对安家生子有所顾虑，希拉里·克林顿对他们的收入越发感到不安，开始更认真地考虑如何建立一份储备金。
“She had been the chief breadwinner and financial decision maker,” her best friend, Diane D. Blair, wrote in notes she kept about the era.
“她一直是主要赚钱养家的人，也是家里财务问题决策人，”她最好的朋友黛安·D·布莱尔(Diane D. Blair)在她记录那个年代的笔记中写道。
Hillary Clinton began seeking out investment opportunities, and in 1978 she made one of the most lucrative, if seemingly risky, financial decisions of her life.
希拉里·克林顿开始寻找投资机会，并在1978年做了人生中回报最大的一项财务决定，尽管风险似乎不小。
Blair, the Clintons’ close friend, had made several million dollars in the commodities market, and urged Hillary Clinton to begin trading, too. With an initial investment of just $1,000, she made nearly $100,000 trading cattle futures in a 10-month period, which helped pay for the down payment on the Midland Street home. But the move later haunted her when the investment became the subject of scrutiny in the early years of the Clinton presidency.
克林顿夫妇的好友布莱尔已在大宗商品市场上赚了几百万美元，她劝希拉里·克林顿也做这种交易。希拉里最初只投资了1000美元，但通过进行活牛期货交易，她在十个月后赚取了近10万美元。这笔钱让她得以支付米德兰街上那栋房子的首付款。不过，这一举措在后来不断给她惹来麻烦，克林顿当上总统的初期，这项投资遭到了审视。
It still trails her occasionally: Trump raised it at a rally last month in North Carolina, as he attacked her for being “crooked.” “Look at her cattle futures!'’ he called out to the crowd.
到现在，它还会时不时带来困扰：上月在北卡罗来纳州举行的一场集会活动上，特朗普在攻击希拉里是“奸人”时，重提此事。“看看她的活牛期货投资！”他向在场的听众大声喊道。
Also in 1978, another friend, James B. McDougal, persuaded Hillary Clinton to invest in another venture: the Whitewater real estate development on a brush-covered plot of land in the Ozarks. The Clintons ultimately lost money on the deal, but the development led to an investigation when Bill Clinton was in the White House.
也是在1978年，另一位朋友詹姆斯·B·麦克杜格尔(James B. McDougal)说服希拉里·克林顿进行了另一项风险投资：参与白水公司(Whitewater)对欧扎克一块灌木丛覆盖的土地的地产开发。克林顿夫妇最终在这项投资上赔了钱，但这桩开发导致比尔·克林顿在白宫期间遭到一项调查。
The White House years offered a respite from financial worry. As first lady, Hillary Clinton wrote a book, “It Takes a Village,” for which she did not accept an advance and donated the proceeds to charity. “HRC insists she will have time, wants it to have impact (of course, also wants it to make huge bucks),” Diane Blair wrote at the time.
白宫时期，他们在财务上的担忧得到了缓解。希拉里·克林顿以第一夫人的身份写了一本书《举全村之力》(It Takes a Village)。她没有收预付款，而且把收益捐给了慈善机构。“希拉里·罗姆德·克林顿坚称自己以后会有时间，她希望这本书能产生影响（当然，也希望它能大卖），”黛安·布莱尔当时写道。
Still, the couple’s earlier financial decisions resurfaced in damaging ways. What started as an investigation into the Whitewater investment spun into revelations of Bill Clinton’s relationship with a White House intern, which led to the president’s impeachment by the House of Representatives.
不过，这对夫妇早先做出的一些财务决策重新浮出水面，带来破坏性的影响。那项最初针对白水投资的调查，后来演变成对比尔·克林顿与一名白宫实习生关系的披露，进而导致这位总统遭到众议院弹劾。
When the Clintons left the White House in 2000 — the first time they were without the safety net of public office in 18 years — they owed $5 million in legal fees and once again felt financial uncertainty. In 2014, Hillary Clinton described her family’s situation at the time in words that have bedeviled her candidacy: “Dead broke.”
到2000年克林顿夫妇离开白宫时——18年里第一次脱离公职人员的福利保障——他们欠了500万美元律师费，又一次感到财务的不稳定。2014年，希拉里·克林顿将她当时的家庭状况描述为“彻底破产”。这个字眼给她的竞选持续带来困扰。
Once again, the Clintons needed a house, and once again they turned to the help of a wealthy friend. This time it was Terry McAuliffe, a longtime Clinton campaign fundraiser, who offered to guarantee the mortgage on the home they would move into after leaving the White House.
又一次，克林顿一家陷入了需要一座房子的境地，他们也再次向一位有钱的朋友寻求帮助。这一次，长期为克林顿的竞选活动筹集资金的特里·麦考利夫(Terry McAuliffe)为他们在离开白宫后搬入的房子提供了贷款担保。
But this time, the home — a $1.7 million, 11-room Dutch Colonial in the tony suburb of Chappaqua, New York — was not one of the smallest houses on the block. Hillary Clinton did not have to call the Roto-Rooter every time the old pipes clogged, or run to a neighbor’s house to borrow milk and eggs, as she had done in the house on Midland Street.
但是这一次，这栋住宅不是社区内最小的房子之一，而是一座有11个房间的荷兰殖民风格建筑，位于纽约州的上等郊区查帕瓜，价值170万美元。希拉里·克林顿不再需要像在米德兰街时那样，在老旧管道发生堵塞的时候，打电话给下水道清洁服务公司Roto-Rooter，也不需要跑到邻居家借牛奶和鸡蛋。
And now it was Hillary Clinton, eyeing a Senate seat from New York, who left her husband at home as she hit the road, crisscrossing the state for her campaign.
那时，是盯着纽约州联邦参议员席位的希拉里·克林顿把丈夫留在家里，而她本人为了自己的竞选活动在州里各处奔波。