Losing sleep tends to make people eat more and gain weight, and now a new study suggests that one reason may be the impact that sleep deprivation has on the brain.
睡眠不足容易使人食量增大、体重增加。现在，一项新研究表明，其原因之一可能在于缺觉可对大脑造成影响。
The research showed that depriving people of sleep for one night created pronounced changes in the way their brains responded to high-calorie junk foods. On days when the subjects had not had proper sleep, fattening foods like potato chips and sweets stimulated stronger responses in a part of the brain that helps govern the motivation to eat. But at the same time, the subjects experienced a sharp reduction in activity in the frontal cortex, a higher-level part of the brain where consequences are weighed and rational decisions are made.
该研究显示，一夜未眠可显著改变人脑对高热量垃圾食品的应答。如果受试者未获得适当的睡眠，在薯片和糖果等容易使人发胖的食物的刺激下，他们脑部协助管理进食冲动的部位会产生较强的应答。与此同时，其额叶皮层的活动却大幅减少，而该区域是脑部负责对后果进行权衡并做出理性决策的高级区域。
The findings suggested that one unfortunate result of sleep loss is this “double hit” in brain activity, said Matthew P. Walker, an author of the study and a professor of psychology and neuroscience at the University of California, Berkeley. A sleepy brain appears to not only respond more strongly to junk food, but also has less ability to rein that impulse in.
该研究的作者，加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的心理学和神经科学教授马修·P·沃克(Matthew P. Walker)指出，这些研究结果表明，睡眠不足的一个不良影响是对大脑活动造成了“双重打击”。昏昏欲睡的大脑不仅对垃圾食品应答较为强烈，其遏制此类进食冲动的能力也较差。
Some experts have theorized that in a sleep-deprived state, people eat more food simply to make up for all the calories they expend as they burn the midnight oil. But the new study showed that the changes in brain activity were evident even when the subjects were fed extra food and not experiencing any increased sensations in hunger.
一些专家推测，处于缺觉状态的人食量增加只是为了补偿他们挑灯夜战所消耗的热量。但这项新研究表明，即使在受试者已摄取了超量的食物，饥饿感未有任何增加之时，其大脑活动的变化也十分明显。
“Their hunger was no different when they were sleep deprived and when they had a normal night of sleep,” Dr. Walker said. “That’s important because it suggests that the changes we’re seeing are caused by sleep deprivation itself, rather than simply being perhaps more metabolically impaired when you’re sleep deprived.”
“无论受试者是处于缺觉状态中，还是享受正常的一夜安睡时，他们的饥饿感并无差异，”沃克博士说，“这一点非常重要，因为它表明，我们所观察到的改变是由缺觉本身所引起，而非单纯是缺觉状态下存在较大代谢障碍的结果。”
The relationship between sleep loss and weight gain is a strong one, borne out in a variety of studies over the years. Large population studies show that both adults and children are more likely to be overweight and obese the less they sleep at night. In smaller, controlled studies, scientists find that when people are allowed to sleep eight hours one night and then half that amount on another, they end up eating more on the days when they’ve had less sleep. One pivotal study at the University of Colorado in March showed that losing just a few hours of sleep a few nights in a row caused people to pack on an average of about two pounds.
过去数年来的众多研究证明，睡眠不足和体重增加呈强相关。大型人群研究显示，当夜间睡眠不足时，成人和儿童均更容易体重超重和肥胖。在小型对照研究中，科学家们发现，如果允许受试者第一晚睡八小时，但第二晚只让他们睡四小时，那么，睡眠不足的那天他们的食量就比较大。此外，3月在美国科罗拉多大学(University of Colorado)进行的一项关键研究表明，若是人们接连几天睡眠不足（每夜都少睡几小时），即可导致他们体重平均增重约两磅（约0.91千克）。
Other studies have found that the underlying effects of sleep deprivation on the body can in many ways be pronounced. The stress hormone cortisol climbs and markers of inflammation rise. Hormones that stimulate appetite increase, while hormones that blunt it drop. People become less sensitive to insulin, raising their risk of Type 2 diabetes.
其他研究也发现，缺觉对人体的潜在效应在诸多方面均有明显体现。应激激素皮质醇和炎症标志物的水平都有所上升。可刺激食欲的激素增加，而可削弱食欲的激素则减少。人们对胰岛素的敏感性降低，这增加了他们患II型糖尿病的风险。
But until now, few if any studies have looked at precisely what goes on in the brain when people are starved of sleep and then faced with food decisions.
但迄今为止，很少有研究对人在缺乏睡眠并面临食物相关决策时大脑的活动情况进行过严谨的探讨。
In the new study, which was published in the journal Nature Communications, Dr. Walker and his colleagues recruited 23 healthy men and women and assigned them to two different regimes, each separated by about a week. On one occasion, the subjects came into the lab and got a normal night of rest – roughly eight hours – before waking up to a small breakfast of toast and strawberry jam.
在这项发表于《自然：通讯》杂志(Nature Communications)上的新研究中，沃克博士和他的同事们招募了23名健康的男性和女性，并将他们分配入两个不同的方案，各方案之间约相隔一周。在其中一个方案中，受试者进入实验室，接受一夜正常休息（约八小时），并在起床后食用吐司面包和草莓酱作为简单的早餐。
The subjects then looked at 80 pictures of a variety of foods and were asked to rate how strongly they wanted them while an imaging machine measured brain activity. The subjects were told that after looking through the pictures, they would receive one of the foods that they rated the highest.
然后，受试者们观看了80张不同食物的照片，并评定了他们对这些食物的渴求程度，与此同时，成像仪测定了他们的大脑活动。研究人员告知受试者，在浏览这些图片之后，他们将获得他们最想吃的一种食物。
On another occasion, the subjects followed the same routine, but this time, instead of sleeping, they stayed awake through the night. They were also given snacks – like apples and peanut butter crackers – to offset any extra calories that they burned while staying awake.
另一个方案遵循同样的套路，但这一次，受试者们不能睡觉，只能通宵熬夜。不过，他们获得了苹果和花生酱饼干等零食，以补充在熬夜时多消耗的热量。
The research showed that when the subjects were bleary-eyed and sleep-deprived, they strongly preferred the food choices that were highest in calories, like desserts, chocolate and potato chips. The sleepier they felt, the more they wanted the calorie-rich foods. In fact, the foods they requested when they were sleep deprived added up to about 600 calories more than the foods that they wanted when they were well rested.
研究表明，当受试者睡眼惺忪，处在缺觉状态中时，他们极度偏爱热量最高的食物，如甜点、巧克力和薯片等。越是感到困倦，他们就越想吃热量丰富的食物。实际上，与得到良好休息时相比，在缺觉时受试者们选择的食物所含的热量大约要高出600卡路里。
At the same time, brain scans showed that on the morning after the subjects’ sleepless night, the heavily caloric foods produced intense activity in an almond-shaped structure called the amygdala, which helps regulate basic emotions as well as our desires for things like food and experiences. That was accompanied by sharply reduced responses in cortical areas of the frontal lobe that regulate decision-making, providing top down control of the amygdala and other primitive brain structures.
同时，脑部扫描显示，在不眠之夜后的早晨，高热量食物可使杏仁核显著活跃，该脑部结构形似杏仁，有助于调节基本情绪，以及我们对食物和体验等的欲望。这一变化伴随着额叶皮层区域反应的锐减，而额叶主要负责调控决策，并自上而下地控制杏仁核和其他较为原始的大脑结构。
One expert who was not involved in the new study, Dr. Kenneth P. Wright Jr., called the findings exciting and said that they help explain why people make poor dietary choices and eat much more than they need to when fatigued.
未参与这项新研究的专家，小肯尼思·P·赖特博士(Dr. Kenneth P. Wright Jr.)认为这项研究结果令人振奋，并称其有助于解释为何人们在疲劳时往往会做出不健康的饮食选择，吃下比需求量多得多的食物。
“There’s something that changes in our brain when we’re sleepy that’s irrespective of how much energy we need,” said Dr. Wright, the director of the sleep and chronobiology lab at the University of Colorado at Boulder. “The brain wants more even when the energy need has been fulfilled.”
“在我们感到困倦的时候，脑中发生了某些变化，且这与我们需要多少能量无关，”科罗拉多大学波尔得分校(University of Colorado at Boulder)睡眠与生物钟实验室的主任赖特博士说，“即使身体的能量需求已获得满足，大脑却仍然贪得无厌。”
But why would a lack of sleep disrupt the brain response to food?
但是，为什么缺乏睡眠会扰乱大脑对食物的应答？
Dr. Walker said he suspected that one factor that plays a role is a substance called adenosine, a metabolic byproduct that disrupts neural function and promotes sleepiness as it accumulates in the brain. One of the ways that caffeine stimulates wakefulness is by blocking adenosine. Adenosine is also cleared from the system when we sleep.
沃克博士表示，他推测在其中发挥重要作用的一个因素是一种名为腺苷的物质。这是一种代谢副产物，当它在脑部积聚时，可扰乱神经功能，促进睡意。咖啡因刺激觉醒的途径之一就是阻断腺苷的作用。当我们睡觉时，腺苷会从机体中清除。
Without enough rest, adenosine builds up and may start to degrade communication between networks in the brain, Dr. Walker said. Getting sleep may be the equivalent of rebooting the brain.
沃克博士说，如果没有经过充足的休息，腺苷积聚，就可能开始下调脑部网络之间的通讯。而入睡就相当于让大脑重新启动。
“I think you have about 16 hours of optimal functioning before the brain needs to go offline and sleep,” he said. “If you go beyond these 16 hours into the realm of sleep deprivation, then those brain networks start to break down and become dysfunctional.”
“我认为，人的身体可以以理想状态工作约16小时，然后，大脑就需要‘脱机’——人需要睡觉，”他说，“如果工作时间超过了16小时，剥夺了睡眠的时间，那么脑部通讯网络就可能开始解体，并出现功能失调。”
Dr. Walker said it was increasingly clear from the medical literature that there is not a single tissue in the body that is not beneficially affected by sleep.
沃克博士表示，医学文献越来越清楚地表明，身体内的组织无一不受益于睡眠。
“It’s the single most effective thing people can do every day to reset their brain and body health,” he said.
“这是人们每天力所能及的，重新调整他们大脑和身体健康的最简单有效的方法，”他说。