ZOMBIES may be hogging the pop culture spotlight these days in “World War Z” and “The Walking Dead,” but now that the flesh-eating undead are selling Sprint cellphones in television ads, one has to wonder: have they finally jumped the shark as the monster of the moment?
随着《僵尸世界大战》(World War Z)和《行尸走肉》(The Walking Dead)上映，最近僵尸在流行文化中抢尽风头，但如今这些吃人肉的不死一族已经开始在Sprint公司的电视广告里卖手机了，人们不禁要想：它们是不是到头来也终于掉进了“过气怪物”的行列？
Well, there’s a new wave of evildoers waiting to step in: cannibals.
好吧，一大波新的坏家伙正等着接班呢——食人族。
At the Toronto International Film Festival in September, Eli Roth’s hungry-savages film, “The Green Inferno,” and Manuel Martín Cuenca’s dark love story “Cannibal” played to gore-loving crowds. Other releases this fall include “Butcher Boys,” an urban thriller based on Jonathan Swift’s satirical 18th-century essay “A Modest Proposal”; “The Colony,” about flesh-eating survivors of an apocalyptic attack; “We Are What We Are,” about a father and his cannibal children; the German-language “Cannibal Diner,” with young women on the menu; and “Evil Feed,” a comedy about a restaurant that serves the body parts of losing participants in an underground fighting ring.
在9月的多伦多国际电影节上，热衷流血场面的观众们观赏到了伊莱·罗斯(Eli Roth)的饥饿野蛮人电影《绿色地狱》(The Green Inferno)和曼纽尔·马丁·昆卡(Manuel Martín Cuenca)的黑暗爱情故事《食人恋》(Cannibal)。今年秋天发行的影片还有《血光重现》(Butcher Boys)，这是一部根据约拿森·斯威夫特(Jonathan Swift)18世纪讽刺文章《谦逊的提议》(A Modest Proposal)改编的都市惊悚片；《末世殖民地》(The Colony)，讲述世界末日的幸存者吃人肉的故事；《吾辈本如斯》(We Are What We Are)是关于一个父亲和他的食人族子女的故事；德语电影《食人晚餐》(Cannibal Diner)讲的是年轻女人被吃的故事；还有《邪恶食物》(Evil Feed)，这是一部喜剧片，讲的是一个饭馆专门用地下搏击场上失败者的身体做菜。
On the small screen, NBC’s crime drama “Hannibal,” based on Thomas Harris’s notorious flesh muncher Hannibal Lecter, will return for a second season. And two plays (both closing this weekend) brought cannibalism to the stage: In New York, “feeling” told the story of a woman who talks with Jeffrey Dahmer; in Minneapolis, “Kung Fu Zombies vs. Cannibals” took a comic-book approach to the subject.
在电视方面，NBC的犯罪剧《汉尼拔》(Hannibal)第二季即将回归，该剧是根据托马斯·哈里斯(Thomas Harris)笔下恶名昭彰的食人魔汉尼拔·莱科特(Hannibal Lecter)的故事改编。另外还有两部舞台剧（都将在本周末结束）把食人这个主题搬上舞台——纽约的《情感》(feeling)，讲述一个和杰弗里·达默（Jeffrey Dahmer——著名食人医生和连环杀手，被认为是汉尼拔在生活中的原型——译注）交谈的女人的故事；以及明尼阿波利斯的《功夫僵尸大战食人族》(Kung Fu Zombies vs. Cannibals)，为这个题材带来了一点漫画的感觉。
So what’s behind this burst of fascination with flesh eating?
那么，这阵食人狂热大爆发的背后究竟是什么呢？
For Mr. Roth, the director of “Hostel” and an expert on pushing the boundaries of horror, the fear of cannibals “is not just having your own flesh devoured, but that you would have a taste for another person’s flesh. It’s a primal feeling.”
罗斯曾执导《人皮客栈》(Hostel)，也是挑战恐怖极限的专家，他认为食人族的恐怖之处“不仅在于你自己的肉体被吞噬，也在于你也有可能去品尝人肉的滋味。这是一种原始的感觉”。
The tag line for “The Green Inferno,” showing on Nov. 2 as part of the Film Society of Lincoln Center’s Scary Movies series, is, “The only thing more terrifying than Mother Nature is human nature.”
《绿色地狱》将于11月2日在林肯中心电影协会组织的“恐怖电影”系列上映，它的宣传语是：“唯一比大自然的天性更为恐怖的是人类的天性。”
Gunnar Hansen, who played the weapon-wielding Leatherface in “The Texas Chainsaw Massacre” (1974), a pioneering foray into cannibalistic terrain, sees it as a sign of the times, just as the cold war gave rise to fever dreams of space invaders and Vietnam ushered in a modern zombie era with “Night of the Living Dead.”
贡纳·汉森(Gunnar Hansen)曾在1974年的《得州电锯杀人狂》(The Texas Chainsaw Massacre)中饰演挥动武器的“皮脸”，这个人物是闯入食人世界的先驱，被视为那个时代的一种象征；正如冷战令外星入侵题材红极一时，越战则通过《活死人之夜》(Night of the Living Dead)开启了一个现代僵尸时代。
“You can look at the economy and say the past is about to bite us literally and figuratively,” said Mr. Hansen, whose new memoir is called “Chain Saw Confidential.” “We are at the point where a new generation has nothing to look forward to.”
 “看看当今的经济，过去的一切即将反噬我们，从字面意义还是比喻意义上来说都是如此，”汉森说，他的新回忆录名叫《电锯秘闻》(Chain Saw Confidential)。“在我们如今所处的时代，新的一代已经没什么可期待的了。”
Or perhaps there’s something more visceral at work. Another early favorite of horror cognoscenti — and an inspiration for Mr. Roth’s “Green Inferno” — is Ruggero Deodato’s “Cannibal Holocaust” (1980), about a documentary crew that’s attacked by the flesh-eating tribe they are filming in the Amazon. Its depiction of real-life animal slaughter, which still shocks today, suggests a weird affinity with today’s animal-rights’ movement.
这些影片中或许还有更直指人心的东西。鲁杰罗·达奥德托(Ruggero Deodato)导演的《人食人实录》(Cannibal Holocaust, 1980)是恐怖片资深爱好者们的最爱的早期经典之一，也是罗斯《绿色地狱》的灵感来源，讲述一个纪录片剧组去亚马逊拍摄食人部落，结果受到袭击。它实景拍摄了屠杀动物的场面，到如今依然令人震撼，与如今的动物权利保护运动有着奇异的密切关系。
“People rarely think of steak or fried chicken as consuming a dead thing,” said Tim Kelly, who writes about the cannibal genre for Cinematallica.com. “Cannibals force you to confront something you don’t want to understand, which is the truth of what you are consuming.”
 “人们在吃牛排和炸鸡的时候，很少会想到他们是在吃尸体，”蒂姆·凯利(Tim Kelly)在为Cinematallica.com撰写的食人类型电影评论中说：“食人题材迫使你去面对自己不愿去理解的事实，也就是你所吃下的食品的真相。”
Then again, maybe it was just a matter of time before pop culture caught up with real-life reports of cannibalism, like the case of a New York police officer who was convicted in March for a plot to kill and eat women.
关于人吃人的现场报道或许早晚有一天会进入流行文化，比如3月就有这样一个案例：一名纽约警员因为谋划杀害并吃掉女人而被判有罪。
And there’s always the possibility of shock fatigue. “Ten years ago nobody would laugh at a movie about eating people,” said Aaron Au, a co-writer of “Evil Feed.” “But the zombie genre desensitized us to be accepting of it.”
审美疲劳的可能性也一直存在。“10年前，没有人会嘲笑一部关于人吃人的电影，”《邪恶食物》的编剧之一亚伦·奥(Aaron Au)说，“但如今僵尸类电影让我们不再那么敏感，可以接受它了。”
On another, even creepier, level, what sets cannibals apart from zombies may simply be their humanity. As Kimani Ray Smith, the director of “Evil Feed,” put it: “A cannibal’s just a smarter zombie. You need more cunning to get away with being a cannibal. But cannibals still have day-to-day problems. They still have to pay the rent.”
在另一个更加颓废的层面上，食人者和僵尸不一样，或许只是因为食人者具有人性。《邪恶事物》的导演吉玛尼·雷·史密斯(Kimani Ray Smith)说：“食人者不过是更聪明的僵尸。你得更加狡猾，才能做得成食人者。但食人者仍然有自己日常生活中的问题。他们还是得交房租。”