RANERI, India — In this tiny village almost 400 miles southwest of New Delhi, where women wash dishes in the sand to conserve water, and electricity is scarce, Lakha Khan sat on the floor of a stone hut, legs crossed and white turban in place. There he coaxed a bright, high-pitched, dizzyingly fast melody from his violinlike sarangi.
印度拉内里——在这个位于新德里西南约640公里的小村里，妇女为了省水用沙子洗盘子，电力也很缺乏。拉卡汗(Lakha Khan)双腿交叉盘坐在石屋的地上，头上戴着整齐的白头巾，在他那类似小提琴的沙兰吉琴上弹出欢快、尖细、快得有些让人眩晕的旋律。 
Mr. Khan, 66, who is known as Lakha or Lakhaji (ji at the end of a name is a sign of respect in India), is one of the few remaining Sindhi sarangi players among the Manganiyars, a caste of hereditary Muslim musicians who live in this desert state of Rajasthan. He plays for hours — until black beetles falling from the ceiling indicate nighttime — usually with no more company than a couple of passing goats. But on a recent afternoon he had an audience of two: Ashutosh Sharma and Ankur Malhotra, who were crouching over their gear, including a five-channel mixer and two analog recorders. They placed some of their seven microphones on towels to absorb the noise of the flour mill across the street.
66岁的拉卡汗也被称作拉卡或拉卡吉(Lakhaji)（在印度，在人名后面加“吉”是表示尊敬的意思）。他是曼加尼亚乐师中少数几位仍健在的信德族沙兰吉琴演奏师之一。他们是一群世代相传的穆斯林乐师，居住在有大片沙漠的拉贾斯坦邦。他一弹就是几个小时，直到黑色的甲虫从天花板上掉下来——这意味着天黑了——而陪伴他的通常只是路过这里的几只山羊。但在前不久的一个下午，他有了两名听众：阿舒托什·夏尔马 (Ashutosh Sharma) 和安库尔·马尔霍特拉(Ankur Malhotra)。他们摆弄着带来的设备，包括一个五声道混音器和两台模拟式录音机，还有七个麦克风。他们把其中几个麦克风放在毛巾上，以吸收从街对面的面粉厂传来的噪音。
“There’s an exuberance or just kind of a lack of inhibition when they’re performing at home,” Mr. Malhotra said of the Manganiyars, whose music is a mix of traditional melodies and arresting vocals. “Here these performances are genuine and real and filled with emotion.”
马尔霍特拉在说起曼加尼亚乐师时表示，“他们在家里演奏时，感情奔放，不受压抑。”他们的音乐中，既有传统旋律，又有扣人心弦的吟唱。“在这里，他们的演奏真诚而又真实，充满感情。”
Mr. Sharma and Mr. Malhotra, both 37, said they want to preserve the music of the Manganiyars, whose songs — devotionals as well as stories of births, deaths and love, often about the Hindu families that are their patrons — have no written record. The two men said they were inspired by Alan Lomax, the musicologist who more than half a century ago traveled the American South recording previously unknown blues musicians.
同为37岁的夏尔马和马尔霍特拉表示，他们想把曼加尼亚乐师的音乐保存下来。这些歌曲中有宗教歌曲，也有讲述有关生死和爱情故事的（往往是关于照顾他们的印度教教徒家庭的），但都没有书面记录。两人说，他们受到音乐学者艾伦·洛马克斯(Alan Lomax)的启发。半个多世纪前，洛马克斯遍游美国南部，录下了先前不为人知的蓝调音乐家的演奏。 
And like Lomax they hope to preserve the music and to bring it to a wider audience through a small, independent record label they began with two friends, called Amarrass Records. Yet they realize that trying to popularize Manganiyar music is a daunting task in India, where most young people would rather download Bollywood ringtones than listen to an ancient folk music.
像洛马克斯一样，他们希望能把这些音乐保存下来，并通过阿马拉斯唱片公司(Amarrass Records)让更多人听到。这是一家小型的独立唱片公司，是他们与另外两位友人一起创办的。然而，他们意识到，在印度推广曼加尼亚乐师的音乐是一项艰巨的任务，因为大多数年轻人宁愿下载宝莱坞的手机铃声，也不愿意聆听古老的民间音乐。
Mr. Malhotra and Mr. Sharma are undeterred. They grew up in New Delhi, listening to Sufi and Hindi music. As they got older they turned to Western rock, and as Mr. Sharma began to explore the music that had influenced such rock acts, his interest eventually lead him to Lomax.
马尔霍特拉和夏尔马没被困难吓到。他们在新德里长大，听的是苏菲音乐和印度音乐。随着年龄的增长，他们开始听西方的摇滚乐。随着夏尔马开始探索对摇滚音乐产生影响的蓝调音乐，他的兴趣最终把他引向了洛马克斯。
Mr. Sharma had begun a travel agency in New Delhi (it handles many foreign journalists in India, including some who work for The New York Times). Mr. Malhotra moved to the United States, earned an M.B.A. and created an education technology start-up. But the two men became “fed up,” as Mr. Sharma put it, by the lack of music in their lives, and they began talking about starting a label. Not long afterward Mr. Sharma showed up at a rehearsal in New Delhi of the “Manganiyar Seduction,” a theater show with roughly 40 Manganiyars that was about to go on tour outside India. His agency had been handling travel for the show, and when he went to drop off plane tickets, he recalls being blown away by the music. He called Mr. Malhotra in Wisconsin and had him listen to the performance over the phone.
此前夏尔马在新德里开设了一家旅行社（这家旅行社接待的游客包括很多驻印度的外国记者，包括一些为《纽约时报》工作的记者），而马尔霍特拉则去了美国，获得了工商管理硕士学位，然后创办了一家教育科技公司。但据夏尔马表示，因为生活中没有音乐，他们变得“厌倦”了。于是两人开始商量创办一家唱片公司。不久后，夏尔马出现在新德里《曼加尼亚的诱惑》(Manganiyar Seduction)的彩排现场。这是一部约有40名曼加尼亚乐师参加的歌舞剧，当时正要去国外巡演，而整个乐团的旅行正是由夏尔马的旅行社安排的。他回忆说，当他去送飞机票时，他被彩排现场的音乐震撼了。他打电话给身在威斯康辛州的马尔霍特拉，让他通过电话听现场演奏。
“The 40 of them singing and performing in a room, there’s no way you can’t feel that,” Mr. Malhotra said. After finding limited recordings of Manganiyar music, they decided to make their own and approached the theater director about recording the show on vinyl. He agreed. The show led the two to thinking about making field recordings.
“40名乐师在一个房间里表演，你不可能感觉不到，”马尔霍特拉说。在发现曼加尼亚乐师灌制的唱片相当有限后，他们决定自己来录制，并找到歌舞剧的导演，提出把整场演出录制到黑胶唱片上。导演同意了。这部歌舞剧促使两人考虑制作现场录音。
“There was this curiosity about these rock stars,” Mr. Sharma said. “Their two-minute piece is so good, what do they practice in their lives, what do they play?”
“我们对这些明星很好奇，”夏尔马说。“他们的两分钟表演这么棒，那他们在平时练习什么，弹什么音乐呢？”
Several months later they traveled to Rajasthan, where they auditioned Manganiyars. They then drove down desert roads for hours to get to Raneri, where they met Lakhaji. They arrived at his home around 8 at night, exhausted.
几个月后，他们去了拉贾斯坦，在那里对曼加尼亚乐师进行了面试。随后，他们沿着沙漠公路开了好几个小时，来到拉内里，在这里见到拉卡吉。晚上8点到达拉卡吉家时，两人已精疲力尽。
“Then he picks up the sarangi and starts playing, and it just changes the mood,” Mr. Malhotra said. “We were there for an hour, and it was a beautiful session, just the three of us. It was such a moving experience.”
“然后他就拿起了沙兰吉琴，开始演奏，一下子改变了我们的心情，”马尔霍特拉说。“我们在那里呆了一个小时，那段时间非常美好，只有我们三个人。那次经历太让人感动了。”
Last year Amarrass put on its first music festival in New Delhi, but couldn't fill the auditorium and lost about a quarter of the roughly $70,000 it spent on the show. The label has released two compilations of field recordings, which, along with the “Manganiyar Seduction” album, have sold around 3,000 copies, not enough to break even.
去年，阿马拉斯唱片公司在新德里举办了首届音乐节，但观众席没坐满。他们为这次演出投入大约7万美元，结果亏损约四分之一。这家唱片公司已经发行了两张现场录音的汇编唱片。这两张唱片连同《曼加尼亚的诱惑》总共卖出大概3000张，尚不足以收回成本。 
Roysten Abel, the director of “Manganiyar Seduction,” which was presented at Lincoln Center two years ago, said Mr. Sharma and Mr. Malhotra will have to make the music more contemporary, as he has done with his show, if they want to popularize it. “That’s the only way India will go international,” he said.
两年前，《曼加尼亚的诱惑》在纽约林肯中心(Lincoln Center)上演。这部剧的导演罗伊斯顿·埃比勒(Roysten Abel)表示，夏尔马和马尔霍特拉如果想推广曼加尼亚乐师的音乐，就得像他在《曼加尼亚的诱惑》里所做的那样，让这类音乐更有当代特色。“印度要想走向全球，这是唯一的出路，”他说。
Mr. Sharma agrees that concessions to modernization are necessary. While on location he and his partner shoot video of the musicians that they upload to their Web site. Mr. Malhotra, a D.J., recently had a show in New Delhi in which he mixed electronic music with that of the Manganiyars.
夏尔马同意有必要向现代化做出让步。在现场录制音乐时，他和他的搭档拍摄音乐家的视频，并将其上传到他们的网站。前不久，身为DJ的马尔霍特拉在新德里进行了一场演出，把曼加尼亚乐师的音乐与电子音乐结合在一起。 
Mr. Sharma and Mr. Malhotra said that no matter how long they sit in desert villages listening to aging masters, a valuable part of the centuries-old tradition will inevitably be lost. “They are keepers of the oral tradition, along with their own history,” Mr. Malhotra said. “It’s all in their own heads. And 20 percent gets lost in a generation.”
夏尔马和马尔霍特拉表示，不管他们花多少时间坐在沙漠地带的村子里听那些年迈的大师演奏，这个有着千百年历史的传统还是会不可避免地丢失宝贵的一部分。“他们是口述传统乃至族群历史的传承者，”马尔霍特拉说。“一切都在他们的脑海里。每过一代人，就会丢失20%。”