KIEV, Ukraine — Holding an election amid threats of invasion and sabotage by fifth-column separatists is the most severe test a democracy can endure. But as President Abraham Lincoln said, facing re-election in 1864 while America’s Civil War still raged, “We cannot have free government without elections; and if the rebellion could force us to forgo, or postpone, a national election, it might fairly claim to have already conquered and ruined us.”
乌克兰基辅——在“第五纵队”分离势力威胁要开展袭击和破坏时举行选举，对于任何一个民主制度而言，都是最严峻的考验。但是，正如亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)总统于1864年美国内战正酣时所说，“没有选举就没有自由的政府；如果叛军能迫使我们放弃或推迟全国大选，它或许就可以宣称，已经战胜并打垮了我们。”林肯当时面临着竞选连任。
Like Lincoln, we Ukrainians are resolved to go to the polls to choose a new president, in defiance of every threat. We will not grant victory to those who would discredit and dismember our country by allowing the May 25 vote to be canceled. Our election must go ahead if only to prove that the 100 and more men and women who died for our liberty in the protests around Maidan, Kiev’s Independence Square, did not die in vain.
与林肯一样，我们乌克兰人也下定决心要前往投票点，选举一位新总统，无论面临着怎样的威胁。我们不会允许取消5月25日的投票，那就等于把胜利拱手让给了想让国家蒙羞、乃至分裂的人。有100多人在基辅独立广场周边举行的抗议活动中丧生，哪怕只是为了证明这些为我们争取自由的人没有白白牺牲，选举也必须如期进行。
We will brave every obstacle to vote, for we are determined to confound President Vladimir V. Putin’s efforts to transform our democratic country into a Russian vassal state.
我们将勇敢面对选举过程中的每个障碍，因为我们已经决心要挫败弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)把民主的乌克兰变成俄罗斯附属国的行为。
No one should doubt that Mr. Putin’s primary aim is to hollow out our democracy. But Americans, and free people everywhere, must not be deceived by Russia’s aggression, or by Mr. Putin’s current peace offensive.
没人应该怀疑，普京的首要目的就是挖空我们的民主。但是美国人，以及世界各地享有自由的人都不应该被俄罗斯的侵犯，或普京目前的和平攻势所蒙蔽。
The separatist cause fomented by Russia would never win on its merits in any free and fair vote of Ukrainians, as a recent Pew Research Center poll has confirmed. Russia’s separatist mafia can win only sham elections of the type that Mr. Putin has imposed on Russia since he came to power 14 years ago, and which he recently forced upon our fellow citizens, now hostages, in Crimea.
如果乌克兰能开展自由、公正的投票，那么俄罗斯挑拨起的分离主义运动就绝不会取得成功，皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)最近一项调查也肯定了这一点。俄罗斯主使的分离派黑帮只能赢得虚假的选举——自普京于14年前掌权以来，就开始在俄罗斯强推这种选举。他最近还把这种投票强加给了我们在克里米亚的同胞公民，如今他们已经被劫持。
The lie Mr. Putin is peddling is that Slavs constitute a special culture that requires the rule of a strong man, and that European and democratic ideals, and the tolerance of minorities that comes with them, are antipathetic to that culture. The best possible rebuke to that falsehood is a successful Ukrainian democracy linked to Europe.
普京正在兜售这样一则谎言：斯拉夫人组成了一种需要强人统治的特殊文化，而欧洲的理想、民主的理念，以及随之而来的对少数群体的包容，与前述文化是格格不入的。对这个谎言最好的反驳，就是在乌克兰建立一个与欧洲相联结的、成功的民主制度。
Ukraine’s liberty is a mortal threat to the authoritarian, state-capitalist system that Mr. Putin has unleashed on Russia’s citizens. If Ukrainians, who are also Slavs, can build an open society and a free economy, as we are determined to do, then ordinary Russians may recognize the scale of the liberties and the economic opportunities that have been stolen from them under Mr. Putin’s misrule.
普京对俄罗斯公民实施了威权的国家资本主义体制，乌克兰的自由对这种体制是一种致命的威胁。我们已经下定决心构建开放的社会和自由的经济——如果同属斯拉夫民族的乌克兰能做到，那么普通俄罗斯人可能就会认识到，在普京的恶政之下，他们有多少自由和经济机遇被偷走了。
Of course, Ukrainians’ trust in their government has been shattered by the growing realization of former President Viktor F. Yanukovych’s corruption, and of his stealthy collaboration with Russia in undermining Ukraine’s sovereignty. But our trust in one another has never been higher.
当然，因为有越来越多的人认识到了前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的腐败，以及他与俄罗斯沆瀣一气、损害乌克兰主权的行为，乌克兰人对政府的信任目前也岌岌可危。但是，我们对彼此的信任却达到了前所未有的高度。
The spirit of resistance has kindled a new national consciousness across the country, east and west, north and south. It is this spirit, not one of vengeance, that we must keep alive in the days ahead.
抵抗的精神在全国各地，不论东西南北，燃起了一种新的国民意识。在未来的日子里，我们要维持这种精神，而不是复仇的念头。
If we do, Ukrainians will secure the democracy and the European future to which they have shown such extraordinary devotion. We can eliminate corruption and cut down the bureaucratic maze that stifles the entrepreneurial spirit of our people. We can embrace a modern educational system, not the hidebound Soviet-style ways that still prevail in too many of our classrooms.
如果我们能做到，乌克兰人就能享有民主制度，以及面向欧洲的未来。他们对这种理想已经表现出了超乎寻常的热忱。我们可以消除腐败，简化错综复杂的官僚制度——它们都制约了乌克兰人的创业精神。我们可以采用现代的教育体系，而不是乌克兰学校里仍然大量存在的苏联式陈旧体制。
We know that we must man the barricades of freedom ourselves if Ukraine is to remain free. But there is much that America and Europe can do to help, short of sending soldiers to fight. As Winston Churchill wrote to Franklin D. Roosevelt during the darkest months of World War II, when Britain stood alone against Nazism: “Give us the tools, and we will finish the job.” The consequences of allowing Ukraine to be plundered and divided in the name of Mr. Putin’s imperial ambitions are too dire to contemplate.
我们知道，要想让乌克兰保持自由，我们就必须自己去守卫自由的堡垒。但是除了派士兵参战之外，美国和欧洲还有很多可以帮助我们的方法。在二战最黑暗的岁月里，温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)曾写信给富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)，当时英国正在独自对抗纳粹：“把工具给我们，我们就能把活干完。”如果在普京帝国主义野心的驱使之下，乌克兰受到劫掠并发生分裂，那将是无法想象的惨痛景象。