With its 10th anniversary approaching in December, the Berghain — Berlin’s most famous electronic music institution — is kicking things off tonight with a fine art prelude to a series of upcoming house- and techno-fueled celebrations. Titled simply “10,” the show takes place at the Halle, a vast section of the converted neoclassical power plant just beyond the dance floor that is open only on special occasions. Each work in “10″ interprets the trinity of music, clubbing and debauchery in relation to Berghain’s potent architecture.
柏林最著名的电音俱乐部Berghain将于12月迎来十周年生日，今晚（2014年8月7日——译注）它以一场美术展拉开了一系列以house和techno音乐为伴奏的庆典。这场展览的名字很简单，就是“10”，它在哈雷(Halle)举办，哈雷是这个经过改造的新古典主义风格电厂的一大部分，在舞池另一侧，只在特殊场合开放。“10”的每一件作品都阐释了与Berghain的强势建筑相关的音乐、俱乐部和放纵三位一体的概念。
Contemporary art has always played an important role in Berghain’s identity: Works by Piotr Nathan are mounted on an entire wall of the club’s ground floor, Joseph Marr’s sculptures are installed under the counter of a glass bar and Wolfgang Tillmans’s large-scale photographs hang in the club’s offshoot Panorama Bar. What’s more, many of Berghain’s staff are artists and performers, and most of the nine participating artists in the current exhibition are current or former employees; some have chosen to reflect on the relationship between the club and their own practice.
当代艺术总是在Berghain的身份认同中扮演着重要角色：彼得·南森(Piotr Nathan)的作品挂在该俱乐部一层的一整面墙上；约瑟夫·马尔(Joseph Marr)的雕塑安装在一个玻璃酒吧的柜台下面；沃尔夫冈·提尔曼斯(Wolfgang Tillmans)的大幅照片挂在该俱乐部的分店全景酒吧(Panorama Bar)里。另外，Berghain的很多员工也都是艺术家和演员，本次展览的九位参展艺术家大多是现在或以前的员工；有些艺术家选择反映该俱乐部和自己创作之间的关系。
The painter Norbert Bisky and the artist and musician Carsten Nicolai, whose experimental electronic music label Raster Noton hosts regular nights at the club, are among the more renowned names on the show’s predominantly German roster. Nicolai, pursuing his fascination with physical representations of scientific phenomena, cleverly evokes the club’s power-plant past with a subtle light installation that renders visible thermal movements of air.
参与本次展览的艺术家大多是德国人，其中较为出名的有画家诺伯特·比斯基(Norbert Bisky)和艺术家、音乐家卡斯滕·尼科莱(Carsten Nicolai)。他们的试验电子乐品牌拉斯特·诺顿(Raster Noton)定期在该俱乐部举办活动。尼科莱着迷于对科学现象的物理展示，他聪明地用微妙的灯光装置展示空气的热运动，让人想起该俱乐部的所在地曾是电厂。
Marc Brandenburg, a former Berghain barman, references the building’s present use. Based on photographs of the detritus left over from fetish parties in the men’s-only Laboratory space, the artist created intricate black-and-white pencil drawings that present free-floating motifs: a leather mask, empty Crisco cans, stainless steel toilets at the end of a long weekend. These tiny drawings are now being sold as temporary tattoos from a small kiosk inside the Halle.
马克·勃兰登堡(Marc Brandenburg)以前是Berghain的酒保，他的创作与这座建筑目前的用途有关。根据只有男人可以入内的Laboratory空间(Berghain的前身)举办的那些恋物派对所留下的照片，这位艺术家创作了复杂的黑白铅笔素描，展示自由漂浮的图案：皮制面具、空的Crisco罐子、一个漫长周末结束后的不锈钢马桶。这些小小的素描画做成了纹身贴，在哈雷的一个小报亭里有售。
Other works are grand in scale. A piece by Viron Erol Vert arranges screens, dividers and metal objects on high plinths, forming a maze not unlike the club’s notorious “dark rooms.” An installation by Sarah Schoenfeld features a large aquarium-like object filled with fluid, glimmering on the Halle’s ground level. The liquid is in fact urine, which has been collected for several months from clubgoers in large biohazard containers placed near the bathrooms. (To neutralize the odor, Schoenfeld has treated the urine with chemicals.) The fluid, because of its density and mass, gives off a deep red glow.
其他作品在规模上更宏大。维龙·埃罗尔·韦尔(Viron Erol Vert)的作品是把屏风、隔板和金属物体装在高高的基座上，形成一个迷宫，有点像该俱乐部臭名昭著的“黑房间”。莎拉·舍恩菲尔德(Sarah Schoenfeld)的装置作品在哈雷的一层，它像个很大的鱼缸，里面装满了液体，闪烁着微光。那些液体实际上是来俱乐部的人的尿液，艺术家为此在卫生间附近放置生化垃圾桶收集了好几个月（为了消除骚味，舍恩菲尔德用化学品对尿液进行了处理）。由于这种液体的浓度和质量，它发出深红色的微光。
“10″ acknowledges the many hallmarks of Berghain, from its elaborate sound system and imposing architecture and endless parties to its anti-elitist door policy, lascivious atmosphere and status in the dance music scene. But perhaps most importantly, the show pays homage to the community of artists and musicians that make the club more than just the sum of its spectacular parts.
“10”向Berghain的很多标志致意——从复杂的音响系统、壮观的建筑、无穷无尽的派对到反精英入场政策、挑动情欲的气氛、在舞曲音乐界的地位。但或许最重要的是，这场展览是在向艺术家和音乐家团体致敬，是他们让这个俱乐部不只是各个壮观部分的组合。