The Kremlin appears to be in a forgiving mood.
克里姆林宫看上去沉浸在一种宽容大度的氛围之中。
Russia recently pardoned the former oil baron turned activist Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky and other prominent critics of President Vladimir V. Putin in a move widely seen as an attempt to mollify international criticism on the eve of the Winter Olympics in Sochi. But at least one university remains tied up in a criminal inquiry connected to Mr. Khodorkovsky — and there are few signs of its abating.
俄罗斯最近特赦了前石油大亨米哈伊尔·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)以及总统弗拉基米尔·普金(Vladimir V. Putin)的其他著名反对人士，这一行为被广泛地视为是试图在索契冬奥会前夕安抚国际舆论抨击。但至少还有一所大学仍然深陷于霍多尔科夫斯基一案相关的犯罪调查中——而且目前并没有停止的迹象。
Several professors at the Higher School of Economics here are under investigation for their alleged roles in what is known as the “case of experts.” The Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation, the equivalent of the F.B.I., has accused them of illegally receiving funds to lobby on behalf of Mr. Khodorkovsky, who was convicted and imprisoned on charges of fraud and other crimes in proceedings that were widely labeled as political.
几位俄罗斯高等经济学院(Higher School of Economics)的教授正在因为其在“专家案件”中扮演的所谓角色而受到调查。俄罗斯联邦调查委员会(Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation)是与美国联邦调查局(F.B.I.)相仿的机构，它以非法接受资金为霍多尔科夫斯基奔走游说为由对他们提出指控，而霍多尔科夫斯基在这桩被普遍认为有政治意味的案件中，因诈骗和其他罪名而入狱。
The case has placed the university at the center of what some Russians see as an effort by Mr. Putin to quiet academics who speak out against government policies.
案件把这所大学推到了风口浪尖上，一些俄罗斯人认为此举表明普京想要让公开反对政府政策的学者闭嘴。
Tamara G. Morshchakova, who is head of the school’s department of judicial power and justice administration and is one of the scholars under fire, said, “The attack on us was ordered by authorities in order to threaten and mute us.”
塔玛拉·默莎科娃(Tamara G. Morshchakova)是俄罗斯高等经济学院司法权力与司法管理学院的院长，也是受到指控的学者之一，她说：“对我们的攻击是当权者授意的，为的是威胁我们，让我们噤声。”
The so-called case of experts centers on a report produced in 2011 by the Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights, a government-appointed panel of legal scholars, business leaders, workers with nongovernmental organizations, and others.
所谓专家案件的焦点是一份2011年由公民社会和人权理事会(Council for Civil Society and Human Rights)发布的报告，该理事会是一个由政府指定法律学者、商界领袖、非政府组织工作人员以及其他人士作为成员的组织。
The report, whose authors included Ms. Morshchakova, found problems with the 2010 trial of Mr. Khodorkovsky and his business partner Platon Lebedev when they were found guilty of embezzlement and money laundering. (Mr. Khodorkovsky had previously been convicted of fraud.)
这份报告指出，在2010年霍多尔科夫斯基与他的生意伙伴普拉通·列别捷夫(Platon Lebedev)被判犯有贪污与洗钱罪的审判中，存在各种问题。（霍多尔科夫斯基在此之前已被判犯有诈骗罪。）报告的执笔人之一是默莎科娃。
Not long after the report was released, Russian investigators started questioning whether those who worked on the report had indirectly received money from Mr. Khodorkovsky.
在这份报告发布后不久，俄罗斯当局的调查人员就开始质询撰写者是否间接从霍多尔科夫斯基那里收受了钱财。
In 2012, the Investigative Committee raided the Higher School of Economics’ Center for Legal and Economic Studies, which the agency accused of helping to launder money on behalf of Mr. Khodorkovsky. More recently, Ms. Morshchakova and other faculty members connected to the report or the center were taken in for questioning.
2012年，调查委员会突然查抄高等经济学院的司法与经济研究中心，并指控中心帮助霍多尔科夫斯基洗钱。而在近期，默莎科娃与其他和那份报告或者中心有关联的教职人员都被带走接受询问。
Other targets of the investigation include Mikhail A. Fedotov, a prominent law professor and director of the department on copyright and intellectual-property rights, while the Center for Legal and Economic Studies has been practically shut down by the inquiry.
调查对象还包括米哈伊尔·费多托夫(Mikhail A. Fedotov)，他是一位出色的法学教授，担任版权与知识产权学院的院长，而司法与经济研究中心则因为该调查事实上已经关闭了。
Ms. Morshchakova and the other professors, who are still working as the investigation continues, deny any wrongdoing. None of them has been charged with any crime. Ms. Morshchakova said she and her colleagues had received grants from foreign governments, but never money from people or entities connected to Mr. Khodorkovsky or to Yukos, the oil company he used to own.
调查仍在持续进行，默莎科娃和其他教授否认了所有的罪名，坚持工作。目前他们中没有人遭到起诉。默莎科娃说，她和同事接受了外国政府赞助的基金，但没有从与霍多尔科夫斯基那里，也没有从他曾拥有的尤科斯(Yukos)石油公司有关的个人或实体那里收取钱财。
The investigation has also taken aim at academics outside the school.
这项调查辐射到了该学院以外的学者圈内。
Sergei M. Guriev, a former rector of the New Economic School, in Moscow, fled to Paris in May last year after investigators visited his office. The departure of a prominent university leader sent a wave of concern through the Russian academic world — and the Higher School of Economics.
谢尔盖·古列夫(Sergei Guriev)是莫斯科新经济学院(New Economic School)的前院长，去年五月调查人员拜访了他的办公室之后，他逃到了巴黎。这位著名高校校长的逃离在俄罗斯的学术界——以及高等经济学院内引发了一波忧虑。
“Once Guriev escaped from Russia, several of my postgraduate students wondered whether they should leave the country, too,” because of the negative environment for academics, said Isak Froumin, academic supervisor of the school’s Institute of Education.
伊萨克·弗罗明(Isak Froumin)是高等经济学院教育所的学术导师，他说，因为这种负面的学术环境，“在古列夫逃离俄罗斯时，我的几位研究生就在考虑他们是不是也应该离开这个国家。”
Established in 1992 by Russian economists to help the former Soviet Union make the transition to a market economy, the highly respected school was granted “national research university” status in 2009. So far, it has said little about the investigation. “The priority is to preserve and save the school’s faculties,” said Yevgeny G. Yasin, the institution’s academic supervisor.
俄罗斯经济学家们在1992年建立了高等经济学院，以帮助前苏联转型为市场经济，这所备受尊崇的学校在2009年获得了“国家级研究大学”的地位称号。目前，校方对调查没有发表言论。“我们的第一要务是保护与留住学校的教职人员，”该校的学术督导叶夫根尼·亚辛(Yevgeny G. Yasin)说。
Sergei A. Markov, a former adviser to the Kremlin and a professor of political science at Moscow State University, said Russia was not unfairly scrutinizing academics.
谢尔盖·马尔可夫(Sergei A. Markov)是克里姆林宫的前顾问，现在是莫斯科国立大学(Moscow State University)的政治学教授，他说俄罗斯并没有进行非正义的学术清洗。
“There is no crackdown,” he said. “The Kremlin is just sending a signal to professors sympathizing with opposition that they should not be working in government institutions and at the same time serving interests of Putin’s radical opposition.”
“这并不是镇压，”他说，“克里姆林宫只是在向那些对反对派心怀同情的教授们传递一个信息：他们不应该一边在政府机构里工作，一边又为普京的激烈反对者的利益服务。”
He added, “The case of experts showed that you cannot be in Putin’s team, take government resources, and at the same time work in Khodorkovsky’s interests.”
他补充道：“专家案件表明，你不能站在普京的队伍里，拿着政府的资源，同时又为霍多尔科夫斯基服务。”
As the investigation continues, the atmosphere on the campus remains tense.
随着调查继续，校园中充斥着紧张的气氛。
According to Mr. Froumin, classroom discussions about sensitive topics, like human rights, gay rights, and religion, are very difficult.
据弗罗明表示，像人权、同性恋权利以及宗教信仰这类敏感话题，现在在课堂讨论中很难出现了。
During a recent lecture, Mr. Froumin was discussing gender and minority issues at universities when one of his students raised his hand and asked: “Aren’t you afraid to talk on this subject?” The student was concerned about a recent law that bans the distribution to minors of what it called gay propaganda, and whether it could be broadly interpreted to include a discussion in a lecture hall.
在近期的一堂课中，弗罗明在讨论大学中性别与少数派的问题，有一个学生举起手问道：“讨论这个题目，你不觉得害怕吗？”这位学生担心的是最近一条禁止对未成年人进行所谓“同性恋宣传”的法令，他害怕在课堂上进行这类讨论是否能得到广泛的理解。
In general, Mr. Froumin said the university remained “an oasis of freedom,” compared with other parts of Russian society. But the recent investigation has taken a toll.
弗罗明表示，总的来说，相比俄罗斯社会的方方面面，这所大学仍然是“一块自由的绿洲”。但是最近的调查已经造成了负面影响。
“In the conditions of increasing legal obscurantism,” he said, “professors fear that they might be misinterpreted.”
“在愈演愈烈的法制反启蒙主义进程中，”他说，“教授们害怕他们遭到误解。”