When Bevil Conway and his partner brought their premature twins home from the hospital, the two fathers felt it was important to keep them on a diet of breast milk. So the new parents purchased a couple of coolers and an extra freezer, and they started scouring Web sites for mothers with extra milk to share.
当贝维尔·康威(Bevil Conway)和他的伴侣将他们早产的双胞胎宝宝从医院带回家时，两位父亲都觉得能让宝宝喝上母乳是件很重要的事情。于是这对新爸爸买了两台冷藏箱和一部专门的冰箱，搜索网站找寻能将多余的母乳与人分享的妈妈。
They found a physician who was moving away; she gave them a stash of frozen milk she had pumped but never needed. They stopped by a fire station in Lexington, Mass., to retrieve milk from a firefighter’s wife. They picked up 100 ounces from a woman whose husband wanted his freezer back before hunting season, and they made regular visits to a woman in Maine who became a close friend and produced startling, prodigious amounts of milk.
他们找到了一位准备搬家的医生，她送给他们一箱自己吸出来却一直没用得上的冻奶。他们去了马萨诸塞州莱克星顿的一个消防站，取来一位消防员太太多余的母乳。他们从一位女士那里要到了100盎司（1盎司约为28.35克）母乳，她的丈夫希望在捕猎季前到来前将家里的冷藏箱清空。他们还定期拜访缅因州的一位女士，她的母乳产量高得惊人，而且成为了他们的好朋友。
And all of it was free.
而这一切全都是免费的。
“It was amazing, absolutely amazing,” said Dr. Conway, 38, a neuroscientist and artist in Cambridge, Mass. “We managed to feed the twins continuously without any formula for 14 months.”
38岁的康威博士现居马萨诸塞州坎布里奇市，是神经学家和艺术家，他说：“这真是很惊人，极其惊人。我们的双胞胎宝宝没喝一滴配方奶，靠母乳喂养了14个月。”
Wet nursing has moved into the Internet age. Where once new parents desperate for breast milk recruited a local mother or, more recently, turned to milk banks or made do with formula, now they rely on informal networks of donors, mostly strangers, hosted on Web sites like Eats on Feets and Human Milk 4 Human Babies.
母乳喂养已经迈入了互联网时代。过去刚刚升级的新父母们要四处奔走，在当地找到一位分享母乳的妈妈，近来，他们则转而求助母乳银行或用配方奶，而今他们则依靠非正规的捐献网络，比如Eats on Feets和Human Milk 4 Human Babies，而在这些网站上捐献母乳的人绝大多数都与受捐人素不相识。
But some physicians and public health experts fear that in their quest to provide infants with the benefits of breast milk, new parents may inadvertently be exposing their babies to potential harm.
但一些医生和公共卫生专家担心，父母本意是为了让宝宝享受到母乳喂养的益处，但此举反而有可能将孩子置于潜在的危险中。
Breast milk confers enormous health benefits. It’s considered the ideal nutrition for infants, and it contains antibodies and other protective immune factors that appear to reduce colds, ear and gastrointesintal infections, asthma and eczema, as well as diabetes and even leukemia, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. Neonatal intensive care units insist on breast milk for the smallest babies because it drastically improves their prospects.
母乳可以带来巨大的健康益处。它被视为是婴儿最理想的营养来源，含有抗体和其他保护性的免疫成份，据美国儿科学会(American Academy of Pediatrics)介绍，它看来可减少婴儿患感冒、耳朵和肠胃炎症、哮喘和湿疹，以及糖尿病甚至白血病的危险。新生儿重症监护病房坚持让低体重婴儿喝母乳，就是因为它能极大改善婴儿的健康前景。
But it is also a bodily fluid that can harbor harmful bacteria and viruses, including H.I.V., and H.I.V.-positive mothers can transmit the virus to their babies through their milk.
但母乳同时也是种体液，可能含有有害细菌和包含HIV（人类免疫缺陷病毒）在内的病毒，而HIV阳性的母亲可以通过母乳将病毒传染给宝宝。
Established human milk banks carefully screen donors, test them for diseases and pasteurize the breast milk they provide. But there is a huge demand for milk — in 2012 the banks dispensed 2.5 million ounces of milk, up from 2.1 million ounces in 2011 — and the banks must prioritize the smallest and sickest babies.
现有的母乳银行会仔细地筛选捐赠者，检查她们是否患病，并将她们提供的母乳进行巴氏消毒。但对母乳的需求量实在是太大了——2012年母乳银行总共分发了250万盎司母乳，较2011年上升了40万盎司——而且母乳银行需要优先照顾体重最小、身体最弱的婴儿。
And the prices are steep. Breast milk can cost up to $5.50 an ounce, more than the cost of formula. A 3-month-old can drink anywhere from 20 to 40 ounces a day or more.
而且母乳的代价也很高昂。母乳的价格可高达一盎司5.5美元，这比配方奶的价格更高。一个3个月大的小宝宝，每天需要的奶量在20到40盎司之间。
As a result, many new parents are turning to the Web, despite the Food and Drug Administration’s recommendation against feeding babies breast milk acquired directly from individuals or online.
因此，虽然美国食品药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）建议不要直接从个人或网络直接索取喂养婴儿的母乳，但还是有很多新父母寻求互联网的帮助。
“You don’t know what you’re getting on the Internet,” said Dr. Susan Landers, a neonatologist in Austin, Tex., one of several experts who in 2010 urged the Food and Drug Administration to step in and start regulating human milk banks. (The F.D.A. declined.)
“你根本不晓得通过网络得到的是什么东西，”德克萨斯州奥斯丁市的新生儿学专家苏珊·兰德斯(Susan Landers)医生这样说。在2010年，她同其他几位专家敦促FDA介入进来，开始规范管理母乳银行。（FDA拒绝对此置评。）
Dr. Landers noted that even if donor mothers have tested negative for viruses and bacteria, they may drink alcohol, smoke marijuana or use medicine that can be passed on through breast milk.
兰德斯医生提醒说，就算捐赠母乳的妈妈在病毒和细菌检测中结果为阴性，但她们还有可能饮酒、吸大麻或服用可经母乳排泄的药物。
When researchers reviewed the blood tests of 1,091 potential milk donors who had approached one milk bank over a recent six-year period, they found that 3.3 percent tested positive for a virus or bacterium on screening tests (some may have been false positives). Six were infected with syphilis, 17 with hepatitis B and three with hepatitis C. Six tested positive for human T-cell lymphotropic viruses (HTLV-1 and HTLV-2), and four were H.I.V.-positive.
研究者检测了在过去6年来曾接触过母乳银行、有意向捐献母乳的1091位妈妈的血样，结果发现在筛查检测中，有3.3%的人存在病毒或细菌感染阳性（当中有部分可能是假阳性）。其中6人感染梅毒，17人感染乙肝，3人感染丙肝。6人在人类嗜T细胞病毒（包括I型和II型）检查中结果为阳性，还有4人为HIV阳性。
Officials with milk banks also worry that informal milk sharing is robbing them of potential donors and could curtail the supply to premature babies. “Their lives can depend on receiving human milk,” said Kim Updegrove of the Human Milk Banking Association of North America. “And we don’t have enough. We are constantly cutting back on requests from hospitals.”
母乳银行的管理者也担心不正规的母乳分享会将潜在的捐赠者抢走，并且将危及到早产婴儿的口粮供应。北美母乳银行协会(Human Milk Banking Association of North America)的吉姆·厄普德格鲁伍(Kim Updegrove)说：“他们的生命或许就依靠着母乳的哺育，而我们储备不足。现在我们常常无法满足医院方面的需求。”
But many parents don’t even want pasteurized milk of the sort banks provide, because the heating process destroys some of the very substances — some of the milk’s immunoglobulin A, for example — that they are seeking in breast milk.
但是很多父母甚至不想要这类母乳银行提供的巴氏消毒奶，因为加热处理会破坏一些特定的物质——比如免疫球蛋白A——而这正是他们渴求母乳的原因。
“We use it straight up,” Dr. Conway said. “We want all the antibodies.” He noted that the donors he encountered were always willing to provide their medical records and were always nursing their own babies.
“我们是直接让宝宝喝母乳的，”康威博士说，“我们希望所有的抗体都物尽其用。”他指出，自己接触到的母乳捐赠者全都乐意出示自己的医疗记录，也都在用母乳喂养着自己的宝宝。
So what’s a parent-to-be to do?
那么，准父母们该何去何从？
Pregnant women who want to breast-feed should plan for it, making sure their hospitals’ policies facilitate breast-feeding and allow a baby and mother to share a room. Pacifiers should be avoided.
想要母乳喂养的孕妇应该及早谋划，确保分娩的医院支持母乳喂养，并允许母婴同室。而且应避免使用安抚奶嘴。
If a baby is born prematurely and can’t nurse, breast milk should be pumped 10 to 12 times a day to establish a supply.
如果婴儿早产，无法随时喂养，产妇应每天吸12到14次奶，以保证母乳产量。
Parents who use donor milk from informal channels should ask about the health histories of the donors and for recent blood tests and medical records.
通过非正规途径取得捐赠母乳的父母，应了解捐赠人的病史并查看对方近期的血检报告和医疗纪录。
Dr. Landers suggested new parents also consider flash-heating donor milk, a technique that can inactivate H.I.V. and destroy bacteria while retaining much of the milk’s nutritional and antimicrobial properties and important antibodies.
兰德斯医生建议新父母可以考虑闪速加热（flash heating，把一罐母乳放在一平底锅水中，让后者迅速加热至翻滚沸腾，随后让母乳冷却——编注）捐赠的母乳，这种技术可用来灭活HIV病毒并消灭细菌，与此同时还可以保留母乳中的多种营养、抗菌成份以及重要的抗体。