Signs of the energy business are inescapable in and around Houston — the pipelines, refineries and tankers that crowd the harbor, and the gleaming office towers where oil companies and energy traders have transformed the skyline.
在休斯敦市内和周边地区，能源业的迹象无处不在——管道，炼油厂，聚集在港口的油轮。熠熠闪光的石油公司和能源交易商办公大楼，已经改变了这座城市的天际线。
And in a squat glass building on the University of Houston campus, a measure of the industry’s pre-eminence can also be found in the person of Craig Pirrong, a professor of finance, who sits at the nexus of commerce and academia.
在休斯敦大学(University of Houston)一栋矮宽的玻璃建筑内，记者见到了克雷格·皮龙(Craig Pirrong)。从这位身处商业和学术界联结处的金融学教授身上，我们也能够一窥能源业的卓越地位。
As energy companies and traders have reaped fortunes by buying and selling oil and other commodities during the recent boom in the commodity markets, Mr. Pirrong has positioned himself as the hard-nosed defender of financial speculators — the combative, occasionally acerbic academic authority to call upon when difficult questions arise in Congress and elsewhere about the multitrillion-dollar global commodities trade.
大宗商品市场最近牛气冲天，能源公司和交易商通过买卖石油和其他大宗商品赚得了巨额财富。在这一进程中，皮龙教授一直以强硬的姿态捍卫金融投机者的利益。每当国会和其他场所出现涉及价值数万亿美元的全球大宗商品交易的难题时，他总是挺身而出，扮演一位非常好斗，言语偶尔尖刻的学术权威的角色。
Do financial speculators and commodity index funds drive up prices of oil and other essentials, ultimately costing consumers? Since 2006, Mr. Pirrong has written a flurry of influential letters to federal agencies arguing that the answer to that question is an emphatic no. He has testified before Congress to that effect, hosted seminars with traders and government regulators, and given countless interviews for financial publications absolving Wall Street speculation of any appreciable role in the price spikes.
金融投机者和大宗商品指数基金是否哄抬油价和其他必需品，最终加重了消费者的生活负担？自2006年以来，皮龙给联邦机构撰写了一系列颇具影响力的信函，斩钉截铁地给出了一个否定答案。在国会作证，参加有交易商和政府监管机构出席的座谈会，以及无数次接受金融媒体专访时，他也表达了相同立场，矢口否认华尔街投机行为明显推动价格暴涨。
What Mr. Pirrong has routinely left out of most of his public pronouncements in favor of speculation is that he has reaped financial benefits from speculators and some of the largest players in the commodities business, The New York Times has found.
《纽约时报》发现，在大多数为投机行为背书的公开声明中，皮龙总是习惯性地省略一个事实：他已经从投机者和大宗商品领域一些最大的参与者那里获得了不菲的经济利益。
While his university’s financial ties to speculators have been the subject of scrutiny by the news media and others, it was not until last month, after repeated requests by The Times under the Freedom of Information Act, that the University of Houston, a public institution, insisted that Mr. Pirrong submit disclosure forms that shed some light on those financial ties.
尽管新闻媒体和其他人一直在审查他的大学与投机者的经济联系，但直到上个月，在《纽约时报》依据《信息自由法案》(Freedom of Information Act)反复请求之后，作为一家公共机构的休斯顿大学才坚决要求皮龙教授提交披露报表，从而在一定程度上揭示了这些经济联系。
Governments and regulatory agencies in the United States and Europe have been gradually moving to restrict speculation by major banks. The Federal Reserve, concerned about the risks, is reviewing whether it should tighten regulations and limit the activities of banks in the commodities world.
美国和欧洲的政府和监管机构已经逐步采取了旨在限制各大银行投机行为的措施。出于对投机行为蕴含风险的担忧，美联储正在评估是否应该收紧相关法规，并限制银行在大宗商品世界的活动。
But interviews with dozens of academics and traders, and a review of hundreds of emails and other documents involving two highly visible professors in the commodities field — Mr. Pirrong and Professor Scott H. Irwin at the University of Illinois — show how major players on Wall Street and elsewhere have been aggressive in underwriting and promoting academic work.
然而，对数十名学者和交易员的采访，以及数百封涉及大宗商品领域两位经常公开露面的教授——皮龙和伊利诺伊大学(University of Illinois)教授斯科特·欧文(Scott H. Irwin )——的电子邮件和其他文件显示，华尔街和其他地方的主要参与者一直在积极地赞助和推动学术研究。
The efforts by the financial players, the interviews show, are part of a sweeping campaign to beat back regulation and shape policies that affect the prices that people around the world pay for essentials like food, fuel and cotton.
这些访谈表明，金融机构的这些努力是一场大规模运动的组成部分，其目的是击退监管措施，并影响那些会影响食品、燃料和棉花等生活必需品价格的政策。
Professors Pirrong and Irwin say that industry backing did not color their opinions.
皮龙和欧文声称，他们的观点并没有因金融业的支持而歪曲。
Mr. Pirrong’s research was cited extensively by the plaintiffs in a lawsuit filed by Wall Street interests in 2011 that for two years has blocked the limits on speculation that had been approved by Congress as part of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law. During that same time period, Mr. Pirrong has worked as a paid research consultant for one of the lead plaintiffs in the case, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, according to his disclosure form.
2011年，在华尔街利益提起的一项诉讼案中，申诉人广泛引用了皮龙的研究成果。两年来，这起诉讼成功阻止了已被国会批准的多德-弗兰克(Dodd-Frank)金融改革法案针对投机行为的限制举措。根据皮龙的披露报表，在同一时期，皮龙一直担任这起诉讼案的主要申诉人之一国际掉期交易协会(International Swaps and Derivatives Association)的受薪研究顾问。
While he customarily identifies himself solely as an academic, Mr. Pirrong has been compensated in the last several years by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the commodities trading house Trafigura, the Royal Bank of Scotland, and a handful of companies that speculate in energy, according to the disclosure forms.
虽然他习惯性地声称自己仅仅是一位学者，但这些披露报表显示，皮龙在过去几年一直从芝加哥商品交易所(Chicago Mercantile Exchange)、大宗商品交易商托克国际(Trafigura)、苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)和几家从事能源投机的公司领取薪酬。
The disclosure forms do not require Mr. Pirrong to reveal how much money he made from his consulting work, and a university spokesman said that the university believed it was strengthened by the financial support it received from the business community. When asked about the financial benefits of his outside activities, Mr. Pirrong replied, “That’s between me and the I.R.S.”
这些披露报表并不要求皮龙透露这些咨询工作究竟带给他多少收入。休斯顿大学一位发言人声称，企业界提供的资金支持加强了该校的实力。当被问及校外咨询活动为他带来了多少经济收益时，皮龙回答说，“这是我跟国税局(IRS)之间的事。”
Debating to a Stalemate
辩论陷入僵局
No one disputes that a substantial portion of price increases in oil and food over the last decade were caused by fundamental market factors: increased demand from China and other industrializing countries, extreme weather, currency fluctuations and the diversion of grain to biofuel.
无可否认的是，石油和食品价格在过去十年的暴涨主要是由基本的市场因素造成的：中国和其他发展中国家的需求猛增，极端天气，汇率波动，以及粮食转移至生物燃料用途。
But so much speculative money poured into markets — from $13 billion in 2003 to $317 billion at a peak in 2008 — that many economists, and even some commodities traders and investment banks, say the flood became a factor of its own in distorting prices.
但是，涌入市场的投机资金堪称海量——从2003年的130亿美元飙涨至2008年高峰时期的3170亿美元——以至于许多经济学家表示，这股投机浪潮自身已成为导致价格扭曲的一大因素，就连一些大宗商品交易商和投资银行也承认这一点。
Others assert that commodities markets have historically gone through intermittent price bubbles and that the most recent gyrations were not caused by the influx of speculative money. Mr. Pirrong has also argued that the huge inflow of Wall Street money may actually lower costs by decreasing what commodities producers pay to manage their risk.
其他人则断言，从历史记录来看，大宗商品市场经历过很多次间歇性价格泡沫；最近的价格回旋并不是投机资金的涌入造成的。皮龙也声称，华尔街资金的巨额流入减少了大宗商品生产者管理风险的支出，实际上可能降低了成本。
Mr. Pirrong and the University of Houston are not alone in publicly defending speculation while accepting financial help from speculators. Other researchers have received funding or paid consulting jobs courtesy of major commodities traders including AIG Financial Products, banks including the Bank of Canada or financial industry groups like the Futures Industry Association.
接受投机者资助，同时为投机行为公开背书的，并非只有皮龙和休斯顿大学。其他研究人员也接受了像美国国际集团金融产品部(AIG Financial Products)这类大宗商品交易商，像加拿大银行(Bank of Canada)这类银行，像美国期货业协会(Futures Industry Association)这类金融行业团体的资助和有偿咨询工作。
One of the most widely quoted defenders of speculation in agricultural markets, Mr. Irwin of the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana, consults for a business that serves hedge funds, investment banks and other commodities speculators, according to information received by The Times under the Freedom of Information Act. The business school at the University of Illinois has received more than a million dollars in donations from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and several major commodities traders, to pay for scholarships and classes and to build a laboratory that resembles a trading floor at the commodities market.
《纽约时报》根据《信息自由法案》获得的信息显示，作为农产品市场投机行为被广泛引用的捍卫者之一，伊利诺伊大学香槟分校的欧文教授为一家服务于对冲基金、投资银行和其他大宗商品投机者的企业提供咨询服务。伊利诺伊大学商学院已经收到了逾百万来自芝加哥商品交易所和几家主要大宗商品交易商的捐款，用以支付奖学金和上课费用，还仿照大宗商品市场交易大厅建立了一个实验室。
Mr. Irwin, the University of Illinois and the Chicago exchange all say that his research is not related to the financial support.
欧文、伊利诺伊大学和芝加哥商品交易所都声称，他的研究跟这些经济支持没有关联。
Underwriting researchers and academic institutions is one part of Wall Street’s efforts to fend off regulation.
为研究人员和学术机构提供资助，是华尔街抵御监管的策略之一。
The industry has also spent millions on lobbyists and lawyers to promote its views in Congress and with government regulators. Major financial companies have also funded magazines and websites to promote academics with friendly points of view. When two studies commissioned by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the financial regulatory agency, raised questions about the possible drawbacks of speculation and of high-frequency trading, lawyers for the Chicago exchange wrote a letter of complaint, saying that its members’ proprietary trading information was at risk of disclosure, and the research program was shut down.
金融业还花费数百万美元聘请游说者和律师在国会和政府监管部门宣扬自身观点。此外，主要金融公司还资助杂志和网站，以推动对该行业友好的学术观点。当金融监管机构商品期货交易委员会(Commodity Futures Trading Commission)委托的两项研究对投机和高频率交易的弊端提出质疑时，芝加哥交易所的律师写了一封投诉信，声称其成员的自营交易信息面临被披露的风险，这项研究计划最终被叫停。
The result of the various Wall Street efforts has been a policy stalemate that has allowed intensive speculation in commodities to continue despite growing concern that it may harm consumers and, for example, worsen food shortages. After a two-year legal delay, the futures trading commission this month introduced plans for new limits on speculation. Some European banks have stopped speculating in food, fearing it might contribute to worldwide hunger.
华尔街各方努力的结果就是一种任由大宗商品市场投机炒作愈演愈烈的政策僵局，尽管有识之士越来越担心这种行为可能会损害消费者，并加剧粮食短缺。经过两年的政策停滞之后，期货交易委员会本月初终于推出限制投机的新计划。一些欧洲银行已停止投机食品，担心这样做可能会加剧全球饥饿问题。
Mr. Pirrong, Mr. Irwin and other scholars say that financial considerations have not influenced their work. In some cases they have gone against the industry’s interests. They also say that other researchers with no known financial ties to the industry have also raised doubts about any link involving speculation and soaring prices.
皮龙、欧文和其他学者表示，经济方面的考量并没有影响他们的研究工作。在某些情况下，其研究结论与金融业的利益相悖。他们还说，与华尔街没有任何已知经济联系的其他研究人员也对投机行为和价格飙涨是否存在任何联系提出了质疑。
But ethics experts say that when academics fail to disclose financial ties, they do a disservice to the public and undermine the perception of impartiality.
但伦理专家认为，当学者没有披露相关财务联系的时候，他们就伤害了公众利益，破坏了公正性准则。
“If those that are creating the culture around financial regulation also have a significant, if hidden, conflict of interest, our public is not likely to be well served,” said Gerald Epstein, an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, who in 2010 released a study about conflicts of interest among academics who advised the federal government after the financial crisis.
“如果那些正在创造金融监管文化的人也存在显著或隐秘的利益冲突，我们的公众利益就不可能获得精心维护，”马萨诸塞州大学阿姆赫斯特分校(University of Massachusetts, Amherst)经济学教授杰拉尔德·爱泼斯坦(Gerald Epstein)说道。他曾经在2010年发布了一份研究报告，详尽分析了一些在金融危机后担当联邦政府顾问的学者自身存在的利益冲突问题。