LONDON — A century on from World War I, nobody wants the guns of August.
伦敦——第一次世界大战一百年后，没有人想再听到8月的炮火。
Yet it must be asked if waiting years for the evasive conclusions of an official investigation into the fate of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 is better than acting now on what we already know: That the Boeing 777 with 298 people on board was shot down by a missile from a Russian-made SA-11 antiaircraft system fired from an area of eastern Ukraine controlled by Russian-backed separatists, Russian mercenaries and Russian agents. A half-drunk Ukrainian peasant with a 1950s-era rifle doesn’t shoot down a plane at 33,000 feet.
但必须问一下，是等上好几年才得到有关马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)MH17航班命运的官方调查给出避实就虚的结论好呢，还是就我们已经知道的采取行动好呢？那架载着298人的波音777型客机，是被发射自俄罗斯制造的SA-11防空系统的一枚导弹击落的，地点是在乌克兰东部由俄罗斯支持的分裂分子、俄罗斯雇佣军和俄罗斯特工控制的地区。一个喝得半醉的乌克兰农民，用一只1950年代的步枪，打不下来高度在3.3万英尺(相当于1万米)的飞机。
An “enormous amount of evidence,” in Secretary of State John Kerry’s words, points to Russian provision of SA-11 systems and training. The Ukrainian government has damning audio and images that capture the crime. In June, a Ukrainian cargo plane landing in the area was hit with shoulder-fired missiles, killing 49 people. This month, another cargo plane flying at 22,000 feet was hit by a missile. Rocket science is not required.
用国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)的话说，“大量证据”指向俄罗斯提供的SA-11系统和培训。乌克兰政府有准确刻画犯罪的确凿录音和图像。今年6月，一架乌克兰运输机在这个地区降落时，被肩射式防空导弹击中，导致49人死亡。本月，在2.2万英尺飞行的又一架运输机也被一枚导弹击中。这不需要什么尖端科学。
President Vladimir Putin of Russia has been playing with fire. His irredentism has made him a hero in Russia. It has endangered the world. Crimea was the swaggering precedent to this crime. The shooting down of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 amounts to an act of war. It was impromptu perhaps, but still. Dutch corpses have rained down on the sunflowers and cornfields of eastern Ukraine, to be defiled even in death, 193 innocent Dutch souls dishonored by the thugs of the Donetsk People’s Republic.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)一直在玩火。他的领土收复主义已让他成为俄罗斯的英雄。也让世界面临危险。克里米亚是这次犯罪的神气十足的先例。击落MH17航班相当于战争行为。虽然也许是即兴的，但仍是战争行为。荷兰人的尸体像下雨似地落在乌克兰东部的向日葵和玉米地里，甚至在死后还被玷污，顿涅茨克人民共和国的恶棍让193个荷兰的无辜亡灵蒙受耻辱。
“This is murder, mass murder. Let’s call it what it is,” said Julian Lindley-French, a defense analyst who lives in the small Dutch village of Alphen. “Shock is turning to anger here,” he told me, “and that anger will resonate in the coming weeks. This is the beginning of a period of complex torture for the Netherlands.”
“这是屠杀，是大屠杀。我们要实事求是地这样说，”住在荷兰阿尔芬村的国防分析家朱利安·林德利-法兰西(Julian Lindley-French)说。他告诉我，“这里的震惊已变成愤怒，愤怒将在未来几周中引起共鸣。对荷兰来说，这是一个复杂的折磨阶段的开始。”
The Dutch response has been of tip-toeing deference to Moscow. As for the European Union, it has been near-nonexistent. When crisis comes, Europe vanishes — the ghost that slithers away. The West has become an empty notion. The Dutch trade a lot with Russia. Europe floats along in a bubble of quasi pacifism. Better to be bullied than belligerent. Nobody wants the guns of August.
荷兰的反应一直小心翼翼地避开莫斯科。至于欧盟，它已经近乎不存在。危机一出现，欧洲就消失，像是一个散去的鬼魂。西方已成为一个空洞的概念。荷兰跟俄罗斯做很多买卖。欧洲随一个类似和平主义的泡泡漂浮着。受欺负比火药味十足好。没有人想再听到8月的炮火。
“Swift recovery of the victims’ remains is now an absolute necessity and our highest priority,” Mark Rutte, the Dutch prime minister, said in a statement. “I am shocked by the images of completely disrespectful behavior at this tragic place.” He spoke to Putin to express his outrage.
“现在绝对需要做的是迅速找回遇难者的遗体，这是我们最大的当务之急，”荷兰首相马克·吕特(Mark Rutte)在一份声明中说。“我对这个悲惨地方的完全无礼行为的画面感到震惊。”他对普京表达了自己的愤慨。
That was pretty much it. Bodies rot in the sun for four days. They are stashed in plastic bags in refrigerated railroad cars at a fly-infested station before finally moving. The black box is a fungible bargaining chip. Louts go looting. It’s a free-for-all! Official investigation teams are barred at the perimeter. Putin spins implausible yarns robed in ghastly official formulas. His plausible deniability is utterly implausible.
不过仅此而已。尸体在阳光下已经腐烂了四天。它们被装进塑料袋堆在冷藏火车厢里，停在一个到处都是苍蝇的火车站，直到最终离开。黑匣子成了可交换的讨价还价筹码。野蛮人去趁机打劫。不拿白不拿！官方调查小组被挡在周边。普京用令人作呕的官话套乱编织着无真实性可言的遮羞布。他似是而非的否认完全不可信。
A Dutch writer, Sidney Vollmer, addressed a bitter letter to Rutte thanking him for preserving the moral high ground of the Dutch, for “not rushing in for a bunch of rotting corpses” as “their wallets and iPhones make it all the way” to Moscow. The corpses, anyway, “will vanish into the fog of war” and, as everyone knows, “we need Gazprom.”
荷兰作家西德尼·沃尔默(Sidney Vollmer)给吕特写了一封充满苦涩的信，感谢总理保持了荷兰人的道德制高点，而没有“为一堆腐烂尸体仓促行动”，让“他们的钱包和iPhone顺利进入”莫斯科。那些尸体反正“将消失在战争迷雾中”，但所有人都知道，“我们需要俄罗斯天然气股份工业公司(Gazprom)。”
Dutch passivity has a name: the Srebrenica syndrome. It is becoming the Europe syndrome.
荷兰的消极状态有一个名字：斯雷布雷尼察综合征。它正在成为欧洲综合征。
This mass murder is an outrage that should not stand. Falling military budgets have reduced the Dutch special forces to a paltry remnant. Russia would veto any United Nations Security Council Resolution authorizing force for a limited mission to recover the bodies and the evidence. But Ukraine, on whose territory the debris and dead lie, would support it. The American, British, Dutch and Australian governments should set an ultimatum backed by the credible threat of force demanding unfettered access to the site. Putin’s Russia must not be permitted to host the 2018 World Cup. A Western priority must be to transform the Ukrainian army into a credible force.
此次大屠杀是一个不可容忍的骇人听闻事件。不断削减的军费已让荷兰特种部队小到微不足道的程度。俄罗斯将使用否决权，阻止联合国安理会就为找回尸体和证据而授权使用有限武力的问题达成任何决议。但是，乌克兰会支持，那些残骸和死者都在乌克兰的土地上。美国、英国、荷兰以及澳大利亚政府应该为不受限制地前往现场的要求设置一个最后通牒，并用可信的武力威胁来支持。一定不能让普京的俄罗斯主办2018年的世界杯赛。西方的一项首要任务是必须把乌克兰军队改造成一支可信的力量。
It won’t happen. Europe is weak. Obama’s America is about retrenchment, not resolve. Putin must be appeased. Nobody is about to call his bluff. The Putin-pacifiers have many arguments. Send forces into Ukraine and you prove the Russian argument that the West has designs on it. Besides, who wants World War III?
但这些都不会发生。欧洲软弱无力。奥巴马的美国要紧缩开支，而不是解决问题。必须有人来安抚普京。没有人敢挑战他。要安抚普京的人有许多种说法。派兵进入乌克兰，那你就证明了俄罗斯的观点：西方对乌克兰预谋已久。再说，谁想打第三次世界大战？
The self-styled Donetsk People’s Republic stares down Mark Rutte. The deathly poppy fields of 1914 give way to the deathly sunflower fields of 2014. Dutch flowers wing around the globe, still, a thriving trade.
自封的顿涅茨克人民共和国把马克·吕特盯得慌了神。1914年尸横遍野的罂粟田让位于2014年尸横遍野的向日葵田。荷兰的鲜花遍布全世界，那可是笔繁荣的买卖。