BEIJING — They may be the most reviled public servants in China. A Chinese Academy of Social Sciences report on the popularity of government officials two years ago ranked the chengguan, or urban management officers, dead last. Unarmed but charged with enforcing order on city streets, they have been scorned as bullies who brutalize beggars, smash unlicensed fruit vendors’ carts, kill unregistered pets and assist in the forced demolition of people’s homes. Scuffles are common, sometimes ending in injury or even death.
北京——他们可能是中国挨骂最多的公务员。两年前，中国社会科学院的一份报告对政府官员按照受欢迎程度进行了排名，城管排在最后。城市管理员负责管理城市街道的秩序，虽然他们不带武器，但人们把城管骂为横行霸道者，说他们残酷对待乞丐，打破无照水果小贩的推车，打死没有注册的宠物，还协助强制拆除居民的住宅。冲突在他们的工作中比较常见，有时还发生人员受伤乃至死亡的情况。
Needless to say, it is a high-stress job.
不用说，这是一份压力很大的工作。
In recognition of the pressures, China’s first Psychological Crisis Intervention Center for Chengguan opened in Nanjing this week, offering counseling and other support services for chengguan. And perhaps not too soon. The opening came just days after a chengguan in Nanjing was stabbed to death by a street vendor he was trying to discipline.
认识到这些压力，中国首家城管执法队伍心理危机干预中心本周在南京正式挂牌成立，中心将为城管提供心理辅导及其他支撑服务。这也许来得很及时。就在这家中心成立的几天前，南京一名城管被摆地摊的小贩持刀刺死。
Zhang Chun, one of 18 psychologists at the center, said that it would not only provide counseling for individual chengguan, but that it was conducting a survey of about 2,000 such officials to assess their needs. The center plans to issue a handbook of legal and safety guidelines for their work.
张纯是该中心的18名心理学家之一，他说，中心不仅会为城管队员提供个体咨询，也正在对大约2000名城管进行问卷调查，以评估他们的需求。该中心还计划编发一本有关城管岗位的法律和安全指导手册。
“Chengguan have a very bad reputation,” Mr. Zhang said in an interview. “No matter what they do, their work is never recognized as something positive. Chengguan need a place like this to ease their stress.”
“城管的名声非常不好，”张纯在接受采访时说。“不管他们干什么，他们的工作从来都未得到过正面认可。城管队员需要一个这样的地方来缓解压力。”
“But at the same time,” he added, “there are many chengguan who are just too rough in their work. The wrong approach can end in tragedy. So we also hope to help them by changing how they work.”
他补充说，“但与此同时，有很多城管的工作方式也太粗暴了。错误的方法可能会导致悲剧发生。所以，我们也希望能帮助他们，改变他们的工作方式。”
The chengguan system was established in 1997 as a supplement to the police, in part to cope with the millions of rural migrants who were streaming into the cities seeking work, sometimes in a legal gray zone. According to China National Radio, at the beginning of 2016 there were more than a million chengguan.
城管系统是1997年为补充警力而成立的，部分目的是应对涌入城市的数百万农民工，他们进城来寻找工作，有时处于法律的灰色地带。中国中央广播电台网站的资料显示，到2016年年初，城管人员总数已经超过了一百万。
Still, it was not until late last year that the government released a document clarifying the chengguan’s work and responsibilities. This year, the government invited public comment on draft legislation that would further define, and possibly expand, their range of duties.
但是，政府直到去年年底才发布了一份文件，明确了城管的工作和职责。今年，政府已就一部立法草案公开征求意见，立法草案会进一步明确城管的职责范围，也可能将其扩大。
As of Thursday, the Nanjing center said that about 30 chengguan had visited or telephoned requesting assistance. In interviews, other chengguan talked about the difficulties they face and where they need help.
南京的中心表示，截至周四，已有约30名城管前来中心、或打电话到中心寻求帮助。在采访中，其他城管也谈了他们面临的困难，以及他们需要帮助的地方。
Yu Gaozhong, 34, a chengguan who works in the city’s Gulou district, said he once tried discussing occupational pressures with a friend, who laughed and asked, “Isn’t it the street vendors who should be asking for sympathy?”
34岁的余高忠（音）是南京市鼓楼区的城管，他说自己曾试着与一个朋友谈工作压力的问题，但朋友却笑着反问他：“难道不是街头摊贩们更该寻求同情吗？”
Mr. Yu said he could see the need for a counseling center. “Not many people I know want to listen to a chengguan’s complaints,” he said, “because they think chengguan are the thugs who bully others.”
余高忠说，他理解成立心理咨询中心的需要。“我认识的人中，没几个想听城管的抱怨，”他说，“因为他们觉得城管是欺负人的暴徒。”
Mr. Yu, who became a chengguan when he left the army in 2005, said he had occasionally considered quitting but never followed through.
余高忠2005年从部队转业后当了城管，他说，自己偶尔也想过辞职，但从未真正采取行动。
“My son isn’t proud of my work,” he said. “Once he wrote in a school composition that I was a chengguan and his classmates laughed at him. One reason I still do it is, first, it’s not easy to get a new job and, second, it’s stable. It’s secure, at least.”
“我儿子并不为我的工作感到自豪，”他说。“有一次，他在学校的作文中写我是城管，结果遭到同学的嘲笑。我现在还在当城管的原因，第一是找新工作不容易，第二是城管的工作很稳定。至少工作有保障。”
He says he takes preventive measures to avoid charges of brutality. “Sometimes, I keep both hands behind my back when the street vendors get close to me, to show people gathering around that I’m not beating anyone,” he said. “Even if I’m getting punched, bystanders usually say I’m the one who’s being cruel.”
他说自己采取了预防措施，以免被人指责为野蛮。“有时候，当摊贩靠近我时，我把双手放在背后，向聚集在周围人显示，我没有打任何人，”他说。“即使我挨了一拳，旁观者通常也会说我是那个残忍的人。”
Zhao Yang, 43, a chengguan in the Xuanwu district who founded an online forum for the officers, said he thought the center was a good idea. “At least it shows people are paying attention to the issue,” he said. “But the center’s only for fixing problems. Preventing problems is more important.”
43岁的赵洋（音）在玄武区当城管，曾创办过一个城管网上论坛，他认为该中心的成立是好事。“至少表明人们关心这个问题，”他说。“但这个中心只是为了解决问题。预防问题的发生更重要。”
“Chengguan are just the scapegoat,” Mr. Zhao said. “We’re just doing our job, but people take out their anger with the government, or other departments, at us, because we’re the people who are in direct contact with them. I think China needs more laws and regulations that clarify our responsibilities, and chengguan should be better equipped when we’re out doing our work to avoid harm.”
“城管不过是替罪羊，”赵洋说。“我们只是在做我们的工作，但人们把对政府或其他部门的怨气发泄在我们身上，因为我们是与他们有直接接触的人。我认为，中国需要更多的法律和法规，来明确我们的职责，城管外出执法时，应该有更好的装备，以免遭受伤害。”
Fang Jun, 38, a chengguan in the Qinhuai district, also complained of a lack of guidance for their work, and for dealing with people’s hostility.
38岁的方军（音）是秦淮区城管，他也抱怨城管缺乏工作指南，还要面对公众的敌意。
“We’re more stressed than anyone can imagine,” Mr. Fang said. “We’re cursed, even when we do exactly as the laws and regulations require.”
“我们的压力超乎所有人的想象，”方军说。“即便是完全按照法律法规行事，我们也会挨骂。”
A chronic problem is dealing with contradictory demands, he said. “Motorists demand that we clear away food stands that block lanes, but people who like shopping at street stands, where it’s usually cheaper, want us to leave them alone,” Mr. Fang said. “What should we do?”
一个长期存在的问题是，处理矛盾的需求，他说。“开车的人要求我们赶走挡道的食品摊贩，而喜欢在街边小摊上买东西的人不让我们赶走摊贩，因为摊子上的东西一般比较便宜，”方军说。“我们该怎么办呢？”
“But after so many years,” he added, “I’m kind of numb now. As long as no one posts photos of me working improperly online, I try not to mind how others see me.”
他说，“但工作了这么多年后，我有点麻木了。只要没人把我工作方式不当的照片贴到网上，我会尽量不去想别人怎么看我。”
Mr. Fang said he probably would not visit the center himself. “I’ve seen so many projects that just sound good,” he said. “I wonder if it’s just another one that will attract some attention and then be forgotten.”
方军说他本人可能不会去这个中心。“我见过很多项目，听起来都很不错，”他说。“我不知道这会不会又是一个吸引了一些眼球，然后就被人遗忘的项目。”
In the meantime, his way of dealing with angry street vendors who threaten him is to “run away fast.”
与此同时，要是遇到愤怒的街头小贩威胁他，他应对的方法是“快速跑开”。