This year, a study administered by researchers at Harvard and Stanford drew significant attention for what it revealed about how inadequately low-income students are represented at selective colleges and universities. Only 34 percent of the highest-achieving high-school seniors whose families fell in the bottom quarter of income distribution — versus 78 percent in the top quarter — attended one of the country’s most selective colleges, based on a list of nearly 250 schools compiled by Barron’s.
今年，哈佛大学(Harvard)和斯坦福大学(Stanford)的研究人员发布了一项受到广泛关注的研究报告。该报告揭示了低收入学生在美国一流大学中未获得充分代表的程度。根据《巴伦周刊》(Barron’s)编制的一份包含近250所学校的清单，在出身于全美收入分配曲线末尾四分之一家庭的优秀高中毕业生中，仅有34%的人进入了全美最顶尖的大学，而在出身于全美收入分配曲线顶部四分之一的优秀高中毕业生中，这一比例则高达78%。
In New York City, where a neighborhood like Bushwick, in Brooklyn, can seem like a satellite campus of Wesleyan and a prewar apartment building on the Upper East Side can feel like an Ivy League dormitory for 46-year-olds, there has been considerable philanthropic attention, of the kind other cities ought to envy, paid to finding the most gifted low-income students and putting them on a similar path.
在纽约市，各种慈善机构一直致力于寻找最有天赋的低收入学生，并帮助他们踏上一个类似的深造路径。这些机构对这一问题的重视程度足以让其他城市艳羡不已。在布鲁克林区一个名叫布什维克的社区，这里看起来就像是卫斯理安大学(Wesleyan)的一个卫星校园，上东区一栋建造于二战前的公寓大楼，感觉有点像一个供46岁大学生居住的常春藤盟校(Ivy League)宿舍。
In 1978, Gary Simons, a Bronx teacher, founded Prep for Prep with the goal of identifying talented students of color in the city and readying them for attendance at private schools like Dalton and Groton and so on. Hundreds of the program’s alumni have gone on to law, medical and business schools, and employment at Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Time Warner.
1978年，布朗克斯区教师加里·西蒙斯(Gary Simons)创建了一个名叫Prep for Prep的课外辅导项目，以识别纽约市有才华的有色人种学生，并帮助他们进入道尔顿(Dalton)和格罗顿(Groton)等私立名校。数百位参加过该项目的学生随后进入法学院、医学院和商学院深造，并最终就职于高盛(Goldman Sachs)、摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)和时代华纳(Time Warner)等知名公司。
A decade ago, hoping also to advance the best students attending public high schools, Mr. Simons and others founded another organization, Leadership Enterprise for a Diverse America, or LEDA, which draws exceptional children from around the country, regardless of race, almost entirely from families who make less than $55,000 a year. Applicants are required to be in the top 10 percent of their class, having taken the most difficult courses their schools offer. The 60 who gain entry to the program each year spend the summer before 12th grade at Princeton, studying ethics, political theory and public policy, and preparing for standardized college entrance exams.
10年前，同样本着帮助最优秀学生就读公立高中的期许，西蒙斯等人创立了另一家名叫“面向一个多元化美国的领导事业”（Leadership Enterprise for a Diverse America，简称LEDA）的组织，并吸引了来自全美各地的杰出孩童。这些学生种族各异，几乎全部出身于年收入不到5.5万美元的家庭。申请者的成绩必须位列其所在班级前10%，并且参加过各自学校开设的难度最大的课程。每年进入该项目的60名学生利用高三前的那个暑期，在普林斯顿大学(Princeton)学习伦理、政治理论和公共政策等课程，积极备考标准化的大学入学考试。
In a wondrous righting of the current disequilibrium, however small its scale, they are tutored for those tests by the same instructors who work with some of Manhattan’s wealthiest teenagers: the staff of Advantage Testing, whose services cost parents up to $795 an hour. Arun Alagappan, the founder and president of Advantage and a major benefactor of LEDA, provides his employees (whose résumés typically resemble those of the people at Google or McKinsey) pro bono.
为这些学生提供应试辅导的，正是那些指导曼哈顿地区最富裕青少年的老师，即优势测试公司(Advantage Testing)的员工，其每小时辅导服务的收费高达795美元。LEDA项目主要赞助人，优势测试公司创始人兼总裁阿伦·阿拉加潘(Arun Alagappan)无偿提供他的员工。这些辅导老师的履历通常跟谷歌(Google)或麦肯锡公司(McKinsey)的员工没什么两样。
LEDA has been very successful. Of the 500 or so students who have graduated from the program, three quarters have gone on to top-tier colleges, 30 percent of them to the Ivy League. Among LEDA’s 2012 graduates alone, 19 gained admission to Princeton, 11 to Georgetown and 6 to the University of Pennsylvania.
LEDA项目一直非常成功。在毕业于该项目的大约500名学生中，四分之三的人考入了美国顶级大学，其中的30%进入了常青藤盟校。仅在LEDA项目2012年的毕业生中，就有19人被普林斯顿大学录取，11人考入乔治城大学(Georgetown)，还有6位学生迈入了宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)的大门。
Last week I took a walk around Red Hook, Brooklyn, with Joshua El-Bey, a LEDA graduate who was leaving in a few days for his sophomore year at Yale. His family struggled as he grew up, moving often and ultimately landing in the Red Hook Houses, the borough’s largest public housing development. His first memories of book learning, he told me, were the readings his mother delivered from Genesis when he was 2. What was disconcerting about Mr. El-Bey’s otherwise incredibly inspiring trajectory was how much of his success had depended on opportunities outside the public education system.
上周，我在布鲁克林红钩社区四周走了走。和我一起散步的，是LEDA毕业生约书亚·艾尔-贝伊(Joshua El-Bey)。过不了几天，艾尔-贝伊就将开始他在耶鲁大学(Yale)的大二生活了。他出身自一个贫穷家庭，小时候经常搬家，最终落脚在了布鲁克林自治区最大的公屋项目红钩家园(Red Hook Houses)。他对我说，记忆中首次获得的书本知识，是两岁那年妈妈递给他的《创世纪》(Genesis)读本。艾尔-贝伊的成长轨迹令人难以置信，倍感鼓舞，除了一个令人不安的事实：他的成功在很大程度上依赖于公共教育体系之外的机会。
Bullied in middle school for his studiousness, Mr. El-Bey hoped to gain admission to one of the city’s elite specialized public high schools, but he did not do well enough on the entrance exam. The free tutoring provided by the city for the test was insufficient, he said.
上初中时，由于勤奋用功，艾尔-贝伊受尽其他同学的欺侮，所以非常希望考上纽约市一所重点公立高中，但他的入学成绩不够理想。他说，在免费应试辅导方面，纽约市提供的服务非常不足。
He ended up at Edward R. Murrow in Midwood, Brooklyn, a good school whose academics were nevertheless surpassed by the supplemental training he received as a scholar at Sponsors for Educational Opportunity, an organization begun 50 years ago by Manhattan lawyers and advertising executives as a mentoring program to get poor minority students into good colleges. Today it essentially provides a shadow education. In school, Mr. El-Bey told me, he simply learned to “regurgitate facts.”
艾尔-贝伊最终考上了位于布鲁克林中木区的爱德华·默罗(Edward R. Murrow)高中。虽然这所高中也算是一所好学校，但其教学水平依然比不上他在“赞助教育机会”（Sponsors for Educational Opportunity，简称SEO）接受的课外培训。50年前，曼哈顿的几位律师和广告公司高管创建了这家组织，他们希望通过一个辅导项目，帮助出生在贫困家庭的少数族裔学生考上好大学。就本质而言，它目前提供的其实是一个影子教育项目(shadow education)。艾尔-贝伊告诉我，在学校，他只是学会了“反刍事实”。
Programs like LEDA and S.E.O. are popular with wealthy, supremely educated donors, precisely because of outcomes like Mr. El-Bey’s. Just this May, the financier Henry R. Kravis pledged $4 million in matching gifts to S.E.O.
LEDA和SEO等辅导项目之所以备受教育程度极高的富裕捐助者的青睐，恰恰是因为它们培养出了类似艾尔-贝伊这样的好学生。就在今年五月份，金融家亨利·克拉维斯(Henry R. Kravis)承诺称，他将向SEO捐赠价值400万美元的礼物。
And in a city as dense with talent and money as New York, the effects of such philanthropy can be effortlessly observed. Walking through his neighborhood, Mr. El-Bey ran into another alumnus of S.E.O., Luis Hernandez, who was about to begin his freshman year at the University of Southern California. In a precocious accomplishment more typical in other neighborhoods, Mr. Hernandez had won a screenwriting contest for a film about obesity that had already made its debut on the Showtime cable channel.
在纽约这样一个人才济济，财富涌动的城市中，我们可以毫不费力地观察到诸如此类的慈善事业带来的深远影响。当我们在艾尔-贝伊居住的社区散步时，他碰到了另一位接受过SEO培训的同学。这位名叫路易斯·埃尔南德斯(Luis Hernandez)的小伙子即将开始他在南加州大学(University of Southern California)的学业。埃尔南德斯曾经赢得过一个剧本竞赛，这部聚焦肥胖问题的电影已经在Showtime有线电视频道上映——像这种超越年龄的成就，通常在其他社区更常见一些。
As a society we have begun to pay increasing and essential attention to gaining access to the top, but the brightest among us might do well to apply equal focus to how we might enhance the middle.
作为一个社会，我们已经越来越重视如何让学生步入顶级学术殿堂这个问题。尽管这种关注非常必要，但我们当中最聪明的那些人或许也应该给予如何加强中等学生教育这一问题同样大的关注度。
Most students, rich or poor, will not go to Harvard, while plenty of working-class and poor students will go to colleges that serve them not nearly well enough. Not long ago, our son’s caregiver, who is taking classes at LaGuardia Community College in Queens, showed me a paper she had written for a class in English composition taught by a teacher who was consistently late and twice absent. It was on Ibsen’s “A Doll’s House” and my husband had helped her. It incisively analyzed the play’s theme of 19th-century marital oppression and was impeccably written.
不论贫富，大多数学生都与哈佛大学无缘。大量出身自工薪阶层和贫困家庭的学生，将迈入一些教学质量非常不堪的大学。帮我们照顾儿子的那位姑娘，正在皇后区的拉瓜地亚社区学院(LaGuardia Community College)上课。不久前，她给我看了一篇她写的作文——她的英语作文课老师隔三差五地迟到，有两次甚至没来上课。它评述的是挪威戏剧作家易卜生(Ibsen)的大作《玩偶之家》(A Doll’s House)，我丈夫此前还给她的这篇文章提供过一些帮助。这篇作文精辟地分析了这部以19世纪婚姻压迫为主题的戏剧，行文用语堪称完美，无可挑剔。
When our nanny received her grade, she was shocked not to have done as well as she had expected. Her formatting had been imprecise, the teacher told her. And there was a problem with spacing. Content seemed not to matter much at all.
但随后接到的成绩单，让我们家的这位保姆震惊不已——老师的评价与她此前的预期相差万里。这位老师对她说，她的写作格式一直不够精确，另外文章的间距也有问题。在这位老师的眼中，文章的内容似乎无关紧要。