To get a brief reprieve from the pressures of working in the White House, Kristina Schake, a former aide to the first lady, Michelle Obama, took a class about her favorite painter, Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio.
为了从白宫工作的压力中获得短暂的缓解，第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)的前助理克里斯蒂娜·舍克(Kristina Schake)选读了一门课程，是关于她最喜欢的画家米开朗基罗·梅里西·达·卡拉瓦乔(Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio)的。
She noticed that the Italian painter often showed Christ with bare feet, portraying his subject as a common man.
她注意到，这位意大利画家经常让基督赤着脚，把他描绘成普通人。
It was a lesson that informed Ms. Schake’s job in the East Wing when, as Mrs. Obama’s communications chief, she encouraged the first lady to take an undercover shopping trip to a Target in suburban Alexandria, Va., to showcase her dance moves on “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon” and to make a cameo at the Oscars.
这门课给她在白宫东翼的工作带来了启发。当时她担任奥巴马夫人的联络主管，她鼓励第一夫人悄悄去弗吉尼亚州亚历山德里亚郊区的塔吉特百货(Target)购物；在《吉米晚间秀》(Late Night With Jimmy Fallon)上展示自己的舞步；在奥斯卡颁奖礼上担任嘉宾。
Positioning a public figure is not exactly the work of a Baroque master, and a trip to Target does not a work of-art make. Nevertheless, the lesson from Caravaggio was clear in Ms. Schake’s approach.
为公众人物定位可不是卡拉瓦乔这位巴洛克大师的工作，去塔吉特百货购物也不是艺术行为。不过，从卡拉瓦乔身上学到的东西对舍克行事方式的影响很明显。
Having helped shape Mrs. Obama’s public image into that of an accessible everywoman, Ms. Schake is about to face what may be her toughest challenge yet: working to get another first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, elected president.
舍克把奥巴马夫人的公众形象塑造为平易近人的普通女人。现在，她可能面临着生平最艰巨的挑战：努力帮助另一位第一夫人——希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)——当选总统。
Mrs. Clinton, who is expected to announce her candidacy this month, has brought Ms. Schake, 45, to her 2016 communications team to try to tackle an issue that dogged the 2008 Clinton campaign.
克林顿夫人可能会在本月正式宣布参加总统竞选（她已在12日宣布第二次竞选总统——编注）。她把45岁的舍克拉进自己的2016年竞选联络团队，以解决困扰她2008年竞选的一个问题。
Back then, Mrs. Clinton’s advisers argued she should emphasize strength and experience, rather than her softer side, a strategic decision that Ann Lewis, a senior adviser in that race, has called the “biggest missed opportunity” in the failed 2008 primary contest against Barack Obama.
当时，克林顿夫人的顾问们认为，她应该强调自己的力量和经验，而不是温和的一面。那次竞选的高级顾问安妮·刘易斯(Ann Lewis)称，那个战略决策是导致克林顿夫人在2008年预选中输给贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的“最大因素”。
Now, after two decades in the public eye, Mrs. Clinton must try to show voters a self-effacing, warm and funny side that her friends say reflects who she really is. In short, she must counteract an impression that she is just “likeable enough,” as Mr. Obama famously quipped in 2008.
如今，在受公众瞩目20年之后，克林顿夫人必须努力向投票人展现自己谦逊、温暖、风趣的一面，她的朋友们说这才是她的真性情。简而言之，她必须消除只是“够讨人喜欢了”的印象——这话是奥巴马2008年对她的著名讽刺。
As the campaign’s presumptive deputy communications director, Ms. Schake will be behind the effort to transport the Hillary Brand beyond paid campaign television ads, policy discussions and the requisite sit-down with a nightly news anchor.
舍克非常可能成为希拉里竞选团队的副联络主管，她将在付费电视竞选广告、政策讨论以及与晚间新闻主播的必要交谈之外，寻找其他途径帮助传播希拉里品牌。
The daughter of a stay-at-home mother and a commercial airline pilot from Sonoma, Calif., Ms. Schake is best known for finding ways to communicate with Americans outside the coastal elite — a perspective Mrs. Clinton, who lives in Chappaqua, N.Y., and regularly commands a speaking fee of more than $200,000, will need.
舍克的母亲是家庭主妇，父亲是加利福尼亚州索诺马一家商业航空公司的飞行员。她最擅长的是寻找与东海岸精英之外的美国人沟通的方法。这一点将是克林顿夫人所需要的——她住在纽约州的查帕科，发表演讲的常规费用是20多万美元。
That won’t necessarily mean she will mimic Mrs. Obama’s “Driving the Station Wagon” dance on late-night TV, but Mrs. Clinton could, for example, talk to the Food Network about dinners with girlfriends or discuss her yoga routines on a health and wellness blog.
克林顿夫人不一定要像奥巴马夫人那样，在深夜电视节目中跳“开旅行车”舞，但她可以在美食频道谈论与女友们外出就餐的情况，或者在健康博客上讨论自己的日常瑜伽锻炼。
The proliferation of new ways to reach voters through multiple devices means “it’s not the same formula in politics that it was even just four years ago or eight years ago,” said Stephanie Cutter, a Democratic strategist and a deputy campaign manager for the Obama reelection campaign. “It’s about understanding people who are just living their lives and figuring out ways to fit a candidate into that, rather than vice versa.”
民主党策略家、奥巴马第二次参加总统竞选时的副竞选主管斯蒂芬妮·卡特(Stephanie Cutter)说，接触选民的新方式在不断增多，这意味着“如今的政治模式与四年前或八年前不同了”，“现在的模式是理解那些有自己生活的选民，想办法让候选人融入选民的生活，而不是相反”。
Ms. Schake, who declined to be interviewed for this article, first learned what resonates with a mass American audience from the man best known for “All in the Family” and “When Harry Met Sally.” In 1998 the actor and director Rob Reiner and his wife, Michele Singer Reiner, hired her to help with their push to pass a ballot initiative that would add a 50-cent tax to each pack of cigarettes sold in California to fund early childhood education.
舍克（她拒绝为本文接受采访）最初是从演员兼导演罗布·赖纳(Rob Reiner)那里学会如何与广大美国观众产生共鸣的。赖纳最出名的作品是《全家福》(All in the Family)和《当哈利遇见莎莉》(When Harry Met Sally)。1998年，赖纳和妻子米歇尔·辛格·赖纳(Michele Singer Reiner)聘请舍克帮忙推动通过一项公民表决提案——给加州出售的每包香烟增加50美分的税，以资助早期儿童教育。
Mr. Reiner said Ms. Schake consistently reminded him not to veer from the predetermined script, which had an almost cinematic simplicity. “Every step of the way it was ‘the good guys are fighting the bad guys,’ ” Mr. Reiner said in an interview. “It was, ‘Do you want to support big tobacco or do you want to support little children?’ ”
赖纳说，舍克不断提醒他，不要偏离预定的行动计划，它几乎和电影情节一样简单。“那个计划的每一步都是在表现‘好人在与坏人作斗争’，”赖纳接受采访时说，“就好像在说，‘你是想支持大型烟草公司还是帮助小孩？’”
The initiative passed despite the roughly $40 million the tobacco lobby spent to defeat it.
尽管烟草公司花了约4000万美元进行游说，这项提案还是通过了。
Mr. Reiner introduced Ms. Schake to Chad Griffin, a former aide in the Clinton White House who is now the president of the Human Rights Campaign. Mr. Griffin and Ms. Schake became best friends and together started Griffin-Schake, a Los Angeles-based public affairs shop. They handled media relations for Maria Shriver when she was the first lady of California.
赖纳把舍克介绍给查德·格里芬(Chad Griffin)。格里芬曾担任克林顿的白宫副官，现在是“人权运动”组织(Human Rights Campaign)的主席。格里芬和舍克成了好朋友，一起开创了洛杉矶公共事务公司格里芬-舍克(Griffin-Schake)。他们曾负责处理加州第一夫人玛丽亚·施赖弗(Maria Shriver)的媒体关系。
Ms. Schake was one of the first people Mr. Griffin came out to, on the rooftop of the Standard Hotel in downtown Los Angeles. “She worked to get the story out of me and she got what she wanted,” Mr. Griffin said.
舍克是最早知道格里芬同性恋身份的人之一，那是在洛杉矶市中心的标准酒店(Standard Hotel)屋顶上。“她努力想从我这里知道真相，她如愿以偿了，”格里芬说。
The battle for gay rights soon became the two friends’ focus when they became central players in the legal case against Proposition 8, the ballot initiative that barred same-sex couples from marrying. Ms. Schake prepared the plaintiffs for the crush of publicity, while also showing a mainstream audience that they were just ordinary committed couples.
很快，争取同性恋权利成为这两个好朋友的关注重点。他们成为反对8号提案(Proposition 8)的法律诉讼的主要参与者。这项公民表决提案禁止同性恋伴侣结婚。舍克帮原告们做好心理准备，应对公众的压力，同时向主流观众表明，他们只是普通的忠诚情侣。
A month before the Supreme Court dismissed the California measure, Ms. Schake persuaded Kris Perry and Sandy Stier of Berkeley, Calif., who had been together more than a decade, to pose for a feature in People magazine.
在最高法院驳回这项加州提案前一个月，舍克劝一对共同生活十多年的加州伯克利同性恋伴侣克丽丝·佩里(Kris Perry)和桑迪·施蒂尔(Sandy Stier)为《人物》(People)杂志的一篇特写拍照。
“I was really self-conscious about being the only really physically gay-looking one” of the plaintiffs, Ms. Perry said in an interview. She told Ms. Schake she thought she should change her hair or wear different clothes. “She just put her hand on my shoulder and said, ‘No, that is not going to happen,’ ” Ms. Perry said.
佩里在接受采访时说，“我是原告中唯一一个外表看起来像同性恋的人，我对此感到非常难为情。”她告诉舍克，她觉得自己应该改变发型或服装。“她把手放在我肩上说，‘不，你不用改变，’” 佩里说。
In 2010, Ms. Schake stepped back from the gay marriage fight to work for Mrs. Obama, a position for which Ms. Shriver recommended her.
2010年，舍克从争取同性恋婚姻的活动中退出，开始为奥巴马夫人工作，这个职位是施赖弗推荐的。
She promoted Mrs. Obama’s “Let’s Move!” initiative to fight childhood obesity, spreading the first lady’s message with appearances on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” and “Top Chef,” and in her famous “Mom Dancing” routine with Mr. Fallon, which generated 22 million views on YouTube.
她宣传奥巴马夫人对抗儿童肥胖的“让我们动起来”(Let’s Move!)倡议，让奥巴马夫人在《艾伦秀》(The Ellen DeGeneres Show)和《顶级大厨》(Top Chef)上亮相。奥巴马夫人与法伦跳的“妈妈舞”著名视频在YouTube上被观看了2200万次。
“She was in California, so she didn’t have an ingrained Washington way of doing things, which I think let her take a fresh look at things,” said Susan Sher, the former chief of staff to Mrs. Obama who hired Ms. Schake.
“当时她在加州，所以没有根深蒂固的华盛顿行事方式，我觉得这让她能用新视角看待事情，”当时聘用舍克的奥巴马夫人前幕僚长苏珊·谢尔(Susan Sher)说。
Can Kristina Schake help Hillary Clinton come across as more than ‘likable enough’?After a position in the West Wing fell through, Ms. Schake joined L’Oréal USA as the cosmetics company’s chief communications officer. Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to Mr. Obama, said he thought Ms. Schake had “retired from politics” before the Clinton campaign called.
克里斯蒂娜·舍克能帮助希拉里·克林顿把形象提升到不只是“够讨人喜欢”的地步吗？舍克落选白宫西翼的某个职位之后，加入了欧莱雅美国公司(L’Oréal USA)，担任这家化妆品公司的首席联络官。奥巴马的前高级顾问丹·法伊弗(Dan Pfeiffer)说，他认为，在克林顿夫人的竞选团队给舍克致电前，她已经“退出政治舞台”了。
“She is happiest when she’s working on things like the marriage campaign,” said her older sister, Kori Schake, a prominent Republican who held a senior position on President George W. Bush’s National Security Council. “She was very much drawn to the historic opportunity to help Secretary Clinton.”
“她在为争取同性恋结婚权利等活动忙碌时最开心，”她姐姐科丽·舍克(Kori Schake)说。科丽·舍克是著名的共和党人，曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)担任高级职位。“她对帮助前国务卿克林顿的这一历史机会非常感兴趣。”
The bipartisan Schake sisters stick together despite their political differences. Kristina Schake used to intervene whenever their parents’ liberal friends in Northern California tried to debate the Iraq War. “She’d say, ‘We’re so happy Kori is home for the holidays, please don’t make her do her job,’ ” Kori said.
尽管舍克姐妹分属两党，但是关系依然亲密。过去，每当她们父母的北加州自由主义朋友们讨论伊拉克战争时，克里斯蒂娜·舍克都会打断他们。“她会说，‘科丽能在节日里回家我们很高兴，请不要再让她工作了，’”科丽说。
A relatively new New Yorker, Kristina Schake lives with her longtime boyfriend, an Albanian journalist she met in Rome. She frequently attends exhibitions of photography and art, and walks the streets listening to Bowery Boys podcasts about the history of the subway system. She will likely work out of the Clinton campaign’s headquarters in Brooklyn.
克里斯蒂娜·舍克对纽约还比较陌生。她和相伴多年的男友住在一起。她男友是一位阿尔巴尼亚记者，他们是在罗马相识的。她经常参观摄影展和艺术展，走在街上会收听鲍厄里男孩(Bowery Boys)在podcast里关于纽约地铁系统历史的广播。她很可能会在位于布鲁克林的克林顿夫人竞选总部工作。
It remains to be seen whether veteran Clinton aides will empower newcomers like Ms. Schake and whether Mrs. Clinton will be open to trying new things that could prove risky. Ms. Schake will work under her friend Jennifer Palmieri, a former White House communications director who also worked in the Clinton Administration. Other veteran Clinton aides, including Mandy Grunwald, will also advise, particularly about Mrs. Clinton’s backstory.
克林顿夫人的资深助理们是否会授权给舍克等新来者，克林顿夫人是否愿意尝试可能有风险的新事物，一切仍需拭目以待。舍克将在她的朋友珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)手下工作，帕尔米耶里是前白宫联络主管，也曾为克林顿政府工作。克林顿夫人的其他资深助理——包括曼迪· 格伦沃尔德(Mandy Grunwald)——也将提供建议，特别是关于克林顿夫人的背景故事。
A person familiar with Clinton camp discussions who could not go on the record before the campaign’s official start said Mrs. Clinton does not need a “life coach,” and that Ms. Schake’s value will be to figure out new ways to spread the former Secretary of State’s central message of lifting the middle class.
一位熟悉克林顿夫人阵营讨论的人士说，克林顿夫人不需要“生活教练”，舍克的价值将在于寻找传播这位前国务卿的主要理念——提升中产阶级——的新方法。在竞选正式开始前，这位人士不便透露身份。
To that end, Ms. Schake, whom Anita Dunn, a former White House communications director, described as “an island of tranquillity and calm when everything is going crazy,” often sits in on early strategy and policy meetings, in addition to typical powwows about communications and press coverage.
因此，舍克除了参加典型的关于通讯和新闻报道的会议之外，还经常列席早期战略和政策会议。前白宫通讯主管安妮塔·邓恩(Anita Dunn)说，舍克“在一切都变得疯狂时依然保持安宁平静”。
No matter how effective Mrs. Clinton’s message, voters tend to have an intangible hankering when it comes to presidential candidates. “You have to feel a person’s warmth and humanness, because you’re going to see them in your living room for four years,” said Mr. Reiner, a longtime Clinton supporter.
不管克林顿夫人的理念多么打动人，投票人似乎对总统候选人有一种无形的渴望。“你必须能感觉到候选人的温暖和人情味，因为未来四年你将经常在客厅的电视里看到他们，”赖纳说。他是克林顿夫人的长期支持者。