Well, that sure escalated quickly.
哟，形势恶化得很快呢。
“That” was Donald J. Trump’s inaugural news conference as a duly elected United States president-to-be, in which he called BuzzFeed a “failing pile of garbage,” dismissed CNN as “fake news” and more or less told the whole lot of reporters at Trump Tower to stuff it when it comes to his unreleased tax returns because everyday Americans don’t care and, anyway, “I won.”
这“形势”指的是唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)作为堂堂美国候任总统举行的首次新闻发布会，他在会上称BuzzFeed是“一堆快倒闭的垃圾”，斥责CNN发布“假新闻”，在提到他未公布的纳税申报表时，他差不多是让特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的全体记者少管闲事，因为美国人绝不会在乎那个，不管怎样，“我赢了。”
There were two big lessons in the Wednesday morning melee.
在周三上午的混战中，我们汲取了两个重要教训。
1. Mr. Trump remains a master media manipulator who used his first news briefing since July to expertly delegitimize the news media and make it the story rather than the chaotic swirl of ethical questions that engulf his transition.
第一，特朗普依然是一个操纵媒体的高手，他利用自己在7月份之后的第一个新闻简报会，巧妙地质疑新闻媒体的合法性，让它成为大新闻，而不是笼罩着过渡期的道德质疑所掀起的混乱漩涡。
2. The news media remains an unwitting accomplice in its own diminishment as it fails to get a handle on how to cover this new and wholly unprecedented president.
第二，江河日下的新闻媒体依然在无意中充当着特朗普的帮凶，因为它没有把握好该如何报道这位前所未有的新总统。
It better figure things out, fast, because it has found itself at the edge of the cliff. And our still-functioning (fingers crossed) democracy needs it to stay on the right side of the drop.
媒体必须快速找到对策，因为它已处于悬崖的边缘。我们依然在运行的民主（上帝保佑），在衰落过程中需要媒体站在正确的一边。
Journalists should know this by now: Trump’s gonna Trump. But it’s time for them to take a page from the 12-step playbook — accept the things they cannot change and then find the courage to change the things they can, in the right ways, not the wrong ways.
到如今，记者必须明白这一点：特朗普会一直特朗普下去。但是现在，记者们需要从12步攻略里学一招，接受不可改变的事实，然后鼓起勇气去改变能够改变的事——以正确的方式，而不是错误的方式。
Given Mr. Trump’s past behavior, there was hardly any doubt that he was going to kneecap his inquisitors on Wednesday. It’s a passion, after all, if not a strategic imperative.
考虑到特朗普过去的行为，他几乎肯定会在周三报复他的质问者。毕竟，那是他最爱做的事——尽管策略上不见得是必需的。
But BuzzFeed handed him the steel rod hours before, with its decision to publish an unvarnished dossier filled with unsubstantiated, compromising reports about Mr. Trump allegedly collected by Russian agents, presumably for blackmail purposes.
但是，在那数小时前，BuzzFeed给了他一个报复工具，原封不动地公布了一份卷宗，里面充满关于特朗普的未经证实的、有失体面的报告，据说那是俄罗斯特工收集的，很可能是为了要挟特朗普。
BuzzFeed said it was “publishing the full document so that Americans can make up their own minds about allegations about the president-elect that have circulated at the highest levels of the U.S. government.” Ben Smith, the BuzzFeed editor in chief, wrote that “we have always erred on the side of publishing” and that “publishing this dossier reflects how we see the job of reporters in 2017.”
BuzzFeed称，它是在“发布已在美国政府最高层传阅的完整文件，以便美国人自己对候任总统所受指控作出判断”。BuzzFeed主编本·史密斯(Ben Smith)写道，“我们从来是倾向于发表的”，“发表这份卷宗反映出我们对2017年记者工作的看法”。
Mr. Smith’s stated rationale highlights the extent to which WikiLeaks and Gawker, which is now defunct, have changed the nature of journalism. Both have at times taken a “publish first, fill in the answers — or don’t — later” approach, but they held particular, outsider roles in the journalistic firmament. And both have run into great trouble because of their guns-blazing styles, in Gawker’s case, fatally (if wrongfully).
史密斯所申明的理念突显出维基解密(WikiLeaks)和已不复存在的高客传媒(Gawker)在多大程度上改变了新闻业的本质。它们都偶尔采取过“先发表再回答——或不回答”的方式，不过它们都在新闻领域扮演独特的局外人角色。而且它们都因为这种不断开火的风格而陷入大麻烦，高客甚至因此灭亡（尽管有失公允）。
BuzzFeed, under Mr. Smith, has built up a fine traditional news team that has won journalism awards precisely because it succeeded in the ultimate purposes of its craft: to establish fact from fiction and enhance its readers’ understanding of reality. That’s the opposite of pumping out a bunch of unsubstantiated allegations and then leaving it to readers to “make up their own minds” about them with no reportorial guidance.
BuzzFeed在史密斯的领导下建起了一支优良的传统新闻团队，获得了一些新闻奖项，正是因为它成功地实现了这项职业的终极目标：弄清真相，增加读者对事实的了解。这与抛出一堆未经证实的指控，不提供任何报道指向，让读者自己去“判断”的做法正好相反。
You can argue that the dossier was going to get out there anyway. But it hadn’t until BuzzFeed published it, even though many news organizations, including this one, had the dossier for months. And had they leaked by some other means, it would be up to journalists to establish their veracity; ignore them if possible, debunk them if necessary.
你可能会反驳说，那个卷宗终究是要曝光的。但在BuzzFeed公布之前，它没有曝光，尽管很多新闻机构，包括时报，已拥有该卷宗数月。如果它以其他方式泄露，那将由记者来确定它的真实性——可能会根据事实置之不理，也可能会根据需要揭穿它。
That’s what BuzzFeed has done with its top-notch reporting on the “fake news” phenomenon, helping to shine an early light on the false stories so many Americans were sharing on Facebook and other social media platforms throughout the campaign.
BuzzFeed在对“假新闻”现象的一流报道中正是这样做的，帮助尽早揭穿很多美国人在竞选期间在Facebook等社交媒体上转发的虚假故事。
But every journalistic misstep gives more fodder to people who want to stop the efforts against “fake news” by turning the tables and labeling those efforts — or any other solid journalism they don’t like — as “fake news” as well, corrupting the term for their own purposes (a classic case of “no, you are!”).
但是，新闻业的每一个失误，都会给那些想阻止对“假新闻”进行打击的人提供更多素材，他们反守为攻，指责那些努力——或者其他任何他们不喜欢的可靠新闻——为“假新闻”，为达到自己的目的讹用这个词（这是典型的“不，你才是！”的例子）。
That’s what Mr. Trump did Wednesday morning.
特朗普周三上午正是这样做的。
In calling BuzzFeed a “failing piece of garbage,” Mr. Trump gave it a cri de coeur. But there was collateral damage: Mr. Trump’s “fake news” charge against CNN, in front of many millions of Americans, went directly at the network’s core purpose as a global news provider.
特朗普称BuzzFeed是“一堆快倒闭的垃圾”，对它进行了激烈指责。但它也产生了附带伤害：特朗普对着成百上千万美国人指责CNN报道“假新闻”，直捣该新闻网作为全球新闻提供者的核心目标。
CNN drew Mr. Trump’s hostility by breaking the news on Tuesday that a former British spy had compiled the Russia dossier and that intelligence officials included a synopsis of it in briefing materials for the president-elect. Once CNN opened the door, BuzzFeed followed by publishing the document itself.
周二，CNN报道称，一名前英国间谍整理了这份俄罗斯卷宗，而情报官员向候任总统提交的简报中包括这份卷宗的摘要。CNN因此引起了特朗普的敌视。但CNN开了这个口之后，BuzzFeed马上公布了文件本身。
But as CNN pointed out, it did not share the details of the memos, and it did not even link to the BuzzFeed report, despite false claims to the contrary by Kellyanne Conway, Mr. Trump’s adviser. Its decision, the network said, was “vastly different than BuzzFeed’s decision to publish unsubstantiated memos.”
但是，正如CNN指出的那样，它没有分享简报的细节，甚至没有给出BuzzFeed报告的链接，尽管特朗普的顾问凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)做出了相反的不实指控。该电视台表示，自己的决定“与BuzzFeed公布未经证实的简报的决定截然不同”。
That, in turn, drew protest from Mr. Smith of BuzzFeed, who said he was “not going to participate in an attempt to divide the media against each other.”
那又引起了BuzzFeed的史密斯的抗议，他说自己“不会掉进让媒体自相残杀的圈套”。
And so, Mr. Trump won again, by succeeding in doing just that. It was all part of a show in which he used news organizations as props in their own lampooning while he played them off each other with labels of good and bad and selectively answered their policy questions.
特朗普又赢了——靠的正是让媒体自相残杀。那是他的策略的一部分，他利用新闻媒体的互相嘲讽，给他们贴上优劣标签，选择性地回答他们的政策问题，因此对他们进行挑拨。
A united front would have given the reporters stronger footing. But that was woefully lacking when Mr. Trump shouted down Jim Acosta of CNN, who said Mr. Trump’s press secretary, Sean Spicer, threatened to eject him.
统一的战线会让记者拥有更强大的阵地。但是当特朗普压制CNN的吉姆·阿科斯塔(Jim Acosta)时——阿科斯塔说特朗普的新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)威胁要把他赶出去——严重缺乏这种团结。
The other reporters in the room readily took Mr. Acosta’s place, happy to have their own questions answered. But they could be next. They’re going to have to decide how much they want to abide by Mr. Trump’s decision to selectively quarantine colleagues whose coverage he does not like.
发布会上的其他记者急于取代阿科斯塔的位置，乐于看到自己的问题得到回答。但他们可能就是下一个被赶出去的人。他们将不得不决定愿意在多大程度上服从特朗普的决定，选择性地孤立那些不招特朗普喜欢的同行。
There is some precedent for doing the right thing here, from the early days of the Obama administration, when it questioned Fox News’s credentials as a “news organization.” That was followed by an attempt by the Treasury Department to exclude Fox News from a round of interviews, which the rest of the news media resisted. Speaking in Fox News’s defense, Jake Tapper, then of ABC News, publicly criticized the administration for its effort to exclude “one of our sister organizations.”
在这方面，有正确做法的先例，奥巴马政府曾在执政初期质疑Fox新闻频道(Fox News)作为“新闻机构”的资格。之后，财政部试图将Fox新闻排除在一轮采访之外，遭到其他新闻媒体抵制。时任ABC新闻频道(ABC News)记者的杰克·塔珀(Jake Tapper)站出来维护Fox新闻频道，公开批评奥巴马政府试图驱逐“我们的一个姐妹机构”。
So it was fitting that, later on Wednesday, Shepard Smith of Fox News got behind CNN. “It is our observation that its correspondents followed journalistic standards and that neither they nor any other journalists should be subjected to belittling and delegitimizing by the president-elect of the United States,” he said on his program.
周三晚些时候，Fox新闻频道的谢泼德·史密斯(Shepard Smith)力挺CNN——这个举动很合时宜。“据我们观察，CNN的记者遵循新闻准则，他们或任何其他记者都不应该受到美国候任总统的轻视，他们的合法性不应受到质疑，”他在自己的节目中说。
(The same couldn’t be said for his colleague, the opinion host Sean Hannity — proudly “not a journalist” — who on Wednesday night celebrated the news briefing as “the single greatest beatdown of the alt-left abusively biased mainstream media in the history of the country.”)
（而他的同事、评论主持人肖恩·汉尼提[Sean Hannity]就不是这样了。他为自己“不是记者”感到自豪，在周三晚上称赞这次新闻发布会是“美国历史上对极具偏见的另类左翼主流媒体的最有力打压”。）
Mr. Acosta, interestingly, made history last spring by becoming the first American journalist to ask a question of a Cuban leader, Raúl Castro, since the earliest days of the Castro regime. It was a hopeful sign of a new day for press freedom in the restrictive communist country.
有趣的是，去年春天，阿科斯塔成为自卡斯特罗政权建立以来第一个向古巴领导人——劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)——提问的美国记者，因此被载入史册。那是这个管控严格的共产主义国家进入新闻自由新时代的一个充满希望的迹象。
His run-in with Mr. Trump, on the other hand, is a bad sign for press freedom at home. The news media can’t afford a backslide. It’s going to have to do its part to avoid one.
然而，他与特朗普的冲突则是美国国内新闻自由的一个不祥之兆。新闻媒体承受不起退步的代价。要想避免这种退步，媒体需要尽自己的一份力。