The Cincinnati police are investigating after a 4-year-old boy slipped into a zoo enclosure on Saturday, leading to a tense, chaotic scene in which the male gorilla that dragged the boy around was shot dead by zoo workers.
周六，一个4岁的男孩掉进一家动物园的一个封闭场地，引发了紧张、混乱的一幕，并导致一只拖拽他的雄性大猩猩被动物园工作人员开枪打死。目前，辛辛那提警方已对此事展开调查。
The shooting of the teenage gorilla, named Harambe, prompted a chorus of online criticism, vigils for the lost animal, complaints by animal rights activists and petitions blaming the boy’s mother. The episode was even raised at a news conference held Tuesday by Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.
那是一只十几岁的大猩猩，名叫哈兰贝(Hrambe)。他被开枪打死一事引发了网上的批评声、守夜活动、动物权益活动人士的投诉和指责小男孩的母亲的请愿书。甚至在稳获共和党总统候选人提名的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)周二召开的新闻发布会上，也有人提及此事。
As video showing the boy and the huge gorilla continued to be played on television and online, officials raised the possibility on Tuesday of criminal charges. Julie Wilson, a spokeswoman with the Hamilton County prosecutor’s office, said the matter had been referred to the Cincinnati Police Department for investigation.
周二当天，官方表达了提出刑事指控的可能性，而记录了小男孩和那只身形庞大的大猩猩在一起时场景的视频继续在电视和网上播放。哈密尔顿县检察官办公室的女发言人朱莉·威尔逊(Julie Wilson)表示，此事已交由辛辛那提警察局展开调查。
Wilson added that any investigation would not be directed at either the zoo or the mother, but that it would be a “general” inquiry by the police, who would then confer with the prosecutor’s office.
威尔逊接着表示，所有调查都不会只针对动物园和小男孩的母亲中的任何一方，警方会进行“一般”调查，并在此后与检察官办公室进行讨论。
“At this point, everybody is just looking into it to see what’s going on,” she said. “I can’t tell you that anyone will be charged with anything.”
“此时此刻，所有人的调查都是为了弄清楚究竟发生了什么，”她说。“我没法告诉大家会以什么罪名指控什么人。”
Lt. Stephen Saunders, a spokesman for the Cincinnati Police Department, said the department was not releasing the name of the family.
辛辛那提警察局(Cincinnati Police Department)发言人警督史蒂芬·桑德斯(Stephen Saunders)表示，警局不会公布小男孩一家的姓名。
In addition, an animal rights group said on Tuesday that it had filed a negligence complaint against the zoo with the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
此外，一个动物权益保护团体周二表示，其已向美国农业部(U.S. Department of Agriculture)提交了对该动物园工作失职的投诉。
The boy slipped through the Gorilla World exhibit’s barrier while visiting with his mother and fell into a shallow moat on Saturday afternoon. Videos of the encounter posted to Twitter showed the silverback gorilla dragging him around like a toy, while a woman could be heard calling to the sobbing child: “Mommy loves you! I’m right here.”
周六下午，那个小男孩在和母亲一起游玩时，悄悄穿过了“大猩猩世界”(Gorilla World)展区的隔离护栏，掉进了一条浅沟里。小男孩和大猩猩相遇的视频被发布在了Twitter上。视频显示，那只银背大猩猩将小男孩像玩具一样拖着四处走动，这期间能听到一名女子在对啜泣的小男孩喊道：“妈妈爱你！我就在这里。”
After about 10 minutes, zoo workers shot and killed the animal. The boy, who was hurt but not severely, was taken to a hospital and released on Saturday night, zoo officials said.
大约10分钟后，动物园工作人员开枪打死了那只大猩猩。动物园的官员称，受了伤但不严重的小男孩被送往医院，并于周六晚上出院。
Thane Maynard, the zoo’s director, has forcefully rejected criticism of the decision to kill the gorilla instead of using a tranquilizer dart. He said at a news conference on Monday that the dart could have caused the animal, capable of crushing a coconut with his hands, to become even more agitated.
对于决定杀死大猩猩而不使用麻醉枪受到的指责，动物园园长塞恩·梅纳德(Thane Maynard)进行了强硬的反驳。他在周一的新闻发布会上表示，麻醉枪也许会导致能够用双手把椰子砸烂的大猩猩变得更焦躁。
The animal rights group Stop Animal Exploitation Now said the zoo had been cited twice recently for problems with its enclosures and facilities. In the negligence complaint it filed with the Department of Agriculture against the zoo, it called for the maximum federal penalty of $10,000 per infraction per animal, it said in a statement.
名为“现在就停止动物剥削”(Stop Animal Exploitation Now)的动物权益组织称，这家动物园最近已经两次因为场地和设施的问题被提及。该组织在一份声明中称，已向农业部投诉该动物园失职，并在投诉信中呼吁对每只动物涉及的每项违规处以联邦最高罚款1万美元。
“The failure of the Cincinnati Zoo to adequately construct this enclosure to protect both the public and the animal held prisoner there is a clear and fatal violation of the Animal Welfare Act,” the group said in its letter to the Agriculture Department.
“辛辛那提动物园(Cincinnati Zoo)未能妥善修建这片场地，以保护民众和被囚禁在里面的动物，这一点显而易见，严重违反《动物福利法》(Animal Welfare Act)，”该组织在写给农业部的信中说。
The zoo said in a statement after the killing that the boy had climbed through a public barrier at the exhibit. The two female gorillas in the exhibit were successfully recalled, but Harambe stayed in the yard with the child. The video showed the gorilla sometimes standing over the boy in what appeared to be a protective posture, but then darting through the shallow moat, dragging the child behind him.
打死大猩猩后，该动物园在一份声明中表示，小男孩爬过了展区的一道公共防护栏。他掉进去后，展区里的两只雌性大猩猩被成功地叫了回去，但哈兰贝留了下来。视频显示，那只大猩猩有时候会用看似是保护姿态的姿势站在小男孩旁边。但随后，它便在浅水沟里猛冲，身后拖着小男孩。
Maynard said the child’s head had banged on concrete. The episode generated widespread reaction, with some people criticizing the zoo, others supporting the mother and online petitions accusing her of negligence. Animal rights supporters organized a vigil outside the zoo in remembrance of the gorilla.
梅纳德表示，小男孩的头部碰到了混凝土上。此事引发了广泛的反响，一些人指责动物园，其他人支持孩子的母亲，网上的请愿书则指责她失职。动物权益支持者在动物园外面组织了一场守夜活动，纪念死去的大猩猩。
On Tuesday, Trump was asked at a news conference how he felt about the killing of the gorilla. He said: “I think it’s a very tough call. It was amazing because there were moments with the gorilla, the way he held that child, it was almost like a mother holding a baby. Looked so beautiful and calm, and there were moments where it looked pretty dangerous.
周二当天，特朗普在新闻发布会上被问及对杀死大猩猩一事作何感想。他说：”我觉得这是一个非常艰难的决定。很奇妙，因为有时候，他抱着那个孩子的样子几乎像是一位母亲抱着自己的宝宝。看上去那么美丽和祥和，但有些时候，看上去的确很危险。
“I thought it was so beautiful to watch that powerful, almost 500-pound gorilla, the way he dealt with that little boy, but it just takes one second,” Trump continued.
“看着那只强壮的，体重几乎达到500磅的大猩猩，他对待那个小男孩的方式，我觉得特别美好，但只用一秒钟就可能出现其他情况，”特朗普接着说。
“It just takes one little flick of his finger, and I will tell you they probably had no choice.”
“只用轻轻动一下他的手指，所以我要告诉你们的是，他们可能别无选择。”