ROME — For 136 years, the Honor Guard to the Royal Tombs of the Pantheon has stood watch over the mortal remains of the Savoy kings who formerly ruled Italy, paying a discreet, sober tribute to a once-powerful dynasty in recognition of its role in unifying the country.
罗马——136年来，万神殿皇陵仪仗队一直守卫着曾经统治意大利的萨伏依王朝国王的遗骸，向这个曾经不可一世的王朝表达朴素而庄重的敬意，纪念他们在国家统一过程中扮演的角色。
Standing ramrod straight at the sides of the massive mausoleums commemorating King Vittorio Emanuele II and his son Umberto I, they are meant to remain silent, though more often than not they end up fielding questions from inquisitive tourists.
仪仗队卫兵笔直地站在维托里奥·埃马努埃莱二世(King Vittorio Emanuele II)和儿子翁贝托一世(Umberto I)宏伟的陵墓两侧，他们本应该保持沉默，但却常常要应付好奇的游客提出的各种问题。
That is, when they are present. Despite recent efforts to attract new members, the ranks of the Honor Guard have grown thin, and the tombs are often unattended.
但他们也并不总在那里。尽管最近一直在努力吸引新成员，仪仗队的人数仍在减少，皇陵常常无人看护。
The guards themselves attribute the decline to the waning commitment to the Savoy kings among a younger generation of Italians who they say have forgotten values like patriotism. Others, however, point to the checkered history of the former royal family, and the troubles of their current heirs, which have done more to inspire tabloid headlines than passion for the family’s long role in Italy.
仪仗队自身把原因归结为，萨伏依国王在意大利年轻一代心目中的地位在降低，他们说，这些年轻人已经忘记了爱国主义这样的价值观。而另外一些人则将其归因于这个曾经的皇室家族盛衰无常的历史，以及他们如今的后代惹出的种种麻烦，后者更多时候成了八卦报纸的头条，对家族在意大利的漫长历史却没多大兴趣。
King Vittorio Emanuele II, who died in 1878, played an essential part in founding modern Italy, and his memorial at the Pantheon in Rome is dedicated to the “Father of the Homeland.” It also houses Umberto I, who was assassinated in 1900. Umberto’s wife, Queen Margherita of Savoy, is buried next to him.
逝世于1878年的维托里奥·埃马努埃莱二世对现代意大利的建立起到了关键作用，万神殿里的埃马努埃莱二世纪念馆将他称作“祖国之父”。万神殿里还安放着1900年被暗杀的翁贝托一世的遗体。翁贝托的妻子——萨伏伊皇后玛格丽特(Queen Margherita)——就葬在他旁边。
But the royal family was tainted for supporting the rise of Fascism in the years between the world wars, and in 1938 King Vittorio Emanuele III signed racial laws that discriminated against Jews. The king eventually dismissed Mussolini in 1943, but after signing an armistice with the Allies, he and his government fled German-occupied Rome for Brindisi, in Puglia, effectively leaving Italy’s troops leaderless.
但该皇室家族却因在两次世界大战之间支持法西斯主义的崛起而名声受损，维托里奥·埃马努埃莱三世还在1938年签署了歧视犹太人的种族法案。这位国王最终在1943年解除了墨索里尼的职务，但在与盟军签署停火协议后，他和当局政府逃离了德军占领的罗马，前往普利亚大区的布林迪西，致使意大利军队群龙无首。
The male descendants of the family were formally exiled as punishment in 1948, two years after Italians voted in a referendum to abolish the monarchy in favor of a republican government. That ban was lifted in 2002, but the family’s reputation never fully recovered.
1948年，意大利公投废除君主制、选择共和政府两年后，这个家族的男性子嗣被正式驱逐作为惩戒。驱逐令在2002年被取消，但家族的名誉从未彻底恢复。
Even now, some visitors to the Royal Tombs of the Pantheon “come to insult us,” said Giuseppe Persico, a police officer from Velletri, a town of about 50,000 in the Lazio region, as he carried out Honor Guard service on a hot August morning. “They think that Italy today is better than it was before,” he added disdainfully.
即使现在，有些参观万神殿的游客还“来侮辱我们”，一名正在仪仗队中值岗的朱塞佩·佩西克(Giuseppe Persico)说道，八月的早晨天气炎热。他是一名来自韦莱特里(Velletri)的警察，该镇位于拉齐奥区，人口五万。“他们认为意大利今天比过去要好，”他轻蔑地说。
Those attracted to the Honor Guard are apt to overlook the less-savory parts of the family’s history, or are drawn to what they see as the larger, enduring values that they believe are represented in the institution of the monarchy. Many lament that young Italians feel little sense of civic duty.
被仪仗队所吸引的人们往往忽略了家族历史中不那么光彩的篇章，或者是受到了在他们看来君主制所代表的更宏大、永恒的价值观的驱使。许多人抱怨称，年轻的意大利人没有公民责任感。
“Believing in values like patriotism is fairly atypical among people my age,” acknowledged Carmelo Raia, 22, a law student who last month traveled to Rome from Agrigento, Sicily, to stand guard in the Pantheon. Like most other new recruits, Mr. Raia labels himself a “history buff” who was drawn to the guards because of their emphasis on national identity, history and tradition. “My contemporaries don’t even know the meaning of the word patriotism,” he said.
“在我这个年龄的人中，信仰爱国主义这类价值观是另类，”22岁的卡梅洛·拉亚(Carmelo Raia)说。拉亚是法律系学生，上个月从西西里岛的阿格里真托来到罗马守卫万神殿。就像多数其他新兵一样，拉亚说自己是一个“历史迷”，被仪仗队的士兵所感召，因为他们重视民族身份、历史和传统。“我的同代人根本不知道爱国主义这个词的意思，”他说。
For others, the values embodied in the Savoy dynasty are less than noble, and there is little sentiment in Italy for any kind of restoration.
对于其他人来说，萨伏伊王朝代表的价值观谈不上崇高，意大利也没有任何要复兴这种价值的意思。
The guards are commendable, because “right or wrong they believe in the ideals of the institution,” said Lorenzo Del Boca, an essayist who has written extensively about the royal family. “But we only had disasters from the House of Savoy. With the exception of Umberto II, who was king for 40 days, there is little to say that is positive,” he said.
这些士兵值得称赞，因为“不管怎样，他们是相信那个制度的理想，”洛伦索·德尔博卡(Lorenzo Del Boca)撰写过大量关于这个皇室家族的文章。“但我们从萨伏伊家族只得到了灾难。除了担任国王40天的翁贝托二世，没有什么积极的东西可言，”他说。
Trying to attract recruits, the Honor Guard relaxed its requirement that members belong to the military, and gradually opened to civilians. The spike in membership — topping 5,000 guards — peaked in 2006, a few years after the Savoy male heirs were allowed to return to Italy.
为了吸引新成员，仪仗队放宽了要求，成员不必来自军方，逐渐对平民开放。成员最多的时候——超过5000名士兵——是在2006年，在萨伏伊的男性子嗣被允许回到意大利的几年之后。
But numbers have dropped since then, in part because of the prince’s legal troubles, but also because the novelty of the monarchy’s return wore off. Today, the average age of the guards is between 50 and 60, and only about 5 percent are under 30.
但在此之后，这个数字出现了下滑，一个原因是这位王子在法律上惹下的麻烦，同时也因为皇室后裔回归祖国的新鲜感已经退去。今天，仪仗队士兵的平均年龄在50到60岁之间，只有约5%年龄在30岁以下。
A youth honor guard — the Giovane Guardia, or the Young Guard — took root, “but they’ve never been that numerous,” said Capt. Ugo d’Atri, a retired navy officer who has tried to broaden the appeal of the Honor Guard since he was named its president in 2003. “And this I regret.”
一个青年仪仗队(Giovane Guardia)开始形成，但队长乌戈·达特里(Ugo d’Atri)说“人数一直不多”。达特里是一名退役海军军官，2003年被任命为队长以来，他一直试图增加仪仗队的吸引力。“这让我感到遗憾。”
Anyone can apply to become an honor guard, as long as the applicant does not have a criminal record and shares the ideals the institute promotes. But it can be a tough sell.
任何人都可以申请加入仪仗队，只要申请者没有犯罪记录，且认同机构倡导的理念。但要招到人也并不容易。
“Our store offers the kind of merchandise that doesn’t always find buyers,” Captain d’Atri said, admitting the difficulties he has had in increasing the guard’s ranks with like-minded people. “We’re living in an increasingly global, consumerism-driven society. It’s not a place where strong sentiments and values prevail.”
“我们的商店提供的商品并不总是能找到买家，”队长说，他承认寻找志同道合的人来壮大仪仗队面临很多困难。“我们生活在一个越来越全球化、受到消费主义驱动的社会。这不是一个强烈情感和价值观占上风的世界。”
The institute is not affiliated with any political party, and is not a revanchist movement. But it has been campaigning — with petitions and support of parliamentary bills — to bury in the Pantheon the remains of the four Savoy family members who died outside Italy during the exile. They are buried in Egypt and France.
该机构不附属于任何政党，也不是一个复仇主义组织。但它一直在呼吁——通过请愿以及对议会法案的支持——把四名萨伏伊家族成员的遗骸埋在万神殿。后者在流亡期间死在异乡，目前葬在埃及和法国。