Before Daniel Radcliffe became the most famous child actor in history, he was just a child: an only child, a poor sleeper, a nonstop talker, a picky eater. He was also disarmingly sweet. In the screen test he took at age 10, in 2000, for the first Harry Potter film, “Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone,” he smiles brightly, ebullient, his delight in being there apparent; he is concentrating, concentrating so hard at one point that he mouths words under his breath while waiting to deliver a line, but even still, when he does finally speak, he is all natural sincerity. His face is a flawless little-boy face, his eyes huge and cerulean blue. One eye occasionally blinks more slowly than the other, but no matter. He turns, compliantly, this way and that when asked. About four minutes into the footage, someone places the iconic round glasses on him, and there he is: Harry Potter, boy wizard, the chosen one. The adult voice on the video says: “Those look good.”
在丹尼尔·雷德克里夫(Daniel Radcliffe)成为史上最著名童星之前，他还只是个孩子：独生子，不好好睡觉、说起话来没完没了、爱挑食。同时，他又是那么的可爱乖巧，令人怜爱。在2000年哈利·波特系列电影的第一部《哈利·波特与魔法石》(Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone)的试镜素材中，10岁的他笑容灿烂，兴奋心情溢于言表。他极为专注地表演，有一刻在等着说下一句时还默念了对方的台词，但等到他开口对词的时候，他表演得那么自然真诚。他长着一张完美无瑕的小男孩的脸，大大的眼睛清澈蔚蓝，眨眼时偶尔一只会比另一只略慢些。他按照要求耐心地转头，先转向一侧，再向另一侧。在这段试镜素材约四分钟处，有人将那标志性的圆框眼镜戴在他脸上，这位哈利·波特、天选的小男巫，就此诞生了。视频中有人说：“看上去真不错。”
Within weeks, Radcliffe, officially cast as Harry Potter, was sitting at a news conference before a roomful of cameras and reporters. One of his first questions from the media: “How do you feel about becoming famous?” Radcliffe brightened: “It’ll be cool!” The crowd laughed.
在这之后的几周，正式成为饰演哈利·波特人选的雷德克里夫，就已坐在新闻发布会上面对满屋子的照相机和记者了。媒体最早提给他的问题之一是：“对于成名你怎么看？”雷德克里夫很开心：“那应该是很酷的事吧！”大家都笑了。
Thirteen years later, on Sept. 2, Radcliffe was on a small boat in Venice, speeding along the Grand Canal toward the Rialto Bridge. The bridge, a 16th-century stone marvel, is one of the biggest tourist attractions in Venice, but on that day, it was merely a convenient viewing station from which wildly waving fans could await Radcliffe’s arrival. Radcliffe was making his way from the Lido, a small resort island that hosts the Venice Film Festival, to a department store that had agreed to publicize, with huge banners, the independent film, “Kill Your Darlings,” that Radcliffe was in town to promote. Young people, mostly girls but a few boys, had been lining up outside the store since the evening before for an autograph-signing. Radcliffe was hoping to lure at least some of his Harry Potter following to see his new film, in which he plays a youth icon of a different order: the poet Allen Ginsberg, during his rebellious late-teenage years.
13年后，9月2日，雷德克里夫泛舟威尼斯，沿大运河向里阿尔托桥疾驰。这座建于16世纪的大理石桥，是威尼斯最著名的景点之一，而此刻，这里变成了狂热粉丝们等待雷德克里夫到来的观望台。雷德克里夫正从利多小岛的威尼斯电影节前往一座商场，那里悬挂了巨篇电影横幅，雷德克里夫此行正是为独立制片电影《杀死汝爱》(Kill Your Darlings)做宣传。早在活动前一天晚上，大批观众即在商场外排起长队，等待签名，这些年轻人中大部分是女孩儿，也有少数男孩儿。雷德克里夫希望吸引至少一部分哈利·波特粉丝来看他的新片，在片中，他饰演了另一种的青年偶像——诗人艾伦·金斯堡(Allen Ginsberg)20岁前那段叛逆不羁的岁月。
Everywhere Radcliffe looked, on tiny side streets opening out to the water, on lacy balconies overhead, people were crammed in close, screaming his name — “Donyell! Donyell!” — and blowing kisses. From the deck, a manager with the film’s Italian distributor called to Radcliffe, “Come up top!” The day was beautiful, with that warm Venetian light bouncing off the water. “I’ve been told not to — sorry!” Radcliffe called back. Radcliffe, who is 24, looked mortified by this precaution, which was not to protect his safety but someone else’s labor. “I’m sorry I’m acting like I care about my hair,” he told me, “but Dan"— his hairstylist — “gave me strict instructions not to make him look like an ass.”
雷德克里夫放眼望去的地方，从邻水的窄街，到头顶饰花的阳台，人们熙熙攘攘，尖叫着他的名字：“丹尼尔！丹尼尔！”，边尖叫边飞吻。岸上，一位影片意大利方的发行商经理向雷德克里夫喊道：“上来！”天色很美，暖暖的威尼斯光影在水面上跳跃。“我被警告不可以……对不起了！”雷德克里夫回喊。雷德克里夫，现年24岁，这样的小心让他有些窘迫，但这倒不是为了自身的完全，主要是为了保护别人的劳动成果。“不好意思，我好像显得对自己的头型特别在乎似的，”他对我说，“但是丹（Dan，他的发型师）给我下了明确指示不要让他丢脸。”
Radcliffe, in person, generally vibrates at a faster frequency than the character that made him famous, but looking out at the awaiting throng, he seemed quiet and focused. After so many years, he is accustomed to the frenzied desire, the crazed crush of fans wanting to see him, capture him on film or claim his autograph; if he was feeling some dread, it was because he already knew that he would be disappointing so many people. “I’m more nervous about the anticipation of feeling bad,” he said. “When you’ve got thousands of people who’ve gotten up at 4 in the morning and think they’re going to get something and they won’t. . . .”
现实中的雷德克里夫比他成名电影中扮演的那个角色更活泼精神些，但看着外面的人群，他显得平静专注。这么多年以来，他已经习惯了粉丝们想要见他一面、对着他拍摄或是索要签名的狂热激情。如果说他有点不安，那是因为他已经知道他要让很多人失望了。“对伤心失落的等待更让我紧张不安，”他说，“如果成千上万的人为了你在凌晨4点钟爬起来，指望着有所收获，而你知道他们要一无所获的话……”
Now the boat inched its way around a tight bend and pulled up to a dock the crowd could not access. Radcliffe’s bodyguard, Sam, never more than an arm’s length away, led him up some stairs and into the glaring artificial light of the department store, which smelled of perfume and wool. From a balcony, Radcliffe took in the view — some 1,500 people, packing the street. A sofa had been set up in one of the in-store boutiques, and a few feet away, behind a barrier, a phalanx of young girls pressed up against one another to get closer to Radcliffe as he, Sam and his publicist tried to get their bearings. In the absence of a clear plan, Radcliffe walked up to the barricade and began signing cellphones, books and T-shirts, but the crowd started to heave and surge — “Che bello!” cried a girl — at which point Sam pulled Radcliffe away. (Laconic, 6 foot 3 and movie-star handsome, Sam — who agreed to be identified by only his first name — alternates monthly with another bodyguard; one or the other accompanies Radcliffe everywhere.)
此时，船徐徐驶入一处狭窄的弯道，停靠在人群不能接近的码头。雷德克里夫的保镖萨姆(Sam)不离左右，引他上了几级台阶，进入灯光炫目、漫着香水和羊毛制品味道的商场里。在阳台上，雷德克里夫将场面尽收眼底，1500多人挤在那条街巷。在商场里的一家精品店内，一席沙发已经摆好，几尺之遥的隔离带外，挤满了要近睹雷德克里夫真容的年轻女孩儿们，而他、萨姆以及公关人员正试图突围。并未提前精细打算，雷德克里夫走向隔离带开始为粉丝们在手机、书籍、T恤上签名，但人群很快开始沸腾失控，“Che bello!”（意大利语，意为“太美好了！”——译注）一个女孩儿高喊着，这时萨姆把雷德克里夫拉开了（这位简洁干练，身高6英尺3英寸[约1米9——译注]，英俊不逊电影明星的萨姆，仅同意公布他的名而隐去姓氏，他与另一位保镖按月轮换，不离雷德克里夫左右）。
Once an orderly line formed, Radcliffe stood and signed autographs, as one of the 12 security guards hired for the event pushed the girls along to keep things moving. “Can I get a hug?” one girl asked. “No, but it’s lovely meeting you!” Radcliffe said. Another young woman was shaking with emotion. “Are you O.K.?” he nervously asked. (“It only makes it worse if you’re nice,” he later observed, miserably.) At one point, he scrawled an autograph on a piece of paper, then threw it away quickly. “That one’s no good.” A vein in his forehead had become more visible than usual.
队伍排好后，雷德克里夫站在那里继续签名，活动雇佣的12名保镖确保女孩儿们签完名后不要滞留。“我能拥抱你一下吗？”一个女孩儿问。“不行，不过我很高兴见到你！”雷德克里夫答道。另一个女孩儿激动得发抖。“你还好吧？”雷德克里夫担心地问到（“你越是表现得很亲和，情况就越糟。”他后来察觉到这点，十分难过）。有一刻，他将刚签的名勾涂掉，很快把那张纸扔掉。“那张签得不好。”他额上的一根青筋此刻比平时更显眼些。
Once he hit the 500 mark, after about an hour, Radcliffe spoke to a video camera, apologizing to all those who were still in line outside and would not get to meet him and thanking them for coming. As someone broke the news to the waiting girls that Radcliffe was leaving, wails broke out; Radcliffe was ushered, with Sam just behind him, back down the stairwell. He ducked around a corner, finally alone. He lighted a cigarette. “Are you all right?” his publicist asked. Radcliffe, pale, prone to headaches, nodded.
签到500份后，已经过去大约一个小时了，雷德克里夫对着摄像机发表了演讲，对还在外面排队等候的见不到他的粉丝们致歉，并感谢他们来这里看他。雷德克里夫要离去的消息一传出，还在等候的女孩儿们开始痛哭。雷德克里夫被护送出来，萨姆紧随其后，下了楼梯。他躲进一角，才得空独处片刻。他点燃一只烟。“你没事吧？”他的公关工作人员询问。雷德克里夫点点头，脸色苍白，饱受头痛困扰。
A 25-minute boat ride later, he was back at the Lido and being rushed into a black car. He had barely settled in when the driver turned to him: “I’m so sorry, sir, can I ask you to sign for my sons?” Radcliffe did not hesitate. “Oh, yes, of course!” he said, and the driver passed him a napkin and a pen.
25分钟的船程后，他又回到了利多小岛，匆忙钻进一辆黑色轿车。还没坐稳，司机就转过头来问：“对不起，先生，我可以求您为我儿子签个名吗？”雷德克里夫毫无犹豫之色，说：“哦，当然可以！”司机递给他一张餐巾布和一支笔。
Since the Potter movies ended, Radcliffe has thrown himself into a frenzy of projects, at times working 90-hour weeks and rarely taking vacations. He seems intent on proving that he is, if not worthy of the golden ticket he received at age 10 (because who could be), at least working as hard as anyone could to show he won’t squander his fame. In 2010, while he was finishing the last Potter films, he trained with a choreographer and learned how to dance so he could star in “How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying” on Broadway. In addition to “Kill Your Darlings,” he has finished two other movies: “Horns,” an adaptation of the Joe Hill novel, and “The F Word,” a romantic comedy with Zoe Kazan. This summer, he played the lead role in “The Cripple of Inishmaan” in London’s West End. During the last month of the play’s run, he filmed, during the day, the title role in the second season of a television series called “A Young Doctor’s Notebook,” based on a book by the Russian writer Mikhail Bulgakov; already a success on British television, the first season began airing in the United States this month on Ovation, an arts television network.
自从哈利·波特系列电影拍完后，雷德克里夫就将自己陷入了疯狂的工作中，时常一周工作90个小时，也很少休假。他似乎决心要向世人证明，即使他不配在十岁时即得到金钥匙而一夜成名（不只是他，这样的荣幸谁又当得起呢），但至少他也和任何其他人一样在努力奋斗，并没有图枉虚名。2010年，在他拍摄完成最后一部哈利·波特电影之际，他跟随一名编舞家学习舞蹈，以便可以在百老汇的歌舞剧《平步青云》(How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying)中出演主角。此外，除拍摄了电影《杀死汝爱》，他还完成拍摄了其他两部电影，一部是根据乔·希尔(Joe Hill)的同名小说改编的电影《魔角》(Horns)，另一部是与佐伊·卡赞(Zoe Kazan)合作的浪漫轻喜剧《F打头的那个字》(The F Word)。今年夏天，他还在伦敦西区领衔主演了《伊尼什曼岛上的瘸子》(The Cripple of Inishmaan)。在剧演最后一个月里，他又利用白天时间拍摄了根据俄罗斯作家米哈伊尔·布尔加科夫(Mikhail Bulgakov)作品改编的电视剧《一个年轻医生的笔记》(A Young Doctor’s Notebook)第二季中的年轻医生。此剧已在英国大获成功，本月也将在美国的艺术电视网Ovation上播出第一季。
In the show, Radcliffe plays a young, morphine-addicted doctor who often appears alongside an older version of himself, played by Jon Hamm. The material, set in early-20th-century Russia, is obscure, at times comically obscene and absurdist. When Hamm approached Radcliffe about the project, showing him an outline of the script, he said yes right away. “The Master and Margarita,” Bulgakov’s best-known book, is one of Radcliffe’s favorite novels — on his 21st birthday, he treated himself to a trip to Moscow to visit the author’s onetime home.
在剧中，雷德克里夫饰演了一名年轻的、吗啡上瘾的医生，经常出现在年长的自己（由乔·汉姆[Jon Hamm]扮演）身边。故事发生在20世纪早期的俄国，情节晦涩，时而充满喜剧化的下流和荒诞。当汉姆拿着剧本大纲找到雷德克里夫时，他看后立即答应下来。布尔加科夫最著名的作品《大师和玛格丽特》(The Master and Margarita)是雷德克里夫最喜爱的小说之一。在他21岁生日时，他前往莫斯科作家的故居拜访，作为送给自己的生日礼物。
As the writers started working on the script, they were not sure whether Radcliffe would feel comfortable with physical comedy or humor that played on his height (he’s 5 foot 5). To their relief, he embraced it, banging his head on low-hanging lights, allowing Hamm to pick him up or body-slam him, enduring a steady stream of asides about his size. Three days before leaving for Venice, Radcliffe was finishing the last scenes for the second season, including one in which he was wrestling with a pharmacist over a forged prescription for morphine. The two actors tugged at the piece of paper for a moment, and then Radcliffe, like a small, feral animal, stood on his toes and sank his teeth into the pharmacist’s hand, pulling the paper away in triumph.
在编剧们编写剧本的时候，他们不太确定雷德克里夫是否会介意剧情中针对他身高（5英尺5英寸，约1米65——译注）的幽默片段。让他们宽心的是，他对此欣然配合，无论是头撞在低悬的灯上，还是让汉姆将他抱起或是抱摔在地，抑或是忍耐着剧中人对于他身高没完没了的闲言碎语。赶赴威尼斯之前三天，雷德克里夫才刚刚完成第二季的拍摄，其中包括一场他与药剂师争夺他伪造的吗啡处方的戏。两个演员为着这张纸争抢了一通，然后雷德克里夫就像一只野蛮的小兽一样，踮起脚来，对着药剂师的手一口咬下去，并得意洋洋地抢过处方。
That final touch with the teeth, dark and antic, was Radcliffe’s improvisation. It went over well. “That was like: What if I was in a situation, and I really needed it?” Radcliffe said. “I’d bite the sucker.”
那最后一咬，又阴险又可笑，是雷德克里夫的即兴发挥，效果甚佳。“当时我想，如果是我自己，面临那样的情境，特别需要那个处方，我会怎么办？”雷德克里夫说，“我就会咬那个衰人！”
He had five minutes after the scene to take a break and quickly walked outside to smoke a cigarette; he rolls them, a habit he picked up from the Harry Potter wardrobe dresser, a father of three now in his 40s, whom Radcliffe considers one of his best friends from the days on the set. Among the wealthiest men under 30 in his country, Radcliffe, particularly when he smokes, has the pallid, slightly starved look of an artist who might live in a garret. He has a pointy chin but wide, dramatic cheekbones and those surprisingly blue eyes. If it weren’t for the eyebrows, which are caricatures of eyebrows, exceptionally dark and heavy, Radcliffe might be pretty rather than what he is, which is handsome in a vaguely gothic way. Occasionally, and more so when he is tired, he still shows the same slow, one-eyed blink he did on his screen test. “It’s what Homer Simpson’s eyes do when he’s drunk,” Radcliffe said. “I listen to too many directors’ commentaries from ‘The Simpsons,’ that’s why I know that.”
拍完这场戏有五分钟休息时间，他匆匆走到外头抽一只烟。他自己卷烟，这是他拍《哈利·波特》时和服装造型师学来的习惯，服装造型师40多岁，是三个孩子的父亲，是片场里雷德克里夫最亲近的朋友之一。跻身英国30岁以下最富有的年轻人之列，抽着烟的雷德克里夫神色憔悴，看上去颇像是一位可能住在阁楼上食不果腹的艺术家。他下巴凸出却稍宽，颧骨引人注目，眼睛蔚蓝动人。若不是那漫画般稍嫌夸张的浓密黑眉，雷德克里夫也许会更漂亮一些，而不是现在这样依稀有些哥特气质的英俊感觉。有的时候，尤其是疲倦时，他还是会像当年试镜时那样一只眼比另一只眼慢地眨眼睛。“霍默·辛普森（Homer Simpson，美国卡通片《辛普森一家》中的父亲——译注）喝醉了时就是这样眨眼，”雷德克里夫说，“我听了太多《辛普森一家》导演的点评了，所以知道这个。”
At times in his professional life, Radcliffe said, he has felt self-conscious about other idiosyncrasies of his face, particularly when he was acting in his first post-Potter movie, a horror film called the “The Woman in Black.” During filming, he said, “I was struggling in vain to not come close to making a face that would make people think of Harry.” And how would he characterize a Harry face? “There isn’t,” he said, exhaling smoke and shaking his head. “It’s just my face. I have to accept the fact that my face is going to remind people of Harry because I played that character. If I try to avoid being expressive in that same way, all I’ll do is stop being expressive, and I won’t be any farther away from that character.”
雷德克里夫说，在他的表演生涯中，有时也会因自己面容特征感到不自在，尤其是在拍继《哈利·波特》之后的首部作品、恐怖片《黑衣女人》(The Woman in Black)的时候。他说，拍摄中“我徒劳地努力让自己的表演不让观众想起哈利·波特那张脸。”那他如何来定义什么是“哈利·波特的脸”呢？“没法定义，”他答说，他吐出一口烟，摇摇头，“我的脸就是哈利·波特的脸。我必须接受这个事实，因为我演了这个角色，我的脸就总会让观众想到哈利·波特。如果我为此避免一些类似的神情或举止，唯一的结果就是失去表现力，而不会因此而摆脱哈利·波特的影子。”
Radcliffe has been most successful, outside the Potter franchise, in roles in which the physicality of the character helps him over the hurdle of his past on-camera self. When he was 18, he starred in “Equus” on Broadway, playing a disturbed adolescent, a role that required extensive nudity. He performed with an Irish accent and portrayed a disabled young man in “The Cripple of Inishmaan.” In “Kill Your Darlings,” he plays a gay, sexually active aspiring poet attending Columbia University. A touch of Hogwarts hovers over the film, but the earnest, solemn, blue-eyed schoolboy has been replaced by a hyperverbal, occasionally manic Jewish adolescent from Paterson, N.J.
在哈利·波特系列电影之外，雷德克里夫演得最成功的是那些人物外型特质能帮他摆脱自己旧日屏幕形象的角色。18岁时，他出演了百老汇的舞台剧《恋马狂》(Equus)，饰演了一个问题少年，有大量裸戏篇幅。在《伊尼什曼岛上的瘸子》中，他扮演了一个爱尔兰口音的残疾年轻人。而在《杀死汝爱》中，他的角色是一名放荡不羁、才情满怀，在哥伦比亚大学读书的同性恋诗人。霍格华兹的巫云时而拂过影片，但那个真诚严肃的蓝眼睛男孩儿已俨然被来自新泽西州帕特森，口若悬河、时而癫狂的犹太裔青年取而代之。
The range of roles reflects Radcliffe’s ambition and his desire to prove, as quickly as he can, that he can genuinely act. “I have a massive chip on my shoulder,” he told me. “When you fall into something at age 11 and get paid incredible amounts of money for your entire teenage years for doing a job anyone would want, there is a part of you that thinks everybody is just saying, ‘He got there because he fell into it; he’s not really an actor.’ ” The possibility that those people might be right plagued him as well. “I feel it less nowadays,” he said. “It has taken a long time to feel like I’ve earned the place that I’m at.”
角色涉猎之广，正反映了雷德克里夫急欲证明自己很会演戏的心情。“我肩上有个好大的包袱，”雷德克里夫告诉我。“当你11岁就得到那样千载难逢的良机，以后的十年一直做着任何人都梦想的工作，获得难以置信的丰厚收入，你就会总是怀疑每个人都在说，‘他那是天上掉馅饼的运气，他并不真的会演戏。’”而人们的这种说法也未必子虚乌有，这让他饱受困扰。“我现在这么想的时候已经少得多了，”他说，“能对自己的所获感到心安理得，确实费了很长时间和心血。”
Radcliffe says he grew up on the comedy of embarrassment, a particularly British form of humor with which he identifies closely. The day he learned he got the part of Harry Potter, his parents rewarded him by letting him stay up late and watch an extra episode of “Fawlty Towers,” perhaps the apex of a genre built, as Radcliffe says, “on fear and anxiety and awkwardness.”
雷德克里夫说，他是看着以窘境尴尬为素材的喜剧长大的，那是一种他极为认同的非常英式的幽默。他得知当选哈利·波特一角的那天，他父母就奖励他可以比平时晚些睡觉，多看一集《弗尔蒂旅馆》(Fawlty Towers)，这部喜剧恐怕是建立在（用雷德克里夫的话说）“恐惧、焦虑和尴尬“之上的巅峰之作了。
“A Young Doctor’s Notebook” revels in that queasy-making humor. In one episode, he hacks away at a young girl’s leg with a saw as blood spurts tragicomically, and in the second season he humiliates himself with his sleazy wooing of a beautiful young woman named Natasha.
《一个年轻医生的笔记》(A Young Doctor’s Notebook)中尽显的就是那种令人反胃式的幽默。在一集中，他对着一个小姑娘的腿一通乱锯，血涌飞溅，悲哀中透着一丝喜剧效果；第二季中，他追求一位名叫娜塔莎(Natasha)的年轻美丽的女孩，手段低俗，窘迫尴尬。
On the “Doctor” set that day, Radcliffe changed into a Harlequin-style clown suit for a daydream sequence that called for him to leap, dancerlike, as he exited the scene. He chatted with the sound technician fixing his microphone. “You like Pavement?” he said. “A lot of sound guys like Pavement.”
那天在《医生》的拍摄现场，雷德克里夫换上了一身小丑服，拍一场白日梦的戏，梦中的他在离场时像舞蹈家一样做了个腾空跨步。他和给他调整麦克风的音响师闲聊，“你喜欢人行道乐队(Pavement)吗？”他问，“好多搞音响的人都喜欢人行道。”
“Don’t do that,” the technician deadpanned. “You’ve worked with other sound guys?”
“不搞那个，”音响师面无表情，“你和其他音响师合作过？”
“No, no, none of them even compare to you,” Radcliffe said. He generally seemed to enjoy the small talk and the camaraderie among the crew as much as the acting. He looked down at his costume and laughed. “I love this job,” he said to no one in particular. “It’s so stupid and weird.” He had already asked the young woman in wardrobe to take a photograph of him in the costume, so he could send it to his girlfriend, Erin Darke, an actress he met on the set of “Kill Your Darlings.” “She is going to find me sooo attractive in this,” he said.
“没有，没有，他们不能跟你相比，”雷德克里夫答说。他喜欢和剧组工作人员闲聊，那份亲切友情不比演戏的乐趣逊色。他低头看看自己的服装，笑起来。“我太爱这份工作了，”他顾自说到，“这造型又傻又另类。”他已经叫服装部门的小姑娘帮他拍了照片，好发给他的女友，艾琳·达克(Erin Darke)，这是他在《杀死汝爱》片场上结识的女演员。“她看见我穿成这样肯定迷死我了，”他说。
When rehearsal kicked in, he practiced the leap. “I can do it better than that,” he promised the director. Midair, he pointed his toes into a classic jeté. The director sniggered appreciatively: shame, embarrassment. It was perfect.
彩排开始，他练习那个跨步。“我能比刚才跳得更好，”他向导演保证。腾起半空，他将脚趾伸直成芭蕾舞小跳的姿势。导演充满赞赏的偷笑了一声：羞耻又尴尬。绝了。
In Venice, two days later, Radcliffe and the director of “Kill Your Darlings,” John Krokidas, were doing interviews from a temporary structure on a plaza overlooking the beach on the Lido. Outside, hundreds of girls pressed against the glass doors, screaming the appropriate summoning spell from Harry Potter — ‘'Accio! Accio!” — blowing kisses and pounding so hard on the walls that the building vibrated. When Radcliffe needed to use the bathroom around the corner, an event that required precision planning between Sam and the film festival’s publicists, the quick trip triggered a stampede as the girls followed, racing to take a shortcut through a terrace restaurant, startling the coffee-drinkers and flaneurs in their midst.
在威尼斯，两天后，雷德克里夫和《杀死汝爱》的导演约翰·克洛基达斯(John Krokidas)在一座大厦临时架起的面朝利多岛海滩的场地上接受采访。场外，几百名女孩儿挤在玻璃门外，尖叫着哈利·波特的召唤咒语“飞来！飞来！”(Accio! Accio!)，对着他飞吻，并敲打着墙体，整栋建筑都在振动。当雷德克里夫起身去向转弯处的洗手间（这可是需要萨姆和电影节公关人员精细计划的事宜），女孩儿们突然跟随他的方向涌入，飞奔着从凉台餐厅抄近穿过，惊呆了正在喝咖啡和闲逛的人们。
Over the course of the day, Radcliffe spoke to easily 100 reporters about the film, which is based on the story of Ginsberg’s youthful infatuation with Lucien Carr, a fellow Columbia student who eventually murders another friend in their circle. Radcliffe’s manners were unfailingly polite as he fielded questions; he moves through the world like a royal who not only embraces his responsibility to his public but also obsesses about it. “I meet hundreds of people, and I’m not going to remember them,” he said. “But every single one of them will remember their interaction with me.”
一天下来，雷德克里夫与至少100位记者谈论了影片。这是根据金斯伯格青年时对哥大同学吕西安·卡尔(Lucien Carr)的热恋改编的故事，卡尔后将他们圈中的另一个朋友杀死。雷德克里夫一如既往地彬彬有礼，对问题一一作答，待人接物颇有皇室风范——既对公众尽职尽责，又真心痴迷于其中。“我每天接触那么多人，不可能都记得，”他说，“但是，他们中的每一个都会清楚记得与我的见面。”
Radcliffe told me he tries to dispel the image of a spoiled child star within the first 10 seconds of meeting someone; sometimes he does that by extending his hand and introducing himself — “Hi, I’m Dan” — but as often as not, he finds something, anything, for which he can apologize. At one point, a TV reporter in Venice teared up while telling Radcliffe, whom she interviewed 10 years before, that he made her feel “like an old aunt.” Radcliffe looked stricken. “I’m so sorry, it’s not my intention,” he said, “but I know I have that effect on people, I’m terribly sorry.”
雷德克里夫告诉我，在他见到别人的最初十秒内，他会试图摆脱那个宠坏了的童星的形象。为此他时常会主动先伸出手去介绍自己：“你好，我是丹。”而很多时候他会找个理由向对方道歉。一位威尼斯的记者告诉雷德克里夫，十年前她采访他时，他让她感觉自己简直“像个老大妈”，说起时还一度落泪。雷德克里夫如坐针毡，“真对不起！那并不是我的本意，”他说，“但我知道我好像有时会给别人那样的感觉，实在太对不起了！”
About midway through the morning, a European reporter asked, “Your childhood — was it normal?” For some reason, the question, a familiar one to Radcliffe, seemed to throw him. “I don’t know,” he said. “I don’t know what I’m missing. No, I’ve . . . I can’t sit around thinking of all the things I’ve. . . .” He drifted for a moment, then something seemed to kick into gear. “Because actually, no, it was an amazing childhood! People always ask if I missed out on childhood — actually, kids who are abused, that’s a missed childhood, those kids have stuff taken away.”
上午采访过半，一位欧洲的记者问道：“你的童年，算是正常吗？”这个其实雷德克里夫很熟悉的问题，却不知怎么让他有些不知所措。“不知道，”他回答，“我也说不好我失去了什么。不是，我……我现在也一时想不起我曾经……”这样稍嫌语无伦次了片刻，他好像终于想好了。“其实，我的童年非常美好！人们总是问起我是否错过了一个真正的童年。其实那些受到过虐待的孩子们，才是失去了童年，他们生命中的一些宝贵东西被剥夺了。”
It was a nonanswer — a lot of anguish and ambivalence lies between a normal childhood and an abused one. In the last year of filming Harry Potter, Emma Watson, who played Hermione Granger, told Entertainment Weekly magazine that she was finding the experience “horrible” and complained bitterly about the tightly controlled routine on set: “I get told what time I get picked up, I get told what time I can eat, when I have time to go to the bathroom. Every single second of my day is not in my power.” Rupert Grint, who played Ron Weasley, Harry Potter’s best friend, recently described the long, drawn-out experience of appearing in the films as “quite suffocating.”
这是个模棱两可的回答：有太多苦楚和纠结是介于正常的童年和受虐的童年之间的。拍摄哈利·波特系列的最后一年，饰演赫敏·格兰杰(Hermione Granger)的艾玛·沃特森(Emma Watson)，告诉《娱乐周刊》拍摄的体验十分“可怕”，并因片场上严苛的时间管理而大吐苦水：“别人会给我安排几点有人来接我走，几点可以吃饭，几点可以去厕所。一天中的每一秒都不在我自己的控制之下。”饰演哈利·波特挚友罗恩·韦斯莱(Ron Weasley)的演员鲁伯特·格林特(Rupert Grint)，最近在描述漫长的拍摄过程时，说其中体验“甚是令人窒息”。
Radcliffe, however, rarely betrayed any strain. “If he was feeling good, bad, indifferent or terrible,” says David Yates, who directed the last four Potter films over six and a half years, “he carried the perception that everything was lovely and great, even though the pressures were really intense.”
雷德克里夫却极少背叛这个剧组。用六年半的时间导演了《哈利·波特》后四部的大卫·叶茨(David Yates)回忆说，“无论他开心、郁闷、无所谓或者难过至极，他都怀着积极的心态，认为所有事情都是美好的，尽管当时的压力实际上非常之大。”
As Radcliffe explained it: “The second you seem down, everyone’s very concerned. It affects the set.” Temporarily suppressing a mood was easier than bringing a crew of hundreds of people to a halt — it was just another skill he learned on the job, part of keeping the vast machinery around him moving smoothly. “If I ever was feeling ill,” he said, “it was: ‘Get a doctor on set!’ ‘No, I’m fine.’ . . . That feeling makes me not want to worry people.”
雷德克里夫解释说：“你一旦看起来情绪低落，所有人都开始担心，会影响整个片场。”暂时控制一下自己的情绪，总比让上百人的剧组跟着你一起停工要容易一些，这也是他在演戏过程中学到的技能，是让他身边这个庞大的体系正常运转的必备素质。他说，“如果我感觉身体不舒服，就会是‘去请个医生来！’‘哦不用，我没事’这样的来回对话……我不想让别人担心。”
Radcliffe still doesn’t complain about his experience on Potter, at least not publicly; to do so would be to appear ungrateful and to risk being mocked by the tabloid press: Poor Dan, with his $80 million fortune! (That’s one common estimate; Radcliffe says that he doesn’t actually know how much money he has and leaves financial matters to his mother, who is a casting agent, and his accountant.) Watson has called the set a “bubble” from which she eventually wanted out; Radcliffe, though, describes it as his comfort zone, a place where he evolved into who he is, where he learned to love working in film, for better or for worse. Cuba Gooding Jr., on a British talk show, once teased Radcliffe about being so rich he never had to work again. “I’ve worked every day since I was 10,” Radcliffe protested. “I don’t know how to do anything else.” He added, a moment, later, “There is nothing else I’d rather be doing.”
至今为止，雷德克里夫仍然从不对拍摄《哈利·波特》的经历抱怨，至少不在公众面前。如果抱怨，就会显得忘恩负义，还有可能被小报媒体嘲弄：“可怜的丹啊，还有他那8000万的财产！”（这只是个普遍的估计，雷德克里夫说他自己也不知道拥有多少财产，财务的事都交给他的母亲打理，他的母亲做演员挑选的工作，也是他的财务会计）。沃特森曾将剧组比作一个她最终想要逃脱的“大泡泡”，而雷德克里夫却将剧组描述成令他感到“舒心安逸的地方”，那里将他蜕变为今日的他，使他义无反顾地爱上了电影。有一次小库珀·古丁(Cuba Gooding Jr.)在一档英国脱口秀节目中开雷德克里夫的玩笑，说他那么有钱，可以永远不用找工作。对此雷德克里夫反驳说：“从10岁开始我每天都在工作。我除了演戏别的什么都不会。”随后他补充说：“也没有比演戏更让我热衷去做的事情。”
Radcliffe’s father, Alan Radcliffe, a former literary agent who left his job to chaperon his son on the set, had a phrase he used if Radcliffe ever did appear put upon: “You’re not down in the mines.” It was shorthand for: You are incredibly lucky, and you are being well compensated, and your worst day, in many ways, is better than most people’s best. After Potter was over and Radcliffe, then 21, went to shoot “The Woman in Black,” the first time he wouldn’t be accompanied by a parent, his father wrote him a letter. “On a film set there’s always going to be somebody who’s going to be causing a delay,” Radcliffe recalls the letter saying. “Try and make sure it’s never you.” For 11 years, Radcliffe had done just that, every day, by all accounts; why spell it out? “Constant vigilance,” Radcliffe said, “is kind of our motto.”
雷德克里夫的父亲，艾伦·雷德克里夫(Alan Radcliffe)，从前是一位出版经纪人，后辞职跟随儿子出入片场，在雷德克里夫觉得心里委屈的时候，他总是说一句俗语：“你又没有陷在雷区里。”这话展开说就是：“你实在太幸运了，又拿着天价片酬，从很多角度说，你最失意的时刻，都比大多数人最得意的时刻要好。”《哈利·波特》拍完后，21岁的雷德克里夫去拍摄《黑衣女人》，这是他第一次在没有家长陪同的情况下拍片，他的父亲给他写了一封信。雷德克里夫回忆信的内容：“在片场里，总会有人造成拍摄进程的拖延，要争取做到让这个人永远不是你。”11年来，雷德克里夫每天都是这么做的，众口皆碑。有什么必要再三令五申呢？雷德克里夫说：“不懈警醒，算是我们的座右铭。”
Radcliffe’s upbringing during the Potter years was at once cloistered and uncensored. His father was on the set every day, providing an unusual amount of oversight in the strange, charmed halls of the drafty, converted aircraft hangar where the movies were shot. But all around him, especially as he became a teenager, the crew and cast were swearing, changing in front of him and regaling him with tales of boozy revels. Although he and Watson and Grint shared an intense experience and are friendly enough, they have barely seen one another since the last film. Radcliffe’s closest friends were always among the crew, people who “were either much older than me and had kids or lived outside of London,” he said. “I didn’t have that normal teenage period when you build up your friends in your area and you have a social circle.” After what was usually a long day on set (which included three to five hours of tutoring), Radcliffe went home and found anarchy where he could: he played the Sex Pistols and the New York Dolls, his childhood bedroom a refuge of rebellion. The weekends were for homework; he almost never went out with peers, self-conscious about having to reassure his parents about his safety or worried about imposing the hassles of celebrity on his friends.
在拍摄《哈利·波特》的岁月里，雷德克里夫的成长经历曾一度是与世隔绝而又毫无戒律的。他的父亲每天陪伴左右，在那个由宽敞通风的飞机机库改造的奇幻的片场里，对他关爱有加，教导谆谆。但是在他周围，尤其是他十几岁之后，剧组人员、演员们都是粗口不断，连更衣也不避讳他，还讲些纸醉金迷的故事逗他。尽管他与沃特森和格林特朝夕相处，友情不浅，但是在最后一部拍完后也似乎很少相见。雷德克里夫最亲密的朋友往往都是剧组工作人员，那些“要么比我大很多、已经都有了孩子的，要么就是伦敦以外的外乡人，”他说，“我没有经历过普通孩子到了十几岁开始结交自己的朋友、拥有自己的社交圈的生活。”在片场一整天下来（包括三至五小时的教学辅导），雷德克里夫就会回到家，在他的卧室里大放“性手枪”和“纽约娃娃”乐队的音乐，那间童年的卧室是他青春反叛的最后根据地。周末的时间全部用来做作业；他几乎从来没有和同龄人出去玩儿过，怕让父母担心他的安全，也怕因为自己的明星身份给朋友招来不必要的麻烦。
At 17, Radcliffe moved out on his own, something he had been wanting to do for a long time. “Because of the life I’ve had, I’d grown up quicker than most people,” he said. “I felt like I was entitled.” He was also tired of being watched. “I can be honest about this now, because I know my parents know — but I wanted to smoke,” he said. “I was hiding it like a fiend.”
17岁时，雷德克里夫开始搬出来自己住，这是他很久以来一直盼望的事。“因为我的生活经历，我比大多数孩子成长得更快一些，”他说，“我觉得那时搬出来是理所当然的事。”而且他厌倦了总被人盯着的感觉。“我现在可以实话实说了，因为我知道我父母已经知道了这个：我一直想抽烟。”他说，“我那时东躲西藏的简直快成魔了。”
Looking back, he thinks he was too young to have been on his own. “Because when I was unhappy in any way, it made it too easy for me to hide it,” he told me one afternoon over lunch in the New York’s West Village. “I’d done ‘Equus,’ which had gone so well,” he said, “but I still couldn’t get rid of that committee of voices in my head saying that you’re going to fail.” He continued: “I think there was a part in the back of my head that was going: This is all going to end. And you’re going to be left in this nice apartment. Just living here. And being reminded of what you did in your teenage years for the rest of your life.” David Thewlis, who played Professor Lupin in the Potter films, once said that even when Radcliffe was young he would “joke that he’d be in rehab by the time he was 18, and by 27 he’d be hosting a game show called ‘It’s Wizards!’ ”
现在回想，他觉得自己独立得有点早了。“因为当我有任何的不开心、不如意时，都太容易隐瞒起来了。”在一个下午我与他在纽约西村吃午饭时，他这样告诉我。“我那时已经演了《恋马狂》，大获成功，”他说，“但我还是无法摆脱我脑子里有七嘴八舌的声音跟我说我会失败。”他接着说：“我觉得好像是我脑子里有个念头，认为这一切都会结束，你就会被遗忘在这个漂亮的公寓里，一直住在这儿，以后的一生都在回忆你十几岁时的辉煌中度过。”在《哈利·波特》中饰演卢平教授(Professor Lupin)的演员大卫·休里斯(David Thewlis)曾说，即便是雷德克里夫小的时候，他也会“开玩笑说，他18岁将会进戒瘾康复中心，27岁就会沦落去主持游戏节目《魔法师！》。”
Not long after Radcliffe moved out on his own, he started drinking. By his own description, this was not casual drinking at parties, but every-night drinking, heavy drinking, drinking to the point of making a scene and then blacking out. “I became a nuisance,” he has said. “I became the person in the group who has to be looked after.” He drank in local bars and eventually alone, because he was too embarrassed to go back to the bars where he had been so drunk on nights past. In August 2010, when he was 21, after awakening from a blackout, bruised and unable to account for the previous eight hours, he decided to stop drinking. He hadn’t talked publicly about the extent of his problem and was worried that he would rise one morning to find photos of his past exploits plastered on the front page of a tabloid. So in 2011, he decided to speak openly about his drinking. Having spent so many years protecting the image of Harry Potter, he felt unknown by the same public that considered him an intimate part of their childhoods.
雷德克里夫自己搬出去不久，就开始喝酒。用他自己的话说，那可不是聚会上应景地小饮几杯，而是每天晚上都狂饮，喝到酒后出丑然后忘记一切。“我成了个祸害，”他说，“我成了朋友圈里那个需要大家格外小心看着的人。”他在附近的一些酒吧喝酒，后来开始一个人喝，因为不好意思回到之前喝得酩酊大醉的那些酒吧。2010年8月的一天，那时他21岁，从喝断片儿的大醉中醒来，发现自己身上有淤伤，却想不起来过去八小时内发生的事情，他决定戒酒。那时他尚未公开谈过他嗜酒程度的严重，担心哪天醒来发现自己旧日辉煌的相片上了小报的头版。所以，2011年，他首度公开了自己的酒瘾问题。多年来精心维护着哈利·波特形象的他，此刻让那些将其视为自己童年成长的一部分的粉丝们感到陌生。
“I wanted to close the gap between the real me, what was going on in me, and the person that people perceived,” he told me. He talked to reporters about drunk-dialing old girlfriends, the strain drinking put on his relationship with his parents and even, most sensationally, the times he showed up, still drunk, on the set of “Harry Potter.” David Yates said he was not aware of Radcliffe’s drinking, which Radcliffe believes is true; he had carefully hidden his problem from colleagues and many close friends. “I’m not somebody who likes worrying people,” he told me. “So if I know I’m a worrying drinker, would I ever drink in front of people that I would worry?”
“那时，我很想让真实内在的我和大家认识的那个我之间的距离缩小、消失。”他告诉我。他和记者们说起过自己喝醉酒打电话给昔日女友，和嗜酒带给他和父母关系的压力，甚至最骇人听闻的——他醉着酒出现在《哈利·波特》片场的事。大卫·叶茨表示当时并不知道他的酒瘾，对此雷德克里夫是相信的。在同事和许多亲密的朋友面前，他小心翼翼地掩饰着自己的问题。“我这个人不喜欢让别人担心，”他告诉我，“所以如果我知道自己有酒瘾的问题，我怎么会在为我担心的人面前喝呢？”
The tension between a protected and overexposed life still exists for Radcliffe. When he’s working in New York, he shares his apartment downtown with his personal assistant, Spencer Soloman, a 38-year-old former dancer and camera man, who became close with Radcliffe’s family when he was teaching the actor to dance for “How to Succeed.” Soloman and Sam function, in some ways, like older brothers: fun, but responsible and organized. Soloman plans Radcliffe’s schedule and talks to his father, agents and publicists two or three times a day; he might tell Radcliffe when he needs to shave for a photo shoot or search their apartment for a garment that his stylist wants him to wear for some occasion.
在处处警卫和过度曝光之间的生活还是令雷德克里夫紧张。在纽约工作期间，他与私人助理斯宾塞·索罗曼恩(Spencer Soloman)同住在下城区的公寓里。38岁的索罗曼恩原是舞蹈演员和摄像师，在为《平步青云》一剧辅导雷德克里夫舞蹈期间，与雷德克里夫家交往很近。索罗曼恩和萨姆，在某些程度上像是雷德克里夫的哥哥：好玩儿，但也有责任感、办事有条理。索罗曼恩为雷德克里夫制定日程计划，与他父亲、经纪人、公关人员每天沟通不下两三次。他会提醒雷德克里夫什么时候需要为拍一组照片刮胡子，或者在家里翻找造型师需要雷德克里夫在某个场合穿的某件衣服。
In London, Radcliffe almost never leaves his apartment without a bodyguard, and when he does, he keeps his head down. In New York, which he calls his one “head-up city,” he occasionally goes out solo, in a hoodie and sunglasses. (“New York is the only place in the world where people might say they like your work but they don’t ask you for anything,” he says.)
在伦敦，雷德克里夫几乎从不在没有保镖陪同的情况下出门，偶尔为之，也会低着头顾自走路。在纽约——这个被他称作“抬头城市”的地方，他有时会单独出行，穿上帽衫，戴上墨镜（“纽约是全世界唯一一个地方，人们会跟你说他很喜欢你的戏，但并不找你要什么，”他说道）。
Radcliffe’s pleasures can veer into compulsions: he often chain-smokes cigarettes, pounds Diet Coke, recently kicked a Red Bull addiction and spends hours, into the early morning, on NFL.com, pursuing an obsession with American football he cultivated during “How to Succeed.” “I probably know every starting player’s name in the league,” he told me. “Actually, I don’t know why I’m being modest, I definitely know every starting player.” He records episodes of “Jeopardy!” when he’s in New York and watches them before he goes to sleep. A former guest on a brainy British quiz show called “QI,” he has an encyclopedic knowledge of music and trivia and a seemingly inexhaustible catalog of jokes.
雷德克里夫喜好的东西往往能发展为狂热的嗜好：他经常一根接一根地抽烟，猛喝健怡可乐，最近又爱上了红牛，常常通宵达旦地看NFL.com（美国国家橄榄球联盟——译注），这是在演《平步青云》时开发的对美式橄榄球的兴趣。“我差不多知道联盟里所有开球手的名字，”他告诉我，“其实我干吗这么谦虚呢，我确实熟识每个开球手的名字。”在纽约时他会录下每一集的《危险边缘》（美国老牌智力竞赛节目——译注），每天睡前看。之前做过英国益智节目“QI”的嘉宾，他有着堪比百科辞典的音乐知识和百科常识，也似乎有着抖不完的笑话包袱。
Thrown into an adult world early on, Radcliffe nonetheless still clings to some adolescent habits. He subsists on a diet based largely on cheeseburgers and pizza, is the same poor sleeper he was as a child and is an inveterate slob. One friend still teases him about the time he took off a sock to mop up some soda, then put the sock back on.
尽管很早就被卷进了成人的世界，雷德克里夫还是保留着一些青春期少年的习性。他的饮食结构很大程度上以奶酪汉堡和披萨为主，他还是像小时候那样不好好睡觉，并且十足邋遢。一个朋友至今还为了他曾经脱下一只袜子去擦洒了的汽水，然后又把袜子穿回去的事取笑他。
Mostly his life revolves around work. Radcliffe says he confers with his parents about his career options, but he ultimately makes his own decisions and sets the pace. “He’s addicted to the whole work thing, and he does it brilliantly,” Yates says. “But he does hide things. He can also be very clear about what he likes and doesn’t like, but there is a danger. My fear is that at some point he’s got to stop and reflect and take a breath, and the fact that he hasn’t stopped in all the time since and during Potter — I think it’s important that he does that at some point.”
大部分时间，他的生活是围着工作转的。雷德克里夫说，他会和父母商议一些事业上的选择，但是最终由自己来拿主意，自己来定进程。“他痴迷于工作，并且做得很出色，”叶茨说，“但他也会隐瞒一些状况。他可以做到爱恶分明，这有时是危险的。我的担心是，我觉得他应该停下来喘口气，回想总结一下前路，但是在拍摄《哈利·波特》过程中乃至之后至今，他还没有这样做。我觉得在适当的时候他应该停下来总结一下，这很重要。”
Inside the dark auditorium in Venice, moments before the screening of “Kill Your Darlings,” Radcliffe sat beside John Krokidas, the film’s director, and waited. “I can’t believe we’re at the Venice Film Festival,” Krokidas whispered to Radcliffe. “I know, me, too,” Radcliffe whispered back. As the film ran, the two bent their heads together, laughing at inside jokes, complimenting each other on their work.
在威尼斯的漆黑的礼堂里，《杀死汝爱》即将放映。雷德克里夫坐在导演约翰·克洛基达斯(John Krokidas)身旁，等待着影片开映。“我真是不敢相信我们在威尼斯电影节，”克洛基达斯对雷德克里夫耳语道。“我知道。我也不敢相信。”雷德克里夫悄声回答。电影放映中，二人交头接耳地笑着一些拍摄幕后的段子，互相赞许着对方的出色表现。
Krokidas, 40, who made only two short films before this one, first approached Radcliffe to do the movie five years ago. “A thought came to me,” he said. “This was a movie about a dutiful son who has only shown the world one side and by the end is an artist and a poet and a rebel.” Radcliffe, his agent and his parents were all immediately taken by the project: “First of all, it’s hard to overstate how much better the script was than everything else we were reading,” Radcliffe said. It was not lost on him, however, that in both “A Young Doctor’s Notebook” and “Kill Your Darlings,” he plays a young person experimenting with mind-altering substances: “When you play characters in whom you recognize parts of yourself, it makes it easier, and it’s kind of cathartic.”
克洛基达斯40岁，在此之前只拍过两个短片，他在五年前初次向雷德克里夫提出了请他出演这部电影的事。他说：“我就忽然想到：这个电影讲的是一个规矩恭敬、并一直以这一面示人的儿子，最终摇身一变成了艺术家、诗人和离经叛道的豪杰。”雷德克里夫本人，他的经纪人和父母都立即被这部片子打动，“首先，这个剧本本身写的比我们当时读的其他本子都好太多了。”雷德克里夫说。但他也很明白，尽管在《一个年轻医生的笔记》和《杀死汝爱》这两部作品中，他都饰演了对迷幻药物有所涉足的年轻人，“当你能在你演的角色中要找自己的影子，你演起来就容易些，可以说畅快淋漓。”
At first, Radcliffe had to let the part go, because he still had two more Harry Potter films to finish. By the time Krokidas cast the movie, lost financing and was putting financing back together again, Radcliffe was finally available. A foreign sales agent told Krokidas it was a bad move, that “Radcliffe couldn’t open a movie without a wand in his hand.” But once Radcliffe signed on, he worked as hard as Krokidas to sell the movie: he personally closed the deal for foreign sales in Germany while he was there promoting “The Woman in Black.”
起初，雷德克里夫不得不放弃这个角色，因为当时他还有两部《哈利·波特》要完成。但是当克洛基达斯选好了电影的演员，将失去的影片经费重新筹齐时，雷德克里夫终于有了档期。一位外国的电影销售代理和克洛基达斯说，这是一步错棋，说“雷德克里夫手里不拿着魔杖就根本不会演戏”。但是，雷德克里夫签约之后，便亲力亲为，和克洛基达斯一样卖力地联系这部电影的销路：他在德国宣传《黑衣女人》期间，便亲自完成了德国这一站的境外销售。
When filming started, Radcliffe sometimes functioned like a seasoned mentor to Krokidas, counseling him on how to handle the press, establish the tone on the set or think about his next career move. The two have become close friends, the kind who feel comfortable keeping each other in line. After a screening at the Toronto Film Festival last month, when Krokidas decided to celebrate with a dip in a shallow decorative pool at a high-end lounge, it was Radcliffe who let him know that the amusing stunt could end up on the Internet. “John,” he told him, “there’s a fine line between funny and weird, and you are right on that line.” Krokidas got out.
电影开拍之后，雷德克里夫有时充当着克洛基达斯经验丰富的导师，指导他如何面对媒体，如何在片场建立好的风气，如何走好事业的下一步棋。两人成为亲密的朋友，那种可以相互扶持关照的挚友。在上月多伦多电影节的首映仪式后，克洛基达斯想要在奢华的休息区中作装饰用的水池中游泳，以庆祝影片成功之喜。还是雷德克里夫把他叫住，提醒他这么具有娱乐精神的表演搞不好会被人传到网上。“约翰，”他告诉他，“搞笑和雷人之间只有一线之隔，你现在就正好在这条线上。”克洛基达斯放弃了。
In turn, Krokidas, whom Radcliffe has called “the best director of actors I have ever worked with,” spent many hours with Radcliffe off the set, helping him find an acting method that felt right, an experience, in retrospect, he wishes he had during the Potter movies. “There are simple things that no one sat me down and talked to me about,” Radcliffe told me. “No one had ever explained to me: What do you want out of the scene? It was very much left to our instincts.” Radcliffe, naturally verbal and kinetic, wishes he had not tried so hard in the Potter films to suppress his own “natural weirdness.” He singled out his performance in the sixth film, “Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince,” as “a little one-note the whole way through.” He has always felt uncomfortable seeing himself on film. When he appeared on “Inside the Actors Studio,” he told James Lipton that he recalls watching the first film, as a child, with “loathing.”
换过来说，克洛基达斯被雷德克里夫称作“我合作过的最会调动演员的导演”，他曾利用拍片之余的大量时间帮助雷德克里夫寻找拿捏合适的表演方式，这是雷德克里夫现在回想，觉得他在拍《哈利·波特》时如果也能得到这样的经历就好了。“有些很简单的事情，以前从来没有人和我坐下来交待过，”雷德克里夫和我说，“没有人和我解释过：你希望这场戏下来的效果是什么？很多都是凭我们的直觉去演的。”生性好动健谈的雷德克里夫，希望他在当初演《哈利·波特》时没有那么刻意地压制自己骨子里的那种“天然的古怪气质”。他把第六部《哈利·波特与混血王子》(Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince)单挑出来，说自己的表演“有点从头到尾一成不变一个腔调”。他一贯在看自己的电影时不自在。当他作客《在演员工作室里》(Inside the Actors Studio)节目时，他曾告诉主持人詹姆斯·里普顿(James Lipton)，他记得看自己的第一部《哈利·波特》时，还是孩子的他对此厌恶至极。
In “Kill Your Darlings,” Radcliffe displays more range than he did in the Potter films, with a role that defies easy characterization. Radcliffe’s Ginsberg is both socially insecure and sure of his genius; he is, by turns, deeply romantic and sullen and sexual. In Venice, several interviewers asked Radcliffe if he was trying to “put a knife in the back” of Harry Potter by doing an explicit gay sex scene. But Radcliffe simply said it was a part of the story, just as being nude in “Equus” was essential. “I honestly don’t know what the big deal is,” Radcliffe, whose parents had many close gay friends when he was growing up, said in a news conference. “People have been having gay sex for as long as they’ve been having straight sex, period.”
在《杀死汝爱》一片中，雷德克里夫的表演空间就比他在所有《哈利·波特》电影中更大。这是一个不能简单揣摩塑造的角色。雷德克里夫饰演的金斯堡既在社交中紧张不安，同时又恃才自诩，他时而浪漫至极，时而郁郁寡欢，时而纵欲放荡。在威尼斯，几个采访中雷德克里夫都被问及，在影片中他那场直白无讳的同性恋床戏，是否算是他试图“在背后捅了哈利·波特一刀”。雷德克里夫很简洁地回答说，这只是剧情的一部分，就像是在《恋马狂》中的裸戏对剧情至关重要一个道理。“实话说我不明白这有什么大不了的，”雷德克里夫在一次新闻发布会上说，从小到大，他父母身边一直有很多同性恋的好朋友。“人类异性恋的情爱史有多长，同性恋的情爱史就有多长，就这么简单。”
After two grueling days in Venice, Notorious Pictures, the Italian film distributor, hosted a dinner for the film at the Centurion Palace, a lavish hotel on the Grand Canal. Arriving in the lobby, Radcliffe and Sam pushed their way through a hot, close crowd so he could do yet another interview, as a bright light shone in his eyes.
在威尼斯度过了马不停蹄的两天后，意大利方发行商“恶名影像”(Notorious Pictures)在大运河畔奢华的百夫长皇宫酒店(Centurion Palace)为电影举办了晚宴。到达大堂后，雷德克里夫和萨姆又从拥挤狂热的观众群中挤过，去做另一场采访，明晃晃的灯已经打到他的眼睛里。
The hosts had invited a mixed crowd to the dinner that followed: there was a Venetian prince wandering around and some aspiring filmmakers and a woman known for being an Italian showgirl, hugely tall and pneumatic. A young Italian woman, who had sprinkled some of the glitter from a centerpiece onto her face, asked what the English word for “mago” was, and someone answered, “Wizard.” “Hello, wizard,” she said to Radcliffe when she got close enough. Radcliffe posed for photos, again and again.
主办方邀请了各色嘉宾赴随后的晚宴：有位威尼斯王子游走席间，还有一些心存抱负的电影人、一位意大利有名的娱乐女郎，身型奇高。一位年轻的意大利女孩儿，将餐桌花饰上的亮粉洒在自己脸上，然后问“mago”的英文是什么，有人告诉她是“Wizard”。“你好，Wizard（巫师）！”她在离雷德克里夫足够近的时候向他说。雷德克里夫一个接一个地摆姿势拍照。
During the buffet dinner, a very tall, blond young woman in a white evening gown and heels materialized on the hotel terrace, where Radcliffe was talking fantasy football with Sam and Dan, his hairstylist. The woman, an aspiring actress, started engaging in conversation with Radcliffe, smoking a cigarette beautifully and hanging on his every word. She was the first person his age he had spoken to in days, and it seemed possible that she had been brought there expressly for his enjoyment.
自助餐席间，一位年轻高挑、身着白色晚装和高跟鞋的金发女郎出现在酒店凉台上，这里，雷德克里夫正和萨姆、丹（他的发型师）聊着虚拟橄榄球游戏。这位前途喜人的女演员，开始加入了雷德克里夫的聊天中，优美地抽着香烟，关注着他说的字字句句。这是数天来头一个和他年龄相仿的人与他交谈，看似可能是特意安排来逗雷德克里夫开心的。
Radcliffe was growing more and more animated as they talked. The conversation turned to his stint doing musical theater on Broadway. “Sometimes you’re chasing a laugh, and you’re forgetting to act,” he told her, “and then you strain to get the laugh, and you look like a fool. But you need to never lose faith in what you care about — if you ever get the chance to do live theater, you should.” The young woman said, with a smile, “You’re inspiring me now.” Then she left to get a drink.
随着聊天展开，雷德克里夫越说越起劲儿。话题转到了他在百老汇演歌舞剧的那段时间。“有时候你刻意逗观众笑，就忘了接着演，”他跟她说，“然后你更想着一定将他们逗笑，你就看起来特别傻。但是你永远不要对在乎的事失去信心。如果你有机会演舞台剧，你应该去演。”女郎微笑着说：“你给了我灵感。”然后她离开去拿喝的东西了。
As she exited, Radcliffe’s face seemed to lose color, as it sometimes does, like a light that dims without the current of conversation. Maybe she had started to worry about paparazzi or had a boyfriend. But Radcliffe looked crestfallen. It was not that he was trying to score but that this kind of moment played into his worst fears.
她一走开，雷德克里夫的脸顿时没了光泽，有时他会这样，就好像在没了谈话的电流之后，灯就变暗了。也许她是开始担心狗仔队偷拍，或者是自己有男朋友。而雷德克里夫看起来沮丧极了。倒不是他想要什么艳遇，只是这样的时刻会让他联想到自己最焦虑的事。
“You do sometimes think. . . .” He paused. “Maybe everyone’s just . . . putting up with you, you know,” he told me later. “I talk a lot, and I talk a lot about weird stuff that interests me, and sometimes I’m like, Maybe if you weren’t an actor and someone with a recognizable face, maybe no one would be listening to you, actually, and nobody would find what you have to say interesting or funny.”
“有时候你真的会想……”他停顿了一下，“也许大家只是……忍让着你罢了，你知道么。”后来他和我说：“我太爱说，还爱说一些我自己感兴趣的奇怪的东西，有时我会想，如果你不是个演员，不是大家都能认出的明星面孔，也许没人愿意听你说话，其实没人会觉得你说的东西有趣好玩儿。”
Austin Bunn, who wrote “Kill Your Darlings” with Krokidas, asked Radcliffe how he was holding up. He hadn’t quite been expecting that crowd in the hotel lobby, Radcliffe admitted, or that incredibly bright, white light in his eyes. The manager from the Italian distributor, overhearing his comment, leapt to his feet and started apologizing profusely — that was something they could have fixed, he said. Radcliffe blanched. He is as alarmed by other people’s distress as they are alarmed by the fear that they have disappointed him. Radcliffe quickly reassured the manager — “No, no, it was totally fine, really, it was fine"— then looked at me pointedly: Do you see what happens?
与克洛基达斯合写了《杀死汝爱》的奥斯汀·邦恩(Austin Bunn)，问雷德克里夫是否还吃得消。雷德克里夫承认他之前没想到酒店大堂里会有那么多人，而且那盏白花花的灯会打得那么亮，直接照着他的眼睛。意方的发行商经理无意中听到了他的话，马上诚惶诚恐地道起歉来：那本来是他们可以避免的事情，他抱歉地说。雷德克里夫脸变得煞白。他对怕给别人造成不安的恐惧，就像别人对怕让他失望的恐惧一样强烈。雷德克里夫马上安慰经理：“没事儿，没事儿，真的，都挺好的。”然后看着我，那眼神在说：“这下你都看到了吧？”
Radcliffe left the terrace and found his parents, who were sitting in a corner of an exterior room. (His parents have always made themselves off-limits to the media, which is one reason they continue to be a refuge for Radcliffe.) Around 11:30, everyone lined up and gazed at the sea, waiting for the water taxi to take them to the next event. “In case you were wondering what that convocation in the corner was about,” Radcliffe said, referring to his time with his parents, “I did finally hit a point at which I needed to be somewhere where no one was asking me for anything.”
雷德克里夫离开阳台去找他的父母，他们坐在外面一个房间的角上（他的父母一直以来是不接受媒体采访曝光的，这也是为什么他们可以一直是雷德克里夫的避风港湾的原因之一）。11点半左右，大家都排起队来，眺望着大海，等着水上出租车载他们到下一个聚会。“如果你好奇我刚才躲在角落是干什么，”雷德克里夫指的是他刚才走去他父母那边躲了一会儿的事，“我终于感到有点受不了了，需要在一个没人会找我做这做那的地方休息一下。”
Everyone on the boat thought they were headed to a small party for people connected to the film: there would be relaxing, there would be laughing, there would be karaoke. But Radcliffe and his group arrived to find that the Italian distributor had opened the party to hundreds of people, none of them familiar, all packed into the space, which was loud with music. Sam led Radcliffe and his entourage, at high speed as usual, to a kind of greenroom in the very back, a corner that at least was on the sea and where two charming bartenders, winners of an international competition to make the best drink, worked an intimate bar.
船上的人都以为他们是前往一个只有与影片相关的人参加的小型聚会，轻轻松松、说说笑笑，还有卡拉OK。但是雷德克里夫和他的团队到了地方才发现，意方发行商已将聚会向几百人开放，全都是陌生人，熙熙攘攘挤在音乐震耳欲聋的场地里。萨姆引着雷德克里夫一行人等，快步来到场地后方的演员休息室，那个角落朝向海景，有两位迷人的曾获国际大奖的调酒师，在这个私密的小吧台为他们调着极佳的鸡尾酒。
Radcliffe sat with his back to the water. He would not avail himself of their services, at least not for anything alcoholic, because he’s not drinking these days. His face, worn out and wan by the end of the day, was so pale it looked almost translucent against the darkness, but his blue jacket was merging with the color of the sea behind him, and he seemed to fade into the evening as if, on command, he could make himself magically disappear.
雷德克里夫背向大海坐了下来。他是不会请他们为他调酒的，至少不是调带酒精的饮料，因为近来他戒了酒。一天下来，他的脸疲惫苍白，白到在黑夜的映衬中似乎都变得透明了，但他的蓝色夹克衫和他身后的海浑然一色，他看起来就要在这深夜褪去，好像他能一声咒语，让自己魔法般地消失似的。