Within hours of confirming plans to appear at the inauguration of Donald J. Trump, the Radio City Rockettes were plunged into a maelstrom of social media outrage on Friday amid reports that the performers were contractually obligated to dance at the ceremony or lose their jobs.
上周五，在确认出席唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)就职典礼后没过几个小时，无线电城音乐厅火箭女郎舞蹈团(Radio City Rockettes)便陷入一团社交媒体愤怒情绪的漩涡中。有多篇媒体报道称这些表演者是受合同所限被迫在这个典礼上表演舞蹈，否则就会失去工作。
But as the day wore on, both the Madison Square Garden Company, which manages the Rockettes, and the dancers’ union, the American Guild of Variety Artists, said that any of the dancers could opt out of the Jan. 20 performance in Washington.
但接下来，管理舞蹈团的麦迪逊广场花园公司(Madison Square Garden Company)和这些舞蹈演员所属的工会美国综艺艺术家协会(American Guild of Variety Artists)都表示，其中任何一位舞蹈演员都可以选择退出1月20日在华盛顿的演出。
The day of statements followed reports that a Rockette was “embarrassed and disappointed” that the decision to perform had been made for her. The dancer’s private Instagram post was published by the gossip website Perez Hilton and quoted widely by news outlets. That dancer, Phoebe Pearl, did not respond to multiple requests for comment on Friday, nor did several of her fellow performers.
在这两项声明发布之前，有报道称一名火箭女郎为公司已经决定让她参加这次演出而感到“尴尬和失望”。这名舞蹈演员个人的Instagram帖子被八卦网站Perez Hilton曝光，并被多家新闻机构广泛援引。这位名为菲比·珀尔(Phoebe Pearl)的舞者没有回应时报周五发出的多次置评请求，她的几位舞者同事也是如此。
Not long after those reports, a statement relayed through Mikyl Cordova, a spokeswoman for the Madison Square Garden Company, said that dancers’ appearances are voluntary.
这些报道出现后不久，通过麦迪逊广场花园公司女发言人米凯尔·科尔多瓦(Mikyl Cordova)传达的声明称，这些舞者是自愿参与演出。
“For a Rockette to be considered for an event, they must voluntarily sign up and are never told they have to perform at a particular event, including the inaugural,” the statement read. “It is always their choice.”
“一位被考虑参加一项活动的火箭女郎，必须自愿签署协议，从来不会被告知必须在一场特定的活动上表演，包括那场就职典礼，”这份声明写道。“这一直都是她们的选择。”
The statement also said that, among the dancers, Mr. Trump’s inauguration has been a popular opportunity: “In fact, for the coming inauguration, we had more Rockettes request to participate than we have slots available. We eagerly await the inaugural celebrations.” Nonetheless, the company did not respond to further inquiries or make any dancers available for interviews.
声明还表示，在这些舞者中，在特朗普的就职典礼上表演一直是一个受欢迎的机会：“实际上，要求参与即将到来的就职典礼演出的火箭女郎，要多于我们手上拥有的名额。我们在热切地等待着就职典礼的到来。”然而，这家公司没有回应接受进一步询问的请求，也没有安排任何一位舞者接受采访。
Despite these assurances, many of the women may feel under pressure to perform. Much of the fear and confusion could be traced to an email sent on Thursday night by the union to some of the dancers.
尽管有这些保证，这些女舞者有不少可能会因为感觉有压力而参加表演。这些担忧和惶恐在很大程度上可以归咎于美国综艺艺术家协会周四晚上发给其中一些舞者的邮件。
“If you are full time, you are obligated,” said that message, which was forwarded to The New York Times. “Doing the best performance to reflect an American institution which has been here for over 90 years is your job. I hope this pulls into focus the bottom line on this work.”
“全职演员有参加演出的义务，”这些被转发给《纽约时报》的邮件显示。“拿出最好的表演，反映一家已经在这里存在90多年的美国机构的水平，是你们的工作。我希望提醒大家注意到这份工作的底线。”
Union officials did not return any calls, but on Friday evening, the guild said on Facebook that it had reached an agreement with the company that would allow all employees, even full-time dancers, to opt out of the inauguration. It said the earlier email to its members had simply been an explanation of the existing contract.
协会工作人员没有回应任何电话，但该机构周五夜间在Facebook上表示已于这家公司达成了一项协议，允许所有员工，甚至包括全职舞蹈演员选择退出就职典礼表演。它还表示，早些时候发给一些成员的邮件只是对目前的合同所做的解释。
The pressure to perform at the inauguration ceremony will probably vary based on the circumstances of each Rockette, according to a performer who spent five years with the company.
据一位已经在这家公司待了五年的演员透露，因为每位火箭女郎的情况不同，所以她们在就职典礼上表演的压力可能也有差别。
Heather Lang, a contemporary dancer who left the Rockettes in 2009, said in a phone interview that there are about 12 full-time dancers who perform in both winter and spring shows. They are a minority of the company, which has about 80 Rockettes. All of the dancers were seasonal until about a year ago.
2009年离开火箭女郎舞蹈团的现代舞者希瑟·朗(Heather Lang)在接受电话采访时表示，在冬季和春季秀中都参加表演的全职舞蹈演员有大约12名。在总共有80名火箭女郎的舞团里，她们只是一小部分。原本所有舞者都是季节性的，这一点直到大概一年前才改变。
Ms. Lang, 35, said that for full-time and seasonal dancers, there is a fear of jeopardizing their future employment and of compromising their standing in the eyes of James L. Dolan, the executive chairman of the Madison Square Garden Company, and his executives, if they complain or try to bow out.
35岁的朗表示，全职和季节舞蹈演员有一种担忧，即如果她们抱怨或试图退出，可能会危及自己未来的工作，还会损害她们在麦迪逊广场花园公司主席詹姆士·L·多兰(James L. Dolan)及其高管眼中的形象。
“One of the most annoying situations about that job is it’s corporate,” Ms. Lang said. “It’s not like a Broadway show where you feel like you have an artistic voice. You’re sort of owned by this corporation.”
“这份工作最恼人的地方就是，它是团体表演，”朗说道。“不像一出百老汇(Broadway)的戏，在那里你感觉自己可以有一种艺术表达。在这里，你有点像是属于这个公司的。”
So even if an appearance is considered voluntary, individual Rockettes may feel forced to perform if they are told that executives want them onstage in Washington.
所以如果被告知高管想让她们在华盛顿登台，哪怕演出被认为是自愿的，具体到个别火箭女郎，可能也会感觉自己不得不参加演出。
Ms. Lang said that performers are drawn to the company for the honor of dancing at Radio City Music Hall — as well as for the health benefits.
朗还表示，吸引她们的是在无线电城音乐厅(Radio City Music Hall)表演的荣誉——以及医疗福利。
Many of the women have feared standing up for themselves in the current controversy, she said. “Everybody’s in fear of losing their job.”
这些女演员有不少害怕在当下的争议中站出来维护自己，她说。“大家都担心失去工作。”
The idea that Rockettes could be forced to perform prompted anger on Twitter among actors, performers and other celebrities, who began widely circulating contact information for the company, the Rockettes’s producers and their union.
火箭女郎有可能被迫参加演出的想法，在Twitter上的演员、表演者和其他名人中引发了愤怒情绪，他们开始广泛传播该公司、火箭女郎舞蹈团舞台监督及其工会的联系方式。
Chris Pappas, a tour guide with Radio City Music Hall, said employees there were angry.
无线电城音乐厅的导览员克里斯·帕帕斯(Chris Pappas)表示，那里的员工感到愤怒。
“I can say that as a member of the tour guide staff, we have discussed it, and it has upset us,” Mr. Pappas said in a telephone interview. “It’s not saying the Rockettes are invited to perform. It’s saying that the Rockettes will perform.”
“作为导览员工的一员，我可以说，我们谈论了这件事，它让我们很不快，”帕帕斯在接受电话采访时说。“它不是说火箭女郎舞蹈团被邀请演出，而是说火箭女郎舞蹈团会进行表演。”
In announcing the appearance, Mr. Dolan said in a statement on Thursday that the Rockettes were “treasured American icons,” and noted that they had performed at the inaugurations of George W. Bush in 2001 and 2005.
多兰在周四发声明宣布在就职典礼上演出的计划时表示，火箭女郎舞蹈团是“宝贵的美国象征”，还指出她们曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)2001年和2005年的两次就职典礼上演出。
The dance company, known for pearly smiles and high kicks, is one of the most recognizable holiday institutions of the president-elect’s hometown, and one of the few performers to confirm an appearance so far. The Mormon Tabernacle Choir, which has performed at previous presidential inaugurations, confirmed its appearance on Thursday. On Friday, a petition was circulating among people who were urging the group to reconsider.
这家以露出雪白牙齿的微笑和高踢腿动作出名的舞团是候任总统的家乡最具知名度的欢庆演出机构之一，也是目前为止为数不多的确认在就职典礼上表演的机构之一。曾在往届总统就任典礼上演出的摩门大教堂合唱团(Mormon Tabernacle Choir)上周四确认参演。但周五就开始流传一份请愿书，强烈要求该合唱团重新考虑这一决定。
Last week, Boris Epshteyn, a spokesman for Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee, confirmed in an email that the 16-year-old opera singer Jackie Evancho would be performing the national anthem at the event, calling her a “true role model and inspiration for people young and old in our country and around the globe.”
上周，特朗普就职典礼委员会发言人鲍里斯·爱泼斯坦(Boris Epshteyn)在一封邮件中确认，16岁的歌剧演员贾姬·伊万科(Jackie Evancho)会在典礼上演唱国歌，并称她“在我们国家乃至全世界的男女老少心目中是一个真正的楷模和鼓舞人心的人物”。
Other performers, including the Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli and the singer Elton John, have both said in recent days that, contrary to rumors, they would not be performing.
尽管有相关的传闻，包括意大利男高音歌手安德烈亚·博切利(Andrea Bocelli)和歌手埃尔顿·约翰(Elton John)在内的其他表演者都在最近几天表示不会参加就职典礼演出。
In between commenting on Twitter about the proliferation of nuclear weapons and addressing business conflicts of interest within his family, the president-elect took time on Thursday evening to assure the nation that he did not want A-list celebrities attending his inauguration.
除了在Twitter上就核扩散发表言论，并忙于在自己家庭内部解决商业利益冲突，候任总统还在周四晚上抽时间向这个国家保证，他不想让一线名人参加自己的就职典礼。
“I want the PEOPLE!” Mr. Trump tweeted.
“我要的是人民！”特朗普在Twitter上写道。