NEW DELHI — Is the right to food the same as the right to tasty food? The answer, like the answer to any question that involves human nature, is complicated because it does not involve mere facts.
新德里——“享有食品的权利”是否等同于“享有美食的权利”呢？就像涉及人性的所有问题一样，这个问题的答案也很复杂，因为它不仅仅和事实有关。
Ever since an American electrical engineer invented a food that abolishes the inconveniences of foraging and cooking, and contains all the nutrition a human body is known to require but is devoid of the substances that harm, there has been talk that it can end not only the problems of the overfed but also the underfed. After all, it is in the tradition of Silicon Valley-blessed projects to invent a solution for the rich that eventually “makes the world a better place,” to borrow an expression used by tech billionaires and comedians.
美国一位电气工程师发明了一种食品，它消除了觅食和烹饪的不便，包含了已知的人体所需要的所有营养，而且不含有害物质。自那以后，就有人说它不仅能避免过度饮食，也能解决营养不良的问题。毕竟，这遵循了硅谷项目的传统：为富人创造一个解决方案，最终可以“让世界变得更美好”——借用科技产业的亿万富翁和喜剧演员的话来说就是这样。
What if India procures or makes a food like Soylent and distributes it at a great discount to all its malnourished?
如果印度弄到或者制造出类似Soylent的食品，并以很大的折扣提供给该国所有营养不良的人呢？
The thought has crossed many minds, including an Indian fitness entrepreneur who has created his own version of Soylent, called SupermealX, which he recently began selling online. His first paid customers will receive the food in a few weeks.
这个想法划过了很多人的脑海，包括印度一名从事保健行业的企业家。他研制出了自己的Soylent，名叫SupermealX，最近已经开始在线销售。他的第一批付费顾客将在几周后收到产品。
Harsh Batra, 32, is a lean and fit man who has the habit of testing his own blood. He was an early adopter of Soylent, and as he watched his health improve he grew serious about making his own version.
今年32岁的哈什·巴特拉(Harsh Batra)身形精瘦，有给自己验血的习惯。他很早就开始服用Soylent，看到自己的健康状况改善时，他便开始认真考虑研制自己的代餐饮料。
SupermealX, which has been certified by Indian regulators as fit for human consumption, is yellowish and has a tinge of vanilla flavor. Like Soylent, it derives proteins, sugars, fats, vitamins and minerals from both regular food and synthetic sources, but Mr. Batra has to import most of the ingredients. As a result, SupermealX in India, at 290 rupees a 500-milliliter meal (about $4.60 a pint), is almost as expensive as Soylent is in the United States.
SupermealX呈淡黄色，有微微的香草味道，印度监管机构已经认证该产品适合人体食用。和Soylent一样，它的蛋白质、糖、脂肪、维生素和矿物质是从常规食品和合成物中提取的，但巴特拉不得不进口大部分配料。因此，SupermealX在印度的价格几乎和Soylent在美国一样贵，能代替一顿饭的500毫升饮料售价290卢比（约28元人民币）。
The Indian government spends about 3 to 4.5 rupees per lunch in the midday meal program that it provides to millions of poor schoolchildren. The midday meal, which provides 450 to 700 calories, depending on a child’s age, derives most of its calories from grain-based carbohydrates. Grain, especially rice and wheat, is cheap in India because of government subsidies. Nutritious vegetables are expensive. When the poor eat at all, they usually fill their bellies with starch.
印度政府有一项针对数以百万计的贫困小学生的午餐计划，每顿午饭补助3到4.5卢比。午餐要提供450到700卡路里的热量，具体要视孩子的年龄而定，大部分热量都来自以谷物为基础的碳水化合物。在印度，因为政府补贴，谷物，特别是大米和小麦价格便宜。有营养的蔬菜价格不菲。穷人即使能吃得上东西，通常也是塞一肚子的淀粉类食物。
Angus Deaton, the 2015 Nobel laureate in economic science, and the economist Jean Drèze, observed in 2009 in an influential paper that the “anthropometric indicators of nutrition in India, for both adults and children, are among the worst in the world,” he wrote. “Indeed, according to the National Family Health Survey, the proportion of underweight children remained virtually unchanged between 1998-99 and 2005-06 (from 47 percent to 46 percent for the age group of 0-3 years). Undernutrition levels in India remain higher than for most countries of sub-Saharan Africa.”
今年的诺贝尔经济学奖得主安格斯·迪顿(Angus Deaton)曾在2009年与经济学家让·德雷兹(Jean Drèze)发表了一篇颇有影响力的论文。文中写道，“在印度，成年人和儿童的体质指标几乎是全世界最糟糕的。实际上，从全国家庭健康调查(National Family Health Survey)的数据来看，在1998–99年到2005–06年期间，体重不足的儿童比例几乎没变（在0–3岁儿童中的比例从47%降至46%）。印度的营养不良水平依然高于撒哈拉以南非洲的大部分国家。”
The situation for the poor has not vastly improved in the past decade. It would appear that a drink with all the nutrients a body needs, which can be stored in powder form for several months and has been created for the rich, would be an excellent idea for India’s poor, too. For every meal that a customer purchases, Mr. Batra plans to give one away free to an impoverished child in the care of a chosen organization. But the poor have yet to taste his food. “I have no idea how they are going to react,” he said in an interview. “In a few weeks I will know.”
过去10年，穷人的情况没有很大改善。一种含有人体所需的所有营养、能以粉末的形式储存好几个月，并且已经为富人研制出来了的饮料，对于穷人来说似乎也是一个好主意。巴特拉计划，顾客每出钱购买一份，他就向一个由选定组织照顾的贫困儿童免费赠送一份。但穷人还没尝过他的产品。“我不知道他们会有什么反应，”他在接受采访时说。“几周后就知道了。”
The issue of taste is significant. People, including the poor, eat not only because they have to, but because they enjoy it. Also, society is conditioned to believe there is something objectionable about the poor being made to drink a tasteless subsidized potion because they cannot afford the other kind of good food. There are movies in which people consuming tasteless but utilitarian nutrition is depicted as evidence of dystopia.
口味这个问题很重要。人，包括穷人，吃东西不仅是因为需要吃，还因为他们享受这个过程。社会也习于认为，因为穷人没钱买其他的好食物，就让他们喝一种政府补贴但寡淡无味的代餐，这种做法难以接受。在一些电影里，人们食用寡淡无味却有用处的营养品的情景，便被当成了反乌托邦的迹象。
Images of India’s poor being given a drink that is ideal for feeding the survivors of a calamity could be politically problematic. They would suggest that India is a disaster zone. Some might ruminate, by pure statistics, it is.
这种代餐供应给灾难之后的幸存者是很理想的，但把它拿给印度的穷人喝，在政治上可能有问题。那样做会让人以为印度是灾区。但一些人可能会思忖，单纯从统计数据来看，这个国家的确是灾区。