All these Trumps are getting damned expensive.
花在特朗普一家身上的费用高得惊人。
Last month, taxpayers forked over nearly $100,000 to protect Eric Trump while he was on a business trip to Uruguay. And the Defense Department is looking to rent space in Trump Tower — which goes for as much as $1.5 million a year per floor — so they can bring the nuclear launch codes along when the president comes to visit his wife in New York.
上个月，埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)到乌拉圭进行商务旅行，纳税人为他支付了将近10万美元的安保费用。此外，国防部(Defense Department)正寻求在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)内租赁空间——每层楼每年的租金高达150万美元——如此一来，总统到纽约看望妻子的时候，他们就能把核武密码带到那里。
The mere idea of Donald Trump and the nuclear codes is way more disturbing than the money. But still, critics claim that Melania Trump’s decision not to move into the White House is costing the country more in security than the annual budget for the National Endowment for the Arts.
比起金钱，由唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)掌管核密码这件事本身要让人不安得多。但批评人士仍表示，梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)决定不搬进白宫，正让美国额外支付比国家艺术基金会的年度预算总额还要高的安保费用。
Melania is staying in New York so her son, Barron, can continue at his school. Presumably, the bill will drop somewhat over the summer. Meanwhile, the city police and the Secret Service have wrapped an incredibly expensive security blanket around a chunk of Fifth Avenue.
梅拉尼娅目前住在纽约，以便她的儿子巴伦(Barron)可以继续学业。据推测，相关费用在夏天会有所下降。与此同时，纽约市警方和特勤局(Secret Service)已经在其第五大道上的住所周遭布下所费颇靡的安全屏障。
Of course she’s totally within her rights. One of the rules for criticizing a first family is that you leave the kids alone. (I am not thinking here of Eric.) If Melania decides never to become part of official Washington at all, that’s fine. There’s plenty of precedent. Zachary Taylor’s wife, Margaret, hated the whole idea so much that when Taylor died in office, the engraving of the deathbed scene showed Mrs. Taylor with her hands over her face in grief, because nobody knew what she actually looked like.
当然，她完全有权这样做。批评第一家庭时必须遵守的一条规矩是，不能把孩子牵扯进来。（我在这里说的并不是埃里克。）如果梅拉尼娅决定永远都不要正式成为华盛顿的一分子，也是可以的。此前有过很多先例。扎卡里·泰勒(Zachary Taylor)的妻子玛格丽特(Margaret)对这一切深恶痛绝，以致于泰勒在任内去世时，描绘弥留之际的版画上只有玛格丽特以手遮面的悲伤模样，因为谁也不知道她的真实长相。
On the other hand, she never filed a lawsuit claiming an erroneous news story had hurt her ability to market a “broad-based commercial brand” while she had an unmatchable opportunity to be in the public eye as first lady.
但另一方面，玛格丽特也从未提起诉讼，声称一篇错误的报道损害了她利用无与伦比的机会、以公众心目中第一夫人的身份推出一个“广泛的商业品牌”的能力。
Melania says her legal actions are completely misunderstood.
梅拉尼娅说自己的法律行动被全然误读了。
Conservatives used to have a field day complaining about the high cost of moving the Obamas around. The future President Trump himself once tweeted: “The habitual vacationer, @BarackObama, is now in Hawaii. This vacation is costing taxpayers $4 million +++ while there is 20% unemployment.”
保守派人士以前常常抱怨奥巴马夫妇的出行费用太高。当上总统以前的特朗普发过这样一则推文：“度假成瘾人士@BarackObama（贝拉克·奥巴马）目前在夏威夷。这个假期会花掉纳税人400万美元+++与此同时失业率是20%。”
The unemployment rate was not, at the time, anywhere near 20 percent. And last weekend Trump happily ran up a federal bill of around $3 million for a trip to Mar-a-Lago where he watched the Super Bowl and dropped in on a Red Cross ball, which presumably brought his resort a hefty fee.
当时的失业率远远不到20%。而且在上周末，特朗普乐滋滋地让联邦政府为他的马阿拉歌庄园之行花掉了大约300万美元，他在那里观看了超级碗比赛，并参加了一场红十字舞会，这应该会给他的庄园带来大笔收入。
Yeah, it’s the profit-making end of the story that’s so irritating. When Eric Trump went to Uruguay, his mission was to promote Trump Tower Punta del Este. “We’re going to have an amazing company,” Eric told the local media, adding that his father was going to do “amazing things for the United States.” And that Dad would be “an incredible commander in chief.” The apple doesn’t fall far from the tree, adjective-wise.
没错，让人如此厌恶的正是整件事的盈利目的。埃里克·特朗普前往乌拉圭时，肩负的使命是推销埃斯特角城特朗普大厦(Trump Tower Punta del Este)。“我们将有一个了不起的公司，”埃里克这样告诉当地媒体，还说他父亲将“为美国”做出“了不起的贡献”。此外，他父亲将成为“一位令人惊叹的统帅”。从形容词的使用来看，有其父必有其子。
The president has theoretically separated himself from all his businesses, but they still belong to him. He may not have operational command, but Eric does, and it’s hard for folks in Uruguay not to believe that the president is watching when the son comes to call and mix with his fellow realtors, flanked by a security detail that’s on our dime.
理论上，总统已经和他的所有生意做了切割，但它们仍然属于他。他或许不会下达经营指令，但埃里克会。当埃里克到访乌拉圭、与房地产商同行寒暄时，其身侧安保人员的花费都由我们承担，如此一来，当地民众很难不认为，他父亲正密切关注他的这趟行程。
Those continuing financial interests around the world are a huge problem — you probably noticed that the immigration ban on Muslim-majority countries didn’t include the ones in which the president had hotels or condos or golf courses? And he’s never going to do anything to fix it. When Trump was calling for better ethics in Washington, he only wanted us to drain the other guys’ swamp.
在世界范围内继续存在的这些经济利益构成了严重的问题——你或许注意到了，针对以穆斯林为主的那些国家的移民禁令，并未波及总统所有的酒店、公寓楼或高尔夫球场所在的国家。而他绝不会采取任何行动进行修正。当特朗普呼吁在华盛顿推行更高的道德标准时，他只是想让我们抽干其他人的沼泽。
But don’t you wish he’d try to show he appreciates the security price tag? We don’t want to make little Barron change schools, but Trump could buy Melania a condo in a relatively low-traffic location to save security from having to create a no-go zone in Midtown. It would send up a signal that he realized the problems he was causing. Also it would be cheaper for the Defense Department. And maybe closer to the school. The only thing inconvenienced would be Donald’s bottom line.
但是你难道不希望，他应该表现出对这笔安保开销心存感激？我们并不想让小巴伦转学，但特朗普可以给梅拉尼娅在交通流量相对较低的地方买一所公寓，以免被迫在曼哈顿中城设立禁区，从而节省安保费用。此举会传递出一个信号，即他意识到自己添了麻烦。还可以让国防部少花一点钱。或许还能离学校更近。唯一不便之处是唐纳德的进账会受到影响。
And Eric could have put his security detail up for free. Given that he was traveling on a moneymaking venture and all.
此外，埃里克本可以免费为其安保人员暂时提供住宿。毕竟，他出的那趟差完全是以赚钱为目的。
Trump did announce that when the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, came to visit him in Mar-a-Lago this weekend, he was not going to charge Abe for his room. “That is a gift that the president is extending to the prime minister,” said White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, otherwise known as The Most Miserable Man on Earth.
特朗普的确曾宣布，当日本首相安倍晋三于本周末到访马阿拉歌庄园的时候，他不会向安倍晋三收取住宿费。“这是总统送给首相的礼物，”白宫新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)——全世界最凄惨的人——说道。
That was the grand gesture. Meanwhile, you could argue that Trump is using a visit by an important foreign leader to promote one of his brands.
这是在摆高姿态。与此同时，你也可以认为，特朗普正趁一位重要的外国领导人来访之机推广自己的品牌。
At least Abe has not been requested to pose holding up a gift bottle of Trump wine. As far as we know.
至少安倍晋三未被要求捧着受赠的一瓶特朗普牌葡萄酒摆姿势照相。据我们所知是没有。