Like many semifamous people, Tom Perkins has publicly wondered how he will be remembered. As the venture capitalist who helped start Silicon Valley? As the extremely rich guy who built the most awesome sailing yacht of the era? Or even — although this is a long shot — as the author of the supremely trashy novel “Sex and the Single Zillionaire?”
像很多小有名气的人一样，汤姆·珀金斯(Tom Perkins)曾公开询问自己如何才能被人们记住。像那些帮助开发硅谷(Silicon Valley)的风险投资家那样？像那个建造了这个时代最棒游艇的富人那样？或者是像垃圾小说《性与单身亿万富翁》(Sex and the Single Zillionaire)的作者那样？当然这成功的机会相当渺茫。
Well, how about as the champion of America’s newest oppressed minority, the beleaguered billionaires of Silicon Valley?
美国最近备受压迫的少数派——被围困的硅谷亿万富翁们的卫士，这个称号怎么样？
Mr. Perkins came Thursday night to the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco to defend the tech elite against the forces that would bring them down. His appearance was titled “The War on the 1 Percent.” Three police officers stood watch, just in case the crowd decided to take the battle into its own hands.The police look ready for the Tom Perkins’ “War on the 1 Percent” talk at San Francisco’s Commonwealth Club http://t.co/TptBeGsf2j
珀金斯周四晚间来到旧金山的联邦俱乐部，面对那些想要扳倒技术精英们的人们，为他们展开辩护。珀金斯参与的活动名叫“为1%的人而战”(The War on the 1 Percent)。现场有三名警察执勤，以防观众决定自己出手进行攻击。在旧金山的联邦俱乐部，汤姆·珀金斯“为1%的人而战”的演讲将要开始，警察们做好准备。http://t.co/TptBeGsf2j
— Josh Harkinson (@JoshHarkinson) 14 Feb 14The 82-year-old venture capitalist, whose ex-wife, the novelist Danielle Steel, was also at the event, was prepared with a list of villains: Bloated government entitlements. Teachers’ unions. The War on Poverty. President Obama and “ObamaCare.” High taxes. And old-fashioned jealousy.
——Josh Harkinson (@JoshHarkinson) 14 Feb 14。珀金斯的前妻、小说家丹尼尔·斯蒂尔(Danielle Steel)当时也在现场。这名82岁的风险投资家在活动中遇到了一系列难题：庞大的政府福利项目、教师工会、反贫困战争、奥巴马总统和“奥巴马医改”(Obamacare)、高税收，以及守旧的嫉妒心理。
Leave the tech companies alone, he insisted. Activists should not block their commuter shuttles or expect anything from them. Google may be able to cheat death — at least, it is funding a venture with that goal — but inequality is beyond it.
他强调称，不要找科技公司的麻烦。活动人士不应该阻拦他们的通勤工具，不应该期待从他们那里得到什么。谷歌(Google)或许能够逃过一劫——至少，这是它投资创办公司的目标，但不平等的问题不在它的掌控范围内。
“We started Google,” Mr. Perkins said, a reference to Kleiner Perkins being an early backer of the search company. “If they want buses, fine with me. Is Google responsible for the rising rents in San Francisco? Indirectly, yes. What can they do about it? Nothing.”
“我们开创了谷歌，”珀金斯这里是指早期支持这家搜索公司的凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins)。“如果他们想要巴士，我没意见。旧金山地区的租金上涨，这是谷歌的责任吗？是的，间接导致的。他们能为此做什么呢？什么也做不了。”
He later returned to the company during a brief press conference. “The founders of Google have made so much money” he said, “I think there’s an envy.” His advice for Google: “You just ignore the protesters.” Which is pretty much what Google is doing. (The protesters were city residents who were annoyed that tech companies were using city bus stops for their buses; the city and the companies have since agreed to a small fee.)
他后来在简短的新闻发布会期间再次谈到谷歌。“谷歌的创始人赚了那么多钱，”他说，“我觉得这会遭人嫉妒。”他为谷歌提出了以下建议：“别管那些抗议者。”谷歌基本上就是这么做的。（恼火的市民提出抗议，因为一些科技公司的巴士使用旧金山的巴士站，旧金山市和这些公司已经达成一致，公司缴纳少量费用。）
The hurriedly arranged event was sold out, which was not true of forthcoming appearances by Sen. Barbara Boxer, His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco or even Amy Chua, the Tiger Mom. Politics, royalty and how to raise kids might be big draws elsewhere, but in the Bay Area the tech community has a way of sucking the air out of all other topics.
这场匆忙安排的活动的票早已售罄，但参议员芭芭拉·博克瑟(Barbara Boxer)、摩纳哥阿尔贝二世亲王(Prince Albert II)，就连虎妈蔡美儿(Amy Chua)即将亮相的活动，也没有那么受欢迎。政治、王室，以及如何抚养孩子这些话题或许在其他地方颇具吸引力，但在旧金山湾区(Bay Area)，这一科技群体就是有办法抢走其它话题的风头。
Particularly now. There is a mood of rising dissent against Silicon Valley, whose workers are blamed for making San Francisco unaffordable for everyone else. Mr. Perkins first came to widespread attention a few weeks ago by comparing anti-tech demonstrators to Nazis. We might be heading, he said, to a new Kristallnacht, when Hitler Youth and stormtroopers were unleashed against Jews and their businesses.
特别是现在。人们对硅谷越来越不满，指责硅谷员工让其他所有人都负担不起在旧金山的生活费用。珀金斯几周前首次引起了广泛关注，当时他将反科技公司的示威者比作纳粹。他说，我们可能正在走向新的水晶之夜(Kristallnacht)，当时希特勒青年团(Hitler Youth)和突击队员出动，袭击了犹太人和他们的商店。
He quickly disavowed the analogy, but not the reasoning behind it. In other words, he did not mean that protesters would be literally beating up everyone wearing Google Glass and carting off Larry Page and Sergey Brin to internment camps. Just that they would like to.
他很快便对这个类比予以否认，但却并未否认其背后的逻辑。换句话说，他的意思不是说抗议者真的会殴打任何戴谷歌眼镜的人，将拉里·佩奇(Larry Page)和谢尔盖·布林(Sergey Brin)强行带到集中营。只是说他们有这种想法。
“I’m not sorry I did it,” he said Thursday night. For one thing, he noted, it got everyone’s attention.
周四晚间，他表示，“我不后悔说了这样的话。”他指出，因为这至少引起了大家的关注。
Mr. Perkins’ interlocutor, Adam Lashinsky, soon had the frustrated look of a man trying to swim in a vat of molasses. Mr. Lashinsky pointed out, for instance, that it was ridiculous to equate powerless Jews in the Third Reich with extremely powerful tech overlords in present-day America.
参加此次对话的亚当·拉申斯基(Adam Lashinsky)很快露出哭笑不得的表情，就像一个设法在一大桶糖浆里游泳的人。例如，拉申斯基指出，把第三帝国(Third Reich)里无助的犹太人和当今美国权力滔天的技术霸主相提并论，实在可笑。
“No, I think the parallel holds,” Mr. Perkins said calmly. For one thing, “If you pay 75 percent of your life’s earnings to the government you are being persecuted.”
珀金斯冷静地说，“不，我认为这个比喻是站得住脚的。”首先，“如果你一生中75%的收入都被用于给政府纳税，你就正在受到迫害。”
He had a better plan: “You don’t get to vote unless you pay a dollar in taxes. later he added, “A million in taxes, you get a million votes.” He said he was kidding about that last part, kind of. But he was serious that things started to go wrong 50 years ago with President Johnson’s War on Poverty, which somehow led to the teachers going out of control. He said that in the entire country last year, only 14 teachers “were fired for incompetence.” (For Mr. Perkins’ views on taxes, follow this link to DealBook, )
他有一个更好的计划：“如果你一个子儿的税都不交，你就不能投票。”之后他接着说，“你交了100万美元的税，就该拿到100万张选票。”他说后一句有点儿是在开玩笑。不过，他表达以下观点时是认真的，即自50年前约翰逊(Johnson)总统向贫困宣战(War on Poverty)开始，情况就不对了，不知怎么的，这项行动导致了教师队伍的失控。他说，去年，全国仅有14名教师“因为不称职被解雇”。（有关珀金斯对税收的观点，请点击此链接访问DealBook。）
Demonstrators do not need to storm the gates of Silicon Valley. With spokesmen like Mr. Perkins, the tech community will alienate the entire country in no time.
其实，示威者不需要冲击硅谷的大门。有像珀金斯这样的发言人，科技界很快就会站到整个国家的对立面。