If you happened to watch CNN on Friday morning, you saw a brutal exchange about Russian hacking between a righteous anchor with steam coming out of his ears and a right-wing operative with ice in her veins.
如果你周五早上碰巧在看CNN，应该会看到一场关于俄罗斯网络入侵行动的激烈交锋，对阵双方分别是耳朵冒着热气的正义主播，和血管里结着冰的右翼行动执行人。
“Chris Cuomo bulldozes Kellyanne Conway,” said a headline in one of the many publications so impressed by the encounter that they reported on it.
“克里斯·科莫(Chris Cuomo)碾压凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)，”一个新闻标题这样写道，这场对战太过精彩，以至于许多媒体做了报道。
If you happened to watch CNN on Monday morning, you saw that Conway was actually back with Cuomo for more.
如果你周一早上碰巧在看CNN，应该会看到康维再次上科莫的节目，受更多的罪。
Surprised? Then you don’t know the first thing about her.
感到奇怪？那说明你太不了解康维了。
She’s no mere mouthpiece, no measly surrogate. She’s more like the David Blaine of political spin, intent on working feats of magic that few others would attempt and surviving situations that would cripple any ordinary mortal. He catches a bullet in his mouth; she makes Donald Trump sound like a humble servant of the common man. He lasts 44 days in a plexiglass case over the Thames; she lasts 40 minutes with Rachel Maddow on MSNBC.
她不仅仅是传声筒，也不仅仅是代理人。她更像是政治舆论控制界的大卫·布雷恩(David Blaine)，一心一意地表演很少有人会尝试的魔术，从任何肉体凡胎都会被搞残的状况中逃生。他用嘴接子弹；她让唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)听上去像是服务于普通人的谦卑公仆。他在泰晤士河上的一个有机玻璃箱里捱过了44天；她在MSNBC节目上面对雷切尔·玛多(Rachel Maddow)捱过了40分钟。
She reunited with Cuomo not just to pooh-pooh Vladimir Putin’s misdeeds anew but to answer Meryl Streep’s complaint about the way Trump once mocked a disabled journalist. And she came up with that gem about disregarding the president-elect’s words and judging him instead by what’s in his heart, which she apparently knows to be good. She has done Blaine one better. She’s a stuntwoman and a cardiologist.
她和科莫重聚，不仅为了驳斥与弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的最新不端行径有关的消息，还为了回应梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)关于特朗普曾如何嘲弄一名残疾记者的指控。她想出了一个绝好的点子，提议人们在评判候任总统时忽略其言论，重视其内心——她显然知道特朗普的内心是极好的。她比布雷恩更胜一筹。她是一名特技替身演员和心脏病学家。
As the cabinet nominees submit to their inquisitions and Trump holds his first news conference since the election, there’s a surfeit of political spectacle this week.
随着内阁提名人选接受问讯，以及特朗普召开当选以来的首次新闻发布会，本周出现了大量政治奇观。
But for sheer, jaw-dropping wonder, I doubt that any of it will improve on a typical Conway television interview, which is a circus of euphemisms, a festival of distractions and a testament to the stamina of a willed smile. She looks cheery when attacking, even cheerier when attacked and absolutely radiant when descending into a bog of half-truths and fictions. It’s always sunny on Conway’s side of the street.
但说到纯粹的令人张口结舌的奇观，我怀疑它们中的任何一个都比不上一场典型的康维电视采访——那些访谈是委婉语的马戏表演，是转移话题大法的节日，彰显了长时间挤出微笑的过人耐力。她在发起攻击时显得很愉快，在被攻击时会显得更愉快，沉入由半真半假的和杜撰出来的信息构成的沼泽时，则简直是容光焕发了。康维待在街道的哪一边，哪一边就阳光明媚。
And it’s always a landslide when her candidate wins. She describes Trump’s victory as a mandate — never mind its narrowness or all that Russian nefariousness — and dismisses his critics by citing their inability to see that heady triumph coming. They had no foresight. Now they have no grounds.
当她辅佐的候选人获胜时，永远都是压倒性胜利。她把特朗普的胜选描绘成受命于民——丝毫不介怀险胜的事实，或者俄罗斯的所有邪恶行径——她驳斥特朗普的批评者，说他们没能看到引人注目的胜利即将到来。以前他们没有远见。现在他们的观点站不住脚。
Waving away what Hollywood stars said about Trump at the Golden Globes, she told Cuomo: “That place, this network, frankly, all believed the election would turn out a different way.”
她拒绝接受好莱坞明星在金球奖颁奖典礼上对特朗普的批评，并告诉科莫：“那个地方，这个电视台，坦白说，本来全都以为大选的结果会是另一副样子。”
She also questioned why Streep would go after Trump and not the “four young African-American adults in Chicago screaming racial anti-Trump expletives” at a disabled young man in that chilling Facebook Live video. Is this the new bar for taking Trump to task? You can’t do it until you’ve completed a roll call of every bully in the news?
她还质疑斯特里普为什么揪住特朗普不放，而不去谴责“芝加哥那四个年轻的非裔美国成年人”，他们在一段令人齿冷的Facebook直播中对着一名身患残疾的年轻人“喊着种族主义的、反特朗普的脏话”。这是谴责特朗普之前必须跨越的新门槛吗？如果不把新闻里的霸凌者全都指责一遍，就不能说特朗普一个不字？
“Saturday Night Live” is transfixed by Conway, but they don’t get her quite right. As portrayed by Kate McKinnon, she experiences pinpricks of horror over abetting Trump’s ascent. The real-life Conway shows no such remorse. She’s exultant to the point of taunting Hillary Clinton’s aides for their defeat, as she did when she appeared with them at Harvard in December for an election post-mortem.
康维把《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)震住了，但他们始终没太吃透她。凯特·麦金农(Kate McKinnon)所演绎的康维在推动特朗普崛起的过程中经历了很多恐怖时刻。但现实生活中的康维不会表现出这种懊悔。她兴高采烈到了会嘲弄希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)那些落败的助手的程度，她在去年11月和他们一起到哈佛大学对大选进行事后剖析时便是如此。
That was the occasion of my favorite Conway-ism. She was asked if Trump’s baseless insistence that he would have won the popular vote except for millions of illegal ballots constituted presidential behavior.
这是颇能展现我喜爱的康维主义的场合。有人问她，特朗普毫无根据地坚称，如果剔除数百万张非法选票自己就能赢得普选，这是不是总统该有的行为。
“He’s the president-elect, so that’s presidential behavior,” she said.
“他是候任总统，所以这就是总统该有的行为，”她回答。
Many journalists don’t get Conway quite right, either, assigning her more power in Trump World than she has. When you’re doing that much TV, you can be in only so many meetings.
很多记者也没太理解康维，以为她在特朗普帝国里拥有的权力比实际的要大。当一个人要上那么多的电视节目时，是不可能有多少时间去开会的。
What she possesses is a showmanship that Trump can’t help appreciating. I know dozens of people who despise her politics but are mesmerized by her performances. She’s the Streep of “Fox & Friends” (of “Morning Joe,” too) and a perfect emblem of these polarized times, when no claim is too laughable or denial too ludicrous if it counters the supposed insidiousness of the other side.
她所拥有的是一种令特朗普禁不住赞叹的演艺才能。我认识好几十个人虽然厌恶她的政治观点，但却折服于她的表演。她是《福克斯与朋友们》(Fox & Friends)（以及《早安，乔》[Morning Joe]）节目上的斯特里普；是分裂时代的完美符号，在这样的时代里，没有任何主张或否认会显得太过可笑或荒唐，只要可以用它们来对抗想象中的另一方的险恶用心。
She’s also the gold-haired standard for a rising generation of unflappable partisans. I imagine that Kayleigh McEnany, the Trump apologist on CNN, studies her moves the way a backup quarterback watches the starter. Should Conway go down with a broken fibula, McEnany’s ready to lead the drive.
一头金发的她也为正在崛起的一代头脑冷静的党派人士树立了标准范本。我猜想在CNN为特朗普辩护的凯莉·麦肯内尼(Kayleigh McEnany)在研究她的举止，就好像一个替补四分位密切关注着首发球员。如果康维因摔断腓骨而下场，麦肯内尼就会立马顶上。
The Trump booster Anthony Scaramucci is perhaps another of the sorceress’ apprentices. With MSNBC’s Stephanie Ruhle last week, he was Conway-esque in pivoting from the questions he was asked to the answers he preferred to give.
特朗普的热情支持者安东尼·斯卡拉穆奇(Anthony Scaramucci)或许是女法师的另一名学徒。上周，面对MSNBC的斯蒂芬妮·鲁尔(Stephanie Ruhle)，他以康维的套路绕开被问及的问题，给出了他想要给出的答案。
But he needs practice: I heard nothing at the altitude of Conway’s claim this week that the Democrats demanding more financial information from Trump’s nominees were “political peeping Toms.” What pith. What alliteration. What a year we’re in for.
但他还需要练习：我没听到任何可以和康维本周的说法比肩的东西——她说那些想让特朗普的提名人选公开更多财务信息的民主党人是“政治偷窥癖”(political peeping Toms)。多么精辟。多妙的头韵。我们迎来的是怎样的一年啊。