DEBATE over e-cigarettes — battery-powered cigarette look-alikes that heat liquid nicotine but emit a harmless vapor — is raging. New York City and Chicago are considering adding e-cigarettes to their bans on smoking in bars, restaurants and parks, and Los Angeles is moving to restrict e-cigarette sales, even though e-cigarettes don’t generate smoke and, while not proved to be entirely safe for users, are undoubtedly less hazardous than tobacco cigarettes.
人们正在围绕电子香烟展开激烈的争论；这种产品外观类似香烟，由电池供电，加热液态尼古丁，但只会散发无害的水蒸气。电子香烟不会产生烟雾，虽然没有证据显示它对吸烟者完全无害，但它产生的危害无疑比烟草少。尽管如此，纽约市和芝加哥还是在考虑把电子香烟列入名单，在禁止吸烟的酒吧、餐馆和公园同样禁用电子香烟；洛杉矶也在采取行动限制电子香烟的销售。
The evidence, while still thin, suggests that many e-cigarette users, hoping to kick the habit, use e-cigarettes as a safer alternative to tobacco. Research also suggests that e-cigarettes may be better at helping to sustain smoking cessation than pharmaceutical products like nicotine patches or gums.
虽然证据还不确凿，但已经有初步迹象表明，很多电子香烟使用者都有戒烟意向，他们把电子香烟作为一种比较安全的烟草替代品来使用。研究还表明，与尼古丁贴片这样的医药产品或口香糖相比，电子香烟在帮助人们坚持戒烟方面效果更好。
No one believes nicotine addiction is a good thing, and our qualified support for e-cigarettes is not one we reach lightly. Although some e-cigarette manufacturers have no links to the tobacco industry, Big Tobacco is consuming an ever-greater share of the e-cigarette market. It is hard for public health advocates like us to look favorably on anything the industry wants. But history shows that harm reduction — the doctrine that many risks cannot be eradicated and that efforts are best spent on minimizing the resulting harm — has had an important place in antismoking efforts and suggests that regulation is better than prohibition.
没有人认为尼古丁上瘾是件好事，而我们决定对电子香烟给予一定的支持，也并非轻率之举。虽然有些电子香烟厂家与烟草行业之间并没有关系，但烟草巨头们在电子香烟市场上的份额正在日益增加。对于像我们这样的公共健康倡导者来说，任何烟草业想要做的事，我们都不情愿去支持。但历史表明，“减害”这个原则——意思是说，很多风险都是无法根除的，最好是把侧重点放在尽量减少它所导致的危害上面——在反烟草活动中占有重要地位，它提示我们：监管优于禁令。
It’s been only a half-century since the federal government took an interest in making tobacco products safer. In 1964, Surgeon General Luther L. Terry issued a watershed report definitively linking smoking with lung cancer. But he also described research into new kinds of cigarettes as “a promising avenue for further development.” In the early 1970s, the government spent some $6 million a year to try to develop safer tobacco products. Even the health secretary Joseph A. Califano Jr., who called smoking “Public Enemy No. 1,” saw, in 1978, a place for “research aimed at creating a less hazardous cigarette.” As late as 1981, the surgeon general advised smokers who couldn’t or wouldn’t quit to switch to low-tar and low-nicotine brands.
联邦政府对提高烟草产品安全性的关注，不过就是半个世纪前才开始的。1964年，总医官(Surgeon General)卢瑟·L·特里(Luther L. Terry)发布了一份具有划时代意义的报告，明确地把吸烟与肺癌联系起来。但他同时也表示，研究各种新型香烟“对于进一步的发展来说，是一条有前途的道路。”在70年代初期，政府在更安全的烟草产品开发上每年大约支出600万美元。即使是把吸烟称作“头号公敌”的卫生部长小·约瑟夫·A·卡利法诺(Joseph A. Califano Jr.)也在1978年指出，“研究开发一种危险性较小的香烟”是有意义的。一直到1981年，总医官还会建议那些戒不了烟或者不愿意戒烟的烟民改吸焦油和尼古丁含量较低的香烟品牌。
The American Cancer Society, while worried that the development of less hazardous cigarettes might derail efforts to deter people from smoking or getting them to quit, supported “frank scientific discussion about the possibilities of developing cigarettes that will be less harmful and still satisfying to smokers.”
美国癌症协会(American Cancer Society)担心开发危害性较小的香烟对吓阻或劝说人们戒烟可能是不利的，但也支持“对开发危害性较小、同时又能满足烟民嗜好的香烟的可能性进行坦率的科学探讨。”
This effort came to a halt in the 1980s, when stunning revelations from high-profile court cases demonstrated that the tobacco industry had lied about the dangers of smoking for decades and even manipulated the levels of nicotine in its products to ensure that smokers stayed hooked. The magnitude of the deception made it nearly impossible to consider the possibility of a “safer” tobacco product. It inspired, among advocates, opposition to anything less than total cessation.
这些做法在上世纪80年代停了下来，因为当时一宗影响巨大的法庭案件曝光了一个令人震惊的秘密：烟草业几十年来一直谎报吸烟的危害性，甚至通过控制产品中的尼古丁水平让吸烟者离不开香烟。这种欺骗行径性质太恶劣，人们几乎已经不可能再相信会有“比较安全”的香烟产品。因此，除了彻底戒烟之外，其他任何做法都会招致倡导者的反对。
This new stance was supported by the availability of over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapies and a focus on protection of bystanders from secondhand smoke. As the head of the American Heart Association put it in 2000: “There is no such thing as a safer cigarette.”
由于人们可以轻松买到尼古丁替代疗法的非处方药品，而且变得更加重视对二手烟受害者的保护，对彻底戒烟的新立场提供了支持，正如美国心脏协会(American Heart Association)的负责人在2000年所说：“较安全的香烟这种东西是不存在的”。
The irony is that, during these same years, AIDS prompted public health advocates to support needle exchange for users of intravenous drugs, a harm-reduction approach that also drew fire from those who favored complete elimination of drug use. Fears that such programs would lead to greater illicit drug use have been definitively put to rest.
具有讽刺意味的​​是，就在那段时期，艾滋病问题促使公共健康倡导人士开始支持为静脉注射毒品使用者准备的交换针头项目，这种“减害”方法同样遭到了彻底戒毒派的大力反对。后者害怕它会导致人们更多地非法使用毒品，现在，这种担心无疑已经消除。
Of course the analogy is not exact: Unlike clean needles, which present no independent harms to injecting drug users, less risky alternatives to smoking, like smokeless chewing tobacco and the moist tobacco product known as snus, carry a grave risk: oral cancers.
当然这个类比并不严谨：干净的针具本身不会给注射毒品使用者带来危害，而风险较小的替代香烟产品，比如不散发烟雾的嚼烟，以及被称为鼻烟的湿烟产品，都有一个重大风险：口腔癌。
E-cigarettes potentially overcome that barrier. Most experts consider nicotine harmful only at extremely high doses. Tobacco control advocates tolerate the long-term use of therapies like the nicotine patch and nicotine gum despite their approval only as temporary smoking-cessation aids. In 2000, the chairman of a Public Health Service panel called tobacco dependence a “chronic condition that warrants repeated treatment,” even if that meant treating smokers “for the rest of their lives.”
电子香烟可能可以克服这个问题。大多数专家认为，只有在摄入极高剂量的情况下，尼古丁才会产生危害。控烟倡导者对长期使用尼古丁贴片和尼古丁口香糖等药物持宽容态度，尽管它们只被允许作为“临时戒烟辅助疗法”。2000年，公共卫生局(Public Health Service)的一个专家组把烟草依赖症称为一种“慢性疾病，需要反复治疗”，哪怕是要“终其一生”地治疗下去。
Advocates fear that e-cigarettes will serve as a gateway to deadly cigarettes — or sustain smokers in public settings where lighting up is banned. “Waiting to act,” New York City’s health commissioner, Thomas A. Farley, said, “is a risk we should not take.”
倡导者们担心，电子香烟会诱使一些使用者开始吸真的香烟——或者让烟民得以在禁烟的公共场所过烟瘾。纽约市卫生专员托马斯·A·法利(Thomas A. Farley)说，“等待观望的风险是我们无法承受的。”
But there is a price to such rigidity. Emotion should not rule out harm reduction, even if eradication of smoking is the ultimate goal. Banning vaping in public won’t help. Instead, e-cigarettes should be regulated by the Food and Drug Administration as products “sold or distributed for use to reduce harm or the risk of tobacco-related disease.” The industry can’t be trusted to provide safer products. The historical mistake was not the pursuit of a safer cigarette, but championing that cause with dishonest partners.
但是，这样严苛的做法是要付出代价的。即使最终目标是根除吸烟现象，我们也不应该凭感情行事，把“减害”理念彻底抛开。禁止在公共场所吸电子香烟也无济于事。相反，电子香烟应该作为一种“为了减害或者降低跟烟草有关的疾病的风险而销售、分销或使用”的东西，要接受美国食品与药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)监管。我们不能指望烟草行业提供比较安全的产品。以历史经验来说，追求更加安全的香烟不是错误，与不诚实的合作伙伴一起追求它才是。
If e-cigarettes can reduce, even slightly, the blight of six million tobacco-related deaths a year, trying to force them out of sight is counterproductive.
每年有600万人死于与烟草有关的疾病，如果电子香烟可以减少这个数字，哪怕只是非常少的一点，那么禁止人们使用它都会造成一种消极的影响。