President Donald Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., was promised damaging information about Hillary Clinton before agreeing to meet with a Kremlin-connected Russian lawyer during the 2016 campaign, according to three advisers to the White House briefed on the meeting and two others with knowledge of it.
据三名听过情况汇报的白宫顾问以及两名知情者表示，2016年的总统竞选活动期间，在有人承诺向特朗普总统的长子小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)提供希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的黑材料后，他同意和一名与克里姆林宫有联系的俄罗斯律师会面。
The meeting was also attended by his campaign chairman at the time, Paul Manafort, and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Manafort and Kushner only recently disclosed the meeting, though not its content, in confidential government documents described to The New York Times.
特朗普当时的竞选主席保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)和他的女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)也参加了会面。马纳福特和库什纳直到最近才在机密的政府文件中披露了这次会面的存在，但没有提到交谈内容，该文件被《纽约时报》获悉。
The Times reported the existence of the meeting on Saturday. But in subsequent interviews, the advisers and others revealed the motivation behind it.
时报在周六报道了这次会面的存在。但在随后的采访中，这些顾问及其他人透露了会面的动机。
The meeting — at Trump Tower on June 9, 2016, two weeks after Donald Trump clinched the Republican nomination — points to the central question in federal investigations of the Kremlin’s meddling in the presidential election: whether the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians. The accounts of the meeting represent the first public indication that at least some in the campaign were willing to accept Russian help.
这次会面是特朗普获得共和党提名两周之后，于2016年6月9日在特朗普大厦进行的，它直指联邦调查克里姆林宫干预美国总统大选的核心问题：特朗普的竞选活动是否与俄罗斯人有勾结。对这次会面的叙述第一次公开表明，他的竞选活动中至少有一些人愿意接受俄罗斯的帮助。
The episode at Trump Tower is the first such confirmed private meeting involving members of his inner circle during the campaign — as well as the first one known to have included his eldest son.
发生在特朗普大厦的这件事，是特朗普竞选的内部圈子成员在竞选期间首个经过证实的此种私下会面，也是首个已知涉及其长子的会面。
It is unclear whether the Russian lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya, produced the promised compromising information about Clinton. But the people interviewed by The Times about the meeting said the expectation was that she would do so.
目前尚不清楚，这名俄罗斯律师娜塔莉娅·维塞尼茨卡雅(Natalia Veselnitskaya)是否真的提供了关于克林顿的黑料。但接受时报采访的人士表示，特朗普的人希望她可以提供。
In a statement Sunday, Trump Jr. said he had met with the Russian lawyer at the request of an acquaintance. “After pleasantries were exchanged,” he said, “the woman stated that she had information that individuals connected to Russia were funding the Democratic National Committee and supporting Ms. Clinton. Her statements were vague, ambiguous and made no sense. No details or supporting information was provided or even offered. It quickly became clear that she had no meaningful information.”
小特朗普在周日的一个声明中说，他是应某个熟人之请见这名俄罗斯律师的。“说完客套话之后，”他说，“这名女士表示，有一些与俄罗斯有联系的人在为民主党全国委员会提供资金，力挺克林顿，她有这方面的资料。她的说法笼统模糊，毫无意义。她没有给出任何细节和支持性的信息，甚至提都没有提到。我们很快就明白，她没有掌握任何有意义的资料。”
He said she then turned the conversation to adoption of Russian children and the Magnitsky Act, a U.S. law that blacklists suspected Russian human rights abusers. The law so enraged President Vladimir Putin of Russia that he retaliated by halting U.S. adoptions of Russian children.
他说，然后她就把话题转到了收养俄罗斯孩子和《马格尼茨基法案》(Magnitsky Act)上。这是一项美国法律，要求把涉嫌侵犯人权的俄罗斯人列入黑名单。该法律令俄罗斯总统普京大为恼火，他采取报复措施，不再让美国人收养俄罗斯儿童。
“It became clear to me that this was the true agenda all along and that the claims of potentially helpful information were a pretext for the meeting,” Trump Jr. said.
“我发现这才是她至始至终的真正议程，声称拥有可能有用的信息只是会面的借口，”小特朗普说。
Mark Corallo, a spokesman for the president’s lawyer, said Sunday that “the president was not aware of and did not attend the meeting.”
总统律师的发言人马克·科拉洛(Mark Corallo)周日表示：“总统既不知道，也没有参加这次会面。”