Sasha Lord has never met the residents of Hell or Namaste, Om shanti, but she has spent a lot of time thinking about them. For a while, every time Ms. Lord, a 32-year-old band promoter in Arlington, Va., posted a photograph on Instagram from her studio apartment, she was reminded of their existence.
萨莎·洛德(Sasha Lord)今年32岁，是乐队推广人，现居弗吉尼亚州阿灵顿(Arlington, Va.)。她虽然从来没有见过“地狱”(Hell)和“向您鞠躬，愿和平与安宁永在”(Namaste, Om Shanti)的居民，但是有一段时间，她每次用Instagram上传自己的单间公寓照片时，总是会注意到这些人的存在。
Select filter. Write caption. Name location. It was during that final step in uploading her photo that a list of places nearby would pop up — not just the names of businesses in the area, but nicknames people had given their homes. Hell and Namaste, Om shanti were always near the top. Courtesy of geotagging software, Ms. Lord was being introduced time and again to two of her closest neighbors and their diametrically opposed outlooks on life.
选择滤镜。为图片写注释。命名所在地。正是在上传照片的最后一步，界面上会显示出一个附近地点的清单——其中不仅包括本地区的商户名，还包括人们为自己家起的绰号。“地狱”和“向您鞠躬，愿和平与安宁永在”总是排在前列。拜位置标注软件所赐，洛德时不时就会注意到离她最近的两个邻居、以及这两个人截然相反的人生观。
“I know it sounds silly,” she said. “But it made me sad to think there were people living in Hell so close by.”
“我知道这样说挺傻的，”她说，“不过一想到有人住在‘地狱’里，而且离我家那么近，我就觉得难过。”
Then again, she added: “Everywhere I go, it’s Om Shanti, Shanti, Namaste. I am a yoga person, but it’s, like, ‘O.K., really?’ ”
接着，她补充道：“不管我走到哪里，总会看到Om Shanti、Shanti、Namaste。我是练瑜伽的人，但是一看到这些词，我的反应总是，‘好吧，真的要叫这个吗？’”
As it turned out, Ms. Lord’s tranquillity-loving neighbor in Namaste, Om shanti had also found herself pondering Hell, which had mysteriously disappeared.
事实表明，住在“向您鞠躬，愿和平与安宁永在”的那个喜欢清静的邻居也在纳闷，为什么有人会把自己家叫做“地狱”。这个地点，已经神秘消失了。
“I definitely wondered, is someone in trouble?” said Shelley Tidmore, 35, a health and lifestyle coach, who watched the Foursquare check-ins into the underworld from her carefully named home: Namaste, Om shanti refers specifically to her yoga space, while her bathing area goes by Princess Shower, Heaven on Earth. (No photos there, only check-ins.) When referring to her home as a whole on social media, she calls it Apollo’s Palace of Wonder, in homage to her hairless cat.
“我确实想过，是不是有人遇到麻烦了？”35岁的健康与生活方式教练谢莉·蒂德莫尔(Shelley Tidmore)说。她在Foursquare上查看了那个“阴曹地府”的签到记录。而“向您鞠躬，愿和平与安宁永在”这个名字是她认真起的，但只特指她练习瑜伽的区域。沐浴区则被她取名为“公主浴，人间天堂”(Princess Shower, Heaven on Earth)（没有照片，只有签到记录）。至于她的家，作为一个整体，她在社交媒体上提到它时，称之为“阿波罗的奇迹之宫”(Apollo's Palace of Wonder)，作为对自家养的斯芬克斯猫的致敬。
In an odd twist of 21st-century life, the location updates that are an integral part of social media like Instagram, Foursquare and Facebook seem to have resurrected a tradition of the moneyed elite: home naming. Modest suburban houses, tiny urban apartments and a variety of other kinds of residences — unimposing places where no one would ever bother to hang anything so formal as a sign — now have their own digital placards, offering a glimpse of who lives there, how they see themselves and how they want others to see them.
地点更新，已成为Instagram、Foursquare、Facebook等社交媒体不可缺少的一大功能，它似乎复兴了富豪精英的一大传统：给家宅命名。这一古老的传统，在21世纪里发生了奇妙的改变。朴实的郊区住宅、迷你的都市公寓、乃至其他各类住房，原本都是些不起眼的地方，没有人会专门在门口悬挂牌匾这么正式的东西——如今，它们有了专属的数码门牌，人们可以据此一瞥这家人的情况，比如家庭成员有哪些、他们怎么看待自己、他们希望被外界怎样看待。
There is no comprehensive map of all the geotagged homes in the world, but if you know where to look, they’re everywhere. Take a meandering bike ride through New York City, posting to Instagram as you go, and Zach and Tom’s Crooked Castle in the Sky, Hidden Shadow Village and Team Dying Alone HQ may emerge as suggested locations. Or simply scroll through the social-media streams of Facebook or Instagram and you may happen upon a video of a party tagged to Candyland, the home of Jeremy Bowditch, 30, a freelance photographer, or an image of sunflowers that leads you to the Habitat, the Chicago residence of Anjali Pinto, 25, another freelance photographer.
没有任何地图全方位地展示了全世界带有位置标签的住宅，但是如果你知道该从哪儿找，就会发现它们到处都是。你只要骑车在纽约市的大街小巷到处转悠，一边走，一边在Instagram上传照片，你就会发现，“扎克和汤姆的天空歪城堡”(Zach and Tom’s Crooked Castle in the Sky)、“隐逸暗影村”(Hidden Shadow Village)、“独自死去联合会总部”(Team Dying Alone HQ)这样的地名提示，一一出现在界面上。或者，你只需要将Facebook或Instagram的页面往下拉，或许刚好就能找到一个标签为“糖果王国”(Candyland)派对视频、或一张向日葵的图片。“糖果王国”的主人，是30岁的自由摄影师杰里米·鲍迪奇(Jeremy Bowditch)。向日葵的图片则会将你引至“栖息地”(Habitat)，其主人是同为自由摄影师的安贾利·平托(Anjali Pinto)，今年25岁，现居芝加哥。
All of this is ages away from the origins of the tradition, which lives on in its original form in many places, as Donald Trump discovered to his dismay several years ago when he renamed Menie House, a 14th-century manor in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, MacLeod House in honor of his mother, Mary MacLeod, and was accused of erasing 700 years of Scottish history. (Mr. Trump’s critics took issue with his assertion that it was “a fairly minor change,” as his spokesman characterized it in The Sunday Times.)
这些做法与当年的传统相比，已经过去了很多个年头。几年前，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)曾将苏格兰阿伯丁郡(Aberdeenshire)的14世纪庄园门尼大宅(Menie House)改名为麦克劳德大宅(MacLeod House)，以纪念他的母亲玛丽·麦克劳德(Mary MacLeod）。结果，令他沮丧的是，此举遭到了人们的口诛笔伐，说他抹去了苏格兰700年的历史。（特朗普的发言人在接受《星期日泰晤士报》[The Sunday Times]采访时，将这一行为定性为“一个非常细微的改变”。但特朗普的批评人士持有不同看法。）
In the United States, home naming peaked more than a century ago, said Thomas C. Hubka, a professor at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee architecture school. And unlike in Britain, where even modest homes often have names, it was the province of the very wealthy.
威斯康星大学密尔沃基分校(University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee)建筑学院的教授托马斯·C·胡布卡(Thomas C. Hubka)说，在美国，住宅命名的现象在一个多世纪前达到了高峰。这与英国的情况不同，在英国，命名住宅只是超级富豪才做的事情。
But Frank Hebbert, an urban planner working on a project to map the historical names of every residential building in New York City, said that what’s happening now is very different: “What you are seeing is that people are treating their homes more like the rest of their digital identity.”
但是城市规划师弗兰克·赫伯特(Frank Hebbert)认为，现在发生的情况与过去有着很大区别：“现在你看到的是，人们更倾向于将自家住房与其他数码身份相等同。”赫伯特目前正在进行一个项目，将纽约市所有住宅楼的历史名称制成地图。
This means not only that “it’s extremely customizable,” he said, but also that there is a new order when it comes to what impresses. Once, an engraved placard with a British or French name or the surname of a well-known family was a sign of prestige; now what matters is digital savvy. “What you see with the digital naming,” Mr. Hebbert said, “is that if I want to give my apartment a Hawaiian-themed name, I can do that, and I use that as social currency.”
他说，这不仅仅意味着住宅命名的“自由度极大”，而且意味着命名的审美标准发生了改变。过去，一张铭刻着英文或法文姓名、或是名门望族姓氏的门牌，是声望的象征；而现在，住宅命名最重要的是要有数码时代的智慧。“数码时代的住宅命名呈现出一个特点，”赫伯特说，“人们关心的是，我能不能给自己的公寓想一个夏威夷主题的名字。如果能，我会把这作为一种社交货币（social currency，是一种网络资产，是大家可以拿来分享、谈论的话题或内容——译注）。”
As Ms. Lord, the band promoter, said: “It’s all smoke and mirrors. That’s what I love about it.”
正如乐队推广人洛德所说的：“住宅命名都是云山雾罩的。这一点，正是我喜欢的。”  
The Ballard Homestead in Seattle had an online presence long before it had a physical one. Daniel Volland, 29, found all of his roommates through Instagram; they are what he calls “mobile photographers.” The name they chose for their home, Mr. Volland explained, “speaks to our shared aesthetic and our photography, which is about exploring the Northwest. It’s about a pioneering spirit.”
西雅图的“巴拉德家园”(Ballard Homestead)在网上存在了很久之后，才开始在现实世界中出现。29岁的丹尼尔·沃兰(Daniel Volland)从Instagram上找来了他所有的室友；他把他们称为“移动摄影师”。沃兰解释道，他们之所以给自己的家园选择这个名称，是因为它“反映了我们共同的美学和摄影理念，那就是探索西北部，发扬先锋精神。”
All four roommates (and a number of their guests) post photos and check in to the geotagged location; the house also has its own Instagram feed. Given that each of the residents has 12,000 to 60,000 followers, Mr. Volland said, it initially “made us nervous to have a hashtag or geotag to our house.” But since they moved in about a year ago, there has been only one person who seems to have figured out where they live from the mapping software: a fan who stopped by to give them an air plant.
所有四位室友（以及他们的一些访客）都会在这个已经做了位置标注的地点，发布照片和签到；这套房子还有它自己的Instagram feed。由于其中每个住户都有1.2万到6万个粉丝，沃兰说，这一开始“让我们有点紧张，不敢给自己家贴主题标签或者位置标签”。但是自从他们在大约一年前搬进来以后，似乎只有一个人通过地图软件找到了他们的住处：有位粉丝曾从这里路过，给了他们一棵气生植物。
Mr. Volland seemed surprised by the question of whether there is a physical counterpart to the home’s digital name sign.
当被问及是否会考虑在门口挂一块实体门牌时，沃兰似乎有些惊异。
“No physical placard,” he said, a situation that seems fairly standard.
“不要实体门牌，”他说，看来这样的情况是很正常的。
Yellow House, another group home in Seattle with a sizable social-media presence, doesn’t have a physical sign either. But Isabel Arcelia Trujillo, 23, one of the residents, liked the idea. “I should get us one before our lease is up,” she said.
而“黄色小屋”(Yellow House)是西雅图的又一栋群租房，它在社交媒体上的影响也很大，而且也没有实体标记。不过其中的住户之一、23岁的伊莎贝尔·阿尔切利亚·特鲁希略(Isabel Arcelia Trujillo)觉得做实体标记是个不错的主意。“我应该在我们的租约到期前弄一个。”她说。