Natalie Chan collected bets, dealt cards and calculated payoffs. She was not a croupier working in a casino — in fact, at 20, she was not even old enough to be on the gambling floor at the glitzy casinos just a short walk from campus.
纳塔莉·陈(Natalie Chan)收注、发牌，还计算输赢，但她并不是赌场里的庄家。事实上，20岁的她要进入离学校不远的那些五光十色的赌场赌博，甚至还不够年龄。
But she is learning the tricks of the trade through a program meant to train Macau residents to run the hotels and casinos that have made this city Asia’s answer to Las Vegas.
但她却正通过一项课程来学习这个行业的技巧。在这个被认为是亚洲的拉斯维加斯的城市，这项课程的目的是为了培训澳门居民如何经营酒店和赌场。
“It wasn’t as easy as I expected it to be,” said Ms. Chan, who learned how to play blackjack and baccarat. “At the end of the training, we had an assessment and I had to perform several calculations while dealing the cards. It was challenging.”
“这没我想象的那么容易，”陈说。她已学会了如何玩二十一点和百家乐。“在课程的最后，我们必须进行一次评估，我必须一边发牌一边进行多项计算。这非常不容易。”
Ms. Chan is a third-year student at the University of Macau’s Hospitality and Gaming Management program, which grooms students for managerial and executive positions in the booming gambling and hospitality industry. Casino floor training is just one part of the course.
陈是澳门大学(University of Macau)餐旅服务与博彩管理(Hospitality and Gaming Management)专业的三年级学生，这一课程为澳门迅速发展的博彩与餐旅服务业培养管理和行政人才。而赌场业务培训只是其中的一部分。
“Besides learning about the games, the training allowed me to experience what the dealers go through, the stressful environment that they have to work in, as well as what makes them tired,” Ms. Chan explained. “It gave me an idea of the things I need to be aware of when managing dealers in future.”
“除了学习各种赌博游戏，培训还会让我体验一个庄家的心理、他们不得不身处的紧张工作环境，以及什么会让他们疲倦，”陈解释说。“它让我对未来在管理庄家时所应注意的问题有所了解。”
Macau opened its doors to major U.S. investors like Sands and Wynn Resorts when it liberalized its casino industry in 2002. It now has at least 35 casinos employing more than 81,000 staff. Its gambling revenue, which outpaces that of the Las Vegas Strip, is aided by the fact that casino gambling is illegal in mainland China, which sends more than 20 million visitors to the city each year.
2002年，澳门开放了它的博彩业，于是像金沙(Sands)和永利渡假村(Wynn Resorts)这样的大型美国投资者纷纷进入。如今，澳门至少有35家赌场，雇佣了超过8.1万名员工。它的博彩业收入已超过了拉斯维加斯大道，如此红火也因为，博彩业在中国大陆属非法。每年，有超过2000万来自大陆的游客造访澳门。
But the sudden boom, combined with a lack of good local training, meant that many top-level positions were filled by expatriates from the West or other Asian cities like Hong Kong.
但是突然出现的繁荣以及当地缺乏优秀培训项目的现状，都意味着许多高层职位会由来自西方或香港等其他亚洲城市的外来者担任。
Amy So, coordinator for the Hospitality and Gaming Management program, said there were almost no education options in the field when the program opened in 2003.
餐旅服务与博彩管理课程的协调人埃米·苏(Amy So)表示，当他们在2003年启动这一课程的时候，在这个领域的教育上，几乎没有什么其他的选择。
“Before we started this program, Macau wanted to develop the hospitality and gaming industry, but at that time there were not a lot of people working in this profession and there were no such degrees offered,” she said.
“在我们启动这项课程之前，澳门就想发展餐旅服务与博彩行业，但在那时，还没有多少人从事这一行业，也没有相关的学位，”她说。
Admission is competitive, with only 72 spots for 360 applicants last year, though Dr. So said the program might be expanded in the future.
去年，360位申请人抢夺72个名额，入学的竞争非常激烈，但苏博士说，这个项目未来可能会扩招。
In recent years, it has evolved to cater to the emergence of huge family-friendly entertainment complexes, as opposed to the narrowly gambling-focused casinos that existed a decade ago. “I think the trend of this industry is moving toward developing integrated resorts where all the departments — including hotel, gaming, retail, conventions and exhibitions — work together,” Dr. So said.
最近几年，澳门博彩业已开始转变，开始设立新的、受家庭欢迎的超大型娱乐设施，不同于十年前只是专注于赌博的赌场。“我想，这个行业的趋势是开发综合性的度假村，在那里，包括酒店、博彩、零售、会展在内的各方面会融合在一起，”苏博士说。
The university’s courses also cover business, marketing, technology, events management, and food and beverage operations. Students have the choice of specializing in one of two streams: gambling management or convention and hospitality management.
这所大学的课程还覆盖了商务、市场营销、科技、活动管理，和餐饮经营。学生们可以从博彩管理和会务餐旅服务管理两大项上，选择一个专攻的方向。
Third-year students can join a two-week field trip to Las Vegas and Hawaii. They take morning courses at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, which offers degrees in hospitality management and hotel administration, and spend afternoons at casinos and hotels.
三年级的学生可以参加一个为期两周的实地考察项目，造访拉斯维加斯和夏威夷。上午，他们会在内华达大学拉斯维加斯分校(University of Nevada, Las Vegas)上课，下午会去赌场和酒店。内华达大学拉斯维加斯分校提供餐旅服务和酒店管理的学位。
Kitty Kuong, 23, went on the trip last year. She said that Macau had room for improvement in comparison with the United States, where travel agents, hotels and the government work together. She will be among the first batch of students to graduate from the University of Macau’s convention and hospitality management stream this year.
23岁的姬蒂·龚(Kitty Kuong)去年参加了这个项目。她说，比起美国，澳门还有很大改进的空间。在美国，旅行社、酒店和政府会进行合作。今年，她会成为第一批毕业于澳门大学会务和餐旅服务管理专业的学生。
“I can learn both the gaming aspects and also the hospitality aspects of the integrated resorts,” she said. “Also, some of the lecturers are from the industry. It is a good way for us to be in touch.”
“我既可以学习综合度假村的博彩业务，也可以学习它的餐旅服务业务，”她说。“同时，一些讲师也来自这个行业。这对我们了解这个行业是个很好的方式。”