JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, the son of a historian, often complains to his inner circle that “people have a historical memory that goes back to breakfast.”
耶路撒冷——身为历史学家之子的以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)，常常对亲信们抱怨，“人们对历史的记忆，最多只能追溯到早餐。”
But when Mr. Netanyahu has recently tried to focus the world on the Iranian nuclear program, using ancient texts, Holocaust history and a 2011 book by Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, he has sometimes come off sounding shrill. As six major world powers convene next week to negotiate on the nuclear issue with Iran’s new leadership, the Israeli leader risks seeming frozen in the past amid a shifting geopolitical landscape.
尽管如此，当内塔尼亚胡最近引经据典地用古代文献、犹太人大屠杀历史和伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)在2011年出版的著作，来设法吸引全世界对伊朗核计划的关注时，他的语气有时候显得有些过于激昂。全球6个主要的大国将于下周共聚一堂，与伊朗新领导层协商核问题，在地缘政治版图变幻之际，以色列领导人的举动，恐怕像是沉湎于历史难以自拔。
Increasingly alone abroad and at home, where he has lost several trusted aides and cabinet colleagues, Mr. Netanyahu has stubbornly argued that if people would just study the facts, they would surely side with him.
在国内，内塔尼亚胡已经失去了几名颇受信任的副手和内阁同僚。在国内和国际舞台，他正变得越来越形单影只。他曾固执地辩解说，人们只要研究一下事实，就一定会站在他这边。
“You use history to understand the present and chart the future — history is a map,” Mr. Netanyahu explained in an interview on Thursday night. “You know what a map is? A map is a crystallization of the main things you need to know to get from one place to another.”
在周四晚间的一则采访中，内塔尼亚胡解释说，“你得运用历史来理解当下、勾画未来，历史就是一幅地图。地图是什么？地图是你从一个地方去往另一个地方，需要知晓的重要指引的汇总。”
With a series of major speeches — three more are scheduled next week — and an energetic media blitz, Mr. Netanyahu, 63, has embarked on the public-diplomacy campaign of his career, trying to prevent what he worries will be “a bad deal” with Iran. Insisting on a complete halt to uranium enrichment and no easing of the economic sanctions he helped galvanize the world to impose on Iran, Mr. Netanyahu appears out of step with a growing Western consensus toward reaching a diplomatic deal that would require compromise.
通过举行一系列重要演讲，以及媒体上力度极大的密集报道，63岁的内塔尼亚胡开始了他职业生涯中最大的公共外交行动，目的是为了防止与伊朗达成他所担忧的“糟糕协议”。按照计划，他下周还会再举行三场演讲。西方国家的共识正在增强，即要达成一项需要做出妥协的外交协议。在这一点上，内塔尼亚胡似乎和西方不合拍，他坚持伊朗必须彻底停止铀浓缩活动，坚决主张国际社会在他的推动下对伊朗采取的经济制裁不应放松。
But such isolation is hardly new to a man with few personal friends and little faith in allies, who shuns guests for Sabbath meals, who never misses a chance to declare Israel’s intention to defend itself, by itself.
不过，对于一个私人朋友屈指可数、对盟友几乎毫无信任的人而言，遭到这种孤立不算是什么新鲜事。安息日的聚餐他会避开朋友，而且他从不放过任何一个机会，宣扬哪怕只凭一国之力，以色列也要保卫国土。
“Netanyahu is most comfortable predicting disaster, scaring people into doing something,” said Mitchell Barak, a Jerusalem political consultant who worked for him in the early 1990s and has watched him closely since. “The problem is now he’s lost momentum. His message is clear, his message is the same, the situation is the same, but everyone else’s perspective has changed. It’s like you’re the only one in a dark room with a flashlight.”
耶路撒冷的政治顾问米切尔·巴拉克(Mitchell Barak)说，“内塔尼亚胡最愿意做的事情是预言灾难，通过吓唬让别人去做某件事。问题是，现在他已经失去了声势。他的讯息是清晰的，一直没有变，局势也一直没有变，可是其他所有人的观点都变了。仿佛在一间黑屋子里，他是唯一拿着手电筒的人。”巴拉克曾在90年代初为内塔尼亚胡工作，自那以后，他就一直在密切关注内塔尼亚胡。
Since the start of his third term as prime minister this spring, Mr. Netanyahu has been careful not to confront the White House, despite clear differences on Iran, as well as Syria, Egypt and the Palestinian peace process. It is a sharp contrast to when he lectured President Obama two years ago in front of reporters in the Oval Office. The two leaders have developed a détente, and they spent three hours — one more than scheduled — together on the eve of the American government shutdown in what aides from both camps described as a friendly and frank exchange. Amid the chaos roiling the Middle East, American and Israeli officials say the alliance is in many ways closer than ever.
今年春天，内塔尼亚胡开始了第三个总理任期。从那时开始，他一直小心翼翼地避免和白宫对抗，尽管双方在伊朗问题，以及叙利亚、埃及和巴勒斯坦和平进程问题上都存在清晰的分歧。这和两年前，他在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)面对记者，向奥巴马总统发表演说时的情形，形成了鲜明的对比。两位领导人的关系已经趋缓，在美国政府停摆的前夜，他们花了三个小时会面，比预定时间还长出一小时。据来自双方的幕僚形容，这是一次友好而坦诚的交流。在中东局势一片混乱的背景下，美国和以色列官员表示，在许多方面，这对盟友的关系，比以往任何时候都更为亲近。
“There’s a deep mutual understanding that we are what there is, there aren’t any other relationships like this, they’re all strained,” said one Israeli official who sat in on the session. “That doesn’t mean it’s going to be Bill and Yitzhak,” he added, referring to President Bill Clinton and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, who was assassinated in 1995. “It doesn’t have to be Bill and Yitzhak. They get one another.”
一名与会的以色列官员说，“双方都深深理解两国关系的现状。没有其他任何领导人之间的关系是这样的，他们都相当紧张。我这么说并不意味着，他们会成为比尔和伊扎克。”他指的是美国前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)和以色列前总理伊扎克·拉宾(Yitzhak Rabin)，后者于1995年遇刺身亡。“不一定非要像比尔和伊扎克那样。奥巴马和内塔尼亚胡是了解彼此的。”
Several people who have met with Mr. Netanyahu in recent days described him as determined and focused, the atmosphere in his office one of urgency, not panic. Since his address to the United Nations, he has hardly stopped selling his message: nine broadcast interviews in New York last week instead of the usual two or three (including radio, a first abroad since 2009, added at his request), and on Thursday, a television trifecta and rare trio of newspaper audiences targeting Britain, Germany and France.
近日来与内塔尼亚胡见过面的几个人都说他既坚定又专注，而他办公室里的氛围虽然紧张，但并不慌乱。自从在联合国发言之后，他并没有停止兜售自己的讯息：上周，他在纽约接受了9次广播电视采访，而不是一般情况下的两三次（他还接受了电台采访，这是他2009年来第一次在国外这样做，也是应他的要求增加的）；周四，他连续参加了三个电视节目，而且极少见地一连接受了三家报纸的采访，这三家报纸分别面向英国、德国和法国发行。
Israeli political analysts say Mr. Netanyahu, who was educated at Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is action-averse but diplomatically deft, in his element behind a lectern or in front of a camera. His United Nations speech went through 50 drafts, and 45 minutes before go-time he replaced three pages near the top with a single punchy paragraph ending: “Hope charts the future. Vigilance protects it.”
内塔尼亚胡曾就读于哈佛大学(Harvard)和麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)，以色列政治分析人士称他不愿意行动，但在外交方面却很娴熟，他站在讲台上或镜头前时总是轻松自如。他的联合国演讲总共改了50稿；在演讲开始45分钟前，他还用一个措辞有力段落替换了靠近开头的三页内容，这段话的结尾是：“希望能描绘未来。警觉会保护未来。”
Behind his desk in his office here, above a shelf filled with the encyclopedia his father edited, sit two framed photographs of men Mr. Netanyahu admires for having been able to see “danger in time” and find ways to avert it: Winston Churchill, complete with hat, pinstripes and cigar, and a long-bearded Theodor Herzl, the founder of modern Zionism.
他在耶路撒冷的办公室里，办公桌后面的书架上摆满了他父亲编撰的百科全书。书架上放着两个相框，相框里的人都因为能“及时预见危险”并能找到规避危险的方式而备受内塔尼亚胡尊崇。其中一个是带着帽子、身着细条纹衣服、拿着雪茄的温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)，另一个则是现代犹太复国主义的缔造者、蓄着长须的西奥多·赫茨尔(Theodor Herzl)。
“They were alone a lot more than I am,” Mr. Netanyahu said.
内塔尼亚胡说，“他们孤身一人的时候比我多得多。”
Over the past year, Mr. Netanyahu and his wife, Sara — a psychologist whom many Israelis criticize for everything from her purported temper to her child-rearing methods — have withstood mini-scandals regarding their spending on vanilla and pistachio ice cream (about $2,800 a year), makeup and hairstyling ($18,000 in 2012) and the installation of a bed for a flight to Margaret Thatcher’s funeral ($140,000). The prime minister’s stance on Iran, his signature issue, though, is popular with the public.
过去一年中，内塔尼亚胡和他的妻子莎拉(Sara)——一名心理学者，很多以色列人都对她事事不满，从她传说中的坏脾气到她抚养子女的方式——成功抵挡了一些关于开支的小丑闻，其中包括在香草和开心果冰激凌上的花销（大约每年2800美元，约合1.7万元人民币）、化妆品和发型方面的支出（2012年为1.8万美元），以及为了参加玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)的葬礼在飞机上安装床的费用（14万美元）。然而，内塔尼亚胡在伊朗问题上的立场，这是他的标志性议题，仍然很受公众欢迎。
“Even though most Israelis dislike him, they see him as the best advocate — he knows how to deliver the goods when we are talking about talking,” said Ben Caspit, an Israeli columnist and an author of a biography of Mr. Netanyahu. “He’s a professional whistle-blower. He’s a professional prophet. But all the time pessimistic, threatening.”
“虽然大多数以色列人都不喜欢他，但民众还是把他当做最好的维护者——他知道如何在我们滔滔不绝的时候真正地做事，”以色列专栏作家、内塔尼亚胡的传记作者本·卡斯皮特(Ben Caspit)说。“他是一个专业的警告者，一个专业先知。但他总是很悲观，一直在恐吓人们。”
If he seems a solo act on the world stage, Mr. Netanyahu is also increasingly a one-man show in Israel, doubling as his own foreign minister. Gone from his cabinet are several colleagues with security credentials whom he considered peers. His closest adviser, Ron Dermer, has left Israel to become its ambassador in Washington; he has lost his longtime cabinet secretary; and the veteran national security adviser departs soon.
如果说内塔尼亚胡似乎是在世界舞台上唱独角戏，那么他在以色列似乎也是愈加如此，他同时还要充当自己的外交部长。已经有数位在安全领域有资历的同僚离开了他的内阁。他最亲密的顾问罗恩·德尔梅(Ron Dermer)已经离开以色列前往华盛顿担任驻美大使，他还失去了自己长期的内阁秘书，而且经验丰富的国家安全顾问也即将离任。
But while Mr. Netanyahu faces increasing opposition within his own Likud Party, there are no real rivals for the top job, and the raging internal debate over an Israeli military strike on Iran has all but disappeared.
虽然内塔尼亚胡在自己的党派利库德集团(Likud Party)内面临着越来越多的反对，但是并没有谁能与他争夺领导职务，党内关于以色列是否要对伊朗发动军事打击的激烈争论也已几乎停止。
His office wall is dominated by a map, Iran looming large at the center. Iran has been Mr. Netanyahu’s priority — many say obsession — since 1996, when he warned of the nuclear threat in a speech to Congress shortly after becoming prime minister for the first time. During the next three years he revamped Israel’s intelligence agenda to focus on Tehran. As leader of Israel’s opposition from 2006 to 2009, he made it a personal mission to persuade American state pension funds to divest of Iranian holdings. And since returning to Israel’s premiership in 2009, he has led the charge for sanctions against Iran, in part by threatening a unilateral military strike.
他办公室墙壁上的一张地图十分醒目，位于中心的伊朗颇为突出。从1996年开始，伊朗就成了内塔尼亚胡的首要议题，很多人都说他对伊朗有些偏执。当时他在对美国国会的讲话中提到了核威胁，那是他第一次就任总理后不久。在接下来的3年中，他把以色列情报工作的关注点转移到了德黑兰。作为2006年至2009年以色列的反对派领袖，他以个人使命的态度，努力说服美国的养老基金处理掉手中持有的伊朗资产。自2009年重新担任以色列总理后，他就开始呼吁对伊朗实施制裁，部分手段是威胁对伊朗发动单方面军事打击。
Critics and admirers alike say it is a Messianic crusade. Mr. Netanyahu is not religious, but he does see himself as a leader of destiny.
批评者和赞赏者都说这是一个救世主似的使命。内塔尼亚胡的宗教意识并不强，但他的确把自己视作命运安排的领袖。
“We’re here for a purpose — I’m here for a purpose,” he said Thursday night. “Which is to defend the future of the Jewish people, which means to defend the Jewish state. Defending it from a nuclear Iran.
“我们在这里是为了一个目的——我在这里是为了一个目的，”他在周四晚间说。“那就是，要保卫犹太人的未来，也即保卫这个犹太国。保卫它免受伊朗的核打击。”
“I’m not going to let that happen,” he added. “It’s not going to happen.”
“我不会让这种事情发生，”他还说，“这种事情绝不会发生。”