DENVER — Donald J. Trump’s harsh campaign rhetoric against Mexican immigrants has helped him win a substantial delegate lead in the Republican primary, but it is also mobilizing a different set of likely voters — six of them alone in the family of Hortensia Villegas.
丹佛——唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在竞选演说中对墨西哥移民的刺耳言论，帮助他在共和党初选中赢得了大幅度的代表领先优势，但同时也调动了另一群可能前往投票的人——仅在霍滕西亚·维勒加斯(Hortensia Villegas)的家中，就有六个这样的人。
A legal immigrant from Mexico, Ms. Villegas is a mother of two who has been living in the United States for nearly a decade but never felt compelled to become a citizen. But as Mr. Trump has surged toward the Republican nomination, Ms. Villegas — along with her sister, her parents and her husband’s parents — has joined a rush by many Latino immigrants to naturalize in time to vote in November.
来自墨西哥的合法移民维勒加斯是两个孩子的母亲，在美国生活了将近十年，一直没有觉得有必要成为美国公民。但在特朗普成为共和党提名人的可能性激增之际，维勒加斯——和她的妹妹、父母以及丈夫的父母一起——像很多拉丁裔移民一样，争相归化入籍，以便能参加11月的投票。
“I want to vote so Donald Trump won’t win,” said Ms. Villegas, 32, one of several hundred legal residents, mostly Mexicans, who crowded one recent Saturday into a Denver union hall. Volunteers helped them fill out applications for citizenship, which this year are taking about five months for federal officials to approve. “He doesn’t like us,” she said.
“我要投票，防止特朗普获胜。”32岁的维勒加斯说。近日的一个周六，她和其他数百名以墨西哥人为主的合法居民参加了丹佛的一个聚会。志愿者帮助他们填写入籍申请。今年的入籍申请获得联邦官员批准需要五个月的时间。“特朗普不喜欢我们，”她说。
Over all, naturalization applications increased by 11 percent in the 2015 fiscal year over the year before, and jumped 14 percent during the six months ending in January, according to federal figures. The pace is picking up by the week, advocates say, and they estimate applications could approach 1 million in 2016, about 200,000 more than the average in recent years.
联邦数据显示，总的来说，2015财年的入籍申请数量同比增加11%，在截至1月的六个月期间增幅达到14%。倡导人士表示，到本周，这种步伐在不断加快，他们估计2016年将有100万人申请入籍，比近些年来的平均数量多20万人。
While naturalizations generally rise during presidential election years, Mr. Trump provided an extra boost this year. He kicked off his campaign in June describing Mexicans as drug-traffickers and rapists. His pledge to build a border wall and make Mexico pay for it has been a regular applause line. He has vowed to create a deportation force to expel the estimated 11 million immigrants here illegally, evoking mass roundups of the 1950s.
入籍人数在总统大选年间通常会有所增加，但特朗普今年提供了一种额外的动力。6月开启竞选活动时，特朗普称墨西哥人是毒贩和强奸犯。他承诺建造边境墙，并让墨西哥为之付钱，这种言论经常为他赢得掌声。他曾发誓成立一个驱逐部门，负责驱逐大约1100万非法移民，令人想起20世纪50年代大规模围捕非法移民的行动。
Among 8.8 million legal residents eligible to naturalize, about 2.7 million are Mexicans, the largest national group, federal figures show. But after decades of low naturalization rates, only 36 percent of eligible Mexicans have become citizens, while 68 percent of all other immigrants have done so, according to the Pew Research Center.
联邦数据显示，在880万有资格加入美国国籍的合法居民中，墨西哥人是最大的国族群体，达到270万人。但皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的数据显示，数十年来墨西哥人入籍率较低，只有36%有资格入籍的墨西哥人成为美国公民，而在其他移民中，68%的人已经入籍。
“A lot of people are opening their eyes because of all the negative stuff Donald Trump has brought,” said Ms. Villegas’s husband, Miguel Garfío, 30, who was born and raised in Colorado and came to the workshop here to help his wife and other family members become citizens this year. His parents came from Mexico in the 1980s and worked hard all their lives, he said, helping him create a construction company in Denver that now employs 18 people. Contrary to Mr. Trump’s depiction, he said, none of his relatives have criminal records.
“唐纳德·特朗普带来的负面的东西让很多人觉悟，”维勒加斯的丈夫米格尔·加尔斐(Miguel Garfío)说。30岁的加尔斐在科罗拉多州出生长大，他来到这里的工作坊，帮助妻子及其他家人在今年加入美国籍。他表示，他的父母在20世纪80年代从墨西哥来到美国，一生努力工作，帮助他在丹佛创立了一家建筑公司，该公司目前有18名员工。他表示，与特朗普的描述不同，他的亲属都没有犯罪记录。