Since 2011, when “The Oprah Winfrey Show” ended its stunning run, daytime TV has been on a desperate search for a new supreme ruler, a star capable of delivering more than enormous ratings (Dr. Phil can do that) and acting as more than a moral compass (bless you, Judge Judy). The job requires a person who can do those things while also serving as an arbiter of American pop culture.
2011年，精彩的“奥普拉·温弗瑞秀”(The Oprah Winfrey Show)停播，自那以后，日间电视节目一直都在绝望地寻觅新的超级统治者，一个不仅能带来大量收视率（这一点菲尔医生[Dr. Phil]就能做到），也能超越道德准则（祝福你，朱迪法官[Judge Judy]）的角色。这份工作所需要的人不仅能具备这两个因素，还要充当美国流行文化仲裁人的角色。
Queen Latifah sure doesn’t seem to have it. “Bethenny” has also been a dud. Katie Couric’s heavily promoted attempt at assuming Ms. Winfrey’s throne ended last month with the cancellation of her “Katie.” Poof. Another aspirant shuffles toward the exit, joining Anderson Cooper, Kris Kardashian and Jeff Probst, to name just a few.
奎因·拉蒂法(Queen Latifa)显然不能胜任。“贝辛妮”(“Bethenny”)也干不了。凯蒂·库里克(Katie Couric)得到力捧，试图登上温弗瑞的宝座，结果上个月她的个人秀节目“凯蒂”也被取消。完蛋了。又一个雄心勃勃却落得黯然离去的人，和安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)、克里斯·卡达西安(Kris Kardashian)和杰夫·普罗布斯特(Jeff Probst)一样，他们远不是全部。
Maybe the New Oprah has been here all along. She’s a quirky lesbian with a soft spot for animals and a brand of observational humor that turned out to be tailor-made for social media. She’s a CoverGirl spokesmodel — at 55 years old. She’s most definitely a “Yep, I’m Gay” pioneer, as her Time magazine cover declared way back in 1997. On March 2, she will become a two-time host of the Academy Awards.
不过，或许新的温弗瑞早已经在这儿了。她是个诡异的女同性恋，对动物充满柔情，有着招牌式的、富于观察力的幽默感，简直就像是为社交媒体量身定做的。她以55岁的年龄成为化妆品牌“封面女郎”(CoverGirl)的代言人。她是坦然承认“对，我就是同性恋”的先驱——这正是1997年她在《时代》杂志封面文章的题目。3月2日，她将第二次主持奥斯卡颁奖礼。
For Ellen DeGeneres, crowning herself the next daytime queen would no doubt be awkward: Ms. Winfrey is a neighbor and an occasional texting buddy. Ms. DeGeneres, who is more serious in person that you might expect, frowned when I tiptoed toward the topic. “Oprah is very business minded,” she said. “I’m just not that way. I’m happy my show is successful. But I am also just content just to be me.”
对于艾伦·德杰尼勒斯(Ellen DeGeneres)来说，自诩为下一个日间节目女王肯定是很尴尬的：温弗瑞是她的邻居，两人不时也会发发短信。德杰尼勒斯在生活中其实比你想像得要严肃，当我小心翼翼地向她提出这个问题时，她蹙起了眉头。“奥普拉很有商业头脑，”她说，“我可不是那样。我的节目成功我很高兴。但我也很满足于做我自己。”
Later, she added, “All of us, whether we are in this business or not, have little voices that tell us we’re not good enough, and we don’t deserve it.”
后来她又补充说：“我们所有人，不管在不在这个行业，内心深处都会有一堆小声音在说：我们还不够好，我们配不上所得到的一切。”
“The Ellen DeGeneres Show,” now dancing through its 11th season and renewed on NBC stations through 2017, is surging in the Nielsens. Last month, about 4.4 million viewers tuned in each day — a show record. In the fall, she was up about 13 percent compared with the same period last year.
“艾伦·德杰尼勒斯秀”(The Ellen DeGeneres Show)已经走过了11季，被NBC台续订到2017年，如今它正在冲击尼尔森收视排行榜。上个月，每天都有约440万观众收看这个节目，这创下了纪录。去年秋天，她的节目收视率比前年同期上升了大约13%。
Ms. DeGeneres’s detractors (yes, she has them) will quickly snipe that she does not have “Oprah”-level ratings. That is true. Ms. Winfrey was delivering an audience of roughly six million when she rode off into cable semi-obscurity, down from a peak of about 13 million in the early 1990s. But a simple ratings analysis may be missing the point. Measurements of influence have changed. Now, power must also be evaluated with social media and online video in mind. And by that standard, Ms. DeGeneres has few, if any, equals.
德杰尼勒斯的诋毁者们（是的，她也有诋毁者）会马上批评她没有达到奥普拉级别的收视率。确实如此。温弗瑞的观众在20世纪90年代初达到1300万的高峰，后来转投有线台收视下降，观众还有约600万。但简单的收视率解析可能会漏掉重要的问题。影响力的评估标准已经变了。如今，社交媒体与在线视频的影响力也必须被考虑进去。以这个标准而言，德杰尼勒斯的影响力少有人能比肩。
With 24.4 million followers, she is one of the top television personalities on Twitter, where she identifies herself as “comedian, talk show host and ice road trucker.” She also has one of the most-watched celebrity channels on YouTube, where clips from her show have been viewed almost three billion times. On average, one “Ellen” segment a month goes viral. (Iggy the Dog — a media kerfuffle over her giving away an adopted dog — was just the beginning.)
德杰尼勒斯在Twitter上有2440万人关注，是电视界最受关注的人之一。在Twitter上，她的自我介绍是“喜剧演员、脱口秀主持人和雪地卡车司机。”在YouTube的名人频道中，她的视频点击率也是最高的，节目的视频剪辑被观看了将近30亿次。平均下来，每个月都会有一集艾伦秀爆红（“小狗伊基”事件——关于她送养的一只小狗引发的媒体讨论——还只是个开始）。
No daytime talk show has more pull among sponsors, in part because the median income for the “Ellen” audience is 22 percent higher than the average for daytime, according to Nielsen data. Major advertising partnerships have included Burt’s Bees, Walgreens, Huggies, Target, Band-Aid, Best Buy and Swisse vitamins. CoverGirl saw a 55 percent increase in sales of a new foundation after it was featured in a show segment.
没什么日间节目秀比“艾伦”更能吸引赞助商，或许是因为，根据尼尔森的统计数据，“艾伦”观众的收入中位数比日间节目观众收入中位数的平均值高22%。她的主要广告合作商包括伯特小蜜蜂(Burt’s Bees)、沃尔格林(Walgreens)、好奇(Huggies)、塔吉特(Target)、邦迪(Band-Aid)、百思买(Best Buy)和瑞思(Swisse)维生素。化妆品牌“封面女郎”一款新的粉底液在一个节目环节中出现后，销量增加了55%。
“The Ellen impact has been phenomenal,” said Esi Eggleston Bracey, general manager of CoverGirl Cosmetics. “She’s someone I would call a connector.”
“艾伦的影响力是现象级的，”“封面女郎”的总经理伊赛·艾格斯顿·布拉塞(Esi Eggleston)说，“她是那种我愿意称之为沟通者的人。”
Ms. DeGeneres is now working on her own branded products. “It’s not that much of a stretch for me to do a clothing or a furniture or a home line,” she said. Oh, and she has a parade of new movies and scripted shows in the works. She will voice the befuddled lead in Pixar’s “Finding Dory.” A big-screen comedy co-starring Rebel Wilson has been discussed. Ms. DeGeneres’s production company, which backs “Bethenny,” in recent months has sold other new shows to networks like CW and NBC.
德杰尼勒斯目前在忙着推出以自己的名字命名的商品。“我推出自己的服装、家具或者家居用品，不算太不靠谱，”她说。啊，而且她还有一大堆新电影和有脚本的脱口秀节目等着要做。她将在皮克斯的《海底总动员2》(Finding Dory)中献声，为迷糊的主角配音。此外与瑞贝尔·威尔森(Rebel Wilson)共同参演的一部喜剧电影也在洽谈中。德杰尼勒斯的节目公司也在代理“贝辛尼”，近几个月来向CW和NBC等电视网售出了不少新节目。
All this from a woman who asserts that she is not all that interesting.
这一切都是来自一个坚持说自己其实并不那么有趣的女人。
“I’m really pretty boring,” said Ms. DeGeneres, who married the actress Portia de Rossi in 2008. “It’s actually a problem, because I run out of things to talk about in my monologues. I love my home life. I love Portia. I love my animals. I love time off.”
“我这人真的很闷，”德杰尼勒斯说，2008年，她和女演员波蒂亚·德·罗西(Portia de Rossi)结婚。“这真是个问题，我已经厌倦了长篇大论地谈自己。我爱家庭生活，我爱波蒂亚。我喜欢动物，我喜欢休息。”
With the Oscars only six weeks away, her free time of late has been sparse.
再有六个星期就是奥斯卡了，她的空闲时间也愈来愈少。
“We’ve been writing and writing and writing,” she said, with a smile, of preparations. “It’s like a soup. You put it all in, and you let it sit on the stove until it reduces to a delicious, flavorful broth.”
“我们不停在改脚本，”她微笑着谈起奥斯卡的准备工作。“就像煲汤，你把材料放进去，然后让它在炉子上炖着，直到熬成美味可口的浓汤。”
Walking in a brisk trot to a meeting across the Warner Bros. lot here — late for Ms. DeGeneres is early — she picked up the thought: “When people come to my show, they are already on my side. But hosting the Oscars is like jumping out of a plane. It’s a tough audience. It’s people who are jaded. To try to entertain them and make them laugh and make them relax and make them feel good is a challenge.”
她迈着疾步穿过华纳兄弟公司的片厂去开会时——对于德杰尼勒斯女士来说不迟到就是早到——又谈起了这个想法：“人们来看我的节目时，就已经站在我这边支持我了。但主持奥斯卡有点像从飞机上跳出去。奥斯卡的观众特别难应付，他们是厌倦冷漠的人。要娱乐他们，让他们开怀大笑，放松下来，让他们高兴可真是个挑战。”
This time around, however, she is feeling much more confident.
不过近来她感觉愈来愈自信了。
“I used to care so deeply about what people thought of me,” she said later in her dressing room, a kale salad awaiting her. “I just wanted to be liked. Now, I care that people get me. I want to be understood.”
“我曾经非常在乎别人怎么看我，”后来她在化妆室里说，手边放着一份甘蓝沙拉，“那时候，我希望别人喜欢我。现在，我希望人们能够明白我的意思，我希望被理解。”
Ms. DeGeneres said her agent had to coax her into accepting the gig. “I really thought, ‘Why do I want to add that to my plate?’ I’ve done it before, and it’s scary as hell,” she said. “If you do great, the reaction is that you were good. Not great — good. If you don’t do well, they just tear you apart, and they never let you forget it.”
德杰尼勒斯说，她的经纪人是哄着她接受这个任务的。“我真的感觉，‘我为什么要接受它？’我已经主持过奥斯卡了，简直像地狱一样可怕，”她说，“如果你干得非常好，人们的反应就是你干得还好——不是非常好，而是‘还好’。如果你干得还算好，他们就会把你撕成两半，还让你永远也忘不了。”
If Ms. DeGeneres feels pressure to steady the Oscars following a year when the program’s host, Seth MacFarlane, was harshly criticized for what some viewers saw as offensive humor, she would not acknowledge it. “None,” she said, a chilly wind suddenly blowing from her direction. “A lot of people liked him.”
去年，有人认为奥斯卡的主持人赛斯·麦克法兰(Seth MacFarlane)开了冒犯的玩笑，麦克法兰也因此遭受严厉批评，这会不会给德杰尼勒斯带来压力呢？她并没有承认。“不，”她说，话中突然带上一丝寒意，“有很多人喜欢他。”
“I do think it should be classy,” she continued after an uncomfortable silence. “It’s the Academy Awards. It’s prestigious. It should be sophisticated. It has lately turned into something that’s a little more about the clothes than the performances, and I will comment on that.”
“我不觉得颁奖礼应该是高档气派的，”一阵颇令人不舒服的沉默之后，她继续说，“那是奥斯卡颁奖礼，它受人尊敬，应当是不落陈套的。后来才变成现在这样，服装比表演重要，我会就这个问题发表看法的。”
In person, Ms. DeGeneres speaks with the same off-kilter cadence as she does onstage and displays the same deadpan humor, albeit without the funny faces that soften it. She was not entirely thrilled to be spending the day with a reporter, noting on more than one occasion that she has felt burned by journalists. But her honesty makes you feel comfortable spilling your guts right back. Before I could help myself, I was showing her iPhone photos of my cat and oversharing about my lucky Ursula the Sea Witch boxer shorts.
私下里，德杰尼勒斯说话的声音和在舞台上一样，带着一种怪有趣的顿挫，还是那种冷幽默的感觉，只不过在私下里她不会做鬼脸，好让她的声音显得缓和一点。和记者在一起呆一整天丝毫未让她兴奋起来，虽然她曾经不止一次被记者惹恼过。但她的诚恳让你觉得舒服，可以向她说心里话。比如我忍不住就把iPhone里存的我家猫的照片给她看了，还跟她很过分地聊了我的厄休拉海女巫幸运短裤的事情。
To understand Ms. DeGeneres and her drive, you have to remember the hole she was in before the debut of her talk show.
想要理解德杰尼勒斯和她的动机，你得记住，在她的脱口秀节目遭到怀疑之前，她曾经经历过什么样的困境。
After she came out of the closet, viewers abandoned her sitcom, and she felt like a pariah. “Gay people thought I wasn’t gay enough,” she said. “Straight people thought I was too gay. I remember thinking, ‘There’s an amount of gay I’m supposed to be?’ Suddenly, everyone was making fun of me, or at least it seemed that way. It was paralyzing. I didn’t work for three years.”
在她出柜之后，观众们纷纷放弃她的情景喜剧节目，她感觉自己就像贱民一样。“同性恋们觉得我不够同性恋，”她说，“异性恋又觉得我太同性恋。我记得自己当时想，‘我应该gay到什么程度才好？’突然之间，所有人都在拿我寻开心，至少看起来是这样。这令人丧失力量。我有三年没有工作。”
With time and a lot of Eckhart Tolle and Deepak Chopra — she now meditates for 20 minutes each morning — Ms. DeGeneres started to develop some new projects, including a talk show. “I had to pick myself up and stop feeling sorry for myself,” she said. “I didn’t have any money coming in.”
随着时间过去，她也学习了不少埃克哈特·托利(Eckhart Tolle)和狄巴克·乔布拉(Deepak Chopra)的灵性课程，如今她每天早上都要冥想20分钟，她渐渐开始从事新项目，包括一个脱口秀。“我得振作起来，停止自怜，”她说，“我那时已经没有收入了。”
“The Ellen DeGeneres Show” was in some ways a response to the scrutiny and judgment that Ms. DeGeneres felt during that time. You can see it in the audience dancing that starts the show. You’re a bad dancer? So what. Nobody here will make fun of you. The show’s celebrate-who-you-are message not only resonated with the daytime audience, it also helped fuel a full-fledged cultural movement, in which bullying is not O.K., “Glee” just wants everyone to be friends, and more states allow same-sex marriage.
“艾伦·德杰尼勒斯秀”在某些程度上是在回应那段时间她所遭到的审视与裁判。你可以从节目开头的观众舞蹈中看出来。你跳得不好？那又怎么样。没有人会笑话你。这个节目传递一种“为自己而喝彩”的信息，它不仅令日间的电视观众产生共鸣，同时也推动了一种羽翼丰满的文化运动，在这种文化里，欺凌别人是不好的。《欢乐合唱团》(Glee)希望所有人都能做朋友，更多州批准了同性婚姻。
Her appeal is also based in contradiction. Older viewers (the median age for “Ellen” is 55) can feel cool or modern for relating to an out lesbian who seems to understand technology. But many of her jokes come in old-fashioned, comfy packages: Heads Up!, a popular “Ellen” segment (and now a hit iTunes app), is essentially charades. With her guests, she offers viewers a peek at an opulent life — mega-mansions, celebrity pals — but still manages a common touch that Ms. Winfrey eventually lost. No, I’m not fancier than you. I’m just a lucky lady bumbling through life.
她的魅力也建立在矛盾的基础上。年长一些的观众（“艾伦秀”的观众年龄中位数是55岁）可以欣赏一个懂技术的出柜女同性恋，好让自己显得很酷，很摩登。但她的很多笑话都是老式的、轻松的：当心！一段很流行的“艾伦秀”片段里（现在在iTunes里是一个热门应用），她玩起了哑剧字谜游戏。她和嘉宾在一起，让观众们偷窥一个富人的生活——豪宅和名流——但她仍然保持了温弗瑞后来所丧失的平常心。不，我并不比你们更优秀，我只是一个幸运的女人，跌跌撞撞地度过了人生。
“She has a skill that very, very few entertainers have, which is to make you believe that you actually know her, and that she could be your best friend,” said Martin Kaplan, the director of the Norman Lear Center for the study of entertainment and society at the University of Southern California.
“她有一种在其他娱乐人士身上少见的才能，可以让你相信你真的了解她，让你觉得她是你最好的朋友，”南加利福尼亚大学研究娱乐与社会的诺曼·里尔中心的主任马丁·卡普兰(Martin Kaplan)说。
“She even has a sense of irony about her niceness,” Mr. Kaplan added, noting a “nice-off” Ms. DeGeneres had with Jimmy Kimmel. (Guess who won.)
“她甚至对自己的热情好心也要自嘲，”卡普兰说，他是在说德杰尼勒斯与吉米·坎摩尔(Jimmy Kimmel)“比好心”的节目（猜猜谁赢了）。
One factor in Ms. DeGeneres’s appeal tends to be overlooked: “Ellen” is an exceedingly well-produced show. Rubber hits the road at 11 a.m. each day at Warner Bros. with a production meeting in Ms. DeGeneres’s airy, sparely decorated office. (The most striking feature are two tabletop tree branches, each gripped by its own large wasp nest.)
德杰尼勒斯还有一个容易被人忽视的魅力：“艾伦秀”的制作十分精良。节目组每天上午11点在华纳兄弟公司准时开工，应付棘手问题，在德杰尼勒斯宽敞通透，没有多少装饰的办公室里开制片会（她的办公室里最显眼的就是两个案头树枝摆件，上面各自缠着一个大马蜂窝）。
“Everyone is scared to sit too close to me,” she said on one recent morning, as about a dozen young writers filed in and stood mostly at the other end of the room. Ms. DeGeneres was joking, but there was some truth to that tease. A few did seem terrified.
“所有人都害怕坐在我身边，”她说，那是不久前的一个上午，当时有几十个年轻的编剧走进来，站在房间尽头。德杰尼勒斯在开玩笑，但玩笑里也有几分真相。有几个人看上去确实吓坏了。
Still, the overall mood was jovial. A relaxed Ms. DeGeneres, drinking a bottle of Smart Water with one sneaker-clad foot on a coffee table, started by chatting about football and celebrity headlines. “That’s your haircut,” one producer said of Pamela Anderson’s new pixie. “Are you kidding?” Ms. DeGeneres responded. “That’s like saying all white people look alike.”
不过，整体气氛还是欢快的。德杰尼勒斯很放松，喝着Smart Water饮料，脚上穿着帆布鞋，一只脚搁在咖啡桌上，聊着橄榄球和名人新闻。“这和你的发型一样，”一个制作人说起帕米拉·安德森(Pamela Anderson)的新造型。“你开玩笑吗？”德杰尼勒斯答道，“听起来就好像在说白人都长得差不多。”
She was handed an eight-page draft script for the show, starting with her monologue, and the room fell silent as she put on her glasses and started reading. A producer softly chuckled here and there, but she stayed stoic. “I think we have to be more specific about the phone,” she said without looking up.
她手里拿着脱口秀的八页草稿，一开始是她的独白，当她戴上眼镜，开始读稿子，整个屋子一片寂静。一个制作人不时轻轻发出笑声，但她一直肃然不笑。“我觉得电话这部分需要更明确一点，”她头也不抬地说。
“Something other than the current ending,” she said, turning a page. “I think it ends with something like: ‘Don’t think about it. Don’t dwell on it. Just dance.’ ” The producers solemnly took notes, and the meeting moved on to other planned segments, including an appearance by Sting. “Make sure we have enough time for his whole performance,” Ms. DeGeneres said, or otherwise, she added, he would be annoyed.
“现在这个结尾还不够，”她翻了一页，说。“我决定应该这样结束：‘别想了，别琢磨了，跳舞吧。’”制作人严肃地做着笔记，会议转向其他节目片段，包括斯汀(Sting)在节目中亮相。“要保证我们有足够时间，好让他做完整的演出，”德杰尼勒斯说，接着又补充说，否则他会生气的。
From 1:45 to 2:15 p.m., she did a run-through of the planned episode, and more polishing was done. At 2:30 p.m., a different set of producers met in her dressing room and continued to brief Ms. DeGeneres on her guests. “His new CD is about the shipbuilding industry in England,” a producer said of Sting.
从下午1:45到2:15，她把整集过了一遍，比之前更加完善。到2:30，另一群制作人和她在化妆室开会，继续向她汇报嘉宾的事情。“他的新专辑是关于英国造船业的，”一个制作人和她说斯汀的情况。
“It’s about time somebody wrote about that,” Ms. DeGeneres deadpanned.
“是关于一个人书写造船业的时代，”德杰尼勒斯面无表情地说。
And finally there was the finished draft of the monologue. Once more, the room waited in silence while she read it.
最后敲定了节目中独白的终稿。当她开始朗读时，屋子里又是一片寂静。
“I accept it,” she said. “Thank you.”
“我通过了，”她说，“谢谢你们。”