The man complained of memory problems but seemed perfectly normal. No specialist he visited detected any decline.
那个记忆力出了问题的男子看起来无比正常。他看过的专家都没有诊断出任何记忆力减退的现象。
“He insisted that things were changing, but he aced all of our tests,” said Rebecca Amariglio, a neuropsychologist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. But about seven years later, he began showing symptoms of dementia. Dr. Amariglio now believes he had recognized a cognitive change so subtle “he was the only one who could identify it.”
“他坚持认为情况正发生改变，但却以良好的表现通过了我们所有的测试，”波士顿布莱根和妇女医院(Brigham and Women’s Hospital)的神经心理学家丽贝卡·阿马里格利奥(Rebecca Amariglio)说。但是大约七年后，他开始表现出了痴呆的症状。阿马里格利奥博士现在认为，他发现自己的认知能力发生了一个极其细微的变化，“而他是唯一能察觉这种变化的人”。
Patients like this have long been called “the worried well,” said Creighton Phelps, acting chief of the dementias of aging branch of the National Institute on Aging. “People would complain, and we didn’t really think it was very valid to take that into account.”
长期以来，这种病人都被称为“疑病症患者”，美国老龄人口研究所(National Institute on Aging)老年痴呆部门的执行主任克赖顿·费尔普斯(Creighton Phelps)说。“人们自称患病，但过去我们并不认为有充分证据应考虑这些担忧。”
But now, scientists are finding that some people with such complaints may in fact be detecting early harbingers of Alzheimer’s.
然而现在，科学家们正在认识到，事实上，一些有这种担忧的人或许是正在感觉到阿尔茨海默病(Alzheimer’s)的早期症状。
Studies presented Wednesday at an Alzheimer’s Association conference in Boston showed that people with some types of cognitive concerns were more likely to have Alzheimer’s pathology in their brains, and to develop dementia later. Research presented by Dr. Amariglio, for example, found that people with more concerns about memory and organizing ability were more likely to have amyloid, a key Alzheimer’s-related protein, in their brains.
周三，阿尔茨海默病协会(Alzheimer’s Association)在波士顿举行了一次会议，会议上发布的研究结果显示，对自己的认知能力存在某种担心人更有可能会在脑部发现阿尔茨海默病的病变，他们随后罹患痴呆的可能性也更大。例如，阿马里格利奥博士提交的研究结果发现，那些担心自己的记忆和组织能力的人，他们的脑部存在淀粉样物质的可能性更大，这是与阿尔茨海默病有关的一种关键蛋白质。
And, in a significant shift highlighted at the conference, leading Alzheimer’s researchers are identifying a new category called “subjective cognitive decline,” which is people’s own sense that their memory and thinking skills are slipping even before others have noticed.
此外，会议还强调了一个重要的转折。首席阿尔茨海默病研究员正在辨识一种被称作“主观认知退化”的新范畴。“主观认知退化”即患者在别人尚未察觉之前，就感觉到自己的记忆和思考能力出现了退化。
“The whole field now is moving to this area, and saying ‘Hey, maybe there is something to this, and maybe we should pay attention to these people,’ ” said Dr. Ronald C. Petersen, chairman of the advisory panel to the federal government’s new National Alzheimer’s Project.
“目前，整个领域都在向这一块转移，还说‘嘿，或许这会有些价值，或许我们应该关注一下这些人，’”联邦政府新的国家阿尔茨海默病计划(National Alzheimer’s Project)顾问组组长罗纳德·C·彼得森(Ronald C. Petersen)博士说。
Dr. Petersen, director of the Mayo Clinic’s Alzheimer’s center, said preliminary results of a Mayo study of healthy older adults in Minnesota suggested something similar.
彼得森博士是梅奥诊所(Mayo Clinic)阿尔茨海默病中心(Alzheimer’s center)的负责人，他说梅奥诊所对明尼苏达州年龄较大的健康成年人进行了研究，初步结果指向了类似的结论。
“Lo and behold, those who had a concern about their memory in fact had more likelihood” of later developing mild cognitive impairment, an early phase of dementia, he said. He said study participants with memory concerns were 56 percent more likely to be given a diagnosis of such impairment, even when results were adjusted for factors like education, genetic risk and psychiatric issues like anxiety and depression.
他说，“令人惊讶的是，那些担心自己记忆力的人未来事实上更容易”患上轻微的认知损伤，也就是痴呆的早期阶段。他说，即便根据教育、基因风险，以及焦虑和压抑等精神因素进行调整，那些担心记忆力的研究参与者被诊断出患这种认知障碍的概率也要高56%。
“These people are sensing something, and there’s some biological signals that correlate,” Dr. Petersen said. “I think it’s real.”
“这些人察觉到了一些什么，而且还有一些相应的生物信号，”彼得森博士说。“我认为这是真的。”
Experts emphasize that many people with such complaints will not develop dementia. Some memory decline reflects normal aging, they say, and some concerns reflect psychological angst. People who forget what they wanted in the kitchen or the names of relatively unfamiliar people are probably aging normally. People who forget important details of recent events, get lost in familiar places or lose track of book or television plots may not be, especially if they have more problems than others their age.
专家强调，很多有这种担忧的人并不会患上痴呆。他们说，有时候记忆力减退只反映了正常的老化，而有些担忧则是出于心理焦虑。有些人会忘记自己想去厨房拿什么或者不太熟悉的人的姓名，但他们或许只是出现了正常的老化。而忘记近期发生事情的重要细节，或者在熟悉的地方走失，抑或是跟不上书本或电视情节的人则可能并非如此，尤其是当他们所遇到的问题比同龄人更多的时候。
And much remains unknown about subjective concerns. In some studies, like Dr. Amariglio’s, highly educated people noticed changes more readily, but in other studies, less educated people did. Some studies suggest people who worry more about memory deficits have more dementia risk, but it is unclear if the worry reflects the changes they sense or if worrying itself increases risk. People with family histories of dementia could be reporting problems simply because they know about the disease and its genetic component. And, while a study presented Wednesday found slight correlations between subjective concerns and the highest-risk genetic mutation, ApoE4, that relationship remains unclear.
对于主观担忧，还有很多未知的事情。阿马里格利奥博士等人的研究显示，受过高等教育的人会更及时地发现变化，但是其他研究则显示，受教育程度较低的人发现得更加及时。有些研究表明，越担心记忆力缺陷的人得痴呆症的风险就越高，但目前还不清楚，究竟是他们的担心反映了他们所感觉到的变化，还是担忧本身就会增加患病风险。有痴呆症家族病史的人可能会知道自己出了问题，这仅仅是因为他们了解这种疾病及其基因构成。此外，虽然周三发布的研究发现了主观担忧和风险最高的基因变异ApoE4之间存在细微的联系，但这种关系仍不明确。
Experts are not yet suggesting doctors regularly screen people for “subjective cognitive decline” because much more research is needed and no effective dementia treatment now exists.
专家还没有建议医生进行常规性的“主观认知退化”筛查，因为这方面还需要进行更多的研究，对痴呆也不存在有效的治疗手段。
Dr. Richard Caselli, a neurology professor at the Mayo Clinic in Arizona, said that when patients cited cognitive problems, he ruled out “reversible things,” but did not recommend testing for Alzheimer’s because “if we do a scan and say, ‘Hey, we found some amyloid in your brain,’ there’s really nothing you can do.”
亚利桑那州梅奥诊所神经学教授理查德·卡塞利(Richard Caselli)博士说，当病人表示认知出现问题时，他会排除“可逆的东西，”但是不建议进行阿尔茨海默症检查，因为“如果我们做了扫描，然后说‘嗨，我们发现你的大脑里有些淀粉样物质，’其实接下来没什么事可做的。”
But subjective screening has value now for clinical trials, experts say, because it can help pinpoint people at higher risk for dementia to better determine if treatments can delay or prevent Alzheimer’s.
但是专家说，对临床实验来说，主观性筛查现在有一定价值，因为它可以锁定出现痴呆的高危人士，从而更好地判断治疗能否延迟或遏止阿尔茨海默症。
Major studies like the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative are adding subjective memory complaint categories. So will an important trial to see if an anti-amyloid drug can prevent dementia in cognitively normal people with amyloid in their brains.
像阿尔茨海默症神经成像计划(Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative)这样的大型研究正在增加主观记忆担忧的类别。还有一项重要的试验也会这么做，该试验是要检测某抗淀粉样药物能否阻止脑内出现淀粉样但认知正常的人出现痴呆症状。
“People have been interested in this subjective concern for a long time, but we didn’t have a way to say is this normal,” said Dr. Reisa Sperling, who runs Brigham and Women’s Alzheimer’s program and is helping lead the coming anti-amyloid study.
布莱根和妇女医院阿尔茨海默项目负责人蕾莎·斯珀尔林(Reisa Sperling)博士说，“早就已经有人开始注意这种主观担忧了，但是我们无从判断它算不算正常，”她正在参与组织一项即将开始的抗淀粉样研究。
One of Dr. Caselli’s patients, Roger Siegel, 84, has noticed problems for at least five years, and said he now remembers about 30 percent of what he would like to, and has trouble concentrating. “I take a shower and wonder did I wash that leg,” he said. In books, “many times I forget which character is which.”
卡塞利博士的一位病人，84岁的罗杰·西格尔(Roger Siegel)，发现问题至少五年了，他说他现在能记住的事大概只有他想记住的30%，集中注意力也很困难。“我洗完澡会想，这条腿我洗过了吗，”他说。看书的时候，“有好几次我都忘了这些人物谁是谁。”
Recently, he bought six packages of pie filling instead of one “because I asked somebody where would I find it and the answer was Aisle 6, so I wrote down 6, but by the time I got to the aisle, I picked up six of the thing.”
最近他想买一份馅饼的馅料，结果买了六份，“因为我问人馅料在哪，对方说在6号走道，所以我写下一个“6”字，等走到那条走道时，我就拿了六份。”
Neither his wife nor Dr. Caselli perceive these difficulties.
他的妻子和卡塞利博士都没察觉到这些障碍。
“I know I’m losing my mind,” Mr. Siegel said, “but according to Caselli, I’m fine.”
“我知道我正在失去意识，”西格尔说，“但是在卡塞利看来我挺好的。”
Dr. Caselli said Mr. Siegel has “been saying he is declining for years,” and was given a diagnosis at another clinic of mild cognitive impairment three years ago “based on his subjective complaints, when he had no evidence of decline and I told him so.”
卡塞利博士说西格尔“多年来一直在说衰退的问题”，三年前在另一家诊所被诊断为轻微认知损伤，“依据的是他的主观担忧，没有证据表明他出现衰退，我跟他说了。”
But recently fine-grained cognitive measures showed he had “slight decline on his tests, and so may possibly be at a very early stage of a very slowly progressive degenerative syndrome,” Dr. Caselli said.
然而最近的一些细致的认知测量显示，“他的测试表现略有退化，所以可能是处在非常早期阶段的一种发展非常缓慢的退变症候，”卡塞利说。
The working group aims to develop standardized subjective cognitive tests so when treatments become available doctors can eventually use them as a “cheap and noninvasive” way to help identify people at greater risk, said Dr. Petersen. “We can’t do M.R.I.s and scanning on everyone,” he said.
彼得森博士说，研究小组打算开发一种标准化的主观认知检测，一旦有了治疗手段，医生就终于可以用这种“廉价和非侵入性”的手段来识别出风险更高的人。“我们不可能给每个人都做核磁共振和扫描。”