KIEV, Ukraine — The president-elect of Ukraine, Petro O. Poroshenko, vowed on Monday to restore order in the country’s east, which is besieged by pro-Russian separatist violence, but said he would not negotiate with armed rebels and instead would demand swifter results from a military campaign that has achieved only limited success.
乌克兰基辅——周一，乌克兰当选总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)发誓要让受困于亲俄分裂分子的乌克兰东部地区恢复秩序，同时又表示，他不会与武装叛乱分子进行谈判，将会通过军事行动更快地解决问题。此类行动目前仅取得了有限的成功。
While Mr. Poroshenko has said that he would push for parliamentary elections before the end of the year, on Monday he said he saw no reason for the removal of Prime Minister Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk and other leaders of the interim government, which has been running Ukraine since the toppling of President Viktor F. Yanukovych in February.
波罗申科曾表示要争取在今年年底前举行议会选举，但却在周一表示，他认为没有理由免去阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)和临时政府其他领导人的职务。维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)于今年2月被推翻后，乌克兰一直由临时政府掌控。
Mr. Poroshenko also promised to mend ties with the Kremlin, citing his business connections to Russia as well as his personal relationship with President Vladimir V. Putin, who has promised to respect the Ukrainian election results.
波罗申科还承诺修复与克里姆林宫的关系，并且提到了自己与俄罗斯的商业关系，以及他与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的私交。普京已承诺尊重乌克兰的选举结果。
“Most probably the meeting with the Russian leadership will certainly take place in the first half of July,” Mr. Poroshenko said at a Kiev news conference. “We should be very ready tactically in approach to this meeting, because first we should create an agenda, we should prepare documents, so that it will not be just to shake hands.”
“很有可能，与俄罗斯领导人的会谈将在7月上半月举行，”波罗申科在基辅的新闻发布会上表示，“我们应该充分做好与会议相关的策略准备，因为我们首先应该拟定议程，准备文件，如此一来，会面就不会局限于握手寒暄。”
He added: “Because Mr. Putin and I know each other quite well, and I think this will lead to very important results. People in the east are waiting for these results.”
他还表示，“我和普京非常了解彼此，所以我觉得，这会带来非常重要的结果。东部的人民正在等待这样的结果。”
Mr. Poroshenko’s remarks came as rebels seized the airport in Donetsk. While Ukrainian forces appeared to have forcibly evicted the rebels from the airport later in the day, the fight illustrated the formidable obstacles Mr. Poroshenko faces in trying to stop the country from sliding further into civil war.
波罗申科发表上述言论时，叛乱分子夺占了顿涅茨克的机场。当天晚些时候，乌克兰军队似乎已将叛乱分子强行逐出机场，尽管如此，此次冲突仍然说明，波罗申科在设法阻止乌克兰进一步滑向内战方面面临巨大障碍。
Official election returns confirmed Monday that Mr. Poroshenko had won in a landslide over his strongest rival, the former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko. With more than 85 percent of ballots counted, Mr. Poroshenko had 54 percent — well above the simple majority needed to avoid a runoff.
周一，官方的选举结果确认，波罗申科以压倒性优势击败了最强的对手，前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)。超过85%的选票清点结果显示，波罗申科获得了54%的选票，远远高于避免决选所需的简单多数。
Ms. Tymoshenko had 13 percent, a stinging defeat for one of Ukraine’s predominant political figures, who was a nemesis of Mr. Yanukovych. She served more than three years in prison on charges largely viewed in the West as politically motivated and was released hours after Mr. Yanukovych fled Kiev, following his failed but bloody effort to suppress a monthslong uprising.
季莫申科赢得了13%的选票，对于身为乌克兰主要政治人物的她来说，这是一场惨败。季莫申科是亚努科维奇的宿敌，曾在监狱里待了三年多，西方国家普遍认为针对她的指控是出于政治动机。亚努科维奇曾以血腥手段镇压长达数月的反抗活动，并在镇压失败之后逃离基辅，数小时后，季莫申科获释出狱。
“This election proved the democratic spirit of the people of Ukraine, who had the opportunity to genuinely express their will at the ballot box and seized it in high numbers,” said João Soares, the special coordinator of a short-term observer mission from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, a 57-nation group that includes Ukraine and Russia. Other monitoring groups also praised the vote.
“此次选举证明了乌克兰人民的民主精神，他们得到了在投票箱前表达自己真实意愿的机会，并以高投票率把握住了这次机会。”包括乌克兰和俄罗斯在内的57国集团欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)的短期观察任务特别协调员若昂·苏亚雷斯(João Soares)说。其他一些监督团体也赞扬了此次投票。
Some United States officials, in Ukraine to monitor the balloting, called for additional sanctions on Russia in response to the disruptions of voting in the east.
一些在乌克兰监督投票的美国官员呼吁对俄罗斯实施附加制裁，以回应乌东部地区破坏投票的行动。
Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, who along with other Republicans has sharply criticized the Obama administration’s response to Russia’s actions in Ukraine, said in an interview in Kiev that further penalties against Russia were justified.
新罕布什尔州参议员凯利·阿约特(Kelly Ayotte)和其他一些共和党人对奥巴马政府应对俄罗斯在乌行动的手法提出了尖锐的批评，她在基辅的一次采访中表示，美国有理由进一步惩戒俄罗斯。
“We know this was Russia,” Ms. Ayotte said. “Putin has control there. He could stop it if he really put his foot down.”
阿约特说，“我们知道这是俄罗斯干的。普京能够控制那里。真要是坚决反对的话，他是能够制止破坏行动的。”
Ms. Ayotte, a member of the Armed Services Committee, also said that Mr. Poroshenko had appealed for greater military and technical assistance in a private meeting with American officials.
身为参议院军事委员会(Armed Services Committee)委员的阿约特还说，和美方官员私下会面时，波罗申科已请求美方提供更多的军事和技术援助。
“He wants to unify the east, he wants to reach out and have conversations,” Ms. Ayotte said. “He recognizes the barrier to that is the security situation, and he would like us to push back against Putin.”
阿约特说，“他想统一东部，他想和东部接触，和东部对话。他意识到安全局势是这些行动的障碍，并且希望我们遏制普京。”
Mr. Poroshenko, a pro-European billionaire, is a veteran of Ukraininan politics, having served as Parliament speaker, foreign minister and trade minister. He made his fortune in chocolate, but now also owns businesses in many other sectors, including a television station, as well as in shipping, agriculture and automobiles.
亲欧的亿万富翁波罗申科是乌克兰政坛的一名老手，曾担任乌克兰议会议长、外交部长和贸易部长。他通过生产巧克力发家致富，如今则已将业务拓展至其他许多行业，其中包括一家电视台，以及航运业、农业和汽车制造业。
At the news conference on Monday, Mr. Poroshenko said that he would now sell all of his assets except the television station, Channel 5.
在周一的新闻发布会上，波罗申科表示，除了名为第五频道(Channel 5)的前述电视台之外，他会立即卖掉名下的所有资产。