North Korea’s success in testing an intercontinental ballistic missile that appears able to reach the United States was made possible by black-market purchases of powerful rocket engines probably from a Ukrainian factory with historical ties to Russia’s missile program, according to an expert analysis being published Monday and classified assessments by American intelligence agencies.
据周一发表的一份专家分析、以及美国情报机构的保密评估，朝鲜从黑市上购买的、可能来自一家历史上与俄罗斯导弹计划有联系的乌克兰工厂的强有力的火箭发动机，让朝鲜在测试洲际弹道导弹上取得了成功，这种导弹看来已经能够到达美国。
The studies may solve the mystery of how North Korea began succeeding so suddenly after a string of fiery missile failures, some of which may have been caused by American sabotage of its supply chains and cyberattacks on its launches. After those failures, the North changed designs and suppliers in the past two years, according to a new study by Michael Elleman, a missile expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies.
这些研究也许可以解释朝鲜是怎样在一连串导弹测试失败之后，突然开始成功的谜团，失败中的一些也许是美国破坏朝鲜导弹项目的供应链、对发射进行网络攻击造成的。据国际战略研究所(International Institute for Strategic Studies)的导弹专家迈克尔·埃尔曼(Michael Elleman)的一项新研究，在那些失败之后的过去两年里，朝鲜改变了导弹设计和项目的供应商。
Such a degree of aid to North Korea from afar would be notable because President Trump has singled out only China as the North’s main source of economic and technological support. He has never blamed Ukraine or Russia, though his secretary of state, Rex W. Tillerson, made an oblique reference to both China and Russia as the nation’s “principal economic enablers” after the North’s most recent ICBM launch last month.
朝鲜得到了来自远方的如此程度的帮助这件事本身就值得注意，因为特朗普总统一直单独针对中国，认为中国是朝鲜的经济和技术支持的主要来源。他从未责怪过乌克兰或俄罗斯，虽然他的国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)在朝鲜上个月的最近一次洲际弹道导弹（简称ICBM）发射之后，曾拐弯抹角地说中国和俄罗斯是让朝鲜“经济成为可能的主要推手”。
Analysts who studied photographs of the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, inspecting the new rocket motors concluded that they derive from designs that once powered the Soviet Union’s missile fleet. The engines were so powerful that a single missile could hurl 10 thermonuclear warheads between continents.
对朝鲜领导人金正恩检阅新火箭发动机时的照片进行分析人得出结论认为，导弹发动机来自曾经为苏联导弹群提供动力的设计。这种发动机非常强有力，单个导弹可以把10个热核弹头从一个大洲运载到另一个大洲。
Those engines were linked to only a few former Soviet sites. Government investigators and experts have focused their inquiries on a missile factory in Dnipro, Ukraine, on the edge of the territory where Russia is fighting a low-level war to break off part of Ukraine. During the Cold War, the factory made the deadliest missiles in the Soviet arsenal, including the giant SS-18. It remained one of Russia’s primary producers of missiles even after Ukraine gained independence.
这些发动机只与苏联以前的几个地点有关。政府调查人员和专家们都已把集力集中在调查乌克兰德尼普罗的一个导弹工厂上，在德尼普罗所在的乌克兰边境地区，俄罗斯正在进行一场低级别的战争，目的是将乌克兰的这个部分分裂出去。在冷战期间，这家工厂制造了苏联武器库中最致命的导弹，包括巨型的SS-18导弹。即使在乌克兰获得独立之后，这家工厂仍然是俄罗斯导弹的主要供应商之一。
But since Ukraine’s pro-Russian president, Viktor Yanukovych, was removed from power in 2014, the state-owned factory, known as Yuzhmash, has fallen on hard times. The Russians canceled upgrades of their nuclear fleet. The factory is underused, awash in unpaid bills and low morale. Experts believe it is the most likely source of the engines that in July powered the two ICBM tests, which were the first to suggest that North Korea has the range, if not necessarily the accuracy or warhead technology, to threaten American cities.
但是，自从乌克兰亲俄罗斯的前总统维克托·亚努科维奇(Viktor Yanukovych)在2014年被剥夺权力之后，这家名为尤兹马什(Yuzhmash)的国有工厂开始陷入困境。俄罗斯取消了他们的核武器装备升级计划。目前这家工厂没有得到充分利用，有很多未偿还的帐单，人员士气低落。专家认为，这是7月份为两颗ICBM的测试提供动力的发动机的最可能的来源，也首次暗示了朝鲜已经具有威胁美国城市的射程，尽管该国还不一定具有导弹的准确度或核弹头技术。
“It’s likely that these engines came from Ukraine — probably illicitly,” Mr. Elleman said in an interview. “The big question is how many they have and whether the Ukrainians are helping them now. I’m very worried.”
“这些发动机很可能来自乌克兰，可能是非法获得的，”埃尔曼在接受采访时说。“一个大问题是，朝鲜人有几个这种发动机，乌克兰人现在是否还在帮助他们。我很担心。”
Bolstering his conclusion, he added, was a finding by United Nations investigators that North Korea tried six years ago to steal missile secrets from the Ukrainian complex. Two North Koreans were caught, and a U.N. report said the information they tried to steal was focused on advanced “missile systems, liquid-propellant engines, spacecraft and missile fuel supply systems.”
他补充说，加强了自己结论的是，联合国调查人员发现，朝鲜在六年前曾试图窃取这家乌克兰工厂的导弹秘密。当时有两名朝鲜人被抓，联合国的一份报告说，他们试图窃取的资料主要是先进的“导弹系统、液体推进剂发动机、航天器和导弹燃料供应系统”。
Investigators now believe that, amid the chaos of post-revolutionary Ukraine, Pyongyang tried again.
调查人员现在认为，在乌克兰革命后的混乱中，平壤再度试手。
Mr. Elleman’s detailed analysis is public confirmation of what intelligence officials have been saying privately for some time: The new missiles are based on a technology so complex that it would have been impossible for the North Koreans to have switched gears so quickly themselves. They apparently fired up the new engine for the first time in September — meaning that it took only 10 months to go from that basic milestone to firing an ICBM, a short time unless they were able to buy designs, hardware and expertise on the black market.
埃尔曼的详细分析是对一段时间以来情报官员一直在私下里表示的东西的公开确认：这些新型导弹基于一种如此复杂的技术，以至于朝鲜人靠自己的力量本不可能如此快速地改换技术。他们显然是在去年9月首次使用新发动机的——这就意味着，从那个基本里程碑出发，到发射ICBM，只用了10个月的时间，这是很短的时间，除非朝鲜人在黑市上购买了设计、硬件和专业知识。
The White House had no comment when asked about the intelligence assessments.
当被问及有关情报评估时，白宫没有发表评论。
Last month, Yuzhmash denied reports that the factory complex was struggling for survival and selling its technologies abroad. Its website says the company does not, has not and will not participate in “the transfer of potentially dangerous technologies outside Ukraine.”
上个月有报道说，尤兹马什的工厂为了生存，正在把自己的技术卖给外国，尤兹马什对报道表示否认。其网站说，公司在现在、过去和未来都不会参与“把潜在危险技术转让给乌克兰以外的地方”的活动。
American investigators do not believe that denial, though they say there is no evidence that the government of President Petro O. Poroshenko, who recently visited the White House, had any knowledge or control over what was happening inside the complex.
美国调查人员不相信上述否认，尽管他们表示，没有证据表明最近访问过白宫的乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)的政府对工厂内部发生的事情不知情或有控制权。
On Monday, after this story was published, Oleksandr Turchynov, a top national security official in the government of Mr. Poroshenko, denied any Ukrainian involvement.
周一，在这篇报道发表之后，波罗申科政府的一名高级国家安全官员奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)否认了乌克兰的任何参与。
“This information is not based on any grounds, provocative by its content, and most likely provoked by Russian secret services to cover their own crimes,” Mr. Turchynov said. He said the Ukrainian government views North Korea as “totalitarian, dangerous and unpredictable, and supports all sanctions against this country.”
“这些信息没有任何根据，其内容具有高度的挑衅性，很可能是俄罗斯情报部门为掩盖自己的罪行而制造的东西，”图奇诺夫说。他说，乌政府视朝鲜为“极权、危险、不可预测（的国家），并支持对这个国家的所有制裁”。
How the Russian-designed engines, called the RD-250, got to North Korea is still a mystery.
俄罗斯设计的代号为RD-250的发动机是如何进入朝鲜的仍是个谜。
Mr. Elleman was unable to rule out the possibility that a large Russian missile enterprise, Energomash, which has strong ties to the Ukrainian complex, had a role in the transfer of the RD-250 engine technology to North Korea. He said leftover RD-250 engines might also be stored in Russian warehouses.
埃尔曼不能排除一家与该乌克兰工厂有密切关系的俄罗斯大型导弹企业Energomash把RD-250发动机技术转让给朝鲜方面发挥了作用的可能性。他说，剩下的RD-250发动机还可能存放在俄罗斯的仓库里。
But the fact that the powerful engines did get to North Korea, despite a raft of United Nations sanctions, suggests a broad intelligence failure involving the many nations that monitor Pyongyang.
但是，在联合国加强制裁的时候，强有力的火箭发动机确实进入了朝鲜这一事实表明，许多国家监督平壤的情报网络失败了。
Since President Barack Obama ordered a step-up in sabotage against the North’s missile systems in 2014, American officials have closely monitored their success. They appeared to have won a major victory last fall, when Mr. Kim ordered an end to flight tests of the Musudan, an intermediate-range missile that was a focus of the American sabotage effort.
奥巴马总统曾在2014年下令加紧破坏朝鲜的导弹系统，从那以后，美国官员一直在密切监视着他们是否成功。他们似乎在去年秋天取得了重大胜利，当时金正恩下令停止了“舞水端”中程导弹的飞行测试，这种导弹是美国破坏的重点。
But no sooner had Mr. Kim ordered a stand-down of that system than the North rolled out engines of a different design. And those tests were more successful.
但是，金正恩刚下令对舞水端系统进行休整，朝鲜就推出了采用不同设计的发动机。用新发动机进行的测试也更成功。
American officials will not say when they caught on to the North’s change of direction. But there is considerable evidence they came to it late.
美国官员不想说他们是什么时候才跟上了朝鲜的方向改变的。但有相当多的证据表明，他们动作晚了。
Leon Panetta, the former C.I.A. director, said on CBS’ “Face the Nation” on Sunday that the North Korean drive to get workable ICBMs that could be integrated with nuclear weapons moved more quickly than the intelligence community had expected.
中央情报局前局长莱昂·帕内塔(Leon Panetta)周日在哥伦比亚广播公司《面向全国》(Face the Nation)节目中表示，朝鲜获得可与核武器相结合的能工作的ICBM的努力，比情报界预期的进行得要快。
“The rapid nature of how they’ve been able to come to that capability is something, frankly, that has surprised both the United States and the world,” he said.
“他们能够实现这种能力的速度之快，坦白地说，是让美国和世界感到惊讶的事情，”帕内塔说。