KIEV, Ukraine — As his allies deserted him and throngs of people bayed for his blood almost within earshot of his office, President Viktor F. Yanukovych took time out on Friday to celebrate Ukraine’s first gold medal at the Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia. In a message of congratulations to the women’s biathlon relay team, he praised its “power and will to win.”
乌克兰基辅——当盟友纷纷抛弃他，抗议者几乎就在窗外叫喊要把他置于死地的时候，维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)周五还抽空祝贺乌克兰队在俄罗斯索契冬奥会中赢得首枚金牌。在发给参加两项女子接力赛的队伍的贺信中，亚努科维奇称赞她们“夺冠的能力和决心”。
Shortly before issuing that message, Mr. Yanukovych, still driven by a “will to win” of his own that many others in his crumbling administration had abandoned, signed an agreement with three opposition leaders that he hoped would keep him in power until December, and perhaps longer.
就在发表贺词前不久，亚努科维奇自己也受到“获胜决心”的驱使，与三名反对派领导人签署协议，尽管在摇摇欲坠的政府中，有很多人已经选择放弃了这种决心。亚努科维奇希望该协议能允许他继续执政到12月份，或者更久。
“He was fighting hard to preserve whatever he could and yield the least,” said Radoslaw Sikorski, the foreign minister of Poland, who spent hours with Mr. Yanukovych as part of a team of European diplomats who mediated the accord. “His big miscalculation, as always, was to leave things too late. Timing is everything.”
“他在努力保留他能够保留的，做出最小程度的让步，”波兰外长拉多斯瓦夫·西科尔斯基(Radoslaw Sikorski)说。“一如既往地，他的错误在于放弃的时机太迟了。时机决定一切。”西科尔斯基作为负责调解达成协议的欧洲外交官团队的一员与亚努科维奇会谈了几个小时。
By late Friday afternoon, Mr. Yanukovych’s time had run out. Between the signing ceremony for the peace deal, held at the vast, colonnaded building that houses Ukraine’s presidential administration, and his break for Olympic cheerleading, the president’s prospects had taken a dramatic turn for the worse: Hundreds of riot police officers guarding the presidential compound and nearby government buildings had vanished.
到周五下午晚些时候，亚努科维奇已经没有时间了。他在乌克兰总统府——一座有柱廊的宏伟建筑——参加和平协议签订仪式，还抽时间为冬奥运呐喊助威，在此期间，这位总统的前景发生了戏剧性的转折：数百名保卫总统府邸及周围政府建筑的防暴警察都已消失不见。
“It was astonishing,” said Mr. Sikorski, who, while leaving the presidential building, watched in dismay as police officers jumped into buses and drove off. “That was not part of the deal. Astonishing.”
“令人震惊，”西科尔斯基说。“这不在协议之中。真是难以置信。”离开总统府时，西科尔斯基神情沮丧，看着警察们跳上大巴车离去。
The departure of the police had been days in the making, a result of a sequence of events that began late on Wednesday with the seizure of an Interior Ministry armory in the western city of Lviv and the transportation of those weapons to the outskirts of Kiev, the capital. Violent clashes on Thursday, which left more than 80 protesters and many police officers dead, enraged the opposition and sapped the will of Mr. Yanukovych’s enforcers, if not Mr. Yanukovych himself.
警察的撤离是几日来的一系列事件造成的结果——上周三晚些时候，反对派控制了内政部位于西部城市利沃夫的军械库，并将武器运至基辅郊区。周四的暴力冲突致使80多名抗议者和很多警察死亡，激怒了反对派，挫败了亚努科维奇的策略执行人乃至亚努科维奇本人的意志。
By the end of Friday, the deal that Mr. Yanukovych had believed would win him at least a few more months in office was dead, discarded the moment enraged protesters in Kiev’s Independence Square learned of it. But Mr. Yanukovych was on a plane to the eastern city of Kharkiv, a planned trip that he still appeared to believe would be just another official visit in his four-year-old presidency.
亚努科维奇曾认为该协议会为他赢得至少几个月的执政时间，但在周五午夜前，也就是独立广场上愤怒的抗议者刚知道这份协议时，协议已经失效、被废弃。但亚努科维奇当时正在飞往东部城市哈尔科夫的飞机上，他似乎仍认为这个预定行程只是他四年执政时期中的另一次官方访问活动。
The political crisis erupted in November after Mr. Yanukovych rejected, at the last minute, a trade deal with the European Union that he had been promising to sign for months. Throughout, the president displayed an almost delusional disregard of the forces gathering against him, along with a misplaced trust in his supporters’ loyalty and determination to defend him.
乌克兰于去年11月爆发政治危机，当时亚努科维奇在最后一刻拒绝与欧盟签订贸易协议，而他在之前几个月里一直承诺将签署该协议。自始至终，亚努科维奇错误地漠视反对势力，并错信了其支持者保卫他的忠心与决心。
In a television interview given in Kharkiv on Saturday after protesters had taken control of his offices, his palatial residence outside Kiev and other once-impregnable centers of power, Mr. Yanukovych complained indignantly that the events in Kiev had prevented him from attending a Soviet-style congress in Kharkiv of politicians and dignitaries from eastern and southern Ukraine.
周六，在抗议者控制了他的办公室、位于基辅郊区的富丽堂皇的住所及其他曾经坚不可摧的权力中心之后，亚努科维奇在接受电视台采访时愤慨地抱怨称，基辅的事件已经使他无法参加在哈尔科夫召开的苏式代表大会，与会人员都是来自乌克兰东部及南部的政客和显要人物。
Mr. Yanukovych has not been heard from since. Even his official presidential website, which was still under his control through the takeover of Kiev by protesters on Saturday, finally died on Sunday. At the same time, his last allies jumped ship, with his party issuing a scathing statement denouncing him as a coward, a criminal and a crook.
自此之后，亚努科维奇便杳无音讯。周六，在抗议者接管基辅期间，总统的官方网站仍在他的掌控之中，但网站最终也在周日沦陷。与此同时，那些仅剩的盟友也纷纷离职，他所在的政党发布了一份言辞尖刻的声明，称他是懦夫、罪犯、骗子。
The events that led to his ouster accelerated early last week after a month of relative calm. On Tuesday, empowered by a new aid package from Russia announced the day before, Mr. Yanukovych pressed to remove an encampment of antigovernment activists from Independence Square, where they had been cursing his government since November.
在经过相对平静的一个月后，事件在上周早些时候进一步加剧，最终导致亚努科维奇下台。周二，在俄罗斯前一天宣布的新援助计划助威下，亚努科维奇要求取缔反政府活动人士在独立广场的营地，他们从去年11月开始一直在独立广场咒骂亚努科维奇领导的政府。
Squads of riot police overpowered the outer ring of defenses protesters had set up and advanced to within 25 yards of a stage in the center of the square, called the Maidan.
防暴小组控制了抗议者设立的屏障的外围，并向前推进至离独立广场中心舞台不到25码（约合23米）的地方。
Running out of options, the protesters mounted a final, desperate defense, a so-called ring of fire stoked with tires, firewood and even their own sleeping bags and pads.
抗议者别无选择，孤注一掷地设立了最后的屏障，也就是用轮胎、木柴，以及他们自己的睡袋和软垫制成的所谓的火圈。
But Andrei Levus, deputy head of the Maidan “self-defense” forces, the umbrella organization of militant activists fighting the government, knew he had reinforcements on the way. Protesters in Lviv had overrun an Interior Ministry garrison and were en route to Kiev with the captured military weapons.
但独立广场“自卫”队——与政府对抗的激进活动人士的联盟组织的副主管安德烈·列乌斯(Andrei Levus)知道援军正在赶来。利沃夫的抗议者已经占领了内政部的一个要塞，并带着抢获的军用武器赶往基辅。
“I’m reluctant to talk about this because we are protesters and not illegal armed groups,” Mr. Levus said. “But the square was about to look different. There would be more people, and they would not have had empty hands.”
“我不想谈论这件事，因为我们是抗议者，不是非法的武装组织，”列乌斯说。“但广场看起来会有所不同。会有更多人，而且他们将不再是赤手空拳。”
Despite the dwindling of the protective fires, the protesters decided to hold on to the square long enough for both sides to consider the significance of the arrival of the weapons in the capital.
尽管防护性的火墙不断减弱，抗议者还是决定坚守广场，双方有足够的时间考虑武器到达首都意味着什么。
Using a member of Parliament as an intermediary, Mr. Levus opened a line of communication with a deputy interior minister, whom he declined to name. It appeared that Mr. Yanukovych, perhaps sensing that his security forces were reluctant to press the crackdown, was inclined to turn to the army for help. He had fired the armed forces chief of staff, Col. Gen. Volodymyr Zamana, on Monday.
由一名议会成员牵线，列乌斯开始与一名内政部副部长保持电话联系，不过他拒绝透露这名副部长的名字。亚努科维奇似乎也察觉到安全部队不愿意镇压抗议活动，他更愿意向军队求助。他已经在周一将陆军总参谋长弗拉基米尔·扎马纳(Volodymyr Zamana)上将解职。
“We understood they had a few hundred fanatical riot police, but the rest of the police would not fight,” Mr. Levus said.
“我们知道，他们有几百名狂热的防暴警察，但其余警察不想参与战斗，”列乌斯说。
“Our people are ideologically motivated, and on the contrary, they were demoralized,” he added. “They did not want this fight. And he understood that our people were ready to run against gunfire.”
“我们斗志昂扬，他们却士气低落，”他表示。“他们不想参与这场战斗。他知道，我们的人已经准备迎着枪炮而上。”
Mr. Levus said he received a call on his cellphone around noon on Thursday from the deputy interior minister. “I told him, ‘We will guarantee the safety of the police if they leave the city,’ ” he said.
列乌斯说，上周四中午，他的手机接到那名内政部副部长的电话。“我告诉他，‘如果他们离开这个城市，我们将保证警察的安全，’”他说。
The deputy minister agreed first to a cease-fire until 3 p.m., when Parliament was set to meet. With support from some members of Mr. Yanukovych’s fast-disintegrating Party of Regions, Parliament voted to support the protesters’ demand that the police demobilize.
这名副部长同意先停火到下午3点，以便让议会开会。亚努科维奇的地区党(Party of Regions)正在迅速瓦解，在该党一部分成员的支持下，议会投票支持了抗议者让警察撤离的要求。
Mr. Yanukovych, for his part, had begun discussions with the European mediators. According to Mr. Sikorski, the Polish foreign minister, the president was digging in his heels, telling the French, German and Polish diplomats that he was not to blame for the crisis and refusing even to consider setting a date for an early election.
亚努科维奇自己则已经开始和欧洲调解员进行讨论。波兰外长西科尔斯基表示，亚努科维奇一意孤行，还对法国、德国和波兰外交官说，这场危机不能怪罪于他，他甚至拒绝考虑为提前举行大选定下日期。
Mr. Sikorski said he told Mr. Yanukovych that the only way to sell a deal to the opposition was to specify when a new presidential election would be held. “You need to declare on what date you’ll resign,” he said he told the president.
西科尔斯基说，他告诉亚努科维奇，让反对派同意一项协议的唯一办法，就是明确什么时候进行新的总统选举。他说自己对亚努科维奇说：“你需要表个态，你哪天会辞职。”
Mr. Yanukovych “went white,” Mr. Sikorski said. But the deadlock lifted after the Ukrainian leader received a phone call shortly afterward from President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. “He came back, he was agreeing to limit his time in office,” Mr. Sikorski said. “That made everything possible.”
西科尔斯基说当时亚努科维奇“脸色苍白”。但是，在这位乌克兰领导人接到俄罗斯总统普京的电话之后不久，僵局得以打破。“他回来了，他同意缩短任期，”西科尔斯基说。“这使得一切都有了可能。”
At the same time, the police and Parliament had their own deliberations underway. On Friday morning, Parliament passed a motion dismissing Mr. Yanukovych’s hated interior minister, Vitaly Zakharchenko, for using violence against protesters. And the protesters’ fighting groups held talks with individual police commanders about how their officers would withdraw, in keeping with an earlier resolution by Parliament calling on the riot police to stand down.
与此同时，警方和议会也在进行自己的讨论。上周五上午，议会通过一项议案，以对示威者使用暴力为由，将亚努科维奇手下那位招人憎恨的内政部长维塔利·扎哈尔琴科(Vitaliy Zakharchenko)免职。抗议者的战斗团队也与个别警方指挥官谈论了警察撤离的方式，以落实议会之前发布的一项撤离防暴警察的决议。
By late Friday afternoon, just as the European diplomats were leaving the presidential offices after the signing of the peace deal, police officers at the most sensitive positions around Mr. Yanukovych’s office compound and the Cabinet of Ministers building were withdrawing.
上周五下午晚些时候，就在欧洲外交官签署和平协议后离开总统府时，在亚努科维奇办公大楼和内阁部长大楼周围一些最敏感地点的警察开始撤离。
When the protesters in Independence Square heard the details of the deal, they made clear it was a nonstarter. Volodymyr Parasiuk, a leader of one of the fighting units, took to the stage and announced that his men would begin armed attacks if Mr. Yanukovych had not resigned by morning.
独立广场上的抗议者们了解到了这份协议的细节后明确表示，这是个毫无希望的协议。一个战斗团队的领导者弗拉基米尔·帕拉斯尤克(Volodymyr Parasiuk)走上舞台，宣布亚努科维奇如果到了早上还没有辞职的话，他的人将开始进行武装攻击。
By dawn, well-organized groups of protesters armed with clubs and shields, but not guns, were already swarming toward Mr. Yanukovych’s offices, the Cabinet of Ministers building (the headquarters of the government) and Parliament. With the police forces gone, they met no resistance.
黎明时，组织有序的抗议者已经手持棍棒和盾牌，而不是枪，向亚努科维奇的办公大楼、内阁部长大楼（政府总部）和议会涌去。由于警察已经撤离，他们并没有遇到抵抗。
Vadim Ovad, who used to work as a driver and bodyguard, said he reached the Cabinet of Ministers building around 6 a.m. and joined other members of his unit in guarding it. As the sun came up and news spread that Mr. Yanukovych had left Kiev, people from across the city began flooding into the area to savor a victory few had expected.
瓦迪姆·欧瓦德(Vadim Ovad)曾是一名司机兼保镖，他说自己早上六点左右到了内阁部长大楼，和队友一起守着它。当太阳升起，新闻媒体说亚努科维奇已经离开基辅时，人们开始从全市各处涌入这个地区，品尝出乎意料的胜利。
“I have never seen so many people smiling,” Mr. Ovad said. “Everyone is overflowing with delight.”
“我从来没有见过这么多人面带微笑，”欧瓦德说。“每个人都洋溢着喜悦之情。”