SLOVYANSK, Ukraine — A military operation that the Ukrainian government said would confront pro-Russian militants in the east of the country unraveled in disarray on Wednesday with the entire contingent of 21 armored vehicles that had separated into two columns surrendering or pulling back before nightfall. It was a glaring humiliation for the new government in Kiev.
乌克兰斯洛夫扬斯克——本周三，乌克兰的一个军事行动遭受溃败；该国政府曾表示，这个行动旨在打击东部的亲俄武装分子。整支队伍总共有21辆装甲车，分成两个纵队，还不到天黑，他们就或投降，或撤退了。对于基辅新政府来说，这不啻是一个奇耻大辱。
Though gunshots were fired throughout the day, and continued sporadically through the evening in this town that is occupied by pro-Russian militants, it was unclear whether anybody had been wounded.
在被亲俄武装分子占领的城镇斯洛夫扬斯克，虽然当天白天整天都有枪声响起，晚上也可以听到零星枪响，但是否有人受伤并不清楚。
One of the armored columns stopped when a crowd of men drinking beer and women yelling taunts and insults gathered on the road before them, and later in the day its commander agreed to hand over the soldiers’ assault rifles to the very separatists they were sent to fight.
当人群聚集在行军路上时，一个装甲纵队停止了前进；在人群中，男人们喝着啤酒，女人们则大声嘲弄辱骂纵队官兵。当天晚些时候，指挥官同意让士兵把突击步枪交给这些他们本来被派去打击的分裂分子。
Another column from the same ostensibly elite unit, the 25th Dnipropetrovsk paratrooper brigade, surrendered not only its weapons but also the tracked and armored vehicles it had arrived in, letting militants park them as trophies, under a Russian flag, in a central square here.
这支貌似属于精锐部队的第25聂伯罗彼得罗夫斯克伞兵旅(25th Dnipropetrovsk paratrooper brigade)的另一个纵队不仅缴出了武器，还把随行的履带式装甲车也拱手交出，让武装分子把它们停放在这里的一个中心广场，插着俄罗斯国旗作为战利品展示。
A pro-Russian militant then climbed into the driver’s seat of one and spun the vehicle around on its tracks, screeching and roaring, to please the watching crowd.
然后一个亲俄武装分子爬上其中一辆的驾驶员座位，让装甲车旋转车身，发出刹车声和发动机的轰鸣声，让围观人群取乐。
The events of the day underscored the weakness of the new government in Kiev entering critical talks with the United States and Russia in Geneva on Thursday over Ukraine’s future. Unable to exercise authority over their own military, officials increasingly seem powerless to contain a growing rebellion by pro-Russian militants that has spread to at least nine cities in eastern Ukraine.
当天的事件突显了基辅新政府的软弱。本周四，这个新政府将与美国和俄罗斯在日内瓦进行关键会谈，讨论乌克兰的前途问题。亲俄武装分子发起的叛乱愈演愈烈，已经扩散到乌克兰东部至少九个城市，而无法控制自己军队的乌克兰官员们似乎越来越无力遏制这种局面。
In a tactical error, the Ukrainian soldiers on Wednesday had no accompanying force to control the crowds that formed around their advancing units. Their task, to confront armed militants intermingled with civilians, would be extremely difficult for any conventional army, but for this group, which apparently lacked the tools and the heart to carry it out, it proved to be impossible.
乌克兰清剿部队本周三犯了一个战术错误，没有派出可以控制聚集在行军路上的人群的协同作战力量。他们需要打击混杂在平民中的武装分子，这个任务对于任何传统军队来说都非常困难，但是清缴部队显然既缺乏工具，也无心去执行这个任务，事实证明，这对他们而言是个不可能完成的任务。
Just placing the conventional army forces near this darker, more insidious mix of unconventional tactics risked such a setback. “You are fulfilling criminal orders,” one local resident yelled at a Ukrainian soldier sitting on an armored vehicle.
只要接近这里的较为黑暗险恶的非常规战术组合，常规陆军部队就面临着失利的风险。“你正在执行罪恶的命令，”当地居民对坐在装甲车里的一个乌克兰士兵吼叫道。
The soldier said he was not, and showed that he had removed the magazine from his assault rifle. “You are saying ‘Come over to the side of the people,’ ” he said. “I am a soldier. I protect the people. I won’t shoot you.”
这名士兵说他没有，并展示他已经退下了突击步枪的弹匣。“你说‘过来站在民众的一边’，”他说。“我是一个士兵。我的责任是保护民众。我不会朝你们开枪。”
Ukrainian military helicopters buzzed over the scene but were of no help to the soldiers’ quandary below.
乌克兰军用直升机当时在空中盘旋，但它们对地面上士兵遭遇的窘境也无能为力。
They faced not only the civilians, but behind them a force of well-armed men in unmarked green uniforms, who Western governments have said are either Russian soldiers or Russian-equipped militants. These soldiers were well armed. They carried radios and ammunition pouches. Some had rocket-propelled grenade launchers slung over their shoulders.
这些士兵遭遇的不仅是平民，还有平民身后穿着无标志绿色制服、装备精良的武装分子，西方政府表示，这些人或者是俄罗斯士兵，或者是俄罗斯为这些人提供了装备。这些士兵装备精良，携带着无线电装备和弹药袋。有些人肩上还扛着火箭助推榴弹发射器。
The Ukrainian contingent that surrendered handed over their vehicles to men in unmarked green uniforms, who made their presence more public on Wednesday than it had been earlier. They drove them to the central plaza of Slovyansk, a town about 120 miles from the Russian border, and parked them there for all to see, the flags of Russia and the newly declared and wholly unrecognized People’s Republic of Donetsk flapping above them in the breeze.
投降的乌克兰清剿部队把自己的车辆交给了这些穿着无标识绿色制服的武装分子，和早些时候相比，这些武装分子本周三更加公然地开展了活动。在距离俄罗斯边境约120英里的小镇斯洛夫扬斯克， 武装分子把这些车辆开到中心广场，并停放在那里示众。车辆上方，俄罗斯国旗和顿涅茨克人民共和国国旗就在微风中飘扬。新近声称成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国完全没有得到国际承认。
In Kiev, the Ministry of Defense initially denied that the armored vehicles had been captured. Then Sergei Sobolev, the acting head of the Fatherland Party in Parliament, claimed that the armored vehicles had flown Russian flags as part of an ingenious subterfuge to get through pro-Russian crowds.
在基辅，国防部一开始否认这些装甲车已被缴获。此后，祖国联盟(Fatherland Party)在国会的代理负责人谢尔盖·索伯列夫(Sergei Sobolev)声称，装甲车插上俄罗斯国旗是一条伪装妙计，目的是穿过亲俄人群。
Ukrainian news media quoted Mr. Sobolev as saying it was a “guerrilla approach” to infiltrate separatist-controlled areas through pro-Russian civilian mobs. Rather than a disastrous setback for Ukrainians, he said the appearance of Ukrainian military vehicles flying Russian flags was a “breakthrough” for the Ukrainian offensive, though it proved to be nothing of the sort.
乌克兰新闻媒体援引索伯列夫的话说，这是一个“游击战方法”，是为了在分裂分子控制的地区穿过亲俄的暴民人群。他说乌克兰军用车辆上竖起俄罗斯国旗不是一个灾难性的挫折，而是乌克兰进攻行动中的一个“突破”，尽管事实证明情况根本不是这样。
Later, the Ukrainian military conceded that six vehicles had been captured but said nothing of the surrender of rifles from the other column.
后来，乌军方承认已经有六辆装甲车被分裂分子控制，但对另一支纵队交出步枪一事没有任何说法。