KIEV, Ukraine — In keeping with a provision of a recent cease-fire agreement with separatists, the Ukrainian government submitted a draft law to Parliament on Monday that would grant “special status” to the breakaway Donetsk and Luhansk regions for three years.
乌克兰基辅——周一，根据不久前与分裂分子达成的停火协议中的条款，乌克兰政府向议会提交了一份法律草案，让自行独立的顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克地区享有三年的“特殊待遇”。
The main points include amnesty for those who participated in the “events” in those regions; the right to use Russian as an official language; the election of local councils; funds for social and economic development from the state budget; and the right to form local police forces.
草案的要点包括，特赦在这两个地区参加“活动”的人；该地区有权将俄语作为官方语言；选举地方议会；经济社会发展所需的资金来自国家预算；该地区有权在当地组建警察部队。
But it is not clear that the law, if it passes, would be acceptable to the separatist leaders or their patron in Moscow, President Vladimir V. Putin.
但目前尚不清楚，如果法案被通过，分裂派领袖以及他们在莫斯科的庇护者、俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)能否接受它。
One of the sticking points in future negotiations involving Russia is expected to be the degree of autonomy, with Moscow pushing from the beginning of the conflict for a federal system that would allow for the regions to maintain independent foreign relations. Some analysts say that the Kremlin is seeking a system that would allow the east to veto attempts by Kiev to draw closer to the West.
在俄罗斯会参与的未来谈判中，一个关键点将是这两个地区的自治程度。莫斯科从冲突一开始就推动它们建立联邦制度，这样就可以保持独立的外交关系。一些分析人士称，克里姆林宫正在寻求通过这个制度，使乌克兰东部能够反对基辅接近西方的尝试。
In presenting the bill to parliamentary leaders, President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine also specified that the amnesty would not cover those who had committed violent crimes — premeditated murder, rape and pillage, among others.
在把草案提交给议会领导人的同时，乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O.Poroshenko)明确指出，特赦的对象将不包含暴力犯罪者——比如有预谋的杀人、强奸和抢劫等。
The president explained that the law contained “de facto elements of decentralization” while keeping Ukraine whole, according to a statement on the presidential website.
波罗申科在官方网站上的声明中解释说，这部法律包括了“事实上的分权要素”，同时又保留了乌克兰的整体性。
Mr. Poroshenko also said that the three-year life of the law would allow time for changes in the Constitution that would bring “profound decentralization” throughout Ukraine. “There is nothing more important for us than peace,” he said. “These are the key positions that will ensure it.”
波罗申科还说，法律的有效期为三年，这将为宪法的修改留出时间，这些改变将为整个乌克兰带来“深度的权力分散”。“对于我们来说，没有什么比和平更重要，”他说。“这些法律是确保和平的关键立场。”
In the restive southeast, six international monitors from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe came under artillery fire and were pinned down for three hours in a village south of Donetsk on Sunday afternoon despite the cease-fire, a spokesman said Monday.
欧洲安全与合作组织（Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe，简称OSCE）的发言人周一称，该组织的六名国际观察员在动荡的东南部遭遇炮火袭击，在顿涅茨克南部的一个村子里困了三个小时。
None of the organization’s personnel involved were injured, but their two armored vehicles were damaged, one so badly that it had to be abandoned.
这些人员都安然无恙，但他们的两辆装甲车遭到毁坏，其中一辆损毁严重，不得不被丢弃。
“It’s the first time we have taken live fire in six months,” said Michael Bociurkiw, a spokesman for the mission in Ukraine. “We need a secure environment in order to work.”
“这是六个月来我们首次遭到实弹火力袭击，”乌克兰任务小组发言人迈克尔·博丘克乌(Michael Bociurkiw)说。“我们需要安全的环境才能工作。”
The principal job of the organization’s monitors, who are unarmed, is to gather information on security in the region. The organization helped mediate peace talks between Russia and Ukraine that led to the Sept. 5 cease-fire and to the still hazy outlines of a political solution.
该组织的观察员没有配备武器，他们的主要工作是收集有关该地区安全方面的信息。在该组织的斡旋下，俄罗斯与乌克兰举行了和平谈判，于9月5日达成停火协议，勾画出依旧模糊的政治解决方案轮廓。
While the large offensive operations between Ukrainian forces and rebel fighters, backed by Russian soldiers and artillery, have ended, both sides frequently breach the cease-fire by trading artillery and sometimes rifle fire.
虽然乌克兰军队与由俄罗斯士兵、火炮助力的叛军之间已经停止大规模的攻击行动，但双方都时常违反停火协议，向对方发射炮弹，偶尔还有步枪交火。
The shooting on Sunday occurred in the village of Debaltseve, 40 miles northeast of the regional capital, Donetsk. The area is a crossover point between Ukrainian and rebel front lines on the route to the site of the Malaysia Airlines jet that crashed two months ago.
周日的冲突发生在该地区首府顿涅茨克东北部40英里（约合64公里）处的德巴泽维村。该区域是乌克兰与叛军前线的交叉点，前往两个月前马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)飞机失事现场的道路就经过这里。
Leaders of the O.S.C.E. mission met with the prime minister of the self-declared Donetsk People’s Republic, Aleksandr Zakharchenko, on Monday. Afterward, Mr. Zakharchenko said the monitors had driven into a front-line area without a warning and ran into an exchange of fire between the two sides. “The place they were driving was in the middle of the front line,” he told journalists. “The Ukrainians fired, and we retaliated.”
周一，OSCE任务小组的领导人与自行宣布成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国的总理亚历山大· 扎哈尔琴科(Aleksandr Zakharchenko)举行会面。后来，扎哈尔琴科表示，观察员毫无征兆地驱车进入前线区域，碰到了双方交火的情况。“他们开车进入了前线的中间地带，”他告诉记者。“乌克兰人开火，我们予以回击。”
“We let them know in order for such problems not to occur, they need to inform us about their route,” he added.
他还表示，“为了避免此类问题的发生，我们告诉他们，他们需要将路线告知我们。”