BIRMINGHAM, England — Ukraine faces a stark choice. It can embrace modernity by signing an association agreement with the European Union. It can, instead, drift into obsolescence by signing on to Russia’s customs union.
英国伯明翰——乌克兰面临着一个非此即彼的选择。它要么与欧盟签订联合协议，向着现代化的方向走。要么加入俄罗斯关税同盟，从此陷入沉沦。
President Viktor Yanukovich has chosen the worst option. He has announced he will not sign an E.U. agreement at a summit meeting that begins Thursday in Vilnius, Lithuania, but without giving any clear sign of what he will do next. And Ukraine has begun paying the price.
乌克兰总统维克多·亚努科维奇(Viktor Yanukovich)选择了最糟糕的一条路。他宣布不会在周四的立陶宛维尔纽斯峰会上与欧盟签署协议，但又也没有明确表示他的下一步举措。乌克兰已经开始为此付出代价。
As news of Mr. Yanukovich’s decision became known, starting last week, hundreds of protesters pining for a future securely tied to the rest of Europe took to the streets of Kiev, the capital. The protests grew to tens of thousands over the weekend and spread to other cities; clashes with the police broke out. Opposition figures have called for Mr. Yanukovich’s impeachment, saying he bowed to pressure from Russia. The president, in turn, says that E.U. leaders failed to promise the financial help Ukraine would need to offset the costs of joining the Union.
从上周开始，亚努科维奇的决定逐渐传播开来，数百名渴望把乌克兰的未来与欧洲其他国家紧密联系在一起的抗议者走上了首都基辅的街头。周末，抗议规模扩大至数万人，蔓延到了其他城市，而且还与警方发生了冲突。反对派人士呼吁弹劾亚努科维奇，称他对俄罗斯的压力表示了屈服。但是，亚努科维奇却表示，欧盟领导人未能承诺给乌克兰提供经济援助，以帮助乌克兰冲抵投入欧盟的怀抱所需付出的代价。
Mr. Yanukovich has nobody but himself to blame for this mess. He has utterly failed to outline a plausible vision for his country. Joining the European Union would require political reform, expose Ukrainian companies to tough competition, and result in pressure from Russia, like higher costs for gas imports. But it would help Ukraine in the long run, by accelerating the process of democratization, improving the investment climate and strengthening economic competitiveness.
对于这种混乱局面，亚努科维奇要怪只能怪自己。他完全没能给乌克兰制定一个令人信服的发展计划。加入欧盟意味着乌克兰需要进行政治改革，乌克兰企业也会因此面临更激烈的竞争，而且还将面临来自俄罗斯的压力，如进口天然气的成本将会增加等等。但是，从长远来看，加入欧盟会给乌克兰带来好处，乌克兰将因此加快民主进程、改善投资环境并提高经济竞争力。
In contrast, the customs union that Russia is promoting promises an immediate bonanza — lower gas prices, a reduction in tariffs and access to a free trade area covering much of what was the Soviet Union — but one that is ultimately ephemeral. The promise is hollow because the current high gas prices and trade restrictions are simply part of Vladimir Putin’s efforts to pressure Ukraine into not choosing the European Union.
相形之下，俄罗斯所宣扬的关税同盟则承诺给乌克兰带来现成的甜头——降低天然气价格、削减关税，并允许乌克兰进入覆盖了大部分前苏联地区的自由贸易区——但这种好处必定是暂时的。之所以说俄罗斯的承诺不太可靠，是因为目前天然气的高昂价格和贸易限制只是弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)为了迫使乌克兰不选择欧盟而采取的措施。
If Ukraine succumbs, there is no guarantee that Mr. Putin will keep prices low in the long run. Moreover, joining Russia’s customs union would most likely lock Ukraine into an economic system based on crony capitalism and political favoritism.
即使乌克兰做出让步，也未必能保证普京会长期保持天然气的低价。此外，加入俄罗斯关税同盟很可能会让乌克兰被拴在一个以裙带资本主义和政治偏袒为基础的经济体系里。
Sadly, Ukraine appears to lack the leadership to choose the bold and farsighted course. Its political elites seem interested only in accumulating wealth. Since Mr. Yanukovich became president in 2010, his relatives have made extraordinary financial gains, even as his administration has demonstrated a striking lack of ambition and direction in world affairs.
不幸的是，乌克兰的领导者看来没有能力做出大胆而富有远见的选择。政治权贵似乎只对积累财富感兴趣。自亚努科维奇2010年担任总统以来，他的亲属获得了极大的经济利益，但他的政府在国际事务上却惊人地缺乏抱负和方向。
This is utterly unlike what has happened in Ukraine’s two most important neighbors. Since the Soviet bloc collapsed, Poland, to the west, has cherished an unambiguous vision — to regain its legitimate place in the family of European nations. Its political elites, despite vast ideological differences, have been united on this, and enjoy firm popular support. They have not wavered under the pressures that have come with reorienting trade from the East to the West, coping with competition from other European businesses, and accepting the European Union’s tough membership requirements. Joining the first rank of European powers has remained Poland’s primary goal.
乌克兰的两个最重要的邻国的情况却截然不同。自苏联解体以后，西面的波兰一直怀揣着一个清晰的目标——重新建立起作为欧洲国家的体面身份。虽然波兰政治精英在意识形态方面存在明显分歧，但他们在这一点上达成了一致，并且获得了民众的坚定支持。虽然面临着种种压力，比如要把贸易重心从东方转移到西方、应对来自其他欧洲企业的竞争，以及接受欧盟成员国的严格要求等，他们从未动摇。进入欧洲强国的最高层一直是波兰的首要目标。
To the east, meanwhile, Russia has been equally relentless in its own goal of being respected and feared as a great power with global reach and ambitions, one that can fulfill the heroic responsibilities that Russia’s leaders believe are part of its destiny. To the extent that Mr. Putin’s authoritarian rule has been successful, it’s because he embodies that vision.
与此同时，东面的俄罗斯也同样不懈地追求自身的目标，那就是要作为一个拥有全球影响力与雄心的大国受到尊重与敬畏，从而可以履行一种英雄式的职责，俄罗斯的领导人相信，这种职责国家宿命的一部分。在某种程度上，普京的威权统治一直是成功的，因为他象征着这一愿景。
And Ukraine? The only vision its leadership seems to possess is the desire to maintain its power at all costs. The clearest evidence is the selective justice used against the former prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko, the biggest threat to the incumbent president. She is in jail on charges that seem blatantly political.
那么，乌克兰呢？领导层拥有的唯一愿景似乎是不惜一切代价保住自身权力。最明显的例子就是对前总理尤利娅·季莫申科(Yulia Tymoshenko)——现任总统最大的威胁——的选择性执法。使她身陷囹圄的罪名看上去有着露骨的政治色彩。
In defiance of the European Union’s demand that she be released, Mr. Yanukovich has kept her behind bars. Now she has now announced she is on a hunger strike in solidarity with the protesters. On his website, meanwhile, Mr. Yanukovich has posted a message of platitudes to the Ukrainian people.
亚努科维奇拒绝了欧盟提出的释放要求，一直把她关在狱中。现在她已经宣布绝食声援抗议者。与此同时，在总统的网站上，亚努科维奇张贴了一通写给乌克兰民众的陈词滥调。
As the world around it adapts, and as its own people march in the streets, Ukraine’s leaders are looking inward and stuck in the past. At best, this approach might allow the country to survive from year to year. At worst, it puts Ukraine’s future at the mercy of external forces.
周边的世界正在适应变化，自己的民众正在走上街头，但乌克兰的领导者拒绝放眼世界，死守着过去不放。这样的做法，最好的结果就是让乌克兰能再苟延残喘个几年。最糟的情况，它将使乌克兰的未来听任外部势力的摆布。
This is all the more galling in light of the country’s potential: its geographical location, resources, size, transportation networks, human capital, historical ties and culture all could make Ukraine a significant player in world affairs. Instead, its influence is marginal at best.
想到乌克兰的潜力，就让人更是怒火中烧：乌克兰的地理位置、资源、规模、交通网络、人力资源、历史传承与文化，都本可以使它成为国际事务中的一股重要势力。结果，它的影响力却至多只能算在边缘状态。
It’s true that Ukraine is divided by language, ethnicity, religion, culture and history. The struggle for a unifying identity that Ukrainians may share is longstanding. But that will remain true as long as the political elite cannot see beyond its immediate self-interest. In the meantime, the country is not only falling behind in the global race for prosperity and influence, but risks being overwhelmed by the forces gathered at its borders.
诚然，乌克兰因语言、族裔、宗教、文化与历史而有着种种内部分歧。为寻找一个乌克兰人身份认同而进行的争斗旷日持久。然而，要是政治权贵不能超越自身的眼前利益，这种情况就会一直延续下去。与此同时，乌克兰将不仅在经济繁荣与政治影响力的全球竞争中落后，还面临被边境线外各种势力压倒的威胁。
The time for bargaining and brinkmanship has passed. If Mr. Yanukovich is to deliver a more prosperous future for Ukraine, and pacify its increasingly restless people, he needs to go to Vilnius committed to signing the European Union association agreement. Anything else is a betrayal of the hopes of a nation.
讨价还价与边缘政策的时机已经过去。如果亚努科维奇要给乌克兰一个更繁荣的未来，要安抚日益躁动的民众，他应该履行承诺，去维尔纽斯签署欧盟关联协议。其他任何做法都是对举国希望的背叛。