MOSCOW — With a Russian-backed separatist insurgency still gripping eastern Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament voted on Tuesday to take steps toward joining NATO. It was a pointed rebuke to Russia that immediately drew an angry response.
莫斯科——获得俄罗斯支持的分裂主义叛乱活动仍在乌克兰东部上演，而乌克兰议会于周二进行投票，为加入北约(NATO)做准备。此举相当于对俄罗斯的尖锐指责，立即引发了愤怒回应。
The Parliament, firmly controlled by a pro-Western majority, voted overwhelmingly 303 to 8, to repeal a 2010 law that codified a policy of “nonalignment,” and to instead pursue closer military and strategic ties with the West.
由亲西方的多数党控制的议会以303比8的压倒性结果，同意撤销2010年通过的包含“不结盟”政策的法案，转而寻求与西方建立更为紧密的军事及战略关系。
Former President Viktor F. Yanukovych, who was toppled in February after months of huge street protests in Kiev, the capital, pushed through the 2010 law shortly after he took office. Mr. Yanukovych fled to Russia after he lost power.
前总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)在上任后不久就推动该法案获得通过。在乌克兰首都基辅爆发的大规模街头抗议活动持续了几个月后，亚努科维奇于今年2月被推翻，他在失去权力后逃至俄罗斯。
The 2010 law defined nonalignment as “nonparticipation of Ukraine in the military-political alliances.”
2010年的法案阐明，不结盟意味着“乌克兰不会参与军事政治联盟”。
The revised law, which was a priority of President Petro O. Poroshenko, requires Ukraine to “deepen cooperation with NATO in order to achieve the criteria required for membership in this organization.” For now, it still seems unlikely that Ukraine will join NATO, in part because of Russia’s strong opposition.
修订该法案是乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)的首要任务，新法案要求乌克兰“深化与北约的合作，以便达到加入北约的标准”。目前，乌克兰似乎不太可能加入北约，这部分是因为此举遭到俄罗斯的强烈反对。
Russia has denied repeatedly that it set off the separatist violence in eastern Ukraine, but in recent months it has also made clear that preventing Ukraine from seeking NATO membership is one of its top goals. In November, President Vladimir V. Putin’s personal spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, told the BBC: “We would like to hear a 100 percent guarantee that no one would think about Ukraine’s joining NATO.”
俄罗斯多次否认俄方在乌克兰东部引发了分裂分子暴力活动，但最近几个月也表明，阻止乌克兰加入北约是俄罗斯的首要目标之一。今年11月，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)告诉BBC，“我们希望听到100%的保证，没有人会考虑让乌克兰加入北约的问题。”
Speaking to reporters in Moscow on Tuesday, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, sharply criticized the Ukrainian Parliament’s move. “This is counterproductive,” Mr. Lavrov said. “It only pumps up confrontation, and creates the illusion that by passing such laws it is possible to settle a deep domestic crisis within Ukraine.”
俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)周二在莫斯科接受记者采访时对乌克兰议会的举措提出尖锐批评。“此举只会适得其反，”拉夫罗夫说。“加剧对抗，并且制造出一种幻觉，即乌克兰国内严重的危机可以通过这样一个法案得到解决。”
Repeating Russia’s longstanding contention that Mr. Yanukovych was ousted in an unconstitutional overthrow, Mr. Lavrov added: “A much more productive and sensible path is to start at last a dialogue with that part of their own people, which has been completely ignored since the state coup was carried out. There is no other way. Only constitutional reform, with participation of all regions and political forces of Ukraine, can give a correct tone.”
拉夫罗夫重申了俄罗斯长期以来的观点，即推翻亚努科维奇属于违宪行为。拉夫罗夫还表示，“一个更有效、更明智的方式就是，与在政变中被完全忽略的本国另一部分人民开始一场迟来的对话。没有其他方法。只有乌克兰所有地区、所有政治力量参与宪法改革，才能创造正确的气氛。”