BRUSSELS — As it pushed efforts to coalesce around tougher sanctions against Russia, the European Union on Thursday was preparing to draw up lists of oligarchs close to President Vladimir V. Putin, working out how it could limit Russian access to European financial markets and studying the risk that Russia would respond by limiting Europe’s energy supplies.
布鲁塞尔——欧洲联盟(European Union)正在努力联合各方对俄罗斯施加更为严厉的制裁。周四时，欧盟正在准备列出与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)关系密切的寡头的名单，研究如何阻止俄罗斯进入欧洲金融市场，研究俄罗斯以削减对欧能源供应作为回应的风险。
But hanging over the talks was a bigger question: Can the 28-member bloc reconcile competing national interests, directly confront a conflict on its own borders and prove that it has a meaningful and united role to play in foreign policy?
但会谈面临一个更严重的问题：这个28国集团能够调和相互冲突的国家利益，直接面对紧邻边境的危机，从而证明欧盟在外交政策方面，能够团结一致地发挥重要作用吗？
More than any other recent crisis, the Russian incursion into Ukraine and all that has followed, including the downing last week of a Malaysia Airlines passenger jet over territory in eastern Ukraine controlled by pro-Russia separatists, has highlighted the glacial pace of decision making within the European Union. And it has given impatient critics, in the United States and elsewhere, additional reason to complain that the union is unwilling to take strong stands even when confronted with a clear case for action. The European bureaucracy ground forward a bit on Thursday, as ambassadors from the member nations met to draw up a list of Russian individuals, companies and entities to be named on Friday as targets of a new round of sanctions. The entities were likely to include the self-declared republics of Donetsk and Luhansk in eastern Ukraine, and the individuals would probably include additional members of the Security Council of Russia, according to E.U. officials.
俄罗斯插手乌克兰以及之后发生的事件，包括马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)一架客机上周在乌克兰东部由亲俄分裂分子控制的地区被击落的事件，比近年来发生的其他危机，都更能突显出欧盟在决策方面的迟缓。这种局面还给美国及其他国家早已不耐烦的批评人士提供了更多口实，抱怨欧盟即使有明确的理由采取行动，也不原意采取强硬立场。欧盟官僚机构周四蹭出了一小步，成员国的代表们举行会晤，要列出了一份俄罗斯个人、公司和实体的清单，作为新一轮制裁的目标，欧盟准备在周五公布这些名单。欧盟官员透露，这些实体可能包括乌克兰东部自行宣布成立的顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克两个人民共和国，个人名单可能包括俄罗斯联邦安全会议(Security Council of Russia)的其他成员。
The ambassadors were also discussing ways of identifying targets of potential sanctions among oligarchs who are members of Mr. Putin’s inner circle, but officials said those names still needed to be agreed on, a step that could be taken next week. At the same time, officials from the policy-making European Commission sent the bloc’s member governments a road map for even broader sanctions, eagerly awaited by the Obama administration, that could target entire sectors of the Russian economy — like restricting Europeans from doing business with Russian-controlled banks, limiting sales of technologies and materials needed for its crucial energy industry and restricting the sale of equipment that could have military uses. Such sweeping measures would be available as a response from Europe if Moscow blocks independent inquiries into the downing of the Malaysian plane and fails to prevent arms supplies across its border with Ukraine.
代表们还在讨论如何确定寡头中的潜在制裁目标，这些寡头与普京关系紧密。但官员们表示，名单仍需商讨确定，这个步骤可能下周才能完成。与此同时，负责决策的欧盟委员会(European Commission)给欧盟成员国政府发放了一份有关更广泛制裁的路线图，可能涉及俄罗斯经济的所有领域——比如限制欧洲人与俄罗斯控制的银行开展业务，限制向俄罗斯销售关键的能源行业所需的技术和材料，并限制销售可能有军事用途的设备。奥巴马政府热切盼望着欧盟能采取这些举措。如果莫斯科阻碍相关方面对马航飞机被击落事件开展独立调查，继续越过边境向乌克兰输送武器，欧盟可能就会采取上述一系列举措。
The outcome of the effort to marshal a more muscular response is still unclear. With the 28 members having often-divergent economic and diplomatic interests — and most likely willing to pay different prices for collective action — even agreement on the ground rules for the sector-wide sanctions could require a further summit meeting of European leaders in Brussels next week.
目前尚不清楚，推动更强硬回应的这些举措会取得怎样的结果。由于欧盟28个成员国的经济和外交利益通常存在分歧，而且各国愿意为集体行动付出的代价也各不相同。哪怕只是为了取得共识，确定采取全行业的制裁时应当遵守怎样的规则，可能都需要欧盟领导人下周再在布鲁塞尔召开一次峰会。
“The great difficulty for the E.U. acting collectively against Russia is a triple lockout,” Mujtaba Rahman, the director for Europe of the Eurasia Group, a political risk consulting firm, said in a telephone interview. “The Germans don’t want to jeopardize their energy interests, the French don’t want to risk their military sales, and the British don’t want to go too hard on Russian financial interests.”
“对欧盟来说，要想采取集体行动对付俄罗斯，需要面对三重障碍，”政治风险咨询公司欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)的欧洲事务负责人穆杰塔巴·拉赫曼(Mujtaba Rahman)在电话采访中说。“德国不想损害自己的能源利益，法国不想拿军售冒险，英国不想过于严厉地打击俄罗斯的金融利益。”
The bloc’s indecision over the projection of power beyond its borders as it confronts a resurgent Russia has been illustrated by its inability to choose a successor to its foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, whose term expires at the end of October.
欧盟现任外交事务负责人凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)的任期将于10月底结束，然而欧盟却无法挑选出一个继任者。欧盟的这种无能为力，也诠释了它面对着重新兴起的俄罗斯，为什么会对在欧盟版图之外运用实力显得犹豫不决。
At a summit meeting on July 16, an attempt by Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, to secure the job for his own foreign minister, Federica Mogherini, foundered on concerns that she may be too conciliatory toward Russia. The leaders handled the deadlock in time-honored European fashion: by scheduling another meeting for Aug. 30.
在今年7月16日的峰会上，意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)努力推举他手下的外长费德丽卡·莫盖里尼(Federica Mogherini)担任阿什顿的继任者。不过，由于各国担忧她对俄罗斯的态度可能会过于温和，伦齐的努力以失败告终。这些领导人用欧洲久负盛名的手法处理了这个僵局，那就是在8月30日再安排一次会议。
For all that, the United States, which has expressed frustration with the sluggish response from Europe to Russia’s involvement in Ukraine, suggested this week that it perceived a new willingness among its European allies to make hard economic choices. And in a statement on Tuesday, the State Department effectively put the bloc on notice that Washington was expecting tangible results.
欧洲对俄罗斯插手乌克兰现状的反应过于迟缓，美国此前已经表达了失望。尽管如此，美国还是在本周表示，感觉欧洲盟友表现出了做出艰难经济抉择的新意愿。在周二的一则声明中，美国国务院(State Department)实际上提醒欧盟，华盛顿期望看到实实在在的结果。
According to its latest figures, the European Union is Russia’s single biggest trade partner, while Russia ranks as the union’s third largest.
根据欧盟的最新数据，欧盟是俄罗斯最大的贸易伙伴，俄罗斯则是欧盟的第三大贸易伙伴。
A web of business deals between European Union nations and Russia, moreover, encompasses everything from German machine tools and autos, to luxury Italian leatherwear and the disputed French commitment to supply the Russian navy with two advanced Mistral-class warships. French and British banks have lent substantial sums to Russian companies. And, as French officials have taken to pointing out in recent days, many superrich Russian oligarchs own homes and even soccer teams in Britain.
不仅如此，欧盟各成员国和俄罗斯之间的商业交易网无所不包，有德国的机床和汽车、有意大利的奢侈皮衣，还有法国承诺向俄罗斯海军提供的两艘“米斯特拉尔”级(Mistral-class)先进战舰（法国出售战舰的举动引起了争议）。法国和英国银行向俄罗斯企业提供了大笔贷款。而且，正如法国官员最近指出的，许多富可敌国的俄罗斯寡头都在英国拥有房产，甚至是足球队。
The interdependence has heightened concerns among some Europeans that punitive measures against Russia could easily boomerang.
这种相互依存的状态加深了一些欧洲人的担忧，他们担心对俄罗斯采取惩罚措施，很容易会让欧洲自食其果。