MOSCOW — Ukrainian officials acknowledged on Thursday that they had relinquished to rebel forces control over the terminal of the airport in Donetsk, while artillery fire gutted a trolley bus in the embattled city, killing at least eight people, and evidence emerged of a growing Russian military role in the area.
莫斯科——乌克兰官员周四承认，叛军从政府军手中夺去了顿涅茨克机场航站楼的控制权，在受到围困的顿涅茨克市内，炮火摧毁了一辆无轨电车，导致至少八人死亡，此外有证据显示，俄罗斯军方在该地区的影响越来越大。
The airport, the scene of fierce battles in recent days, is nonfunctional, the terminal and runways having been destroyed months ago. Nonetheless, it has retained high symbolic value in the ongoing hostilities as the government’s last toehold in the city, the largest in the contested territory of southeastern Ukraine.
近些天一直上演着激战的这座机场早已无法使用，航站楼和跑道已在数月前被毁。然而，在依然持续的战争中，它是政府军在该市最后的立足点，因而具有较高的象征意义。顿涅茨克是乌克兰东南部爆发冲突的地区最大的城市。
At a news briefing in Kiev on Thursday, a Ukrainian military spokesman, Vladyslav Seleznyov, said that six soldiers had died in the fighting over the airport and 16 had been captured by forces of the self-declared Donetsk People’s Republic before a decision was made to withdraw from the ruined terminal.
周四，乌克兰军方发言人弗拉迪斯拉夫·谢列兹尼奥夫(Vladyslav Seleznyov)在基辅举行的新闻发布会上表示，在争夺该机场的战斗中，六名士兵战死，16人被自行宣告成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国的军队俘虏，之后政府军才决定撤离已损毁的航站楼。
“Because of the constant shelling, the new terminal has been ruined almost entirely,” Mr. Seleznyov said. “Because this building has been destroyed completely, the decision was made to withdraw Ukrainian fighters from this building to new lines.”
“因为持续不断的炮轰，新航站楼已几乎全部被毁，”谢列兹尼奥夫说。“因为建筑已彻底被毁，所以决定将乌克兰作战人员撤离该楼，派往新的战线。”
Another spokesman, Col. Andriy Lysenko, said that even as Ukrainian forces withdrew from the terminal building, they remained in possession of the airport’s control tower and runway.
另一名发言人安德里·李森科上校(Andriy Lysenko)表示，在撤离航站楼大楼时，乌克兰政府军队依然控制着机场的塔台和跑道。
The renewed violence, in Donetsk and at a remote checkpoint north of Luhansk, another major separatist-held city, as well as reports of new movement by Russian troops, threatened to plunge the region into ever-deepening chaos.
在顿涅茨克，以及由分裂分子控制的另一座主要城市卢甘斯克以北的一处偏远哨卡处，再次爆发了暴力冲突。同时，有报道称俄军出现了新动向。这些都可能令该地区陷入日益加剧的混乱。
At a briefing on Thursday afternoon, Colonel Lysenko said that Ukrainian intelligence services had documented a significant new mobilization of Russian military vehicles in the Rostov region, on the Russian side of the border, including BMD airborne infantry combat vehicles, armored personnel carriers, tanks, propelled artillery systems, mobile rocket launchers, fuel vehicles and cargo trucks.
在周四下午的发布会上，李森科表示，乌克兰情报机构已证实，在乌俄边境俄罗斯一侧的罗斯托夫地区，出现了军用车辆大规模调动的新情况，其中包括BMD空降步兵作战车、装甲运兵车、坦克、自行火炮系统、移动火箭发射装置、燃料车和载重汽车。
“A majority of the vehicles do not bear insignia, side markings or license plates,” Mr. Lysenko said.
“大部分车辆都没有军徽、侧面标识或号牌，”李森科说。
Reports of a military mobilization on the Russian side of the border were confirmed by some Russian news agencies. The Russian military has not announced any recent training exercises, its previously justification for similar movement of troops and vehicles along the border.
乌俄边境俄罗斯一侧有军事活动的报道，得到了俄罗斯一些新闻机构的证实。俄罗斯军方未曾宣布近期要开展演练。此前在边界附近进行类似的人员和车辆调遣时，俄罗斯会使用这种理由。
In Brussels, NATO’s top commander in Europe, Gen. Philip Breedlove, told a news conference that Russian electronic warfare and air defense systems have been observed in eastern Ukraine, a sign based on past experience of a Russian military incursion.
在布鲁塞尔，北约(NATO)在欧洲的最高指挥官菲利普·M·布里德洛夫上将(Philip M. Breedlove)在一场新闻发布会上说，在乌克兰东部观察到了俄罗斯的电子战装置和防空系统，根据以往的经验，这预示着俄罗斯将发动军事入侵。
As details of the bus bombing, the second this month in the area, began to emerge, pro-Russian separatist leaders and senior Ukrainian government officials quickly traded accusations over who was responsible.
电车被炸毁一事，是该地区本月第二起同类事件。随着事件的细节浮出水面，亲俄的分裂派领导人和乌克兰政府高级官员很快开始指责，对方应对此事负责。
Photographs showed a horrific scene of blood and shattered glass, and witnesses reported that mangled bodies were splayed across the seats. There were conflicting reports of up to 13 people killed.
一些照片展示了鲜血和碎玻璃混杂在一起的恐怖景象。目击者称，座位上到处是破碎的尸体。关于遇难人数有一些相互矛盾的说法，最高的数字是13人。
A doctor at the main hospital in Donetsk, interviewed on the Rossiya 24 television channel, said that nine people had been brought in with injuries from the bus bombing, and that five were in grave condition. In unusually graphic footage, Rossiya 24 showed dead passengers throughout the shattered vehicle as well as a burned body being removed from a passenger car that was also destroyed by the shelling.
顿涅茨克主要医院的一名医生在接受俄罗斯24电视台(Rossiya 24)采访时说，从电车的爆炸现场送来了九名伤者，其中五人伤势严重。俄罗斯24电视台用触目惊心的画面展示了汽车残骸上的死亡乘客，以及将一具烧焦的遗体从一辆轿车中移走的情景，那辆轿车也在袭击中被毁。
Prime Minister Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, speaking to reporters in Kiev, the capital, said, “Today, Russian terrorists once again committed a terrible act against humanity, and the Russian Federation bears responsibility for that.”
乌克兰总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)在首都基辅对记者说，“今天，俄罗斯恐怖分子又一次实施了反人类的恐怖行径，俄罗斯联邦对此负有责任。”
The Ukrainian Defense Ministry issued a statement saying that the shelling of the bus occurred at a location more than 10 miles from Ukrainian military positions and that “all facts” pointed to separatist forces as responsible.
乌克兰国防部发表声明称，电车的爆炸地点与乌军位置相距超过十英里，“所有事实”都表明，分裂势力应对爆炸负责。