GENEVA — The United Nations said on Monday that a sharp escalation in recent fighting in eastern Ukraine had left more than 800 people dead and over 3,400 wounded, with hundreds missing and many buried without their deaths being recorded.
日内瓦——联合国周一表示，乌克兰东部战事最近急剧升级，已导致800多人死亡，超过3400人受伤，数百人失踪，还有许多死者没有登记，但尸体已经被掩埋。
Ivan Simonovic, the United Nations assistant secretary general, told reporters here that more than 6,000 people had been killed since the fighting started in April — at least 842 of whom died from mid-January to the middle of last month.
联合国助理秘书长伊万·西蒙诺维奇(Ivan Simonovic)对记者称，自去年4月冲突爆发以来，已有超过6000人死亡——其中至少842人死于1月中旬到上月中旬之间。
The casualty figures were included in a United Nations report issued on Monday that also said an influx of troops and heavy weapons from Russia had intensified the conflict in Ukraine.
这些伤亡数字被收录在周一出版的一份联合国报告中。报告还说，从俄罗斯流入的士兵和重型武器令乌克兰的冲突进一步恶化。
“Credible reports indicate a continuing influx of heavy and sophisticated weaponry to armed groups in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, as well as foreign fighters, including from the Russian Federation,” the United Nations report said.
“一些可靠的报告显示，有人持续向顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克地区的武装团体输送先进的重型武器，以及外国士兵，包括来自俄罗斯联邦的士兵，”这份联合国报告称。
“This has fueled the escalation of the conflict and new offensives by armed groups, undermining the potential for peace as armed groups extend their areas of control,” the report said. “This has resulted in further and significant increases in civilian and military casualties.”
“这助推了冲突的升级，并激发了武装组织的新攻势，随着武装组织控制区域的扩大，和平的希望愈发渺茫，”报告称，“这已经导致平民和士兵的伤亡人数出现进一步的大幅增长。”
The report was issued as Secretary of State John Kerry met with his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, in Switzerland to discuss the crisis in Ukraine.
这份报告发布的同时，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)与俄罗斯的同级别官员谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)在瑞士举行了会晤，共同探讨乌克兰危机。
Mr. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said in a speech to the Human Rights Council here in Geneva that the cease-fire in Ukraine was being “consolidated” and that any decision by Western nations to send arms to Ukraine would “disrupt the peace.”
俄罗斯外长拉夫罗夫在日内瓦的联合国人权理事会(Human Rights Council)上发表演讲时表示，乌克兰的停火状态正在得到“巩固”，西方国家任何旨在向乌克兰输送武器的决定，都将“打破现有的和平”。
The Obama administration has been considering whether to send arms to Ukraine to deter Russian-backed separatists and Russian troops from further advances, though the White House appears to have put off a decision in recent weeks.
奥巴马政府一直在考虑是否向乌克兰输送武器，从而防止俄罗斯支持的分裂势力和俄罗斯部队取得更多进展，不过白宫把做出该决定的时间推迟到了几周之后。
Mr. Kerry said that to avoid further sanctions, Russia must arrange for the separatists to relax their grip on the strategically important town of Debaltseve, which they seized soon after a cease-fire reached last month in Minsk, Belarus, went into effect.
克里称，要想避免进一步的制裁，俄罗斯必须让分裂势力放松对战略重镇德巴泽维(Debaltseve)的控制。上个月在白俄罗斯明斯克达成的停火协议生效后不久，分裂势力夺取了该镇。
“There has been a kind of cherry picking” by the Russians about what elements of the cease-fire to honor, Mr. Kerry told reporters at a news conference on Monday. “There is not yet a full cease-fire.”
在停火协议的遵守上，俄罗斯“似乎在挑挑拣拣”，克里周一在新闻发布会上告诉记者。“目前并没有实现彻底的停火。”
Mr. Kerry said that he had raised his concerns about the seizing of Debaltseve and the presence of Russian-backed separatists near the port city of Mariupol during his morning meeting here with Mr. Lavrov.
克里称，上午在这里与拉夫罗夫会面时，对于德巴泽维被占领，以及俄罗斯支持的分裂势力出现在港口城市马留波尔附近，他表达了自己的关切。
A rocket attack on Mariupol at the end of January killed 31 people, according to Mr. Simonovic, citing an example from the United Nations report of the growing use of heavy weapons by all sides and indiscriminate shelling of civilian areas.
西蒙诺维奇说，1月底针对马留波尔的火箭弹袭击导致31人死亡。这是联合国报告中的一个例子，用以证明各方都在越来越多地使用重型武器，且任意轰炸平民地区。
The report also drew attention to the plight of civilians in areas of conflict, saying that attempted evacuations in government-controlled areas had apparently been targeted by shelling. But travel restrictions imposed by the government in Kiev had also made it harder for civilians to escape conflict areas, the United Nations said.
报告还强调了冲突地区平民所遭受的苦难，称在政府控制的地区，一些尝试撤离的人群似乎成了炮击的目标。联合国称，基辅政府设置的旅行限制让平民更加难以逃离冲突地区。
More than 400 civilians continue to be held prisoner by pro-Russian armed groups, the United Nations monitors reported, noting that an “all for all” prisoner exchange included in the cease-fire agreement signed last month had not been fully enacted. The report also cited “a pattern of enforced disappearances, secret detention and ill treatment by Ukrainian law enforcement agencies.”
联合国的观察员们报告称，仍有超过400名平民被亲俄武装团体扣押。他们指出，上个月签署的停火协议中的一项“全数交换”战俘计划，没有得到充分执行。报告还提到，“乌克兰执法机构普遍存在强制失踪、秘密拘禁和虐待的做法。”
Mr. Kerry said that his Russian counterpart had insisted that the Kremlin intended to honor the cease-fire agreement and would respond to the points the United States had raised.
克里表示，拉夫罗夫坚称，克里姆林宫打算履行停火协议，并将对美国提出的几点内容做出回应。