MOSCOW — Under the attentive eye of Russian state television, several hundred pro-Russian demonstrators in the city of Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine, declared on Monday that they were forming an independent republic and urged President Vladimir V. Putin to send troops to the region as a peacekeeping force, even though there was no imminent threat to peace.
莫斯科——周一，在俄罗斯国家电视台的密切关注下，东乌克兰城市顿涅茨克的几百名亲俄示威者宣布他们将成立一个独立共和国，并呼吁弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统向该地区派驻军队充当维和部队，尽管目前的局势还没有对该地区的和平造成威胁。
The actions in Donetsk and two other main cities in eastern Ukraine, which included demands for a referendum on seceding from Ukraine and joining Russia, seemed an effort by the activists to mimic some of the events that preceded Russia’s invasion and annexation of Crimea. However, there were no immediate indications that the Kremlin was receptive to the pleas.
东乌克兰其他两个主要城市也爆发示威活动，要求就脱离乌克兰、加入俄罗斯举行公投。顿涅茨克及其他两个城市的示威活动似乎是由活动人士发起的，他们效仿了俄罗斯入侵、吞并克里米亚之前的事件。然而，目前没有直接迹象显示克里姆林宫(Kremlin)会接受这些请求。
While widely regarded as political theater supported if not directed by the Kremlin, the protests could help promote what analysts say is Russia’s primary goal of destabilizing the shaky government in Kiev, preventing it from drifting further into the West’s orbit and giving Moscow leverage over the country’s future ahead of presidential elections in May.
人们普遍认为这些抗议活动就算不是克里姆林宫导演的，也是由它支持的政治戏剧，抗议活动能够帮助推动实现分析人士所说的俄罗斯的首要目标——破坏摇摇欲坠的基辅政府的稳定，阻止该政府进一步并入西方的轨道，促使莫斯科方面在5月的总统选举前，获得掌控乌克兰未来的影响力。
The turmoil in eastern Ukraine also makes it extremely difficult for the provisional government in Kiev to begin putting in place an array of austerity measures and financial overhauls required by the International Monetary Fund as a condition for an $18 billion loan package that the country desperately needs to avert a financial default.
国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)要求基辅临时政府采取一系列紧缩及金融改革措施，以此作为获得180亿美元（约合1118亿元人民币）贷款的条件，乌克兰急需这笔资金以避免出现财政违约。但东乌克兰的动乱致使措施的落实变得极为困难。
The protesters themselves may be trying to provoke a violent response from Kiev, analysts say, hoping to provide the pretext for a Crimea-like military incursion in a country that Moscow considers an integral part of historical Russia.
分析人士表示，抗议者本身或许是在设法刺激基辅方面做出暴力回应，希望为对这个国家进行克里米亚式的军事入侵提供借口，莫斯科方面认为乌克兰在历史上是俄罗斯必不可少的一部分。
The Ukrainian authorities seemed to be responding cautiously, but made several enforcement efforts throughout Monday night. In Kharkiv, they expelled demonstrators from the regional administration building, which was then briefly set ablaze as protesters threw firebombs. The first was extinguished, but at least two people were injured in clashes with the police outside the building, local news agencies reported.
乌克兰当局似乎正在谨慎应对，但政府在周一晚间采取了几项强制措施。在哈尔科夫，他们将示威者从州政府大楼驱离，当时，抗议者投掷燃烧弹，一度引发大楼火灾。当地新闻机构报道称，第一场火已被扑灭，但至少有两人在政府大楼外与警方发生冲突时受伤。
In Donetsk, the authorities were able to retake control of the headquarters of the security services, but remained in a standoff with demonstrators occupying the regional administration building. Several thousand people remained on the streets early Tuesday morning, and tension remained high across the region, with a continuing risk of violence.
在顿涅茨克，政府能够重新夺回对安全机构总部的控制权，但依然与占领州政府大楼的示威者保持对峙。周二清晨，仍有数千人坚守街头，该地区的形势依然高度紧张，存在暴力风险。
In recognition of the potential dangers, Secretary of State John Kerry told the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, in a phone call on Monday that there would be “further costs” if Russia took additional steps to destabilize Ukraine, the State Department said.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)承认存在潜在危险，美国国务院(State Department)称他在周一与俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V.Lavrov)通电话时表示，如果采取进一步的行动破坏乌克兰的稳定，俄罗斯会付出“更多代价”。
Mr. Kerry said in the call that the United States was monitoring with growing concern the pro-Russia protests in Donetsk, Kharkiv, Luhansk and Mariupol, and did not believe they were a “spontaneous set of events,” said Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman.
国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)称，克里在电话中表示，美国国务院正在关注顿涅茨克、哈尔科夫、卢汉斯克及马里乌波尔的亲俄抗议活动，并且越来越担心，国务院认为这不是“一系列自发事件”。
“He noted in particular the recent arrests of Russian intelligence operatives working in Ukraine,” Ms. Psaki added.
普萨基还表示，“他特别指出了最近在乌克兰工作的俄罗斯情报人员被捕的情况。”
The Obama administration has warned Russia that it is prepared to impose additional sanctions if Russia intervenes militarily or covertly to undermine the new Ukrainian government, a point Mr. Kerry repeated on Monday.
奥巴马政府曾警告俄罗斯，如果俄罗斯进行军事或秘密干预，削弱乌克兰新政府的力量，美国准备施加额外制裁。克里在周一重申了这一点。
“He made clear that any further Russian effort to destabilize Ukraine will incur further costs for Russia,” Ms. Psaki said without providing details. Officials from the United States, Russia, Ukraine and the European Union are planning to meet in the next 10 days to discuss the situation in Ukraine, Ms. Psaki said.
普萨基说，“他清楚地表明，如果俄罗斯进一步采取举措破坏乌克兰的稳定，俄罗斯将付出更大代价。”但她没有提供细节。普萨基表示，美国、俄罗斯、乌克兰及欧盟的官员计划在未来十天举行会晤，探讨乌克兰局势。
NATO’s top commander, Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, said last week that the approximately 40,000 Russian troops near the Ukrainian border are capable of intervening in eastern Ukraine on 12 hours’ notice and could accomplish their military objectives in three to five days.
北约(NATO)最高指挥官菲利普·M·布里德洛夫(Philip M. Breedlove)上将上周表示，乌克兰边境约有四万名俄罗斯士兵，他们能够在接到命令后的12小时内入侵东乌克兰，而且能在三到五天内达到军事目的。
In Kiev on Monday morning, the acting prime minister, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, said, “There is a script being written in the Russian Federation, for which there is only one purpose: the dismemberment and destruction of Ukraine and the transformation of Ukraine into the territory of slavery under the dictates of Russia.”
周一上午，乌克兰代理总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)在基辅表示，“俄罗斯联邦(Russian Federation)正在编写剧本，目的只有一个：分离并毁灭乌克兰，将乌克兰转变成听任俄罗斯摆布的、受奴役的地区。”
Russian officials, including Mr. Lavrov, have said that they have no intention of taking military action in eastern Ukraine, and in a statement on Monday afternoon, the Russian Foreign Ministry reiterated its call for federalizing Ukraine, a move that would substantially weaken the government in Kiev, making it vulnerable to manipulation by Moscow.
拉夫罗夫等俄罗斯官员曾表示，他们不打算在东乌克兰采取军事行动，俄罗斯外交部在周一下午发表声明，再次呼吁促使乌克兰实现联邦化，此举会大幅削弱基辅政府的力量，使其易受莫斯科方面的操控。
“As the Russian side has noted repeatedly, it is difficult to count on a long-term stabilization of Ukraine without a real constitutional reform within the framework of which, through federalization, the interests of all regions would be ensured, its nonaligned status maintained and the special role of the Russian language reinforced,” the Foreign Ministry said.
俄罗斯外交部表示，“就像俄罗斯多次指出的那样，如果乌克兰不进行真正的宪法改革，并在此改革框架下，通过联邦化进程，保证乌克兰各地区的利益、保持不结盟政策并巩固俄语的特殊地位，乌克兰就难以实现国家的长期稳定。”
The Foreign Ministry denied any role in the unrest, even though the demonstrations on Sunday evening in Donetsk, Kharkiv and Luhansk seemed coordinated and bore the hallmarks of similar protests last month that were organized with support from Moscow.
俄罗斯外交部否认俄罗斯与动乱有关，但周日晚间发生在顿涅茨克、哈尔科夫和卢汉斯克的示威活动似乎是组织有序的，而且与上个月获得俄罗斯支持的抗议活动的特征类似。
“Stop pointing at Russia, blaming it for all the troubles of today’s Ukraine, the ministry said. “The Ukrainian people want to hear from Kiev, a clear answer to all the questions. It’s time to listen to these legitimate demands.”
“不要再指着俄罗斯，将今日乌克兰的所有问题归咎于俄罗斯，”俄外交部称，“乌克兰人民希望听到基辅政府对所有问题的明确回答。现在是时候倾听这些正当要求了。”
The events in the east unfolded just hours after a Ukrainian military officer was shot and killed in Crimea in a confrontation with Russian troops.
就在东乌克兰爆发示威活动的几个小时之前，一名乌克兰军官在克里米亚与俄罗斯士兵对抗时被射杀。