KIEV, Ukraine — Refusing to grant a central demand of protesters who have laid siege to public buildings and occupied a landmark plaza in this rattled capital, the Ukrainian Parliament on Tuesday defeated a measure calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Mykola Azarov and his government.
乌克兰基辅——周二，乌克兰国会拒绝满足示威民众的主要诉求，推翻了一项要求总理米克拉·阿扎罗夫(Mykola Azarov)和他领导的政府辞职的议案。连日来，示威者将政府建筑团团围住，还在为紧张气氛所笼罩的首都占据了一座地标性大厦。
The failure of the no-confidence vote pushed the battle for the future of Ukraine back onto the streets, where demonstrators and political opposition leaders allied with them say they would not relent until they succeeded in removing the government, including President Viktor F. Yanukovich.
不信任案在投票中未能获得通过，从而再一次将关涉乌克兰未来的斗争推回了街头。街头的示威者，以及与示威者立场一致的反对派政治领袖都宣称，不推翻包括总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovich)的现政府，就绝不罢休。
“Our demand is impeachment of the president and dismissal of the government,” said Oleksiy Ivannikov, 35, a construction engineer who was in a crowd of protesters with his friends. “I see no compromises here,” Mr. Ivannikov said. “How long should we go on compromising?”
今年35岁的建筑工程师奥列克西·伊万尼科夫(Oleksiy Ivannikov)和朋友们加入了示威的人群。他说，“我们的要求是弹劾总统，解散政府。”伊万尼科夫还说，“这一点没有妥协的余地，我们到底还要妥协多久？”
In response to Parliament’s refusal to act, demonstrators — who have already blockaded the Cabinet of Ministers building and seized City Hall — said they intended to close off access to the headquarters of the presidential administration, which is heavily guarded by riot police officers. They also plan to try to cordon off Parliament in a bid to paralyze the legislative and executive branches of government.
示威者已经在乌克兰内阁部长大楼前设置了路障，并占领了市政府。他们表示，为了回应国会拒绝行动的决定，打算阻断通往总统府的交通，而那里现有大量防暴警察把守。为了让政府的立法和行政分支陷于瘫痪，他们还计划封锁国会。
Leaders of the protest movement, a loose coalition the three main political opposition parties, civic organizations and student groups, said they were digging in for a long fight.
示威运动的领导者表示，他们会坚决地开展长期斗争。示威运动是由三个主要的反对派政党、公民组织，以及学生团体组成的松散联盟发起的。
Since the start of demonstrations on Nov. 22, many protesters, especially students, have been skeptical that elected officials would answer their demands, which were a response to Mr. Yanukovich’s decision not to sign far-reaching political and trade agreements with the European Union that had been in the works for years.
自从11月22日示威开始以来，许多示威者，尤其是学生，都怀疑民选的官员不会回应他们的诉求。人们之所以发动游行示威，是因为亚努科维奇决定，不与欧洲联盟签署影响深远的政治和贸易协议，尽管这些协议的制定过程已经持续了很多年。
Public anger deepened over brutal tactics used by riot police officers against protesters in Independence Square early Saturday — a display of violence that roused a march and rally by hundreds of thousands of people in Kiev on Sunday, and thousands more in cities around the country.
周六早上，由于防暴警察在基辅独立广场使用粗暴手法对付示威者，公众的愤怒情绪进一步升级。警察暴力促使数十万人周日在基辅举行游行和集会，在乌克兰其他城市也有成千上万人参加了游行。
In a speech to Parliament before Tuesday’s vote, Mr. Azarov once again apologized for the police violence on Saturday and said that an investigation was underway that would hold those responsible accountable. But he also warned that the authorities would answer any violence.
周二国会表决前，阿扎罗夫在国会发言时，再一次为警察周六采取暴力手段进行了道歉，并表示正在开展调查，会对责任人予以惩戒。但他也警告，官方也会对示威者的暴力行为予以回应。
“We are ready to discuss with peaceful manifestations all conditions of our agreements,” the prime minister said, as opposition lawmakers in the chamber pounded their desks and rendered him nearly inaudible with chants of “Resignation! Resignation!”
“我们乐于与和平的示威者讨论协议里的所有条件，”阿扎罗夫说。此时国会里的反对派议员拍着桌子高呼“辞职！辞职！”完全盖住了阿扎罗夫发言的音量。
“We will give you a hand,” Mr. Azarov said. “If we see a fist, we have enough force.”
“我们会向你们表达善意，”阿扎罗夫说，“可是如果我们看到有人动一个拳头，我们可是有足够的武力。”
The prime minister seemed to be suggesting new talks between the Ukrainian government and European leaders. But while European leaders say they remain open to signing the accords if Ukraine meets previously agreed-upon conditions, like an overhaul of its justice system, they are not willing to renegotiate.
乌克兰总理似乎是在说，乌克兰政府要与欧盟领导人开展新的谈判。尽管欧盟领导人表示，如果乌克兰满足过去达成一致的条件，如改革该国司法体系，欧盟仍然愿意签约，但是他们并不愿意重新谈判。
“The European Union is ready to discuss aspects of implementation of the agreement already initialed but not to reopen any kind of negotiations,” said Maja Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton.
欧盟外交政策负责人凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)的发言人玛雅·科斯亚奇克(Maja Kocijancic)说，“欧盟乐于就执行已经签署的协议，讨论各方面的问题，但是不会重新开展任何谈判，”
And in a signal of American unhappiness with Ukraine’s decision to distance itself from the European Union, Secretary of State John Kerry skipped a long- anticipated visit to Kiev that was to follow a meeting of NATO foreign ministers in Brussels. 
为了表示美国对乌克兰疏远欧洲的决定感到不满，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)参加完在比利时布鲁塞尔举行的北约(NATO)外长会议后，略过了人们期待已久的一次基辅之行。
Instead, Mr. Kerry on Wednesday will visit Moldova, a small nation that has pursued closer ties with the European Union in the face of intense pressure from Moscow.
周三，克里将访问摩尔多瓦。这个小国面对着俄罗斯的强烈压力，仍在寻求与欧盟建立更紧密的联系。
Mr. Kerry on Tuesday urged the Ukrainian government to “listen to the voices of its people” who favor closer ties with the union. He said Ukrainians should be allowed to make their own choice without “a bidding war.”
周二，克里敦促乌克兰政府“倾听民众的心声”，他们希望与欧盟建立更紧密的关系。他说，应当允许乌克兰民众自己做出选择，而不必进行一场“竞价大战”。
Mr. Yanukovich, however, has effectively shut the door to new talks over the agreements. In the days since he refused to sign them at a summit meeting in Vilnius, Lithuania, last week, he has turned forcefully toward Russia, which had exerted heavy pressure on him to derail the accords.
然而亚努科维奇实际上关闭了就协议开展新谈判的可能性。上周他在立陶宛维尔纽斯举行的一场峰会上拒绝签署协议，之后他已经坚定地转向了俄罗斯。俄罗斯向他施加了极大的压力，阻挠与欧盟的协议。
In an interview with Ukrainian television on Monday evening, Mr. Yanukovich said that he would begin working to extend a strategic partnership agreement first executed with Russia in 1997, and that he was close to securing lower natural gas prices from Russia. On Tuesday, officials said Russia had agreed to defer Ukraine’s payments for natural gas for several months.
周一晚上，在接受乌克兰电视采访时，亚努科维奇说，他将着手扩大跟俄罗斯之间的一个战略合作伙伴协议，该协议最初生效是在1997年，他还说，以较低价格从俄罗斯获得天然气的协商即将成功。周二，官员们说，俄罗斯已同意让乌克兰拖延支付天然气款项数个月。
European leaders have said they would not participate in three-way negotiations with Russia, as Mr. Yanukovich has proposed.
欧洲的领导者已经表示，他们不会参加亚努科维奇提出的跟俄罗斯进行的三方谈判。
On Tuesday, as Mr. Yanukovich flew to China to attend business development meetings, opposition lawmakers continued to call for his ouster.
周二，当亚努科维奇飞赴中国参加商业发展会议时，反对派议员继续要求他下台。
“We demand the resignation of the government, the president and the minister of internal affairs,” Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, the leader of the opposition Fatherland coalition, said in Parliament.
“我们要求政府、总统和内政部长下台，”反对党祖国联盟(Fatherland coalition)的领导人阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)在国会说。
Thousands of protesters, many of whom have remained in the city center since the huge rally, marched to the Parliament building, which was shielded by lines of buses and deep columns of riot police officers.
数千名示威者游行到了被公交车和多层防暴警察团团保护的国会大厦，他们中很多人都是在大集会后滞留在市中心的民众。
Opposition lawmakers said they now expected the action to shift onto the street.
反对派议员说，现在他们会把行动转移到街头。
“Street politics were always in the forefront,” said Yuri Levchenko, a member of Parliament with the nationalist Svoboda party. “In this environment, they will stay that way.”
“街头一向都是政治活动的前沿阵地，”民族主义党派斯沃博达党(Svoboda)的国会议员尤里·列夫琴科(Yuri Levchenko)说。“在这种情况下，他们会继续在街头活动。”
The organizers are using a strategy akin to a spreading ink blot, letting the crowds of giddy young men and women spill across an ever-broadening area of central Kiev, occupying the country’s most important political landscape. On Independence Square, protesters huddle around drum fires, play guitars and claim the pavement as their own, clearly confident that momentum is on their side.
组织者正在采用一个类似于“延展墨渍”(spreading ink blot)的策略，让一群群惹眼的年轻男女不断在基辅中心扩大活动范围，占领该国最重要的政治地形。在独立广场上，示威者们挤在火堆边弹吉他，并占据了人行道。很显然，他们坚信自己在势头上占了上风。
“The last couple of days have shown we are able to increase our area of control,” Mr. Levchenko said.
“过去几天的情况已经表明，我们可以扩大我们控制的范围。”列夫琴科说。