KIEV, Ukraine — In a striking concession aimed at defusing Ukraine’s civil uprising and preserving his own grip on power, President Viktor F. Yanukovych on Saturday offered to install opposition leaders in top posts in a reshaped government, but they swiftly rebuffed the offer to the delight of thousands of protesters on the street craving a fuller victory in the days ahead.
乌克兰基辅——周六，乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)提出，要在改组政府中安排反对派领导人担任高层职务，这是亚努科维奇为了平息乌克兰内乱，维持自己对权力的掌控而做出的明显让步，然而，让数千名街头抗议者欣喜的是，反对派领导人迅速拒绝了亚努科维奇的提议，这些抗议者渴望在接下来的日子里取得更圆满的胜利。
With mass protests spreading across the country, Mr. Yanukovych proposed one opposition figure, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, as prime minister and another, the former boxing champion Vitali Klitschko, as vice prime minister for humanitarian affairs. Mr. Yatsenyuk is a leader of Fatherland, the party of Mr. Yanukovych’s archrival, the jailed former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko.
随着大规模的抗议在全国上下蔓延开来，亚努科维奇提议由反对派人士阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)出任总理，由另一名反对派人士、前拳击冠军维塔利·克利奇科(Vitali Klitschko)出任掌管人道主义事务的副总理。亚采纽克是被监禁的前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)所在政党祖国联盟(Fatherland)的现任领导人，而季莫申科曾是亚努科维奇主要的竞争对手。
“No deal,” Mr. Yatsenyuk wrote on Twitter, addressing Mr. Yanukovych as thousands of angry protesters streamed to the still-occupied Independence Square, undeterred by the biting cold. “We’re finishing what we started,” he added. “The people decide our leaders, not you.”
“不做交易，”在数千名愤怒的抗议者无惧严寒涌入依旧被占领的独立广场之际，亚采纽克在Twitter上对亚努科维奇写道。他还说，“我们正在完成自己开启的事业。决定领导人的是人民，不是你。”
In a speech from the stage on the square, and in a news conference afterward, Mr. Yatsenyuk expressed more flexibility, but insisted that the embattled president was no longer in a position to dictate the terms of a deal. “We have our conditions,” he said, “not your conditions.”
在广场舞台发表的演讲中和随后的新闻发布会上，亚采纽克的措辞有所缓和，不过他坚称，四面楚歌的总统不再有权决定协议内容。他说，“我们有自己的条件，而不是你的条件。”
Those conditions, Mr. Yatsenyuk said, would include reconsideration of the far-reaching political and free trade agreements with the European Union that Mr. Yanukovych had promised to sign, but then abandoned. That decision set off the protests in late November. Mr. Yatsenyuk also said that Ms. Tymoshenko must be released from prison as European leaders have insisted.
亚采纽克说，这些条件包括要重新考虑与欧盟(European Union)之间影响深远的政治和自由贸易协定，亚努科维奇曾承诺要签署这些协定，但后来放弃了。正是他放弃签署协议的决定引发了去年11月底的抗议。亚采纽克还说，正如欧洲领导人一直坚持的那样，当局必须释放被关押在狱中的季莫申科。
Many demonstrators on the streets of Kiev, the capital, including some involved in violent clashes with the police, have been demanding Mr. Yanukovych’s resignation, which he did not offer. And the fury of the crowd made clear that the leaders would almost certainly have faced a mutiny had they accepted the deal.
首都基辅街头的许多示威者一直要求亚努科维奇辞职，其中一些还和警方发生了暴力冲突，然而亚努科维奇却没有提这一条。示威人群的怒火清晰地表明，如果反对派领导人接受了协议，那么他们几乎肯定会遭遇反抗。
“Shame!” some chanted as Mr. Yatsenyuk began his remarks by saying that the opposition was not afraid to lead the country. Others shouted, “Betrayer!”
当亚采纽克在演讲开始时说，反对派不害怕领导国家时，一些人呼喊着，“无耻！”另一些人则叫嚷着，“叛徒！”
In a further complication, some of the most aggressive demonstrators are supporters of the nationalist Svoboda Party and its leader, Oleg Tyagnibok, who took part in the talks with Mr. Yanukovych but was not offered a position.
示威者中最激进的一股力量是民族主义党派全乌克兰自由联盟(Svoboda Party)及其领导人奥列格·塔亚格尼布克(Oleg Tyagnibok)的支持者，塔亚格尼布克参与了和亚努科维奇的会谈，但是没有得到任何任职的提议，这让局势进一步复杂化了。
Mr. Klitschko, who leads a party called the Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform, said that protesters would remain on the streets as negotiations continued.
克利奇科说，就在谈判继续的同时，抗议者将继续待在街头，他领导着名为乌克兰改革民主同盟(Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform)的党派。
Mr. Yanukovych’s willingness to remove Prime Minister Mykola Azarov, who has been his staunch ally through the more than two-month-long civic uprising, underscored just how much pressure he has been facing to contain the crisis.
亚努科维奇愿意罢免总理米克拉·阿扎罗夫(Mykola Azarov)的举动，突显了他在危机遏制上究竟面临着多么大的压力。在长达两个多月的内乱中，阿扎罗夫一直是亚努科维奇的坚定盟友。
His offer came as protests continued to spread across the country on Saturday, with efforts to occupy or blockade government buildings underway in at least a dozen cities besides Kiev. In recent days, it has become increasingly clear that the elite Berkut riot police and other Interior Ministry troops are outnumbered and would face enormous challenges if asked to enforce a state of emergency.
周六，当亚努科维奇提出建议时，抗议活动在乌克兰持续蔓延，在包括基辅在内的数十座城市，意在占领或封锁政府大楼的活动仍在进行中。近日以来，有一点越来越清晰，那就是作为精锐的别尔库特(Berkut)防暴警察部队和内政部的其他部队人手不足了，假如当局命令他们实施紧急状态预案，他们将面临巨大的挑战。
Late Friday night, a fragile truce had disintegrated in Kiev and the city again was convulsed in violence.
在基辅，脆弱的和平期已于周五晚破碎，这座城市再次陷入暴乱之中。
In a move that suggested that his offers were more than theatrics aimed at dividing the opposition, Mr. Yanukovych also said he would be willing to roll back constitutional changes made at his direction that broadly expanded the powers of the presidency earlier in his term.
为了表明提议不仅是一出分化反对派的戏码，亚努科维奇还说他愿意撤销根据他的授意所做的修宪变更，在他就任的早期，这些变更大幅度地扩大了总统的权力。
He also agreed to make changes to a package of new laws that severely suppress political dissent, including freedoms of speech and assembly, which Mr. Yanukovych’s backers rammed through Parliament on Jan. 16. And he reiterated his offer to free all detained protesters who have not been charged with serious crimes.
亚努科维奇还同意更改严厉打压政治异见的一系列新法案，这种异见包括言论和集会的自由，亚努科维奇的支持者在今年1月16日强行通过了这些法案。他还重申，所有被关押的抗议者只要没有受到重罪指控都将被释放。
At his news conference late Saturday, Mr. Yatsenyuk said talks with Mr. Yanukovych would continue. “We do not reject the offer,” he said, “but we do not accept it.”
在周六晚间举行的新闻发布会上，亚采纽克说他将继续与亚努科维奇举行谈判。他说，“我们不拒绝他的提议，但是我们也不会接受它。”
The concessions were announced in a statement on the presidential website on Saturday after a negotiation session lasting more than three hours. The leadership changes were offered in a portion of the statement attributed to the minister of justice, Olena Lukash, who took part in the talks.
乌克兰总统网站周六通过一份声明宣布了上述让步措施，此前，乌克兰政府进行了三个多小时的协商。声明中提出领导职位变动的部分是参与了谈判的司法部长奥莱娜·卢卡什(Olena Lukash)提出的。
Ms. Lukash said that Mr. Yanukovych had also agreed to engage in a public debate with Mr. Klitschko, who has said he plans to challenge Mr. Yanukovych in the presidential election next year.
卢卡什说，亚努科维奇还同意与克利奇科进行公开辩论。克利奇科曾表示，他打算在明年的总统大选中向亚努科维奇提出挑战。
Mr. Yanukovych’s offer also called for reshaping the Central Election Commission to give opposition parties more influence — a step that is seen as important to preventing election fraud, which has been a persistent problem in Ukrainian balloting.
亚努科维奇在提议中还呼吁重组中央选举委员会(Central Election Commission)，让反对派有更大的影响力——外界认为此举对于防止选举欺诈十分重要。选举欺诈已经成为乌克兰选举中的顽疾。
Still, there seemed to be some strategizing in Mr. Yanukovych’s proposal, by offering the prime minister post to Mr. Yatsenyuk, rather than to Mr. Klitschko, who is more popular in public opinion polls and is likely to pose a sharper challenge in next year’s presidential campaign.
不过，亚努科维奇的提议背后似乎还有一些战略考量，他没有把副总理的职位提供给克利奇科，而是给了亚采纽克。克利奇科在民意测验中更受欢迎，因此有可能在明年的选战中构成更强大的威胁。
Even before the three opposition leaders could return to Independence Square from the talks at the presidential headquarters, violence flared in the main conflict zone, near the Dynamo soccer stadium. Tires were once again set ablaze on the street, and protesters clashed with special police units inside Ukraine House, a public conference center nearby.
甚至在这三名反对派领导人结束谈判从总统府回到独立广场之前，在靠近迪纳摩足球场的冲突核心区就已经陷入暴力中。街上又出现了燃烧的轮胎，在附近的公共会议中心乌克兰大厦(Ukrainian House)，抗议者们与特警部队发生冲突。
Before offering the concessions, Mr. Yanukovych was pressed by two of the nation’s wealthiest men, the so-called oligarchs who control Ukraine’s industry and economy and also wield influence in Parliament. Both men warned, in separate statements, that Ukraine was in danger of splintering.
在提出让步之前，亚努科维奇受到了来自该国两名最富有人士——即所谓的“寡头”——的压力。寡头们控制着乌克兰的工业和经济，也在议会拥有影响力。两人分别在不同的声明中警告说，乌克兰面临分裂的危险。
System Capital Management, a conglomerate owned by Ukraine’s richest man, Rinat Akhmetov, regarded as a close ally of Mr. Yanukovych, issued a statement lamenting the loss of life in recent days and offering condolences.
乌克兰首富里纳特·艾哈迈托夫(Rinat Akhmetov)旗下的联合企业系统资本管理公司(System Capital Management)发布了一份声明，对近日来的死难者表示哀悼。艾哈迈托夫被认为是亚努科维奇的亲密盟友。
“Business cannot keep silent when people are killed; a real danger of breakup of the country emerges; when a political crisis can lead to a deep economic recession and thus inevitably result in lower standards of living,” the statement said. “It is only by peaceful action that the political crisis can be resolved. Any use of force and weapons is unacceptable.”
声明中说，“人民遭到杀戮时，商界不应该保持沉默；这个国家分崩离析的真正危险正在浮现；当政治危机可能会引发一场深度经济衰退，进而不可避免地导致生活水平下降时，只有采取和平行动，政治危机才能得以解决。任何武力和武器的使用都是不可接受的。”
Another billionaire, Petro Poroshenko, a member of Parliament who is viewed as a potential future presidential candidate, issued a statement calling on lawmakers loyal to Mr. Yanukovych to join with opposition leaders to reach a compromise.
另一名亿万富翁、议员彼得·波罗申科(Petro Poroshenko)也发布了声明，呼吁忠于亚努科维奇的议员们与反对派领导人达成妥协。波罗申科被认为有成为总统候选人的潜力。
“Ukraine has never faced such a big threat,” Mr. Poroshenko said. “It’s no longer a political crisis. It’s a crisis of statehood. In danger are the lives of our fellow citizens, civil peace and territorial integrity.”
波罗申科说，“乌克兰从未面临过如此重大的威胁。这已不再是一场政治危机。这是一场民族危机。受到威胁的是我们同胞的生命、国内和平，以及领土完整。”
Adrian Karatnycky, an expert on Ukraine at the Atlantic Council of the United States, a research group, said that the opposition leaders would almost certainly want guarantees of changes to the Constitution before agreeing to any deal.
研究机构美国大西洋委员会(Atlantic Council)的乌克兰问题专家阿德里安 ·卡拉特尼茨基(Adrian Karatnycky)说，几乎可以肯定的是，在达成任何协议之前，反对派领导人都会先要求得到修改宪法的保证。
“This is a first off from Yanukovych, a sign he has blinked,” Mr. Karatnycky said. “The concessions Yanukovych has made are signs that his base wants to sue for peace. But the offer is not enough, as there is no trust in him.”
卡拉特尼茨基说，“这是亚努科维奇的第一个举措，他已经释放了一个信号。亚努科维奇所作的让步意味着，他的支持者想要求和。但是这些让步还不够，因为他没有获得信任。”