KIEV, Ukraine — Even as thousands of protesters occupied Independence Square, blockaded the Cabinet Ministry and continued to demand his resignation, President Viktor F. Yanukovich of Ukraine on Monday defended his refusal to sign accords with the European Union, said he was on the verge of securing lower gas prices from Russia, and urged opposition politicians to wait for presidential elections in 2015 to challenge him.
乌克兰基辅——周一，数千抗议者占领了独立广场(Independence Square)，包围了内阁总部(Cabinet Ministry)，并继续要求维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovich)总统辞职，而总统则为其拒绝与欧盟签署协定的行为进行了辩护。他说自己确保以较低价格从俄罗斯购买天然气的努力已经接近成功；他还奉劝反对派政客等到2015年总统大选时再对他发起挑战。
On the day after a huge protest by hundreds of thousands of people in Kiev, the capital, and by thousands more in other cities, Mr. Yanukovich struck a casual pose, sitting in an armchair for an interview with four television stations. He seemed to brush aside the unrest in the country, saying he would leave as scheduled for a state visit to China on Tuesday and taking the opportunity to note that the government intended to increase financing for road repair next year.
周日，数十万民众在首都基辅进行了一场大规模的抗议活动；在其他一些城市中，也分别有数千人走上街头表示抗议。第二天，亚努科维奇若无其事地坐在一把扶手椅里接受了四家电视台的访问。他似乎对这个国家的动荡局势视而不见，不但宣称将于周二起身，按照既定日程对中国进行国事访问，还趁机提到政府打算在明年拨付更多的款项用于修路。
To many here, it was unclear if Mr. Yanukovich’s calm demeanor reflected supreme confidence, complete denial or some combination of the two. Other political leaders in Ukraine acknowledged that the authorities were facing a serious civil disturbance, including the occupation by protesters of Kiev City Hall and the large Trade Unions building nearby, as well as a blockade of the Cabinet Ministry, which prevented top officials from reaching their offices.
这个国家的很多人都搞不清楚，亚努科维奇的泰然自若所反映的是无比的自信还是对现实的彻底否认，或者两者兼而有之。乌克兰的其他政治领导人承认，该国政府正面临一场严重的内部骚乱：基辅市政厅及其附近的工会大楼被抗议者占领了，内阁总部也被包围了，致使高级官员无法进入他们的办公室。
Prime Minister Mykola Azarov, in a meeting with Western ambassadors, complained about the widening unrest, saying, “This has all the signs of a coup.” Opposition leaders in Parliament said they would call for vote of no-confidence in the government on Tuesday, while protest leaders appeared to be digging in for a long battle on the streets, establishing a tent city in Independence Square that included first aid stations and canteens.
总理米克拉·阿扎罗夫(Mykola Azarov)在与西方国家使节会面时抱怨动乱范围正日益扩大，他说，“种种迹象都表明这是一场政变。”国会反对派领导人表示，他们将敦促国会于周二就一项针对政府的不信任案进行投票表决。与此同时，抗议活动的领导者似乎正全力以赴地为在街头打持久战做准备，他们在独立广场上建起了一座“帐篷城”，里边设有急救站和临时餐室。
Mr. Yanukovich’s remarks during the interview suggested that he was reaching out even further for help from Russia, where President Vladimir V. Putin on Monday remarked, “The events in Ukraine seem more like a pogrom than a revolution.” Russia had exerted heavy pressure to convince Mr. Yanukovich to scuttle the political and free trade agreements with Europe, threatening trade sanctions that could decimate the Ukrainian economy.
亚努科维奇接受采访时的言论表明，他正进一步寻求来自俄罗斯的帮助。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)周一评论称，“乌克兰的事件看其来更像一场大屠杀，而不是一场革命。”为了说服亚努科维奇放弃与欧盟签订政治及自由贸易协定，俄罗斯向其施加了沉重的压力，威胁要对乌克兰实施或将毁掉该国经济的贸易制裁。
Mr. Yanukovich, in the television interview, said that he planned to initiate negotiations this week with Russia to extend a strategic partnership agreement dating from 1997. He said that both Ukraine and Russia were acting in their own economic interests by seeking to strengthen ties, and he took a jab at the protesters who demanded that he sign the accords with Europe, suggesting that they were not acting in accordance with Western values.
亚努科维奇在电视访谈中表示，他打算在本周启动与俄罗斯方面的谈判，以延长签署于1997年的一项战略合作协议。他说，乌克兰和俄罗斯通过加强两国之间的联系，可以维护各自的经济利益。他还挖苦了要求他与欧盟签署协定的抗议者，暗示他们的所作所为与西方的价值观不相符。
“If we want European standards, we must do everything within the framework of the law — this is the principle of democracy,” Mr. Yanukovich said. He also suggested that the leaders in Parliament supporting demands for his resignation were getting ahead of themselves. “I urge all politicians not to rush,” he said. “They are all still young, and they have everything ahead of them. Elections are coming. People will determine. Whoever is elected, so be it.” His remarks on elections were sure to draw snickers, given that Ukraine’s Orange Revolution in 2004 was set off by blatant ballot fraud that handed Mr. Yanukovich an easy victory in the presidential race that year. He has also been under sharp international criticism for the conviction and jailing of his main political rival, former president Yulia V. Tymoshenko, on abuse of authority charges.
“如果我们想要欧洲的标准，那么我们所做的一切都必须以法律为框架——这是民主的本质，”亚努科维奇说。他还暗示，对要求自己辞职的声音表示支持的那些国会中的领导人有好高骛远之嫌。“我奉劝所有的政治人物都不要急于一时，”他说。“他们还很年轻，一切都在前面等着他们。大选即将来临。人民将做出裁决，谁被选上就是谁。”亚努科维奇关于选举的言论势必招来人们的窃笑，因为2004年乌克兰橙色革命的导火索，正是让他在那一年的总统大选中轻易取胜的明目张胆的舞弊行为。此外，他还因为以滥用职权的罪名将其主要政治对手、前总理尤利娅·V.·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)定罪并关进监狱，而招致国际社会的尖锐批评，
Mr. Yanukovich also spoke by phone on Monday with the president of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso, and asked to continue some discussions around the political and free trade accords. The Europeans have said they remain open to signing the agreements, provided Ukraine meets necessary conditions, including efforts to overhaul its judicial system. Mr. Barroso in the telephone conversation urged restraint in dealing with protesters, and respect for civil liberties.
周一，亚努科维奇还与欧盟委员会(European Commission)主席若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)通了电话，要求继续就政治和自由贸易协定进行讨论。欧洲方面已经表示，如果乌克兰能够满足某些必要条件，包括设法改革其司法体系，那么他们依然会为乌克兰敞开签署协定的大门。巴罗佐在电话会谈中敦促乌克兰政府在与抗议者打交道时保持克制，尊重公民的自由。
Nevertheless, Inna Bohoslovska, a member of Parliament who has quit Mr. Yanukovich’s Party of Regions in support of the demonstrators, called on Monday for the government to resign.
尽管如此，国会议员因娜·博戈斯洛夫斯卡娅(Inna Bohoslovska)仍然在周一要求政府下台。为了对示威者表示支持，博戈斯洛夫斯卡娅已经退出了亚努科维奇所在的地区党(Party of Regions)。
After the huge rally on Sunday the demonstrators overnight blocked city streets, using Christmas decorations and police barricades intended to stop the protest.
周日的那场大规模集会结束后，示威者在夜间利用圣诞装饰品和原本被用来阻止抗议活动的警方路障封锁了城市的某些街道。
The result was an oddly festive, fir-trimmed encampment at the heart of the Ukrainian capital. Protest leaders, sensing that momentum had turned to their advantage, continued to add infrastructure to their operation, bringing in television monitors and erecting the small tent city.
结果，在乌克兰首都的中心地带，形成了一个带有奇特节日氛围的、点缀着杉树的营盘。抗议活动的领导者意识到当前的势头已经变得对他们有利，于是继续为其指挥部增添基础设施。他们带来了电视监视器，并且建起了小型的帐篷城。
Protesters also continued to occupy City Hall in Kiev, where windows had been smashed and walls covered with graffiti. Under a sign for the Kiev City Council, someone had painted in black: “Revolution Headquarters.”
此外，抗议者们继续占领着基辅市政厅，那里的窗户已经被砸碎了，墙壁上满是涂鸦。在基辅市议会的牌子底下，有人用黑色涂料写下了“革命总部”几个大字。