SLOVYANSK, Ukraine — The Ukrainian military landed airborne troops at an airport about 25 miles south of here on Tuesday, raising tensions with Russia in the opening phase of what the government in Kiev called a wider military operation to confront pro-Russian militants in the eastern part of the country.
乌克兰斯洛夫扬斯克——周二，乌克兰军方派遣的空降部队在这个城市以南约25英里（约合40公里）处的一座机场着陆，令乌克兰与俄罗斯的紧张关系进一步升级。基辅政府称，这只是打击该国东部亲俄武装分子的大规模军事行动的开始。
Later in the day, a column of armored personnel carriers flying Ukrainian flags approached Slovyansk from the north, parking for a time beside a highway and setting up a checkpoint. Of all the cities in the east, Slovyansk seemed to have fallen most completely under the control of pro-Russian separatists, who have erected massive defensive barricades outside the buildings they occupy.
当天晚些时候，一队悬挂乌克兰国旗的装甲运兵车从北部靠近斯洛夫扬斯克，一度停在了公路旁，并设立了一个检查站。在东部的所有城市中，斯洛夫扬斯克似乎最为彻底地落入了亲俄分裂势力的控制之中。这些亲俄分裂势力已经在其占领的建筑外设立了大量防御路障。
The Ukrainian authorities said the movements were the first in a campaign to drive separatists from government buildings in as many as 10 cities in eastern Ukraine. The initial steps suggested that the government in Kiev, which had been hesitant to do anything to play into Moscow’s narrative that Russian-language speakers are in need of protection, was now willing to use the military to try to restore order in some places.
乌克兰当局表示将采取行动，将乌克兰东部多达10个城市的政府大楼中的分裂分子赶走，而这次军队调动只是一个开始。这些初步行动显示，乌克兰政府目前愿意动用军方恢复一些地方的秩序。此前，基辅一直不愿意采取任何可能为莫斯科的说辞提供口实的行动。莫斯科方面称，即乌克兰讲俄语的人需要保护。
In a conflict that has revealed deep, East-West fault lines, the White House praised the move as a measured step toward restoring law and order, while President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia told the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, in a phone call that he expected “clear condemnation” of the “anti-constitutional” operation by the international community. The Russian stock market fell by 3 percent on war jitters.
目前的冲突暴露了东西方之间的深度断层。白宫称赞上述举动是在恢复法治方向上迈出的审慎一步，而俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在电话中告诉联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)，他希望国际社会能对“违反宪法”的行动进行“明确谴责”。由于担心战争爆发，俄罗斯股市下跌了3%。
At the small military air base in the town of Kramatorsk, Ukrainian soldiers quickly took control, holding at bay separatists who had surrounded the field’s perimeter, which is guarded by a barbed wire fence. At some point the commander of the operation, Gen. Vasily Krutov, left the base to speak to a crowd of protesters numbering about 500 to urge them to disperse. But the crowd remained hostile, and when he turned to head back to the base he was roughed up, people in the crowd said, shoved hard enough that his hat fell off.
在克拉马托尔斯克的小型空军基地，乌克兰士兵很快掌控了局面，将机场周围铁丝网边的分裂分子赶走。军事行动的指挥官瓦西里·克鲁托夫上将(Vasily Krutov)一度曾走出基地，对大约有500人的示威人群喊话，敦促他们解散。但是人群仍然抱有敌意，其中的示威者说，克鲁托夫转身走回基地时被肢体冲撞，用力推搡之下他的帽子都掉了下来。
The crowd outside the air base then insulted and taunted the soldiers inside. “Guys, fly home, we didn’t invite you here,” one man yelled.
之后空军基地外的人群开始辱骂、奚落里面的士兵。“伙计们，飞回去吧，我们又没有邀请你们过来，”一名男子高呼。
The situation, described by local reporters as a “mob scene,” persisted into the early evening, with the crowd occasionally surging forward through a gap in the fence and soldiers firing into the ground in front of those who approached too close. Members of the crowd said that at least two people were wounded by the shots.
当地记者形容这种场面是“暴民聚集”。人群聚集的场面一直持续到了凌晨，还时不时会钻过护栏的窄缝涌进去，促使士兵往走得太近的人前方地面上开枪。人群中的一些人表示，至少有两人被击中受伤。
Russian television — which has consistently sought to play up grievances by pro-Russian activists who the West says are a tool of Russian intelligence — introduced its evening broadcast by announcing, “The illegal, criminal government in Kiev launches a war against its own people.”
俄罗斯的电视一直都在极力报道亲俄罗斯活动人士的不满，西方认为这些活动人士是俄罗斯情报机构的工具。晚间播出的新闻节目一开始，俄罗斯的电视台就宣称，“非法的、可耻的基辅政府对自己的人民发动了战争。”
It repeatedly broadcast images of helicopters and a single warplane in the vicinity of the airport, where separatists had set up a roadblock outside the main entrance on Sunday. The Russian news media, citing members of the armed opposition to the government in Kiev, reported that several members of a pro-Russian militia had been wounded at the airfield in firefights with the Ukrainian military. Later, it also reported four fatalities in the vicinity of the airport.
电视上反复播放多架直升机和一架战斗机出现在这座机场附近的画面，周日分裂分子已经在机场大门外设置了路障。俄罗斯新闻媒体援引反对基辅政府的武装派系成员的话说，有数名亲俄罗斯的民兵在机场与乌克兰军方交火时受伤。之后，俄罗斯媒体还报道，机场附近有四人死亡。
The Russian Foreign Ministry released a statement on Tuesday saying it was “deeply concerned” by the reports of casualties, which could not be independently confirmed and were denied even by pro-Russian activists at the airport.
周二，俄罗斯外交部发表声明称，对报道的伤亡“深表关切”。但这些伤亡的报道无法独立核实，而且就连身在机场的亲俄活动人士都否认了这些报道。
The checkpoint the Ukrainian military established on a highway north of Slovyansk provided a further sign that the operation this time represented more than just words. Speaking to reporters following the armored column, General Krutov delivered a sharp warning to any gunmen on the road ahead, saying, “They must be warned that if they do not lay down their arms, they will be destroyed.”
乌克兰军方在斯洛夫扬斯克以北的公路上设置的检查站，进一步显示了这次的行动不只是说说而已。克鲁托夫对跟在一队装甲运兵车后的记者们发言时，对前方路上可能有的任何枪手给予了严厉警告。他说，“他们要听好了，如果不放下武器，就会被消灭。”
While there were no credible reports of casualties or even any sustained firefights, General Krutov later told The Associated Press that his forces had repelled a force of 30 men in green uniforms without insignia, shorthand for the unmarked Russian regulars who infiltrated and overran Crimea.
尽管没有关于伤亡或任何持续交火的可信报道，但克鲁托夫后来对美联社(The Associated Press)透露，他的部队已经击溃了一股由30名身着无徽章绿色制服的男子组成的队伍。这是对隐瞒身份渗透进克里米亚并实施占领的俄罗斯正规军的代称。
The protesters at the airport said in interviews that they felt no allegiance or kinship to the government in Kiev and wanted to go their own way.
机场的示威者在接受采访时表示，他们感觉对基辅的政府既没有忠诚也没有亲切感，希望走自己的路。
“After Maidan, the east of Ukraine felt outside the political process,” said Vyachislav Filken, 47, a construction worker in the crowd, referring to the Kiev square where the uprising that led to a new government unfolded. “They wanted to put in their president and didn’t ask us.”
“在广场上的事发生后，感觉乌克兰东部已经跟政治进程没关系了，”人群中47岁的建筑工人维亚奇斯拉夫·费尔肯(Vyachislav Filken)说。基辅独立广场发生的示威活动导致了新政府的成立。“他们想安插一个自己的总统，也没问问我们。”
Mr. Filken said that he wanted Ukraine to grant eastern regions autonomy, but that local people now felt emboldened and might demand simply to join Russia, as he said residents of Crimea had.
费尔肯说，他希望乌克兰能向东部地区赋予自治权，然而他又说，当地人现在可能觉得受到了鼓舞，或许会直接要求加入俄罗斯，就像克里米亚居民所做的那样。
Another said, “We want to live apart and be the bosses in our own land.”
另一个人说，“我们想分开，在自己的土地上当自己的老板。”
After the operation began, masked gunmen at checkpoints in the city prohibited civilian vehicles from leaving Slovyansk through a main checkpoint, citing Ukrainian military movements on the highway outside the city. Cars were allowed out by side roads.
行动开始后，戴着面具的持枪者站在市内的检查点旁，禁止民用车辆通过主检查站离开斯洛夫扬斯克，理由是乌克兰军方正在城外的公路上移动，只允许汽车沿着辅路离开。
The Ukrainian speaker of Parliament and acting president, Oleksandr V. Turchynov, told Parliament in Kiev that the operation “will be carried out in stages, and responsibly and in a balanced manner.”
乌克兰议长兼代总统奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)在基辅对议会表示，行动“会分阶段进行，会以负责任的、平衡的方式展开。”