MOSCOW — A major natural gas pipeline exploded in central Ukraine on Tuesday, a day after the Russian energy behemoth Gazprom said that it was cutting off supplies to Ukraine in a dispute over pricing, and officials immediately labeled it a possible act of sabotage.
莫斯科——周二，乌克兰中部地区的一条重要天然气管道发生爆炸，而就在一天前，能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）在一场有关定价的纠纷中声称，要切断对乌克兰的天然气供应。事发后，乌克兰官员很快认定，此次爆炸属破坏行为。
Utility officials said that natural gas deliveries were not interrupted and that supplies to Ukrainian customers and other European countries were flowing through alternative pipes.
公共事业官员说，天然气输送没有中断，正在通过其他管线向乌克兰客户和其他欧洲国家输送天然气。
The blast occurred in a sparsely populated area of the Poltava region, which lies between Kiev, the capital, and the embattled regions of eastern Ukraine where a civil war is effectively underway between pro-Russian separatists and the Ukrainian military. Video from the scene showed a huge plume of fire shooting hundreds of feet into the sky.
爆炸发生在波尔塔瓦地区一处人烟稀少的地带。波尔塔瓦位于首都基辅和乌克兰东部交战地区之间。乌克兰东部正在进行着亲俄分裂分子和乌克兰军方之间的内战。现场视频显示，一团巨大的火焰腾空而起，冲向数百英尺的高空。
The explosion destroyed a section of the Urengoy-Pomary-Uzhgorod pipeline, which runs more than 1,800 miles from Russia’s Arctic north through Ukraine to the border of Slovakia. Ukraine’s interior minister, Arsen Avakov, issued a statement saying investigators’ leading theory was that the attack was deliberate.
爆炸破坏了乌连戈伊-帕玛里-乌兹戈拉德(Urengoy-Pomary-Uzhgorod)输气管道的部分区段。这条管道从北极圈内的俄罗斯北部，横贯乌克兰，延伸到斯洛伐克边境，长度超过1800英里（约合2900公里）。乌克兰内政部长阿尔森·阿瓦科夫(Arsen Avakov)发表声明称，调查人员的主要推测是，这是一场蓄意袭击。
“The Interior Ministry is conducting a probe to determine the reason for the explosion,” Mr. Avakov said in a statement. “Several versions are being considered, including a key version: a terrorist attack. According to local residents, they heard two loud pops right before the fire started, which might be evidence of intentional explosions.”
“内政部正在进行调查，以确定爆炸的原因，”阿瓦科夫在声明中说，“我们正在考虑几种可能性，包括一个重要的可能性：这是一次恐怖袭击。据当地居民说，就在起火前，他们听见了两次巨大的爆破声，这可能证明有人故意实施爆炸。”
The damaged pipeline, which runs about six feet underground, carries Russian gas that is destined for Ukraine, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Austria, Germany, France, Switzerland, Slovenia and Italy. It has a capacity of carrying 28 billion cubic meters a year.
这段损毁的管道位于地下大约六英尺的位置，负责把俄罗斯的天然气输送到乌克兰、斯洛伐克、捷克、奥地利、德国、法国、瑞士、斯洛文尼亚和意大利。管道一年可以输送280亿立方米的天然气。
Gazprom’s decision to cut off supplies to Ukraine, as well as demand that Ukraine pay for all gas in advance, was a sharp escalation of the fight over pricing. Russia has complained that Ukraine has failed to pay billions of dollars in debts for previous gas supplies, while the Ukrainian government insists that Russia, which owns a controlling interest in Gazprom, is demanding exorbitantly high rates and is using energy tariffs as a lever in the wider political dispute between the countries.
俄气公司切断对乌克兰供应的决定，以及要求乌克兰提前支付天然气费用的做法，令因定价引发的斗争骤然升级。俄罗斯曾抱怨乌克兰拖欠数十亿美元的天然气款项，而乌克兰政府坚称，在俄气公司拥有控股权的俄罗斯政府，对乌克兰索要的价格过高，且正在利用能源关税作为两国间更广泛政治纠纷的筹码。
Fighting continued Tuesday in eastern Ukraine, including mortar fire near the city of Luhansk that killed a Russian television journalist, Igor Kornelyuk, and a sound engineer, Anton Voloshin, who were working for the state-controlled Rossiya channel.
周二，乌克兰东部的冲突仍在继续。其间，卢甘斯克市附近的迫击炮袭击导致俄罗斯电视记者伊戈尔·科尔涅柳克(Igor Kornelyuk)和录音师安东·沃洛申(Anton Voloshin)丧生，他们生前效力于国有的俄罗斯电视台(Rossiya)。
Their deaths drew a sharp condemnation from the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, who blamed the government in Kiev for its continuing military operation aimed at cracking down on separatist rebels. Mr. Lavrov, responding to a reporter’s question in Baku, Azerbaijan, where he was on an official visit, also had pointed words for the West.
二人的死亡引发了俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)的激烈谴责。拉夫罗夫抨击了基辅政府旨在镇压分裂叛乱分子的持续军事行动。拉夫罗夫正在阿塞拜疆巴库进行访问，他在那里回答一名记者的提问时，也发表了指责西方的言论。
“This case sends a strong signal for the Western patrons of Kiev to stop their reckless support for violent action and to make the Kiev authorities fulfill the promise of President Petro O. Poroshenko — to start true a national dialogue involving all regions about the future of the country,” Mr. Lavrov said.
拉夫罗夫说，“这一事件向基辅的西方靠山发出了强烈信号，它们应该停止对暴力活动不顾后果的支持，让基辅当局实现总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O.Poroshenko)的承诺——开启由所有地区参与的、关于国家未来的真正全国性对话。”
Ukraine’s state-operated pipeline company, Ukrtransgaz, said in a statement that the explosion occurred at 2:20 p.m. and that the fire was under control and the damage contained in about an hour.
国有管道公司乌克兰天然气运输公司(Ukrtransgaz)在一份声明中说，爆炸发生在下午2点20分，火势和破坏性影响在大约一个小时之内就得到了控制。
“Thanks to the design features of the Ukraine gas transport system and the adherence to response protocols, Ukrtransgaz effectively coped with the emergency situation and continues to provide an uninterrupted supply of gas to consumers in Ukraine as well as transit to Europe,” the company said, adding, “The localization of damage is further confirmation of the reliability of the Ukrainian gas transport system.”
“多亏了乌克兰天然气运输系统的设计特点，以及对应急响应规程的遵守，乌克兰天然气运输公司有效地应对了紧急情况，持续为乌克兰的消费者提供不间断的天然气供应，且仍在向欧洲输送天然气，”该公司说，“破坏被控制在局部，这进一步证明了乌克兰天然气运输系统的可靠性。”
Mr. Avakov, the interior minister, noted that the Ukrainian government had thwarted two previous attempts to attack natural gas pipelines before the country’s presidential election on May 25, in the western region of Ivano-Frankivsk. Ukrainian officials blamed those attempts on pro-Russian activists seeking to cast doubt on the reliability of Ukraine’s pipeline system.
该国内政部长阿瓦科夫指出，在5月25日大选前，乌克兰政府已经挫败了两次在伊万诺-弗兰科夫斯克州西部地区袭击天然气管道的企图。乌克兰官员称，它们来自亲俄罗斯的活动分子，旨在引起外界对乌克兰管线系统可靠性的质疑。