KIEV, Ukraine — Ending an occupation of City Hall here that began in December, Ukrainian protesters cemented an amnesty deal with the authorities on Sunday amid signs that both sides in a volatile political crisis were seeking to reduce tensions.
乌克兰基辅——周日，乌克兰示威者与官方达成了赦免协议，始于去年12月的占领市政府的运动至此结束。最近有迹象表明，这场动荡的政治危机中，冲突双方都在寻求缓和紧张的局势。
After groups of young men wearing helmets and armed with wooden clubs threatened to retake the building if the authorities did not swiftly close all criminal cases relating to a protest movement now in its third month, Ukraine’s prosecutor general announced a halt to criminal proceedings, ruling that protesters had met the conditions for amnesty set out in a Jan. 29 law.
到现在为止，其间时常发生暴力冲突的抗议运动已经持续到了第三个月。一群群戴着头盔的年轻男子曾手持木棒威胁称，如果官方不迅速撤销与这场抗议运动相关的所有刑事案件，就会再次夺取市政府大楼。之后，乌克兰总检察长宣布终止所有的相关刑事案件，并认定示威者已经满足了1月29日颁布的一项法律中规定的获得赦免的条件。
The law specified that those involved in sometimes violent demonstrations would receive amnesty only if the protesters, among other things, unblocked Hrushevsky Street, a soot-smeared road piled with barriers that leads to the government’s main office complex.
该法律规定，示威者在对格鲁舍夫斯基大街(Hrushevsky Street)解除封锁，并满足其他一些条件后，才能获得赦免。通往政府主办公区的格鲁舍夫斯基大街上现在烟尘弥漫，堆满了路障。
In a sign that neither side wants to return to the bloody clashes that killed at least three protesters last month, the police pulled back from the barricades on Hrushevsky Street and protesters cleared a narrow passageway for vehicles to pass through tangled mounds of garbage, rubber tires, sandbags and ice. Late on Sunday, however, masked men in helmets were still blocking nearly all cars and pedestrians.
警方从格鲁舍夫斯基大街上的路障附近撤离，示威者也清理出了一条狭窄的通路，供车辆在杂乱堆积的垃圾、轮胎、沙袋和冰雪中穿行，这表明双方都不想回到上个月那种至少导致三名示威者丧生的流血冲突。然而在周日晚间，戴着面具和头盔的男子仍然在阻拦几乎所有的汽车和行人。
The partial lifting of the blockade and the decision by protesters earlier in the day to pull out of City Hall eased, at least temporarily, a standoff with President Viktor F. Yanukovych, who set off the political crisis in November by spurning a trade deal with the European Union and tilting Ukraine, a bitterly divided former Soviet republic of 46 million people, toward Russia instead.
示威者部分解除封锁的举动，以及在当天早些时候撤出市政府的决定，至少暂时缓和了他们与总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)之间的对峙。亚努科维奇去年11月放弃了一项与欧盟的贸易协定，并且让乌克兰转向了俄罗斯，于是引发了一场政治危机。乌克兰是前苏联加盟共和国，有4600万人口，国内存在尖锐的意见分歧。
In a statement from Brussels, Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, welcomed the evacuation of City Hall. After weeks of demands and counterdemands, she said, “several important steps have been undertaken during the last few days to de-escalate the situation in Ukraine, thus contributing to a Ukrainian way from the current political crisis.”
在布鲁塞尔发出的一份声明中，欧盟外交事务负责人凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)对撤出市政府之举表示了欢迎。她说，在经过数周的讨价还价之后，“过去几天里采取了若干个重要的举动，来缓和乌克兰的局势，为当前的政治危机提供了一个乌克兰式的出路。”
At the same time, tens of thousands of people poured into Independence Square in Kiev to join a boisterous but peaceful antigovernment rally that featured speeches denouncing Mr. Yanukovych’s “bandit regime” and calling for his resignation.
与此同时，数万民众涌进了基辅的独立广场，参与了一场喧闹但和平的反政府集会。民众发表演说，谴责了亚努科维奇的“土匪政权”，并呼吁他辞职。
How far each side is willing to go toward a more enduring truce or even a settlement may become clearer on Tuesday, when Parliament reconvenes and Mr. Yanukovych may present a new candidate for prime minister — a post that has been vacant since the last prime minister resigned in January.
双方到底有多大意愿取得长期的谅解，甚至了结争端，周二时可能会更清晰。届时议会将重新开会，亚努科维奇或许会提名一位新的总理人选，自上一任总理1月辞职以来，总理职位一直空缺。
Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, an opposition leader who rejected an offer from Mr. Yanukovych last month to take the post, said at the rally on Sunday that the roughly 2,000 criminal cases against protesters must be closed.
上个月，反对派的一名领导人物阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)回绝了亚努科维奇让他担任总理的邀请。亚采纽克周日在一次集会上说，针对示威者的大约2000宗刑事案件都必须撤销。
In an interview posted on the website of the Ukrainian weekly Dzerkalo Tyzhnia, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, a former prime minister and opposition leader who was jailed after Mr. Yanukovych defeated her in the 2010 election, said that she was willing to take part in negotiations to end the crisis but that “the only topic” up for discussion was the manner of the president’s resignation, including “guarantees for the protection of his family.”
在乌克兰周报《镜报》(Dzerkalo Tyzhnia)网站上发表的一则访谈中，尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)说，她愿意为了终结危机而参与谈判，但可以讨论的“唯一议题”是总统辞职的方式，包括“对其家人给予保护的保证”。季莫申科是乌克兰前总理，也是反对派领导人。在2010年的大选中负于亚努科维奇后，季莫申科曾遭监禁。
Most of the barricades erected around Independence Square to fend off a possible attack by the riot police remained in place on Sunday, guarded by masked young men carrying homemade shields and clubs or metal rods. Although City Hall was no longer crammed with protesters, it remained beyond the reach of the authorities.
周日，自由广场周围，为了阻拦防暴警察可能发动的攻击而树立的障碍物多数都还在原处，由头戴面具的男子把守着，他们均手持自制的盾牌和木棒或铁棍。尽管示威者已经不再满满当当地挤在市政府里，但官方仍然无法进入政府大楼。
Many of the protesters who left City Hall on Sunday said they disagreed with the decision to vacate the building — a decision made by opposition leaders as part of an amnesty deal aimed at defusing a crisis that former President Leonid M. Kravchuk said last month had pushed the country to “the brink of civil war.” On Saturday, the authorities freed more than 200 people who had been detained in connection with the protests, but they and many others remained under investigation until the prosecutor general’s announcement on Sunday.
许多在周日离开市政府的抗议者表示，他们反对腾出大楼的决定。反对派领导人做出的这个决定，是一项赦免协议的一部分，协议的目的在于减轻政治危机。乌克兰前总统列昂尼德·M·克拉夫丘克(Leonid M. Kravchuk)上个月表示，这场危机已经把乌克兰推到了“内战的边缘”。周六，官方释放了超过200名因示威遭到羁押的人员，但直到总检察长周日发出声明，他们连同其他一些人仍然在受到调查。
Bogdan Burtnuk, an activist from western Ukraine who joined the occupation of City Hall in December, said he thought it was a mistake to leave before “they release and clear all our hostages,” meaning that the freed detainees could still face criminal charges. The agreement to vacate the building was strongly supported by Svoboda, a nationalist political party that is at odds with more hard-line forces like Right Sector, a coalition of militant groups that has said Mr. Yanukovych’s resignation is a condition for any political settlement.
博格丹·布尔特努克(Bogdan Burtnuk)是来自乌克兰西部的一名活动人士，他在去年12月加入了占领市政府的行动。他说，还没等“他们释放所有人质，并为他们洗脱罪名”就离开，是一个错误。他指的是，遭羁押者获释后仍然可能会面对刑事指控。腾出政府办公大楼的协议得到了民族主义政党全乌克兰自由联盟(Svoboda)的支持，自由联盟与立场更为强硬的势力，如“正义部”(Right Sector)关系不和，后者是激进团体的一个联盟，主张亚努科维奇辞职是任何政治解决途径的先决条件。
The evacuation of the building was monitored by the Swiss ambassador in Kiev. Switzerland holds the rotating presidency of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, a Vienna-based group that is working to defuse tensions in Ukraine.
腾出政府大楼的行动由瑞士驻基辅大使监督。总部位于维也纳的欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)正在努力缓和乌克兰的局势，瑞士目前是欧安组织的轮值主席国。
Switzerland’s foreign minister, Didier Burkhalter, said in a statement that the decision to vacate the building, which had been daubed with graffiti declaring it the “headquarters of the revolution,” was a “positive development.” Mr. Burkhalter urged “all sides to remain fully engaged in efforts to reach necessary compromises in a broad and inclusive political dialogue.”
瑞士外长迪迪埃·伯克哈尔特(Didier Burkhalter)在一份声明中表示，腾出办公楼的决定是一个“积极的发展”。现在办公楼里画满了涂鸦，宣称这里是“革命总部”。不过伯克哈尔特敦促称，“各方都应当持续专注地参与，从而在广泛而有包容性的政治对话中达成必要的妥协。”
But deep suspicions remain. Scores of young men in camouflage fatigues who left City Hall early on Sunday later returned, gathering outside in a militarylike formation and vowing to retake the building if the prosecutor general did not sign a formal order lifting all charges against the protesters.
然而深深的疑虑仍然存在。数十名身着迷彩服的年轻男子周日早间离开市政府之后，晚些时候又回到了那里，他们在楼外像军人一样站成方阵，宣称如果总检察长不签署正式的命令，解除所有针对示威者的指控，他们就会重新夺回大楼。
“We do not trust them,” said the group’s commander, who identified himself only as Andriy.
这个团体的指挥者说，“我们不信任他们。”他只透露自己的名字叫安德里(Andriy)。