KIEV, Ukraine — After a night of clashes with protesters in Independence Square, security forces appeared to pull back Wednesday from the central plaza in Kiev where demonstrators have been rallying against the government of President Viktor F. Yanukovich for more than two weeks.
乌克兰基辅——周三，在与独立广场(Independence Square)上的抗议者发生了一夜的冲突后，安全部队似乎开始从基辅的这座中心广场撤退。此前的两周多时间里，抗议者一直在该广场集会，反对维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)总统领导的政府。
The police had taken control of a large section of the square and brought in front-end loaders and other heavy equipment to clear it. But by 11 a.m., the police presence had dwindled and pedestrians were walking freely through the square.
警方曾控制了广场上的一大片地方，并带来了前端装载机和其他一些重型设备，开始清理那块地方。但到了上午11点，警方力量的规模已经减小，行人自由地在广场上穿行。
The interior minister, Vitaliy Zakharchenko, issued a statement on Wednesday saying the overnight crackdown had been needed to ease traffic congestion in Kiev and promised that there would be no dispersal of the protesters in the square.
周三，内政部长维塔利·扎哈尔琴科(Vitaliy Zakharchenko)发表了一份声明，称夜间镇压的目的是缓解基辅的交通拥堵，并承诺不会驱散广场上的抗议者。
“No one infringes on citizens’ rights to peaceful protests,” he said. “But we cannot ignore the rights and legal interests of other citizens.”
“没人会侵犯公民和平抗议的权利，”他说，“但我们不能忽略其他公民的权利和合法利益。”
He said the clearing of the streets was carried out in accordance with a court order. Many protesters had been calling for Mr. Zakharchenko’s dismissal after a bloody crackdown on demonstrators on Nov. 30. Although the police pushed forcefully through the crowd in the square early Wednesday, they did not use their truncheons and there was no repeat of the flagrant violence of two weeks ago.
他说，清理街道的行动是遵照法庭命令执行的。当局在11月30日对示威者进行血腥镇压之后，许多抗议者都要求免去扎哈尔琴科的职务。尽管警方于周三凌晨强行冲开了广场上的人群，但他们没用使用警棍，两周前的公然暴力行径也没有再次上演。
The effort to clear large parts of the main protest site overnight was a stinging rebuke to Western diplomats who thought they had received promises that force would not be used against peaceful demonstrators.
当局在夜间清理这个主要抗议地点的大片地方，此举是给一些西方外交官的当头一棒。他们本以为乌克兰政府已经向自己承诺，不会动用武力镇压和平抗议者。
Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, the leader in Parliament of the opposition Fatherland Party and a main organizer of the protest movement, said the police action showed that Mr. Yanukovich was dismissive of Western leaders, and of Ukrainians.
反对党全乌克兰祖国联盟(Fatherland)的议会领袖、此次抗议行动的主要组织者阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克( Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)表示，警方的行为表明，亚努科维奇对西方领导人和乌克兰人民不屑一顾。
“He spit in the face of America, E.U. countries and 46 million Ukrainians,” Mr. Yatsenyuk said in remarks from the stage at Independence Square, where the sound system was still functioning on Wednesday. “We won’t forgive this.”
周三，独立广场上的音响系统依然运转正常。亚采纽克在独立广场的演讲台上说，“他是在往美国、欧洲国家和4600万乌克兰人的脸上吐口水。我们不会原谅他这么干。”
Those officials were likely left wondering if they had miscalculated in urging leaders of the protests to negotiate with Mr. Yanukovich and in their own efforts to do so. The crackdown by the authorities came after a three-and-a-half-hour meeting between Mr. Yanukovich and Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign policy chief.
那些西方官员多半只能满腹疑问地猜测，自己和亚努科维奇协商，并且敦促抗议领袖和亚努科维奇协商，这样做是不是误判了形势。当局实施镇压前，亚努科维奇刚刚和欧盟外交和安全政策高级代表凯瑟琳•阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)举行了三个半小时的会谈。
The diplomatic consequences became apparent almost immediately.
此事的外交影响几乎是立竿见影。
“I was among you,” Ms. Ashton said in a statement on Wednesday morning. “The authorities did not need to act under the cover of night.”
阿什顿在周三上午的声明中说，“我和你们在一起。当局不需要在夜幕的掩盖下行动。”
And in unusually strong language, Secretary of State John Kerry expressed the United States’ “disgust” with the authorities’ decision to use force. “This response is neither acceptable nor does it befit a democracy,” he said in a statement.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)使用了非比寻常的激烈措辞，表示美国对当局使用武力的决定感到“恶心”。“这种反应既不可接受，也不符合民主体制。”他在一份声明中说。
Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland, who was in Kiev as the police action unfolded, visited Independence Square on Wednesday morning to hand out bread to demonstrators and to Interior Ministry police officers who spent the night on the street before heading to a meeting with Mr. Yanukovich.
警方展开行动时，美国助理国务卿维多利亚·纽兰(Victoria Nuland)身在基辅。她于周三上午走访了独立广场，给在街上过夜的示威者和内政部警察分发面包。之后，她和亚努科维奇举行了会谈。
After the meeting, Ms. Nuland condemned the police action but said the United States had conveyed to Mr. Yanukovich that it would still be possible conclude a free-trade pact with the European Union and negotiate a loan from the International Monetary Fund.
会谈后，纽兰谴责了警方的行动，不过她说，美国已经转告亚努科维奇，乌克兰和欧盟达成自由贸易协定的可能性依然存在，乌克兰仍有可能从国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)那里协商一笔贷款。
“I made it absolutely clear to him that what happened last night, what has been happening in security terms here, is absolutely impermissible in a European state, in a democratic state,” she said. “But we also made clear that we believe there is a way out for Ukraine, that it is still possible to save Ukraine’s European future.”
她说，“我清晰无误地对他说，欧盟成员国和民主国家，绝对不会允许发生昨晚的那种事情，也不会允许他们现在以安全为由所做的事情。不过，我们也明确表示，我们相信乌克兰仍有出路，仍有可能挽救乌克兰在欧洲的未来。”