WASHINGTON — For five years, President Obama has consciously recast how America engages with the world’s toughest customers. But with Russia poised to annex Crimea after Sunday’s referendum, with a mounting threat to the rest of Ukraine and with the carnage in Syria accelerating, Mr. Obama’s strategy is now under greater stress than at any time in his presidency.
华盛顿——五年来，奥巴马总统有意重塑了美国与世界上最棘手势力打交道的方式。但是，随着俄罗斯准备在周日的公投后吞并克里米亚，乌克兰其他地区遭受的威胁持续加重，而且叙利亚的杀戮不断升级，奥巴马的战略现在所承受的压力比他上任以来任何时候都大。
In his first term, the White House described its approach as the “light footprint”: “Dumb wars” of occupation — how Mr. Obama once termed Iraq — were out. Drone strikes, cyberattacks and Special Operations raids that made use of America’s technological superiority were the new, quick-and-dirty expression of military and covert power. When he did agree to have American forces join the bombing of Libya in 2011, Mr. Obama insisted that NATO and Arab states “put skin in the game,” a phrase he vastly prefers to “leading from behind.”
在他的第一届任期中，白宫把奥巴马的策略称作“轻足迹”(light footprint)：“愚蠢的战争”侵略——奥巴马曾经这样说伊拉克战争——过时了。利用美国科技优势开展无人机袭击、网络攻击和特种部队袭击，才是干净利落地展示军事和隐秘实力的新手法。2011年，当他同意美国军队参加对利比亚的轰炸时，奥巴马坚持要求北约(NATO)和阿拉伯国家“亲自参与”，他喜欢这个词远远胜于“从后方领导”。
As he learned to play the long game, the Treasury Department became Mr. Obama’s favorite noncombatant command. It refined the art of the economic squeeze on Iran, eventually forcing the mullahs to the negotiating table.
随着奥巴马学会打持久战，财政部成为了他最喜欢的非战斗部门。它在伊朗改进了其钳制经济的手段，最终迫使伊朗人坐到了谈判桌旁。
But so far those tools — or even the threat of them — have proved frustratingly ineffective in the most recent crises. Sanctions and modest help to the Syrian rebels have failed to halt the slaughter; if anything, the killing worsened as negotiations dragged on.
但事实证明，在最近的危机中，这些工具——甚至它们起到的威慑作用——迄今为止毫不奏效，令人气馁。制裁和为叙利亚叛军提供少量援助并没有阻止屠杀的继续发生：如果说有什么影响的话，就是在谈判久拖不决的时候，杀戮已进一步恶化。
The White House was taken by surprise by Vladimir V. Putin’s decisions to invade Crimea, but also by China’s increasingly assertive declaration of exclusive rights to airspace and barren islands. Neither the economic pressure nor the cyberattacks that forced Iran to reconsider its approach have prevented North Korea’s stealthy revitalization of its nuclear and missile programs.
让白宫措手不的不仅是普京入侵克里米亚的决定，还有中国对领空和贫瘠小岛日益坚定的主权声明。迫使伊朗重新考虑其做法的经济压力和网络攻击，都没能阻止朝鲜暗中重启其核计划和导弹计划。
In short, America’s adversaries are testing the limits of America’s post-Iraq, post-Afghanistan moment.
总之，美国的对手们正在测试它在伊拉克、阿富汗战争后的底线。
“We’re seeing the ‘light footprint’ run out of gas,” said one of Mr. Obama’s former senior national security aides, who would not speak on the record about his ex-boss.
“我们看到‘轻足迹’燃料将尽。”奥巴马的一名前高级国家安全助手说，他不愿意以公开身份来谈论自己的前老板。
“No one is arguing for military action, for bringing back George Bush’s chest-thumping,” the former aide said. At the same time, he said, the president’s oft-repeated lines that those who violate international norms will be “isolated” and “pay a heavy price” over the long term have sounded “more like predictions over time, and less like imminent threats.”
“没有人主张军事行动，想重现乔治·布什(George Bush)那种豪言壮语，”这位前助手说。但他说，与此同时，奥巴马再三重申违反国际规范的人长期而言将被“孤立”，并且“付出沉重的代价”，这话听起来像“更像是对遥远未来的预测，而不是迫在眉睫的威胁”。
Not surprisingly, the testing of administration policy at a time the president is politically weakened at home has sparked a critical question. Is it Mr. Obama’s deliberative, pick-your-battles approach that is encouraging adversaries to press the limits? Or is this simply a time when exercising leverage over countries that defy American will or the international order is trickier than ever, and when the domestic pressure to stay out of international conflicts is obvious to overseas friends and foes alike?
毫不奇怪，正值奥巴马在国内政坛影响力下降的时候，这种对政府政策的考验提出了一个重要问题。奥巴马审慎的、“有选择地战斗”手法是在鼓励对手直逼底线吗？还是说只是时间凑巧，正值向违抗美国意愿或违背国际秩序的国家施加手段，变得比以往任何时候都更加棘手，也正值回避国际冲突的国内压力在盟友和敌人眼中都如此显而易见？
It is almost certainly some combination of the two. But the most stinging critique of Mr. Obama is that the pendulum has swung too far in the direction of nonintervention. Condoleezza Rice, President George W. Bush’s secretary of state, argues that five years of signaling that others need to step in, of stressing that America can no longer police the world, have taken a toll.
几乎可以肯定的是，这两方面原因都有。但对奥巴马最尖锐的批评是，他过于倾向“不干涉”了。前总统乔治·W·布什的国务卿康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)认为，美国连续五年释放信号要求别国介入，同时也担心自己无法继续维护世界秩序，这都已造成了影响。
“There was a view that if the United States pulled back and stopped ‘imposing’ and ‘insisting’ in the world, the vacuum would be filled by good things: the international community and the allies,” Ms. Rice said in a recent phone conversation from Stanford University, where she teaches. “But what has filled that space has been brutal dictators; extremist forces, especially in Iraq and Syria; and nationalism.”
“有一种观点认为，如果美国收手，不再在世界上‘强加’和‘坚持’一些事情，就会有国际社会和盟友这样的积极元素填补它留下的真空。”最近身在斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的赖斯在一次电话交谈中说道，她目前在该校任教。“但实际填补这个空间的是残酷的独裁者；极端势力，尤其是来自于伊拉克和叙利亚的极端势力；以及民族主义。”
Ms. Rice was enthusiastic about Mr. Obama’s election in 2008, and talked to him frequently during the transition. But she argues now that many of his decisions — such as abandoning a plan to strike Syria for its use of chemical weapons and proposing a defense budget that shrinks the Army to its lowest levels since World War II just as the Chinese announced a 12 percent increase in their military spending — send clear signals.
2008年时，赖斯对于奥巴马参选总统表现出了许多热情，并且在过渡期间跟他多次交谈。但现在，她认为他的很多决策——比如放弃对叙利亚使用化武进行打击，以及在中国宣布增加12%军费开支之际，他缩减国防预算，使得陆军兵力降到二战以来的最低水平——发出了明确的信号。
“Asia’s in an all-out nationalist mood that’s the real cost of American withdrawal,” she argues.
“亚洲正全面笼罩在民族主义情绪中，这是美国撤退的真实代价，”她表示。
That perception, right or wrong, is shared by some traditional allies. The Israelis worry there is diminished interest in keeping American aircraft carriers in the Persian Gulf, and fear that if a nuclear deal is struck with Iran, Washington will no longer anchor an alliance to contain Tehran. The Saudis are talking anew about the possibility of needing a nuclear deterrent of their own.
美国的一些传统盟友也持有这种看法，无论它是对是错。以色列人担心美国在波斯湾保留航母的兴趣减小，并且担心如果跟伊朗达成核协议，华盛顿将不再领导一个联盟来遏制伊朗。沙特正在重新讨论，是否可能需要自己的核威慑力。
Mr. Obama and his senior staff members tell a very different story — one in which the president has capitalized on the benefits of getting out of Iraq, and almost out of Afghanistan, to employ more subtle, smarter tools of national power. The “pivot to Asia,” which has been slow to materialize, was supposed to be emblematic of a new combination of soft and hard power; it was as much about building trade relationships as making it clear to the Chinese leadership that America has no intention of ceding the East and South China Seas as areas where Beijing could expect to become the sole power.
奥巴马及其工作人员的说法却大相径庭——他们表示，总统已经利用了撤离伊拉克，以及几乎撤离阿富汗的好处，开始调遣国家实力中一些更加微妙、更加智能的工具。实施较为缓慢的“转向亚洲”(pivot to Asia)策略，应该是新型的软、硬实力组合的一个象征；这不仅关乎贸易关系的建立，还同样向中国领导人清楚地表明，美国无意在东海和南海问题上让步，北京也别想在这些区域行使唯一主权。
The latest budget invests more in drones and cyber and Special Operations forces, and pares back on conventional troops and the equipment for long land wars.
最新的军费预算在无人机、网络和特种部队上进行了更多投入，同时削减了对常规部队和长期陆战设备的开支。
“If we are constantly overextending ourselves, chasing every crisis, we’re not going to be able to play the long game required for American primacy,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser.
“如果我们将经历分散在太多项目上，积极追踪每一次危机，我们就没法去打保障美国主导地位的持久战了，”副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说。
Foreign leaders say they see America’s unwillingness to act as the inevitable backlash of too many years at war. “In the past decade we’ve seen the consequences and the limits of taking action,” said David Miliband, the former British foreign secretary who now runs the International Rescue Committee, as he described his organization’s efforts to help an overwhelming influx of refugees over Syria’s borders. “Here we’re seeing the consequences and limits of inaction.”
外国领导人说，他们认为，美国不愿意采取行动是它参与战争太多年的必然反弹。“在过去的十年中，我们已经看到了采取行动的后果和局限性，”英国前外交大臣、管理国际救援委员会(International Rescue Committee)的戴维·米利班德(Ed Miliband)说，他是在描述该组织如何为大批穿越叙利亚边境的难民提供帮助时讲这番话的。“在这里，我们看到的是不作为的后果和局限性。”