Yuri V. Lutsenko, a one-time field commander of Ukraine’s 2004 Orange Revolution, looked out across the tens of thousands of people who gathered on Sunday to protest the government’s decision to back away from a far-reaching political and trade deal with the European Union. Standing onstage under an ash-streaked sky, Mr. Lutsenko felt a powerful sense of déjà vu — and a deep need to apologize.
尤里·V·卢岑科(Yuri V. Lutsenko)曾经是2004年乌克兰橙色革命的现场指挥，上个周日，他看着数万民众聚集起来，抗议政府放弃跟欧盟达成具有深远意义的政治和贸易协议的决定。天是灰蒙蒙的，站在台上的卢岑科强烈地感到此情此景似曾相识——一股深深的歉意涌上心头。
“I am sure that every person who stood at the glorious Orange Square nine years ago has to do the same,” he told the crowd. “I would like you to accept my personal apologies for what was not finished.”
他告诉群众说，“我相信，九年前站在恢弘的橙色广场的每个人，今天又会站出来。我希望你能够接受我个人的道歉，因为有些事情至今未能完成。”
For the second time in a decade, Ukraine is in turmoil, with tens of thousands of protesters in recent days loudly demanding that the country shake off its post-Soviet identity and move once and for all into the orbit of a more prosperous Europe.
这是十年以来乌克兰第二次陷入这种骚动之中，近些天来，数万示威者高声要求国家摆脱后苏维埃时代的印记，决然地进入欧洲这个更繁荣的运行轨道上。
They exploded in anger last week when their leaders, buckling under pressure from Moscow, said they would walk away from a deal that many here, especially the young, see as a vital step in escaping the clutches of the Kremlin and joining fellow ex-satellite countries of Eastern Europe on a path to modernization and greater wealth.
上周，愤怒的人们爆发了，因为他们的领导人屈服于来自莫斯科的压力，表示将不再与欧盟达成协议。而在很多人，特别是年轻人看来，这项协议是逃离克里姆林宫的控制，追随东欧其他往日卫星国的足迹，走上现代化和富裕道路的关键一步。
At stake here is not just the fate of a free-trade pact but whether the hardball tactics of Russia, willing to use very bit of economic muscle — including trade threats and its stranglehold on energy supplies — to exert blunt force in negotiations, will prevail over the national aspirations of millions of people.
此事不仅关系到一个自由贸易协定的命运，俄罗斯为了对谈判施加影响而采取的强硬策略——包括贸易威胁和能源供应上的钳制手段，能否压过万千国人的民心所向，也是一个关键。
The effort to draw in Ukraine and other ex-Soviet republics is also crucial to Europe, which has invested heavily in it and can ill afford a humiliating defeat at a time when its stature is already being called into doubt by the continuing economic strains within the euro zone.
对于欧洲来说，争取乌克兰和其他前苏维埃共和国的努力也是非常重要的，为此他们已经投入了大量资源，而且欧元区内经济持续走软，欧盟声望已然受到质疑，这个时候已经无法承受这种羞辱性的失败。
Many Ukrainians say they regard the country’s political leaders since the end of the Soviet era to be a collective failure. At the same time, they say they recognize the constraints of being almost entirely dependent on Russia for energy, especially natural gas for heat, as well as the historic burden of being home to vital Russian military assets, including major installations for its Black Sea fleet.
许多乌克兰人表示，从苏维埃时代结束以来，该国的政治领导人就被认为是群体性的失败。与此同时，人们表示，他们也知道自己所受到的限制：该国在能源，特别是取暖的天然气上几乎完全仰仗俄罗斯，同时，作为历史遗留问题，乌克兰还是俄罗斯军力的重要驻扎地，其中黑海舰队大部分就部署在这里。
“The foundation has to be completely changed in our country, so that it would not remain a post-Soviet barrack temporarily repainted in yellow and blue,” Mr. Lutsenko told the crowd, referring to the colors of the country’s flag. “We have to understand that not only the president has to be changed but the entire system.”
卢岑科指着国旗的颜色，告诉群众们说，“我们国家的基础必须进行彻底的改变，这样，这个国家才不再是暂时刷成了黄蓝两色的后苏维埃时代的军营。我们必须明白，要换掉的不只是总统，还有整个体制。”
Mr. Lutsenko knows the perils of the system well. From his role as field commander, he went on to serve as a leader in Parliament and as the interior minister, under President Viktor A. Yushchenko, who was poisoned by dioxin in an assassination attempt during the disputed 2004 election. After Viktor F. Yanukovich, the revolution’s antihero, won the presidency in 2010, Mr. Lutsenko was arrested and jailed on abuse of authority charges, only to be pardoned earlier this year as Mr. Yanukovich came under pressure from the West.
卢岑科深知体制之恶。在担任现场指挥之后，他进而担任议会领袖，并在维克托·A·尤先科 (Viktor A. Yushchenko)总统任内担任内政部长，而这位总统曾在2004年富有争议的大选时遭暗杀未遂，受到二噁英毒害。2010年总统选举，之前革命中的反英雄人物维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovich)当选，卢岑科旋即被捕，以滥用职权的罪名下狱，直到亚努科维奇受到西方压力，才于今年早些时候获得赦免。
Supporters of European integration had been pinning their hopes on the political and trade agreements, which had been in the works for more than four years, and Mr. Yanukovich had long talked about signing them at a major conference that begins on Thursday in Vilnius, Lithuania.
支持融入欧洲的人将希望寄托于那些政治和贸易协议上。协议谈判进行了四年多时间，亚努科维奇一直都表示将会在本周四立陶宛维尔纽斯的一场重要会议上签署这些协议。
Taras Berezovets, a political consultant whose clients include members of Parliament, said expectations were raised by the president, partly with an eye to the 2015 election.
塔拉斯·贝热佐维茨(Taras Berezovets)是一位政治顾问，其客户包括了一些国会议员。他说，总统吊起了人们的胃口，部分原因是他瞄准了2015年的大选。
“Yanukovich promised them something; he promised them Europe,” Mr. Berezovets said in an interview.
贝热佐维茨在一次访问中表示，“亚努科维奇向人们做出了保证；欧洲是他承诺的。”
Ukraine’s domestic politics are deeply complicated by ethno-cultural, religious and linguistic divisions. The mostly Russian-speaking and Russian Orthodox eastern and southern sections of the country tend to favor close ties with Moscow. In the West, Ukrainian speakers predominate, the Ukrainian Catholic Church has many adherents and Russia is regarded with suspicion or even hostility.
在民族文化、宗教和语言等分歧之下，乌克兰国内政治环境愈发复杂。该国东部和南部地区主要说俄语，信奉俄罗斯东正教，倾向于跟莫斯科保持密切的联系。而西部说乌克兰语的占绝大多数，乌克兰天主教信众甚多，人们不信任俄罗斯，甚至怀有敌意。
In Kiev on Wednesday, there were scattered reports of protesters clashing with the riot police. Also, the jailed former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, said she had begun a hunger strike in support of protesters.
周三在基辅，有零星报道指抗议示威者与防暴警察发生了冲突。同时，在狱中的前总理尤利娅·V.·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)表示，她已经开始绝食以声援示威者。
Ukraine is also a country with a bloody and tragic history. Experts say about 7.5 million people died in Ukraine during World War II. Throughout its history, it has been dominated by larger powers, including Austria-Hungary and the Soviet Union. Ukraine has also been a major battleground, including a devastating 30-year stretch of war in the 1600s that involved Russians, Cossacks, Poles and Turks.
乌克兰还是一个经历了血腥和悲惨历史的国家。专家说，二战期间乌克兰有将近750万人死亡。该国历史上一直被势力更大的霸权统治，包括奥匈帝国和苏联。乌克兰也一直是战争的主战场，包括了十七世纪那场延续三十年，将俄国人、哥萨克人、波兰人和土耳其人悉数卷入的毁灭性战争。
Russia’s desire to dominate is taken for granted in Ukraine. “This problem is going on for several hundred years; Ukraine lives in a polygon between Moscow, Istanbul and Warsaw,” Mr. Lutsenko said in an interview. “Figuratively speaking, the two heads of the Russian eagle from its coat of arms are looking in different directions, but every day they try to bite Ukraine.”
俄罗斯统治乌克兰的想法被认为是理所当然的。卢岑科在一次访问时说，“这是一个持续几百年的问题了；乌克兰生活在一个多边形里，被莫斯科、伊斯坦布尔和华沙夹在中间。形象地说，俄罗斯纹章上的双头鹰虽然看着不同的方向，但是每时每刻都想着要咬乌克兰一口。”
He said Russia used several levers of power, including its ability to egg on separatist movements in the Ukrainian south, the Russian Orthodox Church’s ability to stoke unrest, the possibility of levying trade sanctions and, of course, the ability to shut down natural gas pipelines.
他还说，俄罗斯使用了多管齐下的控制手段，包括俄罗斯可以去怂恿乌克兰南部的分离主义运动，俄罗斯东正教有能力加剧动荡，有可能施加经济制裁，当然，还包括可以关闭天然气管线。