KIEV, Ukraine — Tens of thousands of people marched through downtown Kiev on Sunday to protest the government’s decision last week to abandon far-reaching political and free trade agreements with the European Union and instead focus on improving economic ties with Russia.
乌克兰基辅——数万人在周日走上基辅市中心街头，抗议政府上周放弃和欧盟(European Union)签署意义重大的政治和自由贸易协议，转而致力于改善和俄罗斯的经济联系。
Waving European Union flags, as well as the flags of Ukraine’s main opposition parties, a sea of demonstrators chanting “Ukraine is Europe!” marched from Shevchenko Park through Independence Square, the main site of Ukraine’s 2004 Orange Revolution, and on to European Square for a rally in front of Ukrainian House, a well-known building that houses a convention center.
抗议人群挥舞着欧盟以及一些乌克兰主要反对党的旗帜，从舍甫琴科公园出发，一路高喊“乌克兰是欧洲！”穿过2004年发起乌克兰橙色革命的主要场所独立广场，向欧洲广场行进，最终在著名的“乌克兰大厦”(Ukrainian House)前举行集会，那里是一座会议中心的所在地。
Clusters of riot police officers were deployed along the route, drawing jeers from marchers but not interfering with the event.
游行路线沿途部署了大量防暴警察，他们引来了游行者的嘲弄，不过并没有出手干预。
“For young people, the future is brighter with Europe,” said Maria Lyskenko, 20, a student, who stood with her friend, Alyona Zorina, also 20, holding a sign that said, “Europe = Future Ukraine.”
“在年轻人看来，和欧洲在一起的未来更光明，”现年20岁的学生玛丽亚·赖斯琴科(Maria Lyskenko)说，她身边站着她的朋友艾罗娜·佐里娜(Alyona Zorina)，后者也是20岁，手里举着一块标语牌，写着“欧洲=未来乌克兰”。
Ms. Zorina said that President Viktor F. Yanukovich was acting out of selfishness and self-interest in deciding not to sign the agreements with the European Union. “He’s more interested in his own business dealings with Russia,” she said.
佐里娜说维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovich)总统拒绝与欧盟签署协议是出于自私自利的目的。“他更在乎的是他自己跟俄罗斯的交易，”她说。
The political and trade accords, which had been in development for more than four years, had been scheduled to be signed later this week at a major conference in Vilnius, Lithuania. But, on Wednesday, the Ukrainian government announced that it had suspended its plans to complete the agreements.
这份政治和贸易协议已经酝酿了四年有余，原定于本周晚些时候在立陶宛维尔纽斯的一次大型会议上签署。然而乌克兰政府在周三宣布暂缓执行签署协议的计划。
On Sunday evening, several thousand protesters were engaged in a standoff with a phalanx of police outside the Cabinet of Ministers building. Some tussled with the officers, who were wearing gas masks, and tear gas was sprayed, but it was unclear whether the police or protesters had used it. At one point, a lit flare was thrown at the police in gas masks who were blocking access to the building, and a flagpole was knocked down.
周日晚间，数千名抗议者在内阁大楼外和警察人墙对峙。一些人和戴着防毒面具的警察发生争执，有人在喷催泪瓦斯，但不确定是警方还是示威者在使用。有人向戴着防毒面具挡在大楼门口的警察扔了一颗闪光弹，冲突中有一根旗杆被撞倒。
The police reacted with restraint and there were no immediate reports of arrests. Some demonstrators, however, said that tension was building.
警方的反应非常克制，现场没有观察到有人被逮捕。然而一些抗议者说紧张的气氛正在积聚。
“The situation in society is boiling,” said Svyatoslav Tseholko, a television host and chief projects editor of Ukraine’s Channel 5, who attended the demonstration wearing a blue-and-yellow ribbon. “And we don’t know when is the time the top will pop off.”
“现在社会局势日趋紧张，”电视节目主持人、乌克兰第五频道(Channel 5)首席项目编辑斯维亚托斯拉夫·塞霍尔科(Svyatoslav Tseholko)说，他也戴着蓝黄色丝带参加了示威活动。“我们不知道什么时候会爆发。”
Mr. Tseholko was urging demonstrators outside the Cabinet of Ministers building to remain calm and not resort to violence against the police, but he said that he understood the crowd’s anger over the decision to back away from the accords under pressure from Russia.
塞霍尔科呼吁在内阁大楼外的示威者保持冷静，不要与警察发生暴力冲突，但是他说政府在俄罗斯的施压下放弃协议，人们如此愤怒是情有可原的。
“It’s a sign that Ukraine can lose its statehood; it can lose its independence,” he said. “And if we lose our independence, we lose everything.”
“这是乌克兰失去主权的一个征兆；它会失去独立性，”他说。“没有了独立，我们就什么都没有了。”
In a sign of solidarity with the protesters, one of the country’s main news sites, Ukrainska Pravada — Ukrainian Truth — changed the name at the top of its home page to Evropeiska Pravada: European Truth.
为了表示对抗议者的支持，乌克兰最大的新闻网站之一“乌克兰真相”(Ukrainska Pravada)在主页上将自己的站名改为“欧洲真相”(Evropeiska Pravada)。
Blue and yellow were the colors of the day, as some marchers wrapped themselves in the sky-blue and pale-yellow flag of Ukraine, while others wore the dark-blue flag with yellow stars of the European Union.
蓝色和黄色是当天的流行色，一些参加示威游行的人身披天蓝和暗黄色的乌克兰国旗，还有一些人披着带黄星的深蓝色欧盟旗。
“Ukrainians want to live as Europe,” said Wladimir Klitschko, who was standing in at the rally for his brother, the boxing champion Vitali Klitschko, who is a member of Parliament and leads the political party Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform. (Its acronym, UDAR, spells a word meaning “punch.”)
“乌克兰人想过上欧洲的生活，”瓦拉迪米尔·克利奇科(Wladimir Klitschko)说，他和他的哥哥、拳击冠军维塔利·克利奇科(Vitali Klitschko)一同参加了游行，后者是国会议员，领导着一个名叫乌克兰改革民主同盟的政党（Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform，缩写UDAR有“挥拳”的意思）。
Some demonstrators said the protests would continue at least until Friday on the slim hope that Mr. Yanukovich will resurrect the agreements and sign them.
一些示威者说，抗议活动至少要持续到周五，他们还心存一线希望，认为亚努科维奇会重提协议并签署它。
On Friday, Prime Minister Mykola Azarov said that harsh terms set by the International Monetary Fund for a financial aid package were the “last straw” that led to ditching the agreements. But critics said the reason was intense pressure from Russia, which had maneuvered forcefully to derail the agreements.
米克拉·阿扎罗夫(Mykola Azarov)总理在周五说，国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)就一项财政援助方案给出的苛刻条款，是导致协议被弃的“最后一根稻草”。但批评人士说，俄罗斯的高压才是原因所在，他们采取了强力手段迫使协议搁浅。
Another crucial factor was the country’s domestic politics. As a condition for signing the accords, European officials had demanded the release of Ukraine’s jailed former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, a main rival of Mr. Yanukovich’s.
乌克兰国内政治也是一个关键的因素。欧盟方面为协议签署提出的一个条件是释放前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)，此人是亚努科维奇的一个大敌。
According to European officials, Russia had threatened to retaliate with trade sanctions that would have been particularly damaging to eastern Ukraine, a main base of support for Mr. Yanukovich.
据欧盟官员称，俄罗斯威胁会用贸易制裁作为报复，届时乌克兰东部蒙受的损失会格外巨大，而亚努科维奇在那里有众多支持者。
President Vladimir V. Putin and other Russian officials have denied strong-arming Ukraine. Mr. Putin said he had merely pointed out that a free-trade agreement between Ukraine and Europe would require Russia to take steps to prevent its market from being flooded with cheap European goods.
包括弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统在内的一些俄罗斯官员都否认他们在胁迫乌克兰。普京说他所做的无非是指出，如果乌克兰和欧洲签订自由贸易协议，那么俄罗斯就只能采取行动，防止它的市场遭到来自欧洲的廉价商品的冲击。
The Kremlin has urged former Soviet republics that have been in talks with Europe, including Ukraine and Moldova, to instead consider joining a customs union that Russia has formed with Kazakhstan and Belarus.
克里姆林宫对那些在和欧洲谈判的前苏联共和国——包括乌克兰和摩尔多瓦——发出了呼吁，说它们应该考虑加入俄罗斯与哈萨克斯坦、白俄罗斯组建的关税同盟。