DONETSK, Ukraine — The new Ukrainian government struck the separatists in this eastern province with a major military offensive on Monday, battling them over an important provincial airport in ground fighting that lasted for hours. The rebels were left scattered and shaken, just one day after a successful national election they had tried to disrupt.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——周一，乌克兰新政府对东部顿涅茨克州的分裂分子发动大规模军事攻势，在争夺该州一个重要机场的数小时地面战斗中击败后者。叛乱分子被打得落花流水，就在前一天，他们刚刚试图阻挠一次成功的全国选举。
The airport battle was the first time the Ukrainian military had moved so aggressively against the separatists, who took over government buildings in two eastern provinces in March, after weeks of low-grade military maneuvers meant to stop their spread to other areas.
机场的战斗是乌克兰军方第一次对分裂分子发动如此强势的攻击，后者于今年3月占领了东部两州的一些政府建筑。此前数周，政府一直在进行低级别的军事调动，目的是防止分裂活动扩散到其他地区。
There was no immediate indication that the Ukrainian military’s operations extended any further than the strategically important airport and surrounding area. Experts said that while the military’s attack might have put the separatists on the defensive, it was unlikely to stop their power.
没有直接迹象表明，乌克兰军队的行动延伸到了前述战略性机场和周边区域之外。专家表示，军方的攻击可能会让分裂分子转入守势，但不太可能瓦解他们的势力。
As fighting lasted into a rainy evening, the military claimed to have evicted the separatists from the airport, and had cordoned off the area with roadblocks. But the sporadic sounds of weapons fire could still be heard, and it was not clear that government soldiers were in full control. The airport remained closed, and some local news outlets reported that it was burning.
随着战斗持续到雨夜，军方声称已将分裂分子逐出机场，并用路障在机场实施了警戒。不过，人们依然能听到零星交火，目前也不清楚政府军是否已全面控制机场。该机场依然处于关闭状态，据当地的一些新闻机构报道，机场着了火。
“I don’t see this ending anytime soon,” said Oxana Shevel, a political science professor who specializes in Ukraine at Tufts University in Boston. “The Ukrainian government is saying, This is where we draw the line.” Its ability to retake the airport, she said, “doesn’t dramatically change things.”
“我认为，这种情况不会很快结束。”波士顿塔夫茨大学(Tufts University)专门研究乌克兰的政治学教授奥克萨娜·舍韦尔(Oxana Shevel)说。“乌克兰政府此举的意思是，这就是我们的底线。”她说，乌政府夺回机场的能力“并不能让情况发生显著的改变。”
Even so, the routing of the rebels from the airport changed the optics of the situation here in favor of the Ukrainian military, which had suffered setbacks for weeks, and had been seen by many Ukrainians as ineffectual.
即便如此，由于叛乱分子已被逐出机场，本地公众对局势的看法转向了有利于乌军的一面，乌军此前遭受了几周的挫败，被许多乌克兰人视为无用之师。
Fighter jets screamed and automatic gunfire popped for hours in and around the airport, with ground battles against separatists spilling outside its tall black gate. Thick black smoke dotted the sky and helicopters flew just above the trees, shaking small houses and blowing the grasses in their garden plots.
在机场周边和内部，战斗机的尖啸声和自动武器的砰砰声持续了几个小时，与分裂分子的地面战斗扩散到了机场高高的黑色大门之外。空中点缀着浓重的黑烟，直升机几乎是在贴着树顶飞行，把小房子震得摇摇晃晃，刮起了房子花园里的草皮。
The rebel seizure of the airport early Monday suggested a new escalation by the militants who in recent days have appeared to lose the political support of the Kremlin, at least publicly. On Friday, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia suggested that he would respect the results of Sunday’s election, in which Petro O. Poroshenko, a Ukrainian billionaire who knows Mr. Putin, was elected in a landslide. Many here say separatist leaders had grown confident after months of swaggering across the provinces with virtually no pushback from central authorities.
叛乱分子于周一一早占领机场，此举意味着激进分子的行动再度升级。近些天，他们似乎已失去俄罗斯的政治支持，至少从公开角度来看是这样。周五，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)表示，他会尊重周日的选举结果。周日的选举当中，与普京相识的乌克兰亿万富翁佩德罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)以一边倒的优势当选为总统。许多本地人表示，在此之前，分裂分子首领的信心一直在增长，原因是他们在东部两州横行了好几个月，几乎没有受到中央政府的打压。
The fractious groups are not directly under Mr. Putin’s control, and the Kremlin has denied that its military is involved in the conflict here. But support can come in many forms, and it is far from clear that Mr. Putin has any intention of giving up what appears to be a useful geopolitical lever: violence and instability in Ukraine’s east that has left the West flustered.
这些桀骜不驯的组织并不直接受控于普京，俄罗斯也否认俄军介入了此间的冲突。不过，支持可以表现为多种形式，外界远远没有搞清，普京是否已打算放弃这个似乎于己有益的地缘政治杠杆，也就是让西方惊慌失措的乌克兰东部暴力活动和不稳局势。
“What Putin wants is for Ukraine to be weak,” said Lucan A. Way, a political scientist at the University of Toronto who specializes in Ukraine and has lived in Donetsk. “Just because he gives verbal support for the new Ukrainian government does not mean that he will stop trying to foment unrest in the east.”
“普京想要的是一个虚弱的乌克兰。”专门研究乌克兰的多伦多大学(University of Toronto)政治学家卢肯·A·韦(Lucan A. Way)说，他曾在顿涅茨克居住。“他在口头上对乌克兰新政府表示支持，并不足以表明他会停止在东部煽动动乱。”
By issuing statements of support, Mr. Putin “gets to look like a statesman,” and blame whatever problems emerge on the new government, Professor Way said. “He has created a Frankenstein that he cannot control, and may not even want to,” he said.
韦表示，通过发表声明表示支持，普京“可以显示政治家的风范”，还可以将未来的所有问题归咎于新政府。韦说，“他创造了一个他无法控制甚或不想控制的弗兰肯斯坦(Frankenstein)。”
Many in Ukraine had feared that Mr. Putin sought the eastern regions themselves, and was putting troops in position to potentially seize them in the same way he did Crimea, the southern peninsula on the Black Sea that Russia annexed two months ago, setting off a major international confrontation.
很多乌克兰人担心，普京想要的是东部地区本身，并且正在部署军队，可能会以夺占克里米亚的方式夺占这些地区。俄罗斯两个月前吞并了这个濒临黑海的乌克兰南部半岛，引发了重大的国际冲突。
But a subtler maneuver is now emerging, and many experts believe that the most desirable result for Mr. Putin would be for the troubled areas to devolve into breakaway status, similar to South Ossetia within Georgia and Transnistria within Moldova, a possibility that ordinary citizens are already talking about.
然而，一种更加微妙的策略正在浮现，很多专家都认为，普京最想看到的是这个混乱地区陷入分裂状态，类似于格鲁吉亚的南奥塞梯，以及摩尔多瓦的德涅斯特河沿岸地区。普通民众已经在谈论这个可能性。
“It’s a mess, it’s anarchy,” said Yevgeny Kaplenko, a retired welder, who stood near his small brick house and yard planted with roses near the airport, as gunfire popped. “This is going to be a second Transnistria. That’s what awaits us.”
“简直是一团乱麻，无法无天，” 退休焊工叶夫根耶夫 ·卡普连科(Yevgeny Kaplenko)说。“这将会成为第二个德涅斯特河沿岸地区。等待我们的就是这样的结果。”说话时，卡普连科站在自己位于机场附近的小砖房和小院旁边，院子里种着玫瑰，枪炮声从四周传来。
That outcome would be considered poisonous by many Ukrainians, and would likely have far more serious repercussions for the world, given Ukraine’s enormous size, severe economic problems and geopolitically strategic location in the heart of Europe.
这样的结果会让很多乌克兰人深恶痛绝，还可能给世界造成远比如今严重的影响，原因是乌克兰幅员辽阔，经济问题严重，又处于极具地缘战略意义的欧洲中心位置。
“Putin doesn’t want to take these regions and foot the bill for all these old industries,” Professor Shevel said. “He would rather there be instability, which makes Ukraine less attractive to Europe and makes it easier to extract concessions from the government.”
“普京并不想吞并这些地区，为所有这些陈旧的产业买单，”舍韦尔说，“他更希望这里一片混乱，如此一来，乌克兰对欧洲的吸引力就会减弱，逼迫乌克兰政府让步也会更加容易。”
The rebels seemed shaken by the forcefulness of the military response. At the Donetsk government headquarters, nervous separatists briefed journalists.
此次强有力的军事回应似乎让叛乱分子受到了震撼。在顿涅茨克政府大楼，紧张的分裂分子向记者做了情况说明。
“I am forced to appeal directly to Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin for any possible aid,” said Denis Pushilin, the speaker of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic. When asked what kind of aid — military or economic — he said, “any.”
擅自成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国的发言人丹尼斯·普希林(Denis Pushilin)表示，“我被迫直接恳求弗拉基米尔·弗拉基米罗维奇·普京(Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin)，请他提供任何可能的援助。”记者问及他要求哪种援助，军事援助还是经济援助，他回答称，“任何援助。”
Late Monday night, a Ukrainian military spokesman, Alexei Dmitrashkovsky, said by telephone that the army had established full control over the airport and that several of the militant leaders had requested safe passage, including one known by the nickname, Abver, described as a Russian passport holder. That claim could not be corroborated.
周一深夜，乌克兰军队发言人阿列克谢·德米特什科夫斯基(Alexei Dmitrash几名kovsky)通过电话表示，乌克兰军队已经完全控制机场，几名激进分子首领已请求乌军提供安全通道，其中包括绰号为阿布弗尔(Abver)的首领，此人据称拥有俄罗斯护照。这一说法无法得到核实。
At the city’s main trauma hospital, a woman wearing a flak jacket with a medical cross and carrying a holstered pistol said curtly that the wounded, whom she claimed numbered less than 10, had been taken to other hospitals.
在该市主要的创伤医院，一名身穿带有医疗十字标记防弹衣、手拿枪套的女性简略地表示，受伤人员不超过十人，并已被送往其他医院。