KIEV, Ukraine — AT this very moment, in plain view of the entire world, the final demise of the Soviet empire is unfolding. The plan for its resurrection, long in the works at the Kremlin, has failed: Ukraine has proved that it has matured into an independent state that will determine its own domestic and foreign policy.
乌克兰基辅——此时此刻，全世界都可以清晰地看到苏维埃帝国正在走向最后的覆灭。克里姆林宫一直在努力实施的帝国复兴计划已经失败：乌克兰证明自己长大了，已经成为一个独立的国家，可以主宰自己的国内和外交政策。
It was when Viktor F. Yanukovych, then president, refused to listen to the pro-European yearnings of Ukrainians that the mass protests erupted in Kiev in the fall of 2013. It was when Mr. Yanukovych decided, with the active support of Russia, to resort to force that he lost control of the situation. And it was when Mr. Yanukovych crossed the line and unleashed gunfire against his own people that he lost his legitimacy as the president.
是时任总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)拒绝倾听乌克兰人加入欧盟的渴望，这才引发了2013年秋天在基辅的大规模抗议活动。是亚努科维奇在俄罗斯的积极支持下决定诉诸武力，这才导致他失去了对局势的掌控。也是亚努科维奇不择手段，向自己的人民开枪，才使他失去了作为总统的合法性。
The Kremlin had a strategy designed to weaken Ukraine and its government by prying some regions away from Kiev’s control and establishing enclaves in the south and east similar to Transnistria in Moldova and Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia. Russia needs these frozen conflicts in order to prevent the normal development of the post-Soviet republics and to impede their integration into European and NATO structures.
克里姆林宫的一项策略是把某些地区从基辅手中抢走，在东部和南部建立类似于摩尔多瓦的德涅斯特河沿岸地区、格鲁吉亚的阿布哈兹和南奥塞梯的飞地，从而削弱乌克兰。俄罗斯需要这种僵持的冲突，以便防止后苏联时代的各个共和国进入正常的发展轨道，阻碍它们并入欧洲和北约(NATO)的体系。
Moscow’s plan has been foiled. The people of Ukraine proved stronger than a dictator who had been groomed for the role of a puppet ruler. The opposition quickly gained control of the situation, consolidating the authority of Parliament and legitimately appointing a new government. This prompt action calmed the protests within the country, yet it also prompted foreign aggression.
莫斯科的计划已被挫败。事实证明，在作为傀儡扶植起来的独裁者面前，乌克兰人民更强大。反对派势力迅速掌握了局势，巩固了议会的权力，并依法设立了一个新政府。及时的行动平息了国内的抗议活动，但也引来外国的侵略。
The chronology of events is telling: On Feb. 21, the Ukrainian Constitution of 2004 was reinstated; on Feb. 27, we formed a national unity government; and on Feb. 28, Russian troops moved outside their bases to occupy the Crimean Peninsula. At the same time, Russian forces have massed along the Ukrainian border.
事件的先后顺序很说明问题：2月21日，乌克兰的2004年宪法被恢复；2月27日，我们组建了一个全国联合政府；2月28日，俄罗斯军队离开基地，占领了克里米亚半岛。与此同时，俄罗斯还屯兵乌克兰边境。
This brazen and unjustified aggression, thinly veiled as “protecting Russian speakers,” pursues an obvious goal: to weaken and dismember Ukraine, to create another zone of instability in Europe and to arrest the process of European integration. Moscow’s purpose, in other words, is to prevent the final demise of the Soviet empire.
这种无耻且无理的侵略行径有一个半遮半掩的理由，叫“保护俄语居民”，其实它的目标很明确：削弱和肢解乌克兰，在欧洲创造又一个不稳定区域，妨碍欧洲一体化进程。换句话说，莫斯科的目的是阻止苏维埃帝国的最后覆灭。
In Crimea, Russian troops have blockaded our government buildings, taken over our communications infrastructure and seized our military bases and weapons depots — all the while provoking Ukraine to respond with force and provide a pretext for a full-scale military invasion by Russia. These tactics bear a close resemblance to those deployed in South Ossetia and Abkhazia during the 2008 Russia-Georgia war.
在克里米亚，俄罗斯军队已经封锁了我们的政府大楼，接管了我们的通讯基础设施，并且夺取了我们的军事基地和军火库——与此同时还希望挑起乌克兰的武力还击，从而为俄罗斯的全面军事入侵提供借口。这些都跟2008年俄罗斯-格鲁吉亚战争中在南奥塞梯和阿布哈兹采取的手段极为相似。
The Ukrainian military and government have done everything possible to avoid this trap and keep the peace. No one should doubt that Ukrainians are prepared to defend their country. But the memory of our people’s terrible losses during the protests in Kiev is still fresh; we cannot permit more bloodshed.
乌克兰军方和政府在尽一切可能避免落入这个圈套，维持住和平的局面。乌克兰人已经做好保卫祖国的准备，这一点不容置疑。但基辅抗议活动中的死难者尸骨未寒；我们不能容许再出现流血事件了。
We are fully aware that, should force be used, containing the situation would be impossible. The resolve of Ukrainians to die defending their country, the large stockpiles of weapons, the country’s nuclear power stations and the strategic gas pipelines all point to the potential magnitude of a disaster.
我们非常清楚，一旦使用了武力，局势将一发不可收拾。乌克兰人誓死保卫祖国的决心，庞大的武器储备，国内的核电站和重要的天然气管道，全都指出了一场灾难的潜在规模。