LASPI, Ukraine — Chased from his sumptuous villa outside the Ukrainian capital and last sighted searching for a sanctuary here on the Crimea Peninsula, Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former president, suffered a final indignity Tuesday: the masons and electricians he had hired to build a seaside retreat in a historic, old-growth forest decided that he would never pay his bills and started hauling away their equipment and materials.
乌克兰拉斯皮——乌克兰前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)被民众从奢华的豪宅里赶了出来，上一次被人见到时，他正在克里米亚半岛上寻找庇护所。周二，亚努科维奇受到了最后的羞辱。他曾雇佣了一些石匠和电工，为他在海滨一片古老的森林中建造一座别墅，但这些工匠认为他永远不会再付账了，于是开始撤走设备和建材。
The mansion, still under construction but even bigger than the palatial presidential residence outside Kiev that was overrun by protesters over the weekend, had been at least two years in the making, a gargantuan folly of excess just down the Crimean coast from the former summer palace of Russia's toppled imperial family.
这座位于克里米亚海滨的豪宅至少已经建设了两年，现在尚未完工，距离这里不远的海边，就是过去沙俄皇室修建的避暑行宫。这所建筑以宏大的规模展现了不加收敛的荒唐审美，甚至比基辅市郊那座周末刚被示威者闯入的富丽堂皇的总统宅邸还要大。
Its main hall has a 40-foot-high ceiling and majestic view of the Black Sea, while living quarters downstairs feature an indoor swimming pool, a big hole for a hot tub and walls thick enough to withstand an armed attack.
大厅的天花板有40英尺（约合12米）高，从屋里能够看到黑海的恢弘景象，楼下的居住区里有一座室内游泳池、一个用来洗热水澡的大浴池，还有厚度足以抵御武装袭击的墙壁。
With the interiors still unfinished, instructions left on the walls by builders identify what kind of flooring was to have been laid in each room, a mix of marble and wooden parquet.
内部装饰还没有完工，建筑工人在墙壁上留下的指示标明了每个房间应该使用哪种地板材料。有些是大理石地面，有些是木地板。
“I thought it would be grand, but not this grand,” said Dimtri Pilti, the dismayed owner of an electrical goods shop in Sevastopol, a nearby Crimean city, who visited the building site Tuesday as workmen began loading trucks with tiles, boxes of screws, metal wire casings and just about anything else that contractors could salvage from the abruptly frozen construction project.
在克里米亚的临近城市塞瓦斯托波尔拥有一家电器商店的季米特里·皮尔迪(Dimtri Pilti)说，“我觉得会很大，但没想到会这么大。”皮尔迪周二刚去过那里，当时工人们已经开始往卡车上装瓷砖、成箱的螺丝、金属线皮，以及承包商可以从这个突然停工的建设项目中收回的所有物料。
Built on a steep slope down to the sea, the concrete mansion occupies prized land in the middle of the supposedly protected forest. Accounts vary of how the land, previously a semiwilderness area popular with hikers, was turned into a display of ostentatious wealth. According to some locals, it used to be owned by a trolley-bus company that suddenly and mysteriously went bankrupt, with its assets somehow passing into the hands of a Crimean political crony of Yanukovych. But others say the territory belonged to a state-owned road construction company that was privatized while Yanukovych was prime minister in 2007 and ended up in his family's hands.
这座混凝土建筑建在临海的斜坡上，在本应受到保护的森林中间占据了一片宝贵土地。这片很受远足者欢迎、近乎蛮荒的土地怎么变成了浮夸炫富的场所呢？不同的人给出了不同的解释。一些本地人透露，这片土地本来由一家电动巴士公司拥有，该公司突然破产后，其资产以某种方式辗转到了亚努科维奇在克里米亚政坛的党羽手中。但也有人说，这块土地曾属于一家国有公路建设企业，2007年亚努科维奇担任总理时，那家公司被私有化，最终进入了其家人的手中。
An outfit called Ukrkievresurs, a subsidiary of the company that ended up owning the land, set up the companies that managed Yanukovych's residence outside Kiev, provided all of its furnishings and owned his helicopter and plane, according to corporate records uncovered by Ukrainian news media.
乌克兰新闻媒体取得的公司档案显示，一家名为Ukrkievresurs的公司为这栋豪宅提供了所有家具和装修，亚努科维奇的直升机和飞机也在这家公司名下。Ukrkievresurs是拥有这片土地的企业的子公司，管理亚努科维奇位于基辅郊外的那座豪宅的企业也是由这家公司建立的。
The first anyone noticed that anything unusual was afoot, beyond Ukraine's customary and highly opaque shell games with former state assets, was when workers started chopping down rare species of juniper and pine and erected a high fence around the previously open forest. Then came a new road, followed by a new electricity station to bring power to an area with little obvious need for large amounts of electricity.
乌克兰过去的国有资产常常经过了复杂的流转，其过程极不透明。工人们开始砍伐珍稀品种的刺柏和松树，并且在曾经开放的森林中竖起高高的围栏时，人们才发现事情可疑。之后，这里又通了一条新路，接着又建起了一座新的电站，但这个区域没有什么明显需要大量电力的设施。
A clear sign that this was no ordinary construction project was that, in violation of the law, the builders never posted a building permit, not even a doctored one.
这并非一个普通建设项目，一个清晰迹象是，建筑商从来没有依照法律要求取得建设批文，甚至连伪造的批文都没有。
Pilti, the shop owner, who used to hike in the area, said he quickly realized that the site involved more than just run-of-the-mill Ukrainian shenanigans, adding that he became “100 percent certain this was for Yanukovych, because only Yanukovych would dare build something like this.”
电器店主皮尔迪曾经在这个区域徒步旅行，他说自己很快就意识到那块工地不只是在乌克兰司空见惯的普通把戏，他还说自己“百分之百肯定这是为亚努科维奇建的，因为只有亚努科维奇才有胆量建这种东西。”
One of the contractors picking up his materials Tuesday, who gave his name only as Sergei, said he had not received any formal instructions to stop work, but “we watch television so can see we what is happening and that we are not going to get paid.”
周二，一名前来收拾物料的承包商说，他并没有收到停工的正式指示，但是“我们看了电视，知道发生了什么，也知道不会拿到工程款了。”这名承包商只透露自己名叫谢尔盖(Sergei)。
A laborer called Viktor said he began worrying the project might run into trouble more than a month ago, when protests in Kiev first flared into serious violence and his paychecks suddenly became erratic. But even after the mayhem last week in Kiev, he kept coming to work and laying concrete.
一名叫作维克多(Viktor)的工人说，他一个多月之前就开始担心项目会遇到麻烦，那时基辅的示威活动中首次发生了严重的暴力场面，工资的发放也突然变得很不规律。但即使上周基辅陷入了混乱，他也仍然会来工作，垒砌混凝土块。
He said he had finally decided to call it quits Tuesday, and now hoped to get work in Russia.
他说自己在周二终于决定要停工，现在希望能在俄罗斯找到工作。
Crimea, which Russia transferred to Ukraine in 1954, is still almost entirely Russian-speaking and home to the headquarters of Russia's Black Sea Fleet. It voted overwhelmingly for Yanukovych in 2010 — he received 84 percent of the vote against Yulia V. Tymoshenko, the former prime minister — embracing him as a strong and reliable leader who would hold the forces of Ukrainian nationalism at bay and strengthen ties with Moscow. Most residents cheered in November when Yanukovych rejected a trade deal with the European Union and turned to Moscow instead.
克里米亚是俄罗斯在1954年移交给乌克兰的，这里的居民直到现在也几乎全都讲俄语，俄罗斯黑海舰队的总部就位于这里。在2010年的大选中，绝大多数克里米亚民众投票支持了亚努科维奇，当年他在克里米亚以84%的得票率击败了前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)。克里米亚民众认为他是一个有力而可靠的领导人物，能够遏制乌克兰的民族主义情绪，增强与莫斯科的关系。亚努科维奇在去年11月回绝一项与欧盟的贸易协议，转而与莫斯科交好时，这里的多数居民都为此欢欣鼓舞。
Across Crimea, a favorite summer resort for the imperial and then Soviet elites, Yanukovych and his family, particularly his son, Oleksandr, a former dentist, commandeered choice plots of property to build luxury homes and establish businesses. These added to a substantial stock of state-owned property already available for the president's use, including the seaside dacha complex at Foros where Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader at the time, was briefly held captive during a putsch by communist hard-liners in August 1991.
沙皇时代和苏联时代的权贵们，很喜欢在夏天到克里米亚度假。亚努科维奇及其家人，尤其是曾经当过牙医的儿子奥列克桑德尔(Oleksandr)，在克里米亚各地征用了许多上佳的土地，用于建设豪宅和开设企业。除了这些土地之外，原本就有许多国有的物业供总统使用，包括福罗斯(Foros)的一所海滨别墅。1991年8月，当时的苏联领导人米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)曾因共产党强硬派发动政变而被短暂扣留在那里。
“Why does he need a palace every few kilometers? He thought he was a czar,” said Pilti, who was in Kiev on business during Saturday's takeover by protesters and was staggered to see the size of Yanukovych's captured spread outside the capital.
皮尔迪说，“他为什么需要隔几公里就有一座宫殿呢？他还以为自己是沙皇呢。”周六，示威者夺取亚努科维奇的府邸时，皮尔迪正在基辅出差，见到亚努科维奇在首都郊外聚敛了大量财富，他感到十分震惊。
Sergei, the contractor, said he did not like the new government in Kiev at all but was “still happy about what has happened — it had to happen sooner or later.” Ukraine, he added, desperately needs a more open system so the people can clearly know what is going on when a valued public forest suddenly gets fenced off and cut down to make way for a private mansion.
承包商谢尔盖表示，他一点都不喜欢基辅的新政府，但“对于发生的事情还是很高兴，它迟早都会发生。”他说，乌克兰迫切需要一个更公开的体制，这样公众所有的珍贵森林突然被圈起来，砍倒树木准备建设私人别墅时，民众才能清楚地知道到底在发生什么。
His chief quarrel with Yanukovych's opponents, he added, is not that they ousted a good leader, but that they, too, are deeply corrupt and will soon be building villas of their own if they manage to hang on to power.
他又说，他对亚努科维奇的反对者最大的不满，并不是他们推翻了一个好领袖，而是他们也十分腐败，如果手中握有权力，他们也会给自己建造别墅。
“Everyone knew what was happening here,” he said, gesturing at the concrete extravaganza he helped to build, “but they didn't say anything because they were doing the same thing, only smaller.”
“所有人都知道这里是怎么回事，”他指着自己帮助建造的奢华建筑说，“可是他们什么都没说，因为他们也在做同样的事，只是小一点。”