MOSCOW — In Russian, envy comes in two colors: black and white. The former is mean and resentful: “It should be me, not you.” The latter is aspirational: “I want to be you.” “Black envy” affirms a despondent world view; “white envy” affords a hopeful one.
莫斯科——在俄罗斯，嫉妒有两种色彩：黑和白。前者意味着刻薄、憎恨：“应该是我，不是你。”后者则意味着抱有希望：“我希望像你一样。”“黑色嫉妒”是一种消极的世界观，而“白色嫉妒”则是积极的。
For a week and a half, many Russians have had a clear case of white envy watching the protests in neighboring Ukraine. After President Viktor F. Yanukovich backed out of signing a political and trade agreement with the European Union, protests broke out in Kiev and other Ukrainian cities.
在过去一周半的时间里，看着邻国乌克兰爆发的抗议活动，很多俄罗斯人都明显具有白色嫉妒心理。在维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)总统违背诺言，拒绝与欧盟(European Union)签订政治贸易协议后，基辅及其他乌克兰城市爆发了抗议活动。
Many competing and contradictory political forces are involved, but the way it looks from Moscow the front line is drawn clearly: Ukraine has to choose between an increasingly reactionary Russia and Western Europe. Russia is using every kind of pressure — from threatening economic sanctions to declaring tens of thousands of Ukrainians persona non grata — all in order to drag Ukraine back into the Middle Ages with it. Western Europe, which has many demands of its own, promises a future of openness and progress.
很多相互竞争、对立的政治势力都加入其中，但在莫斯科看来，前线的界限非常明确：乌克兰需要在日益反动的俄罗斯与西欧之间做出选择。俄罗斯正通过施加各种压力——从威胁进行经济制裁到宣称不欢迎数以万计的乌克兰人——将乌克兰拽回中世纪，与俄罗斯作伴。西欧承诺带来一个开放、进步的未来，但它也有很多自己的要求。
Yanukovich, who has strong ties to the Kremlin, tried to have it both ways for a while, but he made his choice when it very nearly came time to sign the European treaty. Maybe he was afraid of ending up on Russia’s bad side, but maybe he was afraid of having to release his political rival Yulia V. Tymoshenko from jail in compliance with European demands. Whatever the motive, the decision sent Ukrainians into the streets, first by the thousands, then by the tens of thousands and later by the hundreds of thousands.
与克里姆林宫(Kremlin)关系紧密的亚努科维奇一度试图让双方都满意，但他在欧洲条约签署时间临近的时候，做出了选择。或许他是担心最终惹怒俄罗斯，又或许他是担心需要按照欧洲的要求，将政治对手尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V.Tymoshenko)释放出狱。无论动机是什么，这个决定促使乌克兰人走上街头，先是数千人，后来是上万人，再后来就达到几十万人的规模。
From Moscow, it was like watching that guy you’ve seen around the high-school cafeteria suddenly stand up to the bully you have so often wished you could confront. You cannot believe his courage at first. Then you fear for him because you think you know exactly how it’s going to end — badly. And then you are simply in awe, in white envy, and the world seems transformed.
从莫斯科这边看来，这就好像是看着在高中自助餐厅附近见过的那个学生突然站了起来，开始对抗校霸，而你曾常常幻想过自己这样做的场景。起初，你不相信他有这样的勇气。之后，你开始为他担心，因为你觉得你非常清楚最后的结局会有多糟糕。然后，你便处于敬畏与白色嫉妒之中，世界似乎出现转变。
The weary Russian intelligentsia watched the Ukrainian protests with cautious optimism at first. On Nov. 25 an opposition journalist wrote an open letter imploring his “Ukrainian brothers” not to let the protest movement go wrong in the ways the Russians had.
起初，倦怠的俄罗斯知识界对乌克兰的抗议活动持谨慎乐观的态度。11月25日，一名反对派记者写了一封公开信，恳求“乌克兰的兄弟们”不要像俄罗斯人那样，让抗议活动走向失败。
A few days later, the police moved in on the protesters: Following a series of clashes, most protesters were pushed off the streets, some were arrested and a few took cover near the protest sites. Similar events in Russia would have meant the protest was over.
几天之后，警方向抗议者逼近：在爆发了一系列冲突之后，大多数抗议者被迫离开街头，一些抗议者被逮捕，还有少数人占据了抗议现场附近的地方。在俄罗斯，类似的行动意味着抗议活动的结束。
Not in Ukraine. The following day, Sunday, the Kiev police chief resigned. Protesters poured back into the streets — more of them than in previous days. That afternoon more than 30 Russian writers posted an open letter online asking the Ukrainians, in essence, to avenge the failed Russian protest movement.
但在乌克兰，情况并非如此。第二天，也就是周日，基辅警察局长宣布辞职。抗议者纷纷回到街头，抗议人数比前几天还多。当天下午，30多名俄罗斯作家在网上发表公开信，其内容基本上就是请求乌克兰人为俄罗斯失败的抗议运动雪耻。
By Sunday night, not only were the streets of Kiev filled with demonstrators but, at least according to Russian-language news agencies, the Ukrainian foreign ministry announced it was going to resume negotiations with the European Union. One after another, Russian bloggers reposted the news item with the comment “They did it!”
至少根据俄语新闻机构的报道，截至周日晚间，不仅基辅街头被抗议者占据，乌克兰外交部也宣布他们将与欧盟恢复谈判。俄罗斯的博客作者相继转发这条新闻，并加上“他们做到了”这句话。
The success of any human endeavor depends at least in part on the ability to imagine an outcome. The Westernizers in Russia have had so few successes in the last decade — or the last century — that they have a hard time imagining anything but failure. But now the Ukrainians are showing the Russians that there might be another way. If they succeed, they may change the future of not one but two of the largest countries in Europe.
任何人类事业的成功至少部分取决于想象结局的能力。俄罗斯的亲西方派在过去十年或一个世纪中几乎没有获得什么成功，除了失败，他们很难想象其他结局。但现在，乌克兰人向俄罗斯人表明，或许还会出现另外一种情况。如果他们取得成功，他们可能会改变两个欧洲大国的未来，而不是一个。