KIEV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s acting interior minister said on Monday that authorities were in pursuit of the ousted president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, who was believed to be in Crimea in the south of the country, and that he would be arrested on charges of mass murder in the killings of dozens of antigovernment protesters last week.
乌克兰基辅——乌克兰代理内政部长周一称，政府正在追捕被赶下台的前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)，并会将其逮捕，他被指控在上周反政府抗议中犯有大规模屠杀罪。亚努科维奇据认可能躲在乌克兰南部的克里米亚。
The minister, Arsen Avakov, who was appointed by Parliament on Saturday, wrote on his Facebook page that he was personally involved in the manhunt and had traveled to the Crimean city of Sevastopol on Sunday night hoping to intercept Mr. Yanukovych at the airport there, but that the deposed president had not turned up as expected.
代理内政部长阿尔森·阿瓦科夫(Arsen Avakov)是议会在周六任命的，他在自己的Facebook上写道，他本人参与了这场追捕，他于周日夜间到达克里米亚城市塞瓦斯托波尔，希望能在那里的机场拦截亚努科维奇，但亚努科维奇并没有像预期的那样出现。
He said Mr. Yanukovych had then fled in an unknown direction, traveling by car, and with a diminished security detail.
他说，亚努科维奇那时已乘汽车逃走，去向未知，但随身的警卫已经不多。
The pursuit of Mr. Yanukovych, a man now widely despised even by many of his former supporters, gripped the nation on Monday, as the Parliament continued its efforts to rebuild the government, with hopes of appointing an acting prime minister and having the rest of a provisional government in place on Tuesday.
周一，追捕亚努科维奇的行动吸引着全国的关注力，就连许多原来支持他的人现在也普遍鄙视他。与此同时，议会在继续努力重建新政府，有望在周二任命一位代总理，以及任命临时政府的其他成员。
With former Prime Minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko, freed from prison on Saturday, saying she did not want to be considered for the post, speculation on the premiership focused on her ally, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, who has been a leader of the anti-Yanukovych street protests since they began in late November.
前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)周六被从监狱释放，她说自己不想考虑出任该职位，因此人们对代总理的猜测落在了她的盟友阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)身上，自去年11月反对亚努科维奇的街头抗议开始后，亚采纽克一直是活动的领导者之一。
Western officials on Monday continued to praise the developments in Ukraine, saying that Parliament had successfully filled a power vacuum, and that democratic institutions had functioned successfully. Russia, however, stepped up its criticism after recalling its ambassador from Kiev on Sunday.
西方官员在周一继续称赞乌克兰的局势发展，称议会成功地弥补了权力真空，民主机制也得以成功运行。而俄罗斯则于周日从基辅撤回了本国大使，并加大了批评力度。
“Today, I see no legitimate Ukrainian partners for dialogue,” the Russian prime minister, Dmitri A. Medvedev, said in Sochi, a day after the close of the Winter Olympics, according to the Interfax news service. “If people crossing Kiev in black masks with Kalashnikov rifles are considered a government, it will be difficult for us to work with such a government.”
“今天，我看不到乌克兰的合法对话伙伴，”俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)说，据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax news agency)消息，他是在索契冬季奥运会结束一天后讲的这番话，他说，“如果基辅那些蒙着黑面罩、拿着AK步枪的人被认为是一个政府的话，我们将很难与这样的政府合作。”
In fact, the security situation in the Ukrainian capital seemed to improve on Monday, with regular law enforcement bodies and some antigovernment fighters sharing responsibility for guarding government buildings and directing traffic. A sense of workaday calm seemed to return to the city, even as barricades still surrounded the main protest sites.
事实上，乌克兰首都的安全状况周一似乎有所改善，常规执法机构和一些反政府武装人员在共同承担守卫政府建筑和疏导交通的责任。一种日常的平静感似乎在这个城市开始恢复，虽然主要抗议地点周围的路障尚未拆除。
As Mr. Yanukovych’s public persona morphed from feared strongman to detested fugitive, any last vestiges of support for him seemed to vanish even in the pro-Russia eastern and southern parts of the country, which had historically provided his base of political support.
随着亚努科维奇的公共形象从一个令人畏惧的强人沦落为一个令人讨厌的逃犯，最后残存的一点对他的支持似乎也在消失，就连在那些亲俄罗斯的东部和南部地区也是如此，这些地区在历史上是给予他政治支持的大本营。
Mr. Yanukovych’s own Party of Regions, which had supported him until lawmakers began defecting over last week’s mass killings in Kiev, issued a statement on Sunday saying the country had been deceived, robbed and betrayed. “All responsibility for this lies with Yanukovych,” the party wrote. “We condemn the flight and cowardice of Yanukovych. We condemn the betrayal.”
在上周基辅大屠杀发生、议员们开始叛离其阵营前，亚努科维奇本人所在的地区党(Party of Regions)曾一直支持他，该党周日发表声明称，国家被欺骗、抢掠和背叛了。该党声明说，“一切责任都在亚努科维奇。我们谴责亚努科维奇的潜逃和懦弱。我们谴责他的背叛。”
Mr. Yanukovych and his family were known to have accumulated vast wealth during his time in office, and he was believed to have access to at least one yacht that might ferry him out of Ukraine.
人们已经知道，亚努科维奇及其家人在他执政期间敛聚了大量财富，据认他拥有至少一艘游艇，可能用之从海路离开了乌克兰。
On Facebook, Mr. Avako said that after abandoning his residence near the capital, Mr. Yanukovych had flown by helicopter to Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine, where he prepared a video statement on Saturday declaring that he remained president. Then he went to the airport in Donetsk, where he and several companions sought to flee the country on Falcon airplanes.
阿瓦科夫在Facebook上说，亚努科维奇在放弃了其位于首都附近的住所之后，乘直升飞机前往乌克兰东部的哈尔科夫，他周六在那里准备了一段视频声明，宣称自己仍是总统。之后，他去了顿涅茨克机场，和几名随行人员试图乘坐猎鹰公务机逃离乌克兰。
Border police at the airport prevented the planes from flying, Mr. Avakov said, and Mr. Yanukovych then departed in a motorcade for the south. After learning that Parliament had voted to strip him of power, Mr. Yanukovych began avoiding government residences, including a presidential country house in Crimea where he was expected to seek shelter.
阿瓦科夫说，该机场的边防警察阻止了飞机的起飞，亚努科维奇一行随后驾驶车队逃往南部。在得知议会已经投票剥夺了他权力之后，亚努科维奇开始避开政府官邸，包括一座位于克里米亚的总统别墅，人们曾预期他会到躲到那里去。
In addition to the murder charges, there have been calls for prosecution of Mr. Yanukovych on corruption charges after the discovery of astonishing trappings of wealth at his abandoned presidential residence in a national park outside of Kiev. Throughout the weekend, curious and angry members of the public streamed to the compound to gawk at the collections of expensive modern and antique cars, the private zoo and other gauche accouterments.
亚努科维奇除了面临屠杀指控外，人们还呼吁以腐败罪起诉他。在他逃离了位于基辅郊外一个国家公园里的总统府后，人们在其住所内发现了惊人的象征财产的东西。整个周末，好奇和愤怒的人们鱼贯进入这座府邸，目瞪口呆地观看他收藏的贵重现代和古董汽车、私人动物园，以及其他庸俗的值钱东西。
As journalists scoured the compound, sorting through a trove of documents that had been partly burned or dumped in a river, local news media began reporting allegations of embezzlement and corruption, and new details about Mr. Yanukovych’s personal life emerged.
随着记者们在这座府邸里翻找整理大批半被烧毁或仍到河里的文件，当地媒体已开始报道有关贪污腐败的指控，亚努科维奇私人生活的新细节也开始浮出水面。
The Kyiv Post, a newspaper here, said that it had found evidence that Mr. Yanukovych, 63, was living at the residence with a 39-year-old girlfriend and her 12-year-old daughter from a prior relationship. Mr. Yanukovych has been married for 42 years, but his wife, Lyudmila, has long lived in Donetsk and typically has not performed the duties of first lady.
当地的《基辅邮报》(Kyiv Post)称，已找到证据表明，现年63岁的亚努科维奇与一位39岁的女朋友住在这座官邸中，与他们同住的还有该女子与前夫所生的现年12岁的女儿。亚努科维奇与妻子柳德米拉(Lyudmila)已经结婚42年，但柳德米拉长期居住在顿涅茨克，基本上没有履行第一夫人的职责。
It was not clear whether the girlfriend, identified as Lyubov Plezhay, was traveling with Mr. Yanukovych. Mr. Avakov said that the ousted president was accompanied by Andriy Klyuyev, a close political ally whom he had recently named as chief of the presidential administration.
尚不清楚亚努科维奇的女友柳博芙·普勒扎(Lyubov Plezhay)是否跟随亚努科维奇一起出逃。阿瓦科夫说，与亚努科维奇一起的有他的亲密政治盟友安德里·克柳耶夫(Andriy Klyuyev)，亚努科维奇最近任命克柳耶夫为总统办公厅主任。