DONETSK, Ukraine — Around the south and east of Ukraine, in vital cities in the country’s industrial heartland, ethnic Russians have staged demonstrations and stormed buildings demanding a wider invasion of their country by Moscow.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——在乌克兰南部和东部，在这个国家工业腹地的重要城市里，俄罗斯族民众已发起示威活动并冲击建筑物，要求莫斯科更大范围出兵乌克兰。
But some of the people here calling for Russian intervention are themselves Russian — “protest tourists” from across the border.
但是此地一些要求俄罗斯干预的人本身就是俄罗斯人，他们是穿越国境线前来的“示威游客”。
They have included passport-carrying Russians, like Aleksey Khudyakov, a pro-Kremlin Muscovite who said he traveled here “to watch and maybe to give some advice.” In Kharkiv, another Russian scaled a government building to dramatically plant his country’s flag — offering at least the image that President Vladimir V. Putin’s forces were being invited in.
他们中包括了像阿列克谢·胡佳科夫(Aleksey Khudyakov)这样持护照的俄罗斯人。他来自莫斯科，支持克里姆林宫，他说他特地来这儿“关注此事，或许还会提一些建议”。在哈尔科夫，一名俄罗斯人爬上一座政府大楼，以夸张的姿态插下了俄罗斯国旗——至少营造出了这样一种表象：俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的部队是受邀进入乌克兰的。
It is clear that in this part of Ukraine, many ethnic Russians distrust the fledgling government and some would indeed welcome Russian troops. But the events unfolding in major Ukrainian cities in recent days appear to match a pattern played by the Kremlin in Crimea, where pro-Moscow forces paving the way for Russia to seize control were neither altogether spontaneous, nor entirely local.
毫无疑问的是，在乌克兰的这些地区，许许多多的俄罗斯族人对羽翼未丰的政府不信任，其中一些的确会欢迎俄罗斯军队前来。但近来在乌克兰大城市发生的种种事件，看来是延续了克里姆林宫在克里米亚的行动模式。在那里，为俄罗斯铺平道路、帮助他们最后夺取控制权的亲莫斯科武装力量，既非完全自发，也不全是当地人所为。
As a wave of pro-Russia demonstrations in 11 cities has suddenly erupted where significant populations of ethnic Russians live, the apparent organization of the demonstrators, appearances of Russian citizens and reports of busloads of activists arriving from Russia itself suggest a high degree of coordination with Moscow. At a minimum, Russians are instigating protests by Ukrainians sympathetic to Moscow, helping to create a pretext for a broader intervention if Mr. Putin decides to push things that far.
有大量俄罗斯族人生活的11个城市突然爆发了大规模的亲俄罗斯示威活动。活动的组织看来井然有序，其中也有俄罗斯公民的身影，更有报道称有大量俄罗斯活动人士乘坐巴士前来，其本身就显示了某种与莫斯科的高度配合。至少，俄罗斯人是在煽动对莫斯科有好感的乌克兰人发起抗议活动，为更大范围的出兵做下铺垫，如果普京最终决定要走到这一步的话。
In Donetsk, when the crowd took control of the Parliament building on Monday, the Soviet-era ballad “Russians Don’t Surrender” blasted from loudspeakers and Mr. Khudyakov huddled in conversation with the leader of Donetsk Republic, a local organization demanding greater autonomy from Kiev. Back home, Mr. Khudyakov is better known for having founded several nationalist vigilante groups with the tacit blessing of the Russian government.
在顿涅茨克，当抗议的人群周一控制了议会大楼时，高音喇叭里放着苏联时期的民歌《俄罗斯人不会屈服》(Russians Don’t Surrender)，胡佳科夫与顿涅茨克共和国(Donetsk Republic)的领导人凑在一起交头接耳，后者是当地一个要求基辅给予顿涅茨克更大程度自治的组织。在他的家乡莫斯科，胡佳科夫更为人知的是在俄罗斯政府的默许之下，创立了数个民族主义治安组织。
The most dramatic expressions of the new pro-Russian fervor have taken place here, the former political base of Viktor F. Yanukovych, the country’s deposed president, and in Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second most populous city, just 20 miles from the Russian border.
正是在顿涅茨克——乌克兰被罢黜总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)曾经的政治大本营——以及距离俄罗斯边境仅20英里（约合32公里）的乌克兰人口第二大城市哈尔科夫，这种亲俄新热潮表现的最为强烈。
Amid the rumors and rising anxiety, self-declared municipal self-defense groups have emerged, saying they are ready to fight the spread of fascism — Mr. Putin’s description of the new leadership and its supporters — from the country’s west with Russia’s help.
在谣言纷飞、担忧情绪日盛的形势下，出现了一些自封的市政自卫组织，宣称他们将在俄罗斯的帮助下，抗击从乌克兰西部蔓延过来的法西斯主义。普京将新领导人和他们的支持者称为法西斯主义者。
Monday’s seizure of the Parliament building here was led by Pavel Gubarev, the founder of the People’s Militia of Donbass, the coal-mining region where Donetsk is. In a speech from the dais of the captured Parliament chamber, he rejected Kiev’s authority and called on Mr. Putin to bring troops to the city.
周一占领议会大楼的行动是由顿巴斯民兵(People’s Militia of Donbass)的创立人帕维尔·古巴廖夫(Pavel Gubarev)领导的。顿巴斯是一个产煤区，顿涅茨克也包含在其中。在被占领的议会大厅的讲台上，古巴廖夫发表了一席讲话，他拒绝基辅政权，并呼吁普京向顿涅茨克出兵。
The sudden uprisings have shocked many in the region, where there was strong sentiment against the pro-West demonstrators in Kiev, but few calls to draw closer to Russia until very recently.
突然出现的暴动震惊了这一地区的许多人。在此地，不少人对于发生在基辅的亲西方示威活动抱有强烈的反感，但直到最近才有更多人提出要与俄罗斯发展更紧密关系。
“I am sure that they are paid,” said Valentina Azarova, 55, a former seamstress, pointing at a dozen young men spitting sunflower seed shells in a pro-Russia protest camp in central Kharkiv on Sunday.
“我敢肯定是有人付钱给他们的，”55岁、做过裁缝的瓦莲京娜·阿扎罗娃(Valentina Azarova)周日说道，她指的是远处的十几名年轻男子，他们在哈尔科夫市中心的亲俄抗议营地上正嗑着瓜子。
“I am Russian, and I am embarrassed for my country,” she said, discussing the possibility that Russian troops could come to the city. “Russia is here just as much as Russia is in the Crimea.”
“我是俄罗斯人，我为我的国家感到羞耻，”她说。阿扎罗娃认为俄罗斯军队有可能会进入这座城市。“俄罗斯在这里的影响和在克里米亚是一样的。”
In Donetsk, the movement for greater ties with Moscow seems to have gained a foothold. The City Council on Saturday called for a referendum on greater autonomy for the region, which Kiev has called illegal. At the Parliament building, Roman Romanov, the head of the police for the Donetsk region, told protesters that he “obeys the people,” but urged restraint from them, saying the “police are here to help you.”
在顿涅茨克，要求与俄罗斯建立更大程度联系的行动似乎已扎了根。周六，市议会呼吁举行全民公决，为该地区更大程度的自治进行投票，但基辅称这不合法。在议会大楼，顿涅茨克地区警察局长罗曼·罗曼诺夫(Roman Romanov)告诉示威人群，他“服从于人民”，但是呼吁他们要克制，说“警察在这儿是来帮助你们的”。
Mr. Gubarev, the militia leader, has demanded that he be made the head of Donetsk’s regional government. When his supporters took the Parliament building, he collected identification cards to identify members barricaded on the upper floors of the building in case they tried to leave.
民兵组织领导人古巴廖夫已提出，由他来担任顿涅茨克地方政府的领导人。当他的支持者占领了议会大楼之后，他把议员们都关在了大楼的最高几层，并把他们的身份证收起来一一确定身份，以防他们逃跑。
Many of the Parliament members had scratched their faces off the cards with pens in an apparent attempt to avoid identification.
许多议员显然是为了避免被认出，用笔在证件上涂花了自己的脸。
Pro-Russia protesters caught one man who dashed out of the building before it was seized, beat him on a busy downtown street, and covered his face with a green liquid.
就在议会大楼被占领之前，一名男子冲了出来，但亲俄的示威者抓住了他，在一条繁忙的市中心马路上对他进行殴打，还在他的脸上浇上绿色的液体。
In general, however, protest leaders tried to prevent outright violence.
但总体来说，示威活动的领导人们还是在尽力避免出现暴力失控的局面。