KIEV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian government said on Saturday that it had proof that Russia had provided the surface-to-air missile system that shot down a Malaysia Airlines passenger jet over eastern Ukraine on Thursday, killing all 298 people aboard.
乌克兰基辅——周六，乌克兰政府表示，他们有证据表明，马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的客机是由俄罗斯提供的地对空导弹系统在周四击落的。该客机在乌克兰东部上空失事，机上298人全部遇难。
That claim came as officials from Malaysia and the Netherlands pleaded for politics to be put aside so they could recover their dead, still lying in a field in a war zone.
乌克兰作出上述声明时，马来西亚及荷兰的官员恳求抛开政治分歧，好让他们找回遇难者的遗体，他们现在还躺在交战区域里的一块田野里。
Ukraine also accused Russia and separatist rebels in the east of trying to cover up their role by blocking recovery workers from the crash site, removing evidence and driving three missile launchers back to Russia just hours after the crash.
乌克兰还指责，俄罗斯及乌克兰东部的分裂分子阻止营救人员进入失事现场，销毁证据，并在坠机发生几个小时后，将三个导弹发射器运回俄罗斯，以此掩盖他们扮演的角色。
At a news conference in Kiev, Vitaly Nayda, the head of counterintelligence for the Ukrainian State Security Service, displayed photographs that he said showed the three Buk-M1 missile systems on the road to the Russian border. Two of the devices, missile launchers mounted on armored vehicles, crossed the border into Russia about 2 a.m. Friday, or less than 10 hours after the jet, Flight 17, was blown apart in midair, he said. The third weapon crossed about 4 a.m.
在基辅举行的新闻发布会上，乌克兰国家安全局(State Security Service)反情报部门负责人维塔利·内达(Vitaly Nayda)展示了一些照片，他称这些照片显示了三个正被运回俄罗斯边境的“山毛榉”Buk-M1导弹系统。他表示，周五凌晨2点左右，也就是MH17航班在空中爆炸后不到10个小时的时间里，装甲车载着其中两个装置——导弹发射器跨越边境进入俄罗斯。第三个武器在清晨4点左右被运入俄罗斯。
Mr. Nayda said that the missile had been fired from the town of Snizhne, in rebel-controlled territory, echoing American intelligence showing the missile coming from eastern Ukraine. Both the Ukrainians and the Americans said they believed that the separatist rebels would have needed help from Russia in order to fire such a weapon.
内达表示，导弹的发射地点位于叛乱分子控制的斯尼日内，这与美国的情报一致。美国情报显示，导弹是从乌克兰东部发出的。乌克兰和美国都表示，他们认为分裂分子需要在俄罗斯的帮助下，才能够发射此类导弹。
Tensions flared on several fronts on Saturday with reports of heavy fighting between rebels and government forces in the eastern city of Luhansk, a reminder that the crash site is in an active combat zone. Meanwhile, the Kremlin announced that it was imposing economic sanctions on 12 Americans in retaliation for a new round of economic sanctions announced last week against Russian companies.
周六，有报道称，叛乱分子与政府军在东部城市卢甘斯克展开激战，几处战线都出现紧张局势，这表明空难现场所在的区域仍战事频繁。与此同时，克里姆林宫(Kremlin)宣称，俄罗斯将对12名美国人实施经济制裁，以报复美国上周决定对俄罗斯企业采取新一轮经济制裁的举动。
The allegations of a cover-up, both to hide the weapons in the hours immediately after the missile strike and to stop investigators from collecting evidence, threatened to inflame an already highly charged event. Officials from Malaysia and the Netherlands, which had the most citizens aboard the plane, urged that the crash site be secured and that recovery operations be allowed to proceed.
掩盖真相的指控——导弹攻击事件后立即隐藏武器、阻止调查人员收集证据——可能会使这场高度紧张的事件进一步恶化。马来西亚及荷兰的官员敦促相关方面保护失事现场，允许开展搜救工作。失事飞机上的乘客大多是荷兰公民。
Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands said at a news conference that he asked President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to persuade the rebels to release the bodies and stop “messing around” with the crash site before European forensic inspectors could examine it.
荷兰首相马克·吕特(Mark Rutte)在新闻发布会上表示，他请求俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)说服叛乱分子交出遗体，在欧洲法医进行检查之前，不要在失事现场“捣乱”。
“I told him that the entire country is desperate,” Mr. Rutte said. “These bodies must come home.”
“我对普京说，整个国家都陷入绝望，”吕特说。“我们必须将遗体运送回国。”
Liow Tiong Lai, the Malaysian transportation minister, said that the crash had become “a geopolitical issue, but we must not forget that it is a human tragedy.”
马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)表示，坠机事件已经成为“地缘政治问题，但我们一定不能忘记，这是一场人间悲剧”。
“Days after the plane went down, the remains of 298 people lie uncovered,” he said. “Citizens of 11 nations, none of whom are involved in the conflict in eastern Ukraine, cannot be laid to rest.”
“飞机坠毁数日后，298人仍尸陈荒野，”他说。“11个国家的公民无法得到安息，他们与乌克兰东部的冲突没有关系。”
In Kiev, officials said there was still no clear information about the location of the flight data recorders. They were said to have been recovered at the scene but then taken by rebels.
在基辅，官员们表示，没有黑匣子所在位置的明确信息。据称，有人在现场发现了黑匣子，但被叛乱分子带走了。
On Friday, rebels said they had the recorders and would turn them over to international investigators. On Saturday, however, a rebel leader, Alexander Borodai, said that the devices had not yet been found, local news services reported.
周五，叛乱分子表示，他们拿到了黑匣子，并会将它们交给国际调查人员。但当地新闻机构报道，叛乱分子领袖亚历山大·博罗代(Alexander Borodai)周六表示，还没找到黑匣子。
The Kremlin has forcefully denied any role in the downing of the plane and has gone on the offensive, saying that the Ukrainian military’s antiaircraft weapons may have been responsible.
克里姆林宫极力否认俄罗斯参与了击落飞机的行动，并且还提出了指责，称飞机可能是由乌克兰军队的防空武器击落的。
Ukrainian officials called for an international investigation.
乌克兰官员呼吁展开国际调查。
“We have proof that the terrorist attack was planned and carried out with the involvement of representatives of the Russian Federation,” Mr. Nayda, the intelligence official, said. “We know that Russia is trying to hide its terrorist activity and their direct involvement.”
“我们有证据表明此次恐怖袭击是有预谋的，俄罗斯联邦的代理人参与了此次袭击，”情报官员内达说。“我们知道，俄罗斯正在设法掩盖它的恐怖活动，掩盖其直接的证据。”
Russian officials have stopped short of directly pointing a finger at Kiev, but they have issued their own calls for a thorough international inquiry. In a statement on Saturday, the Russian Foreign Ministry said it “appeals to both sides of the Ukrainian conflict, urging them to do everything possible to enable access for international experts to the airplane crash area in order to take action necessary for the investigation.”
俄罗斯官员差一点就要直接指责是乌克兰政府打下了飞机，不过俄方也发出了呼吁，要求展开彻底的国际调查。在周六发出的一则声明中，俄罗斯外交部表示，俄方“已向乌克兰冲突双方提出呼吁，敦促双方采取所有可能的措施，为国际专家提供进入坠机区域的通道，从而开展必要的调查”。
In Malaysia, where officials are grappling with the tragedy of losing a second major jetliner this year, the government has joined the call for an investigation but is reluctant to assign blame for the crash. Experts and officials said two concerns shaped the Malaysian government’s wariness: its bruising experience with confusion after the loss of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 more than four months ago, and a desire not to alienate Russia and China, its main partner in East Asia.
在马来西亚，官员们正在艰难地应对今年内失去第二架大型客机的悲剧。马来西亚政府也呼吁展开调查，不过他们不太愿意指出，导致坠机的罪魁祸首是谁。一些专家和官员表示，马来西亚政府的谨慎态度源于两种因素，一是四个多月前，MH370航班失踪的混乱而沉痛的经历，二是他们不愿意因此疏远俄罗斯，以及该国在东亚地区的主要伙伴国中国。
The Ukrainian government charged that rebels had moved at least 38 bodies of victims to a morgue in Donetsk, a regional capital and rebel stronghold. Officials had planned to take victims to Kharkiv, a city in the east outside rebel control, and where they said a special lab would help identify remains.
乌克兰政府称，叛军已将至少38具遗体转移到了顿涅茨克的一所太平间。顿涅茨克是该地区的首府，也是分裂分子的据点。官员们曾计划将遇难者的遗体运到哈尔科夫，这座城市位于乌克兰东部，在叛军控制的地盘以外，他们表示，那里有一座专门的实验室，能帮助辨认遗体的身份。
On Saturday afternoon, it was not clear who was in charge at the crash site. Journalists were restricted from entering certain areas, at times by a man in fatigues who occasionally made his point by firing a gun into the air. He wore a badge from the general prosecutor’s office. Tents had been set up as a headquarters, but emergency workers said they did not know who was in charge of plane parts.
到周六下午，尚不清楚控制坠机现场的人员是谁。控制现场的人员不允许记者进入某些区域，一名身着军服的男子偶尔会朝天鸣枪，以此表明他的意图。他戴着总检察院的徽章。现场已经搭起了帐篷充当指挥部，不过急救队员表示，他们不知道是谁负责处理飞机残骸。
In Kiev, Andriy Lysenko, a spokesman for Ukraine’s National Defense and Security Council, said that officials believed rebels were blocking access in order to remove missile fragments that would help prove that a Russian missile destroyed the plane. He said officials from the state Emergency Services Ministry, the Interior Ministry and the general prosecutor’s office had been denied access.
在基辅，乌克兰国防和安全委员会(National Defense and Security Council)发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)表示，乌克兰官员确信，叛军封锁了道路，目的是清除导弹碎片，那些碎片将有助于证明是俄罗斯的导弹摧毁了飞机。他说，来自国家紧急服务部(Emergency Services Ministry)、内政部(Interior Ministry)和总检察院的官员已被拒绝进入坠机地点。
Senior Pentagon officials also expressed concerns about any loss of potential evidence, but voiced confidence that analysts would be able to work around that.
五角大楼高级官员也对丢失任何证据的可能性表达了关切，不过他们表示，相信分析人员能想方设法应对。
Mr. Borodai, a Russian citizen who is a leader of the separatist movement, has denied that rebels were interfering with the recovery operation. On Saturday afternoon, rescue workers in blue uniforms directed the collection of bodies from the fields where they fell, placing them on stretchers and into black body bags. A cluster of about 10 of them lay by the road, as men in pairs made their way through the grass, retrieving them.
身为俄罗斯公民的分裂组织领导人博罗代，否认了叛军干预现场搜寻行动的说法。周六下午，身着蓝色制服的搜救人员，指挥下属从遇难者坠落的田野里收集遗体，并把他们放在担架上，再装进黑色的尸袋里。工作人员二个一组地穿过草地，抬回尸首，当时有大约10具遗体堆放在路边。