KIEV, Ukraine — Mykola Azarov, the prime minister of Ukraine, resigned on Tuesday, hours before a planned vote of no confidence by Parliament that could have stripped him of his powers.
乌克兰基辅——周二，在议会进行不信任投票决定是否剥夺乌克兰总理米克拉·阿扎罗夫(Mykola Azarov)权力前的几个小时，阿扎罗夫宣布辞职。
The pro-government Party of Regions also joined with opposition lawmakers on Tuesday to repeal most of the laws in a package of legislation restricting freedom of speech and assembly that had been enacted recently.
支持政府的地区党(Party of Regions)在周二也和反对派议员站在了一起，废除了最近颁布的一系列限制言论自由和集会的法律中的大部分。
Together, the resignation and repeals were significant concessions by Ukraine’s embattled president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, as well as clear signs of the building momentum of opposition to his rule.
阿扎罗夫的辞职和法律的废除是陷入困境的乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)做出的重大让步，同时也明显表明反对亚努科维奇的力量在积聚。
In a statement, Mr. Yanukovych said he had accepted Mr. Azarov’s resignation and signed a decree dismissing the rest of the cabinet as well. But he said Mr. Azarov and the ministers would stay on until Parliament approved a new cabinet.
亚努科维奇在一份声明中表示，他已经接受阿扎罗夫的辞职申请，并签署政令，解雇内阁的其他人员。但他表示，阿扎罗夫和各个部长将继续留任，直到议会通过一个新的内阁。
Mr. Yanukovych has promised other concessions as well, including amnesty for arrested protesters and the formation of a committee to propose revisions of the Constitution to weaken presidential powers. Lawmakers were expected to take up those matters on Wednesday.
亚努科维奇还承诺作出其他让步，包括赦免被逮捕的抗议者，成立委员会，修改宪法，削弱总统权力。议员们将于周三开始处理这些事务。
Mr. Azarov has been a staunch ally of Mr. Yanukovych throughout the two months of protests roiling Ukraine. But neither his resignation nor the repeal of the restrictive legislation, which the opposition calls the “dictatorship laws,” was seen as likely to appease the protesters.
在抗议活动席卷乌克兰的两个月期间，阿扎罗夫一直是亚努科维奇的坚定盟友。但无论是他的辞职还是限制性法律——反对派称之为“独裁法律”——的废除都被视作旨在安抚抗议者的举措。
The concessions would, though, pressure the parliamentary opposition leaders associated with the protest to answer with a de-escalation of their own, and potentially highlight their growing irrelevance if they are unable to deliver.
但这些让步会迫使和抗议活动有关联的议会反对派领导人采取行动缓和局势，如果他们做不到，则可能会凸显他们对抗议活动的控制力越来越微弱。
Multiple right-wing factions, splinter groups and newly formed associations are now active on the street without organized leadership and are not answering to the political parties.
多个右翼派系、分裂出的小派别，以及新成立的联盟目前都活跃在街头，他们没有组织领导层，不对政党负责。
In Independence Square, the central plaza that has been occupied since November by demonstrators, their tents, field kitchens and a stage, reactions to Tuesday’s developments were mixed.
在独立广场(Independence Square)上，也就是自11月以来被示威者及其帐篷、野外炉灶和一个舞台占据的中央广场，人们对周二的进展反应不一。
One older woman in a kerchief giddily told the Ukrainian Channel 5 television network after Mr. Azarov’s resignation, “Thank God you heard us!”
阿扎罗夫辞职之后，一名戴着头巾的年长女性告诉乌克兰第五频道(Ukrainian Channel 5)，“感谢上帝听到了我们的呼声。”
But a young man wearing a metal helmet told the television station, “It’s not a victory yet.”
但一名戴着金属头盔的年轻男性告诉该电视台，“这还不算胜利。”
In a statement, Mr. Azarov wrote that he was resigning “for the sake of a peaceful resolution” to the civil unrest, which escalated sharply last week with the deaths of five protesters. Demonstrators occupied provincial administration buildings in at least 10 regions, sending the police fleeing through rear exits in some instances. One policeman was shot to death on a street in Kiev far from the protest site; a nationalist group calling itself the Ukrainian Partisan Army claimed responsibility in a Facebook post.
阿扎罗夫在一份声明中表示，“为了和平解决”国内动乱，他选择辞职。上周，五名抗议者死亡后，动乱急剧升级。集会者在至少十个地区占领了省办公大楼，其中好几次警察被迫从大楼后面的出口逃跑。一名在警察在基辅一条远离抗议点的街上被枪杀；在一个Facebook帖子中，一个自称为乌克兰游击军(Ukrainian Partisan Army)的民族主义组织声称对此负责。
The relentless pressure on the riot police eased Tuesday in Kiev, the national capital, and provincial capitals. No new buildings were stormed, and a weeklong confrontation on a street in Kiev that is a few hundred yards from the Parliament building was mostly quiet.
周二，在乌克兰首都基辅和一些省会城市，防暴警察承受的持续压力得以缓解。没有新的大楼遭到攻击，在基辅街头距议会大楼几百米的地方已经持续了一周的对抗也基本平息。
In Odessa, the authorities used a crane to lower concrete blocks onto a wall in front of the regional administration building, to prevent its storming. A similar wall of rough-hewed concrete blocks went up on a street in the government district in Kiev, a new tactic by the riot police.
在敖德萨，当地政府用一架起重机在地区行政大楼围墙前垒起混凝土块，保护大楼不受抗议者冲击。基辅政府机关所在区的一条街上，也垒起了这种仓促而就的混凝土砖墙，这是防暴警察的一种新手段。
Columns of buses escorted by police cars and special trains traveling on schedules not advertised in advance arrived in Kiev on Tuesday carrying government supporters from eastern and southern regions of Ukraine for a large pro-government rally.
周二，由警察护送的成队大巴，以及运行时间未通告火车专列到达基辅，车上载着来自乌克兰东部和南部地区的亲政府人士，他们来参加一场支持政府的大型集会。
In the ranks of the radical opposition, empowered now by its survival through a week of fierce street fighting with the police and security services in which scores of people were wounded and arrested, few believed that Mr. Azarov’s resignation was voluntary.
在激进的反对派组织内，几乎没人相信阿扎罗夫的辞职是自愿的。反对派在与警察以及安全部队长达一周的激烈冲突中坚持了下来，这让他们气势大增。冲突已经导致数十人受伤、被捕。
Oleg Tyagnibok, the leader of the nationalist Svoboda party, said Mr. Azarov had been forced out to avoid the no-confidence vote in Parliament. “It’s clear they are looking for ways to avoid responsibility,” he said.
民族主义党派全乌克兰自由联盟(Svoboda Party)的领导人奥列格·塔亚格尼布克(Oleg Tyagnibok)说，阿扎罗夫是被迫辞职的，以避免议会举行不信任投票。“很明显，他们在想方设法逃避责任，”塔亚格尼布克说。
Mr. Yanukovych had previously signaled that he would be willing to dismiss Mr. Azarov, and over the weekend he offered the prime ministership to the parliamentary leader of the opposition Fatherland party, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, who declined the offer.
亚努科维奇曾表示，他愿意让阿扎罗夫离职，周末他提出让反对党全乌克兰祖国联盟(Fatherland)的议会领导人阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)出任总理，但后者拒绝了这一邀请。
In the morning session of Parliament, lawmakers on Tuesday repealed nine of the 12 restrictive laws that had been passed on Jan. 16 by a show of hands, without debate. Outrage at the limits the laws imposed on free speech and assembly in the country set off the violence on Jan. 19. The repeal vote on Tuesday was conducted more formally, with 361 votes recorded in favor of repeal in the 450-seat chamber.
周二，议会在上午的会议中废除了12条限制性法律，这些法律于1月16日在未经过辩论的情况下举手表决通过。1月19日，这些大幅度限制言论和集会自由的法律激起愤怒，引发暴力冲突。周二废除相关法律的投票要更正式一些，在有450个席位的议会中，共361人投票支持废除法律。