KIEV, Ukraine — Pro-Western parties won an overwhelming majority in Ukraine’s Parliament, President Petro O. Poroshenko declared on Sunday, citing exit polls.
乌克兰基辅——周日，乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)援引出口民调的数据宣布，亲西方的政党在乌克兰议会赢得了压倒性的多数席位。
With the country still on a war-footing with Russian separatists in the east, Mr. Poroshenko hailed Sunday’s vote as a resounding endorsement of his government’s efforts to break free of Kremlin influence and shift hard toward Europe.
在乌克兰东部，政府与俄罗斯分裂分子仍处于战争状态。波罗申科对周日的投票结果表示欢迎，他声称，这显示出民众对政府摆脱俄罗斯影响，向西方靠拢的行动给予了有力的支持。
“I asked you to vote for a democratic, reformist, pro-Ukrainian and pro-European majority,” he said in a statement posted on his website after polls closed. “Thank you for having heard and supported this appeal.”
“我曾请求你们通过投票，让代表民主、推行改革、支持乌克兰和支持欧洲的政党赢得多数，”投票结束后，他在网站上发表的一份声明中说。“谢谢你们倾听并响应了这个呼吁。”
Mr. Poroshenko said more than three-quarters of those who voted “powerfully and permanently supported Ukraine’s course toward Europe.” He called the result “a landslide vote of confidence from the people.”
波罗申科说，超过四分之三的投票者“为乌克兰走向欧洲的道路，给予了有力而永久的支持。”他称这一结果是“一次压倒性的胜利，代表了人民对政府的信心。”
The results, if confirmed by official tallies expected on Monday, would complete a transformation of the government that began in February when President Viktor F. Yanukovych fled after sustained, bloody street protests over his decision to align more closely with Russia.
预计周一将统计出正式的投票结果。如果上述结果得到正式结果的印证，将标志着政府一次转型的完成。这次转型是从今年2月维克托·F·亚努科维奇总统(Viktor F. Yanukovych)出逃开始的。在那之前，亚努科维奇决定与俄罗斯进一步结盟，引发了持续而血腥的街头抗议活动。
Expanded power for pro-Western parties is certain to be cheered by the United States and its European allies, which have staked a huge political and financial bet on Ukraine’s ability to emerge from its current crisis as a stable state, and especially to be able to repay its debts.
亲西方政党势力的扩大，毫无疑问会受到美国及其欧洲盟友的欢迎，后者在政治和财政上都押下很大赌注，希望乌克兰能够作为一个稳定的国家走出当前危机，尤其是能够偿还其债务。
The United States and European nations are also eager to end the worst violence on the Continent since the conflicts in the Balkans in the 1990s, and to resolve the most dangerous dispute between the West and Russia since the Cold War. That, however, is likely to hinge as much on President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia as on Mr. Poroshenko.
美国和欧洲还迫切希望结束当前的暴力冲突，以及西方和俄罗斯之间的矛盾。当前的冲突是上世纪90年代巴尔干半岛的战争以来，欧洲大陆上最严重的一次。而当前的矛盾，也是冷战以来西方和俄罗斯之间最危险的争端。不过，这不光与波罗申科有关，还同样取决于俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)。
An overwhelming pro-Western majority might also pose a challenge for Mr. Poroshenko as he tries to convince residents of the embattled east that their interests are also a priority in Kiev. Such skepticism is likely to be heightened because of the inability of so many residents of eastern Ukraine to participate in Sunday’s election.
亲西方政党获得绝对多数席位，也可能会为波罗申科带来挑战，因为他目前正设法让陷入战争的东部民众相信，他们的利益也是基辅的重要目标。因为乌克兰东部大量居民无法参加周日的选举，这种怀疑可能会加剧。
Between the war zone and Crimea, which was annexed by Russia in March, as many as 10 percent of voters might have been prevented from casting ballots, international election observers said. Rebel leaders had recently boasted that they controlled many polling stations in the east, and intended to block the vote.
国际选举观察人士称，在交战地带和3月被俄罗斯吞并的克里米亚之间，多达10%的选民投票可能受阻。前不久，反政府武装领导人夸口称，他们控制了东部的许多投票站，并且打算阻挠这场选举。
The exit polls showed Mr. Poroshenko’s own coalition party running first in the polls but falling far short of winning a controlling majority on its own. That means he would be forced to form a coalition, most likely in partnership with People’s Front, the party led by Prime Minister Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk.
出口民调显示，波罗申科自己领导的联合政党在投票中处于领先地位，但尚未赢得可以独自执政的多数选票。这意味着，他可能将被迫组建联合政府，极有可能是与总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)领导的政党人民阵线(People’s Front)合作。