DONETSK, Ukraine — Determined to preserve the pro-Russian revolt in eastern Ukraine, Russia reinforced what Western and Ukrainian officials described as a stealth invasion on Wednesday, sending armored troops across the border as it expanded the conflict to a new section of Ukrainian territory.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——周三，决意维护乌克兰东部亲俄罗斯叛乱的俄罗斯，派装甲部队越过边界，将冲突扩大到乌克兰境内另一地区，进一步增强了被西方和乌克兰官员称为秘密入侵的行动。
The latest incursion, which Ukraine’s military said included five armored personnel carriers, was at least the third movement of troops and weapons from Russia across the southeast part of the border this week, further blunting the momentum Ukrainian forces have made in weakening the insurgents in their redoubts of Donetsk and Luhansk farther north. Evidence of a possible turn was seen in the panicky retreat of Ukrainian soldiers on Tuesday from a force they said had come over the Russian border.
乌克兰军方称，最近这一次入侵包括五辆装甲运兵车。这至少是本周内俄罗斯第三次调遣兵力和武器越过东南部的边境，进一步削弱了乌克兰军队在叛乱分子的堡垒顿涅茨克及更北边的卢甘斯克挫败他们的势头。乌克兰士兵在周二惊慌失措地撤退，表明情况可能发生变化。他们称遇到了一支越过俄罗斯边境的力量。
Russia, which has denied it is helping the insurgents, did not acknowledge the military movements. But the Russians have signaled that they would not countenance a defeat of an insurgency in the heavily Russian eastern part of Ukraine, which would amount to a significant domestic political setback for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in his increasingly fractious relationship with the United States and its European allies.
否认帮助叛乱分子的俄罗斯不承认进行了相关军事调遣。但俄罗斯已经暗示，不会坐视生活着大量俄罗斯人的乌克兰东部的暴乱失败，因为在与美国及其欧洲盟友关系日益紧张之际，那相当于俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在国内遭遇重大政治挫折。
“Russia is clearly trying to put its finger on the scale to tip things back in favor of its proxies,” a senior American official said. “Artillery barrages and other Russian military actions have taken their toll on the Ukrainian military.”
“俄罗斯显然正在尝试在规模上做文章，以让局势回到有利于其代理人的状态，”一名美国高官说。“连续炮击，以及俄罗斯采取的其他军事行动已经打击到了乌克兰军队。”
The Russian military movements carried the potential to poison any hope that a halt to the five-month-old conflict was any closer, one day after the presidents of both countries, at a summit meeting in Belarus, outwardly professed their desire for a solution. Russia’s behavior also raised the possibility of punitive new Western economic sanctions as a reprisal step.
俄罗斯的军事调遣行动，可能会让任何期待这场持续了五个月的冲突即将结束的希望落空。就在前一天，俄乌两国的总统还在白俄罗斯的一场峰会上对外表示，希望找到一个解决方案。俄罗斯的行为也增加了西方为报复而采取新的惩罚性经济制裁的可能性。
Andriy Lysenko, a spokesman for the Ukrainian military in Kiev, said the Russian armored column entered the town of Amvrosiyivka, south of Donetsk, expanding what Western and Ukrainian officials have described as one of the main fronts in a multipronged, Russia-directed counteroffensive. This week, Ukraine accused Russia of sending an armored column toward the coastal city of Mariupol, far from the fighting around Luhansk and Donetsk, with the aim of diverting Ukrainian forces to deal with that new threat.
身在基辅的乌克兰军方发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)表示，俄罗斯装甲车队进入了顿涅茨克南部的阿姆夫罗西耶夫卡镇。西方和乌克兰官员称，俄罗斯指挥了一场多管齐下的反攻，而此举则扩大了这场反攻中的主要阵线。本周，乌克兰指责俄罗斯向沿海城市马里乌波尔派出了一支装甲部队，目的是分散乌克兰军队的注意力，迫使其应对那里的新威胁。马里乌波尔与卢甘斯克和顿涅茨克周围的战事相距甚远。
The Obama administration accused Russia of lying about its intentions, while European officials angrily demanded answers from the Kremlin. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who perhaps has the most cordial relationship with Mr. Putin, telephoned him on Wednesday to request an explanation, her office said.
奥巴马政府指责俄罗斯没有如实说出自己的意图，而欧洲官员则愤怒地要求克里姆林宫给出答案。德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的办公室则表示，默克尔已于周三致电普京，请其做出解释。默克尔与普京的关系可能已经是最好的了。
Evidence that Russia was seeking to change the course of the conflict was abundant this week in the small southeast border town of Novoazovsk, where Ukrainian forces beat a nervous retreat on Tuesday, under attack from what fleeing soldiers described as columns of tanks, artillery and combat troops coming across the border.
本周，在乌克兰东南部的边陲小镇诺沃亚佐夫斯克，有大量证据表明俄罗斯正试图改变冲突进程。周二，乌克兰军队惊悸不安地撤离该镇，正在逃离的士兵称遭到了多路坦克和火炮以及越境作战部队的攻击。
More fighting and shelling punctuated the area around the town on Wednesday, although it was unclear whether the assailants were Russian forces or members of the Donetsk People’s Republic, the name the separatists have given themselves.
周三，这座城镇的周边地区发生了更多战斗，也遭到了更多炮火袭击，虽然目前尚不清楚袭击者是俄罗斯军队还是顿涅茨克人民共和国(Donetsk People's Republic)成员——这是分裂分子给自己取的名字。
The Obama administration, which has imposed increasingly punitive economic sanctions on Russia because of the Ukraine crisis, has asserted over the past week that the Russians had moved artillery, air-defense systems and armor to help the separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk.
由于乌克兰危机，奥巴马政府对俄罗斯实施了愈加严重的经济制裁。政府在上周断言俄罗斯已调动火炮、防空系统和装甲车，以协助顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克的分裂分子。
“These incursions indicate a Russian-directed counteroffensive is likely underway,” Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman, said Wednesday. At the department’s daily briefing in Washington, Ms. Psaki also criticized what she called the Russian government’s “unwillingness to tell the truth” that its military had sent soldiers as deep as 30 miles inside Ukraine territory.
“这些入侵说明，一场俄罗斯领导的反攻很可能即将展开，”国务院女发言人珍·帕莎其(Jen Psaki)周三表示。在国务院于华盛顿举行的日常发布会上，帕莎其还谴责了俄罗斯政府的行为，称其“不愿意承认”俄罗斯军方已经把士兵部署到了深入乌克兰领土30英里（约合48公里）的地方。
Ms. Psaki apparently was referring to videos of captured Russian soldiers, distributed by the Ukrainian government on Tuesday, that directly challenged Mr. Putin’s assertions that Russia is a mere bystander in the conflict. The videos were publicized just as Mr. Putin was meeting with his Ukraine counterpart, Petro O. Poroshenko, in Belarus.
帕莎其明显指的是乌克兰政府周二公布的抓获俄罗斯士兵的录像，这段录像直接驳斥了普京称俄罗斯在这场冲突中只是一个旁观者的说法。视频公布时，普京正在白俄罗斯与乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O.Poroshenko)会晤。
Russian forces have been trying to help the separatists break the siege of Luhansk and have been fighting to open a corridor to Donetsk from the Russian border, Western officials say.
西方官员称，俄罗斯军队一直试图帮分裂主义者在卢甘斯克突围，而且还试图开辟一条从俄罗斯边境通往顿涅茨克的通道。
The Russian military’s use of artillery from within Ukraine is of special concern to Western military officials, who say Russian artillery has already been used to shell Ukrainian forces near Luhansk. And along with the antiaircraft systems operated by separatists or Russian forces inside Ukraine, the artillery has the potential to alter the balance of power in the struggle for control of eastern Ukraine.
西方军官对俄罗斯军方从乌克兰境内发射炮火的行为尤为担心，他们说卢甘斯克附近的乌克兰军队已经遭到了俄罗斯炮火的攻击。再加上乌克兰境内分裂分子或俄罗斯军队使用的防空系统，在这场以争夺乌克兰东部控制权为目的的战斗中，这些炮火可能会改变力量的对比。
The separatists have asserted that they are using captured Ukrainian equipment. But American officials say they are confident that the artillery in the Krasnodon area of Ukraine is Russia’s since Ukrainian forces have not penetrated that deeply into that separatist-controlled region. American officials also say the separatists have no experience in using such weaponry.
分裂分子坚称，他们使用的是战争中俘获的乌克兰装备。但美国官员称，他们相信乌克兰克拉斯诺顿区域的火炮来自俄罗斯，因为乌克兰军队还没有深入到那片分裂分子所控制的区域。美国官员还说，分裂分子没有使用此类武器的经验。
In Novoazovsk, at least, there was no doubt among the retreating Ukrainians that their assailants were coming from Russia.
至少在诺沃亚佐夫斯克，正在撤退的乌克兰人一直认为，袭击他们的人来自俄罗斯。