LONDON — The European Union’s energy security is under threat — one of its largest suppliers of natural gas has gone rogue. If Vladimir V. Putin’s efforts to destabilize Ukraine had culminated in an invasion, up to 15 percent of Western Europe’s total supply would have been immediately cut off.
伦敦——欧盟能源安全遭受威胁——其最大的天然气供应商之一已经变得肆意妄为。如果普京破坏乌克兰稳定的行动当初升级到了入侵阶段，欧洲多达15%的天然气供应会被当即切断。
Ukraine has the world’s largest gas-transit system. Even if the risk of a conflict there eventually dissolves, Mr. Putin’s Kremlin still presents the European Union with a major energy security problem. The European Union needs to develop emergency plans that focus on quick replacement of lost energy sources — and long-term strategies that free it of dependence on Russia.
乌克兰拥有世界上最大的天然气输送系统。即使乌克兰冲突的风险最终被化解，普京执掌的克里姆林宫仍然是欧盟能源安全的一个主要问题。欧盟需要制定应急预案，聚焦在快速用替代供应弥补损失上，以及提出可以消除欧盟对俄罗斯的依赖的长期战略。
In all, Gazprom provides 27 percent of Europe’s gas supply. Fifteen percent via Ukraine, and the rest through the Nord Stream pipeline under the Baltic Sea and the Yamal pipeline through Belarus and Poland. That 15 percent is much more significant than it might appear because some European Union member states, such as Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia, are largely isolated from the rest of the market and would have difficulty replacing any losses quickly. Moreover, supplies cannot easily be redirected to the Yamal and Nord Stream pipelines. Even if that were so, they would not be able to replace all 80 billion cubic meters transited across Ukraine in 2013.
总的来说，在欧洲获得的所有天然气供应量中，俄罗斯天然气股份工业公司(Gazprom)提供了其中的27%。15%经由乌克兰输送，其余通过波罗的海的北溪线(Nord Stream)和白俄罗斯以及波兰的亚马尔线(Yamal)输送。这15%的意义比听起来更加重要，因为一些欧盟成员国，比如保加利亚、罗马尼亚和斯洛伐克，和欧洲市场的其他部分的管线基本没有接通，难以迅速找到任何替代供应源。此外，天然气供应难以改道到亚马尔线和北溪线。即使改道，也无法达到乌克兰2013年内输送的800亿立方米天然气这个数量。
Russian gas supplies to Europe have always been based upon mutual dependency. But given the annexation of Crimea, the threat to Ukraine and the prospect of further aggression, mutual dependence is no longer a reliable principle for the European Union to count on. An aggressive Russia may begin to see natural gas more as a political lever than a source of revenue. During his annual phone-in program last month, President Putin himself pointed out that 2013 budget revenues from oil were $191 billion, whereas gas revenues were only $28 billion. This willingness to use European gas supplies as a political lever will have only been reinforced by the China-Russia gas agreement announced last week, which provides the Kremlin with an alternative customer for Russia’s huge gas supplies.
一直以来，俄罗斯向欧洲供应天然气都以相互依存的原则为基础。但俄罗斯对克里米亚的吞并，对乌克兰的威胁，以及可能进一步发动侵略的前景，已经导致相互依存原则对欧盟来说不再可靠。咄咄逼人的俄罗斯可能更多地把天然气视为一个政治筹码，而不是一种收入来源。普京总统上个月在例行的年度电视问答节目中指出，俄罗斯2013年预算中石油收入为1910亿美元，天然气只有280亿美元。而且上周中俄宣布签订天然气协议，克里姆林宫为俄罗斯巨大的天然气储备找到了替代客户，因此也更加乐意把对欧的天然气供应视为一个政治筹码了。
In the short-to-medium-term there are only a few options for new supplies. The largest new source for Europe in the next five years is likely to be from the Trans-Anatolian and Trans-Adriatic pipelines running from Azerbaijan’s offshore Caspian fields. Construction of the network, which would bring 10 billion cubic meters of new gas into Europe every year, is scheduled to begin next year and it can always be expanded. The European Union, with American support, would need to negotiate with Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan to gain access to further Caspian offshore resources and to Kurdish northern Iraq. An additional 10 billion cubic meters from any of these sources could undermine Gazprom’s pricing power and market dominance.
从短期到中期，欧洲新的天然气供应来源寥寥无几。未来五年内，最大的天然气新来源很可能是阿塞拜疆的里海天然气田，通过跨安纳托利亚和跨亚得里亚海管线将天然气输送到欧洲。这个管线网络每年可以向欧洲输送100亿立方米天然气，预计从明年开始兴建，而且随时可以扩大规模。欧盟在美国的支持下，需要与阿塞拜疆和土库曼斯坦进行谈判，以进一步获得里海更远地区以及伊拉克北部库尔德人地区的资源。从这些来源中的任何一处获得额外的100亿立方米天然气，可以削弱俄罗斯天然气股份工业公司的定价能力和市场主导地位。
Complications from other potential sources abound: The Cyprus conflict and continuing tensions between Israel and Turkey mean that there is little hope of significant gas supplies from the east Mediterranean region before 2025. American liquid natural gas derived from fracking is unlikely to reach European shores in large quantities much before the middle of the next decade.
其他可能的来源都有着诸多问题：由于塞浦路斯冲突，以及以色列和土耳其之间持续紧张的关系，2025年之前地中海东部地区提供可靠天然气供应的希望不大。同样在2025年之前，美国的液化天然气也不可能大量抵达欧洲海岸。
To obtain significant new energy supplies in the midterm, the European Union has three major options.
为了在中期内获得大量新的可靠能源供应，欧盟有三大选择。
The easiest — and potentially most polluting and controversial — is to make a dash for coal. There is plenty available from America, due to its displacement by shale gas. Coal-fired power stations that have been progressively taken out of service under a European Union directive to shut down the most polluting coal-fired power stations could be refurbished and brought back online. France and Britain, for instance, are in the process of closing down between approximately 3 to 6 gigawatts of coal-fired capacity. (Average British electrical power consumption in 2012 was 35 gigawatts.) Across the European Union, emergency reactivation of coal-fired power stations would add significantly to Europe’s supply options. There would be tremendous political opposition but it could be overcome if the public can be convinced of its urgency.
最简单的——可能也是污染最严重、争议最大的选择——-就是快速转用煤炭。美国因为已经转而使用页岩气，可以向欧洲供应大量燃煤。欧盟之前颁布过一个关闭污染最严重燃煤电厂的规定，已经依据该规定逐步退出服务的燃煤电厂可以翻新和启用。比如，法国和英国正在关闭发电能力约为3至6百万千瓦的燃煤电厂。（2012年英国的平均电力消费量为3500万千瓦）。在整个欧盟，燃煤电厂的紧急重启将为欧洲的能源供应提供一个重要选项。此举会在政治上遭到剧烈反对，但是如果可以让公众相信其紧迫性，这个问题可以克服。
The second option, also politically challenging, would be to reverse the trend against nuclear power, particularly in Germany, where Chancellor Angela Merkel has made the decision to close the country’s nuclear power sector. This too, is a matter of convincing wary citizens of its necessity.
另一种选择在政治上也颇具挑战性，即逆转反核能的趋势。尤其是在德国，总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)已经决定关闭德国核能部门。这同样也需要说服焦虑的市民来相信其必要性。
The third and most green option would be to develop both domestic shale gas production and wind power. Both these sources face significant permitting and planning restrictions. But the European Union and its member states could opt for streamlined procedures on the grounds of energy security.
第三个，同样也最环保的选择就是发展国内页岩气的生产和风能。这些资源在许可和规划方面都面临着诸多限制。但是，欧盟及其成员国可以以能源安全为由，选择精简程序。
There is an understandable reluctance in parts of the political and business establishment to disrupt economic ties in a period of economic austerity. There is also the belief that, just as the Soviet Union did not disrupt energy supplies to Europe during the Cold War, the Russian Federation would not do so now. Though those views are understandable, they do not take account of Mr. Putin’s penchant for regional destabilization to meet his own domestic ends. The Russian Federation sees benefits in a destabilized Europe. This may take the form of “soft” leverage — low gas prices for those who take a pro-Kremlin line, while squeezing those states it finds less amenable.
在这样一个经济紧缩的时代，一些政治和商业领域的领导者不愿意打乱经济关系，这也可以理解。还有人认为，正如苏联在冷战期间也不愿意中断对欧洲的能源供应一样，俄罗斯联邦(Russian Federation)现在也不会这样做。虽然这些观点是可以理解的，但是它们没有把普京对以地区动荡为代价来满足他个人国内目标的强烈欲望考虑进去。俄罗斯联邦看到了扰乱欧洲稳定的好处。这或许会以“软性”影响力的形式呈现——支持克里姆林宫的国家就可以享受较低的天然气价格，而那些表示反对的国家则会受到挤压。
In any case, Europeans can no longer rely on the comfortable principle of mutual dependence. The European Union has to focus sharply on supply security and take the right steps to protect all Europeans, and its own energy future.
不论如何，欧洲都不能再依靠相互依存这个颇为舒适的原则。欧盟必须高度关注能源供应安全，并采取正确的举措来保护所有欧洲人，以及欧洲能源的未来。