SLOVYANSK, Ukraine — Ukrainian security forces and antigovernment rebels clashed on the edges of this rebel-controlled city on Monday as the acting president, Oleksandr V. Turchynov, said roadblocks were being set up around Ukraine’s capital, Kiev, because of fears of disturbances or violence during an emotionally charged holiday later in the week.
乌克兰斯拉维扬斯克——本周一，在这个被反政府武装控制的城市的边缘，乌克兰安全部队与反政府武装进行了交火。就在当天，乌克兰代理总统奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)表示，由于担心本周晚些时候的假日出现干扰活动和暴力冲突，政府正在乌克兰首都基辅周围设置路障。这个假日具有浓厚的感情色彩。
As many as 10 rebels and four soldiers were killed in the fighting, according to the official accounts from both sides, along with a woman who was shot while standing on an apartment balcony during a bloody firefight along the highway to Slovyansk’s east.
在斯拉维扬斯克以东公路沿线上发生的血腥枪战中，有多达十名反政府武装分子和四名士兵丧生，这是双方正式公布的数据。此外还有一名站在公寓阳台上的女子中枪身亡。
But at the end of the day the violence accomplished little for either side besides deepening resentments and anger and appearing to push the crisis further from a chance at peaceful resolution.
但无论如何，双方都没有从暴力中获得什么好处，只不过是加深了怨恨和愤怒，减少了和平解决现有危机的机会。
The rebels yielded a single checkpoint to the government, at Rybkhoz, from which they withdrew during a morning advance by a Ukrainian armored unit. But the antigovernment forces still held Slovyansk, where residents continued to fell trees and stack tires to create obstacles to any military push.
在德莱科斯(Rybkhoz)，一队乌克兰装甲部队在上午的推进过程中夺取了反政府武装的一个检查站，武装分子撤离了该处。但斯拉维扬斯克仍然被反政府势力占据，那里的居民仍在砍伐树木、堆积轮胎，以便制造障碍，阻止军事推进。
The most pitched fighting, at Semyonovka, at the city’s eastern border, ended with both sides pulling back with their wounded or dead, leaving behind pools of blood, burning vehicles and a gas station that was rocked by the explosion of a commercial propane tank. The fighting there also included the civilian death, which is likely to fuel the city’s building sense of anger and grief.
最激烈的战斗发生在该城东部边界的瑟米诺卡(Semyonovka)，结果是双方带着伤亡者各自撤回，留下一滩滩血迹，燃烧的车辆，以及一个被爆炸的商用丙烷气罐损坏的加油站。交火中造成的平民死亡，很可能进一步加剧该城的愤怒和悲伤情绪。
In Kiev, the provisional government said vehicle checkpoints had been set up at strategic locations around the capital in anticipation of potential violence before a holiday on Friday commemorating victory over the Nazis in World War II.
在基辅，临时政府表示，首都已在周围的战略位置上设置了一些车辆检查站，因为本周五是纪念在二战中战胜纳粹的节假日，此前可能会有暴力活动发生。
“War is in effect being waged against us, and we must be ready to repel this aggression,” Mr. Turchynov said, announcing the roadblocks on Monday in an interview on Ukraine’s Channel 5 television station.
“战争实际上正在朝我们袭来，我们必须做好抵抗侵略的准备，”图奇诺夫说，他本周一在接受乌克兰第5频道(Channel 5)电视台的采访时宣布了设置路障的消息。
Mr. Turchynov also said that Parliament would meet in a special closed session on Tuesday for a report by security agencies on measures to stabilize the country. In a statement, Mr. Turchynov urged all lawmakers to attend and said that “important decisions will be taken related to the security of Ukraine.”
图奇诺夫还表示，议会将在本周二举行一个特别闭门会议，讨论安全机构提供的一份关于稳定乌克兰局势的举措的报告。在一份声明中，图奇诺夫敦促所有议员出席这次会议，并表示：“会议上将做出事关乌克兰安全的重要决定。”
The government seemed to be stepping up its efforts to counter the pro-Russian disinformation campaign that has flooded the television airwaves in the country’s east and portrayed the central authorities as illegitimate. Mr. Turchynov’s office released a number of statements, including one that criticized efforts by those it called terrorists to enlist miners from eastern Ukraine in antigovernment actions.
政府似乎在加紧努力，打击亲俄的虚假宣传，这种宣传在该国东部的电视上大行其道，它们称乌克兰中央政权是非法的。图奇诺夫的办公室发布了一些声明，其中一份称恐怖分子正在争取让乌克兰东部的矿工参加反政府行动，它对这种做法进行了指责。
Most of the residents of Slovyansk, a small industrial city, have never experienced war, and in Khimik, a neighborhood about a mile and a half from the battle, people crowded on the upper-story balconies of an apartment building to listen and watch as the two sides clashed at an intersection beside the railway crossing in Semyonovka.
斯拉维扬斯克是座小型工业城市，大多数居民没有经历过战争。在离战斗区约一英里半的科基米克居民区，人们挤在一幢公寓大楼高层的阳台上，聆听和观看政府军和反政府武装在瑟米诺卡一个铁道旁的路口处发生的交火。
This curiosity proved fatal, according to Sergey N. Sheptenko, when his wife, Irina Boevets, 30, was struck by a bullet in the head. Mr. Sheptenko found her moments later, lying on her right side in a pool of blood.
这种好奇心造成了生命损失：谢尔盖·N·谢普滕科(Sergey N. Sheptenko)说，他30岁的妻子伊琳娜·波娃兹(Irina Boevets)头部中弹。片刻之后，谢普滕科发现她右侧身体着地，卧在血泊中。
Standing with reddened eyes before his apartment door, he seemed in shock, describing a loss he had only begun to know.
他似乎处于惊骇中，站在公寓门前，眼睛发红，讲述自己刚刚才开始经历的丧妻之痛。
“There is no one, no one is home,” he whispered, hoarsely. “Only silence.”
“没有人，没有人在家，”他低声说，声音嘶哑。“完全寂静无声。”
It was not clear whether Ms. Boevets was targeted or struck by a stray bullet; her husband said he suspected a sniper.
目前还不清楚波娃兹究竟是攻击目标，还是被流弹击中的；她丈夫说，他怀疑是一名狙击手开的枪。
The fighting at Semyonovka raged in the morning after rebels took up a position on the highway, one witness said. The Ukrainian government said the rebels ambushed a convoy, but the witness described it differently, saying that a patrol of armored vehicles attacked the new rebel position, killing many of them.
瑟米诺卡的一位目击者说，在反政府武装分子在公路上设立了一个据点之后，早上爆发了激战。乌克兰政府表示，反政府武装伏击了一个车队，但这名目击者却有不同的说法，他说一个装甲车巡逻队袭击了反政府武装的新据点，导致很多武装分子丧生。