MARIUPOL, Ukraine — In what could represent a decisive turning point in the Ukrainian conflict and a setback for Russia, thousands of steelworkers fanned out Thursday over the city of Mariupol, establishing control over the streets and routing the pro-Kremlin militants who seized control several weeks ago.
乌克兰马里乌波尔——周四，上万名钢铁工人在马里乌波尔四下巡逻，控制了大街小巷，也击溃了数周前夺取控制权的亲俄武装人员。这一事件可能代表了乌克兰冲突中的一个决定性转折，也让俄罗斯受到了挫折。
By late Thursday, miners and steelworkers had deployed in at least five cities, including the regional capital, Donetsk, though they had not yet become the dominant force there that they are in Mariupol, the region's second largest city and the site just last week of bloody confrontations between Ukrainian troops and pro-Russian militants,.
截至周四晚间，已经有至少五座城市的矿工和钢铁工人组织了起来，包括该州的首府顿涅茨克市，不过他们在那里还没有像在马里乌波尔一样，取得主导优势。马里乌波尔是该州内的第二大城市，就在上周，乌克兰部队与亲俄罗斯的武装人员之间还在这里发生过流血冲突。
The workers are employees of Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine's richest man and a recent convert to the side of Ukrainian unity, who on Wednesday issued a statement rejecting the separatist cause of the self-styled Donetsk People's Republic but endorsing greater local autonomy. His decision to throw his weight fully behind the interim government in Kiev could inflict a body blow to the separatists, already reeling from Russian President Vladimir V. Putin's withdrawal of full-throated support last week.
这些工人都是乌克兰首富里纳特·艾哈迈托夫(Rinat Akhmetov)的雇员。艾哈迈托夫最近改变立场转而支持乌克兰统一，周三他发布声明称，不接受分离派自称顿涅茨克人民共和国(Donetsk People's Republic)的运动，但支持扩大地方自治。艾哈迈托夫动用自己巨大的影响力，完全支持基辅的临时政府，这一决定可能会对分离派势力造成重大打击。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)上周不再对分离派表示全面支持，因而分离派已经进退失据。
Wearing only their protective clothing and hard-hats, the workers said they were “outside politics” and just trying to establish order.
这些工人只是身穿防护服和安全头盔，他们表示自己“没有参与政治”，只是在努力维持秩序。
Faced with waves of steelworkers joined by the police, the pro-Russian protesters have melted away, as has any sign of the Donetsk People's Republic or its representatives. Backhoes and dump trucks from the steelworkers' factory dismantled all the barricades, without resistance from either demonstrators or pro-Russian militants.
当地警方也对钢铁工人给予了支持。面对一波波的人潮，亲俄示威者已经烟消云散，顿涅茨克人民共和国存在的任何迹象，及其代表人物都已不见踪影。钢铁工人用工厂里的挖掘机和自卸卡车拆除了所有路障，过程中没有遇到示威者或亲俄武装人员的阻挠。
Metinvest and DTEK, the two subsidiaries in metals and mining of Akhmetov's company, System Capital Management, together employ 280,000 people in eastern Ukraine, forming an important and possibly decisive force in the region. They have a history of political activism stretching back to miner strikes that helped bring down the Soviet Union. In this conflict, they had not previously signaled their allegiance to one side or the other.
艾哈迈托夫所有的系统资本管理公司(System Capital Management)旗下的两家从事金属和采矿的企业Metinvest和DTEK，在乌克兰东部共计雇有28万名员工，在这一地区是一支可能具有决定意义的重要力量。这些工人从事政治活动的历史，可以追溯到促使苏联解体的矿工罢工。在这次冲突中，他们此前没有对任何一方表示过支持。
It was still too early to ascertain whether the separatists would regroup to resist the industrial workers, though none were to be found in and around Mariupol on Thursday, not even in the public administration building they had been occupying.
现在尚无法判断分离派是否会重新集结，以对抗产业工人，不过周四在马里乌波尔市内和周边区域，甚至在一直由分离派占据的公共行政大楼里，都没有发现他们的踪迹。
“We have to bring order to the city,” Alexei Gorlov, a steelworker, said of his motivation for joining one of the unpaid and voluntary patrols that were organized at the Ilych Steel Works.
钢铁工人阿列克谢·戈尔洛夫(Alexei Gorlov)参加了在伊里奇钢铁厂(Ilych Steel Works)组织起来的无薪志愿巡逻组。在解释自己的动机时，他说，“我们必须给这座城市带来秩序。”
Groups of six or so steelworkers accompany two policemen on the patrols. “People organize themselves,” he said. “In times of troubles, that is how it works.”
每个巡逻组中有大概六名钢铁工人和两名警察。“人们要自发地组织起来，”他说，“在艰难时刻，就要这么办。”
Workers from another mill, Azov Steel, took one side of the city, while the Ilych factory took the other. Both groups were trying to convince longshoremen to patrol the port, Gorlov said.
伊里奇钢厂的工人们负责城市的一侧，另一家钢厂阿佐夫钢铁厂(Azov Steel)的工人们负责城市的另一侧。戈尔洛夫说，两家工厂的工人都在试图劝说码头工人巡逻码头。
The two steel mills fly Ukrainian flags outside their headquarters, though, like so much else in Ukraine, the lines of loyalty were muddled. At least a portion of the police in the city had mutinied on Friday, leading to a shootout with the Ukrainian national guard, which left at least seven people dead.
两家钢铁企业的总部外都飘扬着乌克兰国旗，不过就像在乌克兰其他许多地方一样，人们的政治立场颇为复杂。上周五，市内至少有一部分警察发生哗变，导致与乌克兰国民警卫队发生枪战，致使至少七人死亡。
The chief executive of Ilych Steel, Yuri Zinchenko, is leading the steelworker patrols in the city. He said the company had remained on the sidelines as long as possible, while tacitly supporting unity with Ukraine by conveying to workers that a separatist victory would close export markets in Europe, devastating the factory and the town.
伊里奇钢铁厂的首席执行官尤里·晋琛科(Yuri Zinchenko)领导着钢铁工人在市内巡逻。他说公司此前尽其所能置身事外，但同时也心照不宣地支持乌克兰统一，并向工人们表示，如果分离派胜利，向欧洲出口的大门就会关闭，工厂甚至整个城市都会垮掉。
The Ilych Steel Works, a grimy scene of mid-20th century industrial sprawl, is one of Ukraine's most important factories, producing 5 million tons of slab steel a year. About 50,000 people work in the steel industry in Mariupol, a city of 460,000. So far, 18,000 steelworkers have signed up for the patrols, Metinvest executives say.
伊里奇钢铁厂一片脏乱景象，仿佛是20世纪中期的工业区。它是乌克兰最重要的工厂之一，每年生产500万吨钢条。马里乌波尔有46万名居民，其中约有5万人从事钢铁工作。Metinvest公司高管表示，已经有1.8万名钢铁工人报名参加了巡逻队。
“There's no family in Mariupol that's not connected to the steel industry,” Zinchenko said in an interview at his desk, decorated with a miniature Ukrainian flag. He said he had negotiated a truce with local representatives of the Donetsk People's Republic, but not the group's leaders.
晋琛科坐在自己的办公桌前接受采访时说，“在马里乌波尔，没有哪个家庭跟钢铁工业没关联。”他的桌上摆放着一面小小的乌克兰国旗。他说，他此前曾与顿涅茨克人民共和国的本地代表谈判，双方决定暂停冲突，不过没有与后者的领导人谈判。
Akhmetov's statement spelled out the daunting problems for the regional economy should the Donetsk People's Republic win its struggle with the Kiev government.
艾哈迈托夫发表的一则声明谈到，一旦顿涅茨克人民共和国在与基辅政府的对抗中取胜，该地区的经济就会遇到严峻的问题。