DONETSK, Ukraine — The campaign billboards in this city suggested a tight race between Aleksandr Zakharchenko and Aleksandr Zakharchenko.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——从这座城市的竞选广告牌来看，亚历山大·扎哈尔琴科(Aleksandr Zakharchenko)与亚历山大·扎哈尔琴科(Aleksandr Zakharchenko)势均力敌。
As voters in rebel-held areas of Ukraine went to the polls on Sunday, in defiance of the central government, the European Union and the United States, the only visible campaign advertising in Donetsk was in support of the current separatist leader, Mr. Zakharchenko, who is, not surprisingly, expected to win.
周日，被叛乱分子控制的乌克兰地区的选民无视中央政府、欧盟及美国，前往投票站投票，顿涅茨克地区唯一可见的竞选广告是支持现在的分裂派领导人扎哈尔琴科的广告，不出意外的话，他将赢得选举。
Rather than offering a range of plausible opposition candidates, the voting for members of Parliament and heads of state in Donetsk and the other breakaway region of eastern Ukraine, Luhansk, was significant for highlighting Ukraine’s loss of control over these territories, and Russia’s strengthening influence.
在顿涅茨克及乌克兰东部另一个分裂地区——卢甘斯克的议会成员国家首脑的选举中，看不到各色反对派候选人，它的意义在于突显出乌克兰已经失去对这些地区的控制，俄罗斯的影响力不断加强。
The elections will likely cement the status quo for Luhansk and Donetsk, which have been controlled in large part by pro-Russian separatists since the spring. Russia has said it will recognize the results, while Ukraine, along with European governments and the United States, has said it will not, maintaining that the elections violated a cease-fire agreement signed in Minsk in September.
选举活动可能会巩固卢甘斯克和顿涅茨克的现状，自今年春天以来，这些地区在很大程度上处于亲俄分裂分子的控制下。俄罗斯曾表示将承认选举结果，而乌克兰、欧盟政府及美国则表示，他们不会承认结果，坚称选举活动违反了今年9月在明斯克签署的停火协议。
The cease-fire, which has been unraveling in daily shooting along the front lines, called for local elections to take place under Ukrainian law, and Kiev has scheduled city and village votes for Dec. 7. However, rebel leaders say they have no intention of allowing them to take place in Donetsk and Luhansk, and scheduled their vote for Sunday instead.
停火协议要求地方根据乌克兰法律开展选举活动，但前线每天都会出现开枪的情况，该协议已被瓦解，基辅将城市及村庄的投票时间定在12月7日。但叛军领袖表示，他们不打算在顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克举行上述投票活动，并将他们的投票时间定在周日。
“We hope that it will be a free declaration of will and that nobody will try to ruin it from the outside,” Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia told the Russian newspaper Izvestia.
俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)告诉俄罗斯《消息报》(Izvestia)，“我们希望，这是自由意志的展示，没人会试图从外部毁掉它。”
Western governments, including Germany and France, have called on Russia to refrain from recognizing the rebel votes. Secretary of State John Kerry called the elections a “clear violation” of the Minsk agreement.
包括德国及法国在内的西方政府曾呼吁俄罗斯不要承认叛乱分子的投票结果。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)称这些选举活动“明显违反”了明斯克停火协议。
Rebel election officials said about half a million people had voted by midafternoon in Donetsk, amid rising military tensions. The Ukrainian military said Sunday that Russia had in recent days bolstered equipment supplies to separatists. On Saturday, a column of 62 military trucks, including several carrying rocket launchers, drove through Donetsk.
反叛团体选举官员表示，在军事紧张局势加剧的情况下，截至下午三点，顿涅茨克已有大约50万民众投票。乌克兰军方在周日表示，俄罗斯近日增加了对分裂分子的装备供给。周六，62辆军用卡车开过了顿涅茨克，其中几辆车运载着火箭发射器。
Ukrainians voted overwhelmingly last week for the pro-European political parties led by President Petro O. Poroshenko and Prime Minister Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk; the separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk did not take part in those elections and scheduled their own.
上周，乌克兰人投票支持由总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)和总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)领导的亲西方政党，使其获得了压倒性的票数；顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克的分裂分子没有参与此次投票，自己设定了投票时间。
In an effort to draw voters to an election lacking suspense — as the existing rebel leaders, including Mr. Zakharchenko, a former electrician, seem sure to stay on — polling stations opened Sunday in Donetsk schools with gigantic piles of cabbage, potatoes, carrots, beets and onions in the yards outside; at one site, the vegetables were sold at far below market price. At other sites organizers gave the vegetables away. Several polling stations offered live entertainment, ranging from a three-member Slavic folk band to a man playing an accordion.
包括电工出身的扎哈尔琴科在内的现有反叛团体领导人看起来肯定能留任，为了吸引选民参加这场没有悬念的选举活动，分裂分子周日在顿涅茨克的学校开设投票站，学校外的院子里放置了成堆的卷心菜、马铃薯、胡萝卜、甜菜及洋葱；在其中一个投票现场，蔬菜的售价远低于市场价格。在另一个投票现场，组织者干脆发放蔬菜。还有几个投票站提供现场演出，三人斯拉夫民歌乐队和一名拉手风琴的男子等演出人员参加了演出。
In a practice common in authoritarian post-Soviet countries, one candidate in Donetsk endorsed his opponent, Mr. Zakharchenko, in the race. In a 2012 presidential race in Turkmenistan, for example, nominally competing candidates gave speeches standing in front of giant posters of the incumbent, who won.
在顿涅茨克，一名候选人在竞选期间公开支持其竞争对手，这种做法在威权统治的前苏联国家很普遍。比如，在2012年土库曼斯坦总统大选中，名义上相互竞争的候选人，站在获胜的现任的巨幅海报前面发表演讲。
“We don’t have any differences, none at all,” Yuri V. Sivokonenko, the head of a police union and candidate for head of state, said in an interview. “I didn’t ask people to vote for me, because I don’t have any differences in principle with Zakharchenko.”
“我们没有任何分歧，完全没有，”政府首脑候选人、警察工会领导人尤里·V·西沃科年科(Yuri V. Sivokonenko)在接受采访时说。“我没有让人们给我投票，因为在原则上，我和扎哈尔琴科没有任何不同。”
Mr. Sivokonenko said he had put up no campaign advertising because he lacked funds for it. A deputy speaker of the Parliament of Novorossia, Aleksandr Kofman, was also on the ballot but ran a low-profile campaign. No candidates ran in open opposition to the current rebel leadership. The overriding goal of the election, Mr. Sivokonenko said, was to boost the legitimacy of the separatists’ state. “By the end of the day, the Donetsk People’s Republic will have a new status,” he said. “The election confirms our status as a state.”
西沃科年科表示由于缺乏资金，自己没有投放竞选广告。“新俄罗斯”(Novorossia)议会副议长亚历山大·科夫曼(Aleksandr Kofman)也是候选人之一，但其竞选活动颇为低调。没有候选人公开与现任反政府武装领导人唱反调。西沃科年科称此次选举的首要目标，是巩固分裂分子政权的合法性。“到今天结束的时候，顿涅茨克人民共和国将获得一个新的身份，”他说。“选举将确认我们作为一个国家的身份。”
Long lines formed at polling stations in Donetsk. No voter lists existed, raising the risk of duplicate voting. The Donetsk People’s Republic accepted ballots sent by email if voters attached a scanned copy of a passport.
顿涅茨克的投票站排起了长队。没有选民名单，这带来了重复投票的风险。如果选民附上了护照的扫描件，顿涅茨克人民共和国也接受通过电子邮件发送的选票。