KIEV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s failure to enforce its own ultimatums and its appeal on Monday to the United Nations to send peacekeepers laid bare a grim reality for the shaky government in Kiev, where political leaders and security forces have few reliable ways to confront Russian-backed separatists in the restive east.
乌克兰基辅——周一，乌克兰未能将它发出的最后通牒付诸实施，也没能说服联合国派出维和人员，暴露出了摇摇欲坠的基辅政府面临的严峻现实。面对俄罗斯支持下的分裂主义分子在动荡的东部地区采取的行动，基辅的政治领导人和安全力量束手无策。
A deadline set by Ukraine’s acting president for the start of a “large-scale antiterrorist operation” in the east passed without any clear police or military intervention. Meanwhile, pro-Russian militants seized yet another government building in the Donetsk region, bringing to at least nine the number of eastern towns now swept up in a spiraling insurgency.
乌克兰代总统设下的在东部启动“大规模反恐行动”的最后期限已过，但警方和军方并未明显介入。与此同时，亲俄罗斯的激进分子又占领了顿涅茨克的另一栋政府大楼，至此，东部至少有九座城市陷入到一场愈演愈烈的叛乱运动中。
The country’s acting president, Oleksandr V. Turchynov, asked the United Nations to send peacekeepers. But the move was widely viewed as an act of desperation, given that Russia holds a veto at the United Nations Security Council and is unlikely to assent to a such a request.
代总统奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)请联合国派出维和力量。但考虑到俄罗斯在联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)有一票否决权，并且不太可能同意类似请求，此举被广泛认为是绝望的表现。
The confused and passive response underscored Kiev’s limited options in challenging pro-Russian militants and their backers in Moscow. Too assertive a response could cause heavy civilian casualties and play into Moscow’s narrative that Russians and Russian speakers in Ukraine are threatened and need protection. Too timid a response risks inviting more meddling from Moscow or giving free rein to local armed militants.
混乱且被动的应对，表明在挑战亲俄罗斯激进分子，以及他们的俄罗斯支持者时，基辅的选择有限。过于坚决的应对会造成大量平民伤亡，正好印证了俄罗斯称乌克兰境内的俄罗斯人和说俄语的人受到了威胁，需要保护的说法。过于怯懦的应对又可能会招致俄罗斯的更多干涉，或是放任地方武装分子。
Ukraine’s armed forces, demoralized and underequipped, are so short of funds that when the government ordered them on high alert last month as Russian forces seized Crimea, a Ukrainian billionaire had to buy the military fuel. The businessman, Ihor Kolomoysky, now the governor of the Dnipropetrovsk region next to Donetsk, said he put up around $5 million of his own money to pay for gasoline and batteries so that Ukrainian military vehicles could leave their garages and helicopters could get off the ground.
乌克兰的武装力量士气低落，装备落后，资金极其缺乏，以至于当上月俄罗斯军队占领克里米亚，政府下令他们处于高度戒备状态时，乌克兰的一名亿万富翁不得不为军方购买燃料。这位名叫伊霍尔·科洛莫伊斯基(Ihor Kolomoysky)的商人现在是紧挨着顿涅茨克的第聂伯彼得罗夫斯克地区的州长。他说自己提供了大约500万美元购买汽油和电池，乌克兰军用车辆才得以驶离车库，直升飞机才得以从地面起飞。
Ukraine’s intelligence agency, the State Security Service, known as SBU, is so riddled with Russian informers that when John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director, visited Kiev over the weekend on a supposedly secret trip, Russian state news media swiftly revealed his visit and declared it evidence that Washington was calling the shots in Ukraine and pushing for a crackdown in the east.
乌克兰情报机构国家安全局（State Security Service，简称SBU）里到处是给俄罗斯通风报信的人，以至于当中央情报局(CIA)局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)周末对基辅进行本应是秘密的访问时，俄罗斯官方新闻媒体很快便披露了这个消息，并宣称这是华盛顿正在操纵乌克兰，推动乌克兰在东部实行镇压的证据。
Even Alfa, an elite Ukrainian special forces unit that takes pride in taking on perilous missions, has appeared feckless in its response to the unrest in the east.
即便是以执行危险任务为荣的乌克兰精英特种部队阿尔法(Alfa)，也似乎在应对东部动荡的过程中表现得软弱无能。
It lost an officer on Sunday to gunfire, apparently from the pro-Russian side in Slovyansk. The force has made no headway since in entering the city, never mind freeing government buildings there from unidentified gunmen.
阿尔法在周日的交火中失去了一名官员，对方看来是斯拉维扬斯克的亲俄罗斯势力。这支部队在进入该市后没有取得任何进展，更别说从身份不明的武装分子手里夺回政府大楼了。
As with other arms of Ukraine’s security and intelligence services, some members have divided loyalties and seem disinclined to engage in a fight against pro-Moscow militants that would put older women and other residents who support the gunmen in the line of fire.
与乌克兰安全机构和情报机构的其他武装力量一样，阿尔法的部分成员的忠诚动摇了，似乎不愿参加一场与亲莫斯科的激进分子为敌的斗争。那些激进分子会让支持武装分子的老妇人和其他居民上前线。
Alfa, under investigation for its role in cracking down on protesters in the capital during the uprising against the ousted president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, did not deploy, as expected, to remove pro-Russian militants from Slovyansk on Monday.
正如所预料的一样，阿尔法在周一并没有采取行动，把亲俄罗斯激进分子赶出斯拉维扬斯克。该部队正因在反抗前总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的活动期间，在镇压首都抗议者中所起的作用而接受调查。
The government’s failure to take back control of Slovyansk and other eastern towns has humiliated and infuriated Ukrainians who had hoped that the ouster of Mr. Yanukovych would allow their country to move out of Moscow’s shadow toward Europe.
一些乌克兰人希望亚努科维奇的下台能让他们的国家走出俄罗斯的阴影，向欧洲靠拢，而政府未能夺回对斯拉维扬斯克和东部其他一些城镇的控制权，这让他们觉得丢脸和愤怒。
“We have been left defenseless,” shouted a uniformed Cossack from a stage in Kiev’s Independence Square, the focal point of three months of protests against Mr. Yanukovych and now a magnet for those unhappy with what has happened since he fled to Russia in February. “I ask the government to give us arms — what we need is this,” he said, waving a Kalashnikov rifle to cheers from the crowd.
“我们毫无防备，”一名身穿制服的哥萨克人在基辅独立广场(Independence Square)的台上高声喊道。独立广场曾是持续三个月的反亚努科维奇抗议活动的焦点，现在在那里聚集的人，不满的是自从亚努科维奇2月逃往俄罗斯后所发生的事情。“我请求政府给我们武器——这才是我们需要的，”他一边说，一边在人群的欢呼声中挥舞着一把卡拉什尼科夫冲锋枪。
Photographs posted on social media websites on Monday showed Ukrainian tanks purportedly on the main road north of Slovyansk, suggesting that the Kiev government was gearing up for a counterattack or at least a show of force to appease critics that it has not done enough to protect eastern Ukraine from the fate of Crimea, which Russia annexed last month.
在周一出现在社交媒体网站上的照片看，乌克兰的坦克据称出现在了斯拉维扬斯克以北的主干道上，这表明基辅政府正在为反击做准备，或者至少是在展示自己的力量，以安抚批评人士。这些批评人士认为，基辅政府没有采取充分行动去避免乌克兰东部步克里米亚的后尘。克里米亚于上月被俄罗斯吞并。
The rebellion in Donetsk and other eastern provinces presents Kiev with a choice of using extensive force that might only expand so far modest public support in the east for the militants or simply pleading for calm, a course that has so far only emboldened the pro-Russian rebels. It is dilemma that would not be easy even if Ukraine had a completely loyal security and military machine, but not having one makes the choice far more difficult.
顿涅茨克和其他东部省份爆发的叛乱让基辅面临着一个选择，是全面动武还是呼吁各方保持冷静。迄今为止，东部民众对激进分子的支持还比较温和，动用大量军队可能只会增加民众对他们的支持，而截至目前，呼吁各方保持冷静这种方式只是让亲俄罗斯叛乱分子更大胆了。即使乌克兰拥有一个绝对忠诚的安全和军事机器，这一困境也不易解决，而现在连这也没有，就让选择愈发困难了。
The SBU, under new leadership since Ukraine’s February revolution, has repeatedly boasted of catching suspected Russian operatives in the east, but it has not yet made public any solid evidence to support Kiev’s assertions that the mayhem in Donetsk and neighboring provinces has been orchestrated and financed by Moscow. This has left the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, free to taunt Kiev and the West for making accusations they have not yet substantiated. It has also compromised Ukraine’s efforts to compete, at least in eastern Ukraine and in Russia itself, with Moscow’s own narrative of Western meddling.
在2月的革命后，有了新任领导人的SBU已多次吹嘘说，在东部抓到了疑似俄罗斯特工的人，但尚未公布确凿证据，以证明是俄罗斯在精心安排和资助顿涅茨克及邻近省份的叛乱。这让俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)可以尽情嘲讽乌克兰和西方，说他们的谴责是没有依据的。这样让乌克兰无从反驳莫斯科有关西方实施干预的说法，至少在乌克兰东部和俄罗斯国内是这样。
Alfa, by contrast, does appear to be more or less functioning, but its officers, bitter at being challenged over their role under Mr. Yanukovych, do not understand when “you tell them one day that they are murderers and then send them the next day to free a building” in Donetsk, said Serhiy Skorokhvatov, a former officer in the force and president of its veterans association.
相比之下，阿尔法看起来的确多少是在行动。但前阿尔法官员、阿尔法老兵协会主席谢尔盖·斯科罗赫瓦托夫(Serhiy Skorokhvatov)称，阿尔法的军官对因在亚努科维奇领导下扮演的角色而接受质疑感到愤恨，他们不明白，“你们前一天说他们是凶手，第二天却派他们去夺回顿涅茨克的一栋大楼。”