DONETSK, Ukraine — Rebel election committees announced on Monday that the leaders of two breakaway regions in Ukraine had won enough votes to stay in power, as expected, and Russia’s Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying it “respected” the voting.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——反政府军选举委员会周一宣布，两个从乌克兰分裂出去的地区的领导人赢得了足够多的选票，将继续执政，正如人们所预料的。俄罗斯外交部发表声明表示俄罗斯“尊重”投票结果。
The central election committee in Donetsk said that the separatist leader Aleksandr Zakharchenko, the prime minister of the breakaway region called the Donetsk People’s Republic, had won the balloting there with about 78 percent of the vote. He will now have the title of head of the region. In the other breakaway region, Luhansk, election officials said Igor Plotnitsky had been elected as leader with about 63 percent of the vote.
顿涅茨克中央选举委员会说，分裂派领导人亚历山大·扎哈尔琴科(Alekxandr Zakharchenko)赢得了约78％的选票数量，他是被称为“顿涅茨克人民共和国”的分裂地区的首相。现在，他将拥有分裂区域首脑的称号。另一个分裂地区卢甘斯克的选举官员说，伊戈尔·普洛特尼茨基(Igor Plotnitsky)以约63%的选票当选了地区领导人。
The European Union and the United States had implored Russia to refrain from recognizing the vote, and the announcement in Moscow again widened a breach with Western governments over strategies for resolving the crisis in Ukraine.
欧盟和美国曾恳求俄罗斯不要承认投票结果，莫斯科的宣布再度加深了在解决乌克兰危机的战略问题上与西方政府之间的破裂。
The Russian Foreign Ministry issued a statement carried by the government news agency Tass that said “the elections in Donetsk and Luhansk regions were held in an organized way in general and with high voter turnout.” The statement said the voting showed that “the elected representatives have received a mandate to solve political tasks and restore normal life in the regions.”
俄罗斯外交部的声明是由政府新闻机构塔斯社发布的，声明说，“顿涅茨克地区和卢甘斯克地区的选举总体上是有组织地进行的，并有较高的选民投票率。”声明称，投票结果显示，“当选的代表得到了解决政治任务、恢复这些地区正常生活的合法权力。”
The outcome of the vote was never in much doubt. Rather than offering a range of plausible opposition candidates, the voting for members of Parliament and heads of state in Donetsk and Luhansk was significant in highlighting Ukraine’s loss of control over those territories, and Russia’s strengthening influence.
投票结果从未有过多大疑问。投票选举国会议员、以及顿涅茨克与卢甘斯克两国的领导人，并不是要提供一批可信的反对派候选人，而是凸显了乌克兰对这些地区的失控、以及俄罗斯日益强化的影响。
After voting, Mr. Zakharchenko said he had cast his vote for “peace,” the news agency RIA Novosti reported, because the election would force the central government in Kiev to “recognize us” and “give us our land back without a fight.” He added that he would “establish good diplomatic relations.”
投票结束后，扎哈尔琴科说，他为“和平”投下自己的一票，据俄新社报道，因为选举结果将迫使基辅的中央政府“承认我们”，“把我们的土地还给我们，不需要再为此而战。”他补充说，他会”建立良好的外交关系。”
In a statement on Sunday, Ukraine’s president, Petro O. Poroshenko, called the election a “farce” and again appealed to Russia to reject the results.
在上周日发表的声明中，乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)称选举为“闹剧”，并再次呼吁俄罗斯不承认其结果。