DONETSK, Ukraine — The Ukrainian Army appears to have fired cluster munitions on several occasions into the heart of Donetsk, unleashing a weapon banned in much of the world into a rebel-held city with a peacetime population of more than one million, according to physical evidence at the scene and interviews with witnesses and victims.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——现场的实物证据以及对受害者和目击证人的采访显示，乌克兰军队似乎多次向顿涅茨克市的中心区域发射集束炸弹。这种武器在世界许多地区已被禁止。这座被反对派控制的城市和平时期人口有100万以上。
Sites where rockets fell in the city on Oct. 2 and Oct. 5 showed clear signs that cluster munitions had been fired from the direction of army-held territory, where misfired artillery rockets still containing cluster bomblets were found by villagers in farm fields.
从10月2日和5日落在这座城市的多枚火箭弹的落点来看，有明确迹象显示，这些集束炸弹是从政府军控制的区域射出的，而在那里，村民在农田中发现了一些故障火箭弹，里面仍然留有一些集束炸弹。
The two attacks wounded at least six people and killed a Swiss employee of the International Red Cross based in Donetsk.
这两次袭击导致至少六人受伤，以及国际红十字会(International Red Cross)驻顿涅茨克市的一名瑞士籍雇员死亡。
If confirmed, the use of cluster bombs by the pro-Western government could complicate efforts to reunite the country, as residents of the east have grown increasingly bitter over the Ukrainian Army’s tactics to oust pro-Russian rebels.
如果证实亲西方的政府动用了集束炸弹，可能会使统一乌克兰的行动变得更加困难。因为目前，乌克兰军方驱赶亲俄罗斯反对派的手段已经令东部居民心中的怨恨不断加深。
Further, in a report released late Monday, Human Rights Watch says the rebels have most likely used cluster weapons in the conflict as well, a detail that The New York Times could not independently verify.
此外，人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)在周一晚间公布的一份报告中称，反对派也极有可能在冲突中动用了集束武器。《纽约时报》无法独立证实该信息。
The army’s use of cluster munitions, which shower small bomblets around a large area, could also add credibility to Moscow’s version of the conflict, which is that the Ukrainian national government is engaged in a punitive war against its own citizens. The two October strikes occurred nearly a month after President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine signed a cease-fire agreement with rebel representatives.
集束炸弹可以让小型炸弹像雨点一样落在一大片区域里。军方动用集束炸弹的做法，可能还会让外界更加相信莫斯科对冲突的说法，即乌克兰政府实施了针对本国公民的惩罚性战争。10月份的这两次袭击发生近一个月前，乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)刚与反对派代表签署了一份停火协议。
“It’s pretty clear that cluster munitions are being used indiscriminately in populated areas, particularly in attacks in early October in Donetsk city,” said Mark Hiznay, senior arms researcher at Human Rights Watch, in emailed comments after the report was completed. “The military logic behind these attacks is not apparent, and these attacks should stop, because they put too many civilians at risk.”
“集束炸弹显然被不加甄别地投放到了人口稠密的地区，在10月初顿涅茨克市遭遇的袭击中尤其如此，”报告完成后，人权观察组织的高级武器研究员马克·西兹内(Mark Hiznay)在邮件中说。“这些袭击背后的逻辑却并不明显，此类袭击应该停止，因为它们把太多平民置于危险之中。”
Press officers for the Ukrainian military denied that their troops had used cluster weapons during the conflict and said that the rocket strikes against Donetsk in early October should be investigated once it was safe to do so. They also said that rebels in the area had access to powerful rocket systems from Russia that could fire cluster munitions.
乌克兰军方的多位新闻官均否认部队在冲突中使用了集束武器，并表示，只要能确保安全，就应该对顿涅茨克10月初遭受的火箭袭击进行调查。他们还表示，该地区的反对派能从俄罗斯获得强大的火箭装置，这些火箭装置可以发射集束炸弹。
However, munition fragments found in and around Donetsk and interviews with witnesses indicate that the cluster munitions that struck Oct. 2 and Oct. 5 were most likely fired by Ukrainian troops stationed southwest of the city, according to Human Rights Watch and a review by The Times. Witnesses there reported seeing rocket launches from those troops’ positions toward the city at times that coincide with the strikes.
不过，根据人权观察和时报的调查，在顿涅茨克市及周边地区发现的弹药残片，以及对目击者的采访显示，10月2号和5号发射的集束弹药极有可能是驻扎在城市西南部的乌克兰军队发射的。当地的目击者称，看到过这些部队的驻地向城市发射火箭弹，而时间与这两次袭击刚好吻合。
Human Rights Watch says in its report that cluster weapons have been used against population centers in eastern Ukraine at least 12 times, including the strikes on Donetsk, during the conflict, and possibly many more. The report said that both sides were probably culpable, in attacks that “may amount to war crimes” in a grinding conflict that has claimed at least 3,700 lives, including those of many civilians.
人权观察组织在报告中说，集束武器至少12次被用来针对乌克兰东部的人口中心，包括冲突中对顿涅茨克的袭击，或许除此之外还有许多次。报告称，在这些“可能构成战争罪”的袭击活动中，双方可能都脱不了干系。双方的艰苦战争已经夺去了至少3700条生命，其中包括许多平民。
The report, which included incidents uncovered by The Times, says there is “particularly strong evidence” that Ukrainian government troops carried out the two October attacks against Donetsk.
这份报告中包括了时报率先披露的一些事件。报告称，“极有力的证据”表明，顿涅茨克10月份遭受的两次袭击是乌克兰政府军实施的。
An August cluster-munitions attack on the village of Starobesheve, which was in Ukrainian Army hands, was probably carried out either by pro-Russian rebels or by Russian troops, the report says.
报告称，乌克兰军方控制的旧别舍沃村8月份遭到的集束炸弹袭击，可能是亲俄罗斯的反对派或俄罗斯军队所为。
Beginning in October, a series of strikes against Donetsk using certain cluster weapons fired from Uragan rockets came from the southwest of the city. The timing of at least two rocket launches from the same location corresponded to cluster munition strikes that hit Donetsk from a southwesterly trajectory, according to Human Rights Watch and The Times.
从10月开始，针对顿涅茨克的一系列袭击都动用了乌拉甘(Uragan)火箭发射的某些集束武器。这些集束武器都是从城市的西南方向发射的。根据人权观察和时报掌握的信息，这个地点发动的至少两次火箭弹袭击，都与从西南部轨迹袭击顿涅茨克的集束炸弹发射的时间相吻合。 Shelling of cities has been common in the conflict, and the cease-fire agreement has not ended the violence. A chemical plant on the outskirts of Donetsk was struck Monday, and the resulting shock wave shattered windows for miles around.
在这场冲突中对城市进行轰炸的做法并不罕见，停火协议也没能结束冲突。顿涅茨克郊区的一座化工厂周一受到袭击，爆炸产生的冲击波震碎了方圆几英里内的玻璃。
On the morning of Oct. 5, Boris V. Melikhov, 37, was chopping wood outside his house in the Gladkovka neighborhood of Donetsk when he heard the loud clap of an explosion from the street.
10月5日上午，在顿涅茨克的格拉德科夫卡(Gladkovka)社区，37岁的鲍里斯·V·梅利霍夫(Boris V. Melikhov)正在家附近砍柴，突然听到街上传来爆炸的巨响。
His first sensation was “a strong push in the back,” and he sprawled onto the grass. More explosions followed, showering Mr. Melikhov with dust and dirt. Unable to stand, he crawled toward a spigot in the garden, bleeding profusely and desperate for water.
他的第一个感觉是“背后被狠狠地推了一下”，他挣扎着爬到了草地上。又听到了几次爆炸声，梅利霍夫身上落满了尘土。他当时已经站不起来，血流如注，急着想喝水，他爬向了园子中的一个水龙头。
“I felt the blood running down my back, down my leg,” he recalled in an interview last week from his bed in a hospital, where his uncle took him after the attack. Doctors there found several identical metal fragments in his leg, chest, shoulder and hand.
“我感到血从我的后背和腿上流下来，”他上周在一家医院的病床上接受采访时说。袭击发生后，他的叔叔把他送到了这家医院。医生在他的腿部、胸腔、肩部和手上发现了多个相同的金属碎片。
At the Red Cross headquarters in Donetsk, Human Rights Watch researchers accompanied by a Times reporter documented 19 distinct impacts of cluster submunitions from the Oct. 2 attack. Judging by impact craters from rockets fired in the same salvo, the researchers said, the strike came from the southwest.
在顿涅茨克的红十字会大楼，人权观察组织的研究人员以及本报的一名记者，记录了10月2日集束子炸弹击中的19个地点。从同一批发射的火箭弹产生的弹坑来看，研究人员说，攻击是从西南方向发出的。
A witness to the Oct. 2 launch in Novomikhailovka told the reporter about the malfunctioning rockets in the fields. Other witnesses interviewed by Human Rights Watch on the evening of Oct. 2 confirmed that rockets had been fired from just south of the village toward Donetsk.
10月2日在新米哈伊洛夫卡(Novomikhailovka)目击火箭弹发射的人士，向记者提供了田野里的故障火箭弹的信息。人权观察组织10月2日晚间采访的其他目击者证实，火箭弹是从这个村子以南的位置向顿涅茨克市发射的。
An advocacy group called the Cluster Munitions Coalition has been pressing Ukraine to join the international convention banning the stockpiling or use of the weapons. (Russia and the United States have not joined it, either.) The group’s director, Sarah Blakemore, wrote to the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry in July after images were published appearing to show the use of cluster munitions against rebel positions in the cities of Slovyansk and Kramatorsk.
一个名为集束弹药联盟(Cluster Munitions Coalition)的倡导组织一直敦促乌克兰加入禁止贮备或使用这种武器的国际公约。（俄罗斯和美国也没有加入这一公约。）该组织主任莎拉·布莱克莫尔(Sarah Blakemore)今年7月曾就此致信乌克兰外交部。在那之前，一些被曝光的图片似乎显示，对斯洛夫扬斯克和克拉马托尔斯克的反对派据点发动的袭击使用了集束弹药。
She said in a telephone interview that she had received no reply. “When I say they neither confirmed or denied, I mean they really just did not do anything,” Ms. Blakemore said.
她在电话采访中说，自己没有收到任何答复。“我说他们既没有证实也没有否认的意思是，他们真的什么都没有做，”布莱克莫尔说。
More than a month after heavy fighting in the village of Ilovaysk, rebel soldiers continued going door to door last week, searching for unexploded shells and bomblets. At Tatyana Lashunova’s house, they found a Smerch (Tornado) rocket lodged in the shed where she keeps her preserves and gardening tools. It was not clear which side had fired the rocket, which can carry conventional warheads or cluster munitions.
在伊洛瓦伊斯克村的激烈交火过去一个多月之后，反对派武装分子仍在挨家挨户地寻找未爆炸的炮弹和子炸弹。在塔季扬娜·拉舒诺娃(Tatyana Lashunova)的住所，反对派武装发现了一枚龙卷风火箭弹，它就嵌在拉舒诺娃存放旧物和园艺工具的棚子上。尚不清楚是哪一方发射了这枚火箭弹。它既可以携带传统弹头，也可以携带集束弹药。