WASHINGTON — Secretary of State John Kerry has accused Russia of behaving in a “19th century fashion” because of its annexation of Crimea.
华盛顿——美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)指责称，俄罗斯对克里米亚的吞并是仍然在以“19世纪的做法”行事。
But Western experts who have followed the success of Russian forces in carrying out President Vladimir V. Putin’s policy in Crimea and eastern Ukraine have come to a different conclusion about Russian military strategy. They see a military disparaged for its decline since the fall of the Soviet Union skillfully employing 21st century tactics that combine cyberwarfare, an energetic information campaign and the use of highly trained special operation troops to seize the initiative from the West.
但对于俄罗斯的军事战略，一些西方专家得出了不同的结论；这些专家密切关注了俄罗斯军队对普京的克里米亚和乌克兰东部政策的成功执行。他们看到，这支自苏联解体之后备受轻视的军队，熟练运用21世纪的战术，把网络战、充满活力的宣传活动，以及训练有素的特种作战部队结合起来，从西方手中夺取了主动权。
“It is a significant shift in how Russian ground forces approach a problem,” said James G. Stavridis, the retired admiral and former NATO commander. “They have played their hand of cards with finesse.”
“俄罗斯地面部队处理问题的方式有了很大的不同，”前北约指挥官、退役海军上将詹姆斯·G·斯塔夫里迪斯(James G. Stavridis)说。“他们这手牌打得很巧妙。”
The abilities the Russian military have displayed are not only important to the high-stakes drama in Ukraine, they also have implications for the security of Moldova, Georgia, Central Asian nations and even the Central Europe nations that are members of NATO.
俄军显示出的实力，不仅在风险重重的乌克兰危机中是一个重要影响因素，而且对摩尔多瓦、格鲁吉亚、中亚国家乃至中欧的北约成员国家来说也是一个安全隐患。
The dexterity with which the Russians have operated in Ukraine is a fry cry from the bludgeoning artillery, airstrikes and surface-to-surface missiles used to retake Grozny, the Chechen capital, from Chechen separatists in 2000. In that conflict, the notion of avoiding collateral damage to civilians and civilian infrastructure appeared to be alien.
俄罗斯人在乌克兰采取的灵活巧妙行动，与2000年从车臣分离主义者手中夺回车臣首府格罗兹尼时动用重装火炮、空袭和地对地导弹的做法相差悬远。在那场冲突中，避免让平民和民用基础设施遭受附带损害的概念，对俄罗斯人来说似乎还很陌生。
Since then Russia has sought to develop more effective ways of projecting power in the “near abroad,” the non-Russian nations that emerged from the collapse of the Soviet Union. It has tried to upgrade its military, giving priority to its special forces, airborne and naval infantry — “rapid reaction” abilities that were “road tested” in Crimea, according to Roger McDermott, a senior fellow at the Jamestown Foundation.
自那以后，俄罗斯尝试开发更有效的方法，对苏联解体后独立的非俄罗斯民族“邻邦”施加影响。它努力升级军事力量，重点放在特种部队上，不管是空降兵，还是海军陆战队——这些兵种拥有的“快速反应”能力得以在克里米亚进行“实战测试”，詹姆斯顿基金会(Jamestown Foundation)高级研究员罗杰·麦克德莫特(Roger McDermott)说。
But the speedy success that Russia had in Crimea does not mean that the overall quality of the Russia’s army, made up mainly of conscripts and no match for the high-tech American military, has been transformed.
但是，俄罗斯在克里米亚获得的快速成功，并不意味着俄罗斯军队的整体素质已经发生了质的转变。俄罗斯军队主要由义务兵构成，并非高科技武装起来的美军的对手。
“The operation reveals very little about the current condition of the Russian armed forces,” said Mr. McDermott. “Its real strength lay in covert action combined with sound intelligence concerning the weakness of the Kiev government and their will to respond militarily.”
“这个行动对于俄军实力的现状揭示甚少，”麦克德莫特说。“它真正的优势在于掌握有关基辅政府弱点与其做出军事反应的意愿的优良情报，并据此开展秘密行动。”
Russia’s operations in Ukraine have been a swift meshing of hard and soft power. The Obama administration, which once held out hope that Mr. Putin would seek an “off ramp” from the pursuit of Crimea, has repeatedly been forced to play catch-up after the Kremlin changed what was happening on the ground.
俄罗斯在乌克兰的行动是硬实力和软实力的迅速契合。奥巴马政府曾经希望普京向克里米亚伸出的大手能“适可而止”，结果在克里姆林宫不断改变当地局面之后，奥巴马政府不得不屡次被迫应变。
“It is much more sophisticated, and it reflects the evolution of the Russian military and of Russian training and thinking about operations and strategy over the years,” said Stephen J. Blank, a former expert on the Russian military at the United States Army War College who is a senior fellow at the American Foreign Policy Council.
“这次要成熟得多，它反映了这些年来俄罗斯军队的演化，以及针对战术行动和战略，俄罗斯在训练和思维上的转变，”史蒂芬·J·布兰克(Stephen J. Blank)说。他曾是美国陆军战争学院(United States Army War College)的俄军专家，目前是美国外交政策委员会(the American Foreign Policy Council)的高级研究员。
For its intervention in Crimea, the Russians used a “snap” military exercise to distract attention and hide their preparations. Then specially trained troops, without identifying patches, moved quickly to secure key installations. Once the operation was underway, the Russian force cut telephone cables, jammed communications and used cyberwarfare to cut off the Ukrainian military forces on the peninsula.
在对克里米亚进行干预时，俄罗斯人利用一个“快速”军事演习来分散大家的注意力，同时为自己的准备工作做掩护。然后再派出没有辨识标志的特训部队，迅速采取行动，占领了关键设施。行动一开始，俄军便使用切断电话线，阻断通信，开展网络战的手段，让驻扎在克里米亚半岛的乌克兰军队失去了军事联系。
“They disconnected the Ukrainian forces in Crimea from their command and control,” Gen. Breedlove said in a recent interview.
“他们切断了驻扎在克里米亚的乌克兰军队的指挥和控制通道，”布里德拉夫(Breedlove)将军在近日的一次采访中说。
As it cemented control, the Kremlin has employed an unrelenting media campaign to reinforce its narrative that a Russian-abetted intervention had been needed to rescue the Russian-speaking population from right-wing extremists and chaos.
在巩固控制权的同时，克里姆林宫还大力展开宣传攻势，鼓吹这样一个说法：要把讲俄语的民众从右翼极端分子手中和混乱局势里解救出来，俄罗斯就得进行干预。
No sooner had the Obama administration demanded that Russian pull back from Crimea than the Kremlin raised the stakes by massing some 40,000 troops near Ukraine’s eastern frontier.
奥巴马政府刚要求俄罗斯从克里米亚撤回，克里姆林宫就在乌克兰的东部边境集结了4万兵力，增加了赌注。
Soon, the Russians were sending small well-equipped teams across the Ukrainian border to seize government buildings that could be turned over to sympathizers and local militias. Police stations and Interior Ministry buildings, which stored arms that could be turned over to local supporters, were targeted, American officials said.
不久，俄罗斯派出装备精良的行动小组，穿过乌克兰边境，占据可以移交给支持者和当地民兵的政府大楼。美国官员说，这些人有针对性地占领警察局和内政部的建筑物，这些地方储存的武器可被移交给当地的支持者。
“Because they have some local support they can keep leveraging a very small cadre of very good fighters and move forward,” said Daniel Goure, an expert on the Russian military at the Lexington Institute, a policy research group.
“因为获得了一些当地人的支持，俄罗斯可以继续利用一小队精兵向前挺近，”政策研究机构“列克星敦研究所”(Lexington Institute)的俄罗斯军事专家丹尼尔·高瑞(Daniel Goure)说。
While the Kremlin retains the option of mounting a large-scale intervention in eastern Ukraine, the immediate purposes of the air and ground forces massed near Ukraine appears to be to deter the Ukrainian military from cracking down in the east and to dissuade the United States from providing substantial military support.
虽然克里姆林宫不是没有可能对乌克兰东部展开大规模干预行动，但之所以在乌克兰边境大举集结空中和地面部队，其直接目的似乎是为了震慑乌克兰军队，防止其对东部地区进行打击，并让美国放弃为乌克兰提供实实在在的军事支持。
The Kremlin has used its military deployment to buttress its diplomatic strategy of insisting on an extensive degree of federalism in Ukraine, one in which the eastern provinces would be largely autonomous and under Moscow’s influence.
克里姆林宫利用军事部署为其外交策略提供支持，俄罗斯的策略是坚持让乌克兰实施高度分散的联邦制；根据这种制度，东部省份将进行高度自治，从而属于莫斯科的势力范围。
And as Russians have flexed their muscles the White House appears to have relaxed its demands. Crimea barely figured in the Thursday talks in Geneva that involved Mr. Kerry and his counterparts from Russia, Ukraine and the European Union.
正当俄罗斯伸展拳脚之时，白宫似乎放松了它的要求。在周四于日内瓦举行的谈话中，克里米亚议题几乎没有出现。参加此次会议的有克里，以及俄罗斯、乌克兰和欧盟(European Union)负责外交事务的官员。
The Obama administration’s urgent goal is to persuade the Kremlin to relinquish control over the government buildings in eastern Ukraine that the American officials insist are held by Russian troops or the pro-Russian separatists under Moscow’s influence. Despite the focus on the combustible situation in eastern Ukraine, the joint statement the diplomats issued in Geneva did not even mention the presence of Russia’s 40,000 troops the border.
奥巴马政府的迫切目标就是说服克里姆林宫放弃对乌克兰东部的政府建筑物的控制；美国官员坚称，这些地方已被俄罗斯军队或受莫斯科影响的亲俄罗斯分离势力占领。虽然人们对乌克兰东部的紧张局势颇为关注，但是外交官在日内瓦发表的联合声明甚至没有提到俄罗斯在边境的4万驻军。
Military experts say that the sort of strategy the Kremlin has employed in Ukraine is likely to work best in areas in which there are pockets of ethnic Russians to provide local support. The strategy is also easier to implement if it is carried out close to Russian territory, where a large and intimidating force can be assembled and the Russian military can easily supply special forces.
军事专家称，克里姆林宫在乌克兰所使用的策略很可能会在有俄罗斯族在当地提供支持的地区取得最好效果。如果在比较靠近俄罗斯领土的地方实施这一策略，其难度也会降低。因为在这里可以集结起具有威慑力的部队，而且俄罗斯军方还能方便地提供特种部队。