MOSCOW — When Vladimir V. Putin returned to the Russian presidency in 2012, one of the first messages he sent to his political elite, many of them heads of banks and large corporations, was that the times had changed: Owning assets outside Russia makes you too vulnerable to moves by foreign governments, he told them. It is time to bring your wealth home.
莫斯科——弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在2012年重新回到俄罗斯总统任上时，他向政治精英们发出的地一个信号是，时代已经变了。这些精英很多都是银行和其他大型企业的负责人。普京对他们说，在俄罗斯以外拥有资产，很容易受到外国政府行动的影响。该把财富带回国内了。
Nearly two years later, those words seem almost prophetic. After a week of escalating tensions between Russia and the United States, it has become clear that the conflict over Ukraine will move to the battlefield of finance. Those same business titans are now contemplating the damage that the crisis could inflict on Russia’s economy.
近两年后，这番话似乎应验了。俄罗斯与美国之间的紧张局势升级一周之后，两国涉及乌克兰的冲突显然会转移到金融战场。目前，还是这些商业巨头，他们正在考虑危机可能会对俄罗斯经济造成的损害。
Twenty years into the project of integrating Russia into Western institutions, they now face the prospect that the process could slow, or even reverse.
在努力带领俄罗斯融入西方体制二十多年后，他们现在面临的前景是，这一过程可能放缓，甚至逆转。
Financial sanctions, which the United States and the European Union have suggested they will impose if the conflict escalates, are intended to test the cohesion of the political system. Mr. Putin demands complete loyalty from those who are allowed to lead Russia’s business empires, and he has made it clear that he will punish those who undermine him. His tough stance in Crimea, meanwhile, has been enthusiastically welcomed by the general public, including, insiders say, many of those in business. No one is breaking ranks.
美国和欧盟表示，一旦冲突升级，它们就会采取经济制裁，这种威胁的目的是考验政治体系内是否存在共识。普京要求那些获准领导俄罗斯商业帝国的人表现出绝对的忠诚，他还明确表示，会惩罚破坏他行动的人。与此同时，他对克里米亚的强硬立场受到了公众的热烈欢迎，圈内人透露，这也包括许多商业界人士。现在，没人敢表达不同的观点。
Still, the prospect of losing access to Western finance is a frightening thought for Russian business leaders, whose voice in foreign policy decision-making is muted compared with the tight circle of Mr. Putin’s former K.G.B. colleagues, for whom economic factors may be secondary.
然而，无法获取西方资金的前景，仍然会让俄罗斯商业领袖惊恐不安。与普京在克格勃(KGB)的前同事组成的小圈子相比，商业界对外交政策决策的表态受到了压制，对前者而言，经济因素可能只是次要的。
Anxiety over possible economic fallout has begun to radiate from business circles, and some wondered whether Mr. Putin had been warned clearly about the magnitude of the possible damage to the economy. One analyst described their mind-set as one of “cognitive dissonance.”
商业界对可能的经济后果已经表现出了焦虑，一些人开始疑惑，究竟有没有人明确地警告普京，可能的经济后果有多么严重。一位分析人士描述道，他们的心态像是“认知失调”。
“I’ve seen 10 people from the Forbes list in the recent few days. They’re pale; they don’t understand,” said Aleksandr Y. Lebedev, a prominent banker who sold most of his Russian assets after public disputes with Mr. Putin. But the oligarchs realize, he said, that their interests carry no weight in this situation, especially if they, like Mr. Lebedev himself, own property outside Russia.
“最近几天，我见了10个《福布斯》(Forbes)榜单上的商人。他们都面色苍白，对时局感到不解，”亚历山大·Y·列别捷夫(Alexander Y. Lebedev)说。列别捷夫是著名银行家，在与普京公开发生争执后，出售了大部分在俄罗斯的资产。但是他也说，财阀们意识到，他们的利益在这种局面中没有什么份量，尤其是如果像列别捷夫那样，在外国拥有财产的话。
“It’s those who are here who will take the burden,” said Mr. Lebedev, speaking from Moscow. “They all keep their mouths shut.”
“后果要由在这里的人担负，”列别捷夫在莫斯科说。“他们都不愿开口。”
Russia may be betting, as many analysts do, that the United States and its allies will not follow through with draconian sanctions, and has made it clear that it would respond harshly and asymmetrically. On Friday, Gazprom hinted that it might cut off gas exports to Ukraine over unpaid bills, as it did in 2009, and an unnamed Defense Ministry official told Russian news agencies that it would consider stopping international inspections of its nuclear weapons.
俄罗斯或许也像许多分析人士一样，认定了美国及其盟友不会真正实施严苛的制裁措施。俄罗斯也明确表示，会加倍严厉反击。周五，俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)称，该公司可能会像2009年那样，因为拖欠账单而切断对乌克兰的天然气出口，而一位未具名的国防部官员也对俄罗斯新闻媒体表示，将会考虑停止国际社会对其核武器的检查。
Russia’s tycoons have been silent since the crisis began, apart from approving messages on social media. Many inside Russia’s large corporations are no doubt supportive of Mr. Putin’s moves in Crimea, which are widely seen here as correcting a historical error made by the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev, when he transferred Crimea to the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. Mr. Putin’s approval ratings are at their highest point since he returned to the presidency in 2012. If corporate leaders are complaining, they are doing it quietly.
自从危机开始以来，除了在社交网络上发表赞许的消息之外，俄罗斯大亨一直保持着沉默。该国国内许多大型企业毫无疑问支持普京在克里米亚的举动，在这里很多人都认为，这是在纠正前苏联领导人尼基塔·S·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita S. Khrushchev)犯下的历史错误。当年是赫鲁晓夫将克里米亚划归乌克兰苏维埃社会主义共和国的。自2012年重掌总统职位以来，普京的支持率现在处于最高水平。即使企业高管有抱怨，他们也不敢公开表达。
“Of course they’re upset, but it doesn’t mean they are prepared to challenge Russia’s foreign policy,” said Mikhail E. Dmitriyev, an economist whose research group, the Center for Strategic Research, was originally founded to shape Mr. Putin’s economic platform. “This is a new reality. Even if somebody has reservations with regard to the policy’s effectiveness, I strongly doubt they would express it. This is a policy which, for the moment, is backed by the vast majority of the public. It’s not an exaggeration.”
俄罗斯战略研究中心(Centre for Strategic Research)的经济学家米哈伊尔·E·德米特里耶夫(Mikhail E. Dmitriyev)说，“他们当然很沮丧，但这也并不意味着他们愿意挑战俄罗斯的外交政策。”建立这个研究中心的最初目的是去影响普京的经济政策。“这是一个新现实。即使有人对政策的效果有保留意见，我也强烈怀疑他们是否会表达出来。目前来看，这个政策受到了绝大多数公众的支持，我并没有夸张。”
In private conversations, though, several people described high anxiety within corporations, especially about the prospect of any sanctions’ affecting banks. Large Russian corporations have significantly increased foreign borrowing in recent years, and 10 were negotiating loans when the crisis boiled over, said Ben Aris, the editor and publisher of Business New Europe. Financial sanctions could set off a chain reaction of blocked transactions, frozen accounts and bank closings. “Those oligarchs who are already having trouble would be completely cut off,” he said.
不过在私下交流时，一些人形容企业内部有很强的焦虑感，尤其是针对可能会影响银行的任何制裁措施。《商业新欧洲》(Business New Europe)主编兼出版人本·阿里斯(Ben Aris)表示，俄罗斯大型企业的外债负担近几年显著增加，而且在危机爆发时，有10家企业正在进行贷款谈判。经济制裁将会引发一系列链式反应，包括交易中断、账户冻结、银行关停。他说，“那些已经遇到麻烦的寡头，将会陷入绝境。”
Sberbank, the state retail bank, and the state investment bank VTB have actively expanded into Eastern Europe, including Ukraine, and own assets in Western Europe and the United States. Rosneft, the state oil company, has a deal with Exxon Mobil to drill in the Russian Arctic, the flagship project of Igor I. Sechin, a deputy prime minister and one of Mr. Putin’s closest aides.
俄罗斯国有的零售银行俄罗斯联邦储蓄银行(Sberbank)、国有的投资银行VTB曾积极地向东欧扩张，包括乌克兰，在西欧和美国也都拥有资产。国有的俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)与埃克森美孚(Exxon Mobil)之间有在俄罗斯管辖的北冰洋海域内开采石油的协定，这是伊格尔·I·谢钦(Igor I. Sechin)的主推项目。谢钦曾任俄罗斯副总理，是普京最亲密的盟友之一。
Some pointed to a more long-term danger that the conflict over Ukraine, if it escalated, could culminate in a turn toward isolation for the Russian economy.
一些人指出了一种更加长期的风险，如果乌克兰引发的冲突进一步升级，最终可能会转向俄罗斯经济陷入孤立的结局。