On Nov. 21, summoned by a Facebook post by a journalist named Mustafa Nayem, more than 1,500 Ukrainians showed up in Independence Square in Kiev to protest their government’s decision to “pause” preparations for signing an association agreement with the European Union. The next day, more crowds gathered, in Kiev and other cities. Soon, the protesters numbered over 100,000.
11月21日，在一个名叫穆斯塔法·纳耶姆(Mustafa Nayem)的记者Facebook号召下，1500多名乌克兰人来到基辅的独立广场，抗议政府“暂停”筹备同欧盟签署联合协议的决定。第二天，更多人群聚集在基辅和其他一些城市。很快，抗议者超过了10万人。
This month is the ninth anniversary of the “Orange Revolution,” which forced the authorities to annul the results of a contested presidential runoff and hold a revote. But in a country that has been largely apathetic for nearly a decade, no one could have expected such a strong reaction to a decision that would not even guarantee Ukraine’s full membership in the European Union — not even in the future.
本月是“橙色革命”的九周年。当年的革命迫使当局取消了一场颇受争议的总统决选的结果，并进行重新投票。但近10年来，乌克兰人基本上对政治漠不关心，在这样一个国家里，没人预料到这一决定会引发如此强烈的反应。而且这个决定甚至无法保证乌克兰会成为欧盟的成员国——将来都未必。
The government’s arguments against the agreement seemed reasonable enough: Russia was pressuring Ukraine to join a Russian-led customs union, and the country could not risk losing access to the Russian market, which would surely happen if it signed a free-trade deal with the European Union.
政府反对签署该协议的理由似乎很合理：俄罗斯正在向乌克兰施压，要求其加入一个以俄罗斯为首的关税同盟，而乌克兰则不敢冒失去俄罗斯市场这个风险。如果乌克兰同欧盟签署自由贸易协议，失去俄罗斯市场这一幕必然会出现。
Yet Ukrainians, despite poverty and cynicism, care. President Viktor Yanukovich had raised hopes for integration, and Parliament had passed measures that would move Ukraine toward compliance with the terms necessary to sign an association agreement and form a free trade zone with the European Union. Polls showed that a strong majority of Ukrainians supported integration with Europe, even in the East, the region most oriented toward Russia.
然而，乌克兰人尽管很穷也很犬儒主义，但他们却在意这个协议。总统维克多·亚努科维奇(Viktor Yanukovich)曾让人们看到了乌克兰融入欧盟的希望。若要加入欧盟并与之组成自由贸易区，乌克兰需要做出改变以满足一些必要条件，为此议会已经通过了多项议案。民意调查显示，绝大多数乌克兰人，甚至在最倾向于俄罗斯的东部，都支持入欧。
The dashing of those hopes — formalized at the end of a two-day summit meeting in Vilnius, Lithuania, on Friday — comes as a bitter disappointment.
周五，为期两天的立陶宛维尔纽斯峰会闭幕，正式宣告了这些希望的破灭，令人们大为沮丧。
The protesters have at times called for resignations, impeachments and new elections. But what’s most striking is their association of Europe with a set of values that results in absence of corruption, a strong social safety net, an inclusive health-care system, fair wages, a stable currency and a responsible government that delivers reliable services and treats citizens with respect. For them, these were even more valuable than the tangible benefits of joining the E.U., like the right to work in other European countries and the prospect of big European investments in Ukraine.
抗议者中有的呼吁总统辞职、弹劾总统和重新进行选举。但最令人惊讶的是他们在一系列价值观上对欧洲的认同，这些价值观会消除腐败，建立强有力的社会安全保障机制、覆盖全民的医保体系、公平的薪酬、稳定的货币，以及一个能提供可靠服务且尊重公民的、负责任的政府。对他们而言，这些甚至比加入欧盟带来的切实利益——比如在其他欧洲国家工作的权利和欧洲国家在乌克兰进行大手笔投资的可能性——更有价值。
The 20- to 40-year-olds protesting today are the first generation to be fully free of the grip of the Cold War’s totalitarian heritage. They were disappointed by the failure of the last president, Viktor Yushchenko, whom the Orange Revolution brought to power, to fight corruption, reform the government, remove barriers to entrepreneurship and bring the country closer to Europe.
今天进行抗议的这些20岁至40岁不等的人们是第一代完全摆脱了冷战集权主义影响的人。他们对凭借“橙色革命”上台的前总统维克托·A·尤先科 (Viktor A. Yushchenko)未能打击腐败、改革政府、消除创业障碍，并拉近乌克兰同欧洲的关系感到失望。
This generation watches little TV, gets its news and entertainment online, and, until now, has mostly avoided politics. The organizers of the recent protests took advantage of this. Amateur broadcasting on Ustream and YouTube quickly spread news of the events. Independent, crowd-funded radio and television networks used the same low-budget streaming technology to deliver live content from an attic apartment in Kiev. Every movement of the unpopular Berkut (the Ukrainian special forces) was closely followed on Facebook and Twitter; supporters were mobilized to defend tents erected by protesters.
这一代人不怎么看电视，他们在网上获取新闻和娱乐。而且他们大多回避政治，直到最近才改变这一点。最近这些抗议活动的组织者利用了这一点。Ustream和YouTube上的业余制作内容很快便把相关行动的新闻传播了出去。采用众筹模式的独立广播和电视网络也用了同样的低成本流媒体技术，在基辅的一个阁楼公寓里进行着直播。在Facebook和Twitter上，人们密切关注着不得人心的别尔库特部队(Berkut)的一举一动；支持者也行动起来，挺身保护抗议者搭建的帐篷。
The protesters also insisted that the political parties have no overt role — from uniforms to banners to speeches — in the demonstrations. They didn’t want to play into the hands of the government, which would have claimed that the protests were merely a political attempt to undermine it.
抗议者还坚持要求在示威活动中不能有明显的政党行为——无论是制服、标语还是演说。他们不希望活动被政府抓住把柄，后者会声称这些抗议不过是一次试图颠覆政府的政治行动。
Still, it remains to be seen whether the pro-European movement will survive these efforts. Representatives of various rightist parties — including Svoboda, whose nationalist, xenophobic, anti-intellectual and homophobic messages have frustrated European-minded Ukrainians in the past — were embedded in the protests early on.
然而即便有这些努力，支持欧洲的运动能否坚持下来依然是个疑问。多个右翼政党的代表——其中就包括全乌克兰自由联盟(Svoboda)，他的民族主义、排外、反智和恐同观念曾经令心系欧洲的乌克兰人十分头疼——已经早早地加入到了抗议人群中。
The protesters express their Europeanness frequently, with excitement, and often touchingly: They emphasize politeness, friendliness and cleanliness. Why? Because this is “the European way.” Everything else is perceived as backward, inconsiderate and annoying — in short, it’s “sovok,” or the dustbin, a euphemism for the disappointing post-Soviet state.
抗议者带着激动的神情反复表达他们作为欧洲人的一面，时常令人动容：他们强调礼貌、友好和整洁。为什么？因为这是“欧洲风格”。其他的一切都是落后的、粗鲁的、令人生厌的——简单说就是“苏联式的”，或称垃圾桶，这是在委婉表达对这个后苏联国家的失望之情。
More conservative Ukrainians have a different view. They’ve lumped together tolerance, nondiscrimination and openness into the term “tolerasty,” a neologism that suggests that those who are oriented toward the West are weak, decadent and dangerous. Sexuality is a hot-button issue: To join the Union, Ukraine would have to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
偏保守派的乌克兰人有不同看法。他们把宽容、一视同仁和开放合到一起，统称为“宽容病”(tolerasty)，这个新词的意思是，那些向往西方的人是软弱、堕落和危险的。性是一个敏感问题：要想加入欧盟，乌克兰必须废除针对性取向的歧视政策。
According to this view, the promotion of so-called European values would lead to the annihilation of the Ukrainian family. This is a powerful discourse. For decades, religion, speech, language and culture were suppressed in Ukraine. The horror of tragedies like the famine of 1932-33 were never confronted.
根据这种观点，宣扬所谓的欧洲价值观是会令乌克兰家庭走向毁灭的。这是一种极其强大的论述。几十年来，宗教、言论、语言和文化在乌克兰遭到压制。像1932–33年大饥荒这样的悲剧从未得到正视。
The activists are very much aware of the power of these scare tactics. With their apolitical messages, they are trying to alleviate the fears of a post-Soviet society that has only begun to grapple with the traumas of its past.
活动人士深知这种恐吓战术的厉害。在其非政治性的表述中，他们试图缓解一个后苏联社会的恐惧情绪，毕竟这个社会才刚刚开始面对过去留下的创伤。
They have been inspired by prominent intellectuals, like the political philosopher and essayist Mykhailo Minakov, who has called on the protesters to heed the lessons from the Orange Revolution: peaceful demonstrations, generational and cultural solidarity, ideological neutrality and reintegration around European ideals as a counterbalance to nationalist and separatist impulses.
他们得到了一些杰出的知识分子的启发，比如政治哲学家、散文家米哈伊罗·米纳科夫(Mykhailo Minakov)，他呼吁抗议者吸取橙色革命的教训：和平示威、世代与文化上的团结，意识形态中立，要围绕着欧洲理念进行重新的整合，和民族主义、分离主义势力相抗衡。
Even if they don’t succeed in pushing Ukraine’s leaders toward Europe, the activists are continuing the work of building a nonviolent, nonideological movement of justice and solidarity.
即便没能成功地将乌克兰领导人推向欧洲，活动人士也可以继续发展一场关乎公正和团结的非暴力、非意识形态运动。
The strength of the fragile civil society that these activists are helping to build will be most tested not in the streets, but back home, where liberal values will be challenged every day, after the current battle for them is won, or lost.
这些活动人士正在帮助建造起一个公民社会，虽然它还相当孱弱，其稳固与否，不全然是在街头验证的，更多是在家中。无论结果如何，在这场为自由的价值观而进行的战斗之后，这些价值观每天都会遭受挑战。