MOSCOW — President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine said early Tuesday that he had ordered a resumption of military efforts to crush a pro-Russian separatist rebellion in eastern Ukraine, formally ending a cease-fire after 10 days because, he said, rebels had refused to put down their weapons and had persisted in attacking government troops.
莫斯科——乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O.Poroshenko)周二凌晨表示，他已经命令军队继续对乌克兰东部的亲俄分离反叛活动进行打击，正式终结了仅仅维持了10天的停火。他说，这是因为反叛者拒绝放下武器，并且还在继续攻击政府军队。
Mr. Poroshenko’s order came after he and the leaders of Russia, Germany and France held a second four-way conference call aimed at promoting the peace process.
此前，波罗申科曾与俄罗斯、德国、法国领导人召开第二次旨在推动和平进程的四方会谈。
European leaders on Friday had issued an ultimatum to Russia, saying that they were prepared to impose additional economic sanctions if concrete steps were not taken by Monday toward ending the violence. Fighting. however, had continued unabated with additional casualties, and there was little progress toward the goals set by the Europeans.
周五，欧洲领导人向俄罗斯发布了最后通牒，说如果周一之前，俄罗斯还不采取具体行动来结束暴力冲突，欧洲就会对俄罗斯实施额外的经济制裁。然而，战斗仍丝毫没有缓和，而且还造成了更多的人员伤亡，也并未朝欧洲设定的目标取得任何毫无进展。
Although the three other leaders had called for continuing the cease-fire, which Mr. Poroshenko imposed unilaterally on June 20 and expired at 10 p.m. Monday, in a statement shortly before 1 a.m. he said that he had come to the conclusion that the rebel leaders had no control over the fighters and that government troops could not just defend themselves in the face of continuing attacks.
尽管其他三名领导人呼吁继续停火，但波罗申科在凌晨1点前不久表示，他已经认识到反叛者的领导人根本无法控制他们的武装人员，而且政府军在不断受到袭击的情况下，不能只采取防御手段。停火是波罗申科在6月20日单方面开始实施的，已于周一晚上10点到期。
“We will attack and liberate our land,” Mr. Poroshenko said in a statement to the nation. “Termination of the cease-fire is our response to terrorists, insurgents, marauders, everyone who tortures civilians, paralyzes the economy of the region, disrupts payments of salaries, pensions, scholarships, blasts the railroad, destroys the water pipes and deprives people of normal peaceful life.”
“我们要发动攻击，解放我们的土地，”波罗申科在全国声明中说。“结束停火是我们对恐怖分子、叛乱分子、掠夺者，以及所有折磨平民，损害地区经济，扰乱薪水、养老金、奖学金的发放，轰炸铁路，毁坏水管，让民众无法过正常的平静生活的人所做的回应。”
“Peace was, is and will be my goal,” he said. “What is changing are the tools to achieve it.”
“过去、现在和将来，和平一直是我的目标，”他说。“改变的只是实现这个目标的工具。”
It was unclear whether Mr. Poroshenko’s order to the military to resume its campaign against the rebels would change much.
尚不清楚波罗申科让军队继续打击反叛者的命令能产生多大作用。
Since the separatist insurrection began about three months ago, government forces have been unable to contain the rebellion, and there have been hundreds of casualties on each side.
自分离派的反叛活动大约三个月前开始以来，政府军就一直无法遏制叛乱，双方都有数百人丧生。
The Ukrainian government and its allies in the West, including the United States, have accused Russia of supplying tanks, artillery and other weapons to the rebels and of allowing Russian citizens to cross the border to join the rebel militias.
乌克兰政府和美国等西方盟友对俄罗斯表示了谴责，称俄罗斯在向反对派提供坦克、火炮和其他武器，并允许俄罗斯公民越境加入反叛武装。
There was no immediate reaction from the Kremlin to Mr. Poroshenko’s announcement, but President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has blamed the Ukrainian government for the continuing violence in the east.
克里姆林宫没有立即对波罗申科的声明作出回应，但俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)对乌克兰政府提出了指责，称政府军在乌克兰东部的暴力行动仍在继续。
In nascent peace talks last week led by the former Ukrainian president Leonid M. Kuchma, rebel leaders had demanded a complete withdrawal of Ukrainian military forces as a precondition to formal peace negotiations.
在乌克兰前总统列昂尼德·库奇玛(Leonid Kuchma)上周领导的初步和谈中，反对派领导人要求，正式和平谈判的前提是乌克兰军队完全撤离。
Mr. Poroshenko had initially declared the cease-fire unilaterally as part of a broader 15-point peace plan on June 20, saying the truce would last a week.
波罗申科最初在6月20日单方面宣布停火时，是一项更广泛和平方案中的一部分，该方案有15点内容。他当时表示停火将持续一周。
Although there was never any real halt in hostilities, Mr. Poroshenko formally extended the cease-fire on Friday, after the Europeans issued their ultimatum, until Monday night.
尽管对抗从未真正停止，但周五，在欧洲发出最后通牒后，波罗申科正式将停火延长至周一晚间。
In his statement, Mr. Poroshenko insisted that the Ukrainian government had done its utmost to bring peace to the eastern region, known as the Donbass.
波罗申科在声明中坚称，为了给东部的顿巴斯带去和平，乌克兰政府已经尽了最大努力。
“For 10 days we have demonstrated to the Donbass, to Ukraine, and to the world our commitment to peacefully settle the conflict triggered externally,” he said.
“10天来，我们向顿巴斯、乌克兰以及全世界证明了，我们致力于和平解决外部势力挑起的冲突，”他说。
He added that that “a unique opportunity” for peace had been lost “because of the criminal actions of the militants.”
他接着说，“因为武装分子的犯罪行为”，我们失去了实现和平的“唯一机会”。
The failure of the cease-fire had been noted even as representatives of various governments scrambled to preserve it. At a news briefing in Washington on Monday, Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, the top NATO commander, said that Russia was continuing to arm Ukrainian separatists despite the truce, and that it was including antiaircraft weapons among the military equipment being provided to them.
即便在竭力争取继续停火时，各国政府的代表也提到了停火的失败。周一，北约(NATO)最高指挥官菲利普·M·布里德洛夫(Philip M. Breedlove)上将在华盛顿的一场新闻发布会上表示，尽管有停火协议，但俄罗斯依然在武装乌克兰的分离派，而且还在提供给分离派的军事装备中增加了防空武器。
A number of Ukrainian planes have been shot down by separatists in recent weeks, including a military transport plane that was brought down last month, killing 49. Last week, a military helicopter was shot down, killing nine.
最近几周，分离派已击落多架乌克兰飞机，包括上月被击落的一架军用运输机。那架运输机被击落时，造成49人死亡。上周，一架军用直升飞机被击落，9人丧生。
General Breedlove said there was a “very good likelihood” that Russian-supplied antiaircraft weapons had been used to shoot down the aircraft, though he added “we haven’t tied the strings directly together yet.”
布里德洛夫表示，分离派击落飞机时用的“极有可能”是俄罗斯提供的防空武器，不过他接着说，“我们还没有证据表明两件事情直接相关。”
Among those killed in the continuing violence was a veteran Russian television cameraman, Anatoly Klyan, who had worked for the state-controlled Channel One for 40 years.
阿纳托利·克利扬(Anatoly Klyan)是在持续的暴力冲突中遇难的人之一。他在由政府控制的第一频道(Channel One)工作了40年。
According to Channel One, Mr. Klyan, 68, and his crew were traveling on a small bus with the mothers of conscripted soldiers and other journalists to a Ukrainian military base north of the regional capital of Donetsk, when the bus came under small-arms fire by Ukrainian troops.
第一频道表示，68岁的克利扬和他的团队，在与入伍士兵的母亲，及其他一些记者共同乘坐小巴，前往顿涅茨克州首府北部的一处乌克兰军事基地时，巴士遭到了乌克兰军队的轻武器攻击。
Mr. Klyan was shot in the stomach but continued to film. Video images of the episode showed him on the bus after being shot, and he could be heard telling colleagues that he was no longer strong enough to hold his camera.
克利扬腹部中枪，但却继续拍摄。记录该事件的视频画面中有他中枪后在车上的样子，人们还能听到他告诉同事，自己举不动摄影机了。
Channel One said the trip had been organized by rebel fighters.
第一频道称，这次行程是反叛武装组织的。