DONETSK, Ukraine — Separatists in two provinces of eastern Ukraine conducted chaotic and sometimes violent plebiscites on Sunday that offered voters just one question about self-rule, while raising many more about where events in the region were headed.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——周日，乌克兰东部两个州的分裂分子举行了混乱且穿插着暴力活动的投票，选票上只对选民提出了一个有关自治的问题，却引发了有关该地区局势未来走向的更多疑问。
Large crowds turned out in some cities to cast votes meant to legitimize the separatists’ declarations of independent “people’s republics” in the two provinces. But the voting left unclear whether the two provinces, Donetsk and Luhansk, will now follow the Crimean Peninsula in seeking to be annexed by Russia.
在一些城市，大批民众参与了投票，这些选票旨在使分裂分子在这两个州宣布成立独立的“人民共和国”的声明合法化。但顿涅茨克州和卢甘斯克州是否会效仿克里米亚半岛，寻求并入俄罗斯，目前仍不清楚。
Nearly everyone who cast a ballot appeared to be voting in favor of greater autonomy from the Ukrainian central government in Kiev. Opponents appeared to be staying away from the polls, as many had said they would. The ballot papers that could be seen in transparent ballot boxes in two cities, Donetsk and Slovyansk, were almost all marked yes.
几乎所有投票者似乎都支持相对于乌克兰中央政府实行更大的自治。许多反对派人士说过不会去投票，看起来的确如此。在顿涅茨克和斯洛维扬斯克两座城市，在透明的投票箱里可以看见的选票几乎都是赞成票。
But the voting took place in such a raw state of lawlessness that no one other than the organizers and perhaps their Russian patrons seemed likely to accept the results as a democratic expression of the voters’ will.
但投票发生在如此乱糟糟的局面之中，以至于除了组织者或许还有他们的俄罗斯后台之外，似乎没有人会认为投票结果是投票者意志的民主表达。
The United States, many European nations and the government in Kiev all condemned the referendums, saying they were illegal and likely to worsen the violence in eastern Ukraine between pro-Russian groups and the central government. Even President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who has generally supported the separatists, publicly distanced himself from the referendums last week, saying they should be delayed. The separatists still went ahead.
美国、许多欧洲国家，以及乌克兰政府都谴责了公投行为，称这种行为是非法的，可能会激化乌克兰东部亲俄组织和中央政府之间的暴力冲突。即使是基本上支持分裂分子的俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)上周也公开表示不支持公投，呼吁推迟投票。但分裂分子仍然一意孤行。
In one town, Ukrainian security forces shot a man to death outside a polling station as an angry crowd, ignoring warning shots, rushed toward a building that the soldiers controlled. In some other cities, voters took ballots that were run off on photocopiers and stuffed them into cardboard boxes that the organizers spirited off quickly, lest they be seized by pro-government forces.
在一个城镇的投票站外，乌克兰安全部队射杀了一名男子，当时，一大批愤怒的群众不顾警示性的枪声，冲进了一幢由乌克兰士兵控制的大楼。在另外一些城市，投票者拿起复印机里吐出的选票，把选票塞进纸板箱里，组织者随后迅速地带走了纸板箱，以防选票被亲政府的势力夺走。
By contrast, the atmosphere at polling places in Donetsk city, the capital of the province, was carnival-like, with balloons decorating the entrances and loudspeakers playing Soviet-era songs. Families with children in tow stood in long lines waiting to vote.
相比之下，在该州首府顿涅茨克，投票地点的气氛如同狂欢节，入口处装饰着气球，喇叭里播放着苏联时期的歌曲。一些人带着孩子，全家老少一起排长队等待投票。
Many people who cast ballots said they hoped the election would solidify the self-styled independent republics in Donetsk and Luhansk enough to tamp down the violence in the region. Roman Agrisov, a 40-year-old steelworker, said he wanted his vote to signal to the central government to pull its troops out of eastern Ukraine. “I am voting because I don’t want war,” he said.
许多参与投票的人说，他们希望这次投票能够巩固顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克自称的独立共和国的地位，从而遏制该地区的暴力冲突。现年40岁的钢铁工人罗曼·阿格里索夫(Roman Agrisov)说，他希望通过自己的选票向中央政府传递信息，使其把军队撤出乌克兰东部。他说，“我投票是因为我不希望发生战争。”
But the voting could just as easily escalate the low-level fighting into a civil war between Russian-backed breakaway regions and Kiev.
但投票活动可能同样会令目前低层次的冲突，升级为俄罗斯支持的寻求独立的地区和基辅之间的内战。
The interim central government and many leaders in the West have said that the separatists in eastern Ukraine were proxies for the Russian intelligence services, and were trying to destabilize the country after mass protests drove Ukraine’s former pro-Russian leader from power. Yulia V. Tymoshenko, a Ukrainian presidential candidate, said that Russian meddling in the east was splintering Ukraine into a “Yugoslavia scenario.”
乌克兰临时政府和西方国家的许多领导人说，乌克兰东部的分裂分子是俄罗斯情报机构的代理人，试图在大规模抗议活动导致亲俄的前乌克兰领导人被赶下台之后，使该国陷入动荡。乌克兰总统候选人尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)说，俄罗斯介入乌克兰东部的行为，让乌克兰四分五裂，如同“南斯拉夫当时的局面”。
Separatist groups in eastern Ukraine appeared unfazed by the international condemnation of the voting, which many outsiders said could not possibly be free and fair, given the turmoil enveloping the region.
国际上对公投的谴责似乎没有影响到乌克兰东部的分裂组织，许多外部人士说，考虑到笼罩该地区的动荡局势，这次投票不可能是自由公正的。
The provinces of Donetsk and Luhansk are predominantly Russian-speaking rather than Ukrainian-speaking, and in past elections they have tended to back pro-Russian politicians. But that does not mean that most people there want to secede from Ukraine. A poll by the Pew Research Center released this month indicated that 70 percent of respondents in eastern Ukraine favored keeping the country united, while only 18 percent favored secession; the remainder were undecided.
顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克州多数人讲俄语，而非乌克兰语。在以往的选举中，两州往往都支持亲俄的政治人物。但这并不意味着大多数人想要脱离乌克兰。皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)本月公布的调查结果显示，乌克兰东部地区70%的受访者支持让国家保持统一，只有18%的受访者支持独立；其余的受访者没有明确答案。
The referendums demonstrated that there was substantial popular support for the pro-Russian separatists in some areas. But it offered no reliable gauge of the breadth of that support. It was not clear whether long voting lines had formed because few polling places were open, or because turnout was running high.
公投显示，亲俄分裂分子在一些地区赢得了广泛的支持。但它并不能准确衡量支持者的人数。目前还不清楚投票者排起长队是因为开放的投票站少，还是因为投票率高。
In the afternoon, a Ukrainian national guard unit known as the Dnepr Brigade appeared and broke up the voting. Organizers grabbed the boxes of cast ballots and ran, presumably intending to count them later, and the soldiers took up positions in the City Hall building where a secessionist polling station had been operating on the steps.
下午，乌克兰的国家警卫队第聂伯旅(Dnepr Brigade)出现在了投票站，破坏了投票过程。组织者抓起投票箱逃走，这可能是为了晚些时候计票。士兵们占领了市政厅大楼的多个位置，此前，分裂势力的投票站一直在大楼的台阶上运作。
With the cardboard and cloth remains of a polling stand littering the ground, the armed men demonstratively cocked their rifles, sometimes leveling them. When a man from the crowd approached the building to block another group of soldiers from entering, he was shot and killed.
投票站使用的纸板和布条散落在地面上，武装男子将枪口朝上以示震慑，时而也会平举。一名男子从人群中走向市政厅大楼，试图阻止另一群士兵进入，结果被枪击身亡。
Shots were fired in another confrontation in the Luhansk region, the Interfax news agency reported. Ukrainian soldiers there fired into a crowd that was blocking national guard armored vehicles near the village of Baranikovka, the agency said; two people were wounded.
据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，在卢甘斯克地区的另一场对质中也有人开了枪。报道称，在巴拉尼科夫卡村附近，乌克兰士兵向阻挡国家警卫队装甲车辆的人群射击；两人受伤。
In Dobropole, a pro-Ukrainian group staged a counter-referendum, calling for the town to secede from Donetsk Province and join a neighboring province to the west that would remain part of Ukraine. It set up a polling station across a dusty and potholed street from the secessionists, with knots of men guarding each side. The town seemed primed for violence.
在多布罗坡，一个亲乌克兰的组织举行了一次反公投，呼吁这个城镇脱离顿涅茨克州，加入西边的邻州，从而留在乌克兰。该组织设立的投票站与分裂分子隔着一条灰尘飞扬、坑坑洼洼的马路，一队队男子守卫在路两旁。这个城镇似乎为暴力冲突做好了准备。
After weeks of unrest in the east, pro-Russian groups occupy administrative buildings in about a dozen towns, control some highways and have full control over one midsize city, Slovyansk. The voting there was orderly on Sunday, with crowds at some polling places in the morning. But the turnout seemed to thin by early afternoon, and with only a few hours of balloting left, the lists of those who had voted suggested that the turnout in the city was relatively light, perhaps 30 percent of residents or less.
在东部的动荡持续了数周之后，一些亲俄的组织占领了大约六个城镇的政府大楼，控制了一些公路，对中型城市斯洛维扬斯克实施了全盘控制。周日，那里的投票井然有序，上午，有大批民众来到了出现在了一些投票地点。但截至午后，投票率似乎还很低，距投票结束还剩几个小时的时候，投票者名单显示，这个城市的投票率相对较低，或许只有30%，甚至更低。
Government security forces occupy positions around the city, and there was an outbreak of fighting on the outskirts overnight before the voting, beginning with a series of explosions, followed by gunfire over the course of about an hour. It was not clear what had been attacked.
政府的安全部队占领了该市的多个地点，投票前的夜里，郊区爆发了冲突，首先是一连串的爆炸，随后发生交火，整个过程持续了大约一小时。目前还不清楚哪里遭受了袭击。
Late Sunday, separatist leaders in Donetsk reported that the ballot on “self-rule” had gone in their favor, with almost 90 percent of the vote, and that 75 percent of the region’s eligible voters had gone to the polls. For the province as a whole, another organizer was quoted as saying, “on average, from every 1,000 ballots, only one is against.”
周日夜里，顿涅茨克的分裂分子领导人称，有关“自治”的投票结果对他们有利，几乎90%的投票是赞成票，此外，该地区75%的符合资格的选民参与了投票。另一名组织者说，整个州来说，“平均每1000张选票中，只有一张反对票。”
A State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said the United States would not recognize the results of the referendums, whatever they were. She said they were “illegal under Ukrainian law, and are an attempt to create further division and disorder.”
美国国务院发言人珍·帕莎其(Jen Psaki)说，无论投票的结果如何，美国都不会予以承认。她说，投票“违反了乌克兰法律，是一次旨在进一步制造分裂和混乱的企图”。