MOSCOW — A large rally in Kiev, Ukraine, that was called in part to protest a new set of laws cracking down on public protests turned violent on Sunday when men in balaclavas attacked the police with sticks and threw firecrackers and cobblestones at them.
莫斯科——周日，戴着巴拉克拉法帽的男子开始用棍棒袭击警察，并向他们投掷鞭炮和卵石，乌克兰基辅的一场大规模集会随即演变成了暴力事件。该集会的目的之一是抗议一系列打压公开抗议活动的新法律。
The police responded with tear gas. By early evening, at least one police van was burning on a central street in the city, and witnesses said people had been injured, though it was unclear how severely.
警方以催泪瓦斯进行反击。到傍晚，至少一辆警车在该市的一条中央大街上燃烧起来。目击者称有人受伤，但不清楚伤者伤势如何。
The violence appeared to be the worst in at least a month for the continuing protest movement in Ukraine, and it signified a deepening of the political crisis in the country, the most populous former Soviet state beside Russia.
对乌克兰仍在继续的抗议运动而言，此次暴力事件似乎达到了至少一个月以来最严重的程度。事件表明，该国政治危机正在不断深化。乌克兰是除俄罗斯之外人口最多的前苏联国家。
Protests began in November, after the government of President Viktor F. Yanukovich declined to sign a sweeping free-trade agreement with the European Union. He later negotiated a financial aid package from Russia.
抗议活动始于11月，起因是维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)总统领导的政府拒绝与欧盟签署一项广泛的自由贸易协议。此后，亚努科维奇就俄罗斯给出的一个财政援助一揽子计划进行了谈判。
The fighting broke out on a side street leading to the Verkhovnaya Rada, or Parliament, and near Independence Square, which has been the center of the protests.
冲突爆发在通往议会的一条小街上，那里离抗议活动的中心独立广场(Independence Square)不远。
In speeches on the square, opposition leaders denounced the participants in the melee as provocateurs and said they did not represent the aspirations of the peaceful protesters. But the leaders were also powerless to stop the fighting.
反对派领袖在独立广场发表演讲，谴责参与混战的人是破坏分子，称他们不能代表和平抗议者的愿望。但那些领袖也无力阻止打斗。
By midnight, the streets were a scene of utter mayhem. Those fighting the police struck them with lengths of pipes and sticks, and hurled cobblestones the size of soccer balls into their midst. They sent fireworks whistling and sparking into their ranks, and threw what appeared to be firebombs, blossoming into flames when they struck. The police stumbled backward, patting at their clothes as fire burned their metal shields.
到了午夜，这些街道呈现出一片混乱的景象。袭警者用长短不一的管子和棍棒攻击警察，并朝他们投掷足球大小的石头。他们还朝警察扔呼啸着、火花四溅的鞭炮，以及一些类似燃烧弹的东西，碰到东西就会起火。火烧着金属盾牌时，警察一边踉跄着后退，一般拍打自己的衣服。
The riot police sprayed from a water cannon, in spite of the freezing temperatures. Gazeta.ru, a Russian news portal, reported that 70 police officers were wounded and 40 hospitalized.
尽管气温非常低，防暴警察依然在用水炮喷水。俄罗斯新闻网站Gazeta.ru报道称，已有70名警察受伤，40名警察入院接受治疗。
The rally against the new laws enacted on Thursday drew tens of thousands of people, a smaller crowd than at the peak of the protest movement in December but larger than on recent weekends. Since November, protesters have occupied the square and several buildings, including City Hall.
周四颁行的那些新法律引发的集会吸引了数万人。参与者人数虽然没达到12月抗议运动顶峰时期的水平，但也比最近几个周末要多。从11月开始，抗议者一直占据着该广场和包括市政大厅(City Hall)在内的几栋建筑。
Protesters said they were angered by laws seen as circumscribing the rights of public assembly.
抗议者称，他们对前述法律感到愤怒，人们认为这些法律限制了公众集会权。
The laws stiffened the penalties for setting up tents and stages in public spaces. They banned wearing helmets and balaclavas, a tactic of the opposition activists to protect themselves against the police, identification or arrest.
这些法律加大了对在公共场合设立帐篷和讲台等行为的惩罚力度，并且禁止抗议者佩戴头盔和巴拉克拉法帽，抗议者佩戴这些东西是为了保护自己免遭警察的指认或逮捕。
In defiance, many demonstrators showed up wearing upside-down kitchen kettles on their heads.
为了表示反抗，许多示威者都把厨用水壶倒扣在了头上。
The movement’s leaders have struggled to formulate a response to the laws.
针对这些法律，此次运动的领袖正在竭力拿出回应方法。
Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, one of the main protest organizers, announced a plan to form a shadow Parliament, government and Kiev city administration that would operate under the laws of a 2004 Constitution that Mr. Yanukovich had amended — illegally, the opposition says.
抗议活动主要组织者阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)宣布了一个计划，提议设立影子议会、政府和基辅市管理机构，这些机构将依据2004年的宪法运行。该宪法已经经过了亚努科维奇的修订，反对派说他的修订是非法的。
Late Sunday, Mr. Yatsenyuk, speaking from the stage on the square, said he had received a call from Mr. Yanukovich saying the government was ready for negotiations.
周日晚间，亚采纽克在广场的讲台上宣称，他已经接到了亚努科维奇的电话，后者说政府已经做好了谈判准备。
Vitali Klitschko, the leader of Punch, a political party, and a former heavyweight boxing champion, told the crowd that he was “announcing a snap presidential election,” though the parliamentary opposition has no legal grounds to force a vote if Mr. Yanukovich does not resign.
政治党派Punch的领袖、前重量级拳击冠军维塔利·克利奇科(Vitali Klitschko)告诉集会人群，他“正在宣布一场突然的总统选举”，尽管在亚努科维奇不辞职的情况下，议会反对派并没有强制举行选举的法律依据。
This inability of the leaders to force political change under the current Constitution or consolidate around a single leader in spite of clear popular support for their antigovernment agenda in the capital became a precipitating cause of the violence on Sunday.
虽然民众周日对基辅的反政府活动表现出了明显支持，领导人却没有能力在当前的宪法框架下强制推行政治变革，也无法以单一领导人为中心团结起来，这也是促成周日暴力事件的一大原因。
A leader of a group of protesters who arrived in a column of cars, a movement called Auto Maidan, after the name of the square, took the stage and said the opposition should choose one leader, and if it could not, the crowd should march on Parliament.
一群抗议者乘坐一队汽车来到这里，其领导人走上讲台说，反对派应该选出一名领导人，如果它无法做到这一点，人们就应该向议会进军。这群抗议者所属的派别以广场的名字命名，被称作“汽车独立”(Auto Maidan)。
Mr. Yatsenyuk called this speech a provocation to violence. But some in the crowd acted anyway, moving toward Parliament and clashing with riot police officers.
亚采纽克说此次演讲是在挑起暴力。但是，人群中还是有人采取了行动，他们朝议会进发，与防暴警察发生了冲突。
After the fighting began, Mr. Yatsenyuk, speaking from the stage on the square, called on protesters to refrain from violence and denounced those who were fighting the police, saying they did not represent the opposition.
打斗开始后，亚采纽克在广场的讲台上呼吁抗议者不要使用暴力，还谴责了与警方发生冲突的人，说这些人无法代表反对派。