KIEV, Ukraine — A deepening civil uprising in Ukraine turned deadly on Wednesday, and this embattled capital veered toward chaos, after at least three demonstrators died during clashes with the police and the first direct negotiations between President Viktor F. Yanukovich and opposition leaders yielded only threats and ultimatums.
乌克兰基辅——周三，乌克兰不断加剧的内乱局面急转直下，至少有三名示威者在与警察的冲突中丧生，而总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)与反对派领导人的首次谈判也只以相互威胁和发出最后通牒告终。这座高度戒备的首都陷入了混乱。
As Mr. Yanukovich met the three principal opposition leaders at the presidential headquarters on Wednesday afternoon, protesters and the police battled on a main street near the Dynamo soccer stadium. Flames from burning tires leapt into the air, beneath billows of black smoke, and there were sporadic explosions and gunfire, as the standoff entered its third day.
周三下午，当亚努科维奇与三位反对派主要领导人在总统官邸会见时，示威者和警察在迪纳摩足球场附近的一条主要街道上发生冲突。这是双方对峙的第三天，在滚滚黑烟之下，轮胎燃烧发出的火苗蹿向空中，不时还传来爆炸声和枪声。
Two protesters were shot and killed early Wednesday during the violence, the general prosecutor’s office said in a statement that promised a full investigation but generally put the blame on protesters, calling them “members of extremist-minded groups.” At least 300 were injured.
在周三早上的暴力冲突中，两位示威者遭到枪击后死亡，总检察长办公室发布声明，承诺将对此进行全面调查，但大体上将责任归咎于示威者，称他们是“极端主义思想组织的成员”。至少有300人在冲突中受伤。
The circumstances of their deaths were murky, but protesters said that the police had opened fire on them. A third man died after falling from an archway that demonstrators had climbed to hurl rocks and firebombs. There were unconfirmed reports in the Ukrainian news media of four other fatalities, including two more by gunfire and two bodies apparently found on the outskirts of Kiev.
这些死亡的具体情况并不清楚，但示威者称警察向他们开了火。而第三人则是从一个拱门上摔下死亡。许多示威者爬到那座拱门上投掷石块和燃烧弹。乌克兰新闻媒体还报道了其他四例死亡，但都未经证实。据说其中两人也是在交火中死亡，另外两人的尸体则似乎是在基辅郊外找到的。
The worsening violence came as Ukraine marked Unity Day — a commemoration of the unification of the Eastern and Western parts of the country in 1919 — and it lent a somber note to what is normally a celebration of national pride. 
暴力冲突升级的出现正值乌克兰的统一日(Unity Day)。作为纪念1919年东西乌克兰统一的日子，这原本是一个彰显民族自豪感的时刻，而暴力冲突却为它增添了阴郁的色彩。
The intractable conflict erupted in November when Ukraine was ensnared in a battle for influence between Europe and Russia, and Mr. Yanukovich was assailed by demonstrators for breaking a promise to sign political and free-trade agreements with the European Union. Since then, all efforts at conciliation have failed, and protesters have been repeatedly agitated, first by police violence and more recently by new legislation severely restricting political dissent.
这场失控的冲突在11月爆发。乌克兰当时陷入了一场欧洲和俄罗斯之间的影响力之争，示威者批评亚努科维奇背弃承诺，不与欧盟(European Union)签署政治和自由贸易协议。自那之后的各种调解努力均告失败，也不断有新的事件激怒示威者，先是警察的暴力行径，而近来则是乌克兰严格限制政治异见的立法举措。
With both sides dug in, further violence seemed virtually unavoidable, even as other countries seemed unsure what, if anything, they could do.
双方都毫不让步，进一步的暴力冲突看来几乎无可避免，而其他国家似乎并不清楚该做些什么，或是否能做任何事情。
The opposition leaders, who represent minority factions in Parliament, had initially criticized the violence against the police, but after the fruitless meeting with Mr. Yanukovich they demanded that he offer concessions within 24 hours or were apparently prepared to join the confrontation.
代表了议会中少数派的反对派领导人最初指责了针对警察的暴力行为，但是在与亚努科维奇会谈无果之后，他们要求他在24小时内做出让步，否则的话，他们似乎要加入冲突之中。
Standing on a stage in Independence Square, which protesters have occupied since early December, opposition leaders addressed the crowd with a sense of foreboding.
从12月初起，示威者就占领了独立广场(Independence Square)，这一次反对派领导人站在那里的一个台上向群众发表讲话，话语中带着山雨欲来的意味。
“I will not live in shame,” said Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, the leader in Parliament of Fatherland, the party of the jailed former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko.
“我不会活在耻辱中，”议会政党祖国联盟(Fatherland)的领导人阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)说道。该政党由身在狱中的前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)创立。
“Tomorrow we will go forward together,” Mr. Yatsenyuk said. “If there will be a bullet in the forehead, so be it. It will be honest, just and brave action.” He added, “Viktor Yanukovich, 24 hours are left. Make a decision.”
“明天我们会一起向前进发，”亚采纽克说道。“如果额头上会中枪，那就中枪吧。那将是诚实、公正和勇敢的行动。”他补充道，“维克多·亚努科维奇，还有24小时，做一个决定吧。”
Vitali Klitschko, the former world champion boxer who leads a party called Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform, also addressed Mr. Yanukovich in his remarks. “If you won’t hear the people, they will do everything to make you hear them,” he said, adding: “Tomorrow, if the president won’t listen to us, we will go into attack. There is no other way.”
前世界拳击冠军、政治党派乌克兰改革民主同盟(Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform)的领袖维塔利·克利奇科(Vitali Klitschko)的讲话也指向了亚努科维奇。“如果你不倾听民意，人们就会做任何事使你倾听，”他说，“明天，如果总统不听取我们的意见，我们会展开攻击。没有其他的路可走。”
Oleg Tyagnibok, the leader of the nationalist party Svoboda, whose followers have been among the most aggressive demonstrators, said Mr. Yanukovich did not appear to grasp the gravity of the situation. “It is very difficult to negotiate with those who are blind,” Mr. Tyagnibok said.
民族主义党派全乌克兰自由联盟(Svoboda)的追随者在示威者群体中一直属于最激进的，它的领导人奥列格·塔亚格尼布克(Oleg Tyagnibok)说，亚努科维奇看来并没有领会局势的严重性。“和那些盲目的人谈判真的非常困难，”塔亚格尼布克说。
The leaders were vague about what would occur in the likely event that Mr. Yanukovich failed to meet their demands. The fighting between protesters and the police, which raged unabated as they spoke, underscored just how little sway they may hold at this point.
至于如果亚努科维奇不满足他们的要求会发生什么，这些反对派领导人也没有说明。就在他们讲话时，示威者和警察之间的对抗也丝毫没有减弱，这突显出在当前局势之下，他们的掌控能力是多么的小。
Meanwhile, demonstrators with sledgehammers and pickaxes were dismantling the plaza they have occupied for weeks, breaking apart cobblestones to be used as weapons against the police. They bagged the broken chunks and carted them to the line of conflict about a quarter-mile away.
与此同时，示威者们正拿着长锤和鹤嘴锄拆除他们占领了几个星期的广场，将挖出来的碎石用作攻击警察的武器。他们将拆下来的大块物件装袋，运到四分之一英里外的斗争前线。
One man wielding a pickax, Serhiy, 35, described himself as unemployed and from the town of Sumy. He was not shy about how the stones would be used. “We will throw them to protect ourselves,” he said. “It’s not possible to solve this conflict peacefully. We have tried all peaceful means.”
35岁的谢尔盖(Serhiy)挥舞着一把鹤嘴锄，他说自己无业、来自小镇苏梅。说起如何使用这些石头，他毫不避讳。“我们将投掷石头来保护自己，”他说。“不可能和平解决这场冲突。我们已经尝试过了所有的和平途径。”
Mr. Yanukovich, who has often seemed aloof and remote throughout the political crisis, issued a statement on Wednesday lamenting the deaths but placing blame squarely on the opposition.
在这场政治危机的全过程中，亚努科维奇常常看上去漠不关心，仿佛置身事外。周三他发表了一份声明，对死者表示哀悼，但将责任推向了反对派。
“I express my deep regret over the loss of lives in the conflict triggered by political extremists; my sincere condolences to the bereaved families,” he said.
“对于在这场由政治极端分子挑起的冲突中丧生的人，我表示深切的遗憾；那些失去亲人的家庭，请接受我真诚的哀悼，”他说。
Mr. Yanukovich also called for an end to the violence. “Once again I ask people to resist the calls of political radicals,” he said. “It is still not too late to stop and resolve the conflict peacefully. I ask people to return to their homes. We must restore peace, tranquillity and stability in Ukraine.”
亚努科维奇也呼吁结束暴力冲突。“我再一次要求人们抵制政治激进派的号召，”他说。“现在停下来和平解决冲突还不太迟。我要求人们回到各自的家中。我们必须在乌克兰恢复和平、宁静和稳定。”
Also, the United States Embassy in Kiev said Wednesday that it had revoked the visas of several people suspected of abetting violence between the police and protesters last year, but it did not identify them, citing the confidentiality of visa applications.
此外，驻基辅的美国大使馆周三表示，对于几位涉嫌去年煽动警察和示威者之间暴力冲突的人，他们已撤销了发出的签证，但出于签证申请的保密性，他们没有说明这些人的身份。