KIEV, Ukraine — SOMETIMES the simplest question speaks the biggest truth. I was meeting with some Maidan activists here in Kiev last week, and we were talking about Russian President Vladimir Putin’s insistence that Ukraine was part of Russia’s traditional “sphere of influence” and “buffer zone” with the West, and, therefore, America and the European Union need to keep their hands off. At one point, one of the activists, the popular Ukrainian journalist, Vitali Sych, erupted: “Did anyone ask us whether we wanted to be part of his buffer zone?”
乌克兰基辅——有时候，最简单的问题可以体现出最宏大的真理。上周，我在基辅和一些独立广场活动人士见面时，谈到了俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)坚持认为，乌克兰属于俄罗斯的传统“势力范围”以及和西方之间的“缓冲区”，因此，美国和欧盟需要放弃对乌克兰的染指。交谈进行到某个时候，其中一名活动人士、乌克兰著名记者维塔利·瑟奇(Vitali Sych)爆发了：“有人问过我们，是否想成为他缓冲区的一部分吗？”
Sych’s question cut right to the core of what is unfolding here. Quite simply, a majority of Ukrainians got mad as hell at the game imposed on them — serving as bit players in Putin’s sphere of influence, so Russia could continue to feel like a great power, and also being forced to tolerate a breathtakingly corrupt pro-Russian regime in Kiev. After a bottom-up revolution in the Maidan, Kiev’s central square, which cost 100-plus lives — “the Heavenly Hundred” as they are referred to here — Ukrainians are asserting their own sphere of influence, a desire to be part of the E.U.
瑟奇的问题直击乌克兰局势的核心。很简单，大多数乌克兰人对这种强加给他们的游戏忍无可忍。这个游戏就是乌克兰在普京的势力范围中跑龙套，以便让俄罗斯继续自我感觉是个大国，以及乌克兰被迫忍受基辅亲俄政权的惊人腐败。自下而上的革命在基辅市中心的独立广场爆发，100多人为之献出了生命——在这里，他们被称为“天堂百人”(Heavenly Hundred)。在那之后，乌克兰对自己的势力范围进行了主张，表示希望成为欧盟的一员。
But, in doing so, they’re posing a deep philosophical and political challenge to Putin’s Russia — as well as to the E.U. and America. How so?
但是，乌克兰人的这种做法对普京领导的俄罗斯——以及对欧盟和美国——构成了深刻的哲学与政治挑战。怎么会这样呢？
If Putin loses, and Ukraine breaks free and joins the E.U., it would threaten the very core identity of the Russia that Putin has built and wants to expand — a traditional Russia, where the state dominates the individual and where the glory of Mother Russia comes from the territory it holds, the oil and gas it extracts, the neighbors it dominates, the number of missiles it owns and the geopolitical role it plays in the world — not from empowering its people and nourishing their talents.
如果普京输掉，乌克兰摆脱俄罗斯并加入欧盟，这将威胁俄罗斯的核心定位。普京塑造了这个定位，并希望将它发扬光大——形成一个传统的俄罗斯，在这里，国家主宰个人，祖国的荣耀来自于它拥有的领土、提炼的油气、统领的邻国、拥有的导弹数量，以及在世界上扮演的地缘政治角色——而不是赋予俄罗斯民众权力，并培养他们的才能。
If Putin wins and prevents Ukraine from holding a free and fair election on May 25, his malign influence over his neighbors would only grow. And you would see more of what you saw last week when Joe Kaeser, the chief executive of Siemens, the German engineering giant, went to Moscow to slobber over Putin and reassure him that all their deals would proceed — despite what Kaeser called “politically difficult times.” (That’s German for Putin’s blocking Ukrainians from E.U. membership that Germans already enjoy.)
如果普京获胜，并让乌克兰无法在5月25日进行自由公正的选举，那么他对邻国的邪恶影响定会有增无减。外界会看到更多像上周那样的情况：德国工程业巨头西门子(Siemens)的首席执行官乔·凯瑟尔(Joe Kaeser)前往莫斯科向普京示好，并向他保证，所有交易都将继续进行——即便处在凯瑟尔所说的“政治上的困难时期”。（这就是德国人对普京阻止乌克兰成为欧盟成员国的说法，而德国自身早已在享受欧盟成员国待遇。）
You can’t walk the cobblestone streets of the St. Sophia Square in Kiev, or tour the magnificent 11th-century onion-domed church of the same name, without learning just how much Russia and Ukraine have influenced one another over the centuries — and today will be no different. The first unified “Rus” state was born in Kiev, when “St. Vladimir the Great, the Grand Prince of Kiev,” unified all the tribes and territories in the region into an entity called by historians “Kievan Rus.” St. Vladimir also made Orthodox Christianity the official religion.
走在基辅圣索菲亚广场的砖石街道上，或是游览同名的11世纪宏伟圆顶教堂时，你自然会理解，俄罗斯和乌克兰在过去那些世纪里对彼此产生了多大的影响——直到今天也没有什么不同。第一个统一的“罗斯”国(Rus)就诞生在基辅。当时，基辅大王公圣弗拉基米尔(St. Vladimir the Great, the Grand Prince of Kiev)统一了该地区的所有部落和领地，建立了历史学家所说的“基辅罗斯”政权。圣弗拉基米尔也使东正教成为了官方宗教。
Now fast-forward 1,000-plus years, and you have another “Vladimir the Great” — Mr. Putin — massing troops on Ukraine’s border to re-establish Russia’s influence here. Putin recently hinted that it might be time for him to reclaim “Novorossiya” or New Russia, which is how a region of southeastern Ukraine was referred to by the czars in the 19th century, when it was part of Russia.
快进到1000多年后的今天，又出现了另一个“弗拉基米尔大帝”——普京。他在乌克兰的边境集结军队，以重建俄罗斯在这一地区的影响力。普京最近暗示，现在可能是时候重申对“新俄罗斯”(Novorossiya)的主权了。他指的是乌克兰东南部的一个地区，19世纪时隶属于俄罗斯，而“新俄罗斯”正是当时的沙皇对这一地区的叫法。
So when Putin says New Russia, he really means Old Russia — a Russia that used to dominate Ukraine. And he wants to prevent a New Ukraine from arising that again influences today’s Russia with new ideas, only this time liberal ones.
所以，当普京谈起“新俄罗斯”的时候，他真正的意思是“旧俄罗斯”——曾经统领乌克兰的俄罗斯。他希望防止出现一个“新乌克兰”，以免它用新的观念影响今天的俄罗斯，只不过这一次会是自由主义的观念。
“This has become an existential fight for everybody,” explained Pavlo Sheremeta, Ukraine’s new economy minister, who added that his liberal Russian friends are calling him, saying: “Please hang on. Don’t betray us.” Don’t let Putin crush the model that Ukraine is trying to build, otherwise Russia will never change.
“这已成为所有人的一场生存斗争，”乌克兰新的经济部长帕夫罗·谢瑞米达(Pavlo Sheremeta)说。他表示，自由派的俄罗斯朋友打电话给他说：“请坚持下去。不要背叛我们。”不要让普京粉碎乌克兰正在努力创建的模式，否则俄罗斯永远都不会有所改变。
“Long term, Russia’s success depends on how it competes in the 21st century, and you don’t just compete with oil and tanks and by bullying someone else,” added Sheremeta. That may make you feel strong “at the moment, but it is just a drug. Ukraine’s eventual success can be another proof that democracy, rule of law and human rights are the best recipe for sustainable development — and not the drug [Putin] is giving to his people.”
“从长远来看，俄罗斯的成功取决于它如何在21世纪竞争。你不能单靠石油和坦克，用欺凌别人的方式来竞争，”谢瑞米达还说。那种做法可能会“暂时”让你觉得很强大，“但它不过是种毒品。乌克兰的最终成功可能会再次证明：民主、法治和人权才是实现可持续发展的最佳配方——而不是[普京]供应给俄罗斯人的毒品。”
Nataliya Popovych, a businesswoman and civil society activist here, said Ukrainians have learned from their Orange Revolution in 2004, when they got rid of an old order but just turned everything over to a new group of corrupt politicians. This time the Maidan revolution has spawned a web of civil society groups that are acting as watchdogs on every minister and working to guarantee fair presidential elections.
乌克兰商人、倡导公民社会的活动人士娜塔莉亚·帕波维奇(Nataliya Popovych)表示，乌克兰已经从2004年的“橙色革命” 中汲取了教训。当时，他们摆脱了旧秩序，但却拱手把一切交给了一帮新的腐败政客。这次的独立广场革命则催生了一系列公民团体；它们监督着每位部长，还希望确保总统选举的公正进行。