MOSCOW — Truth be told, Gulnara Karimova, the eldest daughter of the strongman leader of Uzbekistan, never did seem particularly well qualified to succeed her father at the head of their impoverished and troubled Central Asian nation.
莫斯科——说实话，乌兹别克斯坦铁腕领导人的大女儿古尔娜拉·卡里莫娃(Gulnara Karimova)好像一向都不是特别适合接替她父亲，领导这个贫穷且问题丛生的中亚国家。
A gregarious socialite, she had a clothing line and recorded pop songs under a stage name, Googoosha, while Uzbekistan’s cotton-based economy languished and the government forced students into the fields once a year to bring in the harvest for almost no pay.
作为一个热衷社交的社会名流，她有自己的服装品牌，还以谷谷莎(Googoosha)为艺名录制流行歌曲，然而，乌兹别克斯坦以棉花为基础的经济停滞不前，政府每年都会把学生赶到田地里一次，强迫他们收割，却基本上不付报酬。
But Ms. Karimova’s standing has taken a big hit lately amid an escalating family power struggle after her father, President Islam Karimov, apparently allowed reports to circulate on the normally firewalled Internet that he had beaten her in a fit of rage.
但近来，在一场日渐升级的家族权力斗争中，她的地位受到了打击，目前在互联网上流传着她的父亲伊斯兰·卡里莫夫(Islam Karimov)在盛怒之下打了她的报道。在这个一向会给互联网加设防火墙的国家里，这么做显然是受到了卡里莫夫的许可。
“Karimov first slapped her on the face and then really started to beat Gulnara,” the account claimed, attributed to a security service insider and published late last month on the website of the opposition People’s Movement of Uzbekistan.
“卡里莫夫先是扇了古尔娜拉一耳光，后来真的开始打她，”该报道称。报道上月底出现在反对派乌兹别克斯坦人民运动(People’s Movement of Uzbekistan)的网站上，并称消息来源是一名负责安保的内部人士。
Over the two decades of his rule, Mr. Karimov has expelled nearly all foreign journalists and aid workers, so that reporting on the country tends to be fragmentary and based on uncertain sources of information. But drawing on a mix of Twitter messages, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, scattered Western news reports and Uznews and other opposition websites, it seems clear that a vicious and potentially destabilizing feud has broken out inside the ruling family.
在统治乌兹别克斯坦的二十多年里，卡里莫夫赶走了几乎所有外国记者和援助人员，有关该国的报道因此往往是零碎的，依据的也是不确定的信源。但综合Twitter上的信息、自由欧洲电台/自由电台(Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty)的消息、零星的西方新闻报道、《乌兹别克斯坦新闻》(Uznews)和其他反对派网站上的新闻，统治家族内部看来的确爆发了一场剧烈的、可能会影响稳定的争端。
Even as the family conflict has played out like a Hollywood scandal, its implications are serious for millions of people and for the United States military’s exit plans from Afghanistan, which shares a border with Uzbekistan.
尽管这起家族争端的上演像是一场好莱坞丑闻，但却和千千万万的民众息息相关，对于要从与乌兹别克斯坦接壤的阿富汗撤军的美国而言，这起争端也有重大影响。
Uzbekistan is Central Asia’s most populous country, but institutions are weak and the possibilities for violence are many. As with most authoritarian states nearing a transition in leadership, the succession bears with it the risks of bloodshed, betrayal within the elite and even civil unrest.
乌兹别克斯坦是中亚人口最多的国家，但制度薄弱，发生暴力的可能性很大。和大部分即将面临权力交接的独裁国家一样，该国的权力交接也伴随着流血、上层社会内部的背叛乃至社会动乱的风险。
Over his more than two decades as president, Mr. Karimov, 75, has presided over one of the world’s most repressive governments, and abuse is rife. Even by the standards of former Soviet countries, Uzbekistan is progressing poorly.
在担任总统的二十多年里，现年75岁的卡里莫夫领导的政府是全世界最专制的政府之一，滥用职权的现象随处可见。即便以前苏联国家的标准来看，乌兹别克斯坦也进步甚少。
On Oct. 28, for example, Human Rights Watch submitted a report to the United Nations Committee Against Torture outlining a litany of egregious abuses, including one case in which a secret police agent used a rolled-up newspaper lighted on fire to burn a man’s genitals during an interrogation.
比如，人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)10月28日向联合国禁止酷刑委员会(United Nations Committee Against Torture)提交的一份报告概述了一系列惊人的虐待事件，在其中一个案例中，一名秘密警察在审讯期间用一卷点燃的报纸去烧一名男子的生殖器。
According to the Uzbek Constitution, if the president dies, the speaker of the Senate becomes president. But former Soviet states are not always bound by legal norms, and if the intensity of the Karimovs’ internecine battles are any indication, they are not planning on answering to the speaker anytime soon.
根据乌兹别克宪法，如果总统去世，将由参议院议长接任总统一职。但前苏联国家不见得会接受法律准则的约束，因此，如果卡里莫夫家族的激烈内斗说明了什么，那就是，他们暂时没有搭理参议院议长的打算。
Since the summer, Mr. Karimov’s government has closed a half-dozen television channels and radio stations that constituted the crown jewels of Ms. Karimova’s media empire, ostensibly for license violations. The authorities in Uzbekistan opened official inquiries into her charitable foundations and apparently froze some of her bank accounts.
从夏季开始，卡里莫夫政府已经关闭了大约6家电视台和广播电台，表面理由是它们违反了许可证的规定。这些电视台和广播电台正是卡里莫娃媒体帝国中最显要的那部分。乌兹别克斯坦当局还对她的慈善基金会启动了官方调查，而且看来还冻结了她的部分银行账户。
For her part, Ms. Karimova, 41, on Instagram and Twitter has accused her younger sister, Lola Karimova-Tillyaeva, and her mother, Tatiana Karimova, of practicing witchcraft.
41岁的卡里莫娃则在Instagram和Twitter上指责她的妹妹萝拉·卡里莫娃-迪利亚耶娃(Lola Karimova-Tillyaeva)和母亲塔蒂阿娜·卡里莫娃(Tatiana Karimova)在使巫术。
The mother and father are separated, Uzbek dissident websites report. A cousin has been arrested for involvement in organized crime. And Ms. Karimova says her father’s police officers arrested her bodyguards.
据乌兹别克异见人士网站的报道，她们的父母已经分居。一个表亲因涉嫌有组织犯罪被逮捕。卡里莫娃说她父亲的警察逮捕了她的保镖。
“Only a small number of people inside the country really understand the state of play,” Scott Horton, a lecturer at Columbia Law School and a specialist on Central Asia, said in a telephone interview. Of Ms. Karimova, he said, “What is obvious is there has been a change in her position.”
“在这个国家里，只有很少几个人真正知道此事的内情，”哥伦比亚法学院(Columbia Law School)讲师、中亚问题专家斯科特·霍尔顿(Scott Horton)在一次电话采访中说。对于卡里莫娃，他说，“她的地位发生了变化，这一点是明确的。”
Ms. Karimova-Tillyaeva, the younger sister, who is 35, told the BBC that her older sister should forget about becoming president of Uzbekistan because her odds of succeeding their father were minuscule. She then went on to dismiss Ms. Karimova as “different.”
妹妹卡里莫娃-迪利亚耶娃现年35岁，她对BBC说，她的姐姐不应该再惦记着当乌兹别克斯坦总统的事，因为她继承父业的机会微乎其微。而后她又不屑地说，卡里莫娃这个人“与众不同”。
In a conservative Muslim country, she has a point. Platinum blonde and divorced, Ms. Karimova has made a music video, “Dare How,” in which she runs her hands over her body and sings, “She looks fine but she has 100 things on her mind.”
在这个保守的穆斯林国家，她的话不无道理。一头铂金发的卡里莫娃离了婚，还拍过一个音乐视频《胆大妄为》(Dare How)，她在里面用双手抚摸着自己的身体，唱道：“她看起来一切如常，心里却有万千思绪。”
By contrast, Ms. Karimova-Tillyaeva is dark-haired, demure, married and, by all appearances, now the apple of her father’s eye.
相比之下，黑发的卡里莫娃-迪利亚耶娃仪态端庄，已婚，种种迹象都表明她现在是其父的掌上明珠。
Ms. Karimova’s troubles at home follow setbacks abroad, contributing to an overall picture of the unraveling of the career of a coddled descendant of an authoritarian ruler.
在国内遇到这些麻烦之前，卡里莫娃在国外也不顺利，愈发让人觉得她就是一个被宠坏的独裁者后代，其事业正在土崩瓦解。
She was banned from showing her label, Guli, at New York Fashion Week in 2011 because rights groups said her father’s government used child slave labor to harvest the cotton used in fabric in her clothes.
2011年纽约时装周上，她的品牌Guli被禁止举办秀展，因为有人权组织说，她的衣服所使用的布料来自其父政府奴役童工所采摘的棉花。
This year, it was widely reported in Sweden that prosecutors there had accused Ms. Karimova of accepting a bribe of about $340 million from TeliaSonera, the largest telecommunications company in Sweden, in exchange for access to the Uzbek cellphone market. TeliaSonera has denied wrongdoing.
今年，瑞典检察官对卡里莫娃发起指控一事在瑞典国内被广泛报道，她被控的罪名是收受来自瑞典最大电信公司TeliaSonera的贿赂，这笔约3.4亿美元的贿赂的目的是获得进入乌兹别克手机市场的机会。该公司已经否认存在不当行为。
Some analysts suggest that the family fight is partly a ruse to underscore distinctions between assets in Ms. Karimova’s name and other family holdings in Europe, lest investigators broaden their inquiry to the rest of the family.
有分析人士提出，这场家族内斗在一定程度上也许是一个计谋，为的是给卡里莫娃名下的资产和家族在欧洲持有的其他资产划清界限，以免调查人员将调查范围扩大到家族其他成员。
After her younger sister’s interview on the BBC, Ms. Karimova called her a witch. “The other part of the family destroys and is friends with sorcerers,” she wrote in a post on Instagram.
在妹妹接受BBC采访后，卡里莫娃称她是个巫婆。“家里其他人搞破坏，与巫师为伍，”她在Instagram上写道。
Ms. Karimova then wrote on Twitter that her father’s secret police had arrested and were torturing her bodyguards.
卡里莫娃随后在Twitter上写道，她父亲的秘密警察逮捕并拷打了她的保镖。
“An officer was seriously beaten up,” she wrote on the Twitter account widely believed to be hers because she has posted on it unpublished photographs of herself doing yoga. “Last time, ribs were broken.”
这个Twitter账号被广泛认为的确属于她本人，因为她曾经通过这个账号发布此前未曾发布过的照片，显示她在做瑜伽。她写道：“一位官员遭到严重的殴打。上次，肋骨都被打断了。”
With Ms. Karimova now apparently out of contention, the succession in Uzbekistan has narrowed to two insiders, a prime minister and a deputy prime minister, while the National Security Service chief, Rustam Inoyatov, is trying to assert a role as kingmaker.
如今卡里莫娃看似已经退出角逐，乌兹别克斯坦继承人之争只剩下两位内部人士，分别是总理和副总理，而国家安全局(National Security Service)局长鲁斯塔姆·伊诺亚托夫(Rustam Inoyatov)则尝试在事关候选人的决策上占据一席之地。
Far from showing that the president is weak, some analysts of Central Asia say, the family fight left Mr. Karimov appearing as strong as ever.
许多中亚分析人士认为，这次家族内斗非但没有让总统显得软弱，反而让他的形象前所未有地强大起来。
“Gulnara is probably the person Karimov loves most because she looks like him and is very smart,” said one Western official who has met both father and daughter. “But he is capable of turning on his daughter. He is not the only one on earth that fits in that category. But he is certainly in that category.”
“卡里莫夫可能最喜欢古尔娜拉，因为她长得像他，又很聪明，”一位和父女两人都见过面的西方国家官员称。“但他是会去攻击自己的女儿的人。世上能这么干的人不只他一个。但他无疑属于其中之一。”