KRÜN, Germany —  President Obama would have preferred to spend the summit meeting of the leaders of the seven leading industrial nations fully focused on big issues that he hopes will define his legacy, including confronting climate change and expanding global trade.
德国库恩——奥巴马总统本来更愿意把七国集团领导人峰会的重点，全部放到可以定义政治遗产的重大问题上，包括对抗气候变化以及拓展全球贸易。
Instead, crisis diplomacy once again largely overshadowed those issues, as Mr. Obama and his Group of 7 counterparts struggled to confront the threats posed by the Islamic State and the persistent and vexing problem of Russia’s involvement in Ukraine.
然而，危机外交再一次令这些问题黯然失色，因为奥巴马和其他七国集团的政要们要艰难地对抗伊斯兰国(Islamic State)构成的威胁，以及应对俄罗斯卷入乌克兰危机这一持久而棘手的问题。
The president headed home on Monday with pledges from European leaders to reduce global emissions of greenhouse gases. And Mr. Obama said the leaders he had met with were united in their efforts to expand free trade.
奥巴马总统周一回国时，得到了欧洲领导人减少全球温室气体排放的承诺。奥巴马说，他会见的领导人们会团结起来努力推进自由贸易。
But the agenda here at a sprawling resort in the shadow of the Bavarian Alps was dominated by security issues.
但是这次在巴伐利亚阿尔卑斯山脚下的一座度假村里召开的峰会，议程却被安全问题所主导。
At a news conference Monday after the close of the summit meeting, Mr. Obama acknowledged a need to accelerate the training of Iraqi military forces to counter the advance of Islamic State militants, and he said that he had asked the Pentagon for a plan to do that.
在周一峰会闭幕后的新闻发布会上，奥巴马承认需要加快训练伊拉克军队的步调，从而对抗伊斯兰国武装分子的挺进。他还说，他已经责成五角大楼就此做出计划。
“We don’t have, yet, a complete strategy, because it requires commitments on the part of Iraqis as well,” Mr. Obama said. “The details are not worked out.”
“我们还没有一套完整的战略，因为这也要求伊拉克方面承担义务，”奥巴马说。“细节还没有确定。”
Mr. Obama said of the militants of the Islamic State, also known as ISIL and ISIS: “They’re nimble and they’re aggressive and they’re opportunistic.”
奥巴马评价伊斯兰国（又称“ISIL”、“ISIS”）武装分子时称，“他们敏捷、好斗，会钻空子。”
He acknowledged that the training of Iraqi forces “has not been happening as fast as it needs to.” And he said the United States has “made some progress, but not enough” in stemming the flow of foreign fighters into Iraq and Syria.
他承认伊拉克军队的训练“进展的还不够快”。并且他说美国在遏制外国武装分子进入伊拉克和叙利亚方面，已经“取得了一些成功，但还不够”。
Mr. Obama said that “thousands” of new fighters were replenishing the ranks of the Islamic State faster than the coalition could remove them from the fight.
奥巴马说“数以千计”新加入的武装分子对伊斯兰国武装的补充，比联军在战斗中把他们歼灭的速度要快。
“If we can cut off some of that foreign fighter flow, then we are able to isolate and wear out ISIL forces that are already there,” Mr. Obama said. “Because we are taking a lot of them off the battlefield, but if they’re being replenished, then it doesn’t solve the problem over the long term.”
“如果我们能阻止一些外国武装分子的加入，那么我们就能孤立伊斯兰国的武装力量，最终把他们现有的力量全部消耗掉，”奥巴马说。“因为我们在战场上能歼灭很多，但是如果他们不断得到补充，那么长期来看还是无法解决问题。”
The president also said that Turkey was not doing what was required to monitor its border with Syria and halt the stream of fighters.
奥巴马还说，土耳其也没有采取必要的行动，监控其与叙利亚的边界，从而阻止来自外国的作战人员。
Earlier on Monday, Mr. Obama met with Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq, where he reaffirmed the world powers’ commitment to supporting Iraq in the fight against the Islamic State, which has made major gains in recent weeks.
周一早些时候，奥巴马与伊拉克总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)会面，会面期间他重申了世界大国支持伊拉克打击伊斯兰国的斗争的承诺。伊斯兰国在最近几周取得了重大进展。
“Although it is going to take time, and there will be setbacks and lessons learned, we are going to be successful,” Mr. Obama said at the start of his meeting with Mr. Abadi. “ISIL is going to be driven out of Iraq, and ultimately, it is going to be defeated.”
“尽管这会花很长的时间，并且也会遭遇挫折和吸取教训，但我们最终会成功，”奥巴马在与阿巴迪会面的一开始说道。“伊斯兰国会被赶出伊拉克，并且最终会被消灭。”
The campaign to defeat the Islamic State has been part of the crowded agenda at the meeting here. Discussions were dominated by the question of how to address Russia’s continued aggression in Ukraine.
抗击伊斯兰国是峰会庞杂议程中的一部分。峰会还被如何应对俄罗斯在乌克兰不断实施进犯的问题主导。
Mr. Obama has tried to hold together a European sanctions program in the face of increasing pressure from President Vladimir V. Putin. As he departed, Mr. Obama said he expected that European leaders would renew sanctions next month and indicated that those measures could be expanded if Mr. Putin did not relent.
面对普京日益施加的压力，奥巴马试图让欧洲团结一致，维持制裁方案。在离开峰会时，奥巴马说，他预计欧洲领导人将在下个月延续对俄制裁。他还指出，如果普京不肯退让，他们会加大制裁力度。
“He’s got to make a decision — does he continue to wreck his nation’s economy and continue Russia’s isolation in pursuit of a wrongheaded desire to recreate the glories of the Soviet empire?” Mr. Obama said at a news conference after the two-day meeting. “Or does he recognize that Russia’s greatness does not depend on violating the territorial integrity” of its neighbors.
“他必须做出抉择：为了自己重建苏联帝国荣耀的错误欲望，继续让俄罗斯的经济蒙受打击，并让该国陷于孤立，还是承认，俄罗斯的辉煌并不依赖于对邻国领土完整的破坏，”为期两天的会议结束后，奥巴马在新闻发布会上说。
The consensus at the end of the summit meeting was a boost for Mr. Obama, who needs European allies to maintain sanctions that keep Russia isolated and on the defensive. But that prospect seems increasingly unlikely, as violence mounts and Moscow appears to have weathered the economic onslaught of American and European sanctions.
峰会结束时达成的共识对奥巴马有利，他需要欧洲盟友继续制裁俄罗斯，让它陷于孤立并处于防御状态。但随着暴力的加剧，而且莫斯科似乎经受住了欧美制裁的经济冲击，这种前景实现的可能性似乎越来越小。