MOSCOW — Russia’s quasiwar in eastern Ukraine is in no small measure a product of long-felt anti-Western tensions within Vladimir Putin’s Kremlin that are rapidly spiraling out of control.
莫斯科——在很大程度上，俄罗斯在乌克兰东部的准战争是弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)治下的克里姆林宫长期以来的反西方情绪的产物，而这种对立正迅速滑向失控的地步。
With the downing of the Malaysian airliner over territory controlled by pro-Russian insurgents, the rift between Russia and Ukraine has become an international conflict. Citizens of the Netherlands, Malaysia, Australia, Indonesia, Britain, Belgium and other countries have been killed in a war that many people in the West might have thought had little to do with them.
随着马来西亚的一架客机在亲俄反叛分子控制的土地上坠毁，俄乌之间的分歧已演变为国际冲突。荷兰、马来西亚、澳大利亚、印度尼西亚、英国和比利时等多国公民成为战争的牺牲品，而许多西方人或许曾以为，这场战争与他们没什么干系。
We do not know who pulled the trigger, but we know that the armed rebels operating in the east of Ukraine have always had the vocal support of high-ranking Kremlin officials. Since late February, when Ukraine’s pro-Russian president, Viktor Yanukovych, fled Kiev, Russia’s official media has been bending over backward to present the new Ukrainian government as a fascist junta manipulated by the West while the Kremlin pursues its twin goals — keeping NATO and Western economic influence in check.
我们尚不清楚是谁扣动了扳机，但我们知道，在乌克兰东部活动的武装反对派持续获得了克里姆林宫高层的大力支持。自乌克兰的亲俄总统维克托·亚努科维奇(Viktor Yanukovych)2月底逃离基辅以来，俄罗斯官方媒体一直在竭力将乌克兰的新政府描绘为西方操控下的法西斯军政府。与此同时，克里姆林宫在追求其双重目标——控制北约与西方经济的影响力。
The virulent, anti-American, anti-Western rhetoric emanating from the Kremlin has been one of the main drivers of Moscow’s support for the Ukrainian conflict. This antipathy has its roots in the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991 and the dashed hopes and disillusion that fueled an unprincipled scramble for wealth and power in the anarchy that followed.
克里姆林宫散布的反美反西方恶毒言论是莫斯科支持乌克兰冲突的主要助推力量之一。这种强烈的敌意部分源自1991年的苏联解体，及其带来的希望粉碎与幻灭感。在解体后的混乱局面中，这些情绪助长了对财富与权势的无原则追逐。
Over the ensuing decades, the leaders of the Russian establishment have grown increasingly suspicious and fiercely antagonistic toward Western economic and political institutions. Since 1993, high-ranking bureaucrats, academics, members of parliament, business executives, and top law enforcement and security officials have shown rising levels of anti-Americanism, according to a recent study by the Higher School of Economics in St. Petersburg and William Zimmerman of the University of Michigan. The source of this antipathy, according to Eduard Ponarin, a professor of sociology at the school, “is elite frustration over the failure to modernize their country along some foreign models.”
在随后的几十年中，俄罗斯体制内的领袖们越来越怀疑并激烈地仇视西方的经济和政治制度。圣彼得堡的高等经济大学(Higher School of Economics)和密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的威廉·齐默尔曼(Willianm Zimmerman)最近的一项研究显示，1993年以来，高级官员、学者、议员、商业高管以及高层执法和安全官员的反美情绪都不断增长。高等经济大学的社会学教授爱德华·波纳林(Eduard Ponarin)说，这种敌意的来源，“是权贵阶层对按照国外的一些模式未能实现国家现代化的沮丧之情”。
Mutual trust between Russian and American elites did rise slightly in the early years of this century. President George W. Bush and Mr. Putin exhibited a warm rapport during their first meeting, in Slovenia in June of 2001. In the aftermath of 9/11, the Kremlin voiced strong support for Washington’s war on terror. But the show of cordiality did not hold: Clashes erupted over the Iraqi war, NATO expansion, and the so-called color revolutions in Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan.
本世纪头几年，俄罗斯和美国的权贵阶层间的互信的确略有增长。2001年6月，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)和普京在斯洛文尼亚首次见面时，双边关系显得十分融洽。“9·11”事件后，克里姆林宫表达了对华盛顿反恐战争的强烈支持。但和谐的表象没能持续下去：双方在一些问题上爆发了冲突，包括伊拉克战争、北约扩张，以及格鲁吉亚、乌克兰和吉尔吉斯斯坦所谓的颜色革命。
Anti-Americanism came from the top down. The Russian ruling class saw these events as hostile acts directed at Moscow by the West. President Putin, Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev and their supporters found it politically useful to accentuate anti-American rhetoric to garner public support, especially as the economic growth that heralded Mr. Putin’s early years in power sputtered and faded.
反美情绪是自上而下的。俄罗斯统治阶级把上述事件看做是西方针对莫斯科的敌对行动。普京总统、德米特里·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri Medvedev)总理，以及他们的支持者发现，通过强化反美言论来获得公众支持在政治上行之有效，尤其是在普金上任之初的经济增长已不复存在的时候。
The elites who went through a profound disillusionment with the Western ways are now occupying key decision-making positions in the Kremlin, state-owned business and media. These people learned most of their survival skills in the 1990s. They know how to operate in a market that is barely regulated. They know how to keep their adversaries guessing. It’s an environment where the levels of trust are low, the levels of uncertainty are high and the rule of law does not mean much.
对西方道路深感幻灭的权贵阶层，目前正在克里姆林宫、国有企业和媒体里占据着重要决策岗位。这些人的大部分生存技能是上世纪90年代习得的。他们知道如何在一个基本上没有监管的市场中进行运作。他们知道如何让对手犹疑不定。这是一个信任水平低下、不确定性极高、法治没有太大意义的环境。
Cynical pragmatism is the order of the day. President Putin and his circle see gullibility and idealism of any kind as a politician’s main weakness. Mr. Putin’s skills — sharpened through the years of growing disillusionment in Russia — are uniquely suited to this environment. He is both very effective in playing upon this distrust of the West and highly adept in his politics of international disruption.
玩世不恭的实用主义大行其道。普京总统及其亲信把轻信和所有类别的理想主义看做政治家的致命弱点。普京的本领在俄罗斯的那些幻灭年代中受到了磨砺，与这个环境如同天造地设的一对。他既能有效地利用这种对西方的不信任，又深谙在国际上搅混水的政治手段。
While efforts by Washington — such as President Obama’s push for tougher sanctions — are understandable, they feed into Putin’s hands, enabling him to play the patriotic card, gaining political traction at home as he inveighs against foreign powers hostile to Russia and scores points against his domestic critics — Westernized middle class urban dwellers who see his authoritarian demagoguery for what it is.
尽管华盛顿的行动——比如奥巴马总统对更严厉制裁的推动——合情合理，却成了落在普京手里的把柄，让他能够打起爱国牌，抨击敌视俄罗斯的外国势力，在与国内批评者的较量中占据上风，从而在俄罗斯获得政治资本。他的国内批评者包括西化的中产阶级城市居民，他们看清了普京独裁煽动行为的本质。
According to a 2013 report from the Valdai Discussion Club, a Russian think tank, members of the generation born in the 1980s who are now beginning to enter elite positions in Russian academic, professional and political life are increasingly suspicious about the global ambitions of the United States. These are President Putin’s minions. So are the thousands of people from both sides of the Russian-Ukrainian border who have taken up arms to fight the so-called fascists.
根据俄罗斯智库瓦尔代辩论俱乐部(Valdai Discussion Club)2013年的一份报告，上世纪80年代出生的，目前开始进入俄罗斯学术、企业和政治生活的那一代人，对美国的全球报复越来越持怀疑态度。这些人就是普京总统的仆从。俄乌边境数以千计的拿起武器抗击所谓法西斯主义者的人们也是。