You can’t make this up. The Guardian reported on Sunday that Ukrainians have crowdfunded the first “people’s drone” to help their army stem infiltration by Russian-supported rebels in Ukraine’s eastern provinces that border Russia. “Last week, Ukraine’s crowdfunding site ‘The People’s Project’ said that it had received enough donations to fund a drone,” The Guardian reported. “The organizers had originally hoped to buy a state-of-the-art Israeli drone — for $165,000 — or a cheaper American one costing $120,000. In the end, however, they managed to build the drone for just $35,000. A designer and other volunteers built the airframe, with a Ukrainian military institute chipping in technical equipment.”
这可不是编的。《卫报》(The Guardian)周一报道称，乌克兰人通过众筹制造了首架“人民的无人机”，以便帮助乌克兰军队阻止乌克兰东部省份获得俄罗斯支持的叛乱分子的渗入，这些省份与俄罗斯接壤。“上周，乌克兰的众筹网站‘人民的项目’(The People’s Project)表示，该网站收到的捐款足以购买一架无人机，”《卫报》报道称。“组织者最初希望购买一架最先进的以色列无人机——16.5万美元（约合102万元人民币），或比较便宜的美国无人机——12万美元。但最终，他们仅用了3.5万美元就建造了一架无人机。一名设计师和其他志愿者建造了机身，一家乌克兰军事学院提供了技术设备。”
Good for them. The fate of Ukraine matters — as much, if not more, as Syria and Iraq. We don’t have to search for “moderates” in Ukraine. Millions there have already both fought for and voted to align their country with the free markets and free people of the European Union.
好样的。乌克兰的命运与叙利亚及伊拉克的命运同样重要。我们不需要在乌克兰寻找“温和派”。成千上万乌克兰人已经投票选择与欧盟的自由市场及不受束缚的人民结盟，并为此而战。
In Brussels, on Friday, the newly elected Ukrainian president, Petro Poroshenko, signed a trade pact with the European Union that will lower tariffs on Ukrainian exports to the 28-nation E.U. market in return for Ukraine implementing anti-corruption, transparency and quality-control reforms designed to bring its economy up to Western standards. It was the same deal that Poroshenko’s predecessor, Viktor Yanukovych, refused to sign last November under pressure from President Vladimir Putin of Russia. That set off the revolution in Kiev’s main square that eventually toppled Yanukovych and ignited a rebellion by Putin-directed separatists in eastern Ukraine. Which is why only hours after the deal was signed, Russia’s deputy foreign minister, Grigory Karasin, was quoted by the Interfax news agency as ominously warning that the E.U.-Ukraine accord would have “serious consequences.”
周五，乌克兰新当选的总统彼得·波罗申科(Petro Poroshenko)在布鲁塞尔与欧盟签订贸易协议——降低乌克兰出口至欧盟28国的商品的关税，乌克兰则要实施反腐、透明度及质量控制改革，以便使乌克兰的经济发展达到西方标准。去年11月，前任总统维克托·亚努科维奇(Viktor Yanukovych)迫于俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的压力，拒绝签署该协议。此举引发了在基辅主要广场的革命运动，革命最终推翻了亚努科维奇，导致乌克兰东部受普京指挥的分离主义者发动叛乱。因此，在双方签署协议数小时后，俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道称，俄罗斯副外长格里戈里·卡拉辛(Grigory Karasin)发出严重警告，欧乌协议将产生“严重后果”。
Really? Think about that. One nation threatening another for signing a trade pact in hopes of elevating the incomes of its people, which have badly lagged those of its neighbors, like Poland, who joined the European Union after the collapse of the Soviet Union. I get that the Russians would not want Ukraine to join NATO, a defense alliance still aimed at containing Russian power. I opposed NATO’s expansion at the end of the Cold War and would not support it now. But a trade deal that doesn’t even lead to automatic E.U. membership? Is this how Russia maintains its power status? By keeping its neighbors poor and energy starved?
真的是这样吗？好好想想。一个国家因为另一个希望增加民众收入的国家签订贸易协议而对它进行威胁，后者的收入水平远远落后于它的邻国，比如在苏联解体后加入了欧盟的波兰。我明白，俄罗斯人不希望乌克兰加入北约(NATO)，这个防务联盟仍在致力于遏制俄罗斯的势力。冷战结束后，我反对北约扩张，如今，我也不会支持北约扩张。但签订该协议，乌克兰不会自动成为欧盟成员，这样的协议也要反对吗？这就是俄罗斯维持大国地位的方式吗？使邻国一直处于贫穷、能源短缺的困境？
I had argued in May that Putin had “blinked” when, in the wake of Western sanctions and the threat of more, he pulled back troops from Ukraine’s border where he had massed them — hoping first to block Poroshenko’s election and then the signing of the E.U. deal. But maybe Putin just winked. While he did not invade, he has shoveled arms and proxies into eastern Ukraine to foment separatism in Russian-speaking areas. Today, Poroshenko — fed up with Putin’s Goebbels-quality lying — moved forces to regain control of eastern Ukraine and his country’s right to choose its future. Putin is clearly afraid of more sanctions. It is time the U.S. and E.U. imposed them.
我在今年5月曾表示，在西方施加制裁并威胁要采取更多制裁举措后，普京“眨眼了”，他将部队从俄乌边境撤回，他当初调遣军队驻守边境，希望首先阻止波罗申科当选总统，然后阻止乌克兰与欧盟签订协议。但普京可能只是眨了下眼。他没有入侵乌克兰，但他将装备和人员送入乌克兰东部地区，在俄语区煽动分裂。如今，波罗申科厌烦了普京的这些和戈培尔 (Goebbels)一个水平的谎言，在调兵遣将重新夺回对乌克兰东部的控制权，以及乌克兰选择未来的权利。很明显，普京害怕遭到进一步制裁。美国和欧盟现在应该施加更多制裁。