MINSK, Belarus — Ukraine released video footage on Tuesday of what it said were 10 captured Russian soldiers, raising tensions as President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia arrived in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, for talks later in the day with his Ukrainian counterpart, President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine.
白俄罗斯明斯克 —— 正当俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)抵达白俄罗斯首都明斯克，将于当天晚些时候与乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O.Poroshenko)举行会谈的时候，乌克兰于周二公布了其称为10名俄罗斯士兵的录像，让局面进一步紧张。
In earlier peace talks between lower-ranking officials, Moscow’s position has prevented discussion of what Ukraine regards as the key to stopping the conflict: a Russian willingness to acknowledge, and halt, its support for rebels holed up in the eastern cities of Luhansk and Donetsk.
在此前的较低级别官员进行的和平谈判中，莫斯科采取的立场一直阻碍着一个问题的讨论，而乌克兰认为那是停止冲突的关键，那个问题就是：俄罗斯是否有意承认其支持了躲藏在乌克兰东部城市卢甘斯克和顿涅茨克的反政府武装，并停止这种支持。
“It makes it very difficult to negotiate anything when Putin says he is not involved,” Michael A. McFaul, a former United States ambassador to Moscow and now a professor at Stanford University, said in a telephone interview.
“普京说他与之无关，这让什么谈判都很难进行，”美国前任驻俄罗斯大使迈克尔·A·麦克福尔(Michael A. McFaul)在接受电话采访时说，他现在是斯坦福大学的教授。
The release of the videos and the high-level talks came a day after Ukraine accused Russia of sending an armored column across the border, prompting Geoffrey R. Pyatt, the United States ambassador to Ukraine, to express alarm on Twitter. “The new columns of Russian tanks and armor crossing into Ukraine indicates a Russian-directed counteroffensive may be underway. #escalation,” he wrote.
在公布视频和举行高级会谈的前一天，乌克兰指责俄罗斯把一个装甲车队送过乌俄边界，这让美国驻乌克兰大使杰弗里·R·派亚特(Geoffrey R. Pyatt)在Twitter上发出警告。他用#esclation（冲突升级）的标签写道，“俄罗斯坦克和装甲车越境进入乌克兰的新情况表明，俄罗斯指导下的反攻可能已经来临。”
American and Ukrainian officials are increasingly concerned that Russia is orchestrating a counteroffensive to reverse recent gains by Ukrainian forces. “Russia’s military incursions into Ukraine — artillery, air def systems, dozens of tanks & military personnel —represent significant escalation,” Susan E. Rice, President Obama’s national security adviser, wrote in a recent Twitter post. 
美国和乌克兰的官员越来越担心，俄罗斯正在策划一场反攻，以扭转乌克兰军队最近取得的优势。奥巴马总统的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)近日在Twitter上发帖说，“俄罗斯军事力量，包括炮兵、防空系统、数十辆坦克，以及军人介入乌克兰，是局势显著升级的表现。”
After repeated accusations of Russian involvement that were not backed by any solid evidence, Ukraine on Tuesday released videos of men who, under interrogation, identified themselves as Russian soldiers captured on Ukrainian territory. The men, who gave their names and military serial numbers, said they had been sent to Ukraine by their superiors after initially being told they were going on a training exercise.
乌克兰曾多次指责俄罗斯的卷入，但没有提供任何确凿的证据支持，这次，乌克兰在周二公布了一些男子接受讯问时的录像，这些男子自称是俄罗斯士兵，他们是在乌克兰领土上被抓获的。这些男子报出了自己的姓名和军队编号，称他们是被上级派到乌克兰的，他们最初被告知是去参加一个训练演习。
The videos were posted on the Facebook page of Ukraine’s so-called Anti-Terrorist Operation, just hours before Mr. Putin was expected to meet Mr. Poroshenko and senior officials of the European Union in Minsk. The meeting between the two presidents, the first since a brief encounter in June, would not end the conflict in eastern Ukraine, analysts said, but should at least open the way for future talks.
就在普京预期将于波罗申科和欧盟官员在明斯克见面前仅几个小时，乌克兰的所谓“反恐行动”将这些视频公布在Facebook页面上。分析人士称，两国总统的会晤，不会结束在乌克兰东部的冲突，但至少应该能为未来的谈判铺平道路，这是他们在6月份的一次短暂相遇之后的首次会晤。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who visited Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, over the weekend, dampened expectations for the Minsk meeting. It “certainly won’t result in the breakthrough” that Germany and others were hoping for, she told a German newspaper.
于周末访问了基辅的德国总理安格拉·默克尔，对明斯克的会晤不抱多高的预期。她对一家德国报纸说，就德国和其他国家所期待东西来说，“肯定不会有所突破。”
The videos released by Ukraine may make it more difficult for the Kremlin to stick to its approach of simply denying that it has any hand in the fighting.
乌克兰公布的录像可能会让克里姆林宫更难坚持其否认参与战斗的简单做法。
“Everything was a lie. There were no drills here,” one of the captured Russians, who identified himself as Sergey A. Smirnov, told a Ukrainian interrogator. He said he and other Russians from an airborne unit in Kostroma, in central Russia, had been sent on what was described initially as a military training exercise but later turned into a mission into Ukraine. After having their cellphones and identity documents taken away, they were sent into Ukraine on vehicles stripped of all markings, Mr. Smirnov said. 
“一切都是谎言。这里没有演习，”其中一名被抓获的俄罗斯士兵对讯问者说，他自称名叫谢尔盖·A·斯米尔诺夫(Sergey A. Smirnov)。他说，他和一个驻扎在俄罗斯中部科斯特罗马的空降部队的其他士兵，受命参加一个最初被描述为军事训练的演习，但后来变成了一个进入乌克兰的任务。斯米尔诺夫说，他们的手机和身份证件被收走后，他们乘坐没有任何标记的车辆进入了乌克兰。
In another video released by Ukraine, a Russian identified himself as Ivan Milchakov, a member of a paratroop regiment from Kostroma. “Everything is different here, not like they show it on television. We’ve come as cannon fodder,” he said, apparently referring to Russian television reports that the ouster of Viktor F. Yanukovych as Ukraine’s president in February left Ukraine in the hands of fascist fanatics. He said he “did not see where we crossed the border” into Ukraine and had been told he was being sent on “a 70-kilometer march over three days.”
在乌克兰公布的另一段视频中，一个俄罗斯人自报姓名为伊万·米尔察科夫(Ivan Milchakov)，是科斯特罗马伞兵团的成员。“这里的一切都不象他们在电视上展示的那样。我们是来当炮灰的，”他说，显然他指的是俄罗斯电视台报道的，被赶下台的乌克兰总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)二月份离开乌克兰后，该国落入法西斯狂热分子手中的情况。他说，他“没看到我们在什么地方越过边界”进入了乌克兰，他被告知受派参加一个“三天70公里的行军”。
RIA Novosti, a state-controlled Russian news agency, quoted an unnamed source from Russia’s defense ministry as saying the men had crossed into Ukraine by accident. “The soldiers really did participate in a patrol of a section of the Russian-Ukrainian border, crossed it by accident on an unmarked section, and as far as we understand showed no resistance to the armed forces of Ukraine when they were detained,” the source said.
由国家控制的俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)，援引俄罗斯国防部未具名消息人士的话说，那些男子是意外越境进入乌克兰的。该消息人士说，“那些士兵们确实参加了沿俄乌边界的一段巡逻，偶然越过了一处没有标志的界线，据我们了解，他们被乌克兰军队抓获时，没有抵抗。”
A spokesman for the Ukrainian military, Andriy Lysenko, disputed that account and accused Russia of sending the soldiers across the border on a “special mission,” Reuters reported.
乌克兰军方发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)对上述解释提出质疑，并指责俄罗斯派这些士兵越过边境执行“特殊任务”，据路透社报道。
Dmitri Trenin, an expert on Russian foreign policy and the director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, predicted that Russia would persist with its denials but might be willing to quietly abandon its support over time as it shifted to other ways to pressure Kiev. “There is no solution to the Ukraine issue any time soon,” Mr. Trenin said in a telephone interview from Moscow.
卡内基莫斯科中心(Carnegie Moscow Center)主任、俄罗斯外交政策专家德米特里·特列宁(Dmitri Trenin)预测，俄罗斯将顽固坚持否认参与，但一段时间后，由于转用其他方法向基辅施压，俄可能会愿意悄悄放弃支持乌克兰叛乱分子的做法。“乌克兰问题不会很快解决，”特列宁在莫斯科接受电话采访时说。
Russia has already cut off gas supplies to Ukraine, complaining that it has not been paid for previous deliveries, and energy shortages will grow increasingly painful for Ukraine as winter approaches. Moscow’s long-term goal, Mr. Trenin said, is not to force Ukraine to recognize the rebels’ self-declared states but to ensure that Ukraine never joins NATO or allows Western troops on Ukrainian territory.
俄罗斯已经切断了对乌克兰的天然气供应，俄方抱怨没有收到对以前供气的付款，随着冬季的来临，能源短缺问题会进一步困扰乌克兰。特列宁说，莫斯科的长期目标，不是强迫乌克兰承认叛军自我宣告成立的国家，而是要确保乌克兰永不加入北约，或允许西方军队出现在乌克兰领土上。
That goal could be accomplished, he said, by forcing Ukraine to make constitutional changes that would give eastern regions an effective veto over key decisions by the government in Kiev.
他说，可以通过迫使乌克兰进行宪法改革，赋予东部地区对基辅政府的关键决策有效否决权的方法，来实现这个目标。
“We are still at the early stages of this monumental struggle,” he said. “The eastern rebels may lose their battle and Putin may be willing to accept this as a tactical move. But he is not ready to accept defeat of Russia’s policy in Ukraine.” 
“我们仍处在这场巨大斗争的早期阶段，”他说。“东部的叛军可能会战败，普京可能会愿意将其作为一个战术行动接受。但他并不准备接受俄罗斯在乌克兰政策的失败。”