CHASLOVTSY, Ukraine — As Ukraine tries to contain a pro-Russian insurgency convulsing its eastern region, a perhaps more significant struggle for the country hinges on what happens beneath the ground here in a placid woodland in the far west, on the border with Slovakia.
乌克兰恰斯洛维特瑟——就在乌克兰设法对撼动东部地区稳定的亲俄叛乱加以控制之时，在西部的斯洛伐克边境，这个国家面临一场或许更为重要的争斗，这场斗争的形势如何，取决于那里的一片平静林区的地下将会发生什么。
This is where around $20 billion worth of Russian natural gas flows each year through huge underground pipelines to enter Europe after a nearly 3,000-mile journey from Siberia. It is also, the pro-European government in Kiev believes, where Ukraine has a chance to finally break free from the grip of Gazprom, Russia’s state-controlled energy behemoth.
每年有大约价值200亿美元（约合1252亿元人民币）的俄罗斯天然气通过那里的大型地下管道，从西伯利亚输送至欧洲，输送路程将近3000英里（约合4830公里）。亲欧洲的基辅政府认为，这里蕴藏着一个机会，乌克兰可以借此摆脱俄罗斯国有能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）的控制。
In an effort to do this, Ukraine has for more than a year been pushing hard to start so-called reverse-flow deliveries of gas from Europe via Slovakia to Ukraine, thus blunting repeated Russian threats to turn off the gas tap.
为了达到上述目标，乌克兰在一年多的时间里极力设法开启所谓的逆流输送计划——将天然气从欧洲途经斯洛伐克输送至乌克兰，以此抵御俄罗斯反复发出的天然气断供威胁。
An agreement signed last week between Slovak and Ukrainian pipeline operators opened the way for modest reverse-flow deliveries of gas from Europe, where prices are much lower than those demanded by Gazprom for its direct sales to Ukraine.
斯洛伐克和乌克兰的管道运营商上周签署的协议，为欧洲天然气的适度逆流输送开辟了道路，其售价远低于俄气公司向乌克兰直销的天然气的价格。
But the deal, brokered by the European Union and nudged along by the White House, fell so far short of what Ukraine had been lobbying for that it left a nagging question: Why has it been so difficult to prod tiny Slovakia, a European Union member, to get a technically simple and, for Ukraine and for the credibility of the 28-nation bloc, vitally important venture off the ground?
但这份由欧盟(European Union)撮合、白宫推动的协议远远达不到乌克兰的游说目标，以至于留下了一个挥之不去的问题：为什么敦促斯洛伐克这个欧盟小国推进这个项目会这么困难，它在技术上很简单，但对乌克兰、对28国集团的信誉却极为重要。
Some cite legal and technical obstacles, others politics and fear of crossing the Kremlin, but all agree that a major obstacle has been the power and reach of Gazprom, which serves as a potent tool for advancing Russia’s economic and geopolitical interests, and is ultimately beholden to President Vladimir V. Putin.
一些人提到了法律及技术障碍，还有人则认为这与政治有关，斯洛伐克担心会激怒克里姆林宫，但他们都认为俄气公司的权势和影响力是一个主要障碍，俄气公司是增进俄罗斯经济及地缘政治利益的有效工具，从根本上是受惠于俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的。
Gazprom not only dominates the gas business across the former Soviet Union, but it also enjoys considerable clout inside the European Union, which gets roughly a third of its gas imports from Russia and is itself vulnerable to Russian pressure.
俄气公司不仅在前苏联地区天然气行业中占主导地位，它还在欧盟内部有相当大的影响力，欧盟约有三分之一的天然气供应来自俄罗斯，它本身就容易受到来自俄罗斯的压力的影响。
All the same, a fog of mystery surrounds the reluctance of Slovakia to open up its gas transit corridor — through which Russia pumps a large portion of its gas to Europe — for large reverse-flow deliveries to Ukraine.
尽管如此，斯洛伐克不愿开放天然气输送通道，向乌克兰进行大规模逆流输送的态度，仍令人感到不解，俄罗斯通过该通道向欧洲输送着大量天然气。
Built during the Soviet era to link Siberian gas fields with European markets, Slovak pipelines, according to Ukrainian officials and experts, could move up to 30 billion cubic meters of gas from Europe to Ukraine a year — more than all the gas Ukraine is expected to import from Russia this year.
据乌克兰官员及专家透露，斯洛伐克的管道修建于苏联时期，这条连接西伯利亚天然气田与欧洲市场的管道一年能够从欧洲向乌克兰输送多达300亿立方米的天然气，输送量多于乌克兰今年计划从俄罗斯获得的供应量。
Instead, the majority state-owned Slovak company that runs the system, Eustream, has offered only a small, long-disused subsidiary pipeline that still needs engineering work before it can carry gas to Ukraine. Once the work is finished in October, Eustream will provide just a tenth of the gas Ukraine has been looking for from Europe. The company says that small amount can be increased sharply later.
管道运营商Eustream是斯洛伐克一家由国家多数控股的公司，该公司只提供了一条长期废弃的小管道，还需要进一步施工后才能开始输送。今年10月完工后，该公司将向乌克兰提供天然气，供应量只占它希望从欧洲获得的供应量的十分之一。该公司称，小额供应量以后可以大幅增加。
Here in Chaslovtsy, in southwestern Ukraine, where technicians from Ukraine’s pipeline company, Ukrtransgaz, and Gazprom monitor the flow of Russian gas westward into Slovakia, the Ukrainian head of the facility, Vitaly Lukita, said he wondered if gas would ever flow the other way.
在乌克兰西南部的恰斯洛维特瑟，来自乌克兰管道公司乌克兰天然气运输公司(Ukrtransgaz)和俄气公司的技术人员对俄罗斯天然气的输送——向西输送至斯洛伐克——进行监控，乌克兰方面的负责人维塔利·卢基塔(Vitaly Lukita)表示，他不知道天然气的逆流输送有没有实现的那一天。
“We are all ready here, but I don’t know why the Slovaks are taking so long,” Mr. Lukita said. “Everyone has been talking about this for a very long time, but nothing has happened.”
“我们都准备好了，但我不知道斯洛伐克人为什么要花这么长时间，”卢基塔说。“大家讨论了很长时间，但没什么进展。”
Andriy Kobolev, the board chairman of Naftogaz, Ukraine’s state gas company, said he was particularly mystified by the recalcitrance of Eustream because in 2011 the company had put forward the idea of using spare capacity in its trunk pipelines for reverse-flow supplies to Ukraine.
乌克兰国有天然气公司（Naftogaz，简称乌气公司）董事长安德里·科博列夫(Andriy Kobolev)表示，Eustream的抗拒让他感到非常困惑，因为是该公司在2011年提出了利用管道干线中的剩余空间向乌克兰逆流输送天然气的想法。
He said the Slovaks had rejected this option in recent negotiations, citing secret contracts with Gazprom. He added that did not know what the problem was exactly, because he had not been allowed to see the contracts.
他说，这家斯洛伐克公司在最近的几次谈判中都拒绝这么做，理由是与俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司签订了秘密合同。他还说，由于自己未被允许阅读这些合同，他不知道究竟是什么原因。
Eustream executives declined repeated requests for interviews. Vahram Chuguryan, the company’s spokesman, declined to comment on the apparent change of heart or on whether it was related to an ownership reshuffle in early 2013, when a group of wealthy Czech and Slovak businesspeople purchased a 49 percent stake in Eustream. At the time, Czech news media speculated that they were acting as a stalking horse for Gazprom.
Eustream的高管们几次拒绝了采访请求。对于公司的这种明显的出尔反尔，公司发言人瓦朗丘古尔严(Vahram Chuguryan)拒绝评论，也拒绝谈论这是否与2013年初的一次所有权变更有关。当时，几名富有的捷克商人和斯洛伐克商人收购了Eustream49%的股份。捷克的新闻媒体那时猜测，这些商人是俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司派去的。
Ukraine’s dependence on Gazprom to heat homes and power factories — it buys more than half its supplies from Russia — has not only left the country vulnerable to sudden price changes, which fluctuate depending on whether Moscow wants to punish or favor authorities in Kiev, but has also helped fuel the rampant corruption that has addled successive Ukrainian governments.
乌克兰的居民家庭供暖以及电厂发电都依赖俄气公司，该国天然气供应的一半购自俄罗斯。这不仅让乌克兰容易受到价格突变的影响——价格变化一般取决于莫斯科对基辅当局的态度是惩罚还是支持，还导致历届乌克兰政府都无法避免的腐败问题越发猖獗。
When Gazprom hiked the price of gas to Ukraine by 80 percent last month and threatened to cut off supplies if Kiev didn’t pay up, Ukraine’s interim prime minister, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, blasted Moscow for “aggression against Ukraine.”
俄气公司上个月把对乌克兰的天然气价格提高了80%，并威胁减少供应，当时，乌克兰代总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)谴责了莫斯科“对乌克兰的侵略”。
“Apart from the Russian army and guns, they decided to use one of the most efficient tools, which are political and economic pressure,” he said.
“除了军队和枪支，俄罗斯还决定使用一种最有效的工具，那就是政治和经济压力，”他说。
Nearly all the gas Washington and Brussels would like to get moving into Ukraine from Europe originally came from Russia, which pumps gas westward across Ukraine, into Slovakia and then on to customers in Germany and elsewhere. Once the gas is sold, however, Gazprom ceases to be its owner and loses its power to set the terms of its sale.
华盛顿和布鲁塞尔想要输送到乌克兰的天然气几乎都来自俄罗斯。俄罗斯的天然气管道向西输送，途径乌克兰，进入斯洛伐克，然后输送给德国和其他地方的客户。一旦天然气被销售出去，俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司就不再对天然气拥有所有权，也就失去了为销售设定价格的权力。
All Ukraine really wants, said Mr. Kobolev, the chairman of Naftogaz, Gazprom’s biggest customer after Germany, is a “fair and transparent price” and a stable, uninterrupted supply.
乌气公司是俄气公司第二大客户，仅次于德国。公司董事长科博列夫说，乌克兰真正想要的，是“公平透明的价格”，和稳定、不间断的供应。
Russia is currently demanding $485 per thousand cubic meters for the gas Ukraine buys directly — instead of the price of $268 it offered the Ukrainian government under President Viktor F. Yanukovych before his ouster — while “Russian” gas sold via Europe, which should be more expensive because of additional transit fees, costs at least $100 per unit less.
俄罗斯目前对乌克兰直接购买天然气的价格是每1000立方米485美元，相比之下，在已被推翻的维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)政府时期为268美元。由于额外的运输费用，通过欧洲售出的“俄罗斯”天然气的价格理应更贵，但其每单位价格要比485美元的价格便宜至少100美元。
Russia denies using gas as a political weapon and says all Ukraine needs to do to secure a stable supply at a reasonable price is pay its bills on time and clear its debts, which Gazprom said total $3.5 billion.
俄罗斯否认自己把天然气作为一种政治武器，并表示，要想确保稳定的供应和合理的价格，乌克兰只需要按时付款，还清债务。俄罗斯天然气工业股份有限公司说，乌克兰的债务总额为35亿美元。
Ukraine has already started taking reverse-flow deliveries from Poland and Hungary. But the quantities, around 2 billion cubic meters last year, have been too small to make much of a difference. Only Slovakia has the pipeline capacity to change the balance of forces.
乌克兰已经开始采用从波兰和匈牙利逆流输送的天然气。但规模一直太小——去年大约20亿立方米，以至于没有明显效果。只有斯洛伐克拥有可以改变力量平衡的管线运输能力。
“We have been struggling for a long time to convince them to find a solution,” said Mr. Kobolev, the Ukrainian gas chief. “We have now identified the problem, which was obvious from the beginning — restrictions placed by Gazprom.” Ukraine’s energy minister, Yuri Prodan, dismissed Gazprom’s legal and technical arguments as a red herring. “I think the problem is political. We don’t see any real objective obstacles to what we have been proposing,” he said.
乌气公司高管科博列夫说，“长期以来，我们一直难以说服他们找到一个解决方案。我们现在找出了问题所在，这个问题从一开始就很明显——那就是俄气公司设置的重重限制。”乌克兰的能源部长尤里·普罗丹(Yuri Prodan)称，俄气公司在法律和技术上的申辩是混淆视听。“我认为这是政治问题。对于我们的提议，我们看不到任何真正的、客观的障碍。”
Alexander Medvedev, the head of Gazprom’s export arm, said he had no problem in principle with reverse-flow supplies to Ukraine but said such arrangements “require the agreement of all parties involved,” including Gazprom.
俄气公司出口部门负责人亚历山大·梅德韦杰夫(Alexander Medvedev)说，对于逆流输送天然气到乌克兰，他原则上并不反对，但表示，这样的安排“需要相关各方达成一致”，其中包括俄气公司。