SEVASTOPOL, Crimea — Bowing to the reality of the Russian military occupation of Crimea a day after Russia announced it was annexing the disputed peninsula, the Ukrainian government said on Wednesday that it had drawn up plans to evacuate all of its military personnel and their families and was prepared to relocate as many as 25,000 of them to mainland Ukraine.
克里米亚塞瓦斯托波尔——周三，在俄罗斯宣布吞并克里米亚之后的一天，乌克兰政府接受了俄罗斯军事占领这个争议半岛的现实，并且表示，乌克兰政府已经制定计划，准备撤出所有乌克兰军事人员及其家属，将多达2.5万名人员重新安置到乌克兰大陆。
Thousands of Ukrainian soldiers and sailors have been trapped on bases and other installations here for more than two weeks, surrounded by heavily armed Russian forces and loosely organized local militia.
数千名乌克兰士兵和水兵被困在克里米亚的军事基地及其他设施当中，时间已经超过两周，包围他们的是全副武装的俄罗斯部队及组织松散的当地民兵。
While the provisional government in Kiev has insisted that Russia’s annexation of Crimea is illegal and has appealed to international supporters for help, the evacuation announcement by the head of the national security council, Andriy Parubiy, effectively amounted to a surrender of Crimea, at least from a military standpoint.
基辅的临时政府坚称俄罗斯吞并克里米亚是非法行为，并呼吁国际支持者提供帮助，然而，国家安全委员会主席安德里·帕鲁比(Andriy Parubiy)宣布撤出人员，等于是放弃了克里米亚，至少从军事角度来看是如此。
It came hours after militiamen, backed by Russian forces, seized the headquarters of the Ukrainian Navy in Sevastopol and detained its commander, in what appeared to be the start of a concerted effort to oust the Ukrainian armed forces from outposts throughout the peninsula.
获得俄罗斯部队支持的民兵攻占了乌克兰海军位于塞瓦斯托波尔的总部，并且扣押了海军司令，此举似乎标志着俄罗斯与克里米亚合力将乌克兰武装部队赶出半岛各基地的开始。几个小时后，帕鲁比宣布了撤出计划。
Officers of Russia’s Black Sea Fleet, which is also headquartered here, later entered the base through its main gates as Ukrainian military personnel streamed out carrying clothing and other personal belongings.
俄罗斯黑海舰队(Black Sea Fleet)的军官后来通过正门进入基地，与此同时，乌克兰军事人员带着衣服及其他个人物品离开了基地。黑海舰队的总部也在塞瓦斯托波尔。
In Kiev, the provisional government also said that it would quit the Commonwealth of Independence States, the group of former Soviet republics, and that it was considering imposing visa requirements on Russian citizens — a step that would potentially create huge inconveniences for Ukrainians as well, in the likely event that Russia reciprocated.
在基辅，临时政府还表示，乌克兰将退出由前苏联共和国组成的独立国家联合体(Commonwealth of Independence States)，并考虑要求俄罗斯公民办理签证。此举可能也会对乌克兰人造成极大的不便，因为俄罗斯可能会以牙还牙。
Russia did not flinch. Outside Moscow, President Vladimir V. Putin opened a meeting of senior government ministers by demanding updates on the transportation and infrastructure in Crimea. Mr. Putin ordered that the government move swiftly to begin construction of a bridge that would provide an overland link for cars and trains directly between Crimea and Russia. At present, no such link exists.
俄罗斯没有退缩。在莫斯科城外，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)召开了高级政府部长会议，一上来就要求更新克里米亚的交通和其他基础设施。普京下达命令，要求政府快速行动，开始建设一座桥梁，该桥梁将提供陆路交通渠道，使汽车和火车得以在克里米亚与俄罗斯之间直接通行。目前并不存在此类交通渠道。
The takeover of the base proceeded as anger intensified in the West over Russia’s move to annex Crimea, with calls for Russia’s expulsion from important international bodies like the G-8 grouping of leading economic powers. At the same time, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. continued his effort to reassure American allies in the Baltic region, once part of the Soviet Union, that the United States would protect them from any aggression by Russia.
俄罗斯接管前述克里米亚基地时，西方国家对俄罗斯吞并克里米亚的举措的愤怒情绪已经加剧，要求将俄罗斯赶出重要的国际组织，比如由主要经济大国组成的八国集团。与此同时，美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)继续开展工作，安抚美国在波罗的海地区的盟友，称美国会保护他们不受俄罗斯的侵略。该地区曾是苏联的一部分。
The United Nations said Wednesday that Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general, would travel to Moscow and Kiev on Thursday and Friday for meetings with leaders, including Mr. Putin, whose moves to reclaim Crimea have set off the biggest crisis in East-West relations since the Soviet Union’s demise two decades ago.
联合国周三表示，联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)将于周四和周五前往莫斯科和基辅，与普京等领导人举行会晤。普京收回克里米亚的举动已引发了自20年前苏联解体以来东西方关系的最大危机。
Mr. Ban has expressed disappointment over the Kremlin-backed weekend referendum in Crimea that created the basis for Russia’s annexation, but he has said nothing about whether he considers the Russian step to be illegal. The United States and other Western members of the Security Council proposed a resolution on Saturday declaring the referendum illegal, but Russia, acting alone, vetoed that measure.
上周末，克里米亚在克里姆林宫支持下举行了公投，为俄罗斯的吞并行动奠定了基础。潘基文对公投表示了失望，但没有说明他是否认为俄罗斯的举措是非法行为。上周六，美国及安理会中的其他西方国家提出了一项宣布公投违法的决议，但俄罗斯单独否决了这项决议。
At the Ukrainian naval headquarters here, soldiers with machine guns, wearing green camouflage but still no identifying insignia, were deployed in and around the base. A large military truck just outside the base bore the black-and-white license plates of the Russian forces.
在此地的乌克兰海军司令部，基地内部及周围都部署了挎着冲锋枪、身着绿色迷彩服的军人，但这些军人依然没有佩戴标明身份的标志。基地门外停着一辆巨大的军车，上面挂着黑白两色的俄军车牌。
Although the gates were forced open during the initial storming of the base, there were no reports of shooting or injuries. And while there was no indication that the Ukrainian government was prepared to issue a formal surrender in Crimea, capitulation by military units surrounded throughout the peninsula seemed increasingly inevitable.
这些人在发起进攻的初期强行打开了基地的大门，不过，并没有出现开火或人员受伤的报道。没有迹象表明乌克兰政府准备发布克里米亚乌军正式投降的消息，然而，在半岛各处深陷重围的乌克兰部队宣布投降的结局似乎越来越不可避免。
When asked why they did not return fire, one Ukrainian soldier leaving the base here said, “We had no order and no weapons.” Another said, “We met them empty-handed.”
被问及为什么不发起反击时，一名正在离开塞瓦斯托波尔基地的乌克兰士兵说，“我们没接到命令，也没有武器。”另一名士兵说，“他们来的时候，我们两手空空。”
On Tuesday evening, after reports that a shooting at another military installation, not far from the Crimean capital of Simferopol, had left at least one Ukrainian soldier dead, the Ukrainian Defense Ministry in Kiev issued a statement saying its troops had been authorized to use force to defend themselves.
周二晚，有报道称克里米亚首府辛菲罗波尔附近的一处军事设施发生了枪战，至少有一名乌克兰军人在枪战中身亡，随后，乌克兰国防部在基辅发布了一则声明，称乌军已获得武力自卫的授权。