MOSCOW — The simmering standoff in eastern Ukraine exploded into warfare early Tuesday, pushing the conflict to a dangerous new phase and prompting President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to warn again that he reserves the right to use force to defend Russian-speaking citizens.
莫斯科——周二凌晨，乌克兰东部逐渐升温的僵持演变成战争，将这场冲突推向了一个危险的新阶段，并促使俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)再次警告称，自己保留以武力保护讲俄语的民众的权利。
Government forces unleashed ground assaults and air bombardments throughout the region, including heavy artillery shelling around the rebel-controlled city of Slovyansk and pitched battles for control of administrative buildings in Donetsk. The attacks began shortly after President Petro O. Poroshenko declared an end to a 10-day cease-fire and ordered government forces to renew their effort to quash a pro-Russian separatist insurrection in the east.
政府军在整个地区发起了地面攻击和空中轰炸，在反叛者控制的斯洛夫扬斯克市周围开展了重型火炮轰击，也为控制顿涅茨克的政府大楼而进行了激战。乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O.Poroshenko)宣布终结为期10天的停火，并下令政府军继续镇压东部亲俄分离主义叛乱之后不久，攻击就开始了。
The recharged government offensive followed two days of conference calls with the leaders of Russia, France and Germany that failed to yield concrete steps toward a peace agreement, and came as Mr. Poroshenko accused Mr. Putin of talking about peace while arming and encouraging the separatists.
政府军再度发起进攻前，波罗申科与俄罗斯、法国和德国的领导人举行了两天的电话会议，但会议未能制定出达成和平协议的具体步骤。政府军发起攻击之时，波罗申科还谴责普京一边谈论和平，一边武装和鼓动分离主义者。
Ukraine has been in turmoil since December, when its former president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, spurned a trade deal with the European Union in favor of a $15 billion loan and other concessions from Russia. Mr. Yanukovych was driven from office in the ensuing demonstrations, and after Mr. Putin seized Crimea in March the separatist rebellion began brewing in the east, which has historically close ties with Russia.
去年12月前任总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)拒绝与欧盟(European Union)签署一项贸易协定，而是选择了俄罗斯提供的150亿美元（约合930亿元人民币）贷款及其他一些优惠措施，之后乌克兰就一直处在混乱中，亚努科维奇也在随后的抗议中被赶下台。普京3月夺取克里米亚后，分离主义叛乱就开始在东部酝酿。在历史上，乌克兰东部与俄罗斯关系密切。
While President Obama and European leaders have joined Ukraine in accusing Moscow of creating and sustaining the rebellion in eastern Ukraine, Mr. Putin blamed the West for the troubles there and talked broadly about protecting Russians outside the country’s borders.
尽管奥巴马总统和欧洲领导人，与乌克兰一道谴责俄罗斯在乌克兰东部制造和维持叛乱，但普京却指责西方应为那里的混乱负责，并曾泛泛地谈到，将会保护国外的俄罗斯人。
“I would like to make it clear to all: This country will continue to actively defend the rights of Russians, our compatriots abroad, using the entire range of available means — from political and economic to operations under international humanitarian law and the right of self-defense,” Mr. Putin said.
普京说，“我想向所有人讲清楚：这个国家将继续利用一切可用的手段——从政治和经济，到符合国际人道主义法律的行动，再到自卫权——来积极捍卫俄罗斯人，我们在国外的同胞的权利。”
In the speech, the Russian president chastised Mr. Poroshenko for ending the cease-fire and urged renewed peace negotiations. But Mr. Putin also described the economic sanctions against Russia by the United States and its allies as “blackmail” and said the West had precipitated the conflict in Ukraine by blithely ignoring Russia’s interests for years.
俄罗斯总统在讲话中斥责波罗申科结束停火，并敦促继续开展和平谈判。但同时，普京称美国及其盟友对俄罗斯的经济制裁是“敲诈”，并表示西方因为多年来漫不经心地无视俄罗斯的利益，而引发了乌克兰的冲突。
At least 27 Ukrainian soldiers had been killed in clashes with rebels since Mr. Poroshenko announced the unilateral cease-fire on June 20, putting heavy political pressure on him to resume military action and cut off negotiations with the rebels, viewed as terrorists by many Ukrainians. Even some supporters of Mr. Poroshenko disapproved of his discussions with Mr. Putin, who is widely reviled after the invasion and annexation of Crimea earlier this year.
自波罗申科6月20日宣布单方面停火以来，已经至少有27名乌克兰士兵在与反叛武装的冲突中丧生。这给波罗申科带来了巨大的政治压力，要继续采取军事行动，停止与反叛者的谈判。许多乌克兰人认为反叛者是恐怖分子。就连波罗申科的部分支持者也不赞成他与普京谈判。在今年早些时候入侵并吞并克里米亚后，普京广受非议。
European leaders issued an ultimatum to Russia last week, demanding it do more to end the violence caused by the separatists. But attacks on government forces had continued, and with a Monday deadline passing with no progress toward a peace deal and no indication that the Europeans were prepared to move ahead with new sanctions, Mr. Poroshenko decided to end the cease-fire.
上周，欧洲领导人向俄罗斯发出了最后通牒，要求俄罗斯为结束分离派造成的暴力做出更多努力。但对政府军的攻击依然在继续，而且通牒的最后期限周一已经过去，并未出现以和平协议为方向的进展，也没有迹象表明欧洲准备继续实施新的制裁。于是，波罗申科决定结束停火。
There were reports of heavy shooting and bombardments all across eastern Ukraine on Tuesday, including civilian casualties. Gunfire cracked in the center of the regional capital of Donetsk, where rebels and government forces fought for control of the Interior Ministry headquarters and a police building came under attack by the separatists.
有报道称，本周二，乌克兰东部各地均发生了激烈的枪击和炮击，还出现了平民伤亡。在顿涅茨克州首府的中心地带爆发了枪战，叛军和政府军为争夺内政部大楼，以及一栋被分裂分子攻击的警察大楼的控制权而激战。
In the city of Kramatorsk, to the north, four people were killed when a minibus came under artillery fire, Ukrainian news agencies reported.
据乌克兰新闻机构报道，在北部城市克拉马托尔斯克，有四人因一辆面包车受到炮火袭击而身亡。
In a significant victory for the government, Ukrainian forces retook control of a checkpoint at Dolzhanksy, in the Lugansk region, one of three important border crossings with Russia that had been seized by rebels. European leaders demanded on Friday that the crossings be surrendered to the Ukrainian authorities.
乌克兰政府军取得了一场重大胜利，重新控制了卢甘斯克州多尔然克斯(Dolzhanksy)的一个检查站。它是通往俄罗斯的三个重要边境检查站中的一个，此前被叛军占领。上周五，欧洲领导人要求叛军向乌克兰当局交出这座检查站的控制权。
Mr. Poroshenko issued a statement congratulating his troops for reclaiming the border checkpoint. Ukrainian officials said troops had cleared 20 explosive devices that had been set at the border post, and another 15 from surrounding roads.
波罗申科发表了一则声明，庆贺乌军重新夺取了这座边境检查站。乌克兰官员表示，乌军已经清理了被安放在边境哨所里的20枚爆炸装置和周围公路上的15枚爆炸装置。
As the fighting intensified, officials said that there were scattered interruptions of bus and train service across the region.
官员们说，随着战斗加剧，跨境公交和火车交通偶尔出现了中断。
Overnight, there were reports that two explosions damaged railroad lines in the east. A television tower serving the besieged city of Slovyansk was destroyed by artillery fire. Photographs posted on the Internet showed the metal lattice of the tower reduced to a tangled pile of rubble.
有报道称，夜间的两起爆炸破坏了东部地区的铁路线。炮火摧毁了一座给被围困的城市斯洛夫扬斯克提供服务的电视塔，网上贴出的照片显示，电视塔的金属网化成了一堆乱糟糟的碎片。
Mr. Poroshenko issued a statement congratulating his troops for reclaiming the border checkpoint. Ukrainian officials said troops had cleared 20 explosive devices that had been set at the border post, and 15 more from surrounding roads.
乌克兰政府的许多支持者纷纷为当局重启军事行动而叫好，世界政策研究所(World Policy Institute)所长阿廖娜·盖特曼丘克(Alyona Getmanchuk)表示，虽然不断有士兵被杀害，波罗申科依然在进行漫漫无期的和平谈判，他没能履行自己竞选时许下的承诺——不和恐怖分子谈判、迅速平息叛乱。
The resumption of military operations was cheered by many supporters of the Ukraine government. In Kiev, Alyona Getmanchuk, the director of the Institute of World Policy, a research organization, said that by engaging in protracted peace talks even as soldiers continued to be killed, Mr. Poroshenko had failed to live up to campaign promises that he would not negotiate with terrorists and that he would swiftly crush the insurrection.
盖特曼丘克在一次采访中说，“他是以危机管理者，而非外交家的身份当选的。早在选举前，他就说反恐行动应当持续几个小时，而不是数月或数周。人们喜欢这种说法，认为他会坚决果断地在两三天内，至多是几周内把问题给解决掉。”
“He was elected as a crisis manager, not as a diplomat, and even before elections he said that antiterror operations should last hours, not days or months or weeks,” Ms. Getmanchuk said in an interview. “People liked it and people thought he would be very decisive and he would resolve the problem within a couple of days, maximum weeks.”
周二，普京在莫斯科对外交官发表讲话时说，在周一的电话会议上，他和其他领导人曾设法劝说波罗申科继续实行停火，不过波罗申科选择了战争而非和平，现在，这个后果要由他个人承担。
Mr. Putin, in a speech to diplomats in Moscow on Tuesday, said that he and other leaders had sought to persuade Mr. Poroshenko to continue the cease-fire during the conference call on Monday, but that the Ukrainian leader had chosen war over peace and would now bear personal responsibility for the outcome.
普京重申了他的誓言，称无论讲俄语的民众居住在哪里，都会给予保护。他没有发出要即刻采取任何军事行动的威胁，也没有像其他局势紧张的事件中所做的那样，宣布要在乌克兰边境重新部署俄军。
While Mr. Putin reiterated his pledge to defend Russian-speaking people wherever they live, he did not threaten any imminent military action or announce any redeployment of Russian forces along the Ukrainian border, as he has in other instances when tensions flared.
普京说，“不幸的是，波罗申科总统已经下决心恢复军事行动。我们失败了——当我说‘我们’时，我指的我的欧洲同僚和我自己——我们没能劝说他相信，要想走向安全稳固、无法破坏的和平，不能靠战争铺路。”