BERLIN — “Really Pretty Stupid” was the headline chosen by the august Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung on Friday to describe an editorial on the latest eruption between the United States and Europe, this time over who should take the lead in trying to calm the crisis in Ukraine, and how to do it.
柏林——“真的很愚蠢”是严肃报纸《法兰克福汇报》(Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung)为周五的一篇社论选择的标题，这篇社论描述了美国和欧洲之间最近突然爆发的口水战，这一次的焦点是，在设法平息乌克兰危机的行动上，谁应发挥领导作用，以及该怎样发挥。
The headline spoke to the tensions that flared this week over the release of a recording in which a top American diplomat disparaged the European Union’s efforts in Ukraine. On Friday, a second recording surfaced in which European diplomats complained about the Americans.
这个标题显示了本周因一段录音公布而出现的紧张局面，在录音中，一名美国高级外交官贬斥了欧盟在乌克兰所做的一些努力。周五，第二段录音出现了，欧洲外交官在录音里对美国人大加抱怨。
But it was also a reflection of the disarray that has marked much of the West’s dealings with Ukraine since late November, when President Viktor F. Yanukovych spurned a pact with the European Union. He then turned to Russia for a $15 billion aid package that the Kremlin has since suspended because of continuing antigovernment protests in Kiev, the capital.
自去年11月末，总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)拒绝和欧盟签署一项协议以来，西方与乌克兰的许多往来沟通就呈现出无序的特征，而这个标题也反映出了这一状态。亚努科维奇后来转而求助俄罗斯，接受了后者提供的150亿美元（约合910亿元人民币）的援助计划，但由于乌克兰首都基辅持续发生反政府抗议，俄方已暂时搁置了该计划。
Ever since Ukraine became independent as the Soviet Union crumbled in 1991, the United States and Europe have had different aims for the country, a large, troubled nation of 45 million whose very name means “on the edge.”
自从苏联在1991年解体，乌克兰独立以来，美国和欧洲就对它抱有不同的目的，这个有着4500万人口、幅员辽阔、问题缠身的国家，其国名的字面意思就是“在边缘”。
With strategic considerations uppermost in American diplomacy, the United States helped, for instance, to rid Ukraine of old Soviet nuclear weapons. Europe, meanwhile, saw opportunities for trade.
美国的外交政策以战略考量为最高目标，例如，美国帮助乌克兰销毁了前苏联的核武器。而与此同时，欧洲则看到了开展贸易的机会。
As the European Union expanded eastward with the inclusion of Poland and Romania, the perception grew that neighboring Ukraine needed formal ties to regulate commerce and legal systems to facilitate the growing cross-border transactions. In 2012, Poland and Ukraine were even joint hosts of the continent’s premier sports event, the European soccer championship.
随着欧盟东扩，把波兰和罗马尼亚纳入其中，有一种观念在增强，那就是邻近的乌克兰需要和欧盟建立正式关系，以规范国内的商业和司法体系，促进跨境贸易的发展。2012年，波兰和乌克兰甚至联合举办了欧洲大陆的顶级体育盛会——欧洲足球锦标赛。
Russia, which has centuries of shared history with Ukraine and under Vladimir V. Putin has grown ever more painfully conscious of its loss of Soviet empire, looked on with mounting suspicion, and now seems to be intent on exploiting Western disarray.
俄罗斯和乌克兰有一段长达数世纪的共有历史，在弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)治下，俄罗斯甚至更加痛苦地意识到，苏维埃帝国已不复存在，俄罗斯带着逐渐加深的疑虑旁观着乌克兰的局势，现在，它似乎决心要利用西方在处理乌克兰问题上的混乱局面。
The release of the recordings has further roiled the waters. In the first one, posted anonymously on YouTube, Victoria Nuland, the American assistant secretary of state for European affairs, profanely dismissed European efforts in Ukraine as weak and inadequate to the challenge posed by the Kremlin.
录音的公布让局势进一步混乱。在YouTube上匿名上传的第一段视频中，负责欧洲事务的美国助理国务卿维多利亚·纽兰(Victoria Nuland)以不敬的言辞指责欧洲在乌克兰所做的努力软弱无力，不足以应对俄罗斯带来的挑战。
On Friday, a second recording was posted that featured a senior German diplomat, Helga Schmid, complaining in her native tongue to the European Union envoy in Kiev about “unfair” American criticism of Europe’s diplomacy.
周五，第二段录音被上传至网络，其中德国高级外交官黑尔加·施密德(Helga Schmid)以母语向欧盟驻基辅特使抱怨，说美国对欧洲外交政策的指责是“不公平的”。
“We are not in a race to be the strongest,” retorted the envoy, Jan Tombinski, a Pole. “We have good instruments” for dealing with the crisis.
这位特使、波兰人扬·通宾斯基(Jan Tombinski)反驳说，“我们不是在参加谁最强的比赛。”在危机的处理上，“我们是有上佳手段的”。
Yes, replied Ms. Schmid, but journalists were telling European officials that the Americans were running around saying the Europeans were weak. So she advised Mr. Tombinski to have a word with the United States ambassador to Ukraine, Geoffrey Pyatt, the man whom Ms. Nuland was talking to in her recorded conversation.
施密德回答说，没错，然而记者们却正在对欧洲官员说，美国人在四处宣扬，说欧洲人十分软弱。所以她建议通宾斯基和美国驻乌克兰大使杰弗里·派亚特(Geoffrey Pyatt)谈一谈，后者正是在录音里和纽兰交谈的那个人。
While the Obama administration accused the Russians of making mischief by recording and then posting the Nuland conversation, neither the European Union nor Germany blamed the Kremlin for the second recording.
虽然奥巴马政府指责俄罗斯人先录音，又上传纽兰的谈话来搬弄是非，但欧盟或德国都没有因第二段录音而指责俄罗斯。
Illustrating how testy relations with Washington have become, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, earlier the target of American monitoring of her cellphone, issued an unusually sharp statement saying that Ms. Nuland’s remarks were “completely unacceptable.”
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)发布了一份措辞极其严厉的声明，说纽兰的言辞“完全不可接受”，她的声明显示了德国和美国的关系已变得如此一触即发。早些时候，默克尔的手机曾是美国监听的对象。
Germany, as befits its status as Europe’s largest economy and a country with centuries of dealings with lands to its East, has been heavily involved in the crisis over Ukraine. In a speech to the German Parliament on Nov. 18, Ms. Merkel, herself raised in Communist East Germany, emphasized that the Cold War should be over for everyone, including countries once allied with Russia but now independent. She made a forceful case for Ukraine to sign the European pact.
欧盟一直深入地参与了乌克兰的危机处理，这一点和它身为欧洲最大经济体的地位相符，和它与东部邻国有着多少世纪往来的历史也相符。在去年11月18日对德国议会发表的演讲中，在信奉共产主义的东德长大的默克尔强调，对所有国家而言，冷战(Cold War)应该已经结束了，其中包括那些曾和俄罗斯结盟但现已独立的国家。她为乌克兰签署欧洲协议提出了有力的理由。
Julianne Smith, a former national security aide to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. who is now at the Center for a New American Security, said there was a structural tension between the European Union and the United States because the Americans can speak with one voice and grow impatient waiting for decisions from a union with many voices.
美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)的前国家安全助理、现在新美国安全中心(Center for a New American Security)任职的茱莉安·史密斯(Julianne Smith)说，欧盟和美国之间存在一种根本性的紧张关系，原因是美国人能发表口径统一的见解，却没有耐心等待意见众多的欧盟做决定。
“They all have different sovereign issues, different threat perceptions, different priorities,” she said. “As a result, there has always been this longstanding deep frustration on the part of the United States with the inability to get quick answers, quick responses and broker some sort of U.S.-E.U. agreement on whatever the issue of the day might be.”
她说，“欧盟各国都有不同的主权问题、不同的威胁理念、不同的工作重点。结果，不论当日的议题会是什么，美方总是无法迅速得到答案和回应，总是无法达成某种美国和欧盟间的协议，美国为此而长期深感挫败。”
The back-and-forth this week illustrates how many interests are a part of the mix in Ukraine — a mix that Western diplomats seem unable to keep free of their own differences.
本周这种你来我往的交锋，诠释了乌克兰问题牵扯了多少的利益，而在这一问题上，西方外交官们看来也无法杜绝分歧。
In the editorial with the headline “Really Pretty Stupid,” Klaus-Dieter Frankenberger, the newspaper’s foreign editor, noted how the latest issue had been stoked by months of “bad blood” with Washington. “You can certainly criticize some parts of European policy toward Ukraine, but it is not as if American diplomacy has found the font of all wisdom. In fact, they can’t think of anything more than a few mini-sanctions against the regime in Kiev.”
在题为“真的很愚蠢”的社论中，该报的国际新闻编辑克劳斯-迪特尔·弗兰肯贝格尔(Klaus-Dieter Frankenberger)指出了持续数月对华盛顿的“恶感”是如何挑起最近的问题的。“你当然可以指责欧洲针对乌克兰的一些政策，不过，这并不是说，好像美国的外交政策就找到诀窍了。实际上，除了几项反对基辅现政权的小型制裁手段外，他们什么别的辙都想不出来。”