KIEV, Ukraine — For two weeks, the mysteriously well-armed, professional gunmen known as “green men” have seized Ukrainian government sites in town after town, igniting a brush fire of separatist unrest across eastern Ukraine. Strenuous denials from the Kremlin have closely followed each accusation by Ukrainian officials that the world was witnessing a stealthy invasion by Russian forces.
乌克兰基辅——两周以来，被称为“绿衣人”的武装人员在乌克兰东部的一座又一座城市夺取了当地的政府设施，搅动起了分离主义示威活动。令人惊奇的是，这些人员装备精良、手法专业。每当有乌克兰官员指出，全世界都在目睹的事件其实是俄罗斯军队的秘密侵略，克里姆林宫就会紧随其后极力否认。
Now, photographs and descriptions from eastern Ukraine endorsed by the Obama administration on Sunday suggest that many of the green men are indeed Russian military and intelligence forces — equipped in the same fashion as Russian special operations troops involved in annexing the Crimea region in February. Some of the men photographed in Ukraine have been identified in other photos clearly taken among Russian troops in other settings.
现在，来自乌克兰东部的照片和描述在周日得到了奥巴马政府的认可，它们显示，上述绿衣人有许多的确是俄罗斯军人及情报人员，他们的装备与今年2月吞并克里米亚地区的俄罗斯特种部队士兵相同。一些在乌克兰被拍到的人，也被发现出现在了显然是从其他场景拍到的俄罗斯部队的照片里。
And Ukraine’s state security service has identified one Russian reported to be active among the green men as Igor Ivanovich Strelkov, a Russian military intelligence operative in his mid- to late 50s. He is said to have a long résumé of undercover service with the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Russian general staff, most recently in Crimea in February and March and now in and around the eastern Ukrainian city of Slovyansk.
乌克兰国家安全部门确定身份的一名俄罗斯人，据报道名叫伊戈尔·伊凡诺维奇·斯特雷科夫(Igor Ivanovich Strelkov)，是俄罗斯军方情报机构的特工，现年55至60岁。据传他曾长期服务于俄罗斯总参谋部的情报部(Main Intelligence Directorate)，从事秘密工作。他最近曾在今年2月和3月现身克里米亚，之后又在乌克兰城市斯洛夫扬斯克出现。
“There has been broad unity in the international community about the connection between Russia and some of the armed militants in eastern Ukraine, and the photos presented by the Ukrainians last week only further confirm this, which is why U.S. officials have continued to make that case,” Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman, said Sunday.
“国际社会存在广泛的共识，认为俄罗斯与乌克兰东部的一些武装分子有关。上周乌克兰提供的照片进一步证明了这一点，美国官员一直这样表态也正是因为如此，”美国国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)周日表示。
The question of Russia’s role in eastern Ukraine has a critical bearing on the agreement reached Thursday in Geneva among Russian, Ukrainian, American and European diplomats to ease the crisis. American officials have said that Russia would be held responsible for ensuring that the Ukrainian government buildings were vacated, and that it could face new sanctions if the terms were not met.
俄罗斯在乌克兰东部所扮演的角色引发的疑问，对俄罗斯、乌克兰、美国和欧洲外交官上周四在日内瓦达成的协议有关键的影响。美国官员表示，俄罗斯应当负起责任，让那些人从乌克兰政府建筑中撤出，还说如果俄罗斯不满足条件就会受到新的制裁。
The Kremlin insists that Russian forces are in no way involved, and that Mr. Strelkov does not even exist, at least not as a Russian operative sent to Ukraine with orders to stir up trouble. “It’s all nonsense,” President Vladimir V. Putin said Thursday during a four-hour question-and-answer session on Russian television. “There are no Russian units, special services or instructors in the east of Ukraine.” Pro-Russian activists who have seized government buildings in at least 10 towns across eastern Ukraine also deny getting help from professional Russian soldiers or intelligence agents.
克里姆林宫坚称俄罗斯并没有以任何方式介入其中，甚至说斯特雷科夫这个人并不存在，至少不是作为俄罗斯特工遵从命令派到乌克兰滋事的。“一派胡言，”俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)上周四在俄罗斯电视上一次长达四小时的问答节目中说。“乌克兰东部没有俄罗斯作战单位、特种部队或教官。”已在乌克兰东部至少10个城镇夺取政府大楼的亲俄罗斯活动人士，也否认得到了俄罗斯职业军人或专业情报人员的帮助。
But masking the identity of its forces, and clouding the possibilities for international denunciation, is a central part of the Russian strategy, developed over years of conflict in the former Soviet sphere, Ukrainian and American officials say.
但乌克兰和美国官员表示，隐藏其武装部队的身份，进而减小国际社会发出谴责的可能性，是俄罗斯多年来在前苏联地区发生冲突时形成的策略的一个核心手段。
John R. Schindler, a former National Security Agency counterintelligence officer who now teaches at the Naval War College, calls it “special war” — “an amalgam of espionage, subversion, even forms of terrorism to attain political ends without actually going to war in any conventional sense.”
美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)前反情报官员约翰·R·辛德勒(John R. Schindler)现在在海军战争学院(Naval War College)任教。辛德勒称，这是一种“特种战争”(special war)——“为了达到政治目的，混合运用了谍报、颠覆，甚至某种形式的恐怖主义，而不是在任何常规意义上真正发动战争。”
And one country, Mr. Schindler noted in an article last year in which he coined the term, that particularly excels at special war is Russia, which carried out its first post-Soviet war to regain control of rebellious Chechnya back in 1994 by sending in a column of armored vehicles filled with Russian soldiers masquerading as pro-Moscow Chechens.
辛德勒在去年发表的一篇文章首次运用了“特种战争”一词。他在文中提到，有一个国家特别擅长特种战争，那就是俄罗斯。在1994年为了重新控制寻求分离的车臣，俄罗斯发动了苏联解体以后的第一场战争，将一只装甲车部队派往车臣，车里面装满了乔装成亲莫斯科的车臣人的俄罗斯士兵。
Russia’s flare for “maskirovka” — disguised warfare — has become even more evident under Mr. Putin, a former K.G.B. officer whose closest advisers are mostly from that same Soviet intelligence agency.
在普京任内，俄罗斯实行“伪装战争”(maskirovka)的趋势变得更加明显。普京曾是克格勃(KGB)特工，而与他关系最紧密的顾问也大多出自同一个苏联情报机关。
More direct evidence of a Russian hand in eastern Ukraine is contained in a dossier of photographs provided by Ukraine to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, a Vienna-based organization now monitoring the situation in Donetsk and other parts of the country. It features pictures taken in eastern Ukraine of unidentified gunmen and an earlier photograph of what looks like the same men appearing in a group shot of a Russian military unit in Russia.
乌克兰向欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)提交的照片资料中，给出了俄罗斯插手乌克兰东部局势的更多直接证据。总部位于维也纳的欧安组织目前正在监控顿涅茨克及乌克兰其他区域的局势。卷宗中展示了在乌克兰东部拍摄的未确认身份的武装人员，以及较早前在俄罗斯拍摄的一幅俄军集体照，前述武装人员似乎出现在了后面的集体照中。
One set of photographs shows what appears to be the same gunman in pictures taken in the Crimean annexation and more recently in Slovyansk. Another features a portly bearded man photographed in Slovyansk on April 14, wearing a camouflage uniform without insignia, but six years earlier, had been photographed during Russia’s invasion of Georgia with a Russian special forces patch on his left arm.
一组照片则显示，在吞并克里米亚时拍到的照片中的武装人员，似乎也同样出现在了后来在斯洛夫扬斯克拍摄的照片里。另一组照片显示，一名身体发福、蓄着胡须的男子出现了4月14日在斯洛夫扬斯克拍摄的照片中，当时他身穿迷彩服，但没有徽章。然而六年前，此人出现在了俄罗斯入侵格鲁吉亚时拍摄的照片里，当时他左臂上佩戴着俄罗斯特种部队的徽章。
Another character in Ukraine’s case against Russia is Mr. Strelkov, the alleged military intelligence officer who Kiev says took part in a furtive Russian operation to prepare for the annexation of Crimea and, more recently, in insurgent action in Slovyansk.
乌克兰提交的资料中显示的另一个人物就是据称系军方情报人员的斯特雷科夫。基辅方面表示，此人参加了俄军为吞并克里米亚做准备的一项秘密行动，后来他也参加了斯洛夫扬斯克的反叛行动。
No photographs have yet emerged of Mr. Strelkov, but the Security Service of Ukraine, the successor organization to what used to be Ukraine’s local branch of the K.G.B., has released a sketch of what it says is his face.
斯特雷科夫的照片尚未出现，但乌克兰国家安全局（Security Service of Ukraine，乌克兰语简称SBU）公布了一份据称是该人面容的素描图。SBU的前身是克格勃在乌克兰的本地分支机构。
The security agency, known by its Ukrainian abbreviation SBU, first identified him publicly early last week after releasing an audio recording of what it said was a recording of an intercepted communication between Russian operatives in eastern Ukraine and their controller back in Russia.
SBU上周早些时候公开确认了他的身份。SBU在此之前还公布了一段录音，据称是乌克兰东部的俄罗斯情报人员与在俄罗斯的指挥官之间通话时，监听到的录音。