SLOVYANSK, Ukraine — Pro-Russian militants in eastern Ukraine vowed on Thursday to press ahead with a referendum seeking autonomy, a risky move that seemed to defy their political patron, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, whose motives in urging a delay in the vote came under furious attack by officials in Kiev.
乌克兰斯洛夫扬斯克——周四，乌克兰东部的亲俄激进分子宣称要继续推行公投寻求自治，这个冒险举动似乎有悖于其政治后台——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的意愿。在基辅官员的猛烈抨击下，普京呼吁推迟投票。
A day after Mr. Putin scrambled the political landscape by suggesting the vote be put off, militant leaders in Donetsk, Lugansk and Slovyansk said they would go ahead on Sunday as scheduled. Far from mollified by Mr. Putin’s new stance, Ukrainian officials expressed deep suspicions, accusing him of trying to replay events preceding Russia’s annexation of Crimea.
普京推迟投票的建议搅乱了政治局势。一天后，顿涅茨克、卢甘斯克、斯洛夫扬斯克的激进派领导人物表示，他们将按原计划在周日举行公投。普京的新立场并没有平息乌克兰官员的不满，他们对普京的立场深表怀疑，指责普京是在试图重复俄罗斯吞并克里米亚之前的把戏。
Although the ability of separatists to stage a legitimate ballot is highly in doubt, the mere possibility that Russia would use the vote as a pretext for another territorial grab had officials in Kiev calling the referendum illegal and insisting that action to suppress the armed separatists would continue in the days ahead.  
虽然主张分离者举行合法投票的能力极度令人怀疑，但俄罗斯可能会以此次公投为借口开展另一场攫取领土的行动。仅仅是这种可能性，就促使基辅的官员宣称此次公投非法，坚称未来会继续镇压武装分裂分子。
“The Ukrainian state has never planned any referendum,” the head of Ukraine’s National Security Council, Andriy Parubiy, said at a news conference in Kiev. “We cannot cancel or postpone something that doesn’t exist. This is political fraud.”
“乌克兰官方从未计划举行任何公投，”乌克兰国家安全委员会(National Security Council)主席安德里·帕鲁比(Andriy Parubiy)在基辅参加新闻发布会时表示。“我们无法取消或推迟不存在的投票，那属于政治骗局。”
However the process plays out on Sunday, the prospect of resolving the Ukrainian crisis will hinge more on the reactions in Moscow, Kiev and the West than on the results — real or forged.  
无论周日的投票会产生怎样的结果，解决乌克兰危机的前景更多地取决于莫斯科、基辅及西方国家的反应，而不是投票结果——无论是真实的还是伪造的。
Ukrainian officials said Mr. Putin’s remarks were intended to continue destabilizing the country with an eye toward disrupting the far more consequential presidential elections scheduled for May 25. “Any calls for their postponement are not an expression of good will, but simply farce,” the foreign ministry said in a statement. “This scenario has already been played by Russia in Crimea.”
乌克兰官员表示，普京的言论意在继续破坏该国的稳定，以便扰乱定于5月25日举行的更为重要的总统选举。“任何呼吁推迟公投的举动都不是在表达善意，而只是一场闹剧，”乌克兰外交部发表声明称。“俄罗斯已经在克里米亚上演了这一剧目。”
But some analysts said Mr. Putin was hedging against the inability of insurgents to pull off a successful ballot measure.
但一些分析人士表示，普京是在避免出现叛乱分子无法在投票中取得胜利的情形。
 “They control dozens of buildings, but not the entire territory, and don’t have the administrative capacity to organize a vote,” said Michael McFaul, who until earlier this year served as the United States ambassador in Russia. “Moreover, polls show that a free and fair election there would not produce support for splitting with Ukraine.”
“他们控制了数十栋建筑，但并没有掌控整个地区，他们没有组织投票的行政能力，”迈克尔·麦克福尔(Michael McFaul)说。“而且，民调显示，如果开展自由公平的投票，结果不会支持脱离乌克兰。”麦克福尔在今年年初前，一直担任美国驻俄罗斯大使。
In Moscow on Thursday, Mr. Putin briefly echoed the remarks he made a day earlier about seeking a diplomatic solution to the Ukrainian crisis through mediation by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
周四，普京在莫斯科简略重复了前一天的讲话，表示希望在欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)的调停下，通过外交途径解决乌克兰危机。
In another gesture of reconciliation, Ukraine’s acting president, Oleksander Turchynov, and prime minister, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, in a statement offered amnesty to any insurgents who did not have “blood on their hands.”
乌克兰代总统奥列克桑德尔·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr Turchynov)和总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)再次摆出和解姿态，发表声明称，政府将赦免“双手没有沾染鲜血”的叛乱分子。
While a chaotic voting process might discredit insurgent leaders, Ukrainian officials were not willing to stand by and hope for a mess, particularly given the level of misinformation that has been broadcast repeatedly on Russian state-controlled news media throughout the crisis. Just a polling station or two with a line of voters could provide the backdrop needed to make the vote appear legitimate on television to millions of viewers.
虽然混乱的投票过程可能会破坏叛乱领袖的威信，但乌克兰官员不愿袖手旁观，坐等混乱局面发生，特别是考虑到俄罗斯官方媒体在危机期间多次报道错误信息。只要有一两个秩序井然的投票站，就可以提供一个背景，使数百万观众在电视上看到似乎合法的投票活动。
Illustrating officials’ concerns about fraud, the Ukrainian security service posted a recording on its website, on Wednesday, that it said proved Russian involvement in coordinating both the unrest in eastern Ukraine and the referendum on independence, including plans to falsify results.
周三，乌克兰安全机构在其网站上公布了一段录音，这显示出官员们对投票舞弊的担忧。该机构称，那段录音表明俄罗斯参与协调了乌克兰东部的骚乱，也插手了决定是否独立的公投，包括计划篡改投票结果。
The recording was of a phone call that the security service said took place between a pro-Russian political operative named Aleksandr Barkashov, who was identified as being in Moscow, and Dmytro Boitsov, a leader of rebels in Donetsk.
该安全机构称，这段电话录音是一个名为亚历山大·巴尔卡绍夫(Aleksandr Barkashov)的亲俄政治活动人士，与顿涅茨克叛乱分子领袖德米特罗·博伊佐夫(Dmytro Boitsov)之间的对话。他们确定前者在莫斯科。
The authenticity of the recording could not be independently verified.
这段录音的真实性无法得到独立证实。
In the conversation, riddled with expletives, Mr. Boitsov suggests canceling the referendum and Mr. Barkashov insists that it must go forward, but says that it is ridiculous to consider holding a real vote.
在这段穿插着脏话的对话中，博伊佐夫建议取消公投，巴尔卡绍夫则坚持认为公投必须展开，但称如果要考虑举行真实的投票，那就太荒唐了。
“Are you going to walk around and collect papers?” he asks incredulously, his words punctuated by curses. “Are you insane?”
“难道你要走来走去，收集选票吗？”他以难以置信的口气问道，其中夹杂着脏话。“你疯了吗？”
Mr. Barkashov adds: “Let’s say that 89 percent voted for the Donetsk Republic and that’s it.”
巴尔卡绍夫还表示，“假定89%的人投票支持成立顿涅茨克共和国，那就行了。”
Given the risks of manipulation, the acting Ukrainian president, Mr. Turchynov, and the prime minister, Mr. Yatsenyuk, continued to denounce the referendum and Mr. Putin, even as they called for a national round table to discuss the country’s political future. By their reckoning, it seemed as if the Russian president had stage-managed yet another deft maneuver in his geopolitical feud with the West, presenting himself as a conciliator while also reasserting, as he has for weeks, that the rebels in eastern Ukraine are not under Kremlin control.
考虑到投票受到操纵的风险，乌克兰代总统图奇诺夫和总理亚采纽克在呼吁开展全国性的圆桌会议，讨论乌克兰的政治未来的同时，也在继续谴责公投和普京。他们认为俄罗斯总统似乎在与西方国家的地缘政治冲突中，精心安排了另一个巧妙动作。普京像数周以来所做的一样，摆出调停人的姿态，重申乌克兰东部的叛乱分子并非受控于克里姆林宫。
Ukrainian officials said they did not believe Mr. Putin would pull back troops along the border, and they suggested that he was simply buying time, allowing his agents on the ground to continue stirring unrest while giving Russia flexibility to intervene further and potentially take steps to cast doubt on the Ukrainian presidential election scheduled for May 25.
乌克兰官员表示，他们不相信普京会撤回边境沿线的军队，暗示普京只不过是在争取时间，使当地的特工可以继续煽动局面。这样就能给俄罗斯提供灵活性，进一步进行干预，而且有可能采取举措，干扰原定于5月25日举行的乌克兰总统选举。