KIEV, Ukraine — As demonstrators in ski masks scuffled with the police here on Tuesday evening, opposition leaders accused the government of provoking the very violence it has been condemning in an effort to discredit and possibly split the protest movement.
乌克兰基辅——周二晚间，戴着滑雪面罩的示威者与基辅地区的警察扭打起来，反对派领导人由此指责政府挑起了它自己一直在谴责的暴力活动，目的是抹黑以至分裂抗议活动。
“The government tried to marginalize the protest, hoping that after 60 days in the cold people would become tired and leave, and only a different contingent would remain, only bums, but this did not work,” said Yuri Syrotyuk, a deputy head of the nationalist Svoboda party and a member of Parliament.
民族主义党派斯沃博达党(Svoboda)的副主席、议会成员尤里·瑟罗特约科(Yuri Syrotyuk)说，“政府本来试图冷落抗议活动，希望长达60天的漠视会让人们感到疲惫，进而离开，最后剩下的只有一群不同的人员，只有流浪者，但这并未奏效。”
“The government then decided to provoke a conflict, so some radical element would respond,” he added. “They wanted a schism. They are following the Roman principle of divide and conquer. This is their plan, but it will not work.”
“然后政府决定挑起一场冲突，如此一来，一些激进分子就会有所反应，”他补充说。“他们希望出现分裂。他们是在仿效罗马人那种分而治之的原则。这就是他们的计划，但这不会奏效。”
Opposition leaders say the government of President Viktor F. Yanukovich has also rebuffed all offers of negotiations, adding fuel to a volatile situation.
反对派领导人表示，维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovich)领导的政府还拒绝了所有的谈判提议，加剧了不稳定的局势。
“Few days are left, or maybe even hours, when solving the political process is possible through negotiations,” said Arseniy Yatsenyuk, a leader of the opposition Fatherland Party. “This should be done while people are still willing to listen to politicians and accept the path to political resolution of the crisis.”
“通过谈判解决政治进程问题的机会可能只剩几天或几小时的时间了，”反对派祖国联盟(Fatherland coalition)的领导人阿尔谢尼·亚采纽克(Arseniy Yatsenyuk)说。“应该趁着人们仍然愿意听取政治人物的意见，接受以政治方案解决危机的路径的时候，通过谈判解决问题。”
The government’s opponents pointed to three recent actions that they said were intended to incite the more radical protesters and sow doubt in the minds of moderates: the passing of laws last week circumscribing the right of public assembly, the blocking of a protest march past the Parliament building on Sunday, and the sending of cellphone messages on Tuesday to people standing in the vicinity of the fighting that said, “Dear subscriber, you are registered as a participant in a mass disturbance.”
政府的反对者指出了最近的三次行动，称这些行动的意图是煽动更加激进的抗议者，致使温和派产生怀疑：政府上周通过了限制公开集会权利的法律，周日阻止了穿越议会大楼的抗议游行，周二又向即将卷入冲突的人发送手机短信称，“亲爱的用户，您已注册成为群体骚乱的参与者。”
Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, blamed politicians from the European Union and the United States for encouraging the fighting over the past three days. The situation in the city, he warned, was “getting out of control.”
俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)指责欧盟及美国的政治人物在过去三天的时间里鼓励人们参与冲突。他警告称，基辅的局面“正在失控”。
“It seems someone is interested in this chaos,” Mr. Lavrov said at a news conference in Moscow.
拉夫罗夫在莫斯科举行的新闻发布会上表示，“似乎有人对这样的混乱局面感兴趣。”
American diplomats had said at a meeting in December of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe that the Ukrainian government should heed the opinion of the population and seek greater integration with Europe or risk instability, he noted. “What was this, prophecy or a prediction?” he said.
他指出，美国外交官曾在12月举行的欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation)会议上表示，乌克兰政府应该听取民众的意见，寻求更大程度地参与欧洲一体化，要不就有不稳定的风险。他说，“这是什么，预言还是预测？”
The European Union issued no official response to Mr. Lavrov, but its officials say it has never condoned or encouraged violence, as Mr. Lavrov seemed to suggest it had done by having an official mingle with the protesters when they first turned out two months ago.
欧盟没有对拉夫罗夫做出官方回应，但欧盟官员表示，欧盟从未容忍或鼓励暴力活动，尽管拉夫罗夫似乎暗示欧盟支持了此类活动，称抗议者两个月前首次发起抗议活动时，欧盟与他们有官方交际。
At a meeting in Brussels on Monday, European foreign ministers released a final statement on Ukraine saying that “the E.U. remains committed to Ukraine’s political association and economic integration” with Europe “as soon as Ukraine is ready.”
周一，欧洲各国外长在布鲁塞尔举行的会议上发布了有关乌克兰的最终声明，称“欧盟依然致力于乌克兰与欧洲的政治联盟及经济一体化，一旦乌克兰做好准备，相关工作即可进行。”
Protest leaders said that the authorities seemed to be giving the more radical protesters free rein while going out of their way to frighten more moderate ones, particularly with the threatening text messages sent on Tuesday.
抗议活动领导人表示，当局似乎对较为激进的抗议者放任不管，同时又想尽办法恐吓较为温和的抗议者，突出的体现是周二发出的威胁短信。
The phrasing of the message, about participating in a “mass disturbance,” echoed language in the new law making it a crime to participate in a protest deemed violent. The law took effect on Tuesday. And protesters were concerned that the government seemed to be using cutting-edge technology from the advertising industry to pinpoint people for political profiling.
这条与参与“群体骚乱活动”有关的短信使用了新法律的措辞，新法律规定参与暴力抗议属于犯罪行为。该法已于周二生效。抗议者担心，政府似乎正在利用广告行业的前沿技术，依据政治观点对人们进行定位。
Three cellphone companies in Ukraine — Kyivstar, MTS and Life — denied that they had provided the location data to the government or had sent the text messages, the newspaper Ukrainskaya Pravda reported. Kyivstar suggested that it was instead the work of a “pirate” cellphone tower set up in the area.
据《乌克兰真理报》(Ukrainskaya Pravda)报道，乌克兰的三家手机公司——Kyivstar、MTS和Life——否认它们曾向政府提供地点数据，并称它们不曾发送这些短信。Kyivstar表示，这是设在该地区的一个“海盗”无线信号塔所为。
The messages appeared to have little effect. Three hours after they were sent, riot police officers pushed past barricades of burned buses at that site and were met by a crowd of protesters in ski masks and bicycle helmets, carrying sticks and ready to fight.
这些短信的影响似乎不大。短信发送三小时后，防暴警察冲过现场焚烧过的巴士路障，遇上了一群头戴滑雪面罩和自行车头盔的抗议者，后者拿着棍子，随时准备战斗。
The police fired plastic bullets and threw stun grenades. They pressed as far as a cobblestone-throwing catapult built by protesters the day before and dismantled the machine before retreating.
警察发射了塑料子弹，还投掷了震撼手榴弹。他们冲到了抗议者一天前架设的一个鹅卵石弹射器跟前，拆除了弹射器，然后才撤退。
The opposition leaders who are members of parliamentary factions face a difficult choice over whether to embrace or denounce the more radical groups as the demonstrations grow more violent. So far, the politicians have condemned those fighting with the police as not representing the aspirations of the larger number of peaceful protesters who have gathered in Independence Square since November in support of closer economic integration with the European Union.
作为议会党派成员的反对派领袖面临着一个困难的选择，即在示威活动越来越暴力的情况下，是要接受还是要谴责这些愈加激进的组织。迄今为止，政治人物谴责那些与警方发生冲突的人并不代表大部分和平抗议者的意愿。自去年11月开始，这些人就聚集在独立广场(Independence Square)，呼吁乌克兰与欧盟建议更密切的经济联系。
Some of those fighting the police, carrying baseball bats and throwing Molotov cocktails say they are supporters of the European free-trade agreement whose rejection by Mr. Yanukovich set off the protests.
部分抗议者拿着棒球棒，投掷燃烧弹，与警察发生了冲突，其中一些人声称自己支持欧洲自由贸易协定。乌克兰抗议活动的起因就是亚努科维奇拒绝与欧盟签订自贸协议。
But other groups have also appeared in Kiev, adding to the sense of chaos. Young men carrying sticks wandered side streets near the central square threatening to beat protesters who walked alone. One group shattered a shop window.
然而，其他一些组织也出现在了基辅，使混乱程度进一步加深。手持棍棒的年轻人在中央广场附近的边道上游走，威胁要袭击只身一人的抗议者。还有一群人打碎了一扇橱窗。
The opposition leaders have said they believe that these people are soccer hooligans and unemployed men bused into Kiev by the government to provide a proxy force to intimidate protesters and darken the image of the movement by highlighting the violence.
反对派领袖称，他们认为这些人是政府用汽车送到基辅的足球流氓和无业游民，目的是借他们的手来恐吓抗议者，通过加剧暴力来抹黑这场运动。
“Disorders should not be allowed to happen,” Vitali Klitschko, a former boxing champion and the leader of the political party Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform, wrote on Twitter. “This is a plan of authorities to introduce a state of emergency.”
“我们不应该允许混乱局面的出现，”前拳击冠军、政治党派乌克兰改革民主同盟（Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform，缩写UDAR有“挥拳”的意思——译注）的领袖维塔利·克利奇科(Vitali Klitschko)在Twitter上写道。“这是当局的一个计划，目的是让国家进入紧急状态。”
Early Tuesday, opposition activists detained about a dozen of these rival young men and marched them back to one of several buildings occupied by protesters, where several admitted in videotaped conversations that they had been promised 200 hryvnia, or about $25, to cause trouble. But they were not able to explain clearly who had hired them.
周二早些时候，反对派活动人士拘押了大约十二名年轻捣乱者，并把他们押送到了被抗议者占领的几栋建筑物当中的一座，有几人在被拍摄下来的谈话中承认，有人告诉他们，如果他们去捣乱，就能得到200格里夫尼亚（约25美元，约合151元人民币）。但他们说不清楚雇主是谁。
A civic activist who has been prominent in the movement, Ihor Lutsenko, was missing on Tuesday after men forced him into a car in the parking lot of a hospital, according to a Facebook post by his wife.
在运动中表现颇为突出的公民活动人士伊戈尔·卢岑科(Ihor Lutsenko)的妻子在Facebook上发帖称，周二，卢岑科被几名男子塞进了停在一家医院的停车场里的一辆车，随后便失踪了。
The protests, which peaked in December, had seemed to be fading, but were re-energized by opposition to the new laws against public assembly.
抗议活动于去年12月达到顶峰，其势头本来已经开始减弱，之后却再次变强，为的是抗议限制公众集会的新法律。