ARTEMIVSK, Ukraine — A fragile, European-brokered cease-fire deal for Ukraine appeared at risk of unraveling, at least in part, on Saturday evening even before it had formally taken effect, when a rebel leader announced that he would not be bound by the accord on a central battlefield of the war.
乌克兰阿顿木斯克——在欧洲斡旋下达成的脆弱的乌克兰停火协议，周六夜间似乎就在一定程度上面临了崩溃的风险，而那时协议还没有正式生效。这是因为，一名反对派领导人宣布，他不会在此次战争的一个中心战场上遵守协议。
The rebel leader, Alexander Zakharchenko, said the cease-fire agreement signed in Minsk, Belarus, and brokered by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and the French president, François Hollande, did not apply to the Ukrainian-held city of Debaltseve, where thousands of Ukrainian troops are under siege and might be surrounded.
反对派领导人亚历山大·扎哈尔琴科(Alexander Zakharchenko)表示，在白俄罗斯明斯克签订的停火协议，不适用于由乌克兰人控制的城镇德巴泽维。该协议是在德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的协调下达成的。在德巴泽维，数千名乌克兰政府军士兵受到了围攻，而且可能会被全面包围。
He said the town, a critical railway hub, was not mentioned specifically in the accord. Zakharchenko, the head of the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic, said he had ordered his forces to halt combat all along the front line in eastern Ukraine, as required in the Minsk agreement, but not near Debaltseve and indicated that rebel forces would not allow the Ukrainian troops there, about 8,000, to leave.
这座城镇是一个关键的铁路枢纽，他说协议中并未明确提及这里。自行宣告成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国的领导人扎哈尔琴科表示，他已根据明斯克协议的要求，下令他的部队停止在乌克兰东部前线的战斗，但德巴泽维并不包括在内。他还表示，反对派武装不会让那里超过8000人的乌克兰士兵撤离。
“We ceased fire on all territories of the Donetsk People's Republic with the exception of internal regions, Debaltseve,” Zakharchenko said, according to Interfax, the Russian news agency. “There is not a word about Debaltseve in the Minsk agreement. We will block all attempts to break out. I have given the order.”
“我们已经在顿涅茨克人民共和国的所有领土停火，只有其中的德巴泽维除外，”俄罗斯通讯社国际文传电讯社(Interfax)援引扎哈尔琴科的话说。“明斯克的协议中并未提及德巴泽维。我们将阻止一切突围企图，我已经下了命令。”
The statement left a looming question about the future of the accord brokered with great effort by the European leaders, including 16 hours of overnight negotiations between Merkel, Holland, President Vladimir Putin of Russia and Ukraine's president, Petro Poroshenko.
这一表态给协议的未来提出了一个令人担忧的问题。协议是在欧洲领导人付出巨大努力的情况下达成的，默克尔、奥朗德、俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)和乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)为此举行了长达16小时的通宵谈判。
The National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine issued a statement Saturday evening carried by Ukrainska Pravda newspaper saying Zakharchenko's comments signaled that, “In this way the Donetsk People's Republic announces it does not recognize the Minsk accord and will continue military action.”
报纸《乌克兰真理报》(Ukrainska Pravda)刊发乌克兰国家安全和国防委员会(National Security and Defense Council)周六夜间的一项声明称，扎哈尔琴科的言论表明，“顿涅茨克人民共和国通过这种方式宣称，它不承认明斯克协议，而且还将继续采取军事行动。”
Poroshenko said Saturday he would ask the Ukrainian parliament to declare a national state of martial law if the cease-fire broke down.
波罗申科周六表示，如果停火协议破裂，他将提请乌克兰议会宣布在全国实施戒严。
Even before Zakharchenko announced the accord did not apply to Debaltseve, anger had been swelling among Ukrainian soldiers at a negotiated two-day lag between the signing of the agreement and its implementation.
各方谈判同意，协议签署两天后才会实施。早在扎哈尔琴科宣布协议不适用于德巴泽维之前，乌克兰士兵就对这种拖延倍感愤怒。