BRUSSELS — Dealing a defiant blow to the Kremlin, President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine signed a long-delayed trade pact with Europe on Friday that Moscow had bitterly opposed. He then declared he would like his country to one day become a full member of the European Union.
布鲁塞尔——周五，乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)与欧洲签署了一项推迟已久的贸易协定，对于强烈反对该协定的俄罗斯，这是一次挑衅性的打击。波罗申科还宣称，希望自己的国家有朝一日能成为欧盟的正式成员。
In so doing, Ukraine’s new leader, a billionaire confectionary magnate, has in effect raised a risky bet on the West that has cost his country hundreds of lives and the loss of the Crimean peninsula to Russia and has set off a low-level civil war in its eastern border region.
身为糖果业富商的乌克兰新任领导人这么做，实际上是冒着风险将更多赌注押在了西方这一边。这场赌局已经在他的国家造成数百人死亡，导致克里米亚半岛被俄罗斯吞并，还在该国东部边界地区引发了一场程度较低的内战。
By signing the trade pact at the Brussels headquarters of the European Union, Mr. Poroshenko revived a deal whose rejection last November by his predecessor, Viktor F. Yanukovych, set off months of pro-European protests in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, and pushed the West into its biggest test of wills with Russia since the end of the Cold War.
在位于布鲁塞尔的欧盟总部签署这份文件时，波罗申科实际上恢复了一份本已搁置的贸易协定。去年11月，前任总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)拒绝签署该协定，引发了乌克兰首都基辅持续数月的亲欧洲抗议，并让西方陷入了冷战结束后与俄罗斯之间最大的一场意志较量。
The unrest toppled Mr. Yanukovych and drove pro-Russian activists in Crimea and the eastern region of Donetsk to demand annexation by Russia.
骚乱推翻了亚努科维奇政府，并促使克里米亚及乌克兰东部顿涅茨克地区的活动人士要求并入俄罗斯。
“This is a really historic date for Ukraine,” Mr. Poroshenko, who won Ukraine’s presidential elections in May to fill a post left vacant when Mr. Yanukovych fled to Russia in February, said at a news conference here.
“对乌克兰而言，这是真正具有历史意义的一天，”波罗申科在这里举行的一场新闻发布会上说。波罗申科在5月的总统大选中获胜，填补了亚努科维奇2月逃往俄罗斯后留下的空缺职位。
In a dig at Mr. Yanukovych, he said he had signed the agreement with the same pen that his toppled predecessor would have used to sign the same pact, before he changed his mind under pressure from Moscow and set up his own downfall.
波罗申科讽刺亚努科维奇说，如果被推翻的亚努科维奇当时没有在莫斯科的压力之下改变主意，进而导致自己下台，那么他也会用同一支笔签署协定。
The completion of the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine marked a severe setback for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and his oft-repeated goal of reasserting Russian influence in the “near abroad,” Moscow’s term for the territories of the former Soviet Union.
欧盟与乌克兰联系国协定的签署，让俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，以及他一再重申的在“近海外”重建俄罗斯影响力的目标，都遭遇了严重的挫折。“近海外”是俄罗斯描述前苏联领土的一个说法。
“The big loser in all this is Putin,” said Amanda Paul, a researcher at the European Policy Center, a Brussels research group. “He has gone out of his way to create problems internally in Ukraine but only pushed Ukraine further into the arms of the West than it ever would have gone before. It totally backfired for Putin.”
“所有这一切的大输家是普京，”布鲁塞尔的研究机构欧洲政策中心(European Policy Center)的研究员阿曼达·保罗(Amanda Paul)说，“他本来是要努力在乌克兰内部制造麻烦，但却把乌克兰进一步推向了西方的怀抱，乌克兰以前从未与西方这么亲近。对普京而言，这完全是事与愿违。”
Within minutes of the signing ceremony, the news agency Interfax quoted Russia’s deputy foreign minister as warning that “serious consequences” would follow. The remark was an ominous sign of the vexation caused in Moscow by the tilt toward Europe of lands that Russia, first under czarist and then Soviet rule, for centuries considered its own.
签字仪式结束几分钟后，俄罗斯通讯社国际文传电讯社(Interfax)就报道，俄罗斯副外长警告说此举会带来“严重的后果”。这番话是一个不祥的征兆，表明数百年来被俄罗斯视为己有的土地向欧洲倾斜，令莫斯科恼怒不已。过去几个世纪里，这块地区先是由沙皇统治，之后又由苏联统治。
In Moscow, Mr. Putin blamed the months of crisis in Ukraine on Western leaders, saying they had forced Kiev to choose between Russia and the European Union.
在莫斯科，普京认为乌克兰为期几个月的危机应该归咎于西方领导人，称他们逼迫基辅在俄罗斯与欧盟之间做选择。
“The acute crisis in this neighboring country seriously troubles us,” Mr. Putin said after a ceremony to receive the credentials of foreign diplomats. “The anti-constitutional coup in Kiev and attempts to artificially impose a choice between Europe and Russia on the Ukrainian people have pushed society toward a split and painful confrontation.”
“这个邻国深刻的危机让我们深感困扰，”普京在接受外国外交官国书的仪式后表示。“基辅的反宪法政变，以及人为迫使乌克兰人民在欧洲与俄罗斯之间做出选择的做法，会将社会推向分裂，并引发痛苦的对抗。”
Though spurned, Moscow retains enormous influence in Ukraine. It reminded Kiev of this earlier this month by suspending deliveries of natural gas following a long-running dispute over price. Russia has denied any hand in the violence in eastern Ukraine but has been accused by the West of supporting pro-Russians rebels with guns, money and manpower from across the border in Russia.
虽然已经被乌克兰撇开，但莫斯科对乌克兰仍有强大的影响力。本月早些时候，莫斯科还曾通过停止输送天然气的方式，向基辅提醒这一点。在那以前，双方已就价格争论了很久。虽然俄罗斯否认曾插手乌克兰东部的暴力冲突，但西方国家仍然指责俄罗斯越境输送枪支、资金和人员，为亲俄反对派提供支持。
Far from concluding a period of tumult, the completion of the trade deal, which still needs approval from the Ukrainian Parliament, could further stoke tensions both inside Ukraine and between Moscow and the West.
这项贸易协定还需要经过乌克兰议会的批准。协议的签署不仅无法结束混乱局面，而且还可能进一步加剧乌克兰的内部冲突，以及莫斯科与西方国家之间的矛盾。
Senior Russian officials quickly began warning that Russia’s businesses and economy could suffer, as their markets could be flooded with low-cost goods from Europe that skirt tariffs by first being shipped through Ukraine, which will be exempt from most European duties. Other experts have dismissed those concerns, saying Russia is quite adept at identifying and intercepting such goods as they cross the border.
俄罗斯高级官员迅速警告称，俄罗斯的商业和经济可能会受到损害，因为他们的市场将会被来自欧洲的廉价商品所充斥。商家可以通过先把货物运到乌克兰来逃避关税，这样做可以免征大部分欧洲关税。其他专家则对这种顾虑不以为然，称俄罗斯非常善于检查和拦截此类过境货物。
European leaders, meeting Friday at a summit in Brussels dominated by wrangling over who should lead its executive arm for the next five years, announced that they would not immediately impose additional sanctions on Russia for its interference in Crimea and eastern Ukraine. But, they said in a statement that additional sanctions were being prepared and could be deployed “without delay” if Russia does not do more to curb violence in eastern Ukraine.
欧洲各国领导人周五在布鲁塞尔举行峰会，会上争执不休的主要议题是，未来五年里，由谁来担任欧盟行政机构的领导人。会上，各国领导人宣布，虽然俄罗斯对克里米亚和乌克兰东部的局势进行了干预，但他们不会立即对俄罗斯实施额外制裁。不过，他们在一项声明中称，已经准备好了额外的制裁措施，如果俄罗斯不采取更多行动来制止乌克兰东部的暴力冲突，他们就会“毫不迟疑地”实施。
Europe, like the United States, has so far limited its sanctions to an asset freeze and travel ban against a narrow group of Russian political and military figures involved in the March annexation of Crimea.
与美国一样，欧洲目前的制裁措施仅限于冻结资产，以及对与3月吞并克里米亚有关的一些俄罗斯政治和军事人物发布旅行禁令。
European leaders set a deadline of next Monday for pro-Russian militants to leave borders posts seized from Ukrainian personnel, to release all hostages, agree to procedures for the verification of a cease-fire and accept “substantial negotiations” on a peace plan proposed by Mr. Poroshenko.
欧洲领导人要求，亲俄武装分子要在下周一之前，离开他们从乌克兰军方手中夺取的边防哨所、释放所有人质、同意核查停火协议的相关程序，并接受关于波罗申科提出的一项和平方案的“实质性谈判”。