KIEV, Ukraine — National “round-table” talks taking a stab at resolving Ukraine's six-month political crisis by finding a formula for decentralizing power will begin Wednesday against a seemingly formidable array of obstacles.
乌克兰基辅——即将于周三召开的乌克兰“圆桌”谈判旨在找到一个分权方案，进而解决该国持续了六个月之久的政治危机。不过，此次会议似乎会面临一系列难以逾越的障碍。
First is the matter of who will talk to whom. Ukrainian government officials have said they will speak with their antagonists in the east, but not those with “blood on their hands.” That would appear to rule out most of the leaders of the pro-Russian uprising in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions who are backed by armed militants, which could hurt the credibility of the talks.
首先是谁能参与谈判。乌克兰政府官员曾表示，愿意与东部的反对派对话，但不包括那些“手上沾着鲜血的人”。这样一来，顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克地区大多数的亲俄叛乱首领都会被排除在外，这些叛乱活动受到了武装激进分子的支持。而这可能会破坏谈判的公信力。
The heart of the debate will deal with the question of how to reshape the government and bestow more power on officials outside Kiev, a charming, cosmopolitan capital with a reputation since the Soviet collapse a generation ago of being a cesspool of corruption and mismanagement.
谈判的核心在于解决这一问题：如何对政府进行重组，让基辅之外的官员拥有更多权力。基辅是一座风景宜人的国际化都市，然而自从20多年前苏联解体之后，基辅就一直以腐败现象和管理不善而闻名。
A large gulf remains between the views of the interim government and the eastern separatists, but officials say a compromise on a new system of governance is inevitable. “There is no other way out,” said Volodymyr Groysman, the acting minister for regional development, who is leading the decentralization initiative.
过渡政府和东部分离派的设想仍然隔着巨大的鸿沟，但官员们说，就一个新的治理体系达成妥协是不可避免的。地方分权方案由负责地区发展的代理部长弗拉基米尔·格罗伊斯曼(Volodymyr Groysman)领导，他说，“没有其他出路。”
Germany's foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, visited Kiev and Odessa on Tuesday to help find the way. Getting there will not be easy, however, particularly with the ever-present threat of violence in the east, which could disrupt or destroy the chances of reconciliation.
德国外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)周二访问了基辅和敖德萨，以帮助寻找解决方案。然而，达成共识并不容易，尤其是东部的暴力威胁一直存在，而这可能会影响甚至完全破坏和解的可能性。
On Tuesday, for example, separatist rebels ambushed a Ukrainian army convoy outside a village west of Kramtorsk in eastern Ukraine, killing at least six soldiers and wounding eight others, according to the Ministry of Defense, which called the episode a “terrorist attack.”
例如，据乌克兰国防部称，周二，在乌克兰东部克拉马托尔斯克以西的一座村庄外，分离派武装伏击了乌克兰军方的一个车队，导致至少六名士兵死亡，另有八人受伤。国防部将这一事件称为“恐怖袭击”。
A separatist commander in nearby Slovyansk said that one rebel was killed in the fighting and that two others were wounded. In the city of Luhansk, the separatist governor, Valery Bolotov, was shot and wounded in an assassination attempt.
附近城市斯洛夫扬斯克分离派武装的一名指挥官说，一名反叛武装分子在冲突中身亡，另外两人受伤。在卢甘斯克市，分离派州长瓦列里·博洛托夫(Valery Bolotov)在一次暗杀企图中遭枪击受伤。
Kiev officials decided that the first round-table session would be held in the Verkhovna Rada, Ukraine's parliament, potentially undermining the legitimacy of the talks in the eyes of separatists but assuring that the entire country will be represented. Although President Viktor F. Yanukovych was driven from power in February after months of protests, the membership of the parliament has not changed.
基辅官员决定，第一轮圆桌会议将在乌克兰国会——乌克兰最高达拉(Verkhovna Rada)举行，这可能会破坏谈判在分离派眼中的合法性，但却可以确保整个国家的代表都有一席之地。尽管在数月的抗议活动之后，乌克兰总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)今年2月被赶下了台，但乌克兰国会的构成没有发生改变。
Despite the enormous challenges, the concept of round-table talks has been endorsed by world leaders including President Vladimir Putin of Russia, and the discussions will be overseen in part by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine's richest man and the region's largest employer, has urged separatists to seek a compromise with Kiev that would increase the authority of local governments.
尽管面临巨大挑战，圆桌谈判的计划还是受到了各国领导人的支持，包括俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)，谈判一定程度上将受到欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)的监督。乌克兰首富及该地区最大雇主里纳特·艾哈迈托夫(Rinat Akhmetov)已经敦促分离派与基辅政府达成和解方案，强化地方政府的权力。
As a result, this much is clear: After months of uprising and violence, and for all the fraught history, ethnolinguistic tensions, charges of fascist aggression and Cold War-style geopolitical maneuvering that have characterized the crisis until now, events here seem about to shift into uncertain territory — a policy discussion on the optimum balance between centralized government and local control that would not be out of place in the United States.
数月的示威和冲突暴露出了乌克兰纠结的历史、民族语言议题上紧张的分歧，危机过程中还出现了法西斯主义侵略活动的指控，以及冷战式的地缘政治角力。但现在，有一点已经颇为清晰，那就是局势将走向不确定的领域——各方将展开一场政策讨论，寻求在权力集中与地方分权之间，达成最佳的平衡。这样的讨论放到美国，也不会显得陌生。
All sides to the Ukraine dispute — Moscow, Kiev, the rebels and the West — agree that some degree of devolution would be a good thing. “It's a necessity,” Groysman said. “We should have done it during independence” in 1991.
乌克兰争端的各方——莫斯科、基辅、叛乱者和西方国家——都认为，一定程度的权力下放将大有裨益。格罗伊斯曼说，“这是必要的，我们在1991年独立时就应该这么做。”
But the agreement seems to stop there.
但共识似乎仅限于此。
On one side is a plan for “decentralization” being developed by the provisional Ukrainian government. It uses Poland as a model and is backed by some of the country's most important business titans.
其中一个选择是乌克兰临时政府正在制定的一个“分权”方案。这个方案以波兰为样板，得到了乌克兰最重要的一些企业大亨的支持。
On the other is a vaguer “federalization” concept, favored by Russia and endorsed by separatist leaders, that would weaken the central administration. It would create a class of empowered regional governors, whose political and economic allegiances could be split between Moscow and the West.
另一个选择，是更加模糊的“联邦化”构想。这个构想受到了俄罗斯和分离派领导人的支持。它将会弱化中央政府，并催生一个拥有更大权力的地方首长阶层，他们在政治和经济上的效忠将受到莫斯科和西方的拉扯。