KIEV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian Parliament passed a series of laws on Tuesday meant to cement the country’s Western orientation while strengthening its truce with pro-Russian separatists in the southeast. The steps were more freighted with symbolism than likely to bring any immediate change.
乌克兰基辅——乌克兰议会于周二通过了一系列法案，准备在加强该国的西方倾向的同时，巩固与东南部亲俄分离分子的休战协定。这些举措更多的是象征意义，不太可能立即带来变化。
One of the Parliament’s votes was to ratify an association agreement with the European Union. The rejection of the pact by the previous president just before he was scheduled to sign it led to mass demonstrations and his overthrow in a people’s revolution last February.
议会投票批准了乌克兰与欧盟(European Union)的准成员国协定。前总统原本准备签署协定，但最终拒绝签署，导致乌克兰出现大规模示威活动，总统本人在今年2月的人民革命中被推翻。
The lawmakers also approved two laws meant to fulfill the promises Ukraine made in negotiating a shaky cease-fire with the rebels after five months of armed conflict. One of the laws grants temporary autonomy to two regions, Donetsk and Luhansk, where the rebels tried to break away from Ukraine. The other grants amnesty to separatists who did not commit war crimes.
议员们还通过了两项法案，以兑现乌克兰与叛乱分子达成脆弱的停火协议时作出的承诺，达成协议前双方经过了五个月的武装冲突。其中一项法案给予顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克暂时的自治权，这两个地区的叛乱分子试图脱离乌克兰。另一项法案同意特赦没有犯下战争罪行的分裂分子。
President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine sought to portray the votes on Tuesday as a moment of triumph for Ukraine, but they were actually concessions to Russia’s significant influence over the future of the country.
乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)力图将周二的投票描绘成乌克兰的胜利时刻，但实际上这是一种让步，使得俄罗斯能够对乌克兰未来发挥重大影响力。
The agreement with the Europe will not be fully implemented for more than a year in order to help allay Russian concerns that its market would be flooded with low-cost European goods moving through Ukraine.
为了缓解俄罗斯有关其国内市场上将充斥着通过乌克兰进入俄罗斯的欧洲低成本商品的担忧，乌克兰与欧盟签订的协议在一年多的时间里不会得到全面贯彻。
As for autonomy, large areas of the two regions are rebel-held and not in the government’s control; if the new laws are rejected by the separatists or their Russian patrons, they will prove meaningless.
至于自治权，这两个地区的大部分区域都由叛乱分子掌控，不在政府的控制下；如果分裂分子或其后台俄罗斯拒绝接受新法案，这些法案就毫无意义。
That prospect, though, did not deter soaring rhetoric about the legislation from government officials.
但这种可能性没有阻止政府官员高调夸赞法案。
“We are fixing the 350-year old mistake — Ukraine is Europe,” Arseniy Yatsenuk, the prime minister, told the Parliament, known as the Rada. “It’s a shame that this agreement is sealed with blood. But that was the choice, that was the price of independence.”
“我们纠正了350年来的错误——乌克兰是欧洲国家，”乌克兰总理阿尔谢尼·亚采纽克(Arseniy Yatsenyuk)在称为拉达(Rada)的议会说。“很遗憾，这份协议是用鲜血换来的。但这是我们的选择，这是独立的代价。”
Officials from the European Union, Ukraine and Russia, meeting in Brussels last week, agreed to delay key provisions of the pact, which Moscow has long opposed, until the end of 2015.
上周在布鲁塞尔举行会晤的欧盟、乌克兰及俄罗斯官员同意将协定中关键条款的实施推迟至2015年底，莫斯科方面一直对这些条款表示反对。
The government’s announcement late Friday that it would delay implementing the pact surprised and worried both pro-Western Ukrainian activists and foreign donors.
乌克兰政府在上周五晚些时候宣布，他们将延迟实施协定，这一举动让亲西方的乌克兰活动人士及外国捐助者感到震惊与担心。
“It takes away from the pressure to make the necessary reforms,” said Erik Berglof, the chief economist at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Still, he noted, Ukraine depends heavily on its access to the Russian market and had to avoid being locked out.
欧洲复兴开发银行(European Bank for Reconstruction and Development)首席经济学家埃里克·伯格洛夫(Erik Berglof)表示，“这减轻了进行必要改革的压力。”他指出，乌克兰严重依赖俄罗斯市场，需要避免被切断市场通道。
Mr. Poroshenko and his ministers have said repeatedly that changes demanded by the agreement would begin at once. But both activists and foreign donors expressed concern that nothing significant had changed in Ukraine since the February revolution.
波罗申科和他的部长们反复强调，协议中所要求的变化会立即生效。但活动人士和外国捐助者都担心，2月的革命以来，乌克兰政府并没有发生重大改变。
Many separatist leaders also rejected the measure, even though two of them signed the cease-fire accord with the government on Sept. 5 in Minsk, Belarus. The law grants the separatist regions special powers, including the right to establish their own police forces, elect their own regional councils and use Russian as their official language, for three years. The government says that by then, the constitution will have been amended to devolve such powers to regions across the country. The law also gives the regions the right “to strengthen and deepen the neighborly relations with Russian territories.”
有两名分裂派领导人于9月5日在白俄罗斯的明斯克与政府签署了停火协议，但许多分裂派领导人也反对这一方案。该法案为分裂地区赋予了一些特权，比如建立自己的警察部队，选举地方议会，以及将俄语作为官方语言，有效期为三年。政府表示，三年后，经过修订的宪法将把这些权力赋予全国各个地区。该法律还规定，这两个地区有权“强化和加深与俄罗斯领土的睦邻关系”。
Gennady Tsipkalov, the latest prime minister of the self-declared Luhansk People’s Republic, said in a posting on a Russian social media site, Vkontacte, that the special status provided by the law might have been enough if it had been offered when the rebellion first erupted in April. But he said it was no longer sufficient because of the number of people who had since died in the fighting. “People made their choice — a separate Luhansk People’s Republic,” he wrote.
自行成立的卢甘斯克人民共和国新任总理纳季·齐普卡洛夫(Gennady Tsipkalov)在俄罗斯社交网站Vkontacte上称，如果该法案出现于叛乱刚刚爆发的4月，它提供的特殊待遇可能已经足够。但他表示，现在不是了，因为许多人已在冲突中丧生。“人们做出了选择——一个独立的卢甘斯克人民共和国，”他写道。