MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin said Monday that he was withdrawing Russian troops from the border with Ukraine, the second time he has said that in less than two weeks. He also praised the government in Kiev, which he had previously called an illegal, fascist junta, for its willingness to negotiate structural changes.
莫斯科——本周一，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)表示，他正在撤回俄乌边境的俄罗斯军队。这是不到两周的时间内他第二次做出此番表态。普京还赞扬了基辅政府愿意就结构性变革进行谈判，而他之前曾称基辅政府非法，是法西斯军政府。
But the intended audience for these conciliatory remarks may not have been the United States and Europe, who would distrust them in any event. No, Mr. Putin’s gaze was more likely fixed on China, where he arrives on Tuesday by all accounts determined to show that he, too, wants to pivot to Asia.
但是，这些和解性表态可能不是说给美国和欧洲听的，因为他们无论如何都不会相信普京。不，普京的目光更有可能锁定在中国身上。他本周二抵达中国，种种迹象表明，他决意显示自己也打算转向亚洲。
While Mr. Putin has been casting an eye eastward practically since he returned to the presidency in 2012, the crisis in relations with the West over Ukraine has made ties to Asia, and particularly relations with its economic engine, China, a key strategic priority. With Europe trying to wean itself off Russian gas, and the possibility of far more serious Western sanctions looming should the crisis deepen, Moscow needs an alternative.
实际上，自从2012年重登总统之位以来，普京就已经把目光投向了东方。虽说如此，在乌克兰问题上和西方关系搞僵，使得俄罗斯与亚洲的关系，尤其是与作为经济引擎的中国的关系，成了关键的战略重心。欧洲正在试图摆脱对俄罗斯天然气的依赖，而且如果危机加剧，西方有可能实施严厉得多的制裁，所以莫斯科需要一个替代性的选择。
Mr. Putin has stressed repeatedly in recent weeks that Russia sees its economic future with China, noting that its Asian neighbor was on track to surpass the United States as the leading global economic power. A tilt to the East is also in keeping with Mr. Putin’s recent turn to a conservative nationalist ideology, emphasizing religion, family values and patriotism in contrast to what he sees as the increasingly godless, relativist and decadent West.
最近几周，普京一再强调，俄罗斯认为其经济前景系于中国，并指出这个亚洲邻国有望超越美国，成为全球第一的经济强国。而且，亲近东方的做法，也和普京最近转向保守的民族主义意识形态保持了一致。这种意识形态强调宗教、家庭价值观和爱国主义，跟普京认为越来越不信神明、相对主义盛行的颓废西方形成了对比。
“Today, Russia firmly places China at the top of its foreign trade partners,” Mr. Putin said in an interview with Chinese journalists on the eve of his visit, according to a transcript released Monday by the Kremlin. “In the context of turbulent global economy, the strengthening of mutually beneficial trade and economic ties, as well as the increase of investment flows between Russia and China, are of paramount importance.”
“如今，俄罗斯坚定地把中国视为最重要的外贸伙伴，”普京在出访前夕接受中国记者采访时表示。克里姆林宫于周一发布了相关采访记录。“在全球经济动荡不安的背景下，加强互惠互利的经贸关系及俄中两国之间的投资增长是重中之重。”
Mr. Putin’s announcement of a pullback of Russian forces from the Ukraine border was likely to help calm the situation there before presidential elections scheduled for Sunday.
普京宣布俄罗斯军队撤离俄乌边境的表态，有可能在预定于周日进行的乌克兰大选之前，帮助缓和局势。
It was also the third time Mr. Putin had announced a pullback without any evidence of troops actually departing, the NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, noted Monday at a news conference in Brussels.
北约秘书长安诺斯·福格·拉斯穆森(Anders Fogh Rasmussen)本周一在布鲁塞尔举行的新闻发布会上表示，这也是普京第三次宣布撤兵但却没有一丝一毫的撤离证据。
The centerpiece of Mr. Putin’s two-day visit to China could well be a long-stalled deal with Russia to ship natural gas from new Siberian fields to China starting around 2019. The two have been haggling over the deal for a decade, but could not agree on a price for the gas.
在普京为期两天的中国之行中，中心议题很可能是一个长期遭到搁置的协议：从2019年左右开始，俄罗斯从新西伯利亚油田输送天然气到中国。10年来，双方对这个协议讨价还价，但一直没有在天然气价格上达成一致。
Experts anticipate that Russia is finally prepared to come to terms, if only to let Washington and Western Europe know that it has other markets for its gas and important friends in the world.
专家预计，俄罗斯终于准备好了达成协议，就算仅仅是为了让华盛顿和西欧知道，他们的天然气还有其他销路，而且他们还拥有在世界上举足轻重的朋友。
“Because of this current disaster in our relations with the West, they have no alternative,” said Vasily B. Kashin, a China expert at the Center for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies, a Moscow policy organization. “They need to go to Asia to make any deals possible as quickly as possible.”
“因为目前我们与西方关系太僵，也没别的办法，”瓦西里·卡申(Vasily Kashin)说。他是总部位于莫斯科的政策研究机构战略与科技分析中心(Center for Analysis of Strategies and Technology)的中国问题专家。“他们需要去亚洲，尽快达成不管什么协议。”
Mr. Putin is due in Normandy on June 6 for the 70th anniversary of the D-Day invasion. He is likely to meet with President Obama and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to discuss the Ukraine crisis. Brandishing a new gas deal with China would strengthen Mr. Putin’s hand, helping deflate the threat of Western sanctions.
普京将在6月6日举行的诺曼底登陆70周年纪念活动中亲临现场。他很可能会在那里和美国总统奥巴马、德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)讨论乌克兰危机。如果普京握有和中国新签订的天然气协议，西方制裁的威慑作用就会遭到削弱。
In the interview with Chinese journalists, Mr. Putin noted that bilateral trade with China last year was close to $90 billion. Although Russian trade with the European Union as a bloc is far larger, amounting to some $370 billion in 2012, trade with China is on par with leading individual partners like Germany. Trade with the United States was only $26 billion in 2012.
在接受中国记者采访时，普京指出，中俄去年的双边贸易额接近900亿美元（约合5600亿元人民币）。虽然俄罗斯与整个欧盟的双边贸易规模要比这大得多，2012年的总金额约为3700亿美元，但从单个国家来看，俄罗斯与中国的贸易规模跟与德国等最重要的合作伙伴处在同一水平。2012年俄美贸易额只有区区260亿美元。
Russia and China, which share a border of more than 2,600 miles, have long had uneasy relations. Russia, wary about the economic gorilla along its southern borders, blocked Chinese investment, particularly in fields considered strategic like energy, except for two small deals. Mr. Putin on Monday clearly enunciated a more welcoming message.
俄罗斯和中国的边境线超过2600英里（约合4200公里），长期以来关系都不算和睦。俄罗斯对紧邻其南疆的经济巨人抱有戒心，因此阻挠中国对俄投资，特别是在被视为具有战略意义的能源等领域，只有两个小型协议成为例外。本周一，普京明确表达了对中国更加欢迎的态度。
“That is a big shift,” said Clifford Gaddy, of the Brookings Institution in Washington and the author of a book on Mr. Putin, “and indicates how serious they are in taking a step toward China.”
“这是一项重大转变，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)驻华盛顿的学者克里夫·盖迪(Clifford Gaddy)说，“表明俄罗斯对与中国拉近关系有多么认真。”盖迪写过一本关于普京的书。
Mr. Gaddy added, “It is a shift in rhetoric, and we will see if it is followed up with a shift in action.”
他还表示，“这是言论上的转变，我们可以看一看，他们的行动是否会跟着转变。”
In highlighting that the sanctions are helping to disrupt the Russian economy, the Obama administration has virtually ignored that it is pushing Russia toward greater dependence on China, Mr. Gaddy noted.
盖迪指出，奥巴马政府强调制裁正在扰乱俄罗斯的经济，却几乎无视其推动俄罗斯变得更加依赖中国。
The Russians are hoping that China will also agree to help build a bridge linking the mainland to the Crimean port of Kerch, lending not only valuable expertise but also tacit endorsement of an annexation that much of the world considers illegal. There is no current land link to the annexed territory.
俄罗斯希望中国同意帮助他们修建一座桥梁，把克里米亚的刻赤港口跟俄罗斯的大片疆土连接起来。这不仅是提供宝贵的专业知识，而且也是默认俄罗斯对克里米亚的吞并。世界上很多地方都认为，这种吞并是非法的。俄罗斯与其吞并的领土之间没有任何陆路连接。
China abstained from a United Nations Security Council vote in March rejecting the referendum that Russia organized in Crimea before annexing it. That earned China special praise from Mr. Putin in his speech announcing the annexation.
今年3月，联合国安理会投票反对克里米亚公投，中国投了弃权票。在吞并克里米亚之前，俄罗斯组织了那次公投。由于中国投了弃权票，普京在宣布合并克里米亚时赞扬了中国。
Russia and China are also scheduled to hold joint naval exercises in China toward the end of the month, and President Xi Jinping was one of the few world leaders to put in an appearance at the Winter Olympics in Sochi.
俄罗斯和中国还计划本月底在中国举行联合海军演习，而且习近平主席还是为数不多的在索契冬奥会上露面的大国首脑之一。