DONETSK, Ukraine — For weeks, a seemingly unstoppable pro-Russian separatist movement steamrollered through eastern Ukraine. The government’s soldiers proved incompetent or switched sides, and the police readily surrendered their weapons.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——几周以来，一场看似不可阻挡的亲俄分离运动席卷了乌克兰东部。事实证明，政府的士兵很不称职，甚至还会倒戈，警察则随时可能缴械投降。
When the first formidable obstacle to the pro-Russian forces emerged last week, it was not a general or paramilitary leader but, improbably, the owner of a large corporation, Rinat Akhmetov.
对于亲俄势力来说，第一个难以逾越的障碍在上周出现了。出人意料的是，出面的不是一位将军，也不是准军事组织领导人，而是一家大公司的老板里纳特·艾哈迈托夫(Rinat Akhmetov)。
Mr. Akhmetov, the son of a Soviet coal miner who amassed a fortune from contentious privatizations in the 1990s, is ranked by Forbes magazine as the 92nd richest man in the world and is by far the wealthiest person in Ukraine, with a net worth of $12.4 billion.
艾哈迈托夫是一名苏联矿工的儿子，上世纪90年代在充满争议的私有化进程中聚敛了财富。《福布斯》(Forbes)杂志称，他在全球最富有的人中位列92，目前是乌克兰首富，拥有124亿美元（约合774亿元人民币）净资产。
He is now leading the charge against the separatists, calling for steelworkers and coal miners in his employ to resist, and pointing out that they would lose their export-dependent jobs if the region became an unrecognized splinter state.
现在他正在领导反分裂活动，号召自己企业里的钢铁工人和煤矿工人抵制分裂。他还指出，这些工人的工作依赖于商品出口，如果该地区成为了一个不被承认的分裂国家，工人们就会失业。
In a statement posted on the website of his company, System Capital Management, Mr. Akhmetov issued on Monday his sharpest critique to date of the separatist cause, clearly ending months of fence sitting. “Is looting in cities and taking peaceful citizens hostages a fight for the happiness of our region?” he asked. “No, it is not! It is a fight against the citizens of our region.”
他的系统资本管理公司（System Capital Management，简称SCM）在网站上张贴了一份声明。艾哈迈托夫在该声明中发表了他迄今为止对分裂分子最严厉的批判，这明显表示，他已经结束了数月以来的观望态度。“在城市里抢劫，把和平的公民掠为人质，这是在为我们地区的福祉战斗吗？”他问。“不，这不是！这是在和我们地区的公民开战。”
Unlike in Russia, where President Vladimir V. Putin banished oligarchs from politics, the wealthy remain powerful and independent forces in Ukraine. So a tug of war between Ukraine and pro-Russian groups has also been waged for the backing of the superrich, with Mr. Akhmetov as the prize.
在俄罗斯，总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)把寡头驱逐出了政界，但在乌克兰，富人仍然拥有强大而独立的势力。因此，乌克兰和亲俄团体之间也在展开一场争取超级富豪支持的拉锯战，艾哈迈托夫就是双方争夺的目标。
But for Ukrainians who watched as Mr. Akhmetov deftly navigated the country’s treacherous political waters over the years, the question was not whether he would succeed in defeating the separatist challenge, but why he chose to move now, and what was in it for him.
但是多年以来，乌克兰人已经见识到，艾哈迈托夫可以游刃有余地在该国诡谲的政治水域中游走。对于他们而言，问题不是他能否成功击败分裂分子的挑战，而是他为什么会选择现在行动，他可以从中得到什么好处。
Mr. Akhmetov, one of the most puzzling characters in Ukraine’s post-Soviet history, lives in a mansion surrounded by a botanical garden and, until now, had an aversion to publicity. He was a onetime confidant of President Viktor F. Yanukovych, who was ousted in February.
艾哈迈托夫是苏联解体后乌克兰历史上最令人琢磨不透的人物之一。他居住的豪宅四周环绕着植物，此前一直不喜欢公开露面。他曾与今年2月被赶下台的乌克兰前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)关系紧密。
Like many of the post-Soviet wealthy, Mr. Akhmetov is reputed to have emerged from a bloody power struggle among organized crime groups in the 1990s that sought to control the mighty coal and steel assets of the Soviet Union. But once in charge, he quickly set about transforming those assets into corporations, now called Metinvest and DTEK Krymenergo, which are overseen by System Capital Management.
就像苏联解体后的许多富豪一样，艾哈迈托夫据称崛起于上世纪90年代犯罪团伙血腥的权力斗争之中。这些团伙当时都寻求控制苏联庞大的煤矿和钢铁资产。然而在取得控制权之后，艾哈迈托夫很快将这些资产转型为企业，目前叫作Metinvest和DTEK，由SCM管理。
As the result of a leaked document last summer of 1990s-era police surveillance records, new evidence surfaced touching on Mr. Akhmetov’s personal acquaintance with an organized crime kingpin, Alexander Bragin, who went by the nickname Alek the Greek and is as famous for how he died as he was for his life of crime. He and six others in a V.I.P. section of a soccer stadium were killed when a bomb detonated during a Shakhtar Donetsk soccer match in 1996.
去年夏天，上世纪90年代的一份警方监控记录泄密，于是有了新的证据表明，艾哈迈托夫与有组织犯罪头目亚历山大·布拉金(Alexander Bragin)之间有个人关系。布拉金绰号“希腊人阿列克”(Alek the Greek)，布拉金之死和他罪恶的一生同样广为人知。1996年，在顿涅茨克矿工足球俱乐部(Shakhtar Donetsk)的一场比赛中，他和另外六名在贵宾席看球的观众，因遭遇炸弹爆炸而身亡。
Mr. Akhmetov has denied any ties to organized crime, and like many tycoons of the former Soviet space, he has endorsed Western business management ideas. Even at his Komsomolets Donbassa coal mine, where a clanging elevator carries grimy-faced workers into the depths of the earth through tunnels burrowed by Komsomol volunteers three decades ago, Mr. Akhmetov hired the consulting firm McKinsey & Company to optimize the geometry of the shafts for profit and safety, the mine’s director said in an interview.
艾哈迈托夫否认与有组织犯罪存在任何联系，此外就像前苏联地区的许多大亨一样，他推崇西方的商业管理理念。在顿巴斯共青团员煤矿(Komsomolets Donbassa)，叮当作响的升降机穿过30年前由共青团志愿者挖掘的隧道，将满面污浊的工人送至地底深处。煤矿的主管在接受采访时说，为了提高利润和保障安全，艾哈迈托夫甚至聘请了咨询公司麦肯锡(McKinsey & Company)来优化矿井的结构。
System Capital Management depends today on all the banking and trade ties of globalized commerce, which would be severed if the separatists succeeded in carving out an independent region. The West would impose economic sanctions against Russia and the region, which would lose access to vital European markets.
SCM如今需要依赖全球化带来的银行和贸易联系，如果分裂派成功地划出一片区域宣告独立，这些联系就会被切断。西方将对俄罗斯和该区域实施经济制裁，使其无法进入关键的欧洲市场。
It made no sense for Mr. Akhmetov to support pro-Russian forces. But opposing the separatists, particularly after Mr. Putin’s bellicose response to the revolts in February, could be equally ruinous. Mr. Akhmetov could not be absolutely sure that the separatists would fail, even though he knew that most Ukrainians in the east wanted to stay in a united Ukraine. As long as Mr. Putin was in their corner, the separatists had the chance of seizing Donbass; there was even an outside chance that Russia would step in militarily on their behalf, as it had done in Crimea.
支持亲俄势力对艾哈迈托夫不会有任何好处。不过，反对分裂分子可能同样对他不利，尤其是普京今年2月对示威活动采取强硬回应后。艾哈迈托夫无法完全确信分裂分子会失败，虽然他知道东部的大多数乌克兰人想要保持国家统一。只要拥有普京的支持，分裂分子就有机会夺取顿巴斯；甚至还有一种微弱的可能性是，俄罗斯将代表分裂分子实施军事干预，就像它在克里米亚所做的那样。
For months, Mr. Akhmetov stayed quiet, doing his best to appear to support the two sides. When protests started in November, after Mr. Yanukovych pulled out of a trade deal with the European Union in favor of a pact with Russia, Mr. Akhmetov issued largely neutral statements saying he favored integration with both Russia and Europe.
几个月以来，艾哈迈托夫一直保持沉默，尽量表现出对双方的支持。去年11月，亚努科维奇为与俄罗斯签订协议而放弃与欧盟的贸易协议，进而引发了抗议活动。当时，艾哈迈托夫发表了基本上中立的声明，称他支持乌克兰与俄罗斯和欧洲的融合。
He kept the two sides guessing until he felt confident enough to make his move. Just last week, Pavel Gubarev, the self-appointed “people’s governor” of Donetsk, said that Mr. Akhmetov backed the separatists.
艾哈迈托夫一直让双方捉摸不定，直到拥有足够的信心，他才采取了行动。就在上周，顿涅茨克自我任命的“人民州长”帕维尔·古巴廖夫(Pavel Gubarev)还曾表示，艾哈迈托夫支持分裂分子。
“It turns out that two-thirds of the activists are already supported by the oligarch Akhmetov,” he told journalists. “A small number remain true to the idea, but still take money. Everybody takes money.”
他告诉记者，“事实上，三分之二的活动人士已经得到了寡头艾哈迈托夫的支持。少数人坚持着信念，但仍然拿了钱。人人都拿到了钱。”
Yuriy Zinchenko, the director of Ilyich Iron and Steel Works, which sent out patrols by steelworkers last week, said that Mr. Akhmetov had tried to remain “outside of politics” but that neutrality was becoming untenable. “I really believe our future is in a single and undivided Ukraine,” he said.
伊里奇钢铁厂(Ilyich Iron and Steel Works)的负责人尤里·晋琛科(Yuri Zinchenko)上周派出钢铁工人巡逻。晋琛科说，艾哈迈托夫曾尝试“不参与政治”，但这种中立是难以维持的。“我真的认为，一个统一的乌克兰才是我们的未来，”他说。