KIEV, Ukraine — Ukrainian forces pushed deeper into territory controlled by pro-Russian rebels on Tuesday, fighting street battles in the besieged city of Luhansk and pressuring the outer defenses of Donetsk in a further blow to the separatists’ crumbling virtual state.
乌克兰基辅——周二，乌克兰政府军进一步向亲俄叛乱分子控制的区域推进，在其围攻的卢甘斯克市开展巷战，并对顿涅茨克的外围防御形成压力。分裂分子自行成立的国家本已摇摇欲坠，此举对其造成了进一步打击。
While continuing its offensive, the Ukrainian government said it saw a chance for a peaceful settlement after an announcement that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia would meet next Tuesday with his Ukrainian counterpart, Petro O. Poroshenko, and European Union leaders in Minsk, the capital of Belarus.
乌克兰政府在保持攻势的同时表示有机会进行和解。在此之前传出消息，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)将于下周二在白俄罗斯首都明斯克与乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)及欧盟领导人会面。
“I come with positive news; I think we have a chance to switch to a real road map towards a peaceful process,” Valery Chaly, the deputy head of Ukraine’s presidential administration, said at a news conference in Kiev.
乌克兰总统行政办公室副主任瓦列里·沙利(Valery Chaly)在基辅的新闻发布会上表示，“我带来了积极的消息；我认为我们有机会转换到真正通往和平进程的路线图上。”
Previous efforts toward a settlement, which included a meeting of foreign ministers last week in Berlin, have all failed, and even an agreement on when and how a Russian aid convoy could enter Ukraine has proved elusive. The convoy of more than 260 trucks remained stuck on the Russian side of the border, a week after it left Moscow. Ukrainian officials expressed bewilderment over why many of the Russian trucks appeared to be mostly empty if their only purpose was to deliver humanitarian aid.
之前的种种和解努力均以失败告终，包括多国外交部长上周在柏林召开的会议。事实证明，双方甚至都无法就俄罗斯的救援车队何时及如何进入乌克兰达成一致。由逾260辆卡车组成的车队在离开莫斯科一周后，仍不得不待在边境线的俄罗斯一侧。乌克兰官员表达了己方的困惑：如果说俄罗斯派车队的唯一目的是运送人道主义援助物资，为什么很多卡车基本上是空的？
Despite the repeated diplomatic setbacks, Mr. Chaly said the two countries’ presidents stood a better chance of a breakthrough that could bring an end to the war in eastern Ukraine. Talks have foundered on Russia’s refusal to halt or even acknowledge what Ukraine and its Western supporters say is a steady flow of fighters and military hardware into Ukraine from Russia.
尽管多次遭遇外交挫折，沙利表示，两国总统有更好的机会来取得突破性进展，从而终结乌克兰东部的战争。乌克兰及其西方支持者称俄罗斯不断向乌克兰输送作战人员及军事装备，但俄罗斯拒绝停止行动，甚至不承认存在上述举动，导致谈判失败。
“We all realize that these issues can only be solved at the highest level, at the level of president, especially in the case of Russia,” Mr. Chaly said.
沙利说，“我们都认识到，只有最高层，只有总统才能解决这些问题，特别是在俄罗斯那边。”
On the ground, fighting raged unabated, with Ukraine’s interior minister, Arsen Avakov, asserting that Ukrainian forces had entered the town of Ilovaysk, about 11 miles east of Donetsk, the rebels’ biggest remaining stronghold in eastern Ukraine.
在冲突地区，战事有增无减。乌克兰内政部长阿尔森·阿瓦科夫(Arsen Avakov)宣称，乌克兰部队已经攻入顿涅茨克以东11英里（约合18公里）处的伊洛瓦伊斯克。顿涅茨克是叛乱分子在乌克兰东部剩下的最大根据地。
Ukrainian officials also reported fierce street battles in Luhansk, and said 15 bodies had been recovered from a refugee convoy that fled that city on Monday and was then, according to Ukraine, attacked by rebels fighting to regain control of a strategic highway leading south to the Russian border. The rebels denied hitting a caravan of refugees.
乌克兰官员还通报，卢甘斯克爆发了激烈的巷战，并称他们在难民车队中找到了15具尸体。按照乌方克兰方面的说法，该车队于周一逃离卢甘斯克，后来遭到叛乱分子的袭击。叛乱分子当时之所以发起进攻，是为了夺回向南通往俄罗斯边境的一条战略性公路的控制权。叛军方面否认他们曾袭击难民车队。
The Defense Ministry in Kiev released a video of what it said were survivors of the attack describing how the convoy of vehicles had suddenly come under fire, despite flying white flags. But no photographs or video footage have emerged of the assault.
乌克兰国防部公布了一段视频，称里面的人是这次袭击的幸存者。根据他们的描述，尽管挥舞了白旗，车队仍然遭受了猝不及防的袭击。不过，目前尚未出现直接记录这次袭击的照片或视频。
In Donetsk, which along with Luhansk forms the core of the separatists’ fast-shrinking domain, the rebels struggled to keep control of outlying districts.
在顿涅茨克，叛乱分子已疲于控制周边区域。顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克是叛军快速缩小的势力范围的核心。
Emblematic of the tightening squeeze on the city, an artillery duel broke out Tuesday to the northeast, in Makiivka, as representatives of a rebel Parliament were trying to deliver food to an orphanage for disabled preschool children, called the Special Child Center.
周二，顿涅茨克东北方向的马克耶夫卡爆发了火炮冲突，突显了顿涅茨克受到的日益紧迫的压力。当时，叛军政府的议会代表正试图把食品送到一所接收残障学龄前儿童的孤儿院——特殊儿童中心(Special Child Center)。
In the blighted industrial area, filled with the pipes and smokestacks of an aging coking plant, the rebels took up a position near the orphanage and fired mortars, oblivious to the aid delivery. The Ukrainians then fired back.
这片破败不堪的工业区满是一家老焦化工厂遗留下来的管道和烟囱。叛乱分子占据了孤儿院附近的一个位置，把食品发放抛在了脑后，发动了迫击炮袭击。乌克兰政府军随即予以了回击。
None of the children were hurt, but in the ensuing shelling, at least three people died, and the neighborhood was whipped into a panic.
孤儿院的孩子没有受伤，但在随后的炮击中，至少三人死亡，当地民众一下子陷入恐慌。
In the chaotic scene, women ran through the leafy courtyard clutching the hands of the children, residents emerged from apartments lugging hastily packed bags, and gunshots and explosions echoed among the apartment buildings. On a street called Fifty Years of the Soviet Union, a dead woman lay on the sidewalk.
在混乱中，妇女们紧紧抓着孩子的手，跑过满地落叶的庭院；居民们艰难地拖着匆忙收拾的包裹，从家中逃出来；公寓大楼间回荡着枪声和爆炸声。在一条名为“苏联50年”的街道上，一名死去的女性横在人行道上。
“They just bombarded us,” said Stanislav Nosov, a teenager crouching in the stairway to a basement. “If they are shooting here, the battle for Donetsk has begun.”
“他们不停地轰炸我们，”蹲在地下室楼梯间的少年斯坦尼斯拉夫·诺索夫(Stanislav Nosov)说。“如果他们打到了这里，顿涅茨克的战争就开始了。”
But whether Ukraine’s final push into the city was really underway was unclear.
不过，目前还不清楚乌克兰是否正准备对该市发起致命一击。
A rebel soldier said that the Ukrainian Army had not crossed a bridge over a canal that would indicate a ground assault on Donetsk, and that the din of explosions was in fact just a continuation of what in recent weeks has been a regular barrage into the city from Ukrainian positions outside.
反叛政府的一名士兵称，乌克兰陆军还没有通过运河上的大桥，这意味着他们尚未对顿涅茨克发动地面进攻，爆炸声实际上只是最近几周乌克兰政府军在外围据点对这座城市发动的常规炮击的延续。