KIEV, Ukraine — The security authorities in Ukraine offered the first indication on Wednesday that the deadly political violence afflicting Kiev had spread far beyond the capital, announcing a crackdown on what the Interior Ministry called “extremist groups” that had burned down buildings and seized weapons nationwide.
乌克兰基辅——乌克兰安全当局周三宣布，将镇压内政部所称的“极端组织”，后者在全国各地焚烧建筑物并抢夺武器。这则公告首次表明，困扰基辅的致命性政治暴力已经蔓延到了首都之外的广大区域。
The Interior Ministry announcement of an “antiterrorist operation” across the country came a day after Kiev was gripped with the deadliest mayhem since protests erupted in November, leaving at least 25 dead, including nine police officers. The Health Ministry said that 241 people had been wounded but Ukrainian news accounts put the number at more than 1,000.
就在内政部宣布实施全国“反恐行动”的前一天，基辅陷入了自去年11月抗议爆发以来伤亡最惨重的混乱，共有至少25人死亡，其中包括九名警察。卫生部表示有241人受伤，乌克兰的新闻报道则称，受伤人数超出了1000人。
A statement issued by President Viktor F. Yanukovych’s press office, posted on the presidential website late Wednesday, said that he had agreed to a truce with the main opposition leaders and to start negotiations “with the aim of ending bloodshed and stabilizing the situation in the state in the interests of social peace.” But there was no immediate comment from the opposition, and no sign that riot police officers or protesters in Kiev were pulling back.
周三晚，乌克兰总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的新闻办公室在总统网站上贴出了总统发布的声明，称他已同意和主要的反对派领导人达成停止冲突协议及启动谈判，“目的是终结流血冲突、稳定国家局势，以期维护社会和平”。不过，反对派没有立即作出评论，基辅的防暴警察或抗议者也没有撤退的迹象。
The violence turned a protest encampment in Kiev’s central Independence Square into a fiery war zone on Tuesday and sharply escalated the political crisis that has convulsed the former Soviet republic of 46 million for the past three months. The crisis raised East-West tensions over Ukraine’s future, with Russia denouncing the protesters as Nazi-like coup plotters and the European Union threatening severe sanctions against Ukrainian government leaders.
周二，暴力活动把基辅市中心独立广场的抗议营地变成了激烈的战场，政治危机急剧升级，在过去的三个月里，这场危机已经让这个有4600万人口的前苏联共和国震荡不已。危机加剧了东西方围绕乌克兰未来产生的紧张态势，俄罗斯谴责抗议者是行同纳粹的政变阴谋分子，欧盟(European Union)则威胁要严厉制裁乌克兰政府领导人。
The United States said it might join the European sanctions effort and President Obama pointedly warned that there would be consequences if the Ukrainian military was ordered to end the protests.
美国表示可能会加入欧洲的制裁行动，奥巴马总统有针对性地警告称，如果乌克兰军队奉命制止抗议，将会产生种种后果。
Earlier, President Yanukovych described the violence as an attempt to overthrow the government by his political adversaries, who want to push Ukraine closer to the European Union. “Without any mandate from the people, illegally and in breach of the constitution of Ukraine, these politicians — if I may use that term — have resorted to pogroms, arson and murder to try to seize power,” the president said in a statement.
早些时候，亚努科维奇总统称，暴力活动是他的政治对手推翻政府的尝试，他们想把乌克兰推向欧盟。总统在一则声明中说，“没有人民的授权，这些政客——如果我真可以用这个词的话——就使用屠杀、纵火和谋杀的手段来设法夺取政权，他们的行动是非法的，违反了乌克兰宪法。”
In another indication of the gravity of the crisis, Mr. Yanukovych announced on the presidential website that he had replaced the head of the armed forces, Gen. Volodmyr Zamana, with the commander of the navy, suggesting possible loyalty issues among Mr. Yanukovych’s military leaders. Mr. Yanukovych gave no explanation for the change, but it came as the government has suggested it may deploy the armed forces to quell the violence.
显示危机严重性的另一个迹象是，亚努科维奇在总统网站上宣布，他已用海军司令取代了武装部队的负责人沃洛德米尔·扎马纳(Volodmyr Zamana)上将，此举表明亚努科维奇的军队领导人当中可能存在忠诚度的问题。亚努科维奇没有解释此次换将的原因，不过，此事发生之时，政府已经表示，可能会部署武装部队平暴。
An announcement by the SBU, the Ukraine state security service, offered a new indication of turmoil extending beyond Kiev.
乌克兰国家安全局的声明提供了一个新的迹象，说明动乱已经蔓延到基辅之外。
“In many regions of the country, municipal buildings, offices of the Interior Ministry, state security and the prosecutor general, army units and arms depots, are being seized,” Oleksandr Yakimenko, the head of the SBU, said in a statement.
国家安全局局长奥列克桑德尔·亚基缅科(Oleksandr Yakimenko)在声明中说，“在乌克兰的许多区域，市政建筑、内政部办公室、国家安全局办公室、检察长办公室、部队驻地及军火库正在遭到占领。”
“Courtrooms are being burned down, vandals are destroying private apartments, killing peaceful citizens,” the statement said. Mr. Yakimenko said the past 24 hours had shown “a growing escalation of violent confrontation and widespread use of weapons by extremist oriented groups.”
声明说，“法庭正在遭到焚烧，不法者正在破坏私人公寓，杀害爱好和平的市民。”亚努科维奇说，过去24小时的情况已经表明，“暴力对抗逐步升级，倾向极端主义的团伙大肆使用武器。”
In Kiev on Wednesday, protesters stoked what they called a “ring of fire” separating them from the riot police in a desperate effort to defend the remnants of a stage on Independence Square that has been a focal point of their protests.
周三，基辅的抗议者给他们所称的“火圈”添柴加火，孤注一掷地捍卫独立广场上一座舞台的残墟，那座舞台一直是抗议活动的中心。“火圈”把他们和防暴警察隔开了。
Men staggering with exhaustion dismantled the tents and field kitchens from the protest movement’s earlier, more peaceful phase and hauled their remnants onto the fires. They piled on mattresses, sleeping bags, foam pads and whatever else looked flammable, burning their own encampment in a final act of defiance. The Interior Ministry said all the police officers killed on Tuesday had died from gunshot wounds, although witnesses said it appeared that several officers had been trapped in a burning armored vehicle.
筋疲力尽的抗议者蹒跚着拆除了在较为平静的抗议早期搭建起来的帐篷和营地厨房，把残余的材料拖到火里。在最后的反抗行动中，他们把床垫、睡袋、泡沫垫和所有看上去能烧的东西堆在一起，纵火焚烧了自己的营地。内政部称，周二被打死的所有警察都死于枪伤，不过目击者表示，似乎有几名警察困在了一辆着火的装甲车内。
As the scope of the violence became clear, Russia, President Yanukovych’s most important ally in the crisis, issued a blistering statement blaming the “criminal activities of radical opposition forces” for causing the bloodshed and denouncing European countries for refusing to acknowledge that. When the protests began late last year, demonstrators opposed the government’s rejection of a trade agreement with the European Union.
随着暴力事件的范围逐渐清晰，俄罗斯——亚努科维奇在这场危机中最重要的盟友——发表了言辞激烈的声明，将流血冲突归咎于“极端反对势力的犯罪活动”，并谴责欧洲国家拒绝承认这一事实。抗议活动于去年年末开始时，示威者反对的是政府拒绝与欧盟签署贸易协议。
A statement on Wednesday from the Russian Foreign Ministry described the violence as an attempted coup and even used the phrase “brown revolution,” an allusion to the Nazi rise to power in Germany in 1933. The ministry said Russia would use “all our influence to restore peace and calm.”
俄罗斯外交部周三发表声明，称此次暴力事件是一场未遂政变，甚至使用了“棕色革命”一词，暗指纳粹于1933年夺取德国政权的事件。俄罗斯外交部称，俄罗斯将利用“我们的一切影响力来恢复和平与安宁”。
A spokesman said President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had spoken by telephone with Mr. Yanukovych and expressed support for a swift settlement, but said it was up to Ukraine’s government to resolve it without external interference. “In the president’s view, all responsibility for what is happening in Ukraine rests with the extremists,” Dmitri S. Peskov, the spokesman, told reporters, according to the news agency Interfax.
一名发言人表示，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)已经与亚努科维奇通了电话，表示支持快速解决问题，但普京表示，应由乌克兰政府在不受外界干预的情况下解决问题。据国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，名为德米特里·S·佩斯科(Dmitri S. Peskov)的前述发言人告诉记者，“总统认为，极端分子应为乌克兰的暴力事件负全责。”
On the other side of the barricades in Kiev, scores of exhausted riot police officers, their faces covered in soot, sat slumped on the sidewalk on Khreshchatyk Street, the main artery leading to Independence Square. Reinforcements poured in, massing in European Square, a large roundabout that sits astride main roads leading to the center of the city. One of these was clogged with around a dozen military-style dump trucks, armored cars and other vehicles.
在基辅，路障的另一边，数十名疲惫的防暴警察满面灰尘，瘫坐赫雷夏蒂克街的人行道上，这条街是通往独立广场的主干道。蜂拥而来的援军聚集在欧洲广场(European Square)，这个大型环岛周围是数条通往市中心的主干道。十几辆军用自卸卡车、装甲车和其他车辆占据了其中一条主干道。
But it was unclear whether the authorities had mustered sufficient force to complete the operation they began on Tuesday to clear Independence Square. The security forces did, however, strengthen their grip on the Ukrainian House, a large modern building that had been occupied by protesters. Police officers carted out sacks filled with documents and garbage.
不过，目前尚不清楚，当局是否召集了足够多的军力来完成始于周二的独立广场清场行动。但安全部队确实加强了对乌克兰大厦(Ukrainian House)的控制，此前，这座大型现代建筑一直被抗议者占据。警察用推车将一些装有文件和垃圾的袋子运出了大楼。
Through the day on Wednesday, many thousands of people turned up to help the young men defending Independence Square, suggesting that Kiev remains solidly behind the protesters, providing them an logistical and moral support.
周三当天，数千民众陆续现身，帮助年轻人保卫独立广场，表示基辅市会继续坚定地支持抗议者，并为他们提供后勤及精神支持。
They walked toward the square through a disconcerting scene of charred buildings and smoldering debris, carrying bags of groceries, tires and scrap wood for the fires, and jerrycans of gasoline. Two women walked down a central street of Kiev en route to the square, pushing a shopping cart rattling with ready-made gasoline bombs in wine bottles.
他们走向广场，穿过乱七八糟的烧焦建筑和冒烟瓦砾，手里拿着一个个袋子，里面装着食品杂货、用于生火的轮胎和废木材，以及小罐的汽油。两名女性沿着基辅的一条中心街道走向广场，她们推着的购物车嘎吱作响，里面装有用酒瓶制成的汽油弹。
The Interior Ministry’s announcement of a nationwide crackdown came after witnesses and unofficial news reports from outside the capital said protesters had seized provincial administrative buildings in several regions, including Lviv, a bastion of anti-Yanukovych sentiment in western Ukraine near the border with Poland.
目击者及基辅之外的非官方新闻报道称，抗议者已经占领了几个地区的省级行政大楼，比如乌克兰西部邻近波兰边境的反亚努科维奇堡垒利沃夫。之后，内政部宣布在全国范围内开展镇压行动。
Andriy Porodko, a 29-year-old antigovernment activist in Lviv, said by telephone that protesters had taken control of the central government’s main offices in the region, resuming an occupation that had ended last Sunday. He said they had also raided the local headquarters of the state prosecutor, the Ukrainian security service and several district police stations.
29岁的反政府活动人士安德里·波罗德科(Andriy Porodko)在利沃夫通过电话表示，抗议者已经控制了中央政府在该地区的主要办公场所，重新开始了上周日结束的占领行动。他表示，他们还突袭了州检察官、乌克兰安全部门及几个区警察局在当地的办公室。
Most ominously, said Mr. Porodko, who last month organized a blockade of an Interior Ministry garrison on the outskirts of Lviv, around 1,000 protesters had stormed the garrison, which serves as the headquarters of the Interior Ministry’s western regional command, seizing control of barracks and weapons stores. A local journalist said that around 140 guns were seized from Lviv’s central police station.
上个月，波罗德科曾组织人手封锁了内政部在利沃夫郊区的一个要塞。他表示，最具预示意义的是，当时有大约1000名抗议者突袭了这个要塞，控制了兵营和武器库。该要塞是内政部西部地区指挥部的总部。一名当地记者表示，他们从利沃夫中央警察局抢到了大约140支枪。
In Kiev, the fires kept security forces and their vehicles away from the stage as police officers seemed unwilling to risk driving through the blazes. It was unclear how long the debris of the protesters’ tent camp could fuel the bonfires sufficiently to prevent an assault by security forces.
在基辅，火势致使安全部队及其车辆无法接近广场舞台，因为警察似乎不愿冒险开车穿过烈火。目前尚不清楚，抗议者帐篷营地的残留物还能让猛烈的火势维持多长时间，帮他们抵挡安全部队的攻击。