KIEV, Ukraine — As ranks of riot police officers, Interior Ministry troops and even the president vanished Saturday from the capital, Ukraine slipped, with often-eerie calm after months of tumultuous protests and a week of bloody mayhem, into the hands of revolution.
乌克兰基辅——上周六，大队的警察、内政部部队乃至总统本人都从首都销声匿迹，于是，经历了数月狂暴抗议和一周血腥骚乱之后，乌克兰在一片时常显得诡异可怖的宁静之中滑入了革命者的掌握。
Gone along with President Viktor F. Yanukovych, who had fled to eastern Ukraine, was any trace of a Friday peace deal that had sought to freeze the country’s tumult by trimming the powers of the president while allowing him to stay in office until the end of the year.
总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)已经逃到乌克兰东部，和他一同销声匿迹的还有上周五达成的和平协议，该协议力图冻结乌克兰的骚乱，手段则是削减总统的权力，同时允许他留任到年底。
At the president’s mist-shrouded residential compound just outside the capital in Mezhgorye, Sergey Belaus, a major in Ukraine’s State Protection service, said he had handed over control of Mr. Yanukovych’s living quarters and his tennis court to the head of a small band of antigovernment militants at 9 a.m.
总统官邸位于首都近郊的梅日戈尔耶镇，在这座薄雾笼罩的官邸，乌克兰国家保卫机构的少校谢尔盖·贝劳斯(Sergey Belaus)说，当日上午九点，他已经把亚努科维奇宅邸及其网球场的控制权交给了一小队反政府武装分子的头领。
“He came. We talked, and we agreed that he would now be in charge,” said Mr. Belaus, recounting that helicopters and cars had fled the compound, on a bluff overlooking the Dnieper River, overnight. He said he did not know where Mr. Yanukovych had gone.
“他来了。我们谈了谈。我们一致同意，现在由他控制局面，”贝劳斯说。他讲述了昨天夜里的情形，那时候，一些直升飞机和车辆从总统官邸逃了出去。官邸坐落在崖边，俯瞰着第聂伯河。他说，他不知道亚努科维奇去了哪里。
Also unknown is what now fills the vacuum left by Mr. Yanukovych’s departure: perhaps an orderly new leadership headed by established opposition parties, perhaps a chaotic cacophony of voices driven by the passions of the street or, most ominously of all, perhaps the establishment of two or more rival power centers pushing the fractured nation into a Yugoslav-style disintegration.
另一个未知之数是，亚努科维奇离去留下的真空会由什么东西来填补：也许是一个以成熟反对党为首的秩序井然的新领导层，也许是由街头激情驱动的一片混乱喧嚣，最不祥的则也许是两个或更多互相敌对的权力中心的组建，它们会把这个四分五裂的民族推入南斯拉夫式解体的深渊。
Fear of the establishment of rival power centers gained ground on Saturday when Mr. Yanukovych, having left the capital, popped up on television from Kharkiv, a Russian-speaking and strongly pro-Russian city in the east of the country near the Russian border. He said he had not resigned, had no plans to do so and was consulting with supporters in the east about what to do next.
周六，已离开首都的亚努科维奇现身电视，当时他身处乌克兰东部城市哈尔科夫，该市位于俄罗斯边境，普遍说俄语，强烈倾向于俄罗斯。亚努科维奇的现身使人们更加担忧，该国可能会出现相互敌对的权力中心。亚努科维奇说他还没辞职，而且不打算这么做，还说他正在和东部的支持者商讨下一步的行动。
“I am a legitimately elected president,” he said defiantly. “What is happening today, mostly, it is vandalism, banditism, and a coup d’état.”Kharkiv has strong ties to Russia. Early Soviet leaders — doubtful of Kiev’s loyalty, fearful of Ukrainian-speaking regions farther west but determined to anchor Ukraine under Moscow’s control — chose Kharkiv as the capital of their newly established Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, a nominally autonomous entity but entirely controlled by Moscow.
他挑衅地说，“我是合法选出的总统。今天发生的一切大体是一种蓄意破坏，是土匪行为，是一场政变。”哈尔科夫和俄罗斯关系密切。早期的苏联领导人对乌克兰的忠诚心存怀疑，并且对说乌克兰语的西部遥远地区感到担忧，但还是决定把乌克兰置于莫斯科的控制之下，于是将哈尔科夫定为他们新成立的乌克兰苏维埃社会主义共和国的首都。这个共和国名义上拥有自治权，但却彻底受控于莫斯科。
Southern Ukraine, especially the region of Crimea, also has strong ties to Russia. Pro-Russian politicians in Crimea have been demanding autonomy from Kiev and even “protection” for their aspirations from Moscow, which has a large military presence in the Black Sea region, notably in Sevastopol, a port city with a huge Russian naval base.
乌克兰南部地区，尤其是克里米亚地区，也和俄罗斯关系紧密。亲俄的克里米亚政客一直在要求脱离基辅实现自治，甚至为这种愿望请求莫斯科的“保护”，后者在黑海地区驻扎了大批军队，最明显的是塞瓦斯托波尔地区，这是一座港口城市，市里有一座巨大的俄罗斯海军基地。
If Mr. Yanukovych sought to rally the east of Ukraine to his side, the west of the country, long a bastion of fierce Ukrainian nationalism, would almost certainly respond by mobilizing its own forces to protect the idea of a single nation.
如果亚努科维奇力图把东乌克兰地区团结到自己身边，西部地区几乎肯定会作出回应，发动自身力量来保护单一民族的理念，因为西部历来是狂热乌克兰民族主义的堡垒。
All this presents an unwelcome distraction for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who has been busy at the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi trying to present a softer, friendlier image of his country to a suspicious world. But, with the Olympics set to end on Sunday, Mr. Putin will no doubt turn all his attention to a drama that has driven a key Russian ally from Kiev and now threatens to install a new government dominated by people Moscow has characterized as extremists, terrorists and even Nazis.
对俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)来说，所有这一切都是令人烦恼的干扰，他一直忙于索契冬奥会，试图向疑虑重重的世界呈现一个更温和、更友好的俄罗斯形象。然而，随着奥运会依计划在周日结束，普京无疑会把所有注意力转向这出大戏，因为它已经把俄罗斯的一位核心盟友赶出了基辅，眼看就要安插新政府上台，而俄方认为，控制新政府的都是极端分子、恐怖分子乃至纳粹。
The east-west divide has bedeviled Ukraine since it first emerged as an independent state after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union. In each election since, voters have split along a line running roughly through the middle of the country.
乌克兰在1991年苏联解体后首次成为独立国家，此后就一直因东西部的态度分歧而饱受折磨。那之后的每次选举当中，选民们都会沿着大致贯穿国家中部的一条分界线发生分裂。
But these divisions have grown into a gaping chasm in recent months as the Ukrainian-speaking west has rallied unambiguously behind protesters in Kiev’s Independence Square while many in the east, their views shaped in part by doom-laden reports on widely watched Russian television, have recoiled in horror at what they saw as an attempt to oust a legitimate, democratically elected leader viewed as one of their own.
然而，近几个月，这种分歧已经扩展成一道巨大的鸿沟，原因是说乌克兰语的西部地区已经毫不含糊地团结在基辅独立广场的抗议者身后，东部的许多人却惊恐地退却了。东部这些人的观点部分受到了收视广泛的俄罗斯电视台通篇尽是负面信息的报道的影响，他们认为，这场抗议是一种尝试，目的是赶走一位合法的民选领袖、他们眼中的自己人。
Mr. Yanukovych built his political career in Donetsk, an eastern coal-mining and industrial center whose bleak Soviet-era urban landscape is a world away from the elegant and proudly European splendor of western cities like Lviv.
亚努科维奇在顿涅茨克建构了自己的政坛生涯。顿涅茨克是东部的采煤和工业中心，呈现出一派肃杀的苏联时代城市景观，完全不同于利沃夫等西部城市的典雅风格和引以为豪的欧式堂皇。
These stark divisions, rooted in history, language and culture, have put Ukraine on a fault line that has shaped not only the country’s domestic politics but also a geopolitical struggle between Russia and the West at the heart of Ukraine’s current tumult. The protests in Independence Square began in November after Mr. Yanukovych rejected a sweeping trade and political deal with the European Union and turned to Moscow for help.
这些根植于历史、语言和文化的突兀分歧，已把乌克兰推到了断层线，这条断层线不仅框定了该国的内政格局，而且影响了俄罗斯和西方的地缘政治斗争，这种斗争正是乌克兰当下这场骚乱的核心。独立广场的抗议始于去年11月，起因正是亚努科维奇拒绝与欧盟签署一项广泛的贸易和政治协议，转而向俄罗斯寻求帮助。
Looming over this struggle, and over the prospects of survival for whatever government emerges in Kiev, is a stark question: Who will help fill the depleted coffers of a country on the brink of bankruptcy and crippled by arguably one of the most troubled economies in the world?
不管基辅会出现一个什么样的政府，这场斗争和新政府的生存前景都面临一个严峻的问题：对这个处在破产边缘、经济极其困窘的国家而言，谁能帮助它补充业已枯竭的财政资金。
Russia was willing back in December, offering $15 billion and cheap natural gas. But the price Moscow exacted in return, a future in the Russian orbit, only inflamed the protests. A rejection of Russian aid seems to have been one of the conditions set by European diplomats who helped mediate the now-moribund political deal on Friday between Mr. Yanukovych and three opposition leaders.
12月时，俄罗斯是愿意的。当时，俄罗斯愿意提供150亿美元（约合910亿元人民币）的资金和廉价天然气。但莫斯科索要的回报，即日后唯俄罗斯马首是瞻，反而让抗议火上浇油。拒绝俄罗斯的援助似乎正是欧洲外交官设下的条件之一。周五，这些欧洲外交官从中斡旋，让亚努科维奇和三名反对派领袖达成了那项现已夭折的政治协议。
Russia’s envoy at the talks, unlike the Europeans, refused to sign the final agreement. And while Washington and European capitals cheered the accord as a breakthrough that could end a lethal spiral of violence, Moscow raised niggling legal points about constitutional changes.
不同于欧洲人，参与会谈的俄罗斯代表拒绝签署前述最终协议。美国和欧洲各国庆祝达成协议，称其是突破性进展，有望终结乌克兰致命性暴力活动升级，俄罗斯却提出了有关宪法改革的繁琐法律事项。
Europe’s determination to force a deal was captured by a television camera that filmed Radoslaw Sikorski, the Polish foreign minister, giving a blunt warning to opposition leaders. “If you don’t support this, you will have martial law, the army,” Mr. Sikorski said as he hurried out of a room at the presidential administration. “You’ll all be dead.”
电视摄像机拍到了波兰外长拉多斯瓦夫·西科尔斯基(Radoslaw Sikorski)直言警告反对派领袖的镜头，捕捉到了欧洲强力促成协议的决心。“如果不支持这项协议，你们就会面临军事管制和军队镇压，”西科尔斯基在匆匆走出总统办公厅的一个房间时说，“到时候你们都死定了。”
With protesters now in control of the presidential compound in Mezhgorye and the government district of Kiev, the deal lies in ruins. It is now Mr. Yanukovych who risks being killed if he shows his face in Kiev. But the economic mess that drove much of the anger against him remains, only now it is Europe and America that must help Ukraine.
如今，抗议者控制了梅日戈尔耶的总统官邸和基辅的政府区，协议也被撕毁。如今，面临丧命风险的变成了亚努科维奇，如果他在基辅现身的话。然而，引发针对他的大部分怒火的经济混乱依然存在，只不过，必须帮助乌克兰的变成了欧洲和美国。
The agreement signed Friday did not explicitly reject money from Russia, but Europe and the United States have been leaning heavily on Kiev to accept that only a Western aid package led by the International Monetary Fund can rescue Ukraine’s economy.
周五签署的协议并未明确表示拒绝俄罗斯提供的资金，但欧洲和美国一直在极力敦促乌克兰接受一个观念，即只有国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）主导的西方援助计划才能拯救乌克兰的经济。
“The United States view — and I believe this view is shared by our European allies and partners — is that the only viable route back to sustainable economic health for Ukraine goes through the I.M.F.,” said a senior state department official speaking on the condition of anonymity on Friday.
“美国的观点——相信我们的欧洲盟友和合作伙伴也认同这个观点——是，让乌克兰经济回归可持续健康态势的唯一可行途径是通过IMF，”周五，美国国务院一名高官匿名表示。
To this point, however, neither Washington nor Brussels has figured out how exactly to come to the aid of one of the most corrupt and inefficient economies in the world without being dragged into the sinkhole with it.
然而，美国和欧洲迄今仍未弄清，如何在自己不被拖入这个深渊的前提下救助全世界最腐败、效率最低的经济体之一。
“Nobody wants to end up owning all the problems that Ukraine faces,” said Mark Leonard, director of the European Council on Foreign Relations. “The country is bankrupt, it has a terrible, broken system of government and insane levels of corruption.”
“大家都不想沾上乌克兰现在面临的这些问题，”欧洲对外关系委员会(European Council on Foreign Relations)主席马克·莱昂纳德(Mark Leonard)说，“乌克兰已经破产，它的政府体系十分糟糕，四分五裂，腐败达到了疯狂的程度。”
With this in mind, Europe and the United States have largely subcontracted the job to the I.M.F., which has been negotiating with Kiev for months over an aid package that, unlike the money offered by Moscow, has numerous strings attached, notably requirements that Ukraine scythe a thicket of bureaucratic regulations and cut subsidies that keep domestic energy prices low — and cripple the government’s finances.
考虑到这一点，欧洲和美国基本上将这项工作转包给了IMF。数月来，IMF一直在和乌克兰就一项一揽子援助计划进行谈判。不同于俄罗斯愿意提供的资金，这项援助计划带有诸多附加条件，尤其是要求乌克兰大刀阔斧地精简冗繁的官僚监管手续、减少让国内能源价格保持在低位的补贴、压缩政府的财源。
American and European officials have indicated that the I.M.F. might be ready to relax conditions that, if imposed on Ukraine’s new government, would only stoke public anger and jeopardize the survival of what is likely to be a very fragile and fractious leadership.
美国和欧洲官员指出，IMF可能会放宽相关条件。如果把这些条件强加给乌克兰的新一届政府，可能只会引发公众愤怒，危及新一届领导层的生存，后者多半会非常脆弱、难以驾驭。
After three months of chanting “bandits out,” Ukraine’s protesters appear to have finally achieved their goal. But whoever now comes in will inherit a country bereft of money, political consensus, a unifying culture and even rudimentary agreement among citizens on what their nation is.
喊了三个月的“强盗滚蛋”之后，乌克兰的抗议者似乎终于实现了自己的目标。但现在不管谁上台，摆在眼前的都是一个失去了资金、政治共识和统一文化的国家，甚至连自己是什么民族，这个国家的民众都没有达成基本共识。