KIEV, Ukraine — Struggling to reach a deal to form a new majority coalition in Parliament, and under excruciating pressure because of a looming economic disaster, the Ukrainian lawmakers temporarily running the country on Tuesday delayed until Thursday the naming of an acting prime minister and a provisional government.
乌克兰基辅——暂时执掌乌克兰的议会议员正在努力达成协议，以期在议会中组建新的多数联盟，与此同时，他们也面临着步步逼近的经济灾难造成的沉重压力。周二，这些议员将代理总理和临时政府的任命推迟到了周四。
The delay underscored the extreme difficulty that lawmakers now face in rebuilding the collapsed government left behind when President Viktor F. Yanukovych fled Kiev on Saturday and was removed from power in a vote supported by some members of his own party.
议员们正在重建维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)总统留下的瓦解政府，推迟任命一事突显了他们面临的重重困难。周六，亚努科维奇逃离基辅，并在一次投票中被赶下台，这次投票得到了他自己所在党派部分成员的支持。
The three main opposition parties, which share little in common politically, have been in fierce negotiations, not just among themselves, but also with civic activists and other groups representing the many constituencies involved in Ukraine’s three months of civic uprising.
在政治上鲜有共同之处的三大反对党一直在进行激烈谈判，不仅相互谈判，还和民权活动人士及其他一些组织谈判。这些组织代表着参与了乌克兰长达三个月的公民起义的许多选民。
Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, the leader in Parliament of the Fatherland Party and a leading contender to serve as acting prime minister, pleaded with colleagues to swiftly reach an agreement on the designation of an interim government, which is needed to formally request emergency economic assistance from the International Monetary Fund.
祖国联盟(Fatherland Party)在议会中的领袖、呼声最高的代理总理人选阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)吁请同僚迅速就任命临时政府一事达成一致。要正式请求国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)提供紧急经济救助，乌克兰就必须成立临时政府。
“The deadline is Thursday, and I urge all democratic parties and all democratic persons and all democratic M.P.'s urgently to finalize the deal on the coalition,” Mr. Yatsenyuk told reporters outside the Parliament chamber. “We need urgently to hammer out this deal and to form the new government who is to be in charge of the country.”
“周四是最后期限，我呼吁所有民族党派、所有民主人士和所有民主议员尽快达成关于联盟的协议，”亚采纽克在议会大厅外告诉记者，“我们必须尽快敲定这个协议，组成掌管国家的新政府。”
“It’s not about the personalities,” Mr. Yatsenyuk added. “This is about the responsibility. You know to be in this government is to commit political suicide, and we need to be very frank and open.”
“此事无关个性，”亚采纽克补充说，“关乎责任。你们都知道，在这个政府任职就等于政治自杀，我们都必须非常坦诚、非常公开。”
A $15 billion bailout package secured by Mr. Yanukovych from Russia in December has been suspended, and Ukraine is now hurtling toward default. The value of the currency, the hryvnia, has fallen sharply, and the country’s bond rating has been downgraded so steeply by ratings agencies that the country effectively can no longer borrow on the international markets.
亚努科维奇去年12月从俄罗斯获得的一项价值150亿美元（约合920亿元人民币）的救助计划已被暂停，乌克兰正在快速滑向违约。乌克兰的货币格里夫纳大幅贬值，评级机构也大幅下调了对乌克兰债券的评级，以致该国实际上无法再在国际市场上借到钱。
Foreign reserves have plummeted, and the Ukrainian government will soon be unable to pay public salaries or pensions. In a statement on Monday, the acting finance minister said the country would need a staggering $35 billion in assistance between now and the end of next year.
外汇储备骤减，乌克兰政府很快就将无力支付公职人员的薪水和养老金。代理财政部长在周一的声明中称，从现在到明年年底，乌克兰需要高达350亿美元的援助。
As a manhunt continued for Mr. Yanukovych, who is now wanted in Kiev on charges of mass murder, a Ukrainian news agency reported that his chief of staff, who was believed to be traveling with the fugitive former president, had been shot in the leg.
亚努科维奇已因涉嫌集体谋杀而在基辅遭到通缉，对他的追捕依然在继续。与此同时，乌克兰一家新闻机构报道称，他的幕僚长腿部中枪。据信，这名幕僚长一直与这位逃亡的前总统同行。
The news agency, Interfax-Ukraine, quoted a spokesman, Artyom Petrenko, as saying that the chief of staff, Andriy Klyuyev, had been wounded, but, “as far as I know, there is no threat to his life.” Mr. Petrenko was quoted as saying that Mr. Klyuyev had resigned on Sunday. The spokesman gave no details on Mr. Klyuyev’s whereabouts.
这家名为Interfax-Ukraine的新闻机构援引述发言人阿尔乔姆·彼得连科(Artyom Petrenko)的话称，名为安德里·克柳耶夫(Andriy Klyuyev)的幕僚长受了伤，但“据我所知没有生命危险”。报道还援引彼得连科的话称，克柳耶夫已在周日辞职。这名发言人没有给出有关克柳耶夫下落的细节。
In Kiev, the new speaker of Parliament, Oleksandr V. Turchynov, who is a veteran lawmaker and a former acting prime minister, has been designated to carry out the duties of president. On Tuesday, Parliament voted, 316 to 0, to authorize Mr. Turchynov to sign legislation adopted by Parliament.
在基辅，新任议长奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)受命代行总统职责。图奇诺夫是一名资深议员，之前担任过代理总理。周二，议会举行投票，以316票赞成、0票反对的结果授权图奇诺夫签署议会通过的立法。
Underscoring the breakneck pace at which political events have been unfolding here in the capital, campaigning officially began on Tuesday for the emergency presidential election that is now scheduled for May 25.
目前，紧急总统选举定于5月25日举行。周二，竞选活动正式开始，突显了政治事件在乌克兰首都演变的惊人速度。
Vitali Klitschko, the former champion boxer and a leader of one of the main parties in Parliament, the Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform, immediately declared his candidacy for president. Mr. Klitschko had long said that he would run, but his announcement made clear that his presidential ambitions have not been diminished by the release from prison on Saturday of former Prime Minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko, who is also expected to run.
前拳击冠军、政治党派乌克兰改革民主同盟(Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform)的领袖维塔利·克利奇科(Vitali Klitschko)立即宣布参选总统。克利奇科早就声称自己将会参选，而他的声明也清楚表明，虽然前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)已于周六获释，人们认为她也会参加竞选，但他的总统抱负并未衰减。
In other legislative developments on Tuesday, Parliament voted 331 to 0 to schedule elections for mayor of Kiev and the Kiev City Council on the same day. Parliament also voted to give the International Criminal Court in The Hague jurisdiction to handle cases related to the deadly violence by the police against antigovernment demonstrators last week.
周二还出现了其他一些立法方面的进展，议会以331票对0票把基辅市长和市议会的选举安排在了同一天。议会还投票赋予了海牙国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)司法管辖权，使之有权审理上周警方对反政府示威者使用的致命暴力。
The Ukrainian authorities have already said that dozens of officials are now wanted on charges connected to the deaths last week. It was not immediately clear how the vote on the International Criminal Court might affect the local investigations or change any legal proceedings against former officials.
乌克兰官方已经表示，目前有数十名官员因与上周人员伤亡有关的指控而受到了追捕。现在还不清楚关于国际刑事法院的投票会对乌克兰当地调查产生何种影响，会不会改变任何针对前官员的法律程序。
While Ukraine desperately needs economic aid, which has been promised repeatedly by Brussels and Washington, it was unclear how quickly help would arrive. The International Monetary Fund has made clear that it will demand austerity measures and other long-stalled economic changes in exchange for any assistance package.
乌克兰非常需要经济援助，布鲁塞尔和华盛顿也曾多次承诺提供援助，尽管如此，目前并不清楚援助会在什么时候到来。国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)已明确表示，它将要求乌克兰用一些紧缩政策和其他一些拖延已久的经济变革来换取援助计划。
At a news conference in Kiev on Tuesday, Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, urged the Ukrainian Parliament to form a government that was inclusive and representative of all views, and called for peace and calm. But on her visit, her fourth to Ukraine since the recent crisis started, she brought nothing in the way of concrete help.
周二在基辅召开的新闻发布会上，欧盟外交事务高级代表凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)敦促乌克兰议会组建一个能代表各方面意见的包容性政府，并呼吁该国保持和平安宁。但在此次访问期间，她并没有带来任何实质性的帮助。自近期的危机爆发以来，她已四次访问乌克兰。
Ms. Ashton met with leaders of all the major parties, including Mr. Yanukovych’s Party of Regions, which had controlled the majority until several of its members defected in response to the killing by the authorities of dozens of antigovernment demonstrators last week. And she praised Parliament for filling the power vacuum left when Mr. Yanukovych fled.
阿什顿会见了所有主要党派的领导人，其中包括亚努科维奇的地区党(Party of Regions)，该党曾一度占据议会多数地位，直到上周，该党几名成员因官方杀死数十名反政府示威者而叛党，情况才发生变化。阿什顿对议会表示了赞扬，因为它填补了亚努科维奇逃离之后的权力真空。
“It was interesting for me to see the Parliament, the Rada, functioning,” Ms. Ashton said. “It’s very, very important, in my view, that citizens all across the country can see that the institutions are working and they are working to deliver for the people.”
“在我看来，议会仍在发挥作用是件好事，”阿什顿说。“我认为，全国各地的市民能看到有关机构正在发挥作用，而且正在为人民办事，这一点非常、非常重要。”
In her meetings with politicians and civic activists, she said, “my message to all of them has been: You need to work together.” She added, “You need to work together, and you need to recognize the importance of public accountability for everything you do and to build into your thinking how you will ensure that you are open and transparent and responsive to what the people want.”
她在会见政治人物和民权活动人士时说，“我想对所有人说：你们要携手合作。”她还说，“你们要携手合作，要意识到你所做的每件事都要经得起公众的考验，还要仔细思考如何保证自己的行为公开透明，并且能够满足人民的需求。”
Ms. Ashton said she had been in contact with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, about the situation in Ukraine, and had stressed the importance of preventing violence and safeguarding the territorial integrity of Ukraine.
阿什顿说，她曾就乌克兰的情况与俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)进行交流，并且强调了防止暴力及保卫乌克兰领土完整的重要性。
The Kremlin has said that it views the ousting of Mr. Yanukovych and other actions by the Ukrainian Parliament as illegal, and on Tuesday the Russian Foreign Ministry said it opposed the plans for a presidential election in May because that violated an agreement brokered with Mr. Yanukovych on Friday that had called for elections in December.
克里姆林宫曾表示，他们认为，乌克兰议会驱逐亚努科维奇的做法和其他一些举动均属非法行为。周二，俄罗斯外交部表示反对于5月进行总统选举的计划，因为这样做违反了上周五与亚努科维奇达成的一项协议，该协议要求于12月进行选举。
Russia’s representative at those talks had declined to sign the document, and the agreement seems to have been rendered virtually meaningless by subsequent events.
之前，参与前述协议会谈的俄罗斯代表拒绝签署协议文件，此外，随后发生的事情似乎已经让该协议变得毫无意义。