SLOVYANSK, Ukraine — The Ukrainian government on Sunday for the first time sent its security services to confront armed pro-Russian militants in the country’s east, defying warnings from Russia. Commandos engaged in gunfights with men who had set up roadblocks and stormed a Ukrainian police station in Slovyansk, and at least one officer was killed, Ukrainian officials said.
乌克兰斯洛夫扬斯克——周日，乌克兰政府首次不顾俄罗斯警告，派遣安全部队前往乌克兰东部地区对抗亲俄武装人员。乌克兰官员称，突击队与设立路障、进攻斯洛夫扬斯克某乌克兰警局的人员发生了枪战，至少一名警察在枪战中死亡。
Several officers were injured in the operation, as were four locals, the officials said. Russian news media and residents here disputed that account, saying the Ukrainian forces had only briefly engaged one checkpoint.
乌克兰官员称，有几名警察和四名当地人在行动中受伤。俄罗斯新闻媒体和本地居民不同意这种说法，称乌克兰部队只对一个检查站发动了短暂进攻。
In either case, the central government in Kiev has turned to force to try to restore its authority in the east, a course of action that the Russian government has repeatedly warned against.
不论如何，基辅中央政府都已开始运用武力来恢复它在东部的权威，尽管俄罗斯政府多次警告它不要采取这种做法。
With tens of thousands of Russian troops massed along Ukraine’s eastern border near Donetsk, Western leaders have worried that Moscow might use unrest in Ukraine’s mainly Russian-speaking areas as a pretext for an invasion.
目前有成千上万的俄罗斯士兵集结在顿涅茨克附近的乌克兰东部边境，致使西方领导人担心，莫斯科可能会把乌克兰俄语地区的动荡作为入侵借口。
Both governments intensified their statements on Sunday. Ukraine’s interim president, Oleksandr V. Turchynov, issued another ultimatum, saying separatists should vacate occupied buildings by Monday or face a “large-scale antiterrorist operation” that will include the Ukrainian military. And Russia claimed that the Ukrainian government was cracking down at the behest of American and European officials.
周日，俄乌两国政府都在声明中使用了更加严厉的措辞。乌克兰代理总统奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)又一次发布了最后通牒，称分裂分子必须在周一前撤离他们占领的建筑，否则将面临有乌克兰军队参与的“大规模反恐行动”。俄罗斯则宣称，乌克兰政府的镇压行动是受了美国和欧洲官方的指使。
Ukraine’s ousted president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, speaking late Sunday in Rostov-on-Don, in Russia, echoed Moscow’s charges of American meddling.
周日晚些时候，乌克兰的垮台总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)在俄罗斯顿河畔罗斯托夫附和了莫斯科关于美国干预的指责。
Insisting that he remained Ukraine’s commander in chief despite having fled to Russia more than a month ago, he ordered Ukrainian troops to defy what he called “criminal orders” for a crackdown and said the country stood “on the brink of civil war.”
亚努科维奇于一个多月前逃到俄罗斯，但仍坚称自己是乌克兰最高领袖。他命令乌克兰军队不得遵从他所谓的发动镇压的“罪恶命令”，还说乌克兰正处于“内战边缘”。
The police station contested by Ukrainian forces was one of several security centers in the eastern region of Donetsk seized on Saturday by masked gunmen in coordinated raids that the Ukrainian authorities denounced as Russian “aggression.”
周六，一些头戴面具的持枪者发动了被乌克兰官方谴责为俄罗斯“侵略”的协同袭击，占领了东部地区顿涅茨克的几个安保中心，受到乌克兰军队进攻的警察局正是其中之一。
By Sunday afternoon, the government’s push to reassert its authority in a vitally important industrial and coal-mining region appeared to have made little headway. Pro-Russian protesters appeared to control not only the police station but also the entire town of Slovyansk, having set up checkpoints at major streets leading into town.
乌克兰政府试图重新确立它在这个极其重要的工业和煤炭矿区的权威，但截至周日下午，这番努力似乎进展甚微。亲俄抗议者似乎不仅控制了前述警局，还控制了整个斯洛夫扬斯克，并在进入城镇的主要街道上设立了检查站。
The protesters blocked a major highway in the east, and flags of Russia and their newly declared and unrecognized People’s Republic of Donetsk flew over administrative buildings in several other midsize towns. These included Mariupol, where protesters seized another building Sunday.
抗议者封锁了东部的一条主要公路，其他几座中型城镇的行政大楼也飘扬着俄罗斯国旗，以及抗议者新近宣布但未得认可的顿涅茨克人民共和国(People's Republic of Donetsk)的旗帜。马留波尔(Mariupol)也处于这些城镇之列，抗议者周日占领了这里的另一栋大楼。
Roman Svitan, a security adviser to the Ukrainian authorities in Donetsk, said the operation on Sunday was carried out by Alfa, a special services unit of Ukraine’s state security service. He gave an upbeat assessment of its progress, saying Ukrainian forces had evicted gunmen from the Slovyansk Police Headquarters, though protesters there said nothing of the sort had happened.
顿涅茨克乌克兰当局的安全顾问罗曼·斯维坦(Roman Svitan)说，周日的行动由乌克兰国家安全局特种部队阿尔法(Alfa)执行。他对事情进展的估计比较乐观，称乌克兰部队已经驱逐了斯洛夫扬斯克警察局的持枪者，当地抗议者则表示这种情况并未发生。
Mr. Svitan said that most of the expelled gunmen were local pro-Russian extremists, but that they had also included Russian operatives.
斯维坦说，大多数被驱逐的持枪者都是当地的亲俄极端主义者，但其中也包括俄罗斯特工。
Residents and men standing by barricades in Slovyansk denied that Ukrainian forces had even entered the town on Sunday. They said one local man who had been out fishing was in a hospital with a wound from a shooting on a highway outside town. Russian television and some locals said the Ukrainian nationalist group Right Sector had attacked protesters at a checkpoint, injuring the fisherman.
站在斯洛夫扬斯克各处路障旁边的居民和其他一些人甚至否认乌克兰部队周日曾进入这座城镇。他们说，一名外出垂钓的当地男子因城外公路上发生枪击而受伤，目前已入院治疗。俄罗斯电视台和一些当地人都说，乌克兰民族主义组织“正义部”(Right Sector)在一个检查站对抗议者发动了攻击，前述钓鱼者因此受伤。
Requests to speak to a leader of the armed men produced a man wearing a ski mask who introduced himself as Aleksandr and described himself as a deputy commander of the city of Slovyansk after its merger with the People’s Republic of Donetsk.
记者要求与武装人员的领导人对话，一个戴着滑雪面具的人出面回应。此人自称亚历山大(Aleksandr)，并称自己在斯洛夫扬斯克并入顿涅茨克共和国后担任该市的副指挥。
He gave a different account of the circumstances behind the wounding of the fisherman, saying he was struck by Ukrainian armored personnel carriers that opened fire on a barrier made from a pile of tires on the edge of town, then drove away. “Our guys took cover, and the shooting stopped,” he said.
亚历山大给出了有关钓鱼者受伤事件的不同说法，称那人是被乌克兰的装甲运兵车击中的，这些运兵车向城镇边缘的轮胎路障开火，然后离开。他说，“我们的人躲了起来，后来射击停止了。”
Ukrainian helicopters buzzed over the town around noon, but no soldiers were seen. At one barrier, pro-Russian protesters felled trees across a road into town, guarded by men in ski masks carrying military rifles.
中午时分，乌克兰的直升机在该市上空盘旋，但没有士兵的踪影。在一道路障旁边，亲俄抗议者砍倒了通往该市的一条道路旁的树木，守卫那条道路的是一群戴着滑雪面具、携带军用步枪的人。
Russia’s Foreign Ministry issued a blistering denunciation of the Ukrainian government. In a statement on the ministry’s Facebook page, the Russian government accused the Kiev authorities of threatening violence “against anyone who does not agree with the nationalist-radicals, chauvinistic and anti-Semitic actions” in Kiev that, it said, were being carried out “with direct support from the United States and Europe.”
俄罗斯外交部发表声明，强烈谴责乌克兰政府。外交部在其Facebook主页发表声明，俄罗斯政府在声明中谴责基辅政府，称基辅政府威胁要用暴力对待“任何不赞成基辅民族主义激进分子、沙文主义及反犹太主义行动的人”。声明称，基辅政府获得了“美国和欧洲的直接支持”，正在实施此类行动。
At Russia’s request, an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council was scheduled for Sunday night, at which Ukraine’s ambassador was expected to articulate its version of events. Moscow had asked that the meeting be closed, but Russia’s rivals on the Council declined that request. The meeting was not expected to yield any consensus.
应俄罗斯的要求，联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)定于周日晚间举行紧急会议，乌克兰大使将在会上阐明乌克兰有关该事件的说法。莫斯科方面曾要求闭门举行此次会议，但安理会其它成员国拒绝了这一要求。外界认为此次会议无法达成任何共识。
In Washington, the State Department took the unusual step of issuing a “fact sheet” alleging that Russian officials had made 10 false claims about the crisis in Ukraine.
在华盛顿，国务院(State Department)采取了不同寻常的举措，发布了一份“情况说明”，宣称俄罗斯官员发表了10个有关乌克兰危机的错误说法。
“Russia continues to spin a false and dangerous narrative to justify its illegal actions in Ukraine,” the State Department said. “We would not be seeing the violence and sad events that we’ve witnessed this weekend without this relentless stream of disinformation and Russian provocateurs fostering unrest in eastern Ukraine.”
“俄罗斯继续编造危险的虚假故事，借此证明俄方在乌克兰的非法行动的合理性，”美国国务院称。“如果没有持续不断的虚假信息，如果俄罗斯的煽动者没有在东乌克兰助长动荡局面，我们就不会看到本周末发生的令人痛心的暴力事件。”
According to the State Department, more than a dozen Russian intelligence agents have been arrested by the Ukrainian government in recent weeks, contradicting Moscow’s assertion that its agents were not active in Ukraine.
据美国国务院透露，乌克兰政府最近几周逮捕了十几名俄罗斯情报人员，由此驳斥了莫斯科方面的说法——俄方特工没有在乌克兰开展活动。