KIEV, Ukraine — As opposition leaders negotiated with President Viktor F. Yanukovich to defuse Ukraine’s violent civil uprising, new evidence emerged of brutality by the authorities, including a video of a protester stripped naked except for boots by a group of officers from the feared Berkut riot police.
乌克兰基辅——就在反对派领导人和总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)进行谈判来平息乌克兰国内暴乱之际，揭露当局酷行的新证据出现了。其中一段视频，显示了一名示威者被一群令人生畏的别尔库特(Berkut)防暴警察剥得精光，只剩下一双靴子。
The video shows the naked man standing on snow-covered streets, being photographed by one police officer while several others looked on. Another officer is seen grabbing the man by the back of the neck, forcing him to hold an ice scraper, then slapping him on the head and kicking him as he is directed into a police bus. Welts are visible on the man’s back as he climbs into the bus.
视频显示，这名裸男站在白雪覆盖的街头，一名警察在给他拍照，其他几人则在一旁围观。从视频中还能看见另一名警察抓着男子的后颈，逼迫他拿着一个刮冰器，然后在该男子被带进一辆警用巴士时打他的头、踢他。当男子爬进巴士时，能看到他的背部出现了红肿。
The Interior Ministry, which oversees the riot police, issued an apology and said the episode was under investigation.
管理防暴警察的内政部发表了道歉声明，说正在对此事进行调查。
The video stood to further inflame demonstrators who were still reeling from the first violent deaths in the now two-month-long uprising, threatening to upend a fragile cease-fire. It seemed to reinforce evidence that the authorities or their surrogates were engaging in other brutal tactics, including the killings of protesters.
时至今日，乌克兰内乱已持续两个月，示威者对于出现的第一起暴力死亡事件依然感到震惊。而视频进一步激怒了他们，他们威胁要撕毁原本就脆弱不堪的停火协议。视频似乎进一步证实了，当局或他们的代理人正在参与其他的残忍行径，包括杀害抗议者。
There were also signs of spreading unrest outside of Kiev, the capital. In Lviv, the largest city in Western Ukraine, protesters occupied the regional administration building. The region is a stronghold of support for European integration, the issue that set off the civil uprising in November, and home to many of the most aggressive protesters on the streets in Kiev.
还有迹象显示，这场动乱已经蔓延到首都基辅之外。在乌克兰西部最大的城市利沃夫，抗议者占领了当地的政府大楼。该地区是支持欧洲一体化的据点，正是这个问题于去年11月引发了内乱，此地还是基辅街头许多最激进抗议者的家乡。
Demonstrators similarly laid siege to the regional administration in Rivne, also in the West, where they demanded that riot police officers deployed to Kiev be sent home. There were parallel actions in a number of other cities, including in Cherkasy in central Ukraine, where several thousand demonstrators briefly clashed with the police who protected the administration building and at one point fired several shots in the air, the local news media reported.
示威者还以类似手段，包围了同处西部的里夫尼市的政府机构，他们要求当局把部署在基辅的防暴警察赶回家。在其他许多城市也出现了类似的行动，其中包括乌克兰中部的切尔卡瑟。据当地新闻媒体报道，那里的数千名示威者和保护政府大楼的警方发生了短暂的冲突，警方曾经朝空中开了几枪。
The protests, while not clearly coordinated, were all in response to the increasingly ominous situation in Kiev, where demonstrators near the Dynamo soccer stadium had clashed fiercely with the police throughout this week, burning police buses, beating some officers, and setting large numbers of tires on fire.
尽管抗议者之间缺乏明确的协作，然而他们都对基辅市内日益凶险的局面做出了反应，基辅迪纳摩足球场附近的抗议者已经和警方激烈地对抗了整整一周，他们烧警车、殴打警察、纵火焚烧了大量轮胎。
Among the most chilling developments were reports of demonstrators being kidnapped — in some cases at hospitals — or detained by the police and taken to undisclosed locations.
示威者被绑架——有时这种情况发生在医院里——或者被警方拘留，并带到隐匿场所的种种报道，是最令人毛骨悚然的事态发展之一。
Igor Lutsenko, a civic activist and leading organizer of the opposition movement who has been a strong advocate of peaceful protest, was grabbed early Tuesday morning at a hospital where he had brought another demonstrator injured by a stun grenade during clashes with the police.
民间活动人士、反抗运动的主要组织者伊戈尔·卢岑科(Igor Lutsenko)一直是和平抗议的有力倡导者，周二一早，他在一家医院里被抓。此前，他带了另一名示威者到这家医院就诊，此人在和警方的冲突中被震爆弹击伤。
The second man, Yuriy Verbytsky, was later found dead on the outskirts of Kiev. Another body was found in the same area and also showed signs of abuse, Ukrainian news media reported.
另一位示威者名叫尤里·沃比茨基(Yuriy Verbytsky)，后来被发现死在基辅郊外。据乌克兰新闻媒体报道，在同一个地区还发现了另一具尸体，上面也显示出曾遭受虐待的痕迹。
In an interview from his hospital bed on Thursday, Mr. Lutsenko described being forced into a van by men whom he described as “very professional” and taken to a forest where he and Mr. Verbytsky were beaten and interrogated, but mostly kept apart.
周四，卢岑科在医院的病床上接受了采访，他说自己被押进一辆面包车，然后带到一座森林里，他和沃比茨基在那里受到毒打和盘问，不过大部分时间，他们俩是分开的。他形容说，逼迫他上车的男子出手“非常专业”。
Ukrainian news media on Thursday reported yet another disappearance. Dmitry Bulatov, the head of a motorist protest group called AutoMaidan, was apparently detained along with other members of his group, which leads caravans of vehicles in demonstrations against the government.
周四，乌克兰新闻媒体还报道了另一起失踪案。名为AutoMaidan的驾车抗议组织首领德米特里·布拉托夫(Dmitry Bulatov)和组织里的其他成员似乎是被一同拘留了。在对抗政府的示威中，该组织负责领导车队的抗议活动。
After continued clashes overnight, protesters battling the police in the Ukrainian capital agreed to the temporary cease-fire on Thursday morning as opposition leaders planned to attend a second round of negotiations with Mr. Yanukovich.
冲突持续了一夜，而后，在乌克兰首都和警方作战的抗议者于周四上午同意暂时停火，这是因为反对派领导人计划参加和亚努科维奇的第二轮谈判。
The talks, scheduled for the afternoon, were repeatedly pushed back. Late on Thursday, two of the opposition leaders emerged from the meeting with Mr. Yanukovich to urge a continuation of the truce.
原定于周四下午举行的谈判一推再推。周四晚间，两名反对派领导人从和亚努科维奇谈判的会场走出，敦促继续停战。
They said they had achieved a tentative agreement that would set free dozens of detained protesters and potentially create another occupied space similar to Independence Square, where demonstrators have camped out since early December.
他们表示，双方已经达成一项初步协议，将释放数十名被扣押的抗议者，还有可能划定一个和独立广场类似的占领区。自去年12月初以来，示威者就已经在独立广场安营扎寨了。
They also said that a package of legislation broadly suppressing political dissent that was rammed through Parliament last week by Mr. Yanukovich’s supporters would be revisited at a special legislative session next week.
他们还说，下周将举行特别立法会议，重新探讨一系列的立法提案，这组提案是亚努科维奇的支持者们于上周在议会强行通过的，目的是广泛地打压政治异见人士。
There were howls of dismay among some of the protesters gathered to listen to the two leaders, the former boxing champion, Vitali Klitschko, who leads a party called the Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform and Oleg Tyagnibok, the head of the nationalist Svoboda Party.
在聚首聆听两名领导人发言的某些抗议者中，传出阵阵错愕之声，这两名领导人分别是前拳击冠军维塔利·克利奇科(Vitali Klitschko)，他领导着名为乌克兰改革民主同盟(Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform)的政党。另一人是民族主义党派全乌克兰自由联盟(Svoboda Party)的领导人奥列格·塔亚格尼布克(Oleg Tyagnibok)。
Mr. Klitschko and Mr. Tyagnibok said the authorities had also given guarantees that the police would not fire on protesters with live ammunition, something that officials have denied ever occurred, even as four demonstrators were shot to death during clashes with the police early Wednesday.
克利奇科和塔亚格尼布克说，当局还担保，警方不会用实弹射击抗议者。官员们一直否认警方曾经向抗议者发射过实弹，虽然周三一早，就有四名示威者在和警方的冲突中被射杀。