A Dutch-led investigation has concluded that the powerful surface-to-air missile system used to shoot down a Malaysia Airlines plane over Ukraine two years ago, killing all 298 on board, was trucked in from Russia at the request of Russian-backed separatists and returned to Russia the same night.
由荷兰领导的一项调查断定，两年前一个用来击落乌克兰上空一架飞机的强大地对空导弹系统，是应俄罗斯支持的分裂分子的请求用卡车从俄罗斯运来，并于当晚送回俄罗斯的。被击落的飞机属于马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)，机上298人全部遇难。
The report largely confirmed the Russian government’s already widely documented role not only in the deployment of the missile system — called a Buk, or SA-11 — but also in the subsequent cover-up, which continues to this day.
这份报告主要证实了俄罗斯政府在被称作“山毛榉”(Buk)或SA-11的导弹系统的部署，以及后来在事实真相的掩盖中所扮演的角色。在此之前，俄罗斯政府的角色就已经有广泛的证据，而它至今仍在继续掩盖此事。
The report, by a team of prosecutors from the Netherlands, Australia, Belgium, Malaysia and Ukraine, was significant for applying standards of evidence admissible in court while still building a case directly implicating Russia.
报告由一队来自荷兰、澳大利亚、比利时、马来西亚和乌克兰的检察官撰写，对形成符合标准的呈堂证供有着重大意义，与此同时，一项直接牵涉俄罗斯的诉讼仍在酝酿中。
With meticulous detail, the prosecutors traced Russia’s role in deploying the missile system into Ukraine and its attempts to cover its tracks afterward. The inquiry did not name individual culprits and stopped short of saying that Russian soldiers were involved.
检察官追查了俄罗斯在将导弹系统部署到乌克兰，以及事后企图掩盖其踪迹的过程中所发挥的作用，给出了详尽的细节。调查未提到个人罪犯，也未表示俄罗斯军人和事件有牵连。
The evidence presented in the report strongly implicated the Russian authorities in a broad sense. The inquiry was the most detailed investigation to date of the attack on Malaysia Airlines Flight 17. It is unlikely that anyone not connected with the Russian military would have been able to deploy an SA-11 missile launcher from Russia into a neighboring country.
总的来说，报告中呈现的证据明确显示俄罗斯当局牵涉其中。该调查是迄今为止对马来西亚航空公司MH17航班遇袭一事进行的最为详细的调查。和俄罗斯军方没有关系的人，不太可能有能力将一台SA-11导弹发射装置从俄罗斯部署到邻国。
But in implicating Russia, the report raised perhaps a bigger question: What does the Netherlands plan to do about that?
但在认为俄罗斯参与了该事件的同时，该报告提出的一个问题或许更重要：对此荷兰打算怎么办？
Russia has already vetoed a Dutch-backed request to the United Nations to establish an international tribunal.
俄罗斯已经否决了荷兰支持的请联合国成立一个国际法庭的请求。
One of the eeriest pieces of evidence emerged last year and was highlighted again on Wednesday. The pilots had no chance of saving the plane because the missile exploded yards from the cockpit. But one carried to earth in his body a pivotal clue: a butterfly-shaped piece of shrapnel, a trace from a type of warhead installed in Buk missiles in Russia’s arsenal, but not Ukraine’s.
最早的一项证据出现于去年，并在周三当天再次得到强调。飞行员没有机会挽救飞机，因为导弹在离驾驶舱只有几码远的地方爆炸。但一名飞行员将体内的一条关键线索带到了地面：一片蝴蝶形状的弹片，这种弹片残留物来自一种装载在俄罗斯而非乌克兰的“山毛榉”导弹上的弹头。
In Moscow on Wednesday, in anticipation of the report, President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry S. Peskov, issued a statement to reporters decrying “speculation” about the plane, but it did not refer specifically to the report.
周三，料到报告即将发布，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的发言人迪米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitry S. Peskov)在莫斯科面向记者发表了一份声明，公开谴责有关该飞机的“猜测”，但声明未明确提到该报告。
“This whole story, unfortunately, is couched in a huge amount of speculation, unqualified and unprofessional information,” Peskov said.
“遗憾的是，整个故事使用了大量猜测，不合格、不专业的信息，”佩斯科夫说。