ZUHRES, Ukraine — Just hours after the Malaysian government reached an agreement with Ukrainian separatists on Sunday over access to the crash site of a Malaysian airliner shot down in rebel territory, the Ukrainian military launched an operation to recapture the debris fields, again stalling international efforts to secure the site.
乌克兰祖赫雷斯——周日，马来西亚政府与乌克兰分裂分子达成协议，获许进入在叛军控制的地区被击落的一架马来西亚客机的坠毁地。然而，仅数小时后，乌克兰政府军发起行动，以夺回散布着飞机残骸的大片地区。此举再次让保护坠机现场的国际努力陷入停滞。
The heavy fighting threatened to torpedo hopes of a breakthrough and cause yet more delays in collecting evidence and retrieving the remaining bodies from the crash. Ukrainian security officials said they needed control over the site to prevent separatists from destroying clues to the airliner’s downing.
激烈的战斗可能会让取得突破的希望落空，并给从坠机现场搜集证据并找回剩余遇难者遗体的行动造成更多延误。乌克兰安全部门的官员表示，他们必须控制现场，以防止分裂分子破坏有关飞机遭击落的线索。
By Sunday evening, the Ukrainian advance had blocked a key road leading from the provincial capital, Donetsk, to the airplane debris northeast of Shakhtyorsk, but it remained unclear whether government troops were in control of all or part of the approximately 14 square miles of debris fields.
到周日傍晚，乌克兰的先头部队已经封锁了从该州首府顿涅茨克通往位于沙赫乔尔斯克东北部的坠机现场的一条主要公路，但尚不清楚政府军是全部还是部分控制了现场。这片区域占地约为14平方英里（约合36平方公里）。
Videos posted online appeared to show Ukrainian armored vehicles near the site, and reporters who visited earlier Sunday said insurgents were nowhere to be seen.
发布到网上的视频似乎显示，乌克兰的装甲车出现在了坠机现场附近。周日早些时候去过那里的记者也表示，叛乱分子的踪影无处可寻。
The combat spread out along the road in a fluid and chaotic scene, leaving it wholly unclear who controlled what. Fragments of rockets lay on the sunbaked macadam, and columns of black smoke rose in many spots on the horizon.
战斗沿着这条公路展开，场面瞬息万变、混乱不堪，让人完全看不出谁控制着哪片地方。火箭弹的碎片躺在烈日下的碎石路面上，地平线上有许多地方升起了滚滚黑烟。
One separatist commander at a checkpoint outside Shakhtyorsk, about 10 miles from the crash site, said the Ukrainians had retaken the area, and a rebel leader, Alexander Borodai, confirmed that government troops were advancing.
在沙赫乔尔斯克城外距坠机现场约10英里（约合16公里）的一处关卡，一名叛军指挥官表示，乌克兰政府夺回了该地区。反对派领导人亚历山大·博罗代(Alexander Borodai)也证实，政府军正在向前推进。
“The attempts to clear militia from the crash site irrefutably show Kiev is trying to destroy evidence,” he told reporters in Donetsk. His claim was apparently intended to counter earlier allegations that the rebels had been tampering with evidence to hide their own role in the downing of the plane.
“将民兵组织逐出现场的企图无可辩驳地表明，基辅正试图毁灭证据，”他在顿涅茨克告诉记者。他的说法似乎是为了反驳早些时候出现的指控，即反叛分子一直在篡改证据，以掩盖自己在飞机坠毁一事上扮演的角色。
Separatists seemed to be in a state of alarm, driving in convoys of buses and armored vehicles out of Donetsk toward the fighting. They controlled the road as far as the town of Zuhres. A monitoring mission by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe that had visited the site daily was unable to reach the area on Sunday.
分裂分子似乎处于警戒状态，驾驶着成队的大巴和装甲车从顿涅茨克开赴战场。这条公路上，一直到祖赫雷斯的路段皆由他们控制着。欧洲安全与合作组织（Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe，简称OSCE）派出的监察团之前每天都会奔赴坠机现场，但周日却无法抵达该区域。
The Malaysian jetliner, a Boeing 777-200, was shot down over eastern Ukraine on July 17 en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and all 298 people aboard Flight 17 were killed. Ukrainian and American officials say the plane was shot down by a Russian-made surface-to-air missile fired by the rebels. Russia and the rebels have denied any involvement and blame Ukraine.
7月17日，马来西亚一架从阿姆斯特丹飞往吉隆坡的波音777-200喷气式客机在乌克兰东部上空被击落，MH17航班上的298人全部遇难。乌克兰和美国官员宣称，飞机由叛乱分子发射的一枚俄制地对空导弹击落。俄罗斯和叛军则否认和事件有关，并指责乌克兰应对此事负责。
Small groups of foreign police officers and forensic experts have managed to reach the crash site, but efforts to secure it with larger contingents have repeatedly fallen through.
由外国的警察和法证专家组成的小队人马已设法抵达坠机现场，但利用更大规模的人手保护现场的努力多次落空。
Earlier Sunday, the prospects for a more robust foreign presence seemed to have improved when the office of Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia announced in an email that he had reached an agreement with Mr. Borodai “to allow a deployment of international police personnel to enter the crash site.”
周日早些时候，马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)的办公室通过电子邮件宣布，他已与博罗代达成了协议，“允许部署国际警察人员进入坠机现场。”此时，现场将有更多国外人的可能性似乎增加了。
After the announcement, around 30 unarmed Dutch police officers left the eastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv intending to reach the debris-strewn fields. But after traveling by road to Donetsk, the Dutch team put off trying to go farther because of fighting, a spokeswoman for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said.
欧安组织发言人表示，约有30名未携带武器的荷兰警察在消息公布后从乌克兰东部城市哈尔科夫出发，准备前往飞机残骸的散落地。不过，由于战事不断，驱车前往顿涅茨克后，这支荷兰警察队伍不得不推迟了进一步深入该地区的计划。
The Dutch police deployment on Sunday, ordered overnight by the Ministry of Security and Justice in The Hague, reversed an earlier decision by the head of a Dutch police mission in Kharkiv. He had intended to delay movement toward the crash site until a vote on Thursday by the Ukrainian Parliament in Kiev that he said would provide a “legal basis” for the deployment of foreign police officers.
位于海牙的荷兰公共安全与司法部(Ministry of Security and Justice)连夜下令本国警察周日进行此番调度。这和驻扎在哈尔科夫的荷兰警方特派团负责人早些时候作出的决定相左。这名负责人本来打算推迟行动，等待基辅的乌克兰议会周四举行表决，从而给国外警力的部署提供他口中的“法律依据”。
While the bodies of most victims have been recovered and flown to the Netherlands for identification, forensic investigators have not been able to reach the area in sufficient numbers to ensure that all the bodies have been found. They also want to collect debris that could provide evidence of who had brought the plane down. The Netherlands, whose citizens accounted for around two-thirds of the crash victims, is leading an international effort to get to the bottom of what happened to Flight 17.
虽然大多数遇难者的遗体已被收敛并空运到荷兰等候辨认，然而能抵达现场的鉴证调查人员的规模还是不足以确保能找到所有的尸体。他们还打算搜集飞机残骸，以便为找到肇事者提供证据。由荷兰主导的国际调查行动打算追查到底，还原MH17航班失事的真相。在此次空难中，有三分之二左右的遇难者是荷兰公民。
The area is tactically important for the Ukrainian military, which is trying to close access to Donetsk from the east, lest separatists in the city be resupplied and reinforced from the direction of the Russian border.
对乌克兰军方来说，失事地点为战略要地。乌军方正在设法封锁从东部通往顿涅茨克的走廊，以免该市的分裂分子从俄罗斯边境方向获得补给和增援。
Clashes flared in half a dozen towns east of Donetsk on Sunday. There was also fighting to the north, with an artillery strike in the town of Horlivka reportedly killing at least 13 civilians.
周日，在顿涅茨克以东的五六座城镇爆发了冲突。在北部一线也发生了战斗。据报道，戈尔洛夫卡遭到的一次炮击导致了至少13名平民遇难。
The longer the crash site remains unguarded, the smaller the chances of recovering evidence. Responding to growing reports that the wreckage and passenger items had been tampered with, Australia said Sunday that it was sending unarmed police officers to the crash site to prevent any further meddling. Australia lost dozens of citizens on Flight 17.
坠机现场无人守护的时间越长，搜集证据的机会就越渺茫。关于飞机残骸和乘客物品遭破坏的报道日渐增多，对此，澳大利亚在周日表示，准备派遣一支不携带武器的警队前往坠机地点，以防止局面进一步恶化。澳大利亚有数十名公民乘坐了MH17航班并遇难。