MOSCOW — Russia’s charged balancing act in its policy toward Ukraine was evident on Sunday, with President Vladimir V. Putin both endorsing a peace plan outlined by the Ukrainian president and rebuking Kiev for the shaky cease-fire.
莫斯科——外界指责俄罗斯对乌克兰采取了两面派的态度。周日，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)一面对乌克兰总统提出的和平方案表示支持，一面又谴责基辅对停火协议摇摆不定，明显体现了这种立场。
As the violence drags on without a resolution in sight, Mr. Putin finds himself treading a narrow path between conflicting goals, according to government officials, analysts and diplomats.
政府官员、分析人士及外交官表示，由于暴力活动仍在持续，眼前并无解决方案，普京发现自己夹在两个相互冲突的目标之间，可选的路径十分狭窄。
His main objective is to preserve as much Russian influence as possible over Ukraine’s future, championing the goal of the separatists for significant autonomy. That autonomy would keep the southeast closer in orbit to Moscow than to Kiev, rendering Ukraine’s central government weak.
他的主要目标是尽可能多地保留俄罗斯对乌克兰未来的影响力，支持分离派取得极大自治权的目标。这种自治权可以使乌克兰东南部地区与俄罗斯保持密切关系，与基辅则较为疏远，从而削弱乌克兰中央政府。
But Mr. Putin must achieve that goal without getting Russia enmeshed in the politically fractured and economically backward briar patch of the breakaway regions. That would be expensive, not least because any hint of a military role or even a hand in the area’s destabilization could provoke far harsher Western sanctions.
但普京达成这一目标的前提是，不能使俄罗斯陷入这片荆棘地——这些有分离倾向的地区政治分化、经济落后。插手干预将付出巨大代价，尤其是因为一旦有任何采取军事行动，或是破坏该地区稳定的迹象，都会促使西方采取更严厉的制裁。
Such sanctions are expected to be the focus of sustained consultations during the coming week when NATO foreign ministers and European leaders meet separately in Brussels. Washington warned last week that tougher sanctions were under serious discussion because it said Moscow was supplying covert military aid, including tanks and artillery, to the rebels.
未来一周北约(NATO)各国外长及欧盟领导人将分别在布鲁塞尔举行会晤，届时上述制裁将成为连续磋商的讨论重点。华盛顿方面上周警告称，正在认真讨论是否要采取更为严厉的制裁，因为美国称莫斯科向叛乱分子秘密提供了军事援助，包括坦克和火炮。
Russia denies any such thing. “Mr. Putin says that the only viable solution will be through dialogue,” Dmitri S. Peskov, the president’s spokesman, said Sunday when asked to summarize Russia’s position.
俄罗斯对此予以否认。周日，普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)在被问及俄罗斯的立场时表示，“普京说，唯一可行的方法就是通过对话解决。”
However, Mr. Putin is trying to satisfy several mutually antagonistic constituencies at once. Much of his domestic audience, fed for months on a diet of frenzied, Ukraine-in-flames reports on state-run television, endorses the need for a firm Russian hand.
然而，普京又在试图同时令几个敌对的阵营满意。大部分俄罗斯观众几个月来看到的都是官方电视台对乌克兰局势的疯狂报道，称乌克兰处于危险之中，这些民众认为俄罗斯有必要采取强硬措施。
The military and staunch nationalists, encouraged by Moscow’s annexation of Crimea in March, are considered the leading chorus for this approach. They hope the Ukraine crisis can serve as the catalyst for Russia to go it alone once again as a superpower — an idea with popular appeal.
俄罗斯在今年3月吞并了克里米亚，军队和坚定的民族主义者因此受到鼓舞，他们被认为是支持这种路线的主要力量。他们希望乌克兰危机能够充当催化剂，促使俄罗斯扮演超级大国的角色，再一次单打独斗，这个想法很受民众欢迎。
“Ukraine should be considered territory occupied by the United States except for Donbass,” Sergei Y. Glazyev, an economic adviser to Mr. Putin, said this month, using the shorthand for the region that includes the breakaway “People’s Republics” of Donetsk and Luhansk. “We should call on other regions to liberate themselves from this occupation.”
“乌克兰除了顿巴斯地区以外的领土，都应该被视为受到了美国占领，”普京的经济顾问谢尔盖·格拉济耶夫(Sergei Glazyev)本月表示。“我们应该号召其他地区争取解放，摆脱美国的占领。”顿巴斯这个简称指的是两个宣布独立的“人民共和国”顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克所在的区域。
But the more liberal constituency in Russia, including many business executives, economists and diplomats, want to avoid the rupture with the West that would surely follow a full embrace of the separatists.
但俄罗斯偏向自由派的阵营——包括很多企业高管、经济学家和外交官——希望避免与西方决裂。与西方决裂后，俄罗斯肯定会全力支持分离派。
“A big country like Russia cannot be split from the rest of the world — it is not the 19th century,” Evgeny Gontmacher, a prominent economist, told participants in a recent seminar. “We will be barefoot and the inflation rate out of control.”
“像俄罗斯这样的大国不能脱离世界上的其他国家，现在不是19世纪，”著名经济学家叶夫根尼·贡特马切(Evgeny Gontmacher)最近在一场研讨会上告诉与会者。“我们到时候会穷得穿不起鞋，通货膨胀率将会失控。”
Much of the West is not even waiting for stiffer sanctions to be put in place, he noted, but has already stopped investing in Russia and started blacklisting its institutions.
他指出，大部分西方国家甚至没有等到更严厉的制裁举措颁布，就已经停止在俄罗斯投资，并开始将俄罗斯的机构列入黑名单。
So the problem for Russia, and Mr. Putin in particular, is to balance those competing demands. (Officially, the Kremlin denies being swayed by the threat of sanctions.)
所以俄罗斯，尤其是普京所面临的问题，就是平衡这两派相互矛盾的诉求。（作为官方态度，克里姆林宫否认自己的态度会受到制裁威胁的左右。）
“Putin has to show that he is a strong leader who stands up for the national interests,” said Aleksei V. Makarkin, an analyst at the Center for Political Technologies in Moscow. “On the other hand, he needs to send a message to the West that he is ready for a dialogue, to make it clear that he won’t escalate the situation, that there is no need to impose sanctions.”
“普京必须表明，他是一个维护民族利益的强大领导人，”莫斯科政治技术中心(Center for Political Technologies)的分析师阿列克赛·V·马卡尔金(Aleksei V. Makarkin)说。“另一方面，他需要向西方发出讯号，表明他已经做好了进行对话的准备，并明确表示他不会加剧紧张局势，所以没必要实施制裁。”
Mr. Putin exercised both tracks of his dual policy over the weekend. On Saturday, hours after shells from Ukraine crashed into a Russian border post, causing damage but no casualties, he put the military on alert and announced snap exercises involving some 65,000 soldiers.
周末，普京对其双重政策的两条路线都进行了实践。周六，就在乌克兰的炮弹飞入俄罗斯边防站之后（造成破坏但是无人伤亡），他命令军队进入警戒状态，并宣布举行有6.5万名士兵参与的无预警军事演习。
But he also issued a statement on Saturday endorsing the peace plan, even calling on both sides to stop fighting. He repeated the gist of his remarks to reporters during a live television broadcast on Sunday.
但是，他周六还发布了一项支持和平方案的声明，甚至还呼吁双方停止战斗。周日，他在直播的电视节目中向记者重申了其言论的主旨。
“It is important that this cease-fire open the way to a dialogue between all of the parties to the combat, so as to find solutions that will be acceptable to all sides,” Mr. Putin said.
普京说，“这个停火协议应当使战斗各方开展对话成为可能，从而找到各方都能接受的解决方案。这一点很重要。”
But he also criticized the continuing Ukrainian military operations despite the unilateral cease-fire that the government in Kiev said it put into effect on Friday. “What is needed is for all military operations to stop,” he said. The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry issued a statement accusing the pro-Russian separatists of fueling continued violence.
虽然基辅政府表示已于周五开始实施单方面停火，但是普京对乌克兰方面仍在继续的军事行动提出了批评。他说，“我们需要做的是停止一切军事行动。”乌克兰外交部则发表声明，谴责了亲俄分离派在助长仍在继续的暴力行为。
Of course, calling for dialogue and actually getting it started are two different matters. In a nationwide speech on Saturday laying out his peace plan, Petro O. Poroshenko, the new Ukrainian president, rejected negotiations with virtually all the separatist leaders. They in turn said they would not interact with Kiev.
当然，呼吁对话与对话的实际展开是两件完全不同的事。周六，乌克兰新任总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)在一次全国性演讲中阐述了自己的和平方案；实际上，他拒绝与任何分离派领导人开展谈判。后者也表示他们不会与基辅互动。
Yevgeny N. Minchenko, a Moscow-based expert on Ukraine at the International Institute for Political Expertise, said the idea that negotiations could be held without the separatists was unrealistic. “If they want to solve the problem, they have to negotiate with the guys who control the situation,” he said.
莫斯科政治专业国际研究院(International Institute for Political Expertise)的乌克兰问题专家叶夫根耶夫·N·明琴科(Yevgeny N.Minchenko)说，认为对话可以在没有分离主义者参与的情况下展开的想法是不切实际的。他说，“如果他们想解决问题，就必须与控制局势的人开展谈判。”
On Sunday, three past presidents of Ukraine — Leonid M. Kravchuk, Leonid D. Kuchma and Viktor A. Yushchenko — wrote an open letter to Mr. Putin asking him to do more to defuse the violence in Donbass and to withdraw Russian mercenaries. “Leave our country in peace!” they wrote.
周日，乌克兰的三名前总统——列昂尼德·M·克拉夫丘克(Leonid M. Kravchuk)、列昂尼德·D·库奇玛(Leonid D. Kuchma)和维克多·A·尤先科(Viktor A. Yushchenko)——给普京写了一封公开信，要求他采取更多行动来减少顿巴斯的暴力冲突、撤回俄罗斯雇佣兵。他们写道，“不要再干扰我们的国家了！”