KIEV, Ukraine — Ukraine and Russia traded increasingly bitter accusations of cross-border hostilities on Tuesday, deepening a shadowy war of real attacks or orchestrated sabotage that increasingly threatens to draw the two countries into direct conflict.
乌克兰基辅——周二，乌克兰和俄罗斯越来越激烈地就越境战争行为谴责对方，进一步深入展开了一场由真实的攻击或精心组织的破坏活动组成的隐晦战争，这场战争让两国陷入直接冲突的可能性越来越大。
On Tuesday, Ukrainian military officials said they suspected Russia of carrying out an airstrike that destroyed a four-story apartment building in the eastern Ukrainian town of Snizhne, about 12 miles from border, killing at least 11 civilians. Pro-Russian separatists, in turn, said the Ukrainian military had carried out the bombing.
周二，乌克兰军方官员表示，他们怀疑俄罗斯发动了一场空袭，摧毁了乌克兰东部距两国边境约12英里（约合19公里）的斯尼日内市的一栋四层公寓楼，导致至少11名平民死亡。亲俄分离主义者反过来则称，是乌克兰军方制造了那次爆炸事件。
The announcement by Ukraine’s general prosecutor’s office that it was collecting evidence of a Russian role in the airstrike came a day after the government in Kiev said it believed Russia was responsible for the downing of a military transport plane in Luhansk. A day before that, the Russian Foreign Ministry warned of potentially “irreversible consequences” after one man was killed and two other people were wounded when mortar fire hit the town of Donetsk on the Russian side of the border.
乌克兰总检察长办公室发表声明，称他们正在搜集俄罗斯在空袭中发挥了作用的证据。此前一天，基辅政府表示，它认为俄罗斯应为一架军用运输机在卢甘斯克被击落一事负责。在那之前的一天，边境城市顿涅茨克的俄方一侧遭迫击炮袭击，导致一名男子死亡，另外两人受伤，俄罗斯外交部(Russian Foreign Ministry)随后警告称此事可能会带来“无法挽回的后果”。
Officially, the Kremlin has denied arming, financing or directing the insurrection in eastern Ukraine, but its active support of the rebellion has been openly acknowledged in recent days. Separatist leaders have complained about the low quality and advanced age of the weapons provided by Russia and a lack of more proactive assistance as they have come under heavier attack by the Ukrainian military.
克里姆林宫官方否认武装、资助或指导了乌克兰东部的叛乱，但最近几天，它对叛乱的积极支持已被公开承认。分离主义领导人抱怨俄罗斯提供的武器质量差，年代久远，并称他们在遭到乌克兰军方更猛烈的攻击时缺乏更积极主动的援助。
On Tuesday, apparent new evidence of Russian military aid appeared on the roads of eastern Ukraine as convoys of tanks and smaller vehicles drove west through rebel-controlled territory toward Donetsk. Shortly after 10 a.m., a column of eight tanks, four large armored personnel carriers, and an assortment of smaller civilian cars and minivans wound its way through the small town of Vuglegirsk.
周二，乌克兰东部的公路上似乎出现了关于俄罗斯军方提供援助的新证据。坦克和较小车辆组成的车队穿过由反叛者控制的地区，往西驶向顿涅茨克。上午10点过后不久，一列由八辆坦克、四辆大型装甲运兵车以及各式各样较小的民用车辆和小面包车组成的长车队蜿蜒着通过小城乌格列戈尔斯克。
Rebels reclined on the top of the tanks, as if on couches. A kiosk owner watched as they passed. “I’m just sick of it all,” said the owner, who would give only her first name, Larisa, out of concern for her safety.
反叛分子斜靠在坦克顶部，像是靠在沙发上一样。一家书报亭的老板看着车队开过。“我真是受够这些了，”这名老板说。出于安全考虑，她只愿透露自己的名字是拉里莎(Larisa)。
She saved her harshest words for Ukraine’s government. “They are killing their own people,” she said. “We won’t forgive them that.”
她把最严厉的斥责留给了乌克兰政府。“他们在残杀自己人，”她说，“我们不会原谅他们的这种做法。”
A half-hour later, a column of four tanks rolled down the same road, past a brilliant field of sunflowers. Behind were trucks and civilian cars, including a new-looking Volkswagen minivan, with a blue light on top.
半小时后，由四辆坦克组成的车队在同一条路上开过，途经一片鲜艳的向日葵。车队后面跟着卡车和民用车辆，其中包括一辆看上去像是新车的大众小面包车，车顶上有一盏蓝色的灯。
The continued supply of arms and equipment has riled officials in Kiev, including President Petro O. Poroshenko, who has urged the West to impose more painful economic sanctions against Russia.
持续的武器和装备供应激怒了基辅的官员，其中包括敦促西方对俄罗斯实施更严厉经济制裁的乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)。
Anatoliy Matios, a deputy general prosecutor, said at a news conference in Kiev that the Ukrainian government intended to show evidence of Russia’s involvement in the bombing of the residential building in Snizhne.“It will be proven according to international standards that a neighboring state used military equipment and ammunition,” Mr. Matios said.
副总检察长阿纳托利·马季奥斯(Anatoliy Matios)在基辅的新闻发布会上表示，乌克兰政府打算出示俄罗斯参与了斯尼日内那栋住宅楼被炸一事的证据。“我们会按照国际标准证明，一个邻国使用了军事装备和弹药，”马季奥斯说。
While separatists blamed the government for the airstrike, Ukrainian officials insisted that all military flights had been suspended on Monday after the downing of the military transport plane in a rocket attack. Russia on Tuesday denied that the rocket that destroyed the plane had been fired from its side of the border.
尽管分裂分子指责是乌政府发动了此次空袭，乌克兰官员却坚称，自从一架军用直升机被火箭击落后，他们就在本周一暂停了所有的军事飞行。周二，俄罗斯否认了摧毁飞机的火箭弹是从俄方边境发射的说法。
As the cross-border recriminations added new animosity to the fight, the death toll continued to mount from the separatist insurrection in eastern Ukraine and the Ukrainian military’s effort to quash the rebellion.
边境双方的相互控诉给激战增加了新的仇恨，与此同时，在乌克兰东部分裂分子发动的叛乱和乌军方的平叛行动中，丧生的人数在持续增加。
At least six more Ukrainian soldiers were killed and 13 wounded in overnight fighting throughout the east, Andriy Lysenko, a spokesman for Ukraine’s National Security and Defense Council, said at a news briefing on Tuesday.
乌克兰国家安全和防务委员会(National Security and Defense Council)发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)在周二的新闻发布会上说，在乌克兰东部各地，至少有六名乌克兰士兵在前一晚的战斗中丧生，另有13人受伤。
The self-declared separatist Luhansk People’s Republic said that 15 civilians had been killed and more than 60 wounded in bombardments and other fighting throughout the region. That did not include the 11 civilians killed in the airstrike in Snizhne.
自称是卢甘斯克共和国公民的分裂分子表示，在针对该地区的轰炸行动和其他战斗中，有15名平民被杀，60多人受伤。这其中不包括在斯尼日内市遭遇的空袭中遇害的11名平民。
Mr. Lysenko called the attack in Snizhne “a cynical and bloody provocation in order to discredit the Ukrainian military.”
李森科称发生在斯尼日内市的袭击是“一次肆无忌惮的血腥挑衅，目的是败坏乌克兰军方的声誉”。
Ukrainian officials have said that the downed cargo plane was flying at a high-enough altitude that destroying it required a sophisticated surface-to-air missile provided by Russia. They also said it appeared that the missile had been fired from the Russian side of the border.
乌克兰官员已表示，坠毁货机正在相当高的高度飞行，需要用俄罗斯提供的尖端地对空导弹才能击落。他们还说，看上去导弹是从俄方边境发射的。
Russia denied that accusation on Tuesday, saying that the plane was shot down too far from the border to have involved a Russian missile.
俄罗斯于周二否认了这一指控，称这架货机被击落的位置离边境极为遥远，不可能和俄罗斯的导弹有关。
A senior Western official, who declined to be identified because he was discussing intelligence reports, said that the information on the downing of the Ukrainian plane was inconclusive.
一名西方高官说，关于乌克兰飞机坠毁的信息尚无定论，鉴于自己正在讨论的是情报报告，他拒绝透露自己的身份。
The official said that the initial conclusion of some government analysts was that the aircraft had probably been destroyed by a Russian surface-to-air missile and not a shoulder-fired antiaircraft system. The official also said that the missile had probably been fired from the Russian side of the border, an assertion that was impossible to verify.
这名官员说，一些政府分析人士最初的结论是，摧毁飞机的也许是俄罗斯的地对空导弹，而非肩扛式防空系统。这名官员还说，导弹也许是从俄方边境发射的，这一断言无法得到证实。