“We’ve chosen your children according to their physical attributes,” the leader told a group of parents at a Beijing public elementary school.
“我们根据身体条件选择了你们的孩子，”在北京的一所公立小学里，一位负责人告诉一群家长。
A Chinese version of Mars One, a Dutch program to send people to Mars, blossomed in my mind. They could call it “Huoxing yi,” or Fire Star One, with Mars translating into Chinese as “fire star.” It would be a select group of second graders, future breeders in white jumpsuits, taking off from the Chinese desert in a Shenzhou, or Divine Land, spacecraft, abandoning their exhausted planet to build a new civilization as Earth slides into an abyss of climate change. China has a pretty good space program, after all.
难道宣称要把人送往火星的荷兰项目“Mars One”有了中国版？我不禁浮想联翩。他们可以称之为“火星一”，因为跟Mars对应的中文是“火星”。在地球逐渐滑入气候变化的深渊之际，一群二年级学生，也就是以后负责在火星上繁育下一代的人，将穿上白色的连身衣，乘坐一艘“神舟”宇宙飞船从中国的沙漠地带出发，抛开这个不堪重负的星球，去创建新的文明。毕竟，中国有一个挺不错的太空计划。
Yet we had been called in to hear about the school’s music band, not a mission to Mars. So what was Teacher Wang talking about?
不过，我们是被叫来欣赏校乐队表演的，而非参加火星任务。那么王老师到底在说什么？
Eugenics for music, it turns out. Teacher Wang proceeded to describe a program by which a group of 8-year-olds, selected purely on the basis of physical characteristics rather than interest, would build the best band in the world that would travel overseas and wow audiences with the flower of Chinese youth. Freaky enough, without a one-way ticket to Mars.
原来是音乐优生学。王老师继续对项目加以阐述：一群纯粹基于身体条件而非兴趣被挑选出来的8岁学童，会加入全世界最好的乐队，该乐队会走出国门，让世界各地的观众为中国孩子中的佼佼者惊叹不已。
“For the best band, we’ve chosen the best students and the best teachers,” Teacher Wang continued.
“我们为这支最好的乐队挑选了最好的学生和最好的老师，”王老师继续说道。
Mr. Wang, whom parents addressed only as “Teacher,” (a sign of respect common here) stood before a giant white screen on which he projected a power point full of instrument images. “I’ve chosen your kids, one by one, out of a thousand kids.” Mr. Wang was referring to band C, the third in the school which trained the youngest students, some of whom would eventually rise through the ranks to band B and on to A, at which point they would perform at overseas gigs.
被家长们仅以“老师”相称（在这里通常带有尊重意味）的王老师站在巨大的白色屏幕前，展示着满是乐器照片的幻灯片。“我从1000个孩子当中把你们的孩子一个个地选了出来。”王老师指的是C乐队，即该校的第三支乐队，专门培训年纪最小的学生。其中一些学生最终将升入B乐队，然后是A，届时就可以赴海外演出。
“I’ve looked at their teeth, at their arms, their height, everything, very carefully,” Teacher Wang said. “We don’t want anyone with asthma, or heart problems, or eye problems. And we want the smart kids; the quick learners.”
“我检查了他们的牙齿、手臂和身高，每一样都查得非常仔细，”王老师说。“我们不想要任何有哮喘、心脏病或者视力问题的孩子。此外我们想要聪明的孩子，那种一学就会的。”
“Your kids were chosen not because they want to play this or that instrument, but because they have long arms, or the right lips, or are the right height, say for the trumpet, or the drums,” he said.
“你们的孩子被选中并不是因为他们想要演奏这种或者那种乐器，而是因为他们长着长胳膊，或者有合适的嘴唇或身高，适合吹小号或打鼓，”他说。
Seated across from me at a school desk, a father appeared to be listening carefully. Yet as he fiddled with a pen, took notes, leaned forward with his elbows on the desk, stared down, crossed his legs at the ankles, I wondered if he was entirely “there.”
跟我隔一张课桌的一位父亲，看上去听得很认真。不过当他摆弄着一支钢笔，不时记记笔记，探身把手肘靠在书桌上，低着头，翘着二郎腿的时候，我怀疑他是否真的全神贯注。
I, however, was spellbound. During my years in China I’d learned about ideas on a person’s “quality,” or “suzhi,” — concepts that are widely accepted here but would probably discomfort liberal parents elsewhere.
我倒是听得很入迷。来中国的这些年，我对人的“素质”的概念有了一定的了解——这种概念在这里受到普遍的认可，但放在其他任何地方，大概都会让自由派家长感到不舒服。
At our school, the children are separated into two sections — a so-called “international department” and a “Chinese department” — depending on their citizenship. Though both sections use similar Chinese-language teaching materials, they are treated differently and rarely mingle. The majority of students in the international department are of Chinese origin too, but have with overseas passports.
我们的学校根据国籍将学生分成两部分——一个是所谓的“国际部”，一个是“中国部”。尽管两者都使用同样的中文教材，但却会被区别对待，很少凑在一起。国际部的大多数学生也是华裔，但是持有外国护照。
The international department is more laid-back than the Chinese department which, according to my daughter, gets fewer breaks, more homework and is subject to harsher discipline. For the purposes of the school band, however, the two groups were one.
根据我女儿的说法，比起国际部，中国部的负担更重一些，课间休息的次数更少，家庭作业更多，纪律更严格。不过，为了学校乐队的建设，这两帮人合二为一了。
Two other non-Chinese, 8-year-old friends of my daughter were among the chosen. The Italian mother of one said her daughter had been chosen for saxophone because the girl was strongly built.
入选的其他非华裔学生有两名是我女儿的朋友，今年也都8岁。其中一名的母亲是意大利人，她说自己的女儿之所以被选中吹萨克斯管，是因为体格强壮。
“The other girl playing the sax is a Russian, and she’s also pretty built up and strong,” said my friend. (I have omitted their names out of respect for their privacy and that of their children.)
“另一个吹萨克斯的女孩是俄罗斯人，也很强壮，”我的朋友说。（为了保护相关大人和孩子的隐私，我隐去了姓名。）
My friend recalled that some of the parents had asked Teacher Wang why he was choosing children in grade 2 now, rather than earlier when they were in grade 1. Teacher Wang’s reply: “Because in grade 1 their teeth are falling out,” she said. My friend said that Teacher Wang had personally inspected each child’s teeth, as if, she said, “they were horses in the market.”
我的朋友回忆说，一些家长问过王老师，为什么他要等到孩子们上了二年级才选人，而不是提前一点儿，在一年级的时候。她说王老师是这样回答的：“因为他们上一年级的时候正在换牙。”我的朋友说王老师亲自检查过每一个孩子的牙齿。就好像“他们是市场上的骡马一样”，她说。
There was discussion of what kind of lips worked best for the trumpet.
还有过关于哪种嘴唇最适合吹小号的讨论。
And in a statement that shocked both of us profoundly, Teacher Wang said something about how Africans had long arms and so would be good at particular instruments, such as the cello.
王老师的一番话让我们俩极为震惊，他说非洲人的胳膊如何长，所以如何适于演奏特定的乐器，比如大提琴。
The American father of the third girl said a dentist had visited the school to see which students’ teeth were best suited to play wind instruments. His daughter, braces-free, passed and is learning to play the clarinet.
第三个女孩的父亲是美国人，她说一名牙医曾来过学校，看哪些学生的牙齿最适合演奏管乐器。她的女儿没戴牙套，通过了检查，正在学习演奏单簧管。
My daughter, who has some wonky teeth and braces, is a drummer. Apart from the teeth, I can see why; she has the mad energy of Animal in The Muppets and loves what the Chinese call “renao,” or “hot noise,” excitement.
我女儿的牙齿不太整齐，戴了牙套，她成了一名鼓手。除了牙齿，我知道还有其他原因：她像《布偶秀》(The Muppets)里的Animal一样充满能量，而且很爱中国人所说的“热闹”。
As a parent who found the eugenics of it disturbing, what was Ito do? Everyone, including the parents of “long-armed” children, seemed O.K. with it.
作为一名对着这种优生学思维很不感冒的家长，我该怎么做呢？每一个人，包括“长着长胳膊”的那些孩子的父母，似乎都没有异议。
My daughter was pushing hard to be part of it.
我女儿极力想要成为乐队的一员。
I gave in. And she loves it.
我做出了让步。她很高兴。