Jony Ive, the designer behind some of Apple’s most successful products, became even more important to Apple after the death of Steve Jobs.
作为苹果(Apple)最成功的一些产品的设计者，乔尼·艾夫(Jony Ive)在史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)去世后变得更加重要了。
But given Mr. Ive’s importance at the company, relatively little is known about him. In the new book “Jony Ive,” Leander Kahney, the author of several books about Apple, took on the challenge of analyzing Apple through the lens of Mr. Ive’s design process.
然而，相比艾夫在公司中的重要地位，外界对他的了解是少之又少的。在新书《乔尼·艾夫》(Jony Ive)里，作者利安德·卡尼(Leander Kahney)接受了挑战，透过艾夫的设计流程来分析苹果。此前卡尼已经写了多本有关苹果的书。
In an interview, Mr. Kahney talked about some of the highlights of his book. An edited transcript of the interview follows.
在一次采访中，卡尼讨论了他书中的一些要点。以下是编辑后的访谈录。
Q. Who exactly is Jony Ive? We know he is the chief designer, but what does that mean?
问：乔尼·艾夫到底是谁？我们知道他是苹果的首席设计师，可这意味着什么呢？
A. He was a design prodigy. He’s been obsessed with design since he was a kid. His dad — people say that he is a silversmith. But he was actually a designer — he was an education reformer. He specialized in design education in the U.K.
答：他是一名设计天才。他从小就沉迷于设计。他的父亲——据说他是一个银匠，但其实他是一名设计师——一名教育改革者。他在英国专事设计教学。
So he and his son were a couple of design nuts. They used to walk around looking at everything in the street, talking about the lampposts and why they were designed the way they were, and would they work in the rain or in the fog.
他和儿子是一对设计狂人。他们过去总会在街上转悠，四下里琢磨，谈论路灯柱子，为什么要把它们设计成那样，下雨或起雾时是否能起作用。
Jony was winning design prizes as a student, so he went on to be the star student at New Castle Polytechnic, which is now Northumbria University, the top design school in the country. And then he had a short career as a consultant before getting picked up by Apple. Apple tried to get him right out of school. They tried three times to recruit him, and eventually they did.
乔尼还是学生时就拿了不少设计奖，后来他又成了纽卡斯尔学院(New Castle Polytechnic)的尖子生，该学院如今已更名诺森比亚大学(Northumbria University)，是英国一流的设计学府。此后，在被苹果选中之前，乔尼曾短暂地做过顾问工作。苹果企图趁他一离校就招募他。他们三次尝试招他进公司，最终成功了。
Q. Apple is famously secretive. They didn’t give you access to Jony Ive. So how did you write a book about him?
问：苹果的保密是很出名的。他们没有给你接触乔尼·艾夫的机会。那么你是怎样写出这本关于他的书的？
A. I approached him through a back channel, through a friend. And he declined. And then I approached Apple officially, and they didn’t even respond.
答：我另辟蹊径，通过他的一位朋友去接触他。被他拒绝了。之后我又正式向苹果提出申请，他们连个回复都没有。
Then I discovered that Jony has made everything in his past life private. He has sealed all of his school records, his high school records, his college records. He’s persuaded all of his ex-workers, his ex-colleagues not to talk. So his family would not talk. It was all shut off. I was freaking out because I had nothing.
随后我发现，乔尼从没有公开过任何他过去的事情。他把自己所有的学校记录——高中记录、大学记录——都封存了起来。他劝说所有曾在他手下工作、曾与他共事的人不要谈论他。因此他的家人也什么都不会说。所有事情都被捂得严严实实。我都快疯了，因为我什么都没拿到。
But then I got a lucky break. I got one of one of his old design colleagues, Douglas Satzger, who worked with him for more than a dozen years. He was there before Steve Jobs came back and there all the way up to the iPad. And I went down to see him at his home in Silicon Valley.
不过后来出现了一次幸运的转机。我联系上了他以前做设计的同事道格拉斯·塞茨格(Douglas Satzger)，他和艾夫共事了十多年。在乔布斯回到苹果前，塞茨格就已经在那里工作，一直待到iPad问世。我南下到他在硅谷的家中拜访了他。
I’ve never done an interview with anybody from Apple who was so frank and open and just started unloading. So I did about six hours of interviews with him.
他非常坦率，一见面就说个不停，在我采访过的所有来自苹果的人中，他是唯一一位这样的。所以，我和他的采访进行了约六个小时。
What was fascinating about this guy was that, well for one, it was obvious that he had never told these stories before. He hadn’t told his wife or anybody about this stuff. So they weren’t coming out as stories. They were coming out as raw memory. So it was a very weird experience from an interview perspective, just to see somebody transcribe that flash of images as pure memory.
他这人有趣的地方首先在于，他以前显然从没说过这些事。他没有和妻子或任何人说过这些事。因此，它们不是以完整的故事形式出现的。它们是以原始记忆的形式呈现出来的。所以，从采访的角度来说，我是看着一个人将一幅幅作为纯粹记忆的画面誊录下来，那是一种非常奇特的经历。
Q. What was your favorite story from Mr. Satzger?
问：塞茨格讲述的事情中，你最喜欢的是什么？
A. It was about a meeting with Terry Gou, the head of Foxconn, the manufacturing company.
答：是和生产商富士康(Foxconn)的负责人郭台铭的一次会面。
He told me how they got into Foxconn. It was very much organic. They were looking at doing aluminum products. And they were working with a bunch of companies in Japan who introduced them to all these companies in China. And they were trying to do it with an American company, but the American company was just hopeless. They weren’t playing ball. But Terry Gou at Foxconn was.
塞茨格告诉我，公司是如何开始与富士康合作的。这一切发生得非常自然。公司当时正考虑以铝材制造产品。他们和一些日本公司合作过，后者介绍他们去找中国厂家。他们试图和一家美国公司合作，结果却令人绝望。他们完全不配合。但富士康的郭台铭却完全不同。
Do you remember the G5 PowerMac from 10 years ago? It looked like something out of “2001: Space Odyssey.” This massive aluminum tower. So they told Terry Gou that this thing was so beautiful, that they realized that people weren’t going to put it under their desk, but they were going to put it on top of their desks. So if they were going to put it on top of their desk, that means that people can see it from behind and they can see it from the sides. So they wanted every surface of that machine to be perfect.
你还记得十年前的G5 PowerMac吗？看上去仿佛出自《2001太空漫游》(2001: Space Odyssey)。一个庞大的铝质机箱。他们对郭台铭说，这个东西太漂亮了，以至于他们意识到人们不会想把它放在桌子下面，而是会把它放桌上。一旦放桌上，那人们就会从背面和侧面看到它。所以他们需要让这台机器的每一面都是完美的。
And because you took the door off to get inside, they wanted the inside to be perfect, too. So they designed everything inside: the motherboard, the chips, the chip covers; they even designed the cables. It’s insane.
另外，因为你会打开机箱看到里面，他们就希望机箱内部也处处完美。于是他们对内部的所有部件都进行了设计：主板、芯片、芯片罩；他们甚至连线都设计了。太疯狂了。
So they told Terry Gou this. And Gou was like, “Are you crazy? Are you mad? I’ve never heard of anything like it. No one does this kind of stuff.”
然后他们就把这些跟郭台铭说了。郭台铭的反应是，“你们疯了吗？脑子不正常吧？我从没听说过这样的东西。没人会做这种东西。”
And Satzger recounted this long meeting where he confronted a flabbergasted Terry Gou about their demands. And Terry Gou, when he understood their demands, he totally busted everyone’s chops to make sure they could deliver it. And that was the beginning of that relationship with Foxconn.
塞茨格回忆了一场漫长的会议，他面对面向震惊不已的郭台铭提出了他们的要求。而郭台铭呢，等他理解了这些需求，他真的是死盯每一个人，确保他们能完成生产。这就是苹果和富士康合作关系的开始。
And Foxconn subsequently went on to get more and more Apple products. That was a revelation because I think people think that Apple went to China because it’s cheap labor, because it’s exploitative. But the impression that I got was that they found a partner who is as committed and is as inventive as they were.
然后富士康就开始生产越来越多的苹果产品。这是个重要的发现，因为我想人们都觉得苹果去中国是因为它的廉价劳动力，因为能榨取更大利益。但我的印象是，他们找到了一个合作伙伴，其投入程度和创新能力与他们相一致。
Q. What was the most surprising thing you learned about Jony Ive?
问：就你了解的乔尼·艾夫，他的哪一点最令你吃惊？
A. Three of his former colleagues told me he almost got killed in a car accident on the 280 freeway with one of his buddies.
答：他的三位前同事告诉我，他和一个朋友在280号州际公路上遭遇车祸，差点儿就没了命。
This was right after the iPod started to take off. Apple’s fortunes were hockey-sticking. Everyone got fat paychecks. So he bought this Aston Martin DB9. You know, the James Bond supercar for $250,000. He had it delivered to New York, he drove it across country with his dad. And then a month later he wrecked it on 280.
当时iPod刚刚开始热卖，苹果的财富直线上升。每个人都拿着丰厚的薪水。所以他就买了那部阿斯顿·马丁(Aston Martin)DB9。你知道，那是詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)开的价值25万美元（约合152万元人民币）的超级跑车。车在纽约交货后，他就和父亲开着游遍了全国。一个月以后，他在280号公路上撞毁了这辆车。
This is the strange thing: I couldn’t find any records. I contacted every police agency from here to Bakersfield. No one’s got any records. Nothing. You know, I contacted tow companies, I contacted all these wrecking yards.
这件事很奇怪：我找不到任何相关的记录。我联系了从这儿到贝克斯菲尔德的每一家警局。没有一个地方有任何相关记录。完全没有。你知道吗，我还找了拖车公司，还有好多的废车场。
Apple freaked out about his accident. They gave him a huge paycheck, pay raise, and a bunch of options. They realized then how important he was to the company. So that was kind of, not a turning point, but it boosted his profile.
苹果得知他的车祸后吓坏了。他们给了他一张巨额支票，涨了工资，还有一大笔期权。他们那时已经意识到他对公司有多重要。所以那不能算是一个转折点，但的确提升了他的地位。
I also thought one of the most insightful things, one of the things that I found most fascinating, was that Jony Ive is dyslexic. But one thing I noticed, that no one has ever made clear, is that he’s always been very tactile. He loves to touch things. One of his first products, when he was a student working as an intern for a design company, was a pen that you could fiddle with, and they had what they called it “the fiddle factor.” He knew people fiddle with pens.
还有一件事，我认为是一个最说明问题的地方，也是最让我着迷的，那就是乔尼·艾夫有阅读障碍。但我也注意到，从来没有人明确提到一点，他一直非常依赖触觉。他爱触摸东西。当他还是学生时曾在一家设计公司实习，他最早设计的产品中有一支可以把玩的笔，它们具有人们所称的“把玩因素”。他知道人们喜欢转笔。
So when he got to Apple, the first product that he worked on was the MessagePad. He added the fiddle factor to that, with a pen that popped out and a pen interface on the screen. And then when he started working with Jobs, he put a handle on the iMac. And he did that not just so that you can carry it, but also to tell people it was O.K. to touch the machine.
所以，当他到了苹果，他第一件参与设计的产品就是MessagePad。他将这种把玩因素加入了产品：这款产品配有一支手写笔，可以配合屏幕的使用。然后，当他开始与乔布斯合作时，他给iMac设计了一个把手。他这么做的目的不仅是方便用户移动，他还想告诉人们，这台电脑是可以触摸的。
By touching the computer, it becomes not as intimidating, it’s not as scary. When you go into the Apple store you see everyone touching things. So he put handles on the early products: all the first iMacs, the iBook had a handle on it, the towers had handles on them.
通过触摸，电脑变得不再那么难以接近，不再那么可怕了。当你走进苹果店时，你会看到每一个人都在触摸各种产品。所以他在早期的产品上会加把手：所有第一代的iMac、iBook有把手，机箱上也有把手。
Q. What do you think of Apple after Steve Jobs? What’s changed?
问：你怎么看史蒂夫·乔布斯后的苹果？有什么改变？
A. Well you know, that’s an interesting thing. People say, “Why isn’t Jony the C.E.O.? If he’s the most important thing, why isn’t he the C.E.O.?”
答：你看，这是一个有趣的问题。人们说，“为什么不让乔尼作CEO？如果他是最重要的那个人，为什么他不是CEO？”
Tim Cook is doing for Jony what he did for Steve Jobs, which is take away the responsibility of the day-to-day management and free him up to be an inventive, creative product person. So Tim Cook’s in exactly the same role as he was before. Except now his master is different. His master is now Jony Ive rather than Steve Jobs. Jony doesn’t answer to anybody. Nobody can tell him what to do.
蒂姆·库克(Tim Cook)为乔尼做的也是他过去为史蒂夫·乔布斯所做的，将他从日常的管理责任中解脱出来，让他可以自由地做一个有发明创造力的、专注于产品的人。所以，蒂姆·库克的角色和以前完全一样。只是他服务的对象变了。他现在的老板是乔尼·艾夫，而不是史蒂夫·乔布斯。乔尼无需听命于任何人。没人能命令他做什么。
One of his former colleagues, Clive Grinyer, who worked with him in London and is a big designer in his own right, said Jony Ive is more important to Apple than Jobs was. And obviously Jobs leaving Apple was a big blow and potentially devastating. But you know, if Jony Ive left Apple now, then the company would really be in trouble.
他的一位前同事、曾与他在伦敦共事的克莱夫·格瑞亚(Clive Grinyer)本身也是一位知名设计师，他认为乔尼·艾夫对于苹果来说比乔布斯更重要。乔布斯离开苹果显然是一个巨大的打击，有可能造成灾难性的影响。但你知道吗，如果乔尼·艾夫现在离开苹果，那么这家公司就真的麻烦了。