BEND, Oregon — It might be the weirdest part of the atmosphere, 15 miles above the polar regions, where vast stratospheric clouds of nitric acid and water vapor shimmer in iridescent pink while human-made chemicals play havoc with the ozone layer.
美国俄勒冈州本德——这可能是大气层中最怪异的部分，在极地上空15英里，广阔的平流层硝酸云和水蒸汽呈现出一种微微发亮的珠光粉色，人类制造的化学物质在严重破坏臭氧层。
Scientists long to study the stratosphere at close range. But this is almost the edge of space, far too high for a conventional airplane in level flight.
科学家渴望近距离研究平流层，但它几乎是在太空的边缘，对于水平飞行的常规飞机来说，实在太高了。
How to get there?
怎样到达那里？
In a glider.
乘坐滑翔机。
Without the weight of engines or fuel, a glider can be lifted by natural atmospheric phenomena, engineers say. So a team of scientists, aviation buffs and entrepreneurs is building a two-seat sailplane designed to withstand the peculiar hazards of stratospheric flight. The journey is scheduled for August 2015.
工程师们表示，滑翔机没有发动机或燃料的重量，可以借助天然的大气现象获得升力。所以，一个由科学家、航空爱好者和企业家组成的团队，正在研制一种双座滑翔机，它可以承受平流层飞行带来的特殊危害，计划于2015年8月升空。
The glider will be shipped by freighter to El Calafate, Argentina, where winds from the Pacific Ocean are deflected by the Andes Mountains to create a standing wave, like the waves of water that form over rocks in a mountain stream, with updrafts of 30 feet per second.
这架滑翔机将由货轮运往阿根廷的卡拉法特，在那里，安第斯山脉使来自太平洋的风偏转方向，产生一股“驻波”，就像山涧石块上形成浪花一样，这些上升气流的速度达每秒30英尺。
“These mountain waves get so steep and energetic, they turn into white water,” said Edward J. Warnock, an aerospace engineer who is chief executive of the Perlan Project, the nonprofit organization that is building the glider, Perlan II.
“这些山岳间的气流非常陡峭，十分强劲，足以变成激流。”宇航工程师爱德华·J·沃诺克(Edward J. Warnock)说，他是非营利组织“普兰项目”(Perlan Project)的首席执行官，正在研制滑翔机“普兰II”(Perlan II)的就是这个组织。
A single-engine plane, probably a crop duster, will tow the glider to meet these waves, at about 10,000 feet. Where the waves weaken, at about 60,000 feet, the glider is supposed to intercept another phenomenon, the polar vortex — circulating winds that act like a giant cyclone during the austral winter, delivering a strong uplift. If it can catch that current, the glider will soar still higher, into the Perlan Clouds, and higher, into the ozone hole, where the chemical reactions that disrupt the ozone layer take place. (Perlan is the Icelandic word for “pearl,” describing the clouds’ sunlit glow.)
他们会用一架单引擎飞机，可能是农作物喷粉飞机，来牵引这架滑翔机，让它在大约1万英尺高度进入山岳波。到了约6万英尺的高空，当山岳波减弱时，滑翔机就会转而利用另一种大气现象：“极涡”(polar vortex)。“极涡”是循环风，在南半球的冬天，它就像是巨大气旋，提供强大升力。滑翔机有望借助它升得更高，进入普兰云，然后继续上升，达到臭氧洞的位置，即破坏臭氧层的化学反应发生的地方。（“普兰”是冰岛语中“珍珠”的意思，用来描述那种云在阳光照耀下发出的光芒。）
The aim is to go to 90,000 feet, or 17 miles up, and set a new altitude record for a glider. The plane’s predecessor, Perlan I, set the record of 50,726 feet on Aug. 30, 2006.
目标是升到9万英尺，即17英里的高空，刷新滑翔机的高度纪录。前一代滑翔机“普兰1号”曾在2006年8月30日创下了50726英尺的纪录。
Perlan II will cost an estimated $7.5 million, of which $3.5 million has already been spent; the project is still trying to raise the balance. The organizers include Dennis Tito, the pension fund manager who paid $20 million to visit the International Space Station, and, until he was killed in the 2007 crash of his single-engine plane, Steve Fossett, the aeronaut and sailor who flew Perlan I.
研制“普兰2号”将耗资750万美元，目前已经花费了350万美元；该项目仍在设法筹集其余资金。项目组织者包括丹尼斯·蒂托(Dennis Tito)，他是一位养老基金经理人，曾付费2000万美元参观国际空间站，还有驾驶过“普兰1号”的热气球飞行者和航海家史蒂夫·福塞特(Steve Fossett)，他在2007年一起单引擎飞机坠毁事故中身亡。
Perlan I also used the Andes mountain uplift; the climb took about four and a half hours. The new sailplane will have a wingspan of 84 feet and weigh just 1,700 pounds, counting crew — 100 pounds lighter than Perlan I, even though the older plane had a 72-foot wingspan. The builders say Perlan II is 80 percent complete. Huge carbon-fiber pieces that look like a woven fabric, a tight-knit plaid in two shades of gray, fill most of a hangar, waiting to be glued together.
“普兰1号”升空同样也借助了安第斯山脉气流的升力，爬升过程大约花了四个半小时。“普兰2号”将会有84英尺的翼展，加上飞行员重量只有1700磅（约为771公斤），比“普兰1号”减少了100磅，尽管“普兰1号”的翼展为72英尺。研制者说，“普兰2号”已经完成了80%组装工作。巨大的碳纤维板材占据了机库的大部分空间，它们看上去像是一种织物，绵密地织出两种深浅的灰色格子，等待着被粘合在一起。
In the end, all will be painted a reflective white to stop the sun from heating the parts enough to weaken the epoxy. (Inside the cabin, though, the air will be near freezing.)
最终，全部表面会刷上反光的白色涂料，以防阳光的热量减弱环氧树脂的强度（尽管驾驶舱内的空气温度将接近冰点）。
The glider was designed partly by computer calculation and partly by intuition. Long wings with a short distance from leading edge to trailing edge have low drag, essential in a plane with no engines. But as the wings get longer, the bending forces become greater, so the wings require a stiffer internal spar, which adds thickness. And thicker wings have a harder time cutting through the air.
“普兰2号”在设计过程中部分依靠电脑计算，部分依靠直觉。从前缘到后缘距离较短的长机翼阻力较低，这对于没有发动机的飞机来说很重要。但是，随着机翼变长，弯曲力又会增大，因此机翼需要更坚固的内部翼梁，这就会导致厚度增加。而较厚的机翼在空中掠过时会比较吃力。
“You’re always working trade-offs,” said Einar K. Enevoldson, the founder and chief pilot of the project, who was Mr. Fossett’s co-pilot on the record-breaking flight.
“你总是需要权衡取舍，”项目创始人和首席试飞员埃纳尔·埃勒沃德森(Einar K. Enevoldson)说。他是福塞特那次破纪录飞行中的副驾驶。
Mr. Enevoldson has been flying gliders since 1947, when he was 15 years old, and has extensive experience in high-altitude fighters and research planes. Now he is 81. His reflexes are not the same, he said, but his judgment in the tricky business of finding the uplifts is still good.
埃勒沃德森从1947年15岁起开始驾驶滑翔机。在高空战斗机和科研飞机方面，他有丰富的经验。现年81岁的他承认，自己的反应速度已经不如当年，但是找到上升推力是个很棘手的任务，他在这方面判断力还是不错的。
The glider’s design is a trade-off of performance and safety. Above 50,000 feet, the air pressure is so low that a pilot would find it impossible to exhale, even with an oxygen mask. One solution is a pressure suit, but it would be too big for a glider built to climb so high.
“普兰2号”的设计是性能和安全的折衷。在5万英尺的高空，气压如此之低，飞行员即便戴着氧气面罩，也会觉得无法呼气。一个解决办法就是穿上压力服，但是对于一架需要爬升到如此高度的滑翔机来说，压力服太大了。
The glider’s system will be tricked by the thin atmosphere into showing an airspeed of 46 miles an hour, about what it needs to stay aloft. But for the speed indicator to get to that reading in such low-density air, the actual speed will have to be about 335 m.p.h.
滑翔机的系统会受到稀薄大气层的欺骗，显示出每小时46英里的空速，差不多就是它保持飞行所需的最低速度。但是，在这样稀薄的空气中，要让指示器显示出这个速度读数，实际时速必须达到335英里左右。
And this, indirectly, sets the altitude limit. The challenge for the glider, as for most aircraft, is to move fast enough to get sufficient lift in the thin air to stay airborne, without approaching the speed of sound, which causes unacceptable stresses on the airframe. But as air density goes down, so does the speed of sound. On the top of the Perlan II glider’s wing, the passing air will approach the speed of sound but will not reach it.
而这也间接限制了滑翔机能够到达的最大高度。就像大多数飞机一样，这架滑翔机面临的挑战是，一方面要飞得足够快，以便在稀薄的空气获得足够的升力，保持飞行状态，另一方面又不能接近音速，因为接近音速的时候，机身应力会达到极限。但是，随着空气密度减小，声速也在减小。在普兰2号机翼的上表面，通过的空气将接近（但不会达到）音速。
“They’re definitely going to need to push the performance envelope, which means high lift and incredibly low drag,” said Richard P. Anderson, a professor of aerospace engineering at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Fla., and a glider pilot, who is not affiliated with the project.
“他们肯定需要在性能方面突破一些极限，这意味着很高的升力和极低的阻力。”理查德·P·安德森(Richard P. Anderson)说，他是佛罗里达州代托纳比奇的安柏瑞德航空航天大学(Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University)的航空航天工程教授，也是一名滑翔机飞行员，但不是该项目的成员。
And the high altitude will introduce other complications.
高海拔还会引发其他难题。
One is the need to pressurize the cabin so human lungs can overcome low air pressure — something other airplanes do with an engine.
其中之一是需要给舱内加压，让飞行员的肺部能够克服低气压——普通飞机是用发动机来实现的。
The solution is to seal the tiny cabin as the plane ascends, and bleed off a little air through a valve so the cabin pressure mimics what it would be at 14,500 feet. The sealed cabin needs spaceship-style scrubbers to remove the carbon dioxide and the moisture that would otherwise produce ice on the windows and walls. There is no way to warm the plane — another consequence of lacking an engine — so the two pilots, who will spell each other during the long flight, will wear socks with heaters in their soles, Mr. Enevoldson said.
解决办法是在滑翔机上升的时候密封狭小的驾驶舱，并通过阀门放掉一点空气，使舱内压力达到1.45万英尺高度的气压。密封的驾驶舱需要用宇宙飞船式的洗涤器除去二氧化碳和水分，否则舷窗和舱壁上就会结冰。此外，滑翔机也无法供暖，这是没有发动机带来的另一个不便；埃勒沃德森说，在漫长飞行途中轮流值班的两名飞行员会穿上底部装有加热器的袜子。
Squeezed into a fuselage about 36 inches in diameter, they will be almost recumbent. They will bring sandwiches and wear diapers.
挤在直径约36英寸的机身中，两名飞行员将几乎是躺着。他们将携带三明治，使用成人尿布。
The whole contraption, studded with windows cut in circles to minimize stresses on the frame, looks well suited to an otherworldly environment. “The temperature and atmospheric pressure aren’t too far off from Mars,” said Mr. Warnock, the project’s chief executive. (Mars is a special interest of Mr. Tito’s.) In fact, the engineers say, their plane would fly well in the atmosphere of Mars — if it could get there, and find a tow plane to get it off the ground.
窗户是圆形的，以尽量减少对机身框架的压力，装置的整体模样与一个出离尘凡的环境相当协调。“那里的温度和大气压力和在火星上相差不远，”该项目的首席执行官沃诺克说。（蒂托对火星特别感兴趣。）事实上，工程师们说，这架飞机会很适合在火星的大气层中飞行——如果它可以到达那里，并找到一架拖曳的飞机让它升空的话。
The stratosphere is ripe for close study, scientists say. It is where the sun continuously breaks apart molecules of ozone, which is made up of three oxygen atoms. The third tends to bind with human-made chlorofluorocarbon refrigerants in the atmosphere. While those chemicals have been mostly banned, the stray oxygen atoms stay married to chlorine or fluorine for 50 years, unavailable to become part of new ozone molecules, thereby depleting the ozone layer and altering the natural balance.
科学家们说，仔细研究平流层的时机已经成熟了。它是阳光不断分解臭氧分子的地方，臭氧由三个氧原子构成，第三个氧原子很容易跟大气层中人造的含氯氟烃制冷剂发生反应。虽然这些化学物质大多已经被禁止，但这个游离的氧原子仍然会跟氯或氟保持结合状态50年，无法生成新的臭氧分子，从而破坏臭氧层，改变自然平衡。
Perlan II could take samples and use lasers to observe and measure concentrations of chemicals. It is also expected to provide data on how the air mixes at such high altitudes, a phenomenon that is crucial to the planet’s heat balance.
“普兰2号”可以采样，并使用激光来观察和测量化学物质的浓度。预计它还将提供有关空气在这样的高度如何混合的数据，对于地球的热平衡来说，这种现象极为重要。
The altitude is not completely virgin territory; the space shuttle, which was in effect a glider on its way back to earth, used to traverse it at several times the speed of sound.
这个海拔高度的区域并非彻底的处女地，当年航天飞机在返回地球的时候其实就是一架滑翔机，以几倍于音速的速度穿过。
Spy planes like the SR-71 Blackbird have reached that altitude, but only for brief periods in their parabolic flight, according to Mr. Warnock. A year ago, Felix Baumgartner reached 128,100 feet in a balloon before skydiving out, but it would be difficult to navigate a balloon into the ozone hole.
沃诺克说，像SR-71黑鸟式侦察机(SR-71 Blackbird)这样的间谍飞机曾经达到这个高度，但只能在抛物线飞行的短暂时间内达到。一年前，费利克斯·鲍姆加特纳(Felix Baumgartner)从12.81万英尺高的气球上跳过伞，但要操纵气球进入臭氧洞十分困难。
James G. Anderson, a climate scientist at Harvard who is not affiliated with the project, said that in an era of remote-controlled drones, human pilots were something of a liability. “Even a skinny pilot is still four or five instruments,” he said.
詹姆斯·G·安德森(James G. Anderson)是一名未参与该项目的哈佛(Harvard)气候科学家，他说，在遥控无人机盛行的时代，人类飞行员似乎是一个不利因素。“即使体型瘦削的飞行员，也相当于四、五台仪器一样重。”他说。
But that is not the point, say Perlan’s backers, who hope to inspire a new generation of aeronautical adventurers.
但普兰项目的支持者们说，这不是意义所在，他们希望的是激励新一代的航空冒险家。
After all, Mr. Warnock said, “you could run the Indy 500 or the Reno air races with drones, too.” But “it wouldn’t be the same.”
毕竟，沃诺克说，“你也可以派无人机参加印第安纳波利斯500英里比赛(Indy 500)或雷诺飞行竞技比赛(Reno air)，但那是不一样的。”