Travel writers (myself included) often recommend low-cost carriers like Ryanair and easyJet as an affordable way to get around Europe. But that advice should come with an asterisk explaining how their baggage policies and fees differ from what most passengers are used to in the United States.
旅行作家们（包括我自己）常常推荐瑞安(Ryanair)、易捷(easyJet)等廉价航空作为欧洲经济旅行的交通选择。但这个建议应加上一个注释，解释它们的行李规定和附加费与大部分美国乘客所熟悉的惯例有什么不同。
I recently got an intensive course in fee forensics while researching fares between Dublin and Edinburgh, a route I flew two years ago, paying $61 for a one-way ticket on Aer Lingus (which is not always considered a budget carrier, but the distinctions are starting to blur).
最近我研究都柏林和爱丁堡之间的机票价格时，对机票费用方面做了一番了解。都柏林至爱丁堡这段航程我两年前飞过，乘坐的是爱尔兰航空（Aer Lingus；这家航空通常不被看作廉航公司，但它与廉航的界限是越来越模糊了）的航班，单程票价61美元。 
Aer Lingus and most of its competitors, including Ryanair and easyJet, now charge baggage fees that vary depending on your route, when you’re traveling and whether you pay online or at the airport. They have strict size and weight limits for checked and carry-on bags. And their fee charts include a dizzying array of options (and penalties) that have not yet made it across the Atlantic.
爱尔兰航空及其包括瑞安和易捷在内的竞争对手，现在都收取行李费。费用数额取决于你的旅行线路、旅行时间以及你是在网上购票还是机场购买。对于托运行李和随身行李，航空公司有严格的尺寸和重量限制。此外，它们的资费表格列举了多少变量（和违规罚款），复杂得令人头晕。这套资费系统目前还没有传到大西洋对面的美国。
For instance, the Spanish low-cost airline Vueling charges a 4 euro “baby change fee” (roughly $5 at $1.27 to the euro) — the price to change a lap child’s flight, not an airborne diaper service — a fee even Spirit Airlines hasn’t tried in the United States. On the plus side, the fee to change an adult ticket is only 45 euros (about $57) on Vueling and about the same on other European airlines, a bargain compared with the $200 now demanded by many American carriers.
比如，西班牙廉航伏林航空(Vueling)要收取4欧元的“婴儿改票费”（根据欧元兑美元1.27的汇率约5美元）——为抱在怀里的婴儿更改航班，而不是机上换尿布服务——这种服务费，甚至精灵航空(Spirit Airlines)都不曾在美国尝试。但积极的一面是，伏林航空的成年人改票费只有45欧元（约57美元），欧洲其他廉航的价格也与这个差不多。这与美国多家航空公司通行的200美元改票费比起来，真的非常合算。
So it’s not all bad news, but many of the fees may surprise infrequent visitors to Europe. Here’s what to watch out for to make sure your low-fare flight doesn’t end up costing a fortune.
所以欧洲廉航花样繁多的附加费未必都是负面消息，但它们的确常让不熟悉欧洲的旅行者大吃一惊。下文的几条经验会提醒你如何避免在廉价航班上花冤枉钱。
Baggage Limits
行李限制
I ruled out Ryanair for my trip once I saw that passengers are allowed only one carry-on, weighing up to 10 kilograms (22 pounds), an amount my bag often exceeds once it’s filled with a laptop, toiletries, chargers and other electronics.
当我看到瑞安航空只允许乘客带一件随身行李且限制10公斤（12磅）的时候，立刻不再考虑它——只要塞上笔记本电脑、化妆品、充电器和其他小电器，我的行李立刻就会超过10公斤。
The dimensions of that carry-on can’t be more than 55 by 40 by 20 centimeters (or 22 by 16 by 8 inches, similar to American size limits), but don’t assume there’s wiggle room for your slightly heavier or bigger bag, as there often is in the United States.“We have sizers at the gate to make sure it fits,” said Robin Kiely, a Ryanair spokesman, pointing out that the 80 million passengers who flew Ryanair last year accept the airline’s rules in exchange for lower fares. “People get used to traveling with us, and they understand the way things work.”
随身行李的尺寸必须小于55X40X20厘米（或者22X16X8厘米，与美国的尺寸限制类似），但不要以为你行李略微超重时，他们会像美国航空公司一样对你网开一面。“我们在登机口设有尺寸测量器，以确保所有行李符合规定。”瑞安航空的发言人罗宾·凯里(Robin Kiely)说道。他还指出，去年选择瑞安航空的8000万乘客都接受了公司的规定以换取低价机票。“他们已经习惯了乘坐我们的航班出行，并理解我们的工作方式。”
Ryanair’s fee for a checked bag ranges from 15 to 140 euros, depending on whether you’re flying in low or high season, the weight of your bag (15 or 20 kilograms) and whether you pay when you book your ticket (the cheapest option) or at the airport (the most expensive). If you pay for a 15-kilogram bag but it turns out to be heavier, you’ll pay a penalty of 20 euros per kilo at the airport.
瑞安航空托运行李的收费标准是每件15至140欧元，具体数额因多种因素而异，包括你出行的时间是淡季还是旺季、行李的重量（15或20公斤）以及你是订票时付款（最便宜的方式）还是到机场时才付款（最贵的方式）。如果你支付了15公斤的行李托运费，登机时却发现超重，你就得在机场支付每公斤20欧元的罚款。
Baggage fees in the United States tend to be more standardized: usually $25 for the first checked bag on a domestic flight. Other airlines, including Aer Lingus, easyJet, Air Berlin and the British discounter Flybe, take a similar approach, charging more for your checked bag if you wait to pay the fee at the airport, and less if you select this option when you book your ticket or pay online.
美国的行李费用相对来说更加规范：国内航班第一件托运行李25美元。其他航空公司，包括爱尔兰航空、易捷航空、柏林航空(Air Berlin)和英国廉航Flybe都采用了类似的政策——如果你等到机场才付款，就必须支付更高的价格；如果你选择网上订票并支付，价格就低得多。
The airlines all tend to be strict about enforcing the one-carry-on rule, which means you can bring only a single bag — not a small rolling bag and a purse or a laptop bag, which is generally allowed in the United States. “Don’t assume that there’s going to be leniency,” said Tom Hall, the London-based director of digital editorial for Lonely Planet. “If you are caught, it is generally quite an expensive mistake.” (EasyJet charges £40, about $60, if you show up at the gate with two bags and one has to be checked.)
所有航空公司似乎都严格执行随身行李只带一件的惯例，这意味着你只能带一个背包上飞机——而不是像美国航空公司那样，允许乘客带一只滚轮箱包外加一只手提包或一台笔记本电脑。“不要以为航空公司会给你回旋余地。”孤独星球(Lonely Planet)公司驻伦敦的数码编辑汤姆·霍尔(Tom Hall)说道。“如果你被人发现，这个错误会让你损失不少钱。”（如果他们发现你带了两个背包准备登机，他们会要求你将其中一只托运并收取托运费。易捷航空的收费标准是40英镑，约合60美元。）
While size limits can vary by a few centimeters, many airlines have reduced the dimensions of carry-on bags. To encourage passengers to bring smaller bags, easyJet recently introduced a “cabin bag guarantee,” promising that any bag that was no bigger than 50 by 40 by 20 centimeters would fly in the cabin.
尽管行李的尺寸规定会有少许变化，但许多航空公司都在降低随身行李的尺寸规格。为了鼓励乘客携带更轻的行李，易捷航空最近引入了“机舱行李保证”制度，承诺任何体积小于50X40X20厘米的行李，可以直接带入客舱。
Still, if you’re not going to be traveling light, you may be better off flying British Airways or Lufthansa, which still allow passengers one free checked bag and have looser carry-on policies.
但如果你行李较多，最好选择英国航空(British Airways)或汉莎航空(Lufthansa)，这些公司现在仍然允许乘客免费托运一件行李，随身行李政策也比较宽松。
Check-In Rules
值机程序的规则
Another way visitors to Europe can get tripped up (and sometimes gouged) is by overlooking rules about the check-in process. Ryanair charges 70 euros if you don’t print your boarding pass and have to get one at the airport. That fee is per passenger, so a family of four would be charged 280 euros. In the United States, Spirit Airlines charges $10 a passenger if you need an agent to print your pass.
另一件可能给赴欧旅行者带来挫折甚至受骗感的事，是忽视了值机程序的规则。如果你没有自己打印登机牌、不得不在机场打印的话，瑞安航空会向你收取70欧元。这个费用是按人头收的，所以一个四人之家会被收取280欧元。美国的精灵航空，如果你必须让工作人员为你打印登机牌，航空公司会收取每人10美元的费用。
Ryanair does allow passengers to check in online starting 15 days before their flight, versus 24 hours ahead of time in the United States, but Mr. Kiely said the airline does not offer mobile boarding passes, and won’t waive the fee for customers who plead ignorance.
的确，瑞安航空允许乘客在起飞之前15天办理网上值机手续，而美国航空公司的规定是起飞前24小时内。但凯里说，该公司不提供手机登机牌的服务，对那些自称不知情而违反规则的乘客绝不会降低罚款数额。
This spring, easyJet also adopted an online-only check-in policy, allowing passengers to check in as early as 30 days before their flight. But the airline is not charging a penalty if customers show up at the airport without a boarding pass, at least for now.
今年春天，易捷航空也推出了只限在线值机的政策，允许乘客在航班起飞30天前办理值机手续。但对那些没有出示登机牌的乘客，公司并不收取罚金，至少现在如此。
“In exceptional circumstances, the customer service desk can help them,” said Anna Knowles, an easyJet spokeswoman. EasyJet is testing mobile boarding passes, which will let travelers save their boarding pass on their phone instead of seeking out a printer. Flybe and Air Berlin already offer this option.
“在特殊情况下，客户服务柜台可以帮助他们。”易捷航空发言人安娜·诺尔斯(Anna Knowles)说。目前易捷航空正在测试手机登机牌，正式推出的话乘客可以即将登机牌保存在手机上，而不是到处寻找打印机。Flybe和柏林航空目前已经推出这种服务。 
Also pay attention to check-in, bag drop and boarding time limits, which vary by airport and carrier. If you’re flying Ryanair, your bag has to be dropped off at least 40 minutes before departure (on British Airways, it’s typically 45 minutes); on easyJet, boarding closes 30 minutes before the flight’s scheduled departure.
此外，请注意选座、行李托运和登机的时间限制，这些根据不同的机场和航空公司而不同。如果你乘坐瑞安航空的航班，你的行李必须在起飞40分钟之前托运（而英国航空一般是45分钟）；易捷航空的登机口会在起飞前30分钟关闭。
Service Fees
服务费
Other fees to watch for include “administrative fees” to buy a ticket (5 euros on Vueling, 7 euros on the Hungarian discounter Wizz Air) and surcharges if you pay with a credit card (2.5 percent of your total ticket price on easyJet, 2 percent on Ryanair and 3 percent on Flybe). By using a debit card, you can usually avoid a fee.
其他值得注意的费用，还有购买机票时的“手续费”（伏林航空5欧元，匈牙利廉航威兹航空[Wizz Air]是7欧元）和用信用卡支付时的附加费（易捷航空是机票全额的2.5%，瑞安是2%，Flybe是3%）。如果你使用借记卡支付，就不需支付任何附加费。
You may also have to pay simply to call customer service: 10 pence a minute if you’re dialing easyJet or Flybe; to reach a human at Ryanair, prices vary depending on what country you’re calling from, but can be more than 1 euro a minute if you opt for “priority assistance.”
即使是拨打客服电话，你可能也要付钱：致电易捷或Flybe的客服，每分钟10便士；致电瑞安航空并与真人说话的价格取决于你从哪个国家拨打电话，但如果你要求“优先帮助”的话，每分钟可能超过1欧元。
If you’re traveling with a lap child (under 2 years old), learn if you’ll have to pay an “infant fee,” typically about 30 euros a flight, a fee American carriers have not embraced. If you book a seat for your child and bring a car seat on board, Ryanair also charges an “infant equipment fee” (10 euros in advance, 20 at the airport).
如果你带着婴儿（2岁以下）旅行，请研究一下是否需要支付“婴儿费”，通常是一张机票另付30欧元，而美国航空公司一般不收这种费用。如果你为自己的孩子订了一张机票并自带一个汽车安全座椅，瑞安航空也会收取“婴儿设施费”（订票时只用交10欧元，在机场则交20欧元）。
Surcharges for seat reservations and priority boarding should be less surprising to American visitors, and may be lower than what United States airlines charge.
预留座位费和优先登机费对美国旅行者来说应该不算陌生，但美国航空公司的收费数额要小一些。
If all of this makes you decide to take the train or ferry instead (which is what I did, paying $68, about half of what it would have cost to fly from Dublin to Glasgow with bag fees), that just confirms the airline industry’s claim that à la carte pricing gives customers choices. And in Europe, many travelers still choose to fly.
如果以上这些信息让你决定乘坐火车或轮船（我就是这样做的，我从都柏林到格拉斯哥船票含行李费68美元，价格大约是机票的一半），就恰恰验证了航空业的说法：“复杂的定价策略让乘客有更多选择”。在欧洲，许多旅行者仍然选择乘坐飞机。