AT age 70, I did not imagine that I would fall in love again and remarry. But the past 20 years have made my life a story of two great loves.
在70岁那个年纪，我没有想过会重新坠入爱河并再婚。但刚刚过去的这20年，让我的人生故事里有了第二段伟大的爱情。
On Jan. 3, 1996, the telephone rang just before midnight, interrupting the silence of the hospital room. From the bedside of my wife, Clare, I lifted the receiver. “Please hold for the president.” Bill Clinton had heard that Clare, struck by acute leukemia, was fading. She listened and smiled but was too weak to speak.
1996年1月3日，电话铃声在午夜前响起，打破了医院病房的寂静。在妻子克莱尔的病床边，我拿起听筒。 “请等待总统与您通话。”比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)已经听说克莱尔得了白血病，身体状况越来越差。克莱尔微笑着听我讲电话，但她太虚弱了，无法开口。
Some hours later, I held her hands in mine as she died. During 48 years of marriage, we had spent a lifetime together.
几个小时后，我握着布莱尔的手，看着她离开人世。48年的婚姻，我们共度了一生的时光。
In the cold spring that followed, I felt grateful to be alive, lucky to have many friends and family members, and glad for a challenging assignment from President Clinton involving national service. But I also wondered what it would be like living by myself for the rest of my life. I was sure I would never again feel the kind of love Clare and I shared.
接下来的那个寒冷的春天里，我为自己仍然活着而感激不尽，为自己拥有众多朋友和家人而觉得幸运，而克林顿总统委派我去做一项富有挑战性的国民服务工作，也让我很高兴。但我也在疑惑，独自一人度过余下的人生会是什么感觉。我确信自己再也无法体验和克莱尔共同拥有的那种爱情。
Clare and I fell in love trying to save the world during World War II. I had founded a student organization to promote a postwar union of democracies to keep the peace. When I left to serve in the Army Air Corps, Clare became national president, guiding the Student Federalists as the group grew across the country.
二战期间，我和克莱尔在拯救世界的过程中相爱。我创办了一个学生组织，旨在帮助建立一个维护和平的战后民主联盟。我去美国空军服役的时候，克莱尔成了学生联邦党(Student Federalists)全国委员会主席，在她领导下，组织在全国范围内得到发展壮大。
Our romance and adventure continued for five decades. When I was running for election to the Senate in 1991, Clare gave up her job to become an all-out campaigner, helping us win in a landslide. In my narrow losing re-election campaign of 1994, astute Pennsylvanians observed that if Clare had been the candidate, she would have won.
我们的爱情和探险持续了50年。在1991年我竞选参议员之际，克莱尔辞去工作，全心参与竞选，在她帮助下，我们取得了压倒性的胜利。1994年竞选连任时，我以微弱劣势惜败，精明的宾夕法尼亚人指出，如果克莱尔是候选人，那她一定会胜出。
We spent a happy half-century together with different perspectives on life. Growing up during the Depression, in which her father suffered while my family prospered, she became a skeptic while I emerged an optimist.
我们有着不同的人生观，却幸福地携手走过了半个世纪。我们都是在大萧条时期长大的，当时她的父亲处境艰难，我的家族却很富裕，于是她变成了怀疑论者，我则变成了乐观主义者。
In 1963, we enjoyed visiting the philosopher Martin Buber in his quiet Jerusalem study. In his “Paths in Utopia,” Buber says a good and great idea will rise again when idea and fate meet in a creative hour. Hopefully, I asked him if he saw that creative hour coming soon to achieve peace for Israelis and Palestinians. Before he could answer, Clare laughed skeptically, saying, “From what I’ve seen, it will be a long time coming.”
1963年，我们去耶路撒冷拜访哲学家马丁·布伯(Martin Buber)，颇为享受地在他那安静的书房里度过了一段时光。布伯在他的《乌托邦之路》(Paths in Utopia)里说过，当思想和命运在创造性时刻交汇，美好而伟大的思想将再度崛起。我满怀希望地问他，让以色列和巴勒斯坦实现和平的创造性时刻是否很快就会到来。还没等他回答，克莱尔带着怀疑意味地笑了起来，说，“在我看来，那是很久以后的事了。”
Buber said to Clare, “You are right, that the time between creative hours can be very long, but they do come, and I hope that when one comes, your realism will not make you miss it.” And as we parted, he told me, “You are obviously a romantic, my friend, and I hope you recognize that a romantic needs a realist like Clare.”
布伯对克莱尔说，“你说的没错，创造性时刻之间可能会隔着漫长的岁月，但它一定会到来，我希望到那时你的现实主义不会让你错失它。”临别时，他告诉我，“我的朋友，你显然是一个浪漫主义者，我希望你能明白，浪漫主义者需要克莱尔这样的现实主义者。”
For our three children and me, Clare was at the heart of our family. When I told her, “You’re my best friend,” she would reply, “and your best critic.” And when I said, “You’re my best critic,” she responded, “and your best friend.”
对于我和我们的三个孩子而言，克莱尔是这个家的心脏。当我对她说“你是我最好的朋友”时，她会答，“以及最好的批评者。”而当我说，“你是我最好的批评者，”她会回应，“以及最好的朋友。”
We were both about to turn 70 when she died. I assumed that I was too old to seek or expect another romance. But five years later, standing on a beach in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., I sensed a creative hour and did not want to miss it.
她离世时，我们俩都快满70岁了。我自认已经老到不可能再去追寻或者期待另一段恋情。但五年后，站在佛罗里达州劳德代尔堡的海滩上，我感受到了创造性时刻的来临，并且不想错过。
It was afternoon, and the tanning beachgoers faced west, toward the wall of concrete buildings lining the boulevard, to catch the sun, ignoring the beautiful sea. I swam alone in the water, attracting the attention of two bystanders near the shore. They came over to say hello, which is how I met Matthew Charlton.
那是一个午后，在海滩上晒日光浴的人们面朝西方，对着林荫大道旁边那些混凝土建筑的墙壁，以便晒到太阳。我在水里独自游泳，引起了岸边两个路人的注意。他们走过来打了声招呼，我就是这样和马修·查尔顿(Matthew Charlton)相遇的。
As we talked, I was struck by Matthew’s inquisitive and thoughtful manner and his charm. I knew he was somebody I would enjoy getting to know. We were decades apart in age with far different professional interests, yet we clicked.
聊天的时候，我被马修好奇又体贴的态度，以及他特有的魅力打动。我知道他是我会想要结识的那种人。我们年龄相差几十岁，职业兴趣也大相径庭，但我们却非常投机。
I admired Matthew’s adventurous 25-year-old spirit. When he told me that I was “young at heart,” I liked the idea, until I saw a picture of him on a snowboard upside down executing a daring back flip. The Jackson Hole newspaper carried the caption, “Charlton landed the jump without mishap.”
我欣赏马修那种25岁年轻人的冒险精神。当他对我说我“有一颗年轻的心”时，我挺喜欢这种说法，直到我看见他滑雪时做大胆后空翻表演的照片。《杰克逊霍尔报》(The Jackson Hole)为之配了这样一个图片说明：“查尔顿这一跳平稳着陆”。
We took trips around the country and later to Europe together, becoming great friends. We both felt the immediate spark, and as time went on, we realized that our bond had grown into love. Other than with Clare, I had never felt love blossom this way before.
我们在美国各地旅游，后来还一起去了欧洲，成为特别好的朋友。最初我们都感觉到了彼此擦出的火花，随着时间推移，我们意识到这种关系变成了爱情。除了和克莱尔在一起的时候，我此前从没感受过爱情会如此绽放。
It was three years before I got the nerve to tell my sons and daughter about Matthew. I brought a scrapbook of photographs, showing Matthew and me on our travels, to a large family wedding. It was not the direct discussion the subject deserved. Yet over time my children have welcomed Matthew as a member of the family, while Matthew’s parents have accepted me warmly.
过了三年，我才鼓起勇气告诉了儿子和女儿有关马修的事。我带着一本相簿参加了一场大型家庭婚礼，上面是我和马修旅行时拍的照片。我们没有进行直接的对话，尽管这件事本该直说。不过，时间久了，孩子们也接受了马修，将他看作家庭的一员，而马修的父母也热情地接纳了我。
To some, our bond is entirely natural, to others it comes as a strange surprise, but most soon see the strength of our feelings and our devotion to each other. We have now been together for 15 years.
对有些人来说，我们的结合非常自然，对其他人而言，可能是比较大的意外，但人们大多很快就看出我们感情甚笃，彼此关爱。如今我们在一起已经15年了。
Too often, our society seeks to label people by pinning them on the wall — straight, gay or in between. I don’t categorize myself based on the gender of those I love. I had a half-century of marriage with a wonderful woman, and now am lucky for a second time to have found happiness.
这个社会往往喜欢给人贴标签——异性恋、同性恋或双性恋。我不会依据所爱的人的性别来给自己归类。我和一位优秀的女性有过长达半世纪的婚姻，现在我第二次幸运地找到了幸福。
For a long time, I did not suspect that idea and fate might meet in my lifetime to produce same-sex marriage equality. My focus was on other issues facing our nation, especially advancing national service for all. Seeking to change something as deeply ingrained in law and public opinion as the definition of marriage seemed impossible.
在很长一段时间里，我从没想过思想和命运的交汇，会在我有生之年带来同性的平等婚姻权利。之前，我的注意力放在这个国家面临的其他议题上，尤其是为所有人提高国家服务方面。我曾感觉，试图在法律和大众观念里改变像婚姻的定义这种如此根深蒂固的东西，好像是不可能的。
I was wrong, and should not have been so pessimistic. I had seen firsthand — working and walking with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. — that when the time was right, major change for civil rights came to pass in a single creative decade. It is right to expand our conception of marriage to include all Americans who love each other.
我错了，而且我不该如此悲观。我曾亲眼见证过——与牧师小马丁·路德·金博士共事、同行——时机到来的时候，公民权领域的重大改变可以在充满创造性的短短十年内发生。我们应该扩大对婚姻这一概念的理解，将所有彼此相爱的美国人都纳入这个范畴。
Matthew is very different from Clare. The political causes that continue to move me do not preoccupy him, nor have I turned my priorities to design, the focus of his driving talent. Still, the same force of love is at work bringing two people together.
马修和克莱尔非常不同。持续推动我前行的政治事业不会占据他太多思考，而我也不会把自己的重心转向设计，也就是他所专注和施展才华的领域。不过，同样的爱的力量让这样两个人走到了一起。
That instinctive emotion gives me new appreciation for these words from Robert Frost:
这种来自本能的情感让我对罗伯特·弗罗斯特(Robert Frost)的这些话有了新的理解：
And yet for all this help of head and brain
尽管有头脑和智慧的诸多辅助
How happily instinctive we remain,
我们还是开心地保留直觉的本色，
Our best guide upward further to the light,
它是我们最好的向导，引我们走向光明，
Passionate preference such as love at sight.
诸如爱情这般充满激情的偏爱，一眼便知。
Twice in my life, I’ve felt the pull of such passionate preference. At age 90, I am lucky to be in an era where the Supreme Court has strengthened what President Obama calls “the dignity of marriage” by recognizing that matrimony is not based on anyone’s sexual nature, choices or dreams. It is based on love.
这一生中，我曾两次感受到这种充满激情的偏爱。90岁的时候，我幸运地赶上了一个好时代，最高法院强化了奥巴马总统所说的“婚姻的尊严”，承认婚姻不是建立在任何人的性的本质、选择或梦想上。它是基于爱而存在。
All this is on my mind as Matthew and I prepare for our marriage ceremony. On April 30, at ages 90 and 40, we will join hands, vowing to be bound together: to have and to hold, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, until death do us part.
在和马修筹备我们的婚礼之时，这些思绪一直萦绕在我的心头。4月30日，90岁的我和40岁的他将携起双手，宣誓结为连理：不论顺境逆境，贫穷还是富裕，疾病或是健康，不离不弃，一直相爱并相互珍惜，直到生命终结。