SANA, Yemen — A large car bomb exploded outside a police academy in Yemen’s capital, Sana, early Wednesday, killing or wounding dozens of applicants who were lined up at the building’s gate, according to security officials.
也门萨那——安全官员称，周三早上，也门首都萨那的一所警官学院外发生大规模汽车炸弹爆炸，导致在建筑外排队的数十名报名入学者伤亡。
An Interior Ministry official said that at least 38 people were killed and that more than 90 were wounded.
一名内政部官员说，至少38人死亡，超过90人受伤。
Investigators said there was no immediate claim of responsibility for the bombing. The attack was the deadliest in the capital since October, when a suicide bomber killed nearly 50 people at a protest.
调查人员称，目前无人宣称对爆炸负责。这是去年10月以来萨那发生的死亡人数最多的一次袭击。去年10月，一名自杀式袭击者在一场抗议活动中导致近50人死亡。
Video of the aftermath of Wednesday’s bombing showed bodies in heaps outside the walls of the academy and police officers removing the mangled wreckage of cars.
周三爆炸发生后的视频显示，在学院的墙外堆放着大量尸体，警察正在清除损毁的汽车残骸。
Violence has surged in Yemen over the past few months, reflecting growing instability and tension since the Houthis, a former rebel group, took control of Sana in late September. The Houthis have expanded their reach across the country, galvanizing their opponents, including Sunni extremists belonging to Al Qaeda’s local affiliate, who have responded with an intensifying campaign of bombings and assassinations.
过去几个月，也门的暴力事件急剧增多，反映出自从前叛乱组织胡塞(Houthi)9月末夺取萨那的控制权之后，不稳定和紧张状况正日益加剧。胡塞将控制范围扩大到了全国，这极大地刺激了对手，其中包括基地组织在当地分支机构内的逊尼派极端分子，作为回应，后者加大了爆炸和暗杀行动的力度。
Scenes of carnage like that on Wednesday are becoming disturbingly routine in Yemen, an impoverished country bedeviled by the persistent strength of the militants of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the local branch of the extremist group and a frequent target of United States missile strikes.
让人不安的是，周三的这类袭击事件在也门越发常见。这个贫穷的国家受到了阿拉伯半岛基地组织武装分子的持续折磨。阿拉伯半岛基地组织是基地组织的地方分支，也常常是美国发动导弹袭击的目标。
Al Qaeda regards the Houthis as heretics because their leadership is drawn from the minority Zaydi sect, an offshoot of Shiism.
基地组织将胡塞视为异端，因为他们的领袖来自少数的宰德派(Zaydi)，一个什叶派(Shiism)分支。
The American missile strikes, combined with the Houthi advance, appear to be transforming Al Qaeda into a more potent foe, according to analysts. Attacks by the militants, which had largely focused on the military and security personnel, are increasingly killing civilians.
分析人士称，美国的导弹攻击连同胡塞的推进，似乎正在把基地组织变成一个更强大的敌人。早前，武装分子发动的攻击主要集中在军方和安全人员身上，但现在，在这些攻击中遇害的平民越来越多。
Last month, Al Qaeda bombings killed at least three dozen people, including schoolgirls and people celebrating the Prophet Muhammad’s birthday at a cultural center.
上月，基地组织制造的爆炸事件导致至少36人丧生，其中包括女学生，以及在一处文化中心庆祝先知穆罕默德(Prophet Muhammad)诞辰的人。
Muathe al-Sharaei, a witness to Wednesday’s bombing, said that hundreds of people had been lined up outside the police academy, including many who had camped out for days in search of coveted work. The police had used water cannons several days earlier in an attempt to disperse the applicants, fearing that, after another bombing elsewhere in the capital, the applicants were an easy target, Mr. Sharaei said.
周三爆炸事件的目击者穆阿特·沙拉埃伊(Muathe al-Sharaei)说，当时那所警官学院外面排了数百人，为了寻找梦寐以求的工作，他们中许多人已在外宿营多天。他说，早前首都另一个地方发生了一起爆炸事件后，警方担心申请者容易成为攻击的目标，动用了高压水炮试图将人群驱散。
Many of the victims of the bombing were taken to Al-Thawra Hospital, where relatives had difficulty identifying bodies that were badly disfigured by the blast. Some found clues like identification cards in the pockets of charred clothing.
此次爆炸事件中的许多遇难者都被送到了革命医院(Al-Thawra Hospital)。爆炸使遇难者面无全非，导致亲属难以辨认遗体。一些人在烧焦的衣服口袋里找到了身份证等线索。
In an office at the hospital, Ahmed al-Subaei, an investigator, held a list of the victims as he answered telephone calls and delivered nothing but grim news. “Muthana is dead,” he told one caller. “Yes, he’s dead,” he said to the next.
在该医院的一间办公室里，手握一份遇难者名单接电话的调查人员艾哈迈德·苏巴埃伊(Ahmed al-Subaei)，传递的都是残忍的消息。“穆萨纳(Muthana)死了，”他对一名打电话过来的人说。“是的，他死了，”他对另一个打来电话的人说。