SANAA, Yemen — Houthi rebel militiamen seized control of the Yemen president’s palace and shelled his residence on Tuesday, the information minister reported, in an escalation of the violent crisis that has gripped the capital for the past days and raised fears of a coup in one of the Arab world’s weakest countries.
也门萨那——也门信息部长通报称暴力危机升级，胡塞(Houthi)叛乱武装于周二夺取了对总统府的控制权，并炮轰总统官邸。过去这些天里，危机一直笼罩着该国首都，并让外界担心，堪称阿拉伯世界最为衰弱的这个国家会发生政变。
The president, Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi, an important American ally, was believed to be in the capital, but his exact whereabouts was unknown. He made no public statements as the fighting escalated, though Houthi leaders insisted on Tuesday evening that he was safe.
也门总统阿卜杜·拉布·曼苏尔·哈迪(Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi)是美国的重要盟友。据信哈迪身在首都，但具体行踪不得而知。战斗升级期间，他未公开发言，不过胡塞领导人周二傍晚坚称，他是安全的。
Later on Tuesday, the most senior Houthi leader, Abdel Malik Al-Houthi, gave a televised speech indicating that the advances by his fighters on Tuesday were intended as a warning to President Hadi, rather than an attempt to depose him. If President Hadi did not respond to a set of demands, Mr. Houthi said, “all necessary measures will be open.”
周二晚些时候，胡塞最高领导人阿卜杜勒·马利克·胡塞(Abdel Malik Al-Houthi)发表电视讲话，称其武装分子周二发动攻势是为了警告哈迪总统，并非想要推翻他。胡塞说，如果哈迪总统不回应一系列诉求，“一切必要措施都是有可能的。”
The mayhem that has convulsed Yemen, which left at least eight people dead on Monday in Sana, is increasingly worrisome to American officials because the country is the home base of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which has asserted responsibility for a number of attacks, most notably the deadly assault on the Charlie Hebdo newspaper in Paris this month.
周一，震动也门的混乱在萨那至少导致八人死亡。美国官员的担忧日渐加剧，因为该国是阿拉伯半岛基地组织(Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula)的大本营。该组织已声称对多起袭击负责，尤其是本月巴黎《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)遭遇的致命袭击。
While the Houthis oppose Al Qaeda, they also oppose the strong American influence on Yemen’s government, which has cooperated in dozens of American drone strikes against Al Qaeda leaders and their subordinates.
胡塞反对基地组织，但也反对美国对也门政府的强大影响。在美国对基地组织领导人及其下属发起的十多次无人机袭击中，也门政府均给予了协助。
The Houthi seizure of the presidential palace and shelling of the residence came after what the country’s information minister, Nadia Sakkaf, described as heavy shelling of both by armed militia members.
在胡塞夺取总统府并炮轰总统官邸前，也门信息部长纳迪亚·萨卡夫(Nadia Sakkaf)就称，那两个地点遭到了武装分子密集的炮轰。
Ms. Sakkaf, who has been providing a Twitter feed about the increased mayhem in the capital, said in one post that the presidential residence had come under heavy shelling by militiamen in the midafternoon and that the presidential palace had also been attacked.
萨卡夫一直在Twitter上发帖，介绍首都加剧的混乱。他在其中一条消息中说，下午3点左右，总统的住所遭到武装分子的密集炮轰，且总统官邸也遭到了袭击。
Houthi guards were later seen outside both compounds.
晚些时候，有人在那两处院落外面看到了胡塞的守卫。
“Events in Yemen are changing and developing very rapidly,” Ms. Sakkaf said in a series of postings on the violence, which appeared to have shattered a fragile cease-fire that took effect late on Monday.
“也门的事件正在迅速演变和发展，”萨卡夫在一些列有关此次暴力事件的消息中说。暴力事件似乎已经破坏了脆弱的停火，停火协议周一夜里刚刚生效。
There were conflicting accounts of what appeared to be a political vacuum in the capital. CNN quoted Ms. Sakkaf as saying the situation was “the completion of a coup” and that the president had “no control.” Efforts to contact Ms. Sakkaf about those quoted remarks were not immediately successful, as her phone was switched off.
也门首都似乎陷入了政治真空，对于这种局面存在着一些相互矛盾的说法。CNN援引萨卡夫的话报道，目前的局势是“军事政变已经完成”，总统已经“失去掌控”。记者试图联系萨卡夫，询问有关上述说法的问题，但没有成功，她的电话处于关机状态。
Government officials have accused the Houthi militiamen, members of an increasingly powerful movement whose leaders are Zaydi Shiites from northern Yemen, of trying to carry out a coup.
政府官员指责胡塞武装组织的成员企图发动政变。该组织的实力正日益增强，其成员属于也门北部什叶派的分支宰德派(Zaydi)。
The Houthis, who have asserted their strength in Sana more forcefully in recent weeks, have been pressing Mr. Hadi over troubled negotiations on a draft constitution.
最近几周，胡塞武装分子更加强硬地在萨那展示了实力。在就一项宪法草案举行的艰难谈判中，胡塞一直在向哈迪施压。
Ali Al-Qahoom, a Houthi political leader, said there had been clashes on Tuesday afternoon at Mr. Hadi’s residence, but that by early evening, the fighting had been “contained.”
胡塞政治领袖阿里·卡胡姆(Ali Al-Qahoom)称，哈迪的官邸周二下午发生了冲突，但到傍晚前，冲突已经“得到了控制”。
By about 6:30 p.m., the streets leading to the president’s residence were quiet, but heavily guarded and blocked by Houthi gunmen, who turned approaching cars away.
下午6点30分左右，通向总统官邸的几条街道十分安静，但有重兵把守，并被胡塞武装分子阻断，他们让驶来的汽车绕道而行。
A five-minute drive from the residence, the presidential palace was also surrounded by Houthi gunmen, on foot and in armored vehicles. Presidential guard troops were seen leaving the palace with their belongings, and said that they had been ordered to leave by the Houthis.
在距离总统官邸五分钟车程的地方，总统府也被步行或乘坐装甲车的胡塞武装分子包围。有人看见总统的警卫队带着自己的行李离开了总统府，据说这是胡塞武装的命令。
The deterioration in Yemen on Tuesday preoccupied diplomats at the United Nations Security Council, which held an emergency session to hear from its special envoy to the country, Jamal Benomar.
周二也门局势的恶化，成了联合国安理会外交官们的工作重心。他们召开了紧急会议，听取联合国驻也门特使贾迈勒·班诺马尔(Jamal Benomar)的汇报。
He told diplomats that the rebels had used heavy weapons in an attack on the presidential palace, and that presidential guards had fought back.
班诺马尔告诉他们，叛乱分子在袭击总统府时使用了重型武器，总统的警卫进行了反击。
In a statement issued by the Security Council on Tuesday afternoon, members emphasized that President Hadi was still the recognized authority in Yemen. The statement “condemned the recourse to violence in recent days” and urged a renewed dialogue on the draft constitution.
在周二下午发布的声明中，安理会成员强调，哈迪总统仍然是受到承认的也门政府领导人。这份声明“谴责最近几日的暴力行径”，并敦促重新就宪法草案展开对话。
American officials in Yemen disclosed that a United States diplomatic vehicle in Sana came under fire Monday evening at a Houthi checkpoint near the embassy. Christiaan James, a spokesman for the embassy, said Houthi gunmen had first fired in the air then turned their weapons on the vehicle.
美国驻也门的官员披露，周一傍晚，美国外交人员乘坐的一台车辆在大使馆附近一个胡塞武装设置的检查站遭到了袭击。大使馆发言人克里斯蒂安·詹姆斯(Christiaan James)说，胡塞武装分子先是朝天开枪，然后把武器对准了他们的车。