WASHINGTON — Only months ago, American officials were still referring to Yemen’s negotiated transition from autocracy to an elected president as a model for post–revolutionary Arab states.
华盛顿——仅仅几个月前，美国官员还表示，也门通过谈判从独裁统治过渡到了民选总统，为发生革命后的阿拉伯国家树立了典范。
Now, after days of factional gun battles in the Yemeni capital that left the president a puppet figure confined to his residence, the country appears to be at risk of fragmenting in ways that could provide greater opportunities both for Iran and for Al Qaeda, whose Yemeni branch claimed responsibility for the Paris terror attack earlier this month.
然而现在，不同派系在也门首都进行了持续多日的枪战，导致总统成了一个不能离开自己宅邸的傀儡。看起来，也门存在四分五裂的风险，而且可能为伊朗和基地组织(Al Qaeda)提供更大的机会。基地组织的也门分支已经声称对本月早些时候巴黎的恐怖袭击事件负责。
The latest Yemen crisis raises the prospect of yet another Arab country where the United States faces rising dangers but no strong partners amid a landscape of sectarian violence. Although the Houthi rebels who now effectively control the state are at war with Al Qaeda, they are also allied with Iran and with Yemen’s former president, Ali Abdullah Saleh. The Houthis’ rise to a dominant position may set off local conflicts in ways that would give more breathing room to Al Qaeda’s local branch, which has repeatedly struck at the United States. Yemen’s elected president, Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi, is a stalwart American ally but has almost no domestic support.
在一些发生宗派暴力活动的阿拉伯国家，美国面临着不断增大的危险，但却缺乏强有力的盟友，而也门最近发生的危机，可能让它成为又一个这样的国家。尽管已经实质控制也门的胡塞(Houthi)叛军在与基地组织交战，但他们与伊朗以及也门前总统阿里·阿卜杜拉·萨利赫(Ali Abdullah Saleh)是盟友。它发展成为一股主导势力，可能会引发局部冲突，给基地组织在该国的分支提供更多的喘息空间。该分支曾多次开展攻击美国的活动。也门现任民选总统阿卜杜·拉布·曼苏尔·哈迪(Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi)是美国的坚定盟友，但他在国内几乎没有支持者。
“The Yemeni state has always been weak, but now there’s a real danger of economic meltdown, and of the kind of fragmentation that could ultimately make Yemen almost ungovernable,” said April Alley, an analyst with the International Crisis Group, a nonprofit organization that works to resolve conflicts.
“也门政府一直软弱无力，但现在，真真切切地出现了经济崩溃和国家四分五裂的危险，最终可能会让也门变得无法治理，”致力于解决冲突的非营利机构国际危机组织(International Crisis Group)的分析师阿普丽尔·艾利(April Alley)说。
The Houthi takeover — which began in September and was reinforced in recent days — has deepened sectarian and regional divisions in a desperately poor country that has long been a sanctuary for jihadists. And though the latest round of fighting appeared to end Wednesday when Mr. Hadi conceded to the Houthis’ political demands, the underlying crisis will continue to fester, analysts say.
也门是一个极度贫困的国家，长期以来都是圣战分子的避风港。胡塞对权力的接管——从去年9月开始并于近期获得了巩固——加深了该国的宗派和地区分裂趋势。分析人士称，尽管最新一轮的战事似乎已经在哈迪对胡塞的政治诉求做出让步后于本周三结束，但深层危机预计将继续恶化。
The deal announced Wednesday addressed a number of the Houthis’ grievances, including a lack of representation in government bodies and complaints about provisions in a draft constitution. In return, the Houthis agreed to withdraw fighters from the presidential palace and other parts of Sana and to release an aide to Mr. Hadi who was kidnapped by Houthi gunmen on Saturday. But there was little doubt that the Houthis, who have threatened repeatedly in recent months to use force to win political concessions, remain in control.
周三宣布的协议回应了让胡塞不满的诸多问题，其中包括政府机构里缺少他们的人，以及宪法草案里存在一些他们反对的条款。作为交换，胡塞同意从总统府和萨那其他一些地方撤出武装人员，并且释放哈迪的一名幕僚。这名幕僚上周六遭到了胡塞武装人员的绑架。不过，几乎没有疑问的是，控制权仍在胡塞手里。他们最近几个月曾多次威胁要使用武力来赢得政治让步。
The Houthis’ public humiliation of Mr. Hadi — a southerner — prompted southern rebels to close the country’s chief port in Aden and shut the border between the north and south earlier this week, raising the specter of actual secession. Armed tribesmen have cut off oil exports in three southern provinces. And Saudi Arabia, which sees the Houthis as a proxy of its regional rival, Iran, has shut off almost all aid to the Yemeni government, leaving it virtually penniless and unable to pay salaries.
哈迪是也门南部人。胡塞对他的公开羞辱，导致南部反政府武装本周早些时候关闭了该国在亚丁湾的主要港口，并封锁了南北之间的分界线。此举不禁让人想到该国实际上走向分裂的可怕前景。武装起来的部落人员已经切断了南部三个省份的石油出口。与此同时，沙特阿拉伯把胡塞视为其中东地区竞争对手伊朗的代理人，因此切断了对也门政府的几乎所有援助，导致也门政府基本上一贫如洗，发不出工资。
The Saudis, who have long been Yemen’s economic lifeline, pumping in more than $4 billion since 2012, say they would rather allow the Houthis to take the blame for the approaching economic collapse than provide aid to an Iranian client, according to a Yemeni official who spoke on condition of anonymity, citing diplomatic protocol. Other Persian Gulf countries are likely to follow the Saudi lead.
沙特一直是也门的经济命脉，自2012年来已经向该国注入了逾40亿美元（约合250亿元人民币）资金。一位援引外交规则而不愿具名的也门官员说，沙特表示，他们不愿为伊朗的代理人提供援助，宁可让胡塞为即将到来的经济崩溃承担责任。其他波斯湾国家很可能会效仿沙特的做法。
In another ominous sign, the Houthis appear to be gearing up for a major battle with their Sunni Islamist rivals in Marib Province, to the east of the capital, where much of Yemen’s oil infrastructure is. That could prove devastating to Yemen’s government and economy, which is deeply dependent on oil. It could also exacerbate sectarian tensions in a country that was almost entirely free of them until recently. The Houthis belong to the Zaydi branch of Shiite Islam, and Saudi Arabia — whose leaders see all Shiites as heretics — has been providing aid to Sunni tribes in Marib, diplomats say, fueling another proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran. Some of the tribes refer to the Houthis as an occupying force, undermining their claim to represent a broad-based national movement.
另一个不祥之兆是，胡塞似乎正在准备与敌对的逊尼派伊斯兰主义武装在首都以东的马里卜省大战一场。也门的很多石油基础设施就位于该省。对于极为依赖石油的也门政府和经济来说，这场战斗或许会带来毁灭性的打击。它还可能会加剧也门最近才显现的宗派冲突。胡塞属于伊斯兰教什叶派的宰德派(Zaydi)分支，而沙特领导人视所有的什叶派为异端。外交人士称，沙特一直在为马里卜的逊尼派部族提供援助，这将推动沙特和伊朗之间的另一场代理人战争。胡塞自称代表着一个基础广泛的民族运动，但被有些部族称为占领军，让他们的说法站不住脚。
In Washington, military and intelligence officials expressed grave concerns on Wednesday about the violence in Sana, and the impact any further deterioration could have on one of the Obama administration’s staunchest counterterrorism partners. Michael G. Vickers, the Pentagon’s top intelligence policy official, said analysts were still trying to determine the Houthis’ ultimate goal.
本周三，对于萨那发生的暴力事件，以及局面进一步恶化对奥巴马政府最坚定的反恐合作伙伴之一可能产生的影响，华盛顿的一些军事和情报官员表示了严重关切。五角大楼负责情报政策的最高官员迈克尔·维克斯(Michael G. Vickers)表示，分析师们仍在努力确认胡塞的最终目标。
The Houthis’ ongoing and bloody battle with Al Qaeda has led some in the West to see them as potential partners, despite the trademark Houthi slogan, “God is great, Death to America, Death to Israel.”
胡塞正在与基地组织进行血腥战斗。因此，尽管胡塞的标志性口号是“真主至大，美国必亡，以色列必亡”，西方还是有一些人把他们视为潜在的合作伙伴。
Under Yemen’s former president, Mr. Saleh, “the formula was to milk the U.S.A. for support in the fight against Al Qaeda, which was a recipe for more drones and more radicalization,” said Bernard Haykel, a professor at Princeton who has written extensively on Yemen. “The Houthis actually want to fight Al Qaeda, which could be more effective.”
在也门前总统萨利赫统治时期，“他们套取美国的支持来打击基地组织，而这个方法导致了更多的无人机轰炸和更大程度的激进主义，”普林斯顿教授伯纳德·黑克尔(Bernard Haykel)说。他撰写了大量关于也门的著作。“胡塞的确想打击基地组织，而这样可能成效更大。”
But the Houthis are also allied with Mr. Saleh, who remains a powerful figure in Yemen and is bent on revenge on those who engineered his ouster during the turmoil of 2011. If the Houthis succeed in consolidating power, many in Yemen expect a bloody power struggle between them and Mr. Saleh’s loyalists in the military and the tribes.
不过，胡塞也是萨利赫的盟友。萨利赫在也门仍然有权有势，而且执意要报复在2011年的骚乱期间策划推翻他的那些人。如果胡塞成功巩固了权力，很多也门人预计，他们会与萨利赫在军队和部族中的效忠者之间迸发血腥的权力斗争。