SANAA, Yemen — The pro-American president of Yemen abruptly resigned Thursday along with his prime minister and cabinet, leaving his Houthi opponents the dominant force in a leaderless country that is a breeding ground for al-Qaida.
也门萨那——周四，亲美国的也门总统突然辞职，一同辞职的还有他的总理及内阁，于是胡塞(Houthi)反叛分子成为了也门的主导势力。当前，这个失去领导人的国家已经成为基地组织的渊薮。
The Houthis, who are allied with Iran, have been strongly critical of the United States, particularly opposing Yemen's cooperation with drone strikes against al-Qaida in Yemen.
胡塞武装分子与伊朗结盟，对美国怀有强烈的敌意，尤其反对也门政府与美国合作，用无人机袭击也门的基地组织。
At the same time, the Houthis, whose leaders are members of the Zaydi sect of Shiite Islam, are bitter opponents of al-Qaida, which is Sunn.
与此同时，胡塞武装分子也与基地组织势不两立。胡塞的领导人来自什叶派分支宰德派(Zaydi)，而基地组织属于逊尼派。
The resignation of President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi came immediately after an apparently unsuccessful meeting between government and Houthi representatives, brokered by the United Nations special envoy to Yemen, Jamal Benomar. It was intended to help carry out an agreement between the two sides that had been reached a day earlier.
阿卜杜·拉布·曼苏尔·哈迪(Abed Rabbu Mansour Hadi)提出辞职之前，政府和胡塞代表刚刚进行过一次似乎并不成功的会谈。这次会谈是在联合国驻也门特使贾迈勒·班诺马尔(Jamal Benomar)的斡旋下促成的，旨在执行双方一天前达成的一项协议。
Hadi's abrupt resignation caught U.S. officials off guard. Diplomats, military officials and counterterrorism analysts were scrambling to assess next steps, including any decisions to evacuate Americans at the U.S. Embassy and the impact on counterterrorism operations in Yemen.
哈迪突然辞职让美国官员措手不及。外交人员、军方官员和反恐分析人士都在匆忙评估接下来的行动，包括是否决定撤出美国大使馆里的美国人，以及此事对也门反恐行动的影响。
“We're not in a position — and I don't think any of you are either — to assess what it means at this point in time,” the State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, told reporters in Washington as news of Hadi's resignation was breaking.
“我们目前并不适合评估这意味着什么，我也不认为你们当中的任何人适合这么做，”哈迪辞职的消息曝出后，国务院发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)在华盛顿对记者说。
“Our top priority in Yemen remains the counterterrorism effort, where we've been targeting al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula for a number of years,” said Psaki, using another name for al-Qaida's Yemen affiliate. “That's ongoing.”
“我们在也门的首要任务依然是反恐，多年来，我们的目标一直是阿拉伯半岛基地组织(al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula)，”普萨基说。“行动还在继续。”她提到的是基地组织也门分支的另一个名称。
With Houthi fighters already in control of much of the capital and many areas of northern Yemen, it seemed likely that they would take at least de facto control of the government.
鉴于胡塞武装分子已经控制了首都，以及也门北部的大片区域，看上去他们至少可以夺取对政府事实上的控制权。
A further concern is the prospect that southern Yemen will try to break away from the north, possibly threatening another civil war. The Houthis are identified with the old Kingdom of Yemen and the Arab Republic based in the north.
进一步的担忧是，也门南部可能会试图脱离北部，这可能会引发另一场内战。胡塞认同过去先后统治也门北部的也门王国和也门阿拉伯共和国。