BEIJING — Chinese leaders pushed back at visiting Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Wednesday over what they assert is their right to control a wide swath of airspace in the bitterly contested East China Sea. But the Chinese also indicated they had not decided how aggressively to enforce their so-called air defense identification zone, which has ignited tensions with Japan.
北京——周三，中国领导人就防空区问题反驳了到访的美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)，中国声称他们有权控制引发激烈争执的东海的大片空域。但中方同时表明，他们还没有决定用多大的力度来管控他们所谓的防空识别区。防空识别区的设立已致使中日紧张局势升级。
Shuttling from one feuding neighbor to the other, Mr. Biden arrived here from Tokyo to urge China’s president, Xi Jinping, to show restraint in the restricted zone, which Mr. Biden said the United States regarded as illegitimate and a provocation.
穿梭访问这两个争吵不休的邻邦的拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)从东京来到北京，敦促中国国家主席习近平对防空区问题表现出克制。拜登表示，美国认为，设立该防空区是一种非法的挑衅行为。
After 5½ hours of meetings, in which Mr. Biden laid out the American case against China’s action and Mr. Xi made a forceful counterargument, senior administration officials said, “President Xi took on board what the vice president said. It’s up to China, and we’ll see how things will unfold in the coming days and weeks.”
在长达五个半小时的会谈中，拜登提出了美国反对中国设立防空区的理由，习近平则做出了有力的反驳。会谈结束后，政府高级官员表示，“习近平主席将副总统的建议纳入了考虑范围。这取决于中国，我们将在未来几天或几周看到事情如何发展。”
Mr. Xi’s response suggested China and Japan may be able to manage a standoff that had threatened to escalate dangerously, with China scrambling fighter jets to intercept Japanese airliners flying off the Chinese coast.
习近平的反应说明中国和日本或许有能力管控目前的僵局，鉴于中国可能动用战斗机拦截在中国沿海地区飞行的日本客机，这一僵局或会严重升级。
In brief public remarks midway through the meetings, Mr. Biden made no reference to the dispute, but said the relationship between the United States and China “ultimately has to be based on trust, and a positive notion about the motive of one another.”
拜登在会谈中途做了简短的公开讲话，他没有提及中日纠纷，只是说美中关系“最终要以信任及积极看待彼此动机为基础”。
Mr. Xi, who cultivated unusually personal ties to Mr. Biden when he was China’s vice president, sounded a more upbeat note about the broader relationship, though he conceded “regional hot-spot issues keep cropping up.”
习近平在担任国家副主席时就与拜登建立起了不同寻常的个人关系，他在谈到两国之间更大范围的关系时听起来更为乐观，但他也承认“地区性热点问题不断出现”。
He welcomed Mr. Biden as “my old friend” and said nothing directly about the air defense zone.
他对拜登表示欢迎，称拜登是“老朋友”，但没有直接提及防空区。
For Mr. Biden, however, China’s sudden action last month upended what was meant to be tour of Asia with a wide-ranging agenda. Instead, he has had to walk a fine line: defending an ally and rebuking a potential adversary, while preventing a spat over a clump of islands in the East China Sea from mushrooming into a wider conflict.
然而，对于拜登来说，中国上个月的突然之举搅乱了他这次本来议程广泛的亚洲之行。现在他需要小心翼翼地拿捏分寸：又要保护盟友、谴责潜在对手，又要防止东海岛屿争端迅速发展为更大范围的冲突。
A day earlier in Tokyo, Mr. Biden condemned China’s action as an effort to “unilaterally change the status quo” and said it had raised “the risk of accidents and miscalculation.” He promised to raise those objections with Mr. Xi in Beijing.
一天前在东京的时候，拜登指责中国这么做是试图“单方面改变东海现状”，而且增加了“出现意外和误判的风险”。当时他还承诺，到访北京时要向习近平提出这些抗议。
Mr. Biden stopped short of calling on China to rescind the zone, something it is highly unlikely to do, given the nationalist sentiments that have been animated by its standoff with Japan. The United States military has ignored the zone, dispatching B-52 bombers last week to fly through it.
拜登没有呼吁中国撤销该防空识别区，鉴于中日对峙在中国国内激起的民族主义情绪，撤销几乎是不可能的事情。但美国一直拒绝承认该防空区，并在上周派B-52轰炸机飞越了这一空域。
Shortly after Mr. Biden arrived, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said the new air defense identification zone was a fact of life that the world needed to accept.
拜登抵京后不久，中国外交部称新设的防空识别区是一个无法改变的现实，国际社会应该接受。
The spokesman at the ministry, Hong Lei, described it as a “zone of cooperation, and not confrontation.”
外交部发言人洪磊将其描述为一个“合作区，而不是对抗区。”
Since the zone was announced on Nov. 23, 55 airlines from 19 countries had provided China with flight information, he said. The Federal Aviation Administration has advised civilian aircraft to comply with China’s request when flying into the airspace.
洪磊表示，自11月23日宣布划设东海防空识别区以来，已有来自19个国家的55家航空公司向中国报备飞行计划。联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）已建议美国民用飞机在飞入该空域时遵从中国的要求。
The F.A.A.'s guidance, which officials said was routine, unsettled Japanese officials, who had instructed their carriers not to identify themselves to the Chinese. But Mr. Biden’s strong words, combined with his appeal to China’s top leader, appears to have smoothed over that flap.
官员们表示，FAA给出的只是例行建议，日本官员却仍然为此感到不安，此前，他们已经命令本国航空公司不要向中国进行通报。不过，拜登的激烈言辞，以及他对中国最高领导人的呼吁，似乎已经缓和了紧张局势。
“The vice president seems to have put them back on track,” said Michael J. Green, an adviser on Asia in the George W. Bush administration. “Beijing may not like, and he probably did not want his trip to be all about this, but he had to send a strong message of dissuasion.”
“副总统似乎平复了他们的情绪，”乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府的亚洲事务顾问迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说。“北京可能不喜欢，他或许也不希望自己的访问局限于这个问题，但他不得不发出一条表示劝诫的强力讯息。”
Mr. Xi’s sanguine words were calculated to send a different message, according to China experts.
中国专家表示，习近平的乐观言论旨在发出一个不同的讯号。
“A reason for Xi’s tone is a desire to make U.S. allies, especially Japan, uneasy about U.S. support by suggesting subliminally that the U.S.-China relationship is more important than other relationships, and the U.S. is keeping it sound despite China-Japan relations,” said Jeffrey A. Bader, a former China adviser to President Obama.
曾任奥巴马中国事务顾问的杰弗里·A·贝德(Jeffrey A. Bader)说，“习近平之所以采用这种口吻，原因之一是想暗示中美关系比其他关系更重要，尽管中日关系紧张，美国还是在努力维持良好的中美关系，以此让美国的盟友，特别是日本，对美国的支持感到不放心。”
Mr. Xi, repeating a phrase he used at a meeting with Mr. Obama in Southern California last June, said China wanted to build a “new model of major-country relations,” based on respecting each other’s core interests, collaborating on global problems, and devising ways to “appropriately handle sensitive issues and differences between us.”
习近平重复了他今年6月与奥巴马在南加州会晤时使用的一个短语，说中国希望建立一种“新型大国关系”，其基础是尊重彼此的核心利益，在国际问题上进行合作，同时设法“正确处理相互之间的敏感问题和差异”。
Mr. Biden, while embracing that formulation, said the relationship between China and the United States needed candor and trust. He said Mr. Xi had been candid in their previous meetings, and Mr. Biden’s aides said their exchanges were similarly uninhibited on Wednesday, ranging widely to include history and politics.
拜登对这一点表示赞同，同时表示中美关系需要坦诚和信任。他说，习近平在此前的会晤中一直表现得真诚而坦率，拜登的助手也说，他们周三的交谈同样顺利，涉及包括历史和政治在内的广泛话题。
Another major area of focus, American officials said, was North Korea, which has entered another period of uncertainty with reports that a powerful uncle of the country’s supreme leader, Kim Jong-un, had been purged from his positions. Officials declined to say whether China had intelligence on the ouster of the uncle, Jang Song Thaek.
美国官员表示，会晤的另一个主要关注点是朝鲜。报道称朝鲜最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)近日解除了他颇有权势的姑父的职务，朝鲜由此进入又一个不稳定的时期。官员们不愿透露，中国是否掌握了关于金正恩姑父张成泽(Jang Song Thaek)被免职一事的情报。
But they said Mr. Xi displayed renewed interest in pursuing a dual-track strategy of economic pressure and diplomacy to curb North Korea’s nuclear ambitions, prompted in part by the negotiations that recently led to an interim nuclear deal with Iran.
但他们表示，习近平再次表露意愿，打算用双管齐下的策略来遏制朝鲜的核野心，亦即从经济和外交方面同时施压。这样做部分是受了伊朗核谈判的启发，该谈判带来了近期与伊朗签订的过渡性核协议。
“They talked at some length about what the Iran example means for North Korea,” said a senior official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the contents of the meeting.
“他们花了些时间来讨论伊朗的例子对于朝鲜的意义，”一名高级官员说。他匿名谈论了此次会晤的内容。
Mr. Biden, officials said, also quizzed Mr. Xi about the recent Communist Party Congress, which ratified far-reaching economic reforms, among them the liberalization of interest rates. The vice president, they said, pressed Mr. Xi to implement some reforms as quickly as possible, given that his most ambitious ideas will take years to put in place.
官员称，拜登还向习近平询问了最近的中共三中全会的情况。此次会议确定要推行影响深远的经济改革，其中包括放松利率控制。他们说，副总统敦促习近平尽快实施部分改革措施，因为后者最具雄心的那些想法需要几年的时间才能实施到位。
Before his meeting with Mr. Xi, Mr. Biden dropped in on the consular section of the American Embassy to promote its efforts to streamline the issuing of visas, particularly to students seeking to study in the United States. While there, he delivered a pitch to a line of people, many of them teenagers, waiting to submit applications.
去人民大会堂会见习近平之前，拜登顺道走访了美国大使馆领事服务区，宣传了美国简化签证申请程序的努力，尤其是学生赴美学习的签证。他向排队等待递交签证申请的人们发表了讲话，其中很多都是青少年。
“We’re constantly looking for bright, intelligent, innovative young people to come to America and stay in America,” Mr. Biden said. “I hope you learn that innovation can only occur where you can breathe free, challenge the government, challenge religious leaders.”
“我们一直希望聪明、有才智和具有创新精神的年轻人来到美国，留在美国，”拜登说。“我希望你们认识到，创新只会发生在你们能自由呼吸、挑战政府、质疑宗教领袖的地方。”
Mr. Biden’s audience applauded respectfully, though his words were less relevant to them, since the embassy only processes visas for temporary stays in the United States, not immigrant visas.
拜登的听众报以礼貌的掌声，虽然他的话与他们关系并不太大，因为美国驻京大使馆只处理短期停留的签证，不签发移民签证。