BEIJING — The meeting between President Xi Jinping of China and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan lasted only 25 minutes, less than half the time usually given to formal encounters between the leaders of two nations. The names of the tiny islands in the East China Sea that are at the core of their frosty relationship did not pass their lips.
北京——中国国家主席习近平与日本首相安倍晋三的会晤只持续了25分钟，还不到国家元首正式会谈一般时长的一半。关于东海那几座造成了中日核心矛盾的小岛，双方只字未提。
Mr. Abe, who appears to have done most of the talking during the limited time given, asked for the early installation of a hotline that could help defuse possible clashes between Chinese and Japanese vessels in waters around the islands, said Kuni Sato, the press secretary for the Japanese Foreign Ministry.
据日本外务省新闻官佐藤地(Kuni Sato)说，有限的会谈时间中，安倍的讲话较多。他提出尽早建立热线，以便避免争议海域中日船只发生摩擦。
In general, Ms. Sato said, Mr. Abe told Mr. Xi that China and Japan should explore a relationship that was based on strong economic cooperation, better relations in the East China Sea and stability in East Asia.
佐藤地说，安倍向习近平表示，中日应该探索建立在有力的经济合作、东海上的关系改善和东亚稳定的基础上。
Mr. Abe talked about the need to curb Ebola, and about cooperation on dealing with North Korea. He also squeezed in, as an example of cultural exchange, a mention of his attendance last month at a Chinese ballet company’s performance in Tokyo, according to Ms. Sato.
安倍还谈到遏制埃博拉的必要性和合作应对朝鲜。佐藤地还说，安倍还不忘提及上个月在东京观看了一场中国芭蕾舞表演，作为两国文化交流的例子。
The leaders of China and Japan met and shook hands here Monday in a long-awaited and carefully crafted session designed as an important step in improving the two-and-a-half-year standoff between the two countries.
本周一，中国和日本领导人在北京举行了会谈并握了手。这个备受期待、精心筹备的会谈，是改善两国之间长达两年半的对峙关系的重要一步。
The meeting between President Xi Jinping and Prime Minster Shinzo Abe at the Great Hall of the People was not intended to deliver any substantive progress on territorial and historical issues that have brought the two richest countries in Asia close to conflict and inflamed nationalist sentiments, according to officials from both sides.
双方官员均表示，习近平主席与日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在人民大会堂举行会谈，目的不是在领土和历史问题上取得任何实质性进展。在亚洲最富有的这两个国家，领土和历史问题引发了高涨的民族主义情绪，几乎到了爆发冲突的地步。
“It was the first step for improving ties by returning to mutually beneficial relations based on common strategic interests,” Mr. Abe said after the meeting. Japanese officials said the two leaders met for about 30 minutes.
安倍晋三在会后说：“我认为这是中日两国返回到战略互惠关系原点，中日关系走向改善的第一步。”日本官员表示，两位领导人的会谈持续了大约30分钟。
In an account of the meeting, People’s Daily, the official state-run newspaper, said Mr. Xi told the Japanese prime minister that it was “obvious” why the relationship had suffered and urged Japan to abide by the spirit of a four-point accord released Friday.
中国官方报纸《人民日报》在报道此次会晤时说，习近平告诉日本首相，两国关系出现严重困难的原因是“清楚的”，他敦促日本遵守上周五发表的四点原则共识。
The two men looked subdued and almost deliberately expressionless at the start of their encounter. Their handshake lacked the usual bonhomie between two leaders posing for photographers.
两人看上去兴致不高，刚见面时几乎故意表现得面无表情。他们的握手缺乏两位领导人面对摄影师时通常会有的友好气氛。
Mr. Xi had refused to consider a face-to-face meeting since becoming president in March 2013, but Mr. Abe, who was elected at the end of 2012, publicly asked in the past few months for the session. Japanese diplomats were dispatched to Beijing to arrange the encounter and to complete the accord released Friday, which is intended as a basis for better relations.
自2013年3月成为中国国家主席以来，习近平曾拒绝考虑与日本领导人进行面对面会谈。安倍晋三于2012年年底赢得大选，在过去几个月中，他公开要求进行这次会谈。日本派遣了外交官前往北京安排会谈事宜，并在上周五发表四点原则共识；该协议旨在奠定改善中日关系的基石。
The Chinese, as hosts of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum that opened Monday, realized they could not snub Mr. Abe during his presence at the summit meeting, and agreed to the meeting, Chinese officials said. President Obama arrived in Beijing for the forum Monday morning.
亚太经济合作组织(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation，简称APEC)论坛于周一开幕，中国作为主办国，意识到自己不能在安倍晋三出席峰会期间冷落他，于是同意举行这次会谈，中国官员说。本周一早上，奥巴马抵达北京，出席该论坛。
While there was no practical outcome of the meeting, it gave added weight to a four-point accord announced Friday, Japanese and Chinese analysts said.
日本和中国的分析师表示，虽然这次会谈没有取得实质成果，但却提升了上周五发表的四点原则共识协议的重要性。
That accord said that both sides recognized they had different positions on the tense situation around the waters of the disputed islands in the East China Sea, known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan. It called for “dialogue and consultation” to “prevent the deterioration of the situation.” The two sides would strive to establish a crisis-management mechanism, the accord said.
共识中称，双方承认，在围绕东海争议岛屿所在海域引发的紧张局势中，双方存在不同主张，中国称争议岛屿为钓鱼岛，日本称为尖阁诸岛。该协议呼吁“通过对话磋商防止局势恶化”。协议称，双方将建立危机管控机制。
That Mr. Xi and Mr. Abe met gives a “kick off” to what could be an exceedingly long process of discussions over the future of the uninhabited islands, and the disagreements over Japan’s repentance for atrocities in China during World War II, said Yang Xiyu, a senior fellow at the China Institute of International Studies and a former Chinese diplomat.
中国国际问题研究院高级研究员、前中国外交官杨希雨表示，习近平与安倍晋三的会面，“开启”了一个可能极其漫长的讨论进程，议题将涉及这些无人岛屿的未来，以及有关日本对二战期间在华暴行的悔悟态度的争论。
“The gaps between the two sides are too big to handle let alone narrow,” in such a meeting between the two leaders, Mr. Yang said.
杨希雨说，“双方的分歧非常大，难以解决”，在两位领导人的这样一场会面中也无法“缩小分歧”。
Talks about ownership of the islands would not start for a very long time, said Yoshihide Soeya, professor of political science at Keio University in Tokyo.
东京庆应义塾大学(Keio University)政治学教授添谷芳秀(Yoshihide Soeya)表示，两国在未来很长时间内都不会就争议岛屿的归属权开展讨论。
Since taking control of the islands from the United States in 1972, Japan has consistently refused to concede that there is any dispute over sovereignty. China says the islands were taken from them by Japan at the end of the 19th century.
自1972年从美国手中接管该争议岛屿以来，日本始终拒绝承认这些岛屿的主权存在争议。中国称，日本在19世纪末从中国手中夺走了这些岛屿。
“Serious talks about the sovereignty issue concerning the islands will not happen for many years to come,” Mr. Soeya said. The four-point accord had effectively “sidelined” the issue, he said.
添谷芳秀说，“双方在未来很多年里，都不会就争议岛屿的主权问题，举行严肃的会谈。”他表示，四点共识实际上“淡化”了这个问题。
As officials and analysts from each side pored over the careful wording of the accord, both sides promoted their own interpretations, scoring points for their own advantage.
两国官员及分析人士都在仔细研读这份措辞严谨的共识协议，双方都在宣扬自己的解读，从而让自己占上风。
“Each side made the same amount of concessions,” said Kazuhiko Togo, the director of the Institute for World Affairs at Kyoto Sangyo University. “It prepared the gate for the two sides to walk through.”
“双方做出了同等程度的让步，”京都产业大学(Kyoto Sangyo University)世界问题研究所(Institute for World Affairs)所长东乡和彦(Kazuhiko Togo)说。“这为双方都准备了通行大门。”
Mr. Togo said it would be impossible for Mr. Abe to announce publicly that he would not visit the Yasukuni Shrine, the large shrine in central Tokyo that honor’s the nation’s war dead, including convicted war criminals. Such a pledge would antagonize his conservative political base.
东乡和彦表示，安倍晋三不可能公开宣称他不会再参拜靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)，这个位于东京市中心的神社，供奉着该国在战争中殒命的亡灵，其中包括战犯。这样的承诺会激怒他的保守派政治根基。
“Abe cannot say he will not go, but it doesn’t mean he will go,” Mr. Togo said.
东乡和彦表示，“安倍晋三不能说自己不会参拜，但这并不意味着他会去。”
Some Japanese analysts said they believed Mr. Abe’s visit to the shrine last December was sufficient to satisfy his domestic constituency, allowing the prime minister to focus on developing a modicum of a working relationship with China.
一些日本分析人士表示，他们认为安倍晋三去年12月参拜神社的动作足以让国内的选民满意，使他可以集中精力与中国建立基本的工作关系。