SHANGHAI — President Xi Jinping is presiding over a new working group on cybersecurity and information security, China announced on Thursday.
上海——中国于周四宣布，国家主席习近平主持着一个负责网络安全和信息安全的新设工作小组。
The government said Mr. Xi and two other senior leaders, Prime Minister Li Keqiang and Liu Yunshan, a member of the Politburo Standing Committee, would help draft national strategies and develop major policies in a field that might include protecting national secrets and developing cyberdefenses, among other goals.
中国政府称，习近平和其他两位高级领导人，即李克强总理和政治局常委刘云山将协助起草该领域的全国性战略，制定重大政策，其目标可能包括保护国家机密和发展网络防御。
“Efforts should be made to build our country into a cyberpower,” Mr. Xi said in a statement released after the first meeting of the group on Thursday, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.
据官方新闻机构新华社报道称，该小组于周四举行了第一次会议，习近平在会后的声明中称：“努力把我国建设成为网络强国。”
The announcement comes at a time when Mr. Xi is solidifying power, mounting a bold crackdown on corruption at the top of the Communist Party and pushing through reforms aimed at strengthening and restructuring the country’s economy.
宣布这一消息时，习近平正在巩固权力，发动对党内高层腐败的大力打击，同时推动旨在加强和重组中国经济的改革。
In his first year in office, Mr. Xi, 60, seems determined to signal that he is firmly in control, amassing powers that some analysts say harken back to Deng Xiaoping’s reign as the country’s supreme leader.
在执政的第一年，60岁的习近平似乎决意表明自己牢牢掌控着局面，将多项权力集于自己一身。一些分析人士称，他揽到的权力让人想起了邓小平以国家最高领导人身份统治中国的时代。
Late last year, Mr. Xi was named to head a leading working group on overall reform and a state security committee that some experts say was inspired by the National Security Council, which advises American presidents. He has also presided over a government that tightened control over the news media and Internet microblogs.
去年年底，习近平被任命为一个负责全面改革的领导小组的组长，以及一个负责国家安全的委员会的负责人。一些专家称，该委员会是效仿为美国总统充当顾问的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)。此外，习近平领导的政府还加强了对新闻媒体和互联网微博的控制。
The new leading group of cybersecurity and “informatization” could be aimed at grappling with one of the thornier issues that emerged in Mr. Xi’s first year in office: disputes with the United States over cyberattacks and debates over national security leaks.
新成立的网络安全和“信息化”领导小组可能旨在应对习近平执政第一年出现的一个较为棘手的问题：网络袭击引发的中美争端和围绕国家安全泄密事件产生的争论。
The issue was one of the most sensitive that came up in June when Mr. Xi joined President Obama for a summit meeting at the Sunnylands estate in Rancho Mirage, Calif. Analysts say the talks between the two powers have grown more complicated since revelations that the National Security Agency has engaged in widespread spying around the world, even against American allies.
去年6月，习近平和奥巴马总统在加州兰乔米拉的“阳光之乡”(Sunnylands)举行了峰会，此事成为了峰会期间最敏感的议题之一。分析人士说，自从相关披露显示国家安全局(National Security Agency)在世界范围内进行了大规模的间谍活动，监听对象甚至包括美国盟友以来，这两个大国间的对话已变得愈加复杂。
Experts say the issue has major implications for large corporations in the United States and China, which could find themselves blocked from doing business in the other country in areas like telecommunications or Internet security.
专家说，此事将对美国和中国的大型企业产生重大影响，如果要在对方国家的通讯及网络安全等领域做生意，这些企业可能会面临阻碍。
China now has the world’s second-largest economy, after the United States, and the largest number of Internet users, more than 600 million. But Chinese authorities complain that the country’s science and technology capabilities lag far behind more developed countries.
中国已成为仅次于美国的世界第二大经济体，拥有世界上规模最大的网络用户群，其人数超过了6亿人。但是，中国官方抱怨称，中国的科技能力远远不如发达国家。
The government announcement Thursday did not offer details about what cybersecurity and informatization would cover, but the government made clear that it was determined to strengthen its capabilities.
中国政府周四的声明并没有详细说明网络安全和信息化所包含的内容，但中国政府已明确表示，它决意加强自己的能力。
“No Internet safety means no national security,” Mr. Xi said Thursday. “No informatization means no modernization.”
“没有网络安全就没有国家安全，”习近平周四说，“没有信息化就没有现代化。”