HONG KONG — President Xi Jinping of China is set to make a state visit to the United States later this year, his first since becoming the top leader of Asia’s biggest economy.
香港——中国国家主席习近平预计将在今年晚些时候对美国进行国事访问，这是自从他成为亚洲最大经济体的最高领导人以来，第一次对美国进行国事访问。
No date has been set yet for the visit, Cui Tiankai, China’s ambassador to the United States, told reporters over the weekend, according to the official China Daily newspaper.
据官媒《中国日报》报道，中国驻美国大使崔天凯周末对记者说，具体访问日期尚未确定。
Mr. Cui’s announcement came after Susan E. Rice, President Obama’s national security adviser, extended an invitation on Friday to Mr. Xi and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to come to Washington for a state visit. Ms. Rice also invited President Park Geun-hye of South Korea and President Joko Widodo of Indonesia.
崔天凯的宣布是在美国发出邀请之后，奥巴马总统的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)上周五分别向习近平和日本首相安倍晋三发出前来华盛顿进行国事访问的邀请。赖斯还邀请了韩国总统朴槿惠及印度尼西亚总统佐科·维多多。
Summit meetings between the leaders of the United States and China, the world’s two biggest economies, are always major events, and there will be pressure on both sides to deliver something from this one. A meeting between Mr. Xi and Mr. Obama in Beijing in November yielded a major agreement on controlling greenhouse gases.
美国和中国是世界上两个最大的经济体，两国领导人的首脑会议一直是件大事，他们未来会晤时能做出什么承诺，对双方来说都会有压力。习近平与奥巴马去年11月在北京见面时达成了控制温室气体的重要协议。
There are many contentious issues between the two nations, including concerns about cybersecurity and tensions between China and Japan and the Philippines, which are American allies, over territorial claims in the East and South China Seas.
两国之间存在许多有争议的问题，包括网络安全问题，以及对中国与美国的盟国日本和菲律宾在东海和南海的领土主权问题上的紧张关系的担忧。
Patrick Ventrell, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said the White House was still in the process of determining mutually convenient times for the visits by Mr. Xi and Mr. Abe, which officials “very much look forward to hosting.”
美国国家安全委员会发言人帕特里克·文特雷尔(Patrick Ventrell)表示，白宫仍在就习近平和安倍晋三的来访确定适合双方的时间，并说美国官员“非常期待能接待(来访者)”。
The announcement of their visits and separate ones by the presidents of South Korea and Indonesia later this year “underscore our enduring and ongoing commitment to our Asia-Pacific rebalance strategy,” Mr. Ventrell said. “We will use these visits to expand our economic, diplomatic and defense cooperation with all these countries.”
关于中日领导人的访美之行、以及今年晚些时候韩国和印度尼西亚总统的单独来访的通告“凸显了我们长期并持续致力于我们的亚太再平衡战略，”文特雷尔说。“我们将利用这些访问扩大我们与所有这些国家的经济、外交和防务合作。”
The Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a faxed reply to a question about the preparations that “China and the U.S. have been maintaining close communication regarding high-level exchanges between the two countries.”
中国外交部在用传真答复一个有关筹备工作的问题时说，“中国和美国一直在就两国之间的高层交往保持着密切的沟通。”
Mr. Cui, speaking to the Chinese news media, likened ties between the United States and China to the lead characters in a popular Chinese cartoon. He expressed hope that in the coming Chinese year of the goat, bilateral ties would be more like the “gentle goat” who is the main character, and less like the mischievous wolf who plots to eat the goats.
崔天凯在对中国新闻媒体的讲话中，把中美关系比作一部深受欢迎的中国动画片中的角色。他表示在即将到来的中国羊年里，两国关系会更像动画片的主角“喜羊羊”，而不是想吃掉羊的坏蛋“灰太狼”。