BEIJING — At a ceremony imbued with quiet triumph at the Great Hall of the People, China’s president, Xi Jinping, hosted 56 member countries on Monday for the founding of a Chinese-led infrastructure bank for Asia, including major American allies from Asia and Europe that Washington had counseled not to join the bank.
北京——在人民大会堂举行的仪式充满平静的胜利气氛，周一为庆祝中国主导的亚洲基础设施银行的成立，中国国家主席习近平款待了56个成员国，其中包括美国在亚洲的重要盟友，和曾被美国力劝不要加入的欧洲盟友。
Conspicuously absent from the gathering were the United States and Japan, the leaders of the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, the institutions that were created after World War II to build a Western-designed global financial architecture. Washington fears those institutions will be undermined by the new body.
明显从集体中缺席的是世界银行(World Bank)的领导者美国和亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)的领导者日本，二者都是二战以后为了建立西方设计的全球金融体系而设立的组织。华盛顿担心这些组织会被这一后来者削弱。
Australia, one of the allies that the Obama administration had vigorously lobbied to stay away from the bank — called the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, or A.I.I.B. — was the first country to sign the articles of agreement.
澳大利亚，这个曾被奥巴马政府竭力游说不要参与亚洲基础设施投资银行(Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank)的盟友，是第一个签署协定的国家。
The country’s powerful treasurer, Joe Hockey, bearing a $700 million contribution that will make Australia the fifth-largest shareholder of the bank, said before the ceremony that the bank offered “great opportunities” for Australia to work with China, its biggest trading partner. Britain, which also joined in defiance of Washington’s wishes, sent Jim O’Neill, commercial secretary to the Treasury.
该国强势的财政部长乔·霍基(Joe Hockey)，承担了7亿美元的出资，将使澳大利亚成为银行的第五大股东。典礼之前，霍基说亚投行将为澳大利亚与中国，其最大的贸易伙伴的合作提供“绝佳的机会”。同样违抗华盛顿的想法而加入的英国，派来了财政部商务大臣吉姆·奥尼尔(Jim O’Neill)。
Seven countries present at the ceremony that have agreed to become members of the bank, including the Philippines, one of China’s most ardent antagonists in Asia, did not sign the articles on Monday, pending final approvals at home.
有七个出席仪式的国家，其中包括中国在亚洲最狂热的对手菲律宾，虽然同意成为亚投行的成员国，因为仍需国内的最终批准而没有在周一签署协定。
The new bank is the first large international body established by China that, like the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, meets the standards of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, legal experts said, and as such could be seen as an effort by China to shoulder more responsibility in underdeveloped parts of Asia, even as some neighbors fear its growing military and territorial claims.
法律专家称，这一新型银行是中国主导建立的第一个国际实体，和世界银行和亚洲开发银行一样遵循《维也纳条约法公约》(Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties)的标准。这也被视为中国试图在亚洲欠发达地区肩负起更多责任的努力，尽管一些邻国忧虑中国日益强硬的军力和领土主张。
In a video of the Monday event by Phoenix Television, Mr. Xi stressed the “open and inclusive spirit of unity and cooperation,” wording that seemed to reflect his satisfaction at garnering many more members, and more powerful ones, than China had originally envisioned.
在凤凰卫视有关周一事件的视频中，习近平强调了“团结合作、开放包容的精神”，而这似乎反映了他对于聚集了比中国原本预见的更多、更强大的成员的满意。
Some of the early sour feelings expressed by competitors of the new institution had dissipated by Monday. The president of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, said in a statement that he welcomed the newcomer, and the Asian Development Bank offered to join hands to do business.
一些亚投行的竞争对手此前流露出的酸楚在此时已经烟消云散。世界银行行长金墉(Jim Yong Kim)在一份声明中称，他欢迎这位后来者，而亚洲开发银行也表示愿意展开合作。
“The Asian Development Bank would be pleased to cooperate with A.I.I.B. in cofinancing projects that meet our common objectives and looks forward to the opportunity to do so,” said Christopher H. Stephens, general counsel of the Asian Development Bank in Manila. His institution is already looking at possible projects for collaboration, he said.
“亚洲开发银行将很高兴与亚投行在为了实现共同目标的项目融资方面展开合作，并很期待这样的机会，”总部位于马尼拉的亚洲开发银行法律总顾问克里斯托弗·H·斯蒂芬斯 (Christopher H. Stephens)说。他还表示他的组织已经开始寻找可能可以合作的项目。
Similarly, the president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Suma Chakrabarti, said in Beijing on Saturday that given the overlapping membership of his bank and the new bank, there was a “huge” potential to jointly “make a difference on the ground.”
同样，欧洲复兴开发银行(European Bank for Reconstruction and Development)行长苏马∙查克拉巴蒂(Suma Chakrabarti)周六在北京称，鉴于欧洲复兴开发银行和亚投行拥有一定数量的共同成员，二者合作取得实质性进展的潜力非常巨大。
China will be the biggest shareholder in the bank, which aims to have $100 billion in capitalization. Beijing will contribute $29.8 billion, with India a distant second at $8.4 billion, the articles of agreement show. In all, the members range from Western Europe, to Russia, to the Middle East — including Iran and Israel — to the Asia-Pacific region.
中国的目标是募集1000亿美元法定股本，并成为银行最大的股东。协定显示，北京将贡献298亿美元，第二名印度差距甚远，将出资84亿美元。总体上，成员国将包括西欧国家，俄罗斯，中东——包括伊朗和以色列，和亚太各国。
As the biggest investor, and with the voting structure based on several factors, including gross domestic product, China will have 26.06 percent of the votes, and those votes could be diluted as new members join, according to a statement by the Finance Ministry on Monday. On certain matters that China most cares about, including leadership, structure, membership and capital increases, China will be able to exercise its will, according to people close to the bank who were not authorized to speak publicly.
作为最大的投资者，以及基于包括国民生产总值在内的几个特定因素的投票结构，中国将拥有26.06%的投票权，而根据中国财政部周一的声明，这一比例在未来随着新成员的加入可能被稀释。据与银行关系密切但未被授权公开发言的人士透露，在中国最为关心的几个因素上，包括领导权、结构、成员国资格和增加资本，中国将有能力根据自己的意愿操作。
China, for example, has insisted that the bank be led by a Chinese official, and almost certainly, these people say, the first president will be Jin Liqun, the head of the interim secretariat of the bank and a former deputy finance minister.
比如，中国坚持银行必须由中国官员领导，这些人士称，几乎可以确定的是，第一位行长人选将会是亚投行多边临时秘书处秘书长和前财政部副部长金立群。
“The United States or its allies can’t complain that the Chinese want to have a Chinese as head of the bank,” said David Dollar, a former United States Treasury official, now at the Brookings Institution, who has offered advice to the new body.
“美国和其盟友无法抱怨中国想要中国人担任亚投行的领导人，”前美国财政部官员，现任职于布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)并为亚投行建言献策的杜大伟(David Dollar)称。
“The United States always has an American as head of the World Bank, the Europeans always get the head of the I.M.F., and the Japanese head the A.D.B.,” Mr. Dollar said, referring to the International Monetary Fund.
“美国一直任命美国人领导世界银行，欧洲人一直领导国际货币基金组织，日本人一直领导亚洲开发银行，”杜大伟说。
Mr. Jin is known to have strong opinions about the shortcomings of the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank from stints as China’s representative at the two institutions.
众所周知，金立群作为中国驻世界银行和亚洲开发银行的代表，对于两个组织由于资金限制带来的弊端意见强烈。
Mr. Jin told a conference of international economists in Beijing on Saturday that the new bank would learn from the mistakes of the past as it tackled the problems of how to meet the estimated $8 trillion in infrastructure needs in the Asian region by 2020.
周六，金立群在北京对一个国际经济学家会议说，亚投行解决了在2020年前满足亚洲地区8万亿美元的基础设施资金需求的问题，必将吸取过去的教训。
“This will not be a simple cloning of existing institutions,” he said. “We will learn a lot from them.”
金立群称，“亚投行......不是简单的克隆现有的机构。亚投行将会努力学习现有机构成功的经验，同时也将吸取这些机构的教训。”
The bank’s regulations lay out a set of environmental criteria for projects, Mr. Jin said, and the bank “will explore a new development model that tries to address the conflict between improving people’s livelihood and environmental protection.” The bank’s headquarters, to be built in the financial district in Beijing on land donated by the municipal government, will be eco-friendly, he said.
亚投行的政策为其项目设立了一系列环境标准，金立群称，亚投行将“努力探索新的发展模式，来解决民生的需要和环境保护之间的矛盾。”将坐落在北京金融区一块由市政府捐献的土地上的亚投行总部，将是生态环境友好型的，金立群称。
Some of the Obama administration’s public critiques have centered on whether the new bank will repeat China’s frequent disregard for environmental standards and the displacement of villagers in its projects in Asia, notably in Myanmar.
奥巴马政府的部分公开批评集中在亚投行是否会重复中国在其位于亚洲的项目中经常忽视环境标准和使村民流离失所等问题，著名的例子就是缅甸。
With a transparency unusual in China, the Finance Ministry posted the articles of agreement on its website on Monday.
财政部于周一在其网站上发布了协定文本，表露出中国非同寻常的透明度。
In a nod to European countries that had expressed concerns similar to Washington’s at a planning meeting in Singapore in May, the articles say that the bank will ensure that it addresses the environmental and social impact of its projects and that it will foster “sustainable” development.
欧洲国家在5月于新加坡召开的筹划会议上表达了和华盛顿类似的关切，出于对此议题的认可，协定称将确保妥善处理项目造成的环境和社会影响，并促进可持续发展。
Some countries said they would strive to ensure that the bank lived up to Mr. Jin’s promises. “We will work very actively to see that A.I.I.B. is oriented toward poverty alleviation and that environment and climate considerations are included in every project,” said the Danish ambassador to China, Friis Arne Petersen.
一些国家称他们将努力确保亚投行将实现金立群的承诺。“我们将积极工作，以看到亚投行以扶贫为导向，环境和气候考量将被包含在每一个项目中，”丹麦驻中国大使裴德盛(Friis Arne Petersen)说。
The Chinese have also insisted that the new bank will forgo the World Bank and Asian Development Bank tradition of a resident board — officials from member countries who function above day-to-day management and who critics say provide little efficient oversight but lots of bureaucracy.
中国还坚持亚投行将放弃常设委员会，这一世界银行和亚洲开发银行的传统。常设委员会由来自各成员国的官员们组成，从事超越组织日常管理的工作，批评者说这几乎没有提供高效的监督却滋生了官僚主义。
Instead, the articles of agreement say a board of 12 directors, with nine from Asia and three from outside the region, will meet “periodically through the year” to provide supervision of the operations and management.
协定称，一个由12位董事组成的委员会，将在一年内周期性地会晤，以提供对于运营和管理的监督。其中9人来自亚洲国家，3人来自区域外。
“There won’t be as much oversight because the directors are not there all the time,” said Ko-Yung Tung, a former general counsel of the World Bank. “For the skeptics, that might mean China wants to run the show without too much interference. I take the Chinese at their word that they don’t want too much bureaucracy.”
“这里将不会有太多的监督，因为董事并不是所有的时间都在，”前世界银行总顾问高永东(Ko-Yung Tung)称，“对于怀疑论者来说，这可能意味着中国想不受干扰地扮演重要角色。我引用中国人自己的话说，他们不想要太多的官僚主义。”
Even though the United States was not at the ceremony on Monday, the door remains open to it, said Xu Hongcai, a Chinese economist who worked on the plans for the new bank since before Mr. Xi officially announced its creation in late 2013.
尽管美国并没有出现在周一的签字仪式上，但大门仍然是敞开的，经济学家徐洪才说。在习近平2013年底提出这一倡议前，徐洪才就参与了亚投行的相关筹划工作。