Even when President Xi Jinping of China urges his country’s scientists to blaze a trail into the future, he dwells on the defeats and humiliations of the past.
中国国家主席习近平即使在呼吁中国科学家要勇往直前走向未来时，也念念不忘过去的失败和屈辱。
On Monday, Mr. Xi delivered his biggest speech on science and technology since becoming national leader and gave fresh urgency to demands that China master and control the new technologies that, he said, will decide the global economic and political winners and losers of coming decades. And he pointed to China’s past as a victim of invasion and subjugation as a lesson in the price of scientific backwardness.
周一，习近平做了其就任国家主席以来有关科学技术的最重要讲话，给中国需要掌握和控制新技术的要求赋予新的紧迫感，他说，科技实力将在未来几十年中决定各国在全球经济和政治上的前途命运。他还指出，中国在近代史上落后挨打的根子之一就是科技落后。
“Only if core technologies are in our own hands can we truly hold the initiative in competition and development,” Mr. Xi said at a meeting of senior Chinese scientists and engineers, according to an official transcript in the People’s Daily newspaper on Tuesday. “Only then can we fundamentally ensure our national economic security, defense security and other aspects of security. We cannot always dress up other people’s yesterdays as our own tomorrows.”
“只有把核心技术掌握在自己手中，才能真正掌握竞争和发展的主动权，才能从根本上保障国家经济安全、国防安全和其他安全。不能总是用别人的昨天来装扮自己的明天，”据《人民日报》周二发表的官方讲话稿，习近平在中国科学院和工程院院士大会上这样说。
The Chinese Communist Party’s policy of actively encouraging indigenous innovation goes back almost 20 years to Jiang Zemin, who was president then. And Deng Xiaoping, the party patriarch who championed economic rejuvenation from the late 1970s, stressed science and technology in his reforms.
中国共产党积极鼓励自主创新的政策可以追溯至近20年前江泽民担任国家主席的时期。党的元老邓小平在1970年代提出重振经济时，也在改革中强调了科学技术的重要性。
Together with calling for faster indigenous innovation in robotics, artificial intelligence and other fields of advancement, Mr. Xi gave members of the national academies of scientists and engineers a lecture on how China succumbed to Western and Japanese domination in the 19th and 20th centuries because it failed to turn scientific knowledge into usable technology.
除了呼吁要在机器人、人工智能及其他先进领域加快自主创新步伐之外，习近平还给科学院和工程院的院士们上了一课，他讲述了中国在19世纪和20世纪如何遭受西方和日本的欺辱，那都是因为没有把科学知识转化为有用的技术。
The great Qing dynasty emperor Kangxi, who ruled from 1661 to 1722, invited Jesuit missionaries to lecture on astronomy, mathematics and other subjects. But he and his successors failed to sustain that interest and turn scientific curiosity into practical applications, said Mr. Xi.
大清朝的康熙皇帝在其1661年至1722年统治时期，曾邀请耶稣会传教士给他讲授天文、数学和其他学科。习近平说，但是，康熙和他的继任者没有能保持这一兴趣，也没有把对科学的好奇转化为实际应用。
“Science and technology are the foundation of national strength and prosperity, and innovation is the soul of national advancement,” he said. “In a certain sense, scientific and technological strength determines changes in the world balance of political and economic power, and determines the fate of every nation.”
“科技是国家强盛之基，创新是民族进步之魂，”他说，“从某种意义上说，科技实力决定着世界政治经济力量对比的变化，也决定着各国各民族的前途命运。”
China has shown that it is willing to spend to rise up the scientific ranks. In 2012, China’s spending on research and development reached 1 trillion renminbi, about $160 billion, or almost 2 percent of gross domestic product, Finance Minister Lou Jiwei said last year. A report from the Battelle Memorial Institute and R&D Magazine estimated that “China’s total funding of R&D is expected to surpass that of the U.S. by about 2022.”
中国已经展示出其决心，为了提高科学水平愿意花大钱。财政部部长楼继伟去年曾表示，2012年中国全社会的研发支出已达到1万亿元人民币，几乎相当于国内生产总值的2%。一份来自巴特尔纪念研究所(Battelle Memorial Institute)和R&D杂志(R&D Magazine)的报告预计，“到2022年前后，中国用于研发的总经费预计将超过美国。”
Mr. Xi said that his focus on China possessing its own core technologies did not exclude international cooperation. But, he said, China would demand a bigger say in the rules and standards that govern global science and technology innovation.
习近平说，他强调中国掌握属于自己的核心技术，并不是排斥国际合作。但是，他说，中国需要在制定全球科技创新的规定和标准方面有更大的发言权。
“On the traditional competition field of international development, the rules were set by other people,” he said. “To seize the great opportunities in the new scientific-technological revolution and industrial transformation, we must enter early on while the new competition field is being built, and even dominate some of the competition field construction, so we become a major designer of the new rules of competition and a leader on the new field.”
“在传统国际发展赛场上，规则别人都制定好了，”他说，“抓住新一轮科技革命和产业变革的重大机遇，就是要在新赛场建设之初就加入其中，甚至主导一些赛场建设，从而使我们成为新的竞赛规则的重要制定者、新的竞赛场地的重要主导者。”