HONG KONG — President Xi Jinping of China called for more measures to protect stock market investors after meeting with financial regulators, the state news media said on Tuesday, signaling top-level support for a national campaign to crack down on market manipulation and to increase transparency.
香港——据中国官方新闻媒体周二报道，国家主席习近平在他主持召开的财经领导小组会议上，呼吁采取更多的措施保护股票投资者，这是最高层发出的支持打击股市操纵、增加透明度的全国运动的信号。 
Xu Xiang, the billionaire owner of a Chinese investment firm who is sometimes compared to Carl Icahn, was detained on suspicion of insider trading on Nov. 1 and has been held incommunicado. In the days since, Chinese government officials appear to have broadened their investigation, amid the adoption of new regulatory measures.
一家中国投资公司的亿万富翁老板徐翔，因涉嫌内幕交易已于11月1日被拘留，并被单独囚禁，徐翔有时被人比作卡尔·伊坎(Carl Icahn)。那以后，中国政府官员似乎扩大了他们的调查范围，也采取了新的监管措施。
China Securities Journal, a semiofficial Chinese publication, said on Tuesday that public security agencies had frozen accounts totaling 4.3 billion renminbi, or about $675 million, that belong to a woman whom the Chinese news media have identified as Mr. Xu’s mother.
中国一份半官方刊物《中国证券报》周二表示，公安机关已冻结了一个总额高达43亿元人民币的帐户，该账户属于被中国新闻媒体确认为徐翔母亲的女人。
Separately, regulators raided several Chinese mutual fund companies late on Monday, carting off the laptops of managers and analysts for further study, said Hao Hong, chief strategist at Bank of Communications International.
另外，监管部门还在周一晚间突击搜查了多家中国基金公司，把经理和分析师们的便携电脑用车拉走，以便进一步研究，交银国际(Bank of Communications International)首席策略师洪浩说。
The detention of Mr. Xu, who was detained by the police in an operation that involved closing a 22-mile bridge, “was China firing a warning shot across the market,” Mr. Hong said.
洪浩说，徐翔被警方拘留“是政府对股票市场鸣枪示警”，警方拘留徐翔的行动曾让一座35公里的大桥关闭。
Calls to Mr. Xu’s company, the Shanghai-based Zexi Investment, were not answered after working hours on Tuesday. The company’s website offered no information about Mr. Xu.
徐翔的公司是总部位于上海的泽熙投资，没有人回答周二下班后打给公司的电话。公司的网站上也没有提供任何关于徐翔的信息。
The Chinese leader presided over a meeting on Monday of the Communist Party’s leading group on financial issues. State news media said that he had been joined by three of the six other members of the standing committee of the Politburo, the most powerful body in China’s system.
国家主席习近平周二主持召开党内负责领导财经的小组会议。官方新闻媒体表示，六名政治局常委中有三人参加了这次会议，政治局常务委员会是中国政治体制的最高权力机构。
Summarizing Mr. Xi’s speech, the state news media said that the president had called for stock markets to be better regulated so that investors are treated fairly. China’s stock markets have long had a reputation for chronic insider trading and other abuses.
国家新闻媒体总结习近平的讲话说，国家主席呼吁改善市场监管，让投资者得到公平的待遇。中国股市有长期受内幕交易及其他滥用困扰的名声。
“We must prevent and ease financial risks,” the official news agency Xinhua cited Mr. Xi as saying. “Accelerate the formation of stock markets that have full financing functions, robust institutions, effective market supervision, and full protection of investors’ rights and interests.”
官方通讯社新华社援引习近平的话说，“要防范化解金融风险，加快形成融资功能完备、基础制度扎实、市场监管有效、投资者权益得到充分保护的股票市场。”
Xinhua reported on Friday that Chinese regulators planned to lift a moratorium on new stock market listings before the end of the year, as the Chinese stock market is showing tentative signs of recovery after a swoon over the summer. The Shanghai Stock Exchange has also begun looking at ways to limit how long companies can suspend trading of their shares. Monthslong halts have infuriated many investors, who find themselves unable to dispose of stakes when they need cash.
新华社上周五报道，中国的监管机构计划在今年年底前重启暂停的新股发行，因为中国股市在经历了夏季的动荡之后正呈现出复苏迹象。上海证券交易所也开始关心公司股票临时停牌时间限制的问题。长达几个月的临时停牌已经激怒了许多投资者，他们发现在需要现金时，无法出售自己手中的股票。
The concern over the stability of financial markets coincides with new indications of China’s economic doldrums. Consumer price data released on Tuesday was weaker than expected, and trade figures on Sunday showed persistent weakness in demand. Economic growth has slipped below 7 percent.
对金融市场稳定性的担忧同时再现标志中国经济继续走低的新数字。周二公布的消费者物价指数低于预期，周日公布的外贸数字显示了需求的持续疲弱。经济增长速度已跌破7％。
But one government official pointed on Tuesday to an economic dividend from the recently announced decision to relax China’s “one-child” policy.
不过，一位政府官员周二指出，最近宣布的放宽中国“一胎”政策的决定将会带来经济红利。
Allowing married couples to have two children will most likely increase the number of entrants into the labor market and reduce the proportion of older people dependent on others for care, Wang Pei’an, a vice minister of the National Health and Planning Commission, told a news conference in Beijing. The net long-term effect could lift economic growth rate by about 0.5 of a percentage point, Mr. Wang said.
国家卫生计生委副主任王培安在北京的新闻发布会上说，允许已婚夫妇生两个孩子将来有很大可能会增加进入劳动力市场的人数，降低人口抚养比。二孩政策的长期净效益将使经济潜在增长率提高约0.5个百分点，王培安说。
Until now, most urban couples have been allowed only one child, although it has been common for rural couples to have two or more children. Mr. Wang said that the relaxation of rules governing family size would bring more than 30 million new entrants into the labor force by 2050, and that the proportion of older people in China’s total population would be reduced by about 2 percentage points. In China, the term elderly typically refers to those who are 65 or older.
到目前为止，大多数城市夫妇只能生一个孩子，虽然农村夫妇普遍能有两个或两个以上的孩子。王培安说，实施全面两孩政策，到2050年可增加3000多万劳动力，而且老年人口在总人口中所占比重将降低2个百分点。在中国，老年人一般指65岁以上的人。
Experts agree that the new policy will bring an additional 17 million births by about 2020, said Yang Wenzhuang, another health and family planning official at the news conference.
卫生计生委的另一位官员杨文庄在新闻发布会上说，专家们一致认为，到2020年左右，差不多有1700万人将因新政策而出生。
“In the near term, it has a direct boost,” Mr. Yang said, noting that the changed policy would help companies that sell products for infants and mothers. “In the longer term, research from the Academy of Social Sciences has shown the impact on the potential growth rate will be about 0.5 percent. By about 2050, the population born from full implementation of the two-child policy will have become a very high-quality labor force.”
“最近几年生育水平会有一个提高，”杨文庄说，并指出新政策将对销售母婴产品的公司有拉动。“对远期，社科院的研究表明，对潜在经济增长率的影响会有0.5%左右，到2050年左右，由于全面两孩出生的人口会成为很优质的劳动力。”