SEOUL, South Korea — Relations between China and North Korea showed some signs on Saturday of thawing after a deep chill, as President Xi Jinping of China sent a warm note to the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and sent one of his most senior officials to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of Mr. Kim’s ruling party.
韩国首尔——在陷入深冻之后，中国和朝鲜的关系周六显现出了解冻的迹象，中国国家主席习近平向朝鲜领导人金正恩发了一封热情的函件，还派了中国级别最高的官员之一前去参加金氏领导的执政党成立70周年的庆祝活动。
The official, Liu Yunshan, stood next to Mr. Kim during much of an elaborate military parade in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and the two chatted frequently. Mr. Liu, a member of the Standing Committee of the Chinese Politburo, is the highest-ranking Chinese official to visit the North since Mr. Kim rose to power in late 2011.
这名官员是刘云山，在朝鲜首都平壤的一个精心制作的阅兵式上，他站在金正恩身旁，两人还时不时地聊聊。刘云山是中共中央政治局常务委员会的成员，是自2011年年底金正恩上台以来，访问朝鲜的级别最高的中国官员。
Upon arriving on Friday night for a four-day visit, Mr. Liu met with Mr. Kim and gave him Mr. Xi’s message, in a meeting that was widely covered in Chinese state news media. In the message, Mr. Xi said he not only extended the congratulations of the Chinese Communist Party but sent his own personal good wishes. He hailed Mr. Kim for having achieved “positive progress in developing the economy, improving livelihoods, and so on.”
刘云山于上周五晚抵达平壤，进行为期四天的访问，到后马上见了金正恩，向他转交了习近平的信函，中国的官方新闻媒体对这次会面作了广泛报道。习近平表示，信中带来的不仅有中国共产党的祝贺，也有他个人的美好祝愿。刘云山称赞金正恩“在发展经济、改善民生等方面取得积极进展”。
China is the isolated North’s only major ally, and Mr. Xi had seemed to establish a new distance between the countries soon after taking power in late 2012. He said that no country should be allowed to destabilize the Asian region or the world for “selfish gain,” a statement that was interpreted as a criticism of Mr. Kim’s nuclear weapons program.
中国是孤立的朝鲜仅有的主要盟友，习近平在2012年年底上台后不久，似乎在两国关系之间建立了一种新的距离，他曾表示，任何国家都不该被允许为“一己之私”把亚洲地区搞乱，人们把这句话解读为对金正恩核武器计划的批评。
China has signed on to United Nations sanctions meant to punish North Korea for its nuclear weapons program, and Mr. Kim was absent from China’s military parade in Beijing last month commemorating the end of World War II. The young North Korean leader has not visited China, or any other country, since taking power in 2011.
中国在旨在惩罚朝鲜核武器计划的联合国制裁上签了名，金正恩没有参加中国上个月在北京举行的纪念二战结束的阅兵仪式。自从2011年上台以来，这位年轻的朝鲜领导人没有访问过中国或任何其他国家。
Despite its concerns about the North’s nuclear program, China has not used its full economic leverage to discourage the North from pursuing it, apparently being more concerned about potential instability in the North that could spill into its territory. China’s economic largess keeps North Korea’s bare-bones economy afloat, but a debate has been roiling in the past year among Chinese military officials and academics over whether its ally is more a liability than an asset.
虽然中国对朝鲜的核计划表示担忧，但并并未把中国全部的经济杠杆施加于朝鲜，使其放弃核计划。中国看来对朝鲜潜在的不稳定更加关注，担心不稳定可能波及到本国境内。中国的大笔经济援助维持着朝鲜最起码的经济，但在过去的一年里，中国的军事官员和学者们一直在争论，这个盟友对中国来说更多地是负担，还是有价值的东西。
A Chinese expert on North Korea, Yang Xiyu, said that the tone of Mr. Xi’s letter to Mr. Kim was fairly standard for a message from Beijing to Pyongyang on the occasion of a major anniversary.
中国的朝鲜问题专家杨希雨说，习近平给金正恩的信的调子，是相当标准的北京在这种主要的周年纪念场合发给平壤的信息。
“Such official wordings are always the same no matter whether the bilateral relationship is in good shape or bad shape,” said Mr. Yang, a senior fellow at the China Institute of International Studies. “It’s a routine action.”
“这种官方语言总是一样的，不管双边关系是好是坏，”中国国际问题研究院高级研究员杨希雨说。“这是一种例行公事。”
But John Delury, an associate professor of international studies at Yonsei University in Seoul, South Korea, said Mr. Xi seemed to have used the military parade on Saturday — apparently the biggest celebration in the North since Mr. Xi took power — as an occasion to mend fences with the North, at least to a degree.
但是，首尔延世大学(Yonsei University)的国际问题研究副教授鲁乐汉(John Delury)说，习近平似乎是在利用周六的阅兵式，把其作为至少在一定程度上与朝鲜重修旧好的机会。周六的阅兵式看来是习近平上台以来，朝鲜举行的规模最大的庆祝活动。
“Xi’s letter marks the Chinese leader’s first real effort to make friends with Kim Jong-un,” Mr. Delury said. “The fulsome praise of the Kim dynasty is new for Xi, whose administration has sounded guarded, even irritated, in its language toward Pyongyang.”
“习近平的信标志着中国领导人与金正恩交朋友的首次真正努力，”鲁乐汉说。“向金氏王朝表达恭维之词对习近平来说是件新鲜事，习近平的政府以前对平壤使用的语言一直是戒备的，甚至是恼火的。”
Mr. Delury noted that Mr. Xi’s letter did not mention denuclearization, in contrast with the message carried by China’s last high-level visitor to Pyongyang, Vice President Li Yuanchao, who in July 2013 tried to press North Korea to slow down its nuclear program. Mr. Xi’s failure to mention denuclearization will disappointthose in Washington who believed that Beijing was coming around to their hard-line stance toward the North Korean leader, Mr. Delury said.
鲁乐汉指出，习近平的信中没有提无核化，这与中国上次去朝鲜访问的高级官员、国家副主席李源潮带去的信息形成对照，李源潮2013年7月访问时曾试图迫使朝鲜放慢其核计划。鲁乐汉说，习近平没提无核化，这将让华盛顿的一些人失望，这些人认为，北京在改变其对朝鲜最高领导人所采取的强硬立场。