BEIJING — Xi Jinping told a gathering of Asia-Pacific business executives Sunday not to worry about the Chinese economy, saying there were risks but not so many as to lose sleep over.
北京——周日，习近平告诉亚太地区的企业高管，不必担心中国经济。他承认存在风险，但认为还没到达令人辗转反侧的地步。
“Some worry whether China’s growth rate will slow down further, or whether China can overcome the obstacles — risks are indeed there, but they’re not that scary,” Mr. Xi said at the C.E.O. Summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting.
习近平在亚太经济合作组织(APEC)工商领导人峰会上说，“有人担心，中国经济增速会不会进一步回落，能不能爬坡过坎？风险确实有，但没有那么可怕。”
Mr. Xi described a lower growth rate as the “new normal,” saying that annual growth above 7 percent still placed China among the world’s top-performing countries in speed and size. China’s economy is forecast to grow at a rate of 7.5 percent this year, the weakest pace since 1990.
习近平称，比之前稍低的增长率是“新常态”，并表示，7%的年度增长率仍使中国的经济增长速度和体量在全球名列前茅。今年，中国经济增长率预计为7.5%，为1990年以来的最低值。
Projecting confidence about China’s influence beyond its borders, Mr. Xi said he wanted to create “an Asia-Pacific dream for our people,” an idea that dovetailed with Beijing’s push at the APEC summit for a new free-trade area for the Asia-Pacific that aimed to simplify rules under the more than 70 trade pacts in the region.
在表达中国的影响力将波及海外的信心时，习近平表示希望为“本地区人民创造和实现亚太梦想”。这个理念契合北京在APEC峰会上力推在亚太地区建立一个新自由贸易区的做法。该自贸区旨在简化亚太地区70多个贸易协定所制定的规则。
As the host of the APEC summit this year, China wanted the trade and foreign ministers to agree to a feasibility study for the new regional free-trade area that would represent a signature project introduced by China at the summit.
作为今年APEC峰会的主办方，中国希望各国贸易和外交部长同意对这一新的地区性自贸区进行可行性研究。该研究将是中国在峰会上推出的一个标志性项目。
The United States Trade Representative, Michael Froman, described the idea of a Chinese proposal for a free trade area in the entire Asia Pacific area as far off compared with the immediacy of the Trans Pacific Partnership, which Washington has been negotiating with 11 countries.
根据美国贸易代表迈克尔·弗罗曼(Michael Froman)的说法，与目前的跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）相比，中国提出的在整个亚太地区建立自贸区的理念可谓遥不可及。美国政府正在与11个国家就TPP进行协商。
“It’s a reaffirmation of a long-term aspiration for the region that’s to be achieved through other ongoing negotiations,” Mr. Froman said to reporters at the Beijing Convention Center.
弗罗曼在北京国际会议中心对记者说，“这再次肯定了亚太地区的一个长期渴望，而实现这一点要通过其他正在进行的谈判。”
In the lead up to the summit, the Obama administration objected to such a study, saying it would interfere with the completion of the United States-led Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade pact that Washington sees as the centerpiece of its Asia policy.
在峰会的前期工作中，奥巴马政府对此类研究表示反对，认为它将干扰美国领导的TPP的完成。在华盛顿看来，这项贸易协议是其亚洲政策的核心。
On Saturday, the APEC trade and foreign ministers agreed to a compromise: Over the next two years, APEC would conduct a “collective strategic study” for a free-trade area in the Asia-Pacific region. Also, they said there would be no target date for the completion of the area.
周六，APEC成员国的贸易和外交部长达成妥协：未来两年内，APEC将对在亚太地区设立自贸区进行“集体战略研究”。不过，他们还表示，不会为自贸区的完成设定具体的日期表。
“The Chinese wanted to sound ambitious and said ‘let’s launch a feasibility study, and we can reach this thing by 2025,”’ said a senior Obama administration official. “This would be their key initiative to bring order to the 75 trade pacts in the region.”
“中国人想展示他们的雄心，于是说‘让我们来进行可行性研究，我们可以在2025年成事，”奥巴马政府的一名高级官员说。“这将是他们为地区75个贸易协定建立秩序的关键倡议。”
The Obama administration, which has been working on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a pact that does not include China, did not want any distraction from completing the partnership, the official said. Moreover, China’s idea of a regional free-trade area would have lower standards on such items as intellectual property than the Trans- Pacific plan, the official said.
奥巴马政府一直在努力与一些国家达成TPP，但中国不在其列。这名官员表示，奥巴马政府不希望分散对TPP的注意力，此外，中国设想中的地区自由贸易区，在知识产权等事项上的标准会低于TPP。
“The United States does not want disruption to the T.P.P.,” the official said.
“美国不希望TPP受到干扰，”这名官员说。
In the face of a rising China, the Trans-Pacific Partnership has been promoted by the administration since 2009 as the centerpiece of its effort to show strength in Asia. Any hopes to complete the negotiations for the partnership, which covers environmental and labor standards, by the initial goal of the end of this year were abandoned.
面对不断崛起的中国，奥巴马政府自2009年以来一直在推进跨太平洋伙伴关系的建立，作为美国在亚洲展示实力的核心举措。这一伙伴关系的谈判涵盖了环境和劳工标准等内容。在今年年底之前完成谈判的最初目标已经被彻底放弃。
The United States trade representative, Michael Froman, met with trade ministers involved in negotiations for the Trans-Pacific plan on Saturday in Beijing.
周六在北京，美国贸易代表迈克尔·弗罗曼会见了TPP谈判有关各方的贸易部长。 There was “significant progress” and a “lot of momentum” toward a conclusion of the pact, Mr. Froman said Sunday.
弗罗曼周日表示，在朝着达成TPP的方向上，目前存在着“重大进展”和“强劲势头”。
The biggest sticking point remained Japan’s heavily protected agricultural sector, which Prime Minister Shinzo Abe promised the Obama administration would be opened up under terms of the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
最大的症结仍然是受到严重保护的日本农业部门。日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)已经向奥巴马政府承诺，将根据跨太平洋伙伴关系协定的条款开放这一领域。
“We’ve made progress, but we’re not there yet,” Mr. Froman said.“我们已经取得进展，但还没有到达终点，”弗罗曼说。 President Obama, due to arrive in Beijing on Monday for the APEC summit, is set to meet with the leaders of the 11 other countries involved in the partnership.
奥巴马总统将于周一抵达北京参加APEC峰会。他计划与跨太平洋伙伴关系涉及的另外11个国家的领导人见面。
Mr. Obama, who visited Japan last spring, is not expected to meet separately with Mr. Abe, whose main goal at the summit is to meet with President Xi.
奥巴马今年春天曾访问日本，预计这一次不会与安倍晋三单独见面。后者出席此次峰会的主要目的是与习近平主席会晤。
The meeting between the Chinese and Japanese leaders, which is likely to take place Monday, would be a first step toward repairing the Cold War-style standoff between China and Japan since the two leaders came to power.
中日领导人的会面可能安排在周一进行。这将是二人上台以来，两国朝着扭转冷战式僵局迈出的第一步。
Despite the drawn out negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the administration got a shot in the arm for completion of the pact last week when Republicans on Capitol Hill said they would vote to approve Trade Promotion Authority legislation.
尽管TPP谈判迟迟未能敲定，但奥巴马政府上周获得了完成这一协定的新动力：国会的共和党人称，他们将表决通过贸易促进授权法。
Such authority eases approval of complicated trade deals by stipulating that lawmakers cannot make changes to a trade pact once it has been signed by the participants.
这一授权将规定，一旦贸易协定的参与方签署了协议，国会将不能对其进行更改。复杂贸易协议的审批程序将因此得到简化。
“The next time the president calls on Congress to approve Trade Promotion Authority legislation, he’ll hear a resounding ‘yes’ from the new majority party,” said Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming.
“下一次总统呼吁国会通过贸易促进授权法时，他将听到新的多数党发出响亮的‘同意’，”来自怀俄明州的共和党参议员约翰·巴拉索(John Barrasso)说。