President Xi Jinping of China continued his campaign to be seen as a warm, down-to-earth leader by taking a stroll Tuesday morning through a Beijing neighborhood that is popular with tourists and locals alike.
中国国家主席习近平仍在努力塑造一个关心群众、平易近人的领导人形象。周二上午，他走访了北京一个深受游客和当地人喜爱的街区。
Accompanied by top Beijing officials, Mr. Xi was photographed smiling and stopping for a chat with a gathered crowd. News of the visit spread rapidly on China’s social media and appeared to originate from a Beijing resident, a self-professed soccer fan, who posted photos of the stroll on his Sina microblog.
照片显示，在北京高层官员的陪同下，习近平满脸笑意地停下来与闻讯而来的人们交谈。有关此事的消息在中国的社交媒体上迅速传播，消息的源头似乎是一个自称为足球迷的北京市民。此人在他的新浪微博上发布了相关照片。
The narrow alleyway that Mr. Xi visited, near Nanluoguxiang, is in a historic area of Beijing, north of the Forbidden City. On normal days, the area is crowded with vendors plying snacks, souvenirs and accessories.
习近平走访的小巷位于南锣鼓巷附近，是北京的一个历史文化区，位于紫禁城以北。平时，这里通常挤满了售卖小点心、纪念品和饰物的小贩。
In a video posted online, Mr. Xi is heard exchanging greetings with the crowd. He asks a group if they were visiting or lived in the neighborhood. A woman, who apparently filmed the clip, replied that she was a long-term resident of the area.
发布在网上的一段视频显示，习近平在与人群互相问候。他问一些人是来这里游玩还是住在附近，一名女子回答道，她是这个街区的老居民。此人似乎是这段视频的拍摄者。
It was perhaps not the best day for a photo opportunity. Beijing is currently enshrouded by hazardous levels of smog. Social media users noted that Mr. Xi did not wear a face mask. Neither did people in the crowds that greeted him.
当天或许不是最适合拍照的日子。北京目前正被已达危险级别的雾霾所笼罩。社交媒体用户注意到习近平没戴口罩。欢迎他的人群也没有戴。
It is unclear why Mr. Xi decided to take this public walk through Beijing, but the Chinese leader is no stranger to public diplomacy. In December, Mr. Xi made an impromptu appearance at a traditional steamed bun restaurant in Beijing, bringing instant popularity to the affordable eatery. His visit even inspired a song.
尚不清楚习近平为何决定在北京的公共场所步行，但这位中国领导人对公众外交并不陌生。去年12月，习近平突然出现在了北京一家传统的包子铺，让这家平价小餐馆一举成名。有人甚至还以他到访包子铺为主题创作了一首歌。
Chinese media outlets reported that during his stroll on Tuesday, Mr. Xi toured two traditional courtyards and asked local residents about their lives in the hutong. The delegation was accompanied by a film crew, though it is unclear from which media or government organization.
中国媒体机构报道称，周二闲逛的过程中，习近平走访了两个传统的四合院，询问了当地居民在胡同里的生活情况。与习近平等人同行的有一个摄制组，但尚不清楚这个摄制组来自哪家媒体，或哪个政府机构。