President Xi Jinping spoke Monday at a ceremony in Beijing marking the 77th anniversary of Japan’s war with China, and he condemned efforts to revise views of Japan’s history of military aggression.
国家主席习近平周一在北京纪念抗日战争爆发77周年的仪式上发表讲话，谴责了企图修改对日军侵略历史看法的做法。
“History is history, and facts are facts. Nobody can change history and facts,” Mr. Xi said during the ceremony at a war museum in suburban Beijing, which was attended by students, officials and war veterans. “Chinese people who have made such a great sacrifice will not waver in protecting a history written in sacrifice and blood. Anyone who wants to deny, distort or beautify the history of the invasion will definitely not find agreement from the people of China or the rest of the world.”
“历史就是历史，事实就是事实，任何人都不可能改变历史和事实，”习近平在北京郊外的战争纪念馆举行的仪式上说，参加纪念仪式的有学生、官员，以及抗战老兵。“付出了巨大牺牲的中国人民，将坚定不移捍卫用鲜血和生命写下的历史。任何人想要否定、歪曲甚至美化侵略历史，中国人民和各国人民绝不答应！”
As tensions between China and Japan remain high over territorial disputes, China has sought to publicize Japan’s brutal wartime occupation, a reminder of how the past is never far behind in the relationship between the two Asian powers.
中国和日本有关领土的争议使两国关系持续紧张，中国寻求通过大力宣传日本在战争期间对中国的残暴占领，来提醒人们：在这两个亚洲大国的关系中，历史从来都不是早已过去的事情。
While Mr. Xi’s predecessor, Hu Jintao, also participated in war memorial events, it was typically on dates that were commemorated internationally, such as the 2005 observances marking the 60th anniversary of the end of the war or the 65th anniversary in 2010.
虽然习近平的前任胡锦涛也参加纪念战争的活动，但通常是在国际纪念日，比如2005年的二战结束60周年纪念日，或2010年的65周年纪念日。
Monday’s event marked the anniversary of the July 7, 1937, Marco Polo Bridge incident, a skirmish between Japanese Imperial Army forces and China’s Nationalist Army along a rail line southwest of Beijing. Although Japan invaded Manchuria six years earlier, the 1937 incident is considered the official start of the full-scale conflict, which is known in China as the War of Resistance Against Japan.
周一的活动纪念的是1937年7月7日的卢沟桥事件，那是日本关东军部队与中国国民党的军队发生在北京西南一条铁路沿线的小规模战斗。虽然日本早在六年前就入侵了满洲里，但1937年的那次事件被认为是全面冲突的正式开端，中国称其为抗日战争。
Monday’s ceremony, which included the unveiling of a sculpture based on a medal given to Chinese veterans of the conflict, was given extensive coverage by Chinese newspapers, television and online media. Veterans from both the Chinese Kuomintang and Chinese Communist armies participated.
周一的仪式包括给一个雕塑揭幕，雕塑是基于发给参战的中国老兵的勋章建造的，中国的报纸、电视以及网络媒体对仪式做了广泛报道。来自中国国民党部队和中国共产党部队的老兵参加了这次活动。
The Marco Polo Bridge incident is also known in Chinese as the “77 incident” for its date on the seventh day of the seventh month of the year. But the Chinese news media noted the particularly high-profile celebration had as much to do with current events as historic dates.
卢沟桥事件也因其发生的月份和日期而被称为“七七事变”。但是，中国新闻媒体特别高调地报道这个纪念日，不仅与历史的日子有关，也与时事有关。
“It’s worth paying attention to the fact that this year is the commemoration of the 77th anniversary of the start of the all people’s war of resistance, and the 69th anniversary of victory, it really isn’t an ‘every five’ or ‘every 10’ year event,” reported The Beijing News, which made the anniversary its lead story Monday.
“值得注意的是，今年是纪念全民族抗战爆发77周年，抗战胜利69周年，并非“逢五”和“逢十”的年份，”《新京报》报道说，有关纪念活动的报道刊登在该报周一的头版。
The unusual focus this year is closely related to the state of relations between China and Japan, the newspaper said, citing the Shanghai Normal University historian Su Zhiliang. “At this time, we are reviewing history and its real meaning, to make the Chinese people more vigilant and at the same time warn international society,” Mr. Su said.
该报援引上海师范大学历史学家苏智良的话说，今年不同寻常的纪念与中日两国关系的现状密切相关。苏智良说，“在这个时候，我们重温历史，有现实的意义，令中国老百姓提高警惕，同时告诫国际社会。”
China has accused Japan of failing to fully come to terms with its wartime aggression and has questioned the sincerity of its apology for the sexual slavery of women from China, Korea and other parts of Asia during the war. Visits by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and other Japanese officials to the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, which honors the nation’s war dead, including several Class A war criminals, routinely set off complaints from China and South Korea.
中国曾指责日本未能完全接受其在战争中的侵略行为，并对日本就战争期间强迫中国、朝鲜以及亚洲其他地方的妇女充当性奴隶的道歉的诚意表示质疑。日本首相安培晋三(Shinzo Abe)以及其他政府官员对东京靖国神社的参拜，经常引起中国和韩国的不满，靖国神社供奉着日本的战争死亡者，其中包括几个甲级战犯。
China and Japan have been at odds over uninhabited islets in the East China Sea that Japan occupies but China also claims as its own. Waters around the islets, known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, have seen frequent encounters between Chinese and Japanese coast guard and military vessels. Last month China accused Japanese military pilots of acting aggressively when they flew close to a Chinese surveillance plane over the East China Sea.
中国和日本对东海的几个无人居住的小岛有争议，日本目前占据着这些岛屿，但中国宣称对它们拥有主权。日本称这些岛屿为“尖阁诸岛”(Senkaku)，中国称之为“钓鱼岛”，中国和日本的海岸警卫队及海军的船只常在岛屿附近的水域中遭遇。上个月，中国曾谴责日本军方飞行员在东海上空靠近中国侦察机飞行是挑衅行为。