COLOMBO, Sri Lanka — President Xi Jinping of China arrived in Sri Lanka on Tuesday for a 23-hour trip to this island nation to sign a raft of agreements as China chips away at India’s traditional dominance in the region.
斯里兰卡科伦坡——中国国家主席习近平于周二抵达斯里兰卡，开启了为期23小时的岛国之旅，准备与斯里兰卡签署一系列协议。中国正在削弱印度在该地区的传统主导地位。
Mr. Xi’s plane traveled across the Indian Ocean from nearby Malé, the capital of the Maldives, where he signed an agreement to upgrade Malé’s airport and build a bridge, a housing project and a road. The airport project had been given to an Indian construction giant, GMR. But the Maldives abruptly canceled that contract in 2012 and instead gave it to China.
习近平从马尔代夫首都马累乘坐飞机穿越印度洋，此前他在马累签署了协议，涉及马累机场的升级以及一座桥梁、一个住宅项目和一条道路的修建工程。马尔代夫曾将机场工程交给了印度建筑业巨头GMR集团，但在2012年突然撤销了合同，转而与中国签署合同。
In Colombo, the Sri Lankan capital, on Tuesday, Mr. Xi inaugurated the final phase of a coal-fired power plant financed by Beijing and built by China Machinery Engineering Corporation. And he and the Sri Lankan president, Mahinda Rajapaksa, agreed to cooperate on the Colombo Port City project, a $1.3 billion plan to build an artificial island off Colombo.
周二，习近平在斯里兰卡首都科伦坡出席了一座火力发电站最后一期工程的启动仪式，该发电站由北京方面资助，由中国机械设备工程股份有限公司承建。习近平与斯里兰卡总统马欣达·拉贾帕克萨(Mahinda Rajapaksa)就合作开展科隆坡港口城项目达成一致，计划花费13亿美元（约合80亿元人民币）在科伦坡沿岸建造一座人工岛屿。
On Wednesday, Mr. Xi is expected to visit the Colombo South Container Terminal, in which the Chinese government has a controlling stake through the state-run China Merchant Holdings.
周三，习近平将参观科伦坡港南集装箱码头(Colombo South Container Terminal)，中国政府通过国有企业中国招商局集团取得了该公司的控股权。
Mr. Xi was given a grand welcome at Colombo’s airport, with decorated elephants and traditional dancers on hand to greet him. Mr. Xi then traveled to the capital along a Chinese-built expressway.
斯里兰卡为习近平在科伦坡机场举行了盛大的欢迎仪式，披挂装饰的大象与跳着传统舞蹈的人们到场欢迎习近平。习近平随后经中国建造的高速公路到达首都。
In a letter published on Tuesday in a Sri Lankan government newspaper, Mr. Xi wrote that China “resolutely opposes any move by any country to interfere in Sri Lanka’s internal affairs under any excuse.” The statement was an obvious reference to growing pressure on Sri Lanka from the United States and other Western countries to investigate the killing of civilians during its civil war.
在周二发表于斯里兰卡官方报纸的信中，习近平写道，中国“坚决反对任何国家以任何借口干涉斯里兰卡内政”。这一表态明显指向美国和其他西方国家为要求斯里兰卡调查内战中平民死亡而不断施压的做法。
In his remarks, Mr. Rajapaksa said that China’s investments in Sri Lanka had provided every resident with cheap electricity. Mr. Rajapaksa, who is campaigning for his party’s candidates in provincial elections, announced that electric bills would immediately be cut by 25 percent.
拉贾帕克萨在演讲中说，中国对斯里兰卡的投资让每户居民都用上了价格低廉的电。拉贾帕克萨正在帮助党内候选人在省级选举中造势。拉贾帕克萨宣布，电费将立即下调25%。
China’s efforts to secure naval and maritime access throughout South Asia — a strategy called the “string of pearls” — has unnerved India. But with India distracted by its own problems, China’s outreach has been welcomed by both the Maldives and Sri Lanka.
中国为确保海军在南亚海域畅通无阻而采取的行动——所谓的“珍珠链”战略——令印度紧张不安。在印度忙于应付本国问题的同时，中国的友好接触受到了马尔代夫和斯里兰卡的欢迎。