BEIJING — President Donald J. Trump and his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, discussed growing tensions over North Korea’s advancing nuclear arms program, with Mr. Xi urging Mr. Trump to show restraint despite signs that the North may be preparing a nuclear test.
北京——唐纳德·J·特朗普总统和中国国家主席习近平讨论了朝鲜推进核武器计划造成的紧张局势。习近平敦促特朗普保持克制，尽管有迹象表明，朝鲜可能正在准备再次进行核试验。
This month, Mr. Trump has already used a meeting with Mr. Xi in Florida, a follow-up phone call, interviews and Twitter messages to press Mr. Xi to do more to deter North Korea from holding additional nuclear and missile tests. The latest call between the leaders — on Monday morning in Beijing — came amid warnings that the North may be preparing another atomic test explosion.
本月，特朗普已经通过在佛罗里达州与习近平的会晤、之后的电话通话、采访和Twitter消息敦促习近平采取更多行动，遏制朝鲜，不让该国进行更多的核试验和导弹试验。北京时间周一上午，两位领导人进行了最新的通话，这是因为他们收到警告，朝鲜可能正在准备另一次原子弹爆炸试验。
In the latest call, the third between the two leaders, Mr. Xi told Mr. Trump that China opposed any such steps by North Korea, but he also nudged Mr. Trump to show restraint, according to a report on Chinese television.
据中国电视台的报道，在两国领导人之间的最近一次、也就是第三次通话中，习近平向特朗普表示，中国反对朝鲜的任何此类行动，但他也敦促特朗普保持克制。
“China adamantly opposes any actions in contravention of the United Nations Security Council resolutions,” Mr. Xi said, according to the report, evidently referring to a series of decisions by the council to punish North Korea for its nuclear and missile programs.
该报道称，习近平说，“中国坚决反对任何违反联合国安全理事会决议的行为。”他显然指的是安理会做出的一系列有关惩罚朝鲜核计划和导弹计划的决定。
“At the same time, it is hoped that all sides exercise restraint and avoid doing things that exacerbate tensions on the peninsula,” Mr. Xi said, referring to the Korean Peninsula. “Only if all sides live up to their responsibilities and come together from different directions can the nuclear issue on the peninsula be resolved as quickly as possible.”
“同时，希望有关各方保持克制，避免做加剧半岛局势紧张的事，”习近平表示。他所说的半岛指的是朝鲜半岛。“只有有关各方都负起该负的责任、相向而行，才能尽快解决朝鲜半岛核问题。”
The comments reflected growing Chinese fears that the tensions between North Korea and the United States and its Asian allies could spiral into outright military conflict. That widening rift is presenting China with hard choices between its longstanding ties to North Korea and its hopes for steady relations with the United States.
此番言论反映出中国越来越担心朝鲜与美国及其亚洲盟友间的紧张关系可能发展成全面军事冲突。逐渐扩大的裂痕让中国面临两难抉择，是保持与朝鲜之间的长期联系，还是继续期望与美国保持稳定关系。
Mr. Trump also spoke with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, a close American ally, on Monday morning in Tokyo, Mr. Abe told reporters.
美国的亲密盟国日本的首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)告诉记者，特朗普也在周一上午与身在东京的他通了话。
“North Korea’s nuclear and missile program is an extremely serious threat to security not only in the international community but also for our country,” Mr. Abe said. “We will continue to closely cooperate and maintain the high level of warning and surveillance. We will respond resolutely.”
“朝鲜的核导弹计划对国际社会和我们国家都是极端严重的安全威胁，”安倍晋三说，“我们将继续密切配合，保持高度警戒和监视。我们会做出坚决回应。”
The White House did not immediately issue its own accounts of Mr. Trump’s calls with Mr. Xi and Mr. Abe.
白宫没有立即发表关于特朗普与习近平和安倍晋三通话的声明。
But Washington and allied governments believe that North Korea’s weapons development is getting closer to mastering the means to hit the continental United States with a ballistic missile. And they have become increasingly impatient with China to do more to rein in North Korea.
但是华盛顿和盟国政府相信，朝鲜越来越接近掌握使用弹道导弹袭击美国本土的手段。因此在让中国做更多事情去控制朝鲜方面，他们变得越来越不耐烦。
North Korea did not proceed with a nuclear test on April 15, which some experts had expected, but work apparently resumed at its atomic test site in Punggye-ri, said analysts who have assessed satellite images of the site.
出乎一些专家预料，朝鲜在4月15日没有进行核试验。分析师们评估了相关卫星图像之后，发现针对该核试验地点丰溪里(Punggye-ri)的工作似乎已经恢复。
The Chinese government has already increased some pressure on North Korea, which traditionally depends on China for much of its trade, foreign currency and energy. In February, China officially suspended coal shipments from North Korea, and a prominent Chinese newspaper has also raised the threat of choking oil shipments to the North.
中国政府已对朝鲜增加了一些压力，传统上，朝鲜的大部分贸易、外汇与能源都要依赖中国。二月份，中国正式暂停从朝鲜进口煤炭，一家重要的中国报纸也威胁称，要切断对朝鲜的石油供给。
Yet Beijing also argues that Washington must also do more to end the volatile impasse with Pyongyang. Chinese diplomats have urged the United States to suspend major military exercises with South Korea in return for North Korea suspending nuclear and missile tests.
然而北京也提出，为结束与平壤的动荡僵局，华盛顿同样必须做更多工作。中国外交官曾敦促美国暂停与韩国进行大规模军事演习，以换取朝鲜暂停核试验与导弹测试。
Mr. Xi’s government has also fiercely opposed an antimissile system — called the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system, or Thaad — that the Trump administration has begun installing in South Korea. China argues that the system could also be rejiggered to spy on its missiles.
习近平政府还一直强烈反对特朗普政府开始在韩国部署末段高空防御（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense，简称“萨德”）反导弹系统的做法。中国认为，该系统也可以被重新设置，用来监视中国的导弹。
But White House officials have said North Korea must prove it is serious about dismantling its nuclear and missiles programs before new negotiations are possible.
但白宫官员表示，在新的谈判成为可能之前，朝鲜必须表明自己废除核弹与导弹计划的诚意。
In their latest call, Mr. Xi told Mr. Trump that he wanted to work with the United States.
习近平在最新的通话中告诉特朗普，他希望与美国合作。
“International circumstances are changing rapidly, and it’s extremely necessary for China and the United States to maintain close contacts and promptly exchange views on major issues,” Mr. Xi said.
习近平说，“当前国际形势迅速变化，中美双方保持密切联系，及时就重要问题交换意见，十分必要。”