President Xi Jinping wore a modified Mao suit to a state dinner hosted by the Dutch royal family in Amsterdam on Saturday, eliciting surprise from Chinese citizens who are used to their leaders’ sartorial decisions being a model of suit-and-tie uniformity.
国家主席习近平身穿中式礼服出席了荷兰王室周六在阿姆斯特丹举办的国宴，这让中国公民颇感惊讶，他们已经习惯于本国领导人的服装选择是同样的西装领带的形象。
The chatter about Mr. Xi’s outfit follows extended online discussion of the clothing of his wife, Peng Liyuan, and that of Michelle Obama during the American first lady’s trip to China with her mother and daughters, which began last week.
人们对习近平着装的喋喋不休是此前网上讨论的继续，过去的讨论针对的是他的妻子彭丽媛的服装、以及美国第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)访华期间的穿戴，奥巴马夫人携女儿和母亲上周来到中国。
The discussion of the first ladies’ apparel choices prompted objections that the women should be accorded significance for far more than what they wear, and that male leaders are rarely subjected to fashion analyses.
对两国第一夫人服装选择的讨论引起了一些反对的声音，这些声音认为女人应该被赋予远远超过她们穿什么衣服的重要性，并指出男性领导人很少成为时尚分析的对象。
Mr. Xi wore a modified version of what is known as a Mao suit in English, but a Zhongshan suit in Chinese — a reference to Sun Yat-sen (Sun Zhongshan in Mandarin),  who is credited with popularizing the military-style tunic. Mr. Xi’s version was a modernized take with an upturned collar that replaced the traditional four bulky patch pockets with three sleeker ones, including one on the left breast, where Mr. Xi placed a dotted pocket square.
习近平身穿一件以中山装为基础设计的正式服装，“中山”指的是孙中山，是他普及了这种军事风格的服装。习近平穿的是现代版的立领中山装，上面没有传统的四个像补丁似的大口袋，而是三个更时尚的口袋，其中一个在左胸的位置，习近平在那个口袋里放了一个有斑点的方手绢。
“Chairman Xi’s Mao suit has been improved upon, because the hidden buttons have a modern, simplified style,” wrote Sun Zhengxue, a painter, on his Sina Weibo account. “This is a model of combining modern Chinese and Western styles.”
画家孙正学在他的新浪微博账户上写道，“习主席的中山装经过改良，暗扣是现代的简约风格。这是一种现代中式与西式相结合的服装。”
China’s leaders seldom attract attention for their choice of clothing, which for the past two decades has tended to be been dark Western suits and ties on formal occasions. But major changes do provoke notice. In December 1978, Zbigniew Brzezinski, then the United States national security adviser, reacted with surprise when the Chinese ambassador to the United States, Chai Zemin, arrived at a meeting wearing a Western suit and tie instead of his usual Mao suit.
中国领导人很少因为自己的着装选择而引起人们的注意。过去20多年来，他们在正式场合都倾向于深色西装和领带。但是，较大的变化的确会引起人们的注意。1978年时任美国国家安全顾问兹比格涅夫·布热津斯基(Zbigniew Brzezinski)对当时中国驻美国大使柴泽民穿西装打领带、而不是穿着往常的中山装出席一次会议感到十分惊讶。
“I don’t recognize you!” Mr. Brzezinski said, according to a transcript.
据美国国务院的一份会议记录显示，布热津斯基说，“我没认出你来。”
“Yes,” the ambassador replied.
“是的，”该大使回答道。
That meeting occurred two years after Mao’s death, just before the United States and China normalized relations, at a time when China was just beginning to embrace market-oriented economic changes. As an ambassador in Washington, Mr. Chai was perhaps more likely to adopt Western attire.
那次会面发生在毛泽东逝世两年之后的中美正式建交前不久，那是中国即将开始以市场为主导的经济改革之际。作为驻美大使出现在华盛顿的柴泽民或许更有可能改穿西服。
But Mr. Xi’s style choice is unlikely to have such ideological import. His predecessors, Hu Jintao and Jiang Zemin, on occasion wore Mao suits for public events, such as anniversaries of the founding of the People’s Republic of China. The state-run China Daily, saying his choice of a Chinese-style suit reflected “national pride and confidence in Chinese culture.”
但是，习近平的服装风格选择可能不会有那种意识形态上的意义。他的前任胡锦涛和江泽民都曾在公开场合穿过中山装，比如在国庆节时。国家媒体《中国日报》称，选择穿中式服装反映出“民族自豪感和对中国文化的信心。”