BEIJING — China’s president, Xi Jinping, travels to Pakistan on Monday laden with tens of billions of dollars in infrastructure and energy assistance on a scale the United States has never offered in the past decade of a close relationship, a gesture likely to confirm the decline of American influence in that nation.
北京——周一，中国国家主席习近平携价值数百亿美元的基础设施和能源援助访问巴基斯坦。这一举动也许是在证实，美国对巴基斯坦的影响力在下降。过去十年里，虽然关系密切，但美国从未向其提供这么大规模的援助。
Mr. Xi, making his first overseas trip this year, and the first by a Chinese leader to Pakistan in nine years, will arrive fortified from the robust reception to the new China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and is looking to show that China can make a difference in a friendly, neighboring country troubled by terrorism.
这是习近平今年的首次出访。作为九年来首位到访巴基斯坦的中国领导人，习近平因中国主导的新银行亚洲基础设施投资银行（Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank，简称亚投行）被广泛接受，地位得到了巩固。他正希望表明，中国能给一个深受恐怖主义困扰的友好邻国带来变化。
Pakistani officials say that Mr. Xi will be signing accords for $46 billion for the construction of roads, rails and power plants to be built on a commercial basis by Chinese companies over 15 years.
巴基斯坦官员称，习近平将签署价值460亿美元（约合2900亿元人民币）的协议。这笔钱将用于公路、铁路和发电厂建设。在15年的时间里，中国公司将基于商业原则，承担相关建设工作。
A significant amount of China’s new assistance, including a port facility at Gwadar on the Arabian Sea, and rails and roads leading from the port across Baluchistan Province and into western China, will be in areas close to the tribal areas where the militant groups operate.
中国提供的大量新援助项目，包括阿拉伯海岸边瓜达尔的一处港口设施，以及从该港口出发、贯穿俾路支省并最终进入中国西部的铁路和公路，都将位于那些激进组织活动的部落地区附近。
The route from Gwadar to Kashgar, in Xinjiang — a project officially called the Economic Corridor — also serves as a shortcut for the shipment of goods from Europe to China, avoiding the Strait of Malacca farther east.
从瓜达尔到新疆喀什的路线——官方称该项目为“经济走廊”——也是从欧洲到中国的一条货运捷径，避免了绕至更东边的马六甲海峡。
“The Chinese are stepping in, in a much, much bigger way than the United States ever contemplated,” said Jahangir Tareen, a Pakistani businessman, and the secretary general of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party. “The assistance is far, far more than the United States government offered under the United States Agency for International Development.”
“中国正在以远远超出美国预计的方式介入，”巴基斯坦商人、巴基斯坦正义运动党(Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf)秘书长贾汉吉尔·塔林(Jahangir Tareen)说。“提供的援助也远远超过了美国政府通过美国国际开发署(United States Agency for International Development)提供的援助。”
In advance of his trip, Mr. Xi wrote in a column distributed to the Pakistani news media over the weekend: “We need to form a ‘1+4’ cooperation structure with the Economic Corridor at the center and the Gwadar Port, energy, infrastructure and industrial cooperation being the four key areas to drive development across Pakistan and deliver tangible benefits to its people.”
在出访前，习近平在周末分发给巴基斯坦新闻媒体的一篇专栏文章中写道：“双方要以中巴经济走廊建设为中心，瓜达尔港、能源、基础设施建设、产业合作为四大重点，形成‘1+4’合作布局，带动巴基斯坦各地区发展，让巴基斯坦广大民众得到实惠。”
Most striking about the visit is the scale of Mr. Xi’s aid announcement compared with the American effort from 2009 to 2012 spearheaded in Congress by John Kerry, then a senator, and pressed in Pakistan by Hillary Rodham Clinton, then secretary of state. The program designated $7.5 billion for development projects over five years.
关于此次访问，最引人注目的是习近平的援助声明与美国的援助在规模上形成的对比。从2009年到2012年，美国对巴基斯坦的援助项目，先是由当时还是参议员的约翰·克里(John Kerry)在国会提出，后由时任国务卿的希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在巴基斯坦推动。项目规定在五年时间内为巴基斯坦的发展项目提供75亿美元。
That effort was a “dramatic failure” because the resources were scattered too thinly, and had no practical or strategic impact, said David S. Sedney, a former senior official at the Pentagon responsible for Pakistan during that period.
在那个时期负责巴基斯坦事务的前五角大楼高官戴维·S·塞德尼(David S. Sedney)称该项目遭遇“惨败”，原因是资源太过分散，没有实际或战略影响。
The Chinese appear to have learned from the American program, including the notion that the American plan was designed to deliver a strategic result — deterring terrorism — but failed to do so, Mr. Sedney said.
塞德尼称，中国似乎从美国的那个项目中吸取了教训，包括指出美国的计划旨在实现战略目的，即威慑恐怖主义，但却未能如愿。
To do better than the United States, the Chinese have come up with “a much larger financial commitment — and it is focused on a specific area, it has a signature infrastructure focus and it is a decades-long commitment,” he said.
他说，为了胜过美国，中国“做出了大很多的经济承诺，重点关注一个具体领域，它对基础设施领域的关注是一个标志性的特征，并且承诺数十年的时间跨度”。
The Chinese Foreign Ministry said on Friday that the projects in Pakistan would be the first initiatives of the $40 billion Silk Road Economic Belt and Maritime Silk Road plans, an ambitious network of roads, rails and ports designed to link China to Europe through Central Asia and Russia, and announced with considerable fanfare by Mr. Xi in November.
中国外交部周五称，巴基斯坦的这些项目将是丝绸之路经济带和海上丝绸之路计划的首批项目。规模达400亿美元的丝绸之路经济带和海上丝绸之路计划涵盖了一个雄心勃勃的公路、铁路和港口网络，旨在通过中亚和俄罗斯连接中国和欧洲。去年11月习近平宣布了这一计划，并引起了极大的关注。
China’s assistant foreign minister, Liu Jianchao, declined to say how much of the Silk Road funds would go to the Pakistani projects, or how much the new Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank would lend. “It needs huge financing. China stands ready to provide financing,” Mr. Liu said.
中国外交部长助理刘建超拒绝透露将有多少丝绸之路的资金用于巴基斯坦的项目，也没有透露新的亚洲基础设施投资银行将会提供多少贷款。“它需要大量融资。中国随时准备提供这些融资，”刘建超说。
Mr. Xi embarks on his visit to Pakistan after the Finance Ministry announced last week that 57 countries had signed to join the new development bank.
习近平开始访问巴基斯坦之前，中国财政部上周宣布，已有57个国家签署加入了这家新的开发银行。
Perhaps just as important as China’s economic assistance is a major military deal that is unlikely to be publicized during the Chinese leader’s visit, Pakistani analysts said.
巴基斯坦的分析人士说，与中国的经济援助同样重要的或许还有一项主要的军事协议，该协议的内容不太可能在习近平访问期间对外公布。
Pakistan has agreed to buy eight Chinese submarines to counter India’s naval dominance in the Indian Ocean, a $6 billion purchase approved by a parliamentary committee in Islamabad this month. The new submarines were “very quiet, capable and lethal,” and a step up from previous Chinese arms sales to Pakistan, said Lyle J. Goldstein, associate professor at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I.
巴基斯坦已经同意购买八艘中国的潜水艇，以遏制印度海军在印度洋上的主导地位。伊斯兰堡的一个议会委员会本月通过了这笔规模达60亿美元的交易。设在罗德岛纽波特的美国海军战争学院(United States Naval War College)副教授莱尔·J·戈尔茨坦(Lyle J. Goldstein)说，这些新的潜水艇“非常安静、强大，具有很大的杀伤力”，在之前中国对巴基斯坦武器销售的基础上又上了新台阶。