COLOMBO, Sri Lanka — Chinese President Xi Jinping visited Sri Lanka on Tuesday to forge closer ties and help launch a $1.4 billion port city project funded by his government.
斯里兰卡科伦坡——中国国家主席习近平周二抵达斯里兰卡进行国事访问，以促进双边关系，并签约一项由中方出资、造价14亿美元的港口城项目。
Xi, the first Chinese leader to visit in 28 years, and Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa were expected to oversee the signing of up to 20 agreements, including one for a new coal power plant.
习近平此次作为28年来首次到访斯里兰卡的中国领导人，与斯里兰卡总统马欣达·拉贾帕克萨(Mahinda Rajapaksa)一道，将见证两国签署20多项各类合作协议，其中包括新建一座火力发电站。
Xi is visiting countries in South Asia this week to seek closer relations and support for his vision of a modern maritime "Silk Road" — a sea route connecting China with Europe. On Monday, he secured backing from the nearby archipelago nation of the Maldives.
习近平本周在南亚多国进行访问，以拉近外交关系，并推动他现代海上“丝绸之路”愿景的建设——即通过海路连接中国与欧洲。周一，习近平已经成功获得了岛国马尔代夫的支持。
The Chinese president planned to help launch Colombo Port City, being constructed on an artificial island off Colombo with $1.4 billion in Chinese loans, according to the builder, China Communications Construction Co. Ltd.
据施工方中国交通建设股份有限公司，中国国家主席习近平计划将帮助启动“科伦坡港口城”项目，这一项目坐落在在与科伦坡隔海相望的人造岛屿上，将在中方14亿美元贷款的支持下开工建设。
The company said the port city will be a "hub on the marine Silk Road of Asia and position itself as the preferred global tourism destination in Asia."
中国交建称港口城将成为“亚洲海上丝绸之路的枢纽，和世界游客在亚洲的首选旅游胜地。”
Earlier Chinese investment in the port of Hambantota led many to speculate that Sri Lanka is meant to be a key stop along the maritime Silk Road.
较早之前中方在斯里兰卡港口城市汉班托塔的投资就已使得多方猜测，斯里兰卡已成为海上丝绸之路的关键一站。
Xi also was to launch the final phase of a 900 MW coal power plant valued at more than $1.3 billion.
习近平还将主持一座900兆瓦火电厂最后一期的开工仪式，电厂投资超过13亿美元。
"I believe that the ship of China-Sri Lanka friendship and cooperation is bound to brave the wind and waves along the magnificent 21st Century Maritime Silk Road to pursue the dream of national development," Xi said in an article published Tuesday in Sri Lanka's state-run Daily News.
习近平在斯里兰卡的官方报纸《每日新闻》上发表署名文章，说：“我相信，中斯两国友谊合作之舟必将在波澜壮阔的21世纪海上丝绸之路上乘风破浪，追逐民族发展的梦想。”
China has become Sri Lanka's largest lender in recent years, providing more than $6 billion through September 2013 for port facilities, highways and a new international airport.
近几年，中国已经成为斯里兰卡最大的债权国，截至2013年9月已向该国贷款超过60亿美元，用于港口、公路和一个新国际机场的建设。