Natural gas projects may be the most desirable gift Turkmenistan’s president brought with him to China, but a “heavenly horse,” presented to China’s president, Xi Jinping, was definitely more photogenic.
虽然天然气项目可能是土库曼斯坦总统访华所带来的最理想的礼物，但他赠送给中国国家主席习近平的“天马”肯定更上镜头。
Photographs of the Monday event showed the sleek creature munching on a carrot offered by President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow, as Mr. Xi watched. The Chinese leader hailed its breed as “messengers and witnesses to the friendship of the two nations.” The state news media reported that the horse also knelt before the Chinese president at the ceremony, which was held at the 2014 International Akhal-Teke Horse Association Special Conference in Beijing.
在有关周一访问活动的照片上，这匹油光锃亮的马在习近平主席的观看下，咀嚼着土库曼斯坦总统库尔班古力·别尔德穆哈梅多夫(Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow)递给它的胡萝卜。中国领导人称赞这匹马是“中土友谊的使者和两国人民世代友好的见证。”国家新闻媒体报道，在赠送仪式上，这匹马在中国国家主席面前跪下，仪式是2014世界汗血马协会在北京的特别大会(International Akhal-Teke Horse Association Special Conference)上举行的。
The long-legged animal, whose name was not revealed, originated in what is now Turkmenistan and traces its long lineage to the Ferghana horses once prized by  Emperor Wudi of the Han dynasty. The Akhal-Teke breed is a national emblem in Turkmenistan, and the horses have customarily been presented as gifts by Turkmen leaders to their Chinese counterparts.
报道没有披露这匹马的名字，它源于如今的土库曼斯坦，该马的长远种系可以追溯到曾深受汉武帝喜爱的大宛马。这个阿克哈－塔克(Akhal－teke)品种的马是土库曼斯坦的国家标志，一直是土库曼斯坦领导人向中国领导人赠送的传统礼物。
The horses are bred for endurance and have a distinctive coat that often appears metallic under light. In China, they are also referred to as han xue — or “sweats blood” — horses, a name derived from the myth that the animals sweat blood when they moved. Scholars say that this notion may have originated because of blood-sucking parasites or burst blood vessels.
人们培育这种马选择的是其耐力，它们有独特的皮毛，在光线下常常会闪现出金属光泽。在中国，它们也被称为“汗血马”，这个名称源于一种传说，传说中这种马在奔跑时会流出汗血。学者认为，这个说法可能起源于马身上的吸血寄生虫或血管破裂。
The Central Asian breed gained fame in history as a warhorse. Both Alexander the Great and Ghenghis Khan chose it as their mounts. The Emperor Wudi was so taken with the breed that he started a war to obtain the horses.
这种中亚马在历史上以战马著称。亚历山大大帝(Alexander the Great)和成吉思汗(Ghenghis Khan)都曾将这种马选作自己的坐骑。汉武帝曾对这种马十分着迷，为获得这种马发动了一场战争。
The Ferghana Valley, where the horses originated, was occupied at the time by a kingdom called Dayuan. When the Chinese emperor heard of the famed steeds, he tried to buy them, sending a delegation thousands of miles. But the Dayuan king killed the Chinese envoys and pocketed the gold.
这种马产自费尔干纳盆地，当时那里被一个叫做大宛的王国占据。汉武帝听说了这些著名的骏马之后，派使者不远万里前来企图购买。但大宛国国王杀死了使者，将他们带来的黄金据为己有。
Not to be deterred, Emperor Wudi sent troops against the Dayuan Kingdom, seized thousands of horses and penned a poem to celebrate the victory, called “The Ode to the Heavenly Horse,” according to the Japanese National Institute of Informatics, citing Chinese historical documents.
这未能打消汉武帝的念头，他派军队攻打大宛国，并擒获了数千匹骏马，还赋诗《天马歌》以庆祝胜利，据日本国立情报学研究所(Japanese National Institute of Informatics)引用中国史料记载说。
The poem reads: The heavenly horses have arrived from the Western frontier. Having traveled 10,000 li, they bring great virtue. With loyal spirit, they defeat foreign nations. And as they cross the floating sand dunes, all barbarians succumb in their wake.
诗的内容如下：天马来兮从西极，终万里兮归有德。承灵感兮降外国，涉流沙兮四夷服。
Mr. Xi was the latest Chinese president to receive the horse. President Jiang Zemin was given a horse when he visited Turkmenistan in 2000, and President Hu Jintao received one in 2006.
习近平是受赠这种马的最近一位中国领导人。前任国家主席的江泽民在2000年访问土库曼斯坦时曾获赠一匹汗血马，前任国家主席胡锦涛也曾在2006年获赠一匹汗血马。
With their colorful history, Akhal-Teke horses continue to enjoy prestige in China and can command millions of dollars at auctions.
由于其丰富多彩的历史，阿克哈－塔克马在中国一直享有尊贵的地位，在拍卖会上可得到上百万美元的高价。
Reignwood Group, a Chinese conglomerate based in Beijing that has eight Akhal-Teke horses in its polo club, says they are worth as much as $10 million each.
位于北京的中国华彬集团马会养有8匹阿克哈－塔克马，该集团称他们的马每匹价值1000万美元（相当于6230万元人民币）。
One reason for the horses’ high value is their relative scarcity. It is estimated that there are fewer than 6,000 worldwide.
这种马价格高的一个原因在于其稀有。估计世界各地现有的汗血马数量不足6000匹。
The horse presented to Mr. Xi will join two others of the same breed at the National Hanxue Baoma Breeding Center in Tianjin, China Daily reported.
《中国日报》报道称，送给习近平的这匹汗血马将加入到另外两匹汗血马的行列，一起放在位于天津的国家汗血宝马中心饲养。
But the animal was not the only prize. During Mr. Berdimuhamedow’s trip, China and Turkmenistan signed a series of deals involving agriculture, finance and, crucially, natural gas.
但是，这匹马并不是别尔德穆哈梅多夫带来的唯一大礼。在他访华期间，中国和土库曼斯坦签署了一系列协议，涉及农业、金融，以及关键的天然气等领域。
China is the biggest customer for natural gas from Turkmenistan, and aims to import 65 billion cubic meters of the fuel annually from its trading partner by 2016, the state-run news agency Xinhua reported.
国家通讯社新华社报道说，中国是土库曼斯坦天然气的最大进口国，预计到2016年，中国每年将从这一贸易伙伴国进口650亿立方米的天然气。