NEW DELHI — India’s new prime minister, Narendra Modi, celebrated his 64th birthday on Wednesday by hosting President Xi Jinping of China in his home state, Gujarat, as the leaders of Asia’s two giants laid the foundation for a relationship that will carry huge stakes for both countries.
新德里——周三，在自己64岁生日当天，印度新任总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)在家乡古吉拉特邦招待了中国国家主席习近平，在此期间，两个亚洲大国的领导人为一段对两国都意义重大的关系奠定了基础。
The visit is the first by a Chinese president to India in eight years. China has the ability to channel billions of dollars into Indian infrastructure and manufacturing projects, allowing Mr. Modi to pursue the jobs-creation agenda that was at the heart of his campaign. China needs calm on its southwestern border to offset tense relationships with Japan, Vietnam, the Philippines and the United States. State-run Chinese newspapers have lavished praise on Mr. Modi, implying that he has the potential to set India on a trajectory of economic growth similar to the one that China has followed. But those interests are balanced by deep mistrust on security matters.
这是中国国家元首八年来首次访问印度。中国有能力为印度基础设施和制造业项目提供数以十亿计的投资，这将帮助莫迪落实制造就业的议程，也就是他的竞选议程的核心。与此同时，中国需要确保西南边境的安宁，全力应对与日本、越南、菲律宾和美国的紧张关系。中国官方报纸大力赞赏了莫迪，暗示他有望把印度带入中国式的经济增长轨道。但尽管有上述利益关切，两国在安全问题上却存在着严重的不信任。
Even as India prepared an opulent riverfront dinner for Mr. Xi in Gujarat this week, troops and slogan-chanting civilians were facing off along the disputed border between China and India, where the two countries fought a brief war in 1962. India has discussed improving maritime cooperation with Australia and Japan and proposed tighter defense and energy ties with Vietnam — all moves that could be seen as a challenge to China. Meanwhile, China is building ports and other facilities throughout South Asia, implementing a strategy called the “string of pearls,” which India views warily.
就在本周，当印度在古吉拉特邦为习近平准备丰盛的河边晚宴时，在中印争议边境，一些士兵和喊着口号的平民正在发生对抗。两国1962年曾在这里爆发过短暂的战争。印度已经讨论了与澳大利亚和日本海军强化海上合作的计划，并提出与越南建立更紧密的防务和能源合作——这些举动都可以被视作对中国的挑战。与此同时，中国正在南亚海域兴建港口等设施，即所谓的“珍珠链”战略，这已经引发了印度的警觉。
M. J. Akbar, a spokesman for Mr. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, said the new government would assert India’s role as a leading power in the region without fear of irritating China.
莫迪所在的印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)的发言人M.J.阿克巴尔(M.J.Akbar)称，新政府将强化印度作为地区主导大国的地位，不会害怕激怒中国。
“I think that China doesn’t respect you unless you respect yourself,” Mr. Akbar said, adding, “I think China is very clear that no element of confrontation should escalate to the point of hostility, because it knows that its economic project is still far from complete.”
“我认为除非你尊重自己，否则中国就不会尊重你，”阿克巴尔说。他接着说，“我认为中国非常清楚，对抗的元素不应该升级为冲突，因为它知道自己的经济计划远没有完成。”
In a departure from custom, the Chinese leader’s three-day visit began not in the Indian capital, but in Ahmedabad, the financial hub of Gujarat, where Mr. Modi was the chief minister. Mr. Modi and Mr. Xi, both wearing traditional Indian vests, visited Mohandas K. Gandhi’s ashram. They then wandered along the Sabarmati Riverfront, a project championed by Mr. Modi that involved bulldozing sprawling slums and replacing them with a modernist concrete promenade.
习近平打破了惯例，把为期三天的访问的起点定在了古吉拉特的金融中心艾哈迈达巴德，而不是印度的首都。莫迪曾经担任古吉拉特邦的首席部长。他和习近平穿着传统的印度坎肩，游览了莫罕达斯·K·甘地(Mohandas K. Gandhi)的修行地，随后沿着萨巴尔马蒂河散步。萨巴尔马蒂河项目是莫迪力主建设的，拆除了大片贫民窟，修建了宽阔而现代的混凝土大道。
On Thursday in New Delhi, the two are expected to sign pacts pledging Chinese investment in Indian projects. Officials have suggested that the investments could amount to about $100 billion, nearly three times the amount pledged by Japan this month.
预计两人将于周四在新德里签署若干有关中国对印度项目投资的协议。官员们表示，这些投资的总规模可能是1000亿美元左右，是本月日本承诺的投资数额的近三倍。
In a commentary published on Wednesday in The Hindu, a daily newspaper, Mr. Xi argued for closer economic cooperation between China and India, which he described as “the world’s factory” and the “world’s back office.” He said China could help India improve its infrastructure and manufacturing base and open Chinese markets to Indian pharmaceuticals and Internet technology — a move that could narrow a $30 billion trade imbalance between the two countries.
习近平周三在《印度教徒报》(The Hindu)发表评论文章称，他支持中印建立更加紧密的经济合作关系，他称印度是“世界工厂”和“世界办公室”。他表示，中国可以帮助印度完善基础设施和生产基地，欢迎印度制药及网络技术服务公司开拓中国市场，此举可能会缩小中印两国300亿美元的贸易差额。
In an editorial in Global Times, a Chinese policy analyst said Indian support was essential because three-quarters of China’s imported oil passes through the Indian Ocean.
《环球时报》发表的社论中，一名中国政策分析人士称，印度的支持变得必不可少，因为中国四分之三的进口石油通过印度洋进入中国。
“For a long time, South Asia has been a weak link in China’s peripheral diplomacy,” wrote the analyst, Zhao Minghao, an adjunct fellow with the Center for International and Strategic Studies at Peking University. Warm relations between South Asian governments and Washington and Tokyo “sound an alarm for Beijing,” he wrote.
北京大学国际战略研究中心研究助理赵明昊写道，“在很长一段时间里，南亚一直是中国周边外交的薄弱环节。”他还写道，南亚各国政府与华盛顿及东京的友好关系“为北京敲响了警钟”。
“Compared with the U.S. and Japan, China shows more understanding of the urgent needs of South Asian countries for an economic boost,” he wrote.
他写道，“对于南亚国家对经济增长的迫切需求，与美国、日本相比，中国表现出更多理解。”
Since taking office in May, Mr. Modi has surprised many by making foreign policy a major focus, often taking unexpected risks, like inviting Pakistan’s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to attend his swearing-in. After early visits to neighboring Bhutan and Nepal, he spent five days as the guest of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan.
自今年5月开始执政以来，莫迪将外交政策当做重点，令很多人感到震惊。他经常冒险，令人意想不到，比如邀请巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)参加他的宣誓就职典礼。他早些时候访问了邻国不丹和尼泊尔，之后，在日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的邀请下对日本进行了为期五天的访问。
Mr. Modi’s diplomatic campaign will culminate with a visit to the United States at the end of this month. The United States has had little opportunity to build a relationship with Mr. Modi, largely because it revoked his visa after sectarian riots broke out in Gujarat under his administration in 2002, leading to more than 1,000 deaths. The United States also lacks the economic leverage of China and Japan, which can deliver major investments to India. The United States can, however, support projects that matter to Mr. Modi, like the development of so-called smart cities and the manufacture of American-designed weapons in India. Also, the United States is closely allied with Japan and can play a balancing role in maritime security disputes with China, a subject that is clearly on Mr. Modi’s mind.
莫迪将于本月底访问美国，他的外交活动也将达到顶峰。美国几乎没有机会与莫迪建立关系，这在很大程度上是因为2002年在莫迪领导古吉拉特邦期间，该邦发生了宗派暴乱，导致1000多人死亡，美国因此撤消了他的签证。美国缺少中国及日本所拥有的经济杠杆，不像它们可以对印度大举投资。但美国可以支持对莫迪十分重要的计划，比如发展所谓的智能城市，在印度制造美国设计的武器。美国与日本建立了密切的盟友关系，能在与中国的海上安全纠纷中发挥协调作用。而这种纠纷显然在莫迪考虑之内。