How many Nashville stalwarts does it take to keep Taylor Swift in country music? That’s the question that was asked again and again at the 47th annual Country Music Association Awards on Wednesday night.
要有多少纳什维尔高手帮忙，才能把泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)留在乡村音乐界？在周三晚（11月6日——译注）的第47届年度美国乡村音乐协会奖(Country Music Association Awards)上，这个问题一再被人提起。
Is it five, the number that performed her song “Red” with her, a group that included the genre consciences Alison Krauss and Vince Gill as well as the highly regarded mandolinist Sam Bush? Is it eight, the number of genre superstars — Tim McGraw, Faith Hill, Keith Urban, George Strait, Brad Paisley, the members of Rascal Flatts — who assembled onstage to bestow upon Ms. Swift the Pinnacle Award, a prize that had only been given once before, to Garth Brooks? Or is it 6,000, the approximate number of voting members of the Country Music Association, who perhaps collectively understand that, without awards like this, Ms. Swift may leave them all behind for good?
或许需要五个人，也就是和她一起演出她的《红》(Red)这首歌的伴奏乐队人数，阵容中既有业界良心艾莉森·克劳斯(Alison Krauss)和文斯·吉尔(Vince Gill)，也有备受好评的曼陀林演奏家山姆·布什(Sam Bush)。又或许是八个，也就是在她接受平纳克尔奖(Pinnacle Award)时为她伴奏的那些乡村音乐界超级巨星们——蒂姆·麦格罗(Tim McGraw)、菲斯·希尔(Faith Hill)、基思·厄本(Keith Urban)、乔治·史崔特(George Strait)和布拉德·佩斯利(Brad Paisley)，以及“弗拉特流氓”(Rascal Flatts)的全体成员——要知道这个奖此前只曾经颁发给加斯·布鲁克斯(Garth Brooks)。又或者是6000个，也就是乡村音乐协会(Country Music Association)的大致成员数字，他们或许一致认为，要是不给斯威夫特颁奖，她就会永远离开他们。
Remember when the sugar-sweet Ms. Swift was the biggest threat at country music’s doorstep? That was just a few years ago, when the notion that a teenage blond female star could remake the genre was perceived as both a delusion and an affront. Now it’s a fait accompli, and the only way for country music to respond to her — and for her to engage with country music, a dance partner she now only sometimes favors — is to fete her endlessly, to let her be serious in addition to frilly, to weave her even more tightly into the fabric of Nashville.
还记得当年斯威夫特曾被视为对乡村音乐的最大威胁吗？那不过是几年前的事。在那时，一个十几岁的金发乡村女明星可以重新定义这个音乐类型，这种想法被视为荒谬和侮辱。如今这已经成了既成事实，她只是把乡村音乐当做有兴致时的舞伴，乡村音乐对她唯一的回应，也是唯一让她留在这种音乐中的办法，就是无休止地向她致敬，让她在花枝招展的同时保持严肃，把她更紧密地卷入纳什维尔的世界。
And so, even though apart from the Pinnacle, Ms. Swift didn’t win any major awards at this show — she shared in two smaller ones — the night was still built around her. She is country music’s cash cow, its creative engine, its ambassador to the wider world. And besides, there are more insidious incursions to address.
那天，斯威夫特虽然除了平纳克尔奖外没能获得其他大奖（她与其他人共同获得了两项小奖），当晚还是精心围绕她设计。她是乡村音乐的摇钱树和创意引擎，也是乡村音乐的驻外大使。此外，这个音乐类型还要提防更阴险的入侵。
Most of the rest of this show, which was broadcast live on ABC from the Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, showed a genre in the act of sorting out where it stands in the broader pop economy. It featured its established frat wing, which has become a home for tepid hip-hop hybridization, as seen in the show-opening medley of Luke Bryan’s “That’s My Kind of Night” and Florida Georgia Line’s “Cruise.” Florida Georgia Line, an odorless, flavorless duo, won two awards, vocal duo of the year and single of the year.
这场演出在纳什维尔的普利斯通大剧场举行、由美国广播公司(ABC)现场直播。整场演出其余大部分时间里，都在展示乡村乐这种在流行经济中独具一格的音乐类型。它的特点是同别的音乐类型奠定了密切的联系，与比较温和的hip-hop音乐杂交，这可以在演出开场时卢克·布莱恩(Luke Bryan)带来的《这是我喜欢的夜晚》(That’s My Kind of Night)和“佛罗里达与佐治亚边界线”(Florida Georgia Line)的《巡游》(Cruise)中听出来。“佛罗里达与佐治亚边界线”是一支平淡无味的二人组，获得了年度人声二人组与年度单曲两项大奖。
Serving as an implicit reply to this lightweight movement was Eric Church, who debuted an aggrieved new song, “The Outsiders,” and who only moves closer to country’s center the more he complains about it. The genial roots outfit Zac Brown Band tested out a restless, muscled new song, “Day for the Dead.” Even Mr. Bryan tried to distance himself from the cotton candy of his own making with an invested performance, aided by the rising singer Chris Stapleton, of “Drink a Beer,” an anthem about loss.
作为对这个平淡结果的回应，埃里克·彻奇(Eric Church)首次演出了一首哀伤的新歌《局外人》(The Outsiders)，事实上，他愈是抱怨自己远离乡村乐的中心，他离这个中心就又近了一步。温和的根源组合扎克·布朗乐队(Zac Brown Band)尝试了一首不安而强悍的新歌《亡者之日》(Day for the Dead)。就连布莱恩也试着远离自己的棉花糖风格，带来一场十分投入的演出，演唱了《喝杯啤酒》(Drink A Beer)，由新星克里斯·斯坦普莱顿(Chris Stapleton)助阵。
During this show, in which performances outpaced awards by about two to one, that was one of a handful of affecting moments. There was also the celebration of George Jones, who died in April, by Alan Jackson and Mr. Strait, two of Nashville’s reigning elders and two of its most mannered personalities, who sang an uncommonly naked version of “He Stopped Loving Her Today.” Kenny Rogers received a warm tribute from Rascal Flatts, Jennifer Nettles and Darius Rucker. And song of the year was won by the deeply moving “I Drive Your Truck,” sung by Lee Brice and written by Jessi Alexander, Connie Harrington and Jimmy Yeary.
整场演出中，表演节目比颁奖多出大约一倍，布莱恩的演出是少数几个感人的时刻之一。此外还有对4月去世的乔治·琼斯(George Jones)的纪念，由艾伦·杰克逊(Alan Jackson)和史崔特带来，他们都是乡村音乐界具有举足轻重地位的资深歌手，也是最神秘的两个人，他们带来了格外坦诚的一曲《他今天不再爱她》(He Stopped Loving Her Today)。“弗拉特流氓”、詹妮弗·奈特斯(Jennifer Nettles)和达利乌斯·拉克尔(Darius Rucker)温情地翻唱了肯尼·罗杰斯(Kenny Rogers)的歌曲。本年的年度歌曲由深沉感人的《我开着你的卡车》(I Drive Your Truck)获得，它由李·布莱斯(Lee Brice)演唱，由杰西·亚历山大(Jessi Alexander)、康妮·哈林顿(Connie Harrington)和吉米·耶里(Jimmy Yeary)创作。
The married couple Blake Shelton and Miranda Lambert continued their dominance in the male and female vocalist of the year categories, each winning for the fourth year straight. (Mr. Shelton also won album of the year.) Mr. Strait won entertainer of the year, the night’s top award, though it felt like a charitable gift for an artist staring down his twilight. Among the performances, there was elegant power country from Mr. Paisley, the Band Perry and the duo of Ms. Lambert and Mr. Urban. And Carrie Underwood sang a characteristically electric and overwhelming medley. On the sleepy side were Mr. McGraw, Lady Antebellum, Hunter Hayes with Jason Mraz, and Little Big Town, which won vocal group of the year.
布莱克·谢尔顿(Blake Shelton)和米兰达·兰伯特(Miranda Lambert)夫妇继续着他们在年度男女人声组合奖项的统治地位，连续第四年获得该奖。谢尔顿还获得了年度专辑奖。乔治·史崔特获得了年度艺人奖，这是当晚的最大奖项，尽管它有点像赠给暮年艺人的慈善礼品。在所有演出中，有布拉德·佩斯利(Brad Paisley)、佩里乐队(Band Perry)和兰伯特与厄本二人组带来的优美强劲的乡村乐，也有凯莉·安德伍德(Carrie Underwood)带来的个性电声和势不可挡的混合风格。蒂姆·麦格罗、安塔贝伦姆女士(Lady Antebellum)、亨特·海耶斯(Hunter Hayes)与杰森·姆拉兹(Jason Mraz)以及“小小的大镇子”(Little Big Town)带来温和的一面。“小小的大镇子”获得年度最佳声乐组合奖。
The show was hosted as usual by Mr. Paisley and Ms. Underwood, whose opening comedy routine, with its musical numbers about country-star squabbles and Obamacare, was far more charming than most award-show banter. They also directed a few cheap shots at Miley Cyrus, who is continuing her reign as 2013’s most razz-able celebrity. But don’t forget that in this crowd, Ms. Cyrus isn’t just a scourge, she’s also a prodigal daughter. Had she played her cards differently, she could have been Ms. Swift.
演出同以往一样，由佩斯利和安德伍德主持，先是以喜剧的方式开场，有各种音乐短剧，讽刺乡村乐界的争吵和奥巴马医改方案，这比颁奖过程中说的大多数笑话要有趣多了。他们还炮制了几个针对麦莉·塞勒斯(Miley Cyrus)的廉价攻击，塞勒斯是2013年最受嘲笑的名人，这个势头一直保持下去。但是别忘了，在这群人心目中，塞勒斯不仅仅是个嘲笑对象，她还是天才的女儿（这里指她的父亲，著名乡村歌手Billy Ray Cyrus——译注），如果她运作得当，本来可以成为另一个斯威夫特。
For now, at least, Ms. Cyrus is a contagion, and Nashville loves to attack en masse. But it has limited powers. It never neutralized Ms. Swift, who had six nominations, the most of the night and the same number as the rookie Kacey Musgraves, whose songs about the beauty of tolerance and the hypocrisy of intolerance have given country music a ripple of progressivism this year.
如今，塞勒斯至少是一个污染源，是纳什维尔群起而攻之的对象。但纳什维尔的势力有限——它永远不会抵制斯威夫特，她今年获得了六项提名，是当晚获得提名最多的艺人，与新人凯西·马斯格雷夫斯(Kacey Musgraves)并列。马斯格雷夫斯的歌唱的是宽容之美，以及心胸狭隘者的虚伪，这些歌为今年的乡村乐带来了一丝进步主义色彩。
It was a tough night for Ms. Musgraves. During her performance of “Follow Your Arrow,” her lyric about rolling a joint was bleeped out. And she lost in five categories; the cameras caught her with a deeply dissatisfied look as Ms. Lambert accepted the award for best female vocalist. But she did win new artist of the year, and maybe that’s not such an inauspicious start. Back in 2007, when that prize was called the Horizon Award, it was taken home by Ms. Swift.
对于马斯格雷夫斯来说，那天晚上异常艰苦。她演唱了《跟随你的箭》(Follow Your Arrow)这首歌，其中关于抽大麻的歌词现场被屏蔽了。此外她还在五项提名中失利。当兰伯特获得年度最佳女歌手时，摄像机捕捉到她脸上露出的极为不服的神情。但她获得了年度最佳新人奖，这也许并不算什么不幸的开端。2007年，当这个奖还名叫“地平线奖”时，获奖的正是斯威夫特。