BITS AND PIECES
《零零碎碎》(Bits andPieces) Written and illustrated by Judy Schachner. 32 pp. Dial. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 3 to 5)
图文：朱迪·沙克纳(Judy Schachner)32页，Dial出版社，17.99美元（绘本；适合年龄3至5岁）
“For a cat, Tink was an odd duck,” Schachner begins, in the clever, joking voice of her Skippyjon Jones books. Seen in Schachner’s fuzzy, soft-toned pictures, Tink, a bat-eared kitty with a brain “the size of a frozen pea,” goofs around at home, licking the butter and generally getting into mischief. After a lifetime of hankering for the outdoors, he finally slips through the door and gets the adventure he’s been yearning for. There’s a lot more to it, and it’s a delight from start to finish.
“汀克是猫里的怪家伙，”沙克纳的书这样开头，这本书和她的斯基皮约·琼斯(Skippyjon Jones)系列一样，有着聪明戏谑的口吻。汀克是一只耳朵很大的猫，脑子“只有冻豌豆那么大小”，他在家里整天乱跑，舔吃黄油，搞恶作剧。他一直都想出去逛逛，终于有机会溜出门，开始他渴望已久的冒险。他可有很多事要做，全书从始至终令人愉悦。
CAPTAIN CAT 
《猫船长》
Written and illustrated by Inga Moore. 48 pp. Candlewick Press. $15.99. (Picture book; ages 3 to 7)
图文：因加·摩尔(Inga Moore)48页，Chandlewick出版公司。15.99美元（绘本；适合年龄3至7岁）
Captain Cat just can’t say no to a furry face: his ship, the Carlotta, has more cats aboard than sailors. One day a storm blows him clear off the charts. The island where he lands has an exuberant teenage queen and a dreadful infestation of rats; Captain Cat’s feline cargo is suddenly very valuable. Moore’s detailed crosshatched pictures — in a style familiar from her illustrations for “The Wind in the Willows” and “The Secret Garden” — add charm to this warmhearted story.
猫船长对毛茸茸的脸儿完全没有抵抗力：他的船卡洛塔号上的猫比船员还多。有一天，风暴令他的船迷失了方向。他在一座岛上登陆，岛上有一位活泼的年轻女王，但是鼠患猖獗；猫船长的猫船员们顿时身价百倍。摩尔精细的交叉阴影图与她为《柳林间的风声》(The Wind in the Willows)与《秘密花园》(The Secret Garden)配的插图很像，为这个热情的故事更增魅力。
MR. WUFFLES! 
《瓦弗斯先生！》(Mr. Wuffles!)
Written and illustrated by David Wiesner. 32 pp. Clarion Books. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)
图文：大卫·韦斯纳(David Wiesner)32页，Clarion Books出版公司，17.99美元（绘本；适合年龄4至8岁）
In this brilliant book, Wiesner (“Flotsam,” “Tuesday”) unleashes the dramatic visual storytelling that won him three Caldecott Medals. Mr. Wuffles, a house cat, has a silly name that belies his predatory nature. Uninterested in toys, he takes notice of a tiny spaceship. Alternating full-page illustrations with graphic-novel-like grids, Wiesner tells a tale of alien visitors and their ant allies. The dusty space under the radiator turns out to be the suburban equivalent of the Lascaux caves.
韦斯纳是《漂流物》(Flotsam)和《星期二》(Tuesday)等书的作者，在这本精彩的书中，他展现了充满戏剧性的图像叙事技巧，从而赢得了三项凯迪克大奖(Caldecott Medals)。瓦弗斯先生是一只家猫，他喜欢吹嘘自己的捕猎本领。他对玩具不感兴趣，却发现了一艘小小的太空船。书册在全页插图和分格的图文小说之间转换，讲述了一个外星访客与他们的蚂蚁联军的故事。暖气片下面遍布灰土的地方成了这个城郊住宅里的岩洞。
LOST CAT
《迷惘的猫》(Lost Cat)
Written and illustrated by C. Roger Mader. 32 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)
图文：C·罗杰·马德尔(C. Roger Mader)32页。Hughton Mifflin Harcourt出版公司。17.99美元（绘本；适合年龄4至8岁）
“Lost Cat,” Mader’s first book for children, is as handsome as the big-eyed tabby that stares out from its cover. The cat, bereft of her owner and searching for a new human to adopt, encounters a trucker, a motorcycle man and even a horse, all depicted from the cat’s low-to-the-ground perspective. Mader uses pastels to create his close-up illustrations; deep-hued woodland and sunset scenes communicate how big, mysterious and enticing the natural world is to this formerly housebound cat.
《迷惘的猫》是马德尔的第一本童书，封面上是一只花斑母猫，眼睛瞪得大大的，整本书都很漂亮。这只猫失去了主人，想找一个新的人类收养她。她遇到了一个卡车司机、一个骑摩托车的人，甚至还有一匹马，都是以这只猫贴近地面的视角来描绘的。马德尔用淡雅的色调画特写，用浓墨重彩勾勒森林和夕阳，以之前一直居留在家中的猫咪视角，带来一个庞大、神秘而又迷人的自然世界。
DRAT THAT CAT! 
《可恶的猫！》(Drat That Cat)
Written and illustrated by Tony Ross. 32 pp. Andersen Press USA. $16.95. (Picture book; ages 4 to 9)
图文：托尼·罗斯(Tony Ross)32页。Andersen Press USA出版公司。16.95美元（绘本；适合年龄4至9岁）
Suzy Cat has so much white fur she looks like a cross between a puli and Cousin Itt. Though beloved, she is no angel: she scratches a sofa to ribbons, piddles in Dad’s golf bag, bites Grandpa and pulls down the curtains. “Drat that cat!” resounds through the house — until Suzy decides to remind her humans just how much they really love her. Everything about this book feels British, from Ross’s slapdash drawings (not unlike those of Quentin Blake) to the family’s cozy house and unsentimental, madcap expressions. Enjoy with a cup of tea, real or imaginary.
苏西猫是一只白色长毛猫，有点像波利犬和卡通片里的Cousin Itt。尽管受到宠爱，她可不是什么小天使。她会把沙发挠成破布，在爸爸的高尔夫球包上撒尿，咬爷爷，撕扯窗帘。“可恶的猫”的叫声整天在家里回响——直到后来苏西决定提醒她的人类，他们到底有多爱她。整本书非常富于英国情调，从罗斯的简笔画风（有点像昆汀·布莱克[Quentin Blake]）到这个家庭舒适的房子，乃至疯狂而毫不伤感的表达方式。边看边来杯茶吧，真实的或想像的茶都好。