The Haslegrave brothers, who own a design firm called hOmE, have amassed an impressive collection of books and magazines. Anyone visiting their loftlike studio in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, will notice stray periodicals stashed in nooks and crannies, and volumes stacked in corners and lining makeshift shelves. Yet not a single proper bookend.
哈斯尔格雷夫(Haslegrave)兄弟经营着一家名为hOmE的设计公司。他们收集了一大堆的图书和杂志。不管是谁，只要来到他们位于布鲁克林格林波因特(Greenpoint)社区中那套类似跃层的单间公寓里，都会注意到有很多期刊杂志，东一本西一本地塞在角落里和缝隙中，还有一册册图书，堆在各处的墙角和临时拼起来的一排排架子上。可是却看不见一个合适的书立。
To be fair, Evan, 30, and Oliver, 33, have been occupied with other things, like designing restaurants (among them, Telepan Local in TriBeCa, Ramona in Greenpoint and a project for Stephen Starr in Philadelphia). Bookends were probably the last thing on their radar, although they were clearly in need of a few.
说句公道话，30岁的埃文(Evan)和33岁的奥利弗(Oliver)一直忙于其他事务，比如设计餐厅什么的（其中有翠贝卡社区[TriBeCa]的Telepan Local餐厅，格林波因特社区的Ramona餐厅，还有他们在费城[Philadelphia]为斯蒂芬·斯塔尔[Stephen Starr]做的一个项目）。所以书立在他们的雷达上可能是最微不足道的东西，虽然，他们毫无疑问得用上几个。
When this was pointed out to them, however, they embraced the challenge of finding interesting ones with typical fervor.
不过，一旦对他们指出这个问题，他们就热情洋溢地接受了这个“找到有趣书立”的挑战。
“The bookend is a way of adding something to your space that can be viewed as art,” Evan Haslegrave said.
“书立是一种可被看作艺术品的、点缀空间的方式，”埃文·哈斯尔格雷夫(Evan Haslegrave)说。
And bookends that aren’t just for holding up books — objects that were originally intended for another purpose — may help to keep the books in circulation, his brother said. “If you have bookends you don’t use for anything else, the books might sit dormant,” Oliver said. “But if you have to take that object away, it kind of forces you to take a book out, or re-evaluate.”
而且一些不只是立住书本才会用到的书立——原本有其它用途的一些物品，还可以让这些图书处于一种流通状态，他的兄弟说，“如果你拥有那种没有任何其它用途的书立，你的书就可能就会一动不动地待在原地，”奥利弗说，“但如果你得把书立拿走，多多少少就必须抽出一本书来，或着重新评估一番。”
The first items that came to mind were a small anvil and a bottle of Grand Mayan tequila. Encouraged to come up with other options that might appeal to a wider audience, they began at Luddite, the antiques shop across the street, where they found several equally unlikely possibilities.
他们首先想到的是个小铁砧，及一瓶Grand Mayan龙舌兰酒。但他们被要求，多想一些能吸引大众的选择，于是从街对面的Luddite古董店里开始寻找起来，并在那儿发现了几件同样不可思议的物品。
A finger sizer that looked like a bowling ball with a bunch of holes in it is an unconventional choice, Oliver admitted. “But it would be fun to pair with a collection of 10 books. Also, it’s the only bowling ball you would ever need.”
首先是个测量手指粗细的东西，看起来像个保龄球，上面有一堆洞眼。这是一种非传统的选择，奥利弗承认。“但与十本一组的书搭配起来，会很有趣。而且，你如果需要玩保龄球的话，只要这一个就行了。”
They also liked a pair of mismatched lighted vanity mirrors. As Evan said, “It adds another tier of light in a very elegant way.”
他们还喜欢一对不配套的带灯化妆镜。正如埃文所说，“这件物品以相当优雅的方式加上了一层照明。”
Online, they found a more conventional pair of L-shaped bookends by Waka Waka, from Sight Unseen. “The design is unparalleled,” Evan said.
通过网络，他们找到一对更传统的L形书立，由Waka Waka设计，来自Sight Unseen公司。“这件设计是无与伦比的，”埃文说。
Oliver added, “The simpler stuff is harder to do on almost every level.”
奥利弗补充道，“这件东西相对简单，却在各方面都更不好做。”
He was also excited about a piece of dendrite in quartzite from Evolution. “This is a naturally occurring pattern that happens to look like a prairie scene,” he said. “Just look at that horizon line: the fact that it exists naturally is amazing.”
他还对Evolution店里的一件包在石英岩中的树枝石（dendrite，又称假化石——译注）感到兴奋。“这是一种自然形成的图案，看上去恰似一幅大草原的景色，”他说，“你看那条地平线：竟然是天然形成的，这真令人惊讶。”
And they were both enthusiastic about a set of bronze cut-cube bookends by TOC Studio. Evan said, “It’s a wonderful materiality to introduce on a bookshelf, not to mention the feeling of a solid alloy.”
他俩都热衷于TOC Studio设计的一套青铜色切割立方体书立。埃文说，“这是件可以放在书架上对人介绍的好东西，更不用说那种十足的合金感觉了。”
Oliver countered, “It’s harder to bowl with, though.” 
奥利弗则反驳道，“不过，很难拿来当成保龄球打。”