Three designers discuss their work on recent book covers: first concepts that didn’t make the final cut, and then the cover as published.
三位设计师谈论他们最近设计的一些封面：没有选用的一些最初的想法以及最后出版的封面。
Joan Wong on the design for Evie Wyld’s “All the Birds, Singing” (Pantheon):
琼·王(Joan Wong)谈自己为埃维·怀尔德(Evie Wyld)的《所有的鸟儿在歌唱》（All the Birds, Singing，众神图书公司[Pantheon]出版）设计封面的过程：
“ ‘All the Birds, Singing’ is about a woman who lives in a farmhouse with only her dog and a flock of sheep to keep her company. Someone, or something, starts killing off her sheep, one by one. It’s a story about the potential suspects and her troubled past. We learn about how she ended up living in isolation, what she was trying to escape, and how she got the scars on her back.”
“《所有的鸟儿在唱歌》讲的是一个女人独自住在一个农舍里，只有一只狗和一群羊陪伴她。某个人或某个东西开始一只只杀死那些羊。这个故事讲述的是可能的嫌疑犯和她混乱的过去。我们后来慢慢知道她为何孤身独居，她想逃避什么，以及她背上的疤是怎么来的。”
“Working with images of farm life, I eventually settled on this cover of a sheep broken up into fragments. I was then told (and looking back on it, I agree) that it looked a little too lighthearted, because sheep are inherently funny-looking and the book has some pretty dark moments.”
“我从农场生活的形象上做文章，设计了这个封面，把羊的图片分割摆放。后来有人告诉我（现在回头看，我也同意这种看法），它看起来有点太轻快了，因为羊本身看起来就很好笑，而那本书中有一些相当黑暗的时刻。”
“In order to create some menace, I added a sharp-toothed wolf to the composition and I think the cover is much stronger for it.”
“为了创造出某种威胁，我加上了一只牙齿锋利的狼，我觉得这个封面因此强悍了很多。”
Oliver Munday on the design for Jack Devine’s “Good Hunting” (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux):
奥利弗·芒迪(Oliver Munday)谈自己为杰克·迪瓦恩(Jack Devine)的《完美捕猎》（Good Hunting，萨拉·克赖顿/法勒·斯特劳斯&吉鲁[Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux]出版社出版）设计封面的过程：
“We set up a photo shoot with Jack Devine and the wonderful photographer George Baier. Jack stressed that he didn’t want the banal sort of book jacket typically associated with biographies. We planned the shoot with that in mind, using heavy shadows and stylized lighting. You couldn’t ask for a better subject. Jack’s natural look holds equal parts wisdom and menace; the photos turned out brilliantly. ”
“我们请出色的摄影师乔治·贝尔(George Baier)为杰克·迪瓦恩拍照。杰克强调说他不想要那种俗套的传记封面。我们带着这个想法策划拍摄，采用浓重的阴影和艺术化的灯光。你再也找不到更好的拍摄对象了。杰克的表情本身既有智慧又有威慑力。照片的效果很好。”
“For the design I tried out a few of the different shots, paired with graphic elements from the ‘spy’ vernacular. The cover with the redacted type evoked the right things, but the treatment has been done before, and lacked originality.”
“在设计中，我试了几个不同的照片，搭配‘间谍’相关词汇的文字元素。带有删除文字的这个封面感觉很对，但是以前有过类似的封面，所以缺乏创意。”
“The comp with the stamp elements running along the right side felt too cluttered, foiling rather than complementing the photo.”
“这个封面把文字放在右侧，带有邮票和邮戳元素，感觉太杂乱，没有增强反而弱化了照片的效果。”
“We landed on something where Jack peers out from behind a matrix of dots, poised to strike. The severity of Jack’s look is front and center, while the graphic elements are secondary, serving as a frame.”
“最后我们选中了这个封面，背景是点形矩阵，杰克凝视的眼神泰然自若，有蓄势待发的感觉。杰克凝重的表情是重点，文字元素居于次要地位，相当于相框。”
Alex Robbins on the design for Barbara Ehrenreich’s “Living With a Wild God” (Twelve):
亚历克斯·罗宾斯(Alex Robbins)谈论自己为芭芭拉·埃伦赖希(Barbara Ehrenreich)的《和一位疯狂的上帝生活在一起》（Living With a Wild God，十二出版社[Twelve]出版）设计封面的过程：
“An initial design combined a handwritten title with a photograph l took while exploring some woods. This was the sketch from the first round of comps that was received well by the art director, Catherine Casalino. I was asked to push the idea further, using the emanating light within other designs.”
“最初的设计包括一个手写的书名和我在树林里探险时拍摄的一张照片。它是得到艺术总监凯瑟琳·卡萨利诺(Catherine Casalino)赞赏的第一批封面之一。她让我扩展这个概念，在其他设计中使用放射光。”
“This unused comp involved collecting nature elements from a local forest. I wanted to convey Ehrenreich’s fire-like visions, so l tried to pick up any red, orange or yellow tones. The forest elements burst out from the hand-painted lettering in the center of the composition. This was then photographed from above.”
“这个未被采用的设计包括我从附近的森林里搜集来的天然物品。我想传达埃伦赖希火热的视角，所以我尽量挑选红色、橙色或黄色的东西。森林元素以手绘字母为中心发散开来。然后从上方拍照。”