La Socelière is proof that a man’s castle can also be a home.
“女巫”(La Socelière)证明了，一个男人的城堡也可以是一个家。
The 17th-century chateau is so down-to-earth, in fact, that all four generations of the Laviani family go shoeless when they visit in the summer: Giuseppe, 82, and his wife, Giacomina, 77, who bought the place in 1999; their children, Ferruccio, 52, an architect based in Milan who is known for designing the 2003 Bourgie lamp, among other things, and Clara, 56; Clara’s husband, Antonio Fontana, 57, and their two daughters, Marta, 30, and Giulia, 23; and Marta’s 4-year-old daughter, Anita, the first great-grandchild.
实际上，这座17世纪的城堡是如此质朴，以至于在夏季造访城堡时，拉维亚尼家族的四代人可以光着脚走动，这四代人是82岁的朱塞佩(Giuseppe)和他77岁的妻子贾科米纳(Giacomina)，这对夫妇在1999年购买了这座城堡；他们有两个孩子，分别是52岁的费鲁奇奥(Ferruccio)和56岁的克拉拉(Clara)，费鲁奇奥是一名建筑师，住在米兰，因为设计2003款的Bourgie台灯和其他产品而得名；克拉拉的丈夫安东尼奥·丰塔纳(Antonio Fontana) 57岁，二人有两个女儿，分别是30岁的玛尔塔(Marta)和23岁的朱莉娅(Giulia)，玛尔塔的女儿阿妮塔(Anita) 4岁，是家中的第一个曾孙辈后代。
The first day you’re there, Ferruccio Laviani said: “Maybe you feel a little down, far from the real world. The mobile phone doesn’t work well. The Internet goes jumping. The TV channels to see are just five instead of the millions. But when you start to get used to it, you begin to learn to lie down on an armchair and open a book.”
费鲁奇奥·拉维亚尼(Ferruccio Laviani)说，在你抵达那里的第一日，“你也许会感到一点失落，这里离现实世界太远了。手机信号不好。互联网时断时续。你只能看到五个电视频道，而不是无数个 。然而，当你开始习惯这个环境时，你就会学会躺在扶手椅上，翻开一本书。”
He continued: “I fall asleep on the couch while I look out the window at the blue pure sky, and feel light breaths of fresh air coming from the half-closed shutters. I go along the Vendée River with a small rowing boat, or I find my sheep, especially the ram, Lambert, who is like a dog running to make me a party when I arrive.”
他继续说，“当我望向窗外，看着湛蓝的天空，感受着从半开的百叶窗轻柔渗入室内的清新空气，我会在长沙发上进入梦乡。我会泛舟于旺代河(Vendée River)，或者找到我的羊群，尤其是公羊兰伯特(Lambert)，当我到来时，他会像狗儿一样跑来跑去，围着我尽情地撒欢。”
It wasn’t their intention to buy a chateau. They wanted a house on the Riviera, but the Côte d’Azur was “too expensive for what you got,” Mr. Laviani remembers his father saying. So friends took them to see a fixer-upper in the Loire Valley.
购买一座城堡不是他们的本意。他们原想在蔚蓝海岸地区买一栋别墅，但拉维亚尼记得他的父亲说，法国蔚蓝海岸地区“房产太贵了，不值得。”于是朋友们带这家人去察看卢瓦尔河谷(Loire Valley)的一栋待修缮的房屋。
“When we crossed the threshold of the property the first time, we were catalyzed by the beauty and proportions of the house — she was beautiful, perfect,” he said. “Then we started to look into details. The roofs of the towers were collapsed. The rainwater that entered had created problems with the structure of the floors. The interior was decorated in a very cheap way. Electrical and water had to be redone. Heating existed in only half the house.”
他说，“当我们第一次跨过这座城堡的门槛时，就被它的美丽和宏伟气势打动了——它是漂亮的、完美的。然后，我们开始查看细节。塔楼的屋顶塌了。漏进来的雨水导致地板出现了结构问题。内部装修风格很廉价。水电线路必须重做。城堡里只有一半的房间有暖气。”
Nevertheless, the family loved the 9,000-square-foot home and its nearly 20 acres of forest, gardens and pasture. The senior Mr. Laviani bought it for about $500,000 and paid another $500,000 to restore it.
尽管如此，这家人还是爱上了这栋9000平方英尺（约合836平方米）的住宅，以及它附带的近20英亩（约合8公顷）的森林、花园和草场。老拉维亚尼花了大约50万美元买下城堡，又花了50万美元进行装修。
His son oversaw the project, working with various family members who agreed on what needed to be done: “Give dignity back to the house without overdoing it,” as Mr. Laviani put it. “The main thing was to make it ours as much as possible, to feel at ease, as if it was something that had always belonged to us.”
他的儿子负责监督装修工程，他和家人商量，就需要进行的改造达成一致，就像拉维亚尼所说的：“我们要在不过分装修的前提下，让这栋房子重获尊严。关键是要让它尽可能地成为我们的家、让我们悠然自得，就好像它从来就是属于我们的。”
First, they brought in carpenters, electricians and painters from Italy. Then came the furnishings: a mix of Italian and French antiques collected over the years and a few 20th-century sofas and chairs. Some pieces were valuable, like an 18th-century Savonnerie rug, but others were from flea markets. The humble is mixed with the high-end and “the layering creates an intimate place,” Mr. Laviani said. “If we had furnished the house in a ‘style,’ the result would be fake and showy.”
首先，他们从意大利请来了木匠、电工和油漆工。然后搬来家具：全家多年来收集的意大利和法国古董家具，还有几把20世纪的沙发和椅子。其中的一些家具身价不菲，比如18世纪的萨伏纳里(Savonnerie)地毯，但其它家具来自跳蚤市场。拉维亚尼说，便宜货和高档货混在一起，“这种混搭创造出了一个温馨随意的空间。如果我们以某种‘风格’来装修房子的话，那会产生虚假、华而不实的效果。”
Everyone now has a favorite room. Mr. Laviani’s is the Salotto Rosa, the former dining room he uses as a studio. His mother prefers the living room, where she does her mending on a purple sofa that sits on the Savonnerie rug.
现在，每个人都有一间自己喜爱的房间。拉维亚尼喜爱的房间名为萨洛托·罗莎(Salotto Rosa)，这里曾是饭厅，现在被他当成了工作室。他的母亲喜欢起居室，她坐在起居室的紫沙发上做修补的针线活，沙发下是萨伏纳里地毯。
As for the older Mr. Laviani, he likes to nap on a chaise longue in the corner of the living room overlooking the back park, where he can keep an eye out for cows or sheep ambling by.
至于老拉维亚尼，他喜欢在起居室角落的躺椅上打盹，眺望屋后的花园，在那里，他还能留意在花园里从容漫步的牛群或羊群。
“If the sheep are coming by, it’s because they are making a disaster and are eating up all the plants and the flowers,” Mr. Laviani said. “And my father screams.”
拉维亚尼说，“如果绵羊踱过来，那是因为它们要闯祸，啃光所有的植物和花朵。那时我的父亲就会咆哮。”