BALINESE BUNGALOW
巴厘岛小屋
$6.79 MILLION (21.8 MILLION RINGGIT) 
679万美元（2180万林吉特，约合人民币4244万元）
This sprawling Balinese-style home, with about 9,000 square feet of living space and about 3,000 square feet of outdoor space, was designed by the prominent Balinese architect Yoka Sara and built in 2002. The home was created by Indonesian artisans over the course of three years out of old-growth Indonesian teak, Palimanan stone and sandstone, with terra-cotta roof tiles, said Shirley-Ann Joseph, an agent with Zerin Properties, which has the listing. It has five bedrooms and five bathrooms spread out over four levels, one of them subterranean, she said. 
这栋巴厘岛风格的不规则住宅，拥有约9000平方英尺（约836平方米）的生活空间，以及大约3000平方英尺（278.7平方米）的户外空间，由杰出的巴厘岛建筑师约卡·萨拉(Yoka Sara)设计，2002年动工修建。据负责该房源的房地产公司Zerin Properties的一位经纪人雪莉-安·约瑟夫(Shirley-Ann Joseph)说，该房屋是由一些印尼工匠历时三年建造起来的，采用了古老的印尼柚木、帕里玛南石(Palimanan stone)和砂岩，还铺了陶瓦屋顶。她还说，这栋房屋有五间卧室和五间浴室，分置于上下四层之中，其中一层在地下。
Floor-to-ceiling doors slide open to the grounds, which include a swimming pool with jets, a patio and water gardens with a dipping pool. Most interior doors are solid carved teak, and flooring is teak or marble, including Carrara. While the home is being sold unfurnished, the lights are included in the asking price, and all the beds are on carved platforms that are also included, Ms. Joseph said.
几扇落地门一推开就是庭院，院中有一座带喷嘴的游泳池、一处露台，以及一片带一座浅水浴池的水景花园。室内的几扇门，大多用的是结实的雕花柚木，地板用的也是柚木，或含有卡拉拉石料(Carrara)的大理石。虽然这栋房屋不带家具出售，但灯具都包括在要价内。而且，所有床具都置于雕花地台上，这些地台也包含在要价内，约瑟夫说。
The main entrance is through an arched teak door with a facade of hand-carved leaves that leads into a double-height foyer with a towering white Palimanan-stone wall hand-carved on site with flowers and other motifs. On the right is a living room with teak crown molding and a curved ceiling covered in woven rattan mat, a signature design of the architect, Ms. Joseph said. Beyond the living room is the dining room adjacent to a Western kitchen with custom-made teak cabinetry, a Viking range and appliances by the New Zealand company Fisher & Paykel. From the dining room, stairs descend to a second kitchen for heavy-duty cooking with pungent spices — from its own herb garden right outside the door — as well as a gym and staff quarters.
这栋房屋的主入口是一扇拱形柚木大门，带有手工叶形雕花立面。大门通往一间两倍于房间层高的门厅，内有用帕里玛南石砌成的高耸墙壁，墙面上是手工雕刻的鲜花及其它主题。右边是一间客厅，带有柚木的顶冠饰条，和覆盖着编织藤垫的曲线形天花板。这是该建筑师的典型设计风格，约瑟夫说。客厅之外的餐厅，靠着一间西式厨房，厨房内有定制的柚木橱柜、一台Viking炉灶和新西兰斐雪派克(Fisher & Paykel)公司生产的一些电器。这间厨房里还有一段楼梯，可向下通往第二间厨房，那里专门用来处理一些会用到香辛料的重油烟烹饪。所用的香料，就来自屋外自种的香草园。这一层还包括一间健身房和几间佣人宿舍。
Off the home’s foyer is a guest bedroom with a private terrace that descends to a massage room and water garden. The guest bedroom has a conventional bathroom and an outdoor bathroom with lava stone and sunken bath and shower. Stairs off the foyer lead to the second floor, which has a family room, a second bedroom and the master suite. The master suite has 20-foot ceilings and a balcony with views of the surrounding hills. With many carved wooden embellishments, the master suite also has a teak wardrobe designed by an Italian cabinetmaker. The master bathroom has Italian-designed teak cabinetry and a cast iron bathtub, along with the ornate Kohler nickel-finished faucets that are found throughout the home’s bathrooms. There is also an exterior bath, shower and garden.
这栋房屋的门厅旁，是一间带有私人平台的客用卧室，该卧室向下通往一间按摩房和水景花园。这间卧室中有一间常规的浴室，和一间以火山岩石砌成的、带有下沉式浴池和淋浴的户外浴室。门厅外的楼梯通向二层，那里有一间家庭娱乐室、一间次卧及主卧。主卧有20英尺（约6米）高的天花板，和一座可观周围山景的阳台。除了许多雕花木构件外，这间主卧中还有一个由一位意大利橱柜制造者设计的柚木衣柜。在主卧浴室中，有意式风格的柚木橱柜和一只铸铁浴缸，还有一些华丽的镀镍科勒(Kohler)水龙头。这种水龙头在这栋房屋的所有浴室里都能找到。这一层也有一处户外浴室、淋浴房和花园。
The home’s third floor is a family room that could be converted to a bedroom. The space opens to the roof, which has an outdoor shower and stairs leading up to a large bale, or gazebo, and a rooftop swimming pool. The home sits on less than a third of an acre on a hilltop in western Kuala Lumpur and is landscaped with gardens of aromatic frangipani, evergreens and ponds with Arowana fish.
这栋房屋的三楼，是一间可改成卧室的家庭娱乐室。这里通往屋顶，那儿有一间户外淋浴房，还有几级楼梯通向一座大阳台或说露台，以及一座屋顶游泳池。这栋房屋坐落在吉隆坡(Kuala Lumpur)西边的一处山顶上，占地面积略少于三分之一英亩（约1335平方米），景观设计包括几座花园，里面有芬芳的赤素馨花(frangipani)、一些常绿灌木，还有几个养了龙鱼(Arowana fish)的池塘。
The fashionable Damansara Heights area, where the home is situated, is a 20-minute drive from central Kuala Lumpur. Originally a suburb developed for government employees several decades ago, the hilly neighborhood has grown increasingly pricey and exclusive in recent years, Ms. Joseph said. “Many older homes have been purchased and rebuilt into huge homes,” she said. “This suburb has attracted many politicians, corporate figures and royalty.”
这栋房屋的所在地，是新潮的白沙罗高地(Damansara Heights)，距吉隆坡市中心只有20分钟车程。这里最初是一片郊区，几十年前专为政府工作人员开发。近年来，这片半山社区不但越来越贵，而且越来越独特，约瑟夫说。“许多旧屋在购置后被重新建成了大宅，”她说，“这片郊区地带已经吸引了很多政要人物、公司首脑与皇室成员。”
While there are some local shops in Damansara Heights, most residents shop in neighboring Bangsar, which has malls, boutique shops and restaurants. Within a 15-minute drive of Damansara Heights are equestrian centers, golf courses, country clubs, international schools, parks and performing arts centers. Kuala Lumpur’s international airport is about 75 minutes away by car or a 30-minute ride on the train, Ms. Joseph said.
白沙罗高地虽然有许多本地商店，但大多数居民还是喜欢在邻近的孟沙区(Bangsar)购物，那里有许多商场、精品店和餐厅。从白沙罗高地开车15分钟可到达马术中心、高尔夫球场、乡村俱乐部、国际学校、公园和艺术表演中心。开车到吉隆坡的国际机场大约要75分钟；也可搭乘一趟火车，30分钟可到，约瑟夫说。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
After remaining largely unscathed by the 2008 global real estate crisis, the Malaysian real estate market has been on fire since about 2011, with prices increasing roughly 30 to 35 percent through 2013, said Siva Shanker, the president of the Malaysian Institute of Estate Agents. The government took some steps in 2012 to attempt to cool down the market, including implementing more restrictive lending standards and increasing real property gains tax, Mr. Shanker said.
马来西亚的房地产市场，在几乎毫发无损地度过了2008年的全球房地产危机后，大约从2011年起变得十分兴旺。整个2013年，这里的房产价格增长了大约30%至35%，马来西亚房地产经纪人协会(Malaysian Institute of Estate Agents)的主席希瓦·尚卡尔(Siva Shanker)说。2012年时，马来西亚政府已采取了一些措施，企图给房产市场降温，包括实施更加严格的贷款条件，以及增收房地产所得税，尚卡尔说。
“As a result of that, the number of transactions went down,” he said. “But strangely enough, home values still went up. And in 2013, that pattern repeated itself — the number of transactions fell by 10 percent, but values went up by 6 percent.”
“该措施的结果是，房地产交易的数量下降了，”他说，“但非常奇怪的是，房屋价值仍然在上涨。而到了2013年，那样的模式再次出现——交易量下跌了10%，房价却上涨了6%。”
Those trends are mostly being fueled by domestic home purchasers, many buying multiple homes, because foreign buyers make up only about 4 to 7 percent of the market, Mr. Shanker said. The trend of increasing prices is anticipated to continue, he said.
那些趋势，主要是由国内的住房买家推动的，因为国外买家在该市场中大约只占4%至7%。国内许多人都购置了多套房产，尚卡尔说。这种房价上涨的趋势有望持续，他说。
Many foreign purchasers disappeared from the market after the 2008 global real estate crisis, but Kuala Lumpur’s home prices tend to be lower than those in other large metropolitan areas in the Asia-Pacific region, so they haven’t disappeared altogether, Mr. Shanker said.
2008年全球房产危机后，许多国外买家都从市场中消失了；但吉隆坡的住宅价格同亚太地区的其它大都市相比，处于较低水平，所以这些买家并没有全部消失，尚卡尔说。
“If you compare apples to apples, we may be 30 to 40 percent behind Singapore, or maybe even a bit more,” he said. “And I think we’re easily 15 to 20 percent behind Jakarta and Bangkok.” Foreign buyers generally look for homes in Kuala Lumpur’s City Center, the state of Penang, a development zone called Iskander in Johor state, and the city of Kota Kinabalu in East Malaysia, said Herbert Leong, an associate director with Knight Frank Kuala Lumpur.
“如果你进行同等条件的对比，我们比新加坡低30%至40%，或可能更低一点，”他说，“而且我认为，我们轻而易举地比雅加达(Jakarta)和曼谷(Bangkok)低了15%至20%。”国外买家一般都在吉隆坡的市中心、槟榔屿(Penang)、柔佛州(Johor)一个名为伊斯坎德尔(Iskander)的开发区、以及马来西亚东部的哥打基纳巴卢市(Kota Kinabalu)找房源，吉隆坡莱坊国际(Knight Frank Kuala Lumpur)房地产公司的副主管赫伯特·梁(Herbert Leong)说。
“Most buy condos for investment,” enjoying the rental revenue and capital appreciation, he said. “Foreigners working in Kuala Lumpur also enjoy living in Mont Kiara, a suburb outside the city center, due to the presence of international schools.”
“大多数人购买共管公寓，都是为了投资，”可享有租金收入和资本增值，他说，“在吉隆坡工作的外国人也喜欢住在市区外一片名为Mont Kiara的郊区，因为那里有一些国际学校。”
Damansara Heights, where this home is situated, along with Kuala Lumpur’s established neighborhoods, such as Bangsar, Ampang Hilir, Valencia, Seputeh and Ukay Heights, are also popular with foreigners, said Previn Singhe, the principal of Zerin Properties.
这栋房屋的所在地白沙罗高地，与孟沙区(Bangsar)、安邦区(Ampang Hilir)、巴伦西亚区(Valencia)、士布爹区(Seputeh)和尤基高地区(Ukay Heights)等吉隆坡的一些成熟社区，都是外国人喜欢的地方，Zerin Properties公司的总裁普列文·辛格(Previn Singhe)说。
Luxury homes in Kuala Lumpur generally range from about $405 per square foot to $780 per square foot, with residences branded by such entities as Four Seasons or Ritz-Carlton costing even more, Mr. Leong said.
吉隆坡豪华住宅的价格区间，一般约为每平方英尺405美元（约合每平方米人民币27342元）至每平方英尺780美元（约合每平方米人民币52658元），像“四季”(Four Seasons)或丽思卡尔顿(Ritz-Carlton)这类品牌的住宅价格更贵，梁说。
Detached homes can range from about $1.4 million to upward of $6.2 million, depending on the quality and size of the home, the lot size, and the location, Mr. Singhe said.
独栋住宅的价格区间，大约从140万美元（约合人民币875万元）至620万美元（约合人民币3876万元）不等，具体取决于住宅的大小与质量、土地面积和位置，辛格说。