Five years ago, with the help of his parents, Brett Masterson bought a fixer-upper in Roxbury, Mass. The price was in the high $300,000s.
五年前，在父母的帮助下，布雷特·马斯特森(Brett Masterson)在马萨诸塞州的罗克斯伯里(Roxbury)买下一栋需要修缮的房子，花了30多万美元（约合183万元人民币）。
The gut renovation — of two three-bedroom duplexes in a brick semiattached house — took more than a year. Mr. Masterson and his fiancée, Amaranta Medina-Seabright, lived there during that time. They had a blast.
这栋半附联式的砖墙房屋内，包括两套带三间卧室的复式公寓，仅内部整修便花费了一年多的时间。在那期间，马斯特森和他的未婚妻阿马兰塔·梅迪纳-西布赖特(Amaranta Medina-Seabright)便住在那里。两人度过了一段非常美妙的时光。
“Oh, man, it was great,” said Mr. Masterson, who is 28. “I went to architecture school and learned more about building construction in the year I spent renovating than I did in all of my structures classes combined.”
“哦，伙计，这真是太棒了，”28岁的马斯特森说，“我是念过建筑学院，可我在课堂上学到的所有东西加在一起，都比不上那一年在装修过程中学到的多。”
The couple, who met as students at Syracuse University, “literally put a line of tape between our living space and the construction, and in Sharpie we wrote ‘work’ in one direction and ‘home’ in the other,” Ms. Medina-Seabright, 29, said. “So once we crossed that line, we were done.”
这对夫妇是在雪城大学(Syracuse University)念书时相识的。“我们在居住空间和施工部分间拉起一条带子，用三福(Sharpie)油性笔在一侧写上‘工作’(work)，在另一侧写上‘家’(home)，”29岁的梅迪纳-西布赖特说，“这样，什么时候我们越过那条线，也就大功告成了。”
Nearly two years ago, the couple rented out the duplex and moved to New York so Ms. Medina-Seabright could pursue a graduate degree in art therapy at Pratt Institute. They rented a ground-floor one-bedroom in Bedford-Stuyvesant with a big yard for Nina, their poodle. The rent, starting at $1,500 a month, rose to $1,600.
大约在两年前，夫妇俩出租了这栋复式公寓，搬到纽约，以便梅迪纳-西布赖特在普拉特学院(Pratt Institute)攻读一个艺术疗法的学位。他们在布鲁克林的贝德福德·斯图文森区(Bedford-Stuyvesant)租了间一居室的底层公寓。公寓还带一个大庭院，可供他们的贵宾犬尼娜(Nina)住。租金一开始是每月1500美元（约合9174元人民币），后来涨到了1600美元（约合9785元人民币）。
“I wanted to get out of the rental scenario as soon as possible,” said Mr. Masterson, who is now a project manager at Hecho, a design and construction company.
“我想尽快摆脱这种租房的生活，”马斯特森说。他现在是Hecho建筑设计公司的一名项目经理。
His preference was to buy a two- or three-family fixer-upper brownstone in the $400,000s in Bed-Stuy and rent out a unit or two. But the couple, uncertain that the right house would appear, also hunted for a one-bedroom apartment. For this the budget was less, up to $350,000, because there would not be rental income.
他打算花40万美元（约合244万元人民币），在贝德福德·斯图文森买一套需要修缮、可供两三个家庭居住的褐色砂石大宅。届时，夫妇俩打算出租其中一、两套单元。不过，他们不确定能否碰上合适的房子，所以同时也在物色一居室的公寓。不过这样一来，他们就没有房租收入了，预算就要降低，最多到35万美元（约合214万元人民币）。
A year ago, they visited a bright one-bedroom co-op in a gorgeous Art Deco building a bit farther afield, in Kensington. The listing price was $270,000; monthly maintenance was about $700. Mr. Masterson offered $240,000, but found out he didn’t meet the lender’s requirement for a minimum down payment because the building was not quite 50 percent owner-occupied. 
一年前，在较远的肯辛顿(Kensington)郊区，他们在一幢美妙的装饰艺术风格的建筑里，看了一套明亮的一居室合作公寓(co-op)。该房的挂牌价格为27万美元（约合165万元人民币），每月的物业费约为700美元（约合4281元人民币）。马斯特森报出24万美元（约合146万元人民币）的价格，却发现这还达不到贷款银行的最低首付要求，因为这栋房子的业主并未得到50%的产权。
The brownstone market was becoming ever more competitive. In a pretty house on MacDonough Street in Bed-Stuy, Mr. Masterson peeled back the wall-to-wall carpeting, finding beautiful mahogany floors. The asking price was $450,000. He offered $400,000, but another party matched that — in cash.
褐色砂石大宅的市场竞争越来越激烈。贝德福德·斯图文森的麦克多诺街(MacDonough Street)有栋漂亮房子。马斯特森剥开室内满铺的地毯，发现了下面漂亮的红木地板。该房要价45万美元（约合275万元人民币），他出价40万美元（约合244万元人民币），却有别人应了45万美元的要价，而且付的是现金。
The couple went to see a two-family house that was home to members of an extended family on Decatur Street in Bed-Stuy.
这对夫妇又去看了一栋两家共住式别墅。这栋房子在贝德福德·斯图文森的迪凯特街(Decatur Street)上，里面住着一大家子人。
“You could tell it was a tight-knit family because they had only one kitchen,” Mr. Masterson said. “They didn’t even bother using the top kitchen” — empty of appliances — “because they had family meals every night.”
“看得出，这户家庭成员间的关系十分亲密，因为他们只有一个厨房，”马斯特森说，“他们甚至连顶楼的厨房都懒得用——里面没什么设施，因为每天晚上，这一大家子人都在一块吃饭。”
His offer of $435,000 was accepted. But the sellers wanted to find a new place before they sold, and they didn’t.
他43.5万美元（约合266万元人民币）的出价被接受了。不过卖家想在房子出手前先找到一个新的住处，却未能如愿。
A large duplex with a backyard in a 10-unit condo on Chauncey Street in Bed-Stuy was in great condition. Mr. Masterson offered the asking price, $349,000, but the apartment was taken off the market.
贝德福德·斯图文森的昌西大街(Chauncey Street)上，有栋包含十个单元的大型分户式公寓楼，其中有间复式公寓的条件很好，要价34.9万美元（约合213.5万元人民币）。可是那间公寓又被下市了。
Mr. Masterson went to a “Buying Into Brooklyn” talk sponsored by Brooklyn Based at the Brooklyn Brewery, where he met Tina Fallon of Realty Collective. He contacted her the next day.
在布鲁克林酿酒厂，由Brooklyn Based赞助了一场名为“进驻布鲁克林”的对谈活动。马斯特森也去了。他在那里遇到了Realty Collective房产公司的蒂娜·法伦(Tina Fallon)。第二天，他便再次联系了她。
“He was looking for what so many other buyers were looking for — a fixer-upper,” Ms. Fallon said. “Their relationship had already survived a renovation. Some young couples are advised against the process, because it can be so difficult.”
“他要找的这种房子其他很多人也在找，那就是需要修缮的房子，”法伦说，“他们的关系已经经历过一次装修的考验。我们会建议一些年轻情侣不要经历这个过程，因为它可能会很困难。”
A possibility arose on Lexington Avenue in Bed-Stuy: a three-story house, listed at $479,000, with two giant evergreens in front. “It felt like somebody forgot to garden for a couple years and it was overgrown, which was kind of charming,” Mr. Masterson said. But it was for a single family, and “had some quirky things, not in a good way, that would have made it difficult to split it up into two separate units.”
他们似乎在贝德福德·斯图文森的莱克星敦大道(Lexington Avenue)找到了一点希望。那里有栋标价46.9万美元（约合286.9万元人民币）的三层住宅，屋前有两株高大的常绿植物。“那处花园就像两、三年没人打扫一样，植物有点儿过于茂盛了。不过，这也挺迷人的，”马斯特森说。但这栋房子只能住一家人，而且还“有些挺奇怪的地方，状况不佳，很难将它分成两个独立的单元”。
They saw photos of a postwar co-op near Pratt in Clinton Hill; drawn by its vistas of Manhattan, they attended an open house. A view was something they hadn’t considered. “I never put that in my search criteria,” Mr. Masterson said, “and when I first saw it, it was such a valuable component to the apartment.” The price was $289,000, maintenance around $700.
他们看到几张一栋战后合作公寓的照片。房子位于克林顿山(Clinton Hill)的普拉特(Pratt)附近。由于那里可以眺望曼哈顿的景致，他们在对外开放参观日被吸引了过去。此前他们从未考虑过景致问题。马斯特森说：“我从没把窗外的景色列入过考察范畴。但第一次看到那儿的风景我就明白了，它是那栋房子非常宝贵的一部分。”房子标价28.9万美元（约合177万元人民币），每月的物业费约为700美元（约合4281元人民币）。
The unit had only 560 square feet, “but the view made it so much bigger,” he said.
这个单元只有560平方英尺（约合52平方米）。他说：“但风景使它看起来大得多。”
Mr. Masterson offered $275,000. Then the appraisal came in low, at $250,000. So the price was renegotiated to $255,000.
马斯特森出价27.5万美元（约合168万元人民币）。而贷款评估机构给出的估价较低，为25万美元（约合152万元人民币）。因此，买卖双方在重新讨价还价后，以25.5万美元（约合156万元人民币）成交。
The deal closed in the spring. The board approved the couple’s renovation plans, and a demolition crew went in the next day. “Because it is so small,” Ms. Medina-Seabright said, “we can do a nicer renovation than we could afford to do if we had bought a house.”
房屋交割是在春天完成的。业主委员会同意了这对夫妇的改造计划，拆除小组第二天就来了。梅迪纳-西布赖特说：“因为它的面积非常小，所以我们就能对它做一次更好的装修。而如果我们买了一栋房子，可就负担不起了。”
The walls turned out to be solid plaster, “and not timber-frame construction like the brownstones are,” Mr. Masterson said. Some columns were exposed — so he changed the plans to better show them off.
结果他们发现，屋墙是结实的石膏板，“并非褐色砂石建筑那种木构架。”马斯特森说。有些柱子都露在外面了。所以他改变了计划，将它们更好地展示出来。
“It will be a Swiss Army Knife of an apartment,” he said. He’ll employ plenty of casters, so “if we don’t want the kitchen island to be there, we can push it over to the side. That is one of the exciting things about the apartment to me. It has really been a game of spatial Tetris, and we are trying to find ways to maximize the function.”
“它将成为一间瑞士军刀般的公寓。”他说。他会用上很多轮脚，这样，“如果我们不想把厨房岛台摆在那里，就可以把它推到一边去。这也是这套房子让我感到兴奋的一个地方。这简直成了一个立体的俄罗斯方块游戏，而我们正在想方设法最大限度发挥它的功能。”
Mr. Masterson bicycles to work, and stops by the new place every morning and evening. It is scheduled to be finished by month’s end.
马斯特森骑自行车上班，每天早晚都会顺便造访新居。按计划，整修将于月底完工。
“Brett lives for this,” Ms. Medina-Seabright said. “I enjoy it, too, and we are excited to live in Clinton Hill. This is probably the only way we could afford to buy in that neighborhood.”
“布雷特很享受这个过程，”梅迪纳-西布赖特说，“我也是。能住在克林顿山上真令人兴奋。或许，这是我们在附近唯一能买得起的房子了吧。”