When Gregory Speck opens the door to his Classic 6 apartment at the Beresford, an Emery Roth-designed co-op at 211 Central Park West, he greets guests with a Southern lilt: “Welcome to Animal House.”
格里高利·斯派克(Gregory Speck)住在贝雷斯福德大楼(Beresford)——也就是默里·罗斯(Emery Roth)在中央公园西211号设计的合作公寓。其户型是经典的六房公寓（Classic 6，包含一间正式的餐厅、一间客厅、一间厨房、两间卧室、一间小卧室，也叫佣人房——译注）。斯派克打开房门后，用抑扬顿挫的南方口音跟来宾打了个招呼：“欢迎来到动物之家(Animal House)。”
The two-bedroom two-bath, No. 3J, features a taxidermy collection that could fill a hall at the American Museum of Natural History next door. Mr. Speck is about to place the apartment on the market for $3.395 million; the animals are negotiable.
这套门牌号为3J的两室两卫公寓，是以大量动物标本为特色的。这些标本要是放到隔壁的美国自然历史博物馆(American Museum of Natural History)里去，可以摆满一间展厅。斯派克正打算将这套房子投放到市场，要价339.5万美元（约合人民币2105万元）；动物标本的处置问题可以协商。
On the walls of the entry gallery hang antelope heads and ducks on the wing. A black bear stands at full height next to a lamp. In the living room, there are stuffed turkeys, mounted elk heads and a cougar, baring teeth in front of the fireplace. A mute swan floats above a bed in one bedroom. A bison head that Mr. Speck found in a supermarket freezer in Virginia and had stuffed casts a watchful eye over the bed in another.
入口处的长廊墙上，挂着若干羚羊头和展开双翅的鸭子。一头黑熊两腿直立，站在一盏灯的旁边。在客厅里，壁炉前有几只塞入填充物的火鸡、几颗装裱好的麋鹿头，还有一头露着獠牙的美洲豹。在一间卧室里，一只疣鼻天鹅被放置在一张床的上方。另一间卧室里有一颗野牛头，那是斯派克在弗吉尼亚一家超市的冷冻柜里找到的。现在它已被塞入填充物，制成了标本。这头牛带着警惕的目光凝视着卧室里的床。
“He was the wooliest bully I had ever seen, so I called him Buffalo Bill,” said Mr. Speck, a New York socialite, celebrity journalist and author, who has lived at the Beresford for 36 years and has pictures of himself throughout the apartment posing with stars and high-society ladies, including Audrey Hepburn, Andy Warhol and the fashion designer Mary McFadden, whom he calls a close friend.
“它是我见过的毛发最多的野牛，所以我叫它‘野牛比尔’（此称号得名于美国历史上的陆军侦察兵科迪[Cody]，他因在8个月内捕杀4280头野牛而获得“野牛比尔”的绰号——译注）。” 斯派克说。作为纽约社交名流，也是知名记者和撰稿人，斯派克在贝雷斯福德住了36年，他的公寓里到处都放着合影。和他合影的都是些明星和上流社会的名媛，其中包括奥黛丽·赫本(Audrey Hepburn)、安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)和被他称为密友的时装设计师玛丽·麦克法登(Mary McFadden)。
A lifelong animal lover who dreamed of owning a zoo, Mr. Speck considers his taxidermy collection “an educational zoological display,” which he curated over the course of three years in the early 1990s, investing roughly $50,000 in his obsession.
作为终身的动物爱好者，斯派克曾梦想拥有一家动物园。他把自己收藏的标本视为“富有教育意义的动物学展览”。出于对动物的执迷，他在20世纪90年代初花了三年的时间，投资大约5万美元（约合人民币31万元），收集到了这些标本。
But marketing an apartment with such an eclectic collection can be tricky. Some buyers might be turned off by so many animal heads. Others may simply be too overwhelmed by the taxidermy to envision how the apartment would look without it. “To have it removed would be a big task,” said the listing agent, Robert Dowling of Halstead Property, who worked with the firm’s marketing team and came up with a virtual solution.
不过，由于房子里摆放着如此多样的藏品，这套公寓可能会变得难以销售。有些买家可能会被数量如此之众的动物头颅吓跑；还有些买家可能会被这些标本完全镇住，以至于无法想象屋子里没了标本之后会是什么样子。“把这些标本移走，会是一项大工程。” 卖方经纪人、霍尔斯特德房地产公司(Halstead Property)的罗伯特·道林(Robert Dowling)说。道林与公司的营销团队一起协作，想出了一个虚拟化的解决方案。
The online listing will offer two sets of photos. One will show the apartment as-is, the other will have most of the taxidermy edited out “so prospective buyers can get a sense of the grandeur of the apartment,” which has a dining room and a maid’s room, Mr. Dowling said. “It’s a fantastic opportunity to buy a home at the Beresford, an iconic New York City landmark, one of the most prestigious addresses in the city.”
网上的挂牌信息将包括两组照片。一组展示的是公寓真实的样子，另一组展示的是把大多数标本编辑掉的样子，“这样一来，潜在买家就能领略到这套公寓的大气，”它还有一间餐厅和一间佣人房呢，道林说，“贝雷斯福德大楼是纽约市的地标建筑，也是全市最有名的地址之一。这是一个绝佳的、可以在这栋楼里买房的机会。”
Mr. Speck is not a hunter. He acquired the pieces from museum liquidations, taxidermist castoffs and hunters whose wives wouldn’t allow them to hang their trophies in the house. “In the ’90s, it was politically incorrect to have taxidermy specimens for various reasons,” he said. “I found I was able to acquire many museum-quality trophies for very little because people didn’t want them.”
斯派克并不是一名猎手，他获取标本的渠道包括博物馆清算的藏品、其他人不要的标本、猎手们的战利品——有些猎手的老婆不准他们把战利品挂在房子里。“在90年代，由于种种原因，收藏动物剥制标本是一种政治不正确的行为，”他说，“我发现自己可以花很少的钱，买到很多博物馆级别的战利品，因为人们不想要它们。”
Some of the taxidermy, including a possum perched on a birch branch and the mute swan, were roadkill that Mr. Speck found and had stuffed. “I think they’re beautiful,” he said. “I guess some people see murder on the walls, but I committed no murders. You know, I gave them the best home that I could.”
有些标本——比如一根桦树枝上的负鼠，还有那只疣鼻天鹅——来源于马路上被车轧死的动物。斯派克把它们捡回来，塞入填充物，制成了标本。“我觉得它们很美，” 他说，“我估计有些人从我墙上的标本中看到了杀戮，但是我没有杀生，我给它们营造了我所能营造的最好的家。”
In all, Mr. Speck owns 400 specimens — 200 at the Beresford apartment and 200 at his home in Harrisonburg, Va. “Thirty-six years is a long time to live somewhere,” Mr. Speck said.
斯派克总共拥有400件标本，她们被分别放置在他的两处住所里，其中200件在贝雷斯福德公寓，另一半位于弗吉尼亚州的哈里森堡(Harrisonburg)。“在某一个地方居住36年，是段很长的时间。” 斯派克说。