Angelina Jolie’s disclosure that she had her breasts removed this year in the hope of preventing breast cancer highlights the painful dilemma facing other women who, like her, learn that they carry genetic mutations that greatly increase the risk of the disease.
安吉丽娜·朱莉(Angelina Jolie)透露，为了预防乳腺癌，她已于今年切除了双乳，这突显了像她这样的女性所面临的痛苦困境，因为她们获悉，自己携带着会极大增加患乳腺癌风险的基因突变。
Her condition, a defective version of a gene called BRCA1, is not common. Mutations in that gene and another called BRCA2 are estimated to cause only 5 percent to 10 percent of breast cancers and 10 percent to 15 percent of ovarian cancers among white women in the United States. The mutations are found in other racial and ethnic groups as well, but it is not known how common they are in those groups.
她携带的是一种名为BRCA1的基因的缺陷版本，这种情况并不常见。据估计，在美国白人女性中，因这种基因以及名为BRCA2的基因发生变异导致的乳腺癌病例只占总数的5%至10%，导致的卵巢癌病例只占10%至15%。在其他人种和族群中也发现了这两种基因突变，但尚不清楚它们在那些人群中的普遍程度。
Women who carry these mutations have, on average, about a 65 percent risk of developing breast cancer, as opposed to a risk of about 12 percent for most women. For some mutation carriers, the risk is even higher; Ms. Jolie, who described her condition and medical choices in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times on Tuesday, said that the estimate for her was 87 percent.
携带这两种基因变异的女性患乳腺癌的风险平均约为65%，而大多数女性的患病机率仅为12%左右。一些变异基因携带者面临的风险甚至更高；朱莉称，据估计她的患病机率为87%。她于周二在《纽约时报》的一篇专栏文章中讲述了自己的情况和医疗选择。
Most women with breast cancer do not have BRCA mutations and do not need to be tested for them, doctors say. But for women who have breast cancer and do have mutations, knowing their status can help them make further treatment decisions, such as whether to have an unaffected breast or their ovaries removed.
医生表示，大部分患乳腺癌的女性并没有BRCA变异，也不需要就此接受检查。但对那些的确携带着基因变异的乳腺癌患者而言，知道自己的状况有助于她们选择进一步的治疗方案，比如是否切除未受影响的一侧乳房或卵巢。
Women who should consider asking a doctor about testing are those who have breast cancer before age 50; those who have a family history of both breast and ovarian cancer; or those who have many close relatives with breast cancer, especially if it developed when they were young. Any woman with ovarian cancer should consider being tested, as should Jewish women with breast or ovarian cancer. Men with breast cancer and their family members should also inquire about the possibility of a genetic predisposition to the disease.
需要考虑向医生咨询检查的女性包括那些曾在50岁以下患过乳腺癌的人；那些同时有乳腺癌和卵巢癌家族病史的人；以及很多近亲都患有乳腺癌的人，特别是在年轻时就开始发病的。任何患有卵巢癌的女性都应该考虑去做检查，患有乳腺癌或卵巢癌的犹太女性也该如此。患有乳腺癌的男性及其家庭成员也应该咨询这种疾病遗传的可能性。
Because the cancer risks for carriers are so high, women with the mutations are often advised to have their breasts and ovaries removed as a preventive measure. It is generally considered safe to wait long enough to have children before having the ovaries removed, but the operation should be done by age 40, said Dr. Susan M. Domchek, an expert on the genetics of breast and ovarian cancer at the University of Pennsylvania and the executive director of its Basser Research Center, which specializes in BRCA mutations.
由于变异基因携带者的乳腺癌发病率很高，医生经常建议这类女性采取预防措施，切除乳房和卵巢。宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)乳腺癌和卵巢癌基因学专家苏珊·M·多姆切克(Susan M. Domchek)称，一般来说，可以等到生完孩子后再切除卵巢，这是安全的，但这种手术必须在40岁以前做。多姆切克还是主要研究BRCA变异的巴瑟尔研究中心( Basser Research Center)执行主任。
Ms. Jolie, 37, said that she herself had a 50 percent risk of ovarian cancer. “I started with the breasts, as my risk of breast cancer is higher than my risk of ovarian cancer, and the surgery is more complex,” she wrote.
今年37岁的朱莉称，她自己患上卵巢癌的几率是50%。她写道，“我先从乳房开始，因为我患乳腺癌的几率比卵巢癌高，而且这个手术更复杂。”
Removing the breasts is not the only option, Dr. Domchek said. Some women with BRCA mutations choose close monitoring with mammograms and M.R.I. scans once a year, staggered so that they have one scan or the other every six months. But those tests, unlike the surgery, do not prevent breast cancer, but do offer a chance to find it early.
多姆切克称，切除乳房并不是唯一的选择。一些携带BRCA变异基因的女性本来选择一年做一次可以密切观察的钼靶检查和核磁共振成像扫描，如今则在震惊之下改为每六个月就做一次检查或者是扫描。但是和手术不同，这种检查并不能避免罹患乳腺癌，只能提供早期发现的机会。
For some women, certain drugs can lower the risk of breast cancer, but not as much as preventive mastectomy.
对一些女性来说，某些药物可以降低患乳腺癌的风险，但却比不上预防性的切除手术。临床遗传学的负责人。