With Democratic leaders increasingly worried about a lack of passion for Hillary Clinton among young black voters, President Barack Obama is rolling out a new and more personal campaign message: “It’s about me.”
在民主党领导人越来越担心年轻黑人选民对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)缺乏热情的情况下，贝拉克·奥巴马总统发出了一种新的、更具个人色彩的竞选讯息：“这跟我有关。”
The president told African-Americans this weekend he would consider it a “personal insult” if they did not vote for Clinton, implicitly putting his name on the line as his former secretary of state struggles to replicate the coalition that delivered him victories in 2008 and 2012.
这个周末，奥巴马总统对非裔美国人表示，如果他们不投票支持克林顿，他会认为那是对他“个人的侮辱”。奥巴马此举无疑将自己的个人名誉悬于一线，曾在他手下担任国务卿的克林顿试图重建2008年和2012年让奥巴马获得胜利的那种联盟，但成效堪忧。
“My name may not be on the ballot, but our progress is on the ballot,” Obama said on Saturday night at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation gala dinner in Washington, before Clinton addressed the crowd. “Tolerance is on the ballot. Democracy is on the ballot. Justice is on the ballot.”
“我的名字也许不在选票上，但我们的进展在选票上，”周六晚，奥巴马在华盛顿的国会黑人议员团基金会(Congressional Black Caucus Foundation)晚宴上说。“宽容在选票上。民主在选票上。正义在选票上。”在他之后，克林顿也发表了讲话。
Obama has previously made the case for Clinton during campaign stops and in his speech at the Democratic National Convention. But his remarks on Saturday carried a more personal tone, and a tacit acknowledgment that he may be the only one who can bring out the coalition of young, black and Latino voters who Democrats are counting on on Nov. 8.
此前，在多场竞选活动和民主党全国大会的讲话中，奥巴马也曾陈述过支持克林顿的理由。但周六这番发言更具个人色彩，也是默认他自己也许是唯一一个能让年轻人、黑人和拉美裔选民组成的联盟在11月8日那天走出家门投票的人。这个联盟对民主党有着举足轻重的意义。
“That speech went beyond the room. It went beyond the moment,” said Donna Brazile, the interim chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee. “That was the president essentially saying, ‘Don’t leave it on the field.'”
“那番讲话超越了那个大厅，超越了那一刻，”民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)的临时主席唐娜·布拉吉尔(Donna Brazile)说。“总统本质上是在说，‘不要有一丝保留。’”
During the Democratic primary race, Clinton enjoyed tremendous support from African-American voters, especially older black women, who helped her beat back a challenge from Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont.
在民主党党内初选中，克林顿得到了非裔选民、尤其是年长黑人女性的大力支持，他们帮她击退了来自佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)的挑战。
And Clinton now holds a gaping advantage of 83 percentage points over the Republican presidential nominee, Donald Trump, among black voters, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released last week.
《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)上周发布的民调结果显示，在黑人选民中，克林顿的支持率领先共和党总统提名人唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)83个百分点，其优势是压倒性的。
But many Democrats say Clinton’s statistical advantage obscures concerns about turnout and voter apathy.
但许多民主党人认为，克林顿在统计上的优势，遮蔽了关于投票率和选民冷漠态度的担忧。
Younger black voters, in particular, have expressed misgivings about Clinton because of some of the policies of her husband’s administration.
尤其值得注意的是，鉴于她丈夫领导的政府推行过的某些政策，一些较为年轻的黑人选民表达了对她的疑虑。
These voters specifically point to the 1994 crime bill, which put more police officers on the streets, but also led to tougher sentences for nonviolent drug offenders and the overhaul of welfare, which reduced federal assistance for the poor by nearly $55 billion over six years.
这些选民特别提到了1994年的反犯罪法案。该法案让街上出现了更多警察，但也导致非暴力毒品犯罪人员受到更严厉的惩罚，并带来了福利改革——对穷人的联邦援助在六年间被削减了将近550亿美元。
In addition, it is hard for Clinton to replicate the deep personal affection and pride that many African-Americans feel for Obama.
此外，非裔美国人对奥巴马有深切的好感，并为他感到骄傲，克林顿很难在他们身上唤起同样的情感。
“People say, ‘It doesn’t matter because Hillary Clinton will get 90 percent of the African-American vote,'” said Charlie King, a prominent New York Democrat. “The question is, ‘Ninety percent of what?’ Turnout makes a difference.”
“人们说，‘这不要紧，因为希拉里·克林顿可以拿到90%的非裔美国人的票，’”纽约的民主党重要人物查理·金(Charlie King)说。“问题在于，‘多少人里的90%？’投票率很要紧的。”
With 50 days until the election, Minyon Moore, a senior adviser to the Clinton campaign, called Obama’s remarks on Saturday “a true wake-up call” to his coalition of supporters.
距离大选还有50天，克林顿竞选团队的高级顾问敏永·摩尔(Minyon Moore)说，奥巴马周六的演讲给他的支持者联盟敲响了“真正的警钟”。
In part, the speech reflected the president’s eagerness to use the outsize sway he has with black voters, especially younger people who had not been engaged in politics before his bids for the White House.
在某种程度上，这场演讲反映出，总统迫切地想要利用自己对黑人选民的巨大影响力，尤其是对在他竞选总统前不太关心政治的年轻人。
But in recent days, advisers to Obama say, the president has grown exasperated with the tenor of the campaign — including the re-emergence of questions about his birthplace, an issue that he and many of his supporters have long regarded as racist. While his advisers have suggested his most powerful role in the Clinton campaign is as a convert who has come to respect his onetime rival, Obama is also determined to warn his supporters about the dangers of failing to turn out and essentially ceding the presidency to Trump.
不过，奥巴马的顾问称，近些天来，总统越来越不满于当前选战的基调——包括重新浮出水面、对其出生地的质疑，他和他的许多支持者一直视此事为种族主义。虽然奥巴马的助手曾表示，作为克林顿竞选团队中的最重要角色，他是对这位昔日对手产生敬意后成为她的拥护者的，不过他还决心警告他的支持者，不出门投票，把总统之位拱手让给特朗普有多危险。
Obama’s speech coincided this weekend with massive get-out-the-vote efforts by the Clinton campaign, including the dispatching of 55,000 volunteers to lead more than 2,000 voter-registration events in Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Ohio.
奥巴马本周末的演讲，与克林顿竞选团队进行的大规模投票动员两相呼应。其动员举措包括，派出5.5万名志愿者，在宾夕法尼亚州、北卡罗来纳州和俄亥俄州牵头组织了超过2000场选民登记活动。
“Are we where we need to be? Probably not,” Moore said. “Are we going to get to where we need to be? Absolutely.”
“我们有没有达到需要达到的目标？可能还没有，”摩尔说。“我们会不会达到需要达到的目标？肯定会。”
The blunt and personal language from Obama seemed to reverberate. By 9 a.m. Sunday, the Rev. Al Sharpton began taking calls from black listeners to his “Keepin’ It Real” radio program who said they had misgivings about Clinton, but could not bear to insult Obama. “Making not voting synonymous with an insult to the president is a shot in the arm,” Sharpton said in an interview.
奥巴马锋芒毕露的个性化言辞似乎产生了广泛影响。到了周日上午9点，广播节目《真实面对》(Keepin’ It Real)的主持人阿尔·夏普顿牧师(Rev. Al Sharpton)开始接到黑人听众的电话，他们说自己对克林顿抱有疑虑，但不忍侮辱奥巴马。“把不投票变成侮辱奥巴马的代名词，宛如一剂强心针，”夏普顿接受采访时说。
After devoting much of the summer trying to woo white suburban voters turned off by Trump, the Clinton campaign has refocused its efforts to a big turnout push directed at black and young voters.
这个夏天，克林顿竞选团队花了很多时间竭力讨好被特朗普惹恼的郊区白人选民，现在则重新把重点放在了大力推动黑人和年轻选民出门投票上。
In the weeks since Labor Day, Clinton has held rallies before largely black crowds in Cleveland, at a historically black college in Charlotte, North Carolina, and at a college in Greensboro, North Carolina.
劳动节以来的几周里，克林顿分别在克利夫兰、北卡罗来纳州夏洛特市的一所历史悠久的黑人学院，和格林斯伯勒市的一所学院举办了参加者主要为黑人的集会。
She spoke about her deep ties to black churches while at the National Baptist Convention in Kansas City, Missouri; she called into Tom Joyner’s radio program when she was home sick with pneumonia; and, this past weekend, she addressed the Black Women’s Agenda Symposium.
她在密苏里州堪萨斯城全国浸礼联会(National Baptist Convention)谈及自己和黑人教会的密切关联；她因患肺炎卧病在家时打电话参与了汤姆·乔伊纳(Tom Joyner)的广播节目；上周，她还在“非裔妇女座谈会”(Black Women’s Agenda Symposium)上发表了讲话。
The Clinton campaign plans to employ Obama and the first lady, Michelle Obama, as much as possible in the coming weeks, making particular use of the couple in Florida, Ohio and North Carolina — in areas of those states that Obama won handily in 2008 and 2012.
在接下来的几周里，克林顿竞选团队计划尽可能地利用奥巴马及第一夫人米歇尔，特别是在佛罗里达、俄亥俄与北卡罗来纳州一些地区的竞选活动中——在2008年和2012年的两次竞选中，奥巴马曾在这些地方轻松赢得胜利。
After campaign aides insisted in June that Obama would not be pigeonholed to reach African-American voters, whose support appeared steady for Clinton, the campaign has appeared to acknowledge his help is needed, sending him to cities like Philadelphia and Charlotte, which are home to many black voters.
克林顿的竞选团队似乎承认了自己需要奥巴马的帮助，请他到居住着许多黑人选民的费城和夏洛特等城市参加活动。而在今年6月，多名竞选团队成员还坚称，不会专门动用奥巴马来帮助争取非裔选民。当时克林顿在这部分选民中获得的支持似乎比较稳定。
“There’s some thought that without him on the ticket, the same enthusiasm might not be there for Hillary Clinton,” said Rep. Charles B. Rangel, D-N.Y. “I think it’s very smart for the president to say it’s not just Hillary Clinton in the future, it’s the wiping out of all the progress we made not just over Obama years, but over the many, many years,”
“有些人认为，没有他站台，人们对希拉里·克林顿可能不会有这么大热情，”纽约州民主党众议员查尔斯·B·兰格尔(Charles B. Rangel)说。“我觉得总统说未来不只关乎希拉里·克林顿，这是很聪明的做法。因为不仅有可能会抹掉奥巴马政府期间取得的所有进步，还会抹掉我们在许多许多年里取得的进步。”
If schedules permit, the campaign would like to organize another rally featuring Obama and Clinton side by side. “It’s a little bit of magic when they’re on stage together,” Moore said.
如果时间允许，竞选团队会乐意组织另一场集会活动，让奥巴马和希拉里一起出席。“他们一起在场上出现时，会有那么一点点魔力，”摩尔说。