The United Nations has ended a campaign featuring Wonder Woman as an ambassador for women and girls, two months after the announcement was met with protests and a petition complaining that the fictional superhero was an inappropriate choice to represent female empowerment.
联合国结束了一场由神奇女侠(Wonder Woman)担任女性赋权大使的活动。两个月前，联合国宣布这项任命后，遭到抗议和请愿，请愿称这位虚构超级英雄不适合代表女性权益。
In announcing the campaign in October, the United Nations said it was “about women and girls everywhere, who are wonder women in their own right, and the men and boys who support their struggle for gender equality.”
今年10月，联合国在宣布这项活动时称，它是“关于世界各地凭借自己的力量创造奇迹的女性以及支持女性争取性别平等的男性”。
But not everyone saw it that way. Nearly 45,000 people signed a petition protesting the selection.
但并非所有人都这样认为。近4.5万人签署了一封抗议这项任命的请愿书。
“A large-breasted white woman of impossible proportions, scantily clad in a shimmery, thigh-baring body suit with an American flag motif and knee-high boots” is not an appropriate spokeswoman for gender equity at the United Nations, the petition said.
请愿书写道，她“是一个身材比例不真实的大胸白人女性，身穿带有美国国旗图案、袒露大腿的闪亮紧身衣和及膝长靴”，不适合担任联合国性别平等活动的代言人。
Jeffrey Brez, a spokesman for the U.N., disputed that the campaign had ended early or as a result of the protest, as some reports have suggested, citing other honorary ambassadorships with much shorter tenures.
联合国发言人杰弗里·布雷斯(Jeffrey Brez)否认该活动提前结束，或者像某些报道暗示的那样，由于抗议而被迫终止。他还指出，其他一些荣誉大使任期更短。
The “Angry Birds” character Red spent one day in May as an honorary ambassador for climate issues, he said.
他说，今年5月，《愤怒的小鸟》(Angry Birds)中的怒红鸟(Red)仅担任了1天气候问题的荣誉大使。
“Some people voiced a concern that they didn’t feel it was appropriate for a fictional character to be representing women and girls,” Mr. Brez said on Tuesday.
“有些人表达了一种担忧，称他们认为一个虚构人物不适合代表女性，”布雷斯周二说。
In response to those complaints, he said, the organization had tried to emphasize “the real-life wonder women, real-life women and girls” who would be affected by the campaign, which was meant to promote gender equity worldwide as part of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
他说，作为对那些抱怨的回应，该组织曾努力强调这场活动将会鼓舞“现实生活中那些真实的了不起的女性”。该活动旨在在全球范围内倡导性别平等，这是联合国可持续发展目标(United Nations Sustainable Development Goals)的一部分。
Wonder Woman’s ambassadorship began with great fanfare with an event in October that featured the actresses Lynda Carter and Gal Gadot, who have both portrayed the character on the big and small screens.
今年10月，神奇女侠的荣誉大使任期以一场活动大张旗鼓地展开，参与活动的包括女演员琳达·卡特(Lynda Carter)和盖尔·加朵(Gal Gadot)，她们都曾在电影或电视剧中饰演这个角色。
(The announcement, and the objections to it, came weeks after the United Nations rejected seven female candidates to be its next secretary-general, before choosing a man, António Guterres.)
（在这项任命以及对它的反对出现之前数周，联合国拒绝了下一任秘书长的7名女候选人，选择了一名男性——安东尼奥·古特雷斯[António Guterres]。)
A spokeswoman for DC Entertainment, in whose comics Wonder Woman first appeared in 1941, said the company has been “extremely pleased” with the partnership.
DC娱乐公司(DC Entertainment)的一位女发言人称，该公司对这项合作感到“非常高兴”。1941年，神奇女侠在该公司的漫画中首次亮相。
“Wonder Woman stands for peace, justice and equality, and for 75 years she has been a motivating force for many and will continue to be long after the conclusion of her U.N. honorary ambassadorship,” the spokeswoman, Courtney Simmons, said via email.
“神奇女侠代表着和平、正义和平等，75年来，她鼓舞了很多人，在她的联合国荣誉大使任期结束后，她仍将长期发挥影响力，”发言人考特妮·西蒙斯(Courtney Simmons)通过邮件表示。
Wonder Woman’s ambassadorship officially ends on Friday.
神奇女侠的大使任期将正式于周五结束。