WASHINGTON — They were the towheaded sisters who tagged along on campaigns, polite and smiling, as their father rose through Wyoming and then Washington politics to become one of the most powerful men in the country.
华盛顿——当父亲先后在怀俄明及华盛顿政坛崛起，位居最有权势的美国人之列的时候，这两个有着淡黄色头发的姐妹一直跟随竞选活动，总是彬彬有礼、面带微笑。
“We were as close as sisters can be,” recalled Mary Cheney of her relationship with her older sister Liz.
玛丽·切尼(Mary Cheney)在回忆与姐姐利兹(Liz)的关系时说，“我们姐妹那时要多亲就有多亲。”
But now, a feud between the two has spilled into public view, involving social media, an angry same-sex spouse, a high-profile election and a father who feels uncomfortably caught between his two children.
但如今，两人的恩怨却涌入了公众的视野中，涉及其中的有社交媒体、一个愤怒的同性配偶、一场高调的选举，以及一位因为夹在两个孩子中间而感到不自在的父亲。
The situation has deteriorated so much that the two sisters have not spoken since the summer and the whole fuss threatens to get in the way of something former Vice President Dick Cheney desperately wants — a United States Senate seat for Liz.
情况已恶化到不可开交的地步，以至于两姐妹从夏天以来就没说过话。这场风波可能会阻碍前副总统迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)获得他极度渴望的东西——利兹在美国参议院的席位。
Things erupted on Sunday when Mary Cheney, a lesbian, and her wife were at home watching Fox News Sunday — their usual weekend ritual. Liz Cheney appeared on the show and said that she opposed same-sex marriage, describing it as “just an area where we disagree,” referring to her sister. Taken aback and hurt, Mary Cheney took to her Facebook page to blast back: “Liz — this isn’t just an issue on which we disagree you’re just wrong — and on the wrong side of history.”
事件爆发于周日。当时，女同性恋者玛丽·切尼和她的妻子像平时的周末一样，在家看《福克斯周日新闻》(Fox News Sunday)。利兹·切尼出现在节目中，她表示自己反对同性婚姻，将这描述为“是我们不可能取得一致的地方”，这里是说她和她的妹妹。玛丽·切尼感到非常震惊和受伤，她在自己的Facebook页面上进行猛烈还击：“利兹——这不仅仅是我们不可能取得一致的地方，是你错了——你站在历史错误的一边。”
But then Mary Cheney’s wife, Heather Poe, went further, touching on Liz Cheney’s relocation from Northern Virginia to Wyoming to seek office. (Liz Cheney is already battling accusations of carpetbagging in the race.)
然而，玛丽·切尼的妻子希瑟·波(Heather Poe)则更进一步，谈及利兹为了谋求公职从弗吉尼亚州北部搬到怀俄明州。（利兹·切尼已经在与指责她转换居住地为了选举投机取巧的说法苦苦斗争了。）
“I can’t help but wonder how Liz would feel if as she moved from state to state, she discovered that her family was protected in one but not the other,” Ms. Poe wrote on her Facebook page. “Yes, Liz,” she added, “in fifteen states and the District of Columbia you are my sister-in-law.”
希瑟·波在自己的Facebook页面上写道，“我忍不住想知道，利兹从一个州搬到另一个州的时候，如果发现她的家人在一个地方受到保护，在另一个地方却没有受到保护，她会作何感想。”她还写道，“是的，利兹，在15个州及哥伦比亚特区，你是我的大姑子。”
The feud reveals tensions not just within the family but in the Republican Party more broadly as it seeks to respond to both a changing America and an energized, fervently conservative base.
这场争论不仅反映了这个家庭内部的矛盾，更广泛地说，这也反映了共和党内部的矛盾。它一面试图应对不断变化的美国，一面则要面对十分活跃却极为保守的本党基础选民。
Indeed, while Liz Cheney seeks to make clear her opposition to same-sex marriage, her father more than a decade ago was able to embrace fairly moderate views on the subject, breaking publicly with President George W. Bush over Mr. Bush’s support for a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage. He has gone further still since then, telling Barbara Walters in 2011, “I certainly don’t have any problem with” same-sex marriage.
实际上，尽管利兹·切尼试图表明对同性婚姻的反对态度，但她父亲早在十多年前就对该问题采取了十分温和的态度，并在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统支持修改宪法禁止同性婚姻的问题上与其公开划清界线。此后，他的态度更加坚决，在2011年告诉芭芭拉·沃尔特斯(Barbara Walters)，对于同性婚姻，“我绝对没有问题”。
But Ms. Cheney, in her bid to defeat Republican Senator Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, is running to his right and seeking to capture conservatives and Tea Party enthusiasts.
不过，为了打败怀俄明州现任共和党参议员迈克尔·B·恩齐(Michael B. Enzi)，利兹·切尼正以比他更右的姿态竞选，并努力获取保守派及茶党(Tea Party)活跃人士的支持。
Liz Cheney on Sunday declined to directly address the remarks from her sister and sister-in-law, but said in an email: “I love my sister and her family and have always tried to be compassionate towards them. I believe that is the Christian way to behave.”
周日，利兹·切尼拒绝直接回应妹妹及其妻子发表的言论，但她在一封邮件中表示，“我爱我妹妹以及她的家人，我一直尽量关心她们。我觉得这是基督徒的行为方式。”
People who have spoken to Liz Cheney say she is irritated that her sister is making their dispute public and believes it is hypocritical for Mary Cheney to take such a hard line now, given that she worked for the re-election of President Bush, an opponent of same-sex marriage.
与利兹·切尼交谈过的人表示，利兹对妹妹将争论公诸于众的做法感到非常愤怒，她认为玛丽·切尼目前坚持强硬态度是一种虚伪的行为，因为玛丽曾在布什总统连任竞选期间为他工作，而布什反对同性婚姻。
The relationship between the two sisters used to be quite different. The daughters drew especially close when their father ran as Mr. Bush’s running mate in 2000 and eventually became a figure of great controversy and enormous power as vice president. After Mr. Cheney left office in 2009, politically bruised and physically ailing, the sisters, who lived 15 minutes apart in Washington’s tony Northern Virginia suburbs, would join their parents for a standing Sunday dinner at Liz’s house in McLean each week, along with their families, including Ms. Poe.
两姐妹过去的关系与现在完全不同。她们的父亲在2000年担任布什的搭档参加竞选，并最终当选副总统，成为一个充满争议但拥有极大权力的人物。在这一过程中，两姐妹变得格外亲密。切尼于2009年离任的时候，政治名声受损，健康状况也不佳。之后，两姐妹每周日都会聚集在利兹位于麦克莱恩的住所与父母、家人一起共进晚餐，波也会参加。两人都住在华盛顿特区与弗吉尼亚州北部接壤处富裕、时尚的郊区，相隔15分钟的路程。
Mary Cheney, 44, said in a phone interview Sunday that she presumed her sister shared her father’s views on marriage, and that view was reinforced because Liz Cheney “was always very supportive” of her relationship with Ms. Poe and the couple’s two children. She learned otherwise in August when Liz Cheney declared, shortly after announcing her Senate candidacy, that she was opposed to gay nuptials. Mary Cheney said it is now “impossible” for the sisters to reconcile as long as Liz Cheney maintains that position.
44岁的玛丽·切尼周日接受电话采访时称，她本以为姐姐与父亲在婚姻问题上观点一致，而且由于利兹·切尼“一直非常支持”她与波的关系及两人的孩子，她就更是深信不疑。她今年8月才得知事情并非如此。当时，刚宣布其参议员竞选资格不久的利兹·切尼宣称，她反对同性婚姻。玛丽·切尼称，只要利兹·切尼保持这种立场，姐妹俩现在就是“不可能”和好的。
“What amazes me is that she says she’s running to be a new generation of leader,” Mary Cheney said, citing her 47-year-old sister’s slogan in her campaign against Mr. Enzi, 69. “I’m not sure how sticking to the positions of the last 20 or 30 years is the best way to do that.”
“让我惊讶的是，她说自己竞选是为了成为新一代的领导人，”玛丽·切尼说。这是她47岁的姐姐挑战69岁的恩齐时采用的竞选口号。“我可不确定，与过去二三十年的立场保持一致怎么会是实现这一点的最好方法。”
Mary Cheney said it was her wife’s idea for the couple to take to Facebook to respond to Liz’s televised remarks. Ms. Poe seemed especially hurt that her sister-in-law had acted so embracing toward them in private, and then took this public position.
玛丽·切尼说，她们两人去Facebook上回应利兹的电视讲话是妻子的主意。看起来，尤其让波受到伤害的是，妻姐过去一直在私下里对她们欣然接受，后来却做出如此的公开表态。
“Liz has been a guest in our home, has spent time and shared holidays with our children, and when Mary and I got married in 2012 — she didn’t hesitate to tell us how happy she was for us,” Ms. Poe wrote. “To have her say she doesn’t support our right to marry is offensive to say the least.”
“利兹一直是我们家的客人，与我们的孩子一起玩、一起过节。玛丽和我2012年结婚的时候，她毫不犹豫地告诉我们，她非常为我们高兴，”波写道。“她说不支持我们结婚的权利，这最起码也算是无礼。”
It is not the substance of the issue that could hurt Liz Cheney in Wyoming — her opponent also opposes same-sex marriage. But the ugly family drama and questions about what Liz Cheney truly believes could reinforce questions about her authenticity in a place where many voters have met their politicians in person and are already skeptical of an outsider like Ms. Cheney, who was raised primarily in the suburbs of Washington.
可能损害利兹·切尼在怀俄明的竞选机会的，倒不是这一问题的实质，毕竟她的对手也反对同性婚姻。可是，令人难堪的家庭闹剧，以及对利兹·切尼真实信仰的质疑或许会让人们加深对她可靠性的质疑。她主要在华盛顿的郊区长大，而怀俄明的许多选民都直接接触过代表他们的政客，对她这样的外来者本就满腹狐疑。
The former vice president is active and visible in his daughter’s Senate bid and this Wednesday, he will join her in Denver for a fund-raiser to benefit her campaign. Early polls show Liz Cheney trailing Mr. Enzi, but her fund-raising since declaring her candidacy has been robust.
前副总统迪克·切尼在女儿的参议员竞选活动中相当活跃，也会抛头露面。本周三，他将出席女儿在丹佛举行的竞选筹款会。早期民调显示，利兹·切尼落后于恩齐，不过宣布参选资格后，她的筹款势头一直很强劲。
As for Mary Cheney, she said that when she gets together with her parents these days, they know which subjects not to bring up. “They come over for dinner and we don’t talk about Liz or the race,” she said. “There is so much more to talk about.”
至于玛丽·切尼，她表示，这些日子与父母见面的时候，他们知道哪些话题不该提。“他们来吃晚饭的话，我们不会说起利兹或者是竞选的事情，”她说，“还有好多其他东西可谈。”
The Cheneys have tried to be “as neutral as they can,” added Mary Cheney. “My parents are stuck in an awful position.”
玛丽·切尼还说，父母试图“尽量保持中立”。“我爸妈现在卡在尴尬的位置。”
As for the coming holidays, Mary Cheney said that her parents will come to her and Ms. Poe’s Northern Virginia home for Thanksgiving and that she assumed her older sister would be in Wyoming.
说到接下来的各种节日，玛丽·切尼称，父母会到她和波在维吉尼亚州北部的家中共度感恩节。她想姐姐会待在怀俄明。
At Christmas, the whole Cheney clan will head to the Jackson Hole area in Wyoming, where Liz Cheney now lives. But Mary Cheney said of her sister, “I will not be seeing her.”
到了圣诞节，切尼全家将前往利兹·切尼目前居住的怀俄明杰克逊霍尔地区。不过，谈到姐姐的时候，玛丽·切尼说，“我不会去看她。”