Perhaps no crime staggers the mind, or turns the stomach, more than the murder of a baby, and so it is not a surprise when law enforcement comes down hard on the presumed killers. Often enough, these are men and women accused of having succumbed to sudden rage or simmering frustration and literally shaken the life out of a helpless infant who would not stop crying or would not fall asleep.
可能没有什么罪行能比杀害婴儿更令人震惊或愤怒的了。因此，执法机构严惩被当做杀婴犯的人不足为奇。频频有男男女女被控陷入突如其来的愤怒或是酝酿已久的不满而不能自拔，要了哭个不停或是不愿睡觉的婴儿的性命。按照字面意思，那些无助的婴儿是被摇晃致死的。
Shaken baby syndrome has been a recognized diagnosis for several decades, though many medical professionals now prefer the term abusive head trauma. It is defined by a constellation of symptoms known as the triad: brain swelling, bleeding on the surface of the brain and bleeding behind the eyes. For years, those three symptoms by themselves were uniformly accepted as evidence that a crime had been committed, even in the absence of bruises, broken bones or other signs of abuse. While many doctors, maybe most, still swear by the diagnosis, a growing number have lost faith. Not that they doubt that some babies have been abused. But these skeptics assert that factors other than shaking, and having nothing to do with criminal behavior, may sometimes explain the triad.
“摇晃婴儿综合征”作为一种得到认可的诊断结果已有几十年的历史了，不过现在很多医疗专业人士更喜欢用“虐待性头部创伤”这个说法。它是由一系列称为“三要素”的症状来定义的：脑肿胀、脑表面出血、视网膜出血。多年来，这三种症状一直被认为是发生了犯罪行为的证据，即便没有淤青、骨折或其他虐待迹象。尽管很多医生，或者说大部分医生依然非常信赖这一诊断，但越来越多的人在失去信心。这些心存疑虑的人并不是怀疑一些婴儿没有受到虐待，而是认为，上述三种症状，有时候可能是由摇晃以外的因素造成的，而这些因素和犯罪行为根本不搭边。
Has the syndrome been diagnosed too liberally? Are some innocent parents and other caretakers being wrongly sent to prison? Those questions, at the complex intersection of medicine and the law, can stir strong emotions among doctors, parents and prosecutors. They shape this first installment in a new series of Retro Report, video documentaries that explore major news stories of the past and their enduring consequences.
我们对摇晃婴儿综合征的诊断太过宽泛了吗？是不是有一些无辜的家长和看护人员被错误地投进了监狱？在医学和法律的复杂交叉口，这些问题可能会在医生、家长和检察官当中激起强烈的情绪。它们成就了本报新推出的“历史回眸”栏目(Retro Report)的开篇报道。这一栏目将以视频纪录的形式重新审视过去的重大新闻事件及其持久影响。
The video’s starting point is a Massachusetts criminal case that introduced the concept of shaken baby syndrome to many Americans: the 1997 murder trial of Louise Woodward, an 18-year-old British au pair accused of having shaken an 8-month-old boy, Matthew Eappen, so aggressively that he died. Matthew also had injuries that may have predated Ms. Woodward’s joining the Eappen family in Newton, outside Boston. The focus, however, was on the triad of symptoms. To prosecution witnesses, they proved that the baby had been shaken violently, his head hitting some hard surface.
视频从马萨诸塞州的一起刑事案件开始。很多美国人是通过那起案件第一次知道了摇晃婴儿综合征这个概念。该案在1997年庭审，当时，18岁的英国交换生路易丝·伍德沃德(Louise Woodward)被控用力摇晃八个月大的婴儿马修·伊彭(Matthew Eappen)致其死亡。马修身上还有一些伤的出现时间，可能是在伍德沃德住进位于波士顿郊区纽顿的伊彭家之前。然而，当时的焦点在上述三大症状上。在检方证人看来，它们证明马修被猛烈摇晃过，头部曾撞到过某种硬面。
Throughout, Ms. Woodward insisted on her innocence. But a jury in state court found her guilty of second-degree murder, and she was sentenced to a prison term of 15 years to life. Within days, though, the trial judge called the murder conviction an injustice. He knocked down the charge to involuntary manslaughter, reducing the young woman’s sentence to time already served, 279 days. Many in Massachusetts and beyond were outraged. Nonetheless, Ms. Woodward was free to return to England.
伍德沃德自始至终坚称自己无罪。但州法院的陪审团裁定她犯了二级谋杀罪，并判处她最少要服刑15年。但几天后，主审法官称谋杀罪判决有失公正。他将指控降为过失杀人，并将伍德沃德的刑期减为她已经服了的279天。马萨诸塞州内外的很多人对此义愤填膺。然而，伍德沃德还是获释回到了英格兰。
The “nanny murder trial,” as headline writers called it, had an unfortunate subplot. In some quarters of public opinion, Matthew’s mother, Deborah Eappen, stood figuratively in the dock as well. A doctor — like her husband, Sunil Eappen — she found herself under the sort of attack many working women face to this day. The case, a New York Times article said in 1997, “put a spotlight on the backlash against working mothers who consign their children to the care of others.”
这次庭审被新闻报道称作“保姆谋杀案”，其中有一个次要情节。在部分舆论中，马修的母亲德博拉·伊彭(Deborah Eappen)也被象征性地放到了被告席上。德博拉和丈夫苏尼尔·伊彭(Sunil Eappen)一样，都是医生。她受到了很多职场女性时至今日仍会面临的那种攻击。《纽约时报》在1997年的一篇文章中写道，该案“让把孩子托付给他人看护的职场母亲遭到的强烈反对受到了关注”。
But the dominant issue was child abuse. Shaken baby syndrome is but one aspect of this phenomenon. It is a topic in which statistics can be elusive because reported episodes may not reflect the full extent of the problem. That said, a report issued in April by a division of the Department of Health and Human Services estimated that in 2013, more than 1,500 children in the United States, or four a day, died from various forms of abuse or neglect. Nearly three-fourths of the victims were under the age of 3. (Various studies over the years have suggested that a serious threat to a small child’s well-being is the presence of the mother’s live-in boyfriend.)
但主要问题是虐待儿童。摇晃婴儿综合征只是这个现象的一个方面。在这个话题上，人们很难拿出可靠的统计数据，因为爆出来的事件，可能并不能完整地反映这个问题的程度。尽管如此，美国卫生和公众服务部(Department of Health and Human Services)的一个部门在4月发布的一份报告估计，2013年美国有1500多名儿童死于各种形式的虐待或疏忽，相当于每天四名。近四分之三的受害者不到三岁。（多年来，各种各样的研究表明，幼儿健康的一个严重威胁是母亲的同居男友。）
In the Woodward trial, a key prosecution witness was Dr. Patrick Barnes, a neuroradiologist then at Children’s Hospital in Boston, now at Stanford University. “I was adamant that it had to be child abuse, shaken baby syndrome,” Dr. Barnes told Retro Report.
在审判伍德沃德时，一名关键的检方证人是帕特里克·巴恩斯(Patrick Barnes)。巴恩斯当时是波士顿儿童医院(Children’s Hospital)的神经放射科医生，现就职于斯坦福大学。“我当时坚信肯定是虐待儿童，因为出现了摇晃儿童综合征，”巴恩斯对“历史回眸”表示。
But after the trial, he rethought his testimony and in effect became a penitent. He is now convinced that the diagnosis has been invoked too readily in criminal cases and that other causes might explain any bleeding and brain swelling. They include infections, earlier injuries from accidental falls and even strokes that occurred in utero. Other doctors who share his outlook question whether just shaking an infant, without resorting to other forms of violence, could in fact produce the triad’s telltale signs. Testing that thesis, though, may verge on the impossible: Who in the name of responsible science is about to shake a roomful of babies to see what happens?
但审判结束后，对自己的证词进行的反思，让他心生悔意。他现在相信，在刑事案件中，摇晃儿童综合征诊断法的使用太过轻率，但实际上，其他原因可能也能解释各种出血和脑肿。它们包括感染、早前意外跌倒造成的受伤乃至胎儿在子宫内遭受的血管梗塞。和他持相同观点的其他医生质疑，仅仅是摇晃婴儿而不使用其他形式的暴力，是不是真的会造成那三种遭受虐待的迹象。然而，验证这个观点几乎是不可能的：谁会以负责任的科学的名义，去摇晃一屋子的婴儿，看会出现什么情况？
Without question, Dr. Barnes said, abuse exists, “and we have to do our duty to protect children.” But families need protection, too, he said, and in some criminal cases, “there is no doubt that errors have been made and injustices have resulted.” Were he able to testify again in the Woodward trial, he said, he would say that the medical findings do not confirm abuse and that the baby’s injuries “could have been accidental.”
巴恩斯说，毫无疑问，虐待真实存在，“我们必须承担起保护儿童的责任。”但他说，家庭也需要保护，而在一些刑事案中，“毫无疑问出现了错误，造成了不公正”。他说，如果能再次在伍德沃德案中作证，他会说，医疗结果不能证实发生了虐待，孩子的伤“可能是意外造成的”。
One of the more exhaustive studies of shaken baby syndrome’s legal ramifications was conducted by The Washington Post and journalists from the Medill Justice Project at Northwestern University. In March, they published their analysis of about 1,800 abuse cases across the country that had reached resolution since 2001. Far more often than not — 1,600 cases — the result was a conviction. But the researchers found that in 200 cases, a substantial number, charges were dropped or dismissed, defendants were acquitted or convictions were overturned. The Retro Report video examines one such instance, involving Quentin Stone, a California man whom a jury last year cleared of charges that he had violently shaken his 3-month-old son to death.
在对摇晃婴儿综合征的法律影响进行的较为全面的研究中，其中一项是由《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)和西北大学梅迪尔清白项目(Medill Justice Project at Northwestern University)的记者合作完成的。在3月，他们发表了对2001年以来全国已达成决议的大约1800起虐待案件的分析。通常情况下——1600起案件——判决结果都是有罪。但研究人员发现，在数量可观的200起案件中，指控被撤销或驳回，被告罪名不成立，或是判决被推翻。“历史回眸”在视频中研究了其中一起案件。该案的当事人是加利福尼亚州男子昆廷·斯通(Quentin Stone)。去年，陪审团裁定，对他剧烈摇晃自己三个月大的儿子致其死亡的指控不成立。
Not that the medical establishment is starting to line up on Dr. Barnes’s side. Far from it. Dr. Robert W. Block, a former president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, stands firmly by the diagnosis, telling Retro Report that abusive head trauma is supported by decades of observation.
并不是说医学权威开始站在巴恩斯的一边。根本不是这样。前美国儿科学会(American Academy of Pediatrics)会长罗伯特·W·布洛克(Robert W. Block)就坚定地支持摇晃儿童综合征诊断法。布洛克对“历史回眸”表示，虐待性头部创伤有几十年观察的支撑。
The divisions within the medical world run so deep that they pain a towering figure on this issue: Dr. A. Norman Guthkelch, a British doctor who in 1971 found a connection between baby-shaking and brain injury. “There are cases where people on both sides, both of whom I admire equally, are barely able to speak to one another, and that’s a shame,” Dr. Guthkelch, who turned 100 this month, told NPR in 2011. Yet he, too, has come to believe that the syndrome is applied too loosely in some criminal cases.
医学界内部的分歧如此之深，以致这个问题方面的泰斗人物、英国医生A·诺曼·古特克尔希(A. Norman Guthkelch)感到心痛。1971年，正是他发现了脑损伤和摇晃婴儿之间的关联。“有些案件中，双方我都同样欣赏，但他们几乎无法交流，太遗憾了，”本月已满100岁的古特克尔希曾在2011年对全国公共广播电台（NationalPublic Radio，简称NPR）表示。但他也慢慢相信，在部分刑事案件中，摇晃婴儿综合征被用得太宽泛了。
As the debate continues, Louise Woodward has carved out a new life in Shropshire, in central England, where she teaches dance. Married, she has a baby of her own now, a girl born 20 months ago. Even before her pregnancy, she was quoted as telling The Daily Mail: “I know there are some people waiting for me to have a baby so they can say nasty things. It upsets me, but that is not going to stop me leading my life. I am innocent. I have done nothing wrong.”
争论仍在继续，而路易丝·伍德沃德已经开启了新的生活。她现在居于英格兰中部的施罗普希尔，教授舞蹈，她已经结婚，并在20个月前有了自己的孩子，一个女儿。早在怀孕前，伍德沃德就对《每日邮报》(The Daily Mail)表示：“我知道一些人在等着我生孩子，这样他们就能对我恶语相加了。这种情况让我感到难过，但它不会阻止我过自己的生活。我是无辜的。我没做错什么。”