BEIJING — At first, Cindy Zhang, like millions of other Chinese parents, thought her problems had been solved.
北京——像数百万其他中国家长一样，辛迪·张(Cindy Zhang)一开始也以为自己的问题解决了。
For three years, she and her husband had worried about the status of their younger child, Tutu. He was born outside the one-child limit China set for most urban couples and lacked a hukou, the crucial household registration document all citizens need to attend state schools, receive health care, marry, open a bank account or even buy train tickets.
过去三年，她和丈夫一直为小儿子图图（Tutu，音）的身份问题担忧。图图出生的时候，中国还在实行适用于大多数城市夫妇的一胎政策，因此他属于计划外生育，没有户口。户口至关重要，所有中国公民都要有它才能上公立学校，享受医疗保险，结婚，开立银行账户，甚至买火车票也需要这种身份证明。
Beijing officials had told Ms. Zhang and her husband that their son would not receive a hukou unless they first paid a fine for having violated the family planning law, 300,000 renminbi, or about $45,000, which the family could not afford.
北京的官员告诉张女士和她的丈夫，如果他们想给儿子上户口，必须先缴纳违反计划生育政策的30万元罚款，但他们交不出这么多钱。
Then last month came what seemed like good news: The State Council, China’s cabinet, ordered local governments to come up with measures to register all citizens. The Jan. 14 directive said the hukou was a “basic right of citizens” and barred local governments from imposing any conditions that would prevent citizens from registering.
上个月似乎传来了好消息：国务院下令，各地方政府要想办法解决所有居民的户口登记问题。这份于1月14日发布的文件表示户口是“公民的一项基本权利”，并禁止地方政府设立任何条件，阻碍居民上户口。
Coming after China’s new family planning rules had taken effect, which allow all couples to have two children, the hukou directive brought sighs of relief from Ms. Zhang and many other parents whose children could finally come out of the shadows.
这份文件出台于中国实施允许一对夫妇生育两个子女的新计划生育政策之后。它让张女士等家长如释重负，他们的孩子终于可以走出没有身份的阴影了。
“I was very excited when I saw the State Council directive,” Ms. Zhang said.
“刚看到国务院那个文件时，我特别激动，”张女士说。
But instead of clearing up the issue for the estimated 13 million Chinese who lack hukous, 60 percent of whom were born outside the one-child limit, the State Council directive has left many parents of unregistered children confused and fearful. They worry that they will still be asked to pay a fine. And they fear that if they request a hukou for a child who was not previously declared, they will be handing officials information that could be used to penalize them for violating the previous family planning rules.
不过，国务院发布的这份文件并没有解决1300万“黑户”——60%为超生人员——的身份问题，反倒让很多没有给孩子上户口的家长陷入迷惑和担忧。他们担心，自己依然会被要求缴纳罚款。他们还怕，如果给之前不曾登记的孩子申请户口，他们给政府官员提交的信息可能会被用来对自己进行处罚，因为这些信息可以证明他们之前违反了计划生育政策。
“We’re very worried and scared because we don’t know if we’ll still be asked to pay the fine,” said Ms. Zhang, 38, who asked that her full Chinese name not be used. “It could be that it will be even easier for them to fine us.”
“我们非常担心和害怕，因为不知道是不是还得交罚款，”38岁的张女士说。她要求报道时不要使用她的中文全名。“这甚至可能会让他们更容易给我们开罚款。”
“It’s really a lot of money for us,” said Ms. Zhang, who has a master’s degree in computer science and worked at a leading communications company for a decade. “It impacts a family tremendously to be fined tens of thousands.”
“对我们来说，这真的是很大一笔钱，”张女士说。她取得了计算机科学硕士学位，已经在业内领先的一家通讯公司工作了十年。“缴纳几十万元罚款，对一个家庭来说影响是巨大的。”
Some provinces have announced that while paying a fine will no longer be a precondition for obtaining a hukou, families who violated the old rules will still be required to pay fines for children they had when the rules were in effect.
一些省份已经宣布，尽管交罚款不再是上户口的一个先决条件，但之前违反旧政策的家庭，还是会被要求为新规生效之前出生的子女缴纳罚款。
In the southern province of Guangdong, public security and family planning officials said a fine would no longer be a precondition for a hukou for children born in violation of the national policy, The Southern Metropolis Daily reported. However, their families would still have to pay fines for those children or risk being taken to court.
据《南方都市报》报道，华南省份广东的公安厅和卫计委官员表示，政策外小孩可以先办入户。不过，他们的家长还是得缴纳罚款，否则有可能会被起诉。
In Jiangxi Province in 2014, the provincial government had similarly declared that it would not make paying the fine a prerequisite for getting a hukou. But some families who registered children born in violation of the policy were forced to pay afterward.
江西省政府同样在2014年宣布，缴纳罚款将不再是上户口的先决条件。但江西一些给孩子上户口的“超生”家庭，后来还是被强制征收了社会抚养费。
Government officials in Beijing and many other parts of China have yet to disclose how they plan to carry out the new hukou directive and whether fines will be imposed retroactively.
北京及其他省市的政府官员还没有透露，他们打算如何执行国务院的新指示，也没有表示，之前违反旧计划生育政策的家庭是否还会被罚款。
“I’m now worried the local government might use the new directive as a trap to fine us once they learn we have a second child,” said a 43-year-old Beijing resident who asked that only his surname, Cheng, be used because he has not gone to the authorities to register his second child, who was born in July.
“我现在担心地方政府可能拿新文件给我们设套，一旦他们知道我们生了第二胎，就给我们开罚款，”一位43岁的北京居民说道。他要求只用程先生来称呼他，因为自第二个孩子在去年7月出生以来，他一直没有去当地机关给孩子上户口。
Mr. Cheng’s wife was fired from her job at a state-owned company after the couple, both in their 40s, decided not to terminate her pregnancy.
程先生和妻子都是40多岁，他妻子在一家国有企业工作。在夫妇二人决定不终止二胎妊娠之后，他的妻子因此被辞退。
Officials at the Chaoyang District Family Planning Commission in Beijing, which had demanded more than 300,000 renminbi from Ms. Zhang and her husband, said they were awaiting instructions from the Beijing Municipal Family Planning Commission on how to proceed under the State Council directive.
之前要求张女士和丈夫缴纳30多万元罚款的北京市朝阳区计生办的官员表示，他们还在等待北京市卫生和计划生育委员会发出有关在国务院新指示下如何继续工作的指令。
A woman who answered the phone at the municipal commission said it had followed orders from the Beijing municipal government, and the government’s current position was that families whose second children were born before Jan. 1, when the two-children policy took effect, had violated the law and should be fined.
北京计生委的一名女士在电话中表示，之前该机构一直遵循北京市政府的指令，市政府目前的指示是，在2016年1月1日，即二胎政策生效的时间之前生育二胎的家庭，违反了原先的计划生育政策，应该缴纳罚款。
Ma Li, a member of the State Council who specializes in population, told Beijing Youth Daily that although every citizen should have a hukou, violations of the family planning policy should still be punished.
从事人口问题研究的国务院参事马力在接受《北京青年报》采访时表示，尽管所有公民都应该有户口，但违反计划生育政策依然要被惩罚。
Now that the hukou can no longer be withheld to pressure parents to pay the fine, formally called the social support fee, Ms. Ma said, “collecting the social support fee will be even harder.” In the future, she said, there might be policies to empower the courts to help collect the fines.
既然政府机关不能再借不给上户口向家长施压，要求缴纳官方称为“社会抚养费”的罚款，马力表示，“社会抚养费的征收任务会更重。”她还表示，未来可能会出台一些具体措施，走法律程序，由法院帮助收缴罚款。
Such penalties have long provided an important source of revenue for China’s local family planning commissions. State news media reported in 2013 that the fines brought in at least $3 billion a year.
长期以来，这些罚款一直是中国各地方计生部门的重要收入来源。官方媒体曾在2013年报道，这项罚款每年至少为他们带来30亿美元收入。
The National Health and Family Planning Commission did not respond to questions for this article that were submitted, as requested, by fax. A spokesman for the commission did not answer repeated calls to his cellphone.
中国国家卫生和计划生育委员会没有回应《纽约时报》就这篇报道提出的问题。按照其要求，这些问题是通过传真发送的。时报记者多次拨打该委员会一名发言人的电话，但对方并未接听。
Ms. Zhang and her husband worry about what will happen when Tutu is old enough for school. If he has a hukou, but they have not paid the fine, will he be accepted? They have already had to leave him behind when they travel with his sister, because they cannot buy him a train ticket.
张女士和她丈夫担心，到了图图该上学的时候，会不会出现什么问题。如果他有户口，但他们不曾为他缴纳罚款，学校会接收他吗？之前他们带姐姐出门的时候，就已经不得不把图图留下，因为没办法给他买火车票。