MOSCOW — As many Russians spent a holiday weekend reveling in the annual display of military might that marks their victory over Nazi Germany, the tension in Ukraine has fueled a passionate debate over how to exalt the country’s history without distorting it.
莫斯科——当许多俄罗斯人在周末的节日观看年度阅兵仪式，庆祝对纳粹德国的胜利时，乌克兰的紧张局势激起了一番激烈的辩论，其议题是如何在不扭曲事实的情况下称颂俄罗斯的历史。
The issue took on greater urgency with a new law, signed last week by President Vladimir V. Putin, that mandates up to five years in jail and heavy fines for anyone who tries to rehabilitate Nazism or denigrate Russia’s World War II record.
上周，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)签署了一项新法律，规定可对试图恢复纳粹主义或诋毁俄罗斯二战记录的任何个人，处以最高五年的监禁。这部法律让相关议题的紧迫性进一步加强。
The Kremlin has long enshrined the history of the war against Hitler as a heroic, collective victory. But skeptics argue that the victory itself is too often used to promote what they consider an excessive obsession with fascism abroad — vividly played out over the past two months in lurid coverage on Russian state television of the Ukraine crisis.
长期以来，克里姆林宫将对抗希特勒的历史奉为英勇的集体胜利。不过，质疑者认为，这场胜利本身太过频繁地被用来做宣传，而在他们眼中，这种宣传所鼓动的是对海外法西斯主义的过度执迷——在过去两个月俄罗斯官方电视台对乌克兰危机的耸动报道中，这一点鲜明地显露出来。
Some argue that the fixation distorts history, playing down the darker aspects of the Soviet Union’s role in World War II and obliterating honest discussion of foreign policy issues.
一些人提出，这种迷恋曲解了历史，淡化了二战中苏联所起作用的黑暗面，阻碍了对外交政策议题的真诚探讨。
Those critics — an array of historians, analysts and commentators — trace the obsession with defeating fascism to Mr. Putin’s determination to burnish the Soviet past and restore Russia’s role as a global power. For the May 9 Victory Day celebrations, Moscow was festooned with giant red stars, the symbol of the army and the entire World War II victory, just as it was in Soviet times.
这些批评意见来自一些历史学者、分析人士与媒体评论员。他们把对击败法西斯的迷恋，追溯到普京要美化苏联历史、重塑俄罗斯全球大国地位的决心。为了5月9日的胜利日庆典，莫斯科各处装饰了巨大的红五星——军队与整个二战胜利的象征——与苏联时期别无二致。
The current debate about fascism erupted with the publication of an article comparing Russia’s incorporation of Crimea to the Anschluss, Hitler’s annexation of a receptive Austria and other German lands in 1938. That prompted a defender of Mr. Putin to respond with an article suggesting that Hitler before 1939 might be considered “the good Hitler.”
目前关于法西斯主义的争论随着一篇文章的发表而爆发。文中将俄罗斯对克里米亚的吞并比作1938年希特勒导演并为奥地利所接受的德奥合并。此文一出，激起了一名普京捍卫者的回应，此人撰文指出，1939年以前的希特勒或许可以被视为“好希特勒”。
Then came the new law. Historians assailed it as dangerously vague and an attempt more to make a cult of the past than to protect it.
然后，新法律问世了。一些历史学者抨击该法含混不清，颇为危险，而且此举不是为了保护历史，而是要将历史变为狂热崇拜。
“The victory has replaced the memory of the war,” said a historian, Nikita Sokolov. “The real experience of the war and the history of the people’s war has been squeezed out of the collective memory.”
“胜利取代了对战争的记忆，”历史学者尼基塔·索科洛夫(Nikita Sokolov)说，“战争中的真实经历和人民战争的历史被集体记忆排除在外。”
The Communist Party may no longer rule, but on the 69th anniversary of Nazi Germany’s defeat, the myth the party formulated — that once upon a time the Russian people and its leadership saved the world from fascism through virtually superhuman sacrifice and struggle — lives on, he said.
他还表示，共产党或许是下台了，但在纪念战胜纳粹德国69周年时，党打造的神话——想当年，通过几近超人的牺牲与奋斗，俄罗斯人民及其领导人将全世界从法西斯手中拯救出来——仍然大行其道。
“It was the great victory achieved through the great effort of the people of the country, under the guidance of the Communist Party,” Mr. Sokolov said. “With certain modifications this ideology is being used by the modern leadership of Russia. It is not an accident.”
“在共产党的领导下，人民经过巨大努力，取得了伟大的胜利，” 索科洛夫说，“稍加改造，这种意识形态就被俄罗斯当代领导人利用起来。这并非巧合。”
There is historical consensus that the Soviet defeat of Hitler was indeed a turning point in the war. Germany’s downfall was also the apex of the Soviet Union’s showdown with Western power, even if Moscow fought the same enemy as the United States and Britain.
苏联战胜希特勒的确是二战的转折点，这是历史共识。不过，德国的失败同样也是苏联与西方大国角立的高峰，虽说莫斯科当时在战场上的敌人也是美英的敌人。
So as Mr. Putin seeks to rebuild his and Russia’s reputation, historians said, every foreign policy issue is reshaped to resemble the fall of the Third Reich. No matter what the conflict, Mr. Putin’s government links itself to that 1945 victory by proclaiming that the defeat of fascism is Russia’s raison d’être.
因此，有历史学者认为，当普京试图重建自己及俄罗斯的声誉时，每项外交议题都遭改头换面，以与第三帝国的崩溃类比。无论有何冲突，普京政府都将1945年的胜利揽在自己身上，宣称战胜法西斯是俄罗斯存在的理由。
Andrei Zubov, a philosophy professor who wrote the opinion piece comparing Russia’s annexation of Crimea to the Anschluss, also warned that like many Russians right now, Nazi-era Germans were thrilled that the world suddenly feared and respected them anew.
哲学教授安德雷·祖博夫(Andrei Zubov)撰写了这篇把俄罗斯对克里米亚的吞并与德奥合并相提并论的观点文章。祖博夫也警告说，现在的许多俄罗斯人就像纳粹时期的德国人一样，因为世界突然再次对自己感到敬畏而颇为兴奋。
For his efforts, he was first admonished, then fired from the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, a university tied to the Foreign Ministry. In an interview, Mr. Zubov said he was expelled for “immoral deeds,” which usually involves matters like sexual harassment. He has since been reinstated, although on sabbatical, and Mr. Zubov said he expected that his contract would not be renewed when it expires on June 30.
由于祖博夫发表的言论，他首先被警告，后被莫斯科国立国际关系学院(Moscow State Institute of International Relations)解雇。该校隶属俄罗斯外交部。祖博夫在一次采访中说，他是因为“行为不道德”而被解雇的，这种理由往往与性骚扰等行为有关。他目前已被复职，但仍未开始工作。祖博夫说，他预计今年6月30日劳动合同到期时，学校就不会再与他续签。
His comparison prompted objections, naturally, but the most contentious response appeared on the pages of the pro-Kremlin newspaper Izvestia. It was written by Andranik Migranyan, who runs the Manhattan office of the Institute for Democracy and Cooperation, a nongovernmental organization inspired by Mr. Putin’s wish to promote Russia in the West.
他的对比毫无疑问引发了一些抗议，而最激烈的反应则来自亲政府的《消息报》(Izvestia)上的一篇文章。文章的作者是安德拉尼克·米格拉尼扬(Andranik Migranyan)，民主与合作研究所(Institute for Democracy and Cooperation)曼哈顿办公室的负责人。这是一家非政府机构，是依照普京在西方宣传俄罗斯的意愿成立的。
The article attacked Mr. Zubov as “hell-spawn” and suggested that if Hitler had only stopped in 1939, he would be considered a “good Hitler.”
这篇文章攻击了祖博夫，称他是“地狱的孽种”，并暗示如果只看1939年以前发生的事，希特勒可以被视为“好希特勒”。
“One should distinguish the difference between Hitler before 1939 and Hitler after 1939 and separate chaff from grain,” Mr. Migranyan wrote. If Hitler had stopped after the “bloodless” reunification of German lands, including Austria and the Sudetenland, with the mother country, “he would have gone down in the history of his country as a politician of the highest order.”
米格拉尼扬写道，“人们应该把1939年之前的希特勒和1939年之后的希特勒区别开来，分清好坏。”如果希特勒在兵不血刃地统一了德国领土——包括奥地利和苏台德地区——之后就此收手，那么“他会作为一个最高层次的政治家，在德国被载入史册。”
Flabbergasted intellectuals pointed out that by 1939 Hitler had already established Dachau, organized Kristallnacht and promulgated the Nuremberg laws that enshrined the superiority of the Aryan race.
此论一出，一些知识分子惊诧莫名，他们指出，到1939年，希特勒已经建立了达豪集中营，组织了“水晶之夜”的袭击行动，颁布了“纽伦堡法案”，将非犹太民族白种人的优越性写入法律。
“Just when you think Vladimir Putin’s propaganda cannot sink any lower, it invariably does,” wrote Vladimir Kara-Murza in a blog posting for the World Affairs Journal.
弗拉基米尔·卡拉-穆尔扎(Vladimir Kara-Murza)在《世界事务学刊》(World Affairs Journal)的一篇博客文章中写道，“就在你认为弗拉基米尔·普京的宣传水平已经低到不能再低时，它总是还能跌得更低。”
Into the fray stepped Irina Yarovaya, a United Russia lawmaker who often generates the ideological laws that buttress Mr. Putin’s positions. In a speech to Parliament, she criticized attempts to “slander a country that in fact defended its sovereignty, like, for example, the U.S.S.R., which even hypothetically could not be part of the Hitler coalition and played a decisive role in the anti-Hitler coalition to protect the world and humanity from fascism and, as you remember, suffered big losses in that war.”
卷入这场争论的还有伊琳娜·亚罗瓦娅(Irina Yarovaya)，统一俄罗斯党(United Russia)议员。她经常编制一些意识形态方面的法律，来支持普京的主张。在向议会发表演讲时，她谴责说，“一些人企图诋毁那些实际上在捍卫自己主权的国家，比如苏联。它绝不是希特勒联盟的一部分，而且在反希特勒的联盟中扮演了关键性角色，从而保护世界和人类不受法西斯主义的残害，你们应该记得，苏联在那场战争中承受了巨大的损失。”
Historians objected to the fact that the law she introduced penalizes anyone who distorts the Soviet role in defeating Nazism, contains vague terminology, and criminalizes things like “the desecration of symbols of Russia’s military glory,” without defining what the terms mean. It makes no mention of how distortions would be determined.
她提出的法律规定，任何歪曲苏联在战胜纳粹的过程中所扮演角色的人，都将受到惩罚。法律中还包含了一些模糊的术语，并且禁止“对俄罗斯军队荣耀的标志进行亵渎”等活动，但却不对这些术语进行定义。法律中没有说明会如何判断“歪曲”。对于这种状况，历史学家已经表达了反对。