Dr. Jock Cobb is 94 years old and lives in an Albuquerque nursing home. He has had a long and fascinating life, yet it all might have been quite different if he had not met a girl, many years ago, and followed her to Mexico.
乔克·科布博士(Jock Cobb)现年94岁，居住在新墨西哥州阿尔伯克基的一所疗养院。他的一生漫长而有趣，不过，要不是多年前遇见了一个女孩并追随她去了墨西哥，或许一切都会迥然不同。
He was fresh out of Harvard in 1941 when he accompanied a young woman to Mexico to help with earthquake relief through a Quaker aid effort. As war raged on the other side of the world, he was taken by the Quakers’ philosophy of nonviolence. But Dr. Cobb knew he would be drafted into the military when he returned to the United States.
1941年，刚从哈佛大学(Harvard University)毕业的科布陪着一个年轻姑娘去了墨西哥，通过贵格会(Quaker)的援助项目参与地震救援活动。世界的另一边正战火纷飞，他却对贵格会的非暴力理念着了迷。不过他心知肚明，等他一回到美国就会被征召入伍。
He refused the draft and became a conscientious objector, convinced that systemic violence, even against a dark force like the Nazis, was wrong. “It was not a common thing to be a conscientious objector in World War II,” his son, Nat, said. “It was difficult, and you were discriminated against. People hated you for it.”
科布拒绝征召，成为了一名因良心拒绝服役者(conscientious objector)。他相信就算是为了对付纳粹这样的恶势力，系统性暴力也是错误的。“二战的时候拒服兵役可不是件寻常事，”他的儿子纳特(Nat)说。“很艰难，会被歧视。人们因此而怨恨你。”
Required to do alternative service, he joined an ambulance corps run by the American Field Service. He left for Egypt, taking not just his convictions, but also two cameras; the budding pacifist, it turned out, was also an aspiring photographer.
由于要求服替代役，他加入了美国战地服务团(American Field Service)下属的救护车队。动身去埃及的时候，他不仅带着自己的信念，还带了两台相机。原来这位成长中的和平主义者还有志于摄影事业。
That decision allowed him to create a trove of images documenting the war efforts in North Africa, and later, at the front lines in central Italy. He did it by converting his ambulance into a makeshift darkroom to process film and make prints away from the eyes of military censors. He scrounged film wherever he could find it, and even resorted to using 35-millimeter movie film when necessary. It was difficult to juggle his responsibilities as a driver with his role as a photographer, and sometimes, the signals got crossed.
这一决定让科布创作出了大量珍贵的影像，先后记录了北非与意大利中部前线的战事。他把自己的救护车改造成冲洗胶片的临时暗房，在部队审查员的眼皮底下冲印。他抓住一切机会搜寻胶片，必要时就连35mm的电影胶片也用。同时应付救护车司机和摄影师的工作并不是件容易的事，有时候，会相互冲突。
“I put blankets over the windows,” Dr. Cobb said. “Sometimes, we’d get called out in the middle, and I’d have to scuttle everything and throw it on the ground, and go out and save lives.”
“我往窗户上蒙上毯子，”科布说。“有时，我们会被临时征召，我就得赶紧把东西都处理掉，扔到地上，然后开出去救人。”
Dr. Cobb and his fellow ambulance drivers were officially civilians, but found themselves in the cross hairs of German artillery on many occasions. Coincidentally, he had lived in Germany as a child, and sometimes conversed in German with wounded enemy soldiers in the back of his ambulance. He observed that the doctors — especially the British physicians in North Africa — would treat the wounded, regardless of what side they were on.
科布这样的救护车司机理论上属于平民，不过他们常常会暴露在德军的炮火之下。巧的是，他小时候在德国生活过，因此有时会与救护车上的敌军伤员用德语交谈。他发现，医生们，尤其是在北非的英国医生在救助伤员的时候不分敌我。
That influenced his life tremendously, as much as his trip to Mexico had a few years earlier. Dr. Cobb was from a family of physicians, and his father was a professor at Harvard Medical School. Before shipping off to Europe, he was certain he did not want to follow in those footsteps. But he had a change of heart after witnessing the British doctors’ generosity of spirit.
与几年前的墨西哥之行一样，这一点深刻地影响了他的一生。科布出身于医学世家，父亲是哈佛医学院(Harvard Medical School)的教授。乘船前往欧洲之前，他确信自己并不想要继承家学。不过，亲眼目睹了英国医生的慷慨无私后，他改变了想法。
“I began to realize that these were the guys who were trying to put things back together,” he said. “Everybody else in the world was trying to tear everything apart.”
“我开始意识到，这些人是在努力地修复，”他说。“世界上的其他人都在努力地破坏。”
So he applied to medical school, and received his acceptance letter from Harvard via telegram while he was stationed in Italy.
于是他申请了医学院，并在派驻意大利期间收到了哈佛的电报录取函。
Eventually, he made his way home, after witnessing multiple atrocities and surviving several close calls. He wrapped his negatives in tissue paper, on which he made careful notes, and stuffed everything into a fruitcake tin. It was confiscated at Norfolk, Va., upon arrival, but was sent back to him shortly thereafter. Dr. Cobb made a few prints for family and friends, and then tucked the fruitcake tin away in a trunk.
目睹了诸多暴行并经历了几次死里逃生之后，科布最终回到了美国。他用纸巾包着底片，细心地在上面作了注释，然后全部塞进一个水果蛋糕铁盒里。抵达弗吉尼亚州诺福克的时候，铁盒被没收了，但不久后铁盒又被寄还给他。科布冲洗出一部分照片给亲友看，然后把进一个大行李箱里搁置起来。
And then he went about becoming a doctor, which he said “takes all your time and all your strength.”
接下来，科布为成为一名医生而忙碌着。用他自己的话说，这事“会耗尽你所有的时间和精力”。
Dr. Cobb spent his lengthy career in the service of others. He worked for the Indian Health Service for several years, did relief work with the World Health Organization, and settled at the University of Colorado Medical School, where he was the head of the preventive medicine department for many years. Upon his retirement, he moved to Albuquerque, where his family maintained a home, cracked open his trunk of photographic history, and rediscovered the fruitcake tin, filled with negatives.
科布将自己漫长的职业生涯用于服务他人。他曾为印第安卫生服务部门(Indian Health Service)效力数年，在世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)从事过救援工作，最终在科罗拉多大学医学院(University of Colorado Medical School)落脚，担任了多年的预防医学系主任。退休之后，他搬到了阿尔伯克基；他的家族在那里还有住房。他打开了那个装着自己的影像历史的行李箱，重新发现了塞满底片的水果蛋糕铁盒。
At that point, Dr. Cobb and his son, who was also a doctor with the Indian Health Service, decided to get his World War II photographs out into the world. They met a curator at the Albuquerque Museum of Art and History, who exhibited a few of the images and encouraged both Dr. Cobb and his son to turn the pictures into a book. They approached a family friend, Renny Russell, who had a small publishing house, and collaborated on a project that would become “Fragments of Peace in a World at War.”
到了此时，科布及其为印第安卫生服务部门做医生的儿子决定，应当把这些二战照片公之于众。他们与阿尔伯克基艺术与历史博物馆(Albuquerque Museum of Art and History)的一名策展人会面，后者展出了部分照片，并鼓励科布父子出版摄影集。于是，他们找到了拥有一家小型出版社的朋友雷尼·拉塞尔(Renny Russell)，共同策划了一个项目，后来成为《战争中的和平瞬间》(Fragments of Peace in a World at War)这本书。
During the lengthy process, Dr. Cobb realized that he had suppressed many of his memories of the worst violence. As a physician, he knew that his mind had locked away things that were too difficult to comprehend. “With a lot of pictures, I would look at them and just wouldn’t know whether I had helped a guy, or left him to die. I couldn’t remember,” he said. His son also admitted, “Both of us spent a lot of time crying in the process.”
在这个漫长的过程中，科布意识到，他之前压抑了许多的记忆，事关一些极其可怕的暴行。作为一名医生，他明白是自己的内心把难以理解的事情埋藏了起来。他说，“有很多照片，我看着的时候完全想不起来，自己到底有没有帮助里面的那个人，还是任由他死去。我没有记忆。”他的儿子也承认，“在这个过程中，我们俩都花了好多时间流泪。”
Now that the United States has been at war for 12 years, both father and son felt it was important to spread a message of peace and understanding throughout the world.
时至今日，美国已连续12年卷入战争。父子二人都认为，向全世界传递和平与理解的讯息十分重要。
“When we had the draft, it was everybody you knew who was involved, and had been there,” Nat Cobb said. “Everybody knew somebody who had been in action in Vietnam, or in World War II, at that time. It was much more a part of society, instead of this warrior class that we’ve separated off. How do you permeate that barrier? How do you get through with words and images that let people know that this is not the way to go?”
“过去征兵的时候，你认识的每个人都牵涉其中，都去过那里，”纳特说。“那时候，人人都认识什么人参加过越南行动或者二战。它占据的社会比重要大得多，不像现在，涉及的只有与我们隔离开来的战士群体。怎样才能克服这层障碍呢？怎么把语言和影像传递过去，让人们知道，战争不是解决手段呢？”
Through their efforts, the photographs are now reaching a wider audience, almost 70 years after they were taken. They are being viewed on computer technology that could not even be imagined when Dr. Cobb was roaring through Italy in his makeshift darkroom ambulance. As different as the world is now, war still remains, and he is just glad to know his voice is being heard.
在他们的努力之下，近七十年后，这些照片终于来到了广大观众的面前。它们可以借助电脑技术观看，这是科布驾驶那辆作为临时暗房的救护车在意大利穿梭的时候想也不敢想的事情。尽管世界发生了天翻地覆的变化，战争却仍然存在。世人能听到他的声音，他已经很满足。
“It has always been my hope that something like that would happen,” Dr. Cobb said.
“我一直希望，这种事情有朝一日能发生，”科布说。