There is perhaps no lost-treasure mystery more seductive than that of the priceless Amber Room of Peter the Great, which disappeared in the chaotic closing hours of World War II. Now Bartlomiej Plebanczyk, an unassuming historian and museum director in northeastern Poland, believes he has found it.
在那些失落的神秘宝藏当中，或许没有比彼得大帝价值连城的琥珀屋(Amber Room)更加神秘的了，它在“二战”行将结束时的混乱中失去了踪迹。如今，波兰东北部一家博物馆的馆长、低调的历史学家巴特洛梅伊·普莱班奇克(Bartlomiej Plebanczyk)相信自己发现了它。
Elderly villagers told Mr. Plebanczyk that they had seen a German convoy unloading big crates into a secret chamber in a stark, moss-covered Nazi bunker near the Russian border in early 1945. So the Mamerki Museum, whichhe leads, recently completed a ground-penetrating radar scan of the derelict bunker that he said confirmed the existence of a hidden chamber.
在靠近俄国边境的地方，有年长的村民们告诉普莱班奇克，1945年初，他们曾见过一个德国车队把许多板条箱运入一个覆盖着苔藓、阴暗荒凉的纳粹掩体的密室。因此，普莱班奇克所在的马默奇博物馆(Mamerki Museum)在不久前对那个废弃的掩体做了一次穿透地面的雷达扫描，他说，结果表明那里确实存在一个密室。
“This is the perfect place to hide something if you have to move it quickly out of eastern Prussia,” Mr. Plebanczyk said.
“如果你想把东西藏在一个方便你从东普鲁士迅速转移出去的地方，这里就是最佳地点，”普莱班奇克说。
Poles are used to hearing extravagant tales of lost war loot, and also to hearing the tales debunked. Last year, two men claimed to have found a buried train containing Nazi gold, but an investigation found no such thing. Despite that, war-treasure hunting is such a popular pastime in Poland that enthusiasts have their own web forum.
关于失落的赃物战利品，波兰人知道很多夸张的故事，也知道很多被戳穿的事情。去年，两个男人声称他们发现了一列被埋藏起来的火车，里面装满纳粹的黄金，但是一项调查发现根本没有这件事。此外，寻觅战争财宝在波兰早已成为一种流行的消遣，爱好者们甚至还有自己交流用的网络论坛。
The Amber Room is a singular treasure. It was originally completed in the 18th century in a palace near St. Petersburg, Russia, paneled with six tons of precious amber, elaborately carved and decorated with gold. After advancing German troops captured the palace in 1941, the 600-square-foot room was dismantled and carted off to Königsberg Castle in East Prussia, where it was later exposed to British bombs and Soviet shells. Berlin sent orders in January 1945 to evacuate high-value cultural items from the castle, but what happened after has never been clear.
琥珀屋是非常特别的宝藏。18世纪，它在位于俄罗斯圣彼得堡附近的一座宫殿之内完工，上面镶嵌了6吨重的珍贵琥珀，经过了精心雕琢，并且装点着黄金。1941年，德国士兵占领了这座宫殿，把这个占地600平方英尺（约56平方米）的房间分拆，运送到位于东普鲁士的哥尼斯堡(Königsberg Castle)，这里后来成为英军空袭与苏联炮火的目标。1945年1月，柏林下令疏散这座城堡中的珍贵文物，但接下来发生了什么就不得而知了。
The Soviets declared that the Amber Room was destroyed in April 1945, as Königsberg was falling to the Red Army, and in the 1970s they built a replica. Others said the precious amber panels had been aboard the Wilhelm Gustloff, a German military ship, when a Soviet torpedo sank it in the Baltic. Further theories abound.
1945年4月，哥尼斯堡由红军接管时，苏联方面宣布琥珀屋已被销毁，并在70年代建造了一个仿制品。也有人说，那些珍贵的琥珀嵌板被运上了德国战舰威廉·古斯特洛夫号(Wilhelm Gustloff)，它在波罗的海被苏军鱼雷击沉。此外还有其他很多猜测。
Mamerki, 60 miles south of Königsberg (now called Kaliningrad), is not an unlikely place to look. The bunker was part of a heavily fortified headquarters for German ground forces on the Eastern Front.
马默奇位于哥尼斯堡（今称加里宁格勒）以南60英里，似乎是个颇为合理的地点。这座掩体曾是德军东线地面部队固若金汤的指挥部的一部分。
So the Polish authorities plan to burrow into the bunker in the coming weeks to see what, if anything, is inside.
因此，波兰官方计划在未来几周内发掘这座掩体，看看里面究竟有没有什么东西。
Mr. Plebanczyk, the museum director, said he was quite certain they would find the Amber Room — or, “worst-case scenario,” a cache of precious paintings.
普莱班奇克馆长说，他非常肯定能够在这里找到琥珀屋——“最坏的情况”也能找到一批珍贵的油画。