MOSCOW — The 1945 disappearance of Raoul Wallenberg — a Swedish diplomat who saved thousands of Hungarian Jews from Nazi gas chambers — ranks among the most enduring mysteries of World War II.
莫斯科——劳尔‧瓦伦堡(Raoul Wallenberg)在1945年失踪，这是持续最久的二战未解之谜之一。瓦伦堡是一名瑞典外交官，曾经从纳粹毒气室解救数以千计的匈牙利犹太人。
Suspicion for the snatching of Wallenberg off the streets near Budapest fell almost immediately on the Soviet Union. To the Soviets occupying Budapest, the ties that Wallenberg had forged with senior Nazis and Americans smelled like espionage, with rescuing Jews an implausible cover story. But his disappearance went unexplained, right through the Gorbachev era of glasnost and the chaos after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
外界几乎立刻怀疑，瓦伦堡是从布达佩斯附近的街上被苏联抓走的。对于占领布达佩斯的苏联而言，瓦伦堡与纳粹高层以及美国人之间的关系看起来像是谍报活动，而对犹太人的解救则像个蹩脚的幌子。但是一直到苏联解体后的戈尔巴乔夫“公开化”和混乱时期，瓦伦堡失踪的谜底也不曾解开。
This summer, however, the newly published diaries of the original head of the KGB — found secreted inside the wall of a dacha — have shed fresh light on the case by stating outright for the first time that Wallenberg was executed in a Moscow prison.
不过，今年夏天，新近出版的克格勃(KGB)第一任领导的日记——被发现藏匿于一栋别墅的一面墙内——为这个案件提供了一些新的线索，日记中首次直接提到瓦伦堡是在莫斯科的一座监狱里被处死的。
“I have no doubts that Wallenberg was liquidated in 1947,” wrote Ivan A. Serov, a Soviet military man who ran the KGB from 1954 to 1958.
“可以肯定，瓦伦堡在1947年被除掉，”伊万·A·谢罗夫(Ivan A. Serov)写道。他是一名苏联军人，在1954至1958年间领导克格勃。
Tantalizing hints that Wallenberg, the scion of a rich, prominent family of Swedish industrialists, was imprisoned in Moscow emerged immediately, then dripped out at long intervals. Alexandra M. Kollontai, the domineering Soviet ambassador to Sweden, initially told Wallenberg’s mother that the diplomat was in custody, but backtracked after the Kremlin announced that it knew nothing of the case.
当时就立刻传出了一种容易让人相信的暗示，即瓦伦堡被囚禁在莫斯科。然后每隔很长时间之后，会再度传出这样的消息。盛气凌人的苏联驻瑞典大使亚历山大·M·利隆泰(Alexandra M. Kollontai)一开始告诉瓦伦堡的母亲他被关了起来，但在克里姆林宫宣布对这一案件一无所知之后，利隆泰又收回了之前的说法。瓦伦堡出身于一个地位崇高而又富有的瑞典工业家家族。
In the 1950s, Moscow began releasing war prisoners, and some reported meeting a VIP inmate. Some called him mysterious; some knew his name. Sweden started asking pointed questions, and seeking to improve ties, the Kremlin released a report in 1957.
上世纪50年代，莫斯科开始释放战犯，一些人称自己在狱中见过一名VIP囚犯。有人说他很神秘；有人知道他的名字。瑞典开始提出尖锐的问题。为此，克林姆林宫在1957年发布了一份报告，以试图改善关系。
It said a newly discovered, partial medical report indicated that Wallenberg, age 34, died of a heart attack in prison in July 1947 — a stock Soviet cover story.
报告称，一份最新发现的不完整的医学报告显示，瓦伦堡于1947年因心脏病在狱中去世，时年34岁。这算是典型的苏联托辞。
The next halting step toward resolution came with the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union. The Kremlin agreed to cooperate with a comprehensive Russian-Swedish effort that included archival research and interviews with retired state security employees.
有可能解决这一案件的契机在1991年苏联解体之后磕磕绊绊地到来了。克里姆林宫同意配合俄瑞两国共同进行的一项努力，包括对档案进行研究，并去采访退休的俄罗斯国家安全工作者。
But the final report in 2000 reached no definitive conclusion about Wallenberg’s fate, and found that documents had been destroyed or altered to eliminate all traces of him.
然而，2000年发布的最终报告没有就瓦伦堡的命运得出确定性的结论，而且发现相关文件已被销毁或修改，以消除任何与他有关的痕迹。
In time, Wallenberg’s rescue work became an lasting symbol of the international human rights movement, but the mystery of his fate seemed likely to endure forever — until the Serov diaries came to light.
随着时间的推移，瓦伦堡的救援行动成为了国际人权运动一个持久的象征，但有关他命运的谜团似乎永远无法解开——直到谢罗夫的日记曝光。
Memoirs from high-ranking Kremlin officials are exceedingly rare, and this one, while hardly definitive, contains several references to previously unknown documents on Wallenberg.
克里姆林宫高官的回忆录及其少见，这一本尽管谈不上最权威，但它提到了好几份之前不为人知的有关瓦伦堡的文件。
They include a report about Wallenberg’s cremation, and another quoting Viktor Abakumov, who preceded Serov as head of state security but was tried and executed in 1954 in the last Stalin purges. Abakumov apparently revealed during his interrogation that the order to “liquidate” Wallenberg had come from Stalin and Vyacheslav M. Molotov, the foreign minister.
其中包含一份瓦伦堡的火化报告。还有一份文件引用了维克托·阿巴库莫夫(Viktor Abakumov)的话，后者在谢罗夫之前担任俄罗斯国家安全机构的负责人，但之后在处于斯大林清洗运动最后阶段的1954年遭到审判，并被处死。在接受审问期间，阿巴库莫夫似乎透露了“除掉”瓦伦堡的命令来自斯大林和当时的外交部长维亚切斯拉夫·M·莫洛托夫(Vyacheslav M. Molotov)。
The word “killed” has never appeared in any official documents released from the Soviet side, according to Nikita Petrov, a historian with the Memorial organization in Moscow who specializes in the Stalinist era and Serov himself.
来自莫斯科“纪念”(Memorial)组织、专门研究斯大林时代和谢罗夫这个人的历史学家尼基塔·彼得罗夫(Nikita Petrov)表示，“杀”这个字眼从来不曾出现在苏联发布的任何官方文件中。
“They did not use this word,” Petrov said. “They said it appears he was killed, but we know nothing about this, we don’t have any documents. In Serov’s diary, you can find this word as a fact.”
“他们不用这个词，”彼得罗夫说。“他们说，他似乎被杀害了，但我们对此一无所知，我们也没有什么文件。在谢罗夫的日记中，你会发现这个词是一个事实。”
Memoirs lack the weight of official documents, Petrov noted, but Serov also described reading a Wallenberg file. Previously, the security service denied that any such files existed, according to diplomats, historians and others who have long worked on the case.
彼得罗夫指出，回忆录缺乏官方文件的份量，但谢罗夫也描述了他读到的一份有关瓦伦堡的文件。外交官、历史学家和其他长期为此案努力的人员表示，之前俄罗斯安全部门一直否认存在这样的文件。
“There should have been a personal or prisoner file which was created for every prisoner,” said Hans Magnusson, a retired senior diplomat who directed the Swedish side of the Swedish-Russian Working Group. “The Russians said that they did not find one.”
“每名囚徒都应该有一份个人档案或者囚犯档案，”退休的高级外交官汉斯·马格努松(Hans Magnusson)说。他是瑞典-俄罗斯工作组的瑞方负责人。“俄罗斯人说他们没找到。”
The Serov book is called “Notes From a Suitcase: Secret Diaries of the First KGB Chairman, Found Over 25 Years After His Death,” and appeared in Russia in June with its own extraordinary tale.
谢罗夫的这本书名为《手提箱里的记录：去世25年后，克格勃首任主席的秘密日记重见天日》(Notes From a Suitcase: Secret Diaries of the First KGB Chairman, Found Over 25 Years After His Death)，于今年6月出版。它本身就是一个非凡的故事。
Four years ago, Serov’s only grandchild, Vera Serova, 57, a retired ballet dancer, hired workers to renovate the garage at the dacha she inherited from her grandfather in northwestern Moscow. The workers demolishing the internal walls stumbled upon a few hidden suitcases.
四年前，谢罗夫唯一的直系孙辈薇拉·谢罗娃(Vera Serova)雇了工人翻新她从祖父那里继承而来的位于莫斯科西北面的一栋别墅的车库。她现年57岁，是退休的芭蕾舞演员。拆除内墙的工人们意外发现了几个隐藏的手提箱。
“They thought it was money or gold, but it was only papers,” she said in an interview, flashing a smile.
“他们以为装的是钱或者金子，结果只有纸，”谢罗娃接受采访的时候露出了笑容。
Petrov said the suitcases probably went into the wall around 1971, when the Central Committee first got wind of the writing project and had Serov followed.
彼得罗夫表示，这几个手提箱很可能是在1971年前后藏到墙里的。当时，中央委员会开始听到这一写作计划的风声，让人跟踪谢罗夫。
Serova turned over a copy of the diaries to a publisher, who condensed them into a single, 632-page volume. The book was released in conjunction with a small museum exhibition curated by the Russian Military-Historical Society.
谢罗娃将一份日记稿送到了出版社那里，由他们将其浓缩成一册632页的书。发行的同时，还有俄罗斯军事-历史学会(Russian Military-Historical Society)策划的一个小型博物馆展览被推出。
In the half-dozen pages devoted to the Wallenberg case — somewhat sketchy and written in dry, bureaucratic language — Serov said Nikita S. Khrushchev, who succeeded Stalin as Soviet leader, had asked him to investigate what happened, respond to Sweden and help purge Molotov.
书中有六七页专门讲述了瓦伦堡案——有些简略，用词干巴巴，打着官腔。谢罗夫表示，斯大林之后继承苏联领导人职位的尼基塔·S·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita S. Khrushchev)请他调查此事、对瑞典做出回应并协助清洗莫洛托夫。
Serov wrote that ultimately he failed to uncover the full circumstances of Wallenberg’s death, and found no evidence that he had been a spy.
谢罗夫写道，他最终未能还原瓦伦堡之死的全貌，也没有发现他生前是间谍的证据。
Foreign governments and researchers have long suspected that Moscow was withholding documents, unwilling to confirm that Stalin would coldbloodedly order the murder of a foreign diplomat rather than admit that the Kremlin had been lying.
外国政府与研究人员长期怀疑，莫斯科对资料有所保留，不愿确认斯大林会冷血地下令杀害一名外国外交官，也不肯承认克里姆林宫一直在撒谎。
The most important document never released is a letter from Abakumov to Molotov on July 17, 1947, which researchers believe contains the details of Wallenberg’s death.
在从未公开的资料中，最为重要的一份是阿巴库莫夫于1947年7月17日写给莫洛托夫的一封信。研究人员认定，里面包含了瓦伦堡之死的细节。
In the archival material that was released, researchers found a note scrawled in the bottom corner of another letter saying that “Ab,” or Abakumov, wrote a personal letter to Molotov and giving the document’s reference number.
在已公布的档案资料中，研究人员发现，另一封信底部的角落里有一句注释，其中表示“阿巴”——即阿巴库莫夫——给莫洛托夫写了一封私人信件，并给出了这份文件的参考编号。
Letter 3044/a was listed in a KGB register of outgoing letters, according to the Russian-Swedish report, showing that it was despatched on July 17 and indicating that it concerned Wallenberg.
根据俄罗斯-瑞典联合撰写的报告，信件3044/a列在了克格勃的一个发出信件的登记簿上，显示发送时间为7月17日，内容与瓦伦堡有关。
A different memo said it had been received. But the actual letter has never been found.
另一份备忘录称，这封信已收到。但信本身从未被找到。
Last year, historians with long experience on the case organized the Raoul Wallenberg Research Initiative, a renewed, international attempt to comb the archives, and they have compiled a 33-page list of questions for the Russian government.
去年，在本案上有长期经验的一些历史学者组织了劳尔‧瓦伦堡研究倡导计划(Raoul Wallenberg Research Initiative)。这是一项新的国际努力，旨在梳理各种档案。他们还准备了一份面向俄罗斯政府的问题单子，长达33页。
The media office of the FSB did not immediately respond to questions about whether it would release the documents Serov mentioned or cooperate with renewed research.
当被问到，是否会公布谢罗夫提到的文件或与新的研究计划进行合作时，俄罗斯联邦安全局(FSB)的媒体办公室没有立即予以回应。