Visiting the remote Western Pacific site of one of the fiercest battles of World War II, Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko of Japan offered flowers and prayers on Thursday to mark the coming 70th anniversary of the end of a conflict that continues to haunt Japan as it seeks a larger role in the world.
周四，在二战结束70周年即将到来之际，日本明仁天皇(Emperor Akihito)和美智子皇后(Empress Michiko)前往西太平洋的二战最惨烈战场献花与祈祷。此时的日本希望能在世界上发挥更大作用，同时却仍然笼罩在那场战争的阴影之下。
The short trip by the imperial couple to Peleliu, a small island that is now a popular diving spot in the Republic of Palau, is part of Japan’s broader efforts to commemorate the approaching anniversary of its defeat by the American-led allies on Aug. 15, 1945. During their three hours here, the emperor and empress braved a harsh tropical sun to pay solemn tribute at the separate memorials erected to the 10,200 Japanese soldiers and 1,600 Americans who died here.
天皇夫妇在贝里琉岛进行了短暂逗留，这个小岛目前是帕劳共和国一个潜水胜地。此次访问是日本为迎接即将到来的二战纪念日展开的众多活动的一部分。1945年8月15日，日本被美国领导的同盟国打败。在那里逗留的三个小时里，天皇和皇后顶着强烈的热带阳光，在为丧生于此的10200名日本士兵和1600名美国人分别设立的两块纪念碑前，举行了庄严的致敬仪式。
In that battle in 1944, the outnumbered Japanese defenders fought tenaciously in the name of Emperor Akihito’s father, Emperor Hirohito, earning Peleliu the nickname “the Emperor’s island.” Today, residents still find bones of Japanese soldiers in the caves where they battled to the last man.
在1944年的那场战斗中，人数处于劣势的日本守军以明仁天皇的父亲裕仁天皇(Emperor Hirohito)的名义顽强抵抗，为贝里琉岛赢得了“天皇之岛”的别称。日本士兵在这些洞穴里战至最后一人。当地居民至今仍然能在洞里找到日本士兵的骸骨。
“We believe that we must never forget that those beautiful islands in the Pacific Ocean have such a tragic history,” Emperor Akihito, 81, said on Wednesday as he boarded a plane in Tokyo for a two-day visit to Palau.
周三，81岁的明仁天皇在东京登机前往帕劳时说，“我们认为，我们永远不能忘记太平洋的这些美丽岛屿上所存在的如此惨痛的历史。”他将对帕劳进行为期两天的访问。
Yet, it is precisely the perception that Japan is having trouble remembering the darker episodes of the war that is hurting relations with its two closest neighbors, China and South Korea, and raising concerns in the United States, which became its closest ally after the war. The source of these doubts has not been the emperor, who has called for remembering the suffering caused by the war, but Japan’s right-leaning prime minister, Shinzo Abe, who has at times appeared less apologetic about his nation’s wartime militarism.
然而，令日本与两个最近邻国——中国和韩国——产生芥蒂，也令战后成为亲密盟友的美国感到担忧的，恰恰是日本给人留下的一种印象：它似乎时常会忘记这些战争中的黑暗片段。这些担忧并非因呼吁莫忘战争苦难的天皇而起，而是来自日本的右倾首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)。对于日本战时的军国主义，他有时似乎并没有表现出多少歉意。
Though Mr. Abe has expressed public remorse for the war, suspicions that he remains an unrepentant revisionist at heart have dogged his efforts to give his long-passive nation a more assertive regional role. The leaders of both China and South Korea, two former victims of Japan’s early 20th-century empire-building, have so far refused to hold full-blown summit meetings with Mr. Abe, though observers point out that they may also be pandering to anti-Japanese sentiments at home in order to bolster their own political support.
安倍晋三曾公开对二战表示忏悔，但人们怀疑，他内心深处仍然是个执迷不悟的历史粉饰主义者，这对他实现自己的设想——让日本扮演更重要的地区角色——是不利的。20世纪初，在日本建立帝国的过程中，中国和韩国都是受害者。中韩两国的领导人至今仍拒绝与安倍晋三举行全面首脑会议。不过观察人士指出，他们或许是为了迎合国内的反日情绪，以巩固自己在政治上得到的支持。
Still, analysts say Mr. Abe and his government have not helped by sending mixed signals about their stance on the war as the anniversary approaches. Though Mr. Abe has said he will uphold Japan’s past apologies for its wartime aggression, he has also added the vague qualifier that he wants to uphold them “as a whole,” leaving room for suspicion that he may try to water down those parts of previous statements of remorse.
然而，分析人士表示，随着纪念日临近，安倍晋三及其政府在战争问题上的立场显得模糊不清，这种行为无益于问题的解决。虽然安倍晋三曾表示，他承认日本过去对战时侵略行为的道歉，但他还加上了模糊的限定语，即他想把它们“作为整体”来承认，人们由此怀疑，他可能会试图淡化之前的忏悔声明的某些内容。
“Abe himself has sown a lot of doubts about Japan’s intentions,” said Jennifer Lind, an expert on Asia’s history disputes at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire. “It’s ironic that while he wants to be this forward-looking nationalist who is building up Japan’s power, he keeps putting history on the agenda by denying the past.”
“人们对日本的意图的疑虑，很多是安倍自己挑起来的，”新罕布什尔州达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth College)研究亚洲历史争议的专家珍妮弗·林德(Jennifer Lind)说。“正在加强日本力量的他想成为一个向前看的民族主义者，但却不断通过否认过去，把历史问题提到议程中来，这很讽刺。”
These days, clashes over history seem to have become an all too common occurrence between Japan and its close neighbors. Earlier this week, South Korea and China criticized moves by the Japanese Education Ministry to force publishers of middle-school textbooks to recast descriptions of sensitive episodes in history to conform to the official stance of Mr. Abe’s government.
近日，日本与其近邻似乎经常因为历史问题而发生冲突。本周早些时候，针对日本文部科学省(Japanese Ministry of Education and Science)强迫中学教科书出版商改写敏感历史事件的描述，以契合安倍晋三政府立场的做法，韩国和中国表示了批评。
In one case, a publisher was forced to revise a section in an unreleased textbook on Korean and other women forced to work in Japanese military brothels. The publisher deleted the testimony of one of these former so-called comfort women, and instead repeated the official line that there is no written evidence that they had been forcibly abducted.
其中包括在一本尚未出版的教科书中，出版商不得不对朝鲜半岛和其他地区女性被迫在日本军队妓院工作的部分做出改写。出版商删除了其中一个曾充当所谓“慰安妇”的女性的证词，并用官方说辞取而代之，称没有书面证据证明她们是被强行绑架的。
Intense attention has also fallen on a statement that Mr. Abe is expected to release on the Aug. 15 anniversary of the war’s end, and whether it will contain the same language as statements issued by previous prime ministers on the 50th and 60th anniversaries. Those statements expressed remorse for Japan’s “colonial rule and aggression” that caused “tremendous damage and suffering to the people of many countries.”
人们还高度关注安倍晋三即将于8月15日二战结束纪念日发表的声明，以及他是否会在其中使用前任首相在二战结束50和60周年声明中的措辞。以往的声明曾表达对日本“殖民统治和侵略行为”的忏悔，承认这些做法造成了“对许多国家的人民带去了巨大的损害和苦难。”
So far, Mr. Abe has refused to specify what his anniversary statement will say. Analysts say he appears torn between more moderate voices and his political base on Japan’s far right, many of whom believe their nation was unjustly painted as the villain by the victorious Allies after the war. Those divisions have appeared in a 16-member advisory panel appointed by Mr. Abe earlier this year to help him draft the statement. The panel has had heated debates over whether to use the word “aggression” to describe Japan’s wartime expansion, according to minutes of a recent meeting.
迄今为止，安倍晋三一直拒绝透露自己会在这份声明中说些什么。分析人士说，他似乎陷入了两难，既想发出更温和的声音，又要考虑日本极右翼的政治支持者。后者中的许多人认为，日本在战后被获胜的同盟国诋毁成了坏人。在今年早些时候安倍晋三任命的一个帮助他起草声明的16人顾问小组中，也出现了这种分歧。根据最近的一份会议记录，在是否用“侵略”一词来形容日本战争时期扩张行为的问题上，顾问小组进行了激烈的辩论。
Many in the United States also want Mr. Abe to come clean on history issues during a visit later this month to Washington, where he will become the first Japanese leader to address a joint meeting of Congress. Some veterans and Korean-Americans opposed inviting Mr. Abe to speak unless he promised to admit responsibility for Japan’s wartime misdeeds.
美国的许多人还希望，安倍晋三本月晚些时候访问华盛顿期间，能够对一些历史问题做出明确表态。届时，安倍晋三将成为首位在国会联合会议上发表演讲的日本领导人。一些老兵和韩裔美国人反对邀请安倍晋三发表演讲，除非他答应承认日本在战争时期的恶行。
These demands were ultimately brushed aside by American lawmakers eager to support Japan, the United States’ largest Asian partner. Still, many in the United States and Asia will be paying close attention to what Mr. Abe says to Congress as a possible foretaste of his 70th anniversary statement.
急于支持日本这个头号亚洲伙伴的美国议员，没有理会这些要求。不过，美国和亚洲的许多人将密切关注安倍在国会的发言，从而预测他的二战结束70周年声明的内容。
American analysts and policy makers say they hope Mr. Abe makes a clear repudiation of Japan’s wartime conduct. Failing to do so, they fear, may undermine his efforts to take a leading role in Asian security by easing Japan’s self-imposed restraints on its military, something that is warmly welcomed by Washington at a time when it faces a rising China, military budget cuts and new crises in the Middle East.
美国的分析人士和政策制定者表示，他们希望安倍能够彻底否定日本在战争时期的做法。由于安倍正试图放宽日本自我施加的限制，从而在亚洲安全事务中扮演领导角色，他们担心如果做不到彻底否定，他的这项计划会受到阻碍。而正面临着中国崛起、军费预算削减和中东新危机的华盛顿，对计划是热烈欢迎的。
Disputes over history “threaten to reduce Asian appetites to work more closely with Japan,” wrote Richard Fontaine, president of the Center for a New American Security in Washington. “They also provide an opportunity for China to rally regional opposition” to a larger Japanese security role “based on a shared sense of grievance.”
围绕历史问题的争议“可能会削弱亚洲与日本开展更紧密合作的兴趣”，华盛顿的新美国安全中心(Center for a New American Security)主席理查德·丰塔涅(Richard Fontaine)写道。“还为中国提供了一个机会，让它利用共同的苦难来拉拢地区反对力量，”从而阻止日本在安全方面扮演更重要角色。
Within Japan, Mr. Abe’s inability to persuade his region that he feels a heartfelt repentance is often contrasted with the stronger displays of contrition by members of the imperial family. In February, the emperor’s son, Crown Prince Naruhito, the 55-year-old heir to the Chrysanthemum Throne, appeared to chide Mr. Abe when he said it was necessary to “correctly pass down” history to future generations.
安倍晋三无法让该地区相信他的由衷忏悔，在日本国内也常常与皇室成员表现出的更强烈的悔悟形成鲜明对比。今年2月，明仁天皇的儿子、现年55岁的菊花纹章继承人、皇太子德仁亲王说，有必要把历史“准确地传递”给子孙后代，这似乎是在对安倍晋三发出指责。
At the same time, Emperor Akihito’s visit to Palau appeared to fall in line with Mr. Abe’s efforts to raise Japan’s profile. On the first evening of the two-day trip, the emperor and empress stressed Japan’s close ties to the region during a banquet with the president of Palau, Tommy Remengesau, and the leaders of two other Pacific island nations, the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
与此同时，明仁天皇对帕劳的访问，似乎与安倍晋三提升日本影响力的目标是一致的。两日行程的第一天，在与帕劳总统汤米·雷门格绍(Tommy Remengeau)以及另外两个太平洋岛国——密克罗尼西亚联邦和马绍尔群岛共和国——的领导人的晚宴上，明仁天皇和皇后强调了日本与该地区的紧密关系。