BEIJING — A powerful earthquake that rocked a mountainous region of southwest China on Sunday killed at least 367 people and injured more than 1,800 others, according to the state news media. With dozens of people reported missing on Sunday night, the death toll was expected to rise.
北京——据中国国家媒体报道，中国西南部山区周日发生的强烈地震导致至少367人死亡，超过1800人受伤。周日夜里，仍有几十人失踪，遇难者人数预计将上升。
The earthquake, which struck at 4:30 p.m. with a reported magnitude of 6.5, was centered in Ludian County in Yunnan Province but was also felt in two adjacent provinces, according to the official news agency Xinhua.
官方媒体新华社报道说，地震的发生时间为下午4点30分，强度为6.5级，震中位于云南省鲁甸县，附近的两个省份有震感。
Residents reached by cellphone on Sunday night said that a series of aftershocks continued to jolt the region and that power remained cut off.
记者周日夜里通过电话采访到的一些居民说，当地仍在不断发生余震，供电仍然中断。
Initial news media reports said 12,000 homes had been destroyed and about 30,000 had been damaged, leaving tens of thousands of people homeless amid rainfall that was expected to continue for days. The main road leading to the most heavily affected area was initially blocked by a landslide but had been cleared by late Sunday, according to the state news media.
最初的媒体报道称，1.2万间房屋倒塌，3万间房屋受损，在预计将持续几天的大雨中，将有数以万计的民众无家可归。新华社报道说，通向受灾最严重地区的主干道起初因泥石流而中断，周日晚间，道路已经被清理出来。
Xinhua said officials from the closest city, Zhaotong, had sent more than 600 police officers and rescue workers and 12 sniffer dogs to the areas hit hardest.
新华社称，距灾区最近的城市昭通市的官员已经派出600余名公安和救援人员，以及12条搜救犬，赶赴受灾最严重的地区。
Zhang Fang, 20, a resident of Longtoushan, a village at the earthquake’s epicenter, said she had been cooking potatoes in her family’s mud-brick kitchen when the quake struck.
现年20岁的张芳是位于震中的龙头山村村民。她说，地震发生时，她正在家中的泥砖厨房里烹制土豆。
“I just fell to the ground and stayed there until the shaking stopped, and then I cried and cried,” Ms. Zhang said, speaking by cellphone from Longtoushan after emerging from her house unscathed.
“我当时就立马蹲在地上，直到地震结束我才跑出去，然后我就哭了，我真的哭了，”张芳在龙头山通过手机告诉记者。她从自家的房屋里逃了出来，安然无恙。
She said most of the buildings in her village were flattened, including an elementary school where a number of students were said to have been trapped.
她称村里大多数房屋都被夷为平地，其中包括一所小学，据称，很多学生被困在学校中。
“The school buildings here are not of good quality,” Ms. Zhang said.
张芳说，“这边的学校质量都不太好。”
Ludian County, an isolated, seismically active region with a population of 430,000, is home to a mix of ethnic groups, including members of the Miao, Zhuang and Bai minorities. It is among the poorest regions in the country.
鲁甸县是一个偏僻的地震活跃区，有43万人口，为多民族聚居地，其中包括苗族、壮族和白族。鲁甸是中国最贫穷的地区之一。
In September 2012, a 5.6-magnitude earthquake hit the same area, killing 81 people and injuring 821.
2012年9月，该地区发生了5.6级地震，造成81人死亡，821人受伤。
Li Fei, 20, a recent high school graduate from Xiaochong village, said she had been on her way home from a friend’s wedding when the quake hit.
20岁的李飞最近刚从高中毕业，地震发生时，来自小冲村的李凤参加完朋友的婚礼，正在回家的路上。