It is now a journalistic cliché to remark that George Orwell’s “1984” was “prophetic.” The novel was so prophetic that its prophecies have become modern-day prosaisms. Reading it now is a tedious experience. Against the omniscient marvels of today’s surveillance state, Big Brother’s fixtures — the watchful televisions and hidden microphones — seem quaint, even reassuring.
乔治·奥威尔的《1984》具有预见性这种话已经被媒体说滥了。这部小说的预见性非常强，里面的预言简直就是当下的庸常现实。现在再去读它，可能会觉得乏味。相较于今天的“监控国家”搞出来的让一切无所遁形的奇特发明，老大哥(Big Brother)的设备——比如具有监控功能的电幕和深藏不露的麦克风——显得颇为古朴，甚至会让人感到安心。
Everything about the world Orwell envisioned has become so obvious that one keeps running up against the novel’s narrative shortcomings.
奥威尔想象出的世界中的一切都已了无新意，于是人们很容易就会发现这部小说在叙事方面的短板。
I am more impressed with another of his oracles: the 1945 essay “You and the Atomic Bomb,” in which Orwell more or less anticipates the geopolitical shape of the world for the next half-century. “Ages in which the dominant weapon is expensive or difficult to make,” he explains, “will tend to be ages of despotism, whereas when the dominant weapon is cheap and simple, the common people have a chance ... A complex weapon makes the strong stronger, while a simple weapon — so long as there is no answer to it — gives claws to the weak.”
给我留下更深刻印象的是他的另外一个预言：在1945年的《你与原子弹》(You and the Atomic Bomb)一文中，奥威尔或多或少地预测了未来50年的世界地缘政治格局。“主流武器既昂贵又难以制造的时代常常是专制统治时代，”他解释说，“等到主流武器既便宜又易于制造的时候，普通人就有了机会……复杂的武器会让强者更强，而简单的武器——只要还没有对付它的办法——给弱势者提供了利爪。”
Describing the atomic bomb (which had only two months before been used to flatten Hiroshima and Nagasaki) as an “inherently tyrannical weapon,” he predicts that it will concentrate power in the hands of the “two or three monstrous super-states” that have the advanced industrial and research bases necessary to produce it. Suppose, he asks, “that the surviving great nations make a tacit agreement never to use the atomic bomb against one another? Suppose they only use it, or the threat of it, against people who are unable to retaliate?”
他把原子弹称为一种“天生带有专制色彩的武器”（文章发表的两个月前，广岛和长崎被原子弹夷为平地），并预言：这种武器将让权力集中在“两到三个可怕的超级大国”手里——这些国家拥有生产它所需要的先进的工业和科研设施。他在文中问道，要是“幸存的这些大国达成默契，永远都不对彼此使用原子弹呢？要是它们只用原子弹或者原子弹的震慑力来对付那些无力以牙还牙的人呢？”
The likely result, he concludes, will be “an epoch as horribly stable as the slave empires of antiquity.” Inventing the term, he predicts “a permanent state of ‘cold war,"’ a “peace that is no peace,” in which “the outlook for subject peoples and oppressed classes is still more hopeless.”
他总结说，可能的结果是，“一个像远古的奴隶制时代一样极其稳定的时代”即将到来。他发明了“冷战”一词，并预测世界将进入“一种持久的‘冷战’状态，一种没有和平的和平状态”，在这种状态下，“被统治的民族和受压迫的阶级面临着更加无望的前途。”
There are parallels between Orwell’s time and ours. For one, there has been a lot of talk about the importance of “protecting privacy” in recent months, but little about why it is important. It is not, as we are asked to believe, that privacy is inherently valuable. It is not.
奥威尔的时代和我们的时代有一些相似之处。先说第一个共同点。最近几个月来，很多人都在讨论“保护隐私”的重要性，但很少有人讨论保护隐私为什么重要。其重要性并非缘于我们一直被灌输的一个观念：隐私具有内在价值。不是因为这个。
The real reason lies in the calculus of power: the destruction of privacy widens the existing power imbalance between the ruling factions and everyone else, leaving “the outlook for subject peoples and oppressed classes,” as Orwell wrote, “still more hopeless.”
真正的原因在于权力的运算公式：隐私权的崩塌会让统治集团与其他所有人之间既有的权力不平衡更为严重，就像奥威尔所写的那样，“让被统治的民族和受压迫的阶级面临更加无望的前途”。
The second parallel is even more serious, and even less well understood. At present even those leading the charge against the surveillance state continue to treat the issue as if it were a political scandal that can be blamed on the corrupt policies of a few bad men who must be held accountable. It is widely hoped that all our societies need to do to fix our problems is to pass a few laws.
第二个共同点更为重要，但人们对它的理解甚至更为粗浅。目前，就连带头反对监控国家的那些人，也依然在把这一问题当成一桩可以归咎于少数几个家伙的邪恶政策，并认为这是必须由他们负责的政治丑闻。人们普遍希望，我们的社会只要制定一些法律条文，就可以把问题解决掉。
The cancer is much deeper than this. We live not only in a surveillance state, but in a surveillance society. Totalitarian surveillance is not only embodied in our governments; it is embedded in our economy, in our mundane uses of technology and in our everyday interactions.
病根其实比这深得多。我们不仅生活在一个监控国家里，而且生活在一个监控社会里。带有极权主义色彩的监控不是政府部门的专利；它还潜藏在经济领域，潜藏在人们对技术的日常应用以及日常交往等方面。
The very concept of the Internet — a single, global, homogenous network that enmeshes the world — is the essence of a surveillance state. The Internet was built in a surveillance-friendly way because governments and serious players in the commercial Internet wanted it that way. There were alternatives at every step of the way. They were ignored.
互联网的概念——一个把世界连接起来的单一的、全球性的、同质化的网络——道出了监控国家的本质。互联网之所以沿着一条便于监控的道路发展，是因为政府部门以及商业互联网领域的大鳄希望如此。这条道路上的每一步都可以有其他选择。它们都被忽略了。
At their core, companies like Google and Facebook are in the same business as the U.S. government’s National Security Agency. They collect a vast amount of information about people, store it, integrate it and use it to predict individual and group behavior, which they then sell to advertisers and others. This similarity made them natural partners for the NSA, and that’s why they were approached to be part of PRISM, the secret Internet surveillance program. Unlike intelligence agencies, which eavesdrop on international telecommunications lines, the commercial surveillance complex lures billions of human beings with the promise of “free services.” Their business model is the industrial destruction of privacy. And yet even the more strident critics of NSA surveillance do not appear to be calling for an end to Google and Facebook.
就其核心而言，谷歌、Facebook这样公司和美国政府的国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）处在同一个业务领域。他们收集和人有关的大量信息，存储、整合它们，用它们来预测个人和团体的行为，然后再把它们出售给广告主和其他人。这种相似性让他们成为了NSA天生的合作伙伴，这就是为什么NSA找到他们，让他们成为互联网秘密监视计划“棱镜”(PRISM)项目组成部分的原因。不同于窃听国际通信线路的情报机构，这种商业监控手法利用“免费服务”的承诺，吸引了数以十亿计的人们。他们的商业模式是行业化的隐私入侵。然而，即使是那些尖锐批评NSA监视活动的人，似乎也没有被要求关闭谷歌和Facebook。
Recalling Orwell’s remarks, there is an undeniable “tyrannical” side to the Internet. But the Internet is too complex to be unequivocally categorized as a “tyrannical” or a “democratic” phenomenon.
想想奥威尔的话，互联网存在“暴政”的一面，这是不可否认的。但互联网太复杂了，它到底是一种“暴政”现象，还是一种“民主”现象，无法被明确归类。
When people first gathered in cities, they were able to coordinate in large groups for the first time, and to exchange ideas quickly, at scale. The consequent technical and technological advances brought about the dawn of human civilization.
人们最初聚集成城市时，他们第一次获得了对大型群体进行协调的能力，以及大规模迅速交流思想的能力。随之而来的技术和技术进步带来了人类文明的黎明。
Something similar has been happening in our epoch. It is possible for more people to communicate and trade with others in more places in a single instant than it ever has been in history. The same developments that make our civilization easier to surveil make it harder to predict. They have made it easier for the larger part of humanity to educate itself, to race to consensus, and to compete with entrenched power groups.
在我们这个时代，类似的事情已经在发生。和历史上任何时期相比，目前在更多的地方，有更多的人可以随时马上与其他人沟通和交易。让我们的文明变得更加容易受到监控的发展进步，也使其变得更加难以预测。它们已经让更多的人实现了自我教育，快速达成共识，并与根深蒂固的权力集团展开较量。
This is encouraging, but unless it is nurtured, it may be short-lived.
这很令人鼓舞，但是如果不善加维护，可能只会昙花一现。
If there is a modern analogue to Orwell’s “simple” and “democratic weapon,” which “gives claws to the weak” it is cryptography, the basis for the mathematics behind Bitcoin and the best secure communications programs. It is cheap to produce: cryptographic software can be written on a home computer. It is even cheaper to spread: software can be copied in a way that physical objects cannot. But it is also insuperable — the mathematics at the heart of modern cryptography are sound, and can withstand the might of a superpower. The same technologies that allowed the Allies to encrypt their radio communications against Axis intercepts can now be downloaded over a dial-up Internet connection and deployed with a cheap laptop.
如果说有一个现代化的东西，是奥威尔作品中“给弱势者提供利爪”的“简单”、“民主的武器”的对应，那它就是密码学了。密码学是支撑比特币的数学基础，也是最好的安全通信方案。它的生产成本很低：用一台家用电脑就可以编写加密软件。传播它更加便宜：软件可以用物理对象无法实现的方式加以复制。但是，它也是不可战胜的——现代密码学使用的核心数学已经相当成熟，可以抵挡一个超级大国的力量。盟军用来加密无线电通信，让轴心国的拦截白费功夫的那些技术，现在人们甚至可以通过拨号上网方式来下载，并且安装在一台低价笔记本电脑上了。
Whereas in 1945, much of the world faced a half-century of tyranny as a result of the atomic bomb, in 2015, we face the inexorable spread of invasive mass surveillance and the attendant transfer of power to those connected to its superstructures. It is too early to say whether the “democratizing” or the “tyrannical” side of the Internet will eventually win out. But acknowledging them — and perceiving them as the field of struggle — is the first step toward acting effectively.
1945年时，世界上很大一部分地区都将面临半世纪之久的暴政，那是原子弹造成的后果，而在2015年，我们面临着大规模监控的入侵，以及权力向实施监控的上层建筑转移，这样的发展不可避免。互联网“民主”和“暴政”这两面中，哪一面会最终胜出，现在还言之过早。但承认它们——并把它们视为一个战场——是向着采取有效行动迈出的第一步。