YESTERDAY, the aerial search for floating debris from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 was called off, and an underwater search based on possible locator beacon signals was completed without success. Although efforts to find the missing aircraft have not been abandoned, Angus Houston, the man in charge of finding the plane, said, “We haven’t found anything anywhere.”
昨天（2014年4月28日，本文最初发表于4月29日——编注），对马航370次客机漂浮残骸的空中搜索已经停止，根据疑似定位仪信标信号而展开的水下搜索工作也无果而终。虽然人们还未放弃尽力地寻找失踪客机，但主管客机搜寻任务的安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)表示，“我们仍然一无所获。”
The more than 50-day operation, which the Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, calls “probably the most difficult search in human history,” highlights a big technology gap. We live in the age of what I once called “the Internet of Things,” where everything from cars to bathroom scales to Crock-Pots can be connected to the Internet, but somehow, airplane data systems are barely connected to anything.
澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)说，长达50多天的搜索行动“也许是人类历史上难度最大的一次搜索”，突显了一个巨大的技术空白。我曾把我们生存的时代称作“物联网”时代，在这个时代，不管是汽车、浴室体重秤还是克罗克电锅(Crock-Pot)，任何物品都可以接入互联网，然而不知为何，飞机数据系统却几乎未和任何网络相连。
Investigators discovered Flight 370’s path into the Indian Ocean using an unorthodox analysis of data from the plane’s Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System, or Acars, which was invented in the 1970s and is based on telex, an almost century-old ancestor of text messaging made essentially obsolete by fax machines.
调查人员对来自机上的飞机通信寻址与报告系统（Aircraft Communication Addressing and Reporting System，简称Acars）的数据进行了一次非常规的分析，发现了客机飞往印度洋的航线轨迹，这套系统发明于上世纪70年代，而且是基于电传技术的，电传是文本信息传送的始祖，已有近百年历史，基本上被传真机所淘汰。
That aircraft system was not designed for locating planes. The black box flight data recorders that are the focus of the search for Flight 370 are little more than super-tough memory sticks with locator beacons. When so much is connected to the Internet, why is the aerospace industry using technology that predates fax machines to look for flash drives in the sea?
设计Acars的目的不是为了定位飞机的所在地。马航370号客机搜索行动的重点是飞行数据记录仪，即黑匣子，它就是一根带有定位声学信标的超坚固记忆棒。在众多物品都被接入互联网的今天，为何航空工业还在利用比传真机更古老的技术，在海里搜寻一个U盘？
Because, while technology for communicating from the ground has advanced rapidly in the last 40 years, technology for communicating from the sky has been stuck in the 1970s.
原因在于，过去40年里，地面通讯技术已经取得了飞速的进步，而空中通讯技术还停滞在上世纪70年代的水平。
The problem starts not with planes, but with the satellites that track them. The Sentinel-1A satellite, for example, weighs two and a half tons, costs around $400 million, and was launched on a rocket designed in Soviet Russia in the 1960s. The Sentinel can store the same amount of data as seven iPhones. When was this relic from the age of mainframe computers sent into orbit? On April 3. Huge, expensive, rocket-launched satellites with little computing power may make sense for broadcasting, where one satellite sends one signal to lots of things (such as television sets) but they are generally too expensive and not intelligent enough to be part of the Internet, where lots of things (such as airplanes) would send lots of signals to one satellite. This is why most satellites reflect TV signals, take pictures of the Earth, or send the signals that drive GPS systems. It is also the reason airplanes can’t stream flight and location data like they stream vapor trails: cellphone and Wi-Fi signals don’t reach the ground from 30,000 feet, so airplanes need to be able to send information to satellites — satellites that, as well as being unable to handle network data economically, are designed to talk to rotating, dish-shaped antennas that would be impossible to retrofit to airplanes.
这个问题不是始于飞机，而是始于跟踪飞机的卫星。例如“哨兵-1A”(Sentinel-1A)号卫星，重两吨半、造价4亿美元（约合25亿元人民币），是由上世纪60年代苏联设计的火箭发射入空的。其数据存储容量相当于七部iPhone手机的存储量。这个来自台式电脑时代的老古董是在何时被送入轨道的呢？今年4月3日。体积巨大、价格昂贵、用火箭发射、几乎没什么计算能力的卫星，如果用于广播系统也许还说得通，因为在那种系统里，一颗卫星要向大量物体（比如电视机）发送同一个信号，可是它们整体上太过昂贵，也没有接入互联网的智能，在互联网世界，有大量物体（比如飞机）会向一颗卫星发送大量信号。这就是为何大部分卫星能够反射电视信号、拍摄地球照片，或能发送信号驱动全球定位系统(GPS)的原因。这也是飞机不能像拉出雾化尾迹那样源源不断地传送大量飞行数据和定位数据的原因，手机和无线传输信号不能从三万英尺（约合9000米）的高空抵达地面，所以飞机必须有能力向卫星发送讯息——而那些卫星在无法经济地处理网络数据的同时，还是被设计来和旋转的碟形天线交换信息的，而此类天线是无法加装在飞机上的。
The solution to these problems is simple: We need new satellite technology. And it’s arriving. Wealthy private investors and brilliant young engineers are dragging satellites into the 21st century with inventions including “flocks” of “nanosatellites” that weigh as little as three pounds; flat, thin antennas built from advanced substances called “metamaterials”; and “beamforming,” which steers radio signals using software.
这些问题的解决方案相当简单：我们需要新的卫星技术。这种技术正在涌现。富有的私人投资者和才华横溢的青年工程师正在用他们的发明把卫星拖入21世纪，这些发明包括重量轻至三磅的“纳米卫星”组成的“集群”；包括用名为“超材料”的先进物质制造的扁平细薄的天线；还有用软件引导无线电信号的“波束合成”技术。
On Jan. 9, a San Francisco-based start-up called Planet Labs sent a flock of 28 nanosatellites into space. The first application for this type of technology is taking pictures of the Earth, but it could also be used to receive data streaming from aircraft retrofitted with those new, flat “metamaterial” antennas. There are many other possible systems. Dozens of new satellite technologies are emerging, with countless ways to combine them. Streaming data from planes is about to become cheap and easy.
今年1月9日，一家名为行星实验室(Planet Labs)的旧金山初创企业把由28颗微型卫星组成的卫星群发送到了太空中。此类技术的首次应用是给地球拍照，不过，它也能用于接收加装在飞机上的新型“超材料”扁平天线发送的流数据。还有许多可行的系统。目前已有数十种新型卫星技术面世，有无数途径能融合它们。飞机上的流数据即将变得既便宜又容易。
The satellite revolution is not just about airplanes. David Cowan, a venture capitalist who is on the board of Skybox Imaging, a manufacturer of 220-pound “microsatellites,” calls the big picture “planetary awareness.” Combining data from sensors on satellite networks with information from things like phones, cars and planes will give us a comprehensive, constantly updating picture of the world. Everybody will be able to see everything from crops growing to traffic jamming to armies invading to icecaps melting. Vanishing airplanes will be a thing of the past.
卫星革命不仅限于飞机领域。风险投资人戴维·考恩(David Cowan)是Skybox Imaging公司董事会的成员，这家公司在制作220磅的“微卫星”。他称卫星革命的未来是一种“行星意识”。把卫星传感器网络提供的数据和从手机、汽车和飞机等物体获得的信息结合起来，将给我们提供全面不间断的、不断更新的世界图景。每个人都能看到世间万象，从庄稼的种植到交通堵塞，再到军队的入侵行动和冰盖的融化，无所不包。无影无踪的飞机将成为过去。
Today’s big aerospace companies may not embrace this revolution unprompted. Seeing satellites as network computers and airplanes as nodes that communicate with them requires a new mind-set. Airlines, airplane makers and regulators are feeling perplexed and defensive about the public outcry over their inability to know where their planes are and whether something is wrong with them. One industry insider told me, “There’s no cost-effective justification for streaming data from aircraft. What would you do if you had the information?”
今天的大型航空公司也许不会主动迎接这场革命。把卫星视作网络计算机，以及把飞机视作和该网络交互的一个节点，需要新的思维方式。公众对航空公司、飞机制造商和监管机构的无能感到愤怒，它们既无法获知飞机的下落，也不知道飞机出现了什么问题，对此它们是困惑又不甘认错。一名业内人士告诉我，“从成本效益看，获取飞机数据流并不划算。如果你掌握了这些信息，你能做什么？”
One of the many things you would do: You would never again put the families of 239 people though an agony of uncertainty as you searched for an airplane that flew itself for hours until it ran out of gas and crashed into the sea.
你会做的许多事情里肯定有这一件：你绝不会再这么费力搜索一架飞了几个小时，直到把耗尽燃油才坠入海中的飞机时，同时让239名乘客的家人经历悬而不决的痛苦。