Woe to the once-hallowed trickster. In ancient mythologies, the riddler-thief and agent of change held a position of prestige. Now, we don’t know what to do with him. In our two Americas, we do black and white, either/or, with us or against us. The trickster is in between, both and neither, a character on the fringes.
对于那些曾经神圣的千面骗子们来说，这是灾难。在古老的神话里，这种谜一样的小偷和变革推动者享有特权。如今，我们却不知该拿他们怎么办才好。在我们的“两个美国”理念里，我们奉行非黑即白，非是即否，不是敌人就是朋友。而千面骗子们处于中间的模糊地带，既是又不是，是边缘角色。
Take Aaron Swartz, the wunderkind programmer who helped lead the successful challenge to the overreaching Stop Online Piracy Act. In 2011, Mr. Swartz was accused of breaking into computer networks at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and downloading files from the academic journal hub Jstor. He was arrested on federal charges related to hacking, and was facing up to $1 million in fines and 35 years in prison when he committed suicide at the age of 26. How will he be remembered, and, separately, how should he be remembered? As a revolutionary, a villain or both?
电脑程序神童亚伦·斯沃茨(Aaron Swartz)曾经领导过对《禁止网络盗版法案》(Stop Online Piracy Act)成功的挑战。2011年，斯沃茨被控告侵入麻省理工学院的电脑系统，从学术期刊服务器Jstor上下载档案。他自杀身亡时年仅26岁，被联邦政府起诉与黑客有关的罪行并遭到逮捕，面临着100万美元的罚款与35年的牢狱生涯。他将怎样被人们铭记，而他又应当如何被人们所铭记？是作为一个革命者，一个犯罪分子，还是二者兼有？
A new documentary, “The Internet’s Own Boy: The Story of Aaron Swartz” (being released Friday), posits these questions and others as it tries to deal with the complex figure Mr. Swartz cut online and in real life. With dozens of testimonials from friends, lawyers and colleagues as well as significant video footage of Mr. Swartz himself, the filmmaker Brian Knappenberger aims to create a portrait of a tragic computer prodigy who became a lightning rod for debates about freedom of information, digital security and the function of the web. It is a fraught topic, and a subject all the more fascinating for the Wild Westness of the online space Swartz was helping pioneer.
新纪录片《互联网少年：亚伦·斯沃茨》(The Internet’s Own Boy: The Story of Aaron Swartz)于周五发行，它向人们提出了这两个问题以及其他问题，同时试图解析斯沃茨在网络与真实生活中的复杂形象。片中有几十段对朋友们、律师们与同事们的采访，也有斯沃茨本人的重要视频录像，导演布莱恩·耐本伯格(Brian Knappenberger)希望绘制出一幅悲剧性的电脑神童肖像，如今他已成为关于信息自由、数码安全与网络功能讨论中的靶子。这是一个令人忧虑的主题，比斯沃茨参与开拓的那个网络狂野西部更加引人入胜。
If tricksters are among us, they are probably online, in the digital forest where morally ambiguous “gray hat” hackers and bands of pranksters like Anonymous roam as if they were Robin Hood and his Merry Men. In films, at least, the hacker appears as a kind of complicated folk hero. Consider the mercenary bandits in “Sneakers” (1992) who thwart a domestic surveillance ploy, only to turn the Holy Grail of code breaking over to the National Security Agency. Following their rebel leader, Martin Bishop (Robert Redford), these “sneakers” are a unit of mostly reformed hooligans turned hackers and burglars who contract their services to banks and other secure institutions to reveal just how insecure those clients are. When we meet them, all’s fairly right in the sneakers’ world, except that Marty has a past and a warrant out for his arrest. So, when two N.S.A. officers stroll into his office with a shady job offer, the lure of amnesty and financial reward is enough to persuade him to commit treason. Though the crew’s absolute morality is never entirely in question, it is easy to wonder whether they are breaking codes and laws for the seemingly paltry award or because they can.
如果千面骗子就在我们中间，他们可能是在网上，在数码森林里，那里徘徊着道德上非常模糊的“灰帽子”黑客，以及大群“匿名者”之类的恶作剧者，仿佛他们是罗宾汉与他的伙伴“快活人”。至少在电影中，黑客总是作为某种复杂的民间英雄出现。在1992年的《潜行者》(Sneakers)中唯利是图的匪徒们阻挠国内的监管工作，只是为了把被盗取的代码界圣杯归还给国家安全局。这些“潜行者”们在反叛的领导人马丁·毕肖普（Martin Bishop，罗伯特·雷德福[Robert Redford]饰）领导下组成了一个小团队，其中有由恶棍变身而来的黑客和盗贼，他们向银行和其他安保机构提供服务，寻找这些客户的安全漏洞。当我们看到他们的时候，潜行者世界里的一切都很正当，只有马丁有一段过去，他是被担保才获释的。于是，当两个国安局成员来到他的办公室，提供一份可疑的工作时，获得特赦与金钱报酬的诱惑太大，足以令他背叛。尽管这个小团队的绝对道德是不容质疑的，但人们还是很容易想到，他们是否会因为看似微不足道的奖励和理由，或者只是因为他们能做到，就去违背法律。
Of course, code breaking and slipping through gateways is the trickster’s forte. Movies have always been a bit awed by the occult magic of computer whizzes, doing whatever it is they do with those letters on a screen, casting and cracking software spells. Sandra Bullock’s programmer in “The Net” (1995) was deemed so dangerous to the players in a government conspiracy that they allocated what must have been millions of dollars to chase her. But if she was a de facto criminal, it was a corrupted and criminal system that had made her so. And it is only when she is forced outside the law that she can destroy the conspiracy Chimera to reclaim her life. Similarly, Alan Cumming’s hacker in “Goldeneye” the same year, much like Justin Long’s in “Live Free or Die Hard” (2007) and Tim Robbins’s ersatz Bill Gates in the wretched “Antitrust” (2001), had the power both to wreak and to prevent cataclysmic damage.
当然，破坏法律、溜进大门正是千面骗子们的专长。电影总是对电脑专家的奇异魔法有一些敬畏，他们靠着电脑屏幕上的文字，那些关于软件的咒语就能做到一切事情。桑德拉·布洛克(Sandra Bullock)在1995年的《网络上身》(The Net)中饰演的程序员被那些政府阴谋中的游戏者们视为危险分子，他们动用了数百万美元来追捕她。但如果她是事实上的罪犯，那也是腐败罪恶的体制逼迫她的。只有在她被迫违背法律之后，她才得以摧毁那个索要她性命的阴谋怪兽。同样，艾伦·坎明(Alan Cumming)在同年的《黄金眼》(Goldeney)中饰演的黑客与贾斯汀·朗(Justin Long)在2007年的《虎胆龙威4》(Live Free or Die Hard)以及蒂姆·罗宾斯(Tim Robbins)在2001年低劣的《反托拉斯行动》(Antitrust)中饰演的比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)的化身都有造成或制止巨大灾难破坏的能力。
The ne plus ultra of this sort of morally slippery figure may be Julian Assange. In Bill Condon’s “The Fifth Estate” last year, Mr. Assange is presented as the 21st-century evolution of the truth-first newshound and his WikiLeaks as a sort of cyberfuturistic version of a newsroom. Overbearing to the point of megalomania, this Assange, played by Benedict Cumberbatch, sees himself as a crusader for Good, willing to sacrifice just about everything in its pursuit, and, fitting the classic trickster mold, utterly unaffected by the ripple effects of his actions. Alex Gibney’s documentary “We Steal Secrets,” a portrait of Mr. Assange, is still more complicated. Some consider this Assange a monster, a threat to state security and maybe even a war criminal.
这种类型的人物或许在朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)这里达到了巅峰。在去年比尔·康顿(Bill Condon)的《危机解密》(The Fifth Estate)中，阿桑奇被呈现为把真实作为第一追求的新闻记者在21世纪的进化版，他的维基解密则是新闻编辑室的网络未来主义版。本尼迪克特·康伯巴奇(Benedict Cumberbatch)饰演的这个阿桑奇专横到了自大狂的地步，把自己视为善的圣战者，愿意为了追求善而牺牲一切，他符合传统的千面骗子模版，他的行为所带来的连锁反应完全不会影响到他。亚历克斯·吉布尼(Alex Gibney)的纪录片《我们窃取机密》(We Steal Secrets)为阿桑奇勾勒的肖像更加复杂，有些人觉得这部影片中的阿桑奇是个怪物，是对国家安全的威胁，甚至可能是战犯。
As interactivity has demystified technology, the gamer, the programmer and the hacker have ascended the hierarchy of film archetypes. No longer do we expect an orange-haired Seth Green (“The Italian Job,” 2003, and “Enemy of the State,” 1998) to bang heavily on keys in some remote location while the real hero does heroic stuff elsewhere. Beginning perhaps with “The Matrix” (1999), in which a Christlike Neo went digital for our sins and became a eucharistic amalgam of ones and zeros, hackers have been portrayed as heroes with the power to affect the outcome of their lives, and thus their movies. Lisbeth Salander in both versions of “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo” hacks her way out of indentured servitude to her parole officer and then into avenging angel for the “real” hero Mikael Blomkvist. And it is a sort of rejected man’s revenge that initially motivates the vicious Mark Zuckerberg character in “The Social Network” (2010) to design a site that lets him and others cyberevaluate their classmates.
人机交互令技术不再神秘，游戏玩家、程序员和黑客在电影原型的地位开始上升。我们不再期待橙色头发的赛斯·格林（Seth Green，比如2003年的《偷天换日》[The Italian Job]和1998年的《国家公敌》[Enemy of the State]中）在遥远的地方猛敲键盘，与此同时，真正的主人公在别处做着英雄事迹。或许是从1999年的《黑客帝国》(The Matrix)开始，基督般的尼奥为了我们的罪恶而成为数码，成了一与零的圣餐混合体，从那以后，黑客就被塑造为主角，拥有能够影响他们的生活，也能影响他们的电影的力量。莉斯·莎兰德(Lisbeth Salander)在两个版本的《龙纹身的女孩》(The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo)中都用黑客手段摆脱了被假释官奴役的状态，成了“真正的”主人公米卡伊尔·布罗姆科维斯特(Mikael Blomkvist)的复仇天使。在2010年的《社交网络》(The Social Network)中，“被抛弃者的报复”则是恶意的马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)的最初动机，让他设计出一个网站，供他和其他人去评价同学们。