It was the computer programming equivalent of misspelling Mississippi — an error at once careless, inevitable and hard for most human eyes to spot.
这个电脑编程问题相当于拼错了“Mississippi”这个英文单词——由粗心所导致，无法避免，而且大多数人都难以察觉。
The bug known as Heartbleed, a flaw widely replicated in the main system for encrypting consumers’ online data, is a stark reminder that the Internet is still in its youth, and vulnerable to all sorts of unseen dangers, including simple human error. Today’s digital systems are complex and penetrate every corner of our lives. It is impossible to lock them down.
这个漏洞名为“心脏出血”(Heartbleed)，在一些用来加密消费者在线数据的主流系统里广泛存在。这一事件明确地提醒我们：互联网仍处于青年期，并且容易遭遇各种看不见的危险，其中也包括简单的人为失误。如今的数字系统非常复杂，而且渗透到了我们生活中的每一个角落。完全控制它们是不可能的。
“Heartbleed is further evidence that we don’t have our house in order when it comes to Internet security,” said Edward Felten, a computer security expert at Princeton University.
“‘心脏出血’进一步证明，我们在网络安全方面做得很糟糕，”普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)计算机安全专家爱德华·费尔滕(Edward Felten)说。
In some ways, the tech world today resembles the chaotic, unruly days of other essential industries, including the meatpacking industry depicted in Upton Sinclair’s “The Jungle” and the automobile business portrayed in Ralph Nader’s “Unsafe at Any Speed.” While those industries were made safe by a combination of regulation and industrywide cooperation, progress took time, and it came through trial and error.
从某些方面来说，眼下的高科技世界跟其他一些关键产业昔日混乱、无序的局面不无相似，比如厄普顿·辛克莱(Upton Sinclair)在《屠场》(The Jungle)中描述的肉类加工业，以及拉尔夫·纳德(Ralph Nader)在《任何车速都不安全》(Unsafe at Any Speed)中描绘的汽车业。虽然监管和整个行业的协作已经让这些行业变得安全，但改善不仅需要时间，而且也需要不断尝试。
But it’s not clear that the same solutions will work with technology. We have decided, as a society, to rush headlong into a world ruled by digital devices, continually weighing convenience versus safety. We’re constantly storing more of our important information on more new kinds of hardware run by more complicated software. All of it is increasingly interdependent, which makes the whole ecosystem more vulnerable.
但目前还不清楚同样的解决方案是否适用于科技业。我们作为一个社会，已经决定一头扎进被数字设备统治的世界，不断在便利性与安全性之间做权衡。我们一直在往更多的新型硬件上存储更多的重要信息，而这些硬件上正运行着更加复杂的软件。所有这一切的相互依存性正在日益加重，使得整个生态系统变得更加脆弱。
Even though security is an increasing area of concern for large technology companies, it is often considered an afterthought rather than an essential part of building all the goodies we use. Experts say that while instituting a more secure tech culture is possible, it will require a long-term investment in educating software engineers and improving core technologies.
虽然大型科技公司对安全领域越来越重视，但它通常被作为事后的补救措施，而不是构建产品和服务过程中的一个关键组成部分。专家指出，虽然培养一种更加注重安全的科技文化是可能的，但这需要做出长期的投入，教育软件工程师并提升核心技术。
“There’s a level of care in designing systems and sweating the details of their operations that’s missing in the culture of software development,” Mr. Felten said. “We don’t have the kind of safety culture that is common in fields such as aviation.”
“在软件开发的文化中，人们对设计系统和精心打造产品细节，在一定程度上不够关心，”费尔滕说。“航空等领域常见的那种安全文化我们并不具备。”
That’s because enhanced safety will surely cost consumers in speed, novelty and convenience.
这是因为更高的安全性，肯定会让消费者享受到的速度、新奇性和便利性打些折扣。
“We have standards for coding in mission-critical systems like the airline industry, but I’m not sure we would want those standards applied everywhere,” said Matthew Green, a cryptographer and research professor at Johns Hopkins University. Such strict standards require programmers to spend significantly more time testing their work — and neither technology companies nor consumers can stomach such delays. “I don’t think we want to wait 20 years for the next Google and Facebook,” Mr. Green said.
“对于航空等行业中的关键任务系统，我们对编程是有标准的，但我不知道把这些标准套用到所有地方是否合适，”密码学家马修·格林(Matthew Green)说，他也是约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)的研究教授。那种严格的标准要求程序员花费远远更多的时间来测试自己的程序，无论是科技企业还是消费者都无法忍受这样的等待。格林说，“我觉得，我们不会希望等到20年后才出现下一个谷歌和Facebook。”
Like other similar bugs found recently — including one in Apple’s mobile and desktop devices — the Heartbleed flaw had gone unnoticed for years. As far as researchers can tell, the problem was introduced by a programmer making a routine coding change on New Year’s Eve in 2011. OpenSSL, the system in which the error was found, is an open-source program, which means that its code resides online and can be amended by anyone. In theory, such code is supposed to be more secure from bugs than a closed system; with enough programmers checking the code, the flaw should have been quickly detected.
和最近发现的其他类似漏洞（其中包括苹果移动设备和桌面设备的一个漏洞）一样，“心脏出血”多年来也没有被人察觉。就研究人员所知，这个问题是一名程序员在2011年最后一天进行例行的代码修改时造成的。发现这个漏洞的系统OpenSSL是开源程序，这意味着它的代码放在网上，任何人都可以修改。从理论上讲，相对于封闭的系统，开源代码被认为更加安全；有足够多的程序员检查开源代码，漏洞可以很快就被检测出来。
But apparently that did not happen. “There just weren’t enough eyeballs on this — and that’s very bad,” Mr. Green said.
但情况显然不是这样。“没有足够多的人关注这些代码——这真是非常糟糕，”格林说。
One problem might be basic economics. Many huge Internet companies depend on free technologies like OpenSSL to run their systems, but they don’t always return resources to the small teams that create the code. “If we could get $500,000 kicked back to OpenSSL and teams like it, maybe this kind of thing won’t happen again,” Mr. Green said.
一个问题可能是基本经济层面上的。很多大型互联网公司依靠OpenSSL这样的免费技术来运行系统，但它们往往不会回馈资源给编写这些代码的小团队。“如果能提供50万美元（约合310万元人民币）给OpenSSL以及类似的团队，这种事情也许就不会再发生了，”格林说。
Unlike other potentially dangerous corners of modern life, like aviation or health care, the tech industry is unusually volatile. The companies that run the show today will inevitably be usurped by newer ones that offer supposedly better ways of doing things. Such constant upheaval makes industrywide coordination on security more difficult.
现代生活中也有其他可能存在危险的行业，比如航空或医疗，但不同于它们的是，高科技行业的变化日新月异。眼前如日中天的公司必然会被更新的、人们认为能提供更好产品的公司所颠覆。这种不断更迭的状况，让整个行业的安全协调变得越发困难。
“I’m not sure there’s any other industry that handles as much change and as much usage in such a short amount of time,” said Kurt Baumgartner, a researcher at Kaspersky Lab, a digital security firm. Still, Mr. Baumgartner contends that the field is getting better. Compared with the slow, haphazard way that companies once responded to security threats, the industry’s response to Heartbleed was “pretty responsibly coordinated,” he said. Many large companies fixed their services before the problem was disclosed. “On the whole, things have been improving.”
“我想没有哪个产业会在这么短的时间里，应对这么多的变化，这么大的使用量，”数字安全公司卡巴斯基实验室(Kaspersky Lab)的研究员库尔特·鲍姆加特纳(Kurt Baumgartner)说。不过，鲍姆加特纳也表示，这个领域正在日益改善。科技企业回应安全威胁的方式曾经相当缓慢、没有章法，但他说，相比之下，整个行业应对“心脏出血”时“相当负责任地进行了协调”。很多大公司在该问题曝光之前就已经对自己的服务采取了措施。“总体来说，事情已经在好转。”
But is it improving enough to keep up with an increasingly determined set of attackers? According to a recent study by Risk Based Security, a threat research firm, there were more than 2,000 data security breaches in 2013. The good news is that the number of intrusions was down from 2012, when more than 3,000 episodes were reported. The bad news is that the smaller number of attacks in 2013 resulted in more damage — about 814 million data records were exposed during the year (including the credit card you used at Target), about twice as many as in any other previous year on record.
但改进的速度足够快，能抵御越来越顽固的攻击者吗？网络威胁研究机构Risk Based Security近期的一项研究显示，2013年发生了2000多起数据安全受到破坏的攻击事件。好消息是这一数字与2012年的3000多起相比有所下降。但坏消息是，虽然2013年攻击次数有所减少，但攻击结果却更具破坏性——大约8.14亿条数据记录在这一年里被暴露（包括你在Target超市使用的信用卡信息），大约是有记录以来过去任何一年的两倍。
The numbers point to another factor that adds to the difficulty in addressing digital threats: Attackers are intelligent, so, frequently, advances in security are matched by advances in attacks. This makes online security a more complicated problem than, say, improving the safety of automobiles.
这一数字表明了应对数据威胁的另一个困难因素：攻击者都很聪明，所以频繁发生的情况是，随着安全性的提升，攻击的水平也会提高。这使得网络安全变成一个更复杂的问题，比提升汽车安全要难得多。
If you fix one Internet security bug, you can be sure that attackers will just find another, potentially more dangerous one. “Over all, attackers have the competitive advantage,” said Jen Weedon, who works on the threat intelligence team at the security company Mandiant. “Defenders need to defend everything. All attackers need to find is one vulnerability.”
如果你修复了一个网络安全漏洞，可以肯定的是攻击者一定会找到另一个漏洞，而且有可能更危险。“总的来说，攻击者拥有竞争优势，”网络安全公司Mandiant威胁信息情报小组的珍·威登(Jen Weedon)说。“防守方需要防守所有可能的威胁，而攻击者只需要找到一个弱点。”
If you aren’t worried enough yet, there’s one more reason to expect digital technology to remain prone to errors. “There’s an underlying process here, which says that as devices get more memory or power, people add more complexity to a product — until it becomes so complicated that it’s too difficult to understand,” Mr. Felten said. That “smart” watch you’re wearing today might not be very complex, but in a few years’ time, smartwatches might run processors that are as powerful as those in today’s laptops.
如果这还不够让你担心，数字技术还有另外一个总会出问题的原因。“有这样一个深层的过程，随着设备拥有更多的存储量、变得更强大，人们也会让产品变得愈发复杂——直到复杂得让人难以理解，”费尔滕说。你今天所戴的“智能”手表也许还不是很复杂，但在未来几年中，智能手表里运行的处理器，或许就会像如今的笔记本电脑一样强大。
Companies will create hundreds of apps to take advantage of that power, and you’ll probably install them, because they’ll make your life more convenient or more fun. You’ll pour all your most precious data into your watch. Suddenly, without your noticing it, your watch will have become a target. And among one of those apps will be some threat that no one had anticipated. “As our engineering methods get better, our products get more complicated, so we’re always out at the edge of complexity that our engineering processes can handle,” Mr. Felten said.
各家公司将会创作成百上千的应用程序来运用这种计算能力，而你很有可能会安装这些应用，因为它们会让你的生活更便利、更有乐趣。你会向手表里倾注大量有关于你的珍贵数据。突然间，在你还没有意识到的时候，你的手表就已经成了攻击目标。在那些应用当中，会存在谁都始料未及的威胁。费尔滕说，“随着我们的工程方法越来越好，我们的产品变得越来越复杂，所以我们一直在追求工程流程可以处理的复杂度的极限。”
Does this mean we’re doomed? Not necessarily; researchers are gratified that large hacks and vulnerabilities are receiving more attention, which might push the industry and consumers to take security more seriously. “Within the past year or so, it’s interesting to see how high-profile these threats have become,” Ms. Weedon said. “Now average people are talking about how to patch their systems. And that’s the best we can hope for, for now.”
这意味着我们迟早会遭殃吗？并不见得。大规模黑客袭击和网络漏洞正在受到越来越多的关注，研究人员对于这一点颇为欣慰，这可能会促使整个行业和用户更加重视安全问题。“在过去一年左右的时间里，我们看到这些袭击事件广为人知，这一点相当有趣，”威登说。“现在连普通人都在谈论该如何修补他们的系统。这是我们现在可以期望的最好情况了。”