There you are watching another death on video. In the course of ordinary life — at lunch or in bed, in a car or in the park — you are suddenly plunged into someone else’s crisis, someone else’s horror. It arrives, absurdly, in the midst of banal things. That is how, late one afternoon in April, I watched Walter Scott die. The footage of his death, taken by a passer-by, had just been published online on the front page of The New York Times. I watched it, sitting at my desk in Brooklyn, and was stunned by it.
你又一次看到视频中的死亡事件，就在你平凡的生活之中——不是在午饭时就是在床上，不是在汽车里就是公园里——突然之间，你陷入别人的危机与别人的恐怖。荒诞的是，它插在各种平庸的事情之中。就是这样，一个四月的下午，我看到沃尔特·斯科特(Walter Scott)的死。一个路人拍下他死时的场面，上传到《纽约时报》网站的首页。我在布鲁克林，坐在桌边看着它，震惊不已。
A video introduces new elements into the event it records. It can turn a private grief into a public spectacle, set popular opinion at odds with expert analysis. I have seen too many such videos in the past year. I watched the fatal shooting of 12-year-old Tamir Rice, who was holding a toy gun in a Cleveland park. I watched a police officer put a protesting Eric Garner into a chokehold that moments later proved fatal. I watched Charly Leundeu Keunang tussle with police officers in Los Angeles before he was shot six times. And there was much I could have watched but opted not to: the ISIS beheading videos, the various other clips of deadly violence from around the world. Even so, I felt that death had come within too-easy reach, as easy as opening up a browser and pressing play. I recognized the political importance of the videos I had seen, but it had also felt like an intrusion when I watched them: intruding on the grief of those for whom the deaths were much more significant, and intruding, too, on my own personal but unarticulated sense of right and wrong.
这段视频为它所记录的时间带来一些新的元素。影像可以把私人的悲伤变为公众奇观，这个观点已经广为流传，有各种专家对之进行争辩。过去一年来我看过太多视频。我看到12岁的泰米尔·莱斯(Tamir Rice)因为在克利夫兰公园玩假枪被枪杀。我看到一个警察扼住抗议的埃里克·加纳(Eric Garner)的咽喉，后来才知道他被扼死了。我看到洛杉矶，查理·勒恩德·柯南(Charly Leundeu Keunang)与警察扭打，之后身中六枪身亡。还有很多东西我本来应当看，但我宁愿不看：伊斯兰国(ISIS)的斩首视频，以及世界各地的各种致死暴力。尽管如此，我觉得关于死亡的影像还是变得过于触手可及，打开浏览器，按下播放键就可以了。我明白我所看到的东西具有政治意义，但看到它们的同时我也感觉这是一种侵犯：我侵入到那些为死者而悲伤的人们当中，这也同样干扰了我个人不太能够清楚地用言语表达的是非观。
For most of human history, to see someone die, you had to be there. Depictions of death, if there were any, came later, at a certain remove of time and space. The day after I watched the Scott video, it so happened that I taught my students at Bard about a series of woodcuts by Hans Holbein the Younger. Holbein’s woodcuts, designed around 1526 and titled “Pictures of Death,” show Death arriving for his victims: a nun at prayer, a farmer plowing his field, a pope on his throne, a knight in full armor. Considering these prints made me understand something about videos like those of Scott’s death: they are part of a long line of images of the moment of death, an engagement with that mysterious instant in which a self is deprived of itself.
在人类历史中的大部分时间里，你得亲临现场才能目睹一个人的死亡。对异时异地的死亡进行描述是其后的事。我看斯科特视频的那天正在巴德学院给学生们上课，讲的是小汉斯·荷尔拜因(Hans Holbein the Younger)的系列木刻。荷尔拜因的作品是在1526年左右设计的，题为《死亡的画像》(Pictures of Death)，描绘了不同受害者们的死亡：祈祷的修女、耕田的农夫、头戴冠冕的主教、身穿盔甲的骑士。思考这些作品让我理解了这些死亡影像中的某些东西：它们是大量表现死亡时刻的画面中的一部分，是个体被剥除个体性的神秘瞬间。
The first photographs about death did not capture the exact moment of its arrival. They were post-mortem pictures. The genre flowered in the 19th century, fostered in part by the technical limitations of photography: The dead don’t move, and a portrait of a corpse was easier to make than one of a living person. This was at a time when death still happened in the home. The bereaved propped up their beloved dead, dressed them in good clothes and had them photographed as though they were still alive. But post-mortem pictures, with their melancholy grandeur and intimate setting, are different from images that capture the rude shock of sudden death.
关于死亡的第一批照片拍的并不是死亡降临的时刻，而是死亡之后的情景。这个类型在19世纪繁盛一时，当时摄影的技术限制也是部分原因——死人不会动，尸体的肖像比活人好拍。当时人们仍然在家中死去，痛苦的亲人们簇拥在死者身边，为死者穿上最好的衣服，让他们在相片中显得一如生前。但死后的照片尽管有着忧伤的庄严和亲密的背景，仍然与镜头捕捉到突然的死亡所带来的那种粗暴的震撼有所不同。
Robert Capa’s famous 1936 photograph of a Spanish militiaman purports to record such a moment: The militiaman falls backward on a sunlit battlefield, his body accelerating to meet its shadow. The photograph is contested now — was it staged, or was it truly caught, by serendipity and skill, in the heat of battle? — but it is an image that, for its time, is imaginable. It would have been difficult, if not impossible, to make a picture like it half a century earlier. And by 32 years later, in a world full of small cameras and quick-loading film, there is no longer any doubt that death can be photographed candidly. On a street in Saigon, the American photojournalist Eddie Adams clicks the shutter and captures the precise moment at which Nguyen Ngoc Loan, a South Vietnamese general, fatally shoots Nguyen Van Lem, a Viet Cong commander, in the head. A second before the bullet hits Lem, his face is relaxed. Then the shot — simultaneously of the gun and the camera — but there’s no blood, no splatter, only Lem’s face contorted in mortal agony. A second later he’s on the ground, blood gushing out of his head. We know these things because the execution was also captured on film, by Vo Suu, a cameraman for NBC. Suu’s footage is invaluable, but Adams’s picture, more striking and more iconic, earned him a Pulitzer Prize in 1969. The picture was remarkable for the rarity of its achievement, in recording the last moment, unscripted and hardly anticipated, of someone’s life. But when you see death mediated in this way, pinned down with such dramatic flair, the star is likely to be death itself and not the human who dies. The fact that a photograph exists of a man being shot in the head in Vietnam is easier to remember than Lem’s biography or even his name.
罗伯特·卡帕(Robert Capa)1936年关于一个西班牙民兵的著名照片捕捉到了这样的时刻：民兵倒在了阳光照耀下的战场，他的身体就快碰到地上的影子。这张照片现在备受争议——它是摆拍的还是实拍的？在战争的白热化阶段，能拍到这样一张照片是由于凑巧还是由于技巧？但在当时，这样的影像是可以想象的。半个世纪以前，要拍出这样一张照片，就算有可能，也极为困难。32年后，世界上到处都是小摄像机和仓促上传的片子，没有人会质疑拍摄死亡的真实性。在西贡街头，美国摄影记者艾迪·亚当斯(Eddie Adams)按下快门，捕捉南越将领阮玉湾如何向越南人民军军官阮文敛头部开枪，将其射杀。阮文敛死前一秒钟表情还很松弛。之后扳机和快门同时按下，但照片中看不到鲜血四溅，只有阮文敛的面孔上扭曲痛苦的神情。一秒钟之后他就倒在地上，鲜血从头部涌出。我们知道这些，是因为NBC的摄影记者Vo Suu的摄像机捕捉到了这一幕。Suu的电影短片极有价值，但还是亚当斯的照片更惊人，更有符号意义，为他赢得了1969年的普利策奖。这幅照片好在拍摄过程十分难得，记录了一个人生命的生命是怎样猝不及防地走向了最后瞬间。但当你看到死亡以这样的媒介呈现出来，被这样戏剧化地定格，会感到片中的“明星”是死亡本身，而不是那个死去的人。事实是，关于一个男人在越南被爆头的照片可能比阮文敛的传记、甚至他的名字都好记。
Having watched the video of Scott’s death once, I now watched it a second time, to figure out where exactly it had been made. I was in Columbia, S.C., for work, and friends there had driven me to North Charleston. Michael Slager stopped Scott in the parking lot of Advance Auto Parts on Remount Road and asked him some questions. At some time during the interaction, Scott fled. Where to? We found the parking lot. I went on foot, taking a left down Craig Road, following the route of the chase, a minute’s walk, shorter if one were to run. Below a hand-painted sign for a Mega Pawn shop was a narrow, disused lot with a pale storage building on one side and a row of trees on the other, a scene both derelict and bucolic. At the entrance to the lot were a new chain secured by a new padlock, and a bunch of flowers, now drooping, wrapped in plastic and wedged into a chain-link fence. This was the officer’s point of view as he steadied himself, raised his .45-caliber Glock 21 and fired eight times at the back of the man running away from him.
我第二次看着斯科特死去的视频，分辨它究竟是在什么地方拍的。当时我去南卡罗来纳哥伦比亚市出差，朋友们开车带我去北查尔斯顿。迈克尔·斯拉格(Michael Slager)在莱蒙特路的前进停车场拦下斯科特，问他几个问题。问着问着，斯科特逃掉了，他要逃到哪儿去？我们来到了那个停车场。我步行过去，沿左侧走过克莱格路，按照追捕的路线走，走了一分钟，如果跑步的话耗时会更短。在一个手绘的“麦格典当行”标志之下，是一块狭窄、废弃的停车场，一侧是浅色的储物建筑，另一侧是一排树木，这景象又荒凉又有牧歌风味。停车场入口处新添了一根链子，用新的挂锁锁住，另外还有一束鲜花，用包装纸包着，插在连着锁链的围栏上，已经有些枯萎。那个警察举起点45口径的格洛克21手枪，开了八枪，打中前方那个逃跑者的后背时，他的视角就是这样的。
In the near distance, just to the left of the paved track that bisected the grass, was a small memorial at the spot where Scott fell. This was not only the scene of a crime. It also made visible things that were not apparent in the video: the last view Scott saw, the exit from the lot, the unnerving quietness of the area, the banality of dying in a side lot off a side street in an unremarkable town. And being there also revealed, in the negative, the peculiarities of the video, peculiarities common to many videos of this kind: the combination of a passive affect and the subjective gaze, irregular lighting and poor sound, the amateur videographer’s unsteady grip and off-camera swearing. Taken by one person (or a single, fixed camera) from one point of view, these videos establish the parameters of any subsequent spectatorship of the event. The information they present is, even when shocking, necessarily incomplete. They mediate, and being on the lot helped me remove that filter of mediation somewhat.
不远处，左边的步行道与草坪交界的地方，也就是斯科特倒下的地方，有一个小小的纪念碑。这里不仅仅是犯罪现场，也让人们看到了视频中看不到的东西：斯科特眼中看到的最后景象，停车场的出口，令人紧张的宁静，在一个了不起的小镇上，死在路边一个停车场是多么平常的事情。站在这里，还可以发现那段影像在消极方面的特殊性，这是许多类似视频都有的特殊性：冷漠的情感与主观的凝视，不规则的光线与低劣的声音，业余摄影者握镜头的手在发抖，镜头外传来咒骂的声音，这一切结合在一起。这些影像由一个人（或者是单一固定的摄像头）从一个角度拍摄下来，为其后的旁观者确立了看待这一事件的参数。它们呈现出来的信息虽然震撼，但却是不完整的。它们只是媒介，亲身来到这个停车场帮助我看到了这个媒介所屏蔽掉的东西。
Later that day, back in Columbia, I had dinner with Tony Jarrells, a professor of English literature at the University of South Carolina. Jarells suggested I read “The Two Drovers,” a story by Sir Walter Scott (the coincidence of names is what reminded him of it). That story, first published in 1827, is about a pair of cattle herders, or drovers, working in the borderlands of England and Scotland. Harry, a Yorkshireman, and Robin, a Highlander, had a dispute about pasturage for their cattle. Harry challenged Robin to a fistfight and, when Robin refused, knocked him down. Robin, in response, walked “seven or eight English miles,” got his dirk (a short knife), walked back and stabbed Harry dead. This was the core of the story, Jarells suggested to me: the stretch of time over which Robin intended his crime, those two hours of premeditation. When there is premeditation, over hours or over a few seconds, the final moment is accompanied by the weight of the moments preceding it, moments necessary to establish that quantum of moral disregard out of which one person kills another. The video from North Charleston seemed to enact this disregard, this voiding of empathy, in seconds that felt like hours, seconds in which the shooter could have stopped and reconsidered, just as the drover Robin could also have stopped and reconsidered, but didn’t.
后来我回到哥伦比亚，和南卡罗来纳州的英语文学教授托尼·杰莱尔斯(Tony Jarrells)共进晚餐。杰莱尔斯建议我读沃尔特·斯科特爵士(Sir Walter Scott)的小说《两个牲畜贩子》(The Two Drovers)——他想起这部小说是因为名字的巧合。这个故事最早于1827年出版，讲的是两个牧牛人或牲畜贩子在英格兰与苏格兰边境工作。哈利是约克郡人，罗宾是高地人，他们为牛群放牧的事吵起来了。哈利要和罗宾用拳头干一架，罗宾拒绝了，哈利就把他打倒在地。于是罗宾走了七八英里，拿来他的短刀，回来把哈利捅死。故事的核心就是这样。杰莱尔斯说，罗宾谋划罪行的时间很长，足有两个小时。当一个人在心中预谋罪行时，不管是几个小时还是几分钟，他都需要在这段时间里积攒动力，把杀人所产生的道德后果弃之不顾，这样的时刻总会产生重量，而最后的时刻就伴随着这个重量到来。北查尔斯顿的这段影像似乎正反应出这种弃之不顾，这种缺乏共情，这几秒钟就像几个小时那么长，这几秒钟里，开枪者本可以停下来想一想，正如牲畜贩子罗宾本可以停下来想一想，但两人都没有这样做。
The videographic afterimage of a real event is always peculiar. When the event is a homicide, it can cross over into the uncanny: the sudden, unjust and irrevocable end of the long story of what one person was, whom he loved, all she hoped, all he achieved, all she didn’t, becomes available for viewing and reviewing. A month after I went to North Charleston, back in Brooklyn and writing about the shooting, I find a direct approach difficult.
真实事件的视频遗留在人们心中的画面总是不同寻常的。特别是谋杀事件，它会给人带来神秘可怖之感：在漫长的一生里，一个人爱过、希望过、收获过，有过未竟之事，然而就得到这样一个突兀、不公，不可挽回的结果，旁观者却可以一再观看。从北查尔斯顿回到布鲁克林一个月后，我想为这场枪击事件写点东西，还是觉得直接来写非常困难。
I write about Holbein’s “Pictures of Death,” and about Robert Capa’s photograph and Eddie Adams’s. I write about “The Two Drovers,” about Robin tramping through the borderlands intent on murder. I write about my morning in North Charleston, the gloomy drive there and back and the wilted flowers on the chain-link fence on Craig Road. If you set enough tangents around a circle, you begin to recreate the shape of the circle itself. Finally, I start to watch footage of Scott’s last moments. It’s the third time, and it makes me uneasy and unhappy. The video begins with the man holding the camera racing toward the fence. A few seconds later, Walter Scott breaks away from Michael Slager. Slager plants his feet and raises his gun. There is still time. He shoots once, then thrice in quick succession. Scott continues to run. There is still time. That is when I stop the video and exit the browser.
于是我写了荷尔拜因的《死亡的画像》，写了卡帕和艾迪·亚当斯的照片。我写了《两个牲畜贩子》里的罗宾如何走过边境，一心想着杀人。我写下在北查尔斯顿度过的早晨，阴郁地驾车赶到现场再回去，还有克莱格路锁链屏障上插着的凋萎花束。如果兜够了圈子，你就可以开始切入正题。最后，我再一次看着斯科特人生最后几秒钟的影像，这是第三次，这让我内心痛苦不安。影像的一开始是那个拿摄像机的人跑向围栏。几秒钟后，沃尔特·斯科特从迈克尔·斯拉格身边跑开。斯拉格拔腿追上，举起了枪。到这时仍有时间。他开了一枪，然后又开了三枪。斯科特还在跑。到这时仍有时间。然后我停止了播放，关掉了浏览器。