WEBSITE: Kelly Wearstler’s Library  
网站：凯莉·沃斯特勒的图书馆(Kelly Wearstler’s Library)
Kelly Wearstler took T’s contributing editor David Netto on a tour of her Los Angeles studio earlier this year. On her label’s website, she offers visitors another type of behind-the-scenes access — to her personal collection of books. The shoppable library is a reliable resource for coffee-table books on art, fashion, design and photography — great for gift-giving or stocking one’s own shelves.
今年早些时候，凯莉·沃斯特勒(Kelly Wearstler)领着T的特约编辑大卫·内托(David Netto)参观她的洛杉矶工作室。在她的品牌网站上给来宾们提供了另一种幕后介绍——她个人收藏的图书。这个图书馆可以购书，是一个关于艺术、时装、设计和摄影的咖啡桌图书的可信赖的资源，特别适合购买礼物或者充实自己的书架。
INSTAGRAM: Jack O’Connor  
INSTAGRAM：杰克·奥康纳(Jack O’Connor)      
Jack O’Connor is a stylist at J.Crew whose Instagram photos could easily pass as clippings from one of the brand’s catalogs. His photogenic family — wife Carmen and young son Graham — make frequent appearances, as do poetic compositions of life in Brooklyn (where J.Crew happens to be opening a new store next month). T’s senior fashion editor Jason Rider (@jasonrider) is an ardent follower (and friend).
杰克·奥康纳是J.Crew的一名造型师，他Instagram上的照片很容易被认为是该品牌购物目录的剪辑。他的家人包括妻子卡门(Carmen)和年幼的儿子格拉哈姆(Graham)，他们非常上相，经常出镜。另外还有布鲁克林生活的诗意构图（碰巧下个月J.Crew将在那里开一家新店）。T的资深时尚编辑詹森·赖德(Jason Rider，@jasonrider)是他的热心粉丝（和朋友）。
BLOG: Forest Feast  
博客：森林盛宴(Forest Feast)   
Erin Gleeson’s cookbook, “The Forest Feast,” has popped up everywhere since its release in April, including on Anthropologie’s well-appointed home shelves. It was also featured in the third and most recent issue of Cherry Bombe magazine. It all began with a blog, which the food photographer still updates regularly with recipes from her little cabin in the woods of Northern California.
埃林·格利森(Erin Gleeson)的菜谱《森林盛宴》(The Forest Feast)从4月份出版以来随处可见，Anthropologie商场配备齐全的家庭书架上也有。它还是《Cherry Bombe》杂志第3期和最近一期的重要内容。它起源于这个博客，美食摄影家格利森将继续在她位于北加州树林里的小屋里定期更新菜谱。
TWITTER: Jenny Mollen  
TWITTER：珍妮·莫伦(Jenny Mollen)   
A couple months ago, T’s entertainment director Lauren Tabach-Bank interviewed Jenny Mollen about her debut book, “I Like You Just the Way I Am,” one of the summer’s funniest reads. On Twitter, Mollen’s devoted fans devour her clever one-liners, which feature her signature raunchy humor and are loaded with new-mommy jokes (“Nobody warned me that babies turn into belligerent angry drunks when taken on airplanes”).
几个月前，T的娱乐版主编劳伦·塔巴奇-班克(Lauren Tabach-Bank)采访了詹妮·莫伦，谈论她的处女作《我以我的方式喜欢你》(I Like You Just the Way I Am)。这本书是今年夏天最有趣的读物之一。在Twitter上，莫伦的热心粉丝们如饥似渴地阅读她聪明的俏皮话，这些话有她标志性的漫不经心的幽默，有大量初为人母的玩笑（“没人警告我婴儿们上了飞机就变成了好斗、愤怒的酒鬼”）。
E-COMMERCE: Dara Artisans  
电子商务：达拉手艺人(Dara Artisans)  
The brand-new e-commerce site Dara Artisans is like an international online bazaar. Its founders, Dara and Dan Brewster, discover craftspeople in the farthest reaches of the world. As they list new inventory, which includes Brooklyn-made jewelry alongside dishes from Uzbekistan, they’re also sharing the stories of the people behind it.
崭新的电子商务网站达拉手艺人就像一个国际在线集市。它的创立者达拉和丹·布鲁斯特(Dara and Dan Brewster)在世界最遥远的角落寻找手艺人。他们在推出新产品时——包括布鲁克林的珠宝、乌兹别克斯坦的餐具——也会分享这些产品的制作人的故事。