BABY BEAR
《宝贝熊》(BABY BEAR)
Written and illustrated by Kadir Nelson. 40 pp. Balzer & Bray/HarperCollins. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 2 to 6)
卡迪尔·尼尔森(Kadir Nelson)编写、绘图40页。鲍尔泽·布雷/哈珀柯林斯出版社(Balzer & Bray/HarperCollins)。17.99美元。（图画书，2至6岁）
Nelson’s illustrations, particularly for books on African-American themes like “Henry’s Freedom Box” (written by Ellen Levine), have won many awards. Here he tells the story of a little bear who has lost his way.
尼尔森的插图，特别是为《亨利的自由箱》（Henry’s Freedom Box，艾伦·莱文[Ellen Levine]编写）这样的关于非裔美国人的图书配的插图，获了很多奖。他在《宝贝熊》中讲述的是一只迷路的小熊的故事。
In scenes illuminated by moonlight, Baby Bear encounters a range of wild creatures, from mountain lion to salmon, who offer him wise counsel. In Nelson’s hands, the natural world is enviably ruled by kind intentions and respect.
在被月光照亮的场景中，宝贝熊遇到了一系列野生动物，从美洲狮到鲑鱼，他们给他提出了明智的建议。在尼尔森笔下，自然界令人艳羡地充满善意和尊重。
CUB’S BIG WORLD
《幼熊的大世界》(CUB’S BIG WORLD)
By Sarah L. ThomsonIllustrated by Joe Cepeda.32 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 2 to 5)
莎拉·L·汤姆森(Sarah L. Thomson)编写乔·塞佩达(Joe Cepeda)绘图32页。霍顿·米夫林·哈考特(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)出版社。16.99美元。（图画书，2至5岁。）
Pleasingly realistic yet reassuringly sweet, “Cub’s Big World” follows a young polar bear on her first trip out of the cozy snow cave she shares with her mother. Cepeda’s heavily impastoed illustrations show skies of swirling blues and purples and an aqua-colored sea.
《幼熊的大世界》既有令人愉快的现实主义，又有令人安慰的甜蜜，它讲述了一只年幼的北极熊第一次从舒适的雪洞里出来和妈妈去旅行的故事。塞佩达的插图涂着厚重的颜料，展现出旋涡状的蓝紫色天空和浅绿色的大海。
Cub’s environment is predominantly white, so mother bear is hard to find when the two are separated. Just when it begins to feel as if the world is “too big for a cub with no mom,” the two are reunited. “Cub’s world was good.” Indeed!
幼熊的世界几乎全是白色的，所以他们走散之后，幼熊很难找到母熊。正当人们感叹“对于没有妈妈的幼熊来说”，这世界“太大了”时，他们重聚了。“幼熊的世界很棒！”的确如此！
THE HICCUP
《打嗝》(THE HICCUP)
Written and illustrated by Ingrid Sissung.Translated by Connie Stradling Morby.32 pp. Sky Pony Press. $16.95. (Picture book; ages 4 to 7)
英格丽德·西桑格(Ingrid Sissung)编写、绘图。康妮·斯特拉德林·莫比(Connie Stradling Morby)翻译。32页。天空小马出版社(Sky Pony Press)。16.95美元。（图画书，4至7岁。）
Elliott and Lutz, two goofy bear cousins, are enjoying a delightful picnic when Elliott gets hiccups. Lutz makes fun of him, and Elliott, increasingly annoyed, tries each arcane remedy suggested by the creatures he comes upon in the woods.
艾略特(Elliott)和卢茨(Lutz)是一对傻乎乎的熊表兄弟，他们正在愉快地野餐时，艾略特打起了嗝，卢茨取笑他。艾略特越来越恼怒，他在树林里遇到了很多生物，他们跟他说了各种神秘的治疗方法，他一一尝试。
Though handstands, singing, water gulping and stomach poking are to no avail, Sissung’s freewheeling story delivers justice in the end for the teaser and the teased.
虽然倒立、唱歌、吞水和戳肚子都没用，西桑格随心所欲的故事在最后让取笑的人和被取笑的人都得到了公正的待遇。
PLEASE BRING BALLOONS
《请带气球来》(PLEASE BRING BALLOONS)
Written and illustrated by Lindsay Ward.32 pp. Dial. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 7)
琳赛·沃德(Lindsay Ward)编写、绘图。32页。拨号(Dial)出版社。16.99美元。（图画书，4至7岁。）
“It appeared unexpectedly. Peeking out of the polar bear’s saddle, a hint of paper.” So begins a fantastic adventure, as Emma fulfills the note’s request for balloons and flies toward the North Star on the back of a bear from the local carousel.
“它出乎意料地出现了。从北极熊的鞍里露出一个纸条。”一场神奇的冒险就此开始，艾玛(Emma)按照纸条上的要求去寻找气球，坐在当地旋转木马上的一只熊的背上向北极星飞去。
Ward, a cut-paper artist, gives her book great visual appeal with snippets of colorful origami paper, calendars and maps. After floating on icebergs and trekking through snowy mountains, girl and bear arrive at “a polar bear rumpus” (not quite as wild as “Where the Wild Things Are,” but nonetheless festive).
沃德是一名剪纸艺术家，她用五彩缤纷的剪纸、日历和地图让这本书在视觉上很有吸引力。在冰山上漂浮、在雪山上跋涉之后，女孩和熊卷入了一场“北极熊骚乱”（不像《野兽家园》[Where the Wild Things Are]那么野蛮，而是非常喜庆）。
I AM NOT LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD
《我不是小红帽》(I AM NOT LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD)
By Alessandro Lecis.Illustrated by Linda Wolfsgruber.Translated by Talia Rebecca Ergas.32 pp. Sky Pony Press. $16.95. (Picture book; ages 4 to 7)
亚历山德罗·莱奇斯(Alessandro Lecis)编写琳达·沃尔夫斯格鲁贝尔(Linda Wolfsgruber)绘图塔莉娅·丽贝卡·埃尔加斯(Talia Rebecca Ergas)翻译32页。天空小马出版社。16.95美元。（图画书，4至7岁。）
In this tale — enigmatic, like the best folklore — a delicately etched, old-fashioned-looking girl meets an enormous polar bear in the woods. Together they travel to a place near the moon where the girl gathers “snow fluffier than the clouds, whiter than milk, and fresher than vanilla ice cream.”
在这个神秘的、类似最好的民间传说的故事中，一个五官精致、长相传统的小女孩在树林中遇到了一只庞大的北极熊。他们一起旅行到靠近月亮的一个地方，小女孩在那里收集“比云还蓬松、比牛奶还白、比香草冰激凌还新鲜的雪”。
Upon their return home, the bear lumbers away and the girl finds her basket empty, for it seems that snow, like magical bears, can be preserved only in memory — or perhaps in books as enchanting as this one.
他们回到家后，那只熊慢慢离去了，小女孩发现她的篮子也空了，也许雪和神奇的熊一样，只能留在记忆里——也许也留在那些令人难忘的书中，比如这一本。