TIME FOR BED, FRED!
1.《该上床了，弗莱德》(Time for Bed，Fred!)
Written and illustrated by Yasmeen Ismail. 32 pp. Walker/Bloomsbury. $14.99. (Picture book; ages 2 to 5)
图文：雅思米恩·伊斯梅尔(Yasmeen Ismail)，32页，Walker/Bloomsbury出版社，14.99美元（图书，适合2至5岁）。
Ismail, a London-based illustrator with a background in animation, uses bright, beautiful brush strokes of watercolor to convey the manic, tail-wagging, mud-spattering energy that Fred, a furry black mop of a dog, brings to bedtime.
伊斯梅尔是一位伦敦插画师，有创作动画背景。他使用明亮美丽的水彩笔触，描绘出疯狂、爱摇尾巴、满身泥点、精力充沛的毛茸茸的小黑狗弗莱德怎样被送去睡觉。
Though Fred is the center of attention, Ismail adds just the right amount of decorative intensity to his surroundings: Look out for the cleverly appropriate book titles (“Woof,” “A Shaggy Tale”) that at last persuade this exuberant puppy to settle down for a story.
弗莱德是全书中心，但伊斯梅尔也为环境加上了装饰元素：书架上的书有巧妙的书名——《狼》、《毛绒的故事》等，它们至少可以让这只精力充沛的小狗安静下来听完一个故事。
IS THAT MY CAT?
2.《这是我的猫吗？》(Is That My Cat?)
Written and illustrated by Jonathan Allen. 28 pp. Boxer Books. $16.95. (Picture book; ages 2 to 6)
图文：乔纳森·艾伦(Jonathan Allen)，28页，Boxer Books出版社，16.95美元（图书，适合2至6岁）。
No slim kitty, this cat is nearly as wide as she is long, and seems to spend all day eating and sleeping. The boy who cares for her is perplexed.
这只猫可不瘦，体型几乎是正方形，好像整天都在吃和睡，照顾她的男孩很困惑。
“My cat is a little cat who leaps in and out of the cat flap,” he insists, while Allen’s pictures suggest otherwise: The cat, Winnie-the-Pooh-like, gets stuck with her front half inside and her back half out. What’s going on? Soon, the cat’s reverted to her old svelte self, but there’s a big surprise (six little ones, really) mewing in the closet.
“我的猫是一只小猫，可以从猫洞钻进钻出，”他坚持说，但艾伦的图却并非如此，这只猫像维尼熊一样胖，卡在猫洞里进不去出不来。后来呢？后来这只猫恢复了苗条体型，但是出现了一个大惊喜（其实是六个小惊喜）在柜子里喵喵叫。
SHOE DOG
3.《鞋子狗》(Shoe Dog)
By Megan McDonald. Illustrated by Katherine Tillotson. 40 pp. Richard Jackson/Atheneum. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 3 to 6)
梅根·麦克唐纳(Megan McDonald)著，凯瑟琳娜·迪洛斯顿(Katherine Tilloston)绘图，40页，Richard Jackson/Atheneum出版社，17.99美元（图书，适合3至6岁）。
“Dog wanted a home. A real home. A place full of hundreds of nose kisses, dozens of tummy rubs.” Adopted by “Herself,” Dog couldn’t be happier, until he is banished to the basement for chewing up shoes.
“小狗想要一个家，一个真正的家，一个充满碰鼻吻和爱抚的地方，”这本书改编自《她自己》(Herself)一书，这只小狗十分欢乐，但后来因为咬鞋子被关进了地下室。
In Tillotson’s charcoal-and-crayon drawings, the scribbly dog’s desires are at odds with his owner’s elegant wardrobe. McDonald — of the Judy Moody books — knows how to tell this story from the puppy’s perspective; young readers may find they share his sensibility, if not (we hope!) his habits.
迪洛斯顿使用炭笔和蜡笔绘画，在她笔下，这只涂鸦小狗就是爱和主人华丽的衣橱过不去。创作过朱迪·穆迪(Judy Moody)系列图书的麦克唐纳知道该怎样从小狗的视角讲故事，小读者会发现他们会和这只小狗产生同感，不过可不要染上它的毛病。
MATILDA’S CAT
4.《玛蒂尔达的猫》(Matilda's Cat)
Written and illustrated by Emily Gravett. 32 pp. Simon & Schuster. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)
图文：艾米丽·格莱维特，32页，Simon & Schuster出版社，16.99美元（图书，适合4至8岁）。
Dressed in a stripy cat suit, Matilda, who looks to be about 4, has all sorts of ideas for how to play with her similarly striped cat. But kitty turns her nose up at each activity Matilda proposes, from tree-climbing to bike-riding — even the promising prospect of fooling around with yarn.
玛蒂尔达穿着一件条纹猫外套，大概有四岁，有各种花样和她的条纹猫一起玩。但是无论是爬树还是骑车，猫都不感兴趣，就连玩毛线球都不好。
Gravett’s charming pictures of the determined girl and her skeptical cat are full of funny details as the two struggle to figure out what they have in common. Could it involve napping?
格莱维特迷人的图画描绘了这个坚决的女孩和满腹狐疑的猫，充满有趣的细节，她俩拼命想找出共同的兴趣，睡觉算吗？
SPARKY!
5.《活泼！》(Sparky!)
By Jenny Offill. Illustrated by Chris Appelhans. 40 pp. Schwartz & Wade. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)
詹尼·奥菲尔(Jenny Offill)著，克里斯·阿佩尔汉斯(Chris Appelhans)绘，44页，Schwartz & Wade出版社，16.99美元（图书，适合4至8岁）。
Perhaps not everyone will see the humor in naming a sloth Sparky, but this distinctively illustrated story will amuse those who do. A lonely girl, painted in rainy-day watercolor washes of teal and brown, longs for a pet. Her mother agrees, if it “doesn’t need to be walked or bathed or fed.”
给树懒起名叫“活泼”，或许不是所有人都能从中看出幽默感，但能看出的人肯定会从这本特别的图书中得到乐趣。一个用蓝绿色和棕色调水彩画出的可爱女孩想要一只宠物。妈妈同意了，“如果它不用遛，不用洗澡也不用喂就行。”
The sloth that arrives by Express Mail spends most of his time slumped over a tree branch, but his presence brings a smile of delight to his young owner; he really is just what she wanted.
于是这只树懒被快递送来了，大多数时间它都趴在树枝上，但它的出现为小主人带来了欢笑，它就是她想要的。