TEMPE, Ariz. — Defense Secretary Ashton Carter on Monday threw the weight of the Pentagon behind President Obama’s fight to push a trade deal with Asia through Congress, warning that Asian markets are being gobbled up by global competitors.
亚利桑那州坦佩——针对奥巴马总统在国会推动的一项与亚洲的贸易协议，国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)周一表达了五角大楼的支持，他警告称，亚洲市场正在被全球竞争者瓜分。
Mr. Carter linked the military strength of the United States to its economic progress, using the start of his first trip as defense secretary to America’s Pacific allies to help the Obama administration in its efforts to push through the trade deal, known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
卡特指出了美国的军事实力与经济发展的关系，利用自己即将开始上任后对首次访问亚太盟友的契机，帮助奥巴马政府推动这项贸易协议，即跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）。
If the United States does not go through with the pact, a 12-nation accord that administration officials view as a linchpin for the Obama administration’s strategic pivot to Asia, “we are going to take ourselves out of the game,” Mr. Carter said during a speech at the McCain Institute at Arizona State University.
政府官员把这个由12国参与的协定看做是奥巴马政府转向亚洲战略的关键。卡特在亚利桑那州立大学麦凯恩研究所(McCain Institute at Arizona State University)发表演讲时说，如果美国无法通过这项协定，“我们就是主动放弃了比赛”。
“Time is running out,” he said of the accord, which is still under negotiation but nearing completion. “We already see countries in the region trying to carve up these markets.”
“时间已经不多了，”他提到该协定时说。这项协定仍在谈判之中，但已接近完成。“我们已经看到该地区的一些国家正试图瓜分这些市场。”
For the Defense Department, it was an odd foray into the world of trade politics, which involve shifting alliances of high tech industries and big businesses in California and the Northeast versus the more traditional skeptics of wide-ranging trade agreements, including some labor unions and manufacturing states. But Mr. Carter appeared to relish it, claiming that “passing TPP is as important to me as another aircraft carrier.”
对于国防部来说，介入贸易政治领域的举动显得十分不同寻常，这其中涉及两大对立阵营，一边是加州及美国东北部的高科技产业和大企业组成的不稳定同盟，一边是较传统的广泛贸易协议怀疑者，包括一些工会和制造业集中的州。不过，卡特似乎乐在其中，他说，“对我来说，TPP协定的通过和再造一艘航空母舰同样重要。”
President Obama, representing a Democratic Party that has typically been wary of trade accords, has walked a fine line trying to satisfy enough members of his own base while also relying on Republicans, who tend to support the accords.
奥巴马总统代表的民主党向来对贸易协定心存警惕，他正在小心翼翼地一方面尽可能讨好本方阵营的成员，一方面还要依赖倾向于支持此类协议的共和党人。
He is battling a rare alliance of liberal Democrats and Tea Party Republicans, while counting on more traditional opponents of his agenda like Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, and Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, to try to secure “fast track” trade promotion authority that would allow Congress to approve or reject the trade pact, but not to amend it.
奥巴马的对手是一个由自由派民主党人和茶党共和党人组成的罕见联盟，而他所依赖的则是自己议程的传统反对者，比如威斯康辛州共和党众议员保罗·D·莱恩(Paul D. Ryan)和犹他州共和党参议员奧林·G·哈奇(Orrin G. Hatch)，从而获得贸易促进授权的“快速通道”，即国会可以批准或拒绝这项贸易协定，但不能进行修订。
Those are not the type of issues that people at the Pentagon talk about routinely. “As secretary of defense, I see our military personnel demonstrate every day that American men and women, American innovation and American hard work do not just compete, but outpace every other country in the world,” Mr. Carter said. “By passing trade promotion authority and finalizing a strong TPP, we will allow American workers to do the same.”
这并不是五角大楼里的人们通常会讨论的问题。“作为国防部长，我看到我们的军事人员每天都在证明，美国的男人和女人，美国的创新和勤奋，不光要竞争，还要超过世界上其他任何一个国家，”卡特说。“通过贸易促进授权并达成强大的TPP协定，我们就能让美国的工人也做到这一点。”
For Mr. Carter, the speech also had another benefit: He could throw his weight behind a cause supported by the man who may have almost as much influence as President Obama over his tenure as defense secretary — Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
对于卡特来说，此次演讲还有另一个好处：他可以维护亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)所支持的事业，此人对他这个国防部长的位置所拥有的影响力，和奥巴马总统几乎不相上下。
In his speech, Mr. Carter praised the Arizona senator’s support of improved ties to Asia.
讲话中，卡特对麦凯恩支持改善美国与亚洲关系的态度表示了赞扬。 “Twenty years ago, President Clinton was looking for congressional partners to help normalize relations with Vietnam,” Mr. Carter said. “Senator McCain had plenty of personal reasons to say no — especially after all he had endured there as a prisoner of war. But he realized that normalization would help our country move beyond a polarizing conflict and develop new ties with an important country in an increasingly important region.”
“20年前，克林顿总统曾在国会中寻找伙伴，以实现与越南关系的正常化，”卡特说。“麦凯恩参议员有足够的个人理由说不——尤其是他作为战俘在那里所经历的一切。但他意识到，关系的正常化将帮助我国超越一场极化冲突，在一个越来越重要的地区，与一个重要国家发展新的关系。
Mr. McCain did not attend the speech — he met briefly with Mr. Carter at the airport in Phoenix beforehand, but had other business to attend to, defense officials said. “Senator John McCain, who I just met with here in Phoenix, is an American hero,” Mr. Carter said after the meeting.
麦凯恩没有到场——国防官员称，他此前曾在菲尼克斯的机场与卡特短暂会面，但还有其他事务需要处理。卡特会后称，“我刚刚在菲尼克斯见到的约翰·麦凯恩参议员，是一名美国英雄。”
Whether Monday’s outreach to Mr. McCain will translate into an easier road for the Defense Department before the Armed Services Committee remains to be seen. Mr. McCain, as the ranking Republican on the Senate committee, was a frequent critic of Chuck Hagel, Mr. Carter’s predecessor at the Pentagon. Now, with the Republican takeover of the Senate, Mr. McCain has assumed the leadership of the committee and he has shown little willingness to make it easier for either the president or his defense secretary on matters of the American military.
周一向麦凯恩抛出橄榄枝的做法，是否能让国防部在军事委员会(Armed Services Committee)面前轻松一些，还有待观察。作为参议院委员会中级别最高的共和党人，麦凯恩经常批评卡特在国防部的前任查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)。如今共和党人在参议院占据主导，麦凯恩便承担起了委员会的领导职责，他在美国军队的问题上似乎不打算给总统或其国防部长好脸色看。