WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter believes he has come up with a way to help the Pentagon retain troops: freezing sperm and eggs.
华盛顿——美国国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)认为自己找到了一个办法来帮助五角大楼保持军力：冷冻精子和卵子。
As part of an initiative to make military service more appealing and family friendly, Mr. Carter has created a pilot program that will pay for troops to have their reproductive cells preserved.
为了让服兵役更有吸引力、不排斥家庭生活，在其他计划之外，卡特提出了免费帮军人冷冻生殖细胞的试点项目。
The goal is to give those in uniform the peace of mind that if they are hurt on the battlefield — hundreds of veterans suffered injuries to their reproductive organs in Iraq and Afghanistan — they would still be able to have children.
这样做的目的是让军人感到安心：如果他们在战场上负了伤——数以百计的官兵在伊拉克和阿富汗参战时生殖器官受损——他们仍然能够生育后代。
The program is also meant to encourage women to stay in the military during their 20s and 30s, a time when many leave after giving birth. By freezing their eggs, they will have the flexibility to remain deployed overseas or otherwise pursue their careers and put off having children.
该方案也希望鼓励二三十岁的女性留在军中，因为很多女性会在这个年龄段生完孩子后退役。如果帮她们冷冻了卵子，她们就有了灵活性，可以继续部署在海外，或者以其他方式发展事业，推迟生育时间。
Women who reach 10 years of service — what Mr. Carter called “their peak years for starting a family” — have a retention rate that is 30 percent lower than their male counterparts.
女性在服兵役10年后——也就是卡特所说的“成家高峰期”——留在军中的比例比男性低30%。
Few companies offer egg and sperm freezing, so the initiative will place the Pentagon — one of the world’s largest employers — at the forefront on the issue, reproductive advocates said. Some Silicon Valley companies like Facebook have begun offering to cover the cost of freezing eggs — which can be more than $10,000 — to help recruit top female candidates.
倡导生育权的人士表示，提供冷冻卵子和精子福利的企业寥寥无几，所以该提议将把五角大楼——世界上最大的雇主之一——推向这个议题的前沿。Facebook等硅谷公司已经开始提供免费冷冻卵子的福利——费用有时超过1万美元——来帮助招募顶尖的女性人才。
But the initiative raises legal and ethical questions that Defense Department officials will have to navigate.
不过，这个方案会引发一些法律和伦理上的问题，而国防部官员将不得不面对它们。
“Freezing sperm and eggs is not like freezing chicken for dinner,” said Arthur Caplan, a professor of bioethics at New York University’s Langone Medical Center. “What happens if you die — can your wife use it? And what if your mother wants grandchildren and your wife doesn’t, does that mean the sperm can be used with a surrogate? If you’re cognitively disabled, can it be used? And what happens if the company housing your sperm or eggs goes bankrupt?”
“冷冻精子、卵子和冷冻晚饭要用的鸡肉不一样，”纽约大学兰贡医学中心(NYU Langone Medical Center)的生物伦理学教授阿瑟·卡普兰(Arthur Caplan)说。“万一你死了，事情会什么样——你妻子可以使用它吗？如果你妈妈想要孙子，而你妻子不愿意，这是否意味着可以为这些精子寻找代孕？如果你出现了认知障碍，这些精子可以使用吗？如果保存你的精子或卵子的公司破产了，又会怎么样？”
Dr. Caplan said that the practice of freezing eggs had become widespread only in the past five years, and that it could be more problematic than preserving sperm, which has been done for decades. He said the Pentagon should inform service members that the freezing of eggs is not always successful and can cause complications.
卡普兰博士解释，冷冻卵子的做法在过去五年里才变得比较普遍，而且它可能比冷冻精子更加麻烦。后一种做法已经持续了好几十年。他说，五角大楼应告知军人，卵子冷冻的成功率并不是百分之百，而且可能会引起并发症。
A Pentagon spokesman declined to comment on the legal and ethical questions, saying that details were being worked out. The Defense Department is expected to outline the program in a memo from Mr. Carter in the coming weeks. The program will be re-evaluated in two years, and could ultimately be made permanent.
五角大楼一名发言人拒绝置评这些法律和伦理问题。他说，相关细节正在拟定之中。国防部计划在未来几周内整理出该项目的要点，列在卡特的备忘录中。两年后，该项目将进行重新评估，有可能变成永久项目。
“As many families know all too well, these treatments are very expensive and often require multiple attempts,” the spokesman, Matthew Allen, said. “We know that providing this benefit across the board would result in a significant cost for the department. In addition to cost, we want to better understand the importance of this to our force, as well as its impact on recruiting and retention. In addition to hormone therapies and egg and sperm freezing, we are going to continue looking at ways to provide additional support for these types of treatments in the future.”
“很多家庭都非常清楚，这些医疗方法费用非常昂贵，而且往往需要多次尝试，”这位发言人马修·艾伦(Matthew Allen)说。“我们知道，全面提供这种福利可能需要国防部付出大量经费。而且在费用之外，我们需要更好地理解此举对美国军队的重要性，对招募和留住官兵的影响。除了激素疗法和卵子、精子冷冻之外，今后我们还会继续探寻其他方式，提供更多这种类型的医疗服务。”
The Pentagon estimates that the program could cost about $150 million over five years. It will be offered through Tricare, the military’s health care plan.
五角大楼估计，这项计划可能在五年内耗资1.5亿美元。它将通过军队医疗保健计划Tricare提供这项服务。
During the height of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, several cryogenic firms offered to cover the cost for troops to have their reproductive cells frozen. It is not clear whether any soldiers ultimately used those materials to have children. In recent years, some fertility advocates have lobbied the Defense Department to cover the cost.
伊拉克和阿富汗战事正酣的时候，有几家冷冻公司主动提出免费为官兵冷冻生殖细胞。目前还不清楚是否有军人使用了这些细胞生育了孩子。近年来，一些倡导生育权的人士一直在游说国防部为该服务支付费用。
Mr. Carter first mentioned the new program in a speech last week at the Pentagon about the Defense Department’s efforts to improve the lives of service members. He focused on longer maternity leaves, improved child care and the creation of lactation rooms at military facilities. He touched briefly on freezing sperm and eggs.
卡特首次提到这个新项目是他上周在五角大楼发表演讲的时候，主题是国防部将如何改善军人生活。他重点介绍了延长产假，改善儿童保健服务，在军事设施中设置哺乳室，其间简短谈到了冷冻精子和卵子的话题。
“This investment will also provide greater flexibility for our troops who want to start a family, but find it difficult because of where they find themselves in their careers,” Mr. Carter said.
“有些军人想要成家，但又发现自己所处的事业阶段很难顾得上生孩子，这项投资也将为他们提供更大的灵活性，”卡特说。
“Particularly for women who are midgrade officers and enlisted personnel, this benefit will demonstrate that we understand the demands upon them and want to help them balance commitments to force and commitments to family,” Mr. Carter said. “We want to retain them in our military.”
“特别是对于中层女军官和女兵，这项福利将证明，我们理解她们的需求，想帮她们平衡对部队和对家庭的责任，”卡特说。“我们想让她们留在军队里。”
The initiative is part of a series of measures that Mr. Carter has pushed to create what he calls “the force of the future.” He is worried that the military has not adapted enough to compete with top companies for millennials, who put a greater emphasis on work-life balance than did previous generations.
这项倡议是卡特推动的一系列举措的一部分。这些举措旨在创造他所说的“未来的部队”。他担心美国军队还没有完全适应与顶级企业争夺千禧一代。这一代人要比他们的前辈更重视工作与生活的平衡。
In November, Mr. Carter said that the Pentagon would expand its sabbatical programs to more service members so they could gain experience in academia or different industries. He said that the military was working to modernize its retirement benefits and was creating a LinkedIn-style program to match service members with open positions. In December, he opened all combat positions to women.
去年11月，卡特称五角大楼将扩大休假计划，让其惠及更多军人，这样他们就能获得在学术界或不同行业领域的经验。他表示，军方正在努力实现退役福利的现代化，并且还在开发一个类似领英(LinkedIn)的项目，帮助军人寻找开放的岗位。12月，他向女性放开了所有作战岗位。
Sean Tipton, a spokesman for the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, said he hoped that the rest of the federal government would follow the military’s lead.
美国生殖医学会(American Society for Reproductive Medicine)发言人肖恩·蒂普顿(Sean Tipton)表示，他希望联邦政府的其他机构跟随军方的脚步。