WASHINGTON — A three-year study by the Pentagon has concluded that American intelligence agencies are “not yet organized or fully equipped” to detect when foreign powers are developing nuclear weapons or ramping up their existing arsenals, and calls for using some of the same techniques that the National Security Agency has developed against terrorists.
华盛顿——经过一项耗时三年的研究，五角大楼得出结论，美国的情报机构“尚未形成充分的组织和能力”，无法探查到外国势力的核武器开发情况和对现存核武库的升级，它呼吁使用国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）在应对恐怖分子时开发的一些技术。
The study, a 100-page report by the Defense Science Board, argues that the detection abilities needed in cases like Iran — including finding “undeclared facilities and/or covert operations” — are “either inadequate, or more often, do not exist.”
这份长达100页的报告由国防科学委员会(Defense Science Board)起草，其中指出，在伊朗这类案例中，侦测能力——包括发现“未申明的设施和/或秘密行动”——有时是“不足的，而在更多的时候，则是根本不存在。”
The report is circulating just two months before President Obama will attend his third nuclear security summit meeting, set for March in The Hague, an effort he began in order to lock down loose nuclear materials and, eventually, reduce the number of countries that could build nuclear weapons. Mr. Obama’s efforts to sweep up the materials have largely been considered a success. But the report concluded that potential new nuclear states are “emerging in numbers not seen since the early days of the Cold War,” and that “monitoring for proliferation should be a top national security objective — but one for which the nation is not yet organized or fully equipped to address.”
这份报告发布之时，距离奥巴马总统参加3月在海牙举行的核安全峰会还有两个月，那将是他第三次参加该峰会，他希望通过此举来控制散布在外的核材料，并最终减少有能力制造核武器的国家的数量。奥巴马在清理核材料方面的举措被广泛认为是成功的。但是报告得出的结论是，有掌握核能潜力的国家“数量猛增，速度之快是自冷战初期至今所未曾有过的，”而“对这种扩散的监控应该是国家安全的首要目标，然而我国尚未形成充分的组织和能力来做到这一点。”
The report confirmed what many outside experts have learned anecdotally: While the most famous intelligence failure in the past decade involving nuclear weapons occurred in Iraq, where the C.I.A. and others saw a program that did not exist, the bigger concern may be that major nuclear programs were entirely missed.
报告证实了外界许多专家已经有所耳闻的事：过去十年里，涉及核武器的最出名的情报失误发生在伊拉克，中央情报局(CIA)等机构在该国发现了一个实际并不存在的核项目，然而更让人担心的可能是美国完全漏过了一些大规模的核项目。
American officials first learned of a reactor in Syria, built with North Korean assistance, when the Israelis alerted them. (Israel destroyed the facility in 2007.) North Korea, early during the Obama administration, built a uranium enrichment facility that went undetected until the North showed it off to a visiting professor from Stanford.
美国官员第一次得知叙利亚有一个在朝鲜协助下建造的反应堆，是因为收到了以色列人发来的警报。（以色列于2007年摧毁了那座设施。）朝鲜在奥巴马上任初期建造了一个铀浓缩设施，一直没被探查到，直到朝鲜方面拿它向斯坦福大学(Stanford)的访问教授进行炫耀。
“The lesson from this history is that we found these at the last moment, if we found them at all,” said Bruce Riedel, a former C.I.A. expert on terrorism and nuclear proliferation who is now at the Brookings Institution.
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的布鲁斯·里德尔(Bruce Riedel) 说，“这段历史给我们的教训是，我们直到最后关头才发现该设施，有的可能最后也没发现。”里德尔原为中情局恐怖主义和核扩散专家。
The Defense Science Board came to a similar conclusion. It said that in the future, satellite photographs and other reconnaissance will most likely be of limited use. Instead, it suggested that many of the cyber and big-data programs developed by the N.S.A. should be used to detect proliferation, a bet that the United States would be more likely to pick up evidence of scientists and engineers talking, emailing, or searching for nuclear-related technologies than it would be to see a weapons facility being built.
国防科委会得出了类似的结论。它说卫星照片等侦查手段在将来很有可能派不上大用场。它表示NSA开发的网络和大数据程序中有许多可以用于侦测核扩散，希望这样可以更多地发现科学家和工程师在讨论、通过邮件交流或搜索相关核技术的证据，而不是在核武设施开始施工之后才得到消息。
In fact, the growing need to detect proliferation was one of the arguments Mr. Obama made last Friday in his speech explaining why many of the programs started by the N.S.A. in recent years must be preserved.
事实上，上周五奥巴马发表演说解释为什么近年NSA启动的许多项目必须保留时，核扩散探测的紧迫性加剧就是其中一个依据。
A former senior intelligence official familiar with the report, which was commissioned by Ashton B. Carter, the former deputy secretary of defense who resigned late last year, said the effort was to focus the government’s efforts on the global dimensions of the atomic threat.
一位熟悉该报告的前高级情报官员说，这样做是试图将政府行动的注意力集中到全球范围的核武威胁上。报告是由去年底辞职的前国防部副部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)委托进行的。
“One of the highest priorities of successive administrations is countering proliferation,” the official said. “But there’s little coherence on what agencies do to move that interest forward.”
“历届政府极为重要的一项工作就是反扩散，”这位官员说，“然而各个部门在将这项工作向前推进方面缺乏协调一致的行动。”
The range of government departments that were interviewed by the Defense Science Board underscores how spread out the effort has become: Officials of several of the nation’s 16 intelligence agencies participated, along with four of the Energy Department’s National Laboratories and its National Nuclear Security Administration, the Department of Homeland Security, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency and the White House’s National Security Council.
国防科委会为此约谈了众多政府部门，范围之广凸显出此次行动的规模之大：全国16家情报机构中有数家机构的官员参与其中，此外还有4所能源部国家实验室(Energy Department’s National Laboratories)及其国家核安全管理局(National Nuclear Security Administration)、国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)、国防威胁减控局(Defense Threat Reduction Agency)和白宫的国家安全委员会( National Security Council)。
The former senior official said that many signs of a nuclear program could be found by monitoring open sources, and that clues there are frequently overlooked.
这位前高级官员称，通过监听开放信息源可以发现许多核项目的痕迹，还有一些时常被忽视的线索。
“There’s always evidence of it,” he said of clandestine nuclear activity, speaking on the condition of anonymity. For instance, he said, how much of a country’s gross domestic product is devoted to certain industries could be a significant clue.
对于隐秘的核活动，这位要求匿名的前官员说，“总是会露出端倪的。”比如他说一个国家的国内生产总值有多少是用在某个产业上的，就是一个显著的提示。”
“From open sources you can put that together,” he said. “But no entity in the government brings coherence to all these things.”
“你可以对开放源头得来的东西进行整理，”他说，“但是政府中没有这样一个实体，可以让所有东西连贯起来。”
The report did not name any specific countries that are under American surveillance because of their current or suspected weapons programs. But it is no secret that the United States spends enormous resources tracking Pakistan’s arsenal, along with those of Russia, China, India, North Korea and Israel.
报告没有说明，具体有哪些国家因为正在进行或疑似的武器项目而受到美国的监控。但是，美国投入了大量资源对巴基斯坦的武器储备进行跟踪，此外还有俄罗斯、中国、印度、朝鲜和以色列，这些都不是秘密。
The report implicitly called into question whether administration officials should be so confident that they would detect if Iran ever violated the nuclear accord that began this week.
报告含蓄地对政府官员的过分自信提出了质疑，认为一旦伊朗违反了本周开始实施的核协议，他们可能不见得能侦测到。