NUSA DUA, Indonesia — Leaders at the Pacific Rim economic summit meeting declared at the end of their two-day meeting here Tuesday that the global trade talks known as the Doha round were at an “impasse” and urged trade ministers, due to meet here in December, to get negotiations back on track.
印度尼西亚努沙杜瓦——周二，在当地为期两天的泛太平洋地区经济峰会结束时，与会领导人发表声明称，所谓多哈回合(Doha round)国际贸易谈判已陷“僵局”，并敦促定于12月会面的各国贸易部长让谈判重回正轨。
In a strongly worded statement, the leaders of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, suggested the talks, run by the World Trade Organization and designed to reduce tariffs, particularly for the least developed countries, risked collapse.
在一份措辞严厉的声明中，亚太经合组织论坛的领导人表示，多哈回合谈判面临崩溃危险。该谈判在世界贸易组织（World Trade Organization，简称WTO）框架下开展，旨在降低关税，尤其是针对最不发达国家的关税。
“We are now at the 11th hour to put the negotiating function of the World Trade Organization back on track,” said the statement, which was read by the host of the summit meeting, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia.
“我们现在处于让WTO谈判功能重回正轨的最后关头，”声明称。峰会主持者、印尼总统苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)宣读了该声明。
The meeting was clouded by the absence of President Obama, who stayed in Washington to try to resolve the fiscal crisis. Without Mr. Obama, who was represented by Secretary of State John Kerry, a brighter spotlight fell on China’s new president, Xi Jinping.
奥巴马总统的缺席给此次会议蒙上了阴影，他留在华盛顿试图解决美国财政危机。国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)代替他出席峰会，中国新任国家主席习近平由此获得了更多关注。
There was relatively little to show for the two days of meetings, dinners and lunches attended by the leaders of 21 economies in the Pacific Rim region, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
持续两天的会议、晚餐和午餐汇集了泛太平洋地区21个经济体及台湾和香港的领导人，产生的成果却相对较小。
Several officials acknowledged that the gathering, held in the luxurious confines of the beach resort of Nusa Dua on the Indonesian island of Bali, produced even fewer substantive accomplishments than last year’s meeting, where the group approved an environmental goods and services accord that called for the tariffs on 54 products, like solar panels, to be reduced to 5 percent or less.
此次会议在印尼巴厘岛努沙杜瓦海滩度假村的豪华氛围中举行。几名官员承认，会议的实质性成果甚至少于去年的峰会，当时，与会国批准通过了一项有关环境产品及服务的协议，协议呼吁将太阳能组件等54种商品的关税降至5%甚至更低。
Still, the urgency of rescuing the Doha round from collapse caught the summit meeting’s attention, said Allan Bollard, executive director of the APEC Secretariat, which is based in Singapore.
尽管如此，位于新加坡的亚太经合组织秘书处(APEC Secretariat)执行主任艾伦·博拉尔德(Allan Bollard)称，拯救多哈回合免于崩溃的紧迫性还是引起了峰会的关注。
“There’s a strong message they really want Doha to work, but there’s also at the same time quite a high expectation with real big problems around it and something of a sense of frustration about that,” he said.
“他们确实希望多哈回合发挥作用，这个讯息十分明显，与此同时，他们也意识到多哈回合很可能会出现极大的问题，因此有一些沮丧情绪，”博拉尔德说。
“In realistic terms, they are feeling that there has to be some deliverables out of Doha – an expectation that there could be a ‘Doha Light.’ They could go in a number of different ways in the next couple of months.”
“从现实的角度讲，他们觉得多哈回合必定产生了一些实际的成果——他们期待存在所谓的‘多哈希望’。接下来几个月里，他们可以通过几种不同的方式让其运转。”
But in fact, Mr. Bollard added, an agreement has to be reached by early November, a month before a gathering of 159 trade ministers in Bali in early December. These ministers rarely engage in the nitty-gritty negotiations, he said.
但实际上，博拉尔德补充道，到11月初，也就是距12月初159名贸易部长在巴厘岛会面还有一个月的时候，谈判必须达成一项协议。这些贸易部长很少会参与有关具体细节的谈判，博拉尔德说。
The logjam over the Doha round has allowed efforts at regional trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a group of 12 countries led by the United States in negotiations designed to lower tariffs across a broad range of items, to gain steam instead. At the end of the summit meeting, the United States trade representative, Michael Froman, met with trade ministers from the involved countries to urge completing the Trans-Pacific Partnership by the White House’s target of the end of the year.
多哈回合的僵局使泛太平洋伙伴关系（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）等区域性贸易谈判获得了发展势头。TPP由美国牵头，共有12个国家参与，开展旨在降低关税的谈判，涵盖一大批种类繁多的商品。峰会结束时，美国贸易代表迈克尔·费罗曼(Michael Froman)和参与TPP的相关国家的贸易部长会面，敦促他们按白宫设定的目标在今年年底前完成TPP的相关谈判。
After that session, the White House released a statement saying the leaders of the 12 nations announced they were “on track to complete the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations.”
前述会面之后，白宫发表声明称，12个国家的领导人声称他们“正在按计划完成TPP谈判”。
Ministers and negotiators have made “significant progress in recent months on all the legal texts and annexes on access to our respective goods, services, investment, financial services, government procurement and temporary entry markets,” the statement said.
声明称，“最近几个月”，各国部长和谈判人员“已经就有关各自商品、服务、投资、金融服务、政府采购及暂时进入市场资格的所有法律文本和附录取得了重大进展”。
Economists have estimated that the Trans-Pacific Partnership would be the largest trade deal in the world, with output of an estimated $28 trillion. The North American Free Trade Agreement, currently the largest trade area, produces an estimated $17 trillion in goods and services.
经济学家曾预计，TPP将成为世界上最大的贸易协议，总产值估计为28万亿美元（约合171万亿元人民币）。目前最大的贸易区域协定是北美自由贸易协定(North American Free Trade Agreement)，商品及服务总产值估计为17万亿美元。
China has not been invited to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and has proposed its own trade grouping, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership.
中国没有获得加入TPP的邀请，并已倡议成立另一个贸易组织——区域全面经济伙伴关系(Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership)。
In its account of the APEC summit, the China Daily, an English language newspaper in China, slammed the Trans-Pacific Partnership. It said the negotiations over it were “confidential talks” and the pact was “widely considered a new step for the United States to dominate the economies in the Asia-Pacific region.”
在报道APEC峰会时，中国英语报纸《中国日报》猛烈抨击TPP。报道称，TPP谈判都是“秘密会谈”，该协定“被广泛视为美国控制亚太地区经济体的一个新举措”。
At the APEC gala dinner Monday night, the leaders wore Indonesian shirts specially tailored for the occasion. Mr. Kerry was given a purple shirt made of a silk-like Balinese fabric called “endek” with a design that represented nine deities of Hinduism. Bali is a Hindu island in the Muslim-majority country of Indonesia.
在周一举行的APEC晚宴上，领导人们穿上了特别为峰会制作的印度尼西亚衬衣。克里拿到的是一件紫色衬衣，材质是与真丝类似的巴厘岛布料“安代克”，衬衣的设计包含代表印度教九个神灵的元素。印度尼西亚是一个穆斯林占多数的国家，而巴厘岛是一个信奉印度教的岛屿。
Mr. Xi wore a red batik shirt, and the Russian leader, Vladimir V. Putin, was dressed in a green one. Before the leaders sat down to the banquet, Mr. Yudhoyono played “Happy Birthday” on a guitar for Mr. Putin, who celebrated his 61st birthday Monday.
习近平穿了一件红色蜡染衬衣，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(President Vladimir V. Putin)穿的则是绿色衬衣。在领导人入席之前，尤多约诺用吉他为普京弹奏了《生日快乐歌》，周一是普京的61岁生日。
The custom of wearing local garb at the gathering started in 1993 when President Bill Clinton distributed bomber jackets to be worn for the group photo at the summit that year in Seattle. In 2011, President Obama, the host of the summit meeting in Honolulu, tried to end the tradition, calling the local garb – which each year seemed to become more awkward – “silly shirts.” That year, the leaders posed for their photo in business wear.
身穿当地服饰参加活动的惯例始于1993年，当时，比尔·克林顿总统(Bill Clinton)在西雅图峰会期间分发短夹克供集体合影时穿。2011年，奥巴马总统在火奴鲁鲁主办峰会时试图结束这项传统，称当地服饰——似乎一年比一年难看——“太土了”。那一年，领导人们身穿西装合影。
Next year’s APEC summit will be held in Beijing. At a news conference called by the Chinese to discuss their facilities for the summit in the Chinese capital, journalists asked about the severe air pollution that prompts many residents to wear face masks.
明年的APEC会议将在北京举行。中国召开新闻发布会来介绍北京峰会的设施，记者们询问了有关空气污染严重的问题，空气问题促使很多北京居民戴上了口罩。
Zhao Huimin, the director general of the foreign affairs office of Beijing’s municipal government, did not say what specific measures would be taken to reduce the pollution levels.
北京市人民政府外事办公室主任赵会民没有提及将采取哪些具体措施来降低污染水平。
But, he said, there was little to worry about because the leaders would meet at a conference center at Yangi Lake in the Hairou district of Beijing, about an hour outside the city. The center, which was the site of the World Conference on Women in 1995, was in the suburbs, he said.
但他表示，不用担心空气问题，因为领导人们将在北京怀柔的雁栖湖举行会议，那里距离市区有大约一个小时的车程。他表示，会议中心位于郊区，该中心曾在1995年举办世界妇女大会(World Conference on Women)。