KIEV, Ukraine — An eerie calm and a light mist shrouded President Viktor F. Yanukovych’s sprawling residential compound just outside the capital on Saturday morning as street fighters from the center of Kiev made their way inside, gingerly passing a wrought-iron gate and cautioning one another about booby traps and snipers.
乌克兰基辅——周六早上，乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)位于首都郊外面积广阔的官邸上，笼罩着薄薄的雾气和一片诡异的宁静。武装起来的抗议民众从基辅市中心赶来，谨慎地穿过铸铁大门，互相提醒着这里或许有诡雷和狙击手。
They found none of either but discovered instead a world surely just as surreal as the charred wasteland of barricades and debris on the occupied central plaza that has been their home for months. It was a vista of bizarre and whimsical attractions on a grand scale, a panorama of waste and inexplicable taste.
他们既没有发现诡雷，也没有发现狙击手，而是发现了一个离奇的世界——与被抗议民众占领数月、视之为家的中心广场上布满路障和瓦砾的焦黑场景一样超现实。它以宏大的尺度呈现了诡谲的景象和离奇的场面，包罗万象地展示了铺张浪费和令人费解的品味。
They saw about a half-dozen large residences of various styles, a private zoo with rare breeds of goats, a coop for pheasants from Asia, a golf course, a garage filled with classic cars and a private restaurant in the form of a pirate ship, with the name “Galleon” on the stern.
他们见到了大约五六座风格各异的住宅建筑；一座私人动物园，其中有罕见品种的山羊、一笼来自亚洲的雉鸡；一座高尔夫球场；一个停满了各种经典轿车的车库；还有一座海盗船形的私人餐厅，船尾上标着“加利恩”(Galleon)的名字。
One man in the 31st Lviv Hundred, the small band of antigovernment militants that took control of the compound, hung a Ukrainian flag on a lamp post. A few dozen others walked about, seemingly dazed by what was happening. Some raised their clubs, pipes and bats into the air and yelled, “Glory to Ukraine!” and “Glory to its heroes!”
“31日利沃夫百人队”(31st Lviv Hundred)的一名男子在路灯柱子上悬挂了一面乌克兰国旗。“百人队”是一个反政府武装人士组成的小团体，占领了这座官邸。其他数十名“百人队”武装人员四处游荡，似乎对正在发生的情形感到惊讶，一些人把棍棒、钢管举到空中，高呼着“光荣属于乌克兰！”“光荣属于英雄！”
Whether it was the toppling of Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines or of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, the breaching of the presidential palace gates is a milestone of a revolution. But Kiev on Saturday was unusual in one sense. There was no sacking. The opposition unit that took control of the president’s complex, called Mezhigorye, kept it intact, at least for now. On Saturday, the president fled, and the presidential guard melted away. But members of the Lviv-based “hundred,” who had repeatedly confronted Mr. Yanukovych’s security forces on the streets, posted guards around his residential compound and prevented looting even as swarms of gawking Kiev residents strolled through its grounds.
无论是菲律宾的费迪南德·马科斯(Ferdinand Marcos)倒台，还是利比亚的穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Muammar el-Qaddafi)倒台，民众冲入总统府大门都标志着革命的一个里程碑。然而周六基辅发生的事件，从某种意义上看却异乎寻常。没有人抢夺财物，至少现在看来，控制着被称为梅日戈尔耶(Mezhigorye)的总统府邸的反对派团体，仍保证了它的完好。周六，总统逃跑了，总统的卫队也做鸟兽散。然而就在大批好奇的基辅市民涌来，在府邸内闲逛参观之时，来自利沃夫的百人团却在府邸周围安排了卫兵，防范劫掠。百人队曾在街头与亚努科维奇的安全部队反复进行对抗。
The reason, the street fighters said, was to preserve evidence of the ousted leader’s lavish lifestyle for his prosecution.
这些斗士说，这样做的原因是想保存这位被罢免总统奢靡生活的证据，等到公诉时使用。
One of the Lviv militants walked onto a gazebo ringed with plaster urns, removed his green military helmet and gazed out at the park and the Dnieper River.
利沃夫的一名斗士走进了一座四周围绕着石膏瓮的凉亭，摘下了绿色的军用头盔，眺望着院子和第聂伯河。
Another pair, wearing fetid, soot-smeared clothing from the square and carrying baseball bats, walked into an outbuilding, sat in chairs with plush blue and gold upholstery, pulled large yellow drinking glasses from a cabinet and began to photograph one another on their cellphones as if raising toasts.
另外两名示威者穿着在广场上熏得灰黑腥臭的衣服，手拿着棒球棒，走进了一座附属建筑，坐在镶着蓝色和金色装饰的精美椅子上，从一个柜子里取出大个的黄色酒杯，开始用手机互相照相，仿佛是在祝酒。
“We hoped for this but didn’t expect it,” said one, Roman Dakus. Mr. Dakus had been in Kiev at Independence Square, or Maidan as it is known here, off and on for three months, he said. “It was very, very difficult to stay on the square in the cold at night. But we warmed one another with our hearts and our souls.”
其中的一名，罗曼·达库斯(Roman Dakus)说，“我们都盼望着会有这一天，但没有指望它能到来。”达库斯参加了基辅独立广场(Independence Square)的示威，三个月来有时在场有时不在。在这里，人们直接将独立广场称为Maidan，意为“广场”。他说，“在寒冷的夜里，待在广场上非常、非常辛苦。但是我们会靠心和灵魂来相互取暖。”
Within a short time, a crowd gathered outside the gates. The street fighters threw them open, and Ukrainians, who were arriving by the thousands by early afternoon, flowed into the compound. “What a nightmare,” one man said in disgust, looking at the dining room of Mr. Yanukovych’s pirate ship, moored at the river bank, all oak and brass trim.
时间不长，门外就聚集了一群人。街头斗士猛地把门打开，午后不久数以千计的乌克兰民众赶来，涌进了院子。亚努科维奇的那艘海盗船就停泊在河边，橡木船身黄铜镶饰。其中一位看着海盗船里的餐厅，以厌恶的表情说，“真是一场噩梦。”
The complex was once a modest government site that Mr. Yanukovych turned into a private residence and then expanded, saying acquaintances had built or paid for many amenities. Previous Ukrainian presidents had not lived at the residence.
这座院落本来是一处朴素的政府建筑，亚努科维奇将它变成了私人住宅，之后又进行了扩建，他说熟人帮他修建了许多设施，或者为许多设施的修建提供了资金支持。过去的乌克兰总统并没有在此地居住过。
The street fighters decided not to open the buildings, saying they would wait for prosecutors and experts on valuable art to arrive and assess their contents.
街头斗士们决定不打开这些楼的大门，他们说要等待检察官和珍贵艺术品的专家到场，评估其中的物品。
Autocrats seem to have a propensity for private zoos, and Mr. Yanukovych’s palace complex contained multiple enclosures for exotic animals. Rare pheasants with magnificent, iridescent red tails scratched about in their cages, nervous from the crowds walking past and snapping pictures. The labels on the cages identified them as “Diamond pheasant” and “Japanese long-tailed pheasant.”
专制统治者似乎对私人动物园有一种癖好，亚努科维奇的宫殿里就有许多个豢养珍奇动物的场所。珍奇的雉鸡长着绚烂斑斓的红色尾巴，因为人群走过不断地照相，所以紧张地在笼子里挠地。笼子上的标签写道，它们是“钻石雉鸡”和“日本长尾鸡”。
Other cages held dogs, and there were pens for goats and what appeared to be rare breeds of pigs.
此外还有养狗的笼子，还有一些圈里养的是山羊，还有似乎是珍稀品种的猪。
The street fighters also found a heap of ash from burned documents, and used a raft to fish others from where they had been thrown into the river, laying them out carefully to dry.
示威民众还发现了焚烧文件留下的一堆灰烬。在文件被丢进河里的地方，民众乘着筏子把文件捞了起来，小心地铺开晾晒。
The complex extended well over a mile along the river and was immaculately landscaped with hedges, lawns and birch trees, and a golf course of graceful swales, sand traps and pools of crystalline water.
官邸的园子沿着河绵延超过一英里（约1.6公里），园中悉心地安放了树篱、草坪和桦树，还有一个装点着美丽的洼地、沙坑和清澈池塘的高尔夫球场。
Even as the crowds grew, there was no sign of looting. By evening, a vast traffic jam formed on the highway from the capital, and crowds walked along the road’s shoulder to see the open palace. The grounds filled with Ukrainian citizens, awed by what they saw.
即使人群不断增多，也没有发生劫掠的迹象。到了傍晚，从首都来这里的公路上发生了严重的交通堵塞，人群沿着路肩行走，观看着开放的宫殿。宫殿里的地面上挤满了乌克兰民众，眼前的景象让他们瞠目结舌。
“It’s beautiful here,” said Svetlana Gorbenkova, a realtor, as she walked about. “It’s so peaceful. But why all this for just one person? This was all stolen from us. It’s obvious now how much he stole. Why didn’t he give anything to the people? When he was running for president, one of his slogans was, ‘I will listen to every one of you.’ But he didn’t listen to any of us.”
房地产经纪人斯韦拉娜·格尔宾科娃(Svetlana Gorbenkova)一边四下游逛一边说，“这里真美，很宁静，可是为什么只留给一个人呢？这都是从我们这里偷来的。现在大家都明白他偷了多少。为什么他什么都不愿意拿给人民？他竞选总统时，一个口号是‘我会倾听每个人的声音’。可是他谁的声音都没听。”