HONG KONG — When Ankur Gupta tells people what he does for a living, he often gets surprised looks. Mr. Gupta works in India, but instead of catering to the nation’s youthful consumers with baby food or toys, he looks after a portfolio of retirement homes for Ashiana Housing, a property company.
香港——当安库尔·古普塔(Ankur Gupta)告诉人们他谋生的职业时，对方时常会表现出意外的样子。古普塔在印度工作，但他并不为这个国家年轻的消费者服务，提供婴儿食品或玩具，他为一家房产公司阿希阿纳房屋有限公司(Ashiana Housing)打理养老院。
“Here I am, in one of the youngest societies of the world, selling retirement homes to seniors — no wonder people sometimes think I must be crazy,” Mr. Gupta said.
“我，身在世界上最年轻的社会之一，却向老年人兜售养老院——难怪人们有时会觉得我精神不正常，”古普塔说。
Ashiana Housing’s three retirement homes in India each have badminton courts, jogging tracks and gardens, as well as a meditation hall and temple. Their residents are upper-middle-class Indians — retired businessmen, doctors and army officers. Two more homes already are in the pipeline as Mr. Gupta and his colleagues bet on rising demand from a richer and older India. The median age of the country’s 1.2 billion residents is just under 27 years, a decade younger than in the United States and nearly two decades younger than in Germany.
阿希阿纳公司在印度的三家养老院都设有羽毛球场、跑道和花园，还有一座冥想厅和寺庙。它们的住户都是中上阶层的印度人——退休的商人、医生和军官。古普塔和他的同事们都相信，随着印度人的财富和年龄增加，对养老院的需求会增加，他们的公司已经又在建造两座养老院。这个国家12亿人口的年龄中值还不到27岁，比美国人口的年龄中值低10岁，而比德国的要低将近20岁。
But India, like much of Asia, is aging rapidly, and only slowly waking up to that fact. By 2030, according to United Nations projections, 565 million Asians will be aged 65 years or older — up from about 300 million now. By 2050, that number will soar to 900 million — about one in every six Asians. Those aged 80 or above will account for 4.3 percent of the Asian population, more than three times the number they represent today.
然而，和亚洲的许多地区一样，印度也正在迅速老龄化，而且它才开始慢慢认识到这一现实。据联合国预测，到2030年，65岁和65岁以上的亚洲人将达到5.65亿，而现在为3亿。到2050年，这一数字将飞增到9亿——约为亚洲人口的六分之一。而80岁及以上人口将占亚洲总人口的4.3%，是如今比例的三倍多。
“People haven’t fully realized the speed with which this demographic turn is approaching,” said Frederic Neumann, a co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC in Hong Kong. Asia’s “demographic dividend,” the flood of young workers that helped drive the region’s rapid growth in recent decades, is coming to an end, Mr. Neumann said.
香港汇丰银行(HSBC)亚洲经济研究联合主管弗雷德里克·诺伊曼(Frederic Neumann)说，“人们还没有充分意识到，这一人口结构变化到来的速度之快。”他说亚洲的“人口红利”——也就是凭借大量年轻劳动力推动这一地区近几十年的快速发展的现象——即将终结。
As business and political leaders gather in Davos, Switzerland, much of the conversation about Asia will focus on the immediate challenges facing the region: China’s economic overhaul; the upcoming elections in India, Indonesia and Thailand; Japan’s efforts to ramp up growth; and the impact of the United States Federal Reserve’s moves to dial back its support of the American economy.
当商界、政界领袖齐聚瑞士达沃斯时，许多对亚洲的讨论将集中于该地区即将面临的挑战：中国的经济改革；印度、印度尼西亚和泰国即将到来的大选；日本推动增长的举措；以及美联储(United States Federal Reserve)着手减少其对美国经济的支持。
But it is Asia’s rapid aging that is “perhaps the single biggest economic and social obstacle” confronting its future, said Donghyun Park, a senior economist at the Asian Development Bank in Manila. “Even in younger countries, the share of the elderly is rising — the demographics of the region will change beyond recognition over the next few decades.”
马尼拉亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)高级经济师朴东炫(Donghyun Park)说，但亚洲的迅速老龄化“或许才是最大的经济、社会发展障碍”，影响着它的未来发展。“即便在较年轻的国家，老龄人口的比例也在上升——在今后几十年，这一地区的人口结构将发生翻天覆地的变化。”
Asia’s aging has big implications globally. It ultimately means fewer workers and higher wages, adding to the cost of goods manufactured in Asia. And it could mean less dynamic growth in a region that is increasingly important to the world economy.
亚洲的老龄化趋势会为全球带来巨大影响。这归根结底意味着劳动力减少、工资上涨，由此将增加亚洲商品的生产成本。这也可能意味着，在这个对世界经济日益重要的地区，强劲增长会减少。
Throughout the region, companies, governments and ordinary citizens aim to profit from or prevent the aging trend.
亚洲上下，企业、政府和普通公民都在努力从这一老龄化趋势中获益，或阻止它的出现。
Some of the most headline-grabbing responses have been government-sponsored, like China’s revision of its one-child policy. Others have been enterprising at a micro level, like speed-dating events in Singapore. And some have been more entrepreneurial, like Mr. Gupta’s retirement homes in India.
其中一些引来最多关注的应对举措得到了政府的支持，如中国修改其计划生育政策。其他则从细微处着手，如新加坡的速配活动。还有一些则更具创业精神，如古普塔在印度的养老院。
The challenges of the aging process are nothing new for Japan, where roughly a quarter of the population is 65 or above, far more than in the United States or Europe. For decades, Japan has sought to stem the slide, and the government’s efforts to haul the economy out of its long slumber are largely motivated by the prospect of still more, and rapid, population aging.
对日本来说，老龄化进程所带来的挑战并不是什么新鲜事。在这里，大约有四分之一的人口为65岁和65岁以上，远远高于美国和欧洲的水平。几十年来，日本一直努力抑制这种下滑，而政府正在努力推动经济走出长久以来的沉寂，这种动力从很大程度上来自人口老龄化的前景——日本还将面临更多、更快的老龄化发展。
Japan’s corporate sector has for years sought to reduce its dependence on the country’s shrinking population by expanding abroad. The $10.6 billion bid last week by Suntory, a brewing and distilling company, for the maker of Jim Beam whiskey is just one example of this trend.
多年来，日本的企业界一直在通过扩张海外，来努力减少它对这个国家不断萎缩的人口的依赖。上周，酒业公司三得利(Suntory)欲用106亿美元（约合641亿元人民币）收购占边(Jim Beam)威士忌，就是这种趋势的一个例证。
Others companies have changed their product lineups. Unicharm, which makes diapers for infants, has expanded into incontinence products for the elderly — just one example of how companies are trying to tap into the increased spending power of Asia’s seniors.
其他一些企业则改变了它们的产品内容。生产婴儿尿布的尤妮佳(Unicharm)开始向老年人用的大小便失禁产品扩张。有许多公司在尝试吸收亚洲老年人口日渐增强的购买力，这只是其中一个例子。
Singapore’s efforts to cope with changing demographics include a government agency that promotes boy-meets-girl events, offers advice on dating, and works with dating agencies to try to raise the country’s fertility rate, which, at just 1.2 births per woman, is among the lowest in the world. Last week, the agency promoted a lunch talk on “How Simple Gestures Can Cause The Opposite Sex To Reject You!” Next month, there is a back-to-school-themed “dating fest” featuring two local celebrities.
新加坡也推出了种种应对人口结构变化的举措，其中包括由一家政府机构出面推广男女见面的活动、为约会提供建议，还与婚介机构合作来提高这个国家的生育率。新加坡的生育率仅为1.2，即每位妇女平均生育1.2个小孩，位于世界最低的行列。上周，该机构推出午餐会，议题是“为什么一些简单的举动会导致异性的拒绝！”下个月将会有一场以回归校园为主题的“约会节”，会有两位本地名人参加。
Hong Kong, which is in the midst of reviewing its population policy, is mulling measures like raising the retirement age for civil servants, ways to encourage more women to join the work force and, on a more offbeat note, possible subsidies for fertility treatment.
正在审议人口政策的香港也考虑采取举措，如提高公务员的退休年龄、采取措施鼓励更多妇女就业，以及颇不寻常地提出可能补贴不孕不育症的治疗。
China, with 1.3 billion inhabitants and an economy that dominates the region, presents some of the greatest population challenges — and opportunities.
中国有13亿人口和在本地区占主导地位的经济，它正面临着一些最艰巨的人口挑战，当然也是机遇。
Roughly 9 percent of Chinese, well over 110 million people, are now aged 65 or older. That percentage is only slightly below that in the United States. Moreover, it will rise to more than 16 percent by the end of the next decade, according to United Nations projections, meaning that by then China’s population will be roughly as old as Europe’s is now.
大约有9%的中国人——超过1.1亿人——在65岁及以上。这一比例仅略低于美国。并且据联合国预测，到下一个10年的后期，这一比例将跃升至16%以上。这意味着，到那时中国的人口老龄化程度会和现在的欧洲差不多。
The authorities have taken note, and recently announced a relaxation of the decades-old one-child policy that was widely seen to have contributed to the demographic woes that China now faces. The tweak will allow couples to have two children if either parent was a single child, and could lead to hundreds of thousands of additional births a year. But, analysts say, it is unlikely to change China’s demographic profile any time soon, not least because many of those who are eligible may stick with one child, after all, in a bid to focus their financial resources.
当局已注意到这些挑战，近来宣布放松其执行了几十年的计划生育政策。人们广泛认为，这一政策从一定程度上造就了中国如今面临的人口问题。这一改变将允许任意一方为独生子女的夫妻生育两个孩子，每年增加数十万人口的出生。但分析人士表示，这不太可能很快改变中国的人口状况，从一定程度上是因为许多有资格生二胎的夫妻为了将更多精力放在增加经济收入上，可能还是会只要一个孩子。
“Demographics are like natural forces: You can ease the pain, but you cannot not prevent them altogether,” said Mr. Neumann, the HSBC economist.
“人口结构就好像是自然因素：你可以减少痛苦，但你不能完全阻止它们的出现，”汇丰银行经济师诺伊曼说道。