BANGKOK — Not long after landing in New Delhi for a two-month motorcycle trip across India, I was given some specific advice.
曼谷——为了在印度各地进行一次为时两个月的摩托车旅行，我来到了新德里。落地后不久，就有人给了我一些具体的建议。
An Indian man told me that to avoid extortion and bribe-seeking police officers, I should never stop for anyone in  uniform or anyone apparently in distress. And barrel through anything that looks like a toll booth, he said.
一名印度男子告诉我要避开勒索和要贿赂的警察，而且我万万不能因为看到任何身着制服或看上去很痛苦的人而停下。他还说，任何看起来像收费亭的地方都得加速冲过去。
That was in 1993. I can still picture men in uniform frantically waving their hands as I motored past. That journey through India, which included dodging trucks that seemed intent on running me off the road and steering around grisly accidents, was a lesson in survival and the start of two decades as a reporter, mostly in Asia with the International Herald Tribune.
那是1993年。我至今还记得当我骑摩托车经过时，身着制服的男子疯狂挥舞着双手的情景。在那次穿越印度的旅行中，我要避让似乎有意想把我挤出公路的卡车，从恐怖的事故现场穿行而过，那是一堂生存课，也是我二十年记者生涯的开始。在当记者期间，我主要待在亚洲，为《国际先驱论坛报》(International Herald Tribune)工作。
I’m not sure the man’s suggestion would fly in today’s India. But the thought of it reminds me of all the advice I have received and all the ways I have adapted to reporting among the various peoples and places that we hopelessly try to lump together as Asia.
我不确定那个人的建议在如今的印度是否还适用。但想到这件事，促使我回忆起许多类似的建议，以及在报道不同民族和地方时所适应的一些东西，我们徒劳地将这些地方混为一谈，统称为亚洲。
The past two decades have been marked by the enormous leaps in prosperity that some call the Asian miracle. But during the thousands of hours I have listened to stories from farmers, factory workers and insurgents, I have  been struck by their familiarity with loss, preoccupation with survival and intimacy with death.
过去二十年，亚洲出现了极大的繁荣进步，有人把这种繁荣称作亚洲奇迹。但在聆听农民、工厂工人和叛乱者诉说的那几千个小时的故事时，令我惊叹的却是他们对失去的习以为常，他们对生存的专注，以及距离死亡的咫尺之遥。
In Myanmar in May 2008, I trolled the muddy canals of the Irrawaddy delta, counting bodies floating down to the  sea, the evidence of a storm of biblical proportions that swept away more than 130,000 people.
2008年5月在缅甸，我在伊洛瓦底江三角洲泥泞的运河边走着，数着一直往下飘向大海的遇难者遗体，那是一场冲走了超过13万人的特大暴风雨的证据。
In Laos in 2007, I trekked into the jungle to find former mercenaries for the Central Intelligence Agency who were terrified of the vengeful Lao military hunting them down. It had been decades since the American military advisers had left, yet the legacy of the Vietnam War lived on.
2007年在老挝，我在热带丛林里艰难跋涉，寻找曾为中情局(Central Intelligence Agency)服务的前雇佣兵。心存报复的老挝军队正在追杀他们，他们很害怕。当时，美国的军队顾问已经离开几十年了，但越战的影响依然还在。
And there were personal brushes with danger. On the Indonesian island of Buru  in 2000, at a time of brutal sectarian violence, a villager with a deranged smile  and a machete in his hand threatened to kill me if I was a Protestant Christian. My interpreter lied and said I was Catholic. We quickly departed.
还有几次是我个人遇到危险。2000年，在印度尼西亚的布鲁岛，一个村民脸上挂着疯子般的微笑，手里握着一把大砍刀，威胁说如果我是新教徒，就要杀了我。我的翻译撒谎说我是天主教徒。我们很快便离开了那里。
In Thailand in 2010, a renegade general was assassinated while I was interviewing him.
2010年，在泰国，一名叛变的将领在接受我的采访时遇刺身亡。
The stories that I covered often turned on issues of life and death. Even though I lived among the towering glass  edifices of modern Southeast Asian cities, the stakes were somehow higher here than in the West. Luxury and grinding poverty were neighbors; dangerous roads, political violence and deadly business disputes rendered life more precarious. And yet I marveled at the work  ethic, the hospitality, the graciousness of  the people I met. These were truly, as one American author so aptly termed it,  lands of charm and cruelty.
我采写的故事往往事关生死。尽管我生活在东南亚现代城市的玻璃高楼里，但这里的风险比西方高。奢华与极端贫困比邻；危险的公路、政治暴力和激烈的商业争端让生命变得更岌岌可危。但我遇见的人的职业道德、热情好客和友善和蔼却让我惊叹不已。这里的确如一位美国作家所准确形容的那样，是一片魅力与残忍并存的土地。
I often think about the contrasts between reporting here and in the West.
我常常思考在这里和在西方进行报道的差异。
In my dealings with Western officials  and diplomats, especially Americans, I have been baffled by the mind-bending  classifications of conversations with reporters: “background,” “deep background,” “on the record,” “attributed to a Western diplomat.”
在和西方官员、外交官尤其是美国人打交道时，与记者的对话的类别让我困惑不已。诸如“背景”、“深度背景”、“公开表示’、“来自一名西方外交官之口”。
By contrast, my conversations in Southeast Asia —  with everyone from executives to police officers and government ministers — have often been freewheeling.
相比之下，我在东南亚采访时进行的对话往往都很随意，采访对象涉及从企业高管到警察再到政府要员的各色人群。
Politicians in Asia do lie and companies do spin. But there are also people like Sitthichai Pookaiyaudom.
亚洲的政界人士的确会撒谎，亚洲的企业也的确会编故事。但也有像西提查伊·普卡依乌东(Sitthichai Pookaiyaudom)这样的人。
In 2007, when he was minister of telecommunications of Thailand, he told me in an interview that he didn’t care much  for the Internet (the very heart of his portfolio as minister), that he believed the international patent system should be abolished and that he disagreed with the Thai government’s policy of not allowing foreigners to own land.
2007年，时任泰国信息和通信技术部长的他在一次采访中告诉我，他不怎么关注互联网（作为信息和通信技术部长，这是他的核心职责），而且他相信，国际专利制度应该被废除。他还说自己不同意泰国政府不允许外国人拥有土地的政策。
He had recently been appointed minister and his public relations team, sitting a few feet away, was sweating. Mr.  Sitthichai is a free thinker who had had a distinguished academic career and was an inventor in his spare time, even creating the meter for Bangkok taxis. But in the jargon of public relations, he was off message. He may not have been  perfect for the job, but his candor was refreshing.
当时，他刚被任命为部长。他的公关团队坐在几英尺开外的地方，满头大汗。西提查伊是一个思想上很自由的人，有着出色的学院背景，工作之余还是一个发明家，甚至为曼谷的出租车发明了计价器。但用公关的行话来说，他偏离了官方路线。他或许不是最适合这份工作的人选，但他的坦率令人耳目一新。
At other times, unguarded opinions have confounded me.
在其他时候，毫无防备的观点让我大惑不解。
A few months ago I met Nhem En, who as a young man had been an official  photographer of the Khmer Rouge during their genocidal reign in Cambodia in the 1970s. He took the terrifying images of prisoners before they were executed at the S-21 prison outside Phnom Penh, a place that tourist guides now call the Killing Fields.
几个月前，我遇到了奈恩(Nhem En)。上世纪70年代，柬埔寨统治者红色高棉(Khmer Rouge)实施种族屠杀时，年轻的奈恩是红色高棉的官方指定摄影师。他曾在金边城外的S-21监狱拍下过囚犯被处决前的恐怖画面。如今，这个地方被导游们称作“杀戮场”。
Mr. Nhem En, who is in his mid-50s, was straightforward about his plans to profit from the Khmer Rouge years. He said he was building a “resort” in the  northern Cambodian town of Anlong Veng that would include the “Museum of the genocidal cameras” — his  collection of the Rollei, Nikon, and Yashica  cameras, among others, that he says he used to photograph the doomed prisoners. Visitors to the resort, which in his  description sounded more like a hotel with a swimming pool, would also be able to see the house where Ta Mok, a  senior Khmer Rouge commander, lived and died, he said.
奈恩现在已经50多岁，他对于自己利用红色高棉年代赚钱的计划直言不讳。他说，他正在柬埔寨北部的安隆汶镇建立一个度假区，度假区将包括“种族屠杀相机博物馆”——展示他收藏的禄莱(Rollei)、尼康(Nikon)和雅西卡(Yashica)以及其他相机。他说，他曾经用这些相机拍摄临死的囚犯。他说，度假区的游客还会看到红色高棉高级指挥官塔莫(Ta Mok)去世时居住的房子。在他的描述中，这个度假区听起来更像是一个配有游泳池的酒店。
Mr. Nhem En was orphaned at age 2 and was a teenager when he photographed the prisoners. We will probably never fully know the mix of coercion and  revolutionary zeal that motivated him and other Khmer Rouge lieutenants. But during our  interview, he seemed more proud of the photos he had taken than sorry for the fate of his subjects. I asked whether he was haunted by his past.
奈恩两岁时成为孤儿，拍摄这些囚犯的时候，他还是一个少年。我们可能永远无法完全了解，激发着他和其他红色高棉军官的是怎样一种掺杂着被迫和革命热情的东西。但在我们的采访中，他似乎更多地为自己拍摄的照片而骄傲，而不是为照片中人物的命运感到惋惜。我问他，过去的记忆有没有让他寝食难安。
“Of course the past always meets the present,” he said. “But we have to be  flexible.”
“过去和现在当然常常交织在一起，”他说，“但是我们必须想开一点。”
I met Nhem En at his office in Anlong Veng, but I asked if we could also visit  his home. Without hesitation, he took  me to a massage parlor down the street where the masseuses’ tight outfits and  high heels suggested that their job was  more than just soothing aching muscles. His bedroom was a few feet away from the massage room.
我与奈恩在他位于安隆汶奈恩的办公室见了面，但我问他能否到他家去看看。他毫不犹豫地带我走进了这条街上的一家按摩院，那里的按摩师穿着紧身服装和高跟鞋，表明她们的工作不只是抚慰疼痛的肌肉。他的卧室离这个按摩的房间仅有几英尺的距离。
As I was talking with him — discussing the horrors of the Khmer Rouge years in a massage parlor — I wished  that I could have summoned Dostoyevsky or Victor Hugo, someone more qualified than myself to explain  the absurdity of the human condition.
在与他聊天——在一个按摩院讨论红色高棉年代的恐怖——的时候，我多么希望我可以让陀思妥耶夫斯基或者维克多·雨果显灵，因为他们比我更有资格解释人的境遇为何会如此荒诞。
There is candor in Southeast Asia and there is  subtlety. I have learned that  gathering information in the region often requires more discernment than in straight-talking Western societies.
东南亚人是既坦率又含蓄的。我发现，与直来直去的西方社会相比，在这个地方获取信息通常需要更强的洞察力。
The aggressive questioning that might be effective in New York is generally pointless for a reporter in Asia, where information flows more easily without confrontation.
咄咄逼人的提问方式在纽约可能很有效，但对于在亚洲的记者基本上没用，在亚洲，避免正面交锋才能让信息沟通更容易。
I have learned to look more deeply for signals in people’s faces and to analyze carefully smiles or laughs. As my colleague Seth Mydans once wrote, a smile in Asia can convey “happiness or sadness, regret or anticipation, triumph or embarrassment, warmth or wickedness.”
我已经学会在人们的面部表情中寻找更深层次的信号，还要仔细分析微笑或大笑的含义。正如我的同事塞思·迈登斯(Seth Mydans)曾经写道，在亚洲，微笑可能代表快乐或者悲伤，懊悔或者期待，得意或者尴尬，温情或者恶意。
Over the years, I have been amused by newcomers to Asia struggling to comprehend their new environment.
观察初来亚洲的人对他们所处的新环境如何一头雾水，是我多年来的一项消遣。
I remember the befuddled look on the face of an American drug enforcement officer who had recently raided a drug den with colleagues from Thailand. The Thai   officers, armed with assault weapons, had removed their shoes before rushing into the house to capture the suspects.
我还记得一名美国禁毒执法官员脸上的迷惑神情。他最近与泰国的同事查抄了一个贩毒窝点，在冲进房间抓捕嫌犯之前，携带着攻击性武器的泰国执法人员先脱掉了鞋子。
Memo to young reporters in Asia: Avoid shoes with laces, which are too much of a hassle during a busy day of interviews.
给驻亚洲的年轻记者提个醒：别穿系带的鞋子，在一整天忙碌采访中，这可是个大麻烦。
But of all the advice and lessons I have received during my two decades  here, surely the best came from my  wife, who is also a reporter, a fellow New Yorker and my partner through this Asian journey.
但在我在这里20年来得到的建议和教训之中，最好的建议来自我的妻子，她也是一名记者，也是纽约人，我亚洲之行的同伴。
When in 2010 the sniper shot the renegade Thai general, Khattiya Sawatdiphol, and he collapsed at my feet, my first instinct was to put on my ballistic helmet, which I was holding in my hand.  (A friend in the U.S. military later  darkly joked that I should have read the instruction manual: Helmets work best when worn on your head.)
2010年，一名狙击手击中了泰国叛变将领卡迪亚·萨瓦滴蓬(Khattiya Sawatdiphol)，当他在我面前倒下的时候，我的第一反应是，戴上手中的防弹头盔。（美国军方的一个朋友后来跟我开了个黑色玩笑，说我应该阅读一下使用说明：头盔戴在头上的时候效果最好。）
My second instinct was to write up the story, an important development in the political crisis that was gripping Thailand at the time.
我的第二个本能反应是记录下这个事件，这在当时是影响泰国局势的一场政治危机的重要进展。
I sent my dispatch and minutes later my wife saw the news of the shooting on nytimes.com.
我发出了报道，几分钟后，我的妻子在《纽约时报》的网站上看到了这次袭击事件的消息。
“Next time,” she said, “you should probably tell your wife first.”
“下一次，”她说，“你可能应该先告诉你的妻子。”