WASHINGTON — The United States’ predominance in science and technology is fading, a report released this month by the National Science Board warns.
华盛顿——美国国家科学委员会(National Science Board)本月公布的报告发出警告，美国在科技领域的优势地位正遭到削弱。
The report underscores what a powerhouse the United States remains in knowledge- and technology-intensive industries, including high-tech manufacturing, energy and pharmaceuticals.
报告强调，在知识密集型与技术密集型领域，例如高科技制造业、能源业与制药业，美国依然强势。
All in all, those industries account for about 40 percent of American economic output, more than in any other developed country, it finds.
文中得出结论，此类行业总体占到美国经济总产出的40%左右，领先于所有其他发达国家。
But with the rise of increasingly competitive emerging economies, the report suggests, underinvestment in research and development — in part because of federal cutbacks — might translate into a less dominant, less productive American economy in the future.
不过，报告认为，由于竞争力日益增强的新兴经济体的崛起，美国研发投入的不足，有可能会使其未来的经济生产力下降、优势衰减。而这种投入不足，部分源于联邦经费的缩减。
The world is undergoing a “dramatic shift in the global scientific landscape,” said Dan E. Arvizu, the chief executive of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory and the chairman of the National Science Board.
国家科学委员会主席、国家可再生能源实验室(National Renewable Energy Laboratory)执行主任丹·E·阿尔维祖(Dan E. Arvizu)表示，世界正在经历“全球科学版图的剧变”。
“Emerging economies understand the role science and innovation play in the global marketplace and in economic competitiveness and have increasingly placed a priority on building their capacity in science and technology,” he said.
“新兴经济体深知科学与创新在全球市场及经济竞争力中起到的作用。它们已越来越多地把加强科技方面的能力建设摆到了优先的位置，”他说。
The biennial report from the National Science Board — which governs the federally funded National Science Foundation and advises the White House and Congress — shows the heady rise of newly industrializing nations in Asia more than it does stagnation or decline in the United States.
国家科学委员会负责管理联邦政府资助的国家科学基金(National Science Foundation)，并向白宫和国会提供咨询意见。本次报告是该委员会每两年发布一次的系列中最新的一期，其中更多地展示了亚洲新兴工业化国家的强势崛起，在美国的停滞与退步上着墨相对不多。
The United States remains the single biggest investor in research and development, spending about $429 billion a year, compared to $208 billion for China and $147 billion for Japan.
美国仍然是在研发领域投入最多的单一经济体，年开支达4290亿美元（约合2.6万亿元人民币）左右。相比之下，中国和日本的数据分别为2080亿美元和1470亿美元。
But the share of annual global research spending in the United States has declined sharply, to 30 percent in 2011 from 37 percent a decade before. For Europe, the decline was to 22 percent from 26 percent.
不过，美国在年度全球研究开支中的占比大幅下滑，从10年前的37%降至了2011年的30%。至于欧洲，则是从当时的26%跌至22%。
At the same time, the share of research done by Asian countries grew to 34 percent from 25 percent, with China’s share alone growing to 15 percent from 2 percent in 2000.
与此同时，亚洲国家研究投入的占比从25%升至34%，单是中国，就从2000年的2%跃升至15%。
As a result, the Asian economies now perform a larger share of global research and development than the United States does. China carries out about as much high-tech manufacturing as the United States does, the report found.
因此，亚洲经济体如今在全球研发中的占比超越了美国。报告认为，中国在高科技制造领域的制造活动堪比美国。
But the report also highlights some important market sectors where the United States appears to be falling behind.
文中还强调，在部分重要的市场部门里，美国看来正趋于落后。
For instance, emerging economies invested about $100 billion in clean energy in 2012, with China alone investing more than $60 billion. The United States spent only $29 billion.
比方说，2012年，新兴经济体向清洁能源领域投入了约1000亿美元，单是中国的投资就超过了600亿美元。美国的投入仅为290亿美元。
More worryingly, the report finds that the United States might be lagging in the research and development spending that scientists say is the most important fuel for future innovation.
更令人担忧的是，报告发现，美国在研发方面的开支或许也在掉队，而科学家们认为，这是未来创新最重要的驱动因素。
Moreover, many countries spend larger and faster-growing proportions of their economic output on research.
而且，许多国家正将经济产出中更大的比例用于研究，这方面的增长也更快。
“The United States remains the world’s leader in science and technology,” said Ray M. Bowen of the National Science Board. “But there are numerous indicators showing how rapidly the world is changing and how other nations are challenging our predominance. As other countries focus on increasing their innovation capacities, we can ill afford to stand still.”
“美国仍然在科技领域保持了全球第一的位置，”国家科学委员会的雷·M·鲍恩(Ray M. Bowen)说。“可是，有不少指标显示，世界正在快速变化，别的国家正在挑战我们的领先地位。随着其他国家将注意力放在加强创新能力上，我们不能停滞不前。”
The report found that United States research took a hit from the recession, with businesses cutting back sharply during the downturn, though the federal government’s stimulus did buffer the effects.
报告发现，美国的研究界因经济衰退受损。经济低迷时期，企业大幅削减研发开支，尽管联邦政府的刺激计划的确起到了缓解作用。
But it did not analyze the effects of the sharp, long-term budget cuts known as “sequestration.” Congress eased some of those budget cuts in a recent bipartisan deal.
不过，文中并未分析名为“自动减支”的长期大幅预算削减带来的影响。在近期获得两党支持的协议中，国会放松了其中一部分的预算削减。
But uncertainty and concern about cutbacks remain for the National Institutes of Health and other major research facilities. That has led to widespread worries about brain drain from industries that rely heavily on federal funding, especially biomedical research.
国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)等大型研究机构仍需面对减支方面的不确定性与担忧。这使得人们普遍担心，严重依赖联邦资助的行业将面临人才流失，尤其是在生物医药研发领域。
In a recent survey organized by the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 85 percent of responding scientists said that reduced federal investment “has allowed our global competitors to catch up to and even pass the U.S. in scientific research.”
美国生物化学与分子生物学学会(American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology)最近组织的调查显示，作出回复的科学家中，85%表示，联邦投入的减少“已使得全球竞争者能够在科研方面赶上乃至超越美国”。
About one in five said they were considering leaving the country for the benefit of their careers.
约五分之一的人宣称，他们正考虑为了更好的学术生涯而离开美国。
The new spending deal “falls short of restoring funding for lifesaving National Institutes of Health biomedical research,” said Carrie D. Wolinetz, the head of United for Medical Research, an advocacy group.
倡导团体医学研究联合会(United for Medical Research)的会长卡丽·D·沃利内茨(Carrie D. Wolinetz)认为，国会的新预算协议“未能恢复拨给用来挽救生命的国立卫生研究院生物医药研究的经费”。
The package, she said, “won’t adequately reverse the damage done by last year’s budget sequester and ensure the nation’s biomedical research enterprise makes continued progress in lifesaving research and development.”
她表示，该协议“既不能很好地扭转去年的自动减支带来的损失，也不能确保美国的生物医药研发企业在生死攸关的研发上取得持续进步。”