LONDON — Even as China’s economy begins to cool, its hunger for energy is still climbing.
伦敦——尽管中国经济开始降温，但它对能源的需求仍在节节攀升。
So also is its capacity to generate power from multiple sources, ranging from coal and nuclear to wind, solar and hydroelectric.
从燃煤、核能，到风能、太阳能和水力发电，中国的总发电能力同样也在不断增长。
Those trends look similar across Asia, where soaring energy needs are outpacing the expansion of climate-friendly renewable power.
整个亚洲似乎都呈现这样的趋势：飙升的能源需求超过了气候友好型可再生能源的增长。
More than $250 billion a year is expected to be poured into the construction of renewable energy production in Asia, representing two-thirds of the region’s total power investment, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, an analysis and consulting firm. By 2030, the firm projects that carbon-free sources will provide a third of the region’s electricity, with solar the biggest contributor.
分析和咨询公司彭博新能源财经(BloombergNew Energy Finance)的报告认为，亚洲每年投入到可再生能源生产上的资金总计将逾2500亿美元（约合1.5万亿元人民币），占该区域电力建设投资的三分之二。该公司还预测，到2030年，亚洲地区的电力将有三分之一来自无碳能源，其中占比最大的是太阳能。
Yet the use of fossil fuels like coal and oil is growing too, meaning Asia’s emissions of climate-warming gases are also on an upward trend.
然而，煤和石油等化石燃料的消耗量也在增长。这意味着，温室气体排放量亦呈上升趋势。
“It is a story about growth,” said Justin Wu, lead Asia analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Asia, he said, “is going to add a lot more power of all kinds.”
“这事和增长有关，”彭博新能源财经的亚太区研究主管吴敬(Justin Wu)表示，亚洲“将新增大量电能，无论发电方式如何。”
China is the region’s energy behemoth, accounting for almost half of global coal use while also leading the world in its installation of solar, wind and other renewable technologies.
中国是该地区的能源巨头，占全球煤炭总使用量的近一半，同时也是采用太阳能和风能等可再生能源技术的装机容量方面的全球领军者。
Its political leaders take clean energy seriously, and they are driving a huge expansion, with China’s wind turbines alone expected to produce nearly two and a half times the entire power generating capacity of Britain by 2020, said Xin Li, a fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies.
中国的政治领导人对清洁能源相当重视，他们正在推动这一领域的大幅扩张。牛津能源研究所(Oxford Institute for Energy Studies)的研究员李鑫表示，预计到2020年，单是中国的风力发电机组的发电量，就相当于英国总体发电能力的近两倍半。
That commitment was reflected in the landmark climate deal announced during President Obama’s visit this month. President Xi Jinping promised China would get 20 percent of its energy from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030, and said its carbon emissions would peak by that year. Experts say China was probably on track toward those goals anyway, but making them explicit is significant, and may help jolt international negotiations.
这种投入体现在了奥巴马总统本月访华期间公布的一份具有里程碑意义的气候协议中。中国国家主席习近平承诺，到2030年，中国20%的能源将来自非化石燃料，其碳排放量也将在这一年之后出现下降。专家们表示，中国很可能本来就在朝着这些目标迈进，但公开给出承诺的意义颇为重大，而且有可能为国际谈判提供助力。
Last year, for the first time, the amount of newly completed zero-carbon-emission energy sources in China exceeded the new coal capacity that was built, said Michal Meidan, an associate fellow at Chatham House, an international affairs think tank in London.
皇家国际事务研究所(Chatham House)的副研究员米夏尔·迈丹(Michal Meidan)称，去年，中国新建成的零碳排放能源产能，首次超过了新建的燃煤发电产能。该研究所位于伦敦，是一家国际事务方面的智库。
Mr. Wu, of Bloomberg New Energy, said, “I’ve heard people say a new coal plant gets built every week” in China. “That’s probably still true. But for every coal plant that’s built, a lot more solar and wind are built as well, and a lot of old coal plants are probably shutting down, the less efficient ones.”
彭博新能源的吴敬说，“我听说，中国每周都有一座新的燃煤电厂建成。这很可能还是事实，但每次有燃煤电厂建成，就会有更多的太阳能和风能电厂建成，而且很多低效率的老旧燃煤电厂很可能也会关停。”
Yet, even if it is gradually declining as a percentage of the energy mix, coal use in China remains huge, and annual usage is likely to keep growing for two decades, said Linda Doman, a senior international energy analyst at the United States Energy Information Administration. The agency’s projections do not take the U.S.-China announcement into account, but indicated in any case that China’s steepest coal and carbon increases would come before 2030.
然而，美国能源情报署(United States Energy Information Administration)的资深国际能源分析师琳达·多曼(Linda Doman)表示，即使煤炭在中国能源结构中的占比正逐渐下降，它的使用规模仍然非常庞大，而且年消耗量可能还会持续增长20年。该机构的预测没有考虑中美新近宣布的协议，但也指出，不管是哪种情景，中国的煤炭和碳排放最大幅度的增长，将在2030年之前出现。
Coal accounted for 69 percent of China’s energy use in 2010. That share is projected to fall to 55 percent in 2040, but it is still expected to be five times bigger than the total for renewable energy, Ms. Doman said. She noted, though, that the agency’s projections do not include small-scale renewable sources unconnected to the grid, a category that is significant in some places.
2010年，煤炭占了中国的能源消耗量的69%。多曼说，这一比例预计将在2040年下降到55%，但仍会是可再生能源总量的五倍。不过她指出，情报署的预测不包括未连接到电网的小规模可再生能源设施，而此类设施在一些地方不容小觑。
“We’re still talking about 800 million tons of coal; that’s a lot of coal capacity,” said Ms. Meidan, of Chatham House. “All over the world, people have invested in mines, assuming that China will continue to consume coal.”
“我们谈论的规模仍有约8亿吨煤炭；这是非常大的煤电产能，”皇家国际事务研究所的迈丹说。“在世界各地，人们纷纷投资矿山，因为他们认为中国将继续消耗大量煤炭。”
Oil use is also increasing, by about 2.5 percent a year, Ms. Doman said.
石油的使用量也在日益攀升，每年增幅为2.5%，多曼说。
The cooling of the Chinese economy, from double to single digit growth, and a shift in consumption away from energy-intensive sectors like infrastructure and manufacturing for exports, have slowed the growth of its hunger for coal. Beijing worries, too, about the security of its energy supplies. While China is a big coal producer, it still imports a great deal. The same is true in gas and oil.
由于中国经济的增长率从两位数降温到个位数，以及从基础设施和制造业出口等能源密集型行业朝其他行业转向，它对煤炭的需求增长有所减缓。而且，北京对能源供应的安全感到担心。虽然中国是煤炭生产大国，但它仍然在大量进口。石油和天然气方面也是如此。
These and other factors are driving China’s renewables push. But China’s push for more renewable energy has not always been smooth.
这和其他因素一起，推动着中国可再生能源的发展。但是，中国向更多这类能源迈进的道路并非总是一帆风顺。
Politicians have sometimes responded to pollution worries by moving sooty coal-fired plants away from big cities rather than replacing them with cleaner energy. Poor planning and inadequate transmission lines, meanwhile, have left many large wind and solar farms without the connections necessary to send the energy they generate to the places where it is most needed.
当民众表达对污染的担忧时，政府有时候会加以回应，但办法是把排放浓烟的燃煤电厂搬迁到远离大城市的地方，而不是用清洁能源代替它们。同时，由于规划不善和输电线路不合要求，很多大型风能和太阳能发电厂无法把电输送到最需要的地方去。
“I am not really sure if these different plans are coordinated or consistent or even coherent,” and a lot of power ends up unused, Mr. Li said.
“我不敢说这些不同的电力规划经过了协调，前后一致，或者有什么条理性，”而且很多电能白白浪费，李鑫说。
Officials are addressing the issue, and the amount of wasted power has begun to decline, Mr. Li said. But, “I still haven’t seen anything like the European countries are doing, making some projections of which area needs how much electricity and what sort of links can be built between regions,” he said.
李鑫表示，官方正在应对这一问题，浪费的电量也已经开始减少。但是，“我还没有看到中国像欧洲国家那样，对哪个区域需要多少电进行预估，然后考虑各区域之间可以修建什么样的输电网，”他说。
In India, energy is high on the agenda of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose government hopes to improve the country’s patchy provision of electricity and expand access for the 300 million people who lack power. That is likely to cost $750 billion in the coming decade, Mr. Wu said. Coal provides the overwhelming majority of India’s energy.
在印度，总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)非常关注能源问题。他领导的政府希望能改善印度供电不稳定的状况，并为当下无电可用的3亿人扩展用电途径。吴敬说，这很可能需要印度在未来10年花费7500亿美元。印度的绝大多数能源目前来自煤炭。
Mr. Modi campaigned in part on his track record of overhauling the electricity sector in Gujarat State, and pushing a big expansion of solar power. He has begun opening coal mining to private firms, but experts say other plans remain unclear.
竞选过程中，莫迪的部分筹码就是他在整改古吉拉特邦电力部门方面取得的成就，以及为推动太阳能的大幅增长所做的努力。他已开始向私营企业开放煤矿开采权，但专家表示，其他一些计划仍不明朗。
One thing that is clear, though, is that inadequate infrastructure is a serious obstacle to any improvement in energy supply, said Vandana Hari, editorial director for Asia at Platts, the energy analysis firm.
不过，能源分析公司普氏(Platts)的亚洲报告部门的主管凡丹娜·哈里(Vandana Hari)表示，有一件事情很明确：基础设施的欠缺给改善能源供给造成了严重障碍。
Problems “range from poor port facilities to poor inland transportation, so even if coal ends up at a port, it takes a long time, goes through very inefficient systems to be transported all the way to where it is to be consumed,” Ms. Hari said. The same is true for natural gas, she added. “India could be consuming much more gas, but it simply doesn’t have a good network of gas pipelines.”
这里存在“港口设施糟糕、内陆运输薄弱等各种问题，所以即便煤炭到了港口，也需要很长时间才能被效率极低的系统运输到消费它们的地方”，哈里说。她还表示，对于天然气而言也是一样的。“印度有可能会消耗更多天然气，但是它完全缺乏一个好的管道网络。”
Japan, meanwhile, is struggling with different problems. Before the 2011 disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, it relied on nuclear for a quarter of its electricity. But safety worries have closed all its atomic plants, and as a result, Japan has ramped up its use of coal and natural gas. Even if old nuclear plants are reopened, “they’re never going to go back to the level of nuclear they had before,” Mr. Wu said.
与此同时，日本正在另外一类的问题上苦苦挣扎。在2011年福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)的事故发生前，它四分之一的电力来自核能。但是出于安全考虑，日本在事故后关闭了所有的原子能发电厂，因而增加了煤炭和天然气的消耗量。吴敬表示，即使重启旧核电站，“他们也无法回到曾经的核能水平。”
In Southeast Asia, energy demand is increasing, but the construction of renewable sources is slower than in China.
在东南亚地区，能源需求正在不断增加，但是可再生能源的相关建设却比中国要慢。