The students radiating joy and excitement, the proud parents applauding, the speeches and the awards. It could have been any student fashion show anywhere across the world.
学生们脸上洋溢着欢乐和兴奋，充满骄傲的父母们在鼓掌，还有各种讲话和奖项。世界各地的学生时装秀差不多都是这个样子。
The profiles of these fledgling designers were made clear in the program — born/raised in Beijing; born/raised in Seoul, South Korea; in Toyota City, Japan; in Taipei, Taiwan; Bangkok; Chongqing, China; Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam — and so on for 14 of the 19 students on this year’s graduate runway.
这些羽翼未丰的设计师们的简介在说明材料上交代得很清楚：在北京出生/长大；在韩国首尔出生/长大；日本丰田市；台湾台北市；曼谷；中国重庆市；越南胡志明市——参加今年毕业竞赛的19名学生中有14名来自亚洲。
Where was this school? The very last student gave out the message: born/raised San Francisco.
这所学校又在哪里呢？最后一名学生的简介透露了这个信息：在旧金山出生/长大。
The student body at the Academy of Art University, founded in 1929, is representative of students in art and design colleges across the Western world. Whether it is Parsons in New York or Central Saint Martins in London, students of Asian origin fill the classes, either because they are supersmart or because their parents are prepared to pay hefty fees.
1929年成立的旧金山艺术大学(Academy of Art University)的学生情况在西方国家很多艺术设计学院中很具代表性。不管是纽约的帕森斯学院(Parsons)还是伦敦的中央圣马丁学院(Central Saint Martins)，都有很多来自亚洲的学生，因为他们特别聪明，或者因为他们的父母愿意支付高昂的学费。
If neither is true, students across Asia now can register for virtual classes on the Internet.
如果两个条件都不符合，亚洲各地的学生们现在还可以注册网络虚拟课堂。
So the great fashion question for Asia in the 21st century is this: Can smart young designers from Beijing to Singapore make the Far East a source of creativity, rather than a consumer of high fashion?
那么，关于21世纪亚洲时装的一个重大问题是：从北京到新加坡的聪明、年轻的设计师们能否将远东变成创意来源地，而不仅是高级时装消费地？
“We are proud to be educating the next generation of artists and creators, many of whom will be involved in the business and design of luxury goods,” says Elisa Stephens, the university’s president, who calls San Francisco “the most innovative city on the Pacific Rim.”
“能为下一代艺术家和创意人员提供教育，我们感到十分骄傲，他们中的很多人将参与奢侈品生意和设计，”旧金山艺术大学的校长埃莉莎·斯蒂芬斯(Elisa Stephens)说。她称旧金山是“太平洋沿岸最有创新性的城市”。
The academy welcomes Asian students. Out of its total enrollment of 16,153 students, including those connected digitally, 4,138, almost 25 percent, are from Asia. Out of 4,000-plus young talents, at least 50 might be expected to become movers and shakers in the world of Asian design, drawing in Southeast Asian countries like Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore or Thailand.
该学院欢迎亚洲学生。在总共16153名学生中——包括通过网络学习的4138名学生——大约有25%来自亚洲。在这4000多名富有才华的年轻人当中，至少有50名有望成为亚洲设计界有影响力的人物，推动印度尼西亚、马来西亚、新加坡或泰国这些东南亚国家的设计影响力。
But it hasn’t happened yet — despite the fact that many Asian countries are now holding fashion weeks to showcase local talent. So far, Asian-born designers have pierced the market mainly in the United States. The success stories — Phillip Lim and Alexander Wang, for example — are the American-born designers who are building brands in countries where their parents or grandparents might have been farmers or factory workers.
不过这一切暂时还没发生，虽然很多亚洲国家现在都在举办时装周以展示当地的设计天才。到目前为止，美国出生的亚裔设计师主要打开的是美国市场。像林能平(Phillip Lim)和王大仁(Alexander Wang)这样的成功设计师都出生于美国，在父辈们生活过的国家建立品牌——他们的父母或祖父母可能在那里做过农民或工人。
When will the breakthrough come for Asia — when will its designers who are training now make homegrown high fashion?
亚洲什么时候能出现这样的突破？这些正在接受培训的设计师们什么时候能生产自己的高级时装？
Six case histories tell the stories:
以下六个人的经历能告诉我们答案：
Anna Sui
安娜·苏(Anna Sui)
When Anna Sui set up shop on Greene Street in the SoHo district of New York in 1991, she created a dark cavern of antique furniture and colorful clothes. But it was the introduction of her fragrance in 1999 that really started the development of a designer whose witty take on Asian style has gone global.
1991年，安娜·苏在纽约SoHo区的格林街上设立了自己的店铺，它像个阴暗的洞穴，里面放着古董家具和五颜六色的服装。不过，在1999年推出自己的香水之后，她对亚洲风格的精妙呈现才开始走向全球。
Q. You recently went to Singapore, where you were promoting your makeup line, available there since 2000. How did you find Southeast Asia?
问：你最近去新加坡推广你的化妆品系列。你从2000年开始在那里设店。你对东南亚的看法是怎样的？
A. The economies of Kuala Lumpur and Jakarta are booming, and the average age is 28. In 10 years time, the expectation is that Southeast Asia could exceed China’s economy. I’m very interested in Peranakan culture, with its mix of Chinese and Malay influences. I love the unusually colored ceramics I found in the flea market, and at the Peranakan Museum in Singapore.
答：吉隆坡和雅加达的经济在蓬勃发展。那里的平均年龄是28岁。预计十年后东南亚的经济有可能会超过中国。我对那里的土生华人文化特别感兴趣，它融合了华人文化和马来文化。我特别喜欢在那里的跳蚤市场和新加坡土生华人博物馆看到的瓷器，它们的颜色很特别。
Q. Did China have a certain mythology as you were growing up in America, where your family accepted the idea that there were certain areas in U.S. cities where Chinese were not welcomed?
问：对你来说，中国是否有某种神秘感？因为你在美国长大，你的家人也认为在美国城市的某些区域华人曾经不受欢迎。
A. I grew up in the suburbs of Detroit. I do remember there were some places where we weren’t welcome. We were the only Chinese family in our neighborhood. But because of our uniqueness, we actually didn’t experience too much discrimination.
答：我在底特律郊区长大。我的确记得有些地方不欢迎我们。我们家是我们社区唯一的华人家庭。但是由于我们的独特，我们实际上没有遭到太多歧视。
Q. Was your main focus getting into Parsons to study fashion at an early age?
问：你是很小的时候就打定主意去帕森斯学院学习服装设计吗？
A. I always wanted to be a fashion designer. Even when I was 4 years old, my best friend from childhood, Candy, remembers me talking about it. Growing up, I remember reading an article in Life magazine about two girls who graduated from Parsons School of Design in New York and then moved to Paris, where Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton opened a boutique for them. As a kid, you think you’ve found the magic ticket — all you need to do was move to New York and go to Parsons!
答：我一直想当服装设计师。我儿时最好的朋友坎迪(Candy)记得我在4岁的时候就说过这样的话。长大后，我记得在《Life》杂志上读到一篇文章，说的是两个女孩从纽约帕森斯设计学院毕业，然后搬到巴黎，伊丽莎白·泰勒(Elizabeth Taylor)和理查德·伯顿(Richard Burton)在那里给她们开了一家精品服装店。那时候我还是个孩子，我以为自己找到了一把神奇的钥匙——你只要去纽约上帕森斯学院就行了！
Years later, when I re-read that Life magazine article, I realized that one of the girls’ fathers was the legendary photographer Irving Penn, which might have given them certain advantages. As a child, you don’t understand those connections.
多年后，我重读那篇文章时，意识到其中一个女孩的父亲是传奇摄影师欧文·佩恩(Irving Penn)，那可能让她们具有一定的优势。但是你小的时候不可能理解那种关系网。
Do you think yourself fortunate that you did not have to be either a housewife or a doctor or lawyer, that there were many more possibilities opening up?
问：你不必当家庭主妇，也不用当医生或律师，而是有了更多的选择，你是否觉得自己很幸运？
A. Yes, I’m of the first generation of Chinese-Americans that were allowed to pursue other careers.
答：是的，我是第一代被允许追求其他事业的华裔美国人。
Q. Right from the start of your fashion business you wanted to focus on what you did and who you were. Your brother and friends helped decorate the store. Was opening the store the best decision you ever made?
问：从你的服装事业之初，你就想专注于你做的事情和你的个性。你的哥哥（或弟弟）和朋友们帮忙装修店铺。开店是你做过的最好的决定吗？
A. Everything fell into place when I opened my first shop in New York. We got together to help create the elements that would eventually define Anna Sui iconography: lavender walls, red-stained floor, Tiffany lamps, rock posters, Victorian flea-market furniture festooned with carved roses, painted glossy black and upholstered in purple velvet.
答：我在纽约开第一家店时，一切开始就位。我们一起创造出最终定义安娜苏的元素：淡紫色的墙壁，带有红点的地板，蒂凡尼灯具，摇滚海报，来自跳蚤市场、刻有玫瑰的维多利亚式家具，刷着光亮的黑漆，装有紫色天鹅绒软垫。
Q. You see Japan as “fashion crazy.” Is it true that young women there like to dress head-to-toe in Anna Sui? 
问：你认为日本“对时装特别疯狂”。那里的年轻女人们真的喜欢从头到脚用安娜·苏来打扮自己吗？
A. Some of my fans there own more Anna Sui than me! The whole kawaii thing relates to that look, but ultimately you would describe it as a mix of girly feminine side and rebellious side.
答：我在那里的一些粉丝们拥有的安娜·苏产品比我还多！她们喜欢可爱的东西，所以喜欢我的产品，但你其实可以归纳为她们既想展示少女的一面，又想展示叛逆的一面。
Jiang Qiong Er
蒋琼耳
Ms. Jiang is chief executive and artistic director of Shang Xia.
蒋琼耳是上下(Shang Xia)公司的总经理兼艺术总监。
Hermès is your business partner and supporter, owning 90 percent of the Shang Xia brand. Are you hoping to become a Chinese Hermès?How long do you think it will take for the brand to develop a personality, as Hermès has done?
问：爱马仕(Hermès)是你的商业伙伴和支持者，拥有上下公司90%的份额。你想成为中国的爱马仕吗？你觉得上下这个品牌要用多长时间才能像爱马仕那样发展出自己的个性？
Shang Xia is a Chinese culture-rooted maison, a house. Our mission is to take our Chinese cultural heritage from the past and recreate the value for the future. Shang Xia is a culture-oriented business, so it takes time to build the foundation. Hermès has had 170 years, and Shang Xia is only 5 years old.
答：上下是个植根于中国文化的公司。我们的使命是汲取中国传统文化遗产，重塑它未来的价值。上下是个以文化为导向的公司，所以我们会花时间打好这个基础。爱马仕有170年的历史，上下才刚诞生5年。
Q. What are these processes in luxury brand building for China?
问：在中国打造一个奢侈品牌有哪些步骤？
A. Finding artisans, ateliers; learning about the know-how; becoming friends with craftspeople; making designs, testing designs; innovation from tradition, failure sometimes, try again. We give each object at Shang Xia a personal and emotional life.
答：找到技师和工作室；学习专门技术；结交手工艺人；做设计以及测试设计；在传统基础上创新，有时会失败，再次尝试。我们赋予上下的每件产品一个独特、感人的生命。
Q. What traditional fabrics or materials do you work with?
问：你采用了哪些传统面料或材料？
A. Our cashmere felt — this is a traditional skill from Mongolia, and the original way is in wool. But we think that for urban use, we need to find another raw material more tender, lighter, softer. So here it is cashmere. To replace wool with cashmere it took us several years to finalize the technique. Now the cashmere-felt know-how can be enjoyed by city people, as a beautiful, seamless coat without any cutting or sewing. It takes two to three weeks to make one piece.
答：羊绒毡。它是蒙古的一种传统工艺，本来用的是羊毛。但是我们考虑到在城市里穿着的话需要一种更柔软、更轻盈的原材料。所以我们就用羊绒来替代。我们花了好几年时间才最终完善了用羊绒代替羊毛的工艺。现在城里人可以享用这种羊绒毡服装，比如一件漂亮的无缝外衣，它未经任何裁切或缝纫。做一件需要两三个星期。
Q. You are the brand’s artistic director, with a mother who is an artist and a father an architect who built the Shanghai Museum. So your heritage gives you exceptional creative credentials. Is this typical in China? Or is it difficult for cultural and artistic people to get the education that they need?
问：你是这个品牌的艺术总监。你母亲是艺术家，父亲是建筑师，设计了上海博物馆。所以你的家庭环境让你格外具有创造力。这种情况在中国普遍吗？还是说文化和艺术工作者在中国很难得到他们需要的教育？
A. I am very lucky to have an artistic family, as you said. And more than that, I am also lucky to have had some master painters as my professors since the age of 6 because what they taught is not only the simple painting and calligraphy technique; it is more about life philosophy, about human ethics, about the art of living. That is not typical in China, and I am very grateful for what my family, professors and friends have brought to me, to my life. This is the richness of life.
答：如你所说，生在这样一个有艺术氛围的家庭里，我非常幸运。更重要的是，我从六岁起就有一些绘画大师做我的老师，这也是我的幸运之处。因为他们教给我的不仅是绘画和书法技巧，更是人生哲学、伦理道德和生活的艺术。这在中国并不常见，我十分感激我的家庭、老师和朋友给我的人生带来的一切。这是人生的富足。
Huishan Zhang
张卉山
A student at Central Saint Martins in London, chosen by Delphine Arnault of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton before he had graduated — Huishan Zhang, now 31, is having every Asian designer’s dream career. He now works in London, but his clothes are manufactured in his hometown, Qingdao, a city of more than eight million in eastern China.
张卉山是伦敦中央圣马丁学院的学生，毕业前就被路威酩轩(LVMH)集团的戴尔芬·阿尔诺(Delphine Arnault)选中。31岁的张卉山现在拥有每个亚洲设计师梦想的事业。他在伦敦工作，不过他的衣服是在故乡青岛生产的，这是中国东部一个拥有800多万人口的城市。
Q. As a designer born in China, how have you approached the West?
问：作为一个在中国出生的设计师，你是如何接近西方的？
A. Basically it was a challenge in time, especially when I started, because the concept I was trying to set up was really to show the craftsmanship of my country. How can I combine both cultures together?
答：那是个挑战，特别是刚开始的时候，因为我想建立的概念实际上是展示我祖国的手工艺。我怎么才能把这两种文化结合起来呢？
This is not a new concept, it has been done in the past. What I want to achieve, is really from a young native Chinese fashion designer point of view, to show what I have been learning, what I have been experiencing through my life. So I also have to convince people that Made in China actually can have another side, another meaning, which actually can stand for good quality and luxury goods.
这不是个新概念，以前有人尝试过。我想从一个土生土长的年轻中国时装设计师的角度来展示我学到的东西以及我人生中经历过的东西。所以我还必须让人们相信“中国制造”可以有另一面，有另一个意思，可以代表高质量和奢侈品。
Q. So, do you feel it is the support you have received that has nurtured your success?
问：那你是否认为是你得到的支持孕育了你的成功？
A. You know, it has been a challenge, but all the encouragement that all the good people around me gave me a lot of confidence. It pushed me forward. More encouragingly, my first fashion collection was bought by Browns in London and, later on, the second shop that picked me up was Joyce in Hong Kong.
答：你知道，那是个挑战，但是我身边的人鼓励我，给了我很多信心，推动我向前进。更鼓舞人心的是，我的第一个服装系列被伦敦的布朗斯百货公司买走，第二个选中我的是香港的Joyce精品店。
So basically we have been very well received through the market. We are also very lucky to be stocked by Barneys in New York. Barneys put me in three locations: Beverly Hills, Madison Avenue and online. So now we are selling in eight different countries.
所以基本上市场对我们还是非常接受的。非常幸运的是，纽约巴尼斯百货公司也进了我们的货。巴尼斯把我的服装放在三个地方销售：比弗利山、麦德逊大道和网上。现在我们在八个国家有销售点。
Q. How did it start? Did you go to some sort of design school in China? Where did you start your design education?
问：这一切是怎么开始的？你在中国上过什么设计学校吗？你是在哪里开始接受设计教育的？
A. I went abroad when I was 17. I went to New Zealand. I was very lucky, supported by my parents to go overseas to really see the world.
答：我17岁的时候出国，去了新西兰。我十分幸运，父母支持我出国去见世面。
When I was in New Zealand I had a wonderful time there and I learned all my pattern-cutting skills, also all my patchwork skills. It gave me a very good foundation. And later on, after my education in New Zealand, I decided — you know at the time, Central Saint Martins was every fashion student’s dream. All of the great masters, like Alexander McQueen and Galliano, went there. I was very lucky; I was able to come to London and get into Central Saint Martins and my career started from that point.
我在新西兰过得非常愉快，学会了图案剪裁和拼缝技巧。我在那里打下了很好的基础。在新西兰接受教育之后，我决定——你知道那时候，中央圣马丁学院是每个服装专业学生的梦想。所有的大师，比如亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)和加利亚诺(Galliano)，都在那里念过书。我非常幸运，能够来伦敦就读中央圣马丁学院，我的事业就是在那里起步的。
Q. Were you at Saint Martins when Delphine Arnault picked you out to do an apprenticeship at Dior?
问：戴尔芬·阿尔诺选你去迪奥做学徒时，你还在圣马丁学院就读，是吗？
A. It was a very rare opportunity and when I think back it is still a very unbelievable experience.
答：那是个非常难得的机会，现在回头想想，仍觉得那是个非常不可思议的经历。
Q. How difficult do you think it is now for a Chinese student of this generation to start in fashion?
问：你觉得这一代中国学生想进入时装界困难吗？
A. I think at the moment it is getting very, very easy. For example, you can apply to Central Saint Martins in China now. I had to Google Central Saint Martins; it took me a little while to find the right contact to apply to the school. Because the whole concept, even for fashion design was really unknown.
答：我觉得现在一切变得非常、非常容易。现在你在中国就可以申请就读圣马丁学院。我当时必须在谷歌上搜索，很是花了些工夫才找到处理申请事务的联系人。因为当时连时装设计这个概念都不大为人所知。
China picked this up very fast. I remember when I chose fashion design, my mum asked me what is it really about — and I could not really explain to her because, even thought I love it, I don’t really know what it’s about.
中国这方面发展得很快。我记得我选择时装设计的时候，妈妈问我那到底是干什么的，我也跟她解释不清楚，因为虽然我很喜欢它，但是我也不确定它是做什么的。
I told my Mum at the time, I said, “Mum, if I do it at least I can make you a dress” and she thinks “Oh! This is actually not too bad.” I really thank my parents, as they gave me a lot of freedom to choose something I really like. It really showed another side of the Chinese parent, how much they support their children.
当时我跟我妈说：“妈妈，如果我学这个的话，至少我能给你做件裙子。”她想“哦！那还行。”我真的感谢我的父母，他们给了我很大的自由，让我选择自己真正喜欢的事情。这展示了中国父母的另一面——他们非常支持自己的孩子。
Do they have any connection with the industry of fashion and clothes? Do your parents have any background in fashion?
问：他们跟服装业有什么关系吗？你父母从事过与服装相关的工作吗？
A. Not at all. They are doing something completely different, metals manufacturing. We had hard time at the beginning of my career because people don’t understand, especially experienced seamstresses, why a garment has to be sewn in such a way, why they have to really follow the way that we tell them.
答：完全没有。他们做的是完全不同的工作——金属制造。我们在事业起步的时候还挺艰难的，因为人们不理解，特别是有经验的女裁缝，她们不理解为什么服装必须用那种方式缝制，为什么她们必须按照我们说的方法去做。
So it’s been very hard and difficult but now it’s getting better. We actually have more patience, passion and encouragement to carry on because people now really understand what it’s about and really help me to build my brand. I think it’s very encouraging.
曾经很艰难，但是现在好多了。我们现在有更多耐心、激情和勇气去前进，因为人们现在真的理解我，真的在帮我建立自己的品牌。这特别鼓舞人。
Q. If we look at Asia, perhaps leaving out Tokyo as it has had a long connection with fashion, where do you think it will be in, say, 10 to 15 years time? Are there going to be a number of significant designers with an Asian background?
问：你觉得十年或15年后，哪里会成为亚洲的时装之都——也许要把东京排除在外，因为它本来就与时装有长久的联系？你觉得会有很多亚洲出身的著名设计师吗？
A. I think there will be, and I hope there will be. Because you know, the world is such a mix now and everybody travels and China is really open. The whole of Asia has become very active because of its economy and even if there is a downturn, we still are quite active in this area.
答：我觉得会，我也希望会。因为你知道，现在这个世界相互往来密切，每个人都在旅游，中国真的很开放。整个亚洲经济繁荣，所以非常活跃，即使偶尔低迷，我们在这个区域仍然非常活跃。
Yiling Zhang and Gilles Dufour
张奕龄和吉勒斯·杜福尔(Gilles Dufour)
When a mighty Chinese cashmere company decided that it wanted to give a more fashionable edge to its knitwear empire, Yiling Zhang decided to take on a French designer who had been at the heart of haute luxury for his entire career, especially 15 years alongside Karl Lagerfeld at Chanel in Paris.
当中国的一个强大的羊绒公司决定让自己的针织品帝国变得更时尚时，张奕龄决定雇佣一名法国设计师，这位设计师整个事业都处于高级奢侈品的中心地带，特别是和卡尔·拉格菲尔德(Karl Lagerfeld)在巴黎的香奈儿(Chanel)共事15年。
Gilles Dufour joined Erdos Cashmere Group in 2008, using his skills to reshape the fit and proportions of its knitwear, especially cashmere from Mongolia. The designer says that he has been impressed by the state-of-the art equipment and the hardworking staff — but that, inevitably, there was a learning curve to make the knitwear fashionable without frightening off conventional customers.
吉勒斯·杜福尔2008年加入鄂尔多斯羊绒集团，用他的技艺重塑针织品的剪裁和比例，特别是来自蒙古的羊绒。杜福尔说，这里最先进的设备和努力工作的员工给他留下了深刻的印象，但是这无疑需要一个过程，要让这些针织衫既时尚，又不会吓跑传统顾客。
Mr. Zhang, whose wife, Jane Wang, had developed a fashion brand of her own, is clear about why he felt the need to incorporate a stronger design element in what had been a straightforward manufacturing enterprise.
张奕龄的妻子简·王(Jane Wang)开发了自己的时装品牌，所以他十分清楚为什么他需要在一个简单的生产企业中融入强大的设计元素。
“Chinese consumers began to mature and have higher expectations for design and fashion taste,” the executive explains. At the same time, foreign and local brands were continuing to observe consumers and to learn from each other, resulting in the foreign companies beginning to move into smaller cities and the local ones to accumulate a considerable amount of industry know-how and financial resources.
“中国消费者开始成熟起来，对设计和时尚品味有了更高的期待，”担任总经理的张奕龄解释说。同时，外国品牌和本土品牌在继续观察消费者，互相学习。结果，外国公司开始进军小城市，而本土品牌也积累了很多行业专门技术和资金来源。
“As a result,” he continued, “a selected group of Chinese brands shifted the focus of work to improving creativity, management and brand building. However, there are as yet few Chinese brands who have genuinely developed an overseas sales network to offer their fashion in foreign markets.” He said Erdos was fortunate to have completed that process.
“结果，”他继续说道，“一些中国品牌把重心转移到提高创造力、管理能力和品牌建设上。不过，没有几个中国品牌真正开发出海外销售网，从而在海外市场销售自己的服装。”他说，幸运的是，鄂尔多斯已经完成这个过程。
From Mr. Dufour’s position as a creative person, he notes that Chinese artists and designers have succeeded in developing their own voices, although he believes it will take at least another generation before China can repair the hole left by the Cultural Revolution.
杜福尔从一名创意工作者的角度，发现中国的艺术家和设计师已经成功创造出自己的特色，不过他认为中国要想弥补“文革”留下的空白，至少还需要一代人的努力。
And Mr. Zhang also notes that there is an interesting difference between Asian and European fashion industries.
张奕龄也注意到亚洲和欧洲时装业之间有一些有意思的不同之处。
“While fashions in Europe share a similar origin, fashions in Asia originate from very different cultures and backgrounds,” he says. “Therefore I feel it is difficult to discuss fashion in Asia holistically from the Chinese point of view. In other words, I feel that knowledge about the Chinese fashion industry does not, to a large extent, represent well the Asian fashion industry in terms of insight and understanding rather than market size.”
“欧洲时装公司的起源很接近，而亚洲时装公司起源于非常不同的文化和背景，”他说，“所以我感觉很难从中国人的角度讨论亚洲时装。换句话说，我觉得从很大程度上讲，中国时装业不能代表整个亚洲时装业，不是因为市场大小不同，而是因为看法和理解不同。”
Phillip Lim and Wen Zhou
林能平(Phillip Lim)和周绚文(Wen Zhou)
The A.B.C.’s — American-born Chinese — pack a punch in New York fashion. Phillip Lim, who offered his first 3.1 Phillip Lim collection in 2005, was raised in California. With his business partner, Wen Zhou, the designer has built a successful business in New York.
美国出生的华人在纽约时装界势头强劲。2005年推出3.1 Phillip Lim的林能平是在加利福尼亚州长大的。他和自己的商业伙伴周绚文在纽约建立了一个成功的公司。
He is part of American fashion’s Asian wave, which includes Thakoon Panichgul, born in Thailand; Peter Som, whose father moved to the United States from a Chinese village; and Jason Wu from Taipei, who is a favorite of Michelle Obama.
他是美国时装界亚洲浪潮的一员，其他设计师包括泰国出生的塔库恩·帕尼克歌尔(Thakoon Panichgul)；邓志明(Peter Som)，他的父亲从中国农村移民到美国；台北的吴季刚(Jason Wu)，他是米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)最喜欢的设计师。
The roster also includes Derek Lam, of Chinese-American parents; Alexander Wang, now with a string of stores across China and a position in Paris as the creative director of Balenciaga; and Humberto Leon, whose mother was Chinese, and Carol Lim, of Korean ancestry, who have their own Opening Ceremony retail brand as they design for Kenzo in Paris.
这份花名册上还有林达克(Derek Lam)，他的父母是美籍华人；王大仁(Alexander Wang)，他现在在中国有很多店铺，在巴黎担任巴黎世家(Balenciaga)的创意总监；温贝托·梁(Humberto Leon)，她的母亲是中国人；卡罗尔·李(Carol Lim)，他祖籍韩国。后两位有自己的开幕式(Opening Ceremony)零售品牌，同时在巴黎为高田贤三(Kenzo)做设计。
Q. Phillip Lim, do you yourself feel Asian? And if so, what does that mean?
问：林能平，你感觉自己是亚洲人吗？如果是的，那是什么感觉？
A. Yes, I feel very Asian and have a strong connection and respect for my cultural background and upbringing. I think I wouldn’t be human if I didn’t. But, ultimately, what does “feeling Asian” feel like? For me, it’s just me. It is who I am and what I know.
答：是的，我强烈感觉自己是亚洲人，我对自己的文化背景和成长环境有强烈的联系和尊重。我觉得如果不尊重，我就不是人。但是“感觉自己是亚洲人”到底是什么感觉？对我来说，就是做我自己。就是我是谁以及我知道的东西。
I strongly believe that we are the sum of all parts — not exclusive to where we were born but informed by everything around us during the journey of growing up. Each of us is absolutely unique. We all have our own ways of doing things. We just happen to be of Asian origin living in America.
我坚定地认为，我们都是由各个部分组成的整体，并不完全取决于我们在哪里出生，而是受到成长过程中接触到的一切信息的影响。我们每个人都绝对是独一无二的。我们都有自己做事情的方法。我们只是碰巧是生活在美国的华裔罢了。
Q. How did you achieve success internationally? In the way you design? Finding the right business partner in Wen Zhou? Is it your personality? Your skills?
问：你是如何在国际上取得成功的？是因为你设计的方式，还是因为找到了周绚文这个合适的商业伙伴？是因为你的个性，还是因为你的技巧？
A. I think it is the alchemy of a lot of parts — like a recipe, the right measurements of each. One simply doesn’t exist without the other. In the time that we live in, it isn’t enough to be just creative. You have to have the right infrastructure and support to have your message heard.
答：我认为是很多因素结合到一起的结果，就像菜谱，要适量放入每种配料。单靠哪个因素都无法成功。在我们这个时代，单有创意还不够。你必须有很好的基础设施，得到足够的支持，才能让别人知道你的想法。
As a designer, you have to understand what it is to be “international.” It’s not just about distance or location or about where you have traveled. It’s also about the experience and being exposed to the world. Ultimately, the industry is not as segmented as it may have been in the past. It is now, more than ever, a global marketplace. So your point of view has to be connected.
作为设计师，你必须明白“国际化”的意思。它不是指距离、地点或者你去过的地方，而是关于经验以及向世界展示你自己。如今这个行业不像过去那样是割裂的。现在的市场是全球化的。所以你的观点必须跟世界联系起来。
Q. Wen Zhou, is there an “Asian” style? Or is it just a coincidence that a lot of designers building brands in America have Asian parents or grandparents?
问：周绚文，有没有所谓的“亚洲”风尚？还是说只是碰巧很多在美国创立品牌的设计师祖籍在亚洲？
A. Our brand philosophy for designing is not for a specific cultural style; it’s never too literal. The collections have always aimed to evolve for our global customers, the global citizen.
答：我们品牌的设计理念不是针对某种文化风尚，从来都不是这样。我们的服装系列一直是面向全球客户的，面对的是世界公民。
I only have the hindsight to speak about our own brand. We would not be where we are if it were not for hard work. To be successful anywhere doing anything, hard work is the one common denominator — Asian or non-Asian.
谈论我们的品牌，我只有后见之明。如果不是因为努力，我们很难做到现在这个样子。不管你在什么地方做什么事情，不管你是不是亚洲人，要想成功，都需要努力。
Q. Has the growth of the Phillip Lim business been primarily in the United States and then across the world? Or has development in Asia been a crucial factor? If so, how many points of sale are there in Asia? And compared with Europe, or other countries outside the United States?
问：林能平的生意是先在美国发展起来然后推向全球的吗？还是说亚洲的发展是关键因素？如果是这样的话，亚洲的销售占了多少？与欧洲或美国以外的其他国家相比呢？
A. The United States was our springboard to the rest of the world, and it continues to be our largest market by volume, with European business still strong and growing steadily. Especially now, with the success of our accessories collection, it has given us more flexibility to build and grow.
答：美国是我们通向世界其他地方的跳板，从销量上讲，它仍是我们最大的市场，欧洲的销售仍然很强劲，而且在稳步增长。特别是现在，由于配饰系列的成功，我们的发展有了更大的灵活性。
Asia has certainly been feeding this fire of growth, but there is still tremendous potential there. The market is still very much maturing. We are aiming to work with this market in a controlled manner, not oversaturating it. This has been the way we have grown our business from Day One, steadily and concentrating on what feels right.
亚洲当然对我们的增长起到了作用，但是那里还有巨大的发展空间。亚洲市场仍在不断成熟。我们打算用可控的方式发展这个市场，不让它过于饱和。我们从第一天起就在用这种方式做生意——稳步发展，把重点放在感觉正确的地方。
Our key points of sale have been a great collaboration with Lane Crawford, Joyce and On Pedder. They have always been the pioneers in their markets, and have a very clear understanding of our brand.
我们的销售主要是通过和连卡佛(Lane Crawford)、Joyce以及安派德(On Pedder)合作。它们一直是零售市场的领导者，对我们的品牌非常了解。
Angelica Cheung
张宇
Ms. Cheung is editor of Vogue China. Introduced in 2005, the magazine marked its 100th issue this month with a tribute to the country’s cultures, a visual celebration of Chinese style through the lens of Mario Testino.
张宇是《Vogue》中国版的编辑。该杂志于2005年面世，本月出版的第100期透过马里奥·特斯蒂诺(Mario Testino)的镜头对中国文化和风尚进行了视觉上的颂扬。
Q. How do you feel about design growth in China?
问：你怎么看中国的设计成长？
A. We have been supporting Chinese design talent since the launch of Vogue China in 2005, when we created a regular column called “Made in China,” dedicated to discovering, showcasing and supporting Chinese designers. And we were the first magazine to do that regularly.
答：从《Vogue》中国版2005年开始发行起，我们就一直在支持中国的设计天才们。我们设立了一个固定的栏目，名叫“中国制造”，致力于发掘、展示和支持中国设计师。我们是第一个长期这么做的杂志。
I am very happy to see how they have matured over the past few years. Uma Wang, whom we brought to Milan for the first time a few years ago via a project with Vogue Italy, and then put on our designers exchange program with the Council of Fashion Designers of America and American Vogue, is now showing on schedule in Milan.
我非常高兴地看到在过去几年中他们如何成熟起来。几年前，我们通过与《Vogue》意大利版的一个项目合作，把王汁(Uma Wang)第一次带到米兰，之后让她参加我们和美国时装设计师协会以及《Vogue》美国版举办的设计师交流项目。如今，她定期在米兰举办时装秀。
Masha Ma, the second Chinese designer we selected, has now been showing in Paris for the past three seasons.
玛莎·马(Masha Ma)是我们选择的第二位华裔设计师，最近的三个时装季，她都在巴黎举办时装秀。
Huishan Zhang, whose first-ever press exposure was in Vogue China while he was still a student, has his presentation in London during fashion week and has been garnering lots of international press. He won the Dorchester Collections designer award in London this month.
张卉山第一次在媒体上曝光是在《Vogue》中国版上，当时他还是学生。他在伦敦时装周上展示了自己的服装系列，吸引了很多国际媒体的关注。本月他在伦敦获得了多尔切斯特设计师奖。
Q. How easy is it to start a fashion business in China?
问：在中国开设一个时装公司容易吗？
A. The independent designer market is still small here, in comparison to how large the country and consumer base is. There are a lot of difficulties. As independent designers running a start-up, they find it very hard to get experienced and dedicated staff — from business management to logistics support. Even big international fashion groups are finding it hard to hire good quality staff in China.
答：与中国庞大的市场和顾客群相比，这里的独立设计师市场仍然很小。他们有很多困难。起步阶段的独立设计师发现自己很难找到有经验且专注的员工——从公司管理到物流支持都是如此。甚至连国际大型时装集团也觉得很难在中国雇佣到高素质的员工。
It is also hard to keep hold of skilled workers in China, to find fabrics and factories, which are so used to producing garments in large quantities. A lot of them have to go abroad to get things finished, which is obviously a large inhibition for a small business.
在中国留住娴熟的工人、寻找面料和工厂都很难。中国的工厂习惯于大批量生产服装。很多设计师不得不出国完成生产，对小公司来说这显然是很大的障碍。
Q. Are there any new “voices” — designers with something powerful to say?
问：有没有什么新的“声音”？换句话说，有没有哪些设计师有特别重要的话要说？
A. I feel the biggest challenge to the new generation of independent designers is finding that unique voice of their own. There are just so many brands and designers in the world these days and many things they can think of have already been done by someone else.
答：我感觉新一代独立设计师们最大的挑战是找到自己独特的声音。现在世界上有那么多品牌和设计师，中国设计师能想到的很多事情已经有人做过了。
There is a lot of good will out there to support Chinese designers.
有很多人愿意支持中国设计师。
However, there is one thing others cannot do for them, which is to develop that unique voice that is their own and genuine. It has got to come from themselves.
但是，有一件事是其他人帮不了的，那就是找到自己独特、真实的声音。那必须来自他们自己。
How to make their voice Chinese but at the same time international and contemporary? A voice that is sustainable and has the potential to grow and evolve?
怎么让他们的声音既具有中国特色，又具有国际精神和当代精神？怎么让他们的声音具有可持续性，能够继续壮大和发展呢？
Q. Are you impressed by the success of the American-born Chinese in New York?
问：美国出生的华人在纽约取得的成功是否给你留下了深刻印象？
A. A.B.C. designers have benefited from a much earlier exposure to everything that America had to give — from much earlier education of a more liberal and sophisticated nature, to much earlier exposure to fashion, an American urban lifestyle, multiple cultural influences, the pragmatic business and commercial approach of the American market, as well as, more importantly, a general culture of having a dream and the courage to realize it.
答：美国出生的华人设计师有一定的优势，他们很早就开始接触美国能够他们提供的一切——他们很早就被教育要拥有更自由和复杂的天性，很早就开始接触时装，了解美国的都市生活方式，受到多种文化的影响，了解美国市场的功利性和商业性。更重要的是，他们所处的文化鼓励他们有梦想并有勇气去实现梦想。
In comparison, Chinese designers from China only started such exposure and experience a few years ago — almost literally since Vogue China launched almost nine years ago. So in that regard, they have come a long way very quickly already.
相比之下，中国的设计师们在几年前才开始接触和体验这种文化，差不多是从九年前《Vogue》中国版开始发行开始的。所以从这个角度讲，他们已经取得了很大的进步。