In a nearly three-hour auction of postwar and contemporary art on Tuesday night, Christie’s managed to sell nearly $745 million worth of blue-chip paintings and sculptures, thanks in large part to the enormous wealth of Asian collectors.
周二晚上，在长达将近三小时的战后与当代艺术品拍卖会上，主要来自亚洲藏家的巨额财富，使得佳士得拍出了价值将近7.45亿美元的昂贵油画与雕塑。
“I think they’re Hoover vacuum cleaners — they’re buying everything,” said Bill Bell, a Los Angeles collector who, earlier in the evening, tried to buy one of Andy Warhol’s fabled images of Marilyn Monroe. But like scores of other collectors, he was beaten by Xin Li, deputy chairman of Christie’s Asia, who could be seen bidding on behalf of telephone buyers; Ms. Li ended up buying half of the evening’s top 10 works.
“我觉得他们就像胡佛电动吸尘器一样——他们什么都买，”来自洛杉矶的藏家比尔·贝尔(Bill Bell)说，当晚早些时候，他曾试图买下一幅安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)著名的玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)画像，但和其他几十个藏家一样败给了佳士得亚洲区副总裁李昕，她代表若干电话买家竞拍；李女士最后拍下了当晚最贵的十件拍品中的一半。
Christie’s had already scored one victory on Monday night with its experimental sale of contemporary art put together by Loic Gouzer, a 33-year-old expert there. That sale — just 35 works — brought $134.6 million, roughly $10 million over the high estimate of $124 million. It left collectors feeling confident about the market.
佳士得在周一晚上的当代艺术试验性拍卖上也取得了成功，该活动是由33岁的专家卢瓦克·古泽(Loic Gouzer)组织的。现场只拍卖了35件作品，卖出了1.346亿美元，比最高估价1.24亿美元约高出1000万美元。该拍卖令藏家对市场产生信心。
Tuesday night’s sale, however, was the highest total for a single auction, not accounting for inflation, in Christie’s history, officials at the auction house said, adding that about 30 percent of the buyers were new to Christie’s. Of the 72 works on offer, only four failed to sell.
据佳士得的工作人员说，周二晚的拍卖则创下了佳士得历史上单场拍卖的最高成交总纪录（不计通货膨胀因素），此外，当晚有30%的竞拍者是佳士得的新买家。在参加拍卖的72件作品中，只有四件流拍。
The Rockefeller Center salesroom was overflowing with some of the country’s more serious collectors, including Mark Fisch, a real estate developer; J. Tomlison Hill, vice chairman of the Blackstone Group; and Andrew Saul, a New York financier — all trustees of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Also present were Laurence Graff, the London jeweler; Marc Jacobs, the fashion designer; and Eli Broad, the Los Angeles financier.
洛克菲勒中心拍卖场里挤满了这个国家最重要的收藏家们，其中包括房地产开发商马克·菲施(Mark Fisch)、黑石集团副总裁J·汤姆里森·希尔(J. Tomlison Hill)以及纽约金融家安德鲁·索尔(Andrew Saul)，他们都是大都会艺术馆的理事。此外出席的还有伦敦珠宝商劳伦斯·格拉夫(Laurence Graff)、时装设计师马克·雅布(Marc Jacobs)和洛杉矶金融家艾利·布罗德(Eli Broad)。
More than half the works had already been spoken for, or guaranteed, meaning either Christie’s or a third party had promised the sellers an undisclosed sum in advance.
参加拍卖会的半数作品都已经有了买主，也就是说佳士得或第三方预先承诺了卖家一个秘密的担保价。
But few predicted that the top seller would be an abstract canvas by Barnett Newman. Four bidders fought over “Black Fire I,” from 1961, which pairs the artist’s black palette with his signature device: the zip, a feathery band of a contrasting color that defines the composition. The work, which had been on loan to the Philadelphia Museum of Art for decades, was being sold by the Daniel W. Dietrich II trust. It ended up selling to a telephone bidder for $84.1 million.
但几乎没有人预料到拍出最高价的商品是巴奈特·纽曼(Barnett Newman)的抽象油画。四个竞拍者就1961年的《黑色火焰I》(Black Fire I)展开了竞争。画面上是黑色颜料与画家标志性的物品：拉链，以大片柔软的对比色作为构图。这幅画几十年来一直暂放在费城美术馆，由丹尼尔·W·迪特里克II(Daniel W. Dietrich II)信托基金出售，最后被一个电话买家以8410万美元买走。
(Final prices include the buyer’s premium: 25 percent of the first $100,000; 20 percent of the next $100,000 to $2 million; and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)
（最终价格包括买家费用：第一个10万美元中抽取25%；10万美元到200万美元之间抽取20%；200万美元以上抽取12%。预估价不包括佣金在内。）
In November, the auction house scored a coup when Elaine Wynn, a co-founder of the casino empire, spent $142.4 million for Francis Bacon’s “Three Studies of Lucian Freud,” a triptych from 1969. Christie’s sold another triptych, “Three Studies for a Portrait of John Edwards,” but this one was later, from 1984. Ms. Li took the winning bid for that painting, which fetched $80.8 million, around what the auction house had predicted. The painting was sold by Pierre Chen, a Taiwanese billionaire, who is reported to have purchased the triptych privately about 10 years ago, for $15 million.
11月，拍卖行就取得了一项重大成功，赌业帝国的联合创始人伊莲·韦恩(Elaine Wynn)花1.424亿美元买下了弗朗西斯·培根(Francis Bacon)1969年的三联画《卢西安·弗洛伊德的三幅画像》(Three Studies of Lucian Freud)。这一次佳士得又卖出一幅培根的三联画《约翰·爱德华兹肖像三联画》(Three Studies for a Portrait of John Edwards)，但创作时间较晚，在1984年。李昕成功拍下了这张画，其成交额达到8080万美元，接近拍卖行的预期。这幅画被台湾亿万富翁陈泰铭买下，据报道，他十年前曾以1500万美元私下求购这幅三联画。
But some works went to American collectors. Larry Gagosian, beat out four other contenders for Warhol’s “Race Riot,” from 1964, based on news photos from Life magazine. That painting, which is said to have been sold by a family trust set up by William Acquavella, the Manhattan dealer, brought $62.8 million, over its $45 million estimate.
但也有些作品落入美国藏家之手。拉里·加戈西安(Larry Gagosian)击败其他四名竞争者，获得了沃霍尔1964年的《种族暴乱》(Race Riot)，它是根据《生活》(Life)杂志上一幅新闻照片而创作。据说这幅油画是由曼哈顿商人威廉·阿克瓦维拉(William Acquavella)设立的家庭信托机构出售。最后以6280万美元成交，高于4500万美元的预估价。
Laura Paulson, a deputy chairman of Christie’s and an expert in its postwar and contemporary art department, took the winning bid for another Warhol, “White Marilyn,” from 1962. The piece was estimated at $12 million to $18 million, and the buyer, an American, paid $41 million. It was being sold by Barbara Lee, the Boston collector who wanted to invest the money in the work of living female artists. After the hammer fell, Ms. Lee, who was sitting in second row, watching the action, said, “It’s a win-win for everyone.”
劳拉·帕尔森(Laura Paulson)是佳士得副总裁与战后和当代艺术部专家，她代表买家拍下了另一幅沃霍尔的作品，1962年的《白梦露》(White Marilyn)。这幅作品估价在1200万美元到1800万美元之间，买家是一位美国人，以4100万美元成交。这幅作品由波士顿藏家芭芭拉·李(Barbara Lee)出售，她希望用这笔钱投资在世的女性艺术家的作品。拍卖落锤之后，坐在第二排的李女士望着这一幕说：“这对所有人来说都是一个双赢的结果。”
Jeff Koons, who is gearing up for a retrospective of his work at the Whitney Museum of American Art this summer, had his work on the covers of Christie’s and Sotheby’s contemporary art catalogs this week. Stefan Edlis, the Chicago collector, parted with his “Jim Beam J. B. Turner Train,” a 1986 stainless-steel train, more than nine feet long, filled with bourbon. The train was part of “Luxury and Degradation,” an exhibition at International With Monument Gallery in SoHo that examined shallowness, excess and the dangers of luxury. That excess, some might say, was witnessed on Tuesday when Ms. Li snapped that work up, too, paying $33.7 million, over the $30 million estimate.
杰夫·库恩斯(Jeff Koons)正在为今年夏天在惠特尼美国艺术馆的个人回顾展做准备，他的作品被放在佳士得与苏富比当代艺术的拍品目录上。芝加哥收藏家斯坦芬·艾德里斯(Stefan Edlis)卖出了库恩斯1986年的《吉姆·比姆·J·B·特纳火车》(Jim Beam J. B. Turner Train)，这是一辆不锈钢火车，有九英尺多长，里面装满波旁威士忌。这辆火车曾在“奢侈与堕落”展览中展出，该展览于SoHo区的国际纪念画廊(International With Monument Gallery)举行，审视了奢侈品的肤浅、无度与危险。星期二，李昕代表买家以3370万美元拍下了这件作品，高于3000万美元的预估价，有人可能会觉得，这正是奢侈过度的反映。
There’s nothing like a fish — the Chinese symbol of good luck and fortune — to turn a salesroom into a sea of superstitious bidders. And that’s exactly what happened when Calder’s “Poisson Volant (Flying Fish),” a 1958 mobile of a giant black fish that was expected to sell for $9 million to $12 million; Ms. Li took the winning bid of nearly $26 million.
鱼在中国是幸运与财富的象征，拍卖会上，一条鱼的出现令迷信的竞拍者们沸腾了。卡尔德(Calder)1958年的悬挂物品《飞鱼》(Poisson Volant)是一条巨大的黑鱼，预估价在900万美元到1200万美元；李昕代表买家以将近2600万美元拍下了它。