The party might not be over for Asia, but for now, at least, the Champagne has been whisked away and the band has wandered off to take a break.
亚洲经济的盛宴或许还未结束，但是，至少从目前来看，香槟已被带走，乐队也休息去了。
For the past few years, Asia's developing economies — like China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand — have been powering ahead of much of the rest of the world, buoyed by a heady cocktail of stimulus from policymakers at home and investment from abroad. In 2011, the region grew more than four times as fast as the U.S. economy, and last year's 6.5 percent growth was nearly three times that of the United States. Stock markets in the Philippines and Thailand were among the world's best performers in 2012.|3| Over the past couple of months, however, some of the shine has come off the Asia story.
在过去几年里，亚洲的发展中经济体，例如中国、印度尼西亚、菲律宾和泰国，已经全速前进并赶超了世界上大多数的国家，原因则是由国内政策制定者的激励措施和海外投资组成的一帖强力药剂。2011年，该地区的经济增长速度是美国的四倍以上，去年的6.5%增长也将近美国的3倍。2012年，菲律宾和泰国股市的表现居于世界最佳之列。然而，在过去的几个月里，亚洲的故事已经失去了一些光环。
“The music has stopped playing,” said Frederic Neumann, a co-head of Asian economics at HSBC, which on July 9 slashed its growth forecasts for Asia, outside of Japan, to 6.1 percent for this year and 6.5 percent next year. The bank had projected 7.2 percent growth for both years.
“音乐已经停了下来，”汇丰银行(HSBC)的亚洲经济联席主管弗雷德里克·诺伊曼(Frederic Neumann)说。7月9日，汇丰银行大幅下调了对不含日本的亚洲经济增长的预期，将今年的增长预期调到6.1%，明年是6.5%。该银行曾经预计这两年的增长都是7.2%。
One week later, the Asian Development Bank followed suit, trimming 0.3 percentage point off its projections for developing Asia. (The bank’s definition includes more countries than HSBC’s.) That leaves it with forecasts of 6.3 percent expansion this year and 6.4 percent in 2014.
一周后，亚洲开发银行紧随其后，将其对亚洲发展中国家的预测下调了0.3%。（该银行定义的亚洲发展中国家比汇丰的定义数目更多。）该行对今年的预测由此下降为6.3%，2014年的预测则为6.4%。
And Wednesday, the latest evidence of weakness in the Chinese economy emerged in the form of a survey that showed manufacturing activity in July had contracted at its quickest pace since last summer. The survey, compiled by the research firm Markit and released by HSBC, produced a reading of 47.7 points for this month, down from 48.2 in June. A figure below 50 signals contraction.
周三，中国经济疲软的最新证据在一次调查中得到体现。调查显示，7月份，制造业活动的收缩速度达到了去年夏天以来的最高点。这次调查由调研公司Markit编制，并由英国银行汇丰发布，这个月的读数是47.7点，低于6月份的48.2。低于50的数据意味着收缩。
As Mr. Neumann put it: “The air is getting thinner.”
正像诺伊曼总结的那样：“空气越来越稀薄。”
This could also be bad news for the rest of the world, which had been hoping that booming expansion in Asia could inject some much-needed oxygen into a global economy that is weighed down by anemic growth in the West.
对于世界其他地方来说，这或许也是一个坏消息，因为这些地方都在指望亚洲的蓬勃扩张能够为全球经济注入急需的氧气，后者已被西方经济的乏力增长所拖累。
The problem for developing Asia is that two of its main drivers of growth — China’s once red-hot economy and an inflow of money prompted largely by the Federal Reserve’s efforts to revive American growth — have fizzled.
亚洲发展中国家的问题在于，驱动其增长的两股主要动力已经萎靡，一股是中国曾经炙手可热的经济，另一股则是主要因美联储(Federal Reserve)努力重振美国经济而来的大笔资金流入。
Stocks in most Asian markets have sagged, with top market indexes in Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand down about 9 percent since mid-May.
大多数亚洲市场的股票都不景气，印尼、菲律宾和泰国的顶级市场指数自5月中旬以来下降了约9%。
Currencies like the Malaysian ringgit, the Philippine peso and the Thai baht have all dropped about 5 percent against the dollar. In Indonesia, the rupiah fell earlier this month to 10,000 per dollar for the first time since September 2009.
马来西亚林吉特、菲律宾比索和泰国铢等货币兑美元的汇率全都下降了约5%。在印尼，印尼卢比汇率在本月初跌到了1万卢比兑1美元，这是自2009年9月以来的第一次。
In India, the rupee is hovering near its weakest-ever level against the dollar, prompting the central bank to announce a number of steps this month aimed at arresting the currency’s slide. And Indonesia and Thailand recently lowered their growth forecasts for 2013.
在印度，印度卢比兑美元汇率正徘徊在有史以来的最低水平，促使中央银行于本月宣布了阻止汇率下滑的一系列举措。印尼和泰国最近调低了它们对2013年经济增长的预期。
The declines are not unexpected after a period of strong gains, as investors in search of high returns poured into Asian markets over the past few years. Analysts had long warned that the inflows could reverse if conditions changed.
在一段时间的强劲增长之后，下降并不出人意料。过去几年，投资者纷纷涌入亚洲市场寻求高回报。分析师早就警告，如果情况改变，资金流入就会逆转。
Now that the situation has changed, economists at the Australia & New Zealand Banking Group wrote in a recent report, the region is “facing the consequences of having drunk too readily from an abundance of virtually free credit.”
鉴于情况已经改变，澳大利亚和新西兰银行集团(Australia & New Zealand Banking Group)的经济学家在最近的一份报告中写道，该地区“正面临太过随意地吸纳大量几乎免费的信贷带来的后果”。
For the most part, companies are well financed, analysts say, and the recent turmoil does not herald imminent collapses or a flood of defaults. But it has, at least for now, turned off the faucet on the cash that had helped fuel Asia’s recent growth spurt.
分析人士称，公司大多资金充足，最近的波动并未预示马上到来的崩溃或违约浪潮。但是，至少是就现在而言，波动已经把推动亚洲经济最近猛增的资金水龙头拧上了。
“The region’s leverage-driven growth model has come to an end,” said Mr. Neumann of HSBC.
汇丰银行的诺伊曼说，“该地区靠金融杠杆推动的增长模式已经走到尽头。”
Analysts are also nervous about China's cooling economy.
分析人士还对正在变冷的中国经济感到紧张。
After years of powering ahead at growth rates of more than 10 percent a year, China is now in the throes of a major economic overhaul aimed at raising productivity and domestic demand.
中国曾以逾10%的年增长率快速发展多年，现在则正在经历旨在提高生产力及扩大内需的重大经济改革。
But that revamp comes with slower growth. The economy — the second-largest in the world after that of the United States — could struggle to grow at a rate of 7.5 percent this year.
但是，这一改革伴随着经济增速放缓。中国是位列美国之后的世界第二大经济体，今年得努力才能实现7.5%的增长率。
That China is losing steam is not in itself unexpected. But many analysts and investors have been taken aback by increasingly clear signs that Beijing is prepared to tolerate a fair amount of short-term pain in its quest to put the economy on a firmer footing and to rein in a credit splurge that has caused overall debt levels in China to soar in recent years. Any measures to support economic activity are now likely to amount to targeted fine-tuning, rather than a repeat of the sweeping, giant stimulus that Beijing prescribed after the global financial crisis, analysts say.
中国经济放缓本身并不出人意料。然而，让许多分析人士及投资者感到吃惊的是，越来越清楚的迹象显示，北京准备承受相当程度的短期痛苦，以便追求更加稳定的经济基础，同时控制过量信贷。过量信贷已经使得中国的债务总量在最近几年激增。分析人士称，到现在，任何支持经济活动的措施多半都只会是有针对性的微调，不会重复全球金融危机之后北京拿出的那种全面的大型刺激计划。
“They realize that the old growth model is running out of road,” said Richard Jerram, chief economist at Bank of Singapore. “They have decided to reinvent themselves before they get overwhelmed by the old growth model.”
新加坡银行(Bank of Singapore)首席经济师理查·杰拉姆(Richard Jerram)说，“他们已经意识到，旧的增长模式渐渐行不通了。他们已经决定，在旧增长模式造成崩溃之前寻找新路。”
The combination of a less dynamic China, a fragile Europe and a reduced flow of easy credit from China and the United States has dulled the once-rosy outlook for the rest of Asia.
中国活力下降，欧洲经济脆弱，来自中国及美国的宽松信贷减少，这些因素加起来，使得亚洲其余国家曾经充满希望的前景黯淡了下来。
The vulnerabilities vary across the region. Commodity-exporting countries like Australia and Indonesia, for example, are most affected by China’s reduced appetite for iron ore and coal. Conversely, commodity-importing countries like India, the Philippines, South Korea and Thailand benefit from flagging Chinese demand and the resulting lower prices — especially as the recent weakening in their currencies has made it more expensive for them to purchase materials abroad.
该地区各国的弱点各有不同。例如，澳大利亚及印度尼西亚这种大宗商品出口国最受中国铁矿石及煤炭需求下降的影响。与此相反，印度、菲律宾、韩国及泰国这种商品进口国则因为中国需求下降价格降低而受益，鉴于最近的货币贬值使得他们从国外购买物品价格更高，这一点尤为重要。
India is less affected by China's cooling because it relies less than most other Asian nations on exports. But the country is one of the few in the region that is running a current account deficit — meaning its imports of goods, services and income outweigh exports — and it needs foreign capital to pay for domestic spending. Slow progress on changes and an election next year also weigh on investor confidence and have contributed to the rupee's sharp slide over the past two years.
印度受中国经济冷却的影响比较小，因为与大多数亚洲国家相比，印度最不依赖出口。但是，该国是该地区有经常账户赤字的少数几个国家之一，意味着其进口商品、服务及收入超过了其出口。此外，印度需要外资来应付国内支出。改革进展缓慢，明年又有选举，也对投资者的信心造成了影响，使得卢比在过去两年内大幅贬值。
More vigorous growth in Japan, where the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is trying to resuscitate an economy that has been languishing for decades, could help make up for some of the weakness in China.
日本的增长有所回升，可能会帮助弥补中国经济冷却的部分影响。安倍晋三政府正在努力复苏持续衰弱了几十年的日本经济。
“If Japan can succeed in powering up, it could be a powerful offset to the weakness in China,” said Stephen Schwartz, chief economist for Asia at the Spanish bank BBVA in Hong Kong. “On balance, I am still relatively optimistic about Asia’s growth prospects.”
西班牙对外银行(BBVA)香港分行的首席亚洲事务经济师史蒂芬·斯瓦茨(Stephen Schwartz)说，“如果日本能够实现经济提速，将会强有力地弥补中国经济放缓的影响。平衡来看，我仍然对亚洲的增长前景比较乐观。”