HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam — When Intel went about setting up its chip factory in Vietnam, it found an oddity: Local laws did not govern every aspect of the building.
越南胡志明市——英特尔(Intel)着手在越南建芯片工厂时，发现了一个怪现象：当地法律并不能规范建设过程的每个方面。
The government had no comprehensive standards, for instance, on refrigerant chemicals, which in the United States are typically regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency. In fact, officials asked Intel whether the company had any ideas on the subject that might be useful to other manufacturers operating in the country.
比如，政府没有针对化学制冷剂的使用出台全面的标准，在美国，环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)通常会对此加以规范。事实上，当地官员还就这个问题咨询过英特尔，问它有没有一些想法可能对其他在越南经营的制造企业有益。
Yet today, Intel’s $1 billion plant, about 10 miles from downtown Ho Chi Minh City, embraces environmental and sustainability measures far beyond those required by Vietnam’s laws. Opened in 2010, the complex has the country’s largest operating array of solar panels. Company officers say a new water-reclamation system could soon help it reduce water consumption as much as 68 percent. It is also vying for certification by the U.S. Green Building Council.
然而，如今英特尔耗资10亿美元（约合60亿元人民币）在距离胡志明市中心约10英里（约合16公里）远的地方建设的工厂，采取的环保和可持续措施远高于越南法律的要求。这座2010年投产的工厂里，运行着越南最大规模的太阳能阵列。该公司管理人员称，新的水回收系统将很快帮助该公司节约多达68%的水资源消耗。工厂也在积极争取获得美国绿色建筑协会(US Green Building Council)的认证。
Intel didn’t have to go to these lengths, but the motivation for these measures is simple, said the complex’s general manager, Sherry Boger: “It turns out, what’s good for the environment is also good for business.”
英特尔没必要做这么多，但工厂总经理谢莉·博格(Sherry Boger)表示，公司采取这些措施的动力很简单：“事实证明，有利于环境的事，也能给公司带来好处。”
Western multinationals — and in some cases, their Asian suppliers — have in the last five years started to build more environmentally sound factories in developing countries, green-building experts say. The U.S. Green Building Council, a leading global certifier, reports that only about 300 manufacturing facilities in Asia are certified or waiting for certification through its rating tool, called Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, or LEED.
绿色建筑专家称，过去五年，西方跨国公司开始在发展中国家建造更加环保的工厂，它们的亚洲供应商有时也会这么做。全球领先的认证机构美国绿色建筑协会报告称，目前在亚洲只有大约300家制造工厂得到了“能源与环境设计先锋奖”（Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design，简称LEED）认证，或者正在等待认证。
Efficiency consultants in Asia say it is difficult to estimate how much energy or money an average multinational saves by having a green-certified factory building. But the certification trend is potentially significant in Asia because so many consumer and industrial goods are manufactured in the region, offering enormous potential for energy savings if the practice becomes widespread, experts say. And a trickle of factory data suggests the energy savings at certified facilities are significant.
亚洲的能效顾问称，很难估算一栋通过绿色认证的厂房，一般能帮一家跨国公司节省多少能源或金钱。但专家表示，在亚洲取得绿色认证的趋势可能会很强，原因是如此多的消费品和工业产品都在这个地区生产，如果这种做法得到普及，将会节省大量能源。而一些工厂的数据表明，那些获得认证的工厂，节约能源的成效颇为显著。
Intel, for example, has reduced its global energy bill by $111 million since 2008 as a result of $59 million worth of sustainability investments in 1,500 projects worldwide, Ms. Boger said. The projects have offset carbon dioxide emissions equivalent to the amount produced by 126,000 American households per year, she added, and Intel’s $1.1 million solar array at the Vietnam facility offsets each day an amount of carbon dioxide equivalent to that emitted by about 500 Vietnamese motorbikes.
比如，博格说，英特尔向全球1500个项目投入了5900万美元资金用于改善可持续性，该公司在全球的能源支出因而节约了1.11亿美元。这些项目因此而减少的二氧化碳排放量，相当于12.6万个美国家庭平均每年产生的二氧化碳总量。博格补充道，英特尔越南工厂里运行的耗资110万美元的太阳能阵列，每天减少的二氧化碳排放量，大约相当于500辆越南摩托车的排放。
In 2011, an efficiency survey found that compared with a typical factory, a LEED-certified shoe factory in southern Vietnam that produces exclusively for Nike uses 18 percent less electricity and fuel and 53 percent less water, according to Melissa Merryweather, the lead sustainability consultant for the project. The factory is owned by Taekwang Vina, a joint venture of the South Korean manufacturer Taekwang and a Vietnamese partner.
梅利莎·梅里韦瑟(Melissa Merryweather)说，2011年的一项能效调查发现，与一般的工厂相比，越南南部一家通过LEED认证、专门为耐克(Nike)生产鞋子的工厂消耗的电力和燃料少18%，用水量低53%。梅里韦瑟是该项目的首席可持续顾问。这家工厂属于泰光维纳(Taekwang Vina)，后者是韩国制造商泰光产业与越南合作伙伴创立的合资公司。
Stephanie Clark, a spokeswoman for the American consumer products giant Colgate-Palmolive, provided statistics indicating that the company’s seven LEED-certified factories worldwide had reduced construction waste and lowered water and energy use. Ms. Clark added that four more such factories were under construction, and the company’s website shows that its 11 total LEED projects worldwide — five of them in Asia — represent about a third of the company’s manufacturing sites.
美国消费品巨头高露洁-棕榄公司(Colgate-Palmolive)的发言人斯蒂芬妮·克拉克(Stephanie Clark)提供的统计数据也表明，该公司在全球的七家通过LEED认证的工厂减少了建筑垃圾，也降低了水和能源的消耗量。克拉克还表示，公司另外四座这样的环保工厂正在建设中，而该公司网站上显示，它在全球共计11个通过LEED认证的项目，占公司制造工厂的三分之一，其中有五座在亚洲。
Malaysia’s government has certified about 750,000 square feet of factory space since 2009, according to the Malaysia Green Building Confederation, representing about 1 percent of its total building certifications. And Kevin Mo, director of the China buildings program at the Energy Foundation, a San Francisco-based nonprofit, said the Chinese authorities had certified eight factories out of 742 total buildings by the end of 2012, with other factories in the pipeline.
马来西亚绿色建筑联盟(Malaysia Green Building Confederation)称，自2009年以来，马来西亚政府为大约75万平方英尺（约合70万平方米）的厂房面积进行了认证，约占其批准的总建筑面积的1%。位于旧金山的非营利性机构能源基金会(Energy Foundation)的中国建筑项目主任莫争春(Kevin Mo)说，到2012年底，中国官方共给742座建筑颁发了认证，其中包括八座工厂，而另外一些工厂还在等待认证。
A market for industrial efficiency upgrades is also growing in India, where many factory owners worry about power outages, said Prashant Kapoor, principal industry specialist for green buildings at the International Finance Corporation, the private sector arm of the World Bank. He added that demand for upgrades was now consistent enough there that a few domestic contractors were beginning to make it their specialty.
世界银行(World Bank)面向私营部门的下属机构国际金融公司(International Finance Corporation)负责绿色建筑的行业专家普拉桑特·卡普尔(Prashant Kapoor)表示，印度很多工厂的所有者都担心停电的问题，在那里，对于工业能效升级的需求也在提高。他还说，由于在印度对能效升级的需求现在很稳定，该国国内一些承包商已经开始把节能升级作为其专项业务。
In contrast with Western multinationals, whose target consumers value a green approach, most domestic manufacturers in Asia typically do not see palpable benefits in applying for independent certification, sustainability experts say. Some are building greener, however, or investing in efficiency retrofits as a way of reducing energy consumption or in response to pending government regulations.
可持续性方面的专家称，西方跨国公司的目标消费者很看重绿色生产，而与这些公司不同的是，大多亚洲国家的制造企业通常看不到申请第三方认证能带来什么明显的好处。不过，一些公司还是在建设更环保的设施，或者投资进行节能改造，目的是降低能源消耗或应对政府即将出台的法规。
Jackson Seng, professional services director at the Singapore office of Schneider Electric, a French energy consulting firm, said he fielded four or five times as many requests for efficiency upgrades at factories as he did five years ago. Upgrading typically includes energy audits and installation of energy monitoring software, as well as replacing electric motors, which often consume a vast proportion of a factory’s power supply.
法国能源咨询公司施耐德电气(Schneider Electric)新加坡办公室的专业服务主任杰克逊·成(Jackson Seng)说，他经手的工厂能效升级业务，提高到了五年前的四、五倍。能效升级通常包括能源审核、安装能耗监测软件、更换电机，后者经常会消耗工厂的很大一部分电力。
Mr. Seng said that 90 percent of his clients were motivated by a desire to reduce energy costs, rather than to polish their corporate images or improve their chances of earning an international certification like LEED.
杰克逊·成说，自己90%的客户进行升级改造的目的是降低能源成本，而不是改善公司形象，或者提高获得LEED等国际认证的可能性。