The quest for status is a tremendous driver of society, at whatever level of development. It is a fundamental human desire. The new middle classes of Asia, and the new rich, are looking to assert their status. This plays out in interesting ways.
无论处在怎样的阶段，对地位的追求始终是一股强大的社会驱动力。这是一种基本的人类欲望。亚洲的新兴中产阶级，以及刚崛起的富人，正在寻求显示地位的手段。其过程颇有值得玩味的地方。
Of Vietnam’s 90 million people, about 20 million are on Facebook; around half that number live below the poverty line. A society so defined inhabits many universes at once. A teenager on a scooter among the whining legions of scooters, his bike burdened with a cage full of live chickens, passes a glitzy new “Thai Tapas Bar.” Global and local, high concept and the scramble for survival, intersect. Everyone lives somewhere. A growing number of people live everywhere. Vietnam, a war-ravaged peasant society within living memory, has bounded toward a churning urban modernity that has echoes across the world.
越南有9000万人，其中约2000万人在用Facebook；约有一半的人处在贫困线以下。一个社会在如此设定下，是同时生活在多个宇宙里的。一个少年骑着踏板摩托车，驮着装满活鸡的笼子，在摩托车的喧嚣海洋里行进，路过一家簇新的“泰式塔帕斯吧”。全球与本地，高大上与谋生的挣扎，交错并置。每个人都要找个地方生活。越来越多的人开始去各种地方生活。就在不久前，越南还是一个饱受战火摧残的小农社会，如今却阔步走向热火朝天的都市现代性，放眼世界，这样的变化比比皆是。
The global rich inhabit one country, the global middle class another, the global poor a third. There is much more in common among the global rich across national borders than between rich and poor within those borders. Perhaps it was ever so. But the world lived in ignorance, most exploitable of conditions. Awareness has changed things. It is a force multiplier and a motivator. It is near irreversible once acquired. It drives the ache for status, as evident now in Ho Chi Minh City as Hollywood.
一个国家住着全球的富人，一个国家住着全球的中产阶级，还有一个国家住着全球的穷人。在全球各国富人中能找到的共性，远比一国之内的富人和穷人之间的共性要多。可能从来如此。但世界曾经生活在一种无知的、极易被利用的状态中。意识带来了改变。它是一种火力加成，一个激励因子。一旦知晓，逆转就是几乎不可能的了。它会加剧对地位的渴望，这一点在胡志明市的体现，跟在好莱坞一样明显。
The notion that globalization equals homogenization has become a commonplace. You travel 10,000 miles and find yourself gazing at a Domino’s Pizza or a Dunkin’ Donuts. Upscale neighborhoods are full of the same kinds of ads for personal fitness trainers. Malls are filled with the same “power brands.” Children show the same tendencies toward pudginess or even obesity as their diets are changed by global fast food. The Vietnamese rich want the same Prada bags as the rich throughout the world, the new middle class craves the same symbols of their rise, and the poor are just poor like the poor everywhere.
将全球化等同为均质化的观念已经很普遍。你不远万里来到某个地方，发现眼前有一家达美乐比萨(Domino’s Pizza)或唐恩都乐(Dunkin’ Donuts)。高尚住宅区遍布着差不多的个人健身教练广告。购物中心里满是一样的“强力品牌”。儿童都趋向于胖乎乎的，甚至是肥胖，因为全球快餐业改变了他们的饮食结构。越南富人跟全世界富人一样想要普拉达(Prada)包，新兴中产阶级渴望着一样的崛起象征，而穷人的穷，和其他地方的穷人也是一样。
But these are bromides. Homogenization is in fact far from the whole story. Perhaps it would be truer these days to say that the same thing that people throughout the world want is something different.
但这些都是泛泛之说。事实上均质化绝非全面的概括。这样说也许更贴切一些：今时今日，全世界的人都想要一样东西，那就是与众不同。
If they have the means they want the glass hand-blown, the liquor slow-aged and the fabric hand-sewn. They want something with a distinctive story. They want to know how the pigs behind that succulent ham got their acorns. They want to know how the barrel behind the bourbon was made. They long to demonstrate their knowledge, now so easily acquired, and reveal their particular taste.
如果有可能，他们希望得到的是手工吹制的玻璃杯，陈放多年的美酒，手工缝制的织物。他们希望这些东西有个独一无二的故事。他们想知道被制成这块美味火腿的猪是怎么吃到橡子的。他们想知道这杯波旁威士忌原本所在的桶是如何制成的。他们渴望显露自己的知识——知识的获取在如今何其容易，渴望将自己的独有品味昭告天下。
“Mass” is becoming a problematic word in the global marketplace. Bespoke and crafted and boutique are good words.
在全球市场里，“大众”成了一个惹祸的词。定制、手工、小众是好词。
Better the couple of guys in Denver who start a microbrewery or the former hedge-fund honcho making a superior gin near Edinburgh than the slick marketers of power-branding. Integrity and authenticity are new watchwords. Globalization, it transpires, is also about growing fragmentation. It involves consumer rebellions against being herded by conglomerates toward the same brands in the same malls.
来自丹佛的两个小伙子创办的微酿厂牌，或者某个昔日对冲基金大亨在爱丁堡附近生产的一种上乘金酒，要优于那些包装精致的强力品牌。始终如一和独门正宗成了新的格言。这样一来，全球化同时也意味着日渐加剧的碎片化。消费者曾经被巨型企业赶进同一座购物中心的同一个品牌前，现在他们发起了反抗。
“The same thing young people everywhere want now is originality, something with depth and a story,” said Justin Frizelle, the Singapore-based director of Brand Connect, a company that builds liquor brands in Asia. “It is amazing the fragmentation through the liquor industry in choice and brands, a rebellion against consolidation. Microbreweries have led to microdistilleries. What happened with craft beers is happening with handmade vodkas and slow-aged rums. You have guys in Brooklyn making ryes. It turns out people want something different.”
“如今所有地方的年轻人都想要原创性，有深度、有故事的东西，”品牌通联(Brand Connect)驻新加坡总监贾斯汀·弗里泽尔(Justin Frizelle)说，这家公司在亚洲从事酒品牌塑造。“整个酒业的选择和品牌出现的碎片化十分惊人，一种对统一的反叛。继微酿啤酒之后又有了“微烧”烈酒。之前手工啤酒的情况，如今在手工伏特加和陈放朗姆酒上也都出现了。你能看到布鲁克林有人在做裸麦威士忌。原来人们想要的是不一样的东西。”
These developments are of course problematic for big industrial groups, whose partial answer has been to set up divisions focused on acquiring or developing the handcrafted, small breweries and distilleries able to counter the “mass” image. But consumers of ever greater sophistication may challenge the integrity and authenticity of such products.
这些对大产业集团来说当然都是让人头疼的变化，它们的其中一个对策是设立分支机构，专注于收购或开发手工的、小型的酿酒厂和蒸馏厂，以此来淡化“大众”形象。但是更加老练的消费者可能会质疑这类产品的完整性和正统性。
A successful Vietnamese businessman confided to me that when he receives a gift of a bottle of Johnnie Walker Black Label (surely one of the world’s great blended whiskies) he sends it back because it is insultingly ordinary. What he is looking for is a Gold Label, or a Blue Label, or a Platinum Label (whiskies have come to resemble credit cards and frequent-flyer memberships in their status-conferring labels), or some very distinctive, long-aged single malt.
一个成功的越南商人私下里跟我说，如果有人把尊尼获加黑牌威士忌（Johnnie Walker Black Label，无疑是世上最好的调和威士忌之一）当礼物送给他，他会拒收，因为送这种寻常的酒是一种侮辱。他想要的是金牌或蓝牌，或者铂金牌（威士忌酒标的身份标识，与信用卡和飞行常旅客会员身份有相似之处），或者某种非常独特的、陈年的单一纯麦威士忌。
This in the end is where the Ho Chi Minh trail led: to the familiar and universal quest for status and respect.
这就是胡志明市的最终去向：对地位和尊重的一种相似的、普遍的追寻。