Asia is home to nearly half of the 2 billion Internet users in the world. It makes most of the hardware — laptops, smartphones, tablets and other gadgets — that is used to gain access to the Internet. In countries like South Korea and Japan, it has some of the fastest wired and wireless networks for carrying Internet traffic.
全世界的20亿互联网用户中有将近一半在亚洲。亚洲制造了大部分连接互联网的硬件——笔记本电脑、智能手机、平板电脑和其他设备。韩国和日本等国家拥有一些速度最快的有线和无线网络，用来承载网络流量。
Yet in one aspect of the high-technology economy, Asia still struggles. It has yet to create an Internet company with the global scale of a Google, Facebook or Amazon. A report published Wednesday by the Economist Intelligence Unit, a research outfit affiliated with The Economist magazine, examines some of the possible reasons for this.
但就该高科技经济的某一方面而言，亚洲仍然在艰难奋斗。亚洲还有待创建一个像谷歌(Google)、Facebook或亚马逊(Amazon)这样拥有全球规模的互联网公司。经济学人信息社(Economist Intelligence Unit)在周三发布的一个报告对造成这一状况的原因进行了梳理。经济学人信息社是附属于《经济学人》(The Economist) 杂志的研究机构。
In some cases, the study says, Asian Internet companies have simply been held back by a lack of international ambition. In countries like China or India, domestic markets are so big that expanding abroad has not always been seen as a necessity. Other companies are reluctant to tackle the cultural challenges of operating in the West, according to the report, whose conclusions were reached after interviews with Internet entrepreneurs and others.
该项研究指出，在某些情况下，亚洲的互联网公司因缺乏国际野心而裹足不前。中国和印度等国家的国内市场规模相当大，以至于向国外扩张并不一直被认为是必需的。报告还指出，其他公司不愿应对在西方运营所带来的文化挑战。报告的这些结论是在采访互联网企业家及其他人士后得出的。
But that is starting to change. A new generation of Asian Web companies is seeing rapid cross-border growth — including, in some cases, in the West. These include online messaging services like Line, from Japan, and WeChat, which is owned by a Chinese Internet business, Tencent. Social gaming companies, like GungHo of Japan, have also achieved strong international growth.
但这种情况也在开始改变。新一代的亚洲互联网公司正在见证高速的国际化发展——有时候是在西方。例如几个在线信息服务，如日本的Line和中国互联网公司腾讯的产品微信。社交游戏公司，如日本的GungHo，也取得了强劲的国际发展。
Meanwhile, Alibaba, an e-commerce giant in China, has increasingly international ambitions, and is expected to offer stock to the public soon to finance them. Another Asian e-commerce company, Rakuten of Japan, has moved to expand abroad through acquisitions of companies like PriceMinister of France, and it has adopted English as its official language.
与此同时，中国电商巨头阿里巴巴(Alibaba)的国际野心愈发强烈，并有望在短期内公开发行股票来为其发展计划融资。另一个亚洲电商公司，日本的乐天(Rakuten)，已经通过收购法国PriceMinister公司向海外进军，并把英语作为该公司的官方语言。
Yet these are the exceptions. The study says Asian Internet companies have been hobbled by factors like a lack of trusted online payment systems, a reluctance among Internet users to pay for digital content and restrictions on hiring foreign workers. The report also highlights burdensome regulations, including laws in countries like India and Thailand that make Internet companies responsible for the content posted on their sites.
但这些都是特例。研究报告指出，亚洲的互联网公司一直被一些因素所困，如缺乏值得信任的在线支付系统、互联网用户不愿为数字内容付费、以及针对雇佣外籍员工的限制等。报告还重点对繁琐的法规进行了论述，如印度和泰国等国家要求他们的互联网公司为其网站上的内容负责。
“In many markets around the region, change must begin with a better understanding, on the part of governments, of the specific challenges facing Internet businesses, and a more general recognition of the growth opportunity that online commerce represents,” the authors write.
“对该地区的很多市场来说，政府应更好地理解互联网公司所面临的具体挑战，人们也要更普遍地认识到电子商务所代表的增长机会，这才是改变的基础，”该报告的作者写道。
Asia is not alone in struggling to export home-grown Internet services. If anything, Europe has had an even harder time — despite lesser regulatory, linguistic and cultural hurdles to international expansion.
在出口国内互联网服务这方面艰难奋斗的不只是亚洲。一直以来，欧洲甚至面临更大艰难——尽管欧洲在海外扩张过程中遇到的监管、语言和文化等方面的障碍更少。
The report was sponsored by the Asia Internet Coalition, a group that was formed by five American Internet companies — Google, Facebook, Yahoo, eBay and Salesforce. The Economist Intelligence Unit says it was written independently. But some of the issues that are highlighted – especially the effect of regulation – do mirror the complaints from American Internet entrepreneurs and executives about operating in Asia.
该报告是受到亚洲互联网联盟(Asia Internet Coalition)委托做出的，该联盟由五个美国互联网公司组成的，它们分别是谷歌、Facebook、雅虎(Yahoo)、eBay和Salesforce。经济学人信息社表示，报告是独立完成的。但报告突显的一些问题——特别是监管的影响——确实反映了美国互联网企业家和高管对在亚洲开展业务的不满。
In addition to the well-known restrictions that American Internet companies face in China, where services like Facebook and Twitter are blocked, Silicon Valley giants have also struggled in some other Asian markets. In South Korea, for example, the Internet search business is dominated by two local players, Naver and Daum, and not by Google.
众所周知，美国互联网公司在中国的运营面临着很多限制，如Facebook和Twitter的服务在中国被封，除此之外，硅谷的大公司在其他一些亚洲市场也面临着困难。例如，在韩国，互联网搜索业务被两家本土公司Naver和Daum所主宰，而不是谷歌。
The report makes clear recommendations for stimulating the Internet economy in Asia, urging governments there, for instance, to make regulatory changes to allow efficient online payments systems to develop.
报告对推动亚洲的互联网经济做出了明确建议，例如敦促亚洲各国政府进行监管方面的改革，以发展高效的在线支付系统。
Who would be the main beneficiaries? That is less clear.
但谁将成为主要受益人呢？这一点还不甚清楚。