Yahoo’s core business has been eroding. It’s lost ground in display advertising and in online search, and the Wall Street consensus is that its revenue declined last year.
雅虎(Yahoo)的核心业务一直在衰退。在展示广告和在线搜索业务上它已失去阵地，华尔街的共识是，它去年的收入有所下跌。
When Marissa Mayer, Yahoo’s chief executive, unceremoniously dumped Henrique de Castro, her top lieutenant, on Wednesday, it was an acknowledgment that she had so far failed to turn the company around.
上周三，雅虎首席执行官玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)突然炒掉了自己的得力干将恩里克·德卡斯特罗(Henrique de Castro)，这也是在公开承认，她迄今未能扭转公司的命运。
But no matter: Wall Street greeted the news of Mr. de Castro’s dismissal with a shrug. Regardless of what Ms. Mayer does, the stock market loves Yahoo. Its shares doubled in value last year, outstripping the performance of highflying rivals like Google, AOL and Facebook. How is this feat even remotely possible?
不过没关系，面对德卡斯特罗被解职的消息，华尔街不过是耸了耸肩而已。不管梅耶尔做什么，股市都会对雅虎格外青睐。去年，雅虎的股价翻了一番，比表现出色的对手谷歌(Google)、美国在线(AOL)和Facebook的表现还要好。怎么可能会有如此非凡的表现呢？
Yahoo’s lofty valuation makes sense only if you put its American business aside, and think of the company as an investment in Asia. That’s the way Wall Street sees it. From this perspective, most of Yahoo’s value is found in Japan and, especially, in China, where it has a large stake in the Internet colossus Alibaba.
如果你把雅虎在美国的业务放到一边，把它想成在亚洲的投资，那么对它的估价居高不下，就情有可原了。华尔街就是这么看雅虎的。从这个角度看，你会在日本，尤其是中国发现雅虎的价值所在，在中国，雅虎在互联网巨头阿里巴巴公司占有大量股份。
“In the United States, they are doing the best they can, and I think Marissa Mayer is doing a fine job, but their core business is challenged, to be polite, and it will likely remain that way for some time,” said Victor Anthony, managing director for Internet media at Topeka Capital Markets. “For Yahoo, it’s all about Asia.”
托皮卡资本市场(Topeka Capital Markets)负责互联网媒体业务的执行董事维克托·安东尼(Victor Anthony)说，“在美国，雅虎已达到了它所能做到的最佳表现，我认为玛丽莎·梅耶尔干得不错，可是客气地说，他们的核心业务受到了挑战，而且很可能会在一段时间里维持这种状态。对雅虎来说，亚洲才是重中之重。”
Yahoo’s 24 percent stake in Alibaba, which has been described as a combination of Amazon, eBay and PayPal, with a bit of Google thrown in, accounts for the bulk of the American company’s value, Mr. Anthony calculates. In the United States, Yahoo trades at about $40, and he says he believes that at that price, it still has plenty of room to run.
雅虎持有阿里巴巴24%的股份，据安东尼估计，这对这家美国公司的价值举足轻重。阿里巴巴被形容成亚马逊(Amazon)、eBay和贝宝(PayPal)的混合体，颇有点儿谷歌的意思。在美国，雅虎的股价约为40美元（约合240元人民币），安东尼说，他认为，即使在这样的价位，雅虎股价还是有上升的空间。
“I think Yahoo’s worth $50 to $52 a share,” he said, “but that’s not because of its American operations.” In his estimation, Yahoo’s American core, damaged by sliding advertising revenue and diminished profit margins, is worth only $10 a share.
他说，“我认为，雅虎的股值在50美元到52美元。不过，这和他在美国的业务无关。”据他估计，受广告收入下滑和利润空间减小的影响，雅虎在美国的核心业务在每股中仅占10美元。
On the other hand, its holdings of Alibaba, which is planning an initial public offering that has Wall Street drooling, are worth $30 a share, he said. While that figure is subject to debate, no one questions that it is sizable: Alibaba plays a gargantuan role in China’s Internet economy. This online retailer’s two main shopping sites handled roughly $160 billion in merchandise in 2012, more than eBay and Amazon combined.  Analysts estimate that its eventual I.P.O. could value it at $130 billion to $190 billion.
另一方面，他说，它在阿里巴巴的资产在每股中占30美元，阿里巴巴正计划进行首次公开募股(IPO)，这让华尔街垂涎三尺。虽然这一数字还值得商榷，但没人怀疑这部分业务的可观价值：阿里巴巴是中国互联网经济中的巨无霸。这家网上零售商的两个主要购物站点在2012年经手了约1600亿美元的商品交易，比eBay和亚马逊加起来的还多。分析师估计，最终IPO时，市场对它的估值可能在1300亿美元到1900亿美元之间。
Yahoo’s stake in its Japanese counterpart, Yahoo Japan — which still beats Google in local search — is worth an additional $7 a share to the American company, Mr. Anthony said. The rest of the stock’s value comes from Yahoo share buybacks, which are financed in large part from income derived from the Asian properties, he said.
安东尼说，雅虎在日本的公司雅虎日本(Yahoo Japan)中占有的股份，使美国总公司的股价又提升了7美元。在日本的搜索引擎市场，雅虎日本的表现超出谷歌。他说，雅虎股价的其余价值来自雅虎股票的回购，其中的大部分资金来自雅虎亚洲资产的所得。
While numbers vary somewhat, many people on Wall Street make remarkably similar estimates.
尽管数字有一些出入，华尔街的许多人还是做出了惊人一致的估计。
In a research report last Oct. 16, for example, JPMorgan Chase noted some improvements in Yahoo’s Internet search metrics and in the revamping of categories like sports and weather on its website. Over all, the report said, “the core business remains challenged and we believe the focus for most will remain on the strength in its Asian assets.”
例如，在去年10月16日的一份研究报告中，摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)指出，雅虎的网络搜索指标有一些改进、网站上体育和天气等栏目在改版后也有进步。报告表示，总的来说，“核心业务依然面临挑战，我们认为，重点依然是它在亚洲的资产优势。”
In a similar vein, Brian Wieser, senior analyst at Pivotal Research in New York, said: “It’s sad but you can pretty much forget about Yahoo’s core. I’m afraid it has no future. The Asian holdings, though — that’s another story.”
纽约Pivotal Research公司高级分析师布赖恩·威泽(Brian Wieser)表达了类似的观点，“这令人伤心，不过，你几乎可以忽略不计雅虎的核心业务。恐怕这块业务是没有未来了。不过，它在亚洲的资产就是另一回事了。”
Like many other people who follow Yahoo closely, Mr. Wieser says Ms. Mayer appears to be doing a perfectly fine job. “She’s talented, but it’s just that she’s facing a secular decline in the company’s core advertising business,” he said. Mr. de Castro was supposed to bring new ad revenue to the company. But Mr. Wieser suggests that the failure to do so wasn’t surprising. “I don’t care who runs the company right now,” he said. “They’re not going to be able to reverse that easily.”
和许多密切关注雅虎的其他人一样，威泽说，梅耶尔的工作似乎完美得无懈可击。他说，“她才华横溢，只是她面临着公司核心广告业务的不断下滑而已。”德卡斯特罗本应给公司带来新的广告收入。不过威泽认为，德卡斯特罗的失败也并非意外。他说，“我不在乎目前是谁在掌管公司。谁都无法轻易地扭转困局。”
Fundamentally, he said, Yahoo is suffering from an ailment that afflicts “legacy publishers” of all kinds, including much older ones like newspapers and magazines. Yahoo, the dominant site of bygone days when the words “web portal” were still fashionable, can no longer attract premium display advertising as easily as it could before the rise of Google and sites like Facebook.
他说，从根本上说，雅虎正在承受所有类型的“传统出版商”都染上的病痛，其中包括比雅虎历史悠久得多的出版商，比如报纸和杂志。雅虎在“门户网站”这个词还流行的旧时代，曾经处于主导地位，但面对谷歌和Facebook等网站的崛起，它已经无法再像以前那样轻易地吸引优质的展示广告商了。
Mr. Wieser praised Ms. Mayer’s acquisitions of Internet properties like Tumblr, the blogging service, and her hiring of prominent online talent like Katie Couric, the television host, and David Pogue, former tech writer at The New York Times. “That may all be helpful,” Mr. Wieser said. “But it’s not moving the stock.”
威泽称赞了梅耶尔的一些举动，比如收购博客服务网站Tumblr等互联网资产，以及聘请电视主播凯蒂·库瑞克(Katie Couric)和《纽约时报》前技术专栏作者戴维·波格(David Pogue)等熟稔网络的人才。“这些都可以说不无裨益，”威泽说，“但是不足以提高股价。”
Mark May, a Citi Research analyst, said that while Ms. Mayer had made progress, much of Yahoo’s stock market strength resulted from prescient investments by Jerry Yang, a Yahoo co-founder who stepped down from his leadership positions at the company in 2012. He made Yahoo an early financier of both Yahoo Japan and Alibaba and fought off repeated efforts by the Chinese company to buy out Yahoo’s stake.
花旗研究(Citi Research)的分析师马克·梅(Mark May)表示，虽然梅耶尔有所建树，但是雅虎股票之所以走强，是因为已于2012年离开公司领导职务的联合创始人杨致远(Jerry Yang)的先见之明。他让雅虎成为了雅虎日本和阿里巴巴的早期投资者，并且挫败了阿里巴巴的多次回购企图。
“That’s much of the value of Yahoo now,” Mr. May said.
“这就是雅虎当前的大部分价值所在，”梅说。
Mr. Anthony of Topeka Capital Markets added: “Marissa Mayer is really extremely lucky. She inherited many problems, of course, but she’s still got those incredible Asian assets. And that’s keeping the stock strong today.”
托皮卡资本市场的安东尼还表示：“玛丽莎·梅耶尔的确是特别幸运。当然了，她接手了很多问题，但她仍然得到了很棒的亚洲资产。而正是这些资产让今天的股价处在高位。”