Against a background rattling of sabers, Asian air force chiefs are likely to be taking a more covetous look than usual at the military hardware on display at this week’s Singapore Airshow.
在各方剑拔弩张之际，亚洲国家的空军统帅们在本周的新加坡航展(Singapore Airshow)上，可能会比以往更渴望看到展出的军事装备。
In the past few months, muscle-flexing by China has led to confrontations with the Philippines, South Korea and Japan in contested waters of the South and East China Seas.
在过去几个月中，中国炫耀武力的举动，致使中国与菲律宾、韩国及日本在南海和东海的争议水域产生了对抗。
In November, China unilaterally declared an air defense zone for an area of the East China Sea containing a group of islands known as the Senkaku in Japanese, and the Diaoyu in Chinese, that Japan has controlled for decades; and in an area over a submerged reef called Ieodo in South Korea and Suyan Rock in China, that is controlled by South Korea.
去年11月，中国单方面宣布设立东海防空识别区，该识别区覆盖了由日本实际控制数十年的岛屿，日本称其为尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)，中国称作钓鱼岛及其附属岛屿；并覆盖了由韩国控制的一座暗礁，韩国称其为离於岛(Ieodo)，中国称之为苏岩礁。
Japan already operated its own air defense zone over the Senkaku Islands. Korea, in response to the Chinese move, said in December that it was expanding its air patrol zone in the disputed areas.
日本已经将尖阁诸岛纳入自己的防空识别区，以此回应中国的举动。日本在去年12月表示，该国将扩大在争议区域的空中巡逻区。
Meanwhile, Chinese and Philippine ships have been playing cat and mouse through much of the past year in the waters around the disputed Spratly Islands in the South China Sea.
与此同时，在过去一年的大部分时间里，中国和菲律宾的船只一直在南海争议岛屿南沙群岛附近玩猫捉老鼠的把戏。
At stake is more than national pride and geopolitical assertiveness. The contested seabeds are believed to hold extensive reserves of oil and natural gas.
但这场角逐中，除了民族自豪感和地缘政治野心之外，还有更重要的因素。据信，争议海床拥有丰富的石油和天然气资源。
Still, if the case for building air surveillance and defense capabilities is strong, financial pressures on emerging market economies mean that defense ministries in the region must cope with tight budgets. Maximum bang for the buck is the order of the day.
然而，尽管增强空中侦察和防御力量的理由非常充分，但由于新兴市场经济体面临着财政压力，这些国家的国防部必须靠紧缩的预算度日，大家都会努力把钱花在刀刃上。
A broad range of fighter and maritime surveillance aircraft is competing for sales to Asian governments. One leading contender is Lockheed Martin’s new F-35 Lightning II, the product of the Joint Strike Fighter cooperative program that started in 1996. Since its plane’s introduction in 2001, Lockheed Martin has delivered some 100 F-35s. The United States Marine Corps is scheduled to start deploying a short takeoff and vertical landing version in 2015, though recent reports say this may be delayed by software maintenance and reliability problems.
亚洲国家的政府成为了各种战斗机和海上侦察机的推销对象。一个主要的竞争者是洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockheed Martin)的新机型，F–35“闪电”II(F–35 Lightning II)战机，这是始于1996年的“联合打击战斗机”(Joint Strike Fighter)合作项目的产物。自2001年推出这款战机以来，洛克希德·马丁公司已经交付了大约100架F–35战机。美国海军陆战队(United States Marine Corps)计划从2015年开始部署一款短距起降型战机，但最近的报告称该计划可能会因为软件维护和可靠性问题而推迟。
Richard L. Aboulafia, a commercial and military aviation analyst at the Teal Group, in Fairfax, Va., puts the stealthy, technically advanced F-35 in a class of its own, describing it as “the only fifth-generation fighter program on the world market.” It is, he says, a generation more advanced than possible rivals such as Boeing’s F-15 Eagle and F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, the Eurofighter Typhoon, the Dassault Rafale, the Saab Gripen, or Russian and Chinese counterparts.
弗吉尼亚州费尔法克斯的蒂尔集团(Teal Group)的民用及军用航空分析师理查德·L·阿布拉菲亚(Richard L. Aboulafia)称，技术先进的F–35隐形战斗机独一无二，是“全球市场上唯一的第五代战斗机项目”。他表示，比波音(Boeing) F–15“鹰式”(Eagle)战斗机、F/A–18E/F“超级大黄蜂”(Super Hornet)战斗机、欧洲战机公司(Eurofighter)的“台风”(Typhoon)战斗机、达索(Dassault)“阵风”(Rafale)战斗机、萨博(Saab)“鹰狮”(Gripen)战斗机，以及俄罗斯和中国的战斗机，都先进一代。
The F-35 program, however, is 70 percent over initial cost estimates and years behind schedule. It was roundly criticized last month by the Pentagon’s procurement chief, J. Michael Gilmore.
但F–35战机项目的费用已经比最初的成本估算多了70%，时间也比预期晚了几年。上个月，五角大楼采购主管J·迈克尔·吉尔摩(J. Michael Gilmore)对此提出了严厉批评。
Still, Japan has said it intends to acquire 42 of the Lockheed Martin fighters, with the first four to be delivered by 2017. South Korea also has plans to buy 40, for delivery in 2018 to 2021, though a senior South Korean official said last month that further program delays would be “problematic.”
然而，日本已经表示，该国计划购买洛克希德·马丁公司的42架战机，首批四架战机将于2017年交货。韩国也计划购买40架战机，定于2018年至2021年之间交付，但一名韩国高官上个月表示，项目的进一步推迟会“带来问题”。
Australia, a partner in the program, plans to take about 100 aircraft.
项目合作伙伴澳大利亚计划购买大约100架飞机。
For potential buyers who are not members of the program partnership, however, there are significant negatives, said Alexandra Ashbourne-Walmsley, a military analyst and director of Ashbourne Strategic Consulting, in London.
然而，伦敦阿什伯恩战略咨询公司(Ashbourne Strategic Consulting)董事、军事分析师亚历山德拉·阿什伯恩-沃姆斯利(Alexandra Ashbourne-Walmsley)表示，对于没有参加该项目的潜在买家来说，消极因素极大。
Export customers “will essentially receive a sealed box for a very high price,” she said, since the United States is unlikely to supply the sensitive classified source codes for the F-35’s advanced weapons and radar systems.
她表示，出口客户“实质上会以极高的价格获得一个密封的盒子”，因为美国不大可能提供F–35先进的武器和雷达系统中十分敏感的机密源代码。
While “the F-35 is clearly the most advanced manned fighter jet in production,” Ms. Ashbourne added, “the downside is that it is likely to be unavailable to countries not already F-35 program partners before the mid-2020s.”
虽然“F–35战机无疑是在产的最先进的载人战斗机，”阿什伯恩补充说，“但问题在于，非项目合作国可能无法在2015年前获得F–35战机。”
Boeing, meanwhile, is continuing to promote its long-serving F-15 — with production assured through 2018 — and its Super Hornet, operational since 1999. Boeing has orders for the Super Hornet through 2016 and has been wooing Malaysia as a potential buyer.
与此同时，波音(Boeing)将继续推销长期服役的F–15战机——这款战斗机的生产可以确保持续到2018年，以及自1999年投入使用的超级大黄蜂战机。波音的大黄蜂订单已经排到2016年底，该公司也一直在争取马来西亚这个潜在的买主。
Among other fighter offerings, the Rafale, from the French group Dassault, has met with little export success over the past 20 years, but it has a potential order for 126 planes from India, which could be signed in April. Of those, 108 would be built in India, but disagreements remain between the Indian government and Dassault over quality assurance and performance guarantees.
在其他战斗机产品中，出自法国达索集团(Dassault)的“阵风”(Rafale)战斗机在过去20年里几乎没有在出口领域取得过什么成绩，但该公司有望从印度得到126架飞机的订单，协议预计将于今年4月签订。这些飞机中会有108架在印度建造，但印度政府和达索之间对于质量和性能保障仍然存在分歧。
Eurofighter’s Typhoon has also had limited recent export success. At the end of last year, its production line was assured only through 2018.
欧洲战机公司(Eurofighter)的“台风”(Typhoon)战斗机近年来的出口也颇为有限。去年年底的估计，其生产线运行只能维持到2018年。
Sweden’s Saab Gripen NG, the latest upgrade model in that program, recently signed a deal to sell 36 fighters to Brazil, a choice by the Brazilian government that Mr. Aboulafia described as highly rational, on three grounds.
瑞典萨博(Saab)最近签署了一项协议，向巴西出售36架“鹰狮NG”(Gripen NG)战斗机。鹰狮NG是该项目中最新的升级型号，阿布拉菲亚形容巴西政府的选择十分理智，原因有三个。
First, “the world fighter market is quite cost-sensitive,” he said. “Second, Brazil faces no major strategic threats. The rest of South America consists of friendly nations or basket cases and the Brazilian Air Force needs only to control drug traffic and the Amazon Basin.”
首先，“世界战斗机市场对成本相当敏感，”他说。“其次，巴西并没有面对重大的战略威胁。南美洲其他地区要么是友好国家，要么一穷二白，而巴西空军只需要打击毒品走私，控制亚马孙盆地。”
“Third, the Brazilian economy is in grim shape, and Gripen NG’s operating costs are about one half of the F/A-18’s,” Mr. Aboulafia said.
“第三，巴西经济形势严峻，而鹰狮NG的运行成本只有F/A–18的一半左右，”阿布拉菲亚说。
Chasing more orders after its Brazilian deal, Saab opened an Asia-Pacific office in Bangkok in September. In 2008 it sold 12 earlier versions of the Gripen to the Royal Thai Air Force, along with two Saab 340 AEW surveillance aircraft and an integrated defense system.
在与巴西签订协议后，萨博为了取得更多订单，于去年9月在曼谷开设了亚太办公室。在2008年，萨博曾向泰国空军售出12架较早版本的鹰狮战斗机、两架萨博340 AEW侦察机和一套集成防御系统。
In a telephone interview last month, Lennart Sindahl, the head of Saab’s aeronautics business group, emphasized the Gripen NG’s relatively low purchase cost and highly competitive operating expenses.
上个月接受电话采访时，萨博航空业务部门负责人伦纳特·辛达尔(Lennart Sindahl)强调，鹰狮NG的采购成本相对低廉，而且运行成本也有极大的优势。
Mr. Sindahl also said that his company was exploring a possible Sea Gripen variant that could be capable of operations from small aircraft carriers, building on the existing aircraft’s short-airfield capability.
辛达尔(Sindahl)还说，该公司正在研究一个称为“海上鹰狮”(Sea Gripen)的可能型号，根据现有型号在短跑道上起降的能力，开发可以在较小的航空母舰上起降的机型。
Mr. Aboulafia, of the Teal Group, said a new working relationship between Saab and Embraer of Brazil, in the context of the Brazilian Gripen deal, was “another intriguing development.” Embraer’s role “as a kind of co-prime contractor” for the Gripen NG program could be the seed of a wider collaboration, he suggested.
蒂尔集团的阿布拉菲亚说，关于巴西购买鹰狮的协议，萨博与巴西航空工业公司(Embraer)之间的合作关系，“是另一个引人遐想的动作。”他提到，巴航工业在鹰狮NG项目中“类似于一个高级共同承包商”的角色，可能意味着将来会有更广泛的合作。
Embraer itself will also be at the Singapore show. The company is developing its KC-390 medium-lift twin-jet transport, now starting prototype production, though no prototype is yet flying.
巴航工业本身也会参加新加坡航展。这家公司正在研发KC–390中型双发动机喷气运输机，现在已经开始生产原型，不过尚没有原型试飞。
Jackson Schneider, president of Embraer’s defense and security unit, said that Indonesia had bought 16 of its A-29 Super Tucano light attack and reconnaissance turboprops, a plane that, like the Gripen, fits advanced electronics to a low-cost airframe.
巴航工业防务和安全部门总裁杰克逊·施耐德(Jackson Schneider)透露，印度尼西亚已经购买了16架该公司的A–29“超级巨嘴鸟”(Super Tucano)涡轮螺旋桨轻型攻击侦察机，这款飞机也和“鹰狮”一样，在低成本的机身上安装了先进的电子设备。
Boeing, meanwhile, will be showing its P-8, a maritime surveillance version of the ubiquitous 737-800 commercial transport plane, which recently entered service with the United States Navy. India has already ordered eight of the planes.
同时，波音(Boeing)将展出其P–8海上侦察机，它是随处可见的737–800民用运输机的另一版本，这款侦察机刚刚在美国海军服役。印度已经订购了八架这款飞机。
In November, Boeing also announced a new, lower-cost maritime surveillance aircraft program, known as the MSA. Based on the Bombardier Challenger 605 business jet, it is fitted out with P-8 and AWACS-based surveillance systems. The MSA is being presented to potential buyers this year.
去年11月，波音还公布了研发一款新型的低成本海上侦察机的计划，该机型称为MSA。这种飞机会以庞巴迪(Bombardier)“挑战者605”(Challenger 605)商务喷气机为基础，装入基于P–8和AWACS的监控系统。今年波音将向潜在买家展示MSA飞机。
In 2001, Japan opted to buy Boeing’s KC-767 aerial refueling tanker, signing a contract for four in 2003. They could, for example, be used to refuel the short takeoff, vertical landing variant of the F-35 that might be operable from helicopter carriers — diplomatically never described as aircraft carriers — being built by the Japanese Navy.
2001年，日本决定购买波音KC–767空中加油机，并于2003年签订合同。举例来说，这些飞机能够为F–35飞机的一种可以短程起飞、垂直着陆的版本进行加油。这种飞机或许可以在日本海上自卫队正在建造的直升机航母上起降——然而基于宣传策略日本从不称其为航空母舰。
Airbus meanwhile has sold five A330 MRTT tanker/transports to Australia, and India has listed Airbus as a “preferred bidder” for a six-plane tanker procurement deal. The Airbus A400M transport, too, will soon be flying in the region, with four bought by Malaysia that are due for delivery in 2015 and 2016.
与此同时，空中客车(Airbus)向澳大利亚出售了五架A330 MRTT加油/运输机，印度在采购六架加油机的招标中，也将空中客车列为了“优先投标者”。空客A400M运输机很快也会飞翔在这个地区，马来西亚订购了四架这款飞机，将在2015年和2016年交货。