SINGAPORE — Young Asian universities are outdoing their young western counterparts in research and teaching, but established education powerhouses in the United States and Europe continue to dominate academia at the highest levels, according to the educational consulting firm Quacquarelli Symonds.
新加坡——教育咨询公司Quacquarelli Symonds的数据显示，在研究和教学方面，成立不久的亚洲大学正在超越西方的年轻学校，但美国和欧洲的老牌教育机构依然在学术界的最高层次占据主导地位。
In the firm’s annual listing of the World’s Top 50 Universities under 50, published last week, the five top spots were taken by Asian universities. The list aims to rank the best universities established in the past half-century.
在该公司上周发布的世界创校时间未满50年的50所顶尖大学的名单中，前五名均由亚洲的大学把持。每年发布一次的该名单，旨在对此前半个世纪成立的最好的大学进行排名。
Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, second in the past two editions, overtook Hong Kong University of Science and Technology to secure the top spot. The Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and Pohang University of Science and Technology, another Korean institution, were third and fourth, with City University of Hong Kong placed fifth.
在过去两次的排名中均居第二的新加坡南洋理工大学（Nanyang Technological University，简称 N.T.U.）超过香港科技大学，拔得头筹。韩国科学技术院(Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology)和韩国另外一所大学浦项科技大学(Pohang University of Science and Technology)分列第三和第四，香港城市大学(City University of Hong Kong)位居第五。
The president of N.T.U., Bertil Andersson, says that Asian universities are slowly catching up on the more established institutions in the global charts. “This shows that Asia is set to become the future global powerhouse of higher education and research,” he said.
新加坡南洋理工校长伯蒂尔·安德森(Bertil Andersson)表示，从全球情况看，亚洲大学正在缓慢追赶全球更成熟的教育机构。“这表明，亚洲即将成为未来全球高等教育和研究的重要力量，”他说。
Still, in Quacquarelli Symonds’s overall World UniversityRankings released two weeks earlier, N.T.U. came in just 39th.
然而，在Quacquarelli Symonds两周前发布的总榜世界大学排名(World University Rankings)中，新加坡南洋理工仅名列第39位。
Of the top 10 in the overall World University Rankings, which aim to compare the best of the best, six were from the United States, including the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which retained its top spot from last year. The other four were from Britain, including the University of Cambridge, in second, and Imperial College, London, in third.
世界大学排名总榜意在对顶尖学校进行强强对比，其中排名前十的大学中有六所来自美国，包括蝉联第一的麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)。另外有四所来自英国，包括排名第二的剑桥大学(University of Cambridge)，和排名第三的伦敦帝国理工学院(Imperial College, London)。
No Asian universities made it into the top 20; National University of Singapore placed highest, at 22nd.
亚洲没有大学入围前二十，排名最高的新加坡国立大学(National University of Singapore)名列第22位。
Quacquarelli Symonds, based in London, bases its assessments on several criteria. Research clout, employer reputation and academic reputation heavily weighted, which often benefit older and more established institutions.
总部位于伦敦的Quacquarelli Symonds的评估是基于多项标准。研究影响力、雇主声誉、学术声望占据了很大比重，这些标准通常有利于创立时间更久远、更成熟的机构。