Asian universities are beginning to do what has long been practiced in the West: offer short courses specifically for women who are leaders in business and politics.
亚洲大学开始效仿西方大学长久以来的做法：专门为政商界女性领袖提供短期课程。
While the business schools at Harvard, Oxford, Stanford and others have established courses for female executives, such offerings are just starting to make their mark in Asia.
虽然哈佛大学(Harvard)、牛津大学(Oxford)、斯坦福大学(Stanford)等大学商学院已经开设了针对女性高管们的课程，但在亚洲这样的做法才刚开始出现。
Last month, the University of Hong Kong held the first part of a course meant to prepare Asian women for the boardroom: The Women’s Directorship Program. 
上个月，香港大学(University of Hong Kong)开设的女性董事项目(The Women’s Directorship Program)课程已完成第一阶段授课，该课程为希望跻身公司董事会的亚洲女性量身打造。
Offering a certificate upon completion, the program is sponsored in part by the executive search firm Harvey Nash and had the first of two three-day sessions in April. Another is planned for June. Participation costs $10,000, and the course covers strategic leadership, stock exchange regulations, conflict resolution and ethics.
该项目由猎头公司瀚纳仕(Harvey Nash)提供部分赞助，在结业后提供证书。课程分为两个阶段，每个阶段为期三天。4月份已经完成了第一阶段课程，第二阶段课程计划在6月开设。项目费用为1万美元，课程内容涵盖战略领导力、股票交易法规、冲突处理以及伦理道德。
Amy Lau, director of both the university’s business school and its executive education program, said there would be several short courses focused on potential board directors in Asia. “We have decided that this first one should focus on women because there is currently a shortage of women on the boards,” she said. “This program aims to address the imbalance in boardrooms.”
香港大学商学院及经理人教育项目主任刘卢希龄(Amy Lau)表示，对于那些希望进入公司董事会的亚洲高管，该校将有针对性地开展几个短期精品课程。“针对目前企业的女性董事不足的问题，我们决定第一个课程将专门为女性开设，”她说，“该课程的目的是改善董事会男女比例失衡的现状。”
Dr. Lau said that women have often felt tied down by family commitments. “Even now,” she said, “some are not sure if they are suitable for directorships, even though they have served in senior executive positions. Often, they are less inclined to put themselves forward.”
刘博士说，女性往往觉得被家庭责任所束缚。“即使是现在，”她说，“就算她们已经坐上了高管的位置，其中一些人也不确定自己是否适合担任董事职位。通常情况下，女性不太愿意去争取更高的位置。”
Fifteen senior executives from various sectors, including finance, logistics and telecommunications, attended the course as students. Ruth Rowan, the marketing director for Asia, the Middle East and Africa for BT Group, described it as an eye-opener.
来自金融、物流和电信等行业的15名高级主管报名参加了此次课程。英国电信集团(BT Group) 亚洲、中东及非洲地区营销总监露丝·罗万(Ruth Rowan)称，课程让她大开眼界。
“There was a huge amount to learn from each other, as well as the speakers,” she said. “I have always worked in industries where men are definitely in the majority, so I was intrigued to see how a course solely for female executives would work,” she added.
“从每位学员以及讲课嘉宾身上能学到很多东西，”她说。“我所从事过的行业绝对由男性占据主导地位，所以我很想知道一个只为女性主管开设的课程会有什么样的效果，”她补充说。
“There is clearly still an issue in most organizations that women are not represented proportionally, particularly in more senior roles,” Ms. Rowan said.
“在大多数机构，女性比例不足的问题还很明显，尤其是在管理层，”罗万说。
The curriculum, which includes case studies, is taught by lecturers from the university’s faculty of business and economics, plus industry leaders like Rick Haythornthwaite, the chairman of MasterCard, and Umran Beba, the Asia-Pacific regional president of Pepsi.
本课程的讲师既包括了香港大学商学和经济学的教师，也有诸如万事达(MasterCard)董事长里克·哈森维特(Rick Haythornthwaite)和百事(Pepsi)亚太地区总裁乌姆兰·贝巴(Umran Beba)这样的商界领袖。课程包括案例分析部分。
But of the 21 professors and speakers listed on the Web site of the Women’s Directorship Program, only five are women, meaning that three-quarters of the instructors are male.
不过在该课程网站上列出的21位授课教授和讲课嘉宾中，只有五位女性，这意味着有四分之三的教员为男性。
“Most of the directors invited are men but we would like to show that there are a few women serving in leadership positions in top corporations and that these positions are achievable for our students,” Dr. Lau said. “It is also a reflection of the situation now. There are not many women leaders in the boardrooms,” she added.
“大多数受邀的讲课嘉宾是男性董事，但我们希望让学员了解顶级公司的董事会中也有女性，并且成为公司董事对我们的学员而言是可以实现的，”刘博士说，“这也反映了当前的现状，在企业董事会里女性为数不多。”
She is hopeful that “in the next few years,” the university can invite more women to speak.
她认为，香港大学有希望在“今后几年”邀请到更多的女性讲课嘉宾。
Anne Parkin, a director at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong and a student in the program, said, “It is attractive to join a group of women executives from diverse backgrounds and exchange with them the various challenges facing executives of both genders.”
瑞信(Credit Suisse)驻香港的一位主管安妮·帕金(Anne Parkin)也是该课程的学员，她说：“和来自不同领域的女性主管们交流男女主管们面临的各种挑战，是非常有意思的。”
She added: “The community will certainly benefit from having access to a pool of female leaders who can easily move proactively into leadership roles.”
她补充道：“让一批女性主管轻松并积极地转换为领导角色，商界肯定会从中受益。”
The University of Hong Kong is planning for the second installment of the corporate directorship program, which is expected to run early next year.
香港大学正在筹划第二期企业董事项目课程，预计将在明年年初开设。
Women represent less than 6 percent of all boardrooms across Asia, according to a 2012 study by McKinsey, the management consulting firm. The proportion of seats on corporate boards occupied by women is 17 percent in Europe and 15 percent in the United States.
根据管理咨询公司麦肯锡(McKinsey)2012年的一项研究，在亚洲，企业董事会中女性比例不到6%，而在欧洲和美国，这一比例分别达到17%和15%。
Other Asian universities have also started offering short courses for female leaders.
亚洲其他大学也开始为女性高管提供短期课程。
Madeleine K. Albright, the first woman to serve as U.S. secretary of state, will be the keynote speaker at a two-week program in Beijing from June 5 to June 15. She will also teach a master class for the “Empowering Women for Leadership: Challenges of an Urban Future” program, an initiative of the Albright Institute for Global Affairs at Wellesley College, a women’s liberal arts college in Massachusetts. Participants will include undergraduates from both Yuanpei College at Peking University in Beijing and Wellesley.
美国历史上的首位女国务卿马德琳·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine K. Albright)将作为主题发言人参加在京举办的一个女性项目课程，该项目从6月5日开始，6月15日结束，为期两周。同时，她也将为韦尔斯利学院(Wellesley College)奥尔布赖特国际事务学院(Albright Institute for Global Affairs)的“让女性当领导：城市未来的挑战”项目(Empowering Women for Leadership: Challenges of an Urban Future)教授一门硕士课程。韦尔斯利学院是马萨诸塞州的一所女子文科学院。学员包括来自北京大学元培学院和韦尔斯利大学的本科生。
In 2011, Ewha Womans University in Seoul began a program for female leaders currently working in nonprofit and nongovernmental organizations. The next session, from July 3 to July 16, will include 26 women from 25 countries.
2011年，首尔的梨花女子大学(Ewha Womans University)为目前在非盈利和非政府机构工作的女性主管开设了一个项目。第二轮课程将在7月3日到7月16日举办，届时将有来自25个国家的26位女士参加。
The Peking University program is free for enrolled students, while Ewha provides funding to cover some of the participants’ tuition fees.
北京大学的这个女性领导力课程对所有在校生免费开放，而梨花女子大学为一部分参与者提供学费资助。
The Indian Institute of Management Bangalore established the India- Women in Leadership program for aspiring politicians last year. The 10-week certificate course includes model Parliament simulations and field assignments. It cost 475,000 Indian rupees, or about $8,660.
印度班加罗尔管理学院(Indian Institute of Management Bangalore)去年为希望晋升的女性从政者开设了印度女性领导力(India-Women in Leadership)项目。为期10周的证书课程包含进行议会模拟和实地作业，学费47.5万印度卢比，约合8660美元。
M.V. Rajeev Gowda, program coordinator and head of the Center for Public Policy at the Indian institute, said that the institute hoped to offer the program again this year with 50 to 100 students.
项目协调员兼学院公共政策中心主任拉杰夫·高达(M.V. Rajeev Gowda)说，学院希望今年再办一次该课程，招收50至100名学生。
The National University of Singapore is also bringing executives into the classroom by offering its first Women in Leadership program Nov. 18 to Nov. 22. The weeklong course will cost 7,680 Singaporean dollars, or about $6,140.
新加坡国立大学(National University of Singapore)也将在11月18日到22日开设第一届女性领导力(Women in Leadership)项目课程，招收高管学员。该课程为期一周，学费为7680新加坡元，约合6140美元。
“We recognize the need to develop a pipeline of middle- to senior-level women business leaders,” said the program’s director, Vivien Lim.
“我们意识到为企业培养中高层女性领袖的必要性，”项目主管林金玉(Vivien Lim)说。
The program will be taught by lecturers from the university’s business school, industry experts and leadership coaches. Besides teaching the usual business and management subjects, it will explore issues that affect women more in the workplace, like time management and achieving a work-life balance. And while the program’s focus is on women, it welcomes male professionals as well.
这一课程将由该校商学院教师、行业专家和领导力教练授课。除了一般的商业和管理科目，课堂还会扩展到工作中对女性有更大影响的方面，如时间管理和平衡生活与工作等。虽然该项目是针对女性的，但也欢迎职场男性。
The growing scope of these programs in Asia reflect “the growth and challenges that Asia economies have faced in recent years,” Dr. Lim said. “Given the talent shortage, organizations have come to realize that women provide a ready pool of talent and more can be done to harness this reserve of talents.”
这些课程在亚洲的兴起反映了“近年来亚洲经济的高速增长和所面临的挑战，”林博士说：“由于人才紧缺，企业逐渐意识到女性已经提供了一个可用的人才库，应该采取更多行动发掘女性人才的能量。”
Win Bischoff, the chairman of Lloyds Banking Group who has just announced his retirement and who is one of the speakers at the University of Hong Kong program, said that companies were slowly recognizing the importance of having women in boardrooms. “In my experience, women bring a new perspective to issues in business,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions. “They bring a different skill set to the boardroom, which affects the decision-making of companies for the better.”
刚宣布即将退休的劳埃德银行集团(Lloyds Banking Group)董事长温·比肖夫(Win Bischoff)也是香港大学女性董事项目课程的讲课嘉宾之一。他说，企业正在慢慢认识到董事会里女性成员的重要性。“在我看来，女性能为企业面临的问题带来新的视角，”他在邮件中回复记者的问题时称。“他们为董事会带来了不同的专长，从正面影响公司的决策。”
Teresa Ko, China chairman of the law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, wrote in an e-mail that now was the time for change. “For too long we have struggled to promote gender diversity in the boardrooms,” she said.
富而德律师事务所(Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer)中国办事处主席高育贤(Teresa Ko)在一封邮件中表示，现在是进行变革的时候了。“我们为促进企业董事会性别多样化努力了很久，”她说。
Ms. Ko, one of the speakers at the University of Hong Kong program, said that these courses would encourage women to put themselves forward for board-level positions. “Over time, it will result in a pool of board-ready female leaders helping to alter the dynamics of boardrooms across the globe,” she said.
高女士也是香港大学女性董事项目课程的讲课嘉宾。她说，这些课程能鼓励女性主动争取董事级别的职位。“长此以往，这将会帮助培养大批潜在女性董事，有助于改变世界各地企业董事会的格局，”她说。