HONG KONG — South and Southeast Asia are being buffeted by broad shifts in international economics, but with Japan and China to the north largely unaffected, fears of a more widespread crisis are being played down.
香港——国际经济的大变化冲击了南亚及东南亚地区，但该区域以北的日本和中国基本未受影响，这渐渐平息了对于更大范围危机的恐慌。
The most affected large economies have been those of India and Indonesia, two countries where many domestic and foreign investors are now rushing for the exits, exchanging local currencies for dollars. After months of decline, both countries’ currencies dropped further on Thursday, with the Indonesian rupiah and the Indian rupee falling about 2 percent before recovering some of their losses.
印度和印度尼西亚成为该地区受影响最深的大型经济体。两国的国内外投资者纷纷将当地货币兑换成美元，慌张撤出。经过数月贬值后，两国的货币在周四进一步走低，印尼盾和印度卢比当日在有所回升之后，最终贬值2%左右。
Some Asian business leaders say they still hope the region can escape largely unscathed from the broader troubles afflicting emerging markets this summer. Sofjan Wanandi, the tycoon who is the longtime chairman of the Indonesian Employers’ Association, said in a telephone interview on Thursday that he believed Indonesia’s currency troubles were a result of a temporary failure by the government to formulate a response and communicate it clearly.
一些亚洲商业领导者表示，他们依旧希望该地区能从今年夏天让新兴市场饱受折磨的危机中基本做到全身而退。长期担任印尼企业家协会(the Indonesian Employers’ Association)主席的商业巨头林绵坤(Sofjan Wanandi)在周四进行的电话采访中表示，他认为印尼货币问题仅仅是由于政府暂时对策不利、沟通不畅造成的。
“We know the economy is O.K., but the government is not taking quick action,” he said, adding that he and other business leaders were working with the government on a policy statement to be issued on Friday. “After that, we hope this will all be calmed down,” he said.
“我们知道经济状况还好，但政府没有迅速行动，”他说道，并补充说他和其他商业领导者正在和政府一道努力，准备在周五发表一个政策声明。“之后，我们希望局面能平静下来，”他说。
The currencies of Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand also declined, although by less than 1 percent. Stock markets across most of the region fell on Thursday, but share prices rebounded slightly in India after days of decline there.
马来西亚、菲律宾和泰国的货币也有所贬值，只是幅度不到1%。该地区各国的股市周四均走低，但在连续下跌几天之后，印度股市略有反弹。
At this point, fears of a continent-wide crisis, like in 1997, have been minimized. But economists are still cautious. “Between the two countries, Indonesia has a far better balance of economic growth and a greater chance of revival,” HSBC, referring to India and Indonesia, said on Wednesday in a research report that cautioned investors against buying Indian government bonds.
至此，对于这次危机发展成像1997年那样横扫全亚洲的担心渐渐减小。但经济学家仍持谨慎态度。“这两国相比较，印尼的经济增长一直比较平衡，因而复苏的可能性更大，”汇丰银行周三发布的一份研究报告这样讲到印度和印尼，并提醒投资者不要购买印度政府的债券。
Largely unaffected on Thursday and in recent weeks have been the currencies of Asia’s two largest economies, China and Japan. The Japanese yen has been little changed over the last month, despite weakening marginally this week, and the value of the Chinese renminbi, heavily managed by China’s central bank, has stayed flat as well. Both countries have begun economic stimulus programs in recent months, although they have done so with very different styles.
在周四与过去几周，亚洲两个最大经济体，中国和日本的货币基本没有受到什么影响。日元尽管在上周稍显弱势，但在过去一个月里变化不大；人民币受中国人民银行的大力操控，没有起伏。两国都在近几个月实施了刺激计划，当然风格截然不同。
China’s stock market has even posted a small rally this month on signs that an economic slowdown may be less severe than expected this autumn, although worries persist about next year.
中国的股市本月甚至出现了一个小反弹，表明今秋的经济颓势可能不像预计的那么严重，但人们对于明年的经济前景仍有担忧。
The preliminary purchasing managers’ index in China, compiled by the research firm Markit and released by the British bank HSBC on Thursday, showed a swing to expansion from contraction in August. The increase, to a four-month high, easily beat analysts’ expectations.
由Markit研究公司汇总，英国汇丰银行周四发布的中国采购经理人指数（purchasing managers’ index，简称PMI）初值自8月份出现收缩以来开始止跌回升，升至4个月以来最高点，远超分析家的预期。
HSBC’s preliminary survey offers one of the earliest indications each month of how the Chinese economy is doing, and Thursday’s reading is likely to solidify expectations that a stabilization that began to show in July has continued into August.
汇丰银行的初值调查是每个月中国经济状况最早的晴雨表之一，而周四发布的指数很可能强化了之前对于经济稳定状况将从7月持续至8月的预判。
The reading “adds to the number of green shoots indicating a stabilizing economy since July,” Li Wei and Stephen Green, economists at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note, adding that government-led measures aimed at shoring up economic growth, like tax breaks for small businesses and efforts to speed up railway construction, appeared to have begun to take effect.
相关数据“成为表明经济自7月以来开始企稳的又一良好信号”，渣打银行经济学家李炜和王志浩(Stephen Green)在报告中写到，并补充政府主导的支持经济发展的举措，如对小企业减税及加快铁路建设，似乎开始收效。
After years of double-digit expansion rates, the economy has now settled into a slower pace of growth of around 7.5 percent this year. And despite Thursday’s unexpectedly strong survey results, some analysts said the picture could well cloud again next year.
在历经多年两位数的经济增长后，增长已经稳定在较低的7.5%左右。尽管周四的调查结果出人意料的强劲，一些分析家认为明年可能还会出现令人担忧的情况。
Indonesia and other countries in Southeast Asia have been hurt by their dependence on slower-growing China. They have also been hit by China’s gradual shift away from industries dependent on commodity imports from Asian neighbors, like steel production, and toward service industries.
印尼和其他东南亚国家一直依赖中国，而中国经济放缓使它们遭受损失。中国逐渐从依靠亚洲邻国大宗商品进口的工业，如钢铁生产，转向服务业，这也打击了该地区。
With chronic trade deficits and a dependence on foreign investment, Indonesia and particularly India have faced the biggest problems in the region. The government of India has resorted to increasingly desperate measures in the last two weeks, like steeply raising taxes on imports of silver and gold, but it has been unable to halt the decline of the rupee, which is down more than 7 percent in August and more than 20 percent since the start of May.
由于长期以来存在贸易赤字，且依赖于国外投资，印尼，特别是印度在该地区面临最大困境。印度政府在过去两周开始采取越来越孤注一掷的措施，如大幅提升金银进口税，但仍未阻止卢比贬值。卢比在8月贬值超过7%，而自5月份开始已贬值超过20%。
Daily steep declines in the rupee are making it much harder for Indian companies to repay their foreign loans, many of them denominated in dollars. The rupee’s decline has also made real estate and other projects in India less attractive for foreign investors who count their profits and losses in dollars, prompting many of them to pull out as well.
卢比连日大幅贬值使得印度的公司在偿还多以美元结算的外国贷款时遇到很大困难。与此同时，货币贬值造成印度房地产和其他项目对以美元计算得失的外国投资者吸引力减少，因而很多投资者干脆撤资。
As the Federal Reserve mulls tightening monetary policy in the United States in response to early signs of economic recovery there, rising interest rates on Treasury securities and other American financial instruments are drawing money away from emerging markets around the world.
随着美国经济开始出现复苏迹象，美联储(Federal Reserve)考虑收紧货币政策，因此而走高的国债和其他金融工具的利率正把资金从世界各地的新兴市场吸回美国。
Indonesia has tried to undertake some difficult overhauls this summer, most notably raising retail gasoline prices in June to limit government subsidies for the country’s millions of drivers. Economists say they expect Indonesia’s trade deficit to start shrinking in the coming months and its government finances to improve as families avoid unnecessary trips and buy less fuel as a result.
印尼今年夏天已尝试执行一些艰难的调整方案，最引人注意的莫过于在6月提高了汽油零售价格以限制政府对于全国几百万司机的补贴。由于家庭会避免不必要的出行并减少汽油使用量，经济学家表示，他们预计印尼的贸易赤字在未来几个月开始降低，而政府的金融状况则会有所改善。