Fashion spreads shot on location in Europe, news on the latest luxury accessories, articles on personal development and skin care. If you think this sounds like the contents of a women’s magazine, then you haven’t read Elle Men Hong Kong, featuring the Asian pretty boy actor Aarif Rahman on the November cover.
欧洲最热时装，最新的奢华配饰新闻，成功故事与护肤报道。如果你觉得这听起来像是女性杂志的内容，那你一定没有读过香港版的《Elle Men》（Elle男士）杂志，登上这本杂志11月刊封面的是亚洲男星李治廷(Aarif Rahman)。
At a time when print publications worldwide are facing unprecedented market competition from online and social media competitors, publishers in Asia have found what appears to be a gold mine: men’s fashion magazines.
在全世界传统纸媒均面临来自互联网和社交媒体前所未有竞争的时刻，亚洲出版商们似乎发现了一处新的金矿：时尚男刊。
This new breed consists of highly stylized fashion and lifestyle glossies, in some cases spinoff versions of well-known women’s titles. And they are reported to be outperforming traditional periodicals aimed at male readers: the business, automobile and so-called lad mag titles.
这个新物种包括顶级时装与光鲜的生活方式，其中许多是由著名女性杂志品牌衍生而来。据报道，时尚男刊已大大超出了传统的以男性为目标读者的期刊类出版物：商业、汽车、以及情色杂志。
In circulation, they are appealing to a growing male audience that is ready to spend money to look and feel good. And in advertising, businesses with deep pockets like watchmakers, fashion houses and beauty companies are interested in buying space.
从发行角度看，时尚男刊的目标读者是那些已经准备好花钱让自己从外表到内在都更光鲜的男性，且这个群体正在不断扩大。在广告上看，有实力的客户，比如制表、时装巨头与化妆品公司都对在版面上进行广告投放充满兴趣。
In September, the Hong Kong version of Elle Men was introduced by South China Morning Post Hearst Publications, with an introductory circulation of 40,000 and, according to promotional material, aimed at “creative types” between the ages of 25 and 35.
9月，香港版《Elle Men》由南华早报赫斯特出版集团推出，官方发行量为4万本（发行量通常以年计算——译注），根据他们的宣传资料，其目标读者为25到35岁之间的“创意人群”。
It followed Elle Men China, which debuted in 2011 and now claims a readership of more than 100,000 in key cities like Beijing and Shanghai.
它的先行者是《睿士》中国内地版《Elle Men》，2011年创刊，迄今已在内地主要城市例如北京、上海拥有超过10万读者群。（大部分同一品牌的国际版本直接使用该品牌的原名在本国发行，但在中国内地会以中文名字发行——译注）
(Bangkok will get the third Asian Elle Men magazine, in November.)
（同年11月，第三个亚洲版本的《Elle Men》将在曼谷发行。）
“In China, Elle Men also extends to an iPad magazine, a daily app and a credit card,” said Dodo Yeung, general manager and publisher of Hearst China. “After many years in the market, Elle is seen as a brand rather than a female magazine, and Elle Men has the same brand DNA: stylish, spirited and seductive.”
“在中国，《睿士》还推出了iPad杂志，会每日更新的app和信用卡，”赫斯特中国区经理和出版人Dodo Yeung介绍道，“在市场的多年经验告诉我们，《Elle》不仅仅是一本女性杂志，更是一个品牌，而《Elle Men》具有同样的品牌DNA：风范、睿智和魅力。”
Harper’s Bazaar, the famous women’s magazine with editions in Hong Kong and China, has Bazaar Men’s Style in China — which has an edgier focus with fashion shoots by the likes of Gilles-Marie Zimmermann and Frederic Aranda.
另一本著名的女性杂志《哈泼时尚》(Harper’s Bazaar)，在拥有香港和中国内地版本后，又在内地推出了《芭莎男士》(Bazaar Men’s Style)，以更先锋的时尚内容为主，例如会邀请吉勒斯·齐默曼(Gilles-Marie Zimmermann)和弗雷德里克·阿伦达(Frederic Aranda)这样的顶级摄影师拍摄时装大片。
All the China magazines target the world’s fastest-growing middle class, with information on style, grooming and technology.
所有的中国杂志都在关注全世界迅速增长的中产阶级，为其提供时装、美容与科技方面的资讯。
According to Ms. Yeung, Hearst market research indicates that young male working professionals in China spend as much as 75 percent of their income on fashion and luxury goods. With 47 percent of their readers earning 20,000 renminbi, or $3,284, a year and 22 percent earning more than 50,000 renminbi, Elle Men’s advertisers are promised that they will reach an audience Ms. Yeung describes as driven by success and social status.
根据Dodo Yeung的介绍，赫斯特的市场调查显示，中国年轻的男性专业人士大约会将收入的75%用于时尚与奢侈品消费。47%的读者年收入为2万人民币，相当于3284美元；而22%的年薪超过5万人民币。根据杨女士的说法，《睿士》的广告客户将会被那些向往成功与社会地位的读者所认识。
Elle Men Hong Kong and China compete with internationally established traditional male titles like GQ in China and Esquire in Hong Kong.
《Elle Men》香港与中国内地版本在国际上的竞争对手包括传统的老牌时尚男刊品牌，如中国内地版《GQ智族》与香港版《Esquire君子》杂志。
Esquire Hong Kong, published under license for 25 years by South China Media Group, now has rejoined South China Morning Post Hearst Publications. It will publish Esquire starting in January, with an estimated circulation of 40,000.
由南华传媒集团发行了25年的《Esquire君子》香港版，现在由南华早报赫斯特出版集团合资出版。明年1月刊（2014年1月刊）的预计发行量是4万本。
Not to be outdone, the staff of S.C.M.G.’s own flagship women’s magazine, Jessica, are working on new content for its male offshoot, Jmen. There also is talk in Hong Kong that the company is readying another competitor to Esquire, aimed at a mature readership.
不甘落后的南华传媒集团下的旗舰女刊《Jessica》，也在酝酿他们自己的男刊《Jmen》。有传闻宣传该集团已准备好在香港推出他们对阵《君子Esquire》的竞争品牌，一本针对更成熟男性读者的杂志。
Josephine Chan, managing director of S.C.M.G., said that advertiser demands gave them the confidence to publish two titles driven by male fashion and lifestyle topics.
南华传媒集团发行总监约瑟芬·陈(Josephine Chan)称，来自广告客户的需求让他们有信心同时出版两本主打男性时装与生活方式内容的杂志。
“Our advertisers are keen to be in world-class publications such as Elle and Esquire,” she said. “It used to be that Chinese men are not ostentatious spenders, but not anymore. Men who have disposable income want to enjoy life and have a greater awareness to express themselves. We are seeing growth in advertisers such as fashion, watches, beauty and fitness. Men are buying skincare products and going for facials just like women.”
“我们的广告客户非常希望在世界一流的出版物上投放广告，例如《Elle》和《君子Esquire》，”她说，“中国男性曾经被认为是不注重外表的，但再也不是这样了。男人有了足够的收入来享受生活，并且强烈地希望表达自己。我们正在见证时装、腕表、美容与健身方面的广告增长。男人已经像女人一样在购买护肤产品并且会去做美容。”
With a population of slightly more than seven million, Hong Kong has one of the liveliest and most competitive media industries in Asia. But Ms. Chan, who has been publishing magazines for more than 20 years, says not every formula successful in men’s magazines in the West has worked in Hong Kong.
拥有大约700万人口的香港也同时拥有亚洲最有活力和竞争力的媒体产业。然而已经在杂志出版业工作了超过20年的陈女士认为，不是每条西方男性杂志的成功法则在香港都能行得通。
For example, Maxim was introduced in 2000 but folded two years later.
例如，《Maxim》曾在2000年进入香港，但两年后即停刊。
“The contents of Maxim, while entertaining for readers, was too racy and the magazine was not seen as the right image for brand building for our advertisers,” she said, adding that Elle Men and Esquire would continue to focus on personal development and luxury goods, and to feature business leaders and male celebrities rather than sexy female starlets.
“《Maxim》杂志的内容，尽管非常受读者欢迎，对广告客户来说却过于超前，并且与他们想要建立的品牌形象不符，”她说，同时提到《Elle Men》和《君子Esquire》会继续主打个人发展与奢侈品的内容，报道商界领袖人物与男性名流明星，而不是性感小女明星。
In China, where all publications are censored, Bazaar Men takes a careful approach.
在中国内地，因所有出版物均会受到审查，《芭莎男士》走得小心翼翼。
“We are highly focused on style and business. No health, no sex and no politics,” said Chen Bo, deputy editor of Bazaar Men, which is published in a joint venture by Hearst and Trends Media Group of China. “Bazaar Men was launched nine years ago as a supplement in the women’s Bazaar magazine. And by next year we will publish two male magazines a month: Bazaar Men’s Style and Bazaar Men’s Business, the latter to let young professionals gain knowledge to dress more smart and mature.”
“我们的内容大部分集中于时装与商业，不涉及健康、性或政治，”《芭莎男士》时装总监陈博说。这本杂志由赫斯特与时尚传媒集团合作出版。“《芭莎男士》9年前作为《时尚芭莎》的别册第一次推出。明年之前，我们会一个月出版两本男刊：《芭莎男士风尚》(Bazaar Men Style)与《芭莎男士商业》(Bazaar Men Business)，后者将致力于帮助年轻的专业人士穿得更时尚更成熟。”
Luxury brands like Cartier say they are using men’s magazines in China to educate their rapidly growing group of consumers.
奢侈品牌例如卡地亚(Cartier)曾说过，他们在通过中国的时尚男刊培养自己正在迅猛崛起的目标消费群体。
“Magazines still are one of the main channels to communicate with customers, with digital becoming an important touch point,” said Nigel Luk, Cartier’s regional managing director for North Asia. It is not uncommon to see celebrity product endorsements in these magazines, like photographs of personalities and successful businessmen wearing the latest extravagantly priced watches.
“杂志仍然是（品牌）与消费者交流的最主要渠道之一，与此同时数字化也正成为重要的切入点，耐吉尔·卢克(Nigel Luk), 卡地亚北亚地区总经理说。这些品牌的明星产品经常在杂志上植入，例如成功男士佩戴最新款的天价腕表这样的大片中。
Also common in China and Hong Kong titles are advertiser-friendly “brand stories,” or articles devoted exclusively to the history of luxury and fashion houses. “As Chinese customers become more sophisticated, they want to know about brand history, heritage and craftsmanship,” Mr. Luk said.
另一个在中国内地与香港杂志中常见的为广告客户服务的标题是“品牌故事”，或是一个为奢侈品与时尚企业量身定制的讲述品牌历史的文章。“中国的消费者越来越成熟，他们想知道品牌的历史、传承与工艺，”卢克说。
The magazine boom is not limited to Greater China, however.
杂志热潮不仅仅发生在大中华区。
In Singapore and Malaysia, homegrown men’s fashion titles like The Rake and August Man are going head to head with Esquire, presented under license by Mongoose Publishing, whose Asia division is based in Kuala Lumpur.
在新加坡与马来西亚，本土时尚男刊，Mongoose出版集团位于吉隆坡的亚洲分公司旗下拥有《Rake》和《August Man》，与《Esquire》并驾齐驱。
“We are an editorial magazine with nonfiction features and photo essays, but we do have a robust fashion and lifestyle section,” said Sam Coleman, editor of Esquire Singapore since its debut in 2012. “Ninety percent of our covers feature international A-list celebrities and the remaining 10 percent is local personalities.”
“我们是一本以内容阅读为主的杂志，由大量真实故事与图片报道组成，但我们必须开辟时尚与生活方式版块，”新加坡版《Esquire》的山姆·科尔曼(Sam Coleman)称，从2012年创刊他便担任此杂志的主编职位。“我们90%的封面人物为一线国际明星，另外10%是本土名人。”
Although Mongoose Publishing has announced it is introducing the Malaysian edition of Elle in three months, there are no current plans for Elle Men, according to Graham Paling, the group’s chief executive. “All our focus is with the job in hand currently. But all opportunities are considered at Mongoose, and this one will be as well.”
尽管Mongoose集团已经宣布他们会在3个月内发行马来西亚版《Elle》杂志，但尚未对发行《Elle Men》有计划。格拉汉姆·帕灵(Graham Paling)，该集团执行总裁认为：“我们希望集中做好当下手头的工作，当然Mongoose不会放弃任何机会，包括推出男刊。”