Forbes Media, publisher of the magazine that is perhaps the most famous chronicler and evangelist for American-style capitalism, agreed on Friday to sell a majority stake in itself to a consortium of Asian investors, concluding a protracted sales process in which a number of prospective bidders dropped out.
作为堪称美式资本主义最著名的记录者和布道者的杂志的出版商，福布斯传媒(Forbes Media)周五达成协议，将把其自身的多数股份出售给一个亚洲投资团。在这桩旷日持久的交易中，曾有多家竞标者中途退出。
The terms were not disclosed, but the transaction values Forbes Media at $475 million, said a person close to the deal.
交易的条款未被披露，但一位知情者说，福布斯传媒获得的估值是4.75亿美元。
Forbes’s new controlling shareholders will be Integrated Whale Media Investments, a group that includes the Hong Kong investor Tak Cheung Yam and Wayne Hsieh, the Singaporean co-founder of AsusTek Computer. The group hopes to leverage the Forbes brand, which has retained a gloss in Asia that it has lost in the United States, to do deals in real estate, business clubs and financial services. (A Forbes Media Tower is already being built in the Philippines.)
交易完成后，福布斯新的控股方将是本汇鲸媒体投资有限公司(Integrated Whale Media Investments)，其成员包括香港的投资者任德章(Tak Cheung Yam)，以及华硕电脑的新加坡籍联合创始人谢伟琦(Wayne Hsieh)。该机构希望利用福布斯的品牌从事房地产、商业俱乐部和金融服务方面的交易。福布斯品牌在美国已趋于黯淡，但在亚洲光芒依旧。（在菲律宾，一座福布斯传媒大厦正在建设之中。）
The Forbes family will retain a “significant” ownership stake, the company said in a statement. (A person familiar with the deal estimated it at about 20 percent.) In addition, the family’s patriarch, Steve Forbes, will retain the chairman and editor in chief roles. The publisher’s existing chief executive, Mike Perlis, will hold on to his position as well.
公司在一份声明中说，福布斯家族仍将持有“大量”股权。（一名知情者估计约为20%。）此外，福布斯家族的掌门人史蒂夫·福布斯(Steve Forbes)将继续担任董事长和总编辑。这家出版商的现任首席执行官迈克·佩利斯(Mike Perlis)也将继续任职。
The announcement on Friday completes a sales process begun late last year with the promise that investors would get an interest in Forbes magazine, once a bible for the capitalist set. Many possible buyers bowed out because the terms of the deal that Forbes wanted, including a continuing role for the family in the business, were too steep.
周五的消息为去年开始的一桩出售交易画上了句号。在一开始，曾被奉为资本家《圣经》的《福布斯》杂志为投资者带去了希望，让他们有望获得相关利益。但由于福布斯提出的条款太过苛刻，许多潜在的买家纷纷退出。这些条款包括，福布斯家族要在企业中长期扮演角色。
Certainly, previous investors have found it difficult to get their money’s worth. Elevation Partners, the investment firm that counts Bono of the band U2 among its founding partners, acquired a roughly 45 percent stake in Forbes in 2006 estimated at $260 million. The firm had written down the investment value to $35 million last year. Still, in a letter to investors, Elevation said that it had recouped its investment in Forbes.
的确，之前的投资者已经发现，对福布斯的投资很难获得应有的回报。高地风险投资公司(Elevation Partners)2006年获得了大约45%的股权，价值约为2.6亿美元。去年，这家公司把这笔投资的价值减计为3500万美元。U2乐队的主唱波诺(Bono)是该公司的联合创始人之一。尽管如此，高地公司在致投资者的信中表示，对福布斯的投资已经收回了成本。
Mr. Forbes said on Friday that in the end, he got nearly everything he wanted out of the deal. “We were looking for a very particular kind of buyer interested in brand and legacy and the strategy the current management team has in place, and we are very pleased to say the long process was worthwhile,” he said.
福布斯周五表示，最后，他几乎从这笔交易中得到了自己想要的一切。他说，“我们一直在寻求一种非常特别的买家，他要对品牌、传承和目前的管理团队所采取的战略感兴趣，我们非常高兴地说，这个漫长的过程是值得的。”
Forbes Magazine, an unapologetic booster for wealth that had as its motto “The Capitalist Tool,” reached its golden age under Malcolm Forbes, who himself joyously lived the mogul life his magazine celebrated, complete with a private yacht and a collection of jeweled Fabergé eggs.
《福布斯》杂志毫不掩饰对财富的崇拜，其座右铭是“资本家的工具”。这本杂志在马尔科姆·福布斯(Malcolm Forbes)的管理下达到了鼎盛时期，而他本人也过着这本杂志所推崇的大亨式生活，包括拥有一艘私人游艇和对镶嵌了宝石的法贝热彩蛋的收藏。
It was Malcolm who pioneered the annual list of the 400 wealthiest Americans that would become the most famous trademark of the brand.
马尔科姆还创立了福布斯400美国富豪排行榜，这个每年一次的榜单已成为福布斯品牌的最著名商标。
But in recent years, Forbes has been buffeted by the same print advertising exodus that has affected the rest of the industry. Although the paid circulation for its print editions has remained in the 920,000 to 930,000 range since 2009, according to the Alliance for Audited Media, its advertising in those print editions, including ForbesLife, declined nearly 11 percent last year. The company even had to sell its headquarters on Fifth Avenue.The company is private. By its own accounts, it has been among the most aggressive publications in expanding its digital advertising, particularly through the use of sponsored content. Its BrandVoice system allows advertisers to publish their own articles directly on Forbes.com.
但最近几年，整个行业都受到了平面广告流失的影响，福布斯也未能幸免。根据审计媒体联盟(Alliance for Audited Media)的数据，尽管2009年以来，《福布斯》杂志的纸质版的付费发行量一直保持在92万到93万之间，包括《福布斯生活》(Forbes Life)在内的纸质杂志上的广告却减少了约11%。并非上市公司的福布斯甚至不得不出售了其第五大道的总部大楼。根据公司自己的说法，福布斯是在数字广告领域扩张势头最猛的刊物之一，其中主要是通过使用赞助内容。通过福布斯的BrandVoice系统，广告商可以直接在Forbes.com网站上发布自己的文章。
In fact, Forbes’s digital push has been significant enough that revenues from online advertising passed print advertising at the end of 2013, according to Mr. Perlis, the company’s chief executive.
事实上，福布斯在数字领域的努力已经足够卓有成效，公司的首席执行官佩利斯说，2013年年末，来自在线广告的收入已经超过了平面广告。
The company also says that its conference business, including Forbes Women’s Summit, is thriving. And, of course, it retains the rights to its celebrated lists of richest people, which have now expanded to include the Richest American Families and the Forbes Billionaire list, which is global.
福布斯公司还表示，其包括福布斯女性峰会(Forbes Women’s Summit)在内的会议业务正在蓬勃发展。此外，公司当然还保留了著名的富豪排行榜的所有权，后者如今涵盖了美国富豪家族排行榜和全球性的福布斯亿万富翁排行榜。
Around late November, the Forbes family indicated that it hoped to fetch around $400 million in a sale, with foreign buyers like Axel Springer of Germany and Spice Global Investments of Singapore in the mix.
去年11月末前后，福布斯家族表示，希望完成一笔规模约4亿美元的出售交易，当时的竞购者包括德国的阿克塞尔·斯普林格公司(Axel Springer)和新加坡的Spice Global Investments等外国买家。
But interest waned, and by the spring the sales process appeared to be in jeopardy.
但投资者渐渐意兴阑珊，到了今年春天，这笔交易似乎岌岌可危。