TOKYO — When SoftBank, the Japanese telecommunications provider, announced last week that it had agreed to buy a 51 percent stake in a Finnish mobile game company for $1.5 billion, many people in both industries reacted with disbelief.
东京——日本电信服务运营商软银(SoftBank)上周宣布，与一家芬兰移动游戏公司达成协议，以15亿美元（约合92亿元人民币）的价格收购其51%的股份。对此，两个行业都有很多人表示难以置信。
Suddenly Supercell, a three-year-old game developer in Helsinki with only 100 or so employees and two successful games, was worth $3 billion. The investment in Supercell, the developer of Hay Day and Clash of Clans, reflects the growing global ambitions of Asian companies like SoftBank in mobile gaming, the fastest-growing part of the game business.
突然之间，成立三年的赫尔辛基游戏开发商超级单体(Supercell)就有了30亿美元的身价，而它的雇员只有100人左右，也仅有两款热门游戏：卡通农场(Hay Day)和部落冲突(Clash of Clans)。这项投资体现了软银等亚洲企业在移动游戏领域的国际市场上日益高涨的野心，而移动游戏正是游戏业发展最快的部分。
Japanese companies like Sony, Sega and Nintendo dominated the early days of the console era of video games. American companies like Electronic Arts were the driving force in the extension of console gaming to the PC. Now, even as Sony and its main console rival, Microsoft, prepare to sell their newest devices, the PlayStation 4 and the Xbox1, other companies in Japan and across Asia are positioning themselves to take a leading role in mobile games.
索尼(Sony)、世嘉(Sega)和任天堂(Nintendo)等日本企业曾经称霸早期的电视游戏机时代。而艺电(Electronic Arts)等美国企业则是电视游戏走向PC背后的推手。现在，尽管索尼及其主要的游戏机领域竞争对手微软(Microsoft)正准备推出各自的最新设备——PlayStation 4和Xbox 1——日本及亚洲各地的其他一些公司却正在布局，以期在移动游戏中领先。
“Who has $1.5 billion to invest in a company like Supercell?” said Bertrand Schmitt, chief executive of App Annie, a mobile analytics firm based in Beijing. “There are not so many players in the West who could do this.”
App Annie是一家总部位于北京的移动分析公司，首席执行官施伯亭(Bertrand Schmitt)表示，“谁能有15亿美元投给超级单体这样的公司？西方这一市场上可没有多少公司可以这么做。”
Eight of the 10 biggest merger-and-acquisition transactions involving game companies this year have been initiated by buyers based in Asia, according to Digi-Capital, an investment bank that specializes in games. These include the Supercell deal, in which SoftBank was joined by a subsidiary, the Japanese game company GungHo. The list does not include the management buyout of Activision Blizzard, the world’s biggest video game publisher, in which a Chinese Internet company, Tencent, took part.
根据游戏领域投资银行Digi-Capital的统计，今年与游戏公司有关的十大并购交易中，有八家由亚洲买家发起。超级单体的交易就名列其中，发起方除了软银，还有它的子公司：日本的游戏公司工和(GungHo)。名单中并未包含腾讯参与的一桩交易，即世界上最大的电子游戏发行商动视暴雪(Activision Blizzard)的管理层回购公司的控股权。
The growth of mobile gaming is upending the longstanding business model of the business, which was based on the sale of games — and the devices to play them. The new approach is to give away games away for smartphones and then to earn revenue from in-game purchases, advertising and other add-ons. While the so-called free-to-play model has spread to much of the rest of the world, it was mostly pioneered in Asia.
游戏业中存在已久的商业模式基于的是销售游戏及打游戏的设备，但移动游戏的发展颠覆了这一模式。新办法是提供免费的智能手机游戏，然后从游戏内的购买和广告等附加项目中赚取收入。虽说这种免费游戏模式(free-to-play)已流传到世界上的很多地区，不过开路先锋大多在亚洲。
“If the U.S. and Europe are great conceptually, the leading Asian markets are masters of the science of making money from mobile,” said Tim Merel, founder of Digi-Capital.
Digi-Capital的创始人蒂姆·梅瑞尔(Tim Merel)称，“如果说美欧善于经营概念，那么领跑的亚洲市场则是从移动设备上赚钱的专业大师。”
In September, two Asian countries, Japan and South Korea, together accounted for a whopping 62 percent of worldwide revenue from games on the Google Play mobile app store, according to App Annie. The United States represented 15 percent of sales.
根据App Annie的统计，今年9月，日韩两个亚洲国家合计赚得了Google Play移动应用商店中全球游戏收入的62%，这着实不少。美国则占了15%的销售额。
Over all, Asia accounts for half of the revenue in the mobile game business, and this will grow to two-thirds in 2016, according to Digi-Capital.
Digi-Capital的数据显示，亚洲共占有移动游戏业务中一半的收入，并将于2016年增至三分之二。
Asia’s leadership in free mobile games is explained by a variety of factors. In 2000, China banned the sale of consoles, because violent video games were considered a corrupting influence on youth. Though the government recently moved to ease restrictions, many Chinese players have gotten used to alternative kinds of games.
亚洲在免费移动游戏中的领先可以用多种因素来解释。2000年，中国对电视游戏机的销售下了禁令，理由是暴力的视频游戏会对年轻人产生不良影响。虽然政府最近着手放松了限制，许多中国玩家已经习惯了其他种类的游戏。
In Tokyo and other crowded Asian cities, mobile games make a convenient distraction during subway journeys. In Japan, rudimentary mobile games, offered by wireless operators like NTT DoCoMo, were already popular before smartphones and app stores arrived on the scene.
在东京等拥挤的亚洲城市，移动游戏很适合用来在乘坐地铁的时候打发时间。在日本，NTT都科摩(NTT DoCoMo)等无线运营商提供的基础移动游戏，早在智能手机和应用商店到来之前就已流行开来。
So, while it is hard to imagine a mobile network operator in the United States or Europe following SoftBank’s move, analysts said the investment might have made sense for that company, which also recently bought the United States cellphone operator Sprint for $21.6 billion.
所以说，虽然难以想象美国或欧洲的移动网络运营商会步软银的后尘，不过分析人士指出，这笔投资对软银来说或许算是合情合理。不久前，该公司还耗资216亿美元收购了美国手机运营商斯普林特(Spint)。
“There’s no way a Deutsche Telekom or a Verizon could spend $1.5 billion for half of a small game company in Finland,” said Serkan Toto, an independent technology analyst in Tokyo. “Their shareholders would absolutely slaughter them.”
在东京工作的独立技术分析师赛尔坎·托托(Serkan Toto)说，“德国电信(Deutsche Telekom)或威瑞森(Verizon)无论如何也不会花15亿美元来收购一家芬兰小游戏公司一半的股份。它们的股东绝对会把他们给宰了。”
SoftBank shareholders did not. In fact, the stock price barely budged. But the dynamics of the mobile business are different in Japan. Though many of the recent mergers and acquisitions initiated by Asian buyers involve Asia-based targets, SoftBank’s purchase of a controlling stake in Supercell is not the first deal for a Western mobile game company. In 2010, DeNA of Japan acquired Ngmoco, based in San Francisco. In 2012, Tencent took a sizable minority stake in Epic Games, based in North Carolina.
软银的股东不会这么干。实际上，公司的股价几乎毫无波动。不过，在日本，移动行业的发展变化颇为独特。尽管亚洲买家近期发起的许多并购的目标都在亚洲，但软银对超级单体控股权的收购，并非西方移动游戏公司遇到的首单此类交易。2010年，日本的DeNA公司买下了总部位于美国旧金山的Ngmoco公司。2012年，腾讯收购了总部位于美国北卡罗来纳州的英佩游戏(Epic Games)可观的少数股权。
“All of the Asian players are trying to crack the Western market,” said Will Luton, author of the book “Free 2 Play: Making Money From Games You Give Away” (New Riders, 2013), and a consultant based in Bristol, England.
“所有的亚洲玩家都在设法打入西方市场，”威尔·卢顿(Will Luton)说。他在英国布里斯托尔从事咨询工作，著有《免费游戏：从不要钱的游戏里挣钱》(Free 2 Play: Making Money From Games You Give Away)一书。
Not all of these deals worked out well. Last year, a Japanese social networking and gaming company, Gree, shut down OpenFeint, a mobile game platform, only a little more than a year after it had spent $104 million to buy it.
并不是所有的此类交易都进展圆满。去年，日本社交网络及游戏公司Gree关闭了旗下的移动游戏平台OpenFeint，此时距离它耗资1.04亿美元买下该平台，才刚刚过去一年。
Mr. Luton and others say Supercell and SoftBank might be a better fit. Supercell and GungHo — which was founded by Taizo Son, brother of the SoftBank founder, Masayoshi Son — will be able use each other’s games to market their own creations in places where they have not had a strong presence. GungHo’s biggest hit, Puzzle & Dragons, for example, is hugely popular in Asia but not as widely played in Europe. The companies, which have cooperated on promotions in the past, will now be able to deepen their ties.
卢顿等人表示，超级单体和软银也许更为匹配。超级单体与工和能够利用彼此的游戏，在之前不占优势的市场推广自己的产品。例如，工和最热门的游戏《智龙迷城》(Puzzle & Dragons)在亚洲非常受欢迎，可是在欧洲就没有同样广泛的用户群。工和是由软银创始人孙正义(Masayoshi Son)的弟弟孙泰藏(Taizo Son)创立的。超级单体曾与工和在推广上进行过合作，如今可以进一步加深彼此的关系。
Even though the United States is a smaller mobile gaming market, adding Supercell could help SoftBank flesh out the appeal of Sprint, said Thomas Husson, an analyst at Forrester Research.
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)的分析师托马斯·哈森(Thomas Husson)说，虽然美国的移动游戏市场规模较小，超级单体的加入依然有助于软银充实斯普林特的吸引力。
“The value of the acquisition goes beyond potential revenues in the mobile gaming sector,” he said. “I think the rationale for SoftBank is that powerful gaming content will fuel its overall mobile Internet and app strategy and enable them to globalize some of their initiatives in the light of the Sprint acquisition.”
“这起收购的价值不仅在于移动游戏领域带来的潜在收入，”他说，“我认为，软银的理由是，强大的游戏内容会给公司移动互联网及应用程序的整体战略注入活力，使公司能够根据收购斯普林特后的情况，在全球范围内推行一些项目。”