The CW series “Nikita” begins its fourth and final season on Friday — an abbreviated run to tie up story lines, as the reluctant assassin Nikita stands falsely accused of killing the president — and while there’s still a chance, I’d like to celebrate a small but significant milestone. For six more weeks, two of the strongest and most interesting female leads on television are being played by Asian-American actresses.
CW频道的电视剧《尼基塔》(Nikita)周五开始播放第四季，这是该剧的最后一季，要飞快地给这个故事画上句号，因为顽抗的杀手尼基塔被错误地指控为杀害总统的凶手。趁着还有机会，我想庆祝一个小小的但是意义重大的里程碑。在接下来的六周多的时间里，电视上最有力量、最有意思的两位女主角是由亚裔美国女演员扮演的。
I’m talking about Maggie Q, finishing her turn as Nikita, and Lucy Liu, in her second season as Joan Watson on CBS’s “Elementary,” where she is every bit as central as Jonny Lee Miller’s Sherlock Holmes. Both shows have their formulaic elements, but Nikita and Joan are noncartoonish, reasonably complex, multidimensional characters, and in prime time, there aren’t too many actresses getting that kind of opportunity in a lead role. Julianna Margulies in “The Good Wife,” Connie Britton in “Nashville,” Claire Danes in “Homeland,” Lizzy Caplan in “Masters of Sex.” It’s a short list.
我指的是Maggie Q和刘玉玲(Lucy Liu)，前者即将结束尼基塔的表演，后者在CBS频道的《基本演绎法》(Elementary)中扮演琼·华生(Joan Watson)，该剧正在播放第二季，刘玉玲的角色正变得跟约翰尼·李·米勒(Jonny Lee Miller)扮演的夏洛克·福尔摩斯(Sherlock Holmes)同等重要。这两部电视剧都有些程式化的元素，但是尼基塔和琼都不是卡通式的人物，而是有点复杂的多维化的人物。在黄金时间的电视剧中，很多女演员都没有机会扮演这样的女主角。类似的例子并不多，只有《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)中的朱莉安娜·马古利斯(Julianna Margulies)；《音乐之乡》(Nashville)中的康妮·布里顿(Connie Britton)；《国土安全》(Homeland)中的克莱尔·丹尼斯(Claire Danes)；以及《性爱大师》(Masters of Sex)中的利齐·卡普兰(Lizzy Caplan)。
Of course, that broader look also indicates that the overall picture for Asian actresses (American, Canadian and otherwise) isn’t so happy. A lot of them are working, but in roles far down the food chain from Nikita and Watson, and often playing characters conceived or shaped to reflect longstanding stereotypes about Asians.
当然，亚裔女演员（亚裔美国或亚裔加拿大女演员等）的总体情况并不乐观。有很多亚裔女演员在演戏，但是扮演的角色比尼基塔和沃森要低等得多，往往在构思和塑造过程中反映出对亚洲人长久以来的偏见。
Even Maggie Q and Ms. Liu haven’t completely escaped those archetypes. Both are playing the latest iterations of durable characters traditionally inhabited by white performers, so it would seem that race shouldn’t have any particular bearing. But the truth is that they resonate with two of the most common sets of images — or clichés — about Asian women: the high-achieving, socially awkward Dr. Joan Watson is a refined example of the sexy nerd, and the lethal, sometimes icy Nikita, able to dispense violence while wearing tight, microscopic outfits, evokes a long line of dragon ladies and ninja killers.
甚至连Maggie Q和刘玉玲也没有完全摆脱这种偏见。她们的角色都是经常重新被演绎的经典形象，从前一直由白人演员饰演，她俩的演绎是最新的版本，似乎与她们的种族没什么特别的关系。但实际上，她们与亚洲女性最常见的两个固有形象相吻合：学习成绩优秀、不善交际的琼·华生医生是性感书呆子的改良版；具有致命杀伤力的、有时冷冰冰的尼基塔穿上紧身衣能安良除暴，不免让人想起强悍的龙夫人和忍者杀手。
(You could argue that the association exists only because Maggie Q was cast as Nikita, who is based on a French film character, but it’s a self-canceling argument: The men who created the show sought her out for the role.)
（你可以争辩说，我有这种联想只是因为Maggie Q演的是尼基塔——这个人物是根据一个法国电影人物改编的——但这是一个自相矛盾的论点：这部电视剧的制片人选她演这个角色是有原因的。）
In both cases, though, the actresses and their writers have avoided or transcended easy stereotypes. A lot of effort has gone into humanizing Nikita, and making her a sisterly or even maternal figure for the younger assassin Alex (Lyndsy Fonseca), and the emphasis on violent action has decreased over the show’s run. In “Elementary,” Watson has embraced her role as apprentice detective after suffering a catastrophic failure as a doctor, taking some of the shine off her super-competence. And unlike other characters in the same mold, she appears to have a normal, nonneurotic romantic life.
不过，这两位演员以及这两部电视剧的编剧避开或者说超越了常见的偏见。他们下了很大工夫让尼基塔更人性化，让她成为年轻杀手亚历克斯(Alex，琳德西·冯塞卡[Lyndsy Fonseca]饰）的姐姐甚至母亲式的人物，剧中的暴力场面也越来越少。在《基本演绎法》中，华生在经历了行医生涯的一次重大失误后，开始接受侦探学徒的身份，她身上超级优秀的光环弱化了一些。不像这一类型的其他人物，她似乎拥有正常的、不神经质的感情生活。
Clothes also tell a tale. Maggie Q fought some battles over her costumes in the early days of “Nikita,” and she has spent progressively more time in plain, covered-up (though still closefitting) workout-style ensembles and less in skimpy red dresses. Ms. Liu’s outfits, mostly chosen by the costume designer Rebecca Hofherr, have attracted a following of their own. The majority opinion seems to be that they reflect Watson’s quirky but confident style. To my eye, they have a clever awfulness, making Ms. Liu look good while signaling that perhaps she doesn’t spend as much time as she could in front of a mirror.
着装也能说明一些问题。在《尼基塔》开头的几场打斗戏中，Maggie Q全副武装，后来她大多穿的是普通的、不太暴露的（不过还是紧身的）运动风格的套装，不怎么穿又短又紧的红色连衣裙了。刘玉玲的服装大多是由服装设计师丽贝卡·霍夫厄(Rebecca Hofherr)挑选的，也吸引了一些拥趸。大家似乎主要认为，这些服装反应了华生古怪但自信的风格。在我看来，它们很巧妙，既让刘玉玲看起来很漂亮，又表明她没花很多时间打扮。
Either way, what Watson’s clothes don’t do is make her look ridiculous or hide Ms. Liu’s attractiveness. That’s the fate of some other Asian-American actresses in roles that play more obviously to geekiness or braininess, and are visually coded for easy comprehension. Liza Lapira wears fright clothes and dowdy haircuts as the sidekick Helen-Alice on “Super Fun Night” (ABC), something she already endured as the eccentric neighbor on “Don’t Trust the B---- in Apt. 23” last season. On “Awkward” (MTV), Jessica Lu, as the rebellious daughter of strict Chinese parents, sports a hat with ears while Jessika Van, as her Asian rival, is dressed in starched outfits that make her look like an Amish schoolteacher. Both Ms. Lapira and Ms. Lu are accessorized with glasses — big black ones — something neither appears to wear in real life. Also occasionally donning glasses is Brenda Song as a video-game company executive in “Dads,” on Fox, though her most distinctive costume remains the sailor-girl outfit she wore in the pilot, part of an extended joke about the sexualization of Asian women that didn’t accomplish much besides sexualizing an Asian woman.
不管怎样，华生的服装既没有让这个人物看起来很滑稽，也没有掩盖刘玉玲的魅力。其他一些亚裔美国女演员在扮演怪才或有头脑的人物时则免不了这样的命运，在外形上刻意塑造成那样。丽莎·拉皮拉(Liza Lapira)在ABC频道的《三女闹周末》(Super Fun Night)中扮演配角海伦-艾丽斯(Helen-Alice)时穿着丑陋的衣服，留着过时的发型。上一季在《23号公寓》(Don’t Trust the B---- in Apt. 23)中她扮演过这样一个古怪的邻居。在MTV的《囧女珍娜》(Awkward)中，杰西卡·鲁(Jessica Lu)扮演一个叛逆的女儿，戴着有耳朵的帽子，她的父母是要求严格的华裔。她的亚裔对手范立美(Jessika Van)则穿着硬挺的服装，看起来像简朴的学校老师。拉皮拉和杰西卡·鲁都戴着大大的黑框眼镜，现实生活中也没见哪个亚裔戴这种眼镜。宋布兰(Brenda Song)在福克斯频道的《两个老爸》(Dads)中扮演游戏公司主管时偶尔也戴眼镜，不过她最独特的服装仍是在试播集中穿的水手套装，这是关于片中的一个玩笑：让亚洲女人有性别特点的努力没取得什么成就，只是让一个亚洲女人变性感了。
And there are other actresses playing less evolved versions of the Nikita-style action hero. Ming-Na Wen’s Melinda May, the black-leather-jacketed pilot in “Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.” (ABC), is a stoic enforcer with a dragon-lady vibe; Grace Park’s Kono Kalakaua on “Hawaii Five-0” (CBS) is equally lethal (she often does most of the kicking and punching) but favors bikinis and tight jeans. On “Once Upon a Time” (ABC), Jamie Chung plays the Disney version of a mythical Chinese swordswoman.
还有其他一些女演员在扮演低级版的尼基塔式打斗人物。温明娜在ABC频道的《神盾局特工》(Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.)中扮演身穿黑色皮夹克的梅琳达·梅(Melinda May)，她是个坚忍的执法者，也有龙夫人的气质。朴敏庆(Grace Park)在CBS频道的《夏威夷特警》(Hawaii Five-0)中扮演的科诺·卡拉卡瓦(Kono Kalakaua)同样具有致命的杀伤力（大部分打斗戏都是她演的），但是她喜欢穿比基尼和紧身牛仔裤。在ABC频道的《童话镇》(Once Upon a Time)中，杰米·钟(Jamie Chung)扮演的是一个迪斯尼版的神秘中国女剑客。
It takes some looking to find Asian actresses in roles that don’t easily fit into one of these two broad categories. There are a few jobs in a third category, the manipulative or overly protective Asian mother: Jodi Long on “Sullivan and Son” (TBS), Lauren Tom on “Supernatural” (CW). On the entertaining but paper-thin “Beauty and the Beast” (also on CW), Kristin Kreuk stars as a cop who just happens to be mixed race. There is, of course, another major Asian-American female television star not mentioned yet: Sandra Oh, whose Dr. Cristina Yang is not the lead but is a major member of the ensemble on ABC’s “Grey’s Anatomy.” As with Nikita and Watson, Yang displays some typical Asian markers — she’s a hypercompetitive, socially awkward doctor — whose race is matter of fact because there’s so much more to know about her. Yang, along with Watson and Nikita, could be considered exceptions that prove a rule, but I think the real lesson here is probably that TV would be a better place for women of all races if Shonda Rhimes (“Grey’s Anatomy,” “Scandal”) could just write all the shows.
要花些工夫才能找到亚裔女演员扮演的不属于这两大类的角色。有几个角色属于第三类：具有强烈控制欲或保护欲的亚裔母亲，比如乔迪·朗(Jodi Long)在TBS频道的《沙利文和儿子》(Sullivan and Son)中以及劳伦·汤姆(Lauren Tom)在CW频道的《邪恶力量》(Supernatural)中扮演的角色。在有趣而单薄的《美女与野兽》（Beauty and the Beast，CW频道）中，克里斯汀·克鲁克(Kristin Kreuk)扮演一名碰巧是混血儿的警察。当然，有一个重要的亚裔美国电视明星我还没有提到：吴珊卓(Sandra Oh)。她在ABC频道的《实习医生格蕾》(Grey’s Anatomy)中扮演的克里斯蒂娜·杨医生(Dr. Cristina Yang)虽然不是主角，但是也很重要。与尼基塔和沃森一样，杨表现出一些典型的亚洲特点——她很有竞争力，但是不善社交。她的种族背景只是一个普通事实，因为她的更多情况我们还不知道。杨、华生和尼基塔可以被认为是反证规律的特例，但是我认为真正的意义在于，如果所有的电视剧都由珊达莱梅斯（Shonda Rhimes，《实习医生格蕾》和《丑闻》[Scandal]的编剧）来编写，那对各个种族的女性来说，电视剧会成为一个更美好的地方。