SURABAYA, Indonesia — Indonesian officials said Saturday that two large pieces of the Airbus A320-200 jetliner that plunged into the Java Sea on Sunday had been found. The wreckage was located by sonar equipment, but divers had not yet been able to examine it because of high waves and perilous currents, according to the National Search and Rescue Agency.
印尼泗水——印尼官员周六表示，上周日坠入爪哇海的那架空客A320-200客机的两大块机身残骸已被找到。据印尼国家搜救队消息，残骸由声呐设备找到，但由于巨浪和险恶暗流，潜水员尚未能够检视残骸。
On Friday, officials said that they had recovered 46 bodies and identified three by the end of the sixth day of search operations.
官员周五表示，截至搜索行动第六日，已发现46具遗体，并确认了其中三具的身份。
An Indonesian official told a local television station that some of the bodies were still belted into their seats.
一位印尼官员对当地一家电视台说，一些遗体仍被安全带绑在他们的座椅上。
The official, Marsma Supriyadi, director of operations for the search and rescue agency, said eight of the bodies that had been recovered were sent to Surabaya, the capital of East Java.
该名官员——印尼国家搜救队的救援行动主管马尔斯玛·苏皮亚迪(Marsma Supriyadi)——说已被找回的遗体中的八具已被送到了东爪哇省首府泗水。
“With luck we’ll find more because search operations are continuing,” he told reporters in Pangkalan Bun, close to the site where wreckage from the airliner was discovered Tuesday.
“运气好的话，我们将找到更多遇难者遗体，因为搜索行动仍在继续，”他在庞卡兰布翁对记者说，此地位于周二发现飞机残骸的海域附近。
AirAsia Flight 8501, en route to Singapore, crashed Sunday with 162 people aboard, about an hour after leaving Surabaya on what was supposed to be a flight of about 90 minutes. On Friday, Indonesia’s transportation ministry said that AirAsia had not been authorized to fly the Surabaya-to-Singapore route on Sundays and that the airline’s flights on that route had been suspended.
上周日，飞往新加坡的亚航8501次航班在飞离泗水一小时之后坠入爪哇海。该航班原定的飞行时长大约为90分钟。周五，印尼交通部称，亚航未被授权于周日飞泗水至新加坡的路线，且该航空公司该路线的航班已被暂停。
Mr. Supriyadi, of the search and rescue agency, said three bodies had been positively identified after forensic examinations, including DNA and dental tests. The three were an AirAsia flight attendant and two passengers, he added.
搜救队的苏皮亚迪说，在进行了包括DNA和牙齿检测在内的大量法医检验之后，三具遗体的身份被确认。他说，他们是一名空乘人员和两名乘客。
In the waters off Pangkalan Bun, international experts with acoustic equipment joined teams searching for the missing plane on Friday, but continuing bad weather held back efforts to hunt for the plane’s flight data recorders.
周五，在庞卡兰布翁附近的水域，国际专家携带声学设备加入了失踪航班的搜救队伍中，但持续的恶劣天气阻碍了寻找飞机飞行数据记录器的行动。
Two ships carrying hydrophones, or underwater listening devices, embarked from Pangkalan Bun. Experts from the French accident inquiry agency B.E.A., which investigates the crashes of all Airbus planes, were aboard one of the vessels.
两艘携有水下测音器的船只从庞卡兰布翁出发。其中一艘船上载有法国航空事故调查处(BEA)的专家。这家机构会对所有空客(Airbus)飞机的事故进行调查。
The search-and-rescue authorities said waves 10 to 16 feet high were holding back recovery operations at the site.
负责搜救的官员称，现场10到16英尺高的巨浪阻碍了搜寻行动。