BANGKOK — Indonesian authorities were searching for an AirAsia aircraft with 155 passengers onboard Sunday after air traffic controllers lost contact with the plane, the airline said.
曼谷——亚洲航空公司声明，印度尼西亚官方仍在搜索载有155名乘客的亚航客机。这架飞机周日与空管失去了联系。
The plane, Flight QZ8501, left the Indonesian city of Surabaya around 5:30 a.m. for the short hop to Singapore, a flight that usually takes about two hours, the airline said. Air traffic control lost contact with the Airbus A320-200 at 6:17 a.m., about 40 minutes later, Indonesian officials said.
亚航称，这架QZ8501航班客机早晨5点30分从印尼泗水市起飞，飞往新加坡，航程约两小时。印尼官方说，约40分钟后，在6点17分，空管与这架空客A320-200型客机失去了联系。
“At this time, search-and-rescue operations are in progress, and AirAsia is cooperating fully and assisting the rescue service,” the airline said in a statement on Facebook.
航空公司在Fecebook网页上发布声明，声明说：“目前，搜救工作正在进行，亚航正全力协助救援。”
The airline said in the statement that in addition to the 155 passengers on the plane — including 16 children and one infant — two pilots and five cabin crew members were onboard.
航空公司说，除了155名乘客——包括16名儿童和一名婴儿——机上还有两名飞行员和五名机组成员。
Shortly before losing contact with the aircraft, the cockpit informed air traffic controllers in Jakarta that it was planning to rise from 32,000 feet to 38,000 feet to avoid a cloud, Djoko Murjatmodjo, the acting director general of Air Transport at Indonesia’s Ministry of Transportation, told reporters at a news conference in Jakarta.
印尼交通部官员德约科·慕尔雅特默德约在记者会上说，失联之前不久，飞机驾驶员曾与雅加达空管联系，称准备把飞行高度从3.2万英尺提升到3.8万英尺，避开云层。
“At the moment, we don’t know where the exact location is, except that this morning at 0617, we lost contact,” Mr. Djoko said. The Singapore authorities said contact was lost at 6:24 a.m. Jakarta time; the discrepancy has not been explained.
“目前我们不知道确切地点，我们只知道失去联系的时间是今晨6点17分，”德约科说。新加坡官方说失联时间是雅加达时间6点24分。两种说法为何不一致，目前还无人解释。
Earth Networks, a company that tracks weather conditions across the globe, said it had recorded a number of lightning strikes “near the path” of Flight 8501 on Sunday morning between 6:09 and 6:20.
监测全球天气情况的公司地球网络(Earth Networks)称，公司在周日早晨6点09分到6点20分之间曾在8501航班的航路上记录到多次闪电。
Mr. Djoko said the authorities had not detected any emergency distress beacons that are normally triggered by an accident.
德约科说，官方未监测到任何由事故触发的紧急呼叫信号。
“Therefore we cannot assume anything yet,” he said.
“因此我们还不能遽下结论，”他说。
Of the nationalities on the plane, there were 156 Indonesians, three South Koreans, one Singaporean, one Malaysian and one French citizen, AirAsia said.
亚航说，机上人员包括156名印度尼西亚人、三名韩国人、一名新加坡人、一名马来西亚人和一名法国人。
The Malaysian founder of the airline, Tony Fernandes, said in a Twitter message on Sunday that he was traveling to Surabaya where most of of the passengers on the jet were from.
亚航的马来西亚创始人托尼·费尔南德斯在Twitter上说，他将赶往泗水，失联客机上多数人来自泗水。
The captain of the flight was identified as Irianto, who like many Indonesians uses only one name. The first officer was identified as Remi Emmanuel Plesel, whom the Indonesian media said was a French citizen.
客机的机长被指认为艾利安托，像很多印尼人一样，他只有单名。副机长是雷米·伊曼纽尔·布雷塞尔。印尼媒体说他是法国人。
Indonesia dispatched marine vessels and aircraft to assist in the search, the authorities said. Singapore also activated its air force and navy to assist in the search.
印尼已经派遣海军陆战队的舰船和飞机协助搜索。新加坡也调动了空军和海军。
Airbus said in a statement Sunday that the aircraft was delivered to the airline in 2008.
空客周日发表声明说，这架飞机是2008年交付亚航的。
Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman, said that President Obama, who is vacationing in Hawaii, had been briefed on the search for the plane, and that “White House officials will continue to monitor the situation.”
白宫发言人埃里克·舒尔茨说，正在夏威夷度假的奥巴马总统已经了解了客机失踪的情况，并说“白宫官员将继续关注”。
Flightradar24, a website that uses a global system of beacons to monitor air traffic, said the aircraft was flying at 32,000 feet over the Java Sea when the aircraft’s signal was lost.
航空监测网站Flightradar24报告，飞机失去联系时在爪哇海上空3.2万英尺。
AirAsia, which is based in Malaysia, is one of the world’s fastest-growing airlines and competes with Malaysia Airlines, which lost contact with MH 370 in March. That flight remains missing.
亚航总部在马来西亚，是世界扩张最快的航空公司之一，与马航竞争。马航MH370航班仍下落不明。