NEW YORK — In Chinatown in Manhattan, it is the ultimate feel-good holiday: a time for joy, for festive red bunting and for stocking up on dumplings and rice-flour cake. Discord and heavy thoughts, according to custom, can wait until after the Lunar New Year.
纽约——在曼哈顿的唐人街，这是最为欢乐祥和的假期：人们欢度佳节，张灯结彩，备足了饺子和年糕。按照习俗，所有的矛盾和沉重的思考都可以等到农历新年以后再说。
But even as Phil Gim, a businessman in Whitestone, Queens, sent holiday greetings to friends and relatives in China through WeChat, a popular social media app, he found himself preoccupied with grimmer news. Churning through WeChat was a torrent of messages denouncing the indictment this month on manslaughter charges of Peter Liang, the Chinese-American police officer whose ricocheting bullet killed an unarmed black man, Akai Gurley, in a housing project stairwell in November.
不过，当皇后区白石镇的商人菲尔·吉姆(Phil Gim)用十分流行的社交媒体应用微信向亲朋好友发送节日祝福时，他发现自己已经被大量不那么愉快的消息淹没。微信上潮水般的信息都在谴责彼得·梁(Peter Liang)本月因杀人罪名遭到的起诉。去年11月，在一栋住宅建筑的楼梯间里，这名华裔美国警察打出的子弹在弹跳之后射中了手无寸铁的黑人男子阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)。
The shooting came as the country awaited the decisions of grand juries weighing charges in the deaths of two other unarmed black men: Michael Brown, who was shot and killed by the police in Ferguson, Mo., and Eric Garner, who died on Staten Island after an officer placed him in a chokehold during a confrontation. Now, Mr. Gim and others said that with the Brooklyn grand jury’s decision to indict Officer Liang, he “is being sacrificed for all the injustices that happened.”
枪击事件发生时，美国正在等待大陪审团做出决定，他们正在权衡另外两名手无寸铁的黑人男子遭枪击身亡事件中所涉及的指控。这两名男子分别是，在密苏里州弗格森被警察枪击身亡迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)，以及在斯塔顿岛的冲突中被警察掐住脖子后死亡的埃里克·加尔那(Eric Garner)。如今，吉姆和另外一些人表示，布鲁克林的大陪审团决定正式指控梁警官，使他“成了之前所有这些不公正事件的牺牲品”。
“The climate is crying out for the indictment of a police officer,” Mr. Gim said last week at a restaurant in Flushing, Queens, where he and other supporters of Officer Liang had gathered for dim sum.
“起诉一名警察是大势所趋，”吉姆上周在皇后区法拉盛的一家餐厅里说。他与梁警官的其他支持者正聚集在那里吃点心。
For Chinese immigrants in New York City and elsewhere, recent events have provided an opportunity for a rare public reckoning with one of their adopted country’s most volatile fault lines. Though Officer Liang and one of the two New York officers killed in an anti-police ambush in December shared a Chinese heritage, Chinese-Americans have so far figured little in the debates over police misconduct and racial injustice that have roiled the country.
对于纽约市和其他地方的华裔移民来说，最近的几起事件提供了一次机会，让所有人都开始思考这个国家最容易引发动荡的一处裂痕。尽管梁警官和12月份在一次针对警察的袭击中遇难的两名纽约警官之一都是华裔，到目前为止，华裔美国人在关于警察的不当行为和种族歧视的讨论中几乎没有发出声音。
Now Chinese-Americans, too, find themselves divided.
如今，华裔群体中也出现了分歧。
Some have hesitated, reluctant to find politics or racial discrimination in the indictment of Officer Liang. Others have hailed the charges against him as a means of improving relations between the police and all minorities. But for some, the indictment is nothing less than the scapegoating of a young officer whose parents may have to live without their only son — and a call to arms for a minority group that has never been as politically active as blacks or Hispanics.
一些人很犹豫，不愿意在对梁警官的指控中寻找政治或种族歧视的因素。还有一些人认为，对彼得·梁的指控是改善警方与所有少数族裔关系的一种途径。但对于一些人来说，这一指控相当于让一位年轻的警官当了替罪羊，可能会让他的父母失去唯一的儿子——而且还是一个战斗的号令，号召为在政治上从来不像黑人或西班牙裔那样活跃的一个少数群体而战。
“We don’t want to be pushed around anymore, or picked on anymore,” Mr. Gim said. “We’re going to fight back.”
“我们再也不要任人摆布，任人指摘了，”吉姆说，“我们要还击。”
Mr. Gim and his lunchmates first met on WeChat after the death of Officer Wenjian Liu, who was shot in December. Now they are reaching out to the Chinese-language press, contacting lawyers to advise Officer Liang and planning a protest march in New York, a city with the largest Chinese population outside of Asia. An online petition opposing the indictment that was started in California by a member of the Chinese-American community has garnered more than 100,000 signatures.
吉姆是去年12月刘文健警官遭枪击身亡之后，在微信上认识这些午餐伙伴的。现在，他们正在接触中文媒体，联系律师为梁警官提供咨询服务，并且计划在纽约举行一次抗议游行。纽约是亚洲之外华人最多的城市。加州的一名华裔美国人在网络发起了反对起诉梁警官的请愿书，已经收集到了逾10万个签名。
The indictment has galvanized other Chinese-American leaders, but in a different way.
起诉梁警官的决定还激怒了其他华裔领袖，但后者有着不同的考虑。
To say that Officer Liang has been singled out misses the bigger picture, those leaders argue. Asians have also suffered at the hands of police officers, they say, and it is time for them to join the chorus of black and Latino voices calling for reform.
这些领袖说，梁警官受到了不公正对待的说法，没有抓住问题的关键。他们说，警察也让亚裔苦不堪言，他们与黑人和拉美裔共同呼吁改革的时候到了。
“Peter Liang being Asian only means that all cops need to be held accountable, regardless of skin color,” said Cathy Dang, the executive director of CAAAV Organizing Asian Communities, an advocacy group in New York that works with Asian immigrants from several countries. “We should use this indictment as fuel for us to organize even harder to hold the white officers who’ve killed accountable.”
“彼得·梁是亚洲人，这只是意味着所有的警察都应该为自己的行为负责，与肤色无关，”纽约的倡导组织亚裔反暴力联盟(CAAAV)的执行主任凯茜·丹格(Cathy Dang)说。该组织为来自多个国家的亚洲移民服务。“我们应该以这次起诉为动力，更努力地组织起来，让杀人的白人警官同样承担法律责任。”
Councilwoman Margaret Chin, a Democrat who represents the Chinatown neighborhood, also called for Officer Liang to be indicted, saying the filing of charges would be a step toward reforming a police force that she said has unfairly targeted Asians as well as blacks and Latinos.
民主党人玛格丽特·金(Margaret Chin)是代表唐人街社区的市议员，她也呼吁起诉梁警官，称提出指控是对警方实施改革的一步，她说，警方一直不公正地以亚裔、黑人以及拉美裔人士为目标。
Officers have not had nearly as many fatal encounters with Chinese, she and other Chinatown leaders acknowledged. The last one to attract attention in New York was the fatal shooting in 1995 of a 16-year-old boy, Yong Xin Huang, who was playing with a pellet gun in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. Two decades before that, Chinatown residents marched on City Hall to protest the alleged police beating of Peter Yew, an engineer who had been a bystander at the scene of a traffic dispute.
她和唐人街的其他领袖们承认，警方与华人之间的流血冲突并不多。上一次引起关注的此类事件发生在1995年，16岁男孩黄永新（Yong Xin Huang，音译）遭枪击身亡，他当时正在布鲁克林羊头湾玩一把霰弹枪。在这件事发生的20年前，唐人街的居民曾游行到市政厅抗议，缘由是据称警方殴打了在一场交通纠纷现场旁观的工程师彼得·杨（Peter Yew，音译）。
“Let the judicial system take its course,” Ms. Chin said in an interview. “We can reform the whole system so everyone can get equal treatment.”
“让司法体系自然地发展，”金在接受采访时说，“我们可以改革整个制度，这样人人都能得到同等的对待。”
In some ways, Officer Liang’s case seems all too easy to slice along racial lines. Like Mr. Gurley, the shooting victim, the Brooklyn district attorney, Kenneth P. Thompson, is black; the judge who oversaw the officer’s arraignment, Justice Danny K. Chun of State Supreme Court, is Korean-American. After Justice Chun granted the prosecutors’ request to release the officer on his own recognizance, Mr. Gurley’s aunt spat out: “Asian judge!”
从一些方面来看，梁警官的案子似乎太容易产生种族方面的联想。与这次枪击事件的受害者格利一样，布鲁克林地区检察官肯尼思·P·汤普森(Kenneth P. Thompson)也是黑人；监管对梁警官的传讯过程的州立最高法院的法官丹尼·宗(Danny K. Chun)是韩裔。在宗法官批准了检方在收取保证今后释放梁警官的请求之后，格利的姑母强烈抗议：“亚洲法官！”
Even so, Ms. Dang said she hoped to encourage Asian-Americans to find common cause with blacks. Her group had previously called for the indictments of the officers involved in the deaths of Mr. Garner and other unarmed black men.
即便如此，丹格说，她想要鼓励亚裔与黑人联合起来。她的机构之前曾经呼吁起诉导致加尔那和另外那名手无寸铁的黑人死亡的警察。
“When the Peter Liang case happened, it did make it a little more complicated to navigate between our different communities,” she said, adding, “I actually think there’s a growing investment in the organizing, especially by young Asian-Americans.”
“彼得·梁的案子发生时，协调不同群体的难度确实有所增加，”她说，“我真的认为在组织方面的投资在不断扩大，尤其是来自年轻亚裔的投资。”
The community leaders rallying around Officer Liang say they sympathize with Mr. Gurley’s family. But Officer Liang’s parents — who work in a restaurant and a garment factory and speak almost no English — are vulnerable as well, they said.
支持梁警官的社区领袖说，他们也同情格利的家人。但他们表示，梁警官的父母——他们分别在餐厅和制衣厂工作，几乎不会说英语——也是弱者。
To them, second-degree manslaughter is too harsh a charge for what they say was a mistake. They accuse Mr. Thompson, a Democrat who has criticized law enforcement practices that affect minorities disproportionately, of bowing to political pressure after the officer linked to Mr. Garner’s death was not indicted.
对于他们来说，二级谋杀的指控太过严厉，梁警官的行为只是一次失误。在加尔那死亡事件所涉警官被免于起诉之后，他们指责汤普森屈服于政治压力。汤普森是民主党人，曾批评过一些格外针对少数族裔的执法操作。
If Officer Liang’s indictment has prompted a political awakening of sorts for some, it has failed to stir passions in the working-class Chinese enclave within Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, where the Liangs live.
如果说对梁警官的起诉让一些人在一定程度上有了政治上的觉醒，但在布鲁克林本森赫斯特地区工薪阶层华人聚居区，这件事却没有激起多少热情。
As garment factory workers, appliance salesmen and waitresses along 18th Avenue in the neighborhood reached the end of the workday one evening last week, many said they had not followed the case. Most who were familiar with it declined to attach any political significance to the officer’s indictment, insisting it was not their place to do so. “This is something for the courts to decide,” Amy Chen, a bakery worker, said. “They’ll be fair.”
上周的一个晚上，这个社区18大道的制衣厂工人、家电销售和女服务员结束了一天的工作，许多人表示，自己没有关注这个案子。熟悉此案的人多数不愿为梁警官受到的起诉附加任何政治意义，他们认为这不是自己应该考虑的问题。“那得由法院来裁决，”烘焙店的工作人员埃米·郑（Amy Chen，音译）说。“他们会秉公处理。”