In just two decades, Asian-American support for the Democratic presidential candidate more than doubled, from the 31 percent Bill Clinton got in 1992 to the 73 percent cast for President Obama in 2012, according to exit polls.
出口民调数据显示，在仅仅20年的时间，亚裔美国人对民主党总统候选人的支持率就提高了一倍多，从1992年比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)得到的31%，上升到了2012年奥巴马总统得到的73%。
Today, Asian-Americans, a population of 17.2 million, are among the fastest growing constituencies of the Democratic Party.
今天，人口达1720万的亚裔美国人，是民主党增长最快的支持者群体之一。
In some ways, Asian-American voters, combining personal wealth, entrepreneurial success, high incomes, traditional family values and a strong work ethic, would seem to be ideal recruits for the more conservative political party. Nonetheless, the Republican Party has steadily lost their support.
亚裔拥有个人财富、在企业界成就卓著、收入水平高、抱有传统家庭观念和强烈的敬业精神，从某些角度看，亚裔选民似乎是较为保守的政党争取的对象。尽管如此，共和党却持续不断地失去他们的支持。
The accompanying chart, provided by Karthick Ramakrishnan, a professor of public policy and political science at the University of California, Riverside, shows the steady movement of Asian-Americans away from the Republican Party to the Democratic Party.
加州大学河滨分校(University of California, Riverside)公共政策和政治学系教授卡蒂克·拉马克利斯南(Karthick Ramakrishnan)提供的附图显示，亚裔选民持续从共和党流向民主党。
Asian-Americans have the potential to transform the Democratic coalition. They add a large block of voters who combine economic and educational achievement with deeply felt liberal convictions.
亚裔美国人有潜力改变支持民主党的阵营。他们向其中注入了一大群兼具经济与教育成就，并且坚信自由派观点的选民。
According to Taeku Lee, a political scientist at the University of California, Berkeley:
据加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)政治学教授李大九(Taeku Lee)说：
Asian-Americans are, their vaunted educational and economic successes notwithstanding, a group that has in various contexts experienced differential treatment and a group that in various contexts identifies as a minority group.
“尽管亚裔因其教育和经济成就而受到称赞，但这个群体在各种情况下经历过差别待遇，也在各种情况下认同为少数族裔。”
In addition, Lee wrote in an email responding to my inquiry:
此外，李大九在一封回应我询问的电邮中写道：
Today’s Asian Americans are not only liberal on the expected issues like health care reform, immigration reform, and educational reform, but they also seem to espouse liberal views across a wide range of unexpected issue areas like environmental politics, affirmative action, and the like. We even find, in our 2012 National Asian American Survey, that nearly 2 out of every 3 Asian Americans who report earning more than $250,000/year supported an approach to reducing the federal budget deficit that would raise taxes on those earning more than $250,000-a-year.
“今天的亚裔美国人不单在医疗改革、移民改革和教育改革等意料之中的议题上倾向自由派，在环境政治、平权行动等很大一部分出人意料的议题上，他们似乎也持自由派立场。在2012年的全美亚裔调查(National Asian American Survey)里，我们甚至发现，在报告称年收入超过25万美元亚裔当中，近三分之二支持一项削减联邦预算赤字的措施，该措施要向年收入超过25万美元的人增税。”
There is one issue, race or ethnicity-based affirmative action, on which Asian-American loyalty to the liberal agenda is more conflicted.
现在出现一个问题，就是以种族或族裔为基础的平权行动，导致亚裔对自由派议程的忠诚出现了分歧。
More than 60 Asian-American groups have filed complaints with the Department of Justice and the Department of Education charging that preferences for African-Americans and Hispanics at Harvard and other selective colleges have reduced the number of Asian- Americans accepted. The complaints are based on the fact that Asian-Americans as a group have substantially higher standardized test scores and grades than competing demographic groups, including whites.
有60多个亚裔美国人团体已向司法部和教育部提出申诉，指控哈佛大学及其他一些顶尖院校优先取录非裔和西语裔学生的倾向，降低了亚裔学生的入学名额。申诉是基于以下事实提出的：亚裔群体在标准化测试中的分数和水平，比包括白人在内的竞争人群要高出很多。
The complaints prompted a separate coalition of 135 Asian-American civil rights groups to declare its firm support of affirmative action
这些投诉促使135个亚裔民权团体，组成了另外一个联盟，声明对平权行动的坚定支持。
The accompanying chart, compiled from data provided by the College Board, shows that college-bound Asian-Americans received the highest average SAT scores in 2015 of any group.
由美国大学理事会(College Board)提供的数据编制而成的附图显示，2015年SAT考试中，在所有族裔里，寻求升入大学的亚裔学生获得的平均分是最高的。
The cumulative score on all three SAT tests – critical reading, math and writing – was 1654 (out of a possible 2400) for Asian-Americans, 1576 for whites, 1277 for African-Americans, and 1343 for Mexican-Americans.
SAT三项考试（批判性阅读、数学和写作）的总分，亚裔为1654分、白人为1576分、非裔1277分、墨西哥裔1343分。满分2400分。
A 2005 study published in the Social Science Quarterly, “The Opportunity Cost of Admission Preferences at Elite Universities,” by Thomas J. Espenshade, a professor of sociology at Princeton, and Chang Y. Chung, a statistician at Princeton’s Office of Population Research, found that “Asian applicants are the biggest winners if race is no longer considered in admissions” at “three highly selective private research universities” which the authors declined to identify. The Asian share of those accepted at such institutions would grow from 23.7 percent to 31.5 percent, they wrote.
2005年，普林斯顿大学社会学教授托马斯·J·埃斯彭席德(Thomas J. Espenshade)和普林斯顿人口研究办公室(Office of Population Research)的统计学家郑昌勇（Chang Y. Chung，音）在《社会科学季刊》(Social Science Quarterly)上发表了题为《精英大学录取偏好的机会成本》(The Opportunity Cost of Admission Preferences at Elite Universities)的研究，发现“如果大学录取过程不再考虑种族因素，亚裔申请者会是最大的赢家”，研究是在“三所顶尖私立研究型大学”进行的，作者拒绝透露院校的名字。他们写道，那些大学的亚裔学生入学比例会由23.7%升至31.5%。
Asian-American resistance to race-based affirmative action surfaced in California last year when leaders of the Democratic-controlled State Legislature considered putting a referendum before the voters to restore race-conscious admission policies at public colleges and universities. Asian-American voters flooded legislators with phone calls and emails opposing race-based preferences, prompting three Asian-American Democratic state senators to declare their opposition. Legislative leaders dropped their plans for a statewide referendum.
去年，由民主党控制的加利福尼亚州州议会考虑让选民举行公投，决定是否在公立高校恢复考虑种族背景的录取政策，亚裔美国人对基于种族的平权行动的抵触由此显露出来。亚裔选民纷纷向议员打电话和发邮件，表达对种族偏好的反对，以致州议会的三名亚裔民主党参议员表明了反对立场。议会领导人物只好放弃了全州公投的计划。
Affirmative action aside, support for the liberal agenda is solid among the broad population of Asian-Americans.
对于平权行动之外的自由派议程，广大亚裔选民则给予了坚定的支持。
Janelle Wong, a professor of American studies at the University of Maryland, emailed in response to my query:
马里兰大学(University of Maryland)美国研究系教授黄吉娜(Janelle Wong)在电邮中回应了我的询问：
Asian Americans tend to support a strong social safety net and stronger role for government in everyday life.
“亚裔美国人倾向于支持强大的社会保障体系，让政府在日常生活中发挥更有力的左右。”
Wong noted that on a key polling question that tests political ideology, “58 percent of Asian Americans, versus 39 percent of the U.S. population in general, supports a ‘bigger government with more services’ over a ‘smaller government with fewer services.’ ”
黄吉娜指出，在衡量政治意识形态的一个关键问题中，“58%的亚裔美国人支持‘大政府多服务’多过‘小政府少服务’，而在美国人口总体中，只有39%的人持同样立场。”
The same tilt to the left is clear on other issues, according to Wong: “Asian Americans are more likely than the U.S. public in general to support Obamacare and to support environmental protection over economic growth.” In the case of immigration, support among Asian-Americans for a path to citizenship for the undocumented has grown steadily, Wong writes, “so, as the Republicans’ rhetoric on immigration has become more punitive, the community has actually moved in the opposite direction.”
同样的左倾立场在其他议题上也很明显，黄吉娜说，“亚裔美国人比一般美国公众更支持奥巴马医改(Obamacare)，也更支持环境保护应优先于经济发展。”黄吉娜写道，在移民问题上，对于向无证件移民提供成为公民的渠道，亚裔群体的支持度也在稳步提高。“因此，共和党在移民问题上的言论愈发尖厉之时，亚裔社群实际上走向了相反方向。”
The political liberalism of Americans of Asian descent is notable given their affluence, success in the marketplace and the high status of jobs they hold.
亚裔美国人富裕、在市场上获得了成功，而且身居要职，使其自由派政治倾向更加引人注目。
Asian-Americans, according to the Pew Research Center, “are the best-educated, highest-income, fastest-growing race group in the country.”
皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)称，亚裔“是美国学历最高、收入最多、增长速度最快的族群。”
In 2014, median household income for Asian-Americans was $74,297; for whites, $60,256; for Hispanics, $42,491; and for African-Americans, $35,398.
在2014年，亚裔的家庭收入中位数是74297美元；白人是60256美元；西语裔是42491美元；而非裔则是35398美元。
Three out of five in the Asian-American work force have a college degree, compared with 37 percent of whites, 27 percent of African-Americans and 18 percent of Hispanics. Fifty percent of Asian-Americans have managerial or professional jobs, compared with 39 percent of whites, 29 percent of African-Americans and 20 percent of Hispanics.
亚裔就业人口中，有60%拥有大学学历，而白人是37%，非裔是27%，西语裔是18%。一半亚裔从事管理或专业工作，相比之下，白人是39%，非裔是29%，西语裔是20%。
Asian-Americans also stand apart from other Americans of all races and ethnicities in family structure. The percent of out-of-wedlock births among Asian-Americas in 2013 was 17 percent, just over half the 29.3 percent rate for whites and far below the 53.2 rate for Hispanics and the 71.5 percent rate for African-Americans.
与其他种族和族裔的美国人相比，亚裔美国人的家庭结构也截然不同。2013年，亚裔非婚生比率是17%，仅比白人(29.3%)的一半高出一点，远低于西语裔(53.2%)和非裔(71.5%)。
The work ethic is robust among Asian-Americans, who believe by 42 points (69-27) that “most people can get ahead if they’re willing to work hard.” Among all American adults, it’s a much smaller 18 points (58-40).
亚裔抱有很强的工作热情，相信“只要努力，多数人都能出人头地”的比例，比不相信的人高出42个百分点（69%对27%）。在全体美国成年人当中，这种意见差距只有18个百分点（58%对40%）。
On the divisive issue of abortion, Asian-Americans are more liberal than the general electorate. By 17 points (54-37), Asian-Americans believe abortions should be legal in most or all cases, compared with an eight point spread (51-43) in the general public, according to the Pew Research Center.
对分歧严重的堕胎议题，亚裔美国人的态度比整体选民更加开放。根据皮尤研究中心的调查数据，支持在大多数情况下堕胎应该合法化的亚裔，比持反对意见者多出17个百分点（54%对37%）。相较而言，一般大众支持堕胎合法化的，只比反对的多8个百分点（51%对43%）。
What can we make of all this data? There are a few preliminary inferences.
从以上数据中可以得出什么结论？以下是一些初步推断。
The first is that despite their affluence, Asian-Americans are on course to become a mainstay of what Stan Greenberg, the Democratic pollster, calls the “rising American electorate”: the liberal alliance of black and Hispanic minorities, single women and young voters.
首先，虽然亚裔经济宽裕，但他们正在变成民主党民调专家斯坦·格林伯格(Stan Greenberg)形容为“崛起的美国选民”里的中坚力量。这些选民是由黑人、西语裔、单身母亲和年轻选民组成的自由派联盟。
In this respect, Asian-Americans are similar to another minority voting group with strong Democratic ties, American Jews. They, too, have incomes and educations well above average. The Pew Research Center found that 42 percent of Jewish households had an income of $100,000 or more, compared with 18 percent of all American households. Along similar lines, 58 percent of Jews have college degrees, compared with 29 percent of the entire population.
在这方面，亚裔美国人与另一个和民主党关系紧密的少数族裔相似，即美国犹太裔，后者同样在收入和教育程度上远高于平均水平。皮尤研究中心调查显示，42%的美国犹太裔家庭年收入超过十万美元，相较之下，全美收入达到该水平的家庭只有18%。与之相似，58%的犹太裔拥有大学学历，而总人口中只有29%的人拥有。
Jewish support for Democrats is similar to that of Asian-Americans. According to Pew, 70 percent of Jews identify themselves as Democrats or lean toward the Democratic Party, and 22 percent are Republican or lean Republican. Asian-Americans share with blacks, Hispanics and Jews an experience of previously marginalized status and social exclusion. These four constituencies also share a belief that a commitment to hard work and self-reliance does not conflict with a belief in a strong government and a reliable safety net.
根据皮尤数据，70%的犹太裔认为自己是民主党人，或倾向于民主党；22%认为自己是共和党人，或倾向于共和党。亚裔美国人与黑人、西语裔、犹太人一样，都有过被边缘化和被社会排挤的经历。这四大选民团体秉承着同样的信念：自力更生地勤勉工作，与支持有力的政府以及可靠的社会保障并不冲突。
Such views stand in direct contrast to those of the Tea Party and Wall Street wings of the Republican Party, both of which see self-reliance and big government as antithetical to each other.
这种观点与共和党内的茶党和华尔街派系大相径庭。他们都认为，自力更生与“大政府”的观点相互矛盾。
It may prove that the values that Asian-Americans, Jews, blacks and Hispanics share will create sufficient cohesion to sustain a liberal coalition, even as some members of the coalition fail to ascend the socioeconomic ladder in lockstep with the others. That is the current conundrum of the upstairs-downstairs American left.
这或许体现出，亚裔美国人、犹太人、黑人和西语裔秉承的相似价值观，已经足够凝聚成一个自由派联盟。然而这个联盟中的一些成员，未能在社会经济阶梯上，与其他人同步前进。这正是跨越阶层的美国左派所面临的一个大问题。
Their Republican adversaries, who have themselves fielded a multiracial and multiethnic set of presidential candidates, are determined to fight fire with fire, as they claim to be the party most committed to upward mobility. When voters go to the polls a year from now, these Republican claims will be tested as never before.
他们的共和党对手推出了各个族裔的总统候选人，决心以牙还牙。共和党宣称，他们是最重视阶层向上流动的政党。一年之后，当选民们前去投票时，共和党的此番宣言就将受到前所未有的检验。