In the past few weeks, there has been a lot of talk around the Brooklyn courts about what Justice Danny K. Chun will do when he takes the bench on Thursday to sentence Peter Liang, the former police officer convicted two months ago in the fatal shooting of Akai Gurley in a housing project stairwell.
过去几个星期，布鲁克林的法律界人士经常在讨论：法官丹尼·K·田(Danny K. Chun)周四坐上审判席时，面对彼得·梁(Peter Liang)会做出怎样的量刑决定。因为在一栋公房住宅楼的楼梯间开枪导致阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)死亡，前警员彼得·梁于两个月前被判有罪。
Some lawyers say Justice Chun, 54, of State Supreme Court is likely to follow the Solomonic path cleared for him by Ken Thompson, the Brooklyn district attorney, who pursued Mr. Liang on manslaughter charges but then softened the conviction by suggesting in a letter last month that he face no time in prison. Others say that Justice Chun has no choice but to jail Mr. Liang, and that even a brief prison term would send a tough message compared to Mr. Thompson’s recommendation.
54岁的田法官是纽约州最高法院（为纽约州初审法院——译注）的法官。一些律师认为，他可能会沿着布鲁克林地区检察官肯·汤普森(Ken Thompson)为他开辟的睿智道路走下去——汤普森推动判定彼得·梁犯下过失杀人罪，但随后在上个月的声明中对判决做了软化处理，建议免除他的牢狱之灾。还有一些律师表示，田法官别无选择，只能把梁关进牢房；即便只关很短一段时间，相对于汤普森的建议，也可以传达出某种强硬的讯息。
But in the fractious world of the Brooklyn bar, where seven lawyers might have eight opinions, there seemed to be agreement on one issue: that Justice Chun was singularly suited to render a decision in the complicated case.
但在布鲁克林法律界这样一个充满了分歧、七位律师没准儿会有八种意见的世界里，大家似乎就一件事达成了共识：就这桩复杂的案件而言，田法官是极为适合做决定的人选。
“He’s a very contemplative, thoughtful and diligent judge — no-nonsense in his demeanor,” said Michael Farkas, the president of the Kings County Criminal Bar Association, which is honoring Justice Chun at a gala on Saturday. “There are some highly emotional feelings about this case, as everybody knows. But bottom line: I know for a fact that he will do the right thing as he sees fit.”
“他是一位喜欢沉思默想、思维缜密、细致勤勉的法官——言行举止干净利落，”金斯县刑事律师协会(Kings County Criminal Bar Association)主席迈克尔·法卡斯(Michael Farkas)说。该协会在周日的一场活动中对田法官进行了表彰。“人人都知道，这个案子牵涉一些高度情绪化的东西。但最重要的一点是：我知道他会做出自己认为合适的正确决定。”
Born in Seoul, Danny Chun came to New York with his family in 1973. They settled first in Elmhurst, Queens, then moved to nearby Bayside, where his father worked as a real-estate broker before becoming a minister. A driven and religious man himself, according to his friends, Mr. Chun attended Johns Hopkins University and obtained degrees in political science and philosophy. He went on to the Fordham University School of Law and upon graduation, in 1987, joined the Manhattan district attorney’s office as its first Korean-American prosecutor.
丹尼·田出生于首尔，1973年跟随家人一起移居纽约。他们起初住在皇后区艾姆赫斯特，后来搬到附近的贝赛。在那里，他父亲先是做房地产经纪人，后来成了牧师。按照朋友们的说法，田法官是一个积极进取、内心虔诚的人。他曾经在约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)求学，获得政治学和哲学学位。随后他去了福坦莫大学法学院(Fordham University School of Law)，1987年毕业后加入驻曼哈顿的联邦地区检察官办公室，成为那里的首位美籍韩裔检察官。
While working at the district attorney’s office, where he handled homicides and Asian gang cases, Mr. Chun once returned to Fordham Law for a student career day and found himself as one of the few public servants in a room of corporate lawyers.
在地区检察官办公室工作期间，田主要负责处理杀人案以及与亚裔团伙有关的案件。有一次他回到福坦莫大学参加学生职业发展日活动，发现自己是一屋子公司法务人员中间为数不多的政府公务员之一。
“I still remember what he spoke about that day,” said Chad Sjoquist, a former Fordham student who became a lawyer and, eventually, a friend of Justice Chun’s. “He said: ‘If you want to sit at a desk all day and make lots of money, go work at a firm. But if you want to do something interesting and something that matters, become a D.A.’”
“我仍然记得他那天说的话，”曾经就读于福坦莫大学，然后当上了律师，最终和田法官成了朋友的查德·肖奎斯特(Chad Sjoquist)表示。“他说，如果你想一天到晚坐在办公桌边，大赚特赚，那就去公司工作。但如果你想做些有趣的、重要的事情，那就当地区检察官吧。”
Justice Chun is not known for an effusive personality, and over the years he has built a reputation for being objective and evenhanded.
田法官并不以富于激情著称；多年来，他树立的是客观、公正的名声。
The sentencing of Mr. Liang — the most prominent and, perhaps most troublesome, of Justice Chun’s career — will put those qualities to the test. Though caught up in the furor over the death of Eric Garner, who died after being put in a police chokehold in July 2014 on Staten Island, the Gurley case never neatly fit the narrative of other police killings of unarmed black men around the country.
给彼得·梁量刑——田法官的职业生涯中最引人注目、或许也是最棘手的工作——会成为上述品质的试金石。虽然埃里克·加尔那(Eric Garner)之死——2014年7月，加尔那在斯塔滕岛被一名警察锁喉后死亡——引发的怒火影响到了格利案，但该案与其他发生在美国多个地区的警察导致手无寸铁的黑人男性死亡的案件并不完全一样。
There was no confrontation or direct interaction between Mr. Liang and Mr. Gurley, who died from a ricocheting bullet that Mr. Liang fired while on patrol in November 2014 in a dark stairwell of the Louis H. Pink Houses in East New York. And the prosecutors who tried Mr. Liang acknowledged that while he acted recklessly and failed to help his victim after the bullet struck, there was no evidence that he meant to kill or even injure Mr. Gurley.
2014年，彼得·梁在纽约市东部路易斯·H·平克公屋(Louis H. Pink Houses)黑暗的楼梯间里执行巡逻任务时开枪射击，弹跳的子弹击中格利致其死亡。梁和格利之间既没有对抗，也没有直接互动。而且起诉梁的检察官承认，虽然梁行为莽撞，在子弹击中受害人之后也没有及时施救，但并没有证据表明他蓄意杀害甚至是伤害格利。
Beyond those facts, the case was politicized almost from the moment it began. For Mr. Thompson, a Democrat who is Brooklyn’s first black district attorney, that meant balancing his sense of justice and the evidence against competing constituencies in the New York Police Department and in the city’s black community, which immediately called for Mr. Liang to be charged.
除了上述事实，该案从发生的那一刻起就政治化了。汤普森为民主党人，是布鲁克林的第一位黑人地区检察官。对他而言，此事意味着要在两股力量之间走钢丝，一边是正义感与证据，另一边则是纽约市警察局里和该市黑人社区里意见相悖的支持群体。 
Some lawyers have said that Justice Chun will now face similar pressures. As the city’s first Korean-American judge, he has faced impassioned calls — mostly in the form of petitions and letters to the court — from New York’s Asian-American community to show leniency to Mr. Liang, who is of Chinese heritage.
一些律师指出，田法官将面临同样的压力。作为纽约市的第一位韩裔法官，他不断听到该市亚裔群体慷慨激昂的呼声——其载体多为给法庭的请愿书和信函——诉求是希望身为华裔的彼得·梁予获得宽大处理。