SOUDERTON, Pa. — Two thick blankets wrapped in a cloth tie lay near a single pillow on the red leather sofa in Phuong Lu’s living room. Doanh Nguyen, Ms. Lu’s 81-year-old mother, had prepared the blankets for a trip she wanted to take. “She’s ready to go to Vietnam,” Ms. Lu said.
宾夕法尼亚州索德顿——在吕凤(Phuong Lu)家起居室的红色皮沙发上，摆着一个单人枕头和用布条绑着的两块厚毯子。吕凤今年81岁的母亲阮盈(Doanh Nguyen)收拾好行李是为了离开这里，她这样打算已经很久了。吕凤说，“她已经准备好回越南了。”
But Ms. Nguyen would not be leaving. The doors were all locked from the inside to prevent her from going anywhere — not to the coating of snow that had fallen that day outside Ms. Lu’s suburban Philadelphia home, and certainly not to her home country, Vietnam.
但阮盈走不了。为了防止她走到什么地方，门都从里面锁上了。她无法走出在费城郊区的家，到门外的雪地上，老人哪儿也不能去，更回不了祖国越南。
Ms. Nguyen has Alzheimer’s disease, and Ms. Lu, 61, a manicurist who stopped working two years ago when her mother’s condition worsened, is her full-time caretaker. In Vietnam, if a couple has children, the children must stay home and care for their parents, Ms. Lu said. Elders “don’t want nursing home,” she said: Being in a nursing home creates “trouble in the head.” The family now relies financially on Ms. Lu’s husband, a construction worker.
阮盈患有阿尔茨海默病，随着病情的加重，现年61岁的美甲师吕凤已经在两年前放弃了工作，全职照顾母亲。吕凤说，在越南，如果一对夫妇有孩子，孩子就必须待在家里照顾父母。她说，老人“不想去养老院”，住养老院的话“脑子会有毛病”。现在家庭的开销都由吕凤当建筑工人的丈夫承担。
In a country that is growing older and increasingly diverse, elder care issues are playing out with particular force and resonance for many Asian-Americans. The suicide rate for Asian-American and Pacific Islander women over 75 is almost twice that of other women the same age. In 2012, 12.3 percent of Asian-Americans over 65 lived in poverty, compared with 9.1 percent of all Americans over 65. Nearly three-quarters of the 17.3 million Asians in the United States were born abroad, and that population faces the most vexing issues.
美国人口日益老龄化，也日益多元化，对许多亚裔美国人而言，赡养老人产生了沉重的问题，也产生了极大的反响。亚裔美国人及太平洋岛民中，75岁以上女性的自杀率是其他族群同龄女性的两倍。2012年，65岁以上的亚裔美国人中有12.3%处于贫困中，对于65岁以上的全体美国人而言，这一比例为9.1%。居住在美国的1730万亚裔人口中，有近四分之三是在美国以外出生的，这一人群面临的问题最为棘手。
Language barriers and cultural traditions that put a premium on living with and caring for the elderly further complicate the issue at a time when the population of older Asian-Americans is surging. According to the Administration on Aging, an agency of the Health and Human Services Department, the number of Asian, Hawaiian and Pacific Islanders over age 65 is expected to grow to 2.5 million by 2020 and 7.6 million by 2050, from less than one million in 2000.
随着亚裔美国人老龄人口的激增，语言障碍，以及注重老少同堂、赡养老人的文化习俗让这个问题显得更为复杂。美国卫生与公众福利部(Health and Human Services Department)下属机构老龄化管理局(Administration on Aging)预测，年龄超过65岁的亚裔、夏威夷裔和太平洋岛民人数，到2020年将增至250万，到2050将增至760万，这一数字在2000年尚不足100万。
Asian-Americans are hardly alone in their commitment to care for aging relatives themselves. Many Hispanic families share a belief in “familialismo,” the idea that family members will take care of one another. But despite those cultural expectations, more Latinos are entering nursing homes, and long-term care facilities that specifically serve Latinos are increasingly in demand. Also, finding a home health aide or nursing home supervisor who speaks Spanish is usually much easier than finding one who speaks, say, Khmer.
并非只有亚裔美国人会努力亲自照顾年迈的亲人。许多西语裔家庭也都笃信“家庭价值观”(familialismo)，认为家人应当相互扶助。但是尽管有这些文化上的预期，仍然有越来越多的拉丁裔人口进入了养老院，而专门服务拉丁裔的长期护理机构也越来越紧俏。此外，举例来说，找到会讲西班牙语的家庭护工或养老院主管，通常也比寻找会讲高棉语的护理人员容易得多。
Zhanlian Feng, a senior research analyst at RTI International who has studied demographic shifts, said that filial piety, or respect for one's elders — a concept based on Confucian philosophy — was a large part of Asian-Americans' cultural expectations surrounding elder care.
研究人口结构变迁的冯占联是RTI国际研究所(RTI International)的高级研究分析师。他说，尊敬长者的孝道是植根于儒家哲学的一种观念，这在亚裔美国人对赡养老人的文化预期中占有很大地位。
“This idea that the younger generation is culturally mandated to take care of their parents is deeply ingrained in the Chinese culture,” Feng said. “Children are supposed to take care of older parents in need. That's the tradition.” But that tradition is slowly being eroded, he said, by the increasing number of families that are geographically dispersed or in which both spouses have to work.
“这种年轻一代有一种照顾父母的文化义务的观念，已经深深地植入了中国文化中，”冯占联说。“人们都预期孩子们该照料需要关怀的年迈父母。这是传统。”然而他也说，由于地理上相隔甚远，或者夫妇都需要工作的家庭越来越多，这种传统正在慢慢受到侵蚀。
That is changing somewhat both here and in Asia. The aging population has forced some communities in China to create nursing homes and assisted-living facilities, which barely existed in the country years ago, Feng said. And retirement communities for Asian-Americans are becoming increasingly popular.
无论是在美国还是在亚洲，都在发生这样的转变。冯占联说，人口老龄化已经迫使中国的一些社区建立养老院，以及照顾起居的养老设施，这种机构在数年前还难得一见。在美国，针对亚裔美国人的退休人员服务设施也变得越来越流行。
Health care providers in the United States must confront culturally sensitive questions like whether to address someone by their first name or whether to ask someone who may have been a refugee about war trauma. Language barriers, particularly for those Asian-Americans who do not speak English and rely on their children for help navigating elder care systems, are also a major hurdle, said Kun Chang, the Northeast regional coordinator at the National Asian Pacific Center on Aging.
美国的医护机构也必须要面对一些文化上的敏感问题，对老人能否直呼其名，该不该对或许曾当过难民的老人，询问关于战争创伤的问题。全美亚太裔耆老中心(National Asian Pacific Center on Aging)东北地区协调人张昆(Kun Chang)指出，语言障碍也是一个主要问题，尤其是对于那些不会讲英语，要靠子女的帮助才能应付养老体系的亚裔美国人而言。
Mr. Chang said that limited English proficiency among older Asian-Americans was “the No. 1 issue.” “Are we able to address that culturally and with linguistic services?” he said. “When you cannot communicate with someone, how can you get further information?”
张昆表示，老年亚裔美国人中有限的英语水平是“第一大问题”。“我们能用语言服务从文化上应对这个问题吗？”他问道。“如果不能与人沟通，怎么能取得更深入的信息？”
For Ms. Lu, putting her mother in a nursing home where she would be unable to communicate with the staff is, at the moment, not an option. Instead, through a program offered by Penn Asian Senior Services, known as Passi, she is learning how to care for her mother at home. But despite Ms. Lu’s sunny demeanor, the strain of caregiving is becoming evident.
对吕凤来说，把她的母亲送进无法与医护人员沟通的老人院里，目前是不能考虑的。不过，通过宾州亚裔老人服务中心（Penn Asian Senior Services，简称Passi）提供的项目，她正在学习该怎样在家照料母亲。尽管吕凤表面看来很乐观，但照料老人的重担仍然显而易见。
“I don’t work, but I’m so tired,” she said. “Sometimes it makes me crazy, too.”
“我不工作，可是我总是很累，”她说。“有时候都快把我逼疯了。”
The challenges Ms. Lu and so many others are facing underscore the need for culturally competent elder care services for Asian-Americans, said Im Ja Choi, the founder and executive director of Passi, which offers training classes for home health aides who speak languages including Korean, Mandarin and Vietnamese.
吕凤和其他许多人面对的挑战突显出，亚裔美国人亟需熟稔文化的人士提供照料老人的服务，Passi的创始人和执行总监崔任慈（Im Ja Choi，音译）表示。这家机构为会讲韩语、普通话和越南语的家庭护工提供培训课程。
Ms. Choi founded the organization after her own mother developed stomach cancer. “When she was sick, I could not just abandon her at a nursing home,” Ms. Choi said. “That’s not in my culture, either.” She added: “That’s the agony of Asian-Americans. They have to work, and their children go to school and their parents remain at home by themselves. They put them in a senior housing complex, and there they are alone.”
崔任慈在自己的母亲罹患胃癌后创办了这家机构。“她生病后，我不能直接把她送到养老院去，”崔任慈说。“那也不符合我的文化。”她还说：“那是亚裔美国人要承受的痛苦。他们得去工作，孩子们也得上学，就只能让父母自己待在家里。要是把父母送进养老院，老人就会很寂寞。”
The need for services that would allow Asian-Americans to keep their loved ones at home, where they can speak their own language and eat familiar foods, has had an impact on Ms. Choi’s organization. The center is expanding to a new two-building, 29,300-square-foot facility in Philadelphia, where it will provide ethnic meals, a community center, counseling, caregiver training and other activities for clients of a variety of Asian nationalities, including Cambodian, Chinese and Korean. Ms. Choi said that the center would also serve non-Asian clients and that the aides there had worked with patients of other races and ethnicities.
亚裔美国人需要一些能让他们在家照料亲人的服务，老人在家里可以讲自己的语言，吃熟悉的食物。这种需求对崔任慈的机构也产生了影响。这家位于宾夕法尼亚州的中心规模正在扩大，将移至一所有两栋楼，面积29300平方英尺（约合2700平方米）的设施。该中心将在那里为包括柬埔寨人、中国人、韩国人在内的许多亚裔族群，提供民族饮食、社区中心、心理咨询、护理人员培训等项目。崔任慈说，这个中心也会服务非亚裔客户，该机构的护工也为其他种族和民族的患者提供过服务。
“I am a proponent for home care because my mother, who everybody predicted wouldn’t live more than two months, lived eight years under my care,” she said. “That’s living proof.”
“我之所以大力推动在家照顾年长者，是因为我自己的母亲就是一个活生生的例子，”她说。“所有人都预料她活不过两个月了，可是在我的照顾下，她活了八年。”
Pheng Kho, 68, came to the United States from Cambodia in 1981 with his wife, his two children and his mother, Oun Oy. In 2012, Ms. Oy, 90, had a stroke that left her unable to perform many daily tasks. “After she left from the hospital, at that time she cannot stay home alone,” Mr. Kho said. “She cannot do anything like prepare a meal by herself.”
今年68岁的彭科(Pheng Kho)是1981年从柬埔寨来到美国的，一同来到美国的还有他的妻子、母亲和两个孩子。彭科的母亲温奥(Oun Oy)今年已经90岁了。2012年，温奥患了中风，于是许多日常活动都没办法自己做。“她出院回家后，不能一个人待在家里，”彭科说。“像自己做饭这种事，她根本做不来。”
He and his wife tried to care for Ms. Oy alone but soon realized that, while they did not want to send her to a nursing home, they needed help. “She don’t want to go there,” Mr. Kho said of a nursing home. “When she was in the emergency room, she wanted to go home.” In the summer of 2012, the family contacted Ms. Choi’s organization, and they now have a Cambodian home health aide who visits twice a week.
他和妻子曾尝试独自照顾温奥，但很快就意识到，尽管他们不想把老人送到养老院，但他们的确需要帮助。彭科谈到养老院时说，“她不想去那里。她一进急救室就想回家了。”2012年夏天，这家人联络了崔任慈的机构，于是他们现在有了一名柬埔寨护工，每周家访两次。
Chang of the National Asian Pacific Center on Aging said that as the aging Asian-American population increased, he expected to see more community groups and nonprofit organizations trying to provide tailored elder care services. Mainstream long-term care providers are just beginning to realize the challenges in serving the Asian elderly, he said.
全美亚太裔耆老中心的张昆说，随着亚裔美国人老龄人口的增多，他预期会有更多社区团体和非营利组织应运而生，提供有针对性的老人护理服务。他说，主流的长期护理提供者才刚刚开始认识到服务亚裔老人时的挑战。
“They haven't figured this out because they have to think in a very different way to address this issue,” Chang said. “They have to hire more bilingual staff to design these services. It's a cultural change.”
“他们没有想明白这一点，因为他们必须要用一种很不同的方式思考，才能应对这个问题，”张昆说。“他们必须聘请更多双语职员来设计这些服务，这是种文化转变。”