Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, has yet to make a public peep about “The Everything Store,” a major biography of Mr. Bezos and his company that was published last month.
亚马逊(Amazon)的创始人杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)尚未对上月出版的《万货商店》(The Everything Store)公开做出评论。这是一本关于贝佐斯及其公司的重要传记。
But his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, has made her displeasure known — on the book’s Amazon.com page.
他的妻子麦肯齐·贝佐斯(MacKenzie Bezos)却让自己的不满显露无遗，而且还是在这本书的Amazon.com页面上。
In a scathing 922-word review posted on Monday, Ms. Bezos described the book, written by Brad Stone, as “a lopsided and misleading portrait of the people and culture at Amazon.”
这则尖锐的评论长达922个单词，周一出现在网站上。麦肯齐·贝佐斯称，布拉德·斯通(Brad Stone)写的这本书“对亚马逊人及公司文化进行了颇为偏颇的误导性描述”。
“I have firsthand knowledge of many of the events,” Ms. Bezos wrote. “I worked for Jeff at D.E. Shaw, I was there when he wrote the business plan, and I worked with him and many others represented in the converted garage, the basement warehouse closet, the barbecue-scented offices, the Christmas-rush distribution centers, and the door-desk filled conference rooms in the early years of Amazon’s history. Jeff and I have been married for 20 years.”
“我亲身经历了很多相关事件，”她写道。“在德劭(D.E. Shaw)的时候，我在杰夫手下工作；他起草商业计划的时候，我就在现场；在亚马逊的创业期，我和他与书中提及的许多人并肩工作在改装车库、地下小仓库、带着烧烤味的办公室、圣诞高峰期的配送中心，以及塞满简易桌的会议室。杰夫和我已经做了20年的夫妻。”
“The Everything Store” has received raves for its comprehensive and meticulously researched details about Amazon’s history and Mr. Bezos’s conception of the company. Mr. Stone, the author, is a senior writer for Bloomberg Businessweek and a former reporter for The New York Times.
由于对亚马逊的历史及贝佐斯的公司理念进行了全面而周密的细节研究，《万货商店》收获了一片赞扬之声。作者斯通是彭博商业周刊(Bloomberg Businessweek)的高级撰稿人，曾在《纽约时报》任记者。
In Ms. Bezos’s review, which is the only one-star review of “The Everything Store,” she accused Mr. Stone of making factual errors and, noting that Mr. Bezos was “never interviewed for this book,” took issue with Mr. Stone’s use of the phrases “Bezos believed” and “Bezos felt.” Readers, she wrote, should “take note of how seldom these guesses about his feelings and motives are marked with a footnote indicating there is any other source to substantiate them.”
麦肯齐·贝佐斯的评论是书籍页面上唯一给《万货商店》打了一星的评论。她谴责斯通犯下事实错误，指出他从未“因本书采访”贝佐斯本人，而且对他使用“贝佐斯认为”和“贝佐斯感觉”这样的说法有意见。她写到，读者应当“注意，那些对他情感与动机的猜测很少加了脚注，表明是否还有任何其他来源可以证实所述观点”。
Sarah Gelman, a spokeswoman for Amazon, confirmed that the review was written by Ms. Bezos.
亚马逊的发言人萨拉·格尔曼(Sarah Gelman)证实了这则评论来自麦肯齐·贝佐斯本人。
Reagan Arthur, the publisher of Little, Brown, said in an email that Mr. Stone’s book was “scrupulously sourced and reported.” “'The Everything Store’ has been reviewed widely and praised for its evenhandedness,” she said.
利特尔与布朗出版公司(Little, Brown)的发行人丽根·阿瑟(Reagan Arthur)接受邮件采访称，斯通的书“资料详实、写作严谨”。她还表示，“《万货商店》收到了众多评论，因其不偏不倚而广受赞誉。”
While Mr. Stone did not interview Mr. Bezos specifically for his book, he spoke to him periodically over the years and said that he interviewed more than 300 people who work or previously worked at Amazon.
尽管斯通没有专为本书采访传主，但他多年来不时与贝佐斯交谈，自称采访过300多个曾经及目前在亚马逊工作的人。
Ms. Arthur acknowledged one mistake in the book pointed out by Ms. Bezos: the year that Mr. Bezos read the novel “The Remains of the Day” by Kazuo Ishiguro. The error will be corrected in subsequent printings.
阿瑟承认，麦肯齐·贝佐斯的确指出了书中的一处谬误：贝佐斯阅读石黑一雄(Kazuo Ishiguro)的小说《长日留痕》(The Remains of the Day)的年份。未来的版本中将予以更正。
In a statement late Monday, Craig Berman, Amazon’s vice president for global communications, said: “Over the course of the author’s reporting, Amazon facilitated meetings for him with more than half a dozen senior Amazon executives, during which he had every opportunity to inquire about or fact-check claims made by former employees. He chose not to.” Ms. Bezos, who grew up in San Francisco, is the author of a novel, “Traps,” that was published by Knopf in March.
亚马逊负责全球通讯公关的副总裁克雷格·伯曼(Craig Berman)在周一晚间发表声明称：“作者撰写此书的过程中，亚马逊协助他与至少六名亚马逊高管会面。这期间，他有充分的机会询问核实前雇员的各种说法。但他选择不这样做。”麦肯齐·贝佐斯在旧金山长大。今年3月，克诺夫出版社(Knopf)发行了她的小说《陷阱》(Traps)。