SEATTLE — Within a few years, Amazon.com’s creative destruction of both traditional book publishing and retailing may be footnotes to the company’s larger and more secretive goal: giving anyone on the planet access to an almost unimaginable amount of computing power.
西雅图——再过几年，亚马逊(Amazon.com)对传统的图书出版业和零售业的创造性破坏，或许就会成为该公司更大、更隐秘的目标的一个注脚：让地球上每个人，都能使用规模庞大到不可思议的计算机运算能力。
Every day, a start-up called the Climate Corporation performs over 10,000 simulations of the next two years’ weather for more than one million locations in the United States. It then combines that with data on root structure and soil porosity to write crop insurance for thousands of farmers.
一家名为气候公司(Climate Corporation)的创业企业每天都会对美国境内超过一百万个地点，未来两年的天气情况进行超过1万次模拟。随后，该公司将根系结构和土壤孔隙度的相关数据，与模拟结果相结合，为成千上万的农民提供农作物保险。
Another start-up, called Cue, scans up to 500 million e-mails, Facebook updates and corporate documents to create a service that can outline the biography of a given person you meet, warn you to be home to receive a package or text a lunch guest that you are running late.
另一家名为Cue的创业企业，扫描了多达5亿条电子邮件、Facebook更新，以及企业文档，并以此建立了一项服务，可以为你勾勒出你遇到的某个特定的人的生平、提醒你在家查收一个包裹，或者给一个约好一起吃午餐的客人发短信说你会迟到。
Each of these start-ups carries out computing tasks that a decade ago would have been impossible without a major investment in computers. Both of these companies, however, own little besides a few desktop computers. They and thousands of other companies now rent data storage and computer server time from Amazon, through its Amazon Web Services division, for what they say is a fraction of the cost of owning and running their own computers.
这两家创业公司需要执行的计算任务，如果放在十年前，就需要作出巨大的电脑投资才有可能实现。然而这两家公司，除了几台台式电脑之外，就没有什么别的设备了。这两家企业和其他成千上万的公司一样，现在都通过亚马逊网络服务（Amazon Web Services，简称A.W.S.），从亚马逊公司租用数据存储空间和服务器的使用时间。这两家公司称，上述服务的费用，只是自行购置和运行、维护服务器所需成本的一小部分。
“I have 10 engineers, but without A.W.S. I guarantee I’d need 60,” said Daniel Gross, Cue’s 20-year-old co-founder. “It just gets cheaper, and cheaper, and cheaper.” He figures Cue spends something under $100,000 a month with Amazon but would spend “probably $2 million to do it ourselves, without the speed and flexibility.”
“我现在有10名工程师，但如果没有A.W.S.，我敢肯定得需要60名。”Cue共同创始人，20岁的丹尼尔·格罗斯(Daniel Gross)说，“这令我们的成本越降越低、越降越低。”他估算道，Cue使用亚马逊服务的费用每月低于10万美元，而“靠自己则大约需要200万美元，而且达不到那样的速度和灵活性。”
He conceded that “I don’t even know what the ballpark number for a server is — for me, it would be like knowing what the price of a sword is.”
他承认，“我甚至连一台服务器的大概价格都不知道，对我来说，就像不知道一把剑的价格是多少一样。”
Cloud computing has been around for years, but it is now powering all kinds of new businesses around the globe, quickly and with less capital.
云计算(cloud computing)已经存在多年，它目前在全球范围内为各式各样的初创企业提供支持，快捷、而且需要较少资本投入。
Instagram, a 12-person photo-sharing company that was sold to Facebook for an estimated $1 billion just 19 months after it opened, skipped the expenses and bother of setting up its own computer servers.
Instagram，一家12人的照片分享公司，开张刚刚19个月，就以10亿美元的估价被Facebook收购。该公司就绕过了建立自己的服务器的费用和麻烦。
EdX, a global online education program from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard, had over 120,000 students taking a single class together on A.W.S. Over 185 United States government agencies run some part of their services on A.W.S. Millions of people in Africa shop for cars online, using cheap smartphones connected to A.W.S. servers located in California and Ireland.
麻省理工学院和哈佛大学共同发起的全球性在线教育项目EdX就曾通过A.W.S.，让超过12万名学生同听一堂课。超过185个美国政府机构，将他们的部分服务在A.W.S.上运行。在非洲，数以百万计的人们使用廉价的智能手机，连接到位于加利福尼亚和爱尔兰的A.W.S.服务器，在网上买车。
“We are on a shift that is as momentous and as fundamental as the shift to the electrical grid,” said Andrew R. Jassy, the head of A.W.S. “It’s happening a lot faster than any of us thought.”
“我们正在经历一场转变，其影响如同建立电网带来的转变一样重要而深远。”AWS的负责人安德鲁·R·贾西(Andrew R. Jassy)说道，“转变发生的速度大大超出我们任何人的想象。”
He started A.W.S. in 2006 with about three dozen employees. Amazon won’t say how many people now work at A.W.S., but the company’s Web site currently lists over 600 job openings.
他在2006年创立了A.W.S.，当时只有30多名员工。亚马逊拒绝透露现在有多少人在AWS工作，不过该公司网站上列出了600多个职位空缺。
Amazon’s efforts are just the start of a global competition among computing giants. In June, Google fully introduced a service similar to A.W.S. Microsoft is also in the business with its offering, Windows Azure.
亚马逊的努力只是电脑巨人们全球性竞争的开始。 今年6月，谷歌全面启动了一项类似于A.W.S.的服务；微软(Microsoft)也推出了Windows Azure服务，加入了这一领域。
If only for competitive reasons, Amazon does not say much about A.W.S. However, it is estimated to bring in about $1 billion to Amazon. Its three giant computer regional centers in the United States, in Virginia, Oregon and California, each consist of multiple buildings with thousands of servers.
可能只是出于竞争方面的原因，亚马逊对A.W.S.没有透露太多信息。然而，据估计A.W.S.给亚马逊带来了约10亿美元收入。A.W.S.在美国有三个地区性的巨型计算机中心，分别位于弗吉尼亚州、俄勒冈州、和加利福尼亚州，每个中心都有数栋建筑物和成千上万台服务器。
There are others in Japan, Ireland, Singapore and Brazil. And the pace of its expansion has quickened. It opened four of those regions in 2011 and is believed to be building a similar number now. Jeff Bezos, the chief executive of Amazon, is interested in setting up cloud-computing installations for other governments.
A.W.S.在日本、爱尔兰、新加坡和巴西也有数据中心，而且扩张的步伐正在加快。A.W.S.在2011年为这四个地区建立了数据中心，预计还要建设数量与现在相近的数据中心。亚马逊首席执行官杰夫·贝索斯(Jeff Bezos)，对于为其他国家的政府建立云计算系统很感兴趣。
According to an executive with knowledge of Amazon’s operation who was not authorized to speak publicly, just one of the 10 data centers in Amazon’s Eastern United States region has more servers dedicated to cloud computing than does Rackspace, a public cloud company serving 180,000 businesses with more than 80,000 servers.
据一位了解亚马逊的经营情况，但却未被授权公开发言的高管透露，就亚马逊在美国东部地区的10个数据中心而言，仅仅一家数据中心里专用于云计算的服务器数量，就超过了Rackspace公司。后者是一家公共云计算公司，利用超过8万台服务器为18万家企业服务。
Eventually, however, Mr. Jassy said, “we believe at the highest level that A.W.S. can be at least as big as our other businesses.” Amazon recorded nearly $50 billion in revenue last year. Mr. Jassy thinks A.W.S. is probably less than 10 percent of its eventual size.
贾西说道，“我们相信，A.W.S.最终至少可以和我们其他的业务一样庞大。”亚马逊去年的营业收入接近500亿美元。贾西认为目前A.W.S.可能还不到其最终规模的十分之一。
The lower cost of computing, along with overnight deployment of machines, drives the business. Germany’s Spiegel TV paid A.W.S. to make digital copies of 20,000 programs. It cost less than Spiegel would have paid for the electricity powering its own servers.
计算成本降低，以及一夜之间就可以的部署到位的设备，推动了这项业务的发展。德国Spiegel TV电视台向A.W.S.付款为2万个节目做了数字拷贝。如果该电视台使用自己的服务器，所需的电费都要比A.W.S.的服务费用高。 
All that data running through Amazon’s cloud also has value. People leave bits of data about themselves that others then analyze. At any given time on A.W.S., there are about one million uses of a powerful database, called Elastic MapReduce, that is used to make predictions. Some suggest a new movie or video game to play, while others log behavior for advertising, credit history or suggestions about whom to date. (Companies have to permit their data to be analyzed, and Amazon says it applies the same security standards it uses on its retail site.)
所有这些在亚马逊的云中流动的数据也都有价值。人们会留下关于自己的数据片段，他人随后会进行分析。在A.W.S.上任何一个给定的时间，Elastic MapReduce这个强大的数据库都会有大约100万次的调用，用于作出预测。一些用于为用户推荐新电影或新的电子游戏，而另一些则记录用户行为，用于投放广告、建立信用记录，或者推荐约会对象。（企业必须允许亚马逊分析其数据，而亚马逊则表示采取了与其自身零售网站相同的的安全标准。）
The efficiency of this hyper-aware environment is already remaking jobs for many and will most likely dislocate more. “You can now test a product against millions of users for just a few thousand dollars, or start a company with just one or two people,” said Graham Spencer, a partner at Google Ventures, which invests in data-heavy start-ups that rely on such cheap computing. “It’s a huge change for Silicon Valley.”
这种高度敏锐的环境，有极高的效率。它已经改造了许多人的工作形式，并且很有可能还将产生更大影响。“现在只花几千美元，就可以针对数百万用户测试产品，只需要一两个人就可以开一家公司。这对硅谷来说是一个巨大的转变。”谷歌风投(Google Ventures)的合伙人格雷厄姆·斯潘塞(Graham Spencer)说道，该公司的投资方向正是那些依赖这种廉价计算服务处理大量数据的创业企业。