If the strength of Seattle’s office market could be chalked up to one company, it would be Amazon.
如果将西雅图办公楼市场的强劲势态归功于一家公司，那就应是亚马逊(Amazon)。    
Last year, the online retailer was responsible for the city’s biggest deal, its largest lease and the purchase of the only large chunk of downtown land to come on the market in decades. Amazon bought its 1.8-million-square-foot headquarters last month from Vulcan Real Estate for $1.16 billion, the biggest office sale nationwide and a bold departure for a company that had been content to rent space until last year.
 去年（2012年），这家网络零售商促成了西雅图数额最大的一桩买卖，也是此市最大的一宗土地交易合约，标的为西雅图房地产市场内近几十年来出现的唯一一处市中心的大型地块。上个月（即2012年12月——译注），亚马逊通过Vulcan房地产公司(Vulcan Real Estate)买下180万平方英尺（约合16.73万平方米）的土地，作为其办公室总部，交易额高达11.6亿美元。这是美国全国迄今为止最大的一宗办公用地交易。对于亚马逊而言，这桩交易可谓一次大胆的出发。此前，这家公司一直安于待在租用的办公室里。
And it’s not done yet. Although Amazon leases or owns 2.7 million square feet of space in Seattle, the online retailer plans to more than double that figure when it breaks ground on three office towers of its own on the northern fringe of downtown this year. Amazon did not return calls seeking comment.
这还不算完。尽管亚马逊在西雅图租赁和购买的办公面积已达270万平方英尺（约合25.09万平方米），这家网络零售商还计划把这个数字至少翻一番，在今年内为三座市区北边的办公大厦奠基。亚马逊未对此发表评论。
Amazon’s flurry of activity has led to rent increases and a drop in office vacancy and has inspired confidence in the market. Other companies, largely led by technology firms, have shaved the vacancy rate to 10.7 percent at the end of last year, from 12.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to Kidder Mathews, a commercial real estate brokerage.
亚马逊的这一系列举动，导致了西雅图办公楼租赁市场的升温，及办公室空置率的显著降低，并激发了市场的信心。商业房产经纪人基德·马修(Kidder Mathews)表示，其他一些以科技公司为主的公司，已经将房屋空置率由2011年四季度的12.4%，降低到去年底的10.7%。
The biggest vacancy decrease has been in South Lake Union, an area north of downtown where Amazon’s stake in the neighborhood has drawn other companies looking for large floorplates and new buildings. In the last three years, about half of Seattle’s net absorption, or the amount of space companies leased and occupied, was in South Lake Union, where the vacancy rate fell to 5.4 percent from 9.3 percent, according to CBRE, a commercial real estate brokerage.
房屋空置率降幅最大的，是位于市区以北的South Lake Union地区。亚马逊涉足这片街区，引得其它公司纷纷在此寻找大型办公室和新楼盘。据商业房地产经纪公司世邦魏理仕(CBRE)称，过去三年中，西雅图大约有一半的净吸纳量(net absorption)——也即由公司租赁或购买的空间数量，都来自South Lake Union地区。这里的房屋空置率从9.3%下降到了5.4%。
“We’re seeing a lot of companies that want to be closer to Amazon and that synergy, whether they do business with Amazon or not,” said Jesse Ottele, a senior vice president at CBRE in Seattle.
“我们发现，许多公司都想要同亚马逊离得更近，产生协同作用，无论他们的业务是否与亚马逊相关。”世邦魏理仕的高级副总裁杰西·奥特尔(Jesse Ottele)说。
A tighter office market has pushed up rents across the city. The average rent rose to $29.19 a square foot at the end of last year, from $27.80 in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to Kidder Mathews. With few large blocks of Class A office space available and little new space expected to reach the market soon, brokers expect rents to go even higher this year.
办公楼市场变得紧张，推高了西雅图全市的房租。马修称，租金从2011年四季度的每平方英尺27.80美元（约合每平方米299.45美元），上涨至去年底的29.19美元（约合每平方米314.08美元）。由于市场中大面积的A级办公空间已所剩无几，短期内也无新盘入市，所以房产经纪人们预计，商业房产的租金今年还会继续上涨。
Developers are now talking about building again — even without a tenant. Eight million square feet of office space are in the works across the city, with more than half planned or under construction in South Lake Union, according to CBRE. Residential developers will also open 5,800 units this year, the most in decades, according to Dupre & Scott Apartment Advisors, a research firm.
现在，开发商们又开始讨论建楼了——就算承租人还未确定。据世邦魏理仕统计，在这座城市中，有800万平方英尺（约合74.35万平方米）的办公空间正被修建，其中超过一半是计划建于或已经建在了South Lake Union地区。一家名为Dupre & Scott Apartment Advisors的研究公司称，住宅开发商们今年也将拿出5800套公寓，是近几十年来房源投入量最大的一年。
Vulcan Real Estate is betting more companies will want to move to South Lake Union. Although the developer, which owns 30 percent of the land there, has built more than five million square feet of space in the last decade, it has up to seven million square feet of space left that it can build. This year, Vulcan is breaking ground on two office buildings leased to Amazon and a life-sciences research building. If the City Council raises height limits in the neighborhood this spring, Vulcan may move ahead with plans for two more office buildings and three 24-story residential towers.
Vulcan房地产公司将宝押在会有更多公司搬到South Lake Union地区这个判断上。尽管这家开发商拥有South Lake Union地区30%的建筑用地，过去十年间的建成面积已超过500万平方英尺（约合46.47万平方米），但他们在当地还剩有多达700万平方英尺（约合65.06万平方米）的土地可供建房。在今年，Vulcan公司会有两栋大厦破土动工，一栋租给亚马逊，另一栋则将成为一座生命科学研究大楼。如果市政当局今年春季放松对这一街区内办公楼的高度限制，Vulcan公司可能还将继续修建两座办公楼，及三座24层高的公寓大厦。
“We’re now looking to position ourselves for a recovering economy and teeing up speculative buildings,” said Ada Healey, a vice president at Vulcan Real Estate. “We want to be in a situation to take advantage of 2013.”
“我们现在寄望于自己身处一个复苏的经济当中，并将迎合时机着手兴建新楼，”Vulcan房地产公司副总裁埃达·黑利(Ada Healey)说，“我们希望在2013年占得先机。”
Other developers are also moving ahead in anticipation of the height rezoning. After purchasing blocks in South Lake Union in the last year and a half, Touchstone and Skanska, a Swedish development and construction company, submitted permits for three office buildings, for a total of 1.1 million square feet, that would exceed current limits. Company executives said they would consider building without a signed tenant.
基于对政府提高新建大楼高度限制的预期，其他开发商也开始有所行动。一年半前，瑞典房产开发与建筑公司Touchstone and Skanska在South Lake Union区买下几个街区。此后，这家公司为总面积达110万平方英尺（约合10.22万平方米）的三栋办公大楼提交了建设许可，这已超出了目前的限制。该公司的高层称，即便没有租赁合同，他们也会考虑兴建这些大楼。
“Sometime around mid-2012, we saw rents for Class A office that justified new construction,” said Lisa Picard, executive vice president of Skanska USA Commercial Development in Seattle. “The project is ready to start. We’ll look at the supply and demand of the market and decide whether to go.”
“大约在2012年6月前后，我们发现A级办公楼的租金水平足以支持新楼盘开工建设了，”总部位于西雅图的美国商业开发公司Skanska的执行副总裁丽莎·皮卡德(Lisa Picard)说：“项目随时可以开工。我们将根据市场的供给、需求状况，决定是否付诸实施。”
Seattle appears to be at the top of many investors’ shopping lists. The Urban Land Institute ranked the city as fourth-best in the country for office buildings thanks to its projected job growth of 1.2 percent and its roster of expanding brand-name companies like Starbucks, Nordstrom and Boeing. Real estate investors, who are looking for steady returns, have flocked to Seattle for its stable and growing companies.
西雅图似乎已跻身投资人目标清单的榜首。根据城市土地研究所(The Urban Land Institute)的数据，西雅图在办公楼兴建地排名中，位列全国第四。这得益于当地1.2%的预期就业增长率，以及花名册上越来越多诸如星巴克(Starbucks)、诺德斯特罗姆(Nordstrom)、波音(Boeing)的知名公司。因为西雅图拥有这些成长稳健的公司，一贯寻求稳定回报的房地产投资者们纷纷涌入了这座城市。
“The capital followed the fundamentals,” said Kevin Shannon, CBRE’s vice chairman in Los Angeles. “Seattle and San Francisco were the two stars in West Coast markets. A couple of years ago, I’m not sure Seattle would be on a core shopping list. We now have a lot of people looking at Seattle.”
“资本遵循着一些基本原则，”位于洛杉矶的世邦魏理仕副主席凯文·香农(Kevin Shannon)如是说，“西雅图和旧金山是西海岸市场中的两颗明星。若是在几年前，我不大确定能否把西雅图列入核心清单；但现在，我们有很多员工都在关注西雅图市场。”
The city’s investment market cemented its revival last year. The volume of deals skyrocketed 203 percent in 2012 over the previous year, to $5 billion, according to Real Capital Analytics, a research and consulting firm. Among the 14.5 million square feet sold, Amazon’s headquarters space is the largest.
这个城市的投资市场进一步巩固了去年的复兴势头。根据研究及咨询公司Real Capital Analytics提供的数据，西雅图2012年的总成交额猛升203%，达到50亿美元。在1450万平方英尺（约合134.76万平方米）的成交面积中，亚马逊总部是占地面积最大的一笔交易。
The sale of the Russell Investments Center building early last year, though, was perhaps the most significant of the year because it showed the city’s investment market had fully recovered. When the 42-story office tower was put up for sale in late 2011, it attracted 34 buyer tours, an “incredible” number, said Mr. Shannon of CBRE, which handled the sale. It sold last spring for $480 million — more than four times its purchase price in 2009.
去年早些时候成交的罗素投资中心(Russell Investments Center)大楼，或许是2012年最重要的一笔交易。因为这笔交易证明了，这座城市的投资市场已经全面复苏。当这栋42层高的办公大楼2011年底投入市场时，它吸引了34个买家团。这是个“不可思议”的数字，当时负责这笔交易的世邦魏理仕的香农称。去年，这座大楼以4.8亿美元售出，比其2009年购入价的四倍还多。
After its bid for the Russell building lost, Clarion Partners, an investment management company, looked for other buildings with the same “blue chip roster” and reliable rents, which it found at 1201 Third Avenue, the city’s second-tallest tower and a former headquarters of the failed Washington Mutual. Clarion advised on a deal to sell the 55-story tower for $548.8 million, the 10th-largest deal in the country last year, to a joint venture of MetLife and an unidentified institutional real estate investor.
一家名为Clarion Partners的投资管理公司在对罗素大楼的竞价失利后，旋即着手寻找其它租金收入可靠、又同罗素大楼一样属于“蓝筹”的楼盘。他们真的找到了这么一栋大楼，位于第三大道1201号，是西雅图当地第二高的大楼，也是已经破产的华盛顿互助银行的前总部所在地。Clarion公司以5.488亿美元的价格，将这座55层高的大厦卖给了大都会人寿保险公司(MetLife)与一家匿名的房地产机构投资人联合成立的合资企业，促成这桩去年全美规模第十大的房产交易。
“We expect it to continue to have blue chip tenancy and generate good, predictable cash flow,” said Steve Latimer, a managing director at Clarion Partners. “We’re not expecting spectacular headlines of tripling our money in three years, just steady growth.”
“我们希望租售市场能保持蓝筹势头，产生健康而持续的现金流”，Clarion Partners公司的常务董事史蒂夫·拉蒂默(Steve Latimer)说：“我们并不指望出现我们的钱在头三年里就翻几番这样爆炸性的新闻，只要能平稳增长就好。”
Seattle’s brisk sales pace may slow this year since so many office buildings have traded hands and there are few left.
西雅图的房地产交易速度在今年可能放缓，因为许多办公大楼都已名花有主，可供交易的所剩无几。