SAN FRANCISCO — Nearly every day, Amazon announces a new venture.
旧金山——几乎每一天，亚马逊(Amazon)都会宣布一项新的投资。
It just bought an online education company and introduced a payment mechanism for Internet retailers that competes with PayPal. It started selling wine for the first time in New York, updated its line of tablets, gave the go-ahead to three new comedy pilots and began a design competition for its fashion division. It is setting up mini-warehouses inside suppliers like Procter & Gamble to ship goods faster.
它刚刚收购了一家在线教育公司，还推出了一个面向网络零售商、与贝宝(PayPal)相竞争的支付系统。它首次在纽约开卖葡萄酒，更新了平板电脑产品线，新批准了三部试播版喜剧节目的制作，并启动了亚马逊时装部的设计比赛。此外，为了加快配送速度，它正在宝洁(Procter＆Gamble)等供货商内部建立迷你仓库。
But one thing it will not be announcing this month: a significant profit.
但它本月要宣布的事情中，并没有获得可观利润这一项。
Who cares? Amazon lost money in 2012, and analysts are anticipating another loss when the company releases its third-quarter results on Thursday. Yet the stock is at a record high.
谁在乎呢？亚马逊2012年处于亏损状态，而且分析人士预计，该公司周四发布第三季度的业绩时，亏损的消息将再次传出。但其股价目前却创下历史新高。
Amazon shares are up around 150 percent since mid-2010, which perhaps not coincidentally was the last time the company had sizable profits. In other words, investors really decided they loved the company only when net income began to slide.
与2010年中期相比，亚马逊股价上涨了150%左右。或许并非巧合的是，从那时起，该公司就没再实现过大规模盈利。换句话说，只有当净收入开始下滑时，投资者才真正得出结论：他们喜欢这家公司。
“This isn’t supposed to happen,” said William H. Janeway, an economist and venture capitalist. “It violates mainstream finance theory. Very few companies have been valued this way outside a systemic bubble.”
“本不该发生这样的事。”经济学家及风险投资人威廉·H·詹韦(William H. Janeway)说，“它与主流金融理论相悖。如果不存在系统性泡沫，很少有公司会被这样估值。”
No one is asserting that Amazon is a flat-out bubble, but there is an increasingly noisy debate about when it will — or even whether it can — deliver the sort of bottom-line profits that investors normally demand from a company expected to post $75 billion in revenue this year.
亚马逊今年的销售收入可望达到750亿美元（约合4560亿元人民币）。尽管没有谁宣称亚马逊完全是一个泡沫，但是投资者正在越来越激烈地争论，亚马逊的净利润什么时候才能达到投资者要求同等收入水平的其他企业实现的水平。
The company declined to comment.
该公司拒绝就此发表评论。
Some analysts point out that those sales are negligible when set against the market being targeted by Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and chief executive. “The market is effectively limitless: all of global consumer commerce and maybe business-to-business commerce as well,” said Mr. Janeway, author of “Doing Capitalism in the Innovation Economy.”
一些分析人士指出，相对于亚马逊创始人和首席执行官杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)的目标市场，那些销售收入根本不值一提。詹韦说，“市场实际上是无限的，包括全球消费品市场，或许还有B2B商务市场。”詹韦著有《创新经济中的资本主义经营》(Doing Capitalism in the Innovation Economy)。
With that prize as the goal, making money today would be a positive hindrance. As Benedict Evans, an analyst based in London, put it: “Bezos has chosen to run Amazon to be the biggest, most powerful and successful retailer on Earth 20 years from now. Any fool could run it profitably today.”
如果把争夺市场当作目标，现在就要赚钱的想法一定会妨碍这个目标。正如伦敦的分析师本尼迪克特·埃文斯(Benedict Evans)所言：“贝佐斯已经做出的选择是，让亚马逊在20年后成为世界上最大、实力最强、最成功的零售商。如果想让它现在就盈利的话，傻瓜都办得到。”
Others argue that once a discounter, always a discounter. Amazon is branching out into many forms of commerce and technology, but at its core it sells commodity goods cheaply. A book from Amazon is the same book that it would be from any other retailer, and so is a package of diapers. Amazon also ships cheaply and has renowned customer service.
另外一些人则认为，一朝是廉价零售商，就永远是廉价零售商。亚马逊正在大举涉足多种商业形态和多种形式的技术，但在本质上，它是一家廉价销售日用货品的公司，购买自亚马逊的书或者尿布，与来自其他任何零售商的并无不同。而且亚马逊运费低廉，客户服务的口碑也很好。
To make a significant profit, though, some or all of those variables will have to change, which might alienate customers and slow down that roaring revenue growth. That, in turn, would cause investors to demand profits even sooner.
不过，要获得可观的利润，就必须对上述可变因素进行部分或全部的调整，这样做可能造成顾客的流失，并让原本极快的收入增长出现放缓。而这反过来又会导致投资者要求公司更快地实现盈利。
Best not to venture down that road, said Colin Gillis, senior tech analyst at BGC Partners. “It is easier,” he said, “to sell things and not make money than it is to sell things and make money.”
最好别冒险走那条路，BGC Partners科技产业高级分析师科林·吉利斯(Colin Gillis)表示。他说，“比起卖出东西并且赚钱，卖出东西但不赚钱要容易一些。”
In this view, Amazon’s whirlwind of activity — a set-top box, thrusting it into more direct competition with Netflix, is expected to be announced any day, while the rumors of an Amazon smartphone will not cease — is merely a useful distraction from its retailing reality.
按照这种观点，亚马逊旋风一般的举动，只是对其零售业主体的有益补充而已。根据预期亚马逊可能很快就会推出一款机顶盒，从而更直接地与Netflix展开竞争，与此同时，亚马逊推出智能手机的传言也不会消失。
The premise that Amazon can change its business model from selling other people’s products at a razor-thin margin to selling other people’s products at a large margin “is not credible,” wrote Horace Dediu, an analyst with Asymco.
一种设想是，亚马逊可以改变自己的商业模式，从出售他人产品赚取微薄利润，变为出售他人商品赚取高额利润，但这种设想“是靠不住的”，Asymco公司的分析师贺拉斯·德迪欧(Horace Dediu)写道。
Companies simply do not shift their business model so simply, he added, noting that Microsoft, for all its money and smarts, still could not reorient its PC-based strategy to take advantage of the trend to mobile computing.
他还说，企业根本不会那么容易地改变商业模式，比如微软尽管既有钱又有智慧，但仍然无法转向，脱离基于PC的战略，抓住移动计算的趋势。
The current discussion about Amazon is reminiscent of the arguments about the company during the last systemic bubble, in 1999. Then, too, the corporate goal was to get big fast, to seize new markets before anyone else.
当前关于亚马逊的讨论，会让人回想起1999年上一次系统性泡沫发生时关于这家公司的辩论。当时和现在一样，企业的目标就是快速壮大，在其他人赶上之前，尽快抢占新市场。
But when the crash came, all the talk of unlimited potential disappeared. It was replaced by a fierce concentration on profits, which were described as being right around the corner.
但是崩盘发生时，所有“潜力无限”的谈论都消失了，人们开始严格地关注盈利，而亚马逊经常形容盈利就近在眼前。
Mr. Bezos said in 2001 that the retailer would “ferociously manage the products we carry so that we sell only products that are profitable. The 30-pound box of nails isn’t long for our world.” Investors were mollified and the company survived.
2001年，贝佐斯说亚马逊会“严格地管理所销售的产品，确保只销售有利润的产品。30磅一盒的钉子，已经不再适合我们的世界了”。这番话安抚了投资者，公司也生存了下来。
That was then. You can once again buy a box of 4,000 nails on Amazon (shipping weight: 38 pounds) and have them delivered to your door free. But the retailer has gone far beyond such modest offers. The Thunderbird Cookie Dropping Machine costs $32,329 and weighs 1,260 pounds, but Amazon will also ship it free. (It is currently out of stock.)
不过那是当时。现在，顾客又能从亚马逊上买到4000枚一盒的钉子了，配送重量38磅（约合17公斤），而且还能免费送货上门。但是这家零售商已经远远不再满足于这种平平无奇的优惠了，“雷鸟牌饼干制做机”(Thunderbird Cookie Dropping Machine)，售价32329美元，重量1260磅，可是亚马逊还是会免费帮你配送。（现在已经没货了。）
Commercial Food Services Equipment, a third-party vendor in Chicago, lists a Thunderbird for sale on Amazon, but charges almost $2,600 for shipping.
位于芝加哥的第三方销售商，商用食品服务设备公司(Commercial Food Services Equipment)在亚马逊上出售一台雷鸟机器，不过会收取2600美元运费。
“Amazon will sell many more cookie dropping machines than I will, but even if you buy from me instead of Amazon it will earn a commission on the sale and the shipping,” said Hyo Lee, the owner of Commercial Food. “Now you know why Amazon’s sales have gone from $34 billion in 2010 to $61 billion in 2012.”
“亚马逊卖出的饼干机要比我卖出的多很多。但即使你从我这里买，而不是从亚马逊买，亚马逊仍然能从销售额和运费中抽取提成，”这家设备公司的老板李孝（Hyo Lee，音译）说。“现在你知道为什么亚马逊的销售额从2010年的340亿美元，提高到2012年的610亿美元了吧？”
Still, she noted that Amazon was building dozens of warehouses across the country and hiring tens of thousands of employees for them. “It has all these fixed costs now,” she said. “I think they’ll have to start charging more for shipping.”
不过，她也提到亚马逊正在美国各地修建数十座仓库，也正在雇佣数万人来为这些仓库服务。“现在亚马逊有了这么多固定成本，”她说。“我觉得他们必须得开始收更多运费了。”
Others agree that nothing grows to the sky forever.
其他人也同意，没有什么东西能一直向上发展。
“At some point, the piper must be paid,” said George Colony, the chief executive of Forrester Research.
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)的CEO乔治·科隆尼(George Colony)说，“总有一天需要付出代价的。”
How? “By raising prices. I don’t see any other way.”
怎么支付呢？“提价，我看不到其他任何办法。”
Josh McFarland, chief executive of TellApart, a start-up that helps retailers manage their data, bought a $20 pair of flip-flops from Amazon. Then he found a pair he liked even more elsewhere, and prepared to return the Amazon set. The company told him not to bother. It would give him a refund anyway.
TellApart公司是一家帮助零售商管理数据的初创企业。该公司CEO乔希·麦克法兰(Josh McFarland)从亚马逊上买了一双20美元的人字拖，之后麦克法兰又从别的地方找到了一双更喜欢的人字拖，打算退掉从亚马逊买的那双。可是亚马逊却告诉他不用麻烦，会直接给他退款。
Few retailers feel they can afford to be so generous, but other Amazon shoppers have recently reported the same experience. It is a game for the long term; will customers remember next year what you did for them today?
没有多少零售商以为自己有实力做出这么慷慨的举动，可是亚马逊的其他购物者最近也说遇到了相同的经历。这是一个瞄准长远的策略，可是消费者明年还会记得你今天为他们做过什么吗？
“What Amazon is trying to do is raise my expectations so that I’ll eventually buy everything from it,” Mr. McFarland said. “At some point it won’t have any more competition, and I won’t know if prices are being raised because I’ll have nothing to compare it to.”
“亚马逊想做的是提高我对零售商的期待，从而最终让我什么东西都从亚马逊买，”麦克法兰说。“总会有一天，其他竞争者都消失了，到时候我也不会知道价格是不是提高了，因为已经没有比较对象了。”