The Washington Post, the venerable newspaper whose reporting helped end a presidency and inspired a generation of journalists, is being sold to the founder of Amazon.com, Jeffrey P. Bezos, in a surprise deal that has shocked the industry.
广受敬重的《华盛顿邮报》正在被出售给亚马逊(Amazon.com)的创始人杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)，该报的报道曾迫使一位总统下台，激励了一代记者。这项出人意料的交易震惊了整个行业。
Donald E. Graham, chairman and chief executive of The Washington Post Company, told the newspaper’s staff about the sale late Monday afternoon. They had gathered in the newspaper’s auditorium at the behest of the publisher, Katharine Weymouth.
周一下午晚些时候，华盛顿邮报公司(The Washington Post Company)董事长兼首席执行官唐纳德·格雷厄姆(Donald E. Graham)向报社员工通报了这项交易。按照出版人凯瑟琳·韦茅斯(Katharine Weymouth)的要求，报社员工聚集在了报社的礼堂里。
“I, along with Katharine Weymouth and our board of directors, decided to sell only after years of familiar newspaper-industry challenges made us wonder if there might be another owner who would be better for The Post (after a transaction that would be in the best interest of our shareholders),” Mr. Graham said in a statement.
“多年来，我们所熟知的报业挑战促使我们思考，（在进行一次最有利于我们股东的交易后）换一个所有者会不会对《华盛顿邮报》更有利，在此之后，我，还有凯瑟琳·韦茅斯和我们的董事会成员，才决定出售报纸，”格雷厄姆在一份声明中说。
The announcement stressed that Mr. Bezos would purchase The Post in a personal capacity, and not on behalf of Amazon, the Internet retailer. The deal includes all of the publishing businesses owned by The Washington Post Company, including the Express tabloid, The Gazette Newspapers in Maryland, Southern Maryland Newspapers, The Fairfax County Times, El Tiempo Latino and Greater Washington Publishing.
该声明强调，贝佐斯将以个人资本收购《华盛顿邮报》，不代表互联网零售商亚马逊。这项交易涵盖华盛顿邮报公司旗下的所有出版业务，其中包括小报《快报》(Express)、马里兰州的《公报》(The Gazette Newspapers)、《南马里兰报》(Southern Maryland Newspapers)、《费尔法克斯县时报》(The Fairfax County Times)、西班牙语报纸《拉美时报》(El Tiempo Latino)以及大华盛顿出版公司(Greater Washington Publishing)。
The Washington Post Company plans to retain Slate magazine, The Root.com and Foreign Policy magazine.
华盛顿邮报公司计划保留《Slate》杂志、The Root.com和《外交政策》杂志(Foreign Policy)。
According to the release, Mr. Bezos has asked Ms. Weymouth to remain at The Post along with Stephen P. Hills, president and general manager; Martin Baron, executive editor; and Fred Hiatt, editor of the editorial page.
声明称，贝佐斯已邀请韦茅斯、《华盛顿邮报》总裁兼总经理史蒂芬·P·希尔斯(Stephen P. Hills)、执行主编马丁·巴伦(Martin Baron)以及社论版主编弗雷德·希亚特(Fred Hiatt)继续留任。
“I am honored to continue as C.E.O. and publisher,” Ms. Weymouth said in a statement. “I have asked the entire senior management team at all of the businesses being sold to continue in their roles as well.”
“我很荣幸能继续担任首席执行官和出版人，”韦茅斯在一份声明中说，“我已经邀请所有待出售业务的整个高层管理团队留任。”
The sale to Mr. Bezos for $250 million ends eight decades of ownership by the Graham family. During that time, the longtime publisher, Katharine Graham, oversaw the paper as it became renowned not only for its news coverage of Watergate, the political scandal that led to the resignation of Richard Nixon, but also for its appearance in “All the President’s Men,” the Academy Award-winning 1976 film about the scandal.
贝佐斯以2.5亿美元（约合15.3亿元人民币）的价格收购该报，终结了格雷厄姆家族长达80年的掌控。其间，在资深出版商凯瑟琳·格雷厄姆(Katharine Graham)的管理下，该报渐渐声名远扬，不光是因为它报道了水门事件，也就是致使理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)辞职的政治丑闻，还因为它在1976年学院奖(Academy Award)获奖影片《总统班底》(All the President's Men)当中出了镜。《总统班底》是一部讲述水门事件的影片。
The Post’s daily circulation peaked in 1993 with 832,332 average daily subscribers, according to the Alliance for Audited Media. But like most newspapers, it has suffered greatly from declines in circulation and advertising. By March, the newspaper’s daily circulation had dropped to 474,767. The company became pressed enough for cash that Ms. Weymouth announced in February that it was looking to sell its flagship headquarters.
根据审计媒体联盟(Alliance for Audited Media)的数据，《华盛顿邮报》的日发行量在1993年达到顶峰，每天平均有83.2332万名订阅者。然而，像大多数报纸一样，该报的发行量及广告均出现大幅下降。截至今年3月，该报的日发行量降至47.4767万份。由于公司迫切需要现金，韦茅斯曾于2月宣布公司希望出售旗舰总部。
Mr. Graham said in statements released on Monday that the newspaper market had become too untenable.
格雷厄姆在周一发布的声明中表示，报业市场已经无法维持。
“As the newspaper business continued to bring up questions to which we have no answers, Katharine and I began to ask ourselves if our small public company was still the best home for the newspaper,” Mr. Graham said. “Our revenues had declined seven years in a row. We had innovated and to my critical eye our innovations had been quite successful in audience and in quality, but they hadn’t made up for the revenue decline. Our answer had to be cost cuts and we knew there was a limit to that. We were certain the paper would survive under our ownership, but we wanted it to do more than that. We wanted it to succeed.”
“随着报纸行业不断带来一些我们无法解决的问题，我和凯瑟琳开始扪心自问，我们的小型上市公司是否仍然是《华盛顿邮报》的最好归宿，”格雷厄姆说。“我们的收益已经连续七年下降。我们进行了改革创新，即便是以我挑剔的眼光来看，我们的创新举措也在受众及质量方面取得极大成功，但是，这并没有弥补收益下滑带来的损失。我们必须削减成本，可我们也知道，这种方法是有限度的。我们坚信报纸在我们的掌控下能够生存，但我们希望它做得更好。我们希望它取得成功。”