This week, Amazon revealed the location of its second brick-and-mortar bookstore, which will open in a few months in Southern California, at a mall near the University of California, San Diego. The online retailer seems to have big ambitions for its physical stores.
这个星期，亚马逊透露了自己的第二个实体书店地址，几个月之内，它将在南加利福尼亚，圣地亚哥的加利福尼亚大学附近一家购物中心内开放。这家网络购物商对实体书店有着巨大的野心。
On Wednesday, Nick Wingfield, who covers Amazon for The New York Times, visited the only Amazon bookstore in existence, in the University Village mall in Seattle. From inside the store, he had an online chat with Alexandra Alter, who writes about publishing for The Times. They discussed Amazon’s strategy and how the retailer’s stores differ from other bookstores. Here’s what they had to say:
星期三，为《纽约时报》报道亚马逊新闻的尼克·温菲尔德(Nick Winfield)探访了目前唯一的一家亚马逊实体书店，它位于西雅图大学村购物商场之内。他在店内与为《纽约时报》出版行业撰稿的亚历山大·奥尔塔（Alexandra Alter）进行了网上交谈，两人讨论了亚马逊的战略，以及这家零售商的书店与其他书店的不同之处。内容如下：
ALEXANDRA ALTER: Hi Nick! You’re reporting live from the mother ship! What’s it like?
亚历山大·奥尔塔：嗨尼克！你在他们的旗舰店现场报道呢！那儿怎么样？
NICK WINGFIELD: The best part is, I just tested the free Wi-Fi and it’s 114 Mbps, easily the fastest I’ve ever gotten. Thank you, Jeff Bezos!
尼克·温菲尔德：最棒的是，我测试了他们的免费Wi-Fi，速度是114 Mbps，是我上过的最快的免费Wi-Fi。多谢了杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)！
ALEXANDRA: Great, so you can just buy stuff from the Amazon website while you’re sitting in the store. Unlike Barnes & Noble, I bet Amazon doesn’t mind if people browse in its store then go buy it online.
亚历山大：真不错，所以你可以一边待在他们的实体店里，一边从亚马逊网站上买东西。这和Barnes & Noble可不一样。我打赌，亚马逊不会介意人们来实体店看货，然后在网上下单。
NICK: Exactly. Here’s the deal: At first glance, it looks like an ordinary but nice Barnes & Noble store. It’s clean and well-lit and corporate. It doesn’t have the charm of a funky used-bookstore. Once you start poking around the shelves, you notice the differences.
尼克：没错。是这样，乍看上去，它就和一家普通但是很不错的Barnes & Noble店没什么两样。很干净、光线不错，很公司化。没有那种新潮二手书店的魅力。但是等你开始在书架之间转悠，就能发现不同的地方。
ALEXANDRA: How is the selection different? How are the sections organized?
亚历山大：这部分有什么不一样？它的书籍分类是怎么组织的？
NICK: They have 5,000 to 6,000 book titles, fewer than what you would find at a big Barnes & Noble. All of the books are arranged cover out, rather than spine out, in the belief that it makes browsing more friendly. I am so buying that “Boho Crochet” book.
尼克：店里大概有五六千本书，比一家大型Barnes & Noble书店的书要少。所有书都是封面向外展示，不是书脊向外展示，是因为他们觉得这样更方便顾客浏览。我一定要买下那本《波西米亚钩针》(Boho Crochet)。
ALEXANDRA: Ha, I see Amazon is going big on adult coloring books — smart move since those have taken over the best-seller list on the website. Can you check something out for me? I heard that the store has a shelf of books recommended by Jeff Bezos. Is his wife MacKenzie’s novel there?
亚历山大：哈，我发现亚马逊正在大举推出成人填色书，这一步很不错，因为这类书籍横扫了网站上的畅销书排行榜。你能帮我找本书吗？我听说这家店里有一个书架，专门卖杰夫·贝佐斯推荐的书，他老婆麦肯锡(MacKenzie)的小说也在上面吗？
NICK: I’ll go look now.
尼克：我看看。
O.K., I’m back. You were right! He does recommend his wife’s book. He discloses his conflict of interest. But still …
啊，我回来了。你说对了！他确实推荐了他老婆的书，利益相关暴露了。不过没什么吧……
ALEXANDRA: Lucky guess. What else is he recommending?
亚历山大：碰运气猜的，他还推荐什么了？
NICK: Kazuo Ishiguro’s “The Remains of the Day” and “Seveneves” by the science-fiction writer Neal Stephenson, who incidentally used to work for Bezos’s space exploration company, Blue Origin.
尼克：石黑一雄的《长日留痕》(The Remains of the Day)，还有科幻小说家尼尔·史蒂芬森(Neal Stephenson)的小说《70》(Seveneves)，他曾经在贝佐斯的空间探索公司蓝色起源(Blue Origin)工作过。
ALEXANDRA: A man of diverse literary tastes. Here’s another thing I’m curious about. A lot of people in the publishing industry were worried when they heard Amazon planned to open bookstores, in part because they assumed Amazon would heavily promote books published through its own imprints. Amazon has had trouble getting those books into brick-and-mortar bookstores, which don’t want to sell books by its No. 1 competitor. But I’ve heard that the Amazon bookstore doesn’t carry many Amazon Publishing titles. Is that how it looks to you?
亚历山大：这人的文学品味还挺丰富的。还有一件事我很好奇。听说亚马逊要开书店，出版界的不少人都很担心，部分是因为他们觉得亚马逊肯定会大举推出他们自出版的书。亚马逊在把这些书推向实体店时遇到了麻烦，这些书店不想卖他们头号竞争者的书。但是我听说亚马逊书店和亚马逊出版没什么关系，你觉得呢？
NICK: I just asked a store employee and was told there’s no dedicated section for Amazon-published titles, though some of them are sprinkled around the store. There is, however, a small table near the front window called “Books That Inspired Amazon Originals” — that is, Amazon-produced TV series and movies. Philip K. Dick’s “The Man in the High Castle” is there. That’s corporate synergy at work.
尼克：我刚才问了一个书店的员工，对方告诉我店里没有亚马逊出版的专区，不过店里也零散地卖一些亚马逊出版的书。但是我看到前面的窗子那里有个小桌子，叫做“亚马逊原创的灵感来源”，就是和亚马逊投拍的那些电视剧和电影有关的那些书，比如菲利普·K·迪克(Philip K. Dick)的《高堡奇人》(The Man in the High Castle)。这是公司内部配合行为。
ALEXANDRA: It’s like advertising for their shows, but they can sell the advertising. Here’s my biggest question about the bookstore. Amazon already has a huge market share of physical book sales through its website, 60 percent, by some estimates. So why does it need physical stores at all?
亚历山大：这好像是给他们的剧集打广告，不过他们可以卖广告。下面是关于这家书店我最大的问题：通过他们的网站，亚马逊在实体书销售市场已经占据了庞大的份额，有人估计在60%。那么他们到底为什么要开实体书店呢？
NICK: Amazon, officially, won’t tell you much about the motivations for doing bricks-and-mortar. But what I gather from my reporting is they have a lot of ideas about how physical retailing can be improved, ideas that come from their data-centric approach to online retailing. There is also a serendipity to book shopping offline that’s hard to replicate online.
尼克：亚马逊官方并没有解释他们开实体店的动机。但是我在报道过程中收集的资料表明，他们关于实体零售如何改进有不少点子，是来自他们以数据为中心的在线销售方式。线下售书还有意外淘书的乐趣，是在线售书不能复制的。
By the way, I just saw a customer walking around with a copy of Donald Trump’s “The Art of the Deal.” I don’t know if he’s purchasing it ironically.
顺便说一句，我刚刚看见一个顾客围着唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的《交易的艺术》(The Art of the Deal)反复打量，我不知道他是不是因为反讽才要买的。
ALEXANDRA: An ironic purchase is still a purchase. I bet Trump and Amazon would agree on that.
亚历山大：为了反讽而买也是买。我打赌特朗普和亚马逊都会同意的。
So, some Amazon skeptics have suggested that books are just going to be window-dressing and what Amazon really wants is a place to showcase its digital devices. Is there a prominent area for Amazon devices?
所以，有些亚马逊的怀疑者会说，这些书只是装点门面用的，亚马逊只是想弄一个地方展示它的电子设备，店里有亚马逊电子设备的专区吗？
NICK: Electronics, most of them made by Amazon, like Echo and Fire TV, are the nucleus of the store. They’re spread out on tables and stands so you can fiddle with them just like you can fiddle with iPads at the Apple Store a short hop from here.
尼克：电子产品是这家店的核心，主要都是亚马逊的产品，比如Echo和Fire TV。它们放在桌子和展台上，顾客可以随便玩，就像在苹果店里可以玩iPad一样——这家店附近就有一家苹果店。
Knowledgeable people tell me that Amazon views its physical stores as an important way to introduce the public to new, unfamiliar devices. Techies might be comfortable buying a device like the Echo online — a speaker and virtual assistant for the home — but a lot of people will want to see it in the flesh first. That said, I don’t think Amazon stores would have saved the Fire Phone, the Amazon smartphone that belly-flopped. I should also say that books are not necessarily going to be the focus of all of the stores it opens in the future. Amazon intends to experiment.
消息灵通人士告诉我，亚马逊觉得通过实体店可以把它那些新的、不为人知的电子设备推向公众。技术通可以高高兴兴地在网上买下Echo这样的设备——它是一款家用扬声器兼虚拟助手——但是很多人还是更想先亲眼看看。不过我不觉得亚马逊的实体店能拯救亚马逊那款失败的智能手机Fire Phone。我也觉得，亚马逊未来的书店里不一定以书籍为中心。亚马逊的目的就是做实验。
ALEXANDRA: Interesting. What else do you think it might sell in physical stores? Clothing? Pets? This is a company that delivers groceries and paper towels, makes award-winning television shows and wants to send tourists into space, so the possibilities seem pretty vast.
亚历山大：有意思。你觉得他们的实体店里还会卖什么？衣服？宠物？这家公司一边卖杂货和厨房纸巾，一边投拍获奖电视剧，还想送人上太空旅游，所以可能性还挺多的。
NICK: I’ve heard food is one of the things they’re considering.
尼克：我听说食品也在他们考虑之中。
ALEXANDRA: One of the biggest questions right now is how many stores Amazon will open, and how quickly. A business professor speaking at a digital publishing conference this week speculated that it might open “thousands” of stores. There have been wild rumors that have sent other booksellers into a panic. What are you hearing?
亚历山大：现在最大的问题之一是亚马逊到底要开多少家实体店，步伐会有多快。这星期，一位商业教授在一次电子出版会议上推测，它会开“成千上万家”实体店。以往确实有一些疯狂的谣言，让其他书商发疯。你听说什么消息了吗？
NICK: “Thousands” is a ludicrous number, at least in the short term. I’ve heard “dozens.” Keep in mind that about 15 years after Apple opened its first store, it has fewer than 500 of them.
尼克：“成千上万”是个可笑的数字，至少短期内不会。我听说的数字是“几十家”。要知道，苹果开设第一家专卖店已经有15年了，到现在还不到500家。
ALEXANDRA:Still, even if the ambitions are modest in the short term, booksellers are definitely nervous about Amazon’s entry into physical retail. Independent bookstores are actually thriving right now, in part because sales of print books have stabilized and e-book sales are down. Publishing experts say physical stores are still the No. 1 way to drive discovery of books. And as you said, people still like browsing for books in stores. They like the serendipity of it. But if Amazon gains ground in brick and mortar retail, independents will lose their biggest advantage.
亚历山大：不过，就算这个短期目标算是比较温和的，书商们对于亚马逊打入实体销售也非常担心。事实上独立书店现在生意不错，部分是因为实体书的销量已经稳定下来，电子书的销量在下降。出版专家说，实体店仍然是发现新书的第一途径。正如你说的，人们还是想在店里翻书看看。他们喜欢那种意外淘到好书的感觉。但是亚马逊也开始涉足实体销售了，独立书店会失去他们最大的优势。
Are people are in there browsing right now?
你那边书店里的人都在翻书吗？
NICK: It’s lunchtime on a weekday and there is no food for sale in the store, so there are not many people. The biggest question I have is, are malls the best place for these stores? It feels like a busy urban shopping area with lots of foot traffic might work better.
尼克：现在是工作日的午餐时间，店里不出售食品，所以没多少人。我最大的问题是，购物中心是开这些店的最佳选址吗？我觉得选一个繁忙的、有不少步行者的都市购物区可能会更好。
ALEXANDRA: Nick, sorry to send you on another scavenger hunt, but can you check to see if Brad Stone’s “The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon” is on the shelves? MacKenzie Bezos didn’t like the book; she blasted it in a one-star review on Amazon.
亚历山大：尼克，不好意思又要给你一个任务，你能看看店里有没有布拉德·斯通(Brad Stone)的《什么都卖的商店：杰夫·贝佐斯与亚马逊时代》(The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon)吗？麦肯锡·贝佐斯不喜欢这本书，她在亚马逊上给它打了一星。
NICK: Wow, I just found it. They put it out of sight on a bottom shelf, but it’s there.
尼克：哇，找到了。这本书被放在书架最底下，不过确实有。