Hold the phone: Amazon wants to burrow even deeper into your life.
请不要挂机：亚马逊(Amazon)想要更深地渗透进你的生活。
The retailer is expected to introduce a smartphone on Wednesday at an event in Seattle, a long-rumored project that aims to close any remaining gap between the impulse to buy and the completed act.
这家零售商预计将于周三在西雅图的一个活动上推出一款智能手机。这个传闻已久的动作旨在扫清消费者的购买冲动和行动之间的最后障碍。
Amazon has spent the last several years furiously investing billions of dollars on multiple fronts: constructing warehouses all over the country to deliver goods as fast as possible, building devices as varied as tablets and set-top boxes, and creating and licensing entertainment to stock those devices.
过去几年，亚马逊在多个领域进行了数十亿美元的疯狂投资：为了快速发货在全国各地建造仓库，推出包括平板电脑和机顶盒在内的各种设备，创造和购买娱乐内容来填满这些设备。
It all adds up to a wildly ambitious venture without precedent in modern merchandising. Wall Street has generally cheered as competitors — an ever growing group that now includes businesses like Walmart, eBay, Apple and Google — regard these activities with increasing unease. Customers, meanwhile, are propelling Amazon toward the rarefied ranks of companies with revenue of $100 billion.
上述行动让亚马逊成了一个现代商业历史上前所未有的野心家。面对这些动作，华尔街一片叫好声，而它的竞争对手们——这个群体正不断扩大，沃尔玛(Walmart)、eBay、苹果(Apple)和谷歌(Google)已加入其中——则越来越寝食难安。与此同时，凭借着1000亿美元的营收，消费者正助推亚马逊跨入顶级公司之列。
The phone is the last and most crucial link in this colossal enterprise. It is a singular gamble for a company that, for all its technology components, is still primarily a merchant. Because even the smartest tech companies have trouble with phones.
这款手机是这个庞大企业的最新也是最重要的一步。尽管有很高的技术含量，亚马逊首先仍是一家销售商，对于亚马逊来说，此举是一次不同寻常的赌博。因为即使是最聪明的科技公司，在手机市场也举步维艰。
A Google smartphone, the Nexus One, failed to catch on. Google next bought Motorola and then dumped it. BlackBerry, once the dominant smartphone maker, is struggling to survive. Microsoft’s Windows Phone has less than 3 percent of the global market. A Facebook phone stumbled last year.
谷歌推出的智能手机Nexus One未能流行起来。谷歌此后收购了摩托罗拉，后来又将其抛弃。曾经占主导地位的智能手机制造商黑莓(BlackBerry)，如今正苦苦挣扎。微软(Microsoft)的Windows Phone的全球市场份额不到3%。Facebook手机去年也一败涂地。
When it comes to smartphone profits, Apple and Samsung divide them up, leaving crumbs for every other manufacturer. At least in the United States, phones are a mature market, with 120 million sold last year.
智能手机市场的利润大部分被苹果和三星(Samsung)瓜分，其他制造商只有拿零头的份。至少在美国，手机是成熟市场，美国去年的手机销量为1.2亿部。
Now Amazon is giving this brutal business a shot. On the one hand, analysts say, it has no choice. On the other, the rewards could be tremendous.
现在，亚马逊即将挑战这个残酷的行业。分析人士说，一方面，它别无选择。另一方面，回报可能相当可观。
“Mobile is asserting not just its utility but its supremacy,” said James McQuivey, an analyst with Forrester Research. “If you’re Amazon, you’re worried you’re going to be cut out of the next big interface. So you jump in and make yourself relevant, whether your customer is in the bathroom, the kitchen or the car. You go for broke.”
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)的分析师詹姆斯·麦奎维(James McQuivey)说，“手机不光正在突显它的实用性，而且还有权威性。如果你是亚马逊，你会担心自己无缘下一个重大的交互方式。因此你迅速加入进来，创造自己的影响力，无论你的顾客是在卫生间、厨房还是汽车里。你会孤注一掷。”
For Amazon, the risk of doing nothing is that it could be completely marginalized by one of its competitors. Mr. McQuivey offered the example of coconut flour.
对于亚马逊来说，不采取行动的风险是，自己可能彻底被某个竞争对手边缘化。麦奎维举了一个椰子粉的例子。
Search for the flour on Google, and Amazon comes up in two of the top responses, one of them an ad it paid for. In the future as designed by Google, however, the search engine will remember what you’re looking for when you’re out in the world and sell ads against that. So the next time you pass Trader Joe’s, your Android phone sends a note: There is coconut flour just 50 feet away.
在谷歌上搜索椰子粉，亚马逊会出现在最上端的两个结果里，其中一个是它的付费广告。然而，在谷歌设想的未来里，这个搜索引擎将会记住你搜索了什么，并相应地销售广告。因此，下次你路过Trader Joe’s时，你的Android手机会提示你：椰子粉在50英尺（约合15米）以外的地方有售。
If that sort of transaction starts happening too often, the coconut flour is going to go stale in Amazon’s warehouses.
如果这种交易变得十分频繁，亚马逊仓库里的椰子粉就该变质了。
In building a phone, Amazon has advantages other phone makers do not. It can sell to its 250 million customers without a middleman. It can bundle features with the Amazon Prime membership club, as it just did last week with a new streaming music service.
在手机业务方面，亚马逊具备了其他手机制造商没有的优势。它可以向自己的2.5亿用户直接销售手机，不需要中间商的参与。它可以把手机上的功能与亚马逊Prime会员服务绑定，就像上周推出新的流媒体音乐服务时那样。
Most of all, Amazon has the blessing of Wall Street to lose money as long as it is gaining market share — although recently the enthusiasm has dimmed a bit. The stock is about 20 percent off its peak.
最重要的是，只要市场份额在增长，华尔街允许亚马逊出现亏损——不过，这种支持最近有点降温。亚马逊目前的股价与纪录高点相比下跌了大约20%。
An early demonstration of what Amazon wants to do with shopping can be seen in the Dash, a wand that the company quietly introduced this year. Customers who belong to Amazon’s grocery service can use the Dash, which scans bar codes and takes voice commands, to restock their refrigerator and cabinets.
亚马逊今年低调地推出了扫描笔Dash，这款产品提前展示了亚马逊在零售方面的计划。亚马逊生鲜服务的顾客可以用Dash扫描条形码并对其发出语音指令，购买冰箱和橱柜里需要的所有商品。
Imagine the Dash set free on the world and you have Amazon’s long-term hopes for a phone. Sam Hall, an Amazon mobile executive, succinctly set forth the agenda in an interview a few years ago: “We’re trying to remove the barrier between ‘I want that’ and ‘I have it.’ ”
想象一下Dash在全世界流行之后会发生什么，还有亚马逊对手机寄予的长期希望。亚马逊手机业务高管萨姆·霍尔(Sam Hall)几年前在一个采访中简要地阐述了计划：“我们正努力移除‘我想要’和‘我拥有’之间的障碍。”
An Amazon spokesman declined to comment on Wednesday’s event. There is always the possibility, of course, that all the rumors about a phone could be an elaborate head fake, and that the event will be something else entirely — perhaps a kiss-and-make-up ceremony between Amazon and its suppliers, with several of which it has drawn swords.
一名亚马逊发言人拒绝对周三的活动发表评论。当然，有可能所有关于手机的传言都是精心安排的假动作，该活动完全与手机无关——或许只是亚马逊和供应商之间握手言和的仪式。亚马逊目前已经与几家供应商对簿公堂。
No matter what, the event has more hoopla than any Amazon release in memory, indicating something big. First came a video showing a lot of people oohing and aahing over something out of camera range. This was taken by some as confirmation that the phone will have some sort of 3-D capacity. That might pull in gamers, another group Amazon is cultivating.
无论怎样，这个活动的宣传攻势已经超过了人们记忆中亚马逊的任何一次发布活动，意味着将有大事发生。亚马逊已经率先发布了一段视频，展示的是许多人对镜头之外的某个东西发出赞叹的场面。一些人因此认为，这证实了这款手机将拥有某种3D功能。这可能会吸引游戏玩家——这是亚马逊正在努力吸引的另一个群体。
A phone could also be an opportunity for Amazon to re-energize its business with digital media. North American media revenue in the first quarter was up 12 percent from 2013 — hardly growth at all from Amazon’s point of view. But Amazon popularized electronic reading with the Kindle in 2007 and then extended it with the Kindle Fire tablets in 2011. Now comes the next step.
推出手机也可能为亚马逊提供一个重振数字媒体业务的机会。北美媒体第一季度收入较2013年增长了12%——对于亚马逊来说，这根本算不上增长。但亚马逊2007年通过推出Kindle，让电子阅读流行了起来，然后2011年凭借Kindle Fire平板电脑让这一势头继续延续。现在，亚马逊要迈出下一步了。
“If consumers adopt Amazon’s phones — and that’s a big ‘if,’ considering they love their iPhones and love their Android devices — it can then consolidate e-readers into smartphones, just like cameras and music players have been consolidated,” said Rebecca Lieb, an analyst with the Altimeter Group. “The Kindle is going to be front and center on this device.”
“如果消费者选择了亚马逊手机——考虑到他们对iPhone和Android手机的热爱，这个‘如果’变数很大，——它可以把电子阅读器整合进智能手机，就像手机里的照相机和音乐播放器一样，”奥特米特集团(Altimeter Group)分析师丽贝卡·利布(Rebecca Lieb)说，“Kindle电子阅读器将是这款设备的一大亮点。”
Amazon at the moment is publicly fighting with several media suppliers, including Hachette and Warner Home Video in the United States and Bonnier in Germany. It wants better terms, as it nearly always does, and the media companies are resisting.
亚马逊目前正在与几个媒体供应商打官司，其中包括美国的桦榭(Hachette)和华纳家庭影院公司(Warner Home Video)，以及德国的邦尼公司(Bonnier)。它想要更有利的条款，就像它一直以来所做的那样，而这些媒体公司正在予以抵制。
“If the phone takes off, there could conceivably be more battles with suppliers, who will have to balance their fear of Amazon with their desire to sell more product,” Ms. Lieb said. “It’s going to be interesting.”
“如果这款手机大获成功，可以想象，亚马逊与供应商将爆发更多战争，供应商将不得不在它们对亚马逊的畏惧和销售更多产品的渴望之间找到平衡，”利布说。“那时的局面将会很有意思。”