A day after the news that Amazon’s founder and chief executive, Jeff Bezos, is buying The Washington Post, his company officially entered another cultural arena: art. On Tuesday, the online retailer announced the start of Amazon Art, where customers can buy original and limited-edition art from more than 150 dealers and 4,500 artists, ranging in price from a $10 screen print by the up-and-comer Ryan Humphrey to a  $4.85 million painting by Norman Rockwell.
亚马逊公司的创始人、首席执行官杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)买下《华盛顿邮报》第二天，他的公司正式进入了另一个文化领域：艺术。周二，这家在线零售商宣布开始运营“亚马逊艺术”(Amazon Art)，顾客可以在线购买来自150个经销商和4500个艺术家的原创限量版艺术品。商品中包括大有前途的赖安·汉弗莱(Ryan Humphrey)售价10美元的丝网印花作品，也有诺曼·洛克威尔(Norman Rockwell)价值485万美元的油画。
Amazon, which worked with Sotheby’s for a short-lived experiment selling art on the Web in 1999, will now vie with other, more established competitors in the online marketplace, including Artsy and Artnet. Amazon has sought to blunt some of that competitive pressure by partnering with Paddle8, an online auction site, among other players.
亚马逊1999年曾与苏富比(Sotheby’s)拍卖行短暂合作，在线销售艺术品，如今将与其他更成熟的对手在网络市场上展开竞争，包括Artsy和Artnet。为了缓解竞争压力，亚马逊与在线拍卖网站Paddle8及其他一些网站开展合作。
“Amazon Art gives galleries a way to bring their passion and expertise about the artists they represent to our millions of customers,” said Peter Faricy, the company’s vice president for the Amazon Marketplace.
“亚马逊艺术给画廊提供了一条途径，可以向我们网站成百上千万的用户展示他们对自己所代理的艺术家的热情和专业知识，”亚马逊负责市场的副总裁彼得·法里西(Peter Faricy)说。
Erik Fairleigh, an Amazon spokesman, said that the commission scale  is similar to what other sellers that use Amazon pay: between 5 and 20 percent, depending on the price of the artwork. Amazon is not providing an ironclad guarantee of authenticity, but Mr. Fairleigh said that the company is “working with prestigious galleries and dealers”  to ensure quality and would investigate any potential problems and “take appropriate action.”
亚马逊发言人埃里克·法尔雷(Erik Fairleigh)说，佣金比例与其它通过亚马逊销售的卖家支付的比例差不多：5%至20%，依艺术品的价格而定。亚马逊并不对艺术品的真实性提供100%的保证，但是法尔雷说，为了保证质量，该公司“在与有声望的画廊和经销商合作”，如果出现问题，会展开调查，并“采取适当的措施”。