Amazon is a retailer that makes and sells entertainment. On Wednesday, it took a big step toward a future in which shopping and video are tightly linked, perhaps even inseparable.
亚马逊(Amazon)是制造和销售娱乐产品的零售商。周三，它又朝着未来迈进了一大步：使购物和视频紧密相连，甚至密不可分。
If Amazon has its way — and it did not become one of the country’s most valuable companies by drifting with the current — even watching home movies of your sister’s adorable children or a friend’s crazy cat will become marketing opportunities.
如果亚马逊能如愿以偿（它成为美国市值最高的公司之一，并不是因为随波逐流），那么连观看家庭自制的影片，比如你姐妹家可爱的孩子，或朋友家疯狂的猫咪，都会成为营销的机遇。
The company began selling a device Wednesday that lets consumers watch Amazon’s extensive video library as well as play a wide array of games on their television sets.
周三，亚马逊开始出售一种设备，消费者通过它可以在自家电视上观看亚马逊的大量视频，还可以玩各种游戏。
“Amazon has a vested interest in making sure it is present at every moment of possible consumption, which is all the time,” said James McQuivey, an analyst with Forrester Research. “It wants to get into that television screen and start to build a relationship.”
“亚马逊很有兴趣确保自己能参与所有消费过程中的每一个时刻，”弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)分析师詹姆斯·麦奎维(James McQuivey)说。“它想进入电视荧幕，并开始建立联系。”
Amazon Fire TV is part of a multibillion-dollar effort by Amazon to move from selling goods produced by others, which is traditionally a low-margin business, to presiding over the entire process of creation and consumption. Physical formats such as books, CDs and DVDs are disappearing, replaced by downloads and streaming.
亚马逊斥资数十亿美元，希望能使公司从出售别人生产的产品，向掌控整个制作与消费过程转型，前者传统上是一项低利润的业务。亚马逊的Fire TV就是这项任务的部分内容。图书、CD和DVD等实物正在消失，取而代之的是下载和流媒体播放。
In books, Amazon has largely made this transition. It makes e-readers and tablets and then sells the content for them. Some writers produce their books exclusively for Amazon, happily living in the digital equivalent of a company town.
在图书领域，亚马逊基本上已经实现了这种转变。它生产了电子书阅读器和平板电脑，然后通过这些设备出售内容。有些作家专门为亚马逊写作，而且他们在这一家企业的圈子里生活得颇为惬意。
Video is much more competitive. Netflix, which began by renting the same DVDs that Amazon was selling, is the leader both in streaming video and creating original shows to feature on it.
视频领域的竞争更为激烈。Netflix最初的业务是出租那些在亚马逊上销售的DVD，而现在Netflix已经成了在线视频领域的领导者，而且亚马逊提供的视频中，也包括Netflix制作的原创剧集。
“Streaming is the long-term future of video,” said William V. Power, an analyst for Robert W. Baird & Company. “Amazon needs to capitalize on that. The prize is controlling much of the living room and a big piece of the economy.”
“长远来看，流媒体是视频的未来，”贝雅公司(Robert W. Baird & Company)分析师威廉·V·鲍尔(William V. Power)说。“亚马逊应该利用这一点。回报是它能控制起居室里播放的大部分内容，以及整个经济中的很大一部分。”
Fire TV, which arrives after years of explicit rumors and intense speculation, costs $99. In addition to content from Amazon’s own studios, it offers programming the retailer licenses for an estimated 20 million Amazon Prime subscribers. Those customers pay as much as $99 a year for a membership that includes videos and shipping.
数年来，关于Fire TV，坊间一直存在着各种有模有样的传言和激烈的揣测，如今它终于以99美元（约合620元人民币）的价格面市。除了亚马逊自己制作的内容外，它还会向大约2000万名Prime用户提供亚马逊购得许可的节目。那些消费者每年花99美元购得会员资格后，就可以享受视频和送货的服务。
Other Fire content will come from established players like Hulu and Netflix. Yet another source will be homemade films. With a separate $40 controller, Fire TV can also be used to play games, including a version of the extremely popular Minecraft.
Fire TV的其他内容将来自Hulu和Netflix等地位稳固的公司。另一个来源将是用户自制的电影。另外花40美元买个控制器，就可能用Fire TV来玩游戏了，其中包括极受欢迎的游戏《我的世界》(Minecraft)的一个版本。
“We’re missionaries about inventing and simplifying on behalf of customers,” Peter Larsen, an Amazon vice president, said at a Manhattan news conference held to announce the device.
“我们在代表消费者进行创新和简化，”亚马逊副总裁彼得·拉森(Peter Larsen)在曼哈顿举行的Fire TV发布会上表示。
Mr. Larsen, speaking on a stage outfitted to look like a living room, said devices from competitors, which include Roku, Google and Apple, have three problems: It is too hard to search for content, performance is slow and unreliable, and the content is a closed system. He noted that Apple TV users could not get the full Amazon Prime experience.
拉森在布置得像是起居室的讲台上说，Roku、谷歌(Google)和苹果(Apple)等竞争对手的产品存在三个问题：内容搜索太困难、运行缓慢且不可靠，而且其内容是个封闭的系统。他指出，Apple TV用户无法享受到亚马逊Prime的全部体验。
Among the improvements and enhancements promoted for Fire TV: a voice search function that allows users to say a name like George Clooney or a genre like horror and see results instantly pop up, and a prediction feature that knows what you want and queues it up.
Fire TV大力宣传的新功能包括：语音搜索功能，如果用户说出一个名字，比如乔治·克鲁尼，或一个类别，比如恐怖片，就可以立即看到搜索结果；还有预测功能，它能推测用户接下来想看什么，然后自动播放。
Since set-top boxes give consumers an incentive to cut the cable cord, Fire TV also puts Amazon in the sights of Comcast, the country’s dominant cable system.
机顶盒让消费者有了抛弃有线电视的理由，因此Fire TV也把亚马逊摆到了与Comcast相抗衡的位置。Comcast是美国有线电视产业的龙头企业。
Consultants are already laying their bets.
咨询师们已经开始押注。
“The likely winners are Apple and Amazon, both of which offer entire ecosystems, are excellent at merchandising content and are capable of subsidizing prices and making up the revenue elsewhere,” said Bill Rosenblatt, president of GiantSteps Media Technology Strategies. “The likely losers are Google, which has a poor track record in entertainment devices and is not very good at merchandising content, and Roku, which has no ecosystem or synergies with other devices or services.”
巨步媒体技术战略公司(GiantSteps Media Technology Strategies)总裁比尔·罗森布拉特(Bill Rosenblatt)说，“苹果和亚马逊很可能成为赢家，这两家公司都提供完整的生态系统，而且擅于销售内容，能够利用其他业务补贴价格、弥补营收。可能输掉竞争的是谷歌，它在娱乐设备方面的成绩一直很糟糕，而且也不是很擅长销售内容。而Roku既没有生态系统，也没有其他设备和服务可以产生协同效应。”
In Amazon’s vision, the television becomes a supercharged home-shopping ecosystem, no matter what happens to be on.
在亚马逊的愿景中，电视机将成为一个强劲的家庭购物生态系统，无论电视上播的是什么节目。
“Imagine,” Mr. McQuivey said, “I’m watching a Jason Bourne movie. He’s on the run through Europe. The movie pauses and lets you move into an interactive game with Bourne. Or maybe he goes through Vienna, and you always wanted to go there, so here’s how you could plan a trip or at least buy a book about it. Amazon will know who to offer these deals to because those people are already in front of it at that moment.”
麦奎维说，“想象一下，我正在观看一部杰森·伯恩(Jason Bourne)系列的电影，他正在欧洲奔逃。电影突然暂停，你可以在这时与伯恩来一场互动游戏。或者，他正在穿越维也纳，而你一直想去那里，于是你可能在这时计划一次旅行，或者至少买一本有关维也纳的书。亚马逊知道把这些东西推销给谁，因为这些人都在电视机前呢。”
This was not something Amazon talked about much at the news conference, but Amazon is also not a company that gives away its secrets.
亚马逊没有在新闻发布会上过多谈论这一点，但亚马逊也不是一家轻易吐露秘密的公司。
One small clue to the company’s ultimate plans: Amazon is promoting an app for its box from a start-up called Magisto. It offers free automatic video-editing software that can reduce the three-hour movie you shot about your cat to something far snappier. The company says it has tens of millions of users, a small percentage of whom choose to make their films public.
要探究亚马逊的终极计划，有一个小线索：亚马逊正在为其机顶盒推广一款由初创公司Magisto开发的应用程序。这款应用提供了一个自动编辑视频的免费软件，用户可以把自己为猫咪拍摄的三小时长的视频，编辑得短小精悍。该公司说，这款应用已有数千万用户，其中一小部分用户会把自己拍摄的视频公开。
Magisto has the potential to be a sort of YouTube for Amazon customers.
对于亚马逊用户来说，Magisto有潜力成为他们的YouTube。
“We see a real opportunity to use television as a tool for personal storytelling and personal communications, as opposed to just broadcast communications,” said Reid Genauer, chief marketing officer of Magisto.
Magisto的首席营销官雷德·格瑙尔(Reid Genauer)说，“我们看到了一个真正的机遇，那就是把电视机当做一种个人化叙事和个人化传播的工具，而不只是播放节目的工具。”
He said he had no idea how Amazon would generate revenue from Magisto’s app but speculated that the metadata in each video could be automatically analyzed in the same way Google automatically scans Gmail messages and then advertises against them.
他说，他不知道亚马逊会如何利用Magisto的应用程序创造营收。但他猜测，每个视频中的元数据都可以被自动分析，这与谷歌自动分析Gmail中的邮件，然后推送广告的原理相同。
“In the same way that I write, ‘I’m coming to see you in England,’ and then I see airfare ads,” Mr. Genauer said, “you could see how someone could use metadata in video to sell products. If I watch a lot of kitty videos, you would sell me kitty products.”
“就好像当我写下 ‘我要去英国看你’时，就能看到机票广告一样，”格瑙尔说，“这样你就知道了，有些人是如何利用视频中的元数据来销售产品的。如果我观看了大量有关猫咪的视频，你就会向我推销猫咪产品。”