In an unusually public tussle over a prominent article, a senior executive from Amazon and the top editor of The New York Times clashed on Monday over the details in a Times article about the Internet retailer’s work culture.
一篇引人瞩目的文章，引发了一场极为公开的口水仗。《纽约时报》刊登的一篇关于亚马逊(Amazon)工作文化的文章，在本周一（10月19日——编者注）致使这家互联网零售商的一名高管与时报主编就文章的细节发生了激烈争论。
The debate began early on Monday when Jay Carney, a senior vice president for global corporate affairs at Amazon, posted a 1,300-word essay, accusing The New York Times of omitting information that he said would have undercut an August article that painted a bruising portrait of life as an Amazon employee.
这场辩论始于本周一早晨，亚马逊全球企业事务高级副总裁杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)发布了一篇1300字的帖子，指责《纽约时报》遗漏信息。卡尼称，时报8月刊登的一篇文章，将亚马逊员工的生活描写得相当悲惨，而这些遗漏的信息本来可以纠正那篇文章的偏颇之处。
Several hours later, Dean Baquet, The Times’s executive editor, published his own 1,300-word response to Mr. Carney in which he defended the reporting behind the article. Mr. Carney got in the last word for the day with his own shorter response to Mr. Baquet’s response.
几个小时后，《纽约时报》主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)也发布了一篇1300字的帖子来回应卡尼，为8月那篇文章中的报道方式做出了辩护。然后在本周一结束之前，卡尼又用一篇较短的文章，回应了巴奎的回应。
It was the kind of sparring between a newspaper and the subject of an article that once might have taken place in private. Instead, both men, who have access to huge audiences of their own, published their posts on Medium, a site for essays and storytelling that is open to the public.
一家报纸与其文章的报道对象之间如果有类似冲突，过去也只会在私下里发生。但这两人并没有这样做，他们本身都有庞大的受众群，但却选择在面向公众开放的Medium网站上发帖。这个网站用于发表文章和讲故事。
The spat took place two months after the publication of the article, which, with more than five million page views, is among The Times’s most-read pieces of the year. The debate, a spokeswoman for The Times said, prompted a fresh flood of readers to the original article.
这场口水仗发生在那篇文章发表的两个月之后，其浏览量超过五百万，是时报今年阅读量最高的文章之一。时报发言人说，这场辩论吸引了大量读者去阅读原文。
Mr. Baquet said in an interview that he had responded on Medium because Mr. Carney had posted his critique there. “My view is if someone critiques a story, you owe them a response,” he said. “Jay sent me this critique a while back and we set out to try and examine very closely his criticisms, and it took a while. He was within his rights to put it out.”
巴奎在接受采访时说，他把回应发在Medium，是因为卡尼把批评贴子发在了那里。“我觉得，如果有人批评一篇文章，你就欠他们一个答复，”他说。“杰伊之前就把这份批评发给了我们，我们着手仔细研究他的批评，花了一些时间。他有权利把批评贴子发出来。”
Mr. Carney, he said, is doing his job. “But I actually think, with respect to them, they don’t have a leg to stand on,” he said. “It was a very honest investigative piece that stands up to any scrutiny.” Asked if he plans to continue engaging publicly in other, similar circumstances, Mr. Baquet said, “Yes, yes, yes.”
他说，卡尼也是在尽自己的职责。“但我真的觉得，他们那边的论点是站不住脚的，”他说。“我们做的调查非常诚实，经得起任何推敲。”当被问到如果再遇到类似的事情，他是否打算公开参与时，巴奎说，“是的，是的，是的。”
The original article contained anecdotes about workers enduring withering criticism from their superiors and others who said they were elbowed out of the company when their performance suffered for various reasons, including illness.
8月的那篇文章中，提到了员工忍受上级严苛批评的一些事例，还有一些人说，当自己的绩效因生病等各种原因出现下滑时，就被赶出了公司。
Mr. Carney’s post, “What The New York Times Didn’t Tell You,” was a blistering rebuttal. A former White House press secretary, Mr. Carney both challenged the credibility of sources in the article and accused the paper of misrepresenting their experience.
卡尼是前白宫新闻发言人，他在题为“《纽约时报》没有告诉你的事情”的帖子中，对那篇文章予以了猛烈驳斥。卡尼既质疑了文章受访者的可信度，又指责文章歪曲了他们的经历。
His most prominent objection was to a quote from Bo Olson, a former Amazon employee, who said, “Nearly every person I worked with, I saw cry at their desk.” Mr. Carney said that Mr. Olson’s brief time at Amazon ended after he had tried to defraud vendors and falsify business records to conceal his actions.
他最大的反对意见是，文中对博·奥尔森(Bo Olson)原话的引述，此人曾是亚马逊的员工。他表示，“跟我共事过的几乎所有人，我都看到过他们在办公桌前落泪。”而卡尼说，奥尔森在亚马逊工作的时间不长，在他试图欺诈供应商和伪造商业记录，并掩盖自己的行为之后，在公司就待不下去了。
He said Mr. Olson admitted what he had done when confronted and resigned immediately.
卡尼说，奥尔森在受到质询时，承认了他做过的事，并且立即辞了职。
Mr. Carney said that Amazon was in regular contact over a seven-month period with Jodi Kantor, one of the Times reporters who wrote the article, and that she never told the company that they intended to quote Mr. Olson. “Did Ms. Kantor’s editors at The Times ask her whether Mr. Olson might have an axe to grind?” Mr. Carney wrote.
卡尼说，该文章的作者之一、时报记者乔迪·坎特(Jodi Kantor)在与亚马逊保持定期联系的7个多月里，从来没有告诉该公司，他们打算引述奥尔森的话。“坎特在《纽约时报》的编辑是否问过她，奥尔森有没有可能是在泄私愤？”卡尼写道。
In his response, Mr. Baquet wrote that The Times contacted Mr. Olson on Monday and that he said he had never been confronted by Amazon with accusations of fraudulent conduct or falsifying records, and did not admit such conduct. Mr. Baquet said the paper would have mentioned that Mr. Olson’s status at the company was contested, had he known.
巴奎则在回应中写道，时报本周一联系奥尔森时，他不承认自己有欺诈和伪造行为，还说亚马逊从未因这些行为询问过他。巴奎说，如果自己知道的话，文章中会提到奥尔森在该公司的身份存在争议。
Mr. Baquet said other current and former Amazon employees interviewed for the article recounted similar stories of people crying publicly at the company.
巴奎说，记者为该文采访过的其他现任和前任亚马逊员工，也提到了在公司里当众落泪的类似事例。
Reached by phone, Mr. Olson declined to comment further.
我们打通了奥尔森的电话，但他拒绝进一步置评。
It is rare for Amazon to undertake a full-throated attack on an article critical of the company. Shortly after the article appeared, Jeffrey P. Bezos, its chief executive and founder, sent an email to the company’s employees saying that he didn’t “recognize this Amazon and I very much hope you don’t, either.”
亚马逊极少对批评该公司的文章发起猛烈攻击。该文章发表后不久，该公司首席执行官和创始人杰弗里·P·贝佐斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos)发了一封电邮给员工，说他“从文章中认不出这是亚马逊，我非常希望你们也是一样”。
It is even more unusual for the company to share information from its personnel files to challenge an article, as it did for Mr. Olson and others. “Amazon wants to rewrite story by releasing personal details about employees,” Glenn Fleishman, a freelance journalist who worked at Amazon briefly in the late ’90s, wrote on Twitter.
更加不同寻常的是，该公司为了反驳这篇文章，公开了人事档案中的信息，就像对奥尔森等人所做的那样。“亚马逊希望通过公开员工的个人资料，来重写整个故事，”自由记者格伦·弗莱什曼(Glenn Fleishman)在Twitter上写道。1990年代末，弗莱什曼曾在亚马逊短暂工作过一段时间。
Mr. Carney declined to be interviewed. In a statement, he responded to a question about Amazon’s decision to use personnel records to rebut accusations from a former employee. “It is unusual,” he wrote. “If The Times had followed normal standards and checked their sources, we might have said, ‘This source may not be credible — here’s why.’ ”
卡尼拒绝接受采访。在一份声明中，他回答了亚马逊为何决定用人事记录来反驳一名前雇员的指责。“这样做并不常见，”他写道。“但如果时报之前遵循了常规标准，对消息来源进行了核查，我们可能就会解释，这个来源未必可靠，并解释内情。”
He added, “If The Times insisted on relying on the source, we would have gone on the record with the reasons why the source might not be credible or what the other side of the story was.”
他说，“如果时报坚持使用这个来源，我们就会拿出记录，阐明这个来源不太可信的原因，看看事情的另一面是怎样的。”