SAN FRANCISCO — Hard to believe, but there was once a time when the visionaries worked for the government. Rebuilding a ruined Europe, putting a man on the moon, ending poverty, connecting the American interior with highways — these were immense tasks undertaken, and often achieved, by bureaucrats.
旧金山——虽然难以置信，但是曾经有段时间，梦想家们是为政府效力的。重建满目疮痍的欧洲，把人类送上月球，消除贫困，用高速公路网把美国各地连接起来——这些都是艰巨的任务，而且常常都是由政府部门完成的。
The wild dreamers these days work for technology companies. Elon Musk, not content with making the first commercially viable electric car, has a proposal for a trainlike system that would speed travelers at 600 miles an hour. Google, hard at work assembling the world’s information, has started a company to cheat death. Mark Zuckerberg has plans to put everyone in the world in touch.
如今，狂热的梦想家们都在为科技公司工作。埃隆·马斯科(Elon Musk)不满足于仅仅推出第一辆商业上可行的电动车，他提议修建一个类似于火车的系统，让乘客能以600英里（约合965公里）的时速旅行。谷歌不仅在勤勉地收集全世界的信息，还成立了一家致力于实现长生不老目标的公司。马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)则打算让全世界的每个人都能上网。
And now Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, says he is planning to take what looks like a barbecue grill, attach eight propellers and a basket to it and use it to deliver small items to people’s houses. He sketched a vision where no one would ever have to get off a hammock for a resupply of Pringles or Milk Duds.
现在，亚马逊(Amazon)的首席执行官杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)说，他计划推出一个外形像烧烤炉的东西，外加八个螺旋桨和一个篮子，用它把小件物品送到顾客家里。他勾勒出一副这样的场景：你不需要从吊床上下来，品客(Pringles)薯片和奶味糖豆(Milk Duds)就会送到你的跟前。
Package delivery by drone is a loopy idea, far-fetched and the subject of instant mockery on Twitter — but it is hard to deny its audacity.
用无人机送货是一个疯狂的想法、不切实际，立刻在Twitter上成为了众人嘲弄的对象——但是你很难否认这个想法中蕴含的勇气。
“I am blown away by what I see coming out of the private sector these days,” said Andrew McAfee, co-founder of the Initiative on the Digital Economy at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management. “All the building blocks are in place for breakthroughs: The Internet goes everywhere. Everyone has a device connected to the network. And the cost of technology experimentation is so low. We don’t need one single entity with massive resources to deliver these really cool innovations.”
“现如今，私营公司的大量成就让我眼花缭乱，”安德鲁·麦卡菲(Andrew McAfee)说，他是麻省理工学院斯隆商学院(M.I.T. Sloan School of Management)数字经济项目(Initiative on the Digital Economy)的联合发起人。“所有的基本要素都已经就位，为突破性的发展做好了准备：互联网无处不在；所有人都有上网设备；开展技术实验的成本非常之低。实现这些很酷的创新不再需要一个集中了大规模资源的单一机构。”
The announcement by Mr. Bezos on Sunday evening was one of those moments when the future suddenly seems much closer. But the news also served to emphasize a less appreciated hallmark of the tech world: its masterful use of public relations.
上周日晚上，贝佐斯宣布这个计划的时候，向未来靠近了一大步的感觉再次扑面而来。但是，这个消息还突显了科技界一个较少受人赏识的特点：对公关手段的娴熟运用。
The revelation came at the end of a “60 Minutes” feature about Amazon and its preparations for so-called Cyber Monday, the year’s most hyped online shopping day.
这个消息是在《60分钟》(60 Minutes)节目中一部专题报道快结束的时候透露出来的，该报道有关亚马逊及其为“网购星期一”(Cyber Monday)做的准备；所谓网购星期一，是一年中炒作最火爆的网上购物日。
“We can do half-hour delivery,” Mr. Bezos said. He also said the drones could carry as much as five pounds and could fly 10 miles from the delivery center. “I don’t want anybody to think this is just around the corner,” he said in an uncharacteristic note of caution.
“我们可以提供30分钟配送到家的服务，”贝佐斯说。他还表示，一架无人机可以最多携带五磅重的货物，在距离配送中心10英里的范围内飞行。“我不想让大家觉得这事很快就会实现，”他说道，语气中的谨慎并不符合他一贯的风格。
Which brought up the immediate question: Why announce it now? Amazon is so tight-lipped it will not often confirm what happened in the past, like how many Kindles it has sold. It almost never talks about the future.
这自然就立刻引起了一个疑问：那为什么现在就宣布这事呢？亚马逊一向守口如瓶，经常连过去发生的事情都不会予以确认，比如Kindle的销量如何。这家公司几乎从来都没有谈论过未来。
On the show, Mr. Bezos dodged a question about whether Amazon would soon unveil a set-top box. “I don’t want to talk about the future road map of our devices,” he said.
在这期节目中，贝佐斯还回避了亚马逊是否会很快推出一个机顶盒的问题。“我不想谈亚马逊设备未来的发展路线。”他说。
Unless, apparently, he did want to.
问题是，他显然想谈。
“Whether this ever amounts to anything, it was definitely a good P.R. move,” said Tory Patrick, leader of the retail technology practice at Walker Sands, a consultancy. “It’s Cyber Monday and Amazon is on the brain.”
“不管这项计划最终是否真的能实现，这么做肯定是一个很好的公关举措。”Walker Sands咨询公司零售科技领域的负责人托利·帕特里克(Tory Patrick)说。“这可是网购星期一，他满心想的都是亚马逊。”
Beyond that — beyond Amazon’s meteoric stock price, its capacity to bring more goodies to more people in less time, its ceaseless innovation, its ability to make other retailers look hapless — the company is enduring an unusual period of criticism. Its success is breeding anger.
除此之外——除了亚马逊耀眼的股价、它以更短时间把更多好东西带给更多人的能力、它的不断创新、它让其他零售商相形见绌的能力——该公司正经历一段四处被批的非常时期。它的成功招来了怨愤。
Amazon warehouse workers are striking in Germany. The French are proposing to restrain the company with a law that forbids discounting on books. And in Britain, sending an undercover reporter to an Amazon warehouse is becoming routine.
在德国，亚马逊的仓库工人正在罢工。法国打算制定一项法律，对该公司出售折扣图书的做法加以限制。而在英国，派记者到亚马逊仓库卧底已经成了一种常规做法。
In the United States, any resistance is much more muted. But Amazon fought back hard this fall against a new book, “The Everything Store” by Brad Stone, accusing it of containing an unbalanced depiction of the company as a brutal place to work.
在美国，反抗声则要轻得多。但今年秋天，亚马逊对布拉德·斯通(Brad Stone)的新书《万货商店》(The Everything Store)进行了大力还击，他们指责这本书把该公司描绘成一个残酷的工作场所是失实的。
“The timing is interesting,” said Sucharita Mulpuru, a Forrester analyst. “The drones could be a game-changer — 20 years from now.”
“这个时机很有趣，”弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester)分析师苏查丽塔·马尔普鲁(Sucharita Mulpuru)说。“这种无人机可能会改变20年后的业界规则。”
An Amazon web page unveiled immediately after the “60 Minutes” broadcast was much more bold about the drone delivery service, which is called Prime Air. “We’ll be ready to enter commercial operations as soon as the necessary regulations are in place,” Amazon promised.
《60分钟》节目播出后，亚马逊立刻推出了一个网页，对名为Prime Air的无人机送货服务进行了更加高调的描述。“一旦必要的法规到位，我们就准备投入商业运营，”亚马逊承诺。
That, it said, meant 2015, when the Federal Aviation Administration will issue new rules for commercial drones. The F.A.A. needed a year merely to prepare its 74-page plan for the integration of drones into the national airspace. Specific details on putting those rules into effect, the agency said when it released the plan last month, are still to come.
亚马逊说，那是指2015年美国联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）出台商业无人机新规的时候。对于让无人机进入美国领空，FAA单单拟定一份74页的计划书就花了一年。该机构上个月发布这份计划时说，这些规则实施的具体细节将在以后发布。
Senator Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat and member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, said he was dissatisfied with the F.A.A. plan because he felt it had scant privacy protections. “Clear rules must be set that protect the privacy and safety of the public,” he said in a statement on Monday.
马萨诸塞州民主党参议员爱德华·马基(Edward Markey)是商务、科学和运输委员会(Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee)的成员，他对FAA的计划表示了不满，因为觉得它提供的隐私保护太少了。“必须明确制定保护公众隐私和安全的规则。”本周一，他在一份声明中说。
Jaron Lanier, a technology skeptic who wrote “You Are Not a Gadget,” said the drones would encourage the sort of divisions that undermine society.
技术怀疑论者、《你不是个小玩意儿》(You Are Not a Gadget)的作者杰伦·拉尼尔(Jaron Lanier)说，无人机配送系统将促进某种分裂，令社会结构遭到破坏。
“I can easily picture a scenario where drones deliver things to upscale tech-savvy customers,” he said. “But note the implication, whether intended or not, that working-class truck drivers will no longer transgress geographic class lines.  It’s also hard to imagine delivery drones flying unmolested in restive working-class or poor areas.  They’d become skeet or be ‘occupied,’ depending on the nature of the neighborhood.”
“我可以很容易地想象出无人机为精通技术的高端顾客送货的场景，”他说。“不过我们需要注意它可能导致的结果：无论是有意还是无意，工人阶级的卡车司机不会再穿越地区阶级界限了。而且你很难想象无人机可以不受干扰地飞过不安定的工薪阶层社区或贫民区。它们会像双向飞碟那样遭到射击，或者是被‘占领’，这取决于沿途居民区的特点。”
Mr. McAfee, co-author of “The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies,” said he saw more benefits. “Amazon drives a big truck to the outskirts of town, unloads the drones, and they go run a bunch of final drops,” he said. “The roads will be less crowded. You’ll have less pollution.”
《第二台机器时代：在科技昌明的时代工作、进步和发达》(The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies)的合著者麦克菲说，他觉得这个服务利大于弊。“亚马逊可以开一辆大货车到城镇外沿，卸下无人机，然后再让它们把货物派送到户。”他说。“这样一来，道路拥挤状况就会减轻，污染也会减少。”
Ms. Patrick, the consultant, said there was no question of what people would want.
Walker Sands的顾问帕特里克说，人们想要什么是毫无疑问的。
“If Amazon can pull this off, people will say, ‘This is awesome, I can get toilet paper in 30 minutes.’ And they will.”
“如果亚马逊能成功推出这项服务，人们就会说，‘这可真棒，我能在30分钟内收到卫生纸了。’他们的确会的。”