EARLY employees of Amazon still remember the day the company took away their aspirin.
亚马逊公司(Amazon)的早期员工仍然记得公司拿走他们的阿司匹林的那一天。
It was late 1999. After years of heady excess, the Internet boom was beginning to falter. Amazon, among the most celebrated of the dot-coms, was burdened with debt and spiraling losses. Jeff Bezos, its founder and chief impresario, had to impress Wall Street that he was serious about cutting costs.
那是1999年年末。在多年令人头晕目眩的扩张之后，互联网的繁荣开始消退。作为当时最负盛名的互联网公司之一，亚马逊负债累累，亏损不断上升。亚马逊的创始人和掌门人杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)不得不让华尔街相信，他在认真削减成本。
But how? Amazon had never indulged employees with Silicon Valley perks like massages or sushi chefs. Just about the only thing that workers received free was aspirin. So the aspirin went.
但要怎么削减？亚马逊从来没有让员工享受到硅谷的“标准”待遇，比如按摩或是寿司厨师。员工唯一能免费得到的就是阿司匹林。于是，免费的阿司匹林没了。
The removal created a lot of muttering, but the cost-cutting — including layoffs — and promises of future profit helped Amazon escape the jaws of doom. Now, 14 years later, Mr. Bezos, 49, has become so rich and successful that he can surprise the world by buying The Washington Post for the equivalent of pocket change, which in his case is $250 million.
这项决定引发了很多牢骚，但是削减成本——包括裁员——以及对未来利润的承诺，帮助亚马逊摆脱了灭亡的命运。如今，14年过去了，现年49岁的贝佐斯已是如此富有和成功，以至于他能拿出2.5亿美元的“小钱”收购《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)，震惊世界。
No one, apparently including Mr. Bezos himself, seems to know what he intends to do with that fabled newspaper. This is, after all, a man who once said the quality he most wanted in a wife was the ability to spring him from a third-world prison. He can probably be counted on to think unpredictably.
没有人知道他打算用这份著名报纸做什么，似乎贝佐斯自己也不知道。毕竟，贝佐斯曾经说过，他最希望妻子拥有的品质是，能够把他从某个第三世界的监狱里救出来，因此，他的想法也许注定是不可预测的。
The aspirin take-away and similar incidents over the course of Mr. Bezos’ career show a determination to do whatever is necessary to succeed and a fanatic attention to detail, even at the expense of appearing ridiculous. Also, he does not care about your headache.
贝佐斯的职业生涯中，取消免费阿司匹林以及类似的事件显示出，他愿意为成功付出一切，疯狂地关注细节，哪怕代价是让自己看起来很愚蠢。还有，他不在乎你头疼不头疼。
“Jeff may be outwardly goofy, with that trademark laugh, but he’s a very tough guy,” said James Marcus, who was Amazon employee No. 55. “If he goes even halfway through with his much-vaunted reinvention of journalism, there is no way he’s not going to break some eggs.”
“杰夫可能表面上疯疯癫癫的，比如他独有的笑声，但是他是一个非常坚强的人，”亚马逊的55号雇员詹姆斯·马库斯(James Marcus)说，“即使他大肆吹嘘的重塑新闻业的努力只能走到半路，他也不可能不闯点祸。”
Mr. Bezos is the sole founder, the public face, the largest shareholder and the visionary of Amazon. “For many of us, creating Earth’s biggest bookstore would have been enough,” said Kerry Fried, employee No. 251. “Jeff’s goal was a touch grander: to conquer the world.”
贝佐斯是亚马逊的唯一创始人、标志性人物、最大股东和规划者。“对于我们许多人来说，打造地球上最大的书店的目标就足够了，”251号雇员克里·弗里德(Kerry Fried)说，“杰夫的目标比这稍微大点：征服全世界。”
He has more than his share of detractors — just ask your neighborhood bookseller, if you can find one. But it is increasingly hard to dispute that he is the natural heir of Steve Jobs as the entrepreneur with the most effect on the way people live now.
他的批评者相当多——问问你家附近的书店，如果你还能找到一家的话。但是越来越难以否认的是，他继承了史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)的衣钵，成为对人们当下的生活方式产生最大影响的企业家。
Amazon, which is as much a reflection of Mr. Bezos’ personality as a corporation worth $125 billion can be, is by far the fastest-growing major retailer, although that simple label long ago ceased to suffice. It is also a movie studio, an art gallery (a 1962 Picasso, “Jacqueline au Chapeau Noir,” can be had for $175,000) and a publisher. It is an empire that spans much of the globe and even has its own currency, Amazon Coins. What it does not have much of, and never did, are old-fashioned profits.
作为一家价值1250亿美元的公司，亚马逊足以反映贝佐斯的个性。亚马逊是目前增长最快的大型零售商，尽管零售商这个简单标签早已无法涵盖亚马逊的业务类型了。亚马逊还是一个电影公司，一个艺术画廊（毕加索1962年的作品《戴黑色帽子的杰奎琳》，售价可达17.5万美元）和一个出版商。这是一个遍及地球大部分区域的帝国，它甚至有自己的货币——亚马逊Coins。但它目前没有、以前也从未拥有的，是巨额的传统利润。
The company has all sorts of regulatory and competitive concerns, making for a minefield of possible conflicts of interest for the owner of The Post. Amazon has opposed states’ efforts to have e-commerce companies collect sales tax. It was the main beneficiary of the Justice Department’s successful pursuit of five publishers and Apple on antitrust grounds. It is locking horns with major companies like Walmart and I.B.M. And as it expands into same-day delivery of its products, it will come up against grocery chains and drugstores.
亚马逊公司有着各种各样的监管和竞争方面的关切，这可能让《华盛顿邮报》的所有者进入一个可能存在利益冲突的雷区。亚马逊反对各州让电子商务企业征缴销售税的计划。亚马逊还是司法部成功追究五家出版商和苹果(Apple)的反垄断行动的主要受益者。它正在与沃尔玛(Walmart)和IBM等大公司角力。随着亚马逊的业务范围扩大到当日送达，它将对食品连锁店和药品杂货店构成竞争。
Through its thriving data storage division, Amazon is becoming an important contractor to the government bureaucracy that is a mainstay of The Post’s reporting. If persistent rumors are true and the company produces an Amazon phone, yet another set of antagonists will arise.
通过业务兴旺的数据存储部门，亚马逊正在成为政府机构的一家重要承包商，而政府机构正是《邮报》的主要报道对象。如果不绝于耳的传闻属实，该公司将生产亚马逊手机，这又会惹恼另一群公司。
Other newspaper publishers have similar, if fewer, conflicts. The Washington Post Company owns Kaplan, the for-profit education business that came under Congressional scrutiny, and the company fought efforts to impose regulations. But the newspaper nonetheless maintained its commitment to investigative journalism. Some argue that it would to take more than a change of ownership to transform that culture.
其他的报纸出版商也面临类似的矛盾，当然数量可能少一些。华盛顿邮报公司(The Washington Post Company)旗下拥有营利性的教育企业卡普兰公司(Kaplan Inc.)，该公司曾受到国会关注，同时公司还曾经抵制实施监管的行动。但是《华盛顿邮报》仍然保持着对新闻调查的承诺。一些人认为，要改变这一文化，光是更换东家是不够的。
“Newsrooms are very conservative,” said Bill Buzenberg, executive director for the Center for Public Integrity. “They have difficulty changing and certainly they have difficulty selling out their core principles.”
公共诚信中心(Center for Public Integrity)的执行总监比尔·布森伯格(Bill Buzenberg)说，“新闻编辑室里的人是非常保守的。他们不愿改变，肯定不愿出卖自己的核心原则。”
Perhaps. But then, few newsrooms have ever been confronted with a new owner whose zeal for disruption is matched by his obsession with tinkering until he gets it right. As Steve Yegge, a former employee, once put it, “He just makes ordinary control freaks look like stoned hippies.” A relevant fact: Mr. Bezos originally thought of naming Amazon “Relentless.”
或许是吧。可话说回来，没有几个新闻编辑室遇到过这样的老板：他对颠覆具有热情，而且痴迷于改来改去，直到一切完美。正如前员工史蒂夫·耶奇(Steve Yegge)曾经说的，“与贝佐斯相比，普通的控制欲狂看起来像是磕了药的嬉皮士。”一个相关的事实是：贝佐斯最初想把亚马逊命名为“不屈不挠”。
Mr. Marcus, now the executive editor of Harper’s Magazine, said it all made sense, kind of: “Bezos is fascinated by broken business models. And whatever else you think of newspapers, the business model is broken.”
马库斯现在是《哈泼斯杂志》(Harper’s Magazine)的执行主编，他说，这一切自有某种逻辑：“贝佐斯痴迷于失灵的商业模式。而无论你对报纸有什么其他看法，其商业模式肯定已经失灵。”
THERE is a reason that not even the most imaginative press critics ever thought that Jeff Bezos might one day buy The Washington Post: he has never seemed much of a fan of journalism or journalists.
即使是最有想象力的媒体评论人士也不会想到，贝佐斯有一天会买下《邮报》，因为他从未表现出对新闻或新闻从业人员感兴趣。
He gives interviews only when he has something to promote, and always stays on message. He likes his privacy; there are no “at home with” magazine features with him lounging with his wife, MacKenzie, and four children at his luxurious Seattle lakeside estate. Amazon’s quarterly earnings calls with analysts and journalists are festivals of vagueness.
他只有在自己有宣传需要的时候才接受采访，而且始终只谈正事。他喜欢保护自己的隐私；杂志上从来不会出现他和妻子麦肯齐(MacKenzie)以及四个儿女在西雅图的湖畔豪宅休闲的照片。亚马逊面向分析师和记者举行的季度财报电话会议，堪称讳莫如深的场合。
Even a number as basic, and presumably impressive, as how many Kindle e-readers the company sells is never released. There are no bold signs on its growing Seattle headquarters complex to identify what is contained within. And there are fewer leaks out of Amazon than the National Security Agency.
即使是基本且想必令人印象深刻的数据，如公司销售了多少Kindle电子书阅读器，也从来不会公布。在日益庞大的西雅图总部大楼，没有大字招牌说明楼里有哪些部门。而从亚马逊泄露出来的消息比美国国家安全局(NSA)还少。
The philanthropic Bill Gates, whose wife, Melinda, served on The Post’s board, might have been a more likely buyer. Mark Zuckerberg, who adopted Donald E. Graham, the Post Company’s chief executive, as a mentor, could have been plausible. When it turned out to be Mr. Bezos instead, no one minded admitting astonishment. Neither his managerial style nor his entrepreneurial success nor his passion for secrecy seem to necessarily transfer over to his newest possession.
慈善家比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)的妻子梅琳达(Melinda)是《邮报》董事会成员，她本来更像是有可能收购《邮报》的人。马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)也有可能，因为华盛顿邮报公司的首席执行官唐纳德·E·格雷厄姆(Donald E. Graham)是他的导师。但收购《邮报》的人居然是贝佐斯，没人介意承认自己的惊讶。他的管理风格、商业上的成功，以及对保密的热衷，似乎都不是《邮报》能够轻易所适应的。
“Every story you ever see about Amazon, it has that sentence: ‘An Amazon spokesman declined to comment,’ “ Mr. Marcus said.
马库斯说，“你见过的有关亚马逊的每篇报道都有这么一句话：‘一位亚马逊发言人拒绝置评’。”
Drew Herdener, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment.
亚马逊的发言人德鲁·赫德纳(Drew Herdener)拒绝对此文置评。
Though indisputably one of the great marvels of the age, Amazon is a curious beast that offers few obvious lessons for how a newspaper like The Post might become profitable. Financial writers have noted that Apple makes more than twice as much money in a quarter than Amazon earned during the last decade. Last quarter, Amazon had a net loss of $7 million. But Wall Street loves Amazon anyway, despite its slim margins.
亚马逊可谓毫无争议的当代奇迹之一，尽管如此，它还是一只充满了好奇心的野兽，对于像《邮报》这样一份报纸该如何盈利，它没有多少显见的经验。财经撰稿人已经指出，苹果在一个季度内的收入，是亚马逊过去十年里收入的两倍多。上一季度，亚马逊的净损失达到了700万美元。不过，不管亚马逊的利润多微薄，华尔街依然对它一往情深。
Amazon tends to give its profits directly to its customers. It sells to them at a discount, will often ship free and, if a customer wants to return an item, will refund the money before even receiving the return.
亚马逊倾向于把利润直接让给顾客。它以低价出售货品，还常常免运费，如果一名顾客想退货，亚马逊甚至会在收到货物前就返还货款。
Sometimes it will even do more. Say you buy a book, and then decide it’s not for you. You tell Amazon you are returning it. You might get a message like this: “Keep this item and receive a refund! It’s on us!”
有时候，它甚至会更进一步。比如说，你买了一本书，然后认为它不适合你。你可以告诉亚马逊你要退货。你也许会得到这样一条讯息：“保留这件商品，同时会得到退款！我们买单。”
That’s a sure way to win friends and lose money. But Wall Street believes that the company will someday monetize tens of millions of customers — in other words, make a real profit each time it sells them something. Maybe next year. Or the year after. From the very beginning, Mr. Bezos has made Amazon an investment story about the company’s potential rather than its reality.
这么做一定会赢得友情，却损失钱财。不过，华尔街认定，终有一日，该公司会利用它几千万顾客来赢利，换句话说，到时候每卖一样东西都能获得实实在在的利润。这也许会在明年发生，也许是后年。从一开始，贝佐斯就把亚马逊打造成一个投资传奇，更注重其潜力，而非当前状况。
People who have worked closely with Mr. Bezos say he refuses to waste time on anything that isn’t directly about the customer. “That’s where his ego is,” one former colleague said.
曾和贝佐斯密切合作的人们表示，他拒绝把时间浪费在任何与顾客没有直接关系的事上。他的一名前同事说，“这是他最自豪的地方。”
As tech companies grow old and big, they strive to keep the energy and boldness of the start-up they once were. They almost always fail. Amazon is the exception. “If a new product was launching, sometimes the day would never end,” a former employee said. As an Amazon joke has it, work-life balance is for people who do not like their work.
随着科技公司发展壮大，它们力图保持自己初创阶段一度具有的活力和魄力。它们几乎总是失败。亚马逊是个例外。一名亚马逊前员工说，“假如推出一件新产品，有时候这个新鲜期永远也不会结束。”就像一个亚马逊公司的笑话说的，只有不喜欢自己工作的人，才会说什么工作与生活相平衡的话。
In Seattle, employees who are partly paid in stock have been rewarded with its 600 percent climb in the last five years. Out in the warehouses, where most of Amazon’s 90,000 employees work, starting pay is about $12 an hour and workers can quickly lose their jobs if they slow down.
由于亚马逊的股价在过去五年里增长了六倍，在西雅图，以股票作为部分酬劳的雇员们获利颇丰。九万名亚马逊员工中的大部分都在它的仓库里工作，他们的起薪约为每小时12美元，如果速度慢下来，他们可能会很快丢掉工作。
It was so hot in Allentown, Pa., in May 2011 that some workers at the Amazon warehouse there collapsed. Another company with different attitudes might have installed air-conditioning, or simply sent workers home during heat spells. If Amazon did that, however, East Coast customers might not get their Jay-Z CDs or diapers or jars of heather honey as quickly as they expected.
2011年5月，宾夕法尼亚州艾伦敦酷热难当，亚马逊当地仓库里的一些工人晕倒了。持不同态度的其他公司或许就会在仓库里安装空调，或者在高温时段让工人回家。但是，如果亚马逊这样做了，美国东岸的顾客可能就无法在预期时间内很快收到他们定的Jay-Z CD、纸尿裤或罐装石南蜜了。
So the company chose a different solution. It arranged to station ambulances and paramedics out front during five days of excessive heat, according to The Morning Call, the Pennsylvania newspaper that broke the story. Fifteen workers were taken to area hospitals after they fell, and as many as 30 more were treated by paramedics at the warehouse. Workers quoted by the paper said the heat index in the facility, a measure that includes humidity, was as high as 114 degrees. Amazon had little to say to the newspaper, even when it later installed air-conditioning.
所以它选择了一种不同的解决方式。据曝光此事的宾州报纸《早晨消息》(The Morning Call)报道，亚马逊在温度极高的五天内，在仓库外安排了救护车和急救护理人员驻守。有15名工人在晕倒后被送到了当地医院，还有多达30名工人在仓库接受护理人员的治疗。这家报纸采访的工人说，仓库里的酷热指数（这种测量标准也包含湿度）竟然高达114度（46摄氏度）。亚马逊没有对这家报纸说什么，甚至连后来安了空调后也不说。
It is unlikely that Mr. Bezos will treat The Post’s reporters the way he treated his warehouse workers.
贝佐斯不太可能用对待仓库工人的方式来对待《邮报》记者。
“I don’t expect him to turn off the air-conditioning,” said Ken Doctor, an analyst at Outsell. But Mr. Doctor suggested that Mr. Bezos did have one particularly relevant area of expertise: gathering data and using it to figure out what consumers want. “The Washington Post has a major political news audience,” Mr. Doctor said. “Yet it hasn’t been able to segment that audience commercially.”
“我不认为他会关掉空调，”Outsell的分析师肯·多克托(Ken Doctor)说。但多克托表示，贝佐斯的确在一个紧密相关的领域拥有专业知识：搜集数据，并利用这些数据来弄清客户需求。“《华盛顿邮报》拥有大量对政治新闻感兴趣的读者，”多克托说，“但是它却不能从商业方面对这些读者进行细分。”
One other competency that Mr. Bezos has: money, and lots of it.
贝佐斯还有另一种本领：钱，很多很多的钱。
“There’s not a person in this world that can save the newspaper industry,” said Craig Huber, an independent research analyst. “He’s going to be dealing with operating losses as far as the eye can see. I think The Washington Post sold to him because he’s going to be more willing to absorb those losses.”
“世界上没有人能拯救报业，”独立研究分析师克雷格·休伯(Craig Huber)说，“他必须应对没完没了的经营损失。我认为《华盛顿邮报》之所以卖给他，就是因为他会更愿意去承受这些损失。”
A CORE role for any newspaper is to cover the local government. For The Post, that includes the federal government. In recent years, however, Amazon has become a government contractor — in effect, the government’s digital filing cabinet.
任何报纸的一项核心任务就是报道当地政府。对于《邮报》而言，那就包括联邦政府。然而，近年来，亚马逊已经成了一个政府承包商——其实就是政府的数字档案柜。
Amazon Web Services, Mr. Bezos’ cloud computing operation, is a leading service for third-party rental of computing and data storage. Besides hundreds of thousands of individuals and businesses, more than 2,000 research institutions and 500 government institutions worldwide use A.W.S. Amazon runs several large data centers, each containing hundreds of thousands of servers, along with 42 smaller facilities around the world.
贝佐斯的云计算业务亚马逊网络服务（Amazon Web Services，简称AWS）是计算和数据存储第三方租赁服务的领头羊。除了数十万个人和公司客户，世界上超过2000家研究机构和500个政府机构都在使用AWS。亚马逊运行几个大型数据中心，每一个都有数十万台服务器，此外它还有42个较小的设施分布在世界各地。
The operations of these data centers, like most other details about A.W.S., are a closely held secret. Even the company’s senior executives must have a valid reason to be inside one of the big facilities.
这些数据中心的运作，与AWS的多数其他情况一样，均严格保密。就连公司高管也得有充分的理由才能进入其中的大型设施。
In addition to the eight major centers, A.W.S. operates a separate data center, called GovCloud, for the United States government. GovCloud is compliant with the government’s International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, controls. Only United States citizens can use these computers. Much other government work, for both the United States and foreign governments, is done in other A.W.S. centers as well.
除了八家大型中心，AWS还为美国联邦政府单独运行了一家名为“政府云”(GovCloud)的数据中心。这家中心遵守政府制定的《国际武器贸易条例》（International Traffic in Arms Regulations，简称ITAR）。只有美国公民才能操作这些电脑。其他许多政府项目，不论是为美国还是外国政府服务的，也在AWS其他一些中心完成。
In one important recent development, A.W.S. was awarded a contract valued at $600 million to provide computing services to the Central Intelligence Agency. James Staten, an analyst with Forrester Research, said the C.I.A. contract was a breakthrough for Amazon. “Every other national intelligence service will want the same kind of computing, if they can get it,” he said.
最近的一项重要进展是，AWS获得了为中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)提供计算服务的价值6亿美元的合同。弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)的分析师詹姆斯·斯塔滕(James Staten)表示，中情局的合同对亚马逊而言是一大突破。“其他各个国家情报服务机构都会想要同样的计算能力，只要它们有能力获取，”他说。
Every other cloud services company, meanwhile, wants a piece of the action. I.B.M. formally protested the award on undisclosed grounds. The Government Accountability Office, while finding generally for Amazon, said the C.I.A. should re-examine the deal. Amazon is expected to officially apply for the original award to stand.
与此同时，各家云服务企业都想分一杯羹。IBM对合同提起了正式申诉，理由未对外公布。美国政府问责局(Government Accountability Office)得出的结论尽管基本对亚马逊有利，但也称中情局应重新审核这笔交易。预计亚马逊将正式申请保留原始合同。
Although Mr. Bezos, not Amazon, bought The Post, his role as Amazon’s chief executive and biggest shareholder makes for awkward relationships. Kate Martin, director of the Center for National Security Studies, said, “It’s a serious potential conflict of interest for a major newspaper like The Washington Post to have a contractual relationship with the government and the most secret part of the government.”
虽然是贝佐斯收购了《邮报》，不是亚马逊，但他作为亚马逊首席执行官和最大股东的身份让这种关系颇显尴尬。国家安全研究中心(Center for National Security Studies)主任凯特·马丁(Kate Martin)认为，“《华盛顿邮报》这样的大报与政府有合同关系，而且是政府中最机密的部门，这构成了严重的潜在利益冲突。”
But Steve Aftergood, director of the project on government secrecy for the Federation of American Scientists, said that if The Washington Post did not publish a story about the C.I.A. because of Amazon’s business relationship with the agency, “there would be no shortage of other venues that would be eager to publish the information in question.”
不过，美国科学家联合会(Federation of American Scientists)的政府机密项目主管史蒂文·阿福特古德(Steve Aftergood)表示，如果《华盛顿邮报》真的会出于亚马逊与中情局之间的商务关系而不刊发涉及后者的文章，“也会有大把地方会急切地刊出相关信息。”
Bob Woodward, The Post’s most famous reporter, said he first met Mr. Bezos at a Forstmann Little conference in Colorado about a decade ago and that they spoke “a number of times at those conferences and elsewhere.”
《邮报》最著名的记者鲍勃·伍德沃德(Bob Woodward)称，他第一次见到贝佐斯是大约10年前在科罗拉多州的福斯特曼—利特尔公司(Forstmann Little)的会议上，两人“在这类会议场合”交谈过“几次”。
Mr. Woodward said that when he discussed projects and books with Mr. Bezos, “he always struck me as very serious about it and in tune with the values of independence, aggressiveness.” He added that he hoped that because Mr. Bezos ran a company that was “customer focused,” the entrepreneur would recognize how much readers appreciate high-quality reporting.
伍德沃德表示，当他和贝佐斯讨论项目和书籍的时候，“他总是很严肃，而且符合独立进取的价值观，让我印象深刻。”他还称，自己希望，由于贝佐斯经营着一家“以客户为中心”的公司，他能意识到读者对高质量的报道推崇备至。
Mr. Bezos has made the right noises. Referring to a famous assertion that John N. Mitchell, President Nixon’s 1972 campaign director, directed at Katharine Graham, The Post’s publisher, the Amazon chief wrote in a letter to Post employees that “while I hope no one ever threatens to put one of my body parts through a wringer, if they do, thanks to Mrs. Graham’s example, I’ll be ready.”
贝佐斯看来充满斗志。他仿效尼克松总统(Nixon)1972年竞选团队经理约翰·N·米切尔(John N. Mitchell)冲《邮报》发行人凯瑟琳·格雷厄姆(Katharine Graham)说的著名狠话，在给《邮报》员工写的信中称，“虽然我希望没人会威胁把我的身体某部位扔进甩干机里，不过假如有，多亏了格雷厄姆夫人的榜样，我会做好准备。”
Mr. Bezos’ critics, however, have been clamoring to put him through a wringer for years now. Leaving aside the complaints of bookstores, publishers and distributors, all groups whose viability he is challenging, two controversies seem to prefigure the sort of conflicts he will have as The Post’s new owner.
不过多年来，批评贝佐斯的人士一直高声疾呼要把他大卸八块。除了生计受到他挑战的所有书店、出版社和分销商对他有诸多抱怨，还有两项争议似乎预示着他作为《邮报》所有人将面临的冲突。
WikiLeaks briefly used Amazon Web Services in late 2010 to host its purloined classified documents, but then Amazon pulled the plug. The company said that contrary to news reports, it was not acting at the government’s request. Instead, it said it took WikiLeaks offline for violating Amazon’s rules against posting material you do not own. The Electronic Frontier Foundation said Amazon “ran away with its tail between its legs.”
维基解密曾在2010年下半年短暂地使用过亚马逊网络服务(Amazon Web Services)，来存储其窃取的机密文件，但亚马逊随后就终止了服务。该公司称，事实与一些报道相反，它并不是应政府要求终止服务的。它停止为维基解密提供服务是因为后者违反了亚马逊的规定：用户不应发布没有所有权的内容。电子前沿基金会(Electronic Frontier Foundation)说，亚马逊“夹着尾巴逃跑了”。
A more recent complaint involves the opposite of the WikiLeaks situation. Ask.fm, a Web site for anonymous teenagers, is being pilloried in the British media for allowing cyberbullying that was blamed in the suicides of four youths. Amazon, which reportedly hosts Ask.fm, has been asked to take it down for violating its rules against hate speech. An Amazon spokeswoman declined to comment or even confirm that the company hosts Ask.fm.
然而最近的一宗投诉却与维基解密的情况恰恰相反。一家允许青少年匿名使用的网站Ask.fm受到英国媒体的批评，媒体称该网站允许网络欺凌的存在，导致四位青少年自杀。而据说托管Ask.fm网站的亚马逊，已被要求终止Ask.fm的服务，理由是该网站违反了涉及仇恨言论的规定。但一位亚马逊的女发言人拒绝对此发表评论，甚至拒绝确认公司是否在托管Ask.fm网站。
LARGELY overlooked in the commentary over what Mr. Bezos will do with The Post is the fact that he has already commanded a large editorial team.
有关贝佐斯将在《邮报》如何做为的评论基本上忽略了一个事实：他的确管理过大型编辑团队。
In the early days of Amazon, he set up a department to produce reviews of the books that Amazon was selling. It was an impressive gesture: Whoever heard of a store with editors? But it offered Amazon instant credibility. Mr. Bezos never suggested that the reviews be positive, and he gave the department his full support.
在亚马逊创建初期，他成立了一个部门为公司出售书籍编写书评。这是一个了不起的举措，谁听说过书店有编辑的？但这样的安排立刻增加了人们对亚马逊的信任。贝佐斯从未要求书评必须是正面的，他对这个部门给予了全力支持。
Until he did not. People at Amazon at the time describe a struggle between high-minded reviewers and data-driven M.B.A.’s, otherwise known as the Vulcans in a tribute to Mr. Bezos’ favorite television show. The Vulcans pointed out that relatively few customers actually read the reviews, so maybe Amazon shouldn’t spend so much to produce them.
后来这样的支持停止了。亚马逊当时的员工描述了这样一场斗争，对阵双方是高尚的书评人和以数据为导向的工商管理硕士们，后者也被称为“瓦肯人”(Vulcan)，这是在向贝佐斯最钟爱的电视剧致敬。“瓦肯人”指出，没有多少顾客会真的看评论，所以亚马逊也许不该花那么多钱做书评。
“It was a culture war and the Vulcans won,” said Tim Appelo, who worked in the editorial department. “Many people in Amazon editorial were embittered because Bezos scuttled us.”
“那是一场文化大战，瓦肯人取得了胜利，”当时在编辑部任职的蒂姆·阿佩洛(Tim Appelo)说，“亚马逊编辑部的许多人都满腹愤恨，因为贝佐斯放弃了我们。”
The professional reviews yielded to the innovation of customer reviews — sometimes an impartial evaluation, sometimes a love song by the author’s mother disguised as an impartial evaluation. There was no way to tell, and no one in management seemed to care. Many of the reviewers quit or were laid off.
专业书评让路于创新的顾客评论功能，这些评论有时候不偏不倚，有时候伪装成中立的评论，但其实是作者母亲发表的溢美之词。没有办法来分辨真伪，管理团队里似乎也没人在乎。许多书评人要么辞职要么被裁。
Mr. Appelo was not bitter. In fact, he went back to Amazon for a second stint, introducing its digital video store in 2006. (He is now at The Hollywood Reporter.)
阿佩洛却并无怨言。事实上，他后来回到了亚马逊，在2006年推出了它的数字视频商店。他如今任职于《好莱坞报道》(The Hollywood Reporter)。
“Bezos knows that there is a difference between the marketplace and the marketplace of ideas,” Mr. Appelo said. “He is relentlessly and ruthlessly inventive but I don’t think he’ll indulge his Vulcan side too much.”
“贝佐斯知道，市场和思想的市场是有区别的，”阿佩洛说，“他的创造力不屈不挠、势不可挡，但我不认为他会十分纵容自己‘瓦肯人’的一面。”
Put like that, it sounds somewhere between a gut feeling and a heartfelt wish. In these troubled times for newspapers, that may be the most The Washington Post can expect.
这样的话听上去介于直觉和衷心祝福之间。在如今报纸的艰难时代，那也许是《华盛顿邮报》能得到的最好结果。