INDIAN LAND, S.C. — Twenty-five years ago, Ni Meijuan earned $19 a month working the spinning machines at a vast textile factory in the Chinese city of Hangzhou.
南卡罗来纳州印第安兰德——25年前，倪美娟（音）在中国杭州的一家巨型纺织厂里做纺纱工，一个月工资19美元。
Now at the Keer Group’s cotton mill in South Carolina, which opened in April, Ms. Ni is training American workers to do the job she used to do.
而今，在科尔集团(Keer Group)4月在南卡罗来纳州新建的棉纺厂里，她正在训练美国工人如何做自己以前的工作。
“They’re quick learners,” Ms. Ni said after showing two fresh recruits how to tease errant wisps of cotton from the machines’ grinding gears. “But they have to learn to be quicker.”
“他们学东西很快，”倪美娟说道，她刚刚向两个新来的工人展示，如何理顺纺纱机的齿轮传送过来的一缕缕错乱的棉线。“但他们的纺织速度还得提高。”
Once the epitome of cheap mass manufacturing, textile producers from formerly low-cost nations are starting to set up shop in America. It is part of a blurring of once seemingly clear-cut boundaries between high- and low-cost manufacturing nations that few would have predicted a decade ago.
来自前低成本国家的纺织品生产商曾经是廉价大规模生产的典型代表，如今他们开始在美国建厂。原本泾渭分明的高成本生产国和低成本生产国之间的界线开始模糊，上述纺织品领域的变化就是这一变化过程的一部分，10年前很少有人预料到会出现这样的变化。
Textile production in China is becoming increasingly unprofitable after years of rising wages, higher energy bills and mounting logistical costs, as well as new government quotas on the import of cotton.
过去多年中，中国的工人工资、能源价格和物流成本不断增长，政府对棉花进口又开始实施新的配额制度，从而导致中国纺织品生产的利润越来越低。
At the same time, manufacturing costs in the United States are becoming more competitive. In Lancaster County, where Indian Land is located, Keer has found residents desperate for work, even at depressed wages, as well as access to cheap and abundant land and energy and heavily subsidized cotton.
与此同时，美国的生产成本正变得更有竞争力。在印第安兰德(Indian Land)所在的兰开斯特县，科尔集团发现本地人极为渴望工作，哪怕工资较低，这里还有价格便宜而又丰富的土地和能源资源，以及享受大量补贴的棉花。
Politicians, from the county to the state to the federal government, have raced to ply Keer with grants and tax breaks to bring back manufacturing jobs once thought to be lost forever.
从县到州，再到联邦政府，美国政客们竞相用补助和税收优惠吸引科尔集团给他们带回原来以为已经永远失去的工作机会。
The prospect of a sweeping Pacific trade agreement that is led by the United States, and excludes China, is also driving Chinese yarn companies to gain a foothold here, lest they be shut out of the lucrative American market.
美国主导的一揽子太平洋贸易协定没有将中国包括在内，这一前景也促使中国纺织企业想要在这里占有一席之地，以免被拦在诱人的美国市场之外。
Keer’s $218 million mill spins yarn from raw cotton to sell to textile makers across Asia. While Keer still spins much of its yarn in China, importing the raw cotton from America, that is slowly changing.
科尔集团斥资2.18亿美元在这里建立了棉纺厂，把原棉纺成纱线，再卖给亚洲各地的纺织品生产商。尽管科尔目前仍从美国进口原棉，在中国进行许多纱线生产工作，但这种情况正在慢慢改变。
“The reasons for Keer coming here? Incentives, land, the environment, the workers,” Zhu Shanqing, Keer’s chairman, said on a recent trip to the United States.
“科尔来这里的原因？优惠、土地、环境和工人，”科尔董事长朱善庆最近来美国时讲到。
“In China, the whole yarn manufacturing industry is losing money,” he added. “In America, it’s very different.”
“在中国，整个纺纱业都在亏损，”它补充道。“而在美国，情况很不一样。”
Since Beijing and Washington resumed trade relations in the early 1970s, the United States has mostly run a huge trade deficit, as Americans consumed billions of dollars in cheap electronics, apparel and other Chinese goods.
自从北京和华盛顿在1970年代早期恢复贸易关系，美国大多数时间都面对着巨额对华贸易逆差，因为美国人消费了数以十亿美元计的廉价电子产品、服装和其他中国商品。
But surging labor and energy costs in China are eroding its competitiveness in manufacturing. According to the Boston Consulting Group, manufacturing wages adjusted for productivity have almost tripled in China over the last decade, to an estimated $12.47 an hour last year from $4.35 an hour in 2004.
但是，中国上涨的人工和能源成本正在降低其制造业的竞争力。据波士顿咨询集团(Boston Consulting Group)统计，中国依据生产力调整过的制造业工资在过去10年增加了两倍，从2004年的4.35美元/每小时增加到去年的大约12.47美元/每小时。
In the United States, manufacturing wages adjusted for productivity have risen less than 30 percent since 2004, to $22.32 an hour, according to the consulting firm. And the higher wages for American workers are offset by lower natural gas prices, as well as inexpensive cotton and local tax breaks and subsidies.
同样来自波士顿咨询公司的数据显示，在美国，按生产力调整过的制造业工资从2004年至今增长了不到30%，达到22.32美元/每小时。而美国工人比中国多出来的工资成本，被那里更低的天然气价格、价格低廉的棉花原料，以及当地的税收优惠和补贴所抵消。
Today, for every $1 required to manufacture in the United States, Boston Consulting estimates that it costs 96 cents to manufacture in China. Yarn production costs in China are now 30 percent higher than in the United States, according to the International Textile Manufacturers Federation.
据波士顿咨询集团估计，如今在美国平均花1美元生产的东西，在中国需要花费96美分。国际纺织制造商联合会(International Textile Manufacturers Federation)的数据显示，纺纱业在中国的成本比在美国高出30%。
“Everybody believed that China would always be cheaper,” said Harold L. Sirkin, a senior partner at Boston Consulting. “But things are changing even faster than anyone imagined.”
“所有人都觉得，中国的成本永远会更低，”波士顿咨询集团的高级合伙人哈罗德·L·西尔肯(Harold L. Sirkin)说。“但情况正在发生变化，速度超过了所有人的想象。”
Rising costs in China are causing a shift of some types of manufacturing to lower-cost countries like Bangladesh, India and Vietnam. In many cases, the exodus has been led by the Chinese themselves, who have aggressively moved to set up manufacturing bases elsewhere.
中国不断上涨的生产成本正引起一些类型的生产商向孟加拉国、印度和越南等低成本国转移。很多情况下，企业的大批离开都是由中国人自己主导的，这些人已经开始大举在其他地区建立生产基地。
In recent years, the United States has started to get more attention from that exodus. From 2000 to 2014, Chinese companies invested $46 billion on new projects and acquisitions in the United States, much of it in the last five years, according to a report published in May by the Rhodium Group, a New York research firm.
最近几年，开始有一部分生产商转向美国。纽约调研公司荣鼎咨询(Rhodium Group)今年5月发布的一份报告显示，从2000年到2014年，中国企业在美国投资的新项目和收购项目价值达460亿美元，其中有很多都发生在过去五年。
The Carolinas are now home to at least 20 Chinese manufacturers, including Keer and Sun Fiber, which set up a polyester fiber plant in Richburg, S.C., last year. And in Lancaster County, negotiations are underway with two more textile companies, from Taiwan and the Chinese mainland.
北卡罗来纳州和南卡罗来纳州现在至少有20家中国生产商落户，包括科尔集团和太阳纤维(Sun Fiber)公司，后者去年在南卡罗来纳州的里奇堡(Richburg)建立了一家聚酯纤维厂。在兰开斯特县，与来自台湾和中国大陆的另外两家纺织企业的谈判正在进行当中。
“I never thought the Chinese would be the ones bringing textile jobs back,” said Keith Tunnell, president of the Lancaster County Economic Development Corporation, who helped put together subsidies for Keer estimated at about $20 million, including infrastructure grants, revenue bonds and tax credits.
“我从没想过，会是中国人给这里带回纺织业工作机会，”兰开斯特县经济发展公司(Lancaster County Economic Development Corporation)总裁基思·滕内尔(Keith Tunnell)说道，他帮助科尔集团获得了价值约2000万美元的补贴，包括基础设施补助、收益债券和税收减免。
The inner workings of Keer’s factory in Lancaster County help demonstrate why yarn can now be produced for such a low cost in the United States and point to the kind of capital-intensive manufacturing that could thrive again in America.
科尔集团兰开斯特县工厂的内部运作，说明了为什么纱线在美国的生产成本会如此之低，也表明资本密集型生产可以在美国再度兴盛起来。
Inside the 230,000-square-foot spinning plant, giant machines help clean the seeds and dirt from the cotton and send the fluff into carding machines that assemble the cotton into thick, long ropes of fiber. Workers then feed the ropes into machines that spin the cotton into spools of yarn or thread.
在这个面积达23万平方英尺（约合2.14万平方米）的纺纱厂内，巨大的机器可以将棉花的种子和尘土剔除，将这些毛絮送入梳棉机，梳棉机再把它们整理成长长的粗棉条。然后工人们把棉条放入纺纱机，纺成一卷一卷的纱线。
The work is highly automated, with the factory’s 32 production lines churning out about 85 tons of yarn a day. Even when Keer opens a second factory next year, it will hire just 500 workers, a fraction of the thousands of workers who toiled at cotton mills across the South for much of the 19th and 20th centuries — a big reason Keer is able to keep costs down.
生产过程高度自动化。这家工厂的32条生产线一天会产出大约85吨纱线。即便明年开设第二家工厂，科尔也只会雇佣500名员工。与19及20世纪大量时间里，在美国南方各地的棉纺厂里辛苦劳作的成千上万名工人相比，这仅相当于一小部分。这也是科尔能够降低成本的一大原因。
The spools of yarn are then shipped through the port of Charleston to textile and apparel manufacturers across Asia. Keer also hopes to sell to apparel manufacturers in Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean, where many nations enjoy privileged access to the American market as part of separate trading pacts — as long as the yarn is made in a member country.
生产出来之后，线轴会通过查尔斯顿港，运至亚洲各地的纺织厂和服装厂。科尔还希望将货卖给墨西哥、中美洲和和加勒比海地区的服装厂。按照另外的贸易协定的规定，这些国家和地区有进入美国市场的特权，只要纱线产地是协定的成员国。
Sheng Lu, an apparel and textiles expert at the University of Rhode Island, said the high capital intensity of modern yarn-spinning meant that American mills were becoming increasingly competitive.
罗德岛大学(University of Rhode Island)的服装和纺织业专家陆圣表示，现代纺纱业资本密集度高的特点意味着，位于美国的纺纱厂正在变得越来越有竞争力。
“Common sense says that the U.S. imports textiles and apparel from China,” he said. “Now some of that is reversed.”
“常识认为，美国从中国进口纺织品和服装，”他说。“现在，部分情况出现了逆转。”
But cutting and sewing clothes, he said, still relies so much on labor that “it’s just impossible for the U.S. to be competitive.”
不过，衣服的裁剪和缝制依然要大量依靠人工，因此“美国基本不可能在这方面变得有竞争力”。
Investment in American textiles has not come just from China. Last year, the ShriVallabh Pittie Group, a leading textile manufacturer in India, broke ground on a $70 million factory in Sylvania, Ga., the area’s first new manufacturing plant in four decades. And Santana Textiles, a large Brazilian denim manufacturer, announced in 2012 that it would open a spinning, dyeing and weaving facility in Edinburg, Tex., though full-scale production has been delayed.
对美国纺织业的投资不仅来自中国。去年，印度的知名纺织品生产商斯里维拉皮蒂集团(ShriVallabh Pittie Group)在乔治亚州的西尔韦尼亚投资7000万美元的工厂破土动工。这是该地区40年来新建的首座制造业工厂。2012年，巴西大型牛仔布生产商桑塔纳纺织品公司(Santana Textiles)宣布将在德克萨斯州的爱丁堡开设一家集纺纱、染色和织布为一体的工厂。不过，那里的全面生产推迟了。
“The whole textile world is looking at us,” Vinod Pittie, chairman of the ShriVallabh Pittie Group, said at the factory’s groundbreaking ceremony, predicting that the success of the venture would draw other entrepreneurs to open plants in Georgia.
“整个纺织界都在看着我们，”斯里维拉皮蒂集团的董事长维诺德·皮蒂(Vinod Pittie)在工厂的动工仪式上说。他还预言，自家企业的成功，会吸引其他业内人士来乔治亚州办厂。
For residents of South Carolina, Keer’s arrival could not have come soon enough. A generation of weavers and spinners lost their jobs when Springs Industries, which once ran some of the world’s biggest cotton mills in the city of Lancaster, closed its last plant in 2007, selling off its machines to a company in Brazil.
对南卡罗来纳州的民众来说，科尔来得太及时了。2007年，斯普林斯实业公司(Springs Industries)关闭了最后一家工厂，将机器出售给巴西的一家公司，一代织布工和纺纱工就此失业。要知道，斯普林斯实业一度在兰开斯特市经营着在全世界都规模名列前茅的一些棉纺厂。
The global economic crisis hit soon afterward. By June 2009, Lancaster County’s unemployment rate had reached 18.6 percent.
不久后，全球经济危机爆发。到2009年6月，兰开斯特县的失业率达到了18.6%。
“They shut them down one by one,” said Donnie R. Gordon, who spent 17 years weaving cotton at Springs Industries until he was laid off in the 1990s. He now works in maintenance for the Lancaster County school system. “You could make good money at the mills, but those jobs just went away.”
“他们一家接一家地关闭工厂，”唐尼·R·戈登(Donnie R. Gordon)说。他在斯普林斯实业公司织了17年棉布，直到90年代被裁员。现在，他在兰开斯特县的教育系统从事维修工作。“当时在纺织厂很赚钱，但那些岗位就那么没了。”
But shrinking manufacturing jobs have spurred a willingness in places like Lancaster County to work for lower pay, making them increasingly attractive production bases. Global manufacturers have also been drawn to so-called right-to-work states like South Carolina, where there is little unionization.
然而，制造业工作岗位的不断减少，也促使兰开斯特县等地的人愿意从事工资更低的工作，从而让这些地方成了越来越有吸引力的生产基地。全球生产商也被吸引到了南卡罗来纳等通过了“工作权”立法的州。在这些州里，几乎没有工会组织。
“I think I’m going to like it here,” said Enabel Perez, a former apparel factory worker and one of Ms. Ni’s trainees. Ms. Perez said she had jumped at Keer’s call for workers, an event welcomed in Lancaster County with a segment on the evening news.
“我觉得我会喜欢这里的，”曾是服装厂工人的埃娜贝尔·佩雷斯(Enabel Perez)说。如今正在接受倪美娟培训的她说，得知科尔招工时，她马上就来了。在兰开斯特县的晚间新闻上，有一段专门介绍科尔招工的内容。
Keer’s gamble in America is not without risks. The strong dollar, for one, has added to the costs of producing in the United States. Water shortages in Arizona and California could also threaten cotton production, as well as jeopardize already endangered cotton subsidies.
科尔在美国的冒险并不是没有风险。举例来说，美元的强势增加了在这里的生产成本。亚利桑那州和加利福尼亚州的水资源短缺也可能会威胁棉花产量，并危及本就不大可靠的棉花补贴。
The outcome of stalled negotiations over the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a free-trade agreement that leaves out China, will also affect Keer’s American prospects. American negotiators are pushing for rules that would require apparel makers in member countries to use yarn from within the trade zone to enjoy tariff reductions. By producing yarn in America, Keer is hedging its bets, making sure it can continue to supply yarn to apparel manufacturers to countries like Vietnam that are within the T.P.P. trade zone.
围绕自由贸易协议跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）的谈判陷入了停滞，而该协定不包括中国在内。谈判结果也会影响科尔在美国的前景。美方谈判代表正在推动一些规则，其中要求成员国的服装生产商只有使用来自该贸易区内部的纱线，才能享受关税减免。通过在美国生产纱线，科尔是在增加胜算，确保能继续向TPP贸易区内部的越南等国的服装生产商供应纱线。
Then there are the cultural differences. Ms. Ni, one of 15 Chinese trainers at Keer’s Indian Land plant, complained softly of American workers’ occasional tardiness. In China, she said, managers can dock the pay of workers who show up late. But here, she said, she felt frustrated that she could not discipline tardy staff.
此外，还有文化差异。在位于印地安兰德的科尔工厂，倪美娟是15名中国培训人员中的一员。她对美国工人偶尔出现的拖拉进行了轻微的抱怨。她说，在中国，管理人员可以扣迟到员工的薪水。但在这里，不能惩罚迟到员工让她有点心烦。
Robbie Sowers, a 32-year textile industry veteran who maintains the plant’s spinning machines, called such differences minor. He said Keer managers had started giving workers six minutes’ leeway before calling them late.
32岁的罗比·索尔斯(Robbie Sowers)是纺织行业的老手，如今在科尔的工厂维护纺纱机。他认为这种差异不足挂齿。他说，科尔的管理人员已经开始给工人6分钟的余地，过了这个时间才说他们迟到。
“There’s a lot of talent and experience here in South Carolina,” he said. “It’s just a matter of getting used to the American way of working.”
“在南卡罗来纳州这里，有很多有才能和经验的人，”他说。“不过是一个习惯美国的工作方式的问题。”