MILAN — I was talking to an Italian couple whose daughter had gone to live for a while in the United States before returning to run a restaurant on Lake Garda. They have a modest apartment in Santa Margherita on the coast of Liguria. The garden is bigger than the living quarters, filled with lemon trees (their fruit as big as baseballs), orange trees and orchids. The couple, now retired, has time to linger in the fragrant air of the dusk.
米兰——最近，我和一对意大利老夫妇聊天，他们的女儿在美国生活了一段时间，又回来在加尔达湖边开了一家餐馆。他们在利古里亚海滨的圣马尔盖里塔有一所朴素的公寓。花园比居住区要大，里面种满了果实像棒球一样大的柠檬树、橙子树和兰花。这对已经退休的夫妇有很多时间可以徜徉在黄昏的馨香空气里。
In the kitchen, it seemed to me, they have all they need: a machine to slice wafer-thin prosciutto, a toaster capacious enough for glistening focaccia, a scale to weigh out 200 grams of pasta. They prepared a rabbit simmered in an unctuous sauce of olives, pine nuts, sausage and rabbit liver, accompanied by perfect little cubes of sautéed potatoes that are time-consuming to prepare but worth every patient flip and stir.
在我看来，他们的厨房里什么都不缺了：有把帕尔玛火腿切成薄片的机器、空间足以把佛卡夏面包烤得油汪汪的烤箱、一台可以称出200克意面的台秤。他们用橄榄、松子、香肠、兔肝熬成的油润汤汁炖了一只兔子，佐餐的是切得方方正正的煎土豆块，这样切了又煎很是耗时，但每一次耐心的翻搅都是值得的。
Rabbit is underrated, a culinary victim of prejudice or misplaced affection, but not by Italians, who consume it often and with gusto.
兔肉作为美食是被低估了。因为偏见和没有道理的喜爱，兔子在烹饪方面的价值被忽视了。不过意大利人并非如此，他们经常会满怀热情地享用兔肉。
In any event, my host, Sergio, was recalling visits to the United States to see their daughter. There were memorable renderings of “O Sole Mio” on gondolas in Las Vegas (beneath the Rialto Bridge on the “Grand Canal”), and then there was the time they were in New Mexico and “drove for 85 miles in a dead straight line.”
不管怎样，主人谢尔吉奥(Sergio)还是向我回忆起了前去美国探望女儿的经历。拉斯维加斯的贡多拉上高唱的《我的太阳》(O Sole Mio)让人难忘——场景是在“大运河”(Grand Canal)上的里亚托桥下。之后，还有在新墨西哥州的经历，“一连开85英里，完全是直线”。
He looked me: “Not one curve. Can you believe it?”
他看着我说：“一点不拐弯，你能相信吗？”
I could — made me think of Highway 101 in California. He couldn’t. Life in Italy is a series of curves to which you adapt. There is zero scope for autopilot.
我能，这让我想起加州的101公路。他却感觉不可思议。意大利的生活总是有一系列曲折蜿蜒之处需要你去适应，丝毫没有自动驾驶的空间。
Adaptation and adjustment are the name of the game. This can be trying. On the other hand you can enjoy lemon zest from your own lemons, perhaps with salmon and those 200 grams of penne.
在这里，人们时常需要灵活适应，而这有时是一种考验。但在另一方面，你还可以享用自家柠檬树产出的柠檬皮，或许还可以再配上三文鱼和200克直通心粉。
It was May 1, International Workers’ Day, a holiday. Yet, most people were working, a lot of stores open. I heard the following exchange:
那天是5月1日，国际劳动节。这天是假期，可大多数人都在工作，很多商店也都开着。我听到了下面这样的对话：
“It’s the workers’ holiday and everyone is working!”
“今天劳动节啊，怎么所有人都在工作！”
“Yes, I know, but of course they don’t work the rest of the time!”
“是啊，不过反正他们在别的日子不工作的。”
“That’s true.”
“的确。”
There’s still a continuous banter in the streets of Italy, as when I lived here 30 years ago. Italy has cherry-picked modernity, taking only so much. Something in it has resisted the reduction of human interaction to the transactional minimum. Something in it has resisted the squeezing of the last cent of profit from every exchange. Something in it recognizes the human need for community and what a couple of sentences to a stranger can do. There are still innocent smiles in Italy, something you can only call humility. They don’t teach you that at marketing school. They don’t tell you how monotonous self-promotion can become, how tiresome, and finally inhuman. People return to Italy for its beauty, of course, but also for a refuge from relentlessness. Conversations veer here and there in the elasticity of Italian time, loosened from the constraints of time as a metric of productivity.
像我30年前在这里生活时一样，意大利街头总有人不停地开着玩笑。意大利对现代性挑三拣四，只汲取了有限的部分。意大利的特质里，有那么一部分很抵触将人际互动化约到最低限接触的做法；它有一部分特质十分抵触将每次交流中每一分钱的利润都榨取出来；它还有一部分特质承认，人是需要社区的，也承认陌生人的几句交谈能起到一些作用。在意大利，仍然有纯真的微笑，这恐怕只能称作谦逊，这一点营销学院里是不会教的。它们无法教会你，单调的自我推销会变得多么让人厌烦，最终又多么非人。人们回到意大利当然是为了它的美，但也是为了躲避永不停歇的纷扰。对话在意大利很有弹性的时间观念里自如游走，不再受到作为生产率衡量标准的时间的束缚。
At the pharmacy, where it’s better to have a prescription but rules can be bent, I heard this:
在药店里，最好要有处方，但规矩总可以灵活处理。我听到了这样的对话：
“We don’t live in Italy.”
“我们不住在意大利。”
“Better that way!”
“那就更好啦！”
“Why?”
“为什么呢？”
“Everything is difficult here.”
“在这里做所有事都很难。”
It is. Efficiency was not one of the cherry-picked items. Arriving at Milan Linate airport for the first time in decades, I found the same cumbersome buses from aircraft to terminal. The ATM machine was broken, the Information Desk unmanned. Strange, the Milan world’s fair, Expo 2015, has just opened — a time, if any, to spruce things up. The themes of the fair are guaranteeing food security; combating waste (Italy has much to do); improving nutrition (I can’t see that rabbit being beaten); and preserving the environment.
的确。比如意大利就没有搞定“效率”这个东西。我在几十年之后第一次来到米兰的利纳特(Linate)机场，我发现下飞机到航站楼要坐同样笨重的巴士。ATM机是坏的、问询台没有人。奇怪，米兰的2015年世界博览会(Expo 2015)刚刚开幕，现在不收拾收拾，还等什么时候呢？这届世博会的主题是保障食品安全、打击浪费（在这个方面意大利还有很多事情要做）、改善营养（还有什么能比那只兔子更棒）、保护环境。
On opening day, May 1, a bunch of hooded anti-capitalist thugs calling themselves “Black bloc” smashed up the center of Milan in a mindless protest against Expo-as-capitalist-enterprise. Policemen were beaten, cars set on fire. Over the following weekend the people of Milan took to the streets armed with sponges, cloths, solvents and soap, determined to clean up their city. They did, in short order.
在5月1日开幕当天，一群自称是“黑暗势力”(Black bloc)、穿着帽衫的反资本主义混混，在米兰市中心漫无目的地打砸，对作为资本主义事业的世博会表达抗议。他们殴打警察、纵火焚烧汽车。在之后的周末，米兰民众走上街头，带着海绵、抹布、清洁剂和肥皂，下定决心要清洁整个城市。他们很快就做到了。
The state is still weak in Italy. But community — family, friends, city, region — is often powerful. Assessments of Italy’s condition tend to underestimate the effectiveness of these hardship-cushioning ties.
在意大利，国家力量依然很弱。但是社区——家庭、朋友、市镇、地区——往往都很强大。在评估意大利的状况时，往往会低估这些在面临困难时充当缓冲的纽带有多么有效。
Matteo Renzi, the young prime minister, has just pushed through an important electoral reform law aimed at ending semi-chronic government instability. Broadly, it gives the winning party, provided it has 40 percent of the vote, a bonus that guarantees it 340 seats in the 630-seat chamber. (If no party has 40 percent, there is a runoff between the two largest parties).
年轻的意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)刚刚推行了一项重大的选举改革法案，旨在终结近乎顽固的政府不稳定的问题。这项法案大体上保证，只要获胜的政党赢得40%的选票，该党就能得到奖励，保证它能在有630个席位的议会里得到340个席位。（如果没有一个政党能得到40%的选票，则两大政党进入第二轮投票。）