For anyone wondering how former President Barack Obama is adjusting to life under the Trump administration, know this: He seems to be doing just fine.
如果你想知道前总统奥巴马对特朗普上台后的生活适应得如何，他似乎适应得很好。
Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle Obama, took a vacation to the British Virgin Islands, where they have been hosted by Richard Branson, the chief executive of the Virgin Group.
奥巴马和妻子米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)到英属维尔京群岛度了一个假，维珍集团的首席执行官理查德·布兰森(Richard Branson)招待了他们。
On Tuesday, Mr. Branson published a blog post, along with photos and video, showing Mr. Obama learning to kitesurf.
周二，布兰森发表了一篇博文，并配上了照片和视频，可以看到奥巴马正在学习风筝冲浪。
Yes, he seems to be doing just fine.
是的，他似乎过得不错。
Mr. Branson wrote that Mr. Obama spent two days learning how to stay afloat and navigate kitesurfing.
布兰森写道，奥巴马花了两天时间学习如何漂浮在水面，进行风筝冲浪。
“Being the former president of America, there was lots of security around, but Barack was able to really relax and get into it,” Mr. Branson wrote.
“作为美国前总统，身边围绕着很多安保人员，但是巴拉克可以真正放松下来，享受风筝冲浪，”布兰森写道。
While Mr. Obama was enjoying the wind and the waves, his vice president, Joseph R. Biden Jr., announced details of his post-presidency work.
就在奥巴马享受海风和海浪的时候，他的副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)也宣布了自己卸任之后的详细安排。
Mr. Biden will lead the University of Pennsylvania’s Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement, a new effort “focused principally on diplomacy, foreign policy and national security,” the university announced on Tuesday.
宾夕法尼亚大学本周二宣布，拜登将领导该校的宾州拜登外交和全球参与中心(Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement)，这个新中心“主要侧重于外交、外交政策和国家安全”。
Mr. Biden said in a statement: “The Penn Biden Center and I will be engaging with Penn’s wonderful students while partnering with its eminent faculty and global centers to convene world leaders, develop and advance smart policy, and impact the national debate about how America can continue to lead in the 21st Century.”
拜登在一份声明中说：“我和宾大拜登中心将与宾大的优秀学子合作，与著名教师和全球中心合作，召集全球领导人，制订和推进明智的政策，对于美国如何继续在21世纪保持领先地位的全国性讨论施加影响。”
The center will be in Washington, but Mr. Biden will also have an office on the campus of the University of Pennsylvania, which is a short Amtrak ride away in Philadelphia. The campus is also a fairly short trip from Delaware, where Mr. Biden served as a senator for 36 years and where he maintains deep roots.
该中心将设在华盛顿，但是拜登在宾夕法尼亚大学的校园里也有办公室，从费城到该大学有美铁(Amtrak)短程列车。从特拉华州到该校也相当近。拜登在特拉华州担任参议员36年，在那里一直有深厚的根基。
He will also be working with the University of Delaware, his alma mater. The university announced on Tuesday that Mr. Biden would be the founding chairman of the Biden Institute, which it described as “a new research and policy center focused on developing public policy solutions on issues ranging from economic reform and environmental sustainability to civil rights, criminal justice, women’s rights and more.”
他还将与母校特拉华大学合作。该大学周二宣布，拜登将成为拜登研究所(Biden Institute)的创始主席，该研究所是“一个新的研究和政策中心，专注于制订从经济改革、环境可持续性，到公民权利、刑事司法、妇女权利等公共政策的解决方案”。
The former vice president and his wife, Jill Biden, intend to split time between a lakeside home in Greenville, Del., a Wilmington suburb, and a home in Washington. Dr. Biden plans to continue teaching English at a community college in Northern Virginia.
这位前副总统和他的妻子吉尔·拜登(Jill Biden)打算在威尔明顿郊区格林维尔湖畔的住宅和华盛顿的住宅来回住。拜登夫人计划继续在北弗吉尼亚的社区学院教英语。
The couple previously announced the creation of the Biden Foundation as a platform to advance priorities like military families, preventing violence against women and a “moonshot” to cure cancer.
这对夫妇之前宣布创建拜登基金会(Biden Foundation)，将其作为一个平台来推进优先事项，比如军属事务、防止暴力侵害妇女，以及一个癌症“登月”项目。