The biggest test yet of American investors’ appetite for a Chinese Internet company has passed with flying colors — and it doesn’t involve the Alibaba Group, that country’s e-commerce giant.
美国投资者对中国互联网公司的胃口有多大？对于这个问题，迄今最大的考验已经轻松通过——而且，这里并没有闪现中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团的身影。
Instead, JD.com, an online retailer aspiring to become China’s answer to Amazon.com, exceeded expectations for its initial public offering on Wednesday, raising $1.78 billion.
经受考验的是京东，一家有志于成为中国的亚马逊(Amazon.com)的在线零售商。本周三，它的首次公开募股(IPO)的表现超过预期，筹集了17.8亿美元（约合110亿元人民币）资金。
Even though the company has lost money for the last several years, its stock sale valued the company at $25.7 billion, a valuation even higher than Twitter’s at its market debut last fall.
尽管该公司过去几年在亏损，它的股价却将公司估值定为257亿美元，甚至高于Twitter去年秋天在股市上首次亮相的估值。
The warm reception for JD.com reflects investor hunger for the wave of fast-growing Chinese companies that are going public in the United States to stake their claim as global technology powers.
市场对京东的热烈反应，体现了投资者对一批快速增长的中国企业的渴求。这些公司力图成为一股全球性的科技势力，因此选择在美国上市。
The biggest of these budding titans remains Alibaba, something of an amalgam of eBay, Amazon and Google, whose astounding growth has inflated expectations for its forthcoming I.P.O. Analysts have speculated that Alibaba may be worth as much as $200 billion when it finally goes public, more than the value of Facebook or Amazon.
在这些正在崭露头角的巨头中，最大的一家仍然是阿里巴巴。它类似于eBay、亚马逊和谷歌(Google)的混合体，其惊人的高增长已经吊起了人们对它即将进行的IPO的胃口。分析人士猜测，阿里巴巴最终上市的时候，市值可能高达2000亿美元，超过Facebook和亚马逊。
These Chinese companies have drawn intense interest because they offer shareholders a way to tap China’s enormous growth.
这些中国公司之所以引起了人们的强烈兴趣，是因为它们为股东提供了一种从中国的巨大增长中分一杯羹的途径。
“They’re basically directional bets on the Chinese consumer economy,” said Rett Wallace, the chief executive and co-founder of Triton Research.
“他们基本上是把赌注瞄准了中国的消费经济，”投资研究公司Triton Research的首席执行官和联合创始人瑞特·华莱士(Rett Wallace)说。
JD.com, however, is coming to market at a time when the once-torrid pace of technology I.P.O.s has slowed significantly amid concerns over high valuations. Some once-hot stocks, like the security firm FireEye, are trading below their offering prices.
然而，京东上市的这个当口，由于人们对高估值感到担忧，科技公司一度火爆的IPO步伐已经显著放缓；一些曾经的热门股，比如安全公司火眼(FireEye)的股票，现在已经跌破了发行价。
But the allure of a fast-growing Chinese Internet company appears to have proved powerful: The number of orders for the retailer’s stock was 15 times oversubscribed, according to a person briefed on the matter. Shares in JD.com will begin trading on the Nasdaq on Thursday, under the symbol JD.
但是，事实证明，快速增长的中国互联网企业散发的诱惑似乎颇为强烈：一位知情人士透露，京东股票被超额认购15倍。公司股票将于本周四开始在纳斯达克交易，代码为JD。
By many measures, JD.com is not nearly as big as Alibaba, whether by revenue or market value. But the retailer, whose backers include the Chinese mobile software giant Tencent, has established itself as a significant force in its home market on the back of its expansive online shopping empire.
无论是从营收还是市场价值等多个方面来看，京东都跟阿里巴巴的实力相差悬殊。但在中国市场上，京东已经将自己塑造为了背靠庞大网上购物帝国的一支重要力量，它的投资者中包括中国移动软件业巨头腾讯。
JD.com, which began as a seller of electronics, now claims to be the biggest direct seller to Chinese consumers, with $20.7 billion worth of goods sold directly to customers last year.
京东最初销售电子产品，现在号称是规模最大的直接面向中国消费者的零售商。去年，该公司将价值207亿美元的货物直接销售给了用户。
Much of the company’s appeal lies in the relatively unconquered Chinese e-commerce market. In its prospectus, JD.com noted that less than 50 percent of the country’s population was online. And online shopping is expected to grow about 27 percent each year, according to the iResearch Consulting Group.
该公司很大一部分的吸引力在于，中国的电子商务市场还有很大的潜力可挖。在招股说明书中，京东指出，中国人中有超过50%还没有上网。艾瑞咨询集团(iResearch Consulting Group)预计，中国的网上购物业务每年的增幅约为27%。
Though many investors have directly compared JD.com to Alibaba, the two operate differently. JD.com maintains a significant amount of product inventory and owns much of its shipping and logistics network, a business model that many have likened to Amazon’s core business.
虽然很多投资者把京东跟阿里巴巴直接进行比较，但这两家公司的经营模式并不相同。京东拥有大量产品库存，并掌握着自身运输和物流网络中的很大一部分。很许多人认为，这与亚马逊的核心业务经营模式类似。
But Alibaba serves primarily as a middleman between customers and sellers, akin to parts of eBay and Amazon. Alibaba’s is a much less expensive operating model that gives the company its eye-popping margins: Operating profits in the first nine months of its 2013 fiscal year amounted to 48 percent of revenue, a ratio that is the envy of Silicon Valley giants.
阿里巴巴则主要是担任卖家和买家的中间人，与eBay和亚马逊的部分业务类似。阿里巴巴运营模式的成本要低得多，令它赚取了令人瞠目结舌的利润：在其2013财年的前九个月中，阿里巴巴的营运利润率为48%，令硅谷巨头们羡慕。
By contrast, JD.com has reported a loss in each of the last five years, even as its sales have ballooned. Last year, for instance, the company lost $8 million, despite racking up $11.5 billion in sales.
相比之下，京东在过去五年里一直亏损，虽然在此期间销售额激增。例如去年，尽管京东的销售额达115亿美元，却亏损了800万美元。
The company has instead reinvested significantly in its operations, following Amazon’s example and betting that investors will give it the same sort of leeway that they allow the American retailer. Among its biggest costs has been investing in a delivery network that offers same-day delivery in 43 Chinese cities.
然而，京东仍然以亚马逊为榜样，将大笔利润投回到运营方面，押注自己会像这家美国零售商一样，受到投资者的青睐。其中一笔规模较大的支出是对物流网络的投资，目的是在中国的43座城市实现当日送达。
Running such an operation is likely to be costly over time, though the company has argued that it reaps other benefits from that spending.
这样的业务可能会带来很大的长期成本，不过京东称，从这笔支出中得到了其他收益。
“It really has been able to control the customer experience,” said Kelland Willis, an analyst at Forrester Research.
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)的分析师凯兰·威利斯(Kelland Willis)说，“京东一直都能够掌控客户体验。”
JD.com also benefits from its association with Tencent, an Internet software company often considered the biggest rival to Alibaba. Tencent purchased a 15 percent stake in JD.com this spring, and it formally acquired an additional 5 percent on Wednesday in a transaction tied to the I.P.O.
京东还从与腾讯的合作中受益。互联网软件公司腾讯经常被看作是阿里巴巴的最大竞争对手。今年春天，腾讯收购了京东15%的股权。本周三，在与这次IPO有关的交易中，腾讯又收购了京东5%的股权。
The tie-up had benefits for both sides. JD.com took over much of Tencent’s e-commerce operations. It also gained access to something that may be even more valuable down the road: WeChat, the enormously popular messaging service that Tencent runs, which claims about 400 million monthly active users.
这种联合对双方都有利。京东不仅获得了腾讯很大一部分的电子商务业务，还获得了利用腾讯旗下大受欢迎的即时通讯服务微信的优势。这个优势的价值可能在未来进一步突显。腾讯宣称，微信的每月活跃用户有4亿左右。
Already, about 18 percent of JD.com’s orders come via mobile devices.
目前，京东大约18%的订单来自移动设备。
“They’re integrated into the biggest messaging app in China,” Ms. Willis said. “It does give them an advantage.”
威利斯说，“京东和中国最大的即时通讯应用实现了融合，这的确让它获得了优势。”
JD.com’s offering also will bestow wealth — both realized and on paper — on its existing investors. The biggest is the company’s founder and chief executive, Richard Qiangdong Liu, who will sell shares in the I.P.O., but will still control billions of dollars’ worth of its stock.
京东的上市也会给现有投资者带来财富——无论是拿到手的真金白银还是纸面财富。最大的受益者是创始人兼首席执行官刘强东，他将在公司上市后出售部分股份，但仍会控制着价值数十亿美元的公司股票。
Other big winners are Western concerns including Tiger Global Management, an investment firm, and DST Global, the Russian investment concern. Both are also expected to keep multibillion-dollar stakes.
一些西方企业也将成为大赢家，包括投资公司老虎全球基金(Tiger Global Management)，以及俄罗斯投资公司DST全球(DST Global)。预计这两家公司都将持有价值数十亿美元的京东股份。
While those investors will benefit from the eagerness of newcomers, analysts have raised concerns about parts of JD.com’s structure, among them the unusual power the company’s founder will have. Thanks to his ownership of a second, much more powerful class of stock, Mr. Liu will continue to exert an enormous amount of control, wielding an effective 84 percent of the retailer’s voting power.
尽管这些投资者将因后来者的热烈追捧而大赚一笔，分析师们已经表达了对京东股权结构的担忧，例如，创始人刘强东将拥有过大的权限。由于持有的股份特殊，能赋予他大得多的权力，刘强东仍将对公司施加绝对的控制，行使84%的实际表决权。