BEIJING — When “The Legend of the White Snake” opens Wednesday at the David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center, an American audience will get its first glimpse of Zhang Huoding, one of China’s biggest Peking Opera stars, as she makes her United States debut.
北京——周三，中国首屈一指的京剧明星张火丁将携《白蛇传》在林肯中心大卫·H·寇克剧院(David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center)初次登上美国的舞台。届时，美国观众将首次一睹她的风姿。
Ms. Zhang, a lithe, delicate woman of 44, is a megastar in Beijing. She has performed for sold-out crowds here and in Shanghai, captivating audiences, including legions of young fans, with her sorrowful eyes, deep vocal intonations and graceful displays of martial arts. In 2007, she was the first star of the Peking Opera genre to perform solo at the Great Hall of the People, the seat of China’s central government.
44岁的张火丁身段柔软，体态轻盈，是北京的一位大明星。她在北京和上海的演出场场爆满。她那哀伤的眼神、低沉的嗓音和优美的舞蹈动作令观众着迷，其中包括大批年轻戏迷。2007年，她成为在中国权力机构所在地人民大会堂进行个人独唱表演的首个京剧明星。
She will be the subject of a documentary planned by the acclaimed Hong Kong director Wong Kar-wai, who in 2013 captured the elegance of Chinese martial arts in his film “The Grandmaster.” And the Chinese government is promoting her shows at Lincoln Center as part of a “soft power” push aimed at building good will overseas with performances and spectacles that showcase China’s rich cultural heritage.
香港著名导演王家卫(Wong Kar-wai)计划将镜头对准她，拍摄一部纪录片。在2013年的电影《一代宗师》中，王家卫生动刻画了中国武术的优雅。中国政府正在将张火丁在林肯中心的演出作为推动本国“软实力”的一项活动来宣传。这种努力旨在用能展示中国丰富的文化遗产的演出和展出，在海外打造中国的美好形象。
“She’s got this special, evocative quality onstage, an aura and charm that seems to enchant the audience,” says David Wang, a Harvard literature scholar who has followed her career. “But she also has this tremendous vocal capacity that renders in a kind of low-key, melancholy way.”
“她在台上有一种能引起共鸣的特质，这种气质和魅力像是会对观众施魔法，”关注张火丁职业生涯的哈佛大学文学学者王德威(David Wang)说。“不过她的声音也有一种巨大的容量，能渲染出一种低调而悲伤的氛围。”
Ms. Zhang, who now spends much of her time teaching at the National Academy of Chinese Theater Arts in Beijing, sees her New York appearances as a way to promote and preserve an exquisite art form that is unlike anything else in the world of performing arts.
现在，张火丁把大量时间用于在中国戏曲学院教课上。她认为自己在纽约的登台亮相，是宣传和保护京剧这一高雅艺术形式的一个途径，而在表演艺术界，京剧不同于世界上其他任何一种艺术形式。
“Me and other performers are trying our best to let more people know about Peking Opera,” she said in an interview. “We’re devoted to this art form and want others to recognize its beauty.”
“我和其他演员都在尽力让更多人了解京剧，”她在接受采访时说。“我们自己献身于这种艺术，也希望其他人能认识到它的美。”
Her journey to the stage, she says, began in Jilin Province in northeast China, where she grew up in a family of traditional opera performers. Her father toured with a troupe that performed a regional form of opera called Pingju, which is common in Hebei Province; and her older brother began studying Peking Opera as a child.
张火丁表示自己的表演生涯始于吉林省。她在一个传统曲艺之家长大，父亲会随剧团巡回演出，表演评剧。评剧是一种地方戏曲，常见于河北。她的哥哥则是从儿时便开始学习京剧。
Ms. Zhang was about 9 when she fell in love with the sounds and rhythms of Peking Opera — the gongs, wooden clappers and sorrowful tunes played by the jinghu, a high-pitched Chinese fiddle. “Peking Opera had a calming effect on me, and it still does,” she says.
大约9岁时，张火丁爱上了京剧的声音和节奏，包括锣声、梆子声和京胡弹奏出的哀伤曲调。京胡相当于中国的小提琴，音色高亮。“京剧有一种能让我平静下来的力量，现在依然有，”她说。
But to her dismay, three times over the next five years, she failed to gain admission to a regional training academy. After pleading with her parents for private lessons, she was sent to Beijing to study with an elderly couple.
但让她失望的是，在接下来的五年里，她三次报考一家地区性培训学校却均以失败告终。在请求父母允许她参加私人课程后，她被送去北京，师从一对上了年纪的夫妇。
“I remember going to their home and sleeping on their sofa for three months,” Ms. Zhang recalled. “This old couple would wake up early and go to the park, and I’d go with them and they’d teach me. That was the beginning of my study of Peking Opera.”
“我还记得去他们家，睡了三个月的沙发，”张火丁回忆道。“这对老夫妇会早早起床去公园，我和他们一起，他们就会教我。我就是这么开始学京剧的。”
Soon after, at 15, relatively late for an opera student, she enrolled in a school in Tianjin, but only after her father wrote a letter to the school’s president, explaining his daughter’s passion for Peking Opera.
不久后，在父亲给天津一所学校的校长写了一封信，表达了女儿对京剧的酷爱之后，15岁的张火丁得以入读该校。相对于其他研习戏曲的学生，这个年龄有些晚。
The program was grueling, and the cost of tuition created an enormous burden for her parents, whose income was modest. Ms. Zhang said that while in school, she also had doubts about whether she was good enough and whether she’d be able to find a job after completing her studies, since the competition for positions in Peking Opera troupes was fierce.
学校的课程令她精疲力尽，学费也给收入微薄的父母造成了巨大的负担。张火丁说，上学期间，她也怀疑过自己是否足够优秀，能否在完成学业后找到工作，因为在京剧团谋得一份差事的竞争颇为激烈。
Ms. Zhang said she considered quitting, but worked diligently, even on Sundays, when others were resting. After graduating, in 1989, she was invited to join a Peking Opera military troupe, based in Beijing, and began training with one of the opera world’s most accomplished performers, Zhao Rongchen, who taught her the so-called Cheng School style, one of the four major styles that emerged in the early 20th century.
张火丁说她考虑过退学，但最后还是勤奋学习，哪怕是在其他人都在休息的星期天。1989年毕业后，她受邀加入北京的一个部队京剧团，并开始接受堪称戏曲界最有成就的演员之一赵荣琛的训练。赵荣琛教授了她“程派艺术”，也就是20世纪初兴起的京剧四大流派之一。
Stardom came some years later, in the mid-1990s, while she was performing with the country’s leading Peking Opera troupe. The opera world began raving about her after she created a special Peking Opera show at the famed People’s Art Theater in Beijing.
她是过了些年后才成名的。当时是90年代中期，她在中国顶尖的京剧团演出。她在著名的北京人民艺术剧院开创了一种独特的京剧表演，京剧界开始对她大加赞扬。
“She’s always been very diligent,” said Li Jinping, who has worked with Ms. Zhang for more than 20 years and serves as one of the artistic directors for the New York performances. “She’s always working and devotes more time than any other performer. And she’s developed her own unique characteristics, particularly her singing.”
“她一向很勤奋，”和张火丁共事20多年的李金平说。他同时也是此次纽约演出的艺术指导之一。“她总是在工作，付出的时间比其他任何演员都多。她还形成了自己独一无二的特点，尤其是在唱腔方面。”
Ms. Zhang retains her fame in China despite her aversion to publicity; she rarely grants interviews and often avoids public appearances outside of her work on the stage. She lives quietly in Beijing with her husband, a businessman, and 3-year-old daughter.
尽管不喜欢宣传，但张火丁在中国依然很有名。她甚少接受采访，往往会避免除登台之外的公开露面。她的丈夫是一名商人，两人育有一个3岁的女儿。他们一家三口在北京过着低调的生活。
She dedicates most of her energy, she says, to her craft and teaching at the leading school for traditional Chinese opera, the National Academy of Chinese Theatre Arts, in Beijing.
她说自己把大部分精力奉献给了打磨技艺，以及在中国戏曲学院授课。位于北京的中国戏曲学院是中国顶尖的传统曲艺学府。
In New York, she will be accompanied by a group of national, first-level opera stars, including Zhang Yaoluan, who has performed for 60 years. The troupe also includes about 20 students from the National Academy, and several of her students.
在纽约，和她合作演出的皆是中国的一流戏曲名家，其中包括表演生涯已达60年的张耀鸾。演出团里还有大约20名来自中国戏曲学院的学生，其中有几个正是师从张火丁。
On consecutive nights, Ms. Zhang and the cast will perform two classics: “The Legend of the White Snake,” about a love affair between a snake and a man that is challenged by a Buddhist monk, and “The Jewelry Purse,” about a wealthy but generous young woman who falls upon hard times.
张火丁和剧团成员将连续两晚为观众奉上两出经典大戏：《白蛇传》和《锁麟囊》。《白蛇传》讲述的是人与蛇妖之间相爱却遭到和尚法海横加干涉的故事，《锁麟囊》则是一个关于慷慨富家女落难的故事。
What American audiences will see is a 1,000-year-old treasured art form, morality tales dressed up in elaborate costumes, fight scenes, acrobatics and stylized movement and gestures that appear to be pantomime. The movements are suggestive and symbolic — every body gesture seemingly codified and choreographed, and set to percussion beats, gongs and high-pitched strings. The elaborate costumes can signal someone is a warrior, a scholar-official or a clown.
美国观众将看到一种有着千年传承的珍贵艺术形式、精美戏服装点的道德故事、武打场景、繁复的动作以及看上去仿佛哑剧的艺术化动作和手势。那些动作都各具意义和象征性，与鼓点、锣声和高亢的弦乐呼应。每一个姿势似乎都经过严格规定与设计。精美的戏装可以表明所饰演的角色是武士、文官还是丑角。
The popularity of Peking Opera is declining, and future opera stars may never be as popular as Ms. Zhang. Li Shiqiang, the author of several books on Chinese opera, says that while traditional operas won’t disappear entirely, partly because of government support, some of the best traditions and stories are constantly being lost.
目前，京剧的受欢迎程度正在下滑，未来的戏曲明星可能永远都不会像张火丁这么受欢迎。著有多部有关中国戏曲的著作的李世强表示，虽然部分因为政府的支持，传统戏曲不会完全消失，但最优秀的一些传统和故事正在不断失传。
“Whenever an actor dies, some part of the tradition dies because of the way people were trained, and what plays they memorized,” Mr. Li said. “A lot of the emotions and gestures are not written into the scripts.”
“无论什么时候，一个演员去世，部分传统也会随之逝去，原因在于这个演员的受业方式和他们记下来的戏，”李世强说。“很多情感和手势，剧本里都没有。”
Things looked so different in 1930, when one of Peking Opera’s greatest stars, Mei Lanfang, performed in New York. There was a sense then that Chinese traditional opera could translate overseas and even influence the global art scene.
1930年，一代京剧大师梅兰芳也曾在纽约演出。当时的情况完全不同，给人的感觉是，中国传统戏曲会传到国外，甚至会影响全球艺术舞台。
At the time, the biggest stars of the Peking Opera stage were men like Mei Lanfang, who portrayed the so-called dan roles of women — articulating female gestures, hand movements and singing in odd, high-pitched tones, often with clenched teeth.
当时，京剧舞台上最大牌的明星是像梅兰芳这样的男演员。他们饰演旦角，也就是女性角色，做出女性的动作和手势，还用怪异、高亢的语调吟唱。吟唱时，他们通常都会牙关紧锁。
In an interview last week, Ms. Zhang lamented that the great age of Peking Opera may be coming to an end.
上周接受采访时，张火丁感叹京剧的黄金时代可能就要结束了。
She said young people today aren’t always willing to put up with the rigors and discipline and sacrifice needed to be a great performer. She said she wanted to inspire the next generation.
她说，现如今的年轻人并不总是愿意忍受成为一名优秀演员所需要的苛刻要求、纪律和牺牲。她说，希望自己能激励下一代人。
“Long before, they’d pour water on the ground on a freezing day and create a sheet of ice and force students to practice movements on the slippery ice,” she said. “If you could move gracefully on the ice you would do well on stage. Now, if there weren’t carpets in the studios, everyone would just fall down. This makes it a lot harder to have grandmasters.”
“早年间，他们会在大冷天把水泼到地上，让地上结一层冰，逼学生在光滑的冰面上练习动作，”她说。“如果能优雅地在冰上行动，上台也会表现得很好。现在，如果室内没有地毯，所有人都会摔倒。这样就更难出大师了。”