DONETSK, Ukraine — After Ukraine’s new president, Petro O. Poroshenko, told reporters in Kiev on Wednesday that he might soon order a temporary, unilateral cease-fire as part of a broader 14-point peace plan, it took all of several seconds for pro-Russian militants to rule it out.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——乌克兰新任总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)周三在基辅告诉记者，他可能很快会命令乌克兰方面实施暂时性的单方面停火，作为一个范围更广的14点和平计划的一部分。然而，没过几秒种，亲俄武装人员就对此予以了否定。
“I am a condemned man,” said a stick-thin fighter who, like many others here, identified himself only by an alias, Tarik, for security reasons. Sipping tea in the gloom of the lobby of Donetsk’s rebel-occupied administration building on Wednesday afternoon, he patted the magazine of the automatic rifle slung across his chest.
“我反正是要死的人，”一名骨瘦如柴的武装人员说。与这里的许多人一样，出于安全原因，他只肯透露自己的化名塔里克(Tarik)。周三下午，他在反对派占领的顿涅茨克行政大楼阴郁的大厅里抿着茶，拍了拍胸前悬挂的自动步枪的弹夹。
Any cease-fire would certainly be violated by the Ukrainian Army, he said, adding that he and other pro-Russian separatists would be arrested the minute the government had the opportunity.
他说，不论是什么停火协议，乌克兰军队肯定都会违反。他还认为，一旦政府抓住机会，他与其他亲俄分离主义者都会被捕。
“What peace can they possibly offer me?” he asked. “If they want peace, then they can leave.”
“他们能提供什么和平？”他问道。“如果他们想要和平，离开就行了。”
Tarik and a dozen other rank-and-file fighters here reacted to Mr. Poroshenko’s proposal with a dark, belligerent skepticism. Most rejected the idea of disarming until a patchwork of amorphous conditions were met, suggesting that a truce would be awfully difficult to achieve.
塔里克和这里的其他十多名普通武装人员都深刻怀疑波罗申科的提议，并对此持挑衅态度。大多数人都反对解除武装的想法，除非当局能满足一系列不确定的条件。这说明，达成休战协议将会十分艰难。
Some demanded that the Ukrainian military leave the region, called Donbass, while others wanted a war tribunal for Ukraine’s newly elected leaders. Most said they wanted the restoration of “stability,” the precise definition of which remained elusive.
有些人要求乌克兰军队离开顿巴斯地区，还有些人则希望对乌克兰新当选的领导人进行战争审判。大多数人都表示，他们希望能恢复“稳定”，但其中的确切含义却捉摸不定。
“Maybe there was a way back when this all just started, when the people were out here with the flags to make their point, and before the killing,” said Denis, a separatist fighter from Makeyevka, a depressed industrial town outside of Donetsk, when asked how and when the conflict might be resolved.
当被问到这场冲突的解决方式和解决时间时，分离主义武装人员丹尼斯(Denis)说，“或许事情刚开始的时候还有回头路可走。那时候，人们拿着旗子走出来表达自己的想法；杀戮也还没有开始。”他来自马克耶夫卡，顿涅茨克郊外的一个萧条的工业城镇。
Another fighter jumped in helpfully. “The Third World War,” he said to nods of assent.
另一名武装人员也跳出来帮腔。“第三次世界大战，”他说。众人纷纷点头表示同意。
None said he was ready to lay down his arms.
没人表示准备放下武器。
The responses seemed to afford little hope that, as Mr. Poroshenko urged, a cease-fire “should receive support from all participants in the events in Donbass.” Toward that end, the president’s office announced that Mr. Poroshenko would meet on Thursday with what his office called the “legitimate” leaders from the east, including mayors and business representatives.
从这些回应来看，似乎不太可能实现波罗申科所敦促的“得到顿巴斯各方支持”的停火。为了促成停火，乌克兰总统办公室宣布，波罗申科将于周四与东部的“合法”领导人举行会晤，其中包括多名市长和商业代表。
The Russian government has called repeatedly for Ukraine to stop its military crackdown on the separatists but has also insisted that it does not control, or speak for, the separatists.
俄罗斯政府则反复呼吁乌克兰停止动用武力镇压分离主义者，但同时也坚持表示，俄罗斯没有控制分离主义者，或者是在代表他们说话。
But rebel leaders, some of whom were in Moscow on Wednesday, quickly dismissed Mr. Poroshenko’s proposal. Denis Pushilin, one of the leaders of the political wing of the Donetsk People’s Republic, said in television appearances in Moscow that he thought it was “pointless,” suggesting that it was the latest trick by Kiev to subdue the fighters.
不过，反对派领导人立即表示，拒绝考虑波罗申科的提议，周三，其中一些领导人身处莫斯科。顿涅茨克人民共和国(Donetsk People's Republic)的政治领袖之一丹尼斯·普希林(Denis Pushilin)在莫斯科参与电视节目时表示这个提议“毫无意义”，并称这是基辅控制作战人员的最新把戏。
Another rebel commander, Igor Strelkov, told Komsomolskaya Pravda, a Russian newspaper that regularly carries his statements, that Ukraine had already violated the cease-fire, though officially it had not yet even been declared.
另一名反对派武装的指挥官伊戈尔·斯特雷科夫(Igor Strelkov)则告诉俄罗斯《共青团真理报》(Komsomolskaya Pravda)，乌克兰已经违反了停火协议，尽管尚未正式宣布停火。该报经常引用他的声明。
In Kiev, Mr. Poroshenko told reporters that he planned to announce the cease-fire as part of a wider peace plan to end the more than two months of fighting in eastern Ukraine, where, the United Nations reported on Wednesday, at least 356 people are known to have died.
在基辅，波罗申科告诉记者，他计划宣布停火，以此作为更大范围的和平计划的一部分。和平计划的目的是终结乌克兰东部地区长达两个多月的战斗。周三，联合国报告，该地区至少已有356人确认死亡。
Mr. Poroshenko’s discussion of the peace plan followed a phone call late Tuesday with President Validmir V. Putin of Russia, in which both sides said the cease-fire was a main topic.
波罗申科提出这项和平计划是在与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)通完电话后。双方均表示，停火事宜是两人周二晚间通电话时的一个主要话题。
Other elements of Mr. Poroshenko’s plan include sealing the border with Russia and amending the Ukrainian Constitution to allow for a “decentralization” plan that will give more authority to local governments.
波罗申科提出的计划还包括，封锁乌俄边境、修改乌克兰宪法，以及允许“分权”计划，以赋予地方政府更多权力。
The initial step, however, would be a halt to the Ukrainian military’s so-called antiterrorist operation against the pro-Russian militias, whose ranks include some Russian citizens who crossed the border to join the fight. Senior Russian officials have long insisted that any peace effort begin with such a step.
然而，第一步将会是终止乌克兰军队打击亲俄民兵组织的所谓的反恐行动。民兵组织成员包括一些跨越边境加入战斗的俄罗斯公民。俄罗斯高级官员一直坚称，任何和平努力都应从此类举措开始。
Also on Wednesday, Mr. Poroshenko nominated Ukraine’s ambassador to Germany, Pavlo Klimkin, as foreign minister, and asked Parliament to confirm him. Mr. Klimkin, a former deputy foreign minister, had an important role in negotiating the political and economic accords with the European Union that Viktor F. Yanukovych, then the president, refused to sign last November after long promising to do so, setting off months of civil unrest. Mr. Poroshenko has vowed to complete those agreements in the coming weeks.
同样在周三，波罗申科还提名乌克兰驻德国大使帕夫洛·克利姆金(Pavlo Klimkin)担任外交部长，并请求议会予以批准。克利姆金曾担任外交部副部长，在与欧盟的政治经济协议谈判中扮演过重要角色。去年11月，时任总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)拒绝按照之前的承诺签署协议，引发了几个月来的国内动乱。波罗申科发誓，要在未来几周达成协议。