EVERY summer for many years now, my family has kept to our ritual. All 20 of us — my siblings, my dad, our better halves, my nieces and nephews — find a beach house big enough to fit the whole unruly clan. We journey to it from our different states and time zones. We tensely divvy up the bedrooms, trying to remember who fared poorly or well on the previous trip. And we fling ourselves at one another for seven days and seven nights.
多年来， 我家每逢夏季都有一项例行活动。全家族二十个人，包括我的兄弟姐妹、我爸爸、我们的另一半与孩子，会一起找一栋容得下这乱糟糟一家子的海滨度假小屋，然后从各自所在的天涯海角往那里进发。我们紧张兮兮地分配房间，尽可能回想上次假期中每个人的表现如何。然后一伙人捉对厮杀，共度七天七夜。
That’s right: a solid week. It’s that part of the ritual that mystifies many of my friends, who endorse family closeness but think that there can be entirely too much of it. Wouldn’t a long weekend suffice? And wouldn’t it ward off a few spats and simplify the planning?
没错，就是整整一周。这也是这个家族惯例让许多朋友感到惊讶之处。他们当然同意亲情深似海，不过这段时间也未免太久了。一个周末长假不够吗？这样不就能省下不少的争执，安排起来也简单许多？
The answer to the second question is yes, but to the first, an emphatic no.
先回答第二个问题：的确是这样。至于第一个问题：不，肯定不够。
I used to think that shorter would be better, and in the past, I arrived for these beach vacations a day late or fled two days early, telling myself that I had to when in truth I also wanted to — because I crave my space and my quiet, and because I weary of marinating in sunscreen and discovering sand in strange places. But in recent years, I’ve showed up at the start and stayed for the duration, and I’ve noticed a difference.
我曾经也以为这段假期能短些更好，我也曾迟到早退个一两天，我对自己说那是迫不得已，实际上是我想那样——因为我实在需要属于自己的僻静角落，而不是全身泡在防晒乳液里，老是在莫名其妙的地方发现沙子。不过，最近几年我总是全程参与这些假期，并且发现跟以前是有分别的。
With a more expansive stretch, there’s a better chance that I’ll be around at the precise, random moment when one of my nephews drops his guard and solicits my advice about something private. Or when one of my nieces will need someone other than her parents to tell her that she’s smart and beautiful. Or when one of my siblings will flash back on an incident from our childhood that makes us laugh uncontrollably, and suddenly the cozy, happy chain of our love is cinched that much tighter.
在一段相对漫长的时间里，我更有机会遇到那些恰好的、随机的瞬间，某个外甥会放松警惕，向我征求一些私人的建议。或者是某个侄女需要有爸妈以外的人来告诉她，她有多么聪明和美丽。又或许是我的弟兄姐妹突然想起一件童年往事，让我们笑不可抑。于是突然之间，那股让人感到温馨又幸福的关爱之情，又把我们连结得更紧密了。
There’s simply no real substitute for physical presence.
这种同处一室的真切存在，是无可替代的。
We delude ourselves when we say otherwise, when we invoke and venerate “quality time,” a shopworn phrase with a debatable promise: that we can plan instances of extraordinary candor, plot episodes of exquisite tenderness, engineer intimacy in an appointed hour.
有时我们并不这么认为，我们祈求、尊崇“优质时光”(quality time)，但那是在自欺欺人。作为一个被滥用的词，“优质时光”究竟有没有那么神奇，是值得怀疑的：我们真的能在指定的一个小时里，有意识地去实现极致的坦诚、柔情和亲密吗？
We can try. We can cordon off one meal each day or two afternoons each week and weed them of distractions. We can choose a setting that encourages relaxation and uplift. We can fill it with totems and frippery — a balloon for a child, sparkling wine for a spouse — that signal celebration and create a sense of the sacred.
不妨一试。我们可以每天安排一餐，或是每周的两个下午，排除一切干扰，专注地对待彼此。我们可以选择一个让人开怀放松的场合。用各种图腾和矫饰去充实它——给孩子来个气球，给另一半带一瓶起泡酒——从而表示这是一场欢庆，营造一种庄重感。
And there’s no doubt that the degree of attentiveness that we bring to an occasion ennobles or demeans it. Better to spend 15 focused, responsive minutes than 30 utterly distracted ones.
我们投入的程度，确实会决定这些时刻是意义非凡还是不值一顾。专注而积极互动的十五分钟，比心不在焉的半小时要强。
But people tend not to operate on cue. At least our moods and emotions don’t. We reach out for help at odd points; we bloom at unpredictable ones. The surest way to see the brightest colors, or the darkest ones, is to be watching and waiting and ready for them.
然而人往往不是一声令下就能进入状态的。至少我们的心绪与情感是如此。我们会在莫名其妙的时刻向人求援；会不期然地意兴大发。想要见证生命中最灿烂或最灰暗的瞬间，最保险的就是留神观察、耐心等候，随时做好准备。
That’s reflected in a development that Claire Cain Miller and David Streitfeld wrote about in The Times last week. They noted that “a workplace culture that urges new mothers and fathers to hurry back to their cubicles is beginning to shift,” and they cited “more family-friendly policies” at Microsoft and Netflix, which have extended the leave that parents can take.
上周，克莱尔·凯恩·米勒(Claire Cain Miller)和戴维·斯特雷菲尔德(David Streitfeld)在《纽约时报》上撰写的一篇文章中谈到的新现象，就反映了这一点。他们提到，“催促初为父母者尽快返回岗位的职场文化正在发生变化”，并以微软(Microsoft)和Netflix等公司为例，这些公司均推行了“对家庭更友好的政策”，延长了父母享有的假期。
How many parents will step off the fast track and avail themselves of this remains to be seen. But those who do will be deciding that the quantity of time with their brood matters as much as the intensity of it.
有多少父母能脱离紧锣密鼓的工作，让自己享受假期仍然不得而知。但这样做的人，实际上是认为他们在育儿事务上花费的时间的总量，与这些时间的强度同样重要。
They’ll be lucky: Many people aren’t privileged enough to exercise such discretion. My family is lucky, too. We have the means to get away.
他们是幸运的，很多人并没有做出这种选择的特权。我的家人也是幸运的，我们有远行的能力。
But we’re also dedicated to it, and we’ve determined that Thanksgiving Day isn’t ample, that Christmas Eve passes too quickly, and that if each of us really means to be central in the others’ lives, we must make an investment, the biggest components of which are minutes, hours, days. As soon as our beach week this summer was done, we huddled over our calendars and traded scores of emails to figure out which week next summer we could all set aside. It wasn’t easy. But it was essential.
但另一方面，我们也有这样做的决心，我们认定了感恩节是不够的，圣诞夜也过得太快，如果我们每个人都真的希望自己在别人的生活中有重要意义，那么就要做出投资，而那些分钟、那些小时、那些日子是其中最大的投入。今年夏天在海边度过的一周结束后，我们凑在一起商量日程，又交换了几十封电子邮件，来确定明年夏天我们所有人都可以腾出哪个星期。这可不容易，但这很重要。
Couples move in together not just because it’s economically prudent. They understand, consciously or instinctively, that sustained proximity is the best route to the soul of someone; that unscripted gestures at unexpected junctures yield sweeter rewards than scripted ones on date night; that the “I love you” that counts most isn’t whispered with great ceremony on a hilltop in Tuscany. No, it slips out casually, spontaneously, in the produce section or over the dishes, amid the drudgery and detritus of their routines. That’s also when the truest confessions are made, when hurt is at its rawest and tenderness at its purest.
情侣住在一起，不仅是因为那在经济上是谨慎的做法。而是因为他们有意识或本能地理解，持续的亲近是抵达灵魂的最佳途径；在出人意料的关头，随性表露的姿态可以产生的回馈，远远超出约会当晚按剧本做出的举动；最动人的表白并不是在托斯卡纳山顶举行的盛大仪式上念出的。不，这样的表白一定是不经意间脱口而出，要么在农产品货架前、要么面对着一堆碗碟、要么是正在打理例行家务和杂物的时候。此时的告白也最为真切，伤害想必最为痛苦，但柔情也最为真挚。
I know how my 80-year-old father feels about dying, religion and God not because I scheduled a discrete encounter to discuss all of that with him. I know because I happened to be in the passenger seat of his car when such thoughts were on his mind and when, for whatever unforeseeable reason, he felt comfortable articulating them.
我知道了80岁的父亲对死亡、宗教和上帝的感受，并不是因为我单独安排了一次会面，来和他讨论这些问题。我之所以知道，是因为我坐在他车里的副驾驶座上，他的头脑里刚好产生了这些念头，出于某种无法预见的理由，他发觉自己可以放心地说出这些想法。
And I know what he appreciates and regrets most about his past because I was not only punctual for this summer’s vacation, but also traveled there with him, to fatten our visit, and he was uncharacteristically ruminative on that flight.
我能知道他对自己的过去有哪些欣喜又有哪些遗憾，是因为我不仅准时参加了今年夏天的度假，而且是和他一起去的，这让我们相聚的时间更长。此外，他在旅途中也异乎寻常地思绪良多。
It was over lunch at the beach house one day that my oldest nephew spoke with unusual candor, and at unusual length, about his expectations for college, his experiences in high school — stuff that I’d grilled him about previously, never harvesting the generous answers that he volunteered during that particular meal.
一天，在海边的房子吃午饭时，我年龄最大的侄儿用出人意料的坦诚，花了异乎寻常的篇幅，讲了自己对大学的期待，以及在高中的经历。我曾经就这些话题反复追问过他，但得到的答案都远没有那次午餐时他主动讲出的回答那么慷慨。