KIEV, Ukraine — With their country caught in a fierce tug-of-war between Russia and the West over a new security order, Ukrainians elected Petro O. Poroshenko as president on Sunday, turning to a pro-European billionaire to lead them out of six months of wrenching turmoil, including a continuing separatist insurrection in the east.
乌克兰基辅——周日，在祖国陷于俄罗斯和西方因新安全秩序而爆发的激烈拉锯战之际，乌克兰民众将佩德罗·波罗申科(Petro Porochenko)选为本国总统，期望这位亲欧洲的亿万富翁领导他们摆脱持续六个月的痛苦动荡，终结东部地区仍在持续的分离主义动乱。
The special election was called by Parliament to replace Viktor F. Yanukovych, who fled Kiev on Feb. 21 after a failed but bloody attempt to suppress a civic uprising, and whose toppling as president set off Russia’s invasion and annexation of Crimea.
乌克兰议会召集了此次特别的选举，旨在找人取代前总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)，后者曾尝试血腥镇压民变，失败后于今年2月21日逃离了基辅。他被推翻下台一事导致俄罗斯入侵并吞并了乌克兰的克里米亚。
While the election allows Ukraine to open a new chapter in its history, and even President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has indicated in recent days that he would accept the result, Mr. Poroshenko now faces the excruciatingly difficult task of trying to calm and reunite a country that has been on the edge of financial collapse, and on the verge of tilting into civil war. Among his chief tasks will be to ease tensions with Russia.
此次选举将为乌克兰掀开新的历史篇章，就连俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)也已于近日暗示，他会接受选举结果，尽管如此，波罗申科现在依然面临极为棘手的任务，必须设法让处于经济崩溃和内战边缘的乌克兰恢复平静，重新统一起来。他的首要任务之一是缓和与俄罗斯的紧张关系。
“Now we have a state of war,” he said as he arrived at a polling station in Kiev to vote on Sunday. “We need to establish peace.”
“现在我们处于战争状态。”周日，他在抵达基辅一处投票站进行投票时说。“我们需要构建和平。”
Early exit poll results showed Mr. Poroshenko — a confections tycoon known as the Chocolate King, and a longtime veteran of Ukrainian politics — with a wide lead over his strongest rival, the former prime minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko. He appeared poised to easily clear the simple-majority threshold needed to avoid a potentially divisive runoff.
早前的选后民调结果显示，波罗申科远远领先于他最强大的对手、前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)，波罗申科是号称“巧克力国王”(Chocolate King)的糖果大亨，也是长期混迹于乌克兰政坛的老手。他似乎有能力轻易跨越得票需达简单多数的门槛，由此避免可能引发分歧的决胜选举。
Mr. Poroshenko declared victory at an evening news conference at an arts center, where he appeared with the former champion boxer Vitali Klitschko, a leader of the street protests that deposed Mr. Yanukovych. Mr. Klitschko was elected on Sunday as mayor of Kiev, the capital. The arts complex was decked out for a victory party, including cases of Spanish and Italian wine.
波罗申科在一个艺术中心举行了晚间新闻发布会，宣布自己获胜。他和前拳击冠军维塔利·克里奇科(Vitali Klitschko)一道出席了发布会，后者曾领导推翻亚努科维奇的街头抗议活动。克里奇科在周日的选举中当选为乌克兰首都基辅的市长。该艺术中心经过了精心装饰，用来举办庆功宴，宴席饮品包括一箱箱的西班牙和意大利红酒。
“These were the hardest periods in Ukraine’s history, and these elections determine the future of our country,” Mr. Poroshenko said. “I would like to thank the Ukrainian people who participated and showed record support, and visited all polling stations in these hard conditions.”
波罗申科说，“这是乌克兰历史上最艰难的时期，这些选举将决定我国的未来。我想感谢那些参与投票并展现空前支持的民众、感谢他们在如此艰难的形势下前往各个投票站投票。”
Despite formidable obstacles in the east, where armed separatists largely prevented voting from taking place on Sunday, and in Crimea, which Russian now claims, election officials reported robust turnout throughout the rest of the country.
东部地区的周日投票因武装分离主义者的阻挠而基本落空，选举活动也在现已被俄罗斯占领的克里米亚遭遇了巨大障碍，尽管如此，选举官员仍然报称，其余地区的投票率都很高。
International observers also predicted that the presidential vote would receive high marks in meeting standards of fairness. But Mr. Poroshenko, 48, faces skepticism even among many of his supporters, who are wary both of his status as a billionaire businessman and because he is a veteran in Ukraine’s notoriously corrupt politics. He has been a longtime member of Parliament, where he briefly served as speaker, and was minister of trade and economic development under Mr. Yanukovych and foreign minister under former President Viktor Yushchenko. Mr. Poroshenko has vowed repeatedly to set Ukraine on a pro-European course, and he has pledged to sign the political and trade agreements with the European Union that Mr. Yanukovych abandoned, setting off the uprising last fall.
国际观察人士还预测，此次总统选举将在符合公平标准方面获得高分。不过，48岁的波罗申科面临着人们的质疑，就连他的许多支持者也是如此，这些人对他怀有戒心，既是因为他亿万富商的身份，也因为他是乌克兰声名狼藉的腐败政坛的一名老手。他长期担任乌克兰议会的议员，曾短暂地担任议长，还曾在亚努科维奇手下担任贸易和经济发展部长，在前总统维克多·A·尤先科(Viktor A.Yushchenko)手下担任外交部长。波罗申科曾一再誓称要让乌克兰走上亲欧路线，并已承诺与欧盟签署政治和贸易协议，去年秋天，亚努科维奇正是因放弃该协议而引发民变。
But Mr. Poroshenko has deep business interests in Russia and has previously served in pro-Russian governments, creating some optimism in Moscow that negotiations are possible. The Kremlin has already seized a factory and warehouse in Lepetsk, Russia, belonging to Mr. Poroshenko’s company, Roshen Chocolate. Last year, in the run-up to tensions over the European Union agreements, Russia also barred imports of his chocolate, citing vague health concerns.
然而，波罗申科在俄罗斯拥有极大的商业利益，之前还曾在亲俄政府任职，使得莫斯科乐观地认为，谈判是可能的。克里姆林宫已经控制了波罗申科的如胜巧克力公司(Roshen Chocolate)位于俄罗斯利佩茨克的工厂和仓库。去年，在欧盟协议引发紧张局势之前，俄罗斯还曾以模糊的卫生问题为由禁止进口波罗申科公司生产的巧克力。
Ukraine will be under continuing pressure from Russia, which is demanding billions of dollars for unpaid natural-gas bills, and has made clear that it could cripple the Ukrainian economy at any moment with trade sanctions. There is also pressure from the International Monetary Fund, which has laid out strict requirements, including austerity measures, in exchange for $27 billion in emergency credit that saved the country from default.
乌克兰将继续承受来自俄罗斯的压力，或者要求乌克兰支付积欠的数十亿美元天然气账单，并已明确表示，俄罗斯可能会随时实施贸易制裁，重创乌克兰的经济。此外还有来自国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的压力，该组织提出了包括紧缩措施在内的严格要求，乌克兰必须满足这些要求，才可以获得避免违约所需的270亿美元紧急信贷。
While Mr. Poroshenko steered clear of any formal role in the interim government that has run the country since Feb. 28, his growing inevitability as the next head of state has, in recent weeks, helped frame settlement talks that address some concerns in the eastern regions with a so-called decentralization plan that will increase the authority of local governments. He has also expressed a willingness to support civic activists pushing for broad government reforms.
波罗申科未曾在自2月28日以来掌控国家的临时政府担任任何正式职务，但最近几周，他成为乌克兰的下一任国家元首的趋势日益明确，这在一定程度上设定了协议谈判的框架，这些谈判旨在通过所谓的分权计划增加地方政府的权力，由此解决东部地区的一些问题。他还表达了支持民间活动人士推动政府广泛改革的意愿。
In Kiev, there were long lines at polling stations, and voters generally expressed resolve that the country needed to open a new chapter, with a new leader, even if many expressed some disappointment in the choices they were offered.
基辅的各个投票站排起了长队，选民们普遍表示，他们确信乌克兰需在新领导人的领导下开启新的篇章，尽管如此，很多人也对政府提供的选择表达了失望。
“We are stuck in everything,” said Tatyana Zhukova, a retired engineer, who said she had voted for Mr. Poroshenko at the National Linguistic University in Kiev. “I don’t see new leaders.”
“我们陷入了全方位的困境，”退休工程师塔季扬娜·朱可娃(Tatyana Zhukova)说。“我没看到适合担任新领袖的人。”朱可娃称自己在基辅国立语言大学(National Linguistic University)投了票，选的是波罗申科。
Sunday’s vote has had the broad support of leaders in Europe and the United States, who view it as a crucial step to installing a pro-Western government.
周日的投票活动获得了欧洲及美国领导人的广泛支持，他们认为这是建立亲西方政府的关键一步。
In St. Petersburg, Mr. Putin, too, expressed support on Saturday. “We will respect any choice made by the Ukrainian people,” he said at a round-table interview with international news agencies.
周六，普京在圣彼得堡也表达了支持态度。在接受国际新闻机构圆桌采访时，普京表示，“我们会尊重乌克兰人民的任何选择。”
During the session, Mr. Putin proposed another Ukrainian billionaire, Viktor Medvedchuk, who is known as an ardent supporter of Russia, to serve as a mediator between Kiev and pro-Russian separatists. Although the proposal was self-serving — Mr. Putin is said to be godfather to Mr. Medvedchuk’s daughter — it was still a sign that talks, rather than further military action, are on the horizon.
采访期间，普京提议由乌克兰亿万富翁维克多·梅德韦德丘克(Viktor Medvedchuk)担任基辅与亲俄分裂分子之间的调停人，梅德韦德丘克是公认的狂热亲俄分子。该提议固然是一个利己选择——据称，普京是梅德韦德丘克之女的教父——但也不失为一个迹象，表明即将到来的是谈判，而不是进一步的军事行动。
Violence, including sporadic mortar shelling and gunfire, continued in eastern Ukraine throughout the weekend, and separatists had made clear that they would do everything possible to disrupt the election. On Sunday, about one-fifth of the Donetsk region’s nearly 2,500 polling stations were open as of 9:30 p.m., according to local monitors.
上周末，暴力活动继续在乌克兰东部肆虐，不时出现迫击炮弹攻击和炮火。分裂主义者明确表示，他们将竭尽全力破坏选举。当地选举监督人员透露，周日，顿涅茨克的近2500个投票站中有大约五分之一运行到了晚上九点半。