Are people really rational in their economic decision making? That question divides the economics profession today, and the divisions were evident at the Nobel Week events in Stockholm last month.
人们做出的经济决定真的理性吗？经济学专业人士对这个问题的答案存在分歧，上个月（指2013年12月——编注），这些分歧在斯德哥尔摩举行的诺贝尔周(Nobel Week)的活动中突显了出来。
There were related questions, too: Does it make sense to suppose that economic decisions or market prices can be modeled in the precise way that mathematical economists have traditionally favored? Or is there some emotionality in all of us that defies such modeling?
还有一些相关问题：我们能否假设，所有的经济决定和市场价格，都可以用数理经济学家传统上偏爱的精确方式建立模型？或者，我们这些否认这种模型的人，是不是都有些情绪化？
This debate isn’t merely academic. It’s fundamental, and the answers affect nearly everyone. Are speculative market booms and busts — like those that led to the recent financial crisis — examples of rational human reactions to new information, or of crazy fads and bubbles? Is it reasonable to base theories of economic behavior, which surely has a rational, calculating component, on the assumption that only that component matters?
这并不完全是学术问题。它很基本，其答案几乎会影响到每一个人。投机性行为引发的市场起落——比如最近的金融危机之前的状况——是人们对新信息的理性反应的结果，还是偶然的昙花一现，或者泡沫？经济行为中肯定有理性、权衡的元素，但如果在对经济行为进行解释时，想当然地认为只有这些元素是起作用的，这合理吗？
The three of us who shared the Nobel in economic science — Eugene F. Fama, Lars Peter Hansen and I — gave very different answers in our Nobel lectures. Mr. Fama’s speech summarized his many years of research in strong support for the notion of economic rationality. He marshaled evidence suggesting that share prices respond almost perfectly to information about stock splits and that interest rates “contain rational forecasts of inflation.”
尤金·F·法玛(Eugene F. Fama)、拉尔斯‧彼得‧汉森(Lars Peter Hansen)和我曾共同分享诺贝尔经济学奖。我们三人在演讲中给出了截然不同的答案。法玛在演讲中总结了他多年来的研究成果，他坚决支持存在理性经济决定的说法。在他列举的证据中，股价的每一次变动都是对股票分割消息的反应，而利率的变动则“包含了对通胀的合理预期”。
Mr. Hansen seemed to occupy a centrist position in the debate. In his lecture, he spoke of “distorted beliefs” that he said help account for some otherwise incongruous empirical evidence about financial markets’ behavior. He emphasized mathematical models that contain elements of rationality but also take into account features like animal spirits, beliefs about rare events, and overconfidence, all of which I view as being more or less irrational.
汉森似乎持中间立场。他在演讲中说，一些“扭曲的想法”帮助解释了一些关于金融市场行为的看似不合理的事实。他强调了包含理性因素的数学模型，但也考虑了动物本能、相信会发生小概率事件和过度自信等情况，而我认为这些情况或多或少都是不理性的。
My own talk seemed to put me at one extreme, with Mr. Fama occupying the other. I said that aggregate stock price movements were mostly irrational, but I don’t believe I was as radical as some might imagine, because I still advocated a free-market system, with innovations to make it work better.
我自己的演讲似乎把我放在了和法玛相对的另一个极端。我说，股价的增长大多数是不理性的，但我不认为我像某些人想象得那样极端，因为我仍然支持自由市场，相信创新能够让它更好地运转。
I was the most willing of the three of us to incorporate ideas about nonrational or irrational behavior from other social sciences: psychology, sociology, political science and anthropology.
我们三人中，我最愿意吸收来自其他社会科学的非理性或无理性行为理论。这些社会科学包括：心理学、社会学、政治学和人类学。
I’ve been studying Nobel lectures of our predecessors, and the debate doesn’t seem new. Judging from their words, many laureates — including Herbert Simon in 1978, Maurice Allais in 1988, Daniel Kahneman in 2002, Vernon Smith in 2002, Elinor Ostrom in 2009 and Oliver Williamson in 2009 — have questioned whether economic actors are rationally pursuing self-interest, as traditional economic theory assumes.
我研究了前人的诺贝尔奖演说，这个话题并不是头一次出现。从他们的措辞来看，许多诺奖得主——包括1978年获奖的司马贺(Herbert Simon)，1988年获奖的莫里斯·阿莱(Maurice Allais)，2002年获奖的丹尼尔·卡内曼(Daniel Kahneman)和弗农·史密斯(Vernon Smith)，2009年获奖的埃莉诺·奥斯特罗姆(Elinor Ostrom)和2009年的奥利弗·威廉姆森(Oliver Williamson)——都怀疑经济参与者是否能够像传统经济理论所认为的那样，理性地追求自我利益。
It is hard to sum up all this discussion, however, because of a basic problem: defining “rational.” Christopher Sims, a Nobel laureate in 2011, has proposed that inattention to the facts can be rational, if you define the word broadly. Rational people know that their time is limited and realize that they cannot know everything. They must choose what they pay attention to.
可是，很难对这些讨论加以总结，这是因为一个最基本的问题：如何定义“理性”。2011年获诺贝尔奖的克里斯托弗·西姆斯(Christopher Sims)提出，如果按照广义的定义，无视事实的行为也是理性的。理性的人知道自己的时间有限，并且意识到自己不可能无所不知。他们必须决定对哪些东西予以关注。
Mr. Sims’s argument suggests that it may be rational for busy people not to balance their checkbooks if they feel they don’t have the time, though they know they will make mistakes as a result.
西姆斯的观点意味着，忙碌的人们因为觉得自己没时间，明知会犯错，但仍不去偿还欠款，这可能是理性的。
But if people feel that the work of balancing a checkbook is just too unpleasant, it’s less obvious how to classify their behavior. Some kinds of inattention are even harder to categorize. What about people who decide they don’t have the time to read the news thoughtfully enough to consider whether they will buy a house during a boom, and thus make decisions based on nothing more than hearsay and emotions?
但如果人们觉得还账这件事太烦了，这种行为属于哪类就不那么明显了。有些漫不经心的行为更加难以归类。如果一个人认定自己没有时间仔细阅读报纸，来判断是否应该在市场繁荣时买房子，于是根据道听途说和主观情绪做了决定，那该怎么算？
Such questions aren’t confined to economics. Political science has a similar conflict. People often seem emotionally involved — even irrational — when talking politics. In their 1996 book, “Pathologies of Rational Choice Theory,” Donald Green and Ian Shapiro, two political scientists, describe their colleagues’ “highly charged debates about the merits of rational choice theory.”
这类问题不仅限于经济学领域。政治学中存在同样的矛盾。在谈论政治的时候，人们看起来总是带着某种情绪——甚至是非理性的。在1996年合著的《理性选择理论的病理》(Pathologies of Rational Choice Theory)一书中，政治学家唐纳德·格林(Donald Green)和伊恩·夏皮罗(Ian Shapiro)描述了同事“对理性选择理论的优点的激烈辩论”。
Other sciences are approaching such questions in novel ways. Brain-imaging techniques are improving our understanding of the cognitive neuroscience of attention, revealing the physical structures that allow us to process information as well as we do, and giving material form to some of the abstract notions in Mr. Sims’s theory of rational inattention. This research, identifying physical structures that underlie our thinking, has a welcome concreteness.
另外的一些学科正在以全新的方式探索这些问题。大脑成像技术正在提升认知神经学对注意力的理解，展示那些让我们能够像现在这样处理信息的生理结构，让西姆斯理性无视理论的一些抽象概念有了物质形态。这项研究找到了我们思维方式的物理结构，有着让人喜爱的具象性。
Neuroscience is also showing important links between people’s emotions and behavior they consider rational. In his 1994 book “Descartes’ Error,” the neuroscientist Antonio Damasio considered the admonition of the philosopher Descartes to keep emotions away from our rational thinking. Mr. Damasio examined research finding that emotional pathways in the brain are interlinked with our calculating, ostensibly rational counterparts.
神经科学也展示出人类情绪与人类自认为理性的行为之间所存在的重要关联。在1994年出版的《笛卡尔的错误》(Descartes' Error)一书中，神经学家安东尼奥·达马西奥(Antonio Damasio)提到了哲学家笛卡尔的忠告，那就是在理性思考中排除一切情绪干扰。达马西奥调查了研究结果，大脑中的情绪通路与负责理性分析的通路是彼此相连的。
The neuroeconomist Ernst Fehr at the University of Zurich — who I hope will someday become a Nobel laureate himself — has used functional magnetic resonance imaging, or fMRIs, to study people playing games involving economics and finance. His summary of his and many colleagues’ research shows unequivocally that there are links between rational and emotional decision-making. When a game player makes an apparently calculated, rational decision to take an aggressive action against his opponent, emotional and social pathways light up as well, suggesting that the decision wasn’t entirely rational.
苏黎世大学(University of Zurich)的神经学家恩斯特·费尔(Ernst Fehr)——我希望他有一天能得诺贝尔奖——曾使用功能性磁共振成像技术研究了一些在玩经济和金融相关游戏的人。他总结了自己和许多同事的研究结果，发现理性的决策和情绪化的决策之间存在诸多关联。当一名参与者为了攻击对手而做出一个明显经过权衡、理性的决定时，与情绪和社交有关的通路也被激活，这意味着，这个决定并非完全是理性的。
The question is not simply whether people are rational. It’s about how best to describe their complex behavior. A broader notion of irrationality may someday be reconciled with one of rationality, and account for actual human behavior. My bet is that real progress will come from outside economics — from other social sciences, and even from information sciences and computer engineering.
这不光是人们是否理性的问题。它还关乎如何更好地描述人类复杂的行为。也许有一天，对非理性的更广泛定义将与理性的某个定义趋于一致，并对真正的人类行为做出解释。我打赌，真正的进展将来自经济学之外——来自其他社会科学，甚至来自信息科学和计算机工程。