In response to surging demand for larger spaces, developers in Brooklyn are going back to the classic townhouse, but building new variations with contemporary families in mind.
为满足人们对更大住房日益增长的需求，布鲁克林的开发商们正在向经典的联排别墅(townhouse)回归，同时依据当代家庭的需求，建造出新的户型变体。
From the leafy streets of Cobble Hill to the warehouse districts of Dumbo and Williamsburg, at least a dozen townhouse projects are in various stages of planning or construction. With prices as high as $4.8 million for a four-bedroom, the projects are aimed squarely at the gilded-stroller set.
从科布尔山(Cobble Hill)的林荫道，到丹波(Dumbo)和威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)的仓库区，目前至少有12个联排公寓项目，正分别处于规划或施工的不同阶段。鉴于一套四居室的价格高达480万美元（约合人民币2952万元），这些项目的目标客户直指那些家中有孩子的富有人士。
“The demand for larger spaces in Brooklyn continues to grow,” said Ari Harkov, a broker with Halstead Property, who along with his business partner, Warner Lewis, is leading sales for Wythe Lane Townhouses, an upcoming development in Williamsburg by KUB Capital. “More and more of our clients are trying to extend their tenure in the city rather than move to the suburbs for the house and the yard and the driveway,” Mr. Harkov said.
“在布鲁克林，人们对大房子的需求正在持续增长，”房地产公司Halstead Property的经纪人阿里·哈尔科夫(Ari Harkov)表示。他与合伙人华纳·路易斯(Warner Lewis)正在负责威斯路联排别墅(Wythe Lane Townhouses)项目的销售工作，这是威廉斯堡地区的一个即将展开的项目，开发商是KUB Capital。“越来越多客户在试图延长其在城市内的居住期，而不是为了房子、庭院和车道而搬到郊区去住。”哈尔科夫说。
But little is available for growing, affluent families, he said, because of a “finite number” of prewar brownstones.
然而，他说，对于正在日益壮大的富裕家庭群体而言，却没有多少房子可供他们居住，因为战前的褐石建筑“数量是有限的”。
Roger Bittenbender, a principal of KUB who is developing Wythe Lane with his business partner, Shawn Katz, noted the shortage in inventory as well. “It was this huge gaping hole in the market,” he said.
罗杰·比藤本德尔(Roger Bittenbender)是KUB的一名负责人，他正与商业伙伴肖恩·卡茨(Shawn Katz)共同开发威思路联排住宅。他也注意到了存量房不足的问题。“这是巨大的市场空洞。”他说。
The idea to build more townhouses was born partly out of their talks with friends with expanding families who had outgrown Williamsburg apartments. “They have nowhere to go,” Mr. Bittenbender said. “They don’t want to go to another part of Brooklyn. They’re definitely not going back to Manhattan.”
他们之所以萌生了建造更多联排住宅的念头，有部分原因是跟朋友交流的结果。这些朋友的家庭正在壮大，威廉斯堡的公寓已经住不下了。“他们没地方可去了，”比滕本德尔说，“他们不想去布鲁克林的其他地方。他们肯定也不愿意回曼哈顿。”
He and Mr. Katz are catering to this niche with six four-story houses at the corner of Wythe Avenue and South Fourth Street, near the Domino Sugar redevelopment project. Each house will measure nearly 17 feet wide with about 3,800 square feet of interior space that will contain four bedrooms, three baths, two half-baths and a finished basement, along with a roof deck, garage parking and a landscaped yard that opens onto a private walkway.
他和卡茨为了满足这一小众市场的需求，正在开发六栋四层住宅楼，位于威斯大道(Wythe Avenue)和南4街交汇的街角，就在多米诺糖厂(Domino Sugar)再开发项目的附近。其中每栋别墅的宽度将会接近17英尺（约合5米），室内空间大约3800平方英尺（约合353平方米），将包括四间卧室、三间浴室、两间半浴室、一间经装修的地下室，并附带屋顶平台、停车库和绿化过的庭院，从庭院可以进入一条私人步道。
Demolition of a scrap yard on the site is set to begin in a few weeks, and sales could start as early as the fall. Mr. Bittenbender said he expects the first house to be offered for “just shy of $4 million.”
建房用地上的废料场，拟在几周内开始拆除。预售工作最早在今年秋天就可启动。比藤本德尔表示，他希望第一套房子的出价能“接近400万美元（约合人民币2460万元）”。
The project was partly inspired by Dumbo Townhouses, a group of five starkly contemporary, 3,050-square-foot townhouses going up at Pearl and Water Streets in Dumbo that quickly sold out. The first four-bedroom three-bathroom houses, which have parking, a rooftop garden and a terrace off the parlor level, and prices from $4.1 million to $4.5 million, went into contract 26 days after sales began in June 2013. A fourth went for $4.8 million last October. “We sold them one at a time, raising prices each time,” said A. J. Pires of Alloy, the developer. “We are holding the last, corner townhouse.”
这一项目的灵感，部分源自丹波联排别墅(Dumbo Townhouses)项目。后者由五栋完全现代风格的、各有3050平方英尺（约合283平方米）的联排别墅组成，正在丹波的珍珠街(Pearl Street)和水街(Water Street)拔地而起。房子开售后很快就被抢购一空。第一批四室三卫户型带停车位、屋顶花园和二楼露台，价格在410万美元（约合人民币2522万元）到450万美元（约合人民币2768万元）之间，于2013年6月开售后，26天内便实现签约。到了去年10月，已有四分之一的房源售价达到480万美元（约合人民币2952万元）。“我们每次出售一栋，每次都加价，”开发商Alloy公司的A·J·皮尔斯(A. J. Pires)说，“我们还保留了最后一套转角处的联排别墅。”
The listing broker, Karen Heyman of Sotheby’s International Realty, said she still gets inquiries nearly every day. “I wish I had 20 more of them,” she said.
苏富比国际地产(Sotheby’s International Realty)的卖方经纪人凯伦·海曼(Karen Heyman)表示，她到现在都会接到客户的咨询，几乎每天都如此。“我真希望手里能再多20套那样的房子。” 她说。
For decades, new residential construction in Brooklyn was made up mostly of low-rise apartments and two- and three-family houses with a garden apartment for the buyer and a rental unit or two on top to help defray the cost of ownership. Over the last several years, glass-and-steel condominiums and rentals have sprouted along Williamsburg’s waterfront and in Downtown Brooklyn with myriad amenities. Mostly studios, one- and two-bedrooms, they are aimed at hip young singles.
几十年来，布鲁克林的多数新建住宅要么是低层公寓，要么是两户、三户共住型的房屋——这种房产为买家提供一套带花园的公寓，并在其顶层安排一、两套出租型房屋，以助补偿部分购房开支。过去几年里，在威廉斯堡的水滨地带和布鲁克林的闹市区，玻璃与钢结构的共管公寓和出租公寓如雨后春笋般涌现，各种设施应有尽有。其户型大多是单间公寓、一居室和两居室，目标客户是时髦的年轻单身族。
But as those hipsters mingled, married and multiplied, little was built to suit their needs. A recent search for four-bedrooms in Williamsburg on Streeteasy.com yielded five listings, including a 2,200-square-foot penthouse at Northside Piers for $3.495 million and a remodeled semidetached single-family house for $2.5 million.
但是，当这些时髦的单身族成双成对、结婚生子之后，能满足其需求的房子建得很少。近期在网站Streeteasy.com上搜寻威廉斯堡的四居室公寓，所能找到的挂牌信息有五个，包括位于北码头(Northside Piers)的一套面积2200平方英尺（约合204平方米）、价格349.5万美元（约合人民币2150万元）的顶层公寓，以及一套经过改建、半独立的单户式住宅，价格为250万美元（约合人民币1538万元）。
Demand for older townhouses in Brooklyn, including those in need of renovation, has been intense. A Fort Greene fixer-upper at 252 Carlton Avenue, listed by Doug Bowen of CORE for $2.595 million in March, drew 110 visitors and 22 offers in five days, before closing for $3.2 million in June.
在布鲁克林，人们对老式联排公寓（包括那些有待修缮的）的需求非常旺盛。在格林堡公园(Fort Greene)的卡尔顿大道(Carlton Avenue)252号有套待修缮的房子，今年3月由房地产营销集团CORE的道格·波文(Doug Bowen)以259.5万美元（约合人民币1596万元）的价格挂牌上市，五天内就吸引了110名看房者和22份报价。今年6月，它以320万美元（约合人民币1968万元）的价格成交。
Over all, the average price of a townhouse in northwest Brooklyn jumped 25 percent to $2.39 million in the second quarter from a year ago, according to a report by the appraiser Jonathan J. Miller for Douglas Elliman Real Estate.
根据道格拉斯·艾丽曼房地产公司(Douglas Elliman Real Estate)的估值师乔纳森·J·米勒(Jonathan J. Miller)的一份报告，总体来看，今年二季度，布鲁克林西北部的联排别墅均价与一年前相比已经飙升25%，达到了239万美元（约合人民币1470万元）。
The brand-new townhouses tend to command a premium over their prewar counterparts, and don’t require the time and hassle involved in bringing a 100-year-old building up to date. Many hint at the historic with brick exteriors or traditional stoops, but on the inside are contemporary. While the prewar houses were built with formal dining rooms, parlors and closed-off kitchens, the new ones have open floor plans, en-suite baths and high-end appliances.
新建的联排别墅一般比战前联排别墅的溢价更高，不像改建百年老建筑那样需要花时间、费口舌。很多新建筑在外观上向历史靠拢，采用砖砌外墙或传统的高台阶，但其内部设计则是现代的。战前建筑里有正式的餐厅、客厅和封闭式厨房，而新建住宅则有开放式的平面格局、套房内部浴室和高端家具设施。
The Townhouses of Cobble Hill, a mixture of four historic and five new townhouses on Congress Street in Cobble Hill, have marble bathrooms with steam showers and eat-in kitchens with Ernestomeda custom Italian cabinetry, Sub-Zero refrigerators, Wolf ranges and wine coolers. The houses, designed by the architectural firm Adjmi & Andreoli and developed by JMH Development, were sold in phases, with the first three released last summer. Only a four-bedroom five-bath house, with a $3.9 million price tag, remains unsold.
科布尔山的联排别墅项目位于科布尔山的议会街(Congress Street)，集成了四栋历史建筑和五栋新建住宅，配有带蒸汽淋浴间的大理石浴室、带用餐区的厨房，厨房里有Ernestomeda定制意大利橱柜、Sub-Zero冰箱、沃乐夫(Wolf)炉具和酒柜。这些住宅由建筑公司Adjmi & Andreoli设计，由JMH Development开发建造，分阶段销售，去年夏天发售了前三套。只有一套价格在390万美元（约合人民币2399万元）的四室五卫住宅还未卖出。
The catalyst for the recent wave of townhouse building, brokers and developers say, was the success of 23 rowhouses developed by Abby C. Hamlin, the president of Hamlin Ventures, with Francis J. Greenburger, the chairman of Time Equities, on State Street in Boerum Hill at the edge of Downtown Brooklyn. The rowhouses, designed by Rogers Marvel Architects and built in two phases, set the bar for the townhouses popping up today. But being among the first collections of speculative rowhouses since, well, the early 20th century wasn’t easy. “It was a hard sell at first,” Ms. Hamlin said, noting that banks were initially reluctant to lend.
经纪人和开发商表示，最近一波联排别墅的建设潮，是由Hamlin Ventures总裁艾比·C·哈姆林(Abby C. Hamlin)和Time Equities董事长弗朗西斯·J·格林伯格(Francis J. Greenburger)联合开发的那23栋联排别墅的成功所催化的。这23栋别墅位于波恩兰姆山(Boerum Hill)的州街(State Street)，地处布鲁克林闹市区边缘，由建筑公司Rogers Marvel Architects设计，分两期施工，为如今大量涌现的联排别墅树立了标杆。但是，回归20世纪初的户型并不是一场轻松的冒险。“一开始很难有说服力，”哈姆林称，他说银行一开始不肯放贷。
But the houses sold quickly. The first 14, completed in 2007, each sold for an average of $2.6 million; the last nine, finished a few months ago, for about $3.6 million apiece.
不过，房子卖得很快。2007年完工的前14套房子，平均每套的成交价为260万美元（约合人民币1599万元）；最后9套房子于几个月前完工，售价大约在每套360万美元（约合人民币2214万元）。
Some developers are marketing larger Brooklyn condos as “townhouse-style” apartments. A five-story building at 709 Sackett Street in Park Slope, developed by Greenstone, is being sold as two units — a $6 million, 3,200-square-foot four-bedroom triplex with a garage and multiple outdoor spaces, and a $2.995 million, 1,750-square-foot four-bedroom duplex with a deck and rooftop terrace.
还有些开发商，正在将布鲁克林内规模较大的共管公寓项目推销为“联排别墅式”公寓。公园坡(Park Slope)的萨克特街(Sackett Street)709号有一栋五层建筑，由Greenstone开发。这栋楼被分成了两个单元销售——一套是价格600万美元（约合人民币3690万元）、面积3200平方英尺（约合297平方米）的四室三层公寓，带一间车库和多处户外空间；另一套是价格299.5万美元（约合人民币1842万元）、面积1750平方英尺（约合163平方米）的四居室复式公寓，带一座露天平台和屋顶平台。
“It’s zoned as a two-unit condominium,” said Lyon Porter, a sales and leasing director of Town Residential, “but it’s really two townhouses in one.” In Brooklyn Heights, the Stahl Organization is converting the upper floors of the York & Sawyer-designed Brooklyn Trust Company Building into 12 three- to five-bedroom condos offering “townhouse-style living,” according to a publicist, with “high ceilings, oversize double-hung wood windows, generous entry foyers and architectural detail” like crown moldings in living rooms.
“它是被划分成两套住宅的共管公寓楼，”Town Residential负责销售和租赁业务的莱恩·波特(Lyon Porter)说，“但实际上就相当于将两栋联排别墅放在了同一建筑里。”在布鲁克林高地，开发商Stahl Organization正在将York & Sawyer设计的布鲁克林信托公司大厦(Brooklyn Trust Company Building)的高层部分，改建为12套三到五居室的共管公寓，打造“联排别墅式的生活”。据一名宣传人员表示，公寓带有“高天花板、超大的上下推拉木窗、宽敞的门厅和考究的建筑细节”，比如客厅的拱顶线脚。
Others are taking a more traditional tack. Aiming for buyers who want to offset their mortgage with rental income, Douglas Elliman is marketing Heights Park, a row of four townhouses in Prospect Lefferts Gardens that come with built-in investment units. Each house, by the Residential Development Group, has an owner’s triplex with a private backyard and curbside parking on the bottom, topped by two rental units — a second-floor one-bedroom apartment and a third-floor three-bedroom. The price tag for the first house, which is expected to begin showing this month, is $1.875 million.  Some buyers want “the amenities of a single-family home in terms of space and flexibility,” but can’t afford a $3 million townhouse in Park Slope, said Evan Duby of Douglas Elliman.
其他开发商走的是更加传统的路子。道格拉斯·艾丽曼将目标客户锁定为想要通过房租收入偿付抵押贷款的买家，该公司正在销售高地公园(Heights Park)项目，是位于展望莱弗茨花园(Prospect Lefferts Gardens) 的四座联排别墅，内带投资单元。开发商是住宅开发集团(Residential Development Group)。每套住宅都为房主配备了三层住宅，带有私人后院，楼底设有街边停车场，而楼顶还有两套出租单元，分别是位于二楼的一居室公寓和三楼的三居室。首套住宅拟将于本月（8月）公开展示，价位在187.5万美元（约合人民币1153万元）。道格拉斯·艾丽曼的伊万·达比(Evan Duby)说，有些买家想要“在空间和灵活性上享有单户家庭住宅的设施，”但在公园坡又买不起300万美元（约合人民币1845万元）的联排别墅。