The set, inside the cavernous studio on Chelsea Piers in Manhattan, is meant to represent the bunkerlike headquarters of a polished Chinese techno-gangster who has a relationship with the criminal mastermind Raymond Reddington, now — for murky reasons unknown to both the gangster and the audience — aligned with the F.B.I.
片场位于曼哈顿切尔西码头一个洞穴般的演播室里，这里模拟的是一个狡猾的中国高科技流氓的总部地堡，此人与犯罪首脑雷蒙德·雷丁顿(Raymond Reddington)之间保持着联系。雷丁顿目前在与FBI联手——那个中国的坏蛋和电视机前的观众，都不知道他这么做的原因。
Reddington, the main character in the coming and much-anticipated new NBC drama “The Blacklist,” is, at this moment, wearing a light-green short-sleeved shirt and brown walking shorts. He looks more like a U.P.S. delivery man than the scourge of American law enforcement. Then again, it’s only rehearsal, and James Spader has his Reddington intensity dialed down to zero, in favor of his normal, real-life mode of free-associating bonhomie.
雷丁顿是备受期待的NBC新剧《黑名单》(The Blacklist)的主角。此刻，他穿着淡绿色的短袖衬衣和棕色的短裤，看起来更像UPS的快递员，而非令美国执法部门头疼的人物。现在只是排戏，詹姆斯·斯派德(James Spader)把身上的雷丁顿气质降到最低点，表现出现实生活中正常的、和蔼可亲的一面。
That is the quality that comes through in his enthusiasm for this new starring role: “The possibilities of this show are limitless,” he says, excitement pitched in his voice. “Anybody can be on the blacklist. Ha, ha, ha! Anybody!”
这些性情，从他对这个新角色的热情中可见一斑：“这部电视剧有着无尽的可能性。”他的兴奋溢于言表。“任何人都可能被列入黑名单。哈哈哈！任何人！”
No new network drama enters the season with higher expectations — or more pressure — than “The Blacklist.” The show has won wide praise from critics and was the most talked about show during the last development season in Hollywood. And, to be blunt, NBC needs a hit. The network has slotted it in the best spot on its schedule, Mondays at 10 p.m., after its top-rated show, “The Voice.” A lot is riding on this series and Mr. Spader’s eye-catching performance.
在本季的新剧中，《黑名单》受到的期待和压力是最大的。该剧受到了评论家的交口称赞，在好莱坞上一个筹划季中，它是被谈论最多的剧。另外，坦白地说，NBC也的确需要一部有着上佳收视率的戏。他们把最佳时段给了它——星期一晚上10点，在该台最受欢迎的真人秀《美国之声》(The Voice)之后播出。这部电视剧以及斯派德抢眼的表演被寄予厚望。
A few minutes after rehearsal, in a gray herringbone suit and vest, hair skimmed close to his scalp, Mr. Spader is in full Reddington mode, jousting with his Chinese nemesis with weary disdain, delivering lines of complicated dialogue with precision — through 12 long takes.
彩排几分钟后，斯派德穿着灰色人字纹西服和马甲亮相，头发紧贴头皮，完全是雷丁顿的派头；他带着厌倦和藐视和他的中国对手辩论，长串复杂的对白一气呵成——用了12个长镜头。
One reason for all the repetition: Mr. Spader’s new co-star, Megan Boone, who plays Reddington’s foil in the series, a young F.B.I. agent named Liz Keen, is not as sure-footed in the scene. Of course, Ms. Boone, perhaps best known for the short-lived “Law & Order: Los Angeles,” hasn’t been acting in movies, television and theater for 35 years as Mr. Spader has.
重复这么多遍的一个原因是：这次跟斯派德演对手戏的梅根·布恩(Megan Boone)在片场的表现不像他那样稳健。她在剧中扮演雷丁顿的助手、一个年轻的FBI探员，名叫利兹·基恩(Liz Keen)。当然，布恩不像斯派德那样，参演电影、电视剧和戏剧，戏龄长达35年。也许她最知名的作品是短命的《法律与秩序：洛杉矶》(Law & Order: Los Angeles)。
“Would you say Spader is kind of an enigma?” Ms. Boone muses later in her dressing room. “He’s very unexpected. He’s very kind and considerate. But then you also don’t ever feel 100 percent comfortable.”
“你觉不觉得斯派德是个谜团？”布恩后来在更衣室里问道，“他完全不可预测，非常友好、体贴。但是你在他身边从来没有百分百地感到自在。”
All of which makes James Spader the ideal choice for Reddington, a character intended to fascinate and mystify. In the opening episode, to be shown on Monday night, Reddington gives himself up to the F.B.I., offering to help capture a host of known and unknown supercriminals — on just one condition: that he work with Liz Keen, a woman he seemingly has had no prior connection to. Even Mr. Spader doesn’t want to know too much about the reasons for all that.
所有这些让詹姆斯·斯派德成为雷丁顿的理想人选，这就是一个想让观众着迷而不解的角色。在周一晚上播出的第一集中，雷丁顿向FBI自首，主动提出帮助捉拿一群知名以及不知名的超级罪犯，只有一个条件：他要和利兹·基恩合作，而他之前似乎跟这个女人没有任何联系。甚至连斯派德也不想知道太多原因。
“As long as the show continues to be enigmatic, it has its compulsion,” Mr. Spader said. “I need to know a little bit more than the viewer, but I don’t want to know more than that.”
“只要这部电视剧继续保持神秘，它就有诱惑力，”斯派德说，“我需要知道得比观众多一点，但是我不想知道更多。”
Jon Bokenkamp, one of the executive producers of “The Blacklist,” said that in conversations with another producer, John Fox, they pictured a Keyser Soze, the mysterious villain of the film “The Usual Suspects.” Mr. Bokenkamp pointed out that Reddington tells the F.B.I.: “Don’t trust me. Everything about me is a lie.”
乔恩·伯肯坎普(Jon Bokenkamp)是《黑名单》的其中一个执行制作人。他说在跟另一位制作人约翰·福克斯(John Fox)讨论的时候，他们想到了《非常嫌疑犯》(The Usual Suspects)中的神秘反派凯撒·苏尔(Keyser Soze)。伯肯坎普指出，雷丁顿对FBI说：“不要相信我。关于我的一切都是谎言。”
The script for the “Blacklist” was, Mr. Spader says, intriguing in ways that got his attention. “It was to be shot in New York,” he noted, which he considers home. And then there was that character. There is, he said, his eyes widening with delight, “a lot of room for me to move around in there.”
斯派德说，《黑名单》的剧本很吸引人，所以引起了他的注意。他特别提到“它将在纽约拍摄”，因为他一向认为自己的家在纽约。然后就是那个角色的魅力。他说，“那个角色有很大的空间可以让我发挥。”他说这话的时候，因为欣喜而睁大了眼睛。
Mr. Spader has always been an actor who looks to expand boundaries. His career has ranged from memorable teenagers (“Pretty in Pink”) to provocative bad boys (“Sex, Lies and Videotape”) to acclaimed television lawyers. He won three Emmy Awards for playing the character Alan Shore in two series, “The Practice” and “Boston Legal.” Along the way he acquired a reputation for quirky, idiosyncratic performances of eccentric characters.
斯派德一直是一位不断拓宽戏路的演员。他的事业多姿多彩，从令人难忘的少年（《红粉佳人》[Pretty in Pink]）到挑衅的坏男孩（《性，谎言和录像带》[Sex, Lies and Videotape]），再到受到赞扬的律师。他因为在《律师本色》(The Practice)和《波士顿法律》(Boston Legal)中扮演艾伦·肖(Alan Shore)而三次获得艾美奖。多年来，他因对古怪角色的怪异、另类演绎而闻名。
Now 53 and no longer in possession of the wavy locks that were his early signature, Mr. Spader remains in demand for more mature quirky, idiosyncratic performances.
现年53岁的斯派德不再拥有早年标志性的大波浪卷发，但是他仍然渴望演绎更多成熟的怪咖、另类角色。
Coming off “Boston Legal,” Mr. Spader was at loose ends — and broke, he said, because he spent all his television money “on new households, families, new lives and all that.” Movies held little appeal, either in roles or compensation. Then David Mamet approached him about his play “Race,” slated for a Broadway run.
演完《波士顿法律》之后，斯派德失业了，他说他破产了，因为他把拍电视挣的钱全花在“新家、家人和新生活上了”。不管从角色还是从报酬的角度讲，电影对他的吸引力都不大。然后大卫·马梅特(David Mamet)来找他演戏剧《种族》(Race)，计划在百老汇上演。
Mr. Spader said yes: “Not a perfect play but a great role for me.”
斯派德同意了：“那部戏不完美，但是那个角色很适合我。”
But, “after that I was really broke,” he said. While looking for work, an offer came in unexpectedly to make a one-time appearance on “The Office.” That went so well, the NBC comedy pitched a regular role the next season.
但是，他说，“在我真的破产后”，在找工作期间，《办公室》(The Office)剧组意外地请他在该剧中亮相一次。他演得很好，因此NBC频道喜剧组在下一季中给他设了一个固定角色。
At the same time Mr. Spader got a call from Steven Spielberg offering a juicy role — the prototype lobbyist William Bilbo — in his long-delayed film “Lincoln.” But that work was eight months away. “I didn’t want to stiff him,” Mr. Spader said of Mr. Spielberg, “if all of a sudden something came along to pay the mortgage.”
与此同时，斯蒂芬·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)打来电话，请他在自己拖延已久的电影《林肯》(Lincoln)中扮演一个很有意思的角色——说客原型威廉·比尔博(William Bilbo)。不过要在八个月之后才开拍。“要是突然天上掉下钱来让我还贷款，我可不能不给他面子，”斯派德说。他指的是斯皮尔伯格。
He was saved by the producers of “The Office,” who said he could take a break from the comedy to make the movie, a prestige project he was eager to be part of. After he wrapped his season on “The Office,” a flood of new pilot scripts arrived, among which “The Blacklist” stood out.
《办公室》的制作人救了他。他们说他可以离开那部喜剧一段时间，去拍摄那部电影。要知道他特别渴望参与那部享有声望的电影。在他结束《办公室》的那一季后，一大批请他试演的新剧本纷沓而至，《黑名单》在其中脱颖而出。
It came with a somewhat odd instruction from the producers: Don’t get the impression this project borrows too heavily from a famous film.
这个剧本还附带着制作人的一个古怪指示：不要认为这部电视剧借鉴某部著名的电影太多。
That impression has been mentioned often in connection with “The Blacklist,” because a host of its essential elements are strikingly reminiscent of “Silence of the Lambs.” These would include the central dangerous criminal, captured, shackled and put in a boxlike cage, who will speak only with one young female F.B.I. agent.
可是人们还是经常把《黑名单》和《沉默的羔羊》(Silence of the Lambs)联系在一起，因为它的很多关键元素都让人联想到那部电影。那个危险的主要罪犯被抓住了，戴着脚镣，关在方笼子里，只跟一名年轻的FBI女探员说话。
Both Mr. Spader and Ms. Boone acknowledged that the pilot suggests “Silence,” mainly in its imagery: those shackles for example. But Reddington is no serial killer, not even a psychopath, though “he might be a little crazy,” Mr. Spader conceded.
斯派德和布恩承认，试播集的确让人联想到《沉默的羔羊》，不过相似之处主要在表面，比如那些脚镣。但是雷丁顿不是连环杀手，甚至不是精神病患者，虽然斯派德承认“他可能有点疯狂”。
Mr. Bokenkamp argued that Reddington shares almost nothing with the “Silence” man-eating villain, Hannibal Lecter. “On the other hand,” he said, “If you have to be compared to something, you might as well be compared to something great.”
伯肯坎普则认为，雷丁顿与《沉默的羔羊》中那个吃人的恶棍汉尼拔·莱克特(Hannibal Lecter)几乎没有任何相似之处。“不过，”他说，“如果你必须拿它跟别的作品相比较的话，跟一部杰作比较还是件好事。”
Though it definitely makes Mr. Spader happy, “The Blacklist” is being shot in New York mainly because the city can double for almost anywhere else, Mr. Bokenkamp said, and the producers intend to create scenes around the world, as Reddington and Liz capture what the staff calls “the Bond villain of the week.” Ms. Boone noted, “We have already turned Barrow Street into Montreal and Queens into Shanghai.”
伯肯坎普说，《黑名单》在纽约拍摄主要是因为这座城市几乎可以假扮世界上的任何一个地方，这当然让斯派德很高兴，不过制作人们想让雷丁顿和利兹在抓捕工作人员所说的“本周邦德反派”时，制造一种在世界各地抓捕的景象。布恩说，“我们已经把巴罗街变成了蒙特利尔，把皇后区变成了上海。”
Ideally “The Blacklist” would grab some of the magic of the recent spate of great dramas on cable television by emphasizing serial elements like the continuing mysteries of Reddington’s motivation and Liz’s past while at the same time following network procedural tradition by catching “the bad guy of the week,” as Mr. Bokenkamp put it.
最理想的结果是，《黑名单》能通过不断揭开雷丁顿的动机和利兹的过往这些谜团使自己具有有线电视网最近那一大堆精彩剧集的魅力，同时又像伯肯坎普说的那样，遵循电视网的制作传统，“每周抓一个坏蛋”。
But there is little doubt the show’s spotlight will fall on Mr. Spader. He wants the idiosyncrasies doled out carefully. “I’ve hammered into the producers as much as I can,” he said, that “too much of him will be like too much ice cream.”
但是，无疑该剧的焦点将是斯派德。他希望不动声色地让人物的另类之处慢慢显现出来。他说，“我已经尽可能地向制作人们灌输这样的观点”——“太过另类就像供应太多冰激凌”。
Who is anyone kidding? Television series love to serve ice cream.
开什么玩笑呢？电视剧就喜欢供应冰激凌。
“You really want to watch him,” Ms. Boone said, then added, “He does play the overly confident, egomaniacal, morally ambiguous guy really well.”
“你真的想看他的表演，”布恩说。她又补充，“他真的精彩演绎了那个过度自信、极端自私、从道德上讲有争议的家伙。”