SINGAPORE — Singapore, with a little less land mass than New York City, is running out of room for its 5.4 million people.
新加坡——陆地面积比纽约市略小的新加坡有540万人口，那里的空间即将耗尽。
The city-state has built upward — with apartment buildings reaching as high as 70 stories — reclaimed underused properties for housing and pushed out coastlines for more usable land.
这个城市国家是向上建设的——住宅楼可以高达70层——它将未充分利用的地产收回，用于住房开发，还将海岸线向外扩，以获取更多可用的土地。
But as one of the world’s most crowded cities, and with projections for 1.5 million more people in the next 15 years, Singapore’s options are as limited as its space. So Singapore is considering a novel solution: building underground to create an extensive, interconnected city, with shopping malls, transportation hubs, public spaces, pedestrian links and even cycling lanes.
但是作为世界上最拥挤的城市之一，再加上未来15年还要增长150万人口的预期，新加坡手头的选项和它的土地一样少。所以新加坡在考虑一个创新的解决方案：在地下建造一个庞大的、连通的城市，配备购物中心、交通枢纽、公共空间、步行街，甚至还有自行车道。
“Singapore is small, and whether we have 6.9 million or not, there is always a need to find new land space,” said Zhao Zhiye, the interim director of the Nanyang Center for Underground Space at Nanyang Technological University. “The utilization of underground space is one option for Singapore.”
“新加坡很小，不管人口会不会达到690万，我们总是需要寻找新的土地空间，”南洋理工大学(Nanyang Technological University)南洋地下空间研究中心代主任赵志业说。“地下空间利用是新加坡的一个选择。”
Height restrictions imposed on areas around air bases and airports have prevented developers from building taller projects. And there is a limit to how much land can be reclaimed from the ocean — so far it accounts for a fifth of Singapore’s space but it is vulnerable to rising sea levels caused by climate change.
空军基地和机场周边地区的建筑高度限制令开发商无法把楼盖得更高。填海造陆也是有限制的——目前新加坡有五分之一的土地来自填海，但这些土地对气候变化导致的海平面上升会很敏感。
The squeeze has led to the closing of several old estates and military camps to make way for residential and industrial developments.
由于空间拥挤，已经有数个老庄园和军队营地被关闭，为居住和工业开发腾出空间。
Building underground is not new in Singapore. About 12 kilometers, or eight miles, of expressways and about 80 kilometers of transit lines are below ground. Underground drainage systems and utility tunnels are common features beneath the urban landscape.
地下建设在新加坡并非新鲜事。这里有约12公里的高速公路和约80公里的轨道交通线路是处于地下的。地下排水系统和综合管线在城市地下也随处可见。
Now Singapore is going further, beginning work on a huge underground oil bunker called Jurong Rock Caverns. When this is completed, it will free up about 150 acres of land, an area equivalent to six petrochemical plants.
而现在新加坡正在更进一步，开始建设一个名为“裕廊岩洞”(Jurong Rock Caverns)的大型地下储油库工程。竣工后将能腾出150英亩（约合60公顷）的土地，相当于6座化工厂的占地面积。
Another project on the drawing board is the Underground Science City, with 40 interconnected caverns for data centers and research and development labs that would support the biomedical and life sciences industries. The science center, with an estimated 50 acres to be situated 30 stories below a science park in western Singapore, would house as many as 4,200 scientists and researchers.
另一个在规划中的项目是地下科学城(Underground Science City)，它包括40个连通的岩洞，供生物医疗和生命科学产业的数据中心和研发实验室使用。科学中心的大致面积为50英亩，位于新加坡西部一座科学园的地下，距地面30层楼的地方，可以容纳4200名科学家和研究人员。
“A lot of facilities can go underground if you fully utilize the underground space,” Dr. Zhao said. “In the beginning there might be a psychological issue, but as long as we have proper lighting and proper ventilation, gradually people can overcome the idea of working and living underground.”
“如果充分利用地下空间，许多设施都可以搬到地下，”赵志业说。“一开始可能会有一些心理上的问题，但只要能给予合理的照明和通风，人们慢慢会适应在地下的工作和生活。”
Subterranean projects can be three to four times as costly as surface projects because of higher construction costs and the need for extensive soil investigations.
地下工程的造价可能会比地面工程高出两三倍，因为建造成本更高，而且需要做更充分的土壤研究。
In a recent blog post, Khaw Boon Wan, Singapore’s minister for national development, pointed to extensive pedestrian passageways and shopping malls in Japan and Canada.
新加坡发展部部长许文远(Khaw Boon Wan)近日在一篇博文中指出，在日本和加拿大有大量的步行街和购物中心。
He cited the possibilities in Singapore “of creating underground transport hubs, pedestrian links, cycling lanes, utility plants, storage and research facilities, industrial uses, shopping areas and other public spaces here.”
他提出新加坡也许可以“建造地下交通枢纽、步行街、自行车道、公共设施、仓储和研究设施、工业应用、购物区和其他公共空间。”
“The earlier we begin this process, the faster we will learn and the easier it would be for us to realize these plans,” he said.
“我们越早开始这些事，就能越早开始掌握它，这些计划实现起来就会更容易，”他说。
But the idea of working and living underground has met with some skepticism from the public.
但是公众对在地下工作和生活的想法有一些疑虑。
“Over the years, many of us have relocated from kampongs to high-rise living in government flats,” said Joseph Tan, 69, a retired accountant, referring to traditional Malay villages. “Just when we have finally adjusted to living in these residential buildings, there are plans for us to live below ground. At my age, I just hope to live comfortably.”
“这么多年来，我们很多人从坎彭搬到高楼大厦，住在政府公寓里，”69岁的退休会计约瑟夫·陈(Joseph Tan)说，他说的坎彭是一种传统的马来村庄。“总算是适应了在住宅楼里的生活，他们又打算让我们住到地下去。我这把年纪，只想住得舒服些 。”
David Ong, a former teacher, said the older generation might not feel at ease with the concept of subterranean living, partly out of superstition.
曾为教师的戴维·王(David Ong)说，老一辈对在地下生活的概念也许不太能接受，这在一定程度上跟迷信有些关系。
“Why are the living going underground?” he asked. “Only the dead return to the ground.”
“为什么活人要到地底下去？”他问道。“只有死人才要入土。”
The trend toward burying infrastructure has led city planners to think grandly, as they consider whether more activities could occur below ground. Some projects, like the excavation of underground tunnels and Jurong Rock Caverns, are already in full swing.
将基础设施埋到地下的趋势促使城市规划者们展开大胆的设想，他们开始考虑是不是可以把更多的活动移到地下。其中一些项目，比如地下隧道和裕廊岩洞的开挖，已经在全力进行中。
At the city’s two oldest universities, Nanyang and the National University of Singapore, studies have identified suitable areas to build sports facilities, libraries and lecture theaters below ground. According to researchers from both institutions, students may one day swim in an underground pool or watch a film in a subterranean theater.
新加坡两所历史最悠久的大学——南洋理工大学和新加坡国立大学(National University of Singapore)——已经通过研究找出了适合在地下修建体育设施、图书馆和演讲厅的区域。据两所大学的研究人员表示，也许有一天学生们可以纵身跃入地下泳池，或在地下电影院里看一场电影。
But even with the current projects, subterranean development in Singapore is still in its early stages.
但尽管已经有项目在进行中，新加坡的地下开发还是处于十分初期的阶段。
Dr. Zhao, one of the researchers behind Nanyang’s study on underground development, said extensive studies needed to be done.
作为南洋理工地下开发研究团队的一份子，赵志业博士说，还有大量的研究工作有待进行。
“It is a big investment if we really want to go underground, and it requires comprehensive studies and careful planning,” he added. “At the moment we manage fine, but if there is a need for space in future, we know that there is the option of going underground.”
“如果我们真的想走入地下，那将是一次巨大的投资，需要充分的研究和谨慎的规划，”他还说。“目前的局面还是在我们的掌握之中，但是万一将来出现空间需求，我们知道去地下是一个选择。”