A long-awaited law against domestic violence in China must address elder abuse, which happens “quite a lot” despite China’s cultural tradition of respect for the elderly, said Sun Xiaomei, a delegate to the National People’s Congress, which is meeting now in Beijing.
中国期待已久的《家庭暴力防治法》必须解决对老年人施暴的问题，尽管中国的文化传统尊敬老人，但这种情况依然“不少”，参加全国人大的代表孙晓梅说，全国人大目前正在北京召开。
Ms. Sun, a professor at the School of Gender and Social Development at China Women’s University in Beijing, added that significant protections for children must also be written into the law. Child abuse is also a serious problem in a culture where “da ma” (打骂), or “hit and scold,” is still widely considered an acceptable way to raise children.
孙晓梅是北京中华女子学院女性学系教授，她还说必须把对儿童的大力保护也写进法律。虐待儿童在中国也是一个严重的问题，很多人依然认为"打骂"在教育孩子时是一个可以接受的方式。
In fact, a domestic violence law should recognize all potential victims — spouses, including men; the elderly; and children — and empower courts to issue protection orders that would shield them from their abusers, she said.
她说，事实上，一部家庭暴力防治法应当考虑到所有潜在的受害者——包括男性在内的配偶，老人和孩子——并授权法庭发布保护令，让他们能避开施暴者。
But progress on a law, which was first introduced to the legislative agenda in 2012, has been slow, said Ms. Sun, in an interview on Friday. So on Wednesday, the opening day of the annual meeting, she immediately filed a “speed-up motion,” she said.
但是，孙晓梅周五在一次采访中说，这个法律的进展比较慢，议案是在2012年首次列入立法议程的。所以她说，在一年一度的人大于周三开幕之后，她马上提交了一份“加快立法的动议”。
“It should be able to come into being before this current session of the congress ends in 2018,” she said. (The National People’s Congress meets 10 days a year, over a five-year term.) The prognosis will disappoint activists who had hoped a domestic violence law might be enacted as early as next year, the 20th anniversary of the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women, which was held in Beijing. The conference was a landmark event for global feminism, declaring in its platform that “Women’s rights are human rights.”
她说，“这个立法应该能在本届人民代表任期在2018年结束之前完成。”（全国人民代表任期五年，任期间每年开一次为时十天的会。）这个预期将会让很多活动人士失望，他们希望家庭暴力防治法最早可能在明年生效，明年是在北京召开的联合国第四次世界妇女大会(UnitedNations Fourth World Conference on Women)的20周年。那次妇女大会是全球女权运动的一个标志性事件，会议纲领宣布了“女权也是人权。”
As a delegate to the National People’s Congress, Ms. Sun has privileged insights into the usually opaque process of law-making in China, and her comments are likely to be closely analyzed by feminists and legal activists seeking clues as to what a domestic violence law may contain.
作为全国人大代表，孙晓梅有洞察通常不透明的中国立法程序的特权，因此，她的话很可能会被女权主义者和积极推动立法的人仔细研究，以从中找到针对家庭暴力立法所包括的内容。
Reflecting concerns among feminists that the law should require effective protection orders to keep assailants away from their victims, most of whom are women, she said she agreed that such court orders were essential and had filed a second motion on Wednesday, calling on the police to be charged with enforcing them.
女权主义者关注的一个问题是，这项法律应当具备有效的保护措施，使大多数是女性的受害人能远离施暴者，作为对这个关注的回应，孙晓梅说她也认为这种法院命令必不可少，并已在周三提交了第二份动议，呼吁警方负责执行这种命令。
Feminists say that the police must be involved in enforcement of protection orders since they are often the first responders to violent situations. Currently, someone who goes to the police seeking help against a violent family member will generally be advised to return home and “work it out,” many victims and activists say. Chinese culture has traditionally regarded family abuse as a private, not a criminal, matter.
女权主义者说，警察必须介入保护命令的执行，因为他们通常是家庭暴力的第一反应者。很多受害人和活动人士说，现在如果有人去派出所，由于家庭成员暴力而寻求保护的话，警方一般会建议他们回家“解决”。中国文化传统地认为家庭暴力是私事，不是犯罪行为。
“Two hundred protection orders have been issued in China so far,” said Ms. Sun. “The orders are working very well.”
孙晓梅说，“迄今为止，国内已经发出200条保护令。这些命令效果不错。”
However, only some of them spell out the physical distance abusers must maintain from their victims or state, for example, that they may not enter their homes, she said.
但是她说，这些法令中只有一些有对施暴者必须与受害人保持多远距离的明确要求，比如规定施暴者不准进家门。
“We need the police to implement the orders, and they must get training,” Ms. Sun said. “I’ve already spoken to the Ministry of Public Security about this, and they have accepted my suggestion.”
孙晓梅说，“我们需要警察去执行这些法令，他们必须经过培训。我已经向公安部反应了这个问题，他们已经接受了我的建议。”