SHANGHAI — The value of China’s currency, the renminbi, continued to slide against the United States dollar on Friday, rattling investors by falling to its lowest level in nearly a year.
上海——周五人民币对美元的比值持续走低，跌至近一年来的最低水平，给投资者带来不安。
With a drop of 0.3 percent, the renminbi hit 6.145 to the dollar in Friday trading, helping reverse a long running trend of gradual, incremental appreciation against the dollar and other major currencies during the last eight years. The intraday drop of almost 1 percent Friday was the biggest in years.
周五人民币对美元汇率下跌了0.3%，降至6.145元对1美元，扭转了过去八年来人民币对美元以及其他主要外币的不断升值的趋势。周五的盘中跌幅近1%，是几年来最大的。
Analysts believe China’s central bank is intervening in the currency markets, intentionally engineering a slide in the value of the Chinese currency to punish speculators and prevent huge capital flows, or so-called hot money, from entering the country.
分析人士认为中国央行正在干预人民币市场，有意制造人民币的贬值，以惩罚投机者，并阻止大量资金、也就是所谓的热钱，流入中国。
The authorities worry that the large inflows could generate inflationary pressure and complicate the central government’s effort to restructure China’s economy and eventually free up interest rates and improve the banking system.
当局担心大笔资金涌入，会制造通货膨胀压力，也会让中央政府重组中国经济、最终将利率自由化并改进银行系统的努力变得更为复杂。
Still, few analysts expect China’s currency to continue to weaken against the dollar. Many economists are forecasting the renminbi to end 2014 just about where it began, about 6 yuan to the dollar, or slight stronger, at about 5.9.
然而，几乎没有分析人士预期人民币对美元的比值会继续下跌。许多经济学家预计，2014年底人民币与美元的比值会回到今年初的状态，也就是1美元兑换约6元人民币，或许稍有升值，即1美元兑5.9元人民币左右。
While the Chinese authorities maintain tight control over the flow of money into the country, global investors have found ways to funnel hot money into the country, often through trade financing deals. Speculators do so hoping to capitalize on something not so easy to find outside of China: an economy wedded to fast growth, high interest rates and a steadily appreciating currency.
虽然中国政府继续严格控制外部资金流入，但国际投资者还是找到了将热钱输入中国的办法，通常是利用贸易融资交易来做。投机者这么做是希望能从中国以外不容易找到的经济中赚上一把：中国的经济一直维持着高增长率、高利率，以及货币的稳定升值。
Last year, the renminbi was one of the world’s strongest performing currencies.
去年，人民币是世界上表现最坚挺的货币之一。
“It’s hard to completely stop it” from flowing into China, Wang Tao, the chief China economist at UBS, said of the hot money. “Offshore, the interest rates are low; Chinese interest rates are really high. And if the exchange rate is appreciating, investors view it as a win-win.”
瑞银(UBS)首席中国经济学家汪涛在谈到热钱时说，“很难完全阻止热钱”流进中国。“海外的利率很低；中国的利率真的很高。如果汇率也升值的话，投资者认为那是双赢。”
By weakening the value of the renminbi, also known as the yuan, the authorities here apparently hope to make it harder for speculators to engage in a one-way bet on a rising yuan, what is essentially an arbitrage game between interest rates in the advanced economies outside and higher rates in the more tightly controlled Chinese system. For speculators, currency appreciation is seen as an added benefit.
通过让人民币贬值，当局看来是希望给把赌注下在人民币单向升值的炒家制造一点困难，这实际上是一种利用发达国家较低利率与中国监管更加严格体系内较高的利率之间的差别，玩的套利游戏。对投机者来说，货币升值是额外的收益。
But low interest rates in the United States and Europe mean that there are few places to safely invest. At the same time, Chinese companies are desperate for cash because of rising interest rates at home and tighter bank liquidity.
但是，由于美国和欧洲国家的利率很低，人们几乎没有可以进行安全投资的地方。同时，中国公司则因为国内不断上涨的利率以及更吃紧的银行资金流动性而迫切需要现金。
The huge inflows of capital are showing up in China’s economic figures, with some analysts estimating hot money inflows last year at $150 billion. Analysts say the government wants speculators to know that making such a bet on appreciation could backfire, if appreciation slows or even reverses course, and that is why the last few days have been so volatile.
大笔涌入的资本正反映在中国的经济数据中，一些分析人士估计去年涌进中国的热钱高达1500亿美元（约合9200亿元人民币）。分析人士称，政府希望让投机者认识到，这样对升值下赌注，一旦升值速度放慢甚或是出现贬值，则可能会导致适得其反的结果。这正是过去几天货币市场波动较大的原因。
In a statement this week, China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange, a division under the central bank, suggested the market volatility had been normal. “The recent movement of the renminbi exchange rate is the result of market players adjusting their near-term renminbi trading strategies,” it said. “The degree of exchange rate volatility is normal by the standards of developed and emerging markets. There is no need to overinterpret it.”
央行下属机构中国国家外汇管理局这周在一份声明中暗示，市场的波动是正常的。声明称，“近期人民币汇率走势是市场主体调整前期人民币交易策略的结果。这次汇率波动幅度与发达和新兴市场货币的波动相比属于正常波动，不必过分解读。”