An official Chinese news portal unveiled an online game on Thursday that allows users to shoot Japanese war criminals, in a move that is likely to please Chinese nationalists but do little to ease tensions between Beijing and Tokyo.
中国一家官方新闻门户网站周四推出了一款在线游戏，玩家在游戏中可以朝日本战犯射击。这一举措可能会取悦中国的民族主义者，但对缓和中日两国的紧张关系并无帮助。
The move came the same day that China’s top legislative body, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, ratified two new national days: Sept. 3 to mark Japan’s defeat in World War II and Dec. 13 to commemorate the victims of the 1937 Nanjing Massacre, when the Japanese military went on a deadly six-week rampage in the city.
同一天，中国的最高立法机构全国人大常委会批准设立了两个全国性纪念日：9月3日纪念日本在第二次世界大战中战败，12月13日祭奠1937年南京大屠杀中的死难者，当时日本军队在南京城中进行了六周的杀戮。
The game launched by People’s Daily Online Weibo, a microblog affiliated with the newspaper of the ruling Communist Party, is provocatively titled “Shoot the Devils.” In China, “Japanese devil” is a common slur. The game also features an offensive caricature of a Japanese soldier.
这个名为“打鬼子”的游戏是人民微博推出的。人民微博是中国共产党的机关报《人民日报》下属的微博服务。“日本鬼子”在中国是一个常见的咒骂语，因而游戏的名字也颇具挑衅意味，游戏中还显示了一个丑化日本士兵的漫画形象。
The point-and-shoot game allows users to fire a handgun at one of 14 Japanese convicted as Class A war criminals after the war, to the accompaniment of a popular Chinese military tune. The 14 are the same men now honored at the Yasukuni Shrine in Japan, as the game reminds users as they choose their target. The selection screen includes biographies of each one, describing their roles in the war.
这个射击小游戏中，玩家可以用手枪朝战后被判刑的14名日本甲级战犯射击，伴奏的音乐是中国流行的军旅歌曲。这14人在日本靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)受到供奉，玩家在选择目标时，游戏也会这样提醒玩家。选择界面上对每个人都给出了介绍，描述了他们在战争中扮演的角色。
The game’s creators said their purpose was to “expose the war crimes of the Japanese invaders” and allow players to “forever remember history” through a popular game form. A representative of People’s Daily Online Weibo declined to comment when reached by telephone. The website set up a similar game in January in which the targets are “corrupt officials.”
游戏的制作人员说，他们的目的是“揭露日本侵略者的战争罪行”，通过受欢迎的游戏形式让玩家“牢记历史”。在接到采访电话时，人民微博的一名代表拒绝发表评论。该网站曾在1月份推出了一款目标是“贪官”的类似游戏。
The game comes at a time when tensions between the world’s second- and third-biggest economies are running high, exacerbated by colliding perceptions of history. China often accuses Japan of not showing enough contrition for its wartime past and reacted angrily last December when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan visited the Yasukuni Shrine, which commemorates 2.5 million Japanese war dead, including the 14 Class A war criminals.
在该游戏推出之际，世界第二大和第三大经济体之间的关系极为紧张，历史观的冲突更加剧了这种紧张局势。中国时常指责，日本对战时的所作所为没有表现出足够的忏悔，去年12月，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)参拜靖国神社时，中国做出了愤怒的反应。靖国神社中供奉着250万名阵亡的日本军人，包括上述的14名甲级战犯。
The two countries are also embroiled in a territorial dispute over a group of uninhabited islands in the East China Sea, called the Diaoyu by Beijing and the Senkaku by Tokyo.
两国之间还存在领土争端，争议的焦点是东海上的几座无人居住的岛屿，它们在中国被称为钓鱼岛及其附属岛屿，在日本则被称为尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)。
Regional tensions mounted last November after Beijing declared an air defense identification zone in the East China Sea, which both Japan and its ally the United States have refused to recognize. Under the rules listed by China, any aircraft entering the zone msut report its flight plan to the Chinese authorities and follow their instructions.
去年11月，中国宣布在东海设立防空识别区，而日本及其盟友美国都拒绝承认这一识别区，地区内的紧张关系由此加深。按照中国的要求，任何进入该区域的飞机都必须向中国官方报告飞行计划，并遵从指示。
Beijing has not ruled out establishing a similar zone in the South China Sea, where its territorial claims overlap with those of several Southeast Asian countries.
中国官方并没有排除在南海也设立类似区域的可能性。在南海，中国的领土诉求与多个东南亚国家相冲突。
During a regular monthly news briefing on Thursday, a Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman, Yang Yujun, defended China’s right to establish such zones but said that whether it would do so in the South China Sea would depend on the “extent of threat.” He accused “right-wing forces in Japan” of “again and again hyping up news” that China had immediate plans for an air defense identification zone in that region.
在周四举行的每月例行记者会上，中国国防部发言人杨宇军辩解道，中国有权划定这样的识别区，但他说是否会在南海划定防空识别区取决于“威胁程度”。他指责“日本右翼势力近来再三炒作”中方计划立即在南海设置防空识别区的消息。