Renmin University of China, in Beijing, one of the leading centers of higher learning in the country, conferred its first degrees this year in a new graduate program in combating corruption. Future classes now have a case study close to home to draw from.
位于北京的中国人民大学是中国领先的高等学府之一，该校今年向首届反腐败硕士班学生颁发学位。这个专业未来的班级现在可以拿校内的一个案子作为案例研究。
This week, the head of the university’s student admissions office was accused of trying to flee the country after he came under investigation in a corruption case involving hundreds of millions of renminbi, according to Chinese news reports. A Ministry of Education press officer confirmed to state-run China Central Television that the administrator, Cai Rongsheng, was under investigation, without disclosing further details.
中国新闻报道称，人大招生处处长本周被指试图逃离中国，此前他因涉及数亿元人民币的腐败案件而接受调查。教育部新闻发言人向官方的中央电视台证实，人大招生处处长蔡荣生正在接受调查，但没有公布更多细节。
The Legal Evening News reported that Mr. Cai, 48, had attempted to flee the country for Canada and was stopped in the southern city of Shenzhen with a fake passport. A university spokesman told the newspaper that Mr. Cai had run into unspecified legal problems but denied that Mr. Cai had attempted to flee.
《法制晚报》报道称，今年48岁的蔡荣生试图持假护照逃离中国去加拿大，在南方的深圳市被截获。该校一名发言人对该报称，蔡荣生出事，但否认其企图潜逃国外。
Few details of the alleged corruption have been revealed. The Legal Evening News quoted a Renmin University professor, Zhang Keyun, who said he believed a system that allowed the university to recruit students independently, outside China’s national college entrance testing and placement structure, would inevitably lead to problems. The newspaper said that Hu Juan, a former secretary to the university’s president, had also been dismissed and was aiding investigators.
外界对这起据称的腐败案件的细节了解甚少。《法制晚报》引述人大教授张可云的话说，他认为中国人民大学在全国高校入学考试和招生程序以外的自主招生肯定会出问题。该报称，该校校长的前任秘书胡娟也被免职协助调查。
Reached by telephone, a staff member in the Renmin University admissions office declined to comment. Phones at the school’s public information and discipline offices rang unanswered.
人民大学招生处工作人员在接到记者的电话后拒绝发表评论。打给该校宣传部和纪委办公室的电话无人接听。
Corruption in education, from kindergarten placement to the highest levels of academia, is a source of widespread public complaint in China. As Dan Levin reported in The New York Times last year, parents and students are often expected to present pricey gifts to teachers, and schools often charge illegal admission fees that, in the case of a prestigious high school affiliated with Renmin University, can reach $130,000. Those burdens are one factor helping drive growing numbers of Chinese students to attend high school and college abroad.
从幼儿园录取到高等学府，中国教育系统的腐败是公众普遍不满的一个原因。正如《纽约时报》记者林丹(Dan Levin)去年所报道的，学生和家长经常被期望向老师赠送贵重的礼物，学校还经常收取非法的录取费用，就人民大学附属的一所知名高中而言，收费可能高达13万美元（约合79万元人民币）。这样的负担是促使越来越多中国学生到国外上高中和大学的一个因素。
Commentaries in the Chinese news media expressed concern but not much surprise at the reports of corruption at one of the country’s most prestigious universities.
中国新闻媒体的评论文章对中国最知名大学之一传出腐败消息表现出关注，但并不十分吃惊。
“What is certain is that Cai Rongsheng was responsible for admissions at a famous university, and his being investigated again shows the problem of corruption in the field of academia,” read a commentary in The Qilu Evening News, a newspaper based in the eastern city of Jinan. “If power doesn’t have any sort of controls, then corruption will become ubiquitous, and the so-called ‘ivory tower’ will also corrode.”
华东城市济南的《齐鲁晚报》发表评论称，“可以肯定的是，蔡荣生作为著名高校的招生部门负责人，他被调查再次暴露了高等教育领域的腐败问题。如果权力不受约束，腐败就会无孔不入，所谓的‘象牙塔’也经不起腐蚀。”
China’s president, Xi Jinping, has made tackling corruption one of his top priorities, and in recent months several provincial officials and people with ties to the country’s powerful oil industry have come under investigation. On Thursday, the Communist Party’s Central Commission for Discipline Inspection announced that Xu Jie, the deputy director of the State Bureau for Letters and Calls, was under investigation for “serious violations of laws and discipline.” The bureau manages China’s notoriously ineffective petitioning system, by which people who believe they have not received fair treatment can directly appeal to higher authorities.
中国国家主席习近平已将反腐列为首要任务之一，最近几个月已有多名省级官员和与中国权势颇大的石油行业密切相关的一些人受到调查。周四，中共中央纪律检查委员会宣布国家信访局副局长许杰涉嫌“严重违纪违法”，正接受调查。信访局管理着中国以低效出名的信访系统，那些认为自己受到不公平对待的人可以通过这一系统向更高级别的机构直接陈情。
Renmin University was included in a high-level field investigation by anticorruption officials that began in June, according to The Beijing Morning Post. Such inspection tours generally focus on local government and state-owned enterprises. Renmin University was the only educational institution included in this summer’s round of inspection visits, the newspaper said.
《北京晨报》消息称，从6月开始，人民大学就被反腐官员列入要进行高层巡视调查的范围。这种巡视调查一般专注于地方政府和国有企业。该报称，人民大学是今夏这轮巡视所针对的唯一一所教育机构。
The other inspection targets announced by the party’s anticorruption body included the provinces of Jiangxi, Hubei and Guizhou; Inner Mongolia; the city of Chongqing; China Grain Reserves Corporation; the Ministry of Water Resources; China Publishing Group Corporation; and the Export-Import Bank of China.
党的反腐机构宣布的其他巡视对象包括江西、湖北和贵州省、内蒙古、重庆市、中国储备粮管理总公司、水利部、中国出版集团以及中国进出口银行。
Guo Youming, vice governor of Hubei Province, is now under investigation for unspecified legal violations, the anticorruption body announced Wednesday.
该反腐机构周三宣布，湖北省副省长郭有明因涉嫌违法正接受调查，但未具体说明触犯了何种法律。