In a hidden treasure room dedicated to celebrating the Third Reich, Argentine police officers have found a trove of Nazi artifacts, including a bust of Hitler, that they believe were taken to the country by fugitive Germans.
在一个用于供奉第三帝国的密室中，阿根廷警察发现了一批纳粹文物，其中包括希特勒的半身像，他们认为这批物品是由逃亡的德国人带到阿根廷的。
The police said on Tuesday that they had uncovered the collection of more than 75 artifacts outside Buenos Aires, in the suburban home of a collector whom they have not yet named.
警方周二表示，他们在布宜诺斯艾利斯郊区一个收藏者的家中发现了逾75件手工艺品。收藏者的名字未披露。
“After investigating,” said Marcelo El Haibe, the federal police commissioner for the protection of cultural heritage, “we were able to discover those objects that were hidden behind a bookcase. Behind the bookcase there was a wall, and after that a door.”
联邦警察文化遗产保护专员马塞洛·埃尔哈伊布(Marcelo El Haibe)说，“经过调查，我们发现了隐藏在一个书柜后面的这批物品。书柜的后面有一堵墙，然后是一扇门。”
In the secret chamber, the police found what they said were authentic Nazi artifacts that probably belonged to high-ranking party members during World War II.
在这个密室里，警方称他们发现了可能属于“二战”时期高级纳粹党员的手工艺品。
Among the items, the police said, were a magnifying glass and photo negatives that appeared to show Hitler holding the same lens. “We have turned to historians, and they’ve told us it is the original magnifying glass” used by Hitler in the photograph, said Nestor Roncaglia, the head of Argentina’s federal police.
警方说，在这批物品中，有一个放大镜，还有希特勒似乎拿着这个放大镜的照片底片。阿根廷联邦警察局局长内斯托尔·罗卡利亚(Nestor Roncaglia)表示：“我们向历史学家求助，他们表示，照片中希特勒拿的就是那把放大镜。”
The police also found toys and musical instruments, including a box of harmonicas, emblazoned with swastikas and Nazi symbols, that would have been used to indoctrinate children.
警方还发现了一些玩具和乐器，其中有一盒口琴，上面装饰着卐字符和纳粹标志，可能是用来向孩子们灌输纳粹思想的。
“There are Nazi objects used by kids, but with the party’s propaganda,” Commissioner El Haibe said. He added, “There were jigsaw puzzles and little wood pieces to build houses, but they always featured party-related images and symbols.”
“这些纳粹物品是给小孩使用的，但带着纳粹的宣传元素，”哈伊布专员说道。“还有用来搭建玩具房子的拼图和小木块，但它们都带有和纳粹相关的图像和符号。”
The authorities said they had uncovered the collection in the course of a wider investigation into artwork of suspicious origin found at a gallery in Buenos Aires.
当局表示，他们最初在布宜诺斯艾利斯的一个画廊发现了来源可疑的艺术品，于是进行了广泛调查，结果发现了这些藏品。
Agents of Argentina’s federal police and Interpol, the international police force, raided the collector’s house on June 8. The collector was not at the house at the time, and has not been charged, but is under investigation, the police said.
警方表示，阿根廷联邦警察和国际刑警组织的探员在6月8日对收藏者的住宅进行了搜索。当时收藏者并不在家，这名收藏者没有被起诉，但正在接受调查。
The authorities also found medical devices associated with the Nazis’ eugenics programs, including a tool used to measure people’s heads as a way of assessing their supposed racial purity.
当局还发现了一些与纳粹的优生计划有关的医疗器械，包括用来测量人类头部的工具，这是评估所谓种族纯洁性的一种方式。
“We know the history, we know of the horrible experiments conducted by Josef Mengele,” said Ariel Cohen Sabban, president of the Delegation of Israelite-Argentines Associations, the country’s largest Jewish organization.
阿里埃勒·科恩·萨班(Ariel Cohen Sabban)是该国最大的犹太组织阿根廷犹太人协会代表团(Delegation of Israelite-Argentines Associations)的主席，他说：“我们知道那段历史，我们知道约瑟夫·门格勒(Josef Mengele)所做的那些可怕实验。”
Mengele, a notorious Nazi doctor, fled to Argentina to avoid prosecution for war crimes in Europe. He lived in the capital for a decade and eventually died in Brazil in 1979.
门格勒是一个臭名昭著的纳粹医生，因为害怕在欧洲遭到战争罪起诉而逃到了阿根廷。他在该国首都住了10年，最终于1979年在巴西去世。
“When I see these objects,” Mr. Sabban said, “I see the infamy of that terrible era of humanity that has caused so much damage, so much sadness.”
“当我看到这些东西的时候，”萨班说，“我看到那个人性黑暗时代的恶行，它们造成了如此大的伤害，如此多的悲伤。”