Myanmar’s persecution of Rohingya Muslims in recent months, which has uprooted a half-million people and been condemned by the United Nations as ethnic cleansing, has been corroborated by many graphic accounts of killings, sexual violence and other atrocities.
缅甸最近几个月对罗辛亚穆斯林的迫害已造成50万人背井离乡，并遭到联合国的谴责，被指是种族清洗。很多有关杀戮、性暴力和其他暴行的生动描述，证实了迫害活动。
But a report on the Rohingya released early Thursday by Human Rights Watch, which focused on sexual violence, said that the raping of women and girls appeared to be even more widespread and systematic than earlier suspected, and that uniformed members of Myanmar’s military were responsible for it.
但人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)周四一早发布的一份有关罗辛亚人的报告表示，强奸妇女和女童的现象似乎比早前预想得更为普遍，更具系统性，并称未穿制服的缅甸军人要为此事负责。该报告重点关注性暴力。
The report was based on interviews with 52 Rohingya women and girls who had fled to neighboring Bangladesh, including 29 survivors of rape from 19 different villages in Myanmar’s Rakhine State.
这份报告是基于对52名已逃至邻国孟加拉国的妇女和女童所做的采访，其中包括来自缅甸若开邦19个村的29名强奸幸存者。
Human Rights Watch said the report’s conclusions also drew from interviews with 17 representatives of humanitarian organizations providing health services to Rohingya women and girls in Bangladesh refugee camps, as well as Bangladeshi health officials.
人权观察组织称，报告的结论还来自为孟加拉国难民营的罗辛亚妇女和女童提供卫生服务的人道主义组织的17名代表，以及孟加拉国卫生官员的采访。
It found that Myanmar security forces had “raped and sexually assaulted women and girls both during major attacks on villages but also in the weeks prior to these major attacks sometimes after repeated harassment.”
报告发现，缅甸安全部队“不仅在对村庄进行大规模袭击期间，在袭击前的几周也有强奸和性侵妇女和女童的行为，有时是在一再骚扰过后”。
In every case, the report said, “the perpetrators were uniformed members of security forces, almost all military personnel.”
报告称，每次“施暴者都是没穿制服的安全部队成员，几乎都是军事人员”。
While Human Rights Watch did not estimate the number of rapes, it said that dozens and “sometimes hundreds of cases” had been reported by aid groups working with refugees in the camps, and that they “likely only represent a proportion” of the total.
尽管没有估算强奸案的数量，但人权观察组织称，在难民营救助难民的救援组织已上报了数十起，“有时候是数百起案例”，并且它们“可能只是总数的一部分”。
“All but one of the rapes reported to Human Rights Watch were gang rapes, involving two or more perpetrators,” the report said. “In eight cases women and girls reported being raped by five or more soldiers. They described being raped in their homes and while fleeing burning villages.”
“报给人权观察组织的强奸案中，除一起以外都是轮奸，涉及两名或以上施暴者，”报告写道。“在上报的八起案件中，妇女和女童遭到五名或以上士兵的强奸。她们说是在自己家中和逃离熊熊燃烧的村庄期间遭到强奸的。”
Nisha Varia, advocacy director of Human Rights Watch’s women’s rights division, said the report showed “the patterns that we were able to uncover that provide a much fuller sense of how these attacks were carried out.”
人权观察组织的女性权益倡导部门主任尼莎·瓦里亚(Nisha Varia)说，该报告揭示出“我们能够发现的模式，它们提供了一个更全面的视角，让外界知道这些袭击是怎么发生的”。
Those patterns, she said, “include the verification of uniformed members of security forces as perpetrators, the high incidence of gang rapes, several instances of ‘mass rape,’ and the patterns of sexual harassment and violence in the weeks leading up to attacks on villages.”
她说，这些模式“包括施暴者被证实是没有穿制服的安全部队成员、轮奸的高发、多起‘大规模强奸’以及在村庄遭到袭击前几周出现的性骚扰和暴力模式”。
The Human Rights Watch report was released against the backdrop of growing international pressure on Myanmar to stop the Rohingya persecution.
人权观察组织是在国际社会对缅甸日渐加压，要求其停止迫害罗辛亚人的背景下发布这份报告的。
It came a day after Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson visited Myanmar and told its leaders to investigate “credible reports of widespread atrocities,” an accusation that Myanmar officials have repeatedly rejected.
在报告发布的前一天，美国国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)访问缅甸，他要求该国领导人调查“存在广泛暴行的可信报道”。缅甸官方多次否认这一指控。
The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and Fortify Rights, an advocacy group, said in a report released Wednesday that there was “mounting evidence” that the anti-Rohingya campaign in Myanmar amounted to genocide. The report was based on a year of research and more than 200 interviews.
美国大屠杀纪念博物馆(United States Holocaust Memorial Museum)和倡导组织“巩固人权”(Fortify Rights)在周三发布的一份报告中称，“越来越多的证据”表明，缅甸的反罗辛亚运动相当于种族灭绝。该报告是基于一年的调查研究和200多次采访。
On Sunday, Pramila Patten, a United Nations diplomat who is the special representative on sexual violence in conflict, also suggested that the Rohingya were genocide victims and that the perpetrators should be tried at the International Criminal Court.
周日，联合国负责冲突中性暴力问题的特别代表普拉米拉·帕滕(Pramila Patten)也表示，罗辛亚人是种族灭绝的受害者，并称施暴者应该受到国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)的审判。
Ms. Patten spoke after a three-day visit to the Rohingya camps in Bangladesh, where she met extensively with women and girls who had escaped the crackdown.
帕滕是在对孟加拉国的罗辛亚难民营进行了三天的视察后发表上述言论的。在难民营，她见到了大量从打击活动中逃出来的妇女和女童。
“Rape is an act and a weapon of genocide,” she was quoted by Reuters as saying. “The widespread threat and use of sexual violence was a driver and ‘push factor’ for forced displacement on a massive scale, and a calculated tool of terror aimed at the extermination and removal of the Rohingya as a group.”
“强奸是一种种族灭绝行为，也是种族灭绝的武器，”路透社援引她的话说。“性暴力的普遍威胁和发生，是大规模被迫迁移的‘推动因素’，也是一个经过深思熟虑，意在把罗辛亚人作为一个群体消灭掉和赶走的恐怖工具。”