STANFORD, Calif. — On Stanford University’s sprawling campus, where a long palm-lined drive leads to manicured quads, humanities professors produce highly regarded scholarship on Renaissance French literature and the philosophy of language.
加利福尼亚州斯坦福——在斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的庞大校园里，两旁栽种着棕榈树的漫长大道通往整洁的四方庭院，人文学科的教授在文艺复兴时期的法国文学及语言哲学等领域开展卓越的学术研究。
They have generous compensation, stunning surroundings and access to the latest technology and techniques of scholarship. The only thing they lack is students: Some 45 percent of the faculty members in Stanford’s main undergraduate division are clustered in the humanities — but only 15 percent of the students.
他们有丰厚的薪金、绝佳的环境，能够接触到学术最前沿的技术与技巧。他们唯一缺乏的东西是学生：斯坦福主要本科院系的教师中，有45%来自人文学科，学生人数却仅占15%。
With Stanford’s reputation in technology, it is no wonder that computer science is the university’s most popular major, and that there are no longer any humanities programs among the top five. But with the recession having helped turn college, in the popular view, into largely a tool for job preparation, administrators are concerned.
鉴于斯坦福在技术领域的声誉，计算机科学成为学校最受欢迎的专业不足为奇，同样不奇怪的是，不再有人文学科跻身前五。不过，普遍的看法是，本轮经济衰退推动了高等院校的转变，而方向是主要成为就业培训工具。这让学校管理层深感忧虑。
“We have 11 humanities departments that are quite extraordinary, and we want to provide for that faculty,” said Richard Shaw, Stanford’s dean of admission and financial aid.
斯坦福主管录取与经济援助事务的理查德·肖(Richard Shaw)说，“我们有11个很棒的人文系，我们希望为它们提供支持。”
The concern that the humanities are being eclipsed by science goes far beyond Stanford.
人文学科遭遇理工科蚕食的忧虑远不止是出现在斯坦福。
At some public universities, where funding is eroding, humanities are being pared. In September, for example, Edinboro University of Pennsylvania announced that it was closing its sparsely populated degree programs in German, philosophy, and world languages and culture.
在一些出现经费流失现象的公立大学，人文学科深受其害。例如，今年9月，宾夕法尼亚州埃丁伯勒大学(Edinboro University of Pennsylvania)宣布，将关停德语、哲学及世界语言与文化院系中人数稀少的课程。
At elite universities, such departments are safe but wary. Harvard had a 20 percent decline in humanities majors over the last decade, a recent report found, and most students who say they intend to major in humanities end up in other fields. So the university is looking to reshape its first-year humanities courses to sustain student interest.
在精英大学中，此类院系仍然安全，但也不无担忧。一份最近的报告显示，哈佛大学(Harvard University)过去10年间的人文专业学生人数下降了20%，而且多数表示希望就读人文专业的学生最后去了别的领域。因此，哈佛正寻求调整大一的人文课程，以保有学生的兴趣。
Princeton, in an effort to recruit more humanities students, offers a program for high school students with a strong demonstrated interest in humanities — an idea Stanford, too, adopted last year.
为了招收更多的人文专业学生，普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)推出了一个课程，面向对人文学科表现出强烈兴趣的高中生。斯坦福去年也采纳了这种做法。
“Both inside the humanities and outside, people feel that the intellectual firepower in the universities is in the sciences, that the important issues that people of all sorts care about, like inequality and climate change, are being addressed not in the English departments,” said Andrew Delbanco, a Columbia University professor who writes about higher education.
哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的教授安德鲁·德尔班科(Andrew Delbanco)经常就高等教育撰写文章。他说，“人文学科内外的人都感觉，大学的知识源泉目前集中在科学领域，人们热议的重要话题，比如不平等和气候变化，都不是在英语系这样的地方研究的。”
The future of the humanities has been a hot topic this year, both in academia and the high-culture media. Some commentators sounded the alarm based on federal data showing that nationally, the percentage of humanities majors hovers around 7 percent — half the 14 percent share in 1970. As others quickly pointed out, that decline occurred between 1970, the high point, and 1985, not in recent years.
无论是在学术界，还是在高雅文化媒体圈，人文学科的未来一直是今年的热门话题。一些评论人士发出警告，联邦数据显示：全国范围内的人文专业学生人数目前在7%上下徘徊，只有1970年的14%的一半。另一些人则很快指出，1970年的数据是峰值，而这一下滑发生在当年到1985年之间，并不是最近的事。
Still, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences issued a report this spring noting the decreased funding for humanities and calling for new initiatives to ensure that they are not neglected amid the growing money and attention devoted to science and technology.
虽说如此，美国文理科学院(American Academy of Arts and Sciences)今春发布的一份报告指出了人文学科经费下滑的问题，呼吁采取新的行动，在越来越多的资金与关注投向科技领域的情况下，确保人文学科不被忽略。
Many distinguished humanities professors feel their status deflating. Anthony Grafton, a Princeton history professor who started that university’s humanities recruiting program, said he sometimes feels “like a newspaper comic strip character whose face is getting smaller and smaller.”
许多著名的人文教授感觉，他们的地位日益下降。普林斯顿的历史教授安东尼·格拉夫顿(Anthony Grafton)创立了该校面向高中生的人文学科招生课程。他说，有时候觉得自己“像是报纸连环画里的角色，脸越来越小”。
At Stanford, the humanists cannot help noticing the primacy of science and technology.
在斯坦福大学，人文学者无法不注意到科学与技术的重要地位。
“You look at this university’s extraordinary science and technology achievements, and if you wonder what will happen to the humanities, you can be threatened, or you can be invigorated,” said Franco Moretti, the director of the Stanford Literary Lab. “I’m choosing to be invigorated.”
“你看看学校在科学与技术领域取得的卓越成就，如果你再想想人文学科的发展前途，你可以选择感到威胁，或者是感到一种激励，”斯坦福大学文学实验室(Stanford Literary Lab)主任·弗兰科·莫雷蒂(Franco Moretti)说。“我选择受到激励。”
At Stanford, digital humanities get some of that vigor: In “Teaching Classics in the Digital Age,” graduate students use Rap Genius, a popular website for annotating lyrics from rappers like Jay-Z and Eminem, to annotate Homer and Virgil. In a Literary Lab project on 18th-century novels, English students study a database of nearly 2,000 early books to tease out when “romances,” “tales” and “histories” first emerged as novels, and what the different terms signified. And in “Introduction to Critical Text Mining,” English, history and computer majors use R software to break texts into chunks to analyze novels and Supreme Court rulings.
在斯坦福大学，数字人文学就受到了激励：在“数字时代的古典文学教学”(Teaching Classics in the Digital Age)课程中，研究生利用广受欢迎的歌词注释网站Rap Genius解释荷马(Homer)和维吉尔(Virgil)的作品，而这个网站通常针对的是Jay-Z、埃米纳姆(Eminem)等说唱歌手的歌曲。文学实验室有一个研究18世纪小说的课题，英语系学生根据一个包含将近2000本早期图书的数据库进行研究，梳理“传奇故事”、“传说”及“历史故事”首次成为长篇小说的时间，以及这些不同名词的含义。在“关键文本挖掘入门”(Introduction to Critical Text Mining)课程中，英语、历史及计算机专业的学生利用R软件将文本分为不同板块，对小说和最高法院(Supreme Court)的裁决书进行分析。
Dan Edelstein, the Stanford professor who ran this summer’s high school program, said that while it is easy to spot the winners at science fairs and robotics competitions, students who excel in humanities get less acclaim and are harder to identify.
负责2013年斯坦福大学暑期高中项目的教授丹·埃德尔斯坦(Dan Edelstein)表示，科学展览及机器人大赛的获胜者很容易受到关注，而擅长人文学的学生则很少受到称赞，也很难被人发现。
“I got the sense from them that it’s not cool to be a nerd in high school, unless you’re a STEM nerd,” he said, using the term for science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
他说，“给我的感觉是，书呆子在高中并不受欢迎，除非你是理工科(STEM)呆子。”STEM学科指的是科学、技术、工程和数学。
True, said Rachel Roberts, one of his summer students.
暑期学生雷切尔·罗伯茨(Rachel Roberts)表示，这是真的。
“I live in Seattle, surrounded by Amazon and Google and Microsoft,” said Ms. Roberts, a history buff. “One of the best things about the program, that made us all breathe a sigh of relief, was being in an environment where no one said: “Oh, you’re interested in humanities? You’ll never get a job.”
“我住在西雅图，周围是亚马逊(Amazon)、谷歌(Google)和微软(Microsoft)，”历史爱好者罗伯茨说。“这个项目让我们松了一口气，最好的一点是，它为我们提供了一个环境，在这里，没人会说，‘天哪，你对人文学科感兴趣？你永远也找不到工作。’”
While humanities majors often have trouble landing their first job, their professors say that over the long term, employers highly value their critical thinking skills.
虽然人文学科的学生在找第一份工作的时候通常会遇到困难，但他们的教授表示，从长期看，雇主们会高度肯定他们的批判性思维技巧。
Parents, even more than students, often focus single-mindedly on employment. Jill Lepore, the chairwoman of Harvard’s history and literature program, tells of one young woman who came to her home, quite enthusiastic, for an event for students interested in the program, and was quickly deluged with messages from her parents. “They kept texting her: leave right now, get out of there, that is a house of pain,” she said.
与学生相比，有更多的家长通常只关注就业。哈佛大学(Harvard University)历史与文学课程的女负责人吉尔·莱波雷(Jill Lepore)提到了一个到她家参加活动的女孩，她非常热情地参与为对该课程感兴趣的学生举办的活动，但她很快就遭受了父母的短信轰炸。莱波雷表示，“他们不断给她发信息：马上离开，离开那儿，那是个火坑。”
Some professors flinch when they hear colleagues talking about the need to prepare students for jobs.
当听到同事们讨论，有必要帮助学生为找工作做准备的时候，有些教授就会感觉不快。
“I think that’s conceding too quickly,” said Mark Edmundson, an English professor at the University of Virginia. “We’re not a feeder for law school; our job is to help students learn to question.”
“我觉得现在认输太早了，”弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)英语教授马克·埃德蒙森说。“我们不是法学院的预科学校，我们的工作是帮助学生学会提出问题。”