In the global marketplace of higher education, the humanities are increasingly threatened by decreased funding and political attacks.
在全球的高等教育市场中，人文学科正面临日益减少的资金与来自政界的攻击所带来的越来越显著的威胁。
Financing for humanities research in the United States has fallen steadily since 2009, and in 2011 was less than half of one percent of the amount dedicated to science and engineering research and development. This trend is echoed globally: According to a report in Research Trends magazine, by Gali Halevi and Judit Bar-Ilan, international arts and humanities funding has been in constant decline since 2009.
自2009年以来，美国人文学科的研究资金一直稳定下降，在2011年降至不到理工科研究与发展研究资金的0.5%。这种趋势是全球性的：由加利·哈勒维(Gali Halevi)与尤迪特·巴依兰(Judit Bar-Ilan)发表在《研究趋势》(Research Trends)杂志上的一篇报道显示，自2009年以后，全球的艺术与人文学科研究资金处于持续下降的境地。
Rosemary G. Feal, executive director of the Modern Language Association of America, says the decline in funding for humanities research in the United States is related both to fiscal emergencies and “the devaluing of the humanities, especially by legislators who themselves have not experienced first-hand the value of studying the humanities.”
罗斯玛丽·费亚尔(Rosemary G. Feal)是美国现代语言协会(Modern Language Association of America)的执行理事，她表示美国人文学科研究资金的减少主要归结于两个因素：财政紧张以及“社会各界，尤其是那些没有亲身体会过人文研究价值的立法者对人文学科价值的低估”。
Last year a task force convened by Gov. Rick Scott of Florida recommended that students majoring in liberal arts and social science subjects should pay higher tuition fees, arguing they were “nonstrategic disciplines.” Reacting against that, an online petition, which more than 2,000 people signed, warned that the differential tuition model would lead “to a decimation of the liberal arts in Florida.”
去年，佛罗里达州州长里克·斯科特(Rick Scott)召集了一个特别工作组，力促让主修人文与社会科学的学生支付更高昂的学费，原因是他认为这些专业属于“非战略性学科”。抗议者们进行了网上请愿，有超过2000人签名，他们警告政府，不同的学费标准可能导致“佛罗里达州人文学科的全面覆灭”。
In March this year, an amendment submitted by Senator Tom Coburn, a Republican from Oklahoma, passed the Senate, limiting the use of National Science Foundation funds for political science research, unless that research promotes “national security or the economic interests of the United States.”
今年3月，美国俄克拉何马州的共和党参议员汤姆·科伯恩(Tom Coburn)向参议院提起修正案，建议美国国家科学基金会(National Science Foundation)减少对政治学研究的资金支持，除非该学科的研究有助于“国家安全或者美国的经济利益”。
This kind of political interference is echoed elsewhere. This year in Australia, Tony Abbott, the newly elected prime minister, promised to “reprioritize” 103 million Australian dollars, or $93.6 million, from research in the humanities into medical research. In a statement, Mr. Abbott’s coalition government singled out four examples of “increasingly ridiculous” research grants including “The God of Hegel’s Post-Kantian Idealism,” and an “Investigation of Sexuality in Islamic Interpretations of Reproductive Health Technologies in Egypt.”
这种政治上的干涉在其他国家也普遍存在。今年，澳大利亚新当选的总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)就作出保证，要将原本属于人文学科的1.03亿澳元（合9360万美元）的研究资金“优先分配”给医学研究。在一份声明中，阿博特的联合政府挑出四个他们看来“越来越可笑”的研究补助金项目，包括“黑格尔的后康德唯心主义之神”，以及“伊斯兰教背景下埃及生殖健康科技中的性学调查”。
Associate Prof. Robert Phiddian, director of the Australasian Consortium of Humanities Research Centers, said that even before Mr. Abbott took office, humanities funding in Australia was in decline. “Humanities departments have seen less and less funding per student for as long as I can remember,” he said in an email.
大洋洲人文研究中心联盟(Australasian Consortium of Humanities Research Centers)主管罗伯特·菲蒂恩(Robert Phiddian)副教授认为，甚至在阿博特上任之前，澳大利亚的人文研究资金就已经在减少了。“据我所知，人文专业中每位学生平均能得到的研究资金越来越少，”他在电子邮件中这样说道。
In Britain, at an undergraduate level, government funding for humanities teaching has been pulled. “From 2011 direct government funding for humanities provision has been withdrawn entirely, and replaced by tuition fees, backed up by government loans,” said Robin Jackson, chief executive of the British Academy for the Humanities and Social Sciences. “The move has been highly controversial: some have seen it as an expression of lack of respect for the value of these subjects.”
在英国，在本科阶段，政府对为人文学科教学拨款一直缺乏热情。“从2011年起，政府对人文学科的直接拨款全部被收回了，取而代之的是学费收入，政府贷款则作为后备资金，”英国人文社会科学院(British Academy for the Humanities and Social Sciences)的执行院长罗宾·杰克逊(Robin Jackson)说，“这一举措引起了极大争议：有些人将其视为对这些学科的价值缺少尊重的表现。”
“Postgraduate study is now seen as a sensitive area, where enrollments might be depressed by students with debt from undergraduate study,” Dr. Jackson said. “There is almost no government funding for masters-level programs in the humanities, although leading universities are shifting towards providing Ph.D. bursaries.”
“研究生阶段的学习现在被视为一个敏感地带，申请读研的人数可能会因为不少学生在本科阶段欠下债务而减少，”杰克逊说，“人文学科硕士项目几乎得不到任何政府的拨款，而那些名校正在转而提供公费博士项目。”
According to Prof. Homi K. Bhabha, director of the Mahindra Humanities Center at Harvard University, “the humanities are facing serious challenges in both developed and developing countries.”
哈佛大学(Harvard University)马辛德拉人文中心(Mahindra Humanities Center at Harvard University)主任霍米·巴巴(Homi Bhabha)表示：“不管在发达国家还是发展中国家，人文学科都面临着严峻的挑战。”
“In India for example the humanities are more or less dead, and professional schools and the study of business and technology are in the ascendant,” Professor Bhabha said.
“比如说在印度，人文学科差不多已经消亡了，职业学校以及商科与技术专业正大当其道，”巴巴教授说。
Some academics are calling for humanities researchers to become stronger advocates of their work. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences said in a report released this year on the humanities: “At a time when economic anxiety is driving the public toward a narrow concept of education focused on short-term payoffs, it is imperative that colleges, universities, and their supporters make a clear and convincing case for the value of liberal arts education.”
有些学校在呼吁人文学者更有力地宣传他们工作的价值。美国艺术与科学院(American Academy of Arts and Sciences)在今年发表的有关人文学科的一份报告中说：“在当下，经济带来的焦虑正驱使着公众朝一个狭窄的教育理念走下去，想要寻求在短时间内得到收益回报，高等院校及其支持者的当务之急，是要清楚并且有信服力地让人们明白文科教育的价值所在。”
A report this year from Harvard University, “Mapping the Future,” found that from 1966 to 2010, the percentage of students following courses concentrated on the humanities halved in the United States.
哈佛大学在今年发布的《描绘未来》(Mapping the Future)报告中指出，在1966至2010年间，美国人文学科学生的比例降低了一半。
After the release of the report, many academics pointed out that the major drop in numbers occurred in the 1970s. “I can tell you that humanities enrollments in the United States have not declined since 1980, even though everyone thinks they have,” Prof. Michael Bérubé, director of the Institute for the Arts and Humanities at Pennsylvania State University, wrote in an email.
在报告发布之后，许多学校指出文科学生人数的大幅下降其实发生在上世纪70年代。“我可以告诉你，美国人文学科的入学人数自1980年之后没有下降，即使每个人都有这种错觉，”宾夕法尼亚州立大学(Pennsylvania State University)艺术与人文研究所教授迈克尔·博鲁(Michael Bérubé)在电子邮件中写道。
He added, however, that opponents of spending on humanities studies “use that fictitious decline to further delegitimize humanities research.”
但他进一步补充说，那些反对给人文学科拨款的人“利用这种不实数据来进一步对人文研究提出质疑”。
Student enrollment in the humanities has also remained stable across the globe, relative to total enrollment numbers. “Some places — Germany, Mexico, the Netherlands, and Turkey — have seen a substantial increase in the relative number of humanities degrees,” said Assistant Prof. Ben Schmidt at Northeastern University.
在全球范围内，相对于总的学生注册人数，人文学科的学生人数也保持着相对稳定。“有些地方——德国、墨西哥、荷兰和土耳其——在人文学科学位的授予数量上都有大量增长，”美国东北大学(Northeastern University)助理教授本·施密特(Ben Schmidt)表示。
Others, including the United States and Britain, had seen almost no change, he said, while some — including Japan, Australia, South Korea, Italy, and France — had seen a relative decline of about 25 percent. “But those declines have occurred in the context of growing higher education systems,” he said. “Only in France and Japan has there been an absolute decline.”
他指出，在其他国家，包括美国与英国，几乎没什么变化，而在有些国家——包括日本、澳大利亚、韩国、意大利以及法国——人文学科的学位授予数量相对下降了大约25%。“但是这些现象都发生在正在发展变化中的高等教育体系的社会语境中，”他说，“只有在法国与日本才出现了总数绝对下降。”
Many academics find the attacks on the humanities confusing. “I’ve been working in the humanities for close to 40 years, and I don’t remember a time in which there wasn’t some degree of ridicule for our projects,” Ms. Feal said. “This continues to puzzle me, because we don’t hear parallel criticisms of projects in the sciences whose terminology and focus are also unintelligible to nonspecialists, and whose utility may not make itself apparent to a general public.”
很多学者对于那些攻击人文学科的声音感到困惑。“我在人文学科领域已经工作了差不多40年，我们的研究项目一直或多或少存在某种程度上的可笑之处，”费亚尔说，“这让我觉得奇怪，因为科学领域里，有些项目的专业术语和关注点同样会让外行人感到莫名其妙，它们的成果在公众看来也可能没有显著的功用，但我们从来没有听到对于它们有什么类似的批评。”
“People must think about the contribution the humanities make to the world and society,” Professor Bhabha said. “If you consider the value of the humanities to the cultural sector, for example, I don’t think people can make the rather closed-minded arguments that they make about the utility of the humanities and its contributions.”
“人们必须思考人文学科对世界以及社会做出的贡献，”巴巴教授说，“比如说，如果你考虑一下人文学科对于文化领域的价值，我不觉得他们还会对人文学科的作用以及它的贡献依旧闭目塞听。”
“The humanities raise issues about equity and well-being,” he said. “They raise issues about the quality of life. These issues are at the heart of the sciences, social sciences, and business and technology.”
“人文学科提出的问题与公正、幸福有关，”他说，“它们所研究的是生命的质量，而这些议题是所有科学、社会科学、经济学以及科技的核心。”
The humanities deal with questions that everyone understands, said Pierre Force, dean of humanities at Columbia University in New York. “This is a vulnerability, but it is also a strength. Ultimately, the humanities are about understanding what it is to be human. They should therefore be everyone’s concern.”
位于纽约的哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)人文学院院长皮尔斯·福斯(Pierre Force)说，人文学科所涉及的问题是每个人都理解的。“这是它的弱点，但同时也是优点。说到底，人文学科与如何理解人有关。因此每个人都应该关注它们。”