When China’s currency, the renminbi, fell against the dollar on Aug. 11, it set off a furor.
中国货币人民币8月11日对美元贬值，引起了轩然大波。
Stock and commodities markets have shuddered around the world, and many traders feared that China had begun a sharp and dangerous devaluation — a salvo in a “beggar thy neighbor” currency war, in which countries would seek competitive advantage by making their goods cheaper in global markets.
全球股市和大宗商品市场都受到冲击，许多交易员担心，中国启动了一波危险的大幅贬值行动。在“以邻为壑”的汇率战争中，这是一轮猛烈的炮火。在这种局面下，各国争相贬值货币，从而压低本国商品在全球市场上的价格，进而取得竞争优势。
That could turn out to be true, of course. Countries like Kazakhstan and Vietnam have devalued their currencies as well, and many emerging-market currencies have been dropping. But there is another way to interpret what happened in China. And while it may seem counterintuitive, I think it’s equally valid.
当然，这可能会是真的。哈萨克斯坦和越南等国也贬值了本国货币，而且许多新兴市场国家的汇率也在下跌。然而，中国发生的事情，还有另外一种解读方式。尽管似乎与直观感受相悖，但我认为它也同样成立。
China did not devalue its currency sharply, and it has not embraced a currency war, at least not so far. What it has done is make very modest adjustments both in the value of its currency and in the manner in which it trades. Those moves continue an agonizingly slow process that has been underway for more than 35 years. They are a small but important part of China’s transformation into a modern nation.
中国并没有让本国货币急剧贬值，也没有掀起汇率战争，至少目前还没有。中国所做的事情是，对本国货币的汇率，以及它在外汇市场上的交易方式，做出了十分有限的调整。这样的举动延续了过去超过35年的时间里，一直在以慢到发疯的步伐持续进行的过程。这是中国向现代国家转型的过程中，一个微小但重要的步骤。
But there are specific reasons for the timing of this latest Chinese move. One runs counter to a commonly held assumption in the United States: that China has been manipulating its currency by making it artificially cheap. The markets have been saying that the opposite is true — that the renminbi was, and still is, not cheap enough.
不过，中国最近采取这一举动的时机，却有着明确的原因。其中一个原因，截然不同于美国广为接受的观念：中国一直在操纵本国货币，人为压低汇率。市场趋势一直显示，真实的情形恰恰相反，无论过去还是现在，人民币的汇率都还不够低。
It has not fallen more sharply because Chinese authorities have prevented it from doing so. Over the last week they have stemmed the tide of the markets to keep the renminbi, also known as the yuan, from falling more steeply.
人民币贬值的幅度之所以没有更大，是因为中国官方采取了限制。过去一周，官方一直在抵御市场的浪潮，避免让人民币汇率的下跌更为剧烈。
The numbers tell the story — and it is not one of precipitate decline in the renminbi, at least not yet. To the contrary, the renminbi has dropped less than 3 percent against the dollar since the close of trading on Aug. 10. The next day, China announced a technical change in its rules, saying market forces would begin to play a bigger role in renminbi price-setting. In addition, it set the renminbi less than 2 percent lower against the dollar. The currency’s declines over the next two days were smaller.
数字反映了现实——而现在的情况并不属于人民币匆促贬值，至少目前还不是。相反，自8月10日收市，人民币兑美元的汇率下跌了不到3%。次日，中国宣布在规则上作出技术性调整，指称市场力量将在人民币的汇率机制上发挥更大的作用。此外，央行将人民币兑美元的官方汇率调低了不到2%。人民币的跌势在接下来的两天较小。
By Aug. 14, the Chinese central bank’s intention of stabilizing the renminbi became clearer, and the currency started to flat-line on the foreign-exchange charts. Since then, it has not been plummeting, as many people had feared. It has been one of the best performers among emerging-market currencies, rising slightly against the dollar. Even including the first days of decline, it has outperformed many currencies, including the Russian ruble, which is down 9 percent, and the Colombian peso, down more than 6 percent, according to Bloomberg data.
截至8月14日，中国央行稳定人民币的意图变得更为明显，人民币在外汇图表上的走势开始持平。自那以后，它并没有如许多人忧虑的那样一直暴跌。人民币是表现最好的新兴市场货币之一，兑美元的汇率一直小幅上涨。即使算上开始下跌的这些天，它的表现仍然胜过了很多货币。根据彭博社(Bloomberg)的数据，这包括了对美元的跌幅为9%的俄罗斯卢布，和跌幅超过6%的哥伦比亚比索。
That said, the renminbi’s fall on Aug. 11 was significant. Small as the currency’s drop may have been, it startled the markets partly because it was the biggest one-day change in the currency in 20 years. China made some really big changes in its foreign-exchange system back then — changes that dwarf what has just occurred.
虽说如此，人民币在8月11日的下跌仍是举足轻重。尽管跌幅可谓很小，市场却为之震惊，这有部分是因为它是人民币20年来最大的单日波动。当年，中国在外汇制度上作出了一些重大改革，而那次带来的改变之大是刚刚的调整不能相提并论的。
Consider that at the start of 1994, China effectively devalued the renminbi by 33 percent — yet that truly sharp decline had scarcely any effect on global markets. While trade frictions with the United States had already flared up by then, China was relatively unimportant in world finance, and the renminbi was not a major currency.
回想1994年初，中国令人民币实际贬值33%。那次虽然是真正的大幅下跌，却几乎没有对全球市场产生任何影响。尽管当时中美之间的贸易摩擦已经爆发，但中国在世界金融体系中相对并不重要，人民币也不是主要货币。
Until the 1994 overhaul, China had two official foreign-exchange systems with confusingly different rates — an unfavorable one for foreigners and a better one for qualified Chinese enterprises. It also had a thriving black market and lots of corruption.
在1994年的改革之前，中国有两套官方外汇制度，以令人困惑的不同汇率计算——一种针对外国人，汇率不利，另一种则针对合乎资格的中国企业，汇率有利。当时也存在着猖獗的黑市和大量的贪腐活动。
As part of the changes, China unified the two official foreign-exchange systems, setting the rate for foreigners at roughly the same level used internally by Chinese enterprises on swap markets. Those were critically important steps in China’s evolution.
作为改革的一部分，中国统一了这两套官方外汇制度，在对外国人和对国企使用的内部掉期市场上，设置了大致相同的汇率。这些对中国的发展来说是非常重要的步骤。
But they were just intermediate steps. So were the ones taken this month, disturbing though they may be for international markets. The recent brouhaha is an indication of how little China has done to free up its currency over the last 20 years, and how much still needs to be done.
不过，它们还只是中间步骤。这个月作出的调整，尽管可能引起了国际市场的不安，也同样只是中间步骤而已。最近的这场震动既反映了过去20年间中国在开放货币方面的作为之有限，也反映了有多少事情仍需中国去做。
The International Monetary Fund has responded to China’s latest measures cautiously, indicating that they are not yet enough to give the renminbi the enhanced stature that China desires: an elite currency, ranked along with the dollar, the euro and the yen. The I.M.F. last week deferred that particular seal of approval, deciding not to include the renminbi in its so-called Special Drawing Rights basket, which would add to the renminbi’s international luster, until at least next year.
国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)就中国的这轮最新措施作出了谨慎的回应，指出它们还不足以把人民币提高到中国希望的地位：成为与美元、欧元和日元并列的精英货币。上周，国际货币基金组织延迟给予人民币这种认可，决定不把它纳入“特别提款权”货币篮子。加入这个货币篮子将增加人民币在国际上的光环，但它至少得等到明年。
Aside from its long-term goal of achieving greater global status, China had domestic reasons for taking action on Aug 11. Its stock market has fallen, its exports have flagged, and its economy is undergoing restructuring. China’s cabinet last month asked that the renminbi be included in the mix of solutions.
除了提高国际地位这个长远目标，中国在8月11日采取的行动还考虑了国内的一些因素。中国股市持续下跌，产品出口疲软，经济正处于重整状态。上月，国务院要求把人民币汇率问题列入解决方案中。
That brings us to the timing of the central bank, which continues to exert a great deal of control over China’s exchange rate. It chose a very interesting moment to act. This is why: Over the last year, the numbers show, the renminbi has been a sidekick of the dollar, rising in strength as the dollar has moved higher.
这就说到了央行此番行动的时机。央行在控制人民币汇率上仍然有着很大的影响力，而它选择了在一个非常有意思的时间点来采取行动。原因在于：数据显示，在过去一年间，人民币一直是美元的伙伴，随着美元走强而不断增值。
The central bank’s own rigid foreign-exchange rules helped make this happen. The bank stabilized the renminbi by restricting its movement: It enforced a tight trading range against the dollar, and so the renminbi essentially did what the dollar did. One result is that even including the recent devaluation, the renminbi has fared better against the dollar than every major currency that is freely traded.
央行严格的外汇规则协助造就了这一局面。人民币得以稳定，是因为央行对其波动的限制：严格限制兑美元汇率的交易区间，使得人民币基本上跟随美元的走势。此举的其中一个成果就是，尽管近期贬值，但比起其他自由买卖的任何一种主要货币，人民币对美元的表现还是更佳。
That has made Chinese goods more expensive on world markets, and it helps explain why there was such alarm when China devalued its currency. At this stage, though, the decline in the renminbi’s value seems to have been carefully calibrated. It is too small to have helped China much with its exports, and not large enough to set off much additional capital flight by people afraid that their renminbi assets will depreciate in a currency decline.
这让中国商品的价格在世界市场上变得更昂贵，还解释了为何当中国货币贬值的时候，外界会如此忧虑。不过在现阶段，人民币的贬值似乎经过了谨慎权衡。此次下调的幅度较小，对中国出口的情况帮助不大，亦不足以引起大众对人民币资产会随货币贬值的恐慌，从而引发大量额外的资本外逃。
Still, the central bank’s move might help stave off domestic political pressure and improve China’s standing with bodies like the I.M.F. And because the markets have clearly been pushing the renminbi downward, the timing is useful in diplomacy with the United States, which will have difficulty arguing now that the renminbi’s price has been set too low. Under current conditions, if China’s central bank stops intervening, the renminbi might well fall sharply.
话虽如此，央行的行动仍可能有助于暂时抵挡国内的政治压力，并提高中国在国际货币基金组织等机构中的地位。正因为市场在明显地打压人民币，央行在此时的行动对于与美国的外交来说不无裨益，因为如此一来，美国便难以指责人民币价格定得太低。在目前的状况下，要是中国的央行停止干预，人民币很可能会暴跌。
“What China has done is very astute,” said Eswar S. Prasad, the former head of the I.M.F.’s China division, and now an economist at Cornell and the Brookings Institution. “The People’s Bank of China has managed to pull off a reform that is important to them and to do it in a way that allows them to mollify domestic critics and stave off criticism from international investors.”
“中国的行动非常精明，”埃斯瓦尔·S·普拉萨德(Eswar S. Prasad)说。他是国际货币基金组织的中国事务前主管，现时在康奈尔大学和布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)任职经济学者。“中国人民银行设法完成了对他们而言很重要的一项改革，而且是以能够安抚国内批评者和避开国际投资者谴责的方式进行的。”