HONG KONG — As President Obama visits Asia in a bid to shore up American alliances, he faces an emerging challenge from the region’s behemoth, China, whose currency has experienced a gradual but unrelenting decline over the last 10 days.
香港——就在奥巴马总统为了支持美国盟友，开启亚洲之旅的时候，他面临来自亚洲大国——中国的日益凸显的挑战。过去10天中，中国货币在持续、平缓地贬值。
The fall of the renminbi, which on Friday hit its lowest point since late 2012, is making Chinese exports cheaper in the United States and elsewhere. But the drop is also making it harder for foreign companies to compete in China and other markets where Chinese exporters have a significant presence.
周五，人民币汇率跌至2012年底以来的最低点，人民币贬值促使美国及其他地方出售的中国出口产品的价格下降。但这还致使外国公司更难在中国及中国出口企业占重要地位的其他市场开展竞争。
The currency’s weakness helps create jobs and limit unemployment in China — two of the leadership’s stated top goals for the year. But the fall of the currency, which is down 3.3 percent against the dollar since the beginning of this year, also risks hurting employment in other countries and fanning trade tensions.
人民币走弱有助于创造就业机会，限制中国的失业率——中国领导层今年的两大目标。人民币兑美元的汇率自今年年初以来下降了3.3%，人民币贬值也可能会影响其他国家的就业情况，引发贸易紧张状况。
The Obama administration, like the administration of George W. Bush before it, has long put pressure on China to allow faster appreciation, and it has found itself in an awkward position this spring as the currency has begun to move in the opposite direction. The Treasury Department warned on April 15 that the decline in the renminbi’s value “would raise particularly serious concerns” if it meant that China was continuing to intervene and retreating from its policy of allowing the free market to determine the exchange rate.
奥巴马政府与之前乔治·W·布什总统(George W. Bush)领导的政府一样，一直在给中国施压，要求中国允许人民币以更快速度升值。今春，人民币开始贬值，奥巴马政府发现自己的处境非常尴尬。4月15日，美国财政部警告称，如果人民币贬值意味着中国继续进行干预，允许自由市场决定汇率的政策出现倒退，这“会引起非常严重的关切”。
President Obama and the Treasury have been silent on the Chinese currency during the president’s trip this week. He has already visited Japan and South Korea and plans to make stops in Malaysia and the Philippines.
在本周的亚洲之行中，奥巴马总统与美国财政部没有提及人民币问题。奥巴马已经访问了日本和韩国，还计划在马来西亚和菲律宾停留。
The big mystery lies in how much of the latest decline in the value of the renminbi reflects policy decisions and how much is the result of market worries about slowing economic growth.
谜团在于最近人民币的下滑在多大程度上反映了中国的政府决策，又在多大程度上是由市场对经济增长放缓的担忧导致的。
The slide began at the beginning of the year, when the People’s Bank of China, the country’s central bank, unexpectedly began reducing the midpoint for the renminbi’s daily trading range. The bank set off the latest drop when it again began to push the midpoint slightly lower on most of the trading days from April 14 through last Tuesday. On Friday, the rate was 6.25 renminbi to the dollar.
今年年初，中国央行——中国人民银行出人意料地开始下调人民币每日交易区间的中间价，人民币汇率由此开始下滑。从4月14日到上周二的大多数交易日，中国人民银行再次开始推动中间价轻微下调，引发了最新的下跌趋势。周五，人民币兑美元的汇率为6.25。
Tiny downward changes in the midpoint caused an exaggerated response in the market. The renminbi fell further and further toward the bottom of the allowable range. Those market declines have continued even as the central bank authorized extremely small daily strengthening of the midpoint on each of the last three days.
中间价的细微下调引发了市场的过度反应。人民币不断贬值，接近允许范围的底限。即便中国央行在过去三天允许每日的中间价出现极小幅的上调，市场仍然继续下挫。
“While we believe the initial moves have been guided by policy makers, the depreciation has gotten a life of its own in recent weeks,” said Tao Wang, head of China economic research at UBS.
瑞银(UBS)中国经济研究主管汪涛说，“虽然我们认为最初的变动受到决策者引导，但最近几周，贬值趋势开始自主发展。”
Official figures show that the central bank spent an average of $2 billion each trading day over the 12-month period ending on March 31 to buy foreign currencies and sell renminbi. This prevented the renminbi from rising and, more recently, helped weaken it.
官方数据显示，在过去一年（截至3月31日）的每个交易日，中国央行平均花费20亿美元（约合125亿元人民币）购买外国货币，出售人民币。这一举措阻止了人民币的升值，并于最近在一定程度上推动了人民币的贬值。
China had almost $3.95 trillion in foreign reserves at the end of March. So the central bank has had the power to halt practically any fall in the renminbi that attracts official disapproval.
截至3月底，中国拥有近3.95万亿美元的外汇储备。因此，如果官方反对人民币贬值，中国央行完全拥有阻止人民币出现任何下滑的实力。
A weaker currency has been welcomed by Chinese exporters.
人民币贬值受到了中国出口商的欢迎。
After stagnating in previous years, the number of overseas buyers at the last week’s Canton Fair, the country’s main trade show for exporters, jumped 10 percent from a year ago. One of the 24,581 exhibitors at the vast exhibition this year, Yan Xiaowei, said the fall of the renminbi had contributed to a spate of requests from interested foreign buyers for price quotes.
在持续几年的停滞之后，上周的广交会上，外国买家的数量较去年增长了10%。广交会是中国针对出口商的大型商品交易会。在今年庞大的展会上，共有24581名参展商。参展商严晓伟（音译）说，人民币贬值引发了一大批有兴趣的外国买家的报价请求。
Mr. Yan, the general manager of Yunfu Citistone Manufactory, a maker of decorative tiles and wash basins located in Yunfu, a city in southern China’s Guangdong province, said he had resisted cutting prices even as each dollar in export revenue covered more renminbi of his costs.
严晓伟是云浮市实长隆石业有限公司的总经理，该公司生产装饰瓷砖和水槽，位于中国南部广东省的云浮市。他说，他拒绝降价，尽管出口营收中的每一美元抵消了更多人民币成本。
“The depreciation has helped our bottom line, and with our increased profits, we have been able to stock a better selection of stones,” he said in a telephone interview on Friday.
他周五在电话采访中说，“人民币贬值有助于我们提高利润，由于利润的增加，我们能够选择更好的石材。”
But China is facing persistent concerns about its broader economy.
但中国正面临着有关其更广大经济领域的持续担忧。
The Hong Kong stock market dropped 1.5 percent on Friday, and an index of the Shanghai and Shenzhen markets fell 1 percent on worries about the Chinese economy. Year-over-year growth slowed to 7.4 percent in the first quarter, according to official figures, and many economists and business executives say actual growth may be much weaker.
由于对中国经济的担忧，香港股市周五下跌了1.5%，与上海和深圳股市相关的一个股指则下跌了1%。根据官方数据，中国经济第一季度的同比增长降至7.4%，许多经济学家和企业高管说，实际增长可能要弱得多。
Housing starts and the number of real estate transactions have dropped as buyers hold out for lower prices after a construction boom. But only a few real estate developers have been willing to brave the wrath of earlier purchasers and cut prices for unsold units in apartment towers.
由于建筑业热潮后买家持币观望，等待房屋降价，新楼盘开工量和房地产交易数据都有所下降。但只有少数房地产商愿意面对早些时候购房的人们的不满，降价销售公寓大楼中未售出的房屋。
Officially recorded unemployment edged down to 4.08 percent in the first quarter from 4.1 percent at the end of 2013, the labor ministry announced on Friday. But actual unemployment is considerably higher, particularly among recent college graduates, who have struggled to find work in an economy that still emphasizes blue-collar sectors like manufacturing and construction.
周五，中国人力资源和社会保障部称，官方录得的失业率第一季度下降到4.08%，2013年底为4.1%。但实际失业率比这要高得多，尤其是大学毕业生的失业率。由于中国经济仍然重视制造业和建筑业等蓝领行业，大学毕业生很难找到工作。
The economic picture has raised worries that China may reverse course on its overhaul efforts in order to stimulate growth. But officials, at least publicly, have expressed their commitment to economic change.
这种经济形势引发了一些担忧，即为了刺激增长，中国的整体改革可能会逆转方向。但中国官员们至少已在公开场合表达了致力于经济改革的决心。
“Exchange rate reform will continue,” Yi Gang, a deputy governor of the country’s central bank, said at an International Monetary Fund meeting on April 12. That seemed to be a reference partly to China’s gradual widening of the trading band in recent years, including again last month. But he did not address the value of the renminbi.
4月12日，中国央行副行长易纲在国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的一个会议上说，“中国将继续推进汇率市场化改革。”一定程度上，这似乎指的是中国最近几年不断扩大的人民币交易区间，包括上个月的一次扩大举措。但他没有提到人民币汇率问题。