HONG KONG — Mainland Chinese stock markets unexpectedly slumped again on Tuesday, with the Shanghai market plunging by 6.2 percent.
香港——本周二，中国大陆股市出人意料地再次暴跌，沪市跌幅达6.2%。
Following a yearlong boom, stocks have been volatile of late, prompting aggressive action by the government to help stabilize the market. There was no obvious catalyst for the drop in stocks on Tuesday.
经过持续一年的上涨，中国股市近来的波动较为严重，因此政府采取了激进的托市措施。本周二的股市暴跌没有明显的催化事件。
The sudden drop on Tuesday came just one week after China sent a jolt through global financial markets with a surprise devaluation of its currency, the renminbi, in an attempt to reinvigorate the country’s exports. The state intervention in mainland stocks and currency markets has raised concerns that China’s economy could be in worse shape than official data suggests.
上周中国才在全球金融市场引起了一次震动，对人民币进行贬值以求为该国的出口注入活力，本周二股市就突然出现这样的下挫。政府对内地股市和货币市场的干预已经引起了一些人的担忧，他们觉得，中国的经济可能比官方数据显示的更加糟糕。
Trading volumes in Shanghai and Shenzhen have been relatively light since early July, when the government introduced several remarkable measures in an attempt to support plunging share prices. Those included ordering government agencies to buy stocks with funding from state banks and preventing shareholders who own more than 5 percent of a company’s stock from selling.
自从政府7月初推出了一些力度较大的托市措施以来，沪深两市一直交投清淡。这些措施包括政府机构用国有银行的资金买股票，禁止拥有5%以上股份的股东出售股票等。
Despite the moves, the markets have been shaky. On July 27, stocks in Shanghai dropped 8.5 percent, which was the market’s biggest daily drop in eight years.
尽管采取了这些措施，市场仍然摇摇欲坠。7月27日，上证指数暴跌8.5%，创下八年来沪市最大单日跌幅。
The Shanghai index closed Tuesday at 3,748.16 points — 7 percent above the low it reached on July 8, before the state’s market rescue efforts began to kick in. The market is down more than a quarter from its peak in mid-June.
本周二，上证指数报收3748.16点——比7月8日政府救市举措开始见效之前出现的低点高出7%。沪市跌幅超过了6月中旬峰值时的四分之一。
Xinhua, the Chinese state-owned news agency, wrote on Twitter that investors were “in stampede again!” The agency noted that shares in about 1,000 companies fell by the 10 percent daily limit, and the post was accompanied by an illustration of a giant hand dangling the grim reaper over a group of people heading for an exit.
中国官方新闻机构新华社在Twitter上写道，投资者“再度陷入恐慌！”新华社称，大约1000家公司的股价下跌10%至跌停，帖子的配图是一群人走向出口，他们的头顶有一只拎着死神的大手。
The stock market sell-off came as new signs showed that volatility was creeping back into China’s currency markets. The central bank, the People’s Bank of China, pushed its official setting for the renminbi’s exchange rate 4.4 percent lower last week — the currency’s biggest drop since 1994.
有新的迹象表明，中国货币市场正在重新陷入波动，股市随之出现了这次抛售。上周，央行中国人民银行推动其官方设定的人民币汇率下跌了4.4%，创下1994年以来人民币的最大降幅。
The renminbi stabilized on Friday and Monday, when its value barely budged in flat trading. On Tuesday, the currency seesawed between gains and losses before closing up 0.01 percent, nearly unchanged from Monday, at 6.394 per dollar.
上周五和本周一，人民币表现稳定，汇率基本保持不变。本周二时涨时跌，最后收涨0.01%，至1美元兑换6.394元人民币，与周一大致持平。
There are, however, also signs that several government stimulus efforts — including interest rate cuts and targeted loans for infrastructure and other favored projects — are starting to take effect.
但是也有迹象表明，政府采取的一些刺激措施开始生效，这些措施包括降息和针对基础设施和其他扶持性项目提供贷款。
Figures released on Tuesday showed more tentative signs of a rebound in the property market. New home prices in 70 major cities fell 5.4 percent in July compared with a year earlier, according to calculations from Bloomberg based on official data. But they increased by 0.2 percent from June, the third month in a row of consecutive improvement.
本周二公布的数据更多地显示了房地产市场反弹的初步迹象。彭博社根据官方数据进行的计算表明，与上年同期相比，今年7月中国70个大中城市的新房价格下降了5.4%。但是比6月上涨了0.2%，这是连续第三个月出现上涨。