WHEN the social scientist James R. Flynn started analyzing more than 50 years’ worth of I.Q. scores, he noticed something peculiar. On tests that assessed vocabulary used in everyday life, adults showed enormous gains — nearly 18 points. That made sense. Many more people attend college and work in professions now than in 1950. But when he examined children’s scores, he was surprised by how far behind they lagged. Usually facility with words trickles down; children hear and absorb parents’ expanded vocabulary and discussions. But that hadn’t happened. Children’s I.Q. showed only a 4.4 percent gain.
当社会学家詹姆斯·R·弗林(James R. Flynn)开始研究近50多年来的人类智商数据时，他发现了一些奇怪的现象。成年人在日常词汇测试上取得近18%的显著增长，这可以理解，因为相比1950年，如今有越来越多的人接受大学教育并从事专业工作。但当他审视儿童的分数变化时，其落后差距之大令他着实感到震惊。儿童通常从日常点滴中获得词汇，并且能从家长丰富的词汇量和讨论中听取并吸收进去。然而事与愿违，儿童智商在这50年里仅增长了4.4%。
“I.Q. gains over time pose interesting questions about American society,” Mr. Flynn said, speaking from his home in Otago, New Zealand, “and this is one of the most interesting.”
“智商随时间的增长折射出美国社会一些有趣的问题”，弗林在他新西兰奥塔戈岛上的家中说，“这一点非常有意思。”
Mr. Flynn is accustomed to puzzling questions. After uncovering one of the most intriguing mysteries surrounding intelligence research — that each generation has significantly higher I.Q. scores than the previous one — he has spent more than 25 years trying to explain why.
弗林已习惯刨根问底，他解开了“每代人的智商都比上代人有显著增长”这个在智力研究领域里最引人入胜的谜题，并在随后超过25年的时间里一直试图阐明其原因。
The reason, Mr. Flynn says, is not that the human brain suddenly and rapidly evolved. Rather, with modernization, we have come to look at the world through what he calls “scientific spectacles.” We now reflexively organize information into abstract categories and discern complex relationships between concepts — the very skills that intelligence tests assess. The average 30-point rise in scores during the past century is now known as the Flynn effect.
弗林解释道，这一现象并非源于人类大脑突然、迅速的进化，而是因为随着现代化进程，我们开始透过“科学眼镜”看世界。人类如今在辨识信息时条件反射地将其归入抽象范畴，同时厘清不同概念之间的复杂关系——这一技能已得到了智力测试的验证。智商在过去的一个世纪里平均增长30个百分点的现象如今被称作“弗林效应”。
Mr. Flynn revisits this groundbreaking work in his new book, “Are We Getting Smarter? Rising IQ in the Twenty-First Century,” as well as in more recent research on I.Q. gains for women and for populations in the developing world. In findings announced this summer, Mr. Flynn showed that women for the first time had pulled ahead of men, possibly a result of the more demanding roles women have assumed as they juggle family and jobs, and their increased access to higher education.
弗林在他的新书《我们变聪明了吗？21世纪人类智商增长》(Are We Getting Smarter? Rising IQ in the Twenty-First Century)中重提了这个开创性的话题。书中还提到了近来对女性和发展中国家智商增长所做的调查。在今年夏天公布的研究结果中，弗林表示女性智商增幅首次超过了男性，其原因可能在于女性受教育水平的提高以及女性付出的增加，因为她们需要兼顾家庭和工作。
Of course, I.Q. testing remains a contentious area of social science. But Mr. Flynn’s research shows that whatever it is an I.Q. test measures, scores are mutable. He resists the current fashion of seeking genetic explanations for the data. Whether talking about gender or race, he insists, gains show that I.Q. differences are not biological but social and cultural. “Brain physiology has a fascination that tempts us to forget all we know about human behavior on the personal and social level,” he writes.
当然，智商测试目前在社会科学领域仍存争议，但弗林的研究显示，不管智商测试重点是测哪方面，结果都是不稳定的。他反对现在试图从基因中寻找答案的潮流。他坚持认为，不管是性别或者种族，智商增长结果的差别和生物学无关，只关乎社会和文化。“脑生理学具有迷惑性，它会让我们淡忘个人和社会层面上固有的人类行为，”他写道。
Thus, it is not surprising that culture is where Mr. Flynn looks to explain the vocabulary gap between parents and their children. Mr. Flynn analyzed results from two widely used I.Q. tests. On the sections designed to evaluate math, adults improved only slightly more than children between 1950 and 2005 — a testament to what Mr. Flynn maintains is the failure of the educational system to make people of any age comfortable with numbers. But on “active vocabulary” — words you might call up to use in everyday conversation, rather than those you would have to see in context to recognize — adults bounded ahead. Contrary to expectations, younger respondents failed to keep up.
因此，这就不难理解为什么弗林希望从文化角度解释父母和子女间的词汇差距。弗林研究了两项主流智商测试结果，1950年到2005年间，成年人在数学这部分的进步仅微弱领先于儿童。关于这一结果，他认为是教育体制的问题，因为教育未能引发各个年龄层的人对数字的兴趣。不过在“主动词汇”——那些你可能在日常对话中用到，且无需上下文就能理解的单词——这一类目中，成年人遥遥领先。和预期相反，接受测试的青少年没能跟上。
Mr. Flynn has a theory: that since the 1950s, when adolescence began to emerge as a distinct culture, generations of teenagers increasingly segregated themselves from the adult world. “Who would have thought that child and teenage subcultures would have become so powerful and inward looking as to keep them from being socialized” into the linguistic mainstream, Mr. Flynn said. “Even younger children seem somehow more culturally distant from their parents.” He notes that children read and write less, and thanks to texting are more accustomed to spelling phonetically.
弗林的理论是：从20世纪50年代起，青春期开始成为独特的文化，一代又一代的年轻人逐渐脱离出了成人的阵营。“谁曾想到青少年亚文化能变得如此强大，并能通过内向型发展来排斥融入”社会主流语汇，弗林说，“就算是年龄更小的孩子，他们与父母之间的文化差距似乎也在扩大。”他指出，儿童读写减少，相较于拼写发音，他们更习惯于打字。
The good news is that differences in I.Q.’s disappeared once children reached adulthood and entered the working world. The gap’s rate of increase also began to slow in 1995. After all, relations between the generations were much more strained in the late ’60s and ’70s. The proliferation today of Skype and cellphoneshas brought generations closer. Just look at helicopter parents.
好消息是，一旦当孩子长大成人进入职场后，智商差距就消失了。智商增长差距扩大的速度在1995年开始减缓。总的来说，60年代晚期和70年代人的差距最为突出。Skype和手机的激增拉近了不同年龄层人的距离，看看那些整天围着孩子转的“直升机父母”就知道了。
These are the questions that intrigue Mr. Flynn. However much scores change, he emphasizes, the cause is not to be found in a test tube. Behind I.Q. curves are social developments, he says. “There are real people living out their lives.”
这些问题让弗林欲罢不能。他强调，不管分数怎么变化，人们都无法在试管里找到原因。他说，智商曲线的背后推手是社会的发展，“这里是真实的人，努力生活的人。”