WASHINGTON — The federal government is making progress on developing a surveillance system that would pair computers with video cameras to scan crowds and automatically identify people by their faces, according to newly disclosed documents and interviews with researchers working on the project.
华盛顿——美国联邦政府在一套监控系统的开发上正取得进展，该系统可以将计算机与摄像头联合起来扫描人群，并根据面孔自动识别出目标。以上说法依据的是新近披露的文件，以及对该项目研究人员进行的访问。
The Department of Homeland Security tested a crowd-scanning project called the Biometric Optical Surveillance System — or BOSS — last fall after two years of government-financed development. Although the system is not ready for use, researchers say they are making significant advances. That alarms privacy advocates, who say that now is the time for the government to establish oversight rules and limits on how it will someday be used.
该人群扫描项目名为“生物特征识别视觉监控系统”（Biometric Optical Surveillance System，简称BOSS）。经过两年政府资助的开发，国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)于去年秋季对其进行了测试。尽管系统尚未达到应用水平，但多名研究人员表示，他们正取得重大进展。这引起了隐私倡导人士的警觉，他们认为，政府这时候应该针对它在将来的应用建立起一套监管规则和限制措施。
There have been stabs for over a decade at building a system that would help match faces in a crowd with names on a watch list — whether in searching for terrorism suspects at high-profile events like a presidential inaugural parade, looking for criminal fugitives in places like Times Square or identifying card cheats in crowded casinos.
十多年来，研究人员不断进行着各种尝试，希望能打造一套有助于匹配人群中的面孔和观察名单的系统——无论是在总统就职游行等高级别活动中搜寻恐怖嫌疑人，还是在时报广场这样的地方追踪逃犯，亦或在人潮汹涌的赌场锁定打牌作弊的人。
The automated matching of close-up photographs has improved greatly in recent years, and companies like Facebook have experimented with it using still pictures.
特写照片的自动匹配技术近年来已大幅进步，Facebook等企业也已拿它做过静态照片的测试。
But even with advances in computer power, the technical hurdles involving crowd scans from a distance have proved to be far more challenging. Despite occasional much-hyped tests, including one as far back as the 2001 Super Bowl, technical specialists say crowd scanning is still too slow and unreliable.
不过，尽管计算能力已大大增强，事实证明，要攻克涉及远距离人群扫描的技术难题远不是那么简单。虽说偶有被高调宣传的测试出现，例如早在2001年的超级碗(Super Bowl)比赛中就进行过尝试，但技术专家称，时至今日人群扫描仍然既缓慢又不可靠。
The release of the documents about the government’s efforts to overcome those challenges comes amid a surge of interest in surveillance matters inspired by the leaks by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor. Interest in video surveillance was also fueled by the attack on the Boston Marathon, where suspects were identified by officials looking through camera footage.
这些文件记载了政府为克服以上困难做出的种种努力，它们的公布正值国家安全局(National Security Agency)前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)的泄密激起了外界对监控事务的兴趣飙升。 波士顿马拉松爆炸袭击也助长了对摄像监控的兴趣。警方确认该案嫌疑人身份靠的就是翻查监控视频材料。
In a sign of how the use of such technologies can be developed for one use but then expanded to another, the BOSS research began as an effort to help the military detect potential suicide bombers and other terrorists overseas at “outdoor polling places in Afghanistan and Iraq,” among other sites, the documents show. But in 2010, the effort was transferred to the Department of Homeland Security to be developed for use instead by the police in the United States.
BOSS项目表明，此类技术的研发用途可以扩展到其他领域。文件显示，BOSS研究起初是为了帮助军方在“阿富汗和伊拉克的户外检查站”等海外地点探查潜在的自杀式爆炸袭击者等恐怖分子。然而到了2010年，项目转到国土安全部名下开发，使用者变成了美国国内的警察。
After a recent test of the system, the department recommended against deploying it until more improvements could be made. A department official said the contractor was “continuing to develop BOSS,” although there is no sign of when it may be done. But researchers on the project say they made progress, and independent specialists say it is virtually inevitable that someone will make the broader concept work as camera and computer power continue to improve.
经过最近的一次测试，国土安全部建议在投入使用前系统还需要有更大的改进。该部的一名官员称，承包商正在“继续开发BOSS ，”虽说并无迹象表明何时可能完工。不过，数名项目研究人员披露，他们已取得了进展。独立专家也称，随着摄像头和计算能力的持续改进，迟早有人能把这种宽泛的概念变成现实。
“I would say we’re at least five years off, but it all depends on what kind of goals they have in mind” for such a system, said Anil Jain, a specialist in computer vision and biometrics engineering at Michigan State University who was not involved in the BOSS project.
密歇根州立大学(Michigan State University)的计算机视觉与生物特征识别工程学专家阿尼尔·贾殷(Anil Jain)没有参与BOSS项目，但他表示，“要我说的话，我们至少还得等五年，不过一切取决于他们”为此类系统“设立了什么样的目标。”
The effort to build the BOSS system involved a two-year, $5.2 million federal contract given to Electronic Warfare Associates, a Washington-area military contractor with a branch office in Kentucky. The company has been working with the laboratory of Aly Farag, a University of Louisville computer vision specialist.
打造BOSS系统的努力涉及电子战合伙人公司(Electronic Warfare Associates)获得的一份为期两年、价值520万美元（约合3200万元人民币）的联邦合同。该公司是位于华盛顿地区的一家军事承包商，在肯塔基州设有分支机构。这家公司一直在和路易斯维尔大学(University of Louisville)的计算机视觉专家阿利·法拉杰(Aly Farag)的实验室合作。
Significant progress is already being made in automated face recognition using photographs taken under ideal conditions, like passport pictures and mug shots. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is spending $1 billion to roll out a Next Generation Identification system that will provide a national mug shot database to help local police departments verify identities.
在用理想条件下拍摄的照片——比如护照上的照片和入案照——自动进行人脸识别方面，正在取得重大进展。联邦调查局(Federal Bureau of Investigation)正耗资10亿美元推出一个下一代识别(Next Generation Identification)系统。这个系统将会提供一个全国入案照数据库，帮助地方警察局核对身份。
The Homeland Security Department hired the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory to test the BOSS system at an arena in Kennewick, Wash. The plan, according to a “privacy impact assessment,” was to use 30 volunteers whose facial data would be mingled in a database among 1,000 mug shots to see whether the system could reliably recognize when any of the volunteers were present.
国土安全部聘请太平洋西北国家实验室(Pacific Northwest National Laboratory)在华盛顿州肯纳威克的一个体育场对BOSS系统进行测试。据一份《隐私影响评估报告》称，测试方法是将30名志愿者的脸部数据和1000张入案照一起放进一个数据库，当任意志愿者出现时，看该系统能否可靠地识别出来。
The agency set up six tests to determine the technology’s overall accuracy, determining afterward that “it was not ready for a D.H.S. customer” — meaning that police departments should not buy it.
为了确定这项技术的整体准确度，国土安全部安排了六次测试，而后得出结论称“它还不适合国土安全部的客户使用，”这意味着，警察局不能购买这项技术。
In interviews, Ed Tivol of Electronic Warfare Associates and Dr. Farag both suggested that as computer processing becomes ever faster the remaining obstacles will fall away.
在采访中，电子战合伙人公司的埃德·蒂沃尔(Ed Tivol)和法拉杰博士均表示，随着计算机处理速度变得越来越快，剩下的障碍将会消失。
Mr. Tivol said the goal was to provide a match with an 80 percent to 90 percent certainty from a range of up to 100 meters, something “that has never been done.” While the system continued to have problems with light and shading in some tests, he said, in others the goal had been achieved at closer distances. Farther away, he said, the accuracy has fallen to 60 percent to 70 percent.
蒂沃尔说，目标是在最远为100米的距离内，达到80%到90%的匹配准确度，这是一个“至今未能实现”的目标。他称，在部分测试中，这个系统依然在灯光和阴影方面存在一些问题，但在距离更近的其他测试中，这个目标已经实现了。他说，若距离再远一些，准确度就下降到了60%到70%。
“The results were increasingly positive,” he said. 
“结果越来越好，”他说。
Ginger McCall, a privacy advocate who obtained the documents under the Freedom of Information Act and provided them to The New York Times, said the time was now — while such technology is still maturing and not yet deployed — to build in rules for how it may be used.
依据《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information Act)获得相关文件并将其提供给《纽约时报》的隐私倡导人士金杰·麦考尔(Ginger McCall)表示，尽管类似的技术仍处在开发过程中，尚未投入使用，但现在是制定它的使用规则的时候了。
“This technology is always billed as antiterrorism, but then it drifts into other applications,” Ms. McCall said. “We need a real conversation about whether and how we want this technology to be used, and now is the time for that debate.”
“这一技术总是被宣传成反恐，然后却会不知不觉地被用到其他地方，”麦考尔说。“我们必须认真地讨论一下，我们是不是希望运用这项技术，以及我们希望如何运用它。现在是时候进行这样的讨论了。”
In particular, she said, there should be limits on whose faces are loaded into them when they are ready for deployment. Ms. McCall said it would be acceptable to use it for terrorism watch lists, but she feared any effort to systematically track everyone’s public movements by using a comprehensive database of driver’s license photographs.
麦考尔称，当技术可供使用时，尤其需要限制谁的脸部数据会被输入系统。她还称，用于恐怖主义观察名单是可以接受的，但她担心，会有人利用驾照照片综合数据库系统地追踪所有人在公共场合的举动。