TOKYO — As the shock from the beheadings of two Japanese hostages by the Islamic State faded Tuesday, a battle to gain political advantage from their deaths began.
东京——两名日本人质被伊斯兰国(Islamic State)斩首事件引发的惊颤，到周二已经缓和下来，而一场利用他们的死亡取得政治优势的战斗正在打响。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called for the unshackling of Japan’s military, while the opposition accused him of having provoked the crisis.
首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)呼吁解除对日本军事力量的束缚，反对派则指责称，这场危机是他挑起的。
The political maneuvering came as the Islamic State caused new revulsion, posting a video of a captive Jordanian pilot being burned to death.
在各方开始政治布局之时，伊斯兰国发布了一名约旦飞行员被烧死的视频，引发了新一轮的憎恶。
Speaking in Parliament, Mr. Abe said that he wanted to ease the tight legal restrictions currently placed on Japan’s purely defensive military to allow it to engage in what he called police actions overseas, such as freeing hostages.
作为一支纯防御性武装力量，日本军队目前受到严格的法律制约，安倍在议会讲话时表示希望减少对它的限制，允许军队能前往海外进行他所说的治安行动，比如解救人质。
He also used the crisis to suggest that Japan might need an even bigger change to protect citizens abroad: amending Article 9 of its Constitution, which forbids the use of armed force to settle disputes.
他还利用这场危机表示，日本要保护在海外的国民，也许需要做出更大的改变：对宪法第九条做出修正，这条法律禁止日本使用武力解决纠纷。
“We should consider revision in order to fulfill our duty of protecting the lives and property of our citizens,” Mr. Abe told an Upper House budget committee hearing. It was one of the clearest expressions of a desire to change the Constitution that Mr. Abe had made since becoming prime minister two years ago.
“我们应该考虑做出修订，以满足保护国民生命和财产之需要，”安倍在一个上院预算委员会听证会上说。自两年前成为首相以来，安倍多次表达修改宪法的意愿，而这次的表述格外明确。
The Constitution was written by American occupiers after World War II to prevent Japan from ever again following its wartime path of militarist expansion. Before becoming prime minister, Mr. Abe was a leading voice in calling for rewriting the Constitution to allow Japan a bigger role in global affairs; since taking office, however, he has toned down his comments, apparently out of concern that the public may not support so big a change.
日本宪法是第二次世界大战后由美国占领者起草的，目的是防止日本再次走上战时的军国主义扩张道路。安倍在成为首相前就已经带头呼吁重写宪法，让日本在国际事务中扮演更重要的角色；不过，在上台后，他的语气有所放缓，似乎是担心公众也许不会支持如此重大的改变。
Mr. Abe’s voicing of support for constitutional revision is one example of how the deadly end of the 12-day hostage crisis has led liberals and conservatives to stake out clearly opposing positions in a suddenly pitched battle to woo Japanese voters, still numb from the beheadings of their countrymen.
持续12天、以死亡为结局的人质危机，令自由派和保守派之间的一场选战猝然打响，为了争取那些目睹同胞身首异处，至今仍不知所措的选民，双方摆出了明确的对抗态势。安倍的修改宪法呼声就是其中一个例证。
The reinvigorated political debate has heated up just two days after the release of a video showing the execution of Kenji Goto, 47, a veteran journalist who has been widely eulogized here. A photo showing the decapitated body of the other hostage, Haruna Yukawa, 42, was posted online a week earlier.
广受赞誉的资深记者、现年47岁的后藤健二(Kenji Goto)被处决的视频公布仅过去两天，这场政治争论就再度沸腾起来。一周前公布在网上的一张照片显示了另一名人质、42岁的汤川遥菜(Haruna Yukawa)被砍下头颅的尸体。
The killings have left Japan feeling a lot less secure, especially after the video showing Mr. Goto’s execution threatened Japan with “carnage wherever your people are found.”
这场杀戮令日本感到不安，尤其是展示后藤被处决过程的视频中威胁对日本国民要“见一个杀一个”。
On Tuesday, the top government spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, called for stronger efforts to protect against terrorist attacks, such as stepping up security at airports, train stations, and the United States Embassy and military bases in Japan. He also called for robust countermeasures to ensure the safety of the 2020 Olympics to be held in Tokyo.
周二，日本政府首席发言人、内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)呼吁发起更有力的行动，抵御恐怖分子的袭击，比如加强日本的机场、火车站、美国大使馆和军事基地的安保措施。他还呼吁制定严密的对策，确保2020年东京奥运会的安全。
“The threat of terrorism has become more realistic for our country,” Mr. Suga told reporters.
“恐怖主义对我国的威胁变得愈发真切，”菅义伟对记者说。
While Japan had drawn together to hope for the safe release of the hostages, that unity crumbled after the news of Mr. Goto’s death. In Parliament on Tuesday, the opposition pressed Mr. Abe on why he had offered $200 million in humanitarian aid to nations battling the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, when the government knew the two had been captured. Critics pointed out that this was the same sum demanded as ransom by the Islamic State, which criticized Japan for supporting nations aligned against it.
日本曾举国携手期盼人质安全获释，而在后藤的死讯传出后，这种团结也随之荡然无存。周二在议会上，反对派质问安倍，为何政府明知已有两人被俘，还要向那些对抗伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）的国家提供2亿美元（约合12.5亿元人民币）的人道援助。批评人士指出，这正是伊斯兰国索要赎金的数目，而该组织曾指责日本在支持那些联合起来对抗它的国家。
This has led to accusations that Mr. Abe caused the crisis by needlessly provoking the militant group, which controls large parts of Syria and Iraq. During one heated exchange, a Communist Party lawmaker, Akira Koike, suggested that Mr. Abe bore at least some responsibility for the men’s deaths.
反对派的质问还进一步升级，指责是安倍导致了危机的发生，因为他毫无必要地激怒了这个控制着叙利亚和伊拉克大片区域的激进组织。在一场言辞激烈的辩论中，共产党议员小池晃(Akira Koike)表示，安倍对两人的死至少要负部分责任。
“Didn’t you consider that this could be dangerous to the detained Japanese?” Mr. Koike asked.
“你有没有想过，这会将被关押的日本人置于险境，”小池说。
Mr. Abe responded, “While we need to avoid gratuitous provocations, there is no need to be excessively attentive to terrorists.”
安倍回答，“我们需要避免不必要的挑衅，但也没必要过多在意恐怖分子会怎么想。”
He added, “Your question makes it sound like we cannot criticize terrorists.”
他还说，“你的提问显得好像我们不可以指责恐怖分子似的。”
For their part, conservatives like Mr. Abe have used the killings to pursue their long-held goal of lifting restraints on Japan’s military, the Self-Defense Forces. On Tuesday, they argued that the country needed to acquire a viable military option that could strengthen its hand in future hostage situations.
像安倍这样的保守派人士，则将此事件用于他们一直以来的目标，即解除对日本的军事力量“自卫队”(Self-Defense Forces)的束缚。他们在周二提出，国家需要有一个切实可行的军事手段，从而加强应对未来人质事件的能力。