How can a commercial airliner go missing? How, in this hyperconnected age, could it vanish from the earth, apparently without trace, eluding a nearly weeklong search involving more than a dozen governments and some of the world’s most advanced surveillance technology?
一架商业飞机怎么会失踪？在这个超级互联的时代，一架飞机怎么能躲过有十几个国家政府参与、使用了世界上一些最先进监控技术的长达一周的搜索，在地球上消失得无影无踪？
In addition to the familiar horror and sadness over a catastrophe of modern aviation, the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 comes freighted with an unusual terror — the surprise that in our digitally monitored era, people and objects can still somehow vanish. The disappearance stands in stark contrast to the hallmark sensation of our time, the certainty that we’re all being constantly tracked and that, for better or worse, we’re strapped to the grid, never out of touch.
马来西亚航空公司370航班的失踪，除了给人们带来现代航空灾难的恐怖和悲痛的熟悉感外，也让人们感到不同寻常的恐怖，恐怖的原因是事情令人吃惊：在我们这个数字监控时代，人和物体仍然能够莫名其妙地消失。马航班机的失踪与我们这个时代标志性的感觉完全相悖，那个感觉很具确定性，即我们随时随地都在处于监视之中，不管是好还是坏，我们被一个大网绑定，永远不会失去联系。
It turns out that’s not true. There are places in this world that are still beyond the grid. And it reminds us — or, at any rate, it reminds me — that as much as we lament constant tracking, there is often something deeply comforting in having one’s location pinned to a map.
结果却证明并非如此。在这个世界上，还一些地方不在网内。这提醒我们，或者说，这好歹提醒了我，虽然我们对总是在不断地被跟踪尽可能地表示失望，但是，可以在地图上标出一个人的位置，往往让人感到一种深深的安慰。
This week aviation experts have poured out to explain what, in 2014, seems unfathomable. When you’re high in the air over the ocean, you may be flying in a blind spot, one of the few places on the planet where you’re not being watched.
这周，航空专家们纷纷出面来解释一件在2014年似乎是不可思议的事情。当你在大洋上的高空时，你也许是在一个盲区中飞行，那里是世界上少有的几个你不受监视的地方。
Planes over the ocean are beyond the range of radar; while their position can be tracked by an on-board device called a transponder, it can malfunction or be shut off by the pilot. There’s no Wi-Fi or cell service over the deep ocean. Passengers’ cellphones wouldn’t work, and their devices would have no Internet connection to report their positions to far-off data centers. An airliner over the ocean is untethered from the map. If something goes wrong, it can simply vanish from the world’s collective view.
在大洋上空的飞机不在雷达的探测范围之内；虽然它们的位置能被叫做应答器的机载设备跟踪，但应答器可能失灵或被飞行员关掉。在深海上空没有Wi-Fi，也没有手机信号。乘客的手机无法工作，他们的电子设备也没有互联网连接，能让他们把自己的位置报告给遥远的数据中心。一架在大洋上空飞行的飞机在地图上没有定位。一旦发生问题，它可能在全世界的集体视线中消失。
I’ve flown internationally a handful of times in the last few years, and I’ve thought about this disconnectedness every time — at first with fear, then, as the flight proceeds, with increasing glee. I’m sure you recognize this feeling. There’s a new-age comfort in pulling yourself away, in finding recluse from the distracting din of connectedness.
过去几年中，我飞过几次国际航线，每次我都想过这种断开的状态，一开始有点害怕，之后随着飞行的继续，我感到的是越来越多的开心。我敢肯定，你能意识到那种感觉。那里面有一种从让自己超脱的“新世纪运动”(New Age)安慰感，在高度联接状态的分散注意力的喧嚣中找到安宁。
When your boss can’t message you, when you’re technically prevented from sharing every experience with the world, you’re finally free to experience life as one suspects it should be experienced — unmediated, unshared, free from the glare of a screen. It’s why Internet-free zones have lately become a kind of hipster fad.
那个时候，你的上司没法给你发短信，你也因为技术的限制而不能与世界分享你所有的经历，你终于能自由地体验生活，以一种人们觉得生活应该被体验的方式：不受影响的、非共享的、从闪烁的屏幕前解放出来的方式。这也是无互联网区最近变成了一种新时尚的原因。
In reality, though, the story is more complicated. You say you hate to be tracked. Yet every day, with every map search and request to Find My Phone, you invite a global network of satellites and servers to pinpoint your position on this planet. You do so because it’s convenient, but also because you take comfort in electronic connections because seeing your child on a map as he walks to school offers some reassurance that he’s O.K.
但是，在现实中，这个故事更为复杂。你说你讨厌被跟踪。但是每天，通过每次地图搜索、每次提交的“找我的手机”(Find My Phone)请求，你主动邀请卫星和服务器的全球网络来确定你在地球上位置。你这么做，是因为它很方便，但也因为你从电子连接中得到了安慰，因为你在地图上看着孩子向学校走去时，能给你带来一种他一切安好的确定感。