Hilary Miller’s breasts are not what they once were. Two children and many feedings later, they simply don’t have the perkiness of youth. “I’d like them to look the way they used to,” said Ms. Miller, who works at a beauty company in Dallas.
希拉里·米勒(Hilary Miller)的乳房变样了。在生了两个孩子和许多次哺乳之后，它们不再像年轻时那么漂亮。“我想让它们看起来像过去那样，”目前在达拉斯的一家美容公司工作的米勒说。
She has long wanted an augmentation, but she worried about silicone implants. Never mind that the Food and Drug Administration approved them in 2006, after they were removed from the market in 1992 while the F.D.A. evaluated their safety. After years of litigation and expert panel study, silicone gels were deemed safe, but the stigma has remained. Many women still fear “silent ruptures,” that is, tears that are undetectable without an M.R.I., which can cost thousands of dollars and usually isn’t covered by insurance. Many women also fear foreign substances coursing through their veins, worrying that they cause autoimmune diseases or cancer.
她一直想去隆胸，但对硅胶人造乳房存有疑虑。1992年，硅胶假体被禁止在市场上使用，并接受安全评估，在2006年又重获美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）认可。在多年的诉讼和专家小组的研究之后，硅胶被认为是安全的，但污点并没有彻底消失。许多女性仍然害怕“隐性破裂”，即只有通过核磁共振成像(MRI)才能发现的裂口。MRI检测需要花费数千美元，通常不在保险覆盖的范围内。许多女性还害怕异物渗入血管，引发自身免疫疾病或癌症。
“I don’t like the idea of something in my body that I don’t know about,” Ms. Miller, 38, said. Saline didn’t appeal to her; she didn’t want to feel as if two water balloons were dwelling beneath her blouse.
“我不希望身体里有我不了解的东西，”现年38岁的米勒说。她也不想选择生理盐水假体，因为她不喜欢好像衬衫下面放着两只水球的感觉。
So in September, Ms. Miller got something called the Ideal Implant, which bills itself as “natural feel without silicone gel.” The implants, created by a Dallas plastic surgeon, Dr. Robert S. Hamas (pronounced HEY-mus), are made of saline. But instead of bouncing around and potentially scalloping or folding, as saline implants tend to, they are as soft as gel.
今年9月，米勒听说了一种叫做“Ideal Implant”的东西，自称“不使用硅胶，但能拥有同样的天然感受”。这种植入物的发明者是达拉斯整形医生罗伯特·S·黑马斯(Robert S. Hamas)博士，由生理盐水制成。但它不会像生理盐水假体那样四处晃动，或是出现折叠或褶皱，却能够像硅胶一样柔软。
“They look good; they feel natural,” said Ms. Miller, who paid about $7,000 for the implants and a breast lift. “I like the way they fit in my clothes. I’m very happy.”
“它们很好看，感觉也很自然，”米勒说。她花了7000美元，做了这种假体植入和乳房提升手术。“我喜欢它们在衣服里服服帖帖的感觉。我很满意。”
A 2014 analysis in the Archives of Plastic Surgery found that silent ruptures occurred in 9 to 12 percent of cases eight years after implantation. The F.D.A. advises women with silicone-gel implants to get an M.R.I. three years after the original surgery, and then every other year thereafter. Unlike silicone, saline implants deflate if there’s a leak, so it’s easy to tell if there’s a problem.
《整形外科档案》(Archives of Plastic Surgery)于2004年刊登的一份分析报告发现，在隆胸手术八年后， 9%到12%的患者的硅胶假体会出现隐性破裂。FDA建议植入硅胶假体的女性在手术三年后做一次MRI检查，此后每两年做一次。与硅胶不同，生理盐水假体如果泄漏，尺寸会缩小，很容易看出来。
Dr. Hamas has been working on his product since 1992, shortly after the moratorium on silicone. The idea was to figure out a way to keep the saline from sloshing around like a whiskey sour. After much trial and error, he created a series of implant shells nested together, like Russian dolls, and two separate chambers that hold saline. This internal structure limited the saline’s ability to move, while supporting the implant edges to reduce wrinkling.
自1992年硅胶植入物被暂停后不久，黑马斯博士就一直在研究他的这款产品。他想找出一种办法，让生理盐水的人工乳房不再像威士忌酸酒那样四处晃荡。在反复试验之后，他制作了一系列的植入物外壳，把它们套在了一起，就像俄罗斯套娃一样，并用两个单独的空间来盛放生理盐水。这种内部结构限制了生理盐水的流动，同时还能支撑假体的边缘，减少褶皱的出现。
The company, Ideal Implant Inc., which he started in 2006, is majority owned by about 120 board-certified or board-eligible plastic surgeons, and gained F.D.A. approval in 2014. It was made available to the public in September of this year. Sort of.
黑马斯博士于2006年创办了这家名为Ideal Implant的公司，它由120名董事会认证或合乎资质的整形医生控股，2014年经FDA审核通过。这种假体今年9月开始提供给公众，不过这么说有些勉强。
The Ideal Implant, which costs $1,500 a pair in addition to surgical costs, slightly higher than silicone implants, is only available to the shareholders and 45 doctors who investigated them for the F.D.A. (none of whom have a financial stake in the company). But demand far outweighs supply, so doctors have been compiling waiting lists of women who want them.
除了手术费，一对Ideal Implant人造乳房的价格是1500美元，略高于硅胶假体，目前只有股东和为FDA从事调查的45名医生（与这家公司都没有财务关系）能够获得这款产品。需求远远超出了供应，因此医生们手头都积攒了一个等待这种假体的女性名单。
“Ten years ago, when Dr. Hamas showed it to me, I thought it was a good idea to improve upon saline implants, especially back then when that was all we had,” said Dr. James. C. Grotting, a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Ala. “I didn’t know it was going to take so long.”
“10年前，当黑马斯医生向我展示这款产品时，我觉得在生理盐水的基础上进行改进是个好主意，尤其是因为那时候我们别无选择，”亚拉巴马州伯明翰的整形医生詹姆斯·C·格勒廷(James. C. Grotting)博士说。“我没想到会需要这么长时间。”
Dr. Kevin Brenner, a plastic surgeon in Beverly Hills, Calif., who was one of the original F.D.A. investigators, said he has patients who have been waiting five years. “Breast augmentation is a very personal decision for most women, and they’ve got to be comfortable with what I’m putting in them,” he said. “Both saline and silicone have upsides and downsides. The Ideal Implant is the best of both worlds.”
加州比弗利山的整形医生凯文·布伦纳(Kevin Brenner)博士是FDA最初的调查员之一，他说，他的一些患者已经等了五年。“隆胸是非常个人化的决定，她们必须能够接受放置在她们身体里的东西，”他说。“生理盐水和硅胶都各有利弊。Ideal Implant在两种范畴中都是最佳选择。”
Not every doctor is on board. Dr. Scot Glasberg, a plastic surgeon in New York and the immediate past president of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, said he has received calls from a half-dozen doctors concerned about the marketing of the Ideal Implant. “It suggests in a roundabout way that silicone is not safe,” he said. “We’ve spent such a large amount of time ensuring the safety of silicone products. We’d hate to have a situation where anyone, even in a remote way, is trying to lay a foundation that they’re not safe.”
并非每位医生都支持这种产品。美国整形外科学会(American Society of Plastic Surgeons)上一任主席、纽约整形医生斯科特·格莱斯伯格(Scot Glasberg)博士表示，他接到过五六个医生打来的电话，都表达了对Ideal Implant推向市场的担忧。“它在间接告诉公众，硅胶是不安全的，”他说。“我们已经花了大量时间来确保硅胶产品的安全性。我们不希望有任何人以哪怕是最不可能的方式来证明它们是不安全的。”
Dr. Steven Teitelbaum, a plastic surgeon in Santa Monica and president of the California Society of Plastic Surgeons, doesn’t even see the need for another saline implant. According to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, in 2014, 20 percent of breast augmentations involved saline. “Nobody comes in asking for saline except real bargain hunters or women who want really enormous implants but small incisions,” Dr. Teitelbaum said. (Saline implants can be inserted around the nipple or through a cut in the underarm, and then inflated.) “A saline implant can never feel like a silicone implant.”
加州整形外科学会主席、圣莫尼卡的整形医生史蒂芬·泰特尔鲍姆(Steven Teitelbaum)甚至认为不需要再发明一种生理盐水假体。根据美国美容整形外科学会(American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery)，2014年，只有20%的隆胸手术使用了生理盐水。“没人要求使用生理盐水假体，除了实在想贪便宜的，或者希望拥有巨大的人造乳房但又想让切口很小的女性，”泰特尔鲍姆说。（生理盐水可以被注入到乳头周围，或者通过腋下的切口注入，然后慢慢胀大。）生理盐水假体的感觉永远不可能和硅胶一样。
He also worries about the data, or lack thereof. F.D.A. approval was based on the initial results of a two-year study, published in the September 2012 issue of the Aesthetic Surgery Journal. Dr. Hamas is one of the authors. A 10-year study of nearly 500 women ages 18 to 67, also conducted by the company, is underway. It will conclude in 2019.
他担心的还有数据，或者说数据的缺乏。FDA的许可根据的是发表于2012年9月号的《美容外科杂志》(Aesthetic Surgery Journal)上的一项长达两年的研究的初步结果。黑马斯是这篇文章的作者之一。这家公司正在对近500名18至67岁女性进行一项长达10年的研究，该研究将于2019年完成。
And finally, Dr. Teitelbaum is bothered by the implant’s limited availability. “You don’t launch a product when you don’t have it ready to ship,” he said. “It’s a false launch.”
最后，泰特尔鲍姆还苦恼于这种假体供应量有限。“如果你没准备好推出产品，就不要发布，”他说。“这是一种虚假发布。”
Dr. Hamas stresses that his company is tiny, which accounts for its inability to produce mass quantities of the implant. It wouldn’t have been able to get off the ground without investments from other doctors. And he believes women are worried.
黑马斯博士强调，他的公司很小，无法大量生产这种假体。如果没有其他医生的投资就不可能取得进展。他认为女性们也担心这一点。
“A lot of plastic surgeons say, ‘Don’t worry about silicone, the F.D.A. has approved it,’” he said. “The F.D.A. has said silicone gel is safe but women should get an M.R.I. scan every other year, for life, to see if they’re ruptured because you can’t tell by examining a patient or looking at it.”
“许多整形医生说， ‘不用担心硅胶的不良反应，它已经通过了FDA的审核，’ ”他说。“FDA已经宣布，硅胶是安全的，但是女性应该终生每两年做一次MRI检查，看看是否出现破裂，因为光是体检或是肉眼观察是看不出来的。”
Dr. Grotting and other investors say they aren’t going to get rich from the Ideal. They are happy to disclose their financial interest to patients. “I show women all the devices available, and explain the pros and cons of each,” he said. (Informing patients of financial interest in a product is determined on a state-by-state basis by state medical boards.)
格勒廷医生和其他投资者说，他们不会因为Ideal而发大财。他们很愿意向患者披露他们的相关经济利益。“我向一些女性展示目前可以获得的所有设备，解释每种的优缺点，”他说。（医生向患者披露自己与某款产品的经济利益，是各州的医疗委员会的要求）
Dina Kaufman, a 29-year-old graphic designer in Hoboken, N.J., is on the waiting list with Dr. Sherrell Aston, a plastic surgeon in New York and an investor. Over the last six years, Ms. Kaufman has lost about 100 pounds, and wants a breast lift and implants to help bring back the shape of her breasts from before she lost the weight.
新泽西霍博肯29岁的平面设计师蒂娜·考夫曼(Dina Kaufman)，就在纽约整形医生、投资人谢雷尔 ·阿斯顿 (Sherrell Aston)那里等待做这个手术。过去六年，考夫曼女士体重轻了100磅，她想做乳房提升和隆胸，恢复减肥之前的胸型。
“The saline wasn’t as natural and you could tell they were fake, and with silicone I read a lot of horror stories,” she said. “Because I’m so young, I didn’t want to have to worry about them.”
“生理盐水的假体看起来不那么自然，一看就是假的，至于硅胶，我听说了太多可怕的故事，”她说。“我还太年轻，我不想要为它们烦恼。”
She read an article about the Ideal Implants a few years ago. That her doctor is a minor investor in the company doesn’t bother her at all. “It makes me want it even more,” she said.
几年前她读到了一篇关于Ideal Implant的文章。虽然她的医生是这款产品的小型投资人，她对此完全不介意。“我反倒更想做这个手术了，”她说。