BAGHDAD — The last time the United States pushed Iraqis to choose a new prime minister who could unite the country to confront a sectarian civil war was in 2006, and the Iraqis chose Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. The result was another civil war. This time, with the country again on the edge of collapse, they have chosen Haider al-Abadi.
巴格达——上一次美国敦促伊拉克人选择一位能把国家团结起来应对宗派内战的新总理，还是在2006年。当时，伊拉克人选择了努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)。结果，伊拉克爆发了另一场内战。如今，伊拉克又走到了分裂的边缘，这一次他们选择了海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)。
Both men come from the same Shiite Islamist movement whose members, after decades of clandestine opposition to Saddam Hussein and the Sunni elite that dominated his rule, were asked to govern Iraq in an inclusive way that accommodated the Sunnis they considered their former tormentors.
两人都来自同一个什叶派伊斯兰运动组织。数十年来，这个组织的成员一直在秘密地反对萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)，以及在他统治时期占主导地位的逊尼派精英。两人都受到了外界要求，应当以更包容的方式治理伊拉克，需要包容那些在他们看来曾是加害者的逊尼派。
So far, that has proved elusive, but this time hope rests on a belief that Mr. Abadi is a different type of Islamist: one whose education, big-city upbringing and decades of living in Britain can surmount what have seemed the reflexive positions of Iraqi Shiite Islamists to be suspicious of Sunni ambitions and to see conspiracies around every corner.
迄今为止，事实证明这一点很难实现。不过这一次，人们相信阿巴迪是一个截然不同的伊斯兰主义者，因而仍怀有希望。阿巴迪的教育背景、大城市的成长经历，以及数十年的英国生活，能够使他超越伊拉克什叶派伊斯兰主义者的固有立场——对逊尼派的野心忧心忡忡，认为阴谋遍布每个角落。
In some ways, though, he is solidly in line with the traditional sectarian views held by Shiite Islamists in Iraq. Mr. Abadi, who was nominated last week to be Iraq’s new prime minister and still must form a government before he takes power, insisted a few years after Shiites took power during the American occupation that they could not soon be expected to support a reconciliation program with the country’s Sunni minority.
不过在某种程度上，他仍然坚定支持伊拉克什叶派伊斯兰主义者的传统宗派观点。在美国占领伊拉克期间，什叶派掌权。那以后的几年，阿巴迪曾坚持表示，不能指望他们很快支持一个与占少数的逊尼派达成和解的方案。阿巴迪于上周被提名为伊拉克新总理，在履职之前，还需要组建一个新政府。
Before Iraq’s national elections in 2010, Mr. Abadi fretted anew that Baathists, Mr. Hussein’s old ruling party, were “building new coalitions” to restore their power. And speaking to an American diplomat in Baghdad, Mr. Abadi worried that if the Iraqi public did not benefit fully from Iraq’s new democracy, then army officers might “launch a coup d’état.”
在伊拉克2010年的全国大选之前，阿巴迪又担心萨达姆原来的执政党复兴社会党(Baathist)正在“建立新的联盟”，以期重掌大权。阿巴迪在巴格达与一名美国外交官谈话时表示，他担心如果伊拉克公众没有从伊拉克新实行的民主制度中全面受益，军方可能就会“发动政变”。
These sentiments, illustrated in several American diplomatic cables that were made public by WikiLeaks, reflect the scarred psyche of the Shiite Islamist movement that shaped much of Mr. Abadi’s life. For his political activities, Mr. Abadi was driven to exile in Britain, and two of his brothers were executed by Mr. Hussein’s administration.
这些情绪在维基解密(WikiLeaks)公布的几份美国外交电文中就得到了体现。它们也反映了什叶派伊斯兰主义运动的累累伤痕，这场运动对阿巴迪的一生产生了极大影响。由于参与政治活动，阿巴迪曾被迫流亡英国，他的两个兄弟则被萨达姆政府处决。
Whether Mr. Abadi can now overcome this history will help determine whether he can establish partnerships with Iraq’s Sunnis and Kurds and forge a more inclusive government. President Obama has demanded a less divisive leader as the price of more robust support to fight the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, which threatens to break the country apart.
阿巴迪现在是否能克服这段历史的阴影，决定着他是否能与伊拉克的逊尼派和库尔德人建立合作关系，形成一个更加包容的政府。奥巴马总统希望伊拉克能产生一位更包容的领导人，以此作为提供更有力的支持，对抗伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的条件。如今，ISIS正在对伊拉克的统一构成威胁。
There is little in Mr. Abadi’s political history to suggest that he harbors views at odds with the Dawa Party establishment. Even so, interviews with Iraqi political leaders and foreign diplomats paint a more nuanced portrait, with some holding out hope that he could break the mold of Iraq’s recent leaders.
阿巴迪的政治经历中，几乎没有任何事件能够表明，他的观点与达瓦党(Dawa Party)核心阶层有何不同。即便如此，对伊拉克政治领导人和外国外交官的采访，还是体现出了些许差异。一些人仍然怀有希望，认为他能打破伊拉克最近几任领导人的模式。
Mr. Abadi’s rise to the cusp of becoming Iraq’s new leader is almost as improbable as that of the man he is replacing, Mr. Maliki, who said last week that he would give up power.
阿巴迪成为伊拉克新任领导人，登上权力巅峰的历程，与他所取代的马利基的经历一样令人难以置信。上周，马利基宣布自己将放弃权力。
Mr. Maliki, like Mr. Abadi, was a lawmaker when he was chosen in 2006 to replace another man from his own Shiite Islamist Dawa Party, Ibrahim al-Jaafari. Mr. Jaafari was seen as too sectarian and indecisive and not capable of uniting the country in the face of civil war.
与阿巴迪一样，马利基在2006年当选总理，接替易卜拉欣·贾法里(Ibrahim al-Jaafari)时，也是一名议员。而贾法里也来自马利基所在的由什叶派主导的伊斯兰主义政党达瓦党。外界认为，贾法里的宗派立场太强，而且犹豫不决，无法在面临内战之际把国家统一起来。
Now Mr. Maliki, who initially seemed eager to take the fight to Shiite militias in Basra and Sadr City and who cooperated with the United States during the American troop surge, has been replaced, mostly for the same reasons. And again, the political class has plucked its choice for a new prime minister from the Dawa Party, which won the most seats in April’s national elections.
刚开始时，马利基似乎也迫切地要对巴士拉和萨德尔城的什叶派武装组织实施打击，他还曾在美军增兵期间与美国开展合作。如今，马利基也被换了下来。他下台的原因与贾法里也大致相同。目前，伊拉克政治阶层又一次迅速地从达瓦党内部挑选了一位新总理。在4月的全国选举中，达瓦党赢得了多数席位。
American diplomats and Iraqis say that Mr. Abadi and Mr. Maliki, despite a common political heritage, have important differences, including that Mr. Abadi has been much more exposed to the West than Mr. Maliki was. But some also acknowledge the risk that history will repeat itself, with a new Shiite leader unwilling or unable to knit the country back together.
美国外交官和伊拉克人都说，虽然阿巴迪和马利基有相同的政治背景，但他们存在重要区别。其中一点就是，阿巴迪接触西方世界的程度要比马利基高得多。但是，也有人承认，历史可能会重演，这位什叶派新领导人可能也不愿意，或者没有能力把伊拉克重新团结起来。
Zalmay Khalilzad, who was the American ambassador to Iraq in 2006 and played a decisive role in urging Mr. Maliki to seek the position of prime minister, said he thought Mr. Abadi would be “more pragmatic because of his Western technical background.”
扎尔梅·哈利勒扎德(Zalmay Khalilzad)曾担任美国驻伊拉克大使，在2006年劝说马利基谋求总理职位之时，哈利勒扎德起到了决定性作用。哈利勒扎德表示，他认为阿巴迪可能会“更务实，因为他有西方的技术背景”。
But he also noted that Mr. Abadi had been a core member of the Dawa party, which has governed Iraq for more than eight years and shown itself incapable of establishing durable alliances with Sunnis.
但他也指出，阿巴迪一直是达瓦党的核心成员。达瓦党已经统治伊拉克超过八年，而且已经表现出，无法与逊尼派结成持久的同盟。
“He is more open, more worldly, but he is going to have a very difficult task being able to bridge the gaps that exist and then confront the I.S.,” he said, using the abbreviation for the Islamic State, which ISIS now calls itself.
“他更开明，更世俗化，但他面临着一项非常艰巨的任务，要消除存在的分歧，然后对抗伊斯兰国，”他说。ISIS现在自称伊斯兰国。
“He also comes from that hard-core Dawa, which is Shia Islamist.” Mr. Khalilzad said. “Not only does he have to evolve further himself, but bringing the rest of the Shia Islamists to the kind of power-sharing needed will be a tall order for him.”
“他也属于达瓦党的核心圈子，这是一个什叶派伊斯兰主义政党，”哈利勒扎德说。“他不仅必须让自己进一步转变，还得让其他什叶派伊斯兰主义者发生转变，同意实行必要的权力分享。这是一项艰巨的任务。”
Ali al-Alaq, a longtime Dawa leader, noted Mr. Abadi’s background as a scion of a wealthy family and said he would “have a new touch in Iraqi politics.”
长期担任达瓦党领导人的阿里·阿拉克(Ali al-Alaq)提到了阿巴迪出身富裕家庭的背景，称他可能会“给伊拉克政坛注入新的气息”。
In the opposition days, Mr. Abadi was involved in Dawa’s political affairs, working in Britain, while Mr. Maliki, operating largely from Damascus, Syria, was in charge of clandestine military operations against Mr. Hussein’s government.
在身为反对派的日子里，在英国工作的阿巴迪参与了达瓦党的政治事务，而主要在叙利亚大马士革活动的马利基，则负责针对萨达姆政权的秘密军事行动。
“He is a man who considers things,” said Salman al-Jumaili, a Sunni and former member of Parliament, where he worked with Mr. Abadi. “And my opinion is that he is not as aggressive because he doesn’t have a background in the security services of the Dawa Party.”
“他会周全地考虑事情，”曾在议会与阿巴迪共事的逊尼派前议员萨勒曼·朱马伊利(Salman al-Jumaili)说。“我的观点是，他不那么强势，因为他没有在达瓦党的安全部门工作的背景。”
Even so, Mr. Abadi has not broken from the party’s orthodoxy, which has been geared toward securing the political dominance of Iraq’s long-suppressed Shiite majority. Many of the things people are now saying about Mr. Abadi — that he is not overly sectarian — are similar to what was said about Mr. Maliki eight years ago.
即便如此，阿巴迪也并未与该党的正统派决裂。他们的目标是，确保伊拉克长期受压迫的多数群体什叶派，在政治上占据主导地位。当下，人们关于阿巴迪的许多讨论——比如他的宗派色彩不是特别浓——与八年前对马利基的讨论相似。