For 86 years, the Gegenbauer family has manufactured food — first sauerkraut, and now oil and vinegar — in a 19th-century lodging house in Favoriten, a dilapidated industrial district of Vienna. The building is now being prepared to house an exhibition of furniture made by the French designer Marlène Huissoud from a material she developed from part of the factory’s waste.
86年来，盖根保尔(Gegenbauer)家族一直在维也纳破旧工业区法沃里滕(Favoriten)的一座19世纪的出租公寓里生产食物：开始是德式泡菜，现在是油和醋。现在，这座房子正被用来准备举办一场家具展，家具是法国设计师马莱娜·胡苏德(Marlène Huissoud)设计的，所用材料部分来自这家工厂的废料。
Ms. Huissoud’s collaboration with Gegenbauer is one of the projects commissioned as part of the “Passionswege” section of Vienna Design Week, which runs from Sept. 25 through Oct. 4. Each project encourages an international designer to use the expertise of a traditional Viennese manufacturer to produce new works to be exhibited during for the festival. Among the other participants in this year’s program are a 165-year-old textile company, and specialists in sandblasting and water-jet cutting.
胡苏德与盖根保尔家族的合作是维也纳设计周（Vienna Design Week，9月25日至10月4日举行）Passionswege单元的委约项目之一。每个项目鼓励一位国际设计师利用维也纳一家传统工厂的专门技术生产新产品，然后在设计周上展示。今年这个单元的其他参与者包括一家有165年历史的纺织厂以及喷砂和喷水切割方面的专家。
Vienna Design Week is one of dozens of design festivals and biennials to be held around the world this fall, with events planned in Beijing; Brussels; Budapest; Detroit; Dubai, United Arab Emirates; Eindhoven, the Netherlands; Gwangju, South Korea; Helsinki, Finland; Istanbul; Lodz, Poland; London; Mexico City; Paris; Philadelphia; Prague; Seattle; Taipei, Taiwan; and Tokyo.
今年秋季，除了维也纳设计周，世界各地将举办几十个设计节和设计双年展，包括北京、布鲁塞尔、布达佩斯、底特律、阿联酋的迪拜、荷兰艾恩德霍芬、韩国光州、芬兰赫尔辛基、伊斯坦布尔、波兰罗兹、伦敦、墨西哥城、巴黎、费城、布拉格、西雅图、台北和东京。
“Vienna hadn’t been on the international design map for quite some time before we started the festival,” said Lilli Hollein, the director of Vienna Design Week. “The benefits for the local design scene are obvious, but we also show the contemporary side of Vienna to international tourists and give the locals an idea of what design can be.”
“在我们开设这个设计节之前，维也纳在国际设计版图上沉寂了很长时间，”维也纳设计周的负责人莉莉·霍尔莱茵(Lilli Hollein)说，“这对当地设计界的益处十分明显，但我们也想向国际游客展示维也纳现代的一面，同时也让当地人了解设计的各种可能性。”
Traditionally, design festivals tended to pursue commercial agendas by creating promotional and networking opportunities for local designers; and many still do. Both the London Design Festival and Paris Design Week are timed to coincide with the furniture trade fairs 100% Design and Maison & Object. The first Beijing Design Trade Fair is to open this month during Beijing Design Week.
传统上，设计节往往追求商业效益，努力为当地设计师创造宣传和交流的机会，如今很多设计节依然是这样。伦敦设计节(London Design Festival)和巴黎设计周(Paris Design Week)分别与家具贸易会“百分百设计”(100% Design)和“Maison & Object”同时举行。第一届北京设计贸易交易会将于本月在北京设计周期间开幕。
Yet most festivals also program events with a broader appeal to attract design enthusiasts as well as professionals. And the most culturally ambitious festivals, like those in Vienna and Gwangju, have emerged as impromptu training grounds for a new generation of design curators in leading museums.
不过，大部分设计节还组织了一些具有更广泛吸引力的活动，以便同时吸引设计专业人士和爱好者。最具文化野心的设计节，比如维也纳和光州的设计节，更像是主要博物馆新一代设计策展人的即兴训练场地。
One of the most dynamic festivals is Dutch Design Week, which will stage more than 400 events in Eindhoven from Oct. 17 to 25. Eindhoven has emerged as a global center of design experimentation as students have flocked to Design Academy Eindhoven, Europe’s most influential design school, and stayed in the city after graduation to set up studios in the derelict factories and warehouses offered to young designers for low rents by the local council. Several hundred thousand people travel to Eindhoven each year to explore the city’s design scene during Dutch Design Week.
最具活力的是荷兰设计周(Dutch Design Week)，它将于10月17日至25日在艾恩德霍芬举办400多场活动。艾恩德霍芬已成为全球设计实验中心，因为有很多学生蜂拥前往艾恩德霍芬设计学院(Design Academy Eindhoven)学习。这所学院是欧洲最具影响力的设计学院。学生们毕业后，依然留在这座城市，在废弃的工厂和仓库里开设工作室。地方政府以很低的租金把这些地方租给年轻设计师。每年，在荷兰设计周期间，数十万游客前往艾恩德霍芬探索这里的设计产业。
Few other places have as strong a design ethos, or such staunch political support, yet other festivals have tried to develop distinctive strands of programming (as Vienna Design Week has done with Passionswege).
其他城市似乎没有如此强烈的设计风气，也没有得到政府如此坚定的支持，不过其他设计节也努力开发独特的项目（比如维也纳设计周的Passionswege项目）。
A recurrent theme of Beijing Design Week, for example, is the regeneration of Dashilar, one of the few surviving historic areas of the city. Young Chinese designers show their work there during the festival alongside exhibitions celebrating Dashilar’s craft heritage. Craft is also a focus of Design Week Mexico, which will run from Oct. 21 to 25 in Mexico City with the first of a series of exhibitions exploring the artisanal skills of particular regions, starting with Chiapas in southern Mexico.
比如，北京设计周一个重复的主题就是大栅栏的复兴。大栅栏是北京少数几个留存下来的历史区域。设计周期间，中国年轻设计师们在那里展示自己的作品，另外还有一些展示大栅栏手工艺传统的展览。手工艺也是墨西哥设计周(Design Week Mexico)的一个重点。墨西哥设计周将于10月21日至25日在墨西哥城举办，将推出一系列探索墨西哥地方手工艺的展览，今年的第一场展览将关注墨西哥南部恰帕斯州的手工艺。
An annual highlight of the Brussels Design September festival is Europe’s biggest flea market for late 20th-century design, the Brussels Design Market. More than 100 European dealers will descend on the city this weekend to sell their wares in an early 1900s harbor station.
布鲁塞尔九月设计节(Brussels Design September)每年的一个亮点是欧洲最大的20世纪末设计作品的跳蚤市场——布鲁塞尔设计市场(Brussels Design Market)。一百多位欧洲交易商将于这个周末前往这座城市，在20世纪早期的一个港口销售自己的货品。
The most popular features of the London Design Festival, which began in 2003, are its collaborations with the city’s museums. During this autumn’s festival, running from Sept. 19 to 27, the British designer Max Lamb is to exhibit at the Somerset House cultural center the furniture he has made from a single ash tree on his grandfather’s farm. An exhibition at the Victoria & Albert Museum, meanwhile, will explore the experimental objects made from wood by the late Robin Day, one of Britain’s best known 20th-century furniture designers.
始于2003年的伦敦设计节最受欢迎的特色是与该市的博物馆合作。今年秋季的设计节于9月19日至27日举办。其间，英国设计师马克斯·拉姆(Max Lamb)将在萨默塞特宫(Somerset House)文化中心展示他用爷爷农场一棵白蜡树做成的家具。与此同时，维多利亚与艾伯特博物馆(Victoria & Albert Museum)的一场展览将探索已故家具设计师罗宾·戴(Robin Day)用木头做的实验家具。他是20世纪英国最著名的家具设计师之一。
The quality of the projects in the bigger festivals, like London’s and Brussels’, is so erratic that navigating the events can be tricky. The London festival hopes to strengthen its program by introducing a London Design Biennale at Somerset House in September 2016. It will run alongside the festival in alternate years. Modeled on the Venice art and architecture biennales, the new event, announced in July, will invite up to 40 countries to stage exhibitions on the theme of “Utopia by Design,” to mark the 500th anniversary of the humanist philosopher Thomas Moore’s book “Utopia.”
伦敦和布鲁塞尔等更大型设计节的项目质量很不稳定，所以介绍起来比较困难。今年7月，伦敦设计节宣布将于2016年9月在萨默塞特宫推出伦敦设计双年展(London Design Biennale)，以强化自己的项目。双年展将隔年和设计节同时举办，将效仿威尼斯艺术和建筑双年展，邀请40个国家以“设计乌托邦”(Utopia by Design)为主题推出展览，纪念人文主义哲学家托马斯·莫尔(Thomas Moore)的《乌托邦》(Utopia)出版500周年。
“The Venice biennales are important critical moments for global discourse in art and architecture,” said Christopher Turner, director of the new London biennale. “We want to do the same in London for design.”
“威尼斯双年展对全球艺术和建筑进步具有重要意义，”伦敦双年展的主管克里斯托弗·特纳(Christopher Turner)说，“我们想在伦敦为设计业做出同样的贡献。”
Quality control may remain a challenge for the new biennale, however, as the participating countries will be responsible for their contributions. The most compelling design events of recent years have adopted a polemical approach to analyzing important design issues, as the London biennale plans to do, but have curated their programs themselves.
不过，对伦敦双年展来说，质量控制可能仍是一个挑战，因为它取决于参与国的努力。近些年最吸引人的设计项目都是采用辩论方式分析重要的设计问题（伦敦双年展就计划这样做），同时自己策划项目。
An example was the 2012 Istanbul Design Biennial, which staged a series of experiments with 3-D printing and other digital manufacturing technologies that are still hotly debated within design circles. Last year, the Ljubljana Design Biennial in Slovenia made a similar impact by presenting curatorial experiments into design’s future role in space travel, food politics and biotechnology.
其中一个例子是2012年的伊斯坦布尔设计双年展(Istanbul Design Biennial)。它展示了一系列用3D打印等数字生产技术进行的实验，直至今日，这些技术仍是设计界的热门话题。去年，斯洛文尼亚的卢布尔雅那设计双年展(Ljubljana Design Biennial)获得了类似的影响力，通过策划性实验，展现未来设计在太空旅行、食物政治和生物技术中的角色。
The provocative ethos of these biennials will have an enduring influence on design culture through the work of their curators in new posts at leading museums. Beatrice Galilee joined the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York last year, having worked on the Gwangju Design Biennial. Thomas Geisler and Tulga Beyerle, who co-founded Vienna Design Week with Ms. Hollein, are now employed at the MAK Museum of Applied Arts in Vienna and the Dresden Museum of Decorative Arts, respectively. Kieran Long took charge of the V&A’s design program after a stint at the Venice Architecture Biennale, and Aric Chen joined M+ museum in Hong Kong from Beijing Design Week.
这些双年展令人兴奋的风气将对设计文化产生持久影响，因为它们的策展人纷纷在一些重要博物馆任职。去年，光州设计双年展的策展人比阿特丽斯·加利利(Beatrice Galilee)加入纽约大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)。与霍尔莱茵联合创办维也纳设计周的托马斯·盖斯勒(Thomas Geisler)和图尔加·拜尔勒(Tulga Beyerle)现在分别就职于维也纳的MAK应用艺术博物馆(MAK Museum of Applied Arts)和德累斯顿装饰艺术博物馆(Dresden Museum of Decorative Arts)。基兰·朗(Kieran Long)曾为威尼斯建筑双年展(Venice Architecture Biennale)短暂工作，现在负责维多利亚与艾伯特博物馆的设计项目。陈伯康曾是北京设计周的创意总监，现在为香港的M+博物馆工作。
The new recruits are redefining the design programs of those institutions, notably by analyzing design within a social and political context, rather than from a traditional aesthetic perspective. The V&A has radicalized its approach to design collecting since Mr. Long’s arrival, and Mr. Chen is assembling a collection of Asian design from scratch at M+ in the same spirit.
这些策展人正在新职位上重新定义这些机构的设计项目，主要是在社会和政治环境中分析设计，而不是从传统的审美角度。基兰·朗加入维多利亚与艾伯特博物馆之后，彻底改变了设计收藏方法。陈伯康秉承同样的精神，在M+博物馆从头收集亚洲设计藏品。
“Working on a festival or biennial is one of the few ways of experimenting and trying things out as a curator,” Ms. Galilee said. “It’s always fun to have that freedom, but an encyclopedic museum is the biggest platform a curator can ask for.”
“策划设计节或双年展是策展人进行实验和尝试的少数几种方法之一，”加利利说，“拥有那种自由总是很好玩的事情，但是包罗万象的博物馆是策展人所能找到的最大平台。”