OCILLA, Ga. — It is a meager holiday in the pecan groves of the South, and the pain is stretching to kitchens across the country.
佐治亚州奥西拉——美国南方的山核桃果园正在度过一个惨淡的假期，痛苦的情绪已经蔓延到美国千家万户的厨房里。
A rare collision of ill-timed rain, marauding animals and a growing love affair between the Chinese middle class and the pecan has resulted in the worst pecan supply in recent memory. As a result, grocery store prices are up by about 30 percent, which is causing Thanksgiving bakers to think twice about their menus.
不合时宜的降雨、掠夺成性的动物们以及中国中产阶级对山核桃的青睐有加，这三种情况少有地凑在了一起，导致了近几年来最差的山核桃供应状况。食品杂货店里的山核桃价格增长了大约30%，感恩节的烘焙师们不得不在糕点的选择上费一番心思。
“It’s like the world doesn’t want us to make pralines,” said Anna Butler, 24, a Texas native who lives on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
24岁的安娜·巴特勒(Anna Butler)是德克萨斯人，目前住在曼哈顿的下东城，她说，“似乎老天不想让我们做果仁糖了。”
Ms. Butler has a ticket home to Texas for the holiday, so she and her New York friends celebrated an early Thanksgiving last weekend. She had planned to show off her Texan roots with a black-bottom pecan pie. But at her favorite Manhattan market, a pound of shelled pecans cost $15.99.
巴特勒已经买到了回德克萨斯老家过节的票，所以她和纽约的朋友们上周末提前庆祝了感恩节。她本来打算做一个具有德克萨斯特色的黑底山核桃馅饼。但在她最常去的曼哈顿市场，一磅去了皮的山核桃要15.99美元。
“That’s a real investment in a pie right there,” she said.
她说，“对馅饼来说，这太贵了。”
Too much, in fact. She brought a dish of cauliflower, macaroni and cheese instead.
事实上，这超出了她的承受范围。她没有做山核桃馅饼，而是做了一盘西兰花、通心粉和奶酪。
In 2012, the nation’s pecan orchards produced about 302 million pounds of pecans. This year, that number could drop by as much as 35 percent, according to industry officials. In Georgia, the nation’s leading pecan-producing state, the crop is expected to be about half of what it was last year. In South Carolina, some orchards succumbed completely.
2012年，美国的山核桃园大约出产了3.02亿磅（约合1.36亿公斤）核桃。今年，行业管理人员说，这个数字可能下降多达35%。在美国的主要山核桃出产地佐治亚州，该作物的产量预计将是去年的大约一半。在南卡罗莱纳州，一些果园则颗粒无收。
The problem began with record rainfall last spring and summer. Pollination became difficult, and the moisture encouraged disease. Pecan growers sprayed their fields in record amounts but it was not enough to fight off a disease called scab.
问题始于春天和夏天创纪录的降雨，这导致花粉传播出现困难，此外，潮湿还滋生了病害。山核桃的种植者从来没有在果园喷洒如此多的农药，但仍然不足以消灭一种叫做疮痂的病害。
In Texas and Oklahoma, it was a summer drought that hurt the trees. Then came autumn’s heavy rain, which made the ground too wet to hold the heavy equipment that shakes nuts from trees and sweeps them up.
在德克萨斯州和俄克拉荷马州，是夏季的干旱重创了这些果树。秋天又大量降雨，导致土地过于潮湿，那些用于把果实摇落和收集起来的重型设备根本无法进入果园。
As a result, harvesting was sporadic, and the pecan supply was left wide open for feral pigs, which have become quite a problem in Texas, and for squirrels, which are always looking for a free nut.
因此，采摘是断断续续的，其间，野猪和松鼠无限量地享用着山核桃。野猪在德克萨斯已经成为了一个令人头疼的问题，而松鼠更是从来不会放过免费的坚果。
“The crop faced a lot of wildlife pressure,” said Blair Krebs, associate director of sales and marketing at the Texas Pecan Growers Association.
德克萨斯州山核桃种植者协会(Texas Pecan Growers Association)销售和营销副主任布莱尔·克雷布斯(Blair Krebs)说，野生动物给果园造成了很大的压力。
The bad nut crop has a few other causes, one of which is the cyclical nature of pecans: Typically, if one year is good, the next year is not.
山核桃的收成不好还有几个其他原因，其中一个是山核桃产量的周期性：一般来说，如果一年收成好，第二年就不好。
Last year, for example, Texas produced about 65 million pounds of pecans, said Larry Stein, a professor of horticulture at Texas A&M University. Most estimates indicate that this year will bring no more than 35 million pounds.
德克萨斯州农工大学(Texas A&M University)园艺学教授拉里·斯泰因(Larry Stein)说，例如去年，德克萨斯出产了大约6500万磅山核桃。大多数估计数字显示，今年的产量将不超过3500万磅。
Then there is China.
还有中国的原因。
In the mid-2000s, the market for pecans in China began to grow rapidly. China now consumes more than a third of the American pecan crop, a development that followed the country’s inclusion in the World Trade Organization in 2001.
2005年左右，中国的山核桃市场开始大幅扩张。中国现在消耗着超过三分之一的美国山核桃产量，这个变化是在中国2001年加入世界贸易组织之后发生的。
“Before that, they didn’t know what a pecan was,” said Randy Hudson, the owner of Hudson Pecan Company here in Ocilla and a vice president of the National Pecan Growers Council.
美国山核桃种植者委员会(National Pecan Growers Council)副主席、赫德森山核桃公司(Hudson Pecan Company)的所有者兰迪·赫德森(Randy Hudson)说，在这之前，中国人连山核桃是什么都不知道。
Chinese shoppers prefer big varieties with thin shells, with names like Desirables and Stuarts.
中国的消费者喜欢皮儿薄个儿大的品种，比如名为理想果(Desirables)和斯图尔特(Stuarts)的品种。
“The ones that are real pretty on top of a pecan pie? Most of those have gone to export,” Ms. Krebs said.
克雷布斯说，“放在山核桃馅饼上很漂亮的那种山核桃，大多数都出口了。”
Chinese processors lightly crack the shells, send the nuts through a bath of flavored water and dry roast them. The most popular flavor is called cream. Mr. Hudson says it tastes like vanilla.
中国的加工商们把山核桃壳轻轻砸碎，用调味液体浸泡果实，然后烘烤。最受欢迎的味道是奶油味。赫德森说，那味道很像香草。
They are sold by the bagful and are particularly popular around the Chinese New Year, which is coming in January — earlier than last year, and soon enough to elbow out the Thanksgiving nut supply.
这些核桃成袋出售，在中国春节期间尤其受欢迎。中国的春节即将于1月份到来，比去年早一些，早到足以影响美国感恩节的坚果供应。
While that isn’t good news for American bakers, it has alleviated the pain for many farmers. Although the crop is small this year, the price is well over $3 a pound at the wholesale level.
尽管这对美国的烘培师们不是好消息，却缓解了许多果农的困境。因为今年的产量很低，批发价远高于每磅3美元。
Still, that has not helped the neighborhood pickers in the Deep South who collect “yard nuts” from the pecan trees that grow in backyards from Atlanta to rural Texas.
尽管如此，这对南方腹地的社区内的采摘者没有什么帮助，他们收集的山核桃是“院子里的坚果”，来自从亚特兰大到德克萨斯的乡村庭院。
In a fall ritual, people scoop them up and bring sacks to shelling stands along the road. In many rural regions, “We buy pecans” signs are not hard to find. Gathering yard nuts in Alabama with an eccentric cousin at the start of fruitcake weather was a soul-saving exercise for a young Truman Capote, who wrote about it in his short story “A Christmas Memory.”
就像一个秋天的仪式一样，人们把这些山核桃收集起来，装在袋子里拿到路边去壳。在许多乡村地区都不难发现“收购山核桃”的标语。在“水果蛋糕天气”（11月——译者注）刚刚开始的时候，年轻的杜鲁门·卡波特(Truman Capote)曾在阿拉巴马州与一个古怪表亲收集院子里的坚果，这对他来说成为了一项拯救灵魂的活动。他后来把这件事写进了短篇故事《一个圣诞节的回忆》(A Christmas Memory)。
But backyard pecan trees and small orchards are not usually sprayed regularly enough to ward off disease.
不过，院子里的山核桃树和小果园通常不是定期喷洒农药，也就无法抵挡病害。
“People use yard nuts to pay their property taxes,” said Scott Hudson, Mr. Hudson’s son and vice president of the family company. “But not this year.”
赫德森家族企业的副总裁、赫德森的儿子斯科特·赫德森(Scott Hudson)说，“人们会利用院子里的山核桃支付物业税，但今年不行。”
The great pecan crisis of 2013 is playing out differently in different regions. Parts of New Mexico might have a good crop of high-quality nuts. And some parts of the country just do not care as much about making a pecan pie for Thanksgiving.
2013年的山核桃危机在不同地区的表现并不相同。新墨西哥某些地区可能收获了大量优质山核桃。此外，美国的有些地区对感恩节做不做山核桃馅饼也不那么在乎。
Nationally, there were more than twice as many searches for pumpkin pie as for pecan pie, a Google spokeswoman said.
谷歌的一名发言人说，全国来看，搜索南瓜馅饼的人是搜索山核桃馅饼的人的两倍还多。