Long the Toyota Corolla of New York City real estate — affordable, reliable and unassuming — Queens is finally getting some respect.
长久以来，皇后区(Queens)一直是纽约市房产市场中的丰田卡罗拉(Toyota Corolla)——平价、可靠、不张扬；而如今，它终于得到了一些尊重。
The Michelin Guide just anointed four Queens restaurants with the coveted star. Ridgewood is being heralded as the new Bushwick. And the offerings for apartment hunters are growing as developers and landlords rush to capitalize on the increasing buzz about the borough.
《米其林指南》(The Michelin Guide)刚刚授予皇后区的四家餐馆人们梦寐以求的星级评定。里奇伍德（Ridgewood，皇后区的一个社区——译注）已被誉为新布什维克（Bushwick，布鲁克林北部的一个中产阶级社区——译注）。向找房者伸出橄榄枝的房源越来越多，因为开发商和业主正争先恐后地从皇后区日益兴旺的市场中谋利。
In already burgeoning Long Island City, more than 10,000 apartments are planned over the next three years, ranging from amenity-laden rentals to family-size condos, according to aptsandlofts.com, a New York brokerage that specializes in the marketing of developments. Hundreds of new apartments are expected in downtown Flushing over the next several years. Aging apartment buildings in neighborhoods like Forest Hills, Kew Gardens, Rego Park and Elmhurst are being reinvented with updated lobbies, redesigned apartments and amenities from green roofs to children’s play areas.
纽约的一家经纪公司aptsandlofts.com专业从事房产开发项目营销。该公司称，在接下来三年里，已然飞速发展的长岛市(Long Island City)拟建1万多套公寓，其中既有设施齐全的出租型房源，也有家庭规模的共管公寓。法拉盛(Flushing)商业区接下来几年中也拟建数百套新公寓。森林山(Forest Hills)、邱园(Kew Gardens)、雷哥公园(Rego Park)、艾姆赫斯特(Elmhurst)等社区中的老旧公寓楼正在被重建，大堂得以翻新，公寓重新设计，从楼顶绿地到儿童游乐场的配套设施，都得到了完善。
And major developments will add thousands of residences to industrial areas and reshape the waterfront along the East River from Hunter’s Point South in Long Island City, where the first two towers of a 30-acre complex are rising, to Astoria Cove, a nearly nine-acre site with 1,700 apartments in its future.
大型开发项目将使数千套民宅落户工业区，重塑东河(East River)河畔地段的面貌，该地段起始于长岛市的猎人角南(Hunter’s Point South)，终于阿斯托利亚湾(Astoria Cove)。猎人角南将兴建一片占地30英亩（约合12.1公顷）的建筑群，目前头两栋大楼正在拔地而起。阿斯托利亚湾将修建1700套公寓，工地占地面积将近9英亩（约合3.6公顷）。
“Within the last two years there’s been huge interest in Queens, unlike anything I’ve ever seen before,” said Eric Benaim, the chief executive of the Modern Spaces brokerage, which has offices in Queens in Long Island City and Astoria. “People are flocking to Queens like they did to Brooklyn as the next frontier.”
“近两年来，人们对皇后区表现出了浓厚的兴趣，这是我前所未见的，”房地产经纪公司现代空间(Modern Spaces)的首席执行官埃里克·贝奈姆(Eric Benaim)说，现代空间在皇后区的长岛市和阿斯托利亚设有办事处，“人们正纷纷涌入皇后区，正如人们以前热衷于搬进布鲁克林一样。皇后区成了下一个潮流前哨。”
All of this is causing people like Corey Anker, a 15-year resident of Manhattan, to change their minds about Queens. “I just didn’t see myself living there,” Mr. Anker said. “To me, it was an old person’s borough.”
这些，都令科瑞·安科尔(Corey Anker)这样的人对皇后区刮目相看。安科尔在曼哈顿居住了15年。“我真的没想过自己要去那儿住，”安科尔说，“以前觉得，那是一个老人居住的社区。”
But with two children under the age of 5, he and his family began to feel cramped in a Junior Four apartment in the Gramercy area. So after a little prodding by his wife, Joana, he took the subway to Forest Hills to check out Parker Towers, a 1950s-era rental complex that was undergoing a makeover by the Jack Parker Corporation, a hotel and real estate company.
但是，由于带着两个不到5岁的孩子，他和家人开始感觉到，他们在格莱美西(Gramercy)住的那套小四间（Junior Four，一种一居室户型，房间数有四个，分别是一间卧室、一间起居室、一间厨房、一个用餐区——译注）已经变得拥挤起来。因此，在妻子乔安娜(Joana)稍加怂恿之下，他乘坐地铁前往森林山去帕克大厦(Parker Towers)看房。这是一片20世纪50年代的出租楼建筑群，目前正由从事酒店和房地产业务的杰克·帕克公司(Jack Parker Corporation)整修。
While the exterior was unimpressive, his interest was piqued when he entered a hotel-like lobby with retro-chic wall coverings and a convenience store called the Pantry tucked into a corner. Upstairs, roomy apartments were being updated with open kitchens, new flooring and bathrooms. There was a new gym.
虽然大厦的外观并不起眼，但当他走进那间酒店般的大堂时，立刻来了兴致。大堂里有时尚复古的墙面涂饰，转角还有一家名为Pantry的便利店。楼上正在翻新宽敞的公寓。公寓里配有敞开式厨房，铺设了新地板，也加了新浴室。楼里还新开了一家健身房。
A couple of blocks away on Austin Street, he found a mix of cafes, bars, chain stores and small businesses and began to picture a life there. Twenty minutes and four express stops later, he was back in Manhattan planning their move.
在几个街区之外的奥斯汀街(Austin Street)，他看到一些咖啡馆、酒吧、连锁店和小商铺，于是开始想象住在那里的生活。20分钟后，经过四个地铁站，他回到了曼哈顿，开始计划搬家。
“I was vehemently opposed to moving to Queens,” said Mr. Anker, a life coach who arrived with his family to Parker Towers in May, renting a renovated $3,600-a-month three-bedroom, two-bath with a balcony. “Now, I couldn’t love it any more if you paid me.”
“我本来强烈反对搬到皇后区，”安科尔说。安科尔是一名生活教练，今年5月和家人搬到帕克大楼，租下了一套翻新过的三室两卫公寓。这套房子带一个阳台，房租每个月3600美元（约合人民币22141元）。“而现在，我简直爱死这里了，就算给我钱也动摇不了这件事。”
While affordability continues to be a major driver of people moving to Queens, prices have been going up. Market-rate rents in Long Island City and Astoria, where much of the new development is concentrated, are no longer a bargain, accounting for the highest prevailing rents in the borough, according to the brokerage firm MNS.
虽然省钱依然是人们搬到皇后区的一大主要动力，但是，房价一直在上涨。房地产经纪公司MNS表示，在新开发项目云集的长岛市和阿斯托利亚，房租的市价已不再低廉，在全皇后区都属于最高水平。
In October, the monthly rent for two-bedrooms in Long Island City was $3,831 and in Astoria, $2,610. But, brokers and developers say, more newcomers are considering those areas as destinations in their own right.
今年（2014年——译注）10月，长岛市两居室的月租为3831美元（约合人民币23526元），而阿斯托利亚两居室的月租为2610美元（约合人民币16028元）。但是经纪人和开发商们称，有越来越多新来的居民是因看中了那些社区本身的优势，才选择它们作为居住目的地的。
“There is less of a conversation around, ‘I can’t afford anything else,’ ” said Rachel Loeb, a development director for World Wide Group. “It’s now a neighborhood of choice.”
“‘住不起别处的房子’已是人们较少提及的说辞了，”World Wide集团的开发总监蕾切尔·洛布(Rachel Loeb)说，“这里现在是一处人们主动选择的社区。”
World Wide and its partners, Rabina Properties and Cammeby’s International Group, are behind a 421-unit rental called QLIC with lots of amenities, including an outdoor pool on the 10th floor with Manhattan skyline views.
World Wide及其合作伙伴——拉比纳地产(Rabina Properties)和坎默比国际集团(Cammeby’s International Group)正在开发一处包含421套单元的出租公寓楼盘，称为QLIC。该楼内设施齐全，十层有一座露天泳池，从那里可以看到曼哈顿的天际线景观。
The vibrant arts scene was what drew Michelle Byrd, who consults on media and social change, to a one-bedroom rental in Long Island City, after she sold her rowhouse duplex in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. Her old home was within a few blocks of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, “so it was really important for me that I lived somewhere that was an international destination for the arts,” Ms. Byrd said.
当地欣欣向荣的艺术气象，吸引身为传媒及社会变化领域咨询师的米歇尔·伯德(Michelle Byrd)，租下了长岛市的一套一居室，并卖掉了自己原来那套位于布鲁克林格林堡(Fort Greene)、离布鲁克林音乐学院(Brooklyn Academy of Music)仅几个街区远的复式联排住宅。“所以说，能够住在一个国际级的艺术胜地，对我来说真的是件非常重要的事。”伯德说。
Into her life came Pearson Court Square, a new 197-unit rental building with prices that range from $2,600 a month for a studio to $5,800 for a two-bedroom penthouse. Now she’s not far from MoMA PS1 and exhibition spaces like the SculptureCenter, Ms. Byrd said. “The number of people jumping off the 7 train,” she said, “asking directions and taking photographs — that makes it feel very cosmopolitan.”
Pearson Court Square走进了她的生活。这是一栋包含197个单元的出租型公寓楼，房租最低为月租2600美元（约合人民币15967元）的单间公寓，最高为5800美元（约合人民币35617元）的两居室顶楼公寓。伯德说，她现在住的地方靠近现代艺术博物馆的当代艺术中心(MoMA PS1)，以及雕塑中心(SculptureCenter)这类展馆。“7号线总是会下来一大批人，”她说，“他们问路、拍照——这让我们这个地方很有大都市的感觉。”
It doesn’t matter that basic conveniences like supermarkets or pharmacies can be few and far between. Buildings are filling with young couples and families willing to pay for the proximity to Manhattan and the anticipation of what is to come.
虽然超市、药店等基本生活设施尚且稀少、也不太近便，但这没有关系。这些楼盘里到处都住着年轻夫妇和家庭，他们愿意为了住在曼哈顿附近付出代价，同时也对这个社区的未来满怀期待。
“The price is right, the transportation options are really good, and I see the potential in the neighborhood,” said Amadeo Plaza, 27, an advertising strategist who moved with his wife, Noelia, in January to a rent-stabilized two-bedroom, two-bath at the Linc LIC, a 42-story building by the Rockrose Development Corporation.
“房价很公道，交通真的很便利，我可以看到这个社区的潜力。”阿马德奥·普拉扎(Amadeo Plaza)说。普拉扎现年27岁，是一名广告策略师，今年1月和妻子诺埃利亚(Noelia)搬进了Linc LIC大楼内一套两室两卫的租金管制公寓。该楼共有42层，由Rockrose开发公司(Rockrose Development Corporation)开发。
The couple pay $3,720 a month, including use of a two-story gym, squash and basketball courts, a coffee lounge, a screening room, a children’s playroom and three roof decks with barbecues, wet bars and misting machines for hot summer days. “If you were to pick up this apartment and drop it into Manhattan,” Mr. Plaza said, “you’d be asking for north of $5,000 a month.”
夫妇俩每月的支付是3720美元（约合人民币22845元），可使用的设施包括一座两层健身房、一座壁球馆、一片篮球场、一间休闲咖啡厅、一间电影放映室、一间儿童游乐室和三处屋顶平台。平台上有露天烧烤架、小酒吧和在炎炎夏日里可以使用的微雾加湿器。普拉扎说，“这套房子要是放在曼哈顿，月租得在5000美元（约合人民币30705元）以上。”
Less expensive options are also on the way. At Hunter’s Point South, two apartment buildings with more than 900 low- and moderate-income apartments are being developed by the Related Companies with its partners Phipps Houses and Monadnock Construction. These are offered through a lottery that began in mid-October and closes in December.
更便宜的住宅也在建设当中。猎人角南有两栋公寓楼正在建设当中，其中包含了900多套面向中低收入人群的公寓。这处楼盘的开发商是Related Companies及其合作伙伴——菲普斯住宅(Phipps Houses)及莫纳德诺克建筑事务所(Monadnock Construction)。这些房源将采取摇号的分配方式，从（2014年）10月中旬开始摇号，到12月结束。
Monthly payments start as low as $494 a month for studios for one person making $18,618 to $23,520 a year; they go up to $4,346 a month for three-bedrooms for households of three to six people with a combined income of $151,132 to $224,020. The complexes have a communal garden, a fitness center and other amenities.
其中单间公寓的月租起价可低至494美元（约合人民币3034元），目标租户为个人年收入在18618到23520美元（约合人民币114333到144436元）的单身人士；三居室的月租起价则为4346美元（约合人民币26689元），目标租户是总收入在151132到224020美元（约合人民币928102到137571元）的三口到六口之家。这片建筑群还配备了一座社区花园和一个健身中心等设施。
But you’ll need some luck to land one of the below-market rate apartments. Already tens of thousands of applications have been submitted.
但是，你需要一点运气才能入住这样一套低于市价的公寓。因为目前已有成千上万人递交了申请。
Deeper in the borough, ground-up developments are less common. But older apartment buildings are beginning to be refreshed as landlords realize they can charge a premium for like-new units.
在皇后区相对纵深的地区，新的开发项目还没有那么常见；但是较老的公寓楼开始被翻新，因为业主们意识到，如果他们把公寓弄得如同新楼一般，就可以从中赚到溢价。
With the help of Ari Silverstein, a Queens native whose company, the Silverstein Collection, specializes in “the luxury outer-boroughs market,” Dawn and Jordan Chapman found a $2,100-a-month one-bedroom with an office and a terrace on the top floor of Court Plaza, a tall doorman building in Kew Gardens. But that was only after an exhaustive search that mostly turned up apartments with old kitchens that lacked dishwashers and buildings that didn’t have gyms.
阿里·西尔弗斯坦(Ari Silverstein)是皇后区本地人，他的公司Silverstein Collection专注于“外区（outer-boroughs，纽约市除曼哈顿外的其他四个行政区的统称——译注）奢华房产市场”。在西尔弗斯坦的帮助下，唐·查普曼(Dawn Chapman)和乔丹·查普曼(Jordan Chapman)找到了一套月租2100美元（约合人民币12896元）的一居室。这套房子里有一间办公室和一座露台，位于邱园一栋带门卫高层大楼Court Plaza的顶层。不过，他们也是好不容易才找到这套房子的。之前看过的房源大多是厨房设施老化、没有洗碗机的公寓，还有没有健身房的楼盘。
“We must have looked at 30 apartments,” said Ms. Chapman, a children’s caregiver who had lived on the Upper East Side in a small $1,400 studio and after that in Astoria, sharing an $1,800 one-bedroom walk-up with Mr. Chapman.
“我们看过的公寓肯定有30套了。”身为儿童护理员的唐·查普曼说。她曾在上东区租住过一套1400美元（约合人民币8597元）的小单间公寓，后来同乔丹·查普曼在阿斯托利亚的一栋无电梯公寓楼里，合租了一套1800美元（约合人民币11054元）的一居室。
“This apartment had everything we were looking for and more,” said Ms. Chapman, noting its stainless-steel kitchen appliances — including a dishwasher. “At night you can watch the planes fly into J.F.K. On the Fourth of July you can see fireworks everywhere.”
“这套公寓里有我们想要的一切，外加很多惊喜，”唐说，她指的是那些不锈钢厨具——包括一台洗碗机，“在晚上，你可以看着飞机降落在约翰·F·肯尼迪国际机场(J.F.K.)。到了7月4号，到处都可以看到烟花。”
While many of the new and refreshed residential offerings opening up in Queens are rentals, industry watchers say condos are next. “It is following the same track that Brooklyn did,” said Michael A. Tortorici, a founder of Ariel Property Advisors, which monitors the market. “First you have rentals, then people see it as a viable destination and people want to buy into that.”
虽然在皇后区挂出的许多新建或翻新房源都是出租房，但据业内的观察人士称，接下来就要轮到共管公寓了。“皇后区正在走布鲁克林的老路，”艾瑞尔房地产咨询公司(Ariel Property Advisors)的创建人迈克尔·A·托尔托里奇(Michael A. Tortorici)说，该公司常年监测市场动向，“一开始，你在那里看到了出租房源，渐渐地，人们就会把它视为一处宜居地，从而萌生在那里买房的念头了。”
Land prices, which have reached as high as $250 a square foot in Long Island City and $200 a square foot in Astoria, are making rentals harder to justify. “At $250 a foot to buy land and another $250 a foot or more in construction costs,” said Mr. Benaim of Modern Spaces, “it doesn’t work out financially as a rental, so condos are the business plan for a lot of developers right now.”
长岛市的地价已经高达每平方英尺250美元（约合每平方米人民币17058元），阿斯托利亚的地价也要每平方英尺200美元（约合每平方米人民币13647元）了。这就使得出租房源更难收回成本。“光是买地，每平方英尺就要花250美元，盖房子又要花去至少一倍的价钱，”现代空间公司的贝奈姆说，“建出租房并不划算，所以现在，很多开发商的商业计划就是修建共管公寓。”
Modern Spaces plans to begin sales next year on two condo projects in Astoria — the Marx, a 33-unit condo in the new Kaufman Arts District, and the Baron, a 77-unit condo with parking by New York Lions Group near the waterfront.
现代空间公司计划明年开始销售阿斯托利亚的两个共管公寓项目：一个是包含33套公寓的马克斯大楼(the Marx)，位于新考夫曼艺术区(Kaufman Arts District)；以及包含77套公寓、带停车位的男爵大楼(the Baron)，由纽约Lions Group集团开发，接近滨水地带。
Meanwhile, some recently opened projects are proving the market by selling out faster and at higher prices than anticipated. In Forest Hills, a 97-unit condominium called the Aston, which is going up near the 71st Avenue subway station, is half sold after opening for sales at the end of September. Apartments, which have walnut floors and Bosch washer/dryers, begin at $580,000 for a one-bedroom, $890,000 for a two-bedroom, and $1.39 million for a three-bedroom, according to the Marketing Directors, which is handling sales.
与此同时，有些新开盘项目也证明了市场的火爆，其销售速度和售价都超出了预期。在森林山社区，一栋包含97套公寓单元的共管公寓楼——阿斯顿大楼(the Aston)，正在第71大道地铁站附近拔地而起，9月底开盘后已有半数售出。负责该楼盘销售的Marketing Directors公司说，这些公寓铺设了胡桃木地板，配备了博世(Bosch)洗衣/烘干两用机，一居室的起价在58万美元（约合人民币356万元），两居室起价89万美元（约合人民币547万元），三居室则是139万美元（约合人民币854万元）。
Amenities at the doorman elevator building include a landscaped terrace with barbecue and wet bar areas, a fitness center and on-site parking.
这栋带门卫和电梯的公寓大楼配备的设施包括：一座经过绿化设计、其中有露天烧烤架和小酒吧区的露台，一处健身中心，还有就地的停车位。
Astoria Lights, a redevelopment of a prewar co-op, began sales in October 2013 with a goal of selling 23 units in half a year. Demand was so high that all 58 units were spoken for within four months.
Astoria Lights是对一栋战前合作公寓楼的再开发项目，于2013年10月开盘，目标是在半年内卖出23套公寓。不过由于市场需求太过旺盛，其中的58套单元在四个月内就全部售罄。
“We had over 3,800 people come through the development,” said Tom Le, the associate broker at the Corcoran Group who handled the sales of the building. “Every single unit went substantially over the asking price,” he said, noting starting prices began at $199,000 for studios, $299,000 for one-bedrooms and $399,000 for two-bedrooms. Some people combined units to create three-bedroom, two-baths that sold for $650,000 and up.
“有超过3800人来看这个开发项目，”柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)的助理经纪人、负责销售该楼盘的汤姆·勒(Tom Le)说，“每套单元最后的成交价都显著高于了要价，”他说，同时补充道，其中单间公寓的起价是19.9万美元（约合人民币122万元），一居室是29.9万美元（约合人民币184万元），两居室的则为39.9万美元（约合人民币245万元）。有些人将多个单元合并成了一套三室两卫，售价超过65万美元（约合人民币399万元）。
“For $650,000 you can barely buy a one-bedroom in Williamsburg and Downtown Brooklyn,” Mr. Le said.
“在威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)和布鲁克林下城，你花65万美元都很难买到一套一居室。”勒说。
Mr. Le is working on another co-op redevelopment expected to open for sales next year at the border of Jackson Heights and Elmhurst. Plans call for larger apartments, a community garden and possibly a green roof.
汤姆·勒的手里还负责着一个合作公寓再开发项目，位于杰克逊高地(Jackson Heights)和艾姆赫斯特社区的边界，预计明年（2015年——译注）开始销售。开发商计划将公寓面积扩大，修建一座社区公园，可能还会有一处屋顶绿地。
Similarly, the Continental Park, a 153-unit co-op in Elmhurst, where 79 sponsor units are being renovated and resold, drew 1,000 people and 14 offers during its opening weekend last month.
类似的，在艾姆赫斯特社区里有一栋包含153个单元的合作公寓楼——洲际公园(Continental Park)，其中有79套开发商单元（sponsor unit，开发商卖的一手房，买家无需经公寓委员会批准就可购买——译注）正在装修、转售。该楼盘于上月的一个周末开盘，吸引到了1000名来访者和14份报价。
“So many people showed up, we were overwhelmed,” said Myles Horn, the developer with partners ABC Properties and Fisher Associates. Now, the sales team offers tours by appointment only, and prices have been increased slightly to $197,000 for studios, $310,500 for one-bedrooms, $447,900 for two-bedrooms with two baths and $530,000 for three-bedrooms.
“来的人太多，我们都应接不暇了。”开发商迈尔斯·霍恩(Myles Horn)说。其合作伙伴包括ABC地产(ABC Properties)和Fisher Associates。如今，销售团队只接受预约看房，各个房型的房价都有些微上涨，单间公寓涨到了19.7万美元（约合人民币121万元），一居室涨到了310500美元（约合人民币1909653元），两室两卫涨到了447900美元（约合人民币2754697元），三居室涨到了53万美元（约合人民币326万元）。
“It exceeded anything I could have predicted,” Mr. Horn said. “My faith in Queens, which has always been there, has just been amplified.”
“这完全超出了我的预期，”霍恩说，“我一向对皇后区有信心，现在信心更足了。”
Allison Shack and her boyfriend, Vladimir Golanov, were among the crowd on opening weekend. The couple, who work in Midtown and live in Astoria, had been looking for nearly a year, but the apartments in their price range either needed major renovations or were far from a subway.
在那个周末的开放售房期，艾莉森·夏克(Allison Shack)和男友弗拉基米尔·戈拉诺夫(Vladimir Golanov)也加入了看房大军。这对情侣现在在中城(Midtown)工作，在阿斯托利亚居住。他们已经找了将近一年的房子，但是符合预期价位的公寓要么需要大修，要么离地铁很远。
“In Astoria, we’re in a luxury rental right now, and that kind of spoiled us,” Ms. Shack said. “We really wanted something newly renovated. I wanted it to feel like we were the first ones to be living there.”
“我们现在在阿斯托利亚住的是一套奢华出租房，所以对居住环境有点挑剔，”夏克说，“我们真的想要一套新装修的房子。我希望它给我的感觉就像之前没有别人住过一样。”
So the couple quickly put in an offer when they saw the open floor plans, Caesarstone countertops, stainless-steel appliances and Kohler and Grohe bath fixtures of the model apartment at the Continental Park. They are now in contract for $353,300 for a two-bedroom, one-bath, with a terrace and a washer/dryer hookup.
因此，情侣俩一眼看中了洲际公园的样品房——它有着开阔的平面布局、恺萨金石(Caesarstone)柜面、不锈钢家电、科勒和高仪(Grohe)卫浴产品，他们很快给出了报价，现在已签约购买一套353300美元（约合人民币2172883元）的两室一卫，这套房子带有一座露台、一个洗衣烘干两用机连接装置。
With their rent going up by about $200 each lease renewal, Ms. Shack said that their monthly outlay “will be less when we move.”
夏克表示，由于租约每续期一次，房租就要涨200美元（约合人民币1230元）左右，因此“搬家之后，每个月的开销会更少。”
As older apartment buildings modernize and new buyers move in, prices are going up. Overall, the median sales price in Queens rose 6 percent to $402,000 in the third quarter of 2014, up from $380,000 during the same quarter last year, according to the Real Estate Board of New York.
随着旧公寓楼的翻新和新买家的涌入，房价正在上涨。根据纽约房地产委员会(Real Estate Board of New York)的数据，2014年第三季度，皇后区的房屋售价中值达到了40.2万美元（约合人民币247万元）。相比去年同期的38万美元（约合人民币234万元）上涨了6%。
In the northwest region, which includes Long Island City, Astoria, Sunnyside and Woodside, the median sales price jumped 22 percent to $461,800 in the third quarter compared with the same time last year, according to a Douglas Elliman report prepared by the appraisal firm Miller Samuel.
根据道格拉斯·艾丽曼(Douglas Elliman)房地产公司发布的一份由估值公司米勒-萨缪尔(Miller Samuel)准备的报告，在皇后区的西北部，包括长岛市、阿斯托利亚、桑尼赛德(Sunnyside)和伍德赛德(Woodside)，（2014年）第三季度的房屋售价中值比去年同期增长了22%，达到461800美元（约合人民币284万元）。
But even at the higher prices, Queens still offers savings. Last year, Aravind Rajasekharan, a vice president of operations of an investment firm who had been commuting from Turtle Bay to Greenwich Conn., decided he wanted to move out of the rental studio he was sharing with a 23-pound cat named Kramer and buy a place. When his $750,000 budget didn’t go very far in Manhattan and Long Island City, he turned to Flushing.
不过即便房价上涨，在皇后区买房依然可以省钱。阿拉温德·拉贾塞克兰(Aravind Rajasekharan)在一家投资公司担任负责运营事务的副总裁。他之前一直和自己那只23磅（约合10公斤）重的猫“克莱默”(Kramer)租住在一套单间公寓里，过着从海龟湾(Turtle Bay)到康涅狄格州格林尼治(Greenwich)的通勤生活。后来他决定搬家。鉴于75万美元（约合人民币461万元）的预算在曼哈顿和长岛市都找不到多少好房子，他来到了法拉盛。
In August 2013 he moved to a two-bedroom with a terrace and a view of Manhattan at Sky View Parc, the condos above the Shops at SkyView Center. Now, he does something he never could in his tiny Manhattan studio — entertain. “I can have 20 people over and have a good party,” he said.
2013年8月，他搬进一处共管公寓楼盘Sky View Parc里的一套两居室，房子带一座露台，可以坐拥曼哈顿的景观。楼下就是购物中心SkyView Center的店面。如今，他会做以前在曼哈顿的小单间公寓里永远做不到的事——招待客人。“我可以叫20个人过来，好好地开一次派对。”他说。
Kramer also purrs about Queens. “He’s got a few beds around the apartment,” said Mr. Rajasekharan, who paid about $610 a square foot for the apartment. “He’s living large.”
猫咪克莱默对皇后区也很满意。“他在公寓里有好几张床，”拉贾塞克兰说，“他住的地方变大了。”他买下这套公寓的价格大约在每平方英尺610美元（约合每平方米人民币41685元）。
Beyond affordability, Queens converts say it can have a neighborly quality that Manhattan and increasingly, Brooklyn, have all but lost.
除了尚可承受的房价外，皇后区的新居民们表示，这里还有一种睦邻友好的氛围，是曼哈顿所缺失的，在布鲁克林也越来越淡薄了。