It was nearly eight years ago, somehow.
算起来已经是将近8年前的事了。
Those who gathered then — curious, hopeful, freezing — remember it all: the ocean of faces across the National Mall; the crackling energy, building as they waited; the catharsis of more than a million strangers finding occasion to shiver together, cheer together, cry together after a presidential campaign that had, to them, affirmed the best of America.
当时聚在一起的那些人——心怀好奇，充满希望，同时冷得要命——还记得所有的一切：国家广场(National Mall)上人山人海；蓬勃的活力在他们等待之际不断积聚；超过100万人找到了一个可以一起战栗、一起欢呼、一起哭泣的场合，在一场总统选举之后宣泄自己的情感，那场选举向他们证明了美国最美好的一面。
“On this day, we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false promises,” President Barack Obama vowed, just after assuming the title, “the recriminations and worn-out dogmas that for far too long have strangled our politics.”
“今天，我们宣布要为无谓的摩擦、不实的承诺和指责画上句号”，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统刚刚就职便许下庄严的承诺，“我们要打破牵制美国政治发展的若干陈旧教条。”
They remember that pledge.
他们还记得这个承诺。
They do not remember why it seemed possible.
但却已经不记得为什么它当时看起来有可能被兑现。
The elections of 2008 and 2016: twin political moments that cannot be disentangled — an earthquake and its aftershock, jolting the American psyche into an era of spectacular contradiction.
2008年和2016年的选举：是两个紧密相联、难以切割的政治时刻，是一场地震和一场余震，让美国人为之震惊，从而打开了一个有着巨大矛盾的时代。
An increasingly popular outgoing president is leading a country that most voters believe is on the wrong track.
眼下，一位越来越受到欢迎的即将卸任的总统，领导着一个在大多数选民看来偏离了正确方向的国家。
Wide-scale economic unease festers at a time, the statistics show, of relative economic stability — eight years after even an escalating financial crisis seemed, to some, a mere blip on the path to “Yes, we can.”
想当初，就连愈演愈烈的金融危机，都被某些人视为通往“是的，我们能”的康庄大道上的小小插曲。但统计数据显示，八年过后，对经济的普遍焦虑正在经济态势相对稳定之际发酵。
And a campaign pocked with racism and sexism, rendered in open view, may well reach this conclusion: Americans replacing their first black chief executive with their first female one.
此外，一场不时包含种族主义和性别歧视、呈现在众目睽睽之下的竞选，极有可能以此作结：美国人将送走自己的第一位黑人总统，迎来第一位女总统。
If 2008 was an emblem of progress on at least one measure, 2016 has required the grim acceptance of the limits, the disappointments, the blind spots — a nation taking a long look inward, and shuddering.
如果说2008至少以一个标准来衡量是象征着进步的年份，那么2016便是要求人们阴郁地对局限、失望和盲点习以为常的年份，是整个国家进行漫长的自我审视，然后忧心忡忡的年份。
“I didn’t think about those other million people out there,” Edith S. Childs, the South Carolina councilwoman whose mantra “Fired up, ready to go!” was adopted by Obama as a campaign rallying cry. “They were still in the ‘40s and ‘50s in their minds and wishing it hadn’t happened.”
“我没有想过那里的另外100万人，”南卡罗莱纳州议会女议员伊迪丝·S·蔡尔兹(Edith S. Childs)说。她的口头禅“点燃激情，准备出发”(Fired up, ready to go!)曾被奥巴马用作竞选口号。“他们的思维还停留在上世纪四五十年代，希望事情从未发生。”
She sighed a bit. “Too late,” Childs said, days before an election for which she sounds decidedly less fired up. “It happened.”
她轻轻叹了口气。“太迟了，它发生了，”蔡尔兹在大选日就快到来之际说道。这次，她的激情似乎没太被这场盛事点燃。
It did happen. And then came this.
它的确发生了。后来就有了这番景象。
A New York Times/CBS News poll this month found that 82 percent of voters felt more disgusted than excited about American politics because of this campaign. Ninety-seven percent of Donald Trump supporters said a Hillary Clinton presidency would make them scared or concerned. Ninety-five percent of Clinton supporters said the same of a Trump administration.
《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)本月开展的民意调查显示，由于这一轮选举活动的缘故，美国政治让82％的选民感到厌恶而非兴奋。唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的支持者中有97%的人表示，如果希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)当选总统，他们会感到害怕或者担忧。克林顿的支持者中有95%的人对特朗普政府抱有同样的态度。
There is a tendency to sanitize bygone political eras in the retelling, to draw straight lines where squiggles belong. Surely some signposts of unrest were discernible many exits ago — the rise in income inequality, scraping away at the middle class; the preponderance of partisan news media; congressional functionality morphing from labored to gridlocked to hopeless.
人们总有一种在复述中美化过往政治时代的倾向，在本该画上波浪线的地方画上直线。显然，早在很久以前路过一些出口的时候，就依稀可见代表着动荡不安的指示牌——日益加剧的不平等让中产阶级出现萎缩；党派化媒体占据优势；国会功能的发挥从吃力变成僵局又变成毫无希望。
Such bitter divisions had flared long before Trump seared his surname onto the democratic process. “Hamilton,” the acclaimed Broadway musical, after all, crests with a fatal gunfight between statesmen.
这类苦涩的分歧其来有自，比特朗普把自己的姓氏烙在民主进程上的时间早很多。毕竟，《汉密尔顿》(Hamilton)这部广受好评的百老汇音乐剧，便是以政治家之间的致命枪战为高潮。
And for all the rose-colored tributes to John McCain and Mitt Romney, who are now held up by Democrats as exemplars of erstwhile Republican honor and sanity, many Obama supporters once seethed at the sight of them — and, for at least a few months of 2008, of Clinton, too.
约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)眼下被民主党人推为体现共和党人昔日操守和理性的典范，收获了大量的溢美之词，但曾几何时，奥巴马的支持者一看到这两个人就怒气冲冲——而且，至少在2008年的几个月里，他们看到克林顿时也是这个态度。
So much was bound to get worse before it got better. People lost jobs, savings, homes. Some looked at the president and saw distance, fecklessness, insufficiency. Most were not outright bigots.
有太多事情注定在还没来得及变得更好之前变得更糟。人们失去了工作、储蓄、房子。一些人看向总统，看到了冷漠、无能、能力的不足。而这其中的大多数人都不是彻头彻尾的偏执狂。
Still.
话又说回来。
Norms had been threatened before 2016, but never bulldozed with such ease.
规则在2016年之前便受到了威胁，但从未被人如此轻易地践踏。
Truth has often felt contested, but never so thoroughly subjective.
真相向来常有争议，但从未如此彻底地成为主观的东西。
There have been crusades against political correctness, but never a national reckoning over the propriety of boasting about sexual assault.
人们一直在反对政治正确，但从未出现过举国上下都在思索夸耀性侵他人之举是否恰当的情况。
“It’s like with family or a friend or someone you’re dating. And you say, ‘Let’s just be honest!'” said George Saunders, the author and essayist, who chronicled Trump supporters for The New Yorker in July. “Then they are, and it’s like, ‘Oh, God.'”
“就像是跟家人、朋友或者约会对象在一起。你说，‘让我们有啥说啥吧！’”作家及评论家乔治·桑德斯(George Saunders)说。“然后他们真的有啥说啥了，你的内心独白则是，‘我的天哪。’”桑德斯在7月份为《纽约客》撰写过与特朗普的支持者有关的文章。
This unburdening has redrawn 2008 as something of a utopia in hindsight, taunting the present with its flights of inspiration, its relative high-mindedness, its basic civility most of the time.
这种告白让2008年在事后被重新描绘为某种类似于乌托邦的东西，借助当年那种欢欣鼓舞，相对的高尚道德，以及大多数情况下还算文明的言行，对当下加以嘲弄。
Though Obama commanded about 53 percent of the popular vote, 74 percent of Americans said they felt positively about his election, according to a Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll in December 2008.
《洛杉矶时报》(Los Angeles Times)和彭博社(Bloomberg)在2008年12月开展的一项民调显示，尽管奥巴马只获得了53%的大众选票，但有74％的美国人表示，他们对他的选举过程持正面看法。
Any present traces of that race register now as dizzying distortions, shards culled from a fun-house mirror.
眼下，那场选举遗留的所有痕迹都出现了令人眼花缭乱的扭曲，成为了一面哈哈镜破碎后的碎片。
McCain’s captivity in combat was invoked by Trump as an argument against his heroism.
特朗普曾援引麦凯恩在战斗中被俘的经历，作为否定其英雄气概的理由。
McCain’s memorably pointed defense of Obama after a voter labeled him “an Arab” has given way to a Republican nominee advocating a ban on Muslims entering the United States.
麦凯恩则曾在一名选民给奥巴马贴上“一个阿拉伯人”的标签时站出来大力维护奥巴马，令人印象深刻。而现在，一名共和党总统候选人竟然提议禁止穆斯林进入美国。
McCain, in conceding, hailed the historic moment: “Sen. Obama has achieved a great thing for himself and for his country.” Trump has not committed to accepting the results of the election.
麦凯恩认输时曾为具有历史意义的一刻欢呼：“奥巴马参议员为自己也为国家赢得了伟大的胜利。”而特朗普还没做出会接受大选结果的承诺。
In fact, many Republicans insisted then that they hoped to see Obama succeed.
事实上，许多共和党人都曾坚称，他们当时希望看到奥巴马取得胜利。
But there were two sides in 2008, too, and many millions of voters dismayed at the outcome.
但2008年也是一体两面的，千百万选民都对大选结果感到失望。
McCain’s running mate, Sarah Palin, helped coax what became the Tea Party into full bloom — an insurgency that helped spawn Trump’s own — exporting the boiling anger from her campaign events to a mass audience, even as some McCain aides expressed horror at what they had wrought.
麦凯恩的竞选搭档萨拉·佩林(Sarah Palin)帮助发起了茶党运动，并推动其进入了全盛期——这种反叛帮助催生了特朗普自己的反叛运动——她把源自竞选活动的熊熊怒火传递给了大众，尽管麦凯恩的一些助手曾对这些所作所为表现得又惊又怒。
Many conservatives see a throughline from Palin’s treatment by the national news media, which they viewed as unfair and condescending, to the heightened distrust of traditional news sources. This context, they say, can account for the otherwise genial-looking Americans now prone to screaming obscenities at reporters during Trump rallies.
许多保守派人士在全国性新闻媒体对待佩林的态度——他们视之为不公平的、居高临下的态度——和世人对传统新闻来源的高度不信任之间，看到了直接的关联。他们说，这就可以解释，为什么原本看似和善的美国人，会在支持特朗普的集会上对记者爆出粗口。
Obama ascended with impossible expectations, largely of his own making. His preferred successor would take office on the assumption that precious little will be permitted to change.
奥巴马上台时背负着主要是由他自己制造的不切实际的预期。他青睐的继任者入主白宫所基于的假设会是：几乎所有的一切都不会得到改变。
It is a sobering turn for those overjoyed at the prospect of a female president.
对那些因为可能即将迎来一位女总统而喜出望外的人来说，这是一个引人深思的转折。
It is also a grim confirmation of Clinton’s argument against Obama in the first place. It was she who, in 2008, seemed to mock the wide-eyed sunniness of his message in the Democratic primary, the self-assurance that sheer force of personality would be enough.
此外，这等于是冷酷地证明了希拉里当初反对奥巴马的理论是正确的。她在2008年似乎嘲弄了奥巴马在民主党初选中所传递的天真乐观的信息，以及全凭个性的力量便足以成事的那种自信。
“The sky will open, the light will come down, celestial choirs will be singing,” Clinton faux-predicted at one campaign stop, forecasting an Obama presidency, “and everyone will know we should do the right thing and the world will be perfect.”
“天空将不再被遮蔽，阳光将倾泻而下，天堂颂歌将被唱响，”克林顿曾在一个竞选宣传活动上就奥巴马当选总统的前景进行预测时，假装做出预言，“人人都将知道我们该从善如流，世界将完美无瑕。”
She shrugged.
她耸了耸肩。
“Maybe I’ve just lived a little long,” Clinton said then, “but I have no illusions about how hard this is going to be.”
“也许我活得稍微长了一点，”她当时说道，“所以知道会有多难，我没有任何幻想。”