What's the right strategy for dealing with a world increasingly divided between zones of order and disorder? For starters, you’d better understand the forces of disorder, like Boko Haram or the Islamic State. These are gangs of young men who are telling us in every way possible that our rules no longer apply. Reason cannot touch them, because rationalism never drove them. Their barbarism comes from a dark place, where radical Islam gives a sense of community to humiliated, drifting young men, who have never held a job or a girl’s hand. That’s a toxic mix.
世界越来越多地分割成有秩序和无秩序的区域，要应对这样的局面，怎样才是正确的战略？首先，我们必须更好地了解无秩序方面的各股势力，如博科圣地(Boko Haram)或伊斯兰国(Islamic State)。这些年轻男子组成的派系正在以各种可能的方式告诉我们，我们的规则已经不再适用。他们不可理喻，因为驱动他们的并不是理性。他们的野蛮行径来自一个阴暗的地方，在那里，极端伊斯兰为受到羞辱、感到迷茫的年轻男子提供了归属感，这些男青年从来没有过工作，也从来没有牵过女孩的手。两种情况相混合，造成了可怕的后果。
It’s why Orit Perlov, an Israeli expert on Arab social networks, keeps telling me that since I can’t visit the Islamic State, which is known as ISIS, and interview its leaders, the next best thing would be to see “Batman: The Dark Knight.” In particular, she drew my attention to this dialogue between Bruce Wayne and Alfred Pennyworth:
正因如此，研究阿拉伯社会网络的以色列专家奥瑞特·佩罗夫(Orit Perlov)不断告诉我，既然我不能访问伊斯兰国（又称ISIS），并采访其领导人，次优选择就是看一看《蝙蝠侠：黑暗骑士》(Batman: The Dark Knight)。具体而言，她让我关注布鲁斯·韦恩(Bruce Wayne)和阿福(Alfred Pennyworth)之间的这段对白：
Bruce Wayne: “I knew the mob wouldn’t go down without a fight, but this is different. They crossed the line.”
韦恩：“我知道要扳倒暴民没那么容易，肯定要打一场。但这次不同，他们过线了。”
Alfred Pennyworth: “You crossed the line first, sir. You squeezed them. You hammered them to the point of desperation. And, in their desperation, they turned to a man they didn’t fully understand.”
阿福：“是你先跨越了界限，先生。你逼迫他们，把他们推上了绝路，然后在绝望之中，他们求助于一个连他们自己都不十分了解的人。”
Bruce Wayne: “Criminals aren’t complicated, Alfred. Just have to figure out what he’s after.”
韦恩：“罪犯们并不复杂，阿福。只需要知道他要的是什么。”
Alfred Pennyworth: “With respect, Master Wayne, perhaps this is a man that you don’t fully understand, either. A long time ago, I was in Burma. My friends and I were working for the local government. They were trying to buy the loyalty of tribal leaders by bribing them with precious stones. But their caravans were being raided in a forest north of Rangoon by a bandit. So we went looking for the stones. But, in six months, we never met anybody who traded with him. One day, I saw a child playing with a ruby the size of a tangerine. The bandit had been throwing them away.”
阿福：“恕我直言，韦恩少爷，大概你也不十分了解这个人。很久以前，我在缅甸，和我的朋友们为当地政府效力。他们试图用宝石，来收买地方上的部落头领。但他们的车队还是在仰光以北的森林里，被强盗劫走了。所以我们去查找那些宝石的下落。一直等了半年，我们没有见到任何人买卖那些宝石。有天，我看到一个孩子，在拿一个橘子大的红宝石玩耍。原来强盗把宝石扔掉了。”
Bruce Wayne: “So why steal them?”
韦恩：“那为什么还要偷呢？”
Alfred Pennyworth: “Well, because he thought it was good sport. Because some men aren’t looking for anything logical, like money. They can’t be bought, bullied, reasoned, or negotiated with. Some men just want to watch the world burn. ...”
阿福：“因为他们觉得这是找乐子呀。因为有些人想要的不是任何符合逻辑的东西，比如钱。没办法收买他们、威吓他们，也没办法和他们谈判、讲道理。有些人只想让世界毁灭。”
Bruce Wayne: “The bandit, in the forest in Burma, did you catch him?”
韦恩：“缅甸森林里的那个强盗，你们后来抓到了吗？”
Alfred Pennyworth: “Yes.”
阿福：“抓到了。”
Bruce Wayne: “How?”
韦恩：“怎么抓的？”
Alfred Pennyworth: “We burned the forest down.”
阿福：“我们把森林烧掉了。”
We can’t just burn down Syria or Iraq or Nigeria. But there is a strategy for dealing with the world of disorder that I’d summarize with this progression:
可我们不能直接烧掉叙利亚、伊拉克或者尼日利亚。但是有一种战略可以应对失序的世界，我将之概述为以下步骤：
Where there is disorder — think Libya, Iraq, Syria, Mali, Chad, Somalia — collaborate with every source of local, regional and international order to contain the virus until the barbarism burns itself out. These groups can’t govern, so ultimately locals will seek alternatives.
在失序的地方，比如在利比亚、伊拉克、叙利亚、马里、乍得、索马里，要与当地、地区以及国际社会所有维持秩序的力量合作，一道遏制病毒的蔓延，直至野蛮行径引火烧身。那些团体无法开展治理，当地人最终会寻求其他途径。
Where there is top-down order — think Egypt or Saudi Arabia — try to make it more decent and inclusive.
在那些存在自上而下的秩序的地方，比如埃及、沙特阿拉伯，尝试着让它们变得更体面、更具包容性。
Where there is order plus decency — think Jordan, Morocco, Kurdistan, the United Arab Emirates — try to make it more consensual and effective, again to make it more sustainable.
在那些存在秩序而且体面的地方，比如约旦、摩洛哥、库尔德斯坦、阿拉伯联合酋长国，努力扩大其共识，让它们更有效，从而更具持久性。
Where there is order plus democracy — think Tunisia — do all you can to preserve and strengthen it with financial and security assistance, so it can become a model for emulation by the states and peoples around it.
在有秩序而且有民主的地方，如突尼斯，尽可能地通过财政和安全支持，来保护和增强它，从而让它成为一个周边国家和民族效仿的楷模。
And be humble. We don’t have the wisdom, resources or staying power to do anything more than contain these organisms, until the natural antibodies from within emerge.
此外，还要谦逊。我们没有足够的智慧、资源或持久的力量，除了遏制这些势力之外，做不了什么，要一直等到其天然抗体从内部产生出来。
In the Arab world, it may take longer for those natural antibodies to coalesce, and that is worrying, argues Francis Fukuyama, the Stanford political scientist whose new, widely discussed book, “Political Order and Political Decay,” is a historical study of how decent states emerge. What they all have in common is a strong and effective state bureaucracy that can deliver governance, the rule of law and regular rotations in power.
斯坦福大学(Stanford)政治学家弗朗西斯·福山(Francis Fukuyama)提出，在阿拉伯世界，让这些天然抗体凝聚起来所需的时间或许会更长。福山的新书《政治秩序和政治衰败》(Political Order and Political Decay)对体面政府的产生进行了历史研究，这本书引起了广泛的讨论。体面政府的共同之处在于，存在强大、有效的国家官僚体制，能够施政、维持法治和进行定期的权力轮替。