There are times when the endless crises and conflicts of our times reach such paroxysms of senseless tragedy that the world cries out for a halt.
我们的时代无止境的危机和冲突，有时引起如此突如其来的无谓惨剧，以至于这个世界迫切需要一个暂停。
The strife in eastern Ukraine made little sense even before it brought down a civilian jetliner, taking the lives of 298 passengers and crew members with no connection whatsoever to the fight. The outcry was immediate, and the bulk of it was focused on Russia for its support — denied but obvious — for pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine.
乌克兰东部的争纷即使在此前也让人难以理解，现在争纷已导致一架民用客机被击落，机上298名乘客和机组人员的生命被剥夺，而这些死去的人与斗争没有任何联系。强烈抗议马上随之而来，大部分是针对俄罗斯对乌克兰东部的亲俄反政府武装的支持，虽然俄罗斯否认，但支持是明摆着的事。
According to American officials, the Malaysia Airlines jetliner, Flight 17 from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, was shot down by a missile fired from rebel-held territory in eastern Ukraine, and the rebels had previously bragged about capturing a missile battery from the Ukrainian Army.
据美国官员说，从阿姆斯特丹飞往吉隆坡的马来西亚航空公司17号班机，被发射自乌克兰东部叛军控制的领土的一枚导弹击落，叛军此前曾吹嘘从乌克兰军队手中缴获了导弹排炮。
The rebels and Russia denied responsibility. But for American and European leaders, the ultimate culprit was the vendetta Russia has waged against Ukraine by sanctioning the flow of men and arms to rebellious areas.
叛军和俄罗斯都拒绝承担责任。但在美国和欧洲领导人看来，最终的罪魁祸首，是俄罗斯通过允许人力和武器不断流入反叛地区，对乌克兰展开的复仇战。
In a tough statement on Friday, President Obama stopped just short of putting responsibility at the feet of President Vladimir V. Putin. It was not by chance, Mr. Obama said, that the insurgents were well armed: “That is happening because of Russian support.”
美国总统奥巴马在上周五发表的严正声明中，几乎把责任放到俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的头上。奥巴马说，叛乱分子有很好的武器不是偶然的：“那是因为得到了俄罗斯的支持。”
The tumult over Ukraine coincided with an acute escalation of the 10-day duel between Hamas and Israel as Israeli tanks churned into Gaza to hunt down militants raining rockets on Israel. There was a dismal familiarity to the images of destruction and bloodshed, and the terrible sense that this was what Hamas had intended to provoke all along, and Israel was once again unable to avoid.
乌克兰的混乱恰逢哈马斯和以色列之间的10天斗打急速升级之时，为了抓捕向以色列发射火箭弹的武装分子，以色列的坦克正开足马力驶入加沙。人们对这些破坏和流血的场面有一种悲哀的熟悉感，也有一种可怕的感觉，那就是哈马斯自始至终想要挑衅，而以色列又一次无法回避。
But the downing of the Malaysian jetliner, after another Malaysian plane had gone missing, overshadowed the Middle Eastern drama.
但是，马来西亚客机被击落一事，让中东的戏剧性发展显得逊色，前不久马航有另一架客机失踪。
A day before the plane was shot down, the United States had sharpened sanctions against Russia, and Europe had followed suit with milder measures, both charging that despite conciliatory statements and gestures, Mr. Putin was continuing to fan the flames in eastern Ukraine. Russian markets promptly took a tumble.
在客机被击落的前一天，美国已加强了对俄罗斯的制裁，欧洲也采取了相应措施，虽然不如美国的强，美国和欧洲都指责普京，虽然做出了愿意和解的表示，但却继续在乌克兰东部煽风点火。俄罗斯的股市马上随之暴跌。
Mr. Putin’s initial reaction was a predictable claim that the United States was entirely to blame for the “fratricidal war” in Ukraine, and that sanctions would primarily hurt Americans. That has been Mr. Putin’s line ever since he orchestrated the annexation of Crimea in February — that Russia is the victim of an aggressive and unjust American foreign policy intended to “contain” Russia, a deliberate echo of America’s Cold War policy of “containment.”
普京最初的反应不难预测，他声称乌克兰“自相残杀的战争”完全归咎于美国，而制裁主要会伤害美国人的利益。自从今年2月份普京精心策划了吞并克里米亚之后，他一直坚持这个说法：俄罗斯是具有侵略性且不公正的美国外交政策的受害者，美国旨在“遏制”俄罗斯，这是蓄意重演美国冷战期间的“遏制”政策。
Yet while the annexation of Crimea and the pique over real or perceived humiliations could be understood, even if not justified, it has been harder to understand why Mr. Putin has persisted in supporting the rebels in eastern Ukraine for so long. He has shown no intention of annexing the eastern regions, yet he appears intent on keeping the flames burning with ever more casualties and dangers, and at ever higher costs to the Russian economy.
然而，虽然人们可以理解吞并克里米亚，以及对实际的或自我感觉的羞辱的愤怒，尽管不合法理，但很难理解为什么普京这么长时间地坚持支持乌克兰东部的叛军。他并没有表现出吞并乌克兰东部地区的意图，但他似乎执意要让战火继续下去，造成更多的人员伤亡和危险，给俄罗斯经济带来越来越高的代价。
One goal is clearly to ensure that Russia’s allies gain control over the provinces adjacent to Russia. Another is to demonstrate to the West that Russia will resist any new attempt to infringe on what Russians perceive as their sphere of influence. There is also a political advantage to these actions: the tough assertion of Russian interests, and the claim that he is standing up to America, have given Mr. Putin a strong political boost at home, where his fortunes had been flagging.
一个目标显然是为了确保俄罗斯的盟友能控制毗邻俄罗斯的乌克兰省份。另一个目标是向西方展示，俄罗斯将抵制任何侵犯俄罗斯人认为属于自己势力范围的新尝试。这些行动也得到一个政治好处：对俄罗斯利益的强硬主张，以及声称自己站在美国的对立面，让普京在国内得到了强有力的政治声势，他在国内的前途曾一度出现下坡。
In any case, Mr. Putin has deemed it in his interest to sustain the crisis instead of seeking to consolidate whatever gains he expects at the negotiating table. Until now.
不管怎么说，普京一直认为，维持危机，而不是寻求巩固任何他能在谈判桌上预期的收获，有利于自己的利益。直到现在。
The destruction of the Malaysian airliner abruptly changes the calculation. If it is confirmed that the jet was shot down by insurgents, Mr. Putin will be likely to find himself isolated globally and forced to cut the rebels loose. And if he fails to do so now, the possibility of a far more severe escalation of sanctions from an outraged Europe becomes much greater. As Mr. Obama put it, “We don’t have time for propaganda, we don’t have time for games.”
马来西亚客机的毁灭急剧地改变了这一算计。如果证实飞机是叛乱分子击落的话，普京将有可能发现自己在全球处于孤立地位，从而不得不切断对叛乱分子的支持。如果他现在不这样做的话，愤怒的欧洲采取新一轮更严厉制裁的可能性将变得更大。正如奥巴马所说的那样，“我们没有时间搞宣传，我们没有时间玩游戏。”
Israel Against Hamas 
以色列对哈马斯
In sharp contrast to the utterly unexpected twist in the Ukrainian story, the events in Israel and Gaza seemed to follow a well-practiced choreography: Palestinian provocations, powerful Israeli retaliation, fierce condemnation of Israel for the inevitably disproportionate casualties. As of Friday, the death toll in recent fighting stood at more than 270 Palestinians, many of them civilians, and two Israelis.
与乌克兰故事发生的完全意想不到的转折形成鲜明对比的是，在以色列和加沙发生的事件似乎按照一个排练好的表演进行：巴勒斯坦的挑衅，以色列强有力的报复，针对不可避免的不成比例的伤亡而对以色列的激烈谴责。
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, a veteran of many such clashes, seemed to anticipate the backlash in remarks to a special cabinet meeting on Friday, made public by his office. The army had no choice but to enter Gaza to close off tunnels the Hamas militants were using to sneak into Israel, he said.
多次经历这种冲突的以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)，在总理办公室发布的他上周五在内阁特别会议上的讲话中，似乎对这种强烈批评有预期。他说，为了封闭哈马斯武装分子用以偷袭以色列的地道，军队必须进入加沙，别无选择。
“I know that in such campaigns, global public opinion always receives a distorted picture of the campaign,” Mr. Netanyahu said. “This is unavoidable. But, unlike in the past, this time there are many in the international community who understand that it is Hamas — and Hamas alone — that is responsible for the victims. This is important for the state of Israel.”
“我知道，在这种进攻中，世界公共舆论总是得到一种对进攻的歪曲描述，”内塔尼亚胡说。“这是不可避免的。但是，与过去不同的是，这一次，国际社会上有很多人明白，哈马斯、而且只有哈马斯，才应该对受害者承担责任。这对以色列这个国家来说很重要。”
From the White House, Mr. Obama said he had spoken by telephone to Mr. Netanyahu to reaffirm his “strong support for Israel’s right to defend itself,” but also to express concern “about the risks of further escalation and the loss of more innocent life.”
奥巴马在白宫说，他已与内塔尼亚胡通过电话，他重申了“对以色列自卫权利的大力支持”，但也对冲突“进一步升级的风险、以及更多无辜生命的损失”表示担忧。
In its first day, the Israeli offensive seemed to operate near the borders of Gaza, apparently targeting the Hamas tunnels. But Mr. Netanyahu said he had ordered the military to “prepare for the possibility of significantly widening the ground operation.”
在行动的第一天，以色列的攻击似乎是在加沙边境附近展开，显然是针对哈马斯的地道。但内塔尼亚胡说，他已下令军队“为较大规模地扩大地面行动的可能性做好准备”。