A trip to the local barbershop, from Beijing to Beirut, gives one man an entree into the customs and people of each country he visits — as well as a smooth shave.
一个男人在世界各地的理发店里——从北京到贝鲁特——看到了每个国家的风俗人情，当然胡子也刮得很干净。
Ten years ago, I began dating a woman from Lebanon. The first thing she did when I moved in was to throw out my seersucker. The second thing was to ask me to grow a beard.
十年前，我开始与一个黎巴嫩女人约会。我搬到她家后她做的第一件事是扔掉我的泡泡纱衬衫。第二件事是让我留胡子。
In the Middle East, a man without hair on his face is a boy, and given that I was also 13 years younger than her, the need for some growth was doubly pressing. I did my best and grew out a bit of stubble. But now what? There’s a fine line between intentional growth and looking unkempt or hung over. I bought clippers. All of them broke, or turned on during cross-country flights, sounding suspiciously like another electronic item.
在中东地区，没胡子的男人被认为是孩子，而且我比她小13岁，需要显得老成，所以我有双重压力。我努力蓄了点胡茬。但是又有了新麻烦。刻意留出来的胡子和蓬乱或因为宿醉未剃须之间还是有明显界限的。我买了修剪工具。但是它们不是坏了，就是在跨国飞行中被没收了，而且它们听起来像另一种电子设备。
On a trip to Barcelona, I passed by a barbershop and, on an impulse, ducked in. Spaniards know a thing or two about how to keep a permanent 5 o’clock shadow. Within minutes, they’d sorted me out. I discovered that it was easy enough to learn the verb “to shave” in many more languages, and there’s nothing quite like exposing one’s neck to the knives of the world to experience the thin blade of civility that unites us.
一次去巴塞罗那，我经过一个专营剃须修面的理发店，一时兴起，我冲了进去。西班牙人很擅长修理胡渣。没几分钟，他们就修好了。我发现学更多语言中“刮胡子”的说法还算容易，而且没什么比把脖子暴露给世界各地的剃刀、体验礼仪锋利的刀刃更能把我们团结起来了。
I’ve been tipped back on rubber chairs in London. I’ve been plunged into the sort of debate that rages in salons de coiffure in Beirut, when my barber seemed to be taking a poll of his other customers about where my neckline should stop. During the shave, which took an hour, he drank four espressos. A gentleman of 60 sitting by the door caught sight of a remaining ear hair and pointed it out triumphantly. In Turkey, barbers take their time. Within a stone’s throw of the Blue Mosque in Istanbul, my girlfriend and I nestled into a tiny shop perfumed with talc and tonic. One man was relaxing into the ear depilation that in that part of the world begins not long after puberty. The barbers politely rippled at the presence of a woman.
在伦敦，我被放倒在橡胶椅子上。在贝鲁特，我卷入了那里的理发店流行的某种辩论——我的修面师似乎在让其他顾客对我的领口应该开多大而投票。在给我刮胡子的一个小时里，他喝了四杯浓咖啡。坐在门口的一个60岁的老先生发现我耳朵边有一点汗毛没刮到，得意地指了出来。在土耳其，修面师们很悠闲。在离伊斯坦布尔蓝色清真寺不远的地方，我和女朋友走进一个弥漫着滑石粉和杜松子酒香味的小店里。一个男人正在放松地接受耳朵脱毛——在那个地方，青春期之后不久就要开始耳朵脱毛。看到有女人来，修面师们礼貌地交头接耳了一会儿。
The swarthier a place, the better its barbers will be, and vice versa. In Beijing, my barber mowed my face like a lawn. In Norway, the cleanshaven guy discussed waxing. You never know what the perks will be: My Uzbek barber in Manhattan serves me vodka with my shave. My Bulgarian barber advised me where to get a sandwich, and in São Paulo, I was told where to go dancing.
肤色越深的国家，修面师越棒；反之亦然。在北京，修面师给我刮胡子就像在割草。在挪威，那个把胡子刮得干干净净的男人在考虑打蜡。你永远不知道你会得到什么福利：我在曼哈顿的乌兹别克修面师送了我一杯伏特加酒。保加利亚的修面师告诉我上哪儿能吃到好吃的三明治，圣保罗的修面师告诉我能去哪儿跳舞。
Way up in the Atlas Mountains, two hours from Marrakesh, in a food market taking place on a carpet of severed lambs’ heads, I once found a tent and several gentlemen plying their knives at beards much more impressive than mine. I drew a small crowd of onlookers when I took my seat. A long discussion in Arabic revolved around how the blade had been sanitized — with alcohol, my Moroccan friend assured me in English, but his eyes were worried. I closed mine and soon felt the barber’s breath on my temples. I emerged unscathed, but for two palmprints of sweat I’d nervously left on my thighs.
从马拉喀什沿着阿特拉斯山脉向上走两个小时，我来到一个食品市场，地上放着几个割下来的羊头，我找到一个帐篷，几个男人正在刮胡子，那些胡子比我的醒目得多。我坐下后，引来了几个围观者。我们用阿拉伯语交谈了半天，讨论刀片是怎么消毒的——我的摩洛哥朋友用英语向我保证是用酒精消毒的，但是他的眼神流露出担忧。我闭上眼睛，很快感受到修面师在我的太阳穴旁紧张的呼吸声。我没有被刮伤，但是由于紧张，我的大腿上留下了两个汗手印。
There’s an intimacy to being barbered that I find oddly reassuring when far from home. A good barber will push and knead at your face before beginning, as if it is dough. He will lean in close and occasionally stroke the area he has just shaved, in a sort of appreciation. Most of us have not been touched this way since we were babies.
远离家乡时，刮胡子时的亲密让我感受到一种奇怪的抚慰。一个好的修面师在开始前会按摩你的脸，像在揉面团。他会俯下身，离你很近，偶尔带着欣赏之情轻抚他刚剃过的地方。我们大部分人长大后都没有被这样抚摸过。
But taking a private ritual and making it public isn’t supposed to make the world your living room or kitchen or toilet for that matter. It’s meant to make the world seem more familiar and to give us a foothold when traveling. This is why we go out for coffee or get a drink at a bar. Knowing that so many others have these needs, and that they can be satisfied, even with a bit of style, is reassuring.
但是在公开场合进行这个私密仪式不是为了让世界变成你的客厅、厨房或卫生间；而是为了让这个世界看起来更亲切，让我们在旅行中有个立足点。这就是我们出去喝咖啡或者去酒吧喝酒的原因。知道还有这么多人有同样的需求，而且这些需求能够被满足——甚至带着一丝风雅——让人觉得欣慰。
When I moved to London five years ago to start a job, my first order of business was to find a new barber. I lived in Notting Hill, on a blocklong row of limestone townhouses so tidy it made one think no one in history had ever had to shave. To get to a barber, I’d go to Shepherd’s Bush, where evidence of London’s teeming multiplicity was everywhere: Moroccan tagine joints, Iranian beauty parlors, a century-old market where you could buy anything from a freshly slaughtered pig to saris to one of the best falafels in the city.
五年前我搬去伦敦工作时，第一个议程就是找个新修面师。我住在诺丁山，那个石灰岩联排别墅有一个街区长，特别整洁，让人以为历史上从来没人需要刮胡子。为了找个修面师，我得去谢泼兹布什区，那里随处都是伦敦丰富多样性的明证：摩洛哥泰琼锅羊肉，伊朗美容店，还有个有100年历史的市场，你在那里什么都能买到：刚宰好的猪肉、莎丽，以及这个城市里最好吃的沙拉三明治。
After a few failures, I found my place. It was a small shop with three Kurdish guys working under the name Jazz’s Barbers. The walls were made of a fake varnished wood and the barber sheet they tossed over me was bright orange. No matter. For a fiver, I could get an excellent whisker trim while a 1950s radio played 1980s hits. I visited London recently and, out of nostalgia, went back to Jazz’s. As always, the main barber nodded toward the bench, where I could wait. Another smiled. Now there was a woman barber too! But otherwise it was as if I had never left. Life at Jazz’s was going on much as before.
经过几次失败的尝试，我找到了一个中意的地方。它是个小店，里面有三个库尔德人，店名叫爵士乐理发店(Jazz’s Barbers)。那里的墙壁是涂漆的人造板，他们披在我身上的遮布是明橙色的。没关系。只要花五英镑，我的胡须就能得到精心修剪，还能从一个50年代的收音机里收听80年代的流行歌曲。最近我去了趟伦敦，出于怀旧之情，我来到爵士乐理发店。像往常一样，大师傅点头示意我坐在长凳上等待。另一位修面师对我笑了一下。现在那里还有了个女修面师！要不是因为这个变化，我感觉自己从没离开过。爵士乐理发店的生活跟从前没有什么两样。
This lack of sentimentality, and the getting on with it, has always seemed to me the epitome of manliness. There’s comfort in the silence that surrounds necessaries. For these reasons, I would take 45 minutes in a barber’s chair over an hour on any therapist’s couch. There’s so little we can actually control in this world, but even the unruliest beard can be managed. When I want to feel fresh and ready to tackle something new, I go in for what’s known in the trade as a wet shave, which includes the works: hot towels, foam, straight razor. At the end of my last London trip I went to Pall Mall Barbers’ swank Fitzrovia shop. Tucked just off the square where Virginia Woolf and George Bernard Shaw once lived, it was everything you’d expect a luxury London barber to be.
不多愁善感，而且对此习以为常，对我来说一直是男子气概的特征。除了不得不说的话，其他时候保持沉默，让人觉得舒服。因此，我宁愿在修面师的椅子上坐45分钟，也不想在心理医生的沙发上坐一个小时。这个世界上我们真正能控制的东西非常少，但是连最不守规矩的胡子都是可以驾驭的。当我想让自己焕然一新，为解决新难题做好准备时，我会点行话里所说的“湿刮”，用到的工具包括热毛巾、泡沫和直剃刀。我的上次伦敦之旅快结束时，我去了蓓尔美尔理发店(Pall Mall Barbers)在弗兹洛维亚区华丽的分店。它位于弗吉尼亚·伍尔夫(Virginia Woolf)和乔治·萧伯纳(George Bernard)曾住过的广场的一角。那里能满足你对一个奢华的伦敦理发店的所有期待。
The tiles were gleaming white, the countertops granite and the barber’s brush was made of badger, not horsehair. My barber looked a lot like Stanley Tucci, but spoke with a South London accent. Happily, he stopped talking once he began shaving. All I could feel was the gentle sweep of his blade, his occasional request for more hot towels. Time slowed down. I no longer had my long-lost seersucker, but all else was right with the world.
那里的瓷砖洁白发亮，工作台是花岗岩的，修面师的刷子是用獾毛做的，而不是马毛。我的修面师长得很像斯坦利·图奇(Stanley Tucci)，只不过操着伦敦南部的口音。让人高兴的是，他一开始刮胡子就不再说话了。我只能感受到他的剃刀轻柔地划过，他偶尔索要更多热毛巾。时间慢了下来。我早已失去那件泡泡纱衬衫，但是其他的一切如此美好。