As of late Monday afternoon, when I was finishing this column, the most frequently emailed story on The Times’s website for the previous week wasn’t about the polar vortex, Chris Christie or “Downton Abbey.”
截止周一临近傍晚我的这篇专栏完稿时，上周《纽约时报》网站被邮件分享最多的文章不是关于极地涡旋、克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)或《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbe)的。
It was about cats.
那篇文章说的是猫。
I suppose that’s no big shock. On blogs, on Facebook and all around the Internet, claws and clicks go hand in hand (or is that paw in paw?). While the meek may be inheriting the earth, the furry have already claimed cyberspace.
我估计这不算什么惊人的事。在博客、Facebook乃至整个互联网中，爪印和点击总是手拉手的（是不是得说爪拉爪？）。大地也许是由温良的人承继着，但网络空间已经被毛绒动物占领。
But what is surprising — and indicative of a new chapter in the interactions of Americans and the animals around us — is the focus of the cat story in question.
不过此事意外之处在于前述那篇关于猫的文章的关注点，它也显露出了美国人与身边动物的互动翻开了一个新的篇章。
It wasn’t about kittens doing the darnedest things. Under the headline “What Your Cat Is Thinking,” it examined the new book “Cat Sense,” by a British biologist, John Bradshaw, who flags his seriousness of purpose with his subtitle, “How the New Feline Science Can Make You a Better Friend to Your Pet.” Bradshaw means to get into the cat brain.
它讲的不是猫咪在做一些极端的事情。这篇文章以《你的猫在想什么》为题，对英国生物学家约翰·布拉德肖(John Bradshaw)的新书《猫感》(Cat Sense)加以研判，这本书的副标题“新一代猫科学让你和你的宠物更融洽”展现了作者的严肃意图，布拉德肖是打算深入到猫的头脑中的。
He’s already plumbed its canine counterpart, in the 2011 book “Dog Sense,” which was also grounded in research, not sentiment, and in the idea that pets have inner lives more complicated than we imagine. “Dog Sense” was published just two years after the huge best seller “Inside of a Dog,” by the psychology professor Alexandra Horowitz, which pivoted on the same notion.
在2011年出版的《狗感》(Dog Sense)中，他已经对犬类进行过探究，那本书同样以科学而非感情为依据，提出宠物的内在思维比我们想象的要复杂得多。《狗感》距离那本大卖特卖的《一只狗的内心》(Inside of a Dog)的出版仅仅过去两年，后者为心理学教授亚历山德拉·霍罗威茨(Alexandra Horowitz)所著，提出了相同的观点。
It was “Inside of a Dog” in particular that caught my friend Kerry Lauerman’s attention, cluing him in to a quickly shifting human perspective on animals.
《一只狗的内心》格外引起了我的朋友凯瑞·劳尔曼(Kerry Lauerman)的注意，让他意识到人类对动物的态度可能正在发生一场迅速的转变。
Lauerman wasn’t merely musing. He was explaining the rationale for a new website, The Dodo, that’s dedicated to animal news and features and made its debut this week. He’s its chief executive officer and editor in chief, and came to it from the influential online publication Salon, where he was the editor in chief from late 2010 to mid-2013.
劳尔曼并没有光是坐着空想。他在一个本周上线的新网站The Dodo上解释了自己的理论，这是一个发布动物相关新闻和专题文章的网站。他是网站的首席执行官兼主编，在这之前的2010年末到2013年中，他在极具影响力的在线刊物Salon任主编。
One of The Dodo’s principal financial backers is Ken Lerer, the current chairman of BuzzFeed and one of the founders of the Huffington Post. His daughter, Izzie Lerer, created and developed the site with Lauerman. Additionally, she’s finishing up her doctorate in philosophy at Columbia University, where her research focuses on the evolving compact between people and animals.
The Dodo的其中一位主要投资人是BuzzFeed现任主席、《赫芬顿邮报》(Huffington Post)创始人之一肯·勒尔(Ken Lerer)。他的女儿伊琪·勒尔(Izzie Lerer)和劳尔曼一同创建和开发了这个网站。此外她还即将拿到哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)哲学博士学位，她的研究方向是人和动物之间的契约演化。
The Dodo’s pedigree speaks to a broadening, deepening concern about animals that’s no longer sufficiently captured by the phrase “animal welfare.” An era of what might be called animal dignity is upon us. You see signs everywhere.
The Dodo的内容涉及到关于动物的方方面面，其广度和深度已经不能简单地以“动物福祉”来概括。我们可能将迎来一个叫做“动物尊严”的时代。相关的迹象随处可见。
A story in The Wall Street Journal on Sunday reported a sharp rise over the last few years in the fraction of American dog and cat owners with provisions in their wills for their pets. Nearly one in every 10 have made such arrangements.
《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)周日的一篇报道称，过去几年里，美国猫狗主人中将宠物写入遗嘱的比例有大幅上升。将近十分之一的猫狗主人做出了这样的安排。
One of the most fervently embraced documentaries of 2013 was “Blackfish,” shown over and over on CNN. It doesn’t just depict mistreatment of killer whales at SeaWorld; it makes the case that these glorious mammals have rich social and family connections and a profound capacity for grief.
在CNN上反复播放的《黑鱼》(Blackfish)是2013年最受欢迎的纪录片之一。影片不只是描述了海洋世界(SeaWorld)对虎鲸的虐待；还表明这种令人叹为观止的哺乳动物有着丰富的社交和家庭关系，以及对悲伤的深刻感受。
There’s been extensive discussion lately of elephants’ emotional lives, and Hillary Clinton, with her famously active political antenna, recently found time to narrate a documentary, “White Gold,” about the bloody wages of the ivory trade, and to speak at its premiere.
近年来对大象的情感生活有过非常充分的探讨，以政治触角敏锐著称的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)最近抽出时间给纪录片《白色黄金》(White Gold)配了画外音，并在这部关于血腥象牙交易的纪录片首映式上讲话。
People who go on lion hunts encounter stern public shaming. (The Dodo recounts a recent example.) Bill de Blasio has prioritized the retirement of Central Park’s carriage horses. Several prominent retailers, including Gap and H&M, stopped procuring angora last year after a widely shared video of the fur being yanked from rabbits’ bodies. The movement to accord chimpanzees and some other kinds of apes legal rights is accelerating, and greater scrutiny of food production has prompted keener disgust over the fate of many farm animals, along with state legislation to spare them florid suffering.
猎杀狮子的人遭公众唾弃。（The Dodo回顾了最近的一个案例。）比尔·德布拉西奥(Bill de Blasio)把中央公园拉车马匹的退役列为重点事项。自从一段纪录兔子被生生拔毛的视频广为流传后，包括Gap和H&M在内的许多知名零售商去年停止采购安哥拉兔毛。赋予黑猩猩及其他猿类法定权利的运动势头在增强。在对食品生产进行更密切的观察后，农场动物的命运令热心肠的人们感到厌恶，还出现了州一级的立法试图让它们免遭过多的折磨。
This is only going to build, because at the same time that scientific advances force us to gaze upon the animal kingdom with more respect, the proliferation of big and little cameras — of eyes everywhere — permits us to eavesdrop not just on animal play but also on animal persecution. It’s all documented, it all goes viral, and we can’t turn away, or claim ignorance, as easily as we once did.
这个势头只会继续增强，因为与此同时科学的进步迫使我们带着更多的尊重去看待动物的王国，大大小小的摄像机的普及——无处不在的眼睛——让我们不仅可以暗中看到动物的戏耍，还看到了对动物的迫害。这些都被纪录下来，广为流传，我们无法再像以前那样轻易地视而不见，或声称不知情。
“Those creatures big and small that have fed, frightened, entertained, comforted and awed us are no longer just them,” Lauerman writes in a letter to The Dodo’s readers. “Increasingly, they are us.”
“那些曾经供我们食用、令我们惊恐、给我们娱乐和抚慰、令我们肃然起敬的大小动物，已经不再是‘它们’，”劳尔曼在一封致The Dodo读者的信中写道。“它们正越来越多地变成‘我们’。”