SAN DIEGO — A deep tunnel snaking nearly 600 yards from Mexico under the border and into a San Diego warehouse is one of the most sophisticated underground drug smuggling passageways ever discovered, complete with electricity, ventilation and an electronic rail system, federal authorities said Thursday.
圣迭戈——联邦当局周四表示，美墨边境地下深处的一条隧道是迄今发现的最复杂的地下毒品走私通道之一，这条长度近600码（约合550米）的蜿蜒隧道从墨西哥延伸到圣迭戈的一家仓库，配备有电力和通风设备，还有一个电控轨道系统。
The tunnel, which was shut down Wednesday night after several weeks of surveillance, took about a year to build, the authorities said. Three people were taken into custody on Thursday, and federal agents seized eight tons of marijuana and 325 pounds of cocaine they said was connected to the investigation.
当局称，这条隧道用了大约一年的时间才建成。监视数周之后，当局于周三夜间封闭了这条隧道。三名相关人员于周四被拘押，联邦探员查获了据称与此次调查有关的8吨大麻和325磅（约合150公斤）可卡因。
As security at the border — both at the ports of entry and between them — has heightened in recent years, drug cartels have increasingly sought other avenues, including tunnels, maritime smuggling and ultralight aircraft, to move drugs into the United States. This was the fifth large-scale drug smuggling tunnel discovered in the San Diego area since 2010, the authorities said, and the eighth since 2006, when the Sinaloa drug cartel took firm control of the smuggling corridor along this section of the border.
近年来，随着两国口岸和口岸之间边境区域安全措施的加强，贩毒集团日益寻求将毒品运进美国的其他途径，包括隧道、海上走私通道和超轻型飞机。当局称，这是2010年以来在圣迭戈地区发现的第五条用于大规模毒品走私的隧道，是2006年以来发现的第八条。2006年，锡那罗亚(Sinaloa)贩毒集团牢牢控制着这段边境沿线的走私通道。
“These cartels have spent years and tens of millions of dollars trying to create a secret underworld of passages so they can move large quantities of drugs,” said Laura Duffy, the United States attorney for the San Diego region.
“为了运输大量毒品，这些贩毒集团花了多年时间和数以千万美元计的资金，试图创建一个秘密的地下通道网络，”圣迭戈地区联邦检察官劳拉·达菲(Laura Duffy)说。
Derek Benner, special agent in charge for Homeland Security Department investigations in San Diego, said sophisticated tunnels like the one found here — which required not only laborers to build but also architects and engineers, and could cost upwards of $1 million to construct — were an investment only a well-financed cartel could afford to make.
国土安全部(Homeland Security Department)负责圣迭戈地区调查事务的特别探员德里克·本纳(Derek Benner)说，与此次发现相类的复杂隧道不仅需要挖掘隧道的工人，还需要建筑师和工程师，造价可能超过100万美元（约合600万元人民币），但只需一家资金雄厚的贩毒集团投资便可建成。
He said the tunnel — like the two most recent “supertunnels” in the region, which were discovered in late 2011 — was shut down before any narcotics reached the market in the United States, which he called a major blow to the cartel.
2011年年底，该地区发现了两条“超级隧道”，那是距这次发现时间最近的。本纳说，和那两条隧道一样，这条隧道遭到封闭之时，贩毒集团也没来得及利用它将任何毒品运进美国市场。他说，这是对相关贩毒集团的一次沉重打击。
“This serves as yet another warning to these organizations that mistakenly believe that tunnels will be their ticket to success,” Mr. Benner said.
本纳说，“本案是对这些贩毒组织的又一次警告，他们错误地以为这些隧道是他们通往成功的门票。”
It was the first time cocaine had been seized in connection with a tunnel operation, the authorities said.
当局表示，这是他们首次在和隧道相关的突击行动中缴获可卡因。
“They’re desperate,” said William R. Sherman, special agent in charge for the Drug Enforcement Administration in San Diego. “We’re starting to see them try to move cocaine through these tunnels, which we’ve never seen before. We’re seeing them try to move cocaine through ultra-lights into the desert, which we’ve never seen before. And those are simply acts of desperation.”
圣迭戈缉毒局(Drug Enforcement Administration)主管特工威廉·R·舍曼(William R. Sherman)说，“他们是在孤注一掷。我们开始看到，他们试图通过这样的隧道来运送可卡因，这是之前不曾见过的情况。我们还看到，他们试图通过超轻型飞机把可卡因运到沙漠里，这也是之前不曾见过的情况。简而言之，这些都是孤注一掷的行为。”
Tunnels have also been found around the Nogales area in Arizona, where cartels make use of underground drainage canals.
当局也曾在亚利桑那州的诺加莱斯附近发现隧道，那里的贩毒团伙利用地下排水管道来贩毒。
But the San Diego-Tijuana corridor has remained popular for tunnel construction because the clay-like soil is easy to dig and less susceptible to cave-ins, Mr. Benner said. In addition, the warehouse districts on both sides of the border offer cover for the drug smuggling operations.
不过，本纳说，圣地亚哥和蒂华纳之间的通道依然是修建隧道的热门地点，原因是那里的类粘土土壤易于挖掘，不那么容易发生塌方。而且，边境两侧的仓储区可以为贩毒行动提供掩护。
The tunnel discovered on Wednesday was about four feet high and three feet wide, the authorities said, and zigzagged on its way across the border at about 35 feet underground, likely because the builders veered off course several times during construction.
当局称，周三发现的隧道大约有四英尺（约合1.2米）高，三英尺宽，它在地下约35英尺的深处迂回着穿过边境，迂回的原因很可能是挖隧道的人几次偏离了路线。
The authorities insisted that no drug smuggling tunnels in the San Diego area were currently in operation.
当局坚称，圣地亚哥地区目前没有运转中的贩毒隧道。
“We have the border underground fairly well monitored,” Mr. Sherman said. “If you’re building a tunnel, we know about it. This is the third once since 2011. We’ve found them all before they could successfully get any drugs into the United States.”
舍曼说，“我们对边境地下区域的监控相当严密。如果你正在建造一条隧道，我们肯定会知道。这是当局自2011年以来发现的第三条贩毒隧道。在他们将任何毒品成功运入美国之前，我们就发现了所有的隧道。”