With Britain commemorating the 20th anniversary of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, on Thursday, we looked at archival photographs and the pages of The New York Times to remember how her life was seen as she lived it.
周四，英国正在纪念威尔士王妃黛安娜(Diana)去世20周年，我们查看了《纽约时报》的档案照片和页面，追忆她在世时，人们是如何看待她的生活的。
Thrust Into the Spotlight
突然置身于入聚光灯下
Tabloids called it the “wedding of the century.” The BBC estimated that 750 million worldwide watched it on television. The Times did not make Diana and Charles’s wedding the top article on its front page the next morning — the honor went to a 25 percent tax cut —but a photo of the couple was prominent. Our correspondent R.W. Apple reported:
各家报纸称之为“世纪婚礼”。据BBC估计，全球有7.5亿人在电视上观看了这场婚礼。第二天早晨，时报并没有将戴安娜和查尔斯的婚礼作为头条文章，而是把这项殊荣给了减税25%的举措，不过这对夫妇的一张照片非常显眼。我们的记者R·W·艾普尔(R.W. Apple)当时报道称：
All the panoply of monarchy was deployed on this, one of the great days in the history of the House of Windsor: the stirring music of Handel and Purcell and Elgar; the Household Cavalry, in their burnished breastplates and helmets with red plumes; the stately royal horses, caparisoned in silver; almost all of the reigning sovereigns of Europe, come in their finery to share in the happy occasion, and the royal bride herself, resplendent in a gown of pale ivory, with puffy sleeves and a train 25 feet long.
在温莎王朝(House of Windsor)历史中的一个大日子里，王室气派得到了完全的彰显：亨德尔(Handel)、珀赛尔(Purcell)和埃尔加(Elgar)激动人心的音乐；近卫军骑兵戴着闪亮的胸铠和插着红色羽毛的头盔；庄严的皇家马匹披着银色马衣；几乎所有的欧洲君主都盛装出席了这场喜庆的盛事，皇室新娘本人穿着一席华丽的乳白色婚纱，它有着蓬松的袖子和25英尺长的拖尾。
The marriage of Lady Diana Spencer to the Prince of Wales vaulted her into the role of a national emissary for Britain as a member of the royal family. When she and Charles visited the White House in 1985, The Times treated it with excited front page coverage, declaring, “The British Have Landed and Washington Is Taken.”
戴安娜·斯潘塞女爵(Lady Diana Spencer)嫁给威尔士亲王之后，作为皇室成员，一跃成为英国的国家形象大使。1985年，她和查尔斯访问白宫时，《纽约时报》进行了热情洋溢的头版报道，宣称“英国人来了，华盛顿被征服了”。
Frances X. Clines, reporting for The Times that day, noted a sense of spectacle in a usually demure press corps:
当天，弗朗西斯·X·克莱因(Frances X. Clines)在为时报做报道时注意到通常沉稳的记者团有一种激动的感觉。
“A crush of American journalists, inquiring after the Princess’ wardrobe and whims, camped around the capital to record a varied itinerary that was protected by a throng of security guards. ‘What happened to her red hat?’ a reporter shouted at a royal spokesman at the White House, asking about the hatless Princess in a ‘news’ exchange typical of the day.”
“众多美国记者争先抢后地询问这位王妃的着装和感想，他们驻扎在首都各地，记录受到一大群警卫保护的多彩行程。‘她的红色帽子怎么了？’一名记者在白宫向一名皇室发言人大声问道。这是在询问王妃没戴帽子的事，算是当天典型的‘新闻’交流。”
During that same Washington trip, she gave a new look to what it meant to be royal, taking over a dance floor with John Travolta in front of guests including Tom Selleck, Mikhail Baryshnikov and Gloria Vanderbilt.
同样是在那次华盛顿之旅中，她在视觉上重新定义了皇室，在一众宾客面前与约翰·特拉沃尔塔(John Travolta)跳舞，宾客包括汤姆·塞莱克(Tom Selleck)、米哈伊尔·巴雷什尼科夫(Mikhail Baryshnikov)和格洛丽亚·范德比尔特(Gloria Vanderbilt)。
Building a Life
构建一种生活
Diana often expressed a desire for a degree of normalcy, a goal that her son Prince William has also embraced as he develops a public profile.
戴安娜经常表达希望过上一定程度的平常生活的意愿，她的儿子威廉王子(Prince William)在塑造自己的公众形象时也将这作为一个目标。
For Diana, normalcy was a multifaceted goal. It was intended to give her children a sense of the upbringing she had experienced, but also to introduce the royal family to a more modern world, in which she felt comfortable.
对戴安娜来说，平常生活是一个多层面的目标。它是为了让她的孩子们拥有一个她经历过的成长过程，也是为了将皇室引入更现代的世界，她在这个世界里感觉很舒服。
It also undergirded her interest in charitable causes with a sense of genuine involvement. Charity galas at opera houses were preceded by personal visits to places like the Henry Street Settlement House, an organization to assist the homeless, in New York.
这也是她对慈善事业的兴趣的根基，她具有一种真正的参与意识。她在纽约的歌剧院参加慈善晚宴之前，亲自访问帮助无家可归者的亨利街社会服务所(Henry Street Settlement House)等地。
The Divorce 
离婚
A little more than a year before her death, on July 13, 1996, the details of a divorce settlement between Diana and Prince Charles were formally announced, and were tucked toward the bottom of The Times’s front page: 
1996年7月13日，也就是她去世一年多前，戴安娜和查尔斯亲王之间的离婚协议的细节被正式公布，登在了时报头版的下方：
The untangling of the royal marriage had been watched carefully for years, and her departure from the royal family did not dull public interest in her.
这场王室婚姻的纠葛多年来一直被密切关注，她离开王室并没有减弱公众对她的兴趣。
About a year later, on June 26, 1997, The Times reported on “a boisterous auction that brought in $3.25 million for 79 cocktail and evening dresses belonging to the Princess of Wales, an average of more than $41,000 a dress.”
在大约一年后的1997年6月26日，时报报道称，在“一场热闹的拍卖会上，威尔士王妃的79件鸡尾酒会礼服和晚礼服卖出了325万美元，平均每件超过4.1万美元”。
She continued to draw intense admiration for her charitable work, especially her willingness to confront stigmas as she worked with people living with AIDS or disabled by land mines.
她的慈善工作继续为她赢得人们的衷心敬佩，尤其是她在帮助艾滋病毒感染者或因地雷致残的人士时，从不避嫌。
Diana’s Death
戴安娜之死
The death of Diana after a high-speed car crash shocked the world and convulsed her followers with grief.
戴安娜因高速车祸去世的消息震惊了全世界，她的支持者感到万分悲伤。
The pageantry that introduced her to the world stage was bookended at her funeral. And as at the wedding, R.W. Apple was there to bear witness:
和她登上世界舞台时一样，她的葬礼也是一场盛况。和在婚礼上一样，R·W·艾普尔也见证了葬礼：
“The silence — the awe-struck, reverent, almost worshipful silence — was positively deafening.
“沉默——敬畏、尊重、近乎膜拜的沉默——让现场一片寂静。
Scarcely a sound rose from the millions who packed central London Friday night and this morning for the funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales. It was a crowd unmatched at least since the end of World War II in this stately old city that has known so many moments of regal and imperial triumph and tragedy. Yet for all the emotion, only the tread of the horses’ hooves, the thwack-thwack-thwack of police helicopters, the tolling of church bells and the occasional wail of agony from a mourner pierced the stillness today as the cortege wound its slow, sad way to Westminster Abbey.”
周五晚上和今天早上为参加威尔士王妃黛安娜的葬礼而聚集在伦敦市中心的成百上千万人几乎没有发出一点声音。这座古老庄严的城市经历了王室和帝国的无数胜利和悲伤，但至少自二战以来，它从未聚集过如此庞大的人群。尽管人们情绪激动，但只有马蹄声、警方直升机的嗡嗡声和教堂的钟声，以及哀悼者偶尔的痛哭声打破今天的寂静，送葬行列缓慢悲伤地走向威斯敏斯特大教堂。”
The Times has published 200 stories about Diana since her death, revisiting her life and examining how she is perceived posthumously. Though younger Britons are less likely to see her as a national hero, for many, she is still considered a symbol of her era.
戴安娜去世后，时报发表了200个关于她的故事，重温她的人生，探究她去世后人们对她的看法。虽然更年轻的英国人不大可能将她视为国家英雄，但对很多人来说，她依然被认为是她那个时代的一个象征。