When the Soviet Union set up the Intourist hotel and travel company under Stalin, the bellboys, drivers, cooks and maids all worked for the N.K.V.D., the secret police agency later known as the K.G.B. Also on the payroll were the prostitutes deployed to entrap and blackmail visiting foreign politicians and businessmen.
当斯大林领导下的苏联创办因图丽斯(Intourist)酒店和旅行社的时候，行李员、司机、厨师和女佣都为内务人民委员部(NKVD)工作——这个秘密警察机关是克格勃(KGB)的前身。受雇的还有妓女，她们被用于诱骗、勒索到访的外国政客和商人。
Russia’s Intourist hotels have since been sold off, including the travel company’s once dowdy flagship hostelry just down the road from the Kremlin. Lavishly refurbished and fitted with a spa and special security features, the hotel is now the Ritz-Carlton, a five-star temple of luxurious living that promotes itself as an “unforgettable retreat in the heart of the city.”
俄罗斯的因图丽斯酒店后来被出售，其中包括它的那所曾经颇为过时的旗舰旅馆，就在克里姆林宫边上。它现在已经是丽思卡尔顿(Ritz-Carlton)，经过豪华翻修，配有水疗馆和特殊的安全设施，成为一处五星级的奢华住所，宣传文案自称是“城市中心一个令人难忘的清净去处”。
But, according to uncorroborated and highly defamatory memos prepared by a former British intelligence operative for a Washington political and corporate research firm, the Ritz has remained a place where foreign guests, including Donald J. Trump, can fall victim to the Russian art of “kompromat,” the collection of compromising material as a source of leverage.
但根据一名前英国情报特工为华盛顿一家政商研究公司准备的缺少根据且具诽谤意味的备忘录，丽思卡尔顿酒店仍然是一个会让包括唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在内的外国客人成为俄罗斯“黑材料”(kompromat)艺术受害者的地方。黑材料是指可作筹码之用的不体面材料。
A summary of the former spy’s findings was presented last week to President Obama and President-elect Trump, who at a news conference on Wednesday denounced publication of the allegations as “fake news.” A spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry dismissed the accusations as “mind-boggling nonsense” and “outrageous drivel.”
上周，这名前间谍的调查结果概要被提交给了奥巴马总统和候任总统特朗普，后者在周三的新闻发布会上把对相关指控的报道斥为“假新闻”。俄罗斯外交部的一名女发言人则把这些指控斥为“令人难以想象的胡话”和“荒唐的胡言乱语”。
A hotel spokeswoman declined to discuss the matter. “In line with our company standard to protect the privacy of our guests, we do not speak about any individual or group with whom we may have done business,” Irina Zaitseva, the hotel’s marketing and communication manager, said in an email.
丽思卡尔顿酒店的发言人拒绝讨论此事。“根据我司保护客人隐私的准则，我们不会谈论任何可能和我们有业务往来的个人或组织，”该酒店的营销传播经理伊琳娜·扎伊采娃(Irina Zaitseva)在邮件中表示。
Whatever did or did not happen in Mr. Trump’s hotel suite in 2013, when he visited Moscow to attend a Miss Universe contest, Russia has a long and well-documented record of using kompromat to discredit the Kremlin’s foes and to lean on its potential friends.
特朗普曾于2013年出席在莫斯科举办的环球小姐(Miss Universe)选美比赛，不论那期间他的酒店套房里是否发生过什么，在利用黑材料诋毁敌人并讹诈潜在朋友方面，俄罗斯是有着斑斑劣迹的。
For decades, hotels across the former Soviet Union visited by foreigners were equipped with bugging devices and cameras by the K.G.B. A remnant can still be seen in Tallinn, the capital of the former Soviet republic Estonia, where the new Finnish owners of the former Intourist hotel have set up a museum to display the surveillance and other techniques used to spy on and blackmail foreign guests.
在长达数十年的时间里，前苏联各地接待外国人的酒店都被克格勃安了窃听器和摄像头。在前苏联共和国爱沙尼亚的首都塔林，至今仍能看到其遗迹。那里的因图丽斯酒店的新主人是芬兰人，他们创办了一个博物馆，来展示用以暗中监视和勒索外国客人的监控设备以及其他技术。
Peep Ehasalu, who helped set up the museum, said that 60 of the hotel’s 423 rooms were bugged and reserved for “interesting persons” like foreign businessmen. Guests who were judged vulnerable to blackmail were put in a handful of rooms with holes in the walls through which special cameras would film dalliances with prostitutes. All the prostitutes, Mr. Ehasalu said, worked for the K.G.B., which chased away freelance sex workers who had not been officially approved.
帮助创办了该博物馆的佩普·埃哈萨卢(Peep Ehasalu)说，该酒店423个房间中的60个曾安有窃听设备，并被留给外国商人之类“有价值的人”。一旦认定有机会要挟，他们会被安排住在墙上有洞的若干房间里，透过那些洞可以用特殊的摄影机录下他们和妓女行苟且之事的画面。埃哈萨卢说，所有妓女都为克格勃工作，没有得到官方许可的自由职业性工作者会被克格勃赶走。
Most of the guests at the time were from Finland, which had unusually close and accommodating relations with Moscow but which Soviet leaders always worried might tilt toward the West. To discourage that, the K.G.B. targeted decision makers from Finland who made trips to Estonia.
当时，大多数客人都来自芬兰，该国和莫斯科有着非比寻常的亲密关系，但苏联领导人总是担心它可能会向西方倾斜。为了防止出现这种情况，克格勃把到访爱沙尼亚的芬兰决策者当成了目标。
“If a politician or businessman knows that the K.G.B. can publish embarrassing photos of him or send them to his wife, this person is very easy to control,” Mr. Ehasalu said in a telephone interview. Businessmen who fell into this trap, he said, “all went back home and said life in the Soviet Union was fine and that Finland should make more business with the Soviets.”
“如果一个政客或商人知道克格勃能够公布他的不雅照片或把它们寄给他的妻子，这个人会很容易控制，“厄萨鲁在电话采访中说。他说，掉进这个陷阱的商人，“他们都会回到家里，说苏联的生活挺好的，芬兰应该多和苏联做生意。”
Russia, unlike Estonia, has hardly turned its back on Soviet-era methods. The F.S.B., the successor agency to the K.G.B., lost much of its influence in the early 1990s but has reasserted itself forcefully since Vladimir V. Putin took power 16 years ago.
和爱沙尼亚不同的是，俄罗斯根本没有放弃苏联时期的方法。克格勃的继承者俄罗斯联邦安全局（Federal Security Service，简称FSB）在1990年代影响力大减，但自从弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在16年前掌权以来，它开始强势回归。
Before becoming president, Mr. Putin played a prominent role in a particularly successful kompromat operation. As head of the F.S.B. in 1997, he won the trust of President Boris Yeltsin by helping destroy the career of Russia’s prosecutor general, Yury Skuratov. After starting an investigation into Kremlin corruption, the prosecutor was disgraced on national television by the broadcast of a video that showed a man who looked like him in bed with two young women.
成为总统之前，普京曾在一个特别成功的黑材料(kompromat)行动中发挥了突出的作用。1997年，作为FSB的领导人，他在摧毁俄罗斯检察官尤里·斯库拉托夫(Yury Skuratov)的职业生涯的行动中表现出众，赢得了叶利钦总统的信任。在开始对克里姆林宫的腐败进行调查后，这位检察官在全国电视台上遭受了羞辱，电视台播放了一个视频，显示一个看起来很像他的男人和两个年轻女人在床上的画面。
Mr. Putin certified in public that the man in the video, widely believed to have been arranged and then filmed by the F.S.B., was the prosecutor general. Mr. Skuratov resigned, the corruption investigation ended and a grateful Mr. Yeltsin named Mr. Putin prime minister, clearing his path to the presidency.
该视频被广泛认为是由FSB安排并拍摄的，普京公开证明视频中的男人就是检察长本人。斯库拉托夫辞职，腐败调查结束，感激普京的叶利钦任命他为总理，为他担任总统扫清了道路。
Unlike entirely fabricated reports of criminal or simply embarrassing behavior, kompromat is generally true, though photographs and videos are sometimes tinkered with to heighten the embarrassment. This makes it a particularly dangerous weapon that can easily backfire.
和那些完全伪造出来的有关犯罪或难堪之举的报道不同，黑材料一般是真的，虽然为了显得更难堪，照片和视频有时会被修改。因此它就成了一个特别危险的武器，很容易弄巧成拙。
Mark Galeotti, an expert on Russia’s security services at the Institute of International Relations in Prague, said that the unverified strategy suggested by the British spy was “very risky” and that it would be nonsensical for Russia to blackmail Mr. Trump.
布拉格国际关系研究所俄罗斯安全服务专家马克·加莱奥蒂(Mark Galeotti)说，英国间谍提出的这种未经验证的策略“非常危险”，俄罗斯要挟特朗普是毫无意义的。
“If the Russians ever released such a video, they would be declaring war on Trump,” he said. “And that is definitely not something Putin would want to do.”
“如果俄罗斯人发布了这样的视频，他们等于是对特朗普宣战，”他说。“这绝对不是普京想要做的。
For Mr. Putin’s opponents in Russia’s opposition, kompromat, including surreptitiously recorded sex videos, has become a serious problem.
对俄罗斯的反对派中那些普京的敌人而言，包括偷录的性爱视频在内的黑材料已经成为一个严重的问题。
The release of embarrassing material has had devastating effect on the families and careers of some activists, leaving scars lasting years. But the release of such material can also be a badge of honor, indicating that the target did not succumb to blackmail.
发布令人难堪的材料对一些活动人士的家庭和事业造成了毁灭性的影响，留下了持续数年的伤痕。但这种材料的发布也可以被视为荣誉的徽章，表明此人面对要挟没有屈服。