WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — Calling Michelle Obama a “woman whose voice we need now more than ever,” Hillary Clinton on Thursday basked in the first lady’s popularity as they campaigned together in front of an enthusiastic crowd in this college town.
北卡罗来纳州温斯顿-塞勒姆――周四，在这座大学城，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)与米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)在一群热情的民众面前携手为选举造势，受惠于第一夫人的人气，她评价说，“如今我们比以往任何时候都更需要这位女性的声音。”
Mrs. Clinton said she was proud to be finishing “one of the most, if not the most, important elections of our lifetimes,” alongside Mrs. Obama. She compared her to Maya Angelou, the African-American poet.
克林顿表示，能够与奥巴马夫人一起结束这场“我们人生中最重要的选举之一，就算不是最最重要的一场”，都令她感到十分荣幸。她还把奥巴马夫人同非裔美国诗人玛娅·安杰卢(Maya Angelou)相比。
“It doesn’t get any better than being here with our most amazing first lady, Michelle Obama,” Mrs. Clinton said after the two women gave each other a big hug at the start of the rally.
集会开始之前，两人热情拥抱，之后克林顿说，“这位是我们最了不起的第一夫人，能和她一起到这里来真是太好了。”
It was an extraordinary tableau at a crucial time in the presidential race: the nation’s first black first lady standing beside a former first lady who is seeking to break yet another historic barrier by becoming the first woman elected president. They were also onetime adversaries making common cause against Donald J. Trump and the Republicans.
在总统竞选的关键时刻，眼前这一幕非同寻常：这个国家的第一位黑人第一夫人与努力打破另一道历史壁垒成为第一任女性民选总统的前任第一夫人并肩而立。她们曾是对手，如今却团结起来，对抗唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)与共和党。
Less than two weeks from Election Day, Mrs. Obama has emerged as perhaps Mrs. Clinton’s most compelling surrogate, forging a somewhat unlikely alliance with a woman who was once her husband’s bitter rival for their party’s presidential nomination.
还有不到两周就是大选之日了，奥巴马夫人或许已经成了克林顿最具说服力的代理人，克林顿曾是她丈夫获党内总统候选人提名时的劲敌，如今两个女人却结成了不可思议的联盟。
“Dignity for women and girls — again, I wish I didn’t have to say this, but indeed,” Mrs. Clinton said, “dignity and respect for women and girls is also on the ballot in this election, and I want to thank our first lady for her eloquent, powerful defense of that basic value.”
“女人与女孩的尊严――重申一下，我本不希望再说这些，但事实上，”克林顿说，“这次选举也事关女人与女孩的尊严，以及对她们的尊重，我想感谢第一夫人雄辩、有力地捍卫了这个基本价值观。”