Each year, to urge them on, we put out an open call for application essays about these subjects and publish the best essays that we can find. This year, we chose seven with the help of Julie Lythcott-Haims, the former dean of freshmen at Stanford whose new book, “How to Raise an Adult,” is coming out next month.
《纽约时报》每年公开号召学生写有关金钱、职业和社会阶层方面的大学申请陈述，并且发表我们所能找到的最好的文章。今年，我们挑选出了七篇。以下是第四篇。
HOMETOWN
家乡
Brooklyn
布鲁克林
HIGH SCHOOL
高中
Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music and Art and Performing Arts
菲奥雷洛·亨利·拉瓜迪亚音乐艺术表演高中(Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music and Art and Performing Arts)
COLLEGE PLANS
希望就读的大学
Kenyon College
肯尼恩学院(Kenyon College)
I have no pre-choir memories.
对于加入唱诗班之前的情况，我没什么印象。
If it were not for my involvement in the choir, I would never have discovered my talent and love for singing that led me to apply to LaGuardia High School. My vocal training in school has opened up a whole new world of singing to me and has exposed me to others who are passionate and dedicated to their art.
如果不是因为加入了唱诗班，我永远不会发现自己在唱歌方面的天赋和对它的热爱，而我也就不会申请拉瓜迪亚高中。学校的声乐训练为我开启了一个全新的歌唱世界，并让我接触到了其他充满激情、献身艺术的人。
At the age of 4, I began attending choir at St. James Church. My mother decided that joining choir would provide me with musical and religious instruction, in addition to supplying the stories and rituals that are essential to Western civilization, Christianity — whatever that means. I was initially joined by scads of my peers at St. James, making choir a fun, social task, but as I grew older, one by one, my friends began dropping out and I became entirely disenchanted with what I saw as the onerous chore of attending choir. They simply did not want to go anymore and their parents complied.
在四岁时，我开始参加圣詹姆斯教堂(St. James Church)的唱诗班。我母亲断定，加入唱诗班除了会向我灌输西方文明基督教必不可少的故事和仪式——不管那意味着什么，还会给我提供音乐和宗教上的指导。最初，圣詹姆斯教堂的唱诗班里除我之外还有很多同龄人。这让参加唱诗班成了一项有趣的社交活动。但是，随着年龄的增长，我的朋友们一个接一个地退出了。我对它完全不再着迷，认为参加唱诗班的活动是繁重的苦差事。退出的人就是不想再去了，而他们的父母也答应了。
In addition to the dwindling choristers, Saint James was located on the Upper East Side, one of the fanciest ZIP codes in New York, while I was coming from my school in the pregentrified Brooklyn neighborhood of Bushwick. While the neighborhood is now known for its gourmet pizzerias and trendy clubs, the Bushwick of my childhood was known for shootings and public housing projects, if it was known at all. This discrepancy between my two lives made me more than a little uncomfortable. While the children at choir proudly donned the telltale signs of their elite education: tartan skirts and navy blazers encrusted with the logos of their private schools whose cost was nearly as much as my mother’s yearly wage, I maintained my own uniform of jeans and a T-shirt. They all knew me as the girl from Brooklyn, the chorister who went to public school.
除了唱诗班成员越来越少外，圣詹姆斯教堂坐落在上东区，那是纽约最繁华的地方之一，而我当年就读的学校却位于尚未中产阶级化的布鲁克林布什维克社区。尽管这个社区现在以菜肴精美的披萨店和时髦的夜总会而闻名，但我童年时代的布什维克如果出名的话，也是因为枪击事件和公共住房项目。这两种生活之间的差异使我十分不舒服。唱诗班的孩子们会骄傲地穿着能表明他们接受的是精英教育的衣服：格子短裙和印有他们所上私立学校标志的藏青色校服。那些学校的花费几乎是我母亲一年的工资。我则一直穿着自己的牛仔裤和T恤。他们都知道我是那个布鲁克林来的女孩，那个上公立学校的唱诗班成员。
I begged and pleaded with my mom to let me follow the path of my friends and retire my choir robe, but she persisted, always replying with a curt “no”. She believed that in the long run, going to choir would benefit me both educationally and socially.
我恳求母亲让我像朋友们那样脱下唱诗班的长袍，但她一直坚持，总是简短地回答说“不行”。她相信从长远来看，去唱诗班在教育和社交上都对我有好处。
As the years went on, I continued to badger my mother on the subject. Her answers began to lessen in severity. She showed compassion toward my dislike of choir and soon replied to my questions of discontinuing my involvement in chorus with answers like “Just do it for one more year” and the even more compassionate, “Are you sure?” Despite my mother’s change of heart, I did not take advantage of her limbo-ed responses, and instead, I began to withdraw my constant requests. In spite of not having many friends in choir, I began to enjoy literally finding my voice every week in church. After years in choir, I let my voice become free and discovered that it was loud and powerful. It could be used to lead others in song. When I was younger, I had always followed the older, more experienced singers. I would wait for the right pitch, or follow the pros to figure out when to come in, but little by little, letting go of my reticence, I began to trust myself: starting the pitch and coming in when I knew we were supposed to sing. Eventually, other singers began to follow my lead. Parishioners started to acknowledge me for my voice rather than my address. I began to appreciate this music that I had heard throughout my youth, yet had always dismissed as boring and religious. Soon enough, my habitual complaints about choir completely stopped.
随着时间的推移，我继续在这个问题上纠缠我母亲。她的答复开始变得没那么严厉了。她对我不喜欢唱诗班表示同情。很快，对我不再参加唱诗班的问题，她会用“就再去一年”或是用更显同情的“你确定吗？”来回复我。尽管我母亲的心意变了，但我没有利用她那不确定的答复，反而不再像之前那样不断要求。尽管在唱诗班里没有很多朋友，但我确实开始喜欢每周能在教堂找到自己的声音了。加入唱诗班多年后，我的声音开始可以自由发挥，由此我发现它是那么响亮而有力。那是一种可以用来领唱的声音。小时候，我总是跟在年长的、更有经验的人后面唱。我会等着正确的音调出现，或是跟随专业人员去弄清楚什么时候该一起唱，但一点一点地，我不再拘谨，开始相信自己：去起调并在我认为该唱的时候一起唱。最终，其他成员开始听我的指挥。教区居民开始因为声音而非住址认出我。我开始欣赏这种音乐。尽管在整个青少年时期，我一直在听这种音乐，但之前我总是认为它相当无聊且属于宗教音乐。很快，我对唱诗班的习惯性抱怨完全停止了。
After being in the choir for nearly a decade, I was awarded the position of head chorister, which served as an affirmation of my musical abilities, since I was now expected to lead the younger choristers. The position of head chorister motivated me into applying to the highly competitive and prestigious LaGuardia High School.
在参加唱诗班近十年后，我被授予唱诗班班长的职位，这是对我音乐能力的肯定，因为现在我被寄予了引导年龄更小的成员的希望。唱诗班班长的职位激励我去申请竞争激烈、久负盛名的拉瓜迪亚高中。
Although I initially detested choir, I have come to love it, and more than that, it has become an intrinsic part of me. Choir allowed me to not only grow as a singer, but also as a person. Through choir, I learned that if you continue with something long enough, you will receive some sort of benefit from it and maybe even grow to love it. Because of choir I found my voice in a small church. Because of choir, I am willing to go wherever life takes me with an open mind, knowing that the effects of even the smallest things can be completely life-altering. As a song that I learned in choir and auditioned with for LaGuardia says: “Oh God, my heart is ready.”
虽然起初讨厌唱诗班，但现在我已经爱上它了，不仅如此，它已经成了我固有的一部分。它让我不仅作为唱诗班成员，更作为一个人获得了成长。通过唱诗班，我学到了，如果坚持做某件事的时间足够长，你将从中得到某种益处，并且兴许还会爱上它。因为唱诗班，我在一座小教堂里找到了自己的声音。因为唱诗班，我现在愿意以开放的态度跟随生活的脚步。我知道，即便是最微不足道的事情的影响，也可能彻底改变人的一生。就像我在唱诗班学到的，并在面试拉瓜迪亚时唱的一首歌所说的那样：“哦上帝，我的心准备好了。”