Our genes may have a more elevated moral sense than our minds do, according to a new study of the genetic effects of happiness. They can, it seems, reward us with healthy gene activity when we’re unselfish — and chastise us, at a microscopic level, when we put our own needs and desires first.
一项关于快乐的遗传学效应的新研究表明，基因的“道德意识”可能比大脑更强——当我们表现出无私的品质时，基因就显示出健康的活性以资奖励；而当我们将自己的需求和欲望排在首位时，它们就在微观层面上对我们施加惩罚。
To reach that slightly unsettling conclusion, researchers from the University of North Carolina and the University of California, Los Angeles, had 80 healthy volunteers complete an online questionnaire that asked why they felt satisfied with their lives. Then the researchers drew their blood and analyzed their white blood cells.
北卡罗来纳大学(University of North Carolina)和加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)的研究人员邀请了80名健康的志愿者，并要求他们填写网上问卷，回答他们因何对生活感到满意。然后，研究人员抽取了这些志愿者的血样，并对其白细胞进行了分析。他们最终取得了这个令人多少有些不安的结论。
Scientists have long surmised that moods affect health. But the underlying cellular mechanisms were murky until they began looking at gene-expression profiles inside white blood cells. Gene expression is the complex process by which genes direct the production of proteins. These proteins jump-start other processes, which in the case of white blood cells control much of the body’s immune response.
长期以来，科学家们一直猜测情绪可能会影响健康，但是其潜在的细胞学机制始终令人费解——直到人们开始研究白细胞内的基因表达谱，这种情况才有所改观。基因表达是一个复杂的过程，基因藉由该过程指导蛋白质的生产。这些蛋白质则可启动其他生理过程，对于白细胞而言，是控制人体的大部分免疫反应。
It turned out that different forms of happiness were associated with quite different gene-expression profiles. Specifically, those volunteers whose happiness, according to their questionnaires, was primarily hedonic, to use the scientific term, or based on consuming things, had surprisingly unhealthy profiles, with relatively high levels of biological markers known to promote increased inflammation throughout the body. Such inflammation has been linked to the development of cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. They also had relatively low levels of other markers that increase antibody production, to better fight off infections.
人们发现，不同形式的快乐分别与迥然相异的基因表达谱相关。具体来说，按照问卷上的答案，可将这些志愿者分为两大类：一类志愿者倾向于将自己的快乐建立于消费之上，以科学术语来说，他们是享乐主义者，他们的基因表达图谱非常不健康，那些已知可提高全身炎症水平的生物标志物的表达水平相对较高，而此类炎症与癌症、糖尿病和心血管疾病的发生有关。而那些可增加抗体产量，以便更好抵御感染的其他标志物的表达水平却相对较低。
The volunteers whose happiness was more eudaemonic, or based on a sense of higher purpose and service to others — a small minority of the overall group — had profiles that displayed augmented levels of antibody-producing gene expression and lower levels of the pro-inflammatory expression.
而另一类志愿者比较注重心理幸福感，他们更多地将快乐寄托在实现崇高的目标以及为他人（总体中的一小部分人）服务上。他们的图谱表达正相反：生产抗体的基因表达水平有所上升，而促炎症基因的表达水平较低。
What this finding indicates, says Steven W. Cole, a professor of medicine at U.C.L.A. and senior author of the study, published last month in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, is that “our genes can tell the difference” between a purpose-driven life and a shallower one even when our conscious minds cannot. Of course, genes cannot actually perceive or judge our behavior, so the shift in gene expression is very likely driven by an evolutionary strategy of working for the common good.
上个月，该研究发表于《美国科学院院刊》(The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)上。文章责任作者、加州大学洛杉矶分校的医学教授史蒂文·W·科尔(Steven W. Cole)表示，该研究结果表明，即使我们的主观意识并没有对有理想有意义的人生与较为肤浅的人生加以区分，“我们的基因却明察秋毫”。当然了，其实基因并无法感知或评判我们的行为，所以基因表达的改变很可能是受到“追求共同利益”的演化策略所驱动。
At an individual level, this finding may strike some as hectoring, particularly for those whose stuff really does make them happy. But as Cole points out, different kinds of happiness can coexist; every volunteer in the study displayed elements of both hedonic and eudaemonic well-being. Some simply had more of one or the other.
从个人层面上而言，这一研究结果可能对某些人有一定威吓作用，对于那些确实以占有物质为乐的人尤其如此。但是，正如科尔所指出的那样，不同类型的快乐往往同时存在；该研究中的每位志愿者均显示出了享乐主义和心理幸福主义两种要素，其差别只在于哪方面占上风。
And, he adds, purpose is an elastic concept, not necessarily requiring renunciation but only that “you think first of someone else” or “have a goal greater” than your immediate gratification. Being a parent, participating in the creative arts or even taking up exercise so that you can live to see your grandchildren may ease you toward eudaemonia, he says. It may even be that this will enable your genes to respond more favorably to how you’re conducting your life.
而且，科尔补充道，“有理想有意义”是一个比较灵活的概念，它并不要求你一定要克己奉公舍己为人，你只消“首先为别人着想”，或者将“眼光放得比及时行乐更长远”就行。比如说，为人父母，参加艺术创作或从事运动，健康长寿地与孙辈共享天伦，这些都能让你享受到心理幸福感，他说，甚至很可能，你的基因会因此对你的生活方式作出更好的回应。