RIO DE JANEIRO — To fulfill his dream of watching Colombia play in the World Cup, Marco Triana Lozada, an engineer from Bogotá, cobbled together savings to travel to Brazil this month. But to avoid spending money on hotels, he and his friends have traversed the country at night on buses to watch Colombia play, even opting to stay in tents at campsites.
里约热内卢——马尔科·特里亚纳·洛萨达(Marco Triana Lozada)是一名居住在波哥大的工程师，他梦想观看哥伦比亚足球队在世界杯上打比赛。为了圆梦，这个月他把各种积蓄凑起来，来到巴西。但是为了省下住酒店的钱，他和朋友们晚上乘坐巴士，前往哥伦比亚打比赛的其他巴西城市，他们甚至还选择住在露营地的帐篷里。
“Ten years ago, this kind of thing wouldn’t have been possible for someone like me,” said Mr. Triana Lozada, 24, emphasizing that he could only pay for the trip thanks to a credit line from his bank. He is skipping meals to keep costs down, but has not let that get in the way of having fun. “During the day we are only buying caipirinhas,” he said, referring to Brazil’s signature cocktail, made from cachaça, sugar and lime.
“十年前，这种事情可能对于我这样的人来说是不可能的。”今年24岁的特里亚纳·纳洛萨达说。他强调，全靠了他的银行信用额度，自己才能来巴西看球。为了减少支出，他有些时候不吃饭，但他不会让那阻挡自己享受乐趣。“白天我们只买凯匹林纳喝，”他说，凯匹林纳是巴西标志性的鸡尾酒——用甘蔗酒、糖和青柠制作而成。
Fans like Mr. Triana Lozada are sleeping on buses, staying in hotels or on cruise ships, or simply bedding down in vehicles near Rio de Janeiro’s beaches. And the arrival in Brazil this year of more than 200,000 Spanish-speaking fans from large nations like Mexico and Colombia and smaller ones like Costa Rica and Uruguay exemplifies one of Latin America’s most profound shifts since the start of the century: the rise of the middle class.
像特里亚纳·纳洛萨达这样的球迷在公交车上过夜、住在酒店或游船上，或者干脆睡在里约热内卢附近海滩上的车辆里。今年有20多万讲西班牙语的球迷抵达巴西，有些来自墨西哥和哥伦比亚这样的大国，有些来自哥斯达黎加和乌拉圭等较小的国家，这体现了拉丁美洲本世纪开始的最深刻变化之一：中产阶级的崛起。
As the United States grapples with growing inequality and poverty rates that remain higher than in the 1970s, Latin America’s middle class has grown 60.3 percent since 2003, according to the Inter-American Development Bank. During that period, the population living in poverty declined by 34 percent. Altogether, the World Bank puts the middle class at about 30 percent of Latin America’s population.
在美国，不平等状况日益加剧，贫困率持续高于20世纪70年代，而在拉丁美洲，美洲开发银行(Inter-American Development Bank)的资料显示，中产阶级自2003年以来扩大了60.3%。在这段时期，贫困人口减少了34%。总的来说，根据世界银行(World Bank)的资料，中产阶层占拉丁美洲人口的30%左右。
The criteria for determining who is middle class in Latin America are remarkably elastic across the region, in some cases including people earning as little as $10 a day. But while defining the middle class remains a subject of fierce debate, rising incomes in country after country have come into sharp relief as Latin American soccer fans follow their teams around Brazil.
在拉丁美洲的不同地方，中产阶级的划分标准有很大的弹性，有些地方，每天赚10美元就被归入中产阶级。虽然中产阶级的界定依然是人们激烈辩论的话题之一，但当拉美球迷跟随本国球队前往巴西各处时，这些国家的收入增长清楚地呈现在了人们眼前。
“Latin America has stopped being a region that is predominantly poor,” said Marcos Robles, an economist at the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington who studies poverty and inequality. “The new mobility is a recent phenomenon begun 10 years ago after two decades of social deterioration.”
“拉丁美洲已不再主要是一个贫困地区了，”美洲开发银行驻华盛顿的经济学家马科斯·罗伯斯(Marcos Robles)说，他的研究领域是贫困和不平等问题。“这种新的流动性，是在经过20年的社会退化之后，直到10年前才开始出现的一个新现象。”
Scholars attribute the expansion of Latin America’s middle class to an array of factors including rising education levels, social welfare programs which provide monthly stipends to millions of families and per capita incomes which climbed 5.1 percent a year from 2003 to 2012, a period when various countries benefited from robust global demand for commodities.
学者们把拉丁美洲中产阶级规模的扩大归功于一系列因素，其中包括教育水平的提高，社会福利计划则为数以百万计的家庭每月提供津贴，以及从2003年至2012年人均收入每年增加5.1%。在这段时期，拉美各国都受益于全球对大宗商品的旺盛需求。
Even so, traveling to Brazil and from one host city to another in Latin America’s largest country involves lodging, transportation and food costs which are far in excess of a budget vacation, reflecting newfound purchasing power for many people in the region.
即便如此，抵达巴西，并在这个拉美最大的国家从一个主办城市前往另一个，其中涉及的住宿、交通和食品花费，已经远远超出了穷游水平。对该地区的很多人来说，这反映了他们新近拥有的购买力。
Highlighting the price rises during the World Cup, especially in Rio, a local magazine compiled a list of eye-popping expenses, including hotel rooms averaging $430 a night to French fries going for $16 at a seaside kiosk.
一家巴西杂志编写了令人瞠目的费用列表，突显了世界杯期间物价飞涨的状况，特别是在里约，比如酒店客房的平均价为每晚430美元（约合人民币2700元），海边小摊的炸薯条一份16美元。
But those prices didn’t stop Rafael Concha, 45, a Chilean who repairs power lines for a living, from flying here for a three-week stay. He is traveling with two friends who are in the same line of work and said they were paying $270 a night for a two-bedroom apartment in Copacabana, a beachfront district crammed with visitors from Latin America.
但这样高的物价并没有阻挡拉斐尔·孔查(Rafael Concha)飞来巴西度过三个星期。孔查是智利人，现年45岁，靠修理输电线为生。他与两个朋友一同前来巴西，说他们以每晚270美元的价格，住在科帕卡巴纳的一套两居室公寓里。现在，这个海滨区挤满了来自拉丁美洲的游客。
“This is my first journey abroad apart from going to Argentina,” said Mr. Concha, noting that he did not even have tickets for games, but wanted to soak up the World Cup experience.
“这是我除了阿根廷之外的第一次出国之旅，”孔查说。他甚至没有比赛门票，但是却希望能沉浸在世界杯的体验中。
Progress remains uneven, with some countries like Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras experiencing a decline of their middle class since 2000. Brazil, with a population of more than 200 million, boasts the region’s largest middle class, though it still grapples with high levels of inequality.
拉美的发展仍然不平衡，在危地马拉、萨尔瓦多和洪都拉斯等国家，中产阶级规模从2000年开始减小了。巴西拥有逾2亿人口，中产阶层的规模也是该地区最大的，但它的不平等状况依然严重。
And though living standards have improved for millions in Brazil over the last decade, some here contend that grouping so many into the middle class is misleading. “There are families now who can afford to buy flat-screen televisions but who still live in places without treated sewage,” said Lena Lavinas, an economist at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. “We shouldn’t confuse the formation of a society of mass consumption with the expansion of the middle class.”
虽然在过去10年中，巴西数以百万计的民众生活水平有所提高，但一些巴西人认为，把这么多人划入中产阶级具有误导性。“现在有些家庭可以买得起平板电视，但是生活的地方仍然没有污水处理设施，”里约热内卢联邦大学的经济学家莉娜·拉维拉斯(Lena Lavinas)说。“我们不应该把中产阶级规模的扩大和大众消费社会的形成混为一谈。”
But whether they are inside Brazil’s new stadiums or at the celebrations on the streets, many of the Brazilians and their neighbors visiting here for the World Cup are displaying how Latin America’s fortunes are changing.
但无论是在巴西新落成的体育场馆内，还是在街头的庆祝活动中，许许多多的巴西人与那些为了世界杯来到这里的邻国民众显示了拉丁美洲的命运正在发生变化。