Kikujiro Fukushima’s life in photography took off when he promised to avenge the Hiroshima bombing. It was 1952, and Mr. Fukushima — a watchmaker, volunteer social worker and photographer — met Sugimatsu Nakamura, a 43-year-old fisherman, who was gravely ill from the atomic bomb’s effects.
福岛菊次郎(Kikujiro Fukushima)摄影生涯的腾飞，开始于他立誓为广岛原子弹爆炸受害者伸冤。当时是1952年，身兼钟表匠、社会工作志愿者、摄影师数职于一身的福岛遇到了43岁的渔民中村杉松(Sugimatsu Nakamura)。广岛原子弹爆炸令中村杉松伤病缠身。
“For the first two years I was too timid to photograph him,” Mr. Fukushima told me a few weeks ago. “But one day, he got on his knees, crying, and begged me.”
“最初两年，我太羞怯，不敢拍他的照片。”福岛几周前告诉我。“但有一天，他跪下来哭着恳求我。”
“Fukushima, can you please take revenge on the atomic bomb?”
“福岛，可以请你为原子弹受害者伸冤吗？”
“Yes, but how?”
“行啊，但是怎样伸冤呢？”
“Take pictures of my pain and let the world know how terrible it is.”
“用照片记录我的痛苦，让世界知道这有多么可怕。”
Mr. Nakamura was not only angry about the bombing, but also with the Japanese government, which refused to provide proper care for its victims. Mr. Fukushima understood this well — he had been in the Japanese military, stationed in Hiroshima until one week before the bombing, when he was transferred to prepare for a suicide mission. Most of his comrades who stayed behind were killed.
令中村愤怒的不仅是原子弹爆炸本身，还有拒绝为受害者提供适当照顾的日本政府。福岛对此非常清楚——他曾经在日本军队服役，就驻扎在广岛，直到原子弹投下前的一个星期，他被调去准备执行一个自杀式任务。留在广岛的大多数战友都在爆炸中丧生。
Mr. Nakamura died in 1967, but the documentary filmmaker Saburo Hasegawa believes that the vow Mr. Fukushima made to the ailing fisherman guided his subsequent career, in which he photographed individuals fighting social injustice. During the social upheaval of the 1960s and ’70s, Mr. Fukushima photographed student and feminist movements, antiwar protests and industrial pollution. He even infiltrated Japan’s Self-Defense Forces by telling the head of public affairs that he would gladly give it free pictures if it gave him access.
中村于1967年去世，但纪录片导演长谷川三郎(Saburo Hasegawa)认为，福岛对这位疾患缠身的渔民立下的誓言，引导了他后来拍摄个人与社会不公抗争主题的职业方向。在20世纪60和70年代的社会动荡中，福岛拍摄了以学生运动、女权运动、反战抗议和工业污染为主题的作品。他甚至还潜伏进了日本自卫队：他告诉自卫队的公共事务负责人，如果他能进去的话，他很乐意免费给他们拍照。
He had other plans.
其实他另有打算。
“If the government or corporations knowingly deceived the public by breaking the law, it’s O.K. for photographers to break the law in order to uncover the truth they are hiding,” Mr. Fukushima explained in “Japan Lies,” the documentary Mr. Hasegawa made about him.
“如果政府或企业知法犯法，故意欺骗公众，那么为了曝光他们隐瞒的真相，摄影师违反了法律也不为过。”福岛在《日本谎言》(Japan Lies)中解释说。《日本谎言》是一部关于福岛的纪录片，由长谷川三郎制作。
For three years, he photographed the Navy, Army and military academy, giving them photographs to use for publicity. All the while, he was photographing military secrets, like machine guns and missiles made inside factories. Without permission, he published the exposé, “A Farewell to Arms,” in a magazine. Soon after its publication, he was punched and kicked by a stranger who was lurking outside his house in Tokyo. A few weeks later, another stranger slashed his face. An arsonist torched his house while he was away, but his daughter Noriko carried his negatives to safety.
在三年的时间里，他拍摄了海军、陆军和军事院校，为他们提供宣传用的照片。在这期间，他也拍摄了一些军事机密，比如工厂里制造的机枪和导弹。在没有获得允许的情况下，福岛在一本杂志上发表了揭露性的报道《永别了，武器》(A Farewell to Arms)。报道刊出后不久，一个陌生人潜伏在他的东京住所外，对他进行拳打脚踢。几周后，另一个陌生人划伤了他的脸。还有人在他离开住所后，纵火焚烧他的房子，但他的女儿纪子（Noriko，音译）把照片的底片转移到了安全的地方。
This was not the first time Mr. Fukushima’s photography took a personal toll. The decade he spent photographing Mr. Nakamura overwhelmed him and led to a nervous breakdown that put him in an asylum for three months. In 1960, he divorced his wife and moved to Tokyo to become a professional photojournalist. He worked mostly on personal projects, telling me that he was never a good photographer on assignment.
福岛的摄影作品给他自己招来祸端不是第一次了。他拍摄中村10年的经历压垮了他，导致他精神崩溃，并在精神病院住了三个月。1960年，他跟妻子离婚，搬到了东京，成为一名专业摄影记者。他主要是拍摄个人项目；他告诉我，他从来都干不好别人指派的摄影任务。
“Professional photographers go to newsy events, take beautiful pictures, publish nice spreads in magazines and move on,” he said. “I was very slow and shy. But once I throw myself into something, nobody could get me out of it. I simply get deeper and deeper. As a result, I ended up with the pictures nobody has.”
“专业摄影师会奔赴新闻性事件的现场，拍下美丽的照片，并在杂志登出漂亮的通栏图片，然后再执行下一个任务，”他说。“我动作很慢，又很害羞。但是，一旦我专注在什么事情上，就没有人能让我放弃。我会越陷越深。就这样，我最后会拍到别人拍不到的照片。”
But when the Japanese economy prospered in 1980s and people willed themselves to forget the hard times of the postwar years, Mr. Fukushima’s politically charged photographs fell out of fashion. Instead, he designed jewelry to pay the bills. This was not too far from his roots: after the war — then married and with three children — he supported his family as a watchmaker. That was how he ended up in Hiroshima, which he visited several times a month to buy parts.
但是到了20世纪80年代，日本经济繁荣兴旺，公众希望忘却战后的艰难时刻，福岛富有政治意味的照片就过时了。这时，他靠设计珠宝谋生。珠宝设计和他的本行比较接近：二战结束后，已婚并且有三个孩子的福岛靠当钟表匠谋生。而那就是他到广岛的原因：他每月去广岛几次，采购钟表部件。
He first photographed the city’s ruins in 1946, after reading a newspaper article about how grass had begun to grow on the spot where the bomb was dropped. While also working as a volunteer social worker, he photographed orphans, widows and the elderly who were left alone after the bombing, giving the pictures to local authorities so they could raise money to help them.
他最初是在1946年拍摄广岛的废墟，因为他在报纸上读到一篇文章，讲野草开始在核弹投下的地方长出。同时在做志愿者时，他还拍摄广岛原子弹爆炸后留下的孤儿、寡妇和老人，并把照片交给地方当局，以筹集帮助他们的善款。
Decades later, as an out-of-favor photojournalist, he left both photography and Tokyo. Disillusioned by the excess of materialism in Tokyo, he moved to Katashima, a desert island in Yamaguchi, in 1982, to live like Thoreau. I asked him why he chose the desert island.
几十年后，作为一名过气的摄影记者，他离开了摄影行业，也离开了东京。东京的过度物质化让他有幻灭感。1982年，他搬到了山口市的一个荒岛片岛上，过着如梭罗(Thoreau)一般的生活。我问他为什么会选择这个荒岛。
“I didn’t have money,” he said. “So I decided to go to a place with no stores.”
“我没有钱，”他说。“所以我决定去一个没有商店的地方。”
He lived there for three years, then moved to a nearby island, where he spent another 15 years.
他在那里住了三年，然后搬到附近的一个岛，又在那里度过了15年。
But his personal fate once again crossed paths with that of the nation when, in 1987, he learned he had stomach cancer. While recovering, the coverage of Emperor Hirohito’s deteriorating health dominated the news. Mr. Fukushima had supported the empire during the war, brainwashed to sacrifice his life for the emperor. He believed that many of his classmates were forced to die for the same cause.Convinced that the emperor was never held accountable for the horrors of the war, Mr. Fukushima mounted a retrospective exhibition called “The Emperor’s Responsibility” that was highly critical of Hirohito’s role in World War II.
1987年，他得知自己得了胃癌时，他的个人命运再一次与国家的命运交织在一起。在康复期间，媒体上到处都是裕仁天皇(Emperor Hirohito)健康状况不断恶化的消息。福岛在战争期间支持日本帝国，他被洗脑，要誓死效忠天皇。他当时深信，他的许多同学都因为同样的理由而被迫死去。他认为天皇永远不会为战争中的罪行负责，于是他举办了一个回顾展，叫做“战争责任展”(The Emperor’s Responsibility)，对天皇在二战中所扮演的角色提出了尖锐的批评。
The exhibition was successful, but he received death threats. As an act of defiance — or caution — he made his own coffin out of cheap plywood.
展览很成功，但是有人威胁要他的命。他用便宜的胶合板给自己做了一副棺材，算是一种抗议，也是为了防备不测。
Now 92, Mr. Fukushima lives alone in an apartment in Yanai with his dog Roku. He does his own grocery shopping and cooks three meals a day. He refuses to receive a national pension, saying he can’t accept money from the enemy he has been fighting. He doesn’t take money from his children. Instead, he ekes out a living writing for magazines.
现年92岁的福岛先生独自生活，和他的狗狗罗酷(Roku)住在柳井市的一套公寓里。他自己去杂货店购买日常用品，一日三餐也自己做。他拒绝领取国家的养老金，他说，他不接受一直与之斗争的敌人的钱。他也不要子女的钱。他靠为杂志写稿勉强度日。
Feeling that the official history of postwar Japan has been whitewashed, he penned his own account. The third volume of his autobiography, “Postwar Japan Nobody Photographed,” was published early in 2013.
由于感到日本美化了战后历史，他开始自己记录历史。他的自传第三卷《无人拍摄的战后日本》(Postwar Japan Nobody Photographed)已于2013年初出版。
He continues to photograph residents of Iwaishima, a small fishing island in Yamaguchi, who have been protesting against a proposed nuclear plant for three decades. He traveled to Fukushima in September 2011 to photograph the nuclear crisis, six months after the earthquake and tsunami wreaked havoc.
他继续用相机拍摄山口县祝岛的居民，这个小岛的居民主要以捕渔为生。30年来，他们一直在抵制一项在这里建设核电站的计划。2011年9月，他去了福岛，在地震和海啸过去六个月之后，拍摄那场灾难留下的疮痍。
Keenly aware that he is probably the only journalist who has witnessed both the aftermath of Hiroshima and Fukushima, he is writing a book called “From Hiroshima to Fukushima.”
他非常清楚，自己可能是唯一一个见证了广岛和福岛两次灾难的记者。他正在撰写一本题为《从广岛到福岛》(From Hiroshima to Fukushima)的书。
It has not been easy.
这并不容易。
“Both are nuclear crises but different kinds,” he said. “Hiroshima’s crisis was caused by the bomb dropped by the enemy during the war. Fukushima’s crisis, though initially triggered by the earthquake and tsunami, was not really natural. It was caused by Japan’s nuclear industry whose interests more lie in their financial gain rather than the safety of the public. In Hiroshima, I photographed people who were dying. In Fukushima, it looked normal but nobody knows what is going to happen in long term. I didn’t know where to begin.”
他说，“两次都是核危机，但不是同一种。广岛的危机是战争中敌军投下的核弹造成的。而福岛的危机，虽然最初是地震和海啸触发的，实际上并不是自然灾害。日本核产业是罪魁祸首。它更感兴趣的是财务收益，而不是公众安全。在广岛，我拍下了弥留之际的人们的照片。在福岛，看起来一切正常，但是没人知道长期来看会发生什么。我都不知道该从哪里开始。”
He closely follows current events and asked me what I thought of a proposed secrecy law that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is trying to pass.
他密切关注时事，并问我，对安倍晋三首相努力推动的保密法案有何看法。
I went blank.
我愣住了。
“What’s that?” I replied.
我问道，“那是什么？”
He looked the other way and murmured, “Read the paper, Hiro.”
他目光转到别处，小声说，“看看报纸吧。”
Before I said goodbye, I asked him what he wanted to photograph next.
在我道别之前，我问他，他接下来想要拍点什么。
He looked me in the eye.
他看着我的眼睛。
“Are you asking the 92-year-old grandfather to keep fighting? That’s impossible,” he said. “While I was in Fukushima, I couldn’t walk for long, I fell and couldn’t stand up by myself. How can I photograph with such a frail body?”
“你是要让一个92岁的老头继续战斗吗？那是不可能的，”他说。“我在福岛时，都不能长时间走路，摔倒了自己都站不起来。身体这么虚弱，还怎么拍照？”
But without missing a beat he asked me a final question.
但他马上又向我问了最后一个问题。
“By the way, do you happen to know a good tiny point-and-shoot camera?”
“顺便问一句，你知道有什么又好又轻便的傻瓜相机吗？”