ANNAPOLIS, Md. —It was early fall, and Donald Trump, behind in the polls, seemed to be preparing a rationale in case a winner like him somehow managed to lose. “I’m afraid the election is going to be rigged, I have to be honest,” the Republican nominee told a riled-up crowd in Columbus, Ohio. He was hearing “more and more” about evidence of rigging, he added, leaving the details to his supporters’ imagination.
马里兰州安纳波利斯——那是初秋，在民意调查中落后的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)看起来似乎在准备一个合理的措辞，以防像他这样的成功者出于某种原因最终失败。“我担心选举会遭到操纵，我必须坦白这一点，”这位共和党提名人在俄亥俄州哥伦布市对一群愤怒的观众讲道。他还表示，自己听到“越来越多”有关暗箱操作的证据，细节则任由他的支持者自己想象。
A few weeks later, Cameron Harris, a new college graduate with a fervent interest in Maryland Republican politics and a need for cash, sat down at the kitchen table in his apartment to fill in the details Trump had left out. In a dubious cyberart just coming into its prime, this bogus story would be his masterpiece.
几周后，刚从大学毕业的卡梅伦·哈里斯(Cameron Harris)坐在自己公寓的餐桌前，开始填补唐纳德没有说明的细节。他对马里兰州共和党政治有着狂热的兴趣，另外手头正缺钱。在一个见不得光但即将进入鼎盛的领域，这个虚假的故事将成为他的代表作。
Harris started by crafting the headline: “BREAKING: ‘Tens of thousands’ of fraudulent Clinton votes found in Ohio warehouse.” It made sense, he figured, to locate this shocking discovery in the very city and state where Trump had highlighted his “rigged” meme.
哈里斯先起了个标题：“突发：俄亥俄州仓库里发现了‘数万张’克林顿的假选票。”他觉得，把这个惊人的发现放在特朗普强调他的“操纵”米姆(meme)的这个州和城市，比较说得通。
“I had a theory when I sat down to write it,” recalled Harris, a 23-year-old former college quarterback and fraternity leader. “Given the severe distrust of the media among Trump supporters, anything that parroted Trump’s talking points people would click. Trump was saying ‘rigged election, rigged election.’ People were predisposed to believe Hillary Clinton could not win except by cheating.”
“坐下来写的时候，我已经想好了思路，”23岁的前橄榄球四分卫、兄弟会领袖哈里斯回忆道。“考虑到特朗普的支持者对媒体极为不信任，任何机械重复特朗普谈话要点的东西都会引起他们的共鸣。特朗普在说‘被操纵的大选，被操纵的大选’。人们便自然认为希拉里·克林顿如果不作弊就赢不了。”
In a raucous election year defined by made-up stories, Harris was a home-grown, self-taught practitioner, a boutique operator with no ties to Russian spy agencies or Macedonian fabrication factories. As Trump takes office this week, the beneficiary of at least a modest electoral boost from a flood of fakery, Harris and his ersatz-news website, ChristianTimesNewspaper.com, make for an illuminating tale.
在一个由虚构的故事定义的喧闹的选举年里，哈里斯是一名自学成才的从业人员，一个精品小作坊，与俄罗斯情报机构和马其顿的谎言制造工厂没有关联。在特朗普于本周上任之时，作为受益者——因发布大量假消息在选举期间浏览量至少小幅上涨——哈里斯和他炮制假消息的网站ChristianTimesNewspaper.com（意为“基督时报”。——译注）提供了一个颇具启发性的故事。
Contacted by a reporter who had discovered an electronic clue that revealed his secret authorship of ChristianTimesNewspaper.com, he was wary at first, chagrined to be unmasked.
一位记者发现了一条电子线索，显示哈里斯是ChristianTimesNewspaper.com背后的神秘作者，于是联系了他。他一开始十分警惕，为暴露身份而懊恼。
“This topic is rather sensitive,” Harris said, noting that he was trying to build a political consulting business and needed to protect his reputation. But eventually he agreed to tell the story of his foray into fake news, a very part-time gig that he calculated paid him about $1,000 an hour in web advertising revenue. He seemed to regard his experience with a combination of guilt about having spread falsehoods and pride at doing it so skillfully.
“这个话题十分敏感，”哈里斯说。他表示他正在想办法做政治咨询方面的生意，需要保护自己的声誉，但最终他同意讲述自己涉足制造假新闻的故事。那是一份十分不正规的工作，据他计算，每小时可以为他带来1000美元的网络广告收入。在看待这段经历时，哈里斯的感受是双重的，既有传播谎言的负疚感，也有对自己做得如此精妙的自豪感。
“No one really goes in this building. It’s mainly used for short-term storage by a commercial plumber,” Prince said.
“没人真的走进过这栋楼。这里主要是一个专业水管工用作临时仓库的，”普林斯说。
In case anyone missed the significance of the find, Harris made it plain: “What he found could allegedly be evidence of a massive operation designed to deliver Clinton the crucial swing state.”
为了避免有人注意不到这个发现的重要性，哈里斯做了明确的说明：“据称他所发现的东西可能是一场大规模行动的证据，其目的是让克林顿在关键的摇摆州获胜。”
A photograph, he thought, would help erase doubts about his yarn. With a quick Google image search for “ballot boxes,” he landed on a shot of a balding fellow standing behind black plastic boxes that helpfully had “Ballot Box” labels.
他觉得如果有一张照片，会有助于消除人们对他这个离奇故事的怀疑。在谷歌上搜索“选票箱”之后，他很快选定了一张照片，其中显示一名谢顶的工作人员站在几个黑色塑料箱后面，上面恰好标有“投票箱”字样。
He pushed the button and the story was launched on Sept. 30, blazing across the web like some kind of counterfeit comet. “Even before I posted it, I knew it would take off,” Harris recalled.
9月30日，他按下按钮，发布了这个故事，之后它便像某种假冒彗星一样传遍了网络。“早在发布之前，我就知道它会大受关注，”哈里斯回忆道。
He was correct. The ballot box story, promoted by a half-dozen Facebook pages Harris had created for the purpose, flew around the web, fueled by indignant comments from people who were certain that Clinton was going to cheat Trump of victory and who welcomed the proof. It was eventually shared with 6 million people, according to CrowdTangle, which tracks web audiences.
他说对了。这篇有关投票箱的文章——在哈里斯专门创建的六个Facebook主页上得到宣传——传遍网络，愤怒的评论成为推动力量，这些评论者确定克林顿会作弊以战胜特朗普，乐得看到有证据。据追踪网络受众的平台CrowdTangle统计，它最终获得了600万人次的转发。
The next day, the Franklin County, Ohio, board of elections announced that it was investigating and that the fraud claims appeared to be untrue. Within days, Ohio’s secretary of state, Jon Husted, issued a statement to deny the story.
第二天，俄亥俄州富兰克林县选举委员会宣布它正在进行调查，并表示造假的说法好像并不属实。几天后，俄亥俄州州务卿约恩·赫斯特德(Jon Husted)发布了一份声明，否定了这篇报道的真实性。
“A Christian myself, I take offense to reading such unbelievable lies from a publication alleging Christian ties,” Husted said.
“作为一名基督徒，从一个自称与基督徒有关的出版物读到这种让人难以置信的谎言，我感觉受到了冒犯，”赫斯特德表示。
There was nothing especially Christian about his efforts, Harris admits; he had simply bought the abandoned web address for $5 at ExpiredDomains.net. Within a few days, the story, which had taken him 15 minutes to concoct, had earned him about $5,000. That was a sizable share of the $22,000 an accounting statement shows he made during the presidential campaign from ads for shoes, hair gel and web design that Google had placed on his site.
哈里斯承认，他所做的并没有什么特别体现基督精神的；他只是从过期域名网站ExpiredDomains.net花5美元买下了这个废弃的网址。几天之内，他花15分钟编造出来的这篇报道就为他赚到了约5000美元。一份会计报表显示，他在竞选期间从谷歌在他的网站上设置的鞋、发胶和网页设计的广告中获得了2.2万收入，上述5000美元是其中的一大块。
He had put in perhaps half an hour a week on the fake news site, he said, for a total of about 20 hours. He would come close to a far bigger payday, one that might have turned the $5 he had spent on the Christian Times domain into more than $100,000.
他说他每周花在这个假新闻网站上的时间大约有半小时，总计约20个小时。他曾经有机会让他为这个Christian Times域名所花的5美元，变成10万美元，结果错失了。
In late October, with the inevitable end of his venture approaching, Harris sought an appraisal for the web domain that by then had vaulted into the web’s top 20,000 sites. An appraiser said that given the traffic, he could probably sell it for between $115,000 and $125,000.
去年10月底，为了寻求风险投资，他不可避免地请人对这个已经跻身互联网前2万位的域名进行估值。一位评估人员表示，依据当时的流量，他大概能卖到11.5至12.5万美元。
But Harris made a costly mistake: He decided to wait. Days after the election, denounced for making the peddling of fake news remunerative, Google announced that it would no longer place ads on sites promoting clearly fabricated stories.
但哈里斯犯了一个代价不菲的错误：他决定再等一等。大选结束后没几天，因为被谴责让传播假新闻的行为有利可图，谷歌宣布它将不再在宣传明显是假消息的网站上设置广告链接。
A few days later, when Harris checked his site, the ads were gone. He checked with the appraiser and was told that the domain was now essentially worthless.
几天后，当哈里斯查看自己的网站时，便发现广告链接不见了。他再次询问那位估值人员，后者表示这个域名现在基本一钱不值了。
All was not lost, however. He had put a pop-up on the site inviting visitors to “join the ‘Stop the Steal’ team to find out HOW Hillary plans to steal the election and what YOU can do to stop her!” and collected 24,000 email addresses. He has not yet decided what to do with them, he said.
然而，也不是什么都没剩下。他曾经在网站上设置一个弹出页面，邀请读者“加入‘阻止作弊’团队，认清希拉里通过作弊赢得大选的计划，并了解你可以做些什么来阻止她！”并因此收到2.4万封邮件。他说还没有想好如何处理它们。
Asked whether he felt any guilt at having spread lies about a presidential candidate, Harris grew thoughtful. But he took refuge in the notion that politics is by its nature replete with exaggerations, half-truths and outright whoppers, so he was hardly adding much to the sum total.
在被问到是否为传播有关一位总统候选人的谎言而感到愧疚时，哈里斯沉思起来。但他拿一种概念当了挡箭牌，即政治本质上就充斥着夸大之词、半真半假的话和明目张胆的谎言，所以他所做的对于总数而言是九牛一毛。
“Hardly anything a campaign or a candidate says is completely true,” he said.
“一场竞选和一位候选人说的话，几乎没有什么是完全真实的，”他说。