HAENAM, South Korea — Back in the 1970s and ’80s, when the South Korean government was focused on alleviating poverty, Kim Chung-jae and other health officials toured villages to persuade couples to practice birth control.
韩国海南——在七八十年代，当韩国政府致力于缓解贫困的时候，金中才（Kim Chung-jae，音）等卫生官员曾深入乡村，动员农村夫妻实行计划生育。
They distributed condoms and birth control pills. They asked women to have tubectomies and men to have vasectomies, offering incentives like sacks of flour for wives and exemptions from army reserve training for husbands. Those willing were taken to clinics to have the procedures.
他们发放安全套和避孕药，请求妻子和丈夫做结扎手术，并实行奖励措施。例如，向做手术的妇女赠送面粉，免除丈夫的预备役训练等。那些愿意这么做的人被带到诊所进行手术。
“The Home Ministry set a quota on how many men and wives we should persuade to have a vasectomy or tubectomy,” Mr. Kim said. “No public servant serious about his career could ignore it.”
金先生说：“内务部设定了应做结扎手术的男女人数指标。任何关心前程的公务员都不可能对此掉以轻心。”
Fast-forward to 2015, and Mr. Kim and his colleagues are doing exactly the opposite: trying to persuade couples to have more babies. They hand out monthly cash allowances and deliver boxes of beef and baby clothes to families with newborns. They place newspaper ads welcoming the births. They offer the service of Confucian scholars to come up with propitious names for babies.
现在，转眼到了2015年，金先生及其同事做的却是完全相反的事情：努力说服伴侣们养育更多孩子。他们向新生儿家庭提供每月现金补助，送上一箱箱的牛肉和婴儿服装。他们甚至在报纸上登广告，欢迎新生命的降临。他们还安排儒家学者提供起名服务，让新生儿有个吉祥的名字。
And it seems their efforts have paid off.
他们的努力似乎收到了成效。
For three consecutive years, Haenam, a farming county at the southwestern tip of the Korean Peninsula, has had the highest fertility rate in South Korea, a rare bright spot in a country some doomsayers predicted would become “extinct” in several centuries if it maintained the same birthrate, one of the world’s lowest at 1.2 children per woman.
作为朝鲜半岛西南角的一个农业郡，海南已连续三年摘得全国生育率最高的桂冠。韩国目前每个女性生育1.2个孩子，是世界生育率最低的国家之一。曾有悲观者预言，如果这个生育率保持不变，韩国几百年后将会“灭绝”。海南如今的成果，实在是难得的亮点。
Haenam is the only South Korean county whose birthrate of 2.4 children per woman is above the “replacement-level fertility” level of 2.1 children, a rate that allows a society to maintain its current population without migration.
现在，海南的生育率达到了每个妇女2.4个孩子，是韩国唯一超过生育更替水平——2.1个孩子——的郡。生育更替水平指的是，在没有移民的情况下，保持社会当前人口不变的生育率。
Until the fertility drive began several years ago, Haenam had followed a typical demographic path created by the country’s rapid industrialization and vigorous birth control policies.
在数年前开始鼓励生育之前，海南所走的是一条典型的人口路线：由于国家快速工业化以及有力的生育控制政策，生育率不断下降。
The military government pushed its campaign relentlessly into the 1970s, when it urged families to have “just two children and raise them well.” A national homemakers’ club exhorted women to show their “love for the country with contraception.”
七十年代，当时的军政府不懈地推行生育控制运动，强烈要求各个家庭“只要两个孩子，好好养育他们”。一家全国性的家庭妇女社团曾告诫女性“用避孕来表现爱国”。
In the 1980s, the government helped push the fertility rate below two children per woman, warning, “Two are too many.” Newspaper ads from a national family planning association told families with more than two children to feel “ashamed.”
到了八十年代，政府发出“两个孩子太多”的警告，推动生育率进一步降至每个妇女两个孩子以下。某家全国性的计划生育协会曾在报纸上做广告，宣称有两个以上孩子的家庭应感到“羞耻”。
South Korea’s fertility rate, once as high as six babies per woman, in 1960, ranged between 1.1 and 1.3 per woman for the past 15 years. The decline was the steepest in rural areas, which young people fled in droves for better-paying jobs in cities.
在六十年代，韩国的生育率曾一度高达每个妇女六个孩子；而在过去的15年里，此项数据在每个妇女1.1到1.3个孩子之间徘徊。乡村地区的下降最为明显，因为年轻人纷纷到城市里寻找收入更高的工作去了。
The number of newborns in Haenam plunged to 510 in 2011, from 12,063 in 1976.
1976年，海南的新生儿达12063人，而2011年已猛降至510人。
By the time Haenam, like South Korea as a whole, realized that its birth control policies had been too effective for its own good, the task of reversing the drop in fertility proved far more complex than anticipated.
等到海南和韩国上下认识到生育控制政策的效果太好而走向其反面时，事实证明，扭转生育率下降的任务远比预想的复杂。
For families, having one or two children and “raising them well” meant focusing resources on education. This created a cutthroat competition for college entrance exams and drove up the cost of education, including the rising use of private tutors and so-called cram schools.
对于家庭而言，生育一两个孩子并“好好养育他们”意味着要将资源集中在教育上。这使得高考的竞争异常残酷，并抬升了教育的成本，其中包括越来越多的人请家教以及上补习班。
Many women entered the job market, but still felt pressure to quit once they became pregnant. For most of them, an extended parental leave with the option of returning to work, although a legal right, remains but a dream.
许多妇女进入了职场，但在怀孕后仍感到离职的压力。对于大多数职业女性而言，虽然法律赋予了长期产假后选择重新回去工作的权利，但在实际中却并不可行。
And both women and men often choose to remain single or to marry late and have only one child.
无论男女，选择保持单身或者晚婚并只生一个孩子的现象均很常见。
“No one had thought of using a family leave in the past,” said Min Young-seon, 35, a government welfare official in Haenam. “I had to rely on my parents to look after my first two babies while I reported back to work after three months.”
今年35岁的闵永善（Min Young-seon，音）是海南的一名福利官员。她说：“过去，从来没有人想过休家庭假。我生头两个孩子三个月后回去上班，得靠父母来照看他们。”
After Ms. Min gave birth to her third child last year, Haenam allowed her to take a one-and-a-half-year maternity leave.
去年，在闵女士生了第三个孩子后，海南郡政府允许她休一年半的产假。
In mountainous South Korea, Haenam is endowed with flat land suitable for farming; it produces more rice than any other county. That should have made it a stable place for families that farm, but young people have fled it for better-paying jobs in cities, as they have elsewhere. Its population has shrunk to 76,000 from about 235,000 in 1969, and 28 percent of its residents are 65 or older.
在多山的韩国，海南有着得天独厚适合耕种的平地；该郡的大米产量全国第一。对于务民家庭，这本应是个可以稳定生活的地方，但像别处一样，年轻人却在逃离，跑到城里去寻找收入更高的工作。郡里的人口已从1969年的23.5万左右缩减到现在的7.6万，并且28%的居民年龄至少为65岁。
As part of its efforts to change the community’s attitude toward child-raising, Haenam is seeking to persuade private businesses to give female employees longer maternity leaves. It is also running a camp to teach men how to be better fathers to young children. The county runs matchmaking groups for singles, and it offers cheap loans and other incentives to attract 800 young families migrating back from cities to try farming.
为了改变社会对养育孩子的态度，海南所做的工作之一是寻求让私营企业为女性员工提供更长的产假。此外，他们开设了训练营，教育男人如何更好地为人父。郡里还为单身人士举办相亲会，并提供低息贷款等激励措施，希望能吸引800个年轻家庭回乡务农。
After hitting a low in 2011, the number of newborns in Haenam climbed to 799 in 2012, to 808 in 2013 and to 823 last year. In September, Haenam became the second rural county to open a public postnatal care center.
在2011年达到最低点后，2012年海南的新生儿人数上升至799人，2013年升至808人，去年则升至823人。今年9月，海南成为韩国第二个开办公共产后护理中心的农业郡。
Mr. Kim, the health official, has won a medal from the central government for his role in the baby drive. Perhaps unsurprisingly, he is optimistic about the prospects of Haenam, among the most remote counties in South Korea.
卫生官员金先生获得了中央政府颁发的一枚奖章，表彰他在促进生育方面的贡献。作为韩国最边远的郡之一，他对海南的前景持乐观态度。这也许并不出人意料。