Angelina Jolie makes a fabulous monster. As the title character in “Maleficent” — a divertingly different rethink of an awfully old story — she breezes through the movie, part superstar, part superfreak.
安吉丽娜·朱莉(Angelina Jolie)造就了一个非凡的怪物。《沉睡魔咒》(Maleficent)对一个非常古老的故事做了有趣而不同的反思，她在里面饰演主角玛琳菲森，轻松地串起全片，半像超级明星，半像超级怪人。
Her red mouth slashes across the screen while her clothes billow like storm clouds, her body framed by enormous shimmering wings and her head capped by a pair of majestic horns. The wings allow her to soar, but the horns mainly give her character a distinctly Freudian kink, some phallic enhancement to go with the fairy tale enchantment. And, my, what big horns they are.
她的红唇贯穿整个银幕，翻涌的衣服如同暴雨中的乌云，她的身体上生着微微闪光的巨大双翼，头上顶着两只华丽的角。这对翅膀让她飞翔，但这两只角又赋予角色一种明显的弗洛伊德式的奇想，给迷人的童话故事带来了生殖崇拜的气息。而且，天哪，这两只角可真不小。
She wears them like a crown in this live-action postscript to the visually stunning 1959 Disney animated musical “Sleeping Beauty.” This time, the focus isn’t on the beautiful, blond Aurora, who falls into a deep, bewitched sleep after pricking her finger on a spindle, but rather on the sinister scene stealer who cursed her in a fit of pique and a puff of acid-green smoke. As it turns out, Maleficent (it rhymes with magnificent) had her reasons and a back story to go with them. Soothingly introduced in voice-over by Janet McTeer, Maleficent’s story opens when she was a happy young fairy (Isobelle Molloy and Ella Purnell) living in, and flying over, the moors, a lush, computer-generated wonderland populated by cute uglies and delicately mossy, twiggy giants.
在《沉睡魔咒》中，这两只角就像王冠一样顶在她头上，该片是1959年视觉效果出众的迪斯尼动画音乐片《睡美人》(Sleeping Beauty)的真人衍生版本。这一次，焦点不再是美丽的金发奥洛拉(Aurora)，她在魔法的力量下，被纺车扎破手指陷入沉睡；反而是那个由于赌气而诅咒奥洛拉，化身为一股惨绿烟雾，抢尽风头的邪恶女巫。原来，玛琳菲森（和“高贵华丽”谐音）有她这样做的理由和背景。珍妮·麦克蒂尔(Janet McTeer)的画外音娓娓道来，讲出了玛琳菲森的故事，她曾是一个快乐的年轻仙女（伊莎贝尔·莫洛伊[Isobelle Molloy]与艾拉·珀内尔[Ella Purnell]饰），能够飞翔，住在原野之中。这个繁茂葱翠的仙境是用电脑效果制作出来的，里面还住着可爱的怪物和周身布满苔藓与枝桠的纤细巨人。
Trouble enters in the form of a human boy, Stefan, a farmhand who’s caught pilfering a stone, a seemingly small act that reverberates as loudly as Klaxon horns. Maleficent forgives him; a friendship is born; time rushes by — it’s obvious that the filmmakers can’t wait to bring in Ms. Jolie — and the friendship evolves into a puppyish romance, sealed with a kiss. Stefan seems nice enough, if bland, and he’s played first by Michael Higgins and then, briefly, by Jackson Bews. Before long, though, Ms. Jolie has taken to the skies while, back in the human realm, Sharlto Copley has brought the adult Stefan ploddingly, disappointingly down to earth. Casting is destiny in a lot of movies; one look at the twitchy, shifty-eyed adult Stefan, and it’s clear that Mr. Copley won’t be continuing the romance.
麻烦来了，农场工人，人类男孩斯坦芬被抓到偷了一块石头，这似乎是一件小事，却引发了巨大的回音。玛琳菲森原谅了他，友谊开始在两人之间产生；时光飞逝——显然，制片人们等不及要让朱莉登场了——友情变成了纯真的爱情，两人开始接吻。斯坦芬虽说有点普通，但也很不错了，他先是由迈克尔·希金斯(Michael Higgins)饰演，之后又短暂地由杰克逊·比尤斯(Jackson Bews)饰演。不久后，朱莉就开始在空中飞翔，来到人类的国土，沙尔托·科普雷(Sharlto Copley)饰演成年的斯坦芬，沉重乏味，现实得令人扫兴。在很多影片中，选角会透露命运；看着这个焦躁不安、眼神游离的成年斯坦芬，显然科普雷先生没法再继续诠释浪漫故事了。
He doesn’t. Instead, he betrays Maleficent and, in one of the movie’s muddled sections, helps wage war against her land. Her wings literally clipped, Maleficent retreats into her dark place like a grounded Valkyrie, casting shadows over her world to go with her mood. Stefan assumes the throne and, years later, he and his forgettable queen have a child, Aurora.
他确实没有。而且他还背叛了玛琳菲森，在影片的一个含糊的片段里，他帮助人类发起战争，攻打她的国土。她的翅膀被割断了，玛琳菲森回到了自己的幽暗之地，像一个脚踏大地的女战神，出于阴郁的心情，在自己的世界中投下阴影。斯坦芬得到了王位，几年后，他和没什么存在感的王后有了孩子：奥洛拉。
At this point, the filmmakers pick up the “Sleeping Beauty” thread and begin weaving it into Maleficent’s story, so, again, there are a christening and a curse, and Aurora is squired away by a troika of pixies (a tolerably amusing Imelda Staunton, Lesley Manville and Juno Temple), who raise her in a forest cottage. There, she grows up (and eventually into Elle Fanning) under the gaze of Maleficent, which is where this rethink gets going.
到这里，制片人们拾起了《睡美人》中的线头，把它编进玛琳菲森的故事，于是洗礼和诅咒再度上演了，之后奥洛拉被三个小精灵带走（她们由伊梅尔达·斯汤顿[Imelda Staunton]、莱斯利·曼维尔[Lesley Manville]和朱诺·坦普尔[Juno Temple]饰演，还算挺有趣的），她们在一座森林小屋里抚养她。最后，她由艾拉·范宁(Elle Fanning)饰演，在玛琳菲森的关注下长大，正是在这里，反思开始了。
In broad strokes, “Maleficent” is Disney’s latest bid to recast a dusty story for a contemporary audience, one that has, over the years, complained with good reason about the company’s representations, particularly of female characters. For decades, Disney has responded with an array of plucky girls and women whose desires extend beyond romantic longing. Usually, they have adventures, and not just dreams, to go with their wasp waists and froufrou. Sometimes they save the day and their true love, which is better and more fun than waiting to be saved. Yet Disney heroines, whether princesses or not, have almost always ended up as reliably paired off as if they were boarding Noah’s ark. A notable exception is Queen Elsa in “Frozen,” a very different kind of heroine.
大体说来，《沉睡魔咒》是迪斯尼的最新尝试，为现代观众重新诠释一个俗套的故事，多年来，人们有很正当的理由来批评这个故事，因为它代表了迪斯尼公司对女性角色的呈现方式。几十年来，迪斯尼推出了一系列勇敢的女孩和女人们，她们渴望的，不仅仅是浪漫的爱情。她们腰肢纤细、穿着华丽，通常都要经历冒险，而不仅仅是做做梦就好。有时候她们还能转危为安，收获真爱，这比坐等被拯救要好，也更有意思。但是迪斯尼的女主角们，不管是不是公主，最后的结局几乎总是找到可靠的伴侣，就好像诺亚方舟上的动物一样。《冰雪奇缘》(Frozen)中的艾莎女王(Queen Elsa)是个显著的例外，一个非常不一样的女主角。
That Elsa remains single in “Frozen” has inspired some widely, wildly divergent readings of that movie, with some commentators claiming her as a L.G.B.T. representation, and others denouncing her for the same reason. It’s entirely possible that “Maleficent,” partly because it’s narratively weak and Ms. Jolie is a powerful screen presence, will inspire its share of warring interpretations (and dismissals). The movie, directed by Robert Stromberg from Linda Woolverton’s script, draws on Disney’s “Sleeping Beauty” and Charles Perrault’s version of the tale. Despite this, the narrative linchpin isn’t Aurora: It’s Maleficent, who doesn’t fit the fairy tale template largely because of her relationships. Stefan angers her, but she so gets over him and soon shifts her attention elsewhere.
艾莎在《冰雪奇缘》中一直是单身，启发了对这部电影各种各样的疯狂解读，有些评论家觉得她是代表了同性恋、双性恋与跨性别者们，还有人因此而谴责她。《沉睡魔咒》也完全有可能激发针锋相对的解读和反驳，部分是由于叙事的部分太弱，而朱莉又有强大的银幕气场。这部影片由罗伯特·斯特罗姆伯格(Robert Stromberg)导演，琳达·伍尔夫顿(Linda Woolverton)编剧，借用了迪斯尼的《睡美人》与夏尔·佩罗(Charles Perrault)的版本。尽管如此，叙事的关键却不是奥洛拉，而是玛琳菲森，因为她的恋情问题，她很不适合童话的模版。斯坦芬激怒了她，但她克服过去了，很快把注意力转向了别处。
Mr. Stromberg, a production designer making his feature directing debut, does best when he scales down, as in the lovely shots of Maleficent walking next to a floating, unconscious Aurora, an image that telegraphs more about their relationship than any line of dialogue. The action scenes, by contrast, are visually uninteresting, borderline generic and unnecessary. There are also far too many long shots when the digital renderings (especially those with human figures) pull you out of the story instead of keeping you immersed. But there’s so much to look at in the movie — from the wittily designed creatures to the shocks of bilious green and purple — that the battles quickly fade. (The colors are, as is a galloping race to the rescue, among the many nods to the 1959 “Sleeping Beauty.”)
斯特罗姆伯格是一位产品设计师，这是他首次执导电影长片，他在拍小场面时做得很好，比如玛琳菲森走在漂浮的、失去意识的奥洛拉身边的那些可爱镜头，这一幕比任何对话都能传递出两人之间的关系。相反，动作场面在视觉上没什么趣味，介于一般和多余之间。在使用数码特效背景（特别是在人类角色的戏里）的时候用了太多长镜头，这让人出戏，而不是让人沉浸其中。但影片中有太多可看的东西了——从精心设计的生物到骇人的胆汁绿与紫色——于是战争场面就这么飞快地过去了（这些色彩是用在一场救人的赛跑戏里的，是对1959年的《睡美人》的众多致敬之一）。
Ms. Jolie is, unsurprisingly, a visual marvel. Her face has been smoothed into an alabaster Cubist mask, and prostheses elongate her already sharp cheekbones; from some angles, it looks as if she had a second set of vestigial wings riding under her skin. The exquisite attention to detail in both the makeup and costume is routine in major productions like this one, of course, but the mixture of Old Hollywood glamour and contemporary fetishwear doesn’t just turn Maleficent into a pleasurable spectacle, it also serves a character who embodies both the past and the future. Ms. Jolie’s performance is similarly bifurcated, with a controlled physicality that, just when it seems to be edging into catwalk blankness, springs to weird life with grotesque facial contortions and spidery movements.
不出所料，朱莉堪称视觉奇观。她的面孔变得平和，仿佛戴着雪花石膏的立体面具，假体化妆术延长了她本来就很高的颧骨；从某些角度看上去，仿佛她的肌肤之下还残存着第二对翅膀。当然，在化妆和服装方面讲究细节是这种大制作影片的惯例。但是老式好莱坞的魅力与现代女神的装扮混合在一起，并不仅仅是让玛琳菲森成为一个赏心悦目的奇观，也让这个角色呈现出过去与未来。朱莉的表演同样是分裂的，带有精心控制的肉体性，在快要变成模特式的空洞时，突然出现诡异的面部扭曲和蜘蛛般的动作，为角色带来奇异的生命。
Bruno Bettelheim, that great reader of fairy tales, saw “The Sleeping Beauty” as a story of sexual awakening. She wakes only when physically and emotionally mature enough, when she is ready for love and its familiar handmaidens: sex and marriage. It’s at that point, Bettelheim writes in “The Uses of Enchantment,” “the wall of thorns suddenly turns into a wall of big, beautiful flowers, which opens to let the prince enter.” That’s quite the metaphor, but for women, it has sometimes also been a curse, including in movies, where they have traditionally had to wait for a man to get them to their happily ever after. There’s no denying the attractions of that narrative for some of us: Even Lena Dunham got swept off her feet.
童话的伟大读者布鲁诺·贝托汉(Bruno Bettelheim)认为《睡美人》是关于性觉醒的故事。公主只有当身体和情感足够成熟时才能醒来，这时她已经为爱情与爱情的婢女——性和婚姻——做好了准备。关于这个论点，贝托汉在《着迷的作用》(The Uses of Enchantment)中写道：“荆棘墙突然变成了巨大美丽的花墙，向王子敞开，让他进入。”这是一种隐喻，但对于女人来说，有时也是一种诅咒，包括在电影中也是，传统上，她们得等待一个男人来让她们永远快乐。毫无疑问，这种叙事对我们之中有些人是很有吸引力的，就连莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)也曾经被打败过。
But, come on! There’s more to life and certainly more to women, which is something that, however imperfectly, “Maleficent” grapples with. I’m still not sure if the movie’s smack-down between patriarchy and matriarchy is the way to go, but at least nobody here is warbling about what she wants before hitting the road to self-actualization.
但是，等一下。生活里还有更多东西，对于女人来说，当然还有更多东西，这就是《沉睡魔咒》试图对付的主题，虽然做得并不完美。我不能确定这部影片在父权制和母权制之间的挣扎是解决的办法，但是至少在这部影片里，女人们不会在踏上自我实现的道路之前就用小鸟般的歌喉歌唱自己想要的东西。
Consciously or not, coherently or not, “Maleficent” tells a new kind of story about how we live now, not once upon another time. And it does so by suggesting, among other things, that budding girls and older women are not natural foes, even if that’s what fairy tales, Hollywood and the world like to tell us. And while that may sound drippy, it’s exactly the kind of hokey that, movie by movie, may finally make a real difference.
不管是否出于自觉，不管条理是否分明，《沉睡魔咒》讲了一个关于我们的生活的新故事，而不是又一个古老童话。它提出的一个重要观点就是，含苞待放的少女与年长一些的女人并非天敌——尽管童话、好莱坞以及整个世界告诉我们她们就是天敌。说来可能伤感，一部又一部电影都是这种俗套，现在终于有点不一样了。