When Kim Jong-un becomes the first North Korean leader to cross into South Korean territory on Friday, walking over the Military Demarcation Line and welcomed by President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, it will be a moment to remember in a conflict that has lasted for nearly seven decades.
周五，金正恩(Kim Jong-un)跨过军事分界线，接受韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)的欢迎，成为首位踏上韩国领土的朝鲜领导人。在一场持续了近70年的冲突中，这将是一个值得铭记的时刻。
The summit meeting’s location has come to symbolize the conflict. It it taking place in the truce village of Panmunjom, a cluster of buildings in what is known as the demilitarized zone, or DMZ, a strip of land along the 38th parallel that divides the Korean Peninsula. The meeting is reminiscent of the talks in Panmunjom that yielded an armistice – but never a formal end – to the 1950-1953 Korean War.
举行此次首脑会谈的停战村板门店已经成了这场冲突的象征。它由一系列建筑构成，地处非军事区，又称DMZ内。非军事区是一个沿北纬38度线分布的狭长地带，将朝鲜半岛一分为二。这次会议让人想起了多年前在板门店举行的谈判。它们为1950至1953年的那场朝鲜战争带来了休战，但不是正式的结束。
Everything from the choice of furniture to the food served is rich with meaning. The distance separating Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim at the oval-shaped negotiation table is 2,018 millimeters – a nod to the year of the meeting.
从家具选择到供应的食物，一切都有着丰富的含义。在椭圆形的谈判桌上，文在寅和金正恩两人之间的距离是2018毫米，象征着举行会谈的年份。
The Truce Village
停战村
The Joint Security Area in the truce village of Panmunjom is considered neutral territory. Previous discussions held over the years by negotiators for North and South have often stalled there.
板门店停战村里的联合安全区(Joint Security Area)被认为是中立地带。朝韩两国的谈判代表之前在那里进行的谈判常常陷入停滞。
“Both sides have learned how to be very careful and circumspect in the language and symbolism they use,” said Charles Armstrong, a historian and professor at Columbia University in New York.
“双方都学会了如何在语言和使用的象征符号上做到非常小心谨慎，”纽约哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的历史专家、教授查尔斯·阿姆斯特朗(Charles Armstrong)说。
Panmunjom is sliced in two by the Military Demarcation Line. The summit meeting site in Panmunjom, Peace House, is technically on the South Korean side of the line.
板门店被军事分界线一分为二。首脑会谈的地点在板门店的和平之家(Peace House)，那里严格说来位于分界线的韩国一侧。
Some of Panmunjom’s buildings are administered by North Korea, some by the United Nations and some by South Korea. The village has had its share of tensions and violence over the years, including an ax attack by North Korean soldiers against an American soldier in 1976. Two men were killed, and a plaque in the Joint Security Area commemorates their deaths.
板门店的部分建筑由朝鲜管理，部分由联合国管理，还有一部分由韩国管理。多年来，板门店经历了紧张局势和暴力，包括1976年朝鲜士兵持斧攻击一名美国士兵。两名男子被杀，联合安全区内的一块纪念碑就是纪念他们的。
North and South held a joint rehearsal of the summit meeting this week to go through every detail of the talks, according to Kwun Hyuk-ki, a spokesman for South Korea’s government. A foot bridge that Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim are tol walk across together has been painted blue, a nod to the official color of the United Nations and of the Korean unification flag.
据韩国政府发言人权赫基(Kwun Hyuk-ki)称，朝鲜和韩国本周对会谈进行了一次联合排练，仔细检查了会谈的每一个细节。文在寅和金正恩将一同走过的步行桥被漆成了蓝色，这是联合国和朝鲜半岛统一旗的颜色。
The North Korean Panmongak Hall, also known as Panmon Hall, dominates the North Korean side of the truce village. It is North Korea’s operation center for the summit and the food preparation staff, including a chef from a Pyongyang restaurant specializing in a famous cold noodle dish, called naengmyeon, for the summit dinner.
停战村朝鲜一侧的主要建筑是板门阁(Panmongak Hall)。朝鲜为此次会谈成立的指挥中心，以及会谈晚宴的餐饮筹备人员都在那里。餐饮筹备人员中，有一名厨师来自平壤一家专做著名冷面的餐厅。
According to the South Korean government, President Moon suggested the dish, which required a noodle making machine from the restaurant to be brought in so the noodles could be served fresh.
据韩国政府称，冷面是总统文在寅建议的。该餐厅带了一台制作面条的机器，以便现做面条。
The Summit Room
会晤会场
Mr. Kim and Mr. Moon are meeting in a blue-carpeted conference room on the second floor of Peace House, seated at an oval-shaped table with legs that resemble two bridges merging. South Korea’s government said in a statement that the design had been intended to “help bridge the psychological distance stemming from the physical boundary marked by the Military Demarcation Line and 65 years of division.”
金正恩和文在寅将在和平之家二楼铺着蓝色地毯的会议室内进行会晤。他们将坐在一个椭圆形的桌子旁，桌腿像两座汇合的桥。韩国政府在声明中称，该设计旨在“帮助跨越以军事分界线为标志的实际边界和65年的分裂所带来的心理距离”。
Each side has seven seats. The two middle seats – for Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim – are larger than the others, but of equal size. The seatbacks are decorated with the outline of the Korean Peninsula.
桌子的两侧各有七把椅子。为文在寅和金正恩准备的中间两把椅子相对较大，但它们的大小一样。座椅靠背装饰有朝鲜半岛的轮廓。
Next to the conference table is a South Korean artist’s painting of North Korea’s Geumgangsan Mountain, also known as Mount Kumgang. The painting is intended to symbolize cooperation between the two Koreas, South , Korean officials said.
会议桌旁，是一位韩国艺术家画的朝鲜金刚山。韩国官员表示，这幅绘画的用意是象征朝韩两国的合作。
The mountain theme will also be reflected in a planned tree-planting ceremony, featuring a pine tree that dates back to 1953, when the armistice was signed, planted in a mixture of soil from North Korea’s Mount Paektu and South Korea’s Mount Hallasan. According to North Korean lore, the founder of the nation, Kim Il-sung, Mr. Kim’s grandfather, fought against the Japanese on Mount Paektu, and his son, Kim Jong-il, was born there. Mount Hallasan is South Korea’s tallest peak.
山的主题也将在计划的植树仪式上有所体现。仪式将使用一棵停战协定签署那一年——1953年的松树，并将其种在取自朝鲜白头山和韩国汉拿山的混合泥土中。根据朝鲜的传说，金正恩的祖父、朝鲜国父金日成曾在白头山抗击日本人，他的儿子金正日也出生于此。而汉拿山则是韩国的最高峰。
The Peace House
和平之家
The summit meeting room in the Peace House was not the only part of the building updated for the occasion. An extensive renovation was undertaken to reflect the significance of the meeting. Each piece of furniture and art was chosen with purpose.
为了这个时刻，不只有峰会会议室得到了翻新，和平之家内还进行了广泛的整修，以体现会晤的重要性。每件家具和艺术品的选择都别有用心。
A sofa for the two leaders displays the blue Korean unification flag. Other new pieces of furniture were made mostly from walnut – “not being prone to bending and warping over time,” said a South Korean government statement.
一张为两位领导人准备的沙发上有蓝色的朝鲜半岛统一旗。其他的新置家具大多由核桃木制成——韩国政府的声明写道，它们“不会随着时间的推移而弯曲、变形”。
Special decorations on the first floor include traditional Korean mulberry paper, known as hanji, which officials say is a nod to the the stylings of a comfortable North Korean home.
一楼的特别装饰还包括传统的韩国桑皮纸，即高丽纸。官员称，这符合朝鲜舒适的家庭风格。
The Dinner Menu
晚宴菜单
Items were sourced from across the Korean Peninsula, to honor North and South, but one stirred some diplomatic problems before the summit. A mango mousse, decorated with a Korean Peninsula map, irritated Japan because some of the islands on the map are claimed by Japan, which lodged an official complaint with South Korea.
为了向朝韩两国致敬，菜品选自整个朝鲜半岛，但有一道菜在会晤之前引发了一些外交问题。一个装饰着朝鲜半岛地图的芒果慕斯激怒了日本，因为日本对地图上的一些岛屿声称主权，他们对韩国提出了正式抗议。
Other menu items pay homage to the biographies of Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim. They include a John Dory fish -- the most popular fish in South Korea’s Busan Province, where Mr. Moon spent his childhood, and a Korean version of a Swiss dish, rosti, a reference to Mr. Kim’s childhood education at a school in Switzerland.
菜单上的其他菜品则是在向文在寅和金正恩生平经历致敬。其中有鲂鱼——文在寅童年所在的釜山最常见的鱼，还有韩式瑞士薯饼，意指金正恩在瑞士某学校度过的童年教育。