LONDON — For Chris Parker, the arena’s entrance area might have seemed like a good place to ask people for money. Stephen Jones had found a spot nearby to sleep.
伦敦——对于克里斯·帕克(Chris Parker)来说，体育场的入口处可能似乎是一个向人讨钱的好地方。斯蒂芬·琼斯(Stephen Jones)则在附近找了一个地方睡觉。
Now, the two men, both homeless, are being praised as heroes for helping victims of the Manchester Arena bombing.
现在，这两个无家可归的男子由于帮助曼彻斯特体育场爆炸案受害者，被赞为英雄。
As Manchester and the rest of Britain were trying to come to terms with the country’s deadliest terrorist attack in more than a decade, the two men are being hailed on social media for their selflessness and courage.
就在曼彻斯特和英国其他城市试图接受该国十多年来死伤最大的恐怖主义袭击之际，这两名男子因为无私和勇敢在社交媒体上获得了称赞。
Mr. Parker, 33, was panhandling when the bomb exploded, according to local news reports. The force of the blast knocked him to the floor, but he was unfazed.
据当地媒体报道，在炸弹爆炸时，33岁的帕克正在行乞。爆炸的威力把他掀翻在地，但他处变不惊。
Rather than running for safety, he went to the aid of victims, comforting a girl who had lost her legs, wrapping her in a T-shirt, and cradling a dying woman in his arms.
他没有跑向安全地带，而是去为受害者提供帮助，他安慰一个失去了双腿的女孩，用一件T恤把她包起来，还把一个垂死的女人抱在怀里。
Mr. Jones, 35, says he pulled nails out of children’s arms and faces.
35岁的琼斯说，他把钉子从一些孩子的手臂和脸上拔了出来。
“Just because I am homeless doesn’t mean I haven’t got a heart, or I’m not human still,” he told ITV News. “I’d like to think someone would come and help me if I needed the help,” he said, adding that he had been overcome by an “instinct” to pitch in.
“我无家可归，这并不意味着我没有心，不是人类，“他对ITV新闻说。“我想，如果我需要帮助，是会有人来帮助我的，”他还说，是参与的“本能”促使他采取行动。
“It was children,” he continued. “It was a lot of children with blood all over them and crying and screaming.”
“他们是些孩子，”他继续说。“有很多孩子全身是血，哭着，尖叫着。”
Mr. Parker told the news agency Press Association that amid the smoke and the shrieks after the explosion, he saw a little girl. “I wrapped her in one of the merchandise T-shirts, and I said, ‘Where is your mum and daddy?’ She said, ‘My dad is at work, my mum is up there,’” he was quoted as saying.
帕克告诉报联社(Press Association)，在爆炸后的烟雾和尖叫声中，他看到一个小女孩。“我用一件T恤包着她，问：‘你妈妈和爸爸在哪儿？’她说，‘我爸爸在工作，我的妈妈在那里。’”报道引用他的话说。
He also said he had tried to help an older woman who had head and leg injuries, but that she died in his arms.
他还表示，他曾试图帮助一名头部和腿部受伤的老年妇女，但是她死在了他怀里。
“She was in her 60s, and she had been with her family. I haven’t stopped crying,” he told the Press Association. “The most shocking part of it is that it was a kids’ concert.”
“她60多岁，和她的家人来的。我一直在哭，”他告诉报联社。“最令人震惊的地方就是，这是以孩子为主的演唱会。”
After his actions became known, an online fund-raising page was set up for Mr. Parker. By early afternoon on Wednesday it had raised 30,000 pounds, or almost $40,000.
帕克的事迹传出之后，有人为他开了一个在线筹款页面。周三刚到下午，就已经筹集到3万英镑（约合人民币26万元）。
Another fund, for Mr. Jones, was listed on the JustGiving site.
在JustGiving网站上，也有一个为琼斯筹款的项目。
The tragedy may have also helped to heal a family rift. After hearing about what Mr. Parker had done, his mother reached out.
这起悲剧可能也有助于治愈一道家庭裂痕。在听说帕克的事迹之后，他的母亲伸出了手。
“This is my son and I am desperate to get in touch with him,” she wrote on the fund-raising page. “We have been estranged for a very long time, and I had no idea he was homeless. I am very proud of him, and I think he might need me right now.”
“这是我的儿子，我非常想与他取得联系，”她在筹款页面上写道。“我们疏远已经很长时间了，我不知道他无家可归。我为他感到骄傲，我认为他现在可能需要我。”