The word “freedom” looms large in modern conservative rhetoric. Lobbying groups are given names like FreedomWorks; health reform is denounced not just for its cost but as an assault on, yes, freedom. Oh, and remember when we were supposed to refer to pommes frites as “freedom fries”?
“自由”是现代保守派言论中非常突出的一个词。保守派给游说团体起了像“自由事业”(FreedomWorks)这样的名字；他们抨击医疗改革的理由，不仅在于成本，而且还在于它侵犯了自由。对了，还记得我们要把炸薯条称为“自由薯条”的时候吗？
The right’s definition of freedom, however, isn’t one that, say, F.D.R. would recognize. In particular, the third of his famous Four Freedoms — freedom from want — seems to have been turned on its head. Conservatives seem, in particular, to believe that freedom’s just another word for not enough to eat.
然而，右翼对自由的定义绝不会得到富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)的认可。尤其是他著名的“四大自由”(Four Freedoms)中的第三条——不虞匮乏的自由(freedom from want)——似乎完全被曲解了。保守派似乎认为，自由只是“食不果腹”的另一种说法。
Hence the war on food stamps, which House Republicans have just voted to cut sharply even while voting to increase farm subsidies.
所以，众议院共和党人开始向食品券(food stamp)宣战，就在投票增加农场补贴的同时，刚刚投票大幅削减食品券开支。
In a way, you can see why the food stamp program — or, to use its proper name, the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) — has become a target. Conservatives are deeply committed to the view that the size of government has exploded under President Obama but face the awkward fact that public employment is down sharply, while overall spending has been falling fast as a share of G.D.P. SNAP, however, really has grown a lot, with enrollment rising from 26 million Americans in 2007 to almost 48 million now.
从某些方面来看，你能明白为何食品券项目——其正式名称为“营养补充援助计划”（Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program，简称SNAP）——会成为他们的攻击目标。保守派深信，在奥巴马总统任内，政府规模出现了急剧扩张。但他们却面临着这样一个尴尬的事实，即公共部门职员人数大减，而公共开支在GDP中所占的比例也在迅速降低。然而，SNAP的规模确实增加了不少，申领人数由2007年的2600万人增加到了现在的近4800万人。
Conservatives look at this and see what, to their great disappointment, they can’t find elsewhere in the data: runaway, explosive growth in a government program. The rest of us, however, see a safety-net program doing exactly what it’s supposed to do: help more people in a time of widespread economic distress.
保守派看到这种情况，便认为政府项目的开支已经失控，正在剧增。但令他们深感失望的是，他们无法从其他数据中得出这个结论。而在我们其他人看来，这只是一个社会安全网项目在履行义务：在这个经济不景气广为蔓延的时刻，为更多人提供帮助。
The recent growth of SNAP has indeed been unusual, but then so have the times, in the worst possible way. The Great Recession of 2007-9 was the worst slump since the Great Depression, and the recovery that followed has been very weak. Multiple careful economic studies have shown that the economic downturn explains the great bulk of the increase in food stamp use. And while the economic news has been generally bad, one piece of good news is that food stamps have at least mitigated the hardship, keeping millions of Americans out of poverty.
SNAP最近的增长的确不同寻常，而当前的形势也并不寻常，甚至已经达到了最糟糕的状态。从2007年到2009年的大衰退(Great Recession)是继大萧条(Great Depression)之后最严重的经济衰退，而其后的复苏情况也一直不甚理想。多项细致的经济研究表明，此次经济衰退解释了为何食品券的使用会大量增加。虽然关于经济的报道一般没什么好消息，但其中一条好消息就是，食品券至少缓解了人们的痛苦，帮数百万美国人脱离了贫困。
Nor is that the program’s only benefit. The evidence is now overwhelming that spending cuts in a depressed economy deepen the slump, yet government spending has been falling anyway. SNAP, however, is one program that has been expanding, and as such it has indirectly helped save hundreds of thousands of jobs.
这也并不是该项目唯一的好处。目前已有大量证据表明，在经济受到抑制时削减开支只会加深衰退程度，但是政府却仍然一直在削减开支。尽管如此，SNAP项目一直扩张，也正因如此，它才间接地帮美国保住了数十万个工作岗位。
But, say the usual suspects, the recession ended in 2009. Why hasn’t recovery brought the SNAP rolls down? The answer is, while the recession did indeed officially end in 2009, what we’ve had since then is a recovery of, by and for a small number of people at the top of the income distribution, with none of the gains trickling down to the less fortunate. Adjusted for inflation, the income of the top 1 percent rose 31 percent from 2009 to 2012, but the real income of the bottom 40 percent actually fell 6 percent. Why should food stamp usage have gone down?
但是，倘若真如人们一般所言，2009年经济衰退就结束了，为什么经济的恢复没有缩小SNAP的规模呢？答案就是，虽然根据官方说法，经济衰退的确已于2009年结束，但是从那以后，经济复苏成了一场处于收入分配顶层的少数人的复苏，由这些人引领，让这些人受益，而较为不幸的民众根本无法分享到任何好处。将通胀因素考虑在内，从2009年到2012年，处于收入分配顶层1%的人群的收入增加了31%，而处于底层40%的人的收入却降低了6%。那么食品券的使用又怎么会减少呢？
Still, is SNAP in general a good idea? Or is it, as Paul Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, puts it, an example of turning the safety net into “a hammock that lulls able-bodied people to lives of dependency and complacency.”
从整体来看，SNAP算是一个好主意吗？或者还是如众议院预算委员会(House Budget Committee)主席保罗·瑞安所说，它只是把社会安全网变成“诱使身体健全的人们依赖他人、满足现状的吊床”的又一实例？
One answer is, some hammock: last year, average food stamp benefits were $4.45 a day. Also, about those “able-bodied people”: almost two-thirds of SNAP beneficiaries are children, elderly or disabled, and most of the rest are adults with children.
这里有一个答案。我们来看看其中的一些“吊床”：去年的平均食品券补贴为每天4.45美元（约合27元人民币）。我们再来看看这些“身体健全的人”：近三分之二的SNAP受益者都是儿童、老年人或残疾人，其余受益者中大部分都是带孩子的成年人。
Beyond that, however, you might think that ensuring adequate nutrition for children, which is a large part of what SNAP does, actually makes it less, not more likely that those children will be poor and need public assistance when they grow up. And that’s what the evidence shows. The economists Hilary Hoynes and Diane Whitmore Schanzenbach have studied the impact of the food stamp program in the 1960s and 1970s, when it was gradually rolled out across the country. They find that children who received early assistance grew up, on average, to be healthier and more productive adults than those who didn’t — and they were also, it turns out, less likely to turn to the safety net for help.
除此之外，你可能会觉得，确保儿童营养充足——SNAP项目的一项重要功能——实际上使儿童长大后非常贫穷，需要政府援助的可能性变得更小，而不是更大。这就是相关证据所展示的。经济学家希拉里·霍因斯(Hilary Hoynes)和戴安娜·惠特莫尔·尚岑巴赫(Diane Whitmore Schanzenbach)曾研究过20世纪60及70年代食品券项目的影响，当时该项目逐渐在全国范围内推广。他们发现，那些早期接受援助的儿童长大成人后通常会比没在早期接受援助的儿童更健康，生产能力更强，而且他们向社会安全网寻求帮助的可能性也相对更低。
SNAP, in short, is public policy at its best. It not only helps those in need; it helps them help themselves. And it has done yeoman work in the economic crisis, mitigating suffering and protecting jobs at a time when all too many policy makers seem determined to do the opposite. So it tells you something that conservatives have singled out this of all programs for special ire.
总之，SNAP是公共政策的榜样。它不仅帮助那些需要帮助的人，还有助于他们进行自救。该项目在经济危机期间做了一些切实可靠的工作——减轻痛苦，保障就业，而当时有太多政策制定者似乎都在做相反的事情。在所有项目中，保守派单单对该项目特别不满，你从这里应该明白一些什么。
Even some conservative pundits worry that the war on food stamps, especially combined with the vote to increase farm subsidies, is bad for the G.O.P., because it makes Republicans look like meanspirited class warriors. Indeed it does. And that’s because they are.
连一些保守派人士都担心，食品券之争对共和党不利，特别是再考虑到就增加农场补贴进行的投票，因为这使共和党人看起来像是吝啬的阶级战士。事实的确如此。那是因为他们本来就是。