OUR fully automated, meme-conscious information economy might seem a paradise of reason and rationality. But it also has a seamier, surreal side. Just consider how the phrase “Keep Calm and Rape a Lot” came to appear on T-shirts sold on Amazon.co.uk.
时下这个全自动的、具备网络热点辨别意识的信息经济社会，似乎应该是理性与理智的天堂。然而它也有较以往更污秽、超现实的一面。写着“保持冷静、继续强奸”的T恤可以摆在亚马逊英国网站(Amazon.co.uk)上公然叫卖，足以说明些问题。
What fool decided to design and sell such clothing? That’s the problem: no one did. They were the unfortunate but revealing result of an algorithm that generates random phrases and slaps them on print-on-demand T-shirts, on the odd chance that someone might buy them.
哪个蠢货想出来设计、销售这么一件衣服呢？问题来了：它不是谁做的。它们是由计算机算法得出的一个令人遗憾但又很说明问题的结果，这种算法会随机生成一些可以打在接单定制T恤上的语句，等待着某人来购买。
The T-shirts come from Solid Gold Bomb, a company that tried to parody the phrase “Keep Calm and Carry On,” originally the text of a World War II propaganda poster undergoing a sudden cultural renaissance.
T恤的出品人是纯金炸弹公司(Solid Gold Bomb)，他们的想法是恶搞“保持冷静、继续前进”(Keep Calm and Carry On)，这句话本为二战宣传海报上的口号，如今却突然成了“文化复兴”的对象。
Having found its golden meme, Solid Gold Bomb wrote a computer script to churn out hundreds of T-shirt designs riffing on the phrase — “Keep Calm and Dream On” to “Keep Calm and Dance Off.” In theory, Solid Gold Bomb could be selling billions of them, for they only become “real” once an order is made. It’s the infinite monkey theorem, applied to products: with time, the algorithms would produce a T-shirt someone wants.
纯金炸弹看到了这股热潮的兴起，进而编写了一份计算机脚本，炮制出这句话的几百个变种，从“保持冷静、继续做梦”到“保持冷静、跳舞就好”，不一而足。理论上说，纯金炸弹有可能卖出几十亿件此类T恤，因为它们只有被人买下了才会变成“真的”。这种产品运用了“无限猴子定理”(infinite monkey theorem)：算法或早或晚总能做出一件让某人想买的T恤。
Amazon does not vet such items, and Solid Gold Bomb is too solid to care. The advent of 3D printing will create an explosion in such phantom products.
亚马逊不会去审查这类商品，而纯金炸弹那么纯，也不会去操心这些事。随着3D打印技术的兴起，这样的幽灵产品将大有作为。
Books got there first: Amazon brims with algorithmically produced “literature.” Philip M. Parker, a marketing professor, must be the most productive, erudite writer in history: Amazon lists him as author of more than 100,000 books. His secret? An algorithm to generate page-turners like “Webster’s Estonian to English Crossword Puzzles” and “The 2007-2012 Outlook for Premoistened Towelettes and Baby Wipes in Greater China” (“The moist towelette is an essential part of the lunchbox, and with the new global economy, this volume is essential,” reads its only review). Some of these books might be useful, but much of algorithmic literature exists for one reason: to swindle unsuspecting customers.
图书已经先行一步：亚马逊对算法生成的“文学”寄予厚望。营销学教授菲利普·M·帕克(Philip M. Parker)大概是史上最高产、博学的作者了：在亚马逊上可以买到十几万种署着他的大名的著作。想知道他的秘诀？用算法生成一本又一本令人不忍释卷的佳作，例如《韦氏爱沙尼亚-英语填字游戏》和《2007–2012年大中华地区湿毛巾与婴儿湿巾展望》（该商品的仅有一条评论是这样的：“湿巾是午餐盒中必备的物品，在新全球经济下，这是一本必读的著作。”）。这里面有些书可能还是有用的，但是算法文学多数时候只有一个目的：欺骗毫无防备的消费者。
When the former Wired editor Chris Anderson wrote of “the long tail” — the idea that, thanks to the Internet, companies can look beyond blockbusters and make money on obscure products — he never warned us it would be so long and so ugly. Somehow, well-crafted niche products have surrendered to algorithmic schlock.
前《连线》(Wired)杂志编辑克里斯·安德森(Chris Anderson)通过《长尾理论》告诉我们，有了互联网，企业可以不必死盯着大热门，生僻的产品一样可以赚钱。但他可没说这根尾巴可以这么长，这么难看。精心打造的小众产品败给了算法生成的廉价货色。
But while algorithms, 3D printers and Web stores have solved the supply problem, demand-side uncertainties remain. If there are, indeed, psychopaths who want a “Keep Calm and Rape a Lot” T-shirt, how do they find it? Or, rather, how does it find them? Whoever matches existing weirdos with nonexisting weird trinkets could be the next Google.
不过，算法、3D打印和网店虽然解决了供应问题，需求方的不确定性却依然存在。假设真有些神经病想买“保持冷静、继续强奸”T恤，他们上哪里去找？或者应该说，它怎么找着他们？谁要是有办法帮这些怪胎找到那些尚不存在的古怪小玩意，它就是下一个谷歌(Google)了。
Or could that dubious honor go to Google itself? Organizing the world’s information was just prelude to a far more important goal: becoming a universal shopping gateway. Last week’s news that it will introduce Shopping Express, a same-day delivery service to contend with Amazon, confirms the obvious: shopping is essential to Google’s future. By analyzing our information streams, it can predict what purchases make us happy, and remind us to keep shopping. It already underpins the Google’s most intriguing smartphone app, Field Trip.
或许这份邪恶的荣誉根本就属于谷歌自己呢？整理全世界的信息只是序曲，接下来的目标要重要的多，即成为全球购物活动的入口。上周传出消息说谷歌会推出Shopping Express，一个和亚马逊抗衡的当天送货到手服务，这再次强调了一个显而易见的事实：购物对谷歌的未来至关重要。通过分析我们的信息流，它可以推测出我们乐于购买什么，并提醒我们去买它。这些已经为谷歌的一款诱人的智能手机应用Field Trip打下了基础。
A future of frictionless, continuous shopping fits with Google’s vision for a world where we no longer need to search for anything, since we ourselves are perpetually monitored, with the relevant product or information sent to us based on perceived need. “Autonomous search,” they call it.
无障碍的、持续性的未来购物，与谷歌构想中的世界是相符的，在那个世界里，我们不再需要搜索什么，因为我们无时无刻不被监测着，根据观测到的需求，相关的产品或信息会主动送上门来。他们称之为“自动搜索。”
Ray Kurzweil, Google’s director of engineering, even wants to give us a “cybernetic friend” that could satisfy our wants before we are aware of them. By monitoring our conversations, e-mails and reading habits, he said, “it may pop up and say: ‘Well, you mentioned two weeks ago you were worried that vitamin B12 isn’t getting into your cells. There was new research just released two seconds ago that speaks to that.’”
谷歌工程总监雷·克兹威尔(Ray Kurzweil)甚至还想送我们一个“智能朋友”，随时满足我们的需求，甚至在我们还没有意识到那个需求之前。他说，这个朋友会监测我们的通话、电子邮件和阅读喜好，“然后跳出来说：‘你看，两周前你说你担心自己的身体无法吸收维生素B12。现在有一个新的研究，两秒前发布的，就是针对这个问题。”
To Mr. Kurzweil, who once confessed to taking 250 nutritional supplements a day, this might be a useful service. As for the rest of us, I’m not so sure: according to Google Scholar, 13,000 scientific papers and books that mention vitamin B12 came out last year alone.
像克兹威尔先生这种曾经声称每天要吃250种营养品的人，应该会觉得这是个有用的服务。但是我们这些人呢，我说不好：从谷歌学术搜索上看，提到维生素B12的科学论文和书籍仅去年一年就有1.3万种。
While Google promises to quell our information hunger, that hunger will only intensify once a few seemingly innocent factoids are thrown our way. The French philosopher Michel Serres is right: “Neither information nor a drug fix ever gives any happiness when you have it, but will make you miserable when you don’t.”
谷歌承诺会满足我们的信息饥渴，然而一旦遇上那些看似无害的讹误信息，我们的饥渴只会加剧。法国哲学家米歇尔·塞荷(Michel Serres)说的没错：“不管是信息还是一剂毒品，得到它们都不会给你带来分毫快乐，但是没有它们，会让你痛不欲生。”
Google’s “cybernetic friend” will turn us into anxious information machines, our neurosis curable only by endless consumption of its recommendations. Remember Clippy, Microsoft’s annoying office assistant? The “cybernetic friend” is just like that, only on steroids and with a second job as a pushy salesman. “Keep Calm and Buy Less”: now, that’s a T-shirt it’s unlikely to recommend.
谷歌的“智能朋友”会把我们变成一台台焦虑的信息机器，只有无止境地购买它推荐的东西，我们的神经症才有望治愈。还记得Clippy吗，那个烦人的微软Office助手？“智能朋友”是一样的，只是这次它打了鸡血，又找了份高声吆喝的推销员工作。“保持冷静、别买太多”：这样的T恤它大概是不会推荐的。