Elie Wiesel, an Auschwitz survivor who became an eloquent witness for the 6 million Jews slaughtered in World War II and who, more than anyone else, seared the memory of the Holocaust on the world’s conscience, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87.
奥斯维辛集中营(Auschwitz)的幸存者埃利·威塞尔(Elie Wiesel)是在“二战”中遭到屠杀的600万犹太人的雄辩见证者，他把大屠杀的记忆烙印在世人的良知里——他在这方面无人能及。周六，他在曼哈顿家中去世，享年87岁。
Menachem Rosensaft, a longtime friend and founding chairman of the International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors, confirmed the death.
他的老朋友、犹太大屠杀幸存者之子国际网络(Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors)的创始主席梅纳赫姆·罗森萨夫特(Menachem Rosensaft)证实了他的死讯。
Wiesel was the author of several dozen books and was a charismatic lecturer and humanities professor. In 1986, he was awarded the Nobel Prize. But he was defined not so much by the work he did as by the gaping void he filled.
威塞尔是数十本书的作者，也是一位充满魅力的演讲家和人文学科教授。1986年，他获得诺贝尔奖(Nobel Prize)。不过，他最大的贡献不是他的工作，而是他所填补的巨大空白。
In the aftermath of the Germans’ systematic massacre of Jews, no voice had emerged to drive home the enormity of what had happened and how it had changed mankind’s conception of itself and of God. For almost two decades, the traumatized survivors — and American Jews, guilt-ridden that they had not done more to rescue their brethren — seemed frozen in silence.
在日耳曼人对犹太人实施有计划的大屠杀之后，没有人发声，清楚讲述当时情况的严重性以及它如何改变了人类对自己和上帝的看法。在将近20年时间里，遭受创伤的幸存者——以及因为后悔没有更加尽力拯救同胞而深感愧疚的美裔犹太人——似乎都陷入沉默。
But by the sheer force of his personality and his gift for the haunting phrase, Wiesel, who had been liberated from Buchenwald as a 16-year-old with the indelible tattoo A-7713 on his arm, gradually exhumed the Holocaust from the burial ground of the history books.
不过，威塞尔纯粹凭借自己的个性以及让自己的话萦绕在人们心头的天赋，逐渐把大屠杀从历史书的坟墓中挖掘出来。他16岁时从布痕瓦尔德集中营(Buchenwald)获救，胳膊上烙着永远无法去除的A-7713编号。
It was this speaking out against forgetfulness and violence that the Nobel committee recognized when it awarded him the peace prize in 1986.
1986年，诺贝尔委员会为了表彰他挺身对抗遗忘和暴力的勇气，授予他和平奖。
“Wiesel is a messenger to mankind,” the Nobel citation said. “His message is one of peace, atonement and human dignity. His belief that the forces fighting evil in the world can be victorious is a hard-won belief.”
“威塞尔是人类的信使，”诺贝尔颁奖词说道。“他带来和平、赎罪和人类尊严的信息。他对于反抗邪恶的力量终将取得胜利的信念，是得之不易的信仰。”
Wiesel first gained attention in 1960 with the English translation of “Night,” his autobiographical account of the horrors he witnessed in the camps as a 15-year-old boy. He wrote of how he had been plagued by guilt for having survived while millions died, and tormented by doubts about a God who would allow such slaughter.
1960年，威塞尔的自传《夜》(Night)的英文版出版，从而首次引起了人们的注意。他在书中讲述了自己15岁时在集中营看到的恐怖情形。他提到自己深受内疚和怀疑的折磨——为自己幸存而其他数百万人死去感到内疚；对允许此类屠杀的上帝产生怀疑。
“Never shall I forget that night, the first night in camp, which has turned my life into one long night, seven times cursed and seven times sealed,” Wiesel wrote. “Never shall I forget that smoke. Never shall I forget the little faces of the children, whose bodies I saw turned into wreaths of smoke beneath a silent blue sky. Never shall I forget those flames which consumed my faith forever. Never shall I forget the nocturnal silence which deprived me, for all eternity, of the desire to live. Never shall I forget those moments which murdered my God and my soul and turned my dreams to dust. Never shall I forget these things, even if I am condemned to live as long as God himself. Never.”
“我永远不会忘记那个夜晚，在集中营的第一晚，我的人生从此变成漫长的黑夜，受尽折磨，”威塞尔写道，“我永远不会忘记那里的烟。我永远不会忘记孩子们幼小的脸庞，我看着他们的身体在安静的蓝天下化成烟圈。我永远不会忘记那些永远吞噬我信仰的火焰。我永远不会忘记让我永世失去生存欲望的夜晚的沉默。我永远不会忘记那些毁灭我的上帝和灵魂、把我的梦想碾碎的时刻。我永远不会忘记这些事情，即使我不得不和上帝活得一样长。我永远不会忘记。”
There may have been better chroniclers who evoked the hellish minutiae of the German death machine. There were arguably more illuminating philosophers. But no single figure was able to combine Wiesel’s moral urgency with his magnetism, which emanated from his deeply lined face and eyes as unrelievable melancholy.
也许还有更好的记录者生动描述了德国死亡机器地狱般的细节。肯定也有些哲学家更具启发性。但没有一个人能像威塞尔那样把道德上的迫切性与个人的吸引力结合在一起，后者体现在他布满深刻皱纹的脸庞上和永远忧郁的眼睛里。
President Barack Obama, who visited the site of the Buchenwald concentration camp with Wiesel in 2009, called him a “living memorial.”
2009年，巴拉克·奥巴马总统(Barack Obama)和威塞尔一起参观布痕瓦尔德集中营遗址，称他为“活着的纪念碑”。
“He raised his voice, not just against anti-Semitism, but against hatred, bigotry and intolerance in all its forms,” the president said Saturday in a statement. “He implored each of us, as nations and as human beings, to do the same, to see ourselves in each other and to make real that pledge of ‘never again.'”
“他大声疾呼，不仅反对反犹太主义，而且反对各种形式的仇恨、偏执和不宽容，”奥巴马总统周六在一项声明中说，“他恳求我们每个人——每个民族和所有人类——做同样的事，以彼此为鉴，真正做到‘永不再犯’。”
In his 1966 book “The Jews of Silence: A Personal Report on Soviet Jewry,” Wiesel called attention to Jews who were being persecuted for their religion and yet barred from emigrating.
在他1966年的书《沉默的犹太人：关于苏联犹太人的个人报告》(The Jews of Silence: A Personal Report on Soviet Jewry)中，威塞尔提醒世人，仍有犹太人因为宗教原因遭到迫害，而且被阻止移民。
“What torments me most is not the Jews of silence I met in Russia, but the silence of the Jews I live among today,” he said. His efforts helped ease emigration restrictions.
“最令我痛苦的不是我在俄罗斯见到的沉默的犹太人，而是现在我周围犹太人的沉默，”他说。他的努力帮助放宽了移民限制。
Wiesel condemned the massacres in Bosnia in the mid-1990s — “If this is Auschwitz again, we must mobilize the whole world,” he said — and denounced others in Cambodia, Rwanda and the Darfur region of Sudan. He condemned the burnings of black churches in the United States and spoke out on behalf of the blacks of South Africa and the tortured political prisoners of Latin America.
威塞尔谴责20世纪90年代中期波斯尼亚的大屠杀——他说，“如果这是又一个奥斯维辛，那么我们必须动员全世界”——他也谴责柬埔寨、卢旺达以及苏丹达尔富尔地区的其他一些人。他谴责美国的焚烧黑人教堂事件，挺身支持南非的黑人以及遭受酷刑的拉美政治犯。
Wiesel had a leading role in the creation of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, serving as chairman of the commission that united rival survivor groups to raise funds for a permanent structure.
威塞尔在华盛顿的美国大屠杀纪念馆(U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum)的建立中发挥了主导作用。作为主席，他领导该纪念馆的委员会把相互对立的幸存者组织团结起来，为建造一个永久性建筑筹集资金。
Eliezer Wiesel was born on Sept. 30, 1928, in the small city of Sighet, in the Carpathian Mountains in what was then Romania. His father, Shlomo, was a Yiddish-speaking shopkeeper worldly enough to encourage his son to learn modern Hebrew and introduce him to the works of Freud. His mother, the former Sarah Feig, and his maternal grandfather, Dodye Feig, a Viznitz Hasid, filled his imagination with mystical tales of Hasidic masters.
埃利泽·威塞尔(Eliezer Wiesel)1928年9月30日出生于当时属于罗马尼亚的喀尔巴阡山脉小城锡盖特(Sighet)。他的父亲什洛莫(Shlomo)是一名讲意第绪语的店主，他比较开明，鼓励儿子学习现代希伯来语，允许他阅读弗洛伊德(Freud)的作品。他的母亲萨拉·法伊格（Sarah Feig，原名）以及身为维兹尼茨哈西德派(Viznitz Hasid)的外祖父道戴·法伊格(Dodye Feig)用哈西德派大师的神话故事填充他的想像力。
He grew up with his three sisters, Hilda, Batya and Tzipora, in a community of 15,000 Jews. But his idyllic childhood was shattered in spring 1944 when the Nazis marched into Hungary. The city’s Jews were swiftly confined to two ghettos and then assembled for deportation.
他和三个姐妹希尔达(Hilda)、巴蒂亚(Batya)和茨波拉(Tzipora)在一个有1.5万名犹太人的社区长大。不过，1944年春，纳粹攻入匈牙利后，他田园诗般的童年崩溃了。这座城市的犹太人很快被封闭在两个犹太社区里，然后遭到集中驱逐。
“One by one, they passed in front of me,” he wrote in “Night,” “teachers, friends, others, all those I had been afraid of, all those I could have laughed at, all those I had lived with over the years. They went by, fallen, dragging their packs, dragging their lives, deserting their homes, the years of their childhood, cringing like beaten dogs.”
“他们一个一个在我面前走过，”他在《夜》中写道，“老师，朋友，还有其他人，所有我害怕过的人，所有我可能嘲笑过的人，所有这些年和我一起生活过的人。他们失魂落魄地走过去，拖着自己的包裹，拖着自己的人生，告别家园和童年，像遭到毒打的狗一样蜷缩着。”
“Night” recounted a journey of several days spent in an airless cattle car before the narrator and his family arrived in a place they had never heard of: Auschwitz. Wiesel recalled how the smokestacks filled the air with the stench of burning flesh, how babies were burned in a pit, and how a monocled Dr. Josef Mengele decided, with a wave of a bandleader’s baton, who would live and who would die. Wiesel watched his mother and his sister Tzipora walk off to the right.
《夜》讲述了他和家人在一个密不透风的运畜车上度过几天旅程，之后到达一个他们从没听说过的地方：奥斯维辛。威塞尔回忆起燃烧尸体的恶臭通过烟囱弥漫到空气中；婴儿们被放在坑里焚烧；戴着单片眼镜的约瑟夫·门格尔医生(Dr. Josef Mengele)挥动乐队指挥棒，决定生死。威塞尔看着妈妈和妹妹茨波拉走向了右边。
“I did not know that in that place, at that moment, I was parting from my mother and Tzipora forever,” he wrote.
“当时我并不知道就在那个地方，我和妈妈以及茨波拉永别了，”他写道。
On April 11, 1945, after eating nothing for six days, Wiesel was among those liberated by the U.S. Army. Only after the war did he learn that his two elder sisters had not perished.
1945年4月11日，6天没有进食的威塞尔等人得到美军解救。战争结束后，他才知道两个姐姐没有死去。
In the days after Buchenwald’s liberation, he decided he had survived to bear witness, but vowed that he would not speak or write of what he had seen for 10 years.
在布痕瓦尔德集中营解放之后的日子里，他认为自己活下来是为了作证，但他发誓在10年内不谈论或写作自己看到的事情。
“I didn’t want to use the wrong words,” he once explained.
“我不想用错词，”他曾经这样解释。
In 1948, the newspaper L’Arche sent him to Israel to report on that newly founded state. He became the Paris correspondent for the daily Yediot Ahronot as well. In 1956 he produced an 800-page memoir in Yiddish. Pared to 127 pages and translated into French, it then appeared as “La Nuit.”
1948年，《方舟》报(L’Arche)派他去以色列报道那个新成立的国家。他也成为《新消息报》(Yediot Ahronot)的驻巴黎记者。1956年，他用意第绪语写了800页的回忆录。最后缩减为127页，翻译成法语，以《夜》的标题出版。
“The Holocaust was not something people wanted to know about in those days,” Wiesel told Time magazine in 1985.
“那时候，人们不想知道犹太大屠杀的事，”威塞尔1985年对《时代》杂志(Time)说。
“Night” went on to sell more than 10 million copies. Wiesel wrote an average of a book a year, 60 books by his own count in 2015.
《夜》共销售了1000多万册。威塞尔平均每年写一本书，按他自己的计算，到2015年共写了60本书。
Many of his books were translated from French by his Vienna-born wife, Marion Erster Rose. They married in Jerusalem in 1969, when Wiesel was 40, and they had one son, Shlomo Elisha. They survive him.
他的很多书都是维也纳出生的妻子玛丽昂·厄斯特·罗斯(Marion Erster Rose)从法语翻成英语的。他们1969年在耶路撒冷结婚，当时威塞尔40岁，他们有个儿子，名叫什洛莫·埃利沙(Shlomo Elisha)。他的妻子和儿子依然健在。