THE passage of time is perhaps not so acute to the centuries-old alien at the heart of the BBC’s “Doctor Who,” the shape-shifting hero known simply as the Doctor, who has had more than 50 years of adventures across dimensions known and otherwise.
对于一个几百岁的外星人来说，时光的流逝或许不算什么——他是BBC《神秘博士》(Doctor Who)中的核心人物，会改变外型的主角，人们只知道他叫“博士”，在已知或未知的时空里已经做了50多年的冒险。
But time and its measurement have become especially crucial to Peter Capaldi, who will make his proper, full-length debut as the latest actor to play the Doctor when the new season of “Doctor Who” has its premiere Saturday on BBC America.
但是对于彼得·卡帕尔蒂(Peter Capaldi)来说，时间与时间的度量却显得分外残酷。周六（8月23日——译注）BBC美国即将播出《神秘博士》新一季第一集，作为最新一任博士的饰演者，他将在这一集中真正完整地首次亮相。
It has been just over a year since the BBC announced that Mr. Capaldi would succeed Matt Smith, who was a 26-year-old relative novice when he was chosen to play the Doctor, and, after three seasons of putting his frantic, whirling-dervish stamp on the character, disclosed his departure in June 2013.
一年前，BBC宣布由卡帕尔蒂接任马特·史密斯(Matt Smith)饰演博士，后者最初被选为博士的饰演者时只有26岁，算是新手，三季之后，他给这个角色打上了自己的印记：一个旋转起舞的疯狂托钵僧。2013年6月，他正式宣布离开剧组。
Since then, Mr. Capaldi, 56, has spent several months filming “Doctor Who” in Cardiff, Wales, trying to bring to the role his own personal take, which he says is more sardonic and elusive.
之后，56岁的卡帕尔蒂在威尔士的卡迪夫拍了几个月的《神秘博士》，试图为这个角色赋予自己的个人特点——冷嘲热讽，难以捉摸。
Still, as a lifelong “Doctor Who” fan, he could not quite contain his giddiness, all this time later, that he had actually landed the part.
不过，作为《神秘博士》的长期粉丝，过了这么久，竟然还有机会饰演这个角色，他也不免难掩兴奋之情。
“I just didn’t think that they would be going in this direction,” Mr. Capaldi said in a gentle, stately voice with only traces of a Scottish accent, on a visit to New York last week. Asked what he meant, he answered with a laugh: “Well, I guess, older. And more like me.”
“我本来没觉得他们会往这个方向走，”卡帕尔蒂上周来纽约时接受了采访，他的声音温和镇静，只带着一点点苏格兰口音。这话是什么意思？他笑着回答：“啊，我想，是选择更老，更像我这样的人。”
Mr. Capaldi’s penetrating eyes and expressively lined face will be familiar to viewers of Armando Iannucci’s 2009 film satire “In the Loop,” and the BBC comedy that spawned it, “The Thick of It,” in which he played Malcolm Tucker, a short-tempered political aide who fired off obscene insults as fluidly and creatively as Shakespeare composed sonnets.
卡帕尔蒂有着敏锐的双眼，面部轮廓鲜明，富于表情。人们是在阿尔曼多·伊安努奇(Armando Iannucci)2009年的讽刺电影《灵通人士》(In the Loop)中熟悉他的，后来BBC又为它拍了衍生喜剧《幕后危机》(The Thick of It)，他在其中饰演脾气暴躁的政客助手马尔科姆·塔克(Malcolm Tucker)，总是接二连三地说黄段子，就像莎士比亚写十四行诗那样既流畅又有创意。
But he is still untested as the Doctor, particularly with American audiences who responded strongly to Mr. Smith: BBC America said the series grew from an average total viewership of 910,000 in his first season to nearly 1.9 million in his last, a trend the channel would surely like to see continue under his successor.
但是作为博士，他还没有接受检验，特别是美国观众非常喜欢史密斯：BBC美国说，史密斯最初参演的那一季，平均收视人数是91万人，到他参演的最后一季已经增长到190万人，电视台当然希望继任者能够保持这个势头。
Though Mr. Capaldi is among the more accomplished actors to take on this storied science-fiction franchise, he is hardly a relic. But his age nonetheless represents a departure from the recent history of the series.
在这部传奇科幻系列剧中，卡帕尔蒂属于更加成熟的那批演员，但他并不是一个老古董。不过他的年龄表明这部剧开始偏离近年来的走向。
It is one more unknown factor for producers and audiences alike to consider as “Doctor Who” begins a crucial transition that elicited passionate criticisms and defenses before Mr. Capaldi set foot in front of the cameras.
此时正值制作人和观众们都认为《神秘博士》处于关键转折之际，卡帕尔蒂出镜之前就已经有了很多激烈的批评和争论，他的出现更是增添了一个未知的的因素。
“When launching a new Doctor, I don’t want to make it sound as though he’s just one of a set of options,” said Steven Moffat, the executive producer and lead writer of “Doctor Who.” “He’s the one and only right now.”
“更换新博士的时候，我不希望让人们觉得他是众多选择中的一个，”《神秘博士》的执行制片人和主要编剧史蒂文·莫法特(Steven Moffat)说。“现在他就是唯一的。”
Mr. Capaldi is playing the 12th canonical version of the Doctor, though the show cheekily acknowledges its counting system has run off track a bit.
卡帕尔蒂是第12个官方版本的博士，尽管这部剧顽皮地承认，它的计数系统出过点问题。
Born and raised in Glasgow, Mr. Capaldi grew up admiring character actors like Peter Cushing and John Hurt, and was a follower of “Doctor Who” more or less from the start.
卡帕尔蒂出生于格拉斯哥，并在那里长大，从小就喜欢彼得·库辛(Peter Cushing)和约翰·赫特(John Hurt)等演员，差不多从《神秘博士》刚开播就喜欢上了它。
Between the 1960s and 1980s, he watched the series transfer its lead role from elder statesmen like William Hartnell to expressive wits like Tom Baker, and, in its 21st-century revival, heartthrobs like Mr. Smith and David Tennant. (Mr. Capaldi also appeared in a 2008 “Doctor Who” episode playing a Roman in ancient Pompeii.)
从20世纪60年代到80年代，他一直都看着这部剧不断更换主演，从威廉·哈特奈尔(William Hartnell)那种年长政治家形象，到汤姆·贝克(Tom Baker)那种表情丰富的聪明人形象。这部剧在21世纪复活后，又有了史密斯和大卫·田纳特(David Tennant)这种万人迷（卡帕尔蒂也曾在2008年《神秘博士》的某集中亮相，饰演一个庞贝城的古罗马人）。
As a steadily employed actor, Mr. Capaldi said, he’d fallen into a routine of “increasingly bland parts, turning up in episodic television as the slightly untrustworthy doctor or shrink, or the M.P. with a gay secret.”
卡帕尔蒂说，作为一个稳定的职业演员，他一度陷入一种固定的模式——“日益平淡的角色，在电视剧中饰演不靠谱的医生或心理医生，要不就是没出柜的同性恋议员。”
“That was fine,” he said, “but quite dull.”
“倒是还好，”他说，“就是很枯燥。”
That changed in 2005 when Mr. Capaldi met Mr. Iannucci, creator of “The Thick of It,” on a day when Mr. Capaldi had come from another demeaning BBC audition and was not in a particularly good mood. “I was like, ‘O.K., show me what you’ve got,’ ” Mr. Capaldi recalled. “It was lucky I had just the right attitude at that moment.”
2005年，改变降临了，卡帕尔蒂遇到了《幕后危机》的主创伊安努奇。那天卡帕尔蒂刚刚结束一个有失自己身份的BBC试镜，心情不太好。“我说，‘行吧，有什么角色你先给我看看吧’，”卡帕尔蒂回忆，“很幸运，我当时的态度正好适合这个角色。”
Mr. Iannucci, the creator and show runner of HBO’s “Veep,” said he recalled Mr. Capaldi as initially “very amiable and softly spoken.”
伊安努奇如今是HBO台《二当家》(Veep)的主创和制片，他记得卡帕尔蒂一开始就“和蔼可亲，轻声细语”。
“When the switch came,” Mr. Iannucci said, “from this personable charmer to this rather ruthless and cold, frighteningly still person, I thought, ‘My God, that’s quite a trick you can pull off there.’ ”
“当他突然从风度翩翩的迷人男子变成那个冷酷无情、镇静得可怕的家伙时，” 伊安努奇说，“我想，‘天哪，这可真像变魔术一样。’”
Mr. Moffat said that the casting of Mr. Smith and Mr. Tennant on “Doctor Who” had not been a deliberate search for youthful demographics. “When people are trying to be cynical about modern ‘Doctor Who,’ they say, ‘Oh, they always cast these young fellows,’ ” he said. “We didn’t. It was always a young bloke who turns out to be right for it.”
莫法特说，当初选择史密斯和田纳特来出演《神秘博士》时，他们并不是故意要选择年轻演员。“人们嘲讽新版《神秘博士》时总是说，‘啊，他们总挑那些年轻小伙子’，”他说。“我们不是这样的，只不过最后胜任这个角色的总是年轻人罢了。”
Mr. Moffat said he and his colleagues quickly thought of Mr. Capaldi, for reasons he could not entirely quantify.
莫法特说，他和同事们选角时很快就想到了卡帕尔蒂，个中原因他自己也不能完全确定。
“He just felt incredibly right,” Mr. Moffat said. “He would just take the part in such an unexpected, different direction and overturn everybody’s preconceptions.”
“他就是让人觉得非常合适，”莫法特说。“他会把这个角色带向令人意想不到的不同方向，推翻所有人的先入之见。”
At an audition at which the “Doctor Who” producers say Mr. Capaldi was the only candidate, he said he performed a test scene in which he had to ask another character to describe his new incarnation.
在《神秘博士》的一次试镜中，制作人们说卡帕尔蒂是唯一的人选，卡帕尔蒂说，他当时试演的情景是：博士不得不问另外一个角色，自己的新化身看上去是什么样子。
“The Doctor doesn’t have a mirror, so he has no idea he’s gotten older,” Mr. Capaldi said. “So he keeps asking her about his face. ‘Does it look good?’ ”
“博士没有镜子，所以不知道自己变老了，”卡帕尔蒂说，“所以一直问她，自己的脸怎么样。‘好看吗？’”
The answer he received was, “Well, it’s O.K.”
他得到的回答是：“这个，还行吧。”
Mr. Capaldi was quickly offered the role and introduced in a live special last summer. But just as rapidly, some die-hard “Doctor Who” fans and casual viewers alike pushed back against the decision, disappointed that a role with seemingly so few boundaries had once again been given to a white male actor.
之后卡帕尔蒂很快得到了博士这个角色，并于去年夏天在一个现场秀上正式亮相。但是很快，一些《神秘博士》的死忠粉丝和随便看看的观众就开始反对这个决定，他们感到失望，因为这个角色的设定本身没有什么限制，但却又一次由白人男性演员饰演。
“I do think it’s well overtime to have a female Doctor Who,” Helen Mirren told the British morning show “Daybreak,” before the announcement. “I think a gay, black female Doctor Who would be best of all.”
“我觉得早就应该有女神秘博士了，”在选角宣布之前，海伦·米伦(Helen Mirren)在英国早间节目《黎明》(Daybreak)上说，“我觉得最好让神秘博士变成一个同性恋女黑人。”
Asked about an audience’s desire for more diversity in the lead role, Mr. Moffat said: “I just cast on instinct, really. There’s nothing against that, and we have auditioned every shape and size and type of human being for this part the last time around.”
被问到观众们对主角多样化的呼声时，莫法特说：“我其实只是凭本能选角。我们不反对多样化，上一次为这个角色试镜时，我们考虑过各种身材、体态和类型的人类。”
He added that Mr. Capaldi “looks like a Doctor Who,” and could have played the character at previous ages. “He’d have been a great 20-something Doctor and a great 30-something Doctor,” he said.
他还说，卡帕尔蒂“看上去就很像神秘博士”，而且他年轻时也可以饰演这个角色。“如果他年轻时演20多岁的博士，30多岁的博士，也会很棒的，”他说。
Yet Mr. Capaldi’s age does not go unnoticed in his premiere.
然而在卡帕尔蒂的第一集里，他的年龄并没有被忽视。
Jenna Coleman, who plays the Doctor’s adventuring companion, Clara Oswald, said that some of their very first scenes together required her to comment on how different he looked from his predecessors.
珍娜·科尔曼(Jenna Coleman)在剧中饰演博士的冒险伙伴克拉拉·奥斯瓦德(Clara Oswald)，她说两人的头几场戏里，她得对他与前任们外貌上的不同之处进行评论。
“My lines were like: ‘But he’s so old! Why is he gray? Why has he got lines on his face?’ ” Ms. Coleman said. “I didn’t know him at all at this point. In between takes, I was like: ‘Oh, Peter, I’m so sorry. Terribly sorry. You look great.’ ”
“我的台词是这样的：‘但是他这么老！他头发怎么花白了？他脸上怎么还有皱纹？’”科尔曼说。“当时我和他还不熟，拍戏间隙我赶紧说：‘啊，彼得，真对不起，太抱歉了。你很帅。’”
Mr. Capaldi approached all the kidding about his age as if it were a form of hazing.
卡帕尔蒂觉得那些关于自己年龄的嘲笑是一种侮辱。
“Sometimes, I get a bit annoyed with it,” he said. “I don’t think I’m old. I’m 56. Maybe people think that’s ancient. I’m not an old man.”
“有时候我很烦这些东西，”他说。“我不觉得自己很老。我56岁，也许人们觉得这就是老古董了。但我不是一个老人。”
Mr. Iannucci said that the humor was probably intended more for younger viewers “now getting a Doctor who’s a little bit older than they’re used to.”
伊安努奇说，这种幽默或许更像是为年轻观众准备的，“现在来了一个新博士，他比过去老了一点。”
On “The Thick of It,” Mr. Iannucci said, “every member of the cast had to get used to some insult made about them, usually from Peter Capaldi. It’s about time he had jokes about his own physical appearance.”
伊安努奇说，在《幕后危机》里，“所有演员都得习惯某些关于他们的侮辱，通常这些侮辱都是来自彼得·卡帕尔蒂。现在他得拿自己的外貌来开玩笑了。”
Mr. Capaldi said he had consulted “Doctor Who” forerunners like Mr. Smith. Now, he spoke about his continuing work on the series with a mixture of trepidation and the kind of certainty that only comes with seasoned experience.
卡帕尔蒂说，他咨询过史密斯等《神秘博士》前任表演者们的意见。如今，谈起自己今后在这部剧中的工作时，他仍然有些不安，但也带着一种只能由多年经验赋予的胸有成竹。