ZHUHAI, China — Queen Bee anti-tank rocket system. Halberd supersonic target drone. Sky Dragon 12 surface-to-air missile system.
中国珠海——“蜂王”反坦克火箭系统、Halberd超音速靶机、天龙12型地对空导弹系统。
Those were among the many weapons on display in the past week at Airshow China here in this southern city adjacent to Macau, and exhibitors included an array of new and established manufacturers as China expands its arms industry to bolster its military as well as exports.
这些正是过去一周，在中国国际航空航天博览会(Airshow China)上展出的众多武器中的一部分。在毗邻澳门的珠海，随着中国为增强军力并刺激出口而扩大军工业，此次航展的参展商中包括了一系列新兴和老牌制造商。
China is the world’s fourth-largest exporter of arms, having overtaken France last year, according to data from the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Ten large state-owned defense manufacturers dominate the sector, but the government is encouraging smaller, private companies to enter the field.
斯德哥尔摩国际和平研究所(Stockholm International Peace Research Institute)的数据显示，中国已于去年超过法国，成为世界第四大武器出口国。在中国国内，十家大型的国有国防企业占据着市场的主导地位，但政府也在鼓励私有的小企业进入该领域。
“The Chinese authorities have been encouraging nonstate firms to take part in the defense business in order to encourage competition and innovation in a policy known as civil-military integration,” said Tai Ming Cheung, director of the Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation, at the University of California, San Diego.
“中国当局一直在通过名为军民融合的政策，鼓励非国有企业进入国防产业，从而鼓励竞争和创新，”加州大学圣迭戈分校(University of California, San Diego)全球冲突与合作研究所(Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation)所长张太铭（Tai Ming Cheung，音译）说。
One of the new entrants is the Xi’an Tianhe Defense Technology Company, founded in 2010. The company focuses on civilian and defense electronics, including continuous-wave radar systems and advanced ocean communication. “Our boss is just a businessman,” as opposed to a former People’s Liberation Army officer, said Guo Yamei, a saleswoman.
其中一个新角色是成立于2010年的西安天和防务技术股份有限公司。该公司主攻民用和军用电子技术，包括连续波雷达系统和先进的海洋通讯技术。该公司的销售人员郭亚梅（音译）说，“我们老板只是个生意人”，并非解放军的前军官。
Tianhe’s president, He Zenglin, escorted an entourage of Myanmar military officials by the displays of radar systems for regional air defense. “We came here to introduce our company,” Ms. Guo said.
在用于区域性防空的雷达系统展品旁边，天和防务的董事长贺增林正在陪同一群缅甸军官。“来这里是为了介绍我们公司，”郭亚梅说。
From 2009 to 2013, China’s top arms customers were Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar, according to the institute’s data. In that period, China’s share of the global arms trade jumped to 6 percent from 2 percent, while the total international arms market grew 14 percent. China is a leading supplier of major arms to sub-Saharan Africa, a relatively small but growing market.
来自该研究所的数据显示，从2009年到2013年，中国武器最主要的买家是巴基斯坦、孟加拉国和缅甸。同一时期，中国制造的武器在全球武器贸易中所占的份额从2%增加到了6%，而国际武器市场的总规模也扩大了14%。在规模相对较小但持续增长的撒哈拉以南非洲市场，中国是常规武器的主要供应国。
Chinese arms makers, whose products are in competition with low-cost Russian equipment in many categories, want to move up the value chain.
中国武器制造商生产的许多类别的产品，都与低成本的俄罗斯装备构成了竞争。这些制造商希望向价值链的上方移动。
In the past, because the Chinese military was unwilling to export advanced technology, Mr. Cheung said, the Chinese arms industry could offer only products with aging designs, which few countries wanted. An improvement in the offerings and a willingness by China to sell up-to-date products like those on display at the air show have led to the increase in arms sales.
张太铭说，过去，因为中国军方不愿出口先进技术，中国国防工业只会提供设计过时的产品，几乎没有国家想要。产品的改进，加上中国愿意出售最新产品，如此次航展上展出的那些产品，促使武器销售出现了增加。
Making its debut as an exhibitor at the air show, Armor China displayed a poster of Hu Jintao, who was the country’s president from 2003 to 2013, riding in a black armored vehicle in front of line of saluting soldiers in Tiananmen Square. “Proudly Produced Vehicle Armor for President of China,” it read.
在此次航展上，首次参展的浙江美盾防护技术有限公司(Armor China)展示了一张海报。海报上是曾在2003年至2013年期间担任中国国家主席的胡锦涛，在天安门广场乘坐一辆带装甲的黑色汽车，检阅一排敬礼的士兵。海报上写着“为国家主席生产座驾装甲是我们的骄傲”。
Armor China, reaching beyond its origins as a parts supplier, began selling a microdrone this year that has a range of up to seven miles and can be used for military or police surveillance, as well as for forestry and agriculture. Because the microdrone has civilian uses, the $20,000 price was publicly advertised.
从最初的一家零部件供应商发展到现在的浙江美盾，今年开始销售一款微型无人机。该款设备的航程最远可达7英里（约合11公里），可用于军方或警方的监控，还可用于林业和农业。因为可用作民用，该公司以2万美元（约合12万元人民币）的价格公开推销这款微型无人机。
“All the technology is designed in China,” said Charles Cao, managing director of Armor China. “It’s cheaper to manufacturer in China because a lot of the suppliers are here.”
“所有技术都是在中国研发的，”浙江美盾董事长曹元说。“在中国制造比较便宜，因为很多供应商都在中国。”
Drones, which combine aerodynamics and remote-sensing technology, are a fairly new product area, and Chinese companies are near the leading technological edge instead of playing catch-up, as they do in other fields of aviation, experts say.
结合空气动力学和遥感技术制造的无人机是一个相当新的产品门类。专家称，中国公司在无人机方面已经接近技术领先水平，而不是像在其他航空领域一样，追赶其他国家。
Norinco, the maker of the Queen Bee anti-tank rocket system, is one of China’s leading arms manufacturers. At the air show, a cavernous display hall was taken up almost entirely by the company. Potential customers — from Southeast Asia, sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East — wearing red V.I.P. lanyards paraded between the displays, accompanied by Norinco translators and sales staff members explaining equipment specifications.
制造“蜂王”反坦克火箭系统的中国兵器工业集团公司是中国主要的武器制造商之一。在此次航展中，该公司几乎占据整整一个宽阔的展示大厅。来自东南亚、撒哈拉以南非洲地区，以及中东的潜在客户戴着红色的VIP挂带，在各个展区间穿梭，该公司的翻译和销售人员相伴左右，介绍装备的规格。
Like other Chinese arms makers, Norinco benefits from economies of scale that allow it to offer competitive export prices.
与其他中国武器制造商一样，兵工集团也得益于规模效应，能够提供具有竞争力的出口价格。
“By mass-producing for its internal market, the People’s Liberation Army, Norinco is able to sell its wares on the global market by presenting itself as a cost-friendly alternative — basically the Walmart of ground defense systems for purchasers without a lot of expendable funds and uneager to meet all the political conditions required of a Germany, U.S. or United Kingdom,” said Daniel Darling, who analyzes international military markets at Forecast International, an American market research company.
美国市场研究公司预测国际(Forecast International)的国际武器市场分析师丹尼尔·达林(Daniel Darling)说，“由于兵工集团为国内市场，也就是解放军大量地生产武器，该公司能够在国际市场销售产品，成为一个价格低廉的替代选项，对于那些手上没有很多资金，而且不愿满足德国、美国或英国提出的政治条件的买家来说，这家公司基本上算是地面防御系统市场上的沃尔玛(Walmart)。”