When Stephen Elop takes on Microsoft’s challenges as the new head of its mobile computing business, he will find plenty of parallels from his three years running Nokia: both are established companies blindsided by new innovators and troubled almost as much by pride and internal fiefs as by technology shifts, according to former executives and company watchers.
当史蒂芬·埃洛普(Stephen Elop)重返微软(Microsoft)，成为其移动计算业务的新主管时，他会发现，他面临的挑战跟在诺基亚(Nokia)的三年里颇为相似：微软和诺基亚都是老牌公司，被新的创新者打了个猝不及防，根据前高管和关注该公司的外界人士的说法，它们的问题几乎一半来自骄傲自满和内耗，一半来自于技术潮流的变化。
What Mr. Elop’s Nokia experience doesn’t show is a history of engineering turnarounds that could be translated to Microsoft. Before Microsoft’s $7.2 billion purchase of Nokia’s devices and services business was announced late Monday, Nokia’s stock was off about 60 percent since Mr. Elop joined the company in September 2010.
埃洛普在诺基亚的经历，没有显示出可以移植到微软的，在工程领域转败为胜的经验。周一晚些时候，微软宣布斥资72亿美元收购诺基亚的设备和服务业务，在此之前，诺基亚的股价自埃洛普2010年9月进入该公司以来已经缩水了60％。
Mr. Elop made many tough choices, including major layoffs, selling office space and shedding pet technologies like an aging operating system for mobile devices. Those calls prevented an even worse outcome, and gave the Finnish company a badly needed sense of urgency, analysts said. But he failed to stop the company’s declining market share and he leaves — at best — a work in progress at Nokia.
埃洛普做过很多艰难的抉择，其中包括大规模裁员，出售办公空间，终结公司宠爱的技术，比如过时的移动设备操作系统。分析师称，这些做法避免了更糟糕的后果，并给这家芬兰公司带来了亟需的紧迫感。但埃洛普没能阻止该公司的市场份额不断下降，从最好的角度来说，他在诺基亚也是出师未捷。
As part of the Microsoft deal, Mr. Elop agreed to step down as Nokia’s chief executive and rejoin Microsoft when the deal closes, which is expected to happen in early 2014. He will lead an expanded devices team inside Microsoft, responsible for both hardware and Microsoft’s business in things like games and music.
作为微软交易的一个条件，埃洛普同意不再担任诺基亚的首席执行官，并在交易结束后（预计是2014年年初）再次进入微软。他将在微软内部领导一个扩大的设备团队，负责硬件和微软在游戏和音乐等领域的业务。
He also puts himself in the running to succeed Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, who last month announced he would be leaving within 12 months. “His hat is firmly in the ring, running a very important division for Microsoft’s future,” said Crawford Del Prete, an analyst at IDC who has known Mr. Elop for many years. “He could have just exited Nokia, but the fact that he’s there shows he is a very ambitious guy.”
这样一来，他也进入了角逐成为微软首席执行官史蒂芬·鲍尔默(Steven A. Ballmer)继任者的赛场。上个月，鲍尔默宣布将在12个月内离开公司。“埃洛普是一个有力的角逐者，他主管的这个部门对微软的未来发展非常重要，” IDC分析师克劳福德·德尔·普雷特(Crawford Del Prete)说，他认识埃洛普已经很多年。“他本来只要离开诺基亚就行了，但他的去向表明他是一个非常有野心的家伙。”
Mr. Elop, a 49 year-old Canadian, came to Nokia from Microsoft, where he ran the business division, a senior leadership job that includes Microsoft’s lucrative Office software. Before Microsoft, he ran the information systems of Juniper Networks, a computer networking company, and ran field operations for Adobe, which makes tools for digital content. He came into Adobe from another acquisition, when Adobe purchased a company he ran called Macromedia.
埃洛普是加拿大人，现年49岁，在进入诺基亚之前，他是微软商务部门的主管，这是一个高级领导岗位，业务包括微软利润丰厚的Office软件。进入微软之前，他在计算机网络公司瞻博网络(Juniper Networks)主管信息系统，并在数字内容工具企业Adobe公司负责过现场作业业务。而他进入Adobe也是拜一桩收购交易所赐：Adobe购买了他经营的Macromedia公司。
He is a father of five, including triplet girls and a daughter he adopted from China. He is close to his family, uprooting them for his first Microsoft job only at his son’s urging. But then Mr. Elop left his family in Washington while he relocated to Espoo, Finland, where Nokia is based.
埃洛普有五个孩子，其中包括三胞胎女儿和一个从中国领养的女儿。他跟家人关系紧密，完全是由于儿子的催促，他才为了微软的第一份工作举家搬迁。但后来他搬到诺基亚公司所在地芬兰埃斯波时，却把家人留在了华盛顿。
“It’s a beautiful place, but it’s very hard to be that far away from your family,” said Leslie Nakajima, a former Nokia executive who now runs communications for the Mozilla Foundation, makers of the Firefox browser. Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Elop declined to be interviewed.
“这是一个美丽的地方，但远离家人的感觉很艰辛。”莱斯利·纳卡吉玛(Leslie Nakajima)说，此人是诺基亚前高管，现在在开发火狐浏览器的Mozilla基金会负责通信部门。埃洛普通过一位发言人表示拒绝接受采访。
When Mr. Elop arrived at Nokia, it was still the world’s leading maker of mobile phones. But it had been struggling for years to match smartphone competitors. First, BlackBerry wooed business customers with phones that had an easy-to-use keyboard for typing out e-mails. Apple’s iPhone, which came out in June 2007, and Google’s Android operating system in October 2008, represented an even bigger challenge with smartphones that closely tied hardware, software and a wide variety of customer-pleasing applications.
埃洛普刚到诺基亚时，诺基亚仍是全球最大的移动电话生产商。但彼时，为了与智能手机领域的对手较量，诺基亚已苦苦挣扎多年。首先，黑莓(BlackBerry)利用有着便捷键盘的手机吸引了商业客户，这样的键盘可以发送电子邮件。此后，苹果(Apple)于2007年6月推出的iPhone，以及谷歌(Google)2008年10月推出的Android操作系统代表着来自智能手机领域的更大挑战。这些智能手机将硬件、软件和众多取悦顾客的应用紧密地联系在了一起。
Nokia had turned down an early chance to be Google’s partner in Android, partly because its purchase of a mapping company could have presented a conflict with Google Maps. That relationship went to Samsung, now the world’s biggest smartphone maker. Instead, Nokia’s strategy involved managing five different operating systems, and making scores of different phones for markets across the world.
早前，诺基亚曾有机会成为谷歌在Android操作系统领域的合作伙伴，但诺基亚拒绝了，这部分是因为它收购的一家地图公司当时可能会与谷歌地图(Google Maps)产生冲突。后来，三星(Samsung)与谷歌达成了合作关系，并最终成为了全世界最大的智能手机生产商。而诺基亚的战略则是管理五个不同的操作系统，为全球市场生产几十款不同的手机。
“A kind of arrogance had crept into the company, a feeling that they really understood exactly what consumers wanted,” said Mr. Del Prete. “That was a real problem when they were assaulted by BlackBerry and Apple.”
“有一种自大渗透进了诺基亚，他们以为自己真的清楚知道消费者想要什么，”德尔·普雷特说，“当他们遭到黑莓和苹果的袭击时，这是个实实在在的问题。”
Early in his tenure, Mr. Elop wrote an internal memo that compared Nokia to a man on a burning oil platform who is forced to jump into icy waters. Mr. Elop’s point: If the company didn’t make some drastic, risky decisions, it was doomed to fail. Mr. Elop’s “burning platform” memo recalls a similar missive written a few months earlier by Ray Ozzie, Microsoft’s chief software architect, as he left Microsoft. Mr. Ozzie wrote about a company in thrall to its past success, troubled by internal complexity and unable to react to fast-moving competitors, particularly in a world dominated by new mobile devices and services.
任职诺基亚初期，埃洛普写了一份内部备忘录，将诺基亚比作一个在着火的石油平台上的人，被迫要跳进冰冷的水里。埃洛普的观点是，如果不做出一些有风险的激进决策，公司注定死路一条。埃洛普这封提及“着火的平台”的备忘录让人想起了几个月前微软首席软件架构师雷·奥兹(Ray Ozzie)离开微软时写的一封类似的信。奥兹在信中表示，微软受制于昔日的成功，为错综复杂的内部关系所困，无力应对灵活迅捷的对手，尤其是在一个新型移动设备与服务占主导的世界里。
Mr. Elop could see that Nokia faced similar issues, but he may not have been prepared for the firestorm when he announced in February 2011 that the company would drop development on multiple operating systems, switch to Microsoft’s Windows Mobile operating system and lay off thousands of employees. Older-model Nokia phones were orphaned, and newer phones with Microsoft software did not arrive on the market for months.
埃洛普可能看到诺基亚面临着类似的问题，但在2011年2月宣布诺基亚将放弃开发多操作系统、转用微软的Windows Mobile操作系统并裁掉数千名员工时，他可能还没做好遭到强烈抗议的准备。老款的诺基亚手机成了孤儿，但使用微软操作系统的新手机却数月都没面市。
“People were already sore, because they felt like there would be a deal with Microsoft as soon as he came on,” said a former Nokia executive, who requested anonymity to maintain professional ties. “There was uncertainty, there was infighting, and the market share plummeted.”
“人们已经很恼火了，因为他们本以为埃洛普一来就会和微软达成协议，”诺基亚的一名前高管说，“诺基亚充满了不确定性，出现内讧，市场份额暴跌。”为了保持职业上的联系，这名高管要求不具名。
Mr. Elop was making a risky decision that still hasn’t paid off.
埃洛普在做一个冒险的决定，这个决定至今还没有带来回报。
“He had to do something,” said Mr. Del Prete. “Smartphones change so fast, and this was a company where workers expected to stay their whole lives.”
“他必须做点什么，”德尔·普雷特说，“智能手机领域的变化日新月异，而这是一家员工希望为之工作一辈子的公司。”
While the first models of Nokia phones running Microsoft software were expensive and failed to excite consumers, Mr. Del Prete added, “they are making progress. They are adding developers. It will take longer than people envision, and it will take the coffers of Microsoft.”
德尔·普雷特说，尽管第一批使用微软操作系统的诺基亚手机价格高昂，未能让消费者为之一振，但“他们正在进步，正在招募开发人员。花的时间会比人们预想的长，而且需要微软的资金援助。”