Hillary Clinton’s bout of pneumonia and the criticism of how little she and her opponent, Donald J. Trump, have made public about their medical histories thrust questions of transparency about health to the center of the presidential campaign this week, with both candidates promising to release more detailed records in the coming days.
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)突患肺炎，以及外界对她和她的对手唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)几乎未公开自己病史的指责，把有关健康透明的疑问推向了本周总统竞选的中心位置。两位候选人均承诺在未来几天公布更详细的记录。
While the public scrutiny of modern campaigns has made speculation about the health of presidential candidates more relentless, concerns about the fitness of candidates for office have long been a hallmark of American politics, with many hopefuls trying to conceal their maladies and opponents doing their best to exploit signs of weakness.
尽管公众对现代竞选的密切关注使有关总统候选人健康状况的猜测变得更加频繁，但长期以来，对候选人健康状况的担忧一直是美国政治的一大特点。不少有望成功的候选人努力隐瞒自己的疾病，对手则不遗余力地想要利用他们身体虚弱的迹象。
From brushing off gunshot wounds to working through paralysis, presidents, and those seeking the office, have been no strangers to challenging ailments. Here are a few of history’s most prominent examples.
从对枪伤轻描淡写到拖着瘫痪的身体工作，美国的总统和总统候选人对挑战疾病并不陌生。以下是史上最有名的一些例子。
William Henry Harrison
威廉·亨利·哈里森
The revelation that Mrs. Clinton had pneumonia instantly drew comparisons to William Henry Harrison, the ninth president, whose tenure was the shortest in the country’s history. Harrison died from pneumonia, according to his doctor, in 1841, a month after delivering a two-hour inaugural address on a blustery day.
克林顿被爆出患有肺炎后，立即有人将其和第九任总统威廉·亨利·哈里森(William Henry Harrison)进行比较。哈里森是美国历史上在任时间最短的总统。哈里森的医生称他死于肺炎，当时是1841年。在去世的一个月前，他在一个大风天发表了长达两个小时的就职演说。
Being underdressed in bad weather was blamed for causing an illness that quickly spiraled out of control. Doctors treated him with opium and other medications that proved to be useless.
在恶劣的天气下衣着单薄被指是哈里森患病的原因。很快，哈里森的病情失控。医生在治疗过程中使用了鸦片和其他药物，但事实证明，这些都没用。
Historians continue to debate the true cause of Harrison’s death, and some scholars have wondered whether his history of dyspepsia, rather than pneumonia, was really to blame. According to one theory, the White House’s lack of a proper sewage system may have contaminated its water supply with pathogens that poisoned the president.
历史学家仍在讨论哈里森的真正死因，一些学者怀疑，真正要怪的是否是他的消化不良病史，而不是肺炎。有一种理论是，大概因为白宫没有完善的下水道系统，因而供水中含有病原体，哈里森因此感染。
Theodore Roosevelt
西奥多·罗斯福
Mrs. Clinton’s campaign said that she had wanted to push through her pneumonia after it was diagnosed last Friday. For Douglas Brinkley, a Rice University historian, the urge to put politics before health echoed Theodore Roosevelt.
克林顿的竞选团队称，上周五确诊为肺炎后，克林顿本想撑过去。在莱斯大学(Rice University)历史学家道格拉斯·布林克利(Douglas Brinkley)看来，想把政治的重要性放在健康前面，这一点与西奥多·罗斯福(Theodore Roosevelt)颇为相似。
In 1912, Roosevelt, a former president, was running again with the Progressive “Bull Moose” Party when he was shot in the chest before he was to deliver a speech in Milwaukee. The manuscript of the speech, which was in his coat pocket, cushioned the blow and saved his life. Gritting through the pain, he delivered a shortened version of the speech anyway, declaring, “It takes more than that to kill a bull moose.”
1912年，身为前总统的罗斯福代表进步党，又名公鹿党，再次竞选总统。在密尔沃基，罗斯福在即将发表演讲时中弹。装在衣服口袋里的演讲稿减缓了子弹带来的冲击，救了他一命。他忍痛发表了演讲。虽然演讲被缩短了，罗斯福仍然表示“这不足以杀死一只公鹿”。
“He thought if he went to a hospital and seemed infirm, it would lower his chances of winning,” Mr. Brinkley said of Roosevelt, who ultimately lost the election.
“他认为如果去医院并表现出虚弱的样子，便会降低他获胜的可能性，”布林克利说到罗斯福时表示。最终，罗斯福在那一届选举中败北。
Woodrow Wilson
伍德罗·威尔逊
President Woodrow Wilson had a debilitating stroke in 1919, leaving him incapacitated and raising questions about who was really running the executive branch.
1919年，伍德罗·威尔逊总统(Woodrow Wilson)中风，身体虚弱。中风导致他失去行动能力，并引发了疑问，人们质疑到底是谁真正在领导政府。
Scholars such as Edwin A. Weinstein, a neuropsychiatrist, spent years studying Wilson’s old correspondence to determine that he had experienced smaller strokes dating back to 1898, which might have foreshadowed his health problems later in life.
包括神经精神病学家埃德温·A·韦恩施泰因(Edwin A. Weinstein)在内的学者，用了多年时间研究威尔逊的旧信件，并从中断定，他最早从1898年开始便经历了多次程度较轻的中风。这些中风可能已经预示了他晚年的健康问题。
Transparency was particularly problematic at the time, as Wilson’s wife, Edith, and his doctor allegedly orchestrated a cover-up to prevent the public from learning about his deteriorating condition.
当时，透明性尤其成问题，因为据说为了防止公众知道威尔逊的健康状况不断恶化，他的妻子伊迪丝(Edith)和医生精心策划，力图掩盖真相。
Franklin D. Roosevelt
富兰克林·D·罗斯福
Health was always something of a concern for Franklin D. Roosevelt, who was partly paralyzed and was vigilant about keeping his wheelchair hidden from the public. But it was when he sought his fourth term as president in 1944 that his opponents seized on his diminished strength and failing faculties in hopes of finally defeating him.
健康一直是让富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)担忧的一个问题。身体部分瘫痪的他十分警惕，尽量不让自己的轮椅出现在公众面前。但1944年，当他谋求第四个总统任期时，对手将其体力减弱，身体官能退化一事大肆加以利用，希望最终能打败他。
Documents in Roosevelt’s presidential library show how the “whispering campaign” of his rival Thomas E. Dewey tried to paint Roosevelt as a “tired old man,” and how Roosevelt campaigned more aggressively to demonstrate that he still had vigor. Privately, Roosevelt’s doctors had warned that he had high blood pressure and was at a high risk of heart failure.
罗斯福的总统图书馆里的文件显示，他的竞争对手托马斯·E·杜威(Thomas E. Dewey)试图将罗斯福描述成一个“疲倦的老头”，而罗斯福则加大竞选力度，以证明自己依然精力充沛。私下里，罗斯福的医生警告他有高血压，并且属于心力衰竭高危人群。
In April 1945, Roosevelt collapsed and died from a cerebral hemorrhage.
1945年4月，罗斯福因脑溢血而昏迷，随后去世。
John F. Kennedy
约翰·F·肯尼迪
In 1960, John F. Kennedy declared himself the “healthiest candidate for president in the country.” But despite his youthful good looks, Kennedy was battling a variety of ailments, including Addison’s disease, an autoimmune disorder that affects the adrenal glands.
1960年，约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)宣称自己是“我国最健康的总统候选人”。但当时，尽管外表年轻英俊，肯尼迪却在和一系列疾病作斗争，包括爱迪生氏症。这是一种自身免疫性疾病，会影响肾上腺。
Despite efforts by his family to hide the disorder, which can be life-threatening, pathologists who conducted his autopsy revealed in 1992 that Kennedy, who was assassinated at the age of 46, had been taking hormone replacement supplements to control the rare condition. Some suggested that he might have lost the 1960 election to Richard M. Nixon if the extent of his health problems had been known.
尽管他的家人努力想要掩盖这种可能会危及生命的疾病，曾对他进行尸检的病理学家在1992年透露，在46岁时遇刺身亡的肯尼迪一直在服用激素替代补充药物，以控制这种罕见的疾病。一些人表示，在1960年的选举中，如果外界知道他健康问题的严重程度，他大概会输给理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)。
A more extensive batch of medical records made public in 2002 showed that Kennedy also lived in considerable discomfort, taking painkillers, anti-anxiety agents, stimulants and sleeping pills. He was also hospitalized for back and intestinal problems and had osteoporosis.
2002年公开的一批更广泛的医疗记录显示，肯尼迪生前还感到极其不适，一直在服用止痛药、抗焦虑药物、兴奋剂和安眠药。他还因背部和肠道问题住过院，并患有骨质疏松症。
Ronald Reagan
罗纳德·里根
The oldest president ever to take office, Ronald Reagan endured an assassination attempt and the removal of cancerous polyps from his colon.
上任时年纪最大的总统罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)经历过一次刺杀未遂和癌变结肠息肉切除。
Some historians have blamed the colon surgery, in 1985, for poor decisions Reagan made related to the Iran-contra scandal while he was recuperating. Reagan transferred power briefly to Vice President George Bush, but rushed back to work.
一些历史学家认为，正是1985年那次结肠手术导致里根做出了和伊朗门丑闻有关的错误决定。那些决定正是他在手术恢复期间做出的。里根曾短暂地将权力移交给副总统乔治·布什(George Bush)，但很快又回归工作。
“Reagan made a serious mistake in taking back his powers and duties,” said Robert Gilbert, an emeritus professor of political science at Northeastern University and an expert on illness in the White House.
“里根收回权力和义务其实是犯了一个严重的错误，”东北大学(Northeastern University)政治学荣休教授、美国总统疾病问题专家罗伯特·吉尔伯特(Robert Gilbert)说。
According to Mr. Gilbert, Reagan’s aides prevented people from seeing him because he was unwell, and he made decisions while hospitalized that he later did not remember.
据吉尔伯特称，里根的助手不让外人见他，因为他感到不适，他在住院期间做出的决定，后来连他自己都不记得了。