“I think this fish has found her pond.”
“我认为这条鱼找到了她的池塘。”
That’s what Sonia Sotomayor told a friend after her first day in open court as a new federal judge back in 1992. She had been so terrified, she recalls in her new memoir, that her knees were literally knocking together as she began addressing the courtroom from the bench. And yet the minute she jumped in with a question for the litigants, the panic passed, and she realized she would be just fine.
这是1992年索尼娅·索托马约尔(Sonia Sotomayor)作为新任联邦法官第一天公开庭审之后对她的一个朋友说的话。她在新出版的回忆录中说，当她坐在法官席上开始对法庭讲话的时候，特别害怕，腿抖得膝盖都撞一块儿了。但是当她插入辩论给诉讼当事人提了一个问题之后，就不再恐慌了，她知道自己能做好。
More than fine, it turns out: from federal court for the Southern District of New York she would move on to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and in 2009 she was sworn in as an associate justice of the Supreme Court.
结果，她做得不只是好而已：从纽约南区联邦法院，升到了美国第二巡回上诉法院，2009年她宣誓就任最高法院大法官。
In nominating Judge Sotomayor to the highest court in the land, President Obama pointed out that her life story was the embodiment of the American dream. She grew up poor in a Bronx housing project at a time when gangs were carving up the neighborhood, learned she had juvenile diabetes when she was 7 and lost her father a couple of years later. She would go on to Princeton (where she won the prestigious Pyne Prize), Yale Law School, the Manhattan district attorney’s office and ultimately the Supreme Court, where she became the nation’s first Hispanic justice.
奥巴马总统提名索托马约尔法官在美国最高法院任职时指出，她的人生故事就是美国梦的代表。她出身贫寒，在布朗克斯（纽约市最北端的一个区——译注）的一个廉租房小区长大，当时黑帮正在瓜分那个社区；7岁的时候发现自己患有青少年糖尿病，几年之后父亲去世。之后她去了普林斯顿大学（她在那里获得了享有盛誉的派恩[Pyne]奖学金）、耶鲁大学法学院、曼哈顿地方检察院，最终到了最高法院，成为美国第一位西语裔大法官。
But if the outlines of Justice Sotomayor’s life are well known by now, her searching and emotionally intimate memoir, “My Beloved World,” nonetheless has the power to surprise and move the reader. Whereas the justice’s legal writings have been described by reporters as dry, methodical and technical, this account of her life is revealing, keenly observed and deeply felt.
尽管到现在索托马约尔法官的人生梗概已为人所熟知，但是她探索自己内心世界的回忆录《我挚爱的世界》(My Beloved World)还是拥有让读者惊叹、感动的力量。记者们描述这位法官所写的法律文本枯燥无味、条理清晰而专业，但她对自己人生的讲述则流露着真情，书中充满了细致的观察和深刻的感触。
The book sheds little new light on how she views issues that might come before the Supreme Court (aside from some candid talk about resistance she encountered, as a student, from critics of affirmative action), but it stands very much on its own — not unlike Barack Obama’s first book, “Dreams From My Father” — as a compelling and powerfully written memoir about identity and coming of age.
在这本书中，她没有更多地解释自己对可能会提交到最高法院的那些议题的看法（只是公正地谈论了她做学生时“平权法案”的批评者对她的抵制），但是这本回忆录自成一体，就像巴拉克·奥巴马的第一本传记《我父亲的梦想》(Dreams From My Father)一样，引人入胜、充满力量，讲述着身份认同和成长的故事。
Through evocative, plain-spoken prose Justice Sotomayor engages in an earnest, soul-searching look back at her childhood as the daughter of Puerto Rican parents and at her education and years as a lawyer. She provides a visceral sense of what it was like to grow up with a dysfunctional family, overshadowed by her alcoholic father’s unpredictable behavior, and what it was like to grow up in the Bronx in the 1960s and ’70s, in a neighborhood where stairwells were to be avoided (because of muggers and addicts shooting up), and where tourniquets and glassine packets littered the sidewalks.
索托马约尔法官通过坦率而引人共鸣的语句，以诚挚而反省的态度回顾了她身为波多黎各后裔所度过的童年、接受的教育，以及做律师的岁月。她描述的是自己成长的切身感受：家庭不温暖，酗酒的父亲行为变化无常，给家庭笼罩上一层阴影；在20世纪六七十年代的布朗克斯区，楼梯井要绕着走（因为走私者和瘾君子们经常在这里枪战），人行道上乱扔着止血带和玻璃纸包装袋。
The young Sonia’s best friend was her cousin Nelson, with whom she began childhood “almost as twins, inseparable and, in our own eyes, virtually identical” — except that “he was smarter” and “had the father I wished for.” Nelson would become a heroin addict and die of AIDS before his 30th birthday. Why, Justice Sotomayor wonders, did she manage to survive when Nelson failed, “consumed by the same dangers that had surrounded me?”
索尼娅年少时最好的朋友是她的表兄尼尔森(Nelson)，他们俩“跟双胞胎似的，形影不离，在我们自己看来，我们俩一模一样”，唯一的区别是“他更聪明”，“有个让我羡慕的父亲”。尼尔森后来吸食海洛因成瘾，在30岁生日前死于艾滋病。索托马约尔法官心想，“我们被同样的危险包围着”，为什么她生存了下来，而尼尔森没能做到。
The culture of machismo played a role, she writes, the “culture that pushes boys out onto the streets while protecting girls,” but her own force of will would prove crucial too.
她在书中写道，男子汉文化是其中一个原因，“这种文化保护女孩子，而把男孩子推到街上”，但是后来的事证明她自己的意志力也是一个重要原因。
That sense of discipline and perseverance stemmed partly from her determination to manage her diabetes (she started giving herself insulin shots at 7 because her parents seemed unable to deal with the procedure); partly from her awareness, as a child, of the precariousness of existence, slammed home by her father’s drinking and her mother’s angry response to his alcoholism (which took the form of working nights and weekends to avoid being at home). It was the love and protection of her grandmother Abuelita, says Justice Sotomayor, that gave her “a refuge from the chaos at home” and allowed her “to imagine the most improbable of possibilities for my life.”
她的自律和坚毅，部分源于她对控制自己的糖尿病的决心（她7岁开始给自己打胰岛素，因为她的父母似乎帮不上忙）；另外一个原因是，父亲的酗酒和母亲对他的愤怒（她表现的方式是晚上和周末加班，以免待在家里）让她自孩提时代就意识到生活的无常。索托马约尔法官说，是祖母阿布丽塔(Abuelita)对她的爱护，让她在“家里的混乱中找到了避难所”，让她“想像着我的人生最不可能的一种可能性”。
The self-reliance she learned as a girl would serve her well in navigating the high altitudes of the Ivy League and later the world of law, but it would also have emotional fallout on her personal life. She says her marriage to her high school sweetheart, Kevin Noonan, fell apart partly because of the demands of her career, partly because her husband said he felt she did not really need him.
她在少年时代就养成的“自立”性格，对她在常春藤盟校以及后来的法律界都很有助益，但是这也给她的私人生活带来了负面影响。她说她与高中时的恋人凯文·诺南(Kevin Noonan)的婚姻之所以破裂，一是因为她的事业要求，二是因为她丈夫说他感觉她并不真的需要他。
She didn’t think of “need as an essential part of love,” she says, but that was perhaps too rational a way of looking at it: “The truth is that since childhood I had cultivated an existential independence. It came from perceiving the adults around me as unreliable, and without it I felt I wouldn’t have survived. I cared deeply for everyone in my family, but in the end I depended on myself.”
她说她并不认为“需要是爱的必要组成部分”，但是这种看法也许太理性了：“事实上，我从小就养成了自力更生的习惯。这是因为我觉察到周围的大人都不可靠，如果没有养成这样的习惯，我感觉我不可能生存下来。我深爱我家里的每个人，但是到最后我还是得靠自己。”
As a girl, Sonia became fascinated with the idea of becoming a lawyer or judge from watching “Perry Mason.” Her first dream, however, was of growing up to become a detective like her favorite heroine, Nancy Drew. Her mind worked in similar ways to Nancy’s, she told herself:
还是小姑娘的时候，索尼娅在看完《佩里·梅森》(Perry Mason)之后，就迷上了当律师或法官的想法。不过，她最初的梦想是成为侦探，就像她最喜欢的女主角南希·德鲁(Nancy Drew)那样。她的思维方式与南希有些相似，她这样对自己说：
“I was a keen observer and listener. I picked up on clues. I figured things out logically, and I enjoyed puzzles. I loved the clear, focused feeling that came when I concentrated on solving a problem and everything else faded out.” That rationality — and her sense of herself as “a creature of rules” — would prove useful in law school, and later when she was a prosecutor and judge.
“我特别善于观察和聆听。我会注意到各种线索。我能从逻辑的角度找出事情的真相，我喜欢解开谜题。我喜欢自己全神贯注解决问题、忘记其他一切时那种清晰、专注的感觉。”理性——以及她认为自己是“规则生物”的感觉——在她读法学院以及后来做检察官和法官时，被证明是有用的。
“If the system is broken, my inclination is to fix it rather than to fight it,” she writes. “I have faith in the process of the law, and if it is carried out fairly, I can live with the results, whatever they may be. And knowing that the poor and minorities are disproportionately the victims of crimes, I’m loath to view the adversarial process of the law as class warfare by another name.”
“如果制度被破坏了，我更愿意修复它，而不是与之对抗，”她写道，“我对法律程序有信心，如果它能公平地进行下去，不管结果是怎样的，我都能接受。我知道穷人和少数族裔往往是犯罪的受害者，所以我很不愿意把法律的对抗过程看作是另一种形式的阶级战争。”
Justice Sotomayor writes as someone with considerable self-knowledge, and she points out that there has been a recurrent pattern in her life. Whether it was Princeton, Yale Law, the Manhattan district attorney’s office or an appointment to the bench, the challenges of a new environment would initially lead to a period “of fevered insecurity, a reflexive terror that I’ll fall flat on my face,” followed by “ferocious compensatory effort.” She had learned from her mother, she says, that “a surplus of effort could overcome a deficit of confidence.”
索托马约尔法官是个非常有自知之明的人，她指出自己的生活有一个循环周期。不管是在普林斯顿大学、耶鲁大学法学院、曼哈顿地方检察院还是被任命为最高法院的法官，新环境带来的挑战最初总会让她感到“极度不安、条件反射式的恐慌，担心自己会跌得很惨”，之后她会“用惊人的努力来弥补”。她说自己早已从母亲那里明白“加倍的努力能克服信心的不足”。
In college she received a C on her first midterm paper and realized she needed to learn how to construct more coherent arguments, and that she also needed to improve her English, which was “riddled with Spanish constructions and usage.” Over the next few summers, she says, she devoted each day’s lunch hour to grammar exercises and to learning 10 new words. She also tried to catch up on the classics — like “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” and “Pride and Prejudice” — that she’d missed out on in her youth, when there was little to read around the house besides Reader’s Digest.
她在大学的第一个期中论文得了C，这让她意识到自己需要学会组织更清晰连贯的论述，此外还需要提高自己的英语水平，因为她的英语里“充满了西班牙语句式和用法”。她说，在接下来的几个夏天，她把每天的午餐时间用来做语法练习并学习10个新单词。她还努力恶补经典著作，比如《哈克贝利·芬历险记》(The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn)和《傲慢与偏见》(Pride and Prejudice)，她年轻时没能读这些书，因为家里除了《读者文摘》(Reader’s Digest)，什么读物也没有。
Fear of leaving anything to chance — another legacy of her unstable childhood — made her prepare intensively for classwork and legal cases. And her single-minded devotion to work paid off: just as she became adept at collecting gold stars as a schoolgirl, so she graduated from Princeton summa cum laude and, as a prosecutor, began racking up convictions. She credits her many mentors — including José A. Cabranes at Yale and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who helped set her career as a federal judge in motion — with teaching her fundamental lessons along the way, which, she says ,she absorbed as a “happy sponge.”
对“凡事靠运气”的恐惧——她不安定的童年生活的另一个后果——促使她认真准备课堂作业和法律案件。除了学业，她心无旁骛，这很快有了回报：因为她成绩一贯优异，所以最后以最优等生的身份从普林斯顿大学毕业；做上检察官后，她开始赢得一场场公诉案件。她为此感激她的众多导师，包括耶鲁大学的乔西·A·卡夫拉内斯(José A. Cabranes)和参议员丹尼尔·帕特里克·莫伊尼汉(Daniel Patrick Moynihan)，后者帮助她走上了联邦法官的职业之路，感谢他们一路上教给她的各种基本经验，她说她像块“快乐的海绵”那样吸取了这些经验。
For instance, she notes that Warren Murray, the bureau chief in the Manhattan district attorney’s office, taught her that, as a prosecutor, she could not appeal to logic alone, but needed to use emotion to make jurors feel the “moral responsibility to convict.”
比如，她提到曼哈顿地方检察院院长沃伦·默里(Warren Murray)曾告诉她，做检察官不能只依靠逻辑，还需要调动陪审员的感情，让他们感觉到“在道德上有责任判定被告人有罪”。
The state’s case “is a narrative: the story of a crime,” she goes on. And: “It is the particulars that make a story real. In examining witnesses, I learned to ask general questions so as to elicit details with powerful sensory associations: the colors, the sounds, the smells that lodge an image in the mind and put the listener in the burning house.”
她继续写道，州判例“就是一个故事：一个犯罪故事”。“是那些细节让一个故事变得真实。我学会在询问证人的时候问一些宽泛的问题，这样就能引出一些跟感官有强烈联系的细节：颜色、声音和气味，这些都能在头脑中形成一个画面，让听众有一种身临其境的感觉。”
This insightful memoir underscores just how well Justice Sotomayor mastered the art of narrative. It’s an eloquent and affecting testament to the triumph of brains and hard work over circumstance, of a childhood dream realized through extraordinary will and dedication.
这部充满见地的回忆录正好突出反映了索托马约尔法官优秀的叙事技巧。它雄辩而感人地证明：智慧和努力可以战胜环境，童年的梦想可以通过坚定的意志和不懈的努力实现。