DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — The well-heeled guests strolled up red carpeted steps and through lines of smiling young women to reach the newest outpost in President Donald Trump’s international business empire.
阿拉伯联合酋长国迪拜——穿着考究的宾客漫步走上铺着红毯的台阶，穿过两侧微笑的年轻女子，来到唐纳德·特朗普总统国际商业帝国的最新堡垒。
At the Saturday night opening of the clubhouse of the Trump International Golf Club, Dubai, guests munched on mini chicken burgers and sipped fizzy lemonade while Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr., the president’s adult sons, lauded the ruler of Dubai and their business partner, Hussain Sajwani.
周六晚上，在迪拜特朗普国际高尔夫俱乐部(Trump International Golf Club)的开业典礼上，宾客们享用迷你鸡肉汉堡，喝着起泡柠檬水，总统的两个成年儿子埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)和小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)赞美了迪拜王储以及他们的商业伙伴侯赛因·沙瓦尼(Hussain Sajwani)。
Sajwani, a billionaire businessman who, like Trump, built his wealth through real estate, told the crowd that working with the Trumps “was and continues to be a pleasure.”
沙瓦尼是一位亿万富商，和特朗普一样，他也是通过地产业获得了财富。他对观众说，与特朗普家族合作“是一件愉快的事，今后也将是如此”。
On the other side of the world, in Vancouver, British Columbia, preparations continued for another ribbon-cutting, on Feb. 28, at a new Trump hotel and condo project there, funded by Malaysian tycoon Tiah Thee Kian and his son, Tiah Joo Kim.
2月28日，在世界另一端的不列颠哥伦比亚省温哥华市，一个新的特朗普酒店和公寓项目的剪彩仪式准备工作正在进行中。这个项目由马来西亚大亨程铁建(Tony Tiah Thee Kian)和儿子程如锦(Tiah Joo Kim)出资。
The two projects, the first to open since Trump became president, are among the dozen international business deals from his former life still moving forward — from India to Indonesia, Uruguay to the Dominican Republic. None of them are “new deals,” as defined by the family, as they were well underway before the election.
这两个项目是特朗普就任总统后最先开业的项目。从印度到印度尼西亚，从乌拉圭到多米尼加共和国，它们是他之前事业延续下来的十几个国际业务中的两个。正如他的家族所说，它们都不是“新业务”，在竞选之前早就开始运作了。
A Web of Complications
复杂的网络
Sajwani and Tiah share traits common among Trump’s partners around the world, including in Indonesia and the Philippines. They are brash, wealthy developers whose families have personal ties to Trump or to his children.
沙瓦尼和程氏父子拥有特朗普在全球各地的商业伙伴共有的特征——包括在印度尼西亚和菲律宾的伙伴。他们都是招摇、富有的开发商，他们的家族都与特朗普或其子女有私交。
But the projects in which the two men are involved highlight the complications created when the U.S. president also owns a global real estate company.
不过，这两个项目突显出美国总统同时拥有一个全球地产公司所造成的棘手情况。
Condominium units in the Vancouver building, the Trump International Hotel & Tower, have been purchased by affluent buyers, including a family that runs a Hong Kong machinery company majority-owned by a Chinese state-owned enterprise, according to real estate and corporate records. The Trump Organization is managing only the hotel, in exchange for a fee.
温哥华特朗普国际酒店和大厦(Trump International Hotel & Tower)的公寓已经被很多富人买走，包括一个经营香港一家机械公司的家族。根据地产和公司记录，该公司由一个中国国企控股。特朗普集团(The Trump Organization)仅经营酒店部分，赚取管理费。
And Sajwani has contracted extensively with the U.S. military and spoken of entering the U.S. real estate market — moves that could be easier with a friend in the White House.
沙瓦尼与美国军方有着广泛的业务联系，也提到过进军美国地产市场——在白宫有一位朋友，他的行动会更容易一些。
Eric Trump, who with his older brother helps run the Trump Organization now that their father is president, said before the Dubai event that the company was not the owner of either development, but only collected a small share of the revenues, and that it did not control who bought the units in Vancouver or the membership list at the golf course in Dubai.
父亲就任总统后，埃里克·特朗普和哥哥帮助经营特朗普集团。在迪拜的这次活动之前，埃里克表示，该集团不是这两个项目的所有者，只收取一小部分收益，对温哥华公寓的购买者和迪拜高尔夫俱乐部的会员也没有控制权。
Addressing the guests Saturday, Eric Trump praised his family’s partnership with Sajwani.
周六，埃里克·特朗普在向宾客们致辞时赞扬了他的家族与沙瓦尼的合作关系。
“It is not every day that you have a partner that is also a great friend,” he said. “Hussain, thank you so much for your love, your friendship.”
“你并不总是能碰到能成为好朋友的商业伙伴，”他说，“侯赛因，非常感谢你的爱和友谊。”
Donald Trump Jr. praised Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai, saying it was his vision for the country that allowed such projects to succeed.
小唐纳德·特朗普赞扬了迪拜王储谢赫穆罕默德·本·拉希德·阿勒马克图姆(Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum)，称这些项目的成功得益于阿勒马克图姆对这个国家的远见。
“It’s a great example of what can be built here and what will continue to be built in the years to come,” he said.
“它是一个典范，向我们展示了这里可以修建什么，以及在未来的很多年里可以继续修建什么，”他说。
Golf Course in the Desert
沙漠中的高尔夫球场
A few years ago, Trump, then a real estate tycoon, visited what would turn out to be his first project to open after he became president and his first in the Arab world.
几年前，当时身为地产大亨的特朗普参观了后来成为他当选总统后第一个开业的项目的地方。那也是他在阿拉伯国家的第一个项目。
The Trump International Golf Club Dubai was to form the centerpiece of a luxurious collection of upscale homes, and Trump wanted to check the details.
迪拜特朗普国际高尔夫俱乐部是一系列奢华高档住宅的中心项目，特朗普想要核实细节。
“We walked through the golf course and he said: ‘You see that tree; move it 10 feet there. That tree is too small; make it bigger,'” recalled Niall McLoughlin, a senior vice president at Damac Properties, which owns the project. “His attention to detail is tremendous.”
“我们走过高尔夫球场，他说：‘你看那棵树，把它往那儿挪10英尺。那棵树太小了，弄大点，’”达马克房地产公司(Damac Properties)的高级副总裁尼尔·麦克洛克林(Niall McLoughlin)回忆说。该项目归该公司所有。“他非常关注细节。”
The Trump Organization had been brought in to operate the golf course by Damac, whose chairman, Sajwani, had known Trump for years.
达马克公司的主席沙瓦尼认识特朗普多年。是他让特朗普集团加入了该高尔夫球场的运营。
Questions swirled about the commitment of Sajwani, a Muslim in a predominantly Muslim country, to the Trump brand in 2015, after Trump said that if elected, he would impose a ban on Muslims entering the United States.
2015年，在特朗普声称自己当选后会禁止穆斯林进入美国之后，关于沙瓦尼对特朗普品牌的承诺出现了很多质疑。沙瓦尼是一个以穆斯林为主的国家里的一名穆斯林。
A few days later, billboards near the course in Dubai showing Trump swinging a golf club and his daughter Ivanka holding a handbag were temporarily taken down, as was Trump’s name, spelled out in gold letters on a wall near the entrance.
数日后，迪拜高尔夫球场附近展示特朗普挥动球杆、女儿伊万卡拿着手袋的广告牌以及入口附近墙上用金字拼出的特朗普名字被暂时撤下。
McLoughlin, of Damac, said in an interview in November that the changes had been routine and unrelated to Trump’s statements.
去年11月，达马克的麦克洛克林在采访中表示，那是些例行的变动，与特朗普的声明无关。
“It was a purely unfortunate coincidence,” he said. “We are an apolitical organization.”
“那纯粹是不幸的巧合，”他说，“我们是一个不关心政治的公司。”
There was no overt mention of Trump at the clubhouse opening Saturday, but his name was omnipresent, on flags flying around the golf course and on hats, shirts, visors and balls for sale in the pro shop.
周六的俱乐部开业典礼没有明显提及特朗普，但他的名字随处可见——在高尔夫球场四周飞扬的旗帜上以及高尔夫专卖店销售的帽子、衬衫、遮阳帽和高尔夫球上。
A Tower in Vancouver
温哥华的大厦
Later this month, Trump’s sons are scheduled to preside over another grand opening, this time of the Trump International Hotel & Tower Vancouver, which was developed by the Holborn Group, run by Tiah Joo Kim, 37.
本月底，特朗普的儿子们将主持另一场盛大的开业典礼——温哥华特朗普国际酒店和大厦的开业典礼。该项目是37岁的程如锦经营的鸿博地产集团(Holborn Group)开发的。
Tiah formed the partnership with the Trump family and spearheaded the development of the residence and hotel, his first major project, by first making a pitch first to Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka. Their father eventually signed off on the deal.
程如锦与特朗普家族达成合作关系，领头开发了这个住宅和酒店项目，这是他的首个大型项目。他先是说服了小唐纳德、埃里克和伊万卡，他们的父亲最终批准了这个项目。
Tiah’s father, Tiah Thee Kian, made his fortune in the Malaysian stock market in the 1980s. But in the late 1990s, he was accused of violating securities law and eventually paid a fine of about $900,000. At the time, he was said to be a supporter of Anwar Ibrahim, then deputy prime minister, who had challenged the leadership of Mahathir Mohamad, the prime minister. Anwar was later imprisoned on sodomy charges, a case widely seen as politically motivated.
20世纪80年代，程如锦的父亲程铁建在马来西亚股市发了财。但在90年代末，他被指控违反证券法，最终支付了约90万美元罚款。据说当时他是时任副总理安瓦尔·易卜拉欣(Anwar Ibrahim)的支持者，后者质疑过总理马哈蒂尔·穆罕默德(Mahathir Mohamad)的领导权。安瓦尔后来因鸡奸罪入狱，该案被普遍认为是政治斗争的结果。
In a country that runs on political patronage, one where many decisions are made behind the scenes, the elder Tiah’s political alliance with Anwar may have contributed to his legal setbacks. Political analysts and insiders say he has not been involved in politics since that time and has kept a low profile.
政治庇护在马来西亚蔚然成风，很多决定都是幕后做出的，程铁建与安瓦尔的政治联盟可能是他诉讼受挫的原因。政治分析人士和内部人士表示，从那以后，他没有参与过政治，一直保持低调。
The company’s most profitable venture is the Trump development in Vancouver, the younger Tiah said, adding that he assiduously avoided any political entanglements. When he reached an agreement with Trump in 2012, he never foresaw that Trump would have a political career.
程如锦称，该公司最赚钱的项目是温哥华的特朗普开发项目。他还表示，他刻意避免任何政治纠葛。2012年，他与特朗普达成协议时，绝没有料到特朗普会拥有一番政治事业。
The Vancouver project includes 217 residential units. All were sold before the election except for the three penthouses, which have not been put on the market. No buyer has sought to back out, Tiah said.
温哥华的项目包括217套公寓。除了尚未上市的三套顶层公寓，其他的在竞选前都已售出。程如锦称，没有哪位买家试图退款。
The Trump name represents quality,” said Bill Streeper, mayor of the Northern Rockies municipality in British Columbia and a major real estate developer, who bought a unit in the tower on the 55th floor in 2013, long before Trump won the Republican nomination.
“特朗普的名字代表着品质，”不列颠哥伦比亚省北部落基山市市长、主要地产开发商比尔·斯特里珀(Bill Streeper)说。2013年，他买下了该大厦55层的一套公寓，远在特朗普赢得共和党提名之前。
Trump’s election victory has brought a great deal of attention, good and bad, to the hotel, the younger Tiah said. There have been anti-Trump protests, but the hotel has also received plenty of free publicity.
程如锦称，特朗普当选给该酒店带来了很多正面和负面的关注。有一些反特朗普抗议，但酒店也获得了很多免费宣传。
On a recent visit to the hotel’s Champagne bar, Brittany Dacosta, 26, was having a drink with her sister. She said it was her second time at Trump Vancouver in the past week. “This place is very controversial, so it kind of made us want to come here more,” she said. “I know it sounds bad, but Trump is glamorous.”
前不久，26岁的布里塔妮· 达科斯塔(Brittany Dacosta)和姐妹在该酒店的香槟酒吧喝酒。她说，这是她在过去的一周里第二次来到温哥华特朗普酒店。“这个地方很有争议，所以有点让我们更想来这儿，”她说，“我知道这听起来很糟，但特朗普很有魅力。”
Tiah said he tried to steer a middle course and encourage tolerance.
程如锦表示，他努力保持中间路线，鼓励宽容。
“The American people have chosen,” he said, “so let’s respect their decision and give him a chance.”
“美国人民做出了选择，”他说，“所以让我们尊重他们的选择，给他一个机会。”