When Katherine Nguyen and Vincent Todarello shared a 400-square-foot studio near Canal Street, they rented a storage unit for the overflow of their stuff. Five years ago, caught in the whirlwind of wedding planning, they decided to buy a suburban house.
凯瑟琳·阮(Katherine Nguyen)与文森特·托达雷洛(Vincent Todarello)在坚尼街(Canal Street)的一套400平方英尺（约37平方米）的单间公寓合住时，还专门租了一间储藏室来存放家里放不下的那些东西。五年前，他们在忙忙碌碌地筹办婚礼期间，买下了郊区的一栋房屋。
Their purchase, near the Babylon train station on Long Island, was not far from Mr. Todarello’s hometown, Oakdale. Closer to Manhattan was unaffordable; farther was uncommutable. They were captivated by a three-bedroom ranch with a big basement, and bought it for $389,000. Setting up house was “all fun HGTV stuff,” Ms. Todarello said. “Maybe we weren’t thinking straight.”
他们购置的那栋房子位于长岛巴比伦火车站(Babylon train station)附近，距离托达雷洛先生的家乡奥克戴尔(Oakdale)不远。若离曼哈顿再近一些，经济上就会难以承受；若离曼哈顿再远一些，通勤上又十分不便。于是，他们看中了这套带有一间大地窖的三居室牧场屋，并以38.9万美元（约合人民币239万元）的价格买了下来。安置一个家就像“家园频道(HGTV)里的节目那么有趣，”托达雷洛先生说， “所以我们可能有些欠考虑了。”
Their distaste for the suburban lifestyle surfaced within months.
还不到几个月的功夫，他们对郊区生活的抵触就显现了出来。
The commute felt oppressive. On a good day, it was an hour and a half, door-to-door. Mr. Todarello, a lawyer who is now 36, worked so much that “six hours of sleep was a treat,” he said. During the commute, he wrote on his laptop, working on his sci-fi and fantasy novels and his steakhouse review site, johnnyprimesteaks.com.
通勤的压力尤其大。若天气晴好，从家里到达公司需要花一个半小时。今年36岁的托达雷洛先生是一名律师，工作非常勤奋，以至于对他来说，“六个小时的睡眠时间是一种优待，”他说。在通勤路上，他还在笔记本电脑上写作，一边创作他的那些科幻小说，一边维护他的牛排餐厅评论网站， johnnyprimesteaks.com.
Ms. Todarello, 31, an in-house auditor, read or slept on the train. At least they commuted together. “We could lean on each other, we could hold hands, we could spread out,” Mr. Todarello said.
今年31岁的托达雷洛太太是一名内部审计员，她会在火车上读书或睡觉。至少，他俩可以一起上班。“我们可以靠着彼此，可以牵手，可以舒展身体。”托达雷洛说。
Things began to go wrong at the house. Ants invaded and trees rotted. The washer broke and flooded part of that big basement. Upkeep seemed endless and costly.
但这栋房子开始有些不对劲了。蚂蚁闯了进来，树木都烂了。家里的洗碗机也出了问题，把那间大地下室淹了一半。维护房屋的工作似乎总也做不完，而且成本高昂。
“We had some tiffs because of lack of money or lack of sleep,” Ms. Todarello said. “I don’t feel we enjoyed anything because we were commuting or working all the time.”
“因为缺钱，睡眠又不够，我们曾经吵过几回架，”托达雷洛太太说，“我觉得我们并不喜欢这样的生活，因为我们的全部时间都在通勤或工作。”
After two years, they tried and failed to sell the house, so they decided to tough out suburban life for a few more years, during which time the roof needed replacing.
两年后，他们曾想出售这栋房屋，但没能成功。于是，他们决定继续熬着，再过几年郊区生活。而在这段时间里，他们的屋顶又得换一换了。
Earlier this summer, the Todarellos were able to sell the house for $345,000. They sold, donated or ditched much of their stuff in preparation for downsizing. “I got rid of everything I could separate from emotionally,” Mr. Todarello said.
今年初夏，托达雷洛夫妇终于有机会以34.5万美元（约合人民币212万）的价格出售这栋房子了。他们卖掉房子、把大部分东西扔了或捐了，以便为精简生活做准备。“我扔掉了所有可扔的东西。”托达雷洛先生说。
This time, they wanted a large one-bedroom in a doorman high-rise in Midtown West. Their budget allowed for a monthly rent in the $3,000s.
这次，他们想在中城西区一栋带门卫的大厦里租一套大面积的单卧室公寓。他们的预算可以接受每月3000美元（约合人民币18459元）的租金水平。
They checked out two high-rises, both on West 50th Street. At Longacre House, small one-bedrooms were around $3,800 a month and larger ones were in the $4,000s. One block away, at Avalon Midtown West, one-bedrooms started in the mid-$3,000s. Prices seemed high for the size of the apartments. And the buildings were too close to crowded Times Square, which Ms. Todarello aimed to avoid on her walk to her office near Grand Central Terminal.
他们去看了两栋大楼，都位于西50街(West 50th Street)。在Longacre House大厦中，小面积单卧室公寓每月的租金约为3800美元（约合人民币23381元），面积大一些的则超过了4000美元（约合人民币24612元）。而在与之相隔一条街区的 Avalon Midtown West大厦，单卧室公寓的租金起价在3500美元（约合人民币21535元）以上。这些价格，相较于公寓的大小而言，似乎都高了一些。而且，这两栋楼太靠近人潮汹涌的时代广场了，那正是托达雷洛太太每天步行去中央车站(Grand Central Terminal)附近的公司上班时打算绕开的地方。
Carnegie Mews, on West 56th Street, had a one-bedroom for $3,300 a month. But it had an electric range, and they wanted gas.
在西56街(West 56th Street)的Carnegie Mews大厦，有一套月租金3300美元（约合人民币20305元）的单卧室公寓。但这套公寓中配的是一台电磁炉，而不是他们想用的天然气。
A few days later, they saw a $3,325 one-bedroom at La Premiere on West 55th Street, with a dining area and a balcony. They were interested. But they submitted their paperwork too late, a few hours after another qualified applicant had done so.
几天后，他们在西55街(West 55th Street)的La Premiere大厦看了一套月租3325美元（约合人民币20459元）的单卧室公寓，公寓中有一处餐厅区和一座阳台。他们很感兴趣，但他们提交申请文件的时间太晚了，恰巧在几个小时之前，另一位合格的申请者也递交了文件。
“I was such a crank,” Mr. Todarello said. “I got demotivated and disheartened and got into a mood.” He went to bed angry. Ms. Todarello stayed up with StreetEasy.
“我太喜欢那套公寓了，”托达雷洛先生说，“于是灰心丧气，情绪很不好。”他气恼地去睡了。而托达雷洛太太则整晚都在浏览StreetEasy网站。
When she upped the search parameters to $4,000 a month, an 850-square-foot one-bedroom appeared on Central Park South near Columbus Circle. The rent had dropped to $3,795 after two months on the market for $4,200.
当她把搜寻范围上调至月租4000美元（约合人民币24612元）时，看见哥伦布环岛(Columbus Circle)附近的中央公园南区(Central Park South)有一套面积850平方英尺（约79平方米）的单卧室公寓。这套公寓在租赁市场中以4200美元（约合人民币25843元）的价格招租了两个月后，租金已经降到了3795美元（约合人民币23350元）。
The Todarellos scheduled an appointment for the next day at lunchtime, and arrived to a thundering racket.
于是托达雷洛夫妇安排第二天午餐时去看一看，然后他们发现自己来到了一个闹哄哄的地方。
Jackhammers “were at full blast when we walked into the apartment,” Mr. Todarello said. Two residential towers were going up just outside. They weren’t bothered a bit. The apartment had new appliances and enormous closets. All of their furniture would fit, including Ms. Todarello’s workbench for her hobby, cake decorating.
“我们走进这套公寓时，听见到处都是电钻的声音，”托达雷洛先生说。外面刚好有两栋高楼正在施工。但他们丝毫不受干扰。这套公寓里有一些新电器，还有几个巨大的橱柜。那里所有的家具都很适合他们，托达雷洛太太甚至有一处工作台，可以满足她热衷蛋糕裱花的爱好。
The rent is lower for apartments that face the construction site, said the rental agent, Belle Goldshmidt of the Corcoran Group. She urges prospective tenants to visit during construction hours and experience the noise at full volume. “Most of the people, they don’t care,” she said. “I don’t know why they don’t care.”
科克伦集团(Corcoran Group)的房屋租赁经纪人贝莱·戈尔德施密特(Belle Goldshmidt)说，这栋大楼面对施工场所的那些公寓的租金都较低一些。她力劝有意向的租客们在施工期间去看房，以便感受一下这里最大分贝的噪音。“大多数人并不介意，”她说。“我不知道他们为什么不介意。”
The Todarellos didn’t care. “We are going to be at work,” Ms. Todarello said. The couple signed on for two years and arrived earlier this summer.
托达雷洛夫妇就不介意。“那时我们会在工作的地方，”托达雷洛太太说。夫妻俩签了两年的租约，并于今年初夏搬了进去。
The din begins on the dot of 7 on weekday mornings, and 9 on Saturdays, with Sundays off. But Mr. Todarello is an early riser anyway, and “Katherine sleeps right through it — she’s like a corpse,” he said.
每周几个工作日的早晨，这里的噪音会从7分贝开始，周六是9分贝，周日则没有噪音。但好在托达雷洛先生是个早起的人，而“凯瑟琳却睡得浑然不知——她睡得就像不省人事了一样，”他说。