A team of archaeologists and mapmakers say they have uncovered a forgotten tunnel that 80 Jews dug largely by hand as they tried to escape from a Nazi extermination site in Lithuania about 70 years ago.
一组考古学家与地图绘制者表示，他们在立陶宛发现了一处被人遗忘的隧道，它是70多年前由80多个犹太人为了从纳粹大屠杀逃生，几乎徒手挖出来的。
The Lithuanian site, Ponar, holds mass burial pits and graves where up to 100,000 people were killed and their bodies dumped or burned during the Holocaust.
这处名叫波纳尔(Ponar)的立陶宛遗址分布着大量墓穴与乱葬坑，纳粹大屠杀期间，约有10万人在这里遭到杀害，尸体在这里遭到抛弃或焚烧。
Using radar and radio waves to scan beneath the ground, the researchers found the tunnel, a 100-foot passageway between five and nine feet below the surface, the team announced on Wednesday.
该小组于周三宣布，他们在使用雷达和无线电波扫描地表时发现了这条隧道，它长达100英尺，位于地表五至六英尺之下。
A previous attempt made by a different team in 2004 to find the underground structure had only located its mouth, which was subsequently left unmarked. The new finding traces the tunnel from entrance to exit and provides evidence to support survivor accounts of the harrowing effort to escape the holding pit.
2004年，另一个寻找这个地道的小组只发现了它的入口，之后再无进展。新的发现从入口一直追溯到出口，为幸存者对他们从乱葬坑中挖出逃生路的描述提供了证据。
“What we were able to do was not only solve one of the greatest mysteries and escape stories of the Holocaust,” said Richard Freund, an archaeologist from the University of Hartford in Connecticut and one of the team leaders. “We were also able to unravel one of the biggest problems they have with a site like this: How many burial pits are there?”
“我们能做的不仅是揭开纳粹大屠杀期间一个最大的求生谜团，”康涅狄格州哈特福德大学(University of Hartford)考古学家理查德·弗洛德(Richard Freund)说。“还能解答关于类似这样一处遗址往往碰到的最大问题：到底有多少乱葬坑？”
Dr. Freund and his colleagues, working with the PBS science series NOVA for a documentary that will be broadcast next year, also uncovered another burial pit containing the ashes of perhaps 7,000 people. That would be the 12th burial pit identified in Ponar; officially known today as Paneriai.
弗洛德博士和同事们正在与PBS电视台的科学系列节目NOVA合作拍摄一部纪录片，它将在明年上映；他们还发现了另一个乱葬坑，里面恐怕埋葬了约7000人的骨灰。这是波纳尔发现的第12个乱葬坑，如今这里的官方地名叫做帕内莱伊(Paneriai)。
From 1941 until 1944, tens of thousands of Jews from the nearby city of Vilnius, known as the Jerusalem of Lithuania, were brought to Ponar and shot at close range. Their bodies were dumped into the pits and buried.
从1941年到1944年，数万名居住在附近有“立陶宛的耶路撒冷”之称的维尔纽斯市的犹太人，被带到波纳尔，遭到近距离枪决。他们的尸体被丢在大坑中埋葬。
“I call Ponar ground zero for the Holocaust,” Dr. Freund said. “For the first time we have systematic murder being done by the Nazis and their assistants.” According to Dr. Freund, the events at the site took place about six months before the Nazis started using gas chambers elsewhere for their extermination plans.
“我把波纳尔称为纳粹大屠杀的爆心投影点，”弗洛德博士说。“这里是纳粹和帮凶第一次进行系统屠杀的地点。”弗洛德博士说，这里的屠杀比纳粹在其他地方使用毒气室进行屠杀早了六个月。
An estimated 100,000 people, including 70,000 Jews, died at Ponar. Over four years, about 150 Lithuanian collaborators killed the prisoners — usually in groups of about 10. In 1943 when it became clear the Soviets were going to take over Lithuania, the Nazis began to cover up the evidence of the mass killings. They forced a group of 80 Jews to exhume the bodies, burn them and bury the ashes. At the time they were called the Leichenkommando, or “corpse unit,” but in the years that followed they were known as the Burning Brigade.
据估计，大约10万人（其中包括7万名犹太人）在波纳尔死去。四年的时间里，大约有150名立陶宛通敌者负责杀害囚犯，囚犯通常以10人为一组。1943年，苏军即将占领立陶宛之前，纳粹开始毁灭大屠杀的证据。他们逼迫80名犹太人挖掘尸体，进行焚烧，并埋葬骨灰。当时这些犹太人被称为“Leichenkommando”，即“尸体小组”，但后来又被称为“焚烧队”。
For months, the Jewish prisoners dug up and burned bodies. One account tells of a man who identified his wife and two sisters among the corpses. The group knew that once their job was finished, they, too, would be executed, so they developed an escape plan.
在好几个月的时间里，这些犹太囚犯都在干着挖出尸体将其焚烧的工作。有记载说，一个男人在尸堆里认出了自己的妻子和两个姊妹。这群人知道，一旦任务完成，他们自己也会被处死，于是他们开始筹划逃跑方案。
About half of the group spent 76 days digging a tunnel in their holding pit by hand and with spoons they found among the bodies. On April 15, 1944 — the last night of Passover when they knew the night would be darkest — the brigade crawled through the two-foot-square tunnel entrance and through to the forest.
这群人中有一半人花了76天时间在乱葬坑中用手和在尸体中间发现的汤匙挖掘出了一条隧道。1944年4月15日是逾越节前夜，他们知道这是最黑暗的一个晚上，于是顺着这条两平方英尺的隧道逃进了森林。
The noise alerted the guards, who pursued the prisoners with guns and dogs. Of the 80, 12 managed to escape; 11 of them survived the war and went on to tell their stories, according to the researchers.
声音惊动了警卫，他们带着枪和猎狗去追捕这些囚徒，研究者说，在这80人当中，有12人逃生，其中11人在战后幸存，讲述他们的故事。
Dr. Freund and his team used the information from survivors’ accounts to search for the tunnel.
弗洛德和他的小组利用幸存者们讲述的信息来寻找这条隧道。
Rather then excavate and disturb the remains, he and his team used two noninvasive tools — electrical resistivity tomography and ground penetrating radar.
他们没有进行发掘，以免惊扰死者，而是使用了两种没有侵害性的工具——电阻断层成像术和探地雷达。
Electrical resistivity tomography is like an M.R.I. for the ground; it provides a clear picture of the subsurface. It uses electricity to identify stones, metal and clay as well as soil disturbances like those made by digging.
电阻断层成像术有点像给地面做核磁共振，它能提供清晰的地下图像。它通过电流来分辨石头、金属、陶瓷以及在挖掘中被翻动的土壤。
“We used the tool to pinpoint the locations where people most likely tunneled through,” said Paul Bauman a geophysicist with WorleyParsons, an Australian engineering company, who handled the tomography tool. “We’re highly confident we’ve identified exactly where the tunnel is.”
“我们使用这种工具来定位那些人可能挖掘隧道的地点，” 澳大利亚沃利帕森斯(WorleyParsons)工程公司的地球物理学家保罗·鲍曼(Paul Bauman)说，他负责使用断层成像工具。“我们找到了这条隧道的准确地点，我们对此非常自信。”
With the tool, they also found a previously unknown pit which they think is the largest ever discovered in the area. They estimate that it might have contained as many as 10,000 bodies.
他们还用这一工具找到了一个之前不为人知的坟坑，他们认为是这一带迄今发现的最大坟坑，里面估计埋葬了一万具尸体。
The other tool, the ground penetrating radar, uses FM radio waves to scan about 10 feet under the surface.
另一工具探地雷达使用调频无线电声波扫描地表10英尺以下的状况。
“What we are doing is using those FM radio waves that people listen to in their car and we’re putting them into the ground,” said Harry Jol, professor of geology and anthropology at the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire. “We’re getting reflections off the archaeological features or landscapes in the subsurface so we can image what’s happening.”
“我们使用的就是人们在车里听的那种调频无线电，只不过把电波传送到地下，”威斯康辛大学奥克莱尔分校(University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire)的地质学与人类学教授哈利·吉尔(Harry Jol)说。“如果在地下遇到考古特征或景观，电波信号就会反射回来，我们就可以勾勒出它们的形态。”
The team also used the ground penetrating radar to search for the Great Synagogue of Vilnius, which was destroyed by the Nazis.
这一团队曾使用探地雷达在维尔纽斯研究过被纳粹摧毁的大犹太会堂(Great Synagogue)。
“The Holocaust is so overwhelming that we only really look at the end of the story — and that isn’t the whole story,” said Jon Seligman, an archaeologist with the Israel Antiquities Authority, who also led the team. “The whole story is the history of Jews who lived in this area for many, many centuries.”
“纳粹大屠杀实在过于巨大，我们只能看到故事的结尾，但这并不是故事的全部，”以色列文物局考古学家琼恩·塞利格曼(Jon Seligman)说，他也是这个团队的领导者之一。“完整的故事就是犹太人长达几个世纪在这个地区生活的历史。”
Before World War II, Vilnius was a bustling Jewish center with more than 100,000 people. When the Soviets took over Lithuania, they erected an elementary school over the rubble of the city’s Great Synagogue. Using the radar, the team uncovered artifacts from the synagogue, including its ritual bath house.
“二战”之前，维尔纽斯曾是一个繁忙的犹太人中心，有10万多的人口。后来苏联接管立陶宛时，他们在城市大犹太会堂的废墟上兴建了一座小学。这个团队使用雷达发现了不少会堂的艺术品，包括其举行仪式用的浴室。
“If we had never discovered the tunnel, people would have thought in another 20 years it was a myth, and they would have questioned – What do we really know happened?” said Dr. Freund. “This is a great story about the way that people overcame the worst possible condition, and still had this hope that they could get out.”
“如果我们没有发现这条隧道，接下来20年里，人们还会觉得这个故事是个神话，他们还会问——我们对发生的事情到底知道多少呢？”弗洛德博士说。“这是一个人们战胜最坏的状况，不放弃一线求生希望的的伟大故事。”