When President Trump is ready to let the world know that he is disappointed with the intelligence community, the United States judiciary, individual journalists, department stores or whatever else lands on his radar, he uses Twitter to blast his targets.
当特朗普做好准备，想让全世界知道他对情报界、美国司法界、个别记者、百货商场或是他所关注的其他任何人和事感到不满时，他总是利用Twitter轰炸其目标。
It was only a matter of time until his supporters adopted his style.
随着时间的推移，他的支持者也有样学样。
“I voted for you but you’re still acting like a baby,” one supporter from North Carolina wrote on Sunday, the same day Mr. Trump insulted the billionaire Mark Cuban by saying that he was ‘‘not smart enough to run for president.’’
“我为你投了票，但你仍然像个孩子般行事，”一名来自北卡罗莱纳州的支持者于上周日写道。当天，特朗普羞辱了亿万富商马克·库班(Mark Cuban)，说他“还没聪明到有资格竞选总统的程度”。
“When are you going to act Presidential???” wrote another supporter in Arizona that day. “Not every thought needs tweeting.”
“你何时才能有点总统的样子？？？”另一名亚利桑那州的支持者那天写道。“不是想到什么就得发推的。”
“I voted for you but this is embarrassing,” someone else wrote last week, responding to the president’s tweet attacking the department store Nordstrom.
“我为你投了票，但现在觉得很尴尬，”另外一个人上周写道，这是对总统攻击诺德斯特龙(Nordstrom)百货商场的那则推文的回应。
Complaints like these are being logged by a Twitter account called @Trump_Regrets. Since November, the account, managed by Erica Baguma, a 23-year-old Canadian college student, has climbed to more than 220,000 followers by curating some 1,500 messages, mostly from exasperated people who claimed to have voted for Mr. Trump.
一个名为“对特朗普的遗憾”(@Trump_Regrets)的Twitter 账号正在收录此类抱怨。该账号由23岁的加拿大大学生埃丽卡·巴古马(Erica Baguma)管理，自去年11月以来，通过策划展示约1500条信息收获了超过22万粉丝，大部分信息都来自那些自称为特朗普投了票而又感到恼火的人。
It’s easy to dismiss Trump Regrets for what, at first glance, looks like shaky sourcing: It has popped up at a time when several dubious-looking accounts exist just to serve up what a writer for Esquire magazine calls “liberal bait.” Some of the messages are sent from people hiding behind Pepe the Frog avatars, a mascot of alt-right trolls and a designated hate symbol, or faceless egg avatars. Eggs can be especially shifty with their allegiances.
人们很可能不会理睬“对特朗普的遗憾”，因为其来路乍一看有些不靠谱：它在若干形迹可疑的账号只为充当《君子》(Esquire)杂志一名作者所说的“自由主义诱饵”而存在之际，忽然冒出了头。一些信息是由躲在青蛙哥佩佩(Pepe the Frog)头像或无面鸡蛋头像后边的人发布的。佩佩是另类右派喷子的吉祥物，被列为仇恨的象征；鸡蛋头像背后的发帖者的立场则是极其不可靠。
Ms. Baguma, who started the account, said in an interview that she relies on the account’s followers to let her know when a reply is spam. Still, she said it’s difficult to weed out all falsities. With this in mind, The New York Times reached out to a dozen people whose messages were shared by the account, and checked their names against public records, including activity on other social media platforms. Interviews with several of them suggested that their disappointment is real, but that they also would not have voted for Mr. Trump’s opponent, Hillary Clinton.
创立这一账号的巴古马接受采访时表示，如果一则回复有灌水嫌疑，粉丝们会告知她。不过她说还是难以清除所有不实信息。有鉴于此，《纽约时报》(The New York Times)联系了十二名所发信息被该账号分享的人士，比照公开记录——包括他们在其他社交媒体平台上的行为——核对了他们的名字。对其中几个人的采访表明，他们的失望之情是真实的，但他们不管怎样也不会为特朗普的对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)投票。
And, contrary to the name of the Trump Regrets account, not everyone who has lodged a complaint regrets voting for Mr. Trump.
此外，与“对特朗普的遗憾”这个账号名字相反，并非所有发帖抱怨的人都对投票给特朗普感到遗憾。
“You kind of learn that you can’t really generalize a population,” Ms. Baguma said. “I learned that the population is a lot more diverse than I expected.”
“你差不多可以明白，你真的不能对一群人一概而论，”巴古马说。“我意识到这群人的多样化程度比我预想的高得多。”
Jon A. Krosnick, a professor at Stanford University who studies the psychology of voting, said that he was struck by how many of the Trump Regrets messages seemed to focus on Mr. Trump’s brash leadership style over his policies.
在斯坦福大学(Stanford University)从事投票心理学研究的约恩·A·克罗斯尼克(Jon A. Krosnick)教授说，“对特朗普的遗憾”的信息中似乎有太多都把重点放在了特朗普轻率的领导风格而非他的政策上，这让他感到震惊。
Mr. Krosnick said Mr. Trump’s rushed travel ban was a prime example.
克罗斯尼克说，特朗普仓促颁布的旅行禁令就是一个很好的例子。
“What’s fascinating about this is people are saying, ‘I elected you to be president and you’re not acting presidential,’ ” Mr. Krosnick said.
“在这件事上颇为有趣的是，人们都在说，‘我选你当总统，你却无法像个总统一样行事，’”克罗斯尼克说。
He added: “There is this personal component that is part of the pain: ‘You’re not just hurting the country, you’re hurting me.’ ”
他补充道：“这种个人化情绪是痛苦的组成部分：‘你不仅伤害了这个国家，你还伤害了我’。”
Suzanna Ferebee, 53, who works as a private assistant in San Clemente, Calif., is among the Trump voters whose criticism was shared by the account. She generally agrees with Mr. Trump’s policies and voted for him because she wants things to improve for the middle class. But so far, she said in an interview, she’s embarrassed by the president’s behavior.
由投票给特朗普的选民发布并被该账号分享的批评之辞中，有一则来自现年53岁、在加州圣克莱门特做私人助理的苏珊娜·费尔比(Suzanna Ferebee)。她基本赞同特朗普的政策，并为其投了票，因为她希望中产阶级的状况能得到改善。但她接受采访时说，到目前为止，总统的行为让她感到尴尬。
“I look at my Twitter feed every morning and say, ‘Oh, why did you do that?’ ” Ms. Ferebee said.
“我每天早上都要看着我的Twitter信息流问自己，‘哎，你为什么那么做？’”费尔比说。
Debbie Nelson, a secretary who lives in Orland Park, Ill., and works in downtown Chicago, said in an interview that she never liked Mr. Trump, but ended up voting for him because she was worried jobs like hers were being outsourced. She also didn’t trust Mrs. Clinton.
在伊利诺伊州奥兰帕克居住、在芝加哥市中心工作的秘书黛比·纳尔逊(Debbie Nelson)接受采访时说，她从来都不喜欢特朗普，但最终还是为其投了票，因为担心秘书之类的工作岗位被外包出去。此外，她也不信任克林顿。
Ms. Nelson reluctantly voted for Mr. Trump — “because of Hillary’s lies” — but grew disillusioned with Mr. Trump’s behavior, which she thought would change after the election. On Feb. 6, she added her message for the president to the fray: “We need a mature adult as president. Can I take my vote back?” (For Ms. Nelson, the tipping point was seeing Mr. Trump dismiss news and negative polls as fake that day.)
纳尔逊不情不愿地把票投给了特朗普——“因为希拉里的谎言”——但对特朗普的行为感到幻灭，她本以为特朗普当选后会改头换面。2月6日，她加入讨论，发了一则关于特朗普的消息：“我们需要一个成熟的成年人来当总统。我能收回自己的选票吗？”（对纳尔逊来说，转折点是她当天目睹特朗普把新闻报道和负面民调斥为假新闻。）
Mr. Trump entered the White House with a historically low approval rating, but Ms. Nelson is among the voters who approve of his overall policies, especially when it comes to immigration. “I do want better security and I don’t think there is anything wrong with that,” she said.
特朗普入主白宫时的支持率创下了历史最低水平，但纳尔逊像很多人一样赞成其整体政策，尤其是移民政策。“我想要更大的安全感，我不觉得这有什么不对，”她说。
But she was frustrated with the slapdash nature of Mr. Trump’s executive order to restrict refugees and people from several primarily Muslim countries. That travel ban has since been bogged down in court, most recently when a federal appeals panel refused to reinstate it last week.
但特朗普极为草率地签署行政令，限制来自若干以穆斯林为主的国家的难民和人员入境，让她感到失望。这一旅行禁令已被法院冻结，最新动态是一个上诉庭于上周拒绝恢复该禁令。
“I understand his concept of rushing in,” Ms. Nelson, 59, said, “but when you are the president of the free world like he is, you have to do things procedurally. You just can’t go willy-nilly.”
“我明白他想要一蹴而就，”现年59岁的纳尔逊说，“但如果你像他一样是这个自由国度的总统，你就必须依照程序做事。你不能不管三七二之一。”
People who have had their messages shared from the Trump Regrets account have quickly been pulled into debates with people who reject Mr. Trump’s policies, and tend to get a deluge of criticism after their tweets are shared by the account.
所发信息被“对特朗普的遗憾”这个账号分享的人，很快就卷入了与排斥特朗普政策的那些人的论战，而且在其推文被该账号分享后极有可能面对大量批评。
When Chad Watson, a claims adjuster for a risk management firm who lives near Indianapolis, tweeted his regret for voting for Mr. Trump on Feb. 8, he said a woman told him she’d never forgive him for his vote.
住在印第安纳波利斯附近的查德·沃森(Chad Watson)是一家风险管理公司的理赔人。他说，当他于2月8月发推文说后悔投票给特朗普时，一个女人告诉他，绝不会原谅他为特朗普投票之举。
Mr. Watson, who is gay and sits on the board of an Indianapolis organization for gay rights, said he had voted for Democratic presidential candidates, including President Barack Obama, in the past. But, as he put it to one critic on Twitter, “I would rather have gouged my eyes out and only drank well vodka then to vote for Hillary Clinton.”
身为同性恋的沃森是印第安纳波利斯一个同性恋权益团体的管理委员会成员，他说自己以前给民主党总统候选人投过票，其中包括贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统。但正如他在Twitter上对一名批评者所言，“我宁愿挖出自己的双眼，并猛灌一通伏特加，也不会把票投给希拉里·克林顿。”
In an interview, Mr. Watson, 40, said he was never wild about Mr. Trump — “I really thought he was going to fizzle out and drop out” — and now regrets his decision to vote for him “as the lesser of two evils” after watching some of the decisions he’s made early in his presidency. Mr. Watson said he recently called the office of Senator Todd Young, Republican of Indiana, to urge him not to vote for Betsy DeVos, a wealthy Republican donor, to lead the Education Department.
现年40岁的沃森接受采访时表示，他从未疯狂崇拜特朗普——“我当初真的认为他会落败并退出”——看到特朗普上任伊始做出的某些决定，他现在很后悔自己当初本着“两害相权取其轻”的想法为其投票。沃森说他最近给印第安那州共和党参议员托德·杨(Todd Young)的办公室打了电话，敦促杨不要投票赞同由富有的共和党捐赠人贝茜·德沃斯(Betsy DeVos)领导教育部。
Mr. Watson has not heard back yet. Ms. DeVos is now education secretary.
沃森尚未收到回音。而德沃斯眼下已经当上了教育部长。
“It’s just a bunch of political stuff to get their friends into office,” Mr. Watson said of that appointment.
“不就是政治上的那些事儿嘛，大力启用自己的朋友，”沃森谈及这一任命时说。
Not everyone would characterize their feelings as regretful. John Tyler, the supporter in North Carolina who told Mr. Trump he was acting like a “baby” on Twitter, said in an email that he still supported the president.
并非所有人都会把自己的心情归结为遗憾。北卡罗莱纳州那个在Twitter上艾特特朗普、说其行事像个“孩子”的支持者约翰·泰勒(John Tyler)在电邮中表示，他仍然支持总统。
“Your paper and other media can’t stand Trump,” wrote Mr. Tyler, a retired real estate agent who now sings Elvis songs and gospel music on YouTube. “I voted for him for one reason: His ego is so large that he cannot fail to implement his agendas promised.”
“你们报纸还有其他一些媒体不会支持特朗普，”从房地产经纪人的岗位上退休，目前在YouTube上唱猫王的歌、演绎福音音乐的泰勒说。“我为他投票只有一个理由：他有着非常强的自尊心，不会不去推进自己承诺过的议程。”