BANGKOK — The Thai government is facing growing anger among its own supporters as well as protests by an emboldened opposition over a far-reaching amnesty bill that could allow former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra to return home by wiping clean corruption cases against him.
曼谷——因为一项影响深远的特赦法案，泰国政府正面临着支持者与日俱增的愤怒以及声势越来越壮大的抗议活动。根据这项法案，前总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)所涉的腐败案可被全面撤销，让他得以回国。
The amnesty bill, proposed by Mr. Thaksin’s party, easily passed one house of the bicameral Parliament on Friday.
周五，由他信所在政党提出的特赦提案在泰国两院制议会的下议院轻松获得通过。
Mr. Thaksin, a billionaire tycoon, was ousted by the military in a September 2006 coup and later sentenced in absentia to two years in prison for abuse of power. He has lived abroad in self-imposed exile since 2008. His sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, is now prime minister, and the proposed law offers a broad amnesty for actions and people related to the coup and its aftermath.
2006年9月，坐拥亿万财富的大亨他信在军方发动的政变中被迫下台，后因滥用职权被缺席判处两年有期徒刑。自2008年以来，他信一直在海外过着自我放逐的生活。他的妹妹英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)是现任总理。前述特赦法案规定，将对那场政变以及事后余波影响的人和行为进行大范围的赦免。
If passed, the law might also restore to Mr. Thaksin part of his fortune that a court seized in 2010 on the grounds that the money was illegally obtained through his political influence.
如果获得通过，这项法律可能还会归还他信的部分财产。2010年，一家法院以这些钱是他信借助政治影响力的非法所得为由，扣留了那一部分财产。
“There’s no other place in the world where this would happen,” Abhisit Vejjajiva, a former prime minister and the leader of the opposition Democrat Party, told thousands of protesters who gathered in Bangkok on Saturday night. “The government is saying you can commit corruption and it will not be considered an offense and you won’t be punished.”
“世界上没有其他哪个地方会发生这种事情，”前总理、反对派政党民主党(Democrat Party)领袖阿披实·维乍集瓦(Abhisit Vejjajiva)周六晚上对聚集在曼谷的数千名抗议者说，“政府正在说，你可以腐败，这不会被视为犯罪，你不会受到惩罚。”
After three years of relative stability and calm in Thai politics, the uproar over the amnesty bill threatens a return to the deadlock and turmoil that plagued the country in the years after the 2006 coup.
在保持了三年相对稳定和平静的政局后，这项特赦法案引发的骚乱可能会让泰国回到僵持和动荡之中。在2006年政变之后的那些年里，泰国深受此累。
Perhaps more significant than the campaign to derail the bill by Mr. Thaksin’s traditional foes, including the Democrat Party, is the strong criticism from across Thai society, including a highly unusual degree of near unanimity against the amnesty bill by the country’s print media.
他信的宿敌，包括民主党在内，已经发起了一场阻止该法案的运动。或许比这场运动更重要的是来自泰国全社会的强烈指责，其中包括平面媒体对该法案近乎一致的反对，达到如此统一的意见是不寻常的。
Newspapers that were seen as sympathetic to Mr. Thaksin and the government have published strongly worded editorials against the bill.
被认为同情他信和政府的报纸刊登了措辞强硬的社论，反对该特赦法案。
Members of the movement that helped propel Mr. Thaksin’s party back to power in the June 2011 elections have also heavily criticized the bill.
一些曾在2011年6月的选举中出力帮助他信所在政党夺回权力的人，也强烈谴责这项法案。
Many leading members of the so-called Red Shirt movement, who shut down parts of Bangkok in 2010 in the name of Mr. Thaksin and his policies, say they are stunned by the breadth of the amnesty law, especially proposals to pardon those who ordered the military crackdown against the Red Shirts.
“红衫军”运动的许多领导人物表示，他们被特赦法案涉及的范围震惊了，尤其是宽恕那些下令军方镇压红衫军的人的提议。2010年，这些人曾以他信及其政策的名义关闭了曼谷部分地区。
The leader of a Red Shirt faction in Bangkok, Sombat Boonngamanong, said in a newspaper interview published Sunday that Mr. Thaksin’s party, Pheu Thai, was using this “chaotic moment” in Thai politics to include the corruption cases in the amnesty bill.
红衫军曼谷分支领导人陈廷发(Sombat Boonngamanong)在一家报纸周日刊登的采访中说，他信所在的政党为泰党(Pheu Thai)正在利用泰国政局的这一“混乱时机”，把腐败案件囊括进特赦法案中去。
“I think this is such a shame,” Mr. Sombat said. “It’s unbelievable that Pheu Thai is so brazen to do this.”
“我觉得太丢人了，”陈廷发说，“为泰党居然能厚颜无耻地这么做，真是难以置信。”
Mr. Sombat said the amnesty bill was particularly hurtful to idealists who believed that Mr. Thaksin was a champion of democracy.
陈廷发还表示，特赦法案尤其会伤害到那些相信他信是民主卫士的理想主义者。
“We boarded a train bound for democracy station, but then we suddenly made a turn to Thaksin station,” he said. “It’s over.”
“我们登上了一列驶向民主站的列车，但我们却突然调转车头，奔他信站而去，”他说，“没希望了。”
Mr. Sombat said he would help lead protests against the bill separate from the protest organized by the Democrat Party.
陈延发说自己会出手发动反对该特赦议案的抗议活动，和民主党组织的抗议分头进行。
To become law, the amnesty bill still needs the approval of the Thai Senate and the signature of the king, and it must clear expected judicial challenges.
若要成为法律，这项特赦法案还必须得到上议院的批准和国王的签署。法案还必须清除预料之中的司法挑战。
But even if it goes no further, the bill appears to have damaged Mr. Thaksin’s still formidable political machinery. Nuttawut Saikua, a Red Shirt leader and a member of Parliament from Mr. Thaksin’s party, said sentiment among Thaksin supporters was “cracking into pieces.”
但即便不能走得更远，该法案也似乎已经破坏了他信依然强大的政治机器。与他信同属一个政党的红衫军领导人、议会议员纳塔乌特(Nattawut Saikua)说，他信支持者的情绪正在“瓦解”。
Mr. Thaksin has defended the bill as a new start for the country. “We need to reset to zero and move forward,” he said in an interview in Singapore with Post Today, a Thai-language newspaper.
他信为法案辩护，称它是这个国家新的开始。“我们必须清零然后前进，”他在新加坡接受泰语报纸《今日邮报》(Post Today)的采访时说。
But in a measure of the anger over the amnesty bill, Mr. Thaksin’s son, Panthongtae Shinawatra, criticized the bill in a Facebook posting last week. Mr. Panthongtae, who many believe is being groomed for a political career, said that he wanted his father to return “more than anything” but that he and his two sisters were opposed to a “blanket amnesty,” especially for the “murderers” of protesters in 2010.
但他信的儿子潘通泰(Panthongtae Shinawatra)上周在Facebook上发帖谴责特赦法案，以表达他对此事的愤怒。潘通泰称他“比谁都更希望”父亲回国，但自己和两个妹妹反对进行“一揽子赦免”，尤其是对2010年杀害抗议者的那些“凶手”。许多人认为，潘通泰正在为自己的政治生涯做准备。
In its current wording, the bill would clear Mr. Thaksin in a number of cases that were investigated by a committee appointed by the leaders of the 2006 coup. The cases include charges that Mr. Thaksin directed the government to provide loans to Myanmar for a deal that involved his telecommunications company.
根据当前版本，特赦法案将撤销他信在许多案件中受到的指控。2006年那场政变的领导人委任了一个委员会调查这些案件，其中包括指控他信下令政府为缅甸提供贷款，以完成一项有自己的电信公司参与的交易。
The amnesty law could also rescind a major corruption conviction in a case involving bid-rigging for firefighting equipment. That case had no obvious connection to the military coup but was among those investigated by the committee.
如果成为法律，这一特赦法还会撤销一项重要的有罪判决。这起涉及操纵消防设备招投标的案件，与那次军事政变没有明显关联，但也属前述委员会的调查之列。