SEOUL, South Korea — The man drove Ju Chan-yang to a mountain overlooking North Korea’s border with China. He looked around, making sure they were alone. Then he dialed his Chinese cellphone and handed it to her.
韩国首尔——那个男子驾车把朱灿阳(Ju Chan-yang)带到俯瞰中朝边界的山上。他环顾四周，确保附近没有他人后，用自己的中国手机拨通了电话，把手机递给了她。
On the other end was Ms. Ju’s father in South Korea. It was the first time they had heard each other’s voice since her father fled there two years earlier.
手机的另一端是朱女士在韩国的父亲。自从她父亲两年前出逃后，这是他们第一次听到对方的声音。
“We barely spoke 10 minutes before the connection was suddenly lost,” Ms. Ju, 25, said, describing the 2009 episode during a recent interview. “My father lost sleep that night, fearing that I might have been caught by North Korean soldiers.”
“电话突然断掉之前，我们通了不到10分钟的话，”25岁的朱女士在最近的一次采访中，描述那段2009年的往事时说。“我父亲那天晚上失眠了，他担心我可能是被朝鲜士兵抓走了。”
Smuggled-in Chinese mobile phones, which enable North Koreans near the border with China to gain access to its mobile networks, are an increasingly vital bridge between the North and the outside world.
从中国走私进来的移动电话让朝鲜人在离中国边界不远的地方能上中国的移动网络，这些手机已成为朝鲜与外部世界之间越来越重要的桥梁。
They connect North Koreans to relatives who have defected abroad, mostly to South Korea. North Koreans also flee their repressive country, as Ms. Ju eventually did, through a smuggling operation arranged by mobile phones.
这些手机把朝鲜人与他们主要是在韩国的脱北亲戚们联系起来。而且，正如朱女士最终做的那样，朝鲜人也通过一个用手机联系的走私网逃离他们的专制国家。
But the bridge has become increasingly precarious under Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.
但是，在朝鲜领导人金正恩的统治下，这个桥梁已经变得越来越危险。
In 2014, Mr. Kim ordered his government to tighten “mosquito nets” to block foreign information from slipping in and prevent his people from communicating with outsiders and fleeing. The number of North Korean defectors arriving in South Korea, once as high as 2,914 in 2009, plummeted to 1,276 last year.
2014年，金正恩下令政府收紧“蚊帐”，阻止国外信息渗入，也防止他的人民与外界联系或出逃。从朝鲜逃到韩国的人数去年骤降至1276人，而2009年的脱北者人数曾一度高达2914人。
Mr. Kim also strengthened a crackdown on mobile phones smuggled from China, deploying more soldiers and modern surveillance devices along the border to jam signals or trace them to those using the banned phones.
金正恩还加强了对来自中国的走私手机的打击，在边境部署了更多的士兵和现代化监视设备，或将手机信号屏蔽掉、或追踪信号，找到那些使用违禁手机的人。
In a 57-page report titled “Connection Denied,” Amnesty International said this month that North Koreans caught making calls on the phones could face criminal charges. If they call someone in South Korea or other countries labeled enemies, they could face charges of treason as well as incarceration in prison camps.
国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)在本月一份题为《连接被拒》(Connection Denied)的57页报告中说，因使用这些手机打电话被抓的朝鲜人可能面临刑事指控。如果他们给韩国或其他被列为敌对国家的人打电话，他们可能面临叛国罪的指控，以及遭受监禁。
“Nothing can ever justify people being thrown in detention for trying to fulfill a basic human need — to connect with their family and friends,” said Arnold Fang, the author of the report, which relied on interviews with experts and 17 recent defectors from North Korea.
“与自己的家人和朋友联系是人类的基本需求，没有任何理由能解释把试图满足这种需求的人投入监狱的做法，”报告的作者方欣浩(Arnold Fang)说。该报告的内容基于对专家以及最近从朝鲜叛逃的17人的采访。
Mr. Kim’s clampdown on phones linked to Chinese mobile networks also heightens the risk for those who help bring news about his totalitarian country to the outside world. North Koreans use the phones to talk or send text messages and even photos to reporters and activists in South Korea and elsewhere.
金正恩对接入中国移动网络手机的镇压，也增加了那些帮助将自己极权国家的消息带给外部世界的人所面临的风险。朝鲜人使用这些手机与韩国和其他地方的记者及活动人士通话，或给他们发短信、甚至发照片。
If they are caught by officials from the North, bribes are virtually the only way to avoid prison, or worse.
如果他们被朝鲜的官员发现，行贿几乎是避免入狱、或受到更糟惩罚的唯一途径。
“When my sources call me, they shut the doors of the house and keep a lookout outside,” said Kang Mi-jin, a reporter for Daily NK, a news website based in Seoul that focuses on the North. “I tell them to have a place to quickly hide their phone and carry bribe money, usually 2,000 Chinese yuan, with them, always. It can decide whether they live or die.”
“当我的消息源给我打电话时，他们把房门关上，还在房子外面放哨，”总部设在首尔的、关注北方消息的新闻网站《朝鲜内况》(Daily NK)记者康美锦(Kang Mi-jin)说。“我告诉他们，要有一个能迅速隐藏自己手机的地方，并永远随身带着贿赂款，通常是2000元中国人民币。这可能是决定他们死活的东西。”
Thanks to her sources in North Korea, Ms. Kang, 48, broke some of the most talked-about news on Mr. Kim’s secretive government in recent years. She was the first to report that Mr. Kim’s wife, Ri Sol-ju, was pregnant in 2012 and that the leader was limping in 2014 because of ankle surgery.
多亏她在朝鲜的这些消息源，现年48岁的康女士得以作出一些近年来被广泛谈论的突破性报道，这些报道都是关于金正恩秘密政府的。她是第一位报道金正恩妻子李雪主2012年怀孕的人，也是第一位报道金正恩2014年由于一次脚踝手术走路一瘸一拐的人。
“The people I talked to in the North are thirsty for outside news — asking as many questions of me as I do of them,” said Ms. Kang, herself a defector. “They want to know how defectors live in the South, how much a South Korean worker makes a month, whether it’s really true that South Korean housewives have so many pieces of clothes they throw some away.”
“那些和我通话的朝鲜人渴望得到外面的消息，他们问我的问题，和我问他们的一样多，”康女士说，她本人也是一名脱北者。“他们想了解脱北者在韩国的生活，韩国工人每月挣多少钱，还想知道真像听说的那样，韩国主妇的衣服如此之多，以至于她们需要将一些扔掉吗。”
North Korea runs its own mobile phone network. Started in 2008 as a joint venture with the Egyptian company Orascom, the network, Koryolink, has more than three million subscribers. But it does not allow international calls. For ordinary citizens, landline calls are monitored and mostly confined to domestic connections.
朝鲜有自己运营的移动电话网络，叫Koryolink，是2008年开始的一个与埃及Orascom公司合资的网络，拥有300多万名用户。但该网不允许打国际长途电话。普通朝鲜市民的座机电话受监听，而且大多局限于国内通话。
Internet access is also restricted to foreign visitors and a select elite. North Koreans are also not permitted to exchange letters, emails or telephone calls with people in South Korea.
互联网的使用也仅限于外国游客和少数精英。朝鲜人也不能与韩国人通信、交换电子邮件或通电话。
Thus, for ordinary North Koreans, virtually the only means of communicating directly with outsiders is to travel to the border with China and use cellphones that have been smuggled in.
因此，对普通朝鲜人来说，直接与外界沟通的几乎唯一的办法就是到与中国接壤的地方，用走私进来的手机。
North Korean traders began using them during a famine in the 1990s to help illegally bring food and other goods from China.
朝鲜商人在20世纪90年代的一次饥荒时期开始用这些手机，帮助把来自中国的食品和其他商品非法运进来。
But North Koreans who have fled to the South since the famine also started hiring smugglers to send Chinese phones and SIM cards to relatives left behind. Defectors and Amnesty International said the illicit trade in Chinese mobile phones in the North was growing.
但是，自饥荒以来逃到韩国的脱北者们也开始雇用走私商贩，把中国的手机和SIM卡带给他们留在朝鲜的亲人。脱北者和国际特赦组织表示，朝鲜的中国手机非法贸易正在增长。
In 2008, Choi Hyun-joon, 51, a North Korean defector in Seoul, hired a middleman in China. The middleman called his contact in North Korea on his Chinese cellphone and told him to find Mr. Choi’s daughter, Choi Ji-woo, in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.
51岁的崔炫俊(Choi Hyun-joon)是一名脱北者，居住在首尔。2008年，他在中国雇佣了一个中间人。这名中间人用中国手机打电话给住在朝鲜的关系人，让他在朝鲜首都平壤寻找崔炫俊的女儿崔智友(Choi Ji-woo)。
It took two months for the middleman to get his daughter to the border for a call with Mr. Choi. He first had to forge a travel permit for her; in North Korea, travel from town to town is closely monitored.
中间人花了两个月的时间，把崔炫俊的女儿带到边境与他通电话。他首先必须为她伪造一个通行证；在朝鲜，从一个城镇到另一个城镇的通行受到了当局的严密监视。
Later, Mr. Choi wired his daughter 8 million won, or $6,700, in a transaction made possible by the Chinese mobile phone. Each year, defectors in South Korea send millions of dollars to their families in the North through intermediaries in China and North Korea who use Chinese mobile phones to arrange the transactions.
后来，崔炫俊给女儿汇去800万韩元（约合人民币4.3万元），如果没有中国手机，这是无法做到的。每一年，居住在韩国的脱北者都通过中国和朝鲜的中间人，将数以百万美元计的钱送到朝鲜的家人那里，中间人用中国手机来安排这些交易。
By the time the money reached her, the sum had shrunk by half, the rest deducted as “brokers’ fees” for the middlemen.
女儿收到这笔钱的时候，金额也缩水了一半，其余部分被扣作中间人的“中介费”。
“You lose 30 to 50 percent of the money, but still it is the only way to send money to our loved ones,” said Mr. Choi, who managed to get his daughter out in 2010.
“你的钱会被吃掉30%到50%，但这仍然是把钱送到亲人那里的唯一途径。”崔炫俊说。他设法在2010年帮女儿逃出了朝鲜。
Ms. Ju remembered the day that the middleman her father had hired appeared at a workers’ restaurant in Chongjin, a port city in northeast North Korea, where she was working in 2009.
朱还记得父亲聘请的中间人找到她的那天。当时是2009年，在朝鲜东北部港口城市清津，他出现在她工作的一个工人餐厅里。
He discreetly showed Ms. Ju a code word only she and her parents knew, a combination of her and her mother’s names.
他谨慎地给朱看了一个暗号，是她和母亲名字的组合，只有她和父母知道这个暗号。
“I knew I could trust him,” Ms. Ju said. “He said I should go to the border to make a phone call with my parents in the South.”
“我知道可以信任他，”朱说。“他说我应该去边界，给我在韩国的父母打个电话。”
In the summer of 2010, her father called her to the Chinese border for the last time. There, she was handed over to a North Korean guard who was part of a smuggling operation. He helped her swim across a rain-swollen river to China. Once there, he used his cellphone to call another middleman to come pick her up — and pay his fee.
2010年夏天，她父亲最后一次把她叫到中国边境。在那里，她被移交给了一名参与脱北交易的朝鲜士兵。在他的帮助下，她穿过了一条因下雨而涨水的河流，游到了中国。一到那里，他就用自己的手机打电话，让另一个中间人来接她——并支付他的费用。