The Magus of magical realism, Gabriel García Márquez — who died on Thursday at his home in Mexico City, at the age of 87 — used his fecund imagination and exuberant sleight of hand to conjure the miraculous in his fiction: plagues of insomnia and forgetfulness, a cluster of magical grapes containing the secret of death, an all-night rain of yellow blossoms, a swamp of lilies oozing blood, a Spanish galleon marooned in a Latin American jungle, cattle born bearing the brand of their owner.
魔幻现实主义的魔法师加夫列尔·加西亚·马尔克斯(Gabriel García Márquez)星期四在墨西哥城家中逝世，享年87岁。他以丰沛的想象力与华丽狡黠的技法，在小说中营造出种种不可思议的奇景：失眠症与健忘症成为流行疾疫、承载死亡秘密的魔法葡萄、无数黄色花朵整夜从天而降、大片渗出鲜血的百合花、被困在拉美丛林里的西班牙大型帆船，还有一出生就带有主人烙印的牛犊。
Such images were not simply tokens of his endlessly inventive mind, but testaments to his all-embracing artistic vision, which recognized the extraordinary in the mundane, the familiar in the fantastic. In novels like “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” “The Autumn of the Patriarch” and “Love in the Time of Cholera,” Mr. García Márquez mythologized the history of an entire continent, while at the same time creating a Rabelaisian portrait of the human condition as a febrile dream in which love and suffering and redemption endlessly cycle back on themselves on a Möbius strip in time.
这样的画面不仅显示出他无穷尽的创作才思，也证明他包罗万象的艺术想象，能在庸常中捕捉特异之处，在奇幻中发现似曾相识。在《百年孤独》(One Hundred Years of Solitude)、《族长的没落》(The Autumn of the Patriarc)和《霍乱时期的爱情》(Love in the Time of Cholera)等小说中，加西亚·马尔克斯把一整块大陆的历史书写为神话，与此同时又为人类状况勾勒出一幅拉伯雷式(Rabelaisian)的图像，展现出一个狂热的梦，爱与痛苦乃至救赎无休止地循环往复，如同时光中的莫比乌斯环。
Transactions between the real and surreal, the ordinary and the fabulous, of course, are a signature device of the magical realism that flourished in the second half of the 20th century in places like Latin America, where the horrors and dislocations of history frequently exceeded the reach of logic, reason and conventional narrative techniques. What he called the “outsized reality” of Latin America’s history — including the period of civil strife in Colombia known as La Violencia, which claimed the lives of as many as 300,000 during the late 1940s and ’50s — demanded a means of expression beyond the rationalities of old-fashioned narrative realism.
当然，现实与超现实、日常生活与寓言的交织，是20世纪下半叶拉丁美洲等地盛行的魔幻现实主义的标志性手法。在当时的拉丁美洲，历史的恐怖与错乱往往超出逻辑、理性与传统叙事技巧范畴。譬如有“暴力”(La Violencia)之称的哥伦比亚内战，在20世纪40年代末至50年代令30万人丧生，是马尔克斯口中的拉丁美洲“特大号现实”之一，这样的现实要求一种超越传统现实主义叙事理性的表达方式。
As Mr. García Márquez’s memoir “Living to Tell the Tale” made clear, however, his fascination with the phantasmagorical was as rooted in his own childhood and family history as it was in the civil wars and political upheavals of his country. His grandfather painted the walls of his workshop white so that the young boy, nicknamed Gabo, would have an inviting surface on which to draw and fantasize; his grandmother spoke of the visions she experienced everyday — the rocking chair that rocked alone, “the scent of jasmines from the garden” that “was like an invisible ghost.”
不过，加西亚·马尔克斯在回忆录《活着就是为了讲故事》(Living to Tell the Tale)中说得很清楚，他对这些梦幻场景的迷恋源自童年和家族史，当时正值他的祖国内战与政治剧变。祖父把自家工坊的墙壁刷成白色，绰号盖博(Gabo)的小马尔克斯可以用这个诱人的墙面随手涂画，肆意畅想；祖母每天都给他讲自己经历的那些幻相——没人推动，摇椅自己摇来晃去；“花园里茉莉的香气好像看不见的鬼魂一样”。
His childhood home was in the remote town of Aracataca, a Wild West sort of place, subject to dry hurricanes, killing droughts, sudden floods, plagues of locusts and “a leaf storm” of fortune hunters, drawn by the so-called banana fever fomented there by the arrival of the United Fruit Company. Aracataca would provide the seeds for the imaginary town of Macondo in “Solitude,” just as Mr. García Márquez’s own sprawling family would help inspire the story of the prolific and amazing Buendía clan memorialized with such ardor in that novel. Macondo is a place where the miraculous and the monstrous are equally part of daily life, a place where the boundaries between reality and dreams are blurred. It is, at once, a state of mind, a mythologized version of Latin America and a reimagining of the author’s boyhood town through the prism of memory and nostalgia.
童年时代，马尔克斯住在僻远的小镇阿拉卡塔卡，那里如同荒蛮的美国西部，干燥的龙卷风、折磨人的旱灾、突如其来的洪水、蝗灾，还有“风卷落叶”般众多追求财富的人，他们被联合水果公司带来的所谓“香蕉狂潮”吸引而来。阿拉卡塔卡为《百年孤独》中虚构的马孔多镇提供了灵感来源；而加西亚·马尔克斯自己的大家庭也启发他写下了书中多子多孙、令人惊异的布恩地亚(Buendía)家族，他在那部小说中以饱满的热情对这个家族进行歌颂。奇迹和骇人听闻的事情都是马孔多日常生活的一部分，在这座小镇上，现实与梦幻的边界模糊不清。马孔多是一种心态，是一个神话版本的拉丁美洲，也是作者通过回忆和怀旧对童年家乡的再度想象。
For that matter, the magic in Mr. García Márquez’s work always remained grounded in a carefully observed reality — a skill honed by his early years as a reporter. From that start, Mr. García Márquez slowly developed his own distinctive voice — a voice with the sinuous rhythms of Faulkner and Joyce, the metaphorical reach of Kafka, the dreamlike imagery of Borges. In later years, the fevered flights of fantasy that distinguished “Solitude” and “Patriarch” would give way to a somewhat more muted sorcery, an appreciation — demonstrated in works like “Love in the Time of Cholera” and “Of Love and Other Demons” — of the everyday, combined with a recognition that the extremes of human love and suffering could be found in the seemingly most ordinary of lives.
就此而言，加西亚·马尔克斯作品中的魔力始终建立在对现实的细心观察基础之上——这种能力是他在早年的记者生涯中磨练出来的。从一开始，加西亚·马尔克斯便慢慢发展出自己独特的声音，有着福克纳与乔伊斯式的婉转节奏、卡夫卡式的隐喻手法，以及博尔赫斯式的梦幻想象。后来，《百年孤独》和《族长的没落》中特有的天马行空的狂热幻想渐渐变成了更温和的魔法，一种对日常生活的心领神会，认识到人类爱与痛苦的极端都可以在看似平凡的人生中找到——这些都体现在《霍乱时期的爱情》与《爱情和其他魔鬼》(Of Love and Other Demons)等作品之中。
“Love in the Time of Cholera” was a sort of Proustian meditation on time and an anatomy of love in all its forms — giddy adolescent love, mature love, romantic love, sexual love, spiritual love, even love so virulent it resembles cholera in its capacity to inflict pain. At the same time, it was also a kind of tribute to his own parents’ courtship and marriage.
《霍乱时期的爱情》是对时间的普鲁斯特式冥想，以及对各种形式的爱情的剖析——年少轻狂的爱、成熟的爱、浪漫的爱、性爱、精神之爱，甚至如同霍乱一般致命、给人带来巨大痛苦的爱。此外，这本书也献给他父母的恋爱与婚姻。
The personal gave way to the historical in some novels that dealt on an epic level with the tortuous history of Latin America. “The Autumn of the Patriarch” created a hallucinatory portrait of a tyrant who seems like a mythic composite of every dictator to strong-arm his way to power on that continent: a once-feted hero, who sells out his country to the gringos, murders his opponents, rewards himself with medals, unimaginable wealth and the modest title “General of the Universe,” and who ends up completely isolated, discovered dead in his palace, pecked at by vultures.
他的一些小说将拉丁美洲扭曲的历史上升到史诗般的高度，其中的个人体验也让位给历史性。《族长的没落》为一个暴君描绘出梦幻般的肖像，他似乎是这片大陆上所有依靠铁腕获得权力的暴君的神话综合体：一个一度受到拥戴的英雄，把国家出卖给外国佬，杀害反对者，用勋章、难以想象的巨额财富和“宇宙将军”之类谦逊的头衔奖励自己，最后在自己的宫殿中孤独地死去，尸体被兀鹰啄食。
As for “The General in His Labyrinth,” it performed a kind of free-form improvisation on the life of the 19th-century revolutionary Simón Bolívar, who becomes in Mr. García Márquez’s telling, a close relative of many of his fictional heroes — a spoiled dreamer, torn between martyrdom and hedonism, extravagant ambitions and crashing disillusion.
《迷宫中的将军》(The General in His Labyrinth)如同一种自由即兴创作，描写了19世纪革命家西蒙·玻利瓦尔(Simón Bolívar)的人生，在加西亚·马尔克斯笔下，玻利瓦尔成了他小说中诸多虚构主人公的近亲——一个被宠坏的梦想家，在殉道与享乐、宏大的野心与彻底的幻灭之间挣扎。