People tend to think that the line between comedy and hard news was breached first by Jon Stewart, host of “The Daily Show.”
人们通常认为严肃新闻和喜剧秀之间的界线最初是由《每日秀》(The Daily Show)的主持人乔恩·斯图尔特(Jon Stewart)打破的。
But actually it was David Frost.
但是实际上这个人是大卫·弗罗斯特(David Frost)。
Mr. Frost, who died on Saturday, moved silkily from sketch comedy and political satire to serious interviews with politicians and newsmakers, and most famously a series of conversations with Richard M. Nixon in 1977 that lasted 28 hours 45 minutes. At his peak, Mr. Frost was a one-stop-shopping television star: a newsman with a flair for show business, an entertainer with a thoughtful side, and at times a brazen schmoozer with undeniable sophistication and charm.
周六去世（此处指2013年8月30日——编注）的弗罗斯特可以温和地从喜剧小品和政治讽刺转向对政治家和新闻人物的严肃采访，其中最著名的是1977年和理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)的一系列谈话，总时长为28小时45分钟。巅峰时期的弗罗斯特是个全能电视明星：一个有娱乐天分的新闻记者，一个有深刻见地的演艺人员，有时还是一个厚脸皮的话痨，具有不可否认的精明与魅力。
People assume that Barbara Walters was the first television journalist to become a Hollywood-style celebrity, but no one had as much finesse and gusto for mingling with the rich and powerful as Mr. Frost, who married the daughter of a duke and was knighted in 1993. He shared Ms. Walters’s tensile knack for moving from newsrooms and ballrooms, but he commuted from London to New York, to host “The David Frost Show” in 1969 when Ms. Walters still shared a desk and predawn wake-up calls with her co-hosts on “Today.”
人们认为芭芭拉·沃尔特斯(Barbara Walters)是第一个成为好莱坞式名人的电视记者，但是没人像弗罗斯特那样具有与富人和权贵打成一片的技巧和热情。弗罗斯特娶了一个公爵的女儿，1993年被授予爵士称号。他和沃尔特斯一样具有在新闻编辑室和娱乐演播室之间自由切换的适应能力，但是1969年他从伦敦来到纽约主持《大卫·弗罗斯特秀》(The David Frost Show)的时候，沃尔特斯还和《今天》(Today)的联合主播共用一张办公桌，共享黎明前的叫醒电话。
In some ways he was an Oxbridge version of Larry King. Mr. Frost gently elicited answers rather than bullying his guests, and his dandyish striped shirts were almost as much of a trademark as Mr. King’s suspenders.
从某些方面看，他是牛津和剑桥版的拉里·金(Larry King)。弗罗斯特温和地引出答案，而不是威逼嘉宾，他时髦的条纹衬衫几乎和拉里·金的吊带裤一样是一种标志。
Like Mr. King, who after retiring from CNN created his own Web-only talk show on Hulu, Mr. Frost never tired of the limelight. When his career in Britain slowed down, Mr. Frost didn’t. He signed on with Al Jazeera English in 2006 while he was still the host of “Through the Keyhole,” a popular game show that he helped create. (After a tour of a celebrity’s house, a panel of guests tries to guess the owner.)
金从CNN退休后在葫芦网(Hulu)创建了自己只在网上播放的谈话节目，像金一样，弗罗斯特从未对聚光灯下的生涯感到厌倦。当弗罗斯特在英国的事业开始衰落时，他也没有厌倦。2006年他与半岛电视台英语频道签约，当时他还在主持《透过锁眼》(Through the Keyhole)，这是他帮忙开创的一个热门游戏节目（在一个名人的家里参观一圈之后，一群嘉宾开始猜测房子的主人）。
At that time, the Qatar-based Al Jazeera network was treated as an enemy by the Bush administration. Yet Mr. Frost’s first guest was Tony Blair, then the British prime minister, who told him that the Iraq war was up to that point “pretty much of a disaster.” That kind of headline-making “get” is the best explanation for why Mr. Frost decided to risk his reputation on Al Jazeera. He couldn’t resist the international showcase — so many time zones — or a chance to do the long, far-reaching interviews that have fallen out of favor in the age of channel surfing, Web clips and multitasking. No opportunity went untapped. When he died of a heart attack, he was scheduled to give a talk on the ocean liner Queen Elizabeth.
那时候，卡塔尔的半岛电视台被布什政府视为敌台。但是弗罗斯特的第一个嘉宾是当时的英国首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)，布莱尔说伊拉克战争已经“差不多”变成了“一场灾难”。这种能成为头条新闻的“收获”最能解释为什么弗罗斯特决定冒着名誉受损的风险供职于半岛电视台。他无法抗拒这个国际大舞台——那么多时区的人都在收看该电视台的节目；他也无法抗拒进行长时间深入访谈的机会——如今人们喜欢不断换台，观看网上的视频片段，同时处理好几件事情，所以这样的访谈已经失宠了。他没有放过任何机会。他死于心脏病时，正计划在“伊丽莎白女王号”远洋邮轮上发表讲话。
Mr. Frost, who had his own production company, Paradine, was always astute about the business of television, a little like Merv Griffin, an entertainer who was also a media mogul and the creator of “Jeopardy!”
弗罗斯特拥有自己的制作公司Paradine，他经营电视生意总是很有办法，这有点像梅夫·格里芬(Merv Griffin)，后者不仅是个演艺人员，还是个媒体大亨，开创了《危险边缘》(Jeopardy)节目。
Mr. Frost didn’t just interview Nixon, he turned that encounter into an enterprise, paying that former president $600,000 (and a share on the profits) so he could package, produce and finance the five-part spectacle. The major American broadcast networks declined to broadcast it, worried about “checkbook journalism,” so he syndicated it to local stations all over the United States and also internationally. As Ron Howard, who directed the 2008 movie “Frost/Nixon,” put it, Mr. Frost created “the first fourth network.”
弗罗斯特不仅采访了尼克松，还把访谈变成了一个产业，他付给了那位前总统60万美元（以及收益分成），以便他能够打包、制作这个由五部分组成的精彩节目，并掌握它的财政收益。美国的几大广播电视网拒绝播放该节目，担心被指责为“支票簿新闻”，所以他把它同时卖给了美国各地的地方电视台以及世界各地的电视台。就像电影《弗罗斯特/尼克松》(Frost/Nixon, 2008)的导演朗·霍华德(Ron Howard)说的那样，弗罗斯特开创了“第一个第四电视网”。
In the movie, which was based on the Peter Morgan play, Michael Sheen portrays Mr. Frost as glib and agreeable on the surface, but also shallow and desperate for approval and affirmation. If insecurity was his Rosebud, it didn’t bleed into his on-camera performances. He handled Nixon cordially but rather sternly, evidently anxious to not appear too chummy or sympathetic. He will always be remembered for coaxing the disgraced president to apologize to the American people and also for leading Nixon into a staggering gaffe: “Well, when the president does it, that means that it is not illegal.”
那部电影是根据彼得·摩根(Peter Morgan)的戏剧改编的，迈克尔·希恩(Michael Sheen)把弗罗斯特演绎成了一个表面上口齿伶俐、和蔼可亲，而实际上渴望得到赞赏和肯定的肤浅者。如果不安感是他的玫瑰花蕾，那它并不会绽放为在摄像机前的精彩表演。他诚恳而严厉地对待尼克松，明显是不想让人感觉他们很亲密或者他对尼克松抱有同情心。他哄劝这位不光彩的总统向美国人民道歉，还引导尼克松说了一句令人震惊的失态的话：“呃，如果是总统来做的话，那就不是非法的。”
But the Nixon conversation is not the best measure of Mr. Frost’s aplomb and dexterity as an interviewer. Nixon was his own Scheherazade, weaving political platitudes into inky, self-pitying and strangely eloquent soliloquies that needed little interruption.
但是跟尼克松的谈话并不最能体现弗罗斯特作为一个采访者的沉着与机敏。尼克松像《天方夜谭》里的苏丹新娘，把政治陈词滥调与阴郁自怜、异常雄辩的自言自语相结合，几乎不需要人打断。
One of the weirder interviews on “The David Frost Show” was with Yoko Ono and John Lennon in 1972. Ms. Ono did the talking, mostly about herself; Lennon agreed only to join her in singing protest songs they wrote together, including “Attica State.”
更怪诞的一个采访是1972年在《大卫·弗罗斯特秀》上对小野洋子和约翰·列侬(John Lennon)的采访。只有小野洋子在说话，大部分是讲她自己；列侬只同意跟她一起演唱他们共同创作的抗议歌曲，其中包括《阿提卡州》(Attica State)。
When Ms. Ono complained that it was sexism that caused people to slip past her to get to her famous husband, Mr. Frost pointed out that Ingrid Bergman’s husband at the time, Lars Schmidt, also didn’t get enough attention. “Now, that is not prejudice against him because he is a man,” he said. “It is because he has a very famous wife.” There are plenty of talk show hosts today who are quick witted and convivial, and there are still a few who do long, serious interviews about world affairs with statesmen, not just starlets.
小野洋子抱怨说，人们越过她，只关注她著名的丈夫是一种性别歧视。对此弗罗斯特指出，英格丽·褒曼(Ingrid Bergman)当时的丈夫拉尔斯·施密特(Lars Schmidt)也没有得到足够的关注。“人们并不是因为他是男人而歧视他，”他说，“而是因为他有个非常出名的妻子。”如今，有很多谈话节目的主持人机智诙谐，还有几个主持人和政治家们就国际事务进行长时间的严肃访谈，而不只是采访小明星们。
Mr. Frost did it all, on both sides of the ocean, and made it seem effortless.
弗罗斯特在大洋两岸做到了所有这些，而且看起来不费吹灰之力。