For young people, moving to New York City hasn’t made much mathematical sense for decades. The jobs don’t pay enough, the internships don’t pay at all, and the rents are prohibitive by any sane standard.
近几十年来，对于年轻人而言，迁居纽约已经变得不甚合理。那些工作所支付的薪水不够用，实习期间完全没有工资，而房租，从任何正常的标准上看，都高得让人望而却步。
But now add a new economic fact of life to that list: soaring student loan debt. More students are taking out bigger loans than ever before, and in the last 10 years alone, education debt tripled, reaching over $1 trillion. A record number of college students are graduating knee deep in a financial hole before they begin their adult lives.
现如今，在上述内容中，还得新增一类经济上的现实 ：猛增的助学贷款债务。较之以往，現在有更多学生得到了数额更大的贷款，仅过去十年，教育负债就翻了三倍，攀上1万亿美元（约合人民币6.2万亿元）。数量空前的一批大学生，带着埋过膝盖的财务赤字毕了业，开始了他们的成年人生活。
Still, new research suggests that college is working, economically. Four years on campus nets the average graduate almost twice as much in wages as someone without a degree. Those odds may be comforting in the long run, but not when you’re young, deeply in debt and trying to nest in New York City.
尽管如此，新的研究表明，从经济方面考虑，大学还是要上。四年的校园时光，为这些普通的毕业生网罗的薪水，几乎是无学位人士的两倍之多。大学的那些优势，从长远来看或许是令人欣慰的；但当你十分年轻、深陷债务、又想在纽约市安家的时候，则不然。
For many people in college and recently out of it, the pressure of debt seems to be colliding in new ways with the problem of finding a place to live in the city, adding a layer of complication to something that was already plenty complicated.
对于许多仍然在校和近期才刚毕业的人来说，这种债务压力似乎正以新的方式，与在纽约找个住处的问题发生着冲突，使原本已经相当复杂的情况更加复杂。
When Tierney Cooke arrived in New York City in 2010, she faced a daunting choice: pay rent or pay off her student debt. She had taken out loans to put herself through four years at the University of Washington in Seattle, and her first job as a nanny barely paid the bills.
2010年，蒂尔尼·库克(Tierney Cooke)刚来纽约，就面临一个严峻的选择：是付房租，还是偿还学生贷款。她在西雅图的华盛顿大学(University of Washington)曾借助贷款度过四年时光。而毕业后的第一份当保姆的工作很难帮她支付账单。
The total loan payment “was coming in close to $1,000 per month,” Ms. Cooke said. “There was no way that I wasn’t going to pay rent. I didn’t think of it as a choice.”
每月的总还款额“将近1000美元（约合人民币6230元），”库克说，“我不可能不付房租。我无法把那种情况当成一种选择。”
Ms. Cooke, 26, a California native, eventually landed a job in digital advertising, but still couldn’t find the money to pay the rent and the debt collectors at the same time.
最终，来自加利福尼亚州的26岁的库克，在数字广告业找到了一份工作，但仍筹不到足够的钱同时支付房租和还贷。
Several missed payments dashed her credit score and that of her father, since he had co-signed the loans. Ms. Cooke stifled her dream of living alone.
由于几次忘了还贷，她的信用评分大减，还连累了她的父亲。因为父亲与她共同签署了这笔贷款。于是，库克把一人独居的梦想强压了下来。
“I take my responsibility for my part and not being on top of it,” Ms. Cooke said, but added that she signed on the dotted line as a clueless teenager. “At 18 or 19, agreeing to take on thousands and thousands of dollars of debt, I had no idea what it meant.”
“我得承担应尽的责任，不去做超出自己能力的事，”库克说，继而又补充道，她在那条虚线上签下名字的时候，还是个一无所知的孩子。“刚刚十八、九岁的年纪，就同意承担数万美元的债务，我根本不知道那意味着什么。”
Data released by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York suggests that the relationship between student loan debt and the housing market has turned ugly fast. People with student debt used to buy homes at higher rates than peers who had not taken out loans, partly because going to college meant earning more money, according to the report.
纽约市联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of New York)发布的数据表明，助学贷款与住房市场间的关系已经急转直下。过去，背负助学贷款者的买房比率，要比未获贷款的同龄人更高。据这份报告说，部分是因为，上大学意味着赚更多钱。
But in 2012, the New York Fed reported that for the first time in at least a decade, 30-year-old student borrowers were less likely to take out home mortgages than other young people.  Among people around 30 years old, homeownership was plunging fastest for student debtors.
但在2012年，纽约联储显示，30岁的学生借贷人比其他年轻人获得住房按揭贷款的可能性更小。在30岁左右的人群当中，房屋拥有者数量下跌最快的，就是学生债务人。
Economists are worried. Last month, former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said that student loan debt was taking the life out of the housing recovery, and the Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz called the rising debt “an educational crisis” that is “affecting our potential future growth.”
经济学家们都很担心。上个月，前财政部长劳伦斯·萨默斯(Lawrence Summers)说，助学贷款债务正在剥夺复苏的住房市场的生命力；而诺贝尔桂冠得主约瑟夫·斯蒂格利茨(Joseph Stiglitz)称这种日益增长的债务为“一场教育危机”，这种情况将“影响未来的潜在经济增长。”
But if it is a crisis, then it begins long before twentysomethings turn 30 and start to think about white picket fences. From the moment they leave the classroom and enter the real world, young people are often on a delayed schedule, unable to take even baby steps toward real estate maturity.
但如果这是一场危机，在那些二十多岁的年轻人“奔三”后开始考虑那些围着白篱笆的房屋之前，危机早就已开始了。从他们离开课堂，来到真实世界的那一刻起，这些年轻人的人生计划就一拖再拖，无法踏着哪怕十分稚嫩的步伐，向拥有房产的成熟阶段迈进。
Eventually, Ms. Cooke moved into a two-bedroom in Manhattan that housed four women, one boyfriend and two dogs, including Ms. Cooke’s cockapoo, Oliver.
最终，库克搬进了曼哈顿的一套双卧室公寓中，其中住了四个女人、一位男朋友和两条狗，包括库克的那条长耳卷毛狗奥利弗(Oliver)。
“I couldn’t take it,” she said. “They were all in college.”
“我受不了，”她说，“他们都在上大学。”
But she couldn’t move into her own place without saving up some money first, and she couldn’t do that without cutting out one of her two biggest expenses: rent and her recently resumed loan payments. This time, she chose to keep up the loan payments.
但若不先存一笔钱，她就无法搬进自己的地方住；而她又没法存钱，除非从两项最大的支出中砍掉一项：房租和她近期重新开始缴纳的还款。这次，她选择先把钱还上。
She moved out, and for two months, slept on friends’ couches and air mattresses in divided bedrooms and spare nooks. Oliver, the dog, was not always welcome where Ms. Cooke was, so he had his own itinerary of abrupt relocations. She shed any remnants of an REM cycle at her sixth pit stop. “I was basically sharing a living room with a guy who snored and talked in his sleep,” she said.
她搬了出去，然后一连两个月寄身那些隔出来的卧室和空角落里，睡在朋友的沙发和气垫床上。而库克的狗奥利弗并不总能在她落脚的地方受到欢迎，所以，他有自己一条唐突更换住处的路线。她把在第六个旅途休息站浑浑噩噩间残留的一切记忆都抛开了。“我和一个说梦话、打呼噜的小伙子基本上同住在一间起居室里。”她说。
When two landlords rejected her, Ms. Cooke put a housing-wanted ad on Craigslist and found a landlord in Bedford-Stuyvesant who looked past her credit score and let Oliver charm him out of a no-pets policy.
遭到两位房东的拒绝后，库克在克雷格列表(Craigslist)网站上登了一则求租启事，然后在贝德福德-史蒂文森(Bedford-Stuyvesant)社区找到了一位房东。那个人忽视了她的信用评分，还因为奥利弗的魅力，忽略了一项不准豢养宠物的政策。
The joy of her own address has not done much to ease Ms. Cooke’s financial anxiety. “I think about what happens when I meet someone and we want to get married. Then my debt becomes their debt,” she said. “These are all adult things that I never thought about when I was 18 and agreeing to take on a student loan.”
拥有自己住处的快乐，对消除库克财务方面的焦虑并没有起到太大的作用。“我想过当自己遇上某个人、然后我们想结婚时会发生什么事。那时候，我的债务会变成他们的债务，”她说，“这些都是我在18岁那年签下一笔助学贷款的时候，从未想到过的成年人的事。”
For some young people, a home in New York is an ever more distant prospect.
对于一些年轻人来说，在纽约有个家，是无比遥远的前景。
Brittaney Barbosa, 24, has been living in a motel on Long Island for the last two months while she scours New York City for an apartment.
在过去两个月，24岁的布兰妮·巴尔博萨(Brittaney Barbosa)一直住在长岛的一家汽车旅馆里。同时，她正在纽约市里寻找一套公寓。
The numbers are not on her side. She has a 2-year-old son, a full-time job and a student loan bill of $30,000. Ms. Barbosa defaulted on her loan payment, joining 600,000 students across the country, or 15 percent of recent borrowers who have defaulted on their loans within three years.
所有数字都对她不利。她有一个两岁的儿子、一份全职工作和一笔3万美元（约合人民币18.7万元）的助学贷款。巴尔博萨欠着贷款未还，成为在近期申请贷款者中占比15%的、三年内曾经拖欠贷款者的一员。全国上下共有60万名这样的学生。
“It’s affected my credit, it’s affected my apartment-hunting process,” she said. She has seen more than two dozen apartments in eight weeks. “You have to make 40 times the rent, and I don’t. They don’t want me.”
“这影响了我的信用，影响了我的找房过程，”她说。在八个星期内，她已看了二十多套公寓。“你得能赚40倍的租金才行，但我不能。所以他们都不想租给我。”
In the meantime, most of what she earns goes toward the $100 a night she spends on the motel room.
与此同时，她赚的钱大部分都花在了这间汽车旅馆每晚100美元（约合人民币620元）的住宿费上。
Ms. Barbosa said she took out a loan to study fashion merchandising at Bay State College in Boston, but left the program after a year. Her debt followed her back to her hometown on Long Island, where she gave birth to her son. She eventually began taking classes again at Queensborough Community College.
巴尔博萨说，她得到一笔贷款，去了波士顿的海湾州立大学(Bay State College)学习时尚产品营销。但一年后，她就退出了这个学习项目，负债回到位于长岛的老家，在那里生下了儿子。最终，她又在昆士堡社区大学(Queensborough Community College)开始上课。
She is in school until 2 p.m. most days, and works in customer service at an oil company from around 4 to 11 p.m. Her mother and her child’s father take turns watching the toddler during the day.
大多数日子里，她在学校待到下午2点，然后在一家石油公司的客服部门从下午4点工作到晚上11点。她的母亲和孩子的父亲轮流在白天照看她那蹒跚学步的孩子。
Life in the motel, which shares a spread with the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum, can be dreary. “It’s seedy and weird,” said Ms. Barbosa, recalling a recent tattoo convention during which the motel acquired both visitors and a pungent smell of marijuana.
在这家与纳苏郡纪念退伍军人体育馆(Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum)同处一隅的汽车旅馆中，她的生活可以说是沉闷乏味的。“这里破破烂烂、奇奇怪怪的，”巴尔博萨说，她想起来最近的一次纹身大会，当时这家汽车旅馆不仅来了一些参观者，而且还多了一种刺鼻的大麻味道。
“I’m at the end of my rope here,” she said. She’s been staring down the numbers for months and is starting to believe that there is no place for her in New York. She has already begun seeking a rental in New Jersey.
“我在这里已经住到忍无可忍了，”她说。她已经紧盯着这些数字好几个月了，并逐渐开始相信，纽约市无处让她容身。她已经开始在新泽西州找可租的房子了。
Some young people are opting to leave town rather than trying to tackle New York rents and debt all at once. Joseph Trout, a Philadelphia-born chemist with about $19,000 in loans coming due and a long history of barely getting by, has decided to back away from the city altogether.
一些年轻人正选择离开纽约，而不打算同时面对纽约的房租与自己的债务。生于费城的化学研究者约瑟夫·特劳特(Joseph Trout)已经决定，带着一笔大约1.9万美元（约合人民币11.8万元）、即将到期的贷款，和一段生活长期难以为继的经历，彻底从纽约撤离。
A soon-to-be former doctoral student, Mr. Trout, 22, has never counted on outside funding. He went into the foster system at age 14, emerging two years later to become the valedictorian of his high school. He earned a spot at Temple University, he said, which he financed with a hefty student loan.
今年22岁的特劳特即将成为前博士生(former doctoral student)，从不指望自己能得到什么外来资助。14岁那年他进了孤儿院，两年后崭露头角，成为他那所高中毕业典礼上的学生致辞代表。他说，自己在天普大学(Temple University)赢得了一席之地。为了就读那所学校，他筹措了一笔沉甸甸的助学贷款。
He was obsessed with his studies. “I realized that if I didn’t graduate I was going to fall back to where I came from,” he said. “I’m not letting this become my destiny,” he told himself. “I want something better.”
他痴迷于自己的研究。“我意识到，如果我不毕业的话，就会回落到起点，”他说，“但我不会听天由命，”他告诉自己。“我想过得更好一些。”
He came to New York about a year ago as a graduate student on a full scholarship to study chemistry at New York University. His apartment, a shared two-bedroom in Stuyvesant Town, is partly subsidized by the university, but Mr. Trout isn’t impressed with the $1,100 a month in rent that comes out of his own pocket.
大约一年前，他作为一名依靠全额奖学金的学生来到了纽约，进入纽约大学(New York University)研究化学。他的住处是史蒂文森镇(Stuyvesant Town)的一套与人合住的双卧室公寓，一半房租由这所大学补贴，但特劳特并不觉得自己每月从口袋里掏出来交房租的这1100美元（约合人民币6769元），有多实惠。
“The fact that people think it’s a good deal makes me think people here are brainwashed,” he said.
“人们都以为这是笔合算的交易，这件事让我觉得，这里的人都被洗脑了。”他说。
There’s a lot about New York City that loses its shine when Mr. Trout is doing the looking. He sees Manhattan as “just a place,” doesn’t know why he should subsist on noodles “just so I can live in an area with a few parks nearby” and is troubled by the New York tax on a simple sub. “Knowing there are people on this planet who think their sandwiches are worth $10 apiece bothers me immensely.”
特劳特放眼看去，觉得失去了光芒的纽约市让他意识到了很多。他把曼哈顿看成“区区一个地方，”他不明白自己为什么“只为能住在一个附近有几座公园的地方”，就应该靠面条来维持生活；而且他还对纽约市在一份简单的三明治上征税感到困扰。“了解到在这个星球上，还有人觉得他们的每份三明治都值10美元，这让我百思不得其解。”
He has decided to leave the graduate program, partly because he feels overwhelmed by the work and partly because he does not feel he has much in common with the other students. That means finding a new apartment and a job, and in about six months, starting to pay off his loans.
他已经决定退出该研究生项目了，部分是因为觉得工作多得让他透不过气来，另一部分原因则是，他觉得自己和其他学生没有太多共同点——那就是说，他得找到一套新的公寓和一份新的工作，并在大约六个月后开始偿还贷款。
The impending payments and the pressure of shouldering rent and utilities alone has forced Mr. Trout to look far beyond the city limits. He has contemplated moving back to a rough area of Philadelphia; he says rents decline with the increased likelihood of being mugged.
这笔迫在眉睫的支出，以及要独自承担租金与水电费的压力，已经迫使特劳特把眼光放到了远离纽约市的地方。他想过搬回费城的某个杂乱的地方；他说，遭遇打劫的可能性增加了，租金则有所下降。
“There’s utility in having jerk neighbors,” he said, “because it makes sure you have enough money in your own pocket when it comes time to pay the rent.”
“和一些混球做邻居，也有它的妙处，”他说，“因为等到要交房租的时候，你的口袋里肯定会有足够的钱。”
He is also considering moving to Rockland County to be near his fiancée. He has found some rooms in the area for around $500 per month, which is far lower than the average rent in New York City.
他还在考虑搬到洛克兰县(Rockland County)，与他的未婚妻离得近一些。他已经在那找到一些每月租金大约在500美元（约合人民币3077元）的住处了，比纽约市的平均租金低得多。
No stranger to struggle, Mr. Trout said that, if things get bad, he will invest in keeping himself afloat before trying to keep the collectors at bay.
没有需要提防的陌生人，特劳特说，如果情况恶化，他会把钱用于维持自己的生存，然后再努力让债主们不上门讨债。
“If I don’t get all the income, then my survival comes first, because what are they going to do, milk a rock? They can’t take money from me that I don’t have,” he said.
“如果我拿不到所有的收入，那么我的生存就是第一位的。不然他们要做什么？非从石头里挤牛奶吗？他们不可能从我这里拿走我没有的钱。”他说。
He regards a future of juggling rent and loan payments with some dread. But he says he is better off with the debt than without it.
他抱着些许恐惧，考虑着一个轮番交房租和还贷款的未来。但他说，背着债务比没有债务要更好。
“My upward mobility completely depended on getting that education,” he said. “Debt or no debt, I would do it again, because it was my only way out.”
“我向上攀登的努力，完全依赖于接受的那些教育，”他说，“不管有没有债务，我都会再去读书。因为这是我唯一的出路。” 