Alexander DiPersia has deep roots in real estate. In 1924, one of his great-grandfathers, William Kaufman, established a Manhattan development firm that today manages nearly four million square feet of commercial space. Mr. DiPersia, an actor, never joined the family business, but through a family-cultivated appreciation for art, he happened onto an auxiliary career as a curator for private and public spaces that started with several lobbies in the Kaufman portfolio.
亚历山大·迪派西亚(Alexander DiPersia)在房地产业有着深厚的根基。1924年，他的曾祖父之一，威廉·考夫曼(William Kaufman)创立了一家曼哈顿(Manhattan)地产开发公司，如今公司旗下管理着将近四百万平方英尺的商业空间。迪派西亚一直是一名演员，从未涉足家族生意，但从小由家庭熏陶而来的艺术素养，让他无意中开始投身一项辅助事业，成为了一名为私人和公共场所寻觅艺术品的藏品策划人。这项事业，就起始于考夫曼旗下产业的几座大堂中。
Until recently, commercial real estate didn’t figure in his career plans. If he wasn’t auditioning or acting (“Lovestruck: The Musical” on ABC Family; upcoming episodes of “Gotham” and “NCIS”), he was perusing avant-garde galleries, on the lookout for ravishing pieces of affordable art to embellish his own evolving collection. On weekends, he visited museums to hone his eye.
他从没把商业地产纳入过自己的职业规划范畴，直到最近才有所变化。现在，只要不去试镜或演出（ABC家庭频道[ABC Family]正在播放他出演的音乐剧《坠入爱河》[Lovestruck: The Musical]；电视连续剧《哥谭镇》[Gotham]与《海军罪案调查处》[NCIS]也即将播出），他就会到那些先锋派画廊里考察，从那些尚不昂贵的艺术品当中仔细搜寻一些美丽迷人的作品，来点缀自己还在不断充实的藏品。每逢周末，他就会去参观许多博物馆，让自己的眼光变得更加犀利。
But a couple of years ago, when the William Kaufman Organization, now run by his grandfather Robert Kaufman, began refurbishing the lobbies of some of its properties through its leasing and management division, Sage Realty Corporation, Mr. DiPersia took notice. He knew his great-grandfather had hired the artist Hans Hofmann in 1956 to encase the elevator core at 711 Third in a Venetian glass mosaic. And he knew his great-uncle Melvyn Kaufman, who directed the company for decades alongside his grandfather, had installed a great deal of art in buildings, albeit of a kitschier type. Mr. DiPersia does not consider his great-uncle a mentor, but appreciates the whimsy of the sculpture of a naked woman between the revolving doors at 747 Third Avenue: she can be glimpsed only while entering or exiting and is easily missed by the unobservant.
而在几年前，当时的威廉·考夫曼集团(William Kaufman Organization)——现由他的祖父罗伯特·考夫曼(Robert Kaufman)运营——开始由其租赁管理分部的圣贤地产公司(Sage Realty Corporation)经手，重新装修一些物业的大堂。这件事被迪派西亚注意到了。他知道自己的曾祖父在1956年曾聘请艺术家汉斯·霍夫曼(Hans Hofmann)来装饰第三大道711号(711 Third)的电梯内饰面，所用的材料是威尼斯的玻璃马赛克。而且他还知道，自己的曾伯父、也即与祖父共同经营这家企业数十年的梅尔文·考夫曼(Melvyn Kaufman)，在这几栋大楼里陈列了大量艺术品，尽管那都是些媚俗的作品。虽然迪派西亚觉得曾伯父并不算是自己的导师，但他还是很欣赏摆在第三大道747号两扇旋转门之间的那尊裸体女人雕塑的怪异感：她可能会被瞟上两眼，只在进门或出门的时候，而且容易被粗心大意的人忽略。
Armed with this legacy, Mr. DiPersia went to see his cousin Jonathan Iger, a vice president of Sage, with a proposition: How about letting him act as an unpaid curator of a rotating display of contemporary art to enliven the lobbies?
由于这些缘故，迪派西亚去见了他的堂兄，圣贤公司的一位副总裁乔纳森·伊热(Jonathan Iger)。他提出一个建议：不如让他来当一名不领薪水的藏品策划人吧？他会轮番展示一些当代的艺术品，使这几座大堂焕发活力。
“I thought it would be a mistake to reinvigorate these spaces and not beautify them with art that could be seen by the public,” Mr. DiPersia said. With Mr. Iger on board, Robert Kaufman granted them permission to start with the lobby of 320 West 13th Street. Then Mr. DiPersia tracked down a large, appropriate piece of borrowable art. “Edgy but not too edgy,” he said. “It had to be accessible; I wanted to start a dialogue, not a riot.”
“我觉得，要让这些地方重现活力，却不使用大家都能欣赏的艺术品来加以美化，会是一个错误”，迪派西亚说。因为有伊热加入，罗伯特·考夫曼批准了他们从西13街320号(320 West 13th Street)的这座大堂着手。于是迪派西亚开始在那些可被出借的艺术品里寻找一件适合摆放的大型作品。“前卫，但又不能太前卫，”他说，“这件作品必须能让人看懂；我想引发一场谈论，而不是一次动乱。”
He started the dialogue in November 2012 with a mixed-media work by Rashid Johnson.
2012年11月，他用拉希德·约翰逊(Rashid Johnson)设计的一件混合媒介作品发起了这场谈论。
His friendship with the art dealer Vito Schnabel, the son of the painter and filmmaker Julian Schnabel, was pivotal during his curatorial infancy. “I didn’t really know the artist Rashid Johnson, but Vito did, and at that time Vito didn’t have the exhibition space. But I did, so it was a nice symbiotic undertaking; from the first day we put it up, it was a draw.”
他与画家兼导演朱利安·施纳贝尔(Julian Schnabel)的儿子、艺术品经销商维托·施纳贝尔(Vito Schnabel)的友谊，在他刚刚成为一名藏品策划的时候，体现出了关键作用。“其实我不认识这位名叫拉希德·约翰逊的艺术家，但维托认识。而维托那时候没有展出场地，但是我有，所以这是一项不错的共生事业；从我们开始合作的第一天起，这就是动力所在。”
Mr. DiPersia’s latest curatorial coup is “SP 179,” an enormous spray-painted canvas by the Los Angeles artist Sterling Ruby. The post-graffiti-themed piece dominates a lobby wall at 767 Third Avenue, guarded by a velvet rope. Valued at around $1.5 million, it is on loan from Christie’s, the auction house.
迪派西亚最近一次搜寻到的艺术品是一张巨大的喷绘帆布画“SP 179,”，由洛杉矶艺术家施特林·鲁比(Sterling Ruby)创作。这件后现代的涂鸦主题作品，占据了第三大道767号大堂的一整面墙壁，周围还用天鹅绒绳子保护了起来。这幅作品的价值大约为150万美元（约合人民币919万元），借自佳士得拍卖行(Christie’s)。
“I knew Christie’s had the painting in storage,” Mr. DiPersia said, though he thought there was little chance it would lend it to him. “But when I called and asked, they said yes. I’m a true believer that you fail at 100 percent of the things you don’t try.”
“我早就知道佳士得拍卖行的仓库里有这幅画，”迪派西亚说，尽管他觉得这家拍卖行几乎不可能把这幅画借给他，“但是当我致电去问的时候，他们竟然同意了。你不去尝试的事情才会百分百失败，我是这句话的忠实信奉者。”
Besides family (his parents and grandparents now consult him), his clientele has burgeoned to 15. Some are friends; several are collectors he met on acting gigs.
现在，除了他的家人（他的父母与祖父母都在找他当顾问）之外，他的客户人数已经达到了15位。其中有一些是朋友，还有几位是他在演出现场遇到的收藏家。
“If people like my taste, that’s great,” he said. “Acting pays my mortgage, hopefully, and my selling of art decorates my walls. Every dollar I make doing this goes back into buying art,” added Mr. DiPersia, 32, who countered his mother’s concern about those purchases by reminding her that, until he is married with children to support, investing in good art is not such a bad habit to have.
“如果人们喜欢我的品位，那真是太好了，”他说，“我可以用表演酬劳支付房产的抵押贷款，但愿如此；而用销售那些艺术品的收入，装饰家里的墙壁。通过做这件事所赚的每一分钱，我都拿去再投资艺术品，”今年32岁的迪派西亚补充道，他对母亲关于他买那些东西的担心做了反驳，他提醒她，除非结了婚、有孩子要养，否则投资优质艺术品并不是一个太坏的习惯。
Brendan Brogan, a senior vice president of the Starwood Capital Group, enlisted him to personalize the walls of his downtown penthouse. “A.J. seems to be perpetually ahead of trends,” he said, using Mr. DiPersia’s nickname (his middle name is John). “I generally look for pieces that visually appeal to me without getting boring. The investment aspect is secondary, but this is an area A.J. seems to have a good handle on. He opened my eyes to a number of artists I probably would not have found on my own.”
斯图尔特资本集团(Starwood Capital Group)的高级副总裁布兰登·布罗根(Brendan Brogan)曾找他帮忙，让他把自己在下城区那套顶层公寓的几面墙，装饰得更加个性化一些。“A.J.似乎总是走在潮流的前面，”他称呼的是迪派西亚的昵称（他的中间名是约翰[John]），“我一般找的是在视觉上很吸引我、且不会变枯燥的东西。投资的考虑倒在其次，但这似乎是A.J.很擅长的一个领域。他让我开阔眼界、认识了许许多多的艺术家。若是让我自己去找的话，可能根本发现不了这些人。”
Mr. DiPersia grew up in Southport, Conn., the son of a lawyer, John DiPersia, and Ronna Kaufman DiPersia, an amateur artist. An interest in art hit him early: An insomniac, he had a revelation when he first saw a Jean-Michel Basquiat painting.
迪派西亚在康涅狄格州的南港市(Southport)长大，是律师约翰·迪派西亚(John DiPersia)和业余艺术家罗娜·考夫曼·迪派西亚(Ronna Kaufman DiPersia)的儿子。他很早就对艺术产生了兴趣：那时候他是一名失眠症患者，但在初见到尚·米榭·巴斯奇亚(Jean-Michel Basquiat)的一幅画作时，他忽然领悟了神启。
“I said, ‘That’s it! That’s what I see when I close my eyes but can’t sleep,’ ” he recalled, sitting on a black leather couch in his loft on lower Broadway, a cavernous space he moved into four months ago after a six-year acting stint in Los Angeles. “You cry your heart out in L.A., and now I’m rehydrating,” he said.
“我说，‘就是那张画！那就是我每次闭上眼睛却无法入睡时看到的东西，’”他坐在家中一张黑色皮沙发里回忆道，他的这套跃层公寓是凹形的，位于百老汇大道南端。四个月前，他结束了自己在洛杉矶六年的演艺生涯，搬进这里，“在洛杉矶我把眼泪都哭干了，所以现在得补充水份。”他说。
He’s still using garment bags as room dividers but has not stinted on his wall décor: a small purplish abstract by his mother hangs between behemoths by Ethan Cook, a Brooklyn artist who weaves his own canvases, and a ghostly silver work by Parker Ito. The Rene Ricard painting above his bed, “It Will Warm With the Sunrise,” acquired through Vito Schnabel, was a 30th-birthday gift from his mother. An ostrich skeleton stands next to the couch and a cow skull sits on his desk, pets of a sort that never require feeding.
他仍在把衣服防尘罩当做房间隔断，但墙面的装饰丝毫没有省略：有一件是他母亲画的略带紫色的小幅抽象画，挂在布鲁克林自织帆布艺术家伊桑·库克(Ethan Cook)创作的巨兽，和帕克·依托(Parker Ito)设计的一件阴森银器之间。雷内·里卡德(Rene Ricard)的画就挂在床的上方，“那幅经维托·施纳贝尔之手得到的《日出之后会变暖》(It Will Warm With the Sunrise)，”是母亲送给他的一件30岁生日礼物。除此之外，另有一副鸵鸟骨架摆在沙发旁，还有一副牛颅骨放在他的桌上，就像一些从来无需喂食的宠物。
Benjamin Godsill, a specialist in the contemporary art department at the Phillips auction house, said Mr. DiPersia’s relative youth and lack of academic baggage — at Boston College he majored in philosophy and history — enhanced his ability to interact with up-and-coming artists.
菲利普斯拍卖行(Phillips auction house)当代艺术部的一位专家本杰明·戈德希尔(Benjamin Godsill)说，迪派西亚比较年轻、且没有学术负担的特点，强化了他与那些很有前途的艺术家之间的互动。迪派西亚在波士顿学院(Boston College)主修的是哲学和历史。
“Some of the best collectors and art dealers have come not from academia, but from a refined sense of connoisseurship,” Mr. Godsill said. “A.J. is someone who, in his collecting and curating, reflects the artists of his generation and can personally speak to their concerns, and what could be more fun than to get to hang out with the jesters and agitators of our society? The best curators are always enablers of the artist.”
“最好的收藏家和艺术品经销商，往往不是来自学术界的，而是源于一种超凡脱俗的鉴赏力，”戈德希尔说，“A.J.在他的收藏与策划活动当中，反映出了与他同一代的艺术家们的特质，而且他本人也能够就他们关心的事发表意见，还有什么比结交我们社会中这些恶作剧制造者和煽动者更有趣的呢？最好的藏品策划人，一直是艺术家的成就者。”
Frank E. Flowers, a writer, producer and filmmaker with residences in California and on Grand Cayman Island, praised Mr. DiPersia’s nonelitist sensibility. “Alexander embodies the perfect blend of traditional taste while keeping abreast of modern trends,” he said. “He’s a cultural attaché of sorts. I can give him an envelope of cash and trust him to come back with something stunning.”
在加利福尼亚和大开曼岛都有住宅的作家、制片人和导演弗兰克·E·弗劳尔斯(Frank E. Flowers)称赞迪派西亚，具有一种非精英式的感性。“亚历山大体现了传统品味的完美混合，同时也保持了与现代潮流的齐头并进，”他说，“他算是一位文化艺术的使者。我只要给他一个包着现金的信封，就能确信他可以带回某些惊人的东西。”