Twice a year, on what he refers to as “wax day,” the Dutch art collector Joop van Caldenborgh sets out armed with an array of household cleaners and tools (and several staff members) and spends the day in the 50-acre grounds behind his home in this suburb outside The Hague. His mission: to keep the garden’s precious contents looking fresh and vibrant.
每年两次，荷兰艺术收藏家乔普·范·卡尔登伯格(Joop van Caldenborgh)都会迎来他所说的“打蜡日”。每到这时，他就会全副武装地带上一系列家庭清洁剂和工具（以及好几名员工），花一整天时间来打理他在海牙市郊的住处后面那片50英亩（约合20.2公顷）的花园。他的使命是：让花园里那些珍贵的陈设保持光彩、鲜活。
Not the plants, mind you, but the massive reclining bronze nude by Henry Moore, the lacquered fiberglass mushrooms by Sylvie Fleury, the enormous bronze feet by Tom Otterness and the 60 or so other modern sculptures that fill the garden. The bronzes all need polishing; pieces like the shiny fiberglass mushrooms get a thorough scrubbing with car shampoo and a Turtle Wax finish; and the black patina of works like the Tom Otterness feet get a coating of shoe polish to maintain their sheen.
请注意，这里的陈设不可是植物，而是亨利·摩尔(Henry Moore)设计的大型斜倚裸体铜像、西尔维·夫拉里(Sylvie Fleury)创作的上漆玻璃纤维蘑菇、汤姆·奥图尼斯(Tom Otterness)创作的巨足铜像，以及其它60来个遍布于花园各个角落的雕塑。所有铜像都需要抛光；诸如闪亮的玻璃纤维蘑菇这类作品则需用洗车香波彻底擦洗，打上一层龟牌(Turtle Wax)洗车蜡；而像汤姆·奥图尼斯创作的这种发黑的铜锈色巨足雕像，则需打上一层鞋油以保持光泽。
“In this era of the superrich, art is one of the things that you are supposed to have, like a private jet,” said Wim Pijbes, the director of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, who is on the board of Mr. van Caldenborgh’s private foundation. “But Joop is a classical art lover: he has all the big artists, but he has them because he bought them in very early stages.”
“在这个超级富豪的时代，艺术是你人生当中理应拥有的一样东西，就像私人飞机一样，”坐落于阿姆斯特丹的国家博物馆(Rijksmuseum)的馆长维姆·皮耶贝斯(Wim Pijbes)说。他也在卡尔登伯格的私人基金会担任董事。“但是乔普是一个经典的艺术爱好者：所有大牌艺术家的作品他都有，但是他之所以拥有这些，是因为他很早就把它们买来收藏了。”
It’s one thing to have a vast collection of paintings and photography, which Mr. van Caldenborgh does. It can be seen on the walls of his house and his privately held chemicals company, Caldic B.V., and soon in the museum he is planning to open just across from his home next year.
拥有大量绘画和摄影收藏品并不稀奇。凡·卡尔登伯格符合这个条件。他的绘画和摄影收藏品就挂在家里及私营化学品公司Caldic B.V.的墙上。很快，它们也会出现在他的私人博物馆里。这家博物馆拟于明年开放，地点就在他家对面。
But private sculpture parks are still relatively rare, especially in Europe. And initially Mr. van Caldenborgh, 73, had no plans to open the park he calls Clingenbosch to the public. In fact, he had no plans for a sculpture park at all.
不过，私人的雕塑公园时至今日依然相对较少，尤其是在欧洲。而且，今年73岁的范·卡尔登伯格一开始并不打算将他命名为Clingenbosch的公园对外开放。事实上，他一开始根本就没有开设雕塑公园的打算。
“I bought the property in 1988,” he said recently over breakfast at the Four Seasons Hotel in New York, where he had come to check out the offerings at the Frieze Art Fair. The garden, which had been designed in 1912 by Jan David Zocher, a Dutch landscape architect, wasn’t to his liking. “It was like Versailles: very symmetrical and manicured, with straight hedges.”
“我1988年买下了这处地产，”他最近在纽约四季酒店(Four Seasons Hotel)吃早餐时说。他当时来纽约是为参观佛瑞兹艺术博览会(Frieze Art Fair)上的展品。他的花园是由荷兰园林建筑师扬·大卫·左克尔(Jan David Zocher)于1912年设计的，但他并不喜欢。“它就像凡尔赛：布局非常对称，植物修剪得齐整，有笔直的树篱。”
Mr. van Caldenborgh began by adding winding paths and ponds. And then one day, “Walking through the woods, I thought it would be nice to have a sculpture here,” he said. “I only had a few pieces, so I put them outside and I liked it.”
凡·卡尔登伯格开始在花园里增设蜿蜒曲折的小径和池塘。后来有一天，“我穿过树林时心想，这里要是放个雕塑就好了，”他说，“我只有几件雕塑品，于是就把它们放到外面，效果挺满意的。”
Before long, he was buying more sculptures to put in the park. Then he invited a few friends and colleagues for a tour. Word spread and he began getting requests to visit. “I found myself leading a tour through the garden four times in one weekend,” he said. So he opened the park to visitors once a week by appointment. Now he has 20 curators who lead walking tours.
没过多久，他就开始购买更多的雕塑放到花园里。后来，他邀请了一些朋友和同事来参观，园子的名气渐渐传开，有人开始请求来访。“我发现自己一个周末就要带别人参观四次花园。”他说。于是，他把花园定为每周开放一次，参观者必须事先预约。现在，他已经有了20位管理员，负责带领来访者步行参观。
“Sculpture gardens can be like zoos in which different species of sculptures who can’t speak to each other are forced to cohabit,” said the British sculptor Antony Gormley, whose work is on display in the garden. “But Joop has allowed each work to have its own zone, so there is nothing to distract your relationship with the piece.”
“雕塑花园可能跟动物园很相似，因为这里有许多不同种类的雕塑，它们不能互相交流，却不得不‘栖息’在同一个地方，”已有作品被陈列在这处花园的英国雕塑家安东尼·戈姆利(Antony Gormley)说，“但是乔普给每件作品都分配了属于自己的地带，因此你跟作品之间的关系就不会受到干扰。”
Installing each artwork in its own zone isn’t always easy, though, particularly when it comes to massive pieces like Mr. Gormley’s.
只不过，要将每件艺术作品都安放在属于自己的地带，并不总是轻而易举的，尤其是像戈姆利的作品，属于特别大件的类型。
“I had finished the plaster cast of a great big piece called ‘Still Leaping,’ a group of assembled spherical forms based on the concept of space displaced by a leaping figure,” he said, when Mr. van Caldenborgh visited his Brussels studio and bought the final version in iron. “It weighs five tons and I had never imagined it would find a home.”
“我给一件超大的作品做了个石膏模型，作品的名称是《仍在跳跃》(Still Leaping)，这是一堆组装在一起的椭圆形，体现出一个跳跃人物所移动过的空间的概念，”他说，当范·卡尔登伯格来到他在布鲁塞尔的工作室，买下了这部作品的最终版、也就是铁质成品时，“整个雕塑重达5吨，我从来没想过它可以找到属于自己的家。”
Getting it to Clingenbosch required one truck to lay a path of steel plates through the park so a second truck, carrying the sculpture, wouldn’t sink into the ground because of its weight. The route had to be carefully chosen to avoid tearing down the branches of trees that framed other works. And a crane was needed to hoist “Still Leaping” into the air and drop it into a space covered in poured concrete that would provide support for it.
要想把它运到Clingenbosch，就得开一辆卡车在公园里铺出一条钢板路。只有这样，装着雕塑的第二辆卡车才不会因为太重而陷进土里。路线必须仔细选择，以免刮断沿途树木的枝杈，从而破坏了其它作品的框架。此外，还需要开一辆起重机，将《仍在跳跃》抬举到半空中，放进一个表面浇了筑混凝土的空间里。这个空间能给雕塑提供支撑。
That’s just the last part of the drawn-out process that begins when Mr. van Caldenborgh commissions a sculpture.
从范·卡尔登伯格委托雕塑师创作雕塑的那一刻起，一个漫长的过程就开始了，而上述步骤只是最后一环。
“The artist makes a drawing and then you accept,” Mr. van Caldenborgh said. “It does not just happen overnight.”
“艺术家要先画草图，让你认可，”范·卡尔登伯格说，“这个过程并不是一蹴而就的。”
And when a sculpture is going to be outside, he added, “Maintenance is very important. So I always like to know what materials they are going to use.”
他还说，如果雕塑需要放在室外，那么“维护就很重要。所以，我总是会提前问他们，准备采用什么材料。”
The Dan Graham piece “Pavilion 111 for Joop,” for example, took years to finalize. “He wanted a more rounded piece,” Mr. van Caldenborgh said. “I wanted a square one.” It was a long negotiation, but in the end, the sculpture turned out exactly as Mr. van Caldenborgh hoped it would: square.
比如说，丹·格雷厄姆(Dan Graham)的作品《献给乔普的第111号亭》(Pavilion 111 for Joop)花了好几年才完工。“他想要一个偏圆形的雕塑，”范·卡尔登伯格说，“而我想要个方形的。”两个人谈了很久，最终的成品完全遵照了范·卡尔登伯格的意思：方形。
Mr. van Caldenborgh’s passion for art goes back all the way to adolescence, although his father was a civil servant in The Hague and his family didn’t have the means to collect art. Nevertheless, he started making weekly visits to the Gemeentemuseum, which is known for having the world’s largest collection of works by Piet Mondrian.
范·卡尔登伯格对艺术的热情可以追溯到青少年时期，尽管他的父亲是一名海牙的公务员，家里没有条件收集艺术品。但他开始每周都去海牙市立博物馆(Gemeentemuseum)，该馆的闻名之处在于馆内皮特·蒙德里安(Piet Mondrian)的作品数量堪称世界之最。
“My parents were convinced I was crazy, but I went so often that one day the director came over to me,” he said. “I thought he was going to ask me to leave. Instead, he gave me a free membership. Years later, I became the director of that museum.”
“我的父母确信我是疯了，但我去博物馆的次数太频繁了，以至于有一天，馆长直接找到了我，”他说，“我以为他要赶我走，结果他给了我免费的会员资格。多年后，我成为了那家博物馆的馆长。”
The young art lover, who earned pocket money delivering newspapers, bought his first painting at 17. “I think it was a Peter Struycken,” he said. “I paid about 25 guilders, or $11.” Today, the artist’s work is very well known.
这位艺术爱好者小时候靠送报纸挣零用钱。他在17岁那年给自己买了第一幅画。“我觉得那是彼得·斯特鲁肯(Peter Struycken)的作品，”他说，“我付了25荷兰盾，也就是11美元（约合人民币68元）。”如今，这位艺术家的作品大众已经非常熟悉了。
“You start buying, and then you become a collector,” he said. “You don’t need money to collect. What you need are feelings.”
“你开始买东西，后来就慢慢成为了收藏者，”他说，“玩收藏需要的不是钱，而是感觉。”
Now, when he sits on the large brick patio outside his library, Mr. van Caldenborgh can look through a glass house by Dan Graham to the trees that frame the lawn around it. Nearby are twin sets of lacquered fiberglass boxes by Julian Opie, each set arranged differently. And just behind the house is a minimalist aluminum piece by Sol LeWitt.
现在，他坐在书房外砖砌的大露台上，他可以透过丹·格雷厄姆设计的一座玻璃房子看到环绕草坪的树木。附近摆放着朱利安·奥培(Julian Opie)创作的两组上漆的玻璃纤维盒，每组盒子的摆设方式都不同。索尔·勒维特(Sol LeWitt)创作的一件极简主义铝质雕塑就在房子的后面。
What is it like to live in the middle of a garden filled with so much art?
“住在这样一座充满艺术品的花园里，是什么感觉呢？”
“My wife, Charlotte, goes out with our dog,” he said ruefully. “But I barely have time. I am always so busy.”
“我妻子夏洛特(Charlotte)会出去遛狗，”他伤感地说，“但是我没时间，总是太忙了。”