WASHINGTON — When some of President Trump’s aides were reassuring him over the past few weeks that he had enough votes to pass a health care bill, Vice President Mike Pence was skeptical.
华盛顿——当特朗普总统的一些助手在过去几周里向他保证，他能得到足够多的票数通过医保法案时，副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)持怀疑态度。
Mr. Pence, a Hill-wise former Indiana congressman who is typically a palliative presence in an administration of piranhas, had been keeping tabs on conservatives, counseling the president not to take anything for granted, and he urged Mr. Trump to take a hard line against his ideological allies who were pushing for a far more radical rewrite of the Affordable Care Act.
彭斯是一位非常了解国会山的前印第安纳州议员，在这一届充斥着食人鱼的政府中，他是典型的缓和剂，一直在密切关注保守派，建议总统不要想当然，敦促他强硬对待那些重视意识形态的盟友，后者正在积极推动以激进得多的方式改写《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)。
During the course of the last two trying weeks, as less-experienced advisers floundered — and others skipped town — Mr. Pence emerged as an effective, if not ultimately successful, wingman for a president short on competent help.
在过去的这两周困难时期，随着经验不足的顾问变得举步维艰——其他一些人又不在华盛顿——对于缺乏得力助手的总统来说，彭斯成了一个管用的搭档，即便最后未能收获成功。
The health care debacle was nothing if not a CT scan of a troubled and inexperienced West Wing — from the president’s sketchy grasp on policy, to the heavy-handed tactics of his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, who issued a final ultimatum to a balky Freedom Caucus.
特朗普医保法案的彻底失败可以说是对麻烦不断、缺乏经验的白宫西翼的CT扫描，从总统对政策的粗浅了解一直到他的首席战略师斯蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)的粗暴策略。班农向固执的“自由党团”(Freedom Caucus)发布了最后通牒。
Mr. Pence was simply filling a vacuum. The president’s son-in-law and free-floating aide, Jared Kushner, who has described himself as a first among equals in the West Wing, was on a family trip to Colorado. This week, as the administration tried to pivot to tax reform, Mr. Trump’s top economic adviser, Gary D. Cohn, has been away for a few days with his family, on hand for conference calls but out of Washington.
可以说彭斯填补了一个真空。总统的女婿、行动自由的助手贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)曾说自己是西翼的一把手，他现在正在科罗拉多州进行家庭旅行。本周，就在该政府试图转向税收改革时，特朗普的首席经济顾问加里·D·科恩(Gary D. Cohn)已经和家人一起离开了几天，他出席电话会议，但人不在华盛顿。
That has left Mr. Pence to carry out many of the functions that the White House chief of staff, Reince Priebus, would normally fulfill if he possessed more policy experience and legislative connections: sounding out lawmakers for inside information, providing the president with tactical counsel, quietly offering policy tweaks during negotiations.
只剩下彭斯履行白宫幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)通常应该履行的许多职责（如果普利巴斯拥有更多政策经验和立法关系的话）：从议员们那里打探内幕信息，为总统提供战略咨询，在谈判中悄悄地提供政策调整。
Mr. Pence’s team has at times questioned whether Mr. Priebus was up to the demands of his job, according to one West Wing official close to the vice president, who was not authorized to discuss private interactions involving Mr. Pence. And Mr. Trump has made his own unhappiness known with Mr. Priebus, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee. Mr. Pence’s communications director, Jarrod Agen, insisted that it was “categorically untrue for anyone to suggest that Reince has anything but the full support” of the vice president.
据一位与副总统关系亲密的西翼官员称——他未就谈论与彭斯有关的私人关系获得授权——彭斯的团队有时质疑普利巴斯不够称职。普利巴斯也知道特朗普对自己的不满。他是前共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)主席。彭斯的通讯主管贾罗德·阿根(Jarrod Agen)坚称，“任何认为副总统不完全支持普利巴斯的说法都绝对是不真实的”。
“Pence has been a utility infielder when the president needs him, and he’s not trying to compete with the loyalists,” said Tom Barrack, one of Mr. Trump’s closest friends and chairman of the Trump-Pence inaugural committee. “He’s doing exactly what he should be doing.”
“在总统需要时，彭斯是一个有用的内行，他没有试图与总统的忠实支持者竞争，”特朗普最亲密的一个朋友、特朗普-彭斯就职委员会主席汤姆·巴拉克(Tom Barrack)说。“他做的正是他该做的事。”
A Straight Man to Trump
特朗普的搭档
At times, Mr. Pence can seem jarringly out of place, a clean-cut 1950s Republican cheerfully navigating the chaotic “Mad Max” landscape created by the disruptive duo of Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon, trying to stay engaged while remaining discernibly aloof from the less-savory aspects of serving in the Trump White House.
有时，彭斯显得格格不入。20世纪50年代出生的这位干净体面的共和党人乐观地徜徉在特朗普-班农破坏二人组制造的《疯狂的麦克斯》(Mad Max)般的混乱场景之中，努力保持联系，同时清醒地与在特朗普白宫供职的一些不太令人愉快的方面维持距离。
That’s the challenge he’s faced since accepting the job of Mr. Trump’s straight-man running mate last summer. Many Pence advisers, including his wife, Karen, were wary of the offer.
从去年夏天同意担任特朗普的竞选搭档以来，他一直面临这样的挑战。彭斯的很多顾问，包括他的妻子卡伦(Karen)，当初对这份邀约抱着警惕小心的态度。
“I come from a family of preachers,” said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, who served with Mr. Pence in the House and still communicates with him regularly. “He is an honorable man. He is a Christian man. But there’s going to come a time when the Trump storm is over, and you have spent all this time defending him and repeating the stuff Trump has said. What’s he going to do when his credibility is shot?”
“我来自一个传教士家庭，”马里兰州民主党众议员伊莱贾·E·卡明斯(Elijah E.Cummings)说。他曾与彭斯一起在众议院供职，现在依然经常与彭斯联系。“他是一个可敬的人。他是一名基督徒。但是，将来有一天，当特朗普风暴过后，你发现自己花了那么多时间维护他，重复他说过的话。当他的声誉受损时，该怎么办？”
Some members of his staff privately admit that Mr. Pence got off to a slow start. Until his emergence in the health care fight, his main role was as a kind of Trump translator to foreign leaders and lawmakers who needed a conduit to the White House on appointments or arcane issues. One area of particular focus in the first two months: stripping protections for the sage grouse to ease development of lands in the West.
他的一些工作人员私下里承认，彭斯开场的节奏很慢。在最近他出现在医保法案的斗争中之前，他的主要角色是在外国领导人和议员需要一个渠道跟白宫讨论任命人选和艰深问题时担任特朗普的翻译员。他前两个月主要关注的一个领域是：取消对艾草榛鸡的保护，以便开发西部的土地。
And he has held his capital in reserve, choosing to tread lightly on certain issues, according to a person with direct knowledge of the discussions, not campaigning aggressively for defunding Planned Parenthood in the renewed health care bill discussions, for instance.
此外，他一直在保存实力，选择以小心谨慎的态度应对某些问题，例如，据一位对修改医保法案的相关讨论有直接了解的人士所说，他在讨论中并未大力支持撤销对计划生育联盟(Planned Parenthood)的拨款。
Much of the time he simply seemed out of the loop, Mr. Trump’s man-who-knew-too-little sidekick. Mr. Pence’s philosophy, according to several White House staff members, is that he is a team player who has signaled that he needs to know only what Mr. Trump wants him to know.
很多时候他似乎根本不在圈内，只是特朗普的一个对内情知之甚少的副手。白宫的几名工作人员称，彭斯对自己的定位是一个团队性合作者，说自己只需要知道特朗普想让他知道的事情。
Mr. Pence was among the last members of Mr. Trump’s circle to learn that Michael T. Flynn, the now-departed national security adviser, had been talking with Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador, during the campaign. The vice president had been similarly in the dark about the fact that Mr. Flynn’s tweet-terror of a son had been on the transition payroll when he was in charge.
在特朗普的圈子里，彭斯是最后知道现已被解职的国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)在选举期间和俄罗斯大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)交谈过的人之一。同样，彭斯一度也不知道，自己担任过渡团队负责人期间，弗林的一个发推文散播骇人信息的儿子曾受雇于过渡团队。
When Mr. Flynn was fired in mid-February, Mr. Trump and White House officials said he had misled the vice president about his conversations with Mr. Kislyak, which led to an embarrassing television appearance in which an oblivious Mr. Pence defended Mr. Flynn’s conduct.
按照特朗普和一些白宫官员的说法，弗林于2月中旬被解职时，曾就自己与基斯利亚克的谈话对副总统进行了误导。于是才有了被蒙在鼓里的彭斯在电视上为弗林的行为辩护的尴尬一幕。
In reality, Mr. Trump — convinced by Mr. Bannon, Mr. Priebus and Mr. Kushner — had already decided that Mr. Flynn was a liability, and was eager to find an excuse to get rid of him, according to three administration officials familiar with the episode.
三名知道内情的政府官员说，事实上，在班农、普利巴斯和库什纳的游说下，特朗普此前已经认定弗林是个累赘，急于找个由头踢走他。
But even as Mr. Pence steps up his activity as a go-between bridging the White House and Capitol Hill, it’s clear he has adopted a far less ambitious approach to the job than his predecessors Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Dick Cheney, who despised being out of the loop and stocked their staffs with first-rate talent that often rivaled, and later replaced, their presidents’ West Wing teams.
彭斯正加紧以中间人的姿态在白宫和国会山之间架设桥梁，但很明显，他做这项工作的方法远不像他的前任小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)和迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)那么雄心勃勃。后两者厌弃被排除在外的感觉，搜罗了一帮有着一流才干的人员加入自己的团队，这些人常常有能力和时任总统的西翼团队成员分庭抗礼，后来甚至取代了后者。
His model, people close to him say, is the laid-back helpmate vice presidency of George Bush under Ronald Reagan.
接近彭斯的人士说，他的榜样是罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)主政期间的副总统、以悠哉游哉的助手形象示人的乔治·布什(George Bush)。
Stark Differences
鲜明反差
During the first two months of the administration, Mr. Pence lingered on the periphery, with Mr. Bannon and the policy advisers Stephen Miller and Andrew Bremberg occupying central roles. Over the past two weeks, Mr. Pence and Mr. Trump’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney — another conservative former congressman — have taken on greater responsibility as the action has shifted to Capitol Hill.
新政府上台的前两个月，彭斯徘徊在边缘地带，班农以及政策顾问史蒂芬·米勒(Stephen Miller)和安德鲁·布雷姆伯格(Andrew Bremberg)则扮演了核心角色。过去两周里，随着法案被递交给国会，彭斯和另一名保守派前国会议员、特朗普的预算主管米克·马尔瓦尼(Mick Mulvaney)，承担起了更大的责任。
Both men have tried to nudge the president to the right, and pressed Mr. Trump to make serious concessions to the Freedom Caucus over health care, advocating an accelerated timetable for phasing out Medicaid at the behest of Republican governors.
两人都试图劝说总统向右转，在医保问题上向自由党团做出重大让步，都主张按照共和党州长们的要求，为逐渐取消联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)制定一份经过提速的时间表。
Mr. Pence was a steady advocate, if ultimately not a successful one, during Mr. Trump’s last-minute push, telling hard-liners as part of his pitch that “I would have been a member of the Freedom Caucus if I was still in Congress.”
当特朗普做最后的努力时，彭斯是一名稳定的支持者，尽管最终算不上成功。他游说强硬派时跟他们说，“如果我还在国会里，我会是自由党团的一员。”
When that didn’t work, he joined Mr. Bannon in pushing for a vote — to identify and shame dissenters — even as the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, urged the president to think less about revenge than about stockpiling political capital for coming fights on the budget, tax reform and an infrastructure bill.
当这么做不管用的时候，他便和班农一道推动进行投票——以识别和羞辱异见分子——尽管众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)力劝总统少想想复仇，多想想如何积攒政治资本，迎接即将到来的与预算、税务改革和一项基础设施法案有关的硬仗。