GRANADA, Spain
西班牙格拉纳达
IT was more than a decade ago, as his taxi made its way through the troubled neighborhoods of Lima, that Dr. José A. Lorente, an expert in forensic genetics, first started thinking about the plight of street children.
十多年前，法医遗传专家何塞·A·洛伦特(José A. Lorente)博士乘坐出租车穿过利马治安混乱的社区，第一次开始思考街头流浪儿童的悲惨命运。
In Peru to consult with police officials about identifying the bodies of some terrorists, he could not help asking them what they did to help the children. The police told him there was little they could do. There was no way to identify them, no way to reunite them with their families and usually they just ran away if they were taken to orphanages.
在秘鲁与警官就辨认恐怖分子尸体进行商讨时，他不禁问这些警察，他们能帮孩子们做点什么？警察表示他们无能无力。没办法确认孩子的身份，也没法让他们与家人团聚，如果把他们送进孤儿院的话，他们通常会逃跑。
Dr. Lorente was not satisfied with that answer.
洛伦特博士对这个答案并不满意。
“I knew there was a way,” he said. “I knew that DNA could do that. And I thought, We can keep track of the pedigree of dogs and racehorses, can’t we do as much for children?”
“我知道一个办法，”他说。“我知道DNA可以做到。而且我认为，我们既然可以记录狗和赛马的血统，为什么不能为孩子们做同样的事情呢？”
In his glass and steel headquarters here, he seems a long way from the gritty streets that first inspired him. But even if the clean-cut Dr. Lorente, iPad at the ready, looks like an unlikely champion of the world’s lost, stolen and trafficked children, it is what he has become.
身处钢架玻璃结构的总部大楼，洛伦特博士似乎与那些最初给他带来灵感的沙砾街道距离遥远。穿着整洁的洛伦特博士——一手拿着iPad——看起来并不像是世界上那些走失、被盗、被贩卖儿童的保护者，这确实是他在从事的事业。
He has made headlines around the world helping to identify the remains of Christopher Columbus and Simón Bolívar, and bodies found in mass graves in Chile and elsewhere. But along the way he has also managed to persuade officials in 16 countries — including Guatemala, Mexico, Peru, Ecuador, Brazil, Nepal, Indonesia, Malaysia, India and Thailand — to begin building DNA databanks that can identify and reunite missing children with their families.
他曾经帮助辨认克里斯托弗·哥伦布(Christopher Columbus)和西蒙·玻利瓦尔(Simón Bolívar)的遗骸，以及智利大型墓葬和其他地方的遗体，由此登上了世界各地的头条新闻。但在这个过程当中，他也成功地说服了16个国家的官员开始建立DNA数据库，以便确认丢失儿童身份，帮助他们与家人重聚。这些国家包括危地马拉、墨西哥、秘鲁、厄瓜多尔、巴西、尼泊尔、印度尼西亚、马来西亚、印度以及泰国。
The idea is simple enough. In his mind’s eye, Dr. Lorente, 51, sees a network of national databanks storing the DNA of parents who have lost children. That way when children are found, even years later, they can be matched. He also sees such databanks as playing a crucial role in preventing the adoptions of stolen children and in dismantling trafficking rings.
这个构想非常简单。51岁的洛伦特博士的构想是一个由各国数据库构成的网络，里面储存着丢失孩子的父母的DNA信息。这样一来，即便孩子在几年后才被找到， 他们还是可以通过DNA信息核查确认孩子身份。他还希望，这些数据库能在阻止收养被拐儿童和铲除贩卖团伙方面起到关键作用。
“This is all doable, and we should be doing it,” Dr. Lorente said. He acknowledges it is a large ambition for a civilian running genetics labs in one of Spain’s smaller cities, a subject, he said, that sometimes comes up at his home. “My wife says, ‘So, you are Don Quixote, right?’ ”
“这是可行的,而且我们现在就该这么做，”洛伦特博士说。他承认，对于一个在西班牙小城市管理基因实验室的普通百姓来说，这样的野心有点大。他说，他有时在家也会遇上这个问题。“我的妻子说，‘你就是堂吉诃德，对吗？’”
Dr. Lorente laughs. But he argues that his idea makes sense and will eventually take hold. In the meantime, the foundation he set up in 2004, DNA-Prokids, has been providing willing countries with thousands of free DNA tests and DNA collection kits. So far, he says, the free tests have been used in reuniting about 550 children with their families, most of them in Guatemala and Peru. The tests have also stopped more than 200 illegal adoptions.
洛伦特博士笑了。但是他争论说他的构想行得通，最终也会产生效果。与此同时，他2004年成立的DNA-Prokids基金为那些愿意尝试的国家提供了几千次免费的DNA测试以及DNA收集箱。他表示，到目前为止，免费测试已经成功帮助大约550名儿童与家人团聚，其中大部分是危地马拉和秘鲁的孩子。测试还制止了200多起非法收养案例。
Dr. Lorente believes that adoptions should always involve genetic testing to make sure the parents giving away the child are really the parents. And he says that 80 percent of the world’s street children have families who would gladly take them back if they could be found.
洛伦特博士认为办理收养时都应该进行遗传测试，以此确定放弃孩子的父母真的是孩子的亲生父母。他表示，世界上80%的街头流浪儿童都有家人，如果能够找到他们，家人们会很高兴地带他们回家。
He had a leg up, he says, when he decided to pursue the idea of DNA databanks. He knew a lot of the right people. He had spent more than a year doing research in the labs at the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s training center at Quantico, Va., in the early 1990s. At the time, he was helping to develop ways to match DNA even when the sample was badly deteriorated — for instance, if it came from blood that had been sitting in the sun for a long time.
洛伦特博士说，决定将DNA数据库构想付诸实施之后，他获得了很多帮助与支持。他认识许多能够发挥作用的人。20世纪90年代，他曾在联邦调查局(Federal Bureau of Investigation)位于弗吉尼亚州匡蒂科的培训中心做研究，时间超过一年。那时，他帮助研究在样本受到破坏的情况下，比如血液样本已经暴晒很长时间的时候，怎样进行DNA匹配测试。
BUT in the evenings, he ate in the cafeteria with everyone else on the sprawling campus, including the many foreigners who had come to Quantico for training, people who would later became important figures in their own countries.
但是到了晚上，他就会与大家一起在自助餐厅吃饭。这个庞大中心里的所有人都会来餐厅吃饭，其中包括许多来匡蒂科参加培训的外国人，他们以后都成为各自国家的重要人物。
“They became ministers and police chiefs, and they kept inviting me to come consult,” he said. “So when I traveled I was talking to them about this, too.”
“他们当上了部长或是警察局长，总是请我给他们提供咨询服务，”他说。“所以，旅行各地的时候，我也会和他们讨论这个问题。”
Some of the free tests are performed in Granada, some at the University of North Texas Health Science Center in Fort Worth, where his former boss at the F.B.I. lab, Bruce Budowle, is now the executive director of the Institute of Applied Genetics. Dr. Budowle says Dr. Lorente has a knack for pushing this particular agenda. “He is an excellent communicator who really excels at talking to the higher-level people,” Dr. Budowle said. “And he has the passion.”
这些免费测试中，有一部分在格拉纳达(Granada)完成，还有一部分在北德克萨斯大学沃思堡健康科学中心(University of North Texas Health Science Center in Fort Worth)完成。他在美国联邦调查局(FBI)实验室的前上司布鲁斯·布多(Bruce Budowle)如今是该中心的应用遗传学研究所(Institute of Applied Genetics)的执行主任。布多博士表示，洛伦特博士在推行这个特别方案方面很有一手。“他具备优秀的沟通能力，在同高端人群交流方面非常出色，” 布多说道。“同时，他也很有激情。”
Dr. Lorente says there is a real excitement to working on big-name cases like identifying the remains of Columbus and Bolívar. But it is the more intimate cases that stay with him longer.
洛伦特博士说，牵涉著名人物的工作案例，比如辨认玻利瓦尔和哥伦布的遗骸，的确让人很兴奋。然而，持续时间更长的却是那些更私人的案例。