Peter O'Toole, an Irish bookmaker's son with a hell-raising streak whose magnetic performance in the 1962 epic film “Lawrence of Arabia” earned him overnight fame and put him on the road to becoming one of his generation's most accomplished and charismatic actors, died Saturday, according to his agent, Steve Kenis. He was 81.
彼得·奥图(Peter O'Toole)于上周六与世长辞，享年81岁。这位爱尔兰赌马经纪人的儿子有着喜爱惹事生非的性格，1962在史诗片《阿拉伯的劳伦斯》(Lawrence of Arabia)中充满魅力的表演令他一夜成名，并使他成为一代人中最成功、最迷人的演员之一。经纪人史蒂夫·柯尼斯(Steve Kenis)宣布了他的死讯。
A blond, blue-eyed 6-footer, O'Toole had the dashing good looks and high spirits befitting a leading man, and he did not disappoint in “Lawrence,” David Lean's wide-screen, almost-four-hour homage to T.E. Lawrence, the daring British soldier and adventurer who led an Arab rebellion against the Turks in the Middle East during World War I.
奥图金发碧眼，身高6英尺（约合1.82米——译注），他仪表堂堂，情绪高昂，适合充当领袖人物，而在《阿拉伯的劳伦斯》一片中，他也没有令人失望。《阿拉伯的劳伦斯》是大卫·里恩(David Lean)执导的宽银幕影片，将近四个小时，旨在向T·E·劳伦斯(T. E. Lawrence)致敬，这位勇敢的英国士兵与冒险家“一战”期间在中东领导阿拉伯反抗力量对抗土耳其人。
The performance brought O'Toole the first of eight Academy Award nominations, a flood of film offers and a string of artistic successes in the 1960s and early `70s. In the theater — he was a classically trained actor — he played an anguished, angular tramp in Beckett's “Waiting for Godot” and a memorably battered title character in Chekhov's “Uncle Vanya.”
在该片中的表现令奥图首次获得奥斯卡奖提名（他一共获得过八次该提名），之后片约不断，在20世纪60年代到70年代初取得了一系列艺术上的成功。他亦是一位接受过传统训练的演员，在剧场内曾演绎过贝克特(Beckett)的《等待戈多》(Waiting for Godot)中痛苦、笨拙的流浪汉，以及契诃夫(Chekhov)的《万尼亚舅舅》(Uncle Vanya)中备受打击、令人难忘的万尼亚。
In film, he twice played a robust King Henry II, first opposite Richard Burton in “Becket,” then with Katharine Hepburn as his queen in “The Lion in Winter.” Both earned Oscar nominations for Best Actor, as did his repressed, decaying schoolmaster in “Goodbye, Mr. Chips” and the crazed 14th Earl of Gurney in “The Ruling Class.”
在电影领域，他曾两次出演强悍的亨利国王二世，第一次是在《雄霸天下》(Becket)中，与理查德·伯顿(Richard Burdon)演对手戏，第二次是在《冬狮》(The Lion in Winter)中，凯瑟琳·赫本(Katharine Hepburn)饰演王后。两部影片都为他赢得了奥斯卡最佳男演员奖提名。此外他还曾因在《万世师表》(Goodbye, Mr. Chips)中饰演压抑、老朽的校长，在《豪门怪杰》(The Ruling Class)中饰演疯狂的14代格尼伯爵而获得该提名。
O'Toole threw himself wholeheartedly into what he called “bravura acting,” courting and sometimes deserving the accusation that he became over-theatrical, mannered, even hammy. His lanky, loose-jointed build; his blue eyes; his long, lantern-jawed face; his oddly languorous sexual charm; and the eccentric loops and whoops of his voice tended to reinforce the impression of power and extravagance.
奥图全心投入他自己所谓的“华丽磅礴的表演”，因此有人批评他的表演过于剧场化、矫揉造作，甚至过于夸张，有时这些意见不无道理。他身材修长、关节松弛、一双碧蓝的眼睛，尖瘦的面孔上下巴突出，有着奇异而倦怠的性感魅力，声音中带着奇异的回旋与叫喊，这一切都令他给人留下强大而过分华丽的印象。
Burton called him “the most original actor to come out of Britain since the war,” with “something odd, mystical and deeply disturbing” in his work.
伯顿说他是“战后英国最为独树一帜的演员”，说他的表演中有着“怪异、神秘而又令人深深不安”的东西。
Though he won many lesser awards during his career, triumph at the Academy eluded him, perhaps in part because he had made no secret of his dislike of Hollywood and naturalistic acting, which he considered drab. He was nothing if not ambitious, but success would come on his own terms, not the movie industry's. He had made that plain at 18, when an acting career was already in his mind. In his notebook he made a promise to himself:
尽管他一生中曾获得许多较小的奖项，奥斯卡奖的荣誉却始终与他无缘，或许部分是因为他毫不掩饰地宣称自己讨厌好莱坞和自然主义的表演方式，认为这种表演单调无趣。他雄心勃勃，但何为成功必须是由他自己来定义，而不是依照电影业的标准。这一点他在18岁构思自己的表演生涯时便已表达得很清楚。在笔记本上，他对自己承诺道：
“I will not be a common man. I will stir the smooth sands of monotony. I do not crave security. I wish to hazard my soul to opportunity.”
“我不会成为一个平凡的人，我要在平静单调的沙地上扬起尘土。我不渴望安全，我希望灵魂去经历机运的冒险。”