LONDON — The man, believed to be in his 30s, was fleeing the spectacular explosion of Mount Vesuvius that buried the Italian city of Pompeii in A.D. 79.
伦敦——据信，这名男子30多岁，当时正在躲避公元79年埋葬意大利古城庞贝的维苏威火山大爆发。
He had an infection of the tibia that may have made walking difficult, archaeologists say. So while he fled the first furious eruption, when the volcano fully rumbled to life after being dormant for more than 1,500 years, he did not get very far.
考古学家说，他的胫骨受到了感染，可能使他行走困难。因此，当火山在沉睡1500多年后彻底复活，第一次猛烈地爆发时，他没能逃多远。
The man died not in contorted agony, buried in pumice and ash, but by decapitation from a large block of stone that had most likely been propelled through the air by volcanic gases, crushing his thorax and his head.
这个人不是被埋在浮石和灰烬中，死于扭曲的痛苦，而是被一块很可能由火山气体推动、从天上掉下来大石头砸死，胸腔和脑袋都被压碎了。
Officials at the Pompeii archaeological site announced on Tuesday that they had found the man's remains, almost 2,000 years after he died. They released a photograph showing the skeleton protruding from beneath a large block of stone, believed to have been a door jamb that had been “violently thrown by the volcanic cloud.”
庞贝考古遗址的官员周二宣布，他们在这个人死亡近两千年后发现了他的遗体。在他们公布的一张照片中，只见一副骨架压在一块大石头下面，据信那是一个被“火山云猛烈抛出去”的门框。
The skeleton showed evidence of a bone infection in one leg, which could have hindered the man’s ability to escape “at the first dramatic signs which preceded the eruption,” officials said.
官员表示，骨骼显示一条腿骨有感染的迹象，这可能影响了该男子“在看到火山爆发前第一批戏剧性迹象时”逃跑的能力。
Archaeologists have yet to find his head, though they believe it may lie “probably under the stone block,” according to a statement sent by email on Wednesday.
根据周三通过电子邮件发送的一份声明，考古学家还没有找到他的头颅，不过他们认为它“可能埋在石头下面”。
Massimo Osanna, general director of the archaeological site, called it “an exceptional find” that contributed to a better “picture of the history and civilization of the age.”
考古遗址的负责人马西莫·奥桑纳(Massimo Osanna)称，这是一项“杰出的发现”，有助于更好地“了解那个时代的历史和文明”。
“This discovery has shown the leaps in the archaeological field,” he said in another statement to CNN. “The team on site are not just archaeologists, but experts in many fields: engineers, restorers,” he said, who used technical tools like drones and 3-D scanners.
“这项发现是考古领域的飞跃。”他在另一份对CNN的声明中说。“现场团队不仅有考古学家，还有许多领域的专家：工程师、修复人员，”他说，他们使用了包括无人机和三维扫描在内的科技工具。
“Now we have the possibility to rebuild the space as it once was,” he added.
他补充说：“现在我们有可能把这个地方重建成它曾经的样子。”
It was the second announcement in a week from the excavation of an unexplored part of Pompeii, one of the most-visited archaeological site in the world and a Unesco World Heritage site about 16 miles southeast of Naples.
这是庞贝古城一个尚未勘探部分的挖掘项目在一周内的第二次公告，庞贝古城位于那不勒斯东南约16英里（约合26公里）处，是世界上参观人数最多的考古遗址之一，也是联合国教科文组织(Unesco World Heritage)的世界遗产。
Last week, officials said they had discovered a street of houses with intact balconies that were buried when Mount Vesuvius erupted.
官员们上周称，他们发现了一条街的房子阳台全部保存完好，它们是在维苏威火山爆发时被掩埋的。
Some of the balconies had conical-shape terra cotta vases used to hold wine and oil. The Culture Ministry said the balconies were a “complete novelty” for this part of the buried city, which has yet to be fully excavated.
一些阳台上有锥形的赤陶花瓶，用来盛酒和油。文化部表示，对于这座被掩埋的城市中尚未完全挖掘的这一部分而言，这些阳台是“非常新奇的”。
The statement said the balconies would be restored and the area would be included in a tour for the public, according to The Associated Press.
据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，该声明称，将对这些阳台进行修复，该地区将向公众开放。