CAIRO — Shady el-Ghazaly Harb says he has given up trying to help the military-backed government address its worries about losing the support of young Egyptians.
开罗——沙迪·盖泽利·哈尔卜(Shady el-Ghazaly Harb)说，军方支持的埃及政府担心失去年轻人的支持，但他已经放弃了帮助政府改善这种状况的努力。
After attending three meetings about the issue at the presidential palace in recent weeks, Mr. Ghazaly Harb, a 35-year-old political organizer, rejected the latest invitation because, he said, the authorities have not heeded advice to stop arresting so many young people, or at least to alleviate the grim conditions in the jails where they are held.
最近几周，35岁的政治活动组织者盖泽利·哈尔卜三次前往总统府参加关于这个问题的会议，但他拒绝了最新的邀请，他说，原因是他们劝告当局停止逮捕这么多年轻人，或者至少改善关押他们的监狱的糟糕条件，但当局并未听从。
“A lot of youth groups are saying, We cannot come and sit with you like this while our colleagues are behind bars — we cannot find this ethical,” said Mr. Ghazaly Harb, who played a prominent role in the 2011 uprising against the rule of President Hosni Mubarak and then campaigned for the removal of his Islamist successor, Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood.
“很多青年团体活动者现在跟我说：在同事们身陷囹圄的时候，我们无法若无其事地跟你坐在一起——我们觉得这样很没道义。”盖泽利·哈尔卜说；他曾在2011年反对前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)统治的活动中发挥突出作用，后来又参加了罢黜其伊斯兰派接任者、穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)支持的穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的运动。
A growing number of young Egyptians say the government’s heavy-handed crackdown on any opposition is widening a generation gap, which poses a longer-term threat to stability.
越来越多的埃及青年说，政府对任何反对活动的严厉打击都在拉大代沟，对稳定造成了长期威胁。
Three out of four Egyptians are under 40, and more than two out of three are under 35. With the government’s most important leader, Field Marshal Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, retracing the 60-year-old footsteps of former President Gamal Abdel Nasser — even flying to Moscow last week to try to restart arms deals that were last seen at the height of the Cold War — a chorus of young bloggers and activists are complaining that they feel caught in a time warp.
四分之三的埃及人不到40岁，逾三分之二的埃及人在35岁以下。现政府最重要的领导人、陆军元帅阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)重新走上60岁的前总统贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·纳赛尔(Gamal Abdel Nasser)的老路——上周甚至飞往莫斯科，企图重新启动军火交易，最后一次出现这种情况还是冷战最高潮的时期——很多年轻的博客作者和活动者都在抗议，说他们感觉掉进了时间隧道。
They are lashing out at their parents’ whole generation, who presided over three decades of economic, cultural and political stagnation in Egypt and who now seem to be repudiating the 2011 uprising for interrupting that stasis.
他们在抨击自己父母那一代人；那代人不仅对埃及30年的经济、文化和政治停滞负有责任，现在似乎也在否定2011年打破那种停滞状态的运动。
“Egypt is facing the tragedy of an entire generation incapable and unqualified to deal with their plight,” Mahmoud Salem, a 32-year-old blogger known as Sandmonkey, wrote last month in a widely circulated post.
“埃及正面临着一个悲剧：整整一代人没有应对自身问题的能力和资格，”32岁的博客作者马哈茂德·萨利姆(Mahmoud Salem)上个月在一个广为流传的帖子中写道，他的网名为Sandmonkey。
Even Egyptian popular culture is stuck in a decades-old rut, he argued: People are still laughing at the clownish comedian Adel Imam, now 73; still listening to the pop heartthrob Amr Diab, now 53; and still admiring retouched magazine photographs of the glamorous actress Yousra, now 58. “The very idea of ‘Islamic rule’ and even ‘military coups’ are from the 1980s,” he wrote, calling the current establishment “a generation holding on to the 1980s as tenaciously as a playboy holds on to his youth.”
他认为，就连埃及的流行文化也停留在几十年的老状态：人们还在被现年73岁的滑稽喜剧演员阿德尔·伊玛目(Adel Imam)逗笑，还在听53岁的流行音乐巨星阿姆鲁·迪亚布(Amr Diab)的歌曲，还在欣赏58岁的美艳女星尤斯拉(Yousra)经过润饰的杂志照片。他写道：“‘伊斯兰统治’，甚至“军事政变”的想法都来自于20世纪80年代。”他还说目前掌权者是“牢牢抓着20世纪80年代不放手的一代人，就像花花公子牢牢抓住青春不放手一样。”
The frustrations of young Egyptians propelled the protests that led to the ousters of Mr. Mubarak in 2011 and Mr. Morsi in 2013. Their disaffection came into focus last month when young voters were conspicuously absent from a referendum on a revised constitution.
埃及青年遭受的挫败感，导致穆巴拉克在2011年以及穆尔西在2013年被赶下台。上个月对一部修订过的宪法进行公投时，年轻选民的投票率低得显眼，使大家把目光聚焦到了年轻人的不满情绪上。
The referendum, presented as a show of support for the military takeover, was the first time in a half-dozen national votes over the last three years that young voters did not flood to the polls. Their low turnout set off a public debate about their disaffection, even as the police continued to use deadly force in crackdowns against young people — Islamists, liberals or left-leaning — for staging anti-government protests. Sixty-two protesters were killed in clashes with security forces on Jan. 25, the third anniversary of the 2011 uprising, while a mostly older crowd gathered in Tahrir Square to celebrate Field Marshal Sisi, who is 59.
这次公投被视为一场作秀，用来展示对军事接管的支持，在过去三年的六次全国性投票中，这是第一次没有出现年轻选民纷纷前往投票的情形。年轻人的低投票率引发了大家对他们不满情绪的公开辩论，尽管与此同时警察仍在使用杀伤性武力镇压年轻人——伊斯兰派、自由派，或者左翼的反政府抗议活动。1月25日，即2011年运动三周年纪念日，62名抗议者在与安全部队发生的冲突中丧生，而一个总体年龄较大的人群则聚集在解放广场，讴歌59岁的陆军元帅塞西。
“Gray hairs in the queues, black hairs in the graves,” is the epigram making the rounds among both liberal and Islamist activists, contrasting the referendum voters supporting the new government installed by Field Marshal Sisi with the protesters opposing it.
“白发人排队，黑发人入土，”无论是在自由派还是伊斯兰激进派活动者中，这句话都不胫而走，突出了双方的巨大差异：一方是塞西主导的新政府的支持者，排着队参加那次公投，另一方是反对它的抗议者。
“Youth make up the majority, but the elders are still in control of everything,” Alaa al-Aswany, 56, a novelist and critic who is supportive of the military takeover, warned last week in a column urging the government to listen to the young. For three years, he wrote, “their elders” mocked the youth “and then realized they were right when it was too late.”
在上周的一篇专栏文章中，支持军事接管的56岁小说家及评论家亚拉·阿斯万尼(Alaa Al Aswany)敦促政府倾听年轻人的意见，但警告说，“年轻人构成了埃及人口的大多数，但较为年长的人仍然控制着一切。”他写道，三年来，“长者们”嘲笑年轻人，“然后发现年轻人是对的，但已经为时太晚”。
Younger Egyptians say they grew up hearing advice from their parents to keep their mouths shut and avoid challenging their leaders: “Cowardice is the master of morals,” they would say, or “walk by the wall” to avoid attention.
埃及青年说，他们是听着父母的告诫长大的。父母让他们闭上嘴巴，尽量避免挑战领导者，“懦弱是最好的品行”，父母如是说，而且要“靠着墙边走路”，以便引起注意。
But starting about 10 years ago, the younger generation in Egypt began to rebel against the stultifying stability of Mr. Mubarak’s 30-year rule. They found new ways to express themselves through the Internet, thronged to the “Kifaya” movement against Mr. Mubarak’s monopoly on power, and formed their own grass-roots organizations, like the April 6 Youth Movement.
但是大约10年前，埃及的年轻一代开始反对穆巴拉克30年统治带来的僵化式稳定。他们发现了用互联网来表达看法的新方式，开展了反对穆巴拉克垄断权力的“忍无可忍”(Kifaya)运动，并形成了像“四月六日青年运动”(April 6 Youth Movement)这样的草根组织。
Many saw the Tahrir Square sit-in of 2011 as their generation’s Woodstock, and the overthrow of Mr. Mubarak as their mark on history. “It was a struggle against our parents,” said Mina Fayek, an activist and blogger. “We used to joke, it was easier to stand in front of tanks and bullets than to convince your parents to let you go to Tahrir Square to protest.”
很多人把2011年在解放广场的静坐活动看作他们这代人的伍德斯托克音乐节(Woodstock)，并把推翻穆巴拉克视为自己留下的历史印记。“这是反抗父母的斗争，”活动者和博客作者米娜·法耶克(Mina Fayek)说。“我们曾经开玩笑说，站在坦克和子弹面前比较容易，说服父母让你去解放广场参加抗议活动比较难。”
In his column, Mr. Aswany marveled that “a generation of youth emerged that was like a mutation.” “Fathers who feared entering police stations gave birth to children whom we saw stand without flinching or retreating in front of armored vehicles shooting them,” he wrote.
在专栏文章中，阿斯万尼表达了诧异之情：“一代青年人像基因突变般涌现出来，”他写道。“父亲害怕进警局，他生养的孩子们却在朝自己开火的装甲车前毫不畏惧、绝无退避，”他写道。
Supporters of the 2013 military takeover, though, have often smeared the young activists as a “fifth column” conspiring with foreign powers to undermine security or provide cover to Islamist “terrorists.”
但是，2013年军事接管的支持者常常把年轻活动者抹黑为跟外国势力勾结的“第五纵队”，说他们破坏了公共安全，或者为伊斯兰“恐怖分子”提供了掩护。
“It is not a youth revolution, and it has never been a youth revolution,” Ibrahim Eissa, a 48-year-old pro-military talk show host, declared recently. Addressing an “excited young man who went to a protest and calls himself a revolutionary,“ Mr. Eissa said: “You mistake chaos for revolution. You mistake destruction for revolution. You are an idiot who doesn’t understand!”
“这不是一场青年革命，从来都不是，”48岁的亲军方脱口秀主持人易卜拉欣·艾萨(Ibrahim Eissa)最近表示。他对“一个兴奋地跑去抗议，还称自己是革命者的年轻人”说，“你把混乱误当成了革命。你把破坏误当成了革命。你这个不明事理的白痴！”