Last month, a few days before Mandy Len Catron’s essay “To Fall in Love With Anyone, Do This” appeared in Modern Love, she aired some concerns about the coming exposure on her blog, writing that while a few hundred people may see one of her blog posts, thousands would see this column.
上个月，曼迪·兰·卡特朗(Mandy Len Catron)的文章《如何快速与陌生人相爱》在《纽约时报》“现代恋爱”专栏刊出前几天，她在自己的博客上表示了一些对即将到来的曝光的担忧，她说，她博客上的文章一篇只有几百个人会看，但是那篇专栏却会有成千上万的人看到。
She underestimated by about 8 million.
她没料到是800万读者。
In the essay, Ms. Catron told of how she found love by replicating a 20-year-old experiment by the psychologist Arthur Aron that involved two strangers asking each other 36 increasingly personal questions followed by a four-minute staring session to see if doing so would lead to intimacy and love. For Ms. Catron and the man she barely knew, the experiment worked.
在那篇文章里，卡特朗讲述了心理学家阿瑟·亚伦(Arthur Aron)20年前的一个实验，让两个陌生人互问36个个人化色彩不断增加的问题，接着对视四分钟，看看这样做能否增进彼此的亲密感，并令两人相恋，卡特朗通过复制这个实验觅得了真爱。她和一个不太熟的男人一起做这个实验，最后成功了。
Readers found this combination of romance and science (with a happy ending) irresistible. Ms. Catron’s story went viral, with couples across the country and around the globe trying the questions themselves.
读者觉得这种浪漫与科学的结合（而且还有皆大欢喜的结局）简直令人无法抗拒。卡特朗的故事以病毒级传播，全国乃至全世界的伴侣们都开始尝试这些问题。
The New Yorker and Dame magazine spoofed the experiment with 36 questions about how to fall out of love.
《纽约客》和《Dame》杂志刊登了讽刺戏仿的文章，提出了“36个让人不再相爱的问题”。
One man even posed the questions to his disengaged cat in a YouTube video, which amassed nearly 40,000 views.
有个人甚至拿这些问题来问自己养的那只态度高冷的猫，并把视频上传到YouTube，有将近4万次的点击量。
A ticketed singles event in Manhattan drew 70 hopefuls who paid $40 each to be paired up and guided through the experiment.
在曼哈顿，一个针对独身人士的售票活动吸引了70名参与者，他们愿意花40美元在指导下和人配对，尝试这个互问问题的活动。
The notion of falling in love from a quiz may sound like a gimmick, but the broad resonance of Dr. Aron’s 36 questions may be partly explained by the fact that there is nothing gimmicky about them. In this age of Tinder and self-curated dating profiles, where image and first impressions hold sway, these questions go deep.
通过做测试令陌生人相爱的概念听上去有点像骗人的把戏，但是亚伦的36个问题引起的广泛反响可能部分解释了，这其实不算是什么花招。在一个Tinder交友app和自制约会简历的时代，个人形象与第一印象是最重要的，这些问题就显得深入人心。
But as Dr. Aron cautions, this isn’t an experiment that can be easily repeated with a series of romantic prospects, because you risk having canned answers if you keep using the same questions.
但是正如亚伦博士警告的，这个实验不能在一系列约会中轻松复制，因为多次使用同样的问题，你可能会使用已经准备好的答案。
Since the essay appeared, we have been receiving reports from strangers and longtime couples who have tried the quiz, often armed with one of several quickly created apps featuring the quiz (The New York Times, in consultation with Dr. Aron, has created one as well, available at nytimes.com/36questions).
自从那篇文章发表之后，我们从萍水之交和长期伴侣那里都得到了反馈，很多人都尝试了这个问卷——通常都使用迅速推出的几款帮人们来回答这些问题的app（《纽约时报》咨询了亚伦博士后也做了这样一个app，可在nytimes.com/36questions下载）。
Two weeks after her essay appeared, Ms. Catron was still trying to adjust to what it had wrought. She and her boyfriend were out at a pizza parlor when he took out his phone and started typing. She assumed he was texting someone, but he slid the phone across to her. It read: “the couple next to us is doing the 36 questions.”
卡尔顿的文章刊出两周后，她还在努力适应文章所带来的后果。她和男友出去吃披萨，他拿出手机打字。她原本以为他可能是在给谁发短信，结果他把手机递给她，上面写着：“我们旁边那桌的一对儿正在做36问。”
Sure enough, they were. In that moment, the full impact of her article finally hit home.
没错，他们真的是在做。这一刻，她那篇文章真可谓红到了家。
With Valentine’s Day upon us, we’d like to share a sampling of the stories we have heard. More appear online along with The Times’s 36 Questions App and related stories.
情人节到来之际，我们想分享一些我们听说的例子。网上还有《纽约时报》的36问app和其他相关故事。
Christen Lalonde
克里森·拉隆德
I recently had a first date with a man I met in a parking lot. I was selling a scanner for $20 and he was the buyer. We had emailed to arrange a place and time. He pulled up a few minutes late, beaming a wonderful smile. I give him the scanner, he handed me $20, and I kept wishing there was a way to stall the transaction.
我最近和一个在停车场认识的男人第一次约会。当时我正以20美元出售一个扫描仪，他是买家。我们通过email敲定了见面时间和地点。他迟到了几分钟，脸上露出一个灿烂的笑容。我把扫描仪递给他，他给了我20美元，我希望有办法能让交流继续下去。
I had never understood the adage “When you know, you know,” but I get it now. I went home and emailed him that I was worried I gave him the wrong cable (a lie). He replied that the scanner worked perfectly. We continued a back and forth that culminated in me asking him out for a beer.
我一直没弄懂那句谚语“该知道的时候就知道了”是什么意思，但我现在突然明白了。回到家以后，我给他写了封邮件，说我担心可能给错了连接线（这是瞎编的）。他回信说，扫描仪工作得很好。我们就这样来回写了几封邮件，最后我约他出来喝杯啤酒。
He said he would love to go. In fact, he had been hoping I had given him the wrong cable so we would have an excuse to see each other again.
他说他很想来。事实上，当时他也希望我给错了连接线，好让我们有机会再见一面。
What was supposed to be beers at the local pub turned into a two-hour drive and a walk on the beach. We talked about our families and past relationships. He told me about his divorce and two boys. I told him about leaving the man I was supposed to marry.
我们本来打算在附近的酒吧喝啤酒，结果却变成了开车两小时去海滩漫步。我们谈起家庭和过去的恋情。他告诉我他离婚了，有两个儿子。我告诉他，我和本来打算结婚的对象分了手。
On our drive back into town, I started to tell him about what I had just read in The New York Times, but I only got a couple of sentences in before he said he had read the same piece. We both had been turning it over in our minds ever since.
开车回城的路上，我告诉他我刚刚在《纽约时报》上读到一篇文章，但我刚刚说了几句，他就告诉我，他也读过那篇文章。于是我们都开始想这件事。
That night, we cooked a simple meal at my house and talked long past the time when everything got cold. Over tea and cookies, we decided to try the questions, starting at 11 p.m. and finishing at 2 a.m. We had both cried and laughed. Then we sat under the skylight in my closet and stared into each other’s eyes for four minutes. I was surprised at how quickly the time passed.
当天晚上，我们在我家做了点吃的，聊了很久，直到食物都变凉了。我们一边喝茶，吃饼干，一边决定尝试这些问题。我们从晚上11点开始，凌晨2点结束。两人都是又哭又笑。接着坐在我的房间的天窗下面，凝视着彼此的双眼，四分钟之久。我惊讶地发现，时间过得那么快。
At the end we talked about whether or not we should kiss, each of us saying that it was as if we were past that point already.
最后我们商量要不要接吻，我俩都觉得我们好像已经过了那个点。
He slept over. When we were in bed, I felt like I should say, “I love you.” I didn’t then, but I could see it happening soon. Maybe he and I would have arrived at the same place without having asked the 36 questions, but I doubt it.
后来他睡着了。两人躺在床上的时候，我觉得自己好像说了，“我爱你”。其实我并没有说，但是我能感觉到我很快就会说这句话。或许没有这36问，我们之间的关系也会进展到这一步吧——我没有把握。
Amy Williams
艾米·威廉姆斯
Over the course of two nights with my husband, we answered the questions together over cocktails at our favorite restaurants.
我和丈夫花了两天时间，到我们最喜欢的饭馆去，边喝鸡尾酒边回答这些问题。
This is my second marriage and his first; we met when we were 41 and 39. I have to admit that sometimes, talking about work and the kids can get boring, and answering the questions brought us closer together. It reminded me of when we first met, and frankly, it was kind of hot. It felt like dating again. It was intimate and a good reminder to reconsider that your partner is not just someone to empty the dishwasher with. There are always opportunities to learn more about each other.
这是我的第二次婚姻，是他的第一次婚姻；我们相遇的时候，我41岁，他39岁。我得承认，有时候，聊工作和孩子会很乏味，回答这些问题让我们更亲近了。这让我回忆起我们刚刚相遇的时候，坦白地说，那感情很激烈。有点像再次开始约会。这些问题很亲密，提醒你想起，你的伴侣并不只是那个洗盘子的人。我们总有机会去更加了解对方。
Riley Willis
赖利·威利斯
We did the 36 questions on the last night I would see him for an unknown amount of time. We were already in love but didn’t know what that meant anymore. It’s hard to be in love with someone when you’re apart for months.
我们昨晚做了36问，我不知要再过多久才能再见到他。我们已经相爱了，但不知道这意味着什么。相隔数月，要保持恋情是很困难的。
For the past month we had been together and happy, but in less than 12 hours we would be back to where we were a month ago, far apart and unhappy.
在过去的几个月里，我们在一起很快乐，但再过不到12个小时，我们就要像一个月前那样——分隔两地，闷闷不乐。
Since his flight was early the next morning, we stayed up all night answering the questions. While we have always been open, these questions made us dig deeper into who we were. They made me realize how lucky I was to have this person with me. They made me realize how much I had been taking for granted.
他要坐明天的早班飞机离开，我们整夜未眠，回答这些问题。我们一直都很坦诚，这些问题让我们更加深入地发掘自己内心。它们让我明白，我能和这个人在一起有多么幸运。它们让我明白，我对拥有的一切太理所当然了。
I wanted to be happy with him, but I didn’t know how. We were miserable apart, and I couldn’t think of a way to get out of it.
我想开开心心地和他在一起，但我不知道该怎么做。我们悲伤地分隔两地，我不知道该怎么解决这个问题。
It was 3 a.m. when we got to the last question. It was his turn to answer.
做最后一个问题时，已经是凌晨三点。该他回答了。
“I think we need to take a break,” he said.
“我们休息一下吧，”他说。
A couple of hours later, I kissed him goodbye at the airport and won’t be seeing him until June. The questions cemented that I love him. They didn’t make us fall in love, but they made him brave enough to say what needed to be done. And they made me brave enough to accept it.
几小时后，我和他在机场吻别，要到6月才能和他再相见。这些问题让我确定自己爱他。它们没有让我们相爱，但它们让他勇敢地说出了需要做的事情，它们也让我勇敢地接受了它。
Thank you for allowing this to happen.
感谢你们让这一切发生。
Aleph Xicotencatl
阿利弗·西科腾卡特尔
A couple of weeks ago, I met a guy two years older than me. We clicked and continued talking, mostly through WhatsApp. Two weeks later he seemed to fall for me, and I liked him but felt nothing more. Some of his attitudes bothered me, but I still wanted to see where this went.
几个星期前，我遇到一个比我大两岁的男人。我们一见如故，通过WhatsApp聊个没完。两星期后，他好像喜欢上我了，我也喜欢他，但是没有更多特别的感情。他身上的某些东西让我不舒服，但我仍然想再看看。
He asked me out. While we were at dinner, I told him about this article and the 36 questions, hoping he would react positively. He expressed interest, so we scheduled it for our next date.
他约我出来。共进晚餐的时候，我向他提起关于36问的文章，希望他有积极的回应。他表示了兴趣，于是我们就安排下次约会时回答这些问题。
Our second date arrived, and I still wasn’t feeling it for him, but I had the whole sets of questions prepared, and after lunch we started in. As expected, they became more intimate as we progressed, but we answered them all, sort of, because sometimes he would not give a straight answer.
第二次约会如期而至，我仍然对他没有特别的感觉，但还是准备好了整套问题。吃完午饭，我们就开始回答。如我所料，问题愈来愈亲密，但我们还是算全都回答完了——这么说是因为有时候他并没有诚实地回答。
After we finished, we found out we actually have some deeper things in common, but I also saw some evasiveness from him — a different kind of information I didn’t expect.
回答完这些问题，我们发现我们确实有些深层次的共同之处，但我也发现他身上有些闪烁其词的东西——我并没想到会这样。
Although I didn’t fall in love, the quiz helped me pay more attention to the development of the relationship, which thankfully fell apart not long after when he told me that he still wasn’t over his ex.
尽管我没有爱上他，但这个测验帮我更加关注这段关系的发展，谢天谢地，最后我们没有成功，他告诉我他其实还没有忘掉前女友。
Arindam Jha
阿林达姆·杰哈
I tried the questions with the girl I want to be with. We used to be in a relationship, but she doesn’t want to be with me anymore, and I could not move on.
我和我喜欢的女孩一起做了这个测试，我们曾经恋爱过，但她说她不喜欢我，而我没法忘怀这件事。
We tried the quiz one night in my apartment. She did not have a clue what this quiz was supposed to be about. I hope it works. At the very least, I got to know her more.
一天晚上，我们在我家做了这个测试。她完全不知道这个测试是做什么用的。我希望它能生效。至少也能让我更了解她。
Marina Provenzano
玛丽娜·普罗文扎诺
My partner and I are both in our early 20s and have been together for 2½ years. Tired from school and multiple jobs, we pass out to Netflix most nights. We see each other a lot but aren’t present all of the time.
我俩都是20出头，在一起两年半了。我们厌倦了学校和打工，每晚主要以看Netflix打发时间。我们经常见面，但并不是总在一起。
I pulled up the 36 questions on my phone and we answered them before we went to sleep. I thought we knew most things about each other, but I heard stories I never knew. The questions aren’t things you usually ask someone directly, and the response is powerful because you see another dimension to this person you think you know so well.
我拿出存在手机里的36问，我们在睡前回答了这些问题。我本以为我们已经很了解对方了，但我还是知道了一些之前不知道的事情。这些问题并不是你平时会直接去问别人的问题，这些答案也很有力量，因为它们可以让你看到你本以为自己非常了解的人还有另一面。