Attitudes in Europe toward an America that is regrouping are marked today by extreme ambivalence. Europeans have long been known for finishing their diatribes about the United States by asking how they can get their child into Stanford. These days, European after-dinner conversation tends to be dominated by discussion of the latest episode of “House of Cards” or “Homeland” or “Mad Men.” A French diplomat told me that every meeting he attended at the White House during his tour in Washington ended with one of his party asking if it might be possible to see the West Wing. He found it embarrassing.
如今，欧洲对于正在休整中的美国的态度极为矛盾。我们很早就知道，欧洲人在抨击美国之后，就会开始询问如何把孩子送去斯坦福大学读书。现在，欧洲人的饭后谈资尽是关于美剧最新剧情的讨论，如《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)、《国土安全》(Homeland)或《广告狂人》(Mad Men)。一位法国外交官曾告诉我，他每次去华盛顿在白宫参加会谈，总会有一位同事询问是否能参观白宫西翼楼。他觉得很尴尬。
Europeans complain of the personal data stored or the tax loopholes exploited by the likes of Amazon, Facebook, Starbucks, Google and Twitter, but they are hooked on them all. Google, as recently reported by my colleague Mark Scott, now has an 85 percent share of search in Europe’s largest economies, including Germany, Britain and France, whereas its share of the American market is about 67 percent. American tech companies operate seven of the 10 most visited websites in Europe. Rage at the practices of the National Security Agency is outweighed by addiction to a cyberuniverse dominated by American brands.
欧洲人抱怨亚马逊(Amazon)、Facebook、星巴克(Starbucks)、谷歌(Google)和推特(Twitter)等美国公司储存个人信息或利用税务法规漏洞，但他们却迷上了这些公司的产品。据我的同事马克·斯科特(Mark Scott)最近报道，谷歌目前在德国、英国和法国等欧洲最大经济体的搜索市场占有率达85%，而它在美国本土的搜索市场占有率仅为67%。欧洲访问量最高的10个网站有7个是由美国科技公司运营的。欧洲人对于被美国品牌所主导的网络世界的迷恋超过了他们对美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)侵犯个人隐私行为的愤怒。
The magnetism of Silicon Valley may suggest that the United States, a young nation still, is Rome at the height of its power. American soft power is alive and well. America’s capacity for reinvention, its looming self-sufficiency in energy, its good demographics and, not least, its hold on the world’s imagination, all suggest vigor.
硅谷的吸引力或许表明，美国这个依然年轻的国家，就像鼎盛时期的罗马。美国的软实力依然完好无损。美国具有革新能力，正在实现能源自足，人口结构合理，尤其是它依然能勾起整个世界对它的无限遐想——这些都显示这个国家活力十足。
But geostrategic shifts over the past year indicate the contrary: that the United States is Imperial Rome, A.D. 376, with various violent enemies playing the role of the Visigoths, Huns, Vandals et al.; the loss at home of what Edward Gibbon, the historian of Rome’s fall, called “civic virtue,” as narrow interests paralyze politics; the partial handover of American security to private military contractors (just as a declining Rome increasingly entrusted its defense to mercenaries); the place of plunder rather than productiveness in the economy; and the apparent powerlessness of a leader given to talk of the limits of what the United States can do. There is no record of the Emperor Valens’s saying, as Obama did, “You hit singles, you hit doubles,” but perhaps he thought it.
但是，过去一年地缘政治格局的转变却显示出相反的情况：美国更像是公元376年的罗马帝国，面临各种凶猛的敌人，他们就像罗马时期的西哥特人(Visigoths)、匈奴人(Huns)、汪达尔人(Vandals)等等；随着狭隘利益让政治活动陷入瘫痪，国内则呈现出历史学家爱德华·吉本(Edward Gibbon)在其著作《罗马帝国衰亡史》中所说的“公民美德”的丧失；将部分国家安全工作交给给私人军事承包商（就像正在衰落的罗马逐渐把国防委以雇佣兵）；在经济上重视榨取而不是提高生产率；看似无力的国家领导惯于讨论美国的行动面临的限制。没有纪录显示罗马皇帝华伦斯(Emperor Valens)曾像奥巴马那样说，“我更侧重于一垒安打和二垒安打”，但或许他也这么想过。
Ambivalence is not peculiar to Europe, of course. To heck with the world’s problems, many Americans now say, we have done our share over all these decades of Pax Americana. If China and India are really rising, let them take responsibility for global security, as America took the mantle from Britain in 1945.
当然，极度矛盾的感受不是只有欧洲人才有。如今，很多美国人也会说，去他的世界问题，这几十年，我们在维持“美式和平”(Pax Americana)方面，已经做得够多了。如果中国和印度真的在崛起，就让他们去承担维护全球安全的责任吧，就像美国在1945年从英国那里接过了这一任务。
Barack Obama — professional, practical and prudent — would appear to suit this American zeitgeist. He may not be managing decline but he is certainly resisting overreach. He is not the decider. He is the restrainer.
巴拉克·奥巴马专业、实际而又谨慎，似乎与美国这一时代的思潮相吻合。他或许不能制止衰退，但他肯定在遏制过度扩张。他并不决绝，却颇为审慎。
Why, then, is Obama’s no-stupid-stuff approach to the globe so unpopular? Fifty-eight percent of Americans in a recent New York Times/CBS News poll disapproved of his handling of foreign policy, the highest of his presidency. A strange duality seems to be at work. Americans want the troops to come home. They want investment to prioritize domestic jobs, education, health care and infrastructure.
那么，为什么奥巴马在国际事务上“不做傻事”的策略如此不受欢迎？《纽约时报》/CBS新闻频道(CBS News)最近所做的民意调查显示，58%的美国民众不赞成奥巴马的外交政策，自他上任以来，还没有过这么高的不满率。似乎有一种奇怪的二元论在美国民众头脑中起作用。他们希望美国撤军，希望美国的投资能优先在国内创造就业，在教育、医疗和基础设施建设上发挥作用。
Yet many seem to feel Obama is selling the nation short. They want a president to lead, not be a mere conduit for their sentiments. Americans, as citizens of a nation that represents an idea, are optimistic by nature. It may be true that there is no good outcome in Syria, and certainly no easy one. It may be that Egyptian democracy had to be stillborn. It may be that Vladimir Putin annexes Crimea because he can. Still, Americans do not like the message that it makes sense to pull back and let the world do its worst. America’s bipolarity sees recent bitter experience vying with the country’s innermost nature, its can-do aspiration to be a “city upon a hill.”
然而，许多人似乎都认为奥巴马低估了美国的力量。他们想要一位能发挥领导作用的总统，而不仅仅是一个帮他们抒发情感的渠道。从一国国民代表的理念来看，美国人天性乐观。也许叙利亚的确不会有什么好结局，而就算是有好的结局，也不是伸手可及的。或许，埃及的民主制度已经胎死腹中。或许弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)吞并克里米亚只是因为他有这个能力。然而，美国人还是不喜欢这样一条讯息，即美国理应撤出，对世界的糟糕状况置之不理。美国具有两极性，它最近的惨痛经历与它最深刻的本性——那种成为“山巅之城”的无所不能的热望——发生了矛盾。
It is not easy to read this world of bipolarity (both European and American), Jihadi Springs and Chinese assertiveness. It is too simple, and probably wrong, to say that the United States is in decline.
这个世界具有两极性（欧洲和美国都是如此）、圣战主义者之春频频爆发，中国的态度也愈加强硬，想要解读这个世界并非易事。美国正在衰退的说法太过简单，或许根本就不对。