SOCHI, Russia — ON Feb. 7, the opening day of the Olympics, several people walked out onto Red Square in Moscow. When they attempted to sing the Russian national anthem, all were arrested and taken to the nearest police station. “We were holding small rainbow flags to show support for the L.G.B.T. community,” wrote my protester friend, who found herself taken into custody for the first time in her life.
俄罗斯索契——2月7日奥运会开幕当天，几个人走到莫斯科红场上。当他们试图唱起俄罗斯国歌时，所有人被抓了起来，带去了最近的警察局。“我们当时举着小彩虹旗，表达对男女同性恋、双性恋和跨性别人群(LGBT)的支持，”我一位示威者朋友这样写道。就因为这，她平生第一次被拘留了。
The following day, the police arrested a group that had gathered in Manezhnaya Square, in Moscow. The arrests came immediately after about 60 people unfurled umbrellas in support of Russia’s only independent television channel, Dozhd. The channel was recently dropped by all major cable operators under pressure from the government, which appeared to have been exacting revenge for a viewer poll question it didn’t like.
第二天，警察逮捕了一群聚集在莫斯科驯马场广场的人。当天有大约60人撑开雨伞，表示对俄罗斯唯一一家独立电视频道“雨”(Dozhd)的支持，他们立即遭到了逮捕。近来，所有主要有线电视运营商都在政府的压力之下，停止播出该频道。政府看来是对“雨”在观众民意调查中所提的一个问题不满，因此施加了报复。
The question was: “Would it have been better to surrender Leningrad to the Nazis during World War II in order to save hundreds of thousands of lives?” One question — deemed “unpatriotic” — and the channel is on the verge of closing. Simply because President Vladimir V. Putin knows best how one should love one’s country.
这个问题就是：“为了成千上万生命免于一死，是不是二战时把列宁格勒交给纳粹反而会更好？”因为一个被认为“不爱国”的问题，这家电视频道濒临倒闭。只是因为总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在如何爱国这个问题上最有发言权。
This week in Sochi, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, another member of Pussy Riot, and I were detained three times and then, on Wednesday, assaulted by Cossack militiamen with whips and pepper spray. Mr. Putin will teach you how to love the motherland.
这个星期在索契，我和Pussy Riot的另一名成员娜杰日达·托罗克尼科娃(Nadezhda Tolokonnikova)三次被捕，然后在周三，手拿鞭子和胡椒喷雾剂的哥萨克民兵攻击了我们。普京会教你如何热爱自己的祖国。
More than $50 billion was sunk into the construction of Olympic venues — giant, meaningless, alien objects whose purpose is to feed the ego of the country’s president, elevating him to the rank of a pharaoh or emperor. The host city of Sochi has essentially become a closed military facility. Access to the city is restricted and will remain so for another month after the Olympics end.
为了奥运场馆的建设，这个国家已经投入了超过500亿美元（约合3000亿元人民币）。这些巨大的、毫无意义的建筑物与周遭环境格格不入，它们就是为了满足我们国家总统的虚荣心，提升他的地位，进入法老或帝王的行列。奥运主办城市索契实质上已经成为了一座封闭的军事设施。进出这座城市是受到严格限制的。而且它还会在奥运会结束后一个月内维持这种状态。
Environmentalists’ concerns about illegal construction, enabled by corrupt business dealings, are well founded. Mr. Putin has turned the wartime siege of Leningrad into a sacrosanct event, all while imposing a new siege on Sochi.
环保人士对于因腐败商业交易而产生的非法建设感到十分不安，他们这么想是有充分理由的。普京在将索契变为一座围城的同时，就已将战时的列宁格勒围城变为一件神圣不可侵犯的事。
Can a pharaoh shut down a city, can he declare a blockade in time of peace? Yes, if he lives and rules in Russia. This is how Dozhd came to be denounced by the government — for posing a question about a siege during a siege.
法老可以关闭一座城池，可以在和平时期宣布封锁吗？是的，如果他在俄罗斯居住并施行统治。这就是“雨”频道遭到政府谴责的原因，因为它在围城期间提出了一个有关围城的问题。
The face of these Olympics is deceptive, as is the entire authoritarian regime. At first, the authorities do not strike out at you directly. Rather, they systematically force you to adopt the only stance they deem proper, which is to move passively, apolitically, through the entire chain of post-Soviet institutions, from primary school to the grave.
和这些奥运会赛事的欺骗性外表一样，整个威权主义政权也是欺骗性的。一开始，政府并没有向人们直接发动攻击。而是有计划地迫使你接受在他们看来唯一合适的立场，也就是说被动地、不带任何政治观点地从后苏联体制中穿行而过，从小学到坟墓。
Nikolai Zabolotsky, a Russian avant-garde poet who was repressed under Stalin and spent eight years in exile, compared progressing through life’s stages to being transferred through the gulag’s series of transit prisons. The realities of the Stalin era made the voicing of a direct metaphor like this necessary, even at the cost of losing one’s freedom.
俄罗斯先锋派诗人尼古拉·扎波洛茨基(Nikolai Zabolotsky)受到了斯大林的打压，度过了8年的流放生活，他将走过生命的不同阶段比作从古拉格(gulag)的一个中转监狱转移到下一个中转监狱。由于斯大林时代的现实情况，以这样的直接隐喻表达观点是有必要的，即使是以失去自由为代价。
The reality of contemporary Russia, and Mr. Putin’s goal, is to kill such metaphors — by force, if necessary — and to kill the reflection, analysis and criticism they carry. The quasi-fascist direction of this regime over the past 13 years depends on this deadening of the intellect. For as soon as obliviousness ends, so does Mr. Putin’s power.
而当代俄罗斯的现实以及普京的目标，就是扼杀这样的隐喻——如果必要的话，还会诉诸武力——同时扼杀这些隐喻所蕴含的反思、分析和批评。在过去13年，这座政权的准法西斯路线依赖于这种对思考力的抑制。一旦这种漠然的状态结束，普京的权力也将终结。
Those who are writing about the Olympics and who are currently present at the Games should not fall into this forgetfulness, because it is fatal. When you talk about the Olympics — whether you like it or not — you are talking about Russia. For this is a country where people are arrested for waving umbrellas and little flags, where they are sent to penal colonies, like the environmental activist Yevgeny Vitishko, for writing a slogan like “the forest is for everybody” on a governor’s fence, and where they may be sentenced to five or six years in prison for voicing their dissent against the status quo.
在写这届奥运会的人，正在比赛现场的人，都不应该陷入这种漠然的状态，因为这是致命的。当你谈论本届奥运会时，不管你是否愿意，你就是在说俄罗斯。因为在这个国家里，人们会因为挥舞雨伞和小旗子而被捕，会像环保活动人士叶夫根尼·维提斯科(Yevgeny Vitishko)那样被送到流放地关押，仅仅是因为他在区长家的围栏上写下“森林属于所有人”这样的口号，他们也会因为表达对现状的不满而被判入狱五六年。
Because of their dissent, the most honest people in our country are currently in jail as defendants in the Bolotnaya Square case. They came to the Moscow square on May 6, 2012, to join a protest against fraud in the presidential elections, and they chanted, “Putin, get out!” They were beaten with truncheons by riot police officers, arrested, jailed and put on trial.
目前，我们国家最诚实的那些人都因为他们的异见而关在监狱里，就像沼泽广场(Bolotnaya Square)一案中的那些被告那样。2012年5月6日，他们来到莫斯科的这座广场上，加入示威的人群，反对总统选举中的舞弊行为，他们高呼，“普京，走开！”他们遭到手持警棍的防暴警察的痛打，然后被捕、被关押，被审判。
For the past year and a half, they have had to make repeated appearances in a kangaroo court, where, day after day, they are being silently tortured as part of Mr. Putin’s broader policy. On Feb. 5, they made their final pleas; their verdicts are due on Feb. 21.
在过去一年半的时间里，他们不得不一再出现在一个袋鼠法庭(kangaroo court)上。在那里，他们日复一日无声无息地遭到酷刑折磨，这是普京整体政策的一部分。2月5日，他们做了最后陈词；对他们的判决定于2月21日宣布。
This story is bigger than the Olympic venues, bigger even than the Olympics. This is a story about the real Russia of today. It exists, and the price of its existence is prison sentences for innocent people who speak out.
这件事本身要比奥运场馆重要，甚至比奥运会重要。这有关当今俄罗斯的真面目。它存在着，而它存在的代价就是对那些大声表达意见的无辜之人的监刑。