JERUSALEM — For the second time in three days, the Israeli Air Force struck the Gaza Strip on Thursday night in response to rockets fired earlier from Gaza into Israel, continuing a new wave of violence that has complicated peace talks.
耶路撒冷——以色列空军周四晚间空袭了加沙地带，以回应早些时候从加沙射向以色列的火箭弹，这是三天以来的第二次。新一波的袭击活动让和平谈判的前景更加复杂。
The Israeli military said in a statement that it had attacked a weapons manufacturing plant and a weapons storage facility. Witnesses in Gaza said that F-16 fighter jets had hit an open space in northern Gaza City and a training facility south of the city; Gaza medical officials said one resident suffered minor injuries.
以色列军方在一份声明中称，他们袭击了一个武器制造厂和一个军火库。加沙的目击者称，多架F-16战斗机袭击了加沙城北部的一片开放空间，以及该城南部的一处训练设施；加沙医疗官员说，一名居民受了轻伤。
The airstrikes came after two rockets landed near the Israeli city of Ashkelon on Thursday — one just after midnight, the other in the evening. Neither caused injuries or damage. On Tuesday, a Palestinian sniper fatally shot an Israeli who was repairing the security fence bordering Gaza, prompting airstrikes and tank and infantry fire that killed a small child in Gaza and wounded several of her relatives.
空袭发生前的周四，两枚火箭弹落在了以色列城市亚实基伦附近——其中一枚发射于午夜之后不久，另一枚发射于傍晚。两枚火箭弹都没有造成人员伤亡或损失。周二，巴勒斯坦的一名狙击手枪杀了一名正在维修加沙边境的安保围栏的以色列人，引发了空袭以及坦克和步兵的袭击，导致加沙一名幼童死亡，她的多名亲属受伤。
The exchanges were the most significant since a cease-fire agreement between Israel and the militant Hamas faction that controls the Gaza Strip was signed in November 2012, after eight days of intense cross-border violence. Earlier Thursday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel warned that Hamas would be held responsible even if other groups, like Islamic Jihad, actually fired the rockets from Gaza.
上述交火是以色列和控制加沙地带的激进派系哈马斯签订停火协议之后最严重的一次。在为期八天的激烈交火之后，双方于2012年11月签订了停火协议。周四早些时候，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu) 警告说，即使是伊斯兰圣战组织(Islamic Jihad)等其他组织发射了这些火箭弹，哈马斯也要负责。
“We will strike at those who attack us, and at those who support them,” he said at an air force graduation ceremony, hours before the evening attack.
在发生夜间袭击的几个小时之前，内塔尼亚胡在空军的一个毕业典礼上说，我们将会打击那些攻击了我们的人，以及他们的支持者。
Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, an Israeli military spokesman, said in a statement that Gaza had become “a heinous sanctuary for rocket terrorism,” adding, “We will not tolerate daily aggression from the Hamas-ruled territory and are morally obligated to act against those threatening our communities, our towns and our cities.”
以色列军方发言人彼得·莱诺尔(Peter Lerner)中校在一份声明中说，加沙已经成为了“火箭弹恐怖袭击的十恶不赦的避难所，”他补充说，“我们不会容忍每天来自哈马斯领地的侵犯活动，我们在道义上有责任针对威胁我们社区、城镇和城市的人员采取行动。”
Besides the airstrikes, Israel closed its lone commercial crossing into Gaza on Wednesday, halting the transfer of badly needed fuel and preventing farmers from exporting strawberries. The director of Gaza’s sole power plant, which sputtered back to life on Dec. 15 thanks to a donation of diesel from Qatar after being shuttered for six weeks, said it would go dark again at 6 a.m. on Friday.
除了空袭，以色列周三还关闭了进入加沙的唯一商业通道，中断了加沙急需的燃油的运输，并阻止农民出口草莓。加沙唯一的电厂的负责人说，周五早上六点又要停电了。此前，在关闭了六个星期后，这家电厂于12月15日才开始重新运转，这还多亏了卡塔尔捐赠的柴油。
“We get fuel day by day,” said Rafik Maliha, the plant’s director. “If Israel doesn’t reopen the crossing point tomorrow, the station will be turned off.”
这家电厂的负责人拉菲克·马力哈(Rafik Maliha)说，“我们按天获得燃油，如果以色列明天不重新开放商业通道，电站就得关门。”
Gaza’s 1.7 million Palestinian residents had been without electricity for up to 18 hours a day when the power plant was not operating, and some sewage pumping stations had overflowed into streets.
在电厂关门的日子里，居住在加沙的170万巴勒斯坦人一天有18个小时用不上电，一些污水处理厂的污水都溢到了街上。
The increase in violence in recent days has raised new questions about the American-brokered peace negotiations that started in July.
在美国的调停下，双方于7月开始了和平谈判，而最近几天袭击活动的增多引发了人们对新和谈的质疑。
Israel is scheduled to release 26 long-serving Palestinian prisoners, the third of four promised releases, early next week. Despite pleas from Washington and European envoys, Israel is expected to couple the release with an announcement of further construction in Jewish settlements in the West Bank, something Palestinian leaders have said threatens the viability of the talks.
以色列定于下周头几天释放26名长期服刑的巴勒斯坦囚犯，这是以色列承诺释放的四批囚犯中的第三批。尽管华盛顿和欧洲的特使提出了请求，预计在释放囚犯的同时，以色列还将宣布在约旦河西岸进一步扩大犹太人定居点的规模。巴勒斯坦领导人已经表示，此举将威胁到和平谈判进程。