JERUSALEM — Israel barred all access to a contested sacred site in the Old City for the first time in many years on Thursday, a step that a Palestinian spokesman denounced as “a declaration of war” and one that strained Israel’s crucial alliance with neighboring Jordan.
耶路撒冷——本周四，以色列全面禁止人们进入老城(Old City)存在争议的一片圣地。这种情况还是多年来第一次发生。此举不仅被巴勒斯坦发言人斥为“宣战”，也导致以色列与重要盟友邻国约旦之间的关系变得紧张。
By nightfall, Israel moved to ease the simmering hostility by announcing the site, which Jews call the Temple Mount and Muslims the Noble Sanctuary, would reopen Friday morning. But the authorities said that Muslim men under 50 would be barred from prayers, as they have been frequently in recent weeks, and that Israeli police officers would be out in force. Palestinian leaders called for a mass protest.
在夜幕降临前，以色列为了平息行将爆发的怒火，宣布该场所将在周五上午重新开放。该场所被犹太人称为圣殿山(Temple Mount)，穆斯林则称之为神圣禁地(Noble Sanctuary)。不过以色列当局表示，将禁止50岁以下的穆斯林男子在该场所祈祷，最近几周来，经常有这样的男子在那里祈祷。当局还表示，将出动以色列警察到该场所。巴勒斯坦领导人则呼吁举行大规模抗议活动。
The rare closing came after an Israeli counterterrorism unit killed a Palestinian man suspected of trying the night before to assassinate a leading agitator for increased Jewish access to the site, a cause that has fueled clashes at the site. It also followed months of rising tension and violence across the deeply divided city of Jerusalem, where Israel recently added 1,000 police officers in an effort to ward off what some experts warn could become a third Palestinian intifada, or uprising.
以色列做出关场的罕见决定，是因为以色列反恐部队打死了一名涉嫌在头一天晚上试图刺杀知名激进活动人士的巴勒斯坦男子；那名活动人士宣扬要提高该场所对犹太人的开放程度。此外，数月以来，在深度分裂的耶路撒冷，暴力和紧张局势持续发酵，一些专家警告说，那里有可能发生第三次巴勒斯坦起义，为了避免出现这样的情况，以色列最近在城里新增了1000名警察。
There is no more sensitive place in Jerusalem than the revered plateau where the ancient Jewish temples once stood — and where some extremists propose erecting a third one — and where thousands of Muslims now worship daily at Al Aqsa Mosque and the Dome of the Rock.
目前在耶路撒冷，最敏感的地方就是这片曾经矗立着古代犹太寺院的神圣高地了——一些极端分子建议在这里修建第三座犹太寺院——数以千计的穆斯林目前也在这里的阿克萨清真寺(Al Aqsa Mosque)和岩石圆顶清真寺(Dome of the Rock)做每日礼拜。
Jordan’s king is the Aqsa’s official custodian, so its fate has implications beyond the Israeli-Palestinian conflict — on Thursday, the Jordanian minister of Islamic affairs called the closing “state terrorism by the Israeli authorities.” In 2000, a visit to the site by the future Israeli prime minister Ariel Sharon, accompanied by 1,000 Israeli police officers, helped ignite the violent second intifada.
阿克萨的正式庇护人是约旦国王，所以它的影响并不局限于巴以冲突——本周四，约旦的伊斯兰事务大臣说关场决定是“以色列当局在搞国家恐怖主义”。2000年时，后来的以色列总理阿里埃勒·沙龙(Ariel Sharon)在1000名以色列警察的陪伴下造访该场所，加速引燃了极其暴力的第二次起义。
“You are dealing with flammable material — it would be wise not to meddle in the business of holy places,” said Mustafa Abu Sway, dean of Islamic studies at Al Quds University and a member of the Islamic Waqf council, a trust that administers the site. “The average person is very upset. People are angry, and people are sad.”
“你是在处理易燃材料——不要干涉圣地的事情会比较明智，” 圣城大学(Al Quds University) 伊斯兰研究学系主任、伊斯兰宗教财产委员会(Islamic Waqf)成员穆斯塔法·阿布·斯维(Mustafa Abu Sway)说；该委员会是负责管理该场所的一个基金会。“这让普通人感到气恼，人们既愤怒又悲伤。”
East Jerusalem has been boiling since the start of summer, when a Palestinian teenager was kidnapped and killed in an apparent revenge attack for the earlier abduction-murder of three Israelis in the occupied West Bank. Some 800 youths have been arrested, accused of throwing stones or firebombs.
刚入夏的时候，一名巴勒斯坦少年遭到绑架并被杀害，行凶者似乎是在采取报复行动，因为之前在被占领的约旦河西岸，有三名以色列人遭到绑架和杀害。自那之后，东耶路撒冷的局势就变得极为紧张。当局已经逮捕了大约800名年轻人，指控他们投掷石块和燃烧弹。
Events escalated further when a Palestinian driver plowed into a group of pedestrians  in the northern part of Jerusalem last week, killing a 3-month-old Israeli baby and a young woman, and on Monday when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel pushed forward plans to expand two Jewish neighborhoods considered illegal settlements by most of the world.
上周，在耶路撒冷北部，一名巴勒斯坦司机开车冲向一群行人，导致一名3个月大的以色列婴儿和一名年轻女子丧生；本周一，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)推动了扩张两个犹太居民区的计划，而世界上大多数国家都认为它们是非法定居点。这些事件导致了紧张局势的进一步升级。
Jerusalem’s 300,000 Arabs, the vast majority of whom have permanent residency but not Israeli citizenship, complain of neglect both by City Hall and by the Palestinian leadership in the West Bank, making the situation especially volatile.
耶路撒冷有30万阿拉伯人口，其中绝大多数拥有永久居留权，但却没有以色列公民身份，他们抱怨，自己遭到了市政府和西岸的巴勒斯坦领导层的无视。这让局势变得尤其不稳定。
“There are three axes that have come together, leading to escalation and the potential danger of a loss of control,” said Udi Dekel, a former Israeli general and peace negotiator, citing the kidnapping, settlement activity and Temple Mount activism, and poverty and discrimination in the city’s Arab neighborhoods.
“三个因素交织在一起，就有可能导致状况升级和失控，”退役将军、前和谈代表乌迪·德克尔(Udi Dekel)说，他提到了绑架、定居点活动和圣殿山激进行动、贫困和阿拉伯居民区里的歧视言行。
Nabil Abu Rudeineh, the spokesman for President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority, called the closing “a grave act” that would “add to the tensions and instability and create a dangerous atmosphere.” The Jordanian minister, Hayel Daoud, urged the international community to pressure Israel to lift the ban right away, the latest in a series of unusually harsh criticism by Jordanian leaders, including an extremely rare rebuke by King Abdullah himself.
巴勒斯坦民族权力机构主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)的发言人纳比尔·阿布·鲁代纳(Nabil Abu Rudeineh)说，关场“是件大事”，将“加深紧张情绪和不稳定性，制造一种危险气氛。”约旦宗教事务大臣哈耶勒·达沃德(Hayel Dawood)呼吁国际社会向以色列施加压力，让他们解除禁令。约旦领导人最近对以色列做出了一系列不寻常的严厉批评；就连阿卜杜拉国王本人也出言斥责，实属罕见。
“Jordanians feel the latest actions taken by Israel are directed against Jordan this time, not only against Palestinians,” said Jawad Anani, a former Jordanian foreign minister and deputy prime minister. “His Majesty is reflecting the anger domestically. If anything happens to Al Aqsa under his guardianship, there will be huge consequences inside and outside of Jordan, so there’s a lot of pressure.”
“约旦人觉得，以色列最近采取的行动不仅是在针对巴勒斯坦人，还把矛头指向了约旦，” 前约旦外交大臣、副总理贾瓦德·阿纳尼(Jawad Anani)说。“国王陛下的发言体现了约旦国内的愤怒情绪。如果他庇护的阿克萨发生什么事情，就会在约旦国内国外引发重大后果，所以这里的压力非常大。”
Mr. Netanyahu on Thursday condemned the shooting of the Jewish activist, Yehuda Glick, as “an act of terrorism.” He accused his Palestinian counterpart of inciting violence, pointing to a recent speech in which President Abbas called on his people to defend the mosque compound from Jewish encroachment “by all means.”
内塔尼亚胡周四谴责称，枪击犹太活动人士耶胡达·格利克(Yehuda Glick)是“恐怖主义行径”。他指责巴勒斯坦领导人煽动暴力，把矛头指向了阿巴斯近期进行的一次演讲。在那次讲话中，阿巴斯呼吁民众“尽一切手段”让清真寺院落免受犹太人的侵蚀。
“I have ordered significant reinforcements, so that we can maintain both security in Jerusalem and the status quo in the holy places,” Mr. Netanyahu said after an emergency session with his security team. “This struggle might be long, and here, like in other struggles, we must first of all lower the flames.”
与安全团队召开紧急会议后，内塔尼亚胡表示，“我已下令大力进行增援，以便我们既能保障耶路撒冷的安全，又能维持圣地的现状。这项艰巨的事业或许将耗费很长时间，在这件事情上，与其他艰巨的事业一样，我们必须首先平息事态。”
Led by Mr. Glick and a small band of other activists and right-wing politicians, Jewish visits to the Temple Mount have increased over the past several years, along with protests of the Israeli police’s prohibition of non-Muslim prayer at the site. Some 8,500 Jews ascended the mount last year, up from about 5,800 in 2010, according to the Israel police.
在格利克等一小群活动人士和右翼政界人士的带领下，伴随着针对以色列警方在圣殿山上实施的非穆斯林祷告禁令的抗议活动，过去几年间前往此处的犹太人有所增加。根据以色列警方公布的数据，去年有大约8500名犹太人攀登此山，而2010年的数字为5800人。