JERUSALEM — An Israeli missile strike on an 11-story apartment tower in Gaza City brought the entire building crashing down on Saturday, soon after its residents were told to evacuate, according to residents and the military. The attack signaled Israel’s willingness to take more audacious military action in Gaza, as Palestinian militants continued to fire barrages of rockets and mortar rounds into Israel.
耶路撒冷——居民和军方表示，在通知加沙城一栋11层公寓楼的居民撤离后不久，以色列发起导弹袭击，导致整栋大楼倒塌。这次攻击表明，随着巴勒斯坦武装分子继续频繁向以色列发射火箭弹和迫击炮弹，以色列已经准备好在加沙采取更大胆的军事行动。
Ten people were wounded in the strike on the apartment building, four of them children, according to a health ministry spokesman in Gaza.
加沙卫生部的一名发言人表示，在对该栋公寓楼发起的袭击中，10人受伤，包括4名儿童。
Earlier in the day, the government of Egypt and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority issued calls in Cairo for a new, open-ended cease-fire in Gaza and a resumption of indirect talks between the Israelis and the Palestinians to try to bring an end to the fighting, which shows no sign of abating after more than six weeks. Mushir al-Masri, a Hamas official in Gaza, said in a statement that the Palestinian groups were studying Egypt’s call to return to negotiations. Israel refuses to negotiate under fire.
当天早些时候，埃及政府和巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)在开罗呼吁在加沙实施新一轮期限不定的停火，同时呼吁以色列和巴勒斯坦恢复间接会谈，尝试结束这场持续了六周多依然没有缓解迹象的战争。加沙的哈马斯官员马希尔·马斯里(Mushir al-Masri)在一份声明中表示，巴勒斯坦各方正在考虑埃及的恢复和谈提议。以色列拒绝在遭受攻击的情况下谈判。
The Israeli military said the apartment building contained an operational command and control center of Hamas, the Islamic militant group that dominates the Palestinian coastal territory, and that operatives were using the building as a base for their activities. Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the Israeli military, could not immediately specify which floor, or floors, of the building were the targets in the attack, or whether the intention had been to destroy the whole tower.
以色列军方称该公寓楼里有哈马斯的一个行动指挥和控制中心，特工人员把该楼用作活动基地。哈马斯是一个伊斯兰派激进组织，控制着这个巴勒斯坦沿海地区。以色列军方发言人、陆军中校彼得·勒纳(Peter Lerner)无法当场具体指出此次攻击的是该栋大楼的哪一层，或哪几层，以及攻击的意图是否本来就是摧毁整栋大楼。
The military said residents of the building, known as Al Zafer Tower 4, were given warning by telephone and by means of a small warning missile fired at the roof.
军方表示曾通过电话以及向楼顶发射一枚火箭弹以示警告的方式，向那座名为扎菲尔4号(Al Zafer Tower 4)的公寓楼内的居民发出警告。
Israel has fired missiles to destroy apartments within a building, but this was the first time since the start of its military offensive on July 8 that a strike had completely brought down so large a building.
此前，以色列也曾发射导弹摧毁建筑物内的住所，但这是自7月8日其军事攻击开始以来，首次将这么大一栋楼房完全摧毁的袭击。
Hesham Saqallah, a father of four who lived on the first floor, said a resident received a warning call about 6 p.m. and started shouting in the stairwell to alert his neighbors to leave. About 20 or 30 minutes later, he said, a missile fired from a drone hit the roof, and about 20 minutes after that, a warplane struck.
住在一楼的希沙姆·萨卡拉(Hesham Saqallah)是四个孩子的父亲，他说一位居民在大约下午6点时接到警告，随即在楼道里呼喊，警告邻居们离开。他说，大约二三十分钟以后，一架无人机发射的导弹击中屋顶，又过了大概20分钟，一架战机也开始对它发起袭击。
Mr. Saqallah said there were 42 apartments in the building and that it was purely residential, with no offices.
萨卡拉说，这栋楼里共有42套公寓，全部是住房，没有办公室。
As for the Israelis’ claim that the building housed a Hamas base, he said, “They are lying.”
对于以色列称这里有个哈马斯基地的说法，他说，“他们在撒谎。”
“I did not take anything from my home, even my money, because I thought they would hit a specific apartment or floor,” Mr. Saqallah said. “I did not expect they would bring down the entire tower.”
“我没有拿走家里的任何东西，连钱都没拿，因为我觉得他们会攻击某个特殊公寓或某一层，” 萨卡拉说。“没想到他们会炸毁整栋楼。”
The attack followed airstrikes on Thursday that killed three senior Hamas commanders, and the attempted assassination on Tuesday night of the chief of Hamas’s military wing, Mohammed Deif, whose fate remains unknown.
在此次袭击之前，周四的空袭共导致三名高级哈马斯指挥官死亡；周二夜间，以色列曾试图暗杀哈马斯军事部门指挥官穆罕默德·戴夫(Mohammed Deif)。戴夫目前下落不明。