JERUSALEM — At Jerusalem’s bustling Mahane Yehuda market, a traditional bastion of support for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s conservative Likud Party, Israeli divisions played out among the fruit and vegetable stalls on Sunday as Mr. Netanyahu departed for Washington with plans to deliver a contentious speech on the Iranian nuclear threat before a joint meeting of Congress.
耶路撒冷——对于以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)所在的保守党利库德集团(Likud Party)，耶路撒冷繁华的马哈耐·耶胡达(Mahane Yehuda)市场历来都是它的一个支持者大本营，但在周日，内塔尼亚胡启程前往华盛顿，预备在美国国会的一个联席会议上发表关于伊朗核威胁的争议性言论时，以色列国内的意见分歧，在该市场的水果和蔬菜摊位上体现了出来。
“This is the best step he could take,” Avraham Levy, 63, a merchant, said of the speech in which Mr. Netanyahu is expected to deliver a strong warning against a possible deal being discussed to limit Iran’s nuclear activities. The address has set Mr. Netanyahu on a collision course with the Obama administration.
“走出这一步已经是他最好的选择了，”谈到内塔尼亚胡的演讲时，63岁的商人亚伯拉罕·利维(Avraham Levy)说。针对正在讨论的限制伊朗核活动的协议，内塔尼亚胡可能会在演讲中发出强烈警告，因而可能会在他与奥巴马政府之间产生隔阂。
“When six million Jews were murdered in the Holocaust nobody came and saved us,” Mr. Levy said as he sold bananas and avocados below a fading portrait of Menachem Begin, the Likud founder who became the first Likud prime minister. “We were slaughtered like sheep. We can only rely on ourselves,” he said. If Mr. Netanyahu could persuade a few Democrats to cross the aisle, Mr. Levy added, perhaps the whole Iran deal could be thwarted.
“当六百万犹太人在大屠杀中被杀害时，没人来救我们，”在贩卖香蕉和鳄梨的利维说，在他上方有利库德集团创始人、首位利库德出身的总理梅纳赫姆·贝京(Menachem Begin)的一幅褪色的画像。“我们就像羊一样被宰杀。只能靠自己。”利维还说，如果内塔尼亚胡可以说服一些民主党人改变立场，也许就能挫败整个伊朗交易。
Rivka Alkalai, 84, a retired civil servant who defined herself as a centrist on the Israeli political map, shook her head and tut-tutted in disapproval.
84岁的阿克莱·里夫卡(Alkalai Rivka)是一名退休公务员，自称在以色列的政治版图中属于中间派。她摇摇头，发出不赞同的啧啧声。
“You don’t blatantly go and fly in the face of your good friends,” Ms. Alkalai said of Mr. Netanyahu and the Americans. “He will only do harm,” she said as she shopped for green beans and celery.
“你不能公然跟你的好朋友唱对台戏，”阿克莱这样评价内塔尼亚胡和美国人的关系。“他这样做没好处，”她一边说，一边在选购刀豆和芹菜。
Mr. Netanyahu’s speech to the Republican-led Congress, set for Tuesday, is not only proving divisive in the United States, where he is being accused of interfering in American politics and damaging a decades-old alliance based on bipartisan support for Israel. It is also taking place in the highly charged period before Israel’s March 17 elections and has spawned an increasingly fraught debate in Israel about the potential benefits versus the risk of damaging to the crucial Israeli-American relationship.
内塔尼亚胡面向共和党主导的国会演讲定于本周二进行。美国有人指责内塔尼亚胡干预本国政治，给一直得到两党大力支持的、有几十年历史的美以同盟制造了裂痕，而他的讲话不仅将证明美国国内意见不统一，而且还定在以色列3月17日大选之前，这在以色列国内催生了日益激烈的争论：演讲的潜在好处，是否值得冒着破坏至关重要的以美关系的风险。
More broadly, Israelis are now questioning whether Mr. Netanyahu, who is running for a third consecutive term, is Israel’s savior against the Iranian nuclear threat, which many here regard as existential, or whether his Iran policy has, instead, been an abject failure, with Iran apparently on a course to gain the potential to produce nuclear weapons regardless.
在更宽泛的层面上，很多以色人都认为伊朗核威胁确实存在，他们对正在争取第三次连任的内塔尼亚胡发出了质疑：他究竟是可以解除伊朗核威胁的救世主呢，还是说，他的伊朗政策会惨淡收场，而伊朗早晚都会具备生产核武器的潜力。
“I am leaving for Washington on a fateful, even historic, mission,” Mr. Netanyahu said before his departure on Sunday. “I feel that I am the emissary of all Israelis, even those who disagree with me, of the entire Jewish people.”
“我此番前往华盛顿，是带着一个决定性的、甚至是历史性的任务去的，”内塔尼亚胡周日出发前说。“我觉得自己是全体以色列人的使者，即使有些犹太人并不赞同我的做法。”
Adding gravitas to the occasion, Mr. Netanyahu was photographed offering a prayer the night before at the Western Wall, and at his desk handwriting the address in a bold script.
内塔尼亚胡在深夜时分前往西墙祈祷，并在他的办公桌前用粗体字手书发言稿的照片，愈发突显他的郑重其事。
Still, many here remained unconvinced.
尽管如此，还是有很多以色列人不为所动。
Adir Ben-Nahum, 28, a medical student who said he was generally liberal and left-leaning, described Mr. Netanyahu as “brilliant, but unfortunately only at politics.” The speech to Congress, he said, was “a dangerous political exercise” intended to bolster Mr. Netanyahu’s standing in the Israeli elections.
28岁的医科生阿德尔·本-那洪(Adir Ben-Nahum)说自己总的来说属于自由派和左翼，他称内塔尼亚胡“人很聪明，但糟糕的是，他的聪明只体现在政治上”。他说，面对美国国会讲话是“一个危险的政治举动”，目的是提高内塔尼亚胡在国内选举中的胜算。
That popular criticism has now been bolstered by prominent voices from Israel’s security establishment. A group of nearly 200 former military and intelligence officials called on Mr. Netanyahu to cancel the speech, an unusually public challenge. At a news conference in Tel Aviv on Sunday, several of the former officers and officials warned that Mr. Netanyahu’s policies were endangering the strategic alliance with the United States and were actually bringing Iran closer to a nuclear bomb.
像这样的批评现在很常见，一些以色列安全机构的重要人士也表达了认同。将近200名前军事和情报官员员呼吁内塔尼亚胡取消演讲，这是一个不同寻常的公开挑战。周日在特拉维夫的一个新闻发布会上，几位前任文武官员警告说，内塔尼亚胡的政策正在危害以美战略联盟，实际上反而让伊朗离核弹更近了一步。
“It is hard for me to come out against Bibi,” said Amiram Levine, a retired general, referring to Mr. Netanyahu by his nickname. Noting that he had recruited Mr. Netanyahu into the elite Sayeret Matkal unit and was his commander there, Mr. Levine said, “I taught Bibi navigation, how to get to the goal, and this time I regret that I have to say, ‘Bibi, you made a mistake in navigation, the goal is in Tehran, not in Washington.’ ”
“我是不情愿站出来反对Bibi的，”退役将军阿米拉姆·莱文(Amiram Levine)说，Bibi是内塔尼亚胡的绰号。他表示，自己曾将内塔尼亚胡招入作为精锐部队的参谋本部侦搜队(Sayeret Matkal)，是他在那里服役时的指挥官。莱文说，“我教过Bibi怎么导航，怎么接近目标，但这一次很遗憾，我不得不说，‘Bibi，你在导航上犯了一个错误，我们的目标是德黑兰，不是华盛顿。’”
Meir Dagan, the former chief of Israel’s Mossad spy agency, has described Mr. Netanyahu as “the person who has caused the greatest strategic damage to Israel on the Iranian issue.”
以色列情报机构摩萨德(Mossad)的前负责人梅尔·达甘(Meir Dagan)称内塔尼亚胡“在伊朗核问题上，对以色列造成了最严重的战略破坏”。
In an interview published in the Yediot Aharonot newspaper this weekend, Mr. Dagan, who has been critical of Israel’s leaders before, said Mr. Netanyahu’s conduct was likely to motivate the American administration to hurry to reach a deal with Iran. “How would Obama explain not reaching a deal?” Mr. Dagan said. “That Netanyahu persuaded him? Or the Republicans?”
本周末发表在《新消息报》(Yediot Aharonot)上的一则访谈中，以前也曾批评以色列领导人的达甘说，内塔尼亚胡的举动，可能会促使美国政府加紧与伊朗的谈判，尽快达成协议。“奥巴马要怎么解释没有达成交易？”达甘说。“因为内塔尼亚胡说服了他？还是共和党说服了他？“
On Sunday, Secretary of State John Kerry, seeking to soothe the bruised relations between Washington and Tel Aviv, said on ABC’s “This Week” that Mr. Netanyahu was welcome to speak in the United States. The two men spoke by telephone on Saturday.
上周日，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)试图缓解华盛顿和特拉维夫之间不愉快的关系，他在ABC的《本周》(This Week)中表示，欢迎内塔尼亚胡到美国演讲。两人上周六通了电话。
Israel says that a proposal under consideration that would strictly limit, for at least 10 years, Iran’s ability to produce nuclear material in exchange for an easing of sanctions, would allow thousands of Iranian centrifuges to continue spinning and enriching uranium — a far cry from Israel’s demand for zero enrichment and the complete dismantlement of Iran’s nuclear infrastructure and capabilities.
以色列表示正在考虑一个提议，将对伊朗的核材料生产能力进行至少10年的严格限制，以换取对伊制裁的放宽，并允许数以千计的伊朗离心机继续旋转，进行铀浓缩——以色列曾要求伊朗完全停止铀浓缩，并彻底拆除其核基础设施和能力，与这个提议相去甚远。
Top Israeli officials and experts say the concern expressed by Mr. Netanyahu is genuine and legitimate. But that has not stopped internal criticism about his approach from growing, and becoming louder.
以色列高级官员和专家说，内塔尼亚胡表达的这种忧虑是真实而正当的。但国内对他做法的批评还是越来越多，越来越响亮。