WASHINGTON — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel used one of the most prominent platforms in the world on Tuesday to warn against what he called a “bad deal” being negotiated with Iran to freeze its nuclear program, bringing to a culmination a drama that has roiled Israeli-American relations for weeks.
华盛顿——本周二，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在一个极受世界注目的讲坛上发出警告，反对美国正在与伊朗磋商的一项协议，并称该项旨在冻结伊朗核计划的妥协很“糟糕”。一场扰乱美以关系数周之久的事件也就此达到了高潮。
In an implicit challenge to President Obama, Mr. Netanyahu told a joint meeting of Congress that Iran’s “tentacles of terror” were already clutching Israel and that failing to stop Tehran from obtaining nuclear weapons “could well threaten the survival of my country.” The deal Mr. Obama seeks will not prevent a nuclear-armed Iran, he said, but “will all but guarantee” it.
内塔尼亚胡的讲话对美国总统奥巴马隐隐提出了质问，他在国会联席会议上表示，以色列已经被伊朗的“恐怖触角”所缠绕，如果不阻止伊朗取得核武器，“很可能就会对我国的生存形成威胁。”他说奥巴马谋求的妥协不能阻止伊朗拥有核武器，只会起到反作用。
“We must all stand together to stop Iran’s march of conquest, subjugation and terror,” Mr. Netanyahu told the lawmakers, who responded with repeated standing ovations.
“我们必须同心协力，阻止伊朗征服、压制别国，并且制造恐怖的脚步，”内塔尼亚胡对议员们说。他的发言赢得了多次起立鼓掌。
Less than two hours later, Mr. Obama sharply rebutted Mr. Netanyahu’s speech before he attended a meeting with the new defense secretary, Ashton B. Carter. Mr. Obama offered a vigorous defense of the deal he has proposed to Iran and argued that the Israeli leader’s speech was “nothing new” and offered no other credible approach.
之后不到两小时，奥巴马在与新任国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)参加一个会议时，尖锐反驳了内塔尼亚胡的讲话。对于自己建议与伊朗达成的妥协，奥巴马极力做出了辩护。他表示，以色列领导人的讲话“毫无新意”，并未提出其他令人信服的方法。
“The prime minister didn’t offer any viable alternative,” Mr. Obama said. He added: “The alternative the prime minister offers is no deal, in which case Iran will immediately begin once again to pursue a nuclear program, accelerate its nuclear program, without us having any insight into what they’re doing and without constraints.”
奥巴马说，“内塔尼亚胡没有提出任何可行的替代方案。”他又表示：“他提出的替代方案就是不作妥协，如果这么做，伊朗就会立即重启核计划，并且加快速度，放开手脚，而我们根本无从知晓他们在做什么。”
Mr. Netanyahu’s address, by far the most anticipated speech to Congress by a foreign leader in many years, has generated resentment and support from different quarters while driving a wedge between Democrats and Republicans. While the Israeli leader was escorted to the rostrum by a bipartisan delegation of lawmakers and greeted with raucous enthusiasm, especially by Republicans, more than 50 Democrats skipped the event.
内塔尼亚胡的讲话，是多年以来外国领导人在国会的发言中最受期待的一次，一些人表达了不满，另一些人则表示支持。他的讲话同时也成为了民主党和共和党之间的一个矛盾焦点。虽然陪同内塔尼亚胡走上讲坛的议员们来自两个政党，而且他也受到了议员们，尤其是共和党人的热情欢迎，但有50多名民主党议员没有到场。
Mr. Netanyahu tried to defuse some of the political tension that preceded his arrival by praising Mr. Obama for all he has done to support Israel. Mr. Netanyahu cited several instances when he had called the president for help, such as seeking more missile interceptors during Israel’s military operations against Hamas. “I will always be grateful to President Obama for that support,” Mr. Netanyahu told lawmakers.
为了化解在他抵达之前出现的紧张的政治气氛，内塔尼亚胡称赞了奥巴马为以色列提供的各种支持。内塔尼亚胡列举了几次向奥巴马求助的例子，比如在以色列打击哈马斯的军事行动时，以方曾向美国寻求支援导弹拦截器。“我将永远感激奥巴马总统的支持，”内塔尼亚胡向议员们表示。
And he repeated a comment he made elsewhere on Monday lamenting the furor that had surrounded his visit. “I deeply regret that some perceive my being here as political,” he said. “That was never my intention. I want to thank you Democrats and Republicans for your common support for Israel, year after year, decade after decade.”
内塔尼亚胡对于他此行引发的众多议论表达了惋惜，他重申了本周一在其他地方发表的评论。“一些人觉得我来这里是玩政治手腕，对此我深感遗憾，”他说。“那从来都不是我的本意。我要感谢民主党和共和党这数十年来，对以色列年复一年的共同支持。”
But he did not succeed in mollifying all Democrats. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the party’s House leader, appeared agitated on the floor during the speech and later issued a statement saying she “was near tears” because she was “saddened by the insult to the intelligence of the United States” and “the condescension toward our knowledge of the threat posed by Iran.”
但他并未成功地安抚所有民主党人。讲话过程中，众议院少数党领袖、加利福尼亚州众议员南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)在席间表现激动。后来她发表声明，称自己“差点落泪”，因为讲话侮辱了“美国的情报能力”，而且“倨傲地揣度了美国对于伊朗威胁的了解”，这令她感到难过。
Mr. Netanyahu argued that Iran remained as radical and untrustworthy as ever, even though it and the United States were effectively on the same side in battling the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. “This regime will always be an enemy of America,” Mr. Netanyahu said. “Don’t be fooled. The battle between Iran and ISIS doesn’t turn Iran into a friend of America. Iran and ISIS are competing for the crown of militant Islam.”
内塔尼亚胡认为，尽管在对抗伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）时，伊朗和美国实际上站在了同一战线，但伊朗仍然相当激进，不值得信任。“这一政权将永远是美国的敌人，”内塔尼亚胡说。“不要被他们愚弄。伊朗和ISIS之间的纷争，并不会让伊朗成为美国的朋友。伊朗和ISIS是在角逐激进伊斯兰主义的王座。”
Sitting in the packed gallery of the House chamber were Elie Wiesel, the Holocaust survivor and Nobel Peace Prize winner; Sheldon G. Adelson, the Republican casino magnate and one of Mr. Netanyahu’s main backers; and Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was out of the country, so standing next to Speaker John A. Boehner behind the Israeli prime minister was Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican who serves as president pro tempore of the Senate.
众议院议事大厅的旁听席里坐满了人，包括大屠杀幸存者、诺贝尔和平奖获得者埃利·威塞尔(Elie Wiesel)；共和党赌场大亨、内塔尼亚胡的主要支持者之一谢尔登·G·埃德森(Sheldon G. Adelson)；前众议院议长纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)。副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)不在国内，所以和约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)议长并肩站在以色列总理身后的是参议院临时议长、犹他州参议员奥林·G·哈奇(Orrin G. Hatch)。
For Mr. Netanyahu, the stakes could hardly be higher. Coming just two weeks before Israeli elections, the speech offered an opportunity to build support at home for another term while rallying opposition abroad to a diplomatic accord that he sees as a threat to his country’s security.
这应该是内塔尼亚胡最大手笔的豪赌了。在以色列大选仅仅两周之前发表这个讲话提供了一些机会，让他有可能在国内谋求连任的竞选中赢得支持，同时在国外召集同盟，反对这个他认为将对以色列安全构成威胁的外交协议。
At the heart of the dispute between Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu is a debate over the best way to curb Iran’s nuclear program. The United States, along with European allies, Russia and China, has been negotiating a potential deal in which Iran would agree to restrict the number of centrifuges it has for enriching uranium for at least 10 years and to open its program to international inspection.
遏制伊朗核计划的最佳途径是什么，这是奥巴马和内塔尼亚胡分歧的核心。美国连同欧洲盟友、俄罗斯和中国，已经在就一项可能的妥协进行磋商：伊朗需要同意，至少在10年时间里限制其用来进行铀浓缩的离心机的数量，并且开放其核计划供国际官员检查。
The goal would be to limit Iran’s capacity so that it would take at least a year to build a nuclear weapon should it choose to violate or break the agreement. In theory, that would give the West enough time to respond. In exchange, international sanctions on Iran’s economy would be eased.
这样做的目的是限制伊朗的核能力，就算伊朗要触犯或破坏协议，它至少也需要一年时间才能造出一件核武器。因此，西方国家理论上就有足够的时间来做出回应。作为交换，国际社会将会放宽对伊朗的经济制裁。
Mr. Netanyahu argued that Iran could not be trusted, saying it had a history of cheating and hostile statements about Israel. The deal being contemplated would give away far too much, he contended. Instead, Mr. Netanyahu advocated demanding that Iran give up all uranium enrichment.
内塔尼亚胡认为，伊朗是不能信任的，称伊朗过去就曾背弃过承诺，发表过关于以色列的敌对言论。内塔尼亚胡说，正在考虑中的这个交易做出了太多让步，应该要求伊朗完全放弃铀浓缩活动。
The speech came even as Secretary of State John Kerry and Mohammad Javad Zarif, the Iranian foreign minister, continued their talks in Switzerland. In comments published on Tuesday in the Iranian news media, Mr. Zarif bluntly rejected the conditions Mr. Obama outlined for Iran’s nuclear program, which officials have insisted is only for civilian uses.
内塔尼亚胡发表讲话之际，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和伊朗外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)正继续在瑞士举行会谈。伊朗媒体本周二称，扎里夫直截了当地回绝了奥巴马关于伊朗核计划的条件。伊朗官员坚称其核计划只涉及民用。
“Iran will not accept excessive and illogical demands,” Mr. Zarif was quoted as saying. “It is clear that Obama’s comments are meant to win the U.S. public opinion and counter the propaganda campaign by the Israeli prime minister.”
“伊朗不会接受不合逻辑的过分要求，”媒体引述扎里夫的话说。“很显然，奥巴马的评论旨在赢得美国舆论的支持，并对以色列总理的宣传活动予以反击。”
But in separate if sparse public comments in Montreux, Switzerland, Mr. Zarif was more conciliatory. “We’re trying, we’re trying,” he responded to a shouted question about how the negotiations were going.
但扎里夫在瑞士蒙特勒单独发表一则略显简短的公开评论时，表现得却更加温和。当时有人高声发问，双方的谈判进行得如何，他回答说，“我们正在努力，正在努力。”
In Israel, where Mr. Netanyahu’s speech to Congress has proved no less contentious than in America, political analysts praised his rhetorical skills. But they said it was unclear whether the speech would have any impact on the future of Iran’s nuclear program, or whether it would help or hinder Mr. Netanyahu’s chances of being re-elected to a third consecutive term in the March 17 elections.
内塔尼亚胡对美国国会发表的讲话，在以色列引起的争议不比在美国少。政治分析人士称赞他能言善辩，但也表示，目前还不清楚这对伊朗核计划的未来是否会产生影响，对于内塔尼亚胡在3月17日的选举中谋求第三次连任而言，也不清楚此番讲话是否会起到帮助或妨碍的作用。
“There was nothing really new here for Israelis,” said Gadi Wolfsfeld, a professor of political communications at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, Israel. “On the one hand you have people getting up and cheering in Congress, and on the other people here are asking whether it was worth causing such damage” to Israel’s relations with the Obama administration.
“对以色列民众来说，真的没什么新意，”以色列荷兹利亚跨学科中心(Interdisciplinary Center)的政治传播学教授加迪·沃尔夫斯菲尔德(Gadi Wolfsfeld)说。“一方面，你在国会让人们起立欢呼，另一方面，国内的人质疑值不值得”给以色列与奥巴马政府之间的关系“造成这样的伤害”。
All of Israel’s major television channels broadcast the speech, but with a five-minute delay mandated by the Israeli Central Elections Committee to give local news editors time to block out any sections that could be construed as violating Israel’s strict election propaganda laws. Nothing was censored.
以色列的主要电视频道全都播出了讲话，但以色列中央选举委员会(Central Elections Committee)下令直播延时五分钟，目的是让国内的新闻编辑有时间剪掉一切可能被认为违反以色列严格的选举宣传法的内容。但演讲内容并未受到删减。
Shelly Yacimovich of the Zionist Union said that Mr. Netanyahu had spoken to Congress in more subdued tones than usual, a sign, she said, that he was aware of the need to minimize the diplomatic damage he had caused.
犹太复国主义联盟(Zionist Union)的谢莉·雅西莫维奇(Shelly Yacimovich)表示，内塔尼亚胡在国会演讲的语气比平常更加克制。她说，这一迹象显示，他明白需要把对外交关系的破坏降到最低。
Isaac Herzog, the Zionist Union leader who is challenging Mr. Netanyahu for the premiership, gave a speech that was timed to air after Mr. Netanyahu’s address, and that he delivered, symbolically, in an Israeli community in southern Israel near the troubled border with Gaza.
犹太复国主义联盟的领袖艾萨克·赫尔佐格(Isaac Herzog)对内塔尼亚胡的总理职位发起了挑战。赫尔佐格也发表了一场演讲，播出时间安排在内塔尼亚胡的讲话结束后。赫尔佐格发表演讲的地点颇具象征意义，是以色列南部的一个社区，邻近动荡的以色列加沙边界。
“There is no doubt that Netanyahu knows how to give speeches,” Mr. Herzog said. But the speech in Congress, he said, “will not stop Iran going nuclear.”
“毫无疑问，内塔尼亚胡懂得怎么发表演讲，”赫尔佐格说。但他表示，在美国国会的演讲“不会阻止伊朗发展核能力”。
Mr. Herzog said the speech had delivered “a harsh blow to American-Israeli relations,” adding, “Only through cooperation with the United States can we stop the Iranian nuclear program.”
赫尔佐格称，内塔尼亚胡的讲话给了“美以关系沉重的一击”，并接着表示，“只有通过与美国合作，我们才能阻止伊朗的核计划。”
Mr. Obama and his team said they shared Mr. Netanyahu’s concerns, but considered his approach unrealistic.
奥巴马及其团队表示，他们认同内塔尼亚胡的担忧，但认为他的方式不现实。
Simply insisting that Iran forgo enrichment altogether “is not a viable negotiating position,” said Susan E. Rice, the president’s national security adviser, at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee conference on Monday evening. And military strikes, often favored by hawks, would only temporarily set back Iran’s program, she said.
周一傍晚，奥巴马总统的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)在美国以色列公共事务委员会(American Israel Public Affairs Committee)的会议上表示，只是坚持要求伊朗完全放弃铀浓缩“是一种不可行的谈判立场”。她说，常受鹰派青睐的军事打击，只能暂时阻碍伊朗的核计划。
“We cannot let a totally unachievable ideal stand in the way of a good deal,” she said.
“我们不能让一个完全无法实现的理想，阻碍一项好协议的达成，”她说。
Ms. Rice vowed to hold out for a verifiable pact. “Our approach is distrust and verify,” she said, in a twist on a phrase made famous by President Ronald Reagan during negotiations with the Soviet Union. And she reassured Israel of Mr. Obama’s support. “We have Israel’s back, come hell or high water,” she said.
赖斯宣称，会寻求达成一项可以证实的协定。“我们的方针是‘质疑并求证’，”她说。这句话改编自罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)与苏联谈判时的一句名言，“信任但求证”。赖斯还保证以色列会得到奥巴马总统的支持。“无论出现什么困难，我们都支持以色列，”她说。
Mr. Netanyahu’s speech divided American lawmakers. Mr. Boehner had invited the Israeli leader without consulting the White House, seeing Mr. Netanyahu as a forceful voice challenging Mr. Obama’s foreign policy.
内塔尼亚胡的演讲让美国议员之间出现了分歧。博纳未咨询白宫便邀请了这位以色列领导人，视其为挑战奥巴马外交政策的有力声音。
“This is an important message at an important time, and the prime minister is the perfect person to deliver it,” Mr. Boehner said in a video released on Tuesday morning.
“这是在重要时刻的重要讲话，以色列总理是发表这一讲话的最佳人选，”博纳在周二上午发布的一段视频中说。
Democrats bristled at what they saw as a partisan maneuver, and at least 55 House and Senate Democrats planned to skip the address, according to the newspaper The Hill.
民主党大为光火，认为此事是党派计谋。据《国会山报》(The Hill)报道，参众两院总共至少有55名民主党议员计划回避演讲。
Few congressional appearances by foreign leaders have generated such controversy. Mr. Netanyahu had addressed Congress twice before, in 1996 and 2011, without such a ruckus, and his speech on Tuesday was the eighth time an Israeli leader has spoken to the House and Senate together.
几乎没有哪个外国领导人在国会的亮相引起过这样的争议。此前，内塔尼亚胡曾在国会发表过两次演讲，分别是在1996年和2001年，均未引起这样的喧哗。他周二的演讲，也是以色列领导人第八次同时向参众两院发表演讲。
The only other foreign leader to have spoken to Congress three times was Winston Churchill, the British prime minister during and after World War II. In honor of that, Mr. Boehner planned to present Mr. Netanyahu with a bust of Churchill.
另一名曾三度在国会发表讲话的外国领导人，是曾在二战期间和战后担任英国首相的温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)。为了表示纪念，博纳打算送给内塔尼亚胡一尊丘吉尔的半身像。
The flap has raised Mr. Netanyahu’s profile in the United States, but he remains a polarizing figure. Early last month, Gallup, the survey firm, found that 45 percent of Americans had a positive view of him, a 10-point jump since a similar poll in 2012, compared with 24 percent who viewed him unfavorably. But the views broke down sharply along party lines, with Republicans favoring Mr. Netanyahu three to one and Democrats evenly split.
演讲引发的争论提升了内塔尼亚胡在美国的形象，但他依然是一个有争议的人物。上月初，调查公司盖洛普(Gallup)发现，45%的美国人对其持正面态度，与2012年一项类似调查中的结果相比，提升了10个百分点。对他持负面态度的受访者比例为24%。不过对他的态度会因支持的党派不同，而出现显著差异。共和党人中，支持内塔尼亚胡和反对内塔尼亚胡的比例为三比一，而民主党人则是半对半。
In a separate poll by The Wall Street Journal and NBC News late last month, 48 percent of voters disapproved of inviting Mr. Netanyahu to address Congress without checking with the White House first, compared with 30 percent who approved.
在《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)和NBC新闻频道(NBC News)上个月底进行的另一项调查中，48%的选民不赞成事先不和白宫确认，就邀请内塔尼亚胡在国会发表讲话，赞成这种做法的选民比例为30%。