Last Tuesday, as most of the fashion flock was filing into the Palais de Chaillot to watch the Armani Privé haute couture show — idly musing, perhaps, on whether or not Caviar Kaspia might have a free table one evening or whether Emma Watson would appear in yet another front row — Leah Perez, the head of the fashion program at Shenkar College of Engineering and Design, the pre-eminent fashion college in Israel, was attending a different kind of show, wondering about very different kinds of questions. The kinds of questions that would probably never occur to her peers at the Istituto Marangoni or Central Saint Martins or the Fashion Institute of Technology.
上周二，当绝大多数的时尚人士鱼贯进入夏悠宫(Palais de Chaillot)观看阿玛尼(Armani)高级定制时装秀，一边胡思乱想卡斯皮亚鱼子酱店(Caviar Kaspia)哪天晚上会有空位、艾玛·沃特森(Emma Watson)是否会出现另一场时装秀的头排时，以色列出类拔萃的时装学院——申卡工程与设计学院(Shenkar College of Engineering and Design)的时装课程负责人利亚·佩雷斯(Leah Perez)正在参加另一种时装秀，思考着非常不同的问题。她在马兰欧尼学院(Istituto Marangoni)、中央圣马丁学院(Central Saint Martins)或时装技术学院(Fashion Institute of Technology)的同行们，恐怕永远都不用去想她思考的那种问题。
“It was about 6:30 p.m., and we were starting the first of two graduate shows,” she said. “There were about 700 people in the audience: parents and tutors and journalists and celebrities, like the actress Keren Mor and the architect Amir Mann. The music was very loud, as it usually is in a show, so you couldn’t really hear anything else. And then all of a sudden everyone started getting text messages on their mobile phones that the sirens were going off, and the rockets were coming to Tel Aviv. We were in a big exhibition space with no bomb shelter. So I had to decide if we should evacuate or not.”
“当时是晚上6点半前后的样子，我们刚开始两场毕业秀的第一场，”她说，“大约有700名观众，包括学生的父母、导师、记者和名人，比如女演员克伦·莫尔(Keren Mor)和建筑师埃米尔·曼(Amir Mann)。和大多数时装秀一样，音乐声很大，所以你基本上听不到其他声音。突然，每个人都收到一条手机短信，说警报响了，火箭弹正朝特拉维夫飞来。我们在一个没有防弹掩体的大展厅里。所以我必须决定是否撤离。”
She decided not. “The students deserved to have their work be seen,” she said. “And life goes on, no matter what is happening outside. Almost no one left. There was a kind of electricity in the air, and a sense that we were defying the situation. But afterward I could not sleep at all. I just kept thinking of all those people I had been responsible for. ...”
她决定不撤离。“我们应该观看学生们的作品，”她说，“生活总得继续，不管外面发生什么。几乎没有人离开。空气中有一种强烈的紧张情绪，有一种我们在与大环境对抗的感觉。但结束之后我完全睡不着。我一直想着所有那些人，我对他们负有责任……”
The idea that fashion is worth this kind of risk — that fashion would matter at all in a conflict zone amid questions of life and death and geopolitical diplomacy — may strike most people as anomalous, and possibly even absurd.
大部分人可能认为为了时尚这样冒险不值当，甚至有点荒谬。他们甚至可能认为在一个涉及生死和地域政治外交的冲突地带，时尚无关紧要。
Indeed, even before the current conflict in the Gaza Strip began, when I told friends I was going to Israel to explore its fashion world, the response was largely a raised eyebrow and something of a snort, the implication being, “Don’t they have more serious issues to think about than clothes?”
的确，甚至在加沙地带目前的冲突开始之前，当我告诉朋友们我要去以色列探索那里的时尚产业时，大部分的人反应是扬起眉毛，带点轻蔑地哼一声，像是在说，“难道他们没有比服装更严重的事情需要考虑吗？”
“I know it seems ridiculous,” Ms. Perez said. “I was in school during the Yom Kippur War, which was terrible. And we were studying about Picasso’s wife. And I said to the tutor, ‘Really, who cares about Picasso’s wife?’ But it becomes a statement about the belief that good and beauty will prevail. Otherwise what is the option? That you succumb to hatred and ugliness?”
“我知道这似乎有点荒谬，”佩雷斯说，“赎罪日战争(Yom Kippur War)期间我在上学，当时的情况很可怕。我们在研究毕加索的妻子。我对导师说，‘说真的，谁在乎毕加索的妻子呢?’ 但是它变成了关于善与美将永存的信仰之宣言。不然的话，你要怎样？向仇恨与丑陋屈服吗？”
It’s not a rhetorical question nor is it only an Israeli issue. Rather, Ms. Perez’s words are emblematic of an unexpected truth: In almost every country that is traditionally considered a danger zone, there is fashion.
它不是反问句，也不只是以色列独有的问题。佩雷斯的话反映了一个出人意料的事实：几乎每一个传统上被认为是危险地带的国家都有时尚存在。
There is fashion in Afghanistan. Ukraine held its Fashion Week in Kiev in March during the height of the political turbulence over the Russian occupation. Zambia, one of the poorest 30 countries in the world, has a Fashion Week. Last year, Colombia held a big celebration in honor of the 25th anniversary of inexModa, its fashion and textile industry showcase, which included a show from the designer Haider Ackermann held before Colombia’s first lady, various ambassadors and the mayor of Medellín, in an effort to change the national narrative from the drug trade and its related death toll to the fashion trade.
阿富汗存在时尚。今年3月乌克兰在基辅举办了自己的时装周，当时正值俄罗斯占领引发的政治动荡的高潮。赞比亚是世界上最穷的30个国家之一，也有自己的时装周。去年哥伦比亚举办了一个盛大的庆典，纪念哥伦比亚服装出口协会(inexModa)成立25周年，该协会致力于展示哥伦比亚的服装和纺织业。其中一场关于设计师海德·艾克曼(Haider Ackermann)的展览邀请哥伦比亚第一夫人、各国大使和麦德林市长参观，意在改变人们提到哥伦比亚时只会想到毒品交易或与时尚业相关的死亡人数。
In Israel, Ms. Perez’s fashion program has more than doubled in size, going from about 25 in each class in 1994, when she first took over, to 41 graduates this year, with 60 in the entering class. Though Shenkar has traditionally been the best known of the fashion colleges, two competing schools, the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design in Jerusalem and WIZO Haifa Academy of Design and Education, are also enjoying increasing popularity. And three years ago, Tel Aviv Fashion Week was restarted after a 30-year hiatus, this despite the fact that of all the young designers who graduate from Israeli design schools, go abroad for internships and then return to introduce their own lines, only half, if that, are still in business a decade later.
在以色列，佩雷斯的时装课程的规模扩大了一倍多，1994年她刚接手时每班大概25人，今年每班有41名毕业生，刚入学的每班有60名学生。尽管申卡在传统上被视为以色列最著名的时装学院，但是另外两个竞争对手——耶路撒冷的贝扎雷艺术与设计学院(Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design)和国际犹太复国主义妇女组织的海法设计与教育学院(WIZO Haifa Academy of Design and Education)，也越来越受欢迎。三年前，特拉维夫时装周在停办30年后重新启动——虽然从以色列设计学校毕业、去国外实习后回国开创自己服装品牌的年轻设计师中只有一半的人十年后仍在从事这个行业。
Partly this is a function of trying to be an entrepreneur in a tiny market where high-end fashion brands are largely eschewed in favor of high street names, including two major Israeli companies, Castro and Renuar. But even beyond the obvious problems, there are issues specific to Israel that mitigate against introducing new fashion labels: the death of the local textile industry, once among the biggest in the world; the rise of cheap foreign brands like H&M; and a lack of formal structure. (There are no showrooms, and stores take most clothes on consignment, meaning if they don’t sell, the designer is responsible for the excess inventory; and there is no central governing body like the Council of Fashion Designers of America or the Camera Nazionale della Moda in Italy.)
出现这种状况的部分原因是，在这个很小的市场开创事业不容易。这个市场避开大多数高端时装品牌，更青睐街头品牌，包括两个主要的以色列公司——卡斯特罗(Castro)和雷奴阿(Renuar)。但是除了这些显而易见的麻烦之外，以色列的一些特有问题也不利于开创新的时装品牌：当地纺织业已经消亡，它曾在世界上居于数一数二的位置；便宜的外国品牌涌入，比如H&M；缺乏正规的构成（没有展示空间，商店大多是寄售服装，意思是如果衣服卖不出去，设计师要负责处理剩余的库存；没有美国时装设计师协会或意大利国家时尚协会这样的中枢管理机构）。
Not to mention tepid government support compared with, say, an industry like technology, and the fact that, as Assaf Shem-Tov, a young designer who founded the brand Colle’cte with her husband, Tal Drori, said, “I think a lot of the money goes to the army.”
更别提政府对服装业的支持远不如对科技等产业那么热心。阿萨夫·闪姆-图夫(Assaf Shem-Tov)是一名年轻设计师，她和丈夫塔尔·德罗里(Tal Drori)创立了Colle’cte这个品牌。她说，“我觉得很多钱都花到了军队上。”
Yet, although there are Israeli fashion success stories outside Israel — Alber Elbaz, the much-feted creative director at Lanvin, who is a Shenkar graduate; Gottex, the swimwear brand founded in Tel Aviv in 1956; the New York designers Elie Tahari and Yigal Azrouël; Kobi Halperin, another Shenkar alumnus who is creative director at Kenneth Cole — most of the graduates at Shenkar continue to dream of working in their homeland, not the fashion capitals of Paris or Milan.
不过，在以色列之外存在着以色列服装业的成功故事——朗万(Lanvin)备受赞扬的创意总监阿尔伯·埃勒巴兹(Alber Elbaz)是申卡的毕业生；泳衣品牌高太丝(Gottex)是1956年在特拉维夫创立的；纽约设计师埃利·塔哈瑞(Elie Tahari)和依盖尔·埃斯茹艾尔(Yigal Azrouël)、凯尼斯·柯尔(Kenneth Cole)的创意总监科比·霍尔珀林(Kobi Halperin)也是申卡的校友——但是申卡的毕业生大多仍梦想着在祖国工作，而不是在时尚之都巴黎或米兰工作。
Naim K. Qasim, for example, a young Arab designer who graduated from Shenkar in 2001, worked in New York, Istanbul and Italy before returning in 2007 to “bring my vision to my community.” He operates an atelier in the Arab community of Tira with his sister making one-off dresses for special occasions. Nadav Rosenberg, who briefly interned for David Koma in London after graduating from Shenkar in 2010, opened his label Northern Star, which has a light, graphic urban aesthetic, in 2012. Mr. Rosenberg only recently managed to move out of his parents’ home, which was also his studio, to open a live/work/boutique space in Tel Aviv.
例如，2001年从申卡毕业的年轻的阿拉伯设计师纳伊姆·K·卡西姆(Naim K. Qasim)曾在纽约、伊斯坦布尔和意大利工作，2007年回国“把我的憧憬带回我的社区”。他和妹妹（或姐姐）在阿拉伯社区蒂拉有一间工作室，制作特殊场合穿的仅此一件的裙装。2010年从申卡毕业的纳达夫·罗森伯格(Nadav Rosenberg)曾在伦敦的大卫·科马(David Koma)短暂实习，2012年开创了自己的品牌北方之星(Northern Star)，该品牌是轻松、鲜明的城市风格。罗森伯格之前把父母的家当做工作室，前不久才搬出去，在特拉维夫开了一家精品时装店，那里也是他生活和工作的地方。
Given the hurdles, it’s hard to avoid wondering why.
鉴于上述的种种障碍，你难免想知道他们为什么要这样做。
“Fashion connects all people,” said Mr. Drori, who interned at Azzedine Alaïa in Paris and Donna Karan in New York before returning to start Colle’cte. “It can be a bridge across color and religion.”
“时装把所有的人联系在一起，”德罗里先生说。他在巴黎的阿泽迪恩·阿拉亚(Azzedine Alaïa)以及纽约的唐娜·卡兰(Donna Karan)实习过，后来回国创办了Colle’cte。“它可以是跨越种族和宗教的桥梁。”
Still, though this sounds vaguely political and though there are political undercurrents in some Israeli fashion brands — Dorin Frankfurt, for example, a sort of Israeli Ann Taylor, established her business in 1975 on the premise that all labels say “designed and manufactured in Tel Aviv,” and owns her own local factory specifically created to hire workers of all cultural identities — there is a notable lack of overt sloganeering among young designers.
不过，虽然这听起来隐隐带点政治意味，虽然有些以色列时尚品牌的确带有政治用意——比如多林·法兰克福(Dorin Frankfurt)，她有点像以色列的安·泰勒(Ann Taylor)，于1975年建立了自己的企业，前提是所有的标签都写上“在特拉维夫设计与制造”，她建立自己的当地工厂，特意雇佣有着各种文化背景的工人——但是年轻设计师们显然不喜欢喊政治口号。
There are exceptions. One footwear student in Shenkar’s graduating class had, as her senior project, shoes with the Arabic word “freedom” sculpted in three dimensions on the soles, so whoever wore them would leave an unmistakable trail. But in general, the clothes themselves are not about conflict, cultures colliding or any of the topics an outsider looking in might expect.
也有例外。申卡毕业班上的一名鞋类设计学生在高级项目中往鞋底刻了个三维阿拉伯单词“自由”，所以不管谁穿这双鞋子都将留下明显的足迹。但是总的来说，这些服装本身不是关于矛盾、文化冲突或者局外人可能期待的其他主题。
“It’s strange, I think,” said Orit Freilich, a senior lecturer at Shenkar. “I ask my students sometimes, ‘Don’t you want to make something that deals with the situation around you?’ But they say no. They want to dream of something else.”
“我觉得这很奇怪，”申卡的高级讲师奥里特·弗雷利齐(Orit Freilich)说，“有时我问学生，‘你们不想做些与周围环境有关的东西吗？’他们说不想。他们梦想的是别的东西。”
This is exemplified by a reborn company called Maskit, a.k.a. Israel’s first (and possibly only) luxury fashion house, which was created in 1954 by Ruth Dayan, the former wife of the Israeli soldier-statesman Moshe Dayan, to use traditional Palestinian, Druze, Lebanese and Jewish embroidery techniques on contemporary luxury clothing, thus creating jobs for immigrants and elevating the cultural heritage of the region. Though wildly successful in the 1960s (Audrey Hepburn wore its famous egg coat), it closed in 1994. Last year, a husband-and-wife team, Nir and Sharon Tal, who had worked, respectively, at Deloitte and Alexander McQueen, bought it back along with the investor Stef Wertheimer (one of Israel’s richest men, and the founder of Iscar, an industrial tool manufacturer he recently sold to Warren Buffett) with the aim of creating a “local luxury brand.”
一个名叫马斯奇特(Maskit)的重生的公司做出了榜样。它是以色列的第一家（也许是唯一一家）奢侈服装公司，1954年由以色列军人/政治家摩西·达扬(Moshe Dayan)的妻子露丝·达扬（Ruth Dayan，已故）创立。该公司把巴勒斯坦、德鲁士、黎巴嫩和犹太的传统刺绣用到当代奢侈服装上，从而为移民创造了就业机会，也发扬了该地区的文化遗产。虽然它在20世纪60年代非常成功（奥黛丽·赫本[Audrey Hepburn]穿过该品牌著名的鸡蛋外套），但1994年还是倒闭了。去年，一对夫妻档——尼尔和莎伦·塔勒(Nir and Sharon Tal)，他们分别曾在德勤(Deloitte)和亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)工作过——和投资人斯泰夫·韦特海默（Stef Wertheimer，以色列的富豪，是工业设备公司伊斯卡[Iscar]的创始人，他最近把这家公司卖给了沃伦·巴菲特[Warren Buffett]）一起买下了这个品牌，目标是创造一个“本土奢侈品牌”。
Although they are going through the motions of adopting Maskit’s fashion diplomacy when it comes embroidery, the Tals seem just as, if not more, focused on creating a business model for other would-be designers: a context for the next generation to imagine a route to a career within Israel. To really make this work, they will have to up their aesthetic signature (at the moment, the clothes are largely nice reinventions of past styles), but the very existence of their goal reflects the opportunity for an alternative future that is at the heart of fashion’s allure. No matter where it is.
虽然在刺绣方面他们继续采用马斯奇特的时装外交，但是塔勒夫妇最为关注的似乎是为未来的设计师们创造一个商业模式：为下一代创造一个环境，设想一条在以色列发展事业的道路。要真的实现这一点，他们必须得提高审美特点（目前，他们的服装大多是过去风格的优秀再造），但是他们的目标反映了以色列时装业的另一个未来，这个未来正是时装的魅力所在。不管未来在哪里。