TEL AVIV, Israel — Even as Israel and Hamas agreed to pause hostilities briefly on Thursday at the request of the United Nations, a senior Israeli military official said that his government was increasingly likely to order a ground invasion of the Gaza Strip that it had hoped to avoid.
以色列特拉维夫——尽管应联合国的要求，以色列和哈马斯(Hamas)已经同意暂时停战，以色列军方的一名高官还是表示，他的政府下令发动地面入侵的可能性越来越大了，而这是政府此前希望避免的。
Though Israel initially set limited goals of halting the rocket assaults against it and degrading Hamas, the Islamist movement that dominates Gaza, the group’s tenacity and surprisingly deep arsenal have to led to widespread calls to expand the mission. The military official said only “boots on the ground” could eradicate terrorism from Gaza and indicated that Israel was even considering a long-term reoccupation of the coastal territory.
以色列最初设定的目标是有限的，一方面要遏制住针对它的火箭弹袭击，一方面要削弱伊斯兰派组织哈马斯在加沙占主导地位，但该组织的顽固和惊人的武器储备导致人们普遍呼吁加大行动规模。这名军官表示，只有“地面力量”能根除加沙的恐怖主义，并暗示以色列甚至考虑重新长期占领那片沿海地区。
But with the Palestinian death toll reaching 214 on Wednesday, Israel and the Gaza militants agreed to end the violence for five hours on Thursday, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. For Israel, it was a move that might help mitigate international criticism of rising civilian casualties, and that carried little cost: The military warned that if Hamas or other groups “exploited” the “humanitarian window” to attack Israel, it would “respond firmly and decisively.”
但周三，巴勒斯坦遇难者人数已达214人。在此情况下，以色列和加沙的武装分子同意停战五小时，从周四上午10点开始，下午3点结束。对以色列而言，此举可能有助于缓解国际社会对平民伤亡人数不断上升的指责，而且这么做也几乎没什么代价：以色列军方警告称，如果哈马斯或其他组织“利用”这个“人道主义时机”攻击以色列，它将“坚决、果断地进行回应”。
Hours earlier, Israel had called up 8,000 reservists in addition to the 42,000 troops already mobilized. With no progress reported from Cairo, where President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority had gone to discuss terms to end the fighting, Israel’s airstrikes intensified despite what the military official acknowledged were diminishing returns.
几小时前，以色列在原先动员的4.2万名士兵基础上，又征召了8000名预备役军人。巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)已前往开罗，讨论停战条件。在开罗未传来任何进展的情况下，以色列加强了空袭，尽管前述军官承认空袭的成果在逐渐减少。
“Every day that passes makes the possibility more evident,” the military official said of a ground campaign. The official, who has been briefing Israeli ministers responsible for strategic decisions and spoke on the condition of anonymity under military protocol, said that his assessment was based on “the signals I get” and that the likelihood of an invasion was “very high.”
“每过一天，这种可能性都会更明显一点，”这名军官在谈及地面攻击时说。他表示，自己的评估是基于“我得到的信号”，且入侵的可能性“非常大”。这名官员正在向以色列负责战略决策的部长汇报情况。根据部队条例，他要求匿名。
“We can hurt them very hard from the air but not get rid of them,” he told a handful of international journalists in a briefing at the military’s Tel Aviv headquarters. An Israeli takeover of Gaza would not be “a huge challenge,” he said, estimating that it would take “a matter of days or weeks.” But he added that preventing a more dangerous deterioration in the territory would require a presence “of many months.”
“从空中，我们可以重创他们，但无法根除他们，”他在特拉维夫市的军队总部新闻发布会上告诉一些国际记者。他表示，以色列用武力接管加沙不会是个“巨大挑战”，并估计是“几天或几周的事情”。但他接着说，防止该地区的局势出现更危险的恶化则需要驻军“数月”。
The stark assessment came as Israel bombed scores of targets, many of them homes in northern Gaza, after warning 100,000 residents via leaflets, text messages and automated telephone calls to evacuate by 8 a.m. Palestinian health officials said that more than 1,500 people had been injured since the Israeli operation began July 8, and that several young children, including four boys on a beach, were killed in strikes on Wednesday.
在做出如此严酷的评价之前，以色列已经轰炸了大量目标，其中许多是加沙北部的房屋。轰炸前，以色列通过传单、短信和自动来电告诫那里的10万居民在上午8点之前撤离。巴勒斯坦卫生官员表示，自以色列7月8日开始行动以来，已有逾1500人受伤，并称多名幼童在周三的袭击中遇难，其中包括一片沙滩上的四个男孩。
The lone Israeli casualty, a 37-year-old man killed by a mortar round as he distributed food to soldiers Tuesday night near the Erez crossing into Gaza, was eulogized by Israel’s president-elect, Reuven Rivlin, at an afternoon funeral.
以色列一方只有一人遇难。周二晚上，在进入加沙的埃雷兹十字路口附近，一名37岁的男子在给士兵发放食物时被一枚迫击炮弹击中身亡。在一天下午举行的葬礼上，以色列候任总统鲁文·里夫林(Reuven Rivlin)对其表示了赞扬。
In Washington, President Obama called for both sides to exercise restraint, and Secretary of State John Kerry continued making phone calls to the region. “The Israeli people and the Palestinian people don’t want to live like this,” Mr. Obama told reporters. “We will use all of our diplomatic resources and relationships to support efforts of closing a deal on a cease-fire.”
在华盛顿，奥巴马总统呼吁双方保持克制，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)则继续与该地区进行电话沟通。“以色列人民和巴勒斯坦人民不希望像这样生活，”奥巴马告诉记者。“我们将利用一切外交资源和关系，支持达成停火协议的努力。”
Mr. Obama reiterated his support for Israel while expressing sorrow over civilian casualties. “Israel has a right to defend itself from rocket attacks,” he said. “But over the past two weeks, we’ve all been heartbroken by the violence, especially the death and injury of so many innocent civilians in Gaza.”
奥巴马重申了他对以色列的支持，同时对平民的伤亡表示哀悼。“以色列有权防御火箭弹袭击。”他说，“不过，过去两周里的暴行让人心碎，尤其是看到加沙有这么多无辜的平民遇害和受伤。”
The Israeli military said that 132 rockets had been fired toward Israel on Wednesday, and that 33 of them had been intercepted by the Iron Dome missile-defense system, including several over Tel Aviv and the southern city of Ashkelon.
以色列军方称，周三巴方向以色列发射了132枚火箭弹，其中有33枚被铁穹(Iron Dome)导弹防御系统所拦截，有几枚火箭弹攻击的是特拉维夫市和南部城市阿什凯隆。
“We will use as much force as necessary in order to bring back the quiet to the people of Israel,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told mayors of the battered southern cities on Wednesday, according to his office.
根据以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)办公室发布的消息，总理在周三对接连遭受打击的南部城市的市长们表示，“为了让以色列人民重获安宁，我们会动用一切必要的力量。”
Mark Regev, Mr. Netanyahu’s spokesman, said an invasion of Gaza was “definitely an option.”
内塔尼亚胡的发言人马克∙雷格夫(Mark Regev)说，入侵加沙“肯定会是选择之一”。
“It’s being discussed,” he said. “I can’t go beyond that.” Asked about the military official’s characterization of the likelihood as “very high,” Mr. Regev said, “That’s a professional opinion of the military.” Then he added, “But you can be assured that opinion was expressed by the military to the political wing.”
他说，“我们讨论过这个选项。我只能透露这么多了。”当被问到军方官员述称入侵的可能性“极高”时，雷格夫说，“这是军方的专业意见。”之后他还说，“不过，我可以肯定地告诉你，军方是在向政界表达意见。”
Mr. Netanyahu has been fending off demands for a ground operation from some members of his cabinet and party. Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman, who has been at turns partner and rival to the prime minister, reiterated his call for a more substantial campaign against Hamas on Wednesday, as did Yuval Steinitz, the minister of strategic affairs, who has been a Netanyahu stalwart and frequent mouthpiece.
内塔尼亚胡一直在回避某些内阁会成员和政党提出的实施地面行动的要求。本周三，以色列外长阿维格多·利伯曼(Avigdor Lieberman)再次呼吁针对哈马斯展开更重大的行动，战略部长尤瓦尔·施泰尼茨(Yuval Steinitz)持同样看法，利伯曼与内塔尼亚胡时为拍档时为对手，而施泰尼茨则一直是内塔尼亚胡坚定的支持者，常常替他传话。
“It is not possible to ensure summer vacation, a normal summer for our kids, without a ground operation in Gaza,” Mr. Lieberman said during a visit to Ashkelon.
利伯曼在访问阿什凯隆时表示，“不在加沙展开地面行动，我们就不可能确保孩子们度过一个正常的暑假。”
“We don’t need to rule Gaza or build settlements in Gaza,” he added. “We need to ensure that all Hamas terrorists run away, are imprisoned or die.”
“我们不需要统治加沙或是在那里建立定居点。我们要的是，确保所有的哈马斯恐怖分子都被赶走、囚禁或死掉。”
The current campaign, Israel’s third major military operation in Gaza in six years, followed mounting tensions after the June 12 abduction and killing of three Israeli teenagers who were hitchhiking home in the occupied West Bank — a crime Israel blamed on Hamas — and the July 2 kidnapping and killing of a 16-year-old Palestinian in Jerusalem, which the authorities say was a revenge attack by Jewish extremists.
此次行动展开之前，巴以关系正日趋紧张，这是过去六年里，以色列在加沙地带展开的第三轮重大的军事行动，在此前的6月12日，三名以色列少年在被占领的加约旦河西岸搭便车回家的途中遭到绑架后被杀——以色列指责哈马斯是凶手——随后在7月2日，一名16岁的巴勒斯坦少年在耶路撒冷遭到绑架后被杀，巴勒斯坦当局称这一事件是犹太极端分子展开的报复性袭击。