JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said Monday that as long as he is the leader, a Palestinian state would not be established, reversing his support for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
耶路撒冷——以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)周一表示，只要他还是国家首脑，巴勒斯坦就不能建国，这违背了他对以两国方案解决巴以冲突的支持。
Netanyahu made the assertion on the eve of an election in which he is trailing in the polls. He has been campaigning aggressively, appealing to conservatives for support.
在民意调查中正处于落后状态的内塔尼亚胡，在选举前夕提出了这种主张。他一直在积极参选，并呼吁保守派支持他。
“I think that anyone who is going to establish a Palestinian state today and evacuate lands, is giving attack grounds to the radical Islam against the state of Israel,” he said in a video interview published on the NRG website. “Anyone who ignores this is sticking his head in the sand. The left does this time and time again. We are realistic and understand.”
“我认为，今天不管谁打算建立一个巴勒斯坦国，让人们从一些地区撤离出去，都是在为反对以色列国的激进伊斯兰提供攻击理由，”他在以色列新闻网站NRG上发布的视频采访中说。“所有忽视这些情况的人，都是把头埋在沙里。左派就在反复这样做。我们很现实，我们理解。”
Asked if he meant that a Palestinian state would not be established if he were to continue as Israel's prime minister, Netanyahu replied: “Correct.”
在被问到他的意思是不是只要他继续担任以色列总理，巴勒斯坦就无法建国时，内塔尼亚胡回答：“对。”
The comments reversed a 2009 speech in which Netanyahu endorsed the concept of two states for two peoples between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River.
这些言论违背了内塔尼亚胡在2009年的一次讲话，当时他认可了在地中海与约旦河之间为两个民族建立两个国家的理念。
Palestinian officials quickly seized on Netanyahu's comments, describing them as a validation of their long-held assertions.
巴勒斯坦官员迅速抓住内塔尼亚胡的言论不放，称这些说法证实了他们长期以来的观点。
“Netanyahu did everything in his power to undermine the two-state solution,” said Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator. “I hope his statements and actions will be an eye opener. If he feels that he can do this with impunity, then he will continue doing it.”
“内塔尼亚胡在尽其所能地破坏两国方案，”巴勒斯坦首席谈判代表赛义卜·埃雷卡特(Saeb Erekat)说。“我希望他的言论和行动能擦亮人们的眼睛。如果他认为自己这样做可以不受惩罚，他就会继续下去。”
“To those who say he is doing this for electioneering — no, that is Netanyahu,” Erekat said. “I think he wanted to destroy a two-state solution, not create two states.”
“有人说他这样做是为了竞选，对此我想说，不，这就是内塔尼亚胡，”埃雷卡特说。“我认为他想摧毁两国方案，而非创建两个国家。”
Netanyahu's comments were reported as he visited Har Homa, a Jerusalem neighborhood where construction on land Israel captured in the 1967 war ignited international outrage. Netanyahu said he had authorized that construction during his first term to block Palestinians from expanding Bethlehem and to prevent a “Hamastan” for militants from sprouting in the hills nearby.
内塔尼亚胡的言论是在他到访耶路撒冷社区哈赫马(Har Homa)时发表的。以色列通过1967年的战争占领这里并建设居民点的行为，引起了国际公愤。内塔尼亚胡表示，他在自己的第一任期批准了该建筑活动，以阻止巴勒斯坦人扩大伯利恒的范围，并防止附近的山区发展出激进分子的“哈马斯坦”。
Netanyahu stood next to maps of Har Homa, one from 1997 that showed its empty hillsides, and one showing its roughly 4,000 apartments today. A further 2,000 are under construction or planned.
内塔尼亚胡站在哈赫马的地图旁，其中一张制于1997年的地图显示了此地空荡荡的山坡，还有一张显示着如今的大约4000套公寓。此外，还有2000套正在建设或计划当中。
“It was a way of stopping Bethlehem from moving toward Jerusalem,” Netanyahu said of his approval of Har Homa, against U.S. wishes, in 1997.
“这是阻止伯利恒向耶路撒冷靠近的一种方式，”内塔尼亚胡在提到他1997年批准哈赫马的决定时说，此举违背了美国的意愿。
“This neighborhood, exactly because it stops the continuation of the Palestinians,” he added. “I saw the potential was really great.”
“这个社区，正因为它阻止了巴勒斯坦人的延伸，”他还表示。“我看到了非常大的潜力。”
Netanyahu has long heralded Israel's right to build anywhere in Jerusalem, but he generally says that his expansion of settlements — which most world leaders consider illegal — do not materially affect the map for a potential two-state solution to the conflict with the Palestinians. His acknowledgment that Har Homa was intended to disrupt Palestinian development between Bethlehem and Jerusalem — which the Palestinians see as their future capital — came as he sought to win back votes for his Likud party and to take them from more conservative factions that oppose a Palestinian state.
内塔尼亚胡早就宣告以色列有权在耶路撒冷的任何地方建设社区，但他通常表示，扩展定居点——大多数世界领导人认为这是非法行为——实质上不会影响实施潜在的两国方案，解决巴以冲突的计划。内塔尼亚胡想要为他的利库德党(Likud Party)赢回选票，从更多反对巴勒斯坦国的保守派阵营获得选票，因此他承认哈赫马社区旨在破坏巴勒斯坦在伯利恒与耶路撒冷之间的地带的开发活动，巴勒斯坦人将这一地带视作未来的首都。
Palestinians and their international supporters staged huge protests against Har Homa in the 1990s, precisely because of its location at Jerusalem's southern edge, arguing that preventing a connection between Bethlehem and the Arab neighborhoods of Jerusalem threatened the viability of a future Palestinian state.
20世纪90年代，由于哈赫马社区位于耶路撒冷的南部边缘，巴勒斯坦人和他们的国际支持者对此表示强烈抗议，辩称阻止伯利恒与耶路撒冷阿拉伯社区的联系，到未来建立巴勒斯坦国的可行性构成了威胁。
“He has confirmed verbally for the first time what we have denounced for years,” said Xavier Abu Eid, a spokesman for the Palestine Liberation Organization. “That Har Homa is not about an innocent `Jerusalem neighborhood' on occupied land, but about splitting occupied East Jerusalem from Bethlehem.”
“他首次口头证实了我们多年来谴责的问题，”巴勒斯坦解放组织(Palestine Liberation Organization)发言人泽维尔·阿布·艾德(Xavier Abu Eid)说。“建设哈赫马社区不是为了在占领地上建立单纯的‘耶路撒冷社区’，而是为了将被占领的东耶路撒冷从伯利恒分裂出来。”
Har Homa, one of about a dozen Jewish areas on land that was occupied by Jordan before 1967 and annexed into Jerusalem by Israel after the war, is home to 25,000 people today. Most were drawn not by ideology but by the large apartments, parks and playgrounds, stunning views and lower prices than in the city center.
哈赫马如今已是2.5万人的家园，这是一片由大约十几个犹太人聚集区组成的社区，该地区在1967年前由约旦占领，战后被以色列并入耶路撒冷。吸引大多数人前来的不是意识形态，而是大公寓、公园和运动场，令人惊艳的美景，以及比市中心便宜的价格。
Netanyahu's visit gave him a chance to appeal to pro-settlement voters and to rebut criticism about his government's handling of Israel's housing crisis. Polls show that most voters are far more concerned about high apartment prices than about security issues, and he said that Har Homa was “the solution for young couples who need a place to live.”
内塔尼亚胡的到访让他可以趁机争取那些支持建造定居点的选民，对政府在应对以色列住房危机上所遭受的批评予以反驳。民调显示，与安全问题相比，大多数选民更关心房价高的问题，他表示，哈赫马社区为“需要住处的年轻夫妇提供了解决方案”。
The center-left Zionist Union alliance, Netanyahu's main opponent, has emphasized pocketbook issues throughout the campaign. So have two centrist contenders, the Yesh Atid party of Yair Lapid, and Kulanu, headed by Moshe Kahlon, a former minister who quit Likud because of its failures on housing and other economic matters.
中间偏左的犹太复国主义联盟(Zionist Union)——内塔尼亚胡的主要对手——一直在竞选活动中强调经济议题。中间派竞争对手——亚伊尔·拉皮德(Yair Lapid)领导的未来党(Yesh Atid Party)和摩西·卡隆(Moshe Kahlon)领导的全民党(Kulanu)也是如此，曾经担任部长的卡隆退出了利库德党，因为该党没能解决住房及其他经济问题。