JERUSALEM — Under intense diplomatic pressure, Israeli leaders decided late Saturday to extend a halt to hostilities in the Gaza Strip through midnight Sunday, but said their troops would maintain defensive positions and continue to ferret out tunnels from Gaza into Israeli territory.
耶路撒冷——在巨大的外交压力下，以色列领导人周六深夜决定，将加沙地带的停火延长至周日午夜。不过，以方同时表示，他们的军队将坚守防守阵地，并继续搜索从加沙通往以色列领土的隧道。
Hamas, the militant Palestinian faction that dominates Gaza, rejected the extension of the temporary cease-fire requested by the United Nations, after renewing rocket fire on Israel on Saturday evening.
周六傍晚重新对以色列发起火箭弹袭击后，控制加沙的巴勒斯坦激进组织哈马斯(Hamas)拒绝了联合国提出的延长临时停火的要求。
“Any humanitarian cease-fire that doesn’t secure the withdrawal of occupation soldiers from inside Gaza’s borders, allow citizens back into homes, and secure the evacuation of the injured is unacceptable,” Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas spokesman, said in a brief statement.
“任何无法让占领军从加沙边境内部撤离、让民众重返家园、让伤员得到疏散的所谓人道主义停火都是不可接受的，”哈马斯发言人萨米·阿布·祖赫里(Sami Abu Zuhri)在一份简短声明中表示。
It remains unclear how things will unfold. Twice before in the bloody 19-day battle, Israel embraced cease-fire initiatives only to resume its assault within hours when Hamas did not follow suit. But the end of a previous Gaza battle, in 2009, began with both sides declaring unilateral cease-fires.
尚不清楚事态将如何发展。这场血战已经持续了19天，之前有两次，以色列接受了停火倡议，但在哈马斯拒绝停火的几小时后恢复攻击。不过，2009年那场加沙之战的结束便始于双方均单方面宣布停火。
With the Palestinian death toll topping 1,100 after 147 bodies were recovered from the rubble during Saturday’s lull — and with 42 Israeli soldiers killed in combat — calls for calm have only grown more urgent.
在周六停火期间，瓦砾中挖出了147具尸体。至此，巴勒斯坦的遇难者人数超过1100名——以色列一方也有42名士兵在战斗中丧生。有鉴于此，让双方保持冷静的呼声变得更加急切。
Secretary of State John Kerry, whose plea for a seven-day cease-fire was rebuffed by both sides on Friday night, convened Arab and European foreign ministers for another round of talks in Paris to press for an extension of Saturday’s initial 12-hour pause. His calculation seemed to be that a succession of short truces might yet be cobbled together to begin unwinding the conflict.
周五夜里，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)发出的停火七天的请求遭到了双方的拒绝。克里在巴黎召集了阿拉伯和欧洲国家的外长进行新一轮会谈，敦促延长周六的停火。本轮停火的时长最初只有12小时。他的考虑似乎是，通过将一连串的短期停战累积起来，或许能开始化解这场冲突。
For Israel, accepting the cease-fire extension looked like a win-win: an opportunity to thwart the threat of tunnels that could be used to attack or kidnap its citizens, without risking more of the civilian casualties that have catapulted world opinion against it. It was also a way for Israel to regain the diplomatic high ground and, if Hamas indeed keeps firing, buttress its argument that its operation is defensive.
对以色列而言，接受延长停火时间看上去像是一件双赢的事情：有机会挫败那些可能会被用来攻击或绑架以色列民众的隧道的威胁，却又不必冒上造成更多加沙平民伤亡的风险，因为平民伤亡在全世界激起了反以舆论；同时，这也是以色列在外交上重获优势的一种途径，而且，假如哈马斯真的继续开火，此举还能支持以色列宣称的己方行动实为防御的说法。
Hamas too faced pressure to accept the truce, not only from international negotiators. A quiet Sunday would allow battered Gaza residents to prepare for Eid al-Fitr, the holiday that ends the holy month of Ramadan, early this week. It would also give their leaders time to regroup militarily and to press their demands in negotiations for a broader cease-fire agreement.
哈马斯也面临着接受停战协议的压力。这种压力不仅来自国际谈判方。周日停火的话，会让处境艰难的加沙居民得以筹备开斋节(Eid al-Fitr)。开斋节将在本周早些时候到来，是庆祝斋月结束的节日。停火还会让哈马斯领导人有时间来重组武装力量，并在为达成更广泛的停火协议而举行的谈判中推动己方的要求。
“The people here in Gaza have had enough, and honestly they are pushing Hamas for a cease-fire,” said Mukhaimer Abu Saada, a political scientist at Gaza’s Al Azhar University. “People are mad at Israel, but they are also mad at Hamas — enough is enough. The situation that is existing now is just a lot of destruction, a lot of sadness, and people want to breathe. As long as Israel is not killing Palestinians, it’s like, O.K.”
“加沙民众已经受够了，老实说，是他们在敦促哈马斯达成停火协议，”加沙爱资哈尔大学(Al-Azhar University)的政治家者穆海迈尔·阿布·萨达(Mukhaimer Abu Saada)说。“人们对以色列感到愤怒，对哈马斯也感到愤怒——应该适可而止。现在的情况是，这里遭到大量破坏，而且充斥着悲伤，人们想喘口气。好像只要以色列不杀害巴勒斯坦人就行。”
There was still the possibility that Hamas’s rejection of the cease-fire would not be accompanied by a spray of rockets, a calm that Israel would presumably reciprocate, allowing a lull to continue despite a face-saving rejection.
尽管哈马斯拒绝停火，但仍有可能不会发射一系列火箭弹，而以色列或许会对这种平静局面予以回报。这样的话，虽然哈马斯为了保全面子而表示拒绝，但和平局面仍能继续下去。
Significant gaps remain on the parameters of a durable truce. Hamas wants the release of high-profile prisoners along with open border crossings into Gaza and a lifting of Israel’s restrictions on fishing, farming and trade. Israel wants international guarantees that Gaza will be demilitarized, including a monitoring system to ensure that imported supplies would not be used to rebuild tunnels.
双方在长期休战的前提条件方面仍存在巨大差异。哈马斯要求以色列释放一些重要囚犯、开放通往加沙的过境通道，并放松对当地渔业、农业和贸易的限制。以色列则要求国际社会保证加沙实现非军事化，其中包括建立一个监督体系，以保证进口物资不会用来重新建造地道。
The longer the temporary truces last, the more tunnels Israel can destroy, and the easier it would be for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to sell a cease-fire to his cabinet and constituents. The military said its troops found four new tunnel shafts during Saturday’s 12-hour pause; since the ground operation began July 17, a spokesman said, 31 tunnels have been unearthed and 15 destroyed.
临时休战持续得越久，以色列就能摧毁越多的隧道，总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)也就能更好地说服其内阁和选民接受停火协议。军方表示，他们在周六的12个小时停火期间发现了4个新的隧道竖井。一名发言人称，自从地面进攻从7月17日开始以来，他们一共发现了31个隧道，并摧毁了其中15个。