JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel apologized Monday for warning last week that Arab citizens were voting in “droves,” comments that have been denounced by President Barack Obama, other world leaders, U.S. Jewish leaders and many Israelis as anti-democratic, race-baiting and fear-mongering.
耶路撒冷——周一，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)为上周警告民众本国的阿拉伯人正在“成群结队”地去投票而道歉。这些言论被美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马、其他一些国家的领导人、美国的犹太领袖及很多以色列人指责有悖民主、实为种族主义煽动、散布恐慌。
“I know that my comments last week offended some Israeli citizens and offended members of the Israeli Arab community,” Netanyahu said, according to a translation provided by his party, Likud. “This was never my intent. I apologize for this.”
从其领导的政党利库德党(Likud)提供的讲话稿翻译件来看，内塔尼亚胡表示，“我知道，上周的言论冒犯了一些以色列民众，也冒犯了以色列的阿拉伯群体。这决不是我的本意。我对此表示道歉。”
The apology came hours after Israel's president, Reuven Rivlin, announced that Netanyahu had secured the backing of 67 of the 120 Parliament members elected last week and officially designated him to form the next government.
在内塔尼亚胡道歉的几个小时前，以色列总统鲁文·里夫林(Reuven Rivlin)宣布，内塔尼亚胡得到了上周当选的120名议员中67人的支持，并正式委托他组建下一届政府。
The uproar served as a final act for a divisive, ugly campaign of personal attacks. Midway through last Tuesday's balloting, Netanyahu posted a video on his Facebook page expressing alarm that Arabs were “being bused to the polling stations in droves” by left-wing organizations. Netanyahu said in a series of interviews on Thursday that he did not intend to suppress the Arab vote, as many critics contended, only to inspire Israelis who supported him to get to polling places themselves.
此番言论激起的愤怒，是这场撕裂民众、充满人身攻击的丑陋竞选的最后一幕。在上周二投票的中途，内塔尼亚胡在其Facebook页面上发布了一段视频，对左翼团体正在组织阿拉伯人“成群结队地运往投票站”发出警告。周四接受一系列采访时，内塔尼亚胡表示，他并不是像许多批评人士宣称的那样，想要压制阿拉伯人的选票，而只是为了动员支持他的以色列人亲自前往投票点。
But Monday's statement, made to a gathering of Israeli Arabs at the prime minister's residence, was the first hint of an apology. According to the statement, Netanyahu also told the group: “I view myself as the prime minister of each and every citizen of Israel. Without any prejudice based on religion, ethnicity or gender, I view every citizen as my partner in building a more secure, more prosperous state of Israel and a nation that benefits the needs and interests of all our citizenry.”
周一的声明，是面向聚在总理官邸的一群以色列的阿拉伯人发表的。这是他表达歉意的首个迹象。从声明来看，内塔尼亚胡还对听众表示：“我视自己为以色列每一位公民的总理。在建设一个更安全、更繁荣的以色列国，一个能照顾我们所有公民的需求和利益的国家的过程中，我视每一位公民为合作伙伴，不因宗教、族裔或性别而抱有任何偏见。”
The White House said it was proper for Netanyahu to apologize.
白宫称，内塔尼亚胡的道歉是适宜之举。
“We've made pretty clear the serious concerns that we had with those comments,” said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, when told on Monday that Netanyahu had expressed regret. “So if that's what he said, then it certainly seems appropriate for him to make that acknowledgment.”
“我们已经非常明确地表明了对那些言论的严重关切，”白宫发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)周一获悉内塔尼亚胡已表示遗憾时说。“因此，如果他那样说了，那么他承认这一点当然看来是恰当的。”
Israeli news sites reported that the Arab joint list coalition of small parties, which garnered 13 parliamentary seats in Tuesday's election, dismissed Netanyahu's apology.
由小党派组成的阿拉伯政党联盟在周二的选举中获得了13个席位。以色列多家新闻网站报道，该联盟没有理会内塔尼亚胡的道歉。