JERUSALEM — Soon after barrages of rockets were fired from Gaza into Israel on Sunday morning, the Israeli military announced that a humanitarian lull in its Gaza offensive, which was meant to last through midnight, was over.
耶路撒冷——来自加沙的火箭弹排炮周日上午射入以色列领土之后不久，以色列军方宣布，其加沙攻势原定持续到午夜的人道主义停火提前结束。
Huge clouds of smoke could be seen rising from the eastern neighborhoods of Gaza City that run close to the border with Israel, and fewer Palestinians were out on the city streets than on Saturday, as they appeared to be hunkering down again.
人们能看到巨大的烟云从靠近色列边境的加沙城东部居民区升起，城市街道上巴勒斯坦人的数量比周六大为减少，看来人们都已再次躲藏起来。
The military said in a statement shortly after 10 a.m. on Sunday that it was resuming its aerial, naval and ground activity in the Gaza Strip “following Hamas’s incessant rocket fire throughout the humanitarian window.” Some Israeli politicians began talking of the possibility of escalating the Israeli offensive against Hamas and other Palestinian militant groups, now in its 20th day, as intense international efforts over the weekend to press for an immediate, broader cease-fire appeared to have failed.
军方在周日上午10点多发表声明说，“由于哈马斯在整个人道主义停火期间不断发射火箭弹”，军队已经恢复其在加沙地带的空中、海上和地面行动。一些以色列政客开始谈论让以色利攻势升级的可能性，以色列对哈马斯和其他巴勒斯坦激进组织的攻击如今已进入第20天，迫使双方立刻大范围停火的周末紧张国际努力看来已经失败。
On Sunday afternoon, Hamas backtracked on its earlier rejection of the temporary cease-fire and said the "resistance groups" would agree to a 24-hour truce starting at 2 p.m. local time. A Hamas official in Gaza released a statement saying that Hamas’s decision came “in response to the intervention of the United Nations” and out of understanding for the people of Gaza who are preparing for Eid al-Fitr, the holiday that ends Ramadan. There was no immediate response to Hamas’s statement from Israel.
周日下午，哈马斯收回了其先前对暂时停火的拒绝，并表示，“抵抗组织”将会同意一个于当地时间下午2点开始的24小时休战。一位哈马斯官员在加沙发表声明说，哈马斯的决定是“在联合国的斡旋之下”做出的，出于对加沙人民的考虑，他们正在为标志斋月结束的开斋节做准备。以色列没有立即对哈马斯的声明做出回应。
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel has come under political pressure from partners in his governing coalition and also from some ministers within his own party not to take the pressure off Hamas at this point.
以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)面临着来自其执政联盟伙伴、以及他所在政党内部的某些部长的政治压力，不要在这个时刻缓解对哈马斯的攻势。
Naftali Bennett, leader of the right-wing Jewish Home party, issued a statement on his Facebook page on Sunday saying “Israel stands at a historic decisive moment. It is possible to defeat Hamas decisively and to dismantle its rockets and tunnels.”
右翼党派犹太家园党(Jewish Home party)的领袖纳夫塔利·贝内特(Naftali Bennett)在其Facebook网页发表声明说，“以色列正处在一个关键的历史时刻。有可能决定性地战胜哈马斯，解除其火箭弹，拆除其地道。”
With Hamas badly beaten but not yet knocked out, and with the Israeli public united in support of the operation, he argued, this was no time for a cease-fire that would allow Hamas to regroup.
他认为，哈马斯虽然受到重创，但尚未被消灭，由于以色列公众一致支持这次行动，现在不是停火的时候，停火将会让哈马斯重整旗鼓。
Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the Israeli military, said that 25 rockets and mortar shells had been fired into Israel since 8 p.m. on Saturday, when an initial 12-hour cease-fire ended. Israel said it would hold its fire for an additional four hours while its cabinet met on Saturday night, then announced that, at the request of the United Nations, it would extend the lull for 24 hours. But Israel responded to some of the fire overnight with artillery fire toward Rafah, in southern Gaza, Colonel Lerner said.
以色列军方发言人彼得·勒纳中校(Lt. Col. Peter Lerner)说，自从最初的12小时停火于周六晚8时结束以来，已有25枚火箭弹和迫击炮弹射入以色列。以色列表示，在其内阁周六晚开会期间，将继续停火4个小时，内阁会议之后，以色列宣布，在联合国的请求之下，将把停火时间延长到24小时。但以色列对夜间的炮火做出部分回应，用炮弹袭击了加沙南部的拉法，勒纳说。
The Israeli prime minister’s office said in a statement that the Israeli military was aiming to hit “terrorist” targets and that “if civilians are hurt unintentionally, Hamas will be responsible for that, after once more violating a proposal for a humanitarian lull that Israel agreed to.”
以色列总理办公室在一份声明中表示，以色列军方袭击的目标是“恐怖分子”，并说，“如果平民受到无意伤害，哈马斯对此负有负责，因为它又一次拒绝了以色列的人道主义停火建议。”
After listing previous violations of temporary cease-fires over the past few days, the statement accused Hamas of “making cynical use of Gaza’s civilians in order to use them as a human shield.”
声明在列举了过去几天中几次对临时停火的违反之后，指责哈马斯“存心恶意利用加沙平民，把他们当作人体盾牌”。
The United Nations, it added, had requested an extension of the cease-fire to allow Gaza’s residents to prepare for the Eid al-Fitr.
声明补充说，为了让加沙地居民准备开斋节，联合国已经要求延长停火时间。
Israel had said that it would maintain defensive positions in Gaza during the lull and continue to operate against Hamas’s underground tunnel network, which has been used by militants to infiltrate Israeli territory.
以色列曾表示，在临时停火期间将保持其在加沙的防御力量，继续拆除哈马斯的地道网络，武装分子曾使用这些地道渗透以色列领土。