BEIRUT — An Israeli helicopter strike killed five Hezbollah fighters in southern Syria on Sunday, including the son of a slain senior commander, according to a Hezbollah member briefed on the episode, who described the attack as a provocative move by Israel.
贝鲁特——据一名了解相关情况的黎巴嫩真主党(Hezbollah)成员称，以色列周日在叙利亚南部发起了一次直升机袭击，击毙了五名真主党武装人员，其中包括一名遇害高级指挥官的儿子。上述真主党成员称，此次袭击是以色列的挑衅举动。
The attack threatened to rekindle longstanding tensions between Israel and Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite militant group and political party. Tensions between the two set off a deadly war in 2006 but have, in recent years, taken a back seat to the civil war in neighboring Syria, where Hezbollah is fighting alongside the Syrian government's forces.
此次袭击可能会重新点燃以色列与真主党由来已久的紧张关系，真主党是黎巴嫩什叶派武装组织及政党。双方之间的紧张关系一度在2006年引发了一场血腥的战争，但近年来，在邻国叙利亚爆发内战，真主党与叙利亚政府军并肩作战的情况下，以色列与真主党之间的矛盾退居次位。
During nearly four years of war there, Israel has bombed Syrian territory several times, targeting weapons storehouses and convoys said to be bound for Hezbollah, without provoking retaliation from the group. But with a direct strike on Hezbollah fighters on the ground in Syria, the Hezbollah member said: “They are trying to modify the rules of engagement, and Hezbollah will never allow that.”
在持续近四年的叙利亚内战期间，以色列多次轰炸叙利亚领土，目标是武器库和据称驶往真主党据点的车队，但真主党均未进行反击。然而，前述真主党成员称，通过直接对叙利亚战场的真主党作战人员发动袭击，“他们是在尝试改变交战规则，真主党绝不允许这么做。”
The member said the strike drew intense interest because among those killed was Jihad Imad Mughniyeh, the son of Imad Mughniyeh, a senior Hezbollah commander who was assassinated in 2008 in Syria. Hezbollah, which blames Israel, has long vowed retaliation for his death.
这名成员称此次袭击引发了强烈关注，因为死者包括2008年在叙利亚遇刺身亡的真主党高级指挥官伊迈德·穆格尼耶(Imad Mughniyeh)之子，吉哈德·伊迈德·穆格尼耶(Jihad Imad Mughniyeh)。真主党称以色列应对那起事件负责，长期以来都宣称要予以报复。
Israeli military and government officials refused to comment in the hours after the strike, maintaining their usual policy of ambiguity regarding attacks on Syrian turf meant to allow the Syrians to save face and to stave off retaliation.
在袭击发生后的数小时里，以色列军方和政府官员拒绝发表评论，保持了他们在叙利亚领土遭遇袭击时，通常采取的含糊政策。这是为了让叙利亚保全颜面，并防止报复。
Agence France-Presse, however, cited an unidentified Israeli security source who said that an Israeli helicopter carried out the strike against “terrorists” in the Syrian sector of the Golan Heights, saying they were preparing an attack against Israel.
然而，法新社(Agence France-Presse)援引以色列安全部门一位匿名人士的话报道称，一架以色列直升机实施了这次袭击，目标是叙利亚占领的戈兰高地内的“恐怖分子”，并称后者正在筹备针对以色列的袭击活动。
For hours on Sunday, Hezbollah's television channel, Al Manar, played martial songs. Hezbollah's official statement said only that several fighters had been killed in the Israeli strike, but news media outlets favoring the party reported the death of Jihad Mughniyeh, and loyalists quickly praised him on social media as following his father to martyrdom.
周日，真主党的灯塔电视台(Al-Manar)连续数小时播放战争歌曲。真主党的官方声明只是说数名士兵在以色列的袭击中丧生，但支持真主党的媒体报道了吉哈德·穆格尼耶的死讯，支持者很快就在社交媒体上赞颂他追随父亲成了烈士。
The Hezbollah member noted that the younger Mughniyeh was a young, rank-and-file fighter, so his importance was mainly in relation to his father. But he noted that there were reports that an Iranian had also been killed, and some Hezbollah loyalists on social media said that a senior Hezbollah commander was among the dead.
真主党的这名成员指出，小穆格尼耶是一名年轻的基层士兵，他能够获得关注主要是因为他的父亲。但他提到，有报告称，一名伊朗人也在袭击中丧生，此外一些真主党的忠实成员在社交媒体上说，死者中包括一名真主党的高级指挥官。