JERUSALEM — Claiming it had achieved most of its objectives and pressured by Western allies to stop causing civilian casualties in Gaza, Israel moved to wind down its operations there on Monday — either unilaterally or through a new Egyptian-brokered cease-fire announced late in the day.
耶路撒冷——在宣称已经完成大多数目标的同时，西方盟友也施压要求停止在加沙地带造成平民伤亡，因此以色列于周一开始减少在加沙的行动——或是通过单方面行为，或是通过接受当天晚些时候宣布的一项由埃及斡旋达成的新停火协议。
The Egyptian proposal, which in principle was to start at 8 a.m. local time on Tuesday, was created “out of concern for innocent lives and to prevent further bloodshed,” and would initially last for 72 hours, an Egypt Foreign Ministry statement said. Both Israel and Hamas indicated they would respect the cease-fire, which would be followed by talks on a more lasting arrangement.
埃及外交部发表声明称，“出于对无辜生命的关切，避免进一步的流血事件，”埃及提出了停火倡议，初步提议停火72小时。原则上，停火时段从当地时间周二上午8点开始。以色列和哈马斯(Hamas)都表示，他们将遵行停火协议。继该停火协议之后，各方将就更加持久的协议开展谈判。
But given the history of broken cease-fires in the conflict, it was unclear that both sides would honor Egypt’s proposal, which was similar to one previously rejected by Hamas.
但鉴于冲突中曾出现过破坏停火协议的情况，目前尚不清楚双方是否会遵行埃及的倡议，该倡议与哈马斯之前拒绝接受的提议类似。
Earlier in the day, Israel appeared to be positioning itself to conclude its military operation in Gaza, with or without a formal cease-fire agreement.
当天早些时候，以色列似乎摆出一种姿态，无论有没有正式的停火协议，以色列都将结束在加沙地带的军事行动。
With Israeli troops essentially finished destroying Hamas’s tunnels into Israel and having dealt Hamas’s military capacity a significant blow, senior Israeli officials said they were moving troops to defensive positions on both sides of the border. The army — and especially the air force — will respond to attacks and rocket fire by Hamas and Islamic Jihad, but the hope, Israeli officials say, is that Gaza fighters will not match rhetoric with action, and that the conflict will slowly wind down and stop.
随着以色列军队基本上停止摧毁哈马斯通往以色列的地道，对哈马斯的军事力量造成严重打击，以色列的高级官员表示，边境两边的军队正在进入防御状态。以色列军队——尤其是空军——将对哈马斯及伊斯兰圣战组织(Islamic Jihad)的攻击和火箭弹袭击作出回应，但以色列官员表示，他们希望加沙武装人员只是虚张声势，冲突会逐步减少，最终停止。
The latest Israeli actions in the nearly month-old Gaza conflict, which Israel calls Operation Protective Edge, are unilateral. After the quick breakdown of last Friday’s cease-fire, negotiated with Hamas through Qatar, the Israeli officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they no longer believed that Hamas would implement agreements. Nor did they want to “reward” Hamas, they said, for its rocket and tunnel war.
被以色列称为保护边陲行动(Operation Protective Edge)的加沙冲突持续了将近一个月，这些最新举措是以色列单边决定的。在上周五的停火协议迅速遭到破坏，通过卡塔尔与哈马斯进行谈判后，以色列官员表示，他们不再相信哈马斯会贯彻协议。他们表示，他们也不会因为火箭弹攻击及地道战去“酬谢”哈马斯。这些官员要求匿名。
But Israeli officials also said they were willing to see what the Egyptian government could achieve with Palestinian negotiators in Cairo. Israel was not opposed to a new arrangement with Hamas and the Palestinians, nor did it remove the possibility of renewing the negotiated cease-fire agreement that ended the brief, last conflict in Gaza, in November 2012. That agreement called for opening the crossings in Gaza, easing the movement of people and transfer of goods and extending fishing limits.
但以色列官员还表示，他们希望看到埃及政府与巴勒斯坦的谈判代表在开罗达成协议。以色列并不反对与哈马斯及巴勒斯坦人达成新协议，也不会排除延续之前的一份停火协议的可能，也就是结束了2012年11月那次短暂冲突的协议。那份协议要求开放加沙的过境通道，方便民众行动，货物运输，并扩大捕鱼限制范围。
And Israeli officials said they were conscious of the need for the reconstruction of Gaza, which will require significant imports of building materials, but wanted it supervised by Egypt through Rafah, at the Gaza-Egypt border, or by Israel through its main crossing at Kerem Shalom.
以色列官员表示，他们明白加沙需要重建，这将需要进口大量的建筑材料，但他们希望埃及在处于加沙-埃及边境的拉法、以色列在凯雷姆沙洛姆(Kerem Shalom)的主要过境通道对材料运输进行监督。
Israel is in no hurry, the officials said, and for now the model they are adhering to is the unilateral cease-fire Israel announced at the end of the last major Gazan conflict, which lasted three weeks into January 2009. Then, Hamas slowly stopped rocket fire, a period of relative quiet that lasted nearly four years.
官员们表示，以色列并不着急，目前坚持遵行该国在上一次加沙重大冲突结束时宣布的单边停火协议，当时停火时间持续到2009年1月，长达三周。后来，哈马斯逐渐停止发射火箭弹，那段相对平静的时期持续了将近四年。
On Monday, the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, met with the southern command of the Israel Defense Forces, which is leading the war in Gaza, and said that the campaign there was continuing.
周一，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)与以色列国防军（Israel Defense Forces，简称IDF）负责指挥加沙战事的南方司令部举行会晤，并表示加沙的行动仍在继续。
“What is about to conclude is the I.D.F. action to deal with the tunnels, but this operation will end only when quiet and security are restored to the citizens of Israel for a lengthy period,” Mr. Netanyahu said. “We struck a very severe blow at Hamas and the other terrorist organizations. We have no intention of attacking the residents of Gaza.”
“IDF处理地道的工作即将结束，但是只有当以色列居民能在相当长的一段时间内享受安静与和平时，这项行动才会结束，”内塔尼亚胡说。“我们对哈马斯和其他恐怖组织进行了一次沉重的打击。我们没想要袭击加沙居民。”
Tzipi Livni, an important member, along with Defense Minister Moshe Yaalon, of Mr. Netanyahu’s kitchen cabinet, has made clear that Israel will take unilateral actions to defend its interests and no longer wants to negotiate a cease-fire with Hamas, but would be happy for Egypt and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority to try. She told Ynet, the Israeli news agency, that any agreement with the Hamas was not expected now. “You want to talk about lifting the siege?” she asked. “Not with us, and not now.”
重要的内阁成员齐皮·利夫尼(Tzipi Livni)和内塔尼亚胡的亲信、国防部长摩西·亚阿隆(Moshe Yaalon)已明确表示，以色列将采取单边行动来维护它的利益，不想再与哈马斯就停火协议进行谈判，但是如果埃及和巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)愿意尝试，他们也表示欢迎。她告诉以色列新闻机构Ynet，目前没有任何与哈马斯达成协议的可能性。“你想谈解除围困的事？”她问道。“别跟我们谈，别现在谈。”
Ms. Livni has been pushing for a unilateral cease-fire to be followed by multilateral diplomacy, with Israel seeking support for the reconstruction of Gaza in return for a gradual demilitarization through stricter controls over smuggling. She is said to favor an Egyptian effort to give Mr. Abbas and the Palestinian Authority control over the Rafah crossing on the Gaza side.
利夫尼一直希望各方面的外交政策都能遵守这个单边停火协议，以色列希望人们能支持加沙重建，以便通过对走私进行更严格的控制逐步实现非军事化。据说她支持埃及的行动——将加沙方面的拉法(Rafah)过境点的控制权交给阿巴斯和巴勒斯坦民族权力机构。
Few believe that Hamas will voluntarily disarm or stop trying to resist Israeli occupation of Palestinian lands. But Hamas’s effectiveness may be much weaker.
很少有人相信哈马斯会自愿解除武装，或者停止抵抗以色列占领巴勒斯坦土地的行为。不过，哈马斯的行动效力将大幅度降低。
Israel’s desired outcome could unravel if Hamas continues to attack Israel — at least 53 rockets were fired on Monday, while Israel had decreed a seven-hour unilateral and partial cease-fire. And Palestinians accused Israel of violating its own cease-fire when the air force struck a house in the Shati refugee camp in Gaza City, killing a girl, 8, and wounding at least 29.
如果哈马斯继续袭击以色列，以色列想要的结果就不会出现——周一哈马斯至少发射了53枚火箭弹，而以色列则遵守了7小时的单边和局部停火协议。巴勒斯坦指责以色列违反了自己的停火协议，因为空中部队对加沙城沙地难民营(Shati)的一座房屋发动袭击，导致一名8岁女孩丧生、至少29人受伤。
Palestinians said the attack came minutes after the cease-fire, while one Israeli official, Yoav Poli Mordechai from Cogat, the army agency that controls coordination with Gaza, told Israel Radio that the attack was several minutes before. The Israeli military, for its part, said the strike, aimed at “a senior Hamas operative,” was at “approximately 10 a.m.,” when the cease-fire began.
巴勒斯坦称，袭击是在停火协议生效几分钟后发生的，而以色列官员、国防部政府领土活动协调处(Cogat)的约阿夫·波利·莫迪凯(Yoav Poli Mordechai)却告诉以色列电台(Israel Radio)，攻击是在停火协议生效前几分钟进行的。活动协调处负责与加沙的协调工作。以色列军方则表示，此次袭击目标是“一名哈马斯高级特工”，在“上午10点左右”进行，也就是停火开始的时候。
Earlier Monday, Israel bombed the house of an Islamic Jihad commander in northern Gaza, Danyal Manzour, killing him.
周一早些时候，以色列对加沙北部伊斯兰圣战指挥官丹亚尔·曼祖尔(Danyal Manzour)的房屋进行了轰炸，这名指挥官在轰炸中死亡。
After sharp criticism from the United States and the United Nations of Israel’s strike on three Islamic Jihad fighters on a motorcycle outside a United Nations school on Sunday, which killed seven other people nearby, Israel had announced Monday’s cease-fire to last from 10 a.m. local time until 5 p.m.
美国与联合国(United Nations)都对以色列周日在一所联合国学校外攻击一辆摩托车上的三名伊斯兰圣战武装人员的做法进行了猛烈抨击，那次袭击共导致附近七人死亡，以色列曾宣布，周一的停火协议将从当地时间上午10点持续到下午5点。