JERUSALEM — Israeli tanks rolled into the northern Gaza Strip Thursday night and naval gunboats pounded targets in the south as Israel began a ground invasion after 10 days of aerial bombardment failed to stop Palestinian militants from showering Israeli cities with rockets.
耶路撒冷——本周四晚上，以色列开始了对加沙地带的地面入侵，他们的坦克挺近加沙北部，海军舰只打击了加沙南部的目标。此前，10天的空袭未能阻止巴勒斯坦武装分子向以色列城市发射大量火箭弹。
Israeli leaders said the incursion was a limited one focused on tunnels into its territory like the one used for a predawn attack Thursday that was thwarted. They said it was not intended to topple Hamas, the militant Islamist movement, from its longtime rule of Gaza.
以色列领导人说，此次袭击是一个有限的军事行动，重点打击通向以色列领土的地道；本周四黎明之前，就有武装分子利用这种地道发起袭击，结果遭到挫败。他们说，这次行动不是为了推翻激进的伊斯兰运动组织哈马斯(Hamas)对加沙地带的长期统治。
As rockets continued to rain down on Israeli cities, a military spokesman said the mission's expansion was “not time bound” and was aimed to ensure Hamas operatives were “pursued, paralyzed and threatened” as it targeted “terrorist infrastructure” in the north, south and east of Gaza “in parallel.”
随着大量火箭弹继续倾泻到以色列城市，一位军方发言人说，这个行动“没有时间限制”，它旨在“追捕、击垮、威慑”哈马斯的作战人员，同时也将在加沙北部、南部和东部有针对性地打击“恐怖分子的基础设施”。
As midnight approached Thursday, residents of some sparsely populated farmland in northern Gaza were cowering in their homes, afraid to answer mobile phones or peek out windows. Some sent text messages reporting that they could hear tank shelling, heavy artillery, and F-16s dropping bombs. Moussa al-Ghoul, 63, who lives northwest of Beit Lahiya, said his neighborhood had turned into “a war zone” with tanks surrounding his home, having destroyed those of two of his sons. He said shells were landing “everywhere.”
周四，随着午夜将至，在加沙北部一些人烟稀少的农业地区，居民们蜷缩家中，不敢接听手机，也害怕窥视窗外的情况。有人发短信说，他们能听到坦克炮声、重型火炮声和F-16战斗机投掷炸弹的声音。63岁的穆萨·古勒(Moussa al-Ghoul)住在拜特拉希亚的西北部，他说，他所在的社区变成了“一个战区”，坦克包围了他的家，还摧毁了他两个儿子的居所。他说，炮弹壳落得“到处都是”。
Gaza news outlets reported that electricity had been cut to 80 percent of the coastal territory after cables bringing power from Israel were damaged.
加沙的新闻媒体称，从以色列接入的供电线缆遭到破坏之后，加沙沿海80%的区域都停了电。
After the early-morning tunnel episode, the day settled into an extended calm as both sides abided a United Nations request for a five-hour humanitarian pause in the fighting. But by 3 p.m., the violence roared back as the Palestinian death toll neared 250 and more than 120 rockets rained on cities throughout southern and central Israel all afternoon and evening.
清晨发生地道袭击事件之后，气氛变得比较平静，因为双方都按照联合国的要求，进行了五个小时的人道主义停火。但到下午3点时，暴力行动大幅重燃，巴勒斯坦死亡人数接近250人，整个下午和晚上，有120多枚火箭弹倾泄在以色列南部和中部地区。
“We will strike Hamas and we are determined to restore peace to the state of Israel,” the military spokesman, Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, told reporters in a conference call. “It will progress according to the situation assessment and according to our crafted and designed plan of action to enable us to carry out this mission.”
“我们会打击哈马斯，我们决心让和平重新回到以色列，”以色列军方发言人彼得·莱诺尔(Peter Lerner)中校在一次电话会议中表示。“我们制定和设计了可以实现这一目标的计划，我们会根据这个计划以及对情况的估计来开展行动。”
Israel began to draft 18,000 reservists, adding to 50,000 already mobilized in recent days; Lerner said the ground forces would include infantry and artillery units, armored and engineer corps, supported by Israel's “vast intelligence capabilities,” air force and navy.
除了最近几天已经召集的5万预备役人员，以色列开始召集另外的1.8万名；莱诺尔表示，地面部队将包括步兵和炮兵部队，装甲和工程兵部队，而以色列“巨大的情报力量”、空军和海军将为他们提供支援。
Fawzi Barhoum, a spokesman for Hamas, called the invasion “a dangerous step.”
哈马斯发言人法瓦兹·巴荷姆(Fawzi Barhoum)称以色列的入侵是“危险的一步”。
“The occupation will pay its price expensively,” he said in a statement, referring to Israel, “and Hamas is ready for confrontation.”
以色列会“为其占领行动付出昂贵代价”，他在一份声明中说，“哈马斯已做好抵抗准备。”
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel did not make a public statement Thursday night, but several of his ministers said on television that a unanimous Cabinet had authorized Netanyahu and the defense minister a few days ago to send in ground troops when they deemed necessary.
本周四晚上，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)没有发表公开声明，但他的几位部长在电视上表示，内阁几天前已经一致批准，授权内塔尼亚胡和国防部长在他们认为有必要的时候派出地面部队。
“With a heavy heart we embarked on this operation, in order to destroy the tunnels, as just this morning we have seen their deadly potential,” said Naftali Bennett, the economy minister and leader of the right-wing Jewish Home party. “Difficult days are ahead of us,” he added. “We are also operating against the rockets and all of the existing threats, but the No. 1 target is the tunnels.”
“我们怀着沉重的心情，开始了这个打击地道的行动，因为就在今天早上，我们已经看到了它们可能带来的生命损失，”经济部长纳夫塔利·贝内特(Naftali Bennett)说，他也是右翼党派犹太家园党(Jewish Home party)的领袖。“艰难的日子还在前面，”他说。“我们也会对火箭弹和已经出现的其他威胁予以打击，但头号目标还是地道。”
Israel did not send ground troops into Gaza during eight days of cross border violence in 2012. It was condemned internationally for an intense three-week air-and-ground campaign in 2008-09, when 1,400 Palestinians were killed along with 13 Israelis in fierce street fighting. Israel originally seized the territory in the Six-Day War in 1967 and evacuated its settlers and soldiers in 2005, but maintained restrictions on imports, exports and travel for the Palestinians left behind.
在2012年为期8天的跨边界暴力活动期间，以色列没有派遣地面部队进入加沙。2008到2009年发生了为期三周的空中和地面激战，当时有1400名巴勒斯坦人和13名以色列人在激烈的巷战中丧生。为此，以色列遭到了国际社会的谴责。该国最初是在1967年的第三次中东战争(Six-Day War)中占领了这片领土，2005年，它撤离了定居者和士兵，但在进口、出口和旅行方面继续对留下的巴勒斯坦人加以限制。
The military operation started about 10 p.m., hours after Israel bombed a rehabilitation hospital and another airstrike killed four children playing on a Gaza City rooftop — an echo of the previous day's bombing that left four young children, all cousins, dead on a beach.
这次的军事行动从晚上10点左右开始。就在数小时之前，以色列还轰炸了一所康复医院，加沙城内四个在屋顶玩耍的孩子也在另一起空袭丧生——而在前一天的空袭中，也有四个有亲戚关系的幼儿在沙滩上丧生。
It had been a roller-coaster day, starting with Israel's early-morning report that it had foiled the attack through the tunnel at about 4:30 a.m. by striking from the air at 13 Palestinians who emerged from it and tried to infiltrate a kibbutz, the first time that had happened in the current conflagration. Lerner said later that the incursion “illustrates the clear and immediate threat we have from the Gaza Strip,” and noted that Israel had uncovered four similar tunnels into its territory over the last 18 months.
这一天的状况犹如过山车一样，一开始是以色列在清晨表示，它在凌晨4：30挫败了一起利用地道开展的攻击，从空中打击了13名巴勒斯坦人，这些人从地道出来，试图渗透到以色列的一个集体农场，这还是本场冲突中首次出现这样的情况。莱诺尔后来说，这种入侵“说明加沙地带给我们带来了明确无疑的直接威胁”，他还指出，以色列在过去18个月发现了四条通向该国领土的类似隧道。
The humanitarian pause urged by the United Nations started at 10 a.m., and Gaza residents filled the streets, shopping for food and toys and crowding cash machines open for the first time since the operation began. But the lull was pierced around noon by a brief flurry of mortars fired from Gaza, with rockets fired toward Israel precisely at 3 p.m., the designated endpoint of the lull. The strikes continued through the afternoon and evening.
联合国呼吁的人道主义停火从上午10点开始，此后加沙居民挤满了街道，纷纷购买食物和玩具，交火以来首次开放的提款机前，也围满了加沙居民们。但在中午时分，加沙传来短暂的迫击炮发射声，打破了这种平静，下午3点，联合国指定的人道主义停火时间结束，加沙开始向以色列发射火箭弹，并持续到整个下午和晚上。