JERUSALEM — As Israel intensified its aerial assaults on Tuesday against symbols of Hamas rule in Gaza and other targets, new efforts were underway to forge a cease-fire, though they were mired in confusion and mixed signals after 22 days of fighting.
耶路撒冷——以色列周二加强了对加沙的哈马斯(Hamas)统治象征物及其他一些目标的空袭。与此同时，各方正在为达成停火协议进行新的努力，尽管在22天的战斗后，这些努力深受混乱和信息矛盾的困扰。
The renewed diplomatic push came after what Palestinians said was a devastating hit on the only electricity plant in the Gaza Strip, which set off a huge fire and threatened to create a major humanitarian crisis, with the Palestinian enclave lacking the means to operate the water and sewage systems as well as hospitals.
巴勒斯坦称，加沙地带唯一的发电厂遭受毁灭性打击，引发了大火，并可能造成严重的人道主义危机，因为巴勒斯坦的这块飞地将无法让上下水系统和医院正常运行。随后，各方再次进行了外交努力。
Following increasingly urgent international calls for a halt in the hostilities, the West Bank-based Palestinian leadership, led by President Mahmoud Abbas, announced that Hamas and Islamic Jihad, the main Palestinian factions fighting in Gaza, were ready for an immediate 24-hour truce, and that a Palestinian delegation was planning to head to Cairo for broader cease-fire talks.
在国际社会要求停战的呼吁日益迫切后，身处约旦河西岸的以马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)为首的巴勒斯坦领导层宣布，在加沙作战的巴勒斯坦主要派系哈马斯和伊斯兰圣战组织(Islamic Jihad)有意立即实行24小时休战，并称巴勒斯坦的一个代表团正计划前往开罗，参加更广泛的停火谈判。
In a statement from the West Bank city of Ramallah, the leadership said it had held intensive consultations with leaders of Hamas and Islamic Jihad and that a request by the United Nations to extend the truce to 72 hours was being considered favorably.
在从约旦河西岸城市拉姆安拉发表的声明中，巴勒斯坦领导层称已同哈马斯和伊斯兰圣战组织的领导人举行了密集磋商，并且正在考虑接纳联合国提出的将休战延长至72小时的请求。
But Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas spokesman in Gaza, immediately responded in a text message that the announcement of a unilateral, 24-hour truce was “incorrect and has nothing to do with the positions of the resistance.”
但是，哈马斯在加沙的发言人萨米·阿布·祖赫里(Sami Abu Zuhri)立即通过短信回应称，宣布24小时单方面休战是“错误的，绝不代表抵抗力量的立场”。
He added: “When we have an Israeli commitment with an international obligation of a humanitarian cease-fire, we will study it. But declaring a unilateral truce while the occupation kills our children, this will never happen.”
他接着说：“当以色列承诺履行人道主义停火的国际义务时，我们会予以考虑。但在占领军让我们的孩子殒命时宣布单方面停火，这一点永不会发生。”
Later Tuesday, Mohammed Deif, the commander of Hamas’s military wing who lives in hiding, said there would be no cease-fire before Israel stopped its attacks and the blockade on Gaza was lifted.
周二晚些时候，隐匿行踪的哈马斯军事部门指挥官穆罕默德·戴夫(Mohammed Deif)表示，在以色列停止攻击并取消对加沙的封锁之前，不会停火。
“We will not accept any middle-ground solutions at the expense of the resistance and our people’s freedom,” he said in a two-minute audio recording on Hamas’s Al-Aqsa television, which resumed broadcasting a few hours after Israeli airstrikes on its headquarters in Gaza City early Tuesday.
“我们绝不接受任何以抵抗力量和民众自由为代价的折衷方案，”他在哈马斯旗下的阿克萨电视台(Al-Aqsa)播放的两分钟录音讲话中表示。周二清早，以色列对阿克萨电视台在加沙城的总部发动空袭，但几小时后，该电视台开始恢复节目播放。
The Israeli leadership did not publicly respond to Mr. Abbas’s initiative.
以色列领导层并未公开回应阿巴斯的提议。
A military spokesman, Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, said Israeli forces were continuing operations in Gaza “to deal with the tunnels, to address the rockets and to strike at Hamas’s infrastructure.” But he said he had “no confirmation” that the military had struck the power plant and said that in any case the plant “was not a target.”
以色列军方发言人彼得·勒纳中校(Lt. Col. Peter Lerner)称，以色列军队准备在加沙继续行动，“以处理隧道和火箭弹，并对哈马斯的基础设施进行打击”。不过他说，“不能证实”军方曾对发电厂发动袭击，而且表示这座电厂无论如何“都不是攻击目标”。
Militants from Gaza fired rockets toward Jerusalem and Tel Aviv on Tuesday night and the Gaza Health Ministry reported that 13 people were killed in Israeli shelling of Jabaliya in the northern Gaza Strip.
周二夜间，加沙武装分子向耶路撒冷和特拉维夫发射了火箭弹。加沙卫生部称，加沙地带北部的贾巴利亚有13人丧生于以色列的炮火之下。
More than 1,200 Palestinians have been killed since Israel began its offensive on July 8, most of them civilians, according to the Health Ministry in Gaza. On the Israeli side, 53 soldiers have been killed since the army sent ground forces in on July 17, and three civilians have been killed by rocket and mortar fire from Gaza.
根据加沙卫生部的统计，自7月8日以色列发动袭击以来，共有1200多名巴勒斯坦人丧生，其中大多是平民。以色列方面，自军方7月17日派遣地面部队以来，共有53名士兵身亡，另有三个平民死于来自加沙的火箭弹和迫击炮。
A senior Palestinian official with knowledge of the latest cease-fire contacts said that internal Palestinian talks were continuing. Speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate diplomacy, he said that Khaled Meshal, the exiled Hamas political leader who is based in Qatar, had agreed to a truce, but that there seemed to be disagreement or problems of coordination with some Hamas officials in Gaza.
了解最新停火提议内情的一名巴勒斯坦高级官员称，巴勒斯坦内部的对话仍在继续。由于外交努力的敏感性，此人要求不具名。他说，身处卡塔尔的流亡哈马斯政治领导人哈立德·迈沙阿勒(Khaled Meshal)已经同意休战，但是似乎与加沙的一些哈马斯官员存在异议或协调问题。
The Palestinian official added that the power plant might be an additional factor pushing the sides toward a cease-fire, in order to avert a crisis. The plant had been Gaza’s main source of electricity in recent days, after eight of 10 lines that run from Israel were damaged.
这名巴勒斯坦官员还表示，发电厂可能会成为推动双方达成停火以避免危机的又一因素。近日来，这座发电厂一直是加沙的主要电力来源，因为从以色列输电的10条线路中有8条遭到了破坏。
The Palestinian announcement seemed to be part of a larger effort involving Egypt, an important participant in any cease-fire deal for both Israel and Mr. Abbas. The Egyptian Foreign Ministry said that Mr. Abbas had initiated a proposal to bring representatives of the Palestine Liberation Organization, Hamas and Islamic Jihad to Cairo for another round of cease-fire talks, which Egypt supports.
巴勒斯坦的声明似乎属于与埃及相关的更大的努力的一部分。以色列与阿巴斯若想达成任何停火协议，埃及都是重要参与方。埃及外交部表示，阿巴斯已提议将巴勒斯坦解放组织(Palestine Liberation Organization)、哈马斯和伊斯兰圣战组织的代表聚集到开罗，以开展新一轮的停火谈判，对此埃及予以支持。
Regarding the talks, Osama Hamdan, a Hamas official in Beirut, said: “On principle, we have no objection and accept. A delegation will be formed, and we might leave for Cairo soon.”
身处贝鲁特的哈马斯官员奥萨马·哈姆丹(Osama Hamdan)在提到这些谈判时说：“原则上，我们不反对，愿意接受。代表团很快就会组成，我们可能马上就会前往开罗。”
Israel favors Egypt as a broker and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has described Egypt’s original proposal for a cease-fire, which Israel accepted and Hamas rejected, as “the only game in town.”
以色列倾向于让埃及充当中间人，而且总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)称，埃及关于停火的最初提议是“唯一选择”。当时，以色列接受了这个提议，但哈马斯予以了拒绝。