My great-grandfather’s brother, Michael Adler, was a distinguished rabbi who in 1916 compiled the “Prayer Book for Jewish Sailors and Soldiers” at the front during World War I. As “chaplain,” he toured battlefields administering last rites. At the end of the war he asked if British Jews had done their duty.
我曾祖父的兄弟迈克尔·阿德勒(Michael Adler)是一名杰出的拉比，曾于1916年在第一次世界大战的前线上编撰了《犹太水手士兵祈祷书》(Prayer Book for Jewish Sailors and Soldiers)。作为“随军神职人员”，他在战场上巡视，主持临终圣礼。在战争结束后，他提出一个问题：英国犹太人是不是尽到了自己的义务。
“Did those British citizens of the House of Israel to whom equality of rights and equality of opportunity were granted by the State some sixty years ago, did these men and women do their duty in the ordeal of battle?” he wrote. “Our answer is a clear and unmistakable YES! English Jews have every reason to be satisfied with the degree of their participation both at home and on the battlefronts in the struggle for victory. Let the memory of our sacred dead — who number over 2,300 — testify to this.”
“国家已经在大约六十年前，向这些出自以色列家(House of Israel)的英国公民赋予了同等的权利和同等的机遇。这些男男女女在战争的磨难中，有没有尽到自己的义务？”他写道。“我的回答是明确、不容置疑的‘是’！英格兰的犹太人有充分的理由，对自己在国内的参与、以及在前线奋战取胜的投入感到满意。那超过2300名阵亡英烈的记忆，就能证明这一点。”
The question for European Jewry was always the same: belonging. Be they French or German, they worried, even in their emancipation, that the Christian societies that had half-accepted them would turn on them. Theodor Herzl, witnessing French anti-Semitism during the Dreyfus case, wrote “The Jewish State” in 1896 out of the conviction that full acceptance for the Jews would never come.
欧洲犹太人面临的问题始终是相同的：归属感。无论是法国人还是德国人，即使是在经历了解放运动之后，也仍在担忧，并未全心全意接纳他们的基督教社会，有朝一日会与他们为敌。西奥多·赫茨尔(Theodor Herzl)在德雷福斯(Dreyfus)事件期间，目睹了法国的反犹太情绪。他认定了全面接受犹太人永远不会实现，于是在1896年撰写了《犹太国》(The Jewish State)。
Herzl was prescient. Zionism was born of a reluctant conclusion: that Jews needed a homeland because no other place would ever be home. Scrawny scholars would become vigorous tillers of the soil in the Holy Land. Jews would never again go meekly to the slaughter.
赫茨尔有先见之明。犹太复国主义产生于这样一个不情不愿的结论：犹太人需要一个家园，因为其他任何地方都不是家。清瘦的学者来到圣地(Holy Land)满怀热情地耕作。犹太人再也不会温顺地面对杀戮了。
The ravages of European nonacceptance endure. I see within my own family how the disappearance of a Jewish woman grabbed by Nazis on the streets of Krakow in 1941 can devour her descendants. I understand the rage of an Israeli, Naomi Ragen, whose words were forwarded by a cousin: “And I think of the rest of Europe, who rounded up our grandparents and great-grandparents, and relatives — men, women and children — and sent them off to be gassed, no questions asked. And I think: They are now the moral arbiters of the free world? They are telling the descendants of the people they murdered how to behave when other anti-Semites want to kill them?”
欧洲不接纳犹太人的灾难性影响长期存在。我在自己的家族内部就看到过，一名犹太妇女的失踪对其后代是怎样的折磨。她是1941年在街头被纳粹掳走的。我理解以色列人内奥米·拉根(Naomi Ragen)的愤怒，她的一位表亲转达了她的话：“我想到了欧洲的其他人，他们曾不分男女老少，把我们的祖父母、曾祖父母和其他亲人集中起来，用毒气熏死，没人提出任何疑问。我想：他们如今居然成了自由世界的道德裁判？他们居然要求被他们杀害的人们的后代，在其他反犹主义者想要杀死自己的时候仍然要老老实实的？”
Those anti-Semites would be Hamas, raining terror on Israel, whose annihilation they seek. No state, goes the Israeli case, would not respond with force to such provocation. If there are more than 1,000 Palestinian deaths (including 200 children), and more than 50 Israeli deaths, Israel argues, it is the fault of Hamas, for whom Palestinian victims are the most powerful anti-Israeli argument in the court of world opinion.
那些反犹主义者就是哈马斯了，他们正在以色列制造大量恐怖事件，他们的目的就是消灭以色列。以色列提出，面对这样的挑衅，没有国家会不做出武力回应。以色列称，如果说有超过1000名巴勒斯坦人死亡（包括200名儿童），以及超过50名以色列人死亡，那也都是哈马斯的错；而对于哈马斯来说，在国际舆论的法庭上，巴勒斯坦受害者是反对以色列的最有说服力的论据。
I am a Zionist because the story of my forebears convinces me that Jews needed the homeland voted into existence by United Nations Resolution 181 of 1947, calling for the establishment of two states — one Jewish, one Arab — in Mandate Palestine. I am a Zionist who believes in the words of Israel’s founding charter of 1948 declaring that the nascent state would be based “on freedom, justice and peace as envisaged by the prophets of Israel.”
我之所以是一个犹太复国主义者，是因为我祖先的经历让我相信，犹太人需要祖国，这是在1947年联合国181号决议中通过的，该决议呼吁在巴勒斯坦托管地建立两个国家：一个犹太国，一个阿拉伯国。我还相信以色列1948年的建国宪章中的话：这个新国家将建立在“以色列先知设想的自由、公正与和平的基础之上”。
What I cannot accept, however, is the perversion of Zionism that has seen the inexorable growth of a Messianic Israeli nationalism claiming all the land between the Mediterranean and the Jordan River; that has, for almost a half-century now, produced the systematic oppression of another people in the West Bank; that has led to the steady expansion of Israeli settlements on the very West Bank land of any Palestinian state; that isolates moderate Palestinians like Salam Fayyad in the name of divide-and-rule; that pursues policies that will make it impossible to remain a Jewish and democratic state; that seeks tactical advantage rather than the strategic breakthrough of a two-state peace; that blockades Gaza with 1.8 million people locked in its prison and is then surprised by the periodic eruptions of the inmates; and that responds disproportionately to attack in a way that kills hundreds of children.
然而，我不能接受的是对犹太复国主义的曲解，这种曲解见证了弥赛亚以色列民族主义不可阻挡的抬头，甚至要求获得地中海和约旦河之间的所有土地；它在将近半个世纪的时间里带来了对西岸另一个民族的长期压迫；它导致了以色列定居点在任何巴勒斯坦国的西岸土地的不断扩张；它以分而治之的名义孤立了萨拉姆·法耶兹(Salam Fayyad)这样的温和的巴勒斯坦人；它推行的政策让犹太人的民主国家成为不可能；它追求的是战术效益，而不是两国和平的战略突破；它封锁了加沙地带，把180万人关进监狱，然后震惊于囚徒的周期性暴动；它做出了过度的反应，发动杀害了数百名儿童的袭击。
This, as a Zionist, I cannot accept. Jews, above all people, know what oppression is. Children over millennia were the transmission belt of Jewish survival, the object of what the Israeli novelist Amos Oz and his daughter Fania Oz-Salzberger have called “the intergenerational quizzing that ensures the passing of the torch.” No argument, no Palestinian outrage or subterfuge, can gloss over what Jewish failure the killing of children in such numbers represents.
这是我作为一个犹太复国主义者不能接受的。犹太人比其他任何人都更知道什么是压迫。几千年来，孩子一直是犹太民族传承的纽带，以色列小说家阿莫斯·奥兹(Amos Oz)和女儿法尼亚·奥兹-扎尔茨贝格尔(Fania Oz-Salzberger)曾说，犹太人传承的目标是“用两代人之间的问答测验确保火炬的传递”。无论是巴勒斯坦人的愤怒还是托辞，没有任何理由可以掩盖大批儿童死亡所代表的犹太人的失败。