JERUSALEM — Israel and its main militant Gaza adversary weighed an Egyptian cease-fire proposal late Monday, signaling a possible de-escalation of a week-old aerial battle that has left nearly 200 Palestinians dead from Israeli bombs and has sent hundreds of Gaza rockets deep into Israeli territory.
耶路撒冷——周一晚些时候，以色列与加沙的主要激进派对手在权衡埃及的一个停火提议。这表明，已持续一周的相互空袭可能会出现缓和。目前已有将近200名巴勒斯坦人死在了以色列的炸弹之下，而加沙方面也向以色列纵深发射了数百枚火箭弹。
A senior government official in Israel, which has been preparing for the possibility of a ground invasion of Gaza, said it was seriously considering the Egyptian proposal. The initial reaction of Hamas, the dominant militant group in Gaza, was less committal, but was not an outright rejection.
以色列正在为地面入侵加沙做准备，一名高级政府官员说，以色列正在严肃考虑埃及的提议。加沙主要军事组织哈马斯(Hamas)最初的反应并没有这么积极，但是也并未直接拒绝。
The proposal envisioned a cease-fire beginning at 9 a.m. local time on Tuesday. It called for border crossings to Gaza to “be opened,” with the movement of people and goods to be “facilitated once the security situation becomes stable on the ground.” Within 48 hours of the initial cease-fire taking hold, talks are to be held in Cairo with the Israelis and the Palestinian militant factions on conditions for a longer-term truce, according to the text of the proposal.
提议称，双方应于当地时间周二上午9点开始停火，并呼吁“开放”通往加沙的过境通道，“一旦当地安全状况稳定下来，”就开始进行人员与物资输送。根据提议文本，在最初的停火协议生效后48小时内，以色列和巴勒斯坦武装人员将在开罗展开对话，以求达成时间更长的休战协议。
An Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokesman, Ambassador Badr Abdelatty, said: “We hope it will be acknowledged. We are in close contact with everyone.”
埃及外交部(Foreign Ministry)发言人、大使巴德尔·阿卜杜勒阿蒂(Badr Abdelatty)说：“我们希望该提议能得到承认。我们在与各方保持密切联系。”
Adding weight to the efforts, Secretary of State John Kerry was expected in Cairo as early as Tuesday, according to officials in the region and the Egyptian state news agency.
当地官员和埃及国家通讯社表示，美国国务卿约翰·克里也将来到开罗，时间最早为周二，进一步加强了促成停火的努力。
The senior Israeli official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate diplomacy, said a meeting of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s security cabinet had been called for early Tuesday morning to discuss the proposal and that it was “being considered very seriously.”
前述以色列高级官员称，周二清晨，总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)的安全内阁召开会议，对该提议进行了讨论，而且它得到了“非常严肃的考虑”。
Hamas, which had said it was prepared to fire rockets indefinitely, appeared to want better terms. Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas official in Gaza, wrote on his Facebook page: “The responses of resistance will continue until the demands of our people are achieved. Any unilateral Israeli cessation has no value in the light of the large crimes and the disastrous humanitarian situation.” Osama Hamdan, a spokesman for the Islamic group, was more dismissive. He told CNN’s “The Situation Room” that Hamas did not receive the proposal directly from the Egyptians. That, he said, meant it was “an initiative for the media — it’s not a political initiative.”
表示准备无限期发射火箭的哈马斯似乎希望能得到更有利的条件。加沙的哈马斯官员(Sami Abu Zuhri)在他的Facebook页面上写道：“抵抗仍将继续，除非我们人民的需求能得到满足。在发生大规模犯罪以及人道主义状况陷入灾难的情况下，以色列任何的单边停火都没有意义。”该伊斯兰组织的发言人奥萨马·哈姆丹(Osama Hamdan)对此更加不屑一顾。他告诉CNN的“局势研究室”(The Situation Room)，哈马斯并没有直接从埃及人那里获知这项提议。他说，这表明这是“一个面向媒体的行动——而不是政治行动。”
One of Hamas’s demands has been the opening of the Rafah border crossing between Gaza and Egypt, but the Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokesman said the proposal refers only to crossings “between Israel and Gaza.”
哈马斯一直要求开放加沙与埃及之间的拉法(Rafah)过境点，但是埃及外交部发言人称，提议中仅提到了“以色列与加沙”之间的过境点。
Egypt is widely considered the natural regional mediator in such conflicts. But Egypt’s relations with Hamas, an offshoot of the Muslim Brotherhood, have turned bitter since the military ouster last year of Egypt’s elected Islamist president, Mohamed Morsi, a leader in the Brotherhood. Under the new president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, a former general who led the military takeover, Egypt has shut down most of the tunnels beneath its border with Gaza that were both an economic lifeline for the Palestinian coastal enclave as well as a major channel for weapons smuggling.
在这类冲突中，埃及作为地区调解人被普遍认为有着得天独厚的优势。但自从军方去年罢黜了伊斯兰派民选总统、穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)领导人穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)后，埃及与身为穆兄会分支的哈马斯关系紧张。在新任总统、领导了军方夺权行动的前将军阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattahel-Sisi)的领导下，埃及关闭了其与加沙边界地下的大部分隧道。这些隧道既是巴勒斯坦这块沿海飞地的经济生命线，也是武器走私的主要渠道。
Tony Blair, the special envoy of the quartet of Middle East peacemakers, which included the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia, welcomed the Egyptian proposal in a statement. He said: “The hope is that this cease-fire will allow us to put in place such a long-term strategy for the future in Gaza and the West Bank. The international community will give its full backing to such an initiative.”
美国、欧盟、联合国和俄罗斯是中东的四方调解者。它们的特使托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)在一份声明中对埃及的提议表示欢迎。他说：“希望这份停火协议会让我们为加沙和约旦河西岸的将来制定一项类似的长期战略。国际社会将全力支持这样的倡议。”
International entreaties for a cease-fire intensified in recent days amid growing alarm over the rising death toll in Gaza, but there was no letup in the hostilities on Monday. At least 14 Palestinians were killed on the seventh day of Israel’s air offensive aimed at quelling the rocket fire, bringing the total death toll in Gaza to about 180, many of them civilians. An airstrike on a house in Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip killed a girl, 4, her father and her uncle, according to Gaza health officials.
最近几天，加沙地带与日俱增的伤亡人数让人们越来越不安，国际社会的停火呼声加强，但战斗在周一并未减弱。以色列为遏制火箭弹袭击发起的空袭进入第七天，至少14名巴勒斯坦人死亡，导致加沙的总遇难人数升至大约180人，其中许多遇难者是平民。加沙的卫生官员称，加沙地带南部拉法一座房屋遭遇空袭，一名4岁的女孩和父亲、叔父一同遇难。
Pierre Krähenbühl, the commissioner general of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency in Gaza, which assists Palestinian refugees, said in a news briefing that he was “deeply alarmed and affected by the escalation of violence in the Gaza Strip and the devastating human and physical toll it is taking on civilians, including Palestine refugees.”
协助巴勒斯坦难民的联合国难民救济和工程处驻加沙办事处(United Nations Relief and Works Agency in Gaza)的总代表皮埃尔·克朗恩布尔(Pierre Krähenbühl)在一次新闻发布会上表示，他“对加沙地带暴力的升级，以及它给包括巴勒斯坦难民在内的平民造成的毁灭性人员伤亡深感担忧和震惊。”