JERUSALEM — The fighting is barely over in the latest Gaza war, with a five-day cease-fire taking hold on Thursday, but attention has already shifted to the legal battlefield as Israel gears up to defend itself against international allegations of possible war crimes in the monthlong conflict.
耶路撒冷——本周四，为期五天的停火还在继续，最近这次加沙战争的硝烟尚未散尽，但人们的注意力却已经转移到了法律的战场上：国际社会指控以色列可能犯有战争罪行，该国则在做为自己辩护的准备。
Israel has excoriated the United Nations Human Rights Council over the appointment of Prof. William Schabas, a Canadian expert in international law, to head the council’s commission of inquiry for Israel’s military operations in the Gaza Strip.
联合国人权理事会(United Nations Human Rights Council)任命加拿大籍国际法专家威廉·沙巴斯(William Schabas)教授，针对以色列在加沙地带的军事行动，领导一个委员会开展调查。以色列对这项任命予以了谴责。
The broader struggle will be over what some experts describe as Israel’s “creative” interpretation of international law for dealing with asymmetric warfare in an urban environment. More than 1,900 Palestinians were killed in the recent fighting, a majority of them believed to be civilians, while on the Israeli side 64 soldiers and three civilians were killed.
更广泛的针锋相对将围绕着以色列对一项国际法的诠释展开，这项国际法涉及在城市环境中开展不对称作战，一些专家说以色列对它的解释“富有创意”。最近的战斗导致逾1900名巴勒斯坦人丧生，据信他们中大部分都是平民，而以色列一方有64名士兵和3名平民丧生。
Israeli leaders view the Human Rights Council as hopelessly biased against Israel and say statements made in the past by Professor Schabas rule him out as a fair adjudicator. In one prime example, Professor Schabas was filmed in New York almost two years ago saying Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was his “favorite” to be in the dock at the International Criminal Court.
以色列领导人认为人权理事会对本国成见太深，说沙巴斯教授的言论已经表明，他不会进行公平的评判。一个典型的例子是，一段近两年前在纽约拍摄的视频显示，沙巴斯教授说，他“最乐于”见到以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)坐上国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)的被告席。
“The report of this committee has already been written,” Mr. Netanyahu said this week. “They have nothing to look for here. They should visit Damascus, Baghdad and Tripoli.”
“这个委员会的报告已经事先写好，”内塔尼亚胡本周表示。“他们在这里没有什么可看的。他们应该去大马士革、巴格达和的黎波里。”
Mr. Netanyahu has repeatedly accused Hamas of a “double war crime” for targeting Israeli civilians with its rockets and, he says, using Gaza’s civilians as a human shield for its activities.
内塔尼亚胡曾多次指责哈马斯(Hamas)犯有“双重战争罪行”，一是用火箭弹袭击以色列平民，二是把加沙平民当作人盾来掩护自己的活动。
Yuval Steinitz, Israel’s minister for strategic affairs, said that paradoxically, the only way Professor Schabas could prove he was worthy of the job would be by resigning from it.
以色列战略部长尤瓦尔·施泰尼茨(Yuval Steinitz)说，矛盾的是，沙巴斯教授能证明他配得上这份工作的唯一途径就是辞职。
Responding to the accusations by telephone from London, Professor Schabas said Thursday: “Everybody in the world has opinions about Israel and Palestine. I certainly do.”
对于这些指控，沙巴斯教授本周四在伦敦通过电话做出了回应：“世界上每个人对于以色列和巴勒斯坦都有自己的看法。我肯定也是一样。”
He added: “I was recruited for my expertise. I leave my own personal views at the door, as a judge does.”
他还说：“我是因为自己的专长受到任命的。我会像法官一样，把个人看法放在一边。”
Rejecting assertions that he is “anti-Israeli,” he said he had lectured in Israel often and was on the board of the Israel Law Review. “I don’t think everyone in Israel agrees,” he said. “I would fit in well there.”
对于有人说他“反以色列”，沙巴斯予以了否认，他说自己常常到以色列讲学，还是《以色列法律评论》(Israel Law Review)委员会的成员。“我不认为以色列所有人都同意这种说法，”他说。“我会很好地融入那里。”
A similar Human Rights Council inquiry into the 2008-9 war in Gaza led to the Goldstone Report. Named for Richard Goldstone, the South African jurist who led that inquiry, the report said it found evidence of potential war crimes committed by both Israel and Hamas. It accused Israel of intentionally targeting civilians in Gaza as a matter of policy, a blow that Mr. Netanyahu once described as a strategic challenge.
对于2008年到2009年在加沙发生的战争，人权理事会也进行过类似的调查，并公布了《戈德斯通报告》(Goldstone Report)。报告以调查的领导者南非法学家理查德·戈德斯通(Richard Goldstone)的名字命名，称发现以色列和哈马斯都可能犯有战争罪行。该报告指控称，以色列对加沙平民的故意袭击是其政策的一部分。内塔尼亚胡曾把这份报告带来的打击描述成一个战略挑战。
Mr. Goldstone later retracted that central accusation, writing in The Washington Post, after Israeli investigators presented counterevidence, “If I had known then what I know now, the Goldstone Report would have been a different document.” Other members of the Goldstone panel stood by the report.
后来，以色列调查人员提出反证之后，戈德斯通撤回了这个核心指控，他在《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)刊发的文章中写道：“我现在才知道这些情况，如果当初知道的话，《戈德斯通报告》就会大不相同。”戈德斯通小组的其他成员则对该报告予以支持。
In Israel’s latest aerial and ground campaign, several episodes already stand out as likely focuses of international attention, including several deadly Israeli strikes at or near United Nations schools in Gaza where thousands of civilians were taking refuge, actions that the secretary general of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, has denounced as “outrageous, unacceptable and unjustifiable.”
在以色列最近进行的空中和地面行动中，其中一些已经相当引人侧目，可能会成为国际社会的关注点，比如以色列针对联合国位于加沙的学校或其附近区域的几次致命攻击。当时，数以千计的平民在这些学校里避难，联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)谴责这些袭击“令人震惊、不可接受、毫无道理”。
Critics have also pointed to the Israeli military’s policy of bombing family homes it said were being used by Hamas operatives or other groups as “command and control centers” or for weapons storage, causing heavy casualties among civilians, including many minors and women, despite a system of issuing prior warnings. B’Tselem, an Israeli human rights organization, asserted in a recent report that the practice violated the international legal principles of distinction and proportionality, calling into question the clear military nature of the targets and whether the military gains were significant enough to justify the deaths of civilians.
批评者还指出，以色列说哈马斯或其他团体的武装分子正在把一些家庭住宅用作“指挥和控制中心”或武器储存点，因而对其进行轰炸，但这种军事政策造成了大量平民伤亡，其中包括许多未成年人和妇女，尽管以色列提前会发出警告。以色列人权组织B'tselem在最近的一份报告中表示，这种做法违反了“有区分”和“相称性”的国际法律原则，该组织质疑以色列袭击的目标是否具有明确的军事性质，以及他们是否取得了足够大的军事进展，与平民的伤亡状况相称。
In a move that some Israelis hope will take the wind out of the Human Rights Council inquiry and other potential ones by outside groups, Israel’s attorney general and the military advocate general are setting up an independent mechanism for investigating the events in Gaza, and the state comptroller also plans an inquiry.
以色列总检察长和军法署署长正在设立一个独立的系统来调查在加沙发生的事情，一些以色列人希望此举会减少对人权理事会和其他外部团体可能开展的调查的支持。另外，以色列国家审计机构也计划开展调查。
But the Israeli military is not waiting. Lt. Col. Eran Shamir-Borer, head of the strategic affairs branch in the international law department at the Military Advocate General’s Corps, said in an interview that a recently established military committee of fact-finding teams, independent of the chain of command and made up largely of reservists, is already investigating certain cases and could have some preliminary findings as early as Friday.
但以色列军方没有被动地等待。埃伦·沙米尔-博尔(Eran Shamir-Borer)上校是军法署(Military Advocate General’s Corps)国际法部门战略事务科的负责人，在接受记者采访时，他表示，最近成立的事件调查小组军事委员会独立于指挥系统，主要由预备役人员组成，该委员会已经在调查某些事件，最早可能在本周五就会得出一些初步调查结果。
Speaking at military headquarters in Tel Aviv, Colonel Shamir-Borer said that since Israel’s 2006 war in Lebanon, the army’s legal counselors have become more involved in operational activity before and during military campaigns, as well as in the aftermath, training commanders, reviewing planned targets and deploying to the Gaza border to work with commanders at the division level during the recent conflict.
在特拉维夫的军事总部，沙米尔-博尔上校表示，自2006年以色列在黎巴嫩的战争以来，军方法律顾问就在军事行动之前、期间和之后增加了对作战行动的参与。在最近的冲突中，他们对指挥官进行培训、审核计划袭击的目标，并部署到加沙边境，与师一级指挥官进行合作。