JERUSALEM — Michael B. Oren, who spent four years as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's ambassador to Washington, has called on Netanyahu to cancel his speech to Congress about Iran. Amos Yadlin, a former military intelligence chief who frequently briefed the Israeli prime minister on security matters, denounced the event as “irresponsible.”
耶路撒冷——迈克尔·B·奥伦(Michael B. Oren)曾在四年时间里担任以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)驻华盛顿大使，他呼吁内塔尼亚胡取消在美国国会的有关伊朗问题的演讲。曾定期向这位以色列总理汇报安全事务的前军事情报长官阿莫斯·亚德林(Amos Yadlin)也谴责说，他的这一举动是“不负责任的”。
Both men criticized their former boss for politicizing issues vital to Israel’s future. Both also have their own political motives: Mr. Oren is running for Parliament with a new center-right party, and Mr. Yadlin is the defense-minister designee of the center-left party Zionist Camp.
两人都表示，他们前上司的这一做法，将把对以色列的未来至关重要的问题政治化。两人也都怀有自己的政治动机：加入了一个新成立的中右翼政党的奥伦正在竞选议会席位，而亚德林则是中左翼政党犹太复国主义阵营(Zionist Camp)提名的国防部长候选人。
If Mr. Netanyahu imagined that the speech, scheduled for two weeks before the March 17 elections in Israel, would bolster his status as statesman, the undiplomatic way it was arranged has instead given his challengers an opening to undermine his main campaign platform. The backlash, not only from the White House but also from congressional Democrats, has reverberated in Israel, where maintaining bipartisan support in Congress is considered as crucial as preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons. On Tuesday Senate Democrats who had been pushing a new sanctions bill against Iran — which Mr. Netanyahu supports — said they would hold off a vote until late March, handing the Obama adminstration a victory.
这次演讲的时间被定在了3月17号以色列大选的两周之前。内塔尼亚胡也许在幻想这次演讲会提升他作为政治家的威望，但演讲的安排方式在外交层面上十分不明智，因而给了挑战者一个削弱他主要竞选纲领的机会。白宫和民主党议员的强烈反应已经在以色列引起了重大反响，在以色列看来，维系美国国会两党的支持与阻止伊朗开发核武器同样重要。一直在推动一项针对伊朗的新制裁法案的民主党参议员在周二表示，将把对该法案的投票推迟到三月底，这相当于让奥巴马政府在此事上获得了胜利。该法案得到了内塔尼亚胡的支持。
As in America, conservatives like Mr. Netanyahu tend to have the advantage when election campaigns are about security, and so far his opponents have emphasized pocketbook issues and corruption. But political analysts say that international isolation is a prime public concern of Israelis, and that attacking Mr. Netanyahu for deteriorating relations with Washington, Israel’s main defender on the world stage, could be a winning message in a tightening race.
就像在美国一样，当竞选活动涉及安全议题时，内塔尼亚胡这样的保守派人士往往具有优势，迄今为止，他的对手已经强调了经济和腐败议题。但政治分析人士称，国际上的孤立是以色列公众的主要担忧，美国是以色列在国际舞台上的主要庇护者，用与华盛顿关系的不断恶化的罪名来攻击内塔尼亚胡，可能成为在这场日趋激烈的选战中获胜的法宝。
“It’s a huge miscalculation,” said Eytan Gilboa, a professor at Bar Ilan University who specializes in political communication and Israeli-American relations. “People are now questioning his judgment. If the opposition would not just focus on economic and social issues, but also argue against his claims on security and foreign policy, I think this exercise might backfire.”
“这是一次巨大的误判，”巴伊兰大学(Bar Ilan University)研究政治沟通和以美关系的教授埃坦·吉勒博阿(Eytan Gilboa)说。“人们目前正在质疑他的判断。如果反对派不光专注于经济和社会议题，还反驳他在安全和外交政策上的主张，我认为他的这种做法可能会引火上身。”
The invitation to address a joint meeting of Congress to make the case for new sanctions on Iran came from the House speaker, John A. Boehner, a Republican. Mr. Boehner did not consult either the Obama administration or his Democratic counterparts, something several veteran diplomats described as unprecedented. The White House responded with its own snub, announcing that President Obama, who has promised to veto any new sanctions, would not meet with Mr. Netanyahu while he was in town.
内塔尼亚胡被邀请在美国国会的联合会议上发表演讲，阐述对伊朗实施新制裁的理由。这个邀请是众议院议长、共和党人约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)发出的。博纳既没有与奥巴马政府商量，也没有咨询民主党的国会领袖。一些资深外交官认为，这种做法是史无前例的。白宫以自己的傲慢进行了回应，称奥巴马总统不会在内塔尼亚胡到访时与他会面。奥巴马已经誓言，将否决任何新的制裁措施。
Senate Democrats who had been pushing the new sanctions bill said Tuesday that they would hold off a vote until late March. And while officials on both sides say the underlying security and intelligence cooperation between the United States and Israel will continue, some political analysts close to the Obama administration say it may not work as hard to rally its allies to Israel’s side in critical forums like the United Nations.
一直在推动新的制裁法案的民主党参议员周二表示，将把投票推迟到三月末。尽管双方的官员都说，美国和以色列基本的安全和情报合作将继续进行，一些与奥巴马政府关系密切的政治分析人士说，在联合国这样的关键论坛上，奥巴马政府可能不会像以前那么卖力地鼓动盟友去支持以色列的立场。
Mr. Netanyahu, who has made the Iranian nuclear program a mainstay of his career, insists his motivations are not political and declared on Sunday: “I will go anywhere I am invited in order to enunciate the state of Israel’s position and in order to defend its future and its existence.” Ron Dermer, the Israeli ambassador to Washington who orchestrated the invitation with Mr. Boehner, said at an event in Florida that speaking out on Iran was the prime minister’s “deepest moral obligation” and “most sacred duty.”
一直以来，内塔尼亚胡把伊朗核计划作为其职业生涯的主要任务，他坚称，自己没有政治动机。他在周日宣布：“只要能够阐明以色列的立场、捍卫以色列的未来和存在，哪里邀请我，我都会去。”与博纳共同协调了这次邀请的以色列驻华盛顿大使罗恩·德尔梅(Ron Dermer)在佛罗里达州的一个活动上说，阐述对伊朗问题的看法是总理“最深刻的道德义务”和“最神圣的职责”。
Yaakov Amidror, Mr. Netanyahu’s former national security adviser, said that “about the issue of Iran he is willing to go very far.”
内塔尼亚胡的前国家安全顾问雅科夫·亚米德洛尔(Yaakov Amidror)说，“在伊朗问题上，他愿意付出非常大的努力。”
“He is ready to do everything to prevent it from being signed, what he thinks is a bad agreement, to risk many things,” Mr. Amidror said of Mr. Netanyahu. “It is only because from his point of view he should prevent something that is so critical to be materialized that he allows himself to make moves that otherwise he would not.”
“他已经准备好了竭尽所能，在许多方面承受风险，来防止签署在他看来十分糟糕的协议，”亚米德洛尔提到内塔尼亚胡时说。“他允许自己采取在其他情况下不会采取的行动，只是因为在他看来，他应该避免如此至关重要的协议得以实现。”
Experts on Iran said they did not see any new developments in the continuing nuclear negotiations, or in the differences between Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu, that might explain the timing of the speech, or what appeared to be the willingness to risk the repercussions of its unorthodox arrangement. Some critics of the prime minister fear that the whole episode is strengthening Iran’s hand.
伊朗问题专家称，在持续不断的核谈判，以及奥巴马和内塔尼亚胡的分歧中，他们看不出任何新的动向可以解释这次演讲的时间安排，或是他为何愿意承担这种非正统安排方式的后果。针对内塔尼亚胡的一些批评人士担心，整个事件将让伊朗在未来谈判中拥有更大的筹码。
Israeli and American commentators have described a toxic mix of political considerations in both countries — a touch of pre-election panic by Mr. Netanyahu meeting up with Mr. Boehner’s opportunism. Many have called it self-promotion with a high cost, clumsy at best, if not cynical.
以色列和美国的评论人士称，两个国家的政治考虑形成了一个不良组合——内塔尼亚胡在大选之前的恐慌，加上博纳的机会主义。许多人称这种做法是代价高昂的自我宣传，至少是很拙劣的，甚至毫无诚意。
“It’s proven again that what we export best as Israelis is chutzpah,” said Mitchell Barak, a Jerusalem political consultant and pollster. Nahum Barnea, a leading Israeli columnist, said Mr. Netanyahu “lost the major benefit” of the speech because “the whole idea is now contaminated.”
“这再次证明，作为以色列人，我们最善于输出的是大胆和放肆，”耶路撒冷的政治咨询顾问、民意调查人米切尔·巴拉克(Mitchell Barak)说。以色列著名专栏作者纳胡姆·巴尔内亚(Nahum Barnea)说，内塔尼亚胡将“无法得到演讲本应带来的主要益处”，因为“如今整个想法都受到了玷污”。