JERUSALEM — Israel and its Palestinian adversaries in Gaza sharply escalated the latest resurgence of hostilities on Tuesday, with the Israeli military conducting a deadly aerial bombardment that targeted at least 160 Gazan sites, including homes, and militants in the enclave responding with missile volleys aimed at Israeli population centers, including Tel Aviv and Jerusalem.
耶路撒冷——周二，以色列及其在加沙的巴勒斯坦对手大幅提升了新一轮冲突的强度。以色列军方实施了一轮致命性空袭，其攻击目标包括至少160个加沙地点，其中还有民居。加沙地带的武装人员则对特拉维夫和耶路撒冷等以色列的人口聚集中心发射大量导弹，以示回应。
The Israeli military said Gaza militants fired more than 150 rockets and that Israel’s missile defense system had thwarted at least 29 of them. More than 100 landed in Israel, the military said, but it was unclear whether they had caused any casualties or serious damage.
以色列军方称，加沙武装人员发射了150多枚火箭弹，其中至少29枚遭以色列导弹防御系统拦截。军方称，共有100多枚炸弹落入以色列境内，但目前仍不明确它们是否造成了伤亡或严重损害。
Hamas, the militant group that controls Gaza, took responsibility late Tuesday for having fired up to 40 long-range rockets, some of them intercepted over Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, where sirens sounded around 10 p.m. The Israeli military confirmed that one rocket hit Hadera, a city about 72 miles north of Gaza, the farthest range yet of the Gaza-based weapons.
控制加沙的激进组织哈马斯(Hamas)周二晚些时候宣布对发射多达40枚的远程火箭弹负责。其中有些炮弹在特拉维夫和耶路撒冷遭到拦截。晚上10点左右，两地拉响了警报。以色列军方确认，有一枚火箭弹击中加沙以北约72英里（约合116公里）外的哈代拉。这是从加沙发射的武器中迄今射程最远的一次。
Palestinian witnesses and health officials said at least 23 people had been killed in the Israeli attacks. They included seven in a house that was bombed after its occupants had been warned in a cellphone call to leave, and six in another house that members of Islamic Jihad, another militant group, said had belonged to one of its commanders. It was the deadliest day so far in the latest escalation of the long-running Israeli-Palestinian conflict, fed partly by the raw rage over the kidnapping and killing of three Israeli teenagers in the occupied West Bank last month, a massive security crackdown by Israel there, and the grisly kidnapping and killing of a Palestinian teenager from East Jerusalem last week.
巴勒斯坦的目击者和卫生官员称，至少有23人在以色列的袭击中死亡。其中包括一座房屋里的7人——里面的人首先接到警告他们离开的电话，房子随后被炸毁——以及另一所房子里的6人。武装团体伊斯兰圣战组织(Islamic Jihad)的成员称，后一座房子属于他们的一名指挥官。巴以冲突持续已久，而这是新一轮升级中迄今伤亡最惨重的一天。上个月，三名以色列少年在该国占领的约旦河西岸地区遭到绑架和杀害；以色列继而在那里发动了大规模的安全镇压行动；上周，来自东耶路撒冷的一名巴勒斯坦少年遭到残忍的绑架和杀害。这些事件激起的熊熊怒火是引发本轮攻击的部分原因。
In an ominous indication of further escalation, the Israeli government approved the call-up of 1,500 reservists, mainly Home Front Command and aerial defense units, and said later Tuesday that it had authorized the military to mobilize as many as 40,000 additional reservists if necessary for a possible ground invasion.
有不祥的迹象表明，冲突可能会进一步升级。以色列政府批准召集1500名预备役军人，主要补充后方司令部(Home Front Command)和防空部队。周二晚些时候，以色列政府又宣布，已授权军队再调动多达4万名的预备役军人，以防需要发动地面进攻。
The Israeli military also reported Tuesday evening, with little detail, that it had defeated an effort to attack an army base in southern Israel by “several gunmen armed with grenades” who had approached from the sea. The army said it had killed four of the gunmen and was searching for others.
以色列军方还于周二傍晚通报，挫败了针对以南部的一座军事基地的袭击，但并未提供多少细节。袭击者是“几名配备手榴弹的持械歹徒”，通过海上接近基地。军方称，已击毙其中四人，目前正在寻找其他人。
The Israeli aerial barrage followed the firing of about 80 rockets out of Gaza on Monday that reached deep into southern Israel.
加沙地带周一发射了大约80枚直抵以色列南部的火箭弹。以色列随后发动了空袭。
Witnesses and Health Ministry officials in Gaza said the first of at least five deadly Israeli airstrikes on Tuesday destroyed a car in Gaza City, killing three unidentified occupants. The second was an Israeli bomb or rocket that witnesses said had been fired by an F-16 warplane on a house in Khan Younis, a town in the southeast part of Gaza, where seven occupants were found dead in the wreckage.
目击者和加沙的卫生部官员表示，以色列周二发动的空袭至少五次致人身亡，其中第一次摧毁了加沙城的一辆汽车，导致3名身份不明的乘客遇难。目击者称，第二次是一架F-16战斗机发射的一枚以色列炸弹或火箭弹，其攻击目标为加沙东南部汗尤尼斯镇的一座房屋。残骸中找到了7名死者。
A telephoned warning was made to the owner of the targeted home in Khan Younis five minutes before the bombing, apparently part of the Israeli military’s stated effort to minimize unintended civilian casualties. Salah Kaware, 25, who lived in the house, said that a call came to the cellphone of his brother’s wife, and that the caller urged them to leave.
在轰炸开始前五分钟，汗尤尼斯遭到攻击的那栋房屋的主人接到了警告电话。这似乎属于以色列军队所说的将无辜平民伤亡降到最低限度的一种举措。25岁的萨拉赫·卡瓦雷(Salah Kaware)住在这所房屋内。他表示，嫂子接到电话，打来的人催促他们离开住所。
An unidentified member of Hamas was reportedly killed in a third airstrike, in an open space in central Gaza. Health officials in Gaza said at least four residents had been killed in Israeli strikes elsewhere, including Gaza City and the northern part of Gaza. Ashraf al-Qedra, a Health Ministry spokesman, said more than 90 people had been wounded since the Israeli air assaults had begun.
据称，一名尚未确认身份的哈马斯成员在针对加沙中部一片开阔地的第三次空袭中丧生。加沙的卫生官员表示，以色列发动的攻击还造成加沙城及加沙北部等地的至少四名居民死亡。卫生部发言人阿什拉夫·盖德拉(Ashraf al-Qedra)表示，自以色列发动空袭以来，已有90余人受伤。
The Israeli military said that its targets had included what it called a “terror command center embedded within civilian infrastructure” utilized by a militant in the southern Gaza town of Rafah.
以军表示，他们的目标包括“隐藏在民用设施中的一处恐怖行动指挥中心”。他们声称，一个激进组织占用了这座位于加沙南部城镇拉法赫的民用设施。
The air campaign comes after three weeks of escalating confrontation, with rocket attacks from Gaza against southern Israel and Israeli airstrikes on targets it has described as concealed rocket launchers, training sites and weapons manufacturing facilities associated with Hamas and other militant groups. Fury on both sides over the teenage victims of Israel-Palestinian enmity have fed the momentum.
双方冲突不断升级，加沙向以色列南部地区发射火箭弹，而以色列则对其宣称的与哈马斯等激进组织有关联的隐蔽的火箭发射装置、训练场和武器制造厂发动空袭。三周之后，以军发动了本轮空中行动。双方都被巴以敌对导致的青少年遇难事件激怒，从而对冲突的不断升级起到了推波助澜的作用。
Al Aksa radio, run by Hamas, reported that residents received warnings a few minutes before homes were bombed. Hamas’s military wing said in an emailed statement that the bombing of the houses was “a serious escalation” that “will oblige us to enlarge our attacks deeper into Israel.”
哈马斯旗下的阿克萨(Al Aksa)电台报道，居民们在住所遭到轰炸的几分钟前收到警告。哈马斯的武装分支通过电子邮件发表声明称，轰炸民居导致“事态严重升级”，这“将迫使我们扩大攻击范围，深入以色列境内。”