JERUSALEM — Israel and the militant group Hamas seemed set on a collision course on Monday, with an escalation of cross-border clashes around the Gaza Strip, Hamas vowing to avenge the deaths of six of its fighters, and preparations underway for a possible large-scale Israeli operation in the Palestinian coastal territory.
耶路撒冷——本周一，以色列和激进组织哈马斯(Hamas)似乎在朝着硬碰硬的方向前进：加沙地带边界的冲突出现了升级，哈马斯宣称要为六名丧生的士兵进行报复，而以色列正在厉兵秣马，准备在巴勒斯坦的沿海领土采取一场可能规模颇大的行动。
Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the Israeli military, said that the army was completing the deployment of two infantry brigades along the border with Gaza and that the government had approved the call-up of 1,500 reservists, mainly Home Front Command and aerial defense units. “If last week we were talking about calm being answered by calm,” Colonel Lerner said, “we are now talking about preparing for an escalation.”
以色列军方发言人彼得·莱诺尔(Peter Lerner)中校说，军方已经在加沙边界部署好两个步兵旅，而政府已批准动员1500名预备役人员，主要是为后方司令部(Home Front Command)和防空部队补充力量。“如果说我们上周还在谈论‘以平静回应平静’，”莱诺尔中校说，“现在我们谈的就是为冲突升级做好准备了。”
Capitalizing on broader Israeli-Palestinian tensions after the kidnapping and killing of three Israeli teenagers in the West Bank last month and the grisly killing of a Palestinian teenager in Jerusalem last week, Hamas also called for a mass demonstration Monday night in the volatile West Bank city of Hebron. Hundreds of protesters scuffled with Palestinian Authority security forces and threw stones at them.
三名以色列少年上个月在约旦河西岸(West Bank)遭到绑架和杀害，一名巴勒斯坦少年上周在耶路撒冷遭到残忍杀害，因此巴以关系陷入了更广泛的紧张状态。哈马斯利用了这种形势，呼吁公众本周一晚间在动荡的约旦河西岸城市希伯伦举行游行。当晚有数百名抗议者向巴勒斯坦权力机构的安全部队投掷石块，并与他们发生打斗。
The developments were likely to further undermine Hamas’s recent reconciliation pact with the more moderate Palestinian Authority leadership based in the West Bank, which has been urging calm rather than protests. Intended to heal a seven-year split between the West Bank and Gaza, the pact resulted in a new government, but little else so far.
事态的发展很可能会进一步破坏哈马斯最近与位于约旦河西岸的巴勒斯坦权力机构领导层签订的和解协定。巴勒斯坦权力机构立场较为温和，敦促民众保持平静，不要抗议。和解协定的初衷是修复约旦河西岸和加沙地带之间七年来割裂的关系；协定建立了一个新政府，但迄今为止几乎没有取得别的成果。
The tit-for-tat Palestinian rocket attacks and Israeli airstrikes continued through Monday. Hamas said that five of its fighters had been killed by an Israeli airstrike on a tunnel used for “resistance” against Israel in southern Gaza, and that another had been killed in a separate air attack. Another militant who was trapped in the tunnel and presumed dead was found wounded but alive.
本周一，巴勒斯坦继续与以色列针锋相对，前者采取火箭弹攻击，后者则实施空袭。哈马斯称，一名士兵在一次以色列空袭中丧生。而在另一起以色列对加沙南部一条用来“抵抗”以色列的隧道发动的空袭中，有五名哈马斯士兵身亡。另有一名士兵被困在这条隧道中，人们本以为他已死亡，但后来发现他虽然受伤，却还活着。
Colonel Lerner said that the air force attacked the tunnel a couple of days ago and that when the Hamas militants entered it on Sunday night, possibly to use it for an attack on Israeli forces, it collapsed or exploded on them.
莱诺尔表示，以色列空军数天前袭击了那条隧道。哈马斯武装人员周日晚间进入隧道，可能是为了袭击以色列军队，结果隧道发生了倒塌或爆炸。
These were Hamas’s heaviest losses in months. Sami Abu Zuhri, a spokesman for the movement, said Israel “will not go unpunished for this crime.”
这是哈马斯数月来最惨重的损失。哈马斯发言人萨米·阿布·祖赫里(Sami Abu Zuhri)说，以色列的“这一罪行不会逃脱惩罚”。
Two more Gaza militants, believed to belong to a radical Salafi group, were killed in an Israeli airstrike on Sunday night. Israel said they had been involved in the recent rocket fire.
另外还有两名加沙武装分子，据信属于激进的萨拉菲派(Salafi)，也在以色列周日晚间的空袭中丧生。以色列表示，他们参与过最近的火箭弹发射。
Ashraf al-Qedra, a spokesman for the Health Ministry in Gaza, said that 15 people, including five children, were also wounded in Israeli airstrikes late Sunday and early Monday.
加沙卫生部发言人阿什拉夫·奎德拉(Ashraf al-Qedra)表示，以色列周日晚间和周一早晨的空袭，还导致15人受伤，其中包括五名儿童。
About 80 rockets and mortar shells fired from Gaza struck southern Israel on Monday. One reached deep into Israeli territory, crashing into open ground near Beersheba, about 25 miles from the border with Gaza. A soldier was wounded by shrapnel from one of the rockets, according to the military.
本周一，加沙发射了约80枚火箭弹和迫击炮弹，袭击以色列南部。其中一枚深入以色列领土，落到了距离加沙边境25英里的贝尔谢巴附近的开阔地。以色列军方表示，一名士兵被这些火箭弹的一块弹片击中受伤。
Hamas’s military wing claimed responsibility for firing dozens of rockets into Israel for the first time in this latest round of hostilities, which began three weeks ago.
哈马斯旗下武装表示对发射数十枚火箭弹到以色列一事负责。这还是哈马斯在始于三周前的最新一轮冲突中，首次如此表态。
In other political fallout, Avigdor Lieberman, Israel’s foreign minister and leader of the ultranationalist Yisrael Beiteinu party, broke off his 20-month alliance with the conservative Likud party led by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, citing “fundamental disagreements” between the two. Mr. Lieberman has urged much tougher action against Hamas and Gaza.
这轮冲突还导致了另一个政治后果：以色列外长、极端民族主义政党以色列家园党(Yisrael Beiteinu)领袖阿维格多·利伯曼(Avigdor Lieberman)，终止了该党与以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)领导的保守派政党利库德集团(Likud)为期20个月的联盟关系，理由是双方存在“根本分歧”。利伯曼呼吁对哈马斯和加沙地带采取远更强硬的行动。
The partnership between the two parties had been a kind of marriage of convenience to help both in the 2013 elections. Mr. Lieberman said he would remain in the governing coalition, for now preventing the government from falling. Analysts said that Mr. Lieberman had left before the Likud could throw him out, and that Gaza had given him an excuse. “The debate with Netanyahu may be authentic,” Gideon Rahat, a professor of political science at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said of Mr. Lieberman in an interview, “but he waited for an opportunity.”
两党之间的伙伴关系本来就是权宜之计，目的是赢得2013年的选举。利伯曼说，他暂时将继续留在执政联盟，以避免政府解体。分析人士表示，利伯曼是在利库德可以把他踢出局之前主动退出的，而加沙局势给他提供了一个借口。“他和内塔尼亚胡之间的争执可能是真的，”耶路撒冷希伯来大学(Hebrew University of Jerusalem)政治学教授吉迪恩·拉哈特(Gideon Rahat)在采访中评价利伯曼时说，“但他在等待机会。”