JERUSALEM — The Israeli cabinet on Sunday approved contentious draft legislation that emphasizes Israel’s Jewish character above its democratic nature in a move that critics said could undermine the fragile relationship with the country’s Arab minority at a time of heightened tensions.
耶路撒冷——以色列内阁周日批准了一项有争议的法律草案，草案强调，以色列的犹太属性高于其民主本性。批评人士称，在紧张局势加剧之际，这一举动可能会破坏与以色列国内阿拉伯少数族群的脆弱关系。
The promotion of a so-called nationality law has long stirred fierce debate inside Israel, where opponents fear that any legislation that gives pre-eminence to Israel’s Jewishness could lead to an internal rift as well as damage Israel’s relations with Jews in other countries and with the country’s international allies.
长期以来，对所谓的国籍法的推动，在以色列国内引发了激烈的辩论。反对者担心，任何赋予以色列的犹太属性以优势的立法，都可能导致内部分歧，并损害以色列与其他国家的犹太人，以及以色列在国际社会的盟友之间的关系。
The vote on Sunday also highlighted political fissures within the governing coalition amid increasing talk of early elections. The bill, a proposal for a basic law titled “Israel, the Nation-State of the Jewish People,” passed 14 to 6, with two centrist coalition parties opposing it. Parliament still has to approve the bill for it to become law.
周日的投票也突显出在有关早期选举的谈论日渐增多之际，执政联盟内部的政治分歧。该法案提议制定名为《以色列，犹太人的民族国家》(Israel, the Nation-State of the Jewish People)的基本法，以14票赞成、6票反对获得通过，两个中间派联合政党投了反对票。法案还需获得国会的批准，才能成为法律。
Answering critics who have questioned why such legislation is necessary 66 years after the founding of the state, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu defended the push for legislation.
在回应为何建国已66年了还需要这样的立法时，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)为推动该项立法进行了辩护。
“There are many who are challenging Israel’s character as the national state of the Jewish people,” he said before the cabinet vote. “The Palestinians refuse to recognize this, and there is also opposition from within.”
“有许多人在挑战以色列作为犹太人民族国家的身份，”他在内阁投票表决前说。“巴勒斯坦拒绝承认这一点，我们内部也有反对意见。”
He added, “There are those — including those who deny our national rights — who would like to establish autonomy in the Galilee and the Negev,” referring to areas of Israel with large concentrations of Arab citizens, who make up more than 20 percent of the population.
他接着表示，“有一些人，包括否认我们的民族权利的那些人，想在加利利和内盖夫设立自治区”。他提到的这两个以色列地区聚集着大量阿拉伯人，他们在人口中所占的比例超过20%。
Mr. Netanyahu is expected to amend the draft before any final vote in Parliament to ensure, as he put it, the principle of “equal individual rights for every citizen.”
内塔尼亚胡预计会在国会进行最终表决前，对草案进行修订，已确保他所说的“每一位公民都能享有平等的个人权利”的原则。
But Ahmad Tibi, a veteran Arab member of the Israeli Parliament, said there had long been tension between the halves of the term “Jewish democracy,” as Israel defines itself.
但以色列国会的资深阿拉伯议员艾哈迈德·提比(Ahmad Tibi)表示，以色列自称“犹太民主”，但长期以来，这个说法的两部分之间一直存在矛盾。
Speaking by telephone from New York, where he was attending a conference at the United Nations, Mr. Tibi said the proposed legislation “confirms that the Jewish and democratic state is fiction.”
正在纽约参加联合国会议的提比在接受电话采访时称，提议的立法“证实犹太而民主的国家是不存在的”。
He described Israel instead as a “Judocracy” that would never recognize the collective rights of a minority that has long suffered discrimination.
他把以色列的状况描述为“犹太统治”，称它永远不会承认一个长期受到歧视的少数群体的集体权利。
Adding to the rancor surrounding the vote, many here saw it as a cynical political maneuver intended by Mr. Netanyahu to buy the loyalty of hard-line members of his conservative Likud Party ahead of party primaries.
以色列的许多人认为，这是内塔尼亚胡的一个政治花招，目的是在党内初选之前，获得自己所在的利库德集团(Likud Party)的强硬派成员的支持，这让人们对此次表决愈发心生怨恨。
Among other things, the initial drafts promoted as private initiatives by right-wing lawmakers and approved on Sunday relegate Arabic from an official language to one with a “special status.”
周日通过的初步草案中包括，把阿拉伯语从官方语言降级为拥有“特殊地位”的语言。 右翼议员曾经把这些草案作为私下的倡议进行宣传。
In what appeared to be a political deal, Mr. Netanyahu promised government support for the hard-line versions of the bill in a first reading in Parliament this week on the condition that the law would be moderated before any final approval.
本周在议会首次正式宣读时，内塔尼亚胡承诺，政府将支持草案的强硬版本，条件是法案的力度在最终通过之前要有所缓和，这似乎是一笔政治交易。
Israel has no constitution; instead its constitutional character is made up of basic laws, judgments and the Declaration of Independence of 1948, which enshrines the right of the Jewish people to their own sovereign state and also pledges to “uphold the full social and political equality of all its citizens.”
以色列没有宪法；共同承担宪法角色的是基本法、法院的裁决，以及1948年的《独立宣言》(Declaration of Independence)。《独立宣言》中规定，犹太人有权建立自己的主权国家，并承诺将“充分保证所有公民在社会和政治领域的平等”。
Yair Lapid, the minister of finance and the leader of Yesh Atid, one of the coalition parties that opposed the preliminary bill, said he had spoken on Sunday with the family of Zidan Saif, a Druse police officer who was killed while protecting Jewish worshipers from two Palestinians who attacked a Jerusalem synagogue with butchers knives and a gun last week.
以色列财政部长、未来党(Yesh Atid Party)领导者亚伊尔·拉皮德(Yair Lapid)说，他周日和齐丹·赛义夫(Zidan Saif)的家人进行了交谈。赛义夫是德鲁兹派村庄的一名警察，上周，两名巴勒斯坦人用屠夫刀和一把枪袭击了一家耶路撒冷犹太教堂，赛义夫为了保护犹太祈祷者而遇害。未来党是执政联盟中的政党之一，它反对这个初步法案。