JERUSALEM — Hinting at a new strategy as he starts his fourth term with a more conservative coalition, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel told the European Union’s foreign policy chief that he wants to negotiate with the Palestinians over which settlements in the occupied West Bank would be annexed by Israel, officials said Tuesday.
耶路撒冷——以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在建立了一个更为保守的联合政府并开始其第四任任期后，暗示了新的策略。官员说，内塔尼亚胡向欧盟的外交事务主管表示，要与巴勒斯坦人讨论被占领的约旦河西岸的定居区中，有哪些会并入以色列。
Palestinian leaders quickly rejected the idea as a ploy to fend off mounting criticism of Israel and potential sanctions against it by Europe, saying that any new talks must tackle all issues on the table.
巴勒斯坦领导人很快就对这个想法提出反对，他们将之视为以色列的伎俩，目的是消除与时具增的批评浪潮和欧洲制裁的可能性。他们表示新会谈必须在台面上处理所有问题。
Mr. Netanyahu may be seeking to legitimize construction in settlements widely seen as violations of international law before negotiations even begin. But he could be signaling a new willingness to distinguish between the so-called settlement blocs that many international experts expect to remain in place and the far-flung communities they see as making a Palestinian state impossible — and, potentially, to freeze construction outside the blocs.
内塔尼亚胡可能是在尝试，在谈判开始前，将普遍认为违反国际法的定居区建设合法化。但他也可能是在展示自己的新意愿，对不同定居区区别对待，并考虑冻结定居点以外的建设。定居区分为两种，一种被称为定居点，许多国际专家预料它们会被保留下来，另一种则是让巴勒斯坦无法建国的偏远社区。
“The goal is to prove to the world that we’re serious about peace even if the Palestinians are not with us at the table,” said Michael B. Oren, Mr. Netanyahu’s former ambassador to Washington and now a member of Parliament and the governing coalition. “We should regain the legitimacy of building in these areas and say, ‘We’re not going to build in other areas.’ ”
“我们的目标是向世界证明，即便巴勒斯坦人没有坐上谈判桌，我们仍认真看待和平问题，”内塔尼亚胡的前任驻美大使、现任联合政府中的国会成员的迈克尔·B‧奥伦(Michael B. Oren)表示，“我们应当重新获得在这些地区进行建设的合法性，并表示‘我们不会在其他地区动工。’”
Two Israeli officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity under diplomatic protocol, confirmed that Mr. Netanyahu had made the proposal, first reported Tuesday in the Israeli daily Haaretz, in his meeting last week with Federica Mogherini, the European Union’s high representative for foreign affairs. Mark Regev, Mr. Netanyahu’s spokesman, declined to confirm or deny it, or to discuss its significance, as did David Kriss, a spokesman for the European Union’s delegation to Israel.
以色列日报《国土报》(Haaretz)周二首先报导称，两名以色列官员证实，内塔尼亚胡在上周与欧盟对外事务专员费德丽卡·莫盖里尼(Federica Mogherini)的会谈中，已经提出相关计划。出于对外交惯例的考虑，上述以色列官员要求匿名。内塔尼亚胡的发言人马克·雷格夫(Mark Regev)拒绝证实或否认这个说法，也不愿讨论其重要性。欧盟驻以色列代表团发言人大卫·克里斯(David Kriss)做出了类似表态。
The report in Haaretz, a leftist news organization highly critical of Mr. Netanyahu, was based on an anonymous Israeli official, who quoted the prime minister as telling Ms. Mogherini: “It’s clear there are areas that will remain under Israeli control under any agreement, just as it’s clear there are areas that will remain under Palestinian control under any agreement. Therefore, we can advance toward understandings on which areas we can continue building in.”
《国土报》是对内坦尼亚胡持强烈批评态度的左倾报纸，该报的这篇报导的基础是一名匿名的以色列官员提供的信息。这名官员引用总理对莫盖里尼的发言说：“无论达成何种协定，以色列持续掌握部分地区是不争的事实，就如同部分地区将持续掌握在巴勒斯坦人手中。因此，我们可以进一步达成共识，我们在哪些地区能持续建设。”
Under withering criticism from Washington and Europe for every settlement construction project he undertakes, Mr. Netanyahu has often argued that these initiatives would not materially affect the map for a potential two-state solution to the long-running conflict. But he has dismissed American and European demands for a halt to construction outside the large, urban blocs of settlements closest to Israel, as well as growing calls within Israel to define its future borders by shoring up some settlements and abandoning others.
内塔尼亚胡的每个定居区建设项目，都受到了欧美的严厉批评。他对此时常辩称，这些计划不会在实质上影响可以消弭长年冲突的两国方案中的疆界。但针对邻近以色列的大型都市定居点以外的区域，他也驳回了欧美要求暂停施工的要求，以及国内那些通过巩固部分定居区并弃置他者来定义未来疆界的呼声。
“He has a very right-wing coalition, and for him to come up with even this idea, starting negotiations on the settlements, it’s a major change,” said Eytan Gilboa, a professor at the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies at Bar-Ilan University near Tel Aviv. “The reason is the E.U. threat to impose certain restrictions or even sanctions against Israel if there is no peace process. It’s a good sign that the government understands now the threats and perhaps is ready to do something.”
“他有一个非常右翼的联合政府，即便他只是提出了这样的想法，开启关于定居区的谈判，这也算是一个重大变化，” 伊谈·吉博亚说，他是靠近特拉维夫的巴依兰大学(Bar-Ilan University)贝京-萨达特战略研究中心(Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies)的一名教授。“这是因为欧盟威胁以色列，如果不展开和平进程，将对它施加特定限制甚至是制裁。本届政府现在理解了这种威胁，并似乎准备有所作为，这是一个很好的迹象。”
Moav Vardi, the diplomatic correspondent for Israel’s Channel 10, said Mr. Netanyahu had given Ms. Mogherini “the ability to go to Brussels and say that ‘there is something to talk about; settlement blocs can be debated; it is possible to start rolling the ball called a diplomatic process.’ ” But Mr. Vardi, like many Israeli analysts, said the proposal would clearly be a “nonstarter” with the Palestinians.
以色列10频道(Channel 10)的外交事务通讯员莫夫·法蒂(Moav Vardi)称，内塔尼亚胡已经给予了莫盖里尼足够理由，“去前往布鲁塞尔，告诉他们‘有事情需要讨论；可以就定居点问题展开辩论；有可能可以启动外交程序’。”但同许多以色列分析者一样，法蒂认为这项提议显然不会为巴勒斯坦人接受。
Indeed, Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, denounced the proposal as “a request to continue illegal settlement construction with Palestinian consent.” Hanan Ashrawi, a member of the Palestine Liberation Organization’s executive committee, called it “a disingenuous and manipulative exercise of political and legal deception,” saying that any effort “to legalize the settlement blocs is a blatant attempt to steal more Palestinian land.”
实际上，巴勒斯坦首席谈判代表赛义卜·埃雷卡特(Saeb Erekat)已经指责这项提议是“要求巴勒斯坦同意继续非法定居点建设”。 巴勒斯坦解放组织(Palestine Liberation Organization)执行委员会委员哈南∙阿什拉维(Hanan Ashrawi)则将它称作“一个居心叵测、摆布他人的伎俩，以达成政治和法律方面的骗局，”并说任何尝试“将定居点合法化的行为都是对更多巴勒斯坦领土的公然窃取。”
The Palestinian leadership has accepted the concept of some settlements’ becoming part of Israel in exchange for comparable stretches of land from inside Israel’s 1948 borders, to be part of a future Palestine.
巴勒斯坦领导人已经接受一些定居点并入以色列领土的设想，以换取以色列1948年确立的国界内的相同面积的土地，使之成为将来的巴勒斯坦国的一部分。
But President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority has said he will re-enter negotiations only if they are based on the pre-1967 lines demarcating Israel, before any settlements were built, and are accompanied by a freeze of settlement construction and Israel’s release of long-serving Palestinian prisoners — conditions Mr. Netanyahu will not abide.
但巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)称，只有当谈判建立在定居点建造之前、1967年之前的边界基础之上，并且停止定居点建设、释放以色列关押的长期服刑的巴勒斯坦囚犯时，他才会重新进入谈判。而内塔尼亚胡并不接受这些条件。
Several Israeli analysts, therefore, saw Mr. Netanyahu’s proposal as a cynical tactic aimed at appeasing the European yearning for negotiations, making the Palestinians seem like the cause of the stalemate and reducing backlash for building.
因此，一些以色列分析者将内塔尼亚胡的提议视作一个旨在迎合欧洲对谈判的呼吁的虚伪策略，使得巴勒斯坦人看起来像是僵局的制造者，并减少对定居点建设的激烈反对。