JERUSALEM — In life, former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon was a polarizing figure, particularly after his turnabout from a builder of Jewish settlements to a man who forced their evacuation.
耶路撒冷——在以色列前总理阿里埃勒·沙龙(Ariel Sharon)的一生中，人们对他的看法两极分化严重，尤其是在他从犹太人定居点的建设者摇身变成迫使他们撤离的人之后。
But regardless of their political views, many Israelis who came here on Sunday to view his coffin admired Mr. Sharon as a bold decision-maker unafraid to take risks, something they say they are yearning for in the nation’s current leadership.
但周日到这里瞻仰沙龙灵柩的以色列人中，无论他们的政治观点如何，很多都很崇拜他，认为他是一个果敢的决策者，无惧承担风险；他们说，这正是他们渴望从以色列现任领导人身上看到的品质。
“He was a person that once he decided, he carried it out — decide and execute,” said Shlomo Shapira, 68, who rode for an hour on a bus provided by the state to get here. “Today, we have people who don’t decide and don’t execute.”
“沙龙一旦做了决定，就会执行它——做决定并且执行。”68岁的什洛莫·夏皮拉(Shlomo Shapira)说。他搭乘政府安排的巴士，经过一个小时的车程到达这里。“我们现在的领导人犹豫不决，也没有执行力。”
David Merklin, 40, said he, like most members of Mr. Sharon’s Likud Party at the time, voted in 2004 against Mr. Sharon’s plan to remove Israeli settlements in the Gaza Strip. But Mr. Merklin said he nonetheless respected Mr. Sharon for carrying out the disengagement, just as he had defied a commander’s orders when he led troops across the Suez Canal during the 1973 war.
40岁的戴维·马克林(David Merklin)说，2004年时，他跟沙龙所在的利库德党(Likud Party)的大多数成员一样，投票反对沙龙决定撤除加沙地带以色列定居点的计划。但马克林说自己仍然尊重沙龙，因为他在撤离计划上表现出的执行力，就像他在1973年的战争中率领军队穿越苏伊士运河时违抗指挥官的命令那样。
“It’s hard to control people like that if they work for you,” said Mr. Merklin, an investment adviser who brought along his 11-year-old daughter, Daphna. “You want leaders like that — leaders with guts.”
“如果那样的人为你工作，你很难控制他们。”马克林是一位投资顾问，他带上了他11岁的女儿达夫娜(Daphna)前来瞻仰沙龙的灵柩。“你希望有那样的领导者——有勇气的领导者。”
Mr. Sharon died Saturday afternoon at 85, after eight years in a state of minimal consciousness following a stroke that felled him at the height of his power. His body lay in state outside Israel’s Parliament building here on Sunday in a gray chill. Soldiers in berets murmured Tehillim, the Psalms Jews recite over bodies until burial, beside his flag-covered coffin, which was encircled by nine wreaths of orange, yellow, red and fuchsia flowers.
八年前的中风让沙龙从权力高峰跌下，之后他一直只有微弱的意识，上周六沙龙去世，享年85岁。周日，天色灰暗，寒意袭人，沙龙的遗体被安放在以色列国会大厦外，供公众瞻仰。戴着贝雷帽的士兵在他的棺材旁低声念诵《Tehillim》，这是犹太人在遗体下葬前背诵的诗篇。棺材上覆盖着国旗，橙色、黄色、红色和紫红色花朵扎成的九个花圈环绕着棺材。
A military funeral is scheduled for Monday afternoon on a hill overlooking his sprawling sheep farm in the Negev desert, after a morning memorial service at Parliament. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, along with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., is to be among the eulogizers; the prime minister of the Czech Republic and leading politicians from Russia, Germany, Spain and Canada are also expected to attend.
沙龙的军事葬礼定于周一下午进行，地点是在内盖夫沙漠的一座小山，可以俯瞰他庞大的牧羊场，当天上午国会将举办追悼会，致辞者包括以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)以及美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)。捷克总理以及俄罗斯、德国、西班牙和加拿大政要也将出席。
On Sunday, thousands of Israelis filed past Mr. Sharon’s body, pausing to say a prayer or to take a picture with their smartphones. Among them were old soldiers who had served under the former general, who was known as the Bulldozer, and a busload of high school students who had learned of him in history class. There were religious Jews and secular ones, right-wingers and left-wingers, natives and tourists.
周日，数以千计的以色列人从沙龙的遗体前走过，停下来做祈祷，或用智能手机拍照。沙龙曾经是一位将军，有“推土机”的称号；前来悼念的人中既有曾在沙龙麾下效命的老战士，也有一群在历史课上了解他的事迹的高中学生。既有犹太教徒，也有世俗犹太人，既有右翼人士，也有左翼人士，既有当地人，也有游客。
A Belgian businessman with a velvet skullcap who despised Mr. Sharon’s late-in-life moves regarding the Palestinians said he had come “to make sure he’s dead.” Orit Struck, a member of Parliament from the right-wing Jewish Home faction, wrote on Facebook, “We must also thank God that Sharon was removed from our public lives” before he might have dismantled Jewish settlements in the West Bank as he had done in Gaza.
一名戴着天鹅绒无边小帽的比利时商人，鄙视沙龙晚期对巴勒斯坦人采取的行动，说他来这里是为了“确认他真的死了”。国会成员奥利特·斯泰克(Orit Struck)来自右翼党派犹太家园党(Jewish Home)，他在Facebook上写道：沙龙本来可能会像对加沙那样，拆除约旦河西岸的犹太人定居点，“我们必须感谢上帝，在那之前他就被清除出我们的公共生活了”。
And Baruch Marzel, a religious settler in Hebron, wrote on the Hebrew website Srugim that Mr. Sharon would be “remembered in eternal disgrace in the book of traitors against the Jewish people.”
而在希伯来文网站Srugim上，移居到希伯伦的宗教人士巴鲁克·马泽尔(Baruch Marzel)说沙龙“将永远被耻辱地记录在犹太人民的叛徒册中。”
The Palestinian news media reported that people in Gaza burned pictures of Mr. Sharon and distributed sweets in the streets to celebrate the death of a man they called “the butcher.” Human rights groups denounced Mr. Sharon as a war criminal for his role, as defense minister, in the massacres in the Palestinian refugee camps of Sabra and Shatila in Lebanon in 1982.
据巴勒斯坦新闻媒体报道，加沙人焚烧沙龙的照片，在大街上分发糖果，庆祝这个被他们称作“屠夫”的人的死亡。1982年，在沙龙担任国防部长期间，黎巴嫩的萨布拉(Sabra)和夏蒂拉(Shatila)巴勒斯坦人难民营发生了大屠杀，沙龙由此被人权组织谴责为战犯。
But most Israelis mourned Mr. Sharon as a man whose imprint on their nation had been indelible, and one of the last of its founding generation of fighters and farmers.
但是，大多数以色列人都对沙龙的逝世感到悲痛，认为他给这个国家带来了不可磨灭的影响，而且他还是以色列建国的战士和农场主中，活到最后的其中一位。
“There hasn’t been a leader like him in Israel since the days of the Maccabees,” said Omri Cohen, 27, referring to the rebel Jewish army that seized control of the land more than 2,000 years ago.
“从马加比家族(Maccabees)时代开始，以色列就没有出过一位像他这样的领导人，”27岁的奥马里·科亨(Omri Cohen)说。他这里指的是2000多年前控制这片土地的犹太叛军。
“You can say that Bibi learned from Sharon, but they’re not the same,” added Mr. Cohen, referring to Mr. Netanyahu by his nickname. “The decisiveness, the charisma, the assumption of responsibility. The leader who takes responsibility is good, whether he is right or he is wrong.”
“你可以说比比(Bibi)从沙龙身上获得了一些经验，但他们不同，”科亨说。他这里用的是内塔尼亚胡的昵称。“从决断力、个人魅力和责任感上来看都是如此。愿意承担责任的领导人就是好领导人，不管他是对是错。”
Ettie Oren, 42, a mother of two, said she was glad the Education Ministry had asked schools to devote the week to discussions of Mr. Sharon. “Every individual who reconsiders in his life and can change opinions, can serve as a role model,” said Ms. Oren, referring to Mr. Sharon’s turnabout on Gaza settlements. “To say, O.K., we did something and let’s see if we can do something different, or do it differently — that’s what made him so courageous.”
42岁的艾蒂·奥伦(Ettie Oren)是两个孩子的母亲，她说她对教育部让学校用整个周的时间来谈论沙龙的做法感到高兴。“每个能重新审视自己的生活，并能够改变观点的人都可以被当做榜样，”奥伦这里指的是沙龙对加沙定居点的态度转变。“能够说，好的，我们做了一些事情，让我们看看我们是否能做一些不同的事，或者采用不同方式来做这件事——这就是他为何如此勇敢.”
For some, it was a more personal pilgrimage. Shalom Katzir spent more than a year as Mr. Sharon’s army driver, and recalled that “when he was angry and upset in the car” — which was often — Mr. Katzir would sing “Between the Euphrates and the Tigris,” a tune with biblical roots. “That would calm him down.”
对于有些人而言，前来瞻仰沙龙灵柩更多是出于私人感情。沙洛姆·卡齐尔(Shalom Katzir)在沙龙在军中时，当了他一年多的司机，据他回忆，“当他怒气冲冲，心烦意乱地坐在车里时”——这种情况经常发生——卡齐尔就会唱源于圣经的歌曲“在幼发拉底河与底格里斯河之间”(Between the Euphrates and the Tigris)。“这首歌会让他平静下来。”
Malcolm Hoenlein, executive vice chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, remembered preparing Mr. Sharon for his first meeting with President George W. Bush in 2001. True to his well-known appetites, Mr. Sharon had buckets of steak, lamb chops and hot dogs delivered to his Washington hotel room.
美国主要犹太组织主席会议(Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations)的执行副主席马尔科姆·霍恩莱恩(Malcolm Hoenlein)回忆了2001年，在沙龙与美国总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的首次会面之前，为沙龙做准备工作时的情形。沙龙不负他众所周知的好胃口，在华盛顿的酒店房间叫了大桶的牛排、羊排和热狗。
“He gets down to the last two hot dogs, and he says, ‘Are you sure you don’t want them?’ Mr. Hoenlein said with a laugh. “He loved everything, but he loved hot dogs in particular.”
“当他准备享用最后两个热狗时，他说，‘你确定你不吃吗？’”霍恩莱恩笑着说。“他什么都喜欢，但尤其喜欢热狗。”