JERUSALEM — Israel’s prime minister on Monday signaled no quick end to the three-week-old Gaza war, telling Israelis that they must prepare themselves for more fighting in order to crush what he described as the double threat of rockets and “death tunnels” into Israel dug by Hamas and its associates.
耶路撒冷——以色列总理周一表示，持续了三周的加沙战争不会迅速终结，他告诉以色列人，必须为更多战斗做好准备，以粉碎他所说的双重威胁：火箭弹和哈马斯及其同伙挖掘的进入以色列的“死亡地道”。
The speech by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in a televised address came after an informal lull by both sides in deference to a Muslim holiday was shattered by explosions that hit a children’s play area in a Palestinian refugee camp near Gaza City and killed at least 10, explosions near Gaza’s main hospital, a mortar attack that killed four Israeli soldiers on Israel’s side of the border, and what Israel called a foiled infiltration by Gaza gunmen through one of the tunnels. The number of casualties in that confrontation was not immediately clear. There was no indication that either Israel or Hamas, the main militant group in Gaza, were prepared to embrace growing calls for an immediate halt to the conflict.
本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)总理发表上述电视讲话之前，双方为一个穆斯林节日进行的非正式停火被一系列事件打破：加沙市附近一个巴基斯坦难民营的儿童游乐区发生多起爆炸，导致至少10人死亡；加沙一家大型医院附近发生多起爆炸；以色列边境发生的一次迫击炮袭击导致四名以军士兵死亡；以色列称加沙武装人员企图通过地道实施渗透，但被挫败。目前无法得知伤亡人数。也没有迹象显示，以色列或加沙主要军事组织哈马斯是否准备接受日渐强烈的立即停火的呼声。
“Israeli citizens cannot live with the threat from rockets and from death tunnels — death from above and from below,” Mr. Netanyahu said in his televised remarks. He said Israelis would not “end this operation without neutralizing the tunnels, whose sole purpose is killing our citizens.”
“以色列人民不能忍受来自火箭弹和死亡地道的威胁——来自空中和地下的死神，”内塔尼亚胡在电视讲话中说。他说，以色列人不会“结束这场行动，除非能消除这些地道的威胁，这些地道的唯一用途就是杀害我们的人民”。
More than 1,000 Palestinians, mostly civilians, and at least 48 Israeli soldiers and three civilians on the Israeli side have been killed in the conflict. Efforts by the United Nations Security Council and Secretary of State John Kerry to achieve even a temporary halt in the fighting have proved ineffective so far. Mr. Netanyahu did not announce an immediate broadening of the ground invasion in Gaza or any change in its stated goals of destroying Hamas’s rocket and tunnel infrastructure. But he suggested that the military campaign required “perseverance and determination,” and said that the demilitarization of Gaza had to be “part of any solution, and the international community must demand that.”
超过1000名巴勒斯坦人，以及至少48名以色列士兵和三名以色列平民在冲突中死亡。丧生的巴勒斯坦人多为平民。联合国安理会和美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)都为达成哪怕暂时的停火付出了努力，但迄今都未产生效果。内塔尼亚胡没有宣布立即扩大对加沙的地面袭击，或是更改破坏哈马斯火箭弹和地道基础设施的既定目标。但他暗示，这场战役需要“耐力和决心”，他说，解除加沙的武装必须成为“任何解决方案的一部分，国际社会必须提出这项要求”。
His defense minister, Moshe Yaalon, spoke of a campaign that could last “more long days.”
以色列国防部长摩西·亚阿隆(Moshe Yaalon)提到说，行动可能会持续“更多的漫长时日”。
“If the terrorist organizations in Gaza think they can break Israel and its citizens,” Mr. Yaalon said, “they will come to understand in the next few days that this is not the case.”
“如果加沙的恐怖组织认为可以击垮以色列和以色列人民，”亚阿隆说，“未来几天他们会明白，这是不可能的。”
Hamas, which does not recognize Israel’s right to exist, has framed the Gaza fighting as resistance against an enemy that has kept the Mediterranean enclave of 1.7 million Palestinians isolated and deprived, despite promises in a 2012 truce agreement that halted the last spate of intense fighting. Israel and Hamas accused each other of responsibility for the explosions at the Shati refugee camp and Shifa Hospital. Hamas and its affiliates said Israeli aerial attacks were responsible. The Israelis said errant Palestinian rockets that had been aimed at Israel but misfired were the cause.
哈马斯不承认以色列的存在，它把目前的加沙冲突定性为一场抵抗运动，他们要反抗的敌人，让这块地中海飞地上生活着的170万巴勒斯坦人陷入孤立，并被剥夺了权利，无视其在2012年结束了上一波密集冲突的停火协议中做出的承诺。以色列和哈马斯都指责对方应该为沙地难民营(Shati)和什法医院(Shifa)发生的爆炸负责。哈马斯及其分支组织表示，爆炸是以色列的空袭造成的。以色列方面说，是一些瞄准以色列但是发射时出现故障的火箭弹造成的。
Later, Israel’s military reported four Israeli soldiers were killed by mortar rounds fired from the Gaza side at an Israeli military staging area, and a fifth Israeli soldier was killed in combat in southern Gaza. The Israeli military also reported an infiltration attempt via tunnel near Nahal Oz, a community near the Gaza border, by gunmen who fired at soldiers, and that at least one of the gunmen had been killed. There were unconfirmed reports that some Israeli soldiers had been killed as well. Soon after, Hamas fired barrages of rockets deep into Israel, setting off sirens as far north as the Haifa area. The Israeli military said it had warned Palestinian civilians in several areas of the eastern and northern Gaza Strip to evacuate their homes “immediately,” through phone calls and text messages, signaling further escalation.
随后，以色列军方称，有四名以色列士兵在一个以色列军事集结地遭到来自加沙的迫击炮袭击身亡，另有一名士兵在加沙南部的冲突中死亡。以色列军方还提到，一些武装人员曾企图通过纳哈勒奥兹附近地道的渗透，并向以色列士兵开火，至少一名枪手被打死。纳哈勒奥兹是加沙边境附近的一个社区。未经证实的报道称，在事件中丧生的还有一些以军士兵。没过多久，哈马斯向以色列内陆发射了大量火箭弹，就连北部偏远的海法地区都拉响了警报。以色列军方表示，已经通过电话和短信提醒加沙地带东部和北部几个地区的巴勒斯坦平民，“立即”从家中疏散，暗示局势可能进一步升级。
Late Monday night, the Health Ministry in Gaza reported at least eight Palestinians were killed and 10 wounded from what it described as intensive Israeli airstrikes and tank shelling in both the northern and southern areas of Gaza.
周一深夜，加沙卫生部报告称，在加沙东部和南部地区遭到的密集空袭和坦克炮击中，有至少八名巴勒斯坦人身亡，10人受伤。
The official Palestinian news agency WAFA reported that at least 10 children were killed as they played in a park in the Shati refugee camp on the western edge of Gaza City. The Palestinian agency attributed the explosions to Israeli missiles. Gaza’s Health Ministry, offering a slightly different account, said the dead included at least eight children and two adults.
巴勒斯坦官方通讯社WAFA报道说，在加沙市西部边缘的沙地难民营的一个公园里，至少10名儿童在玩耍时遭遇爆炸身亡。WAFA认为，引发爆炸的是以色列发射的导弹。加沙卫生部的数据略有不同，称死难者包括至少八名儿童和两名成人。
But Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the Israeli military, denied that Israel had carried out any attacks at Shati or near the main Gaza City hospital, Shifa, saying those blasts “have absolutely nothing to do with us.” The Israeli military said the explosions had been caused by militant rockets aimed at Israel that had gone astray.
以色列军方发言人彼得·勒纳中校(Lt. Col. Peter Lerner)否认以色列在沙地或加沙市什法医院附近发动了任何袭击，称这些爆炸“绝对与我们无关”。以色列军方称，引发爆炸的是武装分子的火箭弹，原本瞄准以色列但发生了偏离。
The missile or rocket explosion near Shifa hit an outside wall of the compound, about 200 yards from the main entrance, and caused damage but no casualties. Plainclothes security officers barred reporters from entering the compound to get close to where the rocket or missile fell.
什法医院附近的导弹或火箭弹击中了医院大院的外墙，与医院大门有约200码（约合180米）的距离，一些设施遭到了破坏，但没有人员死伤。便衣安全官员禁止记者进入医院大院近距离观察火箭或导弹坠落的地点。
The fragility of the unsigned calm had been foreshadowed earlier in the day when several rockets and mortars were fired into Israel. A Palestinian man and a 4-year-old boy were reportedly killed by an Israeli airstrike and artillery fire, and an Israeli soldier was wounded in a gunfight in northern Gaza.
当天早些时候，以色列遭到了几枚火箭弹和迫击炮的袭击，预示了这种非正式停火的脆弱。一名巴勒斯坦男子和一名四岁男孩据称在以色列的一次空袭和火炮袭击中身亡，一名以色列士兵在加沙北部的枪战中受伤。