JERUSALEM — Israel laid claim on Sunday to nearly 1,000 acres of West Bank land in a Jewish settlement bloc near Bethlehem — a step that could herald significant Israeli construction in the area — defying Palestinian demands for a halt in settlement expansion and challenging world opinion.
耶路撒冷——周日，以色列不顾巴勒斯坦希望停止扩建定居点的要求，挑战世界舆论，在约旦河西岸地区伯利恒附近一个犹太人定居区周边，占据了大约1000英亩（约合405公顷）土地。此举可能预示着以色列将在该地区进行大规模建设。
Peace Now, an Israeli group that opposes the construction of settlements in the West Bank, said that the action on Sunday might be the largest single appropriation of West Bank land in decades and that it could “dramatically change the reality” in the area.
以色列“即刻和平”组织(Peace Now)反对在约旦河西岸建设定居点。该组织称，周日的举动可能是数十年来最大规模占用约旦河西岸土地的动作，这可能会“急剧地改变该地区的现状”。
Palestinians aspire to form a state in the lands that Israel conquered in 1967.
巴勒斯坦人渴望在1967年被以色列占领的土地上建国。
Israeli officials said the political directive to expedite a survey of the status of the land came after three Israeli teenagers were kidnapped and killed in June while hitchhiking in that area. In July, the Israeli authorities arrested a Palestinian who was accused of being the prime mover in the kidnapping and killing of the teenagers. The timing of the land appropriation suggested that it was meant as a kind of compensation for the settlers and punishment for the Palestinians.
以色列官员表示，当局之所以发布政治指令，要求加速调查这块土地的情况，是因为三名以色列青少年今年6月在该地区搭便车时，遭到绑架并被杀害。7月，以色列当局逮捕了一名巴勒斯坦人，称他是绑架、杀害三名青少年的主谋。占用土地的时间选择说明，这是对定居者的一种补偿，也是对巴勒斯坦人的惩罚。
The land, which is near the small Jewish settlement of Gvaot in the Etzion bloc south of Jerusalem, has now officially been declared “state land,” as opposed to land privately owned by Palestinians, clearing the way for the potential approval of Israeli building plans there.
这片土地位于耶路撒冷以南埃齐翁(Etzion)定居区的小型犹太人定居点格瓦奥特(Gvaot)附近。以色列已经正式宣称它属于“国有土地”，而非由巴勒斯坦人私人拥有。此举为批准以色列可能在该地区实行的建设方案扫清了道路。
But the mayor of the nearby Palestinian town of Surif, Ahmad Lafi, said the land belonged to Palestinian families. He told the official Palestinian news agency Wafa that Israeli Army forces and personnel posted orders early Sunday announcing the seizure of land that was planted with olive and forest trees in Surif and the nearby villages of Al-Jaba’a and Wadi Fukin.
附近的巴勒斯坦小镇苏里弗(Surif)的镇长艾哈迈德·拉菲(Ahmad Lafi)称，这片土地属于巴勒斯坦家庭。他对巴勒斯坦官方通讯社“瓦法”(Wafa)表示，以色列陆军人员于周日早些时候张贴命令，宣布占用苏里弗镇及附近村庄贾巴(Al-Jaba’a)和瓦迪富金(Wadi Fukin)那片栽种着橄榄树和林木的土地。
Interested parties have 45 days in which to register objections.
利益相关方有45天的时间提出异议。
The kidnapping of the teenagers prompted an Israeli military clampdown in the West Bank against Hamas, the Islamic group that dominates Gaza and that Israel said was behind the abductions. The subsequent tensions along the Israel-Gaza border erupted into a 50-day war that ended last week with an Egyptian-brokered cease-fire.
三名青少年遭绑架一事，促使以色列军队在约旦河西岸开展了打压哈马斯(Hamas)的行动。这个伊斯兰主义组织控制着加沙地带，以色列称哈马斯是绑架案背后的主谋。以色列与加沙地带边境接下来出现紧张局势，进而爆发了长达50天的战争。双方上周同意埃及斡旋达成的停火协议，结束了战斗。
The land appropriation has quickly turned attention back to the Israeli-occupied West Bank and exposed the contradictory visions in the Israeli government that hamper the prospects of any broader Israeli-Palestinian peace process.
以色列占用土地一事，让人们的关注焦点迅速回到了以色列占领的西岸土地，并暴露出了以色列政府内部相互矛盾的愿景，而这种状况会破坏巴以两国更广泛和平进程的前景。
Nabil Abu Rudeineh, a spokesman for President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority, condemned the announcement and called for a reversal of the land claim, saying that it would “further deteriorate the situation.”
巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)的发言人纳比尔·阿布·鲁代纳(Nabil Abu Rudeineh)谴责了以色列的表态，并呼吁撤销占用土地的决定，称这种做法会“令局势进一步恶化”。
Though Israel says that it intends to keep the Etzion settlement bloc under any permanent agreement with the Palestinians and that most recent peace plans have involved land swaps, most countries consider Israeli settlements to be a violation of international law. The continued construction has also been a constant source of tension between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as Israel and its most important Western allies.
以色列表示，无论与巴勒斯坦达成怎样的永久协议，都打算保留埃齐翁定居区，最近的多数和平方案都涉及土地交换。多数国家认为，以色列的定居点违反国际法。持续的建设活动也总是造成以色列和巴勒斯坦，乃至与大部分重要西方盟友之间关系的紧张。
A State Department official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the United States urged Israel to reverse its decision, calling it “counterproductive to Israel’s stated goal of a negotiated two-state solution with the Palestinians.”
美国国务院一名官员在要求不具名的前提下表示，美国敦促以色列撤销其决定，称此举“与以色列所称的通过谈判，与巴勒斯坦达成两国解决方案的目标相违背”。
The last round of American-brokered peace talks broke down in April. Israel suspended the troubled talks after Mr. Abbas forged a reconciliation pact with the Palestinian Authority’s rival, Hamas, which rejects Israel’s right to exist. American officials also said that Israel’s repeated announcements of new settlement construction contributed to the collapse of the talks.
上一轮由美国促成的和平谈判于今年4月破裂。在阿巴斯与哈马斯达成和解协定之后，以色列中止了困难重重的谈判。哈马斯是巴勒斯坦民族权利机构的政治对手，它否认以色列作为一个国家存在的权利。美国官员还表示，以色列不断宣布建立新定居点的计划，导致了谈判的瓦解。
Yair Lapid, Israel’s finance minister, who has spoken out in favor of a new diplomatic process, told reporters on Sunday that he “was not aware of the decision” about the land around Gvaot and had instructed his team to look into it. “We are against any swift changes in the West Bank right now because we need to go back to some kind of process there,” he said.
以色列财政部长亚伊尔·拉皮德(Yair Lapid)曾公开发表言论，支持开启新的外交进程。他周日告诉记者，自己对有关格瓦奥特周围土地的决定“并不知情”，已责成其团队对此事展开调查。“我们反对目前在西岸推动任何突如其来的变化，因为我们需要就该问题回到某种进程中来，”他说。