JERUSALEM — Israel faced new political and economic pressures on Wednesday to negotiate a halt to the 16-day-old Gaza war, with its rising toll of death and destruction, as cease-fire talks ground forward and the Israeli tourism industry was upended as major foreign airlines extended their suspension of flights over fears of Palestinian rocket fire.
耶路撒冷——周三，以色列遇到了新的政治和经济压力，被要求通过谈判终结已经持续了16天的加沙战争。目前，这场战争正在造成越来越惨重的伤亡和破坏。与此同时，关于停火协议的对话正在艰难进行，主要外国航空公司则因为担心巴勒斯坦的火箭弹而延长了飞机停飞的期限，使以色列旅游业遭到重创。
Secretary of State John Kerry, whose efforts to broker an Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement collapsed this year, conducted a whirlwind tour of diplomacy, holding intensive talks with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel after having met in the occupied West Bank with the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas. But for the moment, the prospects for a cease-fire seemed remote.
今年，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)促成巴以达成和平协议的努力以失败告终。近来，他又迅速开展了一系列外交行动，先是在被占领的约旦河西岸(West Bank)与巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)会面，又与以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)进行了紧张的对话。但是目前达成停火的前景还很渺茫。
“We will continue to push for this cease-fire,” Mr. Kerry said in Ramallah, where Mr. Abbas is based. “We have in the last 24 hours made some progress in moving toward that goal.” But several hours later Mr. Kerry shook hands with a grim-faced Mr. Netanyahu at the headquarters of the Israel Defense Forces in Tel Aviv.
“我们将继续推动双方停火，”克里在阿巴斯所处的拉姆安拉表示。“过去24小时，我们朝那个目标取得了一些进展。”但是数小时后，克里在位于特拉维夫的以色列国防军(Israel Defense Forces)总部与内塔尼亚胡握手时，后者表情严肃。
Neither of them took questions before or after a two-hour meeting. Mr. Kerry then flew back to Cairo, where he had spent part of Tuesday in discussions with President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, whose cease-fire proposal had provided the framework for discussions on how to arrange one.
在长达两小时的会晤后，两人都未接受提问。随后，克里飞回开罗，并于周二与埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)展开对话。塞西的停火提议为如何安排停火提供了框架。
While Mr. Kerry has emphasized that his immediate goal is to obtain a cease-fire, he also has said that he hopes to lay the ground for a “sustainable process going forward” following an end to the fighting. That seemed to be a way to assure the Palestinians in Gaza that the United States was prepared to address some of their long-term economic and political grievances and to acknowledge Mr. Netanyahu’s argument that a way needs to be found to demilitarize Gaza.
虽然克里强调他的首要目标是达成停火协议，但他也表示希望能为战争结束后，“面向未来的可持续流程”打下基础。这似乎一方面是在安抚加沙地带的巴勒斯坦人，告诉他们美国准备应对他们在经济和政治上一些长期的不满；另一方面也是在承认内塔尼亚胡的观点——需要找到一种办法，来实现加沙的去军事化。
But Mr. Kerry’s decision to relegate such issues to a subsequent phase of the negotiations — after a cease-fire is established — also appeared to be an implicit recognition of the difficulties.
但是，克里决定把这些事项推到之后的谈判环节——在实现停火之后，这似乎含蓄地表明，他也承认其中的困难。
The intensified diplomacy came as Israel reported three more Israeli soldiers were killed, all by explosive devices, in Gaza on Wednesday, bringing the total to 32; a foreign laborer was also felled by a rocket that hit farmland near the city of Ashkelon in the afternoon, the third civilian casualty on the Israeli side.
在密集的外交斡旋进行之时，以色列报告，周三又有三名士兵在加沙被爆炸装置炸死，使死亡总数增加到了32人；当天下午，一名外国劳工也被射入亚实基伦(Ashkelon)附近农田的一枚火箭弹击中，这是以色列方面的第三例平民伤亡。
The Gaza-based Health Ministry put the Palestinian death toll at 695 and 4,520 wounded. The deaths included 166 children, 67 women, and 37 older men.
设在加沙的卫生部称，巴勒斯坦已有695人死亡，4520人受伤。死者包括166名儿童、67名女性和37名年长男子。
Witnesses and health officials said the deaths on Wednesday, which totaled at least 71, came from Israeli airstrikes, artillery fire and at least one drone attack on a car in northern Gaza that killed three people.
目击者和卫生官员称，周三至少有71人死亡，造成死亡的原因是以色列的空袭、炮击，以及针对加沙北部一辆汽车的至少一次无人机袭击。共有三人在此次无人机袭击中遇难。
The Israeli military, in a statement summarizing its version of the day’s fighting, said approximately 98 rockets had been fired at Israel from Gaza, of which 70 hit Israeli territory and 25 were intercepted by the Iron Dome defense system. The statement said Israeli forces had targeted more than 100 sites including concealed rocket launchers, tunnels and what it described as “terror activity posts” within the premises of Al-Wafa hospital. The statement also said 150 Palestinians had been detained. Despite Israeli government assertions that its airports were safe, even though a rocket from Gaza had exploded near Tel Aviv’s Ben-Gurion Airport, the country’s main gateway, earlier in the week, the unexpected decree on Tuesday by the Federal Aviation Administration in Washington temporarily banning United States carriers from flying to or from Israel had a profound ripple effect. The F.A.A. extended the decree on Wednesday. Most major European carriers also suspended flights.
以色列军方发布声明，以自己的口径总结了当天战事。声明中称，共有大约98枚火箭弹从加沙射入以色列，其中70枚射中以色列领土，25枚被“铁穹”(Iron Dome)防御系统拦截。声明称，以色列部队已经把100多处地点列为目标，其中包括隐藏的火箭发射器、地道，以及它所谓的瓦法(Al-Wafa)医院内的“恐怖活动地点”等。声明还称，有150名巴勒斯坦人被拘捕。本周早些时候，加沙地带发射的一枚火箭弹在特拉维夫的本-古里安国际机场(Ben-Gurion Airport)附近爆炸，该机场是进出以色列的主要通道。尽管以色列政府坚称机场非常安全，但是华盛顿的联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）周二出乎意料地发布命令，要求美国航空公司暂时停飞以色列航班。周三，FAA延长了禁令期限。大多数欧洲航空公司也暂停了航班。
While Israel’s national carrier, El Al, added larger planes and more flights to its schedule on Wednesday to accommodate passengers stranded by cancellations, El Al already was bracing for tens of millions of dollars in losses from an enormous drop in tourist traffic this summer. 
周二，以色列的国家航空公司以色列航空(El Al)增加了大型飞机和航班的数量，以便为因航班取消而滞留的乘客提供便利。今年夏季，游客人数骤减已经给以色列航空公司造成了数千万美元的损失。
With thousands of Israelis waiting to leave on vacation or stranded abroad because of canceled flights, the price of El Al tickets soared: A ticket to New York available for $1,450 on Tuesday was $2,220 on Wednesday, according to Issta Lines, a travel company.
据旅游公司Issta Lines透露，由于数以千计的以色列人因为航班取消而无法出国度假或滞留国外，该航空公司的票价飙升。周二，以色列至纽约的票价为1450美元（约合8988元人民币），票价在周三涨至2220美元。
Israeli news reports indicated that only seven foreign carriers continued their flights Wednesday.
以色列新闻报道指出，周三只有七家外国航空公司的航班继续飞行。
The fighting has exerted no significant impact yet on Israel’s vibrant stock market, and its currency, the shekel, has been stable throughout the latest upsurge in the conflict. But the Israelis have begun to feel economic pain in other ways. With Israel’s mobilization of 59,000 reservists for possible duty in Gaza, many businesses are missing employees and many shops in the southern area near Gaza have been closed. Adding further pressure on the combatants to halt the fighting, the United Nations’ top human rights official, Navi Pillay, said Wednesday that there was a “strong possibility” that both Israel and Hamas had committed war crimes with indiscriminate attacks on civilians. The council, meeting in Geneva, voted to conduct an inquiry.
战争还没有对以色列活跃的股票市场产生影响，以色列货币谢克尔的汇率在最近的冲突加剧期间保持稳定。但以色列人已经在其他方面感受到了经济阵痛。由于以色列动员了5.9万名预备役人员，以备在加沙地带执行任务，很多公司都出现了员工消失的情况，靠近加沙地带南部的很多商店都已关门。周三，联合国人权事务主管纳瓦·皮莱(Navi Pillay)表示，以色列和哈马斯双方“极有可能”都犯下了战争罪行，对平民进行了无差别的攻击，皮莱对作战人员进一步施压，要求他们停止战斗。安理会在日内瓦举行会议，投票决定开展调查。