TOKYO — Hiroshi Yamauchi, who transformed his great-grandfather’s playing-card company, Nintendo, into a global video game powerhouse, died on Thursday in Kyoto, Japan. He was 85.
东京——周四，把其外曾祖父的牌类公司任天堂(Nintendo)改造成世界最大电子游戏公司之一的山内溥(Hiroshi Yamauchi)在日本京都逝世，享年85岁。
The cause was complications of pneumonia, the company said.
公司表示，山内溥死于肺炎并发症。
Mr. Yamauchi, who led Nintendo from 1949 to 2002, was Japan’s most unlikely high-tech success story. Named president of the family business at 22, he steered Nintendo into board games, light-emitting toy guns and baseball pitching machines — fruitless forays that he later attributed to a “lack of imagination” — before the company arrived at arcade games.
山内溥于1949年到2002年间领导任天堂，是日本高科技行业最令人意外的成功传奇。他22岁的时候接任家族企业的社长，带领任天堂在棋盘游戏、发光玩具枪及棒球喂球机等领域探索，最终找到了电子游戏。他后来表示，之前那些尝试之所以无果而终，是因为“缺乏想象力”。
Its Donkey Kong and the original Mario Bros. became hits and gave rise to Nintendo’s wildly successful home video game business.
《大金刚》(Donkey Kong)和第一代的《马里奥兄弟》(Mario Bros.)风靡一时，使任天堂在家用电子游戏领域大获成功。
The Nintendo Entertainment System, a console first released in Japan in 1983 as “Famicom,” unseated early leaders in the video game industry, selling more than 60 million units thanks to shrewd marketing, close attention to product quality and a crop of games based on unlikely yet endearing characters that soon became household names.
1983年，俗称“红白机”(Famicom)的任天堂娱乐系统(Nintendo Entertainment System)首先在日本推出，将电子游戏业的早期领头企业拉下了马。依靠高超的营销手法、对品质的密切关注，以及一大批游戏，它卖出了逾6000万台。这批游戏的角色设定很离奇，但它们很快家喻户晓，经久不衰。
In 1988, The New York Times wrote: “Many Nintendo best sellers, like Super Mario Bros. 2, are based on wildly preposterous premises, this particular one being two mustachioed Italian janitors who endure various trials, such as dodging hammer-swinging turtles and lava balls and man-eating plants, in order to save a Mushroom Princess. No matter. Kids can’t get enough of the games.”
1988年，《纽约时报》曾经报道：“任天堂的许多畅销产品，比如《超级马里奥兄弟2》(Super Mario Bros. 2)，游戏设定都极其荒诞。具体到这款游戏，则是两名留着胡子的意大利水管工历经艰难险阻拯救蘑菇国的公主。比方说，他们要躲避挥舞着大锤的乌龟、火球和吃人的植物。但这些都没关系。孩子们玩起来就没够。”
Under Mr. Yamauchi, who professed not to understand video games, Nintendo went on to dominate the business. When a successor machine was released in 1990, fans camped outside electronics stores for days in anticipation; it sold almost 50 million units. Next came the Nintendo 64 and Nintendo Game Cube home consoles, as well as Game Boy hand-held machines. Nintendo dominates the list of all-time top-selling games.
山内溥自称不懂电子游戏，但在他的带领下，任天堂成为行业霸主。1990年，后续机型上市，游戏迷满怀期待地在电子商店门外露营数日。它最终卖出了近5000万台。公司后来又推出了任天堂64(Nintendo 64)、任天堂GC(Nintendo Game Cube)家用游戏机，以及Game Boy手持游戏机。任天堂还横扫了最畅销游戏历史排行榜。
In the early 1990s, Mr. Yamauchi found himself in the middle of an international dispute when he offered to buy a majority stake in the Seattle Mariners. The team, established in 1977, had been threatening to leave Seattle if it could not find a new owner willing to keep it there. Nintendo had its United States headquarters in Seattle.
上世纪90年代初，山内溥提出收购美国职棒大联盟（Major League Baseball，简称MLB）的西雅图水手队(Seattle Mariners)的多数股份，结果却陷入了国际纷争。成立于1977年的水手队此前发出威胁，如果找不到愿意将其留在西雅图的新东家，就会搬离。任天堂的美国总部恰好在西雅图。
The team’s owners approved the deal but the commissioner of Major League Baseball, Fay Vincent, and a four-man M.L.B. owners’ committee initially opposed it. They relented and approved the sale in 1992 after Mariners fans and the Seattle news media rallied in favor of it. In 2001, the Mariners signed the star Japanese outfielder Ichiro Suzuki, now with the Yankees, helping to open the door for many more Japanese players to join major league teams in the United States.
股东们批准了协议，但MLB主席费伊·文森特(Fay Vincent)及由四人组成的MLB股东委员会起初表示反对。1992年，在水手队球迷和西雅图媒体的齐声支持下，反对者做出让步，批准了协议。2001年，水手队签下了日本的明星外野手铃木一朗(Ichiro Suzuki)，帮助打开了众多日本球员加入MLB队伍的大门。铃木一朗目前效力于纽约洋基队(Yankees)。
In a show of his characteristic detachment, however, Mr. Yamauchi confessed at the time that he was not much interested in baseball, either. He said he had never gone to a baseball game and is thought to have never gone since. One of his few hobbies was the Japanese board game Go, which he played at the master’s level.
不过，山内溥当时承认，自己对棒球也没什么兴趣，这也成为他特有的超然态度的一种表现。他说他以前从没去过现场看棒球赛，据说后来也没去过。他的爱好不多，其中一项是日本流行的围棋，水平颇高。
Hiroshi Yamauchi was born in Kyoto on Nov. 7, 1927. He was raised by his grandparents after his father, Shikanojo Yamauchi, deserted the family.
山内溥1927年11月7日出生于京都，年少时父亲山内鹿之丞(Shikanojo Yamauchi)离家出走，他是由外祖父母抚养成人的。
The Yamauchis had been makers of hanafuda cards, a Japanese playing-card game based on flowers, since 1889. Once favored by the elite, it became popular as a gambling game, often played by Japanese gangsters.
自1889年起，山内家一直出品名为“花札”(Hanafuda)的日本花牌。花札一度是权贵的喜好，后来成为流行的赌博方式，受到日本黑社会的青睐。
Mr. Yamauchi joined the family business in 1949 after his grandfather had a stroke. He moved quickly to take control at the company, forcing out a cousin and later purging officers appointed by his grandfather.
外祖父中风后，山内溥于1949年入主家族企业。他很快掌握了企业控制权，挤走了一个表亲，后来又将外祖父任命的高层扫地出门。
But the playing-card business was in terminal decline, and Mr. Yamauchi shifted the company’s focus to one toy after another until he found success with video games in the 1980s. He was helped by the renowned video game designer Shigeru Miyamoto, who joined the company in 1977 and created Mario, Donkey Kong, The Legend of Zelda, Wii and other products.
然而，牌类生意已是夕阳产业，山内溥带领公司一次又一次地转型，最终于上世纪80年代在电子游戏上取得了成功。他的得力助手是著名游戏设计师宫本茂(Shigeru Miyamoto)。1977年进入公司的宫本茂一手打造了《马里奥兄弟》、《大金刚》、《塞尔达传说》(The Legend of Zelda)和Wii等产品。
Mr. Yamauchi developed a strategy that set him apart from other consumer electronics manufacturers in Japan. From early on, he farmed out the production of Nintendo’s video game machines to smaller suppliers, allowing the company to maintain a relatively small staff and low overhead costs. Nintendo approved only a handful of games each year, whether designed internally or by outside companies, ensuring that prices and profit margins remained high.
山内溥的策略让他在日本消费电子产品制造商中卓尔不群。他早早就将任天堂的游戏机生产外包给小型供应商，使得公司保持在了员工人数较少、人力成本较低的水平。内部和外部设计的游戏加起来，任天堂每年只推出五六款游戏，保证了售价及利润一直处在高位。
There were some misfires under Mr. Yamauchi’s watch. The company’s cumbersome, headache-inducing Virtual Boy portable console — a red box on legs with rubber visors that players peered into to play games in 3-D — was a flop. And beginning in the late 1990s, first Sony, then Microsoft steamrolled into the gaming market with new consoles — the PlayStation and Xbox, respectively — challenging Nintendo’s dominance.
不过，在山内溥治下，任天堂也有几次失误，比如让人头疼的笨重便携机Virtual Boy就以惨败告终。那是一个带支架的红色盒子，配有橡胶眼罩，玩家则需戴上眼罩来玩立体游戏。到了上世纪90年代末，索尼(Sony)和微软(Microsoft)一前一后，分别挟PlayStation和Xbox大举进军游戏市场，挑战任天堂的霸主地位。
Mr. Yamauchi stepped down in 2002 — “I have no energy left,” he told reporters — and is credited with going outside the family to appoint a successor to steer Nintendo through rocky times. Under Satoru Iwata, the current Nintendo president, the company roared back with its Nintendo DS hand-held machine and the Wii home game console, though Mr. Iwata, too, has stumbled with the most recent hardware releases and is increasingly under siege by smartphone games.
2002年，山内溥卸任。他对媒体说，“我的精力耗竭了。”由于任命了家族以外的继任人选来带领任天堂走出低谷，他受到了一片赞扬。在现任社长岩田聪(Satoru Iwata)治下，公司凭借任天堂DS(Nintendo DS)掌机和Wii家用机强势回归。不过，也是在他治下，公司近期推出的硬件表现不佳，还越来越多地受到智能手机游戏的围攻。
Mr. Yamauchi’s survivors include a son, Katsuhito.
山内溥的身后人中包括儿子山内克仁(Katsuhito Yamauchi)。
In one of his last interviews, with the magazine Nikkei Business in 2003, Mr. Yamauchi offered a longer view of the gaming market. At the time, Nintendo was being pummeled by Sony’s immensely popular PlayStation 2 console. But he scoffed at suggestions that the battle for supremacy in gaming was over.
山内溥生前接受的最后一批采访中包括2003年《日经产业》周刊(Nikkei Business)所做的访问，其中谈到了他对游戏市场的远景展望。任天堂彼时遭到了索尼的大热产品PlayStation 2的连番打击，但他对游戏市场霸主之战已经终结的说法予以驳斥。
“That’s absolutely wrong; the gaming wars, they will never end,” he said, adding: “That’s just not how this business works. Nobody knows what tomorrow will bring.”
“真是大错特错；游戏市场的战争永远不会终结，”他说。“这个行业绝不是那样运行的。没人知道明天会发生什么。”