Smoking an electronic cigarette and casually stooping to feed his cat, President Asif Ali Zardari cut a relaxed figure in a television interview broadcast on Sunday. Later, he strolled from the presidential palace while flanked by soldiers in gleaming uniforms, in a mark of honor for his last day at work.
抽着电子烟，漫不经心地弯下腰喂猫，巴基斯坦总统阿西夫·阿里·扎尔达里(Asif Ali Zardari)周日接受电视采访时展现了一种悠闲自在的形象。之后，扎尔达里在身穿光鲜制服的士兵的陪同下走出了总统府，以这种仪式纪念他任职的最后一天。
For the departing president, whose many critics had anticipated other endings, those seemingly banal images represented a quiet victory.
对于这位行将卸任的总统来说，这些看似乏味的景象代表着一种不事张扬的成功。许多批评者曾预计，扎尔达里会有别样的结局。
Over his five years in power, Mr. Zardari fended off threat after threat. Senior judges sought to unseat him through corruption prosecutions. Generals murmured to diplomats about the possibility of a coup. The Taliban vowed to kill him. And large portions of the Pakistani news media and public seemed to revel in ridiculing or condemning him.
在执政的五年时间里，扎尔达里抵挡住了接连不断的威胁。高级法官试图利用腐败诉讼迫使他下台，军事将领私下向外交官透露可能爆发政变，塔利班(Taliban)发誓要杀了他。很大一部分巴基斯坦新闻媒体及民众似乎都乐于嘲笑或谴责他。
He leaves with the Pakistani economy a shambles, and with the once-mighty political machine he still leads, the Pakistan People’s Party, in disarray after a crushing election defeat.
扎尔达里离任的时候，巴基斯坦经济搞得一团糟，他领导的巴基斯坦人民党(Pakistan Peoples Party)曾经是十分强大的政治机器，却因在选举中溃败而混乱不堪。
Yet for all that, Mr. Zardari, 58, has also confounded expectations. He bolstered Pakistan’s democracy by draining his own office of power. He became the country’s first elected president to complete his term of office. He shifted the tone of politics, eschewing bare-knuckles confrontation for a more accommodating approach.
尽管如此，58岁的扎尔达里还是超出了人们的预期。通过削弱总统的权力，他推进了巴基斯坦的民主。他成为该国首位通过选举产生并完成任期的总统。他改变了政治基调，避免了激烈的对抗，转而采用比较灵活的手法。
And, perhaps thanks to the instincts that were honed during his 11 years in prison before becoming president, he displayed political wiles that enabled him to outmaneuver the steeliest rivals, and simply survive.
成为总统之前，扎尔达里曾在监狱待了11年。或许这段经历磨砺了他的性情，他展现出的政治手腕让他击败了最强硬的对手，坚持到了最后。
“Love him or hate him, one can never underestimate President Zardari,” wrote Kamal Siddiqi, editor of the daily newspaper The Express Tribune.
巴基斯坦日报《论坛快报》(The Express Tribune)的主编卡麦勒·西迪基(Kamal Siddiqi)说， “无论是爱他还是恨他，大家永远不能低估扎尔达里总统。” 
Mr. Zardari’s departure from office comes at the midpoint of a broader changing of the guard this year in the top echelons of Pakistan’s turbulent power structures. In June, his longtime political rival, Nawaz Sharif, became prime minister after a sweeping election victory. In November, the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, is due to step down; weeks later, the formidable chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, is to be replaced.
今年，巴基斯坦动荡的权力集团高层将出现广泛的人事变动。扎尔达里卸任总统时，这种变动正进行到一半。他的政治宿敌纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)在6月的选举中获得压倒性胜利，成为巴基斯坦总理。陆军参谋长阿什法克·帕尔韦兹·卡亚尼上将(Ashfaq Parvez Kayani)定于11月离任。而几周之后，权势强大的首席大法官伊夫蒂哈尔·穆罕默德·乔杜里(Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry)也将被取代。
“This is an era of great change,” said Adil Najam, a professor of international relations at Boston University. “Zardari’s achievement is to walk away from high power with a smile on his face — not going out in a coffin, or in handcuffs, or in disgrace.”
“这个是个大变革的时代，”波士顿大学(Boston University)国际关系学教授阿迪勒·纳吉姆(Adil Najam)说。“扎尔达里的成功之处就是面带笑容地从高位卸任，而不是躺在棺材中，或者带着手铐，抑或被罢黜。
For long, though, he struggled to achieve political legitimacy.
不过长期以来，扎尔达里一直苦苦挣扎于获得政治合法性。
Catapulted into office in 2008 by the assassination of his wife, Benazir Bhutto, Mr. Zardari arrived already burdened by a reputation for graft. Not only did the military dislike him, but he was also viewed with suspicion by many supporters of his own party as the accidental inheritor of a storied political dynasty.
2008年，妻子贝娜齐尔·布托(Benazir Bhutto)遇刺身亡，促使扎尔达里匆忙上台。当时，他已背负着贪污的名声。不仅军方讨厌他，他所在政党的很多支持者也心存疑虑，在他们眼中，他不过是偶然接手了一个著名的政治王朝。
Some Pakistanis still believe that Mr. Zardari engineered his own wife’s death as part of a macabre power grab.
一些巴基斯坦人仍然认为，为了攫取权力，扎尔达里做出了策划妻子死亡的可怕行径。
Yet Mr. Zardari often turned the other cheek, keeping up a Cheshire cat grin while he pursued a calculated and patient approach as his opponents overstepped themselves.
但扎尔达里通常会选择容忍。当对手越权时，他采取深思熟虑的忍耐手法，咧嘴微笑。
In 2012, he slogged through a protracted court battle with Justice Chaudhry, who pushed to reopen a corruption case against Mr. Zardari that dated to the 1990s. Mr. Zardari and his lawyers fought back adroitly, eventually sidestepping the charges. But in the process, he had to sacrifice his chosen prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, who was forced to resign by court order in June 2012.
2012年，扎尔达里在与大法官乔杜里旷日持久的官司中艰难获胜。乔杜里大力推动20世纪90年代针对扎尔达里的贪污案重申。扎尔达里及其律师巧妙周旋，最终避免了这些指控。但在这一过程当中，他不得不牺牲亲手任命的总理优素福·拉扎·吉拉尼(Yousaf Raza Gilani)。2012年6月，法庭发布指令，迫使吉拉尼辞职。
Often as not, brinkmanship and back-room deals were Mr. Zardari’s style. Yet along the way, he also introduced key constitutional changes that anchored the country’s fragile democratic foundations. He surrendered the main power of his own office — the ability to dismiss Parliament — and turned it into a ceremonial position.
扎尔达里往往求助于边缘政策和幕后交易，这是他的风格。但与此同时，他也让宪法进行了关键修改，巩固了该国脆弱的民主基础。他放弃了总统的主要权力——解散议会——并使总统成为一个象征性职位。
That he got so far could be seen as a minor miracle. During a political crisis in 2009, General Kayani discussed the possibility of a military takeover, according to American diplomatic cables later published by WikiLeaks. Around the same time, Mr. Zardari told Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. he worried that General Kayani and the Inter-Services Intelligence directorate were plotting to “take me out,” according to another leaked cable.
他能走到现在，可以说是一个小小的奇迹。根据维基解密(WikiLeaks)事后公布的美国外交电报，在2009年的政治危机期间，卡亚尼上将提到了进行军事接管的可能性。根据另一份泄密电报的说法，大约在同一时间，扎尔达里告诉美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)，他担心卡亚尼和巴基斯坦三军情报局(Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate)正密谋“除掉我”。
But the drama later fizzled, suggesting new limits to military meddling in politics.
不过，这场危机后来不了了之，表明军方对政治的干预存在新的局限。
If his constant maneuvering succeeded in yielding Mr. Zardari political and judicial victories, however, it failed to address some of Pakistan’s most profound troubles.
如果说，频繁的政治谋划成功地为扎尔达里赢得了政治和法律上的胜利，但是它却未能回应巴基斯坦一些最深层的问题。
The economy has nose-dived and foreign exchange reserves have shrunk in recent years, leading the International Monetary Fund to approve a $6.6 billion emergency loan on Wednesday  — on top of $5 billion that Pakistan already owes the international body.
近年来，巴基斯坦经济急转直下，外汇储备大幅缩水。国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)不得不于上周三批准为其发放66亿美元（约合403亿元人民币）的紧急贷款。此前，巴基斯坦已向该国际组织借了50亿美元。
Further harming the economy, systemic power shortages reached crisis proportions this summer, with even major cities experiencing long hours of electricity rationing. Only 1 percent of Pakistanis pay income tax.
今年夏天，系统性电力短缺达到了足以引发危机的程度，甚至连大城市都经历了长时间的电力配给，给经济造成了进一步损害。只有1%的巴基斯坦人在缴纳个人所得税。
Mr. Zardari habitually chose ministers on the basis of loyalty rather than ability. And although he frequently railed against the menace posed by Islamist militants, his government failed to stem the tide of Taliban violence.
扎尔达里总是根据忠诚度而非能力来选任部长。此外，虽然他经常对伊斯兰主义激进分子的威胁表示谴责，但他的政府却未能遏制塔利班一轮又一轮的暴行。
Indeed, his party kowtowed to the religious right, particularly in the poisonous debate over Pakistan’s blasphemy laws. And attempts to broker peace in western Baluchistan Province, where a bitter nationalist insurgency has been raging, failed badly.
的确，他的党派对虔信宗教的右翼卑躬屈膝，尤其是在巴基斯坦亵渎神灵法的恶性争论方面。他曾试图让民族主义暴乱频发的西部省份俾路支重归和平，却以惨败告终。
In recent months, however, as it became clear he would see out the end of his term, some of the public venom toward Mr. Zardari appeared to have dissipated.
然而，最近几个月，随着扎尔达里即将平稳结束任期的形势日渐明朗，公众对他的恶意似乎也有所平息。
“There is a sense that political normalcy is starting to set in,” said Professor Najam, while cautioning that it was too early to say if civilian supremacy would last. “We’ve been here before, in the 1990s,” he said. “And then things bounce back.”
“人们感到，政治正开始恢复常态，”纳吉姆说。他还提醒，现在判断公民权利至上是否能持续还为时过早。“我们以前也经历过这种状态，比如上世纪90年代。”他说。“然后情况就开始倒退。”