Pei-Shen Qian, the Queens artist who federal prosecutors say created dozens of fake paintings that were later sold as Modernist masterpieces, said that he had no idea his works were being marketed as the real thing, according to a report in Bloomberg Businessweek on Thursday.
《彭博商业周刊》(Bloomberg Businessweek)周四报道说，纽约皇后区画家钱培琛(Pei-Shen Qian)说，他对自己的作品被当做真迹来销售一事毫不知情。此前，联邦检察官称，钱培琛伪造了数十幅现代主义大师的画作，而且这些画作已被当做真迹售出。
The case is “a very big misunderstanding,” the artist said in an interview from Shanghai.
这位画家在上海接受采访时说，这是“一个极大的误会”。
Earlier this year, federal authorities said that forged Abstract Expressionist paintings that had been sold by a Long Island art dealer, Glafira Rosales, through the now-shuttered Knoedler & Company gallery and another New York dealer, Julian Weissman, were actually made at the artist’s garage and home in Woodhaven, Queens.
今年早些时候，联邦有关部门称，长岛的画商格拉菲拉·罗萨莱斯(Glafira Rosales)通过诺德勒画廊(Knoedler & Company)和另一名纽约画商朱利安·韦斯曼(Julian Weissman)售出的一些抽象表现主义画作，实际上是钱培琛在自己位于皇后区伍德黑文的车库和家中制作的。诺德勒画廊目前已经关门。
Mr. Qian was said to have been paid just a few thousand dollars for works that ultimately sold for much, much more, in some cases millions of dollars, according to court papers filed in connection with a criminal case brought against Ms. Rosales.
据说钱培琛只得到了几千美元的报酬，但这些画最终卖出的价钱则高得多，针对罗萨莱斯的一桩刑事诉讼的法庭文件显示，其中一些画作甚至卖出了数百万美元的高价。
She was arrested in May but by that point Mr. Qian had returned to his homeland in China. Ms. Rosales has since pleaded guilty to fraud charges and is cooperating with authorities.
罗萨莱斯于今年5月被逮捕，当时钱培琛已经回到了中国的老家。罗萨莱斯后来承认了欺诈指控，目前正在配合有关部门的调查。
Her former boyfriend and partner, Jose Carlos Bergantiños Diaz, has been named in several civil suits brought by people who bought the fakes, but he has not been criminally charged, nor has Mr. Qian. The galleries have said they believed that the paintings were authentic.
这些赝品的购买者提起的几桩民事诉讼中，还提到了罗萨莱斯的前男友和合作伙伴何塞·卡洛斯·伯甘迪奥斯·迪亚兹(Jose Carlos Bergantiños Diaz)，不过他和钱培琛都没有受到刑事指控。出售这些赝品的画廊表示，他们以为这些画是真的。
Mr. Qian, 73, said it was Mr. Bergantiños Diaz who had enlisted him more than a decade ago to make paintings that mimicked the style of famous painters. He said in the interview that he was told his paintings were being sold to art lovers who could not afford the genuine article.
现年73岁的钱培琛说，10多年前，伯甘迪奥斯·迪亚兹委托他模仿著名画家的风格进行创作。他在接受采访时说，他被告知，自己的作品是用来卖给那些买不起真品的美术爱好者的。
“Nobody would take them seriously,” adding “It’s impossible to imitate them—from the papers to the paints to the composition. It’s impossible to do it exactly.”
“没人会把它们当成真的，”他补充说，“要想仿造画作是不可能的——从纸张、颜料到构图，不可能模仿得一模一样。”
Mr. Qian said he had not been in touch with the couple since 2008.
钱培琛说，他2008年以后就没与这两个人联系过。
He said he was shocked when he heard the reports of the forgery scandal. “The F.B.I. said they were done by the hands of a genius,” he told Bloomberg. “Well, that’s me. How strange it feels!”
钱培琛说，在听到有关赝品丑闻的报道时，他十分震惊。他告诉《彭博商业周刊》，“美国联邦调查局(FBI)说，这些画出自一个天才之手。好吧，那就是我。这种感觉太奇怪了！”