China’s high-speed rail network is a source of great national pride, with more than 60,000 miles of dedicated track, as of the end of 2013 — more than in any other country in the world.
中国的高铁网络是民族自豪感的一大来源：截至2013年底，中国高铁专用轨道的运营里程突破1万公里，居世界首位。
Now, commercial sponsors are being given the chance to share in the network’s prestige, as local railroad bureaus have begun to sell naming rights for its trains, part of the country’s continued push to commercialize its state-controlled railroad sector.
现在，商业赞助商有望从高铁的声望中分一杯羹。作为中国持续推动其国有铁路系统商业化的举措之一，地方铁路局开始向市场开放管内列车的冠名权。
The once uniformly named fleet of Hexie Hao (Harmony) bullet trains in China is now undergoing a commercial rechristening, according to the Oriental Morning Post, a Shanghai-based newspaper.
根据上海媒体《东方早报》的报道，曾被统一称为“和谐号动车组”的中国高铁上，如今出现了企业冠名。
Passengers traveling by rail from Fuzhou to Longyan in southern Fujian Province are likely to find themselves boarding the China Unicom Train, after one of the big telecom operators in China, while travelers journeying through Xiamen may find themselves aboard the Luziyao Train, named after a food retailer whose products include pickled fish and an orange gelatin dessert.
在南部的福建省乘火车从福州到龙岩的乘客或许会发现，他们坐的是“中国联通号动车组”，由一家大型电信运营商冠名。去厦门的乘客则可能发现，他们的列车叫做“绿滋肴号”，由一家食品零售商冠名，其产品包括咸鱼和葛粉。
Local governments have also leaped at the opportunity as a way to promote tourism with names such as the Hengshui Lake Train and the Grand Rivers and Mountains Zhangjiakou Train, according to the Oriental Morning Post.
地方政府也很快抓住这一机会来进行旅游宣传。《东方早报》称，已出现了“衡水湖号”列车和“大好河山张家口号”列车。
The move to commercialize comes more than a year after the once-powerful Ministry of Railways was dissolved and turned into the state-owned China Railway Corporation. One consequence of the shift, a person in the industry told the Oriental Morning Post, is that train operators are now responsible for their own profits and losses — thus the selling of naming rights.
此举出现的一年多之前，曾经财大势大的铁道部被拆分，其企业责任归于新组建的国企——中国铁路总公司。有铁路内部人士告诉《东方早报》，此项改革产生的一个后果是，负责运营业务的铁路总公司需要自负盈亏，因此才有出售冠名权之举。
And with one-year sponsorships of the trains going for up to 12 million renminbi, about $2 million, according to the newspaper, train operators stand to make a hefty sum.
《东方早报》称，一年的冠名价格可高达每列1200万元人民币。这样算来，铁路运营方可获得可观的收入。