“IT’S official,” Alfred A. Knopf Sr. tweeted last week. “We’re now #PenguinRandomHouse.”
“这次是正式的，”老阿尔弗雷德·A·克诺夫(Alfred A. Knopf Sr.)上周在推特上说。“我们现在是#企鹅兰登出版社。”
Mr. Knopf — or rather his ghostly avatar, the actual publisher having sold his namesake firm to Random House in 1960, died in 1984 and rolled over many times since — was celebrating the largest book-publishing merger in history.
说话的其实是克诺夫的灵魂化身，因为真正的克诺夫在1960年把他的同名出版社卖给了兰登出版社，于1984年去世，自那以后又“复活”过来很多回，并发表意见。这一次他是在庆贺史上最大规模的图书出版合并。
The merger, announced last October and completed on July 1 after regulatory approval, shrinks the Big Six, which publish about two-thirds of books in the United States, down to the Big Five. HarperCollins has reportedly been flirting with Simon & Schuster, which would take it down to four. (The others are Hachette and Macmillan.)
这次合并是去年10月宣布的，通过行政审批之后，于今年7月1日完成合并。出版美国2/3图书的6大出版社现在缩减为5大出版社。据报道，哈珀科林斯(HarperCollins)出版社正在试探与西蒙与舒斯特(Simon & Schuster)出版社合并。倘若它们也合并了，那就缩减为四大出版社（另外两家是桦榭[Hachette]出版社和麦克米伦[Macmillan]出版社）。
The creation of Penguin Random House (“the world’s first truly global trade book publishing company”) is partly a response to unprecedented pressures on these “legacy” publishers — especially from Amazon, which came out on the winning end of an antitrust lawsuit over the setting of e-book prices. It is also a way to gain leverage and capital in an industry that has been turned upside down. This endgame may be inevitable, but its consequences can’t be ignored.
企鹅兰登出版社（“世界上第一个真正的全球性图书出版公司”）合并的目的之一是应对“传统”出版社受到的前所未有的压力，特别是来自亚马逊的压力——在一场关于电子书定价的反垄断诉讼中，亚马逊获胜了。合并也是在如今这个天翻地覆的行业里获取影响力和资金的途径。这个结局也许是必然的，但是它造成的结果不容忽视。
Consolidation carries costs you won’t find on a price sticker. Dozens of formerly independent firms have been folded into this conglomerate: not just Anchor, Doubleday, Dutton, Knopf, Pantheon, G. P. Putnam’s Sons and Viking, which still wield significant resources, but also storied names like Jonathan Cape, Fawcett, Grosset & Dunlap, and Jeremy P. Tarcher. Many of these have been reduced to mere imprints, brands stamped on a book’s title page, though every good imprint bears the faint mark of a bygone firm with its own mission and sensibility.
合并的代价在表面上是看不到的。几十家以前独立的出版社被卷入了这场合并：不只是那些还掌握着重要的资源的出版社，比如Anchor出版社、双日(Doubleday)出版社、杜登(Dutton)出版社、克诺夫(Knopf)出版社、Pantheon出版社、G. P. Putnam’s Sons出版社和Viking出版社，还包括一些在历史上著名的出版社，比如Jonathan Cape出版社、Fawcett出版社、Grosset & Dunlap出版社和Jeremy P. Tarcher出版社。很多这样的出版社缩减成了子品牌，它们的品牌只出现在图书扉页上，虽然每个优秀的子品牌还带有以往公司的模糊印记，有着自己的使命和鉴赏力。
Decades of consolidation have cost writers and consumers alike. There is, for one, the persistent gripe of writers and agents: companies either forbid (as at Penguin) or restrict (at Random House) their constituent imprints from bidding against one another for a manuscript. That means not only lower advances, but also fewer options for writers to get the kind of painstaking attention — from editors, marketers and publicists — that it takes to turn their manuscripts into something valuable.
几十年的合并也让作者和消费者付出了代价。其中一点就是对作者和代理人的持续控制：大出版社禁止（比如企鹅）或限制（比如兰登）其子品牌为同一本书稿相互竞价。那意味着作者能得到的预付金更少了，还意味着他们在获取编辑、营销人员和宣传人员的关注方面的选择也更少了，而那对于把他们的书稿变成有价值的图书十分重要。
Among the imprints that survive, the tendency is to homogenize and focus on a few general fields like ambitious nonfiction, accessible literary fiction or thrillers. “Legacy” publishing does best in the first category: it commands the advances needed for research, the editing talent to shape the writing and the marketing muscle to distribute those doorstop biographies on Father’s Day.
生存下来的子品牌变得更雷同，都在关注几个大众化的领域，比如励志书、简单易懂的文学小说或者惊险小说。“传统”出版社很擅长做励志书：它拥有做调查所需要的资金、控制写作的编辑团队以及在父亲节发行大部头传记的市场营销团队。
In the more commercial genres — romance, horror, “Fifty Shades” — writers are beginning to find success in self-publishing. That’s a bit of a misnomer, because often it involves an agent who packages a book with any number of freelance editors and marketers, many of them refugees from the ever-shrinking houses. (Amazon’s publishing platform, which runs on more of a packaging model, has made inroads into these genres.)
而在爱情小说、恐怖小说和色情小说之类更商业化的领域，作者们开始通过自助出版取得成功。这么说也不太准确，因为虽说是自助出版，但是通常会有一个代理人，他会召集几个自由编辑和市场营销人员来包装一本书，其中很多人来自不断萎缩的出版社（亚马逊的出版平台主要靠的是包装，也开始进军这些领域）。
As for literary fiction, more and more of the interesting and strange variety — the labors of love on which famous editors like Robert Giroux, Maxwell Perkins and Barney Rosset once placed their bets — may migrate to smaller presses. Graywolf, Milkweed and McSweeney’s (none of them in New York) may not have the resources of their spiritual predecessors, but they have what new owners often lack: personality, mission and focus.
至于文学小说，更多有趣而奇特的小说可能会在小型出版社出版。这类小说曾是著名编辑们最有信心的体裁，比如罗伯特·吉鲁(Robert Giroux)、马克斯韦尔·珀金斯(Maxwell Perkins)和巴尼·罗塞特(Barney Rosset)。格雷沃夫(Graywolf)、米尔克韦德(Milkweed)和麦克斯威尼(McSweeney’s)这些出版社都不在纽约，它们可能没有那些精神前辈们的资源，但是它们拥有新主人通常缺乏的东西：个性、使命和专注。
So many books are published — almost certainly, more than ever — that predicting a blanket decline in quality would be ridiculous. But whether literary culture is best served by the ceaseless centralization of publishing is a question worth asking.
几乎可以肯定地说，现在出版的图书比以往任何时候都多，但如果因此预测图书质量会整体下滑可能有些荒谬。但是出版资源无止境的合并是否最利于文学文化是个值得探讨的问题。
The Big Five have been so busy reducing old companies to brands that they’ve neglected the notion of what a brand should mean. Can any reader tell a Pantheon from a Riverhead novel? The logo doesn’t do the trick. The value of a publishing house — and now an imprint — has been its function as that dreaded straw man of the self-publishing gurus: a gatekeeper. In the hoary Model T days, gatekeepers weren’t a cabal but a cacophony, competing tooth and nail.
五大出版社忙着把那些老公司缩减到只剩下品牌名，他们却忽略了一个问题：品牌应该意味着什么？有哪个读者能分辨出Pantheon和Riverhead出版的小说的不同？仅凭品牌名做不到这一点。出版社——现在是子品牌——的价值在于它具有稻草人的作用，能震慑那些自助出版专家：它是守门人。在久远的T型汽车时代，守门人们不是组成一个阴谋集团，而是拼命互相竞争。
Maybe it’s time for publishers to revive the value of their brands by making them more distinctive and connecting them more closely to consumers. They can start by checking out the Web site of the codgers at the prestigious Farrar, Straus & Giroux, independent until it was bought in 1994 by Holtzbrinck (which later bought Macmillan and grouped its American holdings under that name). Its e-newsletter features author interviews, long editors’ notes and subscriber giveaways. One of its developers, Ryan Chapman (now at Atavist, a multimedia storytelling site), told me his model was independent record labels.
也许现在出版社应该让自己更独特，与消费者联系更密切，以便重振自己的品牌价值。他们首先可以查看享有声望的Farrar, Straus & Giroux出版社的那些怪人们的网站，这家出版社一直保持独立，直到1994年被霍兹布林克[Holtzbrinck]出版社收购（霍兹布林克出版社后来买下了麦克米伦出版社，把它在美国的分属机构组成一个集团，以麦克米伦命名）。该网站的电子新闻邮件包括作者采访、长篇编辑手记和用户赠刊。网站的其中一个开发者赖安·查普曼（Ryan Chapman，他现在供职于多媒体讲故事网站Atavist）告诉我他的模版是独立唱片厂牌。
We could use more gatekeepers — the kind that trumpet their history and quality unapologetically. “A new imprint on a book gathers character through the years,” declared the first sentence of the first catalog printed by Farrar, Straus in 1946. But an old imprint, once merged, tends to lose it. Even Penguin and Random House aren’t immune. Their temporary new logo — a giant penguin looking away from a house — is an awkward amalgam, a glyphic non sequitur. It’s a necessary visual compromise, a show of mutual respect for two distinctive histories. But maybe Random Penguin, as a few wags have suggested, would have been a more apt name.
我们需要更多的守门人，他们应该毫不谦虚地宣扬自己的历史和品质。“印在书上的新子品牌的独特品质需要经过岁月积淀，”1946年Farrar, Straus出版社的第一本书目上的第一句话这样宣称。但是老品牌一旦合并，往往会失去其独特品质。甚至连企鹅和兰登出版社也不能幸免。他们的临时新商标是个有些尴尬的混合物，没有逻辑可言——一只巨大的企鹅把眼光从一座房子上移开。这是视觉上的必然妥协，显示对两家出版社各自独特历史的尊重。但是就像一些爱打趣的人暗示的那样，“随意的企鹅”（Random Penguin，“兰登，Random”亦有“随意”的含义——译注）这个名字也许更合适。