Receptionists cheerfully answered the phones with a new greeting: “Good morning, Penguin Random House.”
前台接待员接电话的时候愉快地采用新的问候语：“早上好，这里是企鹅兰登出版社。”
E-mails were sent to nervous employees assuring them that their health plans would not change.
紧张的员工们收到了邮件，内容是他们的健康保险不会发生变化。
And a new temporary logo — with a penguin in profile next to a tidy house — was released until a permanent one could be designed.
在永久商标设计好之前，还发布了一个新的临时商标——企鹅和一幢整洁的房子并排放置。
On Monday, the newly formed company of Penguin Random House began to take shape, only hours after a middle-of-the-night announcement that the long-planned merger had been completed.
周一（这里指7月1日——编注），企鹅兰登出版社成立了。几个小时之前，在半夜里，该出版社宣布这个计划已久的合并完成了。
Together, Penguin and Random House will make up the biggest and most dominant publisher in the business, one that has unmatched leverage against Amazon.com and the potential to inspire other mergers in the industry.
企鹅和兰登出版社将组成业界最大、最有影响力的出版社，对亚马逊公司具有无与伦比的抗衡作用，有可能引发业界的其他合并。
Markus Dohle, the chairman and chief executive of Random House, who will take on the role of chief executive of the new company, announced the completion of the merger in an e-mail to employees on Monday.
兰登出版社的主席、首席执行官马库斯·杜尔(Markus Dohle)将担任新公司的首席执行官，周一他通过电子邮件向员工宣布合并完成。
“Today, we are Penguin Random House,” he wrote. “You should be proud of what you’ve accomplished and what we are all now a part of: the first truly global trade book publishing company. Together, we are even better positioned to fulfill our core purpose: to bridge authors and readers by publishing the very best books.”
“现在我们是企鹅兰登出版社了，”他写道，“你应该为你取得的成就感到骄傲，为我们的新公司感到骄傲：它是第一个真正的全球性图书出版公司。我们合并在一起，将能更好地实现我们的核心目标：通过出版最好的图书把作者和读者联系起来。”
Bertelsmann, the owner of Random House, and Pearson, the owner of Penguin, disclosed the merger in October, saying that Bertelsmann would control 53 percent of the company and Pearson 47 percent. Since then, the merger has sailed through regulatory approvals in the United States and Europe, as well as China, Canada and other countries.
兰登书屋的所有者贝塔斯曼(Bertelsmann)和企鹅出版社的所有者皮尔森(Pearson)在去年10月公布了合并计划，称贝塔斯曼将控股53%，皮尔森将控股47%。从那以后，合并计划在美国、欧洲以及中国、加拿大和其他国家获得了监管部门的批准。
The combined companies will control more than 25 percent of the book business, with more than 10,000 employees, 250 independent publishing imprints and about $3.9 billion in annual revenues.
合并后的公司将拥有图书行业内超过25%的业务，超过1万名员工，250家独立出版公司以及约39亿美元的年收入。
Mr. Dohle, in a telephone interview from London, where he was about to embark on a three-week tour around the globe to meet with employees, said that part of his message is simple: there will not be much change at first.
杜尔先生将从伦敦出发，开始为期3周的旅行，前往世界各地的分公司与员工会面。他在伦敦接受电话采访时说，他要传递的其中一个信息很简单：刚开始不会有太大变化。
There are no immediate plans for laying off employees or closing imprints. Both Penguin and Random House have long leases on their buildings in Manhattan, so they will not work from the same building anytime soon — maybe not for at least a decade, Mr. Dohle said.
杜尔先生说，近期没有裁员或者关闭某些出版社的计划。企鹅和兰登出版社与各自所在的曼哈顿写字楼签的都是长期租约，所以他们短期内不会在同一幢写字楼里办公——也许至少有10年时间不会在一起办公。
“The continuity will far outweigh the change,” said Mr. Dohle, who has a reputation for deliberate moves. “We have the luxury to take the time before we make any strategic decisions. There is no need to rush.”
“延续将远大于改变，”杜尔先生说。他一向以从容谨慎闻名，“我们在做出战略性决定之前，有足够的时间慢慢考虑。没必要匆忙行事。”
One goal of the merger, he said, is to “crack the code of discoverability” — of how to put books in front of potential buyers — “in a world with fewer bookstores.”
他说，合并的其中一个目标是“解决可发现性的问题”，也就是怎样才能把图书放到潜在购买者面前，因为“现在书店的数量减少了”。
Several important leadership changes for the new company were announced Monday. David Shanks, the chief executive of the Penguin Group USA, has stepped down and will be a senior adviser to Mr. Dohle and the executive team. John Makinson, the head of Penguin Group since 2002, will be the chairman of Penguin Random House.
周一新公司宣布了几个重要的领导人事变动。美国企鹅出版集团的首席执行官大卫·尚克斯(David Shanks)将退位，任杜尔及其执行团队的高级顾问。自2002年就担任企鹅出版集团总裁的约翰·梅金森(John Makinson)将任企鹅兰登出版社的主席。
Executives sought to reassure anxious employees, authors and agents that there was nothing to worry about. In a letter to authors, Mr. Dohle said that the new company would invest in distribution and marketing, maximizing potential readers. The authors’ relationship with their editors and publishing teams, he said, “will remain untouched.”
执行官们在尽力消除员工、作者和经纪人们的疑虑，让他们什么都不用担心。杜尔在写给作者们的信中说，新公司将在发行和市场营销方面投入资金，以尽力扩大读者群。他说，作者与编辑和出版团队之间的关系“将不会受到影响”。
Executives at Penguin and Random House said the initial focus would be on unifying the infrastructure of the companies, including establishing pay scales, health benefits and new e-mail addresses.
企鹅和兰登出版社的执行官们说，最初的工作重点将是统一两家公司的基本机制，包括建立工资标准、健康福利和新的电子邮件地址。
But there will also be an effort to sort out redundancies, a process that typically involves a reduction in employee count. As physical book sales decrease, so does the need for gigantic warehouses to store and ship books; the newly combined company is likely to find ways to trim printing, distribution and storage costs.
但是他们也会找出冗余的机构，在这个过程中，一般会出现裁员。因为实体书的销量在下降，所以不再需要庞大的仓库来存储图书和发货。新合并的公司很可能会找到减少印刷、发行和存储成本的方法。
“There’s positives and negatives,” said Elyse Cheney, a literary agent. “The positive is that I hope they will be able to have greater leverage with companies like Amazon. But more importantly, that they figure out new and innovative ways to reach consumers, now that the marketplace is changing so rapidly.”
“有利也有弊，”作家经纪人艾丽丝·切尼(Elyse Cheney)说，“好处是我希望他们更能对抗像亚马逊这样的公司。但是更重要的是，他们能找到接触读者的新的、有创意的方法，因为现在市场变化得很快。”
Analysts said it was too early to predict the consumer impact of the merger. Mike Shatzkin, the founder and chief executive of Idea Logical, a consultant to publishers, speculated that Penguin Random House would eventually use its large list of books to create a digital subscription offer, much like a book-of-the-month club for e-books, or build minibookstores within retailers like clothing stores.
分析家们说现在预测合并对消费者的影响还为时过早。出版咨询公司Idea Logical的创始人、首席执行官麦克·谢智肯(Mike Shatzkin)猜测企鹅兰登出版社最终将利用手中大量的图书，提供数码订阅服务，就像每月一书俱乐部那样，只不过订阅的是电子书，或者和零售商合作设立迷你书店，就像服装店那样。
For authors, the suddenly larger presence of Penguin Random House will make it a more attractive prospect, Mr. Shatzkin said.
谢智肯说，突然之间出现的庞大的企鹅兰登出版社对作者来说更有吸引力。
“If you’re a Penguin author or a Random House author, you should be pretty happy today,” he said. “If you’re another publisher or an author with another publisher, you should be watching this with a wary eye.”
“如果你是和企鹅出版社或者兰登书屋合作的作者，你现在应该特别高兴，”他说，“如果你是别的出版社或者是与别的出版社合作的作者，你应该警惕这个情况。”
But authors and agents also quietly voiced concern that there would be fewer major publishing houses competing for their work.
但是作者和代理人也平静地表达了他们的顾虑：合并意味着争夺他们作品的大型出版社变少了。
Harlan Coben, the best-selling novelist who is published by Dutton, an imprint of Penguin, said that “the one thing that worries every writer is that there is going to be fewer houses and less competition.”
在企鹅集团旗下的杜登(Dutton)出版社出版作品的畅销小说家哈兰·科本(Harlan Coben)说，“所有作家都在担心一件事，那就是出版社更少了，竞争更少了。”
But, he added, “this business so constantly changes that whatever we’re talking about now will be nonsense a few years from now.”
但是他补充说，“这个行业在不断变化，不管我们现在讨论什么，几年之后就变得毫无意义了。”