The next time you hear about the sway that Ivanka Trump holds over her father and what a powerful advocate for equal opportunity she is, I want you to remember these numbers:
下次再听到有关伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)对她父亲的影响，以及她是一个多么有影响力的均等机会倡导者的言论时，我希望你记住下面这些数字：
Twenty. That’s how many men are in, or poised to join, the president’s cabinet.
二十。这是已经或即将加入特朗普总统内阁的男性人数。
Four. That’s how many women.
四。这是女性的人数。
Barack Obama’s first cabinet included seven. Bill Clinton’s, six. George W. Bush’s, four, same as Trump’s, but that was 16 years ago, and he didn’t have an adult daughter who styled herself as both an influential adviser and a feminist hero. Where precisely is the Ivanka Effect?
贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的第一届内阁有七名女性成员。比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的内阁六名。乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的内阁四名，和特朗普的一样，但那是十六年前，并且布什也没有一个已成年的女儿把自己塑造成既是一名颇有影响力的顾问，又是一个女权主义英雄的形象。伊万卡效应究竟在哪里？
She won’t be engaging this riddle in her new book, “Women Who Work,” due out in early May, and I say that not because I know what’s in it — I don’t — but because I know Ivanka, or at least I’ve been watching her closely for a while. She doesn’t take responsibility, not where dear old Dad is concerned. She takes advantage, all the while asking us to be grateful for her presence beside him.
她不会在自己将于5月初面世的新书《职场女性》(Women Who Work)中讨论这个谜团。我这么说不是因为我知道那本书的内容——我不知道——而是因为我了解伊万卡，或者说我至少密切观察过她一段时间。在涉及她亲爱的老爸的地方，她不会担起责任。她只会加以利用，并始终让我们为她父亲身边有她而心存感激。
When he behaves, word goes out that she or her husband, Jared Kushner, had his ear. When he doesn’t, word goes out that it wasn’t their fault, that they can do only so much and that if they hadn’t valiantly moved to Washington, well, think about how much worse off we’d all be.
当他表现得体时，便会传出他是听取了她或她丈夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)的意见的消息。当他表现不得体时，又会出现那不是他们的错、他们只能做这么多以及如果不是他们勇敢地搬去了华盛顿，想想情况会更加糟糕到什么程度的说法。
There’s a big problem with this spin: His behavior wouldn’t matter if he weren’t sitting on such a lofty throne, and they helped to put him there. They empowered the mad king.
这种宣传有一个大问题：如果不是坐在这么高的王位上，他的行为根本无关紧要，而正是他们帮他坐上了王位。他们让疯狂的国王掌握了权力。
Now they want credit for mitigating the madness.
现在又想获得减轻疯王的疯狂程度的功劳。
More than that, they want inoculation, so that after they’ve savored his reign, they’re spared the stain and can return without wound or shame to the social circles in which they long traveled, where Steve Bannon is no hero and Planned Parenthood no villain.
不仅如此，他们还想获得免疫，这样在享受完他的统治带来的好处后，他们的身上不会留下污点，还能毫发无损、不带任何羞愧地回到他们长期游走其中的那些社交圈子。在那些圈子里，史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)不是英雄，计划生育联合会(Planned Parenthood)也不是坏蛋。
“Saturday Night Live” had something to say about that. The show’s most recent episode included a mock commercial in which Ivanka, played by Scarlett Johansson, hawks a new signature fragrance: Complicit. It’s for “the woman who could stop all this but won’t.” Ivanka looks lovingly into a mirror — and sees her father staring back.
对此，《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)有话要说。最新一期《周六夜现场》里出现了一支戏仿广告。在广告里，斯嘉丽·约翰逊(Scarlett Johansson)扮演的伊万卡在推销一款新的标志性香水：同谋(Complicit)。它专为“那个能够阻止这一切但却不会这么做的女人”而设计。伊万卡温暖地看向镜子里——看到她父亲正盯着她。
I don’t think she could stop all this, and I don’t expect her to undermine him. But she’s under no obligation to prop him up.
我不认为她有能力阻止这一切，我也不认为她会针对他做出任何破坏之举。但她没有扶持他的义务。
From the moment when he announced his candidacy at Trump Tower in June 2015, her actions have far exceeded the demands of filial loyalty. And they’re not explained by some profound ideological affinity with her father, because she doesn’t spout ideology — just gauzy platitudes. Check out the “Wise Words” section of ivankatrump.com. It’s an overstuffed flea market of threadbare aphorisms (“never ever settle,” “work to become, not to acquire,” “keep your head up,” “there is enough success for everyone”) in fanciful typography and pinkish hues.
从他2015年6月在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)宣布竞选总统那一刻起，她的行动就远远超出了子女孝顺父母的要求。它们无法用她和她父亲在思想上存在某种深刻的相似性来解释，因为她并没有滔滔不绝地谈论思想，只是一些缥缈的陈词滥调。看看ivankatrump.com上“睿智言语”一栏吧。那是一个跳蚤市场，被老一套的格言警句塞得满满当当（“永远不要安于现状”、“工作是为了成就自己，而不是获取”、“继续昂首挺胸”、“成功管够，人人有份”）。该栏目使用了浅粉色调，排版花哨。
In campaigning full-force for her father, she and her brothers seemed at once to be repaying a debt — they’d profited so enormously from the Trump name — and hopping aboard a ride to greater dividends still. But she stood out, because she in particular insisted on a veneer of virtue. She alone marketed a persona of goodness.
在全力为她父亲竞选时，她和她的兄弟立刻给人一种他们是在还债——他们从特朗普这个名字中获得了太多的好处——同时又跳上了一艘驶向更大利益的船的感觉。但她与众不同，因为她尤其坚持要披上道德的外衣。只有她一个人宣传一种善良的形象。
That persona turned her into more than just a surrogate for her father, more even than a character witness. She was his alibi. He couldn’t be guilty of vileness toward women because he had produced a woman as enlightened and gracious as Ivanka, who not only stood with him but spoke up for him at the Republican National Convention, assuring the world of his benevolence.
这种表象让她不仅是她父亲的代理人，甚至不仅仅是品德证人。她是他不在犯罪现场的证人。他不会因为对待女性态度恶劣而被定罪，因为他培养出了一个像伊万卡这么有见识的优雅女性。她不仅常伴其左右，还在共和党全国大会(Republican National Convention)上为他辩护，向世人保证他的宅心仁厚。
The next day her Twitter account plugged the dress she’d worn, part of the Ivanka Trump Collection. The company’s website posted a montage of photos from the convention with links to the white leather satchel that was draped over her arm at one point and to the pumps she was wearing at another. And thus a daughter’s love became a huckster’s boon.
第二天，她的Twitter账号就对她穿的那条属于伊万卡·特朗普系列(Ivanka Trump Collection)的裙子进行了宣传。该公司的网站还贴出了一组来自共和党全国大会的照片，并给出了她在某个时刻挎在手臂上的白色皮包，和她在另一个场合穿的高跟鞋的链接。于是，女儿的孝顺变成了商人的福利。
The children of other presidents have readily, even greedily, reaped the fruits of nepotism, but how many have done so while simultaneously suggesting that they’re around to provide crucial ballast, performing an invaluable service for the American people?
其他总统的子女也欣然甚至是贪婪地享受过裙带关系的好处，但有多少人在这么做的同时，又自称待在总统身边是为了发挥至关重要的作用，为美国民众做出十分宝贵的服务？
Maybe her conversations with lawmakers really will yield legislation to lessen the cost of child care and to help working mothers, though it’s a long shot. Maybe she’ll do some targeted good. I don’t doubt that she’d like to.
也许她和议员的交谈真的会催生一项旨在降低育儿成本，帮助职场妈妈的立法，尽管可能性很小。也许她会在一些具体领域做些好事。我不怀疑她愿意这么做。
But that’s hardly the sum of her motivations, and it almost certainly isn’t the essence. Her meticulously groomed Twitter and Instagram accounts give her away. They’re exercises in self-affirmation, placing her in a Washington without pores or protests. It looks like she’s having the airbrushed adventure of a lifetime.
但这不太可能是她的全部动机，也几乎肯定不是她最重要的动机。她经过精心设计的Twitter和Instagram账号暴露了真相。它们是在练习自我肯定，让她置身于一个没有毛孔和抗议的华盛顿。看上去她似乎正在进行一次千载难逢，经过修图美化的冒险。
And it smells, yes, like complicity.
这的确感觉像是同谋。