LONDON — Ivanka Trump calls her father a homebody. “If it were up to him, he’d seldom leave New York,” she once wrote.
伦敦——伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)说她的父亲是个宅男。“如果让他说了算，他都不怎么愿意离开纽约，”她曾经写道。
By contrast, she has been her family’s leading globalist — doing deals around the world in her father’s name and her own. Even since her father took office, her own fashion brand has continued to look abroad, filing four new trademarks in Canada and the Philippines, according to a New York Times analysis of trademark records.
相比之下，她成了家族中的头号全球主义者——以她父亲和自己的名字在全世界做交易。据《纽约时报》的一份商标记录分析，自她父亲上任以来，她本人的时装品牌仍在展望海外市场，在加拿大和菲律宾申请了四个新的商标。
The continued activity is tricky territory for Trump’s new job as White House adviser. While she has stepped down from both her own fashion company and from the Trump Organization and put her brand in a trust, she has not given up her financial control, an unusual situation to navigate now that she is subject to federal ethics rules on conflicts of interest.
由于特朗普有了白宫顾问这个新工作，持续进行品牌经营活动变成了棘手的领域。虽然她已经从自己的时装公司和特朗普集团(Trump Organization)辞职，将她的品牌置于托管，但她并没有放弃对自己的财务进行控制，这是一个很不寻常的情况，因为她受到关于利益冲突的联邦伦理规则制约。
Even though many of her trademark applications were filed long before she took her government job, they could be decided on by foreign governments while she works in the White House, creating ethical issues with little precedent. While trademarks do not directly confer financial gains, they protect the use of logos and other intellectual property, making them valuable tools for companies looking to build new ventures or expand existing operations.
尽管许多商标申请都是在她接受政府工作很久前提交的，但有可能是在她进入白宫工作期间才被外国政府决定批准，这造成了几乎没有先例的伦理问题。虽然商标不能直接带来经济利益，但它们可以保护品牌标志的使用以及其他知识产权，对于希望建立新企业或扩大现有业务的公司来说是很有价值的工具。
Earlier this month, China approved three new trademarks for her brand on the same day she met China’s president, Xi Jinping, according to an Associated Press report. Japan also approved trademarks in Ivanka Trump’s name in February that included footwear, handbags and other apparel, records show. And trademark applications in her name are awaiting decisions in 10 countries, the Times analysis showed, including Kuwait, Qatar, Panama and Brazil.
据美联社报道，本月初，在她与中国国家主席习近平会面当天，中国便批准了她的品牌的三个新商标。记录表明，日本在2月也批准了伊万卡·特朗普名下的若干商标，其中包括鞋类、手袋和其他服饰。时报的分析显示，以她的名字提交申请的商标正在10个国家内等待批准，包括科威特、卡塔尔、巴拿马和巴西。
Trump has long been conducting a corporate two-step, trying to build her own global brand as she has helped push her father’s name into new parts of the world. Overall, Ivanka Trump Marks LLC, her trademarking business, has filed 173 foreign trademarks in 21 countries, as well as in Hong Kong and the European Union, in little more than a decade, according to the Times analysis. There are probably more, since there is no single repository of all global trademarks. All of the applications on record took place before she was a White House adviser.
特朗普长期以来一直在跳企业二步舞，一边帮助父亲把他的名字推向世界的新领域，一边也努力建立自己的全球品牌。根据时报的分析，总体而言，她的商标业务公司“伊万卡·特朗普商标公司”(Ivanka Trump Marks LLC)十几年间已在21个国家及香港和欧盟申请了173个外国商标。因为不存在全球所有商标的统一信息库，实际可能还有更多。所有记录在案的申请都是在她成为白宫顾问之前提交的。
Trump’s previous role as an informal adviser to President Donald Trump had already raised questions. She is a woman with a multitude of overseas business ventures who since the election has been afforded prime seating at meetings with a who’s who of foreign leaders — from Justin Trudeau to Shinzo Abe to Angela Merkel.
特朗普此前只是唐纳德·特朗普总统的非正式顾问，然而那个角色已经带来了问题。她拥有众多海外商业机构，自从大选之后，在同贾斯汀·特鲁多(Justin Trudeau)到安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)乃至安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)等众多外国政要会面时，她都得到了重要席位。
Now such issues become more complex. While presidents are exempt from federal conflict of interest law, Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, another senior White House aide, are not. They are barred from making decisions in government that could benefit their financial holdings, which are worth as much as $740 million, according to recent filings. They are also covered by the Constitution’s emoluments clause barring federal officials from accepting “any present, emolument, office or title of any kind whatever from any king, prince or foreign state.”
现在这样的问题变得越来越复杂。虽然总统可以不受联邦利益冲突法约束，但伊万卡·特朗普和她的丈夫、另一位高级白宫助理贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)却并非如此。根据最近的文件，他们被禁止在政府中做出可能有利于他们所持股份的决定，这些股份价值高达7.4亿美元。他们还受到宪法的薪酬条款限制，相关条款禁止联邦官员接受“来自任何国王、王子或外国政府的任何礼物、薪酬、职务或任何形式的头衔。”
Whether trademarks run afoul of such rules is a matter of debate between the Trump administration and its critics. Trademarks are certainly valuable assets as companies seek exclusive control over their global brands, and Trump herself has said that the first step in building a brand is to “do a comprehensive trademark search.”
特朗普政府与其批评者之间就商标是否违反这些规则展开了辩论。商标肯定是宝贵的资产，公司都会追求对自己的全球品牌拥有独家控制权，特朗普本人说过，建立品牌的第一步是“进行全面综合的商标搜索”。
Trump has taken steps to separate herself from her company. Her brother-in-law and sister-in-law serve as trustees, while Abigail Klem, her brand’s president, runs the company’s day-to-day operations.
特朗普已经逐步同自己的公司分离。她的小叔和小姑担任受托人，她的品牌总裁阿比盖尔·克莱姆(Abigail Klem)负责公司的日常业务。
But she has kept her financial interest in the company, and retains the ability to approve or veto certain deals through her trust arrangement. Trump also maintains a stake in the Trump International Hotel in Washington, just down the street from the White House.
但她一直保持在公司的经济利益，并保留通过信托安排批准或否决某些交易的能力。她也保留了华盛顿的特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel)的股份，这家酒店就在白宫的那条街上。
“When they weren’t going into the White House, I thought there was a lot of leeway there,” said John Pudner, the executive director of the conservative nonprofit Take Back Our Republic.
“他们还没有进入白宫时，我认为这里仍有很大的余地，”保守非盈利组织“夺回我们的共和国”(Take Back Our Republic)总干事约翰·普德纳(John Pudner)说。
Now, he said, “anything can be viewed as influence.”
至于现在，他说，“一切都可以被视为影响力。”
“I think it’s bad for the administration,” added Pudner, who voted for Donald Trump. “It could call into question any decision made, people wondering if there’s a business angle to it.”
“我认为这对政府是不利的，”投票给唐纳德·特朗普的普德纳补充说。“这可能会给任何决定都带来质疑，人们会猜测这些决定里是否有商业角度存在。”
The White House referred comments to the Trump Organization, which did not comment.
白宫将置评请求转给特朗普集团，后者没有置评。
Klem, president of Ivanka Trump’s brand, said in a statement, “The brand has filed, updated and rigorously protected its international trademarks over the past several years in the normal course of business, especially in regions where trademark infringement is rampant.
伊万卡·特朗普品牌总裁克莱姆在一份声明中表示：“过去几年间，本品牌在正常业务过程中，特别是在商标侵权猖獗的地区，已对国际商标提交注册和更新，并进行严格保护。
“We have recently seen a surge in trademark filings by unrelated third parties trying to capitalize on the name, and it is our responsibility to diligently protect our trademark.”
“我们最近看到不相关的第三方尝试利用这个名字申请商标的情况出现激增，我们有责任努力保护我们的商标。”
Trump has long had an international outlook. In her 2009 book, “The Trump Card: Playing to Win in Work and Life,” she credited the influence of her mother, Ivana, for her own love of travel. And not long after she joined the Trump Organization in 2005, she helped lead her father’s business abroad.
特朗普早已具有国际视野。她在自己2009年的《特朗普王牌：工作和生活的双赢之道》(The Trump Card: Playing to Win in Work and Life)一书中写道，是母亲伊万娜(Ivana)影响她爱上了旅行。2005年加入特朗普集团后不久，她开始协助将父亲的业务引向海外。
“Before my brothers and I joined the company, our business was primarily a New York-based operation,” she wrote in her book, adding that her father would say, “There are plenty of great deals right here in New York.”
“在我和哥哥、弟弟加入之前，我们的公司主要是一个纽约企业，”她在自己的书中写道，还说她的父亲总说：“纽约就有不少好买卖。”
It was not long before she began to concurrently push her own brand in many of the same markets as her father’s.
不久之前，她开始在父亲的许多市场领域内同期推出自己的品牌。
While she was overseeing the development of a controversial Trump Tower in Azerbaijan, which has since been abandoned, she was also filing trademarks for her own brand, for clothes and cosmetics.
在阿塞拜疆，她负责监督一处有争议的特朗普大厦的开发，这个项目后来被放弃了，与此同时她也在该国为自己的品牌、衣服和化妆品申请商标。
In China, while she was helping her father’s company make inroads, she developed her own following, taking out at least 23 trademarks for everything from swimwear to wedding dresses, both to battle locals trying to infringe on her name and to support her own interests.
在中国，她在帮助父亲的公司进驻该国市场同时，也发展了自己的崇拜者，注册了至少23个商标，内容从泳衣到婚纱多种多样，这两项工作都是为了防止当地人侵犯她的姓名权，维护她自身的利益。
Ivanka Trump has a following in China, where young professionals often equate material wealth with success. A video of her daughter singing in Chinese even went viral. But for many Chinese, Trump is the epitome of the fuerdai, a Mandarin expression that means “rich second generation,” a term provoking a mix of respect and resentment.
在中国，年轻的职场人士往往将物质财富等同于成功，特朗普在那里有一批拥护者。她女儿唱中文歌的视频甚至被疯转。但是对于许多中国人来说，特朗普是“富二代”的化身，这个词既能引起尊重，亦能引起怨恨。
A spokesman for the brand said several of its licensees wholesale products in China. More than a dozen of Ivanka Trump’s own Chinese trademarks were filed during the election campaign.
特朗普品牌的发言人表示，它的几个许可证持有者负责在中国批发产品。在总统竞选活动期间，该品牌申请了十几个伊万卡·特朗普本人的中国商标。
It is not clear how Trump, now a federal employee, will navigate continuing ties to far-flung foreign business interests. Robert Weissman, the president of Public Citizen, a left-leaning watchdog group, said that if Trump’s brand was trying to expand operations or import from other countries, there could be “meaningful interaction” with foreign governments. Foreign companies, too, might also try to cut special deals with the brand to curry favor with the Trump administration, Weissman added.
如今特朗普已经成为联邦雇员，目前尚不清楚她接下来将如何处理涉及范围极广的海外商业利益关系。左派监督组织“公众公民”(Public Citizen)的会长罗伯特·魏斯曼(Robert Weissman)表示，如果特朗普的品牌试图扩大经营或从其他国家进口，那么就有可能同外国政府发生“有意义的互动”。魏斯曼补充说，外国公司同样也有可能会尝试与特朗普品牌进行特别交易，以求获得特朗普政府的青睐。
“Then you get into the issue about improper influence,” he said.
“那么你就会卷入不正当影响的问题，”他说。
Jamie Gorelick, a Washington ethics lawyer who is acting as an independent adviser to Trump’s trust, said in a statement that since Trump had resigned from her company, she “has had no involvement with trademark applications submitted by the business."
华盛顿伦理律师杰米·戈雷利克(Jamie Gorelick)是特朗普信托的独立顾问，她在一项声明中表示，自从特朗普从自己的公司辞职以来，她“没有参与该企业提交的商标申请。”
“The federal ethics rules do not require you to recuse from any matter concerning a foreign country just because a business that you have an ownership interest in has a trademark application pending there,” she added. “Ivanka will recuse from particular matters where she has a conflict of interest or where the White House counsel determines her participation would present appearance or impartiality concerns.”
“联邦伦理规则不会只因为你具备所有权的企业在海外的商标申请尚未通过，就要求你回避任何与外国有关的事情，”她还说。“伊万卡将回避同她有利益冲突的特定事项，如果白宫律师认为她的参与会带来显然的顾虑，或者与公平相关的顾虑，她也会做出回避。”