BERLIN — Ivanka Trump shared the stage Tuesday with some of the world’s most powerful women, representing the United States at a meeting of female business leaders.
柏林——周二，伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)代表美国参加了一场女性商业领袖会议，和世界上一些最有影响力的女性出现在同一个舞台上。
But during a panel discussion that also included her host, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Trump was jeered by members of the audience.
不过在一场小组讨论期间，伊万卡·特朗普却遭到现场观众的嘲弄。参加这场讨论的嘉宾有款待她的东道主、德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)。
On her first official overseas trip as an adviser to the president, Trump was thrust into a more familiar role — defending her father’s behavior to skeptical foreigners.
在作为美国总统的顾问首次出国访问时，特朗普被推入一个她更加熟悉的角色——面对心存怀疑的外国人为父亲的行为辩护。
“The German audience is not that familiar with the concept of a first daughter,” the panel’s moderator, Miriam Meckel, editor-in-chief of the financial weekly WirtschaftsWoche, said. “I’d like to ask you, what is your role, and who are you representing — your father as president of the United States, the American people, or your business?”
“德国观众不熟悉第一女儿这个概念，”该谈论小组的主持人、《经济周刊》(WirtschaftsWoche)主编米丽娅姆·梅克尔(Miriam Meckel)说。“我想问一下，你的角色是什么，你代表的是谁——作为美国总统的你的父亲，美国人民，还是你的生意？”
“Certainly not the latter,” Trump replied, adding, “And I am rather unfamiliar with this role as well, as it is quite new to me.”
“肯定不是后者，”特朗普回答，“我对这个角色也不太熟悉，因为它对我来说也十分新鲜。”
During the panel discussion, which included Merkel and Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Trump, 35, relied on a familiar script.
在这场有默克尔和国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)总裁克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)参与的小组讨论中，35岁的伊万卡·特朗普的发言围绕着一个令人熟悉的脚本。
President Donald Trump has been “a tremendous champion of supporting families and enabling them to thrive,” she said. That comment prompted some members of the audience to groan and hiss.
唐纳德·特朗普总统“一直积极倡导对家庭的支持，助他们取得成功”，她说。听到这个评价，在场的一些听众发出了嘘声。
“You hear the reaction from the audience,” Merkel said. “I need to address one more point. Some attitudes toward women your father has displayed might leave one questioning whether he’s such an empowerer for women.”
“你听见了观众的反应，”梅克尔说。“我需要提到另外一点。你父亲展现出来的对女性的一些态度，可能会让人质疑他是否真的是一个能如此赋权给女性的人。”
Trump replied, “I’ve certainly heard the criticism from the media, that’s been perpetuated,” leading to laughter from some of the people at the conference.
特朗普回答，“我当然听到了来自媒体的批评，很难忘记的，”现场有人发出了笑声。
She added that the thousands of women who worked for her father’s businesses, “are a testament to his belief and solid conviction in the potential of women and their ability to do the job as well as any man.” She said her father had raised her just the same as he did her two brothers. “He encouraged me and enabled me to thrive.”
她还提到，她父亲的公司有数千名女性职员，“这可以证明，他相信也坚信女性有潜力、有能力把工作做得和男人一样好。”她说她父亲养育她的方式和两个弟弟是一样的。“他鼓励过我，助我取得成功。”
After the lively panel discussion in Berlin on Tuesday, Trump took the heckling she received from the audience in stride.
周二在柏林进行的那场热烈的小组讨论结束后，特朗普面对台下的起哄表现得泰然自若。