WASHINGTON — President Trump lashed out on Wednesday at the Nordstrom department store chain for dropping his daughter Ivanka’s clothing and accessories line, once again raising ethical questions about the relationship between his presidency and his family’s sprawling business interests.
华盛顿——特朗普总统周三猛烈抨击百货连锁诺德斯特龙(Nordstrom)下架他女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)的服装和饰品品牌。此事再次引发了有关他的总统职位和庞大家族商业利益之间关系的伦理质疑。
Mr. Trump has already broken with tradition by singling out companies for criticism, like Boeing, Lockheed Martin, automakers and news organizations, sometimes causing gyrations in their stock prices and prompting debates about whether corporations would tailor their conduct to suit a bellicose president. But in those cases, his ire targeted government contracts, departing American jobs or news coverage — not his own family’s personal fortunes.
特朗普单独挑出一些公司进行指责已经打破了传统，如波音(Boeing)、洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockheed Martin)、汽车制造商和新闻机构。他的这种做法有时会导致相关公司的股价出现波动，并引发对企业会不会为了适应一位好斗的总统而特意做出某些行为的争论。但在那些例子中，他的怒火针对的都是政府合同、正在消失的美国就业岗位或新闻报道，而不是他自己家族的财富。
Six days after Nordstrom announced that, based on sales, it would no longer carry Ms. Trump’s products — a decision that prompted some Trump supporters to call for a boycott of the stores — the president took to Twitter to complain that “Ivanka has been treated so unfairly” by the company. He first posted the message from his personal account, and then re-sent it from his official White House account.
特朗普在Twitter上抱怨称，“伊万卡受到了非常不公平的对待”。六天前，诺德斯特龙宣布，根据销售情况，将不再售卖伊万卡·特朗普的产品。这一决定促使特朗普的部分支持者号召抵制该百货品牌。特朗普先是用自己的个人账号发帖，后来又用自己的白宫官方账号发了一遍。
Mr. Trump’s complaint also raised questions about how he might handle the moves of numerous other companies as their relationships with Trump brands change. The large national discount retailers T. J. Maxx and Marshalls, and Neiman Marcus, the luxury department store, for example, have recently moved away from their ties to Ms. Trump’s products.
随着与特朗普品牌的关系发生变化，其他很多公司也会采取相应的措施。特朗普的抱怨也引发了对他可能会如何处理这些措施的质疑。比如，全国性大型折扣零售商T. J. Maxx和Marshalls，以及奢侈品百货公司Neiman Marcus，最近都终止了与伊万卡·特朗普的产品的合作。
Sean Spicer, Mr. Trump’s press secretary, said the president’s tweet was not about business but about “an attack on his daughter.”
特朗普的新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)称，总统的推文说的不是商业，而是“他女儿受到的攻击”。
“For people to take out their concern about his actions, or his executive orders, on members of his family, he has every right to stand up for his family,” Mr. Spicer said.
“对于那些把对他的行动、他的行政命令的关切发泄到他家人身上的人要知道，他完全有权支持自己的家人，”斯派塞说。
It was not clear if Mr. Spicer was referring to critics of Mr. Trump who have called for a boycott of businesses bearing the family name, or to some political motive by Nordstrom. After the president temporarily barred people from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States, Nordstrom sent its employees a statement saying that it valued immigrants and offered support to those affected by the executive order.
尚不清楚斯派塞指的是批评特朗普的人，还是诺德斯特龙的某个政治动机。特朗普的批评者已呼吁抵制名字中带有特朗普的企业。在特朗普暂时禁止以穆斯林为主的七国公民入境后，诺德斯特龙向员工发出了一份声明，称其重视移民，并为受该行政命令影响的人提供了支持。
On Wednesday, responding to Mr. Spicer’s comments, Nordstrom maintained that it had pulled Ms. Trump’s products based on their declining sales performance. The company said it informed Ms. Trump of its decision in early January.
周三回应斯派塞的表述时，诺德斯特龙坚称，决定下架伊万卡·特朗普的产品是基于其销售业绩不断下滑。该公司称其在1月初便将自己的决定告知了伊万卡·特朗普。
“Over the past year, and particularly in the last half of 2016, sales of the brand have steadily declined to the point where it didn’t make good business sense for us to continue with the line for now,” the Nordstrom statement said. “We’ve had a great relationship with the Ivanka Trump team.”
“过去一年里，尤其是2016年下半年，该品牌的销售额逐步下跌，已经到了无法继续销售该品牌的程度，”诺德斯特龙的声明说。“我们与伊万卡·特朗普团队关系良好。”
As Mr. Trump has noted several times, the president is exempt from conflict of interest provisions in federal law that prohibit other government officials from using their positions to benefit themselves or their family members financially. So even if his post was meant to intimidate Nordstrom or other retailers that still work with Ivanka Trump, it probably does not violate conflict of interest rules, said ethics experts, who nonetheless called it inappropriate.
正如特朗普多次指出的那样，联邦法律中禁止其他政府官员利用职务让自己或家人在经济上受益的利益冲突条款不适用于总统。因此伦理专家称，即便意在恐吓诺德斯特龙或其他仍与伊万卡·特朗普合作的零售商，他的帖子可能也没有违反利益冲突规定。但他们认为，特朗普的帖子有失恰当。
“It is a total misuse of presidential power,” said Lawrence M. Noble, the general counsel of the Campaign Legal Center and formerly the top lawyer at the Federal Election Commission. “He is really bringing to bear the whole weight of the office of president on a business decision. Take another company that is considering whether or not to drop her line — they obviously are going to ask themselves if they want to be attacked by the president.”
“这完全是滥用总统权力，”竞选法律中心(Campaign Legal Center)法律总顾问、前联邦选举委员会(Federal Election Commission)首席律师劳伦斯·M·诺布尔(Lawrence M. Noble)说。“他真的是在让商业决定承载总统办公室的全部影响力。假如另一家公司正在考虑是否撤下她的品牌，他们显然会问自己想不想被总统攻击。”
Mr. Trump’s blast at Nordstrom came two days after his wife, Melania, filed a libel lawsuit that described her “multiyear term” as “one of the most photographed women in the world” — an apparent reference to her status as a candidate’s wife and now first lady — as a lucrative business opportunity. And Mr. Spicer, the White House spokesman, has urged people to visit the Trump International Hotel in Washington, which opened late last year.
在特朗普炮轰诺德斯特龙的两天前，他的妻子梅拉尼娅提起一起诽谤诉讼，称她“多年来”作为“全世界出镜最多的女性之一”——显然是指她曾经的总统候选人妻子、现在的第一夫人的身份——成了一个利润丰厚的商机。白宫发言人斯派塞还呼吁民众去华盛顿去年年底开业的特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel)参观。
Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, a group that promotes ethics in government, said Mr. Trump’s swipe at Nordstrom was not a major issue in itself. But Mr. Weissman said it reinforces that as president, Mr. Trump continues to have multiple conflicts of interest with his own and his family’s business interests. Mr. Trump refuses to sell his assets or put them into a blind trust, but he has said that he has ceded operation of his businesses to his adult sons, Donald Jr. and Eric.
促进政府伦理道德的组织公众公民(Public Citizen)的负责人罗伯特·韦斯曼(Robert Weissman)说，特朗普对诺德斯特龙的攻击本身不是大问题。但韦斯曼称，此事证实，身为总统，特朗普依然会面临诸多涉及他自己及其家族商业利益的利益冲突。特朗普拒绝出售自己的资产，或是把它们放入保密信托中，但他称已将名下企业的经营交给已长大成人的儿子小唐纳德(Donald Jr.)和埃里克(Eric)。
“He has committed to severing himself from the family business operations,” Mr. Weissman said. “That is obviously not the case.”
“他已经承诺要脱离家族企业的经营活动，”韦斯曼说。“情况显然不是这样。”
Ivanka Trump has no formal role in the administration, but her father has included her in meetings with foreign officials and business leaders, and her husband, Jared Kushner, is an adviser to the president. After years as a business executive, Ms. Trump has suddenly found herself without a clear path to walk as she adjusts to life in Washington.
伊万卡·特朗普在政府中没有正式的角色，但她父亲在和外国官员和商业领袖开会时会让她和她丈夫、总统顾问贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)参加。伊万卡多年来担任商业高管，现在她突然发现，自己在适应华盛顿的生活之际，并没有一条清晰的路径可走。
She has expressed frustration to a number of associates with Nordstrom’s decision, describing it as a political move and maintaining that the sales of her brand had not sagged. While she is no longer involved in the management of her business, she is said to be acutely aware of the controversies surrounding her product line.
对于诺德斯特龙的决定，她向一些朋友表了失望之情，称之为政治举动，并坚持说自己品牌的销售额并没有下降。虽然她不再参与自己业务的管理工作，据说她仍然敏锐地意识到了围绕她的产品线产生的争议。
The Trump presidency is forcing retailers to rethink their relationships with Trump product lines, weighing how well they sell and what actions will anger or placate the largest number of customers. After Nordstrom said it was dropping Ivanka Trump’s merchandise, Trump supporters on social media began calling for a boycott of the stores.
特朗普当上总统后，零售商不得不重新考虑与特朗普产品线的关系，衡量其销售状况的好坏，以及什么行动将激怒或安抚最大数量的顾客。在诺德斯特龙宣布放弃伊万卡·特朗普的产品后，特朗普在社交媒体上的支持者继续呼吁大家抵制该商店。