Ivanka Trump, the elder daughter of President Trump, is becoming an official government employee, joining her husband in serving as an unpaid adviser to her father in the White House.
特朗普总统的长女伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)将正式成为一名政府雇员，加入她丈夫的行列，担任父亲在白宫的无偿顾问。
Ms. Trump already has an office in the West Wing, and she said last week that she would serve as an informal adviser to her father. But that plan prompted criticism from ethics experts, who said it would allow her to avoid some rules and disclosures.
伊万卡已经在西翼有了一间办公室，上周她表示，她将担任父亲的非正式顾问。但这一计划遭到了伦理专家的批评，他们表示，她可以因此而避开一些规则和信息披露要求。
“I have heard the concerns some have with my advising the president in my personal capacity while voluntarily complying with all ethics rules, and I will instead serve as an unpaid employee in the White House office, subject to all of the same rules as other federal employees,” Ms. Trump said in a statement on Wednesday.
“我以个人身份向总统提供咨询意见，同时自愿遵守所有伦理规则，我听说这引起了一些人的担心，所以我会在白宫办公室担任无偿雇员，像其他联邦雇员一样遵守所有的法规，”伊万卡在周三的一份声明中说。
“Throughout this process I have been working closely and in good faith with the White House counsel and my personal counsel to address the unprecedented nature of my role,” she said.
她说：“在整个过程中，我一直在诚心诚意地和白宫律师以及我的私人律师密切合作，以便承担这个对我来说是前所未有的角色。”
Ms. Trump’s title will be assistant to the president. Her husband, Jared Kushner, has the title of senior adviser.
伊万卡的职位将会是总统助理。她的丈夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)的职位是高级顾问。
“We are pleased that Ivanka Trump has chosen to take this step in her unprecedented role as first daughter and in support of the president,” a spokeswoman for the president said in an email. “Ivanka’s service as an unpaid employee furthers our commitment to ethics, transparency, and compliance and affords her increased opportunities to lead initiatives driving real policy benefits for the American public that would not have been available to her previously.”
总统的发言人在一封电邮中说：“我们很高兴第一女儿伊万卡·特朗普选择扮演一个对她来说前所未有的角色，为总统提供帮助。伊万卡成为一名无偿雇员，会进一步推动了我们对伦理、透明度和合规性的承诺，并为她提供更多带头倡议的机会，为她之前无法接触到的美国公众带来实际的政策利益。”
Ms. Trump’s lawyer, Jamie S. Gorelick, said that her decision stemmed from “her commitment to compliance with federal ethics standards and her openness to opposing points of view.”
伊万卡的律师杰米·S·戈雷利克(Jamie S. Gorelick)说，她的决定出自于“她对遵守联邦道德标准的承诺，和对反面观点的开放心态”。
“She will file the financial disclosure forms required of federal employees and be bound by the same ethics rules that she had planned to comply with voluntarily,” Ms. Gorelick said.
戈雷利克女士表示：“她将提交联邦雇员需要提交的财务信息披露表格，并受到她本计划自愿遵循的同一伦理规范的约束。”