Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s daughter and son-in-law, will remain the beneficiaries of a sprawling real estate and investment business still worth as much as $741 million, despite their new government responsibilities, according to ethics filings released by the White House on Friday night.
根据白宫周五晚间公布的伦理申报文件，唐纳德·特朗普总统的女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)和女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)仍将是一家庞大的房地产和投资公司的受益人，其价值高达7.41亿美元，尽管他们最近开始承担一些政府职责。
Ivanka Trump will also maintain a stake in the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. The hotel, just down the street from the White House, has drawn protests from ethics experts who worry that foreign governments or special interests could stay there in order to curry favor with the administration.
伊万卡·特朗普还将保留华盛顿特区的特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel)的股权。这家酒店和白宫在同一条街上，它引起了伦理专家的抗议，他们担心外国政府官员或特殊利益人士可能会为了讨好本届政府而下榻该酒店。
It is unclear how Ivanka Trump would earn income from that stake. Kushner’s financial disclosures say that Ivanka Trump earned between $1 million and $5 million from January 2016 to March 2017, and puts the value of her stake at between $5 million and $25 million.
尚不清楚伊万卡·特朗普将如何从那份股权中获利。库什纳的财务披露文件表明，从2016年1月至2017年3月，伊万卡·特朗普的收入在100万美元至500万美元之间，由此推算，她的股权价值在500万美元至2500万美元之间。
The disclosures were part of a broad document release by the White House that exposed the assets of as many as 180 senior officials to public scrutiny. The reports show assets and wealth that senior staff members owned at the time they entered government service.
这些文件是白宫公布的覆盖面颇广的文件的一部分，披露了多达180名高级官员的资产情况，供公众监督。这些文件显示的是高级职员开始在政府任职时拥有的资产和财富。
Those disclosures were to include the assets of Gary Cohn, the former president of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. who now leads the National Economic Council, and Stephen K. Bannon, the counselor to the president.
这些披露文件包括前高盛集团(Goldman Sachs Group Inc.)总裁、现国家经济委员会(National Economic Council)主席加里·科恩(Gary Cohn)和总统顾问斯蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)的资产。
Bannon disclosed $191,000 in consulting fees he earned from Breitbart News Network, the conservative media organization; $125,333 from Cambridge Analytica, a data firm that worked for the Trump campaign; and $61,539 in salary from the Government Accountability Institute, a conservative nonprofit organization. All three are backed by Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebekah, financiers and major Republican donors.
文件批露了班农从保守派媒体机构布莱巴特新闻网(Breitbart News Network)获得的19.1万美元的咨询费；从为特朗普竞选团队服务的数据公司Cambridge Analytica获得的125333美元；以及从保守派非盈利组织政府责任研究所(Government Accountability Institute)获得的61539美元的薪水。这三家机构都是由金融家、共和党主要捐款人罗伯特·默瑟(Robert Mercer)和女儿丽贝卡(Rebekah)资助的。
Bannon’s most valuable asset was Bannon Strategic Advisors Inc., a privately held consulting firm into which income from his other investments appeared to flow. It was valued at between $5 million and $25 million. He also held bank accounts valued at as much as $2.25 million, and rental real estate worth as much as $10.5 million.
班农最值钱的资产是班农战略顾问公司(Bannon Strategic Advisors Inc.)，它是一家私人咨询公司，他从其他投资上获得的收入似乎都流入了这家公司。该公司的价值在500万美元至2500万美元之间。他持有的银行账户资产高达225万美元，地产租金高达1050万美元。
The Trump administration is considered the most wealthy in U.S. history, with members of his senior staff and Cabinet worth an estimated $12 billion, according to a tally by Bloomberg News. The Friday filings will add voluminous detail to that top-line figure.
根据彭博新闻社(Bloomberg News)的统计，特朗普这届政府被认为是美国历史上最富有的，估计其高级官员和内阁成员的总资产高达120亿美元。周五公布的文件将为这些最大值数字补充大量细节。
“I think one of the really interesting things that people are going to see today — and I think it’s something that should be celebrated — is that the president has brought a lot of people into this administration, and this White House in particular, who have been very blessed and very successful,” the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, said. White House officials “have given up a lot to come into government by setting aside a lot of assets.”
“我认为，人们如今将会看到一件真正有趣的事——我认为那是一件值得庆祝的事——总统把许多非常幸运、非常成功的人带到了这届政府，尤其是白宫，”白宫新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)说。白宫官员“把大量资产放到一边，加入这届政府，他们放弃了很多”。
Until January, Kushner was the chief executive of Kushner Cos., a family-run real estate investment firm with holdings across the country, a growing business that has taken part in at least $7 billion of acquisitions during the past decade.
直到今年1月，库什纳仍是库什纳公司(Kushner Cos.)的首席执行官。它是一个家族经营的房地产投资公司，在美国各地拥有资产。这个不断壮大的公司在过去十年间参与了至少价值70亿美元的收购活动。
Late Friday, the White House released details of the plan devised by his advisers to avoid conflicts of interest between his government role and the wide-ranging business empire Kushner ran with his father. That business depends on foreign investment from undisclosed sources, as well as billions of dollars in loans from the world’s biggest financial services firms.
周五晚些时候，白宫公布了库什纳顾问团的计划细节，以避免他的政府角色与他和父亲经营的庞大商业帝国发生利益冲突。该公司依赖于未公布来源的外国投资以及世界上最大的金融服务企业的数十亿美元贷款。
The White House also detailed the business interests of Ivanka Trump.
白宫还详细介绍了伊万卡·特朗普的商业利益。
Although Kushner has stepped down from his management positions at the more than 200 entities that operated aspects of the family real estate business, he will remain a beneficiary of the vast majority of the business he ran for the past decade, through a series of trusts that already owned the various real estate companies.
尽管库什纳辞去了经营家族地产公司各个方面的200多家实体的管理职位，但他仍将是自己过去十年间经营的这家公司的绝大多数业务的受益者，途径是通过一系列本就拥有各个房地产公司的信托基金。
The plan laid out on Friday “is not sufficient,” said Larry Noble, a former general counsel and chief ethics office for the Federal Election Commission. “While removing himself from the management of the businesses is an important step, he is still financially benefiting from how the businesses do. This presents potential for a conflict of interest. Given his level in the White House and broad portfolio it’s hard to see how he will recuse himself from everything that may impact his financial interest.”
前联邦选举委员会(Federal Election Commission)总顾问兼首席伦理官拉里·诺布尔(Larry Noble)表示，周五列出的计划“还不够”，“尽管辞去这些公司的管理职位是重要的一步，但这些公司的运营情况仍将影响他的收入。这意味着潜在的利益冲突。鉴于他在白宫的高级地位和广泛的投资组合，很难看出他将如何从可能影响自己经济利益的所有这些事务中脱身”。
While the filing discloses Kushner’s personal lenders, it does not provide information on his business partners or lenders to his projects.
虽然文件披露了库什纳的个人贷款方，但没有提供他的商业伙伴或项目贷款方的信息。
His real estate firm has borrowed money from the likes of Goldman Sachs, Blackstone, Deutsche Bank and the French bank Natixis. It also received loans from Israel’s largest bank, Bank Hapoalim, which is the subject of a U.S. Justice Department investigation into allegations that it helped wealthy Americans evade taxes using undeclared accounts.
他的房地产公司的贷款来自高盛集团、黑石集团(Blackstone)、德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)和法国外贸银行(Natixis)等企业。它还从以色列最大的银行工人银行(Bank Hapoalim)获得了多笔贷款，该银行因涉嫌使用未公开的帐户帮助美国富人逃税而正在接受美国司法部调查。