When Nancy Pelosi, the minority leader of the House of Representatives, called Donald Trump shortly after the Nov. 8 election, they talked about domestic policy and infrastructure. But when Pelosi raised the subject of women’s issues, the president-elect did something unexpected: He handed the phone to another person in the room — his 35-year-old daughter, Ivanka.
11月8日美国大选结束后不久，众议院(House of Representatives)少数派领袖南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)给唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)打电话，他们谈论了国内政策和基础设施。但当佩洛西提到女性问题时，这位候任总统做了一件出人意料的事：他把手机递给了房间里的另一个人——他35岁的女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)。
Around the same time, Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook and the author of the best-selling women’s empowerment book “Lean In,” reached out to Ivanka Trump, hoping to begin what aides from both sides described as “a dialogue.”
几乎与此同时，Facebook的首席运营官、畅销女性权利书籍《向前一步》(Lean In)的作者谢丽尔·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)与伊万卡·特朗普联系，希望展开双方助理所说的“对话”。
Anne-Marie Slaughter, a policy adviser to Hillary Clinton at the State Department and the author of “Unfinished Business: Women Men Work Family,” had met Ivanka Trump about a year ago at Fortune’s Most Powerful Women Summit. She also sent word to the incoming first daughter a week after the election, saying that she hoped to be in touch with her after her father took office.
大约一年前，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)担任国务卿时的政策顾问、《我们为什么不能拥有一切》(Unfinished Business: Women Men Work Family)的作者安妮-玛丽·斯劳特(Anne-Marie Slaughter)在《财富》杂志最具影响力女性峰会(Fortune’s Most Powerful Women Summit)上见到了伊万卡·特朗普。大选结束一周后，她也给这位新任第一女儿传话，称自己希望在其父就任后与她保持联系。
“She is really serious about the ‘care agenda’ and can be a strong inside force,” Slaughter said in an interview.
“她对‘医疗议程’的态度是真诚的，可以成为一股强大的内部力量，”斯劳特在接受采访时说。
Perhaps most important, she said, “I don’t know anyone else.”
她说，也许最重要的是，“我不认识其他人”。
A month and a half before her father is scheduled to be inaugurated, Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, 35, are key advisers to the president-elect, with Ivanka Trump poised to be perhaps the most influential first daughter since Alice Roosevelt Longworth. They have attended meetings with political advisers, job seekers, foreign leaders and real estate developers eager to sell $2 million apartments as “president-elect branded.”
现在，在父亲就职前的一个半月，伊万卡和35岁的丈夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)是这位候任总统的重要顾问。伊万卡·特朗普可能会成为继艾丽斯·罗斯福·朗沃思(Alice Roosevelt Longworth)之后最具影响力的第一女儿。他们参加各种会议，包括与政治顾问、求职者、外国领导人以及地产开发商的会议——那些开发商渴望销售“以候任总统命名的”价值200万美元的公寓。
They are also triaging calls and emails from their own left-leaning high-powered friends and acquaintances who are hoping to find a voice for their causes in the Trump administration.
他们也在筛选位高权重的左倾朋友和熟人打来的电话和发来的邮件，那些人希望在特朗普政府中给自己的事业找到代言人。
Even Leonardo DiCaprio has weighed in. The Oscar-winning actor recently met with Ivanka Trump privately and gave her a copy of his climate change documentary, “Before the Flood,” according to aides to both people.
甚至连莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)也加入进来。据双方的助理称，前不久，这位奥斯卡获奖演员与伊万卡·特朗普私下会面，给了她一份他的气候变化纪录片《洪水泛滥之前》(Before the Flood)的拷贝。
But as her platform gets bigger, she is also coming in for some criticism that her primary agenda may be the further enhancement of the Ivanka Trump brand she carefully built over the past decade.
但是，随着她的平台变得更大，她也招来一些批评，称她的首要计划可能是进一步推广她在过去10年里小心经营的伊万卡·特朗普品牌。
In that time, she has published a New York Times best-selling self-help memoir (with another book scheduled for next spring), started a fashion and jewelry brand, co-starred with her father on “The Apprentice” and become a fixture at fashion shows and at charity balls. Messages about empowering women have been woven into her sales pitch, which blends inspirational mottos with “shop this look” appeals on her website, ivankatrump.com.
在这段时间里，她出版了《纽约时报》畅销励志回忆录（另一本书将于明年春天出版）；开创了一个时装和珠宝品牌；和父亲一起参加真人秀节目《学徒》(The Apprentice)；成为时装秀和慈善舞会的常客。关于赋予女性权利的信息被融入她的销售宣传中，她把鼓舞人心的格言与“购买这个造型”的诱惑融合在自己的网站ivankatrump.com上。
She said on “60 Minutes” last month that when her father becomes president, she will just be a “daughter.” She has said she will use her “heightened visibility” to champion working women. (After the show, Trump was criticized for her company’s attempt to market the Ivanka Trump $10,800 diamond and gold bracelet she wore during the interview. She later apologized and said her brand was due for a “readjustment.”)
上个月，她的父亲在大选中获胜后，她在《60分钟》(60 Minutes)节目中表示，她将只做“女儿”。她还说，她将利用自己“扩大的知名度”支持职业女性（节目播出后，有人批评她的公司试图推销她在采访中佩戴的价值10800美元的黄金钻石手链。后来，她公开道歉，并表示她的品牌会进行“调整”）。
Some prominent figures remain skeptical of Trump’s commitment to their causes.
有些知名人士依然对伊万卡支持他们事业的程度抱有疑虑。
“I don’t think it’s useful to denigrate the image she projects as a working woman and as a mother and a wife, but there are limits to it,” said Faye Wattleton, the former president of Planned Parenthood. “It’s easy to talk about self-help when you have access to the best medical care in the world by virtue of your birth. It’s not so easy when you can’t earn a living wage and you have children to support. And we have not heard her speak out on those hard survival issues.”
“我觉得，诋毁她作为职业女性、母亲和妻子的形象没有用，但这个形象有局限性，”计划生育联合会(Planned Parenthood)前主席费伊·沃特利顿(Faye Wattleton)说。“如果你生来就能享受世界上最好的医疗护理，那么谈论励志很容易。但是，如果你无法挣到足够的钱去维持生活，又要养孩子，就没那么容易了。我们尚未听她谈论过那些挣扎求存者面临的问题。”
Stella Schnabel, the actress and daughter of the artist and director Julian Schnabel, seemed personally affronted by what she saw as Trump’s support of her father’s positions. “I had a playdate with Ivanka. I went to Mar-a-Lago!” Schnabel said of Trump, as she stood beside shoe designer Arden Wohl, an acquaintance of the future first daughter for two decades and who counts Trump among her 33,000 Instagram followers.
艺术家、导演朱利安·施纳贝尔(Julian Schnabel)的女儿、演员斯黛拉·施纳贝尔(Stella Schnabel)认为，伊万卡的某些表现是对父亲立场的支持，这让她觉得自己遭到了冒犯。“小时候我们两家人聚会让孩子一起玩。我去过马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)！”施纳贝尔站在鞋履设计师阿登·沃尔(Arden Wohl)身旁说。后者熟识未来第一女儿已有20年，伊万卡是她在Instagram上的3.3万名粉丝之一。
“I always thought her father was tacky. But she’s elegant and classy and strong. She had a great group of friends when she was at Trinity,” Wohl said, referring to the Upper West Side private school Trump attended. “So I can’t understand this. She is not a hateful, racist person. She’s just not.”
“我一直觉得她父亲很俗气。但是她优雅、时尚、坚强。她在圣三一学校(Trinity)上学时有一大群朋友，”沃尔说。圣三一学校是伊万卡上过的一所上西区私立学校。“所以，这是我不能理解的。她不是一个充满仇恨的种族主义者。绝对不是。”
Tell that to mogul Barry Diller, a social acquaintance for many years, and one who in 2009 did a business deal with Kushner.
这些话可以跟大亨巴里·迪勒(Barry Diller)说。多年来，他和伊万卡算是泛泛之交，2009年还和库什纳做了一笔生意。
“I think it’s delusional to believe there’s any difference between Mr. Trump and his children on any of his extreme positions,” Diller, a Clinton donor in the 2016 campaign, wrote in a recent email. “They’ve had every opportunity to publicly modify them and have not done so.”
“我觉得人们有一种错觉，认为特朗普和他的孩子们在他的极端立场上存在分歧，”前不久，迪勒在接受邮件采访时说。在2016年大选中，他是克林顿的捐款人。“他们有很多机会公开纠正这种错觉，但他们没有这样做。”
For a long time, Ivanka Trump’s popularity owed (at least in part) to her ability to smooth out her father’s rough edges.
长期以来，伊万卡·特朗普之所以受欢迎，（至少部分）是因为她能够磨掉一些父亲的棱角。
Where Donald Trump was brusque, Ivanka Trump was tactful. Where Donald Trump came off self-centered and easily distracted, she was self-effacing and sharply focused, traits she displayed from her earliest days growing up on the Upper East Side.
唐纳德·特朗普很唐突，而伊万卡·特朗普很圆滑。唐纳德·特朗普显得以自我为中心，很容易分神，而伊万卡很谦逊，注意力很集中——那是她早年在上东区长大时就表现出来的品质。
Ivanka Trump worked briefly as a model as a teenager, before entering Georgetown University. Two years later, she transferred to her father’s alma mater, the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
伊万卡·特朗普十多岁时去乔治城大学(Georgetown University)就读前，曾短暂做过模特。两年后，她转去父亲的母校宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)沃顿商学院(Wharton School)。
After graduation, she began to get photographed around town, at parties like the opening of the Tribeca Film Festival and the annual Frick Gala, where she stood out as a refreshing change from a generation of hard-partying heiresses like Paris Hilton, Nicole Richie and Casey Johnson.
毕业后，她被拍到在纽约市各处参加派对，比如翠贝卡电影节(Tribeca Film Festival)的开幕式以及一年一度的弗里克庆典(Frick Gala)，在那一代经常参加派对的女继承人中，比如帕丽斯·希尔顿(Paris Hilton)、妮科尔·里奇(Nicole Richie)和凯茜·安东尼(Casey Johnson)，她脱颖而出，令人耳目一新。
By then, she was working for her father at the Trump Organization, but she built a social life that in many ways eclipsed that of her famous father.
那时，她已经在特朗普集团(Trump Organization)为父亲工作，不过她的社交生活在很多方面超越了著名的父亲。
Donald Trump and his older sons are not fixtures of the New York power scene, but Ivanka Trump and Kushner, who bought The New York Observer in 2006, are more socially nimble.
唐纳德·特朗普和他年纪更大的儿子们不是纽约权势界的常客，但伊万卡·特朗普和库什纳在社交方面更为精明。2006年，库什纳买下了《纽约观察家》(The New York Observer)。
She was seated front row at Carolina Herrera shows at New York Fashion Week, walked the red carpet at the Glamour Woman of the Year gala at Carnegie Hall and was a guest at dinners with movie star Hugh Jackman and media heir James Murdoch.
在纽约时装周(New York Fashion Week)上，她被安排坐在卡罗琳娜·海莱娜(Carolina Herrera)时装秀的头排；她受邀在卡内基音乐厅(Carnegie Hall)的年度魅力女性(Glamour Woman of the Year)庆典上走红毯；她是电影明星休·杰克曼(Hugh Jackman)和媒体业继承人詹姆斯·默多克(James Murdoch)宴会的座上宾。
When Ivanka and Kushner broke up during their courtship, a reconciliation took place on Rupert Murdoch’s yacht – a rapprochement that was brokered by her good friend Wendi Murdoch, who at the time was still married to Murdoch.
和库什纳在恋爱期间分手后，两人在伊万卡的好友邓文迪(Wendi Murdoch)的撮合下，在鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)的游艇上和好——当时邓还是默多克的妻子。
Soon, Ivanka converted to Judaism and got married to Kushner at Bedminster, her father’s private golf club in New Jersey, wearing a Vera Wang dress, as a Getty photographer snapped away. They have since had three children.
不久之后，伊万卡改信犹太教，和库什纳在新泽西州贝德明斯特她父亲最喜欢的私人高尔夫俱乐部举办了婚礼。她身穿Vera Wang婚纱，盖帝图像公司(Getty)的一名摄影师为他们拍照。他们后来生了三个孩子。
As with many people eager to move up the New York social ladder, the couple engaged in philanthropic endeavors. But they didn’t leave strong footprints. Indeed, to look at Trump’s charitable deeds is to find echoes of her father’s much-chronicled pattern of claiming a lot while giving just a little.
和很多渴望在纽约社交界往上爬的人一样，这对夫妻也参与慈善活动。不过，他们并没有留下深刻印记。事实上，看看伊万卡的慈善记录，你会发现一个跟他父亲一直以来的名声相符的规律：声称要捐很多，实际上只捐一点。
In 2010, she became a founding partner of the U.N. Foundation Girl Up initiative and then showcased her involvement on the Trump Organization’s website, where it remains today as the first of just three outside causes the family supports, along with the New York City Police Foundation and the Police Athletic League.
2010年，她成为联合国基金会(U.N. Foundation)Girl Up项目的联合创始人，而后在特朗普集团的网站上展示她的参与。到目前为止，那依然是整个家族支持的仅有的三项外部事业中的第一个，另外两项分别是纽约市警察基金会(New York City Police Foundation)和警察运动联盟(Police Athletic League)。
Trump’s main contribution was to post a promotional link to her fine-jewelry collection, where she sold a Girl Up bracelet, with part of the sales going to the initiative.
伊万卡的主要贡献是发布了一个她的高级珠宝系列的推广链接，系列中包括一款Girl Up手链，其销售所得部分捐给该项目。