The tormented yet indissoluble relationship between Yves Saint Laurent and his life and business partner, Pierre Bergé, is the governing narrative of Jalil Lespert’s “Yves Saint Laurent,” a biopic about that French fashion designer that opens in New York on June 25. But the life of Saint Laurent, who died in 2008, can also be traced through a parallel narrative: that of the clothes he designed. Between his first collection in 1957 and his retirement in 2002, he changed the way modern women dressed, often prefiguring social change by bringing street and exotic influences to conventional wear, and showing women as newly powerful figures in trousers, trench coats and tuxedos.
加里·勒斯珀特(Jalil Lespert)导演的关于法国时装设计师伊夫·圣·洛朗(Yves Saint Laurent)的传记电影《伊夫·圣·洛朗》(Yves Saint Laurent)6月25日在纽约上映。伊夫·圣·洛朗和他的生活和事业伴侣皮埃尔·贝尔热(Pierre Bergé)痛苦而不可分割的关系是这部电影的主线，但是他的人生还可以通过另一个并行的线索追溯——他设计的服装。圣·洛朗2008年去世。从1957年的第一个系列到2002年退休，他改变了现代女性的着装方式，经常通过把街头时尚和异国风情融入传统服饰来预示社会变迁，展示出穿长裤、短风衣和无尾晚礼服的强势新女性形象。
All of which meant that the costume design for “Yves Saint Laurent” (not to be confused with another feature, “Saint Laurent,” that had its premiere at Cannes last month) was no ordinary task. Most of the clothes shown in this film were original pieces, lent by the Pierre Bergé-Yves Saint Laurent Foundation, which had white-gloved representatives on set at all times to ensure that the clothes remained pristine and unaltered. In a reversal of the usual procedure, the models had to be cast to fit the clothes. Mr. Lespert; the costume designer Madeline Fontaine; and Sandrine Tinturier, head of conservation at the foundation, talked to Roslyn Sulcas about key fashion moments in the film, and the social and cultural importance of the designs. These are excerpts from the conversations.
所有这些意味着《伊夫·圣·洛朗》（不要和上个月在戛纳首映的另一部故事片《圣·洛朗》[Saint Laurent]混淆）的服装设计绝不是普通的任务。这部电影中的大部分服装是从皮埃尔·贝尔热-伊夫·圣·洛朗基金会借来的原始服装，戴着白手套的代表们一直在片场确保这些服装保持原样，未被改动。和通常的做法相反，这部电影是根据服装来选模特的。勒斯珀特、服装设计师玛德琳·方丹(Madeline Fontaine)、基金会的保管主管桑德里娜·坦蒂里耶(Sandrine Tinturier)与罗斯林·索尔卡斯(Roslyn Sulcas)谈论电影中的几个重要时尚时刻以及这些设计的社会、文化意义。下面是对话节选。
1976: THE BALLETS RUSSES
1976年：俄罗斯芭蕾舞团(The Ballets Russes)
JALIL LESPERT For me, this is Saint Laurent’s best collection, and in the film, it’s the apotheosis of his career. It’s also when he is at his lowest personally, and when he recovers his relationship with Bergé again. We only show three fashion shows in the film, and each one tells us something about a moment in this relationship. The foundation has most of the originals from this collection, and it was tough to choose. I wanted to show this vision of the Orient: the colors, the gold, the warmth. It was very touching, because all the foundation people, including Pierre Bergé, were there, and many of the younger ones had never seen a real Saint Laurent show. To see those clothes take life again felt like something more than cinema. It was very moving.
加里·勒斯珀特：在我看来，这是圣·洛朗最好的系列，在这部电影中，这个系列是他事业的巅峰。也是他处于个人生活的低谷，再次弥补和贝尔热的关系时设计的。我们在片中只展示了三个时装秀，每个时装秀讲述了这段关系中的一个时刻。基金会收藏有这个系列的大部分原始服装，让我们很难取舍。我想展示出这种东方的美感：各种色彩、金色和温暖的感觉。它非常感人，因为基金会的所有人，包括皮埃尔·贝尔热，都到场了。很多年轻人从没见过真正的圣·洛朗时装秀。看着那些衣服复活，感觉我们不只是在拍电影。非常感人。
1971: THE FOX FUR
1971年：狐狸皮毛(The Fox Fur)
MADELINE FONTAINE This is often called the “collection scandale,” because it evoked the era of the Second World War and the Occupation, which people didn’t want to be reminded of. The model was almost nude beneath this coat; it could be a suggestion of prostitutes and collaboration. But I think Saint Laurent saw it as a form of resistance, to continue to be attractive. To keep up appearances in terrible circumstances is a form of combat.
玛德琳·方丹：这个系列经常被称为“引起公愤的系列”，因为它让人想起了“二战”以及法国被占领的那个时代，人们不想回忆起那个时代。这件外衣下的模特几乎是全裸的；它可以被理解为是在暗示妓女和勾结。但是我觉得圣·洛朗把它看作一种抵抗形式，通过继续保持魅力来抵抗。在糟糕的环境中保持体面是一种斗争形式。
SANDRINE TINTURIER This collection was very inspired by Paloma Picasso, who liked to dress from flea markets. At the time, we weren’t at all used to seeing vintage. A couturier was supposed to invent something new.
桑德里娜·坦蒂里耶：这个系列受到了帕洛玛·毕加索(Paloma Picasso)的很大启发，她喜欢从跳蚤市场买衣服。当时我们完全不习惯看到复古的东西。时装设计师被认为应该发明新东西。