Iran’s supreme leader on Thursday challenged two of the United States’ bedrock principles in the nuclear negotiations, declaring that all economic sanctions would have to be lifted on the day any final agreement is signed and that military sites would be strictly off limits to foreign inspectors.
周四，伊朗最高领袖对核谈判中美国的两条基础原则提出了挑战，宣布所有的经济制裁必须在最终协议达成之日解除，而伊朗的军事场所将严格禁止外国监察员涉足。
The assertions by the leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, could be tactical, intended to give both the negotiators and himself some political space to get Iran’s hard-liners accustomed to the framework of the nuclear deal reached a week ago with the United States and other world powers.
最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ali Khamenei)的此番强硬说辞或许是出于策略考虑，意在给自己和谈判人员创造一些政治空间，从而让伊朗的强硬派适应一周前与美国等大国达成的核协议框架。
But they sharply illustrated the difficult hurdles that lie ahead as Secretary of State John Kerry and a large team of diplomats, energy experts and intelligence officials try to reach a June 30 deadline that would assure that Iran could not race for a bomb for at least a decade — and would establish a permanent inspection regime to catch any cheating.
不过，这些话鲜明地揭示了前方面临的重重障碍。以美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)为首的一大批外交官、能源专家和情报官员正试图在6月30日的最后期限前达成协议，借此保证伊朗在至少十年内不会急于制造核弹——并建立一套永久性的监察制度来避免作弊行为。
In his remarks, Mr. Khamenei added several stinging criticisms of Iran’s regional competitor, Saudi Arabia — calling its new leaders “inexperienced youngsters” — a sign of rising regional tensions that could pose another threat to the negotiations, even as diplomats strive to keep the issues on separate tracks. King Salman, the country’s newly installed leader, is 79, though many around him are a generation younger.
在讲话中，哈梅内伊还对伊朗在该地区的竞争对手沙特阿拉伯进行了几项尖锐的批评，称其领导人是“没经验的年轻人”。这是地区冲突加剧的苗头，可能会对谈判构成又一威胁，虽说外交官们在竭力将不同议题隔离开来。沙特新上任的国王萨勒曼(Salman)现年79岁，不过他身边有不少幕僚属于年轻一代。
The developing civil war in Yemen is fast becoming a major source of regional instability, drawing in a United States-backed Saudi Arabia on one side and Iran on the other, and leading Mr. Kerry to warn Tehran this week to back off.
演化之中的也门内战正在快速成为地区动荡的一大来源，伊朗与拥有美国支持的沙特阿拉伯已卷入其中，分别支持一方。这导致克里本周发出警告，要求德黑兰停止干涉行动。
Ayatollah Khamenei’s comments also provided a new round of ammunition to the deal’s many congressional critics. “As each new day reveals a new disagreement, it’s increasingly clear that Iran, in fact, failed to reach agreement with the United States and its partners on a political framework that addresses all parameters of a comprehensive agreement,” said one of the most persistent critics, Senator Mark Kirk, Republican of Illinois. “At best, Iran agreed to disagree with the United States on key nuclear weapons-related issues.”
哈梅内伊的言论还为批评这项协议的许多美国议员提供了新弹药。“随着每一天都揭示出新的分歧，越来越清晰的一点是，伊朗实际上未能与美国及其盟友达成可以满足一个全面协议所有参数的政治框架，”来自伊利诺伊州的共和党参议员马克·柯克(Mark Kirk)说。他一直对协议批评有加，属于最执着的那批人。“至多可以说，伊朗同意与美国在与核武相关的议题上求同存异。”
The comments marked the first time Ayatollah Khamenei has discussed the framework that emerged from the nuclear talks last week in Lausanne, Switzerland. His pronouncements are considered vital because they shape the “red lines” for Iranian negotiators, though they have often showed considerable flexibility in working out details that seem to adhere to his literal meaning while still accommodating some Western demands.
哈梅内伊此次讲话是他首次讨论上周在瑞士洛桑进行的核谈判达成的框架。他的声明被外界视为至关重要，因为这划定了伊朗谈判人员的“红线”。不过，他们在探讨细节问题时常常显示出不小的灵活性，能让这些地方看起来既与哈梅内伊的言辞保持一致，又能符合西方的一些要求。
For example, he had previously required that no nuclear facilities could be closed, but under the framework accord one of them — Fordo, a deep underground enrichment site — is being converted to a research center where fissile material is banned. Another, a heavy-water reactor, is being redesigned to prevent it from making bomb-grade plutonium.
比方说，哈梅内伊之前要求，决不允许核设施遭到关闭。不过，按照框架协议的规定，其中一处——福尔道的地下铀浓缩厂——将被改造为研究中心，并禁用裂变材料。还有一处重水反应堆将重新设计，为的是阻止其生产核弹级别的钚。
On Tuesday night the director of the C.I.A., John O. Brennan, said he believed Ayatollah Khamenei had been persuaded, over the past two years, that an accord was necessary to avoid an economic free fall in Iran. But the ayatollah himself said Thursday that he saw no need to make a clear pronouncement on the deal because no signed agreement yet existed.
周二晚间，中央情报局(CIA)局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)表示，他相信哈梅内伊在过去两年间已被说服，要想避免伊朗经济一落千丈，有必要达成协议。不过，哈梅内伊本人周四称，他觉得没有必要对协议进行明确表态，因为还不存在已经签定的协议。
“There was no need to take a position,” he said. “The officials are saying that nothing has been done yet and nothing is obligatory. I neither agree nor disagree.”
“没必要表明立场，”他说。“相关官员的说法是还没有做任何事情，也没有什么是强制性的。我既不同意也不反对。”
But he emphasized his longstanding position about the sanctions, saying that they “should be lifted all together on the same day of the agreement, not six months or one year later.”
不过，他强调了自己关于制裁问题的长期立场，宣称它们“应当在协议的当天全部解除，而不是什么半年一年后。”
He added, “If lifting of sanctions is supposed to be connected to a process, then why do we negotiate?”
他还反问道，“假如解除制裁要跟进程挂钩，那我们为什么要去谈判呢？”
The Iranian president, Hassan Rouhani, who spoke at a different event on Thursday, echoed the supreme leader’s remarks but with a potentially crucial difference, saying the sanctions have to be lifted on the day a deal is put in place, potentially months after a signed agreement.
同样在周四，伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)在另一场合发表了演讲，与哈梅内伊的说辞类似，但有一处可能存在关键差异。他表示，制裁必须在协议生效的当天得以解除，而这或许会是协议签署的几个月后。
“We will not sign any agreement unless all economic sanctions are totally lifted on the first day of the implementation of the deal,” Mr. Rouhani said during a ceremony for Iran’s nuclear technology day, which celebrates the country’s nuclear achievements.
“除非协议执行当天就完全解除所有的经济制裁，否则我们决不签署任何协议，”鲁哈尼在伊朗核技术节的庆典上说。这一节日是为了庆祝该国在核领域取得的成就。
While the June 30 deadline is still months away, the ayatollah’s comments pose some significant potential challenges to Mr. Kerry and his negotiating team.
虽说距离6月30日的期限还有几个月，但哈梅内伊的言论对克里及其谈判团队构成了巨大的潜在挑战。
Mr. Kerry and President Obama have been saying that sanctions would be suspended in phases, as Iran complies with its obligations. That is critical to American leverage in making sure that Iran follows through on its commitments to vastly reduce its uranium stockpile — a process that will take months, if not longer — and decommissions centrifuges, placing them in storage.
克里和奥巴马总统一直以来的说辞是，制裁的中止将有一个过程，根据伊朗履行义务的情况来分阶段进行。对美国而言，这是保障伊朗履行承诺的重要筹码。这些承诺需要包括对铀储备的大幅削减——这一过程起码要花上好几个月的时间——以及关停并封存一定量的离心机。
Moreover, suspending sanctions is a complex process. Mr. Obama can suspend some of the United States sanctions with the stroke of a pen, but actually terminating them would require congressional action — almost impossible to imagine in an atmosphere in which Congress is threatening new sanctions.
此外，中止制裁是一个颇为复杂的过程。奥巴马纵然可以一笔勾销美国施加的制裁，但要在现实中解除制裁则需要国会采取行动——在国会正威胁施加新制裁的情况下，这一点几乎难以想象。
Other sanctions are based on United Nations Security Council resolutions. Mr. Kerry said in Lausanne last week that under a final deal, if one is reached, a new set of resolutions would be passed, ending many of the sanctions but keeping proliferation controls in place.
其他制裁依据的是联合国安全理事会的决议。上周在洛桑，克里表示，如果能达成最终协议，就会通过一组新的决议，解除其中的许多制裁，但会保留核不扩散方面的内容。
Even if sanctions are legally eliminated, major corporate players may initially be reluctant to do business in Iran. Banks have been heavily fined for violations and would want assurances about the new rules. Investors may fear that sanctions could “snap back” if there is a dispute between Iran and the West, leaving their investments stranded.
就算合法解除了制裁，各大企业也可能会在初始阶段不愿去伊朗做生意。曾因违反制裁规定而遭受重罚的银行将会希望在新规则方面得到一定的保障。投资者或许会担心，倘若伊朗与西方之间发生争执，制裁会“即刻恢复”，使得他们的投资打水漂。
Mr. Khamenei may have thrown another new factor into the equation by suggesting there was plenty of time to consider a deal and review the actions of opponents, and said the deadline of June 30 was in no way sacred.
哈梅内伊可能还给谈判增添了一个新的因素。他指出还有许多的时间来考虑协议并评估对方的行为，并称6月30日的期限决非不容更改。