AMMAN, Jordan — When relatives learned Tuesday night that the Islamic State had released a video showing the death of a Jordanian fighter pilot, First Lt. Moaz al-Kasasbeh, they tried to keep it from his mother, Issaf, and his wife, Anwar. They switched off the television and tried to wrest a smartphone out of his wife’s hand, but she had already seen a mobile news bulletin.
约旦安曼——本周二晚上，当约旦战斗机飞行员莫阿兹·卡萨斯贝(Moaz AL-Kasasbeh)中尉的亲属得知，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)公布了一段他被处死的视频时，他们努力不让他的母亲伊萨芙(Issaf)和妻子安沃尔(Anwar)知道这件事。他们关掉了电视，并试图从安沃尔手中夺走智能手机，但她已经看到了一条移动新闻消息。
Married only six months, Anwar ran crying into the street, calling her husband’s name and saying, “Please God, let it not be true.” Issaf fell to the floor screaming, pulled her head scarf off and started tearing at her hair.
两人结婚刚刚半年，安沃尔哭着跑到街上，呼喊着丈夫的名字，说“神啊，请不要让这事是真的。”伊萨芙尖叫着倒在地上，摘下头巾，开始撕扯自己的头发。
That was even before they knew how he had been killed. No one dared let them know right away that Lieutenant Kasasbeh’s tormentors had apparently burned him alive inside a cage, a killing that was soon described as the most brutal in the group’s bloody history.
这还是在她们知道他被杀害的方式之前。没有人敢让她们知道，卡萨斯贝被关在了一个笼子里，凶手似乎是把他活活烧死的。很快，此次谋杀就被描述为伊斯兰国血腥历史上最残酷的一起。
Only a few minutes earlier, Anwar Kasasbeh had been laughing at the memory of her husband’s delight when he discovered that her family kept rabbits in their home; after they married, her parents gave them the rabbits to take care of.
就在几分钟前，安沃尔还在笑容满面地回忆丈夫的往事：当他得知她的家人在家中养了兔子的时候，表现得很开心；两人结婚后，安沃尔的父母就把兔子交给他们照顾。
“It was so funny, he was so happy about those rabbits,” Anwar told a visiting reporter about her 26-year-old husband. “He told me how he always wanted rabbits.”
“这太好玩了，他非常喜欢那些兔子，”安沃尔对前来采访的记者谈起26岁的丈夫。“他对我说，他一直都想养兔子。”
The video, with its references to the Islamic State’s punishment of nations like Jordan that joined the American-led coalition against it, appeared to be an attempt to cow the Arab and other states that have agreed to battle the militants in Syria. So far, it appeared to have had the opposite effect in Jordan, which suggested its resolve had been stiffened. But the capture of the pilot had already hurt the coalition, with United Arab Emirates suspending its own airstrikes in December and demanding the group improve its search and rescue efforts for captured members.
该视频称，这是对约旦等国在美国的领导下一起打击伊斯兰国的惩罚，似乎意在吓退阿拉伯国家和那些同意与叙利亚武装分子开战的其他国家。迄今为止，它似乎在约旦产生了相反的效果，该国表示已经坚定了打击伊斯兰国的决心。但这位飞行员被俘给这个联盟造成了不利影响，阿联酋去年12月暂停参与空袭，要求联盟改善搜索和援救被俘人员的努力。
The release of the video came after weeks of growing anxiety in Jordan, as the country’s leaders tried desperately to win the release of Lieutenant Kasasbeh, a member of an important tribe and the first fighter for the coalition bombing the Islamic State to be captured. Their attempts became more complicated late last month when the Islamic State, also called ISIS or ISIL, suddenly entangled the pilot’s fate with that of a Japanese man it held hostage, demanding that Jordan release a would-be suicide bomber on death row in exchange for him.
视频发布之前的数周里，焦虑的情绪在约旦越积越高，该国领导人竭力争取卡萨斯贝获释。卡萨斯贝是一个重要部落的成员，也是联军轰炸伊斯兰国行动中第一个被俘的飞行员。上个月下旬，他们的营救行动变得更加复杂起来，因为伊斯兰国（也被称为ISIS或ISIL）突然把这名飞行员和一个日本男性人质的命运联系在一起，要求约旦释放一个打算进行自杀式炸弹袭击的死囚，来交换这名人质。
If Jordan failed to do so by last Thursday, they said, Lieutenant Kasasbeh would be killed. Jordanian officials expressed willingness to bargain — a major concession to the militants — but refused to release the would-be bomber until they received proof that the pilot was alive.
伊斯兰国说，如果约旦到上周四还没有交换人质，卡萨斯贝就会被处死。约旦官员表示愿意商量——这是对伊斯兰国做出的重大让步——但表示在收到该飞行员还活着的证据之前，不能释放那名死囚。
On Tuesday, Jordanian officials said they learned the pilot had actually been killed Jan. 3, suggesting their caution was justifiable. They did not, however, explain where they got the information from.
本周二，约旦官员说，他们获悉该飞行员其实已经在1月3日遭到杀害，这表明他们的谨慎是有理由的。但是，他们没有提及消息来源。
Even by ISIS standards, the latest propaganda video was particularly gruesome. The footage alternates images of the pilot while he was alive with segments showing the rubble of destroyed buildings and the burned bodies of Syrians allegedly killed in coalition airstrikes. Islamic State members took to Twitter to applaud the pilot’s death, calling it an eye for an eye.
即使按照ISIS的标准来看，最新发布的这段宣传视频也极其恐怖。镜头交替显示该飞行员在世时的图像，以及被摧毁的建筑物废墟和叙利亚人被烧焦的尸体，据称这些是联军空袭导致的惨状。伊斯兰国成员在Twitter上为这名飞行员被处死叫好，称这是以牙还牙。
At the end of the 22-minute video, an ISIS fighter sets a powder fuse alight as Lieutenant Kasasbeh watches, his clothes drenched in fuel. The flames race into the cage and engulf him. The camera lingers, showing close-ups of his agony, before concluding with pictures of what the Islamic State claimed were other Jordanian pilots and the offer of a reward of 100 gold coins for whoever kills one of them.
在这段22分钟视频的结尾处，一个ISIS武装人员当着卡萨斯贝的面引燃了火药导火线。卡萨斯贝的衣服上浸透了燃料，火焰窜入笼中，吞没了他。摄像头拍摄了他痛苦表情的特写。视频最后展示了一些图片，伊斯兰国声称这是其他约旦飞行员的照片，杀死其中任何一人都可以获得100枚金币的奖励。
Jordan’s military on Tuesday vowed to avenge the pilot’s death, and Jordan’s King Abdullah II planned to cut short a trip to Washington, returning by Wednesday, according to Jordanian media.
约旦媒体报道，约旦军方本周二誓言要为该飞行员之死复仇，约旦国王阿卜杜拉二世则计划缩短在华盛顿的行程，于本周三回国。
“The blood of our hero martyr Moaz Kasasbeh will not go for nothing,” said Mamdouh al Ameri, a spokesman for the Jordanian military. “And the revenge will be equal to what happened to Jordan.” The spokesman did not specify what was meant by that threat.
“我们英勇的烈士莫阿兹·卡萨斯贝的血不会白流，”约旦军方发言人马姆杜·阿默里(Mamdouh al Ameri)说。“约旦会进行同等程度的复仇。”这位发言人没有具体说明这个威胁的意思。
Jordan and the UAE are among several Arab countries taking part in American-led air raids against ISIS positions in Syria; two other Arab states, plus Iraq, are members of the coalition in other capacities.
针对伊斯兰国在叙利亚占领区的空袭行动由美国领导，约旦和阿联酋等几个阿拉伯国家参与；另外两个阿拉伯国家以及伊拉克参加了该联盟的其他行动。
Lieutenant Kasasbeh was allegedly shot down in his F-16 fighter bomber on Dec. 24 during an air operation against ISIS positions not far from their stronghold of Raqqa in northern Syria.
据称卡萨斯贝的F-16战斗轰炸机在12月24日的空袭行动中被击落，坠机地点靠近伊斯兰国在叙利亚北部占领区拉卡的据点。
He cut a dashing figure in uniform, with green eyes, black hair, and a slim build, and he had a significant social media following.
绿眼睛、黑头发、身材修长的卡萨斯贝穿着制服的形象十分迷人，在社交媒体上有众多仰慕者。