WASHINGTON — Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq is using his first official visit to Washington this week to pursue billions of dollars in loans and international assistance as his government struggles with plunging oil prices and a yawning budget deficit.
华盛顿——伊拉克总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)将利用本周首次正式访问华盛顿的机会，寻求数十亿美元的贷款及国际援助，他的政府正备受油价暴跌和巨大预算赤字的煎熬。
Mr. Abadi, who arrived here on Monday night, has a full agenda, including a meeting on Tuesday with President Obama. But a major priority is laying the groundwork for financial support to help the Iraqi government as it struggles to take back territory from the Islamic State.
阿巴迪于周一晚抵达华盛顿，他的日程排得很满，其中包括周二与美国总统奥巴马的会晤。然而，议事日程上一个主要事项是为争取资金支持打下基础，为伊拉克政府从伊斯兰国(Islamic State)夺回被占领土的斗争提供帮助。
The prime minister plans to meet on Thursday with Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, and with Jim Yong Kim, the president of the World Bank. He also plans to meet with senior executives from oil companies and international banks, including Citibank and Deutsche Bank.
阿巴迪总理计划在周四与国际货币基金组织总裁克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)、及世界银行行长金辰勇分别举行会晤。他还计划与来自石油公司、和包括花旗银行和德意志银行在内的国际银行的高级管理人员见面。
Iraq is facing a budget deficit this year of $22 billion, a sizable gap in a total budget of $105 billion. Oil revenue, which accounts for a vast majority of government income, has declined at the same time that the Iraqi government is facing the challenge of restoring essential services and rebuilding towns and cities damaged in the fighting against the Islamic State.
伊拉克今年面临220亿美元（约合1366亿元人民币）的预算赤字，这对该国1050亿美元的财政预算来说，是一个相当大的缺口。占政府收入绝大部分的石油收入一直在下降，而与此同时，伊拉克政府面临着重建在与伊斯兰国作战中受损坏的乡镇和城市、恢复基本服务的挑战。
Iraqi officials are counting on substantial international support. That includes the ability to draw on more than $2.4 billion in the currencies of some of the strongest members of the International Monetary Fund and $2 billion in assistance from the World Bank.
伊拉克官员指望得到大量的国际支持。包括从国际货币基金组织一些最强大成员国得到相当于240亿美元的货币，以及从世界银行得到20亿美元的援助。
Iraq would also like to obtain substantial loan guarantees from the Export-Import Bank of the United States to finance the purchase of Boeing planes for Iraqi Airways.
伊拉克还希望获得来自美国进出口银行的大笔贷款担保，以资助伊拉克航空公司购买波音公司的飞机。
Mr. Abadi, who became prime minister in September, has appealed for economic support before. In a December meeting in Brussels, he asked for international help in rebuilding towns and cities that his government hoped to wrest from the control of the Islamic State.
阿巴迪于去年九月担任总理，他以前寻求过经济支持。在去年12月的布鲁塞尔会议上，他曾呼吁得到国际援助，以重建伊拉克政府从伊斯兰国手中夺回的乡镇和城市。
Secretary of State John Kerry said at the time that he expected Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich Arab states to provide most of the money, though he indicated that the United States would contribute. It is unclear what headway has been made toward lining up donors.
美国国务卿约翰·克里当时曾说，他期望沙特等石油资源丰富的阿拉伯国家提供资金的大部分，但他表示，美国也会出一些资金。目前还不清楚在争取捐助者方面取得了什么进展。
During his visit to Washington, Mr. Abadi is expected to renew his call for humanitarian assistance for newly reclaimed population centers and for the large numbers of Iraqis who have been displaced by the fighting. Mr. Abadi may also reiterate a request he made at a January meeting in London for Western allies to provide weapons on credit.
预计在访问华盛顿期间，阿巴迪将继续发出人道主义援助的呼吁，以帮助新收复的人口中心、以及因战乱而流离失所的大批伊拉克人。阿巴迪也许会重申他在一月份伦敦召开的一个会议上提出的请求，希望西方盟国能赊账提供武器。
Mr. Abadi’s trip comes at a pivotal moment. After retaking Tikrit, Saddam Hussein’s hometown, with the help of American airstrikes, Iraq faces important questions about the course of the campaign against the Islamic State, the scale of the American effort in Iraq over the next year, and how to handle Iran’s military role in training and advising Shiite militias.
阿巴迪此行处于一个关键时刻。在美国空袭的帮助下夺回了萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)的家乡提克里特之后，伊拉克面临着几个重大问题，包括如何进一步推进与伊斯兰国的战斗，美国明年为伊拉克付出什么规模的努力，以及如何处理在培训和指导什叶派民兵上伊朗的军事作用等问题。
Mr. Obama will be looking to see if Mr. Abadi is making good on his pledge to forge an inclusive multisectarian government. And Mr. Abadi will be looking to gauge how much support he may get from the Obama administration.
奥巴马要看看阿巴迪是否有履行他建立一个多教派包容性政府承诺的迹象。阿巴迪将寻找他可能会从奥巴马政府得到多少支持的口径。
“The prime minister wants to thank the Americans but at the same time understand the scale of support he will acquire,” said an Iraqi official, who insisted on anonymity because he was discussing diplomacy between the two countries.
“总理要感谢美国人，但同时希望了解他所能得到的支持的规模，”一位伊拉克官员说，因为他在讨论这两个国家之间的外交事务，他要求不具名。
Mr. Abadi plans to meet with Mr. Kerry and Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter. He will also see the House speaker, John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio; the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky; and other ranking lawmakers. He will appear at a think tank and a U.S. Chamber of Commerce reception, and give a series of interviews.
阿巴迪计划与克里和国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特( Ashton B. Carter)见面。他还将会晤众议院议长、俄亥俄州共和党人约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)，参议院多数党领袖、肯塔基州共和党人米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)，以及其他高级国会议员。他还将到访一个智库，出席美国商会的一个招待会，并接受一系列的采访。