TEHRAN, Iran — A regional passenger plane assembled in Iran crashed Sunday while taking off from the capital, killing 39 and injuring another nine onboard, according to a senior transportation official and state media.
伊朗德黑兰——周日，一架伊朗小型客机在德黑兰附近机场起飞时坠毁。据伊朗国家媒体和一名伊朗交通部门高级官员，目前事故已造成机上39人死亡，九人受伤。
The IrAn-140 operated by domestic carrier Sepahan Air crashed in a residential area near Tehran's Mehrabad airport. State TV said the plane's tail struck the cables of an electricity tower before it hit the ground and burst into flames. The official IRNA news agency said the plane suffered an engine failure before it went down.
伊朗塞伯汉航空公司(Sepahan Air)的这架安-140型(IrAn-140)飞机是在德黑兰梅赫拉巴德(Mehrabad)机场附近的居民区坠毁的。伊朗国家电视台称该飞机坠毁前机尾撞上了一座电力塔的电缆。据伊朗国家新闻社IRNA报道，飞机坠落前遭遇了一次发动机故障。
Deputy Minister of Transportation Ahmad Majidi provided the casualty figures in an appearance on state TV. The channel earlier had reported that all 48 people onboard had died.
伊朗交通部副部长艾哈迈德·马吉迪(Ahmad Majidi)在伊朗国家电视台上提供了以上伤亡信息。该电视台此前称，机上48人已全部遇难。
The crash happened shortly after the plane took off at 9:20 a.m. local time (0450 GMT), bound for the town of Tabas in eastern Iran.
飞机于当地时间早上9点20分起飞后不久发生事故。飞机原定飞往伊朗东部城镇塔巴斯(Tabas)。
Eyewitness Hassan Molla said he heard a roaring sound as the plane came in low overhead, one wing tilting.
目击者哈桑·莫拉(Hassan Molla)称，飞机低空掠过，机身向一翼倾斜，发出巨大轰鸣。
"There was no smoke or anything. It was absolutely sound and in good condition" before the crash and what appeared to be multiple explosions, he said.
飞机坠地并发生多次爆炸之前“没有冒烟或其它问题”，莫拉说，“它看起来绝对正常而且状况良好”。
Members of the Revolutionary Guard worked to secure the crash site and security and rescue personnel combed the wreckage as onlookers gathered shortly after the plane went down. The plane's mangled but largely intact tail section was torn from the fuselage and came to rest on a nearby road.
坠机后不久，现场就聚集了围观人群，伊朗革命卫队成员迅速封锁了现场维护治安，相关抢救人员也立刻到达了现场。飞机机尾部分脱离了机身，但仍相对完好地倒在附近的路边。
State TV said the bodies of some of the victims were so badly burned that they could not be identified. They will be handed over to relatives after DNA tests are carried out to determine their identities, it said.
伊朗国家电视台称部分遇难者尸体被大火严重损毁以至无法识别，会在DNA鉴定确认身份后交还家属。
The IrAn-140 is a twin-engine turboprop plane based on Ukrainian technology that is assembled under license in Iran. It is a version of the Antonov An-140 regional plane and can carry up to 52 passengers.
“安-140”是一种双引擎涡轮螺旋桨飞机，依托于乌克兰技术生产，在伊朗组装。该飞机是安托诺夫安-140机型(Antonov An-140)的一种，最多可搭载52名乘客。