VIENNA — A yearlong effort to reach an enduring accord with Iran to dismantle large parts of its nuclear infrastructure fell short on Monday, forcing the United States and its allies to declare a seven-month extension, but with no clear indication of why they think they can ultimately overcome the political obstacles that have so far blocked a deal.
维也纳——为了与伊朗达成一项持久协议，让其拆除大量核基础设施，相关各方进行了一年的努力。然而，这一努力于周一失败，迫使美国及其盟友宣布谈判延长七个月，但没有明显迹象表明，他们为何认为最终能克服相关政治障碍。正是这些障碍导致当前无法达成协议。
Secretary of State John Kerry told reporters that a series of “new ideas surfaced” in the last several days of talks. He added that “we would be fools to walk away,” because a temporary agreement curbing Iran’s program would remain in place while negotiations continued. In return, Iran will receive another $5 billion in sanctions relief, enabling it to recover money frozen abroad — something that is likely to add to the threat of new sanctions from the newly-elected Republican Congress.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)告诉记者，最后几天的谈判中出现了一系列“新思路”。他接着说，“我们要是走开就是傻子”，因为在继续进行谈判期间，遏制伊朗核计划的临时协议依然有效。作为交换，伊朗将再获得涉及50亿美元（约合310亿元人民币）的制裁缓解措施，使其能收回被冻结的海外资金——这一点可能会导致共和党掌握的国会进一步威胁要采取新的制裁措施。
Frustrations were visible on both sides. American officials said they remained hopeful a deal could still be worked out, But they worried that Iran's negotiating team, and Iran's president, Hassan Rouhani, who came to office on the promise of obtaining a nuclear deal, did not seem to have the latitude to make the kind of political decisions necessary — and they could not see how that would change.
双方的失望都颇为明显。美国官员表示依然对达成协议抱有希望，但他们担心，伊朗的谈判团和上台时承诺达成核协议的伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)，似乎没有做出这种政治决策所需的自由度。他们也看不出这一点会如何改变。
Mr. Rouhani, for his part, went on national television with a mixed message of reassurance and defiance, telling Iranians that eventually there would be a deal that ended sanction, but also casting the outcome in a victory narrative, saying “the centrifuges are spinning and will never stop.”
鲁哈尼在国家电视台上传达出了复杂的讯息，既有让外界放心的成分，又有挑衅的成分。他告诉国民，最终会达成一项结束制裁的协议，但又以一种胜利者的口吻对结果进行了预测，称“正在运转的离心机永远不会停下来”。
But the fundamental problem remained: Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has yet to signal that he is prepared to make the kind of far-reaching cuts in Iran’s enrichment capability that would be required to seal an accord. And it is unclear that his view will change before a March 1 deadline for reaching a political agreement, the first phase in the seven-month extension.
但根本问题依然存在：伊朗最高领导人阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)尚未表示已准备对伊朗铀浓缩能力进行深度的削减。要达成协议，这种削减是必需的。此外，尚不清楚在达成政治协议的最后期限3月1日之前，他的观点是否会发生改变。明年3月1日之前，是七个月延长期限的第一阶段。
“Is it possible in the end we won’t reach an agreement?” Mr. Kerry said in a news conference hours before the deadline on Monday night. “Absolutely.” But he also indicated that the United States and Iran, along with Britain, France, Germany, China and Russia would only then turn to the question of whether a diplomatic path that President Obama has so long insisted upon can succeed.
“有没有可能我们最终无法达成协议？”克里周一夜里在离之前的最后期限仅剩几个小时的新闻发布会上说。“当然有。”但他也表示，只有到那时，美国和伊朗，以及英国、法国、德国、中国和俄罗斯才会转而质疑，奥巴马总统长期坚持的外交途径能否取得成功。
“These talks are not going to get easier just because we extend them,” Mr. Kerry acknowledged. “They are tough, they’ve been tough, and they are going to stay tough.”
“这些谈判不会仅仅因为我们延长了期限，就变得更容易，”克里承认。“它们很艰难，一直很难，将来也依然会很难。”
Officials said little about the new approaches they were now exploring with Iran, other than to indicate that “experts” — presumably at the Energy Department’s national laboratories — would be studying them to see if they, in combination with other steps, would result in at least a year’s warning if Iran raced for a weapon. That is the standard that the United States has set.
对于正在和伊朗一起探索的新方式，美国官员没有透露多少细节，但却表示相关“专家”——大概是能源部(Energy Department)下属的国家实验室的人员——将会对这些方式进行研究，看看如果伊朗快速研发核武器，这些方式连同其他措施，会不会至少在一年的时间里起到警告作用。这是美国制定的标准。
That suggested the approach involves a combination of Iranian commitments to ship some of its nuclear stockpile to Russia, efforts to disconnect some of the country’s centrifuges in ways that would take considerable time to reverse, and limits on output that could be verified by international inspectors. “It’s a lot of moving parts,” said one European diplomat involved in the discussions, “and the question is what it adds up to.”
这表明，这种方式是多方面因素的综合，包括伊朗要承诺将部分核储备运至俄罗斯；要切断该国的部分离心机，且需要花相当长的时间才能恢复运转；对产出加以限制，且要得到国际核查人员的核实。“有很多部件组成，”参与相关讨论的一名欧洲外交官说，“但问题是，结果会怎样。”
Mr. Kerry went out of his way to compliment the lead Iranian negotiator, Mohammad Javad Zarif, who American officials have described as a creative diplomat who is forced to navigate Iran’s treacherous politics — and uncertain how far the country’s supreme leader will let him go. He and Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, came to power promising an end to the sanctions that have reduced Iran’s oil revenue by roughly 60 percent, crashed its currency and made overseas financial transactions almost impossible.
克里特意称赞了伊朗首席谈判代表穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)。美国官员称扎里夫是一名有创意的外交官，要被迫在变幻莫测的伊朗政坛周旋。尚不确定伊朗最高领袖还能放任他走多远。扎里夫和伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼上台时承诺结束制裁。制裁已导致伊朗石油收入减少约60%，货币崩溃，并使得海外金融交易几乎不可能进行。
But Mr. Zarif was also arguing, to the end here, that the sanctions must be lifted permanently and almost immediately, rather than being suspended, step by step, as President Obama has insisted. When Mr. Obama publicly rejected that approach in an interview broadcast Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” it seemed to drive home the fact that an accord was simply impossible.
但扎里夫也一直在说，要在维也纳达成协议，必须迅速和永久性地取消制裁，而不是像奥巴马坚持的那样，让制裁逐步中止。在ABC周日播出的《本周》(This Week)节目中，奥巴马在接受采访时公开否决了上述可能性。这似乎阐明了一个事实，即双方根本不可能达成协议。
For both President Rouhani and President Obama, the next seven months may be difficult to manage. Opponents of concessions of any kind have been gaining strength in both countries.
对于鲁哈尼和奥巴马来说，未来的七个月可能都是难以掌控的。在各自的国内，反对做出任何让步的势力都在变得越发强大。
Mr. Rouhani has been facing significant opposition to his agenda, and Mr. Zarif was clearly, in the words of one American official, “on a very tight leash” in the last days of the negotiation. He indicated, in private, that he had not been able to win much support for any formulation that would have required Iran to dismantle centrifuges or take other visible steps toward meeting American demands.
鲁哈尼一直面对着针对其议程的严重反对，而且，用一名美国官员的话说，在过去几天的谈判中，扎里夫显然“没有多少自由”。鲁哈尼私下里暗示，任何涉及到伊朗拆除离心机，或采取其他明显步骤来满足美国要求的提议，他都无法在国内赢得多少支持。
Mr. Obama, for his part, will no longer be able to rely on Democratic leaders in the Senate to bottle up legislation that would require new sanctions. “I don’t think Congress is going to sit still,” said Mark Dubowitz, the executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, who has been highly critical of the effort. “There is a fear the administration is being played for time, and there will be a desire to express that in some form of sanctions resolution.”
而奥巴马已经不能指望参议员的民主党领袖来否决要求采取新制裁措施的法案。“我不认为国会会坐视不管，”保卫民主基金会(Foundation for Defense of Democracies)总干事马克·杜博维茨(Mark Dubowitz)说。他一直强烈反对采取新的制裁措施。“有人担心，奥巴马政府是被对方的拖延战术所愚弄，因此将会有人想要通过某种形式的制裁来表达这种担心。”
Mr. Kerry declined to say if President Obama would veto such an effort, saying he was already talking to his former colleagues in Congress. But his negotiating team is already arguing for time for the negotiations to play out, arguing that Iran has far less capability now than it did a year ago, before the interim accord, called the “Joint Plan of Action,” required it to blend down its most potent nuclear fuel — closest to bomb grade -- and to halt the intallation of new centrifuges.
克里拒绝透露奥巴马是否会否决这样的法案，称奥巴马已经在与国会的前同僚谈了话。但他的谈判团队已经在争取时间将谈判进行到底，理由是伊朗目前的核能力要远低于一年前，而临时协议《联合行动计划》(Joint Plan of Action)还没有要求它稀释最强大的核燃料（接近核弹级）并停止安装新离心机。
Opponents look at the same set of facts and argue that a year later , Iran has as much capability as ever to stage a “breakout,” the production of one bomb’s worth of fuel.
面对同样的事实，反对取消制裁的人则认为，伊朗实施“突破”的能力较一年之前没有改变。“突破”即生产相当于一个核弹的燃料。
For many of those opponents — in Iran, in Congress, in Israel and in the Arab states — the result was a relief. The extension had not even been announced when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel celebrated it as the least-bad outcome.
对于许多反对取消制裁的人——在伊朗、国会、以色列和阿拉伯国家——来说，这个结果令人欣慰。延期的决定尚未宣布，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)就已经表示这是所有坏结果中最好的一种。
“No deal is better than a bad deal,” he said to the BBC, hours after speaking with Mr. Kerry by phone. “The right deal that is needed is to dismantle Iran’s capacity to make atomic bombs and only then dismantle the sanctions. Since that’s not in the offing, this result is better, a lot better.”
“没有达成协议总比达成糟糕的协议要好，”在与克里通电话的几个小时后，他对BBC说。“当前所需要的正确协议，是消除伊朗制造核弹的能力，然后才能取消制裁。鉴于伊朗还不能马上消除制造核弹的能力，目前的结果更好，而且要好得多。”
In Iran, the calculus is more complex. With oil prices dropping, the economic damage done by the sanctions is being amplified. But those supporting President Rouhani insisted that the extension did not mean failure, and some argued that extra time works in Iran’s favor.
伊朗的考量包含了更多因素。由于油价的不断下跌，制裁造成的经济损失被放大。但鲁哈尼的支持者坚持认为，延期不代表失败，其中一些人说，延长谈判时间对伊朗有利。
Saeed Laylaz, an economist connected to the government, argued that Mr. Rouhani was managing the country more efficiently than his fiery predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
与政府关系密切的经济学家赛义德·莱拉兹(Saeed Laylaz)说，鲁哈尼对国家的管理，要比暴躁的前任马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德总统(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)更富有成效。