A DUPLEX APARTMENT IN A HISTORIC BUILDING IN CENTRAL ISTANBUL
伊斯坦布尔市中心一座历史建筑内的一套复式公寓
$875,000 
87.5万美元（约合人民币543万元）
This apartment, with stone foundation walls dating to the 1800s and other features of classic Turkish architecture, is in the lively Galata district in central Istanbul. The one-bedroom apartment is one of eight units in a complex called Alaattin Apartments in two adjoining historic buildings that have undergone a two-and-a-half-year renovation.
这套公寓包含了诸如建成于19世纪初的石基墙等土耳其建筑的经典元素。它地处伊斯坦布尔市中心氛围活跃的加拉塔区(Galata)，有一间卧室，是一处名为阿拉丁公寓(Alaattin Apartments)的建筑群内的八套公寓之一。阿拉丁公寓是两座连在一起的历史建筑，已完成了历时两年半的重新整修。
Several of the apartments are on the market at various prices; the entire building could be bought for $8.2 million, said Cindy Uriona, a broker with the Luxurion Real Estate Group in Istanbul, which has the listing. Historic features of the eight-story building, which has a small glass elevator, include a hand-cut marble staircase and pine doors similar to those found in the nearby medieval landmark, Galata Tower.
这里有好几套公寓已经上市，价位各异；据挂牌经纪人、伊斯坦布尔Luxurion房地产集团的经纪人辛蒂·乌里奥娜(Cindy Uriona)表示，整座建筑可以以820万美元（约合人民币5093万元）的价格购买。这座八层的历史建筑有一间小型玻璃电梯，其历史特征包括一座手工切割的大理石楼梯，以及几扇与附近一座中世纪地标建筑加拉塔石塔(Galata Tower)的塔门风格相仿的松木门。
The only apartment with a private entrance, this 2,000-square-foot unit is entered through an original steel door, which has been restored and opens to a dining room. Floors on this level are of antique wide-plank wood, and part of the apartment has handcrafted Turkish vaulted ceilings. Beyond the dining room is a bridge, overlooking the lower level, that leads to an open kitchen, terrace and master bedroom.
本文介绍的公寓，是楼内唯一一套拥有私人入口的住宅单元，面积2000平方英尺（约合186平方米），其入口是建筑原配的钢质门，已经过修缮，可通往餐厅。这一楼层的地板采用仿古宽板木，部分房间采用了手工打造的土耳其拱形天花板。从餐厅再往里走是一座桥，站在桥上可以俯瞰楼下，桥的对面是开放式厨房、露台和主卧。
The kitchen has custom red cabinets and butcher-block countertops; appliances are stainless steel and made by the German company Siemens. A set of French windows off the kitchen lead to the small terrace, which also adjoins the master bedroom. The bedroom has a walk-in closet and a small half-bathroom. The apartment’s furniture is included in the asking price.
厨房里配备了定制的红色橱柜和砧板台面；厨具为不锈钢材质，由德国西门子(Siemens)制造。对开的落地长窗将厨房与小露台相连，小露台又与主卧相邻。卧室里有一间步入式衣橱，及一间无沐浴设施的小卫生间。公寓里的家具价格已包含在要价当中。
Stairs off the bridge, made of original stone found in another part of the building, descend to a lounge, living room and large walk-in closet that leads to a full bathroom. The living room has a small working fireplace carved into the stone walls, built-in bookshelves and a hammock. The bathroom has a restored cast-iron bathtub and shower. Its rustic stone walls are accented with Turkish-style tile that also adorns the countertops.
与桥相连的楼梯，由从公寓楼别处找到的原始石材制成，从楼梯下来可以到达一间休息室，以及客厅和大型步入式衣橱，衣橱通往一间带沐浴设施的全功能卫生间。客厅里配备了一个嵌入石墙、尚在使用的小壁炉，几个嵌入式书架和一张吊床。卫生间里配了一台修复的铸铁浴缸和淋浴喷头。质朴的石墙与土耳其风格的面砖相得益彰，盥洗台面上也装饰着同样风格的面砖。
Just a few steps down the cobblestone street from the apartment’s entrance is the picturesque Crimea Memorial Church, built in the late 1800s. There are various parking lots nearby, but a car is not necessary as there is good access to public transportation, including the metro, buses and a tramway, Ms. Uriona said. Istanbul’s Old City is across the Golden Horn, a few minutes away by tram or 15 minutes on foot, she said.
从公寓门口出来，沿石子路走几步，就能看到于19世纪初的最后几年建成的美丽如画的克里米亚纪念教堂(Crimea Memorial Church)。乌里奥娜表示，附近有好几个停车场，不过没有必要开车，因为这里的公共交通条件很好，交通工具包括地铁、公交车和电车。她说，伊斯坦布尔老城就在金角湾(Golden Horn)对面，坐电车需要几分钟，步行需要15分钟。
Galata is an up-and-coming neighborhood known for its night life, as well as art galleries, cafes, restaurants and boutiques. The international airport is about 25 minutes away by car when there is no traffic, Ms. Uriona said.
加拉塔是一个充满活力的社区，以夜生活为特色；画廊、咖啡馆、餐厅和时装店也很有名。乌里奥娜说，不堵车的时候，从这开车去国际机场大约要25分钟。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概览
The Turkish housing market has cooled down a bit from the torrid pace over the last decade, said N. Alp Sen, a senior manager of transaction advisory services and real estate with Ernst & Young. From 2012 to 2013, prices grew by almost 12 percent, according to a report from the real estate brokerage Knight Frank.
安永会计师事务所(Ernest & Young)负责交易咨询服务和房地产的高级经理N·阿尔普·森(N. Alp Sen)表示，相比此前十年里的火爆行情而言，土耳其房产市场现在已有所降温。根据房地产经纪公司莱坊国际(Knight Frank)发布的一份报告，从2012到2013年，当地房价的涨幅接近12%。
“The pace of growth has slowed down,” Mr. Sen said. “The construction side continues to grow, but the number of apartments sold has been decreasing for some consecutive months.”
“增长的速度已经放缓，”森说，“施工建设仍在增长，但是已售公寓的数量已经连续几个月有所下滑了。”
Several factors, including new value-added tax laws and an anticipated economic cooling in 2014, he said, mean reduced sales volume for both new and resale homes through the end of this year. Home prices will most likely stabilize or fall, he added.
他指出，由于出台了新的增值税法，加上2014年的经济增长预计会放缓，这几个因素意味着，无论是新房还是二手房的销量到年底前都会下滑。住房价格也很可能会趋于稳定或下滑。他补充说。
In general, however, sales of homes in Istanbul remain fairly brisk, particularly among foreign home buyers, who are often attracted to districts like Bahcesehir, Beylikduzu and Sariyer on the outskirts of the city, said Fatih Tuna, the director of the Istanbul office of Spot Blue International Property, an agency based in Britain specializing in Turkish real estate.
不过Spot Blue国际房地产公司伊斯坦布尔办事处的负责人费提·图纳(Fatih Tuna)说，大体上讲，伊斯坦布尔的住房销售依然火爆。外国购房者对这里的房市尤为青睐，他们往往会被巴赫切赛黑(Bahçeşehir)、贝利克度兹(Beylikduzu)和萨勒耶尔(Sariyer)等市郊地区吸引。Spot Blue国际地产公司是专注于土耳其房地产的公司，总部设在英国。
While homes that interest foreign buyers can start as low as about $120 per square foot, apartments in new projects typically cost $370 to $560 per square foot, and can run as high as $930 per square foot in luxury developments with Bosporus views, Ms. Uriona said. Apartments in renovated historic buildings, such as Alaattin Apartments, typically run about $370 to $560 per square foot, she said.
乌里奥娜表示，尽管那些吸引外国买家的住宅价格可能低至每平方英尺120美元（约合每平方米8281元）左右，但新项目的公寓价格通常为每平方英尺370至560美元（约合每平方米25532至38643元）；博斯普鲁斯海峡(Bosporus)观景豪宅的价格更可高达每平方英尺930美元（约合每平方米5776元）。她指出，翻新历史建筑内的公寓价格一般是每平方英尺370至560美元（约合每平方米25532至38643元）。
WHO BUYS IN ISTANBUL
谁在伊斯坦布尔买房
Residents of countries around the Persian Gulf have been some of the biggest home buyers in recent years, said Julian Walker, the director of the London office of Spot Blue. While they tend to seek high-end homes in new developments in Istanbul and other large cities, buyers from European countries are typically looking for summer homes along the Aegean Sea in places like Bodrum, Fethiye and Izmir.
Spot Blue伦敦办事处的负责人朱利安·沃克(Julian Walker)说，近年来，波斯湾沿岸国家的居民是这里最大的买家群体之一。他们物色的房源一般是伊斯坦布尔等大城市新开发的高端住宅，而欧洲买家一般会在博德鲁姆(Bodrum)、费特希耶(Fethiye)、伊兹密尔(Izmir)等爱琴海沿海城市寻找避暑住宅。
BUYING BASICS
购房须知
Sales of Turkish homes are open to residents of about 183 countries, but there are some areas that are off limits to foreigners, typically rural areas or areas near military bases, brokers said.
经纪人透露，土耳其允许大约183个国家的居民在土耳其购买住宅，不过部分地区是禁止外国人买房的，一般在农村地区或靠近军事基地。
Every foreign buyer must obtain written permission from the military; the process, considered a formality, can cost as little as $213 and can take 30 to 60 days, Ms. Uriona said.
乌里奥娜表示，所有外国人买房都必须取得军方的书面许可；一般认为这只是例行公事，费用只要213美元（约合人民币1323元），时间需要30至60天。
Typically, closing costs paid by the buyer, which include the military approval fee, are about 5 percent of the sale price on average-priced homes, Mr. Walker said. Most foreigners buy in cash, because Turkish banks often require as much as 30 percent down at interest rates of at least 7.8 percent, Ms. Uriona said.
一般来说，包括军方审批费在内的交易费用由买家支付，数额大约占住宅售价平均值的5%。大多数外国买家都选择现金支付，因为土耳其银行往往要求卖家支付30%的首付，且利率在7.8%以上。乌里奥娜说。