TEHRAN, Iran — Until this summer, Mohammad Javad Zarif, one of Iran’s most accomplished diplomats, was an outcast, exiled from the government by ultraconservatives for working too closely with the West. Rather than presenting the Iranian case to the world, as he had done so effectively throughout a 35-year diplomatic career, he was spending his days teaching at the Foreign Ministry’s training center on a quiet, leafy campus in North Tehran.
伊朗德黑兰——穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)是伊朗最有成就的外交官之一，在今年夏天之前，他是一枚弃子：由于跟西方合作太过密切，他被极端保守主义者逐出政府。在35年的外交生涯中，扎里夫卓有成效地向世界说明了伊朗的情况，而在遭受冷遇期间，他在德黑兰北部一座安静的、郁郁葱葱的校园里充当外交部培训中心的教书匠。
That changed with the election of the moderate president, Hassan Rouhani, in June. Now, Mr. Zarif is the country’s new foreign minister and seems virtually certain to lead Iran’s delegation in nuclear negotiations with the West — further indications, analysts say, that Mr. Rouhani is serious about reducing tensions with the United States and other Western countries.
这种情况随着温和派的哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)今年6月当选伊朗总统而改变。现在，扎里夫成为了伊朗的新任外交部长，而且几乎肯定会担任伊朗代表团的领导者，与西方进行核谈判—— 分析人士说，这进一步显示了鲁哈尼对缓解伊朗与美国和其他西方国家之间的紧张关系十分重视。
“Mr. Zarif is the new face of a new policy,” said Davoud Hermidas-Bavand, a professor of international relations at Allameh Tabatabaei University in Tehran, who knows Mr. Zarif personally. “Our former foreign policy obviously did not yield any results and was clearly doomed. We need to revise our former methods and soften our stances in order to find a solution to the nuclear problem and reduce the sanctions.”
“扎里夫是代表新政策的新鲜面孔。”达乌德·赫米达斯-巴万德(Davoud Hermidas-Bavand)说。他是德黑兰阿拉梅塔巴塔拜大学(University of Allameh Tabatabai)大学的国际关系教授，跟扎里夫有私交。“我们之前的外交政策显然毫无建树，注定以失败告终。为了给核问题找到一个解决方案，减轻伊朗遭到的制裁，我们需要纠正以前的方法，软化立场。”
Previous negotiations over Iran’s nuclear program have broken down on the West’s insistence that the country’s government first stop enriching uranium, which world powers suspect is a first step to developing nuclear weapons. The Iranians have maintained just as steadfastly that they have the right to enrich uranium for fuel to power reactors and for other peaceful uses. Now, this diplomatic logjam may be giving way, analysts say.
之前关于伊朗核计划的谈判之所以破裂，是因为西方坚持要求伊朗政府首先停止铀浓缩活动，各大国认为那是研发核武器的第一步，而伊朗人也同样坚定地认为他们有权进行铀浓缩活动，以便为反应堆提供燃料，并用于其他和平用途。现在，这种外交僵局有了化解的可能，分析人士说。
“We can be sure that Mr. Zarif — if he gets to handle the nuclear issue — will quickly and officially propose ideas such as Iran ending enrichment up to 20 percent as a compromise,” said François Nicoullaud, a former French ambassador to Tehran who often met with Mr. Zarif.
“我们可以肯定，如果是由扎里夫来处理核问题，他很快就会正式提出一些方案，比如作为让步，伊朗可能会停止纯度至20%的铀浓缩活动。”弗朗索瓦·尼库洛(Francois Nicoullaud)说。他是前法国驻德黑兰大使，曾经常与扎里夫碰面。
If Iran’s leadership has decided to pursue a new policy of easing tensions with the West, and that still remains to be seen, Mr. Zarif would seem the ideal person to carry it out.
如果伊朗领导层已经决定采用新政策来缓和与西方的紧张关系，扎里夫似乎是贯彻这个政策的理想人选。当然，伊朗领导层是否做出了这样的决定仍然有待观察。
For most of the past three decades, Mr. Zarif, 53, has sought to establish a working relationship between Iran and the West. But he has focused particularly on the United States, a country he prefers to call a “rival” nation rather than “the enemy,” the label preferred by Iran’s hard-liners.
扎里夫现年53岁，在过去30年的大部分时间中，他力图在伊朗和西方国家之间建立起一种工作关系。他特别重视伊朗跟美国的关系，他喜欢把美国称作“对手”，而不是像伊朗强硬派那样，称之为“敌国”。
He helped draft the cease-fire ending the bloody Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s, negotiated Iranian intelligence assistance for American forces in Afghanistan after the Sept. 11 attacks and spent years in New York as Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations.
在20世纪80年代，他帮助起草停战协定，结束了血腥的两伊战争。在9·11袭击事件后，他曾就伊朗为美国驻阿富汗军队提供情报支持展开协商，并作为伊朗驻联合国(United Nations)大使在纽约待了几年。
But Mr. Zarif is by no means a westernized Iranian. His wife rarely appears in public, and like other Iranian diplomats, he declines to shake hands with women for religious reasons. In New York, he rarely attended parties or gatherings, the way other diplomats do, saying he was by nature very shy.
但扎里夫绝不是一个西化的伊朗人。他的妻子很少在公共场合露面。像其他伊朗外交官一样，出于宗教原因，扎里夫拒绝与女性握手。在纽约，他很少像其他外交官一样，参加聚会和活动，称自己生性非常腼腆。
In a series of interviews with him in recent years published a month ago and titled “Mr. Ambassador,” Mr. Zarif made clear that he was a proponent of establishing relations with the United States because that was in Iran’s best interests, and not because he had any special affection for the country or doubted Iran’s revolutionary ideals.
最近几年对扎里夫的一系列采访文章在一个月前被合集出版，其标题为《大使先生》(Mr. Ambassador)，扎里夫在里面明确表示，他支持与美国建立关系，因为这符合伊朗的最大利益，而不是因为他对美国抱有特殊感情或怀疑伊朗的革命理想。
“I, due to many reasons, believe that we would lose less by having direct interaction,” he said in a chapter on hypothetical relations between the estranged countries. “Relations with America is a means to be in line with national benefits.” Still, as he mentions in another interview in the series, “those relations can never be friendly.”
扎里夫在一个章节里谈及在关系疏远的美伊之间建立假想关系，他表示，“由于种种原因，我认为，我们通过直接互动可以减少损失。与美国建立关系是一种符合国家利益的手段。”然而，他在该系列的另一次采访中提到，“那种关系绝不会是友好关系。”
He was a member of Mr. Rouhani’s three-man negotiating team in 2003, when Iran struck the only nuclear deal with the West and agreed to suspend enrichment from 2003 to 2005.
他是2003年鲁哈尼的三人谈判小组的成员，当时伊朗与西方国家达成了唯一的核协议，同意在2003年至2005年间，暂停铀浓缩活动。
But that deal ultimately fell apart in acrimony, empowering hard-line factions that effectively sidelined Mr. Zarif and his mentor, Mr. Rouhani, labeling them as sellouts to the West.
但该协议最终在激烈纠纷中彻底破裂，致使强硬派变得更加强大，他们将扎里夫及其导师鲁哈尼推到一边，称二人是亲西方的背叛者。
Both Mr. Rouhani and Mr. Zarif have been calling for “a single foreign policy,” rather than sending out diffuse and conflicting messages and statements. If he is indeed given the nuclear portfolio, Mr. Zarif can be expected to bring this new approach to the negotiations — a far cry from his predecessor, Saeed Jalili, who was known for his endless theoretical debates with his Western counterparts.
鲁哈尼和扎里夫一直提倡采取“单一外交政策”，而不是发布模糊的、矛盾的信息和声明。如果扎里夫确实被任命为首席核谈判代表，外界期待他会采用新策略进行谈判——与他的前任赛义德·贾利利(Saeed Jalili)完全不同，贾利利因与西方代表团不断进行理论辩论而闻名。
But Mr. Zarif can bend only so far, many analysts warn. “Both he and Mr. Rouhani will try hard to solve this matter,” Mr. Nicoullaud said. “But in the end, their faith is in the hands of their Western counterparts. If they do not seize this opportunity, domestic critics will again take them down.”
但很多分析人士警告称，扎里夫只能做出一定让步。“他和鲁哈尼将努力解决这个问题，”尼库洛说。“但最终，他们的信心将由西方谈判代表团决定。如果他们不抓住这次机会，国内的批评人士将再次扳倒他们。”