PARIS — Iran and a group of six world powers completed a deal on Sunday that will temporarily freeze much of Tehran’s nuclear program starting next Monday in exchange for limited relief from Western economic sanctions.
巴黎——周日，伊朗和六个世界大国达成一项协议，根据协议，伊朗将于下周一开始暂停大部分核项目，以换取西方国家对经济制裁的有限减免。
The main elements of the deal, which is to last for six months, were announced in November. But its implementation was delayed as negotiators worked out technical details.
协议有效期为六个月，协议的主要内容已在去年11月公布。但由于谈判代表需要时间商定技术细节，协议的实施被推迟。
The agreement faced opposition from Iranian hard-liners and Israeli leaders, as well as heavy criticism from some American lawmakers, who have threatened to approve further sanctions despite President Obama’s promise of a veto.
该协议遭到伊朗强硬派及以色列领导人的反对，也受到一些美国议员的强烈批评，这些议员曾威胁要批准进一步的制裁举措，尽管奥巴马总统承诺将动用否决权。
It comes as Tehran has sought to expand its influence in the Middle East by providing weapons and sometimes members of its own paramilitary Quds Force to Syria, Bahrain and Yemen, according to interviews with intelligence, military, diplomatic and government officials. However, both the United States and Iran have sought to insulate the nuclear negotiations from the tensions over Iran’s regional policies.
情报、军事、外交及政府官员接受采访时表示，同意签订协议时，伊朗正在向叙利亚、巴林及也门提供武器，有时还向这些国家派遣准军事部队圣城军(Quds Force)士兵，旨在扩大自己在中东地区的影响力。不过，美国和伊朗都一直在努力，保证核谈判不受由伊朗地区政策引发的紧张局势的影响。
The Obama administration hailed the temporary agreement on Sunday as an important step that would halt many of Iran’s nuclear efforts, giving international negotiators time to pursue a more comprehensive and durable agreement that would roll back much of Iran’s program and ensure that it could be used only for peaceful purposes.
周日，奥巴马政府称赞该临时协议迈出了重要一步，将会暂停伊朗的很多核项目，为国际谈判人员达成更全面持久的协议赢得时间。长期协议将限制伊朗的大部分核项目，确保这些项目只能用于和平目的。
Mr. Obama said last month at a conference in Washington that he thought there was at best a “50-50” chance of negotiating such a comprehensive agreement. On Sunday, he said he had “no illusions” that a long-term deal would be reached easily.
奥巴马上个月在华盛顿参加会议时表示，他认为最多只有“一半”的机会通过谈判达成全面长期协议。周日，奥巴马表示他对轻易达成长期协议“不抱幻想”。
Secretary of State John Kerry, who came to Paris for an international meeting on the civil war in Syria, also acknowledged that the next phase of the talks would be difficult.
前往巴黎参加有关叙利亚内战的国际会议的国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)也承认，下一阶段的谈判会很艰难。
“While implementation is an important step, the next phase poses a far greater challenge,” Mr. Kerry said in a statement.
克里在一份声明中表示，“虽然协议的实施迈出了重要一步，下一阶段的挑战却要大得多。”
The interim agreement is, in effect, an elaborate pause button that provides a basis for pursuing a more far-reaching accord. It adds at least several weeks to the time Iran would need to acquire enough enriched uranium for a bomb if it decided to pursue a military option, but it can be reversed if either side changes its mind.
该临时协议实际上是一个精心制作的暂停按钮，可以为达成更深远的协议奠定基础。如果决定采取军事行动，伊朗需要时间来获得足够多的浓缩铀制造炸弹，该协议至少把这样的准备时间延长了几周，但如果某一方改变了主意，该协议可能会被推翻。
Under the interim deal, Iran agreed to stop enriching uranium beyond 5 percent, a level that would be sufficient for energy production but would require further enrichment to make a bomb. Iran’s stockpile of uranium enriched to 20 percent, a step toward weapons-grade fuel, would be diluted or converted to oxide so that it could not be readily prepared for military purposes.
根据临时协议，伊朗同意停止浓度高于5%的铀浓缩活动，这个浓度足以用于能源生产，但却需要经过进一步浓缩才能用于制造炸弹。伊朗储备了离武器级燃料更近一步的20%浓缩铀，这些铀将会被稀释，或转化为氧化物，以此加大它们被用于军事用途的难度。
Iran also agreed not to install any new centrifuges, start up any that were not already operating, or build new enrichment facilities. The agreement does not, however, require Iran to stop enriching uranium to a low level of 3.5 percent, or to dismantle any existing centrifuges.
伊朗还同意不安装任何新的离心机，不启用任何已经停止运行的离心机，也不建设新的浓缩设施。但该协议没有要求伊朗停止将铀浓缩至3.5%的活动，也没有要求该国拆除现有离心机。
American officials said they would stop the promised sanctions relief — worth between $6 billion and $7 billion, according to the White House — if Iran did not fulfill the interim accord. A senior administration official noted that $4.2 billion of the relief consisted of Iranian oil revenue that has been frozen in foreign banks, which Tehran will now be allowed to retrieve.
美国官员表示，如果伊朗没有履行该协议，他们会停止已承诺的制裁减免举措。据白宫透露，制裁减免举措价值60亿美元（约合363亿元人民币）至70亿美元。一名高级政府官员指出，价值42亿美元的减免政策包含冻结在外国银行的伊朗石油收入，如今，德黑兰方面将获准取回这些收入。
But the sums are to be meted out in 180-day installments that could be halted if Iran violated the interim accord. The first installment of $550 million is to be paid at the start of February.
不过，制裁减免将在180天内分期兑现，如果伊朗违反临时协议，兑现过程可能会中止。第一期减免价值5500万美元，将在2月初兑现。
Seeking to defend the agreement against hard-liners at home, Iran’s deputy foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, also highlighted the reversibility of the agreement.
为了说服国内的强硬派支持协议，伊朗副外长阿巴斯·阿拉齐(Abbas Araghchi)还强调了协议的可逆性。
“As this game is played in our court, we cannot lose,” he said on Iranian state television on Sunday. “Nuclear enrichment is our right.”
上周日，阿拉齐在伊朗官方电视台表示，“这场游戏的主场在我们这里，我们不可能输。核浓缩是我们的权利。”
Mr. Araghchi said that Iran would comply with the interim agreement by removing the connections between the networks of centrifuges that have been used to enrich uranium to 20 percent, so that they can enrich only to 5 percent.
阿拉齐说，伊朗会遵守临时协议，取消用于制造20%浓缩铀的离心机网络之间的关联，这样一来，该网络就只能将铀浓缩到5%。
“These interconnections can be removed in a day and connected again in a day,” he said.
他说，“离心机的内部连接可以在一日之间断开，也可以在一日之间重新连接。”
While there was progress on the nuclear issue, Mr. Kerry’s arrival in Paris on Sunday for a meeting of the so-called London 11, a group of nations that back the moderate Syrian opposition, underscored the enormous gulf that remains between the countries.
伊朗核问题虽然取得了进展，克里于上周日抵达巴黎参加所谓“伦敦11国”(London 11)会议的事实却突显各国之间依然存在巨大分歧，“伦敦11国”是由温和支持叙利亚反对派的国家组成的一个集团。
The United States and its partners have found themselves on a different side of the Syrian conflict from Iran. While Washington has provided limited support to the opposition, Iran has gone much further, at considerable economic cost to itself, to help sustain President Bashar al-Assad’s hold on power in Syria.
美国及其伙伴国已经发现，在叙利亚冲突中，他们站在了伊朗的对立面。美国只给叙利亚反对派提供了有限的支持，伊朗的行动却比美国激进得多，该国不惜大量消耗自身经济，以便协助叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)维持其政权。
Since the interim accord to freeze much of Iran’s nuclear program was signed on Nov. 24, Iran has sent about 330 truckloads of arms and equipment through Iraq to Syria, according to American intelligence reports.
美方情报报告显示，自各方在去年11月24日签署冻结伊朗大部分核计划的临时意向以来，伊朗已通过伊拉克向叙利亚输送了约330卡车的武器和装备。
To the consternation of the United States, an air corridor over Iraq has emerged as a major supply route for Iran to send weapons — including rockets, antitank missiles, rocket-propelled grenades and mortars — to Damascus.
让美国惊慌的是，伊朗和大马士革之间已经出现一条经过伊拉克的空中走廊，它是伊朗向叙利亚输送火箭弹、反坦克导弹、火箭推进榴弹和迫击炮等武器的主要线路。
With the Assad government short of manpower, Iran has persuaded Hezbollah, the Lebanese militant group, to join the fight and encouraged Iraqi Shiite militias to do the same. It is also recruiting hundreds of Shiites in Yemen and Afghanistan for combat duty in Syria, American officials said.
美国官员说，由于阿萨德政府缺少人力，伊朗已劝说黎巴嫩武装组织真主党(Hezbollah)加入叙利亚的战斗，并鼓励伊拉克的什叶派(Shiite)民兵组织参战。伊朗还在也门和阿富汗招募数以百计的什叶派民兵，让他们去叙利亚参与作战任务。
In a news conference on Sunday, Mr. Kerry said that he had raised the Syrian conflict with the Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif. For instance, he said, Iran’s refusal to accept the American view that the goal of a coming peace conference on Syria should be to organize a transitional government that does not include Mr. Assad has made it impossible for Iran to participate in the conference, to be held in Switzerland.
在周日的新闻发布会上，克里表示，他已向伊朗外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)提出了叙利亚冲突问题。他说，举例来说，伊朗拒绝接受美国的观点，因此就无法参加即将在瑞士举行的叙利亚和平会议。按照美方的观点，此次会议的目标应该是组建一个将阿萨德排除在外的过渡政府。
But Mr. Kerry made clear that cementing a nuclear deal had been a much higher priority than trying to change Iran’s position on Syria.
不过，克里明确表示，与设法改变伊朗对叙利亚问题的立场相比，巩固伊朗核协议一事在美国一直享有高得多的优先级别。
“Yes, I have raised the subject” of Syria, he said. “But we’ve been so focused and so intent on the nuclear file that we have not dug into it in any appreciably substantive way at this time.”
他说，“是的，我提到了叙利亚问题。不过这次，我们对核问题可谓一心一意，志在必得，因此就没有以任何显著的实质性方式来探究叙利亚问题。”
“Next time I see him, I certainly will re-raise the issue,” Mr. Kerry added, referring to Mr. Zarif. “I don’t sit around and wait with bated breath or any high expectations that there is going to be a sudden shift of heart on that.”
克里还说，“下次见到他，我一定会重提这个问题。我不会干坐着，屏息等待伊朗在这个问题上突然改变心意，也不会对这一点有什么过高的期望。”克里话中的“他”指的是扎里夫。