BAGHDAD — Iraq’s biggest oil refinery fell to Islamic extremists Wednesday morning, after army helicopter gunships failed to beat back an attack on the facility 130 miles north of Baghdad, according to refinery workers, eyewitnesses and an Iraqi army officer who fled the scene.
巴格达——伊拉克最大的炼油厂周三早上被伊斯兰极端分子攻陷，炼油厂位于巴格达以北130英里（约200公里）的地方，军队的武装直升机未能击退极端分子对这个设施的进攻，多名目击者以及从现场逃出来的伊拉克军官称。
The facility at Baiji is the first operating refinery to fall to the fighters of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, who have swept through much of northern Iraq and had surrounded the refinery in Baiji for the past week, battling with a battalion of the Iraqi Army that had been backed up by air support. The capture of the refinery would provide a potentially rich source of income for ISIS, which already profits from its control of oil resources in eastern Syria.
这家位于拜伊吉的炼油厂是落入伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）武装分子之手的第一座运行中的炼油厂，ISIS的武装分子已经横扫了伊拉克北部大部分地区，他们在过去一周里包围了拜伊吉的这座炼油厂，与一个得到空中支持的伊拉克军队作战。拿下这家炼油厂为ISIS提供了一个潜在的丰厚收入来源，他们已经从自己对叙利亚东部石油资源的控制中获得利益。
An Iraqi military spokesman, Gen. Qassim Atta, flatly denied that the Baiji refinery had fallen in a televised statement that he made hours after ISIS fighters had apparently taken over the refinery.
伊拉克军方发言人卡西姆·阿塔上将(Gen. Qassim Atta)在通过电视播放的一份声明中，断然否认拜伊吉炼油厂失守的消息，声明是在ISIS武装分子看来已经接管了该炼油厂数小时之后做出的。
“Baiji is now under control of our security forces, completely,” General Atta said, appearing on Iraqiya, the state television channel.
阿塔在伊拉克国家电视台(Iraqiya)上说，“拜伊吉现在完全在我方安全力量的控制之下。”
Reports from Baiji sharply contradicted that assessment. A refinery worker who gave only his first name, Mohammad, reached by telephone, said that the refinery had been attacked at 4 a.m. and that workers had taken refuge in underground bunkers. In the course of the fighting, 17 gas storage tanks were set ablaze, although it was not clear by which side. After taking heavy losses, the troops guarding the facility surrendered and at least 70 were taken prisoner, he said.
从拜伊吉传来的消息与这一说法截然相反。一位通过电话联系上的炼油厂工人只给出自己名叫穆罕默德(Mohammad)，他说，炼油厂在凌晨4点遭到袭击，工人们都躲进了地下掩体。在交战过程中，有17个储油罐被点燃，但不清楚是哪一方将其点燃的。他说，守卫这家炼油厂的军队在遭受了严重损失后投降，至少有70人被俘。
Refinery workers were sent home unharmed by the extremists, Mohammad said.
穆罕默德说，极端分子让炼油厂的工人回家，没有伤害他们。
A lieutenant from the battalion guarding Baiji, also reached by telephone and speaking on condition of anonymity, said he had fled his unit when it became clear that it would not be able to hold out against ISIS forces.
通过电话还联系上了守卫拜伊吉的部队中的一名中尉，在不具姓名的条件下他说，他逃离了自己的队伍，因为可以清楚地看出，军队无法抵御ISIS武装力量的攻击。
Eyewitnesses in the area also reported seeing ISIS checkpoints controlling access to the sprawling refinery area, and smoke rising over the complex from numerous fires.
该地区的其他多名目击者也称，看到ISIS的检查站控制着这个占地面积很大的炼油厂的进出，炼油厂多处起火，上空浓烟滚滚。
The attackers had besieged the refinery for the past week, after most of the surrounding Salahuddin Province fell under their control.
攻击者在过去一周将这座炼油厂围困，炼油厂周围的萨拉赫丁省的大部分地区此前已经被他们占领。
Foreign workers, including 50 from the German company Siemens and others employed by the security company Olive Group, had already been evacuated from the refinery, officials from both companies were quoted by news reports as saying. The complex, located about halfway between Baghdad and Mosul, Iraq’s second-largest city, includes the refinery — the largest in the country — as well as a 600-megawatt power plant, which supplies electricity to much of northern Iraq. The power plant had fallen to ISIS fighters earlier.
外国工人已从炼油厂撤离，其中包括50名德国西门子公司(Siemens)的工人以及安全公司橄榄集团(Olive Group)的雇员，媒体引用这两家公司管理人员的话称。这一设施位于巴格拉和伊拉克的第二大城市摩苏尔之间，它不仅包括伊拉克最大的炼油厂，还包括一个为伊拉克北部大部分地区供电的600兆瓦的发电厂，发电厂已在早些时候落入ISIS武装分子之手。
The refinery has the capacity to process 310,000 barrels of oil produced in northern Iraq, and provides refined products to 11 Iraqi provinces, including Baghdad.
这家炼油厂具有提炼31万桶产自伊拉克北部的石油的能力，向包括巴格达在内的11个伊拉克省份供应提炼产品。
General Atta, in his televised statement, said that Iraqi forces were continuing to fight in Baiji, and he praised the efforts of one air force pilot in particular in staving off the insurgents. “The air force is in the battle against them, with the support from the Golden Division of the Special Forces,” he said, referring to an elite unit that is reportedly under Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki’s direct control. “We will continue our operations and we will not let anyone from ISIS take one foot of our lands.”
阿塔在其电视声明中说，伊拉克军队继续在拜伊吉作战，他还专门表扬了一名空军飞行员为抵御叛军所做的努力。“空军正在与他们交战，特种部队的黄金分队(Golden Division of the Special Forces)也在支援他们，”他说，他指的是一个据称是由总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)亲自领导的精锐部队。“我们会继续战斗，不让ISIS的任何人占领一寸土地。”
General Atta also said that Iraqi forces were making gains in several areas in the northern provinces of Salahuddin and Nineveh, and had retaken the city of Tal Afar, which was reported to have fallen to the militants on Monday.
阿塔还说，伊拉克军队在北部省份萨拉赫丁和尼尼微的几个地方正在取得进展，夺回了据称在周一被武装分子攻陷的塔尔阿法尔市。
He depicted a military situation that contradicted most reports from the field so far, saying that Iraqi forces had regained the initiative. “Now our forces are becoming stronger,” he said. “Now we are the ones who are taking the initiative and making the attacks, instead of defending.” In a separate development, Indian officials have expressed concern about the fate of 40 Indian workers, who disappeared after ISIS forces overran Mosul, and about 46 Indian nurses working at a hospital in Tikrit that is under ISIS control. Indian newspapers on Wednesday quoted officials who said they were worried about the fate of citizens caught in the fighting in Iraq.
他描述的军事情况与迄今从战场传来的大多数消息相反，他表示伊拉克军队已重新获得主动权。他说，“我们的部队现在正在变得更强。现在是我们掌握了主动权，我们是在发动进攻而不是在防守。”另一个进展则让印度官员对40名印度工人的命运担忧，这些工人在ISIS武装力量占领了摩苏尔之后失踪，印度官员也担心46名在提克里特一家医院工作的印度护士的情况，那里已被ISIS控制。印度报纸周三援引官员的话说，他们为那些陷入伊拉克战火的印度公民的命运感到担忧。
“Indian workers in Mosul disappeared, probably kidnapped by ISIS,” said Yassin al-Ma’amouri, the head of the Iraqi Red Crescent Society. “Nobody knows anything about them.”
“在摩苏尔的印度工人失踪了，可能是被ISIS绑架了，”伊拉克红新月会(Red Crescent Society)会长亚辛·阿尔-马阿穆里(Yassin al-Ma’amouri)说，“没有人知道他们的消息。”
Mr. Ma’amouri said Red Crescent workers had visited the Indian nurses at the hospital in Tikrit and had found them in good condition. “Nine of them are afraid to stay here, the rest are fine,” he said. “We visited them, gave them phone cards to call their families, gave them food, pocket money.”
马阿穆里说，红新月会的员工曾在提克里特的医院里见到了印度护士，他们的状态不错。他说，“有9个人害怕呆在那里，但其他人都还好。我们看望了他们，给他们发了电话卡以便给家人打电话，给了他们食物和一些零用钱。”
“They are working in the hospital now and feel fine, but on the other hand we don’t know the reaction of those gunmen of ISIS,” he added.
他还说，“他们目前在医院工作，感觉还好，但是从另一方面来看，我们不知道ISIS的武装分子会怎么反应。”