ERBIL, Iraq — THE situation in Iraq today is perilous, particularly for Sunni Muslim Arabs. Their prospects for inclusion in Iraq’s government and fair treatment from it have been declining since 2010, when Iraqiyya, the nonsectarian coalition to which we belonged, drew more votes than any other parliamentary bloc but was denied a chance to form a government. We might not have succeeded, but letting us try would have built public trust in democracy.
伊拉克埃尔比勒——伊拉克当今局势凶险，尤其是对信仰伊斯兰教逊尼派的阿拉伯人来说。他们被吸纳到伊拉克政府当中，并受到政府公平对待的希望，自从2010年以来就不断破灭，那时不分教派的政治联盟，也就是我们所属的“伊拉克民族运动”(Iraqiyya)赢得的选票，超过了议会中的任何一个集团，然而却没有得到组建政府的机会。我们未必能够成功，但是让我们去尝试一下，就能在公众中树立起对民主的信任。
Instead, Iran and the United States used their influence to insist that Nuri Kamal al-Maliki remain prime minister. A sectarian-minded Shiite Muslim with authoritarian tendencies, he also pressured Iraq’s judiciary to decide in his favor. Since then, Mr. Maliki has detained thousands of Sunnis without trial; pushed leading Sunnis out of the political arena by accusing them of terrorism; stopped paying members of the Sunni Awakening, the movement that fought Al Qaeda in Iraq in 2007; and labeled all Sunnis as terrorists.
然而伊朗和美国运用它们的影响力，坚持让努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)担任总理。马利基是一个有着威权主义倾向，教派心态深重的什叶派穆斯林，他也曾迫使伊拉克司法系统做出对他有利的判决。从那时以来，马利基未经审判就关押了数以千计的逊尼派人士，他还指控逊尼派领导人物与恐怖主义有染，以此将他们赶出政治舞台。马利基还停止向“逊尼派觉醒”运动(Sunni Awakening)的成员发饷，该运动在2007年时，曾在伊拉克与基地组织(Al Qaeda)作战。他给所有的逊尼派都打上了恐怖分子的标签。
A request by provincial councils in Salahuddin, Diyala and Nineveh to hold votes on how to reorganize as more autonomous regions — as the Constitution allows — was rejected, and for a year peaceful Sunni protests were met by violence. As Iraqi security forces killed dozens of unarmed protesters, Mr. Maliki again bent the judiciary to his will, leaving Sunnis to feel they could not receive justice.
萨拉赫丁、迪亚拉、尼尼微省的地方政府曾计划依照宪法的规定举行投票，决定该怎样重组成自治程度更高的行政区。然而这番尝试却遭到回绝，在长达一年的时间里，逊尼派的和平抗议都受到了暴力打压。伊拉克安全部队杀害数十名手无寸铁的示威者之时，马利基再次让司法体系屈从于他的意志，让逊尼派感到正义无法伸张。
Now the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria has burst onto the stage well organized and funded: In Falluja early this year, then Mosul last month, it seized territory, claiming to defend Sunnis against Mr. Maliki’s Iranian-backed government.
现在，组织周密、资金充裕的“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）跃上舞台，今年年初在费卢杰，上个月到了摩苏尔。它攻城掠地，自称是在保护逊尼派，不受由伊朗支持的马利基政府的侵害。
The group’s ideology is a perversion of Islam and an affront to our culture. Yet the group gets local support. The Sunni tribes defeated Al Qaeda in Iraq, its predecessor, less than a decade ago. Today, they cooperate with ISIS (which now calls itself the Islamic State) — not as fanatics, but because they see it as the lesser of two evils, compared with Mr. Maliki.
这个组织的意识形态扭曲了伊斯兰教，是对我们文化的侮辱。然而这个组织却得到了地方的支持。不到十年前，逊尼派部落在伊拉克击败了基地组织，也就是ISIS的前身。然而现在，它们却在与ISIS合作——现在ISIS已经开始直接自称“伊斯兰国”了。之所以支持，并不是因为它们变成了疯狂的极端派，而是因为两害相权取其轻，ISIS比马利基好一些。
Meanwhile, the government murders Sunni detainees and bombs civilian areas. The killing of Sunnis by Iranian-backed Shiite militias and the presence of Iranian military advisers on the ground deepen suspicion that Iraq’s government serves Iran, not Iraqis. This pushes more Sunnis toward ISIS, increasing the threat it poses to Iraq’s people and neighbors.
与此同时，马利基的政府还杀害了被关押的逊尼派，并轰炸了平民聚居区。伊朗支持的什叶派武装组织杀害逊尼派的做法，以及伊朗军事顾问在伊拉克当地的活动，让人们愈发感觉，伊拉克政府是在为伊朗服务，而不是为伊拉克人服务。这种怀疑将更多逊尼派推入了ISIS的怀抱，加大了ISIS对伊拉克人及邻国构成的威胁。
But Iraqis can change that. First, we need a new prime minister. The Shiite parties must nominate a replacement for Mr. Maliki; there are a number of capable candidates. Iraqi politicians also must agree on a new balance between central authority and regional autonomy. The formula should include arrangements satisfactory to Iraq’s Kurds, who already have considerable local power; increased decentralization for the rest of the country; and a new arrangement for managing and sharing the proceeds of Iraq’s natural resources, particularly oil. Any agreement must include amnesty for the tens of thousands of Sunnis detained without trial, the release from detention of the Sunni politician Ahmed al-Alwani, the end of the counterproductive de-Baathification program, and the repealing of the counterterrorism law, which has been used as a pretext to arrest Mr. Maliki’s Sunni rivals.
不过伊拉克人能够改变这种局面。首先，我们需要一位新总理。什叶派政党必须提名一个代替马利基的候选人，而具备能力的人选并不少。伊拉克政界也必须就中央政府权力与地方自治之间的平衡达成共识。中央地方间的权力安排，必须包括能让伊拉克库尔德人满意的规定，他们现今已经有了相当的地方权力；需要加大全国其他地区的分权力度；也需要采取新的安排，来管理和分配伊拉克自然资源，尤其是石油的收入。无论达成怎样的共识，都需要赦免成千上万未经审判就遭到关押的逊尼派，释放在押的逊尼派政治人物艾哈迈德·阿尔瓦尼(Ahmed al-Alwani)，停止适得其反的肃清复兴社会党的运动，废除反恐法，因为它已经成了逮捕马利基的逊尼派对手的借口。
In addition, Parliament must reverse Mr. Maliki’s politicization of the security forces and establish new local forces to safeguard the population in Sunni areas, modeled after the Kurdish pesh merga. Only Sunni forces, with local support, can defeat ISIS in the areas it has seized.
除此之外，国会也必须逆转马利基推动的安全部队政治化趋势，仿照库尔德武装“敢死军”(pesh merga)的形式，建立新的地方部队，保障逊尼派地区民众的安全。只有得到地方支持的逊尼派武装，才能在ISIS攫取的区域击败ISIS。
The only armed forces permitted in Iraq would be those officially sanctioned by the government. ISIS would be banned as a terrorist group; so would Iranian-backed Shiite militias like Asaib al-Haq, Kataib Hezbollah and the Badr Corps.
在伊拉克，只有得到政府批准的武装部队才能存在。ISIS将被列为恐怖组织受到禁止，伊朗支持的什叶派武装组织，如“正义联盟”(Asaib al-Haq)、“真主旅”(Kataib Hezbollah)、“巴德尔旅”(Badr Corps)也要被取缔。
America’s support is crucial. A senior American official — someone who has worked with our politicians, tribes and reconcilable insurgent groups — should be appointed to reach out to Iraqi Sunni leaders in and outside the country. We also need assistance to reform the Iraqi security forces, in which America invested so heavily. The framework remains, but the command and control structure must be restored. Americans can also help vet Sunni recruits for the local forces.
美国的支持至关重要。应当委派一位与伊拉克政界、部落，以及愿意合作的反叛团体交往过的美国高级官员，与伊拉克国内外的伊拉克逊尼派领导人物进行接触。我们也需要外界帮助改革美国倾注过极大投入的伊拉克武装部队。组织结构仍保持原状，但指挥和控制结构必须重建。美国也可以帮助审查地方武装招募的逊尼派兵员。
Lastly, a regional conference should address the threat to nation-states like Iraq caused by nonstate forces like the ISIS and Shiite militias. Another concern is the hundreds of thousands of displaced Iraqis. The government has given help to displaced Shiites but not to Sunnis, who have gotten help from Saudi Arabia and the Kurdish regional government.
最后，应当举行地区性的大会，应对非国家势力，如ISIS和什叶派武装，对伊拉克这样的民族国家所构成的威胁。另一个令人担忧的问题是数十万名流离失所的伊拉克人。流离失所的什叶派得到了政府的帮助，但是逊尼派却没有，他们转而得到了沙特阿拉伯，以及库尔德自治区政府的帮助。