LONDON — The Obama administration’s successful push for an accord that would temporarily freeze much of Iran’s nuclear program has cast a spotlight on the more formidable challenge it now confronts in trying to roll the program back.
伦敦——奥巴马政府成功推动了一项能临时冻结伊朗大部分核计划的协议，此事让众人的目光转向了它如今面对的一项更为艰巨的挑战，即如何削减伊朗的核计划。
For all of the drama of late-night make-or-break talks in Geneva, the deal that Secretary of State John Kerry and his negotiating partners announced early on Sunday was largely a holding action, meant to keep the Iranian nuclear program in check for six months while negotiators pursue a far tougher and more lasting agreement. By itself, the interim pact does not foreclose either side’s main options or require many irreversible actions — which was why the two sides were able to come to terms on it.
尽管事关成败的日内瓦深夜谈判极富戏剧性，但从很大程度上说，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)及其谈判伙伴周日一早宣布的协议仍然只是一种遏制行动，意味着让伊朗核计划在今后六个月里保持停顿状态，在此期间，谈判者将寻求签订更强硬、更持久的协议。就其本身而言，这份临时性的协议并没有排除各方的主要选择，也没有要求采取许多不可逆转的行动，这正是双方能够达成协议的原因。
That was also a reason for the sharp negative reactions the deal elicited on Sunday from two American allies, Israel and Saudi Arabia, who are deeply suspicious of Iranian intentions.
也是由于这个原因，协议在周日引发了以色列和沙特阿拉伯这两个美国盟友的激烈反弹，他们对伊朗的意图深感怀疑。
Named the “Joint Plan of Action,” the sweeping four-page agreement allows Iran to preserve most of its nuclear infrastructure, and along with it the ability to develop a nuclear device. Iran can keep its uranium-enrichment centrifuges, but may not put any more into service. It can go on enriching uranium to a low level, though it must convert its more highly enriched uranium to a less useful form. It is not obliged to dismantle or convert a heavy-water reactor it is building, though it must stop adding components to it. And it must allow closer international monitoring of its nuclear program.
这份四页的《联合行动计划》(Joint Plan of Action)内容广泛，不仅允许伊朗保留大部分核设施，还允许它保留研制核装置的能力。伊朗可以保留其铀浓缩离心机，只是不能再增加离心机。它可以继续浓缩低浓度的铀，只是必须把浓度更高的浓缩铀转化为浓度较低的材料。伊朗不必拆除或转化一座在建的重水反应堆，只是必须停止额外的扩建。此外，伊朗必须允许国际社会对其核计划进行更密切的监视。
For its part, the United States keeps in place the core oil and banking sanctions it has imposed, though Iran would get some relief, including access to some of its frozen oil revenue.
就美方而言，美国将维持核心的石油禁运和金融制裁措施，只是会有所缓和，包括允许伊朗获得部分被冻结的石油收益。
The questions that the United States and Iran need to grapple with in the next phase of their nuclear dialogue, if they want to overcome their long years of enmity, are more fundamental.
如果美伊希望化解双方多年的敌意，双方还得在下一阶段的核对话中就一些更根本的问题进行博弈。
“Now the difficult part starts,” said Olli Heinonen, the former deputy director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Even the planned duration of the comprehensive follow-up agreement is still up in the air.
国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)前副总干事奥利·海诺宁(Olli Heinonen)说，“困难的部分现在开始了。”各方甚至还没有确定，全面后续协议将会有多长的期限。
Iran’s program to enrich uranium also needs to be dealt with in detail. The Obama administration has made clear that it is not prepared to concede at the start that Iran has a “right” to enrich uranium. But the interim deal, reflecting language proposed by the American delegation, says the follow-up agreement would provide for a “mutually defined enrichment program with practical limits and transparency.”
伊朗的铀浓缩计划还需要具体的应对措施。奥巴马政府曾明确表示，从一开始就不打算做出让步，不打算承认伊朗“有权”进行铀浓缩。然而，根据体现了美国代表团意见的临时协议，后续协议将提供一项“由双方定义的铀浓缩计划，它将受到切实可行的限制，具备透明度”。
So the question appears to be not whether Iran will be allowed to continue enriching uranium, but rather what constraints the United States and its negotiating partners will insist on in return, and how large an enrichment program they are willing to tolerate. The interim accord makes clear that it must be consistent with “practical needs.” Iran and the United States are likely to have very different ideas of what those needs are.
因此，问题似乎并不是伊朗会不会获准继续进行铀浓缩，而是美国及其谈判伙伴会坚持什么样的铀浓缩约束条件，以及它们愿意容忍多大规模的铀浓缩计划。临时协议清楚地表明，铀浓缩活动必须与“实际需求”相一致。然而，关于这些需求的具体内容，伊朗和美国可能会有截然不同的看法。
“This, of course, will be one of the central issues in the negotiations for a comprehensive agreement,” said Gary Samore, who served as senior aide on nonproliferation issues on the National Security Council during the Obama administration and is now president of United Against Nuclear Iran, an organization that urges that strong sanctions be imposed on Iran until it further restricts its nuclear efforts.
“当然，这会是全面协议谈判当中的关键问题之一，”曾在奥巴马政府担任美国国家安全委员会(National Security Council)防扩散问题高级助手的加里·萨莫尔(Gary Samore)说。他现在是反对伊朗核计划联合会(United Against Nuclear Iran)的主席，该组织敦促对伊朗施加严厉制裁，直至其进一步约束自己的核活动。
“We will want very small and limited,” Mr. Samore said, referring to Iran’s enrichment efforts. “They want industrial scale.”
“我们希望它很小、很有限，”萨莫尔指的是伊朗的铀浓缩活动，“他们想要的却是工业规模。”
The negotiators will confront other difficult questions regarding elements of a comprehensive agreement that would be difficult to reverse. Will the underground Fordo enrichment plant have to be shut down? Will the heavy-water reactor that Iran is building near the town of Arak, which could produce plutonium for weapons, have to be dismantled or converted into a light-water reactor that is not useful for weapons development?
关于一份不可逆转的全面协议应该包括哪些内容，谈判人员会面临其他一些难题。福尔多地下铀浓缩工厂必须关停吗？伊朗正在阿拉克市附近修建的重水反应堆可以生产用于武器的钚，这个反应堆是必须拆除，还是该转化成不能用于武器研发的轻水反应堆呢？
The interim deal “did not do enough to narrow down the limitations that will be in a final deal,” said David Albright, the president of the Institute for Science and International Security.
科学和国际安全研究所(Institute for Science and International Security)所长戴维·奥尔布赖特(David Albright)说，临时协议“在细化最终协议将会包含的限制条款方面做得不够”。
Hoping to reassure Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, who called the easing of sanctions on Iran “a historic mistake,” President Obama told him that the United States would press for a comprehensive solution to the Iranian nuclear question in the months ahead.
奥巴马总统希望安抚以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)，于是告诉后者，美国会在接下来的几个月里督促达成一个解决伊朗核问题的全面方案。内塔尼亚胡称，放松对伊制裁是“一个历史性错误”。
Some analysts said that hammering out a comprehensive solution seems so onerous that there may never be an enduring accord but only a succession of partial agreements. Even if a more comprehensive agreement is never reached, experts say, a limited agreement can still be useful.
一些分析人士称，敲定全面解决方案的任务显得十分繁难，或许永远都不会出现一项持久协定，而只会有一系列局部协议。一些专家称，即便永远达不成更全面的协议，有限协议也依然有用。
The interim deal includes improved verification, constraints on Iran’s installation of new centrifuges, and the requirement that Iran dilute its existing stock of uranium enriched to 20 percent, or else convert it to oxide, a less readily used form. Moreover, the cap imposed on Iran’s stockpile of uranium enriched to 5 percent would increase the time that Iran would need to make a dash for a bomb, adding several weeks or perhaps a month. “This may seem a small time,” Mr. Albright said. But because the interim deal also includes provisions that would make it easier to spot cheating swiftly, the added time “would be significant,” he said.
前述临时协议包括更完善的核查机制，对伊朗安装新离心机设定了限制，同时要求伊朗对已有的20%浓缩铀库存进行稀释，要不就将其转化成更不利于使用的氧化物。此外，协议对伊朗可拥有的5%浓缩铀库存设定了上限，由此将会增加伊朗突击研制核弹所需的时间，使之延长几个星期，甚或是一个月。“看样子，这或许只是一小段时间，”奥尔布赖特说。但他表示，因为临时协议同时包含了能更容易地快速识别欺骗行为的条款，延长的时间“具有重要意义”。
Mr. Kerry said on Sunday that he was as committed to “the really hard part,” obtaining a comprehensive follow-up agreement, “which would require enormous steps in terms of verification, transparency and accountability.” Speaking in London before a meeting with William Hague, the British foreign secretary, he said, “We will start today, literally, to continue the efforts out of Geneva and to press forward.”
克里周日表示，自己将以同样的专注应对“真正困难的部分”，以期达成一项全面的后续协议，“这需要在核查、透明度和问责方面采取重大举措”。同英国外交大臣威廉·黑格(William Hague)举行会面前，他在伦敦说，“确确实实地说，我们今天就会开始在日内瓦协议的基础上继续努力，向前推进。”